REYNOLDS  HISTORICAL 
GENEALOGY  COLLECTION 


ALLEN  COUNTY  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  1833  00729  0346 


Digitized  by 

the  Internet  Archive 

in  2014 

https://archive.org/details/publicationsofbe07bedf 


PUBLISHED  IN  CONJUNCTION  WITH  THE  ARCHITECTURAL  AND 
ARCHAEOLOGICAL  SOCIETY   FOR  THE  COUNTY    OF  BUCKINGHAM. 

THE     PUBLICATIONS  OF 
THE  BEDFORDSHIRE 
HISTORICAL  REC- 
ORD SOCIETY 
VOLUME 

VII 

V.  7 


VUS  NE  POEZ  REN  FERE  OUTRE 
LE  RECORD  KE  EST  VOSTRE  GARANT." 
LOUTHER:    HEREFORD    EYRE,  1292. 


PUBLISHED  BY  THE  SOCIETY  AT  THE 
OLD  HOUSE  IN  ASPLEY  GUISE  MCMXXIII 


BED  FQRP&H  IBM 


HISTORICAL    RECORD  SOCIETY 


OFFICERS   AND   COL'XCJL,    1922-  1923. 


PRESIDEIS* 


i£AD,  Esq.,  C.B. 
of  Bedford. 


T  FOWL  Eft,  C.H.E.. 


J.P 


KCV.  'F.  F»  HQKT. 
DR.  J.  E.  MORRIS, 


JP 


O.  WIL  LI  A  MS,  Esq..  J.P. 


Extract  prom  Rule  12  :- 


tiv.  person  eg  ay  Lecocr.e  a 


THE  BEDFORDSHIRE 
HISTORICAL  RECORD 
SOCIETY 


ABBREVIATIONS    AND  SYMBOLS. 


B.H.R.S.  Bedfordshire   Historical   Record   Society:  Octavo 
Publications,  unless  marked  as  Quarto  Memoirs. 

D.B.  Domesday  Book. 

D.N.B.  Dictionary  of  National  Biography. 

dau.  daughter. 

Kg.  King. 

kt.  Knight. 

li.  libra  or  pound. 

N.E.D.  New  English  Dictionary. 

P.R.  Pipe  Roll. 

P.R.O.  Public  Record  Office. 

P.R.S.  Pipe  Roll  Society. 

pdn.  Pardon. 

R.  Roll. 

R.C.  Record  Commission. 

R.S.  Rolls  Series  of  Chronicles  and  Memorials,  and  other 
publications  of  the  Record  Office. 

s.  Son  or  Shilling,  according  to  context. 

Sh.  Sheriff. 

{     j        Deletions  by  the  Scribe. 

—    S  "i  « .Unreadable  Matter. 

[    ]  '    Additions  by  Editors. 


A  CALENDAR  OF  THE  PIPE  ROLLS 
OF  THE  REIGN  OF  RICHARD  I 
FOR  BUCKINGHAMSHIRE  AND 
BEDFORDSHIRE,   1189  -  1199. 

By  G.  HERBERT  FOWLER  and  MICHAEL  W.  HUGHES. 


CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Introduction. 

§i.    Nature  of  a  Pipe  Roll.  2 

2.  The  Audit  and  Auditors.  2 

3.  Pipe  Rolls  extant  and  printed.  3 

4.  Methods  of  Calendaring.  4 

5.  Dating  of  Pipe  Rolls.  5 

6.  Order  of  the  Account.  6 

7.  The  Sheriff's  Farm  and  Allowances.  7 

8.  Calculation  of  the  Farm.  9 

9.  Miscellaneous  Lands,  etc.  12 

10.  The  Eyres :  Amercements  and  Offerings.  13 

11.  Remitrnents  and  Offerings:  the  Central  Court.  14 

12.  Scutages  and  other  Casual  Revenue.  17 

13.  Escheat  Rolls.  18 

14.  Methods  of  the  present  Calendar.  20 

15.  1  Per  contra  '  Allowances.  21 

16.  Rearrangement  of  the  Entries.  23 

17.  '  Desperate  Debts.'  25 

18.  Chronology  of  the  period.  26 

19.  Explanation  of  the  Tables.  28 

i.    Abstract  of  the  Sheriff's  Farm. 

ii.  Abstract  of  the  Revenue. 

iii.  Distribution  of  the  Sections. 

iv.  Conspectus  Rotulorum. 

Tables  I.  to  IV.  30 

Calendar.  36 

Notes.  145 

Index  to  Map  (pp.  252/3).  253 

Appendix  on  Map  of  the  Hundreds.  256 

General  Index.  260 


2 


FORM    AND    NATURE    OF    A   PIPB  ROLL 


INTRODUCTION. 
§  i. 

A  single  sheet  or  '  membrane  ■  of  an  early  Pipe  Roll 
is  generally  formed  of  two  skins  of  parchment,  sewn 
together  to  form  a  membrane  about  16  inches  in  width, 
and  something  like  3  to  5  feet  in  length.  All  the  mem- 
branes which  were  passed  at  one  session  of  the  Ex- 
chequer are  stitched  together  at  the  head  to  form  a  File, 
and  constitute  the  Pipe  Roll  of  the  regnal  year 
concerned.* 

On  the  Pipe  Rolls,  or,  to  use  their  more  formal 
title,  the  Great  Rolls  of  the  Exchequer,  are  recorded 
the  accounts  which  were  presented  at  Michaelmas  to  the 
Exchequer  by  Sheriffs  or  other  responsible  Accountants, 
of  all  moneys  due  or  received  on  behalf  of  the  Crown 
from  the  Shires,  from  Honours,  and  such  like;  these 
moneys  issued  from  the  Royal  Demesnes  and  other 
estates  in  royal  hands,  from  the  profits  of  Justice,  and 
similar  sources.  For  easier  administration  two  smaller 
Shires  were  often  coupled  under  one  Sheriff;  Bucks, 
and  Beds,  were  so  coupled  from  (at  latest)  a  date  soon 
after  the  Conquest  till  1574. 

The  following  account,  intended  simply  to  make 
the  Calendar  more  intelligible  to  the  members  of  the 
two  Societies  which  have  joined  in  its  publication,  must 
be  taken  as  strictly  applicable  only  to  the  period  of 
Richard  the  First,  and  in  detail  only  to  the  two  Shires 
concerned. 

§  * 

When  the  Sheriff  presents  his  account  for  audit, 
the  chief  persons  whom  he  must  satisfy,  the  principal 
Barons  of  the  Exchequer,  are  : — (i)  the  Chief  Justiciar, 

a.  We  have  followed  conventional  and  official  usage  in  terming  the 
whole  File  of  Accounts  for  the  year  the  '  Pipe  Roll  '  of  that  year,  and  in 
calling  the  successive  sheets  (though  formed  of  two  or  even  three  skins)  the 
1  membranes  '  of  that  Roll,  described  by  their  official  numbers.  This  is  net, 
however,  the  universal  practice. 


THE  AUDIT  OF  THE  SHERIFF'S  ACCOUNT  3 

vice-gerent  of  the  realm  in  the  absence  of  the  King 
abroad,  and  head  of  the  great  judicial  system  devised 
by  the  first  two  Henries ;  (ii)  the  Chancellor,  keeper  of 
the  King's  seal  and  general  secretary  of  the  State,  whose 
clerks  do  the  secretarial  work  of  the  King;  (iii)  the 
Treasurer,  keeper  of  the  King's  Treasure  at  Winchester, 
and  now  the  chief  financial  officer,  with  his  colleagues, 
the  Chamberlains. 

The  details  of  procedure  at  the  audit  have  been 
fully  described  by  others,  and  need  not  be  repeated  here. 
The  chief  authority  is  the  Dialogus  de  Scaccario,  writ- 
ten between  1176  and  11 79  by  Richard  fitz  Nigel,  Bishop 
of  London  1189  to  1198,  and  himself  Treasurer  for 
about  40  years*;  this  is  readily  accessible  in  '  Select 
Charters  '°  and  in  the  authoritative  Oxford  edition.* 
The  whole  subject  has  been  excellently  summarised  by 
Lane  Poolee;  and  from  the  last  two  sources  references 
to  the  earlier  works  may  be  readily  obtained. 

§3- 

The  enrolment  of  the  audit  at  the  Exchequer  was 
in  duplicate;  besides  the  Great  Roll  which  formed  the 
Treasurer's  record,  the  Antigraph  or  Chancellor's  Roll 
was  prepared  simultaneously  for  the  Chancellor's  cus- 
tody by  his  special  scribe.  The  date  at  which  the  Pipe 
Roll  first  took  its  present  form  is  not  known ;  but,  as  its 
essential  function  is  to  record  the  Sheriff's  Farm  of 
Ancient  Demesne  of  the  Crown,  it  is  reasonable  to  sup- 
pose that  it  was  developed  from  a  pre-Conquest  fore- 
runner. An  outlying  survivor  of  the  earliest  Pipe  Rolls 
is  that  of  31  Hen.  I  (1130).  The  next  oldest  Roll  which 
has  been  preserved  is  that  of  2  Hen.  II  (11 56),  and 
from  that  date  the  series  is  nearly  complete  up  to 
2  Will.  IV  (183 1-2).    Out  of  this  wealth  of  material, 

b.  He  levied  the  Assise  of  Royal  Demesnes  in  Bucks,  and  Beds,  in  1173. 

c.  Stubbs,  Bp.  W.  :  Select  Charters  (earlier  editions  have  a  complete  text). 

d.  Dialogus  de  Scaccario,  ed.  by  Messrs.  Hughes,  Crump,  and  Johnson, 
1902. 

e.  Pcv.  le,  R.  Lane  :  Exchequer  in  the  Twelfth  Century.  1912. 


4 


PIPE  ROLLS  ALREADY  PRINTED 


extending  over  nearly  700  years,  have  only  been  pub- 
lished in  their  entirety  f 

31  Hen.  I  (1130).    Record  Commission,  1833. 

2  Hen.  II  to  4  Hen.  II  (1156  to  11 58).  Record 
Commission,  1844, 

5  Hen,  II  to  33  Hen.  II  (1 159  to  1 187).  Pipe 
Roll  Society,  1884  to  191 5. 

1  Ric.  I  (1189).    Record  Commission,  1844. 

26  Hen.  HI  (1242).    Yale  University,  1918. 

In  addition,  the  Chancellor's  Roll  for  3  John  (1201) 
was  printed  by  the  Record  Commission  in  1833.  The 
Pipe  Roll  Society,  founded  in  1883,  will,  it  is  hoped, 
publish  all  the  Rolls  of  the  xijth  century  in  course  of 
time;  but  it  produces  on  the  average  less  than  one  Roll 
a  year,  and  f  urnishes  a  Latin  text  which  requires  no  little 
study  for  its  apprehension.  Yet  the  contents  of  these 
Rolls  are  invaluable  to  every  side  of  early  English  his- 
tory, since  the  rights  of  the  Crown  cut  deeply  into  every 
man's  life;  for  nearly  half  a  century,  these  Rolls  are 
almost  the  only  source  of  official  information  which  has 
been  preserved  to  our  time;  they  are  assuredly  not 
interesting  to  read,  but  are  invaluable  to  the  historian 
in  search  of  facts.  The  constant  reference  made  by  our 
Notes  to  the  volumes  of  the  Pipe  Roll  Society  will  show 
that  these  records  are  of  the  first  importance  in  any 
attempt  to  re-create  the  local  history  of  the  period.  It 
is  most  important,  alike  for  general  and  for  local  history, 
that  they  should  be  produced  in  an  accessible  and  easily 
intelligible  form. 

§  4- 

The  best  method  of  achieving  this  with  a  view  to 
the  present  publication  has  been  the  subject  of  much 
consideration.  That  the  contents  of  the  Rolls  should 
be  printed  in  English  was  fairly  obvious;  that  they 
should  be  calendared  rather  than  verbally  translated  was 

f.  Some  Local  Record  Societies  have  published  early  Rolls  for  their 
Counties. 


i 


CALENDARING  AND  DATING   OF  PIPE  ROLLS  5 

indicated  on  the  score  of  expense ;  that  they  should  be 
arranged  in  the  form  of  an  intelligible  account  seemed 
to  be  advisable;  but  the  fact  that  many  entries  are  re- 
peated year  after  year  as  permanent  charges  or  irre- 
coverable debts  made  it  difficult  to  decide  upon  the  best 
method  of  presentation.  An  attempt  was  made  to  avoid 
the  yearly  repetition  of  standing  items  by  the  use  of 
reference  numbers  only,  but  the  result  was  clumsy  5  and 
would  have  been  hideous  typographically.  Another 
possibility  was  considered — to  publish  the  Rolls  of  (say) 
10  years  together,  and  to  bring  together  all  the  occur- 
rences of  each  item  in  turn ;  but  a  general  yearly  view  of 
revenue  and  account  would  then  have  been  impossible. 
Consequently  in  this  Calendar  a  compromise  has  been 
reached;  every  item  appears  under  its  proper  year,  and 
the  state  of  the  General  County  Account  is  easily 
grasped ;  further  (in  order  to  save  expense)  lengthy  items 
are  not  reprinted  in  full  each  year,  but  a  reference  back- 
ward is  made  to  an  entry  in  which  they  are  fully  set  out. 

§  5- 

Roll  35,  the  first  of  this  Calendar,  embodies  the 
Account  presented  at  Michaelmas,  Sep.  29,  11 89; 
although  it  is  termed  the  Pipe  Roll  of  the  first  year  of 
Richard  the  First  (1189-1190),  he  was  only  crowned  on 
Sep.  3;  consequently  it  includes  but  27  days  of  his 
reign,  and  with  that  exception  really  records  the  finance 
of  the  last  year  of  Henry  II.  It  is  therefore  not  so 
much  the  Roll  of  1  Ric.  I  as  the  Roll  which  came  into 
official  existence  at  Michaelmas  1189.  The  possibilities 
that  it  may  record  some  transactions  of  11 88,  or  that  the 
Sheriff  may  not  have  completed  his  account  till  1190, 
do  not  alter  that  fact.  Consequently  the  dates  appended 
to  Eyres,  Arrears,  etc.  in  the  Calendar  are  those  of  the 
Michaelmas  Account,  at  which  the  event  is  first  recorded ; 
and  we  submit  that  this  is  the  simplest  and  least  mis- 
leading way  in  which  to  date  Pipe  Rolls;  it  has  also  been 
applied  to  the  earlier  Rolls  in  the  Conspectus  below. 


6      TRADITIONAL  ARRANGEMENT  OF  THE  ACCOUNT 


The  date,  therefore,  of  the  making  of  a  Roll  is  the 
Michaelmas  of  each  regnal  year;  but  for  brevity  of  re- 
ference each  Roll  is  quoted  in  this  Calendar  by  its  offi- 
cial number  in  the  series  preserved  at  the  Public  Record 
Office;  and  the  Conspectus  below  furnishes  the  necessary 
details.  With  the  aid  of  the  scheme  of  numbers  and 
letters  (§6  and  §  14),  for  which  the  Editors  are  respon- 
sible, any  item  can  be  readily  traced  through  the  succes- 
sive years,  the  number  of  the  Roll  being  the  only  part  of 
the  reference  which  varies  from  year  to  year. 

While  the  Great  Roll  was  made  up  only  at  the 
Michaelmas  Account,  the  Sheriff  had  already  at  Easter 
made  a  Profer.  at  which  he  had  paid  over  such  moneys 
as  he  had  collected  up  to  then;  for  these  sums  he  re- 
ceived those  tallies,  which  are  frequently  noted  below 
and  at  Michaelmas  were  accepted  instead  of  cash. 

§  6. 

The  main  headings  of  the  Account  were  at  first 
rendered  in  a  traditional  order,  which  enables  them  at 
this  early  date  to  be  classified  and  numbered  for  easy 
reference.  But  many  of  the  headings  are  not  on  the 
Roll;  others  have  dropped  off  or  become  misleading  in 
course  of  time,  and  have  been  supplied  or  corrected  from 
previous  Rolls ;  for  the  form  in  which  they  appear  in 
the  Calendar  the  Editors  are  responsible. 

i.  Farm  of  the  Shires. 

ii.  Allowances  deducted  from  the  Farm. 

A.  Alms  to  religious  houses,  etc. 

B.  Tithe  from  royal  lands. 

C.  Disbursements    to    pensioners  [  Fixed 

and  others.  Allowances. 

D.  Lands  granted  to  monasteries, 

officials,  etc. 

E.  Disbursements  by  Writ.  j  Occasional 

F.  Disbursements   by   custom  of  Allowances< 

the  Exchequer. 


FARM    OF   THE  SHIRES 


7 


iii.  Farm  of  the  Burgh. 

iv.  Increment  of  the  Shires  :  Balance  of 
old  Farms. 

v.  Purprestures  and  Escheats. 

vi.  Arrears. 

vii.  Pleas  before  Justices  in  Eyre. 

viii.  Scutages.  ^  Casual 

ix.  Remitments  from  a  Central  Court.     |  Revenue. 

x.  Judaica. 

xi.  Goods  of  Felons  and  Fugitives. 

xii.  Manors  and  Burghs  separately  sum- 
moned. 

xiii.  Special  accounts  of  Escheats. 

xiv.  Addenda  (not  on  the  Sheriff's  Account 
of  the  Shires,  nor  on  the  Escheat 
Roll). 

§  7- 

i.  The  Farm  of  the  Shires  (Corpus  comitatuum) 
was  a  fixed  sum  for  which  the  Sheriff  was  officially  liable 
as  holding  the  royal  demesnes  and  certain  royal  per- 
quisites at  farm ;  out  of  the  profits  drawn  from  these  he 
paid  his  '  farm  '  or  composition  to  the  Exchequer,  and 
kept  the  difference  for  himself  or  bore  the  loss;  but  since 
large  sums  were  sometimes  offered  for  a  shrievalty,  we 
may  infer  that  losses  were  rare.  In  the  earlier  Rolls 
the  amount  of  the  farm  is  never  stated  explicitly;  it  is 
said  to  have  been  kept  on  a  special  Roll  (rotulus  exac- 
torius)  of  which  no  copy  has  been  preserved;  before  1197 
(when  it  first  appears  on  the  Roll)  the  amount  of  the 
r-arm  has  therefore  to  be  calculated  for  our  purposes. 
As  such  calculations  do  not  form  part  of  the  record 
proper,  they  are  all  brought  together  below  as  the  '  Ab- 
stract of  the  Farm  ';  the  methods  involved  in  them  will 
be  set  out  in  §  8  below. 

ii.  Allowances  are  credits  to  the  Sheriff  against  the 
gross  sum  of  his  farm,  and  are  of  several  kinds. 


8 


ALLOWANCES   TO  THE  SHERIFF 


ii.  A.  Fixed  Alms  (elemosine  constitute)  are  cash 
payments,  generally  to  religious  corporations,  made  by 
the  Sheriff. 

ii.  B.  Fixed  Tithes  on  royal  demesnes  (decime 
constitute)  do  not  occur  in  the  Sheriff's  account  for  Bucks, 
and  Beds,  at  the  dates  covered  by  the  Calendar. 

ii.  G.  Fixed  Disbursements  or  Liveries  (libera- 
tiones).  For  these  we  may  quote  the  Dialogus  :  "  Of 
liveries,  some  are  to  poor  men,  when  a  daily  penny  or 
two  or  more  are  assigned  by  the  King  to  anyone  for  food 
and  raiment  on  the  sole  prompting  of  charity.  Some, 
however,  are  made  to  servants  who  receive  them  as  a 
wage,  such  as  house-men,  musicians,  wolf-takers  and 
such."E  These  are  cash  payments  by  the  Sheriff  to  the 
grantee. 

ii.  D.  Lands  Granted  (terre  date)  to  religious  cor- 
porations or  private  individuals  have  been  subtracted 
from  those  for  which  the  Sheriff  is  responsible ;  as  he  no 
longer  receives  the  profits,  their  settled  annual  value  is 
allowed  to  be  deducted  from  his  Farm.  There  is  ap- 
parently no  cash  payment  in  these  cases  by  the  Sheriff 
to  the  grantee. 

ii.  E.  Disbursements  by  Writ.  Under  this  head 
are  included  expenses  for  things  which  the  Sheriff  had 
been  ordered  to  do;  such  are  repairs  to  castles,  gaols, 
and  royal  buildings.  These  were  only  allowed  properly 
at  the  Exchequer  when  vouched  by  the  production  of  a 
Writ  from  the  King;  but,  if  the  writ  was  proffered,  it  is 
not  always  recorded.  There  has  been  made  a  cash  pay- 
ment by  the  Sheriff. 

ii.  F.  Disbursements  by  Custom  of  Exchequer. 

Besides  the  foregoing,  certain  disbursements  by  the 
Sheriff  were  allowed  by  the  custom  of  the  Exchequer 
(per  legem  scaccarii)  without  a  corresponding  writ. 
Among  these  were  the  execution  of  '  justices  '  (sentences 

g.    Dialogus,  Oxford  edition,  127  (Bk.  ii,  ch.  vi). 


CALCULATION    OF   THE  FARM 


9 


pronounced  by  law)  and  '  judgments  '  (ordeals  by  iron  or 
water),  the  expenses  of  approvers,  the  conveyance  of 
treasure,  and  such  like.  The  conveyance  of  prisoners 
does  not  appear  to  be  mentioned  by  the  Dialogus;  in 
some  cases  on  our  Rolls  a  writ  is  vouched  for  this  ex- 
pense, in  others  not.  These  disbursements  were  also 
cash  payments  by  the  Sheriff. 


§8- 

Calculation  of  the  Farm  of  the  Shires.  As 

Dr.  Poole  points  out,  the  data  for  this  calculation  are  all 
negative ;  they  are  (till  1 197)  deductions  from  an  unspeci- 
fied sum  of  money.  In  order  to  arrive  at  the  Sheriff's 
balance  sheet  we  must  therefore  note  what  money  the 
Sheriff  pays  into  the  Exchequer,  what  money  he  is  ex- 
cused from  paying  by  the  Allowances  set  out  above,  and 
add  these  twro,  allowing  for  whatever  surplus  or  deficit 
may  be  shown  at  the  foot  of  the  Account  of  the  Farm. 
But  before  this  can  be  done,  we  have  to  ascertain  the 
Exchequer  values  of  the  moneys  involved.  Both  in  his 
payments  and  in  the  Allowances  some  moneys  are  marked 
in  the  Calendar  below  no.  (numero),  others  bl.  (bianco), 
and  in  other  entries  the  character  of  the  money  is  not 
specified.  In  order  to  arrive  at  the  Farm  of  the  Shires, 
the  method  of  reckoning  the  value  of  these  monies  must 
be  ascertained. 

The  Exchequer  wants  pounds  of  standard  silver; 
not  pounds  by  weight  of  coins  (paid  ad  pensum),  because 
tarnish  would  not  be  properly  reducible  to  pure  silver 
by  the  methods  of  smelting  then  known,  and  would  have 
to  be  skimmed  as  dross;  nor  will  the  Exchequer  accept 
pounds  of  240  pence  paid  by  tale  (numero),  for  this 
would  involve  loss  of  weight  by  face  wear.  In  theory, 
therefore,  every  pound  accounted  must  be  brought  up 
to  bullion  value  of  standard  or  '  white  5  silver  (bianco). 

All  payments  at  the  Exchequer  were  liable  to  assay 
on  the  spot  by  officials  employed  for  the  purpose  (the 


10  BLANCHING  OF  PAYMENT  MADE  BY  TALE 


Weigher,  the  Melter,  etc.),  if  the  standard  of  fineness 
were  suspected  or  if  the  coins  were  badly  defective  on 
the  average ;  the  Sheriff  must  make  good  such  deficiency 
below  bullion  value  as  was  shown  by  the  assay.  From 
the  whiteness  of  the  silver  ingot  produced  by  assay,  the 
correction  of  depreciated  value  thus  attained  is  termed 
the  blanching  of  the  money,  and  payments  in  bullion 
value  were  regarded  as  payments  in  white  or  blanch  sil- 
ver (bianco).  In  order,  however,  to  escape  the  delay  and 
trouble  of  endless  assays,  at  this  date  it  was  deemed 
sufficient  as  a  rule  that  vantage  money  of  a  shilling  in 
each  pound  (8d.  in  the  mark,  id.  in  the  ore)  should  be 
deducted  from  all  payments  by  tale  (no.,  numero)  in 
order  to  bring  them  up  to  bullion  value  (bl.,  bianco). 
Thus  in  35/i,  besides  his  bianco  payment,  the  Sheriff 
has  paid  95H.  16s.  6d.  numero;  but  this  will  not  be 
accepted  at  its  face  value ;  the  vantage  money  must  be 
deducted,  and  he  is  therefore  credited  with  only  91H. 
os.  8d.  on  this  payment. 

Turning  then  to  the  Allowances,  the  Fixed  Alms 
(iiA)  and  Fixed  Disbursements  (iiC)  were  cash  payments ; 
whether  the  Sheriff  actually  paid  full  value  or  not,  is  the 
affair  of  the  recipient,  not  of  the  Exchequer;  but  the 
payments  were  made  out  of  royal  moneys,  and  therefore 
must  be  brought  up  to  bullion  value.  These  payments 
are  not  specified  as  either  no.  or  bl.,  but  when  later  one 
of  these  items  becomes  allowed  against  a  bianco  account 
(35 /iiC / 2  transferred  to  37/iii/ia),  we  find  it  blanched 
before  being  allowed,  reduced  from  4H.  ns.  3d.  to 
4H.  6s.  8d.  The  disbursements  here  classified  as  iiE 
and  iiF  are  similarly  unspecified,  and  require  to  be 
blanched,  as  being  made  out  of  royal  cash.  Among  the 
Lands  Granted  (HD)  it  is  noticeable  that  those  marked 
no.  are  all  fairly  ancient  grants.  That  to  Woburn  is 
interesting;  it  was  originally  a  Fixed  Alms  in  Leighton,h 
a  cash  payment  and  therefore  liable  to  blanching;  in 
1 1 65  it  appears  for  the  first  time  among  Lands  Granted,1 

h.  P.R.,  2  Hen.  II.  Rec.  Com.,  21. 

i.  P.R.S.,  viii,  22. 


BALANCING  OF  TH3  FARM 


11 


but  the  method  of  payment  is  unspecified  till  1 193/4 
(39/iiD/i  below)  when  it  is  marked  numero.  Finally, 
when  at  last  in  1197  we  get  the  amount  of  the  Farm 
stated  on  the  Roll,  the  correct  totals  can  only  be  obtained 
by  blanching  all  items  not  marked  bianco.  While  this 
amount  is  not  specified  before  Roll  43,  it  appears  to  have 
stood  at  the  same  figure  for  a  long  time  past. 

In  the  *'  Abstract  of  the  Farm  *  below,  the  numero 
and  bianco  accounts  have  been  treated  separately,  as 
seems  to  have  been  done  at  the  Exchequer.  The  numero 
account  always  shows  a  surplus,  which  is  blanched  and 
is  used  to  reduce  the  deficit  on  the  bianco  account.  The 
result  may  show  a  '  debet  '  (debit  balance  forward) 
against  the  Sheriff,  which  may  be  expressed  numero 
(Rolls  37,  39,  41)  or  bianco  (Roll  44).  In  only  one  case 
has  the  Sheriff  a  surplus  bianco,  but  on  the  same  Account 
shows  a  much  larger  debet  numero  (Roll  38);  both  are 
carried  forward  to  the  next  year,  the  surplus  being  then 
credited  as  an  Allowance,  the  debet  running  on.  Any 
such  debets  of  a  previous  year  are  entered  separately 
from  the  current  farm.  In  11 55  the  settled  Farm  was 
already  the  same  as  in  Richard's  day.  In  11 30  the  farm 
numero  was  still  apparently  the  same  sum  of  108H.;  at 
any  rate  that  sum  was  paid  into  the  Treasury ;  but  instead 
of  payment  bianco  into  the  Treasury  as  in  our  Rolls,  the 
Sheriffs  in  that  year  paid  by  weight  (ad  pensum)  a  sum 
of  292H.  os.  8d.,  instead  of  the  369H.  19s.  nd.  of  our 
Rolls.  When  the  allowances  are  blanched  (3I i.  12s.  2d.) 
and  added  to  the  farm  ad  pensum,  their  sum  of  295H. 
12s.  iod.  is  short  by  74H.  7s.  id.  of  the  bianco  farm 
of  our  Rolls.  This  difference  proves  to  be  exactly 
7s.  2d.  on  every  hide  of  Ancient  Demesne  in  the  two 
Shires  (207I  hides),  and  appears  to  represent  an  early 
Increment  of  the  Farm.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  this  in- 
teresting result  will  be  tested  in  other  Counties. 


12 


THE  BURGH  AND  MISCELLANEOUS  LANDS 


!  * 

iii.  Farm  of  the  Burgh,  This  does  not  appear 
on  Roll  35,  but  on  Roll  36  (1190),  it  occurs  as  an  Allow- 
ance on  the  Farm  of  the  Shires,  the  burgesses  from  this 
date  paying  their  own  farm  bianco.  We  may  conclude 
therefore  that  up  to  this  date  the  Sheriff  had  levied  the 
40H.  and  included  it  in  his  farm.  The  charter  of 
Richard  I  to  the  Burgh  of  Bedford  seems  to  have  disap- 
peared, but  an  lnspeximus  of  Henry  IV  has  preserved 
its  tenour  and  e  lves  as  its  date  12  November  nSo,.1 
Though  it  does  not  mention  the  farm,  it  grants  to  the 
Burgesses  all  the  liberties  enjoyed  by  those  of  Oxford. 
The  usual  place  for  this  farm  would  be  under  our  Section 
xii,  but  we  have  left  it  in  the  Calendar  where  the  scribe 
enrolled  it. 

iv.  Increment  and  Balance.  The  amount  of  the 
Farm  of  the  Shire  could  be  increased  from  time  to  time, 
as  that  of  Bucks,  had  been  raised  by  ioli.  and  4  hawks 
(N/iv)  in  1 168;  such  addition  to  the  amount  was  termed 
the  Increment  of  the  Shire  (crementum  comitatus).  With 
this  is  generally  (but  not  invariably)  associated  any 
balance  due  on  Farms  of  earlier  years. 

v.  Purprestures  and  Escheats.  The  former  are 
generally  explained  as  encroachments  on  royal  posses- 
sions or  rights,  on  the  King's  forest  demesne  or  highway, 
and  such  like.  Escheats  are  mostly  regarded  as  lands 
held  in  chief  which  had  fallen  into  the  King's  hand 
by  attaint  for  treason  or  felony,  or  by  default  of  male 
heirs.  But  among  the  Escheats  appear  to  be  also  some 
small  parcels  of  land  which  had  been  held  f  de  Rege  '* 
at  Domesday  by  tenants  for  life  or  for  office ;  and  it  seems 
probable  that  while  the  Farm  of  the  Shires  (so  far  as 
land  was  concerned)  was  based  on  Ancient  Demesne, 
the  Purprestures  and  Escheats  included  not  only  what 

3.  Pearse,  W.  T. :  Records  of  the  Corporation  of  Bedford,  8-10.— Bedford, 
i£83,  Svo. 

k.    This  temporary  tenure  is  discussed  in  B.H.R.S.,  ^to.  Mem.  i,  67,  68. 


THE  EYRES 


13 


are  normally  known  as  Escheats,  but  also  all  other  lands 
which  fell  into  the  King's  hand.  At  first  all  lands  not 
of  Ancient  Demesne  were  enrolled  under  Purprestures  : 
the  term  Escheats  was  not  added  to  the  heading  till  1 175. 
After  all,  escheats  means  only  c  offal  5  (quod  excadet); 
the  Seneschal  should  feed  his  swine  with  "  eschetes  de 
grange/'  the  offal  of  the  grange.1 

vi.  Arrears.  On  our  Rolls,  these  are  debts  long 
overdu'e  from  former  Eyres,  or,  in  one  case,  transferred 
from  another  County.  They  will  be  dealt  with  in  the 
Notes  as  reached. 

§  IO- 

vii.  Eyres.  Under  William  I  and  William  Rufus, 
the  style  of  Curia  Regis — the  King's  Court — seems  to 
be  borne  only  by  the  group  of  magnates  and  churchmen 
who  assembled  round  the  King  when  he  wore  his  crown 
at  the  three  great  festivals,  Easter,  Whitsun,  and  Christ- 
mas. At  these  was  done  the  King's  Justice,  cases  in 
which  the  King  was  in  some  way  concerned,  as  distinct 
from  the  local  justice  done  in  the  courts  of  Shire  and 
Hundred.  Under  Henry  I  a  judicial  organisation  be- 
gins to  develop;  we  find  a  group  of  Justices  with  a  Chief 
Justiciar  at  their  head.  Occasionally,  some  of  these  men 
were  sent  into  the  Counties  to  hear  Pleas  of  the  Crown, 
cases  in  which  royal  authority  or  revenue  were  concerned  ; 
we  may  call  them  Justices  in  Eyre  (in  itinere)  though 
the  term  properly  belongs  to  a  somewhat  later  date ;  and 
we  seem  to  trace  them  in  Bucks,  and  Beds,  in  1130,  the 
Pipe  Roll  for  that  year  containing  records  of  pleas  held 
by  Ralf  Basset,  Justiciar  (died  circa  n  27)  and  after  him 
by  Geoffrey  de  Clinton  the  Treasurer. 

Before  the  end  of  the  reign  of  Henry  II,  the  judi- 
cial organisation  has  become  much  more  definite;  there 
is  a  permanent  tribunal  of  sworn  judges  expert  in  the 
law,  sitting  generally  but  not  always  at  Westminster;  the 
King  may  or  may  not  be  present  at  its  sessions,  but  it 


1.    Senes-chaucie  :  Roy.  Hist.  See,  1S90,  p.  114. 


14 


THE  EYRES 


is  capitalis  Curia  Regis — the  King's  Chief  Court.  The 
Eyre  system  was  now  well  developed;  for  example,  in 
1 179  twenty-one  Justices  travelled  on  four  circuits  of 
Eyres,  and  many  of  these  men  were  members  of  the 
Central  court ;  they  seem  to  have  dealt  mainly  with  Pleas 
of  the  Crown  and  with  the  newly  devised  civil  actions 
of  novel  disseisin,  mort  d'ancestor,  and  the  like.  The 
amercements  which  they  inflicted  were  entrusted  to  the 
Sheriff  for  collection,  and  therefore  appear  in  the  Pipe 
Rolls  under  the  names  of  the  Justices  concerned.  When 
a  fresh  Eyre  has  been  held  in  the  Shire,  its  record  is 
simply  added  at  the  foot  of  previous  entries;  the  Eyres 
therefore  appear  on  the  Roll  in  order  of  date,  and  this 
fortunately  helps  us  to  disentangle  the  various  items 
found  on  the  Rolls.  But,  sandwiched  among  the  entries 
of  Eyres,  are  blocks  of  entries  under  varying  titles,  which 
require  a  little  consideration — those  which  have  been 
brought  together  in  the  Calendar  under  classes  ix  and  x. 

Remitments  and  Offerings.  New  Promises  (de 
nouis  promissis),  which  first  appear  in  36/ixA,  at  any 
rate  do  not  belong  to  an  Eyre,  because  they  are  enrolled 
immediately  after  Scutages,  and  most  of  them  relate  to 
transactions  far  too  important  to  be  brought  before  a 
local  Eyre;  they  have  clearly  been  remitted  from  a  Cen- 
tral Court  for  collection  by  the  Sheriff  locally.  Of  the 
same  origin  appear  to  be 

Offerings  to  the  Court  through  the  Chancellor  (37/ixB, 
37/xB). 

Offerings  through  the  Archbishop  of   Rouen  (38/ixC, 

38/xcy. 

Offerings    through    the    Archbishop    of  Canterbury 
(40/ixD). 

New  Promises  through  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury 
(42/ixF). 

Besides  these,  the  origin  of  which  is  obvious,  occurs 
a  heading  '  Offerings  to  the  Court  '  (de  oblatis  curie, 


REMITMENTS   ANE  OFFERINGS 


15 


r»r  in  some  earlier  Rolls  do  placitis  curie),  which  is  often 
found  on  the  Roll  immediately  after  the  record  of  an 
Eyre ;  the  question  arises,  to  what  Court  were  these  offer- 
ings made,  for  the  court  of  Justices  in  Eyre  was  assuredly 
a  Curia  Regis,  though  not  capitalis  Curia  Regis. 

On  its  first  appearance,  a  new  Eyre  is  generally 
headed  "  New  Pleas  and  New  Agreements  before  " 
(per)  the  named  justices  of  that  Eyre.  The  subject- 
matter  of  the  business  first  detailed  under  this  heading 
seems  to  consist  of  cases  based  on  the  Verdicts  of  the 
Hundred  Courts,  presentments  such  as  appear  plenti- 
fully in  the  Eyre  Roils  already  printed  for  Beds.;  de- 
fault, estreated  pledge,  leave  to  agree,  detinue,  false 
claim,  disseisin,  failure  to  sue,  false  measure,  are  among 
the  commonest  cases ;  we  might  have  described  them  as 
Common  Pleas,  were  it  not  that  fines  on  the  Hundreds 
for  murder  are  included  among  them.  After  these,  fol- 
low directly  the  Offerings  to  the  Court,  to  which  no 
names  of  Justices  are  attached;  they  deal  with  much 
more  important  matters,  such  as  knights'  fees,  judaica, 
writs  of  Right,  wardship,  relief,  transference  of  a  plea 
from  the  local  court  to  a  King's  Court,  and  so  forth. 
We  may  fairly  conclude  that,  while  the  first  section,  that 
of  Pleas,  deals  with  local  matters  (which  are  being 
gradually  lifted  out  of  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Shire  and 
Hundred  Courts),  the  second  section,  that  of  Agreements 
or  Offerings  (so  far  as  it  relates  to  legal  matters),  deals 
with  matters  which  will  be,  have  been,  or  might  be, 
handled  by  the  capitalis  Curia  Regis.  With  this  view 
the  contemporary  authorities  seem  to  be  in  accord;  the 
Dialogus  indeed  does  not  sharply  contrast  the  two  sets 
of  cases,  but  it  handles  them  in  different  and  widely 
separated  sections.  After  describing  the  restoration  by 
Henry  II  of  the  Eyre  system,  broken  down  in  the 
troubled  times  of  Stephen,  Bishop  Richard  fitz  Nigel 
explains  that  "  the  money  penalties  on  delinquents  are 
carefully  rioted  on  the  Roll  of  the  Justices  in  Eyre,  and 
are  handed  to  the  Treasurer  publicly  when  the  Ex- 


16 


REMITMENTS    AND  OFFERINGS 


chequer  is  in  session  ....  The  Treasurer  causes  the  debts 
on  the  Rolls  thus  received  to  be  carefully  and  distinctly 
noted  on  the  Great  Roll,  county  by  county,  together 
with  the  causes  and  the  names  of  the  Justices,  so  that 
the  moneys  extracted  may  be  identified. "m  This  pass- 
age evidently  refers  to  our  first  section,  that  of  local 
pleas.  Later  he  proceeds  :  "  We  call  '  Pleas  *  (placita) 
those  money  penalties  into  which  delinquents  fall,  but 
'  Agreements  '  is  our  name  for  voluntary  offerings  " 
(conuenciones  uero  oblata  spontanea).11  Further  on,  the 
Bishop  expounds  these  latter  :  "  Know  therefore  that  of 
Offerings  to  the  King,  some  are  offered  in  rem,  some 
in  spem.  We  say  that  anything  is  offered  in  rem,  when 
the  King  receives  aught  and  the  offerer  consequently 
receives  from  the  King  that  for  which  he  made  offering; 
thus,  if  any  one  offer  to  the  King  voluntarily  iooli.  or 
loom,  for  some  liberty,  or  for  land  or  farm,  or  for  ward- 
ship of  a  minor  till  his  legal  age,  or  for  aught  else  which 
accrues  to  his  use  or  honour,  and  with  the  King's  assent 
he  receive  it  immediately  upon  his  offering  .  .  .  But 
offerings  are  said  to  be  made  in  spem,  when  any  one 
offers  a  sum  to  the  King  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining 
justice  for  himself  touching  land  or  rent — not  however 
in  order  that  the  plea  may  be  so  decided  (lest  you  blaze 
out  against  us  and  call  his  justice  venal)— but  rather  in 
order  that  it  may  be  decided  without  delay."0  These 
paragraphs  seem  to  deal  with  our  second  Section,  that 
of  Agreements  or  Offerings,  in  which  it  is  clear  that  the 
Justices  are  acting  essentially  as  a  Curia  Regis;  with 
some  offerings  they  can  probably  deal  at  once,  others  (not 
necessarily  of  a  legal  nature)  they  will  turn  over  to  the 
capitalis  Curia  Regis  on  their  return  from  Eyre.  From 
the  Assize  of  Northampton  (1176)  we  learn  that  the 
jurisdiction  of  Justices  in  Eyre  was  restricted  to  cases 
of  the  value  of  half  a  knight's  fee  or  less;  these  they 
decided  "  unless  the  matter  at  issue  (querela)  be  so  grave 


m.    Dialo^us  :  Oxford  ed.,  no.  120  (Rk.  II,  ch.  vi,  F,  G). 
n.     Dialo.Tus:  Oxford  ed.,  142  (Bk.  II,  ch.  xii). 
o.    Dialogs:  Oxi.  ed.,  154  (Bk.  II,  ch.  xxiii). 


OTHER    CASUAL  REVENUE 


17 


that  it  cannot  be  reduced  without  the  lord  King,  or  unless 
it  be  such  as  the  Justices  in  their  uncertainty  refer  to 
him  or  to  his  vicegerent. ',p  While  this  passage  sends 
cases  up  from  the  Eyre  to  the  Central  Court,  the  reverse 
process  may  be  read  in  the  Articles  of  the  Eyre  of  1194; 
these  provide  that  the  Justices  in  Eyre  are  to  deal  with 
all  declarations  (recogniciones)  and  pleas  which  are 
summoned  before  thern  by  writ  of  the  King  or  of  the 
Chief  Justiciar  "  or  which  have  been  remitted  to  them 
by  the  capitalis  Curia  Regis. "Q  In  this  Calendar  we 
have  therefore  regarded  the  Oblata  Curie,  the  offerings 
to  the  Court,  as  having  been  made  at  or  reported  to  the 
Eyre  which  they  directly  follow  in  the  Roll,  and  have 
numbered  them  as  a  part  of  that  Eyre  under  the  class- 
number  vii;  while  the  Remitments  to  the  Sheriff  first 
mentioned  are  collected  under  the  class-numbers  xi  and  x. 

§  12. 

viii.  Scutage,  Aid,  and  Tallage.  Scutages 
(shield-money),  levied  on  the  knights'  fee  in  commuta- 
tion for  military  service,  were  presumably  settled  at  the 
Exchequer,  and  the  writs  issued  by  the  Chancellor;  the 
duty  of  their  local  collection  devolved  upon  the  Sheriff. 
The  Pipe  Rolls  do  not  always  distinguish  Scutages  from 
Aids  and  Gifts  (Auxilia  and  Dona);  thus  the  "  Scutage 
for  the  Ransom  of  the  Lord  King  "  (40/viiiC)  might 
more  rightly  have  been  termed  an  i\id.  Tallages  were 
levied  on  Ancient  Demesne  and  Escheats  (43/viiiF, 
44/viiiG)  by  special  commissioners. 

ix.  Remitments  from  a  Central  Court.  Under 
this  head  have  been  collected  the  debts  fines  and  offer- 
ings which  appear  to  have  been  remitted  to  the  Sheriff 
for  local  collection  in  the  county  where  the  debtor  had 
land  to  be  distrained.  They  have  been  discussed  already 
under  Section  vii.  above. 


p.  Select  Charters,  ed.  ix,  p.  1S0. 
q.    Select  Charters,  ed.  ix,  p.  253. 


18 


ESCHEAT  ROLLS 


x.  Judaica.  The  complicated  legal  and  financial 
transactions  of  the  jews  have  been  grouped  under  this 
heading  for  convenience.  At  this  time  the  Jew  stood  to 
the  King  much  in  the  same  position  as  the  villan  to  his 
lord;  debts  due  to  the  Jews  were  thus  potentially  due 
to  the  King  whose  servants  (and  creditors)  they  were; 
and  their  affairs  were  watched  over  in  his  interest.  In 
1 194  very  detailed  regulations  for  the  conduct  of  their 
business  of  usury  were  enacted,  and  a  few  years  later 
an  Exchequer  of  the  Jews  was  established.  The  items 
under  x  have  been  remitted  to  the  Sheriff  for  collection. 

xi.  Goods  of  Felons  and  Fugitives  escheated  to 
the  Crown,  and  the  Sheriff  was  bound  to  account  for 
them  within  his  jurisdiction.  Occasionally  we  find 
these  in  their  proper  place,  but  they  are  more  often  scat- 
tered among  the  amercements  of  an  Eyre,  especially  in 
the  later  years,  and  may  even  appear  on  an  Escheat  Roll. 

xii.  Manors  and  Boroughs  separately  summoned 
appear  generally  at  the  end  of  the  County  Account. 
Thus  the  Royal  Demesne  of  Brill,  included  in  the  Farm 
of  the  County  in  Rolls  35,  36,  37,  was  allotted  to  a 
separate  farmer  in  1192;  it  thus  appears  among  the 
Sheriff's  allowances  in  that  year  (38/iiD/i4),  but  is 
accounted  at  the  end  01  the  Roll  (38/xiiA). 

§  13. 

xiii.  Special  Accounts  of  Escheats.  In  Rolls  40, 
41,  42  are  found  the  earliest  examples  of  Escheat  Rolls, 
Rolls  separate  from  the  Sheriff's  Accounts,  but  stitched 
into  the  same  File.  As  soon  as  he  returned  to  England 
from  captivity,  Richard  demanded  of  his  Council  at  Not- 
tingham that  justice  should  be  done  him  on  John  and  on 
those  who  had  supported  his  brother's  attempt  to  seize  the 
realm.  Count  John,  stripped  of  everything,  again  be- 
came '  John  Lackland  ';  his  adherents  lost  their  lands 
or  redeemed  them  only  by  heavy  fines.  The  adminis- 
tration of  the  numerous  estates,  large  and  small,  thus 


ESCHEAT  ROLLS 


19 


suddenly  added  to  the  permanent  Escheats,  seems  to 
have  been  too  heavy  a  burden  to  lay  on  the  Sheriff,  nor 
was  it  probably  intended  that  these  lands  should  remain 
permanently  with  the  Crown.  Special  Escheators  were 
therefore  appointed,  notably  William  de  sainte  Mere 
Egtise,  to  administer  and  account  for  these  lands  while 
in  the  King's  hand;  they  seem  to  form  the  chief  part 
of  the  Escheat  Roll.  But  the  confusion  at  the  Ex- 
chequer, already  considerable,  thus  became  worse  con- 
founded. Apparently  in  the  hope  of  easier  administra- 
tion of  Ancient  Demesne,  such  lands  as  Wendover  and 
Houghton  Regis  were  taken  out  of  the  Sheriff's  Farm 
(e.g.  40/iiD/n  becomes  4o/xiiiC/8),  or  were  transferred 
from  the  Purprestures  and  Escheats  {e.g.  V/2  becomes 
xiii  C/5)  for  which  he  normally  accounted;  they  were 
placed  under  the  control  of  the  Escheator,  and  appear 
on  his  Roll.  Even  the  Chattels  of  Felons  and  Fugi- 
tives on  the  escheated  estates  figure  on  the  Special 
Account  (40/xiii  B/14).  On  the  other  hand,  what  ap- 
pear to  be  some  escheats  resulting  from  John's  unsuc- 
cessful attempt  did  not  at  first  pass  to  the  province  of 
Will,  de  ste.  Mere  Eglise,  but  appear  on  the  Sheriff's 
Roll  as  in  the  hands  of  special  Accountants,  if  only  as 
a  temporary  measure;  they  form  our  heading  xiiiA. 

But  though  the  Escheat  Rolls  of  1194  are  the 
earliest  preserved,  it  is  probable  that  they  are  not  the 
first,  even  in  Richard's  reign;  John  the  Marshal  "  who 
then  had  custody  of  Escheats  "  which  were  not  under 
our  Sheriff's  control  (38/V/21)  must  have  kept  some 
sort  of  Roll  to  present  at  the  Exchequer.  Nor  were 
they  the  last  of  their  series;  for  even  when  the  special 
county  Escheat  Rolls  were  abandoned  and  the  remaining 
items  transferred  to  the  Sheriff's  Roll  in  1 197,  an  Escheat 
Roll  was  still  kept  and  is  referred  to  definitely  more 
than  once  (44/xiiiM/i  and  11;  44/xiiiN/2).  This  fact 
affords  another  illustration  of  the  inference  (only  drawn 
in  recent  years)  that  the  Pipe  Roll  by  no  means  repre- 
sents the  whole  revenue  which  accrued  from  a  Shire,  but 


20 


METHODS    OF   THE  CALENDAR 


that  money  found  its  way  by  other  channels  to  the  Ex- 
chequer or  directly  to  the  King  in  person. 

xiv.  Addenda.  Under  this  head  have  been  brought 
together  from  other  parts  of  the  Roll  a  few  matters  which 
bear  upon  the  Sheriff's  Account,  but  do  not  form  part 
of  it. 


§  14- 

Methods  of  the  Calendar.  The  system  of  reference 
is  typically  formed  by  : — 

the  number  of  the  Roll  in  the   Record   Office  Series 
(Arabic). 

the  class  number  in  the  traditional  order  of  the  list  in  §  6 

above  (Roman), 
the  section  letter  (Capital), 
the  item  number  (Arabic). 

Thus,  36/viiH/3  refers  to  Roll  36/Eyre :  of 
Geoffrey  fitz  Peter  in  1190/3^  item.  In  some  cases 
an  item  is  further  broken  up  by  small  letters,  but  they 
are  rarely  needed  for  reference.  In  referring  to  a  Note, 
the  letter  N  replaces  the  Roll  number,  since  the  Notes 
are  arranged  in  series  by  class  number,  section  letter, 
etc. 

The  yearly  state  of  each  item  in  the  Account  is 
shown  in  the  Calendar  by  three  main  Columns  of 
Account,  headed  '  Due,'  '  Paid/  and  £  Balance  these 
represent  respectively — 

1.  The  amount  for  which  the  Sheriff  is  liable  (red- 

dit  compotum  vel  debet) : 

2.  His  payment,  if  any,  on  this  item  (in  thesauro) : 

3.  The  unpaid  balance,  if  any,  carried  forward  to 

the  next  Accounting  (et  debet). 

These  three  columns  therefore,  when  each  is  added 
vertically,  should  show  for  the  whole  shire— 


METHODS    OF    THE  CALENDAR 


21 


1.  What  the  Exchequer  ought  to  receive: 

2.  What  ic  actually  received  : 

3.  WThat  it  may  hope  eventually  to  receive. 

If  the  item  be  paid  in  full,  the  Sheriff  is  quit 
(quietus),  and  the  payment  appears  in  the  second  column 
in  thicker  type;  if  it  be  paid  only  in  part,  the  amount 
paid  is  set  in  the  second  column  in  ordinary  type,  and 
the  balance  still  owing  in  the  third.  If  any  sums  have 
to  be  worked,  they  aie  worked  in  the  text,  to  the  left 
of  the  three  Columns  of  Account.  To  save  space  the 
lettering  li.  s.  d.  has  been  omitted  in  the  text. 

§  15. 

But  in  some  cases  the  amount  due  from  the  Sheriff 
becomes  lessened  or  cancelled  by  Allowances,  the  pay- 
ment of  which  had  been  authorised  to  him  bv  writ  or 
charter,  by  custom,  by  liberty  of  office,  etc.  In  the 
Calendar  all  such  Credit  Allowances  1  per  contra  '  to 
the  Sheriff  are  set  in  italic  type ;  the  consequent  account- 
ing is  sometimes  a  little  complicated,  and  will  be  made 
clearest  by  examples.  In  35/V/7  a  sum  of  1 1  li.  6s.  is 
due  from  the  Sheriff  for  the  farm  of  the  royal  land  of 
Edlesborough,  but  lands  to  the  annual  value  of  9H.  10s. 
have  been  granted  away  since  the  amount  of  the  Farm 
was  settled;  consequently  the  Sheriff  becomes  quit  on 
paying  the  difference,  namely  ili.  16s.  Again,  in 
35/viiB/6,  the  amount  due  from  the  Sheriff  is  exactly 
balanced  by  the  amount  pardoned  to  the  Hospitallers; 
the  Sheriff  is  therefore  quit,  and  the  Exchequer  receives 
nothing  on  this  item ;  but  in  order  to  mark  the  settlement 
of  the  Sheriff's  liability  we  show  the  sum  of  OH.  Os.  Od. 
by  thicker  type  in  the  second  column,  implying  quittance 
without  actual  payment  of  cash.  If  the  allowance  meets 
a  part  only  of  the  debt,  and  no  cash  payment  is  made, 
attention  is  called  to  it  by  the  ciphers  oli.  os.  od.  in  the 
second  column  in  ordinary  type,  and  the  debit  balance 
forward  is  shown  in  the  third  column.    If  nothing  is 


22 


METHODS  OF  THE  CALENDAR :  PARDONS 


paid  or  allowed,  naturally  nothing  appears  in  the  second 
column. 

The  c  per  contra  1  pardons  shown  in  the  body  of 
the  Account  by  italic  type  are  often  somewhat  per- 
plexing, and  are  not  all  of  one  kind. 

(a)  Certain  religious  foundations  (episcopal  see,  monas- 

tery, etc.)  received  by  their  charters  exemption  from 
the  murder  fine,  from  fines  of  the  '  common  assize  ' 
of  the  Eyre,  and  from  similar  amercements.  Thus 
the  charter  of  Henry  I  to  Dunstable  Priory  frees 
the  Canons  from  fines  at  shire  and  hundred  courts, 
murder  fines,  tallages,  pleas  and  plaints,  Danegeld, 
etc.  If  then  an  offence  is  committed  on  their  land, 
the  Justices  in  Eyre  impose  a  fine  which  the 
Sheriff  is  called  upon  to  produce  at  the  Exchequer; 
he  meets  the  charge  by  invoking  the  charter,  and 
should  also  produce  a  royal  writ.  For  example,  in 
Roll  35  the  Templars  and  Hospitallers  are  found 
to  have  broken  the  forest  laws  (vi/3,  vii  B/6,  vii 
C/i),  but  escape  fine  under  the  terms  of  their  char- 
ters. Again,  a  murder  has  been  presented  in 
Wixamtree  Hundred  (vii  F/3);  the  murder  fine 
should  be  borne  by  the  whole  Hundred,  but  five 
religious  escape  their  share. 

(b)  The  officials  of  the  Exchequer  were  similarly  exempt 

from  such  fines  by  virtue  of  their  office.  (36/viiE 

tm 

(c)  In  some  cases  the  pardons  are  merely  a  method  of 

accounting,  moneys  due  to  the  King  in  one  connec- 
tion being  balanced  against  moneys  already  paid 
to  the  King  in  another  (36/ix  A/ 20),  or  against 
moneys  due  by  writ  from  the  King  to  the  debtor 
(36/vii  B/5>  36/vii  C/3). 

(d)  In  other  cases  the  pardon  was  apparently  really  an 

act  of  clemency,  some  or  all  of  the  debt  being 
remitted  (36/ix  A/22). 


METHODS   OF    THE  CALENDAR 


23 


Items  on  which  cbe  Sheriff  is  quit  do  not  appear 
in  the  subsequent  Roll,  nor  consequently  in  its  Calen- 
dar. Items,  which  are  to  be  collected  in  other  counties 
by  other  Sheriffs  and  will  not  appear  in  our  subsequent 
Roll  of  next  year,  are  not  displayed  in  the  Columns  of 
Account  (which  would  vitiate  the  debit  balance  forward 
of  the  County),  but  are  stated  in  the  body  of  the  text. 

Surnames  and  place-names  are  retained  in  their 
original  form,  except  when  well  known  and  common 
(such  as  Buckinghamshire,  Winchester,  etc.).  Font 
names  appear  in  modern  form  (if  any),  and  when  com- 
mon are  abbreviated.  It  might  have  been  more  consis- 
tent to  render  all  Latinised  names  into  their  probable 
contemporary  equivalents,  e.g.  Neel  for  Nigellus,  Rey- 
nold for  Reginaldus.  But  the  forms  finally  adopted 
will  be  less  strange  to  the  reader. 

New  entries,  on  their  first  appearance  after  1189, 
are  marked  n.,  except  in  the  case  of  pardons  and  allow- 
ances which  only  appear  once. 

§  16. 

The  Treasurer's  Scribe  did  not  always  preserve  the 
order  in  which  items  had  first  appeared  on  his  Rolls,  but 
shifted  them  about  so  as  to  fit  payments  of  a  lump  sum 
which  could  be  met  by  tallies,  to  meet  block  payments 
for  items  which  had  very  different  origins,  and  so  forth. 
But  for  study  of  trie  facts  preserved  in  our  record  and 
for  their  comparison  year  by  year,  it  is  essential  that 
the  items  should  be  presented,  as  far  as  is  possible, 
always  in  the  same  order  in  every  Roll.  Consequently 
we  have  replaced  these  errant  items  in  their  traditional 
and  chronological  position  when  they  were  reasonably 
near  to  it;  if  they  have  wandered  far,  we  have  given  a 
reference  to  the  place  where  they  are  or  ought  to  be. 
The  order  of  the  items  in  the  Calendar  is  therefore  by 
no  means  exactly  their  order  on  any  Roll  except  that 
of  their  first  appearance. 


24 


METHODS    OF    THE  CALENDAR 


Again  :  new  Eyres,  new  Offerings,  etc.  were  on  the 
original  Rolls  simply  added  at  the  end  of  all  the  entries 
which  had  been  brought  forward  from  the  previous  year, 
in  no  sort  of  relation  to  other  headings  of  the  same 
class;  they  were  therefore  entered  merely  in  order  of 
date  (at  first,  but  it  is  not  always  adhered  to  later);  and 
the  result  is  that  an  original  Pipe  Roll  is  a  bewildering 
patchwork  of  local  amercements,  scutages,  offerings, 
judaica,  etc.  In  this  Calendar,  however,  all  Eyres  are 
brought  together  as  class  vii,  lettered  in  order  of  date, 
and  the  date  itself  added;  similarly,  all  Scutages  (in- 
cluding Aids  and  Tallages)  are  in  class  viii;  and  so 
forth. 

This  unconventional  treatment  may  perhaps  be  con- 
demned by  the  purist  in  Record  work,  who  regards  every 
jot  and  tittle  of  the  original  manuscript  as  sacrosanct.  If 
all  the  Rolls  were  as  orderly  as  R.35,  the  items  might 
have  been  left  in  their  original  series;  but,  even  on  this, 
item  vi/i  is  entered  out  of  place;  there  is  no  entry  of 
Hugh  de  Morewich  at  the  head  of  the  Pleas  and  Offer- 
ings of  his  Eyre ;  the  headings  of  Bucks,  and  Beds,  are 
not  exclusive;  and  so  forth.  In  Rolls  36  to  41,  the 
confusion  becomes  each  year  somewhat  greater;  to  take 
a  case  from  R.41,  items  from  the  Eyres,  of  which  the 
chronological  order  is  shown  by  our  number  and  letter 
in  series,  were  entered  on  the  Roll  in  the  following 
disorder : 

vii  B/15  vii  D/3 

vii  C/2  vii  E/10 

vii  F/8  vii  E/15 

vii  G/22  vii  J/4 

vii  C/4  vii  F/14 

Reference  has  already  been  made  (§  13)  to  the 
confusion  introduced  by  the  forfeiture  of  Count  John 
and  his  adherents,  and  examples  given  of  its  effect;  the 
machinery  of  audit  at  the  Exchequer,  which  was  perhaps 

adequate  when  Eyres  were  infrequent  and  sources  of 


DESPERATE  DEBTS 


25 


revenue  were  few,  became  paralysed  under  the  strain;' 
erasures,  errors  in  carrying  forward,  and  so  forth  become 
increasingly  frequent. 

To  illustrate  in  another  way  the  difficulty  of  tracing 
an  item  in  a  mere  transcript  of  the  Rolls  : — the  farm  of 
the  royal  manor  of  Brill  is  silently  included  in  the 
Sheriff's  Farm  in  the  earlier  years  :  in  R.38  it  has  been 
assigned  to  William  son  of  Richard  and  appears  in  the 
traditional  place  at  the  end  of  the  Sheriff's  Roll  for  a 
"  Manor  separately  summoned  " ;  in  R.39  it  does  not 
appear  at  all ;  in  R.40  it  is  fully  accounted  for  three  years, 
again  in  the  traditional  place;  in  R.41  it  is  enrolled,  not 
with  Bucks,  and  Beds.,  but  on  another  membrane  after 
the  Honour  of  Wallingford  with  which  it  has  no  connec- 
tion; finally  in  R.42,  43,  44,  it  is  pitched  in  among 
Purprestures  and  Escheats,  being  really  neither  of  these 
but  a  manor  of  the  Ancient  Demesne  of  King  Edward. 
We  have  (naturally)  put  it  uniformly  in  its  proper  place. 

If  our  Calendar  had  retained  the  chaos  which 
characterises  all  the  later  Rolls  of  our  series,  its  study 
would  have  been  found  as  exasperating  and  misleading 
as  is  that  of  the  original  Rolls  themselves;  it  would  have 
failed  entirely  in  its  function  as  a  Calendar,  namely,  to 
present  the  contents  in  a  form  ready  for  the  student's 
use,  with  the  facts  easily  traceable  from  year  to  year. 

§  17. 

At  intervals  the  hopelessness  of  trying  to  recover 
small  sums  from  folk  who  were  dead  or  poor  or  stubborn 
seems  to  have  struck  the  Exchequer,  when  such  were 
struck  off  the  Roll  as  "  desperate  debts."  A  great 
clearance  of  this  sort  had  been  made  in  1 187  and  noted 
thus : — "  Here  are  the  debtors  from  whom  we  could  get 
nothing  for  this  year  and  several  years  past,  whom  we 
have  extracted  from  the  four  rolls  of  recent  years."" 

r.    Compare  Jenkinson :  Magna  Carta  Commem.  Essavs.  266-270. 
s.    P.R.S.,  xsavii, 


26  CHRONOLOGY   OF   THE  PERIOD 

Further  revisions  were  m?.de  in  1195  and  1198,  Le.,  be- 
tween the  presenting  of  Roll?  40  and  41,  43  and  44,  after 
which  many  items  disappear — some  perhaps  by  inad- 
vertence, some  certainly  not  on  the  score  of  poverty,  the 
majority  probably  as  *  desperate  debts.'  The  list  shows 
the  Roll   on  which  they  last  appeared  :  — 


Roll. 

Roil. 

40   vi/a,  4,  5. 
39    vii  A/7. 

40 

vii  L/6,  13-15. 

40 

vii  M/x-3,  6-8,  13,  14,  16,  19. 

40    vii  B/10,  13, 

43 

vii  N/14. 

43    vii  B/2,  9,  11,  12,  15. 

42 

vii  O/72. 

40   vii  D/6,  7. 

40    vii  E/2,  7,  13. 

43 

vii  O/2,  56,  57,  61,  63. 
ix  A/7. 

40 

40    vii  F/5,  6,  16,  17. 

37 

ix  A/17. 

36   vii  F/21. 

40 

ix  B/5. 

40    vii  G/3,  6,  9,  ro,  12-14,  16.  17. 

40 

ix  C/2. 

43    vii  G/22. 

43 

ix  F/i. 

43    vii  J/4. 

40 

x  A/5. 

40    vii  K/i. 

38 

x  A/6. 

In  one  case  the  Sheriff  reports  that  the  debtor  tf  is 
dead  and  nothing  of  his  is  found  "  to  distrain  (39/vii 
A/3),  and  the  item  disappears  from  R.40,  but  reappears  in 
R.41  and  is  paid!  Two  other  items  (viiL/6,  viiM/24) 
do  not  occur  in  R.42  and  43,  but  are  partly  paid  in  R.44. 


§  is. 

Chronology  of  the  Period. 

Henry  II,  died  ii89  =  Eleanor  of  Aquitaine,  d.  1204. 

Sons  2.    Henry  fitz  Henry,  b.  115 5,  crowned  1170,  d.  1183. 

3.    Richard,  b.  1 1 57,  crowned  1189,  d.  1199. 

5.    John.  b.  1 166,  crowned  1199,  d.  1216. 
Nat.  son  Geoffrey  fitz  Roy,  b.  1153,  Chancellor  1182-11S9,  d.  1/12. 

1 189. 

Henry  II   dies  (July  6),  Richard  arrives  in  England,  crowned  (3  Sept.) 
Will,  de  Longchamp  appointed  Chancellor ;  Bp.  Hugh  of  Durham  appointed 

Chief  Justiciar,  and  Regent  jointly  with  Wilt.  Earl  of  Essex  (d.  Oct.) 
John  created  Count  of   Mortain,  married  (29  Aug.)  to  Isabel  heiress  of 

Earldom  and  Honour  of  Gloucester ;  receives  many  Castles  and  Honours, 

including  Wallingford. 
F-yre  (35/vii  F  and  G). 
Geoffrey  nominated  Archbp.  of  York. 

John  leads  the  army  against  Rees  of  South  Wales  (Scutage  36/viii  A, 

36/viii  B). 
Richard  leaves  for  France  (11  Dec.) 


CHRONOLOGY   OF   THE  PERIOD 


27 


1190. 

Massacres  of  the  Jews. 

Richard,  and  Philip  Augustus  King  of  France,  start  on  Crusade  (Aug.) 
Walter  Archbp.  of  Rouen  and  Will,  de  Longchamp,  Regents. 
Forest  Eyre  (36/vii  H  and  J). 

1191. 

Richard  arrives  at  Acre  (8  June). 

John  in  England  extends  his  power  by  intrigue  and  violence. 
Eyre  (37/vii  K  and  L). 

John  convokes  the  Barons  against  the  Regent  Longchamp  (5  Oct.),  and 
grants  a  Commune  to  London  (8  Oct.) ;  Longchamp  surrenders  and 
leaves  England  (29  Oct.) 

Walter  Archbp.  of  Rouen  appointed  Chief  Justiciar. 

1 192. 

Queen  Eleanor  returns  to  uphold  Richard's  interests  against  John  and 
Philip  (Feb.) 

Richard  sails  from  Acre  (9  Oct.),  storm-driven  and  shipwrecked;  seized 
by  Leopold  of  Austria  (21  Dec.)  and  handed  over  to  the  Emperor 
Henry  VI,  who  demands  a  ransom  of  £100,000. 

"93- 

John  makes  secret  treaty  with  Philip  (Jan.),  returns  to  England  and 
demands  the  crown ;  raises  revolt  against  the  Justiciar. 

Hubert  Walter  returns  from  arranging  terms  of  Ransom  (20  Apr.)  and 
negotiates  truce  with  John.  Collection  of  Aid  for  Ransom  begun 
(40/viii  C). 

John  and  Philip  attempt  to  bribe  the  Emperor  to  retain  Richard  (July). 
Hubert  Walter  made  Archbp.  Canterbury  and  Chief  Justiciar  (autumn). 
Eyre  (39/vii  M  and  N). 

1 194. 

Hubert  Walter  reforms  the  Eyre  system,  and  establishes  Coroners. 
Richard  freed  (4  Feb.),  and  enthusiastically  received  in  England  (13  Mar.) 
John  and  his  followers  stripped  of  all  lands  (31  Mar.) ;  Escheat  Rolls  begun 

(40/xiii  A,  40/xiii  B). 
Richard  re-crowned  at  Winchester  (17  Apr.),  and  after  raising  money  leaves 

England  for  ever  (12  May). 
John  sues  for  and  receives  pardon  (May). 

The  French  Wars,  i  195- 1 199. 
"95- 

Scutage  of  Second  Army  of  Normandy  (42/viii  D,  part  of  41/ix  E). 
Hubert  Walter  assigns  Knights  to  exact  the  Peace-oath  (the  future  Justices 
of  the  Peace). 

County  of  Mortain  and  Honours  of  Gloucester  and  Wallingford  restored  to 
John  (Sept.) 

1196. 

Scutage  of  the  Third  Army  of  Normandy  (42/viii  E,  42/ix  G). 
Eyre  (42/vii  O). 

1 197. 

Building  of  Chateau  Gaillard. 


28  EXPLANATION    OF  THE  TABLES 

1198. 

Geoffrey  fitz  Peter  appointed  Chief  Justiciar  (Aug.) 
Tallage  on  Royal  demesnes  (43/viii  F). 
Eyre  (44/vii  P). 

1 199. 

Tallage  on  Royal  demesnes  (44/viii  G). 

Richard  wounded  and  dies  before  Chaluz  (6  Apr.),  devising  his  realm  to 
John;  buried  at  Fontevraud. 

§  19. 

EXPLANATION  OF  THE  TABLES. 

Table  I.    Abstract  of  the  Farm. 

This  has  been  discussed  at  the  end  of  §  8.  It  is 
noticeable  that  the  Farm  numero  of  108H.  is  the  same  in 
every  year,  and  the  Farm  bianco  the  same  in  every  year 
but  one  (Roll  38,  where  we  may  reasonably  suppose  an 
error  of  omission);  and  that  they  were  already  the  same 
(within  a  shilling)  in  11 56.  This  disposes  of  the  legend 
that  the  amount  of  the  Farms  was  kept  profoundly  secret, 
and  that  the  Sheriff  was  not  allowed  to  know  what  sum 
he  had  to  meet. 

Table  II.    Abstract  of  the  Revenue. 

This  table  has  been  prepared  in  order  to  gain  some 
knowledge  of  the  finance  of  the  period;  all  moneys  are 
expressed  in  bianco  values. 

The  account  headed  Sheriff's  Farm  shows  year  by 
year  in 

Col.  iii,  what  the  Exchequer  received  in  cash  : 

„      iv,  the  '  per  contra  '  or  credit  allowances  (expenses, 
alms,  etc.) : 

„     v,  the  total  benefit  to  the  revenue  of  these  two : 

vi,  any  deficit  due  from  the  Sheriff  at  the  next 
accounting. 


EXPLANATION    OF    THE  TABLES 


29 


The  account  headed  General  Revenue  shows  in 
Col.  vii,  the  total  amount  for  which  the  Sheriff  is  chal- 
lenged : 

viii,  his  cash  payments  : 

ix,  his  1  per  contra  1  or  credit  claims  (pardons,  etc.) : 

„     x,  the  total  benefit  to  the  revenue  of  the  two  last : 

„     xi,  the  percentage  of  the  total  amount  due  which 
was  formed  by  the  total  receipts  (cash  plus  credits) : 

„     xii,  the  deficit  due  from  the   Sheriff  at  the  next 
accounting. 

To  the  levy  of  the  Aid  for  the  King's  Ransom,  and 
to  the  Scutages  which  he  raised  for  the  French  war  after 
his  return,  we  may  fairly  attribute  the  fluctuations  in  the 
total  amounts  due  for  various  years.  But  it  throws  a 
curious  light  on  medieval  finance  to  see  what  a  small 
proportion  of  the  amount  expected  was  raised  in  any 
year;  and  the  fact  that  the  amount  actually  received 
might  vary  from  21  to  59  per  cent,  of  what  was  due,  must 
have  made  the  budget  for  any  year  a  difficult  task.  The 
average  percentage  of  moneys  actually  received  (cash 
plus  credits)  in  the  ten  years  was  only  36.7  per  cent,  of 
the  amount  due. 

Table  III.    Distribution  of  the  Sections. 

This  reference  table  is  intended  to  show  at  a  glance 
the  first  appearance  of  any  Section  on  our  Rolls,  and  its 
persistence  or  disappearance. 

Table  IV.    Conspectus  Rotulorum. 

This  is  designed  for  general  work,  and  covers  not 
only  our  ten  Rolls  but  such  of  their  predecessors  as  have 
been  preserved  to  us.  Appended  to  it  is  a  list  of  Jus- 
tices who  appear  from  the  Pipe  Rolls  to  have  visited 
these  Shires  up  to  1199. 


30  TABLE  I 

TABLE  I.      ABSTRACT  OF  THE  SHERIFF'S  FARM. 

ROLL  35  :  1189. 


NUMERO. 


Paid  into  Treasury 
Allowances 


Surplus 
Farm 


Paid  into  Treasury 
Allowances 


Surplus 
Farm 


Paid  into  Treasury 
Allowances 


Surplus 
Farm 


Paid  into  Treasury 
Allowances 


Surplus 


BLANCO. 

li.    s.  d. 

Paid  into  Treasury  ...  223  17  i 
Surplus  no.,  blanched  as    146    2  10 


Farm 


li.    s.  d. 
95  16  6 
166   o  o 

261  16  6 
153  16  6 

108   o  o 


ROLL  36  :  1190. 
108    o   o       Paid  into  Treasury 
129  12    4  Allowances 


369  19  11 


126  17  2 
120   o  o 

9 


237 
129 


Surplus  no.,  blanched  as  123  2 
Farm   


369  19 


108   o  o 

ROLL  37  :  1191. 

75  12  10  Paid  into  Treasury 
151    7    2  Allowances 


85 
160 


227  o  o 
119   o  o 


108 


Debet  (12.7.2  no.)  blanched 
as   


Farm 

ROLL  38:  1 192. 
67  12  10       Paid  into  Treasury 


124  15  11 


192  8 
84  8 


108  o 


Allowances 
Surplus  no.,  blanched  as 


Surplus  bl.   

Debet  no.,  blanched  a3 


113  I 

0 

358  5 

1 

xi  14 

10 

369  19 

11 

72  14 

1 

180  0 

0 

80  4 

4 

332  18 

5 

0  3 

4 

332  15 

1 

38  6 

10 

37i  « 

1 1 

An  error  in  the  bianco  farm  of  ili,  2s.  od.,  probably  due  to  an  item 
omitted  by  the  scribe. 

ROLL  39:  1 193. 

60   o   o       Paid  into  Treasury 
Allowances 


Paid  into  Treasury 
Allowances 


167   4  n 


Surplus 
F  arm 


227 
119 


4  " 
4  11 


70  18  9 
..  180  o  o 
Surplus  no.,  blanched  as  113  5  8 
Surplus  bl.,  from  1192  ...  034 


108 


Debet  (5.17-9  no.)  blanched 
as   


364  7 


5  i2 


Farm 


369  19  11 


TABLE  I 


31 


NUMERO. 

Paid  into  Treasury 
Allowances     [  calculated  <] 


Surplus  [calculated] 
Farm   


ROLL  40  :  1 194. 


li.  s.  d. 

59  8  8 

157  12  8 

217  1  4 

109  1  4 

108  o  o 


BLANCO. 


Paid  into  Treasury 
Allowances 


li.    s.  d. 
66  11  8 
186  10  o 


Surplus  no.,  blanched  as    103  12  3 


Debet  bianco 
Farm 


35*5  13  « 
13   6  o 

369  19  11 


ROLL  41  :  1 195. 


Paid  into  Treasury 
Allowances 


Surplus 
Farm 


Paid  into  Treasury 
Allowances 


Surplus 
Farm 


Paid  into  Treasury 
Allowances 


Surplus 
Farm 


Paid  into  Treasury 
Allowances 


Surplus 
Farm 


So  9  10 
'35    6  2 

215  16  o 

107  16  o 

108  o  o 


Paid  into  Treasury     ...     61    8  7 
Allowances  ...       ...    190   o  o 

Surplus  no.,  blanched  as    102    8  2 


Debet  (17.0.2  no.)  blanched 


353 


as 
Farm 


16  3 


..   369  19  11 


ROLL  42  :  1196. 


25  12  11 

164  14  6 

J90   7  5 

8*   7  5 

108  o  o 

ROLL  43 

79   8  * 

130   9  2 

209  17  3 

101  17  3 


108   o  o 

ROLL  44 

98  12  9 
128   5  2 


326  17  11 
118  17  11 

108   o  o 


Paid  into  Treasury     ...  60  16  o 

Allowances    190  o  o 

Surplus  no.,  blanched  as  78  5  o 

Paid  into  Treasury     ...  40  18  11 

Farm    369  19  11 


:  1197. 

Paid  into  Treasury     ...  71  16  1 

Allowances         ...       ...  180   o  o 

Surplus  ^no.,  blanched  as  96  15  5 

Paid  into  Treasury     ...  21    8  5 

Farm   369  19  11 


:  119S. 

Paid  into  Treasury     ...  66  17  o 

Allowances    180   o  o 

Surplus  no.,  blanched  as  112  19  1 


Debet  bianco 
Farm 


359  *6  1 
10  3  10 

369  19  11 


32 


TABLE  II 


TABLE  III 


33 


TABLE  III.    DISTRIBUTION  OF  THE  SECTIONS. 


Class  and 

First 

Entry. 

Last 

Entry. 

Section. 

Roll. 

Date. 

Roll. 

Date. 

Farm  of  the  Shires 

oi 

40 

IIQ4 

40 

"94 

i 

35 

II09 

44 

1 195 

Allowances  to  Sheriff 

11  A 

35 

Il89 

44 

1 198 

ii  B 

ii  C 

35 

1189 

44 

1 198 

ii  D 

35 

Il89 

44 

1198 

11  11« 

35 

1  I  OO 

44 

t  t  r  Q 
I  I90 

ii  F 

17 

I IQI 

AAV 

H98 

tarm  of  the  Borough 

iii 

36 

I  I90 

44 

1 198 

Increment  and  Balance 

iv 

35 

H89 

44 

1198 

Purprestures,  Escheats 

v 

OJ 

ii8q 

I  I98 

Arrears 

vi 

35 

1189 

44 

II98 

Eyres 

vii  A 

35 

1189 

4i 

"95 

vii  B 

35 

1189 

44 

119S 

vii  C 

35 

1 189 

44 

1198 

vii  D 

35 

1189 

4i 

"95 

vii  E 

35 

1189 

4i 

1.195 

vii  F 

35 

1 189 

43 

"97 

vii  G 

35 

1189 

43 

"97 

vii  H 

36 

1 190 

39 

"93 

vii  J 

36 

1190 

43 

1197 

vii  K 

37 

1191 

44 

1198 

vii  L 

37 

1191 

44 

1198 

vii  M 

39 

"93 

44 

1198 

vii  N 

39 

"93 

44 

1 198 

vii  O 

42 

1196 

44 

1198 

vii  P 

44 

1 198 

44 

1198 

Scutages 

viii  A 

^ 

1 190 

44 

1 198 

viii  B 

36 

1 190 

44 

1 198 

viii  C 

40 

1 194 

44 

119S 

viii  D 

42 

1196 

44 

1198 

viii  E 

42 

1196 

44 

1198 

viii  F 

43 

"97 

44 

1198 

viii  G 

44 

1 198 

44 

1 198 

Remitments 

ix  A 

'  36 

1 190 

44 

1198 

ix  B 

37 

1191 

44 

1198 

ix  C 

39 

"93 

44 

1198 

ix  D 

40 

"94 

44 

1 198 

ix  E 

4i 

"95 

44 

1 19c* 

ix  F 

4-2 

iiq6 

44 

1198 

ix  G 

42 

1196 

44 

1198 

ix  H 

42 

1 196 

44  . 

1 198 

T  ud,iirit 

J  u      H  l  V.  Cl 

x  A 

37 

A  A 

44 

1108 

x  B 

17 

Of 

nor 

44 

1198 

x  C 

38 

1192 

44 

1198 

Manor  of  Brill 

xii  A 

38 

1 192 

44 

1198 

Escheats 

xiii  A 

40 

"94 

40 

"94 

xiii  B 

40 

"94 

44 

1 198 

to 

xiii  N 

40 

"94 

44 

1198 

34 


TABLE  iV 


TABLE  IV.    CONSPECTUS  ROTULORUM. 


KOll 

Regnal 

No. 

Year.  ! 

X 

3° 

Hen.  I 

2 

2 

Hen.  II 

3 

•a 

"  " 

4 

4 

>j  » 

«; 

c 

j 

j>  >> 

c 

b 

6 

>j  .»> 

7 

7 

j>  >» 

8 

8 

»>  »» 

9 

Q 

IO 

xo 

11  a 

i  i 

1 1 

12 

12 

'3 

13 

»»  " 

i4 

14 

»>  11 

»5 

>»  >> 

10 

l6 

"  w 

X7 

xo 

'9 

19 

20 

20 

j>  »' 

21 

21 

22 

22 

23 

2? 

j>  »> 

24 

24 

>»  11 

25 

25 

_  r 
2D 

26 

27 

27 

,Q 

2o 

28 

29 

29 

»»  >> 

3° 

30 

»»  >> 

31 

«/ 

32 

32 

33 

34 

34 

1 )  11 

11 

X 

Ric.  I 

36 

2 

>>  >j 

3 

i»  »> 

P 

4 

j»  »» 

39 

11  11 

40 

i»  >> 

4i 

1 

jj  11 

42 

»>  >> 

43 

9 

i»  j» 

44 

10 

II  M 

MichaeLm.  Bucks,  and  Beds. 


1130 
1156 
xie-7 
1x58 

"59 
ri(x> 
it6i 

x  162 
1 163 
j  164 

1x65 
1166 
1 167 
1 168 
1169 
1170 

1171 
1172 

"73 
1174 

1176 

1177 
1x78 
X179 
1 180 
xi8i 
1 182 
1183 
X184 
X185 
1 186 
1187 
xx88 
1 189 
1 190 
1191 
1 192 
"93 
"94 

"95 
1 196 

"97 
1x98 


Rec.  Comm.,  100. 
Rec.  Comm.,  21. 


Sheriffs  or  other 
Accountants. 

Ric.  Basset,  Aubrey  de  Ver 
Hen.  de  Essex 
[  ?  Hen.  de  Essex? 
Sim,  s.  of  Peter 


»  T?  C 

i,  17. 

>» 

ii,  36. 

Geoff,  s.  of  Ralf, 
Osbt. 

■>) 

iv,  ix. 

Ric. 

n 

v>  39- 

Ric.  s.  of  Osbt. 

it 

vi,  14. 

>>  a 

is 

vii,  29. 

Hugh  de  la  Lega, 
Osbt. 

Ric. 

11 

VIII,  21. 

a 

33 

n 

ix,  10. 

31 

33 

11 

XI,  102. 

II 

33 

»« 

All,  O. 

II 

33 

11 

II 

a 

i: 

xv,  24. 

David  Archdeacon,  Will. 

Ric. 

II 

xyb.  55- 

a 

a 

13 

TVlil  At 

xix,  69. 

a 

33 

t» 

33 

ii 

xxi,  81. 

Will,  s!  of  Ric. 

II 

xxii,  48. 

a 

fl 

xxv,  15. 

a 

II 

xxvi,  156. 

a 

II 

xxvii,  91. 

13 

a 

xxviii,  72. 

a 

xxix,  122. 

Will.  Ruffus. 

11 

XXX,  121. 

33 

n 

xxxi,  xi  5. 

33 

33 

xxxii,  74. 

33 

33 

xxxiii,  112. 

a 

33 

xxxiv,  130. 

31 

it 

xxxyi,  20. 

33 

33 

xxxvii,  31. 

33 

Rec.  Comm.,  30. 


Oger  s.  of  Oger. 
Will.  Ruffus 


x.  Will.  Ruffus,  2.  Sim.  de 

Beauchamp. 
Sim.  de  Beauchamp. 


Robt.  de  Braibroc  for  WilL 
d'Albini. 


I 


TABLE  IV 


35 


Eyres,  Assises,  etc. 


Before  1130-  i.  Ralf  Basset.  2.  Geoffrey  de  Clinton.  These  men  ap- 
pear to  have  held  pleas  in  many  counties.  As  Ralf  Basset  died  in  1127,  his 
recorded  pleas  are  old  arrears.  Geoffrey  de  Clinton  was  evidently  on  a 
later  Eyre,  probably  in  1128  or  1129  before  his  trial  for  treason  at  Easter 
1130. 

1166.  Eyre  of  Earl  Geoffrey  [de  Mandeville]  and  Richard  de  Luci. 

1167.  Eyre  of  Alan  de  Nevill. 

1173.  Assise  of  royal  demesnes  by  Richard  [fitz  Nigel]  the  Treasurer. 
This  appears  to  be  cited  in  the  ensuing  Roll  under  the  name  of  Nicholas 
Archdeacon  of  Huntingdon,  Besides  these  two  men,  Nicholas  de  Sigillo 
and  Reginald  de  Warenee  served  on  this  Bench. 

1174.  Assise  of  demesnes  and  escheats  by  William  son  of  Richard  and 
Richard  son  of  Nigel.  The  latter  appears  not  to  be  the  Treasurer,  but  a 
tenant  in  chief  in  Bucks,  (note  N/viii  B/6). 

1175.  Eyre  of  Ranulf  de  Glanville  and  Hugh  de  Creissi.  The  roll 
mentions  also  what  appear  to  be  remitments  from  William  Basset,  William 
son  of  Ralf,  and  Bertram  de  Verdun,  sitting  at  the  central  Curia  Regis. 

1176.  Eyre  of  Walter  son  of  Robert,  Hugh  de  Creissi,  and  Robert 
Mantel. 

1176.  Forest  Amercements  with  no  Justice  named  (perhaps  assessed  at 
the  Exchequer). 

1177.  Aid  from  burghs  and  vills  by  Roger  son  of  Reinfrid  and  Ger- 
vase  de  Cornhill. 

1178.  Forest  Eyre  (Bucks,  only)  of  Thomas  son  of  Bernard. 

1179.  Eyre  by  Ralf  son  of  Stephen,  William  son  of  Stephen,  Roger 
son  of  Reinfrid,  and  Robert  Mantel. 

1180.  Eyre  of  Hugh  Murdac,  Michael  Belet,  and  Richard  de  Pecche. 

1183.  Eyre  of  Roger  son  of  Reinfrid,  William  Ruff  us.  and  Michael 
Belet. 

1185.  Eyre  of  William  de  Vere,  Roger  son  of  Reinfrid,  Richard  de 
Pecche,  and  Otho  son  of  William  (viiA  in  the  Calendar). 

1185.  Forest  Eyre  of  Geoffrey  fitz  Peter  (viiB,  part). 

1186.  Eyre  of  Hugh  de  Morewich,  Ralf  Murdac,  William  le  Vavassur, 
and  Thomas  de  Husseburn  (viiB,  part). 

1187.  Forest  Eyre  of  Geoffrey  fitz  Peter  (viiC). 

1188.  Eyre  of  Ralf  the  Archdeacon  of  Colchester,  Roger  son  of  Reinfrid, 
Michael  Belet,  Robert  de  Witefeld  (viiB,  viiE). 

1189.  Eyre  of  Geoffrey  fitz  Peter,  Ralf  Murdac,  Michael  Belet,  and 
Nigel  son  of  Alexander  (viiF,  viiG). 

1190.  Forest  Eyre  of  Geoffrey  fitz  Peter  (viiH,  viij). 

4191.  Eyre  of  the  Abbot  of  Peterborough,  H.  Archdeacon  of  Evreux, 
and  Geoffrey  fitz  Peter  (viiK,  viiL). 

4193.  Eyre  of  Geoffrey  fitz  Peter,  Osbert  son  of  Henry,  Michael  Belet, 
and  William  Rufius  (viiM,  viiN). 

1196.  Eyre  of  Simon  de  Pateshull,  Oger  son  of  Oger,  and  Henry  de 
Castcillun  (viiO). 

4498.    Forest  Eyre  of  Geoffrey  fitz  Peter  and  Hugh  de  Nevill  (viiP). 


36 


THE  CALENDAR. 


ROLL  35 :    1  RIG.   I  :  1189. 


MEMBRANE  2  DORSO. 

Due. 
li.   s.  d. 


Paid, 
li.    s.  d. 


Balance. 
li.   s.  J. 


FARM  OF  THE  SHIRES. 


Oger  s.  of  Oger  for  the  Farm  of 
Bucks,  and  Beds  


ii  ALLOWANCES. 

ii  A    /•  Knighthood  of  the  Temple  i    6  8 
2.  Brethr.   of  the   Hosp  of  Witsant 

1  io  5 

ii  C     /•  Robt.  s.  of  Fulchcr  of  Oxine- 

fort    3    o  io 

2.  Biland  ualtrarius    2    5  j\ 

ii  D     /.  Monks  of  Woburn,  in  the  mill  of 
Leochton*    1  12  o 

2.  Brethr.  of  Hosp.  of  Witsandy  in 
BruhelV    300  no. 

3.  Brethr.  of  Hosp.  of  Wit  sand,  in 
Luiton*    200 

4.  Canons  of  DunstafV  in  Hochton* 

if    o    o  no. 

5.  Nuns  of  Fontevraidt ,  in  Leochton* 

48    8    o  no. 

6.  The  same,  in  Radeneche  400  no. 

7.  The  same,  in  BrichulV  1  12    o  no. 

8.  Wise  hard  Leidet,  in  Hyda  de 
Hulmo    /  10    o  no. 

g.  Rog.  Foil  lutrarius,  in  Ailesberia 
in  the  land  wh.  was  of  /Ernis* 
prepositus   16  o 

10.  Engelram  de  Fenles,  in  W endoura 
and  Citoti1  [reciius  Elton'] 

60    o    o  no. 

n.  Hugh  de  Gurnay,  in  Hochton  for 

\  yr   5  *5  ° 

ii  E     /.  For  2000  dishes  and  200  bowls  for 
the  Kg.'s  coronation    /    5  3 

2.  For  2200  hens,  taking  guarding 
and  delivering  tJ.em  to  Westmin- 
ster for  the  Kg.'s  coronation 

8    3  1 

3.  Work  on  the  Gaol  of  Bedeford,  by 
view  of  Will.  s.  of  Folbricht 

2  1$  2 

And  he  is  quit. 


233 
95 


1  bl. 

6  no. 


ROLL   ZS  t   tv,  r 


37 


Due. 
li.    s.  d. 

INCREMENT  AND  BALANCE. 

1.  Sh.,  for  the  Increment  of  Bucks. 

[this  year]   10    o  o 

2.  Sh.,  for  i£  yrs.  past  

3.  Will.  Ruffus,  for  "j\  yrs.  in  which 
he  held  the  Shire   

4.  Will.  s.  of  Rich.,  for  the  term  in 
which  he  held  the  Shire 

PURPRESTURES  AND  ESCHLATS. 

1.  Half  Hundred  of  Stanbr ige    2    o  o 

2.  Farm  of  Kenewich'    4  o 

3.  Land  of  Lambricbt    4  o 

4.  Meadow  of   Achelai    8  4 

5.  Farm  of  Turfeia.    5  o 

6.  Farm  of  the  hide  which  was  of 

Hugh  Hatecrist    150 

7.  Farm  of  i'Edulfesberga    11    6  o 

a.  to  Bernard  Cokus     ...    4  10  o 

b.  to  Will  Blundus       ...    5    o  o 

by  lands  granted         ...    9  10  o 

8.  Farm  of  Todingedon'  which  was 

of  Geoffrey  de  Pertico    11  19  5 

9.  Certain  land  divided  between  the 
King  and  Geoffrey  aforesaid  in  the 

same  vill    1  13  o 

10.  Perquisitions  of  the  same  vill    ...  297 

11.  Increment  of  Bruhella  for  land  of 

Will,  de  Rochella  of  that  vill    ...     2    o  o 

12.  Land  of  Robt.  Lescot  in  Ailesberia  135 

13.  Farm  of  the  land  of  Robt.  Pic- 
tauensis  in  Ailesberia    1  o 

14.  Proprestures  of  Luiton'    2  10  9 

15.  Moiety  of  the  dower  of  the  wife 

of  Henry  de  Port  this  yr   13  4 

16.  Eiton  for  i  yr.   from  that  part 

which  is  in  the  King's  hand    4  19  o 

17.  Farm  of  Edulfiberga  for  |  yr.  ...     4  17  6 

18.  Stock  sold  off  that  land    3   o  8 

19.  Revenue  of  Weston'  for  £  yr.  after 

the  death  of  Roger  de  Sanford'        3  10  1 

ao.  Gilbert   Morin,   for   the  farm  of 

Neweton'    13  4 


Paid.  Balance, 
s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 


10   0  0 


2   0  0* 

4  0# 

4  9* 
8  4* 

5  0# 

1   5  0* 

1  16  0 


11  19  5t 

1  13  Of 

2  9  7t 

2   0  Ot 

1  3  5t 

1  Ot 

2  10  9t 

13  4 

4  19  0 

4  17  6 

3  0  8 

3  10  1 

13  4 


4  hawks 
6  hawks 

28  hawks 

29  hawks 


By  6  tallies,  4I1.  6s.  4d.    f  By  7  tallies,  2ili.  17s.  2d. 


38 


ROLL   35  :    vi,  rii  A 


Yi  ARREARS. 

1.  Osbert  son  of  Richd.,  for  the  in- 
crement of  Bucks,  for  z\  yrs.  of 
the  time  that  his  father  held  the 
Shire  

2.  Will.  s.  of  Nigel,  for  Right  con- 
cerning a  mill  against  Robt.  de 
Broy  [1176J   

3.  Sh.,  for  Pleas  of  the  Forest  in 
Bedeford'  shire  [prob.  1178]   

<z.  to  Knighthood  of  the  Terrific, 
-pardon  by  liberty  of  royal  charter  8 

4.  Gilbt.  Passelewe,  for  Right  con- 
cerning a  fee  of  two  kts.,'  against 
Ralf  de  Wrocheshala  and  Thomas 
[1180]   

5.  Villate  of  Ailesberia,  for  murder 
C»83]   

6.  Villate  of  Luiton',  for  murder 
[1185]   

7.  Richd.  Ruffus,  for  moneys  re- 
ceived from  J£rn[ulf]  de  Maisi 
and  Phil.  Angl'  for  recording  in 
the  King's  Court  their  suit  in  the 
Court  of  Berchamsteda  [1184]  ... 

8.  Eust.  de  Graenuilla,  for  having  his 
land  which  was  of  Gerard  de 
Grainuilla  his  uncle,  66  li.  13s.  4d. 
But  Alan  de  Dunestanuilla  has  it 
in  the  Kg.'s  hand,  and  he  ought 
to  answer  thereof  [1184] 

yii  PLEAS  BEFORE  JUSTICES   IN  EYRE. 

TiiA  BEFORE     WILL.     DE     VER     AND  HIS 

FELLOWS,    1 1 85. 

1.  Sh.,  for  Bichleswade  Hundr.  for 
murder   

2.  Steph.  de  Torfeia,  for  land  of 
Hugh  s.  of  Will,  wrongfully  de- 
tained   

3.  Regin.  s.  of  Arnold,  because  he 
withdrew  from  his  appeal   

4.  Steph.  s.  of  Herbt.,  for  disseisin 

5.  Sh.,  for  Muleshou  Hundr.  for 
murder   

6.  Sh.,  for  Dusteberga  Hundr.  for 
murder   

7.  Ralf  Pistor,  for  pledge  of  Alueua 
and  Toka   


Due.  Paid.  Balance 

li.    a.  d.  li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  <i 

9  hawks 

200  200 

8  0   0  0 

368  368 

100  i    o  0 

168  168 

168  i    6  8 


12    8  12  S 

38  3  5 

6    8  6  8 

6    8  6  8 

15  15 

36  20             1  6 

5    4  5  < 


ROLL   35  : 


BEFORE  GEOFFREY  FITZ  PETER  : 
FOREST  PLEAS,  1185. 

1.  Alewi  de  Tiringeham,  for  an 
amercement  

a.  Godwin  Brunus  for  the  escape  of 
Will  

3.  Richd.  de  Tempi',  for  default  ... 

4.  John  de  Bekenesfeld',  for  default 

5.  Sh.,  for  wastes  essarts  pleas  and 
proprestures  of  the  Forest  of 
Bucks  

6.  Sh.,  for  wastes  essarts  pleas  and 
proprestures  in  Beds  

a.  to  Brethr.  of  the  Hosf.,  -pdn.  by 
liberty  of  royal  charter  ...  1    4  q 

7.  Wife  of  Ansgot,  for  wardship  of 
his  son  and  land   

[BEFORE  HUGH  DE  MOREWICH  AND 
HIS  FELLOWS,  1186.] 

8.  a.  Sh.,  for  Thorn.  Passelewe  for 
disseisin   

b.  Sh.,  for  Will.  s.  of  Ansketill  for 
false  claim   

9.  Will.  s.  of  Geoff.,  for  disseisin  ... 

10.  Payn  Blundus,  for  disseisin   

11.  Gundwin  de  Estcota,  because  he 
wrongfully  harassed  the  Jurors  ... 

12.  Walt.  s.  of  Nich.,  for  false  claim 

13.  Roger  Telar',  for  novel  disseisin 

14.  Alex,  le  Medier,  for  default   

OFFERINGS  TO  THE  COURT. 

15.  Fulk  de  Huggenden',  for  leave  to 
agree  with  Will,  de  Merlawe   

16.  Hamo  s.  of  Hamo  s.  of  Meinfelin, 
for  a  fine  of  his  father's  land   

17.  Adam  de  Sanford,  [on  behalf  of] 
Ralf  Morin  for  Money  of  Winches- 
ter which  was  stored  in  the  Tower 
of  Norhanton  and  lost  by  careless 
watch  [1187]   

BEFORE  GEOFFREY  FITZ  PETER  : 
FOREST    PLEAS,    1 1 87. 

1.  Sh.,  for  small  essarts  of  the  county 


iiB,  viiC  39 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

14   4  14  4 

18  18 

13    4  13  4 

10   o  40  60 

146  146 

149  000 

9  13   4  368  668 

8  8* 

52  5  2* 

3    4  3  4 

48  48 

3    4  3  4 

5  8  58 

6  8  6  8 
6    8             56  12 

4  13    8  16    4  317  4 

62    6   8  62   6  8 

368  368 

424  000  74 


By  2  tallies,  5s.  iod. 


40 


ROLL   35  :   vii  C  to  vii  E 


Due.  Paid.  Balaoct 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  e 

a.  to  Brethren  of  the  Huspita1 

!C  0 

b.  to  Knighthccd  of  the  Temfie 

3  5° 

fdn.  by  liberty  of  roycl  charter 

3  *5  ° 

2.  [Gilo]  de  Pmkeigni,  for  waste  ...      i    o    o  io   o  io  c 

3.  Villatc  of  Creendcn',  for  waste  ...168  x    6  J 

4.  Hamo  de  Padeburia,  for  waste  ...        10    o  10  0 

5.  Walt,    seruiens  of   Pidinton',  for 

trespass  of  the  Assise  of  Vert    6    8  6  £ 

6.  Robt.  faber  of  Bla-ielorn'  and  his 

fellows,  for  trespass  of  agistment  6    8  6  f 

7.  Sh.,  for  small  matters  of  certain 
men,  below  £  m.,  wnich  stand  over 

for  the  poverty  of  the  debtors    14    o  14  c 

viiD  BEFORE   RALF,   ARCHDEACON   OF  COL- 

CHESTER, AND  KIS  FEL7.0WS,  BEDS., 
llSS. 

1.  Frankpledge  of  Robt.  Colrun,  be- 
cause they  had  not  whom  they 
pledged    4  9 

2.  Sh.,  for  Mannesheued  Hur.dr.  for 
murder    4  3 

3.  Sh.,  for  Half  Hundr.  of  Bukelawe 
for  murder    5  1 

4.  Sh.,  for  Redburnestoche  Hundr. 
for  murder    40  4  0 

5.  Hugh  de  la  felda,  because  he  did 
not  sue    60  1  ix 

6.  Thomas  de  WrocheswelT,  for  dis- 
seisin   3    8  1  o 

7.  Richd.  de  Benehala,  for  disseisin         5  2 

8.  Walt,  de  Crawelea,  because  he  did^^l!^    fl-WW  '  r" 
not  sue    6   8  6  8 

vii  E  BEFORE  THE  SAME  IN  BUCKS. 

1.  Sh.,  for  Coteslawa  Hundr.  for 
murder    38  3  8 

2.  Hugn  de  Croston',  because  he  did 
not  sue    5  8 

3.  Sh.,  for  Hikeshelle  Hundr.  for 
r>urder    4  6 

4.  Sh.,  for  Burnham  Hundr.  for 
murder    5  3 

5.  Sh.,  for  Mulesho  Hundr.  for  mur- 
der  4  2 

6.  Richeward  de  Westberi,  because 
he  had  not  whom  he  pledged    1  4 

7.  Richd.  de  Padeberia,  for  pledge 
of  Peter    1  4 


ROLL   35:  vii 


8.  John  de  Fraxineto,  for  Ralf  and 
Roheise   

9.  Sh.,  for  Seggelawa  Hundr.,  for 
murder   

10.  Frankpledge  of  Ailward  de  Senlea, 
because  they  had  not  whom  they 
pledged   

11.  Peter  de  Litlecota,  for  pledge  of 
Cnichtwin   

12.  Hugh  s.  of  Waleran,  for  declara- 
tion of  a  hide  of  land,  against 
Robt.  de  Salceio   

13.  Helyas  de  Wauenden,  for  a  false 
claim   

14.  Will.  Decanus.  because  he  had  not 
whom  he  pledged   

t'«f.  Rich.  s.  of  Aldeua,  for  a  declara- 
tion agst.  Rich,  de  Cuerendon',  by 
pledge  of  Hen.  de  Stecton'   

16.  Rich,  de  Carun,  for  fine  of  land 
at  Schirinton'   

17.  Rich,  de  Carun,  for  scutage  of  two 
knights  of  the  army  of  Galloway 

VIJ  F  NEW    PLEAS    AND    NEW  AGREEMENTS 

BEFORE  GEOFFREY  FITZ  PETER,  RALF 
MURDAC,  MICH.  BELET,  AND  NIGEL  S. 


OF  ALEXANDER  IN  BEDS. 

1.  Sh.,  for  Half    Hundr.    of  Stan- 
brige  for  concealment   

a.  to  Canons  of  DunstafV  pdn. 
by  KgSs  writ    10 

2.  Rog.  s.  of  Will.,  for  leave  to  agree 

3.  Sh.,  for  Wictstanestr'  Hundr.  for 
murder   

a.  to  Monks  of  War  don    2  2 

b.  to  Brethren  of  the  Hosfital  ...2 

c.  to  Nuns  of  Chikesand    2 

d.  to  Monks  of  Bee    8 

e.  to  Bp.  of  Lincoln    2 

fdn.  by  Kg.'s  writ    3  4 


4.  Hugh    persona    of    Sandeie,  for 
disseisin   

5.  Sh.,  for  Binkelawe    Hundr.  for 
false  presentment   

6.  Robt.  s.  of  Ailric  de  Rauencsden', 
for  false  claim   


E,   vii  F  41 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 
li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

28  28 

3   2  3  3 

32  14             2  10 

22  22 

168  168 

13    4  13  4 

13   4  6   8              6  8 

33    6    8  33   6  8 

50  50 

13   4  85  41 

6    8  28  40 

100  16  8 

6    8  30  38 

10    o  76  26 

6    8  16  52 


42  ROLL   35  :    vii  F,   vii  G 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    3.  d.      li.    s.  d 

7.  Sh.,  for  small  amercements  of  men 
whose  names  debts  and  causes  of 
debt  are  noted  on  the  Roll  of  the 
aforesaid  which  he  has  delivered 

at  the  Treasury    8    6    8         8    6  8* 

8.  Rich.  s.  of  Aldiua,  for  false  claim         6    8  6  8 

9.  Ralf  s.  of  Edric,  because  he  had 

not  whom  he  pledged    6    8  6  8 

10.  Laur.    de    B  ikies  wade,    for  the 

same    6    8  6  8 

ix.  Eilbern  s.  of  Robt.,  for  the  same         6    8  6  8 

12.  Hen.   s.  of  /Edward,  because  he 

had  not  whom  he  pledged    68  68 

13.  Hugh  s.  of  /Edward,  for  the  same         6    8  6  8 

14.  Robt.  Piscator,  for  a  false  claim         6    8  6  8 

15.  Tithing  of  Gilbt.  de  Hoccliua,  for 

the  escape  of  Walter    6    8  6  8 

16.  Ralf  de  Stapelford  and  his  Tith- 
ing, for  the  escape  of  Geoffrey  ...  6    8  6  8 

17.  Hugh  s.  of  Peter  de  Kemeston, 

for  wrongful  disseisin    6    8  6  8 

viiG  PLEAS  OF  THE  SAME  IN  BUCKS. 

1.  John  s.  of  Will.,  because  he  had  not 

whom  he  vouched    6    8  42  26 

2.  Rich,  de  Gaherst,  for  the  same  ...         6    8  44  24 

3.  Ralf  de  Mureslea,  for  dyke  wrong- 
fully raised    6    8  3  65 

4.  Sh.,  for   Dusteberga   Hundr.  for 

murder    168  15    7  7 

a.  to  Geoffrey  the  Chancellor  2  8 

b.  to  Canons  of  Kenillewurda  2  8 

c.  to  Bp.  of  Winchester    5  2 

fdn.  by  Kg.'s  writ    10  6 

5.  [S]imon  s.  of  Hamo,  because  he 

had  not  whom  he  pledged    6    8  34  3  4 

6.  Sh.,  for  Mureslea  Hundr.  for  mur- 
der   13    4  10  10  1  ° 

a.  to-  Church  of  St.  Aldan  ...  /  j 

b.  to  Monks  of  Woburn    2 

c.  to  Brethren  of  the  Hospital  ...  / 

fdn.  by  Kg.'s  wit    /  6 

7.  Sh.,  for  small  amercements  of  men 
whose  names  debts  and  causes  of 
debt  are  noted  on  the  Roll  of  the 
aforesaid  which  he  has  delivered 

at  the  Treasury    300         3    0  Ot 


#  By  23  tallies,  81i.  6s.  Cd. 


t  By  8  tallies,  3U. 


ROi^l*   35  :   vii  G 


43 


8.  Will,  de  Ba!>teg:aue,  because  be 
had  not  whoin  he  pledged   

9.  Walt,  de  Bidun,  for  a  raise  claim 

10.  Ralf  forestar',  because  he  had  not 
whom  he  vouched  

xi.  Mich.  s.  of  Azo,  for  ^  false  claim 

ia.  [R]alf  molend',  for  (the  same} 
default  

13.  John  mercator,  for  default   . 

14.  Robt.  Fullo,  because  he  had  not 
whom  he  pledged   

15.  Jordan  mercator,  for  thv3  same  ... 

x6.  Robt.  mercator  [de]  Olnea,  for 
[the  same]   

17.  [B]arth.  decanns,  for  the  pledge 
of  Robert  whom  he  pledged  for 
the  death  of  Walt.  s.  of  Osmund 

18.  [R]ich.  de  Schirinton,  for  dis- 
seisin   

OFFERINGS  TO  THE  COURT. 

19.  [HJugh  de  Nuers,  for  fine  of  his 
brother's  land  of  the  Honour  of 
Earl  Giffard   ,  

20.  [S]ibilla  wid.  of  Harao  s.  of  Ber- 
ner,  for  wardship  of  the  land  of 
her  husband  and  of  his  heirs   

21.  [Wi]ll.  de  Flete,  for  having  his 
plea  in  the  Kg.'s  Court  concerning 
a  hide  of  land  agst.  Ralf  de  Broy 

22.  [Ur]ban  de  Herlingedon  for  hav- 
ing in  the  Kg.'s  Court  his  plea 
which  is  in  the  Shire  Court  agst. 
Robt.  de  Parentin  and  Matilda 
his  wife  concerning  a  hide  of  land 
in  Berton   

23.  [Elyas]  clerk  of  the  Sh.,  for  Right 
concerning  his  mortgage  of  Stan- 
ton   

24.  John  Cabuis,  that  his  plea  concern- 
ing 15s.  of  rent  agst.  Ralf  de 
Hugenden*  may  be  before  the 
Justices  


Due.  Paid.  Balance. 

H.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.      H.    a.  d. 

6   8  6  8 

200  a   o  o 

6   8  6  8 

6   8  6  8 

6   8  6  8 

6   8  6  8 

6   8  6  8 

6   8  6  8 

6   8  6  8 

100  100 

*3   4  .    '3  4 

*3   6   8  634  734 

7  13   4  7  13  * 

13   4  13  4 

100  100 

168  168 

13    4  »3  4 


4< 


ROLL    36  :    i  to  III 


ROLL  36  :   2  RIC.  I  :  1190. 

MEMBRANE  12  DORSO. 


Due.  Paid.  Balance 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  u 

i  FARM  OF  THE  SHIRES. 

WiH,  Ruffus  for  the  farm  of  Bucks. 

and  Beds   I26  17    2  bl. 

108   o   o  no. 

ii  ALLOWANCES. 

ii  A     /•  Knighthood  of  the  Temple  168 

2.  Brethren  of  the  Hospital  of 

Witsand    1  10  $ 

ii  C     /.  Robt.  s.  of  Fulcher  of  Oxineford' 

3   o  10 

jn.  John  Pedefer  by  charter  ...14  5 
and  from  now  ili.  10s.  $d.  yearly 

ii  D     /.  Monks  of  Woburn  in  mill  of 

Leocton''    1  12  o 

2.  Brethr.  of  the  Hosp.  of  Witsant, 
in  BruhelV    j    0    o  no. 

3.  The  same,  in  Luiton*    200 

5.  Nuns  of  Fontevrault ,  in  Leochtan' 

48    8    o  no. 

6.  The  same,  in  Radeneche  400  no. 

7.  The  same,  in  BrichulV  1  12    o  no. 

8.  Wischard  Leidet,  in  Hyda  de 
Hulmo    1  10    o  no. 

0.  Roger  Foil,  lutrarius,  in  Ailesberia 
in  the  land  which  was  of  /Ernis 
reeve    16  o 

jo.  Engelram  de  Fenles,  in  W endoura 
and  Eiton    bo    o    o  no. 

11.  Hugh  de  G  our  nay  in  Hoc  ton  and 
appurtenances    40    o    o  bl. 

i2n.  Bald,  de  Bettona  in  Luiton  for  \ 

year    40    o    o  bl. 

and  from  now  the  whole 

i$n.  In  the  vill  of  Bedeford,  account 
rendered  below    40    o    o  bl. 

ii  E     4.  Repairs  to  the  Gaol  of  Ailesberia 

2  0 

And  he  is  quit 

iii  FARM  OF  THE  BURGH. 

1.  Burgesses  of  Bedford  for  farm  of 

the  burgh    40   o    o  40   0  0 


New  entry. 


ROLL   36  :  iv 


INCREMENT  AND  BALANCE. 

1.  Oger  s.  of  Oger  for  increment  of 
Bucks,  for  the  past  year   

2.  The  same  for  i£  years  past   

3.  Sh.,  for  7£  years  increment   

4.  Will.  s.  of  Rich,  for  increment  for 
the  term  in  which  he  had  the  shire 

5.  Osbert  s.  of  Rich,  for  increment  of 
Bucks,  for  2\  years  of  his  father's 
time  [cf.  35/vi/i]   

6n.  Sh.  for  increment  of  Bucks,  [cur- 
rent year]   

PURPRESTURES  AND  ESCHEATS. 

1.  Half  Hunci.  of  Stanbrige   

2.  Farm  of  Henewich   

3.  Land  of  Lambricht   

4.  Meadow  of  Achelay  

6.  Farm  of  1  hide  which  was  of 
Hugh  Hatecrist   

11.  Increment  of  BruhelP  for  land  of 
Will;  de  Rochelle  of  that  vill   

12.  [Accounted  in  37/V/12;  compare 
36/1XA/15] 

13.  Farm  of  the  land  of  Robt.  Picta- 
vensis  in  Ailesberia   

14.  Purprestures  of  Luiton  for  £  year 

ARREARS. 

2.  Will.  s.  of  Nigel  [as  35/vi/2]  ... 

4.  Gilbt.  Passelewe  for  Right  in  the 
matter  of  a  fee  of  2  kts.  agst.  Ralf 
and  Thos.  de  Wrocheshal'  but 
neither  has  Right  [1180]   

5.  Villate  of  Ailesberia,  for  murder 
[1183]   

6.  Villate  of  Luiton,  for  murder 
["85]   

7.  Rich.  Ruffus,  ili.  6s.  8d.,  for 
money  received  from  Ernulf  de 
Maisi  and  Phil.  Angl'  for  record- 
ing in  the  Kg.'s  Court  their  suit 
brought  in  the  Court  of  Bercarn- 
steda — but  for  these  and  other  his 
debts  he  made  fine  with  the  Kg., 
and  accounted  in  Wiltesir'  by  fine 
of  1000  li.  as  is  witnessed  by  the 
Kg.'s  charter  which  he  has  [11S4] 


to  vi  45 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s  d.       li.    s.  d. 

4  hawks 
6  hawks 

28  hawks 

29  hawks 


9  hawks 

10    o    o  10    o   o  4  hawks 

200  2   0  0* 
40  4  0* 

40  4  0* 

84  8  4* 

150  150* 

200  2   0  Ot 

10  1  Of 

154  154 

200  200 

368  368 
100  100 
168  168 


t  By  a  tallies,  2I1.  is.  od. 


46  ROLL   30:   viiA,  vii  B 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d        li.    a.  d.       li.    a.  d. 

ii  A  BEFORE  WILL.   J3E  VLM  AND  KIS  FEL- 

LOWS, I1S5. 

1.  Sh.,  for  Bicleswade    Hand.,  for 

murder   12   8         0   0  0 

a.  to  Ch.  of  Lin  colt,  $dn.  by 
liberty  of  toycl  charter   12  S 

2.  Steph.  de  Torfeia  (as  35/viiA/a]  38  34  4 

3.  Regin.  s.  of  yExnold,    for  with- 
drawal  6   8  6  8 

4.  Steph.  s.  of  Herbt.  for  disssisi&«.  '68  ,68 

6.  Sh.,    for    Dusteberge    Hund.  for 

murder   16         0    0  0 

a.  to  Ch,  of  Lincoln,  -pdn.  by 
liberty  of  royal  charter   /  o 

7.  Ralf  pistor,  for  pledge  o-.  Alueua 

and  Toka,  but  they  have  nothing  54  54 

ii  B  BEFORE       GEOFFREY      FITZ      PFTER  : 

FOREST  PLEAS,  1185. 

1.  Alewi  de  Tiringeham  by  way  of 

gift  (de  dono)    14    4  13   o  14 

2.  Godwin  brunus.  for  the  escape  of 

William   1    8  18 

3.  Rich,  de  Tempi'  for  default    13    4         0    0  0 

a.  to  Knighthood  of  the  Temfle, 

fdn.  by  liberty  of  royal  charter 

IS  4 

4.  John  de  Bekenesfeld,  for  default  ...  60  30  30 

5.  Sh.,  for  wastes  essarts  pleas  and 
purprestures    of    the    Forest  of 

Bucks   146  000 

a.  to  Will.  Afaresc\  fdn.  by  royal 
writ  for  7  marks  which  he  -pro- 
duced   146 

7.  Wife  of  Ansgot  for  custody  of  his 

son  and  land    6    6   8  13   4  5  13  4 

[BEFORE    HUGH    DE   WOREWICH  AND 
HIS  FELLOWS,,  Il86] 

9.  Will.  s.  of  Geoff.,  for  disseisin  ...         3   4  4  30 

10.  Payn  Blundus,  for  disseisin    48  4  ^ 

11.  Gundwin     de     Estcota     [as  in 

35/viiB/n]    34  34 

12.  Walt.  s.  of  Nich.,  for  false  claim  58  5  8 

13.  Rog.  Telar',  for  novel  disseisin  ...  6    8  6  8 

14.  Alex,  le  Medier,  for  default    12  1  * 

15.  Fulk     de     Hugenden     [as  in 

35/viiB/is)    3'7   4  '5   4  3   3  0 

16.  Hamo.  s.  of  Hamo  s.  of  Meinfelin, 

[as  35/viiB/i6]    62    6    S        35  15   o        36  n  s 


ROLL   36  :   vii  C  to  vii  E 


47 


Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 

v  n  C  BEFORE      GEOFFREY      FITZ      PETER  : 

FOREST  PLEAS,  II 87. 

1.  Sh.,  for  small  essarts  in  Beds.  ...  74                                 7  A 

2.  Gilo  de  Pinkeigni,  for  waste    10   o                                10  o 

3.  Villate  of  Creendon,  for  waste  ...  168  000 
a.  to  Will.  Maresc\  fdn.  by  royal 

writ  for  seven  marks  which  he  -pro- 
duced   168 

4.  Hamo  de  Padeberia,  for  waste  ...        10   o  10  o 

5.  Walt,  seruiens  de  Pidinton  for 
trespass  of  the  assise  of  vert, 

6s.  8d. 

6.  Robt.  faber  of  Blaketorn  and  his 
fellows,  for  trespass  of  agistment, 
6s.  Sd. 

But  they  [Nos.  5  and  6]  are  to  be 
summoned  in  Oxon. 

7.  Sh.   [as  35/viiC/7.3    14   o  14  o 

vii  D  PLEAS  BEFORE  RALF  ARCHDEACON  OF 

COLCHESTER  AND  HIS  FELLOWS,  1 1 88. 

1.  Frankpledge  of  Robt.  Colrun  [as 

35/viiD/r]    49  49 

2.  Sh.,  from  Mannesheued  Hund.  for 

murder    43  19  26 

3.  Sh.,  from  Half  Hund.  of  Bukelawa 

for  murder    51  51 

5.  Hugh  de  la  Felda,  because  he  did 

not  sue    41  4  39 

6.  Thos.  de  Wrocheshull'  for  disseisin  28  28 

7.  Rich,  de  Benehala,  for  disseisin...  52  52 

Vii  E  PLEAS  BEFORE  THE  SAME  IN  BUCKS. , 

Il88. 

2.  Hugh  de  Croston,  because  he  did 

not  sue    58  58 

3.  Sh.,  from  Hikeshelle    Hund.  for 

murder    46         0   0  0 

a.  to  Will.  Maresc' ',  fdn.  by  liberty 
of  a  seat  at  the  Exchequer  ...  4.  6 

4.  Sh.,    from    Burnham    Hund.  for 

murder    5   3         0   0  0 

a.  to  Geoff,  fitz  Peter,  fdn.  by 
liberty  of  a  seat  at  the  Exchequer 

5  3 

5.  Sh.,  from  Mulesho  Hund.  for  mur- 
der  42  4  2 

6.  Richeward  de  Westbiri,  for  es- 
treated pledge    14  ^  * 

7.  Rich,  de  Padeberia,  for  pledge  of 

Peter    14  «  i 


48 


ROLL   36:    vii  B,  vii  F 


Due.  Paid.  Balance 

H.    s.  d.  li.    3.  d.  li.    s.  d. 

8.  John  de  Fraxineto,  for  Ralf  and 

Roheise                                                  28  20  8 

10.  Frankpledge  of  Ailward  de  Senlea, 

for  estreated  pledge    2  10  2  10 

11.  Peter  de   Litlecota  for  pledge  of 

Cnithwin    22  2  2 

12.  Hugh    s.    of    Waleran     [as  in 

35/viiE/i2]    i    6    8  i    6  8 

13.  Helyas    de   Wauenden,    for  false 

claim    58  10  48 

14.  Will.  Decanus,  for  estreated  pledge         13    4  *3  4 

15.  Rich.  s.  of  Aldeua  [as  35/viiE/i5]  6    8  6  8 

16.  Rich,  de  Carun,   for  fine  of  the 

land  of  Schirinton    33    6    8        33    6  8 

17.  Rich,   de  Carun,   for   scutage  of 

2  kts.  of  the  army  of  Galloway  ...  50  5  0 

Vii  F  PLEAS  BEFORE  GEOFF.  FITZ  PETEK  AND 

HIS  FELLOWS  :  BEDS.,  1 1 89. 

1.  Sh.,    from    Half  Hund.  of  Stan- 

brige,  for  concealment    41  41 

2.  Rog.  s.  of  Will.,  for  leave  to  agree         40  40 

4.  Hugh  persona  of  Sandeia,  for  dis- 
seisin   38  20  1  S 

5.  Sh.,  from  Binkelewade  Hund.,  for 

false  presentment   26  26 

6.  Robt.  s.  of  Ailric  of  Rauenesden, 

for  false  claim    52  30  22 

8.  Rich.  s.  of  Aldiua,  for  false  claim  6    8  6  S 

q.  Ralf  s.   of  JBdric,   for  estreated 

pledge   6   8  6  8 

10.  Laur.    de    Bikeleswada,    for  the 

same    6    8  6  8 

11.  Eilbern  s.  of  Robt.,  for  estreated 

pledge    6    8  *   o  2  S 

12.  Hen.  s.  of  Edward,  for  the  same         6    8  6  8 

13.  Hugh  s.  of  /Edward,  for  the  same  6    8  10  5  8 

14.  Robt.  piscator,  for  false  claim  ...         6    8  6  8 

15.  Tithing  of  Gilbt.  de  Hoccliua,  for 

escape  of  Walt   6    8  6  S 

16.  Ralf  de  Stapelford,  for  escape  of 

Geoff   6    8  12  s  u 

17.  Hugh  s.  of  Pet.  de  Kemeston,  for 

wrongful  disseisin    6    8  6  8 


ROLL  36: 


viiG  PLEAS    EFFOW.E    THE    AKOfiESAID  TO* 

BUCKS.,  II&Q. 

1.  John  s.  of  Will,  [as  35/yiiG/x]  ... 

2.  Rich,  de  Gaherst,  for  the  same  ... 

3.  Ralf  de  Mureslea.  for  a  dyke 
wrongfully  raised  

4.  Sh.,  from  Dustleberga  Hund.  for 
murder     ,  .  

a.  to  Ch.  of  Lincoln,  fdn.  by 
liberty  of  royal  charter   ,..  7 

5.  Sim.  s.  of  Rarao,  for  estreated 
pledge  

6.  Sh.}  from  Mureslea  Hund.,  for 
murder   

S.  Will,  de  Babbegraue,  for  estreated 
pledge   

9.  Walt,  de  Bidun,  for  false  claim  ... 

10.  Ralf  forestarius    [as  55/viiG/io] 

11.  Mich.  s.  of  Azo,  for  false  claim  ... 

12.  Ralf  molendinarius,  for  default  ... 

13.  John  mercator,  for  default   

14.  Robt.  FuBo,  for  estreated  pledge- 

15.  Jordan  mercator,  for  the  same  ... 

16.  Robt.  mercator  de  Olnea,  for  the 
same     

17.  Barth.    Decanus    [as  35/VHG/17] 

18.  Rich,  de  Schirinton,  for  disseisin 

19.  Hugh  de  Nuers,  for  fine  of  the 
lands  of  his  bro.,  of  the  Honour  of 
Earl  Giffard   

22.  Urban  de  Herlingedon',  [as  in 
35/viiG/22]   

23.  FJyas.  clericus,  for  Right  concern- 
ing' a  mortgage  in  Stanton   

24.  John  Cabuis,  13s.  4d.,  that  his 
irlea  for  15s.  rent  agst.  Ralf  de 
Hugeden  be  before  the  Justices, 
but  it  is  to  be  demanded  in 
Middlesex 


vii  G  49 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

26  10  16 

24  18  8 

65  2  63 

7  0   0  0 

3   4  10              2  4 

1    o  10 

6   8  6  8 

200  200 

6   8  6  8 

6   8  6  8 

6    8  6  8 

6    8  6  62 

6   8  6  62 

6   8  34              3  4 

6    8  6  8 

IOO  TOO 

13   4  13  4 

7    3    4  6  13    4             10  0 

100  too 

168  168 


50  ROLL   36  :   vii  H  to  yiii  B 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 

Vii  H  BEFORE  GEOFF.   FITZ  PETER  AND  HIS 

FELLOWS  :  PLEAS  AND  WASTES  OF  THE 
FOREST,  BEDS. 

in.  Sh.,  from  Barth.    de   Lega,  for 

waste    6   8  6  8t 

2n.  Sh.,  from  Archdeacon  of  Roches- 
ter, for  default    13   4  13  4t 

3n.  Robt.  de  Russenden,  because  he 
had  not  the  warrantor  whom  he 

vouched    6   8  6  8 

4n.  Sh.,  for  small  items  of  the  Forest 
below  £  mk.,  he  has  the  items  and 

names  of  the  debtors    5  14    3         3  17    8  1  13  7 

a.  to  Knighthood  of  the  Temfle, 
fdn.  by  liberty  of  royal  charter  3  o 

Vii  J  BEFORE  THE  SAME  IN  BUCKS. 

in.  Sh.,  from  Aubrey  de  Ver  for  waste         6    8  6  8* 

an.  Sh.,  from  Pet.  s.  of  Adam,  for 

the  same    6   8  6  8* 

3n.  Bernard  de  sancto  Walerico  for 

waste    6   8         0   0  0 

a.  to  Osbert  s.  of  Rich.,  fdn.  by 

Kg.'s  writ    6  8 

4n.  Sh.,  small  items  below  \  mk.  of 

which  he  has  the  items  and  names 

of  the  debtors    11    1    3         9    8   6  1    5  9 

a.  to  Will.  Marcsc\  fdn.  by  the 
before  mentioned  royal  writ  for 
7  mk.  which  he  froduced  ...    7  o 

viiiA  SCUTAGE   OF   WALES     IN     BEDS.  [AT 

IOS.] 

in.  Robt.  de  Albeneio,  for  his  knights    12  10   o  12  10  o 

an.  Sim.  de  Bello  campo    22  17  10         800         14  17  10 

3n.  {Walt.}    Sim.  de  Wahella,  for 

his  knights    13  10    o         700  6  10  o 

viii  B       the  same  sojtage  in  bucks. 

in.  Walt,   de  Windr'  and  Will,  de 

Windr'    918  918 

an.  Will.  Mald[uit]  chamberlain    17    6                                17  6 

3n.  Aubrey  de  Ver,  for  the  fief  which 

was  of  Walt,  de  Bolebech    5    o   o         5    0  0 

4n.  Rich,    de    Schirinton,    for  his 

knights    100  100 

5n.  Herbt.  de  Bolebec    10   o                                10  o 

6n.  Rich.  s.  of  Nigel    15   o            15  0 

7n.  Hugh  de  Chahaignes,  for  |  kt.  6    8                                 6  8 


n.  New  entry.  t  By  2  tallies,  lli.  os.  od. 

*  By  2  tallies,  13s.  4d. 


ROLL   36  :   viii  B,  ix  A 


51 


Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.   s.  d.       li.   s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 
8n.  Hamo.  s.  of  Hamo  s.  of  Meinfelin     7100         3100  400 

gn.  Hen.  de  Pinkeigni    6  15    o  6  15  o 

ion.  Milo  de  Bello  campo,  for  the  fief 

of  John  de  Bidun  in  Bucks   15    o  15  0 

nn.  Hugh  de  Bello  campo,  the  same 
scuta  ge    in    this    county    as  the 

sheriff  says    100  100 

i2n.  Gervas  Painell  for  the  scutage  of 
his  kts.  whom  the  Sh.  could  get  up 

to  the  present    3  19    2         3  19  2 

i3n.  Hen.  de  Nouo  Mercato  for  scut- 
age of  kts.  whom  Sh.  could  get  up 

to  the  present   10   o  10  0 

i4n.  Sh.,  scutage  of  kts.   in  Bucks, 
from  whom  he  could  draw  up  to 

the  present    2  13   6         2  13  6* 

a.  Earl  Aubrey    4  9 

b.  Agnes  de  Munchenesi  ...  13  o 

c.  Robt.  s.  of  Roger    2  o 

d.  Robt.  de  Pinkeigni    15  o 

e.  Fief  of  the  Advocate  of 
Betton    7  6 

f.  John  Visdelu   5  o 

g.  John  de  Cranford    5  o 

h.  John  s.  of  Hugh    1  3 

[2  13  6] 

i5n.  Sh.,  scutage  of  William  de 
TureuilT  of  the  fee  of  the  Earl  of 

Leicester    1  10   o         1  10  Of 

i6n.  Sh.,  scutage  of  Will,  le  Mansel  of 

the  fee  of  the  Earl  of  Chester    10   o  10  Of 

i7n.  Sh.,  scutage  of  Hugh  Gargate  of 

the  fee  of  Earl  Warenn'    10   o  10  Of 

IX  A  NEW  PROMISES. 

in.  Hen.  de  Clinton,  for  lawful  share 
of  the  land  of  John  de  Bidun 
which  falls  to  him  with  his  w. 

Amice    13   6   8        13    6  8 

2n.  Will,  de  Bochland,  for  seisin  of 
the  vill  of  Weston  which  was  of 
Rog.  de  Sanford,  and  after  seisin 

he  will  stand  to  his  Right    100   00        9068  9  13  4 

3n.  Hamund  Passelewe  for  Right  of 
the  inheritance  of   his   w.  agst. 

Hugh  de  Chaucumba  and  his  w.     3    6    8  3    6  8 

4n.  Will.  Maresc'  for  a  moiety  of  the 
land  of  Earl  Giffard  [two  instal- 
ments ;    a    third    instalment  in 

36/ixA/22]   1333   6   8      695   6   o       638   o  8 


n.  New  entry.  *  By  8  tallies, 

f  By  3  tallies,  2li.  ios.  od. 


52 


ROLL    36:    ix  A 


Due.  Paid.  Balance 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  . 

511.  Eust.  de  Greienuilla,  for  fine  of 
his  land  whereof  the  Kg.  disseised 

him    66  13    4        66   6   8  6  8 

6n.  Sim.  de  Bello  campo,  for  custody 

of  the  castle  of  Bedef    100    o    o       100    0  0 

7n.  Ralf  Gibcwin,  for  seisin  of  4IL 

of  land  in  Weuedon'   500  200  300 

8n.  Will,  de  Stodham  for  declaration 
of  i£  kt.'s  fee  in  Stodham  agst. 
Robt.  de  Stodham  and  the  daus. 

of  Jordan  his  uncle    10    o    o  10   o  o 

on.  Jordan  Lenueise,  for  Right  con- 
cerning land  in  Bereford  Boleherst 
and  Buggenden  agst.  Robt.  s.  of 

Ralf    10   o   o  10   o  o 

ion.  Gilbt.  de  Maperteshala  for  Right 
and  judgment  of  the  lands  which 
he  claims  as  belonging  to  the  ser- 

jeanty  which  he  holds  of  the  Kg.    13    6    8  13    6  8 

1  in.  Hugh  de  Haueresham,  for  de- 
claration of  the  wood  of  Hauere- 
sham, whether  it  belongs  to  his 
vill  of   Haueresham  or   the  Kg. 

ought  to  have  it  in  demesne    20    o    o        20    0  0 

i2n.  Alan  de  Dunestaneuilla  for  the 
stewardship  of  the  land  of  Earl 

Giffard    10    o   o         0    0  0 

a.  to  Alan  because  he  had  not  the 
aforesaid  stewardship  t  -pdn.  by  the 

ftg.'s  writ    10    o  0 

i3n.  Will,  de  Gerpunuilla,  for  leave  to 
marry  his  niece  to  Herbt.  de  Bole- 

bech    6  13    4         6  13  4 

i4n.  Robt.  s.  of  Ralf  s.  of  Bernard,  for 
record  of  the  Court  of  the  Abbot  of 
Ramesia  touching  fine  made  be- 
tween his  f.  and  Hen.  Lenueise  ...    16  13    4  16  13  4 

I5n.  Will,  de  Sainte  Mere  Eglise,  for 
the  land  of  Robt.  Lescot  in  Ailes- 

beria  [compare  37/V/12]    6  13    4  6  13  4 

i6n.  The  Barons  of  the  County  of 
Beds,  for  disafforesting  that  part 
of  the  Shire  which  King  Henry  I 

afforested    200    00        53  16    o        146    4  0 

i7n.  The  Burgesses  of  Bedford,  to 
have  their  burgh  at  fee  farm  and 
their  liberties  according  to  their 

charter    53   6    8  53   6  8 

i8n.  Sh.,  revenue  of  Swaneburn,  which 

was  of  Robt  de  Tenerchebrai    218    7         2  18  7 


n.  New  entry 


ROLL   36  :   ix  A 


53 


Due. 
li.   s.  a. 

ign.  Bertram  de  Verdun,  for  §  cf  the 
garnishing  oi  2  ships  which  were 
of  Will,  de  Stuteuilla    93    o  4 

a.  to  the  Kg.  himself  in  Normandy 

66  13  4 

b.  to  Gilbt.  Pi-par d  fur 
the  garnishing  which 
Hugh    Bardclf  received 

in  Scipton  Castle    113  4 

fdn.  by  Kg.'s  writ  ...  [uo    6  8] 

2on.  Gilbt.  Pipard,  for  £  of  the 
garnishing  of  2  ships  wirch  were 
of  Will,  de  Stuteuilla    46  10  2 

a.  to  the  Kg.  himself  by  his  writ 
46  10  2 

21  n.  Rich,  de  Windr',  for  enrolment 
on  the  Great  Roll  that  Matilda 
dau.  of  Rich,  de  Euueneia  in  the 
Court  of  the  Lord  Kg.  before  the 
Barons  of  the  Exchequer  quit- 
claimed to  the  sd.  Rich,  and  to 
whomsoever  he  appointed  the 
whole  of  Euueneia  from  her  and 
her  heirs  for  ever,  which  she  had 
claimed  agst.  the  sd.  Rich,  in  the 
Kg.'s  ccurt  by  the  Kg.Js  writ  : 
and  that  for  this  quitclaim  Rich, 
gave  to  Matilda  1  mk.  of  silver 
before  the  Barons  of  Exchequer  ...  6  8 

22n.  Will.  Maresc',  for  a  muiety  of  the 
land  of  Earl  Giffard  [continued 
from  ixA/4  above]    638    o  8 

a.  to  Will.  Maresc',  fdn.  by  Kg.'s 
writ  of  the  1333U.  6s.  8d.  which 
he  promised  for  his  share  of  the 
land    333    6  8 

b.  paid  by  Will.  Maresc' 
into  Treasury  oi  Nor- 
mandy by  the  Chancel- 
lor's writ  and  by  testi- 
mony of  Will.  s.  of  Ralf, 
seneschal  of  Normandy , 
and    by    -precept    of  the 

Kg.  from  overseas    133    6  8 

466  13  4 


Paid.  Balance, 
li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 


24  13  8 


0   0  0 


6  8 


000       171    7  4 


n.  New  entry. 


54  ROLL  37  :   i  to  ii  F 

ROLL  37:   3  RIG.  I:  1191. 

MEMBRANE  4. 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d 

£  FARM  OF  THE  SHIRES. 

Will.  Ruffus,  for  the  farm  of  Bucks. 

and  Beds   85   4    1  bl. 

75  1  a  10  no. 

ii  ALLOWANCES. 

ii  A    /.  Knighthood  of  the  Temple  168 

2.  Brethren  of  the  Hospital  of  Wits  ant 

1  10  5 

ii  C     /.  Robt.  s.  of  Fulcher  of  Oxinef 

3   o  10 

3.  John  Piet  de  Fer    /  10  5 

iiD     /.  Monks  of  Woburn  in  mill  of  Leoc- 

ton'    1  12  o 

2.  Brethren  of  the  Hospital  of  Wit- 
sand,  in  BruhelV   ...    3    o    o  no. 

3.  The  same,  in  Luiton'  ...    2    o  o 

5.  Nuns  of  Fontevrault,  in  Leocton* 

48    8    o  no. 

6.  The  same,  in  Radeneche  400  no-. 

7.  The  same,  in  BrichulV    1  12    o  no. 

8.  Wischard  Leidett  in  Hyda  de 
Hulmo    1  10    o  no. 

9.  Roger  Foil  lutrarius,  in  Ailesberia 
in  the  land  which  was  of  /Emis 
reeve    16  o 

10.  Engelram  de  Fenles,  in  Wendoura 
and  Eiton    60    o    o  no. 

11.  Hugh  de  Gurnay,  in  Hocton*  and 
appurtenances    40    o    o  bl. 

12.  Bald,  de  Betton\  in  Luiton* 

80   o   0  bl. 

13.  In  the  vill  of  Bedeford %  account 
rendered  below    40    o    o  bl. 

ii  E    3.  Repairs  to  the  Gaol  of  Bedeford 

*4  3 

4.  Repairs  to  the  Gaol  of  Ailesberia 

4  4 

5«.  To  Gilbert  de  Maisnil  by  writ  of 

the  Chancellor    20    o  o 

ii  F    ?n.  For  conveyance  of  Arnold  de  Pul- 

locheshulla  to  Northampton    6 

2n.  For  taking  two  thieves  from  Ailes- 
beria to  Bedeford  and  doing  jus- 
tice on  them    /  9 

And  he  owes  x*   7   3  c° 


n.  New  entry. 


ROLL   37  :   HI  to  ri 


55 


gj  FARM  OF  THE  BURGH. 

Burgesses  of  Bedeford,  for  farm  of 
the  burgh,  last  year  40H.  os.  od., 
this  year  4oli.  os.  od.  [pd.  in  two 

instalments]   

c.  Fixed  Alms  to  Thos.  uenator ,  of 
the  alms  which  were  of  Biland 
ualtrarius,  two  years  [4U.  us.  jd. 
after  blanching]    y    6  8 

»V  INCREMENT  AND  BALANCE. 

i.  and  2.  Oger,  s.  of  Oger,  for  in- 
crement of  Bucks,  for  2%  years  past 
when  he  had  the  shires   

3.  and  6.  Sh.,  for  8£  years  increment 

4.  Will.  s.  of  Rich,  [as  36/^/4]   

5.  Osbert  s.  of  Rich,  [as  36/iv/5]  ... 
jn.  Sh.,  increment  of  Bucks,  [current 

year] 

*  PURPRESTURES  AND  ESCHEATS. 

1.  Half  Hund.  of  Stanbrige   

2.  Farm  of  Henewich   

3.  Land  of  Lambricht   

4.  Meadow  of  Akelay   

6.  Farm  of  1  hide  which  was  of  Hugh 
Hatecrist  

11.  Increment  of  Bruhell',  for  land 
of  Will,  de  Rochella  of  that  vill  ... 

12.  Will,  de  ste.  Mere  Eglise,  for  the 
land  which  was  of  Robt.  Lescot 
in  Ailesberia  for  the  past  year, 
$s. ;  for  this  year,  5s.  ;  account 
rendered  below  [ixA/15] 

13.  Farm  of  the  land  of  Will.  Picta- 
vensis  in  Ailesberia   

2in.  Farm   of    Swaneburne,   for  last 

year   

And  the  balance  remains  against 
John  Marescallus,  says  the  Sh. 

22n.  The  same,  for  this  year   

vi  ARREARS. 

2.  Will.  s.  of  Nigel  [as  35/vi/2]   

4.  Gilbt.  Passelewe,  for  Right  in  the 
matter  of  a  fee  of  2  kts.  agst. 
Ralf  and  Thos.  de  Wrocheshala, 
but  he  has  not  Right  yet  [1180] 

5.  Villate  of  Ailesberia,  for  murder 
[1183]   

6.  Villate    of    Luiton,    for  murder 

[»8S]   

on.  Jordan  clericus  de  Hameleden', 
for  default   


Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 


80  o   o  bl.    75  13  4 


10  hawks 
32  hawks 
29  hawks 
9  hawks 

10   o   o        10   o   o  4  hawks 


200  2    0  0* 

40  4  0* 

40  4  0* 

84  8  4* 

150  150* 

200         2   0  Of 

10  1  Of 

420         2  18   7  i35 

420  420 

200  a   o  o 

368  368 

100  100 

168  168 

33    6   8  33   6  8 


n.  New  entry.  *  By  5  tallies,  4H.  is.  4d. 

f  By  2  tallies,  all.  is.  od. 


56  ROLL    37  :    vii  A   to  vii  D 


vii  B 


vii  C 


viiD 


Due. 

Pel 

id. 

Balanre 

li. 

s. 

d. 

li.  s. 

d. 

K 
11 . 

s. 

BEFORE  WILL.   DE  VER  AND  HIS  FEL- 

LOWS, 1 185. 

2. 

Steph.  de  Torfeia  [as  35/viiA/2] 

4 

4 

3- 

R[egin.]  s.  of  /Ern[ald],  for  with- 

0 

0 
0 

6 

8 

4« 

Steph.  s.  of  Herbt.,  for  disseisin  ... 

0 

0 
0 

2 

0 
0 

4 

•> 

7- 

5 

4 

5 

<; 

PEFORE  GEOFF.  FITZ  PETER  :  FOREST 

FLEAS,   1 185. 

i. 

Alewi  de  Tiringeham,  by  way  of 

r 

4 

1 

4 

2. 

Godwin  brunus,  for  the  escape  of 

1 

8 

1 

4- 

John   de   Kekenesfeld,   tor  default 

3 

0 

2 

0 

1 

0 

7- 

Wife  of  Angot,  for  custody  of  his 

c  An   anrl  lanH 

T  O 
1  J 

4 

5 

*3 

4 

BEFORE  HUGH  DE  MOREWICH  AND  HIS 

FELLOWS,   1 186. 

9- 

Will.  s.  of  Geoff,  for  disseisin  ... 

3 

0 

3 

0 

IO. 

4 

8 

4 

S 

ii. 

Gundwin     de     Escota     [as  in 

35/viiB/n]   

3 

4 

3 

4 

12. 

Walt.  s.  of  Nich.,  for  false  claim 

5 

8 

5 

s 

13. 

6 

8 

6 

14. 

1 

2 

1 

2 

Fulk     de     Huggenden     [as  in 

35/VHB/15]   

3 

2 

0 

10 

0 

2 

12 

0 

it>. 

Hamo  s.  of  Hamo  s.  of  Meinfelin 

[as  «/viiB/i6]   

36 

1 1 

8 

8  it 
j 

4. 

27 

18 

4 

BEFORE       GEOFF KEY       FITZ       PETER  : 

FOREST  PLEAS,    1 1 87. 

1. 

Sh.,  for  small  essarts  in  Beds.  ... 

7 

4 

7 

4 

2. 

Gilo  de  Pinkeigny,  for  waste   

10 

0 

10 

4* 

±  x  ci.ii  l  *j    uc    x  <\  v_i^-  u\-  1  lex.    iui     vvaoic  ... 

1 0 

10 

7- 

bh.  L^s  35/V11L./7J   

T4 

0 

M 

BEFORE    RALF    ARCHDEACON    OF  COL- 

CHESTER  AND    HIS   FELLOWS,  Il88. 

i. 

Frankpledge  of  Robt.  Colrun,  for 

4 

9 

2 

O 

2 

q 

2. 

Sh.,  from  Mannesheved  Hund.,  for 

2 

6 

2 

6 

Sh.,  from  Half  Hund. of  Bukelawa, 

for  murder   

5 

1 

5 

1 

5. 

Hugh  de  la  Felda,  because  he  did 

3 

9 

2 

9 

1 

6. 

Thos.  de  Wrocheshulla,    for  di3- 

2 

6 

2 

6 

7- 

Rich.  de  Benehala,  for  disseisin  ... 

S 

2 

5 

i 

■m 


ROLL   37  :   vii  E,  vii  F 


57 


Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 


BEFORE   THE   SAME  IN  BUCKS. .  Il88. 


2.  Hugh  de  Croston,  because  he  did 

not  sue    58  58 

7.  Rich,  de  Padeberia,  for  pledge  of 

Peter    14  14 

8.  John  de  Fraxineto,  for  Ralf  and 

Roheise    8  8 

10.  Frankpledge  of  Ailwald  of  Senlea, 

for  estreated  pledge    a  10  10  1  io 

12.  Hugh     s.    of    Waleran    [as  in 

35/viiE/i2]    168  168 

13.  Elias  de  Wavenden,  for  false  claim         48  48 

14.  Will.  Decanus,  because  he  had  not 
whom  he  pledged,  but  he  is  to  be 

summoned  in  co.  Oxon   13   4  '3  4 

15.  Rich.   s.  of  Aldeua,   for  declara- 
tion agst.  Rich,  de  Querendon  by 

pledge  of  Henr.  de  Stocton'    6    8  6  8 

v,i  p  BEFORE   GEOFF.   FITZ  PETER  AND  HIS 

FELLOWS,  BEDS.,  1189. 

1.  Sh.,   from  Half   Hund.   of  Stan- 

brige,  for  concealment    4    1  0    0  0 

a.  to  Count  of  Mortain,  fdn.  by 
Royal  Writ    4  /• 

2.  Sh.,  from  Rog.  s.  of  Will.,  for 

leave  to  agree    40  4  0* 

4.  Sh.,  from  Hugh  persona  of  San- 

deia  for  disseisin    18  18* 

.5.  Sh.,  from  Binkelawa  Hund.,  for 

false  presentment    26  26 

6.  Robt.  s.  of  Ailric  of  Rauenesden,  1 

for  false  claim    2    2  1    3  11 

8.  Rich.  s.  of  Aldiua,  for  false  claim  6    8  6  8 

9.  Ralf.   s.  of  ^Edric,  for  estreated 

pledge    6   8  6  8 

10.  Laur.    de    Bikeleswada,    for  the 

same   .   6    8  6  8 

12.  Henr.  s.  of  Edward,  for  the  same         6    8  6  8 

13.  Hugh  s.  of  ^Edward,  for  the  same  58  20  38 
14-  Robt.  piscator,  for  false  claim  ...          6    8  6  8 

15.  Tithing  of  Gilbt.  de  Hoccliua,  for 

escape  of  WTalt   6    8  6  8 

16.  Ralf  de  Stapelford,  for  escape  of 

Geoff   5   6  56 

17.  Hugh  s.  of  Pet.  de  Kemeston,  for 

wrongful  disseisin    6    8  6  8 


*  By  2  tallies,  5s.  8d. 


58 


ROLL   3?  :   vti  G  to  vh  J 


Due.  Paid.  Balance 

li.    s.  &.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  4 

TliG  PLEAS  BEFORE  THE  SAME  IN  BUCXi., 

1189. 

1.  John  s.  of  Will,  [as  35/viiG/i]  ...16  16 

2.  Sh.,  from  Rich,  de  Gafcerst,  icr  the 

same   <.,   8  8* 

3.  Ralf    de    Mureslea,    for    a  dyke 

wrongfully  raised    63                  2              6  i 

5.  Sh.,  from  Sim.  s.  of  Hamo,  for 

estreated  pledge   2    4              2  4* 

6.  Sh.,    from    Mureslea.    Hand.,  for 

murder    10  10 

9.  Walt,  de  Bidun,  for  false  claim  ...200  a   o  o 

xo.  Ralf  forestarius    [as    35/viiG/io]  6    8                                 6  8 

11.  Mich.  s.  of  Azo,  for  false  claim  ...  6    8              6  8 

12.  Ralf  molendinarius,  for  default  ...  6    8                  4  64 

13.  John  mercator,  for  default    62                                 6  3 

14.  Robt.  fullo,  for  estreated  pledge  ...  62                  6  58 

15.  JordaD  mercator,  for  the  same  ...  3    4              3  4 

16.  Robt.  mercator  of  Oluea,  for  the 

same   6   8  6  8 

17.  Barth.    Decanus   [as  35/VHG/17]     100  68  13  < 

OFFERINGS  TO  THE  COURT. 

19.  Hugh  de  Nuers,  for  fine  of  the 
land  of  his  bro.,  of  the  Honor  of 

Earl  Giffard    10   o  10  0 

22.  Urban    de    Herlingedon'    [as  in 

35/V11G/22]   100  100 

VU  H  BEFOBE  GEOFF.  FITZ  PETES  :  FOREST 

PLEAS,  BEDS.,  I190. 

3.  Robt.  de  Russenden  [as  36/viiH/3; 
set  by  scribe  in  wrong  place,  cor- 
rectly replaced  here]    6    8  6  * 

4.  Sh.,  for  small  items  of  the  Forest 

below  \  mk   1  13    7  0    0  0 

a.  to  Brethren  of  the  Hospital  14.  7 

b.  to  Count  of  Moretaine  ...  ig  o 

fdn.  by  liberty  of  Royal  char- 
ter   

''3  7 

▼li  J  BEFORE  THE   SAME  IN  BUCKS.,  1190. 

4.  Sh.,  [as  3<>/viiJ/4!    x    5   9  V  5  « 

*  By  2  tallies,  3s.  od. 


ROLL   37  :   vii  K,  vii  L  59 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.   3.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 

tHK  NEW    PLEAS    AND    NEW  AGREEMENTS 

BEFORE  THE  ABBOT  OF  PETER- 
BOROUGH, H.  [ARCHDEACON  OF 
EVREUX?],  AND  GEOFF.  FITZ  PETER 
IN  BEDS. 

in.  Will.  s.  of  Halenath,  for  not  pur- 
suing his  appeal   6    8  6  8 

2n.  Sh.,  from  Mannesheued  Hund., 

for  murder    13   4  90  6 

a.  to  monks  of  Woburn    2  o 

b.  to  Count  of  Moretaine  ...    /  o 

c.  to  Brethren  of  the  Hospi- 
tal   4 

d.  to  monks  of  Wardon    6 

pdn.    by    liberty    of  Royal 
charter    3  10 

3n.  Will.  Wischard,  for  having  an  in- 
quisition by  the  neighbourhood 
whether  he  was  appealed  by  malice 
or  not,  whereof  Sh.  has  the  plead- 
ings   6  13   4         <54  5   8  0 

4n.  Sh.,   from   Wicstanestan  Hund., 

for  murder    13   4  6  8 

a.  to  monks  of  Wardon    5  2 

b.  to  nuns  of  Sim-plingham 
[Sempringham]    /  o 

c.  to  brethren  of  the  Hospital  6 

pdn.    by    liberty    of  Royal 
charter    6  8 

$n.  Rog.  s.  of    Ralf,    for  estreated 

pledge    6   8  20  48 

6n.  Geoff,  s.  of  Hugh,  for  the  same         6    8  20  48 

7n.  Sh.,  from  Richard  de  Punchar- 
dun,  for  withdrawal   


6 

8 

2 

0 

4 

6 

8 

2 

0 

4 

6 

8 

6 

8* 

6 

8 

6 

8* 

6 

8 

6 

6 

8 

6 

8n.  Sh.,  from  Rich.  s.  of  Nigel,  for 
leave  to  agree   

on.  Rog.  de  Pirie,  for  not  pursuing 
his  appeal   

ion.  John  de  Curci,  for  the  same  ... 

fit  L  PLEAS  BEFORE  THE  SAME  IN  BUCKS. 

in.  Sh.,  from  Dusteberga  Hund.,  for 

murder    100  10  0 

a.  to  Bp.  of  Winchester    6  4 

b.  to  Count  of  Moretaine  ...    j  8 

pdn.  by  Royal  writ    10  o 


n.  New  entry. 


By  2  tallies,  135.  4d. 


60  ROLL  3?  i    vii  L  to  viii  B 

Due.  Paid.  Balance 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d 

an.  Sh.,  from  F.siendon  Hund.,  for 

the  same    13   4  4  1 

a.  to  Brethren  of  the  Hospital 

4  3 

b.  to  monks  of  Tame  ,   2  o 

c.  to  Count  of  Moreteine  ...    3  o 

fdn.  by  liberty  of  Rfyc-l  charter 

9  3 

311.  Nicol.  de  Bereuill',  for  with- 
drawal  6    8  48  20 

411.  Sh.,  from  AiJesbiri    Hund.,  for 

murder    13   4  8  0 

a.  to  Brethren  of  the  Hospi- 
tal   /  o 

b.  to    Will,    de    sie.  .Mere 
Eglise    8 

c.  to  Count  of  Mart  taint  ...    3  8 

fdn.  by  liberty  of  Royal  charter 

5  4 

511.  Robt.  prepositus,  for  disseisin  ...  6    8  40  2  S 

6n.  Adam  de  Campania,  for  the  same         6    8  6  6  a 

•jn.  Sh.,  from  Vitalis  de  Huggeleia, 

for  amercement    6    8  6  8* 

8n.  Sh.,  from  Phil,  de  Sanleia,  for 

withdrawal    6    8  6  8* 

on.  Sh.,  from  Will.  s.  of  Meinfelin, 

for  disseisin    6    8  6  8* 

ion.  Sh.,  from  -  -  -  -  de  sco.  Medardo, 

for  the  same    6    8  6  8* 

un.  Sh.,  from  Frankpledge  of  Will. 

s.  of  Leuenod'    6  8  6  8* 

ian.  Sh..  from  Villa te  of  Clifton    6  8  6  8* 

1311.  [Villate]  of  Ailesberi,  for  murder  13  4  13  4 

14m  Gilbt.,  man  of  Alan  le  Bret',  for 

withdrawal    6    8  6  8 

150.  Will,  de  Verdun,  for  disseisin  ...  6    8  6  8 

viii  A  SCUTAGE  OF  WALES  IN  BEDS. ,  Iigo. 

1.  Robt.  de  Albeneio,  for  his  knights    12  10    o  12  10  P 

2.  Sim.  de  Bello  campo    14  17  10  14  17  10 

3.  Sim.  de  Wahella,  for  his  knights     6100         100  5  10  0 

viii  B  THE  SAME  SCUTAGE  IN  BUCKS.,  IIQO. 

1.  Walt,   de  Windr'   and   Will,  de 

Windr'    918  9    »  * 

2.  Will.  Mald[uit],  chamberlain    17    6  »7  6 

«.  Herb,  de  Bolebec    10   o  JO  0 


n.  New  entry. 


*  By  6  tallies,  aii. 


I 


ROLL   37  :    viii  B,   ix  A  61 

Due.  Paid,  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    3.  d. 

7.  Hugh  de  Chahaignis,  for  §  kt.  ...  6    8  6  8 

8.  Hamo  s.  of  Hamo  s.  of  Meinfelin     400  400 

9.  Hen.  de  Pinkeigni    6  15    o         0    0  0 

a.  Quit  by  the  Chancellor"1  s  writ 

6  1$  o 

IX  A  NEW  PROMISES,  Iigo. 

2.  Will,  de  Boclanda  [as  in  36/ixA/i 

in  two  instalments]    9  13    4         9  13  4 

4.  Will.  Marescair,  to  have  a  moiety 
of  the  lands  of  Earl  Giffard  [con- 
tinued from  36/ixA/22]    171    7    4  171    7  4 

5.  Eust.  de  Greienuill'  for  fine  of  his 
land  whereof  the    Kg.  disseised 

him    6    8  6  8 

7.  Ralf   Gibewin,   to  have  seisin  of 

4I1 .  of  land  in  Weuedon'    300  300 

8.  Will,  de  Stodham  [as  in  36/ixA/8]    10   o    o  10   o  o 

9.  Jord.  Lenueise  [as  in  36/ixA/9]  ...    10   o   o         200  800 

10.  Gilb.    de    Maperteshal'     [as  in 

36/ixA/io]    13   6   8  13   6  8 

14.  Robt.  s.  of  Ralf  s.  of  Bernard  [as 

in  36/ixA/i4]    16  13    4  16  13  4 

15.  Will,  de  ste.  Mere  Eglise,  to  have 
the  land  of  Robt.  Lescot  in  Ailes- 
beria  for  an  annual  rent  of  5s., 

which  used  to  pay  yearly  23s.  5d.     6  13    4  6  13  4 

The  same  Will.,  for  the  farm  of 
the  same  land,  for  this  year  5s., 

and  for  last  year  5s   10    o  50  50 

16.  The  Barons  of  the  county  of  Beds., 
for  disafforesting  that  part  of  the 
Shire    which     King     Henry  I. 

afforested    146    40        68   o   o        78    4  o 

17.  The  Burgesses  of  Bedeford,  to  have 
their  burgh  at  fee  farm  and  their 

liberties  according  to  their  charter    53    6    8        36  10    6  3    9  6 
a.  to  Sim.  de  Bello  cam-po,  for  forti. 
fying  the  A'g/s  castle  of  Bedeford 
by  Royal  Writ  through  the  Chan- 
cellor                                   13    6  8 

at.  Rich,  de  Windr',  for  enrolment  on 
the    Great     Roll     [etc.,     as  in 

36/ixA/2i]    6    8  34  3  4 

23n.  Walt.,  de  Windr',  to  have  Right 
concerning  his  inheritance,  of 
which  Will,   de  Windr'  deforces 

him    66  13    4  66  13  4 


n.  New  entry. 


62 


ROLL   37  :   ix  B  to  x  B 


ix  B  OFFERINGS  TO  THE  COURT  THROUGH 

THE  CHANCELLOR. 


Dne.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 


in.  Rog.  seruiens  de  Querendon,  ar- 

rear  of  his  fine    12    o   6         168         10  13  10 

2n.  Rich  de  Pertehale,  for  the  same    2000         6  13   4        13  68 

3n.  -  -  -  de  Bello  campo,  to  have  his 
plea  agst.  Hugh  de  Wellebuef  in 

the  Kg.'s  Court    100  100 

4n.  [Canons?]  of  Dunestapl',  to  have 

their  Court  from  Matilda  Giffard     500  500 

5n.  Ralf  Gibewin,  for  writ  of  right  of 
a  fee  of  1  kt.  in  Liscumba  and 

Sulebi    2   o   o  200 

6n.  Robt.  s.  of  Robt.  de  Albeneio,  for 

his  Relief    100   o   o         368        96  13  4 

x  JUDAICA. 

X  A  DEBTS   OF  AARON  THE  JEW   OF  LIN- 

COLN. 

in.  Will,  de  TureuilP,  for  his  lands 

of  Linton,  Fulebroc,  and  Wilia  ...    So   o   o  80   o  o 

2n.  The  same,  for  his  land  of  Halme- 

don'    7  10   o  7  10  o 

3n.  Hen.  de  Clinton,  by  a  charter  ...     3  13   4  3  *3  4 

4n.  Earl  Simon,  on  Pornew'  and 
Bludeie,  by  pledge  of  Will.  Mald- 
[uit]    and    Ralf    monachus  and 

Simon  the  Earl's  bro   50   o   o  50   o  o 

5n.  Nich.  de  Traili,  by  a  charter  ...700  700 

6n.  Will.  Mald[uit],  Chamberlain,  by 

a  charter    10  13   4  10  13  4 

X  B  OFFERINGS     THROUGH     THE  CHAN- 

CELLOR. 

in.  [Aaron  bro.  of  Leon]  de  Dune- 
stapl' to  have  Right  for  30s.  agst. 
Hugh  s.  of  Yvo,  and  for  20s.  agst. 
{Robt.}  Rich.  s.  of  Esui,  and  for 

2  m.  agst.  Robt.  Blundus    100  1    o  o 

2n.  [Mosse  s.  of  Mosse]  for  a  debt  of 

5  m.  agst.  Geoff,  de  Lega    100  1    o  o 

3n.  Josce  s.  of  Mosse,  for  20s.  agst. 

Gilb.  Passelewe    40  4  0 


n.  New  eDtry. 


ROLL  36  :   i,   n  63 

ROLL  3S:   4  RIG.  I:  1192. 

MEMBRANE  3. 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  u.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 

i  FARM    OF   THE  SHIRES. 

William  Rufius  for  the  Ola  Farm    12    7    2  no.  42    7    2  no. 

The  same  for  the  New  Farm    72  14    1  bL 

67  12  10  no. 

ii  ALLOWANCES. 

ji  A    /.  Knighthood  of  the  Temple  168 

2.  Brethren  of  the  Hospital  of  Wit- 
sand   ,   /  ic  5 

ii  C    /.  [See  xiiAfja\ 

3.  John  Piet  de  fer    1  10  5 

ii  D    /.  Monks  of  Woburn  in  mill  of  Leoch- 
ton'    1  12  o 

2.  [See  xiiAfib]. 

3.  Brethren  of  the  Hospital  of  Witsant 
in  Luiton'    200 

5.  Nuns  of  Fontevrault,  in  Leochton' 

48    8    o  no. 

6.  The  same,  in  Radenechc 

400  no. 

7.  The  same,  in  Brichull  1  7.2    o  no. 

8.  Wischard  Leidet  in  Ilyda  de 
Hulmo    a  10    o  no. 

g.  Roger  Foil  the  Otterer  in  Ailes- 
beria  in  the  land  which  was  of 
JErnis  reeve    16  o 

10.  Engelram  de  Fenles  in  Wendoura 
and  in  EUon    60    o    o  no. 

11.  Hugh  de  Gurnay  in  Hocton'  and 
appurtenances    40    o    o  bl. 

12.  Baldwin  de  Betto-n* ,  in  Luiton 

80    o    o  bl. 

13.  Vill  of  Bedeford\  accounted  below 

40    o    o  bl. 

I4n.  In  BruhelV ,  for  which  Will.  s.  of 
Ric.  must  answer    as    the  Sheriff 

says  [xiiA  below]           20    o    o  bl. 

ii  E    3.  Repair  of  the  Gaol  of  Bedeford' 

3  0 

>i  F     311.  Cost   of   conveying   thieves  and 
outlaws  from  Ailesberia  to  Bede- 

ford*    2  J 

4n.  Conveyance  and  justice  and  hold- 
judgment  on  q  thieves    5  4 

And  he  has  surplus  3s.  4d.  bl. 

And  he  owes  40    7    2  no. 


n.  New  entrv 


ROLL  38  :    iii  to  vi 


FARM  OF  THE  BURGH. 

Burgesses  of  Bedford   

a.  fixed  livery  to  Thomas  ucnator, 
2li.  $s.  y\d.  [blanched  as]  2  34 

INCREMENT  AND  BALANCE. 

i.  and  2.  Oger  s.  of  Oger  [as 
37/iv/i,  2]   

3  and  6  and  7.  Sh.  for  9^  years  past 

4.  Will.  s.  of  Rich,  [as  36/1V/4]   

5.  Osbert  s.  of  Rich,  [as  36/^/5]  ... 

8n.  Sh.,  for  increment  of  Bucks,  [this 
year]  

PURPRESTURES  AND  ESCHEATS. 

1.  Half  Hund.  of  Stanbrige   

2.  Farm  of  Hanewich   

3.  Land  of  Lambricht   

4.  Meadow  of  Akelay,  for  which  Will, 
s.  of  Ric.  must  answer  as  bailiff 
of  BruhelT  [39/V/4]   

6.  Farm  of  a  hide  which  was  of  Hugh 
Hatecrist   

11.  Will.  s.  of  Rich.,  for  increment  of 
Bruhella,  land  of  Will,  de  Rochella 
of  that  vili   

12.  Will,  de  Ste.  Mere  Eglise.  for  land 
which  was  of  Robt.  Lescot  in  Ailes- 
beria,  for  this  year   

13.  Sh.,  farm  of  land  of  Will.  Fic- 
tauensis  in  Ailesberia   

21.  Sh.,  for  old  farm  of  Suaneburn 
[1191]  but  he  says  that  it  should 
be  demanded  from  ]ohn  Maresc' 
who  then  had  custody  of  escheats 

22.  Sh.,  for  farm  of  Suaneburn  [this 
year]  

ARREARS. 

2.  Will.  s.  of  Nigel,  for  [as  35/vi/2] 

4.  Gilbt.  Passelewe,  for  Right  for  a 
fee  of  2  kts.  agst.  Ralf  and  Thos. 
de  Wrocheshal,  but  he  has  it  not 
[nSo]   

Villate  of   Aile->eria   for  murder 

["83]   

6.  Villate  of  Luiton  for  murder  [11S5] 

q.  Jordan  clericus  de  Hameledea  for 
default  [1191]   


Due.  Paid.  Balance 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d 

40   o   o  bl.    37  16   8  bl. 


10  hawks 
36  hawk-s 
29  hawk« 
9  hawk, 

10    o    o        10    0    0  4  hawks 

200         2   0  0* 
40  4  0* 

40  4  0* 

84  84 
1    5   0         15  0* 

200  200 

50  5  0 

10  10 

*  3  5  '35 
420  420 

200  200 

368  3  ^  8 

100  10® 
168  1    6  S 

33   6   8  33   6  8 


*  "y  4  tallies,  3li.  13s. 


ROLL  38  :    vii  A   to  vii  D  65 


vii  C 


viiD 


Due 

Paid. 

Balance. 

li.  s. 

d. 

li.  s. 

d. 

li. 

s. 

d. 

PLEAS     BEFORE     JUSTICES     IN  EYRE. 

BEFORE  WILL.   DE  VER  AND  HIS  FEL- 

LOWS, 1 185. 

3. 

Regin.   s.   of   /Ernold,   for  with- 

6 

8 

4 

8 

2 

c 

4. 

Steph.  s.  of  Herbt.  for  disseisin  ... 

4 

0 

4 

0 

7- 

Ralf  pistor,  for  pledge  of  Alueua 

5 

4 

5 

4 

BEFORE      GEOFFREY      FITZ      PETER  : 

FOREST  PLEAS,  1185. 

2. 

Godwin  brunus,  for  the  escape  of 

William   

1 

8 

1 

8 

4- 

John  de  Bekenesfeld,  for  default  ... 

1 

0 

1 

0 

7. 

Wife  of  Angot  for  custody  of  his 

S  T3 

4 

5 

13 

4 

BEFORE    HUGH    DE    MOREVVICH  AND 

9- 

Will.  s.  of  Geoff.,  for  disseisin  ... 

3 

0 

3 

0 

10. 

4 

8 

4 

8 

11. 

Gundwin      de     Estcota  [as 

35/viiB/n]   

3 

4 

3 

4 

12. 

Walt.  s.  of  Nich.,  for  false  claim 

S 

8 

5 

c 

0 

l3- 

0 

Q 

O 

5 

s 

*5« 

TV  nil'       Apk       Wn  orcrpnHpn  Tac 
.r  uiK      uc      n.  ug y ciiucii  L"^ 

7c/viiB/ic1   

2  12 

O 

10 

0 

2 

2 

0 

16. 

Hamo.  s.  of  Hamo  s.  of  Meinfelin 

[as  35/VHB/16]   

27  18 

4 

4  0 

0 

18 

4 

BEFORE      GEOFFREY      FITZ       PETER  : 

FOREST  PLEAS,  1187. 

1. 

Sh.,  for  small  essarts  in  Beds.  ... 

7 

4 

7 

4 

2. 

10 

0 

10 

O 

4- 

Hamo  de  Padeberia,  for  waste  ... 

10 

0 

10 

0 

7. 

Sh.  [as  WviiC/7]   

L           jj/               /  /  J 

14 

0 

14 

0 

BEFORE    RALF    ARCHDEACON    OF  COL- 

CHESTER   AND    HIS    FELLOWS,  BEDS. 

1 188. 

1. 

Frankpledge  of  Robt.  Colrun  for 

2 

9 

2 

9 

2. 

Sh.,  for  Mannesheued  Ilund.,  for 

murder,  accounted  below[viiG/i8] 

3 

Sh.,  for  Bukelawe  Half  Hund.  for 

5 

1 

5 

1 

S- 

Hugh  de  la  Felda,  for  failure  to 

1 

0 

1 

0 

6. 

Thos.   de   Wrocheshulla,   for  dis- 

2 

6 

2 

6 

7- 

Rich.    de   Benehala,   for  disseisin 

I 

2 

5 

2 

66  ROLL  38  :    vii  E  to  vii  G 


Due.  Paid.  Balance. 

!i.    s.  d.        !i.    s.  d.      li.    3.  d 

Vil  E  BEFORE  THE  SAME  IS  BUCKS.,  i:88. 

2.  Hugh  de  Croston,  because  he  did 

not  sue    5    3  5  g 

7.  Rich,  de  Padeberia,  for  pledge  of 

Peter   „    14  1  4 

8.  John  de  Fraxineto,  for  Ralf  pnd 

Roheise   8  8 

10.  Frankpledge  of  Ailward  de  Senlea, 

for  estreated  pledge   2  to  1  10 

12.  Hugh  s.  of  Waleran,  for  declara- 
tion of  a  hide  of  land  agist.  Robt. 
de  Salceio,  ili.  6s.  8d.  But  he 
should  be  summoned  in  Northants. 

13.  Elias  de  Waueudeu,  for  faLe  claim         48  4  8 

14.  Will.  Decanus,  for  estreated 
pledge,  13s.  4d.  But  he  should 
be  summoned  in  Oxon  

15.  Rich.  s.  of  Aldeua  [as  37/viiE/i5]         6    8  6  8 

yii  F  BEFORE  GEOFF.  FITZ  PETER  AKD  HIS 

FELLOWS,   BEDS.,    II 89. 

5.  Sh.,  for  Binkelawa  Hund,  for  false 

presentment    26  26 

6.  Robt.  s.  of  Ailric  de  Rauenesden, 

for  false  claim      11  11 

8.  Rich.  s.  of  Aldeua,  for  the  same         6    8  6  8 

9.  Ralf  s.  of  ^Edric,    for  estreated 

pledge    6   8  38  30 

12.  Hen.  s.  of  Edward,  for  the  same         6   8  6  8 

13.  Sh.,  because  he  had  not  whom  he 
pledged    on    the    amercement  of 

Hugh  s.  of  Ailward  [sic]    38  3  8* 

14.  Ralf  piscator,  tor  false  claim    6    8  6  8 

15.  Tithing  of  Gilbt.  s.  [sic]  of  Hocc- 

liua,  for  escape  of  Walter    6    8  6  8 

16.  Ralf  de  Stapelford  for  escape  [of 

Geoffrey]    5   6  5  6 

17.  Hen.  [sic]  s.  of  Pet.  de  Kemeston, 

for  disseisin   6    8  6  8 

VliG  BEFORE  THE  SAME  IN  BUCKS.,  1189. 

i.  Sh.,    for    John    s.    of   Will,  [as 

35/viiG/i]    16  16* 

3.  Ralf    de    Mureslea,    for    a  dyke 

wrongiully  raised    6    i  6  » 

6.  Sh.,  for  Mureslea  Hund.  for  mur- 
der   i    o  »  ° 

g.  Walt,  de  Bidun  for  false  [claim]  200  20^ 

10.  Ralf  forest',  [as  35/viiG/io]    6    8  6  8 

12.  Ralf  molendinarius,  for  default  ...  64  64 


*  By  2  tallies,  5s.  2d. 


ROLL  38  :   vli  G  to  vii  L 


67 


Due.  Paid.  Balance. 


vii  J 


li. 

s. 

d. 

li. 

8. 

d. 

li.  s. 

d. 

6 

2 

6 

2 

14.  Robt.  Fullo,  for  estreated  pledge  ... 

c 

.J 

8 

5 

8 

16.  Robt.  mercator  de  Olnea,  for  the 

6 

8 

6 

8 

17.  Barth.  Dec[anusJ  [as  35/V11IT/17J 

» 3 

4 

6 

8 

6 

8 

18.  Sh.,  for  Mannesheued  Hund.  for 

2 

O 

A 
0 

A. 

A 

0 

a.  to  Ct.  of  Moriam  by  Kg.'s  7vrit 

2  6 

OFFERINGS    TO    THE  COURT. 

19.  Hugh  de  Nuers,  for  fine  of  his 

UlU.   b    Id  11  LI    OI    lllC    XXUllUUX    <J1  JLL-d.Il 

Giffard  

10 

O 

10 

0 

22.  Urban    de    xierlingedon    [as  in 

35/viiG/22]   1 

0 

O 

1  0 

0 

PLEAS  OF  THE  FOREST  BEFORE  GEOFF. 

FITZ  PETER  :  BEDS.,  1190. 

3.  Robt.  de  Russendon  because  he  had 

not     the     warrantor    whom  he 

8 

u 

« 
0 

BEFORE  THE  SAME  IN  BUCKS.,  IIQO. 

4.  Sh.,  for  small  matters  of  the  Forest 

5 

9 

I  5 

9 

BEFORE  THE  ABBOT  OF  PETERBOROUGH 

AND  HIS  FELLOWS,  BEDS.,  Iigi. 

1.  Will.  s.  of  Halenad,  for  not  pur- 

6 

8 

6 

0 

2.  Sh.,  for  Mannesheued  Hund.  for 

6 

0 

0 

0 

a.  to  Canons  of  Dunstafl\  -pdn.  by 

3.  Will.  Wischard  [as  in  37/viiK/3]  5 

8 

0 

13 

4 

4  14 

8 

5.  Sh.,   from   Rog.   s.    of    Ralf  for 

4 

c 

0 

ft* 
0 

6                from    HpTiff      c     r\f    T-TncH    f  rvr 

4 

8 

4 

8* 

9.  Rog.  de  Pyrie,  for  not  pursuing 

8 

6 

8 

2 

0 

4 

10.  John  de  Curci  for  the  same   

6 

8 

6 

8 

BEFORE  THE  SAME  IN  BUCKS.,  1191. 

3.  Nich.  de  Bereuille,  for  withdrawal 

2 

0 

2 

0 

5.  Robt.  prepositus,  for  disseisin  ... 

2 

8 

1 

0 

1 

8 

6.  Adam  de  Campania,  for  disseisin 

6 

2 

6 

2 

*  By  2  tallies, 

9s. 

4d. 

68 


ROLL  38  :    viii  A.    viii  B 


Due. 


Paid, 
li.    s.  d. 


13.  Villate  of  Ailesberia,    for   murder  13  4 

14.  Gilbt.  man  of  Alan  le  Bret',  for 
withdrawal    6  8 

15.  Will,  de  Verdun,  for  disseisin  ...  6  8 

viii  A  SCUTAGE  OF  WALKS  IN  BEDS.,    I IQO. 

1.  Robt.  de  Albeneio,  for  his  knights    12  10  o 

2.  Simon  de  Bello  campo    14  17  10 

[the  following  are  all  new  entries] 

a.  Guy  de  sancto  ]Val[er]- 


b.  Miles  de  Bello  campo  ... 

c.  Gilbt.  Passelewc   

d.  Rog.  de  Sale  ford   

e .  Will  de  Scar  -  -  

/.  -  -  -  -  oin   

g.  Hen.  Ruff  us  and  Walt. 
Monachus   

h.  Osbt.  de  Broy   

i.  Robt.  s.  of  Bernard  ... 
j.  Bern,  de  limitnstre   


fdn.  by  Kg.'s  writ  to  Kts. 
signed  with  the  Cross  who 
have  gone  to  Jerusalem  ...  4  ij  6 

Simon  de  Wahella,  for  his  kts.  5  10 

[the  following  are  all  new  entries] 

a.  Simon  himself  signed 
with  the  cross,  for  his  de- 
mesne   1  10  o 

b.  Walt.    M alesoures    /    o  o 

c.  Hen.  Male[soures~\  ...  [1    o  o] 

d.  -  -  -  de  la  Lega   10  o 

e.  Pet.  s.  of  Sim   5  o 

f.  Sim.  de  Pate  shell'  who 

was  in  the  army  of  Wales      10  c 
fdn.    by   Kg.ys   writ  [for 

active  service]    4150 


0 

0 

10 

0 

10 

0 

10 

0 

[5 

0] 

5 

0 

5 

0 

6 

10 

0 

2 

0 

Balan  r 
li.    s.  d 

x3  * 

6  B 
6  8 


9  9  * 
10    o  4 


000  T5  0 


Viii  B  THE   SAME  SCUTA GE   IN  BUCKS. ,    I  IQO. 

1.  WTalt.  de  Windr'    and    Will,  de 
Windr',  scutage    q  1 

a.  Walt,  de  Windr\  fdn.  by  Chan- 
cellor's writ    4  to  10 

the  balance  remains  agst.  Will,  de 
Windr' 

2.  Will.      Mald[uit]  chamberlain, 
scutage    17 

5.  Herbt.  de  Bolcbec,  scutage    10 

7.  Hugh  de  Chahaignis   

8.  Hamo  s.  of  Ilamo  s.  of  Meinfelin  4  o 
q.  Hen.  de  Pinkeigni    6  15 


000  4  10  10 


10  0 


[176] 


4    o  0 

6  is  p 


ROLL  38  :    Ix  A 


69 


Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        !i.    s.  d.      H.    s.  d. 


iX  A  PROMISES,   1 190. 

4.  [See  ixA/22  below  J 


5.  Eustace  de  Graienuill',  for  fine  of 
land   whereof   the   Kg.  disseised 

him   6   8  [6  8] 

7.  Ralf  Gibewin,  for  seicio  of  4H.  of 

land  in  Weuedon    300  300 

8.  Will,  de  Stodham  [as  in  36/ixA/8]    10   o   o  [10   o  o] 

9.  Jordan  Lenueise  [as  in  35/ixA/g]     800         368  4  13  4 

10.  Gilbt.    de    Maperteshal'    [as  in 

36/ixA/io]   13    6    8  13    6  8 

MEMBRANE  3  DORSO. 

14.  Robt.  s.  of  Ralf  s.  of  Bernard  [as 

in  36/ixA/i4]    16  13    4  16  13  4 

15.  Will,  de  Ste.  Mere  Eglise  [as  in 

37/ixA/is]    6  13   4         368  368 

16.  The  Barons  of  the  county  of 
Bedef'sV,  for  disforestation  of 
that  part  of  the  county  which  Kg. 

Henry  I  afforested    78   4    o         0    0  0 

a.  to  Ero.  Will,  de  Paris, 
to  he  given  to  two  [  ?  hos- 
pitallers'] who  went  to  the 

King    /?    6  8 

b.  to  Walt,  de  Ely,  to  be 
given   to   a    kt.    for  his 

losses    400 

c.  to  Phil,  de  Gisnes  for 

use  of  his  fellows    400 

d.  to   Robt.    de    Gruigni  100 

e.  to  200  serjeants  who 
came    to    Norhan?  for 

their  Gifts    S3    0  8 

f.  in  liveries  to  kts.  and 
serjeants,  by  the  hand 
and  view  of  Will.  s.  of 

Rich   22  1  j  q 

by  the  Chancellor'' s  writ  78  11  1 

surplus,  which  should  be 
computed  to  Sim.  de 
Pate  sheila  in  the  balance 
of  farm  and  furprestures 
of  A ' orthan's.,  because  he 
received  the  above  sums 
from  them  and  brought 
them  into  account  [de- 
duct]   7  / 

7S   4  o 


70  ROLL  38  s       A  to  xC 

Due.  Paid.  Balaam 

ii.    s.  d.        K.    s.  d.      li.    3.  4 

21.  Rich,  de  Windr  for  enrolment  on 
the     Great     Roll     fete,     as  in 

36/ixA/2i3    3   4  3  4 

22.  Will.  Maresc',  to  have  a  moiety  of 

the  land  of  Earl  Giffard    171    74  171    7  < 

23.  Walt,  de  Windr'  to  have  Right  of 
his  inheritance  whereof  Will,  de 

Windr'  deforces  him   66  13   4        17  10   o         49   3  4 

ii  B  OFFERINGS  TO  THE  COURT  THROUGH 

THE  CHANCELLOR,  1IQI. 

1.  Rog.  Seruiens  de  Qnerendon,  for 

arrear  of  his  fine    10  13  10         1    6   8         9  7* 

2.  Ric.  de  Pertehala,  for  the  same 

fine    13   68         400  968 

5.  Ralf  Gibewin  [as  in  37/1XB/5]  ...200  20  0 

6.  Robt.  s.  of  Robt.  de  Albcneio,  for 

his  Relief    96  13   4         4  10   o        92   3  4 

x  JUDAICA. 

XA  DEBTS   OF  AARON  THE  JEW   OF  LIN- 

COLN, H9I. 

1.  Will,  de  Tureuille  [as  In  37/xA/i]    80   o   o  80   o  o 

2.  Will,  de  Tureuille,  for  his  land  of 

Halmedon    7100         168  634 

3.  Hen.  de  CHnton,  by  charter    3  13    4  3  13  4 

4.  Earl  Simon  [as  in  37/XA/4]    50   o   o  50  o  o 

5.  Nic.  de  Traili,  by  charter    700  700 

6.  Will.    Malduit,    Chamberlain,  by 

charter   10  13   4  10  13  < 

X  B  OFFERINGS    THROUGH    THE  CHANCEL- 

LOR, 1191. 

1.  Aaron  bro.  of  Leon  de  DunestapP 

[as  in  37/xB/i]      100  100 

2.  Mosse  s.  of  Mosse  [as  in  37/XB/2]      1    o   o  x    o  o 

3.  Josce  s.  of  Mosse  [as  in  37/XB/3]  40  4  0 

4n.  Guy  de  Sto.  Walerico  on  the  debt 
to  Aaron  for  fine  which  he  made 

with  the  Chancellor    500  5   o  0 

XC  NEW      OFFERINGS      THROUGH  THE 

ARCHBP.   OF   ROUEN  AND  OTHER  JUS- 
TICES. 

in.  Urseii  de  Gipeswic  and  Isaac  de 
Bedeford'  and  Seignured  de  sancto 
iEdmundo,  for  custody  of  the  chat- 
tels, valued  at  i2oli.,  of  Ysaac  the 
Jew  of  St.  Edmund  who  was  killed 
at  Tedford,  for  the  use  of  the  slain 

man's  heir   ;   33   6   8  33  6 


n.  New  entry. 


ROLL  38:   xG  to  xiiA  71 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 

an.  Walder  of  Wicumba,  to  have  4m. 

from  Rog.  de  Hugeden                           6   8  6  8 

3n.  Hugh  de  Girunde  for  Writ  of 
Right  for  a  kt.'s  fee  in  Foxcota 

agst.  Walt,  de  la  Haia    200  200 

XI  GOODS  OF  FELONS  AND  FUGITIVES. 

in.  Sh.  for  chattels  of  Turold  Wade, 

outlawed    40  4  0 

XU  MANORS  AND  BOROUGHS  SEPARATELY 

SUMMONED. 

xii  A  Brill. 

1.  Will.  s.  of  Ric.  for  farm  of  BruhelT 

a.  Rob/,  s.  of  Fulcher  of  Oxinef 

3  o  to 

b.  Brethr.  of  Hosfital  of  Witsand, 

in  BruheW    300  no.  $ 

[account  not  made  up]. 


n.  New  entry. 


72  ROLL  39  :    i,  ii 


ROLL  39:   5  RIC.  I:  1193. 

MEMBRANE   11  DORSO. 

Due.  Paid.  Balan^ 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d 

FARM   OF  THE  SHIRES. 

Will  Ruffus,  for  the  Old  Farm 
which  remained  over  and  above 
the  allowances  by  quittance  (liber- 
tates  per  quiet')  until  the  Kg.  shall 

have  otherwise  ordered    40    7    2  no.  40    7    2  do 

The  same  for  the  New  Farm    70  18    9  bl. 


60   o   o  no. 


ii  ALLOWANCES. 

ii  A     J-  Knighthood  of  the  Temple  168 

2.  Brethren  of  the  Hospital  of  Witsant 

J   jo  5 

ii  C    J.  John  Pie  de  Fer    /  10  5 

ii  D     /•  Monks  of  WoJ>urn,  in  mill  of  Leoc- 
ton*    1  12  o  r.o. 

3.  Brethren  of  Hospital  of  Witsand, 
in  Luiton'    200 

5.  Nuns  of  Fontevroult ,  in  Leocton' 

48  8  o  no. 

6.  The  same,  in  Radeneche  400  no. 

7.  The  same,  in  Brie  hull  ...  7  120  no. 

8.  Wischard  Leidet ,  in  Hyda  de 
Hulmo    j  10  o  no. 

9.  Roger  Foil  lutrarius ,  in  Ailesberia 
in  the  land  which  was  of  ALrnis 
reeve    /6  o 

jo.  Engelram  de  Fenles,  in  Wendoura 
and  in  Eiton    60  o  o  no. 

jj.  In  manor  of  Hocton  with  appur- 
tenances, which  Hugh  de  Gurnay 
and  Phil,  nephew  of  the  A  bp.  of 
Rouen  and  Gild.  s.  of  Renfred  and 
Gild.  Basset  had  this  year  by  Royal 
writ    40  o  o  bl. 

12.  Bald,  de  Betton  in  Luiton' 

80  o  o  bl. 

jj.  In  the  vill  of  Bedeford,  account 
rendered  below  [iii]    40  o  o  bl. 

14.  In  Bruhell,  for  which  Will.  s.  of 
Rich,  has  to  answer,  as  the  sheriff 
says    20  o  o  bl. 

ii  E    4.  in  repairing  the  Gaol  of  Ailesberia 

*  4 


ROLL  39  :  ii 


bn.  to  Roger  s.  of  Renfr.  for  work  cn 
palisading  mangonels  and  other 
things  needed  about  the  Tower  of 
London,  by  Royal  writ    28  o  o 

7«.  Will,  de  Semeilli,  for  his  main- 
tenance in  the  Kg.'s  service,  by 
Royal  writ    1368 

8n.  in  cost  of  carriage  of  stones  for 
the  fetraries  and  other  engines  of 
the  Kg.  to  Windsor ,  by  Royal  writ 

17  2 

5«.  in  cost  of  conveyance  of  Herbt. 
de  Biland,  an  approver,  and  his 
fello-ws  from  Bedeford  to  London, 
and  their  payment  for  40  days  4  8 

tn.  in  cost  of  carriage  of  the  hutch  of 
Ursell,  a  Jew,  from  Bedeford  to 
London    2  7 

Surplus  [from  Roll  38]           3  4  hi: 

And  he  owes   

which  remain  above  allowances  by 
quittance,  till  the  King  shall  have 
otherwise  ordered. 

FARM  OF  THE  BURGH. 

Burgesses  of  Bedeford. 

a.  fixed  livery  to  Thos.  uenator , 
2li.  §s.  y\d.   {blanched  as]  2  3  4 

INCREMENT  AND  BALANCE. 

i,  2.  Oger  s.  of  Oger  [as  37/iv/i,  2] 

3.  6,  7,  8.  Sh.  for  increment  of  Bucks, 
for  io£  years  past   

4.  Will.  s.  of  Rich,  [as  36/^/4]   

5.  Osbert,  s.  of  Rich,  [as  36/W/5]  ... 

9n.  Sh.  for  increment  of  Bucks,  for 
this  year   

PURPRESTURES  AND  ESCHEATS. 

1.  Half  Hund.  of  Stanbrige   

2.  Farm  of  Hanewich   

3.  Land  of  Lambricht   

4.  Will.  s.  of  Rich.,  for  meadow  of 
Akelay,  last  year  8s.  4d.,  this  year 
Ss.  4d  

6.  Farm  of  a  hide  which  was  of  Hugh 
Hatecrist   


to  v  73 

Due.  Paid.  Balance. 

H.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 


5  »7   9  no. 
40   o   o  bl.        37  16   8  bl. 

10  hawks 

40  hawks 
29  hawks 
9  hawks 

10    o    o        10    0    0         4  hawks 

200         2   0  0* 
40  4  0* 

40  4  Of 

16   8  16  8 

150  150* 


n.  New  entry.  *  By  3  tallies,  3!!-  9s. 

t  By  2  tallies,  5s.  (V/6  and  V/13). 


74 


ROLL  39  i   \   to  vii  B 


Due.  Paid.  Baton-, 

li.    n.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  i 

11.  Will.  s.  of  Rich.,  increment  of 
Bruhella,  land  of  Will,  do  Rochella, 

last  year  2I1.,  ihis  year  2li   400  400 

12.  Land  which  was  of  Rob*.  I.escot  in 
Ailesberia,  which  Will,  de  Sancte 

Marie  ecclesi?  has      5    o  5  Ot 

13.  Farm  of  the  ?and  of  Will.  Pictaven- 

sis  in  Ailesberia    10  1  Ot 

H 

21.  Old  farm  cf  Swaneburu'  [1191], 
but  Sh.  savs  it.  should  be  demanded 
of  John   Maresc1,   who   then  had 

custody  of  escheat?     ....      1    3    5  1    3  5 

22.  Farm  of  Swaneburn'   [this  year]     420  4    2  Ot 

vi  ARREARS. 

2.  Will.  s.  of  Nigel  [as  35/vi/2]    200  200 

4.  Gilb.  Passelewe,  for  Right  for  a 
fee  of  2  Kts.  agst.  Raif  and  Thos. 
de  WrocheshaT,  but  he  has  not 

Right  [n8o]    368  3   6  8 

5.  Villate  of  Ailesberia,  tor  murder 

[1183]    100  100 

6.  Villate    of    Luiton',    for  murder 

[1*8  5  ]    168  1    6  * 

9.  Jordan  clericus  of  Hameleden,  for 

default   [1191]    33    6    8  33   6  5 

vii  PLEAS  BEFORE  JUSTICES  IN  EYRE. 

vii  A  BEFORE  WILL.  DE  VER  AND  HIS  FEL- 

LOWS, 1 185. 

3.  Regin.  s.  of  ^Ern',  because  he 
withdrew  from  his  appeal,  but  he 
is  dead,   and  nothing   of  his  is 

found    20  2  c 

7.  Ralf  pistor,  for  pledge  of  Alueua 

and  Toka    5    4  54 

Vii  B  BEFORE  GEOFF.    FITZ   PETER  :  FOREST 

PLEAS,   1 185. 

2.  Godwin  Brunus,  for  flight  of  Will.  18  *  ^ 

4.  John  de  Bekenesfeld,  for  disseisin  10  *  0 

7.  Wife  of  An  got,  for  custody  of  his 

son  and  land    5  13    4  5  *3  4 

BEFORE  HUGH  DE  MOREWICH  AND  HIS 
FELLOWS,  IlS6. 

9.  Will.  s.  of  Geoff.,  for  disseisin    30  3  c 

10.  Payn  Blundus,  for  disseisin    48  10  3 


11.  Gundwin      de      Estcota  [as 

35/viiB/n]    34  3  * 


f  See  note  t  on  previous  page.  t  By  2  tallies,  7s. 


ROLL  39  :    vii  C  to  viiF 


75 


Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 

12.  Walt.  s.  of  Nich.,  for  false  claim          58  58 

13.  Roger  telar',  for  disseisin                       6    8  6  8 

15.  Fulk  de  Hugenden  [as  35/viiB/i5]     220  220 

16.  Hamo  s.  of  Hamo  s.  of  Meinfelin 

[as   35/viiB/i6]                                23  18    4  23  18  4 

vil  C  BEFORE       GEOFFREY      FITZ       PETER  : 

FOREST  PLEAS,  1187. 

1.  Sh.,  for  small  essarts  in  Beds   73  73 

2.  Gilo  de  Pinkeigni,  for  waste    10   o  10  o 

4.  Hamo  de  Padeberia,  for  waste  ...  10  o  10  o 
7.  Sh.  [as  35/v"C/7]                                 14   o  14  o 

vii  D  BEFORE    RALF    ARCHDEACON    OF  COL- 

CHESTER  AND   HIS   FELLOWS  BEDS., 
1 188. 

1.  Frankpledge  of  Robt.  Colrun,  for 

estreated  pledge    29  29 

3.  Sh.,  from  Half  Hund.  of  Bukelawa, 

for  murder    5    1  5  1 

6.  Thos.  de  Wrocheshulla,    for  dis- 
seisin   26  1    o  16 

7.  Rich,  de  Benehala,  for  disseisin  ...  52  52 

vii  E  BEFORE  THE  SAME,  IN  BUCKS.,   1 1 88. 

2.  Hugh  de  Croston,  because  he  did 

not  sue    5    8  5  8 

7.  Rich,  de  Padeberia,  for  pledge  of 

Peter    14  14 

10.  Frankpledge  of  Ailward  de  Senlea, 

for  estreated  pledge    1  10  1  10 

13.  Elyas  de  Wauenden,  for  false  claim  48  48 
r$.  Rich.  s.  of  Aldeua  [as  3;/viiE/i5]  6    8  6  8 

vii  F  BEFORE  GEOFF.   FITZ  PETER  AND  HIS 

FELLOWS,  BEDS.,  1189. 

5.  Sh.,  from  Bikleswada  Hund.,  for 

false  presentment    26  26 

6.  Robt.  s.  of  Ailric  de  Rauenesden, 

for  false  claim    11  11 

8.  Rich.  s.  of  Aldeua,  for  the  same  ...  6    8  6  8 

9.  Ralf.   s.   of  ^Edric,  for  estreated 

pledge    3    o  10  20 

14.  Ralf  piscator,  for  false  claim    6    8  6  8 

15.  Tithing  of  Gilb.  de  Hoccliua,  for 

escape  of  Walt.    6    8  6  8 

16.  Ralf  de  Stapelford,  for  escape  of 

Geoff   <5    6  5  6 

17.  Hen.  s.  of  Pet.  de  Kemeston,  for 

disseisin    6    8  6  S 


76  ROLL  39  i   vii  G  to  vii  L 

Due.  Paid.  Balar.cr 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  <j 

viiG  BEFORE  THE  SAME,  PUCKS.,  1189. 

3.  Ralf  de  Muresiea,  for  dyke  wrong- 
fully raised   61  6  i 

6.  Sh.,  from  Muresiea    Hund.,  for 

murder    10  1  o 

9.  Walt,  de  Bidun,  for  false  claim  ...200  2  o  o 
10.  Ralf  forest'  [as  55/viiO/io]                      68  6S 

12.  Ralf  molendin",  for  default    54  54 

13.  John  mercator,  for  default    62  6  a 

14.  Robt.  fullo,  for  estreated  pledge  ...  58  5  F 

16.  Robt.  mercator  of  Kolnea,  for  the 

same   6    8  6  8 

17.  Barth.  dec[anus]  [as  35/VUG/17]  6    8  6  8 

OFFERINGS  TO  THE  COURT. 

19.  Hugh  de  Nuers,  for  fine  of  his 
bro.'s  land  of  the  Honor  of  Earl 

Giffard    10   o  10  0 

22.  Urban    de    Herlingedon    [as  in 

35/viiG/22]   100  ioc 

Vli  H  BEFORE  GEOFF.  FITZ  PETER  :  FOREST 

PLEAS,   BEDS. ,  Iigo. 

3.  Robt.   de  Russenden,    because  he 
had  not  the  warrantor  whom  he 

vouched   6   8         0    0  0 

a.  to  Knighthood  of  the  Temfle  in 
gift  by  the  Kg.'s  writ    6  8 

Vii  J  BEFORE  THE  SAME  IN  BUCKS.,  II90. 

4.  Sh.,  for  small  items  of  the  Forest 

of  Bucks.,  below  £  mark    1    5    9  1    5  9 

Vii  K  BEFORE  THE  ABBOT  OF  PETERBOROUGH 

AND  HIS  FELLOWS,  BEDS.,  1191. 

I.  Will.  s.  of  Halenad,  for  not  pur- 
suing his  appeal    6    8  6  « 

3.  Will.  Wischard  [as  in  37/viiK/3]     4  14    8  8    8  4  6 

9.  Rog.  de  Pirie,  for  not  pursuing  _ 
his  appeal    48  4  ' 

10.  John  de  Curci,  for  the  same    6    8  6  * 

Vii  L  BEFOR^  THE  SAME  IN  BUCKS.,  II.91. 

3.  Nick,  de  Bereuill',  for  withdrawal  20  2  c 

5.  Robt.  propositus,  for  disseisin  ...  18  18 

6.  Adam  de  Campania,  for  the  same  62  0  * 

13.  Villate  of  Ailesberia,  for  murder        13    4  J3  A 

14.  Gilb.  man  of  Alan  le  Bret',  for 
withdrawal    6  8 


6 


1  v 


Will,  de  Verdun,  for  disseisin  ...  6  8 


ROLL    39  :    vii  M 


77 


Dae.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 

rii  M  NEW    PLEAS    AND    NEW  AGREEMENTS 

BEFORE  GEOFF.  FITZ  PETER,  OSBF.RT 
S.  OF  HERVEY,  MICH.  BELET,  WILL. 
RUFFUS,  AND  THEIR  FELLOWS  IN 
BEDS. 

in.  Frankpledge      of      Gerard  cf 

Tudingeton,  for  escape  of  Hervey  6    8  39  2  11 

2n.  Will.  s.  of  Herb.,  for  estreated 

Pledge    6    8  34  34 

3n.  Will,  de  la  Hyda,  for  the  same  ...         6   8  34  34 

4n.  Robt.    de    Middelton,    for  false 

claim    6    8  60  8 

511.  Will,  camerarius  de  Luiton,  for 

wrongful  detention    200  1  10    o  10  o 

6n.  Will,  de  la  Haia,  for  withdrawal         6   8  54  14 

7n.  Will,  de  Ho,  because  he  denied 

that  whereof  he  was  convicted  ...  6    8  5    4  1  4 

8n.  Sh.,  from  Flitte  Hund.  for  con- 
cealment   100  15    6  46 

9n.  Sh.,  from  Wixtonestre  Hund.  for 

murder    100  12  0 

a.  to  monks  of  Wardon    5  o 

b.  to     Knighthood     of  the 
Temple    10 

c.  to  Brethren  of  the  Hospital  1  3 

d.  to  nuns  of  Chikesand    // 

fdn,  by  Royal  Charter    8  o 

ion.  Sh.,  from  Redburgestok'  Hund., 

for  murder    100  11  0 

a.  to  Brethren  of  the  Hospital  1  6 

b.  to     Knighthood     of  the 

T  em  fie   /  o 

c.  to  monks  of  Rading[es~]  ...  0 

d.  to  Earl  David    2  6 

e.  to  nuns  of  Elstow  (Alnesto)  5  j 

fdn.  by  Royal  Charter    9  o 

1  in.  WTill.    s.    of   Ordwin,   for  with- 
drawal   6   8  6  8 

i2n.  Villate  of  Forda   without  Eton, 

for  escape  of  Roger    6   8  6  8 

13a.  Frankpledge  of  Rog.  s.  of  Warin 
de  Torneoota,  for  escape  of  Rich. 

Cute    6   8  6  8 

I4n.  Ernis'  de  Middelton,  because  he 

refused  to  be  a  juror  (iurare)    10   o  10  o 

i^n.  Frankpledge  of  Turkill  of  Camel- 
ton,  for  escape  of  Geoff,  and  Warin  6    8  6  8 


n.  New  entry. 


78  ROLL  39  :   vii  M,   vii  N 

Due.  Paid.  Balance 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 

i6n.  Will,  de  Otringeham,  for  dis- 
seisin                                                6   8  6  8 

1712.  Will.  s.  of  Harold,  for  the  same, 
13s.  4d.,  but  he  accounts  below, 
before  the  account  of  Will  Mares- 
callus  [ixC/6]. 

i8n.  Hamo  s.  of  Hamo,  for  disseisin...         13    4  13  4 

ion.  Rich,  de  Vernun,  because  he  did 

not  prosecute    100  100 

2on.  Ascer  de  Hadestoche  for  estreated 

pledge    6    8  6  8 

2m.  Walt,  prepositus  de  Hadestoche, 

for  the  same    6   8  6  8 

22B.  Ralf   s.   of   Golda,    for   a  dyke 

wrongfully  raised    6    8  6  8 

23m  Walt.     Porteioie,    for  estreated 

pledge    6   8  6  8 

24n.  Will,    de    Kingeshull',    for  the 

same    6   8  6  8 

2<5n.  Walt.  s.  of  Robt.  Pertesuil,  for 
false  essoin,  by  pledge  of  Will  de 

Stippingelega    6    8  6  8 

26n.  Sh.,  small  amercements  of  men  in 

Beds,  by  the  aforesaid  justices    268         2    6  8* 

Vii  N  PLEAS  BEFORE  THE  SAME  IN  BUCKS. 

in.  Regin.  Barat,  for  not  prosecuting 

his  appeal    6    8  48  20 

2n.  Frankpledge  of  Will  Seluein,  for 

escape  of  Rog.  s.  of  Leuiua    6    8  58  10 

3n.  Alan  s.  of  Robt,  for  withdrawal  6    8  40  28 

4n.  Will  de  Clynton,  for  disseisin  ...  200  11 3  4  68 
«;n.  Sh.,  from  Rich  de  Camera  for 

estreated  pledge    6    8  6  8t 

6n.  Sh.  from  Will  de  Loveinte,  for 

the  same    6    8  6  8t 

70.  Sh.   from  Herefrid  clericus,  for 

the  same    6   8  6  8t 

8n.  Sh.,  from  Ailesberia  Hund.,  for 

murder   13    4  10  3 

a.  to  Christ  Church,  Canter- 
bury   2  6 

b.  to    Will,    de    ste.  Mere 

Eglise    j 

e.  to  Brethren  of  the  Hospital  4 

fdn.  by  Royal  Charter   '.  3  1 


n.  New  entry.  *  By  7  tallies,  2li.  6s.  8d. 

+  By  3  tallies,  ili. 


ROLL  55  :   vii  W  to  ix  A  79 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 

gn.  WiD.  s.  of  Robt.,  because  he  5 id 

not  prosecute                                          6   8  6  8 

ion.  Will.  Basset  of  Draiton,  for  es- 
treated pledge    6    8  6  8 

i in.  Rich.  BeHden,  for  the  same    6    8  6  8 

i2n.  Ralf  de  Burestroda,  for  the  same  6    8  6  8 

i3n.  Geoff,    de    [Upton J,    for  with- 
drawal   [6    8]  [6  8] 

i4.n.  Frankpledge  of   Will;    Coc,  for 

escape  of  Aiiward    6    8  6  8 

i$n.  Frankpledge  of  Rauening  de  Rad- 

don,  for  escape  of  John  le  Fals  ...  6    8  6  8 

i6n.  Frankpledge     of     Wimund  de 
Esselega  in  Cestresham  for  [escape 

of  Hamo]    6    8  6  8 

viliA  SCUTA GE   OF  WALES   IN   BEDS.,  1190. 

U  Robt.  de  Albeneio,  for  his  Kts.  ...990  990 

2.  Sim.  de  Bello  campo,  for  his  Kts.    10    o    4  10    o  4 

3.  Sim.  de  Wahella    15    o  15  o 

viii  B  THE  SAME  SCUTAGE  IN  BUCKS. ,  II90. 

1.  Will,  de  Wind'r'    4  10  10  4  10  10 

2.  Will.  Mald[uit],  the  Chamberlain         17    6  17  6 

8.  Hamo  s.  of  Hamo  s.  of  Meinfelin     400  400 

9.  Hen.  de  Pinkeigni    6  15   o  6  15  o 

ix  A        promises,  1190. 

7.  Ralf   Gibewin,   to  have  seisin  of 

4li.  of  land  in  Weuedon    300  300 

8.  Will,  de  Stodham  [as  in  36/ixA/S]    10    o    o  10    o  o 

9.  Jordan  Lenueise  [as  in  36/ixA/9]     4  13    4  13    4  400 

10.  Gilb.     de    Maperteshal'     [as  in 

36/ixA/io]    13   6    8  13    6  8 

14.  Robt.    s.    of    Ralf   s.  of  {'Robt.} 

Bernard  [as  in  36/ixA/i4]    16  13    4  16  13  4 

15.  Will,  de  ste.  Mere  Eglise  [as  in 

38/1XA/15]    368  368 

22.  Will.  Marescall',  to  have  a  moiety 

of  the  land  of  Earl  Giffard  ......  171    7    4         0    0  0 

a.  Balance  of  receipts  and  out- 
goings from  the  time  of  war ;  acct. 
rendered  below*    lyi  7  4 

23.  WTalt.      de      Wind'r*      [as  in 

37/ixA/23]    49    3    4  49    3  4 


n.  New  entry. 

*  At  the  foot  of  this  membrane.    The  details  of  this  account  have  no  direct 
bearing  on  the  finance  of   Beds,  or  Bucks. 


80  ROLL  39  :    ix  B   to  x  B 

Due.  Paid.  Brvlan  •■»• 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  i 

ix  B  OFFERINGS  TO  THE  COURT  THROUGH 

THE  CHANCELLOR,  110,1. 

I.  Rog.  seruiens  of  Querendon,  ar- 
rears of  his  fine                                972  13    4          8  13  10 

a.  Rich,  de  Pertehal'  for  the  same  fine     968  200          7   6  S 

5.  Ralf  Gibewin  [as  in  37/ixB/5]  ...200  20c 

6.  Robt.  s.  of  Robt.  de  Albeneio  for 

his  Relief    92    3    4  92    3  4 

IX  C  NEW  OFFERINGS  BEFORE  W.  ABP.  OF 

ROUEN  AND  OTHER  JUSTICES. 

in.  Regin.  of  Hocton  to  have  before 
the  justices  in  Beds,  his  plea  agst. 

Ebrard  de  Seuewell    6    8  6  8 

2n.  Hugh  de  Saleford.  for  Right  con- 
cerning a  fee  of  i  Kt.  in  Stodfalde 

agst.  Walt  Russel    i    6    8  i    6  8 

3n.  Aubrey  de  Ver,  to  have  an  in- 
quisition of  the  land  which  was 

Walt,  de  Bolebech's    6  13    4  6  13  4 

4n.  Will,  de  Clynton,  to  have  seisin 
of  his  land  of  Eston  which  is  a 
Larderer  Serjeanty,  until  the  Kg.'s 

coming      6  13    4  [3   6  S] 

a.  to  Will,  de  Clynton  to  buy  a 
horse,  by  Royal  writ    368 

50.  Walt,  de  Stiueclea,  for  his  judg- 
ment which  he  had  agst.  Rog.  de 

Glanuill    5    o    o  500 

6n.  Will.  s.  of  Harold,  for  disseisin 

[dropped  from  viiM/17]    13    4         0    0  0 

a.  Gift  to  Brethren  of  the  Hospital, 
by  Royal  writ    /j  4 

X  JUDAICA. 

X  A  DEBTS    OF   AARON  THE  JEW   OF  LIN- 

COLN, 1 191. 

1.  Will,  de  Tureuilla,  on  his  lands 

of  Linton  and  Fulebroch  and  Wilia    So    o    o  80   o  0 

2.  Will,  de  Tureuilla,  on  his  land  of 

Hameldon'    6    3    4  6    3  4 

3.  Hen.  de  Clinton,  by  charter    3  13    4  3  13  4 

4.  Earl  Simon  [as  in  37/XA/4]    50    o   o  50   o  o 

5.  Nich.  de  Traili,  by  charter    700  700 

X  B  OFFERINGS   THROUGH   THE  CHANCEL- 

LOR, II91. 

I.  Aaron  bro.  of  Leon  of  Dunestapl' 

[as  in  37/xB/i]    i    o   o  1   0  o 


n.  New  entry. 


ROLL  39  :   x  B,   x  C  81 


Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    3.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 


Mosse  s.  of  Mcsse  for  a  debt  ci 
5  mks.  agst.  Geoff,  de  Lega   i 

Josce  s.  of  Mosse,  for  20s.  agst. 
Gilb.  Passelewe   


4.  Guy  de  sarcto  Vvalerico,   of  the 
debt  of  Aaron,  for  fine  which  he 

made  with  the  Chance)  lor   5   o   o         0    0  0 

a.  to  the  same  Guy,  -pdn  by  Royal 
writ   500 

OFFERINGS  THROUGH  WALT.  ABP.  OF 
ROUEN,  Iig2. 

1.  Ursell  de  Gipeswfich]  Tand  others 

as  in  38/xC/i]   33   6   8  50        33    1  8 

2.  Walder    de    Wicumba,    to  have 

4  mks.  of  Rog.  de  Hugenden    6    8  6  8 

3.  Hugh  de  Gyrunda  [as  in  38/XC/3]     200  200 


82 


ROLL   40  :   ol  to  ii  D 


ROLL  40:   6  RIC.   I:  1194. 


MEMBRANE  13. 


And  thus  he  is  quit. 


$  yr   24  4  o  no, 

6.  The  same,  in  Radeneche ,  \  yr. 

200  no. 


Due.  Paid.  Balao-  ? 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  c 

oi  [account      of     the  outgoing 

SHERIFF.] 

William  Ruffus  accounts    as  fol- 
lows : 

Farm  of  the  Shires,  for  year  be- 
fore last   40    7    2  no.  40    7    2  no. 

Farm  of  the  Shires,  for  last  year     5  17    9  no.  5  17  911c. 

which  stood  over   until  the  Kg. 
order  otherwise. 

Farm  of  the  Shires,  for  half  of 

this  year      36   4    4  bl. 

44    8    8  no. 

CREDIT    £Y  ALLOWANCES. 

in  Fixed  Alms  for  %  yr.  ...  /  10  5 
in    Lands    Granted,    noted  below 
go  o  o  bl. 

in  Lands  Granted  noted  below  and 

reckoned  numero    [58  4  2]  no. 

to  -  -  -  Renfr'  for  custody  of  the 
Tower  of  London  by  roy.  writ 

10  o  o 

Surplus  gli.  2s.  3d.  reckoned  to 
him  above  in  his  farm  no.  as 
gli.  11s.  4d.  no. 


1  FARM  OF  THE  SHIRES. 

[Simon]  de  Bello  campo,  farm  of 

the  Shires,  £  yr   29    6   o  bl. 

15   o   o  no. 

ii  ALLOWANCES. 

ii  A     J>  Knights  of  the  Temple    168 

2.  Brethr.  of  the  Hospital  of  Witscnd, 

\  yr  15  2\ 

ii  C    /-  [See  xiiA/ja'] 

3.  John  Piedefer,  %  yr   75  2$ 

ii  D     /.  Monks  of  Wuburn  in  Mill  of  Leoc- 
ton,  \  yr   16  o  no. 

2.  [See  xiiAj3b] 

3.  [Brethr.  of  the]  Hospital  of  Wit- 
sand,  in  Luiton,  \  yr   100 

5.  Nuns  of  F ontevrault  in  Leocton, 


ROLL    40  i   :i  »  t,< 


83 


Due. 
li.    s.  d. 


Paid, 
li.    s.  d. 


Balance, 
li.    s.  d. 


7.  The  same,  in  Brichull,  %  yr. 

16  0  no, 

8.  Wischard  Leidet  in  Hida  de 
Hulmo,  \  yr.    1$  o  no. 

g.  Roger  Foil  lutraHtts  in  AUesberia 
in  the  land  which  was  of  sErnis 
reeve   8  o 

10.  Engelram  de  Fenles  in  W endoura 
and.  Eiion   ,  ,   30  o  o  no. 

11.  a.  Gilbt.  Basset,  in  manor  of  Hoc- 
ton'  with  affurtencncsss  \  yr. 

10  o  o  bl. 

b.  Will,  de  ste.  Mire  Egliie  in  the 
same  manor  for  which  he  answers 
in  the  Escheat  Roll  [xiiiC/8  below'\ 
[?  //  10  0} 

12.  Baldwin  de  Betton\  in  Luiion,  $ 
yr   40  o  o  bl. 

13.  Vill  of  Bedeford,  \  yr.,  account 
rendered  below  [Hi]   20  o  o  bl. 

14.  In  BruheW,  for  which  Will.  s.  of 
Rie.  should  answer  as  the  Sh. 
says  [xiiA/3]    jo  o  o  bl. 

i$n.  Will,    de    ste.    Mere    Egl.  in 
Radeneche,  |   yr.,  for  which  he 
answers  in  Escheat  Roll  [xiiiB/6] 
500  bl. 

qn.  Works  on  the  Kg.'s  house  in 
Bruhell,  reckoned  to  htm  in  the 
farm  numero    2500  no. 

[Sh.  owes  and  pays] 
And  he  owes 

Farm  of  the  Burgh  of  Bedeford, 

1  year   

[a.  fixed  alms  to  Thos.  uenator , 
2li.  5s.  7\d.,  reckoned  when 
blanched  as  #   2  3  4] 

INCREMENT  AND  BALANCE,  t 

i,  2.  [Oger  s.  of  Oger]  2*  yrs.  past 
when  he  had  the  shires   

3.  6,  7,  8,  9.  [Will.  Ruffus,  for  £  yr. 
last  past  and  io£  other  yrs.]   

4.  [Will.  s.  of  Ric.  for  the  term] 
when  he  had  the  shires   

5.  [Osb.  s.  of  Ric]  increment  of 
Bucks,  for  2\  yrs.  of  his  father's 
time  


4  to. 


14   o   o  no. 


40   o   o  bl  37  16    8  bl. 


[10  hawks] 
42  hawks 
[29  hawks] 

[9  hawks] 


t  Much  of  this  section  is  illegible,  but  supplied  by  other  Rolls. 


84  ROLL  40  :   v  to  rii  B 

MEMBRANE   13  DORSO. 

Due.  Paid.  Balaam 

li.    s.  d.        Li.    s.  d.       li.  s. 

ion.  Sh.,  increment  of  Bucks., 

i  yr   5    o  o 

i in.  and  for  \  yr.  by  the  hand 

of  Will.  Ruffus    5    o  o 

[io   o   o]  [io    o   o]       10    0  0* 

V  PURPRESTURES  AND  ESCHEATS. 

x,  Sh.,  for  Half  Hund.  of  Stanbrige, 

i  yr   2   o   o  2   0  0* 

2.  Sh.,  for  farm  of  Hanewich,  ^  yr.  20  2  Ot 

3.  Sh.,  for  land  of  Lambricht    40  4  0§ 

4.  Will.  s.  of  Ric.,  for  meadow  of 

Akelay    84  8  ; 

6.  Sh.,  for  farm  cf  the  hide  which 

was  of  Hatecrist,  £  yr   12    6  12  6t 

11.  Will.  s.  of  Ric,  increment  of 
BruhelLa    for    land   of    Will,  de 

Rochella  of  the  same    200  20c 

12.  Sh.,  for  land  which  was  of  Robt. 

Lescot  in  Ailesberia,  1  yr   50  5  0** 

13.  Sh.,  for  farm  of  land  of  Will.  Pic- 

tauensis  in  Ailesberia    i    o  1  0§ 

21.  Sh.,  for  old  farm  of  Suaneburn', 
but  this  is  to  be  required  of  John 
mares'  who  then  had  custody  of 

escheats,  as  the  Sh.  says  [1191]  ...135  1    3  1 

22.  Sh.,  for  farm  of  Suaneburn,  £  yr.     210         2    1  0**. 

vi  ARREARS. 

2.  Will.  s.  of  Nigel  [as  35/vi/2]    200  20  " 

4.  Gilbt.  Passelewe  [as  39/vi/3]    368  3.  6  *  « 

5.  Villate  of  Ailesberia,  for  murder 

[1183]    X    O    O  I    o  « 

6.  Villate    of    Luiton,    for  murder 

[1185]    168'  16s 

9.  Jordan  clericus  of  Hameleden,  for 

default  [1191]    33    6    8  53  6 

Vii  PLEAS  BEFORE  JUSTICES  IN  EYRE. 

Vli  B  BEFORE      GEOFFREY      FITZ      PETER  : 

FOREST  PLEAS,  1185. 

2.  Godwin  Brunus,  for  escape  of  Will.  i    8  1 

4.  John  de  Bekenesfeld,  for  disseisin  10  10 

7.  Wife  of  Ansgot,  for  wardship  of 

his  s.  and  land    5  13   4  5  l3  4 


*  By  2  tallies,  loli.  $  By  3  tallies,  5s. 

t  By  3'tallies,  2li.  14s.  6d.  **  By  "2  tallies,  2li.  6s. 


ROLL  40  :   vii  B   to  vii  F 


85 


Due. 
li.    s.  d. 


BEFORE  HUGH  DE  MOREWICH  AND  HIS 
FELLOWS,   1 1 86. 

q.  Will.  s.  of  Geoff.,  for  disseisin  ...  3  o 

10.  Payn  Blundus,  for  disseisin    3  8 

11.  Gundwin     de     Estcota  [as 
35/viiB/ii]    3  4 

12.  Walt.  s.  of  Nich.,  for  false  claim  5  8 

13.  Rog.  Telar',  for  disseisin    6  8 

15.  Fulk  de  Hugenden  [as  35/viiB/ic;]  220 
[Nos.  2,  7,  9,  11,  12  are  "  to  be 
required  of  Will,  de  ste.  Mere  Egl. 
in  the  Honour  of  Warengeford  " 
but  reappear  in  Roll  41.] 

vii  C  BEFORE      GEOFFREY      FITZ      PETER  : 

FOREST  PLEAS,  1187. 

1.  Sh.,  for  small  essarts  of  Beds.  ...  7  3 

2.  Giles  de  Pinkeigny,  for  waste  ...         10  o 

4.  Hamo  de  Fadeberia,  for  waste  ...  io  o 
7.  Sh.  [as  35/viiC/7l    J4  ° 

viiD  BEFORE    RALF    ARCHDEACON    OF  COL- 

CHESTER, BEDS.,   1 1 88. 

1.  Frankpledge  of  Ric.  Colrun,  be- 
cause they  had  not  whom  they 
pledged    2  9 

3.  Sh.,  for  Bukelaewa  Hund.,  for 
murder    5  1 

6.  Thos.  de  Wrocheshulla,  for  dis- 
seisin   1  6 

7.  Ric.  de  Benehal',  for  disseisin  ...  5  2 

vjj  £  BEFORE  [RALF  THE  ARCHDEACON  AND 

HIS  FELLOWS:]   BUCKS.,  Il88. 

2.  Hugh  de  Croston,  because  he  did 

not  sue    5  8 

7.  Ric.  de  Padeberia,  for  pledge  of 

Peter    i  4 

10.  Frankpledge  of  Ailward  de  Senlea, 

for  estreated  pledge    1  10 

13.  Elias  de  Wauenden',  for  false  claim  3  8 

15.  Ric.  s.  of  Aldeua,  for  declaration 
agst.  Ric.  de  Querendon'  by  pledge 
of  Hen.  de  Stokton'    6  8 

Vii  p  BEFORE  GEOFFREY  FITZ  PETER,  BEDS., 

1189. 

5.  Sh.,  from  Bicleswada  Hund.,  for 

false  presentment    2  6 

6.  Robt.  s.  of  Ailric  of  Rauenesden, 

for  false  claim    11 


Paid.  Balance, 
li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

3  o 
3  § 

3  4 

5  8 

6  8 

20  200 


7  3 

10  o 

IO  o 

14  o 


2  9 

5  1 

6  10 

5  * 

1  4 

4  1  6 

3  8 

6  S 

2  6 


86 


ROLL  40  :    vii  F  to  vii  L 


withdrawal    6 


i.  Will.  s.  of  Halenad,  for  not  pur- 

suing  his  appeal    6    8'  *> 

3.  Will.  Wischard  [as  in  37/viiK/3]     460  60  4   0  0 

9.  Rog.  de  Pirie,  for  not  pursuing  his 

appeal    4    8  20  2 

10.  John  de  Curci,  for  the  same    6    8  6 

Vii  L  BEFORE   THE    SAME,   BUCKS. ,  II91. 

V  Nich.  de  Bereuill',  for  withdrawal  20  2  c' 

■*  ( 
6.  Adam  de  Campania,  for  disseisin  62  6  5 

13.  Villate  of  Ailesberia,  for  murder         13    4  *3  * 

14.  Gilbt.  man  of  Aim  le  Bret',  for 


6 


I 


Due.               Paid.  BaLtti  - 

li.  s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.  s. 

8.  Ric.  s.  of  Aldeua,  for  false  claim  6    8  6  i 

9.  Ralf  s.  of  yEdric,    for  estreated 
pledge    20  2  0 

14.  Robt.    [sic]    piscator,    for  false 

claim    6   8  6  I 

16.  Ralf  de  Stapelford,  for  escape  of 
Geoff   5   6  5  6 

17.  Hen.  s.  of  Pet.  de  Kemeston,  for 
wrongful  disseisin    6    8  6  I 

Vii  G  BEFORE  THE  SAME,  BUCKS.,  1189. 

3.  Ralf  de  Mureslea,  for  dyke  wrong- 
fully raised    61  4  5  <; 

6.  Sh..  from  Mureslea    Hund.,  for 

murder    10  10 

9.  Walt,  de  Bidon,  for  false  claim  ...200  20c 

10.  Ralf  forest',  [as  35/viiG/io]                   6    8  •     6  | 

12.  Ralf  molendinar'j  for  default                    5    4  5  < 

13.  John  mercator,  for  default                       62  6  j 

14.  Robt.  Fullo,  for  estreated  pledge          58  5  £ 

16.  Robt.  mercator  de  Holnea,  for  the 

same    6    8  6  S 

17.  Barth.  Dec[anus]  [as  35/viiG/ij]         6    8  6  ? 

OFFERINGS  TO  THE  COURT. 

22.  Urban    de    Herlingedon    [as  in 

35/viiG/22]    100  20  18  0 

vii  J  BEFORE  GEOFFREY  FITZ  PETER,  BUCKS., 

1 190. 

4.  Sh.,  small  items    of    the  Forest, 

Bucks.,  under  £  mk   1    5    9  x    5  9 

viiK  BEFORE      THE      ABBOT      OF  PETER- 

BOROUGH, BEDS.,  Iig,!. 


IS- 


Will,  de  Verdun,  for  disseisin    6  8 


ROLL   40:    vii  M,   vii  N 


87 


Due.  Paid.  Balance. 

Ii.    s.  3.         li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

M  BEFORE  GEOFFREY  FITZ  PETER,  BEDS., 

"93- 

1.  Frankpledge  of  Gerard  de  Tud- 

ingeton,  for  escape  of  Hervey    2  n  22  9 

2.  Will.  s.  of  Herbert,  for  estreated 

pledge    3    4  3  4 

3.  Will,  de  la  Hyda,  for  the  same  ...  34  34 

4.  Sh.,  for  Robt.  de  Middelton',  for 

false  claim    8  8* 

5.  Sh.,  for  Will,  camerarius  de  Lui- 

ton,  for  amercement    10   o  10  0* 

6.  Will,  de  la  Haya,  for  withdrawal  14  14 

7.  Will,  de  Ho  [as  39/viiM/7]    14  14 

8.  Sh.,  from  Flitte  Hund.,  for  con- 
cealment   46  46 

11.  Sh.,  from  Will.  s.  of  Ordwin,  for 

withdrawal   6    8  6  8* 

12.  Villate  of  For  da  without  Etton,  for 

escape  of  Rog   6    8  .  6  8 

13.  Frankpledge  of  Rog.  s.  of  Warin 

de  Torencota  [as  3g/viiM/i3]    6    S  6  8 

14.  Ernis  de  Middelton',  because  he 

refused  to  be  a  juror    10   o  10  o 

15.  Frankpledge  of  Turkill  de  Camel- 
ton  [as  39/viiM/i5]    6    8  6  8 

16.  Will,  de  Otringeham,  for  disseisin  6    8  6  8 

18.  Hamo  s.  of  Hamo,  for  disseisin  ...         13    4  13  4 

19.  Ric.  de  Vernun,   because  he  did 

not  prosecute    100  100 

20.  Ascer  de  Fladestoke,  for  estreated 

pledge    6    S  6  8 

21.  Walt,  prepositus    de  Hadestoch', 

for  the  same    6    8  6  8 

22.  Sh.,   from   Ralf  s.   of  Golde  [as 

39/viiM/22]    6    8  6  8* 

23.  Walt.     Porteioie,     for  estreated 

pledge    6    8  6  8 

24.  Will,  de  Kingeshull,  for  the  same  6    8  6  8 

25.  Sh.,  fiom  Walt.  s.  of  Robt.  Per- 

tesuil  [as  3g/viiM/25]    6    8  6  8* 

iN  BEFORE  THE  SAME,  BUCKS.,   1 193. 

1.  Sh.,  from  Regin.   Barat,  for  not 

prosecuting  his  appeal    20  2  0* 

2.  Sh.,    from    frankpledge    of  Ric. 

Seluein  [as  3o/viiX/2]    10  10* 

*  See  note  *  on  following  page. 


88 


ROLL   40  :   vii  N  to  vm  G 


Due 

Paid. 

Bahr>  « 

li. 

3. 

d. 

li. 

s. 

d. 

li. 

s. 

3.  Sh.,  from  Alan  s.  cf  Robt.,  because 

2 

8 

2 

8* 

4.  Sh.,   from  Will,   de   Clinton,  for 

6 

8 

6 

8* 

9.  Sh.,  from  [Will.]  s.  of  Robt.,  be- 

tdUaC    He    Cil  v.1    XJUl    \Jl  KJ^iSl  .Ulc  

0 

Q 

0 

0 

c* 
0 

10.  Will.  Basset  de  Draiton  ,  for  es- 

O 
O 

< 
0 

6 

O 

b 

6 

s 

12.  Ralf  de  Burestroda,  lor  the  same 

6 

8 

6 

; 

13.  Sh.,  from   Geoff,   de   Upton,  for 

6 

8 

6 

8* 

14.  Frankpledge  of  Will.  Coc,  for  es- 

6 

0 
0 

6 

V 

I         T  I  dllKpiCUgC    OI    IS  dutrlllllg    Uc  .1x311- 

6 

8 

6 

< 

16.  Sh.,  from  frankpledge  of  Wimund 

de  Esselega  [as  39/viiN/i6]   

O 

8 

6 

8 

SCUTAGE  OF  WALES,  BEDS.t  II90. 

9 

9 

0 

9 

9 

0 

10 

0 

4 

10 

0 

4 

0 

i5 

0 

THE   SAME  IN  BUCKS.,  II90. 

i.  Will,  de  Windr'   

4 

10 

10 

4 

10 

10 

17 

6 

17 

6 

8.  Hamo  s.  of  Hamo  s.  of  Meinfelin 

4 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

6 

T  £ 

0 

6 

1  c 

c 

SCUTAGE  OF  KNIGHTS  FOR  RANSOM  OF 

THE  LORD  KING. 

I  C 

-J 

0 

0 

3° 

0 

1  c 

12 

oti     T-TncrVi       Ha      I  ahaionPQ       in  tViiQ 
~ji,    J  1  u  L;  11      vie          ciiicii ^  licb      ill  1111.. 

13 

4 

11 

4 

2 

c 

27 

O 

0 

27 

O 

0 

IO 

0 

10 

0 

4 

0 

4 

0 

2 

6 

2 

6 

2 

0 

*7 

Q 

1 

0 

O           T  T                              T~)  _  1  „  1  

! 

O 

0 

13 

4 

6 

I 

IO 

0 

i 

10 

0 

1.1 

IO 

0 

12 

0 

0 

10 

0 

im.  Sh.,  for  the  fee  of  John  de  Bidon 

which   is  to  be  levied   [in  other 

6 

IO 

0 

2 

5 

0 

4 

5 

c 

n.  New  entry. 

*  I 

n  12 

tallies, 

3li- 

3s-  od- 

ROLL  40  :    viii  C 


SCUTA  GE  OF  KNIGHTS  WHO  HAVE 
NO  CAPITAL  HONOURS  IN  THESE 
SHIRES. 

i2n.  Sh.,  for  Ralf  de  Sumeri  of  the 

Honour  of  Gervase  Painell   

13H.  Sh.,  for  Advocate  of  Betton'   

1411.  Sh.,  for  Hen.  de  nouo  Mercato 
i«;n.  Sh.,  for  [Harao  de  Gironde]  ... 

i6n.  Sh.,  for  John  de  Builli   

iyn.  Sh.,  for  Honour  of  Peverell   

PERSONS  WHO  BECAUSE  WITH  THE 
KG.  IN  THE  ARMY  OF  NORMANDY 
HAVE  QUITTANCE  FROM  THE  KG. 

i8n.  a.  Earl  Clare 

b.  Aubrey   de  Ver 

c.  Walt,  de  Windr' 

d.  Hamo  s.  of  Hamo 

e.  Robt.    de  Alben' 

f.  Count  of  Aumale 

g.  Earl  Warenne 

h.  Gilbt.  Basset 

i.  Will  Maresc' 

k.  Will.  Maldut  cam. 
1.  Will,  de  Windr' 
m.  Will,  de  Alben' 
n.  Ctss.  [of  Warwick] 

ixA  PROMISES,  IIQO. 

7.  Ralf  Gibewin,  to  have  seisin  of 
4H.  land  in  Weuedon   

8.  Will,  de  Stodham  [as  in  36/ixA/8] 

9.  Jord.  Lenueise  [as  in  36/ixA/oJ... 
to.  Gilbt.    de    MaperteshaP     [as  in 

36/ixA/io]   

14.  Robt.  s.  of  Ralf  s.  of  Bernard  [as 

in  36/ixA/i4]  

23.  Walt,  de  Windr'  [as  in  37/ixA/23] 

a.f  by  sur-plus  on  his  account  for 

Cocham  and  Bray  co.  Berks.,  jli. 

4s.  $d.  no.  reckoned  to  him  for 
3  *  5bl 

ixB  OFFERINGS   THROUGH    THE  CHANCEL- 

LOR, ngi. 

1.  - Rog.  seruiens  de  Querendon,  ar- 

rears of  his  fine   

2.  Ric.  de  Pertehal'  for  the  same  fine 

5.  Ralf  Gibewin  [as  in  37/1XB/5]  ... 

6.  Robt.  s.  of  Robt.  dc  Albeneio  for 
his  relief   


to  ix  B  89 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 


910  9  10* 

11    o  41  0* 

10   o  10  0* 

200  2   0  0* 

140  140* 

4  16   o  4  16  0* 


o.  Earl  of  Chester 
p.  Hugh  Wach' 
q.  Geoff,  de  Say 
r.  Ranulf  de  Alberuill' 
s.  Bald,  de  Betton' 
t.  [Pet.]  de  Praels 
u.  Thos.  s.  of  Bern, 
v.  Will,  de  Brauose 
w.  Will,   de  Belmes 
x.  Robt.  de  Quen[ci] 
y.  Walt,  de  Treisli 
z.  Oliver  de  Aiencurt 
aa.  Will.  s.  of  Ralf 
de  Chahaignes 


300  300 

10    o   0  10   o  o 

400  13    4          3    6  ^ 

13   6   8  13   6  8 

16  13   4  16  13  4 

49    3    4  000        45  18  11 


8  13  10  8  13  10 

768  200  568 

200  200 

92    3    4  9  10   o        82  13  4 


u.  New   entry.  *  By  6  tallies, 

t  Entry  brought  up  from  below  by  Ed. 


90 


ROLL  40  :   ixC   to  x  A 


Due.  Paid.  BaU:  . 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.  s. 

tf.  C  OFFERINGS    BEFORE    W.  ARCHBISHOP 

OF  ROUEN,  1 193. 

2.  Hugh  de  Saleford  [as  in  39/ixC/2]      168  16' 

3.  Aubrey  de  Ver,  to  have  an  in- 
quisition of  the  land  which  was  of 
Walt,  de  Bolebech,  61i.  13s.  4d., 
but  he  is  summoned  in  [Oxon.  ?] 

4.  Will,  de  Clinton,  to  have  seisin 
of  his  land   of   Eston'   with  the 

Larderer  Serjeanty    368  368 

5.  Walt,  de  Stiueclea  [as  in  39/ixC/5]     500  5  0 
711.  Warin  s.  of  Robt.  to  have  Writ 

of  Right  as  to  a  Kt.'s  fee  in  Herd- 
dewich  Toulesland  and  Caldecota 

agst.  Steph.  Lancelin    200  20  - 

IX  D  NEW      OFFERINGS      THROUGH  THE 

ARCHBP.  OF  CANTERBURY. 

in.  Sim.  Basset,  to  have  the  land  of 
Ric.  de  Vernun,  which  he  had 
with  his  wife  and  is  the  inheri- 
tance of  Sim.'s  wife    66  13   4        50    o   o         16  13  4 

2n.  The  same  Sim.,  to  have  Record 
of  a  judgment  as  to  2  car.  of  land 
in  Scaldeford  agst,  the  Hospital- 
lers   2  13    4  2  13  4 

3n.  Ric.  Spigurnell  to  have  seisin  of 
36s.  of  land  in  the  vill  of  Boles- 
beria,  which  was  of  Will,  de  Wil- 
ton Serjeant  of  Ct.  John    6x3    4         368  3  65 

4n.  Sim.  de  Belcamp  for  leave  to  re- 
main in  England  away  from  the 

Army  of  Normandy    13    6    8        13    6  8 

$n.  Hen.  de  Pinkeigni,  for  the  same     500  5   0  0 

6n.  Thos.   de  Verdun,   to  have  the 

castle  and  lands  of  his  father  ...  200   o   0  200  o 

7n.  Sim.  de  Belcamp,  to  have  the 
land  which  is  called  la  Sela  de 
Bedeford    and     the    land  called 

Kingesmed  with  appurtenances  ...    13    6    8         6  13   4  6  13  < 

8n.  The  same  Sim.  to  have  the  Shires 
of  Bucks,  and  Beds.,  from  Michael- 
mas next  after  the  release  of  the 
Ld.  Kg.  from  Almain,  for  3  yrs. 

at  the  old  farm    133    6    8  133   6  w 

x  JUDAICA. 

x  ^  DEETS   OF  AARON  THE  JEW   OF  LIN- 

COLN,  1 191. 

t.  Will,  de  Tureuiir,  on  his  lands  of 

Linton  Fulebroc  and  Wilia    80   o    o  80   o  0 


n.  New  entry. 


xB 


ROLL   40  s   x  B  to  xui  X  91 

Due,  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 

2.  Will,  de  TureuiHa  cd  his  lands  cu 

Hameledon                                        634  634 

3.  Hen.  de  Clinton  by  charter ;  Will, 
de  ste.  Mere  Eglise  acknowledged 

that  lie  is  liable  lor  the  balance  ...     3  13   4  1  13    4  200 

4.  Earl  Simon  [as  in  37/XA/4]             50    o    o  50   o  o 

5.  Nich.  de  Traili,  by  charter               700  700 


OFFERINGS  THROUGH    THE  CHANCEL- 
LOR, Iigi. 

1.  Aaron  bro.  of  Leon  de  Dunstapl' 

[as  in  37/xB/i]    too  100 

2.  Mosse  s.  of  Mosse  [as  37/'xB/2]  ...100  1    o  o 

3.  Josce  s.  of  Mosse  [as  37/XE/3]  ...40  4  o 

xC  OFFERINGS  THROUGH  W.  ARCHBP.  OF 

ROUEN,  1 192. 

1.  Ursell  de  Gipeswich'  [and  others, 

as  in  38/xC/i]    33    i    8  33    i  8 

2.  Walder  de  Wicumba,  to  have  4m. 

of  Rog.  de  Hugenden5    6    8  6  8 

3.  Hugh  de  Girunda  [as  in  38/XC/3]     200  200 

xii  MANORS   AND  BOROUGHS  SEPARATELY 

SUMMONED, 
xii  A  BRILL* 

1,  2.  Will.  s.  of  Ric.  for  farm  of 
Bruhell  in  4th  and  5th  yrs.  [1192, 
1 1^3],  but  he  claims  that  4I1.  is 

overcharged   18    4    1  bl.  18    4    1  bL 

3.  Will.  9.  of  Ric.  for  the  same  farm    20   o   o  bL     000     14    5    2  bl. 

a.  to  Robt.  s.  of  Fulcher  of  Oxen:- 
ford,  j/i.  os.  lod. 

b.  to  Brethr.   of  Hosf.  of  With- 
sand,  jli.  no. 

[when  blanched  reckoned  as~\ 

5  14  10  bl. 

but  it  is  claimed  that  40s.  of  the 
balance  is  overcharged. 

Xiii  SPECIAL  ACCOUNTS  OF  ESCHEATS. 

(ESCHEATS  ON  SHERIFF'S  ROLL). 
Xlii  A  BUCKS.  AND  BEDS.,  II94. 

in.  Will.  Ruffus,  for  revenue  of  land 
of  Ric.  de  Baseuilla  in  Almodes- 

ham    10   o  10  0 

2n.  Will.  Ruffus  and  Will.  s.  of  Ric. 
for 

a.  sale  of  chattels  of  Pet.   s.  of 

Adam,  an  adherent  of  Ct.  John  ...    12    1  10        12    i  lOt 

b.  sale  of  crops  of  Eva  de  Broc  ...     3   6    8         3    6  8t 

c.  chattels  of  Robt.  de  Sa  -  -,  sold     700         7   0  Ot 


n.  New   entry.  t  By  3  tallies,  22U.  8s.  6d. 

Account  transferred  from  the  Sheriff's  Farm,  and  now  Allowed  on  it. 


92 


ROLL  40  :    r-ii  B,  xxll  C 


MEMBRANE  2d. 

Due.  Paid.  Balaam 

(escheats  on  escheat  roll).  li.    s.  d<        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  <! 

xiii  B         bucks.,  1194.    Account  of  Will,  de 
ste.  Meic  Eglise  : — 

in.  a.  Olnea,  of  the  Advocate  of  Bet- 
ton',  farm  for  i  yr   8    o    2         8    0  2§ 

b.  sale  of  crops  there   5    9    o  5    9  0§ 

c.  sale  of  oxen  there    2  12    o         2  12  0§ 

an.  Cattestorpe,  of  Ric.  de  BaseuiH', 

farm  for  I  yr  ,   10   o  10  0§ 

3n.  a.  Edulfesberga,  of  Ric.  de  Base- 

uilT,  farm  for  £  yr   211;         2    1  5§ 

b.  sale  of  crops  there   2  13    4  2  13  4§ 

411.  Edulfiberga,  of  Will.  Blundell 

511.  Eiton,  of  Eust.  de  Alneto 

farm  of  these  for  £  yr.,  together  ...     550  5    5  0§ 

6n.  Radenherst,  farm  for  }s  yr   500         5    0  0§ 

7n.  Suaneburn,  of  Robt.  de  Tenerche- 

brai,  farm  for  \  yi   2    1    o  2    1  0§ 

8n.  Lateburn,  of  Ric.    de  BaseuiH', 

rent  for  %  yr   6    8  6  8§ 

gn.  Mill  of  David  de  Ailesberia,  farm 

for  i  yr   1    q  1  9§ 

ion.  a.  Wendoura,  sale  of  hay    70  7  0§ 

b.  Wendoura,  sale  of  oxen    1    o   o         1    0  0§ 

1  in.  a.  Bledelawa,  of  Hugh  de  Gur- 

nay,  farm  for  \  yr   10  12    6        10  12  6§ 

b.  sale  of  wood  there    140         1    4  0§ 

i2n.  Westbiria,  of  Robt.  s.  of  Hugh 

de  Norh',  rent  for  £  yr   20  2  0§ 

i3n.  Torneberga,  sale  of  hay    50  5  0§ 

i4n.  Chattels  of  a  certain  runaway  in 

Edufesberga   20  2  0 

xiiiC        beds. ,  1194.    Account  of  Will,  de 
ste.  Mere  Eglise  : — 

in.  a.  Tudinton,  of  Ct.   de  Perche, 

farm  for  £  yr   386  3    8  6+ 

b.  sale  of  hay  there    180  1    8  Ot 

c.  sale  of  wood  there   10  15    o  10  15  Ot 

2n.  a.  Haiawald,    of    Ralf  Morin, 

farm  for  \  yr   321  3  2  It 

b.  sale  of  crops  there    3    6    8  3  6  8* 

c.  sale  of  wood  there    3    1    9  3  1  9t 

3n.  Neweton,  of  Ralf  Morin,  farm  for 

\  yr   6   8  6  8: 


n.  New   entry.  §  Bv  17  tallies,  47b.  10s. 

X  See  note  %  on  following  page. 


ROLL   40  :   xiii  G 


93 


Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    9.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 


411.  Wildon,  of  Robt.  de  sco.  Remigio, 
for  Michaelmas  term  2li.  us.,  re- 
mainder of  preceding  year  7s.  od.     2  18    q  2  18  9t 

t;n.  Henewich,  farm  for  £  yr.  [trans- 
ferred from  V/2]    20  2  Ot 

6n.  Fernedis,  the  hide  wh.  was  of 
Hatecrist,  £  yr.  [transferred  from 

V/6]    12   6  12  6: 

jn.  a.  Westlingewurda,        of  Ct. 

Aubrey,  farm  for  ^  yr   11    o  11  OX 

b.  sale  of  crops  there    6  13   4         6  13  kt 

c.  sale  of  oxen  there    15    o  15  QZ 

Sn.  a.  Hocton,  of  Hugh  de  Gurnay, 

farm  for  ±  yr   11  io   o       11  10  Ot 

b.  sale  of  hay  and  herbage  there     1    7  10         17  lOt 


n.  New  entry.  t  By  15  tallies,  4gli.  19s.  id. 


94  ROLL  41  :    i  to  ii  D 

ROLL  41:   7  RIC.  f  :  1195. 

MEMBRANE  15. 


! 


Due.  Paid.  Balarvc* 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  <i. 

1  FARM  OF  THE  SHIRES. 

Simon  de  Belchamp,  farm  of  the 

shires  for  the  past  year    14   o  o  n< 

The  same,  for  the  new  farm  of 

Bucks,  and  Beds   61    8    7  bl. 

The  same,  for  the  new  farm  of 

Bucks,  and  Beds   80   o,  10  no. 

ii  ALLOWANCES. 

ii  A     /.  Knights  [sic]  of  the  Temple  j  6  8 

2.  Brethr.  of  the  Hospital  of  With- 
sand    /  10  5 

iiC     /.  [See  4/fxiiA  /4a]. 

3.  John  Piedefer    /  10  5 

ii  D     /.  Monks  of  Woburn'  in  mill  of  Lech- 
ton*    1  12  o  no. 

2.  [See  41  \xiiA  /4b]. 

3.  Brethr.  of  Hospital  of  Witsand  in 
Luiicn'    200 

5.  Nuns   of  Fontevrault    in  Lecton* 

48  8  o  no. 

6.  The  same,  in  Radenecche  400  no. 

7.  The  same,  in  BrichelV  1  12  0  no. 

8.  Wiscard    Leideth     in     Hida  de 
Hulmo    /  10  o  no. 

0.  Heir  of  Rog,  le  follu trier,  in  the 

land  in  Aillesbir^  which  was  of  £ 
Ernis  reeve,  by  Kg.'s  writ  16  o 


>  i 


10.  Robt.  de  Cahov  in  Wandoure  and 
Eton  by  Kg.'s  writ    60  o  o  no. 

11.  Manor  of  Hocton  with  appur- 
tenances whereof  Will,  de  ste. 
Mere  Eglise  should  answer 
[xiiiE/8]    40  o  o  bl. 

12.  Baldwin  de  Betton'  in  Luiton 

80  o  o  bl. 

13.  Vill.  of  Bedejord,  account  rendered 
below  [Hi]    40  o  o  bl. 

14.  Manor  of  Bruhell,  for  which  Will, 
s.  of  Ric.  should  answer  as  the  Sh. 
say*  [xiiA  ]   20  o  o  bl. 

15.  Rader.eche  for  which  Will,  de  ste. 
Mere  Eglise  should  ans7t>er 
[xiiiDJO]    70  o  o  bl. 


1 


ROLL  <1  ;   ii  E  to  v 

Due. 
ii.    s.  d. 

5.  Works  at  Bcdsford  Gaol,  by  vjrii 
of  H.  Archbf>.  of  Canterbury  and 
on  view  of  Marchand  and  Balde. 
win    6  4 

The  same  works,  by  the  Kg.'s  writ 
and  on  view  of  the  same  men  3  j6  8 

jn.  Justice  and  judgments  done  for 
the  whole  yr  .    10  8 

at:d  he  owes 

FARM  OF  THE  BURGH. 

Burgesses  of  Bedford,  facm  of  the 

burgh   40   o  o 

a.  Thos  uenator,  At.  5s.  y\d. 
[when  blanched]      *  3  <f 

INCREMENT  AND  BALANCE. 

i,  2.  Oger  s.  of  Oger  for  the  incre- 
ment for  2\  yrs  

3.  6,  7,  8.  Will.  Ruffus  for  the  same, 
io£  yrs  

4.  Will.  s.  of  Ric.  de  Culeworde  for 
the  same   

5.  Osbt.  s.  of  Ric.  [as  36/1V/5]   

q.  Will.  Ruffus  for  the  same  in  the 
5th  yr.  of  the  Kg  

10.  Sh.,  for  a  half  year  past   

ix.  Will.  Ruffus  for  half  of  the  6th  yr. 

12.  Will.  Ruffus  for  the  old  farm  in 

the  4th  yr   40    7    2  no. 

Will.  Ruffus  for  the  old  farm  in  the 

5th  yr   5  17   9  no. 

These  stood  over  agst.  liberties 
and  quittances  till  the  Kg.  shall 
have  ordered  otherwise  [from 
40/oi] 

i3n.  Sh.,  for  the  increment  of  Bucks. 

this  yr   10   o  o 

PURPRESTURES  AND  ESCHEATS. 

1.  Sh.,  Half  Hund.  of  Stanbrigg  ...  200 

2.  [See  xiiiE/5] 

3.  Sh.,  for  land  of  Lanbricht    4  o 

4.  Will.  s.  of  Ric,  for  meadow  of 
Aclay,  for  past  year  8s.  4d.  and 

for  this  year  8s.  4d   [16  8] 


95 

Paid.  Balance. 
Ii.    s.  d.      Ii.    s.  d. 


17   o   2  no. 


37  16   8  bL 


10  hawks 

42  hawks 

29  hawks 
9  hawlcs 

4  hawks 
2  hawks 
2  hawks 

40    7    2  no. 

5179  no. 


10    0  0  4  hawks 

2   0  0 

4  0* 

0    0  0 


n.  New  entry. 


By  two  tallies,  5s. 


96  ROLL  41  :    v  to  vii  B 

Due.  Paid.  Balance 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      U.    s.  <i 

a.  by  works  on  the  Kg.'s  houses  of 
Bruhell\  by  the  King's  writ  [com- 
pare 4o/iiE/i5]    16  8 

"  See  the  account  of  the  same  Will, 
after  the  account  of  Warengeford, 
because  there  was  not  space  here." 

6.  [See  xiiiE/6] 

11.  Will.  s.  of  Ric,  increment  of 
Bruhell'  for  the  land  of  Will,  de 
la  Rochele  there,  last  yr.  2li.,  this 

yr.  2li   400  000 

a.  by  works  on  the  Kg.'s  houses 
at  BruhelV ,  by  Kg.*s  writ  [corn- 
fare  V fja  above]    400 

12.  Sh.,  for  land  which  was  of  Robt. 

le  Scot  in  Aillesbir'    50  5  0 

13.  Sh.,  farm  of  land  of  Will.  Pic- 

tauensis  in  Aillesber'    10  10* 

% 

21.  Sh.,  old  farm  of  Suaneburn,  but 
it  should  be  required  from  John 
Marescall'  who  then  had  charge  of 

Escheats,  as  Sh.  says    1    3    5  1    3  5 

22.  [See  xiiiD/7]. 

23n.  Will,  de  Bocland,  amercement  for 
default  of  6  days  in  wh.  he  did  not 
come  to  render  his  acct.  for  the 

co.  of  Cornwall    30   o   o         0    0  0 

a.  Pdn.  to  the  same  Will,  by  writ 
of  H.  Archbp.  of  Canterbury  by 
writ  of  the  Kg.  from  beyond  seas 

30  o  o 

VI  ARREARS. 

6.  Villate  of  Luiton  for  murder  [1185]     168  i    6  8 

9.  Jordan  clericus  of  Hameleden,  for  «* 
default  [1191]    33   6   8  33   6  8 

Vli  PLEAS  BEFORE  JUSTICES  IN  EYRE. 

vii  A    3.  Regin.  s.  of  Ernis,  for  withdrawal         20  2  0 

vii  B    2.  Godwin  brunus,  for  escape  of  Will.  18  1  8 

7.  Wife  of  Ansgot,  for  wardship  of 

his  s.  and  land    5  13    4  5  13  4 

tf.  Will.  s.  of  Geoff.,  for  disseisin  ...         30  3  0 

11.  Gundwin    de    Estcota  [as 

35/viiB/u]    34  3  4 

12.  Walt.  s.  of  Nich.,  for  false  claim         58  5  s 

15.  Fulk     de     Hugendene  [as 

35/viiB/i5]    200  10  1190 


n.  New  entry.  *  See  note  *  on  previous  page. 


ROLL   41  :   vii  C  to  vii  N 


97 


Due. 
li.    s.  d. 


vii  C    2.  Giles  de  Pinkeni,  for  waste    io  o 

4.  Sh.,  from  Hamo  de  Padebir'  for 

waste    10  o 

viiD    3.  Sh.,  for  Buechelawe    Hund.,  for 

murder    t;  1 

vii  E   Io.  Sh.,  for  frankpledges  of  Ailward 

de  Seinle,  for  estreated  pledge  1  6 

15.  Sh.,  for  Ric.   s.  of  Aldeua,  [as 

40/viiE/i.s]    6  8 

vii  F    8.  Ric.  s.  of  Aldeua,  for  false  claim  6  8 

14.  Robt.  [sic]  piscator,  for  the  same         6  8 

vii  G  22.  Urban    de    Herlingdon'    [as  in 

3S/viiG/22]    18  o 

vii  J    4.  Sh.,  for  small  items  of  the  Forest, 

Bucks.,  under  £  m   1    5  9 

vii  K    3.  Will.  Wischard  [as  in  37/VUK/3]  400 

9.  Sh.,  for  Rog.   de  Pirie,  for  not 

pursuing. his  appeal   2  8 

10  Sh.,  for  John  de  Curci,  for  the 

same    6  8 

vii  L    3-  Nich.  de  Bereuill',  for  withdrawal         2  o 

vii  M   I2-  Villate  of  Forde,   for   escape  of 

Rog   6  8 

a-  by  gifts  to  Breihr.  of  Hospital 
of  Jerusalem  by  liberty  of  KgSs 
charter    6  8 

r§.  Frankpledge  of  Turkill  de  Camel- 
ton'  [as  39/VHM/15]    6  8 

18.  Sh.,  for  Hamo  s.   of  Hamo  for 

disseisin    13  4 

20.  Sh.,  for  Ascer  de  Hadestoke,  for 
estreated  pledge    6  8 

21.  Sh.,  for  Walt,  prepositus  de  Hade- 
stoke, for  the  same    6  8 

23.  Sh.,  for  Walt.  Porteioie,  for  the 

same    6  8 

vii  N  10.  Will.  Basset  de  Draiton',  for  the 

same    6  8 

it.  Sh.,  for  Rich.  Belidene,  for  the 

same    6  8 

12.  Ralf  de  Burestroda,  for  the  same         6  8 

14.  Frankpledge  of  Will.    Coc,  for 

escape  of  Ailward    6  8 


Paid.  Balance, 
li.    s  d.       li.    s.  d. 

10  o 

10  Of 

5  It 

1  6t 

6  8t 

6  8 

10  58 
18  o 

1    5  9 
100  3  10  o 

2  8: 
6  8: 

I     O  I  o 

0   0  0 

3  4  3  4 
13  4§ 

6  8§ 
6  8§ 
6  8§ 

6  8 

6  6§ 

6  8 

20  48 


f  By  four  tallies,  23s.  3d.  t  By  two  tallies,  9s.  4d. 

§  By  five  tallies,  2li. 


98 


ROLL   41  .   vsii  A  to  !xD 


Due.               Paid.  Babn  , 
li.    s.  d.        Ii.    s.  d.      li.    5.  * 

viii  SCUTAGES. 

Viii  A  SCUTA GE  OF  WALES,  BEDS.,  IIOO. 

1.  Robt.  de  Albeneio   g   g    o  9  9  o 

2.  Simon  de  Beilo  Campo   xo   o   4       '  10  o  4 

3.  Simon  de  Wahella   15   o  15  {, 

viii  D  THE  SAME  IN  BUCKS. ,  z:*)0. 

1.  Will,  de  Windr'    4  to  10  4  10  10 

2.  Will.    Malduit   17    6  i7  t 

8.  Hamo.  s.  of  Hamo    400          100  300 

g.  Hen.  de  Pinkeigni  „«   6  15    o  6  15  0 

viii  C  SCUTAGE  OF  KNIGHTS  FOR  RANSOM  OF 

THE*  KING,   1 194. 

1.  Sim.   de  Bello  Campo    r«j  12    8        10   o   o  5  13  8 

2.  Hugh  de  Chaaignes    20  2  0 

3.  Walt,  de  WahelT    27   o   o  27   o  e 

7.  Will,  de  Scbiriton      130  130 

8.  Herbt.  de  Bolebec    6    8  6  S 

10.  Hen.  de  Pinkeigni    1  10   o  1  10  o 

11.  Sh.  for  scutage  of  John  de  Bidun, 

to  be  required  in  other  ccs   450  450 

ix  A        promises,  1 190. 

8.  Will,  de  Stodham  [as  in  4o/ixA/8]  10   o   o  10  o  * 

g.  Jordan  Lenueise  [as  in  36/ixA/9]  368  3   6  c 
10.  Gilbt.    de    Maperteshale    [as  in 

36/ixA/io]    13   6   8  13   6  8 

14.  Robt.  s.  of  Ralf  s.  of  Bernard  [as 

in  36/ixA/i4]    16  13   4  t6  13  * 


23.  Walt,  de  Windr'  [as  in  37/ ix  A/23]    4.5  '8  "  600         39  18  11 

IX  B  OFFERINGS   THROUGH   THE  CHANCEL- 

LOR, 1191. 

1.  Rog.  serniens  de  Querendon,  ar- 

rear  of  his  fine    8  13  io  13   4  8   o  f 

2.  Ric.  de  Pertenhale.  for  his  fine  ...     568         400  1    6  4 

6.  Robt.  s.  of  Robt.  de  Albeneio,  for 

his  relief    82  13    4  82  13  4 

ix  C  OFFERINGS    BEFORE    W.    ARCHBP.  OF 

ROUEN,  1 1 93. 

5.  Walt,  de  Stiueclea  [as  39/ixC/d     500         168  3  13  4 

7.  Warin  s.  of  Robt.  [as  in  4o/ixC/7]      200  20° 

ixD  OFFERINGS    BEFOKE    H.    ARCH  nr.  OF 

CANTERBURY,  II04. 

1.  Simon  Basset  [as  in  40/ixD/i]  ...  16  13    4  10    o   o          6  13  * 

2.  Simon  Basset  [as  in  4o/ixD/2]  ...  2  13    4  2  13  4 

3.  Ric.   Spigurnel  [as  in  40/1XD/3]  3    6    S  1    6    S  20° 
Hen.  Pinckeigni  [as  in  40/ixD/;1  (500  5    0  0 


ROLL  41  :   ix  D,   >x  E 


99 


Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 

6.  Thos.  de  Verdun  [as  in  4o/ixD/6, 

in  two  instalments]                         200    o   o  200    0  0 

7.  Simon    de    Bello    Campo   [as  in 

4o/ixD/7]    6  13   4  6  13  4 

8.  Simon  de  Bello  Campo  [133H.  6s. 
8d.,  as  in  4o/ixD/8,  accounted  in 
41/ixE/io] 

FINIS    MADE   AFTER  THE   RETURN  OF 
THE  KG.  FROM  ALMAIN. 

in.  Herbert  clericus,  for  ward  of  the 
land  of  David  de  Ailesbiri  and  of 

the  heir  till  of  age    13    4  13  4 

2n.  Robt.  Malduit,  fine  for  all  the 
land  and  right  of  his  f.,  and  to 
have  ward  of  the  castle  of  Rokinge- 
ham  so  long  as  shall  please  the 

Kg   66  13   4        33    6   8        33   6  8 

3n.  Regin.  s.  of  Ascur,  for  Right  of 

a  £  kt.'s  fee  agst.  Ric.  de  Warenn'     100  100 

4n.  Ric.  de  Baseuill',  for  81i.  of  land, 

because  he  was  with  Count  John    26  13    4  6  13    4         20   o  o 

«;n.  Sim.  de  Bello  Campo,  that  he 
might  not  cross  in  the  last  Army 
of  Normandy,  and  that  he  may  be 

quit  of  scutage  for  44  kts   66  13   4  66  13  4 

6n.  Robt.  de  sancto  Remigio,  for  fine 

of  his  land  wcrth  jli   13    6    8  13    6  8 

7n.  John  de  Builli,  to  be  quit  of  scut- 
age for  2\  kts..,  and  that  ho  may 
not  cross  in  the  second  Army  of 

Normandy    6  13   4  6  13  4 

8n.  Robt.  de  Hersin,  to  have  Right 
of  a  fee  of  \\  kts.  in  Wengraue  and 
Rullesham  agst.  Robt.  de  Pinkeini, 

by  pledge  of  Hugh  de  Hersin    500  500 

on.  Herbt.  de  Bolebec,  because  he 
did  not  cross  in  the  Kg.'s  service 
in  the  second  Army  of  Normandy, 

and  for  scutage  of  1  kt   168  168 

ion.  Sim.  de  Bello  Campo,  to  have  the 
shires  of  Bucks,  and  Beds,  from 
Michaelmas  next  after  the  return 
of  the  Kg.  from  the  Almainers,  for 
3  yrs.  at  the  old  farm  [transferred 

from  ixD/S]    133    6    8         0    0  0 

a.  to  Thos.  Basset,  fd.  by  Thos. 
to  the   King   by   the   Kg.'s  writ 
133  6  8 


n.  New  entry. 


ROLL  41  :    ix  E   to   x  C 


Due.  Paid.  Bah 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.  s 

I  in.  Hugh  Peuerelli,  that  there  may 
be  enrolled  ou  the  Great  Roll  the 
fine  made  between  him  and  Lucia 
de  Kokefeld'  and  Hen.  de  Clinton 
of  I  kt.'s  fee  in  Swaneburne,  "  but 
he  renders  account  thereof  in  the 
Roll  for  Cambs.  because  there  was 

not  space  here."  [See  xivA]    6    8  6 

i2n.  Hugh  de  Alnou,  for  enrolment 
that  Vsaac  son  of  Bonenfant  de 
Bedeford,  a  Jew,  acknowledged  be- 
fore the  Barons  of  the  Exchequer 
that  Hugh  and  his  father  are  quit 
to  him  and  his  heirs  for  all  which 
they  formerly  owed  him,  for  24  m. 
which  Hugh  will  render  to  him 

by  charter    6    8  6 

JUDATCA. 

DEBTS   OK  AARON  THE   JEW   OF  LIN- 
COLN, IIQI. 

1.  Will,  de  Tureuilla,  on  his  lands  of 

Linton  Fulebroc  and  VVili    80   o   o  80  o 

2.  Will,  de  Tureuilla  on  his  lands  of 

Hameldon'    634  63 

3.  Hen.  de  Clinton,  by  charter;  Will, 
de  ste.  Mere  Eglise  acknowledges 

that  he  is  liable    200  20 

4.  Earl  Simon  [as  in  37/XA/4]    50   o   o  50  o 

OFFERINGS  THROUGH    THE  CHANCEL- 
LOR, IIQI. 

1.  Aaron  bro.  of  Leon  de  Dunstapl' 

[as  in  37/xB/i]    100  10 

2.  Mosse  s.  of  Mosse  [as  37/XB/2]  ...100  10 

3.  Josce  s.  of  Mosse  [as  37/XB/3]  ...40  4 

OFFERINGS  THROUGH  W.  ARCHBP.  OF 
ROUEN,  1 192. 

1.  Ursell  de  Gipeswic',  Ysaac  de 
Bedeford  and  Seignured  de  sco. 

Edmundo  [as  in  38/xC/i]    33    1    8  33  1 

2.  Walder  of  Wicumba,  to  have  4m. 

of  Rog.  de  Hugenden    6    8  6 

3.  Hugh  de  Girunda  [as  in  38/XC/3]     200  20 


ROLL   43  :    six  A  to  xin  D 


101 


MEMBRANE   1  DORSO. 

Due. 
ii.    s.  d. 

xii  MANORS  SEPARATELY  SUMMONED. 

jrji  A        brill  :  "  because    there;    was  not 
space  for  it  in  Ducks.'1 

Will.  s.  of  Ric.  accounts  as  under 
for  Bryhell : 

1.  2.  Farm  for  the  4th  and  5th  yrs., 
but  he  claims  that  4H.  is  over- 
charged    18    4    >  bl. 

3.  The  same  for  last  yrar,   but  he 

claims  that  211.  is  overcharged  ...    14    5    2  bl. 
a.  surplus    allowed    from    xiiA  1 4 
below    ,   6  10  o  bl. 

4.  The  same  for  this  year  in  Bruhell'    20    o    o  bl. 

a.  Robt.  s.  of  Fulcher  of  Oxene- 
ford  [from  HC/ /]    j  o  10 

b.  Brethr.  of  Hospital  of  Witsand 
[from  HD/2]    5  o  o  no. 

c.  Work  on  the  Kg.ys  houses  in 
Bruhell,  by  the  KgSs  writ  and  on 
view  of  Rog.  Trauers  and  Soviann 
frepositus   12  2  1 

[sum  18H.  2S.  1  id.,  when 

blanched]    17    4    9  bl. 

[allowance     credited  to 

Will.]    jo  14    o  bl. 

Surplus  (xiiA/3a)  ...     6  10   o  bl. 

Xiii  SPECIAL   ACCOUNTS   OF  ESCHEATS. 

MEMBRANE  4. 

ESCHEATS   ON   ESCHEAT  ROIL. 

xiii  D        bucks.  ,  1 195.    Account  of  Will,  de 
ste.  Mere  Eglise  : — 

2.  Catestrop,  wh.  was  of  Ric.  de 
BaseuilP    10  o 

3.  Edulfesberga,   of   the  same  Ric, 

farm  for  \  yr   260 

4.  Edulfesberga,  land  of  Will.  Blun- 

dus,  this  year,  without  stocking  ...  400 
a.  in  stocking  this  manor t  for  6 
oxen  24s.,  1  affer  4s.,  a  cows  8s., 
8  sheef  4s.,  by  roy,  writ  ...200 

6.  Radenhurst,  assessed  rent  [trans- 
ferred from  iiD/15]    10    o  o 

7.  Suaneburne,  of  Robt.  de  Tenerche- 

brai,  farm  [transferred  from  V/22]  42c 

8.  Ledeburn,  land  of  Ric.  de  Base- 
uilP, rent    6  8 


Paid, 
li.    s.  d. 


Balance, 
li.    s.  d. 


18  4  1  bl. 
7  15    2  bl. 


9   5  3  bl. 


10  0* 

2   6  0* 

2   0  0 

10   0  0 

4   2  0 

6  8* 


*  f}y  3  tallies,  3I1.  2s.  Sd 


102  ROLL  41  :    xiii  D,   xiii  E 

Due.  Paid.  Balaoo 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    a.  4 

11.  Bledelawe  of  Hugh    de  Gurnai, 
farm  without  stocking    16    o    o  8    0  0 

c.  in  slocking  this  manor,  for  24 
oxen  4U.  16s.,  6  cows  and  a  bull 
ili.  8s.,  2  affers  8s.,  10  sows  and  a 
boar  us.,  34  sheep  ijs  800 

12.  Westbiria,  of  Robt.  s.  of  Hugh  de 
Norh',  rent  for  £  yr.   26  2  6 

13.  Torneberia,    wh.     was    of  Ralf 
Morin,  assessed  rent    30  3  0 

15m  Bladelawe,   Robt.    de  Turri  for 

Relief  of  his  land  there    20  2  0 

i6n.  Land  of  Thos.  de  sancto  Walerico, 

without  stocking    2  13   4         17  4 

a.  in    stocking    this    land,   for  4 

oxen  lbs.,  for  10  sows  10s.  ...  160 
i7n.  Eston,  which   was  of  Will,  de 

Clinton,    assessed    rent  without 

stocking   

a.  in  stocking  this  manor,  for  16 

oxen  3U.  4s.,  4  cows  16s.,  4  swine 

4s.,  100  sheef  sli.  10s   6140 

iSn.  Eston,  crops  sold  from  the  same 
iQn.  Vuinges,  wh.   was  of  Robt.  de 

Cotes,  farm   

2on.  Wyli,  wh.  was  of  Rog.  de  Sale- 
ford,  \  yr  

a.  out  of  the  surplus   of  50s.  in 

Will.' S  account  of  Peri    13  o 

2 in.  Chattels  of  Ric.  Ded,  a  runaway        12   o  12  0 

xiii  E        beds.,  1 1 Q5*    Account  of  Will,  de 
ste.  Mere  Eglise  : — 

2.  Harewald,  of  Ralf  Morin   

d.  in  stocking  this  manor,  for  16 
oxen  jli.  4s,  1  cow  4$  3  8  o 

3.  Neweton,  of  the  same  Ralf    '  J'M  ? 

4.  Wildon',  wh.  wa3  of  Robt.  de  sco. 

Remigio   

a.  Fixed  Alms  to  the  Anchoress  of 
Wildon    6 

5.  Hennewic,  farm  [transferred  from 

V/2]   

6.  Fernedis,  the  hide  wh.  was  of 
Hatecrist  [transferred   from  V/6] 

7.  Westlingewrth,  farm   

d.  in  stocking  this  manor,  for  75 
oxen    3  o  o 

8.  Hocton,  of  Hugh  de  Gurnai,  farm 
c.  in  stocking  this  manor,  for  40 
oxen  Sli.,  2  affers  8s.,  10  cows  and 
a  bull  2li.  4s.,  5  sows  and  a  boar 

6s.,  140  shcei>  3U.  10s   14  8  o 

From  now  Will,  must  answer  for 
40U.  bl. 


12 

7 

0 

5  13 

0 

2 

13 

4 

2  13 

4 

I 

16 

0 

1  16 

0 

»3 

0 

0  0 

0 

12 

0 

12 

0 

6 

4 

2 

2  16 

2 

4 

13 

4 

7 

*3 

0 

7  12 

6 

4 

0 

4 

ot 

1 

% 

0 

1  5 

Of 

5 

6 

8 

2  6 

8 

25 

0 

0 

10  12 

0 

d.  New  entry. 


f  By  2  tallies,  ili.  9s. 


ROLL   41  :    xiii  F   to  xiv  A 


103 


xiii  G 


Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

on.  Rauenesden,  land  wh.  was  of  Ralf 

Morin                                                    74  7  4 

ion.  Chattels  of  Ric.  de  Dunestapel,  a 

runaway                                               19  19 

MEMBRANE  5  DORSO. 
xiii  F        bucks,  and  beds.,  1195.  Account 
of  Will,   de  ste.   Mere  Eglise  for 
arrears  of  escheats  of  a  past  half 
year  [?  1194]. 

Wendoure,   perquisites    170          4    7  0* 

Olneia,  perquisites  and  herbage  ...  1  13    4          1  i3  4* 

Svaneburne,  perquisites    6    8              6  8* 

Eduluesbiri,   perquisites    10   o             10  0* 

Bledelawe,  perquisites    100  100* 

Hocton,  perquisites    10   o             10  Of 

Tudingedon,   perquisites    140          1    4  Ot 

Wrestlingewurde,  orchard  and  per- 
quisites   50             5  Of 

Harewald  perquisites  and  hay  sold  15    o             15  Ot 

Wilden',  perquisites    106          1    0  6t 

BUCKS.  AND  BEDS.,  IIQ5.  Account  of 

Will,  de  ste.  Mere  Eglise  for  ar- 
rears of  escheats  in  this  year. 
Radeneche,  perquisites  ...     14  o 
Eduluesbiri,  perquisites  ...       8  o 

Eston,   perquisites    1    6  8 

Harewald,  perquisites    ...     10  o 

Wrastlingewurde    -   -  - 

Sum,  4I1.  8s.  8d.  4   8   8         4   6  S£ 

XIV  ENROLMENTS,   COMBUSTIONS,  ETC. 

MEMBRANE  9  DORSO. 
[Referred  from  ixA/24  to  Cambs.  Roll  :  abstract  only.] 
x*v  A        enrolment  that  Hugh  Peuerell  and  Lucy  de  Kokefeld  quitclaimed  to 
Hen.  de  Clinton  J  kt.'s  fee  in  Suaneburn,  for  which  Hen.  granted  to 
them  eight  score  acres  of  arable  land  in  Stiueleia  from  his  demesne; 
[in  the  list  of  these  occur  the  following  field-names] 

Suhelle,  Eya,  Selkeswell,  Twelfacres,  Enidemore,  Brecche  (Breche), 
Ramekoteshull,  Laurkeshull,  Longedene,  Quechputeslod',  Estwell,  Pan- 
tescroft,  Tidboldeston',  Wathull,  Grenewei,  Ehitemanne  lond.  Lutres- 
more,  Cherchefurlang,  Smaltem',  Hurdeland,  Stanbul,  Estruhul,  Rin- 
hull  botes. 

He  further  gave  lands  in  connection  with  which  are  named  the  follow- 
ing people  in  villanage  : — Sahet,  Robt.  de  Holdeene,  Will.  s.  of  Baldwin, 
Anketil  s.  of  Will.,  Ingelram  s.  of  Toki,  Robt.  s.  of  Gocelin  (Honour 
of  Bristowe),  Turgis  s.  of  Patric,  Hen.  s.  of  Saher,  Ralf  s.  of  Godwin, 
Alice  w.  of  faber,  Eggelief,  Rog.  s.  of  Ric,  Osmund  (Honour  of  Walinge- 
ford),  Will,  de  Keleshull  (in  Cherlland) — and  a  free  tenant,  Gocelin  s. 
of  Hen. 

He  gave  also  a  moiety  of  the  meadow  Aldemade,  and  of  common  of 
pasture  in  Stiuelay.  And  Lucv  with  the  consent  of  Hen.  granted  the 
above  lands  to  Hugh,  to  be  held  for  *  fee;  and  further  Lucy  and  Hugh 
gave  to  Henry  12  marks  of  silver,  and  three  marks  to  buy  a  palfrey. 

n.  New  entry.  *  By  5  tallies,  4H.  17s. 

t  By  s  tallies,  4li.  %  By  ?  6  tallies,  4li.  8s.  8d. 


104 


ROLL  42; 


to  il  L> 


ROLL  42:   8  RIC.  I:  1196. 

MEMBRANES  15,  AMD  15  DORSO. 


11 

ii  A 


iiC 
iiD 


Due 
li.    s.  d. 


Paid, 
li.    s.  d. 


Balance 
li.    s.  d 


FAKM  OF  THE  SHIRES. 

Simon  dc  Bello  Campo-  farm  cf  the 
Shires. 

a.  for  the  past  year  ...  ij   o   z  no. 

b.  for  half  of  the  6th 

year   t4   o  ono. 

 3I 

[sum   3T    o  2  no.] 

{and  the  balance  remains  on  the 
lands  of  the  kts.  of  Sim.  de 
Wahelle  for  the  past  year  and  a 
half  } 

c.  for  the  new  farm   

»j  >>       )>   •  

ALLOWANCES. 

Knights  of  the  Temple    i  6  8 

Brethr.  of  Hospital  of  Witsand 

I  10  $ 

John  Piedefer    /  jo  5 

Monks  of  Woburn,  in  Mill  of  Lee- 
ton'    /  22  o  no. 

[See  xiiA/5b]. 

Brethren  of  Hosfital  of  Witsand, 
in  Luitori>    ....  2  o  o 

Nuns  of  Fontevrault  in  Lectorf 

48  8  o  no. 

The  same  in  Radeneche  400  no. 

The  same  in  Brichilla  1  12  o  no. 

Wiscard  Leidet  in  Hida  de  Hulmo 
1  10  o  no. 

Heir  of  Rog.  le  fclluirier  in  Ailes- 
bir'  [as  35 1 HD Iq]    16  o 

Robt  de  Cayho  in  W endoure  and 
Eaton    60  o  o  no. 

Hugh  de  Gur nay  in  viil  of  Hoc- 
ton1  paid  by  the  hand  of  Will,  de 
Ste.  Mere  Eglise  by  -writ  of 
Archbp.  of  Cant.t  by  writ  of  the 
Kg.  from  overseas    40  o  o  bl. 

Baldw.  de  Be/ton\  in  Luiton 

80  o  0  bl. 

Vill  of  Bedefordy  accounted  below 
40  o  o  bl. 


2  no.    23  17    5  no.  729* 


60  16  o  bl. 
25  12  11  no. 


*  Carried  to  43 /i  v./ 17 


ROLL  42 


D   to  iv 


105 


Due. 


Ii.    s.  d. 


Paid, 
li.    s.  d. 


ii  D   14-  Manor  of  Bruhella,  Will.  s.  of  Ric. 

answers  for  this  as  the  Sh.  says 
[xiiA]    20  o  o  bl. 

i$.  Radenache,  Will,  de  Ste.  Mere 
Eglise  answers  for  this  in  Escheat 
Roll  [xiiiH/6]    10  o  obi. 

16.  Rog.  de  sanclo  Manueo,  in  the 
land  which  was  of  Robt.  Lescot  in 
Aillesbir1  for  2  yrs.  by  KgSs  writ 
for  wh.  Rog.  is  to  answer  by  10s. 

yearly     ..   /  o  o 

ii  li  4-  Re-pairs  of  Gaol  of  Ailesbir\  by 
roy.  writ    7^  6 

/on.  To   farmers   of  Hocton   26   q  "j\ 

/in.  To  farmers  of  Bledelawe  /2  4  10 
for  their  costs  in  tilling  the  de- 
mesnes of  the  said  vills  which  were 
of  Hugh  de  Gurnay,  by  writ  of 
Archbf.  of  Cant.,  by  roy.  writ  from 
overseas. 

[Sh.  owes  and  pays]  40  ; 

and  he  is  quit  [on  the  current 
farm] 

lii  FARM  OF  THE  LTRGH. 

Burgesses  of  Bedford,  farm  of  the 
Burgh    40 

a.  to  Thos.  uenator  2H.  5s.  f\d. 
[blanched]    2  3  4  bl. 

iv  INCREMENT  AND  BALANCE. 

i,  2.  Oger  s.  of  Oger  [as  in  37/iv/i, 
2]  10  hawks,  to  be  demanded  in 
Essex. 

3,  6,  7,  S,  Will.  Ruffus  for  io\  yrs. 
42  hawks,  to  be  demanded  in 
Cambs. 

4.  Will,  s  of  Ric.  de  Culeworde  [as 
36/1V/4]   

5*.  Osbt.  s.  of  Ric.  [as  36/^/5]   

q.  Will.   Ruffus    for    the    5th    yr.  4 
hawks,  to  be  demanded  in  Cambs. 
ro.  Sh.,  for  a  past  half  yr  

11.  Will.  Ruffus,  for  half  the  6th  yr. 
2  hawks,  to  be  demanded  in 
Cambs. 

12.  Will.  Ruffus,  old  Farm  of  the 
Shires  [as  41/iv/iiJ,  to  be  re- 
quired in  Cambs. 

for  the  4th  yr   40 

for  the  $th  yr   5  ) 

13.  Sh.  for  the  past  yr  

14m  Sh.  for  this  vear    10 


Balance, 
li.    s.  d. 


8  11  bl.    40  i&  11  bl. 


o   o  bl.    37  16    8  bl. 


29  hawks 
q  hawks 


2  hawks 


2  no. 
9  no. 


10    0  0 


7  2  no. 
7  0  no. 
4  hawks 
4  hawks 


n.  New  entry. 


106  ROLL   42  :    v   to   vn  N 


V  PURPRESTHKES  Ari>  ESCHEATS. 

1.  Sh.,  half  Hund.  of  Stanbrigge  ... 

2.  [See  xiiij/c] 

3.  Sh.,  for  land  of  L?»nbricht   

4.  Will.  s.  of  Ric.,  for  meadow  of 
Achelay   

6.  [See  xiiiJ/6] 

11.  The  same  Will.,  increment  of 
Bruhell'  for  land  of  Will,  de 
Rochele    

12.  Rog.  de  sco.  Manueo,  for  land 
which  was  of    Robt.    Lescot  in 

Ailesbir'   ,  

a.  to  Rog.  himself,  fdn.  by  roy. 
writ   5  o 

13.  Sh.,  farm  of  land  of  Will.  Pict' 
in  Ailesberia   

2i.  Sh.,  old  farm  of  Swaneburn,  to  be 
demanded  of  Will.  Maresc'  heir 
of  John  Maresc'  who  had  custody 
of  escheats,  as  Sh.  says   

vi  ARREARS. 

6.  Villate    of    Luiton,    for  murder 
[»8S]   

9.  Jordan  clericus  de  Hamelden,  for 
default   [  1 191 J   

vii  PLEAS  BEFORE  JUSTICES  IN  EYRE. 

vii  B    2-  Godwin  brunus,  for  escape  of  Will. 

7.  Wife  of  Angot,  for  wardship  of 
his  s.  and  land   

9.  Will.  s.  of  Geoff.,  for  disseisin  ... 

11.  Gundwin     de      Escota  [as 
35/viiB/ii]   

12.  Walt.  s.  of  Nich.,  for  false  claim 
15.  Fulk  de  Hugeden  [as  35/viiB/i5] 

vii  C    2.  Giles  de  Pinkeigni,  for  waste   

vii  F     8.  Ric.  s.  of  Aldeua,  for  false  claim 

14.  Robt.  piscator,  for  false  claim  ... 
vii  G  22.  Urban     de     Herlingdon'  [as 

35/viiG/22]   

vii  J  4-  Sh.,  for  small  matters  of  the  Forest 
below  £  m  

viiK    3-  Will.  Wischard  [as  tffvifttfy)  ... 

vii  L    3-  ^ich.  de  Bereuih",  for  withdrawal 

vii  M  lS-  Frankpledge  of  Turkill  de  Camel- 
ton'  [as  3o/viiM/i5]   

viiN  10.  Will.  Basset  of  Draiton,  for  es- 
treated pledge   

12.  Ralf  de  Burestrod,  for  the  same 
14.  Frankpledge  of   Will.     Coc,  for 

flight  of  Ailward    4 

*  By  2  tallies,  5s. 


Due. 

Paid. 

Balar.tr 

li.  s. 

d. 

ii.    s.  d. 

li.    1  I 

2  0 

0 

2   0  0 

4 

0 

4  0* 

3 

4 

S  4 

2  0 

2O0 

10 

O 

5  0 

1 

O 

1  0* 

1  3 

5 

*   3  5 

1  6 

8 

1   6  S 

33  6 

8 

33  6  8 

1 

8 

1  s 

4 

«>  »3  « 

3 

0 

3  0 

3 

4 

3  « 

.S 

8 

5  § 

1  19 

0 

8  4 

1  10 

10 

0 

10  a 

6 

8 

6  ? 

c 

.  > 

8 

5  1 

18 

0 

18  c 

1  .S 

9 

1    5.  9 

3  10 

0 

9  8 

3   0  * 

1 

0 

1  c 

3 

4 

3  * 

6 

8 

6  1 

6 

8 

6  4 

ROLL   42:   viiO/1-24  107 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

NEW  AMERCEMENTS  BY  SIM.  DE 
PATESHILL',  OGER  S.  OF  OGER,  HENR. 
DE  CASTEILLUN,  AND  THEIR  FELLOWS. 


Ili.    OH. j   llCUIl   JJublCUtlgc  HUIlUi.,  iur 

murder 

1  6 

s 

6 

g 

1  0 

0 

•»n                from    tVip    titViincr  r\f  Tf\c  Hp> 

All.     Uii>  j     XI  Will      LUC      LI  dill-lei     K.J L     1\  i  \-  .  Lll> 

Helnewerch,  for  escape  of  Robt.  a 

6 

8 

4 

0 

2 

8 

30.  Sh.,  for  chattels  of  Baldewin  de 

4 

0 

2 

0 

2 

0 

411.  Sh.,  from  tithing  of  Will.  Wit- 

ting,   for    escape    of    Elfwin  de 

Mureir   

6 

8 

6 

0 

8 

5n.  Will,  le  Peitevin,  for  estreated 

6 

8 

3 

4 

3 

4 

6n.  Rob.  de  Greinuill',  for  the  same 

6 

8 

3 

4 

3 

4 

yn.  Sh.,  from  tithing  of  Will.  Car- 

bonar',  for  escape  of  Will.  Longus 

6 

8 

1 

9 

4 

1 1 

8n.  Sh.,  from  Burneham  Hundr.,  for 

1  0 

0 

6 

8 

13 

4 

on.  Sh.,  from  tithing  of  Rob.  de  la 
Hull',  for   escape  of  Rog.   s.  of 


Robt  

6 

8 

4 

0 

2 

8 

ion.  Sh.,  from  Erie  Hundr.,  for  mur- 

1  0 

0 

3 

0 

0 

un.  Sh.,  from  Hundr.  of  Stokes,  for 

1  0 

0 

13 

0 

7 

0 

I2n.  John  de  Wilies,  for  false  present- 

*3 

4 

2 

0 

11 

4 

i3n.  Will,   de  Louente,  for  the  same 

13 

4 

6 

8 

6 

8 

i4n.  Rob.  de  Wokenton,  for  the  same 

6 

8 

3 

4 

3 

4 

1.511.  Villate  of  Neuport,  for  the  same 

1  0 

0 

11 

0 

9 

0 

i6n.  Ralf  MarescalT,  for  default   

6 

8 

5 

0 

8 

I7n.  Sh.,  from  Bunestow  Hundr.,  for 

1  0 

0 

10 

0 

10 

0 

i8n.  Walt,  del  Hurst,  for  withdrawal 

6 

8 

4 

0 

2 

8 

ign.  Sh.,  from  Mulesho  Hundr.,  for 

1  0 

0 

10 

0 

10 

0 

2on.  Walt.  s.  of  Turstin,  for  disseisin 

6 

8 

1 

0 

5 

8 

2in.  Walt.  s.  of  Will.,  for  the  same  ... 

13 

4 

6 

8 

6 

8 

22n.  Sh.,  from  half  Hundr.  of  Buke- 

10 

0 

3 

0 

7 

0 

23n.  Sh.,  from  Mannesheued  Hundr., 

1  0 

0 

10 

0 

10 

0 

24n.  Ric.  de  Eueresholt,  for  conceal- 
ment   

6 

8 

3 

4 

3 

4 

n.  New  entry. 


108  ROLL  42  :    vii  0/25-46 

Due.  Paid.  Balaoc* 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  ; 

vii  O  2«;n.  Sh.,  from  Clifton  Hundr.,  for  the 


1  0 

0 

11 

0 

9 

0 

2611.  Sh.,   from  Bikeleswada  Hundr., 

1  0 

0 

9 

0 

11 

0 

27a.  Sh.,  from   Wichstanes'  Hundr., 

1  0 

0 

11 

0 

9 

0 

2Sn.  Villate  of   Pullokeshull',   for  es- 

10 

0 

8 

0 

2 

0 

2911.  Sh.,  from  Stoddene  Hundr.,  for 

1  0 

0 

9 

0 

11 

0 

3on.  Kali  de  lieuill,  for  disseisin  ... 

O 

0 

5 

3 

4 

3 

4 

3m.  Hugh  s.  of  Pet.  de  Kemeston,  for 

6 

8 

6 

8 

32n.  Sh.,  for  amercements  of  men  and 
vills,  whose  names  and  debts  and 
the  causes  of  their  debts  are  noted 
in  the  Roll  of  the  aforesaid  persons 
who  have  paid  into  the  Treasury 

13  16 

8 

13  16 

8* 

33n.  Tithing    of    Rob.     Blundus  of 
Wicumb',  for  escape  of  Ralf  Tere- 
god   

6 

8 

6 

8 

34n.  Tithing  of  Aluric  Bai,  for  escape 
of  Rob.  s.  of  Estieue   

6 

8 

6 

S 

35n.  Salomon  mercator   de  Wicumb', 
for  default   

6 

8 

6 

S 

36n.  Tithing  of  Ralf  s.  of  Will.,  for 
escape  of  Hamo  de  Haltou' 

6 

8 

6 

s 

37n.  Sh.,    for    chattels   of    the  same 
Hamo    a  runaway   

S 

0 

8 

0 

38n.  Villate  of   Isenhamstede,  for  es- 
cape of  Godefr.   and  John  Huni- 
fang   

10 

0 

10 

0 

39n.  Sh.,  for  chattels  of  Rob.  le  Tan', 

a  runaway   

8 

8 

4on.  Tithing  of  Ric.  de  sco.  Egidio, 

6 

8 

6 

4m.  Sh.,   for   chattels  of   Turbert  a 

6 

0 

6 

0 

42n.  Sh.,   for  chattels   of    Simon,  a 

% 

4 

13 

4^n.  Villate  of  Heddesore,  for  escape 
of  Rich.  Dulch   

6 

8 

6 

§ 

44n.  Villate  of  Crceudon,  for  harbour- 
ing Miles  Morel  a  runaway   

h 

4 

13 

4 

45m  Sh.,  for  escape  of  the  same  Miles 

3 

0 

3 

0 

46n.  Tithing  of   Thos.    Pese,   for  es- 
cape of  Bald,  de  Claibroc   

6 

S 

6 

5 

n.  New  entry.  *  By  34  tallies. 


ROLL   42  :    vil  G/47— 71  109 


Due 

Paid.  Balance 

iL  s. 

d. 

if;     S.  d.  it. 

s. 

d 

Tii  O  47n-  Tithing  of  Pet.  de  Litlecote,  for 

O 

0 
0 

O 

Q 
O 

4Sn.  Sh.,  for  chattels  of  Robt.  Deth  a 

12 

0 

12 

O 

4Qti.  Sh.,  for  chattels  of  Herebert  de 

7 

0 

7 

O 

5011.  Tithing  of  Edric  de.  Upton',  for 

O 

0 
0 

0 

O 
O 

5 in.  Tithing  of  Hemming-  de  Slo,  for 

6 

8 

gr 
D 

0 
0 

52n.  Sh.,  for  chattels  of  the  same  Walt. 

7 

I 

5 

7 

53D.  Villate  of  Eure,  for  harbouring 

1  0 

0 

I 

0 

0 

5411.  Tithing  of  Will.  s.  of  Steph.  for 

escape  of  Will  Neweman 

6 

8 

6 

8 

55n   Huoh  de  L)ena  for  disseisin 

1  0 

I 

0 

0 

^6d.  Ralf  s.  of  Coleman,  for  purprcs- 

6 

8 

6 

8 

5~n.  Rob.  de  Serures   for  disseisin 

6 

g 

6 

8 

58n.  Matilda  de  Wika,  for  the  seme  ... 

O 

Q 
O 

8 

<,gn.  Rob.  de  Mara,  for  the  same   

2  O 

O 

2 

0 

0 

6on.  Eustace  s.  of  Rog,  for  pledge  of 

6 

8 

0 

Q 

O 

6in.  Alex,   de  Isenhamstcde,   for  the 

6 

8 

D 

O 

O 

62m  Rog.  clericus  of  Leham,  tor  dis- 

6 

8 

D 

O 

O 

63m  Tithing  of  Stanhard  de  Lecthon', 

for  escape  of  Rich.  Molena'   

6 

8 

0 

C 
O 

640.  Villate  of  Kemeston,  for  escape  of 

13 

4 

J3 

4 

6^n.  Tithing  of  John   Tirel,   for  the 

6 

8 

f. 
0 

S 

66n.  Will,  de  Eueresholt,  for  conceal- 

6 

8 

0 

8 

67m  Tithing  of  Gilb.  de  Herdewich. 

c 

0 

for  estreated  pledge   

6 

8 

6Sn.  Tithing  of  Rog.  Buch',  for  escape 

8 

6 

8  . 

0 

6gn.  Tithing  of  Robt.  Bonde,  for  es- 

g 

6 

8 

5 

7on.  Tithing  of  Will,  prepositus,  for 

escape  of  Sim.  s.  of  Rich  

(3 

8 

6 

8 

7m.  Pernell  widow  of  Rich.,  for  with- 

8 

6 

8 

6 

n.  New 

entry. 

110  ROLL  42  :   vii  0/72— 97 

Due.  Paid.  Balance 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  «J 

vii  O  7211.   {  Sh.,  for  chattels  of  Robt.  who 

abjured  the  realm    io  1   o } 

7311.  Tithing  of  Norm,  de  Sultrop,  for 

escape  of  Rog   6   8  6  8 

7411.  Tithing  of  Walt.  s.  of  Hugh,  for 

escape  of  Robt.  de  Herdewich  ...         6   8  6  S 

7^n.  Tithing  of  Will.  Bouet,  for  escape 

of  Will.  Palmer    6  8  6  S 

76n.  Robt.  s.  of  Ralf ,  {  escape  of  Will. 

Palmer  j.   false  claim    6  8  6  8 

77n.  Gilb.   de  Maperteshal',  for  dis- 
seisin   6  8  6  8 

78n.  Will,  de  Baioc',  for  the  same  ...  6  8  6  8 

7gn.  Ric.  s.  of  Guy,  for  the  same  ...  13  4  13  4 

8on.  Sanson  de  Prestele,  for  the  same  6  8  6  8 

8in.  Ralf  de  Stanbrigge,  for  the  same  6  8  6  8 

82n.  Will.  s.  of  John,  for  purpresture  6  8  6  8 

83n.  Adam  Duke,  for  the  same   6  8  6  8 

84n.  Warner  s.   of  Ralf,  because  he 

withdrew    6   8  6   8  * 

8$n.  Adam  bro.  of  Walt.  Tinctor,  for 

the  same    6    8  6  8 

86n.  Thos.  de  Ponte,  for  the  same  ...  6    8  6  8 

87n.  Ralf  Brant,  for  the  same    6    8  6  8 

88n.  Pain  paruus,  for  the  same    6    8  6  8 

Son.  Reiner    de   Billendon,  for 

concealment    6  8 

oon.  Robt.  de  Clipston',  for  the 

same    6  8 

gin.  Robt.    Blundus,    for  the 

same    6    8  m 

Q2n.  Adam  de  Fulesho,  for  the 

same    6  8 

93n.  Hugh  de  Lecthon',  for  the 

same    13  4 

9411.  Herbt.  Pine,  for  the  same    6  8 

9<$n.  Ric.  de  Prato,  for  the  same    6  8 

g6n.  Prior  of  Lecton,  for  dis- 
seisin   200 

4  13    4     4  13    4         0    0  0 


97n.  To  the  said  Prior  and 
the  N uns  of  Fontevrault, 
fdn.  by  liberty  of  roy. 
charter  for  themselves  and 
their  men  aforesaid  [Sg-g6]  4134 


n.  New  entrv 


DrVT  T       AO  •      -  *•*  A 

to 

viii  D 

111 

Due 

Paid. 

Balance. 

li. 

s. 

d. 

li. 

s. 

d. 

li. 

s. 

d. 

SCUTAGE  OF  WALES,  BEDS.,  Iigc. 

9 

9 

0 

9 

9 

0 

a.  Sim.  de  Bello  Campo   

10 

0 

4 

10 

A 

u 

3.  Sim.  de  Wahull'   

ia 

0 

»S 

0 

SCUTAGE  OF  WALES,  BUCKS.,  IIQO. 

i.  Will,  de  Windr'   

4 

10 

ro 

4 

10 

IO 

2.  Will.  Malduit   

17 

0 

17 

6 

3 

0 

0 

3 

0 

0 

6 

0 

5 

x5 

0 

SCUTAGE  OF  KNIGHTS  FOR  THE  KING'S 

RANSOM,   1 194. 

I.  Sim.  de  Bello  Campo  [in  two  pay- 

.S 

12 

Q 

O 

3 

16 

8 

16 

0 

a.  to  Guy  de    Sto.    Walerico  by 

■   writ  of  H.  Archbf,  Cant.  100 

and  the  balance  is  to  be  demanded 

\JL    die    Oil*    KJk     OUilcV     W  lit-/    11  dU  11 

as  Sim.  says. 

2.  Hugh  de  Cahaignis   

2 

O 

2 

0 

1.  Walt,  de  Wahilla   

27 

0 

O 

27 

0 

0 

1 

3 

O 

1 

3 

0 

8.  Herbt   de  Bolebec   

6 

s 

6 

8 

1 

10 

0 

1 

10 

0 

11.  Sh.,    scutage  of    Bidun   fee  [as 

41 J  viiiC  / 1 1  ] 

4 

0 

4 

5 

0 

SCUTAGE    OF    THE    SECOND    ARMY  OF 

Normandy  after  the  return  of  the 

T  j"1           cs      fiT^m     Almoin  iiQQPQQPrl 
JL/U.      XVg  .      liUili     A 1  i  11  c\  J.  ii  j  dootjaCU 

last  year. 

4 

13 

4 

10 

0 

IO 

0 

4 

0 

4 

0 

2 

0 

2 

6 

2 

O 

0 

2 

0 

0 

1 

O 

0 

1 

0 

0 

I  "3 

IO 

0 

9 

0 

0 

4 

10 

0 

Jsti     ^Vi      fr\v   fpp  rvf   Inhn    Hp  RiHnn 
OU  •    Oil.)    L\JL    ICC    \JL    J  VJii  11    K-±Ks    1)1U  11 11 

O 

I O 

0 

0 

on.  Ralf  de  Sumeri,  in  this  shire  ... 

9 

I 

0 

0 

0 

0 

a.  Quittance  by  writ  of  the  A  bp. 

9/0 

ion.  Advocate  of  Betun',  in  this  shire 

1 1 

O 

11 

0 

1  in.  Hen.  de  Novo  mercato,  in  this 

shire   

IO 

0 

IO 

0 

n.  New 

eat 

112 


ROLL  42  :   vUi  D,   vim  £ 


Due.  Paid.  Balanc* 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

1211.  Hamo  de  Girunde,  in  this  shire     2    c    o  200 

1313.  Robt.  Malduit,  io  this  shire  ...     :  is    o  0    0  0 

<7.  Quittance  by  writ  of  H.  Abp. 
of  Cant   /  75  o 

1411.  Walt,  de  Windr',  for  a  moiety  of 
the  Honour  which  was  cf  Will,  de 

Windr'  ,   g    >.    8  9    i  8 

i«;n.  Aubrey  de  Vei  .,   to   o    o         0    0  0 

a.  Quittance  by  writ  cf  Ji .  Abf. 
of  Cant   .  10  o  o 

These  [following]  have  quittance  from  the  King. 

i6n.  Simon  de  Bello  Campo  by  fine  of  100  marks  made  with  H.  Archbp.  cf 
Cant.    [See  42/1XE/5]. 

17m  Ilerbt.  de  Bolebec  similarly,  by  fine  of  2  marks  [see  42/ix/E/o,]. 

i8n.  John  de  Builli,  by  fine  of  10  marks  [see  42/ixE/7]. 

i9n.  a.  Hamo  s.  of  Hamo.  h.  Count  of  Moretaine. 

b.  Aubrey  de  Ver.  i.  Hugh  de  Bello  Campo. 

c.  Will,  de  Windr'.  j.  Geoff,  fitz  Peter. 

d.  Count  of  Aumale.  k.  Geoff,  de  Say. 

e.  Oliver  de  Aieneurl.  1.    Thos.  Basset. 

f.  Will.  Maresc'.  m.  Robt.  de  Kaiho. 

g.  Earl  of  Gloucester.  n.  John  de  Pratellis. 

SCUTAGE    OF    THE    THIRD    ARMY  OF 

normandy  after  the  return  of  the 

Ld.  Kg.  from    Almain,    assessed       Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

this  year.  li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

in.  Pet.  de  Suriua    10    o  10  o 

2n.  Robt.  s.  of  Rog   40  40 

311.  Hugh  s.  of  Alan    26  26 

4n.  Will,  de  Schirinton    200  200 

511.  Sh.,  for  fee  of  John  de  Bidun  ...  6  10    o  6  10  o 

6n.  Hamo  de  Girunde    200  200 

7n.  Robt.  Malduit    \  15    o         0    0  0 

a.  Quittance  by  writ  of  H.  Abp. 

of  Cant.    1  15  o 

8n.  Heirs  of  Walt,  de  Bolebec   10    o    o  10    o  o 

qn.  Will,  de  Windr'  for  a  moiety  of 
the  Honour  which  was  of  Will,  de 

Windr'    q    1    8  9    1  S 

ion.  Hamo  s.  of  Hamo   15    o    o  0    0  0 

a.  Quittance  by  writ  of  II.  Abf. 
of  Cant   75  o  o 

1  in.  Robt.  de  Albeneio. 

These  [following]  have  quittance  from  the  King. 

i2n.  H.  Archbp.  of  Cant.,  for  fees  of  Sim.  Passelewe  and  Walter  de  WahnU 
13m  Hugh  de  Chaagnis,  for  fine  made  [see  42/ixG/4o]. 


n.  New  entry. 


ROLL  42  :    viii  E   to  ix  E 


113 


ix  A 


viii  E  140.  Hugh  de  Bello  Campo,  likewise  for  fine  made  [see  42/ixG/3oJ. 

1511.  a.  Ric.  s.  of  Nigel.  j.  Earl  Clare. 

b.  Hen.  de  Nouo  Mercato.  k.  John  de  Builli. 

c.  Hen.  de  Pinkeiny.  1.  Robt.  de  Kaioto. 

d.  Sim.  de  Bello  Campo.  m.  John  de  Sanford. 

e.  Will.  Maresc'.  n.  Oliver  de  Aiencurt. 

f.  Ralf  de  Sumeri.  o.  Amaury  dispensator. 

g.  Rog.  de  Berchelay.  p.  Geoff,  de  Say. 

h.  Earl  of  Leicester.  q.  Walt,  de  Windr'. 

i.  Thos.  Basset. 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

PROMISES  j   1 190. 

Will,  de  Stodham  [as  4o/ixA/8]  10   o    o  10   o  o 

Jord.  Lenueisie  [as  36/ixA/oJ   368  100  268 

Gilbt.      de      Maperteshale  [as 

36/ixA/io]    13   6    8  13   6  8 

Robt.  s.  of  Ralf  s.  of  Bernard  [as 

36/LXA/14]      16  13    4  16  13  4 

Walt,  de  Windr'   [as  37/1XA/23]  39  18  11  300         36  18  11 

IX  B  OFFERINGS    THROUGH    THE  CHANCEL- 

LOR, II91. 

x.  Rog.   seruiens  of  Querendon,  ar- 
rears of  his  fine    806  *3    4  7    7  2 

2.  Ric.  de  Pertehale  for  his  fine    168  168 

6.  Robt.  s.  of  Robt.  de  Albeneio  for 
his  Relief,  paid  by  hands  of  H. 

Archbp.  Cant   82  13    4        13    o    o         69  13  4 

OFFERINGS  THROUGH  W.   ARCHBP.  OF 
ROUEN,    1 193. 

Walter  de  Stiueclea  for  judgment 

agst.  Rog.  de  Glanuill'    3  13    4  13    4  300 

Warin  s.  of  Robt.   [as  4o/ixC/7]     200  200 

OFFERINGS    THROUGH  H.  ARCHBP.  OF 
CANT-,  1194- 

Simon  Basset  [as  40/ixD/i]    6  13    4  6  13  4 

Sim.  Basset  [as  40/1XD/2]    2  13    4         2  13  4 

Ric.  Spigurnel  [as  4o/ixD/3]    200  200 

Hen.  de  Pinkeigni  [as  4o/ixD/5]  500  500 

Sim.  de  Bello  Campo  [as  4o/ixD/7]  6  13    4  6  13  4 

FINES    MADE    AFTER    THE    RETURN  OF 
THE  LD.  KG.  FROM  ALMAIN,  1195. 

2.  Robt.  Malduit  [as  41/1XE/2]    33    6    8        33    6  8 

3.  Regin.  s.  of  Ascur  [as  41/1XE/3]      100  100 

4.  Ric.  de  BaseuilP  [as  4i/ixE/4]  ...    20    o    o  20   o  o 

5.  Sim.  de  Bello  Campo  [as  4i/ixE/5] 
in  two  payments    66  13    4        66  13  4 

6.  Robt.      do     sco.      Remigio  [as 
41/1XE/6]    13    6    8        13    6  3 


ixC 


ixD 


8. 

9- 
10. 

14. 

23- 


ix  E 


114 


ROLL  42  :    ix  E   to   ix  G 


Due.  Paid.  Balance 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  <i. 

ix  E    7.  John  de  Builli  [as  4i/ixE/7]              6  13  4  6  13  4 

8.  Robt.  de  Hersin  [as  4i/ixE/8]  ...      <;    o  o  50  o 

9.  Herbt.  de  Bolebec  [as  4-1/ixE/g]  ...     1    6  8  16  8 

it.  Hugh  Peuerell'  [as  41/ixE/n]  ...          6  8  6  8 

12.  Hugh  de  Alnou  [as  4i/ixE/i2]  ...          6  8  6  8 

ix  F  NEW    PROMISES    THROUGH    H.  ABP. 

OF  CANT. 

in.  Hervey  s.  of  Will.,  to  have  a  writ 

of  18  mks   200  200 

2n.  Will.  s.  of  Ralf,  to  have  in  the 

Kg.'s  Court  his  plea  which  was 

in  the  Shire  Court  agst.  John  de 

sancta  Fide   13    4  '3  4 

3n.  Hugh  de  Saleford  to  have  his  plea 
in  the  Kg.'s  Court  agst.  Sim. 
ruff  us  of  a  fee  of  1  Kt.  in  Stodfald, 
in  respect  of  which  he  had  pre- 
viously elsewhere  promised 
[39/ixC/2]  2  mks.  to  have  Right 

thereof    168  168 

4n.  H.  Abp.  of  Cant.,  for  custody  of 
the  land  and  heir  of  Sim.  de 
Wahull'  until  the  heir  is  of  age 
and  for  the  right  of  his  marriage 

without  disparagement    333    6    8       157  17  [8]      175   9  o 

50.  Will  Ordrich,  to  have  Right  for 

15  m.  agst.  Hugh  de  Bello  Campo     200  200 

6n.  Sanson  de  la  Pomeraie,  to  have 
the  dau.  and  inheritance  of  Geoff, 
de  Belewe,  which  was  demanded 

in  co.  Oxon   33    6    8        10   o   o        23   6  S 

7n.  Will,  de  Hulmo,  to  have  Right  as 
to  8m.  against  Fulk  s.  of  Warin 
and  Alan  his  bro.,  to  be  demanded 

in  Cambs   13    4  13  4 

ixG  NEW  FINES  OF  THOSE  WHO  DID  NOT 

CROSS  IN  THE  THIRD  ARMY  OF  NOR- 
MANDY. 

Honour  of  Warengefor' 

Fees. 

in.  Will,  de  Vesci    £        13   4                                13  4 

2n.  Will.   Pipard    6     10   o    o                           10   o  0 

3n.  Thos.  s.  of  Ric   2      400  400 

4n.  Geoff,  de  Chausi    2400                             4   o  ^ 

c;n.  Hen.  de  Witefeld    £        13    4                                 13  4 

6n.  Will,  de  Plodesorne    1200                              2    0  0 

7n.  Ralf  de  Harpendene    3      3   o   o  3 


o 


n.  New  entr\ 


ROLL  42  :    he  G  115 

Due.  Paid.  Balance. 


i'  ees. 

8n.  Walt,  de  la  Penne    £ 

an.  Hamo  Carbunel    i 

ion.  Ruelent  Kuscarl    3 

1  in.  Thos.  de  Bcrchfeld   g 

i2n.  Will.  de  Kingestan   $ 

i.^n.  Rich.  Morin    1 

i4n.  Yrueius  Malet   

i^n.  Robl.  Foliot    2 

i6n.  Will,  de  Druuai   £ 

i7n.  Miles  de  Mori'    ^ 

i8n.  Will,  de  Wodmundel"    $ 

ion.  John  de  Wicha  .<   £ 

2on.  Sanson  de  la  Pomeraie    3 

a.  fdn.  to  Sanson  by  ray.  writ  by 
writ  of  Archbf.  Cant  jli. 

2in.  Master  Alard    1 

22n.  Fulk  s.  of  Ric   i£ 

23n.  Geoff,  s.  of  An3got    J 

24n.  Walt.   Croc    4 

2$n.  Ralf  Darel    $ 

26n.  Hen.  Bernard    £ 

27n.  Robt.  de  Valeines    2 

28n.  Alan  s.  of  Rolland    i\. 

2qn.  Will,  de  Arch  is    3 

3on.  Ruelent  Uscarl    3 

3m.  Geoff,  de  Mara   I 

32n.  Jordan  de  Valein'    2 

33n.  Ralf  Foliot    2 

34n.  Turstan  Basset    6 

3Sn.  Pet.  de  Bix'    $ 

36n.  Regin.  Andeg[auensis]    | 

[?  End  of  Honour  of  Walling- 
ford], 

37n.  Robt.  de  Cestreton    3 

3Sn.  Herbt.  de  Bolebec    1 

3gn.  Hugh  de  Bello  Campo    2 

4on.  Hugh  de  Cahaignis    $ 

4m.  Ralf  s.  o£  Geoff.    (Hon.  of 

Bern,  de  sco.  Walerico)    3^ 

42n.  Aldulf  de  Gatesden  (share  of 
fee  of  John  de  Bidun)   


1  i 

LI . 

s. 

A 

U. 

11.  s. 

j 

a. 

1; 

11.  s. 

j 

a. 

4 

A1 

2 

0 

1  A 

m  U 

A 

V 

4 

0 

0 

4  0 

0 

D 

Q 
O 

D 

0 

0 

0 

O 
O 

O 

Q 
O 

5 

g 

4  a 

X  u 

ft 

0 

c 

0 

O 

5  0 

0 

4 

9  41 

li  xo 

4 

6 

8 

6 

8 

*3 

4 

A1 

'3 

4 

13 

4 

10 

0 

10 

0 

3 

0 

0 

A  A 
U  U 

A 
U 

5 

0 

0 

f\  A 

D  U 

A 
U 

1 

10 

0 

1  10 

0 

1 

D 

c 

0 

A  fi 
x  O 

O 
O 

4 

O 

0 

4  0 

0 

g 

5 

g 

0 

Q 

0 

O 

O 

2 

0 

O 

A 

V 

5 

5  0 

0 

T3 

4 

6  13 

4 

Q 

0 

0 

I 

f. 
0 

0 

0 

x  D 

tt 
0 

5 

0 

0 

5  0 

0 

5 

0 

0 

0 

10 

0 

0 

10  0 

0 

X 

0 

Q 

O 

1  6 

8 

2 

0 

O 

O  A 

A 

u 

3 

0 

O 

3  0 

0 

2 

2  0 

0 

a 

0 

O 

5  0 

0 

13 

4 

13 

4 

4 

0 

0 

4  0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1  0 

0 

New  entry 


116 


ROLL  42  :    ix  G,   ix  H 


Due.  Paid.  Balance. 

Fees.    li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 
ix  G  4311.  Will.  Hose    1       100  100 

4411.*  Hen.  de  Clinton    (share  of 

land  of  John  de  Bidun)    200  2    o  o 

4$n.*  Hen.  de  Clinton   for   a  fee 
which  Will,  de  Clinton  holds  of 

him    1       1    o   o  100 

46n.*  Walt,  de  HertewelT  (Hon.  of 

Peverell)    1       1    o   o  100 

47n.*  Hugh  de  Haueresham    1500  500 

ilH  [NEW       OFFERINGS:       NO  JUSTICE 

NAMED  OR  INFERABLE]. 

in.  Jordan  de  Valeines  and  Robt. 
his  s.,  to  have  custody  of  the  heir 
of  Ruelend  de  Anuers  and  his 
whole  inheritance  and  marriage  of 
the  heir  without  disparagement ; 
on  the  death  of  either  the  survivor 

to  retain  the  custody    13    6    8        13    6  8 

2n.  [Abstract].  The  Prior  and  Con- 
vent of  Merton,  to  have  it  entered 
on  the  Great  Roll  that  Will,  de 
Tureuille  and  Ysabel  his  w.  have 
quitclaimed  to  them  all  their  right 
in  the  vill  of  Tappelawe  whereof 
had  been  suit  between  them  in  the 
Kg.'s  Court,  and  had  granted  to 
them  the  vill  in  perpetual  alms, 
free  of  all  secular  services  to  Will, 
and  his  heirs,  except  the  service  of 
two  kts.  which  the  Canons  will  do 
to  him  by  paying  the  moneys  for 
scutage,  and  for  this  Will,  will 
acquit  them  to  the  chief  lord  of  all 
service  save  forinsec  service  of  the 
lord  King,  which  the  Canons  are 
to  do;  and  that  Will,  has  granted 
them  freedom  from  Relief,  and  the 
right  of  advowson  of  the  church ; 
and  that  the  vill  of  la  Penne  which 
was  entitled  a  member  of  Tappe- 
lawe is  to  remain  to  Will,  and  his 
heirs,  and  the  Canons  can  claim 
nothing  therein,  and  that  no  part 
of  the  wood  or  of  the  meadow  of 
Cliuemers  nor  of  anything  within 
the  bounds  of  Tappelawe  [incom- 
pletely entered]    13    4  13  4 


n.  New  entry. 


ROLL    42  :    x  A   to  xl 


117 


Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

u.    s.  d.        h\    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 

X  JUDAICA. 

X  A  DEBTS    OF   AARON  TITE   JEW   OF  LIN  • 

COLif,  iiqi. 

1.  Will,  de  Tureuill',  Soli.,  on  bis 
lands  of  Linton  Futebroch  and 
Wili. 

2.  The  same,  51i.  3s.  4(1.,  on  his  land 
of  Haineldcn. 

But  these  are  to  be  demanded  in 
cos.  Warws.  and  Leics.  where  the 
pledges  are,  as  the  Sa.  says. 

3.  Hen.  de  Clinton  [as  41/XA/3]  ...200  200 

4.  Earl  Simon  [as  37/XA/4]    50    o   o  50    o  o 

X  B  OFFERINGS  THROUGH    THE  CHANCEL- 

LOR, II91. 

1.  Aaron  bro.  of  Leon  de  Dunstapl' 

[as  37/xB/i]    100  100 

2.  Mosse  s.  of  Mosse  [as  37/XB/2]  ...     100  100 

3.  Josce  s.  of  Mosse,  for  ros.  agst. 

Gilbt.  Passelewe      4    o  4  o 

X  C  OFFERINGS  THROUGH  W.  .\RCHBP.  OF 

ROUEN,  1 192. 

1.  Ursell  de  Gipesw'  [and  others,  as 

38/xC/i]    33    1    8  33    1  8 

2.  Walder  de  Vvicumba,  to  have  4m. 

of  Rog.  de  Hugenden    6    8  6  8 

3.  Hugh  de  Girund'  [as  3S/XC/3]  ...200  200 

Xi  ACCOUNTS  OF  FELONS  AND  FUGITIVES. 

2n.  Sh.,  chattels  of  Rog.  Poinant,  a 
runaway    1 

3n.  Sh.,  chattels  of  Will  Longus,  a 
runaway   

4n.  Sh.,  chattels  of  Robt.  s.  of  Payn, 
a  runaway   

$k.  Sh.,  chattels  of  Will.  Triket,  a 
runaway   

6n.  Sh.,  chattels  of  Edric,  a  runaway  1 

yn.  Sh.  chattels  of  Ernald  and  Gilbt., 
runaways   

8n.  Sh.,  chattels  of  John  Tirel,  a 
runaway   

9n.  Scutage  [  ?  rectius  Chattels]  of 
Will.  s.  of  Ordui,  a  runaway  ... 

ion.  Chattels  of  Robt.  who  abjured  the 
realm   

1  in.  Chattels  of  Ralf  s.  of  Paulin  ... 
n.  New  entry. 


6 

8 

1  6 

8t 

6 

8 

6 

8t 

*  3 

4 

13 

4t 

10 

6 

10 

6t 

0 

1  5 

Of 

5 

0 

5 

0+ 

1 

0 

1 

Of 

I 

0 

5 

Of 

1 

0 

1 

Of 

4 

0 

4 

Of 

t  1 

tallies, 

4IL  iSs.  2d. 

118  ROLL   42:    xii  A,  xiii 

Due.  Paid.  Balance 

li-    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d 

Xll  MANORS    SEPARATELY  SUMMONED. 

xii  A        brill.    Will.  s.  of  Ric.  accounts 
as  under  for  Bruhell : 

i,  2.  Farm  for  the  4th  and  5th  years, 
but  he  claims  that  4U.  of  this  is 

overcharged    18    4    ibl.  18   4    1  bl. 

3.  The  same  for  the  6th  year,  but  he 
claims  that  40s.  of  this  is  over- 
charged   7  15    2  bl.  7  15    2  bl. 

5.  The  same  for  this  year    20    o   o  bl.  20   o  o  bl. 

a.  to  Robt.  s.  of  Fulcher  [frotn 
HC/i]    3  o  jo 

b.  to  Brethr m  of  Hasp,  of  Wiisand 
[from  iiDl2~\    j  o  o  no. 

[not  accounted] 

Xiii  SPECIAL  ACCOUNTS  OF  ESCHEATS. 

MEMBRANE  17. 

ESCHEATS  ON  ESCHEAT  ROLL. 

xiiiH  bucks.,  1 196.  Account  of  Ralf 
Hareng  for  Will,  de  ste.  Mere 
Eglise  : — 

1.  a.  Olneia    of    the    Advocate  of 

Betun,  farm  for  \ yr.    15  10   o         5  10   6  8  17  o 

by  surplus  in  Eston  [xiiiBfiy  be- 


low] 

by  surplus  in  Upton  last  yr., 
lti.  os.  2d.  bl.  reckoned  as  1  o  8  no. 

aa.  farm  '  for  the  same  term  '    156  000 

by  work  done    1  5  6 

d.  sale  of  crops    20   o    o        19    0  0 

by  work  done,  and  payment  to  ser- 
vants   100 

e.  sale  of  wood    10   o   6        10   0  6' 

f.  perquisites  and  herbage   1    4   o         1    4  0* 

4.  Edulfesberga,  land  of  Will.  Blun- 

dus  5oo470 

a.  in  stocking  this  manor,  for  22 
sheep  us.,  and  2  swine  2s.  ...  130 

6.  Radenherst,     {  rent }     farm  [see 

iiD/15]   ;   10  o  o      10  0  0 

7.  Suaneburne,  of  Robt.  de  Tenerche- 

brai,  for  \  yr   210         2  10 

13.  Tornebir',    of    Ralf    Morin,  no 

stocking    168  168 


By  2  tallies,  rill.  4s.  6d. 


ROLL  42  :    xiii  H 

Due. 
li.    s.  d. 

xiii  H   16.  Westbir',  of  Thos.  de  sco.  Walerico     4  18  6 
a.  in  stocking  this  manor,  for  50 
sheep  /li.  5s.,  2  cows  Ss.  ...  /  o 

17.  Eston',  of  Will,  de  Clinton,  farm    20   9  3 

a.  in  stocking  this  manor,  for  joo 
sheep    2  10  o 

b.  to  the  Hermit  of  the 
Wood  of  Eston,  what  he 
used  to  have  of  the  gift  of 
Jordan  de  Clinton,  in  one 
acre  of  corn  and  in  hay 

and  money,  by  roy.  writ       7  0 

21-7  o 

Less      surplus  credited 
xiiiHjia    7  jo 

2152 

19.  Vuinges,  farm  for  \  yr   18  o 

20.  Wily,  of  Rog.  de  Saleford    1    3  o 

22n.  Cestreshara  which  is  of  the  fee 
of  Bolebech, 

a.  assessed  rent  for  \  yr   6    1  7 

aa.  assessed   rent   '  for   the  same 

term  '    7  6 

payment  to  servants  of  ihe  same 
vill    7  6 

b.  Perquisites  of  the  vill  «  for  the 

same  term  '    1  17  8 

c.  Sale  of  windfall  (cabulum)    5  o 

d.  Sale  of  crops  (bladum)    600 

23n.  Witcherche   of   the   fee  of  Bole- 
beche. 

a.  assessed  rent  for  \.  yr   204 

aa.  assessed  rent    1  for    the  same 

term'    1  12  11 

by  work  done  and  payment  to  ser- 
vants   /  12  11 

b.  sale  of  crops  and  of  1  affer  ...  40 

c.  sale  of  crops    11    6  8 

24n.  Hildesdon,  of  the  fee  of  Bolebech 

a.  farm  of  demesne  for  \  yr   126 

b.  farm  of  vill  except  demesne  for 

\  yr   2  15  11 

c.  perquisites  of  the  vill  ior  \  yr.  9  o 

25m  Pleas    and    perquisites    of  the 

Honour  of  Moretaine  in  Bucks.  ...  294 


Paid, 
li.    s.  d. 

3   5  6 


17  14  1 


18  0 
13  0 


6  17 
0   0  0 


1  17  8t 
5  Of 


2  0  4^ 
0   0  0 


4  0: 


12  6: 

2  15  lit 
9  0: 

2   9  4 


119 

Balance. 


600 


11    6  8 


n.  New  entry.  t  By  . 2  tallies,  2I1.  -s.  Sd. 

X  By  5  tallies,  61i.  iis\  od. 


120 


ROLL  4>  :    xni  J   to  xiv  C 


Due.  Paid.  Balance. 

Ii.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  -J. 

xiii  J        beds-,     1 196.      Account    of  Rah 

Hareng  for  Will,    de    ste.  Mere 
Eglise  :— 

2.  Harewud  of  Ralf  Morin,  tarm  ...     9  15    6         6  15  6 

a.  in  stocking  this  manor,  for  100 
shee-p  2li.  10s.,  2  cows  8  s.,  2  swine 

25.     3  0  0 

5.  Hennevvich,  farm     ,   4    o  4  0 

6.  Fernedis,  a  hide  of  Hatecrist  ...  160  150  10 
7a.  Wrastlingwurd,  fann                       13    o    o          8  14  0 

a.  in  stocking  this  manor,  for  9 
oxen  ili.  16 zoo  sheep  2I1.  10s. 

460 

q.  Rauenesden  of  Ralf  Morin   1    o    o  1    0  0 

nn.  Stiuiton,  of  Count  de  Githnes  : 
the  farm  is  paid  at  three  terms 

a.  farm  for  ^  yr   16    o    o  600         10    o  o 

b.  fine   made   by   the   farmers  to 

have  the  farm  thereof    5    o    o         5    0  0§ 

c.  sale  of  17  pigs  and  1  cow    [17    o]  [17  0§] 

xiv  ENROLMENTS,  COMBUSTIONS,  ETC. 

MEMBRANE  1. 
xiv  B         view  of  account,*  Easter,  8  Ric.  I. 

Simon  de  Bello  Campo    31  11  obi. 

44    4    9  no. 

And  he  is  quit. 
xivC  combustions.* 

MEMBRANE  2. 

1.  Combustions,  Easter,  8  Ric.  I. 

a.  Burgh  of  Bedford  9s.  yd. 

b.  Beds,  and  Bucks.  16s.  od. 

MEMBRANE  3. 

2.  Combustions,  Michaelmas,  8  Ric.  I. 

a.  Burgh  of  Bedford  for  the  whole 
year,  19s.  3d. 

b.  Bucks,  and  Beds.,  ili.  11s.  2d. 

c.  Arrear  of  Bucks,    and  Beds., 
15s.  8d. 

d.  Of  the  remainder,  sjs.  2d. 


New  entrv  §  Bv  two  tallies.  -U. 

*  Not  on  the  Sheriff's  Roll. 


J 


ROLL  43  :    i   to  WE 


121 


ROLL  43  :   9  RIC.   I  :  1197. 

MEMBRANE  14. 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  3.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

FARM  OF  THE  SHIRES. 

Simon  de  Bello  Campo  for  the  farm  369  19  11  bl.    71  16    1  bl. 

108   o   o  no.  79   8    1  no. 

ALLOWANCES. 
A     /•  Knighthood  of  the  Temple  168 
2.  Brethr.   of  Hospital  of  Whitsand 


1  10  5 

C     3.  John  Piedefer    /  /o  5 

D     /•  Monks  of  Woburn  in  Mill  of  Lech- 
ton'    1  12  o  no. 

3.  Brethr.  of  Hospit.  of  Whitsant,  in 
Luiton*    200 


5.  Nuns  of  F ontevraud  in  Lechton' 

48  8  o  no. 

6.  The  same  in  Radeneche  400  no. 

7.  The  same  in  Brichulla  1  12  o  no. 

8.  Wiscard  Leidet  in  Hida  de  Hulmo 

1  10  o 

q.  Heir    of    Rog.    le    follutrier  [as 
35liiDjg]    16  o 

10.  Robt.  de  Cayhou,  in  Wandoure 
and  Eton''    60  o  o  no. 

11.  Hugh  de  Gurnai ,  in  vill  of  Hoc- 
ton*    40  o  o  bl. 

12.  Baldwin    de    Betun\    in  Luiton' 

80  o  o  bl. 

13.  Vill  of  Bedeford\  accounted  below 
[Hi]    40  o  o  bl. 

14.  Manor  of  Bruhull',  for  wh.  Will, 
s.  of  Rie.  should  answer  as  the  Sh. 
says    20  o  o  bl. 

16.  Rog.  de  sco.  Manueio,  in  land  wh. 
was  of  Robt.  le  Scot  in  Aillesbir\ 
for  wh.  Rog.  himself  should  an- 
swer   10.  o 

jr     4.  Repairs  to  gaol  of  Aillesbir\  by 
roy.  writ    2  o 

I2n.  Ernulf  de  Diest,  for  stocking 
manor  of  {  Terenieford  \  Toren- 
totf ,  namely  3  -plough  [teams}  and 
100  sheep,  by  roy.  writ    5  5  4 

I3n.  One  prisoner  taken  from  Ailles- 
bir*  to  London  by  roy.  writ  1  o 


n.  New  entry. 


122  ROLL   43  :   ii  E   to  v 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        ii.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

ii  E  1471.  Several  -prisoners  taken  from 
Allies bir'  to  Westminster,  by  roy. 
writ    4  o 

ii  F    8n.  Judgments  and  justices  done  /  4 

[Sh.  owes  and  pays]    21    8    5  bl.    21    8    5  bl. 

and  he  is  quit. 

iii  FARM  OF  THE  BURGH. 

iii  Burgesses  of  Bedford    40    o   o  bl.    37  17    4  bl. 

a.  to  Thos.  uenator  2li.  5s.  y\d. 
[blanched]   2  3  4  bl. 

b.  surplus  [credited  to  the  Bur- 
gesses]   8  bl. 

iv  INCREMENT  AND  BALANCE. 

5.  Osbert  s.  of  Ric,  for  9  hawks  for 
2J.  yrs.  of  increment  of  Bucks,  in 

his  father's  time    900  100  800 

10.  13,  14.  Sh.  for  increment  of 
Bucks..  2  hawks  for  half  the  6th 
yr.,  4  hawks  for  half  the  7th  yr., 

and  4  hawks  of  last  yr  .    10    o    o        10    0  0 

i^n.  Sh.  for  4  hawks  of  the  increment 

of  the  Shire  in  this  year    400  400 

i6n.  Sh.  for  increment  of  Bucks,  [in 

this  year]    10   o   o        10    0  0 

i7n.  Sh.  for  the  old  Farm  {charged 
on  lands  of  the  kts.  of  the  Honour 
of  Sim.  de  Wahull }  [brought 
down  from  42/ i,  and  enrolled  be- 
tween iii  and  iv]    729  729 

V  PURPRESTURES  AND  ESCHEATS. 

i.  Sh.,  for  half  Hund.  of  Stanbrigge     200  200 

3.  Sh.,  for  land  of  Lambriht    40  4  0* 

4.  Will.  s.  of  Ric,  for  meadow  of 
Aclai ;  in  the  past  yr.  8s.  4d.,  and 

in  this  yr.  8s.  4d/   16    8  16  S 

11.  Will.  s.  of  Ric,  for  increment  of 
Bruhull'  for  land  of  Will,  de 
Rochele   there ;    in   the   past  yr. 

21L,  and  in  this  yr.  2li   400  400 

12.  Rog.  de  sco.  Manueio  for  land 
wh.  was  of  Robt.  le  Scot  in  Ailles- 

bit*    50  5  0* 

13.  Farm  of  the  land  of  Will,  pict'  in 

Aillesbir'    10  16* 

21.  Sh.,  for  old  farm  of  Svaneburn', 
but  Sh.  says  that  it  should  be 
demanded  of  Will,  maresc',  heir 
of  Tohn  maresc'  who  had  custody 

of  Escheats    ^35  1    3  5 

n.  New   entry.  *  By  3  tallies,  103. 


ROLL    43  :    vi   to  vii  O 


123 


Due.  Paid.  Balance. 


li. 

s. 

d. 

li.  s. 

d. 

li. 

s. 

d. 

D. 

ARREARS. 

V  11  Idle      y  L       JL*tllLULl   ,       IvJX  J-IlU.lU.ci 

L^Ssj  

1 

5 

8 

1 

6 

8 

9 

Jordan  de  Hameleden  eleriens,  for 

33 

6 

8 

33 

6 

8 

vii 

PLEAS   BEFORE  JUSTICES   IN  EYRE. 

vii  B 

2. 

7- 

Godwin  brucus,  for  escape  of  Will. 
Wife  of  Ansgot,  for  custody  of  his 

1 

S 

« 

8 

13 

4 

5 

l3 

4 

9- 

Will     q     .~>f  fwviff      +r>r  rii^Q^i^in 

VTilii      3.      \JL      \_X\_\J  *  A  •  }      J. 1    1                      -  t.Jili  ... 

3 

3 

0 

1 1 . 

l_T  U  11  U  U  J.  11       UC      /-.3>.Ult,       i\Jl     dIU.CH.  C 

3 

4 

3 

4 

12. 

Walt.  s.  of  Nichol.,  fcr  false  claim 

.S 

8 

1 

6 

4 

2 

Fulk  de  Hugenden  [as  35/viiB/i5] 

1 

10 

8 

2 

8 

1 

8 

O 

vii  C 

2. 

Giles  de  Pinkenni,  for  waste   

10 

0 

10 

O 

vii  F 

0 
O. 

T^ir*     c     rtf    Alrlpns      fr\  t    "fal^p  pIqitti 
XxIU.    0.     \JL    AiuCUa.     LK/X     lcLloC  LictlJLJI 

8 

ft 

fi 
0 

Robt.  piscator,  for  false  claim  ... 

c 

.  * 

8 

5 

g 

vii  G 

22. 

T  1  rVan        1            T-T  PrlinonAn        V  St  c 
U  I  L'dll        Uc       X1C1 11  Itfci  UUI1  L<ib 

35/viiG/22]   

18 

0 

18 

O 

vii  J 

4. 

Sh.,  for  small  matters  of  trie  forest 

1 

c 

J 

Q 

12 

0 

13 

9 

Vll  IV 

3. 

Will.  Wischard  [as  37 /vuK/ 3]  ... 

3 

0 

4 

9 

Q 
O 

2 

10 

0 
0 

vii  L 

3. 

Nich.  de  Bereuille,  for  withdrawal 

I 

0 

1 

0 

vii  M 

*5- 

Frankpledge  of  Turkill  de  Camel- 

3 

4 

3 

4 

viiN 

IO. 

Will.   Basset  of  Draiton,   for  es- 

6 

8 

3 

4 

3 

4 

12. 

Ralf  de  Burestrod,  for  the  same... 

6 

8 

6 

8 

14. 

Frankpledge   of  Will.     Coc,  for 

8 

4 

8 

4 

MEMBRANES  14  AND  14  DORSO. 


BEFORE     SIM.     DE     PATES  FULL  AND 

OTHERS  [1196]. 

I. 

Sh.,  from  Dusteberga  Hund.,  for 

1  0 

0 

1  0 

0 

2. 

Tithing  of  Ric.  de  Heluewerc,  for 

2 

8 

2 

8 

3- 

Chattels  of  Baldw.  de  Waddon  a 

2 

0 

2 

0 

4- 

Sh.,  tithing  of  Will.  Whiting,  as 

8 

42/viiO/4   

8 

5- 

Sh.,  for  Will.  Pictav',  for  estreated 

3 

4             3  4t 

6. 

Robt.  de  Greinuill',  for  the  same 

3 

4             3  4t 

7- 

Tithing   of   Will.    Carbonar5,  [as 

42/viiO/7]   

4 

11 

4 

8. 

Burneham  Hundr.,  for  murder  ... 

1.3 

4 

»3 

4 

t  See  note  j  on 

follow 

ing  page. 

124 


ROLL  43  :    yii  0/9— 39 


Due.  Paid.  Balance 


vii  O    g.  Tithing  of  Robt.  de  la  Hulle  [as 
42/viiO/g]   

10.  Sh.,  for  Erleie  Hund.,  for  murder 

11.  Hund.  of  Stokes,  for  the  same  ... 

12.  John  de  Wilies,  for  false  present- 
ment   

13.  Will,  de  Louente,  for  the  same  ... 

14.  Robt.  de  Wuketon,  for  the  same  ... 

15.  Villate  of  Neweport,  for  the  same 

16.  Ralf  Maresc',  for  default   

17.  Hundr.  of  Bunestowe,  for  murder 

18.  Walt,  del  Herst,  for  withdrawal  ... 
iq.  Mulesho  Hundr.,  for  murder   

20.  Walt.  s.  of  Turstan,  for  disseisin 

21.  Walt.  s.  of  Will.,  for  the  same  ... 

22.  Bukelaw  [Half]  Hundr.,  for  mur- 
der   

23.  Mannesheued  Hundr.,  for  the 
same   

24.  Ric.  de  Eueresholt,  for  conceal- 
ment   

25.  Clifton  Hundr.,  for  the  same   

26.  Bikeswade  Hundr.,  for  murder  ... 

27.  Sh.,  for  Wriicstanes'  Hundr.,  for 
concealment   

28.  Villate  of  PuUoksshuir,  [as 
42/viiO/28]   

29.  Stoddene  Hundr.,  for  murder  ... 

30.  Ralf  de  Tiuill',  for  disseisin   

33.  Tithing  of  Robt.  Blund'  [as 
42/viiO/33]   

34.  Tithing  of  Aluric  Bai,  for  escape 
of  Robt.  s.  of  Estgieue   

35.  Salomon  mercator  of  Wicumbe,  for 
default   

36.  Tithing  of  Ralf  s.  of  Will.,  [as 
42/VUO/36]   

37.  Sh.,  for  chattels  of  Hamo  de  Hal- 
ton   

38.  Sh.,  for  Villate  of  Isenhamstede. 
for  escape  of  Godfr.  and  John 
Unifang  

39.  Sh.,  for  chattels  of  Robt.  le  Tanar, 
a  runaway   


li.  s. 

d. 

li.  s. 

d. 

li.  s. 

6. 

2 

8 

1 

10 

10 

17 

0 

2 

0 

15 

0 

7 

0 

7 

0 

1 1 

4 

11 

4 

6 

8 

3 

4 

3 

4 

3 

4 

3 

4t 

9 

0 

9 

Of 

1 

8 

1 

8t 

10 

0 

10 

O 

8 

1 

0 

1 

8 

10 

0 

10 

0 

5 

8 

5 

8t 

6 

8 

6 

8 

7 

0 

7 

0 

10 

0 

10 

0 

3 

4 

3 

4t 

9 

0 

9 

0 

1 1 

0 

IT. 

0 

q 

0 

1 

0 

8 

0 

2 

0 

2 

0 

I  I 

0 

11 

0 

3 

4t 

6 

8 

6 

8 

6 

8 

6 

S 

6 

8 

6 

8 

6 

8 

6 

8 

8 

0 

8 

0 

10 

0 

10 

0: 

+  See  note  X,  p.  1^0.  f  By  S  tallies,  ili.  13s. 


ROLL   43;  viIO/40-07 

Due. 
li.    s.  d. 


vii  O  40.  Sh.,  for  tithing  of  Ric.   de  sec. 

Egidio  [as  42/viiO/4o]    6  8 

41.  Sh.,  for  chattels  of  Tureburn,  a 
runaway      6  o 

42.  Sh.,  for  chattels  of  Simon,  a  run- 
away  i   13  4 

43.  Villate     of     Heddesore  [as 
42/viiO/43J   6  8 

44.  Villate     of      Creendon  [as 
42/viiO/44]    13  4 

45.  Sh.,  tor  escape  of  thb  name  Miles  3  c 

46.  Tithing     of     Thos.     Pese  [as 
42/viiO/46]    6  8 

47.  Tithing  of  Pet.  de  Littlecote  [as 
42/viiO/47]    6  8 

48.  Sh.,  for  chattels  of  Robt.  Deth,  a 
runaway    12  o 

4Q.  Sh.,  for  chattels  of  Herbt.  de  Rise- 

berge,  runaway    7  o 

50.  Tithing   of   Edric   de  Upton  [as 
42/viiO/«;o]   6  8 

51.  Tithing  of  Hamming-  del  Slo  [as 
42/viiO/5i]   6  8 

52.  Sh.,  for  chattels  [as  42/viiO/52]      1    5  7 

53.  Villate  of  Eure  [as  42/'viiO/53]...      1    o  o 

54.  Tithing  of  Will.  s.  of  Steph.  [as 
42/viiO/54]    6  8 

55.  Hugh  de  Dena,  for  disseisin    100 

56.  Ralf  s.  of  Coleman,  for  purpres- 

ture    6  8 

57.  Robt.  descrupes,  for  disseisin    6  8 

58.  Matilda  de  Wica,  for  the.  same  ...  6  8 
e;g.  Robt.  de  Mara,  for  the  same    200 

60.  Eust.  s.  of  Rog.,  for  pledge  of  Alan         6  8 

61.  Alex,    de    Isenhamstede,    for  the 

same    6  8 

62.  Roger   de  Le  {  de  }  ham    for  dis- 
seisin   6  8 

63.  Tithing  of  Stonhard    de  Lethon' 

[as  42/viiO/63]    6  8 

64.  Villate  of  Kemeston',  for  escape  of 

Osbt.  Pate   13  4 

65.  Tithing      of     John      Tirel  [as 
42/VUO/65]    6  8 

66.  Will,   de  Eueresholt,  for  conceal- 
ment   6  8 

67.  Tithing  of  Gilbt.  de  Herdewic  [as 
42/VHO/67]    6  8 


+  See  note  t,  p.  120. 


126 


ROLL  43  :    vii  O   to  viii  C 


Due.  Paid.  Balance 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.       li.    3.  £ 

vii  O  68.  Tithing     of     Rog.     Buche  [as 

42/viiO/68]                                           6   8  6  8 

69.  Tithing     of     Robt.     Bunde  [as 

42/viiO/6oJ    6    8  6  8 

70.  Tithing  of  Will,    prepositus  [as 

42/VHO/70]    6   8  6  8 

71.  Pernell  wid,  of  Ric.  for  withdrawal         6    8  6  8+ 

73.  Tithing  of  Norman  de  Sultrop  [as 

42/viiO/73]    6    8  6  8 

74.  Tithing  of  Walt.  s.  of  Hugh  [as 

42/viiO/74]    6    8  6  8 

75.  Tithing     of     Will.     Bouet  [as 

42/viiO/75]    6    8  6  S 

76.  Robt.  s.  of  Ralf,  for  false  claim  ...  6    8  6  8 

77.  Gilbt.  de  Maperteshal',    for  dis- 
seisin   6    8  6  8+ 

78.  Will,  de  Baioc',  for  the  same    6  8  6  8+ 

79.  Ric.  s.  of  Guy,  for  the  same    13  4  13  4 

80.  Samson  de  Prestelea,  for  the  same  6  8  6  8 

81.  Ralf  de  Stanbrigge,  for  the  same  6  8  6  8 

82.  Will.  s.  of  John  de  Hccton,  for 

purpresture    6    8  6  8 

83.  Adam  Duke,  for  the  same    6    8  6  8 

84.  Warner  s.  of  Ralf,  for  withdrawal         6    8  6  S 

85.  Adam  bro.  of  Walt,  tinctor,  for  the 

same    6    8  6  8 

86.  Ihos.  de  Ponte,  for  the  same    6    8  6  S 

viii  A  SCUTAGE  OF  WALES,  BEDS. ,  II90. 

1.  Robt.  de  Albeneio    9    9   o  9   9  0 

3.  Sim.  de  WahulP    15    o  15  0 

viii  B  SCUTAGE  OF  WALES,  BUCKS.,  1190. 

1.  Will,  de  Windlesor'    4  10  10  4  10  10 

2.  Will.  Malduit    17    6  17  6 

8.  Hamo  s.  of  Hamo    300  3   o  0 

9.  Hen.  de  Pinkenni    6  15    o  15    o  6   o  o 

Viii  C  SCUTAGE    FOR    THE    KING'S  RANSOM, 

II94. 

i.  Sim.      de      Bello     Campo  [as 

42/viiiC/i]    16   o  16  o 

3.  Wralt.  de  WahulP    27    o   o         0    0  0 

a.  to  H.  Archbf.  of  Cant,  who  has 

custody  of  the  said  Walter's  land, 
by  roy.  writ    27  o  o 


+  By  6  tallies,  2li.  10s. 


ROLL    43  :    viii  G   to   viii  E 


127 


Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

viil  C     7-  Will,  de  Schiriton    i    3  o  16    o               7  o 

8.  Herbt.  de  Bolebec    6  8  6  8 

10.  Hen.  de  Pinkenni    1  10  o  1  10  o 

11.  Sh.,  for  fee  of  John  de  Bidun  [as 

41/viiiC/n]    450  450 

MliD  SCUTAGE    OF    THE    SECOND    ARMY  OF 
NORMANDY,  1 196. 

1.  Hugh  de  Cahaignes    13   4  13  4 

2.  Pet.  de  Suriua    10    o  10  0 

3.  Sh.,  for  Robt.  s.  of  Rog   4   o  4  0* 

4.  Sh.,  for  Hugh  s.  of  Alan    2    6  2  6* 

5.  Will,  de  Sciriton    200  200 

6.  Herbt.  de  Bolebec    100  100 

7.  Hen.  de  Pinkenni    4  10    o  4  10  o 

8.  Sh.,  for  fee  of  John  de  Bidnn  6100  2    30  470 

10.  Advocate  de  Betun'    11    o  11  o 

11.  Sh.,  for  Hen.  de  Nouo  Mercato  .  10    o  10  0* 

12.  Hamo  de  Girunde    200  200 

14.  Walt,  de  Windr',  gli.  is.  8d.,  for 
scutage  of  a  moiety  of  the  Honour 
which  was  of  Will,  de  Windr',  but 
afterwards  he  had  quittance  by- 
writ  of  "the  Archbp. 

viii  E  SCUTAGE    OF    THE    THIRD    ARMY  OF 

NORMANDY,  1 1 96. 

1.  Pet.  de  Suriua    10    o                                 10  o 

2.  Robt.  s.  of  Roger    40  40 

3.  Hugh  s.  of  Alan    26              2  6 

4.  Will,  de  Sciriton    200  200 

5.  Sh.,  for  scutage  of  fee  of  John  de 

Bidun    6  10    o  6  10  o 

6.  Hamo  de  Girunde    200  200 

8.  Heirs  of  Walt,  de  Bolebec    10    o   o         0    0  0 

a.  to  Helyas  de  Bella  Camfo  and 
Hen.  Nonant  who  have  the  heirs 
of  Walter  to  wife,  by  royal  writ 
10  o  o 

q.  Will,  de  Windr'  for  scutage  of 
moietv  of  the  Honour  which  was 

of  Will,  de  Windr'    918  918 


By  3  tallies,  16s.  6d. 


128 


ROLL    43  j    viii  F   to  ix  D 


Due.  Paid.  Bahncr 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    3.  d 

Viii  F  TALLAGE  I  EVTED  IN  BUCKS.  AND  BEDS. 

BY     SIM.     DE     BFLLO    CAMPO,  RALV 
HARENG,  AND  THEIR  FELLOWS. 

in.  Sh.,  for  tallage  of  Aillesbiri    500         5    0  OX 

2D.  Sh.,  tallage  of  Radc-neche    13    4             13  4t 

3n.  Sh.,  tallage  of  Eston'    10    o             10  Ot 

4n.  Sh.,  tallage  cf  Svar^burn'    6    8              6  8t 

511.  Sh.,  tallage  of  Aduluesberga    6    8              6  8+ 

6n.  Sh.,  tillage  of  Wrastlingewrde...  13    4             13  4+ 

73a.  Sh.,  tallage  of  Karewude    6   8              6  8+ 

8n.  Sh.,  tallage  of  Fernedis   6    8              6  8t 

on.  Villate  of  Wicumba    5    o    o  500 

ion.  Villate  of  BledeJawe    100  100 

nn.  Villate  of  Santtesdon'    6    8                                 6  8 

1211.  Villate  of  Bruhuli'    100  100 

1311.  Villate  of  Hocton    1  10    o                              1  10  0 

ix  A  PROMISES,  iiqo. 

8.  Will,  de  Stodham  [as  4o/ixA/8]  ...    10    o    o  10    o  0 

q.  Jord.  Lermeisie  [as  36/ixA/a]  ...     2    6    8  2    6  8 

10.  Gilbt.      de      Maperteshal'  [as 

36/ixA/io]    13    6    8  13   6  8 

14.  Robt.  s.  of  Ralf  s.  of  Bernard  [as 

36/ixA/i4]    16  13    4  16  13  4 

23.  Walt.     de     Windlesores  [as 

37/ixA/23]    36  18  11         200  34  18  11 

ix  B  OFFERINGS    THROUGH   THE  CHANCEL- 

LOR, ngi. 

1.  Rog.  seruiens  de  Querendon',  ar- 
rears of  his  fine    7    7    2  13    4  6  13  i° 

6.  Robt.  s.  of  Robt.  de  Albeneio,  for 

his  Relief    69  13    4  69  13  4 

ixC  OFFERINGS  THROUGH  W.  ARCHBP.  OF 

ROUEN,  I IQ3. 

5.  Walt,  de  Stiueclea,  for  judgment 

agst.   Rog.   de  GlanuilP    3    o    o  1    6    8  1  *3  4 

ix  D  OFFERINGS  THROUGH  H.  ARCHBP.  OF 

CANT.,   1 194. 

i.  Sim.  Basset  [as  40/ixD/i]    6  13    4  13.  4  6  o 

3.  Ric.  de  Spigurnel  [as  qo/ixD/i]     200  2    o  1 

5.  Hen.  de  Pinkenni    [as   4o/ixD/5]     500  5   0  0 


n.  New  entry.  *  By  8  tallies,  Si i.  3s.  4d. 


ix  E 


ix  G 


ROLL   43  :    ix  D 

to 

ix  G 

129 

Due 

Paid. 

Balance. 

li. 

s. 

d. 

li. 

s. 

d. 

li. 

s. 

d. 

7- 

Simon     de     Bello     Campo  [as 

4o/ixD/7]         accounted  below 

[brought  up  into  place  here  bv 

6 

13 

4 

V 

0 

0 

a.  to  Master  Philip  for  the  Kg.'s 

use  by  roy.  writ,  by  roy.  writ  from 

overseas  to  the   Barons  touching 

the  reckoning  of  debts  fines  and 

payments   while  the  Kg.    was  in 

Almoin^  wh.  Philip  warranted  that 

he  had  received — which  writ  is  in 

flip     inrpl    nf    thp     Xf/jTzhnl     iny  fhr 

l  f  4-  c       /  C//  C£      U  J       IrIC       L'i.  Cl  r  0  /iti-L       j U /        I  ft  i~ 

Qth  yr   in  Northants             6  134 

FINES  MADE  AFTER  THE  KG.'S  RETURN 

FROM  ALMAIN,   1 195. 

3* 

Regin.  s.  of  Ascur  [as  4i/ixE/3l 

1 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

4- 

[Ric]   de  BascheuilP   for  811 .  of 

land,  because  with  Ct  John   

20 

0 

0 

20 

0 

0 

8. 

[Robt.]  de  Hersin  [as  41/ixE/cS] 

5 

0 

0 

5 

0 

0 

Hugh  PeuerelT  [as  41/ixE/n]  ... 

6 

Q 

O 

6 

8 

12. 

Hugh  de  Alnou  [as  4i/ixE/i2]... 

6 

8 

3 

4 

3 

4 

PROMISES   THROUGH    H.    ARCHBP.  OF 

CANT.,  IIq6. 

I. 

Hervey  s.  of  Will.,  to  have  a  writ 

of  1 8m   

2 

0 

0 

2 

0 

O 

2. 

Will.  s.  of  Ralf  [as  42/ixF/2]  ... 

13 

4 

*3 

4 

3. 

Hugh  de  Saleford    [as  42/'ixF/3] 

6 

8 

1 

6 

8 

4. 

H.  Archbp.  of  Cant,  [as  42/ixF/4l 

9 

0 

175 

A 

y 

u 

Will       C\rAr\t-l      Toe     a  ->  /  i  -v-T?  /  f  1 

2 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

6. 

Samson  de  la  Pcmeraie,  to  have 

the  dau.  and  inheritance  of  Geoff. 

23 

6 

Q 

O 

10 

0 

0 

f3 

6 

8 

7. 

Will,  de  Hulmo  [as  .12/ixD/io]  ... 

13 

4 

13 

4 

FINES    FOR    NOT    CROSSING    IN  THE 

THIRD  ARMY  OF  NORMANDY,  AND  FOR 

SCUTAGES,    I 196. 

[Honour  of  Wallingford]  Fees 

1. 

Will    de  Vesci    \ 

13 

4 

13 

4 

2. 

W7ill    Pipard                        ..  6 

10 

0 

0 

10 

0 

0 

4. 

Geoff   de  Chausi    2 

4 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

Hen    de  Whitefeld  { 

13 

4 

*3 

4 

6. 

2 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

"7. 

Rilf  de  Harpeden    3 

3 

0 

0 

3 

0 

0 

1 0. 

4 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

I  I . 

Thos    de  Borecfeld  4 

6 

8 

6 

8 

12. 

Will    de    Kingeston    £ 

6 

8 

6 

8 

16. 

6 

8 

6 

8 

i 


! 


130 


ROLL  43  :    \x  G    to   x  B 


Due 

Fees. 

li.  s. 

d 

ji 

10 

0 

  t'i 

1  10 

0 

24.  Walt.  Croc   

4  0 

0 

 •  3 

8  0 

0 

5  0 

0 

3S-  Pet.  de  Bix   

1  6 

8 

Paid.  Balance 
li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d 

10  o 

1  10  o 

400 

800 
5   o  0 

16  8 

37.  Robt.  de  Cestreton    3      300  300 

38.  Herbt.  de  Bolefeec    1       20c  2   o  0 

39.  Hugh  de  Bello  Campo    2500  500 

41.  Ralf    s.   of    Geoff.,    Hon.  of 

Bernard  de  sco.  Walerico    3J     4    o    o  400 

44.  Hen.  de  Clinton,  for  share  of 

land  of  John  de  Bidun    200  200 

45.  Hen.  de  Clinton,  for  fee  wh. 

Will,  de  Clinton  holds    1       1    o    o  100 

46.  Walt,  de  HertweU,    Hon.  of 

Peuerel    1       1    6    8     •    1    6  8 

47.  Hugh  de   Hauercsham,  Hon. 

of  Peuerel    1       5    o   o         3    6    8  113  4 

ixH  [NEW       OFFERINGS:       NO  JUSTICE 

NAMED    OR  INFERAuLE.] 

2.  Prior  and  Convent  of  Merten,  for 

enrolment  [as  42/ixH/2,  1196]  ...        13   4  13  -; 

3n.  Sim.  de  Bello  Campo,  for  leave 
to  return  from  Normandy  to  Eng- 
land [119G]    26  13   4        26  13  4 

4n.  Nich.  Malherbe,  to  have  forgive- 
ness for  that  he  espoused  the  dau. 
of  Elias  de  Hinton'  while  a  ward 

by  order  of  the  Archop   6  13    4  6  13  4 

5n.  Emma  de  Peri  to  have  record 
and  judgment  agst.  Will.  Basset 
concerning  land  of  Aclea,  whereof 
was  pleaded  between  them  in  the 
Kg.'s  Court  at  Westminster,  and 

it  stood  over  by  roy.  writ    26  13    4  26  13  * 

X  A  DEBTS    OF   AARON   THE   JEW   OF  LIN- 

COLN,  I IQI. 

3.  Fen.  de  Clinton  [as  41 /x A/3]  ...200  20? 

4.  Earl  Simon  [as  37 /x A/4]                  50    o    o  5°   0  0 

xB     1  •  Aaron  bro.  of  Leon  [as  37/xB/i]      100  1   o  o 

2.  Mosse  s.  of  Mosse  [as  37/XB/2]      100  10'" 

3.  Josce  s.  of  Mosse  for  20s.  agst. 

Gilbt.   Passelewe    40  A  0 

n.  N'ew  entry. 


ROLL    43  :    x  C   to  xiii  J  131 

Due.               Paid.  Balance, 
li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

xC     i.  Ursell  de  Gipeswiz   [and  others, 

as  38/xC/i]                                     33    1    §  33    ,  g 

a.  Walder  de  Wicumb',  to  have  4m. 

of  Rog.  de  Hugenden                             6    8  6  8 

3.  Hugh  de  Girunde   [as  38/XC/3]      200  200 

Xli  MANORS   SEPARATELY  SUMMONED. 

xiiA        Bruhull',  Will.  s.  of  Ric  accounts 
as  under  : 

i,  2.  Farm  for  the  4th 
and  5th  yrs.,  but  he 
claims  that  4li.  is  over- 
charged  18    4    1  bl. 

3.  Farm  for  the  6th  yr. 
but  he  claims  that  2li. 
is  overcharged    7  15    2  bl. 

25  19   3       25  l9    3  bl.  14  18  [9]  bl.  11    o   6  bl. 
«;.  Farm  for  last  year    20    o    o  bl.  [20   o  o] 

a.  to  Robt.  s.  of  Fid- 

cher    3    o  10 

b.  Brethr.  of  Hos-p.  of 
Whitsand    3    o    o  no. 

6n.  Farm  for  this  year    20    o    o  [20    o  o] 

a.  to  Robt.  s.  of  Fid- 

cher    3    o  10 

b.  Brethr.  of  Hosf.  of 
Whitsand    3    o    o  no. 

xiii  SPECIAL  ACCOUNTS  OF  ESCHEATS. 

(escheats     transferred  to 
sheriff's  roll). 

Will,  de  Ste.  Mere  Eglise  accounts 
as  under  for  arrears  : 

xiii  II     1.  Farm  of  Olneia,  for  past  year  ...     8170  [8  17  0} 

22.  Sale  of  crops  in  Cestresham  for 

past  year    6    o    o  [6    o  0} 

23.  Sale  of  crops  in  Whitecherch  for 

same  term    11    6    8  [11    6  8] 

For  these  [Nos.  22  and  23]  Earl 
Aubrey  should  answer,  for  he  ad- 
mitted that  he  had  the  crops  on 
the  precept  of  H.  Archbp.  of 
Canterbury. 

xiii  J    6.  Farm  of  Henewic  [rectius  Ferne- 

dis]  for  past  year    1    o  1  0 

ix.  Farm  of  Stiuiton  for  past  year  ...    10    o    o  10    o  o 

n.  New  entrv. 


132  ROLL  43  :    xiii  K,  xiii  L 

Due.  Paid.  Bahr*. 

hi    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    &.  g 

xiiiK         Escheats  [for  this  year]  in  Bucks., 
1197. 

1.  Sh.,   Olneia,  of  the  Advocate  of 
Betun 

a.  farm    33  n    o        33  11  0: 

e.  sale  of  wood    21    3    4        17  13    4  j  IO  Q 

ee.  sale  of  wood    7  10    o         7  10  Ot 

f.  perquisites    502  5    0  2% 

g.  landgable  from  Martinmas    100  100 

4.  Sh.,  farm  of  Eduluesberge  of  Will. 
Blundus    500  500 

13.  Sh.,    Tornebiri    of    Ralf  Morin, 

without  stocking    98  9  8 

16.  Sh.,  farm  of  Westbiri  for  \  yr., 
before  it  was  rendered  to  Annora 
de  sco.  Walerico    2  10    o  2  10  0 

17.  R.,  Archdeacon  of  Ely,  farm  of 
Eston'  of  Will,  de  Clinton    20    9    3        20    2  3 

a.  to  Hermit  of  the  Wood  of  Eston' 
by  the  gift  of  ford,  de  Clinton,  in 
1  acre  of  corn  and  in  hay  and 
money    7  0 

23.  Sh.,  for  assessed  rent  of  White- 

cherch    of    the    fee    of  Bolebec, 

whereof   Geoff,   fitz   Peter  should 

answer  as  the  Sh.  says    814  [814' 

26n.  Geoff,  fitz  Peter,  pasnage  of  Ber- 

newude  forest    530  530 

27n.  Geoff,  fitz  Peter,  farm  of  Schirin- 

ton    400  400 

Jtiii  L         Escheats  [for  this  year]  in  Beds., 
1 197. 

2.  Sh.,  farm  of  Harewude  of  Ralf 

Morin    10    o    o        10    0  0§ 

5.  Sh.,  farm  of  Henewic    4    o  h  0§ 

6.  Sh.,  hide  of  Hatecrist  in  Fernedis      160  150  J  0 

7.  Sh.,  farm  of  Wrastlingewurde  ...    13    o    o        13    0  0§ 

9.  Sh.,    land    of    Ralf    Morin  in 

Rauenesden    100  10* 

IX.  Sh.,  farm  of  Stiuiton  of  Ct.  de 
Gisnes  (rendered  at  3  terms 
yearly)  from  the  term  of  the 
Annunciation,  and  the  balance 
should  be  demanded  from  Steph. 

de  Turneham,  as  Sh.  says    47    o    o        15  10    o         31  to  0 


n.  New   entry.  §  By  3  tallies.  23H.  4s. 

t  By  2  tallies,  jSIi.  11s.  2d.  f  By  2  tallies,  7H.  10s. 


ROLL  44  :    i   to  11  F 


133 


ROLL  44  :    10  RIG   I  :  1198. 

MEMBRANE  1. 


Dae.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        ii.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 


FARM   OF  THE  SHIRKS. 

Robert  de  Braibroc  for  Will,  de 


Albenni    369  19  11  bl.    66  17  obi. 

108    o    o  no.  98  12    9  no. 

ALLOWANCES. 
A     /•  Knighthood  of  the  Temple  168 

2.  Brethr.  of  Hosp.  of  V/hitsand  1  id  j 

C     3-  John  Piedefer    /  10  5 

D  /•  Monks  of  Woburn  in  mill  of  Lech- 
ton*    /  12  o  no. 

3.  Brethr.  of  Hcs-p.  of  Whitsant  in 
Luiton*    200 

5.  Nuns  of  Fontevraud  in  Lechton' 

48  8  o  no. 

6.  The  same  in  Radencehe  ...400 

7.  The  same  in  Brie  hull'  [1  12  o  no.] 

8.  Wise  hard  [Leidet]  in  Ilida  de 
Hulmo    [1  10  o  no.) 

q.  Heir  of  Rog.  de  Fol[lutrier]  [as 
in  35  j  ii  Dig]    (16  o] 

10.  In    Wandour*   and   Ea[ton    as  to 

which]  Steph.  de  Turv.eham  must 

answer,  as  Sh.  says    [60  o  o] 

It.  Hugh   de    Gurnai   in   the  vill  of 

Hoe  ton''    40  o  o  bl. 

12.  Baldewin  de  Betun  in  Luiton% 

So  o  o  bl. 

13.  [Vill  of]  Bedeford,  accounted  be- 
low [Hi]    40  o  o  bl. 

14.  Manor  of  BruhulV  for  which  Will, 
s.  of  Ric.  must  answer,  as  Sh.  says 

20  o  o  bl. 

16.  Rog.  de  Sancto  Manueio  in  the 
land  which  was  of  Robt.  le  Scot 
in  AiUesbir'  as  to  which  Rog. 
himself  must  answer    10  o 

E  i$n.  To  -  -  -  s.  of  David  for  his  main- 
tenance in  the  Welsh  Marches  in 
the  Kg.'s  service,  by  writ  of  Geoff, 
fitz  Peter    3  6  8 

F     Qn.  For  carriage  of  3  prisoners  from 

Aillesbir'  to  Westminster    3  o 

and  he  owes  [ioli.]  3s.  icd.bl. 


n.  New  entry. 


134 


ROLL  44  :    iii   to  v 


Due.  Paid.  Balanr, 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  g 

iii  FARM  OF  THE  BURGH. 

iii  [Burgesses  of]  Bedford                     40   o   o  bl.  38    2    0  bl. 

a.  to  Thos.  venator ,  2lim  5s.  yd. 
[blanched]    2  3  3  bl. 

b.  [surplus  from]  last  year    8 

c.  surplus  to  credit  of  the  Bur- 
gesses   5  11  bl. 

iv  INCREMENT  AND  BALANCE. 

5.  [Osbert  s.  of  Ric.]  debt  for  hawks 

[as  in  43/iv/5]    [800]        2  13    4  5   6  S 

15.  [Simon  de  Bello  Campo]  for  4 
hawks  for  increment  of  the  past 

year    400  [400] 

17.  [Simon  de  Bello  Campo]  for  the 

old  farm  [from  42/i]    7    2    9  no.  [7    2  900* 

i8n.  Sh.,  for  increment  of  Bucks  [this 

year]    10   o   o        10   0  0 

MEMBRANE  1  DORSO. 

ign.  Sh.,  for  4  hawks  for  increment  of 

this  year    413   4         4  13  4 

V  PURPRESTURES  AND  ESCHEATS. 

i.  Sh.,  for  Half  Hundred  of  Stan- 

brigg'    200  200 

3.  Sh.,  for  land  of  Lambricht    40  4  0* 

4.  Will.  s.  of  Ric,  for  meadow  of 
Aclai,  the  8th  year  8s.  4d.,  the 

past  year  8s.  4d.,  this  year  8s.  4d.      1    $    o  15^ 

IX.  Will.  s.  of  Ric,  for  increment  of 
Bruhull'  for  land  of  Will,  de 
Roche? ,  the  Sth  year  2li.,  the  past 

year  2li.,  this  year  2li   600  600 

12.  Sh.,  from  Rog.  de  Sancto  Manueio 
for  land  which  was  of  Robt.  le 

Scot  in  Aillesbir'    «;    o  5  0* 

13.  Sh.,  farm  of  the  land  of  Will.  Pict' 

in  Aillesbir'    10  10* 

21.  Sh.,  for  old  farm  of  Svaneburn' 

[as  43/V/21]   ;   i-3    5  1    3  5 

Vi  ARREARS. 

6.  Villate    of    Luiton',    for  murder 

[1185]    168  168 

9.  Jordan  de  Hameleden  clericus,  for 

default  [1191]    33   6    8  33   ^  S 


*  By  3  tallies,  10s. 


ROLL  44  :    vii  B   to   vii  O 


135 


,„  PLIAS  B£EORE  JUSTICES  IN  EYKE. 

ritB    7-  Wife  of  Ansgot,  for  custody  of  his 
son  and  land   

*iiC     2.  Gilo  de  Pinkenni,  for  waste   

»;iK    3.  Will.  Wischard  [as  37/viiK/3]  ••• 

rii  L    6.  Adam     de     Champaine  [as 

37/viiL/6]   

vii.M   '5-  Sh.,  from  frankpledge   of  Turkill 
de  Camelton  [as  39/VUM/15]   

24.  Will.     de     Kingeshull'  [as 
39/viiM/24]   

viiN   10.  Sh.,  from  Will.  Basset  of  Draiton 
[as  43/viiN/io]   

12.  Ralf  de  Burstrod  [as  43/viiN/i2] 

viiO  1.  Sh..    for    Dusteberga    Hund.,  for 
murder   


Sh.  for  chattels  of  Baldw.  de  Wad- 
don   


Sh.  from  tithing  of  Will.  Whiting 
[as  42/viiO/4]   

Tithing  of  Will.  Carbonarius  [as 
42/viiO/7]   

Sh.  for  Burneham  Hund.  for 
murder   

Tithing  of  Robt.  de  la  Hulle  [as 
42/viiO/Q]   

10.  Sh.  for  Erleie  Hund.,  for  murder 

11.  Sh.  for  Stokes  Hund.,  for  murder 

12.  John  de  Wilies,  for  false  present- 
ment   

13.  Sh.,  for  Will,  de  Louent'  for  false 
presentment   

17.  Sh.  for  Bunestou  Hund.,  for  mur- 
der   

18.  Sh.,  for  Walt,  del  Herst,  for  with- 


drawal   

iq.  Mulesho  Hund.,  for  murder 
21. 
22. 
23. 


Walt.  s.  of  Will.,  for  disseisin   

Bukelaw'  Hund.,  for  murder   

Sh.  for  Mannesheued  Hund.,  for 
murder   

25.  Clifton  Hund.,  for  concealment  ... 

26.  [B]ikesla\ve  Hund.,  for  murder  ... 

27.  Sh.,    for    Whicstan'    Hund.,  for 
concealment   

T  By   throe   tallies,    including    ixC  ^  below,  2li. 
+  See  note  t  on  following  page. 


Due. 

Paid. 

Balance. 

11.  S. 

j 
a. 

li.  s. 

d. 

li.    s.  d. 

5  *3 

4 

8 

0 

5    5  4 

10 

0 

10 

0 

2  10 

8 

0 

2    7  8 

.5 

S 

0 

2  8 

3 

4 

3 

4t 

6 

8 

1 

S 

5  0 

3 

4 

3 

4t 

6 

8 

4  8 

1  0 

0 

100 

2 

0 

2 

OX 

8 

8+ 

4 

1 1 

2 

0 

2  11 

1.3 

4 

*3  4 

10 

10 

15 

0 

1S  0 

7 

0 

7  0 

1 1 

4 

0 

0 

4  8 

3 

4 

3 

10 

0 

10  0 

1 

8 

1 

8: 

10 

0 

10  0 

6 

s 

2 

0 

c 

4  8 

/ 

0 

2 

Q 
O 

4  4 

10 

0 

10  0 

9 

0 

2 

O 

7  0 

1 1 

0 

2 

O 

9  0 

8 

0 

8  0 

136 


ROLL  44  :    ,ii  0/28—68 


viiO  28.  Sh.,  for  Vallate  of  Pullokeshull'  [as 
42/viiO/^S]  

2Q.  Sh.  for  Sfoddene  Hund.,  for  mur- 
der  ■    

33.  Tithine;    of    Rcbt     Blundus  [as 
42/vnO/33   

34.  Sh.,  tor  tithing  of  Aluric  Bai  [as 
42/viiO/34]   

35.  Salomon  mercatur,  for  default  ... 

36.  Tithing  of  RiJl  s.   of  Will,  [a^ 
42/^0/36]   

37.  39,  41,  42.  [See  viiO/98  below] 

43.  Sh.,  for  villate  of  Heddesore  [as 
42/viiO/43]   

44.  Villate     of      Creendon  [as 
42/viiO/44]   

45.  Sh.,  for  escape  of  Miles  Morel  ... 

46.  Sh.,  for  tithing  of  Thos.  Pese  [as 
42/viiO/461   

47.  [Tithing  of]  Pet.  de  Litlecot'  [as 
42/viiO/47]   

48.  49.  [See  viiO/98]. 

50.  Sh.,  for  tithing  of  Edric  de  Upton 
[as  42/viiO/5o]   

cji.  Sh.,  for  tithing  of  Hamming  del 
Slo  [as  42/viiO/5i]   

52.  [See  viiO/98]. 

53.  Sh.,     for     villate    of     Eure  [as 
42/viiO/53]   

54.  Tithing  of  Will.  s.  of  Stephen  [as 
42/viiO/s4]   

$5.  Hugh  de  Dena,  for  disseisin   

c8.  Matilda  de  Wica,  for  disseisin  ... 

59.  Sh.,  for  Robt.  de  Mara   

60.  Eust.   s.  of  Roger,  for  pledge  of 
Alan   

62.  Sh,,    from    Rog.    de    Leham  for 
disseisin   

65.  Tithing      of     John     Tirel  [as 
42/viiO/65]   

66.  Sh.,  for  Will,  de  Eueresholt,  for 
concealment   

67.  Tithing  of  Gilht.    de  Herdewich 
[as  42/'viiO/67]   

68.  Tithing     of     Rog.     Buche  [as 
42/viiO/68]   


Due.  Paid.  Balanr- 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  >i 

2  0  2  o 
:  1  o                                           II  r, 

6  8             18               5  0 

6  8             6  8t 

6  8              34  34 

6  8                                6  8 

6  8             6  8t 

13  4                                    13  4 

3  0  30 

6  8             6  8t 

6  8             30              3  S 

6  8             6  8: 

6  8             6  8: 

100  100: 

6  8                               6  8 

100  100 

6  8                              6  8 

3  4             3  4: 

6  8                                6  ? 

22  2  2: 

6  8             36              3  3 

6  8             6  8: 

6  8                               6  B 

6  8              10             S  * 


t  By  14  tallies,  jli.  19s.  iod. 


ROLL  44  :   vii  O,   vii  P  137 

Due.               Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d. 

*\iO  69.  Tithing     of     Robt.     Bunde  [as 

42/viiO/6g]                                           6    8             i    6  52 

70.  Tithing  of  Will,    prepositus  [as 

42/viiO/7o]    6    8  18  50 

73.  Tithing  cf  Norman  de  Sultrop  [as 

42/viiO/73]    6    8  20  48 

74.  [Tithing  of]  Walt.  s.  of  Hugh  [as 

42/viiO/74]    6    8  10  58 

7$.  Tithing     of     Will.     Bouet  [as 

42/VUO/75]    6    8  5    6  12 

76.  Robt.  s.  of  Ralf,  for  false  claim  ...  6    8  6  8 

79.  Ric.  s.  of  Guy  [as  42/viiO/79]  ...  6    8  6  8 

80.  [Samson]  de  Presteleia,    for  false 

claim    6    8         0    0  0 

a.  Gift  to  Brethr.  of  Hosf.  of 
Jerusalem  by  liberty  of  charter  6  8 

St.  Ralf  de  Stanbrigge  for  false  claim  6    8  6  8 

$%.  Sh.  for  Adam  Duke,  for  purpres- 

ture    6    8  6  8+ 

84.  Warner  s.  of  Ralf,  for  withdrawal  6    8  6  8 

85.  Adam  bro.  of  Walt,  tinctor,  for  the 

same    6    8  6  8 

86.  Thos.  de  Ponte,  for  the  same    6    8  6  8 

98.  Sh.  for  the  chattels  of  fugitives 

Simon  [from  viiO/42]    6    8  6  8* 

Hamo  de  Halton  [from  viiO/37]  80  8  0* 

Robt  le  Taner  [from  viiO/39]  ...  8  8* 

Turbern  [from  viiO/41]    60  6  0* 

Herbt.       of      Riseberge  [from 

viiO/49]    70  7  0* 

Robt.  Deth  [from  viiO/48]    12    o  12  0* 

Walt.  Blundus  [from  viiO/52]           1  .5    7  15  7* 

Vii  P  BEFORE    GEOFFREY    FITZ    PETER  AND 

HUGH   DE   NEVILLE  :    FOREST  PLEAS. 

in.  Sh.,  for  amercements  of  men  and 
vills,  whose  names  and  debts  arid 
cause  of  debt  are  noted  in  the  Roll 
which  the  aforesaid  [Justices]  have 

delivered  into  the  Treasury    24  13    4        24  13  4t 

2n.  Urueius    Malet,    for    having  a 

greyhound  contrary  to  the  Assise         13   4  6    8  6  8 

3n.  Hen.  molendinarius    because  he 

dwelt  in  prohibited  forest    13    4  6    8  6  S 

4n.  Will.  Andeg[auensis],  for  tres- 
pass of  the  assize    200  200 


n.  New  entry, 
t  By  36  tallies,  24I1.  13s.  4d. 


158 


ROLL  44  :    vii  P 


vii  P  511.  Robt.  Malduit  and  Hugh  molen- 
dinarius,  for  chattels  of  Robert  a 
runaway.  By  the  hand  of  Robt. 
Malduit  15s,,  and  the  balance  is 
against  Hugh   

6n.  Eust.  de  Greinuill  and  Osbt. 
propositus  and  Pet.  de  Wutton', 
for  trespass  of  agistment,  whereof 
2s.  2d.  by  the  hand  of  Osbt  

7n.  Villate  of  Thame,  for  estreated 
pledge   

8n.  Will.  s.  of  Nigel,  lor  ill  guarding 
of  his  servant   

gn.  Robt.  Poer  in  Berton,  for  old 
waste   

ion.  Vill  of  Torinton  of  Bern,  de 
sancto  Walerico  for  the  same   

1  in.  Hen.  de  Clinton,  for  trespass  of 
the  assise   

i2n.  Margar'  de  Taiden,  for  the  same 

i^n.  Villate  of  Grendon,  for  the  same 

14H.  Frankpledge  of  Robt.  Dol,  for  es- 
cape of  the  said  Robt  

i/jn.  Hugh  s.  of  Toli,  for  escape  of 
Rog.  his  bro  

i6n.  Frankpledge  of  Lowis  s.  of  Goda, 
for  escape  of  Sim.  s.  of  Alueua  ... 

i7n.  Sh.,  for  small  items  of  the  forest, 
whereof  he  has  the  particulars  ... 

a.  -paid  by  Robt.  Malduit 
for   himself  and   his  men 

in   the   vill  of   Hamsla-pe  6    g  6 

b.  -paid    by   the  Sheriffs 

hand    812 


14  10  8 

i8n.  -  -  -  of  Bittlesden  for  essarting 
2\  acres   

ign.  -  -  -  for  essarting  4  acres   

2on.  [Godfrey  de  Stjandone  for  essart- 
ing his  pasture  in  Lillingestane  ... 

2in.  -  -  -  de  Belmunt,  amercement  for 
greyhounds  which  he  had  contrary 
to  the  assise   


n.  New 


Due.  Paid.  BaL-  • 

li.    s.  d.         li.    s.  d.       li.  <. 

1    4  o  15    o  9 

6  S  22  4 

200  2    o  ( 

6  8  6  I 

6  8  6  5 

6  S  6  ? 

6  8  6  i 

6  8  6  i 

6  8  6  i 

13  4  J3  n 

6  8  6  V 

6  8  M 

28    4  8  000         13  M 


168  168 
13   4  13  4 

200  2  o  < 

368  368 

entry. 


ROLL  -M  :    vlii  A   to   vai  F  139 

Due.  Paid.  Balance. 
Ij.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

Vi  «i  SCUTAGE,   AID,   AND  TALLAGE. 

vui  A     i.  Robt.  de  Albsneio                            99c  990 

3.  Sim.  de  Waliull'   ,                 it;    o  15  o 

via  B    1.  Will,  de  Windlesor                              4  10  10  4  10  10 

2.  Will.  Malduit                                        17    6  17  6 

S.  Hamo  s.  of  Hamc                            3    o   o  3    o  o 

9.  Hen.  de  Pinkenni  i6h.,  but  it  is 
discovered  (depieh-in?-im)  that  he 
answers  thereof  in  the  Roll  foi 
Bucks,  for  the  3rd  year  and  is 
there  quit,  and  is  not  tc  be  sum- 
moned further  in  respsct  thereof 

viii  C  1.  Sim.  de  Bello  Campc  for  scutage, 
to  be  required  ct  the  Sheriff  of 
Surrey  who  has  the  money  as 
Simon  says   

7.  Will,  de  Sciriton   

8.  Herbt.  de  Bolebec   

10.  Hen.  de  Pinkenni   

11.  Sh.,  for  scutage  of  John  de  Bidun 
[as  41/viiiC/n]   

viii  D     1.  Hugh  de  Cahaignes   

5.  Will,  de  Sciriton   

6.  Herbt.   de  Bolebec   

7.  Hen.  de  Pinkenni   

8.  Sh.,  for  scutage  of  John  de  Bidun 
10.  Advocate  of  Betun   

12.  Hamo  de  Girunde  

viii  E     1.  Pet.  de  Suriua   

2.  Robt.  s.  of  Roger   

4.  Will,  de  Sciriton   

5.  Sh.,  scutage  of  fee  of  John  de 
Bidun  

6.  Hamo  de  Girunde   

9.  Will,  de  Windr'  

v»i  F    9.  Sh.,  from  villate  of  Wicumb'   

10.  Sh.,  from  lands  of  Bledelawe   

11.  Sh.,  from  lands  of  Santresdon  ... 

12.  Villate  of  BruhulP   

13.  Villate  of  Hocton   


16 

0 

16 

0 

7 

0 

7 

0 

6 

8 

6 

s 

I 

10 

0 

1 

111 

0 

A 

c 

D 

0 

A 

*t 

c 

J 

0 

*3 

4 

16 

2 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

I 

0 

0 

I 

0 

0 

4 

10 

0 

4 

10 

0 

4 

7 

0 

4 

7 

0 

1 1 

0 

1 1 

0 

2 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

10 

0 

10 

0 

4 

0 

4 

0 

2 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

6 

IO 

0 

6 

1 0 

0 

2 

O 

0 

2 

0 

0 

9 

1 

8 

9 

1 

8 

5 

0 

0 

5 

0 

0: 

1 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0: 

6 

8 

6 

8: 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

10 

0 

1 

10 

0 

X  By  3  tallies,  61i.  6s.  Sd. 


140 


ROLL  44  :    viii  G   to  ix  F 


Viii  G  TALLAGES  BEFORE  W.   BRIE  WERE  AND 

HIS  FELLOWS. 


Due.  Paid.  Bahr.  - 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  ,. 


in.  Vill  of  AiUesberia    1800  18    0  0 

za.  -  -  -  of  Wicumb'    4    o   o  4   o  j 

3n.  ViU  of  Olneia    3  13    4  3  13  4 

411.  -  -  -  of  Fernedisch    13    4  13  4 

IX  PROMISES,  OFFERINGS,  AND  FINES. 

ixA    8.  Will,    de   Stodham    [as  4o/ixA/8]    10    o    o  10   o  c 

10.  Gilbt.    de    Maperteshale  [as 

36/ixA/io]    13    6    8  13   6  S 

14.  Robt.  s.  of  Ralf  s.  of  Bernard 
i61i.  13s.  4d.,  to  have  {right}  a 
record  as  in  the  Roll  for  the  8th 
year,  but  as  he  could  not  have  the 
said  record,  it  is  considered  by  the 
Barons  that  he  ought  not  to  be 
summoned  therefore  [compare 
36/ixA/i4]. 

24n.  The  same  Robert,  that  he  may 
not  be  summoned  for  the  above 

promise    200  200 

23.  Walt.     de     Windlesor'  [as 

37/ixA/23J    34  18  11  34  18  n 

ix  B    i-  Roger  seruiens  de  Querendon,  ar- 
rears of  his  fine    6  13  10  13    4  60  6 

6.  Robt.  s.  of  Robt.  de  Albeneio,  for 

his  relief    69  13    4  69  1 3  4 

ixC     «>•  Sh.,   for   Walt,   de   Stiueclea  [as 

39/ixC/s]    1  13   4         1  13  4* 

ixD     1  •  Simon  Basset  [as  40/ixD/i]    600  600 

3.  Ric.  Spiguruel  [as  4o/ixD/3]    200  100          1    o  ( 

5.  Hen.  de  Pinkenni  [as  4o/ixD/5]  5    o    o  2  14    o          2    6  ■• 

ix  E    3-  Regin.  s.  of  Ascur  [as  4i/ixE/3]  100  too 

8.  Robt.  de  Hersin  [as  41/ixE/S]  ...  500  50  o 

11.  Hugh  Peuerell  [as  41/ixE/n]  ...  6    8  0  8 

12.  Hugh  de  Alnou  [as  4i/ixE/i2]  ...  34  3  4 

ix  F    2-  Will.  s.  of  Ralf  [as  42/LXF/2]  ...         13    4  34  10  < 

3.  Hugh  de  Saleford  [as  42/1XF/3!]     168  i    6  8 

5.  Will.  s.  of  Ordric  [as  42/ixF/5]     200  2   o  * 

6.  Samson     de     la     Pomeraie  [as 

43/ixF/6]  in  two  payments    13    6    8        10    o    o  3    6  = 

7.  Will,  de  Hulmo  [as  43/ixF/7]  ...         13    4  x3  4 


Xew  entr}'.  *  By  same  tallies  as  viiM/15,  viiN/ v 


ROLL  44  :   ix  G,   ix  H 


141 


Due. 
li.    s.  d. 


ixG  FINES  AND   SCUTAGES,  II96. 

[Honour  of  Wallingford.'] 

1.  Will,  de  Vesci    13  4 

2.  Will.   Pipard,  in  2  payments  by 

hand  of  Walt.  Pipard    10    o  o 

5.  Hen.  de  Whitefeld    13  4 

6.  Will,  de  Heddesorn'    200 

7.  Ralf  de  Harpenden'    300 

10.  Ruelent  Huscarl,  4IL,  but  it  is  re- 
corded by  the  Barons  that  he  is 
no  more  to  be  summoned  therefor, 
because  it  is  included  [below, 
ixG/30]  in  the  fine  of  12  marks 

11.  Thos.  de  Borecfeld    6  8 

16.  Will,  de  Druual    6  8 

19.  John  de  Wica    10  o 

22.  Fulk  s.  of  Richard    1  10  o 

24.  Walt.  Croc    400 

30.  Ruelent  Huscarl    800 

33.  Ralf  Foliot   '   3    o  o 


37.  Robt.  de  Cestreton    300 

38.  Herbt.  de  Bolebec    200 

39.  Hugh  de  Bello  Campo    500 

41.  Ralf  s.  of  Geoffrey    4    o  o 

44,  45.  Hen.  de  Clinton  [as  43/ixG/44, 

4.S]    .^00 

47.  Hugh  de  Haueresham    1  13  4 

ix  H     2-  Prior  and  Convent  of  Merton  [as 

42/ixH/2  of  1196]    13  4 

4.  Nicholas   Malherbe   [as  43/ixH/4 

of   1 197]    6  13  4 

5.  Emma  de  Peri   [as  43/ixH/5  of 

1 197]    26  13  4 

6n.  [An]nora  de  sancto  Walerico, 
to  have  seisin  of  the  land  which 
was  of  Walt,  de  Westberi  in  West- 
beri  and  Clenefeld    6  13  4 

7n.  Will.  s.  of  Hamo  for  fine  of  the 

land  which  was  of  his  bro   66  13  4 

8n.  Asccline  wid.  of  Hen.  Pirun,  that 
she  may  not  be  married  against 
her  will,  and  if  she  marry  to  do 
so  with  the  Kg.'s  leave    3    6  S 


Paid.  Balance, 
li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  d. 

13  4 

10   0  0 

13  4 

13    4  168 
300 


6  8 
6  8 
10  o 
1  10  o 

4  0  0 
8   0  0 

5  0  0 

300 
200 
500 
400 

168  113  4 

1  13  4 

6   8  6  8 

13   4  600 

19   6   8  768 

6  13  4 

66  13  4 

3   6  8 


n.  New  entry. 


142 


ROLL  44  :    ix  H  to  x  C 


Due.  Paid.  Balance 

li.    s.  d.  li.    s.  d.       li.    s.  £ 

ixH    gal  [A]licia    wid.    of    Ruelenc  de 

Anuers,  for  the  same    6  13   4  6  13  4 

ion.  [A]mabe!  who  was  m.  of  Hsmo, 

for  the  same   6  13    4  6  13  4 

1  in.  [Rlobert   de  Pinkenni,  to  have 

seisin  of  his  land  whereof  he  was 

disseised  because  he  was  not  found 

in  his  constabulary    $    o    o  9    o  411  0 

i2n.  Will,  de  Brocton'  and  Robt.  de 
Pinkenni  to  have  such  seisin  [as 
had  Robt.  de  Sifrewast]  of  §rds. 
of  a  kt.'s  fee  in  the  vi  11  of  Cestres- 

ham   40    o    o        20   o    o         20   o  o 

13'n.  Godfrey  s.  of  MarsiJP  to  have 
right  of  a  kt.'s  fee  against  Nich. 

his  bro   368  3    6  $ 

i4n.  [Gilo]  de  Pinkenni  to  have  a 
writ  of  novel  disseisin  against 
Will,  de  Engelford  at  Westmins- 
ter   168  .  168 

it;n.  [Albreda]  de  JarpunuilP,  for  fine 

of  her  serjeanty    5    o    o  5    0  0 

i6n.  -  -  -  de  Trailli,  for  permission  net 

to  be  married   3    6    8         3    6  8 

i7n.  [Philippa]  de  Belchamp,  for  the 

same    6  13    4  6  13  4 

i8n.  [Hen.]  de  Nonant  to  have  his 
lawful  share  of  the  inheritance  of 

his  wife    200    o   o  200  o  o 

ign.  [Will.]  de  Albenni,  to  have 
Agatha  Trussebut  to  wife  with  her 

inheritance    400    o    o       106  13    4       293    6  8 

X  JUDAISM. 

xA     3-  Hen.  de  Clinton  [as  41/XA/3]  ...200  200 

4.  Earl  Simon  on  Pornewic  and 
Bludeie,  by  pledge  of  Will. 
Mauduit,  Ralf  Morin,  and  Simon 

the  Earl's  bro   50    00  50  o 

xB   1-3.  The  Jews  named  in  the  preceding 

R^U  [as  37/XB/1-3]    240  24° 

xC     *■  Ursell  de  Gipewiz  [and  others,  as 

3S/XC/1]    33    18  33    1  1 

2.  Walder  de  Wicumb'  [as  38/XC/2]  6    8  6  8 

3.  Hugh  de  Girunde  [as  38/XC/3]  in 

2  payments    200  200 

n.  New  entry. 


ROLL  44  :    xli  A,  xiii  143 

Due.  Paid.  Balance, 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.      li.    s.  d. 

1 1 1  MANORS   SEPARATELY  SUMMONED. 

ftj.i  A  BRILL. 

Account  of  Will.    s.    of    Ric.  for 
Bruhull  :— 

1-3.  The  farm  for  several  years  past    11    o    6  bl.  11    o    6  bl. 

5.  The  same  for  the  7th  year    20   o   o  bl.    16    5  0 

a.  To  Robt.  s.  of  Fulcher  3    o  10 

b.  To  Brethr.  of  Hos-p.  of 
Whitsand    300 

c.  To  works  on  houses  in 
BruhulV  by  Kg.'s  writ  ...311  4 

[total,      qli.      12s.  2d., 
blanched  as]    q    2  6 

d.  Surplus    5    7  6 

6.  The  same  for  the  past  year  20   o    o  bl.     000  8  19  4 

a,      b.  To     fixed  alms, 

6U.  os.  zod.  [blanched  as]  5  13  2 

d.  Surflus    [as    xiiA  /jd. 

above]   5    7    6  bl. 

11    o  8 

7.  The  same  for  this  year    20    o    o  20   o  o 

xiii  SPECIAL  ACCOUNTS   OF  ESCHEATS  (on 

Sheriff's  Roll). 
liitH        bucks. ,  Arrears  of  1196. 

1.  Will,  de  ste.  Mere  Egl.,  farm  of 

Olneia  for  the  8th  year    8  17    o  8  17  0 

22.  Earl  Aubrey,  for  crops  of  Cestres- 
ham    600 

23.  Earl  Aubrey,  for  crops  of  White- 

chierch    11  6  8 

both  for  the  8th.  year,  to  be  de- 
manded in  Essex. 

3-iii  J         beds.,  Arrears  of  119G. 

6.  Will,  de  ste.  Mere  Egl.,  farm  of 
Henewich  [rectius  Fernedish]  for 

the  8th  year    10  10 

11.  The  same  for  farm  of  Stiuiton  for 

the  8th  year    10    o    o        10    0  0 

xiiiM         BUCKS. ,  nqS. 

f.  I  Sim.  de  Bello  Campo,  30H.,  farm 
of  Olneia  for  past  year  ]  Steph. 
de  Turneham,  farm  of  Olneia  of 
the  Advocate  of  Betun  but  he  an- 
swers in  the  Escheat  Roll    33  no  33  TI  0 


144 


ROLL  44  :    xlii  M,   xiii  N 


Due.  Paid.  Bahr. 

li.    s.  d.        li.    s.  d.       li.  s. 

xiii  M  4.  Sh.  for  farm  of  Eduluesberga  of 
Will.  Blundus,  for  which  Steph.  de 
Turneham  must  answer  as  the  Sh. 

says    5    o    o  50 

13.  Sh.  for  farm  of  {  Westberi  } 
Tornebiri  of  Ralf  Morin  in  [rec- 
tius  without]  stocking,  paid  by  the 

hand  of  Will,  de  Bukingham    q    8  9  8 

17.  R.  Archd.  of  Ely,  farm  of  Eston' 

which  was  of  Will,  de  Clinton  ...    20    o    o        10    0  0 

a.  to  Guy  de  Vou  for  the  said  farm 
by  writ  of  Archbf.  of  Canterbury 
10  o  o 

23.  Geoff,  fitz  Peter,  assessed  rent  of 
Whitecherch  of  the  fee  of  Bolebech 

for  the  past  year    13  12    3        13  12  3 

27.  Geoff,  fitz  Peter,  farm  of  Sciriton     400  400 

xiiiN        beds.  ,  1 198. 

2.  Sh.,  farm  of  Harewude    of  Ralf 

Morin,  for  half  year    c;    o    o  5    0  0 

a.  Steph.  de  Turneham  for  same 
farm  for  a  half  year,  but  he  an- 
swers in  Escheat  Roll    500  50 

5.  Sh.,  farm  of  Henewich    4    o  4  0 

6.  Sh.,  for  the  hide  which  was  of 
Hatecrist  in  Fernedicsh,  debt  on 

past  year  is.,  for  this  year  ili.  6s.      170  1    7  Ot 

7.  Sh.,  farm  of  Wrastlingewrda  for  * 
year,  before  it  was  given  to  Ralf 

de  Ardenn'    3    5    0  3    5  0 

q.  Sim.  de  Bello  Campo,  land  of  Ralf 

Morin  in  Rauenesden    100  000 

a.  Gift  to  said  Simon  by  Kg.'s 
writ    1    o  o 

11.  Sim.  de  Bello  Campo,  31H.  10s.. 
farm  of  Stiuiton  remaining  from 
previous  year,  which  is  to  be  re- 
quired' of  Steph.  de  Turneham  as 
Simon  savs,  but  Will,  de  Sciriton 
answers  therefore  in  the  Escheat 
Roll. 


t  By  2  tallies,  ili.  ;s. 


INTRODUCTION    TO  NOTES 


US 


NOTES. 

Introduction. — While  the  administration  and  institutions 
of  the  xijth  century  have  received  careful  study  by  competent 
authorities,  the  manorial  and  family  histories  of  this  obscure 
period  have  been  comparatively  neglected.  An  adequate  anno- 
tation of  our  Rolls  in  these  fields  would  involve  years  of  close 
work.  Such  notes  as  we  have  dared  to  print  are  offered  merely 
as  a  framework,  into  which  details  of  the  men  and  history  of 
the  two  Shires  in  the  xijth  century,  till  now  most  superficially 
handled  by  even  the  best  County  Histories,  can  be  built  as 
knowledge  grows.  Of  the  smaller  men  who  appear  as  amerced 
for  minor  offences,  probably  nothing  will  ever  be  known;  of 
the  more  important  folk,  some  come  into  the  Shires  for  a  few 
years  only  as  second  husbands  of  a  well-dowered  widow,  or 
as  guardians  of  the  land  and  heir  of  some  squire;  these  puzzling 
cases  presently  disappear,  leaving  no  permanent  trace.  But 
in  many  other  cases  we  believe  that  we  have  been  able  to  add 
somewhat  to  the  knowledge  of  manorial  history,  and  to  the 
connection  between  various  families  of  this  difficult  period ;  the 
Notes,  however,  do  not  profess  to  carry  family  and  manorial 
history  past  the  period  covered  by  our  Rolls,  except  when  later 
references  are  needed  to  elucidate  the  earlier  records. 

Much  help  has  been  obtained  from  Mr.  Flower's  unpub- 
lished edition  of  the  earlier  Curia  Regis  Rolls,  and  from  its 
courteous  editor.  On  the  other  hand,  we  can  only  regret  that 
the  first  edition  of  Mr.  Farrer's  "  Honours  and  Knights'  Fees," 
which  deals  with  several  local  Honours  (Bidun,  Chokes,  Visde- 
lou,  Wahull)  did  not  appear  until  our  work  was  already  pass- 
ing through  the  press. 

The  Notes  carry  the  same  numbers  and  letters  as  the  entries 
to  which  they  refer,  preceded  by  N  instead  of  the  Roll-number ; 
since  the  entry  sometimes  is  varied  from  year  to  year,  the 
number  of  the  Roll  begins  the  Note  in  (  )  parenthesis,  and 
indicates  the  first  appearance  of  the  entry  in  our  series  of  ten 
years. 

As  reference  is  frequently  made  to  '  Honours,'  and  es- 
pecially to  the  Honour  of  Wallingford,  a  brief  note  on  the 
subject  may  be  useful  to  some  readers.1    In  its  original  sense 

i.  See  Pollock  and  Maitland  :  Hist.  Engl.  Law,  from  which  the  quota- 
tions below  are  taken. 


146 


INTRODUCTION    TO  NOTES 


the  term  Honour  seems  to  have  been  used  to  cover  the  whole 
extent  of  a  large  group  of  manors,  with  which  the  Conqueror 
had  rewarded  (honoured)  a  noble  who  had  helped  him  to  his 
conquest;  it  connoted  (what  we  should  call  to-day)  his  estate, 
and  was  usually  known  by  the  name,  not  of  its  holder,  but 
of  the  caput  honoris  or  chief  manor;  as,  for  example,  the 
Honours  of  Creadon  in  Bucks,  and  of  Wahull  (Odell)  in  Beds. 
"  Now  to  describe  the  wide  lands  held  of  the  king  by  one  of 
his  great  tenants  in  chief,  the  terms  4  honour  '  and  '  barony  ' 
were  used.  Between  these  two  terms  we  can  draw  no  hard 
line ;  '  honour  •  seems  to  be  reserved  for  the  very  largest  com- 
plexes of  land,  and  perhaps  we  may  say  that  every  honour 
was  deemed  a  barony,  while  not  every  barony  was  usually 
called  an  honour;  but  this  seems  a  matter  settled  by  fashion 
rather  than  by  law  ";  and  even  at  an  early  date  the  terms  seem 
to  be  used  rather  loosely.  A  Baron  was  merely  one  who  held 
his  lands  '  in  chief,'  held  directly  from  the  Crown,  in  contrast 
to  his  knights  who  held  manors  as  his  undertenants  by  military 
and  other  services.  Yet  a  third  word  is  sometimes  used  to 
describe  an  estate;  a  small  hereditary  group  of  manors  which 
had  not  formed  an  original  Honour  was  sometimes  termed  a 
Fief  (feodum),  as  for  example  the  Fiefs  of  Trailli  in  Beds,  and 
of  Say  in  Bucks.  "  When  however  a  certain  territory  had 
become  recognised  as  a  barony  or  honour,  this  name  stuck  to 
it  through  all  its  fortunes.  Honours  and  baronies  were  very 
apt  to  fall  into  the  hands  of  the  king  by  way  of  forfeiture 
or  escheat  owing  to  the  tenant's  treason  [or  the  failure  of  heirs]. 
When  this  happened  they  still  kept  their  names;  the  honour 
of  Wallingford  might  have  escheated  to  the  king,  but  it  was 
still  the  honour  of  Wallingford  and  did  not  lose  its  identity 
in  the  general  mass  of  royal  rights.  Nor  was  this  a  mere 
matter  of  words.  In  the  first  place,  the  escheated  honour  would 
probably  come  out  of  the  king's  hands;  the  general  expecta- 
tion was  that  the  king  would  not  long  keep  it  to  himself,  but 
would  restore  it  to  the  heir  of  the  former  tenant,  or  use  it  for 
the  endowment  of  some  new  family,  or  make  it  an  appanage 
for  a  cadet  for  the  royal  house."  "  An  honour  or  barony  is 
thus  regarded  as  a  mass  of  lands  which  from  of  old  have  been 
held  by  a  single  title,"  and  the  title  seems  to  have  been  that 
which  was  given  by  Domesday  Book. 

The  value  to  us  to-day  of  these  Honours  and  Baronies 
is  the  help  which  they  give  in  tracing  the  descent  of  difficult 
manors  and  in  identifying  men  and  places.  The  Honour  of 
Wallingfoid,  the  most  prominent  on  our  Rolls,  comprise  d 
about  ioo  knights'  fees  which  lay  chiefly  in  Berks.  Oxon.  and 


NOTES  :    oi,  I 


147 


Bucks.,  and  was  sometimes  accounted  under  Wycombe  on 
the  Bucks.  Rolls.  It  was  based  on  two  Domesday  Honours, 
those  of  Miles  Crispin  and  Robert  de  Oilli.  Administered  in 
Stephen's  reign  by  Brian  fitz  Count,  the  illegitimate  son  of 
Count  Alan  Fergan  of  Brittany  who  had  married  Matilda  the 
heiress  of  the  Honour,  it  was  afterwards  retained  long  in  the 
hands  of  the  Crown. 


oi 

(40)  In  the  course  of  1 194/5  Will.  Ruffus,  who  had  then  been 
Sheriff  for  about  4I-  years  and  almost  continuously  since  11 80, 
went  out  of  office.  A  summary  of  his  Account  precedes  the 
Account  of  the  new  Sheriff  and  has  been  numbered  oi.  Unfor- 
tunately parts  of  it  are  illegible,  but  by  calculation  backwards 
from  the  known  farm  it  has  been  possible  to  make  up  a  joint 
account  of  himself  and  his  successor  in  office.  This  half  account 
would  have  been  more  logically  placed  under  £  iv.  Increment 
and  Balance,'  where  the  scribe  actually  set  it  next  year 
(41/iv/n,  12);  in  the  following  year  he  again  placed  it  before 
the  current  Farm,  but  we  have  there  restored  to  its  proper  place 
(42/iv/u,  12). 

The  interesting  reversal,  by  which  moneys  bianco  are 
reckoned  to  the  Sheriff's  credit  numero,  is  worth  noting.  This 
can  be  done  to-day  by  multiplying  bianco  by  1.0526;  but  it 
would  be  interesting  to  know  how  the  Calculator  achieved  it 
before  the  invention  of  decimals. 

i 

(35)-  Oger  son  of  Oger  had  now  been  Sheriff  for  i|  years. 
His  father  Oger  was  dapifer  to  Henry  II  and  was  Sheriff  of 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk  from  1163  to  1170,  but  has  only  been 
traced  in  1 166  as  holding  one  fee  de  novo  in  Devon  from 
Richard  de  Luci,2  whose  charter  he  attested  about  the  same 
time;3  he  was  on  Eyre  1 169/70.  Oger  son  of  Oger  was  among 
the  Justices  at  Westminster  and  elsewhere  before  whom  fines 
were  levied4  towards  the  end  of  Richard's  reign,  and  was  on 
Eyre  in  Devon  in  1 196.  He  and  his  brother  Michael  married 
respectively  Ami  a  and  Sara,  the  daughters  of  William  de 
Schelflega  (Shelley,  co.  Essex),5  and  this  debt  was  consequently 
demanded  also  in  Essex.0 


2.  Liber  Rubeus,  352. 

3.  Cal.  Doc.  France,  50;. 

4.  Hunter's  Fines,  i,  p.  lxiii. 

5.  P.R.S.,  xxiii,  94;  xxxi,  115. 

6.  Pipe  Roll  43,  num.  5  ;  Ess.  Herts 


148 


NOTE:  i 


(36-40)  William  Rufms,  sheriff  of  Devon  1 176/7,  was  Sheriff 
of  Bucks,  and  Beds,,  for  3  years  (ii3o  to  1 187)  and  again  for 
4*  years  (1 190/1  to  1194).  Ke  appears  to  have  been  attached 
to  the  household  of  the  young  prince  Henry  fitz  Henry,7  who 
was  crowned  in  his  father's  lifetime  but  never  reigned;  since 
William  sometimes  attests  as  Steward  or  Dapifer,8  he  may 
have  held  thac  office  in  the  prince's  household,  but  docs  not 
appear  to  have  been  Dapifer  Regis.  He  acted  as  Justice  in 
Eyre  for  many  counties,  at  least  from  1 177  to  1192,  and  is 
known  to  have  sat  in  the  Curia  Regis  at  Westminster  among 
the  Justices  there;9  he  attested  the  will  of  Henry  II.10  The 
only  land  which  he  has  been  noticed  to  hold  was  a  quarter  fee 
of  the  Earl  of  Arundel  in  Sussex  in  1166,11  and  in  that  county 
he  seems  to  have  met  his  death,  for  in  1 195/6  the  Sheriff 
accounts  for  40s.  laid  on  the  Hundred  of  Redderbrug  for 
"  concealment  of  those  charged  with  the  death  of  William 
Ruff  us." 12  But  he  appears  also  to  have  held  in  Cambs.  or 
Hunts.,  for  the  debts  which  he  incurred  in  our  shrievalty  are 
gradually  paid  off  in  those  counties.13 

(40-43).  Simon  II  de  Beauchamp,  Baron  of  Bedford,  Sheriff 
from  1 194  to  1 197,  held  the  largest  Bedfordshire  barony, 
assessed  at  more  than  45  fees.14 

It  is  not  without  political  interest  to  estimate  something 
of  the  value  of  such  a  Baron  to  the  King  as  a  source  of  revenue ; 
and  it  must  be  remembeied  that,  while  Simon  was  a  great  man 
in  this  neighbourhood,  his  estates  were  insignificant  when  com- 
pared with  those  of  some  baronies.  He  is  charged  on  our 
Rolls  with  the  following  sums  in  eight  years :  — 


li. 

s. 

d. 

1 190. 

for  scutage  of  Army  of  Wales 

22 

17 

10 

quit  1 1 96 

1 194. 

for 

aid  for  Richard's  ransom 

45 

?5 

8 

,,  ngS 

1 104. 

for 

exemption  from  service 

13 

6 

8 

,>  1 194 

"95- 

for 

scutage  and  exemption 

66 

4 

„  1 196 
by  writ 

1  196. 

for 

scutage  of  3rd  Norman  Army 

1197. 

for 

returning  from  the  Army 

26 

*3 

4 

»  "97 

1 190. 

for 

Bedford  Castle 

100 

0 

0 

„  1 190 

1 194. 

for 

,  lands  at  Bedford 

13 

6 

8 

»  "97 

1 194. 

for 

shrievalty 

i33 

6 

8 

»  "95 

422 

0 

2 

7.  Eyton  :  Itin.  Hen.  II,  145,  168. 

8.  Rymer  :  Feed.,  i,  40. 

9.  Eyton  :  Itin.  Hen.  II,  298. 

10.  Rymer  :  Foed.,  i,  47 

11.  Lib.  Rub.,  202. 

12.  P.R.,  7  Ric.  I,  Sussex. 

13.  P'.R.  43,  mem.  6;  4^,  mem.  12;  46,  mem.  12;  47,  mem.  0. 

14.  Yor  an  account  of  this  family,  see  B.H.R.S.,  i,  1-25. 


NOTES  :    i   to   ii  C/2 


149 


and,  except  perhaps  for  the  3rd  Norman  Army  in  which  he 
appears  to  have  served  in  person,  all  the  sums  seem  to  have 
been  paid.  Roughly  speaking,  the  total  would  not  be  far 
short  of  £8,500  at  the  values  of  1914. 

(44)  Robert  de  Braibroc,  whose  name  seems  originally  to  have 
been  Robert  Mey,  drew  his  more  usual  style  from  Braybrooke 
co.  Northants.,  and  was  ancestor  of  the.  well  known  families 
of  Braybrook,  Ledet,  and  (on  the  distaff  side)  of  Latimer. 
His  connection  with  our  shires  seems  to  come  with  his  purchase 
of  Sutton  from  Wiscard  Ledet,  and  his  descendants  acquired 
Potton  Cadbury  and  other  lands  in  Beds.15 

Of  two  contemporaries  bearing  the  name  of  William  de 
Albini,  our  Sheriff  was  undoubtedly  the  head  of  the  great  house 
of  Albini  £  Brito,'  which  had  acquired  the  Honour  of  Bel  voir 
co.  Leics.  by  marriage  with  the  granddaughter  and  heiress  of 
Robert  de  Todeni,  its  holder  in  1086. 16  This  is  shown  by  his 
Offering  for  marriage  with  Albreda  Trussebut  being  debited 
against  him  in  our  Shires  (44/ixH/ 19),  rather  than  his  home 
county  of  Leics.  or  hers  of  Yorks.  The  Honour  of  Belvoir 
included  lands  in  both  Beds,  and  Bucks.17 

ii  A/1 

(35).  One  or  two  marks  were  charged  on  most  counties  as  Alms 
to  the  Templars.  In  1 156  these  are  described  as  '  newly  fixed  ' 
(nouiter  constitute),18  a  phrase  which  in  the  Pipe  Rolls  usually 
means  the  first  year  of  the  grant  in  that  form. 

ii  A/2 

(35).  The  Brethren  received  id.  daily.  For  the  Hospital  see 
N/11D/3. 

ii  C/l 

(35).  His  pension  of  2d.  daily  is  first  recorded  in  11 70  as  a 
new  grant.  In  11 30  he  was  paying  off  fines  for  his  father's 
land  and  office,  for  his  daughter's  dower,  and  for  a  plea  about 
a  weir  on  the  Thames,  all  on  the  Berkshire  Pipe  Roll.19  In 
some  early  entries  his  father  appears  as  Fulko. 

ii  C/2 

(35).  A  valtrarius  is  a  keeper  of  greyhounds,  a  latinisation  of 
Fr.  veautrier  (Eng.  fewterer).2^  His  pension  or  wage  of  i\d. 
daily  was  later  assigned  to  another  huntsman,  paid  by  the 

15.  B.H.R.S.,  v,  248. 

16.  Hist.  MSS.  Comm.,  Rutland  iv. 

17.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  257;  V.C.H.,  Beds.,  i,  247/8. 

18.  P.R.,  2  Hen.  II,  Rec.  Com.  passim. 

19.  P.R.  1130  (R.C.)  122. 


150 


NOTES  :    ii  C  3,   ii  D 


Burgesses  of  Bedford,  and  deducted  from  their  farm  (37/iiia). 
Biland  had  enjoyed  his  pension  only  since  1 186. 21 

ii  C/3 

(36).  By  his  name  of  Ironfoot,  it  is  possible  that  John  was  a 
maimed  soldier,  receiving  id.  daily.  But  a  family  of  Pedefcr 
appears  among  the  benefactors  to  Bitlesden  Abbey,22  and  a 
Will.  Pedefer  is  amerced  in  1 199. 23 

ii  D 

Eyton  was  apparently  of  the  opinion  that  the  '  Lands  Granted  ' 
shown  in  the  Sheriff's  Account  were  not  actually  put  into  the 
possession  of  the  grantee;  but  that  the  Sheriff  continued  to 
farm  the  estate,  .and  paid  over  in  cash  to  the  grantee  the  named 
sum  at  which  the  lands  were  valued ;  such  sum  being-  then 
deducted  from  his  debit  on  the  Farm  of  the  County.24  But 
several  of  our  cases  conflict  with  this  idea.  The  phrases  in 
the  Dunstable  Annals  certainly  seem  to  imply  possession  of 
the  actual  land  recorded  in  iiD/4;  "  eodem  anno  [1200]  resti- 
tuit  nobis  Rex  totum  dominicum  de  Hoctona  cum  fructibus  " ; 
"  anno  mccvj  ....  spoliati  sumus  terra  nostra  de  Hoctuna.,,2s 
There  is  no  doubt  whatever  from  numerous  documents  that  the 
Abbey  of  Fontevrault  (iiD/5)  held  the  actual  manor  of  Grove 
in  Leighton  Buzzard,  not  merely  the  enjoyment  of  a  sum 
charged  upon  it.  In  the  case  of  Wendover  and  Eaton  Bray 
(iiD/10)  we  have  the  actual  charter  of  assignment  to  Faramus 
of  Boulogne,  which  sets  out  their  extent  and  value.26  The 
family  de  Gournai  were  so  often  escheated  for  rebellion  that  it 
is  difficult  to  trace  the  exact  history  of  Houghton  Regis 
(iiD/11),  but  there  is  no  doubt  that  at  intervals  they  held  the 
actual  manor,  not  a  mere  charge  on  its  revenues.  Again,  the 
charter  by  which  Baldwin  de  Bethune  received  Luton  and  two 
other  manors  (see  iiD/12)  expressly  states  that  the  grant  is  made 
for  so  many  pounds  "  to  be  rendered  at  our  Exchequer  of  St. 
Michael  "  ;  the  Exchequer  was  no  loser  by  terre  date,  the  money 
was  paid  by  the  gTantee;  and  there  was  also  the  service  ot 
a  knight  due  from  each  of  the  three  manors.  These  instances 
are  enough  to  show  that  Eyton's  idea  is  not  universally  ap- 


20.  N.E.D.  under  Fewterer ;  Round:  King's  Serjeants,  269;  Turner: 
Selden  Sac.,  xiii,  151. 

21.  P.R.S.,  xxxvi,  20. 

22.  Bitlesden  Cartul.  ;  B.M.  Had.  4714,  ff.  62,  84,  85-88. 

23.  Rot.  Cur.  Reg.,  i,  351. 

24.  Salt  Coll.  Hist.  Staffs,,  ii,  77. 

25.  Ann.  Mon.  (R.S.  36),  iii,  2S,  29. 

26.  Cal.  Chart.  (R.S.'),  ii,  34. 


NOTES  :   *  D/i  to  u  D/3 


151 


plicable;  indeed  we  take  leave  to  doubt  whether  it  has  any 
basis  in  fact.  At  the  same  time  there  is  little  doubt  that  the 
lands,  thus  granted  by  royal  favour,  were  not  granted  abso- 
lutely in  hereditary  fee  simple,  although  Baldwin's  charter  just 
quoted  reads  as  if  they  were;  indeed  his  tenure  of  Green's 
Norton,  co.  Northants.  is  actually  described  as  a  '  farm  of 
Norton.'27  While  in  some  cases  they  do  (doubtfully)  appear 
to  have  been  transmitted  by  inheritance,  in  others  they  seem 
to  have  reverted  to  the  Crown  on  the  death  of  the  grantee; 
for  example,  the  frequent  re-grants  of  Luton  made  after  the 
death  of  Baldwin  de  Bethime  (36/110/12),  although  made  in 
some  cases  to  his  descendants,  show  that  the  manor  was  not 
held  by  him  in  fee  simple;  for  example  Fawkes  de  Breaute 
received  it  in  12 16. 28 

There  is  no  doubt,  however,  that  with  lapse  of  years  these 
terre  date  came  to  be  regarded  as  permanent  hereditary  grants. 
When  the  King  attempted  to  claim  Baldwin's  two  other  manors 
(Wantage  and  Green's  Norton)  as  escheats  in  1237,  the  Crown 
lawyers  based  the  claim  on  their  having  been  forfeited  lands 
of  a  Fleming;  they  did  not  plead,  and  perhaps  were  ignorant 
of,  their  D.B.  and  pre-Conquest  status.  Eventually  it  was 
held  that  they  should  not  be  regarded  as  escheats,  because 
Baldwin's  nephew  and  heir,  Robert  advocate  of  Bethune,  was 
in  the  peace  of  the  King  who  had  accepted  his  homage.29 

ii  D/l 

(35).  This  grant  was  originally  enrolled  as  '  Fixed  Alms,'30 
then  as  '  Fixed  Alms  in  a  Mill,'31  and  finally  transferred  to 
'  Lands  Granted  :  in  a  Mill  of  Leighton  '  ;32  the  value  of  the. 
grant  being  constant. 

ii  D/2 

(35).  Granted  in  1 156. 33 

ii  D/3 

(35).  This  is  the  Hospital  of  Santingfeld  by  Wissant  in  Nor- 
mandy, where  Henry  II  stayed  in  January,  11 56;  on  reaching 
St.  Omer,  he  assigned  these  lands  to  the  Hospital  by  charter.31 

27.  P.R.  41,  mem.  8,  Northants. 

28.  Rot.  Litt.  Pat.  (R.C.),  i,  199b. 

29.  Bracton  :  Note  Book,  iii,  233/4. 

30.  P.R.,  2  Hen.  II,  Rec.  Com.,  21. 

31.  P.R.,  4  Hen.  II,  Rec.  Com.,  139. 

32.  P.R.S.,  viii,  22. 

33.  Eyton  :  Itin.  Hen.  II,  16;  and  P.R.  2  Hen.  II,  R.C.  21. 

34.  Eyton  :  Itin.  Hen.  II,  16;  Men.  Angl.,  vi,  639;  B.H.R.S.,  v,  106,  107. 


152 


NOTES  :    ii  D/4  to  ii  D/8 


ii  D/4 

(35).  Granted  between  11 56  and  11 58. 35  The  grant  was  re- 
voked in  1 189  when  the  manor  was  granted  to  Hugh  de  Gournai 
but  the  Annals  of  Dunstable  throw  no  light  on  the  reason  for 
this;  it  was  renewed  in  1203,  again  revoked  in  1206.  In 
1 21 2  the  Canons  were  (<  put  in  possession  publicly  by  the 
King's  bailiff,"  but  were  immediately  despoiled  by  the  knight -> 
of  Hugh  de  Gournai;  a  suit  which  they  instituted  for  restitu- 
tion was  stopped  by  the  outbreak  of  the  Barons'  War.36 

The  recorded  facts  of  the  case  show  clearly  (N/iiD/11)  that 
so  long  as  the  de  Gournai  of  the  day  remained  loyal,  the 
tenure  of  Houghton  Regis  was  regarded  by  successive  kings 
as  the  right  of  his  family;  when  he  returned  to  fealty,  it  was 
again  bestowed  on  him.  Dunstable  Priory  received  merely  a 
compassionate  allowance  in  the  manor  during  periods  when 
his  lands  were  forfeit  (1 1 56  to  1190,  1203  to  1206);  in  two 
years  of  forfeiture  (1194-1196)  the  Priory  did  not  receive  even 
this.  Yet  the  Chronicler,  recording  the  deaths  of  Hugh  IV  de 
Gournai  and  his  nephew  Hugh  de  Boves  with  scarcely  concealed 
satisfaction,  dares  to  speak  of  the  injuries  which  Dunstable 
had  received  at  their  hands,  and  affords  yet  another  instance 
of  the  warped  and  unreliable  estimates  furnished  by  monastic 
chronicles. 

ii  D/5,  6 

(3$).  The  first  record  of  the  grant  in  Leighton  and  Radnage 
to  the  Nuns  of  Fontevrault  (de  fonte  Ebroldi)  was  made  in 
1 164, 37  when  5 li .  12s.  8d.  were  expended  in  stocking  the 
manor.38 

ii  D/8 

(35).  That  this  is  Holme  in  Biggleswade  seems  to  be  shown 
by  fines  of  1208/939  and  of  1210/u,40  which  record  Wischard 
Ledet  (apparently  son  of  this  tenant)  and  Margery  [Foliot  ] 
his  wife  as  holding  in  Sutton  Holme  and  Stratton.  This  hide 
appears  to  have  reverted  to  the  Crown  at  a  later  date.  The 
Wischard  of  this  entry  was  dead  by  1 198,  when  his  widow 
Cristiania  and  her  son  Robert  sued  for  lands  in  Norfolk.41 


35.  P.R.  (R.C.)  of  those  years. 

36.  Ann.  Mon.  (R.S.  36),  iii,  28,  29,  38. 

37.  Round:  Cal.  Doc.  France,  p.  377;  Mon.  Angl.,  vi,  10S5. 

38.  P.R.S.,  vii,  30. 

39.  Warden  Cart...  f.  33. 

40.  B.H.R.S.,  vi,  41,  no.  171. 

41.  Curia  Reg.  Roils,  (U.S.),  i,  51. 


NOTES  :   iiD/9  to  ii  D/ll 


153 


ii  D/9 

(35).  Though  he  appears  later  as  Roger  Follutrarius,  and  even 
as  Roger  le  (de)  Follutrier  (R.41),  he  was  an  Otter-hunter 
called  Foil,  still  a  local  name.  By  a  charter  of  about  1 1 7 5 , 
Henry  II  granted  to  him  this  land  in  Aylesbury  and  the  office 
of  Otterer,  to  be  held  by  the  service  of  finding  litter  for  the 
King's  bed,  and  straw  (in  winter)  or  grass  (in  summer)  for 
decking  his  chamber,  thrice  in  a  year;  and  of  providing  two 
geese  or  three  eels  at  each  of  the  King's  three  visits.  Later 
charters  of  this  land  have  been  preserved;  it  became  styled 
Otterarsfee  and  was  held  by  the  same  service  so  late  as  the 
reign  of  Henry  VII,  but  had  by  then  become  dissociated  from 
the  mastership  of  the  royal  otter  hounds.42 

ii  D/10 

(35).  Ingram  (Enguerrand)  de  Fiennes  succeeded  to  Wendover 
and  Eaton  Bray  in  1 183/4;  ne  was  son  in  law  °£  the  former 
grantee,  Faramus  of  Boulogne,43  and  was  killed  on  Crusade 
at  the  siege  of  Acre  in  1 191. 44 

ii  D/ll 

(35).  Gournai  sur  Epte,  in  the  Pays  de  Bray,  lay  on  the  con- 
fines of  Normandy  and  France.  The  family  which  drew  its 
name  from  that  town  occupied  a  difficult  position  as  Lords 
Marcher,  in  consequence  of  which  they  were  apt  to  transfer 
their  allegiance  or  themselves  to  be  transferred  from  the  one 
homage  to  the  other  in  times  of  stress.  Neglecting  the  some- 
what shadowy  pre-Conquest  Gournais,  we  may  begin  with 

Hugh  I  de  Gournai,  tenant  in  chief  in  10S6  of  three  manors 
in  Essex;45  the  family  also  acquired  manors  in  Norfolk,  with 
Caistor  as  the  head  of  their  English  barony,  but  with  these 
lands  we  are  not  here  concerned.  Hugh  and  his  wife  Basile, 
(daughter  of  Gerard  Flaitel  and  sister  of  Ermengarde  wife 
of  the  first  Walter  Giffard  of  Buckingham46)  were  benefactors 
of  the  Abbey  of  Bee,47  and,  attracted  by  the  saintly  Anselm 
then  Abbot,  retired  there  to  finish  their  days  in  peace;  prob- 
ably soon  after  10S2,  the  date  at  which  Hugh  ceases  to  be 
fcund  in  the  attestations  of  charters.  St.  Anselm  when  Arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury  (consecrated  1093)  sent  them  affectionate 
greetings,  and  a  letter  from  him  to  Basile  lias  been  preserved.1"* 

42.  Cal.  Pat.  (R.S.),  1377-8,  176;  Round:  King's  Serjeants,  299-300. 

43.  P.R.S.,  xxxiii,  112:  B.H.R.S.,  v,  211,  212. 

44.  Rog.  de  Hoveden  (R.S.  51),  iii,  SS. 

45.  D.B.,  ii,  89b. 

46.  Will,  de  Jumieges  in  Bouquet,  xi,  5S. 

47.  Neustria  Pia,  47S. 

48.  Misrne :  Patrologia,  clviii,  1177/8:  clix,  170/1. 


154 


NOTE    ii  D/H   (DE  GOURNAI) 


Gerard  c!e  Gournai  succeeded  his  father;  he  stood  by  Wil- 
liam Rufus  against  Duke  Robert  in  1090,  and,  on  the  recon- 
ciliation between  the  royal  brothers  in  1091,  his  allegiance  and 
castles49  were  transferred  to  Robert.  He  accompanied  the 
Duke  on  Crusade  in  1096,  and  was  with  Bohemond  in  the 
advance  from  Nice  m  Bithynia,  Then  he  disappears  from 
record,  and  presumably  died  abroad,  either  on  Crusade  or  on 
a  later  pilgrimage.-"1'  His  wife  was  Edith  daughter  of  William 
de  Warenne  Earl  of  Surrey.  As  Hugh  is  from  now  the 
dominant  name  m  the  family  for  125  years,  it  is  not  always 
possible  to  separate  certainly  those  who  bore  it. 

Hugh  II  de  Goumai  seems  to  have  been  a  minor  at  his 
father's  death,  and  his  lands  for  a  time  were  administered 
by  his  step-father,  Dreux  de  Monceux,  who  had  also  sailed 
on  the  First  Crusade.  Hugh  was  brought  up  by  Henry  I 
as  if  he  had  been  his  own  son,  taught  the  use  of  arms,  granted 
his  hereditary  lands,  and  given  a  place  among  the  magnate^ 
of  the  realm.  But  he  revolted  against  his  benefactor  at  the 
outset  of  his  career,  and  in  1118  joined  in  the  attempt  to  place 
on  the  Norman  throne  William,  Duke  Robert's  exiled  son.61 
In  his  extenuation  may  be  urged  that  the  Gournai  allegiance 
had  been  formally  transferred  to  Duke  Robert  30  years  before. 
During  the  troubles  of  Normandy  at  this  time,  Hugh  had 
betrothed  his  sister  Gundred  to  Nigel  de  Albini52  at  the  King's 
advice.  Leaving  the  wee]  ding-feast,  he  seized  the  castle  of 
Plessis,  joined  the  rebels,  and  provisioned  his  own  three  castles : 
collecting  a  band  of  reckless  partisans,  he  ravaged  Norman 
territory  from  the  sea  to  the  Seine.  When  Henry  had  crushed 
this  revolt  by  the  victory  at  Noyon  (Bremule)  in  1 1 19,  Hugh 
submitted  and  was  pardoned.53  He  married  a  sister  of  Rodolfe 
de  Perron,  probably  the  Beatrice  mentioned  in  a  charter  to 
St.  Sauveur.34 

The  next  records  appear  to  deal  with  a  new  generation, 
and  are  therefore  here  assigned  to  Hugh  III  de  Gournay,  who 
on  the  death  of  Henry  I  in  1 1 3 5  was  appointed  formally  a 
Lord  Marcher  to  guard  the  Norman  frontier  in  the  interregnum. 
When  Stephen  crossed  to  Normandy  to  attack  Geoffrey  01 
Anjou  in  1 137,  the  Norman  barons  resented  the  favour  which 
he  showed  to  his  Flemish  auxiliaries;  the  theft  of  a  skin  01 

49.  Gournai,  la  Ferte  en  Brai,  Caille  fontainc. 

50.  Orderic  :  ed.  Forester,  ii,  474,  510;  iii,  80,  89;  ed.  Provost,  iii. 
319,  322,  366,  4S4 ;  Will.  Jumieges,  lib.  viii,  chap.  viii. 

51.  Orderic  :  ed.  Prevent,  iv,  315-317. 

52.  B.H.R.S.,  4*o.  i,  96 

53.  Orderic:  ed.  For.,  iii,  452,  453;  iv,  20;  ed.  Prevost,  iv,  31 7  3- 1  •  39*' 
-4.  Gurney  :  House  cf  Gournay,  123/4. 


NOTE   iiD/11  (DE  GOURNAI) 


155 


wine  by  a  Fleming  from  a  squire  of  Hugh  de  Gournai  brought 
the  ill-feeling  to  a  head;  a  riot  followed,  and  under  Hugh's 
leadership  most  of  the  Normans  abandoned  Stephen's  camp 
and  cause;  the  King  was  thus  forced  to  conclude  a.  peace  with 
Geoffrey.  (At  this  time  Hugh  is  described  as  one  of  the 
"  hot-brained  young  seigneurs,"  which  seems  to  mark  him  as 
of  another  generation  than  Hugh  II ;  and,  further,  the  date 
of  his  death  seems  impossibly  late  for  the  latter).  In  1 144 
Geoffrey's  turn  came;  he  invaded  Normandy  and  forced  Hugh 
to  surrender  his  castle  of  Lions  de  Foret.55  In  Stephen's  later 
years  Hugh  was  on  his  side,  and  received  a  grant  of  the  valu- 
able royal  manors  of  Wendover  co.  Bucks,  and  Houghton 
Regis  co.  Beds.56  In  1 152  however,  when  the  young  Henry 
(our  future  King  Henry  II)  warred  against  the  King  of  France, 
Hugh  refused  to  do  the  service  due  to  him  as  Duke  of  Nor- 
mandy, and  maintained  his  enemies  at  Gournai ;  in  return, 
Henry  seized  and  burnt  Hugh's  castle  of  La  Ferte.  Not 
satisfied  with  this,  on  his  accession  to  the  throne,57  he  stripped 
Hugh  of  his  two  royal  manors,  made  a  grant  in  Houghton  to 
Dunstable  Priory  between  11 56  and  11 58, 58  and  bestowed  Wen- 
dover and  Eaton  Bray  on  Faramus  of  Boulogne  in  11 57. 59 
Hugh  however  retained  his  Norman  lands,  which  appear  later 
as  12  knights'  fees  with  the  marcher  knights,60  and  he  is  found 
in  the  Duchy  in  attendance  on  the  King  and  attesting  his 
charters.  When  the  King's  eldest  son  Henry  fitz  Henry  re- 
volted against  his  father  in  1 173,  Hugh  and  his  son  were  cap- 
tured in  their  castle  with  a  number  of  knights  "  not  so  much 
by  the  enemy's  valour  as  by  craft."61  They  stood  however  by 
their  King,  and  were  shortly  afterwards  freed,  for  Hugh  at- 
tested a  charter  at  Caen  at  Christmas;  the  younger  Hugh  was 
rewarded  by  a  grant  of  50H.  in  Houghton  and  other  manors, 
but  apparently  for  that  year  only.62  Hugh  III  seems  to  have 
died  about  1178;  no  record  of  his  wife  has  been  noticed. 

Hugh  IV  de  Gournai  appears  on  the  Rolls  in  1 179  as 

55.  Orderic:  ed.  For.,  iv,  151,  178;  Robt.  of  Torigni  (R.S.  82)  iv,  132, 

149. 

56.  Abbrev.  Placit.,  79. 

57.  The  story  in  Abbrev.  Plac.  would  place  this  in  ii59>  DU*  that  it 
took  place  before  Michs.  11 55  seems  clear  from  the  Pipe  Roll  of  11 56  (Rec. 
Com.),  24.  The  anomalous  '  Goulana  fencana  '  of  the  Abb.  PI.  seems  to  be 
meant  for  Goislena  Fontana  or  La  Gaillefontaine,  which  was  Gurnai  land. 

58.  Pipe  Roll  1 1 58  (Rec.  Com.)  139.  The  reader  is  warned  against  the 
appalling  misinterpretation  of  the  Pipe  Rolls  in  V.C.H.,  Beds.,  iii,  390b. 

59.  Lib.  Rub.,  ii,  6S3.    For  Faramus,  see  B.H.R.S.,  v,  211,  212. 

60.  Lib.  Rub.,  628. 

61.  Rog.  Wendover  (R.S.  84).  i,  93;  Ralf  de  Diceto  (R.S.  68),  i,  369. 

62.  P.R.S.,  xix,  70. 


156 


NOTE    iiD/11   (DE  GOURNAI) 


debtor  for  1  relief  '  in  iooli.  on  succeeding-  to  his  father's  Eng- 
lish lands  in  Norfolk;  he  paid  this  sum  at  the  Norman  Ex- 
chequer in  1186.63  In  1190  he  received  a  grant  of  Houghton 
Regis,  valued  to  the  Exchequer  at  40I1. ;  and  in  the  next  year 
accompanied  King  Richard  on  the  Third  Crusade.  At  the 
capture  and  partition  of  Acre,  he  commanded  the  100  knights 
told  off  to  guard  the  English  quarter  of  the  town.64  In  the 
temporary  treaties  patched  up  between  France  and  England 
on  Richard's  return,  he  was  left  free  to  choose  his  allegiance 
between  them,  and  elected  for  Normandy  and  England.  It 
is  however  recorded  that  under  stress  he  swung  over  temporarily 
to  Philip's  side  in  1 193, 65  and  consequently  we  find  Houghton 
Regis  and  Bledlow  as  farmed  by  others  in  Rolls  40-42  (1194- 
1196).  In  1202  the  manor  of  Wendover  was  assigned  to  him 
by  King  John,  saving  to  the  widow  of  Ingram  de  Fienncs 
the  crops  of  the  year.00  But  there  was  little  peace  on  the 
Marches,  and  in  the  same  year  King  Philip  opened  the  war 
which  finally  severed  Normandy  from  England ;  he  attacked 
the  frontier  fortress  of  Gournai,  ancf  by  cutting  a  dam  flooded 
its  defenders  out;  Hugh,  who  saw  his  castles  seized,  disgusted 
like  other  Normans  by  John's  impotence  to  help  his  friends, 
definitely  joined  the  French  side  and  surrendered  to  Philip 
the  castle  of  Montfort  entrusted  to  him.67  His  English  lands 
were  naturally  forfeited,  Wendover  being  granted  to  Ralf  de 
Tilleio.68  But  his  sympathies  were  English  rather  than 
French;  in  1206  he  was  pardoned  at  the  instance  of  Otho  the 
Emperor,  permitted  to  return  to  England  with  his  wife  and 
sons,  and  entered  the  King's  service.69  He  received  grants 
of  land,  among  which  were  Kingshill  co.  Bucks.,  Wendover 
where  he  had  license  to  hold  a  three  day's  fair,  and  Houghton 
Regis  as  appears  from  a  plaint  of  Dunstable  Priory.  In  12 14 
he  was  Sheriff  of  Bucks,  and  Beds.,  but  'f  at  the  instance  and 
petition  of  our  beloved  and  faithful  Hugh  de  Gournai,  feeling 
himself  to  be  weighed  down  by  sickness  "  the  King  accepted 
the  homage  of  Gerald  his  heir  and  first-born  for  all  the  land 
which  was  of  his  inheritance;70  he  seems  to  have  shortly  after 
died  in  Poitou,  and  the  Dunstable  Chronicle,  always  bitter 
about  the  loss  of  Houghton,  adds  that  he  died  "  after  donning 

63.  P.R.S.,  xxviii,  7;  xxxvi,  60. 

64.  Rog.  Hovedea  (R.S.  51),  iii,  122. 

65.  Rog.  Wendover  (R.S.  84),  i,  230. 

66.  Rot.  Liberate  etc.  (R.C.)  32. 

67.  Gesta  Phil.  Aug.  in  Bouquet,  xvii,  76;  Flor.  Wigorn.,  E.H.S., 
ii,  165. 

68.  Rot.  Liberate  etc.  (R.C),  415. 
6q.  Rot.  Lit.  Pat.,  R.C,  i,  57. 
70.  Rot.  Lit.  Claus.,  i,  172b. 


NOTE    iiD/1?  (DE  BETHUNE) 


157 


the  garb  of  a  Templar  arid  discarding  it  by  apostasv,"71 
which  probably  merely  means  that  he  had  intended  to'  join 
the  Crusade  which  was  projected  about  this  time.  He  married 
Millicent  daughter  of  Thomas  de  Maria,  with  whom  he  founded 
the  Abbey  of  Gailkfontaine.72 

The  impression  of  repeated  disloyalty  which  the  family 
history  at  first  suggests  is  softened  by  closer  consideration ; 
they  stood  always  by  Normandy,  when  possible  by  England. 
But  they  were  between  the  upper  and  the  nether  millstone,  and 
exposed  to  constant  duress  in  the  seizure  of  their  castles  and 
lands  by  the  French.  Their  real  sympathies  are  shown  by 
their  electing  to  be  English  at  the  final  severance  of  Normandy 
about  1206. 

ii  D/12 

(36)  Baldwin  de  Bethune,  son  of  Robert,  came  of  the  family 
of  the  lords  of  Arras  and  Bethune,  who  were  hereditary  Ad- 
vocates of  the  Abbey  of  St.  Vaast  and  called  Advocates  of 
Arras  or  of  Bethune  indifferently.  This  title  of  Advocate 
(Avoue,  a  purely  French  office  which  never  rooted  in  England) 
was  held  by  laymen  who  had  received  from  a  monastery  certain 
rights  over  its  lands  and  a  third  of  the  profits  of  justice  thereon  ; 
in  return  they  defended  the  monastery  at  the  Assise  of  the 
Comte,  administered  justice  to  its  vassals,  and  led  them  in 
war.73  Baldwin  accompanied  Coeur  de  Lyon  on  his  return 
from  the  Holy  Land  in  1 192,  but  was  not  with  him  when  he 
was  captured,  and  was  permitted  by  the  Emperor  to  return 
home.  In  1 193  Baldwin,  with  William  Briwerre  and  the 
Bishops  of  Bath  and  Ely  (Hubert  Walter)  arranged  the  terms 
of  Richard's  ransom  in  a  great  conference  at  Worms;  on  the 
King's  release  he  remained  in  Almain  as  a  hostage  for  some 
time.74  In  1190  as  our  P.R.  shows  (not  after  their  return 
from  Crusade,  as  Cobbe  says),  Richard  granted  to  him  the 
manors  of  Luton  co.  Beds.,  Wantage  co.  Berks.,  and  Gram's 
Norton  co.  Northants.,  all  three  of  which  were  royal  demesne 
atD.B. 

After  1 195  he  married,  as  her  third  husband,  Haweise 
daughter  and  coheiress  of  William  le  Gros,  Count  of  Auma-te, 
and  was  styled  Count  of  Aumale  in  her  right.  Also  through 
her,  as  the  gt.  gt.  gd.  daughter  of  Robert  de  Roumelli,  he 

71.  Ann.  Mon.  (R.S.  36),  iii,  42. 

72.  Mon.  Angl.,  vi  (vii),  1088.  The  date  of  foundation  is  there  wrongly 
given  as  1050  and  assigned  to  the  first  Hugh. 

73.  Rrussel  :  Usage  des  Fiefs,  ii,  7S4  et  seq. 

74.  Rog.  de  Hoveden,  {R.S.  51),  iii,  1S5,  187,  215. 


158 


NOTE    iiD/12  (DE  BETHUNE) 


became  for  life  lord  of  the  honour  of  Skipton  in  Craven  co. 
Yorks.  Cobbe75  states  that  "  the  estimation  of  his  fief  in  the 
Honour  of  Arundel  in  Sussex  amounted  to  £75,"  but  the  P.R. 
which  he  quotes  merely  records  the  payment  to  Baldwin  of 
that  sum,76  and  does  not  necessarily  imply  possession  of  any 
land  in  that  Honour.  According  to  Cobbe,  he  was  further 
"lord  of  Chokes,  in  Yorkshire'';  this  is  really  Chocques 
(Cioches)  near  Bethune  in  the  Pas  de  Calais,  and  it  appears 
that  not  Baldwin,  but  his  elder  brother  William,  the  Advocate 
of  Arras,  succeeded  to  the  Honour  of  Chokes  in  England,77 
that  is,  to  the  Domesday  Honours  of  Gunfrid  and  Sigar  de 
Cioches.  Baldwin  seems,  however,  to  have  been  lord  of 
Chocques  itself,  making  grants  there  to  religious  houses;  and 
was  succeeded  in  that  lordship  by  his  brother,  John  de  Bethune, 
the  Bishop  of  Cambrai.7S 

The  charter  granting  Luton  and  other  manors  to  Baldwin, 
does  not  seem  to  have  been  printed,  and  is  interesting  in 
connection  with  the  question  of  the  status  of  '  Lands  Granted  ' 
already  mentioned;  it  apparently  exists  only  in  a  somewhat 
damaged  transcript,79  which  carries  other  charters  which  relate 
to  Baldwin. 

Carta  Baldewini  Comitis  de  Betuna.  [Ricardus]  dei  gracia  Rex  Anglorum 
Dux  Norm'  Aquitan'  Comes  Andeg'  Archiepiscopis  [etc.]  salutem.  Sciatis 
me  [dedisse  concessisse  et  hac  presenti  carta  mea]  confirmasse  Baldewino 
de  Betuna  pro  homagio  et  seruicio  suo  totum  manerium  de  luitona  .  .  . 
et  totum  manerium  de  Waneting'  .  .  .  et  totum  manerium  de  Norton'  in 
Norhantesir'  .  .  .  [pro  —  —  —  — ]  libris  sterlingorum  reddendis  ad 
scaccarium  nostrum  sancti  Michaelis  Hec  tria  maneria  dedimus  et  con- 
cessimus  et  carta  nostra  confirmauimus  illi  et  heredibus  suis  tenenda  de 
nobis  et  de  heredibus  nostris  libere  et  [quiete  per  seruicium]  trium  miKtum 
pro  omni  seruicio  Quare  volumus  et  nrmiter  precipimus  quod  predictus 
Baldewinus  de  Betona  et  heredes  sui  predicta  tria  maneria  habeant  et 
teneant  de  nobis  et  de  heredibus  nostris  per  prenominatum  seruicium.  Cum 
Saca   [and  other  privileges  and  franchises].    Testibus  :    Comite  Willelmo 

Harundell  Willelmo  de  Willelmo  marescallo  Philippo  de  Columbir' 

Galfrido  Ostorio  Galfrido  de  Lacele  Hugone  Bardulf. 

As  the  allowance  in  R.36  is  for  a  half  year  only,  we  may 
safely  date  the  charter  as  of  1 190.  There  is  apparently  nothing 
in  its  form  to  show  that  the  grant  was  not  absolute,  yet  in 
1 2 16  it  was  cancelled  in  favour  of  Fawkes  de  Breaute;  and  in 
1199  Baldwin  had,  for  some  untraced  reason,  been  disseised 

715.  Hist.  Luton  Church,  Si,  82. 

76.  Pipe  Roll  iiSq,  (R.C.),  213. 

77.  Rot.  Litt.  Pat.,  (R.C.),  i.  7.  Since  the  above  note  was  written. 
Dr.  Farrer  has  dealt  very  fully  with  the  family  and  Honour  of  Chocques  and 
their  successors  in  Honours  and  Knights'  Fees,  i,  20-53. 

78.  Duchesne  :   II  1st.  de  la  Maison  de  Bethune,  52-59. 

79.  Carte  Antique,  EE,  dorso. 


NOTES  :    ii  D/13  to  ii  D/16 


1 59 


of  Luton.80  The  total  sum  due  for  the  three  manors  seems  to 
have  been  146H.  10s.,  being  Soli,  for  Luton,  50I1.  for  Wantage, 
i61i.  ios.  for  Green's  Norton. 

ii  D/13 

(36).  See  N/iii. 

ii  D/14 

(3S).  The  royal  manor  of  Brill  has  been  farmed  up  to  now  by 
the  Sheriff,  and  mutely  included  in  his  indebtedness;  but 
during  the  rest  of  our  period  it  is  farmed  by  William  son  of 
Richard,  and  transferred  to  the  end  of  the  Roll,  appearing 
under  our  heading  xii  of  Manors  summoned  separately  to 
account.  He  farms  with  it  the  meadow  of  Oakley  attached 
to  this  manor,  and  the  increment  (v/4,  v/11);  but  they  remain 
under  Proprestures,  and  were  therefore  probably  derived  from 
some  source  which  was  not  Ancient  Demesne  of  King  Edward. 

ii  D/15 

(40).  Radnage,  hitherto  mutely  included  in  the  Sheriff's  Farm 
except  for  an  alms  (iiD/6),  is  now  lifted  out  of  it  and  assigned 
to  the  Escheator  General.  For  this  we  may  be  grateful;  its 
allowance  on  the  farm  was  inexplicable,  since  it  was  not  even 
royal  land  in  1086,  still  less  Ancient  Demesne;  but  its  appear- 
ance here  has  suggested  its  identity  with  .a  lost  Domesday 
manor.  "  In  Hanechedene  Taedald  held  three  hides  of  the 
Bishop  of  Bayeux.  Now  it  is  at  the  King's  farm  "  ;  this  seems 
to  settle  the  identification.  The  Norman  scribe's  tendency 
to  the  transposition  of  syllables  is  well  known ;  the  name  read 
out  to  the  copyist  was  probably  something  like  '  hradeneche 
(compare  4  hrisbeorgan  '  for  Risborough).  Incidentally, 
'  Hanechedene  '  follows  in  D.B.  directly  after  Saunderton,  a 
village  with  which  Radnage  marches. S1 

(42).  This  item  now  disappears,  and  is  therefore  in  all  prob- 
ability again  mutely  included  in  the  Sheriff's  Farm. 

ii  D/IG 

(42).  The  confusion  into  which  the  enrolments  are  falling  is 
shown  by  the  appearance  of  this  Escheat — hitherto  set  under 
v/12 — on  the  Sheriff's  Farm.  The  scribe  might  plead  in  de- 
fence that  Aylesbury  was  Ancient  Demesne. 

ii  E 

Repairs  to  Gaols.    These  are  allowances  for  moneys  ex- 

80.  Cur.  Re£.  Roll,  R.S.,  i,  7S. 

81.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  236b. 


160 


NOTES  :   ii  E/l   to  ii  E  7 


pended,  and  each  transaction  appears  therefore  but  once. 
Consequently  the  same  item  numbers,  3  for  Bedford  Gaol  and 
4  for  Aylesbury  Gaol,  are  retained  throughout  the  Calendar. 

Conveyance  of  Prisoners.  Here  also  each  transaction  ap- 
pears once  only,  but  receives  a  separate  number  for  convenience 
in  indexing-  proper  names,  etc. 

ii  E/l,  2 

(35).  A  stately  account  of  Richard's  coronation  on  September 
3rd  1 1 89  will  be  found  in  the  chroniclers.82 

ii  E/6 

(39).  Roger  son  of  Reinfrid  or  Renfrey,  Justice  in  Eyre  from 
1 176,  visited  Bucks,  and  Beds,  in  that  capacity  in  1 1 77,  1179, 
1 183,  1 185.  When  King  Richard  went  on  crusade,  Roger  was 
appointed  to  assist  the  Chief  Justiciar  in  the  government  of  the 
realm.  By  Roheise,  widow  of  Gilbert  de  Gand,  he  had  a  son 
Gilbert  mentioned  in  39/iiD / 1 1 ,  who  was  a  favourite  of  King 
John. 

ii  E/6,  8 

(39).  We  shall  probably  not  be  wrong  in  attributing  these  pre- 
parations for  defence  to  the  Justiciar,  as  part  of  his  resistance 
to  Prince  John's  last  attempt  to  make  himself  master  of 
England33  before  Richard's  return.  For  a  description  of  the 
engines,  see  B.H.R.S.,  v,  117. 

ii  E/7 

(39).  Will,  de  Similly,  although  (remarkably  enough)  he  does 
not  appear  among  the  Scutages  of  these  Polls,  held  Ris- 
borough ;  the  manor  had  been  given  to  his  grandfather  Richard 
de  Hommet  (Humez,  Humeto)  the  Constable  of  Normandy, 
and  to  his  father  Enguerrand  de  Hommet,  by  Henry  II.84 
William  himself  adopted  the  place-name  of  his  mother,  Cecilia 
de  Similly,  heiress  of  Semilly  near  St.  Lo35 ;  his  sister  Juliana 
married  a  son  of  Robert  de  St.  Remy  (N/ixE/16).  He  seems 
to  have  died  towards  1224,  when  his  son  Will,  de  Similly  did 
homage  for  his  lands.86  Risborough  was  a  manor  of  Earl 
Harold  before  the  Conquest,  added  by  the  Conqueror  to  the 
royal  demesne;  it  does  therefore  not  appear  among  the  terre 
date. 

82.  Rog.  de  Hoveden,  iii,  9  to  11  ;  Bened.  Peterb.,  ii,  80  to  83. 

83.  For  the  dates,  see  Norgate  :  John  Lackland,  50. 

84.  Bracton  :  Note  Book,  iii,  570;  Stapleton  :  Rot.  Scacc.  Norm.,  ii, 
pp.  lxxxii,  clxxxiii.  Compare  Cur.  Reg.  Roll  95,  mem.  6d ;  and  Assize 
Roll  54,  mem.  9d. 

8^.  Ancestor,  xi,  is6. 

86.  Close  R.  (R.C.)',  i,  582. 


NOTES  :    ii  E/10   to  iii 


161 


ii  E/10,  11 

These  items  for  Houghton  Regis  and  Bledlow,  seized  by 
the  Sheriff  on  the  escheat  of  Hugh  de  Gournai,  belong  properly, 
to  the  Escheat  Roll,  but  are  entered  here  as  being  allowances 
to  the  Sheriff  by  royal  writ. 

ii  E/12 

(43).  Thornton  was  part  of  the  Ivn  barony  which  fell  to  Thomas 
de  St.  Walery,  whose  lands  are  at  the  moment  escheated 
(N/ixG/41). 

ii  F/l,  2 

(37).  These  appear  to  be  the  conveyance  of  prisoners  to  an 
Eyre;  similar  entries  occur  on  later  Rolls. 

ii  F/5 

(39).  Approvers  were  as  a  rule  criminals  who,  to  escape  the 
death  penalty,  undertook  the  judicial  duel  against  others 
accused  of  crime87;  they  were  allowed  id.  daily. 6 s 

ii  F/6 

(39).  The  carriage  of  royal  or  other  treasure  and  of  valuable 
documents  was  in  coffers  or  hutches  (hugie).  Whether  Ursell 
were  dead  or  not,  this  entry  is  probably  connected  with  the 
reorganisation  of  Jewish  finance  already  referred  to  in  §  12 
of  the  Introduction. 

iii 

(36).  A  parallel  case  is  that  of  Cambridge  in  1 184/5, 89  when 
its  Burgesses  paid  300m.  of  silver  and  im.  of  gold,  or  2o61i. 
in  all,  "  that  they  may  have  their  \  ill  at  farm  and  that  the 
Sheriff  meddle  not  therein."  Bedford,  as  a  less  valuable 
burgh,  escaped  more  cheaply  on  payment  of  only  80m.  or 
53b.  6s.  8d.  (36/ixA/ 17).  As  the  Sheriff  no  longer  collects 
the  farm,  it  now  figures  among  the  Allowances  (36/iiD  / 1  ^\ 
The  Burgesses  had  to  be  represented  at  the  Exchequer  by 
attorney  at  the  time  of  the  Sheriff's  Account ;  for  their  failure 
thus  to  appear,  the  farm  of  the  burgh  was  again  taken  into 
the  Sheriff's  hand  in  1285/6  and  the  burgesses  had  to  pay  5m. 
for  their  default,  but  in  spite  of  this  they  were  again  in  default 
in  1289/90. 90  The  liberties  of  Oxford  are  detailed  in  an 
Inspeximus  of  Henry  II.91 


87.  Pollock  and  Maitland,  Hist.  Engl.  Law,  ii,  631. 

88.  Dialogus,  Oxf.  ed.,  127-129. 

89.  P.R.S.,  xxxiv,  60. 

90.  Madox  :  Hist.  Exch.,  i,  245,  247. 

91.  Ogle  :  Royal  Letters  addressed  to  Oxford,  pp.  2-5. 


162 


NOTES  :    iii  to  iv/4 


iii  a 

(37).  This  pension  is  now  transferred  here  with  the  farm  from 
35 /iiC / 2,  and  conferred  on  another  hunter. 

iii  a 

(44).  The  alms  are  here  diminished  by  |d. 

iv 

(35).  At  any  time  the  Farm  of  the  Shire  (as  also  that  of  a 
manor)  might  be  raised,  if  the  money  coming-  to  the  Sheriff 
had  been  increased  by  additional  escheats  or  had  otherwise 
risen  in  value.  This  Increment  (crementum  comitatus)  had 
been  laid  upon  Bucks,  in  116S,92  and  consisted  of  ioli.  in  cash 
and  4  Norwegian  goshawks93  yearly.  The  hawks  were 
apparently  not  paid  over  when  due,  but  were  mewed  by  the 
debtor  for  the  King  against  his  coming  to  hawk  with  them. 
Eventually  however  this  system  was  found  inconvenient,  and 
cash  was  urgently  needed ;  these  debts  were  therefore  commuted 
in  1 197  at  iii.  per  hawk  (43/iv/ter),  apparently  raised  to 
iii.  3s.  4d.  in  the  following  year  (44/1V/19). 

iv/4 

William  son  of  Richard  was  sheriff  of  Bucks,  and  Beds.,  alone 
or  jointly,  from  11 70  to  1179.  He  seems  to  have  held  2 J 
knights'  fees  from  Gilbert  de  Pinkeny  in  1166;94  men  of  his 
name  held  in  many  counties  about  that  time  who  cannot  be 
identified  with  him  without  further  evidence  than  we  have 
found.  In  4i/iv/4  he  is  described  as  son  of  Richd.  de  Cule- 
worde  (Culworth,  co.  Northants.);  and  in  the  Missenden  Car- 
tulary (fo.  i6od)  he  is  himself  styled  William  de  Culewurde. 
The  official  list  of  Sheriffs95  gives  for  the  counties  of  Bucks, 
and  Beds. 

Richard  films  Osberti,  1 1 59,  1160,  1 165,  1 166. 
William  filius  Ricardi  filii  Osberti,  1 169. 
William  filius  Ricardi,  1 1 70,  1 173. 

These,  coupled,  with  the  entry  of    Osbert    son    of  Richard 
(36/1V/5)  and  the  dates  in  our  Conspectus  (Table  IV)  yield 
Osbert 

I 

Ric.  de  Culworth,  Sh.  1161  to  1169 


Osbert  s.  of  Richard  -  Will  s.  of  Rich.  (Will  de  Culworth) 

J   Sh.  1 170  to  1 179 


92.  P.R.S.,  xii,  7. 

93.  Lib.  Rub.,  792. 


04.  Lib.  Rub..  317. 

95.  P.R.O.,  Lists  and  Indexes,  ix,  1. 


NOTES  :    iv/5   to  v/i 


163 


This  descent  is  interesting  as  illustrating  the  tendency  of  the 
Shrievalty  to  become  hereditary  like  the  Norman  Vicomte,  a 
tendency  which  had  occasionally  to  be  checked  by  a  watchful 
King.  Of  the  first  Osbert  we  have  found  no  trace  (though  it 
is  tempting  to  identify  him  with  an  earlier  Sheriff).  Richard 
son  of  Osbert  received  in  1 1 57  from  Henry  II9e  a  little  essart 
of  the  Forest  of  Whittlewood,  lying  in  Leckhamstead  and 
therefore  not  far  from  his  home  manors — "  octo  acras  essar- 
torum  in  Leckarastede  ad  colendum  Et  sint  quiete  de  essartis 
et  non  numerentur  inter  essarta  " — the  last  clause  being  prob- 
ably intended  to  exclude  them  from  the  Proprestures  of  the 
Sheriff's  Account  and  from  Forest  Pleas.  The  family  manor 
of  Brime  in  Culwortb,  at  D.B.  2  4/10  hides,  was  held  with 
Sulgrave  from  the  Pinkeni  family  till  the  reign  of  Edward  I,97 
and  its  owners  appear  occasionally  among  administrators.98 
Our  Sheriff  paid  the  debts  of  his  Shrievalty  in  Northants.''', 

iv/5 

(36).  The  scribe  has  now  transferred  this  entry  from  35/vi/i 
to  its  proper  place  amongst  Arrears.  Osbert  s.  of  Richard 
attests  two  charters  of  Will,  de  Mandeville,  Earl  of  Essex.100 
He  seems  to  have  been  bailiff  or  custos  of  the  Honour  of 
Wallingford  next  year. 

v 

(36).  Many  of  the  Proprestures  and  Escheats  of  Roll  35  (nos. 
5-10,  15-20)  have  now  been  granted  out,  presumably  to  those 
whom  Richard  desired  to  reward.  These  men  do  not  seem  to 
have  been  sufficiently  grateful,  for  several  reappear  on  Roll 
40  as  forfeited  for  adherence  to  Count  John,  but  this  enables 
us  to  trace  the  grantees  in  some  cases  below. 

v/i 

(35).  This  Half  Hundred  (now  merged  in  Manshead  Hundred), 
perhaps  because  it  dovetailed  with  the  Royal  Demesnes,  is  tin- 
only  Hundred  or  Half  Hundred  in  either  Shire  which  was 
retained  in  the  royal  hand;  the  others  had  been  granted  to 
important  tenants  '  for  a  consideration.'  The  value  of  the 
Hundred  lay  in  the  profits  from  its  Court  as  administered  by 

96.  P.R.O.,  Cart.  Ant.  GO,  no.  28. 

97.  Bridges:  Hist.  Northants.,  i,  162,  163;  V.C.H.  Northants.,  i,  344- 

98.  Testa  de  Nevill,  35;  Bk.  of  Fees,  i,  478,  4S4 ;  Foss'  Judges. 

99.  P.R.  43,  mem.  6d ;  45,  mem.  2;  46,  mem.  4;  47,  m.:n.  13;  4S, 
mem.  11. 

100.  Found  :  Geoff,  de  Mandeville,  231  and  note  3. 


i. 


164 


NOTES  :    v/2   to  v/7 


the  Sheriff.  Like  other  '  Proprestures,'  this  does  not  appear 
on  the  Rolls  till  1 165. 101 

v/2 

(35).  This  first  appears  in  11 66  as  a  virgate  paying-  4s.102  It 
is  probably  the  little  serjeanty  for  which  in  1210/ 12  Richard 
Trussel  paid  4s.  at  the  Exchequer.103 

v/3 

(35).  In  1 166  this  entry  makes  its  appearance  for  "  the  chattels 
of  Lambricht,"101  but  next  year  it  is  entered  for  his  land. 

v/4 

(35).  Oakley  by  Brill,  co.  Bucks.  At  its  first  entry  in  1165105 
it  appears  as  pratum  in  Bruhulla,  meadow  in  the  adjacent 
Brill. 

v/5 

(35).  This  entry  at  its  first  appearance  in  u6510G  and  for 
some  time  later  is  for  Turvey  and  Bromham.  For  a  time  it 
was  held  by  Hugh  the  archer  (Sagittarius),107  and  seems  even- 
tually to  have  become  a  little  serjeanty. 

v/C 

(35).  This  hide  in  Farndish  first  appears  on  the  Rolls  as  a 
half  year's  payment  by  the  Sheriff  in  11 76. 10S  It  is  shown  by 
later  Rolls  that  it  was  taken  into  the  King's  hand  on  Hugh's 
default  in  a  plea,  but  was  recovered  by  him  (or  his  son)  twenty- 
four  years  later.109  The  land  apparently  became  the  Basset 
serjeanty. 

v/7 

It  is  not  yet  clear  why  and  when  Edlesborough  fell  to  the 
Crown,  since  the  direct  heirs  of  the  D.B.  tenant,  Gilbert  de 
Gand,  were  an  important  family  till  the  reign  of  Edward  I. 
But  in  1 166  a  moiety  of  the  manor  is  found110  to  have  reverted 
or  escheated  to  the  King  after  tenure  by  Osbert  Martel  and  his 
knights,111  and  long  remains  in  the  Sheriff's  hands. 

101.  P.R.S.,  viii,  24. 

102.  P.R.S.,  ix,  2. 

103.  Lib.  Rub.,  539. 

104.  P.R.S.,  ix,  12. 

105.  P.R.S.,  viii,  24. 

106.  P.R.S.,  viii,  24. 

107.  P.R.S.,  xxx,  122. 
10S.  P.R.S.,  xxv,  26. 

109.  P.R.  47  mem.  126,  Bucks,  and  Beds.  ;  Rot.  Obi.  Fin.  (Rec.  Cora.), 

77  (I2°°)- 

no.  P.R.S.,  ix,  13. 

in.  B.H.R.S.,  ii,  75;  v,  212  note. 


NOTES  :    v/7   to  v/10 


165 


v/7a 

(35).  The  moiety  of  Edlesborcu^h  which  had  been  held  by 
Bernard  cook  seems  to  have  been  assigned  before  1190  to  Ric. 
dc  Baseville,  and  by  him  forfeited  in  1194  (4o/xiiiB/3). 

v/7b 

(35).  This  moiety  seems  to  have  remained  with  Will.  Blundus 
(Blundell)  till  escheated  in  1194  (4o/xiiiB/4). 

v/8  to  10 

(35).  The  descent  of  the  manor  of  Toddington  is  still  partly 
obscure.  Its  earlier  owners  have  been  discussed  by  one  of  the 
present  Editors;112  from  the  Domesday  holder,  Ernulf  de 
Hesding,  it  passed  with  his  (supposed)  daughter  Matilda  to 
Patric  I  de  Chaworth  (de  Cadurcis,  modern  Sourches),  who 
made  grants  in  certain  parts  of  the  manor  of  Toddington  which 
eventually  devolved  on  the  Priory  of  Dunstable;  these  were 
confirmed  in  charters  of  later  date  by  his  daughter  in  law 
Wiburga,  by  his  grandsons  Payn  I  de  Chaworth  (or  de  Mont- 
dubleil)  and  Hugh  de  Chaworth,  and  by  his  great  grandson 
Patric  III  de  Chaworth  who  is  found  at  the  extreme  end  of  the 
xijth  century;113  this  family  are  evidently  the  real  lords  of 
Toddington.  Yet  it  is  obvious  that  this  Geoffrey  de  Perche 
(de  Pertico),  who  seems  to  have  died  in  1180111  had  been 
actually  in  tenure  of  this  manor;  he  may  have  held  it  on  a 
lease  for  lives,  or  it  may  have  formed  the  marriage  portion 
of  his  grandmother,  Sibil  daughter  of  Patric  I  de  Chaworth,113 
for  it  is  clear  that  he  was  brother  of  Rotrou  III  Count  of 
Perche,116  who  succeeded  tc  his  lands  and  whose  son  Geoffrey 
III  Count  of  Perche  also  made  grants  in  Toddington.117 
That  some  rearrangement  was  made  on  Geoffrey's  death  without 
male  heir  appears  from  an  earlier  Rolllls — the  Sheriff  accounts 
for  33s.  <f  of  the  farm  of  Tudingedon  from  that  part  which 
Patric  de  Chaurcis  declined  to  receive  when  partition  was 
made."  The  probable  explanation  is  that  the  ©verlordship 
of  Toddington  was  the  marriage  portion  successively  of  Sibil 
and  her  daughter  Haweise,  and  was  thus  held  by  the  Counts 
of  Perche  in  chief,  while  the  family  of  Chaworth  held  under 
them.  When  the  manor  escheated  in  1194,  it  was  held  by  the 
Count  (40/xiiiC/l).    The  following  table,  showing  the  folk 

112.  B.H.R.S.,  Quarto  Mem.,  i,  §  n;6  iv. 

113.  Dunstable  Cartulary,  ff.  20d,  27,  2jd,  3rd. 

114.  P.R.  Sex:.,  xxx,  p.  xxvi. 

115.  Bracton  :  X.B..  ii,  3. 

116.  P.R.  Soc.,  xxxii,  128. 

117.  Punstalle  Cartul.,  ff.  27d,  72. 
11S.  P.R  S.,  xxx,  12S  (1180/1). 


166 


NOTE  v/8  (CHAWORTH   AND  PERGHE) 


3 
II 

o 

o 


'<JTl 

II  — 

M 

I? 


o 

'  SS.d 


cu 


00 


il  ~ 

§.2 

S3 


«  o 

II 


3  V 
p 


G-6 


NOTES  :    v/11,  v/12 


167 


concerned,  carries  on  the  descent  from  B.H.R.S.,  Quarto 
Mem.  i,  p.  no,  pedigree  v.  Payn  I,  known  sometimes  as 
de  Chaworth,  sometimes  as  de  Monte  Dublclli  (Montdubleil), 
probably  derived  his  alternative  style  from  his  mother  (a 
common  practice  if  she  were  an  heiress);  since  a  Payn  de 
Montdubleil  attests  about  1 090, 119  it  is  likely  that  he  was 
father  of  Wiburga  (Guiberga),  Payn's  mother. 

The  Geoffrey  de  Perche  of  this  entry  attested  numerous 
charters  of  Henry  II;  he  held  lands  at  Newbury  co.  Bucks., 
which  seems  to  have  led  to  some  confusion  with  Geoffrey  de 
Novo  Burgo  (Neubourg  in  Normandy),  his  cousin  and  the  son 
of  Henry  de  Newburgh  Earl  of  Warwick.120 — This  entry, 
which  first  appears  among  Escheats  on  our  Roll  in  1183121, 
disappears  after  1189. 

v/11 

(35).  Will,  de  la  Rochelle  received  40s.  in  Boarstall  by  Brill, 
as  successor  to  Adam  de  Eli  cleric,  in  1167;  and  32s.  4d.  no. 
in  Brill  "  by  a  new  gift  so  long  as  shall  please  the  King  "  in 
1 168. 122  While  the  Roll  of  1179  shows  that  he  was  already- 
dead,  the  present  entry  first  appears  in  11 80,  in  which  year 
the  Sheriff  of  Essex  and  Herts,  owes  moneys  "  for  the  chattels 
of  William  de  Rochella,  which  are  to  be  demanded  of  Earl 
William  de  Mandeville  who  admitted  that  he  had  received 
them."123  This  seems  to  identify  him  with  the  Will,  de  la 
Rochelle  who  held  in  1166124  threequarters  of  a  fee  in  Essex 
from  Geoffrey  de  Mandeville  the  second  Earl  (d.  1 166).  When 
his  land  reverted  to  the  Crown,  it  increased  the  revenue  from 
Brill,  and  appears  therefore  here  as  a  crementum. — An  earlier 
William  seems  to  have  been  an  issuing  Clerk  of  the  Chancery.12'' 

v/12 

(35).  The  history  of  this  land,  which  fell  to  the  Crown  in 
1180,126  can  be  traced  by  a  later  plea,127  and  its 
appearances  in  our  Rolls  show  how  the  Crown  used 
such  Escheats.  It  was  a  half  hide  in  Aylesbury,  demised 
by  Geoffrey  de  Querendon  to  his  brother's  son  Robert  le  Scot ; 
the  latter  failed  in  his  due  service  to  the  Crown,  and  the  land 


119.  Cartul.  of  la  Couture  (le  Mans:  4to  :  1881),  31,  35*. 

120.  Eyton  :  Itin.  Henry  II,  2on  and  index. 

121.  P.R.S.,  xxxii,  S2. 

122.  P.R.S.,  xi,  102;  xii,  7. 

123.  P.R.S.,  xxix,  129,  6. 

124.  Lib.  Rub.,  347. 

125.  Repesta,  nos.  326,  445;  Farrer,  Itin.  Hen.  I,  nos.  35,  112. 

126.  P.R.S.,  xxix,  i2Q. 

127.  Bracton:  Note  Bock,  iii,  411. 


163 


NOTI'S  :   v/13  to  v/15 


escheated.  In  Roll  35  the  Sheriff  has  it  at  farm,  and  pays 
23s.  5d.  for  it.  In  1 190  Will,  de  ste.  .Merc  Eglisc  offers  10 
marks  (36/ixA/i5)  to  have  it  to  farm  at  a  rent  of  5s.;  he 
accounts  regularly  for  the  rent,  and  pays  off  his  Offering  in 
1 193  (39/ixA/i5).  In  Roll  40  it  seems  to  be  again  in  the 
Sheriff's  hand,  but  in  Rolls  42-44  it  has  been  granted  (42/v/u: 
to  Roger  de  St.  Manveu  (Manueio.  not  Malueto  as  in  the  pica  ; 
having  been  taken  out  of  the  Sheriff's  hand,  it  then  figure, 
rightly  among  Allowances  (42/'iiD/i6)  as  being  on  Ancient 
Demesne. 

v/13 

(35).  The  land  of  Robert  of  Poitou  (Poitevin,  Peyto,  or  Peter 
fell  in  at  the  same  time  as  that  of  the  previous  entry ;  and,  as 
in  that  case,  is  cleared  up  by  a  later  roll.  An  inquest  ol 
serjeanties  in  1240/ 1  shows  John  Pictavensis  holding  a  half 
hide  in  Aylesbury  by  the  serjeanty  of  guarding  the  cattle- 
seized  for  distress  (namia)  by  the  Sheriff  on  debts  to  the  Crown ; 
he  was  to  receive  id.  for  a  horse,  id.  for  an  ox,  the  milk  from 
a  cow  in  milk,  and  id.  for  8  swine  or  8  sheep;  if  they  were 
sold,  he  had  his  commission  (custum).12S  In  1247  he  appears 
as  John  de  Peyto  with  the  same  serjeanty.129 

The  Robert  of  R.  35.  36  and  earlier  rolls  becomes  William- 
in  R.  37  and  later,  presumably  a  son;  he  was  cited  for  disseisin 
in  Aylesbury  in  1200. 13  J  Apparently  the  Sheriff  collected  is. 
yearly  for  the  serjeanty. 

v/14 

(35).  This  item  probably  represents  a  propresture  or  essart 
taken  in  from  the  forest  for  cultivation,  and  thus  forming  an 
increment  of  the  fixed  farm.  It  appears  hrst  in  11 80  under 
de  Placitis  Curie  as  fjfi.  13s.  ;  this  sum  probably  included 
arrears  or  an  amercement,  since  for  the  next  four  years  it 
stands  at  2li.  9s.  qd.  and  subsequently  at  (or  at  the  rate  of 
2li.  10s.  gd.  yearly.  The  item  disappears  in  R.  37,  being 
therefore  probably  included  in  the  land  granted  to  Baldwin 
de  Bethune. 

v/15 

(35).  To  Dr.  Round  we  owe  the  segregation  of  the  descendants 
of  Hubert  de  Port  of  Mapledurwell  co.  Hants,  from  the  better 
known  family  of  Hugh  de  Port  the  lord  of  Basing,131  both 

128.  Ass.  Roll,  55,  m.  2  id. 

129.  Ass   Roll  50,  rri.  44c!. 

130.  Curia  Re;:.  Rolls  (U.S.),  i,  142. 

131.  Round:  Genealogist  (n.s.),  xvi,  1. 


NOTE  v/15  (DE  PORT) 


169 


U.B.  magnates  who  probably  took  name  from  Port  en  Bessin. 
In  i©S6  Hubert  de  Port  had  but  the  one  manor  of  Mapledur- 
weil,13"  and  it  is  to  be  presumed  that  the  later,  Adam  de  Port 
who  held  that  manor  and  Kington  co.  Herefs.  was  his  grand- 
son. This  Adam  seems  to  have  been  Sheriff  of  Herefs.  in 
1  i2i,  and  attests  from  11 14  to  1130;  he  made  gifts  to  the 
Abbey  of  Tiron  at  Kington  in  1121/2,  and  at  Mapledurwell 
jn  1131/3.133  Of  his  two  sons  Roger  and  William  who 
attested  in  1 127, 134  Roger  seems  to  have  been  the  eldest  son 
jnd  heir,  and  granted  in  1130  a  mill  to  the  alien  priory  of 
Andvvell  co.  Hants,  (a  cell  of  Tiron  Abbey),  the  grant  being 
attested  by  his  brothers  Hugh  and  Robert,135  but  his  name 
has  not  yet  been  found  in  connection  with  Hatley.  It  appears 
from  further  charters  to  Andwell136  that  he  married  Sibilla  de 
Albini,  and  had  sons  Adam,  Henry,  and  others.  Of  these 
Adam  was  the  eldest,  and  in  1166  returned  a  carta  for  his 
barony  in  Herefordshire,  which  was  now  about  29  fees.137 
Accused  of  treason  in  1 172,  he  refused  to  stand  his  trial,  and 
was  outlawed,138  from  now  onwards  frequently  mentioned  on 
the  Rolls  as  fugitivus  or  fugatus.  By  a  charter  to  which  Dr. 
Round  drew  attention,  he  granted  the  church  of  Hatley  to 
James  de  Hamtona,  and  is  the  first  de  Port  noticed  in  connec- 
tion with  Hatley  Port  (now  known  as  Hatley  Cockayne). 
This  charter  is  interesting  both  for  its  form  and  witnesses,132 — 

"  Notum  sit  domino  episcopo  Lincolniensi  et  archidiaconis  suis  decanis  et 
ceteris  clericis  et  omnibus  hominibus  meis  tarn  francis  quam  anglicis  quod 
ego  Adam  de  Port  concessi  et  dedi  iacobo  de  hantona  eclesiam  de  hattele 
in  elemosinam  cum  omnibus  libertatibus  et  beneficiis  et  cum  omnibus  illis 
que  ad  predictam  eclesiam  pertinent.  Testibus  his :  Ernul  de  Mandeuile, 
et  domina  Alicia  uxore  sua,  et  domina  Matiltide  uxore  predicti  Ade  de 
Port,  et  henrico  de  port  fratre  suo,  Galfrido  de  Mandeuile,  Waltero  de 
Bareuile,  Stefano  de  Hamtona,  Hugone  de  Cormelles,  Alano  de  Matem, 
Rogero  de  Cormelles,  Roberto  filio  Geroldi."    [original:  seal  imperfect.] 

This  charter  can  hardly  be  later  than  the  first  years  of 
Henry  II,  and  may  date  from  Stephen's  reign.  Another  early 
charter,  granted  by  Ernulf  de  Mandeville  to  Hurley  Priory 
about  the  same  period140  shows  that  Adam  de  Port  had  mar- 
ried Ernulf s  daughter  Matilda;  and  some  of  the  witnesses 


132.  V.C.H.  Hants.,  i,  487. 

133.  Farrer  :  Itin.  Hen.  I,  nos.  407,  433,  664A. 

134.  Farrer  :  Itin.  Hen.  I,  no.  542. 

135.  Cal.  Doc.  France,  i,  540. 

136.  Gunner  :  Archceol.  Joura.,  ix,  249. 

137.  Lib.  Rub.,  279,  2S0. 

138.  Benedict  Peterb.  (R.S.  49),  i,  35. 

139.  Harleian  Cart.,  C4.  I.  44. 

140.  F.  T.  Wethered,  St.  Mary's  Hurley,  9a. 


170 


NOTES  :    v/15  to  v/20 


show  that  this  Ernulf  was  the  son  of  the  notorious  Geoffrey 
de  Mandeville,  first  Earl  of  Essex.  In  the  attaint  of  Adam, 
his  brother  Henry  seems  to  have  been  involved,  for  in  1171/2 
the  Sheriff  accounts  among  Escheats  for  "  Hattelega  which 
was  of  Henry  de  Port  as  this  does  not  reappear,  he  v.a^ 

probably  pardoned;  the  entry  for  "  the  moiety  of  the  dower 
of  the  wife  of  Henry  de  Port  "  (35/V/15)  does  not  appear  till 
1 185,  which  may  imply  his  death.  Obviously  the  tenant  of 
Hatley  should  appear  in  the  Beauchamp  carta  of  1166,  and 
is  perhaps  there  disguised  by  error  as  Hen.  de  Poterna,  a  name 
not  otherwise  known  in  this  county.  The  escheat  of  Hatley 
was  evidently  annulled ;  it  appears  only  once  on  the  Pipe  Rolls, 
and  Henry's  descendants  continued  to  hold  the  manor  till  at 
least  1 284/6. 112 

Unfortunately  it  is  not  yet  clear  how  the  family  de  Port 
acquired  Hatley.  In  D.B.  it  appears  as  the  marriage  portion 
of  Azellna  widow  of  Ralf  Taillebois,  and  passed  ( ?  with  her 
suggested  daughter  Matilda)  to  the  overlordship  of  Beauchamp 
of  Bedford.143  Marriage  portions  were  apt  to  be  passed  from 
mother  to  daughter,  and  the  two  charters  quoted  above  rather 
suggest  that  the  manor  came  to  de  Port  through  Matilda  de 
Mandeville,  whose  mother  Alice  would  in  that  case  have  been 
a  Beauchamp,  and  sister  of  Simon  de  Beauchamp  II.  If,  as 
has  been  contended,  Ernulf  was  the  son  of  Geoffrey  de  Man- 
deville by  an  earlier  wife  than  Roheise  de  Vere,  no  consan- 
guinity would  be  involved  in  this  marriage;  and,  on  the  attaint 
of  Adam,  the  heirs  of  Henry  would  (and  did)  hold  directly 
from  Beauchamp  without  intermediary. 

WI6 

(35).  The  early  history  of  Eaton  Bray  has  already  been  sketched 
at  some  length;144  this  entry  apparently  relates  to  that  moiety 
which  has  been  distinguished  as  Eaton  Martelli.  It  now  dis- 
appears from  the  Rolls  for  a  time,  but  a  part  at  least  seems 
to  reappear  as  having  meanwhile  been  granted  to  Eust.  de 
Alneto  and  forfeited  in  1 194  (4o/xiiiB/5). 

?/19 

(35).  See  N/ixA/2. 

v/20 

(35).  Newton  Blossomville  does  not  occur  by  name  in  D.B., 
but  this  land,  being  a  propresture,  was  then  probably  included 

141.  P.R.S.,  xviii. 

142.  Feudal  Aids,  i,  3. 

143.  B.H.R.S.,  i,  64-70. 

144-  B.H.R.S.,  v,  210-214,  notc3. 


NOTE  v/iS  (DE  PORT) 


171 


a 


o  1  2 


-  3 


~  .O 

II  — 


P-4  w 


op 

Oh 


0>  O 


O  0) 


o  . 

5- 


03 


*°  > 

it!  <U 

a  S 
W52 


172 


NOTBS:    v/21  to  vi/2 


under  Lavendon  as  part  of  the  holding-  either  of  the  Bp.  of 
Coutances  or  of  Robert  Count  of  Moretaine;  it  will  therefore 
not  be  identical  with  the  lands  in  Newton  which  are  escheated 
later  in  our  Rolls  (40/xiiiC/3). 

v/2i 

(37).  According  to  Ey ton, 115  John  the  Marshal,  custodian  of 
King  Richard's  escheats,  had  collected  other  available  funds 
and  carried  them  to  the  King  at  Rouen,  probably  in  March 
1 190.  This  appears  to  be  John,  hereditary  Marshal  of  Eng- 
land, who  married  Alice  daughter  of  Adam  de  Port  of  Basing 
and  died  without  issue  (according  to  Eyton)  in  1199,  beinc* 
succeeded  in  the  Marshalship  by  his  brother  William  after- 
wards Earl  of  Pembroke  (N/ixA/4). 

The  subject  of  this  entry  was  incorrectly  enrolled  as 
36/ixA/i8,  but  has  now  been  transferred  by  the  scribe  to  its 
proper  place. 

v/23 

(41).  This  entry,  which  at  first  sight  seems  quite  out  of  place, 
is  really  in  its  right  position  as  being  charged  against  Wil- 
liam's manor  of  Westoning  which  was  a  Propresture  (35/V/19; 
compare  N/ixA/2).  The  fine  illustrates  the  strictness  with 
which  the  Sheriffs  were  kept  up  to  their  duties. 

vi 

(35).  With  the  exception  of  vi/i,  these  appear  to  be  either 
outstanding  debts  from  earlier  Eyres  (nos.  3,  5,  6)  or  un- 
collected Offerings  to  the  Central  Court  (Nos.  2,  4,  7,  8). 

vi/I 

(35).  Entered  on  R.  35  out  of  its  proper  place,  to  which  the 
scribe  transferred  it  in  36/1V/5  and  afterwards.    See  N/iv/5. 

vi/2 

(35).  A  plea  before  Walt.  s.  of  Robert  and  his  fellows  in 
1 1 76. 146  In  1 1 84  is  added147  "  sed  nunc  primo  habuit  rec- 
tum." He  seems  therefore  to  have  had  his  trial  and  lost  his 
case,  but  not  to  have  paid  the  sum  which  he  offered  for  its 
acceleration.  The  shortened  phrase  '  for  Right 1  (pro  recto) 
is  occasionally  written  more  fully  1  to  hasten  Right  '  (pro  fes- 
tinando  recto),  that  is,  an  Offering  in  spem  such  as  Bishop 
Richard  describes  in  the  Dialogus  (see  Introduction,  §  11). 


145.  Salt  Coll.  Hist.  Staffs.,  ii  (1),  22. 

146.  P.R.S.,  txv,  20. 

147.  P.R.S.,  xxriii,  115. 


NOTES  :    vi/4  to  r!/7 


173 


William  s.  of  Nigel  and  Robert  de  Broy  held  2\  fees  from 
the  Beauchamp  Barony  in  n66;14s  the  mill  in  dispute  is 
probably  one  of  the  Sharnbrook  mills,  as  to  which  a  fine  was 
levied  in  1199,149  and  in  the  same  year  Will.  s.  of  Nigel  and 
his  mother  Matilda  were  sued  for  novel  disseisin  in  Sharn- 
brook.150 There  is  at  present  no  sign  of  connection  with  the 
contemporary  Will,  son  of  Nigel,  Keeper  of  the  Forest  of 
Bernwood  (N/viiP/8). 

vi/4 

(35).  This  first  appears  among  the  *  pleas  of  the  Court  '  of 
the  Eyre  of  Hugh  Murdac  and  his  fellows  in  1 180. 151  The 
family  of  Passelewe  (Passaquam,  later  Parslow  or  Paslow)  held 
in  both  Bucks,  and  Beds,  in  1086.  Of  this  Gilbert  it  is  not 
yet  safe  to  say  more  than  that  he  was  a  descendant  of  Ralf 
Passelewe  of  D.B. — Wrocheshala,  Roxhill  or  Wroxhill  in 
Marston  Moretaine,  is  in  the  next  parish  to  the  Passelewe 
manor  of  Holcot. 

(36,  37).  The  last  sentence  seems  to  mean  that  the  plea  has 
not  yet  come  to  trial. 

vi/5  and  6 

(35).  If  a  person  was  found  dead,  and  was  not  proved  before 
the  Coroner  to  have  been  English  (Engleceria  non  fuit  pre- 
sentata),  it  was  taken  that  he  was  a  Norman,  and  a  murder 
fine  was  laid  on  the  Hundred  or  on  the  township  where  the 
corpse  was  found.  The  necessity  for  such  a  practice  in  a 
newly  conquered  country  is  obvious,  and  King  Cnut  seems  to 
have  enacted  a  similar  law  for  the  protection  of  his  Danes.152 

vi/7  and  8 

(35).  The  first  entry  of  these  is  in  1 184, 153  under  the  heading 
"  New  Pleas  and  New  Agreements:  concerning  Offerings  in 
Court,"  immediately  after  the  Offerings  apparently  made  at 
the  Eyre  of  Roger  son  of  Renfrid  in  the  previous  year,  to  which 
they  do  not  belong.  They  seem  to  be  matters  remitted  from 
the  Central  Court  for  collection  by  the  Sheriff. 

vi/7 

(35).  Richard  Ruff  us  had  Berkhamstead  for  many  years; 
Eyton  dates  his  activities  as  1 1 75-1 1 86. 154 

148.  Lib.  Rub.,  319. 

149.  B.H.R.S.,  vi,  18. 

150.  Rot.  Cur.  Reg.  (R.C.),  i,  368. 

151.  P.R.S.,  xxix,  129. 

152.  Reeves:  Hist.  Engl.  Law,  i,  30. 

153.  P.R.S.,  xxxiii,  118. 

154.  Eyton  :  Itin.  Hen.  II,  Index. 


174 


NOTES  :   vi/8  to  V5i 


tri/8 

See  N/ixA/5, 

vl/S 

(37).  This  seems  to  be  a  transfer  from  the  account  for  Glouces- 
tershire, on  which)55  in  1 187  Jordan  clericus  appears  as  the 
clapifer  or  steward  of  the  Earl  of  Gloucester,  fined  50  marks 
for  default,  but  "  nothing  of  his  is  found  "  in  that  county. 
The  charge  seems  therefore  to  have  been  transferred  to  Buck?., 
where  he  presumably  had  something-  at  Hambleden.  But  the 
Exchequer  had  not  secured  anything  by  1 201. 156 

vii 

Most  of  the  matters  dealt  with  at  the  Eyre  proper  seem  to  have 
been  in  the  first  instance  presentments  from  the  Hundred 
Courts.  Except  for  the  murder  fine,  they  were  civil  cases  or 
what  we  should  term  Common  Pleas.  By  the  Assize  of 
Northampton  in  1 176  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Justices  in  Eyre 
was  limited  to  the  value  of  half  a  knight's  fee. 

The  amercements  at  the  Eyre  proper  were  most  commonly  in- 
flicted on  one  of  the  following  grounds:  — 

estreated  pledge  or  bail  (quia  non  habuit  quern  plegiauit)  : 

failure  to  produce  a  warrantor  vouched  (quia  non  habuit  quern  vocauit)  : 

disseisin,  illegal  displacement  of  the  tenant  (pro  disseisina)  : 

false  claim  for  land  or  goods,  rejected  after  hearing  (pro  falso  clamore)  : 

default  in  some  local  duty  or  payment  (pro  defalta)  : 

failure  to  sue  after  taking  out  a  Writ  (quia  non  est  prosecutus)  : 

withdrawal  from  a  suit  or  appeal  (quia  retraxit  se)  : 

concealment  of  evidence  (pro  concelamento). 

In  some  cases,  not  the  individual,  but  his  Tithing  or 
Decenna  (the  association  of  men  mutually  responsible  by 
1  frank-pledge '  for  the  good  behaviour  of  each  other)  was 
amerced;  notably  if  one  of  their  number  fled  under  suspicion 
or  escaped  from  justice.  A  man  who  was  of  the  household 
(in  the  main  past)  of  his  lord  needed  not  to  be  in  a  tithing, 
but  his  lord  was  held  responsible  for  his  civil  offences  in  its 
stead  (44/viiP/8).  If  he  were  in  neither  tithing  nor  main  past, 
the  Vill  was  amerced.  On  the  murder  fine,  the  whole  Vill 
or  Hundred  may  be  mulcted  as  theoretically  responsible  for 
production  of  the  murderer.  Even  the  Sheriff  is  not  exempt 
from  amercement  for  failing  in  his  duty. 

The  Forest  Eyres157  dealt  with  a  special  set  of  offences 
against  the  royal  forests ;  in  these  Rolls  we  have  examples  of 

155.  P.R.S.  xxxvii,  136. 

156.  Chanc.  R.,  3  John  (R.C.),  343. 

157.  Turner  :  Sel.  Pleas  of  the  Forest,  Selden  Soc.  xiii. 


NOTES  :   vii  to  vii  B/7 


175 


waste,  abuse  of  the  landowner's  right  to  cut  wood,  etc.  : 
essarfj  clearing  and  cultivation  of  woodland  illegally  : 
rocroachment  of  any  sort  within  the  forest  area  : 

trespass  of  the  assise  of  vert,  perhaps  damage  to  trees  and  herbage  : 
trespass  of  agistment,  breach  of  regulations  for  pasturage  : 
assault  on  a  forester. 

The  majority  of  amercements  at  the  Eyres  (as  distinct 
from  the  Offerings)  were  inflicted  for  minor  offences  on  insig- 
nificant people  as  to  whom  nothing  further  has  been  traced. 

vii  A 

(35).  Cases  1  to  4  relate  to  Beds.,  cases  5  to  7  relate  to  Bucks. 

vii  A/3 

(35).  In  Roll  39  the  man  is  said  to  be  dead;  the  entry  dis- 
appears on  R.  40,  but  reappears  for  the  last  time  on  R.  41. 

vii  A/7 

(35).  The  accused  appear  at  first  entry  at  Ailiua  and  Tola.158 

vii  B/l 

(35)  .  Ailwi  de  Tyringham  was  originally  amerced  3  marks 
H  pro  vadio  vetato  et  verberacione  forest[arii];  it  is  possible 
that  vadio  was  miswritten  for  namio,  the  offence  of  withdraw- 
ing chattels  which  had  been  seized  for  distraint;  the  beating 
of  foresters  occurs  elsewhere.159 

vii  B/5 

(36)  .  The  allowance  illustrates  the  complex  cross-accounting 
allowed  at  the  Exchequer.  William  Marshal  (afterwards  Earl 
of  Pembroke)  has  a  writ  from  the  King  crediting  him  with  7m. 
(4li.  13s.  4d.);  producing  this  at  the  Exchequer,  he  escapes 
payment  of  three  small  debts  amounting  to  2li.  18s.  2d.,  and 
presumably  uses  the  balance  in  the  account  of  some  other 
debts  in  another  County. 

vii  B/7 

(35).  Ansgot  of  Wycombe  appears  to  have  died  in  1 184/5, 
when  his  wife  offered  40m.  for  this  wardship.160  The  rela- 
tionships shown  in  the  sketch  below  are  revealed  by  the  Ladies' 
Roll.161  The  ultimate  heir  seems  to  have  been  Geoffrey  son 
of  Ansgot  who  held  from  the  Honour  of  Wallingford  in  1208/9, 
but  was  dead  by  1235/6  ;162  he  pays  his  scutage  in  42/ixG/23- 

158.  P.R.S.  xxxiv,  138. 

159.  P.R.  47,  mem.  3. 

160.  P.R.S.,  xxxiv,  140. 

161.  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  37. 
16a.  Bk.  Fees,  i,  20,  461. 


176 


NOTES  ;   vti  B/7  to  vii  B/H 


Robert  de  Hauechford  =  =  Anskctil  de  Wicumba 

I  |  £f.of  Hon.  Wallingf.  1166 

|  I    (L.K.  310) 

Matilda  =  Ansgot  ds  Wicumba 

aet.  30  I 
iu  J 185 


Robert  s.  of  Anigot  •  Geoffrey  son  of  Ansgot  :         2  sons,  3  daus. 

aet.  13  in  >  185;  \  fee         Lib.  Rub.  599 
in  Wicumba 

The  land  was  assessed  at  a  half  fee,  and  therefore  could 
be  dealt  with  by  Justices  in  Eyre,  but  the  entry  is  an  Offering 
at  its  first  appearance. 

A  Final  Concord  between  Matilda  widow  of  Ansgot  and 
the  Abbot  of  Missenden163  by  which  she  and  her  son  Robert 
quitclaim  a  half  virgate  in  Wendover  to  the  Abbey,  is  worth 
printing  in  full  for  the  variations  which  it  shows  from  the 
1  common  form  '  ultimately  fixed  for  these  instruments.  The 
dating  is  curious,  as  there  was  no  November  in  35  Henry  II, 
Richard  having  been  crowned  on  Sep.  3rd. ;  but  the  list  of 
Justices  seems  to  show  that  it  was  made  between  the  Michael- 
mas of  1 1 88  and  that  of  11 89;  the  date  would  be  therefore 
18  November  1 188. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  facta  in  Curia  domini  Regis  apud  bedeford'  die 
ueneris  proxima  ante  festum  sancti  Eadmundi  Anno  Regni  Regis  Hen  ru  t 
secundi  xxxv  Coram  G[alfrido]  elien'  episcopo  et  J.  cicestr'  archid'  et 
gaufrido  fllio  petri  et  Radulfo  Murdak  et  Michaele  Belet  et  Nigello  filio 
Alexandri  et  Roberto  de  Harar  et  Henrico  de  Norhanton  Justiciis  domini 
Regis  et  aliis  baronibus  et  fidelibus  domini  Regis  qui  tunc  ibi  aderant  int-  r 
abbatem  de  Messend'  et  Matill'  que  fuit  uxor  Angoti  de  Wycumba  et 
Robertum  filium  suum  de  dimidia  uirgata  terre  in  Wendoura  undo 
placitum  fuit  inter  eos  in  curia  domini  Regis  scilicet  quod  predicti  scilicet 
Matill'  et  Robertus  filius  eius  quiet'  clamauerunt  totum  ius  eorum  et 
clamium  quod  habuerunt  in  predicta  virgata  terre  de  se  et  heredibus 
eorum  in  perpetuum  prenominato  abbati  et  ecclesie  de  Messend'  et  canonicis 
ibidem  deo  seruientibus  pro  salute  eorum  et  omnium  antecessorum  suorurn 

vii  B/8  to  16 

(35).  Though  the  Roll  gives  no  warning  of  the  fact,  these 
entries  prove  to  be  from  the  Eyre  of  Hugh  de  Morewich  in 
1 185.  Unfortunately  all  numbers  had  been  assigned  to  then' 
respective  entries  before  this  was  identified. 

vii  B/14 

(35).  The  culprit  at  first  appears  as  Medarius,  a  brewer  of 
mead. 


163.  Cartel;  Missenden,  Had.  MS.  3688,  f.  174c!. 


NOTES  :    vii  B/16,   vii  B/17 


177 


vii  B/1G 

[jc).  Maino  (Manno,  Maigno)  the  Breton  held  at  Domesday 
a  laige  estate  in  Bucks.,  including  Wolverton  the  future  head 
of  the  barony.164  Presumably  his  son  was  Meinfelin,  the 
Maenfinus  of  the  1 1 30  Pipe  Roll,  who  seems  to  have  been 
Sheriff  of  Bucks,  and  Beds,  only  in  1 127/8  and  part  of  1 128/9, 
though  he  had  paid  Gersuma  or  handsel  to  have  the  shires 
for  four  years;  it  is  possible  that  death  cut  short  his  office. 
He  appears  as  Meinfeninus  Brito  in  a  late  charter  of  Henry 
I.165  Hamo  son  of  Meinfelin  occurs  in  the  Pipe  Roll  of  1 156, 160 
and  returned  his  carta  for  the  Barony  of  Wolverton  in  1166 
as  of  15  knights.107  A  benefactor  of  the  Priory  of  Lufheld 
in  co.  Bucks.,  he  granted  to  it  "a  tenth  of  the  bread  of  all 
my  household  wherever  I  may  be  on  my  land  of  my  own 
profit,"  that  is,  when  on  his  demesne  manors.168  William  son 
of  Meinfelin  (37/viiL/9),  presumably  a  brother,  appears  in 
the  Pipe  Roll  of  29  Henry  II  (1183).  Hamo  married  Matilda, 
a  sister  of  his  neighbour  William  Mauduit  of  Hanslope,  who 
had  her  dower  in  Stoke  Hammond  co.  Bucks,  which  takes  its 
name  from  these  Hamos.  He  was  apparently  alive  in  1184, 
but  in  1 185  his  lands  are  being  farmed  by  the  Sheriff.169 
Hamo  son  of  Hamo  son  of  Meinfelin,  the  subject  of  the 
present  entry,  who  is  paying  his  Relief,  was  born  about  1 165, 170 
and  was  married  by  the  King's  precept  to  Agatha,  sister  and 
coheir  of  Robert  Trussebut.171  He  seems  to  have  died  in  a 
few  years,  for  in  119S  William  son  of  Hamo  makes  fine  for 
his  brother's  land  (44/1XH/7). 

vii  B/17 

(35).  This  entry  first  appears,  among  other  apparent  fines 
remitted  from  the  central  court,  in  11 87,  enrolled  after  the 
Eyre  of  the  previous  year.  From  entries  of  11 79  to  1 181 
relating  to  a  change  of  the  coinage  we  learn  that  bullion  was 
sent  from  the  Treasury  at  Winchester  to  Northampton,  and 
thence  despatched  to  other  towns  where  moneyers  were 
authorised  to  mint  the  new  coinage.  The  lost  treasure  prob- 
ably relates  to  some  such  store  of  bullion  in  transit. 


164.  V.C.H.,  Bucks.,  i,  269-271. 

165.  Round  :  Commune  of  London,  121,  123. 

166.  Pipe  Rolls,  Henry  II  (R.C.),  22. 

167.  Liber  Rubeus,  314. 

16S.  Madox  :  Hist.  Exchequer,  i,  3;  or  Mon.  Angl.,  iv,  350. 

169.  P.R.S.  xxxiv,  131. 

170.  P.R.S.  xxxv,  38. 

171.  P.R.S.  xiv,  i2. 


178 


NOTFS  s   rii  C/.l  to  vai  E/17 


vii  C/I 

(39)  .  The  scr:be  dropped  id.  in  bringing  this  item  forward. 

vi?  C/2 

(35).  A  Giles  de  Pinkeny,  this  man  or  his  father,  held  1 1  fees 
from  Gilbert  de  Pinkeny  in  1166,17-  but  his  place  in  the  family 
(N/viiiB/9)  is  not  clear.  He  married  Matilda  de  la  Mare, 
widow  of  [  ?  William]  de  Engleneld,  and  fines  were  levied 
between  him  and  his  stepson  for  lands  in  Englefield  and  Clay- 
don173  in  1195-119/  (compare  44/ixH/i4). 

vii  D/5 

(35).  Hugh  de  la  Felde  appears  to  have  held  in  Chalfont 
(Chiaufunt).174 

vii  D/6 

(37).  The  scribe  has  dropped  2d.  in  carrying  forward  from 
the  last  Roll. 

vii  E 

(35)  .  While  the  majority  of  these  cases  are  ordinary  routine 
work  of  the  Eyre,  nos.  12,  15,  16,  appear  to  be  Offerings. 
No.  17  is  an  arrear  from  R.  34  of  scutage  on  those  who  did 
not  accompany  the  army. 

vii  E/3,  4 

(36)  .  Those  who  sat  at  the  Exchequer  officially  were  exempt 
from  all  levies  of  common  assises  of  Justices  in  Eyre,  from 
murder-fines  scutages  and  Danegelds.173 

vii  E/IO 

(35).  Arithmetic  wrong  by  is. 

vii  E/13 

(40)  .  The  scribe  dropped  is.  in  carrying  forward. 

vii  E/I6,  17 

(35).  William  de  Caron  of  Sherington,  who  held  two  fees  in 
chief  in  1166,176  seems  to  have  died  in  11 80,  whereon,  for  some 
untraced  reason,  the  Sheriff  farmed  his  estate  till  1 187,  although 
his  son  Richard  de  Caron  was  of  age  in  1176.  William,  the 
first  Caron  as  yet  traced  at  Sherington,  was  probably  a  cadet 
of  the  Bedfordshire  family,  under-tenants  at  Domesday  and 
even  before  the  Conquest;  he  married  Ida  daughter  of  Hugh 

172.  Lib.  Rub.,  314. 

173.  Hvmter  :  Fines,  i,  92,  181  ;  Cur.  Reg.  Rolls  (R.S.),  i,  71. 

174.  Cut.  Reg.  Rolls  (R.S.)  i,  94. 

175.  Dialogus  (Oxford  ed.)  95;  Madox  :  Hist.  Excheq.,  ii,  20. 

176.  Liber  Rubeus,  314. 


NOTES  :    vii  F  to  vii  G/19 


179 


4e  Bulli,  and  left  at  least  three  sons — the  Richard  of  this 
entry,  who  does  not  appear  after  1190,  Gervase  de  Sherington 
Who  seems  also  to  have  died  young,  and  (presumably)  the 
William  de  Sherington  who  occurs  on  the  scutages  of  1 194  and 
later;  but  the  estate  fell  eventually  to  Richard's  descendants.177 
The  Scutage  of  Galloway  was  raised  in  11 86  at  20s.  on  each 
fee. 

vii  F,  G 

(35).  These  record  fines  etc.  made  at  the  Eyre  of  the  current 
year,  and  are  followed  by  the  year's  Offerings. 

vii  F/5 

(35).  The  amerced  Hundred  appears  first  as  Binkelawe  in 
R.  35,  37,  38;  in  R.  36  it  is  Binkelewade,  but  in  R.  39  as 
Bikleswada.  This  is  probably  correct,  as  Biggleswade  gave 
name  to  a  full  Hundred,  but  the  alternative  Biukelawe  (Buck- 
ley, Buchelai)  was  a  Half  Hundred. 

vii  G/4a 

(35).  Geoffrey  fitz  Roy  gave  up  his  seal  to  the  King  on  10  July 
1 1 89. 178 

vii  G/I2 

(39)'  The  scribe  dropped  is.  in  bringing  this  item  forward. 

vii  G/19 

(35).  The  Honour  named  identifies  this  entry  with  Hugh  de 
Nowers170  of  Missenden,  where  William  de  Messendena  founded 
the  Abbey  in  1 1 33.  It  seems  clear  from  its  Cartulary  that 
William's  son  Hugh  adopted  the  name  of  Nowers  which,  in 
accordance  with  a  not  infrequent  practice,  was  probably  that 
of  his  mother,  perhaps  a  daughter  of  the  Domesday  house  of 
Nowers  of  Gayhurst.  Hugh  held  a  fee  of  the  Giffard  Honour 
in  1166,180  and  attested  Walter  Giffard's  charter  to  Longue- 
ville  circa  I150;181  he  left  a  son  William  whose  son  William, 
married  in  1181  as  a  mere  boy  to  a  daughter  of  Henry  de 
Pinkeny  his  guardian,182  was  dead  by  1189,  when  his  brother 
Hugh  now  makes  an  Offering  of  20m.  for  his  lands. 


177.  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  42;  Bracton,  Note  Book,  ii,  672. 

178.  D.N.B.,  xxi,  140b. 

179.  de  Noers,  Nuiers,  Nodariis,  etc.;  of  Noyeres  in  Calvados. 

180.  Liber  Rubeus,  312. 

181.  Cal.  Doc.  France,  76. 

182.  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  3S. 


180 


NOTES  :    vii  G/20  to  vn  H/l 


vii  G/20 

(35).  Harao  sen  of  Berner  held  half  a  fee  of  the  Giffard  Honour 
in  ii66;18i  this  may  have  been  Lamport  in  Stowe,  where 
Berner  held  3^  h.  of  Walter  Giffard  in  1066. 184 

vii  G/22 

(35).  Barton  co,  Beds,  where  the  family  of  Parentin  were 
tenants  of  Ramsey  Abbey.185 

vii  G/24 

(35)  .  John  Cabuis  or  Kabuz  is  returned  in  12 12  as  holding 
of  the  King  in  the  Honour  of  Wallingford  by  the  service  ol 
accompanying  the  army  of  Wales  with  a  horse  and  sack  and 
broche  at  the  King's  cost  after  the  first  night.186  It  will  be 
observed  that  his  debt  is  to  be  demanded  in  Middlesex.  In 
1 2 19  Reginald  Cabus  is  found  holding  a  serjeanty  at  Ykeham 
(Ickenham),  Middlesex  by  a  precisely  similar  tenure,  and 
Ickenham  being  in  part  of  the  Honour  of  Wallingford,187  it 
is  not  necessary  to  assume  that  John  had  any  holding  in  Bucks, 
or  Oxon.  Reginald  may  be  son  of  John :  and  both  may  be 
descended  from  William  Cabus,  who  appears  under  Middlesex 
in  1129-30  as  pardoned  9s.  6d.  in  respect  of  Danegeld.ISS 
Reginald  appears  in  19  Hen.  Ill  as  a  juror  for  a  grand  assise 
in  Middlesex.189  In  Pipe  Roll  49  (5  John)  there  occurs  under 
Oxfordshire  an  entry  of  a  debt  by  Walkelin  Cabz  of  half  a 
mark  for  disseisin — "  but  it  is  to  be  demanded  in  Middlesex." 
Possibly  he  also  was  of  the  family.190 

vii  H/l 

(36)  .  Bartholomew  de  Lega  (La  Legh,  now  Thurleigh  co.  Beds.) 
appears  to  be  the  head  of  a  family  suggested191  as  descending 
from  Hugh  the  Fleming,  brother  of  Walter  the  Fleming  ances- 
tor of  the  Barons  of  Wahull.  Hugh  de  Lega,  predecessor  of 
Bartholomew,  held  10  fees  from  the  Wahull  Honour  in  1166.193 
Though  his  font  name  is  illegible,  Bartholomew  appears  for 
scutage  in  38/ viiiA/3. 

183.  Liber  Rubeus,  313. 

184.  V.C.H.,  Bucks.,  i,  250a. 

185.  Ramsey  Cartul.  (R.S.  79),  i,  475;  iii,  212. 

186  Testa  de  Nevill,  118;  Bk.  Fees',  i,  120;  Lib.  Rub.,  600.  Compare 
the  Turnspit  Serjeanty  in  Round,  King's  Serjeants,  254-257. 

187.  Testa,  360,  361  ;  Bk.  Fees,  i,  272,  474. 

188.  P.R.  30  Hen.  1  (Rec.  Corn.),  152. 

189.  Assise  Roll  536,  mem.  1. 

190.  P.R.  49,  mem.  15. 

191.  V.C.H.,  Beds.,  iii,  104b;  B.H.R.S.,  ii,  201-203;  Farrer,  Hon. 
Kt.  Fees,  it  69. 

192.  Liber  Rubeus,  322. 


NOTES  :   vii  J/1   to  vii  M/5 


181 


vii  J/1 

(36).  See  N/viiiB/3. 

vii  J/3 

(36)  .  Bernard  IV  de  St.  Walery193  was  at  Messina  with  King 
Richard  in  1 191 194  and  seems  to  have  died  about  then  (for  the 
family  see  N/ixG/41). 

vii  K 

(37)  .  The  second  Justice,  enrolled  as  H.  Arch'  Ebroic',  is 
somewhat  mysterious,  but  was  probably  Archdeacon  of  Evreux 
in  Normandy. 

vii  K/3 

(37).  William  Wischard,  a  knight  on  the  Grand  Assises  of 
1 202, 195  appears  from  the  Dunstable  Cartulary  to  have  held 
in  Pulloxhill  and  Flitton;  his  son  John  made  a  grant  to 
Dunstable  in  Chalton  (Toddington).196 

vii  K/4b 

(37).  The  Priory  of  Chicksand,  a  nunnery  of  the  Gilbertine 
Order  of  Sempringham  co.  Lines.,  seems  to  be  intended. 

vii  M/5 

(39).  With  the  family  of  William  camerarius  de  Luitone  the 
early  history  of  Luton  church  is  closely  involved.  In  D.B. 
we  find  this  church  and  its  5  hides  of  land  to  be  held  from 
the  King  by  William  the  chamberlain;  he  held  also  2  virgates 
in  Battlesdon  and  a  hide  in  Potsgrove;  all  three  had  been 
held  by  Morkere  priest  of  Luton  before  the  Conquest,  and 
apparently  together  formed  the  church's  endowment.  William 
enjoyed  also  the  church  of  Houghton  Regis  with  its  2  virgates, 
and  in  Bucks,  had  2  hides  at  Hartwell  (besides  a  manor  at 
Totternhoe  which  does  not  come  into  this  story).  He  was 
probably  a  clerk  in  minor  Orders  like  so  many  officials  of 
the  time,  and  suitable  therefore  to  hold  such  benefices  by  way 
of  salary  for  his  office  of  Chamberlain.  His  next  appearance 
is  as  Willelmus  regis  camerarius  de  Lundonie  about  1 100, 
holding  Leia  (Bessels  Leigh,  co.  Oxon.)  from  the  Abbey  of 
Abingdon  for  one  fee,  at  first  refusing  to  do  homage  and  to 
furnish  a  knight  for  it,  ultimately  paying  10  marks  to  the 
Abbot  for  his  fault  and  acknowledging  the  service  due;197 
this  episode  suggests  that  he  was  the  William  who  held  Leia 


193.  Genealogist  (n.s.)  xxx,  6-8,  has  an  account  of  him. 

194.  Rymer's  Foedera,  i,  (i),  54. 

195.  B.H.R.S.,  i,  193-197. 

196.  DxmstaWe  Cartul.,  fo.  58. 

197.  Hist.  Abingdon  (R.S.  2),  ii,  128. 


182 


NOTE  v«M/5  (CAMKKARIUS) 


from  the  Abbey  m  io36.IM  A  charter  of  about  noo/i,1" 
addressed  to  bun  among  others,  points  to  his  being  an  official 
of  Middlesex:  a  farther  writ  addressed  to  William  chamber- 
lain  and  Aubrey  de  Vere  '  and  all  their  successors,  chamber- 
lains and  sheriff's  of  London,'  which  ordered  that  *-d.  dailv 
should  be  paid  out  of  the  farm  of  London  for  a  light  to  burn 
before  Queen  Matilda's  tomb,  shows  him  in  1120/22  as  con 
cerned  with  the  royal  finances  from  the  city.200 — Running 
through  this  period  however  is  a  certain  William  de  Hough- 
ton201 (Hocton,  Hohton);  and  although  both  men  were  cham- 
berlains of  some  sort,  both  held  manors  from  Ramsey  Abbey, 
and  both  had  some  connection  with  a  Houghton,  it  is  far 
from  certain  that  they  were  identical.— We  then  find  '  Willel- 
mus  camerarius  Londoniensis  '  between  11 14  and  1130  as 
resigning  to  the  Abbey  of  Ramsey  the  land  of  Pekesden-- 
(Pegsdon  in  Shillington  co.  Beds.)  for  the  sum  of  6  mark.-, 
paid  in  the  presence  of  his  brothers  Robert  and  Richard  and 
of  Ailwardus  magister  de  Luitone;202  from  the  style  of  the 
last  named  we  may  reasonably  infer  that  he  was  the  priest 
who  acted  as  William's  vicar  in  the  church. 

The  next  light  comes  from  a  record  of  St.  Alban's  Abbey-'" 
which  appears  to  be  in  the  main  reliable.  By  (probably, 
Henry  I  the  lands  of  Luton  church  had  been  assigned  to  the 
overlordship  of  Robert,  Earl  of  Gloucester  (d.  1147),  his 
natural  son;  no  allowances  for  terre  date  are  shown  in  the  Pipe 
Roll  of  1 130  and  Luton  is  not  mentioned,  but  the  Earl  of 
Gloucester  is  pardoned  in  it  56s.  for  Danegeld  in  Beds.,  prob- 
ably including  the  church  manor.  The  advowson  of  Luton 
and  the  lands  of  its  endowment  thus  came  to  belong  to  Robert'- 
fee;  by  a  payment  of  10m.  William  chamberlain  obtained  that 
he  might  hold  the  church  and  its  lands  by  military  service 
'as  undertenant  of  the  Earl.  The  latter,  before  he  and  King 
Stephen  quarrelled  in  11 38  (or  it  may  have  been  his  son  Eari 
William)  transferred '  the  church  manor  to  Gilbert  de  Clare 
Earl  of  Hertford  (d.  1152)  and  gave  him  formal  seisin;  Wil- 
liam however,  though  a  layman  and  married,  claimed  to  hold 
and  held  it  as  a  half  knight's  fee.  Earl  Gilbert,  his  new  lord, 
then  presented  to  the  church  his  own  kinsman  Gilbert  de  Cim- 
may,  a  cleric  and  a  royal  chaplain;  but  Bishop  Alexander  of 

198.  D.B.,  i,  s8d. 

199.  Farrer  :  Itin.  Hen.  T,  19,  no.  66. 

200.  Farrer  :  Itin.  Hen.  I,  101,  no.  470. 

201.  Compare  e.g.  the  indices  to  Ramsey  Cartul.  and  Farrer's  Itin. 

202.  Cartul.  Ramsey  (R.S.  79),  i,  142. 

203.  Gesta  Abbatum  (R.S.  2S  iv),  i,  113-118. 


NOTE  viiM/5  (CAMERARIUS) 


183 


Lincoln  (1123-48)  declined  to  accept  the  presentation  or  to 
dispossess  William  without  a  formal  trial;  for  this  a  day  was 
set,  Wiliiam  did  not  appear  but  replied  by  his  attorney  that 
he  refused  to  submit  his  cause  to  an  ecclesiastical  court,  since 
he  held  the  church  1  hereditarily  and  by  knight  service.' 
Finally  a  trial  was  held  in  Luton,  since  William  was  living" 
there  and  would  have  no  excuse  for  absence;  still  he  did  not 
appear,  but  the  Bishop  was  now  fortified,  not  only  by  a 
mandate  of  the  Papal  Legate,  but  also  by  a  royal  precept  to 
hold  (what  later  was  called)  an  Assise  Utrum;  and  it  was 
found  by  inquisition  that  the  5  hides  of  the  church  manor  had 
always  been  held  (not  by  knight  service  but)  in  alms,  from 
the  date  of  the  foundation  of  the  church  till  the  time  '  of  the 
last  '  William  chamberlain;  William  was  thereon  dispossessed. 
The  date  of  this  trial  can  be  fixed  by  the  mention  of  the  Papal 
Legate,  Alberic,  Bishop  of  Ostia,  who  was  in  this  country  in 
1 1 38  and  1 1 39. 204 — After  Earl  Gilbert  relinquished  Stephen's 
cause,  probably  in  1141/2,  the  King  assigned  all  his  rights 
in  Luton  to  Robert  de  Waudari  (Valdori,  modern  Vaudare) ; 
he  attested  a  charter  of  Stephen  about  1 142, 205  and  appears 
in  the  P.R.  of  1 1 56  as  recipient  of  a  royal  gift,  but  was  prob- 
ably little  more  than  a  steward  of  the  royal  manor. — After 
16  years  tenure  of  the  church  by  Gilbert  de  Cimmay  (therefore 
about  1 155/6)  he  transferred  his  rights  through  Nicholas  Arch- 
deacon of  Bedford  to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Alban,  with  the  assent 
of  Robert  de  Valdori.  The  Abbot,  in  order  to  secure  every 
possible  title,  obtained  from  William  Earl  of  Gloucester,  son 
and  successor  of  Earl  Robert,  a  charter  which  shows  that  the 
D.B.  lands  were  still  attached  to  the  church  of  Luton,  for  it 
invests  the  Abbot  with  all  that  William  chamberlain  had  held 
of  the  Earl's  fee  "  in  the  Soke  of  Luitun  and  in  Hertswelle  and 
in  Badelesdune  and  in  Potesgrave  for  the  service  of  half  a 
knight,"  reserving  to  William's  wife  her  dower  for  life  with 
reversion  to  the  Abbey.  The  whole  story  is  an  incident  in 
the  struggle  of  the  monasteries  to  acquire  as  many  parish 
churches  as  possible;  there  was  nothing  unusual  in  a  lay 
*  rector,'  and  the  religious  houses  themselves  held  much  of  their 
land  by  knight  service. 

But  it  is  clear  from  several  points  in  the  foregoing  story 
of  Luton  church  that  we  are  there  dealing  with  a  second  or 
(more  probably)  a  third  William  chamberlain,  a  layman  while 
the  first  was  in  orders.  It  is  also  clear  from  the  records 
already  cited  that  the  first  William  was  '  chamberlain  of  Lon- 

204.  Gervase  Cant.  (R.S.  73),  i,  109. 

205.  Cal.  Doc.  France,  i,  492. 


184 


NOTES  :   vii  M/U   to  vii  0 


don,'  not  an  official  of  the  city  of  London  as  has  been  claimed, 
but  a  royal  officer  .superintending  the  collection  of  customs, 
prisage  of  wine,  tronage  ex  wool,  and  similar  royal  dues  in 
the  port  of  London.206  By  1150  he  had  ceased  to  function;-  : 
but,  as  in  the  case  of  some  other  chamberlains,  the  official  title 
came  to  be  used  as  a  surname  for  his  descendants,  and  they 
were  sometimes  distinguished  from  men  of  similar  style  as 
1  chamberlain  of  Luton/  as  in  the  present  entry.  It  would 
seem  that  the  second  William  may  perhaps  have  inherited  his 
father's  office,  for  ■  William  chamberlain  of  London  '  is  found 
to  hold  a  fee  of  the  Honour  of  Gloucester  in  1 166. 208 

vii  M/I4 

(39).  This  is  the  earliest  reference  yet  noted  to  Ernest  of  Milton 
Ernest.209 

vii  N/6 

(39).  The  '  Lovat,'  the  alternative  name  of  the  little  river 
Ouzel,  has  long  been  a  puzzle.  Mr.  Richmond  of  Leighton 
Buzzard  has  called  our  attention  to  an  early  deed  of  St.  George's 
Chapel,  Windsor,  in  which  it  is  termed  the  Lovent;  from  this 
in  all  probability  oar  William  de  Lovente  took  his  name. 

vii  N/10 

(39).  The  Bassets  of  Drayton  [Basset,  co.  Staffs.]  were  a  dis- 
tinguished family,  with  whom  the  subject  of  this  entry  seems 
to  have  no  connection.  He  was  amerced  for  waste  in  1 187, 210 
and  party  to  a  filial  concord  of  Draitun  and  Merston  in 
1204  ;211  this  is  marked  at  foot  as  of  Bucks,  and  Herts,  and 
probably  relates  to  Drayton  [Beauchamp]  co.  Bucks,  and  Long 
Marston  co.  Herts.  He  seems  to  be  styled  here  '  of  Draiton  ' 
for  distinction  from  his  contemporary  William  Basset  of 
Oakley,  co.  Bucks. 

vii  0 

(42).  Items  89-96  were  at  first  entered  among  the  other  debts 
of  this  Eyre,  but  later  deleted  and  enrolled  towards  the  end 
of  the  Compotus  as  accounted  by  a  pardon.  Similarly,  items 
87  and  88  were  debited  deleted  and  elsewhere  accounted.  These 
have  all  been  restored  to  their  original  position  in  the  Calendar. 
The  men  listed  in  items  89-96  are  presumably  tenants  of 
Leighton  Priory. 

206.  Madox  :  Hist.  Exchequer,  i,  766,  775. 

207.  P.R.  1130  (R.C.),  145. 

208.  Lib.  Rub.  290. 

209.  Compare  B.H.R.S.,  vi,  203,  204. 

210.  P.R.S.,  xxxvii,  37. 

2i  1.  Feet  of  Fines,  282/4/36. 


NOTES  :    vii  P/8  to  viii  (SCUTAGE) 


185 


vii  P/8 

,44).  The  fact  that  this  is  a  Forest  Plea  indicates  that  it 
relates  to  the  William  son  of  Nigel  who  acted  as  hereditary 
Keeper  of  the  royal  Forest  of  Bernwood  by  Brill;  the  office 
seems  to  have  been  at  first  held  by  the  family  de  Lisures212 
who  claimed  a  general  forester  serjeanty  in  1 166. 213  To  the 
office  of  Keeper  was  attached  a  hide  of  land  called  the  Deer- 
hide  in  Boarstall,214  for  which  he  paid  10s.,  and  for  the  forest 
40s.,  and  had  rights  of  thorn  (for  fuel),  wind-felled  timber, 
pannage  for  swine,  and  (the  profits  of)  claims  and  indictments 
for  offences  against  vert  and  venison,  with  husbote  and  heybote 
(timber  for  repair  of  buildings  and  fences).215 

vii  P/18 

(44).  The  items  18-21  preceded  or  followed  the  Tallages,  but 
evidently  belong  to  the  Forest  Eyre. 

viii  (scutage) 

A  comparison  of  the  sums  shown  on  our  Roll  as  demanded 
for  this  scutage,  with  the  knights'  fees  returned  in  the  carte 
of  1166,216  and  with  the  sums  entered  at  the  Exchequer  in 
connection  with  this  scutage,217  shows  the  somewhat  erratic 
way  in  which  the  returns  were  made  and  the  payments  were 
exacted.  In  11 66  every  Tenant  in  Chief  was  expected  to 
return  a  certificate  (carta),  showing  for  his  own  fief  the  number 
of  Knights'  fees 

a.  granted  before  1 1 3  5  to  knights  of  the  old  feoffment  (de  veteri 
feffamento) : 

b.  granted  since  1135  to  knights  of  the  new  feoffment  (de  nouo 
feffamento) : 

c.  held  by  himself  in  demesne  (in  dominio). 

These  three  added  together  should  make  up  the  seruicium 
debitum,  the  number  of  fees  for  which  the  tenant  must  either 
put  knights  into  the  field  when  the  King  summons  his  array, 
or  must  pay  scutage  (shield-money). 

But  when  we  analyse  the  returns  of  1 166,  it  is  obvious 
that  those  who  drew  them  up  did  not  exactly  grasp  what  they 
were  expected  to  do,  because  the  new  knights  had  been  en- 
feoffed from  what  had  been  demesne  in  1 1 35.  Some  regarded 
the  new  fees  as  taken  out  of  the  1135  demesne  (which  is  what 

212.  Kennett  :  Par.  Antiq.,  147  with  transcript  of  charter. 

213.  Lib.  Rub.,  333. 

214.  Lib.  Rub.,  537. 

215.  Transcript  from  the  Boarstall  Cartul.  in  Kennett  :  Tar.  Antiq.,  209. 

216.  Liber  Rubeus,  321-324. 

217.  Liber  Rubeus,  71. 


186 


NOTE  viii  (SCUTAGE) 


actually  happened);  others  returned  them  as  separate  from  the 
1 190  demesne  (which  they  certainly  were).  In  the  table  sub- 
joined, V.  represents  the  old  fees  (de  Veteri),  N.  the  new  fees 
(de  Nouo),  D.  the  demesne  fees  (in  Dominio),  and  S.  the  sum 
(Summa)  which  the  tenant  in  six  cases  supplied  as  his  seruicium 
debitum. 


Carte  of  1166. 

En  try 
in  L.K. 

Scutage  of 

v 

M 

D 

0 

1190/1  in  P.R. 

Robt.  de  Albini 

13 

— 

12 

25 

— 

25  =VD 

Walt,  de  Wahull 

27 

If 

a, 

30 

— 

27  =V 

Sim.  de  Beauchamp 

36*  A 

8 

— 

Will,  de  Windsor 

16i 

Hi 

H 

m 

18£  =VD 

Will.  Mauduit 

If 

b 

if 

If  =V 

Gilbt.  de  Bolebec 

1 

1 

1  =V 

Walt,  de  Bolebec  (Vere) 

6 

c 

2 

2 

10 

a 

20 

10  =VND 

Will,  de  Sherington 

2 

2 

2  =V 

Ric.  s.  of  Nigel 

li 

e 

EfJ 

e 

Hi 

H  -V 

Hugh  de  Cahagnes 

[If] 

d 

Hamo  s.  of  Meinfelin 

mi 

Hi 

15 

15 

15  =VND 

Gilbt.  de  Pinkeny 

hi 

2 

13* 

13*  =VD 

a.  Wahull  should  have  returned      on  demesne. 

b.  Mauduit  enumerates  4  and  gives  their  sum  as  4*. 

c.  Given  in  royal  alms,  and  therefore  not  rendering  scutage  through 
Bolebec. 

d.  Demonstrably  incorrect;  the  correct  figures  are  in  the  scutage  column. 

e.  The  1*  V.  fees  have  been  shared  by  two  brothers. 

f.  Hamo  makes  V+N  =  i3*,  and  states  that  the  residuum  of  15  S.  ii 
on  demesne. 

When  the  Exchequer  came  to  charge'  scutage  on  the  fees 
thus  returned,  it  seems  either  to  have  been  confused  by  the 
different  forms  adopted  or  (which  is  much  less  likely)  to  have 
been  merciful  to  certain  debtors,  with  the  result  that 

Wahull  escaped  payment  for  N.D. 
Windsor  N. 
Beauchamp  ,,  N. 
Pinkeny  N. 


NOTES  :    vSii  to  viii  A/2c 


187 


and,  of  the  greater  landholders,  only  Bolebec  (Vere),  Hamo 
s.  of  Meinfelin,  and  (apparently)  Albini,  paid  the  full  amount 
expected  from  the  inquest  of  1166. 

viii  A,  B 

(36).  The  Scutage  of  Wales  was  at  10s.  on  the  fee.  The  list 
for  Bucks,  and  Beds,  is  set  out  in  Liber  Rubeus,  71  ;  it  contains 
some  errors,  and  omits  ncs.  15  16  17  of  our  Roll.  The  Honour 
of  Earl  Giffard  seems  from  its  non-appearance  here  to  have 
been  still  in  the  King's  hand.  This  scutage,  which  belongs 
to  the  autumn  of  1189,  was  due  to  "the  aggressive  attitude 
assumed  by  Res  of  South  Wales,  enraged  at  the  discourtesy 
with  which  his  attendance  at  Richard's  coronation  had  been 
treated  Prince  John  was  sent  against  him,  and  persuaded 
him  to  abandon  the  siege  of  Caermarthen.218 

viii  A/1 

(36).  The  early  pedigree  of  Albini  (d'Aubeny)  of  Cainhoe  has 
been  already  discussed.219  This  Robert,  who  pays  for  his 
Relief  on  inheritance  in  the  next  Roll  (37/ix/6),  is  the  son  of 
Robert  I  de  Albini,  the  founder  of  Beaulieu  Priory  co.  Beds. 
The  Barony  lay  chiefly  in  Beds,  and  included  25  fees. 

(39).  The  scribe  dropped  8d.  in  bringing  this  item  forward. 

viii  A/2 

(38).  This  interesting  list  shows  the  exemption  from  scutage 
for  those  tenants  of  the  Beauchamp  fief  who  went  in  person  on 
Crusade  with  Richard  Coeur  de  Lyon. 

viii  A/2a 

(38).  Guy  de  St.  Walery,  cadet  of  a  distinguished  family,  held 
the  manor  of  Aspley  Guise  and  lands  in  Henlow  of  this 
Honour.  He  married  Albreda  Taillebois,  who  on  his  death 
"in  John's  reign  remarried  Walter  de  Wahull.  Compare 
N/ixG/41  for  his  family  connections. 

viii  A/2b 

(38).  Miles  de  Beauchamp  is  probably  the  husband  of  Amabel 
de  Bidun  (N/ixA/i),  but  it  is  uncertain  what  (if  anything)  he 
held  from  Beauchamp  of  Bedford. 

viii  A/2c 

(38).  See  N/vi/4.  The  Passelewes  held  in  Biddenham  and 
Bromham  from  the  Honour  of  Bedford. 

218.  Eyton  :  Salt  Coll.  Staffs.,  ii,  pt.  1,  8. 

219.  Quarto  Mem.  B.H.R.S.,  i,  3  162  i,  and  pedigree;  viii,  p.  112, 


188 


NOTES  :   viii  A/2d  to  viii  A/3e 


viii  A/2d 

(38).  See  N/ixC/2.  The  family  held  of  the  Bedford  Barony 
in  Salford  and  Stotfold. 

viii  A/2e 

(38).  Probably  Scarnebroc  (mod.  Sharnbrook)  is  the  mutilated 
word,  where  Hugh  de  Beauchamp  held  a  little  land  at  D.B., 
but  his  descendants  accumulated  a  good  deal  more. 

viii  Xj2g 

(38).  Walter  Ruffus  and  Richard  Monachus  (le  Moine)  held 
from  the  Bedford  Barony  in  n66,220  the  latter  apparently  rn 
Chicksand.221 

viii  XJ2h 

(38).  Osbern  de  Broilg  (Brouay  in  Calvados)  held  of  Hugh  de 
Beauchamp  at  Domesday  in  Sharnbrook  and  Bletsoe. 

viii  A/3 

(36).  Simon  de  Wahull,  Baron  of  Wahull  (now  Odell  co.  Beds.) 
son  of  Walter  and  Roheise  de  Wahull  and  descendant  of  the 
Domesday  Baron  Walter  the  Fleming,  held  30  fees,  chiefly 
in  Beds,  and  Northants.  He  is  recently  dead  in  1 196 
(42/ixF/4).  Mr.  Farrer  has  recently  dealt  with  this  family 
and  its  Honour.221* 

viii  A/3a 

(38).  We  may  presume  that  Simon  and  the  rest  (except  the 
last)  were  also  on  Crusade. 

viii  A/3b 

(38).  Of  the  Malesoures  family  (which  left  its  name  on  Thoq^e 
Malsor)  a  complete  descent  from  the  Conquest  to  1227  will  be 
found  in  a  plea  already  published.222  They  held  manors  in 
Northants.  from  the  Wahull  Barony. 

viii  A/3d 

(38).  Probably  Bartholomew  de  la  Lega  (Thurleigh)  already 
mentioned  under  N/viiH/i. 

viii  A/3c 

(38).  The  Simon  son  of  Peter  who  held  a  half  fee  of  the 
Honour  of  Wahull  in  1 166223  was  probably  father  of  this  man. 

220.  Liber  Rubeus,  319,  320,  322. 

221.  B.H.R.S.,  i,  103,  104. 

221.  *  Honours  and  Knights'  Fees,  i,  61-102. 

222.  B.H.R.S.,  iii,  0.5. 

223.  Liber  Rubeus,  322. 


NOTES  :    viii  A/3f  to   viii  B/2 


189 


viii  A/3f 

;S).  Pateshull  (Pattishall  co.  Northants.)  was  held  from  the 
Wahull  Barony;224  not,  as  D.N.B.225  incorrectly  states  in  a  note 
on  this  Simon,  from  Dunstable  Priory,  which  had  only  rights 
in  the  church  there.  Simon  was  later  a  notable  Justice,  and 
Sheriff  of  Northants.  for  about  g  years.    He  died  about  12 17. 

viii  B/l 

(36).  This  family  de  Windsor  has  been  dealt  with  by  Dr. 
Round,226  from  whose  article  the  sketch  pedigree  has  been 
compiled,  except  for  the  addition  of  a  second  wife  to  the  second 
William;  she  is  supplied  by  the  Ladies'  Roll227  and  makes 
intelligible  the  rather  unusual  division  of  their  grandfather's 
Barony  between  two  brothers,228  of  which  we  find  traces  in  our 
Rolls.  The  family  were  herditary  Constables  of  the  Castle 
and  Keepers  of  the  Forest  of  Windsor ;  the  Barony  was  returned 
in  1 166  as  of  18^  fees,  of  which  Horton  Eton  Burnham  and 
Hardmead  were  in  Bucks. 

Walter  son  of  Other  —  Beatrice 
tenant  in  chief  1086 ;  I 
alive  after  1100  j 

=  William  son  of  Walter, 
J   flor.  1 1 16 — 1 142 

Cristina  de  Wiham  =  r.  William  de  Windsor,  2.  =  Haweise 
j     carta  of  1 166;  d.c.  11 76  j 

—  Walter  de  Windsor  William  de  Windsor  = 


viii  B/2 

(36).  William  Mauduit  I  (Maledoctus),  who  held  a  considerable 
estate  in  Hants,  at  Domesday,  was  the  first  of  a  line220  of 
hereditary  '  Chamberlains.'  The  meaning  of  this  term  at  any 
early  date  is  difficult  to  define;  it  seems  to  have  been  applied 
at  first  to  those  who  ministered  to  the  King  in  his  bed-chamber, 
where  also  his  treasure  lay,  and  we  find  both  chamber  and 
treasure  under  one  officer  in  the  description  of  one  well-known 

224.  D.B.,  i,  226b  (Pascelle) ;  Testa  de  Nevill,  30a. 

225.  D.N.B. ,  xliv,  29. 

226.  Ancestor,  i,  122-126. 

227.  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  35,  40,  88. 

228.  P.R.S.,  xxiii,  no,  in. 

229.  As  with  so  many  families,  Dr.  Round  has  illumined  their  earlier 
relations.    Cf.  Ancestor,  v,  207-210;  P.R.S.  xxxv  saepe. 


190 


NOTE  via  B/2  (MAUDUIT) 


chamberlain  as  '  Regis  cubicularius  et  thesaurarius.'230  With 
the  growth  of  the  Household  and  of  administrative  work,  t. 
personal  service  naturally  became  separated  from  the  financial 
office;  but  the  one  style  of  1  Cha.mberlain  '  was  given  alike  to 
a  great  ceremonial  officer  such  as  Aubrey  de  Vere,  1  camera  m: 
Anglic  '  and  Earl  of  Oxford,  to  an  active  officer  of  the  House- 
hold such  as  Geoffrey  de  Clinton,  and  to  minor  officials  of  the 
Exchequer  whom  we  see  convoying  treasure  in  transit.  As  to 
the  Mauduits,  it  is  by  no  means  clear  that  the  successive  genera- 
tions all  held  precisely  similar  offices  at  every  period  of  their 
lives,  but  the  grading  and  duties  of  early  '  chamberlains  '  have 
not  yet  received  their  due  attention. 

That  Will.  Mauduit  I  was  dead  by  1106,  is  shown  in  a 
charter  granted  by  Henry  I,  confirming  the  dower  of  his  widow 
Haweise.231  It  is  presumed  that  Ralf  Mauduit,  appointed 
Abbot  of  Athelney  by  Henry  I  in  1125,  was  his  brother. 23- 
William  was  succeeded  by  his  son,  Robert  Mauduit  I,  also  a 
chamberlain,  who  may  have  been  identical  with  a  man  drowned 
in  the  White  Ship,  but  was  certainly  dead  by  1130,  when 
William  Pont  de  l'Arche  offered  1000  m.  for  Robert's  office 
and  daughter;233  he  may  have  married  her,234  or  sold  her 
marriage;  certainly  he  obtained  the  office,  for  he  attests  as 
Chamberlain  in  1 132. 235 

Meanwhile  Will.  Mauduit  II,  Robert's  younger  brother, 
had  been  provided  for  by  a  good  match.  Michael  de  Hams- 
lape  (Hanslope,  co.  Bucks.),  who  attests  in  the  early  years  of 
Henry  I,  was  Constable  of  Rockingham  Castle  about  the 
middle  of  the  reign,  and  had  succeeded  to  the  Domesday 
estate  of  Winemar  the  Fleming  in  Bucks,  and  Northants.  ;236 
he  was  apparently  dead  by  1 128/9,  whereon  Henry  I  gave  his 
daughter  Matilda  and  her  lands  to  this  Will.  Mauduit,  to 
whom  in  1153  Henry  II  before  his  accession  confirmed  the 
Chamberlainship  1  according  as  his  brother  and  father  had 

230.  Chron.  Abingdon,  ii,  43. 

231.  Warwick  Cartulary,  Add.  MS.  2S024,  fo.  28. 

232.  Somerset  Rec.  Soc,  Chartul.  Athelney,  133. 

233.  P.R.  1 130,  Rec.  Com.,  37.  Incidentally  may  be  noted  that  this 
entry  seems  to  show  three  distinct  chamberlainships  of  differing  value  as 
then  purchased  by  William — the  ministerium  Roberti  Maledocti  (as  ab 

the  ministerium  camere  Curie  (for  twelve  marks  and  an  ounce  of  gold), 
and  a  second  ministerium  camere  Curie  for  his  brother  Osbert  (for  2m.  1  • 
gold).  Elsewhere  on  this  roll  (p.  105),  Geoffrey  de  Clinton,  also  styled 
camerarius  or  thesaurarius,  accounts  for  a  large  sum  offered  for  the  minis* 
terium  thesauri  Winton'. 

234.  His  matrimony  was  unfortunate;  cf.  Gesta  Stephani,  R.S.  82  iii,  9S. 

235.  Farrer  :  Itin.  lien.  I,  144. 

236.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  I,  272a;  V.C.H.  Northants.,  i,  342. 


NOTE  viiiB/2  (MAUDUIT) 


191 


held  it.'237  It  may  be  that  he  was  thus  promoted  to  higher 
office  in  the  Camera  on  the  death  of  Will.  Pont  de  l'Arche, 
who  still  attests  as  Chamberlain  between  1144  and  1 147. 238 
But  Will.  Mauduit  had  certainly  held  some  such  office  before, 
for  he  attests  as  Chamberlain  so  early  as  1 131, 239  and  in  1135 
is  named  as  an  officer  of  the  Camera,  personally  and  without 
title,  next  after  the  Master  Chamberlain  and  the  Treasurer, 
receiving  for  his  services  daily  is.  2d.,  his  commons,  and 
lights,  besides  two  sumpter  horses  with  their  forage  (presum- 
ably for  conveyance  of  treasure).240  He  was  still  paying  relief 
in  1 130  on  his  father's  Norman  lands  and  his  mother's  dower.241 

Will.  Mauduit  III  again  added  to  the  family  fortunes  by 
a  good  match,  espousing  Isabel,  sister  of  Simon  de  St.  Liz 
eighth  Earl  of  Huntingdon  (d.  1 184  s.p.),  who  brought  to 
him  further  property  in  Northants.  He  was  appointed  Cham- 
berlain about  1 158, 242  and  seems  to  have  used  Hanslope  as  a 
convenient  resting  place  for  bullion  in  transit,  for  the  payment 
is  recorded  "  for  convoying  a  hutch  of  treasure  from  Hames- 
clapa  to  Norhanton  and  thence  to  London"  in  1 168. 243  He 
returned  a  carta  of  4J  knights'  fees  on  the  Hanslope  fief  in 
1 166,  and  is  traceable  till  1 194/5,  but  in  1 195  was  succeeded 
by  his  son  Robert  Mauduit  II,244  as  appears  by  our  Rolls 
(4i/ixE/2).  Robert  was  Chamberlain  by  1197;245  he  married 
Isabella,  daughter  and  coheiress  of  Turstin  Basset  of  Clapham 
co.  Beds.,  and  died  in  1221. 

As  to  cadets  of  this  family — there  seem  to  have  been 
several  Mauduits  named  Robert,  at  present  hardly  definite 
enough  to  be  easily  disentangled.  An  entry  of  1 166, 246  dealing 
with  a  fee  which  had  long  before  passed  from  Robert  Mauduit 
to  Robert  Pont  de  l'Arche,  probably  relates  to  Robert  I.  A 
Robert  son  of  Will.  Maledoctus  who  held  a  half  fee  in  Weston 
(?  co.  Oxon.)  at  some  date  between  1100  and  I135247  may  also 
be  our  Robert  I.  Eyton  regards  as  a  second  son  of  William 
(?  of  William  II)  a  Robert  Mauduit  who  was  gaoler  of  Queen 
Eleanor  11 74-1 176,  who  convoyed  treasure  to  Oystreham  in 


237.  Warwick  Cart.,  fol.  21,  22. 

238.  Round  :  Geoff,  de  Mandeville,  234.. 

239.  Haskins  :  Norm.  Instit.,  302. 

240.  Constit.  Domus  Regis,  Liber  Rubeus,  8ix. 

241.  P.R.  1 1 30,  Rec.  Com.,  38. 

242.  Warwick  Cartul.,  fol.  28d,  29. 

243.  P.R.S.,  xii,  7. 

244.  Lib.  Rub.,  313,  90,  109. 

245.  P.R.S.,  xx,  129. 

246.  Lib.  Rub.,  206. 

247.  Abingdon  Chron.  (R.vS.  2),  ii,  135. 


192 


NOTJ5  vmB/2  (MAUDl/IT) 


a 
o 

>..£> 


Q  .r: 


ft  o 


o  2 


"  °  s 


~  c 

St-??. 


co  a 
o 

II   


•a  ^  »-i 

p  . 
c  a 

,*3  03  X) 

£5-  a  c? 


•5 .5.2 

XI  rt  S  O 


u  a 

i3  a! 


N  *- 

3§ 


L 


oc 


X) 


■o 

aw  a 
o  o 

M 


 Rt 


*  nUEQ 
^2  uR^-a 


:«■« 

-Alice  -  John  de 
—Maud  =  Hamo  s. 
-Sibil  =  Geoffrey 
o  o  5 

n  3  rt- 

-  *  >-»  8  £  . 

c  5  2 

J3  2  « 
q  cc  co 


Bidun 

of  Meinfelin 
Ridel 


If 

«5  to 
^  W 

■g  8 


NOTES  :    viii  B/3,   viii  B/5 


193 


1 173,  and  attests  as  Chamberlain  in  1 175  and  1 177, 248  but  gives 
no  reason  why  this  should  not  be  our  Robert  II.  An  apparently 
disconnected  Robert  holds  a  fee  at  Warminster  co.  Wilts,  in 
11S6/7,  succeeded  by  a  Thomas  Mauduit  in  1210/ 12. 249  A 
John  Mauduit  who  held  a  fee  from  the  Hanslope  barony  in 
1 166,  and  served  as  Justice  of  Assise  in  1173  and  1 1 74,  occurs 
from  1 1 54/5  !I74>  anc^  was  probably  a  younger  son  of 
Will.  Mauduit  II;250  he  seems  to  have  been  the  first  of  the 
Mauduits  of  Easton  Mauduit  co.  Northants.  (land  of  Winemar 
and  consequently  of  Michael  de  Hanslope),  which  was  held 
from  the  elder  branch.251 

viii  B/3 

(36).  Aubrey  de  Vere,  not  yet  second  Earl  of  Oxford,  was  son 
of  Aubrey  the  first  Earl  and  the  hereditary  Great  Chamberlain, 
by  his  third  wife.  The  families  of  Bolebec  and  Vere  occur 
so  much  in  the  early  history  of  Bucks,  and  Beds,  that  a  sketch 
pedigree252  will  be  found  useful.  The  first  Earl  Aubrey  had 
the  wardship  of  Isabel  de  Bolebec  the  younger,  and  by  a  not 
infrequent  practice  married  her  as  a  great  heiress  to  his  eldest 
son,  who  is  found  in  this  entry  to  be  paying  scutage  on  ten 
knights'  fees  for  her  Bucks,  lands;  on  her  death  without  issue, 
her  lands  passed  to  her  aunts,  whose  husbands  are  each  found 
holding  5  knights  of  the  barony  in  1210/12;253  one  of  these 
is  Robert  de  Vere  the  third  Earl  who  thus  secured  to  the 
family  at  least  a  half  of  the  Bolebec  inheritance.  (Compare 
N/viiiE/8). 

viii  B/5 

(36).  Kingseye  (Eya  Magna),  now  apparently  in  co.  Oxon., 
does  not  seem  to  have  been  identified  in  D.B.;25t  but  from  its 
name  and  from  its  being  held  in  chief,  it  is  probably  hidden 
among  the  lands  of  the  King  or  of  bis  officials  in  either  Bucks, 
or  Oxon. ;  a  late  inquisition  states  that  it  used  to  belong  to 
the  royal  manor  of  Brill.255  It  emerges  as  a  single  fee  held 
before  1 1 35  by  Herbert  de  Bolebec  (perhaps  a  son  or  younger 

248.  Eyton  :  Itin.  Henry  II,  175,  180,  193,  206. 

249.  Lib.  Rub.,  65,  481.  This  family  is  discussed  by  Eyton:  Shrop- 
shire, x,  6,  7. 

250.  Lib.  Rub.,  313,  655;  and  Eyton:  Itin.  Henry  II. 

251.  P.R.S.,  xi,  120. 

252.  Based  on  P.R..S.  xxxv,  p.  xli,  where  Dr.  Round  has  discussed 
the  families.    The  pedigree  is  on  p.  194. 

253.  Liber  Rubeus,  536. 

254.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  268b,  fuses  it  under  Eye  with  Towersey,  which 
remains  however  always  as  part  of  the  Albini  fief,  separate  from  Kingseye. 

255.  Hundred  Rolls  (Rec.  Com.),  i,  35. 


194 


NOTE   viii  B/3 


(BOLEBEC, 


VERE) 


E6o 


.gS 

8m 
6.9 


c3  O 

m£ 


j=  a 
K  2 


o 

a  - 


a  3 


©  - 

•a  ^ 


.2  °  to 


*4>  P 


•a 


II  


M  f3  «J 
X>   4)  — 


I>  CQ  fco  c 


m  k  ~ 

■3  S  0' 

-03 

!P  o 


C  « 

o  o 


ITS 


X 

o  OT 

•a  O 


SO 


•P 


w  o 


4)  *•»  c3  ** 


II 


t/5  O 


•  00 
4)  — - 

■O-W 
c  o  > 


as 

II 
© 

« s 

.5  ® 
w 


be 


NOTES  :    vi:J  R/S,   viU  B/6 


195 


brother  of  the  wealthier  Walter  de  Bolebec),  whose  son  Gilbert 
had  succeeded  by  i 760/1,  and  returned  his  fee  as  a  tenant 
in  chief  in  ii66.2oG  He  married  Richeut  or  Richelda  de 
Lorinton,257  born  about  1 145, 258  who  relaxed  her  dower  third 
under  conditions  to  her  son  in  up/,2"0  This  son  Herbert, 
horn  about  1167,  was  still  a  ward  in  11S5  to  William  de  Jar- 
punville  (N/ixA/13)  who  paid  10  marks  for  leave  to  marry 
liis  niece  to  him  (36/ixA/i5).  Herbert's  wife,  Alice  by  name, 
made  a  benefaction  in  Kimbie  to  Missenden  Abbey  with  the 
consent  of  Gilbert,  her  son  and  heir.260  The  latter  appears  as 
the  holder  of  Kingseye  in  1236, 261  but  about  1242  (unless  Wills, 
is  the  common  error  for  Cilbs.)  he  had  been  succeeded  by 
William  in  this  fee,262  which  is  still  traceable  in  the  family 
at  a  later  date.263 

Roger  son  of  Anketil 
=  Isabella 


=  Herbert  de  Bolebec, 
J   held  Kingseye  bcf.  1135 

Gilbert  de  Bolebec,  =  Richeut  de  Lorinton, 
fior.  1161 — 1171        j   b.c.  1145,  alive  1197 

Alice,  niece  of  =  Herbert  de  Bolebec 

Will,  de  Jarpunville  J    b.  c.  1 167 

Gilbert  de  Bolebec, 
held  Kingseye  1235/6 

Roger,  presumably  the  Roger  sort  of  Anketil  of  the  pedi- 
gree, held  at  Domesday  8  hides  in  Taplow  and  20  hides  in 
Weston  (Turville)  from  the  Bp.  of  Bayeux;  the  latter  also  held 
in  demesne  10  hides  in  Dileherst  (Penn).  This  is  no  doubt 
the  origin  of  the  Turville  fief  for  which  Herbert  de  Bolebec  sued 
in  1211/ 12  (see  N/viiiB/15). 

viii  B/6 

(36).  Richard  fitz  Nigel  (the  patronymic  appears  already  to 
have  become  a  fixed  surname)  in  1160/1  and  1166  held  l|  fees 

256.  Liber  Rubeus.  23,  52,  318. 

257.  Cart.  MissendeD,  f.  112. 

258.  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  43. 

259.  P.R.S.,  xx,  100;  or  Hunter's  Fines  (Rec.  Com.),  i,  156. 

260.  Cart.  Missenden,  ff.  iood,  101. 

261.  Bk.  Fees,  i,  464. 

262.  Testa  de  Nevill  (R.C.),  245. 

263.  Feudal  Aids,  i,  84. 


196 


NOTES  :    viii  B  6,  viii  B/7 


in  chief  in  Bucks,264  which  later  evidence  shows  to  have  heea 
in  Beachampton  and  Mursley  ;  they  are  therefore  presuniuL. . 
on  the  eight  hides  which  Lewin  (probably  a  Saxon  Leofwiru- 
held  in  1086. 265    Richard  seems  not  to  be  identical  with  };: 
contemporary  Richard  fitz  Nigel,  who  held  in  Tackley  co 
Oxon.  and  Kegworth  co.  Leic,  and  appears  in  the  Eynsha: 
Cartulary.     In    1165    and    for    some   years  afterwards  our 
Richard  appears  on  the  Rolls  for  100  marks  to  expedite  h 
suit  for  Iffley  co.  Oxon  (Iuittelai,  Juetelai,  etc.),266  a  ^u:\ 
which  he  eventually  won.    There  is  no  evidence  of  the  date  r>: 
his  death;  but  it  is  presumably  his  son,  Richard  fitz  Nigel  the 
second,  who  in  1 194/5  held  a  fee  in  Oxon.  as  well  as  the  li 
fees  in  Bucks.,  and  defended  a  suit  brought  by  Henry  d< 
Clinton  for  the  vill  of  Iffley  (Iuttele)  ;2G7  and  a  mutilated  entry 
shows  Henry  still  suing  for  a  fee  in  '  Iveclay  '  in  121 3. 208  Thi^ 
Richard  was  dead  by  1220,  when  the  Sheriff  was  ordered  to 
give  seisin  of  his  lands  to  his  daughter  Agnes  and  her  husband 
Reginald  Basset,269  against  whom  the  indomitable  Henry  de 
Clinton  brought  a  plea  for  '  Hiuetle  '  in  1 221. 270  Reginald 
was  dead  by  1233,  when  the  homage  of  Agnes  was  accepted 
for  her  hereditary  lands,  and  she  received  custody  of  her 
daughter  and  heiress;271  she  remarried  Warin  fitz  Gerold  the 
second  before  1242,  when  the  Bucks,  fees  become  clear  in  his 
tenure  as  Beachampton  and  Mursley,  and  he  is  also  found  to 
hold  Iffley  in  her  right.272 

viii  B/7 

(36).  Hugh  de  Cahaignes  (Kahaines  etc.  in  many  forms,  ulti- 
mately Keynes)  held  a  fee  at  Milton  Keynes  jointly  with 
Richard  de  Bereville  in  1165;273  in  1166  he  held  only  §ds.  of 
a  fee  there,  which  "  the  King  had  given  to  him  with  thr 
heiress "  Amabel  de  Bereville,  while  Agnes  de  Bereville, 
apparently  Richard's  widow  holding  in  dower,  had  the  remain- 
ing third  till  at  least  11 86/7. 274  Hugh  frequently  appears  for 
this  two-thirds  till  at  least.  1203/4,  but  in  12 10/ 1 2  we  find  his 

264.  Liber  Rubens,  23,  318. 

265.  V.C.Hv,  Bucks.,  1/275,  a,  b. 

266.  P.R.S.,  viii,  70. 

267.  Lib.  Rub.,  83,  90;  P.R.S.  xiv,  3. 

268.  Rot.  Obi.  Fin.,  507. 

269.  Exc.  Rot.  Fin.,  i,  42. 

270.  Bracton  :  Note  Book,  iii,  414. 

271.  Exc.  Rot.  Fin.,  i,  247,  262;  Bracton:  Note  Book,  iii,  128. 

272.  Testa  de  Nevill,  244,  252,  etc.,  and  101  ;  compare  Assise  Roll  $6. 
mem.  9. 

273.  P.R.S.,  viii,  23. 

274.  Lib.  Rub.,  316,  52,  59;  P.R.S.,  xviii,  52. 


NOTE   vmB/9  (PINKENY) 


197 


widow  Amabel  answering  for  the  land;275  by  1221  she  was 
dead  and  her  son  Luke  was  paying  for  his  relief  in  Middleton 
(Milton  Keynes).276  The  land  was  held  in  chief  from  the  King, 
and  is  therefore  probably  the  8-^-h.  held  by  Godric  Cratel  in 
D.B.277 

viii  B/9 

(36).  Ansculf  de  Pinkeny  (Domesday  Pinchengi,  modern  Pic- 
quigny)  had  been  Sheriff  of  Bucks  before  10S6,278  and  had  by 
then  died,  leaving  a  son  William  and  a  brother  Ghilo.  The 
estate  of  William  passed  to  the  Paynels  (N/viiiB/12),  but  that 
of  Ghilo  formed  the  Pinkeny  fief,  which  lay  chiefly  in 
Northants.  with  its  head  at  Weedon  [Pinkney],  but  included 
Datchet  Boveney  and  an  unnamed  holding  in  Bucks.279  Ralf 
de  Pinkeny,  probably  the  grandson  of  the  D.B.  Ghilo,  in 
H30280  owed  40m.  as  relief  on  succession  to  his  fathers  lands, 
and  20m.  that  he  might  marry  the  widow  of  Simon  de  Chaisne- 
doit  (Chenduit  of  Middleton  '  Cheney ').  His  successor,  Gil- 
bert de  Pinkeny,  was  Sheriff  of  Berks,  from  1158  till  1160, 
but  in  1 161  lost  his  shrievalty  and  was  amerced  iooli.281  His 
brother  Ralf  and  wife  Eustachia  are  mentioned  in  a  charter.282 
He  returned  a  carta  of  15  knights  in  1 1 66, 283  and  in  1 170 
served  on  the  Inquest  of  Sheriffs.284  It  seems  likely  that  by  a 
frequent  misreading  the  '  William  '  de  Pinkeny  who  is  assessed 
in  1 167/8  for  15  knights  in  Bucks,  and  Northants.285  is  an 
error  for  this  Gilbert.  Henry  de  Pinkeny  his  son  appears  on 
our  Rolls  as  assessed  at  13!  fees.  The  parentage  of  his  wife 
Lettice  is  not  certain,  but  it  seems  likely  that  she  was  a  de 
Luci;  he  received  with  her  a  fee  in  Cristehale  (Creshall  co. 
Essex),  and  apparently  a  share  in  Elmdon  in  that  country, 
held  of  the  Honour  of  Boulogne.286  His  son  Robert  de  Pin- 
keny made  fine  of  iooli.  for  his  father's  lands  in  1208/9, 287 
and  held  1$  fees  of  the  castle-guard  of  Windsor;288  he  died 

275.  Lib.  Rub.,  137,  536. 

276.  Exc.  Rot.  Fin.,  i,  68. 

277.  V.C.H.,  Bucks.,  i,  276a. 

278.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  256a. 

279.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  272b. 

280.  Pipe  Roll  1 130  (R.C.),  81. 

281.  P.R.S.,  iv,  ii. 

282.  Bitlesden  Cartul.,  fo.  21. 

283.  Lib.  Rub.  317. 

284.  Eyton  :  Itiu.  Hen.  II,  135. 
28$.  Lib.  Rub.,  37. 

286.  P.R.S.,  xxiv,  113;  Exc.  Rot.  Fin.,  i,  80;  Rot.  Obi.  Fin.,  151; 
Hunter  :  Fines,  i,  195. 

287.  Bk.  Fees,  i,  16,  note  2. 

288.  Lib.  Rub.,  532,  7x6;  Bk.  Fees,  i,  18. 


198 


NOTE   viiiB/9  (PINKENY) 


about  1 23 1/2. 289  The  fees  of  this  family  are  returned  in  125: 
as  Weedon  Wappenham  and  Barton  co.  Northts.,  Fulmar 
and  Datchet  co.  Bucks.,  Elmdon  and  Creshall  co.  Essex. 2*° 

So  far  all  is  fairly  clear,  but  there  seems  to  be  a  contem- 
porary Robert  son  of  Henry  de  Pinkeny.  In  1 166  Henry  son 
of  Robert  de  Pinkeny  held  5|  fees  from  Gilbert  on  the  Baron  v 
of  Weedon  Pinkney;  and,  as  Henry  de  Pinkeny,  he  held  simul- 
taneously i|  fees  of  the  Honour  of  Chokes;201  he  is  also  appar- 
ently the  man  who  suffered  a  forest  amercement  in  1 175/6  under 
the  style  of  Henry  de  Pinkeigni  de  Wiengrava  (Wingrave  co. 
Bucks.).292  In  a  lost  plea  of  1195  recently  found  in  a  later 
transcript,293  Robert  son  of  Henry  de  Pinkeny  brings  an  assise 
for  land  in  Wingrave;  this  enables  us  to  connect  him  with  the 
Robert  de  Pinkeny  of  4i/ixE/8,  who  is  sued  for  ii  fees  in 
Wengrava  and  Rullesham  (Wingrave  and  Rowsham).294  This 
holding,  we  learn  from  our  Roll  (36/viiiB/  14),  was  assessed 
at  i|  fees;  at  Domesday  it  was  held  by  Gunfrid  de  Cioches 
(Choques,  Chokes),  and  is  long  traceable  as  attached  to  the 
Honour  of  Chokes  and  its  successors  (Honour  of  Bethune  to- 
wards 1242,  through  de  Guisnes  to  de  Fiennes).295  Thi> 
second  Robert  son  of  Henry  seems  to  have  married  a  daughter 
of  Robert  de  Siffrewast  of  Chesham ;  with  his  brother  in  law 
William  de  Brocton  he  makes  offering-  for  §  fee  in  Chesham 


Ralf  de  Pinkeny  =  widow  of  Simon 
paid  for  relief  and  1   de  Chaisnedoit 
marriage,  11 30  ! 


Ralf  de  ^Pinkeny 


Eustachia  =  Gilbert  de  Pinkeny 
active  1158 — 1170 


Robert  de  Pinkeny 
dead  in  11 66 


Lett  ice 
[?  de  Luci] 


Henry  de  Pinkeny 
held  1  fee  in  1166, 
d.  c.  1208 


Gilbert 


Robert  de  Pinkeny 


Will,  de  Nowen 
(N/viiG/19) 


Henry  de  Pinkecy 
of  Wingrave  ; 
7  fees  in  1166 


Robert  de  Pinkeny 
?  mar.  dau.  of 
Robt.  de  Siffrewast 


289.  Exc.  Rot.  Fin.,  i,  235. 

290.  Inq.  post  mortem  (R.S.),  i,  80. 

291.  Lib.  Rub.,  317,  334. 

292.  P.R.S.,  xxv,  23. 

293.  Engl.  Hist.  Rev.,  xxxvii,  404.  The  original  has  since  been  di*" 
covered  at  the  Record  Office. 

294.  Rot.  Cur.  Re<y.  (R.C.)  ii,  190. 

295.  Testa  de  Nevill,  246a;  Feudal  Aids,  i,  78. 


NOTES  :    viii  B/9  to  viii  B/12 


199 


(44/ixH/ 12),  apparently  as  guardian  of  Richard  de  Siffrewast 
with  whom  he  concluded  a  concord  in  1 1 99. 29  6 

viii  B/9 

(38).  This  charge  was  quit  by  a  writ  in  R.  37,  but  continued 
to  be  demanded  till  R.  44,  when  the  Exchequer  awoke  to  the 
fact  that  it  was  not  due. 

viii  B/10 

(36).  Miles  de  Beauchamp,  son  of  Hugh  (II  E)  de  Beauchamp 
of  Eaton  [Socon]  and  Philippa  de  Trailli.  For  his  Bidun 
marriage,  see  N/ixA/i. 

viii  B/ll 

(36).  Hugh  (IV  E)  de  Beauchamp,  Baron  of  Eaton  [Socon],  is 
probably  assessed  here  for  his  land  at  Edlesborough,  Crown 
land  granted  by  Richard  but  resumed  by  Henry  III  on  his 
accession.297  The  Sheriff  appears  to  have  been  wrong  in  think- 
ing that  he  was  liable  for  Bidun  land,  for  which  his  uncles 
Miles  and  Richard  were  partly  responsible  (ixA/i). 

viii  B/12 

(36).  William  son  of  Ansculf  de  Pinkeny  (Pichengi,  Picquigny), 
a  pre-Domesday  Sheriff  of  Bucks.,298  held  in  1086  a  very  large 
estate  in  12  counties,  which  became  known  from  its  caput  or 
head  manor  as  the  Barony  of  Dudley,  co.  Wore.  This  barony, 
which  included  several  fees  in  Bucks.,  next  appears  in  the 
tenure  of  Fulk  Paynel  (Painel,  Paganell,  Pagnell)  who  is  barely 
mentioned  in  1130,2"  but  had  certainly  succeeded  William  at 
Barnack  by  a  very  early  date.300  Fulk's  parentage  has  not 
been  traced,  and  for  his  connections  we  have  had  to  use 
abstracts  of  charters  to  Tickford  Priory  (in  Newport  Pag- 
nell);301 the  pedigree  built  up  from  these  must  therefore  be 
regarded  as  tentative.  Fulk  Paynel  and  his  brother  William 
probably  both  married  the  heiresses  of  the  lordships  which  they 
acquired  in  the  time  of  Henry  I — Fulk  Paynel,  the  daughter 
of  William  son  of  Ansculf  of  the  Honour  of  Dudley,  William 
Paynel,  the  daughter  of  Walter  (Walscelin)  de  Douai  or  de 
Bampton  (Bahantune)  who  held  the  Honour  of  Bampton  co. 
Devon,  which  included  Bridgewater  and  Huntspill  co.  Somer- 

296.  Rot.  Cur.  Reg.,  ii,  145. 

297.  B.H.R.S.,  ii,  73-76,  for  both  Miles  and  Hugh  de  Beauchamp. 

298.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  256a. 

299.  P.R.  1 130  (R.C.),  75;  unfortunately  the  Worcs.  roll  for  this  year 
has  perished. 

300.  Northants.  Survey,  V.C.H.  Northants.,  i,  367b. 

301.  Mori.  Angl.,  v,  202;  Bad.  MS.  218S,  f.  125,  i25d  (reversed  in 
binding). 


200 


NOTE  viiiB/12  (PAYNEL) 


a 

& 
Cm 


4) 


a 

—On 


So 


a! 
-ft 

CO 

ft 


•o  ft 


ft  vo 
w 

_  03  m 


0)  a) 
O  4> 
Ml 

«« 

II 


O  Ov 
CO  « 


o 

5  s 


o  o 


>  «s  8 


ft  p 


•  •>  5 

•°  ? 
o 

ft  . 


CO 


NOTE   viiIB/12  (PAYNEL) 


201 


set.  The  two  families  seem  to  have  remained  in  touch  for  some 
generations,  each  attesting  charters  of  the  other;  both  were 
benefactors  of  the  Abbey  of  Marmoutier  at  Tours  (Maius  Monas- 
terium),  but  the  gifts  of  Fulk  and  his  descendants  were  diverted 
to  the  foundation  of  Tickford  Priory  as  a  cell  to  Marmoutier. 
These  gifts  are  set  out  in  a  confirmation302  by  Robert  Bishop  of 
Lincoln  (1148-1183);  in  Bucks.,  the  churches  of  Newport 
Chicheley  and  Astwood  and  the  chapels  of  Linford  and  Little 
Crawley,  as  well  as  the  churches  of  Bamack  and  Boddington303 
co.  Northants. ;  gifts  in  Bucks,  from  other  sources  are  also 
recounted  in  this  charter. 

Ralf  Paynell,  son  and  successor  of  Fulk,  threw  in  his  lot 
with  the  Empress  Matilda,  whose  charters  he  attests  in  1141 
and  1142;304  and  he  held  Dudley  Castle  for  her  against  Stephen 
in  1 138.  Most  chroniclers  of  the  time  record  that  '  Paganellus  ' 
held  Ludlow  Castle,  and  the  Waverley  Annalist  misled  his 
brethren  further  by  assuming  that  Gervase  Paynell  was  con- 
cerned, who  can  only  have  been  a  boy  at  that  date.  But 
Florence  of  Worcester305  rightly  says  that  Radulf  Paignel  held 
1  Duddelaege.'  He  is  said  to  have  married  a  daughter  of 
Earl  Ferrars.306 

Gervase  Paynell,  son  and  successor  of  Ralf,  was  active 
between  1 1 53  and  11 94  (Eyton),  and  was  already  in  Linford 
co.  Bucks,  in  1 163. 307  In  1 166  he  returned  a  carta  of  fifty 
knights'  fees  as  His  Barony;308  a  considerable  number  of  these 
have  been  identified  by  Eyton  as  in  Bucks.,309  and  are  reckoned 
towards  1242  at  about  12  fees,310  the  head  manor  of  Newport 
Pagnell  being  held  in  demesne.  In  1 173/4  he  joined  the  young 
Princes  against  their  father,  and  in  1175  had  in  consequence 
to  pay  a  fine  of  500  marks  to  recover  the  King's  favour.311 
He  founded  the  Priory  of  Dudley  as  a  dependency  of  Wenlock 
Abbey  about  11 82, 312  and  was  dead  by  1194.  His  wife  Isabel 
was  widow  of  Simon  de  St.  Liz  (d.  1 153),  5th.  Earl  of  Hunting- 
don, and  daughter  of  Robert  Earl  of  Leicester  (d.  1168);  his 
son  Robert  who  attested  the  foundation  charter  of  Dudley 
Priory  died  in  his  father's  lifetime.      The  Barony  then  fell 

302.  Cal.  Doc.' France,  i,  44;  or  Stapleton,  Holy  Trinity  York,  30. 

303.  V.C.H.  Northants.,  i,  369b. 

304.  Round  :  Geoff,  de  Mandeville,  94,  171,  183,  286. 

305.  Edition  of  Roy.  Hist.  Soc,  ii,  no. 

306.  Stapleton  :  Rot.  Scacc.  Norm.,  i,  p.  Ixxix. 

307.  P.R.  Soc.,  vi,  19. 

308.  Lib.  Rub.,  269. 

309.  Salt  Coll.  Staffs,  i  (1),  188  et  seq.    See  list  below. 

310.  Testa  de  Nevill,  248a. 

311.  P.R.  Soc.,  xxii,  69. 

312.  Mon.  Angl.,  v,  83;  and,  for  the  date,  Eyton:  Shropshire,  ii,  52. 


202 


NOTE   v;'iB/I2  (PAYNEL; 


to  Ralf  de  Somen,  ^on  of  John  de  Someri  and  Haweise  sister 
of  Gervase  Paynell,  who  paid  scutage  for  the  Bucks,  fees  in 
1 194  (40/viiiC/ 12). 

As  this  is  one  of  the  important  Baronies  of  Bucks,  in  early 
time,  it  seems  worth  while  to  reproduce  (with  very  slight 
alteration),  the  identifications  which  Mr.  Eyton  furnished  for 
the  carta  of  1 166. 


in  demesne 

Peter  de  B.rermmp-ham 
Giffard  de  Tiringham 

if  t  > 

Payn  de  Emhettcne 
Meinfelin  de  Ovinges 

t t  ft 

Ric.  de  Dittone 

Will,  nlius  Widonis 
Gervase  de  Bernec 

» >  a 
Ralf  Mansel 

Will.  Paganel 

Will,  de  Lovente  \ 

Mich,  films  Osberti  J 
Walt.  Mansel 


Newport  Pagnell*t 

Hoggestonf 

Tyringham*t 

Crawley* 

Emberton 

Oving 

N.  Marstont 
Stoke  Pogeyst 
Dittont 
Edlesboroughf 
Gt.  Hampdenf 
Milton  Keynes t 
Woolstonet 
Chicheley,*f  part 
Chicheley,*t  part 
Petsoe* 
BradwelPt 

Caldecotef  by  Newport 
Soulbury* 


Those  marked  with  an  asterisk  occur  also  in  the  confirma- 
tion charter  of  Robert  [de  Chesney],  Bp.  of  Lincoln,  which  1* 
dated  as  ?  1 151-1 1 54  ;3ir%  which  also  furnishes  as  further  lands 
of  this  Barony 

Linfordf  Willen 
Astwood  Broughton 
Sherington 

Those  marked  with  a  dagger  are  mentioned  as  lands  of 
Will,  son  of  Ansculf  in  1086  by  Domesday  Book;  this  further 
lists  among  his  lands314 


Hollingdon  in  Soulbury 
Littlecote  in  Stewkley 
Cheddington  (|  hide) 
Swanbourne  (1  virgate) 

besides  several  unidentified  holdings. 


Marsh  Gibbon  (4  hides) 
Tickford  by  Newport  (5  hides} 
Hardmead  (2  hides) 


313.  Round  :  Ca!.  Doc.  France,  i,  444. 

314.  V.C.Ii.  Bucks.,  i,  254-257. 


NOTES  :    via  B/13   to  viii  B/14c 


203 


viii  B/13 

(36).  Henry  de  Novo  Mercato  (or  Neufmarche)  appears  in  the 
Bucks.  Scutages  up  to  1 196/7  as  holder  of  one  knight's  fee.315 
In  the  fourth  year  of  John  this  entry  is  apparently  represented 
by  the  quittance  by  writ  of  Will  "  de  novo  foro."316  In 
1208/9  James  de  Novo  Mercato  is  recorded  as  holding  Herd  wye 
in  chief,  "  set  caput  est  alibi."317  In  1242  the  fee  in  Herdwyk 
is  held  by  Ralf  Russel  and  Nicholas  de  Mules.318 

This  succession  identifies  the  subject  of  the  entry  as  the 
head  of  the  West  Country  family.  It  appears  from  entries 
on  the  Pipe  Rolls,  in  respect  of  their  Gloucestershire  Somerset 
and  Berkshire  lands,  that  Henry  died  about  1 199  and  was 
succeeded  by  his  son  William,319  who  in  turn  was  succeeded 
by  his  brother  James  in  1204. 320 

James  apparently  left  no  sons;  his  daughters  Isabel  and 
Matildis  (or  Hawise)  married  respectively  '  with  the  counsel 
of  King  Henry  '  Ralf  Russel  and  John  de  Boterell,  who  seem 
to  be  holding  their  wives'  lands  in  12 19. 321 

This  fee  in  Hardwick  appears  to  be  part  of  the  19  hides 
held  by  Turstin  son  of  Rolf  in  1086. 322 

viii  B/14a 

(36).  This  may  be  Aubrey  Earl  of  Oxford  (N/viiiB/3),323  or 
Aubrey  Count  of  Danmartin  who  held  a  little  land  in  Beds, 
and  Oxon.324  (N/xiiiC/7). 

viii  B/14b 

(36).  Agnes  de  Montchensy  was  daughter  of  Payn  fitz  John325 
and  sister,  ultimately  heiress,  of  Cecily  wife  of  Earl  Roger  of 
Hereford.  In  this  entry  she  is  presumably  assessed  on  her 
dower  as  widow  of  Halenad  de  Bidun  (see  N/ixA/i),  and 
appears  in  II 85  as  aged  i  60,'  holding  in  Bucks,  the  manor 
of  Dunton  as  well  as  lands  in  other  counties.326 

viii  B/I4c 

(36).  By  the  small  assessment  (2s.  for  1/5  fee)  it  seems  probable 
that  this  Robert  son  of  Roger  was  not  the  ancestor  of  the 

315.  Lib.  Rub.,  pp.  71,  90,  109. 

316.  Pipe  Roll  48,  m.2d. 

317.  Book  of  Fees,  i,  p.  20. 

318.  Testa  (1S07),  p.  246a. 

319.  Pipe  Roll  45,  m  17. 

320.  Pipe  Roll  50,  Dors,  and  Sum. 

321.  Book  of  Fees,  i,  262. 

322.  V.C.H.,  Bucks.,  i,  267a. 

323.  D.N.B.,  lviii,  220. 

324.  Add.  Ch.  (Brit.  Mus.)  11233,  11239. 
32$.  D.N.B.,  xix,  184. 

326.  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  pp.  xli-xlv,  50. 


204 


NOTES  :    \Vn  B/14d   to   via  B/15 


Clavering  family,  but  one  who  held  a  small  tenancy  in  chief 
at  Pykeshull,  now  m  Turvey  and  Bromham  co.  Beds.327  for  a 
fifth  of  a  fee,  part  of  the  Honour  of  Peverel  of  Dover. 

viii  B/14d 

See  N/viiiB/9. 

viii  B/I4e 

(36).  The  Advocate  of  Bethune,  elder  brother  of  Baldwin  de 
Bethune  (N/iiD/12).  It  is  not  obvious  in  what  manor  this 
I  fee  lay.  In  a  later  Roll  (40/xiiiB/i)  he  is  found  to  have 
held  in  Olney. 

viii  B/14f. 

(36).  John  Vis  de  Loup  may  be  the  son  of  Maud  daughter  of 
John  de  Bidun  (probably  not  of  the  John  de  Bidun  of  N/ixA/i 
below),  who  was  aged  22  in  11 85  ;328  he  was  apparently  succes- 
sor of  Humfrey  Vis  de  Loup  who  was  scutaged  for  |  fee  111 
Bucks,  in  1160/1  and  117 1/2. 329 

viii  B/14g 

(36).  John  de  Cranford  has  not  so  far  been  traced.  But,  in 
the  ninth  year  of  John,  Roger  de  Cranford  was  party  to  two 
fines,  respectively  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Scottele  [the  Domesday 
Sortelai]  and  Dodereshull,  Bucks,  and  of  3  hides  in  Dodeshill 
Bucks.330  In  each  case  Roger  retained  the  parcels.  He 
vouched  to  warranty,  in  support  of  his  title  to  the  knight's 
fee,  Walter  de  Clifford,  who  gave  him  his  warranty.  The  aids 
of  19  and  20  Hen.  Ill331  show  Roger  de  Craunford  as  holding 
half  a  fee  in  Doddingeshull.    Possibly  John  was  Roger's  father. 

viii  B/15 

(36).  The  first  Geoffrey  de  Turville  whom  we  have  been  able 
to  trace,  was  blinded  by  Henry  I  in  1124  for  his  share  in  the 
last  Norman  rebellion,  in  spite  of  the  remonstrances  against 
such  cruelty  by  the  Count  of  Flanders;332  in  this  revolt  he 
probably  followed  Waleran  de  Beaumont,  Count  of  Meulan, 
for  the  Turvilles  long  appear  as  adherents  of  the  Beaumont 
family  and  tenants  of  their  Honour  of  Leicester.  This  may 
be  the  same  Geoffrey  as  was  pardoned  on  Danegeld  in  Bucks, 
and  three  other  counties  in  1130.353     Geoffrey  de  Turville, 

327.  B.H.R.S.,  v,  221  note. 

328.  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  41,  42. 

329.  P.R.S.,  iv,  12;  Liber  Rubens,  23,  52.  For  this  family  and  Honour 
see  Farrer,  Hon.  Kt.  Fees,  i,  54-60. 

330.  Hunter's  Fines,  i,  243. 

331.  Testa  de  Nevill  (1807),  p.  258;  Book  of  Fees,  i,  467,  471. 

332.  Orderic  (ed.  Forester),  iv,  75,  76. 

333.  P.R.  1 130  (R.C.),  io2. 


NOTE  viiiB/15  (DE  TURVILLE) 


205 


probably  a  son  of  the  last,  attested  a  charter  of  Robert  de 
Beaumont  Earl  of  Leicester  to  Fontevrault  between  1155  and 
1159334;  in  1 166,  owing  to  the  absence  of  a  carta  of  the  Leices- 
ter Honour,  he  appears  only  as  holding  1  fee  of  the  Earl  of 
Warwick;  he  seems  also  to  have  held  in  Helmdon  co.  Northants. 
in  1 162/3. 335  But  we  can  trace  a  Geoffrey  de  Turville  already 
at  Weston  (Turville)  in  1 173/4,  when  among  allowances  to 
the  Sheriff  we  read  "  And  for  custody  of  the  castle  of  Weston 
which  was  of  Geoffrey  de  Turville  before  it  was  razed,  59s.  6d. 
by  King's  writ";336  this  seems  to  imply  that  he  had  ranged 
himself  with  the  Earl  of  Leicester  on  the  side  of  the  Princes 
against  Henry  II  in  that  year's  revolt.  In  connection  with 
this  castle — lands  were  sometimes  granted  to  tenants  by  the 
King  or  by  nobles  on  the  condition  of  c  castle-guard,'  that  is, 
of  manning  some  castle  for  a  prescribed  period  in  each  year. 
This  tenure  is  familiar  enough  in  the  case  of  important  strong- 
holds such  as  Dover  or  Windsor.  But  it  is  interesting  to  find 
it  applied  to  so  insignificant  a  fortress  as  that  of  Weston 
Turville,  where  Geoffrey  granted  a  hide  of  his  demesne  land 
to  one  John  de  Leia,  and  "  John  and  his  heirs  will  do  for 
me  guard  (stacionem)  in  the  castle  of  Weston,  in  time  of  war 
for  40  days  with  charger  and  sumpter-horse,  and  in  time  of 
peace  for  3  weeks. 33 7 

The  next  generation,  that  of  our  Rolls,  is  attested  by 
several  documents338  relating  to  the  advowsons  of  Chalfont  (St. 
Peter)  and  Weston  (Turville) ;  the  two  following  generations 
are  vouched  by  later  pleas.339  William,  who  occurs  on  our 
Rolls,  can  be  traced  from  1190  to  1217;  he  appears  to  have 
married  a  considerable  heiress  in  Warwickshire  named  Isabella, 
whose  parentage  has  evaded  our  quest  (compare  N/xA/i). 
She  brought  as  her  marriage  portion  (at  least)  the  manors  of 
Fullbrook  Willey  and  [  ?]  Pailton,  wThich  her  husband  had 
pledged  to  Aaron  of  Lincoln  (37/xA/i).  In  12 10/ 12  William 
is  returned  as  holding  no  less  than  19  fees  of  the  Honour  of 
Leicester,340  and  the  majority  of  these  seem  likely  to  have  been 
of  his  wife's  inheritance.  We  find  him  also  on  the  holding 
of  his  father  Geoffrey341  at  Helmdon  co.  Northants.,  which 

334.  Cal.  Doc.  France,  377. 

335.  P.R.S.,  vi,  41. 

336.  P.R.S.,  xxi,  82.  For  a  description  of  the  present  state  of  the 
castle,  see  Hist.  Monuments  Comm.,  Bucks.,  i,  316,  317. 

337.  Cartul.  Missenden,  fo.  59. 

33S.  P.R.S.  xiv,  122,  123  (1195)  ;  xvii,  153  (1 196) ;  xxiv,  234  (119S); 
Hunter,  Fines  i,  153,  154;  Cart.  Missenden,  fo.  58,  580!  (1182/3). 

339.  Cur.  Reg.  Roll  81,  mem.  8;  Bracton,  Note  Book,  iii,  231. 

340.  Lib.  Rub.,  533,  552. 

341.  P.R.S. ,  vi,  41. 


206 


NOTE  m  B/15  (DE  TUftVILLE) 


H 

I" 

o 


*»  2 


 Jtt. 


"2 

o  3 


o 


O  en 
II 


O  k 


NOTES  :    viii  B/15,   viii  B/16 


207 


he  pledged  to  Aaron  by  a  separate  transaction  (37/XA/2); 
his  appearance  for  this  land  in  the  44  Northamptonshire  Sur- 
vey 93  is  evidently  one  of  the  later  corrections  of  the  original 
roll,  but  his  father  or  grandfather  Geoffrey  remains  uncorrected 
at  Celuerdescote  (?  Celnerdescote),  a  lost  manor  which  is 
entered  next  to  Helmdon  both  in  D.  B.  and  the  Northants. 
Survey  and  may  be  identical  with  the  Chelmescote  (mod. 
Chelmscott  co.  Warws.)  which  William  pledged  to  the  Earl 
of  Warwick.352  William*  de  Turville  held  in  Bucks.,  besides 
his  little  hereditary  fief  of  Weston,  the  important  manors  of 
Penn  and  Taplow ;  for  these  he  was  sued  by  Herbert  de  Bolebec 
of  Kingseye  in  1211/12.343  The  pleading  does  not  make  the 
ground  of  action  clear,  but  it  obviously  centres  in  some  Turville 
connection  with  the  Isabella  of  the  Bolebec  pedigree 
(N/viiiB/5);  the  suit  was  unsuccessful,  and  the  Turvilles  still 
held  in  Penn  and  Taplow  in  13 16. 344  The  family  presents 
some  difficulty,  but  the  preceding  pedigree  is  believed  to  be 
accurate  as  far  as  it  goes. 

viii  B/16 

(36).  The  Mansel  holding,  in  respect  of  which  William  le 
Mansel  pays  scutage,  was  one  fee  in  Shenley.  At  Domesday 
Earl  Hugh  has  two  areas  in  Senelai,  one  of  2  hides  and  one 
of  5. 345  Both  are  in  the  hands  of  a  tenant  also  named  Hugh. 
In  the  account  of  the  f  1242  '  scutage  Thomas  le  Mansel  is 
returned  as  holding  the  fee  in  Schenle  of  the  earl  of  Arundel  ;346 
and  in  39  Hen.  Ill  he  is  described  as  "  dominus  ville  "  and  is 
holding  of  the  Honour  of  Chester.  This  is  the  Shenley  in 
Sigelai  Hundred,  presumably  the  northernmost  part  of  the 
parish.  In  11 82-3  William  Mansel  accounts  in  the  Pipe  Roll 
for  Bucks,  and  Beds,  for  two  marks  to  have  his  plea  against 
John  de  Cauerton  of  land  in  '  Schenlega  9  removed  to  the  King's 
Court.347 

William  appears  to  have  died  during  Richard's  reign  and 
to  have  been  succeeded  by  Thomas:  in  1 198  two  fines  were 
passed,  one  of  6  virgates  and  15  acres  of  land  in  Senelege, 
and  the  other  of  40  shillings  rent  in  1  Schenle,'  both  of  which 
resulted  in  quitclaims  to  Thomas  Mansel  and  his  heirs.348  The 
claimant  in  the  latter  case  was  another  Mansel,  named  Nicho- 

342.  V.C.H.  Northants.,  i,  322,  369,  372;  P.R.S.,  x,  93. 

343.  Cur.  Reg.  Roll  55,  mem.  8. 

344.  Feudal  Aids,  i,  114. 

345.  V.C.H. ,  Bucks.,  i,  p.  247a. 

346.  Testa  de  Nevill  (1807),  pp.   244b,  252b. 

347.  P.R.S.,  xxxii,  p.  Si. 

34S.  Hunter's  Fines,  i,  162,  176. 


208 


NOTES  :    viii  B,  17,  vlii  C 


las.  Thomas  appears  to  have  continued  in  possession  for  a 
number  of  years.  He  is  returned  in  20  Hen.  Ill  as  holding 
the  fee  in  Schenle,  of  the  Barony  of  Hugh  de  Albineto  or 
Albinico.349 

viii  B/17 

(36).  The  family  of  Gargate  were  knights  of  the  Abbey  of 
Peterborough,  holding  in  Warmington  and  Irthlingborough  co. 
Northants.  for  one  fee.350  According  to  Hugh  Candidus, 
writing  about  1 150, 351  the  first  was  Robert  Gargate,  and  a 
Robert  was  amerced  in  Northants.  in  1 168,  1176,  and  1 179. 352 
From  other  sources  we  learn  that  Hugh  comes  into  Bucks,  by 
marriage  with  the  heiress  of  Caversfield  which  was  then  i  in  ' 
Bucks. ;  his  father  Roger  was  presumably  son  of  Robert. 
Roger  Gargate  =  Agnes 


Hugh  Gargate  =  Sybil  de  Caversfield 


 =  Isabella  Muriel  =  Will,  de  Ros 

Sibil  and  her  daughters  were  benefactresses  to  Missendcn 
Abbey353  and  to  Bicester  Priory.354  Hugh  seems  to  have  been 
alive  in  12 16,  but  was  dead  by  1220, 355  survived  by  his  wife. 
Caversfield  was  a  manor  of  Earl  Warenne  at  D.B.,  and  it 
seems  likely  that  its  assignment  to  the  Honour  of  '  Warwick  ' 
towards  1242356  is  due  to  faulty  expansion  of  War.' 

viii  C 

(40).  The  Scutage  for  Ransom,  at  20s.  on  the  fee,  was  prob- 
ably put  in  charge  in  the  autumn  of  1 193  on  the  return  of 
Hubert  Walter  from  visiting  the  King  in  his  captivity.  The 
sum  stipulated  for  by  the  Almainers  was  150,000m.  (ioo,oooli.), 
of  which  two  thirds  were  to  be  paid  before  the  King's  release.357 
A  parallel  list  to  the  present  is  to  be  found  in  Liber  Rubeus, 
90,  91  ;  this  agrees  generally  (but  not  always  in  spelling)  with 
our  Roll,  except  in  substituting  Earl  David  [of  Huntingdon] 
for  Earl  Warenne. 

349.  Bk.  Fees,  i,  465,  467,  471. 

350.  Chron.  Petroburgense  (Camd.  Soc),  17611. 

351.  Sparke  :  Hist.  Angl.  Script.,  61. 

352.  P.R.S.,  xii,  55;  xxv,  51;  xxviii,  65. 

353.  Cartul.  Missenden,  folia  i26d,  i27d. 

3554.  Kennett  :  Paroch.  Antiq.,  189-192,  with  text  of  charters. 

355.  Exc.  Rot.  Fin.,  i,  43. 

356.  Testa  de  Nevill,  243b;  compare  Feud.  Aids,  i,  87. 

357.  Eyton  :  Salt  Coll.  Staffs.,  ii  (1),  3^,  39. 


NOTES  ?    viiiC/3  to   vili  C  18a 


209 


viii  C/:; 

(40).  Simon  de  Wahuli  being  apparently  on  Crusade  when  the 
scutage  was  levied  (3S/viiiA/3),  the  fees  of  the  Barony  are 
entered  against  Walter  de  Wahull;  this  may  imply  an  un- 
noticed brother  of  Srmon,  for  his  father  Walter  seems  to  have 
been  long  dead. 

viii  C/4 

(40).  Peter  de  Surive  (or  perhaps  Suririe),  a  royal  ward  in 
1 1 85, 358  held  a  half  fee  in  Wymmton  of  the  Honour  of  Peverel 
of  Dover. 

viii  C/6 

(40).  This  probably  refers  to  the  holding  of  the  family  de 
Pabenham  in  Carlton,  held  under  the  Honour  of  Peverel  of 
Dover.359 

viii  C/13 

(40).  William,  Advocate  of  Bethune  or  of  Arras,  was  elder 
brother  of  Baldwin  de  Bethune.    Compare  N/iiD/12. 

viii  C/I6 

(40).  John  de  Builli  (Bush,  etc.)  received  about  1 1 82  through 
his  marriage  with  Cecily  de  Buissei  at  Chawston  in  Roxton 
a  small  share  of  the  Beds.  Honour  of  Wardon,  which  itself 
was  the  de  Buissei  share  of  the  Domesday  fief  of  William 
Spech.  He  was  lord  of  Kimberworth  co.  Yorks.,  and  Constable 
of  Scarborough  Castle;  and  appears  to  have  come  of  a  cadet 
branch  of  the  family  de  Busli  of  Tickhill.300 

viii  C/17 

(40).  As  nos.  4  5  and  6  appear  to  be  of  the  Honour  of  Peverel 
of  Dover,  this  entry  probably  refers  to  the  Honour  of  Peverel 
of  Nottingham,  set  out  for  io36  m  V.C.H.,  Bucks.,  i,  253,  254, 
and  V.C.H.,  Beds.,  i,  236;  and  recently  discussed  by  Mr. 
Farrer.361 

viii  C/18 

(40).  The  names  of  men  actually  serving,  in  person  or  by 
deputy,  would  be  notified  by  the  Marshal  of  the  host  to  the 
King  or  Viceroy,  who  would  inform  each  Sheriff  by  writ  of 
their  exemption  from  scutage — '  isti  habent  quietanciam  per 
breue.'  The  majority  of  the  men  in  this  list  appear  to  be 
overlords  rather  than  lords  of  the  manors  concerned. 

viii  C/18a 

(40).  For  Richard  de  Clare,  Earl  of  Hertford,  and  of  Glouces- 

358.  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  31,  32. 

359.  B.H.R.S.,  v,  24411. 

360.  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  11,  12. 

361.  Farrer:  Honours  and  Knights'  Fees,  i,  146-259. 


210 


NOTES:    vinC/lSf  to  via  G/18h 


ter,  see  N/viiiD/  iCjg.  His  descent  from  Roheise,  sister  of  the 
second  Walter  Gift  aid,  has  been  set  out  by  Dr.  Round.362 

viii  C/iSf 

(40).  The  style  of  Count  of  Aumale, 303  often  improperly  written 
Earl  of  Albemarle,  was  taken  from  Aumale  on  the  river  Brele 
in  Normandy.  Through  Adelaide,  sister  of  William  the  Con- 
queror, the  county  descended  to  Stephen  Count  of  Aumale 
(died  circa  1127),  her  son  by  her  third  husband  Eudes  Count 
of  Champagne.  Stephen's  son,  William  1  le  Gros '  (d.  1 1 79), 
by  his  wife  Cicely  the  grand-daughter  Gf  Cicely  de  Roumelli 
the  Lady  of  Skipton,  left  a  daughter  Haweise,  who  carried  the 
county  of  Aumale  and  the  Roumelli  lordship  of  Skipton  to 
her  three  husbands  in  succession. 

William  le  Gros  =  CiceJv 
Count  of  Aumale 

Haweise  =  i.  Will,  de  Mandeville,  3d.  Earl  of  Essex,  d.  1189. 
=  2.  Will,  de  Forz,  d.  1195. 

=  3.  Baldwin  de  Bethune,  d.  1212. 


Will,  de  Forz,  William  the      =  Alice 

titular  Count  Marshal  II,  2nd 

of  Aumale  Earl  of  Pembroke 

d.  1231. 

The  present  Count  of  Aumale  is  therefore  William  de 
Forz.  Lavendon  and  Weston  Underwood  in  Bucks.,  Hus- 
borne  Crawley  and  Flitwick  in  Beds.,364  came  to  be  of  this 
Honour,  but  were  not  so  at  Domesday. 

viii  C/!8g 

(40).  Hamelin,  an  illegitimate  son  of  Geoffrey  Plantagenet 
Count  of  Anjou,  by  his  marriage  with  Isabella  daughter  and 
heiress  of  William  de  "Warenne  the  third  Earl  of  Surrey, 
acquired  the  Warenne  estates  of  60  knights'  fees,365  and  re- 
founded  the  Warenne  family.  In  our  counties  he  only  held 
apparently  in  Bucks,  at  Caversfield,  and  in  Beds,  at  Tillbrook 
with  lands  at  Dean  Pertenhall  and  Lit.  Staughton  as  part  of 
the  Honour  of  Kimbolton. 

viii  C/I8h 

(40).  Gilbert  Basset,  lord  of  Bicester,  son  of  Thomas  Basset 

362.  Feudal  England,  469-473. 

363.  Complete  Peerage  (ed.  Gibbs),  under  Aumale. 

364.  Testa  de  Nevill,  243a,  244b,  252a. 

365.  Liber  RubeuS,  204. 


NOTES  :    viH  C  18m   to  viii  C/18q 


211 


of  Bicester  (d.c.  1181/2)  and  Alice  de  Dunstanville,  held  7 
fees  of  the  Honour  of  Wallingford ;  he  was  accountant  of  this 
Honour  from  1180  to  1 187,  and  was  much  busied  in  administer- 
ing- wardships  and  escheated  estates  (for  example  39/iiD/n). 
He  appears  here  as  owing  military  service  in  Bucks.,  probably 
for  lands  in  Waddesdon  and  Westcote  which  were  part  of  the 
portion  of  his  wife  Egelina  de  Courtenai,306  widow  of  the  last 
Walter  de  Bolebec  (N/viiiB/3);  and  for  land  at  Holmere  Green 
near  Missenden  which  was  part  of  his  own  fee.367  With  his 
wife  he  founded  the  Priory  of  Bicester.  He  died  about  1204/ 5, 
leaving  a  daughter  Eustachia  as  sole  heiress  (N/ixD/6). 

viii  C/18m 

(40).  Will,  de  Alben'  possibly  stands  for  Will,  de  Albini,  Earl 
of  Arundel  and  Sussex,  who  died  on  24th.  December  of  this 
fiscal  year.  For  his  holding  in  these  counties,  see  the  next 
note.  But  the  entry  may  refer  to  William  de  Albini  (Brito) 
of  Belvoir,  the  probable  Sheriff  of  a  later  year  (N/i/44). 

viii  C/I80 

(40).  Of  the  three  Domesday  holdings  of  Earl  Hugh  of  Ches- 
ter (d.  1101)  in  Bucks.,  Mentmore  remained  with  the  Chester 
Honour  till  a  later  date;368  but  Shenley  and  Great  Brickhill 
seem  to  have  passed  with  Mabel,  daughter  of  Hugh  de  Kivelioc 
the  fourth  Earl,  to  her  husband  William  de  Aubigny  of  Arun- 
del369 above  mentioned  (N/viiiC/i8m). 

viii  C/ISp 

(40).  Hugh  Wake,  probably  son  of  the  earlier  Hugh  Wake  of 
Bourne  co.  Lines,  and  brother  of  Baldwin  Wake,  by  his  mar- 
riage with  Matilda  de  Buissei  acquired  the  larger  share  of  the 
Honour  of  Wardon  in  Beds.,  at  Steppingley  Wardon  and 
Southill  (compare  N/viiiC/16). 

viii  C/18q 

(40).  The  Fief  of  Say  in  Bucks.,  so  far  as  it  can  be  extracted 
from  the  list  of  the  M  1242  "  scutage  given  in  the  Testa  de 
Nevill,  consisted  then  of  the  five  holdings  set  out  below,  side 
by  side  with  the  Domesday  entries  relating  to  the  same  fees. 

Geoffrey  de  Say,  the  subject  of  our  entry,  was  younger 
son  of  William  de  Say  and  Beatrice,  sister  of  the  notorious 
Geoffrey  de  Mandeville,  first  Earl  of  Essex.  The  Domesday 
lands  of  Mandeville370  passed  through  his  elder  brother  William 

366.  Kennett  :  Paroch.  Antiq.,  151  {with  transcript  of  charter). 

367.  Curia  Regis  Roll  48,  mem.  8d. 

368.  Testa  de  Nevill,  246a,  2C2a. 

369.  Testa  de  Nevill,  244b,  252b. 

370.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  259,  260. 


212 


NOTE   vui  C/18q  (DE  SAY) 


Testa  de  Nevill.  Domesday  Book. 

Vili..  Tenant.  Vill.  Tenant.  Sub-Tenant. 

Chetwode      Ralf  de  Chetwode     Ceteode  Bp.  Bayeux  Rob.  de  Tham 

Mgn.    Lek-  Hugh  de  Chastelyn  Lechamstede  Bp.  Bayeux  Gilb.  Maminot 
hamsted 

Gahurst        Aymer  de  Nowers     Gateherst       Bp.  Bayeux  Rob.  de  Nowers 

from  Bp.  Lisi^ux 

Crofton         Will,  de  Aguilun      Croustone       Bp.  Lisieux  Rob.  de  Nowers 
Ouinge         Rob.de  Chetwode      Olvenge         Bp.       Cou-  Two  knights 

tances 

de  Say  (d.  1 178)  to  his  descendants  the  Fitzpeter  Earls  of 
Essex371  forming-  the  "Bucks.  Honour  of  Ouerndon  or  Quarrcn- 
don.  Geoffrey's  Bucks,  holdings  appear  to  have  been  derived 
at  least  in  part  from  his  wife,  sister  and  ultimate  heiress  of 
Walchelin  Maminot,  whose  barony,  mostly  situate  in  Kent,  was 
held  by  castlegnard  of  Dover.372 

The  Domesday  Bishop  of  Lisieux  was  himself  a  Gilbert 
Maminot,  and  the  D.B.  editors  of  the  V.C.H.  for  Bucks,  sug- 
gest that  the  Domesday  subtenant  of  Leckhampstead  may  have 
been  a  nephew  of  the  Bishop.373  However  this  may  be,  Gilbert 
de  Magmmot  was  the  founder  of  the  Kentish  barony  under  the 
Conqueror,374  and  built  his  castle  at  Deptford.375 

His  successor  may  have  been  his  son  Hugh,  who  was 
followed  by  a  Walkelin,  whose  place  in  the  history  of  the 
period  is  not  our  concern.  He  is  described  by  Dugdale376  as 
a  nephew  of  William  Peverel  of  Dover,  and  in  1 145  he  gave 
half  of  West  Greenwich  (otherwise  Deptford)  to  the  Abbey  of 
Bermondsey.377  He  married  a  daughter  of  Rob.  de  Ferrariis 
Earl  of  Derby378  and  was  succeeded  by  another  Walkelin,  who 
in  1 1 57  gave  to  Bermondsey  a  rent  of  a  mill  in  Deptford,379 
and  also  made  grants  to  Beigham  Priory,  Sussex.380  These 
were  later  confirmed  by  his  widow  Juliana,  sister  of  Earl  Aubrey 
(de  Vere)  and  previously  widow  of  Hugh  Bigod,  Earl  of 
Norfolk.381 

In  1 1 68  Walkelin  II  had  given  to  the  monks  of  Bermond- 
sey sixty  shillings  rent  in  Cippeham  in  [  ?  or  and]  Dilleherst, 
and  the  church  of  Birlyng.382    The  latter  of  course  is  in  Kent, 

371.  Genealogist  (n.s.),  xxxiv,  181. 

372.  Hasted's  Kent,  iv,  62;  Lib.  Rub.,  617,  710,  721. 

373.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  p.  211. 

374.  Harris,  Hundr.  of  Blackheath,  p.  2. 

375.  Hasted,  vol.  i,  2,  3;  Harris,  p.  2. 

376.  Bar.,  i,  619. 

377.  Dugd.,  Mon.  Angl.,  v,  85. 

378.  Harris,  p.  2. 

379.  Mon.  Angl.,  v,  85. 

380.  Mon.  Angl.,  vi,  913. 

381.  P.R.S.  xxxv,  p.  7t. 
3S2.  Mon.  Angl.,  v,  S7. 


NOTES  :    vm  C/16q,   viii  C/i8r 


213 


but  Dileherst  Bucks,  was  one  gf  the  Domesday  Bishop  of 
l.isicux's  holdings  under  the  Bishop  of  Bayeux.383 

Walkelin  was  apparently  dead  in  3  Ric.  I,  when  the 
scutate  of  Wales  due  from  his  estate  was  paid  by  his  heir,584 
and  it  is  suggested  that  he  left  no  issue,  but  was  succeeded 
by  one  or  more  of  his  brothers,  who  ako  died  childless,  until 
at  last  his  barony  passed  to  the  husband  of  his  sister  Alice. 3 S5 
Geoffrey  de  Say,  son  of  the  Geoffrey  of  this  roll,  in  confirming 
grants  to  Beigham,  speaks  of  the  gift  which  his  father  Geoffrey 
de  Say  and  his  mother  Aliz  had  made :  and  in  the  elder 
Geoffrey's  own  grant  Walkelin  Maminot  is  described  as  his 
"  antecessor,"356  a  word  which  at  this  period  means  simply 
predecessor  in  title. 

By  the  end  of  Richard's  reign  Geoffrey  de  Say  had  suc- 
ceeded to  the  responsibilities  of  his  wife's  inheritance,  the  fol- 
lowing entry  appearing  in  the  Pipe  Roll  for  the  ninth  year 
under  Kent — "  Galfr'  de  Say  debet  loli.  10s.  de  scutagio  here- 
dum  Walkelini  Maminot  quorum  heres  est." 38 7  Whether  in 
fact  he  succeeded  to  the  estate  of  joint  heirs  or  to  the  debts 
of  successive  heirs  does  not  at  present  appear. 

Part  of  the  Say  fief  in  Bucks,  was  thus  certainly  derived 
through  the  Maminot  alliance,  but  this  does  not  account  for 
the  whole  of  it.  Sawbridgeworth  in  Herts,  came  to  him,  for  in 
the  2nd  year  of  John  he  owes  seven  marks  to  have  lands  which 
had  been  Earl  William's;385  and  in  121 2  he  is  returned  as 
holding  Sabnthteswurth  in  chief,  pertaining  to  the  honour  of 
Earl  William  de  Mandevill.389  The  fief  may  of  course  have 
grown  after  the  time  of  Geoffrey. 

viii  C/18r 

(40).  Easington  and  Singleborough  co.  Bucks,  were  of  the  fief 
of  Roheise  de  Auberville  in  1 185, 390  and  seem  always  to  be 
part  of  the  Honour  of  Giffard  of  Crendon.  At  a  later  date 
Eversholt,  Milton  Brian,  and  Hare  (now)  in  Toddington,  all 
co.  Beds.,  were  held  of  the  Honour  of  Auberville.391  Some  of 
these  may  eventually  clear  up  the  appearance  of  Ranulf  on  this 
list. 

383.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  p.  235b. 

384.  Pipe  Roll  37,  Kent. 

385.  Harris,  p.  2. 

386.  Mori.  Angl.,  vi,  913. 

387.  P.R.  43,  mem.  3. 

388.  P.R.  46,  mem.  3. 

389.  Testa  de  Nevill  (1807),  P-  269;  Bk.  Fees,  i,  123. 

390.  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  44. 

391.  Testa  de  Nevill,  243b. 


214 


NOTES  :    viii  C/18t   to  viii  C/18y 


viii  C/18t 

Peter  de  Preaux  (de  Pratellis,  Praels)  was  a  well-known  sup- 
porter of  King-  John,  but  the  reason  for  his  inclusion  in  this 
list  is  obscure. 

viii  C/18u 

(40).  Thomas  fitz  Bernard,  a  notable  officer  of  the  Household, 
twice  excommunicated  by  Thomas  Beket  in  his  struggle  with 
Henry  II,392  was  on  Eyre  of  the  Forest  in  Bucks,  and  other 
counties  in  1 178 ;  he  seems  to  have  died  in  1 184.  His  [  ?  second] 
son  by  Eugenia  Picot  was  Thomas  fitz  Bernard,  the  subject 
of  this  entry,  now  about  18  years  of  age;393  he  comes  into  cur 
Rolls  as  the  husband  of  Alice  de  Jarponville,  in  whose  right 
he  became  Marshal  of  the  Hawks  and  tenant  by  serjeanty  of 
Aston  [Bernard,  later  Aston  Mullins]  and  Ilmer  co.  Bucks. 
(N/ixA/13);  the  office  continued  with  his  descendants  till 
I3I5-394 

viii  C/18v 

(40).  William  de  Braose,  lord  of  Bramber,  inherited  enormous 
estates  in  Wales,  Devon,  and  Sussex.  From  1192  to  1199  he 
was  Sheriff  of  Herefordshire;  though  long  in  high  favour  with 
John,  he  rebelled  against  him  in  1208,  and  died  in  121 1  out- 
lawed and  in  exile.393  He  married  Maud  de  St.  Walery,  of 
whom  it  is  said  that  her  arrogance  contributed  to  his  fall, 
and  that  she  was  starved  to  death  by  John  in  Windsor  Castle. 
We  may  presume  that  she  had  brought  to  William  some  mar- 
riage portion  in  Bucks.,  where  (as  elsewhere)  the  family  de  St. 
Walery  had  succeeded  to  the  D.B.  Honour  of  Ivri,  but  we  have 
not  been  as  yet  fortunate  enough  to  trace  the  manor. 

viii  C/18x 

(40).  Robert  de  Ouency,396  eldest  son  of  Saher  de  Quency  first 
Earl  of  Winchester,  is  said  by  Eyton  to  have  died  on  the 
'Crusade  in  12 15  in  his  father's  lifetime;  he  was  ancestor  of 
the  de  Lacy  Eails  of  Lincoln.  Stevinton  co.  Beds,  and  Bletch- 
ley  co.  Bucks.397  were  of  the  Winchester  Honour,  and  he  may 
have  answered  for  one  or  both  of  these. 

viii  C/18y 

(40).  Walter  de  Trailly,  grandson  of  Albreda  sister  of  Walter 
Espec,  inherited  through  her  a  portion  of  the  D.B.  Honour 

392.  Foss  :  Judges  of  England. 

393.  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  87. 

394.  Round  :  King's  Serjeants,  309. 

395.  D.N.B.,  vi,  229. 

396.  B.H.R.S.,  v,  237. 

397.  Testa  de  NeviU,  244b. 


NOTES  :    viii  C/18z,   viii  D 


215 


of  Espec  in  Beds. ;  this,  with  certain  lands  held  from  the 
Bishop  of  Coutances  at  D.B.  by  his  grandfather  Geoffrey  de 
Trailly,  made  up  the  Fief  of  Trailly.393  The  former  lay  in 
Holcote  +  Biddenham,  Roxton,  Northill  +  Beeston,  and 
Southill  4-  Stanford;  the  latter  in  Chellington  +  Hinwick, 
Yielden,  and  Turvey  (all  in  Beds.)  and  in  Ludgershall  co. 
Bucks. 

viii  C/18z 

(40).  Oliver  de  Aiencurt,  then  head  of  the  Lincolnshire  house 
of  Deyncourt,  probably  appears  here  for  Woburn  co.  Bucks. 
As  Walter  de  Eincurt  held  Woburn  from  the  Bishop  of  Lin- 
coln towards  1 242, 399  and  '  Walter  '  held  it  from  the  same 
bishopric  in  1 086, 400  this  earlier  Walter  is  probably  identical 
with  Walter  de  Aincurt,  the  Lincolnshire  baron  at  Domesday 
and  founder  of  the  family. 

viii  D/19g 

(42).  The  Earl  of  Gloucester  is  Richard  de  Clare  Earl  of 
Hertford  (d.  1217);  and,  in  right  of  his  wife  Amice,  also  Earl 
of  Gloucester,  she  being  granddaughter  and  heiress  of  the 
Robert  Earl  of  Gloucester  who  occurs  in  connection  with  Luton 
Church  (N/viiM/5).  He  appears  here  as  holding  a  share  of 
the  Giffard  Honour  of  Crendon  in  Bucks. 

viii  D/19j 

(42).  Geoffrey  fltz  Peter  (d.  121 3),  whose  life  and  parentage 
are  well  known,401  occurs  largely  on  our  Rolls  as  a  Justice. 
He  was  appointed  Justiciar  in  1198,  created  Earl  of  Essex  in 
1199,  and  was  the  best  of  King  John's  generally  doubtful 
adherents.  As  a  young  man  he  had  held  a  part  fee  on  the 
Windsor  Honour  in  Bucks.,402  which  may  account  for  his  in- 
clusion in  this  list  of  scutages.  Some  of  his  relationships  are 
sho/wn  in  the  pedigree  of  N/ixA/2. 

viii  D/19  1 

(42).  Thomas  Basset  appears  to  have  held  5  fees  of  the  Honour 
of  Wallingford  in  1199,403  but  his  holding  in  Bucks,  has  escaped 
us.  He  was  a  younger  brother  of  Gilbert  Basset  of  Bicester, 
and  is  generally  known  as  Basset  of  Headington  co.  Oxon., 
a  royal  manor  granted  to  him  in  1203. 404    By  1220  he  was 

-  398.  Compare  Testa  de  Nevill,  248b. 

399.  Testa  de  Nevill,  246b. 

400.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  234a. 

401.  D.N.B.,  xix,  192;  Complete  Peerage  (ed.  V.  Gibbs),  v,  116/7,  122. 

402.  Lib.  Rub.,  316. 

403.  Lib.  Rub.,  146. 

404.  Rot.  Chart.  (R.C.),  109b. 


216 


NOTES  :   viii  E 


dead,  and  his  estate  divided  between  three  daughters  and 
heiresses.405 

viii  BIS 

(43).  Henry  de  Nonant,  representative  of  an  important  Devon 
family  which  held  about  30  fees  of  the  Honour  of  Totness, 
appears  here  as  the  first  husband  of  Isabel  de  Bolebec  (see 
pedigree  in  N/viiiB/3)  who  succeeded  to  a  share  of  the  Bolebec 
fief  on  the  death  of  her  niece  about  1185.  His  interest  in 
Bucks,  is  temporary,  as  he  seems  to  have  had  no  children  by 
her  and  to  have  died  towards  1207;  Isabel  then,  apparently 
somewhat  against  her  will,  remarried  Robert  de  Vere  third 
Earl  of  Oxford/06  to  whose  family  the  Bolebec  estates  passed. 

Elias  de  Beauchamp,  who  married  Constance  de  Bolebec 
sister  of  the  Isabel  above,  was  apparently  a  younger  son  of  Ralf 
de  Beauchamp  and  of  Matilda  daughter  of  Geoffrey  de 
Limesia;407  he  seems  to  have  belonged  to  the  West  Country 
family  and  had  (if  any)  only  the  most  distant  connection  with 
the  Bedfordshire  Beauchamps;  his  wife  and  her  sister  each 
received  five  fees  of  the  Bolebec  fief.408  In  John's  struggles 
with  his  Barons,  Elias  adhered  to  the  King,  and  was  with 
him  at  Newark  where  he  died  in  12 16.  By  1222  Elias  himself 
was  dead,  and  the  custody  of  his  heir  and  lands  given  to 
Fawkes  de  Breaute.409  He  had  no  children  by  Constance, 
and  her  five  fees  passed  to  her  sister's  heirs. 

viii  E/15m 

(42).  The  holding  for  which  John  de  Sanford  answered  is 
probably  Aston  Sandford,  held  of  the  Honour  of  Wolverton 
and  assessed  at  4|h.  in  D.B.410  We  have  failed  to  trace  its 
earlier  tenants;  it  appears  that  John  and  his  wife  Alice  had  to 
defend  a  plea  of  dower  in  1 199,411  but  that  the  manor  remained 
with  the  family  till  at  least  1 235/6. 412 

viii  E/15o 

(42).  The  succession  of  the  serjeanty  of  the  Dispenser  has  been 
worked  out  by  Dr.  Round,413  though  it  may  be  suggested  that 
the  earlier  generations  of  his  pedigree  are  too  numerous  for 
the  years  available.    The  family  were  hereditary  royal  dis- 

405.  Exc.  Rot.  Fin.,  i,  48;  Rot.  Lit.  Claus.,  i,  438. 

"  406.  Pipe  Roll  no.  53,  9  John,  Devon. 

407.  Bracton  :  Note  Book,  ii,  77;  Chart.  Rolls  (R.S.),  i,  38. 

408.  Lib.  Rub.,  138,  536. 

409.  R.  Lit.  Claus.  (R.C.),  i,  234,  272,  379,  535;  Exc.  Rot.  Fin.,  i,  9-1- 

410.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  270a. 

411.  Rot.  Cur.  Reg.,  i,  436,  449. 

412.  Bk.  Fees,  i,  462. 

413.  Round  :  King's  Serjeants,  186. 


NOTE  ixA/1  (BIDUN) 


217 


pensrrs  (we  might  say  1  keepers  of  the  store-rooms  ')  for  several 
generations.  Amaury  (modern  Emery)  occurs  in  this  list  for 
his  wife's  inheritance  in  the  two  shires  (N/xiiiA/2),  which  he 
already  held  by  1 186/7. 414 

ix  A 

(36).  The  Dialogus  does  not  seem  to  distinguish  between 
Oblata  and  Promissa,  neither  does  Madox  in  his  History  of 
the  Exchequer.  While  there  was  probably  a  legal  distinction, 
both  appear  to  be  '  voluntary  '  offerings  to  obtain  similar 
privileges. 

ix  A/1 

(36).  A. — The  Bidun  fief  of  5-^  fees  lay  partly  in  Northants., 
and  in  Bucks,  included  Lavendon,  Weston  Underwood,  Wing, 
and  Lathbury,  but  the  descent  of  the  lands  does  not  seem  to 
have  been  worked  out  in  detail  as  yet.415  Nor  has  the  family 
been  carried  back  beyond  Stephen's  reign,  even  by  Dr. 
Round.416  The  generations  which  are  affected  by  our  Rolls 
are  : 

Sara  =  1.  Halnacus  or  Hadenald  2.  =  2.  Agnes,  da.  and  coh.  1  =  (?  Warin)  de 
de  Bidun  of  Payn  fitz  John ;  Montchensy 

aged  '  60 '  in  1 185 
(N/viii  B/i4b) 

John  de  Bidun  =  Alice,  sis.  of  Will.  Mauduit  II' of  Hanslope  (N/viii  B/2), 
I     aged  '  50  '  in  1185 


—  John  de  Bidun  =  1.  Maud  da.  of  Thos.  fitz  Bernard   2.  =  John  de  Rochford 

ob.  s.  p.  juv.         (N/viii  C/i8u)  b.c.  1175. 

—  Amice    =  Henry  de  Clinton. 

—  Amabel  =  Miles  de  Beauchamp4*?  (N/viii  B/10.). 

—  Sara  =  Richard  de  Beauchamp.418 

—  Maud  ==  Geoffrey  fitz  Geoffrey.419 

—  Ermicerda  =  Ad'ulf  de  Gatesden42o  (N/ixG/42). 

The  five  daughters,  all  of  whom  left  issue,  became  their 
brother's  coheirs  before  1 185. 

B. — Geoffrey  de  Clinton  (Glinton),  the  founder  of  the  Clinton 
family,  has  not  been  traced  in  record  till  about  1120;  he  was 
one  of  the  capable  men  whom  Henry  I  raised  from  comparative 

414.  Lib.  Rub.,  67. 

41 1;.  Since  the  note  above  was  written,  Mr.  Farrer  has  published  a 
detailed  account  of  the  family  and  lands  (Hon.  Kt.  Fees,  i,  1-19). 

416.  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  pp.  xli-xliv,  etc. 

417.  B.H.R.S.,  ii,  73. 

418.  B.H.R.S.,  ii,  74. 

41Q.  Genealogist  (n.s.)  xxix ;  P.R.S.  xxxv,  p.  xliii  note  7;  B.H.R.S., 
11,83,84. 

420.  B.H.R.S.,  v,  223n. 


218  NOTE  ix  A/2 

obscurity  to  carry  out  bis  statecraft.  But  he  throve  rapidly; 
about  1 123/7  ne  founded  the  Priory  of  St.  Mary  Kenilworth, 
endowing  it  with  land  in  Hugihenderi  which  he  had  received 
from  the  King.421  From  the  P.R.  of  1130  we  learn  that  he 
had  received  lands  in  some  13  counties,  but  except  in  Warws., 
Berks.,  and  Bucks,  (where  he  held  perhaps  56  hides),  they  were 
inconsiderable  in  extent.  A  year  or  two  before  that,  he  seems 
to  have  visited  a  gre^.t  part  of  the  kingdom  as  Justice  in  Eyre; 
in  1 1 30  he  owed  to  the  Exchequer  310m.  for  '  the  office  of  the 
Treasury  of  Winchester,'  but  it  seems  from  his  use  of  the  style 
of  King's  Chamberlain  that  this  sum  is  probably  only  the 
balance  of  a  larger  amount;  he  had  held  some  similar  post  in 
the  Norman  Exchequer  previously.422  Accused  of  treason  in 
this  year,  he  was  apparently  acquitted ;  but  was  dead  within 
two  years.423  Gtoffrcy  de  Clinton,  his  son,  was  also  Chamber- 
lain; he  married  Agnes,  daughter  of  Roger  de  Novo  Burgo, 
Earl  of  Warwick.  In  the  carta  of  1166  he  is  found  to 
hold  17  fees  of  the  Ear)  of  Warwick,424  of  which,  says  Dug- 
dale,425  he  received  ten  with  his  wife;  the  church  of  Stewkley 
was  given  by  him  to  Kenilworth  Priory.  Henry426  his  son, 
who  is  recorded  in  this  entry  as  husband  of  Amice  de  Bidun, 
held  4  fees  in  Bucks,  and  Beds,  in  1203/4 ;427  at  his  death  his 
lands  were  divided  among  his  daughters  and  coheiresses.  The 
family  derived  its  name  from  Glympton  co.  Oxon. ;  an  exten- 
sive pedigree  is  furnished  by  Dugdale.428 

ix  A/2 

(36).  Weston  co.  Beds,  (later  Weston  Inge,  now  Westoning^ 
was  a  manor  of  Earl  Harold,  seized  by  William  at  the  Con- 
quest, and  added  to  the  royal  demesne  together  with  Hitchin 
of  which  it  formed  a  '  member  '  ;429  since  it  was  not  Ancient 
Demesne  of  King  Edward,  it  does  not  appear  among  the  Terre 
date,  but  as  a  Propresture  (35/v/iQ).  Roger  de  Sanford  had 
been  granted  lands  at  Barway  co.  Cambs.  as  early  as  1 155/6, 43 ' 
but  was  recently  dead  at  Michaelmas  1 190  (35/v/iC;). 

The  family  of  William  de  Boclande  took  name  from  Buck- 
land  near  Faringdon  co.  Berks.,  where  they  held  a  fee  of  the 

421.  Farrar  :  Itin.  Henry  I,  no.  541. 

422.  P.R.  1130  (R.C.),  105,  37. 

423.  Farrar  :  Itin.  Henry  I,  i43n. 

424.  Liber  Rubcus,  325. 

425.  Dugdale  :  Warwickshire,  163. 

426.  He  appears  as  Hugh  in  the  Ladies  Roll,  P.R.S.  xxxv,  45. 

427.  Liber  Rubeus,  136. 

428.  Dugdale:  Warwickshire,  715. 
4-9.  V.C.H.,  Herts.,  i,  302b. 

430.  P.R-,  2  Hen.  II  (R.C.),  15. 


NOTE   ixA/2  (DE  BOGLANDE) 


219 


,\lW-y  of  Abingdon.  The  first  Hugh  de  Boclande  attests 
^barters  of  William  Rufus,  apparently  throughout  his  reign.431 
From  1 1  io  to  about  1116  a  very  large  number  of  writs  are 
addressed  to  him,432  for  he  is  recorded  as  "  a  man  honest  and 
wise,  who  was  Sheriff  not  only  of  Berchescire  but  of  seven 
other  counties,  so  reputed  was  he  and  dear  to  the  King;433 
in  i  1 1 7  he  seems  to  be  dead.431  His  successor  William  de  Boc- 
lande was  Sheriff  of  Berks,  in  1 1 19, 435  and  in  1 130  was  the 
accountant  for  Windsor  and  other  royal  manors  in  Berks., 
holding  lands  also  in  Bucks,  or  Beds.436  By  1 157/8  Hugh 
de  Boclande  appears  to  have  succeeded  him;437  he  was  Sheriff 
of  Berks,  from  1170  to  1 176  and  flourished  till  1 185. 438  In 
!  166  he  appears  as  knight  of  Abingdon  Abbey,  but  also  as 
a  tenant  in  chief  of  la  fees.439  By  1100  William  de  Boclande, 
subject  of  the  present  entry,  had  taken  his  place.440  The 
following  sketch  pedigree  is  largely  due  to  Mr.  Watson's 
work.441 


Hugh  de  Boclande,  d.c.  1117. 
1 
1 
1 
1 

William  de  Boclande,  fl.  1119,  1130. 


Hugh  de  Boclande  =  2.     Matilda     1.  =  Peter  de  Ludgershall 
fl.  1157—1185. 


William  de  Say 


William  de  =  Haweise  William  de  =  Matilda  Beatrice  =  Geoffrey  fitz 
Lanvelay  (II)  Boclande,        de  Say     de  Say  Peter, 

d.c.  1216        d.c.  1222  dead  1197  Earl  of  Essex, 

d.  1213. 

William  will  c  stand  to  his  Right,'  that  is,  defend  at  law 
his  title  if  impeached. 


431.  Regesta  Regum  Anglo-Norm. 

432.  Farrar  :  Itin.  Henry  I  passim. 

433.  Hist.  Abingdon,  ii,  117. 

434.  Farrar  :  Itin.  Henry  I,  no.  376. 

435.  Farrar-:  Itin.  Henry  I,  no.  393. 
4^6.  P.R.  11 30  (R.C.),  100,  122,  126. 
437.  P.R.,  4  Henry  II  (R.C.),  124. 
43S.  Eyton  :  Itin.  Henry  II,  313,  337. 

439.  Liber  Rubens,  306,  307. 

440.  Liber  Ruben-,  73,  where  he  is  disguised  as  Rotlande. 

441.  Genealogist  (n.s.),  xxxiv,  1S1. 


220 


NOTES  :    ix  A/3  to  ix  A/5 


ix  A/3 

(36).  This  relates  to  a  step  in  an  action  for  settlement  of  lands 
in  Mursley  co.  Bucks,  between  Hamo  Passelewe  and  Ralf  de 
Grafton  who  had  married  the  daughters  of  Hodierna  de  Lucerna, 
on  the  one  part,  and  the  same  Hodierna  and  her  (?  second) 
husband  Hugh  de  Chaucumbe  on  the  other.442 

ix  A/4 

(36).  William  Marshal,  afterwards  Earl  Marshal  of  England, 
and  Regent  of  England  12 17-12 19,  the  noblest  figure  of  his 
time.443  He  was  younger  brother  of  John  Marshal  (N/V/21); 
through  his  wife  Isabel,  daughter  of  Richard  de  Clare  (Strong- 
bow)  Earl  of  Pembroke,  he  acquired  the  Earldom  of  Pembroke 
and  a  claim  on  the  great  Bucks.  Honour  of  Giffard,  which 
had  escheated  in  11 64  by  default  of  male  heirs;  he  obtained 
a  moiety  of  this  on  payment  of  2000  marks. 

ix  A/5 

(36).  This  entry  first  appears  in  11S4,444  but  from  its  phrasing 
on  our  Roll  (35/vi/S)  it  is  clear  that  the  land  is  in  the  King's 
hand  and  being  administered  for  him  by  the  Steward  of  the 
Honour  of  Giffard  (N/ixA/12).  At  its  next  appearance 
(36/ixA/5)  it  becomes  obvious  that  Eustace  de  Greinville  has 
been  disseised  by  the  King  or  escheated ;  he  promises  100  marks 
in  order  to  recover  his  lands  (formerly  of  his  uncle  Gerard), 
and  pays  off  the  last  of  this  sum  in  1192  (3S/ixA/5). 

The  name  Greinville  is  in  early  records  consistently  spelt 
Greinville  or  Grainville  with  few  exceptions,  and  it  is  reason- 
able to  suppose  that  the  '  lieu  de  provenance  '  was  one  of  two 
little  places  still  spelt  Grainville;  of  these,  the  most  probable 
is  about  15  miles  N.N.E.  of  Bolbec,  the  home  of  the  Giffards, 
the  overlords  of  this  family.  In  1088  Ralf  de  Grainvilla 
attested  a  charter  of  Robert  Duke  of  Normandy  to  the  Abbey 
of  Fecamp,445  and  in  11 28  Richard  and  Robert  de  Greinvilla 
attested  an  agreement  between  Fecamp  and  Robert  Earl  of 
Gloucester.446  In  the  reign  of  Henry  I,  Richard  de  Grainvilla 
with  his  wife  Constance  founded  the  Abbey  of  Neath  co. 
Glamorgan  for  the  salvation  of  Earl  Robert  of  Gloucester  (d. 
1 147)  his  wife  Mabel  and  his  son  William;447  Robert  de  Gram- 
villa  was  a  witness.    In  the  Pipe  Roll  for  1 130  the  name  occurs 

442.  Rot.  Cur.  Reg.  (R.C.),  i,  225,  430,  ii,  262;  Abbrev.  Placit.  (R.C.), 
25,  62. 

443.  D.N.B.,  xxxvi,  225. 

444.  P.R.S.,  xxxiii,  118. 

445.  Cal.  Doc.  France,  39. 

446.  Cal.  Doc.  France,  1521. 

447.  Mon.  Ang].,  v,  25S. 


NOTE  ix  A/5  (I)E  GRSfNVlLLB) 


221 


thrice;  Gerard  fie  Gteinvilla  is  pardoned  345.  on  Danegeld  in 
Bucks.  ;443  Richard  occurs  in  Dorset,  and  one  with  an  illegible 
font-name  in  Devon.119  The  family  was  at  home  in  Dorset 
Devon,  and  .Bucks,  for  many  years  after  njo,  and  it  is  tempt- 
ing to  suggest  that  the  Domesday  '  Ralf  '  who  held  Oltone 
(Wootton  Underwood)  from  Walter  Giffard  in  1086450  was  the 
Ralf  de  Grainvilla  of  the  Fecamp  charter  of  1088.  Nor  is  it 
by  any  means  impossible  that  Richard,  the  witness  in  1128, 
is  the  founder  of  the  Devon  family  of  Eideforcl,  and  identical 
with  the  Richard  who  occurs  in  Dorset  two  years  later;  the 
founder  of  Neath  Abbey  certainly  held  in  Devon.451  These 
suggestions,  however,  are  only  useful  in  so  far  as  they  may 
serve  as  a  hint  for  further  investigations. 

Gerard,  already  mentioned  as  occurring  in  the  Pipe  Roll 
of  1 130  for  Bucks.,  in  1 1 5 8  is  pardoned  5s.  under  Bucks,  and 
Beds,  and  20s.  under  Northants.  ;452  in  11 59  he  occurs  under 
Wilts.153  His  name  recurs  in  three  succeeding  Pipe  Rolls,454 
in  the  last  of  which  he  is  again  pardoned  34s.  on  the  Danegeld 
of  Bucks.,  as  in  11 30.  He  attested  a  charter,  dated  by  its 
editor  as  1 152-1 158, 455  made  by  Walter  Giffard  in  favour  of 
Longueville  Priory;  and  though  he  appears  in  the  Carta  of 
Walter  Giffard  (d.  1 1 64)  as  having  held  from  the  latter  three 
knights'  fees  in  Bucks.,456  he  evidently  died  before  his  over- 
lord, because  in  a  document  to  which  Dr.  Round  tentatively 
assigns  the  date  11 59  it  is  declared  that  Walter  Earl  Giffard 
has  made  recognition  before  the  King  and  his  own  barons, 
among  whom  is  Eustace  de  Grainvilla,  the  nephew  and  suc- 
cessor of  Gerard.457  There  is  no  evidence  to  show  at  what 
date  Eustace  succeeded,  nor  at  what  date  his  land  was  es- 
cheated. His  parentage  will  perhaps  be  yielded  by  a  study 
of  the  history  of  his  manor  of  Stamburn  co.  Essex.  With 
regard  to  the  precise  extent  of  the  Greinville  holding  in  Bucks., 
we  may  recognise  the  three  fees  held  by  Gerard  in  the  Giffard 
Carta  through  the  confirmation  by  Eustace  of  the  gift  by 
"the  earl  of  Buckingham  Walter  Giffard  "  to  the  monks  of 
Longueville  of  the  tithes  "  of  my  demesnes  of  Wootton  and 


448.  Pipe  Roll  1 1 30  (Rec.  Com.),  102. 

449.  Pipe  Roll  1130  (Rec.  Com.),  15,  155. 

450.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  249a. 

451.  Dugdale  :  Mon.  Angl.,  v,  258. 

452.  Pipe  Rolls  1155-1158  (Rec.  Com.)  140,  142. 
453-  P.R.S.,  i,  38. 

454.  P.R.S.,  ii,  38;  iv,  11;  v,  42. 

455.  New'iDizton  Longueville  Charters  in  Oxf.  Rec.  Soc.,  iii,  2. 
4^6.  Lib.  Rub.,  312. 

457.  Cal.  Doc.  France,  115;  compare  no.  236  on  p.  82  of  that  work. 


222 


NOTE  ixA/6 


Chilton. "458  Wootton  Underwood  (in  D.B.  Oltone  or  Ottone) 
was  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  assessed  at  10  hides,439  and  in 
later  times  was  reckoned  at  2  knights'  fees.  In  1242  the  2  fees 
in  Wootton  are  returned  as  held  (apparently  jointly)  by  Eus- 
tace de  Greinville  and  Robert  de  la  Rokele,460  while  the  Hun- 
dred Rolls  for  39  Hen.  Ill  state  that  Eustace  holds  a  moiety 
of  Wootton,  being  one  knights'  fee.461  — Chilton  appears  in 
D.B.  as  demesne  of  Walter  Giffard  and  assessed  at  10  hides.402 
Towards  1242  Robert  Greynvil  is  returned  as  holding  here 
one  fee  of  the  Honour  of  the  Marshal463  (the  Marshal  moiety  of 
the  Honour  of  Giffard). — Thus  Gerard's  three  fees  may  be 
taken  to  have  lain,  two  in  Wootton  and  one  in  Chilton;  the 
direct  descent  apparently  failed,  and  the  holding  was  split  up 
by  the  date  of  the  1242  scutage. 

ix  A/6 

(36).  It  is  still  often  stated  that  Bedford  Castle  was  the  here- 
ditary stronghold  of  the  Beauchamps  of  Bedford,  but  it  is 
clear  that,  though  the  family  upheld  that  claim,  it  was  not 
accepted  by  the  King.  In  the  first  place  the  '  burh  '  which 
preceded  it  was  captured  from  the  Danes  by  Edward  about 
920, 464  and  thus  became  a  royal  fortress.  There  is  no  evidence 
that  Hugh  de  Beauchamp  of  Domesday  was  ever  in  possession, 
nor  even  that  there  was  a  '  castle  '  to  possess.  On  the  other 
hand  it  is  clear  that,  soon  after  the  death  of  Simon  de  Beau- 
champ  (I),  Miles  was  "  in  charge  of  the  castle  of  Bedford  as 
constable  by  the  King's  permission  "  in  1 137/8,  when  the  sons 
of  Robert  de  Beauchamp  held  it  against  Stephen  "  because 
they  feared  to  lose  all  their  inheritance."  Captured  then  by 
Stephen,  it  was  given  to  Hugh  (le  Poer)  of  Mellent  but  "  re- 
covered "  by  Miles  in  or  before  1 141 .  Payne,  brother  of 
Miles,  succeeded  to  the  Barony ;  if  he  also  acquired  the  castle 
(as  is  probable),  he  certainly  lost  it  again  in  1146  when  it  was 
retaken  for  the  King  by  Ralf  Earl  of  Chester.465  At  Payne's 
death  his  son  Simon  was  still  a  minor,  but  succeeded  to  his 
lands  about  1 164/5  i  Vet  m  our  Roll  of  26  years  later  he  offers 
100  li.  for  the  castle;  meanwhile,  as  earlier  records  show,  it 
was  in  the  royal  hands.     The  Crown's  claim  is  quite  clear, 


4158.  Newington  Longueville  Charters  in  Oxf.  Rec.  Soc,  iii,  4S. 

459.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  249a. 

460.  Testa  de  Nevill,  247. 

461.  Rot.  Hundred  (R.C.).  i,  23. 

462.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i.  248a. 

463.  Testa  (R.C.),  247.' 

464.  Anglo-?axon  Chron.,  (R.S.),  i,  102. 

465.  fiesta  Stephani  (R.S.  82,  iii),  30-32,  73,  117. 


NOTES  :    ix  A/7  to  ix  A/11 


223 


U,r  when  Simon  expends  money  in  fortifying  "  the  King's 
castle  of  Bedford"  (37/1XA/17)  it  is  refunded  to  him  as  an 
Allowance  by  writ.  Miss  Norgate406  has  come  to  the  same 
conclusion  as  the  foregoing  facts  indicate— that  Bedford  was 
a  royal  castle,  held  hereditarily  by  the  Beauchamps  so  long 
as  they  were  of  good  behaviour,  but  liable  at  any  time  to  be 
resumed  by  the  King;  it  never  ceased  in  Beauchamp  time  to 
be  a  royal  castle. 

ix  A/7 

(56).  Ralf  Gibewin,  jointly  with  another,  held  a  fee  of  2  knights 
from  Walter  de  Bolebec  in  1 166. 407  In  11S5  he  was  employed 
with  Gilbert  Basset  in  valuing  and  administering  the  Gresley 
estate,  then  in  the  King's  hand.468  As  he  was  fined  for  dis- 
seisin of  Leveva  Passelewe,469  this  Weuedon  probably  represents 
the  Bolebec  land  in  Wavendon,  not  Weedon  by  Aylesbury. 
Later  in  the  Rolls,  he  claims  a  fee  in  Liscombe  and  Soulbury 
(37/1XB/5).  According  to  Lipscomb,  the  family  held  in  Great 
Linford. 

ix  A/8 

(36).  The  pleadings  in  this  suit  have  been  published.470 

ix  A/9 

(36).  Ralf  son  of  Bernard  and  Henry  Lenveise  were  tenants 
of  the  Abbey  of  Ramsey.471  The  matter  first  appears  in 
I176472  and  is  apparently  carried  on  by  their  heirs.  Compare 
36/ixA/i4. 

ix  A/10 

(36).  Gilbert  de  Meppershall  held  in  Meppershall  and  Felmer- 
sham  co.  Beds,  and  in  Felstead  co.  Essex,  by  a  serjeanty  of 
the  Larder;  the  family  and  serjeanty  have  been  already  dis- 
cussed.473 

ix  A/11 

(36).  Hugh  de  Haveresham  held  a  fee  at  Haversham  co.  Bucks, 
from  the  Honour  of  Peverel  of  Nottingham  between  1 196/7  and 
121 1 /12. 474  It  is  not  apparent  what  demesne  rights  the  King 
could  claim  in  this  vill. 

466.  Minority  of  Henry  III,  pp.  293-296. 

467.  Liber  Rubeus,  317. 

468.  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  4,  8. 

469.  P.R.S.,  xxviii,  79. 

470.  B.H.R.S.,  i,  198-201,  cases  132-134. 

471.  Ramsey  Cart.  (K.S.  79),  iii,  305. 

472.  P.R.S.,  xxii,  143. 

473-  B.H.R.S.,  iii,  251-255:  v,  229,  230. 
474.  Liber  Rubeus,  109,  137,  536,  585. 


224 


NOTES  :   ix  A/12,  ix  A/13 


ix  A/12 

(36).  Alan  de  Dunstanville  was  a  cadet  of  a  well-known  house 
which  held  in  Shrops.  and  Wilts.,  and  younger  brother  of 
Walter  de  Dunstanville.475  He  married  Muriel,  daughter  of 
Geoffrey  fitz  William  (d.c.  1 179)  and  of  Emma  de  Langetot,476 
and  in  1 180  succeeded  to  his  father  in  law's  stewardship  of 
the  Bucks.  Honour  of  Earl  Giffard,  the  Honour  of  Crendon 
which  is  now  being  parted  between  Richard  de  Clare  Earl  of 
Gloucester  and  Hertford,  and  William  the  Marshal. 

ix  A/13 

(36).  The  office  of  Marshal  of  the  Hawks  was  supported  by 
manors  in  Kent  and  by  Aston  [Bernard,  later  Aston  Mullins] 
and  Ilmer  co.  Bucks.  The  descent  of  this  serjeanty  has  been 
traced  in  detail  by  Dr.  Round'177  from  Robert  de  Romenel 
(Romney  co.  Kent)  who  held  these  manors  from  the  Bishop 
of  Bayeux  in  1086,  to  Albreda  de  Romenel;  by  his  marriage 
with  this  heiress,  William  de  Jarponville  (Gerpunville)  acquired 
the  Marshalsea  of  the  Hawks,  and  was  active  in  his  office 
between  1 179  and  1 1S6.  He  was  probably  the  son  of  Reginald 
de  Jarponville  who  attested  early  in  the  reign  of  Henry  II,478 
and  himself  the  William  who  with  his  mother  Emmeline 
assented  to  his  father  Reginald's  grant  to  Bocherville  Abbey.479 


Robert  de  Romenel,  undertenant  in 
1 
1 
1 
1 

Lambert  de  Romenel,  occu 
1 


ro86. 


3°- 


David  de  Romenel,    Emmeline  =  Reginald  de 
alive  1 158/9  Jarponville 


Albreda  de 
Romenel 


William  de 
Jarponville 


Eugenia  =  Thos.  fitz 
Picot  Bernard. 


Alice  de  Jarponville  =  Thos.  fitz  Bernard 


475.  Fyton  :  Shropshire,  ii,  268-304. 

476.  Missenden  Cartulary,  f.  i33d-i39;  P.R.S.,  xxxv,  41. 

477.  Round  :  King's  Serjeants,  303-310. 

478.  Cal.  Doc.  France,  i,  7,  6q. 

479.  Stapleton  :  Rot.  Scacc.  Norm.,  ii,  p.  lxxviii  note. 


NOTES  :   ix  A/15  to  ix  A/18 


225 


By  1 198  he  was  dead,  and  his  widow  Albreda  made  fine  for 
the  serjeanty  (44/ixH/i5),  but  she  survived  till  1225/6,  when 
her  daughter  and  heiress  Alice,  who  had  carried  the  office  to 
Thomas  fttz  Bernard  (N/viiiC/  1811),  had  seisin  of  her  lands.480 
For  Herbert  de  Bolebec  see  N/viiiB/5. 

ix  A/15 

(36).  The  farm  of  this  escheat  is  now  bought  by  Will,  de  Ste. 
Mere  Eglise  (N/xiiiB)  who  subsequently  pays  through  the 
Sheriff  (36/ v/ 1 2). 

ix  A/16 

(36). — A  medieval  forest  was  "  a  definite  tract  of  land  within 
which  a  particular  body  of  law  was  enforced,  having  for  its 
object  the  preservation  of  certain  animals  "4Si  of  a  wild  nature. 
There  can  be  little  doubt  that  the  forest  law  of  the  Conqueror 
controlled  that  part  of  the  royal  demesne,  "  wooded  and  so 
beset  with  robbers  that  it  was  scarce  possible  for  the  lieges  to 
traverse  it  without  being  slain  by  them,  or  losing  limb  or 
chattels,"482  in  which  Henry  I  founded  Dunstable  as  a  hospice 
for  travellers  by  the  Icknield  Way  and  Watling  Street.  Any 
tract  of  land,  not  necessarily  thickly  wooded,  might  be  declared 
royal  forest  at  the  King's  pleasure  without  affecting  its  owner- 
ship, and  would  thus  be  brought  under  the  special  law;  but 
at  no  date  in  Beds,  can  be  traced  such  compact  forest  areas 
as  were  to  be  found  in  Northants.  Hunts,  and  Bucks.  Nor 
can  we  now  identify  the  lands  which  were  afforested  by  Henry  I, 
to  redeem  which  the  Barons  paid  this  large  sum,  though  it  is 
permissible  to  infer  from  Barth.  de  Lega's  amercement  that 
Thurleigh  may  have  been  among  them  (36/viiH/  1).  The  Forest 
Pleas  of  1 190  show  a  few  amercements  on  Beds.  (36/viiH), 
but  in  those  of  1 198  every  recognisable  name  of  man  and  place 
belongs  to  Bucks.  (44/'viiP/i-2i),  and  we  may  conclude  that 
the  payment  of  the  Barons  cleared  the  county  of  Beds,  as  a 
whole.  At  the  same  time  it  is  not  certain  that  Ancient  Demesne 
was  subject  to  the  Forest  Eyre,  so  that  it  is  possible  that  the 
three  royal  manors  in  the  south  of  the  county  remained  amenable 
to  forest  law  administered  by  the  Sheriff. 

ix  A/18 

(36).  This  entry  is  entirely  out  of  place,  and  should  have  been 
under  Proprestures  and  Escheats,  as  it  was  entered  next  year 
(37/V/21).  The  land  concerned  is  probably  that  \\  hides 
which  Earl  Harold  held  and  William  annexed  to  royal 
demesnes.483 

480.  Exc.  Rot.  Fin.,  i,  152. 

481.  Turner  :  Select  Pleas  of  the  Forest  (Selden  Soc.  riii),  ix. 

482.  Mon.  Ang.,  vi,  240. 
4S3.  V.C.H.,  Bucks.,  i,  232. 


226 


NOTES  :    ix  A/19,  &  A/20 


ix  A/19 

(36).  "  Bertram  de  Verdun's  account  will  have  been  made  up 
before  August  1190  when  he  embarked  from  Marseilles  in  com- 
pany with  King  Richard.  .  .  .  The  Baron  had  had  it  in  hand 
to  dispose  of  the  stores  and  fittings  of  two  ships  unneeded  by 
King  Richard  [for  the  Crusade].  He  took  100  merks  to 
Richard  himself,  while  yet  the  King  was  in  Normandy." lsl 
Eyton  reads  Su'p'ton  for  the  name  of  the  castle  and  regards  it 
as  perhaps  South  Periton  in  Somerset,  but  it  appears  clearly 
to  be  Scipton  and  may  be  presumed  to  be  Skipton  Castle  co. 
Yorks. 

Bertram  de  Verdon,  whose  property  lay  mainly  in  Staffs., 
probably  appears  here  as  holding  Farnham  [Royal]  co.  Bucks., 
which  his  ancestor  Bertram  held  in  1.086;*? 3  and  his  successors 
held  by  a  '  glove  and  sceptre  '  serjeanty  at  the  Coronation 
which  is  still  exercised  in  modern  times. 4S6  He  was  son  of 
Norman  de  Verdon,  and  of  Lesceline  daughter  of  Geoffrey 
de  Clinton  the  Chamberlain  (N/ixA/i).  He  sat  regularly  in 
the  Curia  Regis  and  was  frequently  on  Eyre;  soldier  as  well 
as  judge,  he  accompanied  Richard  and  died  on  the  Crusade 
at  Joppa  in  1 192. 487 

ix  A/20 

(36).  Gilbert  Pipard,  who  held  six  fees  of  the  Honour  of 
Wallingford,  was  probably  son  of  William  and  father  of  Walter 
Pipard,  both  of  whom  enjoyed  the  same  holding. 48S  The  con- 
nection of  the  family  with  this  Honour  dates  at  least  from 
1 106/7,  when  an  earlier  Gilbert  Pipard  was  steward  of  Miles 
Crispin,  and  afterwards  attested  a  consent  of  Brian  fitz  Count 
and  his  wife  Matilda  de  Oilli.489  In  Bucks,  however  Gilbert 
has  only  been  traced  as  lord  of  Addingrove  by  Oakley,  a  fee 
of  the  Giffards'  Earls  of  Buckingham.490  He  succeeded  [his 
father]  William  Pipard  as  Sheriff  of  Gloucestershire  (1168- 
1 1 7 1 ),  was  Sheriff  of  Herefordshire  (1172-1173),  and  was  on 
Eyre  at  various  dates  between  1174  and  1 185.  In  1179/S0 
he  was  a  Baron  of  the  Norman  Exchequer  and  employed  on 
administration  in  the  Duchy.491  He  died  on  Crusade  in 
1 192. 492 

484.  Eyton  :  Salt.  Coll.  Staffs.,  ii,  9. 

485.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  26Sa. 

486.  Round  :  King's  Serjeants,  373. 

487.  Bened.  Peterb.  (R.S.  49)  ii,  140,  150. 

4S8.  Liber  Rubeus,  69,  309,  145;  Rot.  Obi.  Fin.,  163. 

489.  Chron.  Abingdon  (R.S.  2),  ii,  97,  109. 

490.  P.R.S.,  xiv,  36;  xxxv,  42  note. 

491.  Cal.  Doc.  France,  402;  Stapleton :  Rot.  Scacc.  Norm.,  i,  saepe. 

492.  Bened.  Peterbor.,  (R.S.  49),  ii,  150. 


NOTES  5    xv  A/21   to   ix  H/4 


227 


ix  AIM 

(36)  .  A  neat  little  illustration  of  the  way  in  which  the  Ex- 
chequer gradually  developed  a  Judicial  side. — Part  of  Boveney 
belonged  to  the  Honour  of  Windsor  in  n66#493  but  does  not 
appear  overtly  in  D.B.  as  land  of  Walter  son  of  Other 
(N/viiiB/l),  being;  probably  included  in  his  12  hides  at  Eton. 

is  B/l 

(37)  .  The  heavy  £me  shews  that  Roger  was  not  a  servant  but 
a  serjeant.  He  is  therefore  probably  the  predecessor  of  Ralf 
son  of  Ralf  de  Querendon  who  held  3I1.  I  v.  by  serjeanty  under 
the  Honour  of  Peverel  towards  1242. 424  This  enables  us  to 
connect  the  holding  with  the  3h.  iv.  held  at  Domesday  by 
'Ralf'  from  William  Peverel  in  Claindone;  the  latter  has 
been  placed  in  East  Claydon,495  but  the  duties  of  the  serjeanty 
have  not  yet  been  found. 

ix  B/2 

(37).  Richard  de  Pertenhall  held  a  fraction  of  a  fee  from  Will, 
de  Say  of  the  Honour  of  Kimbolton  in  1166496  on  the  old 
feoffment.  Richard  son  of  Geoffrey  de  Pertenhall  made  a  small 
grant  to  Bushmead  Priory  in  Little  Staughton,497  but  the  family 
was  unimportant  and  therefore  difficult  to  trace. 

ix  B/3 

(37).  The  Weldebof  family  held  a  fee  in  Colmworth  from  the 
Beauchamp  Barony  of  Bedford,498  and  made  small  gifts  to 
Bushmead  Priory.  Their  rame  appears  in  many  variants,  and 
is  sometimes  written  as  if  a  nickname — Oyl  de  Boef  (Oeil  de 
Boeuf^  Bull's  eye).  But  it  is  almost  always  written  with  a 
de,'  and  seems  to  be  taken  from  Wellebeof,  which  has  been 
identified  with  the  modern  Quillebeuf 199  near  the  mouth  of 
the  Seine. 

ix  B/4 

(37).  Matilda  Giffard  held  a  half  fee  in  co.  Northants.  in  the 
reigns  of  Richard  I  and  John,500  and  may  have  been  that 
widow  of  Reginald  Giffard  who  held  111  '  Draiton '  co. 
Cambs.501  in  1209/10.  But  neither  the  Chronicle  nor  the  Car- 
tulary of  Dunstable  Priory  throw  any  light  on  this  suit. 

493.  Lib.  Rub.,  315. 

494.  Testa  de  Nevill,  245a. 

495.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  253b. 

496.  Lib.  Rub.,  373. 

497.  Bushmead  Cartul.,  f.  3$d,  36. 

498.  Liber  Rubeus,  320;  P.R.S.,  xi,  til. 

499.  Farrer  :  Itin.  Henry  I,  135. 

500.  Liber  Rubeus,  82,  129,  171. 

501.  Hunter  :  Fines,  i,  330. 


228 


NOTES  :    ix  C/l   to  ix  C/4 


ix  C/l 

(39).  Change  of  venue  from  a  franchise  Court  (probably  of 
Gournai  in  Houghton  Regis  or  of  the  Prior  of  Dunstable)  to 
the  Curia  Regis  in  Eyre.  Everard  de  Sevvell  occurs  in  the 
Dunstable  Cartulary. 

ix  C/2 

(39).  The  charter  by  which  Roger  de  Salford,  Hugh's  father, 
when  preparing  for  Crusade  (37/viiiA  '2d)  assigned  Stotfold 
to  Walter  Rufus  (Russellus),  has  been  printed.502  Hugh  varies 
his  plea  in  42/ixF/3,  so  that  we  may  presume  Walter  Ruffu^ 
to  have  died  and  to  have  been  succeeded  by  Simon.  The  suit 
still  drags  on  in  12C0/'03 

ix  C/4 

(39).  The  '  Eston  '  of  this  little  larderer  serjeanty  in  Aston 
Clinton  seems  to  have  misled  Dr.  Round,  who  includes  it  with 
the  more  important  serjeanty  of  Great  Easton  co.  Essex.5"1 
It  seems  to  be  one  of  the  little  local  serjeanties,  responsible 
for  salting  and  storing  meat  for  the  royal  larder,  perhaps  for 
supplying  the  royal  table  on  the  King's  visits  to  the  county. 
It  has  not  been  found  possible  to  identify  the  land  in  D.B.. 
for  the  only  place  identified  by  V.C.H.  with  Aston  Clinton''"5 
persists  as  a  separate  holding  of  the  descendants  of  the  Earls 
of  Salisbury  alongside  of  the  serjeanty  ;506  the  land  was  perhaps 
cut  out  of  the  adjacent  royal  manor  of  Wendover. 

With  the  help  of  Dugdale507  it  is  possible  to  trace  some- 
thing of  the  family.  William  de  Clinton,  brother  of  Geoffrey 
de  Clinton  the  Chamberlain  (N/ixA/i),  occurs  in  the  P.R. 
of  1 130,  and  was  a  benefactor  of  the  church  of  Cassington  co. 
Oxon.508  about  11 52.  Jordan  his  son,  who  endowed  a  Hermit 
at  Aston  Clinton  (42/xiiiH/ 17),  appears  in  1165  as  pardoned 
payment  in  Bucks,  for  two  men-at-arms  on  the  scutage  of  that 
year509  and  occurs  on  the  Rolls  in  1176  and  1178.  By  1 1 87 
he  was  dead,  and  the  Sheriff  accounts  for  the  land  of  Horton 
which  had  been  his;510  this  appears  from  a  suit  of  1218/19 

502.  B.H.R.S.,  vi,  196,  197.  The  present  entry  is  there  wrongly  inter- 
preted as  a  Relief  paid  on  succession,  an  error  for  which  one  of  the  present 
Editors  here  does  penance. 

503.  Cur.  Reg.  Rolls  (R.S.),  i,  151. 

504.  Round  :  King's  Serjeants,  235. 

505.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  263b. 

506.  Feudal  Aids,  i,  85. 

507.  Dugdale  :  Warwickshire,  ed.,  1,  715. 

508.  Cartul.  Eynsham  (Oxfd.  Hist.  Soc),  i,  91,  92. 
"509.  P.R.S.,  viii,  23. 

510.  P.R.S.,  x.txvii,  49. 


NOTES  :   Ik  C/5  to  Ix  C/7 


229 


to  be  Over  Worton  co.  Oxon.,511  for  which  his  son,  the  William 
de  Clinton  of  our  Rolls,  pleaded  unsuccessfully.512  It  is  sug- 
gestive that  the  defendant  replied  that  "  in  so  far  as  William 
claims  that  land,  he  holds  it  from  John  de  Meppershall  " ; 
since  the  Meppershalls  held  a  long-standing  laiderer  serjeanty, 
it  looks  as  if  he  were  William's  superior  officer,  and  as  if 
Over  Worton  (then  a  falconer  serjeanty,  but  only  claimed  as 
such  for  two  reigns)  had  previously  been  a  larderer  serjeanty. 
This  William  seems  to  have  held  his  grandfather's  fee  of 
Cassington  from  the  Arsic  barony,513  and  in  our  present  entry 
claims  his  inheritance,  and  receives  an  official  horse ;  but  his 
land  is  an  escheat  in  our  liter  Rolls.  By  1200  he  was  dead, 
and  his  widow  Isabel  offered  300m.  for  the  wardship  and 
marriage  of  the  son  and  heir;514  next  year  the  land  is  still  at 
farm,515  but  Isabella  held  by  serjeanty  at  least  as  late  as 
1 21 2/ 1 3, 5 10  and  appears  to  have  been  succeeded  by  her  son 
William. 

ix  C/5 

(39).  Sir  Walter  de  Stiuecle  (Stukeley,  co.  Hunts.),  son  of 
Sir  Joscelin  de  Stiuecle  and  Alina  Wake  of  Wardon,517  was 
Seneschal  of  Ramsey  Abbey.  The  land  at  issue  was  probably 
in  or  near  Gravenhurst  or  Shillington,  as  the  families  de 
Stiuecle  and  de  Glanville  both  held  in  that  neighbourhood. 

ix  C/6 

(39)  .  This  amercement  at  the  Eyre  of  the  current  year  was 
apparently  not  ready  for  account  when  reached  in  due  course 
(39/viiM/ 17),  and  is  thus  posted  here  out  of  its  place  among 
Offerings. 

ix  C/7 

(40)  By  its  position  on  the  Roll,  this  may  have  been  a  plea 
before  the  Archbishop  after  those  in  R.  39  had  been  remitted 
to  the  Sheriff. — The  collocation  of  names  suggests  Caldecote 
in  Eynesbury,  and  the  adjacent  Toseland,  both  in  co.  Hunts., 
in  which  county  William  Lancelin  held  a  fee  in  1201;518 
Herdewich  is  probably  the  Bucks.  Hardwick. 


511.  Compare  Mowat :  Notes  on  Oxfordshire  Domesday,  13,  note  5. 

512.  Curia  Regis  Roll  96,  mem.  o,d. 

513.  Rot.  Cur.  Reg.,  (R.C.),  i,  25. 

514.  Rot.  Obi.  Fin.,  61,  173. 

515.  Chanc.  R.,  3  John  (R.C.),  346. 

516.  Lib.  Rub.,  137,  464. 
«;i7.  B.H.R.S..  v,  207-209. 
518.  R.  Obi.  Fin.,  156. 


230  NOTES  :    ix  D/l  to  ix  D/6 

ix  D/l 

(40).  Simon  Basset  was  apparently  a  descendant  of  William 
Basset,  an  undertenant  of  Hugh  de  Beauchamp  at  Milton 
Ernest  in  1086;  and  he  (or  his  father)  appears  m  the  Beauchamp 
carta  of  n66r>19  for  a  fraction  of  a  fee.  His  importance  was 
enhanced  by  marriage  with  Elizabeth  daughter  and  coheir  of 
William  Avenel  of  Haddon  co.  Derby,  who  made  in  his  life- 
time a  disposition  of  his  estate  between  his  two  sons-in-law,6-" 
the  Simon  Basset  and  Richard  de  Vernon  of  our  entry.  After 
his  death  they  seem  to  have  made  a  different  division  of  his 
lands  to  which  our  present  entry  is  leading,  partitioning  Had- 
don and  Baslow  co.  Derby,  Adstock  co.  Bucks,  (both  of  the 
Honour  of  Peverel  of  Nottingham),  and  Irthlingborough  co. 
Northants.  (held  from  the  Abbey  of  Peterborough).  Simon 
was  a  benefactor  of  Wardon  Abbey  in  Milton  Ernest,  and  of 
Pipewell  Abbey;  he  acted  as  Justice  Itinerant  for  the  assess- 
ment of  Tallage  in  1 197/8,  and  died  between  1201/2  and 
1208/9,  leaving  three  sons  and  a  daughter. 

ix  D/2 

(40).  This  appears  to  refer  to  Scalford  co.  Leics.,  where  Simon 
granted  land  to  his  son  in  law.521 

ix  D/3 

(40).  This  mysterious  Bolesberia  is  probably  meant  for  Edles- 
borough,  where  32s.  of  land  wTere  held  by  Nicholas  Sprignel 
towards  1242.  Part  of  Edlesborough  came  into  the  fee  of 
Moretaine,  and  could  therefore  be  in  the  hands  of  a  serjeant 
of  Count  John.522 

ix  D/6 

(40).  Thomas  de  Verdon  (d.  1200)  was  son  and  heir  of  Ber- 
tram de  Verdon,  who  was  recently  dead  on  Crusade 
(N/ixA/19),  a  Staffordshire  Baron  who  had  held  two  fees  from 
Hamo  son  of  Meinfelin  in  ii6652C  apparently  in  Bucks.,  as  well 
as  his  serjeanty  at  Farnham  Royal.  Eyton  pointed  out  that 
the  fine  demanded  for  his  relief  in  this  entry  was  '  outrageously 
extortionate,'  but  the  King  wanted  all  the  money  which  he 
could  raise  for.  his  French  war.  The  castles  in  question  were 
probably  those  of  Alton  co.  Staffs,  and  Brandon  co.  Warws.524 
Thomas  married  Eustachia  daughter  of  Gilbert  Basset  (see 
N/viiiC/i8h),  and  died  in  or  before  1 199. 

519.  Liber  Rubeus,  320. 

520.  Hist.  M.S.  Comm.,  Rutland,  iv,  22. 

521.  Stenton  :  Danelaw  Charters,  339. 

522.  Testa  de  Xevill,  246a,  245b. 

523.  Liber  Rubeus.  314. 

524.  Eyton  :  Salt  Coll.  Staffs.,  ii  (r),  40,  53. 


NOTES  :    ix  D/7   to  ix  B/4  231 
ix  D/7 

(40X  That  the  '  Sela  cle  Bedeford  1  was  ground  wrhere  '  seals  ' 
(sallows  or  willows)  were  grown,  appears  from  a  grant  of  com- 
mon by  Bedford  Corporation  to  the  Priory  of  Newenham  in 
I5l6,525  which  mentions  i(  the  lands  called  the  Seal."  In  this 
deed  the  word  selion,  meaning  properly  a  strip  of  arable  land, 
seems  to  have  been  misapplied  to  osier  setts,  for  the  Corpora- 
tion were  to  be  permitted  "at  there  pleasure  to  sett  selions 
upon  the  same  [itye]  and  ground  and  to  have  for  evermore, 
as  well  all  the  loppe  and  other  profits  of  the  same  selions  as 
be  thar  so  sett,  as  off  all  ocher  willowyes  nowe  growing  upon 
the  same  leye  and  ground."  The  King's  Mead  is  occasionally 
mentioned  in  Corporation  documents,  and  was  sold  to  Mr. 
Whitbread  in  the  xixth  century. 

ix  D/7a 

(43).  Probably  the  Master  Philip  de  Hauekechirche  to 
whom  Madox  refers.5-6 

ix  D/8 

(40)  .  The  large  sum  of  money  offered  for  the  Shrievalty  shows 
how  profitable  was  the  office  at  this  time. 

ix  E/4 

(41)  ,  Richard  de  Baseville,  who  now  redeems  the  land  which 
he  had  forfeited  by  his  support  of  Count  John,  held  in  Amers- 
ham,  '  Cattestorp,'  Edlcsborough,  and  Ledburn  in  Mentmore 
(xiiiA/i,  xiiiB/2-3,  and  xiiiB/8).  We  may  suppose  him  to  be 
the  son  of  Will,  de  Baseville  who  was  one  of  the  knights  of 
Osbern  Martel  at  Edlesborough  in  1 172, 527  and  seems  to  have 
been  dead  by  1 185  when  the  Sheriff  accounts  for  moneys  from 
his  land.523  In  1201/2  Richard  is  returned  as  holding  a  quar- 
ter-fee.529 By  1206  he  was  dead,  and  his  wife  Sarra  was  pur- 
chased with  her  dower  by  Adulf  de  Gatesden  of  Stanbridge 
for  marriage  to  his  nephew  Oliver.530  His  serjeanty  of  10 
librates  of  land,  held  by  the  service  of  one  sparrow  hawk, 
passed  with  his  daughter  and  heiress  to  Will.  Russell,531  who 
seems  still  to  hold  it  towards  1242532  and  therefore  probably 
married  the  lady. 

52^.  Pearse  :  Bedford  Corporation  Records,  29,  30.  Compare  New  Eng. 
Diet,  under  Seal  and  Sallow. 

526.  Madox  :  Hist.  Exchequer,  i,  85. 

527.  P.R.S.,  xvii,  52. 
52S.  P. U.S.,  xxxiv,  131. 

529.  Lib.  Rub.,   137;   Chanc.   R.  3  John  (R.C.),  354. 

530.  Rot.  Obi.  Fin.,  371  ;  Bk.  Foes,  i,  20. 

531.  Eib.  Rub.,  537. 

532.  Testa  de  Xevill,  24-/0,  etc. 


I 

232  NOTES  :    ix  E/8  to  ix  E/ll 

The  place-name  Cattestrop  seems  to  have  disappeared, 
but  the  spot  was  in  Amersham  (in  parochia  de  Agmondesham 
scilicet  apud  Cattestrop),533  and  near  to  Missenden  and 
Chesham ;  as  it  had  a  mill,  it  was  probably  on  the  so-called 
'  Misbourne  '  river. 

ix  E/8 

(41).  A  view  of  the  land  was  ordered  to  be  taken  in  1 198  ;534 
and  in  1199  the  suit  was  pleaded,  when  Robert  de  Hersin 
claimed  that  Hugh  his  father  was  in  seisin  of  the  manors  in 
the  time  of  King  Henry  the  elder  [  !],  and  the  case  was  remitted 
to  a  Grand  Assise,  but  was  later  postponed  sine  die  because 
the  plaintiff  was  said  to  be  with  the  King's  enemies.535  Com- 
pare N/viiiB/9  for  the  manors. 

ix  E/ll,  12 

(41).  These  items  followed  respectively  the  Promises  of  1 190 
(ixA)  and  the  Offerings  of  1 194  (ixD),  but,  as  new  entries, 
seem  to  be  more  rightly  arranged  under  ixE. 

ix  E/ll 

(41).  The  rights  in  the  land  of  the  various  people  concerned 
are  not  yet  wholly  clear.    The  relationships  appear  to  be:  — 


brother  brother 

I  I 

Adam  Robt.  de  Will.  Peverel 

Tenerchebrai 

Robert  de  Cokefeld  =  Lucy  de  Cokefeld     Hugh  Peverel 

I 

Adam  de  Cokefeld 

It  is  clear  from  our  Rolls  that  Robert  de  Tenerchebrai 
(Tenerbrachium,  Tinchebrai  in  Normandy)  had  held  in  Swan- 
bourne  (40/xiiiB//),  and  probably  also  in  Stewkley;530  and  it 
is  fairly  certain  that  Lucy  was  his  daughter,  against  whom  in 
1 194  Hugh  Peverel  alleged  bastardy  on  the  ground  that  she 
was  born  before  wedlock.537    Her  husband,  Robert  de  Coke- 

533.  Missenden  Cartul.,  f.  73d. 

534.  Cur.  Reg.  Rolls  (R.S.),  i,  38. 

53*.  Rot.  Cur.  Reg.  (R.C.),  ii,  103,  190. 

536.  Cur.  Reg.  Rolls,  i,  17. 

537.  Ret.  Cur.  Reg.,  i,  46. 


NOTE  ixE/16  (ST.  REMY) 


233 


feldi  was  apparently  dead  by  1 1 85  ;53S  through  him  she  had 
claims  on  lands  in  Stokes  (Stoke  Lyne,  co.  Oxon.539),  Hecham 
:  Hitchin,  co.  Suffolk),  and  elsewhere;510  he  drew  his  name 
from  Cockneld,  co.  Suffolk541  as  knight  tenant  there  from  the 
Abbey  of  St.  Edmund,542  and  held  further  fees  in  Norfolk  and 
Essex."3  More  branches  of  the  family  can  be  drawn  from  a 
later  plea.544 — The  parties  had  leave  to  agree,  and  some  details 
of  the  concord  are  given  in  1196;545  the  final  concord  itself  has 
b;*en  printed,546  and  the  enrolment  of  the  deed  forms  our  entry 
41/xivA. 

ix  E/16 

[Note  to  ixE/6] 

(41).  The  principal  lands  of  the  family  of  St.  Remy  (de  sancto 
Remigio)  seem  to  have  lain  in  Normandy;  this  makes  it  dim- 
cult  to  trace  them  in  England,  and  the  following  account  should 
therefore  be  accepted  with  reserve.547  An  early  Robert  de 
St.  Remy,  who  distinguished  himself  in  Normandy  in  1 105, 548 
may  have  been  father  of  that  Robert  who  with  his  brothers 
Richard  and  John  attested  a  charter  of  Henry  II  when  only 
Duke  of  Normandy  in  1151;549  this  second  Robert  appears 
on  the  Oxon.  Pipe  Rolls  in  1158  and  1 165. 550  Richard  attests 
from  1 151  to  1 164, 551  and  in  11 56  was  charged  on  the  Pipe 
Rolls  for  Danegelcl  in  Hunts.,  Oxon.,  Notts,  and  Derbs.,  and 
Warws.  A  third  Robert  was  amerced  in  11 76  the  large  sum 
of  iooli.  as  a  forest  fine  on  his  sons  in  Oxon.,  and  in  the  next 
year  was  tallaged  for  Iff  ley,  co.  Oxon. ;  in  1 180  he  was  amerced 
in  Hunts.552  On  our  Rolls  he  appears  as  holding  Wilden  co. 
Beds.,  a  manor  of  the  Honour  of  '  Peverel  of  Dover/  and  as 
forfeited  for  adherence  to  Count  John  (40/xiiiC/4,  4i/xiiiE/4); 
in  the  present  entry  he  makes  fine  to  recover  this  land.  This 
Robert  married  a  daughter  of  Thomas  Bardolf,  and  received 
with  her  a  portion  in  Bradwell  co.  Essex;553  he  also  held  a 

538.  Rot.  Dominabus,  P.R.S.  xxxv,  56,  where  her  name  seems  to  supply 
the  missing  words. 

539.  Feudal  Aids,  iv.  Index. 

540.  Bracton  :  Note  Book,  iii,  116;  Rot.  Cur.  Reg.,  i,  46. 

541.  Cur.  Reg.  Rolls,  i,  430. 

542.  D.B.,  ii,  359a.    Cf.  P.R.S.,  xvii,  9;  xx,  44. 

543.  Lib.  Rub.,  352,  364,  397. 

544.  Bracton  :  Note  Book,  iii,  116. 

545.  P.R.S.,  xxiv,  221,  241. 

546.  T.R.S.,  xvii,  122. 

547.  This  note  corrects  and  amplifies  B.H.R.S.,  v,  234  cote. 

548.  Bouquet  :  Hist.  France,  xiii,  251. 

549.  Cal.  Doc.  France,  i,  298. 

550.  P.R.,  1157/8  (R.C.)  150;  P.R.S.,  viii,  71. 

551.  Fyton  :  itin.  Henry  II;  Cal.  Doc.  France. 

552.  P.R.S. ,  xxv,  31;  xxvi,  15;  xxix,  37. 

553.  Lib.  Rub.,  499. 


234 


NOTES  ;   ix  F/2,  ix  F/4 


tenth  of  a  fee  in  Grancdeo  co,  Hunts,  of  the  Honour  of 
Gloucester.554  One  of  his  sons  married  Juliana,  sister  of 
William  de  Similly  (N/iiE/7).555  In  1204  the  lands  of  Robert 
and  Richard  (who  may  have  been  brother  or  son  of  Robert), 
lying-  in  Wilden,  were  to  be  surveyed  and  valued;  they  were 
evidently  forfeited55'5  because  they  elected  to  be  Normans  on 
the  severance  of  the  Duchy.  Robert's  share  of  Wilden  was 
granted  to  Peter  de  Maulay,557  but  a  half  fee  in  that  manor 
passed  to  William  de  St.  Remy,  who  was  therefore  probably 
a  son  of  Richard  and  had  elected  to  be  English;558  William 
succeeded  Robert  at  Gransden,559  but  did  not  secure  Bradwell 
which  was  given  in  1205  to  Thomas  fitz  Bernard 
(N/viiiC/iSu)560  who  bestowed  it  on  his  daughter  in  law  Alice 
de  Jarponville  (N/ixA/13);  nor  did  he  get  Mapledurham  co. 
Hants,  which  also  had  been  held  by  Robert.561 


ix  F/2 

(42).  The  Final  Concord  of  this  suit  for  a  virgate  in  Hadden- 
ham  co.  Bucks,  has  been  printed.562  William  son  of  Ralf 
held  a  fee  of  the  Honour  of  Wallmgford  in  1199/ 1200,  but  it 
is  nearly  impossible  to  trace  a  patronymic  of  this  kind  except 
by  accident. 

None  of  the  family  of  St.  Faith  (de  sancta  Fide)  appear 
among  the  scutages  on  our  Rolls,  but  they  held  a  half  fee  in 
Chilton  co.  Bucks.,— Roger  de  Sancta  Fide  before  1 166,  Walter 
after  that  date,  presumably  the  John  of  the  present  entry  at  the 
period  of  our  Rolls,  and  Hamo  towards  124.2. 563  Roger,  with 
Walter  and  his  wife  Isabel,  their  daughter  Margery  and  her 
husband  Henry  Bernard  (42/ixG/26),  are  recorded  as  benefac- 
tors of  Notley  Abbey.564 


ix  F/4 

(42).  A  payment  of  8d.  was  omitted  by  the  scribe. 


554.  Lib.  Rub.,  154;  Chanc.  Roll,  3  John  (R.C.)  55. 

555.  Rot.  Scacc.  Norm.,  i,  191 ;  cf.  Cal.  Doc.  France,  i,  189. 
5^6.  Rot.  Lit.  Claus.,  i,  12. 

557.  Rot.  Lit.  Clans.,  i,  75b. 

558.  Rot.  Norm.  (R.C.)  130;  Lib.  Rub.,  538,  592. 
559-  Lib.  Rub.,  530,  610;  Rot.  Obi.  Fin.,  336. 

560.  Lib.  Rub.,  499. 

561.  Rot.  Litt.  Claus.,  i.  12b. 

562.  Hunter:  Feet  of  Fines,  i,  155;  compare  i,  153. 

563.  Lib.  Rub.,  313;  P.R.S.,  ix,  15;  Testa  de  Nevill,  247a. 

564.  Lipscomb  :  Bucks.,  i,  135. 


NOTE  ixF/6 


235 


ix  F/6 

(42).  Geoffrey  de  Belewe  (de  Bella  Aqua)  is  presumed  to  have 
been  son  of  Gilbert  de  Belewe  who  held  3  fees  of  the  Waliing- 
ford  Honour  in  the  carta  of  '  1166.'565  Geoffrey  had  inherited 
by  1 186  when  he  was  amerced  on  a  Forest  Plea  for  Bucks.,366 
and  our  entry  seems  to  show  him  as  recently  dead  in  1 196. 
It  is  clear  that  he  left  at  least  two  daughters,  Matilda  who 
married  [?  Milo]  Neirnuit  and  had  a  son  Milo  Neirnuit,  and 
Alice  who  married  firstly  Thomas  son  of  Richard  and  perhaps 
later  John  de  Cheyney ;  and  it  appears  from  their  payments 
on  relief  in  1204  that  Geoffrey  held  in  [Fleet]  Marston  co. 
Bucks,  and  in  Kingston  [Blount]  co.  Oxon.567  But  several 
points  in  the  early  history  of  this  family  are  still  unexplained. 

Samson  de  la  Pomeraie  was  probably  a  cadet  of  the  Devon 
house  which  has  left  its  name  on  Berry  Pomeroy.  Whether  he 
married  the  daughter  who  is  the  subject  of  this  reference,  or 
or  merely  had  custody  of  her  and  her  lands,  is  not  yet  abso- 
lutely certain;  but  he  seems  to  have  succeeded  to  Geoffrey's 
three  fees  (42/ixG/20) ;  from  pleas  brought  by  Samson  and 
his  wife  Cristiana  up  to  1201  it  seems  very  probable  that  she 
was  a  third  (and  eldest)  daughter  of  Geoffrey,  and  that  Oakley 
and  Linley  (near  Chinnor  and  Kingston  Blount)  co.  Oxon.,568 
and  Upton  by  Dinton  co.  Bucks,  were  part  of  Geoffrey's 
fee;  the  latter  was  held  by  the  service  of  finding  in  the  active 
army  and  in  the  castle-guard  of  Wallingford  two  horses  (and 
knights)  with  shield  and  lance,  while  Samson  was  to  supply 
the  knights  reasonably  with  other  things  when  on  duty.569  If 
Cristiana  were  indeed  the  daughter  of  Geoffrey  de  Belewe,  she 
died  apparently  in  or  before  1204,  to  be  succeeded  by  her 
sisters.  Samson  seems  to  disappear  from  the  county,  and  is 
replaced  on  the  Wallingford  register  of  1211/ 12  by  Milo  Neir- 
nuit and  John  de  Cheyney  ;570  perhaps  as  compensation,  he  was 
granted  10  librates  of  land  forfeited  by  Normans  in  Yorkshire 
in  1 204. 571  During  his  tenure  from  the  Honour,  Samson  seems 
to  have  acquired  an  additional  knight's  fee,572  and  his  succes- 
sors each  held  2  fees. 


C565.  Liber  Rubeus,  309. 

566.  P.R.S.,  xxvi,  36. 

567.  Rot.  Obi.  Fin.,  63,  224,  232 ;  Lib.  Rub.,  598. 

568.  Cur.  Reg.  Rolls  (R.S.),  i,  159. 

569.  P.R.S.  xxiii,  44;  or  Hunter:  Fines  i,  160/1. 

570.  Lib.  Rub.,  c;qS,  146,  600. 

571.  Rot.  Lit.  Ciaus.,  i,  12b. 

572.  Lib.  Rub.,  146;  Chanc.  Roll,  3  John  (R.C.),  268. 


236 


NOTES  :    ix  F/7,   ix  G 


ix  F/7 

(42).  This  new  item,  tacked  on  to  the  end  of  the  Offerings 
before  the  Archbp.  of  Canterbury  in  1194,  seems  to  belong 
rightly  to  his  remitments  of  this  year. 

William  appears  to  be  son  of  Simon  de  Hulmo,  who  held 
in  Ed  worth  early  in  Richard's  reign,573  and  therefore  probably 
drew  his  name  from  the  adjacent  Holme  in  Biggleswade. 

ix  G 

(42).  This  section  deserves  a  little  consideration,  as  it  is 
apparently  the  first  schedule  of  those  1  Fines  '  for  exemption 
from  military  service  which  later  became  conspicuous  sources 
of  revenue  (levied  in  addition  to  the  already  long-standing 
scutage),  and  at  the  time  of  Edward  I  have  been  the  subject 
of  a  recent  study.574  In  the  first  place  there  is  no  question 
here  of  their  being  (as  has  been  suggested)  payments  by  the 
undertenant  in  addition  to  the  scutage  on  the  overlord,  because 
the  first  36  entries  deal  with  the  Honour  of  Wallingford,  and 
the  fees  were  therefore  all  held  in  chief  from  the  Crown. 
Secondly,  a  consideration  of  the  size  of  the  fees  taxed  and  of 
the  sums  demanded  will  show  that  there  was  no  direct  ratio 
between  the  two;  13s.  4d.  was  exacted  for  a  fifth  quarter  and 
third  of  a  fee;  and  a  complete  fee  was  called  upon  for 
ili.  6s.  8d.,  for  2I1.  (in  3  cases),  and  for  $li.  Roughly  speak- 
ing, the  larger  the  fee,  the  heavier  was  the  impost;  but,  so 
far  as  this  present  schedule  is  concerned,  we  can  only  conclude 
that  the  Exchequer  arbitrarily  demanded  the  highest  sum  which 
it  considered  the  tenant  likely  to  pay.  This  can  be  illustrated 
by  the  round  sums  of  money  exacted  from  Simon  de  Beauchamp 
for  exemption: — 20m.  in  1 104,  40m.  in  1195,  40m.  in  1 197 
(compare  N/i  to  R.  40-43). 

ix  G/I  to  36 

(42).  The  list  of  the  Honour  of  Wallingford  is  something  of 
a  puzzle.  In  the  first  place  it  exhibits  about  56  and  5/12  fees  ;  this 
appears  to  be  a  great  deal  more  than  the  Bucks,  fees  of  the 
Honour,  and  a  great  deal  less  than  the  total  number  on  the 
Honour  (reckoned  at  100^  fees).  Not  only  so,  but  when  corn- 
pared  with  D.B.  it  obviously  omits  a  number  of  the  Bucks, 
fees;  and  out  of  the  36  holdings  on  this  list,  at  present  only 
14  have  been  tentatively  identified  as  in  Bucks,  or  Beds.  Using 
the  serial  numbers  in  the  list,  these  are 

573.  Cur.  Reg.  Rolls  (R.S.),  i,  x. 

574.  Chow:  Eng.  Hist.  Rev.,  xxxvii,  3.21. 


NOTES  :    ix  G/9,  ix  G/H  237 


2.  Wingrave 
6.  liedsor 
8.  Penn(?) 
o.  Bcachendon 
14.  Quainton 
16.  Wormston 
20.  Fleet  Marston 
23.  Wycombe  (pars) 


26.  Ashendon 

27.  probably  Dorney 
29.  Eddrpp  (Eythorpe) 

31.  Bottle  Claydon 

32.  Shabbington 

34.  Marsworth   and  Clapham 
(Beds.) 


An  extensive  but  still  incomplete  list  of  1235/6575  shows 
30}  fees  of  this  Honour  in  Bucks,  and  Beds. 

ix  G/9 

(42).  The  Carbonels  held  one  fee  in  Beachendon  of  the  Honour 
of  Wallingford,  and  a  half  fee  in  Addington  of  the  Honour 
of  Querndon  (apparently  Quarrendon,  the  head  of  the  Domes- 
day Barony  of  Mandeville)  and  in  Badinton  which  we  have 
not  identified.576  Carbonel  with  no  font-name  held  a  fee  of 
the  Wallingford  Honour  in  *  1166  '  ;577  the  Harao  of  our  entry, 
and  his  brother  Richard  (d.  before  1 197/8)  were  presumably 
his  sons,578  and  their  sister  Matilda  married  Geoffrey  de  Upton 
(N/viiN/13).  The  family  continued  to  hold  their  Bucks, 
lands  till  1284/6. 579  Though  the  name  Carbonel  is  occasionally 
found  back  to  1084,  it  has  not  yet  been  found  possible  to  trace 
a  line  of  descent. 

ix  G/14 

(42).  The  font-name  of  Yrvoi  Malet  appears  in  many  forms 
(Irevey,  Irevoi,  Urvei,  etc.),  but  seems  to  be  represented  by 
the  modern  Hervey.  By  the  help  of  a  later  plea5S0  it  is  pos- 
sible to  make  out  some  of  the  earlier  generations.  1  Quentona 
Iruoi,'  that  is  Quainton  of  Irvoi  afterwards  called  Quainton 
Malet,581  occurs  as  early  as  1 167, 582  and  the  same  Urveius  held 
1 1  fees  of  the  Honour  of  Wallingford  in  ii66;583  he  or  his  son 
Ruelent  (Roland)  gave  to  Notley  Abbey  the  hermitage  of  Fine- 
more  near  Quainton. 5 s4  Ruelent,  who  was  amerced  on  a  forest 
plea  in  1 185, 585  is  stated  in  the  plea  already  quoted  to  have 


5715.  Bk.  Fees,  i,  555/6;  compare  ibid.,  118/20. 

576.  Bk.  Tees,  i,  461  ;  Testa  de  Nevill,  244a. 

577.  Lib.  Rub.,  309. 

578.  Hunter  :  Fines,  i,  161  ;  or  P.R.S.,  xxiii,  130. 

579.  Testa  de  Nevill,  257,  244;  Feud.  Aids,  i,  75,  81. 

580.  Assise  Roll  55  (II il.  25  Hen.  Ill),  mem.  iod. 

581.  Lipscomb  :  Hist.  Bucks.,  i,  392. 
5S2.  P.R.S.,  xi,  no. 

583.  Lib.  Rub.,  310. 

584.  Lipscomb  :  i,  220. 
5S5.  P.R.S.,  xxiv,  138. 


238 


NOTES  :    ix  G/25-  ix  G/4i 


been  in  the  servire  of  King  Richard  in  Dover  Castle  and  to 
have  died  on  his  way  from  Dover  to  Iver  co.  Bucks.,  where 
the  family  also  held  land.  By  i  log  the  Yrvoi  of  this  entry 
had  succeeded  him,386  and  was  still  alive  in  12 17. 587 

ix  G/25 

(42).  Though  a  Robert  Dairel  occurs,  apparently  for  one  fee, 
on  the  Pipe  Roll  of  Bucks,  and  Beds,  in  n63,58S  the  only  name 
suggestive  of  a  Dairei  which  appears  on  the  11 66  carta  of  the 
Crendon  Honour  of  Earl  Giffard  (from  which  Lillingstone  Day- 
rell  was  held")  is  that  of  Ralf  "  de  Lucintone,'589  which  may 
stand  for  Lillingston.  In  1 167  however  the  vill  is  recorded 
as  Litlingestane  Daireli;590  and  it  seems  possible  that  the  first 
de  Aireh  perhaps  the  Ralf  who  attested  a  charter  of  Bucks, 
lands  to  Longueville  Priory  in  11 84, 391  was  a  cadet  of  a  known 
Warwicks.  and  Yorks.  family  who  acquired  the  manor  by  mar- 
riage. One  Elias  Dairel  sued  for  a  messuage  in  Lillingstone 
in  right  of  his  dead  brother  Richard,592  but  it  has  not  been 
found  possible  to  clear  up  the  family  at  this  early  date.  They 
held  also  a  half  fee  in  Hanworth  co.  Middx.  of  the  Honour  of 
Wallingford  (hence  the  present  entry),  and  Ralf  appears  in 
its  carta  of  '  n66.'593 

ix  G/41 

(42).  There  are  references  to  four  members  of  the  St.  Walery 
family  in  our  Rolls,  and  it  will  be  convenient  to  take  them 
together.  This  family  has  been  already  traced  from  the  xth. 
century  by  one  of  the  present  Editors,594  so  that  it  will  be 
enough  to  indicate  his  conclusions  as  to  the  relationships  of 
the  four,  and  to  mention  the  lands  in  the  two  shires  with  which 
they  were  connected. 

Bernard  inherited  the  Domesday  Barony  of  Roger  de  Ivri 
about  1166  and  died  about  1191  ;  his  Bucks,  lands  ranked  for 
3!  fees,  and  included  Westbury  Radclive  and  Thornton  besides 
lesser  holdings.  Annora  his  daughter  married  Walter  de  West- 
biri  and  held  in  Westbury,  as  well  as  in  Clanefield  co.  Oxon. 
(44/1XH/6)  in  which  county  the  Honour  chiefly  lay.  Thomas 
was  certainly  the  son  who  inherited  the  Ivri  Barony,  but  Guy 

586.  Lib.  Rub.,  141;. 

587.  Rot.  Lit.  Claus.,  i,  325. 

588.  P.R.S.,  vi,  19. 

589.  Lib.  Rub.,  312. 

590.  P.R.S.,  xi,  108. 

591.  Cal.  Doc  France,  78. 

592.  P.R.S.,  xiv,  5. 

593.  Lib.  Rub.,  145,  310,  543;  Rot.  Obi.  Fin.,  164. 

594.  Genealogist  (n.s.),  xxx,  1-17. 


NOTES:    ixG/42,  ix  H/l 


239 


appears  to  have  been  a  son  by  an  earlier  wife  who  held  in 
A  spicy  Guise  and  (probably)  Henlow,  co.  Beds.  Matilda, 
another  daughter  and  probably  Guy's  full  sister,  is  mentioned 
under  her  husband  Will,  de  Braose  (N/viiiC/i8v). 

Matilda  i.  =  Bernard  de  St.  Walery  =  2.  Alanora 


Albreda    =  1  GuydeSt.  Matilda  =  Will,  de  Thomas  =  Edela  Annora  = 


Taiilebois 


Walery 


Braose 


/W 


of 

Ponthieu 


Walt,  de 
Westbiri 


ix  G/42 

(42).  Adulf  de  Gatesden  of  Gaddesden  co.  Herts,  who  held 
the  manor  of  Stanbridge  by  falconer  serjeanty,595  appears  here 
for  his  wife's  share  of  the  Bidun  fief  (see  N/ixA/i). 

ix  H/l 

(42).  Ruelent  or  Rolent  de  An  vers  (de  Alverso)  held  two  fees 
of  the  Honour  of  Wallingford  in  1166;596  by  1 186  he  was  dead 
and  Gilbert  Basset  had  his  lands  at  farm;597  they  were  Dorney 
co.  Bucks,  with  a  messuage  at  Wycombe,  Acton  (Hactune  Hot- 
ton  etc.)  co.  Middlesex,  and  Badgmore  (Baderug,  Baggerige) 
co.  Oxon.,598  the  latter  came  from  his  uncle  Meinfelin.599  The 
parentage  of  his  wife  Alice  (44/1XH/9)  has  not  been  traced. 
His  heir  Ralf  paid  to  have  his  lands  in  1201  ;600  he  died  towards 
1213,601  but  the  family  continued  to  hold  in  Dorney.602  A 
parallel  family  of  this  name  is  to  be  found  at  Fawler  co.  Oxon. 
at  the  beginning  of  the  xiijth.  century603  and  earlier.  The 
surname  appears  to  have  been  originally  de  Auuers,  and  the 
witnesses  to  a  French  charter604  suggest  Auvers  le  Hamon  in 
Mayenne  as  a  possible  source;  later,  whether  by  an  intrusive 
n,  or  from  imitation  of  a  genuine  de  Anvers  *  of  Antwerp,'605 
it  undoubtedly  became  Danvers.606 

595.  B.H.R.S.,  v,  221-225. 

596.  Lib.  Rub.,  309. 

597.  P.R.S.,  xxxvi,  116. 

598.  P.R.S.,  xxxvii,  22;  Lib.  Rub.,  543,  cclxxxiii.  The  Rev.  H.  Salter 
was  good  enough  to  identify  '  Baderug  '  for  us. 

599.  P.R.S.,  xxx,  113. 

600.  Rot.  Obi.  Fin.,  12S;  Chanc.  Roll  3  John  (R.C),  266. 

601.  Rot.  Obi.  Fin.,  467. 

602.  Bk.  Fees,  i,  461. 

603.  Cartul.  Eynsham,  O.H.S.,  i,  141-145. 

604.  Cal.  Doc.  France,  424. 

605.  Wcekley  :  Romance  of  Names,  100. 
6c6.  Feudal  Aids,  iii,  375. 


240 


NOTES  :    ix  H/4,  ix  H/5 


ix  H/4 

(43).  Elias  clcricus  de  Hmten  (the  '  Clerk  '  seems  already  to 
be  a  surname)  drew  his  name  from  Hinton  in  the  Hedges  near 
Brackley;  this  was  a  4/5ths.  fee  of  the  Honour  of  Mandeville, 
from  which  in  1 166  he  held  in  all  4  fees;607  his  name  occurs 
in  the  '  Northants.  Survey.'608  So  far  as  our  entries  are  con- 
cerned, it  appears  that  he  received  land  from  Henry  de  Pin- 
keny  of  Wedon  in  Ellesborough,  and  left  at  least  two  daugh- 
ters, Matilda  who  married  William  de  Medmenham,  and  Mabel 
with  whom  Nicholas  Malherbe  eloped/'09  By  1 198  Mabel  had 
secured  by  a  suit  at  law  3  Jh.  in  Ellesborough  (for  which  Henry 
de  Pinkeny  as  warrantor  had  to  give  equivalent  land  in  Ful- 
mere  to  Matilda),  and  Nicholas  and  Mabel  conveyed  them  to 
Simon  de  Maidewell.610  Outside  our  shires  are  further  com- 
plications of  the  family  de  Hinten,  due  probably  to  children 
by  another  wife  of  Elias.611 

ix  H/5 

(43).  Lovel  or  Lupellus  de  Peri  or  de  Brai,  who  attested  char- 
ters of  Henry  de  Oilli  in  the  reign  of  Henry  I612  is  the  first 
yet  traced  in  this  family ;  he  accounted  for  the  Census  of  the 
Forest  in  Bucks,  and  Beds,  in  1 130. 613  Scant  mention  of  his 
son  Fulk  Lovel  has  been  noticed,  but  it  seems  that  he  and 
Geoffrey  de  Pleissi  were  both  sons  of  a  Basilea,  and  that  at  least 
Fulk  was  her  son  by  Lovel  de  Peri.614  The  two  references  last 
cited,  and  others,  show  Emma  de  Peri  (often  by  error  Perci), 
Fulk  Lovel' s  daughter,  as  involved  in  litigation  from  1 194 
to  at  least  1200;  she  claimed  a  half  knight's  fee  in  Teiden 
(not  identified),  a  fee  in  Acleia  (Oakley  co.  Bucks.,  honour 
of  Wallingford),  and  one  fee  in  Corfton  (Corston  co.  Wilts., 
honour  of  Gloucester);  she  also  claimed  dower  in  Worminghall 
co.  Bucks,  (honour  of  Gloucester).615  Under  the  various  styles 
of  Will.  s.  of  Will.  s.  of  Elias,  Will.  s.  of  Will.,  Will.  s.  of 
Elias,  and  Will,  de  Peri,  her  son  is  found  to  hold  in  the  last 
three  at  a  later  date;616  her  suits  were  therefore  successful. 
Her  claim  for  dower  discloses  her  husband's  family,  benefactors 

607.  Lib.  Rub.,  67,  345. 

608.  V.C.H.  Northants.,  i,  373. 

609.  P.R.S.,  xiv,  125/6. 

610.  Cur.  Reg.  Rolls  (R.S.),  i,  62;  Hunter,  Fines,  i,  180. 

611.  Hunter,  Fines,  i,  144-146. 

612.  Abingdon  Cart.,  ii,  68,  74,  103. 

613.  P.R.,  1130,  R.C.,  1 01. 

614.  Missenden  Cart.,  fo.  132;  Rot.  Cur.  Reg.,  i,  22;  P.R.S.,  xiv,  25. 

615.  P.R.S.,  xiv,  2Q,  where  it  is  transcribed  as  Wriuele  for  Wrmele. 

616.  Oakley,  Bk.  Fees,  i,  461,  555;  Corston,  Testa,  136b;  Worminghall, 
Testa,  245a. 


NOTE  «H/5  (PERI,   MOREL,  EASSET) 


242 


NOTES  :   ix  H/8  to  ix  H/12 


of  St.  Frideswide  in  Worminghall  and  in  Thomley  co. 
Oxon.  ;617  and  fixes  the  Peri  of  which  she  was  the  Lady  as 
(Water)  Perry,  co.  Oxon. ;  this  abuts  on  Oakley  Worminghall 
and  Thomley,  and  was  held  with  Ledhalle  jointly  by  Will, 
ftt.  Will.  hi.  Elie  towards  1242. 618  The  family  patronymic 
early  crystallised  into  a  surname,  and  is  traceable  so  late  as 
1428,  when  John  Fitzelyzs  still  held  Thomley.619 

The  Bassets  of  Oakley  co.  Bucks.,  who  held  also  in  Ips- 
den  co.  Oxon.  of  the  Honour  of  Wallmgford  by  gift  of  Brian 
fitz  Count020  must  be  distinguished  from  the  Bassets  of  Clap- 
ham  and  Oakley  co.  Beds,  in  the  same  Honour.621  Emma 
de  Peri  won  the  manor  from  Will.  Basset  in  the  suit  which 
this  entry  records.622 

ix  H/8 

(44).  Asceline  is  inferred  from  a  plea  of  1194623  to  have  been 
the  second  wife  of  Henry  Pirun,  who  held  in  Santisdun  (Saun- 
derton  co.  Bucks.)  and  Wallingford,  and  to  have  been  mother 
of  Hamo  Pirun,  whom  his  sister  Cecily  wife  of  Roger  de  Stan- 
ford sued  for  the  fee  on  the  ground  that  it  was  the  inheritance 
of  her  mother  Isabel,  daughter  of  William  son  of  Restoud; 
Cecily  was  successful  in  her  suit.624 

ix  H/ll 

(44).  Robert  de  Pinkeny,  apparently  the  tenant  of  Wingrave 
and  Rowsham  (N/viiiB/9)  is  probably  fined  for  absence  from 
his  post  in  Normandy;  Madox  cites  similar  cases.625 

ix  H/12 

(44).  Robert  de  Siffrewast,  taking  name  from  a  village  in  the 
Cotentin,  was  probably  cadet  of  a.  Berks,  family  coming  into 
the  county  by  marriage.  By  the  style  of  Robert  son  of  Richard 
de  Siffrewast  he  gave  100  marks  for  his  lands  in  Chesham  in 
1 167, 626  and  appears  from  our  entry  to  be  recently  dead  in 
1 198.  His  benefaction  to  Missenden  Abbey  was  confirmed 
by  his  son  Richard.627    William  de  Broughton  of  this  entry 

617.  Cart.  St.  Frideswide,  Oxf.  Hist.  Soc,  charters  856,  862-868.  These 
charters  seem  to  require  redating. 

618.  Testa,  101b,  105a.  Being  of  the  Honour  of  Wallingford,  Perry  and 
Ledhall  are  probably  the  Pereiun  and  Ludewelle  held  by  Nigel  de  Oilli  in 
1086  (D.B.,  158b). 

619.  Feudal  Aids,  iv,  199. 

620.  Bracton  :  Note  Book,  iii,  535. 

621.  B.H.R.S.,  v,  240-242. 

622.  Bracton  :  Note  Book,  iii,  309. 

623.  P.R.S.,  xiv,  9;  cf.  Cur.  Reg.  Rolls  (R.S.),  i,  418. 

624.  Bk.  Fees,  i,  119,  556. 

62$.  Madox  :  Hist.  Exchequer,  i,  39. 

626.  P.R.S.,  xi,  165. 

627.  Cartul.  Missenden,  fo.  64/5. 


NOTES  :    ix  H/16  to  x 


243 


.arned  his  daughter  Roheise,628  and  an  unnamed  daughter 
,>parcntly  married  Robert  de  Pinkeny  of  Wingrave 
S/viiiB/9).  By  1200  Richard  de  Siffrewast  had  succeeded 
to  the  Chesham  land,  and  is  subsequently  found  connected  with 
•ft  in  fines  and  pleas.629  The  Richard  who  appears  at  the  end 
of  the  *  1 166  '  carta  of  the  Wallingford  Honour630  seems  to 
form  part  of  an  addendum  to  the  list;  none  of  the  holdings 
in  Chesham  in  1086  are  referable  to  this  Honour. 

ix  H/16,  17 

(44).  These  ladies  paid  '  pro  pace  de  se  mantanda,'  the  phrase 
probably  meaning  permission  to  avoid  marriage  or  re-marriage 
as  in  44/ixH/8  (compare  Magna  Carta,  art.  8).  But  the 
phrase  might  mean  forgiveness  for  marrying  without  the  royal 
leave. 

ix  H/19 

(44).  Agatha  Trussebut  was  widow  of  Hamo  son  of  Hamo  son 
of  Meinfelin  (N/viiB/16),  and  daughter  and  coheiress  of  Wil- 
liam Trussebut  of  Warter  co.  Yks.  She  appears  here  as  about 
to  marry  the  Sheriff,  William  de  Albini  Bnto  (N/i),  and  had 
dower  from  her  first  husband  in  Bucks,  on  the  Honour  of 
Wolverton.631 

x. 

(37).  The  use  of  this  term  to  cover  financial  transactions  be- 
tween Jews  and  Christians  is  convenient  as  a  heading  to  items 
of  this  character,  which  are  kept  together  on  the  original  Roll. 
They  appear  already  to  be  dealt  with  at  special  sittings  of 
the  Curia  (xB,  xC),  though  the  special  legislation  for  their 
regulation  had  not  as  yet  taken  shape. 

The  Jews  of  the  two  counties  were  fairly  numerous :  a 
document  entitled  "  Receipt  of  moneys,  paid  at  Westminster, 
of  the  promise  of  the  Jews  of  all  England  given  at  Northamp- 
ton after  the  return  of  the  lord  King  from  Almain " ;  and 
endorsed  "  concerning  the  Jews  in  Easter  Term  of  the  5th 
year  of  King  Richard,"  gives  the  names  of  the  Jew  usurers 
in  each  town  or  shire.632    The  list  for  these  counties  is 

Isaac  s.  of  Mosse,  2S.  of  gold.  Peter  Blundus,  8s. 

Fluer  de  Liz,  4s.  Ursell  de  Bedeford',  8s. 

Peter  Blundus,  2s.  Isaac  de  Hicche,  2s. 
Peter  s.  of  Mosse,  Ss. 


628.  Hunter  :  Fines,  i,  233. 

629.  Cur.  Reg.  Rolls  (R.S.),  i,  180,  352;  Hunter:  Fines,  i,  191,  194, 
197,  etc. 

630.  Lib.  Rub.,  311. 

631.  Cur.  Reg.  Rolls  (R.S.),  i,  34. 

632.  P.R.O.,  Excheq.  Account  249/2. 


244 


NOTES  :    x  A  to  x  A/4 


x  A. 

(37).  Aaron  of  Lincoln  seems  to  have  been  the  chief  financier 
of  his  day;  a  reliable  tradition  regards  the  interesting-  '  Nor- 
man '  house  at  the  head  of  Steep  Hill  in  Lincoln,  with  walls 
of  three  to  four  feet  in  thickness,  as  having  been  his  home. 
The  vast  power  wielded  by  the  money-lenders  of  the  time  is 
shown  by  the  fact  that  he  held  the  sacred  vessels  and  jewels 
of  Lincoln  Cathedral  in  pledge  for  seven  years.033  He  died 
in  1 1 87;  his  treasure  was  seized  by  Henry  II  to  finance  the 
war  in  France,  but  was  lost  at  sea  with  a  great  part  of  the 
royal  household  between  Shoreham  and  Dieppe.634  The 
accounts  of  his  uncollected  debts  run  on  for  many  years.  The 
items  below  relate  to  lands  pledged  with,  or  bonds  given  to, 
Aaron. 

x  A/1 

(37).  For  the  Turville  family  see  N/viiiB/15.  While  Full- 
brook  and  Willey  co.  Warws.  are  readily  identifiable,  there 
is  some  doubt  about  Linton.  But  it  appears  to  be  an  incom- 
plete rendering  of  a  Turville  manor  which  appears  as  Pullen- 
ton  and  Pylinton  (12 17),  Paylinton  and  Pallinton  (1222); 
which  Maitland  identified  with  Pailton  co.  Warws.  about  2 
miles  from  Willey.  The  Count  of  Mellent,  predecessor  of  the 
Earls  of  Leicester,  held  it  in  1086  as  Illintone,  identified  by 
V.C.H.635  as  Lillington  co.  Warws.;  but  this  was  land  of 
Turchil  of  Warwick,  and  is  therefore  unlikely.  The  manors 
rather  suggest  that  Isabel  wife  of  William  de  Turville  may 
have  been  a  daughter  of  Simon  de  St.  Liz,  5th.  Earl  of 
Northampton,  by  Isabel  daughter  of  Robert  Earl  of  Leicester. 

x  A/2 

(41).  The  scribe  has  added  ili.  to  the  debt  in  carrying  forward 
from  the  last  Roll. 

x  A/4 

(37).  Earl  Simon  III  de  St.  Liz,  eighth  Earl  of  Huntingdon 
and  Northampton,  for  whom  his  natural  brother  Simon  is  a 
pledge.  The  Earl  died  childless  in  1 184,  and  the  old  debt 
comes  forward  in  consequence  of  Aaron's  death. — For  William 
Mauduit,  the  Earl's  brother  in  law,  see  pedigree  in  N/viiiB/2. 
— The  identification  of  Pornewic  and  Bludeie  has  completely 
baffled  the  editors;  they  are  to  be  expected  among  Countess 
Judith's  lands  in  Bucks,  or  Beds.,  but  search  of  her  Domesday 


633.  Anglia  Sacra,  ii,  418. 

634.  Benedict.  Peterb.  (R.S.  49),  ii,  5. 

635.  V.C.H.  Warws.,  i,  316a. 


NOTES  :    x  C/l   to  xii  A 


245 


holdings  in  every  county  has  thrown  no  light  on  their  where- 
a  bouts. — Ralf  monachus  was  a  puzzle,  until  shown  by  R.  44 
to  be  an  error  for  Ralf  Monti  (N/xiiiC/2). 

x  C/l 

[38).  Massacres  of  Jews  occurred  during-  the  spring  of  1190  at 
Norwich,  Bury  St.  Edmund,  Lynn,  Stamford,  and  York;  to 
which  Thetford  may  be  added  on  the  strength  of  this  entry. 
These  outrages  were  severely  punished  by  King  Richard. 

x  C/3 

(38).  At  Domesday  Turstin  de  Giron  held  Dunton  co.  Bucks., 
and  as  1  Turstin  '  simply  he  had  also  Foxcote  or  Foscott, 
the  place  of  the  present  entry;636  both  were  held  of  the  Bishop 
of  Bayeux,  as  was  also  one  of  the  Kentish  Bucklands,  where 
he  appears  as  Turstin  de  Girunde.637  A  fine  dated  1197638 
conveys  Foxcote  from  his  descendants  Hamo  de  Girunde  and 
his  son  Philip  to  Walter  de  la  Haie;  as  Hamo  is  evidently  in 
possession  of  the  Bucks,  lands  from  1171/2  to  1203/4, 639  the 
name  Hugh  in  the  entry  on  our  Roll  is  probably  an  error. 
According  to  Lipscomb640  the  alienation  by  this  fine  was  per- 
manent; and  if  the  entry  is  really  referable  to  Judaica  (as 
indicated  by  the  two  items  which  it  follows),  Walter  probably 
paid  off  the  principal  of  the  mortgage  and  took  the  manor  in 
pledge,  to  be  held  from  the  Girunde  family.  The  Girunde 
lands  seem  from  later  entries  to  have  been  held  by  castle  guard 
of  the  Peverel  Ward  of  Dover  Castle. 

xi 

(38).  While  this  is  the  traditional  position  for  the  account  of 
goods  seized  by  the  Sheriff  for  felony  and  sold,  on  this  series 
of  Rolls  they  are  more  often  to  be  found  among  the  revenues 
arising  from  Eyres. 

xii  A. 

(38).  The  royal  manor  of  Brill  has  been  used  above  (Intro- 
duction, §  16)  as  an  illustration  of  the  difficulty  of  tracing  a 
subject  through  the  confusion  of  the  Pipe  Rolls.  Allowance 
is  duly  made  for  its  loss  to  the  Sheriff's  Farm  (38/iiE)/ 14). 
But  at  the  date  of  this  Roll  (38)  the  transference  has  evidently 
not  yet  been  completed;  the  blank  left  on  the  Roll  for  1  debet  ' 
or  '  reddit  compotum  '  was  left  unfilled  ;  the  words  '  in  thesauro  * 
were  written  but  no  sum  of  money  was  entered  after  them. 

636.  V.C.H.,  Bucks.,  i,  237a,  238a. 

637.  D.B.,  i,  10b. 

63S.  Hunter:  Fines,  i,  159,  160;  or  P.R.S.,  zxiii,  38. 

639.  Liber  Rubeus,  52,  90,  137. 

640.  Lipscomb  :  Buckinghamshire,  iii,  13. 


246 


NOTES  :    xii  A/1   to  xiii  A/2 


xil  A/la 

(38).  The  former  entry  iiC/i  is  now  charged  on  the  revenues 
of  Brill ;  possibly  it  was  so  charged  mutely  in  the  earlier  Rolls. 

xii  A/lb 

(38).  These  alms,  formerly  entered  as  Allowance  under  iiD/2, 
were  expressly  charged  on  Brill. 

xii  A/3 

(43).  The  faulty  arithmetic  of  the  scribe  has  been  corrected 
by  id. 

xiii  A/2 

(40).  Eva  del  Broc  was  daughter  of  Eustace  del  Broc,  who 
in  1 1 30  held  in  Surrey  and  Northants,641  apparently  Wey- 
bridge  and  Dallmgton.  She  appears  in  our  counties  as  being 
the  wife  of  Walter  de  CHesney,  grandson642  of  Gozelin  Brito 
who  in  1086  held  both  in  Bucks,  and  in  Beds.643  The  descent 
of  his  lands  is  thus  deduced :  — 

Ralf  de  Langetot 
underten.  1086. 


Gozelin  Brito  Roger  de  =  Alice  de  Langetot 

ten.  in  ch.,  1086.  Chesney 


Hugh  son  of  Gozelin  =  ?  Isabel  Eustace  del  Broc 


Walter  de  Chesney  =  Eva  del  Broc 


Amaury  Dispenser  =  Amabel 

Hugh  s.  of  Gozelin  granted  the  church  of  Cublinton  and 
land  in  Gladley  (by  Leighton  Buzzard)  to  Dunstable  Priory, 
gifts  confirmed  by  his  son  Walter  de  Chesney;644  the  latter 
was  also  a  benefactor  to  Woburn  Abbey  in  Potsgrove.645  Eva 

641.  P.R.  1130,  R.C.,  51,  85. 

642.  Cart.  Eynsham  (Oxf.  Hist.  Soc),  i,  420. 

643.  V.C.H.  Beds.,  i,  256;  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  271. 

644.  Dunstable  Cart.,  fo.  23. 

645.  Mon.  Angl.,  v,  478/9. 


NOTE  xiHB 


247 


hid  her  marriage  portion  in  Dallington,646  a  manor  held  since 
Domesday  from  the  Abbey  of  Peterborough  by  knight  ser- 
rice;**7  she  held  also  in  Wigginton,  co.  Herts.218  It  is  likely 
that  her  crops  had  been  seized  by  the  Sheriff  for  her  having 
supported  John,  for  she  was  not  yet  dead. 

It  seems  clear  from  charters  to  Eynsham049  that  her  heiress 
who  married  Amaury  the  Dispenser650  was  called  Amable, 
but  a  plea  of  121 7651  records  her  as  Matilda;  yet  again,  the 
widow  who  survived  him  is  named  as  Ada  in  1219;652  probably 
at  least  two  marriages  are  concerned. 

xiii  B 

(40).  William  de  sainte  Mere  Eglise653  had  his  name  from  his 
home-place,  a  royal  manor  near  Valognes  in  the  Cotentin.  His 
early  aptitude  for  clerical  pursuits  was  discovered  and  encour- 
aged by  the  chronicler  Robert  of  Torigni,  Abbot  of  Mont  St. 
Michel,  and  was  rewarded  by  Henry  II  with  the  gift  of  a 
living  near  his  old  home  about  1 180/3;  later  he  received  the 
living  of  Harewood  co.  Yorks.,  the  Deanery  of  the  College  of 
St.  Martin  London,  and  other  preferment;  he  is  described 
by  the  King  as  his  protonotary.  Much  attached  to  Archbp. 
Hubert  Walter,  he  accompanied  him  on  his  visit  to  Richard 
in  imprisonment. — On  the  forfeiture  of  John's  adherents  at 
Richard's  return,  he  was  made  Escheator  General  (custos 
eschctarum  Anglie),654  and  in  that  capacity  figures  largely  on 
our  Rolls.  Consecrated  Bishop  of  London  in  1 199,  he  was 
one  of  the  three  Bishops  who  pronounced  the  interdict  on 
England  in  1208  during  the  course  of  John's  quarrel  with  the 
Pope;  he  was  banished,  but  took  an  active  part  in  the  nego- 
tiations for  reconciliation,  and  assisted  at  John's  absolution. 
Restored  to  his  preferments,  he  was  employed  by  the  King 
in  diplomatic  business,  and  added  his  voice  to  those  who 
advised  the  granting  of  Magna  Carta.  In  1221  he  resigned 
his  Bishopric  on  becoming  a  canon  of  St.  Osyth,  dying  in 
1224. — He  had  a  direct  connection  with  Bucks.,  for  the  oldest 
known  Receipt  Roll,  that  for  Easter  1196655  shows  payments 

646.  Rot.  Cur.  Reg.  (R.C.),  ii,  168. 

647.  V.C.H.  Northants.,  i,  392;  Chron.  Peterb.  (Camden  Soc.),  175. 
These  seem  to  suggest  her  mother's  parentage. 

648.  Bracton,  Note  Book,  iii,  321. 

649.  Cartul.  Eynsham,  Oxf.  Hist.  Soc.,  i,  78-81. 

650.  Round  :  King's  Serjeants,  186-197. 

651.  Bracton:  Note  Book,  iii,  321. 

652.  Bk.  Fees,  i,  251. 

653.  D.N.B.,  lxi,  365;  Delisle,  Actes  de  Henri  II,  496. 

654.  Lib.  Rub.,  o^. 

655.  P.R.O.,  Receipt  Roll  1. 


248 


NOTES  :    xiii  B/l   to  xiii  B/12 


.*'  From  William  de  ste.  Mere  Eglise,  20s.  for  talliage,  10s. 
for  his  prebend  of  Gauecote.  From  the  same,  3li.  for  the 
same  talliage  for  his  prebend  of  Waudon."  Gawcott  (Chaues- 
cote)  was  already  attached  to  the  church  of  Buckingham  and 
held  by  the  Bishop  of  Lincoln  at  the  date  of  D.B.,650  and 
evidently  became  a  prebend  of  his  cathedral;  but  Waudon  has 
not  been  traced. 

xiii  B/l 

(40).  The  early  history  of  Olney  is  obscure;  at  Domesday  it 
was  held  by  the  Bishop  of  Coutances,  and  would  escheat  to 
the  King  with  his  other  manors  at  his  death.  Lipscomb657 
states  that  it  was  then  granted  to  the  Earl  of  Chester,  but 
adduces  no  evidence  and  the  statement  certainly  requires  con- 
firmation. Whoever  received  it,  he  would  seem  to  have  died 
or  been  forfeited  about  1 165,  when  the  Sheriff  first  accounts 
for  its  revenue  for  a  half  year  as  a  Propresture.658  It  then 
appears  intermittently  on  the  Pipe  Rolls,  generally  under 
Northants.  where  the  clue  to  its  history  may  perhaps  be  found. 
At  some  date  before  1187659  it  was  evidently  granted  to  the 
Advocate  of  Bethune. 

xiii  B/6 

(40).  Referred  from  4o/iiD/i5  to  be  accounted  on  the  Escheat 
Roll. 

xiii  B/9 

(40).  This  item  appears  to  be  a  normal  escheat,  not  a  forfeiture 
for  rebellion,  for  next  year  the  wardship  of  David's  heir  is 
purchased.  The  mill  appears  to  have  been  held  directly  from 
the  Crown. 

xiii  B/10 

(40).  Wendover,  as  a  manor  of  the  Ancient  Demesne  of  King 
Edward,  should  rightly  be  under  the  Sheriff,  but  has  been 
temporarily  shifted  to  the  Escheator's  control.  For  its  late 
owner  see  N/iiD/10. 

xiii  B/ll 

(40).  Bledlow,  as  an  escheat  of  the  fief  of  the  Count  of  More- 
taine,  is  rightly  in  place  on  the  Escheator's  Roll. 

xiii  B/12 

(40).  See  N/xiiiD/16. 

656.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  234a. 

657.  Lipscomb  :  Hist.  Bucks.,  iv,  299. 

658.  P.R.S.,  viii,  97. 

659.  P.R.S.,  xxxvii,  105.  See  Fairer  :  Honours  and  Knights'  Fees,  i, 
23>  24- 


NOTES  :   xlu  C/2  to  D/W 


249 


xM  C/2 

(40).  According  to  Prevcst,  the  name  Mcrinus  is  used  for  an 
inhabitant  of  Picardy,  and  the  word  seems  to  be  applied  in 
this  sense  by  early  chroniclers.  1  Morin  '  held  as  undertenant 
in  Cambs.  in  1086,  and  the  name  persisted  in  that  county,660 
but  the  parentage  of  Ralf  Morin  has  not  been  traced.  He 
appears  as  custcs  of  the  Archdeaconry  of  Northampton  in 
1 183,  and  as  Deputy  Sheriff  of  Northants.  on  the  death  of 
Thomas  fitz  Bernard  in  1 1 S4  i3G1  evidently  capable,  he  often 
occurs  from  now  as  an  accountant  of  estates  for  the  Crown. 
From  Thomas  fitz  Bernard  he  received  Eythorne  co.  Kent;662 
but  established  his  position  by  marriage  with  a  coheiress, 
Albreda  de  Braose,  thus  coming  into  our  counties  at  Harrold 
co.  Beds.,  Newton  Blossomville  and  Cold  Bray  field,  co.  Bucks. 
He  seems  also  to  have  held  in  Thornborongh  co.  Bucks.663 
(40/xiiiB/l 3) ;  as  this  was  land  of  Manno  the  Breton  in  1086, 
he  probably  secured  it  by  a  suit  recorded  against  Hamo  son 
of  Meinfelin  about  1 1 80. 664  As  an  adherent  of  Count  John, 
his  lands  were  forfeit  111  1104,  as  our  Rolls  show;  but  he  re- 
covered them  on  John's  accession  to  the  throne,  and  obtained 
a  Jury  to  enquire  what  encroachments  had  been  committed 
thereon  during  his  forfeiture;665  they  reported  in  1202.  In 
1 201  he  was  Sheriff  of  Devon,  in  which  county  his  son  held 
towards  1242, 660  and  his  descendants  held  in  Harrold  for  at 
least  two  generations.667 

xiii  C/7 

(40)  .  The  early  descent  of  Wrestlingworth  to  Count  Aubrey 
de  Danmartin  has  already  been  traced668  elsewhere. 

xiii  D/16 

(41)  .  The  entry  of  next  year  (42/xiiiH/i6)  shows  the  manor 
to  be  Westbury.  In  spite  of  the  Hundredal  heading  in 
D.B.,669  we  venture  to  regard  both  entries  of  Westbury  in  the 
Great  Survey  as  referring  to  the  vill  W.N.W.  of  Buckingham 
(then  in  Stodfalde,  now  in  Buckingham  Hundred)  on  the  feudal 
and  geographical  evidence.  The  land  of  the  present  entry 
formed  part  of  the  Ivri  fief,  most  of  which  fell  to  the  family 

660.  Farrar  :  Feudal  Cambs.  ;  and  Cartul.  Ramsey  (R.S.). 

661.  P.R.S.,  xxxii,  72;  xxxiii,  101. 

662.  Bracton  :  Note  Book,  iii,  ^42/3. 

663.  Cur.  Reg.  Rolls  (R.S.),  i,  306. 

664.  P.R.S.,  xxix,  104. 

665.  B.H.R.S.,  i,  163. 

666.  Testa  de  Nevill,  175. 

667.  Charter  Rolls  (R.S.)  i,  422. 

668.  B.H.R.S.j  v,  247;  compare  B.H.R.S.,  Quarto  Mem.  i,  58. 

669.  V.C.H.  Bucks.,  i,  269a  and  note  2. 


250 


NOTES  :    kIVi  D/19,   xni  D/2C 


de  St.  Walery  (N/ixG/41).  But  half  the  vill  belonged  in 
10S6  to  the  Bp.  of  Bayeux,  and  our  entry  4o/xiiiB/i2  is 
probably  part  of  this  escheated  land. 

xiii  D/33 

(41).  Wing,  land  of  the  Bp.  of  Lisieux  in  1086  is  rightly  here 
as  an  escheat. 

xtti  ft/26 

(41).  Willen  has  not  yet  been  identified  in  D.B.  It  was 
granted  to  Roger  de  Salford  (d.  1190}  by  Philip  and  Herbergia 
de  Cahaignes.67u  In  1204  Hugh  de  Salford  his  son  offers  a 
mark  for  an  assise  of  mort  d'ancestor  for  two  hides  in  Wilie:i:I 
and  his  plea  seems  to  have  been  then  successful;  but  in  1206 
Roheise  de  Verdun  offered  3m.  to  have  a  jury  of  Attaint 
against  the  jury  of  twelve  who  had  sworn  falsely  concerning 
7  virgates  of  land  in  her  suit  against  Hugh  de  Salford,672  and 
the  manor  is  found  with  the  Verdun  family  in  1284/6673  and 
later;  the  grounds  of  Roheise's  claim  do  not  appear.  The 
charter  of  Philip  de  Cahaignes  is  notable  for  its  many  local 
witnesses,  and  is  therefore  worth  printing  here  in  full;  they 
fix  its  date  as  late  in  the  reign  of  Henry  II. 

Sciant  tarn  posteri  quam  presentes  quod  ego  Philippus  de  Chaign^ 
et  uxor  mea  Herbergia  concedimus  et  donamus  Rogero  de   Salefort  pro 
seruicio  et  homagio  suo  et  heredibus  suis  dimidium  manerii  nostri  Wile: 
in  hominibus  in  terris  cultis  et  culturis  in  consuetudinibus  in  libertatibu> 
in  censis  et  nominatira  quatuor   solidos  de    viijto    solidis    de  Lecesho 
[?  Letesbo]  tenendum  de  nobis  et  heredibus  nostris  libere  et  quiete  ut 
tenemus   partem   nostram   ex:epto  masuagio   dominico   cum   cultura  ante 
portam  et  excepto  molendino  Set  in  molendino  ci  et  heredibus  suis  mol 
turam  suam  liberam  et  quietam  donamus  sicut  habemus  nostram  domini- 
cam  Et  contra  masuagium  dominicum  ex  nostra  parte  uille  donamus  ill' 
et  heredibus  suis  masuagium  iuxta  curiam  sicut  diuisum  est  per  homin  - 
et  notum  Est  autem  predicta  terra  defendenda  seruicio  facturo  de  doiabus 
hidis    et    una    thotlanda  [?  chotlanda]    His    testibus    carte  Roberto 
Tenerchebrai  et  Radulfo  filio  suo  Willelmo  Passel[e\ve]  Gi:->leberto  filio  eiu 
et  Jordano  Passel[ewe]  Nigello  de  Salefort  Willelmo  alabarbe  Millone  de 
Waltune  Dauid    Malerbe  Nigello  filio  Nicbolai    Rotbcrto    dc  Brochtun' 
Willelmo  filio  eius  Ricardo  filio  Alexandri  Rotberoto  de  Salefort  Engem 
de  Holechote  Galfrido  fratre  suo  Benedicto  Rogero  de  Wilig'  Johanne  filio 
eius  Petro  de  Salefort  Alexandro  filio  Radulfi  Simone  de  Wileg'  Walter0 
filio  Brunman  Willelmo  filio  Merihet  et  tota  parochia  de  Wileg'  et  aliis 
quam  pluribus 

[Equestrian  seal  of  yellow  wax;  rider  in  civil  costume,  with  hawk  on  left 
hand?  Legend:  sigill  -  -  -  il  de  caines  (the  N  reversed)]. 


670.  Archives  of  All  Souls  College,  Oxford  :  Salford  and  Holcote,  no. 
262.  The  charter  is  printed  here  by  the  kind  permission  of  the  Warden  and 
Fellows  of  All  Souls. 

671.  Pipe  Roll  co,  Buck.  Bed. 

672.  Pipe  Roll  52,  Buck.  Bed. 

673.  Feudal  Aids,  i,  So. 


NOTES  :   xiii  H  to  xi'il  L 


251 


*iU  H 

(42).  The  parentage  of  Ralf  Hareng,  who  acts  as  sub-escheator 
in  1 196  has  not  been  traced  with  certainty.  In  that  year  he 
was  appointed  justice  to  hold  a  special  inquisition  at  West- 
minster,674 but  his  activity  belongs  rather  to  the  reign  of 
John;075  and  in  121 5  he  was  Sheriff  of  our  two  SI  1  ires.  By  a 
convention  with  William  de  Westbiri  (apparently  son  of  Walter 
de  Westbiri  and  Armora  de  St.  Walery)  he  acquired  in  1200 
the  manors  of  Westbury  co.  Bucks,  and  Cianfield  co.  Oxon.G7G 
By  1230  he  was  dead,  and  his  son  Ralf  obtained  a  charter 
confirming  to  him  the  park  at  Westbury  which  his  father  had 
made  by  licence  of  William  Marshal  then  *  Rector '  of  the 
King  and  realm.077 

xiii  H 

(42)  .  Some  items  are  headed  Bukingehamscr' ;  others,  which 
follow  immediately,  De  escaetis  hoc  anno  in  Bukingehamscr'. 
They  do  not  overlap,  and  seem  to  be  all  of  one  class  and  year, 
and  to  form  one  series  with  the  similar  entries  of  R.  41.  These 
headings  have  therefore  been  neglected,  and  the  items  treated 
as  parts  of  a  whole.  The  two  accounts  were  perhaps  rendered 
at  different  times  or  by  different  people. 

xiii  H— N 

(43-44).  These  items,  which  have  been  running  in  the  Escheat 
Rolls  for  four  years,  now  appear  towards  the  end  of  the  Sheriff's 
Roll,  although  we  gather  that  an  Escheat  Roll  was  actually 
prepared  (compare  44/xiiiM/4,  44/xiiiN/2). 

xiii  L 

(43)  .  Stephen  de  Turncham,  whose  life  is  well  known,678  after 
his  return  from  the  Third  Crusade  was  employed  by  Richard 
and  John  in  many  capacities.  By  his  marriage  with  Edelina 
(sometimes  confused  with  Eva)  del  Broc,  daughter  of  Ranulf 
del  Broc,  he  acquired  his  father  in  law's  office  of  Keeper  of 
the  King's  Door  (hostiarius  or  usher),  an  office  known  as  the 
serjeanty  of  Cattshill  co.  Surrey  which  was  its  endowment;  he 
was  also  allowed  to  take  up,  on  the  death  of  his  kinsman,  the 
office  of  royal  marshal,  attached  to  the  manor  of  Guildford, 
with  its  very  astonishing  duties.679  But  he  had  a  more  direct 
connection  with  Bucks,  than  that  shown  on  our  Rolls;  his  father 

674.  P.R.S.,  xxivs  217. 

675.  See  Foss  :  Judges  of  England. 

676.  Cur.  Reg.  Rolls  (R.S.),  i,  18^. 

677.  Charter  Rolls  (R.S.),  i,  1x4;  Exc.  Rot.  Fin.,  i,  194. 

678.  D.N.B.,  lvii,  370,  correcting  the  life  in  Foss'  Judges  of  England. 
67c).  Round  •.  King's  Serjeants,  98*104. 

680.  P.R.S.,  xxix,  128. 


I, 


1- 


to 

ed 
•er 
d. 
n- 

25- 
2S- 

no 
ill 
m- 
of 
»11, 
>Ils 
dy 

his 
ice 

;Cd 

tly 
it ; 
>  a 
the 
the 
tan 
md 
Iter 
\tc, 
;ive 

by 
xiii 
Roll 
ally 
the 

43 

eful 
lore 
on 
cs?. 
ous, 


252 


NOTE  x-v  A  and  EPILOGUE 


Robert,  the  founder  of  Combwel!  Abbey  co.  Kent,  held  here 
and  was  amercer]  in  n8o,esa  presumably  on  the  land  in  Little 
Brickhill  held,  by  Stephen  in  UQ8. u"  Stephen  died  in  1215, 
leaving  five  heiresses;  Little  Brickhill  was  still  held  of  his  fee 
in  1242. 682 

xiv  A 

(41).  The  corresponding  1  final  concord  ,G83  has  been  preserved, 
in  which  many  of  the  place-names  are  differently  spelt.  Com- 
pare N/ixE/i  1. 

EPILOGUE. 

While  the  Calendar  was  being  planned,  a  well-kLOwn  authority  to 
whom  the  proposed  method  was  submitted  for  criticism  dryly  remarked 
that  "  at  least  it  will  be  an  interesting  experiment  "  !  As  with  most  pioneer 
work,  it  is  possible  to  see  on  completion  points  in  which  it  can  be  improved. 
Some  such  system  of  numbers  and  letters  as  was  adopted  in  this  case  un- 
doubtedly facilitates  easy  reference  and  a  ready  comparison  cf  the  succes- 
sive entries  of  an  item  year  after  year.  But  it  has  proved  to  be  unneces- 
sarily detailed — a  fault  easily  defended  on  the  ground  that,  if  one  has  no 
idea  cf  what  is  coming,  it  is  safer  to  have  an  elaborate  plan  which  will 
cover  all  possible  developments  than  a  meagre  scheme  incapable  of  expan- 
sion in  the  middle  of  me  work.  Iu  the  belief  that  some  such  form  of 
Calendar  is  the  best  way  in  which  to  unravel  the  tangle  of  a  Pipe  Roll, 
and  in  the  hope  that  other  l  ocal  Societies  may  treat  their  county's  Rolls 
on  more  or  less  similar  lines,  we  venture  to  answer  a  criticism  already 
launched,  and  to  point  out  some  desirable  modifications  of  our  scheme. 

While  in  theory  the  Allowances  to  the  Sheriff  ■  (ii)  form  part  of  his 
Farm  and  might  perhaps  be  included  with  it  under  class  i,  in  practice 
many  of  them  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  essential  payment  or  indeed 
with  any  payment  at  all;  they  are  mere  book-keeping  credits,  frequently 
entirely  unconnected  with  the  County,  while  the  Farm  is  a  cash  debit; 
owing  to  their  occasional  complications,  they  are  most  usefully  kept  as  a 
separate  class. — It  should  be  noted  that  the  position  of  the  Farm  of  the 
Burgh  on  our  Rolls  is  unusual;  in  many  counties  this  is  set  towards  the 
end  of  the  Roll  (xii). — The  census  or  revenues  of  the  Forest  (other  than 
those  arising  from  Forest  Eyres)  form  a  stock  item  in  many  counties  and 
deserve  a  separate  class  number ;  they  are  most  often  found  before  or  after 
Proprestures. — In  class  ii,  the  sections  E  and  F,  theoretically  separate, 
might  perhaps  be  treated  as  one,  since  there  is  no  mention  of  the  decisive 
Writ  in  many  cases. — It  seems  profitable  to  give  each  Eyre  and  Scutage 
a  separate  sectional  letter,  but  no  advantage  whatever  was  gained  by 
assigning  separate  letters  to  Bucks,  and  Beds,  in  classes  vii,  viii,  and  xiii 
(Eyres,  Scutages,  Escheats). — Remitments  are  often  peppered  into  the  Roll 
so  casually  that  it  would  be  safest  to  number  them  under  Class  ix  serially 
as  they  appear,  adding  the  date  of  their  first  entry  or  a  heading  if  the 
scribe  has  vouchsafed  one.  This  course  was  adopted  perforce  in  Rolls  43 
and  44. — Small  letters  to  distinguish  the  *  per  contra  »  pardons  are  unneces- 
sary, as  the  items  are  rarely  numerous.  Small  letters  are,  however,  useful 
for  reference  in  the  long  lists  of  Scutages  '  quit  by  writ.' — Something  more 
distinctive  than  the  appended  n.  could  be  found  to  mark  new  items  on 
their  first  appearance;  the  asterisk  might  be  kept  solely  for  this  purpose. 
The  method  of  showing  Notes  by  N/-/-  makes  the  Index  rather  cumbrous, 
and  the  use  of  italic  type  for  this  might  be  preferable. 


6S1.  P.R.S..  xxiii,  137. 

682.  Testa  de  Netill,  244b. 

683.  P.R.S.,   Xvii,  122. 


INDEX   TO  MAP. 


Addingrove.    A,  4.  ] 
Addington.    A/B,  3. 
Adstock,  A/B,  3. 
Aillesburie  Hund.  B/C,  | 
Akelay.    A,  3. 
Amersham.    C,  5. 
Ampthill.    C,  3. 
Arlesey.    D,  3. 
Ascot.    B,  3. 
Ashendon.    A,  4. 
Aspley  Guise.    C,  3. 
Astoa  Abbots.    B,  4. 
Aston  Bernard.    B,  4. 
Aston  Clinton.    B.  4. 
Aston  Ivinghoe.    C,  4. 
Aston  Sandford.  B,  4. 
Astwick.    D,  2. 
Astwood.    C,  2. 
Aylesbury.    B,  4. 

Barford,  Gt.    D,  2. 
Barford,  Lit.    D,  1. 
Barton  Hartshorne.  A,  3. 
Barton  in  le  Cley.    C,  3. 
Battlesdon.    C,  3. 
Beacharnton.    B,  3. 
Beachendon.    B.  4. 
Beaconsfield.    C,  5. 
Bedford.    C,  2. 
Bedgrove.    B,  4. 
Beeston.    D,  2. 
Bereforde  Hund.  C/D. 
Biddenham.    C,  2. 
Biddlesden.    A,  2/3. 
Bidwell.  Cji 
Biggleswade.    D,  a. 
Bierton.    B,  4. 
Bikleswade  Hund.  D. 
Billington.    C,  3. 
Biscot.    C,  3. 
Bledlow.    B,  s. 
Bletchley.    B,  3. 
Bletsoe.    C,  1. 
Blunham.    D,  2. 
BoarstaD.    A.  4. 
Bolnhurst.    C,  1. 
Bonstowe  Hund.  B. 
Bourton.    A,  3. 
Boveney.    C,  6. 
Bow  Brickhill.    B,  3. 
Bradenbarn.    B,  5. 
Brad  well.    B,  2/3. 


I  BricS&d,  Gt.    B,  3. 
I  BrickMU,  Lit.    B,  3. 
I  Brill.    A,  4. 
j  Bromhain.    C,  2. 
Broom.    D,  2, 
Broughtou  (Aylesb.).  B,  4. 
Brought  m  (Mulsh.).  B,  2. 
Buckelawe  Hund.  C. 
Buckingham.    A,  3. 
Bucklaad.    B,  4. 
Burneham  Hund.  B/C. 
Burnham.    C,  6. 
Burston.    B,  4. 

Caddington.    C,  4. 
Cainhoe.    C/D,  3. 
Caldecote  (Brickh.).  B,  3. 
Caldecote  (Newpt.).  B,  2. 
Caldecote  (Northill).  D,  2. 
Calverton.    B,  3. 
Campton.    D,  3. 
Cardington.    C/D,  2. 
Carlton.    C,  2. 
Castle  Thorp.    B,  2. 
Cattestrop-.    C,  5. 
Caversneld.    A,  3. 
Chaliom.    C,  5. 
Chalgrave.    C,  3. 
Chalton.    C,  3. 
Chalvey.    C,  6. 
Charlton.    D,  2. 
Charndon.    A,  3. 
Chawston.    D,  1/2. 
Chearsley.    A,  4. 
Cheddington.    B/C,  4. 
Cheliington.    C,  1. 
Chenies.    C,  5. 
Chesham.    C,  5. 
Chetwode.    A,  3. 
Chicheley.    B,  2. 
Chicksand.    D,  2. 
Chilton.    A,  4. 
Chipping  Wycombe.  B,  5. 
Clapham.    C,  2. 
Claydons,  the.    A/B,  3/4. 
Clifton.    D,  2. 
Cliftone  Hund.  C/D. 
Clifton  Reynes.    B,  2. 
Clipston.    C,  3. 
Clophill.    C/D,  7. 
Cold  Brayheid.    B/C,  2. 


j  Coleshill.    C,  5. 
Colmworth.    C/D,  1. 
Cople.    C/D,  2. 
Coteslawe  Hund.  B. 
Cianfield.    C,  2. 
Crawley,  Nth.    B/C,  2. 
Crendon.    A,  4. 
Creslow.    B,  4. 
Crofton.    B,  4. 
Cublinton.    B,  3/4. 
Cuddington.    B,  4. 
Cudsand.    D,  2. 

Dadford.    A,  3. 
Datchet.    C,  6. 
Dean.    C,  1. 
Denham.    C,  6. 
Desburue  Hund.  B/C. 
Dilehurst.    B/C,  5. 
Dinton.    B,  4. 
Ditton.    C,  6. 
Doddershall.    A,  4. 
Dorney.    C,  6. 
Dorton.    A,  4. 
Drayton  Beauchamp. 

B/C,  4. 
Drayton  Parslowe.  B,  3. 
Dunstable.    C,  4. 
Dunton  (Beds.).    D,  2. 
Dunton  (Bucks.).    B,  3. 

Easington.    A,  4. 
East  Claydon.    A/B,  3. 
Eastcotts.    C/D,  2. 
Eaton  Bray.    C,  4. 
Eaton  Socon.    D,  1. 
Edgcote.    A,  4. 
Edlesborough.    C,  4. 
Ed  worth.    D,  2. 
Egginton.    C,  3. 
Ellesborough.    B,  4. 
Elstow.    C,  2. 
Elstrop.    B,  4. 
Emberton.    B,  2. 
Erie  Hund.  A/B. 
Essendone  Hund.  A/B. 
Eton.    C,  6. 
Eversholt.    C,  3. 
Everton.    D,  2. 
Eythrope.    B,  4. 
Eyvvorth.    1),  2. 


254 


INDBX  TO  MAP 


Farndish.    C,  i. 

Farnham.    C,  6. 
Fawley.    B,  6. 
Felmersham.    C,  I. 
Fenny  Stratford.    B,  3. 
Filgrave.    B,  2. 
Fingest.    B,  5. 
Fleet  Marston.    B,  4. 
Flitte  Hund.  C/D. 
Flitton.    C,  3. 
Flitwick.    C,  3. 
Ford.    D,  1. 
Foscott.    A,  3. 
Fulraer.    C,  0. 

Gawcott.    A,  3. 
Gayhurst.    B,  2. 
Gladley.    B/C,  3. 
Goldington.    C,  2. 
Granborough.    B,  3. 
Gravenhurst.    C/D,  3. 
Grendon  Underwood.  A, 
4- 

Grove.    B/C,  3/4. 

Haddenham.    A/B,  4. 
Halton.    B,  4. 
Hambleden.    B,  6. 
Hampden.    B,  5. 
Hanslope.    B,  2. 
Hardmead.    C,  2. 
Hardwick  (Bucks.).  B,  4. 
Hare.    C,  3. 
Harlingdon.    C,  3. 
Harrold.    C,  1. 
Harrowden.    C/D,  2. 
Hartwell.  B/4. 
Hatley.    D,  2. 
Hawnes.    C,  2. 
Haw  ridge.    C,  4. 
Haversham.    B,  2. 
Heath  and  Reach.    C,  3. 
Hedgerley.    C,  6. 
Hedsor.    B,  6. 
Henlow.    D,  3. 
High  Wycombe.    B,  5. 
Higham  Gobion.  C/D,  3. 
Hillesdon.    A,  3. 
H  in  wick.    C,  1. 
Hitcham.    C,  C. 
Hockhffe.    C,  3. 
Hoggeston.    B,  3. 
Hogshaw.    A/B,  3/4. 
Holcote.    C,  3. 
Hollingdon.    B,  3. 
Holme.    D,  2. 
Holmer.    B,  5. 
Holwell.    D,  7. 
Hco  (Luton).  ~D,  4. 
Horsendon.    B.  5. 


Horton.    C,  6. 

Horwood.    B,  3. 
Ho  lghton  Conquest.  C,  2. 
Houghton  Regis.    C,  3. 
Hughenden.    B,  5. 
Hulcot  (Bucks.).    B,  4. 
Husborne  Crawley.    C,  3. 
Hyde.    D,  4. 

Ibstone.    B,  5. 
Ickeshaile  Hund.  A/B. 
Ickford.    A,  4. 
llmer.    B,  4. 
Isenhamsted.    C  5. 
Iver.    C,  6. 
Ivinghoe.    C,  4. 

Kempston.    C,  2. 
Keysoe.    C.  1. 
Kingseye.    A/B,  4. 
Kingshill.    B,  5. 
Kingswood.    A,  4. 
Kimble.    B,  4. 
Kinwick.    D,  2. 
Knotting.    C,  1. 

Lamport.    A,  3. 
Lainue  Hund.  A/B. 
Langford.    D,  2. 
Langley.    C,  6. 
Lathbury.    B,  2. 
Lavendon.    B/C,  2. 
Lea  grave.    C,  3. 
Leckhamstead.    A,  3. 
Ledburn.    B,  4. 
<  Lega.'    C,  1. 
Lee.    B,  5. 

Leighton  Buzzard.    C,  3. 
Lenborough.    A,  3. 
Lidlington.    C,  3. 
Lillingstone  Darell.  A,  2. 
Limbury.    C,  3. 
Linford.    B,  2. 
Linslade.    B,  3. 
Liscombe.    B,  3. 
Litilecote.    B,  3. 
Long  Crendon.    A,  4. 
Loughton.    B,  3. 
Lude.    B/C,  5. 
Ludger shall.    A,  4. 
Luiheld.    A,  2. 
Luton.    C,  4. 

Maids  Moreton.    A,  3. 
Mannesheved  Hund.  .C. 
Marlow.    B,  6. 
Marsh  Gibbon.    A,  3/4. 
Marston,  Fleet.    B,  4. 
Marston  Moretaine.  C,  2. 
Marston,  North.    B.  3. 
Marsv»oith.    B/C,  4. 


Maulden.    C,  3. 
Medmenham.    B,  6. 
Melchbourne.    C,  1. 
Mentmore.    B,  4. 
Meppershall.    D,  3. 
Middle  Claydon.    A,  3 
Millbrook.    C,  2/3. 
Millo.    D,  2. 
Milton  Brian.    C,  3. 
Milton  Krnest.    C,  1. 
Milton  Keynes.    B,  3. 
Missenden,  Gt.    B,  5. 
Missenden,  Lit.  B/C, 
Moggerhanger.    D,  2. 
Molesho  Hund.  B/C. 
Moulshoe.    B,  2. 
Muresle  Hund.  B. 
Mursley.    B,  3. 

Nash.    B,  3. 

Newport  Pagnell.    B,  2 

Newton  Blcssomville. 

B/C,  2. 
Newton  Longeville.  B, 
North  Crawley.  B/C, 
North  Marston.    B,  3- 
Northill.    D,  2. 
Notley.    A,  4. 

Oakley  (Beds.).    -C,  2. 
Oakley  (Bucks.).    A,  4 
Odell  (Wahull).    C,  1. 
Olney.    B,  2. 
Oving.    B,  3/4. 

Padbury.    A,  3. 
Pavenham.    C,  2. 
Pegsdon.    D,  3. 
Penn.    B/C,  5. 
Pertenhall.    C,  1. 
Petsoe.    B/C,  2. 
Pictshill.    C,  2. 
Pitchcott.    B,  4. 
Pitstone.    C,  4. 
Podinton.    C,  1. 
Polehanger.    D,  3. 
Pollicot.    A,  4. 
Potsgrove.    C,  3. 
Potton.    D,  2. 
Poundon.    A,  3. 
Preston  Bissett.    A,  3 
Priestley.    C,  3. 
Pulloxhill.    C,  3. 
Putnoe.    C,  2. 

Quainton.  A/B,  4. 
Quarrendon.    B,  4. 

Radclive.  A,  3. 
Radnage.    B,  5. 


INDEX  TO  MAP 


255 


Kadwell.    C,  i. 
Ravensden.    C,  2. 
Ravenstone.    B,  2. 
Reach.    C,  3. 
Rcdburnestoche  Hucd.  C. 
Rcnhold.    C,  2. 
Ridgmont.    C,  3. 
Risborough.    B,  5. 
Riseberge  Hund.  B. 
Riseley.    C,  1. 
Rowsham.    B,  4. 
Roulowe  Hund.  A/B. 
Roxton.    D,  2. 


Salford.    C,  2. 
Sandy.    D,  2. 
Saunderton.    B,  5. 
Segelowe  Hund.  B. 
Segenho.    C,  3. 
Sewell.    C,  3. 
Shabbington.    A,  4. 
Sbalston.    A,  3. 
Sharnbrook.    C,  1. 
Shefford.    D,  3. 
Shelton  (Redbnst.)    C,  2. 
Shelton  (Stodden).    C,  1. 
Shenley.    B,  3. 
Sherington.    B,  2. 
Shillington.    D,  3. 
Shipton  Lee.    A,  4. 
Silsoe.    C,  3. 
Simpson.    B,  3. 
Singleborough.    B,  3. 
Slapton.    C,  4. 
Slough.    C,  6. 
Soulbury.    B,  3. 
Souldrop.    C,  1. 
Southill.    D,  2. 
Stagsden.    C,  2. 
Stanbridge.    C,  3. 
Stanbrige  Hund.  C. 
Stanes  Hund.  A/B. 
Stanford.    D,  2. 
Stanton  Barry.    B,  2. 
Staughton,  Lit.    C/D,  1. 
Steeple  Claydon.    A,  3. 
Steppingley.    C,  3. 
Stevinton.    C,  2. 
Stewkley.    B,  3. 


Stodene  Hund.  C. 
Stodfalde  Hund.  A. 
Stoke  Goldington.    B,  2. 
Stoke  Hammond.    B,  3. 
Stoke  Mandeville.    B,  4. 
Stoke  Pogis.    C,  6. 
Stoke  Hund.  C. 
Stone.    B,  4. 
Stopsley.    C/D,  3. 
Stotfold.    Dj  3. 
Stowe.    A,  3. 
Stratton.    D,  2. 
Streatley.    C,  3. 
Studham.    C,  4. 
Sundon.    C,  3. 
Sutton.    D,  2. 
Swanbourne.    B,  3. 
Swineshead.    C,  1. 

Taplow.    B,  6. 
Tempsford.    D,  2. 
Tetchwick.    A,  4. 
Thornborough.    A/B,  3. 
Thorncot.    D,  2. 
Thornton.    A/B,  3. 
Thurleigh.    C,  1. 
Tillbrook.    C,  1. 
Tillsworth.    C,  3. 
Tingewick.    A,  3. 
Tingrith.    C,  3. 
Toddington.    C,  3. 
Totternhoe.    C,  4. 
Tower sey.    A/B,  5. 
Turvey.    C,  2. 
Turville.    B,  5. 
Turweston.    A,  3. 
Twyford.    A,  3. 
Tyringham.    B,  2. 

Upton  (Stanes  Hund). 

B,  4. 

Upton  (Stoke  Hund.). 

C,  6. 

Waddesdon.    A/B,  4. 
Waddon.    C,  4. 
Waldridge.    B,  4. 
Walton.    B,  3. 
Wardon.    D,  2. 


Warrington.    B,  2. 
Water  Eaton.    B,  3. 
Water  Stratford.    A,  3. 
Wavendon.    B/C,  3. 
Weedon.    B,  4. 
Wendover.    B,  4. 
Weneslai  Hund.  D. 
Westbury.    A,  3. 
Westcott  (Bucks.).  A/B,  4. 
Westcotts  (Beds.).    C,  2. 
Westoning.    C,  3. 
Weston  Turville.    B,  4. 
Weston  Underwood.  B,  2. 
West  Wycombe.    B,  5. 
Wexham.    C,  6. 
Whaddon.    B,  3. 
WTnpsnade.    C,  4. 
Whitchurch.    B,  4. 
Wichstanestre  Hund. 

C/D. 
Wilden.    C,  2/3. 
Wilga  Hund.  C. 
Willen.    B,  2. 
Wellington.    C/D,  2. 
Wilshamstead.    C,  2. 
Winchendon.    A/B,  4. 
Wing.    B,  3/4. 
Wingrave.    B,  4. 
Winslow.    B,  3. 
Woburn  (Beds.).    C,  3. 
Wolverton.    B,  2. 
Wooburn  (Bucks.).    B,  6. 
Woodham.    A,  4. 
Woolstone,  Lit.    B,  2. 
Woolstone,  Gt.    B,  2/3. 
Wootton  (Beds.).    C,  2. 
Wootton  Underwood.  A, 

4- 

Worminghall.    A,  4. 
Wormstone.    B,  4. 
Wotesdone  Hund.  A/B. 
Woughton.    B,  3. 
Wraysbury.    C,  6. 
Wrestlingworth.    D,  2. 
WroxhiU.    C,  2. 
Wyboston.    D,  1. 
Wycombe.    B,  5. 
Wyminton.    C,  1. 

Yielden.    C,  1. 


256 


APPENDIX. 
MAP  OF  THE  SHIRES  AND  HUNDREDS. 

The  Map  has  been  drawn  to  show  diagrammatically  the 
probable  distribution  of  the  vills  in  the  various  Hundreds  of 
Beds,  and  Bucks,  during-  the  reign  of  Richard  I ;  in  order 
to  enable  the  reader  to  rind  their  position,  an  index  has  been 
supplied  to  the  map.  The  County  boundaries  are  shown  by 
a  thick  black  line;  the  Hundred  boundaries  by  conventional 
signs  of  line  dot  and  dash.  These  boundaries  are  necessarily 
approximations,  as  being  based  on  the  present  parish  boun- 
daries. The  Manors  of  Ancient  Demesne  appear  to  have 
been  extra-hundredal  at  this  period ;  they  are  shown  as  islands 
in  the  Hundred,  and  are  marked  A.D.;  the  two  royal  Burghs, 
also  extra-hundredal,  are  marked  R.B.  To  the  modern 
parishes  and  old  manors  on  our  Rolls,  some,  not  mentioned  on 
our  Rolls,  have  been  added,  in  order  to  increase  the  usefulness 
of  the  map. 

The  Hundred  is  believed  to  be  the  oldest  unit  of  ad- 
ministration in  England.  With  the  centralisation  of  govern- 
ment, the  system  became  obsolescent  about  the  middle  of  the 
xixth  century,  and  it  is  to  be  regretted  that  the  old  areas  were 
not  revived  for  the  Sanitary  and  Rural  Districts  established 
under  a  later  theory  of  decentralisation.  The  organisation  of 
the  two  Shires  under  Hundreds  is  evidently  dissimilar. 

In  Bucks.,  though  some  of  the  eighteen  Hundreds  are 
very  small,  none  is  styled  a  Half  Hundred.  In  the  xijth  and 
xiijth  centuries  each  Hundred  remained  distinct,  but  in  the 
Feudal  Aid  Rolls  of  1302/3  Cotteslowe  and  Mursley  Hundreds 
are  united  in  one  return,  and  all  the  eighteen  are  arranged  in 
the  groups  of  three  under  which  they  are  actually  set  out  in 
the  Feudal  Aid  Rolls  of  1 3 16.  At  the  disappearance  of  the 
Hundred  system,  the  only  recognised  Hundreds084  were  those 
shown  in  the  third  column  of  the  following  table,  the  last 
three  (Desborough,  Burnham,  and  Stoke)  still  retaining  their 

6S4.  J.  and  C.  Walker,  British  Atlas,  1S60. 


THE  HUNDREDS 


257 


separate  identity,  and  tog-ether  forming  the  three  Chiltern 
Hundreds  of  which  the  Steward  is  a  Royal  officer,  and  is 
therefore  unable  to  sit  in  Parliament. 

In  Beds,  three  smaller  areas  are  termed  Half  Hundreds, 
shown  in  the  table  by  (■£).  There  is  reason  to  believe  that  each 
Hundred  was  originally  assessed  for  taxation  at  ioo  hides  of 
land,  and  each  Half  Hundred  at  50  hides.683  In  this  shire 
there  was  no  later  grouping-  into  threes  as  in  Bucks.,  but  each 
Half  Hundred  was  absorbed  eventually  into  an  adjacent  full 
Hundred;  by  1284/6  Wensley  had  disappeared;  Stanbridge 
and  Buckley,  though  mentioned  by  name,  are  returned  respec- 
tively under  Manshead  and  Biggleswade  Hundreds ;  and  in 
the  Rolls  of  1346  is  no  mention  of  the  Half  Hundreds. 

Both  Shires  show  a  similar  fragmentation  of  some  Hun- 
dreds. In  Bucks.,  Beachampton  was  separated  from  the  rest 
of  Roulowe,  Oving  from  the  remainder  of  Essendone;  Ickes- 
haile  is  cut  into  two  portions;  Drayton  Beauchamp  and  Haw- 
ridge  are  separated  from  the  rest  of  Erie  Hundred  by  an  in- 
trusive tongue  of  Herts.  In  Beds.,  Stodden,  Flitte,  Stanbridge, 
and  Biggleswade  Hundreds  are  in  two  portions;  and  Buckley 
Half  Hundred  in  three.  The  origin  of  these  fragmentations 
is  probably  to  be  sought  in  their  ownership  far  back  in  Saxon 
time. 

In  both  Bucks,  and  Beds,  occur  '  forinsec  '  islands  of 
another  county: — Polehanger,  half  Meppershall,  and  Coleshill 
to  Herts.,  Swiheshead  to  Hunts.;  Westoning  which  was  '  in  ' 
Herts,  at  the  date  of  D.B.  is  treated  as  in  Beds,  by  our  Pipe 
Rolls.  On  the  other  hand  Caversfield  (now  in  Oxon.)  was 
still  1  in  '  the  Hundred  of  Roulowe  at  the  time  of  our  Rolls,, 
and  both  shires  had  more  of  these  ' extrmsec  '  outliers  at 
the  date  of  Domesday  Book.  In  both  Bucks,  and  Beds,  the 
Ancient  Demesne  of  the  Crown  and  the  Burgh  seem  to  stand 
outside  the  organisation  of  the  Hundreds  till  the  xivth  century. 


685.  B.H.R.S.,  Quarto  Mem.  i,  57,  and  Table  II.    This  relation  has 

not  yet  been  worked  out  (or  Bucks. 


THtf  HUNDREDS 


THE  HUNDREDS  OF  BUCKINGHAMSHIRE. 


xijth  century. 
Hundreds  of 

Segelowe 
Bonstowe 
Molesho 

Stodfalde 

Roulowe 

Lamue 

Muresle 

Coteslawe 

Erie 

Wotesdone 
Essendone 
Ickeshaile 

Stanes 

Aillesburie 

Riseberge 

Desburue 

Burneham 

Stoke 


1316.    The  Three 
Hundreds  of 


Neuport 

Bu.kirgb.am 

Coteslowe 

Asslendone 

Aylesbury 

Cyltre 


i860 
Hundreds  of 


Newport 
Buckingham 
Cotteslow 
Ashendon 

Aylesbury 

Desborough 

Burnham 

Stoke. 


THE  HUNDREDS  OF  BEDFORDSHIRE. 


xijth  century 
Stodene 

Buckelawe  (£)  ) 
Wilga  j 

Bereforde 

Wichstanestre 

Bikeleswade  < 
Weneslai  (£)  I 

Redburnestoche 

Cliftone 

Flitte 

Mannesheued  I 
Stanbrige  (£)  J 


1346. 

Stoddene 
Wylye 

Bereforde 
Wyxstonestie 

Bykeleswade 

Redburghstoke 

Cliflone 

Flytte 

Mannesheuede 


i860, 

S  tod  den 

Willey 

Barford 
Wixamtree 

Biggleswade 

Redburnstoke 

Clifton 

Flitt 

Manshead 


«*  260 


INDEX, 

1.  References  to  the  Introduction  are  given  by  para- 
graphs (§). 

2.  References  to  the  Calendar  are  given  by 

arabic  Roll  no.  J  reman  Class  no.  and  Section  letter  /  arabic  Item  no. 
for  example—  41  /xiiiE/4. 

But  for  conciseness'  sake 

(a)  consecutive    numbers    are    linked    by    a   hyphen;  thus 

35-44/iiD/9  gives  the  same  reference  to  ten  consecutive 
Rolls;  again  35 /iiO / 5-7  shows  three  consecutive  items  on 
the  same  Roll : 

(b)  several  entries  on  the  same  Roll  are  enclosed  in  parentheses 
under  the  Roll  number;  thus  42(viiiD/iS,  viiiE/15),  shows 
the  position  of  two  separate  entries  of  the  same  subject 
on  the  same  Roll. 

3.  References  to  Notes  are  made  by  substituting  N  for 
the  Roll  number;  thus  N/viiiD/13.  If  more  than  one  Note 
deals  with  the  same  subject,  the  references  are  enclosed  in 
parentheses;  thus,  N(iiD/i;  viiO/57). 

Manors  and  Vills  in  Bucks,  and  Beds,  are  printed  in 
small  capitals. 

Patronymics  are  to  be  found  under  '  Son  of.* 


Aaron,  see  Lincoln. 
Abingdon  Abbey, -co.  Berks., 

N(viiM/5;  ixA/2). 
Achelai,  see  Oakley. 
Acton,  co.  Middx.,  N/ixH/i. 
Addingrove,    K(ixA/2oj    ixH/5  in 

pedigree). 
Addington,  N/ixG/9. 
Adstock     (Hadestoche,  Hadestoke), 

N/ixD/i. 
Ascer  de,  39-41 /viiM/20. 
„    Walt,    propositus  de, 

39-4i/viiM/2i. 
Adulvesberga,  see  EcJesborough. 
Advocate,  oiike  or,  N/iiD/12. 


iEdulfesberga,  see  Edlesborough. 
^rnisius  prepositus,  35-44/11^/9. 
Aids  (auxilia),  §  12. 
Aiencurt,    Oliver    de,  4o/viiiC/i8; 

42/viiiD/i9 ;  42/VU1E/15; 

N/viiiC/i8z. 

Ailesberia,  see  Aylesbury. 
Aillesbiri,  see  Aylesbury. 
Ailward,  39/viiN/i4. 
Airel,  de,  see  Darel. 
Akelay,  see  Oakley. 
Alard,  Master,  42/ixG/2i. 
Albemarle,  Earl  of,  see  Aumale,  Count 
of. 


INDEX 


261 


Alberville,    Ranulf    de,  4o/viiiC/i8; 

N/viiiC/iSr. 
Albini  (Albeneio)  of  Cainhoe. 
„    Gundred,     sis.     of     Nigel  de, 

N/iiD/n. 
„    Robt.  de;  scutage,  36-44/viiiA/i ; 
40/viiiC/iS;  42/viiiE/n; 
N/viiiA/i. 
Robt.    s.    of    Robt.    de;  relief, 
37-44/ixB/6. 
Albini  Brito. 

„  Will,  de,  40/viiiC/iSm  ;  44/1x11/19; 

N/ij  N(viiiC/i8m;  ixH/19). 
Albini  of  Arundel. 
„    Will.      de     (£.     of  Arundel), 
4o/viiiC/i8m ;  N/viiiC/i8m, 
180. 

Allowances  to  the  Sheriff,  §  7,  §  15. 
Almodesham,  see  Araersham. 
Alms,  royal,  §  7. 

Alncto,  Eust.  de,  4o/xiiiB/5;  N/v/16. 
Alnou,  Hugh  de,  4i-44/ixE/i2. 
Alton,  co.   Staffs.,  N/ixD/6. 
Alueva,  35-39/viiA/ 7  ;  N/viiA/7. 
Alverso,  see  Auvers. 
Amersham  (Almodesham),  40/xiiiA/i  ; 

N/ixE/4. 
Anchoress  of  Wilden,  4i/xiiiE/4. 
Andeg',  see  Anjou. 
Andwell  Priory,  co.  Hants.,  N/v/15. 
Anglicus,  Phil.,  35-36/71/7. 
Anjou  (Andeg [a vensis ]) . 

j,    Regin.  of,  42/1x0/36. 

„    WiD.  of,  44/viiP/4. 
Ansgot,  see  Wycombe. 
Antigraph,  §  3. 

Approvers,  conveyance  of,  39/iiF/5; 

N/iiF/5. 
Archis,  Will,  de,  42/ixG/2q. 
Ardenn',  Ralf  de,  44/xiiiN/7. 
Arundel,  Will.,  tests  N/iiD/x^ 
Ascott  (Estcota,  Escote). 

Gundwin  de,  35-43/viiB/n. 
Ashendon,  N/ixG/i. 
Ashendon  Hundred  (Essendon). 

amerced,  37/viiL/2. 
Aspley  Guise,  N-(viiiA/aa;  ixG/41). 
Aston     Bernard     or  Mullins, 

N(viii/C/i8u  ;  ixA/13). 
Aston  Clinton  (Eston)  39-4o/ixC/4; 

4i/xiiiD/i7-iS;  4i/xiiiG/3; 
42/xiiiH/i7;  43/xiiiK/i7; 
44/xiiiM/i7;  N/ixC/4. 
Hermit     of,  4^/xiiiH/i7; 
43/xiiiK/i7. 
J}    serjeanty  of,  N.ixC/4. 
„    tallaged;  43/viiiF/3. 
Aston  Sandford.  N/viiiE/15111. 
Astwood,  N/viiiB/12. 
Auberville,  see  Alberville. 


Aubrey,  Count,  see  Danmartin. 

,,    Earl,  see  Vere. 
Aumale  (Albemarle),  see  also  Bethune, 
Baldwin  de. 
Counts  of,  4o/viiiC/x8j 

42/viiiD/ig;  N/viiiC/i8f. 
„    Haweise   dau.    of    Will.    Ct.  of, 
N/iiD/12. 
Auvers  de   (dc  Alverso,   de  Anuers, 
Danvers). 
Ruelent  de,  heir  of,  42/ixII/i; 
wid.  of  44/ixII/q;  his  family 
and  name,  N/ixH/i. 
Avenel,  Eliz.  dau.  of  Will.,  N/ixD/i. 
Aylesbury      (Ailesberia,  Aillesbiri), 
35-44/v/i2-i3  ;  42-44/iiD/i6. 
„    amerced,    35-40^/5;  37/V11L/4; 
37-4o/viiL/i3;  39/viiN/8. 
David  de,  4o/xiiiB/9;  41/ixE/i; 
N/xiiiB/9. 
„    grant  in,  35-44/UD/9,  N(iiD/9; 
v/12). 

„    repairs  to  gaol  at,   36-37/iiE /4 ; 

39/iiE/4;  42-43/UE/4. 
„    tallaged,  43/ViiiF/i  5  44/viiiG/i. 


Babbegrave,  Will,  de,  35-36/viiG/S. 
Badgmore,  co.  Oxon.,  N/ixH/i. 
Badinton,  loc.  incert.,  N/ixG/9. 
Bai,  Aluric,  42-44/viiO/34. 
Baioc',  see  Bay  use. 
Baker,  see  pistor. 

Balance  of  Sheriff's  Farm,  35-44/iv. 
Baldwin,  4 1  /ii K /3. 

Bampton   (co.    Devon),    Honour  aDd 

family  of,  N/viiiB/12. 
Barat,  Regin.,  39-40/viiN/i. 
Barbe,  Will,  a  la,  attests  N/xiiiD/20. 
Bardolf,  Hugh,    36/ixA/i9b;  attests, 

N/ixD/12. 
dau.  of  Thos.,  N/ixE/16. 
Barevile,  Walt,  de,  attests,  N/v/15. 
Barford,  Great,  36-4o/ixA/9. 
Barnack,  co.   Northants.,  N/viiiB/12. 
Barton  Hartshorne,  ?  44/viiP/9. 
Barton      in      le      Cley  (Berton), 

35-40/VUG/22  ;  N/viiG/22. 
Barway,  co.  Cambs.,  N/ixA/2. 
Baseville     (Bascheville),     Ric.  de, 

4o(xiiiA/i;  xiiiB/2-3; 

xiiiU/S);  4i(xiiiD/2-3; 

riiiD/8);  41-43/ixEV, 

N(v/7a  ;  family,  N/ixE/4). 
Baslow,  co.  Derby,  N/ixD/i. 
Basset,     Eustachia,  N(viiiC/iSh; 

ixD/6). 

Gilbt.,  39-40/iiD/n  ;  4o/viiiC/i8j 
N(viiiC/iSh;  ixA/7). 


262 


INDEX 


Basset. 

Regin.  and  w.  Agnes,  N/viiiE/6. 
„    serjeanty,  N/v/6. 
„    Sim.,  40-44/ixD/i  •  40-42/XXD/2 ; 
N/ixD/i. 

„    Thos.,    41/ixE'io;  42(viiiD/xQ, 

viiiE/15);  N/viiiD/19). 
„    Turstan,  42/ixG/34. 
„  Isabel  dau.  of,  N/viiiB/2 

„    Will.,  43-44/1XH/5  :  N/ixH/5. 
Will.,  of  Draiton,  30-44/viiN/io ; 
N/viiN/10. 
Battlesden,  N/viiM/5. 
Bay  use     (Baioe[ensis]),     Will.  de, 

42-43/viiO/78. 
B each amptoNj  N/viiiB/6. 
Beachendon,  N/ixG/i  and  q. 
Beaconsfield  (Bekenesfeld),  Jobr.  de, 

35-4o/viiB/4. 
Beauchamp  (Bello  Campo,  Belchatcp). 
„    Elias  de,  43/viiiF/S  ;  N(viiiB/3 

pedigree;  viiiE/S). 
„    family     and      Bedford  Castle, 
N/ixA/6. 

„    Hugh      de      (IV      of  Eaton), 
36/viiiB/n  ;  42(viiiD/i9, 
viiiE/14);  42-44(ixF/5, 
ixG/39);  N/viiiB/11. 

„    Miles    de     (II     of  Eaton), 
36/viiiB/io;  38/viiiA/2; 
N(viiiA/2a;  viiiB/10;  ixA/i). 

„    Philippa,     de,  44/ixA/i7; 
N/ixA/16-17. 

„    Ralf  and  Matilda  de,  N/viiiE/8. 

»    --;  37/ixB/3. 

„    Rich,   de,   N/ixA/i  pedigree. 

„  Simon  de  (II  of  Bedford), 
44(xiiiM/i,  xiiiN/9  and  11); 
N/i. 

„     „    for  Bedford  Castle,  36/1XA/6. 
„    for     exemption,  4o/ixD/4, 

•43/1XH/3. 
„    for     lands     at  Bedford, 
40-43/1XD/7. 
„     „    for    shrievalty,     40-41 /ixD/8, 

41/ixE/io. 
„  fortifies  castle,  37/ixA/i7. 

„     „    scutage,      36-42/ viii  A/2 ; 

40-44/viiiC/i  ;      4i-42/ixE/5  ; 
42(viiiD/i6,  viiiE/15). 
„     „    sheriff     (1194-1197)     40-43/i  > 

42/xiv/C. 
Bee  Hellouin  Abbey,  dept.  Eure. 

pardon  to,  35/viiF/3d. 
Bedford  (Bedeford). 
,,    allowance  for  farm  36-44/iiD/i3. 
„    castle,  36/i^A/6;  X/ixA/6. 
combustions,  42/xivC. 
default  at  Exchequer,  N/iii. 
„    farm  of  the  burgh,  36-44/iii ;  §  9. 


I  Bedford. 

J}    fortification  of  castle,  tf/ixA/ij. 
„    gaol,      repairs     to,  35/iiE/3; 
37/U12/3 ;  38/iiE/3;  4i/iiE/3. 
Isaac,  a  Jew  of,  38-44/xC/i. 
u    Isaac    s.    of    Bonenfant  de, 

41-  44/ixE/i2. 

purchase  of  (arm,   36-37/1.XA/17 ; 
N/iii. 

,.    Sele    and    Kings.mead  in, 
40-4i/ixD/7;  N/ixD/7. 
„    Ursell  a  Jew  of,  39/UE/6;  N/x. 
I  Bedfordshire,  deforested, 
36-3S/ixA/i6. 
Beeston,  N/viiiC/i8y. 
Belet,    Mich.,    pleas  before, 

35-43/viiF-G;  39-44/viiM-N. 
Bdewe     (Bella     Aqua),     Geoff.  de, 

42-  44/ixF/6;  his  family, 
N/ixF/6. 

Beliden,  Ric.,  39-41/viiN/i  1. 
Bella  Aqua,  see  Belewe. 
Bello    Campo,    Belchamp,    see  Beau- 
champ. 

Belmes,  Will,  de,  4o/viiiC/i8. 
Belmunt,  -  -  -  de,  44/VHP/21. 
Benedict,  N/xiiiD/20. 
Benehala,  Ric.  de,  35-4o/viiD/7. 
Berchelay,  see  Berkeley. 
Bereford,  see  Barford. 
Bereville,  family,  N/viiiB/7. 
Berkamstead,  Gt.  (Berchamsteda),  co. 

Herts. 
„    court  of,  35-36/vi/7. 
Berkeley      (Berchelay),      Rog.  de, 

42/viiiE/i5;  N/viiiB/12 

pedigree. 

Bernard,  Hen.,  42/ixG/26;  N/ixF/2. 
Bernwood     Forest  (Bernewude), 

43/xiiiK/26;  N/viiP/8. 
Berton,  see  Barton. 
Bessels  Leigh,  co.  Oxon.,  N/viiM/5. 
Bethune  (Bettona,  Betun),  family  of, 

N/iiD/12. 
Advocate      of,      36/viiiB^r4e ; 

4o/viiiC/i3;       40/xiiiB/i  ; 

42-44/viiiD/io ;     42/xiiiH/i  ; 

42/xiiiK/i  ;        44/xiiiM/i  ; 

N(iiD/i2;  viiiB/i4e; 

viiiC/13;  xiiiB/i). 
„    Baldwin    de,    see   also  Aumale, 

Count  of. 
„     „    grant       to,       36-44/iiD/ 12 ; 

N/iiD,  N/iiD/12. 
„  scutage,  4o/viiiC/i8. 

Bicester        Priory,       co.  Oxon., 

lsT/viiiC/i8h. 
Bicleswade.  Bichleswade,  see  Biggles- 
wade. 

Biddenham,  N(viiiA/2cj  viiiC/i8y). 


INDEX 


263 


Biddlesden  (Bittlesden),  44/viiP/i8. 
Bidun      (Bidon),     Agnes     wid.  of 

Halenad  de,  N/viiiB/i^b. 
,,    Amabel  de,  N/viiiA/2b. 

family  and  pedigree,  N/ixA/i. 
,,    John    de,    his    fief,  3o(viiiB/io, 

ixA/i);      40-44/viiiC/n  ; 

42-44(viiiD;  8,  viiiE/5, 

ixG/44);  42/ixG/42; 

N(viiiB/u;  viiiB/2  pedigree; 

viiiB/i4f). 
Biggleswade     (Bichleswade,  Bicles- 

wade,  Bikeleswade,  Bikes- 
wade,  and  by  confusion  Bikes- 

lawe  and  Binkelawa). 
,,    Hundred  amerced,  35-36/viiA/i  ; 

35-4o/viiF/5;  42-4^4/ viiO/26. 
„    Laur.  de,  35"37/vliF/ IO- 
Bikeslawe,  see  Biggleswade. 
Biland,  Herbt.  de,  WiiF/s. 

valtrarius,       ^5/iiC/2;      37/iii ; 

N/iiC/2. 
Billendon,  see  Billington. 
Billington    (Billendon),    Reiner  de, 

42/viiO/8g. 
Binkelawe,     see     Biggleswade,  and 

N/viiF/5. 
Birling,  co.  Kent,  N/viiiC/i8q. 
Bix,  Pet.  de,  42-43/ ixG/31;. 
Blackthorn    (Blaketorn),    co.  Oxon., 

35"36/viiC/6. 
Bladelawe,  see  Bledlow. 
Blaketorn,  see  Blackthorn. 
Blanco  payments,  §  8,  N/oi. 
Bledlow      (Bledelawa,  Bladelawa) 

40/xiiiB/n;  4i(xiiiD/n, 
xiiiD/15,  xiiiF/5)  ;  42/iiE/n  ; 

tallaged,  43-44/ viiiF/10 ; 

N(iiE/n  ;  xiiiB/u). 
Bletchley,  N/viiiC/iSx. 
Bludeie    (loc.     incert.),  37-44/XA/4; 
N/xA/4. 

Blundell  (Blundus),  see  also  Blundus. 
Will.,     4o/xiiiB/4;  4i/xiiiD/4; 
42/xiiiH/4;  43/xiiiK/4; 
44/xiiiM/4. 
Blundus,  see  also  Blundell. 
„    Payn,  35-40/viiB/io. 
„    Peter,  a  Jew,  N/x. 
„    Robt.,  37-40/xB/:,  42-44/ viiO/gi. 
Robt.   of   Wycombe,  42/viiO/33- 
Walt.,  42-44/viiO/si,  52. 
„    Will.,  35/V/7,  N/v/7b. 
Boarstall,  N(v/n  ;  viiP/8). 
Bocland  (Bochland),  family  and  pedi- 
gree, N/ix'A/2. 
„    Will,  de,  36-32/ixA/2. 
,,     ,,    sher.  Cornwall  41/V/23. 


Boddington,  co.  Nortbants., 

N/viiiB/12. 
Bolebec  (Bolebeche)  of  Whitchurch. 

Constance  de,  N/viiiE/8. 
,,    Egelina  de,  N/viiiC/iSh. 
,,    fee  of,  43/xiiiK/23;  44/xiiiM/23. 
,,    Isabel  de,  N(viiiB/3;  viiiE/8). 
„    pedigree,  N/viiiB/3. 
,,    Walt,  de,  3o/viiiB/3J  39/ixC/3. 
,,     .,    fee  of,  42/xiiiH/22-24« 
,,     „   heirs  of,  42-43/ viiiE/8. 
Bolebec  of  Kingseye. 
,,    family  and  pedigree,  N/viiiB/5. 
,,    Herbt.  de,  of  Kingseye. 
„     „    scutage     of,     36-38/  viiiB/5  j 

40-44/viiiC/8 ;      4i-42/ixE/9  ; 

42-44/viiiD/6 ;  42/viiiD/i7; 

42-44/ixG/3S ;  N/viiiB/5  and 

15- 

w.  of,  36/1XA/13;  N/viiiB/5. 
Boleherst,  see  Bolnhurst. 
Bolesberia,  see  Edlesborough. 
Bolnhurst  (Boleherst),  36-43/ixA/9. 
Bonde  (Bunde),  Robt.,  42-44 /viiO/69. 
Borchfeld     (Borecfeld),     Thos.  de, 

42-44/ixG/i  1. 
Boterel,  John  de,  N/viiiB/13. 
Bottle  Claydon,  N/ixG/i. 
BOVENEY       (Buveneia),  N(viiiB/9; 

ixA/21). 

,,    Matilda     dau.     of     Ric.  de, 

36-  38/ixA,/2i. 
Boves,  Hugh  de,  N/iiD/4. 
Bovet,  Will.,  42-44/viiO/75. 
Bradwell,  co.  Essex,  N/ixE/16. 
Bradwell,  N/viiiB/12. 

Brai,  Lovel  and  Ba?ilea,  de,  N/ixH/5. 

Braibroc,  Robt.  de,  N/i. 

Brandon,  co.  Warws.,  N/ixD/6. 

Brant,  Ralf,  42/VHO/S7. 

Braose    (Brauose),    Albreda  de, 

N/xiiiC/2. 
,,    Will      de,  4o/viiiC/i8; 

N(viiiC/i8v;  ixG/41). 

Bray,  co.  Berks.,  4o/ixA/23- 
Braybrook,  see  Braibroc. 
Breautc,  Fawkes  de,  N(iiD;  viiiE/8). 
Bret[on],    Gilbt.    man    of    Alan  le, 

37-  4o/viiL/i4. 
Brichull',  see  Brickhill. 
BRICKHILL  (Brichull'). 

,,    grant  in,  35-44/^0/7. 
,,    Little,  N/xiiiL. 
Bridgwater,  co.  Soms.,  N/viiiB/12. 
Brill    (Bruhella,    Bruhull,  Bryhell), 
§  12;  §  16;  N(v/n;  jcifA). 
,,    allowance  on,  38-44/UD/14. 
„    grant    in,    35-37  11D/2;    3S,  xii ; 
40-44/xii;  N/iiD/2  and  14. 


264 


INDBX 


Brill. 

„    increment  of,  35-44/v/n. 

repairs  to  Kg.'s  houses,  40/iiE/r); 
4i(v/4  !  v/11  ;  xiiA/4). 
,,    separate       account,       38/xiiA ; 

40-44/xiiA. 
„    tallaged,  43-44/'viiiF/i2. 
Brirae,  see  Culworth. 
Broc,  Edelina  del,  N/xiiiL. 
„    Eva     de,     4o/xiiiA/2;  family, 

N/xiiiA/2. 
Brocton,  see  Broughton. 
Bromham,  N/v/5,  N/viiiA/ac. 
Broughton  (Brocton),  N/viiiB/12. 
„    Robt.  de,  attests  N/xiiiD/20. 
„    Will,  de,  44/ixH/i2;  N(ixH/i2; 

xiiiD/20  attests). 
Broy,  Robt.  de,  35-4o/vi/2;  N/vi/2. 
Ralf  de,  35/V11G/21. 
Osbt.    de,    3S/viiiA/2h ; 
N/viiiA/2h. 
Bruhell,  BruhuU,  see  Brill. 
Brunus,  Godwin,  35-43/viiB/2. 
Bryhell,  see  Brill. 
Bucchelawe,  see  Buckley. 
Buch',  Rog.,  42*44/viiO/68. 
Buckingham  (Bukingham),   Will,  de, 

44/xiiiM/i3. 
Buckinghamshire,  increment  of  farm, 
N/iv. 

Buckland,  co.  Berks.,  N/ixA/2. 
Buckley  Half   Hundred  (Bukelawe, 
Bukelaewa,  Bucchelawe). 

„    amerced,  35-4I/v"L^/3  J 

42-44/viiO/22. 
Buggeden  (loc.  incert.),  36-43/ixA/9. 
Builli,     John     de,  4o/viiiC/i6; 

N/viiiC/16. 
„    Ida  dau.  of  Hugh  de,  N/viiE/16. 
„    Scutage,  4i-42/ixE/7; 

42{viiiD/iS,  viiiE/15). 
Buissi,  Cecily  de,  X/viiiC/16. 

,,    Matilda  de,  N'viiiC/iSp. 
Bukelawa,  see  Buckley. 
Bundt:,  see  Bonde. 

Bunestowe  Hundred  (Bunestou), 
amerced,  42-44/VHO/17. 

Burestroda  (Burstrod),  Ralf  de, 
39*44/  vhN/x  2. 

Burnham  Hundred,  amerced, 
35-36/viiE/4;  42-44/viiO/8. 

Burnham,  N/viiiB/x. 

Buveneia,  see  Boveney. 


Cabuis  (Kabuz). 
„    family,  N/viiG/24. 
„    John,  35-36/  vhG/24. 


Cahaignes    (Chahaignes,  Cahaignis, 

Chaagnis). 
,,    Hugh    de,    scut.,    36-37/viiiB/7 ; 
40-42/ viiiC/2  ;   42-44/viiiI)/ r ; 
42/viiiE/i3;  42/ixG/4o; 
N/viiiB/7. 
,,    Phil,  and  Herbergia,  N/xiiin/20. 
,,    Will.  s.  of  Ralf  de,  40/viiiC/iS. 
Cahov,  see  Cayho. 
Caldecote  by  Newport,  N/viiiB/12. 
Caldecote     (loc.     incert.),  qo/ixC/j; 
N/ixC/7. 

Calendar,  methods  adopted  for  this, 

§  4;  §  14- 
,,    rearrangement  of  items  in,  §  16. 
Cambridge,  burgh  of,  N/iii. 
Camelton,  see  Campton. 
camera,  Ric.  de,  39/viiN/5. 
camerarius,  see  Mauduit. 
„    de  Luiton,    Will.,    39-4o/viiM/5 ; 

family,  N/viiM/5. 
a,    Londoniensis,  N/viiM/5. 
Campania    (Champaine).     Adam  dc, 

37-4o/viiL/6  ;  44/viiL/6. 
Campton     (Camelton),     Turkill  de, 

39-44/viiM/i5. 
Canterbury,    Christ    Church  Priory, 
39/vKN/S. 
,,    Hubert  Walter  Archbp.  of  (1193- 
1205). 

,,     „    offerings     before,  41/ixD; 
42/ixF. 

„      ,,    wardships,  42/viiiE/i2; 

42-43/ixF/4. 
carbonarius.   Will.,  42-44/viiO/7. 
Carbunel  (Carbonel). 
,,    family,  N/ixG/9. 
,,    Hamo,  42/ixG/9> 
Caron,  see  Carun. 
Carpentar',  Nich.,  42-44/viiO/68. 
Cartae  of  1166,  N/viiiAB. 
Carun,  see  also  Sherington. 
,,    family  of,  N/viiE/16. 
„    Ric.  de,  35-36/viiE/i6-i7. 
Cassington,  co.    Oxon.,  N/ixC/4. 
Casteilfun,    Hen.    de,    pleas  before, 

39-44/viiO. 
Castle-guard,     N(viiiB/9;  viiiB/15; 

ixF/6;  xC/3). 
Cattestorpe  (Catestrop),  loc.  incert. 

4o/xiiiB/2;  4i/xiiiD/2; 
N/ixE/4. 

Cattle,    prices    of,    see    Stocking  of 
Manors. 

Cattshill,  co.   Surrey,  N/xiiiL. 
Caversfield    (now    co.  Oxon.), 
N/viiiC/i8g. 
,,    daus.  of  Sibil  de,  N/viiiB/17. 
Caverton,  John  de,  N/viiiB/16. 


Cayho  (Gahov,  Kaiho,  Kaioto,  Cay- 
hou)  [  ?  Cayeux  in  Nor- 
mandy]. 

„    Robt.  de,  41-43/iiD/io; 

42/viiiD/i9;  42/viiiE/i5. 
Cestresham,  see  Chesham. 
Chaisnedoit,  see  Chenduit. 
Chalfont     (Chiaufunt),     N(viiD/5 ; 

viiiB/15). 
Chalton  in  Toddington,  N/viiK/3. 
Chamberlain,  see  camerarius  and  Mau- 
duit. 

Chancellor,  §  2;  §  18. 
Chancellor's  Roll,  §  3. 
Chaucumbe,    Hugh    de,  36/ixA/3; 

N/ixA/3. 
Chaurcis,  see  Chaworth. 
Chausi,  Geoff,  de,  42-43^x6/4. 
Chaworth,     family     and  pedigree, 

N/v/8. 

Chawston  in  Roxton,  N/viiiC/16. 
Cheddington,  N/viiiB/12. 
Chellington,  N/viiiC/iSy. 
Chelmscote,  co.  Warws.,  N/viiiB/15. 
Chenduit,  wid.  of  Sim.  de,  N/viiiB/9. 
Chenies,  see  Isenhamstead. 
Chesham  (Cestresham),  39-40/ viiN/ 16  ; 

42-44/xiiiII/22 ;  44/ixH/i2; 

N(viiiB/9;  ixH/12). 
Chesney,  Rog.  de,  N/xiiiA/2. 
Chester,      Earl      of,  36/viiiB/x6; 

40/viiiC/iS ;  N/viiiC/iSo. 
Chesterton    (Cestreton),    co.  Cambs., 

Robt.  de,  42-44/1x0/37. 
Chetwode,  N/viiiC/i8q. 
Cheyney,  John  de,  N/ixF/6. 
Chicheley,  N/viiiB/12. 
Chicksand       Priory  (Chikesand), 

N(viiK/4b;  viiiA/2g). 
„    pardon  to,  35/VUF/3C;  3g/viiM/9. 
Chief  Justiciar,  §  2;  §  18. 
Chikesand,  see  Chicksand. 
Chilton  N(ixA/5,  ixF/2). 
Chokes       (Cioches),       Honour  of, 

N(iiD/i2;  viiiB/9). 
Chronology  of  the  period,  §  18. 
Cimmay,  Gilbt.  de,  N/viiM/5. 
Citon,  see  Eaten  Bray. 
Claibroc,  Baldw.  de,  42-44 /viiO/46. 
Clanfield      (Clenefeld),     co.  Oxon., 

44/ixH/6;  N(ixG/4i  ;  xiii/H). 
Clapham,  N(ixG/i  ;  ixH/5). 
Clare,     Alice     dau.     of  Richard, 

N/viiiB/3  pedigree. 
„    Earl,    40/viiiC/iS;  42/viiiE/i5; 

N(viiiC/iSa;  viiiD/iqg). 
„    Gilbt.     de,     E.     of  Hertford, 

N/viiM/5. 
„    Isabel,  dm.  of  Ric.  de,  N/ixA/4. 


IX  265 

Claydon,  East,  N/ixB/i. 

Clenefeld,  see  Clanfield. 

clericus,  see  Elias,  Herefrid,  Herbert, 

Hinton,  Roger. 
Clifford,   Walt,   de,  N/viiiB/i4g. 
Clifton    Hundred,  amerced, 

42-44/viiO/25. 
Clifton    [Reynes],  amerced, 

37/viiL/i2. 
Clinton  (Clynton). 
family,  N/ixA/i. 
,,    Geoff,  de,  N/viiiB/2;  ixA/i). 
,,    Hen.  de,  and  w.  Amice,  36/ixA/i. 
„    Hen.  de,  37-44/XA/3;  4i(ixE/n, 
xivA) ;  42-44/1x6/44-45  ; 

44/viiP/n  ;  N/viiiB/6. 
„    Jordan         de,  42/xiiiH/i7; 

43/xiiiK/i7. 
,,    Lesceline     dau.    of    Geoff,  de, 

N/ixA/19. 
„    Will,  de,  30-40    (viiN/4,  ixC/4); 
4i/xiiiD/i7;  42-45/1x6/45; 
43/xiiiK/i7;  44/xiiiM/i7; 
N/viiM/5;       his  family, 
N/ixC/4. 
Clipston,  Robt.  de,  42/viiO/9o. 
Clynton,  see  Clinton. 
Cnichtwin  (Cnithwin),  35-36/viiE/u. 
Cockayne  Hatley,  see  Hatley  Port. 
Cockfield,    Kokefeld,    Cokefeud),  co. 
Suffolk;  family,  N/ixE/n. 
„    Lucia  de,  41-44/ixE/n  ;  41/xivA. 
Cocus  (Cokus,  Coc). 
,,    Bernard,  35/v/7a. 
„    Will.,  39-43/viiN/i4. 
Colchester,  pleas  before  Ralf  Archd. 

of,  35-41/viiD-E. 
Cold  Brayfield,  N/xiiiC/2. 
Colrun,  Robt.,  35-40/viiD/i. 
Columbir',  Phil,  de,  attests,  N/iiD/12. 
Combustions,  42/xivC. 
Conveyance  of   prisoners,  approvers, 

etc.,  35-44/iiE-F. 
Cookham     (Cocham),     co.  Berks., 

4o/ixA/23. 
Cormelles,  Hugh  de,  N/v/15. 
„    Rog.  de,  N/v/15. 
Coronation  of  Richard  I,  35/iiE/i-2. 
Corston.  co.  Wilts.,  N/ixH/5. 
Cotes,  Robt.  de,  4i/xiiiD/i9. 
Cottesloe  Hundred  (Coteslawa). 
,,    amerced,  35/viiE/i. 
Courtenai,     Egelina    de.  N(viiiB/3 

pedigree ;  viiiC/iSh). 
Cranford,     John     de,     36/viiiB/i4g  ; 

N/viiiB/i4g. 
„    Rog.  de,  N/vinB/i4g. 
Cratel,  Godric,  N/viiin/7. 


266 


INDEX 


Crawley  (Crawelca),  loc.  incert. 

Walter  de,  35/VHD/8. 
Crawley,  Little,  N/viiiB/12. 
Creendon,  see  Crendon. 
Crendon    (Creendon),    35\36/viiC/3 ; 
42-44/VMO/44. 

„    Honour  of,  see  Giffard. 
Creshall,  co.  Essex,  N/viiiB/9. 
Croc,  Walt.,  42-44/1x0/24. 
Croeton,  N/viiiC/i8q. 
Croston,  Hugh  de,  35-40/VHE/2. 
Crusaders,  list  of,  38/viiiA/2-3. 
Cublinton,  N/xiiiA/2. 
Cuerendon,  see  Quarrendon. 
Culeworde,  see  Culworth. 
Culworth  (Culeworde),  co.  Northants. 

,,    family  of,  N/iv/4. 

,,    Osbert   s.    of   Ric.    de,    35/vi/i ; 

36-44/W5  ;  36/viiJ/3  ;  N/iv/S- 
Will.  s.  of  Ric.  de;  sheriff  1174- 
1179;  (N(iiD/i4;  iv/4). 
,,  balance  of  farms,  35-42/1V/4; 

4i-42(iv/9,  iv/n-12). 
,,    as    accountant,  38-44(iiDi4, 
v/4,  v/11),  38(ixA/i6,  xiiA), 
40-44/xiiA,  4o/xiiiA/2. 
Curci,  John  de,  37-41/viiK/io. 
Curia  Regis,  §  10. 
Curtenai,  see  Courtenai. 
Cute,  Ric,  39-4o/viiM/i3. 


Dairel,  see  Darel. 

Dallington,  co.  Northants.,  N/xiiiA/2. 
Danmartin,      Aubrey      Count  of, 
4o/xiiiC/7;  N(viiiB/i4a; 
xiiiC/7). 
Danvers,  see  Anuers. 
Darel,   Ralf,  42/ixG/25 ;  his  family, 

N/ixG/25. 
Datchet,  N/viiiB/9. 
David,  Earl,  see  Huntingdon. 
Dayrell,  see  Darel. 
Decanus,  Bart.,  35>4o/viiG/i7. 

„    Will.,  35-38/V11E/14. 
Ded,  Ric,  41/ixiiiD/ai. 
Deforestation  of  Beds.,  36-38/ixA/i6. 
Dena,  Hugh  de,  42-44/ viiO ,'55. 
Deptford,  co.  Kent,  N/viiiC/i8q. 
Desborough    Hundred  (Dusteberga, 
Dustleberga). 
amerced,  35-36/VHA/6 ; 

35-36/ viiG/4;  37/viiL/i; 
42-44/viiO/i. 
Descrupes,  Robt.  de,  42-43/vi iO/57. 
1  Desperate  Debts,'  §  17. 
Deth,         Robt.,         42-43/viiO/4S ; 

44/viiO/98. 
Dcyncourt,  see  Aiencurt. 


Dialogus  de  Scaccaric,  §  2. 
Diest,  Ernulf  de,  43/iiE/i2. 
Dileherst    [?    Tyler's  Green], 

N/viiiC/iSq. 
Disbursements  by  Sheriff,  §  7. 
Dispensator,     Amaury,  42/viiiE/i5; 

N(viiiE/i5  0;  xiiiA/2). 
Ditton,  N/viiiB/12. 
Dodder  shall,  N/viiiB/i4g. 
Dol,  Robt.,  44/viiP/i4. 
Dorney,  N(ixG/i;  ixll/i). 
4  Draiton  '  co.  Cambs.,  N/ixB/4. 
Drayton    Bealchamp    (Draiton),  see 

Basset,  William. 
Druval,  Will,  de,  42-44/ixG/ 16. 
Dudley  (co.  Worcs.)  Barony,  Priory 

and  Castle,  N/viiiB/12. 
Duke,  Adam,  42-44 /viiO/83. 
Dulch,  Ric,  42/viiO/43. 
Dunstable  (Dunestapl'). 
,,    Aaron  bro.  of  Leon  de,  37-44/xB/i. 
,,    Ric.  de,  41/xiiiE/io. 
Dunstable  Priory  (Dunestapl'). 
,,    foundation  of,  N/ixA/16. 
,,    grant     to,     35/iiD/4 ;     (N(iiD ; 

iiD/4;  iiD/n). 
,,    pardon  to,  35/viiF/ia;  38/viiK/2. 
,,    [?  canons  of], 
Dunstanville  (Dunestanuilla). 
„    Alan    de,    3S/vi/8;  tf/ixA/v, 
N/ixA/12. 
Alice  de,  N/viiiC/i8h. 
Dunton,    co.     Bucks.,  N(viiiB/i4b; 
xC/3). 

Dusteberga,     Dustleberga,    see  Des- 
borough. 


Easington,  N/viiiC/i8r. 

Eastcn     Mauduit,     co.  Northants., 

N/viiiB/2. 
Eaton    Bray    (Eiton,    Citon,  Eton, 

Eaton),  35/V/16;  4o/xiiiB/5; 

N/v/16. 

„    grant   in,    35-44/iiD/io ;    N/iiD ; 
N/iiD/11. 

Eaton  Socon,  Ford  in,  39-41  /viiM/ 11. 

Ebroic',  see  Evreux. 

Eddrop,  see  Eythorpe. 

Edlesboroucii  (Adulvesberga,  /Edul- 
fesbcrga,  Edulvesbiri,  Edul- 
fe-ber?a,  Edulfesberga,  ?  Bo- 
lesberia,  35/W7S  3$lvllT 
iS:  4o(ixv'D/3,  XiiiB/3-4, 
xiiiB/14):  4t(xiiiD/3-4, 
xiiiF/4.  xiiiG/2) ;  42/xiiiH/4  ; 
43/xiiiK/4;  44/XU1M/4; 
N(v/7,  7a.  7b;  viiiB/11; 
viiiB/12:  ixD/3;  ixE/4). 
„    tallaged, -43/viiiF/5. 


INDEX 


267 


Edric,  42/xi/6. 

Edulfesberga,  Edufesberga,  see  Edles- 

borough. 
Edulvesbiri,  see  Edlesborough. 
Eglise,    Will,    de    sainte    Mere,  see 

Sancte   Marie  Ecclesia. 
Eiton,  see  Eaton  Bray. 
Elias,  clerk  of  the  Sheriff, 

35-36/viiG/23. 
,,    clericus  de  Hinton,  see  Hinton. 

Ellesborough,  N/ixH/4. 
ELradon,  co.  Essex,  N/viiiB/9. 
Elstow  Abbey  (Alnesto). 
,,    pardon  to,  39/viiM/io. 
Ely  (Eli),  Adam  de,  X/v/xi. 
„    R.      Archd.      of,  43/xiiiK/i7; 
44/xiiiM/i7. 
Walt,  de,  38/ixA/i6b. 
Emberton,  N/viiiB/12. 
Engelford,  see  Englefield. 
Englefield,  co.  Berks.  (Engelford,  En- 
gelfeld). 

„    Will,  de,  44/ixH/i4;  N/viiC/2. 
Englishry,  N/vi/5. 

Erle    Hundred    (Erleie),  amerced, 

42-44/viiO/io. 
Ernald,  42 /xi/7. 

Ernest  family  of  Milton,  N/viiM/14. 
Ernis,  see  ^rnisius. 
Escheator  General,  N/xiiiB. 
Escheat  Rolls,  40/xiiiB-C  ;  41/xiiiD-C:  ; 
42/xiiiH-J;   §  13. 

Escheats,  §  9;  §  13. 
Escote,  Esteote,  see  Ascott. 
Esselega,  Wimund  de,  39-40/ viiN/ 16. 
Essendon,  see  Ashendon. 
Essex,     Lucy     dau.     of     Hen.  de, 
N/viiiB/3  pedigree. 

Eston,  see  Aston. 
Eton,  N/viiiB/i. 
Etton,  see  Eaton  Socon. 
Eure,  see  Iver. 

Eversholt  (Eueresholt),  N/viiiC/i8r. 

„    Ric.  de,  42-43/viiO/24. 

„    Will,  de,  42-44/viiO/66. 
Evreux,  ?  H.  archdeacon  of,  37/viiK. 
Executions       (justices),       37/iiF/2;  1 
38/iiF/4;  4i/iU'/7  3  43/»F/8.  j 
Eyres,  §  10;  appendix  to  Table  IV. 

„    cases  commonly  tried  at,  N/vii. 
Eythorn,  co.  Kent,  N/xiiiC/2. 
Eythorpe,  N/ixG/i. 
Eyton,  Rev.  R.  W.,  on  terrae  datae, 
N/iiD. 


faber,        Robt.,       of  Blackthorn, 

35-36/viiC/6. 
Fals,  John  le,  39-4o/viiN/i$. 
Faramus      of      Boulogne,"  N/iiD; 

N/iiD/10  and  n. 
Farndish      (Fernedis,  Fernedisch), 

35-40/V/6;  4o/xiiiC/6; 

4i/xiiiE/6;         42-44/xiiiJ /6  ; 

43/xiiil./6;  44/xiiiN/6; 

N/v/6. 

tallaged,  43/viiiF/S;  44/viiiG/4. 
Farnham  "Royal,  Ny  ixD /6. 
Farm  of  the  Burgh,  36-44/iii;  §  9. 
of  the  Shire,  35-44/i-ii;  balances, 
35/vVIj  3.S"44/1V;  description 
of,  §  7  ;  calculation  of,  §  8  ;  in 
1130,  §  8;  abstract  of,  Table  I. 
Favvler,  co.  Oxon.,  N/ixII/i. 
Felda,    Hugh    de    la,    35-38/VUD/5 ; 

N/viiD/5. 
Felmersiiamj  N/ixA/10. 
Felstead,  co.  Essex,  N/ixA/10. 
Fenles,  see  Fiennes. 
Fernedis,  Fernedisch,  see  Farndish. 
Ferrars,  daus.   of  Earl,  N(viiiB/i2; 

viiiC/i8q). 
Fiennes  (Fenles). 
,,    Ingram  (Engelram),  35-4c/iiD/io  ; 
N/iiD/10  and  11. 
Final  concord  of  nSS,  transcript  in 

full,  N/viiB/7. 
Finemore   by   Quainton,  N/ixG/14. 
Fines    imposed    at    Eyres,  N/vii; 

exemption      from,      §  15, 
N/viiE/3,  4. 
,,    in     connection      with  scutage, 
N/ixG. 
fitz,  see  also  Son  of. 
fitz  Elys,  family,  N/ixH/5. 
fitz  Gerold. 
,,     ,,    Robert,  attests,  N/v/15. 
,,     ,,    Warin,  N/viiiB/6. 
fitz    John,    A^nes    dau.     of  Payne, 

N/viiiB/i4b. 
fitz  Peter,  Gecff.,  X(viiiD/i9j j-  ixA/2). 
,,     ,,    accountant.     43./xiii/23  end 

26-27;  44/xiiiM/23  and  27. 
,,     ,,    pardon  to,  36/viiE/4. 
,,      „    pleas  before,   35-44/viiB/i-7 ; 

35-  44/viiC;  35-43/viif'-G; 

36-  43/viiII-J  ;  37-44/viiK-L; 
39-44/viiM-X  ;  44/viiP. 

,,      ,,    scutage.  42/viiiD/i9. 

,,  ,,  Earls  of  Essex,  N/vinC/iSq. 
fitz  Warin,  Alan,  42/ixF /y. 

,,     ,,    Fulk,  42/ixF/7. 
Flaitel,     Basile     dau.     of  Gerard, 
X/iiD/11. 


268 


INDEX 


Fleet  Marston,  N(ixF/6;  ixG/i). 
Flete,  -  -  -  de,  35/viiG/2i. 
Flitt  Hundred  (Flitte). 
„    amerced,  30-40/viiM/S. 
Flitton,  N/viiK/3. 
Flitwick,  N/viiiC/i8f. 
Fluer  de  Liz,  N/x. 
Foliot,  Margery,'  N/iiD/8. 
„    Ralf,  42-44/ixG/33. 
„    Robt.,  42/ixG/i5- 
Foil,  Rog.,  the  Otterer  (lutrarius,  fol- 
lutrarius,  le  follutrier,  de  fol- 
lutrier),  35-40/110/9;  his  heir, 
4i-44/iiD/9;  N/iiD/9. 
Fons  Ebroldi,  see  Fontevrault. 
Fontevrault  Abbey,  Anjou,  and  daugh- 
ter.     Priory    of    Grove  in 
Leighton  Buzzard. 
„    grant  to,  35-44/110/5-7;  N(iiD; 

iiD/5;  iiD/6). 
,,    pardon  to,  42/VHO/97. 
Ford,  see  Eaton  Socon. 
Forest,  N/ixA/16. 

Forest       of        Beds.  deforested, 

36-  38/ixA/i6;  N/ixA/16. 
Forest  Pleas,  35/vi/3;  35-43/viiB/i-6 ; 

35-44/viiC;  36-43/viiH-J  ; 
44/viiP ;  exemption  from, 
N/iv/4 ;  offences  tried  in, 
N/vii. 

forestar',  Rail",  35-40/viiG/io. 
Forester,  assault  on,  N/viiB/i. 
Forz,    Will,     de,     Ct.    of  Aumale, 

N/viiiC/iSf. 
Foscott      (Foxcota),  38-44/.XC/3; 

N/xC/3. 
Foxcota,  see  Foscott. 
Fraxineto,  John  de,  35-38/VHE/8. 
Fulebroc,  see  Fullbrook. 
Fulesho,  Adam  de,  42/viiO/o,2. 
Fullbrook    (Fulebroc),    co.  Warws., 

37-  44/xA/i  ;  N/viiiB/15. 
fullo,  Robt.,  35-40/yiiG/ 14. 
Fulmer,  N(viiiB/9;  ixH/4). 
Futsadame,  Ralf,  42-44^10/53. 


Gaddesden  (Gatesden)  co.  Herts. 
„    Aldulf  de,  42/ixG/42;  N/ixA/i 
pedigree;  N(ixE/4;  ixG/42). 
Gaherst,  see  Gayhurst. 
Gand,  Alice  de,  N/viiiB/2  pedigree. 
„    Gilbt.  de,  N/v/7. 
„    Roheise     wid.     of     Gilbt.  de, 
N/iiE/6. 

Gaols,  repairs  to,  see  Aylesbury,  Bed- 
ford, and  N/iiE. 

Gargate,  Hugh,  36/viiiB/ 17 ;  his 
family,  N/viiiB/77. 


Gawcott,  N/xiiiB. 

Gayhurst  (Gaherst),  N/viiiC/iSq. 

„    Ric.  de,  35-37/viiG/2. 
Geoffrey,  35-40/VUF/16 ;  39/viiM/i5. 
Geoffrey  (?  fitz  Roy)  the  Chancellor. 

„    pardon     to,      35/viiG/4a ; 
N/viiG/4a. 

Gerpunuilla,  see  Jarpouvillr;. 
Gibewin,     RaK,  36-4o/ixA/7; 

37-4o/ixB/5;  N/ixA/7. 
Giffard,         Honour        of  Earl, 

35-  39/viiG/i9;  36-39/ixA/4; 

36-  39/1XA/22;  36/1XA/12; 
N(viiiAB,  viiiC/iSa,  ixA/4; 
ixA/i2). 

,,    Ermengarde,     sis.     of  Walter, 

N/iiD/11. 
„    Matilda,  37/ixB/4;  N/ixB/4. 
,,    Reginald,  N/ixB/4. 

Gilbert,  42/xi/7.    See  also  Bret[on]. 
Gipeswic,  see  Ipswich. 
Girunde  (Gyrunda,  Gironde). 

„    family,  N/xC/3. 

,,    Hamo       de,  4o/viiiC/i5; 

42-44/viiiD/i2  ;  42-44/viiiE/6. 

„    Hugh  de,  38-44/XC/3. 

Gisnes,  see  Guisnes. 
Githnes,  see  Guisnes. 
Gladley,  N/xiiiA/2. 
Glanvill,      Rog.      de,  39-44/1x0/5; 
N/ixC/5. 

Gloucester,  Earl  of,  42/viiiD/i9. 

„    Robt.,  Earl  of,  N/viiM/5. 

,,    See  also  Clare. 

„    Will.,  Earl  of,  N/viiM/5. 
Glympton,  co.  Oxon.,  N/ixA/i. 
Goods  of  Felons  and  Fugitives,  §  12. 
Gournai,  see  Gurnav. 
Gozelin    Brito    and    his    s.  Hugh, 
N/xiiiA/2. 

Graenvilla,  see  Grenville. 
Grafton,  Ralf  de,  N/ixA/3. 
Gransden,      cos.      Cambs.  Hunts., 

N/ixE/16. 
Green's     Norton,     co.  Northants., 

N(iiD;  iiD/i2^. 

Greienuilla,  see  Grenville. 
Grendon      (prob.      for  Crendon), 
44/viiP/i3. 

Grenville     (Graenuilla,  Greienuilla, 

Graienuilla,  Greinvilla). 
„    Eust.   de,   3S/vi/8;   36-38/1XA/5 ; 

44/VHP/6. 
,,    family  of,  N/ixA/5. 
,,    Gerard  de,  35/V1/8. 
]     ,,    Robt.  de,  42-43/ vii()/6. 


INDEX 


269 


Grove  Priory  iD  Leighton  Buzzard, 
see  Fontevrauit  and  Leighion 
Buzzard. 
Gruigni,  Robt.  de,  \8'ixA/!6d. 
Guildford,  co.  Surrey,  N/xiiiL. 
Guisnes  (Githn^s,  Gi.-nes). 

,,    Count  of,  42/xiiiJ  In,  43/xiiiL/?  1 . 

„    Phil,  de,  38/1x^/160. 
Gurnay  (Gournay),  Hugh  de. 

,,    family  of,  X/iiD/Ti. 

„    grant         to,         35-3o/iiD/ix ; 

42-44/iiD/ II  ;  N/iiD/4. 
lands      escheated,  401'xinB/n, 
xiiiC/S) ;  4i(xniD/n, 
xiiiE/S) ;  42/iiE/ic-i  1 . 
Gyrunda,  see  Girunde. 


Haddenham,  N/ixF/2. 
Haddon,  co.  Derby.  N/ixD/i. 
Hadestoche,  Hadestoke,  see  Adstock. 
Haia,     Walt.     de     la,     38-44/XC/3 ; 

N/xC/3. 
„    Will,  de  la,  30-40/ viiM/6. 
Halmedon,  see  Helmdon. 
Halton,  Hamo  de,  42-43^^0/36-37, 

44/viiO/g8. 
Hambleden      (Hameleden),  Jordan 

clericus       de,  37-44/vi/c), 

N/vi/9. 
Hameleden,  see  Hambleden. 
Kamo,  3Q/viiN/i6. 
,,    Amabel  m.  of,  44/ixII/io. 
Hampden,  N/viiiB/12. 
Hamslape,  see  Hanslope. 
Hamtoua,  Jas.  de,  N/v/15. 

„    Steph.  de,  attests,  N/v/15. 
Hanechedene,  lost  D.B.  manor,  sug- 
gested     to      be  Radnage, 

N/iiD/15. 
Hanewich,  see  Hinwick. 
Hanslope  (Hamslape,,  / ly. 

Mich,  de,  N/viiiB/2. 
Hanworth,  co.  Middx.,  N/ixG/25. 
Harawald,  Harewald,  see  Harrcld. 
Hard  mead,  N/viiiB/i  and  12. 
Hardwick  (Herddewich),  loc.  incert., 

40-42/1XC/7  ;  X/ixC/7. 
Hardwick,  N/viiiH/i^. 
„    Gilbt.  de,  42-44 'viiO/67. 
,,    Robt.  de,  42-4  t/viiO/74. 
Hareng,  Ralf,  subescheator, 

42/xiiiH-J  ;  N/xiiiH. 
Harcwood,  co.  Yks.,  N'/xiiiB. 
Harlingdon  (Herlingedon). 
,,    Urban  de,  3^-4 ;  viiG/22. 
Harpenden  (Harpeden),  co.  Herts. 
„    Rah  de,  42-44  ixG/ 7. 


i  HaEROIO,  (Harawald,  Harewald, 
Harewuria),  4o/xiiiC/2; 
4i(xiiiK/2,  xiiiF/9,  xiiiG/4)  ; 
42/xiiiT/a;  4?/xiiiL/2) ; 

44/xiiiN/2;  N/xiiiC/2. 
,,    tallaged,  43/viiiF fj. 

Haetwcll  (Hcrtewelle),  N/viiM/5. 
„    Walter  de,  42-43/ixG/46. 

Hastings,    Matilda    de,  N/viiiB/15 
pedigree. 

Hatecrist,         Hugh,  35-40/V/6; 

4o/xiiiC/6;  4i/xiiiE/6; 

42/xiiiJ/6;  43/xiiiL/6 ; 

44/xiiiS"/6;  N/v/6. 
Katley      Port      (alias  Cockayne), 

N/v/15. 

Hauechford,     Robt.     de,    and  dau. 

Matilda,  N/viiB/7. 
Hauekechirche,      Mast.      Phil.  de, 

N/ixD/7a. 
Haversham  (Ilaveresham),  36/ixA/n  ; 
N/ixA/11. 
,,    Hugh  de,  36/ixA/n  ; 

42-44/ixG/47j  N/ixA/11. 
i  Hawks  as  increment  of  Sheriff's  farm, 

35-44/iv;  35/vi/1;  N/iv. 
1  Haya,  see  Haia. 

;  Headington,  co.  Oxon.,  N/viiiD/xgl. 
i  Hedgf.rley  (Huggeleia). 
,,    Vitalis  de,  3;/viiL/7. 
Hedsor    (Heddesore,     ?  Hodesorne, 
?  Heddesorn'),  N./ixG/x. 
,,    amerced,  42-44^-^0/43. 
.,    Will,  de,  42-44/ixG/6. 
I  Helmdon  (Halmedon),  co.  Nor  than  ts., 
37-42/XA/2;  N/viiiB/is. 
Helnewerch,  Ric.  de,  42-43/viiO/2. 
Henewich,  llennewich,  see  Hinwick. 
J   Henlow,  X(viiiA/2a;  ixG/41). 
!  Herbert  clericus,  41/ixE/i. 
Herddewich.  see  Hardwick. 
Hereford,   Cecily  w.  of  Rog.  E.  of, 

N/viiiB/t4b. 
Ilerefrid  clericus,  39/viiN/7. 
Herlingedon,  see  Harlingdon. 
Hermit       of       Aston  Clinton, 

42/xiiiII  '17b. 
Hersin,  Hugh  de,  4i/ixE/8. 
„    Robt.  de,  41-44.  ixE/S;  N/ixE/8. 

Herst,  see  Hurst. 
Hertford,  Earls  of,  see  Clare. 
Hesding,  Ernulf  de,  >>7v/8. 
Hicche,  see  Hitchin. 

Hikeshelle,  see  Ixhulle. 
Hildesdone,  see  Hillesdon, 
Hillesdon  (Hildesdone),  42/xiiiII/24. 


270 


INDEX 


Hinton  in  the  Hedges,  co.  Northants., 
Elias  clericus  de, 

43-44/ixH/4;  his  family, 
N/ixH/4. 

Hinwick  (Hanewich,  Henewich,  Hen- 

newic,  Hennewich),  35-40/V/2; 

40/xiiiC/5  ;  41  /xiiiE/5  ; 

42/xiiiJ/5;  43/xiiiL/5; 

44/xiiiN/5;  N(v/2;  and 

viiiC/i8y). 
Hitcham,  co.  Suff.,  N/ixE/11. 
Hitchin  (co.  Herts.),  Isaac  a  Jew  of, 

N/x. 

Ho  [  ?  Hoo  in  Luton]. 

,,    Will,  de,  39-4o/viiM/7. 
Hocclive,  see  Hockliffe. 
Hochton,  see  Houghton. 
Hockliffe  (Hocclive). 

„    Gilbt.  de,  35-39/viiF/i5- 
Hocton,  see  Houghton. 
Hodesorne,  see  Hedsor. 
Hoggeston,  N/viiiB/12. 
Holcot  (Holechote),  N/viiiC/iSy. 

„    Engenolf   and   Geoff,    de,  attest 

N/xiiiD/20. 
Holechote,  see  Holcot. 
Hollingdon  in  Soulbury,  N/viiiB/12. 
Holme    (Hulmus)    in  Biggleswade, 
N/ixF/7. 

„    grant  in,  35-44/HD/8;  N/iiD/8. 
Holmere  by  Missenden,  N/viiiC/i8h. 
Holnea,  see  Mercator,  Robert. 
Hommet,  family  of,  N/iiE/7. 
Horton,  N/viiiB/i. 
Hose,  Will..,  42/ixG/43. 
Hospitaller     Knights    of     St.  John 

Jerusalem. 
„    ?  gift  to,  38/ixA/i6a,  39/ixC/6, 

4i/viiM/i2. 
„    pardon    to,     35(viiB/6,  viiC/i, 
viiF/3,    viiG/6);  37(viiH/4, 
viiK/2  and  4,  viiL/2  and  4); 
3Q(viiM/9-io,  viiN/S). 
Hostiarius  Regis,  N/xiiiL. 
Houghton  Regis  (Hochton,  Hocton), 
4o/xiiiC/8;  41/xiiiE/S, 
xiiiF/6)  ;  42 /HE [4. 
„    grant  in,  35,/iiD/4;  35-44/iiD/ii ; 
N(iiD;  iiD74,  11  ;  iiE/10). 
Regin.  de,  39/ixC/i. 
Houghton,  Will,  de,  N/viiM/5. 
Hugeden,  Huggenden,    see  Hughen- 
den. 

Huggeleia,  see  Hedgorley. 
Hugiienden     (Hugeden,  Hugenden, 
Huggenden),  N/ixA/i. 

„    Fulk  de,  35-43/ ViiB/ 15. 

„    Rait  de,  35-3o/viiG/24. 

„    Rog.  de,  3S-44/XC/2. 


Hulle,  Robt.  de  la,  42-44/viiO/9. 

Hulmo,      Will.      de  42-44/ixF/7; 
N/ixF/7. 

Hulmus,  see  Holme. 

Humez,  family  of,  N/iiE/7. 

Hundreds  of  Bucks,  and  Beds.  ;  ap- 
pendix, pp.  256-258. 

Hunifang  (Unifang). 
,,    Godfrey,  42-43/^^0/38. 
„    John,  42-43/viiO/38. 

hunter,  see  venator,  valtrarius. 

Huntingdon,     Earls     of,  N/viiiB/2 
pedigree. 

,,    David  of  Scotland,  9th.  Earl  of, 

39/viiM/io. 
„    Isabel  ?  dau.  of  Sim.  5th  Earl  of, 

N/xA/i. 

„    Simon  bro.  of  Earl  of,  37-44/XA/4; 
N/xA/4. 

Simon  de  St.  Liz,  8th.  Earl  of, 
37.44/XA/4;  N/xA/4. 

Huntspill,  co.  Soms.,  N/viiiB/12. 

Hurley  Priory,  co.  Berks.,  N/v/15. 

Hurst        (Herst),        Wait.  del, 
42-44/viiO/i8. 

Husborne  Crawley,  N/viiiC/i8f. 

Huscarl  (Huscharl,  Uscarl),  Ruelent, 
42-44(ixG/io,  ixG/30). 

Hyda  de  Hulmo,  see  Holme. 

Hyda  [?  Hyde  in  Luton]. 
,,    Will,  de  la,  39-40/VUM/3. 


Ickenham,  co.  Middx.,  N/viiG/24. 
Iffley,  co.  Oxon.,  N(viiiB/6;  ixE/16). 
Ilmer,   N(viiiC/i8u ;  ixA/13). 
Increment,  35-44/iv ;  §  8;  §  9;  N/iv. 
Ipsden,  co.  Oxon.,  N/ixH/5. 
Ipswich  (Gipeswic,  Gipewiz). 

„    Ursell  (Jew)  of,  38-44/xC/i. 
Irthlingborough,       co.  Northants., 

N(viiiB/i7;  ixD/i). 
Isenhamstede     [Chenies],  amerced, 

42-43/viiO/38. 
,,    Alex,  de,  42-43/viiO/6i. 
Iver  (Eure),  amerced,  42-44/viiO/53 ; 

N/ixG/14. 
Ivri,     barony     of,     see     de,  Sancto 

Walerico. 
Ixhijlle  Hundred  (Hikeshelle). 
„    amerced,  35-36/viiE/^. 


Jarponville  (Gerpunvilla). 
,,    Albreda  de,  44/1XH/15. 
,,    Alice  de,  N(viiiC/i8u;  ixE/16). 
,,    family  and  pedigree,  N/ixA/13. 
,,    Will,   de,   30/ixA/i3;  N/ixA/13. 


INDEX 


271 


Jews,         37-44/xA-C;  39/iiF/6; 

4i-44/ixE/i2 ;  N/iiF/6;  list 
of,  in  Bucks,  and  Beds., 
N/x;  massacres  of,  N/xC/i. 

John  Count  of  Mortain,  later  King 
John ;  see  Mortain. 

Jordan  clericus,  see  Hambleden. 

Judaica,  §  12 ;  N/x. 

1  Judgments  '  or  Ordeals,  §  7. 

Justices  in  Eyre,  §  10. 

1  Justices  '  or  sentences,  §  7  ;  see  also 
Executions. 

Justiciar,  Chief,  §§  2,  10,  18. 


Kahaines,  etc.,  see  Cahaignes. 

Kaiho,  see  Cay  ho. 

Kaioto,  see  Cayho. 

Keg  worth,  co.  Leic,  N/viiiB/6. 

Kemeston,  see  Kempston. 

Kempston       (Kemeston),  amerced, 

42-43/VUO/64. 
Hugh  s.  of  Pet.  de,  35"4o/viiF/i7  ; 

42/viiO/3i. 
Kenilworth  Abbey  (Kenillewurda),  co. 

Warw. 

,,    pardon  to,  35/viiG/4b. 
Keynes,  see  Cahaignes. 
Kimble,  N/viiiB/5. 
Kimbolton,  Honour  of,  N/viiiC/iSg. 
Kingeshull,  see  Kingshill. 
Kingestan  (Kingeston). 

,,    Will,  de,  42-44/ ixG/ 12. 
Kingseye  (now  co.  Oxon.),  N/viiiB/5. 

See  also  Bolebec.  of  Kingseye. 
Kingshull  (Kingeshull). 

„    Will.         de,         39-40/  viiM/  24; 
43/viiM/24. 

,,    grant  in,  N/iiD/n. 
Kingston  Blount,  co.  Oxon.,  N/ixF/6. 
Kington,  co.  Herefs.,  N/v/15. 
Kivelioc,  Mabel  dnu.    of    Hugh  de, 

N/viiiC/iS  o. 
Knighthoods,  see  Templars  and  Hos- 
pitallers. 
Kokefeld,  see  Cockfield. 


Lacele,  Geoff,  de,  attests,  N/iiD/12. 
Lambricht     (Lanbricht),     35"44/v/3  5 
N/v/3. 

Lamport  in  Stow,  N/vnG/20. 
Lancelin,  Steph.,  40-42/1x0/7. 
«  Lands  Granted  '  (terre  date),  §  7. 
Langetot,  Emma  de,  N/ixA/12. 

Ralf  and  Alice  de,  N/xiiiA/2. 
Lanvaley,  Will,  de,  N/ixA/2  pedigree. 
Lateburn,  see  Ledburn. 


LATHnuRY,  N/ixA/i. 
Lavendon.  N(viiiC/i8f,  ixA/i). 
Lecesho  [?  in  Willen],  N/xiiiD/20. 
Leckhamstead,  X(iv/4;  viiiC/i8q). 
Lecton,  Lechthon,  see  Leighton. 
Leddlrn    (Lateburn,    Ledcburn),  in 
Mcntmore,  4o/xiiiB/8; 
41/xiiin/S;  N/ixE/4. 
Ledet,  see  Leydet. 
Ledhall,  co.  Oxon.,  N/ixH/5. 
Lega  (loc.  incert.) 
,,    Geoff,  de,  37-44/XB/2. 
Lega  [probably  Thurleigh]. 
„    Bart,  de,   36/viiH/i  ;   N(viiH/i  ; 

viiiA/3d). 
„    Hugh  de,  N/viiH/i. 
,,    -  -  -  de,  38/viiiA/3. 
Legate,  Papal,  see  Ostia. 
Leham,         Rog.         clericus  de, 

42-44/'viiO/62. 
Leia,  John  de,  N/viiiB/15. 
Leia,  see  Bessels  Leigh. 
Leicester,      Earl     of,  36/viiiB/i5; 
42/viiiE/i5. 
Honour  of,  N/viiiB/15. 
Isabel    dau.    of    Robt.     E  of, 
N/viiiB/12. 
Leidet,  see  Leydet. 
Leighton  Buzzard  (Lecton,  Lecthon, 
Leocton,  Leochton,  Lethon). 
,,    grant    in,    35-44(^0/1,  iiD/5); 

N/iiD/i  and  5  and  6. 
,,    Hugh  de,  42/'viiO/Q3. 
,,    Prior  of,  42/VHO/96-97 ;  N/viiO. 
j     „    Stanhard         (Stonhard)  de, 
42-43/VHO/63. 
Lenveise,  Jordan,  36-43/ixA/9. 

,,    Hen.,  36-44/ixA/i4 ;  N/ixA/9. 
Leocton,  Leochton,  see  Leighton. 
I    Lescot,  see  Scot,  le. 
!  Lethon,  see  Leighton. 
Leydet  (Leidet),  Cristiana,  N/iiD/8. 
„    Robert,  N/iiD/8 
„    Wischard,   35-44/iiD/S,  N/iiD/S. 
LlELiNG  STONE  (Lillingestane), 

44/viiP/2o;  N/ixG/25. 
Limesy,  Matilda  de,  N/viiiE/S. 
Liministre,  Bern.  cTe,  38/viiiA/2j. 
Lincoln,  Aaron  of,  37-44/xA;  N/xA. 
Bishop  of,  pardon  to,  35/viiF/3- 
cathedral  of  ;  pardon  to,  3D(viiA/i, 
viiA/6,   viiG/4) ;   sacred  ves- 
sels in  pledge  to  Jews,  N/'xA. 
Ltnford,  NfviiiB/12;  ixA/7). 
Linley,  co.  Ox^n.,  N/ixF/6. 
Linton   [prob.   Pailton,  co.  Warws.]» 
37-44/xA/ij  N(viiiB/i5; 
xA/i). 


272 


INDEX 


Liscombe    (Liscumba),    in  Soulbury 

and  Stewkley,  37-40/1x8/5. 
Lisures,  family  de,  N/viiP/8. 
Littlecote    (Litlecota)    in  Stewkley, 

N/viiiB/12. 
„    Pet.  de,  35-36/viiE/n  ; 

42-44/viiO/47. 
Liveries  or  Payments,  §  7. 
London,   Ep.   of,   see    Sancte  Marie 

Ecclesia. 

London,    Tower    of ;    ordnance  for, 

39/iiE/b;  custody  of,  40/oi. 
longus,  Will.,  42-44/viiO/7 ;  42/X1/3. 
Lorinton,  Richelda  de,  N/viiiB/5. 
Lovat  or  Ouzel  River,  N/viiN/6. 
Loveinle  (Louente). 
„    Will.  de,  39/VUN/6; 

42-44/viiO/i3;  N/viiN/6. 
Lovel,  Fulk  [son  of],  N/ixH/5. 
Lucerna,  Hodierna  de,  N/ixA/3. 
Luci,  ?  Lettice  de,  N/viiiB/9. 
Lucintone,  Ralf  de,  N/ixG/25. 
Ludgershall,   co.    Wilts.,    Peter  de, 

N/ixA/2  pedigree. 
Ludgershall,  N/viiiC/i8y. 
Ludlow  Castle,  N/viiiB/12  (note  304). 
Luffield  Priory,  N/viiB/16. 
Luton  (Luiton). 
„    amerced,  35-44^/6. 
„    church,      early      claimants  of, 

N/viiM/5. 
„    grant  in,  35-44/^/3; 

36-44/iiD/i2  ;  N/iiD/3  and  12. 
propresture       in,  35-36/V/14; 

N/v/14. 

„    Will,  camerarius  de,  59"4o/viiM/5  ; 

N/viiM/5. 
Lutrarius,  note  on,  iiD/9. 


Maenfinus,  see  Meinfelin. 

Maidewell,  Sim.  de,  N/ixH/4. 

Maino  the  Breton,  and    his  descen- 
dants, N/viiB/16. 

Mainpast,  N/vii. 

Maisi,  Ernulf  de,  35-36^/7. 

Maisnil,  Gilbt.  de,  37/iiE/5. 

Maid',  Maldut,  Malduit,  see  Mauduit. 

Malesoures,         Hen.  3S/viiiA/3; 
N/viiiA/3D. 
„    Walt.,  38/ viii A/3. 

Malet,  Yrveius,  42/ixG/i4;  44/viiP/2  ; 
his  family,  N/ixG/14. 

Malherbe    (Malerbe),    David,  attests, 

N/xiiiD/20. 
„    Nieh.,  43-44/1x11/4;  X/ixH/4. 

Mamiuct,  family  of,  N/viiiC/i&J. 


Mandeville,  Beatrice  de,  N/viiiC/i8q. 
Ernulf  de,  and  w.  Alice,  N/v/15. 
Geoffrey,  attests,  N/v/15. 
„    Will,    de,    3rd    Earl    of  Essex, 
N/viiiC/i8f. 

Mannesheued,  see  Manshead. 
Mansel,    Will,    le,    36/viiiB/i6;  his 

family,  N/vii' B/ 16. 
Manshead  Hundked  (Mannesheued). 
,,    amerced,  35>38/viiD/2 ; 

37-38/VHK/2;  38/viiG/i8; 

d2-44/viiO/23. 

Maperteshala,  see  Meppershall. 
Mapledurham,  co.  Hants.,  N/ixE/16. 
Maplcdurwell,  co.    Hants.,  N/v/15. 
Mara,  Geoff,  de,  42/ixG/3x. 

,,    Robt.  de,  42-44/viiO/59. 
Marchand,  41  /iiE/3. 
Mare,  Matilda  de  la,  N/viiC/2. 
Marescallus,  see  Marshal. 
Maria,  Millicent  dau.    of    Thos.  de, 

N/iiD/xi. 
Marlow  (Merlawe). 
„    Will,  de,  35-43/viiB/i5. 
Marrnoutier    (Majus    Monasterium  at 
Tours),  Abbey  of,  N/viiiB/12. 
Marsh  Gibbon,  N/viiiB/12. 
Marshal  (Marescallus). 
,,    Honour  of  the,  N/ixA/5. 
ys    John,  37-44/V/21  ;  N/v/21. 
„    Ralf,  42-43/viiO/i6. 
,,    William,  later  Earl  of  Pembroke, 
39/viiM/i7;  42-44/ v/21  ; 

N(v/2i  ;       ixA/4) ;  attests, 
N/iiD/12. 
„      ,,    offering     by,  36-37/ixA/4; 

36/ixA/22;  38-39/ixA/22. 
„     „    pardon  to,  3$(viiB/5,  viiC/3, 

viiE/3,  viiJ/4);  N/viiB/s. 
„     „    scutage,  40/VH1C/18; 

42(viiiL)/i9  ;  viiiE/15). 
„      „    (II)      Earl     of  Pembroke, 

N/viiiC/iS. 
Marston,  Long,  co.  Herts.,  N/viiN/xo. 
Marston,  North,  N/viiiB/12. 
Marsworth,  N/ixG/i. 
Martel,   Osbert,   N(v/7;  ixE/4). 
Matem,  Alan  de,  attests,  N/v/15. 
Mauduit  (Maid',  Maldut,  Malduit). 
„    Alice  sis.  of  Will.,  N/ixA/i  pedi- 
gree. 

,,    family  and  pedigree,  N/viiiB/2. 

„    Matilda  dau.  of  Will.,  N/viiB/16. 

,,  Robt.,  fine  on  his  inheritance, 
4i-42/ixE/2;  scutage, 
42/viiiD/i3;  42/viiiE/7; 
amerced,  44/VUP/5;  par- 
doned, 44/viiP/i7. 


INDEX 


273 


Mauduit. 

„  Will.,  37-44/XA/4;  37-38/XA/6. 

„     „   scutage  36-44/VH1B/2; 

4o/viiiC/i8. 
„    Will,  of  Eastern,  N/viiiB/2. 
Maulay,  Pet.  de,  N/ixE/16. 
Medarius,  see  Medier. 
Medier,     Alex.     le,     35-37/viiB/i4 ; 

N/viiB/14. 
Medmenham,  Will,  de,  N/ixH/4. 
Meinfelin     (Meinfenin,  Maenfinus), 

N/viiB/x6. 
Mentmore,  N/viiiC/iS  o. 
Meppershall  (Maperteshala). 
,,    Gilbt.  de,  36-44/ixA/io ; 

42-43/viiO/77  ;  N/ixA/10. 
„    John  de,  N/ixC/4. 
mercator,  John,  35-4o/viiG/i3. 
„    Jordan,  35"37/vliG/I5- 
„    Robert,  of  Olncy,  35-40/ viiG/16. 
Salomon,  of  Wycombe, 

42-44/viiO/35. 

Merlawe,  see  Marlow. 
Merton        Priory,        co.  Surrey, 
42-44/ixH/2. 

Mey,  Robert,  N/i  (under  Braibroc). 
Middelton  (loc.  incert.) 

,,    Robt.  de,  39-4o/viiM/4. 
Middleton,  see  Milton, 
miller,  see  molendinarius. 
Milton  Brian,  N/viiiC/i8r. 
Milton  Ernest  (Middelton),  N/ixD/i. 

,,    Ernis'  (Ernest)  de,  39-40/VHM/14. 
Milton  Keynes,  N(viiiB/7,  viiiB/12). 
MiSPOURNE  river,  N/ixE/4. 
Missenden  Abbey,  final  concord  with 
(in   full)^   N/viiB/7;  founda- 
tion, N/viiG/19. 

molendinarius,  Hen.,  44/viiP/3_ 

„    Hugh,  44/viiP/s. 

,,    Ralf,  3^-40/ viiG/ 12. 

„    Ric,  42/viiO/63. 
Monachus,   Ralf,  37-44/XA/4,  but  in 
44  Morin,  Ralf.,  q.v. 

„    Ric,  N/viiiA/2g. 

„    Walt.,  3S/viiiA/2. 
Monceux,  Dreux  de,  N/iiD/11. 
Montchensi  (MuncheDesi). 

„    Agnes         de,         36/ viiiB/i4b  ; 

N/viiiB/i4b. 
Montdubleil,  see  Chaworth. 
Morel  (de  Mori'),  Miles,  42-44/ viiO/44- 

45;  42/ixG/i7. 
Morel  family  of  Addingrove,  N/ixH/5. 
Moretaine,  John  Count  of,  §  13. 

,,    adherents  of,  40(ixB/3,  xiiiA/2), 
4i-43/ixE/4. 

,,    honour  of,  42/xiiiII 7^5. 


Moretaine. 

,,    pardon    to,    37(viiF/i,  viiII/4, 
viiK/2,      viiL/1-2,     viiL/4)  ; 
38/viiG/i8. 
,,    scutage,  42/viiiD/i9. 

Morewich,    Hugh    de,    pleas  before, 
35-43/viiB/8-i7. 

Morin,  Gilbt.,  35/V/20. 

,,  Ralf,  35/viiB/i7;  4o/xiiiC/2-3 ; 
4i(xiiiD/i3,  xiiiE/2-3, 
xiiiE/9);  42(xiiiH/i3,  xiiiJ/2, 
xiiiJ/9);  43(xiiiK/i3,  xiiiL/2 
and  9);  44(xiiiM/i3.  xiiiN/2 
and  9);  N(xA/4,  xiiiC/2). 
„    Ric,  42/ixG/i3. 

Morkere  priest  cf  Luton,  N/viiM/5. 

Mules,  Nich.  de,  N/viiiB/3. 

Muleshou,  see  Mulsoe. 

Mulsoe  Hundred  (Muleshou). 
,,    amerced,  35/viiA/5  ; 

35-36/VHE/5;  42-44/viiO/i9. 

Munchenesi,  see  Montchensi. 

Murdach,       Ralf,       pleas  before, 
35-43/viiF-G. 

Murder  fine,  N/vi/5. 

Murell',  Eli^in  de,  42/viiO/4. 

Mureslea,  see  Mursley. 

Mursley       (Mureslea"),  N(viiiB/6; 
ixA/3). 

„  Hundred  amerced,  35-4o/viiG/6. 
„    Ralf  de,  35"4o/viiG/3-~ 


Neath  Abbey,  co.  Glamorg.,  N/ixA/5. 
Neirnuit,  Milo,  N/ixF/6. 
Neufmarche  (de  novo  mercato). 
,,    Hen.     de,     scut.,  36/viiiB/i3; 

4o/viiiC/i4;     42-43/viiiD/ 1 1  ; 

42/viiiE/i5;  and  his  succes- 
sors, N/vniB/12. 
NeviH,  Hugh  de,  pleas  before,  44/viiP. 
Newbury,  co.  Berks.,  N/v/8. 
Neweman,   Will.,  42/viiO/54. 
Neweton,  see  Newton. 
Newport   Pagnell   (Neuport,  Newe- 

port),  N/viiiB/12. 
,,    amerced,  42-43/viiO/i5. 
Newton     Blossomville  (Neweton), 

35/V/20;  4o/xiiiC/3; 

4i/xiiiE/3;  N(v/2o;  xiiiC/2). 
Nodariis,  see  Nowers.  * 
Nonant,  Hen.,  43/viiiE/S;  44/ixH/i8; 

N(viiiB/3;  viiiE/S). 
Norh',  see  Northampton. 
Normandy;    Army    of,  4o/viiiC/i8; 

2nd   Army,   42-44/viiiD;  3rd 

Army   of,   42-44(viiiE,    ixG)  ; 

exemptions,  4o/ixD/4; 

40-44  ixD;?:  4i(ixE/5,  ixE/7, 

ixE/9);  43/«H/3. 


274 


INDEX 


Northampton  (Norhamton).  ] 
castle  of,  35/viiB/:7:  N/viil3/i7. 
„    Robt.     s.  "of     Hugh  '  de  ?, 
4o/xiiiB/i2;  41/xiiiD/u. 
Northill,  N/viiiC/i8y. 
Novo  Burgo,  de  (Neubourg  in  Nor- 
mandy,   Newburgh)  confused 
with    Newbury  s    co.  Berks., 
N/v/8. 

„    Agnes,  dau.  of  Fog.  de,  N/i.xA/i. 

novo  mercato,  see  Neufraarche\ 
Nowers  (Nuers,  Nodariis)  of  Missen- 
den ;  family,  N/viiG/xg. 

„    Hugh        de,  3S-39/viiG/J9J 

N/viiG/19. 
Nuers,  see  Nowers. 
Numero  payments,  §  8,  N/oi. 


Oakley  (Achelai,  Aclai,  Aclea,  Ake- 
ley,  Aclay,  all  apparently 
Oakley  by  Brill),  35-44/V/4; 
43-44/ixH/5;  N(iiD/i4;  v/4; 
ixH/5). 

Oakley,  co.  Beds.,  N/ixH/5. 
Oakley,  co.  Oxon.,  N/ixF/6. 
Offerings  to  the  Court,  §  11  ;  N/ixA. 
Oger  s.  of  Oger,  sheriff  11 88,  11 89; 

35/i;  36-42/iv/i"2;  N/i;  pleas 

before,  39-44 /viiO. 
Olney  (Olnea,  Holnea)  ;  see  also  mer- 

cator,      Robt.;      40/xiiiB/i ; 

4i/xiiiF/2;       42-44/xiiiH/i  ; 

43/xiiiK/i  ;  44/xiiiM/i; 

N/xiiiB/i. 
landgable,  43/xiiiK/i. 
„    tallaged,  44/viiiG/3. 

Ordeals       (judgments),  38/iiF/4; 

4i/iiF/7;  43/»F/8. 
Ordrich  (Ordrici,  s.  of  Ordric),  Will., 

42-44/ixF/5. 
Ostia,     Alberic     Bp.     of,  Legate, 

N/viiM/5. 

Ostorius,  Geoff.,  attests,  N/iiD/12. 
Otringeham,  Will,  de,  39-40/viiM/i^. 
Otterer  serjeantv,  see  Foil. 
Oxinefort,  see  Oxford. 
Oxford  (Oxinefort),  see  son  of  Fulcher 
of,  Robt. 
„    Earls  of,  see  Vere. 
liberties  of,  N/iii. 

Over  Worton  (Horton),  co.  Oxon., 
N/ixC/4. 

OviNG        (Vuinges),  4i/xiiiD/i9; 

42/xiiiH  /  ;o  ;  X(viiiB/i2  ; 
viiiC/i8q;  «A/i;  xiiiD/19). 


Pabeafcaoi,  see  Son  of  Alan,  Hugh. 
PaDDI  ry  (Padebvria,  Padrbir*). 

„    Ha:no  de,  3c-4i/viiC/4. 

„    Ric.  de,  35-40/VHE/7. 
Padebaria,  see  Paabury. 
Paganel,  see  Payed. 
Pailton,  co.  Warws.,  see  Linton, 
palmer.  Will.,  42^10/75. 
Parentin,  Rcbt.  de,  and  w.  Matilda, 
35-43 /viiG/22j  N/viiG/22. 

Paris,  Bro.  Will,  de,  38/ixA/i6. 

parvus,  Pain,  42/viiO/88. 

Passelewe,         Gilbt.,  35-40^/4; 

37-44/XB/3;  38/viiiA/2; 
N(vi/4,     viiiA/2c) ;  attests, 
N/xiiiD/20. 
„    Hamo      (Hamund),  36/1XA/3; 
N/ixA/3. 
Jordan,  attests,  N/xiiiD/20. 
Simon,  42/viiiE/i2. 
„    Thos.,  3s/viiB/8. 

Will.,  attests,  N/xiiiD/20. 
Pate,  Osbt.,  42-43^^0/64. 
Pattishall      (Pateshella,  Patishille), 
co.  Northants.,  N/viiiA/3f. 
,,    Sim.  de,  38/viiiA/3;  38/ixA/i6; 
N/viiiA/3f;      pleas  before, 
42-44/viiO. 

Paynell           (Painell),  Gervase, 

36/viiiB/i2;  4o/viiiC/i2; 

barony,  family,  and  pedigree, 
N/viiiB/12. 

Pedefer,  see  Pied  de  fer. 
Pedigree,  sketch  tables  of 

Aumale,  Counts  of,  N/viiiC/18. 

Bidun,  N/ixA/i. 

Boclande,  N/ixA/2. 

Bolebec  of  Kingseye,  N/viiiB/5. 

Bolebec-Vere,  N/viiiB/3. 

Chaworth — Perche,  N/v/8. 

Cokefeld— Peverel,  N/ixE/11. 

Gar  gate — Caversfield,  N/viiiB/17. 

Mauduit,  N/viiiB/2. 

Paynel   (of  Newport  and  Bamp- 
ton),  N/viiiB/12. 

Peri— Morel— Basset,  N/ixH/5. 

Pinkeny    (of   Weedon   and  Win- 
grave),  N/viiiB/9. 

Port  of  Ilatley,  N/v/15. 

Romenel — Jarponville,  N/ixA/13 

St.  Walery,  N/ixG/41. 

Turville  of  Weston,  N/viiiIi/15. 

Windsor,  N/viiiB/i. 

Wycombe  (Ansgot  of),  N/viiB/7. 
Pegsdon,  in  Shillington,  N/viiM/5. 
Pembroke,  Earldom  of,  see  Clare. 
Pekn        (la       Penm:),  42/ixH/a 

N{viiiB/i5;  ixG/i). 
,,    Walt,  de,  42/ixG/S. 


INDEX 


275 


Perche  (Pcrtico). 
„    Count  of,  40/xiiiC/i. 
„    family  and  pedigree,  N/v/8. 
„    Geoff,  de,  35/V/8-9. 

Peri  (loc.  incert.),  4i/xiiiD/2o. 
Peri  (Waterperry,  co.  Oxon.);  see  also 
Pirie. 

Emma    de,    43-44/ixH/^ ;  family 
and  pedigree,  N/ixII/5. 
Pernell  wid.  of  Rich.,  ^a^/viiO/yi. 
Perron  (?   Beatrice)  sis.  of  Rolf  de, 

N/iiD/n. 
Pertehale,  see  Pertenhall. 
Pertenhall  (Pertehale). 
„    Ric.  de,  37-42/ixB/2;  N/ixB/2. 

Pertesuil,      Walt.      s.      of  Robt., 

39"4o/viiM/25. 
Pertico,  see  Perche. 
Pese,  Ihos.,  42-44/viiO/46. 
Peter,  35/VUE/7. 

Peterborough,  pleas  before  Abbot  of, 
37-44/viiK-L. 

Petsoe,  N/viiiB/12. 

Peverell,        Hugh,        41-44/ixE/i  1  ; 

41/xivA;   family,  N/ixE/11. 
Peverell      of     Dover,     Honour  of, 

N/viiiC/17. 
Peverell    of  Nottingham,  Honour  of, 

4o/viiiC/i7;  42-44^x0/46-47  ; 

N/viiiC/17. 

Philip,  Master,  43/ixD/j. 
„    neph.       of       Archbp.  Rouen, 
39/iiD/n. 

Picot,  Eugenia,  N(viiiC/i8u;  ixA/13). 

Pictavensis,  see  Poitou. 

Pictshill     (Pykeshull)     in  Turvey, 

N/viiiB/i4c. 
Piddington  (Pidinton),  co.  Oxon. 

Walter  serviens  of,  35-3^/viiC/5. 

Pied  de  fer  (Pedefer,  Piet  de  Fer, 
Pie  de  fer). 
„    John,  36-44/HC/3;  N/iiC/3. 

Pine,  Herbt.,  42,/viiO/o4. 

Pinkeny  (Pinkeigni,  Pinckeigni,  Pin- 

keiny,  Pinkenni). 
Ansculf  de,  N(viiiB/9,  viiiB/11). 
„    Gilbt.  de,  N/iv/4. 
„    Giles  de,  35-44/VUC/2 ; 

44/IXH/14;  N/viiC/2. 
„    Hen.    de,   4o-44/ixD/5;  scutage, 

36-44/viiiB/g  ;  40-44/viiiC/ 10  : 

42-44/viiiD/7  ;      42/viiiE/ 15  ; 

N /viiiB/9. 
„    of  Weedon,  family  and  pedigree, 

N/viiiB/g. 
„    Robt.  de,  36/viiiB/i4;  41/ixE/S; 

44/ixII/i  1-12 ;  N(viifB/9; 

ixH/n  and  12). 


Pipard,     Gilbt.,     i&fixAfiy-ZO]  his 
family,  N/ixA/20. 
,,    Will.,  42-44/ixG/2. 

Pipe  Rolls  (Great  Rolls  of  Exchequer) 
description,  §  1  ;  list  of  those 
entirely  printed,  §  3;  possible 
methods  of  calendaring.  §  4; 
dating  of,  §  5;  headings  of, 
§  6;  methods  of  the  Calendar, 
§  14;  disorder  of  the  original, 
§  16;  removal  of  '  desperate 
debts'  from,  §  17;  conspectus 
of,  1130-1199,  Table  IV. 

Pirie  (Pyrie),  see  aLo  Peri. 

,,    Rog.  de,  37-41/VHK/9. 
Pirun,  Asceline  w.  of  Hen.,  44/ixH/8; 

family,  X/ixH/8. 
piscator,  Robt.  (Ralf),  35-43/viiF/i4. 
pistor,  Ralf,  35"39/viiA/7. 
Pleissi,  Geoff,  de,  N/ixH/5. 
Poer,  Robt.,  44/viiP/q. 
Poinant,  Robt.,  42/xi/2. 
Poitou  (Pictavensis,  le  Peitevin). 

„    John  of,  N/v/13. 

„    Robt.  of,  35-36/V/13,  N/v/13. 

„  Will,  of,  37-44/v/i3  5  42-43/vll°/5- 
Pomeraie,  Samson  de  la,  42-44/ixF/6; 

42/ixG/2o;  N/ixF/6. 
Pont  de  l'Arche,  Will.,  N/viiiB/2. 
Ponte,  Thos.  de,  42-44/viiO/S6. 
Pornewic    (Pornew')     [loc.  incert.], 

37-44 /x A/4  ;  N/xA/4. 
Port,  Adam  de,  charter  of  (in  full), 
N/v/15. 

,,    Alice  dau.  of  Adam  de,  N/v/21. 
,,    family  and  pedigree,  N/v/15. 
,,    Hen.     de,     and     wife's  dower, 
35/V/15. 

Portejoie,  Walt.,  39-41 /viiM/23. 
Poterna  (?  Port),  Hen.  de,  N/v/15. 
Potsgrove,  N(yiiM/5;  xiiiA/2). 
Po'iton,  N/i  under  Braibroc. 
Praels,       Pet.       de,  4o/viiiC/i8; 

N/viiiC/iSt. 
Pratellis,  John  de,  42/viiiD/i9. 
Prato,  Ric.  de,  42/VUO/95. 
prepositus,  /Ernisius,  35-44/iiD/9. 

„    Osbert,  44/viiP/6. 

,,    Robt.,  37-39/VHL/5. 

,,    Samann,  4i/xiiA/4. 

„    Will.,  42-44/viiO/7o. 

.Prestele,  see  Priestley.  % 
Priestley    (Prestele,*  Presteleia),  in 
Flitwick. 
Samson  de,  42-44/viiO/8o. 

Prisoners,  conveyance  of,  37/iiF fi-2; 

3S/iiF/j-4;  43/  iiE/ 13-14  ; 

44/iiF/o;  §  7;  NiiiE;  iiF/i 
and  2). 


276 


INDEX 


Profer  cf  Sheriff,  §  5. 
4  Promises  '  to  the  Court,  §11;  N/ixA. 
Proprestures,  see  Purprestures. 
Pullocheshulla,  Pullokeshulla,  see  Pul- 
loxhiU. 

Pulloxhill   (Pullocheshulla,  Pullokes- 
hulla), N/viiK/3. 

amerced,  42-44/viiO/28. 

Arnold  de,  37/iiF/i. 
Punchardun,  Ric.  de,  37/viiK/7- 
Purprestures,  §  9  ;  N/v. 

exemption  from,  N/iv/4. 
Pyrie,  see  Pirie. 


Quatnton,  N/ixG/i  and  14. 
Quarrendon  (Cuerendon,  Querendon, 
Querndon). 
„    Geoff',  de,  N/v/ 12. 
„    Honour  of,  N/viiiC/i8q. 
„    Ric.  de,  35-40/VUE/15. 

Roger   serviens   of,    37-44/ixB/i  ; 
N/ixB/i. 

Quenci,      Robt.      de,  4o/viiiC/i8, 

N/viiiC/iSx. 
Querendon,  see  Quarrendon. 
Quillebeuf  en  Eure,  N/ixB/3. 


Radclive,  N/ixG/41. 
Raddon,  Ravening  de,  39-4o/viiN/i5- 
Radeneche,  see  Radnage. 
Radenherst,  see  Radnage. 
Radinges,  see  Reading. 
Radnage      (Radeneche,  Radenache, 
Radenherst),  4o/xiiiB/6; 
4i/xiiiD/6;  41/xiiiG/i; 
42/xiiiH/6. 
„    allowance       on,       40-42/HD/15 ; 

N/iiD/15. 
„    grant    in,    35-44/HD/6;  N/iiD/5 

and  6  and  15. 
„    identified      with  Hanechedene, 
N/iiD/15. 
tallaged,  4j/viiiF/2. 
Ralf,  35-3S/viiP:/S. 

Ramsey      Abbey      (Rameseia),  co. 
Hunts.,  N/viiM/5. 
„    Court  of  the  Abbot,  36-43/ixA/i4. 
Ravensden  (Ravenesden),  4i/xiiiE/9; 

42/xiiiJ/9;  43/xiiiL/9; 
44/xiiiN/Q. 
„    Robt.  s.  of  Aifric  de,  35-40/viiF/6. 
Reading  Abbey  (Rading'),  co.  Berks. 

„    pardon  to,  39/viiM/io. 
Redburgestok.  see  Redburnstoke. 
Redburnstoke    Hundred  (Rcdburnc- 
stoche,  Redburgestok). 
„    amerced,  35/yiiD/4;  39/viiM/io. 


Redderbrug  Hundred,  co.  Suss.,  N/i 

under  Ruffus. 
Remitraents   to   Sheriff    from  central 

Court.  §  11;  $  12. 
Revenue  from  the  Shires  of  Bucks,  and 

Beds.,  Table  II. 

Richard  I.  Kg.,  coronation  of, 
35/iiE/i,  2;  N/iiE/i;  char- 
ter of,  in  full,  N/iiD/12. 

Ridel,  Geoff.,  N/viiiB/2,  pedigree. 

1  Right,  to  have,'  an  offering  to  has- 
ten trial,  N/vi/2. 

Risborouch  (Risenberge,  Riseberge), 
N/iiE/7. 

,,    Herbt.        de,        42-43/viiO/49 ; 

44/viiO/98. 
Risenberga,  see  Risborough. 
Robert,        42/VUO/72;  42/xi/io; 

44/viiP/S- 
Rochella     Qa     Rochele),     Will.  de, 

35-  44  /v  /11  ;  N/v/11. 
Rochester,  archd.  of,  ^S/viiK/2. 
Rockingham  (Rokingeham)  Castle,  co. 

Northants.,  41-^2/1x^/2. 
Roger,  39/yiiM/n, 

,,    clericus  de  Leham,  42-44/viiO/62. 
Roheise,  3^-3S/viiE/8. 
Rokele,  Robt.  de  la,  N/ixA/5. 
Romenel,      family      and  pedigree, 

N/ixA/13. 
Romnev,  co.  Kent,  see  Romenel. 
Ros,  Will,  de,  N/viiiB/17. 
Roumelli,      Honour      of,  N(iiD/i2, 

viiiC/iSn. 
ROW  SHAM    in    Win  grave  (Rullesham), 

4i-44/ixE/8;  N(viiiB/9; 

ixE/S). 

Roxhill,  see  Wroxhill. 
ROXTON,  N/viiiC/i8y. 
Ruffus,  see  also  Rus?ell. 

,,    Hen.,  3S/viiiA/2;  N/viiiA/2g. 

,,    Ric,  35-36/^/7; 

,,    Sim.,  42-44/ixF/3;  N/ixC/2. 

,,    Walt.,  see  Russell. 

,,    Will.,     sheriff     1180-1187,  1190- 
1194;    N/oi;    N/i;    35-42/iv ; 

36-  39/iv;  40/oi  ;  4o/xiiiA/i-2  ; 
pleas  before,  39-44/viiM-N. 

Rullesham.  seo  Rowsham. 
Rus^el,  see  also  Ruffus. 

„    Ralf,  N/viiiB/ij. 

,,  Walt.,  3q-4o,'ixC/2;  N/ixC/2. 
Russenden,  Robt.  de,  36-39/viiIi/3. 


Sagittarius,  Hugh,  N/v/5. 
I    Salceio,  Robt.   de,  35-38/viiE/ 12. 


INDEX 


Salford  (Saleford). 
„    Hugh         de,         39-40/1XC/2  j 

42-44/ixF/3. 
„    Nigel  de,  attests.  N/xiiiD/20. 
„    Peter  de,  attests,  N/xiiiD/20. 

Robt.  de,  attests,  N/xiiiD/20. 
„    Rog.  de,  3S/viiiA/2;  4i/xiiiD/2o; 
42/xiiiH/2o;  N{viiiA/ad: 
ixC/2 ;  xiiiD/20). 
Salisbury,  Patric  £    of,  N/v/3  pedi- 
gree. 

Walter  de,  N/v/8  pedigree, 
sancta   Fide  (St.  Fai*h) 
„     „    family,  N/ixF/2. 
,,  John  de,  42-44/ixF/a. 

sancte    Marie    Eccicsia    (Ste.  Mere 
Eglise). 

,,  Will,  de,  36-39^/12,  ixA/15) ; 
40-42/iiD/n  ;  40-42 /iiD/ 15  ; 
40/V11B/15;  40-44/XA/3;  as 
escheator  general  of  England, 
40-44/xiiiB-J  ;  pardon  to 
him  37/viiL/4;  39/viiM/8; 
N/xiiiB. 

sancto     /Edmundo     (St.  Edmund's 
Bury). 

„    Isaac  de,  38-44/xC/i. 
,,    Seignured  de,  3S-44/XC/:. 
Albano  (Abbey  of  St.  Albac). 

,,    pardon  to,  35/viiG/6. 
Egidio  (St.  Giles). 
„    Ric.  de,  42-43/VHO/40 
Licio  (St.  Liz),  see  also  Hunting- 
don. 

,,    Matilda  de,  N/viiiB/2. 
,,    Isabel  de,  N(viiiB/i2 ;  xA/i). 
Manueio  (St.  Manveu),  Roger  de, 
42-44(iiD/i6,   v/12);  N/v/12. 
Medardo,  --  -  de,  37/viiL/io. 
Remigio   (St.    Remy),   Robt.  de, 
4o/xiiiC/4       and  4i(ixE/6, 
xiiiE/4);  family  of,  N(iiE/7  ; 
ixE/16). 
,,    WTalerico  (St.  Valery). 

Annora      de,  43/xiiiK/i6; 
44/ixH/6. 
„     „    Bernard       de,       36/vnJ /3 ; 
42-44/1XG/41  ;  44/viiP/io; 
N/viiJ/3. 

Guy  de,  scutage  38/viiiA/2  ; 
38-3*o/xB/4;  42/viiiC/i  ; 

N/viiiA/2a. 
„  family  of,  N/ixG/41. 

„    Matilda  de,  N/viiiC/i8v. 
„  Tho>.       de,       4i/xiiiE»/i6 ; 

42/xiiiH/i6;  N/iiE/12. 
Sandy    (Sandeie),    Hugh    parson  of, 
35-37/ viiF/4- 


Sanford,  Adam  de,  35/viiB/i7. 
„    John  de,  42/viiiE/i5; 

N/viiiE/x^m. 
„    Rog.   de,   35/V/19;  36-37/ixA/2; 
N/ixA/2. 

Sanleia,  see  Shenley. 

Santingfeld  Hospital,  see  Wissant. 

Sau.vdexton  (Santresdon), 
43-44/viiiF/u  ;  N/ixH/8. 

Sa.vbridgeworth,         co.  Herts., 
N/viiiC/i8q. 

Say,       Geoff.       de,  4o/viiiC/i8; 

42(vinD/iQ,     v I  i i F- / 1 5 )  ;  his 
family  and  fief,  N/viiiC/i8q. 
,,    Will,   and  daus.,   N/ixA/2  pedi- 
gree. 

Sea.  sco.,  see  Sancta.  Sancto. 
Scalford     (Scaldeford),     co.  Leic, 

40-42/1x0/2  ;  N/ixD/2. 
Scar--  -  [?  Scarnebrok,  Sharnbrook]. 
,,    Will,  de,  3S/viiiA/2,  N/viiiA/2e. 

Schelflcga,  see  Shelley. 

Schirinton,  Schiriton,  see  Sherington. 

Soipton,  see  Skipton. 

Sciriton,  see  Sherington. 

Scot,  le,   (Lescot)   Robt.,  35-44/V/12; 

36-39/^/15;  42-44/iiD/i6; 

N/v/12. 

Scutages,  §  12. 

Cartae  of  1166,  N/viiiAB. 
Galloway,  11S6,      at  20s. 

35-  30/VUE/17. 
Ransom,  1194  at  20s.,  40-44/viiiC ; 

N/viiiC. 

Wales,         1*89,         at  10s., 

36-  44/viiiA-B. 
2nd  Norman  Army,  1195,  at  20s., 

42/viiiD. 
3rd  Norman  Army,  1196,  at  20s., 
42/viiiE. 

Segelow       (Seggelawe)  Hundred, 

amerced,  35/viiE/9. 
Seinle,  see  Shenley. 
'  Selions  '       used       for       '  sallows,' 

N/ixD/7. 

Selvein,  Will.,  30*4o/viiN/2. 
Seman,  42/viiO/4<i. 
Semeilli,  see  Similly. 
Sempringham  Priory  (Simplingham), 

co.       Lines.,      pardon  to, 

37/viiK/4. 
Senlea,  see  Shenley. 
Serjeant,    larderer,    of  Meppershall, 

36-44/ixA/io;  N^ixA/io; 

ixC/4). 

larderer,      of      Aston  Clinton, 
39-4o/ixC/4;  N/ixC/4. 
,,    marshal  of  the  hawks,  N/ixA/r). 
,,    otterer,  see  Foil. 


278 


INDEX 


Serjeants  (servientes),  see  Piddington, 

Quarrendon. 
„    gift  to  200,  3$/ixA/i6e. 
„    livery  to,  38/ixA/iof. 
„    of  Count  John,  see  Wilton,  Will. 

de. 

Seuewell,  see  Sewell. 

Sewell  (Seuewell)  in  Houghton  Regis. 

„    Everard  de,  39/ixC/i  ;  N/ixC/i. 
Shabbington,  N/ixG/i. 
Sharnbrook,  see  Scar  -  -  -. 
Sheep,    prices    of,    see    Stocking  of 
Manors. 

Shelley,  co.  Essex,  N/i  under  Oger. 
Shenley  (Senlea,  Sanleia,  Seinle), 
•  N(viiiB/i6  ;  viiiC/iS  o). 

„    Ailward  de,  35-41 /viiE/ 10. 
„    Phil,  de,  37/viiL/S. 
Sheriff,    his    farm    and  allowances, 
35-44/i-ii. 
additional  payments  by,  42/xivB. 
fined  for  non-attendance,  42/V/2-1 : 
N/v/23. 

Sheriffs  of  Bucks,   and   Beds.,  1130- 
1199,  Table  IV. 
hereditary,  N/iv/4. 

Sherington    (Schirinton,  Schiriton, 

Sciriton),  35-36/viiE/ 16, 

43,/xiiiK/27,  44/xiiiM/27; 
N/viiiB/12. 

„    Ric.     de     [prob.  de  Caron], 

35-36/viiG/iS ;  36/viiiB/4. 

Will.          de,  4o-44/viiiC/7 ; 

42-44(viiiD/5,  viiiE/4) ; 
44/xiiiN/n. 

Ships    not    required     for  crusade, 

N/ixA/19. 
Shires  coupled  for  administration,  §  1. 
Sifrewast,     Robt.     de,  44/ixH/i2; 

N(viiiB/g;  family,  ixH/12). 
Similly  (Semeilli),  Will,  de,  39/HE/7; 

family  of,  N(iiE/7;  ixE/16). 
Simon,  42-43/VHO/42  ;  44/viiiO/9S. 

Earl,   and   his   bro.    Simon,  see 

Huntingdon. 

Simplingham,  see  Sempringham. 
Singleborough,  N/viiiC/iSr. 
Skipton  Castle,  co.  Yks.,  N/ixA/19. 
Slo,   Hemming   (Hamming)   de  (del), 

42-44/ viiO/51. 
Smith,  sec  faber. 
Someri,  see  Sumeri. 
Son  of.    See  also  Fitz. 

„    Adam,  Pet.,  36/viiJ/2; 

4o/xiiiA/2 

,,    /Edric,  see  Edric. 

,,    /Edward,  Hen.,  35-38/VHF/12. 

„     „    Hugh,  35:38/ viiF/ 13. 


Son  of. 

„    Arnold         (Ernis),  Regin., 

35-39/viiA/3;  4i/viiA/3; 

N/viiA/3. 
,,    Alan,  Hugh,  scutage  4o/viiiC/6; 

42-43(viiiD/4,    and    viiiE/3) : 

N/viiiC/6. 
,,    Aldeva,    Rich..    35-41  /viiK/ 15  ; 

35-43/viiF/8. 
Alexander,    Nigel,    pleas  before, 

35-43/viiF-G. 

„     ,,    Rich.,  N/xiiiD/20. 

Alueva,  Simon,  44/viiP/i6. 
,,    Anketil,  Rog.,  N/viiiB/5. 
,,    Ansgot,    Geoff,    and    Robt.,  see 
Wycombe. 

,,    Ansketil,  Will.,  35/VKB/8. 
,,    Ascur,  Regin.,  4i-44/ixE/3. 
„    Azo,  Mich.,  35-37/viiG/n. 

Bernard,      Hamo,      his  wid., 

35/viiG/2o;  N/viiG/20. 
,,  Ralf,  N/ixA/9,  an<*  see 

s.  of  Ralf. 

,,  Robt.,  38//viiiA/2i. 

Thos.     scutage  4o/viiiC/i8; 

N/viiiC/i8u;  N(ixA/i3; 

ixE/16;  xiiiC/2). 
,,     ,,     ,,    Maud  dau.  of,  N/ixA/i 

pedigree. 
Berner,  see  Bernard. 
,,    Brunman,         Walter,  attests, 

N/xiiiD/20. 

Coleman,  Ralf,  42-43^^0/56. 
„    David,   -  -  -,  44/HE/15. 

Edric,  Ralf,  35-40/viiF/Q. 
„    Elias,  Will.,  N/ixH/5. 
„     „    Will.  s.  of  Will.,  N/ixH/5. 
,,     ,,    see  also  fitz  Elys. 
,,    Ernis,  see  /Ernold. 
,,    Estieue        (Estgicue),  Robt., 
42-44/viiO/34. 

Eswi,  Ric,  37-44/xB/i. 
,,    Folbricht,  Will.,  35/iiE/3. 
„    Fulcher      of      Oxford,  Robt., 

35-37/1^/1;  38/xiiA/ia; 

4o/xiiA/3;  ^  4i/xiiA/4; 

42-44/xiiA/5-6 ;  N/iiC/i. 

,,    Geoffrey;  Geoff.,   N/ixA/i  pedi- 
gree. 

„     „    Ralf,  42-44/1XG/41. 

„      „    Will.,  35-43/VUB/9. 

,,    Gerold,  see  fitz  Gerald. 

,,    Goda,  Lowis,  44/VHP/16. 

„    Golda,  Ralf,  39-40/ vi^M/22. 

„    Guy,  Ric,  42-44/ viiO/79. 

„    Halenath        (Halenad),  Will., 

37-40/viiK/i. 
„    Hauio,  Hamo,  39-41/ viiM/18. 


INDEX 


279 


OF. 

Hamo  s.  of  Meinfelin,  Hamo, 
N(viiB/i6;  ixH/19);  see  also 
Son  of  Meinfelin,  Hamo. 

,,    fine  for  land,  35-39/viiB/i6. 

„  scutage,  36-44/viiiB/8; 
4o/viiiC/i8;  42(viiiD/io,, 
viiiE/10). 

„    Simon,  35-37/v"G/5- 

Will.,  44/ixH/7;  N/viiB/16. 
Harold,        Will.,  39(viiM/i7, 
ixC/6). 

Herbert,  Steph.,  ^y^S/^iiA./^, 
„    Will.,  39-40/ viiM/2. 
Hervey,     Osbt.,     pleas  before, 

39-44/viiM-N. 
Hugh,  John,  36/viiiB/i4h. 
,,    Geoff.,  37-38/viiK/6. 

Walt.,  42-44/viiO/74. 
Ivo,  see  Yvo. 

John,  Will.,  see  Houghton,  Will, 
s.  of  John  de. 
see  also  fitz  John. 
Jordan,  Geoff.,  42-44/ viiO/69. 
Levenod,  Will.,  37/viiL/ii. 
Leveva.  Reg.  (Regin.), 

39-4o/viiN/2. 
Lovel,  Fulk,  N/ixH/5. 
Marsill',  Godfrey,  44/ixH/i3. 
„    Nich.,  44/1XH/13. 
Meinfelin,      Hamo,  N/viiiB/2, 

pedigree. 
„    Will.,  37/VHL/9. 
„    see  also  Hamo  s.  of  Hamo  s. 

of  Meinfelin. 
Merihet,  Will.,  attests 

N/xiiiD/20. 
Mosse,  Isaac,  N/x. 
„    Josce,  37-44/XB/3. 
„    Mosse,  37-44/XB/2. 

Peter,  N/x. 
Nicholas,  Nigel,  attests 

N/xiiiD/20. 
„    Wajjt.,  35-43/viiB/i2. 
Nigel,     Will.     of  Sharnbrook, 
35-46/ vi/2 ;  N/vi/2. 
„    Will,  of  Boarstall,  44/viiP/S; 
N/viiP/8. 

Rich,  of  Beachampton,  scut- 
age,  36/viiiB/6 ;  4o/viiiC/9; 
42/viiiE/i5;      offering  by, 
37/viiK/8;  N/viiiB/6. 
„    Rich.,  Treasurer,  §  2. 

Oger,   Michael,  N/i. 

Oger,  Oger  (Sheriff  1188,  1189), 
35/i  *  36-42/iv/i  and  2;  pleas 
before,  39-44/viiO  ;  N/i. 

Ordui,  Will.,  39-40/viiM/n  ; 
42-44/viiO/2S;  42/X1/9. 


Son  of. 

,,    Osbert,  Ric,  see  Culworth. 

,,    Osmund,  Walt.,  35-4o/viiG/i7. 

,,    Other,  Walt.,  N/viiiB/i. 

,,    Paulin,  Ralf,  42'xi/n. 

,,    Payn,  Robt.,  42/xi/^ 

,,    Peter,  Geoffrey,  see  f.tz  Peter. 

,,    Simon,  N/fciiiA/^e. 
,,    Ralf,  Alexander,  N/xiiiD/20. 
,,      ,,    Robt.,  defendant  36-43/ixA/9  ; 
42-44^-^0/76. 

s.      of      Bernard,  Robt., 
36-44/ixA/i4;  44/ixA/24. 

j j        R?g-,  37-38/viiK/c. 

,,      ,,    Warner,  42-44/viiO/84. 

„  Will.,  42-44/ixF/2;  N/ixF/2. 

seneschal  of  Normandy, 

36/ixA/22. 
„    Renfred,       Gilbt.,  39/iiD/n. 

N/iiE/6. 
„     „    Rog.,  39/"E/6,  N/iiE/6. 
„    Restoud,  Will.,  N/ixH/8. 
„    Richard,  Fulk,  42-44/ixG/22. 
,,     ,,    Osbert,  see  Culworth. 
„      „    Sim.,  42-44/viiO/7o. 

,,    Thos.,  42/ixG/3;  N/ixF/6. 
„     ,,    Will.,  see  Culworth. 

Robert,  Alan,  39-40/VUN/3. 
,,      ,,    Eilbern,  35-36/viiF/n. 
„     ,,    Rog.,  42/VUO/9. 
,,  Warin,  40-42,^x0/7. 

„      ,,    Will.,  39-40/ viiN/ 9. 
,,    Roger,  Eustace,  42-44/viiO/6o. 
„     „    Robt.,  3G/viiiB/i4; 

40/viiiC/s  ;       42-43/viiiD/3 ; 

42-44/viiiE/2 ;  N/viiiB/i4C 
„    Rolland,  Alan,  42/ixG/2S. 
,,    Simon,         Peter,  38/viiiA/3 

N/viiiA/3e. 
,,    Stephen,  Will.,  42-44/VUO/54. 
,,    loli,  Hugh,  44/viiP/i2. 
,,      ,,    Robt.  44/viiP/i2. 
,,    Turstin,   Walt.,   42-43 /viiO/20. 
,,    Waleran,   Hugh,  35-3S/viiE/i2. 
,,    Warin,  see  fitz  Warm. 
,,    William,  Geoffrey,  N/ixA/12. 

Hervey,  42-43/ixF/i. 
,y  Hugh,  35-37,'viiA/2. 

„  »  John,  35-38/vnG/i. 
,,  ,,  Ralf,  42-44/ viiO/36. 
„      „    R?g.,  35-37/viiF/2. 

j,    Walt.,  42-44/viiO/2i. 
„     „    Will.,  N/ixH/5. 
,,    Y%-o,  Hugh,  37-44/xB/i. 
Sortf.lai    ?(Scottele),  X/viiiB/i4g. 
Sollblrv        (Sulebi),  37-4ls/ixB/5 

X/viiiB/12. 
SoLrii">RC?  (Sultrop). 

Norman  de,  42-44/VUO/73. 


280 


INDEX 


South    Periton    Castic-.    cc.  SorasL, 

N/ixA/ig. 
Southill,  N'/viiiC/jSo  and  i8y. 
Spech,  Will.,  Honour  of,  N/viiiC/16, 

i8y. 

Spigurnel,         Ric.  4<_-44/ixD/3; 

N/ixD/3. 
Sprig nel,  Nich.,  N/ixD/3. 
Stamburn,  co.  Essex,  N/ixA/5. 
Stanbridge  (Stanbrige,  Stanbngg). 
Half         Hundred,  amerced, 
3S-37/viiF/i. 
„     „    as  4  purpresture,'  35-4/i/v/i; 
N/v/i. 
Ralf  de,  42-44/ viiO/Si. 

Standone,  Godfr.  de,  44/viiP/ac. 
Stanford,  N/viiiC/i8y. 
Stanford,  Rog.  de,  N/ixH/S. 
Stanton       [  ?       Stanton  Bury], 

35-36/VHG/23. 
Stapelford,  Ralf  de,  35-40/VHF/16. 
Staugiiton,  Little,  N/JxB/2. 
Ste.    Mere   Eglise,  see  sancte  Maiie 

Ecclesia. 
Stecton  (Stocton),  loc.  incert. 

„    Hen.  de,  35-41 /viiE/ 15. 
Stocking     of     manors,  41/xiiiD-E, 

42/xiiiH-J,  43/iiE/i2. 
Stocton,  see  Stecton 
Stuteville,  Will,  de,  36/ixA/i9-20. 
Steppingley  (Stippingelega), 

N/viiiC/18  o. 
Will,  de,  39-4o/viiM/25. 

STEVINTON  (Stiuiton),    42-44/xiiiJ/n  ; 

43/xiiiK/u  ;        44,'xiiiN/i/ ; 

N/viiiC/i8x. 
Stewkley  (Stiueleia,  Stiuelay),  names 

of    places    and    tenants  in, 

41/xivA;  grant  of,  N(ixA/i  ; 

ixE/11). 

Stippingelega,  see  Steppingley. 

Stiueclea,  see  Stukeley. 

Stiueleia,  Stiuelay,  see  Stewkley. 

Stiviton,  see  Stevinton. 

Stoddene        Hundred,  amerced, 

42-44/viiO/29. 
Stodfalde,  see  Stotfold. 
Stodham,  see  Studham. 
Stoke  Hammond,  N/viiB/16. 
Stoke  Lyne,  co.  Oxon.,  N/ixE/11. 
Stoke  Fogeys,  N/viiiB/12. 
Stokes         Hundred,  amerced, 

42-44/viiO/i  1. 
Stotfold     (Stodfalde),  39-40/1x0/2; 

42-44/ixF/3;  N/viiiA/sd. 
Studham  (Stodham),  N/ixA/8. 

,,    Jordan  de,  36-44/ixA/S. 

„    Robt.  de,   36-44  ixA/8. 

„    Will,  de,  36-44 /ixA/S. 


[  Stukeley  (Sriueclea),  co.  Hunts. 

Walter     de,     39-44/1x0/5;  his 
family,  N/ixC/5. 
I   Suanetmrne,  see  Swanbcurne. 
I  Sulebi,  see  Soulbury. 
Sulgrave.  co.  Norfhants.,  N/iv/4. 
Sumeri  (Someri). 
,,    Johii  de,  N/viiiB/12. 

Ralf  de,  scutage,  4o/viiiC/i2; 
42/viiil)/9;  42/viiiE/i5; 
N/viiiB/12. 

Surive  [  ?  Surine],  Peter  de ;  scutage, 
4o/viiiC/4  ;  42-43/viiiI)/2 ; 
42-44/viiiE/i  ;  N/YiiiC/4. 

Sutton,  N/i  under  Braibroc. 

Swandourne  (Swaneburn,  Suaneburn), 
36-44/  x  1 21-22;  36/1XA/18 
4o/xiiiB/7J  4r/xiiif)/7 
4i/xiiiF/3;  42/xiiiH/7 
names  of  places  and  tenants 
in,        41/xivA;  tallagcd, 
43/viiiE/4;  N(viiiB/i2 ; 

ixA/18;  ixE/i). 

Swine,  prices  of,  see  Stocking  of 
Manors. 


Tackley,  co.  Oxon.,  N/viiiB/6. 
Taidene,  see  Theydon. 
Taillebois,      Albreda,  N(viiiA/2a; 
ixG/41). 

Tallage,  §  12;  43/viiiF;  44/viiiG. 
Tame,  see  Thame. 

Tanar',     Robt.     le,     42-43/viiO/39 ; 

44/viiO/98. 
Taplow       (Tappelawe),       42/ixH/2 ; 

N/viiiB/5  and  15. 

Tappelawe,  see  Taplow. 

Tedford,  see  Thetford. 

Teiden  (loc.  incert.),  N'/ixH/5. 

Telar',  Rog.,  35-40/viiB/ 13. 

Tempi',  Rich,  de,  35-36/vnB/3- 

Templars,  Knighthood  of  the. 
„    grant  to,  35-44/iiA/i ;  N/iiA/i. 
„    pardon  to,  35/vi/3 ;  35/vnC/ib; 
36/viiB/3;  36/vnH/4a; 
39/viiH/3;  39/viiM/9-io. 

Tenerchebrai,    Robt.    de,  36/ixA/iS; 
4o/xiiiB/7;  4i/xiiiD/7 ; 

42/xiiiH/7;  N/ixE/11;  at- 
tests, with  s.  Rah, 
N/xiiiD/20. 

Teregod,  Ralf,  42-44/viiO/3i. 

Thame  Abbey  ('lame),  co.  Oxon. 
,,    pardon  to,  37/VUL/2.  9 

Thame,  amerced,  44/viiP/7. 

Thetford  (Tedford).  co.  Suff. 
„    Jew  killed  at,  33/xC/I;  N/iC/i 


INDEX 


281 


They  don  (Taidene),  co.  Suff. 

Marg.  de,  44/viiP/i2. 
Thomley,  co.  Oxon.,  N/ixII/5. 
Thornborolgh     Torneberga.  Torne- 

beria),  4o/xiiiB/i3; 

4i/xiiiD/i3;  42/xiiiH/i3; 

43/xiiiK/i3;  44/xiiiM/i3; 

NyxiiiC/2. 
Thorncote  (Tornecota),  in  Northill. 
„    Rog.       s.       of       Warin  de, 

39-4o/viiM/i3. 
Thornton      (Torenton,  Torinton), 

43/iiE/ia;  44/viiP/io; 

N(iiE/i2;  ixG/41). 

Thurleigh,  N/ixA/16. 

Tickford  Priory,  N/viiiB/12. 

Tillbrook,  N/viiiC/i8g. 

Tilleio,  Ralf  de,  N/iiD/11. 

tinctor,      Adam      bro.      of  Walt., 

42-44/viiO/85. 
Tirell,  John,  42-44/viiO/65 ;  42/xi/8. 
Tiringeham,  see  Tyringham. 
Tiron,  Abbey  of  (in  Perche),  N/v/15. 
Tithing,  fine  on  the,  N/vii. 
Tivill        (Tieuiir),        Ralf  de, 

42-43/viiO/3o. 
Toddington    (Todingedon,  Tudinge- 

ton,     Tudinton),     35/V/8-16 ; 

40/xiiiC/i ;  4i/xiiiF/7; 

N/v/8. 
Gerard  de,  39-40/viiM/i. 

Todingedon,  see  Toddington. 
Toka,  35-39/ viiA/ 7,  N/viiA/7. 
Torenton,  Torinton,  see  Thornton. 
Torfeia,  see  Turvey. 
Torigny,  Robt.  of,  N/xiiiB. 
Torneberga,    Torneberia,    see  Thorn- 
borough. 
Tornecota,  see  Thorncote. 
Toulesland  [?  Toseland,  co.  Hunts.], 

40/1XC/7;  N/ixC/7. 
Trailly  (Traili,  Treisli). 

„    Nich.  de,  37-40/XA/5. 

„    Walt.  de,  4o/viiiC/i8; 

N/viiiC/i8y. 

,,    ---  de,  44/ixA/i6;  N/ixA/16. 

Travers,  Rog.,  ^i/xiiA/4. 

Treasure,  conveyance  of,  N(iiF/6, 
viiB/17,  viiiB/2). 

Treasurer,  §  2  ;  §  18. 

Treisli,  see  Trailly. 

Triket,  Will.,  42/xi/s. 

Trussebut,  Agatha,  44/ixH/io;  N(i ; 
ixH/19). 

Trussel,  Ric,  N/v/2. 

Tudinton,  Tudingeton,  see  Todding- 
ton. 

Turbert  (Tureburn),  42-43^110/41, 
^/viiO/QS. 


Turfeia,  see  Turvey. 

Turneham,    Steph.    de,    43/xiiiL/n  ; 

44(xiiiM/i  and  4;  xiiiN/2  and 
11);  N/xiiiL. 
Turri,  Robt.  de,  41/xiiiD/ie. 
Turvey  (Turfeia,  Torfeia). 
»    35/V/5;  N(v/5;  viiiC/i8y). 
,,    Steph.  de,  35-37/viiA/a. 
Turville  (Tureuille). 
„    familv  and  pedigree,  N(viiiB/i5; 

xA/x). 
„   fief,  N/viiiB/5. 
„    Isabel  de,  N/xA/i. 
„    Will,  de,  scut.,  36/viiiB/i5. 
,,     ,,    debt,  37-42/xA/i  and  2. 
,,     „    and  w.  Isabel,  42/ixH/2. 
Tyringham  (Tiringeham). 
„    Alewi  de,  35-37/viiB/i ;  N(viiB/i, 
viiiB/12). 


Upton  by  Dinton,  N/ixF/6. 
Upton  (loc.  incert.),  42/xiiiH/i. 

„    Edric  de,  42-44/viiO/5o. 

„    Geoff.        de,        39-4o/viiN/i3 ; 
N/ixG/9. 
Ursell  the  Jew,  see  Bedford. 
Uscarl,  see  Huscarle. 


Valeines,  Robt.  de,  42/ixG/27. 
„    Jord.    de,    42/ixG/32 ;    and  s. 
Robt.,  42/ixII/i. 
Valtrarius,  Biland,  35/iiC/2,  37/iii/a, 

N/iiC/2. 
Vantage  money,  §  8. 
venator,  Thos.,  37-44/iii/a. 
Verdon  (Verdun),  family  of,  N/ixA/19. 
Bertram  de,  36/ixA/i9; 

N/ixA/19. 
,,    Roheise  de,  N/xiiiD/20. 
„    Thos.    de,     relief,  4o-4i/ixD/6; 

N/ixD/6. 
,,    Will,  de,  37-40/VHL/15. 
Vere  (Ver),  pedigree,  N/viiIB/3. 
,,    Aubrey  de,  1st.  Earl  of  Oxford, 
his      scutage      36/viiiB/i4a ; 
4o/viiiC/i8;    N/viiiB/3  and 
14a. 

,,    Aubrey  de,  later  2nd.  Earl  of  Ox- 
ford, 36/viiJ  /i;  3Q-4o/ixC/3  ; 
43-44/xiiiII/22;  N/viiiB/3. 
,,      ,,    his       scutage,  ^6'viiiB/3; 
42/viiiD/i5;  ^2/viiil) / ig. 
Juliana,    sis.    of    Earl  Aubrey, 
N/viiiC/i8q.  * 
,,    Robert  de,  third  Earl,  N/viiiE/8. 
Will,  de,  pleas  before,  35-41/viiA. 


A.. 


282 


INDEX 


Vernon  (Vernun), 

39-4o/viiM/i9  -         40/ixD/i  ; 

N/ixD/i.  '  I 
Vesci,  Will,  de,  42-44/ixG/i. 
Vis     de     Loup      (Yisdelu),  John, 

36/viiiB/i4;  N/viiiB/14/. 
Vou,  Guy  de,  ^/xiiiM/ij. 
Vuinges,  see  Oving. 


Wach,  see  Wake. 
Waddesdon,  N/viiiC/iSh. 
Waddon,  Baldwin  de  42-44/VHO/3. 
Wade,  Turold,  38/xi/i. 
Wahull     (Wahella,     Wahilla),  mod. 
Odell. 

Albreda  de,  N/viiiA/aa. 
heir  of  Sim.  de,  42-43/1XF/4. 
„    Sim.   de,   scutage  36-44/ vjiiA/3 ; 

N(viiiA/3,  3a;  viiiC/3). 
„    Walt.  de.  scutage,  4o-43/viiiC/3 ; 
42/viiiE/i2;  N/viiiC/3. 
Wake  (Wac),  Alina,  N/ixC/5. 

„    Hugh,  40/vniC/iS;  N/viiiC/i8p. 
Wales,  Marches  of,  44/HE/15. 
Wallingford,  Honour  of;  Introduction 
to  Notes;  N(iv/5,  viiiC/*8H; 
ixG/1-36). 
„    Kts.         of,  42-44/1XQ/1-36; 

N/ixG/1-36. 
Walter,  35-39/viiF/i5. 
Walton,  Milo  de,  N/ziiiD/20. 
Wandoure,  see  Wendover. 
Wantage,       co.       Berks.,  N/iiD, 

N/iiD/12. 
Wardon  Abbey,  pardon  to,  35/VUF/3; 

37(viiK/2,       and       viiK/4) ; 
39/viiM/g. 
Wardon,     Honour     of,  N(viiiC/i6, 

viiiC/18  o). 
Warenne,  fee  of  Earl,  36/viiiB/i7. 
Edith      dau.     of     William  de, 

N/iiD/n. 
[Hamelin]     Earl,  4o/viiiC/i8; 
N/viiiC/i&g. 
Warin,  39/VUM/15. 
Warmington,         co.  Northants., 

N/viiiB/17. 
Warwick,  Ctess.  of,  4o/viiiC/i8. 
,,    Roger  Earl  of,  N/ixA/i. 
Waterperry,    co.     Oxon.,    see  Peri, 

Emma  de. 
Waudari,  Robt.  do,  N/viiM/5. 
Waudon  (loc.  incert.),  N/xiiiB. 
Wavendon  (Wauenden,   ?  Weuedon), 
36-4o/ixA/7;  N/ixA/7. 
,,    Elias  de.  36-40/ viiE/ 13. 
Weldebof  (Wellebuef),  N/ixB/3. 
„    Hugh  de,  37/ixB/3. 


WENDCVER    (Wendoura,  Wandoure), 

35-  44/iiD/io ;  40/xiiiB/io; 
41/xiiiF/l  ;  N(iiD;  iiU/11; 
viiB/7  ;  ixC/4  ;  xiiiB/10). 

Wengiave,  see  Wingrave. 
Westbukv      (Westbiri,  Westbiria), 
4o/xiiiB/i2 ;  4i(xiiiD/i2, 
xiiiD/16);  42/xiiiH/ 16  ; 

43/xiiiK/i6;  N(ixG/4i  ; 

xiiiO/16;  xiiiH). 
„  Ric.  de,  35-36/VUE/6. 
„    Walt,  de,  44/ixII/6;  N/ixG/41. 

Westcote,  co.  Bucks.,  N/viiiC/iSh. 
Westlingwrth,  ^ce  Wrestling  worth. 
Weston,  see  Westoning. 
Weston        Tukville,  N(viiiB/5; 
viiiB/15). 

Weston    Underwood,  N(viiiC/i8f; 
ixA/i). 

Westoning       (Weston),  35/v/I9'» 

36-  37/ixA/2;  N(v/23;  ixA/2). 
Weuedon,  sec  Wavendon. 
Weybridge,  co.  Surr.,  N/xiiiA/2. 
Whicstanes',  see  Wixamtree. 
Whitchurch      (Witcherche,  White- 

chierch),         42-44/xiiiH/23 ; 

43/xiiiK/23;  44/xiiiM/23. 
Whitefeld      (witefeld),      Hen.  de, 

42-44/ixG/5. 
Whiting  (Witting),  Will., 

42-44/viiO/4. 
Whitsand,  see  Wissant. 
Whittlewood   Forest,   co.  Northants., 

N/iv/4. 

Wicha  (Wica),  John  de,  42-44/ixG/i9- 
Wicstanestan,       Wictstanestr',  sec 

Wixamtree. 
Wicumba,  see  Wycombe. 
Wigginton,  co.  Herts.,  N/xiiiA/2. 
Wiham,  Cristina  de,  N/viiiB/i. 
Wika,  Matilda  de,  42-44/viiO/sS. 
Wilden        (Wildon),  4o/xiiiC/4; 

4i/xiiiE/4,         41/xiiiF/io) ; 

N/ixE/16. 
,,    Anchoress  of,  4i/xiiiE/4- 
Wileg',  Wilig*,  sec  Willen. 
Wilia,  see  Willey. 
Wilies  [?  Willen,  co.  Bucks.] 
,,    John  de,  42-44/ viiO/ 12. 
Willen  (Wyli,  Wily,  Wileg',  Wilig'). 

4i/xiiiD/2o;  42/xiiiH/2o; 

NfviiiB/12;  xiiiD/20). 
Rog.,  John,  and  Sim.  de,  attest 

N/xiiiD/20. 
Willey        (Wilia).        co.  Warws., 

37-  42/xA/l  ;  N/viiiB/15. 
William,  35/viiB/2. 


INDEX 


283 


Wilton,  Will,  de,  40-44/1x0/3. 
Winchester,     pardon     to     Bp.  of, 
35/viiG/4;  37/viiL/i. 
Treasure  of,  35/viiB/i7. 

Windr',  Windresores,  see  Windsor. 
Windsor       (Windr',  Windresores, 
Windlesor'). 
„    Castle,  ammunition  for,  3g/iiE/8. 
,,    castle  guard,  N/viiiB/9. 
family,  N/viiiB/i. 
Ric.  de,  36-38/ixA/ai. 
Walt.  de,  37-44/ixA/23 ; 

42-43/viiiD/i4  ;  36-38/viiiB/i  ; 
40/viiiC/iS;  42/viiiE/i5. 
„    Will.  de,  37-44/ ix  A/23; 

42/viiiD/i4;      36-44/viiiB/i  ; 
4o/viiiC/i8;  42/viiiD/lQ; 
42-44/ viiiE/y. 
Winemar    the    Fleming,    and  dau. 

Matilda,  N/viiiB/2. 
WlNGRAVE     (Wengrava),  4i/ixE/8; 

N(viiiB/Q,  ixE/8;  ixG/i). 
WTischard,        Will.,        37-44/viiK  l-x ; 

N/viiK/3. 
Wissant  (Witsant,  Witsand,  With- 
sand,  Whitsand)  in  the  Pas 
de  Calais. 
,,  Hospital  of  Santingfeld  or 
Wissant  35-44^  A/2,  iiD/3) ; 
35'37/iiD/2;  38/xiiA; 
40-44/xiiA;  N(iiA/2;  iiD/2 
and  3). 

Witcherche,  see  Whitchurch. 
Witefeld,  see  Whitefeld. 
Witsant,  Witsand,  Withsand,  see  Wis- 
sant 

Witting,  see  Whiting. 

Wixamtree    Hundred  (Wictstanestr', 

Wicstanestan,  Wixtonestre, 

Wichstanes',        Whicstanes') ; 

hundred  amerced,  35/viiF/3; 

37/yiiK/4;  39/VUM/9; 

42-44/V11O/27. 

Wixstonestre,  see  Wixamtree. 


Woburn  Abbey  ;  grant  to,  35-44/iiU/i  ; 

„    pardon  to,  35/viiG/6;  37/viiK/2. 
Woburn,  co.  Bucks.,  N/viiiC/iSz. 
Wodmundel,  Will,  de,  42/ixG/iS. 
Wokenton  (Woketon)  [  ?  Woughton]. 

Robt.  de,  42-43/viiO/i4. 
Wolyertox,  Baron v  of,  N/viiB/x6. 
Woolstoxe,  X/viiiB/12. 
Woottox  Underwood,  N/ixA/c. 
Woottox  (Wutton),  Pet.  de,  44/viiP/6. 

WORMIXGHALL,  X/ixfI/5. 
WORMSTON,  X/ixG/l. 

Wrestlingworth  (Westlingewurda, 
Wrabtlingwurda),  4o/xiiiC/7 
4i(xiiiE/j,  xiiiF/S,  xiiiG/6) 
42/xiiiJ/7;  43/xiiiK/7 
44/xiiiN/7;  N/xiiiC/7. 
tallaged,  43/\ iiiF /6. 
Wrocheshale,  see  Wroxhill. 
Wrocheswelle,  see  Wroxhill. 
Wroxhill     (Wrocheshale,  Wroches- 
welle) in  Marston  Moretaine, 
N/vi/4. 
Ralf  de,  35-4°/vi/4- 
„    Thos.  de,  35-4o/vi/4; 

35-40/ viiD/6. 

Wutton,  see  Wootton. 

Wycombe       (Wicumbaj,  N(ixG/i, 
ixH/i). 

Ansgot  de,  and  w.,  35-44/viiB/7  ; 

N/viiB/7. 
,,    Ansketil  de,  N/viiB/7. 
,,    Geoff,  s.  of  Ansgot  de,  42/ixG/23, 

N/viiB/7. 
„    tallaged,  43-44/viiiF/g, 

44/'viiiG/2. 
„    Walder  de,  38-44/XC/2. 

Wymington,  N/viiiC/4. 


Yielden,  N/viiiC/i8y. 


9 


PRINTED    BY  THE 
SIDNEY  PRESS 
IN  BEDFORD 


Contents. 

CALENDAR  Or  THE  PIPE  ROLLS  OF  THE  REH 
OF  RICHARD  I.  FOR  BUCKINGHAMSHIRE  AND 
BEDFORDSHIRE 

By  G.  Herbert' Fowler  and  Michael  \V.  Hughes. 


Prices  of  octavo 

To  Members.:  As  current, 
postage 

To  NonO-i  embers  :  A< 
volume,'  15/-  and  postage. 

PRICE  OF  QU: 
To  .Members  :  30/-  an 


VOLUMES  I  TO  VH. 
free;  as  back  volume,  10/6  an; 

rr>£    i  %J—  and  o<~>  -*a.o"/*  *  a.s  bac 
MiBMOIR;  VOL.  I. 


To  N 


