he  Manors 
of  Suffolk 


COPINGER 


VOL.  III. 


The 


Manors    of  Suffolk 


Notes 


on 


Their  History  and  Devolution 

The  Hundreds  of  Carlford  and  Colneis,  Cosford  and 

Hartismere 

With  some  Illustrations  of  the  Old  Manor  Houses 


BY 

W.  A.  COPINGER,  M.A.,  LL.D.,  F.S.A.,  F.R.S.A. 


Of  the  Middle  Temple,  Barrister-at-law,  Professor  and  Dean  of  the  Faculty  of  Law  in  the 

Victoria  University  of  Manchester,  Sometime  President  of  the  Bibliographical  Society,  Author  of 

"County of  Suffolk  :  Its  History  as  Disclosed  by  Existing  Records,"  &c. 


VOL.  3. 


Privately  Printed 
and  obtainable  only  by  Subscribers 

from 

TAYLOR,   GARNETT,    EVANS,   &    CO.,    LTD. 
MANCHESTER 
I  909 


CARLFORD  AND  COLNE1S  HUNDRED. 


SAXTON, 
1576. 

1jm      -, 


SPEED, 
1610. 


BOWEN, 
777. 


THE 


MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 


CARLFORD  AND  COLNEIS  HUNDREDS. 


JARLFORD  Hundred  is  of  an  irregular  figure,  about  10 
miles  in  length  from  north  to  south,  and  from  4  to  6  miles 
in  breadth.  It  is  bounded  on  the  south  by  Colneis  Hundred, 
on  the  east  by  Woodbridge,  the  River  Deben  and 
Wilford  Hundred,  on  the  north  by  Loes  Hundred,  and  on 
the  west  by  Bosmere  and  Claydon  Hundred  and  the 
Borough  of  Ipswich.  It  is  in  the  Deanery  of  Carlford,  Arch- 
deaconry of  Suffolk,  and  Woodbridge  Union. 

The  southern  part  of  it,  extending  from  the  bounds  of  Ipswich  to 
Woodbiidge  and  the  River  Deben,  has  generally  a  light  sandy  soil  and  several 
open  heaths,  but  in  its  northern  parts  a  rich  loam  prevails,  and  there  is  a 
strip  of  rich  marsh  land,  and  in  former  days  it  had  several  hop  yards  on  its 
southern  boundary  in  the  valley  extending  eastward  from  Bixley  Decoy 
Ponds,  near  Ipswich,  to  Kii  ton  Sluice  on  the  River  Deben.  It  contains 
27.539  acres. 

Colneis  Hundred  is  one  of  the  smallest  divisions  of  Suffolk,  being 
only  from  4  to  5  miles  in  breadth,  but  extending  about  10  miles  south- 
east from  the  Liberty  of  Ipswich  along  the  north-east  bank  of  the  River 
Orwell  to  the  ocean,  where  it  terminates  in  the  cliffs  of  Felixstowe,  Walton, 
and  Landguard  Fort.  It  is  bounded  on  the  north  by  Carlford  Hundred, 
on  the  west  by  the  Orwell  and  the  Liberty  of  Ipswich,  on  the  south  by  the 
German  Ocean,  and  on  the  east  by  the  river  Deben,  which  separates  it  from 
the  Hundred  of  Wilford. 

We  have  treated  of  the  two  Hundreds  together ;  Carlford  is  divided  into 
18  parishes,  and  Colneis  into  10.  The  fee  of  both  Hundreds  is  in  the  King. 
Together  these  Hundreds  have  64  manors,  as  follows  :  — 


Parishes. 

Manors. 

Parishes. 

Manors. 

Bealings 
(Great) 

Bealings 

/T   Jiil^N 

(Great  Bealings. 
(Seckford  Hall. 

Little  Bealings. 

Clop  ton  

Clopton  Hall  al. 
King's  Hall. 
Brendhall. 
Rouse  Hall. 

^.Littiej 
Bright  well  

Bucklesham  .  . 

) 
Brightwell. 

Bucklesham. 
Kembroke. 
Tyrell's  Hall. 

/  Burgh  Hall. 
1  Thistleden  Hall 

Culpho  

Wascolies   al.    Wes- 
terlyes  (olim  Naun- 
ton's). 

Culpho  al.   Verdons 
and  Wachesham. 
Abbots    or     Culpho 

Burgh 

jCleeve'sa/.  Blom- 
(     villes. 

Abba  us       or     \,. 
.     Regis. 

THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 


Falkenham    . 
F^lixstowe    . 

Foxhall 

Grundisburgh 
Hasketon  . 


Hemley 

Kesgrave   . . . 


Kirton   

Levington  . . . 

Martlcsham 


Nacton 


Newboxun  . . . 
Otley 


Uanon 


t  Falkenham    or  Fal 
kenham  Dodnash. 
(Russell's. 

Felixstowe. 

(Foxhall  al.  Caswell's 
Foxhall. 
(Felton's. 

Grundisburgh  Hall. 

(Hasketon  Hall. 
'Thorpe  Hall. 
(The  Rectory. 

Helmley. 

Kesgrave    or    Tud- 

chn  ham's. 

Kirk  ton  or  Kirton. 
Burnaville's. 

fMartlesham  Hall. 
i  Scots. 
(Hethe's. 

Brokes  Hall  al.  Cow- 
haugh  al.  Cow 
Hall. 

Sholand  or  Sholland 
Hall  or  Tame. 

I  Purdies  or  Purdews 

St.  Peter's. 

(Alnesbourn. 

Newbourn-cum- 

Martlesham. 
^Haspley  with  New- 
bourn. 

(Overhall. 
iNetherhall. 


Parithw. 


Playford    . . 
Rushmere  . 


Trimley  St. 
Martin 


Trimley  St. 

Mary. 


Tuddenham 


Waldringfield 


Walton 


Witnesham 


Playford  or  Playford 
H.withMitchelis. 
Meer  or  Mere  Hall. 
Lees. 

(Rushmere  Hall. 
I  Bixley. 

Grimston  Hall  with 

Morston. 
Morston  Hall. 
Capel  or  Capel  Hall. 
Stratton    Hall    cum 

Seabridge. 

Trimley   St.  Mary's, 
Candelent   or 
Candlett      or 
Fourthe. 

Blowfield. 

Alteston    now    with 
Trimley. 

/Tuddenham  or  Loud - 

ham  Hall. 
St.  Bartholomew's  or 

Bertilmemes. 

|  Waldringfield   al. 

Waldringfield- 

Hilton. 
Rivershall. 
(Walton. 
\  Caldecote. 
(Langeston. 

Burwash. 

Curdon's  or  Cardew's 

Hall. 
Redhall  al.  Bramp- 

ton  al.  Bromton. 


DEALINGS  (GREAT). 


DEALINGS  (GREAT). 

N  Saxon  times  Ulmar,  a  freeman  under  Halden,  the  predeces- 
sor of  Geoffrey  de  Magnaville,  held  a  man  with  100  acres  in 
demesne,  and  Ulmar  himself  had  under  him  3  villein  tenants. 
In  demesne  there  were  2  ploughteams,  and  belonging 
to  the  men  i,  and  3  acres  of  meadow,  2  rouncies,  4  beasts, 
16  hogs,  and  80  sheep,  valued  at  2os.  Also  a  church  with 
40  acres,  valued  at  40^.  The  Abbot  of  Ely  had  the  soc. 
By  the  time  of  the  Norman  Survey  the  value  of  the  manor  had  risen  to 
405.,  but  there  had  been  a  general  decrease  in  the  appurtenances  of  the 
manor  all  round.  There  was  but  I  ploughteam  in  demesne  ;  3  beasts, 
12  hogs,  and  60  sheep,  and  the  only  increase  was  in  i  rouncy.  The 
manor  was  held  by  Hervey  of  Bourges  as  tenant  in  chief.' 

Amongst  the  lands  held  by  this  Hervey  of  Bourges  in  Bealings  we  find 
another  holding.  He  held  in  demesne  10  freemen— Blackman,  Alwin, 
Stannard,  Ana,  Aluric,  Turbot,  Edric,  Godwin,  Alston,  and  Annud  the  priest, 
and  of  the  last  Halden  had  commendation,  and  of  the  others  the  Abbot 
of  Ely.  They  had  84  acres  and  2  ploughteams  and  7  acres  of  meadow, 
valued  at  205.  In  the  time  of  the  Confessor  there  had  been  4  plough- 
teams.2 

Amongst  the  lands  of  Robert  Malet  we  find  one  Woolnough  with  14 
acres,  having  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  i  ploughteam  and  half  an  acre 
of  meadow,  valued  at  2s.,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  28d.* 

GREAT  BEALINGS  MANOR. 

In  more  recent  times  there  were  two  manors  in  Great  Bealings,  the 
principal  lordship  and  that  of  Seckford  Hall  Manor.  The  former  held 
by  Hervey  de  Bourges  passed  to  Gilbert  de  Peche,  and  was  held  by  Sir  Hugh 
de  Peche  in  the  time  of  Edward  I. ;  for  in  1285  Sir  Hugh  had  a  grant  of 
free  warren  here/  and  dying  in  1292*  was  succeeded  by  another  Hugh  de 
Peche,  who  died  about  1310,*  and  was  succeeded  by  Eva  his  sister,  wife  of 
Sir  Robert  de  Tuddenham,  son  of  Sir  John  de  Tuddenham  by  Lady  Joan 
Charles,  his  wife.  Sir  Robert  died  about  1308,  and  his  widow  Eva  in  1311, 7 
when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Robert  de  Tuddenham,  who 
married  Catherine,  daughter  of  John  de  Patshull,  and  sister  and  coheir  of 
William  de  Patteshall  or  Patshull,  of  Northamptonshire,  and  died  about  1352, a 
leaving  his  widow,  who  survived  till  1383,  for  this  is  the  date  of  her  will, 
which  was  proved  i6th  June  the  same  year.  Their  eldest  son,  Robert, 
died  a  minor  in  1337,"  and  the  manor  passed  to  his  cousin,  Sir  Robert  de 
Tuddenham,  son  of  Thomas  de  Tuddenham.  Sir  Robert  de  Tuddenham 
died  in  1362,  when  he  was  succeeded  by  his  son,  Sir  John  de  Tuddenham, 
who  was  a  minor  at  the  time  of  his  father's  death,  and  consequently  the 
King  twice  presented  to  the  living  of  the  church  by  reason  of  his  having  the 
custody  of  the  lands  during  minority.10 

Sir  John  was  Sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  in  1383.  He  married 
Margaret,  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  (and  sister  and  coheir  of  Sir  John)  Wey- 
land,  and  widow  of  Sir  Thomas  de  Graunison. 


1  Dom.  ii.  4416,  442. 
2Dom.  ii.  4416,  442. 

3  Dom.  ii.  3156. 

4  Chart.  Rolls,  13  Edw.  I.  126. 

5 1. P.M.,  Extent,  20  Edw.  I.  37. 
6I.P.M.,4Edw.  II.  31. 


'I.P.M.,  5  Edw.  II.  43. 

"See    Manor    of    Eriswell,  in    Lackford 

Hundred. 

9I.P.M.,  ii  Edw.  III.  (2nd  nos.)  no. 
10  Pat.  Rolls,  15  Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  38 ;    17 

Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  7. 


4  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

In  1385,  Sir  John  de  Tuddenham  and  Margaret  his  wife  were  parties  to  a 
fine  levied  in  respect  of  this  and  the  Manors  of  Grundisburgh,  Sutton,  and 
Newton  juxta  Ipswich,  by  Hugh  Hovel.1  Sir  John  de  Tuddenham  died  in 
1392,  and  by  his  will  dated  at  Kediton  desired  to  be  buried  in  the  chancel 
of  the  church  of  Eriswell,  of  which  place  and  of  Kediton,  Healings,  Newton, 
Grundisburgh,  Gorton,  and  Lound  he  was  lord.  His  widow  Margaret 
died  in  1416,  and  her  will  was  proved  I5th  June,  1416,  by  which  she  desired 
to  be  buried  in  the  church  of  the  Augustine  Friars  at  Thetford,  by  the  tomb 
of  her  daughter  Elizabeth,  the  wife  of  Sir  Thomas  Hemgrave.  Sir  John 
had  issue  two  sons  and  a  daughter— John  de  Tuddenham,  who  married  in  1378 
and  died  without  issue ;'  Elizabeth,  married  to  Robert  Fitz  Ralph  ;  and  Sir 
Robert  de  Tuddenham,  who  married  Margaret,  daughter  of  John  Herling, 
widow  of  Thomas  Misterton,  and  died  in  his  father's  lifetime,  leaving  issue 
two  sons  and  two  daughters,  Robert  de  Tuddenham,  who  died  without  issue  in 
1417,'  and  Sir  Thomas  who  married  Alice,  daughter  of  John  Wodehouse. 
Thf  marriage  was  entered  into  by  Sir  Thomas  before  he  came  of  age,  and 
in  1436, on  a  full  hearing  of  the  cause  at  Lynn,  before  the  Chancellor  of 
Norwich,  the  Prior  of  Lynn,  &c.,  he  was  divorced  from  his  wife  on  proof  and 
her  own  confession  of  adultery.  She  had  before  this  left  him,  and  was  at 
that  time  a  nun  professed  at  Crabhouse,  in  Wigenhale,  in  Norfolk.  He  was 
empowered  to  marry  again.  The  close  of  his  life  was  equally  unfortunate 
with  its  opening,  for  in  1461  John,  Earl  of  Oxford,  Aubrey,  his  son  and  heir, 
Sir  Thomas  Tuddenham,  John  Clopton,  John  Montgomery,  and  William 
Tyrell,  were  arrested  by  John,  Earl  of  Worcester,  Constable  of  England,  on 
suspicion  of  having  received  letters  from  Margaret,  wife  of  Hen.  VI.,  and 
being  convicted  were  all  beheaded  (except  Clopton)  on  Tower  Hill,  22nd 
Feb.  1461.'  He  died  without  issue,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  sister 
Margaret,  then  the  widow  of  Sir  Edmund  Bedingfield.  She  died  seised  of 
the  manor  in  1474.'  Her  will  bears  date  24th  May,  1474.° 

On  the  death  of  Margaret  Bedingfield7  the  manor  passed  to  her 
grandson,  Sir  Edmund  Bedingfield,  son  of  Thomas.8  Edmund  Beding- 
field married  1st  Alice,  daughter  of  Sir  Ralph  Shelton,  by  whom  he  had  no 
male  issue,  and  2ndly,  Margaret,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Scot,  of  Scots  Hall, 
in  Kent,  and  Comptroller  of  Calais.  On  the  coronation  of  Rich.  III.  he 
was  created  a  Knight  of  the  Bath,  and  was  so  highly  esteemed  by  Hen.  VII. 
that  he  became  the  recipient  of  various  grants  of  the  estates  forfeited  by  the 
Lord  Lovell.  His  will  is  dated  Calais,  I2th  Oct.  1496,  and  was  proved 
28th  January  following.  His  eldest  son  and  successor,  Sir  Thomas  Beding- 
field, died  I5th  March,  1538,  without  issue,9  and  his  next  brother,  Robert, 
being  in  holy  orders,  the  manor  passed  to  the  3rd  brother,  Sir  Edmund,  who 
attended  Hen.  VIII.  in  his  wars  abroad,  and  was  knighted  by  Charles 
Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  while  General  of  the  English  army  at  Montdidier, 
in  France,  on  the  taking  of  that  town  in  1523.  He  married  Grace,  daughter 
of  Lord  Marny,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son,  Sir  Henry  Bedingfield. 

|  Feet  of  Fines,  8  Rich.  II.  8.  5 1.P.M.  15  Edw.  IV.  38. 

1 A  Sir  John  Tuddenham  died  seised  of  the  6  For  her  Will  see  Manor  of  Eriswell  in 

manor  in  1422  (I. P.M.,  10  Hen.  V.  Lackford  Hundred. 

266):   and    Margery,  wife  of  John  '  I. P.M.,  15  Edw.  IV.  38. 

Tuddenham,  died   seised   of   same  g  See  Brandeston  Manor,  in  Loes  Hundred. 

and  the  advowson  in  1460  (I. P.M.,  »  I. P.M.,  31  Hen.  VIII.  5.      See,  however, 

38  Hen.  VI.).  Hestely   Manor,    in    Thorndon,    in 

I.P.M..  5  Hen.  V.  43.  Hartismere  Hundred. 

4  Pat.  Roll*,  i  Edw.  IV.  pt.  hi.  18  ;  I.P.M. 

5  Edw.  IV.  34. 


BEALINGS  (GREAT).  5 

Edmund  Bedingfield  in  1585  sold  the  manor  to  John  Clench,  a  Justice  of 
Queen's  Bench.1  He  was  appointed  Justice  2Qth  May,  1584.  When  a 
young  man  he  was  steward  of  the  manors  of  Henry  Crane,  who,  for  his 
able  services  granted  him  for  life  a  lease  of  an  estate  in  Crowfield  for  £100 
a  year  less  than  its  value,  upon  condition  that  he  did  not  assign  it  to  anyone. 
This  induced  the  Judge  many  years  after  he  attained  that  position  to  reside 
at  Crowfield,  and  he  remained  there  until  he  purchased  the  estate  at  Hoi- 
brook.  He  died  igth  Aug.  1607,"  and  was  succeeded  in  this  lordship  by 
his  2nd  son,  John  Clench.  He  married  Joan,  daughter  and  sole  heir  of 
Robert  Holme,  of  Wyverstone,  widow  of  John  Pretyman,  of  Bacton  (she 
died  ist  Dec.  1629),  and  died  4th  April,  1628,  at  the  age  of  68,  when  the 
manor  passed  to  his  4th  son,  Edmund  Clench.3  Edmund  Clench  died  in 
1679,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Edmund,  who  sold  the  manor  to  Dr. 
Thomas  Wood,  Bishop  of  Lichfield  and  Coventry,  from  whom  it  passed 
by  will  dated  1690  to  his  nephew,  Henry  Webb,  at  whose  death,  i3th 
January,  1709,  it  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry  Webb.  In  1710  the 
manor  was  disposed  of  under  an  Act  of  Parliament  for  discharging  the 
debts  of  Henry  Wood  al.  Webb,  being  sold  to  John  Pitt,  of  Crows  Hall,  in 
Debenham.4  It  was  bought  fiom  Pitt's  heir  by  James  Bridges.  On 
Bridges's  death,  the  manor  went  to  his  widow,  Lady  Jane,  who  sold  it  to 
Sir  John  Major.  He  died  in  1781,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  daughter 
Anne,  married  to  Sir  John  Henniker,  created  Lord  Henniker,  from  which 
time  it  has  descended  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Gt.  Thornham,  in 
Hartismere  Hundred. 

Page  mentions  that  the  hall  some  years  after  the  purchase  by  Bridges, 
became  the  residence  of  the  farmer  of  the  estate,  and  was  at  length  pulled 
down  by  Sir  John  Henniker,  Bart.,  who  at  that  period  was  the  owner  of  the 
property. 

SECKFORD  HALL  MANOR. 

The  second  manor,  a  Seckford  Hall,  has  a  separate  heading  in  the 
Domesday  Survey,  being  under  the  head  "  Seckford." 

Aluric,  son  of  Ulviet,  under  commendation  to  Harold,  held  in  the 
Confessor's  day  2  carucates  of  land  a?  a  manor.  There  were  4  villein  tenants, 
13  bordar  tenants,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne,  and  a  third  which  might  be 
made  up  if  occasion  required,  and  3  also  belonging  to  the  men,  10  acres 
of  meadow,  i  mill,  i  rouncy,  4  beasts,' 30  hogs,  and  100  sheep.  The  value 
was  then  £4,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  there  were  two  more  bordai 
tenants,  no  rouncy,  20  hogs,  and  only  36  sheep.  The  length  of  the  holding 
was  6  quarantenes  and  the  breadth  6,  and  it  paid  in  a  gelt  j\d.  The  tenant 
in  chief  was  the  Bishop  of  Bayeux,  and  the  manor  was  one  of  those  Earl 
Ralph  held  at  the  time  of  his  forfeiture.5  The  Bishop  of  Bayeux  also  held 
here  4  freemen  under  commendation  to  the  said  Aluric,  with  8  acres,  i 
acre  of  meadow,  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  i6d.,  which  Roger  Bigot 
at  the  time  of  the  Survey  held  of  the  Bishop.  6 

1  Fine,  Hil.  27  Eliz.  rebels  and  usurpers  for  his  own 

'  For  account  of  himsee  Holbrook  Manor,  estate,  which  was  £1,200  a  year  in  the 

in  Samford  Hundred.  time  of  Chas.  I.  This  family  after- 

'Gipps  says  that  this  John  Clench  died  wards  removed  to  Botsham,  in 

without     issue,     whereupon     "  the  Cambridgeshire,  where  they  are  now 

estate  came  to  Capt.   Clench,  who  seated." 

was  a  gallant  officer  and  served  his  *  9  Anne,  H.L.  Journals  xix.  230,  242,  243, 

King   and  country   faithfully,  but  245,  264,  268,  285,  301. 

suffered  with  his  King  and  country,  5  Dom.  ii.  373. 

and  was  forced  to  compound  with  6/6. 


6  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

In  1185  Bartholomew  de  Seckford,  son  of  William  de  Seckford,  held 
the  manof,'  and  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  de  Seckford.  He 
married  Anne,  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  Walter  (or  Sir  Peter)  le  Vernon  als. 
Hunt.i 

On  John  de  Secktord's  death,  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Sir  John  de  Seckford,  who  married  Joan,  eldest  daughter  and  coheir 
of  Sir  William  Hackford,  or,  as  some  say,  daughter  and  heir  of  Thomas,  son 
of  Sir  Thomas  de  Hackford.  On  their  death,  the  manor  passed  to  their  son 
and  heir,  Sir  John  de  Seckford.  who  was  living  at  Great  Bealings  in  1359. 
In  1331  he  became  entitled  in  right  of  his  mother  to  Hackford  or  Hakeford 
Hall  Manor,  in  West  Herling,  co.  Norfolk,  and  in  1334  had  a  grant  of  free 
warren  in  Seckfoid  Manor.1 

He  married  Alice,  and  was  dead  in  1372,  when  the  manor  was  held  by 
his  son  and  heir,  Sir  George  de  Seckford. 

He,  in  1401,  settled  the  lordship  on  Margaret  his  wife,  daughter  and 
heir  of  Sir  Thomas  Jenney,  Knt.,  who,  after  the  death  of  Sir  George,  re- 
married Augustine  Stratton,  of  Shottery,  and  this  property  passed  to  Sir 
George's  son,  Seckford. 

He  married1  Alice,  daughter  of  Thomas  Rokes,  of  Ridlesworth,  in 
Norfolk,  and  died  in  1450,  leaving  a  widow  (who  remarried  Sir  Henry 
Wingfield,  Knt.,  of  Orford,  6th  son  of  Sir  Robert  and  Elizabeth  Gowsell) 
and  a  son,  Thomas,  who  succeeded. 

Thomas  Seckford  married  ist  Margaret,  daughter  of  John  Purrye,  of 
Aylesham,  co.  Norfolk,  and  2ndly,  Elizabeth. 

He  died  23rd  Nov.  1505,  and  was  buried  at  Great  Bealings,  leaving 
Thomas  Seckford,  of  Seckford  Hall,  his  son  and  heir,  who  married  Margaret,4 
daughter  of  Sir  John  Wingfield,  of  Letheringham,  Knt.  Thomas  Seckford 
represented  the  borough  of  Orford  in  several  Parliaments,  and  dying  aoth 
Sept.  1575,  aged  80,  was  interred  in  the  parish  church  of  Great  Bealings, 
where  a  monument  remains  to  his  memory. 

Thomas  Seckford  was  followed  by  his  grandson,  Charles  Seckford, 
Thomas's  eldest  son,  Francis,  who  married  Ellen,  daughter  of  Thomas 
Whittington,  of  Newbury,  co.  Stafford,  having  died  in  his  father's  lifetime. 

Charles  Seckford  married  at  Framlingham,  nth  Oct.,  1575,  Mary, 
daughter  of  Thomas  Steyning,  of  Earl  Soham,  by  Frances  his  wife,  Countess 
Dowager  of  Surrey,  daughter  of  John  Vere,  Earl  of  Oxford.  He  repre- 
sented Aldeburgh  in  Parliament  in  1572,  and  died  2oth  Feb.  1591-2,  aged 
37,  being  interred  in  the  family  vault  in  Woodbridge  Church.  His  widow 
Mary  succeeded  to  a  life  estate  in  the  manor,  and  amongst  the  Chancery 
Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  will  be  found  an  action  for 
account  by  her  against  Richard  Fysher  as  to  Seckford  and  Bough  Manor.5 

On  the  death  of  Mary  Seckford  in  August,  1596,'  Sir  Thomas  Seckford, 
son  of  Charles,  born  2oth  April,  and  baptised  3Oth  April,  1582,  at  Great 
Bealings,  succeeded.  He  was  knighted  at  Newmarket  5th  March,  1607.  He 
married  Anne,  daughter  of  William  Brewster,  of  Castle  Hedingham,  in  Essex, 
and  widowpf  Robert  Kirkby,of  Henham,  co.  Essex,  and  died,  and  was  buried 
at  Woodbridge,  I5th  Aug.  1610,  leaving  Thomas  Seckford  his  only  surviving 

'  Rot.  Pipe  1185.  <  She  died  2gth  Oct.  1557,  aged  64. 

'Chart.  Rolls,  8  Edw.  III.  50.  ' C.P.  iii.  58. 

•The   Visitation  of    1561   says  Margaret,  6 She  was  buried  at  Woodbridge,  24th  Aug. 
daughter  of  Goldingham.  1596. 


BEALINGS  (GREAT).  7 

son,  then  two  years  of  age,  he  having  been  baptised  at  Woodbridge,  I5th 
March,  1608. 

This  young  man  died  26th  June,  1624,  while  a  student  at  Trinity 
College,  Cambridge,  aged  16,  and  lies  buried  in  the  chapel  there  under  a 
handsome  monument  erected  to  his  memory  by  his  uncle,  Henry  Seckford, 
who,  on  failure  of  issue  male  of  his  brother  Thomas,  became  seised  of  the 
manor.  He  was  born  I5th  Aug.,  and  baptised  at  Great  Bealings,  ist  Sept. 
1584.  He  married  at  Woodbridge,  2Oth  Oct.  1614,  Bridget,  daughter  of 
Robert  Kirkby,  and  died  without  issue,  being  buried  at  Woodbridge,  29th 
May,  1626.  The  manor  passed  to  his  cousin,  Henry  Seckford,  of  Clerkenwell, 
Master  of  the  Pavilion  to  James  I.  This  Henry  was  son  of  Thomas  Seckford 
and  Catherine  his  wife,  daughter  of  George  Metham,  of  Lincolnshire,  which 
Thomas  was  son  of  John  Seckford,  of  Great  Bealings,  who  was  married  there 
23rd  Jan.  1547,  to  Agnes,  daughter  of  Cramwell,  of  Cramwell  Hall,  co. 
Lincoln,  and  buried  at  Little  Bealings,  6th  July ,1581  (his  wife  having  been 
buried  at  Great  Bealings,  26th  April,  10  years  earlier),  which  John  was  a 
younger  brother  of  Francis  Seckford,  the  great-grandfather  of  Thomas 
Seckford  who  died  in  1624.  Henry  Seckford  supported  his  claim  as  heir 
male,  and  sued  out  his  livery  in  1629. 

He  suffered  a  recovery,  and  being  seised  in  fee  settled  the  estate  on 
himself  and  Dorothy,  his  second  wife,  daughter  of  Sir  Henry  North,  of 
Mildenhall,1  and  their  heirs,  but  died  in  1638  without  male  issue. 

His  two  daughters  were  Rebecca,  who  married  Robert  Kirkeby,  and 
died  without  issue,  and  Sarah,  who  married  at  Gt.  Bealings,  i3th  April, 
1631,  Charles  Drury,  of  Rougham,  by  whom  she  had  issue,  Seckford  Drury, 
baptised  at  Rongham,  I5th  April,  1632,  and  buried  there  3ist  March,  1634, 
and  Dorothy  Drury,  buried  at  Rougham,  an  infant,  I4th  March,  1633. 
Sarah's  2nd  husband  was  John,  2nd  son  of  Dudley,  3rd  Lord  North,  to 
whom  she  was  married  at  Kirtling,  2oth  July,  1634,  but  by  him  she  had  no 
issue. 

Henry  Seckford's  widow,  Dorothy,  held  her  first  court  i5th  Jan.  1638, 
and  died  at  Seckford  Hall  in  1673.  She  devised  the  estate  to  Seckford 
Cage,  the  heir-general  of  the  Seckfords,  being  a  descendant  of  Sir  Anthony 
Cage,  of  Long  Stowe,  co.  Camb.,who  had  married  Mary,  sole  heir  of  her 
brother  Thomas  Seckford,  who  died  in  1624.  Seckford  Cage  mortgaged 
and  subsequently  sold  the  manor  to  Samuel  Atkinson,  of  Croydon,  co. 
Surrey,  by  deed  2nd  Nov.  1713,  and  a  fine  levied  Mich.  Term,  12  Anne. 
One  Henry  Norton  held  a  court  2oth  May,  1673,  but  this  may  have  been 
as  a  representative  of  Dorothy  Seckford  ;  for  Samuel  Atkinson  certainly 
held  a  court  13 th  Oct.  1707. 

It  seems,  however,  that  the  King  granted  to  George  Kirke  all  that 
belonged  to  the  Crown  of  demesne  of  Henry  Seckford,  on  his  death  without 
heirs,  for  there  is  a  petition  from  George  Kirke  for  rectification  of  this 
grant  amongst  the  State  Papers  in  1663,  and  the  petition  was  granted.2 

Still  it  is  clear  that  Samuel  Atkinson  died  seised  in  1718.  By  his 
will  dated  6th  Feb.  1716,  he  directs  that  after  the  death  of  his  wife  Mary 
and  default  of  all  issue,  the  manor  shall  go  to  his  cousin,  Samuel  Atkinson 
(son  of  his  late  cousin,  Samuel  Atkinson,  deceased,  who  was  son  of  his  late 

1  Her  will  is  dated  igth  June,  1672,  and  she         *  State  Papers,  1663,  102. 
was    buried     at    Woodbridge,    8th 
April,  1673. 


8  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

brother,  John  Atkinson),  in  fee.  The  will  was  proved  with  a  codicil  London, 
loth  Jan.  1718.  Mary,  the  widow,  actually  had  a  life  estate  in  the  manor 
unt'cr  a  settlement  made  2Oth  Dec.  1709,  pursuant  to  articles  before  marriage 
dated  2Oth  April,  1706.  Settlor  and  testator  was  succeeded  accordingly 
by  his  widow  Mary,  who  held  courts  28th  April,  1736,  and  I5th  Aug. 
1738,  and  she  was  succeeded  by  her  husband's  great-nephew,  Samuel 
Atkinson,  in  1746.  He  held  a  court  I3th  June,  1746,  and  died  in  1773, 
leaving  the  manor  by  his  will  dated  ist  July,  1772,'  to  his  cousin,  Elizabeth 
Rolph,  spinster,  who  married  ist  Thomas  Wilkinson,  of  Croydon,  and 
secondly  George  Thompson.  She  made  a  settlement  dated  5th  and  6th 
May,  1774, on  her  first  marriage,  by  which  this  manor  was  limited  after  her 
own  lite  interest  to  Thomas  Wilkinson  for  life,  and  then  in  tail  male  with 
remainder  to  daughters  equally,  and  in  default  to  such  persons  as  the  settlor 
should  by  will  appoint. 

Thomas  Wilkinson  died  3rd  Feb.  1775,  without  issue,  and  a  few  days 
afterwards  Elizabeth,  being  a  widow,  made  her  will  dated  I7th  Feb.  1775, 
whereby  she  devised  the  manor  to  her  trustees,  Oliver  Bacon  and  William 
McPheadris,  upon  trust  to  sell  and  divide  the  proceeds  between  her  brother, 
Samuel  Rolph,  and  her  sisters.  The  two  trustees  appointed  by  settlement 
held  a  court  nth  Sept.  1775.  Elizabeth  then  takes  as  a  second  husband 
George  Thompson,  and  by  indenture  4th  Oct.  1775,  again  settles  the  manor. 
Two  months  later,  on  27th  Dec., she  died  without  issue,  leaving  John  Rolph, 
her  eldest  brother,  her  heir-at-law.  The  will  was  proved  and  April,  1776, 
by  Oliver  Bacon,  and  7th  Aug.  1800,  by  George  Thompson.  The  trusts 
of  the  will  and  of  a  codicil  were  established  by  a  decree  of  the  Court  of 
Chancery,  29 th  April,  1784,  and  though  the  parties  interested  did  by  an 
agreement  dated  27th  March,  1804,  arrange  to  divide  the  property  without 
sale,  still  subsequent  proceedings  in  regard  to  the  separate  shares  ultimately 
resulted  in  the  manor  being  sold.  Pursuant  to  a  decree  of  the  Court  of 
Chancery,  the  Manor  and  Hall  were  offered  for  sale  by  public  auction  at 
Ipswich,  3ist  July,  1832.  Lot  I  was  Seckford  Hall  and  Cherry  Garden 
Estates  of  441  acres,  and  the  manor  formed  another  lot.  This  extended 
over  several  hundred  acres.  There  were  stated  to  be  27  copyhold  tenants 
and  8  freehold.  The  average  amount  of  fines  and  quit  rents  for  seven  years 
ending  Mich.  1833,  was  £77  per  annum.  Lot  i  was  purchased  by  James 
Morrison,  of  Upper  Harley  Street,  M.P.,  for  £10,100,  plus  timber  valued 
at  £1,122.  i8s.  3d.,  and  conveyed  to  him  by  indentures  dated  iath  and  I3th 
July,  1833.  The  Manor  of  Seckford  was  purchased  by  John  Wood  for 
£2,100,'  and  he  held  a  court  6th  Aug.  1838.  In  1844  the  manor  was  vested 
in  George  Moor,  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds.3  By  1885  the  Seckford  Hall  estate 
had  passed  to  George  Tomline,  from  whom  it  has  descended  like  Bacton  Manor, 
in  Hartismere  Hundred,  to  and  is  now  vested  in  the  Right  Hon.  Capt. 
Emest  George  Pretyman,  of  Orwell  Park,  D.L.  There  is  an  account  of  the 
hall  and  library  in  the  A rcheeolo^ical  Journal,  Ivi.  393.  The  hall  was  the 
seat  of  the  Seckford  family  from  the  time  of  Edward  I.  to  that  of  Charles  I., 
and  was  rebuilt  or  considerably  improved  in  the  reign  of  Elizabeth  by 
rhomas  Seckford,  the  munificent  founder  of  the  Woodbridge  Grammar 
School  and  the  almshouses  at  Woodbridge.  The  hall  is  now  partly 
in  ruins,  but  a  portion  is  occupied  as  a  farmhouse  by  George  Watkins 
Hunt. 

1  Proved  Cant.,  i7th  Nov.  1773,  28th  Jan.         •  Ipswich  Journal,  4th  Aug.  1832. 

•  'Page  says  in  James  Morrison. 


BEALINGS  (GREAT).  9 

The  customs  of  this  manor  are :  The  youngest  son  is  heir,  a  moiety  to 
the  widow  as  dower,  a  relief  of  iocs,  due  on  the  death  of  the  lord  of  the  manor 
of  Rushmere. 

Arms  of  SECKFORD  :  Ermine,  on  a  fesse  Gules,  three  escallops,  Or. 


SECKFORD  HALL. 


B 


I0  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

BE  A  LINGS  (LITTLE). 

N  King  Edward  the  Confessor's  time  Aluric,  son  of  Ulviet, 
held  50  acres  as  a  manor,  and  2  bordar  tenants.  There  was 
thru  I  ploughteam,  after  reduced  to  half  a  team,  3  acres 
of  nu-.ulow,  and  a  mill,  which  by  the  time  of  the  Domesday 
Survey  had  disappeared.  The  value  was  formerly  205.,  but 
then  xos. 

Another  manor  was  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by 
Beorn,  a  freeman,  with  50  acres  and  3  acres  of  meadow,  the  value  being  8s. 
This  land  Beom  bought  of  the  abbot,  with  an  agreement  that  after  his 
tlruth  it  should  revert  to  the  Church  of  Ely.  This  last  manor  was  at  the 
time  of  the  Norman  Survey  held  by  Odo  de  Campania,  Bishop  of  Bayeux, 

who  was  the  tenant  in  chief  of  both  manors.    A  William  de seems  to  have 

held  of  Roger  Bigot,  who  held  of  the  bishop.     Both  these  manors  were  held 
by  Earl  Ralph  on  the  day  of  his  forfeiture,  and  by  Hilary  of  him.' 

Amongst  the  possessions  of  Hervey  of  Bourges  in  this  place  we  find 
held  by  Geoffrey,  2  socmen,  Gladman  and  Brihtric  (over  whom  Godwin 
had  soc,  sac,  and  custom),  and  one  Leofsi,  of  whom  Edric  had  commenda- 
tion. These  2  socmen  had  28  acres.  In  the  time  of  the  Confessor  there 
was  I  ploughteam  which  at  the  date  of  the  Survey  had  disappeared. 
These  with  i  acre  of  meadow  were  valued  at  2s.  Leofsi  held  in  demesne 
20  acres  and  formerly  had  one  ploughteam.  He  also  had  9  acres  of  meadow 
and  one  mill,  the  whole  valued  at  gs.  Hervey  of  Bourges  also  held  in 
demesne  in  the  Confessor's  time,  Leuric  and  Brihtric,  2  freemen  under 
commendation  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  with  10  acres,  half  a  plough-team, 
and  half  an  acre  of  meadow  valued  at  2s.  Hervey  also  held  in  demesne,  in  the 
Confessor's  day,  Ulmar  and  Bond,  2  freemen  under  commendation  to  the 
said  abbot,  with  4  acres,  valued  at  8d.,  and  he  (Hervey)  also  held  in  demesne 
Hardekin,  a  freeman  under  commendation,  half  to  Durrant,  Edric's  man, 
and  half  to  Harold,  with  2  acres  valued  at  6d.  "  It,"  whatever  this  may 
be,  "  was  6  quarantenes  long  and  15  broad,  and  paid  y^d.  in  a  gelt."3 

The  other  holdings  in  Little  Dealings  recorded  in  the  Domesday  Survey 
are  that  of  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  who  had  two  freemen  with  20  acres  under 
commendation  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  35. ,3  and  that  of  Hugh  de 
Montfort,  who  had  a  freeman  under  commendation,  half  to  the  Abbot  of 
Ely  and  half  to  Edric,  holding  4^  acres  valued  at  8d.4 

LITTLE  BEALINGS  MANOR. 

In  the  time  of  Edw.  I.,  the  manor  of  Bealings  Parva  was  vested  in 
Henry  de  Playford,  and  on  his  death  in  1289  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Richard  de  Playford.  In  1312  Bartholomew  de  Ellingham  had  free  warren,' 
and  in  1316  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  John  Hubert.  In  1334  it  was 
vested  in  John  de  Seckford,  who  this  year  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here.' 
It  seems  ultimately  to  have  gone  with  Seckford  Manor,  for  it  was  sold  by 
Seckford  Cage,  the  devisee  of  Dorothy  Seckford.7 


1  Dora.  ii.  373.  5  Chart.  Rolls,  5  Edw.  II.  30. 

*"""   »•  442-  •  Chart.  Rolls,  8  Edw.  III.  50. 


.          ,  .     .      . 

Dm  »•  442-  'Chart.  Rolls,  8  Edw.  III.  50. 

Dom-  "•  3»6A.  'See.:  Seckford    Hall    Manor,  in    Great 

«Dom.  ii.  4066.  Bealings. 


BRIGHTWELL. 


ii 


BRIGHTWELL  MANOR. 

Saxon  times  this  manor  belonged  to  the  Church  of  Ely, 
having  been  given  to  it  by  a  Saxon  noble,  Oswi,  and  Leofleda 
his  wife,  father  and  mother  of  Alwyn,  on  his  admission  to  the 
monastery  of  Ely  (where  he  became  a  monk  and  was  after- 
wards Bishop  of  Elmham  about  1021),  and  it  remained  with 
the  monastery  at  the  time  of  the  Domesday  Survey,  the 
entry  being  as  follows  : — • 

'  The  Saint  (St.  Etheldreda)  in  King  Edward's  time  held  as  a  manor 
2  carucates  of  land.  Then  6  villein  tenants,  now  5.  Always  3  bordar 
tenants.  Then  5  serfs,  now  2.  Always  in  demesne  2  ploughteams.  Then 
4  ploughteams  belonging  to  the  men,  now  3.  And  i  church  estate  without 
land,  and  6  acres  of  meadow,  and  2  mills.  Always  i  rouncy  and  40  sheep 
and  8  hogs.  And  there  is  one  socman  with  12  acres  and  he  dwells  in 
Newbourne— -always  valued  at  405.  It  is  10  quarantenes long  and  6  broad, 
and  pays  in  a  gelt  4^.  Others  have  holdings  there.'" 

Hervey,  first  Bishop  of  Ely,  dividing  the  possession  of  the  church  between 
the  bishop  and  the  monks,  this  was  assigned  to  the  latter  between  1109 
and  1131. *  About  a  hundred  years  later,  in  1234, we  nncl  tne  manor  vested 
in  Richard  de  Gossebek,  who  was  succeeded  in  1272  by  Sir  Hugh  de  Gosse- 
bek  who  dying  about  131 1,3  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Ralph  de 
Gossebek.  Ralph's  daughter  Beatrix  married  Johnde  Lampet,  and  to  her 
the  manor  passed.  The  manor  was  held  by  the  Lampet  family  till  the  time 
of  Edw.  1 1 1.,  when  William  Lampet  and  Mabel  his  wife  levied  a  fine  of  the 
manor.  "  22  Edw.  III.  16.  William  Lampet  and  Mabel  his  wife  v.  Jacob 
Sampson  par.  of  Middleton  ch.  Edmund  Salman  chaplain,  and  John  Hare 
chaplain  of  Brightwell  Manor,  with  appurtenances  and  advowson  of 
church  in  Waldringfield  and  Martlesham."  William  Lampet  left  an  only 
daughter,  Catherine,  married  to  John  Lovyll,  who  left  an  only  daughter, 
Agnes,  married  to  Philip  Curson,  of  Letheringset,  in  Norfolk. 

Davy  mentions  a  Robert  Curson. as  lord,  who,  he  states,  married 
Margaret,  daughter  of  William  Lampet,  and  was  succeeded  by  their  son 
and  heir,  William  Curson.  Either  this  William  Curson,  or  possibly  his  son, 
William  Curson,  and  Cecily  his  wife,  were  plaintiffs  in  a  suit  about  1457 
against  one  John  Andrewe,  feoffee  of  John  Lampet,  father  of  the  said 
Cecily,  touching  this  manor  and  the  manors  of  Waldringfield  and  "  Lam- 
petes  in  Helmingham."4 

William  Curson  died  in  1485,'  when  Elizabeth,  his  daughter,  married  to 
Sir  Thomas  Teye,  Knt.,  of  Ardley,  in  Essex,  succeeded,  and  at  her  death  the 
manor  passed  to  her  eldest  daughter  and  coheir,  Margaret,  married  to  Sir 
John  Jermy,  Knt.,  of  Metfield  in  Mendham,  who  was  living  in  1553.  He 
was  a  son  of  Edmund  Jermy,  and  in  1542  a  fine  of  the  manor  was  levied 
against  him  and  his  wife  Margaret  and  others  by  Thomas  Bawdy  and 
others.  The  fine  includes  the  Manors  of  Brightwell,  Riveshall  (Waldring- 
field), and  Stutton,  with  appurtenances  and  tenements  and  rents,  and  rent 
of  lib.  of  pepper,  liberty  of  the  course  of  two  folds,  free  warren,  and  one  fair 
with  appurtenances  in  Brightwell,  Bucklesham,  '•  Foxhole,"  Newbourne, 


'Dom.  ii.  386. 

2  Ha.il.  43  H.  4  copy. 

3 1.P.M.,  5  Edw.  II.  14. 

«  E.C.P.,  35-38  Hen.  VI.  26,  472. 


5I.P.M.,  i  and  2  Hen.  VII.;  D.K.R.  10, 
App.  ii.  p.  120.  This  inquisition 
distinctly  says  that  William  Curson 
was  the  son  of  William  Curson. 


I2  THE   MANORS   OF   SUFFOLK. 

Waldingfield,  Henley,  Sutton,  Brantham,  and  Tatteston  (PTattingstone), 
as  well  as  the  advowson  of  the  churches  of  Brightwell  and  Sutton.1 

From  Sir  John  Jenny,  who  died  in  1560,  the  manor  passed  in  the  same 
course  as  tin-  Manor  of  Metfield  in  Mendham,  in  Hoxnc  Hundred,  until  the 
death  of  Sir  Thomas  Jenny,  K.B. 

About  the  middle  of  the  I7th  century  the  manor  was  sold  by  the 
Jenny  family  to  Sir  William  Hewitt,  Knt.  He  sold  it  to  Sir  Anthony 
Wmi/ln-ld,  of  Letheringham,  Bart.,  who  died  3Oth  July,  1638,  and  Sir 
Richard,  his  son,  sold  it  to  Thomas  Essington,  a  merchant,  who  resided  here 
in  1655,  and  was  High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk  in  1657.  He  repaired  at  his  own 
expense  the  almost  mined  church,  rebuilt  the  steeple,  and  reseated  the  nave 
and  also  the  chancel  in  which  is  a  vault,  the  entrance  to  the  same  having  a 
marble  slab  with  "  The  Essington  vault  "  inscribed  thereon.  The  chancel 
also  contains  two  small  monuments  of  alabaster,  the  work  of  a  German, 
whose  ancestors  were  Italians.  There  are  monuments  to  two  of  the  children 
of  Thomas  Essington. 

He  married  Anne,  daughter  of  John  Janson,  of  Ashby  Ledger,  co. 
Northampton,  and  had  issue  John,  Martha,  and  Samuel.  John  Essington 
succeeded  his  father,  Thomas,  and  sold  the  manor  to  Sir  Samuel  Barnardis- 
ton,  of  Brightwell,  the  3rd  son  of  Sir  Nathaniel  Barnardiston,  of  Ketton, 
created  Bart,  nth  May,  1663.  Hewas  Sheriff  of  Suffolk  1666-7,  an<^  M.P. 
for  that  county  between  1673  and  1702.  He  was  Deputy-Governor  of  the 
East  India  Company,  and  was  attainted  by  the  Irish  Parliament  of  James 
II.  in  1689. 

He  married  ist  Thomasine,  daughter  of  Joseph  Brand,  of  Edwardstone, 
and  2ndly  Mary,  daughter  of  Sir  Abraham  Reynardson,  Knt.,  Lord  Mayor 
of  London.  He  died  8th  Nov.  1707,*  without  issue,  when  the  manor  passed 
to  his  nephew  and  heir,  Sir  Samuel  Barnardiston,  2nd  Bart.,  M.P.  for 
Ipswich  1698-1700.  He  married  I3th  Aug.  1709,  Martha,  daughter  and  coheir 
of  Thomas  Richmond,  of  London,  apothecary,  and  died  3rd  Jan.  1709-10', 
when  the  manor  vested  in  his  brother  and  heir,  Sir  Peletiah  Barnardiston, 
3rd  Bart.,  who  died  unmarried  4th  May,  1712,*  and  was  succeeded  by  his 
cousin  and  heir  of  entail,  Sir  Nathaniel  Barnardiston,  4th  Bart.,  being  son 
and  heir  of  Peletiah  Barnardiston,  of  Hackney,  merchant,  by  Martha, 
daughter  of  Rich.  Turner,  which  Peletiah  was  next  surviving  younger 
brother  of  the  ist  Bart.  The  4th  Bart,  died  unmarried  at  Brightwell 
Hall  2ist  Sept.  1712,'  when  the  manor  is  said  to  have  devolved  on  "  Arthur 
Barnardiston,  son  of  Arthur,  youngest  son  of  Sir  Nathaniel."6  Further, 
that  he  died  3rd  April,  1737,  when  the  manor  went  to  Sir  John  Shaw,  3rd 
Bart.,  who  had  married,  Sept.  1716,  Anna  Maria,  eldest  daughter  and  coheir  of 
Sir  Thomas  Barnardiston,  3rd  Bart.,  of  Ketton.  Sir  John  died  4th  March, 
1 738-9,'  when  the  manor  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John  Shaw,  LL.D., 
4th  Bart.,  who  married  ist  26th  Feb.  1749-50,  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  William 
Hedges,  of  Alderton,  co.  Wilts,  and  2ndly,  I7th  Feb.  1752,  Martha,  daughter 
and  heir  of  John  Kenward,  of  Kenward  Park,  in  Yalding,  co.  Kent.  The 
4th  Bart,  died  i8th  June,  1779,'  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Sir 
John  Gregory  Shaw,  5th  Bart.,  who  married  gth  March,  1782,  the  Hon. 

1  Fine,  Hil.  34  Hen.  VIII.  «He  married  ist  Ann  dau.  of  John  Morrice 

'Will,  proved  Dec.  1707  and  1710.  of  Newman  Hall, Essex,  and  2ndly 

'Admin.    20  Jan.  1709-10.     Will  proved  Mary,  dau.   of   Rich.    Jennens,    of 

Dec-  17"-  Princethorp,  co.  Warwick. 

4  Will  proved  June,  1712.  7  Admin.  26  March,  1730. 

'  Will  proved  Oct.  1712.  •  Will  proved  July,  1779. 


BRIGHTWELL.  13 

Theodosia  Margaret,  youngest  daughter  of  John,  2nd  Baron  Monson,  of 
Burton.  In  Aug.  1812,  the  manor  was  offered  for  sale  with  property  con- 
taining 627a.  ir.  4p.  of  land  and  sheepwalk,  the  rental  being  £576,  and 
subject  to  payment  of  £15  per  annum  to  curacy  of  Brightwell,  and  also  to 
the  repair  of  Brightwell  Chapel.  The  purchaser  was  John  Vernon,  of 
Wherstead,  who  died  in  1818,  when  Sir  Robert  Harland,  of  Nacton,  2nd 
Bart.,  inherited  in  right  of  his  wife  Arethusa,  sister  of  the  said  John  Vernon. 
The  manor  subsequently  passed  to  George  Tomline,  from  whom  it  descended 
in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Bacton,  in  Hartismere  Hundred,  to  and 
is  now  held  by  his  representative,  the  Right  Hon.  Capt.  Ernest  George 
Pretyman,  of  Orwell  Park,  D.L. 

Page  mentions  that  a  very  curious  and  scarce  print,  from  a  drawing 
by  Knuff,  gives  a  bird's-eye  view  of  the  mansion  here,  the  outbuildings, 
plantations,  and  a  large  piece  of  water  attached  to  it.  This  mansion  had 
been  rebuilt  at  great  expense  by  Sir  Samuel  Barnardiston,  the  ist  Bart., 
in  1663.  In  the  year  1760  this  mansion  was  taken  down  except  a  portion 
now  or  recently  used  as  a  farmhouse.  A  fine  was  levied  of  "  Brightwell 
Manor,"  with  the  manors  of  Rivershall  and  Stutton,  in  1527,  by  Sir  Anthony 
Hopton,  against  Sir  Thomas  Tey  and  others.  The  fine  included  also  the 
advowson  of  Brightwell  Church.1 

Arms  of  WINGFIELD  :  Argent  on  a  bend  Gules,  between  two  bendlets 
or  cottises,  Sable,  three  hawks'  lures  or  wings,  conjoined.  Of  ESSINGTON  : 
"  5  fusils  in  cross  "  (Davy).  Of  SHAW  :  Arg.  a  chevron  betw.  three  fusils, 
Ermine. 


Fine,  Easter  25  Eliz. 


THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

BUCKLESHAM. 

HE  principal  holding  here  in  King  Edward  the  Confessor's 
time  was  of  30  freemen  under  commendation  to  Harold. 
They  had  2  carucates  of  land  and  2  bordars.  Amongst  them 
were  5  ploughteams  reduced  by  the  time  of  the  Norman 
Survey,  when  Robert,  Count  Mortein,  was  the  tenant  in 
chief,  to  4  ploughteams.  Also  2  acres  of  meadow  and  a 
church  with  8  acres  and  2  bordars.  Besides  these  there 
were  in  the  Confessor's  time  2  freemen  under  commendation  to  the  Abbot 
of  Ely,  namely,  Edric  and  Uluric,  with  18  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam, 
formerly  valued  at  6os.,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  at  £4.  This  Eudo, 
son  of  Nigel,  held  of  the  Earl.  It  was  8  quarantenes  long  and  4  broad,  and 
paid  in  a  gelt  I2d.1  The  Abbot  of  Ely  also  had  here  5  acres  valued  at  8rf./ 
but  no  manor  is  mentioned  in  the  Domesday  Survey  except  under  the  head 
Kenbrook,  which  is  in  Bucklesham.  Here  we  meet  with  several  entries, 
two  amongst  the  holdings  of  Roger  Bigot,  one  of  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  and 
the  last  under  the  lands  of  Hervey  de  Berri.  One  of  the  holdings  of  Roger 
Bigot  was  of  5  freemen  under  Norman— >Suivold,  Ulwin,  Ordric,  Goodwin, 
and  Spretman,  with  30  acres,  4  bordars,  i  ploughteam  and  a  half  and 
an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  35.  Kenbrook  according  to  the  Domesday 
Survey,  was  half  a  league  long  and  3  quarantenes  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt 
lorf.  The  other  holding  of  Roger  Bigot  here  was  of  14  freemen,  over  whom 
the  said  Norman  had  commendation — Wihtgar,  Osbert,  Leofstan,  Edric, 
Frewin,  Brightmar,  Blackman,  Woolward,  Durrant,  Goodrich,  Siric, 
Woolvey,  Alrich,  Almar,  and  Bond,  with  73  acres,  3  ploughteams,  3  acres  of 
meadow,  and  a  mill  and  a  half  valued  at  155.  The  Survey  adds  :  "  The  men 
of  the  Hundred  have  this  land  valued  at  485.,  but  it  formerly  rendered  and 
they  now  render,  £6."3 

The  holding  of  the  Abbot  of  Ely  was  of  a  freeman  under  Etheldreda, 
Goodrich,  with  7  acres  and  a  team  of  2  oxen,  valued  at  2od.  Originally, 
Roger  Bigot  held  them  of  the  King,  but  the  abbot  proved  his  right  of  over- 
lordship,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  Roger  Bigot  held  of  the  abbot.4 
Hervey  de  Bern's  holding  was  a  freeman,  Ulrich,  under  commendation  to 
the  Abbot  of  Ely,  held  by  Kenold  of  Hervey.  He  had  14  acres,  half  a  plough- 
team,  half  a  null,  an  acre  of  meadow,  and  2  bordars,  formerly  valued  at  55., 
but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  at  95.* 

The  above  lands  in  later  times  and  prior  to  the  time  of  Edw.  I.,  became 
divided  between  three  manors— the  Manor  of  Bucklesham,  the  Manor  of 
Tyrell's  Hall,  and  the  Manor  of  Kembroke. 

MANOR  OF  BUCKLESHAM. 

This  manor  was  formed  out  of  the  holding  of  Robert,  Count  of  Mortein, 
in  Normandy,  usually  styled  Earl  of  Cornwall,  the  Domesday  tenant  in 
chief,  who  was  the  son  of  Herluin  de  Conteville,  by  Herleve  or  Arietta, 
daughter  of  Fulbert,  chamberlain  of  Robert,  Duke  of  Normandy,  mother  of 
William  the  Conqueror.  He  was  brother  to  Odo,  Bishop  of  Bayeux,  and 
likewise  half-brother  to  the  Conqueror.  Distinguished  as  one  of  the 
largest  landowners  in  the  kingdom,  it  is  remarked  by  Ellis  that  while  the 

'  Dom.  ii.  292.  4  Dom.  ii.  3856. 

Dom-  "•  3*56  » Dom.  ii.  441*. 

»Dom.  ii.  3406,  343. 


BUCKLESHAM.  15 

Conqueror  enriched  his  half-brothers  not  a  single  manor  in  any  part  of 
England,  or  even  the  smallest  portion  of  land,  is  put  down  in  the  Survey 
as  belonging  to  any  of  his  (the  Conqueror's)  sons.1 

Brady  reckons  the  Count  of  Mortain's,  or  Moretaigne,  manors  as 
793,  248  in  Cornwall  and  545  in  seventeen  other  counties,  but  this  number 
has  been  thought  to  be  exaggerated.  He  is  represented  in  the  Bayeux 
Tapestry,  and  was  a  great  benefactor  to  the  Abbey  of  Grestein,  in  Normandy, 
but  his  character  is  said  to  have  been  dull  and  indolent.  William  of 
Malmesbury's  description  of  him  is  "  crassi  et  hebetis  ingenii  homo." 
He  married  Matilda,  the  youngest  daughter  of  Robert  de  Montgomery, 
Earl  of  Shrewsbury,  and  died  in  1091,  when  this  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  William  Fitz-Robert,  or  de  Mortain,  Earl  of  Cornwall,  who  was 
taken  prisoner  at  Tenchebray  24th  April,  1106,  and  condemned  to  imprison- 
ment for  life  in  consequence  of  his  rebellion  against  Hen.  I.  The  manor 
was,  of  course,  forfeited  to  the  Crown.  In  the  time  of  Edw.  I.  we  find  the 
lordship  vested  in  John  Cordeboef,2  but  in  the  next  reign  it  passed  to  Richard 
Len,  of  Ipswich,  who  certainly  held  in  1316.'  The  same  year,  however,  it 
seems  to  have  gone  to  John  de  Holbroke,  and  shortly  after  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  de  Holbroke,  for  we  find  Margery,  the  widow  of  John 
de  Holbroke,  in  1330  suing  Sir  Thomas  for  half  this  manor  as  her  dower. 
Sir  Thomas  de  Holbroke  died  in  1360.  In  1350,  however,  we  meet  with  a 
fine  of  the  manor,  with  appurtenances  in  Ipswich,  Thurleston,  Whitton, 
Bramford,  and  Cleydon,  levied  by  John  de  Ufford,  William  de  Bergh,  clerk, 
William  de  Letton,  parson  of  Westtottes  Church,  and  William  de  Felmyng- 
ham,  against  Sir  John  de  Gaston  and  Katherine  his  wife,  deforciants.4 

On  Sir  Thomas  de  Holbroke's  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  John  Holbroke,  who  died  about  1375,  when  it  passed  to  his  daughter 
and  heir,  Margery,  wife,  of  John  Fastolf,  Knt.  She  died  in  1387,  and  he  in 
1406,  when  the  manor  passed  to  theii  son  and  heir,  Sir  Hugh  Fastolf,  who 
released  the  manor  to  Sir  George  de  Felbrigg,  Knt.  In  1374  we  meet  with 
a  fine  of  the  manor  levied  by  Thomas  Caux,  of  Hokham,  and  Elizabeth  his 
wife,  Henry  de  Pakenham,  and  Adam  Galyon,  against  Katherine,  who  was 
the  wife  of  Sir  John  de  Gaston,3  and  Page  states  that  in  the  3rd  year  of 
Rich.  II.  [1379]  Catherine  Brewse  held  the  manor  of  the  King  in  capite, 
and  because  she  "  had  taken  the  habit  of  a  nun,  she  held  on  the  day  of  her 
profession  in  demesne  half  a  knight's  fee  in  Foxhall,  Kesgrave,  and  Buckles- 
ham,  and  William  de  Ufford,  Earl  of  Suffolk,  the  son  of  Margaret,  the  sister 
of  Thomas  de  Norwich,  the  father  of  the  said  Catherine,  was  her  next  heir." 
But  in  1383  we  meet  with  the  following  fine  :  John  Felbrigg,  clerk,William 
Hastyng,  of  Aylesham,  Gilbert  Boulge,  Edmund  Kempe,  of  Saxthorp,  and 
John  de  Banhamcleik,  v.  Thomas  Caux,  of  Hokham,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife, 
of  Bucklesham  Manor  and  Rushmere  juxta  Ipswich  Manor.6  According  to 
the  Davy  MSS.,  on  the  death  of  Sir  George  de  Felbrigg  the  manor  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John  Felbrigg,  who  died  in  1424,  when  it  went  to  his 
daughter  Margery,  wife  of  Thomas  Sampson,  who  died  seised  of  the  manor 
in  1439,  when  it  passed  as  did  the  Manor  of  Playford,  in  Carlford  Hundred, 
until  the  death  of  Sir  Anthony  Felton  in  1613.  Thomas  Felton,  son  and 
heir  of  Thomas  Felton,  held  his  first  court  igth  April,  1553.  Anthony 
Felton,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Felton,  held  his  first  court  igth  Aug.  1586. 

'  Ellis's  General  Introd.  to  Dom.  vol.  i.  p.  *  Feet  of  Fines,  24  Edw  III.  17. 

321.  5Feet  of  Fines,  48  Edw.  III.  19. 

*  Extent,»I.P.M.,  28  Edw.  I.  25.  *  Feet  of  Fines,  7  Rich.  II.  28. 
3  Extent.Jl.Q.D.,  10  Edw.  II.  152. 


16  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Henrv  Felton,  son  and  heir  of  Anthony,  held  his  first  court  nth  Nov.  1614, 
and  living  in  1624  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Henry  Felton, 
2nd  Bart. 

The  court,  26th  Sept.  1626,  was  held  by  Elizabeth,  Lady  Felton, 
Dorothy,  Lady  Felton,  John  Goswold,  and  Bassingbourne  Gawdy,  as 
guardians  of  Henry  Felton,  2nd  Bart.,  he  being  then  a  minor.  This  year, 
however,  the  manor  appears  to  have  been  disposed  of  to  Sir  Richard  Broke, 
son  of  Robert  Broke,  or  possibly  to  his  father,  who  died  this  same  year. 
In  1639,  on  tne  dpath  of  Sir  Richard  Broke,  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Sir  Robert  Broke,  Bart.,  from  whom  it  has  descended  in  the  same  course 
as  the  Manor  of  Broke  Hall,  in  Nacton,  in  Colneis  Hundred,  and  Lawshall, 
in  Babergh  Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  Lord  de  Saumarez. 

In  1764  Kirby  says  :  "  The  lordship  of  this  parish  is  in  Richard  Norton, 
Esq.,  but  the  hamlet  of  Kembroke,  which  lies  on  the  road  from  Kirkton  to 
Newbourn,  is  the  lordship  of  Philip  Broke,  Esq.,  who  also  hath  the  advowson 
of  the  rectory."  \Ve  find  no  evidence  of  the  Manor  of  Bucklesham  having 
been  in  1764  vested  in  Richard  Norton.  It  is  stated  that  Miss  Cartwright 
was  lady  of  the  Manor  of  Bucklesham  in  1855  and  1885,  but  certainly  the 
Davy  MSS.  deduce  the  manor  from  the  Feltons  to  the  Broke  family  from 
1626.  It  is,  of  course,  possible  that  Davy  has  confused  this  manor  with 
that  of  Kembroke,  which  undoubtedly  has  belonged  to  the  Broke  family 
since  the  time  of  Charles  II.  He  makes  the  suggestion  that  Kembroke 
Manor  has  become  joined  to  the  Manor  of  Bucklesham. 

The  Court  Rolls  of  the  Manor  for  1539  will  be  found  amongst  the 
Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.' 

MANOR  OF  KEMBROKE. 

This  was  formed  out  of  the  estate  of  Roger  Bigot,  and  William  de 
Burnaville  held  under  him.  We  learn  little  of  this  manor  save  that  it  is 
included  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Sir  Robert  Broke,  25th  May,  1626,  and 
passed  to  his  son,  Sir  Richard,  then  to  his  son,  Sir  Robert  Broke,  and  on  his 
death  in  1693  passed  to  his  nephew,  Robert  Broke,  and  has  descended  in  a 
like  course  with  the  main  manor  of  Bucklesham,  being  new  vested  like  that 
manor  in  Lord  de  Saumarez. 

MANOR  OF  TYRELL'S  HALL,  al.  TYRRELS  FELTWELL-CUM-FOXHALI.. 

This  was  formed  from  the  land  held  by  Goodrich  of  the  Abbot  of  Ely  in 
the  time  of  the  Domesday  Survey,  and  in  1316  was  vested  in  the  Prior  of 
Ely.  In  1353  the  manor  was  apparently  vested  in  Sir  Thomas  de  Holbroke, 
for  this  year  he  levied  a  fine  against  John  Caperon,  parson 
of  'Tatyngston"  Church,  and  Henry  White,  of  Tatyngston.'  The 
fine  included  also  the  advowson  of  the  churches  of  Bucklesham, 
Brendwenham,  and  Holton.  The  manor  probably  descended  like  the 
main  manor  and  passed  to  the  Fastolfs  by  marriage  of  Margery  Holbroke 
to  Sir  John,  and  continued  in  that  family  as  late  as  the  time  of  Hen.  VII., 
descending  like  Kirkley  Manor,  in  Mutford  Hundred,  and  Broke  Hall, 
Nacton,  in  this  Hundred,  to  George  Fastolf,  from  whom  it  was  acquired 
in  1510  by  Thomas  Russhe.1  From  Thomas  Russhe4  the  manor  passed  to 
Arthur  Russhe,  who  died  2nd  July,  1537,'  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 

1  Add.  Ch.  10226.  4  See  Kirkley  Manor,  in  Mutford  Hundred. 

'Feet  of  Fines.  27  Edw.  III.  10.  >  I.P.M.,  29  Hen.  VIII.  66. 

»Fin*.Mkh.  a  Hen.  VIII. 


BUCKLESHAM.  17 

Anthony  Russhe.     He  died  3rd  May,  1555,  and  the  manor  was  apparently 
sold  in  1558  to  Thomas  Seckford.1 

In  1568  it  was  apparently  vested  in  John  Goodwyn,  and  this  year 
acquired  from  him  by  Robert  Broke.*  In  the  time  of  Charles  II.  the  manor 
became  vested  in  Sir  Robert  Broke,  who  held  of  the  Dean  of  Ely. 

On  Robert  Brake's  death,  the  manor  passed  to  his  nephew  Robert 
Broke,  in  whose  family  it  long  remained,  but  is  now  vested  in  the  Right 
Hon.  Ernest  George  Pretyman,  of  Orwell  Park,  D.L. 

There  are  two  fines  in  the  time  of  Henry  VIII.  levied  of  "  Bucklesham 
Manor,"  which  undoubtedly  related  to  this --the  one  was  levied  in  1542  by 
Thomas  Carlton  against  Edward  Roes  al.  Roose,  and  included  Foxhall,3 
and  the  other  in  1546  by  Thcmas  Danyell  and  others  against  Thomas  Carlton 
and  others.4 


'  Fine,  Mich.  6  Mary  I  3  Fine,  34  Hen.  VIII. 

»  Fine,  Trin.  10  Eliz.  4  Fine,  Mich.  38  Hen.  VIII 


i8  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

BURGH. 

MANOR  was  held  here  in  the  time  of  Edward  the  Confessor 
by  A  Uric,  a  freeman  with  i  caiucate  and  20  acres  of  land. 
There  were  2  bordar  tenants,  and  i  ploughteam  and  half  a 
ploughteam  belonging  to  the  men.  There  were  4  acres  of 
meadow,  i  rouncy,  7  beasts,  and  16  hogs,  and  the 
value  was  2os. 

At  the  time  of  the  Norman  Survey  the  manor  had 
increased  in  value  to  30$.,  and  the  bordar  tenants  had  risen  to  7  ;  there  were 
2  plough  teams  in  demesne  in  lieu  of  i,  and  the  men  had  also  a  plough- 
team,  while  the  16  hogs  had  come  down  to  12,  and  there  had  been  an 
addition  of  17  sheep.  The  land  had  been  given  to  William  de  Varennes 
as  tenant  holding  in  chief  of  the  King. 

William  de  Varennes  also  held  here  n  full  freemen  and  3  half  freemen 
under  commendation  to  the  said  Ailric,  with  50  acres  and  2  bordar  tenants, 
formerly  having  2  ploughteams,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  only  i, 
and  half  an  acre  of  meadow.  The  value  had  from  Saxon  times  decreased 
from  ios.  to  8s.  The  Survey  says :  "  All  this  William  de  Varennes  took  over 
as  i  carucate  of  land,  and  R.  de  Glanville  then  held  it  of  him,  and  there  was 
a  church  benefice  with  8  acres  and  several  persons  had  part  in  it."1  Hugh 
de  Montfort  had  two  small  holdings  here— one  a  freeman  under  commenda- 
tion in  the  Confessor's  time,  half  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  and  half  to  the 
predecessor  of  Robert  Malet.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  there  were  three 
men  with  20  acres  of  land.  Formerly  there  had  been  I  ploughteam,  but 
then  only  half  a  team  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  in  Saxon  times  at 
ios.,  but  in  Norman  days  at  55.  The  other  holding  of  Hugh  de  Montfort 
was  a  freeman  under  commendation,  half  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely  and  half  to 
Edric  Grim,  with  19  acres  and  i  bordar,  i  ploughteam  formerly,  but  at  the 
Survey  reduced  to  half  a  team  and  i  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  45.  gd.2 
Geoffrey  de  Magnaville  had  four  small  holdings — ist,  8  freemen  under  com- 
mendation to  Halden,  a  freeman,  with  54  acres,  2  ploughteams,  and  2  acres 
of  meadow,  valued  at  ios. ;  2ndly ,  3  freemen  in  the  Confessor's  time,  under  com- 
mendation to  the  said  Halden,  having  50  acres,  formerly  2  ploughteams, 
but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  i  only,  and  i£  acres  of  meadow  valued  at 
ios. ;  3rdly,  Brichtric,  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Ailric  de  Burgh, 
having  10  acres  valued  at  2od.  \  4thly,  Brihtwold  Mufla,  under  commenda- 
tion half  to  the  predecessor  of  Hervey  de  Bern  and  half  to  the  predecessor 
of  Robert  Malet,  holding  24  acres,  formerly  I  ploughteam,  but  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey  none,  and  i  acre  of  meadow  valued  at  5s.  Under  this  last 
entry  the  Survey  says,  no  doubt  referring  to  the  whole  place, "  it  is  9  quaren- 
t^nes  long  and  7  broad,  and  pays  in  a  gelt  i$d.  "3  Robert  Malet  had  three 
holdings,  one  of  2  freemen  under  commendation  to  Edric  with  16  acres, 
half  a  ploughteam,  and  I  acre  of  meadow,  formerly  valued  at  45.,  but  at  the 
time  of  the  Survey  at  3$. ;  another  of  a  freeman  Adelwold,  under  commenda- 
tion to  Edric  in  the  Confessor's  time,  having  16  acres,  formerly  half  a  plough- 
team,  but  then  half,  valued  at  2s.,  which  last  was  held  by  Robert  Malet  in 
demesne  ;  and  the  third  R.  de  Glanville,  holding  a  freeman,  Ulwin  the 
priest,  who  had  been  under  commendation  to  Edric  in  the  Confessor's  time, 
with  6  acres  valued  at  I2d.,  and  II  acres  of  free  land  valued  at  ii^.4  Earl 
Hugh  held  here  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Countess  Edgiva,  with 

'Dom.  ii.  4006.  JDom.  ii.  3126. 

"Dom.  ii.  406.  4Dom.  ii.  3156. 


BURGH.  19 

5  acres  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  I2d.*  Earl  Alan  had  a 
villein  here  with  ii  acres  included  in  the  valuation  of  Soham.2  Roger  de 
Poictou  had  a  freeman  here  under  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  holding  16  acres,  2 
bordars,  r  acre  of  meadow,  formerly  when  valued  at  55.,  having  half  a  plough- 
team,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey,  when  valued  at  75.,  none.  This  was 
held  in  Domesday  times  by  Ernolf  of  Roger  de  Poictou.3  The  Abbot  of 
Ely  had  6  acres  valued  at  I2d.*  The  Countess  of  Albemarle  had  2  freemen, 
one  under  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely  and  the  other  to  Ralph,  the 
Earl  holding  36  acres,  2  bordars,  and  in  the  Confessor's  time  2  ploughteams, 
but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  half  a  ploughteam  only,  and  2  acres  of  meadow, 
valued  at  6s.,3  and  Humphrey  the  Chamberlain  had  a  freeman  under  com- 
mendation, half  to  Brightwold  and  half  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  holding  24 
acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  ios.6 
There  is  also  an  entry  under  Burgh,  in  Colneis  Hundred,  viz.,  a  freeman, 
Goodrich,  under  commendation  to  one  himself  under  commendation  to 
Harold,  with  16  acres  of  land,  2  bordars,  half  a  ploughteam,  and  half  an 
acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  35.  Ranulf,  brother  of  Ilger,  was  the  Domesday 
tenant  in  chief.7  Amongst  the  entries  in  the  Survey  of  the  land  of  Roger 
Bigot  in  Colneis  Hundred  is  one  which  probably  belongs  to  this  place. 
It  is  called  "  Burch."  It  consisted  of  i  carcuate  of  land  and  6  bordars 
belonging  to  Walton,  also  4  ploughteams  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at 
405.  In  the  Confessor's  time  the  estate  had  been  held  under  commenda- 
tion to  Norman  by  16  freemen,  named  Leverich,  Swetman,  Goodrich, 
Brightrich,  Almar,  another  Almar,  Brightnoth,  Leverich,  Thoka,  Goodrich, 
another  Goodrich,  Norman,  Gooday,  Lunden,  Aldwolf,  and  Coleman. 
The  Survey  adds :  "It  is  half  a  league  long,  and  2  quarentenes  broad,  and 
pays  in  a  gelt  22d."  There  was  also  a  church  with  12  acres,  valued  at  2s.8 

MANOR  OF  BURGH  HALL. 

Kirby,  following  the  author  of  the  Magna  Britannia,  states  that  Odo 
de  Campania,  Earl  of  Albemarle  and  Holderness,  was  lord  when  Domesday 
Book  was  made,  but  this  seems  to  be  a  delusion.  All  that  the  Countess  of 
Albemarle  held  was  36  acres  of  land  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  and  this 
land  not  as  a  manor.9 

The  lands  described  in  the  Survey  as  in  Burgh  became  divided  into 
three  manors — the  Manor  of  Burgh  Hall,  that  of  Thistleden  Hall,  and 
that  of  Cleeves  or  Clyffes  or  Blomvile,  the  last  being  possibly  not  a  separate 
manor,  but  if  so  it  devolved  in  a  like  course  with  the  main  manor. 

The  Manor  of  Burgh  Hall  was  that  held  by  Alric  in  Saxon  times,  and  by 
William  de  Warenna  in  the  time  of  William  the  Conqueror.  We  find  that 
in  1286  it  belonged  to  Alice,  daughter  of  William  de  Pirnho  or  Pyrrow, 
for  she  passed  it  by  fine  to  John  de  Crek,  son  of  James  and  Sarah  de  Pirnho, 
sister  of  Alice,  and  that  in  1288,  William,  son  and  heir  of  Sarah,  granted 
two  parts  of  and  the  reversion  of  the  third  part  of  the  manor  (which  the 
widow  of  John  de  Crek  then  held  in  dower)  to  Robert  de  Swillington,  son  of 
Sir  Hugh  de  Swillyngton  and  Helewise  de  Pirnho,  which  Robert  had  a 
grant  of  free  warren  here  in  1290. 10 

'Dom.  ii.  300.  6Dom.  ii.  433. 

2  Dom.  ii.  293.  f  Dom.  ii.  4236. 

3  Dom.  ii.  347.  'Dorn.  ii.  340. 
*  Dom.  ii.  3866.  »  Dom.  ii.  431. 

» Dom.  ii.  431.  I0  Chart.  Rolls,  22  Edw.  I. 


20  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

The  lordship,  or  at  least  a  part,  seems  to  be  then  vested  in  the  Uffords, 
for  as  early  as  1298  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  by  Robert  de  Ufford,sen. 
and  Joan  his  wife,  and  Edmund  their  son,  of  a  third  part  of  the  manor 
•gainst  Richard  de  Mundeville  and  Joan  his  wife.1  It  was  vested  in  Ralph 
de  Ufford,  brother  of  Robert,  ist  Earl  of  Suffolk,  in  the  time  of  Edw.  III. 
He  was  made  Justice  of  Ireland,  and  was  a  distinguished  person  in  his  day. 
He  married  Maud,  widow  of  William,  Earl  of  Ulster,  and  sister  of  Henry 
Plantagenet,  Earl  of  Lancaster.  This  Maud  gave  the  advowson  of  the 
church  to  the  chantry  which  she  founded  in  1348  within  the  Chapel  of  the 
Blessed  Virgin  in  the  nunnery  of  Campsey,  for  5  priests  to  pray  for  the 
health  of  the  souls  of  William  de  Burgh,  her  first  husband,  sometime  Earl 
of  Ulster,  and  for  the  good  estate  of  her  two  daughters  during  their  lives, 
and  of  their  souls  after  their  death.  This  chantry  was  in  1354  removed  to 
Rokehall,  in  Bruisyard.  By  her  marriage  with  Ralph  de  Ufford  she  had  an 
only  daughter,  Maud,  who  married  Thomas  de  Vere,  son  of  John  de  Vere, 
Earl  of  Oxford.  Ralph  de  Ufford  survived  his  wife  Maud,  and  married 
Eve,  daughter  and  heir  of  John  de  Clavering,  and  widow  of  Thomas  de 
Audeley,  and  had  a  son,  John,  who  succeeded  him,  and  was  summoned  to 
Parliament  as  Baron  Ufford  in  1360.  He  however,  died  on  the  Tuesday 
preceding  the  Feast  of  St.  James  the  following  year,  without  issue,  and  his 
estates  passed  to  his  brother  Sir  Edmund  Ufford,  then  aged  30  years.2 

Sir  Edmund  Ufford  married  Sybil,  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Pierpont, 
Knt.,  and  had  issue  Sir  Robert  Ufford,  Knt.,  and  from  this  time  to  the 
time  of  Gregory,  loth  Lord  Dacre,  the  manor  passed  in  the  same  course 
as  the  Manor  of  Benacre,  in  Blything  Hundred. 

The  manor  was  settled  in  1447  with  that  of  Wrentham  by  Sir  Thomas 
Dacre  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  on  themselves,  and  then  on  Robert  Fynes 
and  Phillippa  for  life,  then  on  Richard  Fynes  and  Joan  his  wife,  and  the 
heirs  of  Joan. 

In  1570  Gregory,  Lord  Dacre,  had  licence  to  alienate  the  manor  to 
Roger  Man  wood,  and  the  beneficial  interest  in  the  manor  seems  to  have 
become  vested  in  Henry,  Lord  Norris  (the  son  of  the  unfortunate  Henry 
Norris,  who  in  1526  fell  a  victim  to  the  King's  jealousy,  and  was  attainted 
in  Parliament  and  executed),  probably  through  his  mother,  Mary,  daughter 
of  the  Sir  Thomas,  Lord  Dacre  of  the  South,  who  had  died  in  1534.  Henry, 
Lord  Norris,  and  Margery  his  wife,  who  was  younger  daughter  and  coheir 
of  John,  Baron  Williams,  of  Thame,  had  licence  to  alienate  the  manor  to 
William  Collett,  and  the  sale  was  carried  into  effect  by  a  fine  levied  in 
Hil.  Term,  31  Eliz.  [1588].  A  fine  was  levied  in  1589  by  Anthony  Gosnold 
and  others  against  this  William  Collett,  probably  on  the  occasion  of  some 
settlement,1  and  ten  years  later  we  meet  with  another  fine  levied  of  the 
manor  by  John  Clenche  against  Thomas  Aldriche  and  others.4 

We  next  find  the  manor  vested  in  William  Blois,  of  Grundisburgh,  who 
died  in  1621,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  William  Blois,  of 
Grundisburgh  Hall,  who  married  Cecily,  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Wingfield, 
Knt.,  and  dying  in  1672  was  succeeded  by  his  eldest  surviving  son  and  heir, 
Sir  William  Blois,  from  whom  to  Sir  John  Blois,  4th  Bart.,  the  manor 
descended  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Blythburgh  in  Blything 
Hundred.  Sir  John  Blois,  4th  Bart.,  in  1771  sold  the  manor  to  Brampton 

•Feet  of  Fines,  26  Edw.  I.  6.  'Fine,  Easter,  31  Eliz. 

'Extent.    John    de    Ufford,    I.P.M.,    35         « Fine,  Mich.  41-42  Eliz. 
Edw.  III.  87  ;  Orig.,  35  Edw.  III. 


BURGH.  21 

Gurdon  Dillingham.  He  held  a  court  zyth  Nov.  1812,  and  died  in  1820, 
when  the  manor  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Theophilus  Thornhaugh  Gurdon, 
of  Letton.  In  1855  the  manor  was  vested  in  John  Fitzgerald,  of  Boulge 
Hall,'  who  assumed  the  name  oi  Purcell.  On  his  death  the  manor 
vested  in  his  executors,  who  appear  to  have  sold  it,  for  in  1896,  the  manor 
is  stated  to  have  been  in  Robert  Holmes  White,  of  Boulge  Hall,  and  the 
trustees  of  Major  Rouse  who  died  in  1887,  and  is  now  vested  in  Mrs.  Holmes 
White,  and  the  said  trustees. 

The  manor  extends  into  the  parishes  of  Burgh,  Grundisburgh,  Boulge, 
Hasketon,  Charsfield,  Wickham  Market,  and  the  rents  were  in  1744, 
£6.  75.  nd.,  and  in  1766  {Jo.  55.  njrf.  The  customs  were-— the  widow 
a  moiety  for  dower,  the  youngest  son  heir,  and  husband  tenant  by  the 
curtesy. 

MANOR  OF  THISTLEDEN  HALL. 

The  place  is  mentioned  by  name  in  the  Domesday  Survey  under  the 
lands  of  Roger  de  Poictou.  One  of  his  holdings  was  what  had  been  held 
in  the  Confessor's  time  by  8  and  a  half  freemen  under  commendation  to  the 
Abbey  of  Ely,  namely,  30  acres,  upon  which  had  in  Saxon  times  been 
employed  2  plough  teams,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  i  only.  The  former 
valuation  had  been  205.,  but  the  Domesday  valuation  was  8s.  only.  Another 
holding  was  one  and  a  half  freemen,  under  commendation  to  Ailric  de 
Burgh,  holding  10  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  2s. ;  and  the  third 
was  of  50  acres  as  a  manor  and  2  bordar  tenants,  which  in  the  Confessor's 
time  had  been  held  by  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of 
Ely,  when  it  had  in  connection  with  it  a  ploughteam.  There  was  i  acre 
of  meadow,  and  the  valuation  was  in  Saxon  times  20s.,  and  in  the  time  of  the 
Survey  115.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  Arnold  held  this  manor  of  Roger  de 
Poictou.1 

A  second  manor  is  mentioned  in  Domesday  Survey  as  then  in  Thistleden. 
It  was  amongst  the  possessions  of  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  and  consisted  of  60 
acres  held  by  Ulmar,  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  the  abbot,  and 
5  freemen  under  him.  Of  these  2  were  under  commendation  to  the 
predecessor  of  Geoffrey  de  Magnaville.  In  the  time  of  the  Confessor,  the 
manor  had  i  ploughteam  and  a  half,  and  3  acres  of  meadow,  and  was  valued 
at  IDS.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  there  was  but  i  ploughteam,  though 
the  value  had  risen  to  125.  When  the  manor  was  taken  over  there  was  a 
rouncy,  but  by  the  time  of  the  Survey  this  had  disappeared.  Also  formerly 
there  were  5  beasts,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  15  hogs,  50  sheep,  12 
goats,  and  5  hives  of  bees.3  The  only  other  holding  under  Thistleden  in 
Domesday  is  that  of  Hervey  de  Bourges,  which  was  of  30  acres,  which  had 
belonged  to  a  freeman  Frana,  under  commendation  to  Edric  in  the  Con- 
fessor's time.  There  were  2  bordars,  i  ploughteam,  and  2  acres  of 
meadow,  valued  at  8s.  This  Reynold  held  of  Hervey  de  Bourges  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey,  but  William  Malet  was  seised  of  it  at  the  time  of  his  death.4 
About  the  time  of  Edw.  I.  the  manors  in  Thistleden  had  coalesced,  and 
one  had  become  the  lordship  of  Hervey  de  Thistleden,  and  passed  from 
him  to  his  son  and  heir,  Gilbert  de  Thistleden,  from  whom  it  devolved  on 
his  son  and  heir,  Hugh  de  Thistleden,  and  then  on  his  son  and  heir,  Richard 
de  Thistleden,  who  died  here  in  1339.  The  manor  then  passed  to  Richard's 
daughter  and  heir,  Alice,  married  to  John  Bishop.  She  died  in  1:380,  when 

1  See  Manor  of  Boulge,  in  Wilf ord  Hundred.         J  Dom.  ii.  386. 
'Dom.  ii.  346.  4Dom.  ii.  4426. 


22  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

we  lose  sight  of  the  manor  during  a  considerable  interval.  In  1564  the  manor 
was  apparently  vested  in  Anthony  "  Bisshoppe,"  and  wasinthatyear  acquired 
from  him  by  Thomas  Rous,1  against  whom  a  fine  was  levied  in  1591  by 
Thomas  Gawdie  and  others,  but  either  by  way  of  mortgage  or  settlement.1 
In  1505  the  manor  was  acquired  from  Thomas  Rous  and  others  by  Thomas 
Aldrich,1  from  whom  four  years  later  it  passed  to  John  Clenche.4 
P>  In  the  middle  of  the  i8th  century  we  hear  of  it  again  as  vested  in 
Ellis  Brand,1  who  seems,  however,  to  have  held  a  moiety  only.  He  died 
in  1759,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  John  Brand,  who  died  in 
1764,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  John  Brand,  of  Hemingston, 
and  on  his  death  in  1803  the  manor  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Brand. 
No  courts  seem  to  have  been  held  for  a  long  time,  and  probably  the  manor 
is  extinct.  Davy  says  :  "  The  greater  part  of  the  present  house  is  modern, 
the  only  remains  of  old  buildings  appear  on  the  side  of  the  mere  on  the 
front  side  of  the  house  in  a  mass  of  flints  and  mortar,  perhaps  the  remains 
of  the  old  bridge." 

Arms  of  BISHOP  :  Arg.  on  a  bend  cotised  Gu.  3  bezants. 

CLEVE'S  al.  BLOMVILLES  MANOR. 

We  find  nothing  respecting  this  manor  save  that  it  is  included  in  two 
fines  in  1527  and  1589  respectively.  One  is  levied  by  Thomas  Walle  and 
others  against  Charles,  Duke  of  Suffolk,6  and  the  other  by  Anthony  Gosnold 
and  others  against  William  Collett  and  others.7  This  is  possibly  the  manor 
of  which  Page  speaks  when  he  says  Mr.  Barnes,  of  Sotterley,  who  held 
a  lordship  in  the  parish  of  Burgh  in  1764,  purchased  with  the  advowson 
from  the  family  of  Betts,  and  his  representative  still  (1847)  owns  it.  Davy 
states  that  the  manor  was  held  by  William  Blois  in  1621,  and  has  since 
passed  with  the  main  manor  of  Burgh. 


Fine.  Easter,  6  Eliz.  *  For   arms   see    Edwardstone    Manor,  in 
Fine.  Trin.  33  Eliz.  Babergh  Hundred. 

Fmr,  Mi-h.  37-38  Eliz.  'fine.  Easter,  19  Hen.  VIII. 

4  Fine,  Mkh.  41-43  Eli*.  '  Fine,  Easter,  31  Eliz. 


CLOPTON.  23 

CLOPTON. 

OUR  several  manors  are  enumerated  here  in  the  Domesday 
Survey.  One  was  amongst  the  possessions  of  Ralph 
Peverell,  who  held  i  carucate  and  42  acres,  which  had  been 
held  in  the  Confespor's  time  by  Edric  Grim  under  commenda- 
tion half  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely  and  half  to  the  predecessor  of 
Robert  Malet.  To  this  manor  were  attached  2  villeins 
and  13  bordars.  In  Saxon  times  there  had  been  3  plough- 
teams  in  demesne  and  2  belonging  to  the  tenants,  5  acres  of  meadow,  8 
beasts,  80  sheep,  valued  at  6os.  By  the  time  of  the  Survey  there  were  but  2 
ploughteams  in  demesne  though  another  might  have  been  made  up,  and 
there  was  i  plough  team  less  belonging  to  the  men.  There  was  wood 
sufficient  for  10  hogs  and  I  rouncy,  but  the  beasts  had  come  down  to  3, 
the  sheep  to  20,  and  the  value  reduced  by  405.  This  manor  was  then  held 
by  Thorold  of  Ralph  Peverell.  There  was  also  a  church  benefice  having  15 
acres,  "  de  quatuor  dominationibus  "  valued  at  2s.1 

The  second  manor  was  amongst  the  possessions  of  Roger  de  Poictou, 
and  consisted  of  one  carucate  and  22  acres,  which  in  the  Confessor's  time 
had  been  held  by  Uluric,  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Harold.  A 
villein,  6  bordars,  i  serf,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne,  4  acres  of  meadow, 
a  ploughteam  belonging  to  the  tenants,  and  one  rouncy,  were  attached  to 
the  manor  in  Saxon  times,  and  the  value  was  405.  By  the  time  of  the 
Survey  the  ploughteam  of  the  men  had  disappeared,  and  the  rouncy  had 
gone,  but  there  were  in  lieu  4  beasts  and  80  sheep.  The  value  had  come 
down  from  405.  to  2is.  "  It,"  presumably  the  whole  place,  "  was  one 
league  long  and  half  a  league  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  "  i$d.  The  last- 
mentioned  manor  was  held  by  Roger  de  Poictou  in  demesne  ;  and  he  also 
had  here  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  the  above  Uluric  in  the  Con- 
fessor's time,  holding  one  acre  and  a  half,  valued  at  %d.  Roger,  son  of 
Ernald,  held  this  of  Roger  de  Poictou.2 

A  third  manor  was  amongst  the  possessions  of  the  Countess  of  Albe- 
marle.  She  held  what  Burric,  a  freeman  under  Ralph  the  Staller,  had  held 
in  the  Confessor's  time,  namely,  i  carucate  and  20  acres,  n  bordars,  and 
2  ploughteams  in  demesne  with  4  acres  of  meadow,  10  hogs,  and  35  sheep. 
In  Saxon  times  there  had  also  been  2  ploughteams  belonging  to  the  tenants, 
but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  there  was  but  i.  The  value  had  always 
stood  at  405.  The  Countess  also  held  6  acres  (which  Ulwin  the  priest 
kept),  valued  at  I2d. ;  and  12  and  a  half  freemen  under  commendation  to 
Burric  in  the  Confessor's  time,  they  having  92  acres  and  2  bordars,  3  plough- 
teams,  and  i  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  i6s.  4^.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey 
one  of  the  ploughteams  had  gone.3 

The  fourth  manor  was  amongst  the  possessions  of  William  de  Arcis,  and 
had  been  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  Edmund  the  priest,  a  freeman 
under  the  Abbot  of  Ely.  It  consisted  of  i  carucate  and  22  acres,  i  villein, 
and  7  bordars,  formerly  having  3  ploughteams  in  demesne,  i  belonging  to 
the  tenants,  4  acres  of  meadow,  4  beasts,  40  hogs,  30  sheep,  valued  at  305. 
By  the  time  of  the  Survey  two  of  the  ploughteams  in  demesne  had  dis- 
appeared and  half  a  team  of  the  tenants.  One  rouncy  seems  to  have  been 
left,  but  the  statement  is  made  that  all  the  stock  had  disappeared  and 

'  Dom.  ii.  4176.  3Dom.  ii.  431,  4316. 

*Dom.  ii.  3466. 


24  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

nothing  remained.  The  value  had  come  down  to  los.  This  manor  was 
held  by  Bernard  de  St.  Audoin  of  William  de  Arcis,  the  Domesday  tenant 
in  chief.1 

There  were  three  other  small  holdings  in  Clopton  at  the  time  of  the 
Domesday  Survey.  One  was  of  2  freemen  under  commendation  to  Edric 
having  40  acres,  and  half  a  ploughteam  valued  at  75. 4**.  Tiger  held  one  of 
these  freemen  and  Gilbert  de  Colville  the  other  of  Robert  Malet.' 

The  second  was  2  freemen  and  a  half  under  commendation,  half  to  the 
Abbot  of  Ely  and  half  to  Edric,  holding  14  acres  formerly  with  half  a 
ploughteam,  which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  had  disappeared,  valued  at 

25.  7<f. 

They  were  held  by  Hugh  de  Montfort  as  tenant  in  chief.3  The  third 
holding  was  that  of  Hamond,  who  held  of  Humphrey  the  Chamberlain,  20 
acres  and  i  bordar,  valued  at  55.* 

The  manor  and  lands  in  Clopton  subsequently  formed  four  manors, 
known  as  Clopton  Hall  or  King's  Hall,  Brendhall,  Rouse  Hall,  and 
Wascolies  or  Westerlyes  (olitn  Naunton's). 

MANOR  OF  CLOPTON  HALL  als.  KING'S  HALL. 

This  was  the  manor  held  in  Saxon  times  by  Burric,  a  freeman  under 
Ralph  the  Staller,  and  by  Adeliza,  Countess  of  Albemarle,  wife  of  Odo, 
Count  of  Champagne,  at  the  time  of  the  Domesday  Survey.  She  was  the 
sister  of  William  the  Conqueror,  and  Odo  was  her  third  husband.  He 
joined  with  others  in  1095  in  a  conspiracy  to  depose  William  Rufus,  and  to 
place  Stephen  (afterwards  King)  upon  the  throne,  and  for  his  rebellious 
conduct  suffered  imprisonment,  and  in  confinement  died  about  1108. 
He  left  a  son,  Stephen,  Earl  of  Albemarle,  his  successor,  and  heir  to  his 
mother.  Stephen  stood  faithful  to  his  sovereign  during  the  contest  between 
him  and  his  brother,  Robert  Curthose,  and  subsequently  went  with  the 
latter  to  the  Holy  Land,  and  distinguished  himself  in  the  victory  over  the 
infidels  near  Antioch.  After  his  return  to  this  country  he  joined  Hugh  de 
Gornay  in  an  unsuccessful  attempt  to  depose  King  Hen.  I.  in  favour  of 
Robert  Curthose,  and  made  a  similar  effort  afterwards  for  Curthose's  son, 
Prince  William.  He  married  Hawise,  daughter  of  Ralph  de  Mortimer,  and 
had  three  sons  and  four  daughters.  He  died  in  1127,  and  the  manor  passed 
to  his  eldest  son,  William,  called  "  Le  Gros,"  3rd  Earl  of  Albemarle.5  This 
third  Earl  was  a  person  of  considerable  note,  and  in  1138  acted  as  leader  of 
the  nobles,  who  defeated  the  Scots  in  the  Battle  of  the  Standard  at  North 
Allerton  under  David,  King  of  Scotland.  The  Earl  of  Albemarle  for  his 
services  was  created  Earl  of  Yorkshire,  and  subsequently  shared  in  the  defeat 
of  King  Stephen  at  the  Battle  of  Lincoln.  He  married  Cicily,  daughter 
of  William  Fitz  Duncan,  Earl  of  Moray  (nephew  of  Malcolm,  King  of 
Scotland),  and  had  two  daughters,  Hawise  and  Amicia,6  Hawise  married 
24th  Jan.  1180,  William  de  Mandeville,  3rd  Earl  of  Essex.  William 
Le  Gros  died  2Oth  Aug.  1179,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest 
daughter  Hawise,  and  subsequently  vested  in  her  husband,  William  de 


1  Dom.  ii.  4316. 

•Dom.  ii.  3156. 

'Dom.  ii.  4066. 

•Dom.  ii.  433. 

>  Ann* :  Gul.  a  cross  patonee  varry. 


'She  was  mother  of  John,  father  of  John 
de  Eston,  or  Aston,  who  claimed 
the  Honor  of  Albemarle  in  1278  as 
the  right  heir,  the  issue  of  the  elder 
sister  and  coheir  having  then 
become  extinct. 


CLOPTON.  25 

Mandeville.  He  died  i4th  Nov.  1189,  without  issue,  and  his  widow 
remarried  William  de  Fortibus,  Baron  of  Clein,  who  became  in  his  wife's 
right  Earl  of  Albemarle  and  Lord  of  Holderness,  and  was  made  by  Rich.  I. 
one  of  the  Admirals  of  the  Fleet  in  which  that  monarch  sailed  towards  the 
Holy  Land.  His  lordship  died  not  in  Palestine,  as  some  say,  in  1151,  but 
in  England  in  1195,  leaving  a  son  and  heir,  William  de  Fortibus;  but  as 
Hawise,  the  deceased  lord's  wife,  took  unto  herself  at  the  instigation  of 
King  Rich.  I.  a  third  husband,  Baldwin  de  Bethune,  Earl  of  the  Isle  of  Wight, 
William  was  postponed  in  the  enjoyment  both  of  the  Earldom  of  Albemarle, 
and  this  manor  until  Baldwin's  death,  i3th  Oct.  1213.  William  de  Fortibus, 
7th  Earl  of  Albemarle,  had  in  1214  a  confirmation  of  all  the  lands  of  his 
mother.  He  was  one  of  the  famous  25  Barons  chosen  to  enforce  the 
provisions  of  the  Magna  Charta,  but  subsequently  deserted  his  party  and 
stood  resolutely  by  the  King.  He  shared  in  the  Royal  victory  at 
Lincoln  in  1217,  and  eventually  died  on  his  way  to  the  Holy  Land  22nd 
Mar.  1241-2,  being  it  is  said,  starved  to  death  in  the  Levant.  He  married 
Aveline,  2nd  daughter  and  coheir  of  Richard  de  Montfichet,  and  was 
succeeded  by  his  son,  William  de  Fortibus,  8th  Earl  of  Albemarle.  He 
married  ist  Christian  or  Devorgill,  eldest  daughter  and  coheir  of  Alan,  Lord 
of  Galloway,  and  on  her  death  in  1245-6,  without  issue,  he  married  2ndly 
Isabel,  only  daughter  of  Baldwin  de  Reviers,  7th  Earl  of  Devon  and 
of  Amicia  de  Clare,  by  whom  he  had  three  sons  and  one  daughter 
only,  Aveline,  surviving.  The  Earl  died  in  1260  at  Amiens,1  and  his 
two  surviving  sons  shortly  afterwards  (Thomas,  his  father's  successor, 
was  only  7  years  of  age  when  his  father  died),  when  the  manor  vested 
in  the  daughter,  Aveline  de  Fortibus,  whose  wardship  was  granted  by 
the  King  to  Richard  de  Clare,  Earl  of  Gloucester,  for  the  whole  term 
of  15  years  of  her  minority.  This  grant,  however,  was  shortly  after 
surrendered,  and  the  King  conferred  the  guardianship  of  the  heiress  on  his 
eldest  son,  Prince  Edward.  The  heiress  was  married  the  6th  April,  1269-70, 
to  Edmund  Plantagenet,  surnamed  Crouchback,  afterwards  Duke  of 
Lancaster,  second  son  of  Hen.  III.,  the  King  and  Queen,  almost  all  the 
nobility  of  England  attending  the  wedding.  She  died,  however,  in  1274,' 
without  issue,  and  her  enormous  possessions  passed  to  the  Crown. 

In  1304  the  manor  was  granted  by  the  Crown  to  Margaret,  widow  of 
Edmund,  Earl  of  Cornwall,  in  dower,  for  £12  part  thereof/  and  on  the  Patent 
Rolls  for  this  year  will  be  seen  not  only  the  grant,  but  also  a  mandate  to 
William  Melksop,  keeper  of  Clopton  Manor,  to  carry  into  effect  the  grant.4 
Margaret,  Countess  of  Cornwall,  died  in  1312,  and  thereupon  King  Edw.  II. 
committed  the  manor  to  William  de  Cletton  to  hold  during  pleasure.5 

In  1311  Alice  de  la  Leyghe  or  Legh  is  said  to  have  petitioned  Parliament 
for  the  manor.  She  was  the  wife  of  William  de  la  Legh.  On  what  right  the 
petition  was  based  does  not  appear,  nor  indeed  do  the  Rolls  of  Parliament 
afford  any  information  as  to  any  such  petition,  but  on  the  Patent  Rolls  for 
1314  we  meet  with  an  entry  not  respecting  the  manor,  but  as  to  lands  in 
Clopton  which  rather  throws  some  light  on  the  subject.  It  is  a  regrant  to 
William  de  la  Legh  and  Alice  his  wife  for  her  life,  of  certain  lands  and 
tenements  in  Clopton,  "  lately  held  in  dower  by  Margaret,  sometime 
Countess  of  Cornwall,  extended  at  £11.  gs.  gd.  a  year."  These,  the  entry 

1 1.P.M.,  1259-60,  44  Hen.  III.  File  24  (6).         4Ib. 

'I. P.M.,  izth  March,  1275,  3  Edw.  I.  31.  30riginalia,  6  Edw.  II.  4. 

3  Pat.  Rolls,  32  Edw.  I.  13. 


a6  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

states,  had  been  previously  granted  to  them  by  the  King,  but  by  reason 
of  an  ordinance  made  by  the  prelates,  earls,  and  nobles  of  the  realm  were 
taken  into  the  King's  hands.'  Further  on  the  Originalia  Rolls  for  the  18 
and  19  years  of  Edw.  II.  [1325-6]  we  find  two  entries  which  go  to  show  that 
the  Crown  still  maintained  its  hold  on  the  manor.  The  first  is  a  grant  by 
the  King  at  the  request  of  Isabella,  Queen  of  England,  to  Alic  Leverage  of 
the  custody  of  all  the  lands  which  Margaret,  Countess  of  Cornwall,  deceased, 
late  held  in  Clopton,1  and  the  second  is  an  order  to  take  into  the  hands  of  the 
King  certain  lands  in  Clopton,  which  Margaret,  Countess  of  Cornwall, 
deceased,  held  in  dower,  and  which  the  King  had  lately  granted  to  William 
de  la  Legh  and  Alice  his  wife.5 

In  1327  we  find  on  the  Patent  Rolls  a  grant  to  Queen  Isabella  for  life, 
by  way  of  dower,  of  lands  said  to  have  been  formerly  held  by  Margaret, 
late  Countess  of  Cornwall,  of  the  value  of  20  marks  a  year.4  And  the  follow- 
ing year  on  the  Originalia  Rolls  is  an  order  in  favour  of  Alice,  "  formerly 
wife  of  William  de  k  Legh,"  in  respect  of  lands  in  Clopton,  "  which  Mar- 
garet, Countess  of  Cornwall,  deceased,  held  in  dower."5  Also  from  the  same 
Rolls  we  leam  that  two  years  later,  John  de  Carleford  rendered  to  the 
King  20  marks  per  annum  for  the  custody  of  lands  in  Clopton,  formerly 
belonging  to  Margaret,  Countess  of  Cornwall.6  In  1331  and  1332  there  are 
on  the  Patent  Rolls  confirmation  of  leases  of  the  manor  made  by  John  de 
Eltham,  Earl  of  Cornwall.  The  first  is  to  John  de  Carleford  for  life/ 
and  the  second  is  to  John  de  Sekford  for  life.8 

The  Davy  MSS.  state  that  in  1331  John  Lenne,  clerk,  held  the  manor 
as  trustee,  and  that  he  died  in  1377.  The  manor  is  certainly  mentioned  in 
his  inquisition  p.m.  in  1377.' 

Further,  they  state  that  in  1332  Elizabeth  de  Burgh,  daughter  of  Gilbert 
de  Clare,  Earl  of  Gloucester,  relict  of  Sir  Roger  D'Amorie,  held  the  manor 
for  life,  with  remainder  to  John,  Lord  Bardolf,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife, 
her  daughter,  by  exchange  with  the  Crown,  and  in  confirmation  of  this  we 
find  amongst  the  Ministers'  Accounts  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office 
accounts  for  1336  "  of  land  after  transferred  to  Elizabeth  de  Burgh."1 
Elizabeth  de  Burgh,  after  marrying  Theobald  de  Verdon,  died  in  1360, 
seised  of  the  manor,  and  an  extent  will  be  found  in  her  inquisition  p.m. 
this  year."  Further  on  the  Originalia  Rolls  will  be  found  an  order  the 
following  year  to  accept  security  from  John  Bardolf  and  Elizabeth  his  wife, 
for  reasonable  relief  in  respect  of  the  manor.12  Amongst  the  Ancient  Deeds 
preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office  may  be  seen  a  lease  dated  3oth  Nov. 
37  Edw.  III.  [1363],  by  Queen  Philippa  to  Simon  Noreys,  rector  of  the  church 
of  Castor  in  Flegg,  and  to  John  de  Repynghale,  of  the  wardship  of  the  Manor 
of  Clopton,  which  belonged  to  Sir  John  de  Bardolf,  Knt.,  to  whom  the 
wardship  had  been  granted  by  the  King  during  the  minority  of  the  heir  ;  to 
hold  from  the  death  of  the  said  Sir  John  de  Bardolf  until  the  said  heir  should 
attain  full  age,  reserving  to  the  Queen  the  knights'  fees,  advowson  of  churches, 
&c.,  together  with  incidents  of  feudal  tenure.'1 


1  Pat.  Rolls,  8  Edw.  II.  pt.  ii.  2. 

•0.,  18  Edw.  II.  a. 

JO.,  19  Edw.  II.  2. 

4  Pat.  Rolls,  i  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  2. 

>  O.,  2  Edw.  III.  10. 

•O.,  4  Edw.  III.  17. 

»Pat.  Rolls,  5  Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  9. 


•  Pat.  Rolls,  6  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  5. 
»I.P.M.,  51  Edw.  III.  20. 
10 10    Edw.  III.  Bundle    1094,   No.  13; 

Bundle  1095,  No.  35. 
•'  I.P.M.,  34  Edw.  III.  83. 
"O.,  35  Edw.  III.  i. 
IJC.  758  Originalia,  44  Edw.  III.  17. 


CLOPTON.  27 

John,  Lord  Bardolf,  died  5th  Aug.  1363,'  when  the  manor  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  William  Bardolf,  Lord  Bardolf  de  Wirmegay,  then  14 
years  of  age,  "  whose  wardship  and  marriage,"  says  Banks,1  was  granted 
by  Queen  Philippa,  wife  of  Edw.  III.,  to  Michael  de  Poynings,  Lord  Poynings, 
to  the  intent  that  "  he  might  marry  Agnes,  daughter  of  the  said  Michael." 
He  did  marry  this  Agnes. 

In  1382  William,  Lord  Bardolf,  appears  to  have  settled  the  manor, 
and  in  order  to  effect  the  settlement  obtained  licence  to  grant  to  John  de 
Cleye  or  Clay,  parson  of  Ravenham.3  This  trustee  died  in  1403." 

William,  Lord  Bardolf,  died  before  Jan.  1385-6,'  when  a  third  of  the 
manor  passed  in  dower  to  his  widow  Agnes  (who  took  for  a  second  husband 
Sir  Thomas  de  Mortimer),6  and  subject  thereto  the  manor  passed  to  William's 
son  and  heir  Thomas.  Agnes,  Lady  Bardolf,  died  I2th  June,  1403.* 

Thomas,  Lord  Bardolf  de  Wirmegay  or  de  Wormegay,  was  a  person  of 
eminence  in  his  time.  In  1382  he  married  Joane,  daughter  of  Ralph  Crom- 
well, Lord  Cromwell,  of  Tatshall,  but  in  1405  taking  part  with  Henry,  Earl 
of  Northumberland,  and  others,  in  the  insurrection  against  King  Hen.  IV., 
and  being  pursued  by  the  royal  army  in  great  force,  was  obliged  to  fly  the 
kingdom.  He  returned,  however,  after  an  absence  of  three  years,  and  was 
present  with  the  Earl  of  Northumberland  at  the  battle  of  Bramham  Moor, 
igth  Feb.  1407-8,  where  that  unhappy  nobleman  was  defeated  and  slain, 
and  Lord  Bardolf  so  severely  wounded  that  he  died  of  his  injuries  shortly 
afterwards.  Page  informs  us  that  he  was  attainted  and  executed  for 
rebellion.  This,  however,  was  not  the  case.  It  is  true  he  was  attainted, 
but  this  was  after  his  death.  Dugdale  says  that  his  remains  were  quartered, 
and  the  quarters  disposed  of  by  being  set  upon  the  gates  of  London,  York, 
Lenne,  and  Shrewsbury,  while  the  head  was  placed  upon  one  of  the  gates 
of  Lincoln.  His  widow  obtained  permission,  however,  in  a  short  time  to 
remove  and  bury  the  remains.  She  died  ist  July,  1421.  Thomas,  5th 
Lord  Bardolf,  left  two  daughters  and  coheirs — Anne,  married  ist  to  Sir  William 
Clifford,  Knt.,  and  2ndly,  to  Reginald,  Lord  Cobham,  of  Sterborough;  and 
Joane,  the  wife  of  Sir  William  Phelip,  K.G.,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John 
Phelip,  Knt.,  of  Dennington. 

This  manor  passed  to  Thomas,  Lord  Bardolf 's,  brother,  Sir  William 
Bardolf,  together  with  Scrotchy,  in  Norfolk,  but  the  Barony  of  Wirmegay, 
and  the  larger  Bardolf  possessions  were  forfeited  and  divided  by  the  King 
between  Thomas  Beaufort,  Duke  of  Exeter,  his  brother,  Sir  George  Dunbar, 
Knt.,  and  the  Queen.  The  estates  apportioned  to  the  Queen  were  upon  the 
petition  to  the  King  of  Sir  William  Clifford  and  his  wife,  and  Sir  William 
Phelip  and  his  wife,  granted  in  reversion  after  the  Queen's  decease  to  the 
representatives  of  the  attainted  noblemen. 

Neither  Burke  nor  Banks  mention  this  Sir  William  Bardolf.  He 
died  in  1424  without  issue,8  and  in  the  following  year  Joan  his  widow,  and 
Richard  Selling,  her  husband,  released  the  manor  for  an  annuity  to  the 
ladies,  Anne  Clifford  and  Joan  Phelip,  the  5th  Lord  Bardolf 's  two  daughters. 

Sir  William  Phelip  was  a  Knight  of  the  Garter  and  Treasurer  of  the 
Household  to  King  Hen.  V.  He  came  from  Dennington,  under  the  manor 

1  See   Manor   of   Ilketshall  Bardolph's,  in  3  pat.  Rolls,  6  Rich.  II.  pt.  i.  16. 

Wangford    Hundred.      Blomefield  'I.P.M.,  4  Hen.  IV.  32. 

states  that  John,   Lord  Bardolph,  *  Will,  izth  Sep.  1385. 

died  in  the  45  Edw.  III.  [1371],  "I.P.M.,  21  Rich.  II.  46. 

Aug.  3.  7I.P.M.,  4  Hen.  IV.  39. 

« Baronage,  ii.  27.  8 1.P.M.,  2  Hen.  VI.  34- 


28  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

of  which  place  an  account  of  him  will  be  found.  He  died  6th  June  1441,' 
seised  of  this  lordship,  and  also  of  the  Manors  of  Ilketshall,  Brockley, 
Brundish,  Cretingham,  Wilby,  and  Dennington.*  His  widow  had  an  annuity 
out  of  this  manor,  and  died  I2th  March,  1446-7.'  Anna,  wife  of  Sir  Reginald 
Cobham,  died  in  1454.* 

Sir  William  Phelip,5  styled  Lord  Bardolf,  left  by  his  wife  Joane  an  only 
daughter,  Elizabeth,  married  to  John,  Viscount  Beaumont,  so  created  by 
letters  patent  bearing  date  I4th  Feb.  1440,  being  the  first  person  ever  dignified 
with  that  title  in  England.  In  1445  he  had  another  grant  to  himself  and 
the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  of  place  and  precedence  above  all  viscounts 
thereafter  to  be  created,  and  to  take  place  next  and  immediately  after 
Earls  in  all  parliaments  and  public  meetings.  He  fought  bravely  against  the 
House  of  York,  and  was  slain  in  the  second  battle  of  Northampton,  loth 
July,  1460.  He  had  a  son  Henry,  who  died  in  his  father's  lifetime  at  the 
early  age  of  9,  and  a  son  William,  who  succeeded  his  father  as  2nd  Viscount 
Beaumont,  and  to  him  this  manor  passed. 

William,  Viscount  Beaumont,  adhering  to  the  Lancastrian  interest, 
participated  in  the  hard  fate  which  befeJ  that  House  ;  for,  being  taken 
prisoner  at  Towton  Field  in  1460,  he  was  attainted  by  Parliament  the 
following  year,  and  divers  of  his  manors  given  to  Loid  Hastings.6  On  the 
Patent  Rolls  in  1464  is  a  grant  to  Thomas,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and 
George,  Bishop  of  Exeter,  and  Joan,  wife  of  Sir  William  Beaumont,  and  the 
heirs  of  his  body,  ot  this  manor  and  the  Manors  of  Dennington,  Ilketshall, 
Brundish,  Cretingham,  and  other  lands/  and  in  1467  King  Edw.  IV. 
granted  the  manor  to  Sir  John  Scotte,  Knt.,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 
body,  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions,  and  services  in  Clopton,  late  of 
William,  late  Lord  Beaumont,  in  the  King's  hands  by  forfeiture.8 

William,  Viscount  Beaumont,  subsequently  took  part  with  John,  the 
Earl  of  Oxford  who  fled  from  Barnet  Field  in  1470.  They  retired  into 
Scotland,  then  into  France.  Landing  in  Cornwall  in  1474  they  were  both 
taken  prisoners  by  the  Sheriff  and  brought  to  King  Edw.  IV.,  who  sent  them 
to  the  Castle  of  Hamms  in  Picardy,  where  they  continued  till  restored 
by  King  Hen.  VII.,  and  an  Act  of  Parliament  passed,  7th  Nov.  in  the  first 
year  of  his  reign.  William  died  28th  Dec.  1507.  He  had  married  ist  Joan, 
2nd  daughter  of  Humphrey  Stafford,  ist  Duke  of  Buckingham,  and  2ndly 
Elizabeth,  niece  of  John,  5th  Lord  Scrope,  of  Bolton,  but  had  no  issue  by 
either. 

His  sister,  Joan's  son  Francis,  Lord  Lovell,  was  his  heir,  and  would 
have  succeeded  had  he  not  been  attainted  by  Parliament  for  taking  part 
with  King  Rich.  III.  at  Bosworth,  and  later  with  Lambert  Simnel  in  the 
Battle  of  Stoke,  near  Newark-upon-Trent,  where,  in  fact,  he  was  slain 
i6th  June,  1487. 

The  manor  subsequently  vested  in  the  Crown,  and  King  Hen.  VIII. 
in  1518  granted  it,  together  with  the  Manors  of  Dennington,  Brundish, 
llketshall  Bardolphs,  Cretingham  alias  Tyes,  and  others,  to  Sir  Richard 
Wingfield,  Knt.,  and  his  heirs  male.  Sir  Richard  Wingfield  was  the  8th 
son  of  Sir  John  Wingfield,  of  Letheringham,  Knt.,  by  Elizabeth  his  wife, 
daughter  of  Sir  John  Lewes. 

'  Will,  ist  Dec.  1438  and  3oth  May,  1441,  'See    Manor    of    Dennington,  in    Hoxne 

proved  at  Lambeth.  Hundred. 

'I.P.M..  19  Hen.  VI.  30.  •I.P.M.,  3  Edw.  IV.  30. 

'I.P.M.,  25  Hen.  VI.  29,  30.  'Pat.  Rolls,  4  Edw.  IV.  pt.  ii.  28. 

•I.P.M.,  32  Hen.  VI.  26.  «Pat.  Rolls,  7  Ed*.  IV.  pt.  i.  10. 


CLOPTON.  2g 

This  Sir  Richard  Wingfield  married  Bridget,  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir 
John  Wilshire,  Knt,  with  whom  he  had  Stonehouse  or  Stone  Castle,  near 
Gravesend,  in  Kent.  He  attended  Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  on 
the  occasion  of  his  conducting  Mary,  the  Queen  Dowager  of  France,  into 
England,  and  was  in  1518  admitted  one  of  the  King's  Privy  Council,  in  1522 
Knight  of  the  Garter,  and  by  means  of  the  Emperor  Maximillian,  also 
Knight  of  the  Golden  Fleece,  with  an  annual  pension  of  £200.  This  same 
year  Sir  Richard,  with  Sir  Richard  Fermingham,  commanded  the  rear  of 
the  English  army  which  invaded  France,  and  was  also  Chancellor  of  the 
Duchy  of  Lancaster.  He  built  new  offices  and  galleries  upon  the  old 
foundation  of  Kimbolton  Castle,  making  the  same  exceedingly  strong,  and 
environed  the  same  with  a  double  ditch.  Being  Ambassador  in  Spain  he 
died  there,  and  was  buried  at  Toledo.  The  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Charles  Wingfield,  of  Kimbolton  Castle,  who  sold  the  manor,  and 
also  the  Manors  of  Brundish,  Dennington,  Ilketshall  Bardolphs,  Cretting- 
ham,  Tyes,  and  others,  in  1539,  to  Anthony  Rous,  of  Dennington,1  who  in 
1541  obtained  a  confirmation  or  grant  from  the  Crown.  From  Sir  Anthony 
to  Sir  John  Rous,  who  was  created  a  Baronet  in  1660,  the  manor  passed 
in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Henham,  in  Blything  Hundred.  It  is 
specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Sir  Anthony,  who  died 
8th  Feb.  I545-"  John  Rous,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John,  held  his  first  court 
I4th  Oct.  1652,  and  other  courts  3rd  June,  1654  ;  4th  May,  1657  >  23r(l 
Oct.  1657  ;  20tl1  MaY>  J658  i  I2tn  June,  1658  ;  26th  Oct.  1658  ;  5th  May, 
1659  J  2oth  June>  I66° ;  9tn  April,  1661  ;  25th  April,  1661 ;  24th  Oct. 
1661 ;  5th  June,  1662  ;  23rd  Oct.  1662  ;  2ist  Sept.  1663  ;  6th  Oct.  1664  ; 
26th  Oct.  1675  ;  I5th  July,  1669  ;  6th  Oct.  1670 ;  5th  Oct.  1671  ;  2nd 
Nov.  167*1 ;  gth  Oct.  1673  ;  3Oth  April,  1674  ;  15th  July,  1675  ;  7th  Oct. 
1675,  &c. 

In  1684  Arnald  Browne  held  his  first  court,  and  William  Betts,  of 
Yoxford,  his  first  court  23rd  Oct.  1693.  It  is  not  unlikely  that  a  John  Betts 
held  before  William,  for  amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  the  time  of 
Queen  Elizabeth  we  find  a  claim  by  John  Betts  against  Margaret  Deaves 
and  George  Booke  for  production  of  deeds  relating  to  Clopton  Hall.3 

William  Betts  married  Dorothy,  daughter  of  Thomas  Mann  of  Yoxford, 
and  held  courts  2nd  Oct.  1701  ;  1st  Nov.  1703  ;  3ist  Oct.  1704  ;  3ist  Oct. 
1705  ;  4th  April,  1707  ;  25th  Sept.  1707  ;  3rd  Nov.  1707  ;  and  7th  Mar. 
1708.  His  will  is  dated  I7th  Jan.  1708,  and  he  was  buried  at  Yoxford 
3rd  Mar.  1709,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Betts, 
who  died  without  issue  in  1716,  when  the  lordship  vested  in  his  brother  and 
heir,  Henry  Betts,  who  married  Elizabeth,  and  died  i8th  Nov.  1721,*  when 
it  passed  to  his  widow  Elizabeth.  She  held  courts  nth  Jan.  1730 ;  gth 
July,  1742  ;  I7th  July,  1744  ;  gth  Oct.  1744  ;  2ist  Aug.  1746  ;  2Oth  Oct. 
1747  ;  1st  Nov.  1748  ;  I2th  Aug.  1749  ;  6th  Oct.  1750  ;  2ist  Oct.  1751  ; 
I2th  May,  1752  ;  gth  June,  1752  ;  I7th  Oct.  1752  ;  igth  Mar.  1753  ;  5th 
Nov.  1753  ;  igth  Jan.  1754 ;  24th  June,  1754 ;  2ist  Oct.  1754 ;  gth 
Aug.  1757  ;  i6th  Aug.  1758  ;  I3th  Dec.  1759  ;  gth  March,  1764  ;  I4th 
Aug.  1764  ;  2nd  April,  1765  ;  and  died  in  1774,'  when  the  manor  passed  to 
Rebecca,  daughter  and  eventual  heir  of  Henry  Betts,6  manied  to  Edmund 
Anguish,  from  whom  the  manor  went  to  their  only  child  Anne,  married 

»  Fine,  Hil.  31  Hen.  VIII.  >  Will,  Aug.  1771,  proved  2gth  Dec.  1774. 

» I.P.M.,  i  Edw.  VI.  6His  son  William    having  died  without 

3  C.P.  i.  83.  issue  in  1771. 

4  Will,  29th  July,  1731. 


30  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK, 

to  Matthew  Rapcr,  of  VVendover  Dean,  co.  Bucks.,  on  whose  death,  26th 
Nov.  1826,  it  devolved  on  Felix  Vincent  Raper,  a  Lieut-.Col.  in  the  service 
of  the  East  India  Company,  who  held  a  court  for  the  manor  I3th  April, 
1830,  and  again  7th  Sept.  1835,  2Oth  May,  1839,  and  his  last  court  3ist  May, 

1849.  He  died  I4th  Nov.  1849,  when  the  manor  passed  under  his  will  to 
his  widow  and  Chas.  Fraser  as  trustees.    They  held  a  court  23rd  May, 

1850.  In  1852,  after  the  widow's  death,  Chas.  Fraser,  as  surviving  trustee, 
sold  this  with  the  three  other  manors  in  Clopton  by  deed  dated  I7th  May, 
1864  (Joseph  Beaumont,  of  Great  Coggeshall,  concurring  in  the  assurance)  to 
Joseph  Erek,  Thomas  Cree  the  younger,  and  Richard  Stevens  in  undivided 
thira  shares.      By  deed  dated  4th  Jan.  1865,  Joseph  Erek  conveyed  his 
undivided  third  share  to  Joseph  Beaumont,  and  by  deed  dated  24th  Feb. 
1871,  the  said  Thomas  Cree,  Richard  Stevens,  and  Joseph  Beaumont  con- 
veyed the  whole  of  the  four  manors  to  John  Frederick  Robinson,  of  Hadleigh. 

By  indenture  dated  loth  Jan.  1872,  John  Frederick  Robinson  conveyed 
the  same  four  manors  to  William  Sidney  Calvert,  of  East  Bergholt.  Ten 
years  later,  by  deed  dated  4th  Jan.  1882,  the  said  William  Sidney  Calvert 
conveyed  the  four  manors  to  Edward  Broughton  Rouse,  M.A.,  LL.D., 
of  Ipswich,  and  he,  by  deed  dated  ist  Sept.  1883,  conveyed  this  manor  and 
the  Manor  of  Rousehall  to  Herbert  Rouse  Brewster  de  Medewe,  of  Carlton 
House,  Amhurst  Road,  co.  Middlesex,  who,  by  deed  dated  2oth  Aug.  1908, 
conveyed  the  two  last  named  manors  to  the  Hon.  Alexander  Hewitt  Kerr, 
of  Portland,  Oregon,  United  States  of  America,  who  is  the  present  holder  of 
these  two  lordships,  as  also  of  the  other  manors  of  Clopton.  The  parcels 
of  the  deed  of  1864,  practically  adopted  in  the  subsequent  assurance,  were : 
"  All  that  the  Manor  or  Lordship  of  Brentha  alias  Brendhall  in  Clopton  or 
elsewhere  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  or  by  whatsoever  other  name  or  names 
the  same  is  or  has  been  called  or  known.  And  also  all  that  the  Manor  or 
Lordship  of  King's  Hall,  alias  Kinshall  in  Clopton  aforesaid  or  elsewhere,  &c. 
And  also  all  that  the  Manor  or  Lordship  of  Rouse  Hall  in  Clopton  or  else- 
where or  by  whatsoever  other  name  or  names,  &c.  And  all  that  Manor  or 
Lordship  of  Wascolies  alias  Wastcolies  in  Clopton  aforesaid  or  elsewhere, 
as  the  said  manors  are  situate,  lying  and  extending  in  the  towns,  fields,  and 
hamlets  of  Clopton  aforesaid,  and  in  Otley,  Burgh,  Grundisburgh,  Chars- 
field,  Deback,  Monewden,  Martlesham,  Woodbridge,  Hasketon,  and  Helm- 
sley,  or  any  of  them,  or  elsewhere  in  the  said  county  of  Suffolk,  together 
with  all  courts,  royalties,  privileges,  rights,  members,  and  appurtenances 
whatever  to  the  same  respectively  belonging  or  appertaining." 

The  present  lord  has  in  his  possession  16  original  Court  Rolls  of  this 
and  the  Manor  of  Rousehall,  commencing  with  the  25th  year  of  Queen 
Elizabeth  [1584]  and  continuing  up  to  the  year  1908,  when  the  last  court 
was  held. 

Court  Rolls  from  25th  to  27th  Edw.  I.  [1299  1301]  will  be  found  in 
the  Public  Record  Office.1 

Arms  of  FORTIBUS  :  Arg.  a  chief  Gu.  Of  BARDOLF  :  Az.  three  cinque- 
foils,  Or.  Of  BEAUMONT  :  Az.  a  lion  rampant  seme"e  de  lis  Or.  Of  RAPER  : 
Per  fesse  Az.  and  Arg.  a  pale  counterchanged  3  goats'  heads  erased,  Or. 

MANOR  OF  BRENTHA  alias  BRENDHALL. 

This  manor  was  held  in  the  time  of  Hen.  III.  by  Robert  de  Aula 
Combusta  or  Brendhall,  who  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  William 

1  Portfolio,  203,  73. 


CLOPTON.  3I 

de  Brendhall,  and  he  by  William  de  Aula  Combusta,  of  Clopton,  in  1284.  The 
next  lord  was  Nicholas  de  Brendhall,  who  had  the  manor  in  1291;  the  next 
Thomas  de  Aula  Combusta,  who  had  it  in  1298,  and  he  was  succeeded  by 
Nicholas  de  Aula  Combusta,  who  had  it  in  the  time  of  Edw.  III. 

Bartholomew  de  Burghersh  died  seised  of  the  manor  in  1369,'  from 
which  time  to  the  time  of  Richard  Le  Despenser  it  passed  in  the  same  course 
as  the  Manor  of  Carlton  Hall,  in  Carlton  Colville,  Mutford  Hundred.  The 
manor  is  specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Edward  Le 
Despenser,  who  died  nth  Nov.  1375.*  On  Richard  Le  Despenser  dying 
without  issue,  this  manor  does  not  appear  to  have  passed  to  his  sister,  but 
to  his  aunt,  Anne,  who  had  married  Sir  Hugh  Hastings,  Knt.,  of  Elsing 
and  Gressinghale,  in  Norfolk.  She  subsequently  married  Thomas,  Lord 
Morley,  of  Hingham,  in  Norfolk,  and  surviving  him,  died  seised  of  this 
manor,  as  also  of  Blaxhall  in  1426. 

In  the  time  of  Hen.  VIII.  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  Alice  Lewgore 
(the  wife  of  William  Lewgore),  who  died  seised  of  it  2yth  Feb.  I524,3  when 
it  passed  to  her  son  and  heir,  George  or  Gregory  Lewgore,  who  married 
Anne,  daughter  of  Edward  Latimer,  of  Freston,  and  died  igth  Jan.  1540,* 
when  it  passed  to  his  cousin  and  heir,  George  or  Gregory  Lewgore.  He 
married  Joane,  daughter  and  coheir  of  John  Frewar,  of  Hadleigh.  In 
1543  a  fine  of  the  manor  was  levied  by  Augustus  Parys,  clerk,  and 
others,  against  this  Gregory  Lewgore,5  and  in  1544  a  claim  was  made  upon 
him  and  his  wife  for  forfeiture  of  the  manor.6  In  1551  George  Lewgore 
sold  the  manor  to  Thomas  Codd,  alderman  of  Norwich,7  who  in  1557  was 
called  upon  to  show  title  to  the  manor.8  However,  he  died  seised  of  the 
manor  in  1558,  when  it  vested  in  his  cousin  and  heir,  Thomas  Codd, 
from  whom  it  passed  to  Thomas  Rous,  son  of  Sir  Anthony  Rous,  of  Henham. 
Thomas  Rous,  in  1562  was,  like  Thomas  Codd,  called  upon  to  show  title  to 
the  manor,9  but  seems  to  have  been  able  to  show  this  satisfactorily.  From 
the  time  of  this  Thomas  Rous,  to  the  time  of  Sir  John  Rous,  2nd  Bart.,  the 
manor  devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Henham,  in  Blything 
Hundred.  From  Sir  John  Rous,  2nd  Bart.,  the  manor  passed  to  Arnold 
Browne,  who  held  his  first  court  in  1684,  and  from  this  time  to  the  time  of 
Edward  Broughton  Rouse  in  1882,  the  manor  devolved  in  the  same  course  as 
the  main  Manor  of  Clopton.  Edward  Broughton  Rouse,  by  deed  dated  23rd 
May,  1908,  conveyed  this  manor  and  the  Manor  of  Wascolies  to  William 
James  Anton,  of  Bristol,  and  he,  by  deed  dated  27th  May  following,  con- 
veyed the  same  in  fee  to  the  Hon.  Alexander  Hewitt  Kerr,  of  Portland, 
Oregon,  United  States  of  America,  who  is  the  present  lord. 

The  Court  Rolls  of  this  manor  and  that  of  Wascolies,  commencing 
with  the  reign  of  Charles,  and  continuing  complete  up  to  the  present  time, 
are  in  the  possession  of  the  lord  of  the  manor. 

The  fines  are  arbitrary. 

The  custom  of  this  manor  is  that  the  youngest  son  is  heir,  the  widow 
is  entitled  to  one-third  for  dower,  and  forfeiture  is  incurred  for  taking  down 
trees  on  the  copyholds  without  the  lord's  licence. 

'I.P.M.,  43  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  14.  7Fine    Mich.  5  Edw.  VI. 

"I.P.M.,  49  Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  46.  8  Memoranda  Rolls,  4  and  5,  Phil,  and  M. 
'I.P.M.,  16  Hen.  VIII.  16.  Mich.  Rec.  Rot.  48. 

4 1.P.M.,  32  Hen.  VIII.  17.  » Memoranda  Rolls,  4  Eliz.,  Hil.  Rec.  Rot 
5  Fine,  Mich.  35  Hen.  VIII.  35- 

'Memoranda  Rolls,  36  Hen.  VIII.,  Pas. 
Rec.  Rot.  10. 


32  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Some  of  the  customary  freeholders  pay  in  addition  to  the  free  rent  a 
cast  It-ward  rent,  and  for  every  penny  of  such  rent  the  lord  takes  on  death 
or  alienation  a  castleward  relief  of  55. 

Courts  were  held  as  follows:  24th  Oct.  1698  (William  Betts,  lord); 
24th  Oct.  1700 ;  6th  Sept.  1703  ;  2gth  March,  1704 ;  3ist  Oct.  1705  ; 
28th  Sept.  1707  ;  2nd  Nov.  1708  ;  8th  Nov.  1709 ;  Thomas  Betts'  first 
court  6th  Nov.  1710  ;  3rd  April,  1712  ;  gth  Nov.  1713  ;  3rd  Feb.  1714 ; 
I4th  April,  1715  ;  3rd  May,  1715  ;  first  court  of  Henry  Betts,  nth  Oct. 
1716  ;  6th  May,  1717;  I2th  Nov.  1717  ;  6th  Oct.  1719  ;  3rd  Dec.  1722  ; 
27th  Sept.  1723 ;  7th  July,  1724  ;  6th  Dec.  1728 ;  3rd  Dec.  1731 ;  4th 
Feb.  1732  ;  30th  Oct.  1732  ;  1st  Aug.  1737  ;  4th  Aug.  1770  ;  1st  Oct. 
1771 ;  i8th  April,  20  Jac.  ;  3rd  Oct.  20  Car. ;  27th  March  II  Jac. ;  I2th 
June,  1660  ;  5th  Oct.  16  Jac. 

Arms  of  LEWGORE  :   Arg.  a  bend  ragulce  Vert.,  betw.  2  escallops  Gu. 

ROUSE  HALL  MANOR. 

This  was  the  estate  of  Uluric  in  Saxon  times,  and  of  Roger  de  Poictou 
in  the  time  of  William  the  Conqueror,  Roger  Fitz  Ernald  holding  under 
him.  It  passed  to  Ernald  Rufus  or  Le  Rus,  and  in  1201  was  the  lordship  of 
Sir  Ernald  le  Rous,  probably  his  grandson,  who  was  succeeded  by  his  son, 
Sir  William  le  Rous,  who  died  in  1253,'  when  it  went  to  Alice,  his  daughter, 
who  married  Sir  Richard  de  Brewse.  Sir  Richard  died  in  1296,  and  his 
wife  in  1300,  when  Davy  makes  out  that  the  manor  passed  to  their  son  and 
heir,  Sir  Giles  de  Brewse,  Knt.,  who  died  in  1310,  and  was  succeeded  by 
his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Richard  Brewse,  who  died  in  1323.  Margaret,  Sir 
Richard's  daughter  and  coheir,  married  Sir  John  Weyland.  Thus  Davy 
succeeds  in  getting  the  manor  into  the  Weyland  family,  but  there  are  a  few 
facts  against  this  imaginary  devolution.  First,  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied 
of  the  manor  in  1288  by  John  de  Weyland  and  Maria  his  wife  against 
Richard  de  Brewse  and  Alice  his  wife,1  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  by 
virtue  of  this  the  manor  became  vested  in  John  de  Weyland.  Conse- 
quently, the  manor  never  vested  in  Sir  Giles  de  Brewse,  nor  in  the  second 
Sir  Richard  de  Brewse,nor  in  Margaret,  the latter's daughter.  From  this  John 
de  Weyland  the  manor  seems  to  have  passed  to  Thomas  de  Weyland,  the 
unfortunate  Lord  Chief  Justice,  who  had  to  abjure  the  realm  in  1290,  for 
we  find  it  mentioned  in  the  Escheater's  return,3  and  his  son,  Sir  John  Wey- 
land had  a  grant  of  free  warren  in  1301,*  and  the  grant  of  a  market  and 
fair  in  the  manor  in  1304. 5 

Sir  John  Weyland  had  both  this  manor  and  the  advowson  of  Clopton, 
and  he,  with  Maria  his  wife,  in  1307  levied  a  fine  of  both  against  John 
Olyner.4  On  his  death  about  1312'  these  passed  to  his  brother,  Sir  Richard 
Weyland.  Richard's  daughter  and  heir,  Cecily,  inherited  the  manor  in  1319, 
and  married  Bartholomew  de  Burghersh,  who  had  a  grant  of  free  warren 
heie  in  1349.'  He  died  seised  of  the  manor  in  right  of  his  wife  in  1369,' 

'  I.P.M.,  37  Hen.  III.  49  ;  44  Hen.  III.  15  ;  «  Chart.  Rolls,  29  Edw.  I.  7. 

or  File.  14  (17).      The    manor  was  'Chart.  Rolls,  32  Edw.  I.  51. 

then  held    with  Hasketon   Manor  «Feet  of  Fines,  i  Edw.  II.  27. 

of    Roger,  Earl    Marshal,    by  the  'I.P.M.,  6  Edw.  II.  34. 

service  of  one  knight's  fee.  •  Chart.  Rolls,  23  Edw.  I.  3. 

Feet  of  Fines,  16  Edw.  I.  7.  •  Duchy  of  Lane.  I. P.M.,  43  Edw.  III.  142 ; 
U.P.M.,  18  Edw.  I.  51.  I.P.M.,  43  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  14. 


CLOPTON. 


33 


when  it  passed  to  Elizabeth,  his  daughter  and  heir,  married  to  Edward 
Le  Despenser.  He  died  nth  November,  1375,'  and  she  in  1409. 

In  1489  we  find  a  charter  which  shows  that  at  that  time  the  manor 
was  vested  in  John  Audeley.  By  it  he  conveyed  to  John  Bloys,  clerk,  his 
heirs  and  assigns  for  ever,  "  Clop  ton  al.  Bowsyshalle  Manor  and  Sweneland 
and  Cokefeld  Manors,"  with  all  lands,  rents,  advowsons  of  churches,  &c.2 
This  conveyance  was  no  doubt  by  way  of  settlement,  for  we  find  that  John 
Audeley,  then  Sir  John  Audeley,  had  a  fine  levied  against  him  by  John 
Jenor  and  others  in  15 14,3  and  died  seised  of  the  manor  on  i8th  April, 
1529,*  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Audeley,  who  died  in  the 
month  of  June,  I534,5  when  it  devolved  on  his  brother  and  heir,  Edward 
Audeley.6  From  him  the  manor  passed  to  Robert  Gurdon,  who  died  in 
I579,7  when  it  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Gurdon.  It  then  seems  to 
have  vested  in  Robert  Gosnold,  for  he  in  1600  sold  the  manor  to  Thomas 
Rous,  who  died  in  1603,  after  which  time  the  manor  descended  in  the  same 
course  as  the  Manor  of  Kingshall,  and  is  now  vested  in  the  Hon.  Alexander 
Hewitt  Kerr. 

Courts  for  the  manor  were  held  as  follows  :  I5th  July,  30  Eliz. ;  2ist 
Sept.  2  Car.  ;  26th  Sept.  2  Car. ;  iyth  April,  3  Car. ;  I4th  Oct.  17  Car.; 
first  court  of  William  Betts,6th  Sept.  1703;  ist  Nov.  1703;  3ist  Oct.  1705; 
25th  Sept.  1707;  2nd  Nov.  1708;  first  court  of  Thomas  Betts,  6th  Nov. 
1710  ;  I4th  April,  1715  ;  5th  May,  1715  ;  Henry  Betts,  6th  May,  1717  ; 
I2th  Sept.  1717  ;  I2th  Nov.  1717  ;  ist  Dec.  1719  ;  first  court  of  Elizabeth 
Betts,  widow,  29th  Dec.  1721 ;  3rd  Dec.  1722  ;  I2th  Aug.  1723  ;  27th  Sept. 
*723  ;  I5th  Dec.  1727  ;  24th  May,  1728  ;  ist  Dec.  1728  ;  2nd  June,  1729  ; 
I3th  Oct.  1729  ;  27th  Dec.  1731 ;  I3th  April,  1733  ;  6th  Nov.  1736  ;  2gth 
March,  1737;  25th  May,  1737;  ist  July,  1737;  25th  Jan.  1737;  5th  June,  1740; 
20th  Aug.  1740  ;  gth  July,  1742  ;  r7th  July,  1744;  9th  Oct.  1744;  2oth 
Oct.,  1747  ;  I2th  Aug.  1749 ;  6th  Oct.  1750 ;  27th  June,  1752  ;  igth 
March,  1753  ;  29th  June,  1754  ;  24th  June,  1756  ;  i6th  Aug.  1758  ;  27th 
Feb.  1767  ;  6th  Sept.  1768  ;  4th  Aug.  1770 ;  i2th  Oct.  1772  ;  3rd  June, 
1773  ;  6th  April,  1774  ;  2ist  Nov.  1774  ;  first  court  of  Rebecca  Anguish, 
widow,  and  Ann  Betts,  spinster,  two  daughters  of  Elizabeth  Betts,  I3th 
June,  1775  ;  i7th  Oct.  1775  ;  27th  June,  1777  >  r5th  Aug.  1777  ;  28th 

Jan.  1779 ;  I2tn  Dec-  ^So;  9th  Dec-  X783  >  25th  Jan-  X785  >  24th  Au&-  *786  J 
9th  June,  1789  ;  I5th  Nov.  1790  ;  3rd  April,  1792  ;  I7th  Oct.  1793  ;  i8th 
Sept.  1794;  ist  June,  1798;  Matthew  Raper  and  Ann  his  wife,  28th  June, 
1816  ;  Matthew  Raper,  I3th  Aug.  1824  ;  F.  V.  Raper's  last  court  3ist 
May,  1849  ;  and  Charles  Eraser  and  Eliza  Raper's  first  court,  23rd  May, 
1850. 

Amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum  is  the  sale  of  a 
seventh  share  of  messuages,  lands,  &c.,  in  the  Manors  of  Kingshall,  Brendhall, 
and  Rowsehall  in  I7O9.8  It  is  dated  the  30th  May,  1709,  and  is  a  sale  made 
by  Stephen  Person,  of  Derby,  in  New  England  (N.  America),  to  John  Gibbon, 
of  London,  merchant,  and  is  of  a  share  Person  had  inherited  from  Thomas 
Garnham,  hte  grandfather.  The  customs  of  this  manor  are :  The  youngest 
son  is  heir,  the  eldest  brother  is  heir,  the  widow  is  entitled  to  one-third  for 
dower,  and  timber  cannot  be  cut  without  licence  of  lord.  It  has  been  the 


1 1. P.M.,  49  Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  46. 
1 4  Hen.  VII.  Cl.  dor.  33. 
J  Fine,  Easter,  6  Hen.  VIII. 
« I.P.M.,  23  Hen.  VIII.  8. 
'  I.P.M.,  27  Hen.  VIII.  19. 

T1> 


6  See  Manor  of  Redhall,  in  Witnesham,  in 

this  Hundred. 
J  I.P.M.,  7  April,  21  Eliz. 
8  Add.  Ch.  19269. 


34  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

custom  for  a  fine  to  be  paid  on  the  deaths  of  free  tenants,  and  on  their  aliena- 
tions inter  vires.  The  fines  are  arbitrary  and  heriots  attached  in  some 
instances  to  copyholds  in  this  manor. 

MANOR  OF  WASCOLIES  al.  WESTERLYES  (olim  Naunton's). 

This  was  the  estate  of  Edric  Grim  in  Saxon  days,  and  of  Ralph  Peverel 
at  the  time  of  the  Norman  Survey. 

It  was  apparently  vested  in  John  de  Wascoyl,  who  had  the  advowson 
of  Clopton  in  1273.  Amongst  the  early  Chancery  Proceedings  is  a  suit  by 
Robert  Fitz  Rauff,  nephew  of  Sir  John  Forstaft  against  John,  nephew  of 
Robert  Rendelysham,  late  Steward  of  the  "  Manor  of  Naunton,"  as  to 
erasure  of  entries  in  the  Court  Rolls  of  the  manor.1  In  1558  the  manor  was 
vested  in  Thomas  Codd,  alderman  of  Norwich,  and  this  year  passed  on  his 
death  to  his  cousin  and  heir,  Thomas  Codd.  We  next  find  it  vested  in  Thomas 
Rous,  who  died  in  1572,  and  from  this  time  it  seems  to  have  descended  in  a 
like  manor  with  the  Manor  of  Brendhall,  in  Clopton,  and  is  now  vested  in 
the  Hon.  Alexander  Hewitt  Kerr. 

A  copy  admittance  to  this  manor  of  Thomas  Coggeshall  at  a  court  held 
for  this  manor  igth  March,  1753,  when  Elizabeth  Betts  was  lady,  is  given  in 
the  East  Anglian  Notes  and  Queries,  vol.  v.  p.  204.  Mr.  Daniel  Hipwell, 
who  makes  the  communication,  does  not  apparently  recognise  the  manor, 
as  he  leaves  both  parish  and  county  blank.  There  is,  however,  no  doubt 
as  to  the  identity,  and  the  description  in  the  will  of  John  Coggeshall  as 
copyhold  in  Clopton,  and  the  boundaries  of  the  land -one  being  a  piece  of 
land  abutting  upon  a  meadow  of  the  Manor  of  Rousehall— are  all  confirma- 
tory. Courts  for  this  manor  were  held  as  follows  :  24th1  Oct.  1688  ;  24th 
Oct.  1699  ;  3oth  Oct.  1700 ;  27th  Oct.  1701 ;  loth  April,  1702  ;  court  of 
William  Betts,  2Qth  Oct.  1702 ;  2gth  March,  1704 ;  3ist  Oct.  1705  ;  4th  Nov. 
1706  ;  4th  April,  1707 ;  25th  Sept.  1707  ;  2nd  Nov.  1708  ;  7th  March,  1708  ; 
9th  Sept.  1709  ;  first  court  of  Thomas  Betts,  6th  Nov.  1710  ;  5th  Feb.  1710  ; 
I4th  April,  1715  ;  5th  May,  1715  ;  first  Court  of  Henry  Betts,  I2th  Sept. 
1716  ;  6th  May,  1717  ;  8th  Oct.  1717  ;  6th  Oct.  1719  ;  2gth  Jan.  1719  : 
first  court  of  Elizabeth  Betts,  widow,  2gth  Oct.,  1721 ;  4th  Oct.  1722. 
Felix  Vincent  Raper's  last  court,  3ist  May,  1849  ;  and  Charles  Fraser 
and  Eliza  Raper's  first  court  23rd  May,  1850. 

The  custom  of  the  manor  is  that  the  youngest  son  is  heir,  the  eldest 
brother  is  heir,  and  the  widow  is  entitled  to  a  moiety.  The  fines  are  arbitrary 
and  heriots  attached  in  some  instances  to  copyhold's  held  of  this  manor. 


'E.C.P.,  Bundle  71,  61. 


CULPHO.  35 

CULPHO. 

HERE  were  two  manors  here  in  Saxon  times.  One  was  held 
by  Brihtric,  a  freeman  under  the  Abbot  of  Ely  in  the  Con- 
fessor's time.  It  consisted  of  80  acres,  10  bordars,  and  4 
serfs,  2  plough  teams  in  demesne  and  2  belonging  to  the 
tenants,  4  acres  of  meadow,  2  rouncies,  7  beasts,  36  hogs,  and 
100  sheep,  valued  at  2os.  By  the  time  of  the  Survey  the 
value  had  risen  to  305.,  the  serfs  had  disappeared,  the  plough- 
teams  of  the  men  had  come  down  to  i,  the  rouncies  to  i,  the  beasts  to 
2,  the  hogs  to  15,  the  sheep  to  60,  and  the  only  detail  in  which  a  rise  was 
discernible  was  the  increase  of  i  plough  team  in  demesne. 

The  other  manor  was  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  held  by  Godric,  a 
freeman  under  Harold,  who  held  40  acres,  3  bordars,  2  acres  of  meadow, 
and  i  plough  team,  valued  at  IDS.  The  value  was  the  same  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey,  but  the  ploughteam  had  disappeared.  Both  these  manors 
were  held  by  Roger  de  Poictou  as  Domesday  tenant  in  chief.  Roger  also 
held  in  Culpho  21  acres  which  in  the  Confessor's  time  had  been  held  by  5 
freemen  under  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely.  In  those  days  there 
was  a  ploughteam,  and  the  value  was  stated  to  be  75. ;  but  at  the  time  of  the 
Survey  there  was  but  half  a  team,  and  the  value  had  dropped  2s.  There 
was  also  here  a  church  with  10  acres  valued  at  2Qd* 

The  only  other  holding  in  Culpho  was  that  of  Geoffrey  de  Magnaville, 
who  had  3  freemen,  2  under  commendation  to  Halden,  and  the  third  to  the 
Abbot  of  Ely,  holding  30  acres  and  one  bordar.  There  had  been  2 
ploughteams,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  these  had  disappeared  ;  also 
2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  5s.3 

MANOR  OF  CULPHO  al.  VERDONS  AND  WACHESHAM  MANOR. 

This  was  the  manor  of  Brihtric  in  Saxon  days,  and  of  Roger  de  Poictou 
in  Norman  times.  It  was  probably  the  manor  held  later  by  Sir  Osbert  de 
Wachesham  and  William  de  Verdun,  who  held  half  a  fee  of  the 
Honor  of  Lancaster  in  I2io,3  and  which  was  held  subsequently  by  Osbert's 
son,  Giles  de  Wachesham,  whoalso  held  half  aknight's  fee  in  chief  of  theKing,4 
and  later  by  Sir  Giles's  son,  Sir  Giles.  ThislastGiles'sbrother,John  de  Waches- 
ham, about  the  same  time  held  in  Culpho  4  fees  ot  the  Honor  of  Lancaster.5 
Giles  de  Wachesham,  the  father,  died  in  1267,*  and  was  succeeded  by  his 
son  and  heir,  Sir  Giles  de  Wachesham,  who  is  distinctly  stated  in  the  Hundred 
Rolls  to  have  held  this  manor  of  the  King  in  chief  of  the  Honor  of  Lancaster.7 
It  would  seem,  however,  that  the  manor  was  held  really  in  moieties  by  the 
Wachesham  and  Verdon  families.  Sir  Giles  de  Wachesham,  the  son,8  died 
in  I272,9and  Davy  traces  the  manor  from  the  Wacheshams  to  theVerdons 
by  the  marriage  of  Isabella,  daughter  of  Giles  de  Wachesham ;  but  this  is  a 
mistake.  Giles  de  Wachesham  left  a  son  and  heir,  Sir  Gerard,  also  called 
Sir  Giles,  and  we  find  the  following  entry  on  the  Close  Rolls  for  1278. 
Shortly,  it  is  an  order  for  John,  son  of  John  le  (sic)  Verdun  to  have  seisin 
of  a  moiety  of  Culpho  Manor  as  held  of  Giles  de  Wachesham,  tenant  in 
chief,  which  moiety  came  to  the  King's  hands  by  reason  of  the  wardship 

1  Dom.  ii.  346.  6 1.P.M.,  52  Hen.  III.  14. 

JDom.  ii.  413.  7H.R.  ii.  188. 

3  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer,  132  B.  148^.  8  See    Manor    of    Stanstead,  in   Babergh 

*T.  de  N.  283.  Hundred. 

5T.  de  N.  291.  «  I.P.M.,  i  Edw.  I.  9  ;  3  Edw.  I.  28 


36  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

of  Gerard,  son  and  heir  of  Giles  de  Wachesham,  whilst  the  heir  was  under 
age  as  wardship  of  a  wardship,  and  John,  son  of  the  said  John  le  Verdun, 
was  his  next  heir,  and  of  full  age.1  We  learn  nothing  more  of  Gerard  de 
\\  achesham,  but  in  1297  we  find  that  the  whole  place  was  held  by  John  de 
Wachesham  and  Thomas  Verdon.* 

This  John  de  Wachesham  was  apparently  a  cousin  of  Sir  Gerard,  being 
the  grandson  of  John,  the  brother  of  Sir  Giles,  father  of  Gerard.  He  was 
dead  before  1316,  for  we  find  amongst  the  ancient  Deeds  in  the  Record 
Office,  formerly  preserved  in  the  Court  of  Augmentations,  a  grant  by  John, 
son  of  William  Hoo  (probably  a  trustee)  to  Dyonisia  late  the  wife  of  John 
de  Wachesham,  Knt.,  and  to  Thomas,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  John,  of  the 
Manor  of  Culpho,  with  messuages,  lands,  &c.,  in  the  Vills  of  "  Culfo, 
Tudinham,  Groundisburg,  and  Playford,"  with  remainder  upon  the  death 
of  the  said  Dyonisia  and  Thomas  to  John  de  Wachesham  and  Edmund, 
brothers  of  the  said  Thomas.  The  deed  is  dated  the  Friday  after  the 
Octave  of  Easter,  10  Edw.  II.3  It  is  strange  that  none  of  the  parties 
named  in  this  settlement  were  tenants  on  the  taking  of  the  inquisition 
p.m.  of  Thomas,  Earl  of  Lancaster,  in  1327.  Giles  de  Wachesham  is  the 
person  there  mentioned.4 

On  John  de  Verdon's  death  he  was  succeeded  by  Thomas  de  Verdon, 
who  died  seised  of  the  manor,  or  the  Verdon  moiety,  in  1315,' when  it  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John  Verdon,  who  released  it  to  William  West,  of 
Newbourne,  in  1357.  Upon  the  death  of  Thomas  de  Wachesham,  the 
manor  (or  a  moiety  thereof)  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  de  Wachesham, 
and  he  sold  to  Roger  de  Wolferston.  In  1363  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied 
by  Roger  de  Wolferston,  Robb  atte  Gern,  chaplain,  and  Geoffrey  de 
Martlesham  against  John  de  Wachesham,  and  it  was  no  doubt  by  this  fine 
the  manor  passed  from  the  family  of  Wachesham  to  that  of  Wolferston. 
Certainly  about  the  year  1400  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  Thomas  de 
Wolferston  or  Wolverston  (grandson  of  Roger),  who  died  seised  of  it  in 
1428,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Wolferston. 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Hen.  VI.  we  find  a 
suit  relating  to  the  manor  by  this  Robert  Wolferston  against  John  Frarkes, 
parson  of  Harkstead,  feoffee.6  Robert  died  about  1452,  when  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Wolferston,  who  died  in  1468,  when  it  went 
to  his  widow  Helena,  who  remarried  John  Penley.  She  died  in  14787  when 
Richard  Wolferston,  son  and  heir  of  John  and  Helena,  succeeded  to  the 
lordship.  He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  George  Seckford,  of  Seckford 
Hall,  Healings,  afterwards  married  to  Richard  Jenney,  of  Herringfleet. 
Richard  Wolferston  died  in  1495,"  leaving  a  son  and  heir,  Thomas,  married 
to  Maud,  daughter  of  Sir  Humphrey  Stanley,  of  Pipe,  co.  Stafford.  A  little 
later  the  manor  passed  to  Sir  Richard  Brooke,  who  died  6th  May,  1529, 
seised  ot  it,  being  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Brooke,  then  aged 
34.*  It  should  be  mentioned  that  in  the  roth  Report  of  the  Deputy  Keeper 

•Close Rolls, 6 Edw. I.,  13;  I.P.M., Johnde  «E.C.P.    8    Hen.    IV.;      35    Hen.    VI.; 

Verdun,  6  Edw.  I.  26.  Bundle  16,  179. 

•I.P.M.,    Edmund,    Earl    of    Lancaster,  7I.P.M.,  18  Edw.  IV.  9. 

brother  of  the  King,  25  Edw.  I.  51.  •I.P.M.,  9  and  10  Hen.  VII. ;  D.K.R.   10 

» B.  1066.  App.  ii.  p.  121,  Duchy  of  Lane. ; 

«I.P.M.,  I  Edw.  III.  88.  I.P.M.,    12    Hen.    VII.    51;    Will 

» I. P.M..  9  Edw.  II.  54.  1492. 

"I.P.M.,  2  Edw.  VI.  60. 


CULPHO.  37 

of  the  Public  Records/  we  find  a  reference  made  to  the  fact  of  the  pre- 
servation of  particulars  of  "  faim  of  Culpho  Manor  "  on  grant  to  Thomas 
Wingfield  in  the  36th  year  of  Hen.  VIII.  [1544]. 

In  1591  amongst  the  Calendar  to  Pleadings  in  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster, 
we  find  a  suit  as  to  infringement  of  the  Duchy  liberties  on  land  escheated  on 
conviction  of  Nicholas  Foxe  for  murder.  The  case  is  Attorn. -Gen.  v.  Finche 
and  another  [33  Eliz.  5],and  though  the  Manorsof  Culpho,  BurySt.  Edmunds, 
Ilketshall,  and  Bardolfs  are  mentioned,  the  Calendar  does  not  disclose  the 
connection.  As  to  the  Brooke  holding  there  may  be  doubt,  for  in  1601 
we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  the  manor  by  Michael  Hey  don  and  others  against 
Robert  Wolferston.*  This  Robert  was  no  doubt  the  grandson  of  Thomas 
Wolverston  above  mentioned,  and  would  rather  imply  that  the  manor  had 
continued  in  the  Wolferston  family  until  this  time.  If  so,  it  would  probably 
have  passed  from  Thomas  to  his  eldest  son  Philip,  who  married  Frances 
Howard,  and  as  he  died  leaving  a  daughter  only,  Mary,  married  to  Sir  John 
Killigrew,  would  have  passed  to  Philip,  3rd  brother  of  Thomas,  and  ulti- 
mately to  his  4th  brother  Robert,  who  married  Mary,  daughter  of  Edmund 
Withypool,  of  Ipswich,  and  left  a  son  Robert  Wolverston,  mariied  to 
Dorothy,  sister  to  Anthony,  Viscount  Montagu. 

In  1609  Sir  Michael  Stanhope,  Knt.,  held  the  manor.  This  is  on  the 
authority  of  Davy.  Sir  Michael  Stanhope  had  certainly  some  interest  here, 
for  there  is  still  a  charity  subsisting  in  the  place  established  by  him.  It  con- 
sists of  £4.  145.  2%d.,  being  the  proportion  payable  to  this  parish  out  of 
certain  yearly  rents  amounting  to  £48,  issuing  out  of  the  demesne  lands  of 
the  Manor  of  Valence,  in  Blaxhall,  granted  to  trustees  in  fee  in  the  i6th  year 
of  the  reign  of  King  James  I. 

There  is  a  fine  of  the  "  Manor  of  Culpho  "  levied  in  1357  by  William 
Pottere  against  John  de  Ufford,  Knt.,  Adam  de  Skakilthorp,  parson  of 
Causton  Church,  and  Adam  de  Hautboys,  parson  of  Cockfield  Church, 
which  Richard  de  Martlesham  and  Matilda  his  wife  held  for  their  lives.3 
This  fine  included  also  the  Manors  of  Playford,  Kesgrave,  Tuddenham 
Magna  and  Parva,  Blynges,  and  Rushmere.  In  1574  we  meet  with  a  fine  of 
"  Wattesham  Manor  "  levied  by  Sir  William  Cordell  and  others  against 
Drugo  Drury  and  others.4 

The  quit  rents  of  Culpho  Manor  in  1743  amounted  to  £4.  75.  %d.  per 
annum. 

Arms  of  WOLFERSTON  :  Sable,  a  fesse  wavy,  betw.  three  wolves' 
heads  erased  Or. 

ABBOTS  OR  CULPHO  ABBATIS  or  C.  REGIS  MANOR. 

This  was  the  manor  of  Godric,  the  freeman  of  Harold  in  Saxon  times 
and  of  Roger  de  Poictou  in  Norman  days. 

In  1225  it  was  the  lordship  of  William  de  Valoines.  His  successor, 
William  de  Valoines,  about  1280  gave  the  manor  and  the  church  of  Culpho 
tc  Leiston  Abbey,  and  William  Verdon,  who  married  his  daughter  Matilda, 
confirmed  the  gift.  On  the  dissolution  of  the  religious  houses  in  the  time  of 
Hen.  VIII.  the  manor  passed  to  the  Crown.  It  was  granted  by  Hen.  VIII. 
in  1536,  with  the  possessions  of  the  Abbey  of  Leiston,  to  Charles  Bran- 

'App.  ii.  p.  301.  3Feet  of  Fines,  31-32  Edw.  III.  48. 

'Fine,  Hil.  43  Eliz.  4Fine,  Mich.  16-17  Eliz. 


38  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

don,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  but  he  shortly  afterwards  exchanged  the  site  of  the 
abbey  and  the  manors,  rectories,  and  lands  attached  to  it,  with  the  Crown 
for  Henham  Hall. 

In  1540  this  manor  was  granted  by  the  Crown  in  fee  to  Thomas  Bacon, 
of  Hessett,  and  was  then  said  to  be  of  the  value  of  75.  3d.'  The  grant  was 
by  letters  patent  32  Hen.  VIII.,  and  will  be  found  amongst  the  Bodleian 
Charters.1  There  is  also  a  grant  of  this  manor  for  life  to  Lady  Anne  of 
Cleves  out  of  the  Augmentation  Office  1540-1. J  The  same  year  Thomas 
Bacon  obtained  a  licence  to  alienate  the  manor  to  Thomas  Wolferston,  sen.4 
Thomas  Wolferston  was  probably  the  son  of  Thomas  and  Maud  his  wife, 
daughter  of  Sir  Humphrey  Stanley,  mentioned  in  the  account  of  the  main 
manor.  He  did  homage  for  Culpho  in  1541,  and  married  Philippa,  daughter 
of  William  Homberston,  of  Dunwich.  He  had  licence  in  1554  to  alienate  the 
manor  to  Robert  Kinge.  Robert  Kinge  died  in  1585,  when  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Kinge  al.  Blondevile,  who,  with  his  wife, 
Patience,  in  1606  had  licence  to  alienate  to  Thomas  Moswell. 

In  1660  the  manor  was  vested  in  Sir  William  Blois,  of  Grundisburgh, 
Knt.,  on  whose  death  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Charles  Blois,  who 
was  created  a  Bart,  isth  April,  1686.  From  the  Exchequer  Depositions 
taken  at  Woodbridge  in  1690,  we  learn  that  at  that  time  there  was  pending 
an  action  between  this  Sir  Charles  Blois  and  Robert  Thompson  relating  to 
a  farm  called  Newhall  or  New  Culpho,  and  the  sale  of  part  of  the  estate  of 
Sir  William  Blois,  and  contract  for  purchase  of  manor,  &c.  Sir  Charles 
Blois  died  9th  April,  1738,  and  from  this  time  to  the  time  of  Sir  John 
Blois,  5th  Bart.,  the  descent  of  the  manor  is  identical  with  that  of  the  Manor 
of  Blythburgh,  in  Ely  thing  Hundred.  Sir  John  Blois  sold  the  manor  to 
Brampton  Gurdon,  ot  Letton,  co.  Norfolk,  who  had  assumed  the  surname 
of  Dillingham.  He  was  High  Sheriff  of  Norfolk  in  1789,  and  married  ist 
Mary,  daughter  of  Philip  Bedingfield,  of  Ditchingham,  and  had  three  sons, 
Theophilus-Thornhaugh,  Thornhaugh-Philip,  and  Philip-Brampton.  By 
his  2nd  wife,  Mary,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Samuel  Howard,  he  had  only  one 
daughter,  Mary,  married  to  William  Frere,  serjeant  at  law,  and  Master  of 
Downing  College,  Cambridge.  Mr.  Dillingham  died  in  1820,  when  the 
manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Theophilus-Thornhaugh  Gurdon,  of  Letton, 
co.  Norfolk,  and  of  Grundisburgh,  Lieut.-Col.  West  Norfolk  Militia  and  High 
Sheriff  in  1824.  He  married  Anne,  daughter  of  W'illiam  Mellish,  M.P.  for 
Blyth,  and  had  issue  five  sons  and  a  daughter  married  to  the  Hon.  Henry 
\\odehouse,  thus  becoming  mother  of  the  Earl  of  Kimberley.  His 
3rd  son,  William,  was  Recorder  of  Bury,  and  Judge  of  the  County  Court  in 
Essex. 

Colonel  Gurdon  died  in  March,  1849,  and  his  widow  the  following  year, 
when  the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son,  Brampton  Gurdon,  sometime  M.P. 
for  West  Norfolk,  and  High  Sheriff  in  1855.  He  married  the  Hon.  Henrietta 
Susannah  Ridley-Colborne,  eldest  daughter  of  Nicholas,  ist  Lord  Colborne, 
and  had  issue  two  sons  and  two  daughters.  On  the  death  of  Brampton 
Gurdon  in  1881  the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son,  Robert  Thornhaugh 
Gurdon,  who  married  ist  in  1862  Frances-Haiiet  (?  Harriet-Ellen), 
6th  daughter  of  Sir  William  Miles,  ist  Bart.,  and  2ndly  in  1874  Emily, 
daughter  of  the  Rev.  Robert  Boothby  Heathcote,  of  Chingford,  Essex. 

'S.P.  1540, 436(58).  iS.P.  1540-1,  1500. 

•  Bodl.  Suff.  Ch.  153.  4  s.P.  1540,  942  (15). 


CULPHO.  39 

The  manor  has  since  passed  to  and  is  now  vested  in  Lord  Cranworth,  of 
Letton  Hall. 

Arms  of  BLOIS  :  See  Blythburgh  Manor,  in  Ely  thing  Hundred.     Of 
GURDON  :  Sable,  three  leopards'  faces  jessant  fleurs-de-lis,  Or. 


THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

FALKENHAM. 

HERE  were  two  manors  here  in  Saxon  times.  One  was  held 
by  Edric  under  commendation  to  Norman  in  King  Edward's 
time,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  was  held  by  Turlaville 
of  Roger  Bigot.  It  consisted  of  a  carucate  of  land,  6  bordars, 
i  serf,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne,  2  acres  of  meadow,  formerly 
4  rouncies  but  then  3,  10  hogs,  and  60  sheep,  valued  at  305. 
And  there  were  7  freemen  and  a  half  with  57  acres  under 
commendation  to  Norman,  with  3  ploughteams.  The  names  of  the  7  free- 
men were  Brihtmar,  Woolmer,  Godwin,  Ulward,  Goodrich,  Sweting  (of 
whom  Ralph  was  seised),  and  Leverich  Levesson.  And  they  had  half  an 
acre  of  meadow,  and  their  holding  was  valued  at  los. 

Roger  Bigot  as  tenant  in  chief  also  held  here  4  freemen — Leverich, 
Suneman,  Manson,  and  Leofstan  (under  Norman  by  half  their  commenda- 
tion, and  the  other  moiety  belonged  to  Ralph  de  Turlaville),  with  30  acres  and 
a  bordar,  and  2  ploughteams,  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  55.  The 
place  was  half  a  league  long  and  4  quarentenes  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt 
22\d.1 

The  other  manor  had  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  been  held  by  Brismer, 
and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  was  held  by  Ranulf,  brother  of  Ilger.  It  con- 
sisted of  26  acres,  and  had  attached  in  Saxon  times  i  ploughteam,  I  rouncy, 
4  beasts,  40  sheep ;  but  these  had  apparently  disappeared  by  the  time  of 
the  Survey,  when  the  value  was  5s.,  as  against  the  earlier  valuation  of  los. 
The  Domesday  Survey  here  adds  some  statements  not  particularly  lucid. 
"This  Brictmar  had  several  lands,  and  some  part  was  delivered  on  the  King's 
behalf  to  Ingelric ;  and  other  parts  to  Ranulf,  Ilger's  brother,  and  a  third 
part  to  Ralph  Pinel ;  and  in  this  third  part  was  this  aforesaid  land  delivered 
to  Ralph  as  he  himself  says,  and  the  said  (?)  gives  this  testimony  that  he 
was  seised  at  the  first ;  but  whether  on  behalf  of  the  King  or  not  he  was 
seised  that  they  ignore  ;  and  say  also  that  Ranulf  claims  this  land  against 
Ralph  ;  and  Roger  the  Sheriff  named  to  them  a  set  term,  that  they  should 
both  be  present — Ranulf  appearing,  Ralph  was  absent ;  and  therefore  the 
men  of  the  Hundred  adjudged  that  Ranulf  was  seised,  who  now  holds.  But 
Ralph  Pinel  denies  this,  because  he  was  not  summoned  for  that  plea."1 

MANOR  OF  FALKENHAM  OR  FALKENHAM  DODNASH. 

This  was  the  manor  of  Edric  in  Saxon  days,  and  of  Ralph  de  Turlaville 
holding  of  Roger  Bigot  in  Norman  times.  The  manor  was  vested  in  the 
Priory  of  Dodnash  at  an  early  date,  and  in  1327  the  priory  had  a  grant  of 
free  warren  here.5  With  the  priory  the  manor  remained  until  the  Dissolu- 
tion, when  it  passed  to  the  Crown,  and  was  granted  by  Hen.  VIII.  in  1525 
to  Cardinal  Wolsey,4  for  the  endowment  of  the  College  in  Ipswich.  A  fine  was 
in  1526  levied  of  the  manor  by  the  Dean  and  Canons  of  Christ  Church  College 
in  Oxford  against  Thomas,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  and  others.'  On  the  Cardinal's 
disgrace  the  manor  again  came  to  the  Crown,  and  an  account  of  arrears  due 
to  the  King  from  land  of  the  suppressed  monastery  of  Falkenham,  as  it  is 
called,  will  be  found  amongst  the  State  Papers  in  1532.*  The  manor  was  in 
1531  granted  to  Thomas  Alverde,  who  died  in  1534.  It  seems  again  to 
have  vested  in  the  Crown  and  been  granted  to  the  Duke  of  Norfolk,  for  in 

1  Dom.  ii.  339,  3406,  341.  4  S.P.  17  Hen.  VIII.  1833. 

'Dom.  ii.  4236,  424.  'Fine,  Mich.  18  Hen.  VIII. 

'Chart.  Rolls,  I  Edw.  III.  ii.  «S.P.  24  Hen.  VIII.  1359. 


FALKENHAM.  41 

1544  we  find  the  manor  with  divers  others  in  the  county  given  in  exchange 
for  the  castle,  manor,  and  chase  of  Rysing,  in  Norfolk,  to  King  Hen.  VIII. 
by  Thomas  Howard,  the  then  Duke,  and  his  son,  Henry,  Earl  of  Arundel 
and  Surrey. 

On  the  opening  of  the  seventeenth  century  we  find  the  manor  vested  in 
Uriah  Babington,  who  died  seised  of  it  in  1605,  when  it  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Uriah,  and  in  1609  went  to  his  (Uriah's)  widow  Anne. 

In  1658  we  find  amongst  the  Exchequer  Depositicns  one  taken  at 
Ipswich  in  a  suit  concerning  tne  Manor  of  Dodnash,  and  the  tithes  between 
Edmond  Prideaux,  plaintiff,  and  Clement  Toakeley  and  another,  defen- 
dants ;  and  the  following  year  a  like  deposition  in  a  suit  between  Robert 
Holmes,  plaintiff,  and  William  Burton  and  others,  defendants. 

In  1662  the  manor  was  vested  in  Martha  Goodwin,  widow,  and  in  1764 
in  Jonathan  Barwood.  Later,  in  1842,  we  find  the  lordship  vested  in 
Richard  Norton  Cartwright,  of  Ixworth  Abbey. 

The  customs  of  this  manor  were  involved  in  a  suit  in  1589  respecting 
copyhold  lands  then  lately  belonging  to  Robert  Watson  and  Margaret  his 
wife,  in  a  suit  between  William  Symonds  and  another,  and  John  Thurston.1 

RUSSELL'S  MANOR. 

This  was  the  inheritane  of  Brichmar  in  Saxon  times,  and  of  Ralph, 
brother  of  Ilger,  in  Norman  days. 

In  the  time  of  Hen.  I.  it  was  held  by  Sir  Robert  de  Sackville,  Knt.,  of 
the  Honor  of  Eye.  His  descendants  were  seated  at  Buckhurst,  in  Sussex, 
and  were  ancestors  of  the  Dukes  of  Dorset  and  Middlesex. 

In  the  time  of  Hen.  VI.  the  manor  was  vested  in  John  Russell,  of  Chels- 
ford,  who  died  in  1427,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Richard  Russell, 
from  whom  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  William  Russell.2  This  manor  was 
held  of  the  Manor  of  Walton-cum-Trimley. 

In  the  next  century  we  find  the  lordship  vested  in  William  Waller,  of 
Ipswich,  who  died  8th  April,  1535, 3  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
William  Waller,4  who  died  ist  November,  1547,  when  the  manor  went  to 
his  son  and  heir,  William  Waller.5 

We  meet  with  two  fines  of  this  manor  in  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth. 
The  first  was  levied  in  1567  by  John  Bales  against  Roger  Petytt  and  others  ;6 
and  the  second  in  1570  by  Thomas  Lambe  against  William  Clavell  and 
others.7 

We  next  find  the  manor  in  Thomas  Pratt,  for  amongst  the  Exchequer 
Special  Commission?  in  1594  is  a  survey  of  this  manor,  said  to  be  "  parcel  of 
the  possessions  of  Thomas  Pratt,  collector  of  the  Customs  in  Ipswich."8 
It  must  then,  or  within  the  next  three  years,  have  gone  to  the  Crown,  for 
in  1597  we  meet  in  the  State  Papers  with  a  grant  of  the  manor  in  perpetuity 
to  Robert  Barker,  of  Ipswich.  The  value  of  the  manor  was  then  stated  to  be 
£29.  is.  o%d.9  The  Survey  Book  or  Extent  of  Russell's  Manor  in  1607  will 
be  found  amongst  the  Additional  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum.10  Robert 
Barker,  then  Sir  Robert,  Knt.,  died  in  1618,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his 

1  Exch.  Dep.  at  Woodbridge.  *  I.P.M.,  3  Edw.  VI.  152. 

2  Half  a  fee  in   Falkenham  for  William         *  Fine,  Easter,  9  Eliz. 

Russel,    John,    Duke    of   Norfolk  ;  1  Fine,  Hil.  12  Eliz. 

I.P.M.,  ii  Hen.  VI.  43.  "36  Eliz.  D.K.R.,  38  App.  p.  51. 

•I.P.M.,  28  Hen.  VIII.  25.  »S.P.  1597.  P-  427- 

«  Davy  makes  him  son  of  Richard  Waller.  I0  Add.  21042. 
See  Peyton  Hall  Manor,  Ramsholt, 
in  Wilford  Hundred. 


4*  THE^MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

son  and  heir,  Sir  John  Barker,  of  Trimley,  created  a  Bart.  From  Sir  John 
Barker,  1st  Bart.,  this  manor  descended  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor 
of  Offton  Monks,  in  Bosmere  and  Claydon  Hundred,  the  descent  of  which 
has  been  already  ^iven,  to  the  7th  Bart,  Sir  John  Fytch  Barker.  He  died 
in  1766,  and  left  lii->  estate  to  George  Nassau,  who  died  in  1823,  devising  this 
manor  to  William  Henry,  Earl  of  Rochford,  his  brother,  who,  dying  in  1830, 
left  it  to  Alexander,  loth  Duke  of  Hamilton. 

The  manor  was  later  acquired  by  Colonel  George  Tomline,  from  whom 
it  has  descended  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Bacton,  in  Hartismere 
Hundred,  to  and  is  now  vested  in  the  Right  Hon.  Captain  E.  G.  Pretyman, 
D.L.,  of  Orwell  Park. 

Arms  of  RUSSELL  :  Arg.  a  chevron  betw.  3  cross-crosslets  fitche"e,  Sa. 


FELIXSTOW. 
FELIXSTOW  MANOR. 


43 


OGER  Bigot,  Earl  of  Norfolk,  had  117  lordships  in 
Suffolk,  oi  the  gift  of  William  the  Conqueror,  and  upon  one 
of  them  he  founded  the  Priory  of  Felixstow,  and  endowed 
it  with  the  Manor  of  Felixstow  Priory,  with  the  churches 
of  Walton  and  Felixstow,  and  with  the  tithe  and  other 
appurtenances  in  Walton.  About  the  year  1105  the  founder 
gave  it  as  a  cell  to  the  monastery  of  St.  Andrew  at 
Rochester,  and  the  monks  here  were  called  monks  of  Rochester.  The 
gift  was  confirmed  by  William  Rufus.  Until  the  Dissolution  this  manor 
belonged  to  the  Priory  of  Felixstow,  when  it  passed  to  the  Crown,  and 
was  in  1528  granted  by  Hen.  VIII.  to  Cardinal  Wolsey.  On  his  disgrace 
the  Crown  granted  the  manor  in  1530  to  Thomas,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  who, 
with  his  son  Henry  in  1544  exchanged  it  with  the  King  for  the  Castle  of 
Rysing  and  other  property. 

In  1576  Queen  Elizabeth  granted  the  manor  to  Thomas  Seckford. 
Later  it  probably  passed  with  the  Manor  of  Walton  to  the  Barkers  as  Offton 
Monks,  and  as  Grimston  Hall,  in  Trimley  St.  Martin,  in  this  Hundred. 


FOXHALL. 

HE  Domesday  Survey  contains  but  one  holding  under  Foxhall, 
namely,  15  acres  valued  at  2s.,  held  by  the  Abbot  of  Ely.1 

There  is,  however,  another  under  the  head  "  Derne- 
ford,"  which  is,  no  doubt,  Darnford,  in  Foxhall.  This  was 
of  80  acres  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  3  bordars  in  Saxon  times, 
having  4  ploughteams,  when  it  was  valued  at  405.,  but  at  the 
time  of  the  Survey  3  ploughteams  only,  when  it  was  valued 
at  155.  In  the  Confessor's  time  this  property  was  held  by  n  freemen  under 
commendation  to  Durrant,  who  was  half  Edric's  man  and  half  Harold's, 
and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  it  was  held  by  Hervey  of  Bourges  as  tenant  in 
chief.2 

There  are  also  six  other  entries  in  the  Survey,  under  "  Ingoluestruna  " 
and  "  Isleuestuna,"  which  evidently  belong  to  Ingulveston  or  Iselton  in 
Foxhall.  Two  of  them  were  in  the  chief  holding  of  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  one  being 
a  freeman  having  16  acres  of  land  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  with  half  a 
ploughteam  valued  at  35.,  which  Robert  Malet  held  of  the  abbot,  and  the 
other  being  a  freewoman  under  commendation  to  the  abbot,  having  30 
acres,  to  which  were  formerly  attached  a  ploughteam,  but  at  the  time  of 
the  Survey  only  half  a  team  and  2  bordars,  4  acres  of  meadow,  and  a 
freeman  with  10  acres,  valued  at  45. 3  Two  other  holdings  were  amongst 
the  lands  of  Geoffrey  de  Magnaville,  and  consisted  of  Goodrich,  a  freeman 
under  commendation  half  to  Halden  and  half  to  the  abbot,  having  20  acres 
of  land  and  2  of  meadow,  valued  at  2s.  ;  and  Halden  a  socman  holding  15 
acres  and  i  bordar,  to  which  holding  was  formerly  attached  a  ploughteam, 
but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  I  ox  only;  also  i  acre  of  meadow,  the  whole 
valued  at  2s.4 

Hervey  of  Bourges  had  two  other  holdings  in  Ingulveston,  in  Foxhall. 
One  was  of  a  carucate  and  4  acres  of  land,  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by 
13  freemen  under  commendation  to  Durrant,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey 


'Dom.  ii.  3866. 
2Dom.  ii.  4426. 


3  Dom.  ii.  3866. 

4  Dom.  ii.  413. 


44  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

by  6  freemen.  In  Saxon  times  there  had  been  5  ploughteams,  but  they 
had  come  down  to  I.  There  were  5  acres  of  meadow,  and  the  whole  was 
valued  at  105. 

The  other  holding  was  of  one  freeman  under  commendation  to  the  said 
Durrant,  holding  12  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  40^.  "  It," 
says  the  Survey,  but  "  it "  must  refer  to  the  township,  and  not  to  these 
two  small  holdings,  "is  6  quarentenes  long  and  5  broad,  and  pays  in  a  gelt 
j\d."  This  Peter  de  Paludel  held  of  Hervey  of  Bourges.1 

Under  the  lands  of  Hugh  de  Montford  we  meet  with  an  entry  in  the 
Survey  of  "  Isleuertona,"  which  is  no  doubt  the  same  as  the  place  above 
referred  to.  Hugh  held  here  4  freemen  under  commendation  to  Goodmund 
with  18  acres  and  i  acre  of  meadow,  formerly  2  ploughteams,  but  at  the 
time  of  the  Survey  i  only,  valued  at  £4.  ios.,  over  all  of  which  land  the 
Abbot  of  Ely  had  soc.' 

Foxhall  was  formerly  a  distinct  parish,  but  is  now  a  hamlet  to  Bright- 
well. 

FOXHALL  al.  CASWELL'S  MANOR. 

Before  the  time  of  Edw.  I.  there  were  three  manors  here — the  Manor  of 
Foxhall  al.  Caswell's,  Foxhall  Manor,  and  Felton's  Manor. 

Foxhall  or  Caswell's  belonged,  in  the  time  of  Hen.  III.,  to  the  Holbroke 
family,  and  William  de  Holbroke  in  that  reign  held  the  lordship,  which  on 
his  death  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Richard  de  Holbroke,  who  had  a  grant 
of  free  warren  here  in  1267.*  From  this  time  to  the  time  of  John  Fastolf, 
who  died  6th  Dec.  1506,  the  manor  passed  in  the  same  course  of  devolution 
as  the  manor  of  Brokes  Hall,  in  Nacton,  in  this  Hundred.  The  manor  is 
specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Sir  Thomas  Holbroke/ 
John  de  Holbroke,5  Hugh  Fastolfe,6  Sir  Hugh  Fastolf,7  and  Sir  John 
Fastolfe,'  and  is  included  in  a  fine  levied  in  1336  by  Sir  Thomas  de 
"  Holebrok  "  and  Margaret  his  wife  against  William  le  Neweman,  parson  of 
Tattingstone  Church,  and  Nicholas  Bonde.9 

We  next  find  the  manor  vested  in  the  Wingfield  family,  and  Sir  Anthony 
Wingfield,  Bart.,  died  seised  of  it  in  1628,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Sir  Rich.  Wingfield,  Bart.,  who  sold  it  to  Thos.  Essington,  who  held 
his  first  court  in  1653.  His  son  and  heir,  John  Essington,  sold  the  manor  to 
Sir  Sam.  Barnardiston,  3rd  son  of  Sir  Nathaniel,  who  held  his  first  court  here 
in  1664 ;  a°d  from  this  time  it  has  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  ot 
Brightwell,  in  this  Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  the  Right  Hon.  Captain 
E.  G.  Pretyman,  D.L.,  of  Orwell  Park. 

The  manor  was  offered  for  sale  26th  Aug.  1812,  when  the  property  of 
Sir  John  Gregory  Shaw,  Bart.  It  was  described  then  as  "  a  valuable 
freehold  estate  situate  in  Foxhall  and  Brightwell,  comprising  the  Manor  of 
Cassolis,  in  Foxhall,  abounding  with  game."  The  quit  rents  were  stated  to 
o®  i2-  3*-  3j<*-  per  annum,  and  the  fines  to  have  amounted  in  1811 
to^ ii.  55.  3<*.  It  is  stated  to  have  been  bought  by  Sir  Robert  Harland,  but 
this  does  not  seem  to  have  been  the  case. 

'Dom.  ii.  4426.  5I.P.M.,  50  Edw.  III.  31. 

P01"-  "•  4<>6-  «I.P.M.,  7  Hen.  IV.  34. 

Chart.  Rolls,  57  Hen.  III.  5.  ?  I.P.M.,  5  Hen.  V.  49. 

'I.P.M.,  34   Edw.   III.   75;   see  I.P.M.,         "I.P.M.,  26  Hen.  VI.  15. 

7  Hen.  VI.  58.  »  Feet  of  Fines,  10  Edw.  III.,  28. 


FOXHALL.  45 

FOXHALL  MANOR. 

This  manor  was  given  by  Hugh  de  Dernford  in  the  time  of  Hen.  II. 
to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  Holy  Trinity,  Ipswich,  where  it  remained 
until  the  Dissolution. 

The  priory  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here  in  1333.' 
It  was  granted  by  the  Crown  in  1544  to  Sir  Thomas  Pope,  Knt.,  who  the 
following  year  had  licence  to  alienate  to  Sir  John  Jermy.  Pope  first 
granted  a  lease  of  the  manor,  with  the  Manors  of  Codenham,  Greeting, 
and  Stonham,  to  Sir  John  Jermy  in  1545.  for  the  lease  is  still  preserved 
amongst  the  Charters  in  the  Bodleian.2  Sir  John  died  in  Nov.  1560, 
when  the  manor  passed  like  the  Manor  of  Metfield,  in  Mendham,  Hoxne 
Hundred,  to  his  son  and  heir,  Francis  Jermy,  on  whose  death  in  1611 
it  vested  in  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  Jermy.3 

FELTON'S  MANOR. 

We  learn  nothing  respecting  this  manor,  save  that  in  1803  it  was  the 
lordship  of  the  Rev.  John  Cartwright. 


'  Chart.  Rolls,  7  Edw.  III.  38.  '  See  Wicks  Bishop,  Ipswich. 

*  Bodl.  Suff.  Ch.  1302. 


46  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

GRUNDISBURGH. 

N  Saxon  times  there  were  four  manors  in  this  place.  One 
\\.is  held  by  Algar,  a  freeman  under  the  Abbot  of  Ely.  It 
consisted  of  I  carucate  and  30  acres,  2  villeins,  and  5  bordars, 

2  ploughteams  in  demesne  and  I  belonging   to  the  tenants, 
4  acres  of  meadow,  3  rouncies,  6  beasts,  16  hogs,  70  sheep,  and 

3  hives  of  bees.    The  valuation  in  Saxon  times  was  2os.,  but 
at  the  time  of  the  Survey  the  value  was  double.     It  was  at 

the  latter  period  held  by  Heivey  de  Berri  of  the  Abbot  of  Ely.  The  extent 
\vus  10  quarentenes  in  length  and  6  in  breadth,  and  it  paid  in  a  gelt  i$d. 
There  were  also  here  held  by  the  abbot  7  acres  which  had  been  held  in  the 
Confessor's  time  by  3  men  under  half  commendation  to  Algar,  valued  at 
I2d.' 

A  second  manor  had  been  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  Goodrich,  a 
freeman  under  Harold.  It  consisted  of  i  carucate  of  land,  and  had  i 
villein,  4  bordars,  a  ploughteam  in  demesne  and  i  belonging  to  the  tenants, 
and  3  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  i6s. 

The  Domesday  tenant  in  chiet  of  this  manor  was  Hervey  de  Bourges, 
who  also  held  here  3  half  freemen,  Godwin,  Ulwin,  and  Leuric,  under  com- 
mendation to  Harold,  having  7  acres,  formerly  with  half  a  ploughteam,  and 
valued  at  2s.,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey,  when  the  half  ploughteam  had 
disappeared,  valued  at  i2d. 

Hervey  also  held  in  demesne  2  freemen  Burric  and  Ailric,  under  com- 
mendation to  Aschil,  the  house-carl  in  the  Confessor's  time,  holding  5 
acres,  formerly  with  half  a  ploughteam,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  none, 
the  value  being  lod.  •  and  also  in  demesne  Brown,  a  freeman  under  commen- 
dation to  Edric,  predecessor  of  Robert  Malet,  holding  20  acres,  (and  these 
20  acres  he  held  of  Edric),  formerly  having  i  ploughteam,  but  by  the  time 
of  the  Survey  half  a  team.  There  were  also  2  acres  and  a  half  of  meadow. 
The  total  value  of  this  last  was  in  Saxon  times  55.,  but  at  the  time  of  the 
Survey  45.' 

The  third  manor  was  held  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  by  a  freeman  of 
Harold's  by  commendation,  and  his  wife  under  commendation  to  Haldene, 
having  60  acres  which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  4  freemen  held.  There  was 
one  villein,  and  there  were  2  bordars,  I  ploughteam,  and  2  acres  of  meadow, 
valued  at  los.  The  Domesday  tenant  was  Earl  Hugh.3 

The  fourth  manor  was  that  of  Roger  de  Poictou,  who  had  60  acres, 
formerly  held  by  a  freeman,  Brihtnoth,  under  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  with  3 
bordars.  Formerly  attached  to  the  manor  was  a  ploughteam  in  demesne 
and  half  a  team  belonging  to  the  tenants,  with  I  acre  of  meadow.  By 
the  time  of  the  Survey  the  ploughteam  in  demesne  had  disappeared.  The 
value  of  this  holding  was  155. 

Roger  de  Poictou  also  had  four  other  holdings  in  Grundisburgh.  The 
first  was  of  20  acres,  formerly  held  by  7  freemen  under  commendation  to  the 
Abbot  of  Ely,  with  i  ploughteam,  valued  at  45.  By  the  time  of  the  Survey 
there  was  but  half  a  team,  but  the  value  had  increased  to  55.  The  second 
was  a  freeman,  Siric,  King  Edward's  man,  having  i  acre  and  a  freeman 
under  commendation  to  Brichtric,  having  4  acres ;  and  2  freemen,  Aluric 
and  Brihtman,  under  commendation  to  Ailric  de  Burgh,  having  14  acres, 
formerly  having  among  them  i  ploughteam,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey 

'Doiii.  ii.  3.Sf>.  3Dom.  ii.  300. 

•Dom.  ii.  4416. 


GRUNDISBURGH.  47 

none,  the  value  being  IDS.  The  third  was  2  freemen,  one  under  commenda- 
tion to  the  Abbot  of  Ely  and  the  other  under  commendation  to  Halden, 
with  60  acres  and  6  bordars,  2  ploughteams,  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  formerly 
valued  at  125.,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  at  IDS.  The  fourth  was  of  40 
acres,  i  bordar,  a  ploughteam,  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  formerly  valued  at 
ios.,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  at  8s.,  which  in  the  Confessor's  time  had 
been  held  by  a  freeman  under  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  but  was  at  the  time  of  the 
Survey  held  by  Roger  of  Roger  de  Poictou.1 

There  were  three  other  small  holdings  here.  One  of  Robert  Malet, 
holding  2  socmen  under  commendation  to  Edric,  with  5  acres  and  half  a 
ploughteam,  valued  at  I2d.,  which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  was  held  by 
Humfrey,  son  of  Robert,  of  Robert  Malet." 

A  second  was  amongst  the  lands  of  Geoffrey  de  Magnaville,  and  consisted 
of  26  acres,  a  ploughteam,  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  45.,  held 
in  the  Confessor's  time  by  4  freemen  under  commendation  to  Halden,  and 
8  acres  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  i6d.,  formerly  held  by  Almar, 
a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Ailric  de  Burgh.3  And  amongst  the 
lands  of  Roger  de  Rheims  were  20  acres  held  by  Ralph,  and  belonging 
to  Newton  and  to  its  valuation.4 

GRUNDISBURGH  HALL  MANOR. 

This  was  vested  in  Sir  Hugh  Peche,  Knt.,  in  1270. 

He  claimed  a  market  and  fair,  and  fret  warren  here  in  1285. 5  On  his 
death  in  1292*  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Hugh  Peche,  who 
died  about  13107  when  it  went  to  his  sister  and  heir,  Eva,  who  married 
Sir  Robert  de  Tuddenham,  and  from  this  time  to  the  time  of  Sir  Edmund 
Bedingfield  in  1528  the  devolution  of  the  manor  is  the  same  as  thai  of  Great 
Bealings,  in  this  Hundred. 

The  last-mentioned  Sir  Edmund  Bedingfield  evidently  disposed  of  the 
manor,  for  amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth 
we  find  an  action  by  Thomas  Pells  and  Francis  Pells  to  complete  a  sale  of 
this  manor  made  by  Edmund  Bedingfield,  deceased,  to  the  plaintiffs  and 
others.8 

The  manor  is  specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Eva 
Tuddenham,  who  died  in  1311,'  also  of  Sir  Robert  Tuddenham,  who  died  in 
1337,'°  Sir  Robert  Tuddenham,"  Sir  John  Tuddenham,12  Margery  Tudden- 
ham,13 Sir  Thomas  Tuddenham,14  Margaret  Bedingfield,15  and  Sir  Thomas 
Bedingfield.16 

In  1591  a  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  by  John  Pells  against  Anthony 
Gosnold  and  others,'7  and  in  1609  the  lordship  was  held  by  Robert  Gosnold. 
In  1688  it  had  passed  to  Sir  William  Blois,  Knt.,  the  son  of  William  Blois, 
by  Frances,  daughter  of  John  Tye,  of  Ipswich,  which  William  Blois  died 
loth  Jan.  1621,  and  was  the  son  of  William  Blois  and  Alice  his  wife,  daughter 
of  William  Nottingham,  which  last-mentioned  William  Blois  died  in  1607, 
and  was  the  son  of  Richard  Blois,  who  died  in  1559,  by  Elizabeth  his  wife, 
daughter  of  Roger  Hill,  of  Needham. 

'  Dom.  ii.  346.  I0  ii  Edw.  III.  (2nd  Nos.)  no. 

2  Dora.  ii.  3156.  "5  Hsn.  V.  42. 

3  Dom.  ii.  4126.  "  10  Hen.  V.  266. 

4  Dom.  ii.  4236.  I3 10  Hen.  V.  38. 

5  Chart.  Rolls,  13  Edw.  I.  126.  '« 5  Edw.  IV.  34. 
•I.P.M.,  20  Edw.  I.  37.  '5 15  Edw.  IV.  38. 
?  I.P.M.,  3  Edw.  II.  31.  '« 31  Hen.  VIII.  5. 

8  C.P.  ii.  305.  v  Fine,  Easter,  33  Eliz. 

»  5  Edw.  II.  43. 


<8  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

The  Blois  family  had  resided  at  Grundisburgh  Hall  in  the  time  of 
Hen.  VII.,  and  were  of  French  extraction,  having  come  into  England,  it  is 
said,  at  the  Conquest.  An  Ernald  le  Bloy  was  one  of  Aubrey  de  Vere's 
knights  in  the  time  of  Hen.  II.,  and  we  meet  with  the  family  in  the 
times  of  Hen.  III.  and  Edw.  I.  in  Essex.  William  le  Bloy  held  in  1254 
some  of  the  knights'  fees  which  his  ancestor  Ernald  had  held  under  the 
de  Veres,  and  Adam  Bloy  was  sheriff,  with  William  Bared,  of  Essex  and 
Hertfordshire  in  1334.  The  earliest  mention  of  the  family  in  Suffolk  is 
in  1470,  when  we  find  a  branch  of  the  family  at  Norton. 

Thomas  Blois,  who  lived  there  in  1470,  was  the  father  of  Thomas 
Blois,  whose  son,  Thomas  married  Margaret,  daughter  of  William  Styles,  of 
Ipswich,  and  died  in  1528.  He  was  the  father  of  the  Richard  Blois,  of 
Grundisburgh,  who  died  in  1559,  above  mentioned. 

William  Blois,  who  held  the  manor  in  1668,  was  one  of  the  ten  members 
of  Parliament  elected  for  Suffolk  in  1654  and  1658.  He  married  Cecily, 
daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Wingfield,  of  Letheringham,  Knt.,1  and  died  in 
1673,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  4th,  but  eldest  surviving  son,  Sir  William 
Blois,  Knt.,  who  married  ist  Martha,  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Brooke,  of 
Cockfield  Hall,  in  Yoxford,  and  2ndly,  Jane,  daughter  of  Sir  Nathaniel 
Barnardiston,  of  Ketton,  Knt.,  widow  of  John  Brooke,  eldest  son  of  Sir 
Robert  Brooke.  Sir  William  Blois  died  in  1675,  and  from  this  time  to  the 
time  of  Sir  John  Blois,  5th  Bart.,  the  manor  devolved  in  the  same  course 
as  the  Manor  of  Blythburgh,  in  Ely  thing  Hundred. 

Sir  John  Blois,  5th  Bart.,  sold  this  manor  to  Brampton  Gurdon,  of 
Letton,  who  assumed  the  surname  of  Dillingham,  and  died  in  1820,  from 
which  time  the  manor  has  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of 
Abbot's,  in  Culpho,  in  this  Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  Lord  Cranworth, 
of  Letton  Hall. 

Courts  were  held  for  this  manor  27th  July,  1741,  I4th  Oct.  1763,  3rd 
Feb.  1766  ;  by  Brampton  Gurdon  Dillingham  I7th  Nov.  1812 ;  and  by 
Theophilus  Thornhagh  Dillingham  Gurdon,  27th  June,  1831. 

Arms  of  BLOIS  :  See  Blythburgh  Manor,  in  Blything  Hundred. 

Arms  of  GURDON  :  See  Culpho  Manor,  in  this  Hundred. 


1  An  inscription  in  Grundisburgh  Church, 
adds  :  "  by  Dame  Elizabeth  his 
wife.the  daughter  of  Sir  Dru  Drury, 
Kt.,  which  Sir  Thos.  was  the  son 
of  Sir  Robt.  Wingfield,  Knt.,  by 
Dame  Cecily  his  wife,  the  daughter 


of  Thos.,  Lord  Wentworth,  which 
Sir  Robt.  was  the  son  of  Sir 
Anthony  Wingfield,  K.G.,  by  Dame 
Elizabeth  his  wife,  the  sister  and 
coheir  of  John,  Earl  of  Oxford." 


HASKETON.  49 

HASKETON. 


MANOR  was  held  here  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  Alwin,  a 
freeman  under  the  Abbot  of  Ely.  It  consisted  of  40  acres, 
i  ploughteam,  and  i  acre  of  meadow,  formerly  valued  at  ios., 
but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  fixed  at  6s.  This  Alwin  could 
neither  sell  nor  give  his  land  away  from  the  Church  of  Ely. 
The  Domesday  tenant  in  chief  was  Roger  de  Poictou. 
Roger  de  Poictou  also  held  7  freemen  under  commendation 
to  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  with  16  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  35. 
He  held  besides  2  freemen  under  half  commendation  to  Edric,  the  pre- 
decessor of  Robert  Malet,  and  one  freeman  under  commendation  to  one 
who  was  himself  under  commendation  to  Edric,  and  one  under  commendation 
to  Brown.  These  freemen  had  12  acres  valued  at  2s. 

Roger  de  Poictou  had  also  in  Hasketon  three  other  smaller  holdings.  One 
was  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  having  9^  acres, 
and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  2s.  The  Survey  said,  "  It  was  6 
quarentenes  long  and  4  broad,"  which  it  is  presumed  must  refer  to  the  town- 
ship. The  last-mentioned  property  was  held  by  Roger,  son  of  Ernolf,  and 
paid  in  a  gelt  <\d.  The  second  of  these  smaller  holdings  was  in  the  time  of  the 
Confessor  held  by  2  freemen,  one  under  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of 
Ely,  and  the  other  under  commendation  to  Lustwin,  and  consisted  of  13 
acres,  valued  at  2s. 

The  third  consisted  of  25  acres  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  I  bordar, 
and  i  ploughteam,  valued  at  55.,  which  had  been  held  in  the  time  of  the 
Confessor  by  7  and  a  half  freemen  under  commendation  to  Edwold,  and 
one  and  a  half  of  these  were  under  commendation  to  Grimolf .  At  the  time 
of  the  Survey  the  value  was  45.' 

Amongst  the  possessions  of  Robert  Malet  we  find  three  entries  in  the 
Great  Survey.     One  had  been  held  in  the   Confessor's  time  by  a  freeman, 
Lustwin,  under  commendation  to  Edric  and  his  wife,  under  commendation 
to  Halden.     It  consisted  of  40  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  8s.,  of 
which  holding  the  Abbot  of  Ely  had  the  soc. 

The  second  had  been  held  by  2  freemen  under  commendation  to  Edric 
and  consisted  of  17  acres,  but  the  dwellings  of  the  freemen  were  in  another 
Hundred.  The  value  was  35.  The  third  of  these  holdings  consisted  of  a 
freeman  under  Edric  having  5  acres  valued  at  I2d."  The  Abbot  of  Ely 
also  held  here  22  acres,  valued  at  45. 3  The  only  other  entry  in  the  Survey 
of  lands  held  here  was  of  22  acres,  i  plough  team,  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow, 
valued  at  35.,  which  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  had  been  held  by  3  half 
freemen  and  i  full  freeman  under  commendation  to  Halden,  and  which  at 
the  time  of  the  Survey  was  held  by  Geoffrey  de  Magnaville  as  tenant  in 
chief.4 

Under  the  head  Aluredestuna,  which  is  probably  Hasketon,  we  find  in 
the  Survey  a  considerable  estate  held  by  Ivo  as  a  manor  of  Ranulf,  brother 
of  Ilger,  the  tenant  in  chief.  It  had  in  the  Confessor's  time  been  held  by 
Durrant,  a  freeman,  who  was  Robert  Malet's  predecessor. 

The  manor  consisted  of  i  carucate  and  80  acres,  7  villeins,  3  bordars, 

2  ploughteams  (reduced  to  i  by  the  time  of  the  Survey)  in  demesne,  and 

3  belonging  to  the  tenants,  4  acres  of  meadow,  i  mill,  3  beasts,  and  50  sheep. 
Also  a  church  with  12  acres  valued  at  I2d.     The  value  of  this  manor  was  in 

'Dom.  ii.  3466,  347.  3Dom.  ii.  386. 

*Dom.  ii.  315,  3156.  4Dom.  ii.  413. 

G 


5o  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Saxon  times  £4,  but  in  Norman  days  6os.      The  length  was  6  quarentenes, 
the  breadth  4,  and  it  paid  in  a  gelt  iod.' 

HASKETON  HALL  MANOR. 

This  was  the  Manor  of  Alwin,  a  freeman  under  the  Abbot  of  Ely  in 
Saxon  times,  and  of  Roger  de  Poictou  in  the  time  of  the  Conqueror.  By  the 
end  of  the  Conqueror's  reign,  the  manor  was  held  by  Ernald  Rufus,  son  of 
Roger,  and  in  1201  by  Ernald  le  Rus,  his  grandson,  who  was  succeeded  by 
his  son  and  heir,  Hugh  le  Rus,  to  whom  Hen.  III.  in  1227  granted  a  weekly 
market  in  Stradbroke,  and  at  Stinton,  in  Norfolk,  on  Friday,  and  one  at 
Wodebridge  on  Wednesday.*  He  was  one  of  the  collectors  of  the  fifteenths  in 
Norfolk  in  1226,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  William  Le  Rus, 
for  he  died  seised  of  this  manor  and  of  the  Manors  of  Stradbroke  and  Clop  ton 
in  1253,*  when  Alice,  his  daughter  and  heir,  was  aged  6  years  at  Christmas. 

There  is  another  inquisition  in  1260  of  this  William,  when  his  heir  is 
stated  to  be  his  daughter  Alice,  then  aged  14  or  15. 4  Alice  married  Sir 
Richard  de  Brewse,  Knt.,  2nd  son  of  Sir  William  de  Brewse  and  Maud  his 
wife. 

In  1268  we  find  this  Sir  Richard  de  Brewse  suing  one  Odo  de  Sincleberg, 
Ralph  de  Chapelyn,  and  others,  for  trespassing  on  his  manor  here.5  In  the 
same  year  we  find  him  described  as  Richard  de  "  Brewode,"  suing  Richard, 
son  of  Theobald,  Robert  Atherwald,  and  others,  for  trespass  on  the  manor.6 
This  Richard  and  Alice  in  1268  granted  to  the  priory  of  Woodbridge  10 
marks  per  annum  to  find  a  canon  to  celebrate  for  ever  in  the  priory  church 
for  their  souls ;  and  in  1272  William  de  Brewse  granted  by  fine  to  the  said 
Richard  and  Alice  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Akenham,  with  those  of 
Clay  don  and  Hemingston,  in  exchange  for  the  Manor  of  Bromley,  in  Surrey, 
and  others. 

It  is  said  that  in  1272  Maud,  wife  of  John  Giffard,  had  the  manor  for 
life ;  if  so,  she  may  have  been  the  widow  of  William  Le  Rus,  Alice's 
father  remarried.  Sir  Richard  de  Brewse  died  in  1296  or  1297,  and  Alice 
in  1300  or  1301,  when  the  manor  vested  in  her  son  and  heir,  Sir  Giles  de 
Brewse,  Knt.  He  was  lord  also  of  Akenham,  Clopton  and  Stradbroke, 
and  married  Catherine,  daughter  of  Sir  Laurence  de  Huntingfield,  by  whom 
he  had  no  issue,  but  by  a  second  marriage  he  had  three  sons.  Sir  Giles  de 
Brewse  died  in  1310,'  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir 
Richard,  who,  being  then  but  9  years  of  age,  came  into  the  wardship  of 
Edward  Bacon. 

Sir  Richard  Brewse  married  Eleanor,  eldest  daughter  of  Sir  John 
Shelton,  by  whom  he  had  two  daughters.  He  died  in  1323,  and  was  buried 
at  Woodbridge  Priory.  The  manor  passed  to  his  brother,  Sir  Robert  de 
Brewse. 

Sir  Robert  de  Brewse  died  hi  1325"  without  issue,  when  the  manor 
passed  to  his  brother  and  heir,  Sir  John  de  Brewse,  married  to  Agnes,  daughter 
of  Sir  Robert  Ufford.  On  his  death  the  manor  vested  in  his  son  and  heir, 
Sir  John  de  Brewse,  who  married  Joan,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Shardelowe, 

1  Dom.  ii.  425.  s  Abb.  of  PI.  52  Hen.  III.  Mich.  8,  in  dorso  ; 
'Close  Rolls,    9  Hen.  III.  pt.  ii.  i ;    10  52  Hen.  III.  Pleas,  Innocents  Day, 

Hen.   III.   29;    ii   Hen.   III.   8;  10. 

Chart  Rolls,  ii  Hen.  III.  pt.  ii.  9.  «  Abb.  of  PI.  51  and  52  Hen.  III.,  12  ;  52 
JI.P.M.,  37  Hen.  III.  file  14  (17).  Hen.  III.  East  13. 

4I.P.M.,  44  Hen.  III.,  file  23  (17).  i  I.P.M.,  4  Edw.  II.  40. 

8 1.P.M.,  19  Edw.  II.  95. 


HASKETON.  51 

and  on  his  death  in  1403  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Robert  de 
Brewse,1  who  married  Ela,  daughter  of  Sir  Miles  Stapleton,  of  Ingham,  co. 
Norfolk,  Knt.,  and  died  in  1456,  when  the  manor  passed  to  their  son  and 
heir,  Sir  Thomas  Brewse. 

He  married  ist  Mary,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Calthorp,  of  Burnham,  in 
Norfolk,  Knt.,  and  2ndly  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  Gilbert  Debenham, 
and  sister  and  heir  of  Sir  Gilbert  Debenham,  of  Little  Wenham,  Knt., 
and  in  1456  levied  a  fine  of  the  manor  with  Elizabeth,  his  2nd  wife,  against 
Thomas  Gardiner,  chaplain,2  no  doubt  on  the  occasion  of  some  settlement. 
Sir  Thomas  Brewse  was  High  Sheriff  of  Norfolk  in  1438,  and  of  Suffolk  in 
1442,  and  died  I7th  June,  1482.  His  will  is  dated  loth  July,  1479,  and 
it  was  proved  at  Norwich  27th  April,  1483. 3 

On  Sir  Thomas's  death  the  manor  devolved  on  his  son  and  heir,William 
Brewse,  of  Topcroft,  who  married  ist  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  John  Hopton, 
of  Blythburgh,  and  2ndly  Eleanor,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Robert  Bernard, 
of  Starston,  co.  Norfolk,  who  married  subsequently  Christopher  Calthorpe, 
of  Calthorpe,  co.  Norfolk.  William  Brewse  died  2gth  Oct.  1489,"  when  the 
manor  passed  to  his  eldest  daughter  and  coheir,  Thomasine,  married  to  Sir 
Thomas  Hansard,  of  Ludborough,  co.  Lincoln,  and  afterwards  of  Whitting- 
ham,  co.  Suffolk,  who  was  knighted  at  the  Battle  of  Stoke,  gth  June,  1487. 
Thomasine  died  2Oth  July,  1496,'  when  the  manor  passed  to  her  son  and 
heir,  Arthur  Hansard,  on  whose  death  in  1516  it  vested  in  his  son  and  heir, 
Giles  Hansard,  on  whose  death  in  1531  it  passed  to  his  daughter  and  heir, 
Katherine,  married  to  Thomas  Rous.  A  fine  was  in  1556  levied  by  John 
Marter  against  the  said  Thomas  Rous  and  others.6  Katherine  Rous  died 
without  issue  in  1558,  when  the  manor  passed  to  her  cousin  Erosild,  daughter 
and  heir  of  William  Bower,  son  and  heir  of  William  Bower,  and  of  Dorothy 
his  wife,  sister  of  Giles,  the  father  of  Katherine. 

On  the  opening  of  the  I7th  century,  the  manor  was  vested  in  Sir 
Thomas  Baker,  Knt.,  who  died  in  1625,  and  in  1636  it  was  vested  in  Robert 
Naunton,  who,  25th  April  this  year  held  his  first  court.  In  1648  the  manor 
had  passed  to  Robert  Marryott,  son  of  William,  who,  3oth  March  that  year, 
held  his  first  court.  He  married  ist  Frances,  daughter  and  coheir  of 
Laurence  Petts,  of  Kettleburgh,  and  2ndly  Margaret.  By  his  ist  wife 
he  had  a  daughter  only,  but  by  his  second  a  son  Robert,  who,  before  1645, 
succeeded  his  father  in  the  lordship.  The  son,  Robert  Marryott,  married 
22nd  April,  1658,  ist  Dorothy,  daughter  of  Stephen  Keeble,  of  Wood- 
bridge,  and  2ndly  Anne,  daughter  of  James  Wythe,  of  Framsden.  Robert 
Marryott  died  2Oth  Jan.  1675,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  daughter  and 
coheir,  Margaret,  and  a  first  court  was  held  25th  April,  1676,  by  John  Brame 
and  William  Hainond,  executors  of  Robert  Marryott' s  will  and  guardian 
of  Margaret.  She  married  Robert  Barker,  of  Great  Bealings,  son  of  Sir  John 
Barker,  of  Trimley,  Bart.,  who  held  his  first  court,  7th  Nov.  1682,  in  right 
of  his  wife.  In  1725  the  manor  was  vested  in  William  Churchill,  of  Wood- 
bridge,  who  held  courts  Feb.  1725,  26th  Jan.  1736,  and  gth  June,  1736, 
and  by  his  will,  dated  2Oth  April,  1735,  devised  the  manor  to  his  nephew, 
William  Castle,  who  held  his  first  court  for  the  manor  igth  May,  1737, 
and  subsequently  courts  ist  Aug.  1738,  8ih  Sept.  1750,  igth  April,  1751, 
and  i8th  Sept.  1758. 

1  See  Manor  of  Vaux,  Great  Wenham,  in  «  I.P.M.,  6  Hen.  VII.  i6th  Oct. 

Samford  Hundred.  5 1.P.M.,  5  Nov.  15  Hen.  VII. 

1  Feet  of  Fines,  34  Hen.  VI.  14.  6Fine,  Hil.  3  Mary  I. 
3 1.P.M.,  22  Edw.  IV.  3rd  Oct. 


5a  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

From  William  Castle  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  William 
Castle,  who  died  in  1770,  when  it  passed  to  his  widow  Katherine  (who  held 
a  court  Qth  May,  1770),  and  subsequently  to  his  daughter  and  heir  Katherine, 
married  to  Edward  Bouverie,  who,  with  her,  held  a  court  loth  April,  1788. 
In  or  about  1797,  John  Aldis  purchased  the  manor,  and  held  a  court  2Oth 
April  of  that  year.  He,  by  will  dated  nth  June,  1807,  devised  the  manor 
to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Thomas  Aldis,  who  was  about  10  years 
old  at  his  father's  death.  The  manor  was  shortly  afterwards  sold  to  William 
Rouse,  of  Hasketon,  for  £1,550.  He  died  in  1830,  when  the  manor  passed 
to  his  widow,  Mary  Ann  Rouse  (daughter  of  W.  Miller.)  She  died  in  1834, 
when  the  manor  vested  in  her  son,  Rolla  Rouse,  of  Fernhill,  J.P.  and  D.L. 

He  was  a  well-known  conveyancer  and  writer,  and  married  Elizabeth 
Jane,  eldest  daughter  of  Rev.  Philip  Meadows,  rector  of  Great  Healings, 
and  died  2nd  June,  1887,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  sons  Rolla  Charles 
Meadows  Rouse,  John  William  Rouse,  Frederick  Sidney  Rouse,  George 
Henry  Rouse,  and  Edward  Broughton  Rouse.  The  eldest  son  Rolla  C.  M. 
Rouse,  of  Woodbridge,  i6th  July,  1856,  married  Mary,  only  daughter 
of  J.  Kirkman,  M.D. 

The  grant  of  an  annuity  from  the  manor  in  1335  will  be  found  amongst 
the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum,1  and  a  lease  of  the  manor 
in  1482  will  be  found  amongst  the  Stowe  Charters,  also  in  the  British 
Museum.1  Extracts  from  the  Court  Rolls  of  the  manor  in  1646  will  be 
found  amongst  the  British  Museum  Additional  Charters.3 

Hasketon  Manor  House  is  a  large  mansion  of  white  brick,  standing  on 
high  ground,  and  belongs  to  the  trustees  of  the  late  Colonel  T.  W.  Haines, 
who  died  in  1895.  It  is  at  present  the  residence  of  Frank  Eugene  Pattison, 
Esq.  The  "  site  of  the  manor  "  and  6a.  2r.  op.  seems  to  have  been  dealt 
with  as  copyhold,  and  was  enfranchised  by  Devereux  Edgar,  when  William 
Churchill  was  lord,  by  deed  24th  March,  1728,  and  Hasketon  Hall  no  doubt 
belonged  to  the  Edgars  for  some  generations,  and  is  specifically  devised 
by  the  will  of  Devereux  Edgar,  gth  April,  1739,  to  his  son,  Devereux  Edgar, 
and  by  deed  dated  i6th  Feb.  1741,  it  was  sold  to  Francis  Brooke,  of  Wester- 
field,  for  £4,570.  The  manor  extended  into  the  parishes  of  Hasketon, 
Woodbridge,  Malton,  Burgh,  Boulge,  Bromswell,  "  Petristill,"  Martlesham, 
Bredfield,  Lowdham,  and  Eyke,  and  in  the  year  1754  there  were  88  tenants, 
and  the  amount  of  quit  and  free  rents  was  £12.  os.  o^d.  In  the  year 
1797  there  were  60  copyhold  and  10  free  tenants.  The  customs  were  that 
the  youngest  son  was  heir,  dower  one  third,  and  the  husband  had  curtesy. 
Thorpe  Hall  Manor  paid  a  free  rent  of  35.  qd.  to  this  manor. 
Arms  of  ROUSE  :  Sa.  two  bars  engrailed  arg. 

THORPE  HALL  MANOR. 

This  appears  in  the  Domesday  Survey  under  the  head  Thorpe,  and 
was  held  by  Halden,  a  freeman  in  the  Confessor's  time,  with  3  carucates  of 
land.  There  were  4  villeins,  14  bordars,  2  serfs,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne 
and  2  belonging  to  the  tenants,  7  acres  of  meadow,  2  rouncies,  7  beasts,  12 
hogs,  and  100  sheep,  valued  at  205.  It  was  8  quarentenes  long  and  6  broad, 
and  paid  in  a  gelt  15^.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  the  value  of  the  manor  had 
doubled,  and  there  were  some  variations  in  the  details  of  the  holding. 
Fhere  was  then  but  i  serf,  and  but  i  ploughteam  belonging  to  the  tenants. 
The  Domesday  tenant  in  chief  was  Geoffrey  de  Magnaville.4 

'Add.  Ch.  22577,  22578.  'Add  Ch.  1025. 

Stowe  Ch.  233.  4Dom.  ii.  4126. 


HASKETON.  53 

We  find  three  other  entries  in  the  Survey,  under  Colneis  Hundred,  of 
Thorpe,  which  may  refer  to  this  place.  Robert,  Earl  of  Moretaigne,  held 
10  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  40^.,  which  had  been  held  by  a 
freeman  named  Brumer,  Robert  Malet's  predecessor  under  commendation, 
when  it  was  valued  at  2s.  8d.'  Roger  Bigot  had  here  two  holdings,one  being 
held  of  him  by  Hugh  de  Hosden,  who  had  5  freemen,  Ulric,  Almar,  Ulrich, 
Alrich,  and  Kettle  (formerly  under  commendation  to  Norman),  with  82 
acres,  2  plough  teams,  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  2os.,  paying  in  a 
gelt  5^.  The  Survey  says,  "  It,"  but  what  is  not  clear,  "  is  4  quarentenes 
long  and  2  broad."  The  other  holding  was  that  of  William  of  the  Forest  of 
Roger  Bigot,  and  consisted  of  a  bordar  with  8  acres,  valued  at  2s.2 

William,  son  of  Sahala  de  Bouvilla  or  Bovile,  held  under  Geoffrey  de 
Magnaville,  and  in  the  reign  of  Stephen,  Paul  de  Bovile  held  the  lordship, 
which  passed  on  his  death  about  1216  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  William  de 
Bovile.3  From  him  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  William  de 
Bovile,  and  from  him  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  William  de  Bovile,  and  from 
him  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  William  Bovile,  who  died  in  I3I9,4  when  the 
manor  devolved  on  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  William  de  Bovile,  and  from  him 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  de  Bovile,  whose  daughter  and  heir, 
Margery,  married  Sir  Thomas  Wingfield,5  and  carried  the  manor  into  that 
family,  where  it  remained  for  nearly  three  centuries. 

Sir  Thomas  Wingfield  made  his  will  iyth  July,  1378,  wherein  he  directs 
that  he  be  buried  in  the  choir  of  the  priory  of  Letheringham,  and  that 
the  sum  of  £46.  135.  4^.  be  expended  on  his  funeral.  He  gives,  amongst 
other  bequests,  twelve  silver  spoons  and  six  pieces  of  plate  inscribed  with 
the  coat  armour  of  Brews,  on  condition  that  these  articles  should  not  be 
sold  or  alienated,  but  remain  with  his  heirs  for  ever.  With  a  daughter, 
Margaret,  married  to  Sir  Thomas  Hardell,  Sir  Thomas  had  a  son  John,  to 
whom  this  lordship  passed. 

Sir  John  Wingfield,  M.P.  for  Suffolk  in  1383,  received  the  honour  of 
knighthood,  and  presented  to  the  Free  Chapel  of  Stradbroke  in  1389.  He 
married  Margaret,  daughter  of  Sir  Hugh  Hastings,  Knt.,  of  Elsing,  in  Nor- 
folk, and  was  succeeded  by  his  son,  Sir  Robert  Wingfield,  who  married 
Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Russell,  Knt.,  of  Strensham,  co.  Wore., 
and  dying  3rd  May,  1409,  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Robert 
Wingfield,  M.P.  for  Suffolk  in  1428,  having  two  years  previously  received 
the  honour  of  knighthood  from  King  Hen.  VI.  at  Hereford.  He  was 
steward  to  John  de  Mowbray,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  and  married  Elizabeth, 
daughter  and  coheir  of  Sir  Robert  Gonsell,  of  Heveningham,  by  Lady 
Elizabeth  Fitz  Alan,  eldest  daughter  of  Richard,  loth  Earl  of  Arundel,  and 
sister  and  coheir  of  Thomas,  iith  Earl,  and  dying  in  1431  the  manor  passed 
to  his  eldest  son,  Sir  John  Wingfield,  of  Letheringham,  Sheriff  of  Norfolk 
and  Suffolk  in  1444  and  again  in  1472.  He  was  made  a  Knight  of  the 
Bath  at  the  Tower  in  1461,  and  in  1477  was  joined  in  commission  with 
the  Bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  and  others  to  treat  with  the  ambassadors  of 
France  at  Amiens. 

'  Dom.  ii.  292.  *  He  had  licence  to  alienate  or  to  retain 

*Dom.  ii.  3426.  on  granting  other  lands  in   1313. 

3  For  these   descents    see    Letheringham  I.Q.D.  7  Edw.  II.  139,  145  ;  N.R. 

Manor,  in  Loes  Hundred.  file  98,  8  ;    100,  12 ;   101,  3. 

5  See    Manor    of    Wingfield,    in    Hoxne 
Hundred. 


H 


THE    MANORS   OF   SUFFOLK. 


He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  J  ohn  Fitz  Lewis,  Knt.,  of  West 
Horndon,  in  Essex,  and  dying  in  1481,'  left  twelve  sons  and  three  daughters. 
The  manor  passed  first  to  Lady  Elizabeth,  widow  of  Sir  John  \Vingfield,  and 
on  her  death  to  Sir  John's  eldest  son,  Sir  John  Wingfield,  Sheriff  of  Norfolk 
and  Suffolk  in  1483  and  again  in  1492-3.  He  married  Anne,  daughter  of 
John  Touchet,  Lord  Audley,  and  dying  in  1509  the  manor  passed  to  his 
son  and  heir,  Sir  Anthony  Wingfield,  Esquire  of  the  body  to  the  King, 
knighted  for  his  conduct  at  Theronenne  and  Tournay,  made  subsequently 
comptroller  of  the  royal  household,  and  installed  Knight  of  the  Garter, 
8th  May,  1541.  In  the  will  of  King  Hen.  VIII.  he  is  given  a  legacy  of  £200 
and  appointed  one  of  the  executors.  He  married  Elizabeth,  eldest  daughter 
of  Sir  George  de  Vere,  Knt.,  and  sister  and  coheir  of  John,  I3th  Earl  of 
Oxford,  and  dying  20th  Aug.  1552'  the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son,  Sir 
Robert  Wingfield,  of  Letheringham,  M.P.  for  Suffolk,  who  had  for  his  first 
wife,  Cecily,  2nd  daughter  of  Thomas,  Lord  Wentworth,  by  whom  he  had 
with  other  issue,  two  sons — Sir  Anthony  Wingfield,  who  succeeded  his  father 
in  1596,  and  married  Anne,  daughter  of  William  Bird,  but  died  without 
issue,  and  Thomas  Wingfield,  to  whom  this  manor  passed  in  1609,  on  the 
death  of  his  brother,  Sir  Anthony,  and  of  his  2nd  wife,  Anne,  who  remarried 
Thomas  Clenche. 

Sir  Thomas  Wingfield  married  ist  Radclyffe,  daughter  of  Sir  Gilbert 
Gerrard,  Knt.,  Master  of  the  Rolls,  and  by  her  had  one  daughter.  He 
married  2ndly  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  Drue  Drury,  Knt.,  of  Riddlesworth, 
and  in  1581  a  fine  of  the  manor  was  levied  against  him  by  Henry  Warner.3 
Sir  Thomas  Wingfield  died  in  1609,  when  the  manor  passed  to  Henry 
Reynolds  and  Dame  Elizabeth  Wingfield,  widow  of  Sir  Thomas,  and  sub- 
sequently to  Sir  Thomas's  son,  Anthony  Wingfield,  of  Godwins,4  in  Suffolk, 
who  was  created  Bart,  ryth  May,  1627.  He  married  Anne,  daughter  of 
Sir  John  Deane,  Knt.,  of  Deane's  Hall,  in  Great  Maplestead,  co.  Essex,  and 
dying  3oth  July,  1638,  was  succeeded  by  his  son,  Sir  Richard  Wingfield,  2nd 
Bart.,  of  Letheringham  and  Easton,  who  married  ist  nth  June,  1649, 
Susanna,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Jacob,  ist  Bart.,  and  had  a  son  Robert. 

Sir  Richard  espoused  2ndly  Mary,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Wintour,  Knt., 
of  Lidney,  co.  Glouc.,  by  Mary,  daughter  of  Lord  William  Howard,  son  of 
Thomas,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  and  had  another  son,  Henry.  Sir  Richard  held 
courts  I2th  April,  1654  ;  6th  Dec.  1654 ;  2nd  May,  1655  ;  2yth  Nov.  1655  ; 
I4th  May,  1656 ;  gth  July,  1656;  and  died  in  1656,'  when  the  manor  passed 
to  his  elder  son,  Sir  Robert  Wingfield,  3rd  Bart.,  who  held  a  court  22nd 
April,  1657,  and  died  unmarried  in  167 1.6 

He  had,  however,  during  his  life,  disposed  of  the  manor  to  his  cousin, 
William  Blois,  of  Grundisburgh,  the  son  of  William  Blois,  who  had  married 
Cecily,  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Wingfield.  Sir  William  Blois  held  his  first 
court  nth  April,  1659,  and  from  this  time  to  the  death  of  Jane,  the  widow 
of  Sir  William  Blois,  in  1682,  the  descent  of  the  manor  is  identical  with  that 
of  Blythburgh,  in  Blything  Hundred. 

Courts  were  held  for  the  manor  by  the  Blois  family,  24th  Oct.  1659; 
7th  May,  1660;  2Oth  June,  1661;  i6th  June,  1662;  23rd  April,  1663;  5th 
Oct.  1663 ;  30th  June,  1664 ;  isth  Aug.  1665 ;  25th  April,  1667 ;  3oth  July,  1667 ; 


'I.P.M.,  21  Edw.  IV.  59. 

•I.P.M.,  7  Edw.  VI.  65. 

'Fine,  Easter,  23  Eliz. 

4  See  Hoo  Manor,  in  Loes  Hundred. 


5  Admin.  28th  Dec.  1656. 
'Admin.    lyth    July,   1671;    i4th    Feb. 
1671-2 ;  and  i8th  May,  1678. 


HASKETON. 


55 


2nd  Oct.  1667;  igthDec.  1667;  2ist  Aug.  1668;  22nd  June,  1671;  i8th  July, 
1673;  25th  Sept.  1673;  2Oth  Oct.  20  Car.  II.;  ist  May,  1674;  i3th  Aug.  1674; 
30th  June,  1675;  2Oth  Sept.  1675;  22nd  Oct.  1675;  3ist  Aug.  1676 ;  3ist 
Jan.  1677;  26th  Sept.  1678;  i2thDec.  1678;  igth  Dec.  1678.  By  Jane  Blois, 
widow,  5th  May,  1679;  I2th  Aug.  1680;  i6th  Oct.  1680;  6th  Oct.  1681; 
ist  Feb.  1682. 

The  manor  does  not  seem  to  have  passed  to  Sir  Charles  Blois.  the  ist 
Baronet  of  the  Blois  family,  who  was  the  son  of  Sir  William  by  his  ist  wife, 
for  we  find  that  by  1683  it  was  vested  in  Robert  Thompson,  who  accordingly 
held  a  court  for  the  manor  2oth  April  this  year,  and  again  7th  Sept.  1684, 
and  ist  June,  1686,  &c.  On  the  death  of  Robert  Thompson,  the  manor 
passed  to  Joseph  Thompson  and  Frances  Thompson,  widow,  executors  of 
Robert,  and  they  held  their  first  court  25th  April,  1695. 

Joseph  Thompson  was  lord  in  1727  and  William  in  1744,  the  latter 
holding  his  first  court  igth  June,  1744.  Robert  Thompson  was  lord  in  1765, 
he  holding  his  first  court  4th  July  this  year.  In  1789  the  manor  had  passed 
to  the  trustees  and  executors  of  the  will  of  Robert  Thompson,  for  they, 
Thomas  Corbett  and  Stamp  Brooksband,  held  their  ist  court  22nd 
June  this  year.  Thomas  Corbett  was  lord  in  1805.  This  manor  pays  a 
small  annual  rent  to  the  main  manor. 

Court  Rolls  of  this  manor  from  1457  to  1459  will  be  found  amongst  the 
Harleian  Rolls  in  the  British  Museum,1  and  deeds  dated  between  1539  and 
1685  relating  to  this  manor  will  be  found  amongst  the  Additional  Charters 
in  the  last-mentioned  depository.2  Amongst  the  Exchequer  Depositions 
taken  at  Woodbridge,  we  have  notice  of  a  suit  between  John  Punchard 
and  Thomas  Tree  in  1715  respecting  the  rectory  and  this  manor,  and 
also  the  tithes. 

A  fine  was  levied  in  1580  by  John  Baker  and  others  against  Thomas 
Baker  and  others.3 

THE  RECTORY  MANOR. 

Little  is  known  respecting  this.  It  is  now  held  by  the  Rev.  Charles 
Arthur  Sinclair,  M.A.,  of  St.  Peter's  College,  Cambridge.  Extracts  from 
Court  Rolls  of  this  manor  between  1467  and  1606  will  be  found  amongst 
the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.4  They  are  admittances 
of  various  persons  holding  of  the  manor  ;  one  the  admittance  of  Richard 
Dryver  and  Alice  his  wife  to  a  messuage,  garden,  and  courtyard,  with  a 
separate  path  called  Throckyldys  in  Hasketon,  of  which  the  said  Richard 
had  surrendered  the  copyhold.  It  is  dated  Saturday  next  after  the  feast 
of  All  Saints  (ist  Nov.),  7  Edw.  IV.  [1467].  A  second  is  of  Jane  Forster.5 
A  third  is  an  admittance  of  Thomas  Partrych,  of  Ipswich,  farmer,  to  the 
copyhold  of  a  rood  of  land  in  Hasketon  at  Tynctewall  Hylle,  surrendered 
by  Robert  Salys  and  Merioll  his  wife  for  a  rent  of  one  halfpenny  ;  and  an 
admittance  of  the  same  to  the  copyhold  of  the  Fyye-acre  Close  in  Hasketon, 
surrendered  by  the  same,  for  a  rent  of  2s.  This  is  dated  the  Monday  after 
Palm  Sunday,  25th  Hen.  VIII.  [1537].  Another  is  the  admittance  of  Thomas 
Partrich,  of  Ipswich,  to  the  copyhold  of  Crowes,  Overapys,  Netherapys, 
and  Gravell  pitts  in  Hasketon,  on  the  surrender  of  Robert  Salys  and  Merioll 
his  wife,  and  bears  same  date  as  last.6  Another  is  the  admittance  of 

'  Harl.  Rolls,  B.  321.  •»  Add.  Ch.  33011-33033. 

2 Add.  Ch.  33035,  33040.  'Add.  Ch.  33012. 

3  Fine,  Hil.  22  Eliz.  6Add.  Ch.  33021. 


56  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK, 

Christopher  Lamberd  and  Christina  his  wife  to  the  copyhold  of  the  Five- 
acre  Close  in  Hasketon,  and  a  rood  of  land  at  Tyntewallhille,  and  two  pieces 
in  a  field  called  Gravell  pitts,  on  the  surrender  of  Thomas  Partriche.  It  is 
dated  at  the  first  court  of  Thomas  Tompson,  clerk,  rector,  the  Thursday  next 
before  the  feast  of  St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude  (28th  Oct.),  34  Hen.  VIII.  [1542].' 
Another  is  the  admittance  of  Anne  Lomberde,  daughter  of  Christ.  Lomberde, 
deceased,  to  the  copyhold  of  her  father's  land  in  Hasketon,  she  being  then 
eight  years  of  age,  under  the  guardianship  of  Sir  Anthony  Wingfield, 
K.G.,  Controller  of  the  King's  Household  (Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Thorp 
Hall,  Hasketon).  It  is  dated  the  Thursday  next  before  the  feast  of  the 
Annunciation  (25th  Mar.)  4  Edw.  VI.  [1550].* 


1  Add.  Ch.  33022.  Add.  Ch.  33024. 


HEMLEY.  57 

HEM  LEY. 

N  Saxon  times  there  was  no  manor  in  this  place.  There 
were,  however,  nine  different  holdings  mentioned  in  the 
Great  Survey  ;  four  of  these  were  specified  among  the  posses- 
sions of  Ranulf,  brother  of  Ilger. 

The  first  of  these  consisted  of  22  acres  in  the  time  of  the 
Confessor,  held  by  a  freeman  under  Brictmar,  half  under 
commendation  to  Briht  and  half  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  but 
at  the  time  of  the  Survey  held  by  Ranulf  of  the  King  by  livery  as  part  of 
his  demesne. 

The  abbot,  however,  contended  that  Ranulf  ought  to  hold  the  half  of 
him.  To  this  holding  was  attached  a  ploughteam,  a  bordar,  an  acre  of 
meadow,  and  i  serf  in  Saxon  times,  but  the  ploughteam  had  disappeared 
by  the  time  of  the  Survey.  The  whole  was  valued  at  45.  The  second  con- 
sisted of  20  acres,  2  bordars,  i  ploughteam,  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow, 
valued  at  45.,  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  Ulward,  a  freeman  under  com- 
mendation to  Goodrich. 

The  third  consisted  of  5  acres,  half  a  ploughteam,  and  half  an  acre  of 
meadow,  valued  at  I2d.,  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  a  freeman,  Hardwin, 
under  commendation  to  one  himself  under  commendation  to  Norman,  and 
half  under  Edric's  commendation. 

The  fourth  holding  of  Ranulf  was  of  9  acres,  half  a  ploughteam,  and 
half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  35.,  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  a 
freeman  named  Brihtric,  under  commendation  half  to  Brihmar  and  half  to 
Stanmar.  There  was  also  a  church  and  8  acres,  valued  at  2s.  All  were  held 
by  Ranulf,  Ilger's  brother,  by  livery  of  the  King  and  William  de  Nemours 
of  him,  the  abbot  having  the  soc.1  In  this  place  the  Countess  of  Albemarle 
held  a  villein  with  9  acres,  valued  at  20^.,  the  villein  belonging  to  Clopton.2 

William  de  Arcis  also  held  here  a  bordar  with  5  acres  which  belonged  to 
Clopton  and  was  included  in  its  valuation.3  Among  the  lands  of  Roger 
Bigot  were  20  acres,  2  bordars,  half  a  ploughteam,  and  an  acre  of  meadow, 
valued  at  35.,  and  paying  in  a  gelt  4^.,  which  had  been  held  by  2  freemen 
under  commendation  to  Osfert  and  Goodrich.4 

The  only  other  holding  mentioned  was  10  acres  belonging  to  Clopton, 
to  which  were  attached  2  bordars  and  2  men  included  in  the  valuation  of  that 
place.  This  was  held  by  Roger  de  Poictou  as  Domesday  tenant  in  chief.5 

HEMLEY  MANOR. 

This  manor  was  no  doubt  composed  of  the  lands  held  in  Saxon  times 
by  Brictmar,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  by  William  de  Nemours,  of 
Ranulf,  brother  of  Ilger.  In  1601  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  the  manor 
by  Eliazer  Duncon  and  others  against  Charles  Cornwalleys  and  others.6 

Little  is  known  ot  the  history  of  this  manor,  but  in  1844  Hemley  Hall 
was  the  property  of  the  Rev.  George  Drury,  of  Clayton,  and  he  was  supposed 
to  have  held  the  lordship.  It  was  also  stated  in  White's  Directory  for  1885 
that  the  Rev.  G.  H.  Porter  was  then  lord,  and  in  1896  and  at  the  present 
time  we  find  Richard  Porter  stated  to  be  lord.  The  only  place  in  which  the 

1  Dom.  ii.  424.  4Dom.  ii.  3406. 

2Dom.  ii.  431.  5Dom.  ii.  3496. 

3  Dom.  ii.  4316.  6Fine,  Mich.  43-44  Eliz. 


58  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

manor  seems  to  be  referred  to  besides  these  modern  authorities  is  in  the 
Chancery  Proceedings  of  the 27th  year  of  Elizabeth,  where  we  find  a  claim 
under  a  will  by  John  Wood  and  Anne  his  wife,  and  Alice  Backler,  daughters 
of  Christopher  Backler,  against  Adam  Fuller  and  Nicholas  Backler,  as  to 
freehold  lands  in  Hemley.and  copyhold  lands  held  of  the  Manors  of  Hemley, 
Waldringfield,  and  Newbourne,  late  of  the  said  Christopher  Backler.1 


1  C.P.  iii.  304. 


KESGRAVE.  59 

KESGRAVE. 

HERE  were  two  manors  in  this  place  in  Saxon  times,  but 
specified  in  the  Survey  under  the  head  of  Greenwich.  The 
two  holdings  besides  the  manors  were  those  of  Robert 
Malet.  One  consisted  of  20  acres  of  land  and  i  ploughteam, 
valued  at  35. 4^.,  held  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  by  3  freemen 
under  commendation  to  Godwin,  Robert  having  the  soc  and 
sac  ;  and  the  other  of  10  acres,  valued  at  i6d.,  which  had 
been  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  Oslac,  a  freeman  under  commendation 
to  Edric,  of  Laxfield,  with  a  ploughteam.  There  was  half  a  church  estate 
with  2  acres  and  the  soc  and  sac  belonged  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely.  "  It,"  says 
the  Survey,  "  is  half  a  league  long  and  4  quarentenes  broad,"  and  it  paid  in 
a  gelt  4%d.* 

Under  the  head  "Greenwic,"  which  is  Greenwich,  in  Kesgrave,  we  find 
the  manors  amongst  the  lands  of  Roger  de  Poictou.  They  consisted  of  two 
carucates  of  land,  and  had  in  the  Confessor's  time  belonged  to  2  freemen,  i 
under  commendation  to  the  Confessor  and  the  other  to  Gurth.  To  these 
manors  appertained  3  acres  of  meadow,  3  villeins,  7  bordars,  4  ploughteams 
in  demesne  and  6  belonging  to  the  men,  all  of  which  ploughteams  most 
strangely  had  disappeared  by  the  time  of  the  Survey.  The  valuation  in 
Saxon  times  was  405.,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  los.  only.  The  extent 
of  these  manors  was  6  quarentenes  in  length  and  4  in  breadth,  and  the  pay- 
ment in  a  gelt  $d.2 

KESGRAVE  MANOR,  OR  TUDDENHAM'S  IN  KESGRAVE. 

In  the  time  of  Edw.  I.  the  lordship  was  vested  in  Sir  John  de  Holbroke, 
Knt.,  who  died  in  1316,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  de 
Holbroke. 

In  the  next  reign  the  manor  was  apparently  held  by  Richard  de 
Martlesham  and  Maud  his  wife  for  their  lives,  and  Sir  John  de  Ufford  and 
Edmund  de  Ufford,  brother  to  the  Earl  of  Suffolk,  released  all  their  rights 
in  the  manor  to  Robert  Tudenham,  who  died  seised  of  it  in  I337,3  when  it 
passed  to  his  brother  and  heir,  Thomas  Tudenham. 

It  probably  then  went  to  the  family  of  Bedingfield,  as  in  the  case  of 
Great  Bealings  Manor,  and  it  is  said  that  Thomas  Bedingfield  about  1582 
sold  it  to  John  Castle.  It  appears,  however,  according  to  a  fine  levied  in 
1584,  that  the  manor  came  to  Thomas  Gooding  from  Alexander  Bedingfield.4 
Certain  it  is  that  Thomas  Gooding  died  seised  of  it  in  1595,  when  it  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Gooding.5 

In  1662  the  manor  was  vested  in  Thomas  Essington,  of  Brightwell 
Hall,  and  on  his  death  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Essington. 

In  1723  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  Francis  Gulston,  of  Widial,  co. 
Herts,  and  Sarah  his  wife,  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Stebbing,  son  and  heir 
of  Henry  Stebbing,  and  Anne  his  wife,  whose  maiden  name  was  Smithier,  and 
they  conveyed  it  in  1758  to  Thomas  Alderton,  of  Shotley,6  who  sold  it  by 
agreement  dated  I5th  April,  1769,  to  Lieut-Col.  Richard  Phillipson  for 
£5,000,  subject  to  an  annuity  of  £40,  which  had  been  limited  by  the  will  of 
Thomas  Gooding,  loth  April,  37  Eliz.  The  annuity  was  purchased 
by  the  Colonel  in  1771,  and  he,  by  his  will,  27th  June,  1789,  devised  the 

1  Dom.  ii.  315.  «  Fine,  Trin.  26  Eliz. 

2  Dom.  ii.  347.  5  See  Freston  Manor,  in  Samford  Hundred. 
U.P.M.,  ii  Edw.  III.  (2nd  Nos.)  no.  6Fine,  Mich.  25  Geo.  II. 


60  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

manor,  with  the  residue  of  his  property,  to  his  niece,  Susanna,  wife  of  the 
Rev.  Charles  Wright,  who  took  the  name  of  Burton-Phillipson.  The  will 
was  proved  in  the  Prerogative  Court  27th  Aug.  1792.  By  fine  levied  isth 
July,  1790,  the  manor  was  settled  to  such  uses  as  Charles  Burton-Philippson 
and  his  wife  should  appoint,  and  in  default  to  husband  for  life,  remainder 
to  wife  for  life,  then  to  children,  as  husband  and  wife  should  appoint,  and 
to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the  wife  begotten  by  Philippson  in  fee.  The 
husband  died  I7th  Feb.  1800,  and  Susannah,  his  widow,  married  Rev. 
Abraham  David  Hake,  and  the  manor  was  appointed  after  the  death  of 
Susanna,  to  her  son,  Richard  Burton  Burton-Philippson  in  fee.  Susanna 
Hake  died  in  Jan.  1803. 

In  1811  the  hall  and  manor  were  purchased  by  William  Cunliffe 
Shawe,  of  Singleton  Lodge,  co.  Lancaster.  He  was  M.P.  for  Preston,  and 
married  ist  Dorothy,  daughter  of  Richard  Whitehead,  of  Preston,  and 
andly  Philippa,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Charles  Pole,  of  Southgate,  co. 
Middlesex,  M.P.  for  Liverpool.  He  died  in  Nov.  1821,  leaving  by  his  ist 
wife  a  son,  Robert  Newton  Shaw,  to  whom  the  manor  passed.  Robert 
Newton  Shaw  was  J.P.,  D.L.,  and  M.P.  for  East  Suffolk,  and  chairman  for 
some  years  of  the  Woodbridge  Quarter  Sessions.  He  married  3ist  Oct.  1811 
Frances  Anne,  daughter  of  Thomas  Jones,  of  Stapleton,co.  Gloucester,  and 
died  without  issue  in  Nov.  1855. 

The  hall,  situate  about  a  mile  E.  by  N.  of  the  church,  was  entirely 
rebuilt  in  1812.  Page  mentions  that  through  the  marriage  of  his  ancestor, 
Joseph  Shawe  (he  was  W.  C.  Shawe's  grandfather),  of  Liverpool,  with 
Dorothy,  eldest  daughter  and  coheir  of  John  Wingfield,  of  Hazleborough 
Hall,  Derby,  Robert  Newton  Shawe,  was  descended  from  Sir  Humphrey 
Wingfield,  of  Brantham  Hall,  who  was  speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
and  one  of  the  burgesses  in  Parliament  for  Ipswich  in  the  time  of  King 
Hen.  VIII. 

The  manor  became  later  vested  in  George  Tomline,  and  after  a  like 
descent  with  the  Manor  of  Bacton,  in  Hartismere,  is  now  vested  in  his 
representative,  the  Right  Hon.  Capt.  Ernest  G.  Pretyman,  of  Orwell  Park, 
D.L. 

This  manor  was  apparently  included  in  a  fine  levied  in  1357  by  W'illiam 
Pottere  against  Sir  John  de  Ufford,  Adam  de  Skakilthorp,  parson  of  Causton 
Church,  and  Adam  de  Hautboys,  parson  of  Cockfield  Church,  Richard  de 
Martlesham  and  Matilda  his  wife,  then  holding  the  manor  for  life.' 


'Feet  of  Fines,  31-32  Edw.  III.  48. 


KIRTON. 


61 


KIRTON. 

N  Saxon  times  there  was  no  manor  in  this  place,  but  there 
are  four  holdings  mentioned  in  the  Survey,  three  of  which 
belonged  to  Roger  Bigot. 

The  first  consisted  of  7  acres  and  an  acre  of  meadow, 
valued  at  35.,  and  was  held  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  by  a 
freeman,    Goodrich    the     priest,    under    commendation  to 
Edric  before  he  made  himself  an  outlaw,  and  afterwards  to 
Norman. 

The  second  consisted  of  a  church  with  6  acres  valued  at  12^.,  held  by 
Wihtmar  of  Roger  Bigot  ;  and  the  third  consisted  of  20  acres,  a  bordar, 
and  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  35.,  which  had  been  held  by  3  freemen  under 
commendation  to  Norman,  Grim,  Brihtric,  and  Stanmar. 

The  Survey  said  :  "It,"  probably  meaning  the  township,  "  was  2 
quarentenes  in  length  and  2  in  breadth,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  2d.:  The  fourth 
holding  was  that  of  Roger  de  Rheims  consisting  of  2  acres,  valued  at  4^." 

KIRKTON  OR  KIRTON  MANOR. 

There  appear  to  be  two  manors  in  Kirton,  for  one  now  belongs  to 
Capt.  E.  G.  Pretyman,  of  Orwell  Park,  D.L.,  by  inheritance  from  Col. 
Tomline,  who  acquired  from  the  Duke  of  Hamilton,  who  held  in  1855,  and 
the  other  now  held  by  Francis  Taylor,  having  been  acquired  from  the  heirs 
of  the  Rev.  J.  Cartwright,  who  held  the  same  prior  to  1855. 

One  of  the  manors  was  formed  out  of  the  holdings  of  Roger  Bigot.  It 
is  not  clear  to  whom  in  very  early  days  either  of  these  manors  belonged,  but 
one  was  for  some  generations  the  lordship  of  the  Stratton  family. 

In  the  time  ot  Edw.  III.  it  was  held  by  Walter  de  Stratton,  and  we  meet 
in  ±376  with  a  fine  levied  by  this  Walter  against  Margaret,  daughter  of 
Ralph  de  Shymplygford.3  Somewhat  later  the  manor  was  held  by  George 
Stratton,  son  and  heir  of  Augustus  Stratton.  Edward  Stratton  died 
seised  of  the  manor  in  1477,*  and  a  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  in  1567 
by  Thomas  Stratton,  son  of  John  Stratton.5  There  is,  however,  amongst 
the  State  Papers  in  1597  a  grant  of  the  manor  in  perpetuity  to  Robert 
Barker,  of  Ipswich.6 

In  1702  we  find  amongst  the  Treasury  Papers  a  petition  of  the  tenants 
and  suitors  of  parcel  of  the  Duchy  of  Cornwall  for  the  continuance  of  Edmund 
Lay  ton,  as  under-steward  of  the  manor.7 

The  other  manor  seems  to  have  been  held  by  the  Sampson  family,  and 
Davy  makes  Thomas  Sampson,  of  Playford,  who  died  in  1483,  lord,  from 
whom  he  makes  the  manor  descend  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of 
Playford,  in  Carlford  Hundred,  to  Sir  Henry  Felton,  Bart.  It  is  not  easy  to 
distinguish  between  entries  relating  to  this  manor  and  the  Manor  of  Kirkton, 
in  Shotley. 

One  of  the  manors  in  1804  belonged  to  Sir  William  Rowley,  Bart.,  and 
the  following  year  to  the  Rev.  John  Cartwright. 

There  is  amongst  the  State  Papers  in  1530  a  grant  in  fee  of  Kirton 
Manor  to  Thomas,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  at  that  time  said  to  have  been  in  the 
King's  hand  by  reason  of  the  attainder  of  Cardinal  Wolsey.8 


1  Dom.  ii.  340,  3426. 

JDom.  ii.  4236. 

3  Feet  of  Fines,  50  Edw.  III.  17. 

'I.P.M.,  17  Edw.  IV.  34- 


5  Fine,  9  Eliz.  30. 

6s.p.  1597-427- 

7T.P.  1702,  85;  1703,  150,  151- 
"S.P.,  22  Hen.  VIII.  220  (n) 


62  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

LEVINGTON. 

OUR  holdings  here  are  mentioned  in  the  Survey.  Two  of 
these  belonged  to  Roger  Bigot.  The  first,  consisting  of  4 
acres,  valued  at  8d.,  was  held  by  Leverich,  a  freeman  under 
Norman.  The  Survey  says  (probably  referring  to  the 
township),  "  it  was  4  quarentenes  long  and  2  broad,  and 
pays  4</.  in  a  gelt."  The  second  consisting  of  32  acres,  2 
ploughteams,  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  IDS.,  was 
held  by  10  freemen  under  commendation  to  Norman — Goodman,  Leverich, 
Brihtric,  Gunnere,  Ulrich,  Siwold,  Huna,  Whita,  and  Goodrich.  These 
freemen  were  held  by  William  de  Burnaville  of  Roger  Bigot.  There  was 
also  a  church  with  8  acres,  valued  at  12^.' 

The  third  holding  was  that  of  Hugh  de  Montfort,  and  consisted  of  20 
acres  held  by  3  freemen  in  Saxon  times  under  commendation  to  Goodmund. 
In  the  time  of  the  Confessor  there  were  2  ploughteams  attached  to  this 
holding,  which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  were  reduced  to  i.2 

Kirby  informs  us  that  in  a  farmer's  yard  in  Levington,  close  on  the  left 
as  you  enter  from  Levington  into  the  chapel-field  of  Stratton-hall, 
was  dug  the  first  crag  or  shell,  that  has  been  found  so  useful  for  improving 
the  land  in  this  and  other  Hundreds  in  the  neighbourhood.  "  For  though  it 
appears  from  books  of  agriculture  that  the  like  manure  has  been  long  since 
used  in  the  west  of  England,  it  was  not  used  here  till  this  discovery  was 
casually  made  by  one  Edmund  Edwards,  about  the  year  1718.  This  man, 
having  to  cover  a  field  with  muck  out  of  his  yard,  and  wanting  a  load  or 
two  to  finish  it,  carried  some  of  the  soil  that  laid  near  his  muck,  though  it 
looked  to  him  to  be  no  better  than  sand  ;  but,  observing  the  crop  to  be  the 
best  where  he  laid  that,  he  was  from  thence  encouraged  to  carry  more  of  it  the 
next  year ;  and  the  success  he  had  encouraged  others  to  do  the  like." 
Kirby  further  says  that  "  this  useful  soil  has  been  found  in  great  plenty 
upon  the  sides  of  such  vales  as  may  reasonably  be  supposed  to  have  been 
washed  by  the  sea  ;  towards  which  such  light  shells  might  be  naturally 
carried,  either  at  Noah's  flood,  or  by  the  force  of  the  tides  to  some  places 
since  forsaken  by  the  sea.  Whoever  looks  into  any  of  these  crag  pitts 
cannot  but  observe  how  they  lie  layer  upon  layer  in  a  greater  or  less  angle, 
according  to  the  variation  of  the  tides.  But  when  we  consider  that  the 
wells  in  Trimley  Street,  about  a  quarter  of  a  mile  distant  from  the  mill,  are 
about  25  feet  deep,  and  that  the  springs  all  rise  in  crag,  we  can  no  way 
account  for  this  crag  so  many  feet  under  ground,  but  from  the  universal 
deluge."3 

BURNAVILLE'S  MANOR. 

The  Manor  of  Levington  never  seems  to  have  passed  under  that  name, 
but  under  the  name  of  Burnaville's,  having  derived  its  name  from  William 
de  Burnaville,  who  held  of  Roger  Bigot  at  the  time  of  the  Domesday  Survey. 
In  1233  the  manor  seems  to  have  vested  for  a  time  in  Hubert  de  Burgh, 
but  in  1282  it  was  back  again  in  the  Burnaville  family  in  the  person  of  Sir 
Robert  de  Burnaville,  son  of  Geoffrey,  son  of  William,  son  of  Nicholas,  son  of 
William,  who  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  de  Burnaville.  In 
the  time  of  the  3rd  Edw.  it  was  vested  in  Richard  de  Burnaville,4  and  later 
in  Joan,  wife  of  John  Goldingham. 

'Dom.  ii.  341.  4  See  Manors  of  Baylhamand  Ringshall,  in 

1  Dom.  ii.  406.  Bosmere  and  Claydon  Hundred. 

» Suffolk  Traveller,  2nd  ed.  p.  77. 


LEVINGTON.  63 

In  1433  the  manor  was  vested  in  Richard  Steresacre  and  Hugh  Fastolf, 
and  subsequently  in  Sir  John  Fastolf,  who  died  in  1460.'  Sir  John  Paston, 
Knt.,  however,  was  seised  at  the  time  of  his  death  in  14667  and  later  we  find 
the  manor  in  Elizabeth  Brandon,  widow,  who  died  in  1497,  when  it  passed 
to  her  grandson  and  heir,  William  Brandon. 

The  manor  not  unlikely  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of 
Blowfield,  inTrimleySt.  Mary,  in  this  Hundred,  for  we  find  it  the  subject  of 
the  same  Chancery  suit  mentioned  in  the  account  of  that  lordship  between 
Richard,  son  of  Austin  Cavendish,  and  Sir  John  Wingfield,  Knt.,  Sir  William 
Brandon,  Knt.,  John  Sulyard,  and  Edward  Grymston.3  Certainly  in  1503 
Sir  John  Wingfield  by  deed  dated  3rd  Oct.  igth  Hen.  VII.,  conveyed  the 
manor  to  John  Yaxlee,  serjeant-at-law,  probably,  however,  as  mort- 
gagee,4 for  we  find  the  lordship  in  Sir  Humphrey  Wingfield,  Knt.,  of 
Brantham,5  who  died  seised  23rd  Oct.  I545,6  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Robert  Wingfield,  and  yet  find  a  statement  that  it  was  vested  in 
Anthony  Yaxlee,  who  died  in  1538,  when  the  manor  passed  to  William, 
son  of  Richard,  son  of  the  said  Anthony  Yaxlee. 

Richard  Smart,  who  died  25th  August,  1559,  seems  to  have  had  the 
manor,  which  then  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  William  Smart,  then  aged 
3O.7  In  1573  William  Smart  was  called  upon  to  show  title  to  the  manor  as 
parcel  of  the  lands  of  Sir  Humphrey  Wingfield.8 

In  1609  the  manor  was  acquired  by  Sir  Robert  Hitcham,  Knt.,  serjeant- 
at-law,  who  was  a  native  of  Levington,  and  educated  at  the  Free  Grammar 
School  of  Ipswich. 

An  account  of  him  will  be  found  under  the  manor  of  Framlingham, 
in  Loes  Hundred,  where  a  copy  of  his  will  may  be  seen.  Reyce,  in  his  account 
of  Suffolk  families,  speaking  of  Sir  Robert,  says  he  left  "  Robert  Butts, 
Gent.,  his  sisters  sonne,  heire  to  his  estate  in  Levington,  which  had  descended 
upon  him  from  his  ancestors.  William  Butts  is  now  living  this  year  1655." 
By  his  will,  dated  8th  August,  1636,  Sir  Robt.  Hitcham  devised  his  lordship 
of  "  Burvalls  "  to  his  nephew,  Robert  Butts  and  his  heirs,  subject  to  certain 
payments  to  the  testator's  sister,  to  whom  and  to  her  heirs  he  also  gave  a 
certain  farm  called  "  Watkins."  He  further  wills  that  there  be  presently 
built  after  his  decease  one  almshouse  at  Levington  for  six  female  persons 
of  the  poorest  and  impotent  of  Levington  and  Nacton,  the  same  to  be 
built  upon  his  tenement  near  the  street  there,  and  they  to  have  the  like 
allowance  in  all  things  as  the  poor  of  Framlingham  are  appointed  to  have  ; 
to  begin  first  with  Levington,  and  so  successively.9 

He  died  I5th  Aug.  1636,  and  was  buried  at  Framlingham.  Sir  Robert 
Hitcham's  nephew  seems  to  have  soon  parted  with  the  manor,  for  the  year 
after  his  uncle's  death  we  find  it  vested  in  Edmund  Grimston,  from  whom  it 
descended  to  his  son  and  heir,  Harbottle  Grimston. 

We  next  find  the  manor  vested  in  John  Goodrich,  of  Ipswich,  who  devised 
it  to  his  nephew,  William  Goodrich,  from  whom  it  is  said  to  have  come  to  John 
Goodrich,  who  was  lord  in  1803.  This,  however,  is  an  error,  for  William 
Goodrich  sold  in  1743  to  Admiral  Edward  Vernon..°  The  admiral  did  great 

'I.P.M.,  38-39  Hen.  VI.  48.     See  Broke  6I.P.M.,  i6th  Jan.  1545-6. 

Hall,  Nacton,  in  this  Hundred.  7I.P.M.,  2  Eliz.  pt.  i.  147. 

"I.P.M.,  6  Edw.  IV.  44.  8  Memoranda  Rolls,   15  Eliz.,  Mich  Rec. 
3E.C.P.,  Bundle  50,  212.  Rot.  26. 

4  Add.  Ch.  20223.  9  See  Framlingham  Manor,  in  Loes  Hundred. 

5  See  Brantham  Hall,  in  Samford  Hundred.  I0  See  Recovery,  20th  Oct.  1743. 


64  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

service  in  the  West  Indies  by  taking  Portobello,  Chagre,  &c.,  but  by  his 
disagreement  with  the  commander  of  the  land  forces  the  expedition 
against  Carthagena  failed.  He  commanded  in  the  Downs  in  1745,  and  the 
following  year  was  dismissed  the  service  by  his  Majesty's  command  for 
writing  two  pamphlets  by  which  the  Secretary  of  State  and  Secretary  of 
the  Admiralty's  letters  were  made  known.  He  died  2gth  Oct.  1757, 
aged  73,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  nephew  and  heir,  Francis  Vernon, 
Lord  Orwell,  afterwards  Earl  of  Shipbroke,  who,  dying  in  1783  without 
issue  it  vested  in  his  nephew  and  heir,  John  Vernon,  who  died  in  1818.' 

The  manor  was  later  acquired  by  Col.  George  Tomline,  and  like  the 
Manor  of  Bacton,  in  Hartismere  Hundred,  descended  to  and  is  now  vested  in 
Capt.  E.  G.  Pretyman,  D.L.,  of  Orwell  Park. 

There  is  a  Confirmation  of  Status,  &c.,  in  "  Bernevilles  "  Manor  in 
1459  amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.1 


'See  St.  Peter's  Manor,  Nacton,  in  this         'Add.  Ch.  10215. 
Hundred,  and  Risliangles  Manor,  in 
Hartismere  Hundred. 


MARTLESHAM.  65 

MARTLESHAM. 

MANOR  was  held  here  at  the  time  of  the  Domesday  Survey 
by  Ranulf,  brother  of  Ilger.  It  consisted  of  2  carucates  and 
a  half  of  land,  having  in  Saxon  times  10  villeins,  10  bordars, 
2  serfs,  and  2  ploughteams  in  demesne,  5  ploughteams 
belonging  to  the  men,  12  acres  of  meadow,  wood  sufficient 
for  16  hogs,  3  rouncies,  24  beasts,  40  hogs,  300  sheep,  16  goats, 
and  6  hives  of  bees,  valued  at  405.  By  the  time  of  the 
Survey  the  serfs  had  disappeared,  the  tenants'  ploughteams  were  reduced  by 
i,  there  was  a  mill,  and  the  rouncies  were  5,  the  beasts  20,  the  hogs  27, 
the  sheep  212,  and  the  hives  of  bees  12.  It  was  a  league  long  and  5 
quarentenes  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  6d.  In  the  time  of  the  Confessor  this 
manor  had  been  held  by  Eadwold. 

Ranulf  also  held  here  a  church  with  36  acres,  valued  at  35. ;  and  also 
Godric,  a  freeman,  having  16  acres,  i  bordar,  half  a  ploughteam,  and  an 
acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  2s.1 

MARTLESHAM  HALL  MANOR. 

In  1316  this  was  the  lordship  of  Richard  Brewse,  and  in  1328  had 
passed  to  Sir  John  de  Verdon,  who  removed  here  that  year  from  Brisingham 
in  Norfolk,  where  his  ancestors  had  resided  for  many  generations,  and 
where  his  father,  Thomas  de  Verdon,  had  died  about  1315.  John  seems 
to  have  been  a  person  of  great  hospitality,  from  the  inventory  of  the 
establishment  he  left  at  Brisingham  in  1328  to  treat  his  tenants,  &c., 
whenever  he  should  go  thither  to  reside."  In  1344  he  settled  the  manor 
on  his  son  Thomas.  Two  years  later  he  died,  and  was  succeeded  by 
his  grandson,  Sir  Thomas  de  Verdon  (the  son  having  apparently  died  in 
the  short  interval),  who,  dying  a  few  months  later,  without  issue,  the 
manor  passed  to  his  uncle,  Sir  John  de  Verdon,  2nd  son  of  the  above- . 
named  Sir  John  de  Verdon  and  Maud  his  wife.  This  last  Sir  John  de 
Verdon  in  1365  settled  the  manor  upon  Isabel,  his  2nd  wife,  daughter  and 
heir  of  Sir  Thomas  Visdelieu,  of  Shelfhanger,  co.  Norfolk,  Knt.,  and  upon  his 
(the  settler's)  only  daughter  by  this  marriage,  Isabel,  married  to  Sir  Imbert 
Noon,  of  Shelfhanger. 

Sir  John  de  Verdon  died  about  1391,  when  the  manor  passed  to  Sir 
Imbert  Noon  in  right  of  his  wife.  He  died  in  1412,  when  it  descended  to  his 
son  and  heir,  Sir  Edmund  Noon,  Knt.,  from  whom  it  went  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Sir  Henry  Noon,  who  died  in  1428,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Sir 
Henry  Noon.  This  last  lord  greatly  increased  his  fortune  by  his  valiant 
exploits,  being  a  constant  attendant  of  King  Hen.  V.  in  the  French  wars, 
where,  for  his  gallant  conduct  he  was  rewarded  by  the  King  with  a  grant  of 
the  castle  lands  and  lordship  of  Tonde,  in  Normandy.  He  died  in  1465, 
having  by  his  will  devised  the  manor  to  his  wife  Elizabeth  during  the 
minority  of  his  son  Henry,  and  then  to  him  and  his  heirs.  Henry  Noon,  the 
son,  inherited,  and  died  in  1487.  In  his  inquisition  p.m.  it  is  stated  that  the 
manor  was  worth  £20,  and  was  held  of  Roger  Pilkyngton,  as  of  the  Manor  of 
Bresyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  by  knight's  service.  Henry  Noon  was  found 
to  be  his  son  and  heir,  being  then  7  years  of  age.3 

In  1531  we  find  that  Sir  Thomas  Jermyn  paid  relief  for  the  manor.  His 
daughter  had  married  Francis  Noon,  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Noon.  Amongst 

1  Dom.  ii.  124.  3 1.P.M.,  3  Hen.  VII.  38. 

'See  Blomefield's  Norf.  i.  51. 


66  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  there  is  an  action 
i  <  ^pccting  this  manor  and  that  of  Newbourn  by  this  Francis  "  Noone"  against 
Roger  \\.invii.'  Francis  died  in  1574,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Thomas  Noon ;  and  amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  the  time 
of  Queen  Elizabeth  will  be  found  a  claim  by  this  Thomas  "  Noone  "  against 
WiUiam  Pilbrowe  to  recover  the  title  deeds  of  a  messuage  and  100  acres  in 
Martlesham,  which  descended  to  plaintiff  as  son  and  heir  to  Thomas 
"  Noone.1  Thomas  Noone  died  in  1606. 

A  little  later  the  manor  vested,  probably  by  purchase,  in  William 
Goodwin,  who  died  in  1639,  when  it  devolved  on  his  brother  and  heir, 
John  Goodwin,  on  whose  death  in  1644  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  William  Goodwin,  of  Hasketon,  who,  dying  in  1664,  was  succeeded 
by  his  son  and  heir,  John  Goodwin.  He  married  1st  Mary  Dawes,  widow, 
daughter  of  John  Glover,  clerk  and  minister  of  Shottisham,  andly  Hannah, 
daughter  and  coheir  of  Frederic  Scott,  of  Leverton,  and  3rdly  Elizabeth, 
daughter  and  coheir  of  John  Butcher,  of  Ipswich,  physician.  John  Goodwin 
died  the  nth  Dec.  1699,  in  his  6oth  year,3  when  the  manor  went  to  his 
widow,  Elizabeth,  who  presented  to  the  church  in  1724,  and  died  in  1736. 
She  was  succeeded  by  her  son  and  heir,  John  Goodwin,  who,  dying  in  1742, 
the  manor  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Goodwin,  who  dying  in  1758, 
the  manor  passed  to  his  daughter  Anne,  married  to  George  Doughty,  of 
Theberton,  who  presented  to  the  living  in  1787.  George  Doughty  died  in 
1798,  from  which  time  to  recently  the  manor  passed  in  the  same  course  as 
the  Manor  of  Theberton,  in  Blything  Hundred. 

The  manor  was  later  acquired  by  Colonel  George  Tomline,  and  is  now 
vested  like  the  Manor  of  Bacton,  in  Hartismere  Hundred,  in  Capt.  Ernest 
George  Pretyman,  D.L.,  of  Orwell  Park. 

Arms  :  NOON,  Or,  a  cross  engrailed,  Vert.  Of  VERDON  :  Sable,  a 
lion  rampant,  Argent. 

SCOTS  MANOR. 

This  manor  in  the  time  of  King  Hen.    VIII.  belonged  to    Edmund 

Bedingfield,  of  Oxburgh,  on  whose  death  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 

Thomas  Bedingfield,  who  died  seised  in  1590,  and  was  succeeded  by  his 

son  and  heir,  Sir  Henry  Bedingfield,  Knt.,  from  whom  it  passed  to  his  son 

.and  heir,  Sir  Henry  Bedingfield. 

HETHE'S  MANOR. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  Sir  Robert  Wingfield  in  the  time  of  King 
Hen.  VI.  He  died  in  1431,  when  it  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor 
of  Thorpe  Hall,  in  Hasketon,  in  this  Hundred,  to  the  time  of  Sir  Anthony 
Wingfield,  K.G.,  who  died  in  1552. 

In  an  inquisition  in  1482  this  manor  is  referred  to  as  the  "  tenement 
called  Hethes  in  Martlesham."4  In  1567  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  a 
moiety  of  the  manor,  John  Symond  against  Thomas  Gybbon  and  others.5 

1  C.P.  Ser.  ii.  B.  cxxxii.  83.  bet  3  crescents  Arg.    Of  the  SCOTT 
1  C.P.  ii.  256.  family  :    Arg.  3  Catherine  wheels, 
3  He   was    buried    in    the  chancel  of   the  Sab.  within  a  border  engrailed  Gu. 
church  of  Martlesham,  where  there  Of    the    BUTCHER    family :     Arg. 
is  a  monument    to  him  and   his  a  cross  engrailed  betw.  three  water- 
wives.    The  arms  as  given  on  the  bougets,  Gu. 
monument    are  :    Of  the  GLOVER  *  I.P.M.,  21  Edw.  IV.  59. 
family  :     Sab.  a  chevron   Ermine  *  Fine,  Trin.  9  Etiz. 


NACTON.  67 

N ACTON. 

MANOR  was  held  here  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  Good- 
mund  and  by  Hugh  de  Montfort  as  Domesday  tenant  in 
chief.  It  consisted  of  2  carucates  of  land,  6  villeins,  2  plough- 
teams  in  demesne,  3  ploughteams  belonging  to  the  men 
(which  by  the  time  of  the  Survey,  were  reduced  to  2),  wood 
sufficient  for  8  hogs,  2  acres  of  meadow,  a  mill,  4  rouncies, 
i  beast,  8  hogs,  23  sheep,  and  30  goats,  valued  at  705.,  both 
in  Saxon  times  and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey,  though  at  the  later  period 
there  were  but  2  ploughteams  belonging  to  the  tenants,  the  mill  had  dis- 
appeared, there  was  but  i  rouncy,  no  hogs  or  goats.  The  sheep  had  risen 
to  133. 

This  manor  was  a  league  and  a  half  in  length,  and  a  league  broad,  and 
paid  in  a  gelt  2d.' 

Robert  Malet  also  held  here,  under  the  head  "  Necchemara,"  28  acres, 
which  had  been  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  4  freemen  under  commenda- 
tion to  Godwin,  son  of  Alfer.  In  Saxon  times  there  were  2  ploughteams, 
but  these  had  disappeared  by  the  time  of  the  Survey.  The  value  was  2s., 
and  Robert  Malet  had  the  soc  and  sac.  The  Survey  says:  "Itis3quaren- 
tenes  long  and  z\  broad,  and  pays  ^\d.  in  gelt."  What  "  it  "  refers  to  we 
are  unable  to  say,  except  that,  though  linked  with  this  holding,  the  reference 
must  be  to  the  township  or  some  larger  estate.2 

Geoffrey  de  Magnaville  had  a  small  holding  of  2  freemen  under 
commendation  to  Halden,  with  20  acres,  half  a  ploughteam,  and  half  an 
acre  of  meadow.  The  value  of  this  holding  was  but  2s.3 

Hervey  of  Bourges  had  here  a  still  smaller  holding  in  demesne  of  3 
acres,  valued  at  6d.,  which  had  been  held  by  a  freeman  named  Ulfwin 
under  commendation  to  Ingulf,  the  house-earl.4 

BROKES  HALL  MANOR  al.  COWHAUGH  al.  Cow  HALL. 

The  lands  in  Nacton  became  divisible  into  four  separate  manors. 
Broke's  Hall  Manor  was  formed  partly  of  the  land  held  by  Goodmund 
of  the  Abbot  of  Ely  in  Saxon  times,  and  by  Hugh  de  Montfort  as  Domesday 
tenant  in  chief. 

In  the  time  of  Hen.  III.  the  manor  was  held  by  Richard  de  Holbroke, 
he  having  acquired  what  Andrew  Peverel  had  formerly  held  of  the  King  in 
chief.5  Richard  Holbroke  died  in  I29O,6  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  John  de  Holbroke,  and  on  his  death  went  to  his  widow  Alicia, 
and  an  extent  of  the  manor  will  be  found  in  1309  in  her  inquisition  p.m.7 
Subject  to  the  interest  of  Alicia,  the  widow  of  John  de  Holbroke,  the  manor 
vested  in  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John  Holbroke,  who  seems  to  have  died 
about  1316,  when  the  manor,  subject  to  his  widow's  interest,  passed  to  his 
son  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  Holbroke,  Knt.,  who  in  1336  with  Margaret,  his 
wife,  levied  a  fine  of  the  manor  against  William  le  Neweman,  parson  of 
Tattingstone  Church,  and  Nicholas  Bonde,8  and  in  1553  against  John 

'Dom.  ii.  406.  'See  Manor  of  Holbrook,  in  Samford  Hun- 
*Dom.  ii.  315.  dred.and  Manor  of  Colviles,  Rendle- 

3  Dom.  ii.  413.  sham,  in  Loes  Hundred. 

4Dom.  ii.  442.  1 1.P.M.,  3  Edw.  II.  51. 

3H.R.  ii.  197.  "Feet  of  Fines,  to  Edw.  III.  28. 


68  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Caperon,  parson  of  "  Tatington  "  Church,  and  Henry  White,  of  Tattings- 
ton.'  This  fine  included  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Bucklesham, 
Brendwenham,  and  Holton. 

Sir  Thomas  Holbroke  died  in  1360,"  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and 
heir,  Sir  John  Holbroke,  who  died  about  1375  or  1376.*  The  manor  then 
passed  to  Margery,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Sir  John  Holbroke,  who  had 
married  John,  son  of  Hugh  Fastolf/  and  in  1377  a  conveyance  was  made 
to  them  by  John  de  Lakinhethe,  who  was  no  doubt  a  trustee.  Margery 
Fastolf  died  nth  July,  1387,  when  the  lordship  vested  in  Sir  John  Fastolf, 
her  husband,  alone,  and  on  his  death  in  1406*  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Sir  Hugh  Fastolf,  Knt.  He  married  Matilda,  daughter  of  Sir  Constantine 
Clifton,  Knt.,  and  died  in  1417."  His  will  is  dated  1417,  and  it  was  proved 
in  1419,  when  a  I2th  part  vested  in  his  widow  Matilda  in  dower.  She  died 
in  1430  or  I437,7  and  then  the  manor  seems  to  have  passed  to  her  son  and  heir, 
Sir  John  Fastolf,  Knt.,  who  died  3ist  Jan.  1445,"  and  was  succeeded  by  his 
son  and  heir,  John  Fastolf,  who  died  in  i46o,9  when  the  manor  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Fastolf,  M.P.  for  Ipswich  in  1487,  and  from  him 
to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Fastolf,  also  M.P.  for  Ipswich  in  1494,  who  died 
8th  Dec.  1506,'°  when  the  manor  vested  in  his  son  and  heir,  George  Fastolf, 
who  married  Bridget,  daughter  of  Sir  Richard  Broke,  Knt.,  Chief  Baron  of 
the  Exchequer. 

George  Fastolf  parted  with  the  manor  in  1514,  and  a  fine  was  levied 
against  him  by  Thomas  Franke  and  others."  Franke  was  either  a  trustee 
for,  or  sold  the  manor  to  Sir  Richard  Broke,  Chief  Baron  of  the  Exchequer, 
4th  son  of  Thomas  Broke,  of  Leighton,  and  of  Joan,  daughter  and  heir  of 
John  (?  William)  Parke,  of  Copenhall,  Chester.  Thomas  Broke  was  a 
descendant  of  William  de  le  Brook,  son  of  Adam,  lord  of  Leighton,  prior 
to  the  time  of  Hen.  III.,  which  Adam  was  the  common  ancestor  of  the 
Brokes  of  Leighton,  of  Norton,"  and  of  Mere. 

Sir  Richard  Broke  was  Recorder  of  London,  and  represented  the  city 
in  several  Parliaments.'3  He  built  the  hall  known  as  Crows  Hall  in  1526, 
but  it  was  mostly  rebuilt  and  considerably  enlarged  by  Philip  Bowes 
Broke  in  1767.  Sir  Richard  was  a  sound  lawyer,  and  had  been  double 
reader  at  the  Middle  Temple,  and  Recorder  of  London,  which  city  he 
represented  in  Parliament  for  some  time.  Sir  Richard  Broke  married 
Anne,  daughter  of  -  -  Leeds,  who  died  nth  Nov.  1547,  and  was  buried  at 
Putney.  Sir  Richard  died  6th  May,  1529, '4  and  was  succeeded  in  this  lord- 
ship by  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Broke,  then  aged  34,' 5  who  married  Elizabeth, 
heir  of  the  Holgrave  family,  of  Sussex,  and  a  suit  in  the  Star  Chamber  will  be 
found  as  to  a  forcible  entry  and  assault  at  Nacton  by  this  Robert  Broke 
against  Edmund  Lecke  and  others.16  A  fine  was  levied  of  this  manor  by 
Sir  John  Jenny  and  others  against  Robert  Broke  in  1559,  no  doubt  on  the 
occasion  of  some  settlement.  The  fine  included  lands  in  Nacton,  Foxholes, 
Bucklesham,  and  Levington.'7 

'  Feet  of  Fines,  27  Edw.  III.  10.  8 1.P.M.,  26  Hen.  VI.  15. 

*  I.P.M.,  34  Edw.  III.  75.  938  and  39  Hen.  VI.  48. 

Jl.P.M.,  50  Edw.  III.  31.  "I.P.M.,  22  Hen.  VII.  57. 
«He  was  probably  the  3rd  son  of  John        "Fine,  Easter,  6  Hen.  VIII. 

Fastolf,  of  Caistor,  in  Norfolk.  '•  Created  Baronet  in  1662. 

sI.P.M.,  7  Hen.  IV.  34.  oSee  D.N.B.  vi.  388. 

•I.P.M.,  5  Hen.  V.  49.  "21  Hen.  VIII. 

?See    Kirkley    Manor,     Kessingland,  in        'sI.P.M.,  loth  Apr.  2  Edw.  VI.  60. 

Mutford  Hundred.  «6Star  C.P.,  Hen.  VIII.  vol.  6,  342-346. 

Jl.P.M.,  15  Hen.  VI.  37.  "Fine,  Mich.  I  Eliz. 


NACTON.  69 

Robert  Broke  died  in  1578,'  when  he  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and 
heir,  Richard  Broke.  He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  John  Jenney,  of 
Brightwell,  Knt.,  and  died  in  1613,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Robert  Broke,  who  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  William  Waters,  of 
Wimbledon,  Surrey.  He  was  High  Sheriff  for  Suffolk  in  1623,  and  on  his 
death  25th  March,  1626,  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Richard 
Broke,  who  married  Mary,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Pakington,  of  Westwood, 
co.  Worcester,  Bart.,  and  on  his  death  23rd  March,  1639-40,  went  to 
his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Robert  Broke,  Knt.,  who  was  created  a  Baronet  at  the 
Restoration,  2ist  May,  1661.  He  married  1st  Anne,  3rd  daughter  of  Sir 
Lionel  Tollemache  of  Bentley,  2nd  Bart.,  and  2ndly,  26th  May,  1685, 
Martha  Thomlinson,  widow,  and  dying  25th  Feb.,  1693-4,  without 
male  issue/  the  title  expired,  and  the  manor  passed  to  "his  nephew  and  son- 
in-law  (the  son  of  his  brother  William),  Robert  Broke,  who  married  ist 
his  cousin  Anne,  younger  daughter  and  coheir  of  the  deceased  baronet, 
Sir  Robert  Broke,  but  by  her  had  no  surviving  male  issue.  He  married 
2ndly  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Hewitt,  Bart,  of  Waresley,  in 
Huntingdonshire,  and  dying  in  June,  1714,  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and 
heir,  Philip  Broke,  who  married  ist  in  1732  Anne,  daughter  and  coheir  of 
Martin  Bowes,  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds ;  and  2ndly  Alice,  widow  of  Sir  John 
Barker,  Bart.,  and  dying  in  Sept.  1762,  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir, 
Philip  Bowes  Broke,  who  married  in  1771  Elizabeth,  daughter  and  eventual 
heir  of  the  Rev.  Charles  Beaumont  of  Witnesham,  and  dying  22nd  Aug. 
1801,  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Philip  Bowes- Vere-Broke,  of 
Broke  Hall,  who  was  created  a  baronet  2nd  Nov.  1813,  in  recognition  of 
his  gallant  victory  over  the  United  States  frigate,  the  "  Chesapeake." 
He  was  engaged  in  cruising  on  the  outbreak  of  the  American  war  in  1812, 
and  brought  his  crew  to  a  high  state  of  efficiency.  A  memoir  of  this  gallant 
officer  was  compiled  by  the  Rev.  J.  G.  Brighton,  chiefly  from  Journals  and 
Letters  in  the  possession  of  Rear-Admiral  Sir  George  Broke-Middleton,  and 
published  in  1866.  The  work  contains  portraits  and  many  full-page 
illustrations,  and  deals  largely  with  the  second  American  War,  1806-1815. 
Admiral  Sir  P.  B.  V.  Broke  married  in  1802  Sarah  Louisa,  daughter  of  Sir 
William  Fowle  Middleton,  Bart.,  of  Shrubland  Hall,  and  dying  2nd  Jan. 
1841,  was  succeeded  by  his  eldest  son,  Sir  Philip  Broke,  2nd  Bart.,  who  died 
unmarried  24th  Feb.  1855,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  brother,  Sir  George 
Nathaniel  Broke  Middleton,  Bart.,  3rd  Bart.,  having  assumed  in  1860  the 
surname  Middleton  after  that  of  Broke,  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the 
will  of  his  maternal  grandfather,  Sir  William  Fowle  Middleton,  ist  Bart., 
of  Shrubland  Hall. 

Sir  George  was  High  Sheriff  for  Suffolk  in  1864,  and  married  in  1853 
Albmia  Maria,  2nd  daughter  of  Thomas  Evans,  of  Lyminster,  Sussex,  and 
died  without  issue  i4th  Jan.  1887.  The  manor  is  now,  like  the  manor  of 
Lawshall,  in  Babergh  Hundred,  and  by  a  similar  course  of  descent,  vested 
in  Lord  de  Saumarez. 

A  list  of  the  portraits  at  Broke  Hall,  then  the  seat  of  P.  B.  Broke  in 
1797,  will  be  found  amongst  the  Additional  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum.3 

Arms  of  FASTOLF  :  Quarterly,  Arg.  and  Az.  on  a  bend  Gules,  three 
escallops  Arg. 

1  Will  24th  Oct.  1577,  proved  7th  May,  1582.    3  Add  6391. 

2  Will  r6th  Dec.  1693,  proved  3rd  May, 

1694. 


TO  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

MIOLOND  OR  SHOLLAND  HALL  OR  LAME  MANOR. 

This  manor  belonged  to  Richard  de  Holbroke  in  the  time  of  Hen.  III., 
and  seems  to  have  descended  in  the  same  line  of  devolution  as  the  Manor  of 
Broke  Hall  from  that  period.  It  is  specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition 
p.m.  of  John  de  Holbrook,  who  died  in  1376,'  and  that  of  Sir  Hugh  Fastolf 
in  1417,  then  held  by  him  of  the  Castle  of  Dover.*  It  is  mentioned 
also  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  John  Fastolf  in  1447  ;3  and  there  is  amongst 
the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum  a  suit  concerning  the  manor 
in  1456.'  The  manor  has  probably  long  since  become  extinct. 

PURDIES  OR  PUR  DEWS  MANOR. 

This  manor  was  held  in  the  time  of  William  the  Conqueror  by  Roger 
de  Poictou,  probably  as  part  of  Alnesbourne.  Not  unlikely  this  is  the  manor 
mentioned  as  Nacton  Manor  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Margaret  Sampson  in 
1476. 5  In  1580  John  Barker,  of  Ipswich,  held  the  same,  for  in  that  year  he 
conveyed  it  to  Richard  Broke,  of  Nacton,  who  died  in  1613,  and  from  that 
period  the  manor  has  descended  in  the  same  course  of  descent  as  the  Manor 
of  Broke  Hall. 

ST.  PETER'S  MANOR. 

This  was  vested  in  St.  Peter's,  Ipswich,  and  on  the  Dissolution  vested 
in  the  Crown,  when  it  was  granted  in  1527  to  Cardinal  Wolsey.  In  1633 
it  seems  to  have  been  vested  in  one  Bull,  who  must  have  sold  to  Sir  Richard 
Broke,  for  he  died  seised  in  1639,  from  which  period  it  has  descended  in 
the  same  course  of  descent  as  the  Manor  of  Broke  Hall,  being  now  vested  in 
Lord  Saumarez. 

Nacton  has  been  celebrated  for  seamen.  Here  Admiral  Vernon,  the 
captor  of  Portobello,  fixed  his  residence,  and  his  nephew,  to  whom  his 
property  passed,  rebuilt  the  Admiral's  house  and  surrounded  it  with  exten- 
sive and  beautiful  grounds  called  Orwell  Park — from  the  noble  river  which 
bounds  them  on  the  south.  This  gentleman  was  created  a  Peer  of  Ireland 
in  1776  by  the  title  of  Viscount  Orwell,  and  in  the  following  year  was  raised 
to  the  dignity  of  Earl  of  Shipbroke  ;  but  on  his  death  in  1783  both  these 
titles  became  extinct,  and  his  estates  passed  to  his  nephew,  John  Vernon, 
whose  heir  carried  them  in  marriage  to  Sir  Robert  Harland,  Bart.,  whose 
father  was  created  a  baronet  in  1771  by  the  title  of  Sir  Robert  Harland,  of 
Sproughton,  and  sailed  in  the  same  year  as  commander-in-chief  of  his 
Majesty's  fleet  to  the  East  Indies,  being  second  in  command  to  Admiral 
Keppel  in  1778,  and  one  of  the  Lords  of  the  Admiralty  in  1782,  but  died  in 
1784.  Sir  Robert  Harland,  who  married  the  Vernon  heiress,  died  in  1848, 
when  the  baronetcy  became  extinct,  and  the  estate  was  sold  to  George 
Tomline,  M.P.,  from  whom  the  present  owner,  Capt.  Ernest  George 
Pretyman,  D.L.,  has  inherited. 

The  mansion  of  Orwell  Park  was  greatly  enlarged  by  Colonel  Tomline 
about  the  year  1873,  and  a  very  fine  observatory  has  been  attached  to  it. 
Chimes  of  16  bells  were  restored  in  1886,  the  bells  being  in  a  tower  about 
50  feet  from  the  house  in  a  south-easterly  direction.  The  park  in  which  the 
mansion  stands  extends  to  about  200  acres,  and  is  bordered  by  the  River 
Orwell. 

'I.P.M.,  50  Edw.  III.  31.  'Add.  Ch.  17244. 

fI.P.M.,  5  Hen.  V.  49.  'I.P.M.,  16  Edw.  IV.  48. 

'I.P.M.,  26  Hen.  VI.  15. 


NACTON.  71 

ALNESBOURN  MANOR. 

A  manor  was  held  here  in  Edward  the  Confessor's  time  by  Saint  Andrew, 
consisting  of  i  camcate  of  land.  There  were  4  bordars,  i  ploughteam  in 
demesne,  6  acres  of  meadow,  and  60  sheep,  and  it  was  then  valued  at  305., 
which  at  the  time  of  the  Norman  Survey  had  come  down  to  IDS.,  and  was 
held  by  Albert  of  Roger  de  Poictou  as  tenant  in  chief.'  It  was  6  quarentenes 
long  and  2  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  $d.  Robert  de  Merton  claimed  view  of 
frankpledge  in  the  manor  in  1275,  and  from  a  feoffment  made  in  1444  the 
name  Merton  seems  up  to  that  time  to  have  attached  itself  to  the  manor. 
The  feoffment  was  of  a  moiety.2 

The  manor,  however,  formed  part  of  the  endowment  of  the  priory  of 
Alnesbourn,  which  is  situated  near  the  river  between  St.  Clement's  in 
Ipswich,  and  Nacton  in  the  ancient  parish  of  Hallowtree,nowextraparochial. 
It  was  a  small  house  of  Augustine  or  Black  Canons,  being  a  cell  to  Wood- 
bridge.  The  revenues  of  this  house  were  confirmed  to  the  prior  and 
canons  about  1280,  and  we  find  Robert  de  Belsted  and  Robert  de  Twait 
occurring  as  benefactors  in  1300.  In  1315  the  prior  of  Alnesbourn  was 
returned  as  lord,  and  the  manor  remained  in  the  priory  till  1424,  when  John, 
Duke  of  Norfolk,  and  others,  purchased  it  of  John  Tumour,  prior  of  St. 
Mary  at  Alnesbourn,  and  the  convent  for  St.  Giles  Hospital  in  Norwich; 
but  in  1452,  on  the  request  of  Wm.  Turnour,  then  prior  of  Alnesbourn, 
the  priory  was  united  to  and  became  a  cell  to  Woodbridge  Priory.  In 
1530  it  was  let  by  Thomas  Cooke,  prior  of  Woodbridge,  to  Thomas  Alvard, 
or  Alverde,  of  Ipswich,  by  the  style  of  "  Manerium  de  Alvesborne  et  Ponds." 
At  the  Dissolution  the  priory  was  granted  in  1541,  as  part  of  the  posses- 
sions of  Woodbridge  Priory,  to  Sir  John  Wingfield  and  Dorothy  his  wife, 
and  in  the  same  year  they  were  found  to  hold  the  manor  in  tail  by  the 
service  of  a  knight's  fee  and  £4.  45. 10^.  rent. 

It  is  stated,  however,  that  the  Manor  of  Alnesbourn  was  granted  to 
Thomas  Alverd,  of  Ipswich,  and  it  is  clear  that  it  was  sold  by  Robert  Barn- 
borough,  executor  of  the  will  of  this  Thomas  Alverd  to  Humphrey  Seckford, 
of  Ipswich.  Possibly  this  was  only  the  leasehold  interest,  acquired  as  we 
have  stated,  in  1530.  Humphrey  Seckford  died  in  1575,  and  was  succeeded 
by  Thomas  Seckford,  2nd  son  of  Thomas  Seckford  and  Margaret  his  wife. 

He  was  one  of  the  masters  of  the  Court  of  Request  and  surveyor  of  the 
Court  of  Wards  and  Liveries,  the  munificent  founder  of  the  almhouses  in 
Woodbridge.  He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Thomas  Harlow,  and 
widow  of  Sir  Martin  Bowes,  of  London,  Knt.  She  died  igth  Dec.  1587, 
and  he  died  without  issue  I5th  Jan.  1587-8,  aged  72,  being  buried  in  a  vault 
which  he  had  erected  for  himself  in  a  chapel  on  the  north  side  of  the  chancel 
of  Woodbridge  Church. 

Francis  Seckford,  his  elder  brother,  died  before  his  father,  leaving  a 
son,  Charles  Seckford,  who  succeeded  both  his  grandfather  and  his  uncle, 
and  married  Mary,  daughter  of  Thomas  Steyning,  of  Earl  Soham,  by 
Frances,  his  wife,  Countess  Dowager  of  Surrey,  daughter  of  John  Vere, 
Earl  of  Oxford.  He  represented  the  borough  of  Aldeburgh  in  Parliament 
in  the  I4th  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  and  died  in  1591,  aged  31,  being 
buried  at  Woodbridge,  as  was  his  widow  in  1596. 

Davy  names  Henry  Seckford  as  the  next  lord,  and  states  that  he  sold  ; 
but  as  the  sale  was  not  made  according  to  Davy  till  1630,  this  could  hardly 

1  Dom.  ii.  347.  *  Harl.  85  F.  34. 


72  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

have  been  the  case,  as  Henry  Seckford  died  in  1626,  and  was  buried  at  Wood- 
bridge.  No  doubt  the  manor  devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of 
Seckford  Hall,  Great  Bealings,  in  Carlford  Hundred,  until  the  purchase  by 
Sir  Richard  Broke,  of  Nacton.  He  apparently  acquired  the  manor  about 
1630,  and  married  Mary,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Pakington,  Bart.  From 
this  time  the  manor  has  devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  main  manor 
of  Broke  Hall,  and  is  now  vested  in  Lord  De  Saumarez. 

An  "  Ayllesbourne  "  Manor,  or  rather  a  moiety  of  it,  was  included  in  a 
fine  levied  in  1558  by  Sir  Edward  Waldegrave  and  others  against  William 
Wyndsore.1 


1  Fine,  Hil.  5  Mary  I. 


NEWBOURN.  73 

NEW  BOURN. 

HERE  was  no  manor  in  this  place  in  Saxon  times.  The 
principal  holding  was  that  of  Ranulf,  brother  of  Ilger, 
who  held  i  carucate  and  40  acres,  which  in  the  Confessor's 
time  had  been  held  by  16  freemen  under  commendation  to 
Brictmar  and  Quengeva,  and  two  under  half  commenda- 
tion to  the  Abbot  of  Ely.  Under  them  were  14  bordars.  In 
Saxon  times  there  were  attached  to  the  holdings  4  plough- 
teams  and  ij  acres  of  meadow,  and  the  valuation  was  405.  By  the  time 
of  the  Survey  the  value  was  reduced  by  half,  and  the  ploughteams  had 
come  down  to  3. 

There  was  also  a  church  with  12  acres,  valued  at  i6d.  "And  it  was 
Norman's  witness  the  Hundred."  So  the  Survey  says,  which  adds :  "  It  is 
6  quarentenes  long  and  5  broad,  and  pays  in  a  gelt  7%d.'" 

The  only  two  other  holdings  here  were  one  of  Albert  the  Burnt,  holding 
of  Roger  de  Poictou,  consisting  of  15  acres,  valued  at  i6d.,  formerly  held  by 
a  freeman  under  Gurth  ;  the  other  of  3  freemen  held  by  the  Abbot  of  Bury.2 

NEWBOURN-CUM-MARTLESHAM  MANOR. 

This  was  the  manor  of  Ralph,  brother  of  Ilger,  as  Domesday  tenant, 
and  in  the  time  of  Edw.  II.  was  the  lordship  of  Richard  de  Brewes  or  Brewse. 
It  seems  to  have  passed  in  the  same  reign  to  Thomas  de  Verdon,  who  died 
in  1315,  and  was  succeeded  by  Sir  John  de  Verdon,  who  was  followed  by  his 
grandson,  Thomas  de  Verdon,  who  died  without  issue  in  1346. 

Thomas  was  succeeded  by  his  uncle,  Sir  John  de  Verdon,  Knt.  The 
manor  was  included  in  the  settlement  made  by  Sir  John  de  Verdon  in  1365, 
upon  Isabel,  his  2nd  wife,  eldest  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Visdelieu,of  Shotley, 
in  Samford  Hundred,  Knt.,  as  narrated  in  the  account  of  Martlesham  Hall 
Manor,  in  this  Hundred,  and  the  descent  of  this  manor  to  the  time  of  Henry 
Noon,  son  of  Sir  Henry  who  died  in  1587,  is  the  same  as  of  that  manor. 

The  manor  then  passed  to  Roger  Warren  or  Warrener,  of  Newbourn,  son 
and  heir  of  John  Warren,  and  Dorothy  his  wife,  daughter  of  Robert 
Forthe,  of  Hadleigh.  Roger  Warren  married  ist  Barbara,  daughter  of 
John  —  of  Wantisden,  and  had  issue  Robert— not  Roger — son  and  heir,  as 
stated  in  the  Visitation  of  1561.  He  married  2ndly  Mary,  daughter  of  Sir 
John  Cornwallis,  of  Brome,  Knt.,  and  had  a  son,  Thomas.  Robert  Warren, 
the  eldest  son,  was  of  Hemley,  and  married  Mary,  daughter  of  William 
Cavendish,  of  Trimley  St.  Martin.  Robert  died  in  the  lifetime  of  his 
father,  and  was  buried  at  Newbourn,  6th  Oct.  1580. 

A  fine  was  in  1585  levied  of  this  manor  by  Leonard  Caston  against 
the  said  Roger  Warren.3  Roger  Warren  died  in  1588  unmarried,  when  the 
manor  passed  to  his  grandson  Roger  Warren,  and  on  his  death  shortly 
afterwards,  unmarried,  the  manor  passed  to  his  father's  half-brother, 
Thomas  Warren,  of  Trimley  St.  Martin. 

A  fine  was  levied  against  this  Thomas  Warren  and  others  in  1589  by 
George  Tottie  and  others,4  and  in  1601  by  Thomas  Glascock  and  others 
against  the  said  Thomas  Warren  and  others.5  The  manor,  however, 
had  been  apparently  included  in  a  settlement  dated  24th  Sept.  36  Eliz. 
[1594]  made  by  Charles  Cornwallis  on  the  marriage  of  his  son  William  with 

•Dom.  ii.  4246.  'Fine,  Mich.  31-32  Eliz. 

*Dom.  ii.  347.  5Fine,  Trin.  43  Eliz. 

3  Fine,  Trin.  27  Eliz. 

K 


74  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Katharine,  daughter  of  Sir  Philipp  Parker,  of  Erwarton,'  and  we  meet  with 
a  fine  levied  in  1601  by  Eleazer  Duncon  and  others  against  Charles  Corn- 
waleys  and  others/  Finally,  by  deed  dated  23rd  May,  1612,  Thomas 
Warrener,  described  as  of  London,  at  the  request  of  Sir  Charles  Cornwaleys, 
released  the  manor  to  William  Cock.3 

A  little  later  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  Edmund  Purpet,4  son  and  heir 
of  John  Purpet  by  Anne  Rolf  his  wife,  and  he  (Edmund)  sold  the  manor  in 
1622  to  Sir  William  Hewytt  and  his  son,  Sir  Thomas  Hewytt,  knights. 

Sir  William  Hewytt  or  Hewitt,  of  Brightwell,  was  the  son  of  Solomon 
Hewitt,  son  of  William  Hewitt,  who  died  in  1599,  ne  being  the  2nd  son 
of  Robert  Hewitt,  of  Kellamarsh.  Sir  William  married  Elizabeth,  daughter 
of  Richard  Wiseman,  and  died  in  London  in  1637.  His  son,  Sir  Thomas, 
was  created  a  baronet  igth  July,  1660,  and  married  ist  Frances,  daughter  of 
Sir  John  Hobart,  Bart.,  of  Blickling,  co.  Norfolk,  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  the 
Common  Pleas,  and  2ndly  Margaret,  eldest  daughter  of  Sir  William  Lytton, 
Knt.,  and  widow  of  Thomas  Hillersdon.  However,  in  the  lifetime  of 
Sir  William  and  Sir  Thomas,  or  shortly  after  the  death  of  the  former, 
the  manor  must  have  been  parted  with,  for  Sir  Richard  Broke  died  seised  of 
it  in  1639,  when  it  passed  to  his  widow,  Dame  Mary,  who,  with  Sir  Robert 
Broke,  in  1643  sold  it  to  Nicholas  Harlestone,  a  merchant. 

In  1809  the  manor  was  vested  in  John  Vernon,  on  whose  death  in  1818 
it  passed  to  his  sister  and  heir  Arethusa,  wife  of  Sir  Robert  Harland,  Bart.5 
In  1855  Newbourn  seems  to  have  been  vested  in  Sir  Joshua  Rowley,  and 
the  same  has  descended  like  the  Manor  of  Nayland,  in  Babergh  Hundred, 
and  is  now  vested  in  Sir  Joshua  Thellusson  Rowley,  Bart. 

Arms  of  WARREN  :  Arg.  a  fesse  chequy  Or  and  Azure  betw.  3  talbots 
passant  Sable.  Of  HEWITT  :  Gu.  a  chevron  engrailed  betw.  3  owls  Arg. 

HASPLEY  WITH  NEWBOURN  MANOR. 

The  land  of  this  manor  is  entered  separately  in  the  Domesday  Survey 
under  the  lands  of  Ranulf,  brother  of  Ilger.  It  was  6  quarentenes  long,  and 
3  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  $d.  There  was  no  actual  manor  here  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey,  but  the  holding  consisted  of  a  carucate  of  land,  5  bordars, 
3  ploughteams,  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  205.  It  had  in  the  time 
of  the  Confessor  been  valued  at  305.,  and  been  held  by  5  freemen  under  com- 
mendation to  Brictmar,  but  one  was  half  Edric's  man  and  half  Norman's 
man,  and  2  were  under  commendation  to  Quengeva.  There  were  also  here 
7  acres  included  in  the  valuation  of  Almeley.6 

This  manor  passed  in  early  times  to  the  Priory  of  Woodbridge.  On  the 
Dissolution  it  vested  in  the  Crown,  and  was  granted  by  Hen.  VIII.  to 
Cardinal  Wolsey,  and  on  his  attainder  granted  by  the  King  in  fee  to  Thomas, 
Duke  of  Norfolk,  in  1530. 7  It  seems,  however,  to  have  come  back  to  the 
Crown,  for  in  1541  it  was  granted  to  Sir  John  Wingfield  and  Dorothy  his 
wife. 

In  1564  the  manor  was  acquired  by  Thomas  Seckford,  and  shortly 
afterwards  passed  to  Roger  Warren,  who  died  seised  of  it  in  1588,  after 
which  it  passed  through  the  Warren  family  in  the  same  way  as  the  Manor  of 

'Add.  Ch.  10236.  sSee  St.  Peter's  Manor,  Nacton,  in  this 
"Fine,  Mich.  43-44  Eliz.  Hundred. 

3  Add.  Ch.  10244.  «Dom.  ii.  4246,  425. 

4  As  to  the  Purpet  family,  see  E.A.  (N.S.),  ?S.P.  22  Hen.  VIII.  220  (ir). 

i.  311, 328,and\Valdringneld  Manor, 
in  this  Hundred. 


NEWBOURN.  75 

Newbourn.  In  1719  it  was  probably  vested  in  Anne  Western,  widow, 
who  this  year  presented  to  the  living.  She  was  the  daughter  of  Robert 
Callis,  and  widow  of  Thomas  Western,  son  of  Thomas  Western,  of  Rivenhall 
Place,  co.  Essex,  who  had  died  in  1765.  Her  son  and  heir,  Charles  Western, 
married  Frances  Shirley,  Daughter  and  heir  of  William  Bollan  and  Frances 
his  wife,  sister  of  Sir  Thomas  Shirley,  Bart.,  and  died  24th  July,  1771,  in 
the  lifetime  of  his  mother.  Anne  Western  died  in  January,  1776,  when  the 
manor  passed  to  her  grandson,  Charles  Callis  Western,  M.P.  for  Essex, 
created  Baron  Western  of  Rivenhall,  28th  Jan.  1833.  Possibly  he  may 
have  had  the  manor  in  his  grandmother's  lifetime,  for  we  find  that  in  1775 
he  presented  to  the  living.  The  manor  during  his  lifetime  seems  to  have  gone 
to  one  Caryll,  and  subsequently  to  one  Drury,  of  Clayton.  Davy  says  in 
1825  Sir  William  Rowley,  Bart.,  presented,  and  also  in  1832,  but  was  not 
lord.  The  manor  seems  to  have  been  vested  about  this  time  in  one  Cross,  of 
Henley,  from  whom  a  Mr.  Porter  purchased. 

Court  Rolls  for  this  manor,  36  Hen.  VIII.  I3th  July  ;  37  Hen.  VIII. 
i6th  Oct.;  37  Hen.  VIII.;  37  Hen.  VIII.  ;  24,  25,  26,  31,  32,  and  34  Hen. 
VIII. ;  and  i  and  2  Edw.  VI.,  are  in  existence  and  in  private  hands. 


76  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

OTLEY. 

HERE  were  two  manors  held  here  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor. 
One  belonged  to  Lustwin,  under  commendation  to  Edric, 
and  consisted  of  I  carucate  of  land,  i  villein,  and  4  bordars, 
i  ploughteam  (and  by  the  time  of  the  Survey  also  half  a 
team)  in  demesne  and  i  belonging  to  the  men,  2  acres  of 
meadow,  and  wood  sufficient  to  support  5  hogs,  valued  at 
2os.  By  the  time  of  the  Survey,  the  value  had  risen  to 

30$.,  and  the  manor  was  held  by  Humphrey  the  Chamberlain  as  Domesday 

tenant  in  chief. 

Humphrey  also  held  here  a  carucate  and  a  half,  formerly  held  by 
Lefleda,  a  freewoman  under  commendation  to  Edric,  the  predecessor  of  Robert 
Malet.  There  were  3  villeins,  10  bordars,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne,  3 
belonging  to  the  tenants,  wood  sufficient  for  the  support  of  20  hogs,  2  acres 
of  meadow,  2  rouncies,  5  beasts,  40  hogs,  100  sheep,  25  goats,  and  6  hives  of 
bees,  valued  at  zoos.  By  the  time  of  the  Survey  the  value  had  risen  to  £6, 
the  ploughteams  in  demesne,  however,  were  only  one  and  a  half,  and  of 
those  belonging  to  the  men  but  2,  and  the  beasts  had  gone.  Of  this  William 
Malet  was  seised  on  the  day  of  his  death,  and  afterwards  Robert,  as  the 
Hundred  witnessed. 

Humphrey  the  Chamberlain  also  held  here  69  acres,  which  had  been 
held  by  16  and  a  half  freemen  under  commendation  to  Lefleda,  with  3 
ploughteams,  formerly  valued  at  2os.,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  at 
305.  Also  a  church  with  20  acres,  valued  at  45.  Of  all  this  William 
Malet  was  seised  at  the  time  of  his  death,  and  Robert  afterwards,  the  King 
and  the  Earl  having  the  soc. 

Humphrey  also  held  here  30  acres,  i  villein,  and  4  bordars,  and  I 
ploughteam  (increased  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  to  one  and  a  half),  I  acre 
of  meadow,  and  wood  for  10  hogs,  valued  formerly  at  8s.,  but  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey  at  IDS.  This  was  held  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  by  Brith 
wold,  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Queen  Edith.  At  the  time  of  the 
Survey  Hamond  held  this  of  Humphrey. 

Humphrey's  only  other  holding  here  was  of  27  acres,  formerly  having 
two  ploughteams,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  I  only,  valued  at  IDS. 
This  had  in  Saxon  times  been  held  by  6  freemen  under  commendation  to 
Brithwold.' 

The  second  manor  was  held  by  Andrew  of  Roger  de  Poictou,  the  Domes- 
day tenant  in  chief,  and  was  the  land  which  Edwold,  a  freeman  under 
Harold  and  his  wife  under  commendation  to  Edric,  had  held  in  the  Confes- 
sor's time.  It  consisted  of  2  carucates  of  land,  3  villeins,  10  bordars,  3 
serfs,  3  ploughteams  in  demesne  and  5  belonging  to  the  tenants,  wood 
sufficient  for  4  hogs,  3  acres  of  meadow,  3  rouncies,  12  beasts,  30  hogs,  and 
60  sheep,  valued  at  loos.  By  the  time  of  the  Survey  the  value  had  fallen 
to  45.,  and  there  were  various  alterations  in  the  details  of  the  appurtenances 
to  the  manor.  The  serfs  were  but  i,  the  ploughteams  in  demesne  I, 
though  more  might  have  been  made  up,  and  3  ploughteams  only  belonging 
to  the  tenants  ;  the  rouncies  had  disappeared,  and  the  beasts  had  come 
down  to  i,  the  hogs  to  10,  while  all  the  sheep  had  gone.  The  manor  was 
10  quare;itenes  long  and  6  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt 

'Dom.  ii.  433.  *Dom.  ii.  347. 


OTLEY. 


77 


Another  holding,  consisting  of  4  acres  (which  belonged  to  Easton  and 
to  its  valuation)  was  held  by  Milo  de  Belefol  of  Roger  de  Rheims.1 

The  only  other  holding  was  that  of  Walter  the  Deacon,  who  had  6  acres 
in  demesne  valued  at  I2d.2 

OVERHALL  MANOR  IN  OTLEY. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  Humphrey  the  Chamberlain  in  the  time  of 
William  the  Conqueror,  and  in  the  time  of  Edw.  I.  is  said  to  have  been  the 
lordship  of  John  de  Paynell.  This,  however,  is  a  delusion.  For  some 
centuries  Overhallwas  held  of  the  Earls  of  Clare  and  Gloucester,  and  Nether- 
hall  of  the  Honor  of  Lancaster. 

Overhall  Manor  was  held  by  Henry  de  Hastings  prior  to  1250.  He 
was  the  son  of  William  Hastings, steward  to  Hen.  II., and  Margaret  his  wife, 
daughter  of  Roger  Bigot,  Earl  of  Norfolk,  which  William  was  son  of  William 
by  Maud,  daughter  of  Thurston  Banaster,  and  widow  of  William  Cumin, 


OTLEY  HALL. 

which  William  was  son  of  Hugh,  son  of  Walter,  son  of  Robert  de  Hastings, 
lord  of  Fillougley,  co.  Warwick,  living  in  1066.  Henry  de  Hastings  married 
Ada,  fourth  daughter  of  David,  Earl  of  Huntingdon,  and  of  Maud,  his  wife, 
daughter  of  Hugh,  and  one  of  the  sisters  and  coheirs  of  Ranulph,  Earl  of 
Chester,  by  whom  he  had  issue,  Henry,  his  successor,  and  two  daughters, 
Margaret  and  Hillaria,who  at  the  time  of  his  decease  were  in  the  nunnery  of 
Alneston,  and  their  tuition  was  then  committed  to  William  de  Cantilupe. 
This  Henry  de  Hastings  attended  the  King  into  France  in  the  26th  year  of 
his  reign,  and  was  taken  prisoner  at  the  defeat  at  Zante,  but  was  soon  after- 
wards released.  He  also  a  few  years  later  accompanied  Richard,  Earl  of 
Cornwall,  into  France,  and  died  in  1250,  leaving  Henry  de  Hastings,  his 
eldest  son,  a  minor.  His  wardship  was  granted  to  Guy  de  Lusignan,  King 
Hen.  IH.'s  half  brother  (who  afterwards  passed  it  over  to  William  de  Canti- 
lupe, the  King  ratifying  the  same);  but  from  the  Fine  Rolls  we  learn  that 
the  King  committed  this  manor  to  Stephen  de  Spineto  and  Jusbto  Guidon 

'  Dom.  ii.  4236.  2Dom.  ii.  4276. 


78  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

during  the  heir's  minority.'  This  Henry  in  1260  had  a  summons  to  be  in 
Shr.  \\sbury  with  horse  and  arms  to  march  against  the  Welsh,  and  lh< 
following  year  a  similar  summons  to  be  in  London.  Shortly  afterwards  he 
uas  in  anus  with  Simon  de  Montfort,  Earl  of  Leicester,  and  others  against 
the  King,  and  with  those  excommunicated  by  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury. 
He  distinguished  himself  amongst  the  Barons  at  the  Battle  of  Lewes,  when 
tin-  King  was  made  prisoner,  receiving  the  honour  of  knighthood  at  the 
hands  of  Montfort,  and  was  made  governor  of  Scarborough  and  Winchester 
castles.  In  1265  he  was  constituted  governor  of  Kenilworth  Castle, which, 
after  the  defeat  at  Evesham,  he  defended  against  the  King's  victorious 
forces  for  the  space  of  six  months,  making  many  bold  sallies.  At  length, 
however,  finding  no  hope  of  relief,  he  was  constrained  to  surrender,  but  upon 
the  most  honourable  terms,  marching  off  with  bag  and  baggage.  He  was, 
notwithstanding,  excepted  from  the  benefit  of  the  Dictum  of  Kenilworth, 
being  offered  a  seventeen  years'  imprisonment  or  submission  to  the  King's 
mercy.  About  two  years  later,  however,  on  the  mediation  of  Prince  Edward, 
he  was  admitted  to  the  full  benefit  of  the  decree,  and  dying  in  1268,'  left 
by  his  wife  Joan,  daughter  of  William  de  Cantilupe,  sister  and  eventually 
coheir  of  George  de  Cantilupe,  Baron  of  Bergavenny,  two  sons  and  three 
daughters— John,  Edmund,  Andra,  Lora,  and  Joane.  The  manor  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  John  Hastings,  2nd  Baron  and  Lord  Bergavenny,  in  right 
of  his  mother.  He  was  constituted  Seneschal  of  Aquitaine,  and  in  1290 
was  one  of  the  competitors  for  the  Crown  of  Scotland  in  right  of  his  descent 
from  Ada,  daughter  of  David,  Earl  of  Huntingdon,  brother  to  Malcolm 
and  William,  Kings  of  Scotland.  He  had  also  summons  to  Parliament 
among  the  barons  of  the  realm  from  1295  to  the  time  of  his  death  in  1312-3. 
He  was  interred  at  the  Grey  Friars,  in  Coventry.  By  Isabel,  his  1st  wife, 
daughter  of  William  and  sister  and  coheir  of  Aylmer  de  Valence,  Earl  of 
Pembroke, he  had  issue  John, his  son  and  heir,  William  and  Henry,  who  died 
without  issue,  and  three  daughters,  Joane.  Margaret,  and  Elizabeth,  who 
married  Roger,  Lord  Grey  of  Ruthyn.  Lord  Hastings  married  2ndly  Isabel. 
5th  daughter  of  Hugh  Despenser,  Earl  of  Winchester,  and  had  two  other 
sons,  Sir  Hugh  Hastings,  of  Gressenhall  and  Fenwick,  in  Norfolk,  in  right 
of  his  wife,  Margaret,  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  Richard  Foliot,  Knt.,  whose 
male  line  terminated  about  the  reign  of  Elizabeth  in  Sir  Francis  Hastings, 
of  Stusthope,  and  Thomas. 

On  the  death  of  John,  2nd  Baron,  gth  March,  I3I2-I3,3  the  manor  passed 
to  the  elder  son  of  his  first  marriage,  John,  Lord  Hastings,  3rd  Baron.  He 
was  engaged  in  the  wars  in  Scotland  from  1310  to  1318,  and  joined  in  the 
insurrection  of  the  lords  when  they  banished  the  two  Despensers,  but 
deserting  the  barons  later  joined  the  King  at  Cirencester.  He  married 
Juliana,  granddaughter  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Leybourne,  Baron 
Leybourne,  and  dying  in  1325*  was  succeeded  by  his  only  son,  Laurence, 
4th  Baron,  but  the  manor  passed  to  the  widow  Juliana,  and  there  is 
an  order  on  the  Close  Rolls  the  following  year  to  deliver  the  same  to 
Thomas  le  Blount  and  Juliana  his  wife,  late  wife  of  John  de  Hastyngs 
in  dower.5  The  advowson  was,  with  the  manor,  assigned  in  dower, 
for  we  learn  from  the  Patent  Rolls  the  King  presented  in  1328  one 
Ralph  Chyvaler  by  reason  of  the  heir  of  John  de  Hastyngs,  tenant 

1  Fine,  Rolls,  35  Hen.  III.  251,  17.  4  Extent  of  Honor  of  Gloucester  ;    I.P.M., 
M.P.M.,  52  Hen.  III.  63.    He  was  buried  18  Edw.  II.  83. 

in  the  Grey  Friars,  in  Coventry.  *  Close  Rolls,  19  Edw.  II.  29. 
'I.P.M.,  6  Edw.  II.  56. 


OTLEY.  79 

in  chief,  being  a  minor,  but  immediately  afterwards  discovering  that  this 
was  the  case,  and  that  the  advowson  had  been  assigned  to  Thomas  le  Blount 
and  Juliana  his  wife,  revoked  the  presentation  he  had  made,  yet  strangely 
the  entry  on  the  Rolls  says  of  the  revocation  (not  of  Ralph  Chyvaler  but) 
of  John  Sprott.1 

The  widow  appears  very  rapidly  to  have  found  a  new  consort,  and  she 
subsequently  remarried  a  third  time,  William  de  Clinton,  Earl  of  Huntingdon. 
He  died  in  1354,  and  the  manor  is  referred  to  in  his  inquisition  p.m.2  as  it  had 
been  in  that  of  his  son  John,  who  died  three  years  anterior/  From  this 
time  to  the  death  of  John,  3rd  Earl  of  Pembroke,  the  manor  devolved 
as  the  Manor  of  Reydon,  in  Blything  Hundred. 

On  the  premature  death  of  John,  3rd  Earl  of  Pembroke,  without  issue, 
the  earldom  of  Pembroke  determined,  and  the  baronies  vested  in  him 
devolved  upon  Reginald,  Lord  Grey  de  Ruthyn,  as  descended  lineally  from 
Elizabeth,  sister  to  John  de  Hastings,  father  of  Laurence,  ist  Earl  of 
Pembroke ;  but  this  manor,  under  the  feoffment  of  1369,  referred  to  in  the 
account  of  Reydon  Manor,  in  Blything  Hundred,  passed  to  William  Beau- 
champ,  Lord  Bergavenny,  subject  to  the  life  interest  of  Philippa,  the  3rd 
Earl  of  Pembroke's  widow,  who  seems  to  have  remarried  Richard,  Earl  of 
Arundel,4  and  died  in  1401.' 

William  Beauchamp,  Lord  Bergavenny,  was  a  younger  brother  of 
Thomas,  Earl  of  Warwick,  and  died  in  1410,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his 
widow,  Joan,  sister  and  coheir  of  Thomas  Fitzalan,  Earl  of  Arundel,  who 
survived  until  1436,*  so  that  her  son  and  heir,  Richard  Beauchamp, 
2nd  Baron  Bergavenny,  who  was  created  Earl  of  Worcester  by  Hen.  V.  in 
Feb.  1421,  and  married  Isabel  Despenser,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Thomas, 
Earl  of  Gloucester,  K.G.,  never  inherited  or  had  actual  possession  of  this 
manor,  for  he  died  mortally  wounded  by  a  stone  from  a  sling  during  the 
wars  in  France,  i6th  April,  1422.  The  manor  therefore,  on  the  death  of 
Joan,  the  widow  of  William  Beauchamp,  Lord  Bergavenny,  passed  directly 
to  his  granddaughter  Elizabeth,  sole  child  of  Richard  Beauchamp,  Earl  of 
Worcester,  by  Joane,  daughter  of  John  of  Ghent,  Duke  of  Lancaster,  3rd 
son  of  King  Edw.  III.,  married  to  Sir  Edward  Nevill,  6th  son  of  Ralph,  ist 
Earl  of  Westmoreland,  who  in  her  right  became  Lord  Bergavenny.  They 
had  issue  two  sons,  Richard  and  George.  She  died  before  her  husband,  and 
he,  by  the  curtesy  of  England,  enjoyed  this  lordship  and  her  other  possessions 
for  life.  He  subsequently  married  Catherine,  daughter  of  Sir  Robert 
Howard,  Knt.,  and  sister  of  John,  ist  Duke  of  Norfolk,  and  died  i8th 
Oct.  1476,'  when  George  Nevill,  Lord  Abergavenny,  became  seised  thereof, 
Richard,  the  elder  brother,  having  died  without  issue.  Sir  George  Nevill 
(who  had  been  knighted  at  the  Battle  of  Tewkesbury,  gth  May,  1471) 
married  ist  Margaret,  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  Hugh  Fenne,  Knt.,  sub- 
treasurer  of  England,  and  dying  2Oth  Sept.  1492,  the  manor  apparently 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  George  Nevill,  3rd  Lord  Abergavenny.  He 
was  called  by  the  King's  writ  at  the  Tower  of  London,  June,  1483,  to  prepare 
himself  to  receive  the  order  of  knighthood  against  his  Coronation,  and 
afterwards  was  made  one  of  the  Knights  of  the  Bath,  on  the  Sunday  before 
the  Coronation  of  King  Rich.  HI.,  viz.,  4th  July,  1483  ;  after  which  he 
waited  on  the  King  in  his  progress  to  the  north.  In  1492  he  was  one  of  the 

•Pat.  Rolls,  2  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  14,  12.  »I.P.M.,  2  Hen.  IV.  54. 

'I.P.M.,  28  Edw.  III.  59.  6I.P.M.,  14  Hen.  VI.  35- 

3I.P.M.,  24  Edw.  III.  80.  "I.P.M.,  16  Edw.  IV.  66. 

4I.P.M.,  21  Rich.  II.  2. 


80  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

principal  persons  with  the  King  at  the  siege  of  Boulogne ;  and  four  years 
later  by  his  credit  and  power  preserved  the  county  of  Kent  from  joining 
the  Cornish  rebels  then  in  that  county,  and  had  a  share  in  the  honour  of 
the  victory  obtained  against  them  at  Blackheath,  I7th  July  the  same  year. 
In  1505,  being  under  suspicion  for  favouring  Edward  de  la  Pole,  Earl  of 
Lincoln,  at  that  time  in  banishment,  he  was  committed  to  prison  ;  but, 
nothing  of  guilt  appearing  against  him,  he  was  enlarged  and  received  into 
greater  favour  than  before. 

"  The  Lord  Burgeyny,"  (as  an  old  historian  says)  "  for  his  modestie, 
wyt,  and  probitie  (because  the  Kinge  found  hym  lyke  hymselfe),  always 
true,  faythful,  and  constant,  was  of  hys  sovereigne  lorde  more  esteemed, 
favoured,  and  regarded  than  he  was  before." 

In  1510  he  was  made  Constable  of  Dover  Castle,  and  Warden  of  the 
Cinque  Ports.  On  23rd  April,  1513,  he  was  elected  a  Knight  of  the  Garter, 
and  installed  jth  May  in  the  eighth  stall  on  the  princes'  side.  And,  soon 
after  embarking  with  King  Henry  VIII.,  he  commanded  one  of  the  wings 
of  the  army  at  the  siege  of  Theronenne,  and  at  the  Battle  of  Spurs.  After 
which  he  was  at  the  siege  of  Tournay,  and  on  the  surrender  thereof  was 
appointed  by  the  King,  with  6,000  men,  to  take  possession  of  that  city. 

In  1516,  when  the  King  for  the  honour  of  his  sister,  the  Queen  of 
Scots,  then  come  to  visit  him,  had  prepared  two  solemn  days  of  jousts, 
he  was  one  the  King  chose  on  his  side.  And  the  year  after  was  one  of  the 
chiefs  who  suppressed  a  great  riot  in  London. 

Two  years  later  at  a  chapter  held  at  Windsor  loth  May,  several  of  the 
Knights  of  the  Garter  being  present  with  the  King,  it  was  on  due  con- 
sideration decreed:  "  That  the  pulpit  where  is  the  picture  of  our  Saviour 
on  the  Cross,  and  the  glass  lanthorn  at  the  top,  in  the  King's  chapel,  should 
be  taken  care  to  be  duly  finished  ;  and  that  the  whole  Society  should,  for 
the  doing  thereof  with  the  greater  expedition  and  ease,  join  in  lending  their 
helping  hands."  The  sum  then  imposed  upon  the  Lord  Abergavenny  was 
twenty  pounds. 

He  was  present  at  that  memorable  interview  betwixt  King  Hen.  VIII. 
and  Francis  I.,  King  of  France,  betwixt  Guisnes  and  Ardres  ;  and  on  their 
march  the  Lord  Abergavenny  publicly  said  to  the  King :  "  Sir,  you  are 
my  king  and  sovereign,  wherefore  above  all,  I  am  bound  to  shew  you  truth 
and  not  to  let  for  none.  I  have  been  in  the  French  party,  and  they  are  in 
number  double  as  many  as  you  be."  Whereupon  he,  with  the  Earl  of 
Essex,  Edward  Ponynge,  and  Robert  Wingfeilde  were  appointed  to  take 
an  account  of  the  number  of  the  French  King's  attendants.  He  married 
Mary,  daughter  to  Edward,  Duke  of  Buckingham,  and  was  imprisoned  in 
the  Tower  for  concealment  of  words  spoken  by  that  Duke,  loth  of  September, 
1519,  viz.,  "  That  if  the  King  died,  he  would  have  the  rule  of  the  realm,  in 
spight  of  whosoever  said  the  contrary,  swearing  that,  if  the  Lord  Aber- 
gavenny revealed  this,  he  would  fight  with  him."  Which  words  were 
spoken  in  the  gallery  at  Bletchingley  in  Surrey.  But  on  the  nth  February 
following,  being  brought  to  the  King's  Bench  at  Westminster,  and  there 
confessing  "  his  indictment  of  misprision  of  treason,"  he  was  soon  after  dis- 
charged and  was  again  in  the  King's  favour.  He  was  summoned  to 
Parliament  as  premier  Baron  of  England,  by  the  title  of  "  George  Nevyle  de 
Bergevenny,  Chivaler,"  and  was  one  of  the  peers  who  subscribed  the  cele- 
brated letter  to  Pope  Clement  VII.,  importing  that  in  case  he  did  not  comply 
with  King  Henry  in  the  matter  of  his  divorce  from  Queen  Catharine,  he 
would  endanger  his  supremacy  here.  At  the  coronation  of  Queen  Anne, 


OTLEY.  81 

ist  June,  1533,  he  claimed  the  office  of  Chief  Larder,  which  was  allowed. 
He  died  in  June,  1535,  and  by  his  last  will  and  testament,  dated  the  same 
year,  viz.,  4th  June,  1535,  bequeathed  his  body  to  be  buried  in  the  parish 
church  of  Birling,  in  Kent ;  and  left  issue  by  Joan,  daughter  of  Thomas 
Fitz  Alan,  i2th  Earl  of  Arundel  (his  first  wife),  one  daughter,  named 
Elizabeth,  married  to  Henry,  Lord  d'Aubeny  ;  and  by  Mary,  his  2nd  wife, 
daughter  of  Edward  Stafford,  3rd  Duke  of  Buckingham,  Henry,  his  son  and 
heir,  as  also  five  daughters.  His  3rd  wife  was  Mary  Broke,  alias 
Cobham.  Henry  Nevill,  Lord  Abergavenny,  son  and  successor  of  George,  was 
summoned  to  Parliament  in  1551  and  1552,  and  accompanied  the  Marquess 
of  Northampton  and  some  other  lords  in  a  solemn  embassy  into  France  ; 
as  also  to  present  the  Order  of  the  Garter  to  that  King.  After  his  return,  on 
the  2nd  March,  he  was  committed  to  ward  for  striking  the  Earl  of  Oxford  in 
the  Chamber  of  Presence  ;  but  on  the  6th  April  following  he  had  a  special 
pardon  for  the  offence.  On  Wyatt's  insurrection  in  Kent,  in  the  reign  of 
Queen  Mary,  he  raised  forces  to  oppose  him,  and,  overtaking  a  body  of  his 
adherents  at  Blackfoil  Field,  in  the  parish  of  Wrotham,  he  put  them  to 
flight,  chasing  them  four  miles,  and  taking  sixty  prisoners.  After  which 
he  marched  after  Wyatt  to  London.  In  1586  he  was  one  of  the  peers  that 
sat  in  judgment  upon  the  Queen  of  Scots  at  Fotheringay.  He  died  loth 
February,  1586-7,  and  was  buried  with  great  solemnity  in  the  church  of 
Birling,  in  Kent,  2ist  March  following.  By  the  inquisition  taken  after  his 
decease  at  Maidstone,  in  the  County  of  Kent,  22nd  Aug.  1587,  the  jury  found 
his  daughter  Elizabeth,  then  aged  32,  to  be  his  sole  heir.  She  had  married 
in  1575  Sir  Thomas  Fane,  Knt.  Her  mother  was  Frances,  3rd  daughter 
of  Thomas  Manners,  ist  Earl  of  Rutland.  She  challenged  the  title  of 
Baroness  Bergavenny  against  Edward  Nevill,  nephew  of  Henry,  last  Baron, 
and  son  of  Sir  Edward  Nevill,  a  younger  brother  to  George,  Lord  Berga- 
venny, father  to  this  last -mentioned  Henry,  on  which  Sir  Edward  the  Castle 
of  Bergavenny  was  settled,  both  by  testament  and  Act  of  Parliament,  but 
the  dispute  was  not  determined  until  25th  May,  1604,  when,  after  lengthy 
arguments  on  each  part,  the  title  of  Lord  Bergavenny  was,  both  by  judg- 
ment of  the  House  of  Peers  and  order  of  the  Lords  Commissioners  for  the 
office  of  Earl  Marshal  of  England,  decreed  for  the  heir  male.  Whereupon, 
to  give  some  satisfaction  to  the  heir  female,  the  King,  by  his  letters  patent, 
granted  the  dignity  of  Barony  of  Le  Despenser  to  her  and  to  her  heirs. 
Edward  Nevill,  5th  Baron,  had  married  ist  Catherine,  daughter  of  Sir  John 
Brome,  Knt.,  of  Hatton,  co.  Oxford,  and  2ndly  Griseld,  daughter  of  Thomas 
Hughes,  of  Uxbridge,  and  died  roth  Feb.  1589. 

The  inquisition  taken  after  his  decease  at  Maidstone,  in  Kent,  7th 
July,  1589,  recites  that  Edward  Nevill,  his  son  and  heir,  was  38  years  of 
age.  The  said  Edward  Nevill,  his  eldest  son,  was  summoned  to  Parliament 
as  6th  Baron  of  Abergavenny  25th  May,  1604,  and,  the  year  after  claimed 
the  title  of  Earl  of  Westmoreland,  as  heir  male,  The  case  is  given  in  Lord 
Coke's  7th  vol.  of  Reports,  where  the  claim  is  set  forth  at  length  ;  but  the 
determination  was  ultimately  against  him.  He  married  Rachel,  daughter  of 
John  Leonard,  of  Knowle,  in  Kent,  ancestor  of  the  Earl  of  Sussex  of  that 
name,  and  had  issue  six  sons.  He  died  ist  Dec.  1622,  and  was  succeeded 
by  his  eldest  son,  Sir  Henry  Nevill,  7th  Baron  of  Abergavenny,  to  whom 
this  manor  passed.  He  married  ist  Mary,  daughter  of  Thomas  Sackvile, 
Earl  of  Dorset  (Lord  Treasurer  of  England),  by  whom  he  had  issue  Sir 
Thomas  Nevill,  Knight  of  the  Bath  (who  married  Frances,  daughter  to 
Henry,  Lord  Mordaunt,  and  died  in  1628  in  his  father's  lifetime,  and  was 


82  THE   MANORS   OF   SUFFOLK. 

buried  at  Birling  the  7th  May  in  that  year,  leaving  issue  Henry,  who  died 
in  his  infancy  in  1639) ;  Charles,who  died  in  1637  from  the  effects  of  a  fall 
from  his  horse  ;  Margaret,  wife  of  Thomas  Brooke,  of  Madely,  co.  Salop; 
Cicely,  wife  of  Fitz-William  Coningsby,  of  Hampton  Court,  co.  Hereford ; 
Anne,  Abbess  of  Pontoise  in  France ;  Elizabeth  and  Mary,  who  died  un- 
married. Lord  Abergavenny  married  2ndly  Catharine,  daughter  to  Edward, 
4th  Lord  Vaux,  of  Harrowden,  and  had  issue  by  her  two  sons  and  three 
daughters.  This  Henry,  Lord  Abergavenny,  was  buried  at  Birling 
24th  December,  1641,  and  the  Lady  Catharine,  his  2nd  wife,  was  buried 
by  his  side  loth  July,  1649. 

John  Nevill,  8th  Baron  Abergavenny,  son  of  Henry  by  his  2nd 
wife,  succeeded,  and  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  and  coheir  of  William 
Chamberlaine,  of  Sherburne  Castle,  in  Oxfordshire,  and  died  I2th  Dec. 
1660,  without  issue,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  brother  George, 
9th  Baron  Abergavenny,  who  married  Mary,  daughter  of  Thomas,  son 
and  heir  of  Henry  Giffard,  M.D.,  and  had  issue  by  her,  one  son  George, 
and  dying  2nd  June  1666,  the  manor  passed  to  this  son  George,  loth 
Baron  Abergavenny.  He  married  Honora,  daughter  of  John,  Lord 
Bellasys,  of  Worlaby,  and  departed  this  life  without  issue,  26th  March, 
1694-5,  whereupon  the  manor  descended  and  came  to  the  heir  male 
of  Sir  Christopher  Nevill,  second  surviving  son  of  Edward,  6th  Lord 
Abergavenny  and  Rachel,  his  wife,  daughter  of  John  Leonard,  namely,  to 
George,  nth  Lord  Abergavenny.  He  married  Anne,  daughter  of  Nehemiah 
Walker,  by  whom  he  had  issue  three  sons  and  two  daughters,  and  dying 
nth  March,  1720-1,  the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  surviving  son  George, 
I2th  Baron,  who  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  to  Edward  Thornicroft,  of 
the  city  of  Westminster,  and  dying  I5th  November,  1723  without  issue, 
it  passed  to  his  brother,  Edward  Nevill,  I3th  Lord  Abergavenny, 
who  married  Catherine,  daughter  to  Lieutenant-General  Tatton,  and  dying 
gth  October,  1724,  in  the  igth  year  of  his  age,  and  without  issue,  was 
succeeded  by  his  cousin,  William  Nevill,  I4th  Baron,  son  and  heir  of  Edward 
Nevill,  brother  to  George,  nth  Lord  Abergavenny. 

William  Nevill,  I4th  Lord  Abergavenny,  on  loth  Feb.  1738-9,  was  con- 
stituted Master  of  the  Jewel  Office.  His  lordship  married  ist  Catherine 
(Tatton),  Dowager  Baroness  Abergavenny,  widow  of  Edward,  the  late  lord, 
and  by  her  had  issue  a  son  named  George,  the  King  being  his  godfather. 
He  married  2ndly  the  Lady  Rebecca  Herbert,  daughter  of  Thomas,  8th 
Earl  of  Pembroke,  by  whom  he  left  issue  three  daughters,  Harriet,  Mary, 
and  Sophia,  and  one  son,  William.  His  lordship  died  2ist  Sept.  1744, 
and  was  buried  at  East  Grinstead,  in  Sussex,  2nd  October  following,  when 
the  manor  passed  to  his  only  son,  George  Nevill,  I5th  Lord  Abergavenny, 
who  held  his  first  court  i7th  June,  1748.  He  married  Henrietta,  daughter 
of  Thomas  Pelham,  of  Stanmere,  in  Sussex,  sister  to  Thomas  Pelham,  ist 
Earl  of  Chi  Chester,  and  widow  of  the  Hon.  Richard  Temple,  and  was 
advanced  to  the  dignity  of  Viscount  Nevill  and  Earl  of  Abergavenny,  I7th 
May,  1784.  He  died  loth  Sept.  1785,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  successor,  Henry  Nevill,  i6th  Baron  and  2nd  Earl,  who  married  Mary, 
only  child  of  John  Robinson,  of  Wyke  Honn,  co.  Middlesex,  sometime 
Secretary  to  the  Treasury.  The  Earl  died  27th  May,  1843,  and  the  manor 
passed  with  the  title  to  his  eldest  surviving  son,  John  Nevill,  in  holy  orders, 
3rd  Earl,  who,  dying  unmarried  I4th  April,  1845,  the  manor  went  to  his 
brother,  William  Nevill,  4th  Earl,  also  in  holy  orders.  He  married  Caroline, 
second  daughter  of  Ralph  Leeke,  of  Longford  Hall,  co.  Salop,  and  dying 


OTLEY.  83 

I7th  Aug.  1868,  the  manor  passed  to  his  elder  son,  William  Nevill,  5th  Earl 
of  Abergavenny.  He  married  Caroline,  eldest  daughter  of  Sir  John 
Vandem  Bempde  Johnstone,  2nd  Bart.,  of  Hackness  Hall,  co.  York,  M.P. 
In  1870  the  manor  was  purchased  by  Edward  Broughton  Rouse, 
M.A.,  LL.D.,  who  a  year  or  two  subsequently  sold  the  same  to  John 
Tollemache,  now  Lord  Tollemache,  who  is  now  lord  of  the  manor. 

In  the  time  of  Henry  Nevill,  yth  Lord  Abergavenny,  1640,  he,  being 
lord  of  the  manor,  brought  an  action  against  John  Armiger  and  others, 
particulars  of  which  will  be  found  amongst  the  Exchequer  Depositions,1 
to  recover  "  treasure  silver,"  which  had  been  found  in  a  house  in  Otley. 
The  ancient  family  of  Armiger  had  been  holders  of  land  in  Otley  from  an 
early  date,  and  in  1387  Robert  Armiger  held  a  messuage  and  lands  here 
called  "  Armiger's,"  and  lands  in  Clopton.  John  Armiger,  of  Otley,  died  in 
I539-  Thomas,  his  son,  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Thomas  Heigham, 
of  Heigham  Hall,  in  Gazeley,  and  was  father  of  Thomas  Armiger,  of  Bury  St. 
Edmunds,  and  lord  of  Monewden.  He  married  Jane,  daughter  and  coheir 
of  John  Eyre,  receiver  of  the  revenues  of  King  Edw.  VI.  in  Suffolk,  and  had 
issue  Thomas,  his  son  and  heir,  who  resided  at  Thrandeston. 

In  one  of  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum  is  a  release 
of  rents  in  Helmingham  due  to  "  Mounseux  Manor,"  in  Otley,  in  1441." 

Arms  of  BEAUCHAMP  :  Gules,  a  fesse  between  6  cross-crosslets  Or. 

NETHERHALL  MANOR. 

In  the  reign  of  King  Rich.  I.  Adam  de  Otteley  held  a  fee  here  which  in 
the  time  of  Hen.  III.  was  held  by  Thomas  de  Otteley,3  and  in  1275  was  held 
by  Richard  de  Otteley.4  This  fee  was  held  by  Thomas  de  Otteley,  who  died 
in  1296,'  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  de  Otteley.  One  fee 
was  in  1327  held  by  R.  Cressener,  and  in  1330  by  Thomas  de  Cressener. 
Davy  enters  John  Mortimer,  who  died  in  1333,  as  lord,  but  if  this  be  correct 
he  was  probably  a  trustee  ;  for  we  find  the  manor  back  again  in  the 
Cresseners,  and  passing  with  the  Manor  of  Cresseners  in  Hawkedon,  in 
Risbridge  Hundred,  from  Robert  Cressener  in  1410  to  his  son  and 
heir,  William  Cressener,  who  died  in  1454. 

Shortly  after  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  John  Gosnold,  son  of  John 
Gosnold,  of  Otley.  He  married  Katherine  Kebell,  and  with  three  sons,  Robert, 
Edmund,  and  William,  had  two  daughters.  John  Gosnold  died  in  1470, 
when  the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son,  Robert  Gosnold,  of  Otley,  who 
married  1st  Agnes,  daughter  of  John  Hill,  of  Ashe,  by  whom  he  had  two 
sons,  John  and  Robert,  and  three  daughters  ;  and  2ndly  Anne  Bacon, 
daughter  of  Richard  Doggett,  by  whom  he  had  no  issue.  On  Robert's 
death  the  manor  passed  to  his  2nd  son,  Robert  Gosnold,  who  married 
Marie,  daughter  of  Robert  Vesey,  of  Hadleigh,  by  whom  he  had  issue 
Robert,  Anthony,  John,  William,  Alys,  Katherine,  Dorothy,  Mary,  Agnes, 
Cecyll,  and  Judith.  A  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  in  1542  by  Robert 
Gosnold  against  John  Crestener.6  It  included  lands  in  Otley,  Cleydon, 
Barham,  Helmingham,  and  elsewhere. 

In  the  Pleadings  relating  to  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster  in  1552  there  is 
notice  of  an  action  by  Robert  "  Gosnall "  against  Stephen  Lowdham  and 

1 16  Charles  I.,  at  Wickham  Market.  4  H.R.  ii.  188. 

'Add  Ch.  10206.  s Extent,  I.P.M.,  25  Edw.  I.  38. 

3  T.  de  N.  283.  «  Fine,  Mich.  34  Hen.  VIII. 


84  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Thomas  Lowdham,  his  son,  as  to  exemption  from  tolls  in  this  manor.1 
On  Robert  Gosnold's  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son,  Robert 
Gosnold,'  who  married  Ursula,  daughter  of  William  Naunton,  of  Alderton, 
and  dying  in  1616  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Gosnold  or 

Gosnall. 

Kirby,  writing  in  1764,  says  that  in  Otley  is  a  good  old  house  formerly 
the  seat  of  the  Gosnolds,  and  that  in  the  church  is  a  monument  to  John 
Gosnold,  who  died  in  1628,  which  sets  forth  that  he  was  descended  from 
the  ancient  and  worthy  families  of  Naunton  and  Wingfield,  of  Lethering- 
ham  ;  that  he  was  Gentleman  Usher  to  Queen  Elizabeth  and  King  James  I., 
afterwards  Gentleman  of  the  Privy  Chamber  to  King  Charles  I.,  and  that 
Winifred,  his  wife,  was  a  granddaughter  of  Sir  Richard  Poole  and  the  Lady 
Margaret,  Countess  of  Salisbury,  who  was  the  daughter  of  George,  Duke  of 
Clarence,  brother  of  King  Edw.  IV.  This  John  Gosnold  was  the  3rd 
son  of  Robert  Gosnold,  who  died  in  1616.  John  left  five  sons  and  three 
daughters. 

Kirby  adds:  "This  family  suffered  much  in  the  time  of  the  great 
Rebellion,  insomuch  that  the  Reverend  Lionel  Gosnold,  the  last  of  the 
family,  and  rector  of  that  parish,  was  obliged  to  sell  the  estate."  The 
hall  referred  to  is  partly  surrounded  by  its  ancient  moat ;  some  of  the  rooms 
contain  examples  of  ancient  oak  panelling,  and  on  the  walls  of  two  of  the 
rooms  were  formerly  a  number  of  heraldic  paintings.  But  to  return. 
Robert  Gosnold,  who  compounded  for  delinquency  in  1646,*  died  about 
1656,  and  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Gosnold,  at  whose 
death  it  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Gosnold,  from  whom  it  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  William  Gosnold.  On  William  Gosnold's  death  the 
manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Gosnold. 

The  manor  then  seems  to  have  passed  to  Isaac  Martin  Rebow,  of 
Wyvenhoe  Park,  Essex,  Col.  of  the  East  Essex  Militia,  Recorder  and  M.P. 
for  Colchester,  son  of  Isaac  Lemyng  Rebow,  of  Colchester,  M.P.  He  married 
his  cousin  Mary,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Thomas  Martin,  of  Alresford 
Hall,  and  assumed  the  additional  surname  of  Martin  under  the  will  of  his 
maternal  grandfather,  Capt.  Martin.  He  died  3rd  Oct.  1781,  leaving  three 
daughters,  this  manor  apparently  passing  to  the  eldest,  Mary  Hester, 
married  in  1796  to  General  Francis  Slater  (son  of  R.  Slater,  of  Chester- 
field), who  assumed  the  surname  of  Rebow,  and  left  at  his  decease  one  only 
daughter  and  heir,  Mary  Martin,  married  ist  to  Sir  Thomas  Ormsby, 
Bart.,  and  2ndly  in  1835  to  John  Gurdon  (2nd  son  of  Theophilus  Thorn- 
haugh  Gurdon,  of  Letton,  Norfolk),  who  on  his  marriage  assumed  the 
additional  surname  of  Rebow.  He  married  andly,  3rd  Dec.  1845,  Lady 
•  Georgiana  Toler,  4th  daughter  of  Hector  John  Graham,  2nd  Earl  of  Norbury, 
and  dying  i2th  Oct.,  1870,  the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son  by  his  second 
marriage,  Hector  John  Gurdon  Rebow,  of  Wyvenhoe  Park,  Essex,  the 
present  lord  of  the  manor.  He  is  J.P.  and  D.L.  for  Essex,  and  was 
High  Sheriff  in  1882.  He  married  25th  June,  1873,  Judith  Blanche,  daughter 
of  the  Rev.  Philip  Gurdon,  rector  of  Cranworth-cum-Letton,  Norfolk,  and 
has  a  son  Martin. 

A  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  in  1364  between  Sir  William  de  Hemen- 
hale  and  John  de    Bresyngham,  sen.,  and  Margaret  his  wife,   the  manor 

'Duchy  of  Lane.,   Cal.  to   Pleadings,   6  Gosnold  against   Anthony  Gosnold 

Edw.  VI.  6.  and  others.     Fine,  Hil.  36  Eliz. 

•A  "Newhall  Manor"  is  the  subject  of  a         'The  Suffolk  Traveller,  2nd  ed.  p.  81. 

fine  levied    in    1594    by    Robert         4S.P.  1646,  Cal.  of  Com.  1467  ;  S.P.  1647, 

Com.  for  money  advance,  809. 


OTLEY.  85 

being,  it  is  stated,  then  held  by  John,  son  of  John  de  Hoo,  for  life.1     We  are 
unable  to  say  whether  the  fine  relates  to  Overhall  or  Netherhall  Manor. 

Extracts  from  Court  Rolls  of  the  Manor  of  Otley  will  be  found  amongst 
the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.2  As  to  customs  and 
demesne,  see  S.P.  17  Hen.  VIII.  1834  (2). 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  is  an 
action  by  Leonard  Pereson  against  Robert  Morse  as  to  copyhold  and 
customary  lands  in  Otley  and  Netherhall  in  Otley  and  Kingeshall  in 
Clopton,  purchased  by  plaintiff  of  defendant,  as  son  and  heir  of  Edward 
Morse,  deceased,  it  being  alleged  that  the  custom  of  the  manor  (which  ?) 
was  that  land  should  descend  to  the  youngest  son.3 

Arms  of  GOSNOLD  :  Per  pale  crenellee  Or  and  Azure.  Of  REBOW  : 
Gu,  two  long  bows,  bent  and  interlaced,  in  saltier,  Or  stringed  Arg.  between 
4  bezants,  each  charged  with  a  fleur-de-lis,  Az. 


'Feet  of  Fines,  38  Edw.  III.  39.  3C.P.  ii.  322. 

"Add.  Ch.  10219,  10227. 


86  MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

PL  AY  FORD. 

[HERE  was  one  manor  here  in  Saxon  times  belonging  to 
Godwin,  son  of  Alfer,  holding  under  the  Queen  in  the 
Confessor's  time.  It  consisted  of  3  carucates  of  land,  8 
villeins,  6  serfs,  3  ploughteams  in  demesne  and  8  belonging 
to  the  men,  wood  sufficient  to  support  20  hogs,  20  acres  of 
meadow,  and  i  mill,  3  rouncies,  15  beasts,  69  hogs,  160 
sheep,  and  6  hives  of  bees,  valued  at  £8.  By  the  time  of  the 
Survey  the  value  had  come  down  to  iocs.,  and  there  had  been  various 
alterations  in  the  details.  The  villeins  had  come  down  to  4,  in  place  of 
3  bordars  there  were  23,  and  i  burgess  of  Ipswich,  I  serf  only,  2  plough- 
teams  in  demesne  and  4  belonging  to  the  tenants,  i  beast  only,  25  hogs, 
26  sheep,  and  i  hive  of  bees,  while  the  rouncies  seem  to  have  disappeared 
altogether.  There  was  also  a  church  with  10  acres,  valued  at  20^.  At  the 
time  of  the  Survey  the  manor  was  held  by  Humfrey,  son  of  Robert,  of 
Robert  Malet. 

Robert  Malet  also  held  here  100  acres,  3  ploughteams  (at  the  time  of 
the  Survey  reduced  to  2),  and  2^  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  205.,  which 
had  been  formerly  held  by  12  freemen  under  commendation  to  the  said 
Godwin,  all  except  two,  Ettric  and  Blackman,  under  commendation  to 
Halden,  the  predecessor  of  Geoffrey  de  Magnaville. 

Robert  Malet  had  the  soc,  sac,  and  custom.  It  (probably  the  town- 
ship) was  one  league  long,  ij  leagues  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  gd.1 

PLAYFORD  OR  PLAYFORD  HALL  MANOR  WITH  MITCHELIS. 

This  manor  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  was  held  by  Godwin,  son  of 
Alfer,  under  the  Queen,  and  was  at  the  time  of  the  Domesday  Survey  held  by 
Humphrey,  son  of  Robert,  under  Robert  Malet  as  tenant  in  chief.  It 
appears  to  have  been  held  in  the  time  of  Edw.  I.  by  Richard,  son  of  Robert 
de  Playford,  and  in  1301  apparently  by  Robert  de  Quinton  and  Segeyna,  his 
wife,  though  in  1316  it  still  seems  to  have  continued  in  the  Playford  family, 
as  we  find  John  de  Playford  then  lord.  The  manor  before  1400  vested  in 
Sir  George  Felbrigg,  son  of  Sir  Roger  Felbrigg.  The  De  Felbriggs  were  a 
younger  branch  of  the  Bigots,  Earls  of  Norfolk.  Sir  Simon  le  Bigot,  third 
son  of  Hugh,  Earl  of  Norfolk,  marrying  Maud,  daughter  and  heir  of  Richard 
de  Felbrigg,  his  descendants  took  the  name  of  Felbrigg  with  the  property. 
John  le  Bigot,  second  son  of  Sir  Roger,  the  son  of  the  above-named  Sir 
Simon,  had  the  lordship  of  Tuttington  (?)  in  1339  by  gift  of  his  father, 
and  was  succeeded  in  it  by  his  son  Roger,  the  father  of  Sir  George  Felbrigg, 
who  acquired  this  Manor  of  Playford.  Sir  George  married  ist  Amy,  daugh- 
ter of  Sir  Roger  de  Hales  and  relict  of  Edmund  de  Reedisham,  and  2ndly 
Mary,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Sir  John  de  Aspale,  widow  of  Sir  Thomas 
Naunton,  Knt. 

In  1367  the  King  wrote  to  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  his  Chan- 
cellor, to  pardon  his  beloved  Esquire,  George  de  Felbrigg  for  money  due  to 
the  Crown  in  respect  of  lands  granted  to  him  on  forfeiture,  and  about  the 
end  of  that  King's  reign  he  was  Esquire  of  the  Body  to  his  Majesty.  In 
1377  ne  was  one  °f  the  jury  who  found  Alice  Perers  (late  King  Edward  the 
Third's  mistress)  guilty  of  maintenance. 

In  1383  he  and  Margery  his  wife  held  the  lordships  of  Wortham  and 
Ingham  in  this  county.  He  was  in  the  King's  army,  when  he  marched  into 

1  Dora.  ii/34l6. 


PLAYFORD.  87 

Scotland  in  1385  ;  was  knighted  by  him  on  his  entrance  into  that  country, 
and  had  a  grant  of  £40  per  annum  for  life,  payable  out  of  the  issues  of 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  by  the  Sheriff ;  was  appointed  one  of  the  King's 
Proctors  in  1386  to  conclude  a  league  with  William,  Duke  of  Guelderland, 
and  Thomas,  Duke  of  Gloucester  and  Constable  of  England  ;  and  in  1391 
one  of  the  Lieutenants  in  the  Court  of  Chivalry,  to  hear  and  determine  the 
cause  between  the  Lords  Morley  and  Lovell.  He  built  the  church  porch 
at  Playford,  and  repaired  or  rebuilt  a  large  part  of  the  church  itself.  Sir 
George  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  in  Playford  in  1384.' 

Sir  George  Felbrigg  died  in  1400,  and  his  will,  which  is  dated  6th  Feb. 
1400,  was  proved  i8th  May,  1401.  He  was  buried  in  St.  Mary's  church  in 
this  parish.  Margery,  his  wife,  died  in  1419,  and  appointed  Richard 
Felbrigg,  her  second  son,  executor.  In  a  window  of  the  Church  of  Playford, 
which  was  built  by  Sir  George,  was  his  portrait,  and  that  of  his  second  wife, 
with  the  arms  of  Felbrigg  impaling  Aspal.  Gough  in  his  Sepulchral  Monu- 
ments2 on  the  tomb  and  window,  says :  "Sir  George  Felbrigge  was  buried 
in  the  north  wall  of  the  nave  of  Playford  Church,  in  a  chantry  founded 
by  him.  His  slab  remains,  and  on  it  his  figure  in  complete  armour,  a 
pointed  helmet,  whiskers,  and  gorget  of  mail,  and  gauntlets,  a  lion  rampant  on 
his  breast,  a  sword  and  dagger,  piked  shoes,  a  lion  at  feet.  The  canopy 
over  him  rests  on  double  pillars,  with  an  embattled  base  of  quatrefoils ; 
in  the  point  of  the  arch  a  lion  rampant.  The  same  coat  is  in  the  north 
window.  Upon  opening  the  graves  1784,  at  five  feet  depth  were  found 
bones — a  scull,  a  jaw,  a  tibia,  vertebrae,  and  the  os  ischium — and  a  rusty 
nail  in  wood.  All  that  remains  of  the  inscription  is  '  ceste  .  .  .  funda  .  de  . 
per  .  al  dieu  .  loange  .  et  .  sue.  mier  .  .  .  pur  .  1'alme  .  de  .  lui  .  A  . 
dieu  .  quil.  est .  pete  .  ei.'  The  last  word  is  imperfect ;  the  stops  are  an  M  over 
a  half  rose.  On  the  key  stone  of  the  porch,  an  angel  holds  the  arms  of 
Felbrigge.  In  the  window  Weever  saw  :  John  (George)  Felbrydge  and 
Margery  his  wife." 

He  was  succeeded  by  Sir  John  Felbrigg,  his  eldest  son  and  heir,  by 
Margery  his  wife.  He  married  Margaret  de  Waldegrave.  During  his  life 
the  elder  branch,  seated  at  Felbrigg,  became  extinct  in  the  male  line.  Sir 
Simon,  who  had  left  the  reversion  of  some  of  his  manors  to  Sir  John,  had 
directed  Felbrigg  and  Aylmerton  to  be  sold  to  pay  his  debts,  and  John 
Wymondham  had  purchased  them.  He  was  residing  at  Felbrigg  with  his 
wife,  the  Lady  Margery,  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Clifton,  of  Bokenham,  and 
relict  of  Sir  Edward  Hastings,  of  Elsing.  Sir  John  Felbrigg,  conceiving  that 
he  had  a  right  to  Felbrigg  as  heir-at-law,  made  a  forcible  entry  into  the 
manor-house.  John  Wymondham  was  from  home  at  the  time,  but  the 
Lady  Margery  was  in  the  house.  Sir  John  threatened  to  set  the  house  on 
fire  ;  and  when  this  threat  failed  to  induce  the  lady  to  go,  he  seized  her  by 
the  hair  of  her  head  and  dragged  her  out,  and  took  possession.  The  King, 
however,  ordering  that  John  Wymondham  be  put  in  possession,  Sir  John 
Felbrigg  withdrew  his  claim  on  payment  of  200  marks  to  him  by  Wymond- 
ham. 

The  Manor  of  Crounthorp,  in  Norfolk,  was  conveyed  to  this  Sir  John 
by  William  Hales  and  Margery  his  wife.  According  to  a  direction  in  his 
will,  dated  2nd  Oct.  1423,  he  was  buried  in  the  chancel  of  this  parish  church, 
in  which  were  formerly  the  arms  of  Felbrigg  impaling  Waldegrave.  Sir 

'Chart.  Rolls,  7  and  8  Rich.  II.  8.  'Vol.  iv.  134. 


88  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

John  left  an  only  daughter  and  heir,  Margery,  who  married  Thomas  Samp- 
son,' of  Brettennam ;  he  inherited  this  property  in  her  right,  and  died  in 
1439.  His  quartered  coat  then  was,  Sampson,  quartering  Felbrigg  and 
Aspal.' 

From  him  the  manor  passed  to  his  widow,  the  Felbrigg  heiress,  who  held 
until  her  death  in  1476,'  when  it  went  to  her  grandson,  Thomas  Sampson, 
son  of  Sir  George  Sampson,  her  eldest  son,  by  Catherine,  daughter  of  John 
Levewthorpe,  of  Wortham.  Sir  George  Sampson's  will  was  dated  soth 
Sept.  1458,  and  it  was  proved  gth  Oct.  1460.  Thomas  Sampson,  of  Playford, 
the  grandson  of  the  Felbrigg  heiress,  was  fined  for  not  taking  upon  himself 
the  dignity  of  knighthood.  He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  and  heir  of 
John  Say  (by  whom  it  was  thought  that  Felton  was  heir  to  the  last  Lady 
Berner's  lands),  and  died  in  1483,*  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Sir  Thomas  Sampson. 

He  married  Catherine,  daughter  of  Sir  James  Hobart,  of  Loddon, 
Norfolk,  Knt.,  and  died  without  issue  2nd  Jan.  1511-2,  leaving  his  widow 
Catherine  surviving.  She  died  loth  April,  1546,  and  was  buried  at  Loddon. 
The  manor  passed  to  Sir  Thomas's  nephew,  Thomas  Felton,  son  of  his 
sister  Margery  and  of  her  husband,  Robert  Felton,  of  Shotley. 

The  Feltonswere  a  branch  of  an  ancient  and  illustrious  family  descended, 
as  is  supposed,  from  a  younger  son  of  Roger  Bertram,  Baron  of  Mitford,and 
Lord  of  Felton  in  Northumberland,  who  died  in  1242.  This  younger  son, 
called  Pagan  or  Paine,  was  Lord  of  Upper  Felton.  William  Fitz-Paine  or 
De  Felton,  the  elder  son  of  Paine,  was  a  commander  of  great  note  in  the 
Scotch  wars  of  Edward  I.,  and  his  son,  Sir  William  de  Felton,  Knt.,  was 
Sheriff  of  Northumberland,  King's  Justice  for  Scotland,  Governor  of 
Bamburgh  and  Roxburgh  Castles,  Seneschal  of  Poictou  and  Limousin,  and 
employed  in  divers  honourable  services  by  Edw.  II.  and  Edw.  III.  He  was 
summoned  as  a  Peer  of  the  Realm  to  sit  in  Parliament  in  1342,  and  was 
killed  in  battle  in  Spain  in  1367,  while  attending  the  Duke  of  Lancaster. 
Robert  de  Felton,  2nd  son  of  the  above-named  Paine,  had  the  Manor  of 
Litcham,  in  Norfolk,  and  in  1297  nad  the  King's  licence  to  hold  a  market 
in  it.  His  son  was  also  a  Peer  of  Parliament,  and  is  thought  to  be  the  same 
who  was  knighted  with  great  solemnity  in  1306  with  300  others  at  the  high 
altar  of  Westminster  Abbey.  His  son,  Sir  John  Felton,  Knt.,  of  Litcham, 
Norfolk,  was  also  a  Peer  of  Parliament  in  1342.  But  of  all  the  Felton  family 
thejnost  illustrious  was  Thomas  de  Felton,  K.G.,  second  son  of  the  above- 
named  Sir  John,  and  on  the  death  of  his  elder  brother,  or,  as  Gage  says,  his 
father,  Hamon,  became  Lord  of  Litcham.  Frequent  mention  is  made  of 
him  in  Froissart's  Chronicles,  and  a  good  memoir  of  him  is  given  in  Beltz's 
Memorials  of  the  Order  of  the  Garter.  "  The  important  services,"  says  the 
latter  writer,  "  for  which  this  eminent  person  was  distinguished  were 
chiefly  performed  in  Aquitaine,  where  his  military  talents  were  long  and 
successfully  employed  by  his  illustrious  patron,  the  Prince  of  Wales,  and 
where  he  discharged  during  14  years  the  high  ministerial  function  of 
Seneschal." 

In  1361  he  witnessed  the  marriage  of  the  Black  Prince.  In  1364  he 
attended  the  festivities  at  Angouleme,  in  honour  of  the  King  of  Cyprus ; 

'Sec    Manor    of    Sulveys,    Reydon,  in         4I.P.M.,  i  Rich.  III.  35  ;   Weever  Funeral 

Samford  Hundred.  Monum.     Bur.  in   Great   Healings 

'See  Suffolk  Institute,  iv.  19.  Church. 
M.P.M.,  i6Edw.  IV.  48. 


PLAYFORD. 


89 


was  employed  with  Sir  John  Chandos  in  negotiating  a  treaty  with  the  King 
of  Navarre  ;  was  taken  prisoner  in  a  desperate  battle,  in  which  200  English 
and  Spanish  soldiers  were  killed,  the  same  in  which  his  kinsmen,  Sir  William 
Felton,  the  Seneschal  of  Limousin,  was  killed.  Being  exchanged,  he  con- 
tinued to  be  employed  in  affairs  of  great  trust,  till  in  an  unfortunate 
encounter  with  the  French  near  Bordeaux,  ist  Nov.  1377,  he  was  taken 
prisoner  by  Jean  de  Lignac.  His  ransom  was  fixed  at  30,000  francs,  and 
three  years  given  him  in  which  to  raise  it.  This  large  sum  was  eventually 
raised  by  the  aid  of  King  Rich.,  who  placed  at  his  disposal  a  French  prisoner, 
Guillaume  de  Bordes,  Chevalier,  just  at  the  expiration  of  the  term  in  1380. 

In  January,  1381,  he  was  made  K.G.,  being  the  68th  knight  from  the 
foundation.  He  died  in  April  of  the  same  year.  Besides  his  Manor  of 
Litcham  and  others  in  Norfolk,  Sir  Thomas  Felton  had  property  in  Suffolk. 
He  was  lord  of  the  manor  called  Felton's,  in  Barrow,  the  reversion  of  which 
he  purchased  for  40  marks  in  1356  of  Sir  Edmund  de  Creting,  and  had  free 
warren  therein  granted  him  in  1362.  He  seems  at  the  same  time  to  have 
acquired  rights  in  other  lands  of  the  De  Cretings,  in  Risby,  Saxham,  the 
three  Fornhams,  Higham,  and  Hengrave,1  and  to  have  possessed  the  Manor 
of  Fordham,  in  Cambridgeshire.2 

But  to  return.  Particulars  as  to  the  wardship  of  Thomas  Felton  as 
heir  of  Sir  Thomas  Sampson  will  be  found  amongst  the  State  Papers  for 

I5I2.3 

Thomas  Felton,  lord  of  this  manor,  married  Cicely,  daughter  of  Thomas 
Seckford,  of  Great  Bealings,  and  is  mentioned  in  the  State  Papers  in  I53&.4 
He  died  loth  Feb.  1533,'  and  the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son,  Thomas 
Felton,  of  Playford.  He  married  Mary  (?  Maud),  daughter  of  Sir  Richard 
Cavendish,  Knt.,  of  Trimley,  and  dying  in  1578  was  succeeded  by  his  eldest 
son  and  heir,  Sir  Anthony  Felton,  K.B.,  High  Sheriff  for  Suffolk  in  1597. 
In  the  discharge  of  his  office  as  such  he  gave  great  offence  to  one  Edmund 
Withepole.  The  fact  appears  from  the  Decree  of  the  Earl  Marshal,  which 
is  as  follows  : — 

"  Anthony  Felton." 

"  A  Decree  by  the  Earle  Marshall  touching  a  Matter  in  question  between 
Anthony  Felton  and  Edmund  Withepole.  13  Maij  1598. 

"  Anthony  Felton  Esqr.  and  Edmund  Withipole  Esqr.,  being  called 
before  the  Earle  Marshall  for  a  certayne  disgrace  by  the  Bastinado  offered 
by  the  sd.  Withypole  to  the  sd.  Felton  in  the  Towne  of  Ipswich  Upon 
long  large  and  deliberate  hearing  of  the  ground  of  the  quarrell  and  of  the 
proceedings  :  the  Earle  Marshall  the  last  day,  being  the  day  above  written, 
having  called  for  his  assistants,  Thos.  Lord  Howard  de  Walden,  John  Ld. 
Lumley,  Thos.  Ld.  Darcy  of  Chick,  Sir  Wm.  Knowles  Knt-  Comptroller  of 
her  Malies  Household,  Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  Captaine  of  her  Malies  Garde, 
Sir  Robert  Sydney,  Ld.  Governor  of  Flushinge,  Sir  Edward  Dyer,  Chancellor 
of  the  Order  of  the  Garter,  did  decree  the  cause  in  this  sort :  That  the  said 
Edmund  Withypole  should  acknowledge  that  he  had  done  wronge  to  the 
said  Felton,  and  to  himselfe  in  taking  a  quarrell  against  him  without  ground, 
and  in  proceeding  in  it  without  reason.  That  the  said  Withipole  should 
confess  to  the  said  Felton,  he  knew  him  to  be  a  gentleman  unfitttobestroken, 
and  to  have  any  such  disgrace  offered  him,  that  from  henceforward  he  would 


1  Gage's  Thingoe,  p.  II. 

"Also  see  Suffolk  Institute,  iv.  26. 

3S.P.4  Hen.  VIII.  3582. 


4 State  Papers,  1536,  p.  1257  ii. 
'I.P.M.,  26  Hen.  VIII.  3. 


90  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

maintayne  the  said  Felton's  reputation  against  any  that  wold  by  his  former 
unadvised  act  seeke  to  impaire  it,  and  that  which  he  now  spake  he  spake 
from  his  hart  and  would  at  all  times,  and  in  all  places  avowe,  to  which  order 
the  sd.  Withipole  submitted  himselfe,  and  performed  it  accordingly. 

"  Whereupon  the  sd.  Felton  is  adjudged  to  be  cleare  from  all  touch  of 
disgrace,  since  all  the  tyme  of  the  assault  made  upon  him,  he  drew  his 
sword,  and  as  a  gentleman  offered  to  defend  his  reputation  and  Sithence 
till  this  day,  he  hath  been  restrayned  by  auchthoritye  from  seeking  any 
further  meanes  to  right  himself,  and  now  doth  receive  such  satisfaction  as 
the  Earle  Marshall  and  his  assisstants  thinke  to  be  fitt  for  the  one  party  to 
give,  and  the  other  to  receave. 

"  ESSEX 
"  With  his  scale  of  Arms."1 

Sir  Anthony  Felton  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Henry,  ist  Baron 
Grey,  of  Groby,2  and  was  High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk  in  1597.  He  died  in 
1613,  and  was  buried  in  Playford  Church,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Sir  Henry  Felton,  who  was  created  a  baronet,  2Oth  July,  i62O,3  and 
died  i8th  Sept.  1624.  He  left  by  Dorothy  his  wife,  daughter  of  Sir  Nicholas 
Bacon,  of  Redgrave,  and  widow  of  Sir  Bassingbourn  Gawdy,  Knt.,  of  West 
Harling,  in  Norfolk  (which  Dorothy  remarried  William  Broke,  of  Nacton), 
a  son  and  successor,  Sir  Henry  Felton,  2nd  Bart.,  who  was  five  years  old  at 
the  death  of  his  father,  and  was  made  a  ward  in  chancery.  His  grand- 
mother, Sir  Anthony's  widow,  having  Playford  for  the  jointure-house,  he 
appears  to  have  resided  at  Shotley  so  late  as  1677.  ^n  Clarke's  History  of 
Ipswich,  there  is  a  story  of  his  feigning  illness  at  his  house  at  Shotley  to 
avoid  meeting  Sir  Phineas  Pratt,  who  in  that  year  came  to  him  about  the 
purchase  of  timber  for  the  Admiralty,  which  it  seems  Sir  Henry  had  partly 
agreed  to.  "  My  lady,"  who  came  to  speak  with  the  Commissioners  instead 
of  her  husband,  let  out  the  secret  of  his  illness  when  she  said,  "  Sir  Henry 
thought  himself  not  engaged  to  sell  the  timber,  and  could  have  more  for  it." 

Sir  Henry  was  twice  member  for  the  county  of  Suffolk,  in  the  Convention 
Parliament,  and  in  Charles  the  Second's  second  Parliament  [1661-1678].  In  a 
pamphlet  entitled  "  A  seasonable  argument  to  persuade  all  the  Grand 
Juries  in  England  to  petition  for  a  new  Parliament,  or  A  List  of  the  principal 
labourers  in  the  great  design  of  Popery  and  arbitrary  power,  who  have 
betrayed  their  country,"  &c.,  printed  at  Amsterdam,  in  1677,  and  ascribed 
to  Andrew  Marvel,  under  the  head  of  Suffolk,  Sir  Henry  Felton  is  set  down 
as  a  pensioner,  and  his  son  a  bed-chamber  man.4  He  appears  to  have 
quarrelled  with  his  cousins  the  Gawdys,  and  to  have  got  into  some  trouble 
with  Parliament,  in  consequence  of  certain  charges  he  brought  against  Mr. 
Gawdy.5 

Sir  Henry  married  at  Great  Fakenham,  igth  Dec.  1637,  Susanna,  3rd 
daughter  of  Sir  Lionel  Tollemache,  2nd  Bart,  of  Helmingham,6  and  died  in 
Oct.  I&9O,7  being  buried  the  20th  of  the  same  month  at  Playford,  when  the 

'Harl.   MSS.  6072,  p.    326;    cited    from  3  State  Papers,  where  there  is  a  release  to 

Suffolk  Institute,  iv.  31.  him    of    the   £l,ioo    paid    on    his 

'•"Her  will,  dated  8th  July,  1639,  will  be  creation  ;  S.P.  1620,  p.  184. 

found      amongst      the      Bodleian  4Cobbetts'  Parliam.  Hist. 

Charters.      (Bodl.  Sufi.   Ch.  1369,  'Suffolk  Institute,  iv.  33. 

and  a  letter  of  hereto  her  son-in-  6 Buried  at  Playford,  i8th  June,  1678. 

law,  John  Hobart,  in  1640,  will  be  *  Will  proved  Nov.  1690. 

found  amongst  the  Tanner  MSS.  in 

the  Bodleian  (Tanner  cclxxxvi.  107, 

Ixix.  108). 


PLAYFORD.  91 

manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son  and  heir,  Sir  Adam  Felton,  3rd  Bart.,  M.P. 
for  Thetford,  1689,  and  for  Orford,  1695.  He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of 
Sir  George  Reresby,  Knt.,  of  Thirby,  Yorkshire,  widow  of  William,  Vise. 
Monson,  of  Castlemain,  Edward  Horner,  and  Sir  Francis  Foljambe,  Bart., 
but  leaving  on  his  death  in  Feb.  1696-7  an  only  daughter  Elizabeth,  married 
to  Robert  Rich,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  Edward  Rich,  Knt.,  of  Mullbarton, 
Norfolk,  the  title  and  this  manor  passed  to  Sir  Adam's  brother,  Sir  Thomas 
Felton,  4th  Bart.,  M.P.  for  Orford,  and  for  Bury  in  the  time  of  Will.  III., 
and  Controller  of  the  Household  to  Queen  Anne  and  the  Prince  Consort. 

He  married  Lady  Elizabeth  Howard,  2nd  daughter  and  coheir  of  James, 
3rd  Earl  of  Suffolk.' 

A  licence  to  Sir  Thomas  Felton  to  enclose  a  way  in  Playford  in  1708 
will  be  found  amongst  the  Harleian  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum.2  He 
died  2nd  March,  1708-9,'  and  was  buried  gth  of  the  same  month  at  Playford, 
leaving  an  only  daughter  Elizabeth,  married  at  Boxstead,  25th  July,  1695, 
to  John  Hervey,  of  Ickworth,  ist  Earl  of  Bristol.  Davy  states  that  on  the 
death  of  Sir  Thomas  Felton  the  manor  passed,  as  did  the  title,  to  his  next 
brother,  Sir  Compton  Felton,  and  that  the  manor  did  not  pass  to  Elizabeth, 
Sir  Thomas's  daughter,  until  Sir  Compton's  death,  i8th  Nov.  1719,  having 
survived  all  his  issue,  namely,  two  sons  and  two  daughters.  However 
this  may  be,  the  manor  did  either  in  1708-9  or  in  1719  vest  in  Elizabeth, 
Sir  Thomas's  daughter,  and  on  her  death,  2nd  May,  1741,  was  held  by  her 
husband,  John  Hervey,  Earl  of  Bristol.  From  this  time  the  manor  has 
descended  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Ickworth,  in  Thingoe  Hundred, 
and  is  now  vested  in  the  Marquis  of  Bristol. 

The  site  of  the  Manor  of  Playford  Hall  is  probably  the  same  as  that  of 
the  manors  mentioned  in  the  Domesday  Survey,  but  the  present  edifice 
was  certainly  not  erected  until  the  i6th  century.  It  has  been  described  as 
a  picturesque  and  curious  hall.  One  date  on  it  is  1589,  but  some  parts  are 
clearly  of  an  earlier  period.  It  is  stated  in  Clarke's  History  of  Ipswich  that 
Sir  George  Felbrigge  built  the  hall,  but  he  gives  no  authority.  Probably 
parts  of  a  building  erected  by  him  may  have  remained,  but  if  so  they  were 
taken  down  during  the  i8th  century.  In  an  account  of  "  Playford  and  the 
Feltons  "  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Suffolk  Institute  in  1864,"  it  is  said : 
"  an  old  man  of  the  name  of  Hustleton,  who  died  about  1840,  informed 
Mrs.  Clarkson  that  he  remembered,  when  a  boy,  a  chapel  being  attached  to 
the  east  of  the  present  dining-room,  completing  the  north  side,  at  right 
angles  to  which  chapel  ran  the  east  side,  corresponding  with  the  present 
west,  so  that  the  present  moat  washed  three  sides  of  the  hall  in  those  days." 
The  hall,  as  it  now  is,  is,  in  fact,  just  one-half  of  what  it  originally  was. 
Old  Hustleton  remembered  the  chapel  "  being  taken  down." 

"  The  last  occupiers  of  the  Feltons  were  two  maiden  ladies,  who  were 
succeeded  at  the  hall  by  a  schoolmaster  as  tenant.  After  his  time 
it  was  reduced  to  its  present  condition  of  a  farmhouse  and  occupied  by  Mr. 
Cutting.  After  him  came  Thomas  Clarkson."  It  is  said5  anciently  to 
have  had  a  drawbridge  on  the  east  and  a  gallery  on  the  south,  and  to  have 
had  four  sides  enclosing  the  court  yard,  but  this  is  very  improbable.  The 
drawbridge  must  have  been  on  the  south  side,  and  the  shape  of  the  house 
a  half  H. 

1  Her  descent  from  Hugh  Capet  is  given  in         s  Will  proved  March,  1709. 

the  Suffolk  Institute,  vol.  iv.  57.  «  Vol.  iv.  18. 

»Harl.  7348;  Docquet  ib.  2263.  'Print  of  Playford  Hall,  Davy. 


92  THE   MANORS   OF   SUFFOLK. 

Lustre  has  been  shed  on  the  hall  by  the  residence  therein  of  the  great 
philanthropist,  Thomas  Clarkson,  so  celebrated  for  his  efforts  on  behalf  of 
the  abolition  of  the  slave  trade. 

Lord  Arthur  Hervey,  in  a  paper  from  which  we  have  already  quoted  in 
the  Proceedings  of  the  Suffolk  Institute,  sympathetically  says :  "Whatever 
good  and  valiant  deeds  may  have  been  done  in  Church  or  State  by  any  of 
the  long  line  of  proprietors  who  sleep  in  the  churchyard  of  Playford,  we 
are  sure  that  none  contributed  more  largely  to  diminish  human  misery,  or 
toiled  with  more  energy  and  determination  to  protect  the  weak  and  redress 
oppression  and  wrong,  than  he  (Clarkson)  did.  And  if  we  value  human 
energy  for  the  benefits  which  it  confers  upon  the  human  race,  and  if  we 
honour  human  exertion  in  proportion  to  its  disinterestedness,  and  if  the 
brightest  memories  linger  around  the  names  of  those  who  have  done  least  for 
themselves  and  most  for  others,  then  assuredly  must  our  sympathies  be  drawn 
out  to  the  utmost  as  we  stand  over  the  grave  of  Clarkson."  There  is  an 
excellent  portrait  of  this  Thomas  Clarkson  from  the  original  by  A.  E.  Chalon, 
R.A.,  engraved  by  C.  Turner,  engraver  in  ordinary  to  His  Majesty.  It  was 
purchased  by  Stephen  Piper,  of  Ipswich. 

Arms  of  SAMPSON  :  Gules,  a  cross  Argent,  billets  Sable.  Of  FELTON  : 
Gules,  two  lions  passant  Ermine,  crowned  Or. 

MEER  MANOR  OF  MERE  HALL  MANOR. 

This  manor  belonged  in  the  time  of  Edw.  II.  to  John  de  Holbroke, 
and  from  him  till  the  time  of  Robert  Broke,  who  succeeded  his  father,  Sir 
Richard,  in  1529,  the  manor  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of 
Broke  Hall,  Nacton,  in  this  Hundred.1 

A  little  later  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  Arthur  Rushe,  who  died 
seised  of  it  2nd  July,  1537,"  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Anthony 
Rushe,3  who  sold  the  same  to  Thomas  Seckford  in  I558.4 

A  few  years  later  the  manor  had  passed  to  Sir  Anthony  Felton,  who 
held  the  main  manor,  for  it  formed  part  of  the  dower  of  Elizabeth,  his 
widow,  in  1613,  from  which  period  the  manor  has  followed  the  main  manor 
in  a  like  course  of  descent,  and  is  now  vested  in  the  Marquess  of  Bristol. 

LEES  MANOR. 

We  find  this  lordship  vested  in  Margery  Sampson,  who  died  in  1439, 
when  it  passed  to  Thomas  Sampson,  who  died  in  1483,'  from  which  time  it 
has  descended  in  the  same  course  as  the  main  manor,  and  is  now  vested  in 
the  present  Marquis  of  Bristol. 


1  See  Holbrook Manor, inSamford  Hundred:         SI.P.M.,  29  Hen.  VIII.  66. 
3 Not  1548,  as  stated  inaccountofSomerton         4Finc,  Mich.  6  Mary  I. 
Manor,  in  Babergh  Hundred.  5 1.P.M.,  I  Rich.  III.  35. 


RUSHMERE  ST.  ANDREW.  93 

RUSHMERE  ST.  ANDREW. 

N  Saxon  times  there  were  two  manors  in  this  place.  The  first, 
belonging  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor, 
consisted  of  80  acres  of  land,  5  of  meadow,  and  i  ploughteam, 
which  had  become  reduced  to  half  a  team  at  the  time  of  the 
Survey.  In  Saxon  times  it  was  valued  at  205.,  but  by  the 
time  of  the  Survey  the  value  was  reduced  to  half.  It  was 
held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  Turchil,  a  freeman  under 
commendation  half  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely  and  half  to  Gurth.  The  Abbot  of 
Ely  also  held  a  freeman  named  Edric  under  the  same  commendation  as  the 
others  above-named,  with  20  acres,  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow  in  Saxon  times, 
when  there  was  a  ploughteam  attached  to  it.  The  value  was  then  ios., 
but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  there  was  but  half  a  team,  and  the  value  had 
come  down  to  6s.  The  abbot  also  had  here  five  freemen  under  commenda- 
tion to  Turchil,  holding  15  acres,  and  having  in  Saxon  days  half  a  ploughteam, 
when  the  value  was  30^.,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey,  when  the  ploughteam 
had  disappeared,  valued  at  35.  The  abbot  had  also  a  freeman  named  Leuric, 
under  commendation,  with  40  acres,  7  bordars,  and  a  ploughteam  and  a 
half,  valued  at  ios.' 

The  second  manor  belonged  to  Robert  Malet,  and  consisted  of  60  acres 
and  i  ploughteam,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  5  acres  of  meadow,  valued 
at  2os.  It  was  held  by  Ulviet,  a  freeman  under  Gurth  in  the  time  of  the 
Confessor,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  by  Humfrey  in  demesne.  In 
the  same  holding  were  4  acres,  valued  at  i6d.,  held  by  two  freemen  under 
him.  This  also  Humfrey  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  held  of  Robert  Malet. 

Robert  Malet  also  held  here  30  acres  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  formerly 
having  i  ploughteam,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  none,  valued  at  55. 
This  had  in  Saxon  times  been  held  by  2  socmen  under  Godwin  ;  Robert 
Malet,  further  held  44  acres  and  i  bordar,  formerly  having  2  ploughteams, 
but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  i  only,  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at 
ios.  In  the  Confessor's  time  these  had  been  held  by  three  freemen  under 
commendation  to  Edric,  namely,  Leurin,  Turchil,  and  Aluric.  Of  this  hold- 
ing the  Abbot  of  Ely  had  the  soc  and  sac.2 

Another  small  holding  was  that  of  Roger  de  Poictou,  consisting  of  6 
acres,  valued  at  izd.,  and  held  of  him  by  Hunebot.3 

Another  holding  mentioned  in  the  Great  Survey  was  that  of  Hervey 
of  Bourges,  consisting  of  30  acres,  i  ploughteam  and  an  acre  of  meadow, 
valued  at  ios.  The  Survey  says,  "  It  is  8  quarantenes  long  and  7  broad, 
and  pays  i6d.  in  a  gelt."  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  a  freeman  Brown- 
win,  under  commendation  to  Gurth.4  There  was  one  holding  of  the  King 
kept  by  Robert  Bigot,  which  consisted  of  9  freemen  with  31  acres,  formerly 
having  i  ploughteam,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  half  a  team  only.  The 
value  had  been  55.,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  was  fixed  at  3s.5  The 
last  holding  was  that  of  Earl  Alan,  and  consisted  of  31  acres  and  a  plough- 
team,  valued  at  55.  It  had  been  held  by  n  freemen  under  commendation 
to  Gurth  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor.  And  in  the  same  holding  were  6 
acres  valued  at  12^.,  and  one  church  estate  of  20  acres,  valued  at  40^.' 

'Dom.  ii.  3066.  4Dom.  ii.  442. 

*Dom.  ii.  3156.  s  Dom.  ii.  2326.  : 

3  Dom.  ii.  3476.  6Dom.  ii.  293. 


THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 


There  are  three  entries  in  the  Survey  under  the  head  Bixley,  which  is 
in  Rushmere.  One  was  amongst  the  possessions  of  Earl  Alan.  It  con- 
sisted of  a  socman  with  5  acres,  valued  at  I2d.,  a  freeman  in  the  Confessor's 
time,  under  commendation  to  Ralph  the  Staller,  with  20  acres,  I  plough- 
team  and  i  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  45.,  and  a  freeman  with  20  acres  in 
Rushmere,  included  in  the  above  valuation.1  The  second  was  4  acres, 
valued  at  8d.,  held  by  the  Abbot  of  Ely,2  and  the  third  was  the  holding  in 
demesne  of  Hugh  de  Montfort  of  29  acres,  i  ploughteam,  and  i  acre  of 
meadow  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor,  held  by  three  freemen  under  com- 
mendation to  Goodmund.  The  holding  was  included  in  the  valuation  of 
Brithtolston  (?).3 

RUSHMERE  OR  RUSHMERE  HALL  MANOR. 

This  was  held  by  Turchil,  a  freeman  in  Saxon  times,  being  half  under 
protection  of  the  Abbot  of  Ely  and  half  under  that  of  Gurth,  and  at  the 
time  of  the  Survey  belonged  to  the  abbot.  At  the  opening  of  the  thirteenth 
century — in  1203 — the  manor  was  the  lordship  of  William  de  Freney,  and 
passed  from  him  to  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  de  Freney,  and  from  him  to  his 
son  and  heir,  William  de  Freney. 

Davy  says  that  in  1316  the  manor  was  vested  in  John  de  Holbroke, 
Knt.,  and  that  in  that  year  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  Hol- 
broke ;  but  this  does  not  seem  to  have  been  the  case,  for  at  this  time  the  manor 
appears  to  have  been  vested  in  Richard  Lenne,  of  Ipswich,  who  had  a  grant 
of  free  warren  here  in  I3I4-4  See  an  extent  of  the  manor  in  the  inquisition 
quod  damnum,  Rich.  "  Len  "  of  Ipswich  in  I3i6.5 

A  fine  of  the  manor  was  levied  in  1326  by  this  Richard  Lenne  and 
Emma  his  wife  against  Giles  de  Wachesham  and  John  atte  Northstrete, 
chaplain;6  and  in  1344  by  Gilbert  de  Yarewell,  parson  of  Blofield 
Church,  Salomon,  parson  of  Catston  Church,  William  de  Burgh,  and 
William  de  Felmyngham  against  John  de  Catston  and  Katherine 
his  wife.7  Probably  the  manor  did  vest  later  in  Sir  Thomas  de 
Holbroke,  who  died  in  1360,  when  it  passed  to  John  de  Holbroke, 
who  died  in  1376,  when  it  passed  to  his  daughter  and  heir,  Margery, 
married  to  John,  son  of  Hugh  Fastolf,  who  released  all  his  interest 
in  the  manor  to  Sir  George  de  Felbrigg,  to  whom  a  grant  of  free  warren 
was  made  here  in  1384."  After  this  the  manor  passed  in  the  same  line  of 
descent  as  the  Manor  of  Playford,  in  this  Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  the 
present  Marquis  of  Bristol.  The  manor  is  mentioned  in  the  inquisition 
•of  Thomas  Sampson,9  and  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Sir  Richard  Broke, 
who  died  6th  May,  1529,  leaving  Robert  his  son  and  heir,10  and  of  Thomas 
Felton,  who  died  loth  Feb.  1533,  leaving  Thomas  his  son  and  heir."  The 
Compotus  Rolls  of  the  Manor,  1444  to  1453,  will  be  found  amongst  the 
Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.1" 

BIXLEY  MANOR. 

In  1555  Francis  Noone  conveyed  the  land,  &c.,  called  Bixley  to  John 
Dameron,  yeoman,  who  seems  to  have  held  as  a  manor.  In  1602  his  widow, 


1  Dom.  ii.  293. 

•Dom.  ii.  386*. 

»  Dom.  ii.  4066. 

4  Chart.  Rolls,  8  Edw.  II.  17. 

5 1.Q.D.,  lo  Edw.  152. 

•Feet  of  Fines,  20  Edw.  II.  7. 


'Feet  of  Fines,  18  Edw.  III.  12. 
"Chart.  Rolls,  7  and  8  Rich.  II.  8. 
•I.P.M.,  i  Rich.  III.  35- 
'"I.P.M.,  2  Edw.  VI.  60. 
"  I.P.M.  26  Hen.  VIII.  3. 
"Add.  Ch.  10208-10214. 


RUSHMERE  ST.    ANDREW.  95 

Katherine  Dameron,  and  his  sons, Thomas  and  John  Dameron,  conveyed  the 
estate  to  Tobias  Blosse,  of  Ipswich,  mercer,  who  sold  the  same  in  1611  to 
Robert  Broke,  of  Nacton,  on  whose  death  in  1626  it  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Sir  Richard  Broke,  Knt.,  who  died  in  1639. 

After  this  the  manor  descended  in  the  same   course  as  Brokes  Hall 
Manor,  in  Nacton,  in  this  Hundred,  but  seems  to  have  become  extinguished. 


96  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

TRIMLEY. 

N  Saxon  times  there  were  two  manors  here.  One  consisted 
of  50  acres,  3  bordars,  i  ploughteam,  and  2  acres  of  meadow, 
which  had  been  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  Goodrich, 
under  commendation  to  Norman.  At  the  time  of  the 
Survey  this  manor  was  held  of  Roger  Bigot  by  Thorold, 
and  a  freeman,  Leverich,  held  4  acres  under  "him.  The 
manor  rendered  355.  There  was  also  a  church,  with  20  acres, 
valued  at  40^.  The  township  was  4  quarentenes  long  and  3  broad,  and 
paid  in  a  gelt  ^d.  Another  church  is  mentioned,  with  8  acres,  valued  at  8d. 
Others  held  land  therein.  Roger  Bigot  also  had  here  6  acres  and  half  a 
ploughteam,  valued  at  i2d.,  formerly  held  by  three  freemen,  Gooday, 
Hildyard,  and  Derstan,  under  commendation  to  Norman,  and  Derstan 
under  commendation  to  Wihtmar.  The  said  Wihtmar  held  over  them.' 

The  second  manor  consisted  of  40  acres,  which  in  the  Confessor's  time 
was  held  by  a  freeman  named  Lewric,  under  the  Abbot  of  Ely's  commenda- 
tion. There  was  i  ploughteam,  also  3  bordars,  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  and 
a  freeman  under  him  with  4  acres,  the  whole  valued  at  205.  This  manor 
Roger  Bigot  held  of  the  King,  but  the  abbot  proved  a  better  title,  and 
Roger  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  held  of  the  Abbot  of  Ely.2 

The  last  holding  cited  in  the  Survey  consisted  of  2  acres,  valued  at  4^., 
and  belonged  to  Ranulf,  brother  of  Ilger.3 

GRIMSTON  HALL  WITH  MORSTON  MANOR. 

This  was  the  estate  of  Ralph  de  Tourlaville  in  the  time  of  William 
the  Conqueror.  The  Great  Survey  says :  "  In  Grimeston  the  said  Ralph  de 
Tour  la  ville  holds  a  freeman  formerly  under  Norman,  with  40  acres,  called 
Blackman.  And  under  him  7  bordars,  i  ploughteam,  2  acres  of  meadow, 
valued  at  IDS.  And  there  are  3  men  in  the  same  township  under  com- 
mendation to  Ralph  with  30  acres,  Herman  and  Kenrick  and  Woolfer. 
And  they  have  a  ploughteam  and  a  half,  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow. 
Valued  at  55.  It  is  3  quarentenes  long  and  3  broad,  and  in  a  gelt  pays 
jd.  Others  hold  land  therein."  Roger  Bigot  was  the  Domesday  tenant 
in  chief/  Eudo,  son  of  Nigel,  also  held  of  Robert,  Earl  of  Moretaigne,  in 
Grimston,  14  acres  with  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  45.  8^.,  of  which  the 
Abbot  of  Ely  had  the  soc.  This  small  estate  had  formerly  been  held  by 
2  freemen,  Aluric  under  commendation  to  Harold,  and  Brithnoth  under 
commendation  to  Robert  Malet's  predecessor,  and  valued  at  40^. 3 

In  the  time  of  Edw.  I.  this  manor  was  the  lordship  of  Sir  Godfrey  de 
Bellomonte,  Knt.,  who  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here  in  I292,6  and  died 
in  1293  without  issue,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  widow,  Cecily  de 
Ferrariis,7  and  the  following  year  to  Sir  John  de  Bellomonte,  brother  of 
Sir  Godfrey,  who  then  paid  his  relief. 

He  left  by  Alice  his  wife  a  son  and  heir,  Richard  de  Bellomonte ;  but 
in  1307  Alice,  widow  of  Sir  John  de  Bellomonte,  conveyed  by  fine  the  manor 
to  Walter  de  Langton,  Bishop  of  Lichfield  and  Coventry,  excepting,  however, 
her  life  interest,  in  which  fine  her  son  Richard  concurred.  The  bishop 
died  in  1321,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  sister  and  heir,  married  to 

'Dom.  11.341.  JDom.  ii.  292. 

*Dom.  ii.  3856.  'Chart  Rolls,  20  Edw.  I.  33. 

JDom.  ii.  4236.  i  Extent,  I.P.M.,  21  Edw.  I.  49. 

4Dom.  ii.  3416.  «Feet  of  Fines,  35  Edw.  I.  23. 


TRIMLEY.  97 

Edmund  Peverel.  It  passed  later  to  Edmund  Peverel  and  Elizabeth  his 
wife,'  and  to  their  son,  John  Peverel  in  1331. 

He  died  in  1362,  but  the  manor  seems  in  his  lifetime  to  have  been 
acquired  by  his  sister  Margaret,  for  in  1353  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  this 
manor,  and  the  Manors  of  Aspall  and  Debenham,  by  William  de  la  Pole, 
Margaret's  husband,  and  the  said  Margaret,  against  John  de  Insula,  Knt., 
Hugh  de  Bray,  Warm,  son  of  Warin  de  Bassyngbourn,  Knt.,  William  de  la 
Dale,  Richard  de  Bayous,  Knt.,  William  de  Coin,  Knt.,  William  de  Playford, 
parson  of  the  church  of  Botun,  Ralph  de  Hynton,  John  de  Opton,  and 
Henry  de  Heweny.2  This  also  included  the  advowson  of  the  churches  of 
Trimley  and  Althyston. 

There  were  two  other  fines  levied  of  the  manor  to  which  Sir  William 
de  la  Pole  and  Margaret  his  wife  were  parties  in  1355  and  1358.  The 
first  was  by  Hugh  de  Ulseby,  pit.,  and  Sir  William  de  la  Pole,  jun.,  and 
Margaret  his  wife,  deforciants,3  and  the  second  by  Sir  William  de  la  Pole  and 
John  his  son  against  John,  son  of  William  de  Moubray  and  William  de 
Wyleby,  parson,  and  related  not  only  to  this  manor,  but  also  to  the  advow- 
sons  of  the  churches  of  Trimley  St.  Martin  and  Alteston.4 

The  manor  passed  from  Margaret  and  her  husband,  Sir  William  de  la 
Pole,  jun.,  Knt.,  to  their  son  and  heir,  Sir  John  de  la  Pole,  Knt.  It  was 
then  acquired  by  John  Candish,  or  Cavendish,  of  London,  and  of  Grimston 
Hall.  Jacob,  in  his  account  of  the  Cavendish  family,  states  that  Roger 
de  Gernon,  son  of  Geoffrey  de  Gernon,  of  Moorhall,  co.  Derby,  the  son  of 
Sir  William  de  Gernon,  who  died  in  1259, tne  son  °f  Ralph,  who  died  1248, 
the  son  of  Ralph,  son  of  Matthew,  son  of  Robert  de  Gernon,  resided  at 
Grimston  Hall,  and  married  the  daughter  of  John  Potton  or  Potkins,  lord 
of  Cavendish,  and  his  children,  in  compliment  to  their  mother,  the  heir  of 
that  lordship,  as  was  usual  in  those  days,  assumed  the  name  and  arms  of 
Cavendish.  We  do  not  find  any  particulars  of  the  purchase  of  the  manor 
by  this  Roger  de  Gernon,  but  it  was  certainly  vested  in  his  son  and  heir, 
John  Cavendish,  and  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Roger  Cavendish.  This 
Roger,  with  Roger  Wolferston,  Clement.  Spice,  and  William  Rulle,  levied  a 
fine  of  the  manor  against  Robert  Hamenhale  and  Joan  his  wife  in  1389. 5 

Under  the  will  of  Roger  Cavendish6  dated  Jan.  1404-5,  the  manor  was 
left  to  feoffees  for  three  years  after  testator's  demise  for  them  to  receive 
the  profits  and  lay  out  the  same  in  the  building  of  a  chapel  to  the  honour  of 
the  Holy  Trinity  on  the  left  side  of  the  Church  of  St.  Martin  in  Trimley, 
and  in  order  that  they  might  grant  an  annual  rent  of  £7.  6s.  8^.,  issuing  out 
of  the  said  Manor  of  Grymston  to  be  amortised  to  the  said  chapel,  i.e.,  10 
marks  to  a  chaplain  there  to  sing  perpetually,  and  to  perform  divine 
service  in  honour  of  the  Trinity,  and  for  the  souls  of  John,  the  testator's 
father,  Christian,  his  mother,  Stephen  Candish,  William  Rule,  Thomas,  and 
all  other  his  well-wishers,  and  135.  4^.  for  the  annual  repair  of  this  chapel. 

The  manor  passed  to  Roger's  great-nephew,  Austin  Candish  or  Caven- 
dish, son  of  Thomas  Cavendish  and  Agnes  his  wife,  which  Thomas  was  son 
of  John,  brother  of  Roger,  and  of  Elizabeth,  John's  wife.  Austin  Cavendish 
made  his  will  dated  I7th  June,  1467,  and  died  in  1468,  when  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Richard  Cavendish.  He  brought  a  Chancery 
suit  against  Sir  John  Wyngfeld,  Knt.,  William  Brandon,  Knt.,  John  Sulyard, 

1 I.P.M.,  5  Edw.  III.  46  (where  the  manor  «Feet  of  Fines,  31  and  32  Edw.  III.  9. 

is  stated  to  be  held  of  Dovercourt).  'Feet  of  Fines,  13  Rich.  II.  19. 

a  Feet  of  Fines,  27  Edw.  III.  4.  6  For  Cavendish  family.see  Overhall  Manor, 
'Feet  of  Fines,  29  Edw.  III.  4.  in  Cavendish,  in  Babergh  Hundred. 

N 


98  THE   MANORS    OF   SUFFOLK. 

and  Edward  Grymston,  as  to  this  manor,  and  the  advowsons  of  the  Churches 
of  St.  Martin  (Trimley),  and  St.  John  of  Alneston,  and  lands  in  Trimley 
St.  Mary,  and  St.  Martin,  Walton,  Felixstowe,  Kirketon,  and  Falkenham.1 
Sir  Richard  Cavendish  died  seised  7th  Jan.  1515,  when  the  manor  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Richard  Cavendish.1 

Amongst  the  Star  Chamber  Proceedings  of  the  time  of  Hen.  VIII.,  we 
find  an  action  relating  to  a  forcible  entry  into  a  "  gold-course,"  felling  of 
trees,  &c.,  in  Trimley,  by  Richard  Caundysshe  against  Richard  Lambe 
and  others  ;J  and  an  action  as  to  land  at  Trimley  between  John  Lambe  and 
the  said  Richard  "Candysshe."'      This  last  Sir  Richard  Cavendish  was 
Governor  of  Blackness,  and  died  12th  March,  1554,'  when  the  manor  passed 
in  jointure  to  his  widow  Beatrice,  and  subsequently  to  their  son  and  heir, 
William  Cavendish,  on  whose  death  in  1572  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
William  Cavendish,  who  died  without  issue,  and  was  succeeded  by  his 
brother  and  heir,  Thomas  Cavendish,  the  celebrated  circumnavigator,  of 
whom  Fuller,  in  his  History  of  the  Worthies  of  England,  says :  "  Thomas 
Cavendish,  of  Trimley,  in  this  County,  Esquire,  in  pursuance  of  his  generous 
inclination  to  make  foreign  discoveries  for  the  use  and  honour  of  his  nation, 
on  his  own  cost  victualled  and  furnished  three  ships  (the  least  of  fleets)  as 
followeth  :    i,  The  Desire,  admiral,  of  120  tons ;    2,  The   Content,  vice- 
admiral,  of  60  tons  ;   3,  The  Hugh-Gallant,  rear-admiral,  of  40  tons.     All 
three  managed  by  123  persons,  with  which  he  set  sail  from  Plymouth  the 
2ist  of  July,  1586.     So  prosperous  their  winds,  that  by  the  26th  of  August 
they  had  gone  nine  hundred  and  thirty  leagues  to  the  south  of  Africa.    Then 
bending  their  course  south-west  January  the  7th,  they  entered  the  mouth 
of  the  Megellan  Straits  ;  straits  indeed,  not  only  for  the  narrow  passage,  but 
many  miseries  of  hunger  and  cold  which  mariners  must  encounter  therein. 
Here  Mr.  Cavendish  named  a  town  Port  Famine  ;  and  may  never  distressed 
seaman  be  necessitated  to  land  there  !     It  seems  the  Spaniards  had  a 
design  so  to  fortify  these  straits  in  places  of  advantage,  as  to  engross  the 
passage,  that  none  save  themselves  should  enter  the  southern  sea.     But 
God,  the  promoter  of  the  public  good,  destroyed  their  intended  monopoly, 
sending  such  a  mortality  amongst  their  men  that  scarce  five  of  five  hundred 
did  survive. 

"  On  the  24*  of  February  they  entered  the  South  Sea,  and  frequently 
landed  as  they  saw  occasion.  Many  their  conflicts  with  the  natives,  more 
with  the  Spaniards  ;  coming  off  gainers  in  most  and  savers  in  all  encounters, 
that  alone  at  Quintero  excepted,  April  ist,  1587,  when  they  lost  twelve 
men  of  good  account,  which  was  the  cause  that  the  June  following  they 
purposely  sunk  the  rear-admiral,  for  want  of  men  to  manage  her. 

"  Amongst  the  many  prizes  he  took  in  his  passage,  the  St.  Anne  was 
the  most  considerable,  being  the  Spanish  Admiral  of  the  Southern  sea,  of 
seven  hundred  tons.  'However,  our  Cavendish  boarded  her,  with  his 
little  ship  (a  chicken  of  the  game  will  adventure  on  a  greater  fowl,  and 
leap  where  he  cannot  reach),  and  mastered  her,  though  an  hundred  and 
ninety  persons  therein.  There  were  in  the  ship  an  hundred  and  two  and 
twenty  thousand  pezos  (each  worth  eight  shillings)  of  gold,  the  rest  of  the 
lading  being  silks,  satins,  musk  and  other  rich  commodities.  Mr.  Caven- 
dish's mercy  after,  equalled  his  valour  in  the  fight,  landing  the  Spaniards  on 
the  shore,  and  leaving  them  plentiful  provisions. 

1  E.P.P.,  Bundle  50,  212.  « Ib.  203,  204. 

» I.P.M.,  9  Hen.  VIII.  90.  t  I.P.M.,  2  Mary,  95. 

'Star  C.P.,  Hen.  VIII.,  vol.  8,  200-202. 


TRIMLEY.  99 

"  Surrounding  the  East  Indies  and  returning  for  England  the  ship 
called  the  Content  did  not  answer  her  name,  whose  men  took  all  occasion 
to  be  mutinous,  and  stayed  behind  in  a  road,  with  Stephen  Hare,  their 
master,  and  Mr.  Cavendish  saw  her  not  after.  But  he,  who  went  forth  with 
a  fleet,  came  home  with  a  ship,  and  safely  landed  in  Plymouth,  Sept.  gth,  1588. 
Amongst  his  men  the  three  most  remarkable  were  :  Mr.  John  Way,  their 
preacher  ;  Mr.  Thomas  Fuller,  of  Ipswich,  their  pilot ;  and  Mr.  Francis 
Pretty,  of  Eyke,  in  this  county,  who  wrote  the  whole  history  of  their  voyage. 

"  Thus  having  circumnavigated  the  whole  earth,  let  his  ship  no  longer 
be  termed  The  Desire,  but  The  Performance.  He  was  the  third  man  and 
second  Englishman  of  such  universal  undertakings. 

"  Not  so  successful  his  next  and  last  voyage,  begun  the  26th  of  August, 
1591,  when  he  set  sail  with  a  fleet  from  Plymouth,  and  coming  in  the  Megellan 
Straits,  near  a  place  by  him  formerly  named  Port  Desire,  he  was,  the  Novem- 
ber following,  casually  severed  from  his  company,  not  seen  or  heard  of 
afterwards.  Pity  so  illustrious  a  life  should  have  so  obscure  a  death.  But 
all  things  must  be  as  Being  itself  will  have  them  to  be."1 

Thomas  Cavendish  is  supposed  to  have  perished  in  1592,  and  he  left 
no  issue.  We  meet  with  two  fines  of  the  manor  levied  against  Thomas 
Cavendish,  one  in  1585,  and  the  other  in  1586,  both  by  Henry  Seckford  and 
others,  and  no  doubt  on  the  occasion  of  some  settlement  of  the  manor.8 

In  1591  the  manor  was  acquired  by  Charles  Cornwallis  from  the  said 
Thomas  Cavendish  just  prior  to  his  last  and  fatal  voyage,3  and  we  find  it 
included  with  the  Manors  of  Haspley  and  Newbourne  and  the  advowson 
of  the  church  of  Newbourne  in  the  settlement  dated  24th  Sept.  36  Eliz. 
[1594],  made  by  Charles  Cornwallis,  of  Trimley  St.  Martin,  on  the  marriage  of 
his  son  William  with  Katherine,  daughter  of  Sir  Phillipp  Parker,  of  Erwar- 
ton.  In  1597  the  manor  was  acquired  by  Robert  Barker,  of  Ipswich,  from 
Charles  Cornwallis  and  his  trustees,4  and  was  confirmed  to  him  in  perpetuity 
the  same  year.5  Amongst  the  Add.  Ch.  in  the  British  Museum  will  be  found 
a  defeasance  of  bond  between  the  said  Charles  Cornwalleys  described  as  of 
Norwich,  and  William  his  son,  and  the  said  Robert  Barker  on  a  bond  of 
the  latter  on  sale  of  this  manor,  Moston,  and  Stratton  Hall  Manors, 
I5th  Feb.  T.^.6 

There  is  an  old  deed  of  Robert  Barker  in  1601  amongst  the  Harleian 
MSS.  in  the  British  Museum.7  Robert  Barker  removed  to  Grimston  Hall, 
which  is  about  8  miles  from  Ipswich.  He  was  made  a  Knight  of  the  Bath 
at  the  coronation  of  James  I.  in  1603,  and  dying  in  1618  was  succeeded  by 
his  eldest  son  John,  by  his  first  wife,  Judith,  daughter  of  George  Stoddard, 
of  Mettingham, in  Kent.  John  Barker  was  advanced  to  the  dignity  of  a 
baronet,  ijth  March,  1621." 

From  this  time  to  the  death  of  John  Fytch  Barker,  7th  Bart., without 
issue  in  1766  the  devolution  of  the  manor  is  identical  with  that  of  Offton 
Monks,  in  Of  ton,  in  Bosmere  and  Claydon  Hundred. 

Sir  John  Fytch  Barker,  7th  and  last  Bart.,  who  died  3rd  Jan.  1766, 
left  the  manor  by  will,  dated  soth  Dec.  1762  (pr.  26th  Jan.  1766)  in 

'Accounts  of  Thomas  Cavendish  will  be  'Fine,  Hil.  27  Eliz.;  Easter,  28  Eliz. 

found  in  Locke's  History  of  Navi-  3Fine,  Trin.  33  Eliz. 

gation,  and  in  the  Harwich  Guide,  4Fine,  Hil.  39  Eliz. 

1808,  which  last  account  was  re-  5S.P.  1597,  427. 

printed    in    the    Gent.    Mag.    for  6Add.  Ch.  10238. 

1811,    pt.   ii.    p.     606.      See    also  7Harl.  4712. 

D.N.B.  vol.  ix.  358.  8D.K.R.  47,  App.  p.  129  ;  1622,  S.P.  356. 


ioo  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

the  events  which  happened  to  his  widow  for  life,  with  remainder  to 
George  Richard  Savage  Nassau.  He  served  the  office  of  High  Sheriff 
for  the  county  in  1805,  and  died  at  his  London  residence  in  Charles 
Street,  Berkeley  Square,  i8th  Aug.  1823,'  unmarried,  leaving  the 
manor,  with  the  estates,  by  his  will  dated  gth  Feb.  1819  (pr.  23rd 
March,  1824)  to  his  half-brother,  William  Henry  Nassau,  Earl  of  Roch- 
ford,  from  which  time  to  the  time  of  the  I2th  Duke  of  Hamilton, 
the  manor  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Easton.in  Loes  Hun- 
dred. The  I2th  Duke  of  Hamilton  about  1865  sold  the  manor  to  Col. 
George  Tomline,  and  it  has  since  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of 
Bacton,  in  Hartismere  Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  Capt.  E.  G.  Pretyman, 
D.L.,  of  Orwell  Park. 

Acquittance  for  fines  for  this  manor  and  for  the  advowson  will  be  found 
amongst  the  Cotton  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum/  and  a  confirmation  of 
status  in  Grimston  and  "  Moston  "  Hall  Manors  in  1459  will  be  found  amongst 
the  Add.  Ch.  in  the  same  depository.3 

All  that  remains  of  Grimston  Hall  are  the  large  ponds  on  the  side  of  the 
present  house,  which  fall  in  a  regular  series  down  the  valley  towards  the 
river,  and  one  of  the  Ilexes  mentioned  by  Kirby  and  supposed  to  have  been 
planted  by  the  celebrated  navigator,  Thomas  Cavendish.  In  1829  it  was 
described  as  being  "in  a  state  of  decay,  one  side  certainly  dead,  and  that 
probably  still  alive  showing  great  weakness." 

MARSTON  OR  MOSTON  HALL  MANOR. 

This  manor  arose  out  of  various  small  holdings.  First,  50  acres  men- 
tionedinthe  Domesday  Survey  as  held  in  Saxon  times  by  three  freemen  under 
commendation  to  Norman,  namely,  by  Goodman,  Leofson,  and  Goddua, 
but  two  of  these  were  half  under  Edric.  With  this  holding  were  a  villein, 
3  bordars,  a  ploughteam  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  all  valued  at  8s. 
Roger  Bigot  was  the  Domesday  tenant  in  chief.  The  Survey  says :  "  It  is 
5  quarentenes  long  and  2  broad,  and  pays  4^.  in  a  gelt."  This  could  not, 
however,  have  referred  to  this  small  holding  alone.4  Also  William  of  the 
Forest  held  of  Roger  Bigot  20  acres  heie  with  a  bordar,  a  ploughteam,  and 
half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  6s.,  which  had  in  the  Confessor's  time 
been  held  by  a  freeman  Brightmar  under  commendation  to  Norman.5 

Ranulf,  brother  of  Ilger,  also  held  here  4  acres  which  had  belonged  to  a 
freeman  under  commendation  to  Brismer  ;  and  also  10  acres  valued  at  2s., 
which  had  been  held  formerly  by  a  freewoman  Ulveva  under  commendation 
to  Brictmar,  with  half  a  ploughteam.6  Robert  Malet  held  of  the  Abbot  of 
Ely  5  acres  valued  at  16^.,  which  had  in  the  Confessor's  time  been  held  by  a 
freeman  Woollett  under  commendation  to  the  abbot.7 . 

Robert,  Earl  of  Moretaigne,  also  had  50  acres  which  had  been  held  by 
5  freemen,  Godwin,  Aluric  the  priest's  man,  Woolver,  and  Brihtric,  the  men 
of  Roger  Bigot's  predecessor  in  title,  and  Ulwin,  the  man  of  Robert  Malet's 
predecessor,  and  Goodrich,  Goodman's  man,  who  was  Roger  Bigot's  pre- 
decessor. Formerly  there  had  been  with  the  holding  a  ploughteam  and  a 
half,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  this  seems  to  have  disappeared,  but 

'Sec  an  account  of  him  in  Gent. Mag.  for  «Dom.  ii.  3406,  3426. 

1823,  pt.  ii.  p.  178.  5/6. 

*  Cott.  xxvii.  152.  6Dom.  ii.  4236. 

J  Add.  Ch.  10215.  >  Dom.  ii.  3856. 


TRIMLEY.  ioi 

there  was  then  an  acre  and  a  half  of  meadow.     The  earlier  valuation  was 
ios.,  and  the  Norman  estimate  175.' 

This  manor  vested  in  John  Cavendish  of  Grimston  Hall,  and  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  Roger  Cavendish,  whose  will  is  dated  1405.  It  has  ever 
since  devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  manor  of  Grimston  Hall,  and  is  now 
vested  in  Capt.  E.  G.  Pretyman,  D.L.,  of  Orwell  Park. 

CAPEL  OR  CAPEL  HALL  MANOR. 

The  first  person  holding  this  manor  of  which  we  find  any  record  is  Sir 
William  Ambervil. 

In  1464  William  Owden  or  Ouband  paid  a  relief  in  respect  of  it  to 
Framlingham  Castle,  and  in  the  time  of  King  Hen.  VIII.  it  was  vested  in 
James  Hobart,  of  Loddon,  who  died  in  1516,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Sir  Walter  Hobart.  He  died  in  J-538,2  and  in  1544  we  find  the  manor 
in  Henry  Hobart,  against  whom  a  fine  of  it  was  levied  this  year  by  Nicholas 
Rokewode.3  This  Henry  died  in  1561.  The  manor  then  vested  in  John 
Dryver,  who  sold  it  to  Thomas  Bennett,  against  whom  Dryver's  widow, 
by  an  action  in  the  Common  Bench,  recovered  her  dower  out  of  the  same. 
Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  is  an 
action  by  this  Thomas  Bennett  against  Charles  Cornwallis  concerning  deeds 
&c.,  relating  to  the  Manor  of  Capel  Hall,  when  it  was  contended  that  the 
premises  formed  part  of  the  Manor  of  Grimston  Hall. 4 

In  1609  the  manor  vested  in  Thomas  Lye,  who  died  in  1639,  when  it 
passed  to  his  brother  and  heir,  Joseph  Lye. 

Later  we  find  the  manor  in  Miles  Edgar,5  of  Eye,  from  whom  it  passed 
in  1676  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry  Edgar,  who  by  will  dated  in  1705  devised 
it  to  Susan  Edgar,  his  daughter,  who  married  Robert  Yaxlee,  and  died  in 
1734,  being  buried  at  Eye. 

STRATTON  HALL  MANOR  CUM  SEABRIDGE. 

Stratton  Hall  was  for  a  long  period  an  extra-parochial  farm  and  estate, 
comprising  195  acres  of  water  and  1,239  acres  of  land,  generally  returned 
with  Trimley  St.  Martin's  parish.  Stratton  was  anciently  a  separate 
parish,  and  had  a  lazar  house  and  a  church,  and  the  foundations  of  the 
latter  may  still  be  seen  overgrown  with  trees  and  bushes.  It  is  now  a  civil 
parish.  Stratton  Manor  had  been  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  Woolmer, 
a  freeman  under  Edric  of  Laxfield,  and  consisted  of  a  carucate  of  land,  with 
4  villeins,  3  bordars,  i  ploughteam  in  demesne  and  I  belonging  to  the 
tenants,  wood  sufficient  for  the  support  of  6  hogs,  10  acres  of  meadow,  12 
hogs,  and  80  sheep,  valued  at  205.  The  value  by  the  time  of  the  Survey 
had  risen  to  305.,  but  2  of  the  serfs  and  half  of  the  ploughteam  belonging 
to  the  tenants  had  disappeared.  In  the  reign  of  William  the  Conqueror, 
and  before  the  Survey,  12  men  were  added  to  the  manor,  whose  names  were 
Leuric  of  Hemley,  Bruman  of  Burgh,  Goda  of  Struston(P),  Leostan  of 
Falkenham,  Gleeman  of  Levington,  Wihtric  of  Carlwood  (?),  Edwin  the 
Smith,  Aluric  of  Hopewell  (?),  Thuri  of  Culvertston  (?),  Aluric  the  smith's 
son  in  Carlwood  (?),  Orgar  in  Culvertston,  and  Modgeva  of  Colcarr,  all  under 
commendation  to  the  said  Edric  in  the  Confessor's  time.  They  had  87 

'Dom.  ii.  292.  4C.P.  i.  63. 

"See  Manor  of   Oulton,    in  Lothingland         5  Busshes  Manor,  Mcndlesliam,  in  Hartis- 

Hundred.  mere  Hundred. 

3  Fine,  Mich.  36  Hen.  VIII. 


102  THE   MANORS  "OF  SUFFOLK. 

acres  and  a  half,  2  bordars,  2\  ploughteams,  2  acres  of  meadow  and  a  mill  in 
Saxon  times,  valued  at  6os.,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  rendering  505. 
The  above  manor  was  held  by  Bernard  of  London  of  Robert  Malet  as 
Domesday  tenant  in  chief.  R.  de  Glanville  also  held  of  Robert  Malet  here 
24  acres,  half  a  ploughteam,  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  45., 
which  had  been  held  by  a  freeman  Lewin,  son  of  Brown,  under  commenda- 
tion to  the  said  Edric.  Glanville  also  held  under  Malet  an  acre  valued  at 
5<J.,  which  had  been  formerly  held  by  a  half  freeman  Aluric,  also  under 
commendation  to  Edric.' 

Roger  Bigot  also  had  several  estates  in  Stratton  in  or  near  Levington, 
under  the  heads  of  Strattuna.  One  was  of  32  acres  held  as  a  manor,  4 
bordars,  i  ploughteam,  and  i  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  55.,  which  had 
been  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  a  freeman,  Wihtric,  Harold's  man,  also 
38  acres  as  a  manor,  2  bordars,  i  ploughteam,  and  i  acre  of  meadow,  valued 
at  45.,  which  had  formerly  been  held  by  2  freemen  under  commendation 
to  Norman,  Ulf  kettle,  and  another. 

Another  holding  of  Bigot  was  10  acres  and  a  bordar,  and  half  a  plough- 
team,  valued  at  2s.,  which  had  formerly  been  held  by  a  freeman  named 
Goodman,  under  commendation  to  Norman,  and  a  church  with  10  acres, 
valued  at  2s.  These  three  estates  were  all  held  by  William  de  Burnouille, 
under  Roger  Bigot.  The  Survey  says:  "It  "  (probably  the  ancient  parish 
of  Stratton)  "  was  6  quarentenes  long  and  4  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  yd."1 

Sir  Olliver  de  Stratton,  Knt.,  held  this  manor,  and  after  him  Geffrey  de 
Stratton,  whose  daughter  and  heir  Alice  married  Roger  de  Cavendish  about 
1408.  The  manor  seems  to  have  passed  to  Roger  de  Cavendish's  daughter 
Margaret,  who  married  William  Leveney,  and  he  by  deed  dated  1 2th  Sept. 
9  Hen.  VI.  [1421]  granted  the  manor  to  John  Shardlowe  on  his  marriage 
with  Margaret,  daughter  of  the  said  William  Leveney.3  We  next  find  the 
manor  in  Sir  William  Brandon,  Knt.,  from  whom  it  passed  to  his  2nd  son, 
Sir  Thomas  Brandon,  who  sold  it  in  1505  to  Elen  Weldon,  widow,  Hugh 
Weldon,  and  Robert  Weldon,  her  sons,  and  they  by  deed  dated  3rd  July, 
21  Hen.  VII.  [1506]  resold  to  Sir  Thomas  Brandon,4  from  whom  the  manor 
went  to  his  nephew,  Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  who,  by  a  deed 
dated  ist  March,  29  Hen.  VIII.  [1538]  granted  the  same  to  Sir  Richard 
Caundish,  of  Trimley,  in  exchange  for  the  manor  of  Gapton  Harolle,  in 
Bredwell.5  Certainly,  Sir  Richard  Cavendish  died  seised  of  the  manor  I2th 
March,  1534,°  and  from  this  time  to  the  time  of  death  of  Thomas  Cavendish 
without  issue  in  1592,  the  manor  devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor 
of  Grimston  Hall,  in  Trimley. 

A  fine  of  this  manor  was  in  1560  levied  by  William  Cavendish  against 
Richard  Cavendish.7  The  manor  was  included  in  the  settlement  referred  to 
in  the  account  of  Grimston  Hall  made  by  Charles  Cornwallis  on  the  marriage 
of  his  son  William  with  Katherine,  daughter  of  Sir  Phillipp  Parker  in  1574, 
and  was  referred  to  in  the  deed  of  defeasance,  also  mentioned  in  the  account 
of  Grimston  Manor,  and  passed  to  the  Barker  family,  Sir  Robert  Barker, 
Knt.,  dying  seised  of  it  in  1618,  after  which  it  passed  in  the  same  line  of 
devolution  as  the  main  Manor  of  Grimston  Hall  (by  reference  to  Monks 

1  Dom.  ii.  314.  s  Add  Ch.  10225. 

*Dom.  ii.  3406,  3416,  342^.  6I.P.M.,  2  Mary  95. 

JHarl.  536.  35.  7  Fine,  Mil.  2  Eliz. 
4  Harl.  47  A.  47. 


TRIMLEY.  103 

Offton,  in  Bosmere  and  Claydon  Hundred),  and  is  now  vested  in  Capt.  E.  G. 
Pretyman,  D.L.,  of  Orwell  Park. 

There  is  an  action  relating  to  trespass  in  Stratton  Hall  amongst  the 
Early  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Hen.  VI.1 

Amongst  the  Exch.  Depositions  will  be  found  an  action  by  the  Attorney- 
General  against  Charles  Cornwallis,  37  and  38  Eliz.,  relating  to  Commons  of 
this  manor  and  the  Manor  of  Moston,  and  as  to  metes  and  bounds.2 


1  E.C.P.,  20  Hen.  VI.  15,  57.  *  Ipswich  Exch.  Dep.,  37-38  Eliz. 


104  THE   MANORS   OF   SUFFOLK. 

TRIM  LEY   ST.  MARY'S  MANOR,   OR   CANDELENT  OR 
CANDLETT  OR  FOURTHE  MANOR. 

SMALL  property  is  mentioned  under  the  head  "  Can- 
delenta  "  in  the  Domesday  Survey,  as  amongst  the  pos- 
sessions of  Roger  Bigot.  It  was  merely  3  acres,  valued 
at  6d.,  which  had  been  held  by  a  freeman  named  Brihtric. 
The  Survey  says,  "  It  is  a  quarentene  long  and  a  quarentene 
broad,  and  pays  2d.  in  a  gelt."1  The  area  referred  to 
cannot  be  distinctly  stated.  The  lord  of  the  place  in  the 
time  of  William  the  Conqueror  was  no  doubt  Roger  Bigot.  In  the 
first  year  of  William  Rufus,  he  armed  himself  against  the  King,  and 
fortified  Norwich  Castle,  declaring  himself  in  favour  of  the  Conqueror's 
eldest  son,  Robert,  Duke  of  Normandy.  He,  however,  later  stood 
firm  to  Hen.  I.  in  opposition  to  Duke  Robert,  and  as  a  reward  had  a 
gift  of  the  Castle  of  Framlingham,  and  was  made  the  King's  server 
and  steward  of  his  household.2  He  founded  the  Priory  of  Black  Canons  at 
Thetford,  dedicated  to  St.  Mary  and  St.  John  in  the  3rd  year  of  King  Hen.  I., 
and  gave  to  the  monks  at  Rochester  his  church  of  St.  Felix  at  Walton.  He 
died  in  1107,  and  was  buried  in  the  priory  at  Thetford  with  this  inscription:— 

Clauderis  exiguo  Rogere  Bigote  sepulchre 

Et  rerum  cedit  portio  parva  tibi. 
Divitiae,  sanguis,  facundia,  gratia  Regum 

Intereunt,  mortem  fallere  nemo  potest. 
Divitiae  mentes  subvertunt,  erigat  ergo 

Te  pietas,  virtus,  consiliumque  Dei. 

His  eldest  son,  William  Bigod,  was  his  successor,  and  was  constituted 
steward  like  his  father,  to  the  household  of  Hen.  I.  From  this  time  to  the 
death  of  Mary,  Countess  of  Norfolk,  in  1362,  the  devolution  of  the  manor  is 
identical  with  that  of  Framlingham  Manor,  in  Loes  Hundred. 

The  manor  next  seems  to  have  been  held  by  Richard  Spicer  and  Rose 
his  wife,  against  whom  a  fine  was  in  1376  levied  by  John  de  Staverton.3  A 
little  later  we  find  the  manor  in  John  Wafer,  and  then  in  1428  in  Robert 
Saxer.  In  1433  Guy  de  Visdelieu  died  seised,  holding  of  John,  Duke  of 
Norfolk,  as  of  the  Manor  of  Walton,4  and  in  1464  William  de  Visdelieu  paid 
a  relief  of  505.  in  respect  of  the  manor  to  Framlingham  Castle. 

Amongst  the  Additional  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum  is  an  extent  of 
this  manor  and  Capell's  Manor  with  Nortons,  Oct.  1515. 5  About  this  time 
we  find  the  manor  belonged  to  Sir  James  Hobart,  Knt.,  of  Loddon,6  who 
died  24th  Feb.  I5i6,7  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Walter  Hobart, 
on  whose  death  in  1538  it  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry  Hobart,  against 
whom  a  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  in  1544  by  Nicholas  Rokewode  and 
others.  He  died  in  1561,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
James  Hobart,  of  Hales  Hall,  in  Loddon,  and  he  and  his  wife  Frances,  by 
deed  dated  the  nth  Sept.  6  Eliz.  [1564]*  sold  it  to  Thomas  Lambe,  son  of 
Richard  Lambe'  and  of  Anne  (?  Agnes),  daughter  of  Thomas  Ford,  of 

1  Dom.  ii.  341.  6See   Manor  of  Oulton,   in   Lothingland 

«  William  of  Malmesbury,  88  Mat.  Paris,  56.  Hundred. 

JFeet  of  Fines,  50  Edw.  III.  13.  7I.P.M.,  9  Hen.  VIII.  25. 

4 1. P.M.,  II  Hen.  VI.  43.  "Add  Ch.   10231,   10232. 

'Add.  21043.  'See  Manor  of  Illarius,  East  Bergholt,  in 

Samford  Hundred. 


TRIMLEY    ST.    MARY'S.  105 

Trimley,1  and  his  son  Thomas,  on  the  death  of  his  father,  succeeded  to  the 
lordship.  He  married  Winifred,  daughter  of  William  Grislinge,  of  London, 
and  in  1596  sold  the  manor  to  Sir  Edward  Coke  or  Cooke,  the  celebrated 
Lord  Chief  Justice.* 

In  1805  we  find  the  manor  in  George  R.  S.  Nassau,  and  in  1837  in 
Edwin  Julian.  There  is  a  memorial  window  in  the  church  to  this  lord, 
who  died  on  his  passage  to  America  in  April,  1851.  Court  books  and  surveys 
of  Candelent  and  Chapelle  (Capel)  Manors  in  1515,  1528,  and  1647,  are 
referred  to  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  British  Archaeological  Association.3 
The  Court  books  of  the  last  mentioned  manors,  20  Hen.  VIII. — 25  Charles  II. 
[1528-1673]  will  be  found  amongst  the  Add,  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum.4 

A  rental  of  the  Manor  of  Candelent  in  1610  and  1647  will  also  be  found 
among  the  Add.  MSS.  of  the  British  Museum.5 

Arms  of  LAMBE  :  Sable,  on  a  fesse  Or  betw.  three  cinquefoils 
Ermine,  a  lion  passant  Gules  between  two  mullets  of  the  field. 

BLOWFIELD  MANOR. 

In  the  time  of  Edw.  I.  this  was  the  lordship  of  Godfrey  de  Bellomonte, 
who  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here  in  1292,*  and  in  1293  the  manor  passed 
to  his  brother  and  heir,  John  de  Bellomonte.7  Later,  we  find  it  in  Alexander 
de  Preto,  and  in  1362  in  John  Blofeld,  from  whom  the  manor  no  doubt 
derived  its  name.  Shortly  afterwards  it  became  vested  in  John  Cavendish, 
of  Grimston  Hall,  from  whom  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Roger  Cavendish, 
who  by  will  in  1404-5  devised  the  same  to  his  great-nephew,  Austin 
Cavendish,  who  died  in  1468. s 

Amongst  the  Early  Chancery  Proceedings  is  a  suit  by  Richard,  son  of 
this  Augustine  or  "  Austin  Caundyssh,"  as  he  is  called,  against  Sir  John 
Wyngfeld,  Knt.,  Sir  William  Brandon,  Knt.,  John  Sulyard,  and  Edward 
Grymston,  as  to  the  manor  and  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  St. 
Martin  and  St.  John  of  Alneston,  and  lands  in  Trimley  St.  Mary  and  St. 
Martin,  Walton,  "  Fylstowe  "  (Felixstowe),  Kirketon,  and  "  Falcenham."5 

In  1503  we  find  the  manor  by  deed  dated  3rd  Oct.  19  Hen.  VII.  conveyed 
by  Sir  John  Wingfield,  Knt.,  to  John  Yaxlee,  serjeant-at-law,  Robert 
Yaxlee,  and  John  Waller  to  the  use  of  John.'0  Anthony  Yaxley  died  seised 
of  the  lands  called  Blowfield  in  1568-9,  when  the  estate  passed  to  his  grand- 
son, William  Yaxley,  son  of  Richard,  son  of  Anthony."  William  Yaxley 
died  in  1588,  but  two  years  prior  to  his  death  sold  the  manor  to  Edward 
Grimston,13  who  died  seised  of  it  in  1610,  leaving  Harbottle  Grimston  his 
son  and  heir.  Amongst  the  Add.  Charters  in  the  British  Museum  is  the 
Confirmation  of  a  Status  in  "  Blofield  Manor  "  in  I459-'3 

ALTESTON  MANOR,  NOW  WITH  TRIMLEY. 

There  were  four  holdings  specified  in  the  Domesday  Survey,  at  the 
time  of  the  compiling  of  which  Alteston  was  regarded  as  a  separate  parish, 
for  it  was  not  consolidated  with  Trimley  until  1362.  The  first  holding  was 

1  Fine,  Easter,  7  Eliz.  8  76. 

2  Fine,  Easter,  38  Eliz.  sE.C.P.,  Bundle  50,  212. 
'xxi.  14.                                                               IOAdd.  Ch.  10223. 

« Add  21044.  "  Manor  of  Lancaster,  in  Mellis,  in  Hartis- 
5  Add.  21045.  mere  Hundred. 

6 Chart.  Rolls,  20  Edw.  I.  33.  "Fine,  Mich.  28-29  Eliz. 

'See  Manor  of  Grimston  Hall,  in  Trimley  '3  Add.  Ch.  10215. 
St.  Martin,  in  this  Hundred. 


io6 


THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 


of  Robert,  Earl  of  Moretaigne,  who  had  48  acres  of  land  and  i  ploughtcam, 
valued  at  155.,  which  had  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  been  held  by  a  free- 
man under  commendation  to  Harold,  and  2  freemen.Leveston  and  Goodwin, 
under  commendation  to  Norman,  when  there  was  a  ploughteam  and  a  half, 
and  the  value  was  8s.1  The  second  holding  was  that  of  Roger  Bigot,  who 
held  2  freemen  with  1 1  acres,  Turbin,  and  Ulwin,  valued  at  22d.  And  a  church 
with  5  acres  of  free  land,  valued  at  i6d.  The  Survey  says,  under  this  entry : 
"  It  is  6  quarentenes  long  and  2  broad,  and  pays  jd.  in  a  gelt.  Others  hold 
in  these  manors.  These  are  all  freemen  under  Roger  Bigot,  and  Norman 
holds  them  of  him." 

Ralph  de  Turlaville  also  held  of  Roger  Bigot  3  freemen,  named  Leverich, 
Almar,  and  Raven,  with  30  acres,  formerly  under  commendation  to  Norman, 
and  i  bordar,  i  ploughteam,  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  55.  The 
fourth  holding  here  was  also  one  of  Roger  Bigot's.  Of  him  Wihtmar  held 
a  freeman  named  Ulrich  with  12  acres,  formerly  under  Norman.  The 
value  was  2s.  only.1 

Free  warren  was  granted  here  in  1292  to  Godfrey  de  Bellomonte,3  and 
in  1330  to  Nicholas  Bonde,4  and  the  manor  is  mentioned  in  the  inquisition 
post  mortem  of  William  de  Mortuo  Mari  and  Alicia  his  wife  in  1304. 5 

A  manor  called  Trimley  Manor  was  granted  in  fee  to  Thomas,  Duke  of 
Norfolk,  the  same  being  in  the  King's  hands  by  the  attainder  of  Cardinal 
VVolsey.6  In  the  36  Hen.  VIII.  an  Act  of  Parliament  passed  ratifying  an 
exchange  between  the  King,  Thomas  Howard,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  and  Henry 
his  son,  Earl  of  Arundel  and  Surrey  ;  they  giving  to  the  King  the  Manors 
of  Walton,  Trimley,  Falkenham,  with  the  rectories  of  Walton  and  Felix- 
stowe  in  Suffolk,  for  the  Castle  Manor  and  Chase  of  Rysing  and  all  its 
appurtenances,  with  the  Manors  of  Thorpe  Gaywood,  South  Walsham, 
Halvergate,  and  Ditchingham  in  Norfolk ;  Dunningworth,  Cratfield,  Hoo, 
Staverton,  and  Bromeswell  in  Suffolk,  to  be  held  of  the  King  in  capite  by 
the  3oth  part  of  a  knight's  fee,  and  the  rent  of  £25  per  annum,  payable  at 
St.  Michael  into  the  Court  of  Augmentations.7 

A  manor  called  Trimley  St.  Mary,  no  doubt  the  same  as  above,  was  in 
1597  granted  in  perpetuity  by  the  Crown  to  Robert  Barker,  of  Ipswich.8 


'Dom.  ii.  292. 
•Dom.  ii.  341,  3416,  342*. 
•Chart  Rolls,  21  Edw.  I.  33. 
« Chart.  Rolls,  4  Edw.  III.  41. 


'  I.P.M.,  32  Edw.  I.  32. 
•S.P.  22  Hen.  VIII.  220  (rr). 
'Blomefield's  Norf.  ix.  48. 
"S.P.  1597,  p.  427. 


TUDDENHAM.  107 

TUDDENHAM. 

HERE  were  three  manors  in  this  place  in  Saxon  times.  One 
belonged  to  Roger  de  Poictou  and  consisted  of  68  acres  of 
land,  3  bordars,  and  a  ploughteam,  but  at  the  time  of  the 
Survey  there  were  no  bordars,  and  but  half  a  team,  and  4 
acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  255.  It  had  been  held  by 
Goddard,  a  freeman  under  the  Abbot  of  Ely  in  the  time 
of  the  Confessor. 

Roger  de  Poictou  had  two  other  holdings  here,  one  of  30  acres  and  2 
bordars,  formerly  having  i  ploughteam,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  none, 
and  3  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  IDS.  This  had  belonged  to  Lihtwin,  a  freeman 
under  Halden,  the  predecessor  of  Geoffrey  de  Magnaville.  The  other  was 
50  acres  and  2  bordars,  formerly  with  3  ploughteams,  but  at  the  time  of  the 
Survey  2  only,  and  4  acres  of  meadow,  formerly  valued  at  205.,  but  at  the 
time  of  the  Survey  valued  at  155.  This  had  been  held  in  the  Confessor's 
time  by  12  freemen  under  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely.  The  second 
manor  belonged  to  Hervey  de  Bourges,'  being  held  of  him  by  Bernard 
d'Alencon,  having  belonged  to  Brihtmar,  a  freeman  in  the  Confessor's 
time,  under  commendation  to  Edric  of  Laxfield.  It  consisted  of  80  acres, 
6  bordars,  I  serf,  a  ploughteam  in  demesne,  and  4  acres  of  meadow.  In  Saxon 
times  there  were  attached  to  this  manor  2  rouncies,  3  hogs,  15  sheep,  and  6 
goats,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  the  hogs  were  5,  the  sheep  10,  and  the 
goats  had  disappeared.  The  value  was  505.  Edric,  the  predecessor  of 
Robert  Malet,  was  seised  in  the  Confessor's  time,  and  William  Malet  when 
he  died,  but  the  land  could  not  be  either  given  or  sold  to  anyone.  Five 
freemen  under  commendation  to  the  above  Brihtmar  had  held  14  acres 
with  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  45.,  but  by  the  time  of  the  Survey  the 
ploughteams  had  disappeared  and  the  value  was  35.  Hervey  of  Bourges 
also  had  here  4  acres,  lying  in  Bealings,  valued  at  8^.,  and  held  a  free- 
woman,  by  name  Aldeda,  under  commendation  to  Edric  of  Laxfield,  having 
6  acres,  valued  at  I2d.  Hervey  also  held  2  freemen,  one  under  commenda- 
tion to  Ralph,  brother  of  Ilger,  and  the  other  under  commendation  to  one 
himself  under  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  holding  7  acres,  formerly 
with  half  a  ploughteam,  which  had  disappeared  at  the  time  of  the  Survey. 
The  value  was  i6d.,  and  the  length  (presumably  of  the  township)  was  10 
quarentenes,  and  the  breadth  6,  and  it  paid  in  a  gelt  15^.  All  these 
properties  of  Hervey  were  held  of  him  by  Bernard  d'Alencon.2 

The  third  manor  was  held  by  Roger  de  Rheims,  having  been  held 
in  the  Confessor's  time  by  Aluric  the  deacon,  a  freeman  under  commenda- 
tion to  Saxa  of  the  abbot.  It  consisted  of  12  acres,  3  bordars,  i  plough- 
team,  2  acres  of  meadow,  formerly  i  rouncy,  2  beasts,  ii  hogs,  and  40 
sheep,  valued  at  35.  Gerold  held  this  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  of  Roger  de 
Rheims,  and  also  of  the  same  10  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  25., 
which  had  been  held  by  two  freemen,  one  under  commendation  to  the 
Abbot  of  Ely  and  the  other  under  commendation  to  Harold.  Roger  de 
Rheims  also  held  20  acres  in  the  demesne  of  Tuddenham,  and  in  the  Hundred, 
enumerated  amongst  his  possessions  were  20  acres  belonging  to  Tudden- 
ham Church.3 

Another  holding  was  that  of  Robert  Malet  and  consisted  in  the  time  of 
the  Confessor  of  12  acres,  i  ploughteam,  but  which  latter  had  at  the  time 

1  Dom.  ii.  346.  3  Dom.  ii.  4236. 

ii.  442. 


io8  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

of  the  Survey  disappeared,  and  J  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  2s.,  held  by  a 
freeman  under  commendation  to  Edric.  There  was  a  church  with  5  acres 
"  in  this  Hundred, "and  another  freeman  under  commendation  to  Godwin, 
holding  4  acres,  valued  at  Sd.'  Earl  Alan  had  a  small  holding  here  con- 
sisting of  4  acres,  valued  at  Sd.  held  by  a  freeman  under  Ralph  the  Staller,1 
and  the  Abbot  of  Ely  held  a  freeman  named  Aluric  under  commendation 
to  one  under  commendation  to  the  abbot,  valued  at  Sd.  This  was  held  of 
the  abbot  by  Hervey  de  Berri.1 

TUDDENHAM  MANOR  OR  LOUDHAM  HALL  MANOR. 

In  1293  this  was  the  lordship  of  Robert  Westerfield,  and  later  was  held 
by  John  de  Tudenham,  f rom  whom  it  passed  about  1310  to  his  son  and  heir. 
Oliver  de  Tudenham.  In  the  opening  of  the  I4th  century  the  manor 
belonged  to  John  de  Loudham,  and  on  his  death  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Sir  John  de  Loudham,  Knt.,  who  died  in  1356,*  when  it  vested  in  his 
grandson  and  heir,  John  de  Loudham,  who  died  in  1374,  without  issue,  and 
was  succeeded  by  his  brother  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  de  Loudham,  Knt., 
who  died  in  1385. 5  John  de  Loudham,  his  son  and  heir,  succeeded,  and 
married  Jane,  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  William  Kelvedon,  of  Kelvedon 
Hall,  in  Great  Brasted,  co.  Essex.  He  died  in  1423,'  when  the  manor 
passed  to  his  daughter  and  heir  Jane,  married  ist  to  Thomas  Heveningham, 
and  2ndly  to  Ralph  Blenerhasset,  of  Frenze,  in  Norfolk.  She  died  aoth 
June,  1501,  at  the  age  of  97,  when  the  manor  passed  to  her  son  and  heir, 
John  Blenerhasset,  who  was  then  77  years  of  age.  He  married  ist  Jane, 
daughter  of  Thomas  Heigham,  of  Higham  Green,  in  Gazeley,  and  2ndly, 
Jane,  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Tyndall,  Knt.  He  died  8th  Nov.  1509,  in 
his  87th  year/  when  the  manor  devolved  on  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas 
Blenerhasset.  He  married  ist  Jane  Sutton,  and  andly  Margaret,  daughter 
of  John  Braham,  of  Wetheringsett,  who  died  23rd  July,  1561.  Sir  Thomas 
died  27th  June,  1531,"  and  was  buried  in  the  church  of  Frenze  in  Norfolk. 
On  each  corner  of  a  stone  to  his  memory  in  the  church  is  a  coat  of  Hasset, 
quartering  Orton,  Lowdham,  Keldon,  Heigham,  Beacham,  &c.  His  effigy 
remained  in  Blomefield's  time  in  complete  armour,  having  a  surcoat  of 
his  arms,  with  his  quarterings,  and  under  his  head  was  his  crest,  viz.,  a 
fox  passant.  The  manor,  on  Sir  Thomas  Blenerhasset's  death,  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  George  Blenerhasset,  who  married  ist  one  of  the  daughters 
and  coheirs  of  John  Covert,  of  Sussex,  and  2ndly  Margaret,  sister  of  Sir 
George  Jermyn,  Knt.  He  died  i8th  Feb.  1543,'  and  his  wife  Margaret 
is  buried  in  Frenze  Church,  having  died  7th  Sept.  1587,  aged  70. 

The  manor  devolved  on  George's  death  on  his  daughter  and  heir,  Mary, 
married  to  Thomas  Colepepper  or  Culpeper,  of  Wakehurst,  in  Kent,  and 
in  1544  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  by  John  Culpeper  and  others  against  the 
said  Thomas  Culpeperand  others,10  and  another  fine  in  1562  levied  by  James 
Byelles  against  the  said  Thomas  Culpeper  and  others." 

Davy  states  that  Sir  Thomas  Bedingfield,  Knt.,  was  lord,  and  on  his 
death  in  1539,"  the  manor  passed  to  his  brother  and  heir,  Robert  Bedingfield." ' 

1  Dom.  ii.  3156.  »  I.P.M.,  2  Hen.  VIII.  33. 

*  Dom.  ii.  293.  s  I.P.M.,  23  Hen.  VIII.  63. 

3 Dom.  ii.  3866.  9 I. P.M.,  36  Hen.  VIII.  foth  Oct.). 

'I.P.M.,  30  Edw.  III.  19.  '"Fine,  Mich.  36  Hen.  VIII. 

5I.P.M.,  9  Rich.  II.  33.  Blomefield  says        "Fine,  Hil.  5  Eliz. 

he  died  28th  April,  1428.  "Should  be  isth  March,  1538. 

"I.P.M.,  2  Hen.  VI.  24.  "I.P.M.,  31  Hen.  VIII.  5. 


•  - 


TUDDENHAM,  109 

This  however,  is  evidently  the  "  Tuddenham  Manor  "  of  which  Margaret 
Bedingfield  died  seised  in  1475,'  and  of  which  Sir  Thomas  Tuddenham 
died  seised  ten  years  earlier,2  and  might  have  been  either  Tuddenham  St. 
Mary's  Manor,  or  Tuddenham  Manor  in  Kesgrave,  but  not  this  manor. 

In  the  27th  Elizabeth  [1585]  we  find  that  Robert  King  died  seised  of 
three  parts  of  the  manor.  Later,  it  was  vested  in  Robert  Smyth,1  and  in 
1606  passed  to  his  daughter  and  heir  Jane,  married  to  William  Wooton. 

The  manor  was  in  1644  vested  in  John  Sickelmore,  for  he  died  seised 
gth  June,  1644,  and  his  ownership  of  the  manor  is  stated  on  a  shield-shaped 
tablet  south  of  the  altar  in  the  parish  church  : — 

"  Here  lyes  the  bodyes  of  John 

Sicklemor  Gen'.  Lord  of  this  Man 

nor  and  Elizabeth   his  wife,  who  to 

gether  had  issue  seaven  sonnes  and 

seaven   Daughters   and  they  left  sur 

viving  them  six  Sonnes  and  Foure  Daugh 

ters,  namely  Mary,  Thomas,  John,  Tobias 

Martha,  Nicholas  Elizb.  Samuel 

Alice  and  Jonathan : 

Obijt  Johannes  :  9°°  Jun.  1644  ! 

Johannes  filius  hoc  dedicavit." 

This  is  surmounted  by  three  escutcheons  :  dexter,  Gules,  three  sickles 
interwoven  Arg.  handled  Or,  Sicklemore  ;  sinister,  Gu.  2  chevrons,  Arg. 
Fettiplace  ;  centre,  Sicklemore  impaling  Fettiplace. 

In  1693  the  manor  was  in  Philip  Bacon,  in  right  of  his  wife,  Mary, 
daughter  and  heir  of  John  Sicklemore,  and   by  indentures  of   lease  and 
release  dated  ist  and  2nd  Oct.  1701,  the  said  Philip  Bacon,  described  as  of 
Nacton,  gent.,  and  William  Minter,  of  Barham,  gent.,  mortgaged  the  manor 
in  consideration  of  £1,060  to  Thomas  Grove,  late  of  Clopton,  on  whose  death 
Mary,  of  Ipswich,  his    widow  and    executrix,  together   with    the    said 
Philip  Bacon  and  William  Minter,by  deed  dated  25th  March,  1702,  assigned 
to  Ballestrazzar  Gardiner,  a  nominee  of  Minter,  all  right  in  the  manor. 

William  Minter,  on  his  marriage  with  Elizabeth  Fynn,  of  Ipswich 
conveyed  by  deeds  dated  i8th  and  igth  July,  1715,  the  manor  to  Simon 
Dove,  of  Bramford,  and  Francis  Coleman,of  Ipswich,  goldsmith,  as  trustees, 
to  uses  in  favour  of  the  said  William  Minter  and  Elizabeth  his  intended 
wife.  William  Minter,  by  his  will  dated  I2th  Oct.  1738,'  bequeaths  certain 
copyholds  to  his  cousin  William  Minter,  the  elder  of  Hemingstone,  for  life, 
and  then  to  his  eldest  son,  William  Minter,  the  younger.  Apparently  this 
manor  went  in  the  same  way  as  the  copyholds,  for  in  1753  upon  the  marriage 
of  William  Minter,  of  Tuddenham,  with  Sarah  Sparowe,  of  Wherstead,  this 
manor  was  included  in  the  settlement  dated  2gth  and  30th  March,  1753, 
being  vested  in  William  Sparowe  the  elder  and  William  Sparowe  the 
younger,  both  of  Wherstead,  as  trustees. 

William  Minter,  junior,  the  settlor,  made  his  will  dated  5th  March, 
1787,'  and  died  ist  Aug.  1788,  leaving  his  widow  Sarah  and  two  daughters, 
Sarah  and  Mary,  to  whom  he  devised  all  his  lands.  The  daughter  Sarah 

'I.P.M.,  15  Edw.  IV.  38.  «He  died  4th   July,  1739,  aged  85  years, 
a  I.P.M.,  5  Edw.  IV.  34.  and  his  will  was  proved  at  Ipswich, 

J  But  see  Tuddenham  Manor,  in  Lackford  28th  July,  1739. 

Hundred.  'Proved  23rd  Aug.  1788,  P.C.C. 


no  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

married  William  Tong,  only  child  of  William  Tong,  of  Westerfield,  clerk,  and 
by  settlement  effected  by  lease  and  release  dated  7th  and  8th  Oct.  1789, 
Sarah's  moiety  of  the  manor  was  vested  in  Francis  Brooke  and  Mileson 
Edgar,  as  trustees,  the  same  being  limited  to  the  use  of  William  Tong  and 
Sarah,  and  their  issue.  William  Tong  made  his  will  5th  March,  1794,  and 
must  have  died  the  same  year,  for  it  was  proved  i2th  Nov.  following.  He 
left  his  widow  Sarah  surviving  and  two  daughters,  Isabella  and  Susannah. 

Isabella  married  one  Wratislaw,  and  died  2ist  Feb.  1812,  aged  20, 
apparently  leaving  issue.  Susannah,  her  sister,  married  Michael  Turner. 

Mary  Minter,  who  was  possessed  of  the  other  moiety  of  the  manor,  by 
her  will  dated  24th  Dec.  1830  devised  the  same  to  her  niece,  Susannah  Turner, 
and  died  3oth  Jan.  1831.  Susannah  died  intestate. 

In  1837  the  manor  was  vested  in  Major  Michael  Turner,  the  husband 
of  Susannah,  and  in  John  Minter  Tong  Wratislaw,  probably  a  son  of 
Isabella  Wratislaw. 

In  1855  it  was  held  by  the  former  and  J.  Wratislaw.  Major  Michael 
Turner  died  in  1865,  when  his  interest  in  the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son, 
the  Rev.  Michael  Turner,  rector  of  Cotton.  He  married  Mary  Anne, 
daughter  of  the  Rev.  Philip  Carlyon,  and  on  his  death  his  interest  in  the 
manor  passed  to  the  Rev.  Michael  Turner,  M.A.,  of  Cotton  rectory. 

The  Wratislaw  and  Turner  interests  have  been  since  acquired  by,  and 
the  manor  is  now  vested  in  Mrs.  Holt  Wilson,  of  Redgrave  Hall. 

Arms  of  SICKLEMORE  :  Sa.,  three  sickles  interwoven,  Arg.  handled  Or. 

ST.  BARTHOLOMEW'S  MANOR  OR  BERTILMEMES  MANOR. 

This  manor  belonged  in  1252  to  John  Bertelmen,  of  "  Thodenhan,"  a 
foreign  burgess  of  Ipswich. 

In  1323  a  fine  was  levied  (apparently  of  this  manor1)  by  William  de 
Risheton  and  Alice  his  wife,  and  John,  son  of  John  de  Ofton,  against  John 
de  Wellston  and  David  le  Waleys,'  and  in  1455  by  Henry  Tumour,  of 
Haverhill,  Richard  Bumstede,  clerk,  John  Yates,  John  Shotesham,  clerk, 
Thomas  Mayster,  and  John  Stalon,  against  Thomas  Freman  and  Agnes  his 
wife.' 

Later  the  manor  vested  in  George  Baldry,  of  Hadleigh,  who  died  seised 
of  it  i4th  Feb.  1540,*  when  it  passed  to  Elizabeth,  his  daughter  and  heir, 
married  to  Robert,  2nd  Lord  Rich.  The  custody  of  this  manor,  and  a 
messuage  in  North  Weston,  had  been  granted  in  1541  to  Sir  Richard  Rich 
during  the  minority  of  Elizabeth,  with  wardship  and  marriage.5 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  is  an 
action  for  discovery  by  Elizabeth,  Lady  Rich,  widow  of  Robert  Lord  Rich, 
against  John  Fynch,  as  to  the  manor  or  mansion-house  called  "  Bartholo- 
mewes"  and  land  in  Tuddenham,  Culpho,  Playford,  and  Ipswich,  of  which 
defendant  had  been  farmer,  and  claimed  part  by  purchase.6  Lord  Rich 
died  27th  Feb.  1581,  and  the  manor  probably  passed  to  his  son,  Sir  Edwin, 
3rd  Lord  Rich,  of  Mulbarton,  co.  Norfolk.  In  1599  a  fine  was  levied  of  the 
manor  by  Henry  Derby  and  others  against  Edwin  Rich  and  others.7 

In  1609  the  manor  was  vested  in  Robert  King,  afterwards  Robert  King 
Blundevill,  of  Newton  Flotman,  Norfolk.  He  sold  i8th  Feb.  1635,  to 
Gilbert  Havers,  citizen  and  woollen  draper,  of  London,  who  became  bankrupt 

'This  probably  relates  to  the  Manor  of         4I.P.M.,  32  Hen.  VIII.  20. 

Tuddenham  St.  Mary.  '33  Hen.  VIII.  1541  ;  S.P.  947  (i). 

'Feet  of  Fines,  17  Edw.  II.  30.  8C.P.  ii.  424,  5. 

3  Feet  of  Fines,  33  Hen.  VI.  II.  7Fine,  Trin.  41  Eliz. 


TUDDENHAM. 


in 


in  1644,  when  the  manor  was  sold  by  the  Commissioner  to  Edmund  West,  of 
Masworth,  co.  Bucks.,  who  seems  to  have  been  trustee  only,  for  Gilbert 
Havers  conveyed  in  1651  to  Roger  Pratt,  of  the  Inner  Temple,  afterwards 
Sir  Roger  Pratt,  of  Riston,  co.  Norfolk.  He  sold  by  deed  7th  Nov.  1663, 
to  John  Courthois,  of  the  Inner  Temple,  for  £2,400.  On  his  death  the  manor 
descended  to  his  two  daughters  and  coheirs,  Gertrude  and  Barbara.  Barbara 
conveyed  her  moiety  to  her  sister  Gertrude,  and  she  sold  the  whole  in  1679 
to  Sir  Roger  Pratt,  Knt.,  who,  2ist  May,  1681,  obtained  a  release  from  all 
parties  beneficially  interested. 

Amongst  the  Exchequer  Depositions  taken  at  Ipswich  in  1679  we  nnd 
an  action  by  Gertrude  "  Curtlois  "  and  others  against  Sir  Roger  Pratt  as  to 
"  the  Manor  of  Bartholomews  and  Manor  of  Tuddenham,  and  capital 
messuage  called  Tuddenham  Hall,  and  lands  in  Tuddenham  and  Culpho, 
lately  sold  by  defendant  (when  Mr.  Pratt)  to  John  Curthois,1  and  a  cross- 
action  the  same  year  between  Sir  Robert  Pratt  and  Gertrude  Curthois  and 
others  amongst  the  same  Depositions. 

Sir  Roger  Pratt,  who  had  been  knighted  by  Charles  II.  for  his  exertions 
in  rebuilding  with  Sir  Christopher  Wren  the  city  of  London  after  the  great  fire 
of  1666,  married  Anne,  daughter  of  Sir  Edward  Monyns,  Bart.,  of  Waldershare, 
co.  Kent,  and  died  without  issue  in  1684,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his 
cousin  and  heir,  Edward  Pratt,  of  Yoxford,  son  of  Edward  Pratt,  of  Hevening- 
hain,  by  Ursula  his  wife,  daughter  of  Henry  Rossington,  of  Framlingham, 
which  last -mentioned  Edward  was  2nd  son  of  Edward  Pratt,  of  Hockwold, 
and  Dorothy  his  wife,  daughter  of  William  Cobb,  of  Sandringham,  co. 
Norfolk,  which  last-mentioned  Edward  Pratt  was  brother  of  Gregory 
Pratt,  the  grandfather  of  Sir  Roger  Pratt.  Edward  Pratt,  the  successor  of 
Sir  Roger,  married  Emma,  daughter  of  William  Tiffin,  and  widow  of  George 
Bexwell,  and  on  his  death  in  1691  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Edward 
Pratt,  of  Woodbridge.  He  married  Mary,  daughter  of  Anthony  Apple- 
thwaite,  of  Ipswich,  and  dying  in  1708,"  the  manor  passed  to  his  widow  for 
life,  who,  by  deed  ist  Oct.  1723,  released  her  interest  to  her  son  and  heir, 
Roger  Pratt,  of  Ryston,  co.  Norfolk,  High  Sheriff  in  1727.  He  married 
Henrietta,  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Davers,  Bart.,  by  Mary,  his  wife,  one  of 
the  coheirs  of  Thomas,  last  Lord  Jermyn,  and  on  his  death  in  1771  the 
manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edward  Pratt,  who  married  Blanche, 
daughter  of  Sir  Jacob  Astley,  Bart.,  of  Melton  Constable,  and  died  in  1784, 
when  the  manor  did  not  apparently  devolve  on  his  son  and  heir,  Edward  Roger 
Pratt,  of  Ryston,  High  Sheriff  in  1798,  but  passed  to  the  2nd  son,  the  Rev. 
Jermyn  Pratt,  rector  of  Ash.  He  married  4th  May,  1847,  Mary  Louisa, 
4th  daughter  of  George  Murray,  Bishop  of  Rochester  and  grandson  of  John, 
3rd  Duke  of  Atholl,  and  apparently  parted  with  the  lordship,  for  in  Septem- 
ber, 1841,  the  manor,  then  but  a  reputed  manor,  was  sold  for  £10,300  to 
Dr.  Lynn,  of  Woodbridge. 

There  is  a  precipe  on  covenants  concerning  this  manor  in  1596  amongst 
the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.3 

Page  says  that  in  1437  Sir  John  Clifton,  of  Buckenham  Castle,  Knt., 
surrendered  the  Manor  of  Tuddenham  St.  Martin  to  Master  Thomas 
Well  and  his  assigns,  it  having  been  long  in  contest  between  them ;  and  he 
infers  that  this  was  the  same  manor  which  later  vested  in  the  family  of 
Minter.  This,  however,  seems  open  to  question. 

1 31  Charles  II.,  Ipswich  Exch.  Dep.  Oct.  1723,  it  is  stated  that  Edward's 

"Will  proved  1st  July,  1708.  Ina  deed  con-  will  was  dated  I5th  July,  1708. 

nected  with  the  property  dated  1st         '  Add.  Ch.  25498. 


112  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

There  is  a  fine  of  the  Manor  of  Tudenham  and  the  advowson  in  1435, 
but  we  cannot  say  to  which  manor  it  relates.  It  was  levied  between  Hugh 
Acton,  clerk,  Ralph  Harpele,  clerk,  John  Bacon,  sen.,  John  jun.,  Robert 
Blyklyng,  of  Norwich,  Robert  Gunton,  of  Norwich,  Peter  Laurence,  Robert 
Piert,  John  Folkard,  Simon  Walsokyn,  William  Yiselham,  John  Pennyng, 
draper,  Robert  Toopp,  William  Hempstede,  of  Norwich,  and  Thomas  Gryce, 
of  Norwich,  against  William  Ampulford  and  Margaret  his  wife.1 

There  is  also  a  fine  levied  in  1326,  which  includes  a  Manor  of  "  Tudden- 
ham."  It  was  levied  by  Richard  Len,  of  Ipswich,  and  Emma  his  wife, 
against  Giles  de  Wacheshamand  John  atte  Northstrete,  chaplain.1 

Arms  of  PRATT  :  Argent,  on  a  chevron  Sa.,  between  two  ogresses  each 
charged  with  a  martlet  of  the  first  in  chief,  and  an  ogress  in  base,  charged 
with  a  trefoil  slipped  Arg.  three  mascles  Or. 


'Feet  of  Fines,  13  Hen.  VI.  23.  'Feet  of  Fines,  20  Edw.  II.  7. 


WALDRINGFIELD.  n3 

WALDRINGFIELD. 

HERE  was  one  manor  here  in  Saxon  times.  It  belonged  to 
Ranulf,  brother  of  Ilger,  and  consisted  of  i  carucate  of 
land,  a  bordar,  2  ploughteams,  reduced  to  i  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey,  and  a  mill.  In  Saxon  times  was  i  rouncy 
and  100  sheep,  which  in  the  Survey  became  27,  and  the 
value  was  205.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey,  the  value 
had  come  down  to  ios.,  the  rouncy  had  disappeared,  and 
the  sheep  were  27  only.  The  Survey  says:  "  It  is  6  quarentenes  long  and 
3  broad,  and  pays  in  a  gelt  5^."  It  was  held  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor 
by  Brihtmar,  a  freeman ;  Ranulf  also  held  here  40  acres  and  i  ploughteam, 
valued  at  45.,  which  had  formerly  been  held  by  five  freemen  under  com- 
mendation, half  to  Brihtmar  and  half  to  his  mother.1  The  Abbot  of  Bury 
had  a  large  estate  here.  It  consisted  of  ij  carcuates  of  land,  2  ploughteams 
in  demesne,  i  belonging  to  the  men,  2  acres  of  meadow,  i  rouncy,  10  hogs, 
and  100  sheep,  valued  at  205.  It  was  3  quarentenes  in  breadth  and  6  in 
length,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  5^.  This  estate  in  the  Confessor's  time  had  been 
held  by  Quengeva  under  the  abbot.2 

In  Little  Waldringfield  Robert  Malet  held  22  acres,  i  bordar  tenant, 
and  i  ploughteam,  valued  at  2s.,  which  had  formerly  been  held  by  a  socman 
under  Edric.3 

WALDRINGFIELD  al.  WALDRINGFIELD  HILTON  MANOR. 

In  1305  Sir  Robert  Hilton,  Knt.,  was  patron  of  the  living  of  Waldring- 
field, and  not  unlikely  had  the  manor  also,  which  would  account  for  its  name. 
In  the  next  century  it  was  the  lordship  of  Sir  Robert  Wingfield,  who  died 
in  1431,  from  which  time  till  the  time  of  Sir  John  Wingfield,  Sheriff  of  Nor- 
folk and  Suffolk  in  1483,  and  again  in  1492-3,  the  manor  devolved  in  the 
same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Thorpe  Hall  in  Hasketon,  in  this  Hundred. 

John  Purpet,  of  Newbourn,  seems  to  have  died  seised  of  the  manor  in 
1542,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edmund  Purpet.  His  daughter 
Jane  married  Anthony  Wingfield,  and  died  seised  of  the  manor  in  1562, 
when  Elizabeth  Wingfield,  daughter  of  Henry,  was  found  to  be  the  next 
heir.  Sir  Anthony  Wingfield,  of  Goodwins,  who  was  created  a  baronet 
I7th  May,  1627,  died  seised  of  the  manor  30th  July,  1638,  when  the  manor 
again  followed  the  same  line  of  devolution  as  the  Manor  of  Thorpe  Hall 
until  it  vested  in  Sir  Robert  Wingfield,  3rd  Bart.,  who  died  unmarried 
in  1671.  The  manor,  however,  was  sold  in  1662  to  Thomas  Essington,  from 
whom  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Essington,  who  sold  the  same  to  Sir 
Samuel  Barnardiston,  Bart.,  of  Brightwell.  He  was  the  3rd  son  of  Sir 
Nathaniel  Barnardiston  and  Jane  Soame.  He  is  noted  for  having  given  the 
term  "  Roundhead  "  to  the  political  party  which  he  and  his  family  supported. 
In  1641-2  he  took  part  in  a  city  procession  with  a  petition  to  the  Parliament 
described  as  "  the  humble  petition  of  divers  apprentices  and  other  young 
men  in  and  about  the  city  of  London,"  who  were  petitioners  for  peace.  He 
joined  heartily  in  the  Restoration,  and  was  knighted  and  created  a  baronet 
nth  May,  1663.  Sir  Samuel  sat  in  most  of  the  Parliaments  of  Charles  II. 
as  member  for  Ipswich,  and  was  Deputy-Governor  of  the  East  India  Com- 
pany, and  presented  a  petition  from  the  company  to  the  Commons  with 
reference  to  a  petition  presented  to  the  Lords  against  the  Commons.4  He 

'Dom.  ii.  4246.  3Dom.  ii.  315. 

*Dom.  {1.3696.  4Rapin  ii.  651. 

P 


n4  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

was  tried  before  Jeffreys,  I4th  Feb.  1683,  for  having  "  maliciously  and 
seditiously  "  in  letters  to  Sir  Philip  Skipper,  Knt.,  at  Ipswich  (who  had 
married  his  niece),  and  to  a  Mr.  William  Cavill  at  Bright  well,  and  others  in 
Suffolk,  mentioned  "  the  late  sham  protestant  plot."  "  Tis  generally 
believed  the  Earl  of  Essex  was  murdered."  "  The  brave  Lord  Russell  is 
afresh  lamented."  "  Sir  George  (Jeffreys)  is  grown  very  humble."  That 
"  it  is  believed  the  King  will  pardon  Algernon  Sidney,"  &c. 

Sir  Samuel  was  fined  £10,000  and  ordered  to  find  sureties  for  his  good 
behaviour  during  life,  and  to  be  committed  till  same  be  found.  Sir  Samuel 
Barnardiston  would  not  pay,  and  remained  a  prisoner  during  the  remainder 
of  this  and  a  great  part  of  the  following  reign.  In  the  2nd  William  and 
Mary,  an  Act  passed  "  to  free  the  estate  of  Sir  Samuel  Barnardiston  from 
the  several  incumbrances  occasioned  by  judgment  given  against  him  upon 
information  in  the  Court  of  King's  Bench."  Sir  Samuel  Barnardiston1 
died  without  issue  8th  Nov.  1707,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  nephew 
Samuel,  son  of  Nathaniel  Barnardiston,  of  Hackney,  elder  brother  of  the  late 
Baronet,  Sir  Samuel.  This  Sir  Samuel  Barnardiston,  2nd  Bart.,  of  Bright- 
well,  died  without  issue  3rd  Jan.  1709,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  brother, 
Sir  Pelatiah  Barnardiston,  3rd  Bart.,  who  died  unmarried  4th  May,  1712. 

In  1804  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Paiesti,  and  it 
subsequently  went  to  one  Bush,  and  was  then  purchased  by  the  Rev. 
Porter,  of  Ipswich.  In  1885  the  manor  was  vested  in  the  Rev.  George 
Henry  Porter,  of  Marlesford,  and  is  now  vested  in  Richard  Porter. 

RlVERSHALL  MANOR. 

This  was  the  estate  of  Brihtmar,  a  freeman  in  the  time  of  the  Con- 
fessor, and  of  Ranulf,  brother  of  Ilger,  at  the  period  of  the  Domesday 
Survey.  In  1316  the  lordship  was  vested  in  Richard  Bruce,  and  in  1428 
in  Margaret,  widow  of  William  Lampet.  Between  1456  and  1459  the  manor 
was  the  subject  of  the  Chancery  suit  mentioned  in  the  account  of  Brightwell 
Manor  pending  between  William  Curson,  Esq.,  and  Cecily  his  wife,  and  John 
Andrewe,  feoffee  of  John  Lampet,  Esq.,  father  of  the  said  Cecily,"  and 
it  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Brightwell,  in  this  Hundred, 
to  the  time  of  Thomas  Essington,  who  bought  in  1662,  after  which  it  devolved 
apparently  in  the  same  course  as  the  main  manor. 

The  manor  is  included  in  a  fine  levied  in  1542  by  Sir  John  Jermy  and 
Margaret  his  wife,  against  them  by  Thomas  Bawdy  and  others.3  The  fine 
included  also  the  manors  of  Brightwell  and  Stutton,  and  the  advowsons  of 
the  churches  of  Brightwell  and  Stutton  (?  Sutton). 

The  manor  with  the  main  manor  was  offered  for  sale  at  Ipswich  the 
24th  Sept.  1836.  They  were  then  described  as  "  The  Manors  of  Rivers  Hall 
in  Waldringfield  and  Waldringfield  with  Hilton." 


'See  Brightwell  Manor,  in  this  Hundred.  3Fine,  Hil.  34  Hen.  VIII. 

•E.C.P.  35-38  Hen.  VI.,  Bundle  26,  472. 


WALTON.  115 

WALTON. 


HERE  was  one  manor  here  in  Saxon  times  belonging  to 
Roger  Bigot.  It  consisted  of  2  carucates  of  land,  14  villeins, 
6  bordars,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne  and  2  belonging  to  the 
men,  and  4  acres  of  meadow.  There  was  a  fishery,  6  rouncies, 
26  hogs,  and  140  sheep.  This  manor  was  held  in  the  time  of 
the  Confessor  by  Norman,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  he 
held  under  Roger  Bigot,  but  the  particulars  given  above  had 
somewhat  altered.  There  were  then  but  6  villeins,  though  the  plough- 
teams  in  demesne  had  increased  by  a  half,  and  there  was  a  mill,  and  the 
fishery  had  gone.  There  was  a  church  with  8  acres  valued  at  i6<2. 

To  this  manor  belonged  Fakenham  as  a  hamlet  with  a  carucate  of 
land,  3  bordars,  and  i  ploughteam  in  demesne,  and  half  a  ploughteam 
belonging  to  the  men,  2  acres  of  meadow,  i  rouncy,  and  80  sheep.  The 
whole  was  valued  at  £6.  This  manor  was  half  a  league  long  and  4  quaren- 
tenes  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  I2d.  Roger  Bigot  also  held  here  40  acres 
and  2  ploughteams,  valued  at  ios.,  which  had  formerly  been  held  by  15 
freemen  under  commendation,  namely,  Goodrich  the  smith,  Edric,  Wool- 
nough,  Osulf,  Uluric,  Stanmar,  Levett,  Wihtric,  Blackman,  Manson,  Lewin, 
Woolmar,  Woolfer,  and  the  other  Woolfer  and  Leofstan.  Amongst  the  lands 
of  Roger  Bigot  we  find  a  holding  under  the  head,  "  Gulpelea,"  no  doubt 
Gulper  Hall,  in  Walton.  He  had  40  acres,  2  ploughteams,  and  i  acre  of 
meadow,  valued  at  55.,  which  had  in  the  Confessor's  time  been  held  by  5 
freemen  under  commendation  to  Norman.  The  Survey  says:  "It  is  2 
quarentenes  long  and  2  broad,  and  pays  in  a  gelt  3^.'" 

The  only  other  holdings  here  were  those  of  Hugh  de  Montfort  and  the 
Abbot  of  Ely.  The  former  consisted  of  24  acres,  valued  at  45.,  which  had 
formerly  been  held  by  a  freeman  named  Lure,  under  commendation  to 
Norman,  but  which,  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  was  held  by  this  Norman  of 
Hugh  de  Montfort,  the  Abbot  of  Ely  having  the  soc.2  The  latter  consisted 
of  the  land  which  Hervey  de  Berri  held  of  the  abbot,  and  had  formerly 
held  of  the  King  against  whom  the  abbot  had  proved  his  right.  It  was  a 
freewoman  named  Alveva  with  16  acres,  under  the  abbot's  commendation, 
and  2  bordars  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  35. 3 

There  are  two  entries  in  the  Great  Survey  under  the  head  Wadgate, 
which  is  a  hamlet  of  Walton.  They  both  were  held  by  Roger  Bigot ;  one 
was  of  5  freemen  under  commendation  to  Norman — Leverich,  Moregrim, 
Aldwulf,  Gooday,  and  Godwin,  with  20  acres,  i  ploughteam,  and  half  an 
acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  45.  The  Survey  says:  "It  is  2  quarentenes  long 
and  2  broad,  and  pays  in  a  gelt  2d."  The  other  holding  was  of  15  acres 
and  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  35.  It  had  belonged  to  Wihtmar,  holding  8 
freemen— Langfer,  Fegar,  Brumar,  Gooday,  Edward,  Goodrich,  Aldwulf, 
Osketel,  under  commendation  to  Wihtmar,  and  Langfer  and  Aldwulf  under 
commendation  to  Norman  in  the  Confessor's  time.4 

There  are  three  other  holdings  of  Roger  Bigot  under  the  head 
"  Buregata,"  which  most  probably  relate  to  this  place.  The  first  was  of 
13  freemen  who  had  been  under  Norman  in  the  Confessor's  time.  These 
were  Goodrich,  Sereman,  Swain,  Leofri?,  Morcar,  Swetman,  Sprot,  Good- 
rich, another  Goodrich,  Woolmar,  Aluric  Stick-Stack,  Coleman,  Long 
Goodrich,  and  Seward.  (14  seem  to  be  enumerated ;  probably  the 

'Dora.  ii.  3396,  340.  sDom.  ii.  3856. 

2Dom.  ii.  4066.  4Dom.  ii.  340. 


ii6  THE   MANORS   OF   SUFFOLK. 

Domesday  enumerators  were  confused  by  the  "  Goodriches.")  These 
freemen  had  80  acres  of  land,  6  bordars,  3  ploughteams,  and  i  acre  of  meadow 
valued  at  305.  The  estate  was  half  a  league  long, and  4  quarentenes  broad, 
and  paid  in  a  gelt  2od.  Of  the  above  one  was  a  half  freeman  under  Edric,  and 
he  was  called  Aluric  Stick-Stack.  The  second  holding  consisted  of  20  acres, 
4  bordars,  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  55.  at  the  time  of  the  Survey, 
held  by  Wihtmar  of  Roger  Bigot,  but  apparently  formerly  held  by  the 
said  Wihtmar,  who  was  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Goodrich.  The 
third  holding  was  of  15  acres  and  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  35.,  formerly 
held  by  9  freemen,  named  Aldwult,  Aluric,  Brihtric,  Osgood,  Gooday, 
Wihtmar,  Bruman,  \Vickens,and  Leverich,  under  Norman's  commendation.' 

WALTON  MANOR. 

This  was  the  estate  of  Norman  in  Saxon  times,  and  he  held,  after  the 
Conquest,  of  Roger  Bigot,  who  was  the  Domesday  tenant  in  chief.  The 
manor  descended  in  the  Earl  of  Norfolk's  family  to  the  death  of  Maria, widow 
of  Thomas  de  Brotherton,  Earl  of  Norfolk,  1362,  in  the  same  course  as  the 
Manor  of  Framlingham,  in  Loes  Hundred.  In  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Roger 
le  Bygod,  Earl  of  Norfolk,  in  1270,  where  an  extent  is  given,  the  manor  is 
said  to  have  included  a  marsh  called  "  Le  Holm,"  a  marsh  at  "  Faunten- 
ham,"  a  pasture  called  "  Crostonecroft,"  a  pasture  at  Kenebrok,  55.  rent  for 
cultivating  vines  at  Framlingham,  and  95.  rent  for  customs  of  ships  at 
Stanbake  and  Gustun,  and  to  have  been  held  of  the  Bishop  of  Ely  by  the 
service  of  two  knights'  fees.2  Thomas  de  Brotherton  left  a  son  Edward,  who 
after  his  father's  decease  was  Earl  of  Norfolk  and  Marshal  of  England,  but 
he  died  the  King's  ward  the  same  year  as  his  father,  leaving  his  sisters 
Margaret  and  Alice  his  coheirs.  The  descent  of  the  manor  from  this  time 
to  the  time  of  Thomas  Howard,  3rd  Duke  of  Norfolk,  who  had  livery  in 
1524,  is  identical  with  the  Manor  of  Framlingham,  in  Loes  Hundred. 

The  Duke  and  his  son  Henry,  Earl  of  Arundel  and  Surrey,  exchanged 
this  manor  for  others  with  the  King,  and  the  exchange  was  ratified  in  1544 
by  Act  of  Parliament,  the  36  Hen.  VIII.  In  1558  Queen  Elizabeth 
leased  the  manor  to  Thomas  Lambe  for  30  years.  From  the  Exchequer 
Depositions  taken  at  Wickham  Market  in  1579  we  learnt  that  a  curious 
action  was  pending  at  that  time.  It  was  as  to  whether  ancestors  of  certain 
persons  were  called  Blackman,  and  if  so  whether  villeins-regardants  to 
Manor  of  Walton-cum-Trymley.  The  action  was  brought  by  Sir  Henry 
Lee  against  Thomas  Blacke,  sen.  and  jun. 

In  1603  the  manor  was  in  the  hands  of  the  King,  and  in  1611  in  the 
hands  of  the  Queen.  In  1619  a  grant  of  the  manor  was  made  to  Henry 
Hobart  and  others,  but  the  extent  of  this  grant  does  not  appear.  It  is 
clear,  however,  that  it  was  by  no  means  absolute  in  its  terms,  for,  from 
the  State  Papers  for  1626  we  learn  that  a  warrant  was  issued  for  cutting 
down  pollard  trees  growing  "  on  the  King's  Walton-cum-Trimley  Manor," 
required  for  forts  in  Essex  and  Suffolk,3  and  in  1628  we  meet  with  a  grant 
of  the  manor  to  Edmund  Ditchfield,  John  Highlow,  Humphrey  Clarke,  and 
Francis  Mothely.  In  1634  ^  was  vested  in  Sir  Robert  Hitcham,  Knt.,  and 
a  curious  dispute  with  the  Corporation  of  Ipswich  as  to  the  rights  of  the 

1  Dom.  ii.  3396.  342.  de  Brothcrton,  I.P.M.,  36  Edw.  III. 

'I. P.M..  54  Hen.  III.,  File   38  (7).      See  pt.  ii.  9. 

Extent.  Roger  le  Bygod  and  Alicia  3S.P.  (1626),  571. 

his  wife  ;  Ib.  35  Edw.  I.  46.  Maria 


WALTON.  117 

manor  will  be  found  in  Bacon's  Annals  of  Ipswich,  p.  507  note.      In  1680 
the  manor  was  vested  in  Sir  John  Barker,  Bart. 

Amongst  the  State  Papers  in  1690  is  an  order  to  Capt.  Hammond, 
Deputy  Governor  of  Landguard  Fort  on  the  coast  of  Suffolk,  in  Walton-cum- 
Trimley  Manor,  and  to  Sir  John  Barker,  lord  of  the  same  manor.'  An 
action  was  brought  against  Sir  John  Barker  by  Sir  Robert  Hitcham,  Knt., 
touching  the  manor,  waste  to  common  lands,  and  lands  gained  from  the 
sea  there,  and  Grimston  Hall  and  Manors  of  "  Mossen  and  Stratton,"  and 
as  to  metes  and  bounds  and  common  of  pasture.2 

Sir  John  Barker  died  in  1696,  and  from  this  time  the  manor  has  passed 
in  the  same  course  of  descent  as  the  Manor  of  Grimston,  in  Trimley  St. 
Martin,  and  is  now  vested  in  the  Right  Hon.  Capt.  E.  G.  Pretyman,  D.L., 
of  Orwell  Park. 

Walton  was  a  place  of  note  long  before  the  Norman  Conquest,  and  it 
was  here  that  the  Earl  of  Leicester  landed  with  his  Flemings  in  1173,  and 
was  received  by  Hugh  Bigot,  Earl  of  Norfolk,  then  lord  of  the  manor  and 
castle  of  Walton.  In  1176,  as  Hollingshead  informs  us,  Hen.  II.  having 
experienced  so  much  trouble  with  the  castles  of  the  principal  nobles,  caused 
them  to  be  destroyed  and  levelled  with  the  ground.  This  was  so  effectively 
done  in  the  case  of  Walton  Castle  that  it  has  never  risen  since,  the  very  stones 
were  borne  away,  and  have  been  discovered  in  odd  places  in  the  surrounding 
district,  some  foot  paths  on  both  sides  of  the  road  having  been  paved  with 
them.  In  some  places  it  is  said  they  still  remain  entire.  At  the  same  time 
the  Castle  of  Ipswich  was  demolished. 

Walton  Castle  stood  upon  a  high  cliff  in  Felixstowe,  at  the  distance  of 
about  i  mile  from  the  mouth  of  Woodbridge  River,  and  two  miles  from 
Orwell  Haven  ;  part  of  the  foundation  of  the  west  side  of  it  was  a  hundred 
and  fifty  years  ago  still  to  be  seen,  being  then  one  hundred  and  eighty- 
seven  yards  in  length  and  nine  feet  thick,  and  went  by  the  name  of  "  Stone- 
works." How  much  longer  it  was  it  is  impossible  to  say,  the  sea  which  is  con- 
tinually gaining  upon  this  coast  having  swallowed  up  the  ruins  and  washed 
away  the  remainder  of  the  foundation.  There  can  be  no  doubt  but  Walton 
Castle  was  a  Roman  fortification,  as  appears  from  the  great  variety  of 
Roman  ruins,  rings,  coins,  &c.,  which  have  been  found  there.  It  is  thought 
to  have  been  built  by  Constantine  the  Great,  when  he  withdrew  his  legions 
from  the  frontier  towns  in  the  east  of  Britain,  and  built  forts  or  castles  to 
supply  the  want  of  them.  The  coins  taken  up  here  are  of  the  Vespasian 
and  Antonine  families  ;  of  Severus  and  his  successors  to  Gordian  the  third  ; 
and  from  Gallienus  down  to  Arcadius  and  Honorius.  It  is  certain  the 
castle  had  the  privilege  of  coining  money,  for  several  dies  have  been  found 
for  that  purpose. 

In  the  parish  of  Felixstowe,  about  a  quarter  of  a  mile  north  of  Felix- 
stowe, High  Street,  and  at  the  same  distance  east  from  Walton  bounds, 
are  some  ancient  and  considerable  ruins  of  a  magnificent  building,  which 
goes  by  the  name  of  "  Old-hall."  This  probably  was  erected  for  the  manor- 
house,  after  the  castle  was  demolished,  and  was  the  place  probably  indicated 
when  we  are  informed  that  "Edward  III.  laid  some  time  at  his  Manor  of 
Walton  before  his  enterprise  into  France"  in  1338.  He  sailed  from  the 
port  of  Orwell  the  i6th  July.  Here  also  the  same  monarch  confirmed  the 
charters  granted  to  the  Corporation  of  Ipswich  by  an  inspeximus  dated  at 
Walton  in  1339. 

'S.P.  2  W.  and  M.  467.  aExch.  Dep. 


n8 


THE    MANORS    OF    SUFFOLK. 


That  Roger  Bigot  claimed  to  have  wreck  of  the  sea  here  we  learn  from 
the  Hundred  Rolls,'  and  Ministers'  accounts  of  his  lands  here  52  Hen.  III. 
to  27  Hen.  VI.  will  be  found  amongst  the  Ministers'  accounts  in  the  Public 
Record  Office.1  A  grant  of  markets  and  fairs  was  made  to  Roger  Bigod 
in  1289. J  The  market  cross  was  standing  long  after  the  market  had  been 
disused.  The  extent  of  fees  held  here  by  the  Earls  Marshal  about  1400 
will  be  found  amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.4 
Extracts  from  court  rolls  of  the  manor  will  be  found  as  follows  :  1489, 
Add.  Ch.  10204  J  T497.  Add.  Ch.  10221  ;  1560,  Add.  Ch.  10229  >  I58°» 
Add.  Ch.  10234  y  ^QS,  Add.  Ch.  10239,  J4993  >  IO48,  Add.  Ch.  10252. 
And  the  Manor-Book  from  1620  to  1622  amongst  the  Additional  MSS.  in 
the  British  Museum.5 

On  the  Patent  Rolls  for  1384  there  is  a  confirmation  in  favour  of 
William  Gommyld  of  letters  patent  of  Margaret,  Countess  of  Norfolk, 
being  a  grant  for  life  of  the  office  of  chief  bailiff  of  Walton  Manor,6  and  also 
of  a  grant  to  John  Baron  of  the  custody  of  the  warren  and  game  of  Walton.7 
And  in  an  entry  on  the  same  Rolls  in  1400  there  is  the  recital  of  a  grant  by 
the  same  Margaret  to  William  Parker  for  life  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  this 
manor  by  letters  patent  which  were  taken  from  him  by  certain  men  who 
seized  the  Castle  of  Framlingham.  The  office  was  confirmed,8  and  the 
same  year,  on  the  same  Rolls,  we  find  an  inspeximus  and  confirmation  to 
William,  Lord  of  Wylughby,  of  letters  patent  dated  5  Sept.  23  Rich.  II. 
granting  to  him  Walton  Manor  during  the  minority  of  Thomas  Mowbray, 
son  of  Thomas  Mowbray,  late  Earl  Marshal,  or  so  long  as  it  should  remain 
in  the  King's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  the  said  Earl.9  On  the  Memoranda 
Rolls  two  years  later  is  an  acquittance  of  issues  of  the  manor  to  William, 
Lord  Willoughby.10 

Particulars  of  an  action  by  John  Browne  against  Francis  Colby, 
defendant,  as  to  the  close  called  the  "  Holme  "  parcel  of  the  Manor  of 
Walton,  which  complainant  sold  to  defendant  with  a  bond  of  indemnity, 
«Scc.,  will  be  found  amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  the  time  of  Queen 
Elizabeth." 

CALDECOTE  MANOR. 

William  de  Caldecote  died  seised  of  the  lordship  in  1315,"  whenit  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  John  de  Caldecote,  who  died  in  1331.  It  seems  to  have 
passed  in  his  lifetime  to  Sir  John  Holbroke,  Knt.,  and  from  him  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  Holbroke,  who  died  seised  of  it  in  1360,  when  it  went 
to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Holbroke,  who  died  in  1376. '3 

Later  Thomas  Cavendish  was  lord,  and  from  him  the  manor  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  William  Cavendish.'4 

Richard  Cavendish  held  in  the  time  of  Hen.  VIII.,  for  we  find  an  action 
in  the  Star  Chamber  brought  by  him  against  Alen  Goldingham,  &c.,  as  to 
common  of  pasture  in  Trimley  Heath  in  Walton  Manor.1* 


'ii.  197. 

"Bundle  1007,  No.  4,  20. 

J  Chart.  Rolls,  17  Edw.  I.  9. 

« Add  Ch.  19338. 

'Add.  MSS.  21041. 

6  Pat.  Rolls,  8  Rich.  II.  pt.  i.  24. 

Ub.  29. 

•Pat  Rolls,  I  Hen.  IV.  pt.  iv.  31. 

9 Pat.  Rolls,  I  Hen.  IV.,  pt.  ii.  25. 


10  M.  Trin.  Rec.  Rot.  18. 

"C.P.  i.  61. 

» I.P.M.,  8  Edw.  II.  25. 

'3  See    Manor   of    Holbroke,    in    Samford 

Hundred. 
"See  Manor  of  Grimston  Hall,  Trimley  St. 

Martin,  in  this  Hundred. 
"29  Hen.  VIII.,  Bundle  17,  356. 


WALTON.  119 

LANGESTON  MANOR. 

This  estate  seems  to  have  been  held  in  Saxon  days  by  Alnoth,  a  freeman 
of  Harold,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Norman  Survey  to  have  been  held  by 
Bernard  of  Roger  Bigot  as  Domesday  tenant  in  chief.  In  1336  it  was 
apparently  held  by  the  same  parties  as  held  the  Manors  of  Nacton,  Foxhole, 
Holbrook,  and  Tattingston,  for  this  year  we  meet  with  a  fine  of  all  these 
manors  levied  by  Sir  Thomas  de  Holbroke  and  Margaret  his  wife  against 
William  le  Neweman,  parson  of  Tattingstone  Church,  and  Nicholas  Bonde;1 
and  in  1353  another  fine  levied  by  the  said  Sir  Thomas  de  Holbroke  against 
John  Caperon,  parson  of  Tatyngston  Church,  and  Henry  Whit,  of 
Tatyngston.2  This  latter  fine  also  included  the  advowsons  of  the  churches 
of  Bucklesham,  Brendwenham,  and  Holton. 

In  1433  we  find  that  John  de  Langestone  held  a  fourth  part  of  a  fee 
here,  and  probably  this  manor  ;  beyond  this,  we  can  gather  little  or  nothing 
respecting  its  history  or  devolution. 


1  Feet  of  Fines,  10  Edw.  III.  28.  'Feet  of  Fines,  27  Edw.  III.  10. 


I2o  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

WITNESHAM. 

IE  holding  only  is  enumerated  here  in  the  Domesday  Survey. 
It  belonged  to  Walter  the  deacon,  and  consisted  of  3 
carucates  of  land,  10  villeins,  4  bordars,  6  serfs  (but  at  the 
time  of  the  Survey  5  only),  3  ploughteams  in  demesne,  4 
belonging  to  the  men,  10  acres  of  meadow,  3  rouncies,  8 
beasts,  68  hogs,  180  sheep,  30  goats,  and  7  hives  of  bees, 
valued  at  £12.  The  valuation  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor 
had  been  6os.,  and  the  estate  was  then  held  by  Lewin,  a  freeman.  The 
length  was  8  quarentenes  and  the  breadth  4,  and  it  paid  in  a  gelt  5^.' 

Finesford,  or  Finlesford,  which  is  probably  part  of  Witnesham,  is 
separately  mentioned  in  the  Survey.  There  were  five  holdings  here.  One 
of  Leveva,  a  freewoman  under  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  holding 
40  acres,  i  ploughteam,  and  3  bordars,  valued  at  6s.1  A  second  was  included 
amongst  the  lands  of  Roger  de  Oburville,  and  consisted  of  24  acres  and  I  acre 
of  meadow,  formerly  held  by  Tepekin  with  half  aploughteam,  and  a  freewoman 
with  half  an  acre,  valued  at  45. 3  The  third  holding  was  that  of  Walter  the 
Deacon,  having  in  demesne  what  26  freemen  under  commendation  to  the 
predecessor  of  Walter  had  held,  namely,  i  carucate  of  land,  of  which  the 
Abbot  of  Ely  had  the  soc.  In  Saxon  times  there  had  been  3  ploughteams, 
but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  2  only.  There  were  also  4  acres  of  meadow, 
the  whole  valued  at  405.  The  Survey  adds :  "  It  is  10  quarentenes  long  and 
3  broad,  and  pays  in  a  gelt  lod.  ;"4  but  it  could  hardly  have  been 
the  measurement  of  this  small  place.  The  fourth  holding  was  that  of  Roger 
de  Rheims,  and  consisted  of  6  acres  and  i  acre  of  meadow  belonging  to 
Newton,  in  another  Hundred.  This  was  held  of  Roger  by  Ralph.5  The 
fifth  holding  was  that  of  Geoffrey  de  Magnaville,  and  was  held  of  him  by 
William,  son  of  Sahala  de  Boville.  It  consisted  of  2  acres  valued  at  4^., 
which  had  been  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  Halden.  The  Abbot  of  Ely 
had  the  soc.6 

BURWASH  MANOR. 

John  de  Weyland  held  lands  here  in  1259,  and  had  a  grant  of  free 
warren  this  year.7 

In  1287  Richard  de  Brumpton  granted  a  messuage  and  2  carucates  of 
land  here  in  consideration  of  a  rent  in  kind  of  the  grantees  indemnifying 
him  against  the  services  to  Sir  Thomas  de  Weyland,  Knt.,  the  lord  Chief 
Justice,  and  his  son  John.  The  Lord  Chief  Justice  was  banished  in  1288, 
when  his  son,  John,  held  until  his  death.  He  had  a  grant  of  free  warren 
here  in  1304.* 

On  the  Patent  Rolls  in  1301  we  find  a  commission  issued  to  enquire 
touching  persons  who  broke  the  houses  of  J  ohn  de  "  Weylaund ' '  at  Witnesham, 
Clopton,  Blakehall,  Wantisden,  Onehouse,  and  Whelnetham,  cut  down  his 
trees,  and  carried  away  timber  of  the  said  houses  and  other  his  goods  there, 
and  at  "  Pettagh"  ;9  and  three  years  later  a  similar  commission  of  enquiry 
was  issued  relating  to  damage  and  trespass  in  the  manors  of  Witnesham, 
Clopton,  Blakeshall,  Wantisden,  Pettaueh,  Wlielnetham,  Onehouse.  and 
Middleton.10 

1  Dom.  ii.  4276.  «  Dom.  ii.  413. 

•Dom.  ii.  387.  i  Chart.  Rolls,  43  Hen.  IV.  3. 

'Dom.  ii.  405.  « Chart.  Rolls,  32  Edw.  I.  51. 

«Dom.  ii.  4276.  9  Pat.  Rolls,  29  Edw.  I.  6d. 

»Dom.  ii.  4236.  10  Pat.  Rolls,  32  Edw.  I.  14^. 


WITNESHAM.  121 

In  1307  a  fine  was  levied  of  this  and  other  manors  by  John  deWeyland 
and  Maria  his  wife  against  John  Olyver.1  John  deWeyland  died  in  1312,* 
and  the  manor  passed  to  his  brother,  Sir  Richard  de  Weyland,  and  from 
him  the  manor  appears  to  have  devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of 
Blaxhall  Hall,  in  Plomesgate  Hundred,  to  the  death  of  Anne,  Countess  of 
Warwick,  widow  of  Richard  Nevill,  the  King  Maker.  We  should  mention 
that  there  is  a  doubt  as  to  whether  the  manor  passed  from  Thomas  Despenser, 
Earl  of  Gloucester,  to  his  sister  and  heir,  married  to  Sir  Hugh  Hastings, 
Knt.,  and  afterwards  Thomas,  Lord  Morley  ;  for,  as  the  Earl  of  Gloucester 
was  in  1400  attainted  and  his  son  died  in  1414,  and  the  attainder  was  not 
reversed  until  the  first  year  of  Edw.  IV.,  it  is  not  easy  to  see  how  these 
persons  could  have  enjoyed  the  manor.3 

It  will  be  remembered  that  Isabel,  daughter  and  heir  of  Thomas  le 
Despenser,  on  the  death  of  her  husband,  Richard  Beauchamp,  Earl  of 
Worcester,  remarried  his  nephew,  Richard  de  Beauchamp,  5th  Earl  of 
Warwick,  having  obtained  a  papal  dispensation  for  the  marriage,  and  a  son 
of  this  marriage,  Henry  de  Beauchamp,  6th  Earl  of  Warwick,  K.G.,  did 
actually  hold  this  manor.  .1 

The  manor  was  in  1553  granted  by  King  Edw.  VI.  to  Edward  Nevill,4 
who  in  1558  had  licence  to  alienate  the  same  to  Robert  Gosnold  sen.  and 
Robert  Gosnold  jun.  The  sale  was  effected  by  fine  levied  in  1559  between 
Robert  Gosnold  and  others  and  the  said  Edward  Nevill  and  others.5 

Robert  Gosnold  died  in  1616,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  cousin  and 
heir,  Robert  Gosnold,  and  on  his  death  in  1638  passed  to  another  Robert 
Gosnold.  By  the  middle  of  the  Ijth  century  the  manor  had  passed  to  the 
family  of  Edgar,  for  in  1650  Thomas  Edgar6  held  his  first  court.  He  was 
Reader  of  Gray's  Inn,  15  Chas.  II.,  Recorder  of  Ipswich  in  1647,  and  M.P. 
for  Orford  1658-9.  He  married  Mary,  daughter  and  heir  of  Philip  Powle,  of 
London,7  and  died  i2th  April,  1692,  aged  90,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his 
3rd  son,  Devereux,  who  married  22nd  Sept.  1681,  Temperance,  sister  and 
heir  of  Capt.  Robert  Sparrow,8  and  died  in  1739,  being  buried  at  St.  Mary 
Tower,  3ist  Aug.  1739,'  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, Robert 
Edgar. 

Robert  Edgar  was  baptized  at  St.  Mary  Tower,  28th  July,  1682,  and 
was  High  Sheriff  for  the  county  in  1747.  He  married  twice,  his  2nd  wife 
being  Susan,  daughter  of  —  Harrington, '°  and  was  buried  at  St.  Mary  Tower 
28th  Oct.  1750.  The  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Mileson  Edgar, 
who,  by  his  will  dated  2nd  March,  1770,  devised  the  same  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Mileson  Edgar,  with  remainders  over. 

The  Manor  of  Witnesham  with  Cockfield  is  stated  to  have  been  held  in 
1855  and  1885  by  Mrs.  Woodham,  and  in  1896  by  Brig.-General  Surgeon 

'Feet  of  Fines,  I  Edw.  II.  27.    This  fine  "See  Manor  of    Clopton  Hall,  Wickham- 

seems  to  have  included  the  Manor  of  brook,  in  Risbridge  Hundred.  She 

Redhall    al.   Bromton,   under   the  was  born  7th  July,  1655,  and  was 

name  "  Brompton."  buried  at  St.  Mary's   Tower,  26th 

1 1.P.M.,  6  Edw.  II.  34.  December,  1754. 

JSee  E.C.P.  Bundle  66,  376.  9His  will  is  dated  gth  April,  1739. 

«  Originalia,  7  Edw.  VI.  2  Pars.  O.  Rot.  85.  I0  She  died  6th  April,   1764,  aged  57,  and 

'Fine,  Mich,  i  Eliz.  was     buried     at    St.     Stephen's, 

'See    Manor   of    Derneford,    Swefling,  in  Ipswich. 
Plomesgate  Hundred. 

7She  died  28th  Dec.  1695,  aged  80,  and 
was  buried  at  St.  Mary's  Tower, 
Dec.  3lst. 


122  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Charles  John  Meadows,  and  the  same  is  now  vested  in  his  eldest  son  Capt. 
Charles  A.  G.  P.  Meadows.1 

A  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  in  1564  by  Richard  Pykering  and  others 
against  Edward  Nevyll  and  others.1 

CURDON'S  OR  CARDEW'S  HALL  MANOR. 

This  manor  in  the  beginning  of  the  i6th  century  belonged  to  the 
Tyrell  family,  and  James  Tyrell  died  seised  of  it  7th  Sept.  1538,  when 
it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Tyrell.1  In  1544  the  manor  was 
acquired  from  the  said  John  Tyrell,  described  as  of  Stowmarket,  by  John 
Gosnold.4  In  1560  the  manor  was  vested  in  Robert  Gosnold,5  who 
died  in  1616,  and  from  this  time  to  the  time  of  Mileson  Edgar,  who 
took  under  his  father  Mileson  Edgar's  will,  dated  in  1770,  the  manor 
passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Burwash,  in  Witnesham, 
and  from  the  devisee,  Mileson  Edgar,  under  the  will  of  his  father,  Mileson 
Edgar,  who  died  i6th  June,  1830,  to  the  present  Capt.  Mileson  Edgar,  in  the 
same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Westerfield,in  Bosmere  and  Claydon  Hundred. 

Courts  Rolls  from  17  to  19  Hen.  VII. ;  I,  10,  15,  18,  19,  31,  and  34, 
36  Hen.  VIII.  (last  two  courts  of  John  Tyrell) ;  2  Edw.  VI. ;  4  and  5  Phil, 
and  Mary  ;  I  (courts  of  Robert  Gosnold  the  younger),  3,  5,  7  to  II,  13, 
15,  16,  19  Eliz.,  will  be  found  in  the  Public  Record  Office.6 

REDHALL  al.  BRAMPTON  al.  BROMPTON  MANOR. 

This  manor  was  probably  formed  out  of  the  estate  held  by  Lewin,  a 
freeman  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor,  and  of  Walter  the  deacon  in  the  time 
of  the  Conqueror.  On  the  opening  of  the  I4th  century  the  manor  was 
vested  in  Giles  de  Brewse  or  Brewosa.7 

In  1306  he  and  his  first  wife,  Joan,  levied  a  fine  of  the  manor  against 
Richard  de  Bello  Monte."  Giles  de  Brewse  died  in  1310,' and  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son,  Robert  de  Brewse.  Robert  died  under  age  in  1325, 10 
and  there  is  on  the  Close  Rolls  for  this  year  an  order  to  the  Escheator  to 
deliver  to  Katherine,  late  wife  of  Robert  de  "  Brewosa,"  who  died  a  minor, 
this  manor  under  the  name  of  "  Wytenesham  Manor,"  taken  into  the  King's 
hands  on  the  death  of  his  father,  Giles  de  Brewosa,  and  assigned  in  dower." 

Davy  enters  Edmund  Bacon  as  lord  in  1316,  Alice  de  Beaumont  for 
life  in  1326,  and  in  1341  Sir  Warin  Latimer,  Knt.  However,  this  may  be 
in  1361,  Sir  John  Brewse,  Knt.,  brother  of  Robert  and  son  of  Giles,  held  the 
lordship,  and  on  his  death  in  1389  the  same  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir 
John  Brewse,  from  whom  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Robert  Brewse, 
who  dying  in  1456  it  vested  in  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  Brewse,  who 
died  in  1482,'*  when  the  manor  went  under  his  will  dated  loth  July,  1479,' 3 
to  his  widow  for  life,  and  on  her  death  to  his  son  and  heir,  William  Brewse, 
who  died  28th  Oct.  1489,  leaving  two  daughters  coheirs.14 

'See  Manor  of  Redhall,  Witnesham.  »° Extent,  I.P.M.,  19  Edw.  II.  95. 

*  Fine,  Trin.  8  Eliz.  »  Close  Rolls,  19  Edw.  II.  30. 
'I.P.M.,  32  Hen.  VIII.  22.  "I.P.M.,  22  Edw.  IV.  50. 

'Fine,  Mich.  36  Hen.  VIII.  "Proved  at  Norwich  27th  April,  1483. 

'See    Netherhall    Manor,    Otley,  in   this        "See  Manor  of  Akenham,  in  Bosmere  and 

Hundred.  Claydon  Hundred, and  Vaux  Manor, 

6  Portfolio  204,  23.  in  Great  Wenham,  in  Samford  Hun- 

? See   Manor  of   Hasketon    Hall,  in   this  dred,   and   Hasketon   Hall   Manor, 

Hundred.  Hasketon,  in  this  Hundred.       He 

•Feet  of  Fines,  34  Edw.  I.  38.  was  buried  in  Fressingfield  Church. 

•  I.P.M.,  4  Edw.  II.  40. 


WITNESHAM.  123 

In  1488  Sir  Ralph  Greystock,  Knt.,  is  said  to  have  held  a  moiety  of 
the  manor,  which  went  to  his  cousin  and  heir,  Elizabeth.  We  find  in 
1493  Margaret  Peyton,  Thomas  Garneys,  and  later  Sir  John  Audley,  Knt., 
who  married  Muriell,  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Brewse  by  his  2nd  wife,  hold- 
ing, and  on  the  death  of  Sir  John  Audley,  i8th  April,  1530,'  the  manor  vested 
in  his  son  and  heir,  John  Audley,  on  his  death  in  June,  I534,2  passing  to  his 
brother  and  heir,  Edward  Audley.  Later  still,  it  seems  to  have  been  held 
by  Sir  Robert  Hitcham,  Knt.,  who  in  1630  sold  the  manor  and  the  advowson 
to  Daniel  Meadows,  of  Chatisham,  younger  son  of  William  Meadows,  of 
Witnesham.3  This  William  Meadows,  who  died  in  1588,  was  son  of 
William  Meadows,  of  Rushmere,  yeoman,  whose  will  is  dated  i4th  Sept., 
1541,  and  was  proved  Arch.  Suff.  9  Oct.  1542.  The  family  had  held  land 
in  the  parish  since  the  time  of  Hen.  II.  and  Daniel  the  purchaser  was 
lineally  descended  from  Peter  de  Medowe,  who  was  seised  of  land  in 
Witnesham  in  1188,  and  ancestor  of  the  Earls  Manvers. 

Daniel's  elder  brother  William  appears  to  have  purchased  Witnesham 
Hall  and  estate  (not  the  lordship)  previous  to  the  year  1614,  as  the  following 
passage  from  the  will  of  John  Minter,  of  Witnesham  Hall,  yeoman,4 
shows  : — 

"  Item,  whereas  William  Medowe  of  Coddenham,  and  Daniell  Medowe, 
of  Barham,  their  heirs  executors,  &c.  are  to  paye  at  dyvers  dayes  andtymes 
unto  myne  executors  for  and  towards  the  performaunce  of  this  my  last 
Will  and  Testament,  the  some  of  one  thousand  pounds  of  Lawfull  Englysh 
money  as  in  and  by  certain  writings  made  for  the  purchasing  of  Witnesham 
Hall,  and  lands  thereunto  belonging  at  Larg  appereth." 

William  Meadows,  who  appears  to  have  acquired  the  manor  from  his 
younger  brother  Daniel,  made  Witnesham  Hall  his  residence,  and  married 
Grissel,  daughter  of  John  Minter,  the  former  owner  of  the  mansion.  He 
died  in  1637,  and  left  issue  three  sons,  viz.,  Thomas  Meadows,  of  Pippes,  in 
Coddenham,  who  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  John  Lee,  of  Coddenham, 
and  widow  of  Barnabas  Blomfield,  of  Stonham  Aspal,  and  had  issue ; 
Daniel  Meadows,  who  succeeded  his  father  in  this  parish;  and  Ralph 
Meadows,  born  in  1600,  who  purchased  Henley  Hall  from  the  Dameronsin 
1630. 5  Daniel,  who  inherited  here,  married  Amy,  daughter  of  John 
Brame,  of  Campsey  Ash,  by  whom  he  had  a  son  and  a  daughter,  Daniel  and 
Mary. 

He  died  in  1675,  and  Daniel,  his  son,  succeeded.  Daniel  Meadows  the 
son  married  Joyce,  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Edward  Rivers,  of  Bricett  Magna, 
and  had  three  sons — Daniel,  who  died  without  issue  in  1684,  Edmund,  who 
died  under  age,  and  the  Rev.  John  Meadows,  who  was  born  in  1655  and 
inherited  the  lordship.  He  married  Bridget  Proctor,  and  dying  24th 
March,  1715  was  interred  together  with  his  wife,  who  died  in  1737,  in  the 
nave  of  the  church  of  Witnesham.  He  left  two  sons  and  a  daughter,  viz., 
John  Meadows,  who  married  Margaret  Buxton,  and  died  in  1750,  leaving 
an  only  daughter  Elizabeth,  the  wife  of  John  Williams,  Daniel,  and  Elizabeth 
married  to  the  Rev.  Thomas  Buxton,  of  Syleham. 

•I.P.M.,  23  Hen.  VIII.  8;   Will  I2th  Jan.  4  Will,  2nd  Sept.  and  proved  Arch.  Suff. 

1526-7,  proved  6th  June,  1532.  3rd  Dec.  1614. 

'I.P.M.,  27  Hen.  VIII.  19.  'See  Manor  of  Henley,  in  Bosmere  and 
'His   will   is  dated   24th   Aug.,     proved  Claydon  Hundred. 

Arch.   Suff.    22nd    Oct.    1580,    by 

Margaret  his  wife. 


124  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Daniel,  the  younger  son,  succeeded  to  the  lordship,  and  resided  for 
many  years  at  Botesdale,  but  died  at  Witnesham  I4th  Jan.  1771,  at  the 
advanced  age  of  90,  and  the  manor  passed  to  his  son,  John  Meadows, 
by  Frances  his  wife,  daughter  of  Francis  Thonylow. 

John  Meadows  married  in  1751  Frances,  the  youngest  daughter  of 
Humphrey  Brewster,of  Wrentham  Hall.  This  John  Meadowswas  appointed 
coroner  of  the  Liberty  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds  by  Rowland  Holt,  of  Red- 
grave Hall.  He  died  at  Botesdale  in  1763,  leaving  issue  two  sons  and  two 
daughters.  Daniel  Meadows,  the  youngest  son,  died  a  captain  in  the 
army  in  1779,  unmarried. 

Philip  Meadows,  the  eldest  son  of  John  Meadows  and  Frances  his  wife, 
for  many  years  practised  as  a  solicitor  at  Botesdale  until  the  year  1801, 
when  he  removed  to  Witnesham  Hall. 

On  the  death  of  his  mother,  he  purchased  an  estate  there  of  the  Earl  of 
Westmoreland,  and  in  1810  erected  thereon  the  mansion  called  "  Burghersh 
House,"  so  named  from  its  proximity  to  the  ancient  mansion  belonging  to 
the  family  of  the  Burghershes  of  this  parish.  It  was  enlarged  in  1819,  and 
is  approached  by  a  fine  avenue,  a  quarter  of  a  mile  in  length,  shaded  with 
trees. 

He  married  Catherine,  daughter  of  Robert  Rust,  of  Wortham,and  died 
i6th  Oct.  1824,  in  his  73rd  year,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  the  Rev.  Philip  Meadows,  of  Burghersh  House,  rector  of  Great  Beal- 
ings,  who  married  in  1804  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Morgan  Graves, 
M.A.,  rector  of  Redgrave-cum-Botesdale  and  Hinderclay,  by  Harriot 
James,  his  wife,  only  child  and  heir  of  Richard  Head,  whose  father, 
Sir  Thomas  Head,  Knt.,  was  the  father  of  Sir  Walter  James  James  (formerly 
Head),  Bart.,  D.C.L.,  who  took  the  name  and  arms  of  James  only  by  Act 
of  Parliament  in  1778  on  succeeding  to  the  estates  of  his  great -uncle,  John 
James,  of  Denford  Court,  co.  Bucks.  On  the  death  of  Philip  Meadows  he 
was  succeeded  by  his  son,  Daniel  Charles. 

The  manor  is  now  vested  in  Capt.  Charles  A.  G.  P.  Meadows,  of  Witne- 
sham Hall.1 

Arms  of  MEADOWS  :  Quarterly  i  and  4  Gules  ;  a  chevron,  Ermine, 
between  three  pelicans,  vulned  proper  ;  2  and  3  Sa.  a  chevron  Ermine, 
between  three  estoiles,  Argent  (for  BREWSTER). 

Court  Rolls  of  the  Manor  for  the  12,  14  Edw.  IV. ;  4,  II,  12,  17,  and 
29  Hen.  VIII. ;  2  Edw.  VI. ;  3,  7,  9,  12  Eliz.,  will  be  found  in  the  Public 
Record  Office.1 

A  fine  of  "  Witnesham  Manor  "  was  levied  in  1603  by  Milo  Branth- 
wayte  against  Philologus  Foorth  and  others.3 

In  the  Parish  Register  is  an  entry  as  to  the  pew  enjoyed  by  the  occu- 
pants of  Witnesham  Hall,  1721-2  :— 

"  Whereas  a  controversy  arising  concerning  a  Seat  or  Pew  under  the 
Pulpit  in  ye  Church  of  Witnesham,  was  by  consent  of  both  parties  referred 
to  my  determination,  and  whereas  upon  full  examination  of  witnesses  on 
both  sides  it  does  appear  that  for  about  sixty  years  or  as  far  as  memory 
can  go  backwards  it  has  been  ye  usage  or  custom  that  ye  women  inhabitants 
of  the  House  commonly  called  Witnesham  Hall  (now  in  ye  possession  of  Mr. 
John  Meadowe)  as  well  tenants  as  Proprietors  and  Likewise  ye  women 

'The  younger  branch  of  the  Meadows  'Portfolio  204,  24. 
family  is  represented  by  Earl  s  Fine,  Hil.  45  Eliz. 
Manvers,  of  Thoresby  Park,  Notts. 


WITNESHAM.  125 

inhabitants  of  the  House  commonly  called  Brick-House  (now  in  ye  possession 
of  Mr.  Robt.  Clarke)  as  well  Tenants  as  owners  have  sat  together  in  ye  said 
Seat  or  Pew  exclusive  of  all  others  unless  by  leave,  my  determination  therefore 
is  that  ye  said  Custom  or  Usage  be  continued  and  ye  Seat  as  now  enlarged 
(by  consent  of  the  Rector)  be  maintained  in  repair  joyntly  and  equally 
by  the  owners  of  the  house  aforesaid. 

"  GEORGE  RAYMOND, 
"  Commisary  and  Official. 
"  Witness— Robt.  Beaumont,  Rector."1 


The  following  entries  in  the  Domesday  Survey  have  not  been  identified 
as  in  Carlford  and  Colneis  Hundreds,  and  in  order  to  complete  the  work  so 
far  as  the  Survey  is  concerned,  the  entries  are  here  given. 

BARCHESTUNA. 

LANDS  OF  ROBERT,  SON  OF  CORBUTION. 

Depekin,  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Harold,  held  I 
carucate  of  land  as  a  manor.  Then  6  bordar  tenants,  now  4.  Then 
in  demesne  i  ploughteam,  now  none.  Then  7  ploughteams  belonging 
to  the  men,  now  none,  5  acres  of  meadow,  and  6  sheep.  Then  valued 
at  20s.,  now  at  125.  It  is  6  quarentenes  long  and  4  broad,  and  (pays) 
Zd.  in  gelt.1 

BOULGE.3 

LANDS  OF  RANULF,  BROTHER  OF  ILGER. 

Uluric,  a  villein  tenant  (holds)  4  acres.     Valued  at  8^. 

BRIHTOLVESTUNA. 

LANDS  OF  HUGH  DE  MONTFORT. 

(were)  18  freemen  under  commendation  to  Goodmund,  with  I 
carucate  of  land  and  20  acres.  4  bordars.  Then  10  ploughteams, 
now  5.  2  acres  of  meadow.  Wood  for  2  hogs.  A  church  with  6 
acres.  It  is  half  a  league  long,  and  2  quarentenes  broad.  And  (pays) 
10^.  in  a  gelt.4 

EDULVESTUNA. 

LANDS  OF  RANULF,  BROTHER  OF  ILGER. 
Are  9  acres.     Valued  at  zs. 

GUTHESTUNA. 
LANDS  OF  ROGER  BIGOT. 

Were  6  freemen  under  commendation  to  Norman — Moregrim, 
Gooding,  and  Leofstan,  Ulmar,  Gooding,  and  7  bordars,  with  40  acres, 
2  ploughteams  (and)  i  acre  of  meadow.  Valued  at  55.  It  is  2 
quarentenes  long,  and  2  broad.  And  (pays)  $d.  in  a  gelt. 

HOBBESTTUNA. 

LAND  OF  GEOFFREY  DE  MAGNAVILLE. 

A  freeman  under  commendation  to  Etheldreda  (?)  and  his  wife 
under  commendation  to  Halden,  in  King  Edward's  time  (held)  30 

1 E.  A.  N.  and  Q.,  v.  p.  373.  3  Probably  in  Wilford  Hundred. 

*Dom.  ii.  4256.  4Dom.  11.406, 


I26  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

acres.     Then  I  ploughteam,  now  none,     i  acre  of  meadow.     Always 
valued  at  55. 

In  the  same  (township)  Topi,  a  soc-man  under  commendation  to 
Saint  Etheldreda  (held)  25  acres.  Valued  at  3$. 

HOPESTUNA. 
LANDS  OF  ROBERT  MALET. 

A  freeman  under  Edric  held  25  acres  of  land.  Then  i  plough- 
team,  now  none,  and  I  bordar  tenant.  Then  valued  at  2  shillings  and 
8  pence,  now  at  4  shillings.  Saint  Etheldreda  hath  soc. 

IPSWICH. 

LANDS  OF  RANULF,  BROTHER  OF  ILGER. 

And  in  Ipswich  is  i  vacant  tenement  and  another  occupied,  and 
it  renders  8d. 

KALLETUNA. 

LANDS  OF  SAINT  ETHELDREDA. 

Isaac  now  holds.  Were  8  freemen  under  commendation  to  Saint 
Etheldreda,  having  i  carucate  of  land  and  2  bordar  tenants.  Then  3 
ploughteams,  now  i.  4  acres  of  meadow.  Valued  at  i6s.  It  is 
6  quarentenes  long  and  2  broad,  and  (pays)  2\d.  in  gelt.  The  man 
Isaac  holds  of  the  abbot. 

KINGESLANDA. 

LANDS  OF  RANULF,  BROTHER  OF  ILGER. 

(there  is)  i  carucate  of  land — waste  land — valued  at  2  shillings. 
It  is  4  quarentenes  long  and  3  broad,  and  pays  $d.  in  gelt.      All 
this  W.  de  Nemours  (?)  holds  of  Ranulf,  Ilger's  brother. 

KULVERTESTUNA. 
LANDS  OF  ROGER  BIGOT. 

(were)  7  freemen  under  commendation  to  Norman  in  King 
Edward's  time— Bering,  Goodrich,  Leverich,  Algar,  Wolvar,  Durrant, 
Aluric,  with  25  acres.  Always  i  ploughteam,  I  acre  of  meadow,  2 
mills.  Valued  at  55.  It  is  2  quarentenes  long  and  2  broad.  And 
(pays)  ^d.  in  a  gelt. 

LANDS  OF  HUGH  DE  MONTFORT. 

(were)  5  freemen  under  commendation  to  the  same  [Goodmund] 
with  21  acres  and  a  half.  Then  2  ploughteams,  now  i.  It  is  3  quaren- 
tenes long  and  2  broad,  (pays)  2d.  in  a  gelt. 

KYNGESTUNA. 
LANDS  OF  SAINT  ETHELDREDA. 

Saint  Etheldreda  in  King  Edward's  time  held  I  carucate  of  land 
as  a  manor.  Then  8  villein  tenants,  now  5,  now  8  bordar  tenants. 
Then  2  serfs,  now  i.  Always  in  demesne  2  ploughteams  and  3  plough- 
teams  of  the  men,  and  8  acres  and  a  half  of  meadow.  Wood  for  5 
hogs.  Always  I  rouncy  and  4  beasts,  and  30  sheep,  and  12  hogs. 
Always  valued  at  40  shillings.  It  is  4  quarentenes  long  and  3  broad, 
and  (pays)  $d.  in  gelt.  Others  have  holdings  there. 


DOMESDAY.  127 

LANGESTUNA,  probably  part  of  Felixstowe. 
LANDS  OF  ROGER  BIGOT. 

(were)  2  freemen  and  a  half,  Woolfer  and  Turbin  and  Raven  under 
half  commendation  to  Norman  in  King  Edward's  time,  with  30  acres, 
and  a  ploughteam  and  a  half  (and)  half  an  acre  of  meadow.  Valued  at 
IDS.  It  is  4  quarentenes  long  and  2  broad.  And  pays  4^.  in  a  gelt. 
And  the  said  Ralph  de  Turlaville  holds. 

A  freeman,  Alnoth,  Harold's  man,  in  King  Edward's  time.  Now 
Bernard  holds  of  Roger  Bigot ;  had  40  acres  and  a  villein,  and  3  bordars. 
Then  a  ploughteam  and  (the  same)  now.  Valued  at  10  shillings. 
And  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Allnot,  called  Sewin,  held  4 
acres,  valued  at  8d. 

LEOFSTANESTUNA. 
LANDS  OF  ROGER  BIGOT. 

(were)  2  freemen,  Burridge  and  Brightridge,  under  Norman's 
commendation,  with  20  acres,  and  a  bordar,  and  a  ploughteam,  2 
acres  of  meadow,  a  mill,  and  a  salt  pan.  Valued  at  IDS.  This 
Wihtmar  holds  of  Roger  Bigot. 

(were)  4  freemen  under  Norman's  commendation  in  King  Edward's 
time,  Blackman,  and  Durrant,  and  Sevin,  and  Ulrich,  with  14  acres. 
Always  half  a  ploughteam.  Valued  at  2s. 

In  the  said  (township)  were  8  freemen  under  commendation  to  a 
certain  man  of  Norman's— Blackman,  and  Brumar,  Edric,  Leofric, 
and  Alwin,  and  Woolbald,  and  Theodric  (and)  Leofleda,  with  12  acres 
(and)  half  a  ploughteam.  Valued  at  2s. 

MAISTANA. 
LANDS  OF  ROGER  BIGOT. 

The  said  Norman  held  over  them  in  King  Edward's  time,  were 
6  freemen  under  commendation  with  100  acres  of  land.  Edric,  and 
Burchric,  and  Woolbald,  and  Aluric,  and  Almar,  and  Woolrich.  And 

1  villein  with  4  acres.     And  4  bordars.     Always  among  them  three 
ploughteams,  2  acres  of  meadow.     Valued  at  20  shillings.     And  of 
these  (tenements)  (?)  Woolfer,  father  of  Woolbald,  was  a  man  half 
under  Edric,  Robert  Malet's  predecessor.     It  is  half  a  league  long,  and 

2  quarentenes  broad.     And  (pays)  <\d.  in  a  gelt. 

MYCELEGATA. 
LANDS  OF  ROBERT  MALET. 

A  freeman,  Levestan,  under  commendation  to  Edric  (held)  4 
acres.  Valued  at  I2d. 

LANDS  OF  ROGER  BIGOT. 

(were)  4  freemen  in  King  Edward's  time,  Regifer  and  Gooday  under 
commendation  to  Norman,  with  12  acres,  and  Leovestan  and  another 
Gooday,  under  commendation  to  Wihtmar  with  4  acres.  Always 
among  them  i  ploughteam.  i  virgate  of  meadow.  Valued  at  35. 
It  is  3  quarentenes  long  and  2  broad.  And  (pays)  zd.  in  a  gelt.  And 
the  said  Wihtmar  holds  (over  them). 


128  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

NORTUNA. 
LANDS  OF  ROGER  BIGOT. 

(were)  4  freemen  under  commendation  to  Norman — Manson, 
and  Wihtmar,  and  Durand,  and  Otti,  with  31  acres,  and  a  bordar, 
and  a  ploughteam,  and  an  acre  of  meadow.  Valued  at  IDS.  It  is 
6  quarentenes  long  and  2  broad.  And  (pays)  i2d.  in  a  gelt. 

The  said  Wihtmar  holds  a  freeman,  Aldwulf,  under  Norman's 
commendation,  with  20  acres,  and  3  bordars,  and  2  ploughteams 
(and)  2  acres  of  meadow.  Valued  at  55. 

A  freeman,  Goodwin  the  priest,  Harold's  man  in  King  Edward's 
time  (held)  60  acres  as  a  manor.  Always  3  bordars.  Always  in 
demesne  i  ploughteam.  And  half  a  ploughteam  belonging  to  the  men. 
Half  an  acre  of  meadow.  Valued  at  345.  And  3  freemen  (there  were) 
under  him  with  3  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam.  Valued  at  I2d. 

This  Thurstan,  son  of  Wido,  holds  of  Roger  Bigot. 

OXELANDA. 
LANDS  OF  ROGER  BIGOT. 

(were)  5  freemen  under  commendation  to  Norman — Blackman, 
Osbert,  Wihtric,  Goodrich,  Brihnoth,  with  42  acres,  and  4  bordars, 
and  2  ploughteams,  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow.  Valued  at  55. 
It  is  3  quarentenes  long,  and  2  broad.  And  (pays)  in  a  gelt  /\d. 

PLUGEARTH  OR  PLUGEARD. 
LANDS  OF  ROGER  BIGOT. 

(were)  6  freemen  under  commendation  to  Norman  with  30  acres— 
Osfert  and  Alwin,  and  Woolmar,  and  Ednoth,  and  Goodrich,  and 
Hardecnut,  and  under  them  (were)  4  bordars.  In  King  Edward's 
time  2  ploughteams,  now  I.  Half  an  acre  of  meadow.  Valued  at  45. 
It  is  2  quarentenes  long  and  2  broad. 

LANDS  OF  SAINT  ETHELDREDA  (was). 

And  in  a  gelt  (pays)  qd.  (Was)  a  freeman,  under  Etheldreda,  Edwin, 
with  2  acres.  Valued  at  4^.  And  now  the  said  Hervey  holds  of  the 
abbot. 

PRESTETUNA. 

LANDS  OF  RANULF,  BROTHER  OF  ILGER. 

Ten  freemen  under  commendation  half  to  Brihmar  and  half  to 
Quengeva,  his  mother.  One  of  these  was  under  half  commendation 
to  Saint  Etheldreda,  held  i  carucate  of  land  ;  now  there  are  9  bordar 
tenants  under  them.  Then  4  ploughteams,  now  2.  i  acre  of  meadow. 
Then  valued  at  205.,  now  at  IDS.  It  is  6  quarentenes  long  and  3  broad 
and  (pays)  6d.  in  gelt. 

STRUESTUNA. 
LANDS  OF  ROGER  BIGOT. 

(was)  a  freeman  under  Norman  called  Ulrich  with  16  acres,  and 
a  bordar,  and  half  a  ploughteam,  (and)  half  an  acre  of  meadow. 
Valued  at  2s.  It  is  5  quarentenes  long  and  2  broad.  And  in  a  gelt 
(pays)  6Jrf. 

(was)  a  freewoman  Durilda,  under  commendation  to  Norman  in 
King  Edward's  time  with  55  acres  of  land.  Now  Hugh  de  Hosden 
holds  of  Roger  Bigot.  7  bordars  and  a  ploughteam,  2  acres  of  meadow. 
Valued  at  405.  The  said  Hugh  [de  Hosden]  holds  3  freemen  (formerly) 
under  Norman, — Husteman,  Edric  and  Gooday,  with  6  acres,  valued 
at  I2d. 


DOMESDAY.  129 

TURSTANESTUNA. 
LANDS  OF  ROGER  BIGOT. 

(were)  3  freemen  under  commendation  to  Norman — Ernet  and 
Wihtric  and  Almar,  with  15  acres  and  i  ploughteam,  half  an  acre  of 
meadow.  Valued  at  35.  It  is  2  quarentenes  long  and  2  broad.  And  in 
a  gelt  (pays)  4^. 


R 


COSFORD     HUNDRED. 

COSFORDS  OR   COSFORT. 

S  bounded  on  the  east  by  the  Hundred  of  Bosmere  and 
Claydon  and  part  of  Samford  ;  on  the  south  by  the  Hun- 
dreds of  Samford  and  Babergh ;  on  the  west  by  Babergh ; 
and  on  the  south  by  the  Hundreds  of  Stow  and  Thedwestry. 
It  contains  30,532  acres  in  the  following  17  parishes  and 
38  manors: — 


Parishes. 


Manors. 


Parishes. 


Manors. 


Aldham  . . . 
Bildeston 


Brettenham 


Chelsworth 
Elmsett 


Hadleigh . . . 


Hitcham 


Kersey. 


Aldham. 
Bildeston. 
Brettenham  Hall. 
Ryes. 

IStanstead  al.   Stan- 
street  Hall. 
Willisham's. 
Chelsworth. 
Elmsett. 
(Hadleigh  Hall. 
Plessis  or  Pond  Hall. 
Toppesfield  or  Top- 

pesfield  Hall. 
Mansers  or  Hadleigh 

in  Hadleigh. 
Cosford  Hall. 
Hitcham. 

Witherton    al.  Wit- 
herton's  (Bar- 
nard's and  Man- 
ton's). 

Manton  or  Manton's. 
Loose  Hall  in  Lose. 
("Kersey. 

\  Sampson's  Hall. 
(The  Priory. 


Kettlebaston 
Leyham 

Lindsey 

Naughton    . . 

Nedging 

Semer 


Thorpe 

Morieux 


Wattisham 


Whatfield 


Kettlebaston. 

(Leyham  or  Nether- 

bury  Hall. 
(Overbury  Hall. 

Lillesley  or  Lindsey 

or  Lindsey  Hall. 
IBeaumond's  Hall  or 
(    Beaumont's. 

Naughton. 

Nedging. 

Semer. 

[Thorpe  Morieux. 
I  Gorget's    or  Gorges. 
Throgton    al.   Thru- 
ton  al.  Castell's. 

Wattisham  Hall. 

Whatfield  Hall. 
Berrard's  Hall. 
Peyton's  or  Manner's. 
Hornham. 
Forneaux. 
iTuddenham's. 


In  the  3rd  of  Rich.  I.  Adam  de  Cokefield  released  his  claim  in  this 
Hundred  to  the  abbot  of  St.  Edmunds,  and  in  the  gth  of  Edw.  I.  the  fee 
was  in  the  said  abbot ;  but  since  the  dissolution  of  that  house  it  has  been 
and  now  is  in  the  Crown,  and  the  government  in  the  Sheriff  and  his  officers. 


132 


THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

ALDHAM. 

DHAM  was  vested  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  in  Ulwin, 
and  consisted  of  5  carucates  of  land  and  a  half.  At  that 
time  there  were  7  villein  tenants,  6  serfs,  4  ploughteams  in 


demesne  and  4  belonging  to  the  men,  7  acres  of  meadow, 
wood  for  8  hogs,  2  mills,  3  rouncies,  10  beasts,  80  hogs, 
and  140  sheep,  and  the  value  was  £8.  In  Norman  times 
the  value  had  been  increased  to  £15,  but  there  seems  to 
have  been  a  general  decrease  all  round.  The  villeins  had  come  down  to 
4,  the  serfs  to  2,  the  ploughteams  in  demesne  to  3,  and  those  belonging  to 
the  men  to  4.  The  beasts,  it  is  true,  had  increased  to  8,  but  the  hogs  had 
come  down  by  20,  and  the  sheep  to  60.  There  was  a  church  benefice  with 
7  acres  and  the  Domesday  tenant  in  chief  was  Aubrey  de  Vere.' 

Also,  amongst  Aubrey  de  Vere's  lands,  we  find  5  acres  formerly  held 
by  a  freeman  by  commendation  only,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  Abbot  of 
St.  Edmunds.  The  value  was  placed  at  lod.  Aubrey's  holding  (though 
it  is  not  quite  clear  from  the  Survey  that  the  reference  is  to  this),  was  8 
quarentenes  long  and  7  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  $d.~ 

Among  the  lands  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  we  find  "  In  Ferdinga 
de  Ealdham  tenuit  Sanctus  Edmundus  tempore  Edwardi  regis  6  liberos 
homines  et  alia  Watefelda  10,"  which  the  late  Lord  John  Hervey  rendered 
thus,  "  In  the  quarter  curacate  (?)  of  Aldham  in  King  Edward's  time  St. 
Edmund  held  6  freemen  and  in  the  other  Whatfield  10."  They  had  ij 
carucates  of  land,  6  teams,  4  bordars,  and  6  acres  of  meadow,  and  could 
give  and  sell  their  land.  The  soc,  commendation,  and  all  customs  belonged 
to  the  abbot.  The  value  was  formerly  305.,  which  had  increased  to  405. 
at  the  time  of  the  Survey.  This  holding  also  paid  in  a  gelt  $d.,  and  was  held 
in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  by  the  abbot.  Of  this  land,  Berard  held  40 
acres  and  i  ploughteam,  valued  at  IDS.  out  of  the  said  value.  These 
two  townships  the  Survey  states  to  be  6  quarentenes  long  and  3  broad,  and 
pay  6d.  in  a  gelt.  Others  had  holdings  here.  In  Aldham  also  there  was  a 
church  with  two  acres  of  land. 

ALDHAM  MANOR. 

The  Domesday  tenant  married  Beatrix,  daughter  of  Henry  Castellan, 
of  Bourbourg,  and  had  five  sons.  He,  towards  the  end  of  his  days,  assumed 
the  cowl,  and  was  buried  in  the  church  of  Colne  Priory,  which  he  had  founded, 
and  was  succeeded  by  his  son,  Alberic  de  Vere,  who  was  Lord  High  Chamber- 
lain of  England,  t.  Hen.  I.  From  Alberic  de  Vere  to  the  year  1462  the 
manor  descended  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manors  of  Earls  Hall,  Cockfield, 
and  Lavenham,  in  Babergh  Hundred. 

Aldham  will  be  found  specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m. 
of  Robert  de  Vere,  5th  Earl  of  Oxford,  who  died  in  1296  ;3  Robert,  6th  Earl, 
who  died  in  1331  without  issue,4  when  the  King  took  homage  of  his  nephew, 
John  de  Vere,  the  7th  Earl  ;5  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  John  de  Vere,  7th 
Earl,  who  was  slain  before  the  walls  of  Rheims  in  1360  ;6  and  of  Matilda , 
his  wife  ;7  of  Sir  Thomas  de  Vere,  8th  Earl,  who  married  Matilda .  the  daugh- 
ter of  Sir  Ralph  de  Ufford,  and  died  in  1371"  and  also  in  the  inquisition  p.m. 


'Dom.  ii.  419. 

•Dom.  ii.  419. 

'Extent  I.P.M.,  24  Edw.  I.  62. 

4I.P.M.,  5  Edw.  III.  71. 

'Originalia,  5  Edw.  III.  40. 


6I.P.M.,  34  Edw.  III.  84. 

7 1. P.M.,   40   Edw.    III.   38;    Originalia, 

45  Edw.  III.  26. 
•I.P.M.,  45  Edw.  III.  45  ;  Matilda,  I.P.M., 

14  Hen.  IV.  17. 


ALDHAM.  133 

of  Alice,  daughter  of  John,  Lord  Fitz  Walter,  the  widow  of  Aubrey  de 
Vere,  who  in  the  16  Rich.  II.  had  by  Act  of  Parliament  the  family 
honours  restored  to  him  as  loth  Earl  of  Oxford,  and  who  died  in  1400.' 

The  manor  is  also  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Richard,  nth 
Earl,  who  died  in  1417. 2  It  seems  that  Alice,  the  widow  of  Richard,  the 
nth  Earl,  without  licence  from  the  King,  and  holding  this  manor  as  part 
of  her  dower,  married  Nicholas  Thorley,  upon  which  the  manor  was  taken 
into  the  King's  hands.  The  manor  was  however  regranted  in  dower  on 
payment  of  a  fine  to  the  Crown.3  Alice  died  in  1452,  when  John,  her  son 
and  heir,  succeeded. 

In  1462  the  manor  was  forfeited  with  the  Earl  of  Oxford's  other 
estates  on  the  execution  of  Sir  John  de  Vere,  I2th  Earl,  and  the  manor  was 
granted  by  the  King  to  his  brother,  Richard,  Duke  of  Gloucester,4  but  John's 
eldest  surviving  son,  John  de  Vere,  was  temporarily  restored  in  I47O,5 
and  ultimately  rose  to  the  position  of  Lord  High  Steward  and  Lord  High 
Admiral  of  England  under  Hen.  VII.,  and  of  Lord  Great  Chamberlain  of 
England  under  Hen.  VIII.  He  died  in  1512. 

The  manor  had  been  granted  by  the  Crown  in  1473  to  Sir  John  Howard, 
Lord  Howard,  but  it  ultimately  returned  to  the  I3th  Earl,  who  died  in  1539, 
and  was  succeeded  by  his  son,  John  de  Vere,  I4th  Earl,  who  died  in  1562, 
and  was  succeeded  by  Edward  de  Vere,  I5th  Earl,  who  sold  the  manor 
in  1580  to  Philip  Tilney.  He  was  succeeded  in  1603  by  his  cousin  and 
heir,  Emery  Tilney,  who  died  in  1606,  being  succeeded  by  Thomas  Tilney, 
who  sold  the  manor  to  Sir  Edward  Coke,  Knt.,  in  1609.  Sir  Edward, 
the  great  legal  commentator  and  Lord  Chief  Justice,  was  twice  married, 
and  had  by  his  first  wife,  Bridget  Paston,  of  Huntingfield,  ten  children, 
seven  sons  and  three  daughters. 

Of  the  sons  Edward  died  an  infant,  and  Robert,  baptized  at  Hunting- 
field  3rd  Oct.  1587,  received  the  honour  of  knighthood.  To  him  the  manor 
passed  on  the  death  of  his  father.  He  married  Theophilia,  daughter  of 
Thomas,  Lord  Berkeley,  by  whom  he  had  no  issue,  and  died  igth  July,  1658, 
aged  67. 

Through  this  Sir  Robert  Coke  the  London  library  of  Sir  Edward  Coke 
came  into  the  possession  of  the  Berkeley  family,  and  was  by  George,  the 
I4th  Earl  Berkeley,  presented  in  1680  to  the  corporation  of  Sion  College. 
The  manor  passed  to  Sir  Robert's  brother  and  next  male  heir,  John  Coke, 
baptized  at  Huntingfield  4th  March,  1590.  He  married  Meriel,  daughter 
of  Anthony  Wheatley,  of  Hill  Hall,  co.  Norfolk,  by  whom  he  had  six  sons 
and  nine  daughters.  She  died  4th  July,  1636,  and  there  is  a  monument 
to  her  memory  in  the  chapel  on  the  south  side  of  Holkham  Church.  He 
died  at  Honington  in  1661,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  youngest  son  and 
heir,  John  Coke,  who  died  unmarried,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  cousin, 
Richard  Coke,  of  Thorington,  the  son  of  Henry,  5th  son  of  Sir  Edward 
Coke  and  of  Margaret  his  wife,  daughter  and  heir  of  Edward  Lovelace. 

Richard  Coke  married  Mary,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Rous,  Bart.,  by 
whom  he  had  a  son  Robert,  who  succeeded  to  the  Holkham  estate  on  the 
death  of  John  Coke,  and  the  greater  part  of  Sir  Edward  Coke's  property. 
This  manor  was  Robert's,  who  married  Lady  Ann  Osborn,  daughter  of 
Thomas  Duke,  of  Leeds,  by  whom  he  had  an  only  son,  Edward,  to  whom 

'I.P.M.,  30  Hen.  VI.  14.  <  Rolls  of  Parl.  vi.  228. 

'  I.P.M.,  4  Hen.  V.  53.  s  See  I.P.M.,  John,  Earl  of  Oxford,  15  Edw. 

'  Pat.  Rolls,  5  Hen.  VI.  pt.  ii.  6-1.  IV.  38, 


I34  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

the  manor  passed  on  the  death  of  his  father,  loth  Jan.  1679,  in  his  agth 
year.1 

Edward  Coke  married  Carey,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Newton,  of  Glouces- 
tershire, and  died  i3th  April,  1707,  and  his  widow  soon  afterwards.  They 
had  three  sons  and  two  daughters,  and  the  manor  passed  to  the  eldest  son, 
Thomas  Coke.  He  was  made  Knight  of  the  Bath  in  May,  1725,  in 
1728  Lord  Lovel,  of  Minster  Lovel,  in  Oxfordshire,  and  in  1744  Viscount 
Coke  and  Earl  of  Leicester.  He  married  2nd  July,  1718,  Margaret  Tufton, 
one  of  the  daughters  and  coheirs  of  Thomas,  6th  Earl  of  Thanet,  to  whom 
Geo.  II.  confirmed  her  right  by  descent  to  the  Barony  of  Clifford.  By  her  he 
had  an  only  son  Edward,  who  married  Mary  Campbell,  5th  daughter  of 
Field  Marshal  the  Duke  of  Argyle,  and  died  at  Greenwich,  3ist  Aug.  1753, 
in  the  lifetime  of  his  parents  without  issue. 

Lord  Leicester  died  20th  April,  1759,'  when  the  Earldom  of  Leicester 
became  extinct,  but  his  estates  devolved  (on  his  widow's  death  28th  Feb. 
1775)  upon  his  nephew,  Wenman  Roberts,  the  son  of  Lord  Leicester's  sister 
Anne,  and  he  assumed  the  name  of  Coke. 

In  1764  Sir  Joshua  Vanneck,  Bart.,3  purchased  the  estate,  and  the 
lordship  passed  on  Sir  Joshua's  death  in  1777  to  Sir  Gerard  William  Vanneck, 
his  son  and  heir,  who  died  in  1791,  when  it  passed  to  his  brother,  Sir  Joshua 
Vanneck,  Bart.,  who  was  created  Lord  Huntingfield  i5th  Aug.  1816.  After  Sir 
Joshua's  death,  namely,  6th  Aug.  1817,  the  manor  was  sold  for  £23,000. 
The  sale  included  the  estate  known  as  Aldham  Hall  Farm,  containing 
568  acres,  of  which  two-thirds  were  free  from  tithe,  all  then  let  at  a  rent  of 
£1,000  a  year.  Later  the  manor  became  vested  in  Thomas  Barrett 
Lennard,  in  right  of  Mary,  his  2nd  wife,  only  daughter  and  heir  of  Bartlett 
Bridger  Shedden,  of  Aldham  Hall,  who  died  in  1856,  and  is  now  vested  in 
his  son,  Sir  Thomas  Barrett  Lennard,  Bart.,  of  Belhus,  co.  Essex. 


1  There  is  a  monument  to  him  in  Tittleshall         3Sec   Heveningham    Manor,  in    Blything 

Church.  Hundred, 

'Will  proved  June,  1759. 


BILDESTON*  135 

BILDESTON. 

ILDESTON  was  held  in  Saxon  times  by  Queen  Edith,  with 
6  carucates  of  land.  In  this  extensive  domain  there  were 
14  villein  tenants  and  6  bordar  tenants,  8  serfs,  3  plough- 
teams  in  demesne,  3  belonging  to  the  men,  20  acres  of  meadow, 
wood  for  10  hogs,  3  rouncies,  10  beasts,  40  hogs,  and  80 
sheep.  Also  a  church  benefice  with  40  acres,  i  ploughteam, 
and  i  acre  of  meadow.  The  value  had  varied  considerably. 
Under  Queen  Edith  it  was  valued  at  £8,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Domesday 
Survey,  when  it  was  held  by  Walter  the  Deacon,  it  was  valued  at  £10,  but 
rendered  £12.  The  length  was  i  league  and  the  breadth  half  a  league,  and 
it  paid  in  a  gelt  $d.1 

BILDESTON  MANOR. 

Walter  the  Deacon  was  the  ancestor  of  the  Hastings  family.  We 
meet  with  Robert  de  Hastings,  Lord  of  Euston,  in  Essex,  as  lord.  He  married 
the  daughter  and  heir  of  William  de  Windsor,  and  had  a  daughter  and  heir, 
Delicia,  married  ist  to  Ralph  de  Cornhill,  to  whom  the  manor  passed.  Upon 
Ralph  de  Cornhill' s  death  his  widow  Delicia  fined  200  marks  to  the  King 
for  licence  to  marry  according  to  her  own  pleasure,  but  not  Godfrey  de 
Loveyn.  Godfrey,  however,  fined  double  the  amount,  namely,  400  marks, 
to  marry  her,  and  have  her  lands,  if  she  could  show  no  good  reason  for 
refusing  him.*  She  seems  not  to  have  been  able  to  show  any  good  reason, 
and  the  marriage  took  place.  This  Godfrey  de  Loveyn  or  Lovaine,  was 
brother  of  Henry,  Duke  of  Brabant,  and  he  held  the  manor  in  right  of 
his  wife  about  1200.  On  Godfrey's  death  in  1226  the  manor  passed  to  his 
son  and  heir,  Matthew  de  Loveyn. 

From  Testa  de  Nevill  and  the  Hundred  Rolls  we  learn  that  Matthew 
de  Loveyn  held  a  fee  here  of  the  King  in  chief,3  and  that  in  the  time  of  Hen. 
III.  he  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here.4  The  entry  in  Testa  de  Nevill  is: 
"  D'na  Helewis'  de  Gwerris  bis  dotata  fuit  per  dominum  Regem,  primo 
Will'  o  de  Pinkeney,  secundo  Will'  o  fil  Rob'ti,  et  dn'a  Matill'  de  Flamvill 
similiter  est  de  don'  d'ni  R.,  et  alie  sunt  maritande  sed  vetule  sunt,  et  maner" 
de  Bildeston  partita  est  inter  eas  et  val.  xxli.  et  est  de  baron'  Godefri  de 
Lovein  p'  hereditate'  uxoris  sue.  Math's  de  Lovayn  tenet  unu'  feod'  in 
Bildeston."  Robert  de  Pinkeney  was  one  of  the  claimants  for  the  Crown 
of  Scotland  in  1291. 

In  1242  this  Matthew  de  Loveyn  had  summons  (among  others)  to  fit 
himself  with  horse  and  arms  to  attend  the  King  in  vindication  of  certain 
injuries  received  from  the  French.  The  like  summons  he  had  to  be  in 
Chester  in  1258  to  restrain  the  hostilities  of  the  Welsh.  He  was  one  of 
those  barons  summoned  to  a  Parliament  convened  to  meet  in  London 
by  writ  dated  the  i8th  Oct.  1261,  and  died  in  I26i,5  being  then  seised  of 
this  manor  and  the  advowson  held  of  the  King  by  the  service  of  one  knight's 
fee  pertaining  to  his  barony  of  Estaines,  in  Essex,  and  205.  rent  for  the 
guard  of  the  Castle  of  Windlesowres,  leaving  Matthew,  his  son  and  heir, 
then  24  years  old,  who,  paying  £100  for  his  relief,  had  livery  of  his  lands. 

Sir  Matthew  de  Loveyne,  grandson  of  Godfrey,  was  summoned  in  1277 
to  perform  military  service  in  person  against  Llewelyn,  Prince  of  Wales. 
He  acknowledged  the  service  of  one  knight's  fee  in  "  Eystanes  "  performed 
by  himself  in  the  comitiva  of  the  Earl  of  Oxford.  In  1282  he  was  again 

'Dom.  ii.  426.  3T.  de  N.  291 ;   H.R.  ii.  151,  199. 

3  See  the  Great  Roll,  2  John,  Rot.  3,  6,         4H.R.  ii.  153. 

Essex  and  Herts.  5 1.P.M.,  46  Hen.  III.  File  26  (18). 


136  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK, 

summoned  to  render  service  against  the  Welsh,  and  again  in  the  same  year, 
when  John  de  Loveyne  performed  service  for  him.  Five  years  later  he 
was  called  with  horses  and  arms  to  a  military  council  at  Gloucester,  before 
Edmund,  Earl  of  Cornwall,  within  three  weeks  of  St.  John  Baptist,  isth 
July,  1287.  In  1294  he  had  summons  to  Parliament,  but  was  never  again 
summoned  there. 

In  1296  he  was  summoned  to  perform  military  service  in  person 
against  the  Scots. 

He  received  various  similar  summonses  in  1297,  1298,  1300,  and  1301, 
and  died  in  1302,'  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas,  then  only 
12  years  of  age.  Thomas  de  Lovaine,  or  Loveyn,  had  in  1314  licence  to 
settle  the  manor  on  himself,  Joan,  his  wife, and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  to  his  own  heirs/  and  the  following  year  we  learn  from  the 
Patent  Rolls  that  he  had  licence  to  enfeoff  Matthew,  parson  of  the  church  of 
Drinkstone,  and  another  of  the  manors  then  held  in  chief,  and  for  them 
to  regrant  to  Thomas  de  Loveyn  and  Joan  his  wife,  and  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  with  remainder  failing  such  issue  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said 
Thomas.3  Also  on  the  Rolls  of  Parliament  we  find  a  complaint  by  Thomas 
de  Loveyne  of  overcharge  for  scutage  in  respect  of  this  manor.4 

Sir  Thomas  Loveyne  was  summoned  to  perform  military  service  in 
person  against  the  Scots,  and  to  muster  at  Newcastle-upon-Tyne  within 
fifteen  days  from  St.  John  Baptist,  8th  July,  1316,  and  from  time  to  time 
received  various  other  summonses  to  perform  his  feudal  duties.  Thomas 
de  Loveyne  died  without  issue,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  brother  and 
heir,  Matthew  de  Loveyne,  who  died  in  1320,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his 
son  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  de  Loveyne.  He  in  1321  was  one  of  the  special 
conservators  assigned  in  the  Hundred  of  Dunmow,  in  Essex,  for  watching  and 
protecting  the  highways,  dispersing  seditious  meetings,  and  arresting  offenders. 

In  1322  his  arms  appear  entered  on  the  roll  of  the  Battle  of  Borough- 
bridge,  and  in  1325  he  was  one  of  the  commissioners  of  array  in  Essex,  the 
commission  being  tested  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  25th  Dec.  Sir  Thomas  de 
Loveyne  died  in  1345,'  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  John  de 
Loveyne,  who  married  Margaret,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Sir  Thomas  de 
Wistone  or  Wiston,  and  dying  in  1347,*  kft  two  daughters — Isabella,  who 
died  in  1359,  without  issue,  and  Eleanor,  eventually  sole  heir,  who  married 
Sir  William  Bourchier,  and  the  manor  then  passed  into  the  Bourchier  family. 

From  the  time  of  Sir  William  Bourchier,  who  died  in  I397,7  to  the  time 
of  Anne,  daughter  of  Henry  Bourchier,  2nd  Earl  of  Essex,  and  wife  of  Sir 
William  Parr,  Knt.,  Lord  Parr,  the  manor  passed  in  the  same  course  as 
the  Manor  of  Hopton,  in  Blackbourn  Hundred. 

The  manor  is  specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Henry, 
ist  Earl  of  Essex,  who  died  qth  April,  1483."  In  1541  a  licence  was  obtained 
by  the  said  Sir  William,  then  Lord  Parr,  and  Anne  his  wife,  to  alienate 
the  manor  and  advowson  of  Bildeston  to  William,  Earl  of  Southampton, 
Sir  Anthony  Brown,  and  Sir  Thomas  Wryothesley  as  trustees.9 

A  fine  to  carry  out  the  settlement  was  levied  the  same  year.10  This 
fine  included  also  the  Manors  of  Hopton,  Drinkstone,  Lovaynes,  Swilland, 
and  Shelland. 

1  Extent  I.P.M.,  30  Edw.  I.  37.    There  is  «  R.P.  ii.  403. 

an  assignment  of  the  manor  to  his  5I.P.M.,  Extent,  19  Edw.  III.  44. 

widow  Maud,  in  dower  on  the  Close  6I.P.M.,  21  Edw.  III.  22. 

Rolls,  30  Edw.  I.  ii.  7I.P.M.,  21  Rich.  II.,  10. 

•  I.Q.D.,  8  Edw.  II.  150.  N.R.  File,  108, 10.  8 1.P.M.,  i  Rich.  III.  31. 

3  Pat.  Rolls,  9  Edw.  II.,  pt.  ii.  21.  9S.P.  ii.,  1541,  1308  (16). 

"Fine,  Mil.  33  Hen.  VIII. 


BILDESTON.  137 

Sir  William  Parr1  was  by  letters  patent  dated  23rd  Dec.  1543,  created 
Earl  of  Essex,  and  on  the  accession  of  Edw.  VI.  was  by  letters  patent 
dated  i6th  Feb.  1547  advanced  to  the  Marquisate  of  Northampton.  In 
1551  he  was  made  Lord  Great  Chamberlain  of  England  for  life.  His  children 
by  his  wife  Anne  were  bastardized  by  Act  of  Parliament,  34  Hen.  VIII. , 
and  his  marriage  with  her  annulled  by  Parliament  5  Edw.  VI.,  and  the 
Suffolk  property  passed  at  Anne's  death  to  Walter  Devereux,  Baron 
Ferrars,  2nd  Viscount  Hereford,  created  Earl  of  Essex  4th  May,  1572, 
in  view  of  his  descent  from  the  family  of  Bourchier.  He  died  at  Button, 
22nd  Sept.  1576,  leaving  by  Lettice,  his  wife,  daughter  of  Sir  Francis  Knolles, 
K.G.,  sister  to  William,  ist  Earl  of  Banbury,  with  other  issue,  a  son,  Robert 
Devereux,  3rd  Viscount  Hereford  and  2nd  Earl  of  Essex,  K.G.  This  was 
the  well-known  favourite  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  Two  fines  were  levied 
against  him  of  this  manor — one  in  1589  by  John  Weaver  and  others,3 
the  other  in  1599  by  James  Anton.3 

The  manor  shortly  afterwards  passed  to  John  Rivett,  of  Bildeston  Hall, 
son  of  Thomas  Rivett,  of  Rishangles,  by  Jane,  daughter  of  Bartholomew 
Bolney,  of  Wetheringsett,  Thomas  Rivett  being  the  son  of  John  Rivett, 
2nd  son  of  John  Rivett,  of  Brockford. 

John  Rivett,  who  acquired  the  manor  of  Bildeston,  married  Elizabeth, 
daughter  of  George  Brooke,  of  Aspall,  by  Alice,  daughter  of  Sir  John 
Tyrell,  of  Gipping,  and  dying  in  1624  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
William  Rivett,  of  Bildeston  Hall,  who  married  ist  Mary,  daughter  of 
Gabriel  Warcope,  of  Hadleigh  and  Bildeston,  and  2ndly  Elizabeth,  daughter 
of  Sir  Anthony  Drury,  by  Bridget,  daughter  of  John  Spelman,  of  Narburgh, 
and  died  in  1643,  and  was  buried  at  Bildeston  Church.  On  what  was 
formerly  an  altar  tomb,  but  has  now  been  levelled,  is  the  following  inscrip- 
tion to  his  memory  : — 

Gulielmus  Rivett  armig.  olim  in  hoc  Comitatu  Justiciarius  Pacis  Anno 

Dom.  1643  obiit.     Necnon  Elizabetha  Charissima  ejus  censors,  filia  Dom. 

Ant.  Drury  in  agro  Norfolciensi  militis,  in  anno  1671  ab  hac  vita  migravit. 

Et  sub  hoc  marmoreo  lapide  tanquam  uno  simul  thalamo  dormientes  con- 

sopiti  jacent. 

Ecce  vir  hoc  saxo  cum  conjuge  subtumulatur, 
Quos  mors  disjunxit  scepe  reunit  eos. 

Arms  :  RIVETT  singly  impaling  Drury,  Argent,  on  a  chief  Vert,  a  tau 
between  two  mullets  pierced  Or ;  and  DRURY,  impaling  Rivett,  now 
destroyed. 

By  an  inquisition  taken  at  Ipswich,  6th  May,  21  Car.  [1645]  William 
Rivett  was  found  to  be,  18  Car.,  seised  inter  alia  of  the  Manor  of  Bildeston, 
holden  of  the  King  in  capite  by  knight's  service,  and  worth  £6.  William, 
his  son  and  heir,  aged  3  years. 

The  manor  passed  to  this  son  and  heir,  William,  being  a  child  by  the 
2nd  marriage  of  his  father  (all  his  three  sons  by  his  first  wife  having 
predeceased  him).  William  Rivett  married  Catherine,  daughter  of  Stephen 
Clarke,  and  died  in  1691.  The  following  inscription  to  his  memory,  and  to 
that  of  his  wife,  who  died  the  same  year,  appears  in  the  church  of  Bildeston  : — 

Hie  jacet  Guil.  Revett  armig.  in  hoc  com.  Justitiarius  ad  pacem,  hujus 
Manerii  dom'  et  Ecclesiae  Patron.'    Qui  ob.  decimo  die  Feb.  1691 

aetatis  suse  52. 

'See  Hopton  Manor, in  Blackbourn  Hun-          "Fine,  Mich.  31-32  Eliz. 
dred.  3Fine,  Mich.  41-42  Eli?, 


I38  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Arms:  RIVETT,  quartering,  Or.,  two  chevronels  Gules,  on  a  canton  of 
the  last  an  escallop  Argent.  CLARKE,  crest,  An  arm  erect  couped  at 
the  elbow,  in  the  hand  a  broken  sword. 

Hie  jacet  Catharina  uxor  Guil.  Revett  armigeri,  filia  unica  Steph.  Clarke, 
de  East  Bergholt  Generosi .    Quae  obiit  sexto  die  Septembris  Anno  Dom. 

1691,  aetatis  57. 

Arms  :  In  a  lozenge  RIVETT  and  CLARKE  quarterly. 

The  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  William  Rivett,  of  Bildeston  Hall. 
The  manor  subsequently  vested  in  Bartholomew  Beale,  only  son  of  Henry 
Beale,  of  Walton,  in  the  County  of  Buckingham.  He  died  6th  Sept.  1724, 
and  there  is  an  inscription  in  the  chancel  of  Bildeston  Church,  as  follows  : — 

Sacred  to  the  Memory  of  Bartholomew  Beale,  late  of  this  Parish, 
Esq.,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  who  lie  interred  in  the  Chancel  of  this 
Church  just  above  the  Family  Pew. 

He  was  the  only  son  of  Henry  Beale  (and  Sarah  his  wife),  late  of  Walton, 
in  the  county  of  Bucks.  Esq.  She  was  a  daughter  of  William  Killingworth, 
serjeant-at-law  in  London.  They  had  issue  two  daughters,  Elizabeth  and 
Jane,  the  elder  of  whom  was  married  to  William  Alston,  of  Bramford,  in  the 
county  of  Suffolk,  Esq.,  and  the  younger  to  Jacob  Brand,  of  Polstead,  in 
the  same  county.  He  died  6th  Sept.  1724.  She  died  ist  July,  1726. 

The  manor  passed  to  the  two  daughters,  and  was  held  by  them  jointly. 
William  Alston  was  a  barrister  of  Gray's  Inn,  and  died  in  1749,  at  the  age  of 
54,  and  his  eldest  son,  William  Alston,  succeeded  to  a  moiety  of  the  property. 
There  is  a  monument  on  the  north  aisle  of  Bramford  Church  to  the  memory 
of  William  Alston,  the  father  : — 

Sacred  to  the  memory  of  William  Alston,1  a  Barrister  of  Grey's 
Inn  late  of  this  Parish,  Esquire,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  who  lye 

1  The  following  is  a  sketch  of  the  descent  of  this  William  Alston  : — 

John  Alston  of  Newton 
t.  Hen.  VIII. 
I 


William  Alston  =  Ann,  dau.  of  Thos.  Symonds. 

Edward  Alston.  =  Alice  dau.  of  William  Colman 
of  Sayham  Hall 


William  Alston  =  Margery  dau.  and  coheir,  of  —  Holinsted, 
of  Maplested,  co.    Essex,   by  d.   of 
William  Bindloss,  serjeant-at-law. 

William  Alston  =  —  Nence.  of  Hadham,  co.  Hertford. 


William  Alston  =  Avise,  dau.  and  coheir  of  Jeffrey  Pitman, 
d.  1641.         I       of  Woodbridge. 


Samuel   Alston,  «=»  Alice,  dau.  of  Francis  Nicholson, 
of  Marlesford.      |       of  Chapell,  co.  Essex. 

Samuel  Alston,  =  Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Gregory  Wescomb. 
of  Marlesford.     I        of  Eltham,  CO.  Kent. 

William  Alston, 
of  Gray'*  Iqn. 


BILDESTON.  139 

interr'd  in  the  body  of  this  church.  He  was  the  only  Son  of  Samuel 
Alston  late  of  Marlsford  in  this  County,  Esquire.  She  was  the  elder  of 
the  two  Daughters  and  Coheirs  of  Bartholomew  Beale,  Esquire,  late  of 
Bildeston  in  this  County.  They  had  issue  Six  Sons,  three  of  whom, 
William,  Thomas,  and  Joseph,  survive.  She  dyed  16  May,  A.D.  1741 
set.  41.  He  dyed  26  July  A.D.  1749  aet.  54. 

Arms :  Alston  with  Beale  on  escutcheon  of  pretence. 
On  Jacob  Brand's  death  his  moiety  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  William 
Beale  Brand,  who  died  in  1799  without  issue,  and  on  his  death  went  to 
his  widow,  Anne  Mirabella  Henrietta,  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Smith,  Bart., 
who  died  in  1814,  and  was  succeeded  by  Thomas  William  Cooke,  of  Polstead, 
great-nephew  of  the  above-named  William  Beale  Brand,  from  which  time 
to  the  present  the  manor  has  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of 
Polstead,  in  Babergh  Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  Edward  Buckley 
Cooke,  of  Polstead  Hall,  or  possibly  is  still  in  the  trustees  of  his  father's 
(the  Rev.  Thomas  Alexander  Cooke)  will. 

Amongst  the  Tanner  MSS.  in  the  Bodleian  is  a  petition  to  the  House  of 
Lords  in  1637  by  Jonn  Rivett,  patron  of  Bildeston,  and  John  Ashley,  clerk, 
against  Bishop  Wren  for  refusing  to  institute  Mr.  Ashley,1  and  in  the  same 
collection  the  case  of  the  manor  and  church,  drawn  up  by  Bishop  Wren, 
together  with  his  account  of  Mr.  Ashley's  case.2 

Court  Rolls  of  the  manor,  23,  32,  and  36  Hen.  VI.  will  be  found  in  the 
Public  Record  Office.3  Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  the  time  of 
Queen  Elizabeth  is  a  claim  by  Bernard  Salter,  son  and  heir,  against 
William  Wade,  to  a  messuage  in  Bildeston,  parcel  of  this  manor.4 

Amongst  the  Ancient  Deeds  in  the  Court  of  Chancery  preserved 
in  the  Public  Record  Office  is  a  conveyance  dated  6th  Feb.  1455,  by  John 
Fray  and  John  Doreward  the  elder,  to  William,  abbot  of  St.  Mary's, 
Coggeshall,  Bennett  Burgh,  and  Thomas  Swatton,  clerks,  and  John  Worthy, 
of  Bildeston,  Drinkstone,  Hopton,  and  Shelland  Manors,  with  land,  &c.,  in 
Felsham  and  Gedding,  with  the  advowson  of  the  churches  of  Bildeston  and 
Drinkstone,  held  jointly  with  others  of  the  gift  of  Sir  Roger  Aston,  Knt., 
Thomas  Feryby,  clerk,  and  Robert  Rykedon.5 

We  do  not  pretend  to  explain  the  meaning  of  this  conveyance. 
Arms  of  LOVEYNE  :  Gul.  a  fesse,  Arg.  between  ten  billets  Or.  Of 
ALSTON  :  Azure,  semee  of  estoiles,  Or.  Of  BEALE  :  Sable,  on  a  chevron  Or. 
betw.  3  griffins'  heads  erased  Arg.,  as  many  estoiles  Gu.  Of  BOURCHIER  : 
Arg.  a  cross  engrailed  Gu.  between  four  watte  vurgels,  Sa.  Of  COOKE:  Per 
pale  Or,  and  Azure,  a  chevron  nebulee  between  three  cinquefoils  in  chief  and 
one  in  base  counterchanged,  quartering  Brand  and  Beale. 


1  Tanner,  xviii.  342.  4  C.P.  iii.  66. 

•  Tanner,  xviii.  344.  53i  Hen.  VI.  C.  2269. 

3  Portfolio  203,  5. 


140  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

BRETTENHAM. 

MANOR  was  held  here  by  Woolnough  in  Edward  the  Con- 
fessor's time,  with  4  carucates  of  land.  There  were  4 
villein  tenants,  and  19  bo rdar  tenants,  4  serfs,  2  ploughteams  in 
demesne,  and  2  ploughteams  belonging  to  the  men,  5 
acres  of  meadow,  and  wood  sufficient  for  2  hogs.  A  church 
benefice  with  24  acres,  also  i  rouncy  and  3  beasts.  The 
holding  was  valued  at  6os.  By  the  time  of  the  Domesday 
Survey  the  value  had  gone  up  to  ioos.,  but  the  serfs  had  come  down  to  2, 
while  there  were  4  hogs  in  lieu  of  2.  The  manor  was  then  held  by  Robert, 
Earl  of  Mortaign. 

The  Earl  also  had  32  acres,  which  Brien  had  added  to  it  with  half  a 
ploughteam  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  55.  4^.  The  manor  was 
12  quarentenes  long  and  6  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  iod.' 

In  this  place  and  Rushbrook  and  Thorp  was  also  an  estate  belonging 
to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmund.  In  the  time  of  the  Confessor  the  abbot  held 
14  freemen,  and  they  had  2^  carucates  of  land,  8  acres  of  meadow,  and  7 
bordars.  They  then  ploughed  with  5  teams,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey 
with  only  2.  The  value  in  Saxon  times  was  50$.,  but  only  305.  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey.  The  soc,  sac,  commendation,  and  all  customs  belonged  to 
the  abbot.  Of  this  land  Arnolf  held  7  freemen,  i  carucate,  and  30  acres 
of  land,  valued  at  155.,  as  part  of  the  above  value/ 

Among  the  lands  of  Richard,  son  of  Earl  Gislebert,  were  30  acres  and  i 
ploughteam,  valued  at  55.,  which  had  formerly  been  held  by  8  freemen.3 

MANOR  OF  BRETTENHAM  HALL. 

In  the  time  of  Hen.  III.  Richard  de  Clare,  Earl  of  Gloucester,  held  the 
lordship,  and  from  this  time  to  the  death  of  Gilbert  de  Clare,  4th  Earl  of 
Gloucester,  the  manor  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Sudbury, 
in  Babergh  Hundred.  On  the  death  of  Gilbert  de  Clare,  4th  Earl  of  Glouces- 
ter, his  possessions  devolved  upon  his  three  sisters  as  coheirs,  and  this  manor 
probably  fell  to  his  2nd  sister  Margaret,  who  had  married  ist  Piers  Gave- 
stone,  and  2ndly  Hugh  de  Audley,  who  was  eventually  created  Earl  of 
Gloucester.  He  was  patron  of  the  church  in  1344,  and  died  in  1347, 
leaving  an  only  daughter,  Margaret,  married  to  Ralph,  Lord  Stafford,  loth 
Baron,  created  Earl  of  Stafford,  5th  Mar.  1351.  He  died  3ist  Aug.  1372, 
and  was  succeeded  by  his  only  surviving  son,  Hugh  de  Stafford,  summoned 
to  Parliament  as  Baron  de  Stafford,  8th  Jan.  1371,  and  2nd  Earl  of  Stafford, 
K.G.,  who  in  the  retinue  of  the  Black  Prince  greatly  distinguished  himself, 
and  made  a  pilgrimage  to  the  Holy  Sepulchre  in  1385.  He  married  the  Lady 
Philippa  Beauchamp,  2nd  daughter  of  Thomas,  3rd  Earl  of  Warwick,  and 
dying  26th  Sept.  1386,  was  succeeded  by  his  eldest  surviving  son,  Thomas 
de  Stafford,  3rd  Earl.  He  married  Lady  Anne  Plantagenet,  daughter  of 
Thomas  of  Woodstock,  Duke  of  Gloucester,  but  died  without  issue  4th 
July,  1392.  It  is  useless  to  pursue  this  clue  further,  for  it  is  clear  that  by 
1392  presentations  to  the  church  of  Brettenham  afford  no  clue,  as  by  this 
time  the  advowson  had  been  attached  to  the  Manor  of  Desning.4 

At  the  beginning  of  the  I5th  century  the  manor  was  vested  in  William 
Sampson,  from  whom  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Sampson.  The 

'Dom.  ii.  2916.  3Dom.  ii.  2976. 

3Dom.  ii.  369.  'I.P.M.,  16  Rich.  II.  27. 


BRETTENHAM.  141 

Sampsons  had  been  connected  with  this  place  for  many  generations  ;  as 
early  as  the  time  of  Edw.  II.  we  learn  from  the  Patent  Rolls  that  they  had 
flourished  here,  for  in  1318  we  find  a  commission  issued  on  the  complaint  of 
Ralph  Sampson  that  John  de  Brugg,  of  Cotenham,  Thomas,  son  of  John 
atte  Brug*  of  Cotenham,  and  others  assaulted  him  and  his  servants  at 
Brettenham,  and  led  away  his  horse  at  the  price  of  loos.1 

Thomas  Sampson,  of  Brettenham,  about  1421  married  Margery,  sole 
daughter  of  Sir  John  Felbrigge.  He  died  in  1439,"  when  the  manor  passed 
in  the  same  way  as  the  Manor  of  Playford,  in  Carlford  Hundred,  until  the 
death  of  Sir  Anthony  Felton,  K.B.,  in  1613.  The  manor  then  vested  in 
Sir  Robert  Houghton,  Knt.,  Judge  of  the  King's  Bench,3  and  from  him 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Francis  Houghton,  who  died  in  1629,  when  it 
went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Houghton. 

The  manor  was  then  acquired  by  Sir  George  Wenyeve,  Knt.,  and  as  the 
"  Manor  of  Brettenham  with  Rices  "  was  for  many  generations  in  the 
family  of  Wenyeve,  Brettenham  Hall  being  their  residence.  They  are  met 
with  in  the  parish  as  early  as  1452,  but  probably  did  not  acquire  the  manor 
until  about  1700.  From  the  Brettenham  Court  Rolls  it  appears  that  in  1496 
there  was  an  Edward  Wyneve,  a  copyhold  tenant,  and  in  13  Hen.  VIII.  a 
John  Wynneve  is  mentioned  as  a  tenant,  his  name  three  years  later  on 
the  Rolls  being  written  "  VVynef."  In  the  21  Hen.  VIII.  a  Margaret 
Winneve  appears,  her  name  being  spelt  in  different  places  as  "  Wyneif  " 
and  "  Weneff."  In  the  4  Edw.  VI.  a  Thomas  Weneyeve  is  a  copyhold 
tenant,  his  name  being  spelt  in  the  same  court  as  "  Wyneff."  Sir  George 
Wenyeve,  M.P.  for  Sudbury,  who  died  26th  May,  1706,  in  his  8oth  year, 
married  ist  Frances,  one  of  the  daughters  and  coheirs  of  Edward  Dudley, 
of  Clapton,  co.  Northampton,  who  died  23rd  Mar.  1568,  and  2ndly,  Christian, 
youngest  daughter  of  Dudley,  Lord  North  /  Sir  George  Wenyeve  was  succeeded 
by  his  2nd  son,  John,  a  child  by  his  2nd  wife.  John  Wenyeve  died  loth 
Dec.  1736,  and  his  widow  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  Christopher  Musgrave, 
Bart.,  24th  Sept.  1751,  having  had  nine  children,  all  of  whom  she  survived, 
except  Christian,  who  had  married  her  cousin,  the  Rev.  Edward  Wenyeve, 
only  son  of  George  Wenyeve,  the  eldest  son  of  Sir  George  Wenyeve  by  his 
ist  marriage. 

The  manor  seems  to  have  passed  after  the  death  of  John  Wenyeve  to 
Edward,  the  youngest  son  of  Sir  George,  who  lived  to  the  age  of  91,  and  died 
2gth  April,  1775,  when  it  passed  to  John  Wenyeve,  the  grandson  of 
George,  the  eldest  son  of  Sir  George,  by  his  ist  marriage.  He  was  High  Sheriff 
of  the  County  in  1784,  and  died  22nd  May,i8oi.  His  only  son,  George,  never 
married,  and  died  7th  Oct.  i8i4,5  when  the  estate  passed  to  his  sister 
Henrietta,  wife  of  Lieut.-Col.  John  Carnac,  who  dying  in  1831  left  a  son 
and  daughter  surviving,  namely,  Georgiana  Wenyeve  Carnac,  and  John 
George  Wenyeve  Carnac.  The  son  died  young,  and  the  daughter  married 
Edward  Fenton,  and  had  a  son,  John  Edward  Fenton. 

Brettenham  Park,  including  "  the  Manor  or  Manors  of  Brettenham 
with  Rising  and  Wetherden  Hall,  near  Bury  St.  Edmunds,"  producing  a 
rental  of  £3,000  a  year,  was  offered  for  sale,  i8th  Nov.  1836,  and  alleged 

1  Pat.  Rolls,  12  Edw.  II.  pt.  ii.  2id.  4She  died  I3th  April,  1708,  and  was  buried 
*  I.P.M.,  18  Hen.  VI.  58.  St.  Anne's,  Westminster,  near  the 

'See  Hitcham  Manor,  in  this  Hundred,  altar. 

and  Liffey  Hall,  Buxhall,  in  Stow  5WU1,  Feb.  1809. 

Hundred. 


142  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

by  the  Essex  Standard  to  have  been  sold  for  £81,000,  but  this  was  denied 
in  the  Ipswich  Journal  of  24th  Dec.  1836.  The  property  was  again 
advertised  for  sale,  28th  Aug.  1838,  and  finally  the  whole  property,  con- 
sisting of  1,750  acres,  was  ordered  to  be  sold  by  the  Court  of  Chancery,  i3th 
July,  1847.  About  the  year  1850  the  manor  was  acquired  by  Joseph 
Parker,  and  later  passed  by  purchase  to  Thomas  Bartholomew  Beale, 
who  was  formerly  in  the  Bengal  Civil  Service,  and  was  High  Sheriff  for  the 
County  in  1874.  He  married  Jane,  daughter  of  Edward  C.  Hill,  and  dying 
in  1889  the  manor  passed  to  the  trustees  of  his  will,  his  widow  having  the 
beneficial  interest.  It  was  sold  to  Mr.  Herbert,  and  in  1903  purchased 
from  him  by  the  present  lord  of  the  manor,  Thomas  Courtenay  Theydon 
Warner,  M.P.  for  North  Somerset,  1892-5,  and  for  Lichfield  Division  of 
Stafford  since  1896. 

Mr.  Warner  is  the  son  and  heir  of  Edward  Warner,  of  Highams,  co. 
Essex,  J.P.  for  Essex,  Middlesex,  and  Westminster,  D.L.  for  Essex,  and 
sometime  M.P.  for  Norwich,  by  Maria  his  wife,  daughter  of  Thomas  Carr, 
of  New  Ross,  co.  Wexford.  Mr.  Warner  derives  his  third  Christian  name 
from  the  fact  of  his  great -great-grandfather,  Edward  Warner,  having  been 
of  Theydon,  in  Essex.  Mr.  T.  C.  T.  Warner,  6th  Dec.  1883,  married  Lady 
Leucha  Diana  Maude,  6th  daughter  of  the  ist  Earl  de  Montalt. 

The  hall,  which  stands  in  a  park  of  150  acres,  was  for  a  short  time  the 
residence  of  Joseph  Bonaparte,  ex-King  of  Naples  and  of  Spain,  and 
brother  of  the  ist  Emperor  Napoleon.  It  has  seen  many  changes.  Altera- 
tions were  effected  at  the  beginning  of  the  last  century  by  Colonel  Carnac, 
and  the  mansion  has  undergone  extensive  alterations  and  improvements 
in  the  hands  of  its  present  proprietor.  The  River  Bret  or  Breton  takes  its 
rise  from  a  piece  of  water  in  the  park,  and  divides  the  parish  of  Brettenham 
from  that  of  Hitcham. 

Arms  of  WARNER  :  Per  bend  Arg.  and  Gu.  two  bendlets,  between 
6  roses  all  counterchanged. 

MANOR  OF  RYSES. 

This  manor  was  vested  in  Thomas  Sampson  in  the  time  of  Henry  VI., 
who,  dying  in  1440,'  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Sampson,  who 
died  about  1483.'  Sir  Thomas  Sampson  died  seised  2nd  Jan.  isn,3  when 
it  passed  to  his  nephew,  Thomas  Felton. 

From  this  time  the  manor  seems  to  have  passed  in  the  same  course  of 
descent  and  together  with  the  main  manor. 

MANOR  OF  STANSTEAD  alias  STANSTREET  HALL. 

In  the  reign  of  Edw.  VI.  this  manor  was  vested  in  Lord  William 
Howard,  and  in  1568  was  vested  in  Thomas,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  who  this 
year  sold  it  to  Robert  Rychars.4 

In  the  Calendar  to  the  Pleadings  relating  to  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster  in 
1594  is  notice  of  an  action  by  the  Attorney-General  against  John  Bemeshe, 
as  purchaser  of  Stanstead  Hall,  as  to  royalties,  franchises,  and  other 
profits,  &c.s 

'  I.P.M.,  18  Hen.  VI.  58.  4Fine,  Trin.  10  Eliz. 

1 1.P.M.,  i  Rich.  III.  35.  5  Cal.  to  Plead.  Duchy  of  Lane.,  36  Eliz.  32. 

JI.P.M.,  4  Hen.  VIII. 


BRETTENHAM.  143 

In  1609  the  manor  was  vested  in  John  Rivett,  of  Bildeston  Hall,  who 
married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  George  Burke,  of  Aspall,  by  Alice,  daughter 
of  Sir  JohnTyrell,  of  Gipping,and  died  in  1624,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his 
son  and  heir,  William  Rivett. 

Court  Rolls  for  30th  April,  1658,  and  gth  Dec.  1659,  are  in  existence, 
but  the  name  of  the  lord  is  not  given.  In  1662  the  manor  vested  in  Robert 
Bailtoft,  and  he  held  his  first  court  I2th  April,  1662,  and  another  court 
I2th  Nov.  1662.  He  sold  the  manor  to  Ralph  Meadows,  who  held  his  first 
court  23rd  June,  1665,  and  probably  (though  the  lord's  name  does  not 
appear),  courts  held  as  follows  :  i6th  Sept.  1666  ;  28th  April,  1668  ;  2yth 
May,  1670;  26th  Sept.  24  Car.  II.  ;  3rd  June,  38  Car.  II.  The  manor 
then  passed  to  William  Meadows,  who  held  courts  as  follows  :  3Oth  March, 
1681 ;  ist  Dec.  1681 ;  igth  Oct.  1682  ;  29th  Aug.  1683  ;  gth  May,  1684  ; 
i5th  May,  1690  ;  4th  Sept.  1696  ;  2gth  July,  1698  ;  yth  June,  1699  ;  24th 
June,  1700  ;  i6th  Oct.  1700  ;  6th  June,  1702  ;  24th  May,  1704. 

The  manor  was  then  acquired  by  John  Beaumont  and  Elizabeth  his 
wife,  who  held  their  first  court  i6th  Sept.  1712,  and  further  courts  I7th  Aug. 
1722  ;  I2th  Oct.  1723  ;  7th  Nov.  1723  ;  7th  March,  1728.  John  Beaumont 
then  died,  and  Elizabeth,  his  widow,  had  the  manor,  and  held  a  court  2gth 
June,  1731,  and  probably  also  the  courts  held  25th  July,  1731  and  6th 
Sept.  1731,  though  no  name  appears  in  the  Court  Rolls. 

The  manor  was  then  acquired  by  John  Wenyeve,  who  held  his  first  court, 
i6th  May,  1733.  By  1740  he  was  dead,  and  the  court  held  i7th  December, 
1740,  was  held  by  Henrietta  Wenyeve,  spinster.  Courts  were  held  3ist 
May,  1741 ;  i7th  Nov.  1749  ;  28th  March,  1758;  and  6th  July,  1758,  but 
the  name  of  the  lord  is  not  given.  The  manor  was  then  acquired  by  the 
Rev.  Abbott  Upcher,  who  held  his  first  court  28th  July,  1764,  and  courts 
loth  July,  1770,  and  24th  Feb.  1770. 

The  manor  then  passed  to  Peter  Upcher,  who  held  his  first  court  ist 
Nov.  1779.  He  also  held  courts  nth  Dec.  1779  ;  loth  April,  1787  ;  and 
24th  May,  1791. 

Courts  were  also  held  6th  March,  1798;  I5th  Nov.  1803;  and  23rd  April 
1819,  but  the  name  of  the  lord  does  not  appear. 

The  manor  about  1822  was  acquired  by  John  Foster,  of  Biggleswade, 
co.  Bedford,  who  held  his  first  court  6th  Dec.  1822.  He  also  held  courts 
24th  Oct.  1823;  28th  Nov.  1828  ;  28th  May,  1840;  i8th  Dec.  1840;  and 
3rd  Jan.  1844  ;  24th  Jan.  1844  ;  6th  July,  1847. 

John  Foster  by  his  will  dated  6th  Feb.  1847,  devised  the  manor  to  the 
use  of  his  son,  Blyth  Foster,  for  life,  with  remainder  to  such  uses  as  he  might 
appoint  by  deed  or  will  in  favour  of  children,  and  with  remainder  to  use  of 
his  first  and  other  sons  severally  and  successively  in  tail  general,  with 
remainder  to  the  use  of  the  daughters  of  the  said  Blyth  Foster,  equally  as 
tenants  in  common  in  tail  general,  with  cross  remainders  between  them,  with 
remainder  to  the  uses  afterwards  declared  in  respect  of  the  hereditaments 
devised  to  his  son,  John  Nathaniel  Foster,  for  life,  with  remainders  over. 
These  limitations  were  to  the  use  of  his  (testator's)  son,  John  Nathaniel 
Foster,  for  life,  with  remainder  to  such  uses  as  he  might  by  deed  or  will 
appoint  in  favour  of  his  issue,  with  remainder  to  the  use  of  all  his  sons  by 
his  then  wife,  Frances  Mary  Wedd,  spinster,  equally  between  them  as 
tenants  in  common  in  tail  general  with  cross  remainders  between  them. 

A  power  of  sale  was  given  to  John  N.  Foster,  and  Blyth  Foster  and 
John  N.  Foster,  the  sons,  were  appointed  executors.  John  Foster  died  7th 


144  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 


July,  1847,  and  his  wiN  was  Proved  in  tne  Prerogative  Court  24th  Sept. 
following.      Courts  were  held  i8th  Jan.  1852,  and  23rd  May,  1874. 

By  deed  dated  I4th  Aug.  1866,  made  between  John  Nathaniel  Foster 
of  the  ist  part,  Edward  John  Foster  of  the  2nd  part,  John  Alexander 
Kinglake,  serjeant-at-law  and  M.P.,  of  the  3rd  part,  and  Walter  Barnard 
Byles  and  Robert  Alexander  Kinglake,  of  the  4th  part,  being  a  settlement 
made  on  the  marriage  of  Edward  John  Foster,  son  of  the  said  John  N. 
Foster  by  his  wife,  Frances  Mary,  and  M.  P.  Kinglake,  an  infant  of  19 
years,  and  a  daughter  of  the  said  J.  A.  Kinglake,  the  said  John  N.  Foster 
appointed  the  manor  and  other  hereditaments  after  the  death  of  Blyth  Foster 
and  the  determination  of  the  uses  limited  in  favour  of  his  issue  by  the  above 
will,  and  after  the  death  of  John  Nathaniel  Foster  to  the  use  of  the  said 
Edward  John  Foster  in  fee.  By  the  same  deed  the  said  Edward  John 
Foster  granted  the  manor  and  other  hereditaments  to  William  Barnard 
Byles  and  Robert  Alexander  Kinglake,  upon  the  trusts  therein  declared  ; 
and  a  power  of  sale  was  given  to  the  trustees.  The  marriage  took  place 
i5th  August,  1866,  and  Blyth  Foster  died  4th  Oct.  1871,  having  been 
married  but  once,  namely,  to  Alicia  Jackson,  who  died  in  1864,  and  having 
had  no  issue. 

The  manor  passed  on  Blyth  Foster's  death  to  John  Nathaniel  Foster, 
his  brother,  for  life.  By  deed  dated  2Oth  Oct.  1876,  made  between  John 
Nathaniel  Foster  of  the  ist  part,  Walter  Barnard  Bylesand  Robert  Alexander 
Kinglake,  of  the  2nd  part,  Edward  John  Foster  and  Mary  Poole,  his  wife,  of 
the  3rd  part,  and  Richard  Newman,  of  Hadleigh,  of  the  4th  part,  the 
trust  for  sale  contained  in  the  settlement  of  I4th  Aug.  1866  was  exercised, 
John  Nathaniel  Foster  concurring  to  pass  also  his  life  estate,  and  the  manor 
was  sold  to  Richard  Newman,  who  thereupon  became  lord.  He  held  courts 
4th  Dec.  1876  ;  6th  Dec.  1876  ;  4th  Feb.  1878  ;  i8th  Feb.  1878. 

By  his  will  dated  3Oth  June,  1882,  Richard  Newman  devised  certain 
property  in  Hadleigh,  and  all  his  real  estate  unto  Emily  Powell  Newman, 
his  widow,  Alfred  Newman,  his  son,  and  John  Lawrence  Growse,  upon 
trust  for  sale,  and  dying  i6th  Jan.  1883,  his  will  was  proved  at  Bury  St. 
Edmunds  by  Emily  Powell  Newman  alone. 

By  a  deed  poll  dated  2Qth  March,  1883,  Alfred  Newman  and  John 
Lawrence  Growse  renounced  and  disclaimed,  and  by  an  indenture  dated 
27th  July,  1886,  made  between  Emily  Powell  Newman  and  Charles  James 
Grimwade,  of  Hadleigh,  solicitor,  the  manor  was  sold  to  the  said  C.  J. 
Grimwade,  who  thereupon  became  lord.  He  held  courts  23rd  Oct.  1889, 
and  23rd  Oct.  1895.  By  deed  dated  I3th  Dec.  1904,  the  said  Charles  James 
Grimwade  sold  the  manor  to  Walter  Arthur  Copinger,  of  Buxhall,  who 
forthwith  conveyed  the  same  by  deed  to  Colonel  John  Henry  Rivett-Carnac, 
A.D.C.  to  the  King,  as  representative  of  the  ancient  Suffolk  family  of 
Rivett,  who  held  this  manor,  according  to  Davy,  in  1609. 

The  copyholds  at  the  beginning  of  the  last  century  consisted  of  :  — 

1.  A  close  called  King's  Close,  in  Brettenham,  9  acres,  quit  rent  45.  4^., 
and  a  piece  of  land  called  Shepherds  Lay,  3  acres,  quit  rent  is.  6d.,  held  by 
William  Syer,  of  Brettenham. 

2.  Part  of  a  copyhold  messuage  wherein  Abraham  Fisher  lately  dwelt, 
rent  ijrf.,  held  by  Richard  Syer  (late  Thomas  Utlens). 

4.  The  residue  rent  i^d.  held  by  John  Fisher,  late  Abraham  Fisher. 
4.  A  messuage  called  Bellmans,  with  the  yard  and  gardens  and  pasture, 
2a.  ir.,  rent  2s.  2d.,  held  by  William  Sier,  of  Hitcham,  late  Thomas  Syers. 


BRETTENHAM.  145 

5.  Five  closes  of  land  called  Liverfield  lands,  in  Buxhall,  with  a  tene- 
ment thereon,  containing  10  acres,  rent  js.,  held  by  James  Grimwood. 

6.  A  piece  of  ground  whereon  a  tenement  did  stand,  rent  id.,  held  by 
George  Fairds. 

7.  A  messuage  called  Pearles,  rent  6d.,  held  by  Roger  Clemence. 

MANOR  OF  WILLISHAM'S. 

In  1383  Edward  de  Willisham  held  this  manor  of  the  Honor  of 
Clare,  and  it  was  later  in  the  seisin  of  Sir  Roger  Willesham.  In  1421 
John  Sampson,  of  Harkstead,  and  Katherine  his  wife,  daughter  and 
coheir  of  Roger  "  Wyllasham"  conveyed  a  moiety  of  the  manor  then  called 
"  Westhame's  "  by  fine  to  William  Hanyngfeld  and  Cecily  his  wife,  sister 
of  the  above-named  Katherine.1  In  the  time  of  Hen.  VIII.  the  manor 
was  vested  in  Thomas  Spring,  the  rich  clothier,  who  died  seised  of  it 
2Qth  June,  1523,*  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John  Spring,  then 
aged  50,  who,  dying  yth  Feb.  1547,  it  vested  in  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  William 
Spring,  Knt.,  who  was  then  18  years  of  age.3  In  1585  the  manor  was 
acquired  from  Sir  William  Spring  by  R.  Marshe.4 


1  Feet  of  Fines,  9  Hen.  V.  53.  3 1.P.M.,  2  Edw.  VI.  65. 

'I.P.M.,  15  Hen.  VIII.  17.  '•Fine,  Mich.  27-28  Eliz. 

T 


146  THE   MANORS   OP  SUFFOLK. 

CHELSWORTH. 


MANOR  was  held  here  by  the  Abbot  of  Bury.  It  consisted 
of  3  carucates  and  a  half  of  land,  8  villeins,  10  bordars,  4 
serfs,  2  plough  teams  in  demesne  and  4  belonging  to  the  men, 
12  acres  of  meadow,  i  mill,  and  2  rouncies.  The  live  stock 
were  slightly  altered  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  from  what  they 
were  in  Saxon  times — formerly  there  were  10  beasts,  16  hogs, 
and  30  sheep,  which  had  become  9  beasts,  20  hogs,  and  60 
sheep.  The  manor  was  valued  in  Saxon  times  at  £4,  and  by  the  time  of  the 
Survey  at  £5.  It  was  7  quarentenes  long  and  6  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt 
3jrf.  There  was  also  a  church  with  30  acres  of  land  and  i  of  meadow.' 

MANOR  OF  CHELSWORTH. 

Ethelfreda,  the  daughter  of  Alfgar,  had  this  lordship  of  the  grant  of 
King  Edgar,  and  at  her  father's  request  gave  the  same  to  the  abbey  of 
St.  Edmunds.5 

The  Saxon  Chronicle  mentions  Ethelfreda  the  Fair  as  a  favourite  of 
King  Edgar,  who  became  so  through  a  very  curious  adventure.  The  King 
being  a  guest  at  the  castle  of  one  of  his  barons,  fixed  his  affections  on  his 
daughter,  with  whom  he  proposed  to  pass  the  night.  The  family,  indignant 
at  the  monarch's  intentions,  but  afraid  to  oppose  his  will,  contrived  to 
substitute  a  beautiful  domestic  in  her  place.  Edgar  in  the  morning  dis- 
covered the  trick  played  upon  him,  but  was  so  much  pleased  with 
Ethelfreda  that  he  immediately  made  her  his  mistress,  and  she  so  con- 
tinued till  his  alliance  with  Elfrida.  This  circumstance  accounts  for  the 
bestowal  of  this  manor  upon  Ethelfreda,  and  led  to  her  giving  the  property 
so  acquired  to  the  abbey  of  Bury  by  way  of  expiation  for  her  criminal 
intercourse  with  the  King. 

Sampson,  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds,  by  a  fine  levied  in  the  tressemayns  of 
St.  Michael  in  the  4th  of  King  John,  granted  to  Benedict,  son  of  Richard 
de  Blakeham  in  fee  farm  the  said  manor,  with  those  of  Lackford,  Little 
Fornham,  Whepstead,  and  Nowton,  reserving  as  to  Lackford  the  gift  of  the 
church,  and  a  perpetual  rent  of  £13.  95.  6d.  payable  to  the  elemosynary  of 
St.  Edmunds  for  the  use  of  the  sick  dwelling  in  the  hospital  without  the 
gate  of  Risby.  Benedict  to  find  six  reasonable  trusses  of  straw  for  the  sick 
on  the  vigils  of  St.  Edmund,  the  Nativity,  and  Easter,  liveries  being  allowed 
from  the  convent  board  to  two  of  his  men  at  the  said  feasts,  and  to  one 
man  at  other  stated  periods  of  payment  of  rent.  And  the  said  Benedict 
to  keep  in  repair  the  stone  dwelling  of  the  brethren  with  their  chamber  and 
kitchen  ;  and  three  other  buildings,  that  is  to  say,  one  34  feet  long,  17  feet 
wide,  and  9  feet  high  under  the  beam  ;  another  20  feet  long,  15  feet  wide,  and 
7  feet  high,  and  a  third  39  feet  long,  8  feet  wide,  and  7  feet  and  a  half  high, 
and  also  to  enclose  a  poultry  yard,  and  to  keep  up  the  enclosure  of  the 
court  and  orchard. 

In  1231  Thomas  de  Blakenham,  the  son  and  heir  of  Benedict,  held,  and 
in  an  action  in  Hilary  term  this  year  brought  by  him  against  Richard,  abbot 
of  St.  Edmunds,  touching  the  service  of  the  mill  in  Chelsworth,  and  the 
farm  of  the  manor  of  the  parish  pleaded  that  he  held  the  mill  under  a  fine 
between  him  and  Abbot  Hugh  in  King  John's  time,  and  the  manor  under  a 
fine  between  Sampson  the  abbot  and  Benedict,  son  of  Richard  de  Blaken- 
ham, whose  heir  he  was. 

1  Dom.  ii.  3566.  » Grant  962,  Harl.  43  C  3. 


CHELSWORTH.  147 

In  1253  Benedict  de  Blakenham,  the  son  and  heir  of  Thomas,  had  a 
grant  of  free  warren  in  his  demesne  of  Chelsworth,  &c.'  He  (or,  as  some 
allege,  his  son  of  the  same  name)  was  steward  of  the  household  of  Eleanor, 
the  Queen's  mother,  and  a  witness  to  her  charter  of  foundation  of  St. 
Katharine's  Hospital,  near  the  Tower  of  London,  dated  5th  July,  1273. 
He  is  presumably  the  same  Benedict  de  Blakeham  who,  in  the  52nd  year 
of  Hen.  III.  made  restitution,  under  the  dictum  of  Kenilworth,  of  lands 
granted  to  him  by  the  Crown,  which  belonged  to  persons  concerned  in  the 
disturbances  against  the  King. 

He  had  assize  of  bread  and  beer  in  Chelsworth,  in  the  time  of  Edw.  I.2 
In  1271  he  married  Joan,  only  child  of  William  de  Hastings,  of  Eaton 
Hastings,  co.  Berks,  by  Isabella,  afterwards  wife  of  Bartholomew  de  Arden. 
Joan  at  the  time  of  her  marriage  was  about  16  years  of  age. 

Her  father  gave  with  her  in  frank  marriage  the  Manors  of  Southorp  and 
Thormerton,  in  Gloucestershire,  and  she  and  her  husband  joined  with  him 
in  levying  a  fine  of  his  lands  in  1272.  On  the  decease  of  William  de  Hastings 
in  1278  Benedict  did  homage  to  the  King  for  the  lands  of  Joan,  his  wife. 
Sir  Benedict  had  summons  for  the  expedition  against  the  Welsh  in  1282, 
and  dying  in  1284  left  Sir  Benedict  de  Blakenham,  his  son  and  heir,  a  minor 
in  ward  to  the  Queen  mother.  This  son  proved  his  age  in  a  trial  in 
I297.3  The  depositions  given  on  this  occasion  are  of  considerable 
interest,  and  as  given  in  Sir  Henry  E.  Austen's  History  of  Chelsworth, 
a  small  tract  of  53  pp.  printed  at  Hadleigh  in  1850,  are  as  follows: — 
"  Sir  John  Gedding,  Knight,  aged  50  years,  dwelling  6  leagues  from  Chels- 
worth, deposed  that  the  said  Benedict,  son  of  Benedict  de  Blakeham,  was 
twenty-one  years  of  age  on  the  morrow  of  the  Nativity  of  St.  John  the 
Baptist  then  last,  and  that  he  was  born  at  Chelsworth,  and  baptized  in  the 
church  there.  And  being  asked  how  he  knew  this,  said  that  Robert  de 
Gedding,  parson  of  the  same  church,  was  his  uncle,  and  died  four  days  after 
the  birth  of  the  said  Benedict ;  and  that  he,  Sir  John,  was  heir  of  the  said 
parson,  and  that  it  was  21  years  and  more  since  his  death." 

The  other  witnesses  in  order  deposed  to  the  same  facts  of  age,  place  of 
birth,  and  baptism,  each  giving  some  circumstance  in  proof.  "  Peter  de 
Denardeston,  Knight,  aged  40  years,  dwelling  a  league  from  Chelsworth, 
said  that  in  the  same  year  he  first  went  to  Cambridge  for  his  studies,  and 
heard  civil  law  there  for  4  years  ;  likewise,  that  at  Pentecost  next  before, 
in  the  same  year,  Guy  de  Mortimer,  son  and  heir  of  Richard  de  Mortimer, 
was  born,  and  afterward  became  his  ward  by  the  death  of  his  father,  who 
held  his  lands  of  him  by  knight's  service  ;  and  that  at  Pentecost  then  last 
the  same  Guy  made  proof  of  his  age,  and  was  seised  of  his  inheritance,  which 
had  been  in  the  custody  of  the  said  Peter. 

"  Hugh  de  Muryens  (Morieux)  Knight,  aged  50  years,  dwelling  a  league 
from  Chelsworth,  said  that  he  had  a  daughter  named  Joan,  still  living, 
who  was  born  at  Christmas  next  before  the  birth  of  the  said  Benedict, 
and  who  completed  her  age  of  22  years  at  Christmas  then  last ;  likewise, 
that  he  was  at  the  feast  when  the  mother  of  the  said  Benedict  was  churched 
or  purified,  and  there  was  at  table  with  them  Sir  Richard  de  Cokefeld,  and 
many  other  knights  then  deceased. 

'  Walter  de  Bernham,  Knight,  aged  60  years,  dwelling  6  leagues  from 
Chelsworth,  said  that  he  was  living  near  the  house  of  the  father  of  the  said 

'Chart.  Rolls,  57  Hen.  III.  3Abb.  of  PI.  25  Edw.  I.  Hil.  14. 

'H.R.ii.100. 


J48  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Benedict  when  he  was  born,  and  he  was  at  the  feast  when  his  mother  was 
churched,  together  with  many  other  knights,  Richard  de  Cokefeld  and 
others  then  dead.  Likewise  that  he,  the  deponent,  married  the  mother  of 
Edmund  de  Whelnetham  ;  which  Edmund  had  a  son,  John,  born  a  quarter 
of  a  year  and  more  after  the  birth  of  the  said  Benedict ;  which  John  was 
of  full  age,  and  had  livery  of  his  lands  from  the  lords  of  the  fee. 

"  Jolan  Sampson,  aged  40  years,  dwelling  2  leagues  from  Chelsworth, 
was  also  at  the  feast  on  the  churching  of  his  mother,  and  said  that  he  had  a 
bastard  son  called  Ralph,  who  was  born  a  year  before  the  birth  of  the  said 
Benedict,  which  Ralph  was  then  23  years  of  age. 

"  Osbert  de  Aldham,  aged  38  years,  dwelling  2  leagues  from  Chelsworth, 
said  he  was  in  the  service  of  Benedict  de  Blakeham,  the  father,  at  the  time  ; 
and  likewise  that  the  deponent's  own  mother  died  5  days  before  the  birth 
of  the  said  Benedict,  since  whose  death  it  was  22  years. 

"  Alan  de  Rokewode,  aged  40  years,  living  5  leagues  from  Chelsworth, 
said  that  in  the  same  year  he  was  made  Vice-Dean  of  Sudbury,  and  that 
was  the  3rd  year  of  King  Edward  ;  and  likewise  that  it  was  the  first  year 
when  he  purchased  lands,  by  which  he  well  remembered  the  birth  of  the 
said  Benedict. 

"  Henry  Milksop,  aged  40  years,  dwelling  half  a  league  from  Chels- 
worth, said  that  he  was  present  in  the  church  of  Chelsworth  when  the 
said  Benedict  was  baptized  ;  and  that  the  chaplain  who  baptized  him  was 
called  Sir  Nicholas  de  Cramaville,  and  he  was  still  living.  Likewise,  that 
in  the  same  year  he  entered  the  service  of  the  cellarist  of  St.  Edmund,  and 
was  his  bailiff  at  Semer  ;  which  was  22  years  ago. 

"  John  Mauvesyn,  aged  40  years,  dwelling  8  leagues  from  Chelsworth, 
said  that  he  had  a  son,  Robert,  a  scholar  at  Oxford,  who  was  born  two  days 
after  the  said  Benedict,  which  Robert  completed  22  years  at  the  feast  of 
St.  John  Baptist. 

"  Geoffry  de  Waldingfield,  aged  50  years  and  upward,  dwelling  5 
leagues  from  Chelsworth,  said  that  he  was  at  the  feast  when  the  mother  of 
Benedict  was  churched ;  likewise,  that  the  father  of  the  said  Benedict,  at 
the  Easter  before  in  the  same  year,  bought  the  homage  and  service  of  the 
said  Geoffry  from  Sir  Thomas  de  St.  Martin,  of  whom  he  previously  held  ; 
whence,  when  he  came  to  the  house  of  the  said  Benedict  the  father,  to  do  his 
service,  that  is  to  say,  at  the  feast  of  the  Nativity  of  St.  John  the  Baptist, 
he  found  the  mother  of  the  said  Benedict  in  childbed  ;  from  which  time  to  the 
feast  of  St.  John  Baptist  then  last  it  was  22  years. 

"  Hervey  George,  aged  60  years,  dwelling  4  leagues  from  Chelsworth, 
said  that  he  had  a  daughter,  Sarah,  who  was  born  at  the  Pentecost  before 
in  the  same  year,  which  at  the  then  next  Pentecost  would  be  twenty-two 
years ;  likewise,  that  he  was  bailiff  of  the  King  in  those  parts  for  eight  years, 
and  that  Benedict  was  born  in  the  next  year  the  deponent  entered  his  office  ; 
and  that  he  also  was  at  the  feast  when  his  mother  was  churched. 

'  Hugh  le  Ber,  aged  40  years  and  upward,  dwelling  2  leagues  from 
Chelsworth,  said  that  he  was  invited  to  the  feast  when  the  mother  of 
Benedict  was  churched,  but  that  he  was  unable  to  attend  on  account  of 
business,  for  that  he  was  a  merchant ;  likewise,  that  he  married  his  wife 
at  the  feast  of  Pentecost  next  before  the  birth  of  the  said  Benedict,  from 
which  time  to  the  next  Pentecost  would  be  22  years." 

On  6th  Feb.  1297-8,  Sir  Benedict  de  Blakenham  did  homage  to  the 
King  for  his  lands,  being  thereupon  summoned  to  perform  military  service 
beyond  the  seas.  Under  a  fine  levied  by  Thomas  de  Blakeham,  Hugh  de 


CHELSWORTH.  149 

St.  Philebert,  and  John,  his  son,  against  Benedict  de  Blakenham  in  1302, 
the  manor  was  settled  upon  Thomas  de  Blakenham  for  his  life  ;  with 
remainder  to  Hugh  de  St.  Philebert  and  John,  his  son,  and  the  heirs  of  John.1 
Benedict  de  Blakeham  seems  to  have  divested  himself  of  almost  all  his 
property  shortly  after  his  marriage,  reserving  a  life  estate  in  Chelsworth 
for  Thomas,  probably  his  next  heir.  Hugh  de  St.  Philebert  appears  to 
have  been  too  much  for  mild  Benedict.  We  find  Hugh  on  his  death-bed, 
in  the  presence  of  his  household,  acknowledging  to  Benedict  in  person  that 
he  had  much  wronged  him,  begging  his  foregiveness,  and  soliciting  the 
remission  of  £100,  the  arrears  of  an  annuity  of  £60  which  he  was  bound  to 
pay  Benedict  during  his  life  for  certain  lands  in  Berkshire  and  other  counties 
sold  to  him  by  Benedict,  and  in  compensation  for  which  Hugh  delivered  to 
him  a  release  of  his  right  in  the  lands  of  the  inheritance  of  Eufemia,  his 
mother,  in  Sulham. 

Hugh  de  St.  Philebert  died  in  1305,  and  John,  his  son  and  heir,  was  a 
ward  in  Court,  and  a  question  arose  whether  this  Manor  of  Sulham  thus 
granted  by  Hugh  de  St.  Philebert  to  Benedict  de  Blakeham,  and  which  he, 
it  is  said,  gave  to  Agnes  de  Somery,  had  not  been  given  in  prejudice  of  the 
heir.  Benedict  himself  became  one  of  the  household  of  Agnes  de  Somery, 
the  widow  of  Roger,  and  mother  of  the  powerful  John  de  Somery. 

To  this  lady  Benedict  gave  half  the  Manor  of  Sulham  during  his  life 
pro  sustenacione  sua,  for  his  board  and  lodging,  and  the  other  half  to  her 
absolutely,  no  doubt  in  consideration  of  her  protection.  The  last  we  hear  of 
Benedict  is  in  1311,  when  he  was  performing  military  service  as  one  of  the 
servientes  for  the  abbot  of  Evesham,  Agnes  de  Somery  being  then  dead. 
As  to  Thomas  de  Blakenham,  who  had  the  manor  for  life,  he  was  sum- 
moned in  1300  in  respect  of  his  lands  in  Lincolnshire  to  do  military  service 
against  the  Scots,  and  during  several  years  of  the  reign  of  Edward  I.  he  was 
deputy  steward  of  theLibertyof  St.  Edmund.  On  hisdeaththe  manor  passed 
according  to  settlement  to  Sir  John  de  St.  Philebert,  son  and  heir  of  Hugh. 
He  made  proof  of  his  age  and  did  homage  for  his  lands  in  1313,  and  three 
years  later  received  confirmation  of  free  warren  in  Chelsworth.2 

He  was  in  the  Scotch  war  in  1319,  and  at  the  battle  of  Boroughbridge 
in  1321,  where  his  banner  displayed  "  Bendy  of  six,  argent  and  azure." 
He  was  returned  to  Parliament  as  knight  for  the  counties  of  Berkshire, 
Gloucester,  and  Suffolk  in  1323,  and  was  allowed  his  writ  de  expensis  as 
knight  of  the  first  named  county  in  1327.  In  1324  he  was  in  the  wars  in 
Gascony,  and  in  1327  in  the  expedition  to  Scotland,  being  in  1331  appointed 
by  Edw.  III.  Governor  of  Bordeaux. 

He  levied  a  fine  of  the  manor  in  1333,  probably  by  way  of  settlement, 
the  fine  being  between  himself  and  Ada  his  wife,  and  John  de  Ille  and  Robert 
Mabiliun  de  Chelsworth.3  He  died  the  same  year,4  leaving  issue  by  Ada 
his  wife,  daughter  of  John  de  Botetourt,  Sir  John,  his  heir,  Thomas,  who 
died  without  issue,  Margery,  wife  of  Sir  Richard  de  Plays  (or  Plaiz),  Knt., 
Alice,  wife  of  Sir  Brian  de  Stapleton,  K.G.,of  Carleton  and  Wighill,  co.  York, 
and  Maud,  wife  of  Sir  Warren  Trussel,  which  Margery,  Alice,  and  Maud 
became  the  heirs  general  of  the  family  of  St.  Philebert  on  the  failure  of 
issue  of  their  brothers  John  and  Thomas. 

Sir  John  de  St.  Philebert,  the  son,  while  an  infant,  was  contracted  in 
marriage  to  Joan,  daughter  of  Robert  de  Ufford,  afterwards  Earl  of  Suffolk, 

1  Feet  of  Fines,  30  Edw.  I.  5.  3Feet  of  Fines,  7  Edw.  III.  26. 

'Chart.  Rolls,  10  Edw.  II.  20:  "I.P.M.,  7  Edw.  III.  35. 


150  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

a  match  agreed  upon  between  the  parents  in  1332.  This  lady  died  early 
without  issue,  and  lies  buried  in  the  priory  of  Woodbridge.  Sir  John  made 
proof  of  his  age  in  1347,  and  was  then  married  to  Margaret,  sister  and 
coheir  of  Edmund,  son  and  heir  of  Hugh  St.  John,  of  Basing,  which  marriage 
was  probably  the  occasion  of  his  being  summoned  to  Parliament  in  1348. 
By  her  he  had  an  only  child,  surnamed  St.  John,  who  survived  his  father 
but  died  an  infant  igth  Nov.  1361. 

In  1351  Sir  John  de  St.  Philebert,  the  son,  released  to  Sir  Richard  de 
Plays  all  his  right  in  the  Manor  of  Chelsworth.'  There  is  a  curious  licence 
on  the  Patent  Rolls  in  1353.  It  is  a  licence  from  the  Crown  for  the  abbot, 
prior  and  convent  of  St.  Edmund  to  release  "  Richard  Plaiz  "  and  his 
heirs  a  rent  of  24^  quarters  of  wheat,  59  quarters  i £  bushel  of  barley  malt, 
4  quarters  of  peas  or  beans,  1,400  sheaves  of  heather  (bri4ere),  or  20  cartloads 
of  straw,  stubble,  or  brushwood  for  roasting  (furnatione),  a  quarter  of  an 
ox,  half  a  flitch  (jresscencie)  of  pork,  i  goose,  and  five  hens,  and  of  finding 
for  them  for  two  weeks  in  the  year  six  servants  to  brew  at  his  costs  and  fuel 
for  brewing,  which  rent  was  in  ancient  time  assigned  to  the  portion  of  the 
prior  and  convent  separate  from  the  portion  of  the  abbot  due  from  the 
said  Richard  by  reason  of  his  manor  of  "  Chelisworth,"  in  Suffolk.2 

By  an  inquisition  taken  there  in  I36o3  it  was  found  that  Sir  Richard 
deceased,  who  died  beyond  the  seas,  "  die  Lunae  prox.  ante  fest.  nat.  B. 
Mariae,"  33  Edw.  III.  [1359]  held  jointly  with  Margery  his  wife,  then  living, 
the  Manor  of  Chelsworth. 

Sir  John  de  Plays  was  the  son  and  heir  of  Sir  Richard,  and  to  him  the 
manor  passed.  He  had  been  born  at  Chelsworth  in  1342,  and  therefore 
was  but  17  at  the  time  of  his  father's  death.4 

There  is  a  grant  of  the  manor  by  him  in  1363  amongst  the  Rawlinson 
MSS.  in  the  Bodleian.5  On  4th  Oct.  1363,  John  de  Bois,  cousin  of  Sir7 
Miles  Stapleton,  and  John  Charman,  parson  of  System,  confirmed  to  Sir 
John  de  Plays  and  Joan  his  wife,  daughter  of  Sir  Miles  de  Stapleton,  of 
Ingham,  co.  Norfolk,  and  the  heirs  of  their  body,  the  lordship  of  Chelsworth, 
with  remainder  to  Miles  Stapleton,  Sir  John  de  Sutton,  sen.,  of  Wivenhoe, 
in  Essex,  John  de  Cavendish,  &c.  This  was  on  his  second  marriage,  in 
order  to  dower  the  daughter  of  Sir  Miles  Stapleton.  Sir  John  de  Plays 
died  in  1389.'  His  will,  dated  "die  Jovis  ante  fest.  S.  John  Baptist" 
1385,  was  proved  i6th  July,  1389,  and  he  was  buried  in  the  priory  of  Brome- 
hill  in  Wetyng,  of  which  he  was  patron.  He  bequeaths  to  the  priory  of 
Bromehill  his  "  whole  suit  of  Vestments,  a  Cup  and  Thuribs  of  Silver,  two 
Vials,  an  Incense  Boat,  and  an  Osculatory  of  silver  gilt.  To  the  Prior  and 
Convent  of  Walsingham,  his  Red  Vestment  and  10  Marks  in  Silver.  To  the 
Prior  and  Convent  of  Bromeholm,  his  Black  Vestment  and  10  Marks  in 
Silver.  To  the  Abbess  and  Convent  in  Marham,  to  the  Prioress  and 
Convent  of  Wykes,  to  the  Prioress  and  Convent  of  Heuingham,  to  the 
Prioress  and  Convent  of  Thetford,  and  to  the  Prior  and  Convent  of  Ingham, 
each  100  shillings  sterling.  To  the  repair  of  every  church  in  his  patronage 
40$.  To  the  Church  of  Chelesworth  2os.  To  J oan,  his  wife,  all  his  Wardrobe 
and  all  his  Silver  vessels,  with  all  other  utensils  and  ornaments  belonging  to 
his  house  not  before  bequeathed,  with  all  other  his  goods  and  chattels  in 

1  Close  Rolls,  25  Edw.  III.  20.  4  D.K.R.,  3  App.  ii.  208. 

'Pat.  Rolls,  27  Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  26.  'Rawl.  B.  248. 

J  I.P.M.,  34  Edw.  III.  43.  •  I.P.M.,  12  Rich.  II.  44. 


CHELSWORTH.  151 

his  Manors  of  Knapton,  Tofts,  and  Chelesworth."     He  appoints  his  wife 
Joan,1  Sir  John  de  Burgh,  Sir  Richard  Sutton,  and  others  executors. 

His  only  child  by  his  first  wife,  Margery,  daughter  of  Sir  Walter  de 
Norwich,  Margaret,  was  married  to  Sir  John  Howard,  ancestor  of  the  Dukes 
of  Norfolk.  She  died  in  1391  /  and  he  iyth  Nov.  1437, 3  when  the  manor 
passed  to  their  granddaughter,  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Howard 
(by  Joan,  daughter  of  Sir  Richard  Walton,  Knt.,  of  Wyvenhoe,  in  Essex), 
the  son  of  Sir  John  Howard  and  Margery  his  wife,  which  Sir  John  had  died 
in  the  Holy  Land  in  his  father's  lifetime  in  1404.  Elizabeth  married  John 
de  Vere,  i2th  Earl  of  Oxford,  who  was  beheaded  in  1461 .  In  1472  Elizabeth 
the  widow,  settled  this,  with  other  lordships,4  on  Richard,  Duke  of 
Gloucester,  King  Edward  IV.'s  brother,  in  trust  for  her  heirs,  in  order 
to  preserve  the  property  in  those  particularly  troublesome  and  dangerous 
times  ;  but  26th  Nov.  1479  the  feoffees  of  the  said  Duke  confirmed  to  the 
dean  and  chapter  of  the  Collegiate  Church  of  St.  George  at  Windsor  the 
Manor  of  Chelsworth,  to  endow  a  chantry  in  the  said  church.  Amongst 
the  Ashmolean  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum  are  letters  dated  1479  of  the 
dean  and  canons  of  Windsor,  constituting  an  attorney  to  be  taken  seisin  of 
the  manor  from  Richard,  Duke  of  Gloucester.5 

The  grant,  however,  did  not  prove  eventually  effective,  as  on  the  acces- 
sion of  Hen.  VII.  to  the  throne  John  de  Vere,  the  I3th  Earl  of  Oxford,  son 
and  heir  of  the  i2th  Earl,  was  restored  to  his  family  honours  and  estates, 
amongst  which  this  lordship  was  included.  On  the  death  of  the  i3th 
Earl  in  1512,  without  issue,  the  manor  passed  to  his  nephew  and  heir,  John 
de  Vere,  I4th  Earl,  who  died  without  issue  in  1527.  The  manor  then 
passed  to  his  sister  and  coheir,  Elizabeth,  married  to  Sir  Anthony  Wingfield, 
of  Letherington.6 

On  their  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Robert  Wing- 
field,  who  had  licence  in  1562  to  alien  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Anthony 
Wingfield,  and  this  year  a  fine  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  was  levied  by  John 
Wingfield  and  others  against  Sir  Robert  Wingfield.7  The  fine  included  the 
Manors  of  Brokshall,  Walsham  Hall,  and  Preston.  In  1576  another  fine 
of  these  same  manors  was  levied  by  Richard  Wingfield  and  others  against 
Robert  Wingfield  and  others.8 

Sir  Anthony  Wingfield  died  without  issue  in  1609,  and  was  succeeded 
in  the  lordship  by  his  brother,  Sir  Thomas  Wingfield.  A  little  later  the 
manor  was  acquired  by  Sir  Robert  Naunton,  who  by  deed  4th  Aug.  10  Car.  I. 
settled  it  on  himself  for  life,  with  remainder  to  his  brother  William  and  his 
heirs  male.  Sir  Robert  died  in  1635,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  brother 
and  heir,  William  Naunton,  subject  to  the  interest  therein  of  Sir  Robert's 
widow,  Dame  Penelope.  It  subsequently  vested  in  Robert  Naunton,  of 
Letheringham,  nephew  of  Sir  Robert,  who,  nth  Sept.  1655,  sold  the  manor 

'  She  died  3rd  Sept.  1385.  s  Ashm.   1297.      See  S.P.  5  Hen.   VIII. 

1 1.P.M.,  15  Rich.  II.  31.  4294,  4536. 

'I.P.M.,  16   Hen.  VI.   56.       His   will   is  6  Amongst  the  State  Papers  for  1539  is  a 

dated  ist  April,  14  Hen.  VI.  lease    out    of    the    Augmentation 

«The    lordships    were    Chelsworth,    East  Offices  of  this  manor  and  of  Bawdsey 

Bergholt,  and  Brook  Hall,  in  Suffolk,  rectory    to   Thomas    Wryothesley. 

and    Fersfield,   in   Norfolk.       The  S.P.  1539,  1355. 

settlement    was    effected    by    two  Tine,  Easter,  4  Eliz. 

deeds,    one    dated     gth    Jan.    ia  'Fine,  Mich.  18-19  Eliz. 

Edw.  IV.,  the  other   gth  Feb.  13 

Edw.  IV. 


I52  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

to  Robert  Marryott,  of  Bredfield.  There  is  a  Parliamentary  Survey  of  this 
manor  (made  in  1652-3)  in  the  Public  Record  Office.1 

Robert  Marryott,  on  the  marriage  of  his  daughter  Dorothy  with  Thomas 
Knight,  by  deeds  dated  3rd  and  4th  May,  1675,  in  consideration  of  £1,350 
paid  him  by  John  Knight,  of  St.  Martins-in-the-Fields,  settled  the  manor 
to  the  use  of  Thomas  Knight  for  life,  with  remainder  to  his  wife  for  life, 
with  usual  limitations  to  children  in  tail  with  an  ultimate  remainder  to 
John  Knight  in  fee. 

Robert  Manyott  died  the  same  year,  when  the  manor  passed  in  accord- 
ance with  the  limitations  of  the  settlement.  Thomas  Knight  died  without 
issue,  and  Dorothy,  who  was  a  coheir  of  her  father,  married  Edmund  Jenney, 
of  Knoddishall,  on  whose  death  in  1694  the  manor  vested  in  his  son  and  heir, 
Arthur  Jenney,  who,  dying  in  1729,  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edmund 
Jenney,  who  sold  the  same  in  1737  to  Robert  Pocklington,  who  erected  a 
handsome  mansion  and  became  seated  here. 

Robert  Pocklington  was  a  serjeant-at-law,  and  died  in  1767,  when  the 
lordship  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Robert  Pocklington.  The  cousin 
and  adopted  heiress  of  Robert  Pocklingtou  seems  to  have  been  Pleasance 
Pykarell,  of  Yorkshire,  who,  assuming  his  name  and  arms,  married  Samuel 
Robert  Sharpe,  son  of  Samuel  Sharpe,of  London/  who  thereupon  also  assumed 
the  surname  and  arms  of  Pocklington.  He  left  two  sons,  ist,  Sir  Robert 
Pocklington,  a  distinguished  officer,  I5th  Light  Dragoons  and  Knight  of 
the  Imperial  Order  of  Maria  Theresa,  who  married  Catherine  Frances, 
daughter  of  John  Blagrave,  of  Calcot  Park,  Reading,  and  dying  2ist  Sept. 
1840,  left  by  her  (who  married  andly  Sir  Henry  Edm.  Austen,  of  Shalford, 
Surrey)  one  son,  Martin  Robert  Pocklington,  of  Chelsworth,  who  died  un- 
married in  1865 ;  and  2nd,  Henry  Sharpe  Pocklington.  The  latter  married  in 
1795  Anne  Harvey, and  by  her  left  at  his  death  25th  Oct.  1816,  a  son,  the  Rev. 
Henry  Sharpe  Pocklington,  of  Stebbing,  Essex,  who  married  8th  Aug.  1827, 
Amelia  Georgina,  daughter  of  General  George  Stracey  Smyth,  Governor  of 
New  Brunswick,  and  died  23rd  July,  1842,  leaving  a  son,  Lieut.-Col. 
George  Henry  Pocklington,  High  Sheriff,  1880,  who  married  2Oth  Sept. 
1857,  Guiliana  Maria  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Robert  Alfred  Cloyne  Godwin 
Austen,  of  Chilworth  Manor,  Guildford,  and  had  a  son,  Harry  Evelyn 
Stracey  Pocklington,  who  married  5th  Aug.  1886,  Amy  Jane,  eldest  daughter 
of  John  Hargreaves,  of  Maiden  Erlegh,  Berks. 

Court  Rolls  of  the  manor  20,  23,  24  Hen.  VI.  will  be  found  in  the  Public 
Record  Office,3  and  1563  to  1600  amongst  the  Additional  Rolls  in  the  British 
Museum.4 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings,  1558-79,  is  an  action  by  Elizabeth 
Nanton,  widow,  against  John  Nevell,  Lord  Latimer,  as  to  Chelsworth, 
Brook  Hall,  Walsham  Hall,  Preston,  and  Holbrook  Park.5 

The  following  is  a  copy  of  a  rental  for  the  manor  in  1737.' 

A  RENTAL  FOR  HALF-YEAR,  LADY  DAY,  1737. 

i    s.     d. 
Alston  Brand  Esqr   late  Beales  . .  . .         . .     o  15    4 

More  late  Greens    ..         ..         ..         ..         ..         ..099 

More  late  Bennaworth       ..         ..         ..         ..         . .     o    I    6 

1  D.K.R.,  8  App.  ii.  p.  67.  3  Portfolio  203,  22. 

"The   celebrated   surgeon,    author   of    a  * 32901-32905. 

"  Treatise  on  Surgical  Operations,"  5C.P.  Ser.  ii.  B.  cxxxii.  18. 

in  1788,  and  of  a  work  entitled,  6  From  a  paper  in  the  writer's  possession. 

"  Letters  from  Italy,"  in  1765. 


CHELSWORTH.  153 

i    s.   d. 

Brewgates  Gere  late  Andrews       . .         . .         . .  . .     o     i  nj 

Boltos,  widow,  late  Geoffees          . .         . .         . .  ..004 

Beyjus  late  Brabrookes      ..          ..         ..         ..  ..ooi 

Brownrigg  Rob'   late  Worth        . .         . .         . .  ..007 

Barry  HubbardEsqr- late  Hubbard's       ..         ..  . .     o  12     2 

Chelsworth,  Town  Lands  ..          ..          ..          ..  ..068 

Cutbert  John  late  Jurby  . .          . .         . .         . .  . .     o  17     7 

More  late  Greens     ..          ..         ..         ..         ..  . .     i     6    6 

More  late  Greens     . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  ..0105^ 

Cutbert  Jos.  late  Greens   ..         ..         ..          ..  ..047 

Clark  Eliz.  and  Mary  late  Hewett. .         ..         ..  o    3     5^ 

More  late  Hewett  late  Chaplins    . .          . .         . .  ..034 

More  late  Hewett  late  Worths      . .         . .         . .  ..026 

More  late  Hewett  late  Worths     . .         . .         . .  o     i     6 

Curry  Damaris  late  Hindes          . .         . .         . .  ..088 

Clark  Jno.  late  Prye          ..         ..         ..         ..  ..047 

Clark  Jos.  late  Rivett        060 

Cobbald  Sarah  late  Andrews  late  Thurlow         . .  ..029 

Dean  John  and  Numford  Sarah  late  Wm.  Rudland  now 

Edwrt  Numford  junior            . .          . .         . .  ..009 

Fish  for  Howletts  late  Myms  late  Andrews        . .  ..oil 

More  late  Myms  late  Dorisley's    . .         . .         . .  ..017 

More  late  Myms  late  Offwood       . .          . .         . .  ..oil 

More  late  Myms  late  Abbotts        . .         . .         . .  ..049 

Green  Judith  late  Eliz.  Worth's  . .         . .         . .  ..007 

Gardner  Rob'-  late  Jene,  free  rent            . .         . .  ..006 

Gage  Peter  late  Kitchen,  free  rent          . .         . .  ..009 

Hanold  John  late  Brundish          . .         . .         . .  . .     o    o     i£ 

Hall  John  late  Hale  formerly  Mary  Knocke       . .  . .     o    o  lof 

Hule  John  late  Hiles  free,  Relief  pd.  by  Wm.  Hiles  4th 

May  1691          . .         . .         ; .         . .         . .  ..008 

Hill  Henry  late  Blomfield o     i  n£ 

Hodges  Esqr   late  Myns     . .         . .         . .         . .  . .     3    o    2^ 

Kemingale  John,  late  Mrs.  Mym's           . .          . .  ..068 

More  in  ye  right  of  his  wife,  Copyhold    . .          . .  I     6     i 

Mannings  Abraham  late  Cannele  . .         . .          . .  ..006 

Nunnford  Edward  late  Pryse  late  Cloude  pH-  free  one 

acre        ..         ..         ..         ..         ..         ..  ..004 

Numford  Edward  late  Dansie  q  free,  8  acres       . .  ..036 

More  late  Andrew  Rudland  late  Sparrows,  7  acres  £12  a 

year       ..         ..         ..         ..         ..         ..  ..060 

Numford  Edward  late  Tustor  q  free  14  acres.     Relief 

W.  E.  pd  by  Price  I2th  August  1699          . .  ..051 

More  late  Althorne  and  Pryce  i  acre  copy        . .  ..006 
Nunnford,  Wm.  Bate  Thos.  Green's  House  and  Barn 

and  abt.  35  acres  of  land      . .         . .         . .  ..054 

More  late  Alice  Greens       ..         ..         ..         ..  ..o54 

q  Kilm  field  about  4  acres 

Part  of  Mowbray  q  field  abt.  3  acres  free. 

Do.  Cottage  late  his  wife's  father  Wm.  Rudland  late 

Jarrold's           ..         ..         ..         ..         ..  ..004 

Norman  William,  late  Mary  Kingsbury..         ..  ..     o    o  n 

Pryce  Rob1  late  Mary  Alice  Hamott      . .         . .  ..019 


I54  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

£  s.  d. 

More  late  Althorne ..         ..         ..         ..  ..  ..     i  n    6 

Patrick  Jno.  late  Clover     . .         . .         . .  . .  . .     o    3  10 

More  ..         ..         ..         ..         ..         ..  ..  ..022 

Rudland  Alice  late  Lemon's           . .         . .  . .  ..007 

Rudland  Mary,  late  Button  and  Herbert. .  ..  ..     o    i    o 

Rudland  Jno.  late  King's  late  Salters,  relief  pd  by  Ann 

Bird  on  the  death  of  Susannah  Salter  igth  Aprill 

1690    020            ..         ..         ..  ..  ..036 

More  late  Slammers. .         ..         ..         ..  ..  ..004 

Rudland  William  late  his  Father  Wm.  Rudland's  ..006 

Sage  James  late  Andrews  ..         ..         ..  ..  ..004 

More  late  Andrews  late  Clarkes    . .         . .  . .  ..004 

Tyrell  Charles          ..         ..         ..         ..  ..  ..oio 

Wright  Henry  late  James  Andrews          ..  ..  ..004 

Waldringfield  Feoffees       ..         ..         ..  ..  ..024 

Waterman  James  late  Anthony  Vince    . .  . .  ..009 

Arms  of  BLAKENHAM  :  Argent,  two  bars  between  12  cross-crosslets, 
Or.  Of  ST.  PHILEBERT  :  Bendy  of  six,  Argent  and  Azure.  Of  PLAIZ  :  Per 
pale,  Or  and  Gules,  a  Lion  passant,  Argent.  Of  NAUNTON  :  Barry  of  six, 
Argent  and  Sable.  Of  POCKLINGTON  :  Erm.  3  bends  Azure,  on  a  chief  Or 
as  many  martlets  Sa. 


ELMSETT.  155 

ELMSETT. 

MONO  the  lands  of  Roger  de  Oburville  was  one  holding  in 
this  place.     It  consisted  of  6  carucates  and  40  acres  of  land, 

11  villeins,  12  bordars,  4  serfs,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne, 

12  ploughteams  belonging  to  the  men,  2  rouncies,  16  beasts, 
30  hogs,  and  240  sheep.     At  the  time  of  the  Survey  these 
details  were  altered.     The  villeins  were  reduced  to  2,  the 
ploughteams  belonging  to  the  men  were  only  4,  the  beasts 

were  reduced  to  4,  the  hogs  to  20,  and  the  sheep  to  200,  and  the  value 
which  in  Saxon  times  was  £10  had  come  down  to  £7.  This  holding  was  10 
quarentenes  long  and  7  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  15^.  The  Abbot  of  St. 
Edmunds  had  half  the  soc.  It  was  held  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  by 
Thou  the  Thane.1 

MANOR  OF  ELMSETT. 

To  Roger  de  Oburville,  the  Domesday  tenant,  succeeded  Hugh  de 
Oburville  or  Auberville,  his  son  and  heir,  and  by  the  time  of  Hen.  III.  the 
lordship  was  vested  in  Sir  John  de  Bathun  or  Bathonia.  In  1275  John  de 
Bathun  claimed  free  warren,  gallows,  view  of  frankpledge,  and  assize  of 
bread  and  beer  and  ducking  stool  here/  and  died  in  1291. 3  His  daughter 
and  heir,  Joan,  married  John  de  Bohun,  son  of  Franco  de  Bohun  and  of 
Sibil  his  wife,  daughter  of  William  de  Ferrers,  Earl  of  Derby  ;  and  in  I3i64 
their  grandson  and  heir,  John  de  Bohun,  was  lord.5 

He  was  the  son  of  James  de  Bohun,  of  Midhurst,  who  had  died  in  1311, 
by  Joane,  daughter  and  coheir  of  William  de  Broase,  of  Gower  and  Bramber, 
co.  Sussex.  He  married  ist  a  wife  named  Isabel,  by  whom  he  had  two 
daughters,  and  2ndly  Cecily,  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Filiol,  of  Essex. 
This  son  never  seems  to  have  had  the  manor,  for  his  father  must  have 
parted  with  it  in  his  lifetime,  as  William  de  Bohun  certainly  held  in  1358. 
As  early  as  1328  this  William  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here.6  He  is  no 
doubt  the  William  de  Bohun  created  Earl  of  Northampton  I7th  March, 
1339,  and  who  at  Cressy  had  an  important  command.  From  the  25th 
Report  of  the  Deputy  Keeper  on  Public  Records  we  learn  that  in  1358 
there  was  a  grant  of  both  this  and  Offton  Manor  by  William  de  Bohun  to  John 
Botiller,  Adam  de  Eirdale,  and  others  for  lives.7 

William  de  Bohun  was  finally  honoured  with  the  Garter,  and  married 
Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Bartholomew  de  Badlesmere,  one  of  the  coheirs  of 
her  brother  Giles  and  widow  of  Edmund  de  Mortimer,  and  dying  in  1360" 
was  succeeded  by  his  only  son  Humphrey,  2nd  Earl  of  Northampton, 
and  as  successor  to  his  uncle,  Earl  of  Hereford  and  Essex  and  Constable  of 
England. 

On  the  death  of  his  father  he  was  a  minor  and  under  the  guardianship 
of  Richard,  Earl  of  Arundel.  He  died  in  1372,'  at  the  early  age  of  32, 
leaving  by  his  wife  Joane,  daughter  of  his  former  guardian,  the  Earl  of 
Arundel,  two  daughters  and  coheirs — Alianore,  married  to  Thomas  of 
Woodstock,  Duke  of  Gloucester,  sixth  son  of  King  Edw.  III.,  and  Mary, 
married  to  Henry,  Earl  of  Derby  (son  of  John  of  Gaunt,  Duke  of  Lancaster), 
afterwards  King  Hen.  IV. 

'Dom.  ii.  405.  'I.Q.D.,  10  Edw.  II.  File  123,  15. 

°H.R.  ii.  153,  199.  *  Chart.  Rolls,  2  Edw.  III.  60. 

3I.P.M.,  19  Edw.  I.  13,  Extent.  7D.K.R.,  25  App.  p.  7. 

4 Extent  I.P.M.,  10  Edw.  II.,  70  and  60  "I.P.M.,  34  Edw.  III.  85. 

acres  of  land  and  ij  of  wood  and  9I.P.M.,  46  Edw.  III.  10. 

20  acres. 


I56  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

The  manor  was  in  1421  assigned  in  pourparty  to  King  Hen.  V.,1  and  in 
1427  confirmed  to  the  Queen  Dowager  as  part  of  her  dower.2 

In  1532  we  find  an  action  amongst  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster  papers 
between  the  King  and  Richard  Coke  and  John  Smyth,  in  which  the  title  of 
the  Duchy  to  the  manor  is  disputed.  In  these  proceedings  a  plan  of  the 
manor  will  be  found.3 

Amongst  the  same  papers  in  1586  and  1588  we  find  an  action  by  Henry, 
Lord  Wentworth,  against  Andrew  Keime  and  Thomas  Driver  relating  to 
the  manor  and  as  to  herbage  and  pannage  of  woods  called  Bringewood 
and  Bushe  Cattshill.4 

It  is  clear  the  manor  remained  in  the  Crown  until  1609,  and  amongst 
the  State  Papers  for  1609  is  a  letter  of  John  Waddelove  touching  the 
purchase  of  the  "  King's  Manors  "  of  Elmsett,  Offton,  and  Somersham.5 

Ministers'  accounts  of  lands  in  Elmsett  will  be  found  in  the  Public 
Record  Office,  7  Hen.  V.,6for  7  to  9  Hen.  V.,7  for  9  Hen.  V.8,  and  farmers' 
and  receivers'  account  of  lands  of  Duchy  of  Lancaster  iu  Elmsett  are  also 
there  for  the  36  and  37  Hen.  VI.9 

In  1609  the  manor  was  evidently  disposed  of  to  Ralph  Cecil,  Earl  of 
Salisbury,  for  we  find  him  then  lord.  He  died  in  1612.  Apparently  the 
manor  in  1632  belonged  to  John  Cooke,  citizen  and  merchant  tailor  of 
London,  for  this  year  by  deed  dated  i7th  June,  he  sells  of  lands  belonging 
to  the  manor,  22  acres  in  Elmsett  to  Richard  Glamfield  the  elder,  of 
Hadleigh. 

In  1649  the  manor  was  vested  in  the  Rev.  Richard  Glanville,  rector 
of  Elmsett,  and  lord,  not  only  of  this  manor,  but  also  of  the  manors  of 
Somersham  and  Offton.  He  was  the  son  of  Richard  Glanville,  mayor  of 
Hadleigh  in  1626,  a  descendant  of  William  de  Glanville,  2nd  Earl  of  Suffolk, 
a  Justiciary  in  1196,  and  a  benefactor  to  his  father's  abbey  of  Leiston. 

Richard  Glanville  died  I5th  Dec.  1667,  and  his  will  was  proved  in  1668.  IC 

He  bequeathed  a  certain  piece  of  land  called  The  Grove,  now  parcel  of 
the  glebe,  the  rent  of  which,  35.,  provides  six  6d.  loaves  to  be  given  to  the 
poor  on  Christmas  Day.  The  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Richard 
Glanville.  He  married  Sarah  Gideon,  whose  will  is  dated  the  i3th  Aug. 
1726,  and  proved  in  1734.  She  was  at  the  date  of  her  will  a  widow.  They 
had  two  sons,  Richard  Gideon  Glanville,  to  whom  the  manor  passed,  and 
William  Glanville,  who  was  born  in  1665,  and  settled  in  Antigua  in  1677. 
Richard  Gideon  Glanville  married  Eleanor  Ashfield,  of  Somersetshire,  and 
died  in  1725-6,  when  the  manor  passed  to  Richard  Glanville,  their  son  and 
heir,  who  died  in  Oct.  1728. 

This  is  not  certain.  Davy  says  Richard  Gideon  Glanville,  son  of 
Richard,  died  in  1725-6,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Richard 
Gideon  Glanville,  who  died  in  1767.  Mr.  Glanville-  Richards,  however,  in  his 
'  Records  of  the  Anglo-Norman  House  of  Glanville,"  states  that  Richard 
Gideon  Glanville,  son  of  Richard  Glanville,  had  by  his  2nd  wife  Ann  children 
up  to  the  year  1737,  and  he  makes  no  mention  of  a  Richard  Gideon  Glanville, 
a  son  of  a  father  with  a  like  name.  It  is  possible,  however,  that  there  may 


'R.P.  iv.  137.  ilb.  3. 

•R.P.  iv.  187.  «/6.  5. 
'Duchy  of  Lancaster,  Cal.  to  Pleadings,         'Bundle  292,  No.  4804. 

24  Hen.  VIII.  10.  "A  translation  of  the  inscription  on  his 
4  Ib.  28  Eliz.  6  ;  30  Eliz.  21.  tomb  will  be  found  in  the  "  Records 

»S.P.  1609,  547.  of  the  House  of  Glanville,"  p.  84. 

•Bundle  117,  No.  2. 


ELMSETT.  157 

have  been  a  son  of  this  name,  and  that  he  was  the  person  who  married  Ann 
and  had  children  up  to  the  year  1737.  Shortly  after  1764,  the  manor 
passed  to  JohnAlderson, of  Cambridge,  who  died  in  1782, and  hewas  followed' 
by  Abraham  Reeve,  of  Hadleigh,  who  died  in  1826,  and  was  followed  by 
Edward  Reeve,  of  Ardleigh,  in  Essex.  In  1847  the  manor  was  vested  in 
JamesCuddon, of  Norwich;  in  1855  it  was  vested  in  Messrs.  James  and  Thomas 
F.  Cuddon,  of  Norwich ;  and  now  no  longer  exists  save  as  a  reputed  manor 
which  is  vested  in  the  trustees  of  Sparrowe's  charity. 

The  old  hall  standing  close  to  the  church  is  now  a  farm  house.      It 
was  once  surrounded  by  a  moat,  remains  of  which  are  still  to  be  seen. 

There  is  in  the  Public  Record  Office  a  parliamentary  petition  of  Philip 
Wentworth  relating  to  the  manor.2 

Arms  of  BOHUN  of  Midhurst :  Or,  a  cross  Az. 


•Davy  inserts  here,  Radwell,  of  Hadleigh,          2No.  9393,  D.K.R.  34,  App.  p.  161. 
as  lord. 


158  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

HADLEIGH. 

(HERE  was  one  manor  in  this  place  among  the  lands  of 
Archbishop  Lanfranc.  Formerly  it  consisted  of  5  carucates 
of  land,  22  villeins,  26  bordars,  2  serfs,  2  ploughteams  in 
demesne,  15  ploughteams  belonging  to  the  men,  2  mills, 
and  16  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  £12.  At  the  time  of  the 
Survey  the  details  of  the  manor  were  altered,  the  26  bordars 
were  reduced  to  19,  the  ploughteams  belonging  to  the  men 

to  10,  but  additionally  there  were  2  rouncies,  12  beasts,  120  sheep,  and  20 

hogs,  and  the  value  was  £15. 

There  was  also  a  church,  with  i  carucate  of  free  land,  a  ploughteam, 

and  a  mill,  valued  at  I2s.,  also  a  socman  with  60  acres  in  the  time  of  the 

Confessor.     It  had  formerly  been  held  by  Holy  Trinity. 

On  the  same  land  dwelt  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  3  socmen,  having  a 

ploughteam  and  an  acre  of  meadow.     Further,  there  were  60  acres  held  in 

the  time  of  the  Confessor  by  a  freeman  under   commendation  and  soc. 

On  the  same  land  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  dwelt  3  freemen  having  a 

ploughteam  and  2j  acres  of  meadow.    The  value  formerly  was  8s.,  but  was 

increased  by  2s.  at  the  time  of  the  Survey.    The  whole  was  a  league  long 

and  7  quarentenes  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  n^d.' 
There  are  five  manors  in  Hadleigh  :— 

(1)  The  Manor  of  Hadleigh  or  Hadleigh  Hall. 

(2)  The  Manor  of  Pond  Hall. 

(3)  The  Manor  of  Toppesfield  Hall. 

(4)  The  Manor  of  Mausers  or  Hadleigh  in  Hadleigh. 

(5)  The  Manor  of  Cosford  Hall. 

Mr.  Pigott,  in  his  History  of  Hadleigh,  does  not  mention  the  Manor 
of  Mausers,  but  has  the  "  Manor  of  Hadleigh  in  Hadleighe." 

MANOR  OF  HADLEIGH  HALL. 

Brithnoth,  sometimes  called  Duke  and  at  other  times  Earl  of  Essex, 
in  991  devised  the  Manor  of  Hadleigh  to  the  church  of  Canterbury,  after  the 
death  of  his  wife,  Elfleda.3  This  was  the  year  the  Danes  landed  in  con- 
siderable force  in  Essex ;  the  Duke  attacked  them  at  Maldon  with  a  com- 
paratively small  body  of  troops.  The  result  was  that  this  valiant  soldier 
and  earnest  Christian  was  slain.  Brithnoth  had  before  starting  on  his 
fatal  expedition  made  large  grants  of  land  to  the  church  of  Ely  also.3 
Dugdale's  account  of  the  gift  of  the  manor  as  early  as  835  by  Elfleda  to  the 
church  of  Canterbury,  with  the  consent  of  Ethelred  the  King,  is  a  delusion, 
and  is,  in  fact,  contrary  to  his  statement  as  to  what  happened  in  the  year 
991.  It  is  true  there  is  the  same  discrepancy  in  the  MS.  of  Brian  Twyne. 
It  seems  probable  that  Elfleda  gave  up  her  life  interest,  and  hence  the 
confusion  has  arisen. 

This  would  reconcile  the  two  statements  except  as  to  the  date;  in  fact, 
the  statement  that  the  gift  was  made  with  the  consent  of  King  Ethelred 
would  suit  the  date  991,  but  not  835,  as  he  did  not  commence  to  reign 
until  the  year  978. 

In  1305  the  prior  and  convent  of  Christ  Church,  Canterbury,  held,4 
and  in  1317  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here.  An  extent  or  survey  of  the 

1  Dom.  ii.  3726.  3  Camdcn,  p.  410. 

'8  Rep.  Hist.  Com.  322.  4I.Q.D.,  15  Edw.  II.  56. 


HADLEIGH.  159 

manor  made  in  1305  for  the  monastery  of  Canterbury  will  be  found  amongst 
the  Harleian  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum,1  and  the  Additional  MSS.  in 
the  same  depository/  and  is  printed  in  Appendix  H  of  Mr.  Pigott's  History 
of  Hadleigh,  published  in  1860  by  the  Suffolk  Institute  of  Archaeology. 

Mr.  Pigott  states  that  it  was  not  until  1547  that  the  manor  passed  into 
the  hands  of  the  dean  and  chapter  of  Canterbury,3  but  he  is  mistaken. 
The  manor  passed  to  them  in  1541,  and  particulars  of  the  grant  in  frankal- 
moin  this  year  will  be  found  amongst  the  State  Papers  for  1541 .4 

In  1638  Edmund  D'Oyley  held  the  manor  of  the  dean  and  chapter 
of  Canterbury,  and  in  1764  Ebenezer  Maurice.  About  1840  it  was  held 
in  lease  by  the  Rev.  Edward  Jermyn,  under  whose  will  it  passed  to  his 
trustees,  the  Rev.  J.  C.  Safford  and  the  Rev.  John  Francis,  who  held  the 
same  in  1855. 

In  1875  the  lessee  under  the  dean  and  chapter  of  Canterbury,  the  Rev. 
William  Hale  Andrews,  purchased  the  manor  from  the  Ecclesiastical 
Commissioners,  and  he  shortly  afterwards  and  before  taking  a  conveyance 
sold  the  manor  to  John  Frederick  Robinson,  who  then  resided  at  Hadleigh 
Hall,  and  the  manor  was  conveyed  to  him  by  the  Ecclesiastical  Com- 
missioners by  deed  dated  2gth  July,  1876.  In  1879  Mr.  Robinson  sold  to 
Frederick  Last,  of  Albert  Buildings,  London,  who  in  1881  sold  to  Henry 
Edwards  Paine  and  Richard  Brittell,  of  Chersey,  who  in  1882  sold  the  same 
to  Charles  James  Grimwade,  in  whom  the  manor  is  now  vested. 

The  hall  is  situate  near  the  church,  and  is  the  ancient  mansion  house 
of  the  manor.  Some  20  years  or  so  ago  it  was  renovated,  and  is  now  owned 
and  occupied  by  the  Rev.  Ernest  Edward  Ward  Kirby,  M.A. 

Particulars  of  the  services  and  customs  of  the  manor  will  be  found 
amongst  the  Additional  and  the  Harleian  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum.5 

MANOR  OF  PLESSIS  OR  POND  HALL. 

The  land  comprising  this  manor  appears  in  four  entries  in  the  Domesday 
Survey  under  the  head  "Lafham"  or  "  Latham,"  and  has  almost  immemo- 
riably  been  assigned  to  Leyham.  The  principal  holding  was  that  of  the 
Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds,  who  held  26  freemen  with  2  carucates  of  land,  6 
acres  of  meadow,  bordars,  6  plough  teams  (which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey 
had  become  reduced  to  4). 

These  freemen  might  give  or  sell  their  land.  The  soc,  sac,  commenda- 
tion, and  all  customs  except  in  one  case  belonged  to  the  abbot,  and  it  was 
held  by  him  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor,  when  the  value  was  305.  as  against 
405.  at  the  time  of  the  Survey.  Berard  also  held  half  a  carucate  of  land  and 
a  ploughteam,  valued  at  22s.  out  of  the  above  value.  The  estate  was  6 
quarentenes  long  and  4  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  $%d.6 

Another  estate  here  was  that  of  Ralph  Pinel,  and  consisted  of  40  acres, 
i  bordar,  i  serf,  and  i  ploughteam,  valued  at  los.  The  soc  was  in  the  Abbot 
of  St.  Edmunds.  The  estate  had  formerly  been  that  of  Bricthmar.7 
William  de  Noers  also  kept  for  the  King  4  acres  here  valued  at  I2d.  The 
land  formerly  belonged  to  a  socman.8  The  fourth  holding  was  that  of 

'Harl.  1006.  5Add.  6159,  6160;  Harl.  1006. 

'6159.  s  Dom.  ii.  3686. 

3 p.  5  (note).  7  Dom.  ii.  437. 

4S.P.  1541.  P-  878  (59)-  *  Dom.  ii.  288. 


160  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

Robert  Gernon,  and  consisted  of  20  acres,  belonging  to  Churchford  demesne 
in  which  Scape  held.  This  was  valued  at  35.,  and  was  held  by  William  de 
Alno.1 

This  manor  was  originally  known  as  Plessis  or  Plessets,  that  is,  Place  or 
Plaizc  Manor,  subsequently  as  Lafham  Manor,  and  finally  as  Pond  Hall 
Manor. 

In  the  reign  of  King  John  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  by  Robert,  son  of 
Gerard,  against  Matilda  de  Aldham,  with  Nicholas,  her  son,  in  Lafham,  and 
in  1240  a  fine  levied  by  Hugh,  son  of  Alexander,  and  William,  his  brother, 
against  Thomas  de  la  Pond  in  Lafham.  A  John  de  Lafham  appears  in  an 
extent  of  the  Manor  of  Hadleigh  in  1305,  still  extant,  and  in  an  inquisition 
p.m.  in  1323  mention  is  made  of  one  William  de  Lafham,  who  was  seised 
of  i  messuage,  70  acres  of  land,  and  15  acres  of  woodland  here.  His  heir 
was  John  de  Lafham,  aged  30  years.' 

By  1341,  however,  the  manor  had  passed  to  Sir  William  Giffard. 
Amongst  the  Essex  Charters  in  the  Bodleian  is  agrant  in  1332  bySir William 
Cokerel  (son  of  Sir  Robert  Cokerel)  and  Cecilia  his  wife  to  Sir  William 
Giffard,  described  as  of  Stokeneyland,  Knt.,  and  Isabella,  his  wife,  of  55 
acres  i  rood  and  12  perches  of  land  in  4  pieces  lying  in  the  parish  of  Hadleigh 
in  a  hamlet  called  "  Lafham"  in  exchange  for  the  same  quantity  of  land 
lying  in  the  same  village  in  16  pieces.3 

Sir  William  Giffard  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here  in  1340,*  and  on  his 
death  his  estate  passed  to  his  daughter  and  heir,  Cecily,  widow  of  Sir  William 
Cokerel,  then  remarried  to  Richard  Kyslingham  or  Kyselingbury .  of  London, 
and  they  sold  the  manor  in  1359  *°  Helminge  Legat,  of  Essex,  Constable  of 
Windsor  Castle.  In  1365  he  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here,5  and  in  1369 
had  a  patent  granted  to  him  enabling  him  to  impark  300  acres  of  land, 
20  acres  of  meadow,  180  acres  of  pasture,  and  139  acres  of  wood  in  Hadleigh. 

Two  years  later  he  had  another  patent  empowering  him  to  embattle 
his  mansion,  called  "  Le  Pond  Hall  in  Hadleigh."  This  house  probably 
stood  on  the  site  now  known  as  Hadleigh  Castle.  He  married  Falson, 
daughter  of  Sir  John  Mandeville,  of  Essex,  and  died  in  1391,  when  the 
manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Legat,  who  released  all  his  right 
to  his  sister  Anne  on  her  marriage  with  Edward  D'Oyley,  son  of  Thomas 
D'Oyley,  of  Staffordshire.6 

Amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum  is  an  appoint- 
ment to  give  seisin  in  1398  of  this  manor  and  the  Manor  of  Cosford,  in 
Hadleigh,7  and  it  rather  throws  doubt  on  the  last  statement,  for  the 
authority  is  from  John  Hermesthorp,  Master  of  the  College  of  St.  Katherine, 
London,  Roger  Wolferston,  and  others,  constituting  John  Power  and  Richard 
Barrell  attorneys  to  deliver  seisin  to  Edward  Leget  and  Joan,  daughter  of 
John  "  Jarnyngan,"  of  Somerleyton,  his  wife.  The  document  is  dated  at 
Hadleigh  6th  May,  21  Rich.  II.  [1398]. 

'  Dom.  ii.  4206.  Alicia,  sister  of  Sir  John  Swinford. 

•  I.P.M.,  16  Edw.  II.  21.  Sir  Edmund  was  the  son  of  Edward, 

'5  Edw.  III.  Bod.  Essex  Ch.  197.  the  son  of  John  D'Oyley,  by  Rose, 

« Chart.  Rolls,  14  Edw.  III.  39.  daughter  and  coheir  of  Sir  William 

s Chart.  Rolls,  38  Edw.  III.  13.  Dunstone,   of    Staffordshire,    Knt. 

6 This  Thomas  was  the  son  of  Sir  Edmund  This     John    was    son    of    Roger 

D'Oyley,     Knt.,    and    his      wife,  D'Oyley,  who    flourished    in    the 

daughter     and    heir   of     John  de  reign  of  Hen.  HI. 
Bowden,  of  Northamptonshire,  by         'Add.  Ch.  10571. 


HADLEIGH.  161 

William  Clop  ton,  citizen  of  London,  is  said  by  Davy  to  have  been  lord 
in  1425,  and  John  Belsham  in  1428.  The  manor  is  certainly  mentioned  in 
the  inquisition  p.m.  of  this  John  Belsham  this  year.1 

It  is  possible  they  were  but  trustees,  for  we  find  the  manor  vested  in 
John  D'Oyly,  son  and  heir  of  the  above  Edward  D'Oyly,  who,  with  his  wife 
Elizabeth,  were  both  buried  in  St.  John's  Chapel,  in  Hadleigh.  In  1466 
John  D'Oyly  had  had  licence  from  Thomas,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  to 
have  a  chapel  for  his  family  at  Pondhall.  He  died  in  1483,  and  his  will  may 
be  seen  in  the  Collection  of  Suffolk  Charters  in  the  Bodleian.2  It  is  dated 
i5th  Aug.  1483,  and  was  proved  gth  Oct.  1483.  On  his  death  the  manor 
passed  to  his  ?on  and  heir  Edward  D'Oyly,  who  married  Anne,  daughter  of 
Thomas  Cotton,  of  Landwade,  co.  Camb.,  and  dying  25th  Jan.  I534~5,3 
it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Henry  D'Oyly,  who  was  thrice  married — 
ist  to  Joan,  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Stede,  of  Marshland,  by  whom  he 
had  no  issue  ;  2ndly  to  Jane,  daughter  and  sole  heir  of  John  Elwyn,  of 
Wigenhall,  in  Norfolk  ;  and  3rdly  to  Margaret,  natural  daughter  of  John, 
Duke  of  Norfolk,  and  relict  of  Sir  John  Timperley,  of  Hintlesham.  Sir 
Henry  D'Oyly  died  I3th  Feb.  I563-4,4  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Henry  D'Oyly.  The  inquisition,  dated  4th  Sept.  1564,  on  Sir 
Henry,  states  that  he  was  seised  of  Pond  Hall,  "  Topsfield  "  Hall,  in  Had- 
leigh, and  Cosford  Manor,  in  Whatfield,  and  that  Henry,  his  son  and  heir,  was 
34  years  old.  This  Sir  Henry,  the  son,  resided  at  Shipdam,  in  Norfolk, 
and  was  Knight  of  the  Shire  for  Bucks,  in  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  and 
Sheriff  for  Norfolk  in  1572  and  1596-7.  He  married  Anne,  daughter  of 
Edmund  White,  of  Shottisham,  in  Norfolk,  by  Margaret  his  wife,  the  widow 
of  William  Timperley.  A  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  in  1585  against 
Sir  Henry  and  others  by  Thomas  Towneshend  and  others/  no  doubt  on 
the  occasion  of  some  settlement. 

On  the  death  of  Henry  D'Oyly  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Edmund  D'Oyly, of  Pond  Hall  and  Shottisham,  who  was  High  Sheriff  for 
Norfolk  in  1604,  and  married  ist  Anne,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Goodwin,  of 
Winchindon,  in  Bucks.,  by  whom  he  had  a  son,  Henry,  who  died  young,  and 
a  daughter  Elizabeth,  married  to  Charles  Vesey,  of  Hintlesham  ;  and  2ndly 
Katherine,  daughter  of  Sir  Henry  Nevill,  of  BilUngbere,  in  Berks.,  by  Eliza- 
beth his  wife,  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  John  Gresham,  of  London,  by  Francis 
his  wife,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Sir  Henry  Thwaites,  of  Lound  on  the 
Woldes,  in  Yorkshire.  Sir  Henry  Nevill  was  a  member  of  the  Privy 
Council  to  Hen.  VIII.  and  Edw.  VI.,  and  brother  to  Edward,  Lord 
Abergavenny. 

Edmund  D'Oyly  on  his  marriage  settled  the  Manors  of  Pondhall, 
Toppesfield  Hall,  and  Cosford  Hall  in  jointure,  and  an  annuity  of  200  marks 
a  year  out  of  other  property,  the  whole  jointure  being  estimated  at  1,000 
marks.  He  was  buried  I2th  Oct.  1612,  and  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Sir  Henry  D'Oyly.  He  married  Susan,  daughter  of  Lionel  Talmach, 
of  Helmingham,  and  sister  of  Sir  Lionel  Talmach,  the  ist  Bart,  of  that 
family,  by  whom  he  left  one  son,  Edmund,  to  whom  the  manor  passed  on 
Sir  Henry's  death  6th  March,  1616. 

Edmund  D'Oyly  married  Bridget,  daughter  of  John  Coke,  of  Holkham, 
in  Norfolk,  and  granddaughter  of  Sir  Edward  Coke,  Lord  Chief  Justice 

1 1.P.M.,  6  Hen.  VI.  63.  « I.P.M.,  6  Eliz.  169. 

"Bodl.  Suff.  Ch.  1307.  5Fine,  Easter,  27  Eliz. 

3I.P.M.,  26  Hen.  VIII.  103. 

W 


162  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

of  the  King's  Bench,  by  whom  he  had  one  daughter,  Susan,  3  years  old 
9th  Nov.  1638,  who  died  without  issue.  Edmund  D'Oyly  died  28th  Sept. 
1638,  and  the  inquisition  taken  4th  Feb.  following  says  he  died  seised  of  the 
Manor  of  Pond  Hall,  in  Hadleigh,  the  great  park,  coppice,  woods,  and 
lands  there,  and  mentions  several  lands,  tenements,  &c.,  in  jointure  to 
Dame  Susan  and  Bridget,  the  ward's  mother,  with  the  manors  of  "  Tops- 
field  "  Hall,  Cosford,  &c.  His  widow  afterwards  married  Sir  Isaac  Astley, 
of  Melton  Constable,  in  Norfolk,  Bart. 

Sir  William  D'Oyly,  son  and  heir  of  William,  brother  of  Sir  Henry, 
succeeded  to  the  lordship,  and  was  styled  Sir  William  the  elder,  and  as  heir 
to  Susan  his  cousin  had  also  Toppesfield  and  Cosford  and  Shottisham, 
Gostlings,  and  three  manors  in  Warham,  in  Norfolk.  He  was  knighted 
by  King  Charles  I.  in  1642  for  his  gallant  behaviour  abroad,  in  the  service 
of  the  great  Gustavus  Adolphus,  after  whose  death  he  remained  in  foreign 
parts  till  he  returned  to  take  possession  of  the  fortune  of  his  family.  He 
was  a  very  accomplished  gentleman,  and  much  esteemed  in  the  county 
which  he  had  the  honour  to  represent  in  Parliament  with  Sir  Horatio 
Townshend.  He  was  among  the  most  zealous  in  the  convention  Parliament 
for  the  restoration  of  the  royal  family,  and  sat  afterwards  in  the  House  of 
Commons  as  member  for  the  borough  of  Yarmouth.  His  name  appears  as 
one  of  the  commissioners  appointed  by  the  House  of  Commons,  out  of  their 
own  members,  to  see  the  army  disbanded  in  1661,  and  he  was  chosen  by 
the  city  of  Norwich,  with  three  other  gentlemen  of  distinction,  viz.,  Sir 
Horatio  Townshend,  Sir  John  Holland,  and  Sir  Ralph  Hare,  to  wait  on  the 
King,  soon  after  his  return,  with  the  resignation  of  their  charter,  which  His 
Majesty  graciously  restored  to  them.  In  the  year  1663,  2gth  July,  he  was 
created  a  baronet,  and  dying  in  Nov.  1677,'  left  issue  by  Margaret  Randal, 
of  Pulham  and  Denton,  in  Norfolk,  stepdaughter  of  Sir  Robert  Bacon, 
Bart.,  six  daughters  and  three  sons. 

Sir  William  D'Oyly,  the  eldest  son  and  2nd  Bart.,  of  Pond  Hall  and 
Shottisham,  was  knighted  3oth  April,  1664,  in  the  lifetime  of  his  father,  and 
styled  Sir  William  the  younger.  Appointed  one  of  the  four  Tellers  of 
Exchequer  in  1666-7,  ^e  married  Mary,  daughter  of  John  Hadley,  of  East 
Barnet,  in  Middlesex,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  and  also  sister  of  Anne, 
the  first  wife  of  Arthur  Herbert,  the  celebrated  Admiral,  Earl  of  Torrington, 
by  whom  he  had  5  sons,  besides  daughters.  On  Sir  William  D'Oyly's 
death  in  i68o,2  the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son,  Sir  Edmund  D'Oyly, 
3rd  Bart.,  who  married  I3th  Nov.  1684,  Dorothy,  eldest  daughter  of  Philip 
Bedingfield,  of  Ditchingham,  in  Norfolk,  and  by  her  had  two  sons  and  a 
daughter,  and  died  in  Oct.  1700.  To  him  succeeded  his  son  and  heir,  Sir 
Edmund  D'Oyly,  4th  Bart.,  who  died  unmarried  in  1763. 

The  manor  must,  however,  have  been  disposed  of  in  his  lifetime,  for  we 
find  Richard  Berney  lord  of  this  manor  and  the  Manors  of  Toppesfield  and 
Cosford  Hall  in  1726,  as  a  rental  which  the  writer  has  seen  demonstrates. 
The  manor  later,  and  before  the  year  1735,  was  acquired  by  Lionel 
Tollemache,  4th  Earl  of  Dysart,  and  from  this  time  to  the  death  of 
Louisa,  Countess  of  Dysart,  22nd  Sept.  1840,  the  manor  passed  in  the 
same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Helmingham,  in  Bosmere  and  Claydon 
Hundred. 

On  the  death  of  the  Countess  the  manor  seems  to  have  gone  to  the 
Hon.  Algernon  Tollemache,  who  sold  it  in  1845  to  Robert  Kersey,  of  Had- 
leigh. 

'Will  and  June,  1677,  not  proved.  "Admin.  23rd  July,  1680. 


HADLEIGH.  163 

In  1855  the  manor  was  held  by  C.  and  R.  Kersey,  and  in  1885  by  Samuel 
Overbury  Kersey,  who  died  about  1902,  and  is  now  in  the  representatives 
of  the  last-named  gentleman. 

The  following  is  an  extract  from  an  old  rental  of  the  manor  dated 
1663  :- 

HADLEIGH  POND  HALL  MANOR. 

The  particulars  of  the  quit  rents  payable  out  of  the  present  Mr. 
Hunlake's  estate  to  Pond  Hall  Manor,  copied  out  of  an  old  rent  roll  bearing 
date  1663. 

£  s.  d. 

Robert  Appleton  Esq.  for  a  capital!  messuage  wherein 
Mr.  Allubaste    late  dwell"  d  at  2s.  per  an.  and  a 
capon  or  4^.      ..          ..          ..          ..          ..          ..024 

of  Him  for  Hends  Croft  per  annum     . .          . .          ..068 

of  Him  for  a  messuage  L'.  Stephen  Gardiner  and  parall 
of  Hewds  Croft  at  i.  id.  per  ann.  and  for  the  said 
messuage  2  capons  at  8d.       . .         . .         . .         ..019 

Of  Him  for  another  parcell  of  Hewds  Croft  at  per  ann. . .     048 
Of  Him  for  a  Small  Tenement  at  ye  Gate  of  the  same 

messuage  at  6d.  per  annum  . .         . .          . .         ..006 


0  15  ii 

The  following  is  an  account  of  the  rent  of  the  manor  received  in  one 
year  to  Michaelmas,  1726  :— 

Rents    of    Pond    Hall    Manor    received    to    Michaelmas,   1726,  for 
i  year  only. 

£    s.  d. 

Mrs.  Eliz.  Buckenham     . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  oo  i  oo 

Mr.  George  Brook  . .         . .         . .         . .         , .         . .  oo  I  08 

Jon.  Golsborough  . .         . .         . ."         . .          . .  oo  o    6 

Mr.  Partridge  Ld.  Coveney          . .          . .         . .          . .  oo  5  10 

Mr.  Ward    . .         . .         . .         . .          . .          . .          . .  oo  4    3 

Jno.  Smith  . .          . .         . .         . .         . .          . .  oo  i     o 

Wm.  Gaell  . .         . .         . .         . .         . .          . .          . .  oo  o     2 

Wm.  Cutbort         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  oo  i     o 

Joseph  Bragg         oo  o    6 

Wm.  Deekes           . .         . .         . .          . .          . .  oo  3     2 

Esq.  Powis  . .         . .         . .          . .         . .          . .         . .  oo  o    6 

Rev.  Wm.  Golly  his  part  for  Pond  and  Tops.  Manors. .  oo  12     2 

1  ii     9 
Arms  of  D'OYLY  :  Gules,  three  bucks'  heads  caboshed  Arg.  attired  Or. 


MANOR  OF  TOPPESFIELD  OR  TOPPESFIELD  HALL. 

Among  the  lands  of  Archbishop  Lanfranc  was  a  manor  which  had 
formerly  been  held  by  a  freewoman  named  Leveva,  consisting  of  2  carucates 
of  land,  2  bordars  (which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  had  increased  to  5), 
i  serf,  2  ploughteams,  5  acres  of  meadow,  and  i  mill.  Also  7  sheep  (which 
at  the  time  of  the  Survey  had  increased  to  34),  3  beasts,  and  i  rouncy. 
The  value  was  6os.,  formerly  having  been  405.  Out  of  this  land  Leveva 


164  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

gave  half  a  carucate  to  Holy  Trinity  after  her  death,  in  return  for  another 
half  carucate  which  she  held  of  the  archbishop  in  her  lifetime.  This 
agreement  was  made  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor,  and  Leveva  was  living  in 
King  William's  time,  and  was  seised  thereof.  This  land  John,  the  nephew 
of  Waleran,  claimed.  The  soc  and  sac  of  it  all  belonged  to  the  Abbot 
of  Bury.1 

Another  holding  among  these  lands  of  the  archbishop  consisted  of 
20  acres,  formerly  held  by  a  freeman,5  over  whom  Uluric,  the  predecessor 
of  the  Abbot  of  Bury,  had  commendation  and  soc  in  the  time  of  the 
Confessor,  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  35.  ^d. 

This  manor  seems  in  the  time  of  Hen.  III.  to  have  belonged  to  Gilbert 
de  Kirkeby  and  Lauretia  or  Letitia,  his  wife,  and  they  had  a  grant  of  a 
market  and  fair  here  in  1252. 3  There  appears  to  have  been  a  fine  affecting 
at  least  a  part  of  the  manor  in  1250  between  Geoffrey  de  Percy  and  this 
Gilbert  de  Kirkeby  and  his  wife.  Gilbert  de  Kirkeby  appears  to  have  died 
before  1276,  and  this  year  we  find  on  the  Patent  Rolls  an  action  between 
William  de  Fankhem  and  John  de  Kirkeby  and  Margaret  his  wife  touching 
a  tenement  in  Hadleigh.4  A  fine  of  the  manor  was  levied  in  1283  between 
John  de  Kyrkeby  and  Margaret  his  wife  and  Lord  de  Ros.5  Amongst  the 
ancient  deeds  of  the  Court  of  Chancery  in  the  Public  Record  Office  is  a 
grant  in  the  i3th  century  by  Philip  Basset  and  Lady  Lora  de  Ros  of  a 
market  in  Hadleigh  (which  had  been  annulled  or  put  down  according  to  the 
law  and  custom  of  England  on  the  presentment  of  Sir  Nicholas  de  Turzy 
and  his  fellow  justices  itinerant  at  Catteshall,  Suffolk,  in  1269)  for  her  life, 
with  remainders  to  Sir  Robert  Kokerel  and  Joan  his  wife,  daughter  and 
heir  of  the  said  Lora,  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Lora.6 

Joan  disposed  of  the  manor  during  her  life  to  John  de  Kirkby,  of  Horton, 
and  Margaret  his  wife.  The  transaction  was  the  cause  of  a  long  suit 
between  John  de  Kirkby  and  Cicely,  late  wife  of  Sir  William  Cokerel.  The 
latter  was  enfeoffed  in  this  manor  upon  the  payment  of  180  marks,  and 
the  defeasance  of  a  recognisance  for  £400  by  John  de  "  Kyrkeby  "  to  the  said 
William  in  1343.  On  Sir  William  Cockerel  and  his  widow  Cecily's  death, 
the  manor  passed  to  their  daughter  and  coheir,  Mary,  married  to  Sir  William 
de  Clopton,  and  the  suit  with  Sir  John  de  Kirkby  seems  to  have  continued, 
for  amongst  the  ancient  deeds  of  the  Court  of  Chancery  in  the  Public  Record 
Office  is  another  defeasance  respecting  the  manor  made  in  1351.  It  is  for 
£200  by  Sir  Johnde"  Kyrkiby,"  described  as  of  Horton,  Knight,  to  William 
Fitz Walter,  of  Clopton,  and  entered  into  in  connection  with  the  settle- 
ment of  the  suit  between  the  said  John  and  Cecily,  late  the  wife  of  Sir 
William  "  Cokerel,"  by  which,  if  the  said  John  enfeoffed  the  said  William  of 
the  Manor  of  Toppesfield  within  a  specified  time,  William  paying  to  John 
180  marks,  the  said  recognisance  should  be  void.7  In  1369  a  fine  was 
levied  of  a  third  part  of  the  manor  in  which  William  de  Bury  and  Alice  his 
wife  were  plaintiffs  and  William  de  Clopton  sen.  deforciant.8 

The  feoffment  referred  to  in  the  above  defeasance  seems  to  have  been 
effected,  for  on  Sir  W'illiam  Clopton's  death  in  1376  the  manor  passed  under 
his  will  dated  "  Die  Jovis  in  festo  Sancti  Vincentii  martiris  1376,"  to  his 
third  son,  Walter  de  Clopton. 

'Dom.  ii.  3726.  'Feet  of  Fines,  n  Edw.  1.  27. 

*Ib.  «C.  204. 

'Chart.  Rolls,  36  Hen.  III.  10  ;  Charter         '24  Edw.  III.  C.  2482. 

confirming  P.S.A.  iv.  144.  "Feet  of  Fines,  42  Edw.  III.  39. 

4  Pat.  Rolls,  4  Edw.  I.  24^. 


HADLEIGH.  165 

The  devise  was  "  Item,  lego  Waltero  filio  meo  in  Manerio  de  Toppisfeld 
in  villa  de  Hadleye  unam  carucam  cum  bestiis  et  toto  apparatu,  decem 
quarteria  frumenti,  decem  quarteria  hordei,  decem  quarteria  pisarum,  et 
decem  quarteria  a  venae." 

Walter  de  Clopton,  who  was  not  the  eldest  son  of  Sir  William,  married 
Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Pygot,  and  had  two  daughters — Alice, 
married  to  Thomas  Ben  dish,  of  Steeple  Bumpstead,  and  Elizabeth,  married 
to  John  Barwick.  Elizabeth,  the  widow,  remarried  Sir  John  Howard, 
Knt.,  and  subject  to  her  life  interest  the  manor  appears  ultimately  to  have 
passed  to  Sir  William  Clopton,  of  Kentwell,  son  of  Sir  Thomas  Clopton,  of 
Kentwell,  brother  of  Sir  William,  the  father  of  Sir  Walter,  the  deceased. 

Amongst  the  Essex  Suffolk  Charters  in  the  Bodleian  we  find  a  quit 
claim  in  1412  by  William,  son  of  Edward  Clopton,  to  Sir  John  Howard,  Sir 
Walter  Clopton,  Sir  Gerard  Braybrook,  Sir  William,  son  of  Sir  Thomas 
Clopton,  and  John  Bryan,  sen.,  of  all  his  right  in  the  "  Manor  of  Hadleigh, 
called  Topesfield  Hall,"  after  the  death  of  Elizabeth,  consort  of  the  said 
Walter  Clopton,  for  the  lives  of  Alice  and  Elizabeth,  daughters  of  the  said 
Walter  and  Elizabeth.1  This  William  Clopton  making  the  quit  claim  was 
the  son  of  Sir  Edmund,  elder  brother  of  Sir  Walter,  and  he  died  without 
issue,  and  the  William  Clopton  to  whom  the  release  was  made  was  the  eldest 
son  of  Sir  Thomas  Clopton,  of  Kentwell. 

We  learn  further  from  the  Harleian  Rolls  in  the  British  Museum2 
that  there  were  disputes  as  to  the  title  to  this  manor  in  the  time  of  Hen. 
VI.,  and  in  1422  we  find  amongst  the  Essex  Charters  in  the  Bodleian  two 
quit  claims,  one  by  Sir  Gerard  Braybroke  to  Robert  Caundyish,  Thomas 
Mylde,  John  Smyth,  and  Gilbert  Morell,  of  all  right  in  the  "  manor  of 
Topesfeld  given  to  them  after  the  death  of  Elizabeth  Clopton  by  William 
Clopton  of  Melford,  and  John  Brian  of  Hadleigh."3 

The  second  quit  claim  is  by  William  Clopton, son  and  heir  of  Sir  Thomas 
Clopton  to  Elizabeth,  who  was  the  wife  of  Sir  Walter  Clopton  and  Alice 
Bendyssh,  daughter  of  the  said  Walter,  of  all  right  in  the  manor.4 

Five  years  later  the  manor  had  passed  to  W'illiam  de  Clopton,  for  in 
1438  he  granted  to  24  trustees  land  called  Church  croft  belonging  to  the 
Manor  of  Toppesfield  Hall,  with  a  building  therein  used  as  the  market- 
house,  and  all  the  liberties,  rights,  and  customs  belonging  to  the  market 
and  fairs  except  the  assize  of  bread,  and  all  waifs,  strays,  forfeitures,  &c., 
to  be  held  by  them  and  their  heirs  at  the  yearly  rent  of  6s.  8d.  The  property 
and  privileges  comprised  in  this  grant  have  been  transferred  from  time  to 
time  to  new  trustees  upon  trust  that  the  rents  and  profits  should  be 
employed  for  the  relief  of  the  poor,  the  reparation  of  the  church,  and  other 
public  uses.  The  trust  property  comprises  the  town  hall,  corn  exchange, 
and  various  other  buildings  in  and  near  the  Market  Place,  let  for  about 
£120  a  year.  The  trustees  also  derive  about  £40  or  £50  from  stallage,  &c. 
A  new  scheme  was  in  1850  sanctioned  by  the  Court  of  Chancery  for  the 
future  application  of  this  trust,  and  the  trustees  were  empowered  to  estab- 
lish a  school  for  40  poor  boys,  with  a  yearly  salary  of  £50  for  the  school- 
master, and  to  allow  £2  each  per  annum  to  the  12  occupants  of  the  alms- 
houses  in  the  churchyard.  They  have  also  built  a  new  town  hall  adjoining 
the  old  one. 

'13  Hen.  IV.  Bodl.  Essex  Ch.  200.  3i  Hen.  VI.,  Bodl.  Essex  Ch.  201. 

'Harl.  Rolls,  i.  14.  « Ib.  202. 


166  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

In  1470  William  de  Clopton  sold  the  manor  to  Thomas  Bendish.  The 
manor  appears  next  to  have  vested  in  Edward  D'Oyly,who  died  in  1534-5,' 
when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Henry  D'Oyly,  and  on  his  death 
in  1563  went  to  his  son,  Henry  D'Oyly.  Davy  says  that  in  1602  "  the  site 
of  the  manor  was  held  by  Nicholas  Strutt,  and  on  his  death  passed  to  his 
son  and  heir,  Nicholas  Strutt."  But  the  manor  on  Henry  D'Oyly's  death 
certainly  passed  to  his  son,  Edmund  D'Oyly,  who  was  High  Sheriff  of  Nor- 
folk in  1604, and  the  writer  has  seen  Court  Rollb  of  the  Manor  of  Courts  held 
by  this  Edmund,  the  2nd  Nov.  1577;  I5th  Oct.  1588;  and  27th  May,  1589, 
these  being  in  existence  and  in  private  hands. 

He  died  in  Oct.  1612,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir 
Henry  D'Oyly.  He  does  not  seem  to  have  held  any  courts,  these  being 
held  by  Charles  Vesey  and  Catherine  his  wite,  as  follows :  7th  April,  1615; 
28th  March,  1616;  loth  June,  1617;  nth  Sept.  1617 ;  5th  Oct.  1618;  3oth 
March,  1619  ;  icrth  Dec.  1619  ;  and  27th  Sept.  1621.  From  this  we  are 
inclined  to  infer  that  Catherine,  the  2nd  wife  of  the  last  Edmund  D'Oyly, 
took  the  manor  in  dower  or  under  a  settlement  or  her  husband's  will  for 
life,  and  that  she  had  remarried  Charles  Vesey.  As  Sir  Henry  D'Oyly 
died  in  1616  he  would  therefore  never  have  enjoyed  the  lordship.  Sir 
Henry's  ron  and  heir,  Edmund  D'Oyly,  no  doubt  had  the  manor  on  the  death 
of  his  grandmother,  and  we  find  he  held  his  first  court  4th  April,  1637.  He 
most  likely  also  held  the  court  (the  Court  Rolls,  however,  do  not  give  the 
name  of  the  lord)  I3th  March,  1637.  He  died  28th  Sept.  1638,  and  the 
manor  went  to  his  widow,  Bridget,  who  held  a  court  26th  Sept.  1639,  and 
probably  also  i4th  Jan.  1639  ;  gth  April,  1640 ;  and  8th  July,  1640,  though 
the  names  of  the  holders  of  the  last  three  courts  do  not  appear  on  the 
Court  Rolls.  On  Bridget's  death,  the  manor  passed  to  Edmund's  only 
child,  Susan,  who  died  young.  A  court  for  the  manor  was  held  5th  April, 
1642,  by  John  Buxton  and  Edward  Cooke,  no  doubt  as  trustees  on  behalf 
of  the  infant. 

The  manor  then  passed  to  Sir  William  D'Oyly,  eldest  son  of  William 
the  brother  of  Sir  Henry  D'Oyly,  who  had  died  in  1616.  He  probably 
held  a  court  for  the  manor  24th  Oct.  1648,  though  the  name  of  the  lord  does 
not  appear  on  the  Rolls,  and  certainly  under  his  name  courts  were  held  as 
follows:  I3th  Apl.  1649  ;i5th  Oct.  1651;  15th  Oct.  1652  ;  8th  Apl.  1657;  6th 
Apl.  1658;  i2th  Oct.  1658;  i8thOct.  13  Car.  II.;  isth  Jan.  13  Car.  II.;  7th 
June,  1662;  ist  Oct.  1662;  3rd  Nov.  15  Car.  II.;  2nd  Jan.  1668;  andi3thOct. 
1670.  He  died  in  1677.  Davy  makes  Sir  Denner  Strutt,  Bart,  lord2 
in  1655,  and  in  1658  Philip  Eldred.  Sir  Denner  Strutt  was  the  son  of  John 
Strutt  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  daughter  and  heir  of  Edward  Denner,  of 
Little  Warley,  in  Essex.  It  is  possible  that  Sir  Denner  Strutt  was  a 
mortgagee  in  possession,  and  held  a  court  in  1655,  and  this  may  have  misled 
Davy.  It  is  curious  that  in  the  Court  Rolls  the  writer  has  seen  there  is 
no  entry  between  1652  and  1657. 

In  1726  the  manor  was  in  Richard  Berney.  In  1735  the  manor  was 
vested  in  the  Right  Hon.  Lionel,  4th  Earl  of  Dysart,  and  he  held  courts  as 
follows  :  25th  Nov.  1735;  gth  Oct.  1736;  4th  Oct.  1738;  3Oth  Aug.  1739; 
2gth  Aug.  1740  ;  6th  April,  1742  ;  I7th  Dec.  1747  ;  and  gth  Aug.  1748. 

All  the  Court  Rolls  above  referred  to  are  in  existence  and  in  private 
hands,  having  been  seen  by  the  writer. 

'See  Pond   Hall  Manor,  in  Hadleigh.  a He  was  a  delinquent  in  1651  (S.P.  1651, 

com.  for  money  advance  1386). 


HADLEIGH.  167 

In  1855  this  manor  belonged  to  the  Rev.  Edward  Daniel,  from  whom 
it  passed  to  the  Rev.  Richard  Daniel,  rector  of  Combs,  who  sold  the  same 
to  John  Frederick  Robinson,  from  whose  mortgagees  the  manor  was 
acquired  in  October,  1880, by,  and  the  same  is  now  vested  in,  Charles  James 
Grimwade,  of  Hadleigh. 

The  following  are  accounts  of  payments  of  rents  for  this  manor  for 
several  years  to  Michaelmas,  1726,  and  also  of  rents  received  for  one  year 
to  Michaelmas,  1726: — 

Payments  of  Rents  for  Toppesfield  Manor  to  Michaelmas,  1726,  for 

several  years. 

1726.  £    s.   d. 

Dec.  19.     Reed,  of  Mat.  Davey  for  Esq.  Dewtrys  Have 

now  ye  Chequer  for  8  years  . .          . .          . .  94 

26.     of  Tho.  Cock  for  2  years          . .          . .          . .  54 

Jan.  20.    of  Mrs.  Barrel  Wid.  for  her  hop  ye  8  years  . .          80 
of  Mr.  Dubbell  2  years  Cosford  Manor          . .  80 

Feb.     8.     of  Wm.  Clover  senr.  for  Ben.  Clover?  7  years. .  2     4 

13.    of  Mr.  Sam  Goshawk  for  9  years  of  Babing- 

ton  Close  at  i6s.  Sd.  per  ann.  &c.  . .     7  10    o 

1727 

June    2.    of  Jon.  Goldingjun.  for  Sd.  Spells  2  years      ..     o  10    o 
July  28.     Reed,  of  Mr.  Isaachs  for  13  years  and  \  lords 
rent,  being  yd.  remaining  moiety  of  Lady 
Land  Wood  . .         . .         . .         . .     2  16    o 

Reed,  att  the  same  time  of  Mr.  J .  Dood  4  for 
£  a  years  of  ye  same  wood,  due  on  Michael 
last  . .  . .  . .  . .  . .  . .  40 

12  13    o 
Hadleigh,  Toppesfield  Hall. 

Rents  of  Toppesfield  Hall  Manor  Reed,  to  Michaelmas,  1726,  for  i  year. 

Mr.Quinton  . .  . .         . .          . .         . .         . .          . .  72 

Lt.  J .  Dowman  . .         . .         . .         . .          . .          . .  i     o 

Jno.  Lulpeck  . .         . .          . .          . .         . .          . .  i     6 

Lt.  Mr.  Bonds  2  n 

Isaac  Peeck  . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  i     o 

Mr.  Jon.  Deve  . .         . .         . .          . .         . .          . .  43 

Wm.  Rand    . .  . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  44 

Mr.Clark 72 

Mr.  Gregory  . .  . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  30 

Mr.  Wilson    . .  . .          . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  i     o 

Mr.  Johnson  . .  . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  8 

Isaac  Sponer. .  . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  12 

i  15    2 

Reed,  of  Ben.  Coleman  for  a  year  Quit  Rent  of  a  Baror 
on  Hill  Street  Lt.  Mrs.  Jo.  Coleman  or  Mrs.  Pinchams . .     o    o  10 

Total    i  16    o 


168  THE    MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

i    s.   d. 

Jo.  Bragg 10 

Mr.  Partridge           . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  76 

Mr.  Dawson  . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  19 

Mr.  Thos.  Martin     . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  i    6 

Dr.  Wallace             ..         ..         ..         ..         ..         ..  211 

Esq.  Powis    . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  14    o 

Root.  Peason           . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  30 

Robt.  Norriss           . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  01 

Jo.  Glanfield. .         ..         ..         ..         ..         ..         ..  24 

Thos.  Seaker            . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  28 

Jno.  Turner             . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  6 

James  Reason          . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  8 

The  Meeting  house              6 

Mrs.  Jon.  Parsons    . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  82 

Mr.  Ed.  Buckenham           . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  4 

Robt.  Reason           . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  20 

Jo.  Bragg      . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  ii 

Jno.  Spells 12 

Esq.  Power  . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  6    y£ 

The  Collector  for  ye  Poors  lands. .         . .         . .         ..153 

The  Bayliff  of  ye  market  ..         ..         ..         ..         ..088 

Dr.  Wilkin 8 

Mr.  Canychin           . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  5 

Mr.  Whiting             65 

Hen.  White  . .         . .         . .         . .         . .          . .         . .  38 

School  meadow        . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  6 

R.  Reason  Lt  youngs         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  50 

Jno.  Anne     . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  2 

Jo.  Bragg      . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  50 

Wm.  Reed    . .          . .          . .          . .         . .         . .         . .  17 

Ben.  Coleman                                 . .                    . .  11 


5  15    5i 
Note. — There  were  other  payments  for  several  years. 

MANOR  OF  MAUSER'S  OR  HADLEIGH  IN  HADLEIGH. 

This  was  probably  the  manor  of  which  Walter  de  Bermyngham,  of  the 
inheritance  of  John  de  Avenington,  died  seised  in  1351.' 

On  the  Patent  Rolls  in  1386  we  find  mention  of  Amfelota,  late  wife  of 
William  Maunser,  of  Hadleigh,  and  John,  son  of  William  Maunser.1 

In  the  time  of  Hen.  VII.  the  manor  was  vested  in  John  Timperley,  the 
elder,  who  died  in  1491.  In  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  this  John  Timperley, 
the  property  he  died  seised  of  is  described  as  Manor  called  Mausers,  and 
water  mill  worth  ioos.,  and  other  lands  in  Hadleigh  and  Aldham,  and 
another  tenement  called  "  Hadleys  "  in  Hadleigh,  held  of  the  prior  of  Christ 
Church,  in  Canterbury.3  Sir  John  Timperley,  was  at  the  time  of  hit  father's 
death,  46  years  of  age,  and  on  his  own  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  nephew 
and  heir,  William  Timperley,  who  died  ist  April,  1527,*  when  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Timperley. 

'I.P.M.,  24  Edw.  III.  106.  JI.P.M.,  8  Hen.  VII.  809. 

'Pat.  Rolls,  10  Rich.  II.  pt.  i.  47.  4I.P.M.,  21  Hen.  VIII.  15. 


HADLEIGH.  169 

The  manor  in  the  inquisition  p.m  last  referred  to  is  stated  to  have  been 
held  of  the  Manor  of  Combs  by  service  unknown,  and  was  valued  at  £10, 
and  on  the  death  of  Thomas  Timperley  in  1593  vested  in  his  son  and  heir, 
Nicholas  Timperley.  Nicholas1  died  in  1624,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his 
son  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  Timperley,  and  on  his  death  2gth  April,  1651, 
went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Michael  Timperley. 

Amongst  the  State  Papers  in  1652  is  a  petition  from  Nicholas  Timperley, 
uncle  of  Michael,. for  Thomas, Michael's  son  and  heir, that  Michael, being  only 
tenant  for  life,  may  be  stayed  from  felling  all  the  timber  and  pulling  down 
the  houses  on  the  estate,  as  he  threatened  to  do,  and  the  following  year 
Michael  begs  that  some  other  lands  may  be  set  out  for  his  third  of  his  estate 
sequestered  for  recusancy,  the  lands  in  Hadleigh,  valued  at  £80  a  year, 
set  out  for  him,  being  recovered  by  law  from  his  tenant.2  Michael  Timperley 
in  1653  also  prays  an  order  on  his  trustees,  Sir  Henry  and  Henry  Beding- 
field,  and  his  uncle  Nicholas  Timperley,  to  bring  in  the  deeds  whereby  his 
father  and  he  conveyed  their  lands  to  them,  Nicholas  Timperley  having 
thereby  recovered  Hadleigh  from  petitioner.3  From  this  time  to  1705  the 
manor  passed  in  the  same  course  as  that  of  Hintlesham,  in  Samford  Hundred. 
Thomas  Timperley  held  his  first  court  in  1661,  and  on  his  death  the  manor 
vested  in  Sir  Philip  Parker,  Bart.,  John  Hodges,  and  John  Jermy,  no  doubt 
as  trustees,  and  they  held  their  first  court  in  1680. 

In  1699  the  manor  was  vested  in  Susannah  Timperley,  widow,  as 
mother  and  guardian  of  Henry  Timperley,  then  a  minor,  and  in  this  year 
she  held  her  first  court.  In  1705  a  first  court  was  held  for  Henry  Timperley 
by  his  guardian. 

The  manor  then  seems  to  have  been  acquired  by  Sir  Richard  Lloyd, 
Baron  of  the  Exchequer,  who  purchased  also  the  Manor  of  Hintlesham, 
and  died  in  1761  ;  and  from  this  time  to  the  present  the  manor  has  passed 
in  the  same  course  as  that  of  Hintlesham,  in  Samford  Hundred,  and  is  now 
vested  in  Lieut.-Col.  Robert  Hamilton  Lloyd  Anstruther,  of  Hintlesham 
Hall. 

The  manor  was  offered  for  sale  by  public  auction,  i6th  June,  1908,  and 
the  free  rents  were  then  stated  to  amount  to  is.  2d.  only,  and  the  quit 
rents  to  i6s.  gd. 

COSFORD  HALL. 

In  1370  the  manor  appears  to  have  been  vested  in  Bernard  Donate 
and  Cecilia  his  wife,  and  against  them  this  year  a  fine  was  levied  by  John 
de  Freton,  parson  of  Great  Snoriny  Church,  in  Norfolk,  William  Reed, 
clerk,  and  Thomas  de  Milford.4 

In  1398  the  manor  was  vested  in  John  Hermesthorp,  Master  of  the 
College  of  St.  Katherine,  London,  Roger  Wolverston,  and  others,  for  this 
year  they  enfeoffed  Edward  Leget  and  Joan  his  wife,  daughter  of  John 
Jernegan,  of  Somerleyton,  and  amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the 
British  Museum  is  an  appointment  of  attorneys  to  deliver  seisin  accordingly.5 
It  is  dated  6th  May,  21  Rich.  II.  From  Edward  Leget  the  manor  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  Edward  Leget,  against  whom  a  fine  was  levied  of  the 
manor,  and  also  of  the  advowson  of  Whatfield  Church,  in  1423,  by  William 
Clopton,  Robert  Cavendysh,  Thomas  Martell,  Augustus  Denten,  Thomas 
Benet,  John  Holt,  and  Robert  Clopton.6  Five  years  later  we  meet  with 

'For  the  alliances  of  the  Timperleys,  see  3S.P.  1653;  Cal.  of  Comp.  2134. 

Hintlesham     Manor     in     Samford  4Feet  of  Fines,  44  Edw.  III.  18. 

Hundred.  'Add.  Ch.  10571. 

'S.P.,  Cal.  of  Comp.  2133.  «Feet  of  Fines,  i  Hen.  VI.  3. 

X 


I7o  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

another  fine  of  the  manor  levied  by  Robert  Clopton,  of  London,  against 
Thomas,  son  of  Elminger  Leget,  described  as  late  of  Essex.1 

This  manor  belonged  to  Edward  D'Oyly,  who  died  seised  of  it  25th 
Jan.  1534,'  when  it  passed  to  his  son,  Sir  Henry  D'Oyly,  against  whom  a 
fine  was  levied  in  1544  by  John  Freman.3  Sir  Henry  D'Oyly,  however, 
died  seised  of  the  manor  in  1564.  From  this  time  to  1821,  when  it  was 
vested  in  Louisa,  Countess  of  Dysart,  it  went  with  Pond  Hall  Manor,  the 
devolution  of  which  has  been  already  given. 

About  1860  the  manor  vested  in  the  Rev.  Richard  Daniel,  who  sold 
to  John  Frederick  Robinson,  of  Hadleigh  Hall,  and  it  was  sold  by  his 
mortgagees  in  1880. 

Court  Rolls  for  the  manor  held  26th  Oct.  1648;  i6th  Oct.  1651;  i6th 
Oct.  1652;  26th  April,  1653;  2;th  Sept.  1655;  and  i;th  April,  1657,  are  still 
preserved  in  private  hands. 

The  following  is  a  copy  of  a  rental  of  this  manor  in  1726. 

Hadleigh  Cosford  Hall  Manor. 

Reed,  for  i  year  to  Michaelmas,  1726.  £    s.   d. 

Mr.  Tweed    . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  . .  . .  16    o 

Mr.  Green      . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  . .  . .  20 

Mr.  Jennings  ..         ..         ..         ..  ..  ..112 

Mr.  Parsons             . .         . .         . .         . .  . .  . .  18    3 

Jno.  Cook      . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  . .  . .  13    4 

Wm.  Cousins  by  a  year's  tax  2s.  and  in  money  . .  . .  18     o 

Mrs.  Ann  Lodge       ..         ..         ..         ..  ..  ..104 

Mr.  Edmd.  Stubbin             . .         . .         . .  . .  . .  80 

Jo.  Glanfield. .         ..         ..         ..         ..  ..  ..  19 

Mr.  Robert  Martin  . .         . .         . .         . .  . .  . .  10    o 

Mr.  Mayhew             . .         . .         . .          . .  . .  . .  i     o 

Wm.  Cobbold           . .         . .         . .         . .  . .  . .  i     o 

Mr.  Livermore         . .         . .         . .         . .  . .  . .  20 

Mr.  Burkit 4 

Mr.  Snelling  . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  . .  . .  i    8 

Wid.  Jacob   . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  . .  . .  4 

Wid.  Keeble  2    o 


Total  of  ye  abovesd  . .         . .         . .        6  17    2 

The  following  is  an  account  of  quit  rents  of  the  manor  of  Pond  Hall, 
Toppes field  Hall,  and  Cosford,  when  in  the  hands  of  Richard  Berney  in 
1725  :- 

An  account  of  what  Sums  of   Money    and  what    Persons  I.  J. 
Miller  have  Reed.  Quit  Rents,  the  Manors  of  Pond  Hall,  Topsfield  Hall, 
and  Cosford,  forming  part  of  the  Estate  of  Richard  Berney  Esq. 

i    s.  d. 
Aug.    2.     Recd.ofMdme.  Dawson  for  b  years  Quit  Rent 

of  her  dwellinghouse  due  at  Michls.  last . .  oo    8  oo 
Oct.     i.     Reed,  of  Mr.  Isaacks  for  Mr.  Mayhews  fine 

of  Sr.  Jo.  Colemans. .         . .         . .         . .     i     5  oo 

Also  7  years  Quit  Rent  of  ye  same  Estate 

at  55.  $d.  p.  annum. .          ..         ..  i  16    9 

Of  Mr.  Robert  Reason  for  a  Quit  Rent         . .         10    6 

•  Feet  of  Fines,  6  Hen.  VI.  35.  s  Fine,  Easter,  36  Hen.  VIII. 

•I.P.M.,  26  Hen.  VIII.  103. 


HADLEIGH.  171 

£  s.  d. 

Of  Mr.  Jon.  Dove  for  his  own  messuages     . .  43 

Of  Mr.  Jn.  Dove  for  the  Poor  of  Hadleigh  . .  53 

Of  Mr.  Everet  for  Mr.  Partridge's  estate     . .  13     4 
Of  Mr.  Jno.  Bunn  for  the  Rowe  of  houses  in 

Churchyard  Wide    . .         . .         . .         . .  60 

Of  Mdme.  Dawson       . .         . .         .1         . .  14 

Of  Hen.  White             08 

Of  Isaac  Peck  . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  20 

Of  Wm.  Rand 40 

Of  John  Lulpeal           . .          . .         . .         . .  i     o 

Of  Mr.  Ed.  Buckenham 
Of  Jos.  Dowman 
Of  Jon.  Golsborough 

Oct.     2.     Of  Mr.  Robt.  Martin  for  2  years  Rent  . .     i     o    o 

Of  ye  Widd.  Jacobs  for  2  years 
Of  Robt.  Morrington  for  Lt.  Hudsons  now 

Mr.  Tho.  Green         . .         . .         . .         . .  20 

i.     Reed,  of  Mr.Winde  for  8  years  Rent  of  Rush- 

feld,  i.e.  Ed.  Bonds. .         ..         ..         ..131 

4.    Of  James  Reason          . .         . .         . .         . .  i     o 

Of  Wm.  Cobbold  of  Whatfield            ..         ..  i     o 

18.  Of  Mr.  Edmd.  Stubbin  for  u  years   . .         ..480 

25.  Of  James  Amrid  for  7  years    ..         ..         ..          12 

Of  Mr.  Johnson  for  2  years  . .         . .          14 

2nd  page 

26.  Reed,  of  Thos.  Seeker  for  2  years       . .         . .  54 
Of  Mr.  Elisa  Buckenham  i  year         . .         . .          i    o 

28.  Of  Mr.  J .  Newman  for  Mr  Clarke   meadow    i 

year  . .         . .         ...        . .         . .         . .          72 

29.  Of  Jon.  Golding  for  9  years  of  Mr.  Whiting's 

land 2  17    9 

30.  Of  Dr.  Wallace  for  8  years  Qt.  Rent. .         ..134 
Dec.     2.    Of  Mr.  Tho.  Martin  one  year  ..         ..         ..  i     6 

9.    Of  Wm.  Baker  of  ye  Ivey  Tree  i  year  . .  20 

II.    Of  Jo.  Claniield  a  year  and  £  . .         . .         . .  6     i| 

13.     Of  Jon.  Cook  i  year     . .         . .         . .         . .         13    4 

Of  Robt.  Archer  2  years         . .         . .         . .  40 

Of  Tho.  Cutbert  for  Mr.  Jennings  i  year      ..112 

19.  Of  Mr.  James  Martin  for  Mrs.  Lodger  estate.  .208 

20.  Of  Wm.  Cozens  2  years  in  money  35.  6d.  in 

Taxes  2s.  for  405.    . .         . .         . .         . .     i  16    o 

Of  J.  Bragg  7  years  of  a  Tenement  at  nd. 

per  ann.  and  2  years  of  the  rest      ..         ..         19    5 

21.  Of  Jon.  Turner  for  2  years  of  the  market 

Rent  175.  gd.t  and  for  2  years  of  Mr. 
Quintons  45. 4^.  and  two  years  of  his  own 
in  Dools  use. .         ..         ..         ..         . .     I  12     8 

Of  Mr.  Deekes  for  10  years  of  a  piece  of  land 
Lt.  Thos.  Hunlakes  where  stood  2  Tenemts 
and  i  year  of  his  own  . .  . .  ..172 

22.  Of  Mr.  Cutbert  for  7  years  of  ye  school  house 

and  6  years  of  the  meadow . .         . .         . .         10    o 


172  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

£  s.   d. 

Dec.  27.  Of  Mr.  Tonyson  for  Mr.  Mayhews  i  year  . .  i  o 

Of  Thos.  Glanfield  for  Mrs.  Hurketts  16  years  5  4 

Of  Jo.  Bragg  for  the  Meeting  house  2  yr.  . .  i  o 

Of  Robt.  Blois  for  Mr.  Parsons  i  year  . .  18  3 

Jan.             4.    Of  Mr.  Campton  9  years  for  his  messuage     . .  89 

12.  Of  Mr.  Quintrill  for  Mr.  Beaumonds  7  years. .  8     2 

13.  Of  Wm.  Clover  for  8  years      . .          . .         . .  12     8 

15.    Of  Dr.  Wilkins  for  2  years      . .         . .         . .  14 

Sum  of  ye  abovesd. 

Brought  over 

Part  of  the  next  succeeding  Page 

Pd.  at  Thetford        39  n 

[Succeeding  Page.] 
1725-6. 
Feb.  15.    Received  of  Mr.  J no.  Parsons  for  8  years  Quit 

Rent '..354 

21.    Of  Mr.  Ward  for  6  years  of  Lt.  Howes  19.  oo) 

and  for  16  years  of  Hauches   Lt.   Wid.  -  i  16    4 
Wilkinsons  17.4      ..          ..          ..         ..) 

Of  Abrm.  Abbott  for  i6yrs  of  J. Smiths  Lt.W. 

Scot.  . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         1600 

Mar.  ii.    Of  Mrs.  Snelling  10  years       16    8 

Of  Mr.  Norriss  6  years  . .         . .          . .  6 

Of  Ben.  Coleman  i  year          . .         . .         . .  11 

12.  Of  Mr.  Gaell  9  years     . .         . .         . .         . .  i     6 

13.  Of  Mr.  Buddie  for  his  Lt.  Father's  estate 

due  at  Michaelmas  1724,  and  a  Relief  in 

all  8  years 10    8 

Carried  to  ye  foregoing  side  . .         . .     7  07  11 


HITCH  AM.  173 

HITCH  AM. 

HERE  were  several  holdings  here  belonging  to  the  Abbot  of 
Ely.  One  formerly  consisted  of  eleven  carucates  of  land, 
30  villeins,  18  bordars,  8  serfs,  4  ploughteams  in  demesne, 
20  ploughteams  belonging  to  the  men,  and  1 6  acres  of  meadow. 
Also  wood  sufficient  to  support  20  hogs,  n  rouncies,  30 
beasts,  175  sheep,  60  hogs,  42  goats,  and  2  hives  of  bees. 
Also  a  church  with  2  acres,  the  value  of  the  whole  being 
£20.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  the  details  were  altered.  The  villeins 
had  increased  to  36,  the  bordars  to  26,  and  the  ploughteams  in  demesne 
were  reduced  to  2.  The  value  had  doubled. 

It  was  a  league  and  4  quarentenes  long  and  a  league  broad,  and  paid 
in  a  gelt  15^.  In  the  time  of  the  Confessor  it  was  held  by  the  Abbot  of 
Ely,  and  others  had  holdings  here. 

The  second  holding  was  that  of  Roger  Bigot,  who  held  of  the  Abbot  of 
Ely  60  acres,  2\  ploughteams  (which  became  i  at  the  time  of  the  Survey), 
and  3  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  ios.,  formerly  held  by  5  socmen. 

In  the  same  township  were  123  acres  of  demesne  land,  3  bordars,  I 
ploughteam,  and  ij  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  ios.  Also  40  acres  valued 
at  55.  held  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  by  Richard,  son  of  Earl  Gislebert,  of 
the  Abbot  of  Ely,  and  formerly  by  i  socman.1 

Among  the  lands  of  Richard,  son  of  Earl  Gislebert,  at  the  time  of  the 
Survey  were  some  holdings  here.  One  was  held  of  him  by  Ailward,  son  of 
Bell,  and  consisted  of  i  carucate  of  land,  4  bordars,  2  serfs,  2  ploughteams 
(which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  had  become  i),  and  4  acres  of  meadow, 
valued  at  2os.  This  had  formerly  been  held  by  2  freemen. 

The  second  holding  was  of  60  acres,  2  ploughteams  (becoming  i  at 
the  time  of  the  Survey),  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  ios.,  formerly 
held  by  14  freemen.* 

There  is  an  entry  under  Babergh  Hundred  in  the  Domesday  Survey 
which  probably  belongs  to  Cosford-Loos.  This  was  a  hamlet  of  Hitcham. 
It  will  be  found  amongst  the  entries  of  the  lands  of  Ranulf  Peverell,  and 
consisted  of  a  carucate  and  a  half  of  land  which  Leustan  held  under  the 
Confessor.  It  was  "  God's  carucate  "  in  the  soc  of  Holy  Trinity,  in  Canter- 
bury. 

There  were  in  Saxon  times  6  bordars,  2  slaves,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne 
and  none  belonging  to  the  men,  10  beasts,  30  hogs,  and  74  sheep,  valued  at 
405.  By  the  time  of  the  Survey  though  the  value  remained  the  same,  the 
slaves  had  gone,  and  the  horses,  the  beasts,  the  hogs,  and  the  sheep  had  all 
disappeared.  The  length  was  half  a  league  and  the  breadth  4  quarentenes, 
and  it  paid  in  a  gelt  irf.3 

MANOR  OF  HITCHAM. 

The  lordship  of  the  place  belonged  in  the  time  of  Edward  the  Con- 
fessor to  the  Abbot  of  Ely,  and  later  vested  in  the  bishop  of  that  See. 

An  interesting  action  will  be  found  in  the  Abbreviation  of  Pleas  in  the 
first  year  of  King  John.  It  is  brought  by  Abbot  Sampson  against  Sir 
Osbert  de  Wachesham  for  having  unlawfully  raised  gallows  and  hung  a 
man  in  Hitcham  against  the  liberties  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds.  The  Bishop 

1  Dom.  ii.  3846,  385.  3Dom.  ii.  4166, 

'Dorn.  ii.  391,  3976. 


I74  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

of  Ely  having  vouched  to  warrantry  justifies  under  liberties  granted  by 
King  Edgar  to  the  church  of  St.  Etheldreda.' 

The  advowson  was  appendant  to  the  manor,  and  the  bishop  presented 
until  1561,  when  Queen  Elizabeth  took  the  manor  into  her  own  hands  in 
exchange  for  some  impropriation  in  Cambridgeshire,  and  then  first  pre- 
sented, and  the  patronage  has  since  remained  in  the  Crown. 

In  1597  a  lease  was  granted  of  the  site  of  the  manor  to  Margaret  Grey, 
widow,  and  her  sons,  Wingfield  and  Anthony,  for  their  three  lives  at  the 
rent  of  £14.  145.  4^.,  fine  £14.  145.  ^d. ;'  and  in  1599  a  survey  was  made 
of  Her  Majesty's  woods  in  Hitcham  Manor,3  and  again  in  1604.* 

The  Queen  had  the  manor  in  dower  in  1603,'  and  the  same  year  it  was 
leased  to  Sir  Robert  Hitcham  for  life. 

Ministers'  Accounts  of  the  bishop's  temporalities  in  Hitcham  in  14 
Edw.  I.  and  26  to  28  Edw.  I.  will  be  found  in  the  Public  Record  Office.6 
And  an  inquisition  of  lands  of  the  Bishop  of  Ely  here  in  the  30  Edw.  III. 
will  be  found  amongst  the  Additional  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum.7  There 
is  amongst  the  State  Papers  in  1611  a  letter  to  Sir  Geo.  Waldegrave  to 
preserve  the  King's  pheasants  at  Hitcham  Manor.8  A  lease  was  in  1619 
granted  of  the  manor  to  Sir  Robert  Houghton,9  but  he  seems  to  have 
obtained  the  reversion.  Sir  Robert,  who  was  a  serjeant-at-law,  died  seised 
of  the  manor  in  1623,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Francis  Houghton, 
who  died  in  1629,  when  it  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Houghton,  who 
was  living  in  1644.  In  1648  Giles  Andrews  had  a  grant  of  the  manor,  and 
amongst  the  State  Papers  in  1656-7  will  be  found  amounts  for  procuring 
timber  from  him  out  of  woods  in  Hitcham.10 

Giles  Andrews  died  unmarried  and  intestate,  and  was  buried  26th 
May,  1670,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  brother,  John  Andrew?,  who  died 
without  issue,  but  made  a  settlement  of  his  Hitcham  property  upon  Ambrose 
Andrews,  of  Wendon,  co.  Essex,  son  of  Giles  Andrews,  and  as  to  two-thirds 
to  his  (Ambrose's)  son  John.  John  Andrews,  the  settlor,  seems  to  have 
died  before  1682,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  widow  and  executrix 
Mary,  and  subject  to  her  interest  went  under  the  limitations  of  the  settle- 
ment, and  Ambrose  Andrews  was  lord  in  1688,  and  his  son  John  in  1708, 
when  an  Act  of  Parliament  (13  Anne)  was  obtained  for  sale  of  the  estates. 

Before  1728  the  manor  passed  to  Thomas  Buck,  for  this  year  he  held 
his  first  court  for  the  manor.  In  1762  it  was  vested  in  Ebenezer  Maurice. 
He  died  in  1787,  and  devised  the  manor  to  his  great-nephew  by  marriage, 
Robert  Mapletoft,  infant  son  of  Robert  Mapletoft,  son  of  Robert,  who  had 
married  his  (Maurice's)  sister,  and  it  vested  in  the  Rev.  Edmund  Mapletoft, 
clerk,  and  Margaret  his  wife,  late  widow  of  Robert  Mapletoft  the  elder,  as 
guardians  of  the  infant.  Robert  Mapletoft  the  younger  resided  at  Stan- 
stead,  and  3ist  Oct.  1808  married  Lucia,  2nd  daughter  of  William  Henry 
Haggard,  of  Spring  Hall,  near  Long  Melford,  but  by  1811  the  manor  had 
passed  to  Robert  Clarke,  according  to  the  Davy  MSS.  Page,  however, 
writing  in  1847,  states  that  the  manor  was  still  vested  in  Robert  Mapletoft, 
of  Spring  Hall,  in  Stanstead,  who  was  also  the  owner  of  Hitcham  Hall,  and 
a  large  commodious  farm  house,  and  of  Plains  Farm  and  102  acres  of  wood. 

'Abb.  of  PL,  I  John,  Mich.  7.  7Add.  6165. 

'State  Paper,  1597,  p.  461.  'S.P.  1611,  p.  95. 

JExch.     Spec.    Com.    41    Eliz.,    D.K.R.         9S.P.  1619,  p.  58.     See  Bret tenham  Hall 
38  App.  p.  6l.  Manor,  in  this  Hundred,  and  Liffey 

«/fr.  74.  Hall,  Buxhall,  in  Stow  Hundred. 

'Grant  i  Jac.  I,  Add.  6693.  »°S.P.  1656,  p.  518. 
•Bundle  1132,  No.  9,  10. 


HITCH  AM.  175 

The  manor  was  offered  for  sale  in  1843,  when  the  average  amount  of  fines 
for  the  previous  40  years  were  stated  to  have  exceeded  £160  per  annum 
and  the  quit  rents  were  £49  per  annum,  subject  to  a  fee  farm  rent  payable 
to  the  Marquis  Camden  of  £61.  los.  jd.  With  the  manor  were  offered  : 
The  Hitcham  Hall  farm,  22oa.  2r.  22p.  ;  the  Plains  farm,  I55a.  or.  35p.  ; 
and  Hitcham  Wood,  io2a.  ir.  i6p.' 

The  manor  is  now  vested  in  Mr.  Charles  James  Grimwade,  of  Hadleigh. 

Amongst  the  State  Papers  in  1603  will  be  found  a  letter  of  Edmund 
Poley,  steward  of  Hitcham  Manor,  which  office  was  claimed  by  Robert 
Hitcham.2  And  an  action  as  to  the  manor,  customs,  survey,  &c.,  by 
Margaret  Gage,  widow  of  William  Burwicke,  and  others  is  to  be  found 
amongst  the  Exchequer  Depositions  (taken  at  Hitcham  in  1607-8)  in  the 
Public  Record  Office. 

MANOR  OF  WITHERTON  al.  WITHERTON'S  (BARRARDS  AND  MANTONS.) 

This  probably  was  the  name  only  after  the  Manor  of  Manton  came  into 
the  same  hands  as  the  Manor  of  Witherton,  for  Manton  was  certainly  from 
the  Conquest  to  the  opening  of  the  I7th  century  held  as  a  distinct  lordship. 
The  first  lord  we  find  notice  of  was  a  Richard  Witherton,  and  later 
the  manor  vested  in  Sir  John  Clere,  who  held  in  1542,  when  it  was 
acquired  from  him  and  others  by  Edmund  Rous.3  It  is  stated  that  Sir 
Edmund  Rous  sold  the  manor  to  George  Waldegrave,  an  attorney  of  the 
Common  Pleas,  the  2nd  son  of  George  Waldegrave  and  of  Anne  his  wife, 
daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Drury,  of  Hawstead.  This,  however,  seems  doubtful, 
for  the  manor  appears  to  have  been  acquired  by  George  Waldegrave's 
widow,  Mary  Francis,  daughter  of  Sir  Richard  Corbett,  in  I557,4  six  years 
after  the  death  of  her  husband,  who  died  ist  August,  1551.  She  died  2ist 
Nov.  1561,  and  is  buried  with  her  husband  in  Hitcham  Church,  with  an 
inscription  stating  that  they  left  behind  them  5  sons — William,  Richard, 
George,  Edward,  and  Edmond, "  which  Mary  Francis  (the  widow)  caused 
this  stone  to  be  made  by  her  executor." 

The  manor  passed  on  the  death  of  Mary  Francis  Waldegrave  in  1561 
to  her  eldest  son,  William  Waldegrave,  who  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of 
Richard  Poley,  of  Moorhouse,  in  Boxted.  On  his  death  in  1581  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  George  Waldegrave. 

He  married  ist  Mary,  2nd  daughter  and  coheir  of  John  Moore,  portman, 
of  Ipswich,  and  had  but  two  children,  Amy,  who  died  an  infant,  and  Eliza- 
beth, who,  gth  Feb.  1607,  married  Arthur  Coke,  to  whom  the  manor  passed 
on  the  death  of  Sir  George  Waldegrave,  I5th  Jan.  1636-7,  in  his  68th  year. 
Arthur  Coke  had  but  four  daughters — Elizabeth,  Mary,  Winifred,  and 
Theophild.  Sir  George  Waldegrave's  2nd  wife  was  Elizabeth,  daughter  of 
Sir  Thomas  Jermy,  of  Metfield,  K.B.  She  survived  her  husband,  and  lived 
to  place  upon  his  grave  a  tombstone,  or,  as  she  styles  it,  "  small  monument," 
a  statement  that  she 

"  Styal  laments  her  losse 

And  bidds  these  lynes  declare  , .    i 

His  Piety,  His  Bounty  to  the  Poore 

The  Bench  and  County  speaks  his  Publique  care 

Employ 'd  and  tryd  for  fourty  years  and  more 

Late  faithful  mate,  now  blissfull  soul  (quoth  shee) 

Tho  weeping  for  myself,  to  joy  for  thee."5 

1  Ipswich  Journal,  2Oth  May,  1843.  <Fine,  Easter,  4  Mary  I. 

*S.P.  1603,  p.  52.  s  Martin  MSS. 

spine,  Trin.  34  Hen.  VIII. 


176  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

MANOR  OF  MANTON  OF  MANTON'S. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  in  Saxon  times, 
and  so  continued  until  the  Dissolution.  The  manor  is  mentioned  in  the 
Domesday  Survey  as  a  separate  place,  and  it  is  stated  that  here  and  in 
Kettlebaston,  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  had  4  freemen  holding  2  carucates 
of  land,  6  acres  of  meadow,  8  bordars,  and  3  serfs.  They  always  ploughed 
with  3  teams,  and  could  give  and  sell  their  land.  The  soc  and  commenda- 
tion and  all  customs  belonged  to  the  abbot.  The  value  was  6os.' 

Under  the  Domesday  entries  in  Babergh  Hundred  we  find  "  Mane- 
tuna,"  specified  in  the  lands  of  Ranulf  Peverell,  and  this  probably  is  an 
entry  which  should  have  come  under  the  adjoining  Hundred  of  Cosford. 
There  was  one  freeman  with  50  acres,  and  among  them  (that  is,  joining 
certain  freemen  in  Acton,  Waldingfield,  and  Honilega)  they  had  7  bordars. 
In  Saxon  times  and  later  there  had  been  5  plough  teams,  but  at  the  time  of  the 
Survey  4.  The  freemen  were  formerly  valued  at  £4,  but  at  the  time  of 
the  Survey  at  6os.  Of  them  all,  eleven  could  and  four  could  not  sell  their 
lands,  but  of  all  of  them  Ranulf's  predecessor  in  title  had  commendation1 
and  soc,  except  one,  which  was  in  the  soc  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds. 
Ranulf  received  them  all  as  a  land  holding.3 

On  the  Dissolution  of  the  religious  houses  the  manor  passed  to  the 
Crown, andwas  granted  in  1543 to  Edward  Elringtonand  Hunsdon  Metcalfe.4 
They  had  licence  to  alien  in  1544  to  Thomas  Poley,  and  he  in  1548  to  Ralph 
Chamberleyne,  and  he  in  1561  to  Robert  Thorpe,  and  he  in  1562  to  Edmund 
Jermyn,  and  he  in  1566  to  William  Honyng,  who  this  year  was  called  upon 
to  show  by  what  title  he  held  this  manor.5  This  William  Honyng  in  1569 
levied  a  fine  of  the  manor  against  Robert  Thorpe  and  others.6 

From  William  Honyng7  the  manor  passed  on  his  death  in  1569  to  his 
son  and  heir,  Edward  Honyng,  who  in  1576  sold  the  same  to  Edmund 
Withepole,11  of  Ipswich,  and  a  claim  for  forfeiture  was  made  upon  him  by 
the  Crown  the  following  year.'  He  was  lord  of  the  Manor  of  Christchurch, 
and  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Thomas  Hyne,  of  London.  He  died 
in  1582,  his  will  being  dated  ist  May  and  proved  26th  May  of  that  year, 
when  the  manor  passed  to  his  grandson  and  heir,  Paul  Withepole,  eldest 
son  of  Paule  Withepole,  who  had  died  in  1579  (and  was  buried  in  St.  Mar- 
garet's Church,  Ipswich,  gth  Dec.  that  year),  by  Dorothy  his  wife,  daughter 
of  Thomas,  Lord  Wentworth,  of  Nettlestead,  who  afterwards  remarried 
Sir  Martin  Frobisher.  Paul  Withepole  died  in  1585  without  issue,  his  will 
being  dated  3rd  April,  27th  Eliz.,  proved  i4th  April,  1585.  The  manor 
passed  to  his  brother,  Sir  Edmond  Withepole,  of  Ipswich,  Knt.,  High 
Sheriff  of  Suffolk  about  1601. 

He  married  Frances,  eldest  daughter  of  Sir  William  Cornwallis,10  and 
by  his  will  dated  nth  Nov.  1619,  proved  3rd  Oct.  1621,  devised  the  manor 
to  his  eldest  son  and  heir,  Sir  William  Withepole,  of  Rendlesham,  Knt., 

•Dom.  ii.  369.  'Fine,  Easter,  n  Eliz. 

'Only    ten  freemen  seem   to  have  been  7 See  Manor  of  Carlton,  in  Hoxne  Hundred. 

enumerated.  "Fine,  Mich.  18-19  El'2- 

'Dom.  ii.  416.  'Memoranda   Hulls.    19   Eliz.,    Pas.   Rec. 

4  Particulars  of  the  farm  of  the  manor  for  Rot.  18. 

grant  to  Edward  Elhngton  will  be  I0  A  copy  of  her  will  is  given  in  the  E.A.N. 

found  in  the  Public  Record  Office.  and  Q.  x.  87.    It  bears  date  June, 

D.K.R.  9  App.  ii.  p.  206.  1625,  and  was  proved  in  the  P.C.C. 

5  Memoranda   Rolls,  8   Eliz.,   Mich.    Rec.  6th  May,  1626. 

Rot.  87. 


HITCH  AM.  177 

who  married  Jane,  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  Michael  Stanhope,  of  Orford,  and 
widow  of  Henry  Radcliffe,  Lord  Fitzwater,  eldest  son  of  the  Earl  of  Sussex. 
Sir  William  Withepole  and  others  had  licence  to  alien  the  manor  to  George 
Waldegrave.  It  should  be  mentioned  that  as  early  as  1595  a  fine  had  been 
levied  of  the  manor  by  George  Waldegrave  against  Sir  Edmond  Withepole 
and  others,1  and  one  would  always  have  thought  that  under  this  George 
Waldegrave  had  acquired  the  estate.  George  Waldegrave  died  in  1637, 
seised,  when  it  went  to  his  daughter  and  heir,  Elizabeth,  married  to  Arthur 
Coke. 

A  Bill  was  introduced  into  the  House  of  Lords  in  1660  [12  Car.  II.] 
for  confirming  the  sale  of  "  Hitcham  Manor  "  by  Sir  John  Clarke  and  wife. 

LOOSE  HALL  OR  LOES  MANOR. 

Of  this  manor  Davy  supplies  no  lords,  and  little  is  known  respecting 
it.  It  appears  to  have  become  extinct  over  300  years  since.  In  1538  itwas 
the  lordship  of  Sir  Thomas  Wyatt,  who  this  year  disposed  of  it  to  Sir  Ralph 
Warren.3  In  1545  we  meet  with  a  fine  of  the  manor  levied  by  John  Harwyn 
and  others  against  Robert  Spryng  and  others,4  after  which  it  appears  to  have 
passed  to  Sir  John  Crofte,5  and  on  his  death,  I5th  January,  1557-8,  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  Edward  Crofte.6  Edward  Crofte  survived  his  father 
less  than  a  month,  and  died  i4th  Feb.  1557-8,  leaving  Thomas  Crofte,  his 
son  and  heir,  then  aged  18  years.7 

Shortly  afterwards,  the  manor  appears  to  have  gone  to  the  Spring 
family  ;  for  in  1580  we  meet  with  a  fine  of  the  manor  levied  by  Robert 
Springe  and  others  against  Nicholas  Springe  and  others.8  The  estate  known 
as  "  The  Loose  Hall  Farm  "  was  for  many  years  in  the  possession  of  John 
Long,  and  2oth  June,  1899,  was  offered  for  sale  by  his  executors.  It  con- 
sisted of  394a.  ir.  i3p.  in  the  parishes  of  Hitcham  and  Wattisham,  and 
with  this  estate  was  purported  to  be  sold  "  The  Manor  of,  or  reputed 
Manor  of  Loose  Hall,  with  its  rights,  royalties,  and  appurtenances." 


1  Fine,  Mich.  37-38  Eliz.  '  See  Manor  of  West  Stow,  in  Blackbourn 
'House  of  Lords  Journal,  xi.  215,219-222,  Hundred. 

236.  6I.P.M.,  4  and  5  Ph.  and  M.  54. 

3  Fine,  Mich.  30  Hen.  VIII.  1 1. P.M.,  4  and  5  Ph.  and  M.  21. 

4 Fine,  Hil.  37  Hen.  VIII.  "Fine,  Hil.  22  Eliz. 

Y 


178  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

KERSEY. 

MONO  the  lands  of  the  abbey  at  Chateris  was  a  holding  in 
this  place,  consisting  of  3^  carucates  of  land,  6  villeins,  18 
bordars,  i  serf,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne,  4  ploughteams 
belonging  to  the  men,  and  4  acres  of  meadow  ;  also  wood 
sufficient  for  the  support  of  60  hogs,  and  a  mill,  a  rouncy,  10 
beasts,  36  hogs,  140  sheep,  and  3  hives  of  bees  ;  also  a  church 
with  3  acres.  There  was  a  socman  with  2  acres,  a  free- 
man with  20  acres,  a  plough  team,  and  an  acre  of  meadow.  This  manor  was 
formerly  valued  at  £4,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  at  iocs.,  and  the 
freeman  at  45.  less  4^.  It  was  4  quarentenes  long  and  6  broad,  and  paid  in 
a  gelt  7K' 

The  only  other  holding  here  was  that  of  Richard,  son  of  Earl  Gislebert, 
and  consisted  of  5  acres  valued  at  iod.,  formerly  held  by  a  freeman.  The 
predecessor  oi  Richard,  son  of  Earl  Gislebert,  had  the  soc  and  com- 
mendation.'1 

MANOR  OF  KERSEY. 

This  was  in  the  time  of  Hen.  III.  the  lordship  of  Hubert  de  Roylli. 
He  gave  the  manor  to  the  King  to  secure  his  goodwill  in  a  certain  trespass 
he  had  committed  against  the  King's  peace,  who  in  1243  granted  it  to  Philip 
Basset,  of  Wycombe,  in  Bucks.  The  grant  is  still  in  existence,  and  is  dated 
Bordeaux,  2oth  April,  27  Hen.  III.1  The  manor  was  held  of  the  king  by 
the  service  of  one  pair  of  gilt  spurs,  price  6d.  yearly,  and  the  payment 
of  £10  yearly  to  the  Prioress  of  Chateris,  and  of  8d.  to  the  Prior  of 
Canterbury. 

Philip  Basset  had  agrantof  a  market  here  in  1253,*  and  died  in  1272,' 
when  Ela,  his  widow,  claimed  a  third  as  dower,  which  she  released  to  Roger 
Bigot,  Earl  of  Norfolk,  and  Aliva  hi?  wife,  who  was  the  daughter  and  heir 
of  the  said  Philip  Basset. 

Aliva,  after  Roger  Bigot's  death,  remarried  Hugh  le  Despencer.  He 
was  one  of  the  barons  to  whom,  after  the  Battle  of  Lewes,  the  custody  of 
the  captive  monarch  was  entrusted,  and  to  him  was  also  given  the  guardian- 
ship of  the  castles  of  Orford,  of  Devises  in  Wilts,  and  Bernard  Castle  in  the 
bishopric  of  Durham.  He  lost  his  life  at  the  Battle  of  Evesham,  and  his 
estates  were  forfeited,  but  his  widow,  Aliva,  for  her  father's  sake,  found 
favour  with  the  King,  and  was  allowed  to  retain  a  considerable  portion  of 
her  husband's  property,  including  this  manor,  which,  on  her  death  in  1281 
devolved,  on  the  payment  of  a  fine  of  five  hundred  marks,  upon  her  son 
Hugh  le  Despencer  the  elder,  so  called  to  distinguish  him  from  his  son,  who 
bore  the  same  designation,  both  so  well  known  in  history  as  the  favourites 
of  Edw.  II. 

Hugh  le  Despencer  paid  a  fine  of  2,000  marks  to  the  King  in  1287  for 
marrying  without  licence  Isabel,  daughter  of  William  de  Beauchamp,  Earl 
of  Warwick,  and  widow  of  Peter  Cheworth.  On  the  Patent  Rolls  in  1299 
we  find  a  commission  issued  to  inquire  touching  the  persons  who  entered 
the  manor  of  Hugh  le  Despencer  at  Kersey,  fished  in  his  stews,  and  carried 
away  fish.' 

'  Dom.  ii.  389.  >  Extent,  I.P.M.,  56  Hen.  III.  31,  or  File 

*Dom.  ii.  3976.  41  (20). 

>Cott.  xi.  33  A.  3260.  6Pat.  Rolls,  27  Edw.  I.  266,  236. 

«  Chart.  Rolls,  37  Hen.  III.  9. 


KERSEY.  179 

In  1310  we  find  on  the  Close  Rolls  an  order  not  to  intermeddle  with 
the  manor,  it  having  come  into  the  King's  hands  by  seizure  of  lands  of  Hugh 
le  Despencer  the  younger,  and  to  restore  same  to  Hugh  le  Despencer  the 
elder.1 

There  is  on  the  Close  Rolls  in  1321  an  order  to  deliver  the  manor  to 
Gilbert  de  Eboraco,  whom  the  King  appointed  to  take  into  his  hands  the 
lands  of  Hugh  le  Despencer  the  younger/ 

The  fate  of  Hugh  le  Despencer  the  elder  and  the  younger  is  well  known, 
and  on  their  execution  in  Oct.  1326  the  manor  was  forfeited  to  the  Crown. 

In  the  following  year  the  manor  was  vested  in  Edmund  of  Woodstock, 
Earl  of  Kent,  3rd  son  of  Edw.  I. .who  married  about  1327  Margaret,  daughter 
of  John  Wake,  ist  Lord  Wake,  sister  and  heir  of  Thomas,  2nd  Lord  Wake, 
of  Lidell,  widow  of  John  Corny n,  of  Badenoch,  and  was  beheaded  igth 
March,  1329-30,  when  the  manor  seems  to  have  reverted  to  the  Crown,  who 
in  1331  granted  it,  with  the  advowson,  to  Thomas  de  Weston  for  life3 
but  the  following  year  it  was  assigned  in  dower  to  Margaret,  Countess 
Dowager  of  Kent,4  and  was  subsequently  held  by  Edmund  Plantagenet, 
2nd  Earl  of  Kent,  son  and  heir  of  the  last,  who  died  unmarried  in  1333, 
aged  5  years,  when  the  manor  passed  to  hi?  brother  and  heir,  John  Planta- 
genet, 3rd  Earl  of  Kent.  He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  William 
Marquis  of  Juliers,  and  on  his  death  without  issue  27th  Dec.  1352, 5  it  vested 
in  his  sister  and  heir,  Joan,  for  her  extraordinary  beauty  called  "  the  fair 
maid  of  Kent,"  married  to  Sir  Thomas  de  Holand,  K.G.,  2nd  son  of  Robert 
de  Holand,  istLord  Holand.  He  was  summoned  to  Parliament  as  a  baron 
I5th  July,  1353,  to  I5th  Feb.  1356-7,  and  as  Earl  of  Kent  2oth  Nov.  1360. 6 
He  died  Dec.  28th  1360, 7  and  his  widow  Joan  survived  and  married8 
Edward,  the  Black  Prince,  and  was  mother  of  King  Richard  II.  She  died 
8th  July,  1385, 9  when  the  manor  went  to  her  son  and  heir,  Thomas  de 
Holand,  2nd  Earl  of  Kent,  who  distinguished  himself  greatly  at  the  Battle  of 
Castill,  and  upon  the  accession  of  his  half-brother,  King  Rich.  II.  obtained 
a  grant  of  £200  per  annum  out  of  the  Exchequer,  and  was  constituted 
general  warden  of  all  the  forests  south  of  Trent.  The  grant  was  subse- 
quently increased  to  £1,000  a  year.  He  was  afterwards  (1380-5),  made 
Marshal  of  England,  but  discharged  of  that  office  on  its  being  confirmed  on 
Thos.  Mowbray,  Earl  of  Nottingham.  He  married  in  1366  Alice  Fitz-Alan, 
eldest  daughter  of  Richard,  5th  Earl  of  Arundel,  and  dying  25th  April, 
I397,'°  the  manor  passed  to  his  widow,  Alice,  in  dower,  who  retained  it  until 
her  death  about  1416,"  when  it  went  to  their  son  and  heir,  Thomas,  3rd 
Earl  of  Kent,  who,  on  the  attainder  of  Thomas  de  Beauchamp,  Earl  of 
Warwick,  had  a  grant  in  special  tail  of  the  castle,  manor,  and  lordship  of 
Warwick,  and  other  estates,  and  was  created  Duke  of  Surrey  2gih  Sept. 
1397,  and  Marshal  of  England  1398-99. 

He  was  also  installed  a  Knight  of  the  Garter  this  same  year.  Engaging 
in  a  conspiracy  to  subvert  the  government  after  the  accession  of  the  Duke 

'Close  Rolls,  3  Edw.  II.  10.  8The  marriage  was  under  Papal  dispensa- 

4  Close  Rolls,  15  Edw.  II.  16.  tion  loth  Oct.  1361,  for  she  was  first 

3  O.  4  Edw.  III.  6.  cousin  to  the  King,   her  intenc.ed 

4R.P.  1331,  ii.  445.  husband's  father. 

5LP.M.,  26  Edw.  III.  54.  'I.P.M.,  with  advowson  of  priory, Extent, 

6 Joan  had  been  divorced  from  her  first  9  Rich.  II.  54. 

husband,  William  Montacute,  Earl  I0  Will  proved  loth  May,  1397  ;  I. P.M.,  20 

of  Salisbury.  Rich.  II.  30. 

7I.P.M.,  35  Edw.  III.  104.  "Admin,  at   Lambeth,    3oth  May,  1416; 

I.P.M.  4  Hen.  V.  51. 


i8o  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

of  Lancaster  as  Hen.  IV.,  he  was  taken  prisoner  and  beheaded,  with  the 
Earl  of  Salisbury,  by  the  populace,  at  Cirencester,  6th  Jan.  1399-1400. 

Parliament  passed  aji  act  of  attainder  by  which  his  honours  and  lands 
became  forfeited.  He  married  Joan  Stafford,  daughter  of  Hugh,  and 
Earl  of  Stafford,  but  had  no  issue.  His  brother,  Edmund  Holand,  appears 
to  have  succeeded  to  the  Earldom  of  Kent,  and  had  subsequently  a  special 
livery  of  certain  castles,  manors,  and  lands  which  had  devolved  upon  him 
by  virtue  of  an  old  entail  made  of  them  by  his  ancestors,  but  apparently 
this  manor  was  not  amongst  them.  However,  he  seems  to  have  held  this 
manor,  and  probably  died  seised,  but  without  issue,  i8th  Sept.  1408, 
when  the  Earldom  of  Kent  became  extinct,  and  this  manor  passed  to 
Edmund  Mortimer,  5th  Earl  of  March,  eldest  surviving  son  of  Roger 
Mortimer,  4th  Earl  of  March,  who  had  married  Alianore,  daughter  of  Thomas 
Holand,  2nd  Earl  of  Kent,  and  sister  of  Thomas,  Duke  of  Surrey,  and  sister 
and  coheir  of  Edmund,  4th  Earl  of  Kent  (both  brothers  having  died  without 
issue),  the  said  Roger  Mortimer  having  been  slain  in  battle  in  Ireland  in 
1398.  (He  did  not  therefore  die,  as  Page  states,  seised  of  the  manor,  in 
the  third  year  of  Hen.  VI.) 

Edmund  Mortimer,  5th  Earl  of  March,  was  but  6  years  of  age  at  the 
time  of  his  father's  decease,  and  was  committed  by  King  Hen.  IV.  to  Henry, 
Prince  of  Wales,  his  son,  out  of  whose  custody  he  was  shortly  afterwards 
stolen  by  Lady  de  Spencer,  but  being  discovered  and  recovered  he  was  more 
strictly  guarded  for  the  future. 

He  engaged  in  the  wars  of  France  in  the  time  of  Hen.  V.,  and  in  1492 
was  constituted  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland.  He  married  Anne,  daughter 
of  Edmund,  Earl  of  Stafford,  but  died  without  issue  in  1424,'  when  the 
manor  passed,  or  at  least  a  third  in  dower,  to  his  widow  Anne,  and  she 
retained  the  same  until  her  death  in  1433. 

Subject  to  the  life  interest  of  the  widow  the  manor  passed  in  moieties 
to  Joan  and  Joyce,  the  two  daughters  and  coheirs  of  Edward  Charlton, 
Lord  Powis,  and  Alianore,  his  wife  (this  Alianore  having  had  as  her  first 
husband  Roger  Mortimer,  4th  Earl  of  March),  sister  and  coheir  of  Thomas 
and  Edmund,  respectively  3rd  and  4th  Earls  of  Kent. 

Joan,  the  elder  daughter,  married  Sir  John  de  Grey  and  died  in  1426," 
seised  of  a  third  of  the  manor,  when  the  interest  passed  to  her  son,  Sir 
Henry  Grey,  Lord  Powis,  Earl  of  Tankerville,  on  whose  death  in  1449  3 
the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son  by  Antigone  his  wife,  natural  daughter  of 
Humphrey  Plantagenet,  Duke  of  Gloucester,  namely,  Richard  Grey,  Lord 
Powis  and  Earl  of  Tankerville. 

On  the  Memoranda  Rolls  in  1452  is  a  statement  as  to  the  account  of 
the  issues  of  "  Kersley  "  Manor,  which  Sir  Henry  Grey  held  at  his  death, 
the  holding  of  the  King  by  knight's  service.4  There  is  a  note  that  his  son 
Richard  was  then  under  age  and  the  King's  ward. 

This  Richard  Grey,  Earl  of  Tankerville,  adhering  to  the  house  of  York, 
was,  with  divers  others,  attainted  in  1460.  We  find  him  with  the  Earl  of 
Warwick  at  the  siege  of  Alnwick  Castle  in  1461.  He  married  Margaret, 
daughter  of  James,  Lord  Audley,  and  dying  in  1466,'  the  manor  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Grey,  who  was  summoned  to  Parliament  as  a 
baron  under  the  designation  of  "  Johanni  Grey  de  Powes,"  I5th  Nov.  1482. 

•I.P.M.,  3  Hen.  VI.  32.  «M.,  30  Hen.  VI.,  Trin.  Status  et  Visus. 

•I.P.M.,  4  Hen.  VI.  36.  Rot.  i  and  4. 

Jl.P.M.,  28  Hen.  VI.  30.  »I.P.M..  6  Edw.  IV.  35. 


KERSEY. 


181 


He  married  Lady  Anne  Herbert,  daughter  of  William,  Earl  of  Pembroke, 
and  dying  loth  Nov.  1494,  the  manor  passed  to  his  son,  John  Grey,  2nd 
Baron  Grey  of  Powis,  but  never  summoned  to  Parliament,  then  aged  13. 

In  the  inquisition  of  Sir  John  Grey,  the  father,  who  died  in  1494,  it  is 
stated  that  this  manor  was  worth  £11,  and  the  Manor  of  Leyham  (one-third 
part  of)  worth  £10,  and  held  of  Cecily,  Duchess  of  York,  as  of  the  Honor  of 
Clare,  by  fealty  and  55.  rent ;  and  that  Sir  John  being  seised  vested  the 
manors  in  trustees  in  trust  to  pay  his  debts.' 

John  Grey,  2nd  Baron  Grey  of  Powis,  married  Margaret,  daughter  of 
Edward,  Lord  Dudley,  and  dying  in  1504,  the  manor  went  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Sir  Edward  Grey,  3rd  Baron  Grey  of  Powis.  His  lordship  accom- 
panied the  Duke  of  Suffolk  in  the  expedition  into  France  in  1500,  and  was 
present  at  the  taking  of  Bray  and  other  places.  In  1536  a  fine  was  levied 
of  the  manor  by  Robert  Wyngfeld  against  the  said  Sir  Edward  Grey.2 
He  married  Lady  Anne  Brandon,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Charles,  Duke  of 
Suffolk,  but  died  in  1552  without  issue. 

The  manor  next  appears  to  have  been  vested  in  Sir  Giles  Capel,  son  of 
Sir  William  Capel,  which  Giles  died  in  1556.  In  1596  Robert  Wingfield 
appears  as  lord,  and  in  1609  the  manor  was  vested  in  Clipsey  Gaudy  and 
Mary  his  wife,  who  in  1614  obtained  licence  to  alien  it  to  Robert  Rolfe, 
from  whom  the  manor  passed  to  his  son,  Robert  Rolfe. 

In  the  43rd  of  the  Deputy-Keeper's  Reports  will  be  seen  under  the 
head  Chancery,  note  of  the  livery  of  a  third  part  of  lands,  parcel  of 
"Kersey  Manor"  to  Robert  Rolfe,  son  of  Robert  in  1631. 3  A  fine  however 
levied  the  following  year  appears  to  be  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor.4 

Later  we  find  the  manor  in  one  Hodges,  who  sold  it  to  D'Oyly. 

In  1764  Peregrine  D'Oyly  was  lord,  and  the  manor  was  offered  for 
sale  in  1778,  when  the  quit  rents  were  stated  to  amount  to  £18.  33.  nd. 
per  annum.  It  was  offered  with  a  small  farm  of  14  acres.5  Eleven  years 
later  another  attempt  was  made  to  sell  at  the  George  Inn,  Hadleigh,  4th 
May,  1789.  With  the  manor  were  offered  demesne  lands,  32  acres,  let  to  a 
tenant,  and  isa.  2r.  in  hand.  The  timber  was  valued  at  £500,  and  the 
fines  were  stated  to  be  arbitrary,  the  copyhold  lands  340  acres,  and  about 
30  tenements.6  It  does  not  appear  whether  a  sale  was  then  effected,  but 
in  1804  Abraham  Reeve  was  lord,  and  later  the  Rev.  Thos.  Reeve,  A.M. 

In  1845  the  manor  was  again  offered  for  sale,  the  fines  being  stated  to 
have  yielded  on  an  average  of  15  years  ending  1844  £59.  IDS.  per  annum 
and  the  quit  rents  being  stated  to  amount  to  upwards  of  £19. 7  The  sale 
took  place  at  the  White  Horse,  Ipswich,  5th  Aug.  1845,  and  the  purchaser 
was  James  Bentley,  of  Cheshunt,  co.  Herts,  at  the  price  of  £2,220."  The 
manor  is  now  vested  in  Mr.  Charles  James  Grimwade,  of  Hadleigh. 

MANOR  OF  SAMPSON'S  HALL. 

The  Sampsons  had  long  been  settled  at  Kersey.  As  early  as  1382  we 
meet  on  the  Patent  Rolls  with  a  pardon  to  Thomas  Sampson,  of  Kersey, 
imprisoned  in  Ipswich  Gaol  and  under  sentence  of  death  for  felony.9 

Simon  Sampson,  of  Kersey,  son  of  Robert,  married  Margaret,  daughter 
of  Sir  James  Hobart,  Knt.,  and  was  lord  of  this  manor  at  the  opening  of 


'  I.P.M.,  ii  Hen.  VII.  1168. 

» Fine,  Hil.  28  Hen.  VIII. 

3  App.  p.  183. 

'Fine,  7  Chas.  II.  pt.  i.  44. 

s  Ipswich  Journal,  2ist  Feb.,  1778. 


« Ipswich  Journal,  28th  Mar.  1789. 
7 Ipswich  Journal,  tgtli  July,  1845. 

8  Ipswich  Journal,  9th  August,  1845. 

9  Pat.  Rolls,  6  Rich.  II.  pt.  ii.  16. 


182  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

the  i6th  century.  On  his  death  he  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir, 
Thomas  Sampson,  who  died  in  1508,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Simon  or  Symond  Sampson.  He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of 
John  (Robert)  Southwell,  of  Burham  Hall,  and  dying  in  1563,  the  manor 
went  to  his  eldest  son,  Robert  Sampson,  though  his  youngest  son,  George, 
is  described  as  of  Sampson  Hall. 

Robert  Sampson  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Robert  Wingfield, 
of  Upton,  co.  Northampton,  and  dying  in  1591  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  John  Sampson,  who  married  Bridget,  daughter  of  William  Clopton, 
of  Groton.  Amongst  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster  Calendar  to  Pleadings  43  Eliz. 
15  [1601]  will  be  seen  a  suit  as  to  ingress  fine  for  this  manor  and  "  Layton  " 
against  John  Sampson,  claiming  to  hold  the  Manor  of  Sampson's  Hall,  of  the 
Manor  of  Kersey.  On  John  Sampson's  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  John  Sampson. 

The  manor  was  shortly  afterwards  acquired  by  John  Thorrowgood,  of 
Sampson  Hall,  who  died  in  1734,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John 
Thorrowgood,  on  whose  death  it  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Thorrow- 
good, High  Sheriff  for  the  County  in  1760,  and  upon  his  death  in  Jan. 
1794,  devolved  upon  his  only  child,  Katharine,  who  died  unmarried  in  1802, 
and  devised  this  manor  and  her  other  estates  to  Elizabeth  D'Oyly,  niece 
of  Sir  Thomas  Thorrowgood  and  granddaughter  of  John,  the  father  of  Sir 
Thomas  Thorrowgood,  married  to  the  Rev.  Christopher  Tennant,  perpetual 
curate  of  Higham.  Elizabeth  Tennant  died  in  1803,  and  her  husband  at 
Sampson's  Hall,  5th  Oct.  1807,  aged  67,  when  the  manor  passed  to  their  son 
and  heir,  Christopher  Tennant,  who  died  unmarried  in  1816,  when  it  devolved 
on  his  sister  and  heir,  Marianne,  married  to  the  Rev.  Thomas  Jones,  of 
Enfield,  in  Middlesex. 

The  manor  subsequently  passed  to  Dr.  T.  W.  Jones,  and  under  the 
name  of  "  The  Manor  of  Lillesley  with  Sampson's  Hall  in  Kersey,"  was 
offered  for  sale  by  the  trustees  of  his  will,  in  London,  i6th  June,  1908. 
There  were  n  copyhold  and  free  tenants,  holding  about  140  acres,  at  rents 
amounting  in  the  aggregate  to  £11.  is.  qd.  The  customary  fines  to  which  the 
lord  was  entitled  were  stated  to  be  on  death  two  years'  annual  value  of  the 
copyhold,  and  on  admission  if  the  tenant  on  the  Court  Rolls  were  living, 
one  and  a  half  year's  annual  value.  The  lands  held  of  the  manor  extended 
into  Semer,  Whatfield,  Lindsey,  Boxford,  and  Groton. 

In  1580  Robert  Nightingale  gave,  by  will,  a  tenement  in  Kersey,  for 
one  or  more  persons  to  dwell  in  ;  and  he  also  gave  a  piece  of  copyhold  land, 
the  rent  to  be  distributed  among  the  poor  yearly,  on  Good  Friday,  and  he 
charged  his  copyhold  land,  holden  of  the  Manor  of  Sampson's  Hall,  with  40$. 
a  year,  for  instructing  poor  children  in  learning.  The  cottage  has  been 
rebuilt  at  the  expense  of  the  parish,  and  is  inhabited  by  three  poor  families. 
The  copyhold  land,  which  contains  2a.  2r.  lets  at  £5.  los.  a  year,  which  is 
distributed  on  Good  Friday,  as  the  donor  directed.  The  annuity  of  405. 
is  paid  to  a  schoolmistress  for  teaching  six  poor  children  to  read.' 

A  fine  of  the  Manor  of  Kersey  (probably  this  manor)  was  in  1591 
levied  by  John  Martyn  against  Robert  Wyngfeld." 

Sampson  Hall  was  pulled  down  in  1824. 
1  Page,  Hist,  of  Suff.  p.  1006.  *  Fine,  Easter,  33  Eliz. 


KERSEY.  183 

THE  PRIORY  MANOR. 

There  seems  to  have  been  a  manor  attached  to  the  priory  of  Kersey. 
This  was  a  priory  of  Augustines,  or  Black  Canons,  founded  by  the  Cokefield 
family  as  early  as  1184,  the  "  Parvum  Monasterium  de  Kersey,"  being 
then  accounted  as  half  a  leet  to  the  Hundred  of  Cosford.  In  1190  Sir  Nigel 
de  Riffley  occurs  as  a  benefactor. 

Thomas  de  Burgh  is  said  to  have  founded  a  hospital  or  free  chapel  of 
St.  Mary  and  St.  Anthony  here  previous  to  the  year  1218,  Geoffrey  de  Burgh, 
his  brother,  archdeacon  of  Norwich,  being  witness  to  the  grants  which 
were  confirmed  by  Pope  Honorius  in  the  following  year.  This  Thomas 
married  Nesta  de  Cokefield. 

It  would  seem  that  this  hospital,  some  few  years  afterwards,  was  con- 
verted into  the  priory  of  canons  we  have  mentioned,  the  denomination  being 
"  the  Church  and  Canons  of  our  Lady  and  St.  Anthony  of  Kersey."  Nesta, 
after  the  death  of  her  husband,  Thomas  de  Burgh,  became  the  wife  of  John 
de  Beauchamp,  and  in  1240  increased  her  gifts  to  the  priory,  bestowing 
among  other  hereditaments  the  mother  church  of  Kersey.1  John  de 
Beauchamp  shortly  afterwards,  and  Nesta,  in  her  widowhood,  confirmed 
these  donations. 

Nesta  took  a  third  husband,  Matthew  de  Leyham,  whose  family  were 
seated  at  Leyham,  in  this  Hundred,  and  a  last  donation,  with  the  consent  of 
Matthew  de  Leyham,  was  made  by  Nesta  to  these  canons,  she  giving  them, 
with  her  body  to  be  buried  in  their  church,  certain  lands  and  services  in 
Lindsey  and  Kersey.  She  died  without  issue  about  1248. 

The  grant  of  Nesta  de  Cokefield  specifies  the  messuage,  late  the  hospital, 
and  30  acres  of  land  adjoining,  and  the  tithes  of  the  mills  of  Cockfield,  Semer, 
Lindsey,  and  Kersey,  to  sustain  the  lights  in  the  Church  of  St.  Anthony. 
Amongst  the  Ancient  Deeds  in  the  Exchequer  and  Treasury  of  the  Receipt 
preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office  is  a  grant  by  Nesta  de  "  Kokefeld  "  to 
the  canons  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  Anthony,  Kersey,  of  pasture  for  6  cows  in 
her  park  of  Kersey  in  frankalmoin.2  The  priory  of  Kersey  had  in  1325  a 
grant  of  free  warren  here.3  Henry  de  Grey,  Lord  Powis,  was  empowered 
in  1444  to  grant  the  manor  to  the  College  of  St.  Mary  and  Nicholas,  Cam- 
bridge/ and  in  1448  he  granted  the  manor,  with  all  its  revenues  and  lands, 
to  King's  College,  in  Cambridge,  and  the  provost  and  fellows  of  that  college 
are  now  patrons  of  this  parish  church,  and  owners  of  the  manor  and  priory 
estate. 

Amongst  the  State  Papers  in  1603  we  find  a  lease  of  the  priory  to 
William  Kellett,5  and  in  the  following  year  a  request  for  a  lease  to  Sir  John 
Ramsey.6 

Of  the  buildings  of  the  priory  there  remain  the  south  aisle  of  the  choir, 
widened  to  permit  the  building  to  be  converted  into  a  private  chapel,  con- 
tiguous fragments  of  tower,  choir,  and  transept,  the  west  wall  of  the  nave, 
and  the  kitchen,  which  has  undergone  many  alterations  in  recent  years.7 


1  See  Manor  of  Pepers,  Cockfield,  in  Babergh  4  R.P.  v.  94. 

Hundred.  'S.P.  1603,  p.  530. 

*A.  3749.  «S.P.  1604,  addenda,  p.  442. 

3  Chart.  Rolls,  19  Edw.  II.  23.  ^Suff.  Institute,  vol.  xi.  217. 


184  THE   MANORS   OF   SUFFOLK. 

MANOR  OF  KETTLEBASTON. 

|HE  only  entry  in  the  Domesday  Survey  of  land  in  this  place 
is  together  with  Manetuna  or  Manton,  a  manor  in  Hitcham, 
which  see.  In  the  I2th  century  we  find  that  Godwin  de  Kettle- 
barston  enfeoffed  Robert  Peche,  to  whom  succeeded  his  son 
and  heir,  Richard  Peche,  to  whom  Anslem,  abbot  of 
St.  Edmunds  confirmed  his  land.  Nicholas  Peche  next 
held,  and  in  1207  Hawise,  his  widow,  claimed  a  moiety  of 
the  town  of  Kettlebaston  as  dower.  Subject  to  her  interest,  the  lordship 
vested  in  Richard  Peche,  the  brother  or  son  of  Nicholas,  and  to  him  suc- 
ceeded his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Nicholas  Peche,  whose  daughter  and  heir, 
Matilda,  married  Walter  de  Rydware.  She  was  living  in  1283,  and  the 
following  year  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  the  manor  by  Ralph  de  Auge- 
mere,  chaplain,  against  Matilda  Peche.1 

She  granted  the  lordship  to  her  2nd  son,  Sir  Roger  de  Rydware,  who 
about  1312  was  succeeded  by  his  nephew,  Sir  Thos.  de  Rydware,  for  this 
year  he  had  a  grant  of  free  warren.2  He  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir 
Sir  Walter  de  Rydware,  who  was  dead  in  1358,  when  his  son  and  heir,  Sir 
Walter  de  Rydware,  held.  On  the  death  of  the  last  Sir  Walter  the  manor 
passed  to  his  daughter  and  heir,  Agnes,  married  to  William  Cotton  in  1379. 
The  manor  seems  to  have  gone  in  the  time  of  Hen.  IV.  to  Henry,  Lord 
Scrope,  of  Masham,  who  was  attainted  and  beheaded  in  1415.  Of  course 
his  estates  were  forfeited,  and  this  manor  was  granted  by  the  Crown  to  Sir 
John  Phelip  and  Alice  his  wife  the  same  year.  Sir  John  Phelip  died  without 
issue  before  the  close  of  the  year,3  and  his  widow  Alice,  daughter  and  heir 
of  Thomas  Chaucer,  and  granddaughter  of  Geoffrey  Chaucer,  the  poet, 
remarried  Sir  William  de  la  Pole,  4th  Earl  of  Suffolk,  from  which  time  to 
the  decapitation  of  Edmund  de  la  Pole,  3rd  Duke  of  Suffolk,  in  1513,  the 
manor  passed  in  the  same  course  as  that  of  Gyffords  and  Hallymote,  in 
Blackbourn  Hundred.  A  compotus  of  the  manor  in  1471-2  will  be  found 
amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.4 

The  manor  was  subsequently  granted  by  the  Crown  to  Charles  Brandon, 
Duke  of  Suffolk,  who  by  deed  in  1538  granted  it  to  the  King  in  exchange.5 
In  1545  the  manor  was  granted  to  Walter  Clerke  and  Stephen  Clerke,  his  son. 
Particulars  of  the  manor  for  this  grant  will  be  found  in  the  Record  Office,6 
and  the  grant  itself  on  the  Originalia  Rolls  tor  1545. 7  Walter  Clerke  was  a 
clothier  of  Hadleigh,  and  his  son  Stephen  seems  to  have  died  in  the  father's 
lifetime,  for  on  his,  Walter  Clerke's,  death  in  1554, 8  Edward  Clerke,  his  son, 
was  found  to  be  his  heir.  He  married  Editha,  daughter  of  Lionel  Talmash 
and  had  licence  to  alien  to  his  own  use,  and  to  the  use  of  Editha  his  wife 
and  her  heirs.  He  died  in  1590  without  issue,  when  the  manor  passed  to 
Henry  Apple  ton  (son  and  heir  of  Sir  Roger  Appleton)  and  Agnes  his  wife, 
sister  and  heir  of  Edward  Clerke,  and  they,  with  others,  had  licence  to  alien 
the  manor  in  1598  to  Francis  Moore  and  others  to  the  use  of  William 
Appleton,  the  brother  of  Henry.9  William  Appleton  had  licence  in  1623 
to  alien  to  John  Ettell  and  others. 

William  Appleton  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  William  Waldegrave, 
of  Hitcham,  and  in  1625  his  son  and  heir,  William,  was  lord,  but  the  manor 

'Feet  of  Fines,  12  Edw.  I.  17.  5S.P.  30  Hen.  VII.  p.  1182  (i8a). 

'Chart.  Rolls,  6  Edw.  II.  60.  «37  Hen.  VII.,  D.K.R.  9  App.  ii,  p.  191. 

M.P.M.,  3  Hen.  V.  42.  7O.,  37  Hen.  VII.,  Par.  Rot.  7. 

4  Add.  Ch.  16167.  See,  too,  Rolls  of  Parl.  "I.P.M.,  i  and  2  Ph.  and  M.  72. 

vi.  400.  'Fine,  Mich.  40-41  Eliz. 


KETTLEBASTON.  185 

shortly  afterwards  passed  to  Sir  Robert  Naunton,  for  he  died  seised  of  it 
in  1635,  and  from  this  time  to  the  death  of  Robert  Naunton  in  1719  the 
manor  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Letheringham,  in  Loes 
Hundred. 

On  the  last  Robert  Naunton's  death,  the  manor  passed  to  his  sister 
Theophila,  widow  of  John  Leman,'  of  Charsfield,  who  had  died  in  1688,  and 
later  vested  in  her  2nd  son  William  Leman,  of  Charsfield,  who  married 
Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Robert  Starling,  and  on  his  death  vested  in  his 
eldest  son,  William  Leman,  of  Beccles,  who  married  Sarah,  sister  of  his  kins- 
man, Robert  Leman,  of  Brampton,  High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk  in  1744. 
William  Leman  was  buried  at  Brampton,  leaving  three  daughters  only.  By 
1764  the  manor  had  passed  to  the  Beachcrofts.2 

In  1820  the  manor  was  vested  in  Matthew  Beachcroft,  who  died  in 
1823.  The  gth  July  of  the  following  year  the  manor  was  offered  for  sale 
by  public  auction  by  the  executors  of  Col.  Beachcroft.  With  the  manor 
was  included  the  Manor  of  Preston  or  Church  Hall,  and  931  acres  divided 
into  five  farms,  viz.  Preston  Hall,  Chapel  House,  Waggers,  High  House, 
and  Kettlebaston  Hall  farms,  let  at  rents  amounting  to  £877  per  annum.3 
The  sale  was  effected  in  lots  and  this  manor  with  quit  rents  of  £7.  125.  yd., 
and  Kettlebaston  Hall  Farm  of  234a.  26  p.  subject  to  fee  farm  and  quit 
rents  to  Swifts  Manor  and  Monks  Eleigh  Manor  of  £4.  6s.  2d.,  sold  for 
£9,740  to  Mr.  Turner.  Whether  the  sale  was  ever  carried  into  effect  we 
cannot  say,  or  perhaps  Mr.  Turner  bought  in  for  the  family,  but  in  1844 
and  1855  Mrs.  Beachcroft  was  stated  to  be  lady  of  the  manor,  in  1885  Thomas 
Beachcroft  lord,  and  it  is  now  vested  in  Francis  Beachcroft. 

A  Court  Roll  for  the  manor  i  Edw.  VI.  is  mentioned  in  the  Proceedings 
of  the  Society  of  Antiquaries.4  And  a  fine  appears  to  have  been  levied  of 
this  manor  with  the  Manor  of  Acton  in  1317  by  Robert  de  Bures  and  Hillaria, 
his  wife,  against  James  de  Bures  and  John  de  Bures.5 

Arms  of  CLERKE  :  Arg.  a  chevron  betw.  3  tigers'  heads  erased,  Sa.  on  a 
chief  of  the  last  3  martlets  of  the  field. 


•As  to  this  family  see  Brampton  Manor,         'See  Manor  of  Preston, in  Babergh  Hun- 
in    Blything    Hundred ;     and     for  dred. 

pedigree,  Suckling's   Hist,  of  Suff.         *  Ipswich  Journal,  igth  June,  1824. 
vol.  ii.  184.  <2nd  Ser.,  vol  i.  99;  vol.  ii.  79. 

s  Feet  of  Fines,  n  Edw.  II,  17. 


186  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

LAY  HAM. 

|N  the  time  of  the  Confessor  there  were  2  manors  in  this  place. 
One  was  that  of  Alfnod,  held  of  Harold,  and  consisted  of 
3  carucates  of  land,  4  villeins,  7  bordars,  5  serfs  (6  at  the 
time  of  the  Survey),  2  ploughteams  in  demesne  and  2 
belonging  to  the  men,  and  n  acres  of  meadow.  The  live 
stock  included  a  rouncy,  15  beasts,  15  hogs,  100  sheep, 
and  19  goats.  The  value  was  705.,  increased  to  loos,  at  the 

time  of  the  Survey,  when  the  tenant  in  chief  was  Hugh  de  Grentemesnil. 

The  manor  was  half  a  league  long,  and  half  a  league  broad,  and  paid  in  a 

gelt  4i</.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  Abbot  of  Bury." 

The  second  manor  had  for  a  Domesday  tenant  Eudo  the  steward. 
It  consisted  of  4  carucates  of  land,  15  villeins,  3  bordars,  i  serf,  2  ploughteams 
in  demesne,  6  belonging  to  the  men  (which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  were 
reduced  to  half),  12  acres  of  meadow, wood  sufficient  to  support  10  hogs,  and 
i  mill.  Also  a  church  with  40  acres,  i  acre  of  meadow,  and  i  ploughteam. 
The  live  stock  included  a  rouncy,  20  beasts,  36  hogs,  180  sheep,  and  23 
goats,  the  value  of  the  manor  being  £6.  It  was  held  in  the  time  of  the 
Confessor  by  Alufic  Campa,  and  was  8  quarentenes  long  and  6  broad, 
paying  in  a  gelt  j$d* 

MANOR  OF  LEYHAM  HALL  OR  NETHERBURY  HALL. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  Hugh  le  Despenser  in  the  time  of  King  Edw.  I. 
Amongst  the  Ancient  Deeds  in  the  Exchequer  and  Treasury  of  the  Receipts 
is  a  release  by  John  de  Merk,of  Leyham,  to  his  lord,  Sir  Hugh  le  Despenser. 
of  a  piece  of  pasture  which  he  held  from  Sir  Hugh  in  Leyham, near  Deusce- 
welle.3 

We  find  on  the  Close  Rolls  in  1321  an  order  to  deliver  the  manor  to 
Gilbert  de  Eboraco,  whom  the  King  appointed  to  take  into  his  hands  the 
lands  of  Hugh  le  Despenser  the  younger.4  The  manor  was  in  1326  absolutely 
forfeited  and  passed  to  the  Crown,  and  was  granted  the  following  year  to 
Edmund  of  Woodstock,  Earl  of  Kent,  son  of  Edw.  I.  He  had  been  con- 
stituted governor  of  Tunbridge  Castle  in  1321,  and  was  Sheriff  of  Rutland 
1322  to  1326. 

On  the  breaking  out  of  the  insurrection  under  Thomas  Plantagenet, 
Earl  of  Lancaster,  he  was  commissioned  by  the  King  to  pursue  the  rebellious 
prince,  and  to  lay  siege  to  the  Castle  of  Pontefract.  On  the  prince  being 
taken  prisoner  at  Boroughbridge,  he  was  one  of  those  who  condemned  him 
to  death,  and  occupied  a  distinguished  position  both  in  cabinet  and  field. 
He  was  sent  as  chief  ambassador  to  France  in  1324,  which  year  he  was  also 
appointed  Lieutenant  of  Aquitaine.  After  the  accession  of  his  nephew, 
King  Edward  III.,  he  was  arrested  and  sentenced  to  death  for  having  con- 
spired with  other  nobles  to  deliver  his  brother,  the  deposed  Edw.  II., out  of 
prison.  Whereupon  by  the  management  of  Queen  Isabel  and  her  paramour, 
Mortimer,  he  was  beheaded  at  Winchester,  igth  March,  1330,  after  having 
waited  all  day  on  the  scaffold  before  a  person  could  be  found  to  act  as 
executioner.  The  manor  was  granted  immediately  after  the  execution 

1  Dom.  ii.  432.  3  A.  7163. 

*  Dom.  ii.  4036.  « Close  Rolls,  15  Edw.  II.  26. 


LAYHAM. 

of  Edmund  of  Woodstock,  to  Robert  de  Ufford  for  life,1  but  the  grant  never 
seems  to  have  taken  effect,  for  in  1331  we  find  the  manor  assigned  to  his 
widow  Margaret  Countess  Dowager  of  Kent.2  From  the  Close  Rolls  in 
1337  we  find  some  further  light  thrown  on  the  subject.  There  the  manor  is 
mentioned  as  claimed  by  Queen  Isabel  as  her  right,  and  as  having  come  to 
the  King's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  Hugh  le  Despenser  the  younger, 
being  afterwards  granted  in  dower  to  Margaret,  his  wife,  after  the  Earl's 
death,  and  that  the  King  had  granted  that  £31.  los.  o^d.  at  which  it  was 
extended  yearly,  should  be  allowed  to  the  Queen.3 

Edmund  and  John  Plantagenet.  the  sons  of  the  unfortunate  Edmund 
of  Woodstock,  were  successively  Earls  of  Kent,  but  died,  the  former  in 
I333>  and  the  latter  27thDec.i352,4  without  issue,  as  did  also  their  sister, 
Margaret,  the  wife  of  Amaneus,  eldest  son  ot  Bernard,  Lord  de  la  Brette, 
leaving  Joane,  "  the  Fair  Maid  of  Kent,"  the  only  other  child  of  Edmund 
of  Woodstock,  surviving.  She  married  Thomas  de  Holand,  Earl  of  Kent, 
and  he  held  his  first  court  for  the  manor  27th  Edw.  III.,  and  the  Court  Roll 
is  still  in  existence  in  private  hands.  He  and  his  wife  Joan  levied  a  fine  of 
the  manor  against  Sir  Thomas  de  la  Sale  in  1355. 5  He  died  seised  of  the 
manor  in  right  of  his  wife,  28th  Dec.  1360,"  when  it  went  to  his  wife, surviving. 

The  manor  then  descended  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Kersey, 
in  this  Hundred,  till  the  time  of  Sir  Edward  Grey,  3rd  Baron  Grey  of 
Powis,  who  married  Lady  Anne  Brandon,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Charles, 
Duke  of  Suffolk,  but  died  in  1552  without  issue. 

A  third  of  the  manor  is  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  William, 
Duke  of  Suffolk,  in  1450,'  in  that  of  Richard,  Duke  of  York,  father  of  the 
King,8  and  in  1497  in  that  of  Cecily,  Duchess  of  York.9 

The  second  daughter  and  coheir  of  Edward  Charlton,  Lord  Powis, 
namely,  Joyce,  married  Sir  John  de  Tiptoft.  Sir  John  was  Summoned  to 
Parliament  as  a  baron  (Lord  Tiptoft)  from  7th  Jan.  1425-6  to  3rd  Dec.  1441. 

He  died  27th  Jan.  1442-3,  when  his  interest  in  the  manor,  stated  in  his 
inquisition  p.m.  to  be  one-third,  held  as  of  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster,10  went, 
on  the  death  of  his  widow,  22nd  Sept.  1446,  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  de 
Tiptoft,  2nd  Baron,  created  Earl  of  Worcester  i6th  July,  1449.  He  was 
Constable  of  the  Tower  in  1461,  and  Chancellor  of  Ireland  in  1464,  Lord 
Deputy  of  Ireland  in  1467-68.  He  had  been  educated  at  Balliol  College, 
Oxford,  and  was  a  man  of  exceptional  learning  for  his  time. 

He  travelled  extensively,  and  on  a  visit  to  Rome  is  said  to  have  delivered 
an  eloquent  address  to  Pope  Pius  II.,  which  drew  tears  from  the  Pontiff's 
eyes.  His  lordship  translated  into  English  Publius  Cornelius  and  Caius 
Flaminius,  and  wrote  several  treatises  which  are  mentioned  by  Bale. 
He  was  a  staunch  Yorkist, and  during  the  temporary  restoration  of  Hen.  VI. 
was  seised,  condemned  to  death,  and  beheaded  on  Tower  Hill,  i8th  October, 
1470,"  when  all  his  honours  and  estates  were  forfeited.  He  married 
ist  Cecily,  2nd  daughter  of  Richard  Neville,  Earl  of  Salisbury,  and  widow 
of  Henry  Beauchamp,  Duke  of  Warwick,  but  had  no  issue.  His  2nd  wife 
was  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Robert  Greyndour,  by  whom  he  had  a  son, 
John,  who  died  in  infancy.  He  espoused  3rdly,  Elizabeth,  daughter  of 


'Pat.   Rolls,   4   Edw.    III.   pt.   i.   25;  "I.P.M. 

Originalia,  4  Edw.  III.  9.  7I.P.M. 

'R.  of  Part.  ii.  445.  8I.P.M. 

'Close  Rolls,  ii  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  9.  9I.P.M. 

'I.P.M.,  26  Edw.  III.  54.  "I.P.M. 

3  Feet  oi  Fines,  29  Edw.  III.  9.  "I.P.M. 


35  Edw.  III.  104. 
28  Hen.  VI.  25. 
3  Edw.  IV.  14. 
12  Hen.  VII.  154. 
21  Hen.  VI.  45. 
9-10  Edw.  IV.  53. 


188  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Thomas  Hopton.and  widow  of  Sir  Roger  Corbet,  of  Morton  Corbet, in  Salop, 
by  whom  he  had  an  only  son,  Edward  de  Tiptoft,  who  was  restored  in 
blood  and  honours  by  King  Edw.  IV.  when  he  regained  the  Crown,  but  dying 
under  age  and  unmarried  I2th  Aug.  1485,  the  Earldom  of  Worcester  became 
extinct,  the  barony  fell  into  abeyance,  and  his  interest  in  the  manor 
passed  in  thirds  to  his  three  coheirs,  who  were  his  paternal  aunts,  Philippa 
Roos,  widow  of  Thomas,  Lord  Ros,  then  aged  62,  one  of  the  sisters  and 
heirs  of  John  Tiptoft,  ist  Earl  of  Worcester  ;  Joan  Ingoldsthorpe,  then 
aged  60,  another  sister  and  heir,  married  to  Sir  Edmund  Ingoldsthorpe  ; 
and  Edward  Dudley,  Lord  Dudley,  then  aged  26,  son  of  Sir  Edmund  (son 
and  heir  of  John,  Lord  Dudley),  and  Joyce,  his  wife,  another  sister  and  heir 
ot  the  said  Earl ;'  and  they  in  1487  acknowledged  that  they  held  ol  the 
King  in  chief  a  third  part  of  the  manor,  and  one  hundred  and  eighty  acres 
of  land  and  a  half,  four  acres  of  pasture,  &c.,  rendering  one  capon,  and  the 
third  part  of  one  capon,  and  the  third  part  of  one  pound  of  pepper,  and  by 
the  service  of  the  one-fortieth  part  of  one  knight's  fee.  The  third  of  the 
manor  was  stated  to  be  held  of  the  King  by  one-sixth  of  a  knight's  fee,  and 
to  be  worth  loos. 

Joan  Ingoldsthorpe  died  seised  of  her  ninth  share  in  the  manor  2ist 
June,  1494,  and  John  Stonor,  aged  10,  and  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Sir  Henry 
Wentworth,  late  wile  of  Thomas,  Lord  de  Scroppe,  Margaret,  wife  of  Sir 
John  Mortymer,  Lucy,  wife  of  Sir  Thomas  FitzWilliam,  and  Isabel,  wife 
of  William  Hodelston,  all  over  23,  were  found  to  be  her  cousins  and  heirs, 
namely,  John  Stonor,  as  son  of  Anne,  one  of  the  daughters  and  coheirs  of 
Isabel,  Marchioness  Montague,  daughter  and  heir  of  the  said  Joan,  and 
the  said  Elizabeth,  Margaret,  Lucy,  and  Isabel,  as  the  other  daughters  and 
heirs  of  the  said  Marchioness.2 

It  is  said  that  the  manor  subsequently  vested  in  Sir  Robert  Peyton,  and 
from  him  passed  to  his  widow  in  jointure ;  but  there  is  a  Court  Roll  still  in 
existence  of  a  court  held  for  this  manor,  in  1508  by  Thomas  "Hobartt,"  and 
stated  to  be  his  first  court  for  the  manor.3 

In  1532  Sir  Edm.  Capel,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  William,  acknowledged 
that  he  held  a  third. 

There  is  an  inquisition  p.m.  in  1524  of  Sir  Thomas  Lovell,  who  died 
25th  May  this  year,  in  which  the  Manor  of  Leyham  is  included,  and 
Ursula  Husey,  wife  of  William  Husey,  Margaret  Gurney,  wife  of  Anthony 
Gurney,  Elizabeth  Ballisby,  wife  of  John  Ballisby,  are  found  to  be  next 
heirs,  namely,  daughters  of  Sir  Robert  Lovell,  brother  of  the  said  Sir  Thomas 
Lovell.4  A  fine  of  a  third  part  of  the  manor  was  levied  in  1536  by  Robert 
Wyngfeld  against  Sir  Edward  Grey,  Lord  Powis.5 

There  is  also  a  grant  of  Leyham  Manor  for  life  to  Lady  Anne  of  Cleves, 
in  consideration  of  her  marriage  with  the  King  in  1540,  amongst  the 
State  Papers,6  and  in  the  Exchequer  Records  we  meet  with  a  fourth  part 
of  the  manor,  "  late  of  the  possessions  of  Jane,  Queen  of  England,"  the 
lessee  being  William  Austen.7 

In  1544  the  manor  was  granted  by  the  Crown  to  John  Clarke,  or  Clerke,' 
and  particulars  for  the  grant  are  still  preserved  in  the  Record  Office.9  John 

•I. P.M.,  i  Hen.  VII.  21.  «State  Papers,  1540,  p.  144  (2) 

•I.P.M..  9  Hen.  VII.  1088.  '35  Hen.  VIII.  Exch.  Records,  D.K.R. 

J  Thomas  Hobart  is  stated  to  have  died  25  App.  p.  4. 

seised  26th  March,  1560.  »O.  36  Hen.  VIII.  5  Pars.  Rot.  4. 

«I.P.M.,  16  Hen.  VIII.  35.  »  D.K.R.  9  App.  ii.  p.  191. 
s  Fine,  Hil.  28  Hen.  VIII. 


LAYHAM.  189 

Clarke  held  courts  for  the  manor  (the  rolls  of  which  are  in  existence  in 
private  hands),  as  follows  :  agth  May,  I  Edw.  VI.  ;  22nd  May,  2  Edw.  VI.  ; 
nth  June,  3  Edw.  IV.  ;  27th  May,  4  Edw.  VI. ;  I2th  Aug.  4th  Edw.  VI. ; 
29th  May,  5  Edw.  VI. ;  7  Edw.  VI. ;  i  Mary. 

John  Clarke  died  i6th  March,  1555,'  without  issue,  and  the  manor 
passed  to  his  nephew  and  heir,  Edward  Clarke,  then  aged  38  years,  and  in 
1568  a  claim  was  made  by  the  Crown  on  this  Edward  Clarke  for  forfeiture 
of  a  third  part  of  the  manor.2  An  action,  too,  will  be  seen  amongst  the 
Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  by  Robert  Wyngfeld 
against  this  Edward  Clarke  touching  a  third  part  of  the  manor.3  In  1568 
we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  a  third  of  the  manor  by  the  said  Edward 
Clarke  against  Robert  Wyngfeld.4  It  would  appear  therefore  that  the 
grant  to  John  Clarke  from  the  Crown  in  1555  was  not  of  more  than  a 
third  share  in  the  manor,  but  it  is  certain  that  the  courts  of  the  manor  from 
1561  to  1585  were  held  by  this  Edward  Clarke  in  his  own  name,  and  the 
rolls  are  still  in  existence  in  private  hands. 

The  courts  of  Edward  Clarke  were  held  as  follows :  First  court  4th 
Aug.  3  and  4  P.  &  M. ;  8th  June  (sic\  3  and  4  P.  &  M. ;  3,  4,  5,  6,  8,  9,  and  14 
Eliz. ;  8th  Oct.  14  Eliz.  (no  name  of  lord),  16, 17, 21, 22,  23, 24, 25,  26,  27,  28. 

The  manor  passed  from  Edward  Clarke  about  1588  to  his  brother-in- 
law,  Henry  Apleton,5  for  in  1591  we  find  him  lord  and  holding  courts  for  the 
manor  as  follows:  23rd  Sept.  33  Eliz. ;  gth  Nov. 33  Eliz. ;  26th  Sept.  34  Eliz. ; 
25th  Sept.  1593;  gth  Oct.  35  Eliz. ;  Oct.  3  Eliz. ;  ist  Oct.  39  Eliz.;  26th 
Sept.  40  Eliz. ;  3oth  Sept.  42  Eliz. ;  —  Oct.  43  Eliz. 

The  record  of  these  courts  of  Henry  Apleton  is  on  22  skins.  The  court 
4th  Oct.  2  Jac.  I.  [1603]  is  held  by  Henry  Apleton  and  others.  The  manor 
passed  the  following  year  to  Roger  Apleton,  who  held  his  first  court  2gth 
March,  1605,  and  also  held  courts  for  the  manor  as  follows  :  24th  April, 
4  Jac.I.;  I4th  Apl.  5  Jac.  I.;  lOthOct.  5  Jac.  I.;  nth  Apl.  1606;  25th Oct. 
1608 ;  i8th  April,  1610;  2ist  April,  1612. 

The  manor  then  passed  to  Henry  Apleton,  who  held  courts  for  the 
manoras  follows:  8th  Oct.  n  Jac.  I.;  6th  April,  1614;  igth  April,  1615; 
i2th  Nov.  1616;  igth  June,  15  Jac.  I.;  24th  Oct.  15  Jac.  I.  From  this  date 
the  rolls  are  headed  "  Henry  Apleton  Knt.  and  Bart.,"  and  are  :  3rd  June, 
i6i8;2ndDec.  i6Jac.L;  i7th  July,i8  Jac.  I.;  6th  Oct.  18  Jac.  I.;  8th Aug. 
19  Jac.  I.  [1621]. 

The  manor  must  then  have  been  sold  to  John  Hodges,  for  the  next 
court  on  the  6th  Aug.  1622,  is  held  by  him,  as  are  also  courts  28th  Aug.  1622 ; 
2oth  Nov.  1623 ;  and  28th  Sept.  1624.  He  also  held  courts  zgth  Apl.  1634 ; 
2Oth  Oct.  1636;  nth  Oct.  1638;  and  25th  Apl.  1639  (though  no  names  are 
fixed  to  the  rolls  for  the  last  two  courts.  From  John  Hodges  the  manor 
passed  to  the  D'Oyly  family,  and  it  is  possible  the  last  two  courts  referred 
to  were  held  by  a  member  of  this  family.  Courts  for  the  manor  were  held 
29th  May,  1640 ;  4th  May,  1641 ;  2Oth  Oct.  1642 ;  igth  Oct.  1643 ;  I7th  Oct. 
1644 ;  i2th  Apl.  1645 ;  8th  Oct.  16464  22nd  April,  1647 ;  2ist  Oct.  1647 ;  24th 
May,  1649  ;  4th  Oct.  1649  5  an^  iQth  Oct.  1650. 

In  1764  the  manor  was  vested  in  Peregrine  D'Oyly,  and  in  1814  Charles 
D'Oyly  was  lord.  Later  it  passed  to  A.  C.  Reeve,  and  then  to  Henry 
Offord,  of  Hadleigh. 

« I.P.M.,  3  and  4  Phil,  and  M.  92.  « Fine,  Hil.  10  Eliz. 

•Memoranda   Rolls,   10  Eliz.,   Pas.  Rec.          5See    Manor   of    Kettlebaston,  in  this 

Rot.  66.  Hundred. 

J  C.P.  ser.  ii,  B.  cxcvi.  lo. 


190  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

In  1855  the  manor  was  vested  with  that  of  Overbury  in  the  Rev. 
Richard  Daniel,  of  Combs,  and  in  1885  in  J .  Musgrove  Musgrove. 

Court  rolls  of  "  Netherbury  Hall,"  25  to  26  Hen.  VIII.,  will  be  found 
in  the  Public  Record  Office.1 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth, 
we  find  two  actions  touching  copyholds  of  this  manor,  therein  called 
"  Netherbury  Hall  Manor."  One  was  by  John  Warde  and  Alice  his  wife 
against  Ralph  Warde,  and  the  other  action  was  by  Thomas  Wynge  and  Rose 
his  wife  against  Edward  Clarke.1 

Court  rolls  of  the  Manor  of  Netherbury,  which  do  not  specify  the  name 
of  the  lord,  are  in  existence  and  in  private  hands,  as  follows  :  On  113  skins, 
2  Edw.  I.  to  i  Edw.  IV. ;  n  Edw.  III.,  12, 13, 14, 15,  16,  17,  18,  20,  21,  22, 
23,  24,  25,  26,  27,  28,  29,  30,  31,  32,  33,  34,  35,  36,  37,  38,  39,  40  (?  41), 
42,  43,  44,  45,  46,  47,  48,  and  49  Edw.  III.  2  to  22  Rich.  II.;  Hen.  V.; 
Hen.  VI.;  3,  5,  6,  8,  and  10  Edw.  IV. 

The  rolls  of  courts  held  in  the  i7th  century  were  22nd  March,  1748, 
handed  over  by  Griggly  to  Peregrine  D'Oyly,  having  been  left  in  his  hands 
by  his  father,  Peregrine  D'Oyly,  of  Chattris,  on  payment  of  £23.  45.  6d., 
certain  costs  in  an  action. 

MANOR  OF  OVERBURY  HALL. 

This  lordship  was  held  by  the  Leyham  family,  who  resided  here,  and 
had  considerable  estates  both  in  Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 

Sir  Peter  de  Leyham,  who  lived  in  King  John's  time  was  a  benefactor 
to  Langley  Abbey,  in  Norfolk,  and  paid  his  portion  in  certain  fees  towards 
the  aid  for  the  marriage  of  the  daughter  of  King  Hen.  III.  From  the 
Testa  de  Nevill  we  learn  that  a  Matthew  de  Leyham  held  a  knight's  fee 
here  of  the  Honor  of  "  Angria,"3  and  another  entry  states  three  knights' 
fees.4 

Rober  de  Leyham  succeeded  his  father  Peter,  and  was  followed  by 
Reginald,  his  (Robert's)  son  and  heir,  who  died  in  1244,  leaving  John  de 
Leyham,  his  son  and  heir,  a  minor.  This  John  was  found  to  hold  Overbury 
Hall,  in  Leyham,  of  the  Earl  Marshal,  at  one  knight's  fee,5  and  he  had  free 
warren  here,6  as  had  also  Joan  de  Ljeyham,  with  assize  of  bread  and  beer.7 
John  de  Leyham  died  seised  in  1289,"  leaving  the  manor  to  his  son  John, 
then  two  years  of  age,  who  died  in  1298,'  without  issue,  and  Sir  Richard  de 
Brampton  was  found  to  be  his  cousin  and  heir,  who  in  1305  settled  the 
same  upon  Thomas,  his  son  and  heir.  Thomas  de  Brampton  sold  the  manor 
to  Robert  de  Reydon,  of  Reydon,  who  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  in  this 
manor  in  1310. 10 

Robert  de  Reydon  in  1314  had  licence  to  settle  the  manor  on  John  de 
Reydon  and  his  wife,  Hawise,"  and  a  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  between 
Roger  de  Reydon  and  Ralph  de  Reydon  against  Robert  de  Reydon  this  year, 
in  connection  with  the  same.11  Robert  de  Reydon  died  in  1322.' i  Alicia, 

'Portfolio,  203,  98.  I0 Chart.  Rolls,  4  Edw.  II.  18.    A  Robert 

*CP.  scr.  ii.  B.   cxcv.  90;  Ib.  ser.  iii.                     de  Reydon  had  had  a  grant  of  free 

B.  clxxxv.  26.  warren    here    as    early    as    1258. 

JT.  de  N.  292.  Chart.  Rolls,  42  Hen.  III.  I. 

«/&.  286.  "  I.Q.D.,  7  Edw.  II.,  File  zoo,  6. 

JH.R.  ii.  151.  "Feet  of  Fines,  8  Edw.  II.  13. 

•H.R.  ii.  153.  'Jl.P.M.,  16   Edw.  II.  63.      See  Raydon 

*/6.  190.  Hall  Manor  and  Wherstead  Manor, 

•Extent,  I.P.M.,  18  Edw.  I.  31.  in  Samford  Hundred. 

» Extent,  I.P.M.,  27  Edw.  I.  29. 


LAYHAM.  igi 

daughter  of  Sir  John  de  Reydon,  married  ist  Sir  Andrew  de  Bures,'  and  he 
had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here  in  1335.' 

Amongst  the  Ancient  Deeds  in  the  Court  of  Chancery  preserved  in  the 
Public  Record  Office  is  a  grant  in  1336  by  Sir  Andrew  de  Bures  and  Alicia 
his  wife  to  William  le  Schepherd,  of  Leyham,  and  Sarah  his  wife,  and  the 
heirs  of  the  body  of  the  said  William,  of  a  piece  of  land  called  "  le  Grenes- 
lond,"  in  Leyham,  by  the  way  leading  from  Leyham  Church  towards  "  le 
Mochelewood."  The  deed  is  dated  at  Aketon  (Acton),  the  Sunday  after 
St.  Martin  the  Bishop,  n  Edw.  III.3 

Amongst  the  Deeds  in  1346  is  a  grant  and  demise  in  fee  farm  by  Sir 
Andrew  de  Bures  to  William  Shepherds,  Alan  Donne,  of  Shelleye,  and 
Cristina,  his  wife,  and  the  heirs  of  the  bodies  of  the  said  Alan  and  Cristina, 
of  lands,  which  the  grantor  purchased  of  Sir  John  de  la  Dale  in  Leyham. 
The  deed  is  dated  at  Aketon,  loth  March,  21  Edw.  III.4  A  third  deed  is  a 
grant  by  Emma,  relict  of  John  Prichet,  of  Hadleigh,  to  Sir  Andrew  de  Bures 
and  Alice  his  wife,  of  all  her  goods  and  chattels  in  all  the  lands  which 
they  had  of  her  gift  in  Leyham.  This  deed  is  dated  the  Monday  after 
St.  John  ante  portam  Latinam  23  Edw.  III.5 

Sir  Andrew  de  Bures  was  still  living  in  1357,  for  this  year6  he  held  a  court 
for  this  manor,  the  roll  of  which  is  still  extant  in  private  hands.  He  died 
however,  3  years  later,  in  I36o,7  and  Alicia,  his  widow,  married  2ndly  Sir 
John,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John  de  Sutton,  and  in  1362  we  find  amongst  the 
Ancient  Deeds  in  Chancery  a  grant  by  Sir  John  de  Sutton  the  younger  and 
Alice  his  wife  to  Thomas  Pertrych,  of  Hadleigh,  Juliana  his  wife,  and 
John,  their  son,  for  their  lives,  of  a  messuage,  3  crofts,  and  pasture  in 
the  town  of  Leyham,  adjoining  land  of  Sir  Edward,  Prince  of  Wales,  in  Ley- 
ham  ;8  and  in  1362  Sir  John  de  Sutton  and  Alicia  his  wife  conveyed 
Overbury  Hall  Manor  to  Sir  Richard  de  Sutton,  his  brother,  and  others. 
The  fine  by  which  the  transfer  was  effected  is  levied  by  Sir  Richard  de 
Sutton,  John  de  Cavendissh,  Roger  de  Wolferton,  Walter  Berdefeld,  parson 
of  Parva  Elyngham  Church,  and  Hugh  Skeryere,  parson  of  Reydon  Church, 
against  John,  son  of  Sir  John  de  Sutton  and  Alicia  his  wife.9 

Sir  Richard  de  Sutton  left  an  only  daughter  and  heir,  Joan,  who  married 
ist  Sir  Robert,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  Andrew  de  Bures,  of  Acton,  and  after- 
wards Sir  Richard  de  Waldegrave. 

From  the  death  of  Sir  Robert  de  Bures  in  1361  to  the  death  of  James 
Butler,  Earl  of  Ormond  and  Wiltshire,  in  1457,  without  issue,the  devolution 
of  the  manor  is  identical  with  that  of  Acton,  in  Babergh  Hundred.  This 
manor  is  specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Alice,  wife  of 
Guy  Bryan,  who  died  in  1435 ;'°  of  Humphrey,  son  and  heir  of  John,  Earl  of 
Arundell,  who  died  in  1438  ;"  of  Annie,  wife  of  James  Butler,  Earl  of 
Wiltshire,"  who  died  in  1457  ;  and  of  the  Earl  himself,  beheaded  in 
1461. '3 

In  1462  we  find  a  grant  of  this  manor  on  the  Patent  Rolls  to  Sir  John 
Howard,  afterwards  Duke  of  Suffolk,  and  the  heir  male  of  his  body, 

'See  Manor  of  Acton,  in  Babergh  Hundred,  'I.P.M.,  34  Edw.  III.  60. 

and    Gaynes    Manor,     Wickham-  '36  Edw.  III.  C.  2205. 

brook,  in  Risbridge  Hundred.  »  Feet  of  Fines,  37  Edw.  III.  21. 

'Chart.  Rolls,  9  Edw.  III.  37.  "I.P.M.,  13  Hen.  VI.  34. 

3C.  774.  "Extent,  I.P.M.,  16  Hen.  VI.  50. 

«C.  584.  "I.P.M.,  35  Hen.  VI.  16. 

s  C.  2293.  «3 1.P.M.,  I  Edw.  IV.  29. 
6  31  Edw.  III. 


If)2 


THE   MANORS   OF   SUFFOLK. 


provided  he  answers  at  the  Exchequer  for  any  surplus  above  £110  yearly,1 
and  three  years  later  an  absolute  grant  in  fee.* 

Nothing,  however,  seems  to  have  come  of  these  grants,  for  in  1466  we 
find  the  manor  granted  to  Sir  William  Bourchier,  son  and  heir  of  Henry, 
Earl  of  Essex,  Anne  his  wife,  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies.  The  grant  is 
on  the  Patent  Rolls,  and  includes  not  only  this  manor,  but  the  Manor  of 
Bures,  with  Netherhall  and  Overhall,  and  a  tenement  called  Ropers  in 
Seynt  Mary-bures,  with  knights'  fees,  "  late  of  James,  late  Earl  of  Wilts,  and 
in  the  King's  hands." 

The  grantee  is  to  hold  by  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  other 
rents  and  services  as  the  estates  were  held  by  before  i  Edw.  IV.  without 
fine  or  fee  beyond  aos.  ^d.'1 

The  manor  was  shortly  afterwards  acquired  by  Thomas  Hobart,  son  of 
William  Hobart,  of  Leyham,  and  Anne  his  wife,  daughter  of  Sir  Philip 
Tilney,  of  Shelley,  and  of  Frances  Framlingham,  of  Crow's  Hall,  Debenham. 
Thomas,  the  purchaser,  was  nephew  of  Sir  James  Hobart,  of  Hales  Hall,  in 
Norfolk,  the  Attorney-General  in  1487.  He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of 
Robert  Forthe,  of  Hadleigh,  and  died  27th  Aug.  1515,  leaving  two  daughters, 
Alicia  and  Dorothy.4 

Alicia  died  without  issue,  and  Dorothy  married  Thomas  Bendish,  of 
Toppesfield  Hall,  Hadleigh,  and  had  a  daughter,  Elizabeth.  To  this 
daughter  Elizabeth,  Thomas  Hobart  devised  the  manor. 

Elizabeth  Bendish  married  Thomas  D'Oyly,  and  died  2nd  Aug.  1553,' 
when  the  manor  passed  to  their  son  and  heir,  Henry  D'Oyly. 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  is  an 
action  touching  the  manor  between  this  Henry  D'Oyly  and  John  Grene  and 
Joan  his  wife.6  By  a  deed  dated  2oth  March,  20  Eliz.  [1577!,  which  is  still 
in  existence  and  in  private  hands,  Henry  D'Oyly  settled  the  manor,  then 
described  as  of  the  yearly  value  of  £14,  consisting  of  4  messuages,  2  mills, 
267  acres  of  pasture,  arable,  and  meadow,  to  the  use  of  himself  in  tail  male, 
remainder  to  the  use  of  Edward  D'Oyly  in  tail  male,  remainder  to 
John  D'Oyly  in  tail  male,  remainder  to  the  use  oi  Thomas  D'Oyly  the 
younger,  in  tail  male,  remainder  to  Francis  D'Oyly  in  tail  male,  remainder 
to  Charles  D'Oyly,  "  cousin"  in  tail  male,  remainder  to  the  next  heirs  of 
the  said  Henry  D'Oyly  for  ever.  On  Henry  D'Oyly's  death  without  issue 
before  1588,  the  manor  passed  to  his  brother,  Edward  D'Oyly,  and  a  fine 
was  levied  in  1589  by  John  Stanghowe  and  others  against  the  said 
Edward  D'Oyly.7  Edward  D'Oyly  married  Audrey,  2nd  daughter  and 
coheir  of  John  Stanhope,  of  Amringhall,  co.  Norfolk,  and  died  about 
1624,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  D'Oyly.  He 
married  Mary,  only  daughter  of  Sir  Andrew  Pascall,  Knt.,  of  Spring- 
field Hall,  co.  Essex,  and  died  2Oth  Aug.  1636,  when  the  manor  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  Peregrine  D'Oyly,  who  died  roth  Jan.  1667. 

Another  Peregrine  D'Oyly  was  lord  in  1725,  and  lived  at  Chattris,  in 
the  Isle  of  Ely,  co.  Cambridge.  He  was  lord  both  of  Overbury  and  Nether- 
bury  Manors,  and  for  the  main  manor  held  courts  28th  Aug.  1728  ;  ist 
Sept.  1729  ;  3ist  Dec.  1729  ;  igth  Jan.  1730  ;  gth  Nov.  1731  ;  25th  Feb. 


5 1.P.M.,  2  and  3  P.  and  M.;2. 
6C.P.  ser.  ii.  B.  Ivii. 
7  Fine,  Hil.  31  Eliz. 


1  Pat.  Rolls,  2  Edw.  IV.  pt.  i,  3. 
1  Pat.  Rolls,  5  Edw.  IV.  pt.  ii.  29. 
'Pat.  Rolls,  7  Edw.  IV.  pt.  i.  3. 
•I.P.M.,  7  Hen.  VIII.  46. 


LAYHAM.  193 

Courts  were  held  by  John  Webb  in  right  of  his  wife  Elizabeth,  2oth 
Oct.  1735,  and  5th  Oct.  1737.  In  1764  the  manor  was  vested  in  another 
Peregrine  D'Oyly,  in  1804  in  another  Peregrine  D'Oyly,  and  in  1814  in 
Charles  D'Oyly.  In  1829  it  was  vested  in  H.  C.  Reeve,  in  1855  in  the  Rev. 
Richard  Daniel,  of  Combs,  in  1885  in  J .  Musgrove  Musgrove  of  Raworth, 
Ley  ham.  Court  Rolls  of  the  Manor  of  Overbury,  which  do  not  specify 
the  name  of  the  lord,  are  in  existence  and  in  private  hands  as  follows  : 
3  Hen.  VII.  ;  4,  5,  8,  10,  n,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16,  17,  18,  19,  20,  21,  22,  and 
23  Hen.  VII.  ;  26th  Jan.  2  to  5  Edw.  VI.  (last  on  three  skins).  Over- 
bury  Hall  is  an  ancient  half-timbered  house  restored  and  modernised  in 
1871,  and  now  the  property  and  seat  of  James  Fairlie  Thomas  Dipnall,  J.P. 


AI 


194  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

LINDSEY. 

MONO  the  lands  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  were  ijcaru- 
cates  of  land,  i6bordars,  and  2  serfs.  They  always  ploughed 
with  5  teams,  and  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  could  give  or 
sell  their  land,  but  always  the  abbot  had  the  soc,  commenda- 
tion, and  all  customs.  The  value  was  formerly  aos., 
increased  to  305.  at  the  time  of  the  Survey.  "It"  was6quaren- 
tenes  long  and  5  broad,  paying  in  a  gelt  6d.  whoever  was 

the  tenant.    There  was  also  a  church  with  10  acres.     In  the  time  of  the 

Confessor  the  abbot  held  20  freemen  here.' 

A  small  holding  here  was  i  carucate  of  land,  6  bordars,  2  ploughteams, 

and  2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  205.,  belonging  to  Richard,  son  of  Earl 

Gislebert,  and  formerly  held  by  6  freemen.2 

MANOR  OF  LILLESEY  OR  LINDSEY  OR  LINDSEY  HALL. 

The  lordship  of  the  parish  seems  originally  to  have  belonged  to  the 
Cokefield  family.3  This  family  terminated  in  Nesta  de  Cokefield,  whose 
heirs  were  Earth,  de  Creke,  Ralph  de  Berners,  and  William  de  Bellomonte 
or  Beaumont  ;  and  in  1259  Bartholomew  de  Creke,  the  eldest  coheir  of 
this  lady,  levied  a  fine  of  one-third  part  of  the  manor  and  advowson. 

Ralph  Berners,  the  second  coheir  of  Nesta,  and  Ralph,  his  son,  held 
another  third  part  in  1290,  and  in  1297  it  is  stated  that  John  de  Bellomonte 
was  seised  of  two  third  parts  of  this  manor,  the  share  of  Ralph  Berner? 
having  been  added  to  his  own  by  purchase.4  This  hardly  seems  consistent 
with  the  entry  on  the  Originalia  Rolls  afterwards  cited. 

The  manor  became  vested  in  William  de  Montchensy5  on  his  marrying 
Beatrix,  daughter  of  William  de  Bello  Campo,  or  Beauchamp,  and  widow 
of  Thomas  Fitz-Oates.  From  his  death  in  1302  to  the  marriage  of  Jane, 
daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  de  Montchensy  to  Sir  Richard  Waldegrave,  the 
manor  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Edwardstone,  in  Babergh 
Hundred.  We  learn  from  the  Originalia  Rolls  that  the  King  in  1291 
committed  to  Robert  Tibitotthis  manor,  then  in  the  King's  hand,  by  reason 
of  the  trespass  of  William  de  "  Monte  Canise,"  of  Edwardstone,  to  hold  while 
in  the  hands  of  the  King,  rendering  £8.  155.  id.  per  annum.6  The  manor  is 
specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  this  William  de  Mont- 
chensy,7 and  in  that  of  William,  his  son,  who  died  about  1319. 8 

Sir  Richard  W'aldegrave  died  in  1434,°  and  from  this  time  to  the  time 
of  Sir  William  Waldegrave,  who  died  in  1613,  the  devolution  of  the  manor 
is  identical  with  that  of  Smallbridge,  in  Bures,  in  Babergh  Hundred.  The 
manor  is  specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Sir  William  Walde- 
grave, who  died  3Oth  Jan.  1527, 10  of  Sir  George  Waldegrave,  who  died 
8th  July,  1528,"  and  of  Sir  William  Wraldegrave,  who  died  7th  Nov.  1554. ia 

Sir  William  Waldegrave  seems  to  have  parted  with  the  manor  in  his 
lifetime,  for  in  1609  we  find  it  vested  in  Edward  Chaplin,  jun.,  and  in  1632 

'Dom.  ii.  369.  8O.  19  Edw.  I. ;  13  Pat.  Rolls,  19  Edw.  I. 

*Dom.  ii.  3976.  14. 

sSee  Priory  Manor,  Kersey,  Cosford.  'I.P.M.,  30  Edw.  I.  38. 

4Abbr.  of  PI.,  25  Edw.  I.  Hil.  29.  "I.P.M.,  15  Edw.  II.  36. 

>On  the  Patent  Rolls  in  1281  is  notice  of  sI.P.M.,  13  Hen.  VI.  27. 

an  action  by  Hamo  Peche  against  10I.P.M.,  19  Hen.  VIII.   44. 

this    William    de    Montchensy    of  "  I. P.M.,  20  Hen.  VIII.  18. 

Edwardstone  and  others,  touching  ™  I. P.M.,  i  and  2  P.  and  M.  92. 

a  tenement  in  Lindsey.    Pat.  Rolls, 

9  Edw.  I.  18. 


LINDSEY. 


195 


we  meet  with  notice  of  an  ousterlemain  of  the  manor  in  favour  of  Edmund 
"  Chaplayne,"  son  of  Edmund  (?  Edward).1 

In  1626  we  meet  with  afine  levied  of  the  manor  by  Edmund  "  Chaplayne 
late  of  Edward  his  lather.'" 

In  1805  it  was  vested  in  the  Rev.  John  Gee  Smyth,  somewhat  later  in 
the  Rev.  W.  T.  Spurdens,  in  1847  in  James  Cuddon,  of  Norwich,  in  1855 
in  the  Rev.  Rich.  Daniel,  of  Combs,  in  1885  in  the  Rev.  Thomas 
Jones,  and  the  manor  was  stated  to  have  been  vested  in  Richard  Henry 
Wood,  of  Belmont,  Sidmouth,  in  1906,  and  if  so  would  now  be  in  the 
trustees  of  his  will ;  but  in  view  of  the  manor  having  been  in  1885 
vested  in  the  Rev.  Thomas  Jones,  and  what  we  have  stated  in  the  account 
of  the  Manor  of  Sampson's  Hall,  in  Kersey,  the  statement  is  at  least  open 
to  question. 

MANOR  OF  BEAUMONDS  HALL  OR  BEAUMONTS. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  Godfrey  de  Bellomonte  in  the  time  of  Edw.  I., 
and  he  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here  in  1292. 3  He  does  not,  however, 
seem  to  have  held  more  than  a  third  of  the  manor.  The  manor  is  mentioned 
in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Cecilia  de  Ferrariis,  sometime  wife  of  Godfrey  de 
Bellomonte  in  1293." 

The  manor  was  given  about  1474  to  the  College  of  Denston  by  Sir  John 
Howard  and  John  Broughton  jun.,  and  there  it  remained  until  the  Dissolu- 
tion, when  it  vested  in  the  Crown.  A  manor  of  this  name  is  comprised  in 
the  inquisition  p.m.  of  John  Broughton,  who  died  24th  Jan.  1517,  leaving 
John,  his  son  and  heir.5 

In  1548  Simon  Sampson  seems  to  have  held  a  third  part,  but  this  year 
the  manor  was  granted  to  Thomas  Smith  and  John  Smith.  Thomas  pur- 
chased the  share  of  John.  Amongst  the  Proceedings  in  Chancery  is  an  action 
by  Thomas  Smith  against  Margaret  Smith  for  an  account  of  the  rents  of 
a  moiety  of  this  manor.6  Thomas  Smith  in  1564  had  licence  to  alien  to 
Thomas  Laurence,  who  in  1567  had  licence  to  alien  to  Anthony  Cage,  but 
possibly  the  last  two  licences  affected  a  moiety  only,  for  we  find  that  the 
manor  passed  to  Anthony  Cage  in  moieties,  one  under  a  fine  levied  by  him 
in  1567  against  Thomas  Laurence,  and  others,7  the  other  under  a  fine  levied 
by  him  against  Thomas  Smith  and  others  the  following  year.8  This  latter 
year  Anthony  Cage  had  a  claim  made  upon  him  by  the  Crown  for  the  for- 
feiture of  a  moiety  of  the  manor.9 

In  1591  John  Sampson  son  of  Robert,  is  said  to  have  had  livery, 
and  we  do  meet  with  a  fine  of  "  Lillesley  Manor  "  levied  in  1594  by  Thomas 
Fastolfe  against  one  John  Sampson,10  but  in  1609  we  find  the  manor  in 
William  Cage. 

In  1836-7  the  manor  was  vested  in  Timothy  Richard  Holmes,  John 
Jackson,  and  Jame?  Sparke,  solicitors, of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  by  purchase 
from  the  representatives  of  the  Hanmer  family.  In  1885  the  manor  was 
vested  in  James  Sparke,  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  alone,  and  it  now  belongs  to 
Mr.  George  Frederick  Beaumont,  of  The  Lawn,  Coggeshall,  Essex. 


1  Chancery  D.K.R.  48  App.  p.  467. 

2  2  Chas.  I.  pt.  i.  58. 

s  Chart.  Rolls,  20  Edw.  I.  33. 
*  I. P.M.,  21  Edw.  I.  49. 
5 1.P.M.,  10  Hen.  VIII.  148. 
6C.P.  iii.  21. 


7  Fine,  Mich.  9  Eliz. 

8  Fine,  Trin.  10  Eliz. 

9  Memoranda  Rolls,  10  Eliz.  Pas.  Rec.  Rot. 

45 ;  II  Eliz.  HU.  Rec.  Rot.  38. 
10  Fine,  Mich.  36-37  Eliz. 


196  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

MANOR  OF  NAUGHTON. 


place  is  not  mentioned  in  the  Domesday  Survey.  The 
author  of  "  Magna  Britannica  "  makes  this  lordship  to  have 
been  anciently  vested  in  Thomas  de  Okefield,  but  no 
doubt  this  is  a  mistake  for  Thomas  de  Cokefield,  who  cer- 
tainly held  in  1316.  It  was  for  nearly  two  hundred  years  the 
inheritance  of  the  Chamber  lay  ne  family.  Ralph  Chamber- 
layne  was  seised  of  it  in  1383,  and  from  him  it  passed  to  his 
son  and  heir,  Sir  Roger  Chamberlayne,  who  was  sheriff  in  1441,  and  from 
this  time  to  the  time  of  Sir  Ralph  Chamberlayne  in  1562  the  manor  passed 
in  the  same  course  as  that  of  Gedding,  in  Thedwestry  Hundred.  This  year 
Sir  Ralph  Chamberlain  is  said  to  have  sold  to  Edmund  Jermyn.  Davy, 
however,  states  that  —  Chamberlayne  sold  the  manor  to  —  Waller,  not 
very  lucid  information.  It  would  appear  that  Ralph  Chamberlayne, 
nephew  and  heir  of  Sir  Ralph  Chamberlayne,  had  licence  in  1561  to  alien 
to  Robert  Thorp,  and  he  in  1562  to  alien  to  Edmund  Jermyn.  However 
this  devolution  may  be,  the  manor  ultimately  vested  in  Waller,  for  he  con- 
veyed it  in  1609  to  Thomas  Kemp,  who  in  1614  conveyed  it  to  Josias  Fann- 
ther,  who  had  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  the  said  Thomas  Kemp. 

In  1762  the  manor  was  vested  in  William  Dawtrey  or  D'Autreys.  In 
1822  it  was  vested  in  Alexander  Adair,  from  which  time  the  manor  has 
devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  manor  of  Cratfield  le  Ros,  in  Blything 
Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  Captain  Sir  Frederick  Edward  Shafto  Adair, 
4th  Bart.,  of  Flixton  Hall. 

A  rental  of  parcel  of  this  manor  in  the  Exchequer  is  referred  to  in  the 
first  Report  on  the  Public  Records  in  1800,  p.  181. 


NEDGING. 

[HERE  was  no  manor  in  this  place  in  Saxon  times;  The  only 
holding  mentioned  in  the  Survey  was  that  of  the  Abbot  of 
Ely,  also  his  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor.  It  consisted  of 
3  carucates  of  land,  8  villeins,  6  bordars,  3  serfs,  3  plough- 
teams  in  demesne  and  2  belonging  to  the  men  (reduced  to 
i  at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  8  acres  of  meadow,  wood  to 
support  6  hogs,  and  i  mill.  Of  live  stock  there  were  2 
rouncies,  14  beasts,  100  sheep,  and  20  hogs,  also  a  church  with  7  acres,  and 

2  socmen  with  14  acres  and  i  ploughteam,  which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey 
had  come  down  to  2  oxen.    At  this  time  also  some  of  the  details  were  altered, 
for  though  the  bordar  tenants  had  increased  to  9,  the  villeins  were  reduced 
to  6,  and  the  serfs  had  come  down  to  i.    The  value  was  formerly  £4,  but 
at  the  time  of  the  Survey  was  double.    This  holding  was  a  league  long    and 

3  quarentenes  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt 


MANOR  OF  NEDGING. 

This  lordship,  with  the  advowson,  was  held  by  the  Abbot  of  Ely  in  the 
time  of  the  Confessor  and  the  Conqueror.  It  was  in  1210  held  of  the  Bishop 
of  Ely  by  Robert  de  Insula,  who  had  here  one  knight's  fee,"  and  in  1264  he 

'Dom.  0.385.  *I2IO-I2,  Red  Book  of  the   Exchequer, 


NEDGING.  197 

had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here.1  Robert  was  succeeded  by  another  Robert 
de  Insula  (who  in  the  Hundred  Rolls  was  stated  to  have  held  two  fees 
here  of  the  Bishop  of  Ely  and  he  of  the  King)2,  and  this  2nd  Robert 
de  Insula  was  succeeded  by  Sir  Warin  de  Insula,  who  died  in  1298, 3 
though  Davy  inserts  a  lord  between  the  last  two,  viz.,  William  de 
Ludam.  The  lordship  does  not  seem,  however,  to  have  left  the 
Insula  family,  for  we  find  that  though  the  author  of  the  "  Magna 
Britannica  "  makes  Hervey  de  Staunton  to  be  lord  in  1281  and  Davy 
mentions  him  as  lord  in  1302,  yet  in  1323  Sir  Robert  de  Insula,  who 
was  the  son  of  Sir  Warin,  presented  to  the  living,  and  in  1340  a  Robert,  son 
of  Robert  de  Insula,  and  Thomas,  his  brother,  levied  a  fine  of  the  manor 
against  Sir  Robert  de  Insula.4  The  error  of  the  author  of  the  "  Magna 
Britannica  "  and  Davy  is  explained  by  an  entry  on  the  Close  Rolls  in  1310. 
Hervey  de  Staunton  was  merely  a  lessee.  The  entry  referred  to  is  of  the 
enrolment  of  a  deed  of  Hervey  de  Staunton,  who  held  two  parts  of  the  Manor 
of  Nedging,  "  the  inheritance  of  Robert,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  Warin  de 
Insula  for  life,"  by  demise  from  Sir  Warin,  and  by  grant  of  the  said 
Robert  granting  an  annuity  of  £100  a  year  to  the  said  Robert.'  The 
grant  by  Robert  de  Insula  to  Hervey  de  Staunton  is  also  on  the  Close 
Rolls.6  There  is  besides  on  the  same  Rolls  the  enrolment  of  a  deed  by 
the  above  Robert  granting  an  extension  of  the  term  to  Hervey/  who  held 
one-third  of  the  manor  by  demise  from  Sir  Robert  Fitz  Wautier  and  Lady 
Alice  his  wife,  mother  of  the  said  Robert  de  Insula  as  of  her  dower  ;8  so 
that  Sir  Warin's  widow  had  evidently  remarried  Sir  Robert  Fitz  Wautier, 
and  in  1349  Jonn  de  Insula,  his  son,  presented  to  the  living.  The  last  John 
de  Insula  died  in  1376.  A  presentation  of  the  living  was  made  in  his  life- 
time— in  1362 — by  Sir  Robert  de  Lysle,  son  of  John. 

The  next  parties  presenting  were  :— 

1374  Simon  de  Salle. 

1399  Sir  Richard  Waldegrave  and  others. 

1403  John  Preston  and  others. 

1411  Richard  Norton  and  others. 

The  manor  seems  to  have  been  vested  in  Henry,  Lord  Scrope  of 
Masham,  who  was  attainted  and  beheaded  in  1415,  and  was  granted  by  the 
Crown  to  Sir  John  Phelip  and  Alice  his  wife,  and  the  heirs  male  of  their 
bodies.  Sir  John  Phelip  died  without  issue  this  same  year,9  and  his  widow 
Alice  remarried  William  de  la  Pole,  Marquis  of  Suffolk,  when  they  had  a 
grant  or  confirmation  of  the  manor.  He  died  in  1450, 10  and  the  manor 
continued  with  his  widow  Alice  until  her  death  in  1475  (in  fact  there  was 
an  express  grant  from  the  King  of  it  and  Kettlebaston  Manor  in  1467  to 
her),"  when  it  passed  to  her  son  and  heir,  John  de  la  Pole,  Duke  of  Suffolk, 
and  in  1492  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edmund  de  la  Pole,  Duke  of  Suffolk, 
who  was  attainted,  and  the  manor  forfeited  to  the  Crown. ia  A  grant  of  the 

'Chart.  Rolls,  48  Hen.  III.  2.  •/&.  25. 

*H.R.  ii.  151.  9 1.P.M.,  3  Hen.  V.  42. 

3  Extent  I  P.M.,  26  Edw.  I.  29.  "I.P.M.,  28  Hen.  VI.  25. 

«  Feet  of  Fines,  14  Edw.  III.  7.  »  Pat.  Rolls,  7  Edw.  IV.  pt.  iii.  6. 

'Close  Rolls,  4  Edw.  II.  26d.  "See  as  to  manor,  Rolls  of  Parl.  v.  470, 

6Ib.  25.  246. ;   vi.  4746. 

i  There  is  an  order  for  the  retention  of  the 

manor    by    Hervey    de    Staunton, 

clerk,  on  grant  of  other  land  in  1326. 

I.Q.D.  20  Edw.  II.,  File  190,  7. 


I98 


THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 


manor  was  made  in  1509  to  Edward  Nevill  to  hold  during  the  pleasure  of 
the  Sovereign.' 

The  manor  is  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Edmund  de  la  Pole, 
Earl  of  Suffolk,  in  1513,  and  is  there  said  to  have  been  held  of  the  King  by 
fealty,  and  of  the  value  of  £9  per  annum.3  In  1514  it  was  assigned  to 
Margaret  de  la  Pole,  the  widow  of  Edmund,  for  life.5 

Amongst  the  State  Papers  is  the  notice  of  a  commission  touching  this 
grant,  it  being  alleged  that  the  manor  had  not  been  forfeited  on  the  attainder 
of  the  Earl.4 

Margaret  de  la  Pole  died  two  years  later,  when  the  manor  reverted  to 
the  Crown.  It  was  granted  later  to  Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk, 
who  in  1538  exchanged  it  by  deed  with  the  Crown  for  other  property.5 
In  1554  the  manor  was  granted  to  Sir  Clement  Higham,  of  Barrow,  Chief 
Baron  of  the  Exchequer  in  the  time  of  Queen  Mary,6  in  recognition  of  his 
services  in  supporting  her  right  to  the  throne.  In  his  will,  dated  loth  Nov. 
1570,  he  refers  to  the  manor  thus  :  "  And  as  for  my  manner  of  Nedging 
that  shall  wholy  remayne  according  as  y1  was  given  vnto  me  by  the  letters 
pattente  thereof  y'  doth  and  may0  playnely  appere."  He  died  gth  May, 
1570-1,  and  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John  Heigham.  By 
the  inquisition  taken  on  the  death  of  Sir  Clement  it  was  found  that  he  died 
seised  of  the  Manor  of  Neddynge  and  lands,  &c.,  in  Chelsworth,  Bildeston, 
and  Whatfield,  holden  of  the  Crown  in  capite  by  the  4Oth  part  of  a  knight's 
fee.  The  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John  Heigham. 

In  1613  we  learn  from  the  Exchequer  Special  Commissions  that  the 
manor  was  supposed  to  be  escheat  on  account  of  defective  title.7 

On  Sir  John  Heigham's  death  2nd  May,  1626,  the  manor  vested  in  his 
son  and  heir,  Sir  Clement  Heigham,  who  died  26th  May,  1634.  A  little 
later  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  Jaspar  Despotin,  M.D.,  an  Italian  physican, 
of  Bury,  who  died  seised  in  1650,  having  devised  it  to  his  widow  and  Catherine 
Despotin,  his  daughter  and  coheir.  Despotin  had  settled  at  Bury  about 
the  year  1611,  having  been  introduced  into  practice  there  by  his  friend, 
Bishop  Bedell,  whom  he  accompanied  to  England  on  his  return  from  the 
chaplaincy  of  the  embassy  at  Venice.  He  was  probably  a  convert  made 
by  the  distinguished  prelate, for  it  is  stated  in  the  life  of  Bedell  that,  "being 
disgusted  with  the  corruptions  of  Romish  worship,  he  came  over  to  breathe 
a  freer  air."  Of  his  professional  skill,  or  rather,  "  unskilful  and  unfortunate 
advice,"  see  Autobiography  of  Sir  Symonds  D'Ewes.8 

By  his  will,  which  is  dated  i3th  Dec.  1648,  he  leaves  rings  of  gold, 
amongst  others,  to  the  surviving  feoffees  of  his  Manor  of  Nedging 
and  their  wives,  John  Brand,  of  Edwardston  and  his  wife,  and 
John  Bruninge,  of  Semer,  clerk,  and  his  wife.  He  also  gives  a  legacy  of  £5 
to  Mr.  William  "  Bedle,"  of  Rattlesden,  clerk,  who  was  the  eldest  son  of  the 
testator's  old  friend,  the  celebrated  Bishop  of  Kilmore.  As  to  the  Manor  of 
Nedging,  he  says  :  "And  whereas  the  said  John  Brand  and  John  Bruninge, 
by  virtue  of  a  feoffment  made  to  them  and  others  since  deceased,  are  lawfully 
seized  to  them  and  theire  heires  in  fee  simple,  of  and  in  all  that  the  Manor 


'Originalia,  I  Hen.  VIII.  35. 

•I.P.M.,  5  Hen.  VIII.  i. 

sS.P.  5  Hen.  VIII.  4205. 

«S.P.  5  Hen.  VIII.  4254. 

sS.P.  30  Hen.  VIII.  ii.  1182  (i8a). 


6  See  Manor  of  Barrow  in  Thingoe  Hundred. 

Originalia,  I  and  2  P.  and  M.  5 
Pars.  Rot.  83 ;  Letters  Patent  P. 
and  M. ;  M.  i  Eliz.  Pas.  Rec.  Rot. 

25- 

7  38  D.K.R.  App.  p.  94. 
»ii.  123,  143. 


NEDGING. 


199 


of.  Nedging,  and  the  advousion,  donation,  and  free  disposition  of  the  church 
and  rectory  of  Nedging  aforesaid,  and  diverse  mesuages,  lands,  tenemts, 
and  hereditaments  in  Nedginge  aforesaid  in  trust,  neuthelesse  in  confidence, 
and  to  such  intents  and  purposes  as  by  the  deed  of  feoffment  thereof  made 
are  expressed  and  declared,  or  should  at  any  time  after,  by  any  wryting 
by  me  signed  and  sealed  in  the  psence  of  foure  credible  wittnesses,  or  by 
my  last  will  and  testam'  in  writeinge  be  expressed  or  declared.  Now  I 
doe  hereby,  in  pursuance  of  my  sayd  power,  and  for  further  declaration  of 
the  said  trust,  will,  devise,  and  appoint,  and  doe  desire  the  said  John 
Brand  and  John  Bruninge,  my  sayd  feoffees,  upon  reasonable  request  on 
that  behalfe  to  be  made  soe  soone  after  my  death  as  conveniently  maybe, 
to  convey  and  assure  unto  Susan  Despotin  my  wellbeloved  wife,  and  to 
Catherine  Despotin  and  Anne  Despotin  my  onely  daughters,  and  heire 
apparent,  and  theire  heires,  all  that  the  said  manor  of  Nedging,  advousion, 
and  all  other  the  said  messuages,  lands  tenem'5  and  hereditaments  in 
Nedging  aforesaid,  with  all  and  singuler  their  appurtenances,  to  the  uses, 
intents,  and  purposes,  and  under  the  provisoes,  condixions,  and  limitacons 
in  and  by  this  my  psent  last  will  and  testament  hereafter  limited,  declared, 
devised,  or  appointed  ;  that  is  to  say,  for  and  touching  the  demesnes  of  the 
said  mannor  of  Nedginge,  and  all  other  the  sayd  mesuages,  lands,  tenem15 
and  hereditaments  in  Nedging  aforesaid,  with  thapptnce,  to  the  use  of 
my  sayd  wellbeloved  wife,  for  and  dureing  the  term  of  her  nrall  life.  And 
from  and  after_her  decease,  then  for  and  touching  all  that  the  mannor 
house,  or  mancon  house,  or  capitall  mesuage  in  Nedging  aforesayd,  now 
or  late  in  the  occupacon  of  Stephen  Chaplayn  or  his  assignes,  and  all  other 
the  mesuages,  lands,  tenem15,  and  hereditaments  in  Nedging  aforesaid, 
now  or  late  alsoe  in  the  occupacon  of  the  said  Stephen  Chaplayn  or  his 
assignes,  with  the  apptnce,  to  the  use  of  the  said  Catherine  Despotin,  my 
daughter,  and  her  heires  for  ev  ;  to  the  intent  and  purpose  neuthelesse 
that  it  shall  and  maybe  lawfull  to  and  for  the  sayd  Anne  Despotin,  my 
daughter,  and  her  heires,  to  have,  take  and  receive  out  of  the  same  one 
aiiuity  or  yearely  rent  of  thirtie  pounds  per  annu  of  lawfull  money  of 
England,  payable  jat  the  two  usuall  feasts  of  S'.  Michaell  th'archangell 
ancfjTh'annunciacon  of  the  blessed  Virgine  Mary,  by  even  and  equall 
porcons ;  the  first  payment  thereof  to  beginne  at  such  of  the  sd  feasts 
as  shall  next  and  imediately  happen  after  the  decease  of  my  said  wife, 
with  power  to  distreine  for  the  same  in  case  it  shall  happen  to  be  behind 
and  unpayd  by  the  space  of  eight  and  twentie  dayes  next  after  any  of  the 
sd  feasts  ;  with  provisoe  neuthelesse  and  condicon  in  the  sayd  conveyance 
to  be  conteyned,  that  in  case  the  said  Katherine  Despotin,  her  heires  or 
assignes,  shall  at  any  of  the  said  feasts,  or  within  one  moneth  after  any  of 
the  said  feasts,  accompting  eight  and  twentie  dayes  to  the  moneth,  pay 
or  cause  to  be  payd  to  the  sayd  Anne  Despotin,  her  heires  or  assignes,  the 
full  suine  of  five  hundred  pounds  of  lawfull  money  of  England,  at  or  in  the 
then  mancon  house  or  place  of  habitacon  of  the  said  Anne  Despotin,  that 
then  and  from  thenceforth  the  sayd  aiiuity  or  yearely  rent  of  thirty  pounds 
per  anum  shall  cease  and  be  determined.  And  for  and  concninge  that 
mesuage  or  tenem'  in  Nedging  aforesayd,  called  or  knowne  by  the  name  of 
Smythlands,  and  all  other  mesuages,  lands,  tenemts,  and  hereditaments  in 
Nedginge  aforesayd,  now  or  late  in  the  occupacon  of  Robert  Rose  or  his 
assignes,  from  and  after  the  decease  of  the  sayd  Susan  Despotin,  my  wife, 
to  the  use  of  the  sayd  Anne  Despotin  my  daughter,  and  her  heires  forev. 
And  for  and  concninge  the  royallties,  services,  quitt-rents,  courts,  and 
perquisitts  of  the  said  mannor  of  Nedginge,  and  the  advousion  of  the  church 


200  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

of  Nedginge,  to  the  use  of  the  sayd  Catherine  Despotin  my  daughter,  her 
heires,  and  assignes  forev,  as  shalbe  reasonably  devised  or  advised  and 
required  ;  and  untill  such  conveyance  and  assurance  shall  be  made  by  my 
sayd  feoffees  as  aforesayd,  I  doe  hereby  devise  limitt  and  appoint  the  said 
mannor  of  Nedginge,  and  advouson,  and  all  other  the  said  mesuages,  lands, 
tenem",  hereditam",  and  pmisses  in  Nedginge  aforesayd,  to  my  sayd 
wife  and  daughters  respectively,  for  such  estate  and  estates,  and  to  such  use 
and  uses,  and  to  the  intents  and  purposes,  and  under  the  provisoe  and 
condicon  hereby  before  limited  and  declared  ;  and  that  the  sayd  J  ohn 
Brand  and  John  Bruninge  shall  from  and  after  my  decease  stand  and  be 
seised  thereof  in  trust,  for  the  use  of  my  said  wife,  and  daughters 
respectively  for  such  estate  and  estates,  and  to  such  intents  and  purposes, 
and  under  such  provisoe  and  condicon  as  aforesayd.'" 

The  will  was  proved  22nd  July,  1650. 2 

We  lose  sight  of  the  manor  here,  but  find  the  following  persons  presented 
to  the  living  :— 

1672    John  Poley,  of  Boxstead. 

1726  and  1729    Richard  Philips. 

1763    Samuel  Bolton,  of  Codderham,  merchant. 

In  1812  Elizabeth  Colman,  wife  of  the  Rev.  John  Edge,  clerk,  was  lady 
of  the  manor. 

1822  Rev.  William  Edge.  This  last  certainly  was  lord  of  the  manor 
in  1844.  From  him  it  passed  to  the  Rev.  Charles  Fane  Edge,  and  in  1885 
was  vested  in  his  executors. 

The  manor  is  now  vested  in  the  trustees  or  devisee  of  the  late 
Richard  Henry  Wood,  of  Belmont,  Sidmouth,  Devon. 


1  Tymm's  "Wills  of  Bury."  p.  202.  "Bury  Lib.  Ashton  pars,  ii.,  p.  339. 


SEMER.  201 

MANOR  OF  SEMER. 

HERE  was  one  manor  in  this  place,  inconsistently  stated  in 
the  Survey  to  be  "  always  valued  at  IDS."  It  was  held  in 
the  time  of  the  Confessor  and  also  at  the  time  of  the  Survey 
by  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds,  and  consisted  of  3^  acres  of 
land,  ii  acres  of  meadow,  6  villeins,  13  bordars,  i  serf,  3 
ploughteams  in  demesne  and  2  belonging  to  the  men,  i 
mill,  16  beasts,  24  hogs,  and  97  sheep.  In  Saxon  times  it 
was  valued  at  £5,  and  increased  to  £6  at  the  time  of  the  Survey.  Also  a 
church  with  30  acres  of  land.  The  lordship  was  appropriated  to  the  use  of 
the  celerer  of  the  abbey. 

In  the  time  of  Rich.  I.  Sampson,  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds,  settled  the 
manor  on  Adam,  son  of  Robert  de  Cockfield,  for  life,  but  it  seems  to  have 
been  transmitted  by  Robert  to  his  daughter  and  heir,  Nesta  de  Cockfield, 
married  to  Matthew  de  Leyham.  She  died  without  issue,  leaving  her 
aunts,  one  married  to  Barth.  de  Creke,  another,  Beatrice,  married  to  Ralph 
de  Berners,  and  another,  Alice,  married  to  William  de  Bellomonte  or 
Beaumont,  her  heirs. 

In  1285  Godfrey  de  Bellomonte,  John  de  Crek,  and  Ralph  Berners, 
representing  the  three  aunts  of  Nesta  de  Cockfield,  brought  a  writ  of  right 
against  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  for  this  and  other  manors,  on  which  a 
duel  was  fought  and  the  abbot's  champion  worsted. 

In  1290  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  held  2  parts,  a  fine  being  levied 
this  year  between  Brother  John,  abbot  of  the  church  of  St.  Edmunds, 
and  Ralph  de  Berners.1  On  the  Patent  Rolls  for  1290  will  be  found  the 
licence  for  the  abbey  of  St.  Edmunds  to  retain  in  mortmain  2  parts  of  both 
this  manor  and  the  Manor  of  Groton,  which  two  parts  are  identified  thus: 
"  which  Ralph  de  Berners  and  John  de  Creyk  deraigned  against  the  said 
abbey  by  wager  of  battle,  and  afterwards  released  in  perpetuity."' 

Godfrey  de  Bellomonte3  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here  in  1292,*  and 
died  seised  of  the  remaining  third  of  the  manor  without  issue  in  1293, 
when  Cecilia  de  Ferrariis,  his  widow,  is  returned  as  entitled  to  a  moiety— 
not  necessarily  a  half,  as  some  assert.5 

The  abbey  ultimately  obtained  the  remaining  third,  which  on  Godfrey 
de  Bellomonte's  death  without  issue  had,  subject  to  the  interest  of  his 
widow,  passed  to  his  brother  and  heir,  Sir  John  de  Bellomonte.  The 
evidence  is  found  on  the  Patent  Rolls  for  1297,  where  there  is  a  licence  for 
the  abbey  to  retain  in  mortmain  a  third  part  of  both  this  and  Groton 
Manors,  which  Godfrey  de  Bello  Monte  late  deraigned  by  wager  of  duel 
against  the  Abbot  of  Bury,  and  which  John  de  Bello  Monte,  brother  and 
heir  of  the  said  Godfrey,  afterwards  granted  to  the  abbey  and  their  suc- 
cessors by  charter.6 

Alice,  the  widow  of  Sir  John,  however,  sued  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds 
for  a  moiety  of  a  third  of  this  manor  as  dower. 

In  1329  the  manor  or  a  part  seems  to  have  been  vested  in  Henry  de 
Percy,  styled  "  King's  kinsman,"  for  on  the  Patent  Rolls  for  this  year  we 
find  a  licence  for  him  to  grant  in  frankalmoin  a  messuage  and  land  in 
Semer,  said  to  be  parcel  of  the  Manor  of  Semer,  held  of  the  King  in  chief 

'  Feet  of  Fines,  18  Edw.  I.  n.  "Chart.  Rolls,  20  Edw.  I.  33. 

2 Pat.  Rolls,  19  Edw.  I.  22.  'Extent,  I.P.M.,  21  Edw.  1/49. 

3See  Bowfield  Manor,  Trimley  St.  Mary,         6 Pat.  Rolls,  25  Edw.  I.  pt.  i.  19. 
Colneis  Hundred. 

B  I 


202  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

by  service  of  a  thirteenth  of  a  knight's  fee,  to  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  in 
the  church  of  St.  Mary  for  the  souls  of  Eleanor,  his  mother,  and  his 
ancestors.1 

The  manor  finally  rested  with  the  abbey,  and  it  retained  the  same 
until  the  dissolution  of  the  religious  houses,  when  the  manor  passed  to 
the  Crown,  and  was  in  1542  granted  to  Sir  Clement  Heigham,  of  Barrow,2 
Chief  Baron  of  the  Exchequer  in  Queen  Mary's  reign.  John  Morines,  who 
was  in  the  service  of  John  de  la  Pole,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  was  resident  at 
Semer  Hall  in  the  time  of  Hen.  VIII.,  and  his  daughter  married  Sir  Clement 
Heigham ;  possibly  this  inclined  Sir  Clement  to  look  favourably  on  Semer 
Manor. 

Particulars  of  the  manor  for  the  grant  to  Sir  Clement  Heigham  will  be 
found  in  the  Public  Record  Office.3  By  his  will,  dated  loth  Nov.  1570,  he 
gives  this  manor  to  his  eldest  son,  John,  in  the  following  terms  :  "  Item,  I 

five  and  bequeathe  vnto  John  Heigham,  my  eldest  sonne,  my  manner  of 
eud  (Semer)  with  thadvowson  of  the  Churche  there,  with  all  and  singuler 
thappent'anc'  whatsoever  To  have  and  to  hold  unto  the  saide  John  Heigham, 
and  to  the  heires  males  of  his  bodie  lawfully  begotten,  and  for  defalte  of 
soche  yssue  male  of  his  bodie  lawfully  begotten,  I  will  the  saide  manor  of 
Seude  with  all  and  singuler  thaapp'teunce  holy  remayne  vnto  Thomas 
Heigham,  my  seconde  sonne,  and  to  the  heires  males  of  his  bodie  lawfully 
begotten,  and  for  defalte  of  soche  yssue  male  of  his  bodie  lawfully 
begotten  then  I  will  the  saide  manor  of  Seude  with  all  and  singuler  thapp'- 
tenance  holy  remayne  vnto  William  Heigham  my  youngest  sonne  and  to  the 
heires  males  of  his  bodie  lawfully  begotten,  and  for  defalte  of  soche  yssue 
male  of  the  bodie  of  the  saide  William  Heigham,  lawfully  begotten  I  will 
the  saide  manor  of  Seud  holy  remayne  vnto  the  heires  males  of  me  the  said 
Clement  Heigham  lawfully  begotten  and  for  defalte  of  soche  yssue  then  I 
will  the  saide  manor  of  Seud  and  all  other  thappteunces  holy  remayne  unto 
the  right  heires  of  me  the  saide  Clement  Heigh' m  for  eu'."  The  will  was 
proved  3Oth  June,  1571. 

Sir  Clement  Heigham  died  gth  March,  1570-1,  and  the  manor  passed  to 
his  son,  Sir  John  Heigham,  who,  with  others,  had  licence  to  alienate  it  to 
John  Brond^  or  Brand,  senior,  and  Benjamin  Brand,  his  son. 

From  the  time  of  John  Brand  to  the  time  of  Jacob  Brand,  who 
succeeded  his  father  in  the  lordship  in  1705,  the  manor  passed  in  the  same 
course  as  the  Manor  of  Polstead,  in  Babergh  Hundred.  On  Jacob  Brand's 
death  in  1756  this  manor  appears  to  have  passed  not  to  his  son  and  heir, 
William  Beale  Brand,  of  Bildeston,  but  to  his  only  other  surviving  child, 
Jane,  married  to  the  Rev.  Thomas  Cook,  rector  of  Semer,  for  he  appears  as 
lord  in  1764. 

Thomas  Cook  died  in  1804,  when  the  manor  went  to  his  widow,  Jane, 
and  on  her  death  in  1804  to  their  son  and  heir,  the  Rev.  Thomas  Cook, 
rector  of  Bildeston,  and  on  his  death  to  his  only  son  and  heir,  Thomas 
William  Cooke,  of  Polstead,  who  died  in  1825  without  issue.  The  manor 
passed  to  his  widow,  Mary  Anne,  who  remarried  Charles  Tyrell,  of  Haughley. 
On  her  death  in  1849  the  manor  passed  to  her  first  husband's  uncle  and  heir 
the  Rev.  Charles  Cooke,  rector  of  Semer.  He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter 
of  James  Young,  of  Clare,  and  on  his  death  in  1838  the  manor  passed  to  his 
son,  the  Rev.  James  Young  Cooke,  rector  of  Semer,  who  was  lord  in  1855. 

'Pat.  Rolls,  3  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  22.  '35  Hen.  VIII.  D.K.R.  9  App.  ii.  p.  221. 

'See  Manor  of  Barrow  Hall,  in  Thinpoe 
Hundred. 


SEMER.  203 

He  married  ist  Eleanor  Mary,  eldest  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Fairfax 
Franklin,  rector  of  Attleboro',  who  died  without  issue  in  1830,  and  2ndly 
Frances  Judith,  2nd  daughter  of  the  Rev.  John  Briggs,  rector  of  Greeting. 
James  Young  Cooke  died  in  1875,  and  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  by  his 
2nd  marriage,  the  Rev.  Charles  Russell  Cooke.  He  married  Alice,  daughter 
of  Richard  Newman,  of  Hadleigh,  solicitor,  and  died  without  issue  in  1892, 
aged  54,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  trustees,  and  was  in  1896  acquired 
by  the  Rev.  Francis  J.  Eld,  rector  of  Polstead,  in  whom  the  same  is  now 
vested. 

The  Court  Rolls  from  1385  to  1399,  and  from  1486  to  the  present  time, 
are  fortunately  extant,  and  in  the  possession  of  the  owner  of  the  lordship. 


204  THE    MANORS   OF   SUFFOLK. 

THORPE  MORIEUX. 

|WO  manors  were  held  here  by  Roger  de  Poictou.  The  first 
consisted  of  4  carucates  of  land,  7  villeins,  i  bordar,  2  serfs, 
3  ploughteams,  i  ploughteam  belonging  to  the  men,  7 
acres  of  meadow,  2  horses,  7  beasts,  60  hogs,  and  140 
sheep,  valued  at  £6.  It  was  formerly  held  by  a  freeman. 
The  appurtenances  of  the  manor  had  altered  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey.  The  villeins  were  reduced  to  3,  and  the 
ploughteams  to  2,  the  ploughteam  belonging  to  the  men  had  become  2 
oxen,  the  horses  had  disappeared,  the  beasts  and  hogs  were  reduced  to 
7  and  9  respectively,  and  the  value  had  decreased  to  £4.  To  the  manor 
Norman,  son  of  Tancred,  added  7  freemen,  with  25  acres  (of  which  the  Abbot 
of  Bury  had  the  soc  and  commendation),  i  ploughteam  (which  had  dis- 
appeared at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  valued  at  35.  Also  a  church  with 
50  acres  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  i  ploughteam  (which  was  reduced  to  2  oxen 
at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  and  2  villeins,  valued  at  6s.  The  place  was  a 
league  long  and  8  quarentenes  broad  and  paid  in  a  gelt  ^d. 

The  second  manor  consisted  of  ij  carucates  of  land,  6  villeins,  2  bordars, 
2  serfs,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne,  and  I  belonging  to  the  men,  5  acres 
of  meadow,  wood  sufficient  for  the  support  of  4  hogs,  2  beast? ,  26  hogs,  30 
sheep  and  13  goats,  valued  at  6os. 

At  the  time  of  the  Survey  the  villeins  had  become  7,  the  serfs  were 
reduced  to  i,  the  ploughteams  in  demesne  were  reduced  to  i,  and 
those  belonging  to  the  men  to  only  half  a  team,  the  hogs  were  14,  and  the 
sheep  13,  the  value  being  but  405.  This  manor  had  formerly  been  held  by 
a  freeman.  Wisgar,  Richard's  predecessor,  had  the  commendation  and 
soc.  The  six  forfeitures  belonged  to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds.' 

The  abbot  also  held  20  acres  and  I  freeman,  valued  at  35.  4^.  He 
also  had  commendation  and  soc.2 

MANOR  OF  THORPE  MORIEUX. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  Roger  de  Poictou  in  the  time  of  William  the 
Conqueror.  In  1200  we  find  that  Roger  de  Muryeus  held  a  fee  here,  which 
fee  73  years  later  was  held  by  Hugh  de  Morieus.  It  seems  from  the  Hundred 
Rolls  that  he  held  this  fee  of  Thomas  de  Ardern,  and  of  the  heirs  of  Nicholas 
Kiriel,  and  the  said  heirs  of  the  King  as  of  the  Honor  of  Lancaster.3 

Hugh  de  Morieus  also  held  another  fee  in  Thorpe  Morieux  of  William 
de  Hastings,  who  held  of  Nicholas  de  Hastings,  who  held  of  the  King,  also 
of  the  Honor  of  Lancaster.4  In  1327  both  these  2  fees  are  mentioned  in  the 
inquisition  p.m.  of  Thos.  Earl  of  Lancaster,  as  held  by  Thomas  "Merious.": 

Hugh  de  Morieus  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  in  1287,  and  about  1313 
he  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  John  de  Morieux,  who  died  without 
issue,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  brother,  Sir  Thomas  Morieux,  who  was 
High  Sheriff  for  Suffolk  in  1355.  He  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir, 
Thomas  Morieux,  who  was  Constable  of  the  Forces,  &c.  He  married 
Blanch,  natural  daughter  of  John  of  Gaunt,  by  Catherine  Turneford, and 
died  without  issue  before  1388,  when  the  lordship  passed  to  his  sister  and 
heir,  Mary,  married  to  Richard  Walkfare.  Amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in 
the  British  Museum  is  a  lease  dated  2nd  Mar.  n  Rich.  II.  [1388],  from  Richard 

1  Dom.  ii.  3486.  4Ib. 

'Dom.  ii.  369,  3696.  5I.P.M.,  i  Edw.  III.  88. 

JH.R.  ii.  151. 


THORPE   MORIEUX.  205 

Waldegrave,  Walter  atte  Lee,  and  Henry  Grene,  to  Robert  Hethe,  Thomas 
Hethe,  and  Abel  Bernan  of  this  manor,  and  that  of  Felsham,  "  all  lands  and 
tenements  late  belonging  to  Sir  Thomas  Morieux  in  Suffolk,  a  hostel  in  Bury, 
and  the  advowson  of  Thorp  and  Felsham"  for  6  years.1  Sir  Richard's 
daughter  and  coheir  Alianora  or  Eleanor  married  Sir  John  L'Estrange,  of 
Hunstanton,  about  1384. 

Sir  John  L'Estrange  was  M.P.  for  Norfolk  in  1388  and  1389,  and  died 
seised  in  1418,  and  his  widow  in  1420,  when  the  manor  passed  to  their 
son  and  heir,  John  L'Estrange,  who  married  Alice,  daughter  and  heir  of 
Nicholas  Beaumont,  of  Pakenham,  and  his  wife  Eleanor,  daughter  and  heir 
of  John  Pyke  by  his  wife,  the  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Rushbrooke. 
John  L'Estrange  died  in  1436,  for  his  will  was  proved  this  year. 

By  an  inquisition  taken  the  same  year  this  John  L'Estrange  was 
found  to  have  died  seised  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Thorpe  Moreiux, 
with  the  Manors  of  Brook  Hall  and  Maydenhall,  in  Felsham.2  John 
L'Estrange  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Roger  L'Estrange,  of  Hun- 
stanton and  Pakenham,  who  married  Joane  Beke.  On  his  death  he  was 
succeeded  by  his  second  son  (John  L'Estrange.  his  eldest  son  having  died 
without  issue  about  I4&7),3  Sir  Henry  L'Estrange.  He  married  Katherine, 
daughter  of  Roger  Drury,  of  Hawstead,  and  his  will  is  dated  2Qth  Nov.  1483. 
By  it  he  desires  to  be  buried  in  the  chancel  of  the  Church  of  Hunstanton  in 
Norfolk,  north  wall,  and  appoints  Katherine  his  wife,  and  Roger  Drury,  of 
Hawstead,  his  full  executors. 

He  directs  masses  to  be  celebrated  for  the  souls  of  Sir  Hugh  and  Sir 
Thomas  Morieux,  knights.  Sir  Henry  L'Estrange  died  seised  of  this  manor 
and  the  Manors  of  Pakenham  and  Stowlangtoft,  25th  Nov.  1485,  and  was 
buried,  according  to  his  desire,  in  the  chancel  of  the  Church  of  Hunstanton. 
By  the  inquisition  taken  on  his  death  he  was  found  to  have  died  seised  of 
the  Manor  of  Thorpe,  with  lands  called  "  Virdones  "  and  Astone's  in  Thorpe 
Felsham,  andHecham,and2os.  rent, and  that  Roger"  Strange,"  agediy,  was 
his  son  and  heir." 

Katherine,  Sir  Henry's  widow,  remarried  Sir  Robert  Ratcliffe,  of  Attle- 
burgh,  in  Norfolk,  and  died  in  1496.  Sir  Roger  L'Estrange,  the  eldest  son 
of  Sir  Henry,  was  esquire  of  the  body  to  King  Hen.  VII.,  was  Sheriff  of 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk  in  1486,  and  created  a  Knight  of  the  Bath  at  the 
marriage  of  Prince  Arthur,  iyth  Nov.  1501. 

Sir  Roger  L'Estrange  married  Anna,  daughter  of  Sir  Henry  Heydon, 
Knight,  High  Sheriff  1495,  and  died  23rd  Oct.  1505.  The  inquisition  found 
that  John  was  his  son  and  heir,  and  then  aged  4  years.5 

John  L'Estrange  died  25th  May,  1514,  an  infant,  leaving  his  first  cousin, 
Sir  Thomas,  son  of  Sir  Robert  L'Estrange,  his  uncle,  his  next  heir.6  Sir 
Robert  L'Estrange,  the  father  of  Thomas,  had  married  Anna,  daughter 
and  coheir  of  Thomas  L'Estrange,  of  Walton  D'Eivile,  in  Warwickshire, 
and  had  died  in  1511. 

Sir  Thomas  L'Estrange,  who  was  High  Sheriff  of  Norfolk  1532,  married 
Anne,  daughter  of  Nicholas,  Lord  Vaulx,  and  his  will  is  dated  1544.  He 
died  i6th  Jan.  1544-5, when  the  manor  went  to  his  son  and  heir,Sir  Nicholas 
L'Estrange,  who  married  ist  Eleanor,  daughter  of  Sir  William  Fitzwilliam, 
of  Milton,  and  2ndly  Katharine,  daughter  of  John  Hide.  This  manor, 
and  the  manor  of  Felsham,  had  been  settled  on  Sir  Thomas  L'Estrange  and 

'Add.  Ch.  18671.  «I.P.M.,  i  Hen.  VII.  52. 

"I.P.M.,  15  Hen.  VI.  52.  5 1.P.M.,  21  Hen.  VII.  107. 

3I.P.M.,  7  Edw.  IV.  34.  6I.P.M.,  6  Hen.  VIII.  125. 


206 


THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 


his  heirs  by  the  executors  of  his  uncle,  Sir  Roger,  in  performance  of  his  last 
will.  Sir  Nicholas  L'Estrange  was  knighted  in  Ireland  the  year  of  his 
father's  decease  ;  was  Sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  in  1547,  and  Knight  of 
the  Shire  for  the  former  county  in  1547-1552.  In  1550  this  Sir  Nicholas  L' 
Estrange  sold  the  manor  to  William  Rysby  or  Risbie,'  who  died  seised  23rd 
Sept.  1552,'  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Risbie. 

He  married  Margery,  daughter  of  Edward  Rosse,  of  Nayland,  and 
died  3rd  May,1 1557,  being  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  William  Risbie. 
This  William  "  Rysbye  "  held  a  court  for  the  manor  ist  Sept.  17  Elizabeth 
[1575],  and  the  roll  of  the  same  is  in  private  hands.  He  married  Katharine, 
daughter  of  George  Smith,  coheir  to  her  mother,  a  daughter  of  Castleton, 
and  died  in  1596,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  William 
Risbie,  who  had  livery  of  the  same  this  year.  He  married  Bridget.daughter 
of  Sir  John  Higham,  of  Barrow,  being  married  at  Barrow  2ist  March,  1592. 
He  died  7th  June,  1625,*  when  he  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  John 
Risby,  who  married  at  Kettlebaston,  2nd  Oct,  1638,  Margaret,  daughter  of 
Sir  Thomas  Jenny,  of  Brightwell,  and  on  his  death  the  manor  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Risby.  He  married  Elizabeth,  only 
daughter  of  Francis  Cornwallis,5  and  held  a  court  for  the  manor  25th 
AprS,  14  Car.  II.  [1662],  the  roll  of  which  court  is  in  private  hands. 

On  John  Risby's  death  ist  May,  1687,  in  his  4gth  year, he  was  succeeded 
by  his  son  and  heir,  John  Risby,  who  died  2ist  Jan.  1727,  at  the  age  of  64, 
and  was  succeeded  by  Catherine  Risby,  spinster,  who  died  in  1747,  also  at  the 
age  of  64  years.  In  1764  John  Risby  was  lord. 

The  manor  subsequently  went  to  James  Goodeve  Sparrow,  descended 
from  the  Risbys.  He  married  ist,  1799,  Anne,  youngest  daughter  and 
coheir  of  James  Crowe,  of  Lakenham,  Norwich,  and  2ndly,  i8th  Dec.  1817, 
Dorothy,  daughter  of  Rev.  Basil  Bury  Beridge,  of  Algarkirk,  co.  Lincoln, 
and  died  3rd  Oct.  1838,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry 
Weare  Sparrow,  who  assumed  the  name  of  Beridge  by  royal  licence  3ist 
May,  1882,  on  inheriting  Algarkirk  from  his  uncle,  and  dying  without  issue 
in  1895  the  manor  passed  to  his  trustees  and  then  to  his  nephew,  Basil 
James  Harold  Sparrow,  son  of  Basil  Sparrow  (by  Julia,  daughter  of  James 
Scratton,  of  Prittlewell  Priory),  who  had  died  2ist  Sept.  1880.  Basil  James 
Harold,  M.A.,  of  Gosfield  Place,  Halstead,  Essex,  assumed  by  royal  licence 
in  1895  the  name  and  arms  of  Beridge  in  lieu  of  Sparrow.  He  married 
in  1802  Margaret  Louisa,  daughter  of  Henry  Capel  Elliot. 

Arms  of  MORIEUX  :  Gu.,  a  bend  Arg.  billetee  Sa.  Of  L'ESTRANGE  : 
Gu.,  two  lions  passant  Arg.  Of  RISBY  :  Gu.  on  a  bend  Arg.,  3  cross- 
crosslets  Sa.6  Of  BERIDGE  :  Arg.,  a  saltier  nebuly  between  two  bears' 
heads  erased  in  pale,  and  as  many  escallops  in  fesse  Sable» 

MANOR  OF  GORGET'S  OR  GORGES, 

This  manor  seems  to  have  gone  with  the  main  manor,  so  far  as  we  can 
gather,  until  1609,  when  the  site  of  the  manor  was  held  by  John  Brond, 
after  which  we  do  not  find  any  information  touching  it. 


« Fine,  Easter,  4  Edw.  VI. 
« I.P.M.,  6  Edw.  VI.  65. 
J  I.P.M.,  3  and  4  P.  and  M.  137. 
'I.P.M.,  i  Car.  I.  i,  102. 


s  She  died  I3th  Jan.  1705. 
6  Davy,  in  his   pedigree  of  the  family  of 
Risby  assigned  it  a  different  coat. 


THORPE   MORIEUX.  207 

Mention  is  made  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  John  L'Straunge  and 
Alice  his  wife,  in  1437,  of  the  tenement  called  "  Gorges  in  Thorpe  Morieux,"1 
and  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  William  Risbie,  who  died  23rd  Sept.  1552, 
leaving  Robert,  his  son  and  heir,"  and  of  Robert  Risbie,  who  died  3rd  May, 
1557,  leaving  William,  his  son  and  heir.3 

The  property  was  described  in  1789  as  consisting  of  two  freehold  farms 
in  Thorpe  Morieux.  "  The  homestall,  a  great  farm,  is  a  manor  farm  with 
its  free  rents,  quit  rents,  and  manorial  rights  and  privileges,  and  consists 
of  2O3a.  3r.  24p.,  and  is  called  or  known  by  the  name  of  the  Manor  of 
Gorgetts.4  In  1818  the  manor  farm  of  Gorgets  was  stated  to  consist  of 
290  acres,  while  in  1828  the  description  runs,  "The  Manor  and  Manor  Farm 
of  Gorgets,  containing  212  acres."5 

MANOR  OF  THROGTON  al.  THRUTON  al.  CASTELL'S. 

In  1289  Bartholomew  de  Castello  appears  to  have  acquired  this  manor 
under  a  fine  levied  this  year  against  Robert  de  Burgate  and  Juliana  his 
wife.6  He  was  living  in  1325,  for  we  find  from  the  Close  Rolls  of  this  year 
that  he  acknowledged  owing  John  de  Shirbourn  £50,  to  be  levied  in  default 
of  payment  on  his  lands  in  Suffolk.7 

Bartholomew  de  Castello  by  Alienora  his  wife,  had  a  son  John 
living  in  1351,  for  he  then  paid  505.  for  half  a  fee  held  here  of  the  Earl  of 
Oxford,  who  held  of  the  Earl  of  Clare. 

This  manor  subsequently  passed  to  Ralph  Chamberlain,8  and  from  him 
passed  in  the  reign  of  Hen.  VI.  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Roger  Chamberlain. 
From  his  death  in  1464  to  about  1580  the  manor  passed  in  the  same  course 
as  the  Manor  of  Gedding,  in  Thedwestry  Hundred. 

A  fine  was  in  1580  levied  of  "  Casteleyn's  Manor,"  which  may  possibly 
relate  to  this  manor.  It  was  levied  by  John  Godsalf  against  John  Havell 
and  others,  and  included  lands  in  Kersey,  Hadleigh,  Lindsey,  Semer,  and 
Whatfield.9 

By  1597  the  manor  had  been  acquired  by  John  Brond,  who  was  then 
lord,  and  the  descent  of  the  manor  is  given  in  the  Rawlinson  MSS.  in  the 
Bodleian.10  In  1602  we  find  amongst  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Cal. 
to  Pleadings,  a  suit  as  to  relief  for  this  manor,  and  suit  and  service  to  Court, 
Layton  v.  Bronde."11 

In  1414  we  meet  with  a  fine  of  a  moiety  of  the  Manor  of  Thorpe  Morieux 
and  that  of  Felsham  and  the  advowson  between  William  Clopton,  William 
Rokewood,  Thomas  Hethe  of  Mildenhall,  Edmund  Wynter,  Thos.  Hethe  of 
Saxham,  Giles  de  Perye  and  Walter,  against  Richard  Hethe  and  Elizabeth 
his  wife.  It  affected  lands  in  Thorpe  Morieux,  Felsham,  Gedding,  Bradfield 
St.  Clare,  Preston,  Kettlebaston,  Brettenham,  Hitcham,  Bildeston,  and 
Rattlesden." 


1 1.P.M.,  15  Hen.  VI.  52.  "See  Manors  of  Chamberleyns.in  Stoke  by 

2 1.P.M.,  6  Edw.  VI.  65.  Nayland,  in  Babergh  Hundred,  and 

3 1. P.M.,  3  and  4  Phil,  and  M.  137.  Gedding    Manor,     in     Thedwestry 

4 Ipswich  Journal,  2jth  June,  1789.  Hundred. 

5 Ipswich  Journal,  iath  July,  1828.  'Fine,  Easter,  22  Eliz. 

6  Feet  of  Fines,  15  Edw.  I.  51.  "Rawl.  6.319. 

7Close  Rolls,  3  Edw.  III.  nd.  "[44]  Eliz.  8. 

IJFeet  of  Fines,  2  Hen.  V.  10. 


208  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

WATTISHAM. 

MONG  the  lands  of  Richard,  son  of  Earl  Gislebert,  was  a 
holding  consisting  of  80  acres,  3  bordars,  i  serf,  i  ploughteam 
in  demesne  and  i£  acres  of  meadow.  The  live  stock  con- 
sisted of  3  rouncies,  8  beasts,  3  hogs,  and  80  sheep,  and  the 
latter  were  considerably  altered  at  the  time  of  the  Survey, 
the  rouncies  having  increased  to  5,  the  beasts  to  n,  and  the 
hogs  to  25,  while  the  sheep  had  disappeared.  The  value 
was  255.  The  soc  belonged  to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds.  This  holding 
formerly  belonged  to  Uluric,  a  freeman,  and  at  the  time  ot  the  Survey 
belonged  to  Phin's  fee.1 

In  the  same  township  were  15  acres,  valued  at  2s.  6d.,  formerly  held 
by  a  freeman.  The  soc  belonged  to  Wisgar,  and  the  six  forfeitures  to  the 
Abbot  of  Bury. 

Eudo,  son  of  Spirwic,  had  a  holding  in  this  place,  consisting  of  I  caru- 
cate  of  land,  3  bordars,  i  ploughteam,  and  3  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at 
2os.  The  six  forfeitures  belonged  to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds.  It  was 
held  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  by  Jarnac,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Confessor 
by  a  freeman  over  whom  the  Abbot  of  Ely  had  the  commendation  and 
soc.J 

MANOR  OF  WATTISHAM  HALL. 

This  was  the  holding  of  Uluric,  a  freeman,  in  Saxon  times,  and  of 
Richard,  son  of  Earl  Gislebert  de  Clare,  in  the  time  of  the  Survey.  The 
ancient  family  of  Wachesham,  which  derives  its  name  from  hence,  became 
very  early  seated  in  this  place,  and  held  this  manor  by  the  serjeanty 
of  the  peculiar  character  under  which  the  Manor  of  Hemingston,  in  Claydon 
Hundred,  was  held.  Giles  de  Wachesham  is  mentioned  in  the  Testa  de 
Nevill  as  holding  30  acres  here.3 

In  the  early  part  of  the  I3th  century  the  manor  was  vested  in  Osbert 
de  Wachesham,  son  of  Gerard.  The  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer  assigned 
to  him  a  knight's  fee  of  the  Bishop  of  Ely  here.4  But  at  the  same  time 
Beatrice,  widow,  was  holding  3  knights'  fees  of  the  bishop.5  Osbert  died 
seised  in  1227,  and  Isabel  de  Wachesham,  his  widow,  in  1234  resided  here. 
The  manor  passed  to  Osbert's  son  and  heir,  Sir  Giles  de  Wachesham,6  who 
had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here  1248.  7  He  held  part  of  this  manor  of 
Sir  Peter  de  Taleword  in  chief,  by  the  service  of  one  knight's  fee,  and  the 
residue  of  the  Bishop  of  Ely  in  chief  by  a  like  service. 

He  died  in  1267,"  and  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Giles  de 
Wachesham,  on  whose  death  in  1272,®  it  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Gerard 
de  Wachesham.'0  From  the  Patent  Rolls  for  1299  we  learn  that  a  commission 
was  issued  on  the  complaint  of  John  de  Bocland  that  this  Gerard  de  Wache- 
sham, and  others  had  entered  his  manor  at  Wattisham  and  carried  away 
his  goods."  Possibly  this  was  the  Manor  of  Loose,  which  apparently  was 
formerly  a  Manor  of  Wattisham.  On  Sir  Gerard  de  Wachesham's  death12 

1  Dom.  ii.  391.  8I.P.M.,  52  Hen.  III.  14,  or  File  35  (10). 

JDom.  ii.  435.  »I.P.M.,  I  Edw.  I.  9  ;  3  Edw.  I.  28. 

3T.  de  N.  286.  '°H.R.  ii.  151.    See  Stanstead   Manor,  in 

«  1210-12,  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer,                    Babergh  Hundred. 

140*.  "  Pat.  Rolls,  27  Edw.  I.  21  ;    28  Edw.  I. 


'He  gave  to  Cast  lea  ere  Priory,  in  Norfolk,  "See  Stanstead  Manor,  in  Babergh  Hun  - 

two  parts  of  the  tithes  of  this  dred,  and  Manor  of  Wortham  Hall, 

parish.  in  Hartismere  Hundred. 

'Chart.  Rolls,  32  Hen.  III.  pt.  i.  6. 


WATTISHAM.  209 

in  1294,  the  manor  passed  to  his  son,  Sir  Gerard  or  Sir  Giles,  and  on  his  death 
to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Giles  de  Wachesham,  who  was  Sheriff  of  Norfolk, 
and  M.P.  in  1326  and  1333.  The  manor  shortly  afterwards  vested  in  Sir 
Robert  de  Wachesham.  He  was  a  cousin  of  the  last-mentioned  Sir  Giles, 
being  the  great-great-grandson  of  John,  the  brother  of  Sir  Giles  de  Wache- 
sham, great-grandfather  of  Sir  Giles,  the  last  holder  of  the  manor.  We 
meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  the  manor  in  1340  by  this  Robert  de  Wachesham 
and  Joan  his  wife  against  William  de  Hedersete,  parson  of  Attleburgh 
Church,  and  Walter  Laurenz,  parson  of  Nauelton  Church.' 

Sir  Robert  de  Wachesham  married  Joan,  daughter  and  heir  of  Simon 
Hetherset,  justice,  1314,  and  died  in  1366,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his 
daughter  and  coheir,  Winesia,  or  by  some  called  Jane,  married  to  Sir 
Oliver  Wythe.  From  them  it  passed  to  Sir  John  Wythe,  who,  dying  in 
1387,  it  went  to  his  daughter  and  coheir  Agnes,  married  to  Sir  William 
Calthorpe. 

There  seems  to  have  been  another  daughter,  married  first  to  Sir  Henry 
Inglose  and  secondly  to  Sir  William  Besset. 

In  1471  Roger  Townshend  and  William  Calthorpe  held  a  moiety.  Sir 
William  Calthorpe,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  William,  was  lord,  and  in  1494  Sir 
Philip  Calthorpe,  grandson  and  heir.  From  an  inquisition  taken  in  1495 
we  learn  that  the  manor  was  worth  20  marks,  and  was  held  of  the  Bishop 
of  Ely,  that  William  Palmer  being  seised,  enfeoffed  trustees  to  use  of  Sir 
William  Calthorpe's  will.  Sir  William  Calthorpe  died  I5th  Nov.  I494,2 
and  Philip  Calthorpe,  aged  30,  his  grandson,  was  his  heir,  being  the  son  of 
John,  his  son.3  Sir  Philip  Calthorpe  died  in  1535,  when  the  manor  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Philip  Calthorpe.  He  died  7th  April,  1549,  when  the 
manor  passed  to  his  daughter,  Elizabeth,  widow  of  Sir  Henry  Parker.4 
Elizabeth  seems  to  have  married  2ndly  Sir  William  Wodehouse  of  Waxham, 
and  3rdly  Drue  Drury. 

At  the  opening  of  the  I7th  century  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  Thomas 
Dandy,  and  amongst  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records  will  be  found  a  suit 
in  1602,  as  to  relief  for  this  manor,  and  suit  and  service  to  Court.  The 
suit  is  Laytonv.  Dandy. *  Thomas  Dandy  died  in  1607,  when  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edmund  Dandy. 

A  little  later  we  find  Hugh  Lancaster, of  Lidgate,  seised,  from  whom  the 
manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Lancaster,  and  subsequently  we 
find  Simon  Blomeville  or  Blomfield,  of  Coddenham,  lord.  He  died  seised 
in  1633,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  William  Blomeville,  of 
Bildeston,  and  from  him,  on  his  death  in  1672,  to  his  son  and  heir,  John 
Blomeville,6  who  married  Mary,  daughter  and  heir  of  Henry  Whiting,  of 
Ipswich,  and  died  in  1696. 

Mr.  Porter,  of  Ipswich,  held  the  manor  by  purchase  about  1825.  The 
manor  was  advertised  for  sale  at  the  White  Horse,  Ipswich,  27th  Aug.  1829, 
when  it  was  stated  that  there  was  held  with  the  manor  the  principal  part  of 
the  capital  mansion  house,  27  messuages,  and  other  buildings,  and  420 
acres.  The  amount  of  quit  and  free  rents  was  stated  to  be  £20.  I2s.  loW. 
per  annum,  the  average  of  fines  for  the  eight  years  previous  to  be  £70".  See 

1  Feet  of  Fines,  14  Edw.  III.  4.  'Duchy  of  Lane.,  Cal.  to  Pleadings,  [44] 

:  See  Manor  of  Bromc  Hall,  in  Hartismere  Eliz.  7. 

Hundred,    and    Lound    Manor,  in  *For  Blomeville  family  see  Bridge  Place 
Lothingland   Hundred.  Manor,    Coddenham,    in    Bosmere 

s  Inquis.,  n  Hen.  VII.  975.  and  Claydon  Hundred. 

« I.P.M.,  3  Edw.  VI.  148.  " Ipswich  Journal,  1st  Aug.  1829. 

C  I 


210  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

also  another  sale  advertised  to  take  place  in  London  in  1838.'  The  manor 
was  about  1834  sold  to  Richard  Wilson,  of  Bildeston. 

He  was  the  son  of  George  Wilson,  of  Hepscot,  co.  Northumberland,  and 
had  been  elected  M.P.  for  Ipswich  in  1806,  with  the  Hon.  Capt.  Stopford. 
He  practised  as  a  solicitor  in  Gray's  Inn,  and  acted  for  several  years  as 
steward  to  Lord  Chedworth,  during  which  time  he  succeeded  in  recovering 
for  that  nobleman  upwards  of  £60,000,  which  his  predecessor  had  fraudu- 
lently put  out  in  his  name.  On  his  patron's  death  in  1804,  he  was  left  by 
will  (the  validity  of  which  was  unsuccessfully  attacked)  the  sum  of  £40,000. 
His  wife  was  Hannah  Selby,  who  had  previously  carried  on  business  as  a 
milliner  at  Ipswich. 

Richard  Wilson  died  June,  1834,  aged  74,  and  was  buried  in  a  vault 
near  the  centre  of  the  Church  of  Bildeston.  The  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Richard  Percy  Wilson,  who  died  unmarried  in  1837  a*  *he  earty 
age  of  39,  leaving  his  two  sisters,  Sarah  and  Elizabeth,  his  coheirs.  Sarah 
married  the  Rev.  John  Hey  wood  Randolph,  2nd  son  of  the  Bishop  of  London ; 
and  Elizabeth  married  the  Rev.  Montagu  Oxenden,  son  of  Sir  Henry 
Oxenden,  Bart.,  of  Wingham,  co.  Kent.  The  manor  was  advertised  for  sale 
at  the  Golden  Lion,  Ipswich,  I7th  May,  1842,  when  it  was  stated  that  about 
200  acres  were  held  of  it,  and  that  the  free  and  quit  rents  then  amounted 
to  £11.  35.  $\d.  per  annum.1 

In  1847  the  manor  was  held  by  Messrs.  Last,  Wallace,  &  Last, 
solicitors,  of  Hadleigh.  In  1855  the  Rev.  Richard  Daniel,  of  Combs,  was 
lord.  In  1885  the  executors  of  J.F.Robinson  held  the  manor.andit  recently 
belonged  to  the  late  Richard  Henry  Wood,  of  Belmont,  Sidmouth.  The 
hall,  occupied  as  a  farmhouse,  is  still  surrounded,  or  partly  so,  by  a  moat. 

Arms  of  WACHESHAM  :  Arg.  a  fesse  and  a  chief  2  crescents  Gu. 


'Ipswich  Journal,  I4th  April,  1838.  2  Ipswich  Journal,  7th  May,  1842. 


WHATFIELD.  211 

WHATFIELD. 

|WO  holdings  in  this  place  were  those  of  Robert  Blunt.  The 
first  consisted  of  60  acres  and  2  ploughteams  (which  had 
become  i  at  the  time  of  the  Survey).  It  was  valued  at 
6s.,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  at  20s.  The  estate  had 
formerly  been  held  by  5  freemen.  Over  one  the  Abbot 
of  St.  Edmunds  had  commendation,  and  over  all  the  soc. 
Robert  Blunt'spredecessorhad  neither  commendation  nor  soc. 

The  second  holding  consisted  of  63  acres  and  2  ploughteams  (which  had 
become  half  a  team  at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  valued  at  zos.  Sd.  This 
estate  had  formerly  been  held  by  4  freemen.' 

Among  the  lands  of  Robert,  Earl  of  Mortaign,  were  15  acres,  valued  at 
4od.,  formerly  held  by  a  freeman.  The  soc  belonged  to  the  Abbot  of  St. 
Edmunds.2 

Among  the  lands  of  Roger  Bigot  was  an  estate  of  15  acres,  valued  at 
2s.  6d.,  which  he  held  from  Hosdenc.  In  the  time  of  the  Confessor  it 
had  been  held  by  a  freeman,  over  whom  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  had 
commendation  and  soc  complete.3  The  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  had  a  hold- 
ing in  this  place  of  18  freemen,  having  2jcarucates  of  land,  7  acres  of  meadow, 
6  bordars,  and  4  ploughteams,  valued  at  405.  (which  at  the  time  of  the 
Survey  had  increased  to  505.).  Of  this  land  Berard  held  i  carucate,  3 
freemen,  and  i  ploughteam,  valued  at  2os.,  out  of  the  said  value.  The  soc 
and  sac  and  commendation  belonged  to  the  abbot.  It  was  6  quarentenes 
long  and  5  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  5^.  Others  had  holdings  here.4  Another 
holding  mentioned  was  that  of  Richard,  son  of  Earl  Gislebert,  and  con- 
sisted of  60  acres,  3  bordars,  ij  ploughteams  (which  at  the  time  of  the 
Survey  were  2  teams),  valued  at  los.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  3  free- 
men. Over  these  Richard,  son  of  Earl  Gislebert's  predecessor,  had  com- 
mendation and  soc  and  sac  in  the  time  ot  the  Confessor,  the  Abbot  of  St. 
Edmunds  having  the  six  forfeitures.5 

Roger  de  Oburville  had  an  estate  in  this  place,  consisting  of  60  acres, 
2  bordars,  I  ploughteam  (which  was  reduced  to  half  a  team  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey),  and  i  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  ros.  The  commendation 
and  soc  belonged  to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds.  The  estate  had  formerly 
been  held  by  a  freeman.6 

Another  holding  was  that  of  Ranulf  Peverell,  consisting  of  20  acres, 
valued  at  20^.,  formerly  belonging  to  Lestan,  of  which  the  soc  belonged  to 
the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds.7 

The  last  estate  was  that  of  a  ?ocman  of  the  abbey,  consisting  of  100 
acres  and  i  ploughteam  (which  had  gradually  disappeared  at  the  time  of 
the  Survey),  valued  at  ios.,  held  by  Berard,  the  abbot's  man,  of  the  abbot 
Robert,  son  of  Corbuzzo,  being  the  Domesday  tenant  in  chief.8 

MANOR  OF  WHATFIELD  HALL. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  Thomas  de  Cokefeld  in  1314,  and  in  1428  was 
still  in  the  same  family  in  the  person  of  Richard  de  Cokefield.  A  fine  was 
levied  of  the  Manor  of  Whatfield  in  1357-8  by  Giles  de  Pateshull  against 
Sir,  William  de  Pateshull,9  and  another  in  1367  by  Roger  de  Bello  Campo, 

1  Dom.  ii.  440.  6Dom.  ii.  405. 

2  Dom.  ii.  292.  'Dom.  ii.  4176. 

3  Dom.  ii.  3306.  8Dom.  ii.  426. 

4  Dom.  ii.  369.  9  Feet  of  Fines,  31-32  Edw.  III.  19. 

5  Dom.  ii.  3976. 


THE    MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 


sen.,  and  Sibilla  his  wife,  against  Thos.  Wake,  of  Blysworth,  and  Alice  his 
wife,  but  it  relates  only  to  a  fourth  part  of  the  manor.1  i  litre  is  also  a 
third  fine  levied  of  the  manor  and  advowson,  or  rather  of  a  moiety  of  these, 
in  1379,  between  William  Berard  and  John  Crispyngg  and  Joan  his  wife.' 
A  fourth  part  is  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.,  of  Thomas  Faucombrige, 
in  1382,'  and  a  half  in  that  of  Roger  de  Bello  Campo  the  following  year.4 

In  the  beginning  of  the  i6th  century  the  manor  was  acquired  by  Sir 
James  Hobart,  and  from  him  descended  to  Henry  Hobart,  who  died  in  1561, 
in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Trimley  St.  Mary,  in  Colneis  Hundred. 
Henry  Hobart,  with  others,  levied  a  fine  of  the  manor  in  1531  against  Nicholas 
Rokewode  and  others,5  and  in  1546  sold  the  manor  to  Sir  John  Spring.6 
The  fine  included  the  Manor  of  Milding,  and  also  the  advowson  of  Milding 
Church.  Sir  John  Spring  died  7th  Feo.  1547,  when  the  manor  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  Sir  William  Spring,  who  died  in  1599,  when  it  vested  in 
John  Spring,  who  in  1601  just  before  his  death  sold  the  manor  to  Nicholas 
Strutt.7 

In  1602  we  meet  with  a  suit  as  to  relief  for  the  manor  and  lands  and 
tenements  in  an  action  between  Layton  and  Strutt  amongst  the  Duchy  of 
Lancaster  Records.8  From  Nicholas  Strutt  the  manor  passed  to  John 
Strutt  about  1609.  It  later  vested  in  William  Vesey,  who  died  in  1699, 
and  afterwards  passed  to  William  Mayhew,  of  Colchester,  who  held  in  1764. 
Later  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  Mr.  Cooke,  and  in  1847  ^  was  nekl  by 
Mary  Anne  Tyrrell,  of  Polstead.  In  1855  the  manor  was  vested  in  Charles 
Tyrrell,  and  in  1885  in  Miss  Cooke. 

Leases  of  this  manor  in  1388  and  1497  are  amongst  the  Additional 
Charters  in  the  British  Museum." 

MANOR  OF  BERRARD'S  HALL. 

This  was  vested  in  the  early  part  of  the  i6th  century  in  Thomas  Spring, 
who  died  2gth  June,  1523,'°  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John 
Spring.  A  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  in  1536  by  Sir  Thomas  Jermyn 
against  Edmund  Lee."  It  is,  of  course,  possible  that  this  fine  related  to  a 
manor  of  the  same  name  in  Old  Newton.  Sir  John  Spring'2  died  i2thAug. 
1547, '3  when  the  manor  passed  under  his  will  dated  8th  June,  1544, '4  after  a 
devise  to  his  executors  for  eleven  years,  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  William 
Spring,  then  aged  18. 

A  fine  of  the  manor  was  in  1570  levied  against  him  by  John  Higham 
and  others.'5  Sir  William  Spring  died  3rd  Feb.  1599.  He  seems,  however, 
to  have  sold  during  his  lifetime,  for  in  1588  we  find  the  manor  vested  in 
Bridget  Rolfe,  widow,  and  from  her  it  passed  in  1624  to  her  son  and  heir, 
William  Rolfe,  of  Hadleigh. 

In  1637  Sir  George  Waldegrave,  of  Hitcham,  died  seised,  and  the  manor 
passed  to  his  daughter  and  heir,  Elizabeth,  married  to  Arthur  Cooke. 


'  Feet  of  Fines,  41  Edw.  III. 
•Feet  of  Fines,  3  Rich.  20. 

>  I.P.M.,  6  Rich.  II.  180. 
« 1.P.M.,  7  Rich.  II.  22. 

>  Fine,  Hil.  23  Hen.  VIII. 
•Fine,  Mich.  38  Hen.  VIII. 
'Fine,  Easter,  43  Eliz. 

•Cal.  to  Pleadings,  [44]  Eliz.  9. 
•  Add.  Ch.  18672,  18673,  9132. 
"I.P.M.,  15  Hen.  VIII.  17. 


'•  Fine,  Hil.  28  Hen.  VIII. 

"See  Manors  of  Netherhall,  Little  Walding- 
field,  Babergh  Hundred,  and  Manors 
of  Woodhall,  in  Rattlesden  and 
Pakenham,  in  Thedwestry  Hun- 
dred. 

n  I.P.M.,  2  Edw.  VI.  65. 

'«  Proved  2ist  May,  1549. 

•5  Fine,  Mich.  12  Eliz. 


WHATFIELD. 


213 


Later  the  manor  vested  in  Thomas  Martin,  and  subsequently  vested 
in  Robert  Bower,  and  later  in  George  Henry  Bower,  of  Rossington,  and 
John  William  Bower,  of  Barmston,  both  in  Yorkshire,  who  each  held 
jointly  one  fourth  part. 

In  1885  this  manor  was  vested  in  W.  H.  Nunn,  and  it  is  now  vested  in 
Mr.  Charles  James  Grimwade,  of  Hadleigh. 

MANOR  OF  PEYTON'S  OR  MANNOR'S. 

Of  this  lordship  William  Timperley  died  seised  in  1528,  and  from  this 
time  to  the  death  of  Nicholas  Timperley,  in  1624  the  manor  passed  in  the 
same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Hintlesham,  in  Samford  Hundred,  shortly 
after  this  date  becoming  extinguished. 

MANOR  OF  HORNHAM. 

We  learn  little  of  this  lordship  save  that  it  belonged  to  Robert  Barwell, 
and  later  to  Sir  Robert  Pocklington,  of  Chelsworth,  Knt. 

MANOR  OF  FURNEAUX. 

This  was  the  estate  of  Robert  de  Furneaux,  from  whose  family  it  derived 
its  name  in  the  opening  of  the  I4th  century.  Robert  Furneaux  died  seised 
in  1313  of  a  messuage  and  200  acres  of  land,  5  acres  i  rood  of  meadow,  5  acres 
of  wood,  and  135.  'jd.  rent,  and  40  acresof  the  Manor  of "  Neddings,"  20  acres 
land  and  pasture.'  On  the  Close  Rolls  of  the  following  year  we  find  a 
demise  by  Hervey  de  Staunton  and  Thomas  de  Essex  for  the  use  of  Sit 
William  de  Vallibus  and  Burgia  his  wife  of  the  custody  of  the  lands  in 
Whatfield,  that  Sir  Robert  de  Furneaux  held  of  Hervey  in  chief  of  the  Manor 
of  Nedging  during  the  minority  of  John,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Robert." 

Sir  John  Furneaux  died  in  1349.  ^n  I31^  he  had  levied  a  fine  of  the 
manor  with  his  wife  Maria  against  William  Visdelieu  and  Saier  Suvllard, 
parson  of  Rendlesham  Church.3  He  was  succeeded  by  his  son  John. 

In  1388  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  Thomas  Hethe,  3rd  son  of  John 
Hethe,  for  in  that  year  he,  with  Ralph  Hemenhal,  Reginald  de  Nanton, 
John  Wryghte  of  Hecham,  John  Cokebred  of  Hecham,  Thomas  Tumour 
of  Combs,  and  Thomas  Cainer,  granted  a  lease  of  it  for  7  years.  The  lease 
is  dated  the  Monday  after  Michaelmas,  12  Rich.  III.,  and  has  affixed  6 
seals.4  On  the  death  of  Thomas  Hethe  in  I44O,5  the  manor  passed  to  his  son, 
George  Hethe,  of  Mildenhall.  He,  prior  to  1451,  granted  the  manor  to 
Laurence  Cheyne,  Philip  Bottilere,  John  Cheyne,  Robert  Borle,  and  John 
Wryght,  of  Mildenhall,  as  trustees,  who  by  deed  dated  1st  May,  1451, 
granted  the  same  to  the  said  George  Hethe  and  Margaret  his  wife,  and  the 
heirs  of  their  bodies.6 

Amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum  is  a  lease  of 
the  manor,  granted  by  George  Hethe,  7th  August,  36  Hen.  VI.  [1458], 
for  seven  years  to  Augustus  Parker  of  Nedynge,  Henry  Parker  of  Semere, 
and  John  Parker,  of  Aldeham.  The  lease  is  dated  at "  Blydeston,"  and  has 
three  seals.7  On  the  death  of  George  Hethe,  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Francis  Hethe,8  who  died  in  1480,"  when  the  manor  passed  to  his 


1 1.P.M.,  7  Edw.  II.  12. 

•  Close  Rolls,  8  Edw.  II.  33^. 

3 Feet  of  Fines,  12  Edw.  II.  40. 

4  Add.  Ch.  18672. 

s  Will  ist  March,  1440. 


6  Add.  Ch.  9129. 

7  Add.  Ch.  18756. 

8  See    Timworth    Manor,    in    Thedwestry 

Hundred. 
9I.P.M.,  20  Edw.  IV.  24. 


2I4  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

(laughters  and  coheirs,  Margaret  and  Agnes.1  Margaret  married  George 
Bokenham,  of  Snetherton,  in  Norfolk,  and  amongst  the  Additional  Charters 
in  the  Hritish  Museum  is  a  deed  indented  dated  the  ist  March,  12  Hen.  VII. 
[1407],  by  which  the  said  George  Bokenham  and  Margaret  his  wife  assure 
toHumphyrey  Catesby  and  Gracehiswife,  formerly  wife  of  Francis"  Heyth" 
and  mother  of  the  said  Margaret,  this  manor  for  the  term  of  the  life  of  the 
said  Grace,  rendering  annually  i  sol.J 

No  doubt  the  Bokenhams  acquired  the  whole  manor,  for  on  the  death 
of  George  Bokenham,  2ist  Sept.  1525,  it  passed  to  his  widow,  Margaret. 
Amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum  we  find  a  lease  of 
the  manor  from  this  Margaret,  described  as  "  Margaret  Bokynham  of  Sny- 
terton,  co.  Norfolk,  widow  of  George  Bokynham,"  to  Robert  Snellynge,  of 
Elmesset,  John  Snellyngsof  the  same,  and  Robert  Laundeswan,  of  Marty- 
sham,  yeoman  for  20  years.  The  lease  is  dated  24th  Sept.  27th  Hen.  VIII. 
[i535l.4  Subject  to  the  widow  Margaret's  interest,  the  manor  passed  to  her 
son  and  heir,  Thomas  Bokenham,  and  from  this  time  to  the  time  of  Sir  John 
Carry  11,  his  grandson,  the  manor  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of 
Thelnetham,  in  Blackbourn  Hundred.  It  is  specifically  mentioned  in  the 
inquisition  p.m.  of  John  Bokenham,  who  died  ist  Aug.  1551.' 

Sir  John  Caryll  by  a  deed  dated  26th  July,  25  Eliz.  [1583],  in  which 
he  is  described  as  of  Wameham,  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  sold  and  conveyed 
the  manor  to  Thomas  Roberte?  and  Alicia  his  wife.  This  deed  of  conveyance 
is  still  in  existence,  and  in  private  hands.6 

Amongst  the  Records  of  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster  is  a  suit  as  to  ingress 
fine,  and  suit  and  service  to  Court  for  this  manor,  which  Thomas  Robertes 
had  purchased  from  Sir  John  Carrill,  and  claimed  to  hold  of  Sir  John  Higham 
as  of  the  Manor  of  Nedging.  The  suit  is  "  Layton  v.  Roberts,"  and  was 
brought  in  the  44th  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth.7 

We  also  find  amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  an  action  by  John 
Greenwood  against  this  Thomas  Robertes  to  obtain  admittance  to  copy- 
holds held  of  this  manor,  "  late  the  estate  of  Thomas  Greenwood,  pltf's 
father  "  Thomas  Robertes  died  seised  in  1636,  when  the  manor  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Robertes,  who  died  in  1680.  This  manor  was 
in  1855  vested  in  Lady  Austen,  and  is  now  vested  in  Mr.  Charles  James 
Grimwade,  of  Hadleigh. 

There  are  leases  of  this  manor  in  1451-1458  and  1535,  amongst  the 
Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.9 

There  seems  to  have  been  a  manor  called  Tudenham's,  of  which  Robert 
de  Tudenham  died  seised,10  of  a  fourth  part,  Sir  Thomas  Tudenham"  and 
Margaret  Bedingfield.12 

It  is  said  by  Kirby  that  there  is  another  Manor,  called  Cosford,  which 
formerly  belonged  to  Sir  Henry  D'Oyly,  and  later  to  the  Countess  of  Dysart, 
but  Cosford  Manor  is  in  Hadleigh. 

Arms  of  FURNEAUX  :  Gu.  a  bend  betw.  6  cross-crosslets,  Arg. 

•There    seems    to    have    been    another  6See,  too,  Fine,  Mich.  25-26  Eliz. 

daughter,    Elizabeth,    married    to  'Cal.  to  Pleadings,  44  Eliz.  24. 

Osbert  Mundeford.  «c.p.  i.  385. 

•She  was  a  daughter  of  Thomas  Saye,  of  »Add.  Ch.  9129,  18756,  18819. 

Layer-de-la-Hay,  Essex.  ICI.Q.D.,  5  Hen.  V.  2;   I.P.M.,  5  Hen.  V. 
» Add.  Ch.  9132.  42. 

« Add.  Ch.  18819.  "  I.P.M.,  5  Edw.  IV.  34. 

» I.P.M.,  6  Edw.  VI.  86.  » I.P.M.,  15  Edw.  IV.  38. 


HARTISMERE  HUNDRED. 


SAXTON, 

1C -7^. 

1576. 


pU  ap  *?n  *•*•*" 

#£f**»*  <^M  ;^L^  v/  x 
^S^c^  :  J^£^**t. 

'"^^Mu-MU^S 


O    S  ,F     O    R    D 


^trr^ 


HARTISMERE     HUNDRED. 
HARTESMERE,  HARTSMERE,  HERTESMERE,  HERTISMERE. 

|HIS  Hundred  is  bounded  on  the  east  by  that  of  Hoxne,  on 
the  west  by  that  of  Blackbourn  ;  on  the  north  by  the  River 
Waveney,  which  divides  it  from  Norfolk,  and  on  the  south 
by  the  Hundreds  of  Bosmere  and  Claydon  and  Stow.  It 
forms  a  Union  under  the  Poor  Law,  and  a  Deanery  which 
was  formerly  in  the  Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury,  but  was 
added  to  the  Archdeaconry  of  Suffolk  in  1837,  an^  *s  stiH 
in  the  diocese  of  Norwich.  It  is  a  fertile  district  averaging  about  10  miles 
in  length  and  breadth,  and  has  generally  a  strong  loamy  soil,  with  a  sub- 
stratum of  impervious  blue  clay  lying  at  the  depth  of  from  i  to  2  feet.  It 
is  one  of  the  Geldable  Hundreds  of  Suffolk,  and  the  fee  of  it  was  granted  in 
tail  male  by  Edward  III.  to  Robert  de  Ufford,  Earl  of  Suffolk  in  1337. 
In  1369  on  Robert's  death/  his  son  William  inherited,  and  it  reverted  on  his 
death2  to  the  Crown,  who  granted  the  same  to  the  De  la  Poles.  It  later 
vested  in  Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  who  granted  it  to  the  Crown 
in  exchange  in  1538.'  In  1844  it  was  vested  in  John  Henry  Heigham  of 
Hunston  Hall. 

Hartismere  contains  50,088  acres,  divided  into  32  parishes,  and   81 
manors. 


Parishes. 

Manors. 

Parishes. 

Manors. 

Aspall  

Aspall. 

Eye   or   Eye   Sode- 

Rooifin 

j  B  act  on. 

. 

mere  Netherhall. 

U  CL  L,  L  V_M  1                    .   • 

Boys  or  Horinger's. 

Flemworth  Hall. 

Old  Hall. 

Eve  . 

Cranley  al.   Cranley 

New  Hall. 

Hall. 

Braiseworth 

Bowell's  Hall  or 

Eye    Hall    al.    Eye 

Boville's. 

Priory. 

Barnies  or  Rooky's. 

Finningham  Hall  or 

Brockford   .  . 

Brockford  Hall,  now 
with  Wetheringset 

Finningham 

Coniers. 
I  Necton  Hall  or  Nor- 

Stoneham's. 

ton  Hall. 

Brome  Hall  or  Da- 

Swatshall  Hall. 

Brome      .... 

villers,  Ling  Hall. 

Rushies    now    with 

Monk's  Brome. 

*   Jennies. 

Burgate  

|  Burgate. 
Higham. 

Jennies. 
Gislingham,Golding- 

'  Cotton  Briseworth. 

Gislingham  .  . 

ham,  or  Golding- 

Cotton  Hempnall  or 

ham  Hall. 

Cotton     .... 

Caldecott. 

Lawford  and  Colles- 

Campine's  or  Cham- 

ford. 

pain's. 

Gislingham      and 

Gipswich. 

,     Heighams. 

'  I.P.M.,  43  Eclw.  III.  pt.  ii.  38. 
•I.P.M.,  5  Rich.  II.  57. 


3S.P.  ii.  1182,  i8a. 


216 


THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 


I  ar :   ^e 


Melhs 


Mcndlesham 


Oakley . 


Occold 

Palgravc 

Redgrave    . 
Redfingfield 

Rickinghall 
Superior 

Rishangles  . 
Stoke  Ash   . 


Stuston    . . 


Mmnors. 


Mellis. 
St.  John. 
Lancaster 


al.  Werts 


Parish*. 


Thorndon 


or  Pountneys.          All  Saints 
Heighani  Hall,  callc-d 

Barrington's. 
Mendlesham. 
Winchesters. 


Cordeboef s  or  Free 


Thornham 
Magna 


Tent.  Corbornes. 
Busshesor  Buces  al. 

Busses. 
FledeHallorFledd's 

Hall. 

Oakley  or  Hoo  Hall 
Beauchamps  in  Oak- 
ley (?  Woodhall). 
Occold  or  Occold 

Hall. 
Bedingham  or  Ben- 

ningliam. 
Palgrave. 
Fenhouse. 
Redgrave. 
Redlingiield. 
Facon's  Hall. 
St.  John's  or  Fitz 

John. 

Crowe's  Hall. 
Rishangles. 
Stoke  Hall. 
Stoke  Ash  with 

Thorpe. 
Wood  Hall. 
Faucon's  al.  Fakon 

or  Falcons.    Bezil-  Wyverstone 

lers  or  Boyland's. 
Beauchamps. 


Parva 


Thrandeston 


Thwaite 
Westhorpe 
Wethering- 
sett  cum 
Brockford 


Wickham 
Skeith 


Wortham 


Hugh  or  Hoo,  Mar- 
garet's al.  Stuston 
Hall. 


Yaxley. 


Manors. 


Godrich's  Thorpe  al. 

Claxton    Hall   al. 

Colston    Hall    <//. 

Lampets. 
Hesteley  Hall. 
Thorndon  Parva. 

Thornham   Hall   al. 

Briseworth's. 
Thornham. 
Hemenhall,  or 

Hemcnhalcs. 

Woodhouse. 

Thrandeston-  Wood- 

hall. 

Welholme's. 
Maveson's. 
Gossold's  or  Gos- 

nold's  or  Gos- 

woald's. 
\  Ampner's. 

Thwaite. 
Westhorpe  Hall. 

Wetheringsett. 

Wickham  Skeith  al. 

W.  Spey. 
Wickham  called 

Skeith's  or  Skeith 

Hall. 

Wortham  Hall. 
Wortham  Abbot's. 

Wyverstone. 
Hovells. 


Bull's  Head  with 
Blodgates  al. 
Boles. 


ASPALL.  217 

ASPALL. 

N  Saxon  times  there  were  two  small  manors  in  Aspall.  One 
was  held  in  the  time  of  Edward  the  Confessor  by  Brictmar, 
a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Edric,  with  30  acres. 
There  were  in  connection  with  this  manor  a  ploughteam, 
an  acre  of  meadow,  and  24  sheep,  and  the  value  was  IDS. 
The  King  and  the  Earl  had  the  soc.  The  manor  was  held 
at  the  time  of  the  Domesday  Survey  by  Robert  Malet  as 
tenant  of  his  mother,  who  held  in  chief.1 

The  other  manor  was  held  by  Siric,  a  freeman  with  30  acres,  and  to  it 
were  attached  3  bordars,  i  ploughteam,  4  acres  of  meadow,  wood  sufficient 
for  60  hogs,  and  13  beasts,  and  the  value  had  been  IDS.,  but  at  the  time  of 
the  Norman  Survey  the  value  was  155.  Stigand  had  the  soc,  and  Robert 
Malet  was  the  holder  in  chief.2 

Robert  Malet  had  also  another  holding  in  this  place.  One  was  of  3 
acres,  valued  at  6d.,  the  King  and  the  Earl  having  the  soc.  It  had  formerly 
been  held  by  a  freeman  under  commendation.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey 
it  was  held  by  William  Gulafra.  In  the  same  township  Robert  Malet  had 
two  parts  of  a  church. 

Among  the  lands  of  the  Bishop  of  Bayeux  were  two  holdings  in  this 
place.  One  consisted  of  20  acres  valued  at  45.,  held  by  Roger  Bigot,  and 
by  Ralph  de  Savigni  under  him.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  Leveva 
under  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely  and  in  his  soc. 

The  other  holding  was  in  the  same  township,  and  consisted  of  12  acres 
of  the  demesne  of  Debenham  and  5  bordars.  These  were  included  in  the  same 
valuation. 

Among  the  lands  of  Ranulf  Peverell  were  two  holdings,  the  first  con- 
sisting of  16  acres  of  the  demesne,  and  included  in  the  valuation  of  Ulverston 
(Ulverston  Hall),  4  bordars,  and  half  a  ploughteam,  the  second  in  the  same 
township  was  the  third  part  of  a  church,  and  the  third  part  of  a  fair. 

The  last  holding  mentioned  in  Aspall  is  in  the  Domesday  under  the 
heading,  "  Concerning  the  claims  in  dispute  between  the  Bishop  of  Bayeux 
and  Robert  Malet's  mother."  It  consisted  of  86  acres,  7  bordars,  3  plough- 
teams,  2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  405.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  4 
freemen  :  Derulf,  under  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely  ;  Thurstan, 
under  commendation  to  Sachs  ;  Marculf,  under  commendation  to  Edric, 
the  predecessor  of  Robert  Malet,  and  Grunulf,  under  sub-commendation  to 
Robert  Malet's  predecessor.  The  survey  goes  on  to  say  :  "Of  this  land 
William  Malet  was  seised — so  the  Hundred  witnesses — before  the  Bishop  of 
Bayeux,  and  later  came  Hubert  de  Port,  and  adjudged  the  land  free,  and 
seised  the  Bishop  of  this  land  because  the  freemen  used  to  hold  it,  and  on 
the  day  on  which  Earl  Ralph  made  forfeiture,  Robert  Malet's  mother  was 
seised  thereof,  witness  the  Hundred,  and  up  to  the  date  of  the  plea  (held)  at 
Odiham,  now  it  is  held,  just  as  the  King  ordered,  in  pace  Regis  between  the 
Bishop  and  Robert's  mother."3 

MANOR  OF  ASPALL. 

In  the  Davy  MSS.  Ralph  Peverell  is  regarded  as  lord  at  the  time  of 
the  Domesday  Survey,  but  it  does  not  appear  that  he  held  more  than  16 

'Dom.   ii.   3206.  3Dom.  ii.  450. 

2Dom.  ii.  3226. 

DI 


218 


THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 


acres  in  demesne.  The  manor  did  undoubtedly  come  to  the  Peverell 
family,  but  somewhat  later.  . 

One  of  the  manors  seems  to  have  been  the  lordship  of  William  Ic 
Botillier,  or  dc  Butler,  9  Edw.  I.  The  other  seems  to  have  been  the  inheri- 
tance of  Walter  de  Langton,  Bishop  of  Lichfield  and  Coventry,  who  in  1301 
K  vied  a  fine  of  this  and  Debenham  and  Brampton  Manors,  and  the  advow- 
son  of  Brampton  Church,  against  Adam  de  Hodeleston,  Adam  Bacon, 
Henry  de  Clysewell  and  Alice  his  wife  (J  ohn  de  la  Faleyse,  of  Dunwich,  and 
Robert  de  Sefeld,  app.  clam),'  and  in  1303  granted  this  manor  to  Thomas 
de  Grauncourt  and  Agnes  his  wife  for  life  of  Agnes,  with  remainder  to  the 
Bishop's  heirs.  From  the  Close  Rolls  of  1316  it  appears  that  the  Bishop  had 
demised  this  manor  with  that  of  Debenham  to  Matthew  de  Huddescham, 
as  well  as  to  Thomas  de  Grauncourt  and  Agnes  his  wife.  Matthew  surren- 
dered to  the  Bishop  his  share.2  In  1328  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of 
Aspall  and  Debenham  Manor  between  William  de  Hoddeshagh  and  Agnes, 
his  wife.3 

Alice,  sister  and  heir  of  Walter  de  Langton,  married  Edmund  Peverell. 
Edmund  left  a  son  and  heir,  John,  and  also  a  daughter,  Margaret.  On  the 
Patent  Rolls  will  be  found  the  rectification  of  a  lease  and  confirmation  of  a 
grant  of  the  manor  during  the  minority  of  this  John.4  He  seems  to  have  died 
under  age,  or  without  issue,  and  the  manor  passed  to  Margaret,  his  sister, 
married  to  William  de  la  Pole.  These  last  were  owners  in  1352.  They  were 
succeeded  by  Sir  John  de  la  Pole,  Knt.,  their  son  and  heir,  who  left  a 
daughter,  Joan,  who  married  4  times,  ist  Sir  Robert  Harnengdale,  who  left 
no  surviving  issue  ;  2ndly,  Sir  Reginald  Braybroke,  by  whom  she  had  one 
surviving  daughter,  Joan,  Baroness  Cobham,  married  to  Sir  Thomas 
Brooke,  Knt.,  who  became  Lord  Cobham  in  right  of  his  wife  Joan.  Sir 
John  de  la  Pole's  daughter  married  3rdly  Sir  Nicholas  Hawberke,  but  by 
him  had  no  surviving  issue,  and  4thly  Sir  John  Oldcastle,  Knt.  Sir  John 
Oldcastle  was  summoned  to  Parliament  jure  uxoris  as  Baron  Cobham  in 
1409,  for  his  wife's  mother  was  the  only  daughter  of  John  de  Cobham, 
2nd  Baron  Cobham.  He  is  celebrated  in  history  as  the  leader  of  the 
Lollards,  eventually  laying  down  his  life  in  maintenance  of  his  principles. 
He  was  known  as  the  good  Lord  Cobham,  a  man  of  whom  Walpole  says 
"  his  virtues  made  him  a  reformer,  whose  valour  made  him  a  martyr,  whose 
martyrdom  made  him  an  enthusiast." 

Lord  Cobham  was  taken  in  1417  in  Wales,  within  the  territory  of  Lord 
Powys,  and  brought  to  trial,  when  he  was  convicted  and  sentenced  to  be 
drawn,  hanged,  and  burnt  on  the  gallows.  The  manor  then  seems  to  have 
passed  to  Sir  Edward  Brooke,  son  of  Sir  Thomas  Brooke,  and  of  Joan,  his 
wife,  only  daughter  of  Sir  Reginald  Braybroke,  who  in  1445  was  summoned 
to  Parliament  as  "  Edward  Brooke  de  Cobham  Chevalier."  He  was  a 
zealous  upholder  of  the  House  of  York,  participated  in  the  victory  of  St. 
Albans  in  1454,  and  commanded  the  left  wing  of  the  Yorkshiremen  at 
Northampton.  He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  James,  Lord  Audley, 
and  dying  in  1464  without  issue,  was  succeeded  by  his  brother  Reginald.5 
Reginald  Broke  married  Anne  Everton  and  died  in  1482,'  when  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edward  Brooke.  He  married  Florence,  daughter 
of  Robert  Ashfield  of  Stowlangtoft,  and  on  his  death  in  1541  the  manor 


1  Feet  of  Fines,  29  Edw.  I.  29. 
'Close  Rolls,  10  Edw.  II.  >jd. 
'Feet  of  Fines,  2  Edw.  III.  32. 


4  Pat.   Rolls,  8  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  35  ;   10 

Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  37. 
'I.P.M.,  4  Edw.  IV.  26. 
•I.P.M.,  22  Edw.  IV.  21. 


ASPALL.  219 

passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  George  Brooke,  who  married  Anne,  daughter  of 
John  Carewe,  son  of  Sir  William  Carewe,  of  Somersetshire.  He  died  I5th 
Dec.  1554,'  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  George  Brooke,  who 
married  ist  Alice,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Tyrrel,  of  Gipping,  Knt.,  and  2ndly 
Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Edmund  Withipole,  of  Ipswich.  He  died  in  1557, 
and  was  succeeded  by  his  son,  John  Brooke,  who  held  the  manor,  and 
died  without  issue.  John  was  succeeded  by  his  brother  and  heir,  George 
Brooke,  who  married  Mary,  daughter  and  heir  of  Edward  Jobson,  of  Doni- 
land,  in  Essex,  and  on  his  death  about  1580  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Edward  Brooke.  He  married  Agnes,  daughter  of  Thomas  Fastolf,  of 
Pettaugh,  and  was  succeeded  by  a  son  and  heir,  Edward,  who  married 
Rebecca  Wiseman,  who  died  I2th  August,  1699,  and  was  buried  at  St. 
Margaret's,  Ipswich.  Edward  Brooke  died  in  1679,  and  was  buried  at 
Aspall,  i2th  Nov.  1679,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John 
Brooke,  who  married  Mary,  daughter  of  George  Green,  of  Athelington,  and 
sold  the  manor  to  Temple  Chevallier  in  1702.  He  died  5th  Dec.  1722,  at 
the  age  of  47,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  cousin,  Clement  Chevallier.  Amongst 
Sir  John  Cullum's  MSS.  is  the  following  note  respecting  Clement  and  his 
family  :  "  This  family  came  from  Jersey,  and  brought  with  them  hither 
the  Spirit  of  Cyder-making.  About  the  house  are  several  acres  of  apple 
trees.  The  stones  of  the  circular  trough  in  which  the  apples  are  bruised 
before  they  are  pressed  were  brought  from  Jersey  ;  one  of  them  is  10  feet 
long.  Date  on  it  1728.  It  was  to  this  gentleman  (Clement  Chavallier) 
that  Bishop  Hoadley  addressed  a  letter  in  1758  concerning  a  forgery  of 
one  Fournier,  who  intended  to  defraud  his  Lordship  of  £8,800.  This 
Fournier  (who  had  been  a  Papist  convert,  and  Curate  in  Jersey)  resided  for 
some  time  at  Debenham  in  the  neighbourhood,  and  after  he  had  been 
most  clearly  convicted  of  the  forgery  continued  to  enjoy  the  countenance 
and  favour  of  his  old  patron  Mr.  C.  Mr.  C's  character  suffered  much  on 
this  account  in  the  opinion  of  the  world ;  but  those  who  knew  him  best 
thought  he  was  only  a  Dupe  of  his  craity  and  knavish  countryman." 

The  writer  has  a  copy  of  this  somewhat  remarkable  letter  to  Clement 
Chevallier.  The  date  is  not  1758,  but  1757.  Fournier  was  clearly  a 
desperate  villain,  and  swore  so  recklessly  that  his  perjury  is  apparent. 
This  man  obtained  signatures  of  Francis  Payne,  Dean  of  Jersey,  probably 
to  some  public  documents,  and  filled  in  above  these  signatures  four  promis- 
sory notes  for  sums  amounting  to  £1,000.  Fournier  began  an  action  on 
these  notes,  and  the  Dean  was  actually  arrested  in  May,  1741.  Upon  the 
Dean  swearing  that  he  owed  Fournier  nothing,  and  that  the  notes  were 
forgeries,  Fournier's  attorney  refused  to  proceed  further,  and  the  action 
was  dropped.  Fournier  then  tried  the  same  process  on  with  Hoadley,  then 
Bishop  of  Winchester,  this  time  employing  a  portion  of  an  envelope  which 
had  been  franked,  writing  a  note  for  £8,800  over  the  signature  of  the  Bishop, 
and  erasing  the  word  "  free,"  which  stood  over  the  signature.  Mr.  Cheval- 
lier supported  the  impostor  and  perjurer  long  after  any  sensible  man  would 
have  discovered  his  true  character.  Like  most  weak  men,  he  was  obstinate, 
and  would  not  listen  to  anything  against  his  countryman  ;  and  when  the 
Bishop  offered  to  give  proof  of  the  rascal's  guilt,  Mr.  Chevallier  replied  : 
"  I  have  had  very  little  experience  in  any  affair  of  importance,  and  therefore 
am  very  unfit  to  have  a  case  stated  to  me  of  so  intricate  a  nature  that  I 
have  heard  men  of  far  better  education  and  learning  than  I  have,  say  that 
they  were  at  a  loss  what  to  say  about,  and  that  it  is  one  of  the  most  extra- 

'Will  24  Nov.  1554. 


220  THE   MANORS   OF   SUFFOLK. 

ordinary  cases  that  they  ever  heard  of."  This,  of  course,  left  him  justly 
open  to  the  Bishop's  retort,  "If  you  had  really  such  an  opinion  of  your 
own  unfitness  to  have  the  case  stated  to  you  by  me,  and  on  my  part,  how 
came  you  to  think  so  well  of  your  fitness  to  have  the  case  on  his  (Fournier's) 
part  stated  to  you  ;  and  even  to  judge  him  to  be  worthy  of  your  patronage, 
which  you  could  not  have  done  without  first  judging  him  to  be  an  innocent, 
injured  man  ?  Was  your  fitness  just  great  enough  to  hear  his  side  of  the 
question  only  ;  and  too  little  for  any  one  fact,  or  evidence  of  a  fact,  on 
the  other  ?  *' 

Clement  Chevallier  died  6th  May,  1762,  at  the  age  of  64,  and  was 
succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  the  Rev.  Temple  Fiske  Chevallier,  who  died 
in  1804,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  widow,  Mary.  To  her  succeeded  her 
son  and  heir,  the  Rev.  Temple  Chevallier,  who  died  in  1816,  when  the 
manor  passed  to  his  brother,  John  Chevallier,  M.D.,  who  died  in  1846.' 
He  was  followed  by  his  widow,  and  ultimately  by  the  Rev.  Charles  Henry 
Chevallier,  Rector  of  Aspall  and  Hon.  Canon  of  Norwich,  who  married  in 
1854  Isabella  Frances,  only  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Francis  Cobbold.  He 
died  in  1885,  leaving  Isabella  Frances,  his  widow,  to  whom  the  manor 
passed,  and  a  son,  John  Harrington  Trapnell  Chevallier,  born  1857. 

Arms  of  Chevallier  :  Arg.  on  a  cross  Gu.  5  escallops  Or. 


'D.N.B.  x.  215. 


BACTON.  221 

B ACTON. 

N  the  time  of  Edward  the  Confessor,  Lewin,  a  freeman  under 
Harold  held  3  carucates  of  land  and  40  acres.  There  were 
17  villeins,  3  bordars,  2  serfs,  and  in  demesne  2  plough- 
teams,  while  there  were  3  belonging  to  the  men.  There 
were  6  acres  of  meadow,  wood  sufficient  to  support  100 
hogs,  9  rounoies,  8  beasts,  60  hogs,  16  sheep,  and  40  goats. 
Also  a  church  with  24  acres,  valued  at  35.  This  land  was 
then  valued  at  £8.  By  Domesday  time  the  value  was  placed  at  £9.  IDS., 
but  there  seems  to  have  been  a  continual  falling  off  in  other  respects.  The 
villeins  from  17  had  come  down  to  8,  but  it  is  true  the  bordars  had  increased 
from  5  to  12,  and  the  serfs  had  gone  up  one,  but  there  was  a  ploughteam 
less  belonging  to  the  men,  the  rouncies  had  come  down  one,  the  hogs  had 
decreased  by  20  and  the  goats  by  4,  while  the  sheep  had  risen  from  16  to 
100.  Besides  this  land,  there  were  80  acres  and  4  bordars  held  in  the 
Confessor's  time  by  40  freemen  under  commendation  to  the  above  Lewin. 
They  had  3  ploughteams,  which  in  Norman  time  was  reduced  to  2,  and  i 
acre  of  meadow.  The  value  had  risen  very  considerably,  for  from  205. 
it  had  gone  up  to  £4.  IDS.  These  lands  were  held  by  Walter  the  Deacon 
as  the  Domesday  tenant  in  chief,  but  the  King  and  the  Earl  had  the  soc. 

It  was  a  league  long  and  4  quarentenes  broad,  and  in  a  gelt  paid  6d.1 
The  lands  subsequently  became  divided  into  two  manors,  the  manor  of 
Bacton  and  the  Manor  of  Horringers. 

MANOR  OF  BACTON. 

The  lordship  of  the  parish  was  in  early  times  part  of  the  possessions 
of  the  Bishop  of  Norwich,  it  apparently  having  been  an  escheat.  In  1235 
Thomas  de  Blumville  or  Blundeville,  then  Bishop  of  Norwich,  gave  to 
Hen.  III.  £100  to  have  this  manor  confirmed  to  his  Bishopric.  In  1239 
William  de  Raleigh  was  lord,  in  1245  Walter  de  Suffield,  in  1258  Simon  de 
Wanton,  and  in  1265  William  de  Middleton,  all  B'shops  of  Norwich,  were 
lords.  In  1281  we  meet  with  a  suit  claiming  that  part  of  the  manor  in  the 
barony  of  the  Bif-hop  of  Norwich  at  South  Elmham,  and  the  residue  in  the 
barony  of  Valonii.2  In  1289  Ralf  de  Walpole  was  lord,  and  in  1299  John 
de  Salmon,  both  being  Bishops  of  Norwich,  and  in  I3i'8  we  find  this  John 
had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here.3  The  following  were  the  lords  during  the 
time  the  manor  was  held  by  the  Bishop  of  Norwich  :  1335,  William  de 
Armine  or  Agrenynne  ;  1337,  Anthony  de  Beck  ;  1344,  William  Bateman  ; 
1356,  Thomas  Percy  ;  1370,  Henry  Despencer  ;  1407,  Alexander  de  Totting- 
ton  died  28th  April,  1413  ;  1413,  First  Court  of  Richard  Courtney,  Bishop 
of  Norwich,  died  i5th  Sept.  1415  ;  1415,  the  King  during  vacancy  by  Henry 
of  Winton,  Bishop  ;  1416,  Aug.,  John  Wakeryngg,  Bishop  of  Norwich,  first 
court,  died  gth  April,  1425 ;  1424,  the  King  by  the  Duke  of  Exeter;  1426, 
William  Alnewyk,  Bishop  of  Norwich,  Aug.,  first  court  ;4  1438,  Thomas 
Broune,  Bishop  of  Norwich,  Feb.,  first  court,  by  Papal  Bull,  diefd  6th 
Dec.  1445  ;  1445,  Walter  le  Herle,  Bishop  of  Norwich,  first  court,  by  Papal 
Bull,  Jan.  1445,  died  1472  ;  1472,  the  King,  by  keepers  of  the  temporalities ; 
1473,  James  Goldwell,  Bishop  of  Norwich,  first  court,  until  1498,  by  Papal 
Bull ;  1499,  Thomas  Jane,  Bishop  of  Norwich,  died  Feb.  1499,  first  court 

'  Dom.  ii.  4266.  4Bp.  by  Papal  Bull,  27  Feb.  1426.    Trans- 

2Abbr.  of  PL,  Q-IO  Edw.  I.  7.  lated  to  Lincoln  19  Sept.  1436. 

3  Chart.  Rolls,  12  Edw.  II.  58. 


323  THE  MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

October  ;    1500,  the  King,  i8th  October  ;    1501,  Richard  Nykke  or  Nix, 
Bishop  of  Norwich,  first  court  July,  died  Jan.  1536. 

Page  informs  us  that  in  the  i6th  of  Edw.  IV.,  Sir  Edward  Hungerford, 
John  Heydon,  and  Humphrey  Forster,  released  by  deed  to  John  de  la 
Pole,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  and  Elizabeth,  his  wife,  William  Hastings,  Robert 
Chamberlain,  and  others  to  the  use  of  the  said  Duke  and  Duchess,  the  lord- 
ship of  this  parish,  Frostenden,  and  Greeting  St.  Olave's,  which  the  said  Sir 
Edward,  &c.,  stood  seised  of,  to  the  use  of  William  de  la  Pole,  late  Duke  of 
Suffolk,  and  the  lady  Alice,  his  wife,  deceased.  And  further  that  on  the 
attainder  of  Edmund  de  la  Pole,  Earl  of  Suffolk,  in  1513  these  estates  became 
forfeited  to  the  crown.  Unfortunately,  Page  gives  no  authority  for  this 
statement.  The  manor  would  seem  to  have  continued  with  the  Bishops  of 
Norwich  until  1535,  when  Bishop  Nix,  having  incurred  a  praemunire, 
the  possessions  of  the  Bishopric  were  forfeited  to  the  Crown,  and  this  manor 
was  by  Act  of  Parliament'  given  to  the  King. 

The  manor  was  granted  in  1535  by  the  Crown  to  Charles,  Duke  of 
Suffolk,  who  held  his  first  court  2Oth  June,  1536.  In  1539  &  was  agam  in 
the  Crown,  and  Hen.  VIII.  held  a  court  2Qth  Sept.  1539,  and  Edw.  VI.  his 
first  court  in  June,  1547.  Anne  of  Cleves  was  lady  of  the  manor  in  1553, 
holding  her  first  court  i7th  May  that  year,  and  in  1557,  Philip  and  Mary 
held  their  first  court  gih  Sept.  after  Anne  of  Cleves'  death.  In  1558  Queen 
Elizabeth  held  her  first  court,  and  by  Letters  Patent  I5th  Feb.  1560  granted 
the  manor  to  Thomas,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  and  he  the  same  year  (igth  Sept.) 
conveyed  it  to  Sir  John  Tyrrell,  of  Gipping,  and  his  son,  John  Tyrrell,  in 
exchange.  From  Sir  John  Tyrrell  the  manor,  1565 ,  passed  to  Lord  Wentworth 
and  others  as  trustees,  ultimately  in  1573  vesting  in  Sir  John's  son  and  heir, 
Sir  John  Tyrrell/  who  in  1586  sold  the  manor  to  William  Pretyman  (son  of 
Thomas  Pretyman,  of  Cotton,  lord  of  Boys,  in  Bacton),3  who  held  his  first 
court  28th  March,  1587."  William  Pretyman  married  ist  Feb.  1562  Ann, 
daughter  of  John  Howe,  of  Stowmarket,  and  2ndly  Katherine  of  Witchen- 
ham  Magna,  co.  Norfolk,  and  died  in  Sept.  1594, 5  when  the  manor  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John  Pretyman,  who  held  his  first  court  2nd  Oct. 
1595.  There  was  an  action  in  Chancery  in  the  time  of  Elizabeth,  brought 
by  Katherine  Pretyman  against  John  Pretyman,  as  to  the  will  of  William 
Pretyman,  father  of  the  defendant,  by  which  he  devised  lands  in  Bacton, 
Thornham  Magna,  Gislingham,  Cotton,  Wickham,  Finningham,  and  New- 
ton.6 The  manor  was  in  1597  for  the  period  of  about  a  year,  held  by  Sir 
Robert  Drury,  of  Rougham,  the  father-in-law  of  Sir  John  Pretyman,  his 
ist  wife  having  been  Dorothy,  Sir  Robert's  fourth  daughter.  Sir  John's 
2nd  wife  was  Mary,  daughter  of  Sir  Wm.  Bourchier,  of  Barnsley,  co. 
Gloucester. 

Sir  John  having  removed  to  Driffield  Abbey  in  Gloucestershire,  sold  the 
manor  by  deed  dated  25th  Oct.  1636  to  Henry  Pretyman,  son  of  Thomas 
Pretyman,  of  Bacton.  He  married  Mary,  daughter  of  Richard  Pretyman, 
of  Bacton,  and  died  in  Feb.  1666,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  John  Pretyman,  who  married  ist  Catherine,  daughter  of  Almott 
Clenche,  of  Gt.  Bealings,  and  2ndly,  Anne,  daughter  of  John  Brames,  and 
died  in  1678,  when  the  manor  vested  in  his  son  Henry,  who  married  Mary, 
daughter  of  Sir  John  Sedley,  of  St.  Clere,  Kent,  Bart.,  and  sold  the  estate  to 

'27  Hen.  VIII.  Feb.  4The  purchase  was  effected  by  deed  dated 

'See  Gipping  Manor,  in  Stow  Hundred,  12  Nov.  28  Eliz. 

'Fine,  Mich.  28-29  Eliz.  5  Will  i3th  Sep.  1594.  I.P.M.  37  Eliz. 

6C.P.  ii.  303. 


BACTON.  223 

George  Pretyman,  of  the  elder  branch  of  the  family,  3oth  April,  1703. 
George  Pretyman  held  his  first  court  this  year.  He  married  Elizabeth 
daughter  and  coheir  of  Edward  Garneys,  of  Redisham  Hall,  and  died  3rd 
Sept.  1727,'  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  George  Pretyman. 
He  married  Jane,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Rev.  John  Pistor,  Rector  of 
Cleydon.  He  rebuilt  Bacton  manor  house  on  its  present  site,  and  died 
i5th  Feb.  I7323  (the  inscription  on  his  tomb  says  i5th  March),  when 
the  manor  went  to  his  widow  Jane,  who  this  year  held  her  first  court. 
She  survived  until  6th  Aug.  1738,  but  in  1736  the  manor  appears  to 
have  been  vested  in  Baron  Pretyman,  son  and  heir  of  the  last-mentioned 
George  Pretyman.  He  was  High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk  in  1741  and 
apparently  dissipated  the  family  fortune.  He  married  Arabella,  only 
child  of  Maurice  Shelton,  of  Barningham,  widow  of  Thomas  Taylor,  of 
Westhorpe,  and  died  I5th  Feb.  I758,3  without  issue,  when  the  manor  passed 
to  his  cousin  and  heir  at  law,  George  Pretyman,  son  and  heir  of  Peter, 
brother  of  George  Pretyman  who  had  died  in  1732.  He  married  Susan, 
daughter  of  John  Hubbard,  of  Finningham.  He  was  Alderman  and  Chief 
Magistrate  of  Bury  in  1773.  Amongst  the  Cullum  MSS.is  the  following 
curious  note  respecting  this  George  Pretyman  :  "  Being  in  company  nth 
Jan.  1805,  with  George  Pretyman  Esq.,  he  told  me  that  being  a  weakly 
child  and  when  three  years  old  he  was  so  extremely  ill  that  one  day  he 
was  supposed  to  be  dead,  and  the  tolling  bell  was  passed  for  him  in  the 
Parish  of  St.  Michael,  Bai-inghall  Street,  London.  The  nur?e,  in  going 
backward  and  forwards  through  the  room  where  he  was  laid  out,  observed 
that  the  child  moved  one  of  his  arms ;  upon  this  warm  flannels  and  other 
means  were  used,  and  the  young  one  recovered,  and  has  lived  to  be  the 
father  of  a  Bishop,  and  is  at  this  time  in  his  84th  year  of  his  age  in  good 
health  and  spirits.  F.  G.  C."  George  Pretyman  lived  five  years  after  this 
note  was  made,  and  was  buried  at  Finningham,  I4th  Dec.  1810,  when  the 
manor  devolved  in  his  son  and  heir,  George  Pretyman,  Bishop  of  Lincoln, 
who  held  his  first  court  in  1810.  The  Bishop  was  born  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds 
in  1750,  and  received  his  education  at  the  Grammar  School  of  that  town. 
He  occupied  the  position  of  tutor  to  Mr.  Pitt,  at  Pembroke  College,  Cam- 
bridge, and  when  Mr.  Pitt  became  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  in  1782 
George  Pretyman,  as  he  then  was,  resided  constantly  with  him  until  the 
former's  marriage  two  years  later,  not,  as  sometimes  asserted,  as  private 
secretary,  but  as  a  confidential  friend.  It  is  well  known  that  when  the  See 
of  Canterbury  became  vacant  in  1805,  Mr.  Pitt  recommended  the  Bishop  of 
Lincoln  to  the  King  for  that  important  station,  but  his  Majesty  had  pre- 
determined to  appoint  Dr.  Manners  Sutton,  Bishop  of  Norwich  and  Dean 
of  Windsor,  to  the  Primacy.  The  Bishop  of  Lincoln  married,  3rd  Sept. 
1784,  Elizabeth,  elder  daughter  and  co-heir  of  Thomas  Maltby,  of  Germains, 
co.  Buckingham.  The  Bishop  in  1803  assumed  the  additional  surname  of 
Tomline,  in  compliance  with  the  testamentary  injunctions  of  Marmaduke 
Tomline  of  Riby  Grove,  co.  Lincoln,  who  without  any  alliance  whatever 
bequeathed  to  the  Bishop  a  large  landed  property.  The  Bishop  is  styled 
"  Sir  George  Pretyman-Tomline,  Bart.,"  the  title  having  been  assumedin  1823 
in  consequence  of  a  decision  of  a  jury  at  Haddington,  which  found  the 
Bishop  "  heir  male  in  general  of  Sir  Thomas  Pretyman,  Baronet  of  Greenes 
Farme,  Line.,  who  died  about  the  middle  of  the  i8th  century,  and  his  lordship 
also  established  his  right  to  the  ancient  baronetcy  of  Nova  Scotia,  conferred 

1  Will  12  Aug.  1727,  proved  25  Jan.  1728.        3  Will  8  Mar.  1757. 
'Will  2  Jan.  1732,  proved  5  May,  1733. 


224  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

by  Charles  the  First  on  Sir  John  Pretyman  of  Loddington,  the  male  ancestor 
of  Sir  Thomas.'"  He  died  i4th  Nov.  1827,'  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son 
and  heir,  William  Edward  Tomline,  F.R.S.,  M.P.  for  Truro,  who  held  his 
first  court  in  1827,  and  married  i8th  April,  i8r.i.Erances,  daughter  and  heir 
of  John  Amler,  of  Ford  Hall,  co.  Salop.  He  died  28th  May,  1836,  when 
the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Col.  George  Tomline,  R.A.,  of  Orwell 
Park  and  Riby  Hall,  High  Sheriff  for  Suffolk  in  1832,  for  Lincolnshire  in 
1852,  M.P.  for  Sudbury  1840  to  1841,  for  Shrewsbury  from  1841  to  1847  and 
1852  to  1868,  and  for  Great  Grimsby  from  1868  to  1874.  On  his  death 
unmarried,  25th  Aug.  1889,  the  manor  passed  under  his  will,  May,  1889, 
to  his  cousin,  Captain  Ernest  George  Pretyman,  R.A.,  of  Orwell  Park  and 
Riby  Grove,  M.P.  for  Woodbridge  (son  of  the  Rev.  Frederick  Pretyman, 
Canon  of  Lincoln,  and  Georgina  Elizabeth,  his  wife,  daughter  of  Edward 
Knight,  of  Chawton  House,  Hants,  and  Godmersham  Park,  Kent,  D.L., 
which  Frederick  was  son  of  the  Rev.  George  Thomas  Pretyman,  Chancellor 
and  Canon  Resid.  of  Lincoln,  and  Amelia,  his  wife,  daughter  of  Christopher 
Tower,  of  \Yeald  Hall,  Co.  Essex,  which  George  Thomas  was  the  brother 
of  William  Edward  Tomline,  father  of  George  Tomline  who  died  in  1889), 
who  is  the  present  lord.  He  married,  28th  June,  1894,  Lady  Beatrice 
Adine,  eldest  daughter  of  the  Right  Hon.  George  Cecil  Orlando  Bridgeman, 
4th  Earl  of  Bradford,  and  with  other  issue  has  a  son,  George  Marcus 
Tomline  Pretyman,  born  23rd  April,  1895. 

The  Custom  of  this  manor  is  to  the  youngest  son,  or  Borough  English, 
that  is,  all  copyhold  land  owned  by  his  father  at  his  death  intestate  and 
not  otherwise  determined  by  surrender  during  his  lifetime  goes  to  the 
youngest  son,  whilst  on  the  other  hand  all  free  lands  held  by  "  free  socage," 
passes  as  of  right  to  the  eldest  son.  The  Leet  Fine  was  at  the  disposal  of 
the  lord.  The  tenement  of  any  copyholder  at  each  death  was(in  early  days) 
heriotable  by  the  best  beast,  and  the  heir  took  his  inheritance  by  fine,  and 
"  held  it  by  the  rod  at  the  will  of  the  lord."  An  heir  was  of  full  age  at  15 
years,  and  was  fined  if  he  did  not  attend  courts.  The  widow  of  the  copy- 
holder during  the  minority  of  the  heir  was  his  guardian  by  custom.  The 
lord  has  right  of  gallows  and  stocks,  view  of  frankpledge,  Leet  and  Baron 
Courts,  right  to  all  waifs  and  strays,  and  had  assize  of  bread  and  beer,freedom 
of  entry  of  King's  officers  within  the  bounds  of  the  Manor;  also  a  Coroner 
and  Prison.  By  an  arrangement  made  in  1566  between  the  lord  and  the 
copyholders,  the  latter  were  empowered  to  cut  down  timber  of  every  kind 
growing  in  the  tenant's  copyhold  without  the  licence  of  the  lord  being 
necessary.  The  quit  rent  on  succession  or  on  new  ownership  was  then 
fixed  at  2.J-,  and  copyhold  tenure  fixed  in  its  ownership. 

The  Bacton  Court  Rolls  still  in  existence  are  in  384  membrances. 
Up  to  the  death  of  King  Charles  I.  they  are  as  follows  :  20  membrances 
t.  Hen.  V.,  74  /.  Hen.  VI.,  28  t.  Edw.  IV.,  35  Hen.  VII.,  35  Hen.  VIII. 
(i  Edw.  VI.),  5  Philip  and  Mary,  68  t.  Eliz.,  51 1.  James  I. ,36*.  of  Charles  I. 
A  Bacton  Roll  of  the  gth  Hen.  VIII.  was  known  to  exist  in  the  Suffolk 
bags  amongst  the  Miscellanea  at  the  Chapter  House. 

BOYS  OR  HORINGER'S  MANOR. 

It  is  mentioned  in  the  Great  Survey  as  80  acres  of  land  held  time  of 
Edward  the  Confessor  by  Lewin,  a  freeman  of  Harold's,  and  was  no  doubt  a 

1  Gent.  Mag.  1828, 1,202;  Notes  and  Queries,         *  Will  pr.  Nov.  1827. 
3rd  series,  xii.  421,  E.A.N.  &  Q. 
(N.S.)  vol.  i,  209. 


BACTON.  225 

parcel  of  the  main  manor  of  Bacton.  The  manor  was  held  in  the  early 
part  of  the  i3th  century  by  the  family  of  de  Bois  al.  Bosco  or  Boys  or  Du 
Bois.  Sir  Robert  de  Bois,  son  of  Sir  William  de  Bois  of  Fersfield,  Norfolk, 
was  the  first  of  the  family  apparently  owning  land  in  Bacton.  A  certain 
Sir  Robert  de  Du  Bois  held  the  manor  in  1256  from  his  niece  Joan  and  her 
husband,  William  de  Bovile.  The  Manor  continued  in  the  family  until 
its  extinction  in  the  person  of  Alice,  heiress  of  Sir  Robert  de  Bois  (who  died 
in  1311),  in  1371,  though  a  Roger  de  Boys  is  mentioned  from  1371  to  1383, 
as  also  a  John  Bous.  A  few  years  later,  towards  the  close  of  the  I4th  century, 
we  find  the  manor  vested  in  John  Honningsherth  or  Hornyngeshierth,  of 
Bacton,  who  is  mentioned  in  the  Patent  Rolls  of  the  igth  year  of  Edw. 
III.1  A  subsequent  John  Honingsherth  held  the  manor  and  died  in  1456,* 
when  he  is  said  to  have  left  it  to  his  brother,  Thomas  "  Horningserth,"  who, 
dying  in  1464,  left  it  to  Richard  Dryver,  who  sold  it  to  Sir  James  Hobart, 
Chief  Steward  of  Bacton  Manor  (who  left  it  in  1473  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Robert  Hobart).  Sir  James  Hobbart  (another  Chief  Steward  of  Bacton 
Manor)  died  24th  Feb.  I5i6/  leaving  this  manor  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir 
Walter  Hobart.  He  settled  this  manor  on  his  son  and  heir,  Henry  Hobart. 
Sir  Walter  died  27th  Nov.  1538,*  and  was  succeeded  by  the  said  Henry 
Hobart,  accordingly. 

He  was  lord  in  1550,  and  sold  the  manor  to  Thomas  Pretyman  of  Cotton 
and  Needham,  co.  Norf.,  whose  ist  wife  was  Alice  Tyrrell,  and  whose  2nd 
was  Margaret  Clerk,  of  Needham.  He  died  in  I563,5  and  left  the  manor  by 
his  will  to  his  eldest  son,  William  Pretyman.6  The  death  of  Thomas 
Pretyman  is  presented  by  the  Jury  at  a  court  held  at  Bacton,  i4th  March, 
7th  Eliz.,  thus  "  said  Thomas  also  held  of  this  manor  one  tenement  called 
'  Boyes '  of  80  acres  of  wood  and  pasture  in  Bacton  by  Knight's  Service 
and  for  the  Ward  of  the  Castle  (Norwich),  and  that  William  Pretyman  is  his 
son  and  next  heir  and  of  full  age." 

In  the  Rental  of  Bacton  Manor,  1565,15  this  entry:  "  Ter  lib.  William 
Pretyman  for  the  tenement  Boyes  of  80  acres  free  land  late  of  Henry 
Hubbards  and  formerly  of  John  Horngzerths  by  Socage,  and  yearly  of 
one  pound  of  Gumming  "  (seed). 

William  Pretyman  wrote  out  his  own  rent  roll  on  a  piece  of  paper  some 
six  feet  long  (now  at  Orwell  Park),  and  in  it  he  gives  his  field  notes  for  his 
property  of  Boys,  which  he  estimates  at  85  acres,  and  which  lay  on  the  con- 
fines, if  not  in,  the  parish  of  Wetherden,  and  adjoined  the  Manor  ot 
Haughley.  It  was  this  William  Pretyman  who  afterwards  acquired  the 
Manor  of  Bacton  by  deed  dated  I2th  Nov.  28  Eliz.,  and  Newhall  in  Braise- 
worth,  1586,  which  manors,  with  Boys,  have  remained  in  the  Pretyman 
family  up  to  the  present  time,  and  are  now  owned  by  Capt.  Ernest  George 
Pretyman,  of  Orwell  Park.7 

The  Manor  of  Boys  consisted  of  about  85  acres. 

Bodesdale  is  a  hamlet  of  Redgrave,  and  with  it  the  lordship  of  Botesdale 
has  always  passed. 

'  Pat.  Rolls,  19  Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  id.  (1345).  4See  Oulton  Manor,  Lothingland  Hundred. 

2  His   will  is    dated    1456,  and   he  died  5Will  10  Dec.  1561,  proved  1563. 

shortly  afterwards,  and  is  said  by  6P.C.C.  23  Chayre,  "My  manor  of  Boyes 

some  to   have  been  succeeded   in  in  Suffolk  to  William  my  son." 

the  lordship   by  his  son    William  7From    notes   supplied    by    Mr.    William 

Horningsurth.  Pretyman,    of    Bournemouth,    and 

3 1.P.M.,  9  Hen.  VIII.  25.  Muskett's  Manorial  Families,  vol.  ii. 

El 


226  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

BRAISEWORTH. 

LVEVA  held  this  manor  in  Saxon  times,  and  had  the  soc 
under  Stigand.  It  consisted  of  Go  acres  and  i  villein,  i 
ploughteam,  4  acres  of  meadow,  and  a  mill.  Also  half  a 
church  and  17  acres,  with  half  a  ploughteam,  4  beasts,  and 
7  hogs.  The  value  was  155.,  and  it  formed  part  of  the 
great  possessions  of  Robert  Malet.  In  the  valuation  above 
was  included  a  freeman  in  Braiseworth  holding  3  acres 
under  Malet.  Malet  also  held  140  acres  and  i  bordar,  with  3  ploughteams 
(where  there  had  formerly  been  4),  i  acre  of  meadow,  and  half  a  church  with 
15  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  305.,  which  had  formerly  belonged 
to  15  freemen,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  the  Earl.  This  was  6 
quarentenes  long  and  5  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  gd. 

Another  small  manor  which  had  been  in  Saxon  times  held  by  Alestan, 
a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Ulveva,  with  30  acres,  also  formed  part 
of  the  Malet  possessions.  There  were  in  it  i  ploughteam  and  i  acre  of 
meadow,  and  the  value  was  55.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  the  Earl. 
Of  both  these  manors  Robert  Malet  was  the  Domesday  tenant  in  chief, 
and  he  also  had  4  other  small  holdings  here.  One  was  of  38  acres,  formerly 
held  by  4  freemen  under  commendation  to  Edric,  when  it  had  a  ploughteam 
and  a  half,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  had  only  one  team.  The  value 
was  75.  6d.,  and  the  King  of  the  Earl  had  the  soc. 

A  second  was  of  17  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  35.,  formerly 
held  by  3  freemen  under  Edric's  commendation. 

The  third  was  of  5  acres  valued  at  I2d.,  of  which  the  King  and  the 
Earl  had  the  soc,  formerly  held  by  8  freemen. 

The  fourth  was  of  20  acres,  valued  at  55.,  of  which  the  King  and  the 
Earl  had  the  soc,  formerly  held  with  half  a  ploughteam  by  Brichtmar 
Bubba,  a  freeman  under  Harold.1  The  two  manors  here  became  subsequently 
known  as  Braiseworth  Old  Hall,  and  New  Hall  with  Barnes. 

MANOR  OF  OLD  HALL. 

This  was  the  manor  of  Ulveva  before  the  Conquest,  and  in  the  time  of 
the  Conqueror  was  held  by  Geoffrey  de  Braiseworth,  and  in  the  time  of 
Hen.  I.  by  Geoffrey's  son,  Giles  de  Braiseworth,  from  whom  it  passed  in 
the  same  reign  to  Sir  Robert  de  Sackville,  one  of  Malet' s  knights,  being  held 
of  the  Honor  of  Eye. 

He  was  the  third  son  of  Herbrand  de  Salchevilla,  who  came  over 
with  the  Conqueror,  and  who  is  ranked  in  old  MSS.  as  the  seventh  great 
military  officer  who  attended  William  the  Conqueror  in  his  invasion  of  this 
country.  This  Robert's  descendants  continued  the  male  line  in  this 
county.  He  is  called  Robertus  de  Salkevilla  in  a  charter  to  which  he  was 
first  witness,  granted  by  King  Stephen,  when  Earl  of  Moretaign,  by  which  he 
gave  the  church  of  Lillechurch  to  the  monks  of  St.  John  of  Colchester. 
This  probably  was  the  Robert  de  Sackville  who,  with  another  knight, 
called  Walter  according  to  Ordericus  Vitalis,  was  saved  by  sudden  indis- 
position which  the  Earl  contracted  after  he  was  on  board  ship  on  his  way 
to  England,  and  which  obliged  him  to  return  to  shore  attended  by  these 
two  knights,  from  the  fate  which  befel  them  who  did  sail,  the  vessel  being 
lost  and  all  save  one  on  board  perishing.  It  appears  that  in  1219  Sir  Robert 
held  several  manors  in  Essex,  and  those  of  Rishangles,  Witham,  Mellis, 
Clopton,  Braiseworth,  Cotton,  Brockford,  Rudham,  Fornham, "  Faltham," 

1  Dom.  ii.  320&,  321,  3236. 


BRAISEWORTH.  227 

and  Wickham,  in  Suffolk,  by  the  service  of  one  knight's  fee  of  the  Honor  of 
Eye,  and  was  also  seised  of  another  fee  in  Mendham  in  the  same  county,  as  a 
plea  in  the  I2th  of  Hen.  III.  shows.  It  is  impossible,  however,  that  he 
could  be  the  Robert  Sackville  who  is  mentioned  in  an  old  ballad  as  attending 
Rich.  I.  in  his  expedition  to  the  Holy  Land,  because  this  Robert  appears 
from  the  book  of  the  abbey  of  Colchester  to  have  professed  himself  a  monk 
in  the  monastery  of  St.  John  there  in  the  time  of  King  Stephen.  He  granted 
to  these  monks  his  Manor  of  Wickham  by  the  advice  of  the  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury  and  the  Bishops  of  London  and  Norwich.  The  witnesses  to  this 
charter  are  Eustace,  King  Stephen's  son,  Ingellus  the  Chancellor,  and 
Jordan  and  Stephen,  two  of  Sir  Robert's  sons.  Besides  the  two  last- 
mentioned  sons,  he  had  by  Lettice,  daughter  of  Sir  Henry  Woodville,  two 
other  sons,  Nigel  and  Helias  Sackville.  Nigel  is  remarkable  in  history  for 
having  been,  though  a  person  of  great  consideration  and  incumbent  of  the 
Church  of  Berges,  1171,  excommunicated  by  Thomas  a  Becket,  Archbishop 
of  Canterbury,  on  pretence  of  his  having  unjustly  detained  a  manor  belonging 
to  that  See,  and  Helias  de  Sackville  is  witness  to  the  Earl  of  Clare's  grant  of 
the  Church  of  Tunbridge  to  the  monks  of  Lewes.  But  the  case  of  the 
excommunication  has  been  wretchedly  misrepresented  by  most  historians. 
William  Fitz-Stephens,  who  lived  at  that  time,  and  who  wrote  the  life  of 
Thomas  4  Becket,  and  therefore  not  likely  to  be  mistaken  as  to  the  facts, 
informs  us  "  that  two  of  the  Sackvilles  were  excommunicated  on  that 
occasion,  Robert  and  Nigel ;  and  that  they  were  regis  sigilliferi,"  an  office, 
which,  we  presume,  may  correspond  with  that  of  the  lord  privy  seal  of  later 
days.  The  same  Fitz-Stephens  tells  us  that  "  they  died  soon  after  in  the 
flower  of  their  age,"  and  by  their  both  being  called  Keepers  of  the  Seal, 
it  appears  as  if  the  office  had  been  hereditary  in  the  family  or  held  in  com- 
mission. Jordan,  the  eldest  son  of  Robert  de  Sackville,  who  probably 
entered  into  possession  of  the  manor  and  other  estates  when  his  father 
retired  from  the  world,  is  called  in  a  charter  by  which  he  confirms  the 
grant  made  by  his  father  to  the  monks  of  Colchester,  and  adds  others  of 
his  own,  "  Jordanus  de  Saukevil  Miles,  baro  de  Bergholt  Saukevil,  filius 
et  haeres  Roberti  Saukevil."  His  wife  brought  a  great  accession  of  fortune 
and  honour  to  the  family.  Her  name  was  Ela  or  Hela,  and  she  was  daughter 
and  coheir  of  Ralph  de  Den,  lord  of  the  Manor  of  Buckhurst,  whose  father 
was  Robert,  living  in  the  2oth  year  of  William  the  Conqueror,  and  then 
denominated  Pincerna  or  the  Butler.  At  the  time  of  her  marriage  her 
father  bestowed  with  her  a  hide  of  land  in  Waldene,  with  the  advowson 
of  the  church  and  common  of  pasture  in  Sudpark,  near  Chalventure,  and  other 
lands.  When  this  Ela  became  coheir  to  her  father,  she  brought  to  the  Sack- 
villes the  manors  of  Buckhurst,  Claverham,  Briggeley,  Horsey,  and  Ombe- 
ford,  which  were  parcels  of  six  knight's  fees  held  by  Robert  Pincerna  in 
Chalventure.  Upon  the  death  of  her  husband  Jordan  de  Sackville,  being 
a  widow,  she  gave  licence  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Otteham  to  translate 
their  convent  to  Bageham,  both  in  Kent ;  and  she  not  only  confirmed  all 
the  lands  which  had  been  given  them  by  her  father  and  her  brother  Robert, 
but  added  some  considerable  gifts  of  her  own,  her  son,  Jeffery  de  Sackville 
being  a  witness  to  the  grants.  The  church  of  Bageham  was  till  the  reign 
of  Hen.  II.  the  burying  place  of  the  Sackville  family,  and  was  dedicated 
to  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary. 

In  the  time  of  Edw.  I.  the  manor  was  vested  in  Sir  George  de  Thorpe, 
who  had  free  warren  here  in  the  time  of  King  Edw.  II.1 

'Chart.  Rolls,  9  Edw.  II,  20. 


228  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

His  daughter  Alice  married  Sir  Simon  de  Felbriggs.  His  grandson, 
Sir  Simon  de  Felbriggs,  who  was  standard  bearer  to  Rich.  II.,  left  to  Alanor 
or  Helene,  his  second  daughter,  this  estate.  She  married  ist  Sir  William 
Tyndale,  of  Deom,  in  Northamptonshke,  and  in  1431  was  the  wife  of  Sir 
Thomas  de  Wanton.  On  the  death  of  Alanor  the  manor  passed  to  her  son 
and  heir,  Thomas  Tendale.  He  married  Margaret,  daughter  of  Sir  William 
Yelverton,  C.J.,  of  the  King's  Bench,  1471,  and  on  his  death  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  William  Tindale,  K.B.,  who  married  Mary, 
daughter  and  heir  of  Egbert  Montford  or  Mundeford,  of  Hockwold,  and  on 
his  death  in  1497  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John  Tindale,  who  married 
Amphrelicia,  daughter  of  Humphrey  Coningsby,  one  of  the  Justices  of 
the  King's  Bench  in  1510.  Amongst  the  Early  Chancery  Proceedings  we 
find  an  action  as  to  waste  done  in  this  manor.  It  was  brought  by  Will. 
Tindale  (Tyndale),  son  of  Thomas,  son  of  "  Alana,"  daughter  of  Sir  Simon 
Felbrigge  Knt.,  against  Godfrey  Joy,  Will.  Clyflond,  John  Trayvell,  and 
Augustine  Boys,  executors  of  Dame  Katherine,  late  wife  of  the  said  Sir 
Simon.1 

A  fine  of  the  manor  was  levied  in  1523  by  Richard  Belamey  and  others 
against  John  Tyndale  and  others.* 

The  manor  then  passed  to  Christopher  Playters,  who  died  nth  Sept. 
I547»3  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Playters.  A  little  later 
we  find  the  manor  vested  in  Alexander  Newton,  who  married  Anne,  the 
daughter  of  Sir  Humphrey  Wingfield,  Knt.,  and  died  in  1569. 

There  is  a  sepulchral  brass  to  his  memory  in  the  Church  of  Braiseworth,4 
an  etching  of  which  is  given  in  Cotman's  "  Suffolk  Brasses." 

In  1576  a  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  and  the  manors  of  Newhall  and 
Barneys  by  Thomas  Gawdye  against  John  Rochester  and  others,5  and  the 
following  year  we  meet  with  a  fine  of  this  manor  and  of  Newhall  Manor 
levied  by  Anne  Warner,  widow,  against  Henry  Ferrour,  and  others.6 

In  1609  the  manor  was  vested  in  William  Coleman,  who  married 
Catherine,  daughter  of  Edmund  Bacon,  of  Hessett.  William  Coleman's 
daughter  Eliza  married  Robert,  eldest  son  of  John  Green,  of  King's  Lynn, 
Norfolk,  by  whom  he  had  Elizabeth,  Katherine,  and  Susan,  his  coheirs. 
Robert  Green  died  in  1640,  and  was  buried  in  the  parish  church  of  Braise- 
worth,  and  William  Coleman  died  in  1643.  The  lordship  subsequently 
vested  in  Earl  Cornwallis,  created  Marquis,  who  died  in  1805,  when  it 
passed  to  his  son  Charles,  2nd  Marquis  Cornwallis,  who  died  in  1823. 

In  1825  the  manor  was  purchased  by  Matthias  Kerrison,  of  Hoxne 
Hall  and  Breckles  Hall,  Norfolk,  and  on  his  death  in  1827  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Sir  Edward  Kerrison,  Bart.  From  this  time  to  the  present  the 
manor  has  devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Thelnetham,  in 
Blackbourn  Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  \Villiam  Spencer,  Lord  Bateman, 
3rd  Baron,  of  Breckles  Hall,  Norfolk. 

Arms  of  SACKVILLE  :  Quarterly,  Or,  and  Gules,  a  bend  wavy.  Of 
TINDALE  :  Argent,  on  a  fesse  Gu.  betw.  3  garbs,  Sa.,  a  martlet. 

MANOR  OF  NEW  HALL. 

The  full  title  of  this  manor  seems  to  have  been  in  early  days  "  Bresu- 
neth  Nova  Auk  in  Veteri  Bacton,"  but  in  the  reign  of  Edw.  IV.  "  Brese- 

'E.C.P.,  5  Edw.  IV.— 49  Hen.  VI.,  Bundle  4Add.  32483,  32490;    I.P.M.,  12  Eliz.  x, 

31,  190.  85. 

•Fine,  Mich.  15  Hen.  VIII.  'Fine,  Mich.  18-19  Eliz. 

'I.P.M.,  2  Edw.  VI.  66.  "Fine,  Easter,  19  Eliz. 


BRAISEWORTH.  229 

worth  "  only.  This  was  the  lordship  of  Alestan  before  the  Conquest,  and 
of  Robert  Malet  at  the  time  of  the  Domesday  Survey.  In  1268  it  was 
vested  in  William  le  Parker,  and  this  year  we  meet  with  a  fine  of  the  manor 
levied  by  Hubert,  son  of  William  de  Bysewrth,  against  Robert,  son  of 
John  and  Matilda  his  wife,  and  the  said  William  le  Parker  and  Margery 
his  wife.1  Another  William  Parker  held  here  in  1316. 2 

In  the  time  of  Hen.  VI.  the  manor  was  vested  in  Thomas  Tengaine 
or  Dengaine,  and  later  in  John  Dengaine,  son  and  heir  of  Alice  Dengaine. 
In  1478  it  was  vested  in  Henry  Everard  and  Nicholas  Parker,  and  in  the  time 
of  Queen  Elizabeth  in  Alexander  Newton,  who  died  seised  3oth  Aug. 
1569,  and  on  his  death  passed  to  his  widow  Anne,  the  daughter  of  Sir 
Humphrey  Wingfield,  who  remarried  Robert  Warner,  and  they  held  a  court 
I3th  Elizabeth.  By  1586  the  manor  had  passed  to  W'illiam  Pretyman,3 
who  held  his  first  court  28th  Sept.  this  year.  He  held  other  courts  in  1587, 
3rd  April  and  I4th  Aug. ;  1589 ;  !7thFeb. ;  35  Eliz.  27thMar.  He  diedin  Sept. 
1594,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son,  Sir  John  Pretyman,  who  on  5th  Oct.  1624, 
held  a  court.4  Sir  John  Pretyman  sold  the  manor  in  1636  to  Henry  Pretyman 
from  whom  it  passed  like  the  Manor  of  Bacton,  to  his  son  and  heir,  John 
Pretyman,  and  on  his  death  in  1678  vested  in  his  son  and  heir,  Henry 
Pretyman,  who  sold  the  same  to  George  Pretyman  in  1703.  On  his  death 
in  1727  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  George,  and  from  him  in  1732 
to  his  son  and  heir,  Baron  Pretyman,  who  died  unmarried  I5th  Feb.  1758. 
Subsequently  the  manor  seems  to  have  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the 
Manor  of  Old  Hall,  and  is  now  vested,  as  is  that  manor,  in  Lord  Bateman. 
The  manor  is  specifically  mentioned  in  a  fine  levied  in  1576  by  Thomas 
Gawdye  against  John  Rochester  and  others.5  A  fine  was  levied  of  this 
manor  in  1587  by  William  Pretyman,  sen.,  against  Alexander  Huggen 
and  others.6 

In  1653  a  rental  on  the  court  rolls  is  headed,  "  Bresworth  New  Hall 
cum  Horringer,"  and  a  Court  Roll  8th  Apl.  1686  is  headed,  "  Horringer 
in  Old  Bacton  and  Bresworth  Nova  Aula  in  Old  Bacton."  The  court  last 
referred  to  was  held  by  Mary  Pretyman  and  Margaret  Pretyman,  sisters  of 
Henry,  who  had  given  a  charge  over  his  manors  to  satisfy  his  sisters' 
portions.  A  court  was  held  20th  Oct.  1690,  by  Henry  Pretyman,  the  then 
lord,  the  title  of  the  court  on  the  rolls  being  "  Bresworth  Nova  Aula  in 
Bacton  Veteri." 

Arms  of  NEWTON  :  Arg.  a  lion  rampant  Sab.  langued  and  armed  Gu. 
charged  on  the  shoulder  with  a  cross  pattee  Or. 

MANOR  OF  BOWELL'S  HALL  OR  BOVILLE'S. 

The  manor  passed  to  Humphrey  Wyngfeld  in  1530  under  a  fine  levied 
by  him  and  others  against  Sir  John  Wiseman  and  others.7  About  this  time 
we  find  the  manor  in  Humphrey  Wingfield,  Edmund  Beaufre,  William 
Congsby,  and  Robert  Jener.  Alexander  Newton  died  seised  of  the  manor 
in  1569,  leaving  John  Rolleston,  Elizabeth  Spilman,  and  Grace  Prety  his 
heirs,  but  by  his  will  the  said  Alexander  Newton  seems  to  have  devised 

1  Feet  of  Fines,  52  Hen.  III.  48.  5  Fine,  Mich.  18-19  Eliz. 

'I.Q.D.,  10  Edw.  II.  60.  e  Fine,  Easter,  29  Eliz. 

3  See  Bacton  Manor,  in  this  Hundred.  7Fine,  Hil.  22  Hen.  VIII. 

4  Original  admittances  to  this  last  court 

and  the  court  held  I4th  Aug,  1589, 
are  in  the  writer's  possession. 


23o  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

the  manor  to  Alexander  Huggen,  in  case  his,  Alexander  Newton's,  wife 
should  not  be  with  child. 

MANOR  OF  BARNIES  OR  ROOKY'S. 

We  learn  little  of  this  manor  save  that  it  was  vested  in  the  time  of 
Queen  Elizabeth  in  George  Cawsey,  who  sold  it  to  Alexander  Newton,  who 
died  in  1569  ;  later,  we  find  it  vested  in  Charles,  Earl  Cornwallis,  ist  Marquis, 
and  it  then  descended  in  the  same  course  of  devolution  as  the  Manor  of  Old 
Hall.  The  manor  is  specifically  mentioned  in  a  fine  levied  in  1576  by 
Thomas  Gawdye  against  John  Rochester  and  others.1 

One  of  the  manors  of  Braiseworth,  but  it  is  not  clear  which,  was  vested 
in  1538  in  Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  for  this  year  he  granted 
"  Braiseworth  Manor  "  to  the  Crown  in  exchange  by  deed  30  Hen.  VIII.1 
This  was  also  one  of  the  manors  in  1555  vested  in  John  Wiseman,  for  he 
died  seised  on  27th  May  this  year,  leaving  Edward  Wiseman  his  heir  at  law.3 
There  are  two  fines  levied  of  Braiseworth  Manor  in  the  time  of  Queen 
Elizabeth,  one  in  1578  by  Leonard  Casson  against  Philologus  Fourthe,4 
and  the  other  in  1586  by  Isaac  Preston  and  others  against  Edmund  Boken- 
ham  and  others.5 


•Fine,  Mich.  18-19  Eliz.  Fine»  Trin-  20  Eliz- 

•S.P.  1538,  1182  (182).  'Fine,  Hil.  28  Eliz. 

J  I.P.M.,  2  and  3  Ph.  and  M.  59. 


BROCKFORD   HALL.  231 

MANOR  OF  BROCKFORD  HALL,  NOW  WITH  WETHERINGSETT. 

GREAT  part  of  Brockford  anciently  belonged  to  Bury 
Abbey  by  the  gift  of  Athulf  or  Eadulf,  Bishop  of  Elmham 
about  963,  and  a  successor  of  Ailfric,  the  2nd  Bishop  of 
that  name,  surnamed  the  Black,  who  died  in  1038,  gave  his 
part  in  Brockford  to  the  abbey,  so  that  by  the  time  of  the 
Domesday  Survey  the  abbey  held  as  in  Edward  the  Con- 
fessor's time  3  carucates  and  43  acres  of  land  and  4  acres  of 
meadow  here.  Attached  to  the  manor  were  14  bordars,  3  serfs,  2  plough- 
teams  in  demesne  and  2  belonging  to  the  tenants,  wood  sufficient  for  the 
maintenance  of  40  hogs,  8  beasts,  6  hogs,  20  sheep,  and  a  like  number  of 
goats,  valued  at  loos.'  But  it  does  not  appear  that  the  abbey  held  as  a 
manor.  In  the  time  of  Hen.  I.  the  lordship  was  held  by  Sir  Robert  de 
Sackville,  Knt.,  as  in  Braiseworth,2  and  from  him  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Jordan  de  Sackville  ;  but  the  author  of  the  Magna  Britannia  from  his  MS. 
states  that  in  1286  the  lordship  belonged  to  the  abbey  of  Bury.  It  is 
quite  true  that  as  late  as  the  time  of  Queen  Mary  the  manor  is  stated  to  have 
formed  part  of  the  possessions  of  the  dissolved  monastery  of  Bury,  and  as 
such  was  purported  to  be  granted,  I  Mary,  to  Lady  Anne  of  Cleves,3  and  the 
Abbot  of  Bury  had  free  warren,  view  of  frankpledge,  and  assize  of  bread 
and  beer  in  the  time  of  Edw.  I.,4  but  for  all  this  it  is  not  clear  that  the  Manor 
of  Brockford  was  actually  vested  in  the  abbey. 

In  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  the  manor  was  vested  in  Thomas 
Gawdy,  and  later  in  the  same  reign  in  Nicholas  Hare  and  Arthur  Penning, 
who  held  their  first  court  for  the  manor  in  1580. 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth 
we  find  an  action  by  Anthony  "  Pennynge  "  against  Anthony  Gawdy  and 
others  to  set  aside  a  claim  to  an  annuity  out  of  plaintiff's  Manor  of  Brockford 
which  Anthony  Gawdy  claimed  as  charged  thereon,5  and  a  little  later 
amongst  the  same  Proceedings  an  action  by  Anthony  Russhe  against  the 
said  Anthony  Penning,  lord  of  Brockford  Manor,  to  compel  admittance  to 
land  held  of  the  manor.6  Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time 
of  Queen  Elizabeth  is  an  action  by  John  Reve  against  Edward  Turpyn 
touching  the  site  of  this  Manor  of  Brockford.7 

Arthur8  Penning  died  seised  in  1593,  when  the  manor  vested  in  his 
son  and  heir  Arthur  Penning,  who  had  licence  to  alien  the  manor  in  1624 
to  Sir  William  Soame,  Knt.  On  Sir  William  Soame's  death  in  1655  it  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  Stephen  Soame,  of  Thurlow,  who  married  ist  Mary, 
daughter  of  Sir  —  Denham,  Knt.,  and  2ndly  Anne,  daughter  of  Ambrose 
Copinger,  D.D.,  Rector  of  Buxhall,  and  widow  of  Isaac  Crane,  of  Lavenham. 
Anne  married  a  third  time,  Sir  George  Reeve,  of  Thwaite,  Bart.,  and  carried 
the  manor  into  that  family.  On  the  death  of  Sir  George  Reeve  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Robert  Reeve,  Bart.9 

In  1687  we  find  amongst  the  Exchequer  Depositions  taken  at  Diss, 
notice  of  an  action  as  to  metes  and  bounds  of  the  manor,  and  as  to  rents  and 
arrears,  &c.,  by  Sir  Robert  Reeve, Bart., against  James  Harvey  and  others.10 

'bom.  ii.  361.  6Ib.  401. 

'See    Old     Hall,     Braiseworth,    in  this         ?C.P.  Ser.  ii.  B.  civ.  2. 

Hundred.  8  Sometimes  called  Anthony,  and  the  son 

J  i  Mary,  M.  Trin.  Rec.  Rot.  68.  Arthur. 

*  Quo  Warranto  Rolls,  733.  'See  Manor  of  Thwaite,  in  this  Hundred. 

'C.P.  ii.  369.  "3  Jas.  II.  at  Diss,  Exch.  Dep.' 


232  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

On  the  death  of  Sir  Robert  Reeve  the  manor  passed  to  his  daughter 
and  heir,  Anne,  who  held  her  first  court  for  this  manor  in  1688.  She  marrit  <  1 
ist  Philip,  5th  Earl  of  Leicester,  and  2ndly,  John  Sheppard,  of  Ash.  In 
1702  the  manor  was  held  by  Philip,  Lord  Lisle,  afterwards  Earl  of  Leicester 
in  right  of  his  wife,  and  he  held  a  court  7th  Oct.  1702  and  8th  Oct.  1703. 
John  Sheppard,  the  Countess  of  Leicester's  2nd  husband,  had  the  lordship, 
and  held  a  court  I2th  Oct.  1708.  She  died  in  1726,  and  he  in  1747,  when  the 
manor  passed  to  his  second  wife  and  widow,  Hannah,  who  remarried  Sir 
Samuel  Prime,  Knt.1  He  died  in  1776,  and  his  widow,  Hannah,  survived, 
and  as  "  Dowager  Lady  Prime  "  held  acourti6th  Aug.  1781.  On  her  death 
the  manor  passed  to  John  Sheppard,  who  married  twice,  and  had  by  his 
second  wife,  Mary  Rivett,  of  Brandeston,  a  son,  John  Sheppard,  who 
succeeded  to  the  lordship  on  the  death  of  his  father  in  1793.  John  Sheppard, 
the  son,  held  his  first  court  8th  Dec.  1795,  and  in  1797  married  Letitia, 
daughter  of  Col.  Wilson,  of  Didlington  Hall,  Norfolk,  and  sister  of  Robert, 
Lord  Berners.  He  died  3ist  Jan.  1824,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  John  Wilson  Sheppard,  of  Campsey  Ash,  J.P.  and  D.L.,who  in 
April,  1823,  married  Harriet,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Col.  George  Crump,  of 
Alexton  Hall,  co.  Leicester  (by  Mary  Wilson,  his  wife,  sister  of  Robert, 
Lord  Berners),  and  dying  2nd  Apl.  1830,  while  attending  the  assizes  at 
Bury  St.  Edmunds  as  High  Sheriff,  the  manor  vested  in  his  son  and  heir, 
John  George  Sheppard. 

Page,  writing  in  1847,  states  that  the  manor  then  belonged  to  Sir 
Edward  Kerrison,  Bart.,  of  Oakley  Park,  but  this  seems  doubtful,  as  we 
find  the  manor  in  1855  still  in  the  above-named  John  George  Sheppard,  of 
Campsey  Ash,  J.P.  and  D.L.,  High  Sheriff  in  1859,  who  married  4th  Aug. 
1846,  Harriet  Anna,  2nd  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Tyrwhitt  Jones,  Bart.,  of 
Stanley  Hall,  co.  Salop,  and  in  her  the  manor  appears  to  have  been  vested 
in  1885. 

In  1905  it  was  apparently  vested  in  W.  W.  Westwood,  but  of  this  we 
are  not  certain. 

Page,  quoting  from  a  MS.  in  the  possession  of  W.  S.  Fitch,  of  Ipswich, 
the  well-known  antiquarian,  says:  "  In  Brockford  Street  is  a  great  house, 
which  long  since  was  an  Inne,  and  hung  out  the  signe  of  the  Swanne.  It  is 
now  commonly  called  Brockford  House,  since  the  Signe  was  pulled  down 
by  Thomas  Revett  Esq.,  a  Justice  of  the  Peace  for  the  county  of  Suff.  in 
the  time  of  Q.  Elizabeth.1  Edmund  his  eldest  sonne,  sold  to  John  Turner, 
whose  son  Gregory  sold  it  to  Mr.  Leman,of  Brame's  Hall,  now  owner  of  it. 

"  Robert  Revett,  2nd  son  of  Thomas  Revett,  Esq.,  married  — ,  daughter 
of  John  Revett,  of  Bildeston,  Esq.  Thomas  Revett,  sonne  of  this  Robert, 
lives  now  in  a  House  neare  Brockford  Green,  and  is  Chief  Constable  of  the 
Hundred  of  Hartismere  this  Yeare,  1657." 

Perhaps  the  house  referred  to  above  is  that  known  also  as  Shrubland 
House,  now  occupied  as  a  farmhouse,  which  was  for  over  300  years  the 
residence  of  the  Rivett  family,  the  walls  of  one  of  the  rooms  being 
decorated  with  paintings  representing  various  kinds  of  birds. 

'See  Manor  of  Thwaite,  in  this  Hundred.          "I.P.M.,  20-21  Hen.  VIII.,  D.K.R.  10  App. 

ii.  p.  125.  Land  in  Brockford  is 
included  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of 
Thomas  Rivett,  who  died  about 
I529- 


BROCKFORD   HALL.  233 

Court  Rolls  of  the  manor  are  referred  to  in  the  6th  Report  of  the  Deputy 
Keeper  of  the  Public  Records,  Appendix  ii.  p.  86,  and  extracts  from  Court 
Rolls  20  Edw.  IV.  and  i  Edw.  VI.,  will  be  found  in  the  Public  Record 
Office.1 

Arms  of  SHEPPARD  :  Sa.,  a  fesse  Or,  between  3  talbots  passant,  Arg., 
each  carrying  in  the  mouth  a  bird-bolt,  of  the  2nd. 

STONEHAM'S  MANOR. 

A  manor  called  Stonham  in  Brockford,  or  rather  a  moiety  of  the 
reversion  in  this  manor,  expectant  on  the  death  of  Anne  Warner,  seems  to 
have  been  sold  by  John  Richester  to  Sir  Thomas  Gawdy  in  the  time  of 
Queen  Elizabeth,  but  it  may  not  have  been  a  manor.2 


'Portfolio,  203,  8.  *C.P.  ii.  417. 

FI 


234  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

BROME. 

|HERE  were  three  manors  here  in  Saxon  times.  One  belonged 
to  Goda,  a  freewoman  under  commendation  to  Stigand,  and 
consisted  of  2  carucates  of  land  (one  in  Brome  and  the  other 
in  Oakley),  I  villein,  7  bordars,  i  serf,  2  ploughteams  in 
demesne,  and  half  a  ploughteam  belonging  to  the  men, 
8  acres  of  meadow,  i  rouncy,  10  hogs,  and  40  sheep,  valued 
at  30$.  (which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  had  increased  to 
6is.)-  There  was  half  a  church  with  1 4  acres,  valued  at  2s.  The  Domesday 
tenant  was  Roger  Bigot. 

In  the  same  township,  also  belonging  to  Roger  Bigot,  and  formerly  held 
by  25  freemen,  and  3  half  freemen  under  commendation  of  Stigand,  were 
96  acres  of  land,  2  acres  of  meadow,  3  ploughteams  (reduced  to  i£  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey),  valued  at  305.,  but  at  only  205.  at  the  time  of  the  Survey. 
William  Scutet  held  this  of  Roger  Bigot.  It  was  5  quarentenes  long  and 
4  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  3$d. 

The  second  manor  was  held  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  by  Hugh  de 
Corbun  of  Roger  Bigot.  It  had  been  held  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  by 
a  freeman  Aluric  under  Gurth'is  commendation.  It  consisted  of  60  acres, 
3  bordars,  i  ploughteam  in  demesne  and  half  a  ploughteam  belonging  to  the 
tenants,  3  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  IDS.,  and  16  acres  which  had  been 
held  by  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Aluric,  and  valued  at  i6d.  The 
wife  of  this  freeman  was  under  commendation  to  Robert  Malet's predecessor.1 

The  third  manor  was  held  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  by  Anand,  and 
consisted  of  60  acres,  4  bordars,  half  a  ploughteam  in  demesne,  and  half 
belonging  to  the  men,  and  4  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  105. ;  and  3  freemen 
and  a  half  under  commendation  to  Anand  held  14  acres  and  i  ploughteam, 
valued  at  'is.  2d.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey,  when  i  serf  had  been  added 
to  the  manor  it  was  in  the  King's  hand,  and  included  in  those  lands  held  for 
him  by  Roger  Bigot." 

Robert  Malet  had  4  small  properties  here  at  the  time  of  the  Survey. 
The  first  was  of  6  acres,  valued  at  i2d. ;  the  second  7  acres,  valued  at  14^., 
held  of  him  by  William  Scutet,  and  formerly  held  by  three  half  freemen. 

The  third  consisted  of  30  acres,  i  ploughteam,  i£  acres  of  meadow, 
valued  at  55.  It  had  formerly  been  held  of  Robert  Malet  by  Ulmar,  a  free- 
man under  commendation  to  Edric.  And  14  acres,  valued  at  2s.,  formerly 
held  by  5  freemen  under  Edric' s  commendation.  Both  the  above  were  at 
the  time  of  the  Survey  held  by  Guarin  of  Robert  Malet. 

The  fourth  holding  consisted  of  4  acres  in  the  King's  soc,  valued  at  Sd., 
held  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  by  Walter,  and  formerly  by  2  freemen  under 
commendation  to  Edric.3 

Amongst  the  lands  of  Ralph  de  Bellafago  was  a  small  holding  in  this 
place,  consisting  of  i  bordar,  with  8  acres,  belonging  to  Wortham,  and 
valued  at  I2d.4 

Another  small  holding  of  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  was  i 
acre,  valued  at  4^.,  formerly  held  by  a  freeman  under  the  abbot.5 

The  last  holding  mentioned  here  was  of  the  fee  of  the  Bishop  of  Thetford, 
and  consisted  of  6  acres,  valued  at  I2d.,  formerly  held  by  a  freeman  under 
commendation  to  one  himself  under  commendation  to  Bishop  Aylmar.6 

1  Dom.  ii.  339.  *  Dom.   ii.   3546. 

*Dom.  ii.  282.  '  Dom.  ii.  371. 

3  Dom.  ii.  310,  321.  6Dom.  ii.  381. 


BROME.  235 

MANOR  OF  BROME  HALL  OR  DAVILLERS. 

By  the  time  of  Hen.  III.  two  manors  only  appear,  Ling  or  Lyng  Manor 
and  Brome  Hall.  It  appears  from  the  will  of  John  Cornwallis  in  1506  that 
he  then  resided  at  Lyng  Hall,  the  present  Brome  Hall  not  being  built  till  1550. 
The  main  manor,  Brome  Hall,  was  in  the  time  of  Hen.  III.  held  by 
Bartholomew  D'Avilers,  he  holding  by  serjeanty  of  the  King.' 

The  extent  of  land  then  forming  the  lordship  was  I  messuage  with  a 
garden  and  underwood,  50  acres  of  arable  land,  two  of  meadow,  and  2  of 
pasture,  and  the  service  that  "  if  the  King  should  wish  to  have  Pataliwn 
of  the  towns  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  in  his  army  in  Wales,  then  he  shall  con- 
duct the  said  Patalium  from  the  ditch  of  St.  Edmunds  into  Wales,  and 
receive  at  the  said  ditch  fourpence  a  head  for  their  maintenance  for  forty 
days."  The  manor  passed  from  Bartholomew  to  his  son  Richard  about 
1227. 

Richard  Davillers  died  in  1269,  from  which  time  to  1330  the  manor 
passed  as  the  Manor  of  Erwarton,  in  Samford  Hundred.  Bartholomew 
Davillers  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  and  of  a  fair  and  market  in  Brome 
as  early  as  1253,'  and  the  manor  is  specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition 
p.m.  of  Bartholomew,  who  died  in  I28y,3  and  an  extent  of  the  manor  given. 
It  is  also  specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  John  Davillers, 
who  died  in  1288,*  and  of  Bartholomew  Davillers,  who  died  in  I33O.5 
This  last  Bartholomew,  son  of  the  last  John  Davillers,  left  four  daughters 
only — Isabel,  Cecilia,  Margaret,  and  Joan,  his  coheirs.  One  seems  to  have 
died  an  infant,  for  Isabel  did  homage  for  her  third  (sic),6  but  her  sisters 
were  apparently  under  age,  and  the  manor  being  held  in  chief  of  the  King 
he  granted  the  custody  of  two  parts  to  Robert  de  Ufford.7 

The  service  by  which  this  manor  and  the  Manor  of  Erwarton  were 
held  is  then  stated  to  have  been  the  "  leading  all  the  men  (200)  of  the 
counties  of  Suffolk  and  Norfolk  to  the  King's  wars  in  Wales,  from  the  Ditch 
of  St.  Edmunds  by  Newmarket,  withsoever  the  said  Lord  the  King  shall  go 
in  the  wars  in  Wales,  taking  for  every  man  for  his  expenses  four  pence  for 
40  days,  so  that  after  40  days  he  and  the  other  men  at  the  expense  of  the 
King  shall  remain."  There  is  a  MS.  in  the  British  Museum  formerly  belong- 
ing to  R.  Sparrow,  and  said  to  be  by  John  Wodderspoon,  which  gives 
extracts  from  the  inquisition  p.m.  relating  to  Suffolk  from  i  Edw.  I.  to  6 
Edw.  IV.  It  is  by  no  means  a  reliable  authority,  and  has  misled  many 
who  have  trusted  to  it  without  comparing  with  or  verifying  by  the  original 
documents.  For  instance,  this  MS.,  which  is  relied  on  by  Page,  or  more 
probably,  the  printed  source  from  which  Page  derived  his  information,  has 
two  errors  in  this  one  entry,  first  that  the  payment  was  $d.  and  not  4^.  a 
day  for  the  service,  and  that  Bartholomew  Davillers  left  three  daughters, 
whereas  he  left  four. 

Cecilia  married  Brian  de  Hiklyng,  and  there  is  an  inquisition  p.m  of 
her  under  this  description  in  1345,"  and  this  same  year  there  is  on  the 
Patent  Rolls  a  pardon  to  William  Coleman,  parson  of  the  church  of  Onhous 
(Onehouse),  and  Augustine  Arnold,  for  acquiring  for  the  life  of  Joan,  late 
wife  of  Bartholomew  Davillers,  Knt.,  from  Cicely  de  Hykelyng,  £10  of  rent 

'1210-12,   Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer,  4I.P.M.,  16  Edw.  I.  22. 

132  Bd.  'I.P.M.,  5  Edw.  III.  76. 

2  Chart.  Rolls,  37-38  Hen.  III.  pt.  i.  n,  37;  6O.  5  Edw.  III.  14  ;  6  Edw.  III.  14. 

T.  de  N.  285,  296.  7O.  5  Edw.  III.  14. 

3I.P.M.,  15  Edw.  I.  16.  "I.P.M.,  19  Edw.  III.  33. 


336  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

out  of  Brome  Hall  without  licence.1  How  Coleman  and  Arnold  could  acquire 
a  rent  from  a  person  out  of  possession — a  rent  issuing  out  of  land  in  the 
holding  of  another — is  not  easy  to  see,  but  it  may  have  been  limited  out  of 
the  third  which  had  descended  to  her,  subject  to  her  mother's  right  to 
dower. 

Joan,  the  4th  daughter,  or,  as  Davy  says,  the  daughter  and  heir  of 
Cecilia,  married  ist  Bartholomew  Bacon,  and  2ndly  Sir  Edmund  Barkley, 
and  died  without  issue,  when  Sir  Edmund  Barkley  held  a  3rd  in  right  of 
his  wife  until  his  death  without  issue  in  1380." 

The  entirety  of  the  manor  ultimately  became  vested  in  Isabella,  the 
eldest  daughter  of  Bartholomew  Davillers,  who  married  ist  Sir  Robert 
Bacon  about  1350.  Sir  Robert  was  knight  of  the  shire  in  1363  and  1369, 
and  left  one  son,  Sir  Bartholomew  Bacon,  who  married  Joan,  the  daughter 
of — Heveningham,  and  died  in  1392  without  issue,  leaving  his  sister  Isabel 
his  sole  heir.  A  fine  was  levied  in  I374,3  "Sir  John  de  Hevenyngham  and 
Hugh  Verdon,  parson  of  Goldhangre  Church  v.  Sir  Bartholomew  Bacon," 
of  both  manor  and  advowson,  but  as  J  oan,  the  other  daughter  of  Bartholomew 
Davillers,  did  not  die  till  1380,*  the  whole  could  not  have  been  dealt 
with  in  possession.  Evidently  the  fine  was  limited  in  order  to  resettle  the 
property,  for  we  find  on  the  Patent  Rolls  a  pardon  to  Bartholomew  Bacon, 
Knt,  and  Joan  his  wife,  for  having  acquired  from  John  de  Hevenyngham, 
Knt.,  the  manor  and  advowson  without  licence.5  Joan,  the  widow  of  Sir 
Bartholomew  Bacon  did  not  die  till  about  1435. 6 

Isabel,  the  sister  and  heir  of  Sir  Bartholomew  Bacon,  married  Sir 
Oliver  Calthorpe,  of  Burnham  Thorpe,  in  Norfolk,  Knt.  He  died  in  the 
latter  part  of  the  reign  of  Rich.  II.,  and  his  wife  survived  until  i4ii.7 

On  Sir  Oliver  Calthorpe's  death,  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Sir  William  Calthorpe,  who  married  Eleanor,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Mantly, 
and  died  in  1420,  when  the  manor  descended  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John 
Calthorpe,  who  married  Amy,  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  John  Wythe,  and 
on  his  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  William  Calthorpe, 
who,  dying  in  1494,"  left  by  Elizabeth,  his  first  wife,  daughter  of  Reginald, 
Lord  Grey  of  Ruthyn,  a  son,  Sir  John  Calthorpe,  who  married  Elizabeth, 
daughter  of  Roger  Wentworth,  of  Nettlestead,  and  died  in  his  father's 
lifetime,  and  on  Sir  William's  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  grandson  and 
heir,  the  son  of  Sir  John,  Sir  Philip  Calthorpe,  who  married  ist  Mary,  sister 
and  heir  of  Sir  William  Say,  and  2ndly  Jane,  daughter  of  John  Blenerhasset, 
and  dying  in  1535  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir  by  his  first  wife,  Sir 
Philip  Calthorpe.  He  married  Jane  (?  Amata  or  Amy),  daughter  of  Sir 
William  Boleyn,  of  Blickley,  in  Norfolk,  and  aunt  of  Queen  Anne  Boleyn, 
and  died  yth  April,  1549,'  leaving  an  only  daughter  and  heir,  Elizabeth, 
married  to  Sir  Henry  Parker,  K.B.,  son  and  heir  of  Lord  Morley,  who  sold 
the  manor  in  1550  to  Robert  Hyde,10  from  whom  it  passed  to  Sir  Thomas 
Cornwallis,  eldest  son  of  Sir  John  Cornwallis.  He  had  received  the  honour 
of  knighthood  at  Westminster  ist  Dec.  1548,  and  on  the  insurrection  in 
Norfolk,  under  Kett,  the  tanner,  in  1549,  bringing  forces  to  the  assistance 

'Pat.  Rolls,  19  Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  19.  6I.P.M.,  13  Hen.  VI.  29. 

'I.P.M.,  4  Rich.  II.  10.  7  See  Pat.  Rolls,  14  Hen.  VI.  pt.  i.  14. 

'48  Edw.  III.  23.  'See    Manor    of    Lound,  in    Lothingland 
<Inquis.  p.m.  Edw.  de  Berkley  and  Joan  Hundred. 

his  wife,  4  Rich.  II.  10.  'I.P.M.,  3  Edw.  VI.  148. 

'Pat.  Rolls,  15  Rich.  II.  pt.  i.  9;  I.P.M.,  "Fine,  Easter,  4  Edw.  VI. 

Sir  Bartholomew  Bacon  and  Joan 

his  wife,  15  Rich.  II.  pt.  i.  10. 


BROME.  237 

of  the  Marquis  of  Northampton,  at  that  time  sent  to  suppress  those  rebels, 
behaved  with  great  bravery  in  entering  the  city  of  Norwich,  together  with 
Lord  Sheffield,  who  was  there  slain,  and  Sir  Thomas,  being  overpowered, 
was  taken  prisoner,  and  detained  till  the  King's  forces  relieved  him.  He  was 
Sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  in  the  last  year  of  the  reign  of  Edw.  VI.,  and 
coming  to  the  aid  of  Queen  Mary,  with  the  forces  of  those  counties,  who  at 
the  time  of  the  decease  of  King  Edward,  was  at  Framlingham  Castle,  in 
Suffolk,  was  the  principal  means  of  advancing  that  princess  to  the  throne. 

He  was  also  very  instrumental  in  suppressing  VVyat's  insurrection,  and, 
with  the  Earl  of  Sussex  and  Sir  Edward  Hastings  was  commissioned  for 
the  trial  of  Sir  Thomas  Wyat.  He  was  made  a  privy  councillor,  and  con- 
stituted Treasurer  of  Calais  ;  from  whence  he  was  recalled  shortly  before  the 
taking  of  that  town  by  the  French.  He  served  in  Parliament  for  Gatton,  in 
Surrey,  and  was  elected  one  of  the  knights  for  the  county  of  Suffolk.  A 
fine  of  the  manor  was  in  1554  levied  against  Sir  Thomas  Cornwallis  by 
Thomas  Gaudy.1  On  25th  Dec.  1557,  he  was  made  comptroller  of  the 
household  ;  on  the  decease  of  Sir  Robert  Rochester,  Knight  of  the  Garter, 
being  in  great  favour  with  the  Queen,  whose  confidence  he  greatly  enjoyed. 
He  was  sent  to  the  Princess  Elizabeth  at  Ashbridge,  to  acquaint  her  with 
the  Queen's  pleasure  that  she  should  immediately  repair  to  London.  And 
when  it  was  debated  in  council  to  send  that  princess  out  of  England,  with 
the  object  of  excluding  her  from  the  succession,  Sir  Thomas  Cornwallis, 
by  his  arguments,  dissuaded  the  Queen  from  it,  alleging  that  the  people 
of  England  would  take  it  very  ill,  nay,  would  not  at  all  endure  that  the  next 
heir  to  the  crown  should  be  conveyed  out  of  the  land.  Nevertheless,  on 
Queen  Elizabeth's  accession  to  the  Crown,  not  being  of  her  religion,  he  was 
left  out  of  the  privy  council,  and  removed  from  his  place  of  comptroller 
of  the  household,  which  induced  him  to  retire  to  the  country,  where  he 
rebuilt  his  mansion-house  of  Brome  Hall ;  departing  this  life  26th  December, 
1604,  in  the  86th  year  of  his  age.  A  fine  marble  tomb  is  erected  to  his 
memory  against  the  north  wall  of  the  chancel  of  the  church  of  Brome, 
whereon  are  the  statues  of  him  and  his  lady  carved  in  stone  ;  he  in  armour, 
and  at  his  feet  a  white  buck  couched,  with  a  wreath  about  his  neck  of  green 
acorns  proper,  wounded  in  his  left  shoulder.  And  at  her  feet  is  a  falcon 
issuant,  secant,  out  of  a  crown  Or.  This  inscription  is  on  the  tomb  : — 

"  Here  lies  Sir  Thomas  Cornwallis,  son  of  Sir  John, 

who  was  of  Queen  Mary  princely  councell,  and 
Treasurer  of  Cales,   and  after  Controler  of  her 
Majestic' s  household,  in  especial  grace  and  trust 
of  his  mistress  at  her  untimely  death." 

He  took  to  wife  Anne,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Jerningham,  of  Somerley- 
ton,  Knt.,  and  of  Bridget  his  wife,  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Drury,  of 
Halsted,  by  whom  he  had  issue  two  sons,  William  and  Charles ;  as  also 
three  daughters— Elizabeth,  married  to  Sir  Thomas  Kitson,  of  Hengrave, 
Knt. ;  Anne,  wife  of  William  Halse,  of  Devonshire  ;  and  Alice,  wedded 
to  Richard  Southwell. 

Sir  William  Cornwallis,  the  eldest  son,  embarking  with  Robert 
Devereux,  Earl  of  Essex,  in  his  expedition  against  the  rebels  in  Ireland  in 
X599)  was»  f°r  his  services  in  that  kingdom,  knighted  at  Dublin,  5th 
August  the  same  year.  He  married  ist  Lucy,  eldest  daughter  and  coheir 

1  Fine,  Easter,  i  Mary  I. 


238  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

to  John  Nevil,  Lord  Latimer,  and  of  Lucy  his  wife,  daughter  of  Henry,  Earl  of 
Worcester,  by  whom  he  had  issue  William,  who  died  young  in  1565,  and 
was  buried  at  Hengrave,  as  a  gravestone  in  that  church  shows.  Also 
Thomas,  2nd  son,  and  four  daughters — Frances,  married  to  Sir  Edward 
Withipole,  Knt. ;  Elizabeth,  wedded  to  Thomas  Sands ;  Catherine,  to 
Richard  Turner ;  and  Dorothy,  to  Archibald,  Earl  of  Argyle.  By  his  2nd 
wife,  Jane,  daughter  of  Hercules  Mewtas,  who  survived  him,  and  was  after- 
wards the  wife  of  Sir  Nathaniel  Bacon,  of  Culford,  Knight  of  the  Bath, 
he  had  issue  Frederick  Cornwallis,  who  for  his  eminent  services  was  created 
Lord  Cornwallis ;  but  his  father,  Sir  William,  was  succeeded  in  the  greater 
part  of  his  estate  by  Thomas,  his  son  and  heir  by  Lucy,  daughter  of  the 
Lord  Latimer.  This  manor,  however,  passed  to  the  son  Frederick.  He 
was  in  his  youth  introduced  by  his  uncle,  Sir  Charles  Cornwallis,  into  the 
service  of  Prince  Henry,  eldest  son  of  King  James  the  First,  when  Prince 
of  Wales,  waiting  on  him  in  his  journey  to  Spain.  After  succeeding  his 
brother,  he  was  created  a  baronet  by  letters  patent  bearing  date  4th  May, 
1627,  and  received  the  honour  of  knighthood  at  Whitehall  2nd  December, 
1630.  He  was  elected  to  Parliament  for  the  borough  of  Eye  in  1639, 
and  in  1640,  when,  discerning  that  the  violent  measures  of  the  predominant 
party  tended  to  the  ruin  of  his  country,  he  opposed  their  proceedings  with 
some  warmth,  and  thereupon  was  inserted  in  the  list  of  those  who  were 
maligned  under  the  title  of  Staffordians.  He  retired  with  his  Majesty,  and 
sat  among  those  members  assembled  at  Oxford  in  January,  1643  ;  about 
which  time,  his  first  lady  departing  this  life  was  buried  in  Christ  Church  in 
that  city. 

Being  of  too  warm  a  temper  to  sit  still  in  those  times  of  confusion,  he 
was  concerned  in  most  of  the  principal  actions  in  the  Civil  War,  and  was  dis- 
tinguished for  his  gallant  behaviour  on  several  occasions,  particularly  in 
the  fight  at  Cropredy  Bridge  in  Oxfordshire,  3oth  June,  1644,  where  he 
rescued  the  Lord  Wilmot,  then  taken  prisoner  by  the  rebels.  And,  when 
all  places  had  surrendered  to  the  Parliament,  and  his  estate  was  sequestered, 
he  followed  King  Charles  the  Second  in  his  exile,  and  took  part  in  his 
triumphant  return  and  entry  through  London,  2gth  May,  1660,  the  next 
day  being  declared  treasurer  of  his  Majesty's  household,  and  sworn  of  his 
privy  council.  On  Saturday  afternoon,  20th  April,  1661,  three  days  before 
his  Majesty's  coronation,  he  was  created,  with  other  noble  persons,  in  the 
banqueting-room  at  Whitehall,  a  Baron  of  the  realm,  by  the  title  of  Lord 
Cornwallis, of  Eye,  in  co.  Suffolk,  "having  (as  the  preamble  to  the  patent 
sets  forth)  from  his  youth  with  great  fidelity,  served  King  Charles  the  First 
in  court  and  camp,  for  which  he  suffered  the  loss  of  his  estate,  imprisonment, 
and  exile ;  and,  in  testimony  of  the  high  esteem  his  Majesty  had  of  his 
merits  he  advanced  him  to  the  said  degree  and  dignity." 

But  soon  after  he  departed  this  life,  dying  suddenly  of  an  apoplectic 
fit,  3ist  Jan.  1661-2,  generally  lamented,  being  as  one  characterises  him, 
"  a  man  of  so  chearful  a  spirit,  that  no  sorrow  came  next  his  heart  ;  and  of 
so  resolved  a  mind,  that  no  fear  came  into  his  thoughts  ;  so  perfect  a  master 
of  courtly  and  becoming  raillery,  that  he  could  do  more  with  one  word  in 
jest  than  others  could  do  with  whole  harangues  in  earnest ;  a  well-spoken 
man,  competently  seen  in  modern  languages,  and  of  a  comely  and  goodly 
personage."  This  noble  lord  lies  buried  with  his  ancestors  in  the  chancel 
of  the  church  of  Brome. 

For  the  subsequent  devolution  of  this  manor  see  the  account  of  the 
Manor  of  Ingham,  in  Blackbourn  Hundred,  until  the  days  of  Charles,  2nd 


BROME.  239 

Marquis  Cornwallis,  who  sold  the  manor  in  Sept.  1823  for  £80,000,'  to 
Matthias  Kerrison,  of  Bungay,  who  married  Mary,  daughter  of  Edward 
Baines,  and  on  his  death  in  1827  the  said  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  General  Sir  Edward  Kerrison,  of  Oakley  Park,  G.C.B.  and  G.C.H., 
and  has  since  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Thelnetham,  in 
Blackbourn  Hundred,  being  now  vested  in  William  Spencer,  Lord  Bateman, 
3rd  Baron,  of  Breckles  Hall,  Norfolk. 

Sir  Richard  Gipps  states  that  the  family  of  Bucton  was  seated  at 
Brome  Hall  by  marriage  with  Brampton,  and  continued  there  till  Robert 
Bucton  left  two  daughters  and  heirs — Philippa,  the  eldest,  married  to  John 
Cornwallis,  the  London  merchant,  and  Ann,  the  second,  to  Mountney. 
Under  the  head  "  Broome,"  Gipps  says  :  "This  ancient  family  was  seated  at 
Brome  Hall,  in  Hartismere  Hundred,  but  was  extinct  about  3  Rich.  III. 
[1485],  when  Hen.  Broome  Esq.  left  two  daughters  and  heirs,  viz.,  Ann  the 
eldest  married  to  John  Brampton  Esq.  of  ...  in  Norf.,  and  Mary  the 
2nd  to  John  Jenny  of  Hardwyck  in  Norf." 

Under  Braham,  Gipps  says  :  "  Sir  John  Braham,  dying  about  49  Edw. 
III.  left  his  sole  daughter  and  heir  married  to  Robert  Bucton."  The 
Visitation  of  1561  makes  John  Cornwallis,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas,  who  died 
in  1384,  marry  this  daughter  of  Bucton,  and  describes  the  son  Thomas  as 
of  Brome,  and  Page  makes  this  John  the  representative  in  Parliament  of 
Suffolk  in  the  reign  of  Rich.  II.,  and  deceased  in  1446.  He  further  states 
that  he,  John  Cornwallis,  brought  the  manor  into  the  family  by  this 
marriage ;  but  we  are  inclined  to  think  that  what  was  acquired  through  the 
Bucton  alliance  must  have  been  land  in  Brome,  not  Brome  Hall  Manor.  At 
all  events  this  latter  manor  did  not  in  the  time  of  this  John,  nor,  indeed, 
until  1550,  pass  into  the  Cornwallis  family. 

The  Cornwallis  family  certainly  held  land  in  Brome  in  1448,  for  there 
is  the  record  of  an  enquiry  as  to  the  enclosure  of  a  certain  way  by  a  Cornwallis 
in  this  place  and  Occold  at  this  time.2  ,.- 

Extracts  from  Court  Rolls  of  Brome  Hall  Manor  in  1608  and  1686 
will  be  found  in  the  British  Museum.3 

Arms  of  CORNWALLIS  :  Sa.  guttle  d'eau,  on  a  fesse  Arg.  three  Cornish 
cloughs  ppr. 

MANOR  OF  LING  HALL. 

Of  this  manor  Hugh  de  Cressy  died  seised  in  1263. 4  Not  unlikely  this 
is  the  lordship  of  Brome  which  is  usually  supposed  to  have  come  to  the 
Cornwallis  family  by  the  marriage  of  John  Cornwallis  with  Philippe, 
daughter  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  Robert  Bucton,  who  died  seised  iyth  Dec. 
1408,  whose  wife  was  daughter  and  heir  of  Braham,  who  married  the  daughter 
and  heir  of  Sir  Robert  Tye.  This  John  Cornwallis  was  one  of  the  knights 
of  the  shire  for  Suffolk  in  the  time  of  Rich.  IT.,  and  died  in  August,  1436, 
his  will  being  dated  loth  Aug.  1436,  and  proved  on  the  23rd  of  the  same 
month.  To  him  succeeded  his  eldest  son,  Thomas  Cornwallis,  who  married 
Philippe,  daughter  and  heir  of  Edward  Tyrrel,  of  Downham,  co.  Essex, 
and  died  the  year  after  his  father,  leaving  Thomas,  his  son  and  heir.  This 
last  Thomas  was  a  knight  of  the  shire  for  Suffolk  in  1450,  and  on  his  death 
was  succeeded  by  his  son  John  Cornwallis.  He  died  without  issue  the 

1  Cambridge  Chronicle,  Sept.  igth,  1823.  3  Add.  Ch.  10502,  10501. 

'Inquis.  Quod   Damnum,  27-33  Hen.  VI.         "I.P.M.,  47  Hen.  III.  28. 
17;  I.P.M.,  /.    Hen.  VI.  A  52. 


240  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

roth  Sept.  1506,'  and  the  following  is  a  copy  of  his  will,  in  which  it  will  be 
seen  he  refers  to  Ling  Hall : — 

"  In  the  name  of  God,  Amen.  I  John  Cornwaleys,  of  Broome  in 
the  county  of  Suff.  Squyer,  being  of  whole  mynde  and  good  memory, 
the  xvi  day  of  August,  the  yere  of  our  Lord  God  MVC.VI.  make 
my  testament  in  this  wise.  First,  I  bequeth  my  soule  to  Almighti 
God,  our  Lady  Seint  Mary,  and  to  all  the  holy  company  of  hevyn  ;  my 
bodie  to  be  buried  in  the  chauncell  of  the  churche  of  our  Lady  of  Broome, 
next  Ey,  in  the  said  county  of  Suff.  before  our  Lady,  nygh  to  the  walle  of 
my  chapell  there,  if  that  I  die  in  the  said  parish  of  Brome,  or  nygh  to  it. 
And  if  I  die  elliswhere,  as  it  shall  please  God,  to  be  buried  where  myn 
executor  or  assign  shall  think  most  convenient.  I  bequeth  to  the  parson 
of  the  saide  churche  of  Brome,  for  breking  of  the  grounde  in  the  highe 
chauncell,  vis.  viiid.  I  bequeth  to  the  highe  altar  in  the  said  churche 
vis.  viiid.,  for  my  tiths  forgotten,  and  other  dutyes  neglected.  Item,  I 
bequeth  to  the  belles  of  the  saide  churche  of  Broome  xx''s.  Item,  I 
bequeth  to  the  reparacions  of  the  saide  churches  of  Okely  xxs.,  Sturston 
xxs.,  and  Thranston  xxs.,  to  the  churche  of  Bartyllesdon  xxs.  in  Essex. 
Item,  I  bequeth  to  Ellyn  Barkar,  my  servant,  vis.  viiid.  Item,  I  bequeth 
to  my  nece,  Elizabeth  Froxmore  xib,  and  to  hyr  serstenaunce  Ixvis.  viiid., 
and  to  my  nece  Elizabeth  Cornwalleys  Ixvis.  viiid.,  and  to  Agnes  Fastall 
xib.  to  hir  mariage.  Item,  I  will  and  bequeth  that  myn  executors  shall 
leve  at  Lyng-Hall,  theireas  now  I  dwell,  to  hym  that  shall  be  myn  heyre 
these  pressis  following  :  First,  in  the  chapell  my  great  masse  booke,  a 
vestiment  of  silke,  one  chalice,  one  corparas  case  with  a  corps  therein.  In 
the  hall,  the  table,  formys,  and  all  the  brewying  vessell  and  standards  in 
the  brewhouse,  and  bakehouse,  one  hole  plow,  a  cart,  and  v  horse  to  go 
withall.  A  gilt  goblet  with  a  cover,  that  was  my  faders,  and  a  gilt  cuppe 
with  a  cover  standing.  A  grete  potte  of  brasse,  and  a  secunde  potte  of 
brasse  ;  II  spits,  a  grete  and  a  lesse  ;  II  coberdy,  and  a  garnish  of  vessell  in 
the  chambyr  ovyr  the  parlour  ;  the  bedde  of  bokkys  tester  seder,  corteyns, 
counterpoynt,  fether-bedde,  bolster,  and  II  pelowes,  and  one  payre  of 
blanketts.  Item,  I  bequeth  to  the  priour  and  monkys  of  Ey  abbey  xxs. 
Item,  I  bequeth  to  the  churche  of  Ey,  four  combe  whete  ;  to  the  churche  of 
Oxon,  IIII  combe  whete  ;  to  the  churche  of  Dysse,  IIII  combe  whete  ;  to 
the  churche  of  Palgrave,  one  combe  whete  ;  to  the  churche  of  Shotle,  one 
combe  whete ;  to  the  churche  of  Billingford,  one  combe  whete ;  to  the  churche 
of  Yaxley,  a  combe  whete  ;  the  residue  of  my  goodes  and  corn  at  Bartillis- 
don,  at  London,  or  elliswhere  in  the  realme  of  England,  not  bequethide,  my 
dettis  and  my  bequessts  payde,  I  give  frely  unto  Elisabeth,  now  my  wife. 
Item,  I  bequeth  to  a  preest  to  syng  and  pray  for  my  soule,  my  faders  soule, 
my  moders  soule,  all  my  frendys  soules,  and  all  christeyn  soules  for  III 
yeres,  xxiiii  marc  sterling.  Item,  I  ordeyn  and  make  to  the  execution  of 
mys  testament  and  other  my  last  wille,  Elizabeth  now  my  wife,  my  broder 
William  Cornewalleys,  and  Robart  Melton,  to  whom  I  give  for  their  labour 
eche  of  them  Ixvis.  viiid.,  and  my  brother  Robart  Cornewaleys. 
Theise  bearing  witnesse,  John  Whitte,  Doctour,  William  Singulton,  John 
Constable,  Clerk,  parson  of  Brome,  John  Clerk.  Also,  I  bequeth  to  the 
abbote  of  Bury  myn  ambulling  nagge,  that  I  bought  of  John  Revet.  Also, 
I  bequeth  to  John  Reve,  my  godson,  xxs." 

His  brother,  Edward  Cornwaleys,  succeeded  to  the  estate,  and  died 
without  issue  four  years  after  him,  as  appears  by  a  gravestone  at  the  upper 

1 1.P.M.,  22  Hen.  VII.  14. 


BROME.  241 

end  of  the  chancel  of   the  church  of  Brome  (where  he  was  buried),  which 
had  this  inscription  engraved  on  brass  : — 

"  Orate  p  aia  Edwardi  Cornwallys  Arm 

qui  obyit  III  die  Septembris  Anno  dni  MDX. 

Cujus  Aia  propitietur  Deus. 

To  whom  succeeded  Robert  Cornwaleys,  his  brother  and  heir,  who 
married  a  daughter  of  the  family  of  Mountney,  and  dying  likewise  without 
issue,  was  succeeded  by  his  younger  brother  William.1 

This  William  Cornwallis,  though  his  brethren  were  living,  was  among 
those  gentlemen  of  the  county  of  Suffolk  who  were  certified  in  1501  to  have 
an  estate  sufficient  to  support  the  degree  of  a  Knight  of  the  Bath,  several 
having  to  take  that  order  on  the  creation  of  Henry,  Prince  of  Wales.  In 
1513  he  was  among  the  principal  persons  of  the  county  of  Suffolk  nominated 
by  Act  of  Parliament,  as  most  discreet  persons,  justices  of  the  peace,  for 
assessing  a  subsidy  of  £163,000,  by  a  poll-tax,  &c.,  for  defraying 
the  expense  of  taking  Terouanne  and  Tournay.  He  took  to  wife  Elizabeth, 
daughter  and  heir  of  John  Stamford,  and  died  20th  Nov.  1519. 2 

By  his  will  dated  8th  November,  1519  (proved  29th  following),  he 
orders  his  body  to  be  buried  in  the  church  of  St.  Nicholas,  of  Oakley, 
and  bequeaths  iiis.  ivd.  to  the  high  altar  of  that  church,  and  vis.  viii^. 
to  the  high  altar  of  the  parish  church  of  Broome.  He  also  wills  that  an 
honest  priest  be  provided  to  sing  for  his  soul,  and  all  his  friends'  souls,  in 
the  church  of  Oakley,  for  the  space  of  one  year,  and  that  viii.  mark  vis. 
viiid.  be  given  him  for  his  wages.  He  bequeaths  to  Elizabeth  his  wife  the 
manor  of  Bixley,  with  the  appurtenances  and  purchased  lands  thereunto 
belonging,  for  term  of  her  life,  as  also  her  own  inheritance  in  Bedfordshire, 
with  all  the  purchased  lands  thereto  belonging  ;  and  after  the  decease  of  the 
wife  of  his  brother  John,  his  place  in  London  called  Barones,  but  that  the 
residue  of  his  sister-in-law's  jointure  should,  as  to  the  rents,  go  yearly  to  the 
fulfilling  of  his  will.  He  bequeaths  legacies  to  his  daughters,  Prudence, 
Edith,  Affra,  Catherine,  and  Dorothy  ;  and  the  residue  of  his  purchased 
lands  to  John,  his  son  and  heir,  and  to  his  heirs  males,  in  default  to  his  next 
heirs,  ordaining  the  Lord  Bishop  of  Norwich  supervisor  of  his  will,  and  his 
wife  Elizabeth  and  Thomas  Goolding,  clerk,  his  executors. 

He  was  buried,  according  to  his  desire,  at  Oakley,  as  is  evident  from  a 
gravestone  in  the  east  end  of  the  chancel  of  the  church,  whereon  is  engraved 
the  following  inscription  ;  but  the  time  of  his  death  is  not  truly  set  down  : — 

"  Orate  pro  animabus  Willielmi  Cornwalles  et  Elisabethe 
uxoris  sue  qui  quidem  Willielmus  obiit  Anno  Domini  MDXX 
Quorum  animabus  propitietur  Deus.  Amen." 

The  said  Elizabeth  his  wife  lived  a  widow  upwards  of  seventeen  years, 
and  describing  herself  as  of  Thrandeston,  makes  her  will  30th  May,  1537, 
ordering  her  body  to  be  buried  in  the  chancel  of  the  church  of  Thrandeston, 
and  ordains  Thomas  Cornwallis,  Archdeacon  of  Norwich,  her  second  son, 
executor.  She  had  other  sons,  Edward,  William,  and  Francis 
Cornwallis,  of  Peckham,  in  the  parish  of  Camberwell,  in  Surrey,  who 
succeeded  his  brother  Edward  in  the  place  of  groom-porter  to  Queen 
Elizabeth. 

'The  Inquis.  p.m.  of  Edward  Cornwallis         'I.P.M.,  12  Hen.  VIII.  6. 
seems  to  make  his  brother  William 
his  heir;    I.P.M.,  2  Hen.  VIII. 

G  I 


242  THE  MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

John  Cornwallis,  eldest  son  and  heir  of  William,  was  in  the  expedition  in 
1521  with  the  Earl  of  Surrey,  Lord  High  Admiral,  who,  after  scouring  the 
seas,  landed  at  Morlaix,  in  Bretagne,and  Mr.  Cornwallis,  behaving  himself 
with  great  bravery  in  storming  the  town,  had  then  the  honour  of  knighthood 
conferred  on  lum  by  the  said  Earl. 

About  the  46th  year  of  his  age  he  was  by  King  Hen.  VIII.  called  to  be 
steward  of  the  household  to  Prince  Henry  his  son,  in  which  office  he  served 
six  years,  and  departed  this  life  at  Ashruge,  in  Buckinghamshire,  23rd  April 
1544.  His  kst  will  bears  date  loth  April,  1544,  and  the  probate  the  gth 
July  following.  "  He  first  commends  his  soul  to  Almighty  God,  and  to  the 
whole  company  of  heaven,  and  his  body  to  be  buried  with  Christian  burial, 
where  it  shall  please  God  to  suffer  him  to  depart  this  world.  He  orders  his 
executors  to  distribute  within  one  month  after  his  decease,  five  pounds 
among  poor  householders  within  the  parishes  of  Broome,  Oaleye,  Stuston, 
Thrandeston,  Yaxley,  and  other  towns  adjoining,  wherein  any  of  his  lands 
lie,  to  be  divided  equally  between  them.  He  bequeaths  to  Thomas,  his 
son  and  heir,  all  the  furniture  of  his  houses  at  Broome,  in  Suffolk,  Frense,  in 
the  county  of  Norfolk,  or  elsewhere  within  the  realm  of  England  ;  likewise 
all  his  cattle,  corn,  &c.,  upon  condition  that  he  gives  to  his  two  sisters,  Anne 
and  Mary,  their  double  marriage  apparel,  according  to  the  degree  of  every 
such  person  or  persons  they  should  marry  withall.  He  bequeaths  to  his 
daughter,  the  wife  of  the  said  Thomas,  his  wife's  gown  of  black  velvet.  To 
his  son  Henry,  his  own  gown  of  tawney  taffata.  To  his  son  Richard,  his 
ward,  Margaret  Lowthe,  which  he  bought  of  my  Lord  of  Norfolk,  to  marry 
her  himself,  if  they  both  will  be  so  contented ;  but  if  not,  that  he  should  have 
the  wardship  and  marriage  of  her,  with  all  advantages  and  profits.  And 
whereas  he  had  a  grant  from  Richard,  late  Bishop  of  Norwich,  of  the  advow- 
son  and  presentation  of  the  archdeaconry  of  Norwich,  he  wills  that  when  it 
falls  void,  his  executors  present  his  son  William  to  it,  if  so  be  he  takes  upon 
him  priests'  orders ;  but  if  he  be  not  minded  so  to  do,  that  he  should  have  the 
nomination  to  the  said  archdeaconry.  He  moreover  bequeaths  to  his 
daughter  Anne,  his  ring  with  the  rock  ruby  in  it,  and  300  marks  to  her 
marriage  portion ;  as  also  to  his  daughter  Mary  three  hundred  marks,  to 
be  paid  on  the  day  or  days  of  their  marriages ;  and  if  one  dies,  the  other  to 
have  her  portion.  He  gives  to  his  daughter  Hasset,  his  wife's  gown  of 
black  satten  ;  and  to  my  Lady  Hasset,  his  gilt  cup,  with  the  cover,  that 
had  the  two  ears  with  an  antick  boy  with  a  child  in  his  hand  on  it.  He 
bequeaths  to  his  brother  Edward  hi?  gown  of  black  damask  wealted  with 
velvet  and  furred  with  marterns.  To  his  brother  Francis,  his  gown  of 
black  satten  lined  with  velvet ;  and  to  his  brother  William,  such  of  his  apparel 
as  his  executors  shall  think  fit,  and  that  he  should  have  an  annuity  of 
£5.  for  life  out  of  his  lands  in  Broome,  payable  at  the  four  usual  feasts,  as 
also  his  board  with  his  son  Thomas,  or  on  refusal  a  further  annuity  of  £6. 
135.  qd.  The  rest  of  all  his  goods,  moveable  and  immoveable,  with  all  his 
manors,  lands,  &c.,  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Middlesex,  and  Lon- 
don, he  disposes  by  deed  of  settlement  on  Thomas,  his  son  and  heir,  and 
constitutes  him,  with  the  Lady  Blennerhasset  and  John  Blennerhasset,  his 
son-in-law,  executors." 

A  fine  tomb  is  erected  to  the  memory  of  this  testator  in  the  chancel  of 
the  church  of  Brome,  the  figures  of  him  and  his  lady  lying  thereon,  under 
an  arch,  he  in  complete  armour,  with  a  white  staff  in  his  hand  and  a  spotted 
greyhound,  dun  and  white,  couched  at  his  feet ;  and  at  her  feet,  a  hound, 


BROME. 


243 


spotted  red  and  white,  with  four  escutcheons  on  either  side,  and  three  on 
the  west  end,  with  this  inscription  round  the  tomb  : — 

Johannes  Cornwallis  miles  Willielmi  Cornwalleis 

Armigeri  filius  in  Domi  Principis  Edowardi  Deconomus, 

et  uxor  ejusdem  Maria  Edwardi  Sulliard  de  Essex 

Filia.     Qui  quidem  Johannes  xxiii.  Aprilis,  Anno 

Dom.  M.D.  xliiii.  obiit  Astrugie  in  Comitatu  Buckingham, 

cum  ibidem  Princeps  Edwardus  versaretur.1 

The  manor  passed  on  Sir  John's  death  to  his  eldest  son,  Thomas  Corn- 
wallis, and  a  fine  was  levied  of  this  manor  in  1595  by  Sir  Thomas  Kytson 
and  others  against  Sir  Thomas  Cornwallis.2  Sir  Thomas  Cornwallis 
died  26th  Dec.  1604,  and  from  this  time  the  manor  has  passed  with  the 
main  Manor  of  Brome  Hall. 

Extracts  from  the  Court  Rolls  of  Ling  Hall  Manor  in  1656  will  be  found 
amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.3 

MANOR  OF  MONK'S  BROME. 

This  manor  in  the  time  of  Hen.  I.  belonged  to  Robert  of  Essex  and 
Gunnora  his  wife,  and  was  given  by  them  to  the  priory  of  Thetford,  when 
the  lordship  continued  until  the  Dissolution,  when  it  vested  in  the  Crown, 
and  was  granted  by  Hen.  VIII.  first  to  the  Duke  of  Norfolk,  and  later  to 
John  Cornwallis,  eldest  son  of  William  Cornwallis,  and  from  the  time  of 
his  death  in  1544  has  passed  with  the  Manor  of  Ling  Hall. 


'Collins,  vol.  iv.  p.  267-271. 
1  Fine,  Easter,  37  Eliz. 


3 Add.  Ch.  10495. 


244  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 


BURG  ATE. 

HERE  is  an  entry  in  the  Domesday  Survey  under  Buresgate, 
placed  in  Plomesgate  Hundred,  which  probably  refers  to  this 
place.  It  is  amongst  the  lands  of  Robert  Malet,  and  con- 
sisted of  one  acre,  valued  at  3^.' 

BURGATE  MANOR. 

Robert  de  Burgate  was  lord  in  the  time  of  Hen.  III., 
and  he  was  succeeded  by  Peter  de  Burgate,  who  had  a  grant  of  a  market 
and  fair  for  this  manor  in  1272." 

Robert  was  heir  of  Peter,  and  held  in  1286.  Davy  enters  Richard  de 
Boylaund  as  lord  in  1296,  but  another  Peter  de  Burgate  and  Amicia  held  the 
manor  in  1301  ;3  this  Peter  was  probably  the  son  of  Baldwin,  a  brother  of 
Robert  de  Burgate.  To  Peter  succeeded  Andrew  de  Burgate,  and  to  him 
Sir  William  de  Burgate,  son  of  Peter,  and  probably  brother  of  Andrew.  He 
married  Alianor,  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Visdelieu,  and  died  in  1409,* 
leaving  Margaret,  his  daughter  and  coheir,  who  married  Sir  Robert  Swyn- 
ford,  and  they  held  a  moiety,  according  to  Davy.  We  find  that  as  early  as 
1342  a  fine  was  levied  of  part  of  the  manor  by  Sir  Robert  de  "  Swynesford," 
Knt.,  and  Margaret  his  wife,  against  Edmund  de  Playford,  vicar  of  Keneton 
church,  and  Thomas  de  Swynesford.5 

Davy  also  states  that  Eleanor,  another  daughter  and  coheir  of  Sir 
William  de  Burgate,  married  John  Rookwood,  and  had  the  other  moiety 
of  the  manor.  Gipps  says  that  Sir  William  left  an  only  child,  Joan  (but 
according  to  other  authorities  Eleanor)  married  to  John  Rookwood, of  Stan- 
ningfield.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  Sir  William  Burgate  left  three  daughters 
—Eleanor,  married  as  stated  above  to  John  Rokewood  or  Rookwood; 
Margaret,  married  to  Sir  Robert  Swynford  ;  and  Jane,  married  to  Sir 
Walter  Tyrell,  Knt.,  though  some  pedigrees,  add  a  fourth  daughter, 
Katharine,  married  to  Robert  Stonham,  of  Stonham  Aspal,  who  died  in 
1397.  Sir  William  certainly  died  the  24th  July,  1409.  He  was  interred 
under  an  altar  monument  in  the  middle  of  the  chancel  of  Burgate 
church.  Under  a  handsome  double  canopy  with  finials  are  the  figures  in 
brass  of  Sir  William  and  Alianor,  his  wife.  He  is  armed  with  a  painted 
helmet,  mail  gorget,  plated  armour,  and  short  sword  and  dagger,  and  lion 
at  his  feet ;  she  has  the  veil,  headdress,  with  puffs  of  hair  plaited  in  mat  form 
above  her  ears,  and  a  fillet  of  zig-zag  on  her  forehead,  close  gown  with  long 
mitton  sleeves,  mantle ;  dog,  or  as  Martin  says,  a  wolf,  with  a  collar  of 
bells,  looking  up,  at  her  left  foot,  and  round  them  an  inscription.  An 
engraving  of  the  monument  is  given  in  Gough's  "  Sepulchral  Monuments," 
and  in  the  first  volume  of  the  Proceedings  of  the  Suffolk  Institute,  p.  213. 

We  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  and  advowson  in 
1415  by  Robert  Leversegge,  Thomas  Glanton,  and  Edmund  Hook,  against 
John  Spenser  and  Katherine  his  wife,6  and  another  in  1427  by  Thomas 

'Dom.  ii.  317.  Baldwin  de  Burgate  -  only  child  of  Robert 

"Chart.  Rolls,  56  Hen.  III.  3.  |       de  Swynford. 

3  Feet  of  Fines,  29  Edw.  I.  42.  Peter  de  Burgate 

4  The  pedigree  of  Sir  William  Burgate  as  | 

given   in   the  Collectanea  Top.  et  Sir  William  de  Burgate,  d.  1409. 

Gen.  ii.  130,  is—  5Feet  of  Fines,  16  Edw.  III.  23. 

•Feet  of  Fines,  3  Hen.  V.  24. 


BURGATE.  245 

Bryghtyene,  clerk,  and  John  Bolton,  against  John  Tirell  and  Katherine 
his  wife.1  The  manor  certainly  seems  to  have  gone  in  shares,  but  even  the 
shares  are  not  certain,  for  Davy  informs  us  that  in  1479  John  Broughton 
had  a  moiety,  his  mother  being  Elizabeth,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Robert 
Stonham  and  Catherine  his  wife,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Sir  William  Bur- 
gate — consequently  another  daughter  is  assigned  to  Sir  William. 

The  share  of  John  Rookwood,  whatever  it  was,  passed  on  his  death  in 
1423  to  his  son  and  heir,  John,  and  on  his  death  without  issue  to  his  brother 
and  heir,  William  Rookwood  (who  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  Henry 
Coggeshall,  Knt.),  and  later  to  his  cousin,  Thomas  Rookwood,  who  released 
to  Robert  Knyvet  and  John  West  a  moiety  in  1486,  but  in  1522  we  find 
Elizabeth  Rookwood,  widow,  holding  for  life.  That  John  Broughton  had 
a  moiety  is  certain,  for  he  died  seised  of  it  in  1479,*  and  his  widow,  Anna 
Broughton,  two  years  later.3 

This  moiety  passed  to  Sir  Robert  Broughton,  son  and  heir  of  John,  and 
on  Sir  Robert's  death  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Broughton,  who  died  in 
1517.*  In  1545  the  manor  was  granted  to  Thomas  Bacon.5 

Thomas  Bacon  had  licence  in  1549  to  alien  to  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  the 
Lord  Keeper.  He  no  doubt  acquired  the  manor  in  moieties,  one  moiety  in 
1564  under  a  fine  levied  of  it  by  him  against  Sir  William  Poulett  and  Agnes 
his  wife.,6  and  the  other  under  a  fine  levied  by  him  the  following  year  against 
Sir  Henry  Cheyne.7  We  meet  in  1571  with  a  fine  levied  by  Sir  Nicholas 
Bacon  and  others  against  Robert  Rokewood  and  others  of  a  moiety.5  Sir 
Nicholas  Bacon  died  in  1579,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  Bart.,  and  he  was  lord  in  1597,'  and  the  descent  of  the 
manor  is  given  in  the  Rawlinson  MSS.  in  the  Bodleian.10 

From  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  the  Lord  Keeper,  this  manor  has  devolved 
in  the  same  course  of  descent  as  the  Manor  of  Hinderclay,  in  Blackbourn,  and 
is  now  held  by  George  Holt  Wilson,  of  Redgrave  Hall. 

Arms  of  BURGATE  :  Paly  of  6  Arg.  and  Sa. 

MANOR  OF  HICHAM. 

We  have  little  information  respecting  this  manor  save  that  it  was  held 
by  Sir  James  Hobart,  Knt.,  who  died  seised  of  it  in  1516,  when  it  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Walter  Hobart,  from  whom  on  his  death  in  1541  it 
went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry  Hobart."  A  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor 
in  1573  by  Henry  Woodnouse  against  Milo  Hobart,'2  and  another  in  1579 
by  Richard  Davye  and  others  against  the  said  Milo  Hobart.13 

This  is  probably  the  manor  referred  to  in  the  Calendar  of  Suffolk 
Fines  as  the  Manor  of  "Hegh  Hamhale,  with  appurtenances  in  Burgate, 
Gyssingham  and  Mellis,"  levied  in  1328  by  Robert,  son  of  Herbert  Weylaund 
and  Isabella  his  wife  against  Simon  de  Heyford.'4 

'Feet  of  Fines,  5  Hen.  VI.  22.  against     Robert     Rokewood     and 

*A    moiety    of    Burgate    Manor,    John  others.     Fine,  Easter,  5  Eliz. 

Broughton.  I.P.M.,  19  Edw.  IV.  46.  'Fine,   Easter,  7  Eliz. 

3I.P.M.,  21  Edw.  IV.  44.  8  Fine,  Mich.  13  Eliz. 

4  See  Manor  of  Denston  Hall,  in  Risbridge  9Rawl.  MSS.  B.  80. 

Hundred.  IORawl.   B.   319. 

Particulars   for   Grant,   37   Hen.    VIII.,  "See    Manor    of    Oulton,    Lothingland 

D.K.R.  9  App.  ii.  p.  162.  Hundred. 

'Fine,   Mich.  6  Eliz.     A  moiety  of  the  "Fine,  Hil.  15  Eliz. 

manor  is  included  in  a  fine  levied  "Fine,  Trin.  21  Eliz. 

in    1563    by    Christopher    Haydon  '« Feet  of  Fines,  2  Edw.  III.  19. 


246  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

COTTON. 

HERE  were  two  manors  in  this  place  in  Saxon  times.  The 
first  was  held  by  18  freemen  ;  over  one  Alwin  by  name,  with 
10  acres,  the  abbot  had  half  commendation,  and  consisted 
of  i  carucate  and  15  acres  of  land,  3  ploughteams,  and  I 
acre  of  meadow  valued  at  IDS.  The  Domesday  tenant  was 
Earl  Ralph,  and  the  lands  were  kept  by  Goodrich,  the 
steward,  in  hand  for  the  King.  The  value  then  was 
6s.  8d.  The  soc  belonged  to  the  King  and  Earl.  It  was  6  quarentenes 
and  8  perches  long,  and  6  quarentenes  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  I2d.  The 
Survey  says :  "  And  the  Hundred  bears  witness  that  in  truth  the  King  and 
the  Earl  had  the  soc  and  sac  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor.  But  the  men  of 
that  town  bear  witness  that  Burchard  had  soc  in  like  manner  over  the 
freemen  as  over  his  own  villeins ;  and  they  have  not  any  testimony  except 
themselves  ;  and  yet  they  will  prove  it  by  every  mean?." 

Also  among  these  lands  of  Earl  Ralph  were  four  more  holdings  in  this 
place.  The  first  consisted  of  10  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  and  wood 
sufficient  for  2  hogs,  valued  at  2od.,  included  in  the  valuation  of  Mendlesham, 
formerly  held  by  half  a  freeman,  and  the  second  of  5  acres,  valued  at  I2d., 
which  had  formerly  been  held  by  2  freewomen  under  Burchard's  commen- 
dation. The  third  consisted  of  an  acre  and  a  half,  valued  at  3<£.,  formerly 
held  by  a  bordar  under  Burchard's  commendation.  The  fourth  holding  con- 
sisted of  8  acres,  half  a  ploughteam,  wood  sufficient  to  support  2  hogs,  and 
half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  2s.,  held  in  the  Confessor's  time  by  three 
freemen  under  Burchard's  commendation.  Also  a  church  with  n  acres 
valued  at  2s.  The  soc  belonged  to  the  King  and  Earl.1 

More  holdings  in  this  place  were  those  of  Robert  Malet.  The  first 
consisted  of  20  acres,  half  a  ploughteam,  wood  sufficient  to  support  4  hogs, 
half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  55.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  a 
freeman  under  commendation  to  Edric,  and  been  valued  at  40^.  Under 
him  3  freemen  held  5  acres,  valued  at  10  penny  pieces.  In  the  same  township 
were  7  acres,  half  a  ploughteam,  and  wood  sufficient  to  support  2  hogs, 
valued  at  14^.,  formerly  held  by  a  freeman  under  Edric's  commendation. 
All  this  was  valued  at  2 is. 

The  second  manor  was  held  by  Robert  Malet,  and  consisted  of  30  acres, 
i  ploughteam  (which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  was  reduced  to  half  a 
team),  i  acre  of  meadow,  and  wood  sufficient  to  support  6  hogs.  In  the 
time  of  the  Confessor  this  had  been  held  by  a  freeman  under  commendation 
to  Lewin  of  Bacton.  There  were  also  16  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam, 
valued  at  IDS.,  formerly  held  by  three  freemen  under  commendation,  the 
soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  Earl.2 

In  the  ?ame  township  were  also  8  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at 
45.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  Earl.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by 
Teu,  half  under  commendation  to  Edric,  the  King's  provost,  and  half  under 
commendation  to  the  predecessor  of  Malet.3 

Belonging  to  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  Bury  were  2  holdings,  one  of  8 
acres,  valued  at  i6d.,  belonging  to  Ashfield,  formerly  held  by  a  villein  ;  the 
other  of  3  acres,  formerly  held  by  3  freemen  in  the  abbot's  soc  and  under 
his  commendation.4 

•Dom.  ii.  2856,  286,  2866.  3Dom.   ii.   3226. 

'Dom.  ii.  3096.  «Dom.  ii.  3706. 


COTTON.  247 


Belonging  to  Richard,  son  of  Earl  Gilbert,  were  7  acres,  valued  at 
held  by  Walter  the  deacon,  and  formerly  by  Fader.1 

There  was  a  small  estate  belonging  to  Hugh  de  Montfort,  consisting  of 
20  acres,  i  ploughteam  (which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  had  become  half  a 
team),  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  and  wood  to  support  2  hogs.  And  it  is 
included  in  the  valuation  of  the  demesne  of  Newton.  It  had  been  held  in 
the  time  of  the  Confessor  by  a  freeman  Saxwin,  under  Burchard's  commen- 
dation.3 

MANOR  OF  COTTON  BRISE  WORTH. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  Robert  Malet  at  the  time  of  the  Survey,  the 
time  of  Edw.  I.,  and  of  William  de  Briseworth. 

In  1300  we  find  on  the  Patent  Rolls  a  commission  issued  on  complaint 
by  this  William  de  Briseworth  that  Roger  Rokermi,  of  Beccles,  and  Isabella 
his  wife,  Robert,  son  of  Roger  Rokermi,  John  Cumpeigne  of  Cotton,  Thomas 
Osemund  and  Andrew  Woderoweof  Cotton,  Adam  Aunger  of  Wetheringsett, 
William  Neel  of  Thornham  Parva,  Henry  Aired  of  Mellis,  Robert  Derled  of 
Brockford,  John  de  Gerardeville,  of  Stoke,  and  John  de  Stowe  Market,  and 
others,  entered  hisManor  of  Cotton,  cut  down  trees,  and  carried  them  and  other 
goods  away.3  At  the  beginning  of  the  isth  century  the  manor  was  vested 
in  Robert  Hemenhale,  from  whom  it  passed  to  Sir  William  Wolfe,  who  was 
lord  in  1437. 

In  1447  the  manor  was  vested  in  William  de  la  Pole,  Duke  of  Suffolk, 
who  died  seised  of  it  in  1448.  His  son  John,  2nd  Duke  of  Suffolk,  was  lord  in 
1488,  and  he  in  1490  granted  a  lease  of  it  to  William  Pratyman.  It  subse- 
quently passed  to  the  Crown,  and  in  1511  was  held  by  Sir  Sampson  Lowe, 
for  he  held  a  court  for  the  manor  on  gth  July  this  year.  Later  we  find  the 
manor  in  King  Hen.  VIII.,  who  probably  granted  it  to  Charles  Brandon, 
Duke  of  Suffolk,  for  he  held  in  1537,  as  ^s  vear  he  granted  Cotton  Hall 
to  Thomas  Pratyman  for  99  years.  In  1539  Hen.  VIII.  was  lord,  and 
granted  the  manor  in  1541  to  Anne  of  Cleves,  who  also  held  the  Bacton 
Manor.  In  1558  or  1559  i*  was  granted  by  the  Queen  to  Thomas,  Duke  of 
Norfolk,  who  had  licence  to  alien  in  1561  to  Sir  John  Tyrell,  of  Gipping. 
The  transaction  was  in  reality  an  exchange,  Sir  John  granting  all  his  right 
in  the  Manors  of  Marshalls,  at  Barham,  in  Norfolk,  with  divers  lands  there 
for  the  Manors  of  Cotton  and  Bacton. 

On  Sir  John  Tyrell's  death  in  1573  this  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Sir  John  Tyrell,  who  made  a  lease  of  the  manor  with  that  of  Cotton 
Hempnalls,  to  his  brother,  Thomas  Tyrell,  by  deed  dated  ist  Oct.  31  Eliz. 
[1589].  On  the  death  of  Sir  John  in  1590  without  issue  the  manor  passed  to 
his  brother  and  heir,  Thomas  Tyrell.4 

He  had  licence  in  1592  to  alien  to  William  Pretyman,  jun.,  and  effected 
the  sale  the  following  year.5  William  Pretyman  held  his  first  court  i7th 
Sept.  1594,  and  married  Margaret,  daughter  of  William  Longe,  of  Cotton. 
He  died  and  was  buried  at  Bacton,  4th  July,  1617,*  when  the  manor  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  Peter  Pretyman.  He  married  ist  Anne,  daughter  of 
Thomas  Harwell,  of  Felsham,  and  2ndly  Elizabeth  Wilson,  and  died  in 

'Dora.  ii.  391.  Tyrell,   however,   held   one    court 

2Dom.  ii.  408.  for   this  manor,   viz.,   on   Friday, 

J  Pat.  Rolls,  28  Edw.  I.  286.  23rd  Apl.  23  Eliz.  (1581). 

4  See  Gipping  Manor,  in  Stow  Hundred.  5Fine,  Hil.  35  Eliz. 

Lady  Mary  Corbett,  widow  of  John  6Will,  3rd  July,  1617.     I.P.M.,  15  Jac. 


248  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Aug.  1636,'  when  the  manor  passed  by  his  will  to  his  son,  George  Pretyman, 
to  whom  his  cousin  left  the  Manor  of  Old  Newton,  in  Stow  Hundred.  He 
held  his  first  court  for  this  manor  26th  Oct.  1636,  and  levied  a  fine  25th 
Feb.  1639.'  In  1658  he  entailed  his  property  on  Peter,  his  heir,  with 
remainder  to  his  sons  Thomas  and  Tyrell.  He  died  i8th  July,  i688,3  and 
the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Peter  Pretyman,  who  held  his  first 
court  in  1688.  He  married  Frances,  2nd  daughter  and  coheir  of  Samuel 
Baron,  M.D.,  of  Lynn,  Norfolk,  and  died  6th  Oct.  1705,  when  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  George  Pretyman,  who  married  Elizabeth, 
daughter  and  coheir  of  Edward  Garneys,  of  Redesham  Hall,  and  died  3rd 
Sept.  1727,*  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son,  George  Pretyman,  who  held 
his  first  court  i8th  Oct.  1727,  and  died  in  1732,  when  the  manor  passed  to 
his  widow,  Jane  Pretyman,  who  held  her  first  court  the  same  year,  and  died  in 
1738,  when  the  lordship  vested  in  her  son,  Baron  Pretyman,  who  held  his  first 
court  23rd  Oct.  1738,  and  died  in  1758,  when  the  manor  passed,  under  his  will, 
to  his  natural  son,  John  Jacob,  who  was  lord  in  1770.  About  1776  the 
manor  was  purchased  for  £1,000  by  Charles  Maverley  before  a  Master 
in  Chancery  in  a  suit,  Jacob  v.  Braham. 

Edward  Venn  seems  to  have  purchased,  and  died  in  1830,  when  the  manor 
went  to  Edward  Beaumont  Venn. 

In  1885  the  manor  belonged  to  C.  Tyrell. 

Cotton  Hall,  though  now  a  farmhouse,  is  an  ancient  mansion  encom- 
passed by  a  broad  and  deep  moat,  which  appears  to  have  been  walled  on 
both  sides.  A  gold  cup  was  found  in  the  moat  about  120  years  ago,  and 
a  curious  old  brass  key  was  discovered  about  the  year  1850.  The  Cotton 
court  rolls  were  acquired  by  the  late  H.  Trigg  at  the  sale  of  the  effects  of 
Professor  Babington,  and  were  deposited  by  his  coheirs  and  daughters  in 
the  Moyses  Hall  Museum,  Bury  St.  Edmunds.  The  Rolls  are  :  9  mem- 
brances,  t.  Edw.  IV.  [i8th  Feb.  1469  to  2ist  Apl.  1482] ;  i  membrance, 
Rich.  III.  [29th  Aug.  1483];  —  membrances,  Hen.  VIII.;  5  mem.,  Edw.  VI. 
1553  Mary;  i  mem.  in  men  56.  Edw.  VI.;  7th  Aug.  1553;  Eliz.  Oct.  1562; 
Trin.  1562  ;  4th  May,  1563  ;  Oct.  1563  ;  6th  Dec.  1563  ;  26th  Jan.  1564 ; 
Wilsim,  1564  ;  6th  Oct.  1564  ;  isth  Nov.  1564  ;  I5th  March,  1565  ;  2oth 
Sept.  1565  ;  28th  Oct.  1565  ;  4th  Dec.  1565  ;  25th  March,  1566  ;  6th  Aug. 

1566  ;    2nd  Sept.  1566  ;    6th  Oct.  1566  ;    24th  Feb.  1567  ;    25th  March, 

1567  ;  loth  June,  1567  ;  6th  Oct.  1567  ;  i8th  March,  1568  ;  26th  May,  1568 ; 
21  st  Sept.  1568  ;   3oth  Dec.  1568  ;  25th  March,  1569  ;    27th  Sept.  1569  ; 
(§aP)  J  J3th  Nov.  1577  ;  i2th  Dec.  1577  ;  23rd  Jan.  1578  ;  23rd  Apl.  1581 ; 
24th  Oct.  1581 ;   26th  March,  1583  ;   6th  Oct.  1583  ;   25th  March,  1584 ; 
6th  Oct.  1584  ;  6th  Oct.  1584  ;  6th  Oct.  1585 ;  26th  March,  1586  ;  Easter, 
J587  ;   I3th  June,  1587 ;   I7th  Oct.  1587  ;    2ist  March,  1588  ;    isth  Apl. 
1588  ;   6th  Oct.  1588  ;   26th  March,  1589  ;   27th  Aug.  1589;   28th  March, 
1590-1  ;  Nov.  1590  ;  i6th  Sept.  1591  ;  28th  Sept.  1591  ;   I7th  Sept.  1594  ; 
I7th  Sept.  1595  ;   27th  Sept.  1596  ;   6th  Oct.  1597  ;   gth  Oct.  1598  ;   2nd 
Oct.,  1599  ;  2nd  March,  1600  ;  7th  Oct.  1600  ;  2oth  Sept.  1601  ;  2oth  Sept. 
1602  ;    I2th  Oct.  1604 ;   4th  Apl.  1605  ;    20th  Aug.  1605  ;   gth  Oct.  1605  ; 
8th  Apl.  1606  ;  i6th  Oct.  1606  ;  20th  May,  1607  ;  ist  Oct.  1607  ;  2nd  Apl. 
1608  ;  4th  Oct.  1608  ;  I7th  Oct.  1609  ;  3rd  Oct.  1610  ;  8th  Oct.  1611 ;  7th 
Apl.  1612  ;  6th  Oct.  1612  ;  3ist  March,  1613  ;  4th  Oct.  1613  ;  4th  Oct.  1614  ; 
3ist  Oct.  1615  ;   gth  Oct.  1616 ;   8th  Oct.  1617  ;   26th  March,  1618  ;   6th 
Oct.  1618  ;  4th  Oct.  1619  ;  I2th  Apl.  1620  ;  3rd  Oct.  1620  ;  nth  Apl.  1621 ; 

'Will,  7th  Aug.  1636,  proved  gth  Feb.  1637.         JWill,   I4th    March,   1686,  proved    22nd 

I.P.M.,  12  Car.  Aug.  1688. 

'Fine,  15  Car.  I.  pt.  ii.  10.  'See  Manor  of  Bacton,  in  this  Hundred. 


COTTON.  249 

5th  Oct.  1621 ;  ist  Apl.  1622  ;  2nd  Oct.  1622  ;  ;th  Apl.  1623  ;  ist  Oct.  1623; 
22nd  Oct.  1623  5  6th  Oct.  1624  ;  loth  Apl.  1625  ;  loth  Oct.  1625  ;  26th 
Apl.  1626;  3rd  Oct.  1626;  2yth  March,  1627  ;  8th  Oct.  1627;  ist  Oct.  1828; 
ist  Oct.  1629  ;  igth  April,  1630  ;  2nd  Oct.  1630  ;  4th  Oct.  1631  ;  8th  Oct. 
1632  ;  ist  March,  1633  ;  !4tn  Oct.  1633 ;  30th  Sept.  1634  ',  8th  Oct.  1636  ; 
22nd  Oct.  1636  ;  6th  Oct.  1637  ;  I7th  Oct.  1638  ;  2nd  Oct.  1639  ;  I4th 
Oct.  1640 ;  i8th  Oct.  1641 ;  igth  July,  1642 ;  3rd  Oct.  1642 ;  igth  Oct.  1643 ; 
27th  Nov.  1642  ;  I4th  Oct.  1644  ;  2oth  Oct.  1645  ;  23rd  Dec.  1645  ;  8th 
Oct.  1646 ;  nth  Oct.  1647  ;  2nd  Oct.  1649  ;  i2th  Nov.  1649  >  9*h  Oct. 
1650  ;  I5th  Oct.  1651  ;  3rd  Dec.  1651  ;  22nd  Oct.  1652  ;  i8th  Oct.,  1653  ; 
20th  Oct.  1654  ;  3rd  April,  1656  ;  3rd  Nov.  1656  ;  ist  Oct.  1657  ;  I4th 
April,  1658  ;  i8th  Oct.  1659  ;  24th  Oct.  1660  ;  7th  Apl.  1662  ;  ist  Sept. 
1662  ;  24th  Sept.  1662  ;  25th  Aug.  1663  ;  ist  May,  1665  ;  i6th  Oct.  1665  ; 
28th  March,  1666;  ist  May,  1666;  25th  March,  1667;  igth  Aug.  1667;  15th 
Oct.  1667  ;  28th  July,  1668;  26th  Oct.  1668;  23rd  Aug.  1670  ;  i6th  May, 
1671  ;  ist  Oct.  1672  ;  27th  Jan.  1673  ;  4th  May,  1675  ;  23rd  Aug.  1675  ; 
5th  Sept.  1676  ;  loth  Sept.  1677  '>  J5tn  Oct-  l678  ;  i6th  Dec.  1678  ;  29th 
Sept.  1679  ;  3rd  March,  1679-80  ;  23rd  Aug.  1680  ;  23rd  Aug.  1680  ;  22nd 
April,  1681  ;  3ist  Oct.  1681  ;  I7th  April,  1683  ;  8th  Oct.  1683  ;  6th  Oct. 
1685  ;  2ist  May,  1686  ;  3rd  Apr.  1687  ;  I2th  Oct.  1688  ;  26th  Oct.  1688  ; 
22nd  Oct.  1689  ;  28th  Oct.  1690  ;  8th  May,  1691 ;  6th  Oct.  1691 ;  2ist 
Oct.  1692  ;  gth  Oct.  1693  ;  igth  Oct.  1695  ;  gth  July,  1697  ;  23rd  Jan. 
1699  J  3rd  Feb.  1701 ;  i6th  Sept.  1702  ;  27th  Apl.  1703  ;  loth  Oct.  1703  ; 
9th  May,  1704  ;  28th  April,  1705  ;  I3th  Oct.  1705  ;  I7th  May,  1709  ;  25th 
Oct.  1711  ;  28th  Sept.  1714  ;  loth  Nov.  1714  ;  I4th  Oct.  1715  ;  24th  Nov. 
1715  ;  I5th  May,  1718  ;  loth  Apl.  1719  ;  i6th  Oct.  1719  ;  I3th  Jan.  1720  ; 
4th  Aug.  1721 ;  3rd  Oct.  1721 ;  25th  Oct.  1721 ;  igth  June,  1722  ;  igth 
July,  1722  ;  2ist  May,  1724 ;  igth  Nov.  1724 ;  I7th  Dec.  1724 ;  i2th 
Oct.  1725  ;  25th  Oct.  1726  ;  25th  Oct.  1726  ;  i6th  Feb.  1726  ;  I3th  June 
1727  ;  i8th  Oct.  1727  ;  23rd  April,  1728- ;  3rd  Oct.  1728  ;  I2th  June,  1729  ; 
22nd  Oct.  1729  ;  2nd  Oct.  1730  ;  5th  Oct.  1731  ;  I7th  Dec.  1731  ;  25th 
Jan.  1731-2  ;  6th  Oct.  1732  ;  3ist  Oct,  1732  ;  ist  Jan.  1732-3  ;  2gth 
Jan.  1733  ;  3rd  June,  1733  ;  25th  July,  1735  ;  30th  Sept.  1734  ;  2nd 
June,  1735  ;  2oth  Oct.  1735  ;  8th  Nov.  1736  ;  3oth  Nov.  1736  ;  22nd 
Dec.  1736  ;  20th  Oct.  1738  ;  loth  Sept.  1739  ;  24th  Oct.  1739  ;  "gth  Feb. 
1739-40  ;  i3th  Oct.  1740  ;  22nd  Dec.  1740  ;  igth  Oct.  1741 ;  ist  Nov. 
1742  ;  23rd  Nov.  1742  ;  I5th  Aug.  1743  ;  2ist  Nov.  1743  ;  i6th  May, 
1744  ;  2gth  Aug.  1744  ;  4th  Oct.  1744  ;  I2th  Nov.  1744  ;  3ist  Oct.  1745  ; 
I3th  Oct.  1746  ;  igth  Oct.  1747  ;  7th  March,  1747-8  ;  24th  Oct.  1748  ;  I7th 
March,  1748-9  ;  loth  Oct.  1749  ;  27th  April,  1750  ;  igth  May,  1750  ;  2nd 
July,  1750  ;  2nd  Oct.  1750  ;  8th  Nov.  1730  ;  22nd  Oct.  1753  ;  2oth  Oct. 
1755  ;  ist  Nov.  1756  ;  igth  July,  1770  ;  2Oth  Aug.  1770  ;  2nd  June,  1772  ; 
30th  May,  1774  ;  20th  July,  1775  ;  loth  Oct.  1775  ;  Jan.  I77g-8o  ;  i8th 
Sept.  1780  ;  loth  June,  1782  ;  2nd  Nov.  1782  ;  7th  Feb.  1783  ;  I2th  May, 
1783  ;  20th  Apl.  1784  ;  nth  April,  1785  ;  I3th  June,  1785  ;  23rd  June, 
1786  ;  igth  May,  1786  ;  I7th  Feb.  1787  ;  2nd  April,  I78g  ;  3oth  March, 
i7go  ;  4th  May,  i7gi ;  28th  June,  i7gi  ;  7th  April,  I7g2  ;  4th  May,  I7g3  ; 
8th  April,  I7g4  ;  ist  July,  I7g4  ;  28th  July,  1794  ;  i8th  April,  1796  ;  i7th 
May,  I7gg  ;  3rd  April,  1801  ;  i4th  May,  1802  ;  3rd  May,  1804 ;  3rd  May, 
1806  ;  4th  Dec.  1807  ;  6th  May,  1808. 

Compotus  Rolls  of  Cotton  Manor  in  1402-3,  will  be  found  amongst  the 
Harl.  Rolls  in  the  British  Museum.1  Also  in  1438-9." 

' Harl.  Rolls,  A.  37.  'Harl.  Rolls,  K.  24. 

HI 


250  THE   MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

The  customs  of  the  manor  were  :— 

Custom  to  the  youngest ;  i.e.,  copyhold  went  to  the  youngest  son,  according 
to  the  custom  of  "  Borough  English,"  and  the  land  held  f n .  , 
to  the  eldest ;'  examples,  Rolls,  1469,  1599,  1657-1662,  and  two  cases 
as  late  as  1729  ;  but  this  may  be  taken  as  "  custom,"  when  the  father 
died  intestate,  because  we  find  in  a  Roll  of  1599  tnat  the  eldest  son  is 
admitted  heir,  according  to  "  common  law "  by  direction  of  the 
father. 

COMMON  FINE  went  to  the  lord,  and  in  a  roll  of  Edw.  IV.  we  learn  that 
the  tenements  which  paid  the  fine  were  then  part  of  the  lord's  land. 

A°  9  Edw.  IV.  (The  Jury),  who  say  that  they  give  nothing  by 
-  way  of  common  fine,  because  the  tenements   which  were 

formerly  wont  to  give  and  pay  the  common  fine  are  now 
and  have  been  for  several  years  past  in  the  lord's  hands. 

TIMBER  RESERVED,  under  fine,  if  cut  on  copyhold  lands  without  the  lord's 
licence.  Early  example,  A°  16  Edw.  IV.,  m.  4. 

"  Reserving  to  the  lords  all  timber  growing  in  and  upon  the 
aforesaid  pasture  by  them  felled  or  cut  down  for  the  future." 
There  are  several  late  examples  ;   but  earlier  ones,  1641-65-72. 
The  father  is  daughter's  heir.    Vide  rolls  A°  8  Edw.  IV.  8,  1656. 

HERIOT. — This  Danish  custom  is  attached  to  one  tenement  called  Boles* 
and  8  acres,  and  is  mentioned  as  early  as  a  court  held  1469,  which 
quotes  another  held  1417. 

It  is  no  longer  the  warrior's  horse  and  armour  of  Saxon  times,  but 
in  1658  it  is  the  price  of  a  horse,  40$. ;  later  the  "  service  "  at  death 
of  owner  becomes,  "  ye  price  of  a  fat  red  fallow  heifer,"  and  "  honest 
Tom  "3  in  1724  records  the  service  "  at  ye  price  of  a  silver  tankard." 

LICENCES. — A  licence  was  required  from  the  lord  by  payment  of  "fine,"  not 
only  for  cutting  timber,  as  we  have  said,  but  also — 

To  join  two  pieces  of  land,  "ditch  out,"  it  was  called.    Vide  1658. 

To  alienate  land,  A°  17  Edw.  IV.    Thos.  Tyrell,  1542. 

To  lease  copyhold. 

To  cut  a  dyke.    A°  19  Eliz. 

To  take  in  waste.    Vide  1705. 

No  meadow  land  ploughed  up. 

FINES. — For  "  non  service  " — not  attending  the  Manor  Court  3^.,  1732.  For 
attornment  2d.  "As  relief  "  on  succession  to  free  land,  the  amount 
of  one  year's  rent.  This  "  relief "  seems  to  have  been  raised  in  the 
i8th  century  to  an  arbitrary  amount,  at  the  will  of  the  lord,  i.e., 
at  two  years'  rent.4 

PRIVILEGES. — The  Manor  of  Cotton  Bresworth  carried  with  it  the  following 
privileges  : — 

COURT  LEET,  or  court  of  justice  in  the  King's  name.  This  court  was 
attached  only  to  the  greater  Barons'  rights,  and  did  not  belong  to 
either  of  the  Manors  of  Hempnall  and  Skeith.  See  bounds  of  jurisdiction, 
1669. 

FRANKPLEDGE. — 1584. 

ASSIZE  OF  BEER. — Many  examples,  Oct.  1473. 

•See  foL  8.  3 Thomas  Martin,  of  Palgrave,  Steward. 

'See  fol.  8.  «Vide  "Case,"  dated  1782. 


COTTON.  251 

FREE  WARREN. — From  mention  of  the  lord's  game  and  a  hare  warren. 
"  Leporum,"  A°  34  Hen.  VIII.  (?)  Grant  to  Robt.  de  Thorpe  1266. 

»  _,  "  That  Thos.   Palmer  is  a  common  hunter  and  poacher 

in   the   hare-warren   within   the   afforesaid   lordship,   and 

IGr  vefy  often  breaks  the  hedges  of  the  lord's  tenants.    Fined 

I2d.,  and  told  not  to  do  it  again  under  penalty  of  6s.  8d." 
A  "  hare- warren  "  is  mentioned  in  Domesday  (Birch). 

WASTE. — The  lord  could  fine  any  tenant  who  did  not  keep  his  tenement 
and  enclosures  (ditches  included)  in  proper  repair.  A°  17  Edw.  IV.  m  5, 
proceedings  in  court. 

"  and  that  Margaret  Cook  has  not  repaired  her  tenement  called 

'  Pepres,'    for   default    in    repairing  the  woodwork  and  plaster  ; 

through    which    default     the    aforesd.     tenement    is    in   great 

delapidation." 

STRAYS. — All  beasts  without  owners,  after  having  remained  in  the  manor 
for  one  year  and  a  day  were  judged  as  the  property  of  the  lord,  at  a 
certain  price.  A°  19  Eliz. ;  4  Edw.  VI.  Example,  A°  4  Edw.  VI., 
m.  2. 

"  And  that  a  horse  coloured  '  bay  '  remains  within  the  manor 
as  a  stray  (extra  de  hura),  and  proclamation  having  been  made,  after 
one  year  and  a  day,  day  is  set  to  appraise  (the  value)  at  which  it  shall  be 
taken  in  capite." 

WARD  AND  MARRIAGE. — No  doubt  a  survival  of  the  "  villeins  "  condition  in 
post  Norman  days,  when  his  female  children  could  not  be  married 
without  the  lord's  consent  to  what  was  considered  a  damage  to  the 
property.  Vide  copy  of  C' Roll,  A°,  5  Hen.  VII.  It  is  one  of  the  excep- 
tions made  by  John,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  in  his  lease  of  the  manor  to 
William  Pratyman. 

THE  PRESENTATION  TO  COTTON  CHURCH,  mentioned  in  same.  This 
presentation  remained  to  this  Manor  of  Bresworth  [Cotton]  during  the 
period  it  was  held  by  the  Pretyman  family. 

TRIAL  BY  JURY. — The  tenants  could  claim  the  right  to  be  judged  by  12 
of  their  fellow  tenants  in  all  common  law  cases,  and  this  was  no  doubt 
a  right  granted  at  an  early  date.  There  i?  an  instance  of  their  demand- 
ing an  appeal  to  this  right  of  trial  by  jury,  A°  2  Edw.  VI.,  against  a 
verdict  of  the  Court  of  Common  Pleas.  Note  change  of  name. 

"  And  now  Johan  and  Robert  [Johan  Hoggar  one  of  the 
daughters  and  heirs  of  Robert  Hoggar  defunct  and  Robert  Bacon 
his  son  and  heir]  make  protest  against  the  ruling  in  Common  Law 
of  the  high  court  of  the  Lord  King  Edward  following  this  quarrel  on 
the  death  of  an  ancestor  and  petition  proceedings  therefrom 
against  aforesaid  John  Pretyman  at  the  next  Court  (of  the  Manor) 
in  accordance  with  the  custom  of  this  manor  by  the  bailiff  sum- 
moning twelve  just  and  legal  men  tenants  of  the  said  manor, 
&c."  Also  vide  1564,  Thurbarne  v.  Pretyman. 

VILLAGES  AS  TENANTS.— Among  the  list  of  tenants,  the  towns  or 
villages  of  Eye,  Wyverstone,  and  Cotton  are  mentioned  as  owing  suit 
at  court,  or  rent  for  some  land.  A°  6  Eliz. 

GILDE  Hous. — The  Guild  House  of  Cotton  is  often  mentioned,  especially  at 
a  court  held  by  Tyrell.  In  1477  it  is  called  "  le  geldehous,"  used  much 
as  a  parish  room  of  to-day. 


252  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

MANOR  OF  COTTON  HEMPNALL  OR  CALDECOTT. 

Among  the  lands  of  Robert  Malet  was  a  holding  in  this  place,  consisting 
of  74  acres,  i  bordar,  i  J  ploughteams,  and  i  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  115. 
It  had  formerly  been  held  by  6  freemen  under  commendation  to  Lewin  of 
Bacton,  and  under  them  were  7  freemen  by  commendation  with  6J  acres. 
The  soc  belonged  to  the  King  and  Earl,  except  over  Ulveva  and  her  son. 
Walter  de  Dol  was  seised  on  the  day  on  which  he  made  forfeiture.1 

Belonging  to  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  was  a  holding  of 
6  acres,  under  the  abbot's  soc  and  commendation,  valued  at  I2d.,  formerly 
held  by  a  freeman.' 

All  these  do  their  customs  at  Rickinghall. 

Also  belonging  to  the  fee  of  the  abbot  was  a  holding  of  4^  acres,valued 
at  izd.,  formerly  belonging  to  Aluric,  a  freeman  under  sub-commendation.3 
Among  the  lands  of  Walter  the  deacon  were  19  acres  of  Bacton  demesne 
land,  valued  at  35.  $d.  It  was  9  quarentenes  long  and  2  quarentenes  and 
5  perches  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  6d.' 

Among  the  lands  of  Hugh  de  Montfort  were  2  holdings  in  this  place. 
One  consisted  of  a  freeman  with  2j  acres,  valued  at  6d.,  the  other  3^  acres 
in  demesne,  valued  at  6d.* 

In  the  time  of  King  Hen.  I.,  Sir  Robert  de  Sackville6  held  this  lordship 
of  the  Honor  of  Eye. 

In  1266  King  Hen.  III.  confirmed  to  Robert,  son  of  John  de  Thorp, 
free  warren  in  his  demesne  here,  and  in  1272  Sir  Philip  de  Bocland  was 
lord.  In  1367  Sir  Ralph  de  Hemenhale7  held  the  manor,  and  had  a  grant  of 
free  warren  here  that  year.8  A  fine  of  this  and  Wickham  Skeyth  Manor 
was  levied  in  1369  by  Sir  Thomas  de  la  Dale,  Reg.  de  Eccles,  Adam  Hauboy, 
parson  of  Cockfield  Church,  John  de  Herlaston,  parson  of  Blaksale  Church, 
Robert  Davy  of  Ashefeld,  Thomas  del  Ook,  John  Muriel,  parson  of 
Wortham  Church,  and  William  Phelip,  against  Sir  Ralph  de  Hemenhale.9 
This  same  year,  amongst  the  Harleian  Charters,  we  find  a  writing  by  which 
William  Philip  quits  claim  to  Adam  Hauboys,  parson  of  the  Church  of 
Thorndon,  John  de  Harlestone,  parson  of  the  Church  of  Blaxhall,  and  John 
de  Pysale,  parson  of  the  Church  of  Alderton,  of  the  Manors  of  Cotton  and 
Wickham,  which  they  had  acquired  of  Richard  (sic)  de  Hemenhale.  It  is 
dated  at  Cotton  "  die  Jovis  in  vigil  S.  Bartholomaei  43  Edw.  III.  [1369].'° 
This  was  probably  by  way  of  settlement,  for  the  manors  did  not  leave  the 
Hemenhale  family. 

Sir  Ralph  de  Hemenhale  died  in  1370,' '  when  the  manor  passed  to  his 
son  and  heir,  Sir  Robert  de  Hemenhale,  who  in  1389  released  the  manors  in 
the  parishes  of  Cotton,  Wickhamskeith,  and  Yaxley  to  Sir  George  Felbrigg 
and  other  trustees,  and  all  the  possessions  of  his  father,  Sir  Ralph.  He 
married  Joan,  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  John,  son  of  Sir  William  de  la  Pole 
and  Joan  his  wife,  and  appears  to  have  died  before  1406,  when  the  manor 
passed  to  his  widow  Joan,  who  remarried  Reginald  de  Braybroke. 

Sir  Thomas  Morley,  Robert  Bacton,  John  Glemham,  and  Hugh 
Lancastre,  clerk  (no  doubt  trustees),  by  an  indenture  dated  at  Cotton,  3rd 

'Dom.  ii.  3216.  7See    Manor    of    Hemenhale,  Thornham, 

*Dom.  ii.  371.  in  this  Hundred. 

>Dom.  ii.  371.  "Chart.  Rolls,  41  Edw.  III.  2. 

4  Dom.  ii.  4266.  9  Feet  of  Fines,  42  Edw.  III.  40. 

}Dom.  ii.  408.  IOHarl.  54  G.  50. 

•See    Old    Hall,    Braiseworth,    in    this        "See  Manor  of  Hemenhale,  in  Thornham, 

Hundred.  in  this  Hundred. 


COTTON.  253 

Jan.  4  Hen.  IV.  [1402-3],  demised  the  manor  to  the  said  Joan  Braybroke  for 
the  term  of  her  life.'  And  by  an  agreement  dated  5th  July,  4th  Hen.  IV. 
[1403]  between  Sir  Reginald  de  Braybroke  and  Joan  his  wife  of  the  one  part, 
and  John  Stauntone,  John  Cokerelle  of  Orforde,  John  Berton,  clerk,  Simon 
de  Blyaunt,  and  Hugh  Lancastre,  clerk,  of  the  other  part,  an  exchange  for 
the  reversions  of  certan  manor?  in  Essex,  Oxfordshire  and  Hampshire, 
for  the  manors  of  "Cottone,Skeythe,  Boles,  and  Newtone,  was  arranged/ 
and  in  the  following  October,  by  a  deed  dated  at  Cotton  the  loth,  Simon 
Blyaunt  quit  claim  to  Hugh  Lancastre,  clerk,  all  right  in  this  manor  and  the 
manors  of  Bolys  and  Skeyth.3  By  another  writing,  dated  at  Cotton,  3rd 
Jan.  5  Hen.  IV.  [1403-4],  Sir  Thomas  de  Morley,lord  of  Morley,  Robert  Bucton, 
John  Glemham,  and  Hugh  Lancastre,  clerk,  constituted  William  Hatfield 
and  Robert  Floteman  to  deliver  seisin  to  Joan  Braybroke,  late  wife  of  Sir 
Robert  de  Hemenhale  of  the  manors  of  Cotton  and  Wickham  Skeith.4  A 
fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  in  1404  by  John  Staverton,  John  Cokerell  of 
Orford,  John  Berton,  clerk,  and  Simon  Blyant,  against  the  said  Reginald 
Bray  brook  and  Joan  his  wife.5  Under  this  fine  the  exchange  was  finally 
effected  and  the  manor  vested  in  Simon  Blyant,  or  Bleaunt,  and  this  year 
he  granted  it  to  his  son,  John  Bleaunt,  and  Agnes  his  wife,  daughter  and 
heir  of  John  Hemenhale.  They  died  without  issue.  Sir  Robert  de  Hemen- 
hale's  son  and  heir  was  William  de  Hemenhale,  an  idiot,  who  died  before 
1419,  when  his  cousin,  Ralph  de  Hemenhale,  succeeded  to  his  uncle's 
(Sir  Robert)  estates. 

In  1418  William  Wlngfield  is  said  to  have  died  seised  of  the  manor,8 
and  it  passed  to  his  widow,  Catherine,  described  as  "late  wife  of  William,  son 
of  William  Wyngefeld,"  when  she,  the  same  year,  released  it  to  John 
Horseld  and  others. 

In  1442  it  was  vested  in  Robert  Crane,  for  this  year  he  conveyed  it 
to  William  Clopton.7 

The  manor  subsequently  vested  in  Sir  John  Falstolf,  who  died  about 
1460,*  and  seems  to  have  been  vested  later  in  John  Paston,  for  it  is  mentioned 
in  his  inquisition  p.m.  in  1465.' 

A  deed  is  preserved  amongst  the  Harleian  Charters  in  the  British  Museum 
as  follows  : — 

"  Carta  Thomae  Cantuar.  Archiepiscopi,  et  aliorum  tradens  Johanni 
[de  la  Pole]  Duci  Suff.  et  10  aliis,  terras  Johannis  Fastolff  militis  ;  scilicet 
manerium  de  Cotton  vocatum  Hempnales  in  Cotton,  et  manerium  de  Skeyth 
in  Wykham  Skeyth.  Dat.  10  Jan.  8  Edw.  IV.  [1469].'" 

The  manor  passed  from  the  De  la  Poles,  no  doubt  with  the  forfeiture  of 
their  other  Suffolk  estates,  and  was  from  1522  to  1536  probably  in  Charles 
Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk.  In  1539  and  1540  it  was  in  the  Crown,  and 
was  granted  to  Anne  of  Cleves.  In  1556  it  was  vested  in  the  Crown,  and 
in  1560  a  grant  of  it  was  made  to  Thomas,  Duke  of  Norfolk.  He  had 
licence  to  alien  it  to  John  Tyrell  and  John  his  son.  In  1562  Sir  John 
Tyrell  was  called  upon  to  render  an  account  in  respect  of  the  manor  from 
the  death  of  Anne  of  Cleves."  A  little  later  we  meet  in  the  Chancery 
Proceedings  with  a  bill  by  Thomas  Colby e  against  John  Tyrrell  to  compel 

'Harl.  53  E.  36.  1  Feet  of  Fines  20  Hen.  VI.  27. 

2Harl.  47  B.  15.  'I.P.M.,  38-39  Hen.  VI.  48. 

*lb.  9I.P.M.,  6  Edw.  IV.  44. 

<Harl.  53  E.  35.  '"Harl.   430,   36. 

5  Feet  of  Fines,  5  Hen.  IV.  4.  »  Memoranda  Rolls,  4  Eliz.  Hil.  Rec.  Rot. 

6I.P.M.,  6  Hen.  V.  20.  23. 


254  ™E   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK 

admittance  to  copyholds  held  of  the  manor  of  which  the  defendant  was 
stated  to  be  lord,  and  late  the  estate  of  Robert  Colbye,  plaintiff 's  father.1  Also 
the  following  Chancery  actions  relating  to  copyholds  of  the  manor  in  the 
time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  :  John  King  v.  Sir  John  Tyrrell  and  another," 
Henry  Kynge  v.  Sir  John  Tyrrell  and  another,3  and  Robert  Rose  v.  Sir  John 
Tirrell  and  another.4 

The  manor  passed  from  Sir  John  Tyrell  to  his  son  John  in  1573,  and  in 
1589  John,  then  Sir  John  Tyrell,  made  a  lease  of  this  manor,  and  the  manor 
of  Cotton  Briseworth,  by  deed  dated  ist  Oct.  31  Eliz.  to  his  brother 
Thomas  Tyrell  for  10  years.5  On  the  son's  death  the  manor  went  in 
1591  to  his  brother  and  heir,  Thomas  Tyrell,  who  sold  to  John  Rudlande 
al.  Mathewe,  and  others,  and  they  had  licence  to  alien  the  same  year  to 
Dame  Mary  Corbett,  widow. 

In  1606  Sir  Edmund  Cleere  seems  to  have  held,  for  he  then  had  licence 
to  alien  to  John  Wroth  and  John  Binge. 

In  1802  the  manor  was  vested  in  —  Clarke,  and  in  1827  James  Matthew 
offered  it  for  sale  at  Stowmarket,  26th  July,  and  again  igth  May,  1828,' 
when  Edward  Venn  seems  to  have  purchased,  for  he  died  seised  in  1830, 
when  it  passed  to  Edward  Beaumont  Venn,  and  is  now  vested  in  George 
Frederick  Beaumont,  of  The  Lawn,  Coggeshall,  in  Essex. 

Court  Rolls  of  the  manor  are  referred  to  in  the  6th  Report  of  the  Deputy 
Keeper  of  the  Public  Records,7  and  rolls  and  rentals  for  1331  will  be  found 
amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.8 

Some  of  the  rolls  for  the  manor,  when  held  separately  from  Cotton 
Braiseworth,  are  preserved  in  Moyses  Hall  Museum,  Bury  St.  Edmunds. 

Amongst  these  rolls  are  entries  of  courts  held  28th  Oct.  1546 ;  25th 
March,  1550  ;  2oth  Oct.  1551  ;  ist  May,  1552;  Ascen.  1553  ;  5  Edw.  VI. ; 
6th  Oct.  1561  ;  Trin.  1562  ;  &c. 

Arms  of  BLYANT  :  Gu.  3  lozenges  in  fesse,  Erm.  betw.  3  martlets  Arg. 

MANOR  OF  CAMPINE'S  OR  CHAMPAINS  OR  CUMPYNS. 

In  1316  this  was  vested  in  Richard  Champaigne,  and  in  1367  Ralph 
Champaigne  and  others  released  it  to  Sir  Ralph  de  Hemenhale,  who  died 
in  1370,  when  it  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Robert  de  Hemenhale,  who 
died  before  1406,'  when  it  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  William  de  Hemen- 
hale, an  idiot,  from  whom  it  passed  to  his  cousin,  Ralph  de  Hemenhale. 

There  is  a  statement  in  the  inquisition  quod  dannum  in  1407  that 
Isabella,  Countess  of  Suffolk,  held  the  manor,  which  Simon  Blyant  sold  to 
her,  lately  belonging  to  Rad.  Hemenhale,'0  and  the  manor  is  mentioned  in 
the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Sir  Robert  de  Hemenhale  in  1407." 

In  1410  by  deed  dated  i6th  Feb.  Simon  "  Bleaunt "  of  Thornham,  granted 
the  manor  to  John  Bleaunt,  his  son,  and  Agnes  his  wife,  daughter  and  heir 
of  John  Hemenhale,  who  was  a  son  of  Ralph  de  Hemenhale,  with  remainder 
to  Walter  Deye  and  Joan  his  wife  and  their  heirs.  It  seems  to  have  gone 
afterwards  (John  and  Agnes  having  had  no  issue)  to  Walter  Deye,  who  had 
married  Joan,  eldest  daughter  of  the  said  Ralph  Hemenhale,  and  then  to  their 
daughter  Isabella,  married  to  another  Simon  Blyant,  to  whom  succeeded 
their  son  and  heir,  John  Blyant,  who  was  dead  by  1486,  when  the  manor 
went  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Blyant. 

'C.P.  i.  199  ;  C.P.  ser.  ii.  B.  xlvi.  n.  7App.  ii.  S<>. 

•CP.  ser.  ii.  B.  C.V.  3.  "Add.  Ch.  26519. 

3/6.  B.  cvi.  5.  9  See  I.Q.D.,  5  Hen.  IV.  3-7  Hen.  IV.  26. 

«/6.  B.  cliv.  6.  '"I.Q.D.,  8  Hen.  IV.  6. 

'  Lease  in  possession  o(  the  writer.  "  I. P.M.,  8  Hen.  IV.  65. 
*lptwich   Journal,  30! h   June,  1827    and 
191)1  April,  1828. 


COTTON.  255 

Davy,  however,  states  that  John  de  la  Pole,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  dis- 
possessed Simon  and  Isabel,  and  died  seised  in  1492,  when  the  manor 
passed  to  Edmund  de  la  Pole,  Earl  of  Suffolk.  This  appears  from  a 
petition  of  John  Blyant  to  Hen.  VII.,  "  that  said  Deye  and  his  wife  were 
seised  and  has  issue  Isabella  married  to  Simon  Blyant,  who  was  also 
seised,  that  after  the  death  of  the  said  Simon  and  Isabella,  John  Simon 
(son  and  heir  of  the  petitioner)  should  have  been  seised  as  son  and  heir  of 
the  said  John,  but  that  during  the  life  of  the  said  Simon,  John  late  Duke  of 
Suffolk  wrongfully  entered  the  said  manor,  and  after  his  death  Edmund 
Earl  of  Suffolk  also  entered  and  was  seised."  Petitioner  prayed  justice. 

A  manor  of  Cotton  is  certainly  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of 
William  de  la  Pole,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  in  1450.'  In  1510  we  find  from  the 
State  Papers  there  was  a  petition  for  a  commission  to  be  issued  to  enquire 
into  the  claim  of  John  "  Blyaunt  "  to  the  manor.5  The  manor  seems  to 
have  been  granted  by  the  Crown  to  Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  or  he 
had  acquired  it  in  some  other  way,  for  from  the  State  Papers  in  1538  we 
find  a  grant  by  him  to  the  Crown  in  exchange.3 

Arms  of  CHAMPAYNE  :  Arg.  3  lozenges,  Gu.  2  and  i. 

MANOR  OF  GIPSWICH. 

This  manor  was  the  lordship  of  Sir  Robert  Hemenhale,  who  died  before 
1406,  when  it  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  William  Hemenhale,  the  idiot,  and 
from  him  to  his  cousin  and  heir,  Ralph;  Hemenhale,  "  cousin  of  William  "* 
when  the  manor  went  in  the  same  course  as  the  last  manor. 

There  is  a  fine  in  1371  of  the  Manor  of  Cotton  (but  which  manor  in 
Cotton  we  cannot  say),  levied  by  Sir  William  de  Wyngefeld  and  Joan  his 
wife  against  William  Berard,  William  Charnell,  parson  of  Denyngton 
church,  Edmund,  parson  of  Horsett  church,  in  Cambridgeshire.5 

An  admission  to  land  held  of  Cotton  Manor  in  1548  will  be  found 
amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.6 


COTTON  HEMPNALLS  HALL. 


'I.P.M.,  28  Hen.  VI.  25.  "I.P.M.,  Sir  Robt.  (?)  Hemenhale,  8  Hen. 
*S.P.  2  Hen.  VIII.  1375,  1534;    4  Hen.  IV.  65. 

VIII.   3309.  5  Feet  of  Fines,  45  Edw.  III.  32. 

3S.P.  30  Hen.  VIII.  vol.  ii.  1182  (i8a).  «Add.   Ch.   19371. 


256  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 


EYE. 

(HERE  were  three  manors  held  here  in  Saxon  times,  the 
Domesday  tenant  being  Robert  Malet.  The  first  con- 
sisted of  12  carucates  of  land,  held  in  demesne  by  Robert 
Malet,  and  his  mother  held  100  acres,  I  villein,  3  bordars, 
9  socmen  with  16  acres,  and  2  ploughteams,  which  at  the 
time  of  the  Survey  were  reduced*^  i,  the  value  being 
2os.  In  Saxon  times  this  manor  was  held  by  Edric,  and 
there  were  also  38  villeins,  9  bordars,  12  serfs,  8  ploughteams  in  demesne, 
and  15  belonging  to  the  men,  and  the  other  teams  might  be  made  up  again. 
Also  50  acres  of  meadow,  wood  to  support  120  hogs,  a  mill,  fishery,  market, 
and  a  park,  and  in  the  market  25  burgesses  had  their  dwellings.  Of  live 
stock  there  were  7  rouncies,  24  beasts,  50  hogs,  and  80  sheep.  At  the  time 
of  the  Survey  the  appurtenances  of  this  manor  were  considerably  altered. 
The  villeins  were  reduced  to  20,  the  bordars  had  increased  to  16,  the  serfs 
had  disappeared,  also  the  ploughteams  in  demesne  were  reduced  to  5, 
and  those  belonging  to  the  men  to  6.  Of  live  stock  there  was  wood  to 
support  60  hogs,  there  were  i  rouncy,  no  beasts,  17  hogs,  and  90  sheep. 
Belonging  to  this  manor  were  48  socmen,  with  121  acres  of  land.  Of  these 
socmen  37  were  in  demesne,  and  Herbert  held  9  with  20  acres,  Walter  one 
with  5  acres,  and  Walter  the  engineer  one  with  16  acres.  The  whole  was 
valued  at  95.  There  were  4  ploughteams  (at  the  time  of  the  Survey  reduced 
to  3),  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  formerly  at  £15,  increased  to  £21  at 
the  time  of  the  Survey.  Edric  had  soc  and  sac  of  the  bishopric,  which  the 
bishop  ought  to  have  had.  Also  belonging  to  this  manor  in  the  time  of  the 
Confessor  were  9  freemen,  with  no  acres  of  land,  in  Edric's  soc  and  com- 
mendation, 4^  ploughteams  (reduced  to  4  at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  3 
acres  of  meadow,  and  wood  sufficient  to  support  16  hogs  (which  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey  was  reduced  to  6).  The  value  of  this  was  2os.  The  9  freemen 
were  called  Alston,  Woolrich,  Godwin,  Lewin,  Edric,  Alsey,  Alrich,  Goodrich, 
and  Dynechaie. 

In  the  same  township  Woolrich,  a  freeman  under  commendation  to 
Edric,  held  the  other  manor  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor,  consisting  of  30 
acres,  2  bordars,  and  i  ploughteam  (reduced  to  half  a  team  at  the  time  of 
the  Survey),  the  value  being  2os.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  Walter  de 
Caen  held  this  of  Robert  Malet. 

In  the  same  township  held  in  demesne  by  Robert  Malet  was  the  third 
manor,  consisting  of  120  acres,  4  bordars,  i  ploughteam  in  demesne,  4 
acres  of  meadow,  wood  sufficient  to  support  3  hogs,  the  whole  valued  at 
2os.  It  was  2j  leagues  long  and  ij  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  2s.  In  the 
time  of  the  Confessor  it  had  been  held  by  Suartric,  a  freeman  under  Harold's 
commendation,  and  in  his  soc.1  This  manor  appears  to  be  entered  again 
in  the  Domesday  Survey  under  "  Invasions  upon  the  King's  land,"  with  the 
substitution  of  "  wood  for  13  hogs,"  for  "  wood  for  3  hogs."1 

In  the  same  township  was  St.  Peter's  Church,  to  which  belonged  2 
carucates  of  free  land,  7  bordars,  i  ploughteam  in  demesne  (increased  to  3 
at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  i  ploughteam  belonging  to  the  men,  3  acres 
of  meadow,  and  i  mill,  the  whole  valued  at  40$. 3 

'  Dom.  ii.  3196.  3Dom.  ii.  3196. 

*Dom.  ii.  4496. 


EYE.  257 

MANOR  OF  EYE  OR  EYE  SODEMERE. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  Edric  in  Saxon  times,  and  of  Robert  Malet  at 
the  time  of  the  Survey,  and  he  held  until  the  time  of  Hen.  I.,  in  whose 
reign  he  was  Great  Chamberlain  of  England.  In  the  second  year  of  this 
sovereign  Malet  was  banished,  and  deprived  of  all  his  large  possessions 
in  England,  for  his  adherence  to  Robert  Curtois,  the  King's  eldest  brother, 
Duke  of  Normandy.  This  portion  of  his  estate  was  given  by  Hen.  I.  to 
Stephen,  Earl  of  Boulogne,  afterwards  King  of  England,  who  devised  it  to 
his  natural  son,  William,  Earl  of  Boulogne,  who  dying  in  1160 
without  issue,  the  manor  again  reverted  to  the  Crown.  King  Hen.  II. 
made  a  grant  of  it  to  Thomas  a  Becket,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  but 
evidently  for  a  limited  period,  as  it  was  a  little  later  granted  to  Richard, 
Earl  of  Cornwall,  son  of  King  John/  but  soon  after  returned  to  King  Rich.  I., 
who  granted  it  to  Henry,  5th  Earl  of  Brabant  and  Loveyne.  In  1207  the 
manor  was  granted  to  Henry's  son  and  heir,  Godfrey  de  Loveyne,2  but  he 
was  dead  in  1226,  when  it  seems  to  have  been  again  vested  in  Henry,  Earl 
of  Brabant,  the  father,  after  whose  death  it  appears  to  have  gone  to  Matthew 
de  Loveyne,  the  son  and  heir  of  Godfrey.  In  1229  the  Honor  was  vested 
in  Hubert  de  Burgh,3  but  the  following  year  was  granted  by  the  King  to 
Richard,  Earl  of  Cornwall,  during  pleasure.4  In  1236  Henry,  Duke  of 
"Lotharing"  seems  to  have  had  it,5  and  in  1258  Edmund,  Earl  of  Cornwall, 
son  of  the  old  holder,  Richard,  held  the  same.6  Edmund  died  in  1300, 
without  issue,7  when  the  manor  went  to  his  widow  Margaret  for  life,8  and 
in  1316  was  again  in  the  Crown,  the  following  year  being  granted  to  Hugh 
de  Audeley  and  Margaret  his  wife,  late  wife  of  Piers  de  Gaveston.  Three 
years  later  we  find  the  manor  held  in  dower  by  Isabel,  Queen  of  Edw.  I. 

In  1330  King  Edw.  III.  gave  the  manor  to  John  de  Eltham,  Earl  of 
Cornwall,  his  brother,9  and  the  following  year  we  find  on  the  Patent  Rolls 
a  gift  to  John  de  Eltham  in  enlargement  of  the  late  grant  to  him  (there  stated 
to  be  of  Eye  and  Haughley  Manors,  and  the  hamlets  of  Thorndon  and 
Clopton)  of  all  corn,  livery  of  servants,  in  the  same  manors  at  the  time  of 
their  surrender  to  the  King  by  Queen  Isabella.10  On  the  Earl's  death  without 
issue  the  King  granted  the  manor  in  1337 1°  Robert  de  Ufford,  Earl  of  Suffolk. 
The  grant  will  be  found  on  the  Patent  Rolls,  and  is  of  Eye  Castle,  town, 
manor,  Honor,  and  Thorndon  Manor,  of  the  yearly  value  of  £207. 12S.  ojd.,  the 
Hundred  of  Hartismere  and  Stoweasof  the  yearly  value  of  £20,  and  the  rever- 
sion of  the  Manor  of  Benhall,  then  held  by  Eleanor,  late  wife  of  Guy  Ferre, 
of  the  yearly  value  of  £133.  6s.  Sd.11  The  order  to  deliver  the  above  to  him 
is  also  on  the  Patent  Rolls  for  this  year."  From  an  entry  on  the  Patent 
Rolls  two  years  later  we  find  that  the  grant  to  Robert  de  Ufford  was  even 
more  extensive,  for  the  recital  of  the  last  grant  there  shows  that  the  town 
and  manor  of  Haughley,  of  the  value  of  £126.  55.  7%d.;  were  included,  and 
also  £253.  6s.  8^.,  at  the  Exchequer,  until  the  reversion  of  the  Manor  of 
Benhall  should  fall  in  ;  £11.  35.  qd.  of  rent  from  a  fee  farm  and  155.  of  rent 
from  a  yearly  scutage  paid  at  the  Exchequer  by  John,  son  of  Robert  de 

1  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer  concerning         ?  I.P.M.,  28  Edw.  I.  44,  50. 

.   serjeanty.  8The  Castle  and  Manor  were  extended  at 

"Pat.  Rolls,  9  John,  2,  5;  Close  Rolls,                   473.  8|d.  yearly.     Close  Rolls,  29 

15  John,  pt.  ii.  8.  Edw.  I.  14. 

3  Chart.  Rolls,  13  Hen.  III.  la.  9  Pat.  Rolls,  4  Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  4. 

4  Close  Rolls,  14  Hen.  III.  17,  9.  I0  Pat.  Rolls,  5  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  27^.  pt.  ii.  9. 
s  Pat.  Rolls,  20  Hen.  III.  n,  15.  "  Pat.  Rolls,  ii  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  15 ;  pt.  ii.  7. 
6  H.R.  ii.  186,  193.  "  Pat.  Rolls,  II  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  15. 

JI 


258  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Thorpe,  for  a  moiety  of  the  Manor  of  Combs,  and  a  quit  rent  of  £11.  i8s.  4^., 
of  rent  due  by  the  Earl  for  the  other  moiety  of  the  said  manor.1  In  1343 
a  commission  was  issued  to  enquire  as  to  the  fees  and  services  pertaining 
to  the  manors  and  estates  granted  as  above  to  Robert,  Earl  of  Ufford, 
in  tail  male,  on  his  being  created  Earl  of  Suffolk,  as  these  manors  and 
estates  would  revert  to  the  King  if  the  Earl  were  to  die  without  heirs  male." 
On  Robert  de  Ufford's3  death  in  1368  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
William  de  Ufford,  and  on  his  death  in  1381'  without  issue  it  reverted 
to  the  Crown. 

The  same  year  King  Rich.  II.  granted  for  life  to  Queen  Anne  in  part 
of  her  dower,  Eye  Castle,  town,  manor,  and  Honor,  &c.,  of  the  yearly  value 
of  £200,  the  Hundreds  of  Hartismere  and  Stow,  of  the  yearly  value  of  £16, 
a  yearly  farm  of  £23.  i6s.  8d.  from  the  Manor  of  Combs,  and  £60  from  the 
farm  of  Ipswich.5 

In  1385  (6th  Aug.),  Sir  Michael  de  la  Pole,  then  Chancellor  of  England, 
was  created  Earl  of  Suffolk,  and  the  King  granted  the  castle,  town,  manor, 
and  Honor  of  Eye  to  him  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  with  £20  per  annum 
out  of  the  profits  of  the  county  of  Suffolk,  £500  per  annum  out  of  the  heredi- 
taments of  William  Ufford,  late  Earl  of  Suffolk,  for  which  the  following 
property  was  conveyed  and  confirmed  to  the  said  Earl,  namely  :  the 
Hundreds  of  Hartismere  and  Stow,  the  Manors  of  Combs,  Haughley,  Thorn- 
don,  Lowestoft,  and  Lothingland  Hundred/'  The  assignment  was  only 
expectant  on  the  decease  of  Queen  Anne  and  Isabella,  Countess  of  Suffolk. 
In  the  grant  the  Manor  of  Haughley  was  valued  at  £97.  los.  nd.  a  year, 
Thorndon  Manor  at  £35.  135.  7$d.,  and  the  Manor  of  Lowestoft  and 
Hundred  of  Lothingland  at  100  marks  a  year.  The  grant  was  to  Michael  in 
tail  male.  He  fled  the  kingdom,  was  outlawed,  and  died  at  Paris  5th 
Sept.  1389 ;  but  his  son,  Sir  Michael  de  la  Pole  in  1397  obtained  an  annulment 
of  the  judgment  against  his  father,  and  on  the  accession  of  King  Hen.  IV. 
was  fully  restored  to  the  castle,  manor,  and  Honor  of  Eye,  with  the  other 
lands  of  the  late  lord  his  father,  as  also  to  the  Earldom  of  Suffolk,  with  a 
reversionary  proviso  that  those  lands  and  honors  should  in  default  of  male 
issue  devolve  upon  the  male  heir  of  his  deceased  father. 

On  the  Patent  Rolls  in  1401  is  a  mandate  to  permit  the  tenants  of 
Michael  de  la  Pole,  Earl  of  Suffolk,  of  Eye  Honor,  to  be  quit  of  toll,  stallage, 
cheminage,  pontage,  pavage,  piiage,  murage,  and  passage  throughout 
the  realm,  as  they  had  been  time  out  of  mind.7  Sir  Michael  de  la  Pole  spent 
most  of  his  time  in  the  French  wars,  and  married  Catherine  Stafford,  2nd 
daughter  of  Hugh,  2nd  Earl  of  Stafford.  He  died  I4th  Sept.  1415,  at  the 
seige  of  Harfleur.  The  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son,  Michael  de  la  Pole, 
3rd  Earl  of  Suffolk,  and  on  his  death  at  the  battle  of  Agincourt,  25th  Oct. 
1415,"  passed  to  his  brother,  William  de  la  Pole,  4th  Earl  of  Suffolk.9  On 
his  death,  2nd  May,  1450,'°  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John 
de  la  Pole,  created  Duke  of  Suffolk,  and  on  his  death  in  1491  passed  to  his 

'Pat.  Rolls,  13  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  5.     See  «Pat.  Rolls,  9  Rich.  II.  pt.  i.  32.     See 

13  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  35  ;  Close  Rolls,  9  Rich.  II.  pt.  i.  35  ;    R.P.  iii.  2086. 

14  Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  55.  'Pat.  Rolls,  2  Hen.  IV.  pt.  ii.  9. 
1  Pat.  Rolls,  17  Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  2?d.  "I.P.M.,  3  Hen.  V.  486. 

'See   Parham    Hall    Manor,    Plomesgate  »See    Kettlebaston     Manor,    in     Cosford 

Hundred.  Hundred. 

«I.P.M.,  5  Rich.  II.  57.  "I.P.M.,  28  Hen.  VI.  25. 
5  Pat.  Rolls,  5  Rich.  II.  pt.  ii.  6,  5. 


EYE.  259 

son  and  heir,  Edmund  de  la  Pole,  2nd  Duke  of  Suffolk,  beheaded  on  Tower 
Hill,  April  3oth,  1513,'  when  the  manor  reverted  to  the  Crown." 

The  same  year  it  was  granted  to  Sir  Henry  Manny  during  the  life  of 
Margaret,  widow  of  Edmund  de  la  Pole,3  and  the  following  year  the  reversion 
was  granted  to  Charles  Brandon, Duke  of  Suffolk,  3oth  Sept.  30  Hen.  VIII.,4 
but  was  reconveyed  to  the  Crown  in  exchange  by  the  Duke  in  the  same 
year.5  He  died  in  1545,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry 
Brandon,  2nd  Duke  of  Suffolk,  who  died  during  minority,  I4th  July,  1551, 
at  the  residence  of  the  Bishop  of  Lincoln  at  Bugden,  in  Huntingdon,  of  the 
sweating  sickness,  when  the  Dukedom  of  Suffolk  became  extinct,  and  the 
manor  for  want  of  male  heirs  reverted  to  the  Crown.  In  1553  Mary, 
daughter  of  King  Hen.  VIII.,  afterwards  Queen  Mary,  had  a  grant  of 
the  manor  for  life. 

There  is  amongst  the  Salisbury  MSS.  a  letter  of  John  Brown,  Deputy 
Surveyor  to  Lord  Burghley,  as  to  the  custom  of  taking  lops  of  trees  in  this 
manor,  and  as  to  the  repair  of  palings  of  Eye  Park.  It  is  dated  I5th  July, 
1578.*  In  1598  a  lease  in  reversion  was  granted  of  the  manor  to  Edward 
Honing  for  4oyearsat  therentof  £35.  i6s.6£d.,and  a  fine  of  £467  and  in  1610 
Henry,  Prince  of  Wales,  son  of  James  I.  had  a  grant.8  In  1625  the  manor 
formed  part  of  the  jointure  of  Henrietta  Maria,  Queen  of  Charles  I.,  and 
when  the  King's  lands  were  sold  Serjeant  Dendy  purchased  this  lordship. 
In  1686  the  manor  was  held  by  Katherine,  Queen  Dowager  of  Charles  II., 
but  in  1698  Charles,  4th  Lord  Cornwallis,  obtained  a  grant  from  the  Crown. 
He  died  in  1722,  when  it  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Culford, 
in  Blackbourn  Hundred,  to  the  time  of  Charles,  2nd  Marquis  Cornwallis,  who 
sold  the  manor  to  Matthias  Kerrison,  on  whose  death  in  1827  it  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  General  Sir  Edward  Kerrison,  of  Oakley  Park,  and  it  has 
since  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Thelnetham,  in  Blackbourn 
Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  Lady  Bateman. 

Court  Rolls  of  this  manor  will  be  found  in  the  Public  Record  Office,9 
and  also  in  the  British  Museum,  as  follows  :  1559,  Add.  Ch.  19666  ;  1619, 
Add.  Ch.  10483  ;  1621,  Add.  Ch.  10485  ;  1623,  Add.  Ch.  10486  ;  1649,  Ad(*. 
Ch.  10489  ;  1650,  Add.  Ch.  10492  ;  1655,  Add.  Ch.  10494  ;  1663,  Add.  Ch. 
10497. 

MANOR  OF  NETHERHALL. 

This  belonged  to  John  Thorpe  in  the  early  part  of  the  I4th  century, 
and  on  his  death  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  de  Thorpe,  who  died 
seised  of  the  manor  in  1330. 10 

We  learn  from  an  inquisition  p.m.  in  the  time  of  Hen.  VII.  that  this 
manor  was  worth  20  marks,  and  held  of  John,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  as  of  Eye, 
and  that  it  stood  limited  to  the  use  of  Sir  John  Sulyard  for  life,  with  remain- 
der to  Edward  Sulyard,  Mirabilia  his  wife,  and  others  for  life  of  the  said 
Mirabilia  to  her  use,  with  remainder  to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the  said 
Edward.  Sir  John  Sulyard,  who  was  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  the  Common 
Pleas,  died  i8th  March,  1487,  leaving  Edwaid  Sulyard,  aged  28,  his  son  and 
heir." 

1  ?  May  4th,  1512.  8  There  was  a  distraint  in   1618  on   the 

•I.P.M.,  5  Hen.  VIII.  I.  manor  by  N.  Shene,   Exch.  Spec. 

'O'.  5  Hen.  VIII.  Rot.  14,  15;  and  O.  6                   Com.  16  Jac.  I.;   D.K.R.  38.  App. 

Hen.  VIII.  Rot.  17.  p.  lot,  17  Jac.  I. ;  Ib.  p.  103. 

«S.P.  651  (45).  9 portfolio  203,  81. 

'S.P.  1538,  ii.  1182  (i8a).  "I.P.M.,  4  Edw.  III.  34. 

8  Rep.  on  Salisbury  MSS.  pt.  ii.  188.  "  I.P.M.,  4  Hen.  VII.  439. 
'S.P.  1598,  62. 


26o  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

The  manor  appears  to  have  been  extensive,  for  this  inquisition  refers 
to  it  as  being  in,  or  extending  into  the  parishes  or  hamlets  of  Eye,  Langton, 
Suddon,  Cranley,  Cockinley,  Yaxley,  Thrandeston,  Brome,  Hoxne,  Occolt, 
Beningham,  and  Denham. 

About  1524  the  manor  was  vested  in  Robert  Garneys,  son  of  John 
Garneys  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Sulyard;1  from 
which  time  for  some  generations  the  manor  passed  in  the  same  course 
through  the  Garneys  family  as  the  Manor  of  Kenton,  in  Loes  Hundred. 
This  manor  is  specifically  mentioned  in  a  fine  levied  nth  Nov.  1560,  by 
Thomas  Garneys,'  and  in  a  fine  levied  by  Nicholas  Garneys  in  1567. 3  In 
1583  we  meet  with  a  fine  of  the  manor  levied  by  Thomas  Brampton,  senior, 
against  Philip  Strelley  and  others.4  We  next  find  the  manor  vested  in  Sir 
Robert  Rous,  ist  Bart.,  who  died  in  1735,  from  whom  the  manor  has 
descended  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Henham,  in  Blything  Hundred, 
and  is  now  vested  in  the  Earl  of  Stradbroke. 

MANOR  OF  FLEMWORTH  HALL. 

The  manor  is  chiefly  in  Eye,  but,  as  it  formed  part  of  the  Bedingfield 
estate  it  was  afterwards  added  to  the  Manor  of  Denham,  by  the  style  of 
"  Denham  cum  Flymworth." 

In  the  early  part  of  the  I5th  century  this  manor  was  held  by  Michael 
Brett  and  Dionysia  his  wife,  and  in  1428  by  John  Stratton.  We  next 
find  the  manor  held  by  William  Harleston,  who  died  in  1481.  It  passed 
from  him  to  his  widow,  Philippa  Harleston,  for  life,  and  the  remainder 
after  her  decease  was  sold  to  one  John  Sulyard.  A  chancery  suit  was 
instituted  by  this  John  Sulyard  against  Philippa  Harleston,  Robert  Crane, 
Robert  Restwold,  Richard  Yaxle,  and  Richard  Gerard,  as  to  this  manor,  and 
that  of  Denham,  in  Hoxne  Hundred.5  Subsequently  the  manor  passed  to 
Thomas  Bedingfield,  of  Oxburgh,  co.  Norfolk,  son  and  heir  of  Edward 
Bedingfield,  who  died  seised  of  it  3rd  Apl.  1590,'  when  it  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Henry  Bedingfield,  then  aged  but  3  years  10  months  and  18  days. 
From  him,  then  Sir  Henry  Bedingfield,  the  manor  was  taken  by  Parliament, 
and  leased  in  1649  by  Sir  David  Watkins  and  other  trustees,  for  the  relief 
of  Ireland  for  3  years  to  Francis  Bromewell.  In  1684  it  was  again  with  the 
Bedingfields,  in  the  person  of  Sir  Henry  Bedingfield,  ist  Bart.,  son  and  heir 
of  the  last  Sir  Henry.  Sir  Henry,  ist  Bart.,  died  6th  Feb.  1684,  when  the 
manor  passed  to  his  widow,  Dame  Margaret,  who  held  her  first  court  for  it 
in  1688,  and  died  I4th  Jan.  1702,  when  the  manor  passed  for  some  genera- 
tions further  through  the  Bedingfield  family  in  the  same  course  as  the 
Manor  of  Bedingfield  Hall,  in  Hoxne  Hundred. 

In  1764  the  manor  was  vested  in  Charles,  Viscount  Maynard,  from 
which  time  it  has  descended  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Hoxne,  in 
Hoxne  Hundred,  to  the  Kerrisons,  and  through  them  to  the  present  lady 
of  the  manor.  Lady  Bateman,  as  shown  in  the  account  of  the  Manor  of 
Thelnetham,  in  Blackbourn. 

A  copy  of  a  Survey  made  of  the  manor  in  1651  is  given  in  the  Davy 
MSS.,  and  also  a  copy  of  a  rental  for  1635. 

'As  to  these  Garneys  see  Kenton  Manor,         «Fine,   Mich.  25-26  Eliz. 

in  Loes  Hundred.  5E.C.P.,  Bundle  35,48. 

'Fine,  2  Eliz.  63.  6I.P.M.,  30  July,  32 

'Fine,  6  Feb.  10  Eliz. 


EYE.  261 

MANOR  OF  CRANLEY  al.  CRANLEY  HALL. 

Among  the  lands  of  Ralph  de  Limesi  was  a  manor  in  Cranley,  which  is  a 
hamlet  of  Eye,  consisting  of  100  acres  of  land,  10  bordars,  i  ploughteam  in 
demesne,  i  belonging  to  the  men,  wood  sufficient  to  support  6  hogs,  valued 
at  2os.  In  the  time  of  the  Confessor  it  had  been  held  by  Aluric,  a  freeman, 
who  had  half  the  soc,  the  other  moiety  belonging  to  the  King.' 

The  manor  was  about  1156  vested  in  Peter  de  Bedingfield,  who  was  a 
son  of  Oger  de  Pegeys,  a  Norman  knight,  who  held  the  manor  in  the  time 
of  William  the  Conqueror.  He  was  succeeded  in  the  time  of  Hen.  II.  by 
his  son  and  heir,  Arnald  de  Bedingfield,  and  he  by  his  son  and  heir,  Adam 
de  Bedingfield.  The  next  holder  of  the  manor  we  hear  of  was  William 
fitz  Robert,  and  then  his  widow  Alice,  remarried  to  William  de  Bluncheville, 
holding  in  dower. 

In  1280  the  manor  was  held  by  John  de  Cranley,  and  in  1342  by  Richard 
de  Cranley,  who  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  de  Cranley.  We 
then  lose  sight  of  the  manor  for  some  time,  but  in  1530  we  meet  with  a 
fine  levied  by  Sir  John  Cornwallis  and  others  against  Sir  John 
Wiseman  and  others."  In  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  the  lordship  was 
vested  in  Nicholas  Everard,  as  we  learn  from  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of 
this  reign.  There  we  find  an  action  by  Thomas  London  against  this 
Nicholas  Everard  to  obtain  admittance  to  copyholds  in  Eye,  held  of  the 
Manor  of  Cranley  Hall,  in  Eye,  surrendered  to  plaintiff's  use  by  Robert 
London,  his  father,  the  defendant  being  lord.3  There  is  another  action 
later  between  Robert  London  and  others,  bailiffs  of  Eye,  against  Thomas 
Graye,  touching  a  place  called  "  Cranley,"  in  Eye.4 

Somewhat  later  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  Miles  Edgar,5  who  died  in 
1676,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry  Edgar.  From  the  loth 
Report  of  the  Historical  Commissioners,6  we  find  that  there  is  in  existence 
an  answer  in  Chancery  of  Thomas  Deye,  the  elder,  and  John  White  to  the 
suit  of  this  Henry  Edgar  and  one  Richard  Hardinge,  2nd  Feb.  32  Car.  II. 
By  deed  ist  Oct.  1686  the  manor  was  conveyed  to  Devereux  and  William 
Edgar,  in  trust  for  the  seven  daughters  of  Henry  Edgar,  son  and  heir  of 
Miles  Edgar,  to  be  equally  divided  between  them,  but  this  settlement  was 
revoked  2ist  April,  1696,  and  the  manor  revested  in  Henry  Edgar  in  fee. 
Henry  Edgar  by  his  will  30 th  July,  1705,  gave  the  manor  to  his  son-in-law, 
Robert  Britiffe  for  life,  with  remainder  to  his  (testator's)  godson,  Henry  Edgar 
Britiffe,  son  of  the  said  Robert,  in  fee. 

Robert  Britiffe,  by  will  dated  2nd  Dec.  1747,  devised  the  manor  to  his 
grandson,  John,  Lord  Hobart,  and  his  heirs,  and  in  default  to  Lady  Dorothy, 
his  granddaughter,  and  her  heirs,  with  remainder  to  Lady  Elizabeth 
Harbord,  his  daughter,  and  her  heirs  in  fee.  In  1805  Charles,  ist  Marquis 
Cornwallis,  died  seised  of  the  manor,  and  from  this  time  it  has  descended 
in  the  same  course  as  the  main  Manor  of  Eye. 

MANOR  OF  EYE  HALL  al.  EYE  PRIORY  MANOR. 

Robert  Malet,  the  Norman,  to  whom  such  extensive  grants  were  made 
in  Suffolk  and  Norfolk  by  William  the  Conqueror,  built  a  monastery  upon 

1  Dom.  ii.  429.  '  See  Manor  of  Capel,  in  Trimley  St.  Martin, 

'Fine,  Mich.  22  Hen.  VIII.  in  Carlford  Hundred. 

JC.P.  ii.  153.  6Pt.  v.  521. 

4C.P.  sen   ii.  B.  cix.  72 ;    ro  Rep.  Hist. 
Com.  pt.  iv.  525,  530. 


262  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

his  lordship  of  Eye,  and  conferred  upon  it  the  Church  of  St.  Peter  in  Eye, 
with  divers  other  churches,  lands,  liberties,  and  franchises.  '  In  1138 
King  Stephen  confirmed  the  same.* 

This  monastery  was  originally  an  alien  priory,  subordinate  to  the 
Abbey  of  Bernay,  in  Normandy,3  whose  abbots  were  the  patrons  of  those  in 
Eye,  and  in  token  of  their  dominion  during  the  vacancy  of  a  prior  they  used  to 
place  a  porter  at  the  gate  to  be  maintained  out  of  the  revenues  of  the  house, 
and  who,  at  the  instalment  of  the  next  prior  was  entitled  to  receive  55.  to 
buy  him  an  ox.  This  priory  was  in  1384  made  denizen  by  King  Rich.  II., 
being  released  from  its  foreign  dependency.4  Ministers'  accounts  of  the 
manor  as  held  by  Eye  Priory,  for  the  i8th  Edw.  II.,  will  be  found  in  the 
Public  Record  Office.5  The  site  of  the  house,  with  the  courtyard,  orchard, 
gardens,  and  houses  belonging  to  it,  contained  about  10  acres. 

The  clear  value,  according  to  Dugdale,  was  £161.  2s.  $d. ;  but 
Speed  and  "  Valor  Ecclesiasticus,"  A.D.,  1534  makes  the  gross  value 
to  be  £184.  gs.  j$d.,  the  amount  of  fixed  charities  £14.  125.  ^d.,  given 
to  the  poor  on  certain  days,  according  to  ancient  custom;  for  a  lamp 
burning  in  the  church  of  Yaxley,  2s.  annually,  and  the  same  in  the 
church  of  Laxfield,  2s.  In  1537  Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk, 
obtained  a  grant  in  tail  of  the  lordship.6  The  manors  included  in  this 
grant  to  Charles  Brandon  were  those  of  Eye,  Stoke,  Laxfield,  Bedfield, 
Occolt,  and  Fressingfield,  and  the  advowsons  of  vicarages  of  the  churches  of 
All  Saints  in  Dunwich,  Playford,  Laxfield,  Yaxley,  and  Eye,  and  chantries, 
lands,  glebes,  &c.7  The  "Boke  of  Sale,"  of  Eye  Monastery,  viz.,  of  goods 
and  chattels  at  the  suppression  is  referred  to  in  the  State  Papers  for  1537." 
A  rental  and  survey  in  the  time  of  Elizabeth  is  in  the  Public  Record  Office.9 
A  Parliamentary  survey  also  of  the  manor  in  1650  is  referred  to  in  the 
8th  Report  of  the  Deputy  Keeper.10 

Several  manors  and  estates  were  also  granted  to  Edmund  Bedingfield 
at  the  same  time  as  part  of  the  possessions  of  this  priory.  In  1538  Charles 
Brandon  exchanged  this  manor  with  King  Hen.  VIII.,  by  deed  30  Hen. 
VIII.11 

In  1576  the  manor  was  vested  in  the  Queen,  and  this  year  it  is  stated 
to  have  been  "  restored  to  Thomas  Willows."  By  letters  patent  dated  2gth 
June,  1598,  the  Manor  House  of  Eye  Hall  called  the  Priory  or  Abbey  of  Eye, 
together  with  the  demesne  lands  thereto  belonging  were  granted  to  Edward 
Honing,  Ursula  his  wife,  and  Winfield,  their  son,  during  their  lives,  and  for 
40  years  after  the  death  of  the  longest  liver  of  them,  at  the  yearly  rent  of 
£20.  2s.  gd.  The  particulars  for  their  lease,  as  contained  in  a  MS.  in  the 
writer's  possession,  are  as  follows  :  "  Eye.  The  Manor  of  Eye  Hall,  alias 
Eye  Priory,  the  yearly  value  whereof  ariseth  thus  : — 

Quit  rents  per  annum     . .         . .         . .  £17  n     4^ 

Perquisites  and  profits  of  courts  . .       400 

Reprisals      . .         . .         . .         . .         . .     21  11     4& 

The  owner  of  the  priory  land  is  bound  to  maintain  a  causeway  leading 

towards  the  church  of  Eye,  and  five  timber  bridges,  viz.,  the  three  Abbey 

Bridges,  Largate  Bridge,  and  Botsford  Bridge. 

'12  Rep.  Hist.  Com.  pt.  ix.  137.  *S.P.  1537,1.  1103  (ir) 

'Bodl.  4174.  'Ib. 

'I.Q.D.,   7   Edw.  II.    152;    Close    Rolls,         "S.P.  1537,  i.  510.    See  S. P.  1538,  ii.  1195. 

i   Edw.   III.  pt.  i.   22;    10  Rep.         'Exch.  Rep.  on  Publ.  Rec.  (1800)  pp.  178, 

Hist.  Com.  pt.  v.  529.  195. 

«Pat.  Rolls,  8  Rich.  II.  pt.  i.  3.  '"App.  ii.  p.  67. 

'Bundle  1127,  No.  4.  "S.P.  1538,  ii.  1182  (i8a). 


EYE.  263 

There  is  paid  out  of  the  priory  lands  to  Lady  Bacon,  for  a  certain 
meadow  in  Eye,  55.  per  annum;  out  of  Do.  to  John  Wiseman  for  exchange 
lands  in  Cranley  Hamlet,  45.  3^.  To  Thomas  Mason  for  6  acres  in  the  nine 
acre  close  is.  zd.  To  William  Sulyard,  for  a  meadow  there  2s.  To  — 
Yaxley  for  exchange  lands  in  Yaxley,  parcel  of  the  Manor  of  Eye,  5^.  per 
annum.  To  Agnes  Pretty  for  lands  in  Eye  per  annum  2s. 

Memorandum.  By  the  custom  the  youngest  son  inherits  the  copyholds 
of  his  parents.  The  lands  belonging  to  the  priory  are  tithe  free.  The 
fines  at  the  will  of  the  lord. 

There  are  several  reprisals  thereout,  amounting  to  £4.  145.  10^." 

This  manor  later  formed  part  of  the  jointure  of  Henrietta  Maria,  Queen 
of  Charles  I.  In  Oct.  1650,  the  Honor,  manor,  and  premises  were,  by  order 
of  the  contractors  sold  by  the  trustees  appointed  by  several  Acts  of  Parlia- 
ment for  the  sale  of  the  honors,  manors,  and  lands  theretofore  belonging 
to  King  Charles,  Queen  Henrietta  Maria,  and  the  Prince  of  Wales  to  Edward 
Dendy,  of  Whitehall. 

From  the  Exchequer  depositions  taken  at  Eye  in  1701  we  learn  that 
there  was  an  action  as  to  the  site  or  house  of  the  late  monastery  or  Priory 
of  St.  Peters,  "  Eye  Abbey,"  between  Martin  Foulkes  and  others  and 
William  Sherrington,  "  one  of  the  defendants,"  and  the  Attorney-General 
Loftus,  against  William  Sherrington.  The  manor  subsequently  vested  in 
Charles,  4th  Lord  Cornwallis,  who  died  in  1722,  since  which  time  it  has 
passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  main  manor. 

There  are  several  matters  relating  to  "  Eye  Manor,"  which  have  an 
application  to  one  of  the  manors  of  Eye,  but  to  which  we  are  unable  to 
determine.  Thus  we  find  on  the  Rolls  of  Parliament,  without  date,  that 
the  bailiffs  of  Thomas  de  Arundel  seized  the  manor,1  and  also  that  John 
Howard  enfeoffed  Richard  Wankeleyn  with  it.1  There  is  on  the  Patent 
Rolls  in  1331  a  commission  issued  to  enquire  into  the  alleged  wastes  within 
"Eye  Manor."3  Also  a  surrender  of  "Eye  Manor"  in  the  time  of  Hen.  VIII.4 
There  are  also  in  the  Public  Record  Office,  ministers'  accounts  of  "  Eye 
Manor,"  15  to  21  Rich.  II.,  n  to  12  Hen.  IV.5  Also  in  1625  livery  of 
lands,  part  of  "  Eye  Manor  "  to  Mary  Seckford,  sister  of  Thomas.6  Also 
actions  as  to  a  wood  called  "  Goosewood  or  Goosehould"  Wood,  parcel  of 
"  Eye  Manor."  One  of  these,  in  1631,  we  learn  from  the  Exchequer 
Depositions  at  Eye  is  between  Leonard  Nix  and  others  and  John  Gray  ; 
another  is  eight  years  later,  and  between  Grey  and  Grey ;  while  the  third  is 
referred  to  amongst  the  Exchequer  Special  Commissions  in  16477 


'R.P.  ii.  394.  5  Bundle  996,  Nos.  15,  16,  18,  19,  20. 

2  Ib.  6  Chancery,  D.K.R.,  43  App.  i.  p.  9. 

3 Pat.  Rolls,  5  Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  34^.  7D.K.R.  38  App.  p.  129. 

4D.K.R.  8  App.  ii.  p.  6. 


THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

FINNINGHAM. 

(HERE  was  no  manor  in  this  place  in  Saxon  times.  A 
holding  of  3  acres  was  that  of  a  freeman  who  could  not 
sell  his  land,  and  5  acres  and  I  bordar  of  another  freeman, 
included  in  the  same  valuation,  the  soc  belonging  to  the 
King  and  Earl.  The  Domesday  tenant  was  Robert  Malet. 
Another  small  holding  of  Robert  Malet  was  2  acres, 
valued  at  ^d.,  formerly  held  by  a  freeman  under  commendation. 
Another  estate  here  was  held  of  Robert  Malet  and  the  Queen's  fief, 
by  his  mother,  and  consisted  of  18  freemen,  with  i£  carucates  ofland.  One 
of  these  was  called  Almar,  whose  wife  was  under  commendation  of  the 
Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds,  and  two,  called  Lewin  and  Brihtmar,  were  under 
Lewin's  commendation.  The  others  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  were 
under  commendation  of  Leverich  and  Ulveva,  and  under  them  were  three 
freemen  with  5  acres,  I  bordar,  3^  ploughteams,  wood  sufficient  to  support 
1 6  hogs,  and  5  acres  of  meadow,  formerly  valued  at  35.,  and  at  the  time  of 
the  Survey  at  55.  It  was  half  a  league  long  and  half  broad,  and  paid  in  a 
gelt  8d.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  Earl. 

The  Domesday  tenant  was  Robert  Malet.1  Among  the  lands  belonging 
to  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  were  two  holdings  in  this  place. 
The  first  consisted  of  68  acres,  i£  ploughteams,  2  bordars,  4  acres  of 
meadow,  wood  sufficient  to  support  8  hogs,  the  value  being  125.  There  was 
also  a  church,  with  26  acres,  valued  at  45.  This  estate  had  formerly  been 
held  by  ii  freemen  under  the  soc  and  commendation  of  the  Abbot  of  St. 
Edmunds. 

The  second  holding  was  8  acres,  valued  at  i6d.,  formerly  held  by  a 
freeman." 

Belonging  to  Robert  the  Blond  were  two  acres  in  this  place  of  the 
demesne  land  of  Walsham.3 

MANOR  OF  FINNINGHAM  HALL,  OR  CONIERS  MANOR. 
Robert  Malet  was  chief  lord  here  in  the  time  of  the  Conqueror. 

In  1239  Robert  Conyers  granted  the  manor  by  fine  to  John  Conyers. 
He  was  succeeded  by  Robert  de  Conyers,  who  held  in  1286.  Robert  claimed 
view  of  frankpledge  and  assize  of  bread  and  beer  here.4 

Adam  de  Conyers  was  lord  in  1325. 

Davy  makes  Nigel  de  Kenton  lord  in  1325  and  Edmund  de  Thorp  in 
1340,  and  Page  says  that  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  Sir  Edmund  de 
Thorp  was  lord  of  Finningham,  and  in  1358  he  enfeoffed  his  estates  for  the 
payment  of  his  debts,  and  to  raise  portions  for  his  daughters  ;  when  it  was 
settled  that  John,  his  second  son,  who  married  Mary,  daughter  of  Sir  John 
Argentein,  of  Halesworth,  Knt.,  was  to  have  all  his  lands  in  Suffolk,  to  him 
and  his  heirs.  Adam  de  Conyers,  he  adds,  held  two  fees  in  Westhorp  and 
Finningham  of  the  fees  of  Sir  Edmund  de  Thorp's  Manor  of  Helmingham. 
There  is  some  confusion  here.  The  Manor  of  Finningham  was  merely  held 
by  the  Conyers  of  Sir  Edmund  de  Thorp's  Manor  of  Helmingham.  We  are 
quite  aware  of  the  fact  of  the  manor  being  mentioned  in  the  inquisition 
p.m.  of  John  de  Thorp  and  Alicia  his  wife  in  1323.'  But  it  is  clear  that 

'Dom.  ii.  309,  321,  3236.  4Q-W.  725. 

2Dom.  ii.  3906.  'I.P.M.,  17  Edw.  II.  61. 

>Dom.  ii.  440. 


FINNINGHAM. 


265 


Nicholas  Conyers,  the  grandson  of  the  above  Adam,  held  this  manor,  and 
that  it  passed  about  1418  to  his  son  and  heir,  Nicholas  Conyers. 

That  the  manor  did  not  pass  from  the  Conyers  family,  as  generally 
alleged,  is  perfectly  obvious,  for  in  1332  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  this 
manor  by  Alan  de  Conyers  and  Catherine  his  wife  against  Nicholas  de 
Conyers  and  William  Gobald.1  The  fine  included  also  the  advowson  of 
the  parish  church. 

On  the  death  of  Nicholas  Conyers,  the  son,  the  manor  passed  to  his 
widow,  who  remarried,  and  on  her  death  it  went  to  Nicholas  Conyer's 
son  and  heir,  Robert  Conyers,  who  died  in  1480.*  On  his  death  the  manor 
passed  to  his  daughter  and  heir  Ela,  married  ist  to  Edmund  Cotton,  3rd  son 
of  Sir  John  Cotton,  Knt.,  of  Lanwade,  co.  Cambs.,  and  2ndly  to  Edmund 
Lee.  Ela  died  2nd  Aug.  I535,3  when  the  manor  passed  to  her  son  and  heir 
by  her  first  husband,  George  Cotton.  He  lived  at  Barton,  and  married 
Jane,  daughter  of  John  Goldingham,  of  Belstead,  and  on  his  death  the 
lordship  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edmund  Cotton,  who  died  in  1585,* 
when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edmund.  He  died  in  1609,  when  the 
manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edmund  Cotton.  He  died  3ist  March, 
1639  ;  his  only  son,  George,  having  died  at  the  age  of  17  years,  the  manor 
passed  to  Edmund's  brother,  Robert  Cotton,  who,  with  others,  sold  it 
in  1660  to  John  Frere,  son  of  John  Frere,  of  Green  Farm,  Finningham,  by 
Anne  his  wife,  daughter  of  John  Sandwich,  of  Finningham.  John  Frere, 
the  purchaser,  married  in  1634  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  John  Sheppard,  of 
Mendlesham,  and  died  gth  March,  1679,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  John  Frere.  He  married  in  1669  Anne,  daughter  of  George 
Pretyman,  of  Bacton,  by  Susan  his  wife,  daughter  of  Thomas  Tyrell,  of 
Gipping,  and  dying  in  January,  1709,  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Edward  Frere,  who  resided  at  Thwaite  Hall.  He  married  Ellenor, 
daughter  and  coheir  withher sister  Maria,  wifeof  Lord  Chief  Baron  Reynolds, 
of  Thomas  Smyth,  of  Thrandeston,  and  on  his  (Edward's)  death,  6th  May,  1766, 
the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sheppard  Frere.  He  lived  at  Roydon 
Hall,  in  Norfolk,  and  in  1739  married  Susanna,  daughter  of  John  Hatley,  of 
London,  and  Kirby  Hall,  Essex,  by  Isabella  his  wife,  daughter  of  Robert 
Reynolds,  of  Bunstead  Hellions  (second  son  of  Sir  James  Reynolds)  and 
Kesia,  his  wife,  daughter  of  Thomas  Tyrell,  of  Gipping,  by  Kesia,  his  wife, 
daughter  of  Thomas  Tyrell,  of  Gipping,  by  Kesia  his  wife,  daughter 
of  William  Hervey,  of  Ickworth.  Sheppard  Frere  died  I4th  July, 
1780,  and  the  manor  passed  to  his  elder  son,  John  Frere,  F.R.S.,  F.S.A., 
of  Roydon  Hall,  Norfolk,  and  Bedington,  co.  Surrey,  High  Sheriff  for 
Suffolk  in  1776,  and  M.P.  for  Ipswich  in  1799,  and  for  Norwich  in  1800. 
He  married  in  1768  Jane,  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Hookham,  of  Beding- 
ton by  his  first  wife,  Jane,  daughter  of  Stephen  Pomfret,  of  Abingdon. 
John  Frere  died  I2th  July,  1807,  and  the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son, 
the  Right  Hon.  John  Hookham  Frere,  under-Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign 
Affairs  in  1799,  Envoy  to  Lisbon  1800,  Minister  to  Madrid  1802  to  1808.  He 
married  in  1816  Jemina  Elizabeth,  Countess  Dowager  of  Erroll,  daughter 
of  Joseph  Blake,  of  Ardfry,  co.  Galway,  afterwards  Lord  Wallscourt,  and 
widow  of  George,  Earl  of  Erroll.  He  died  at  Malta,  7th  Jan.  1846,  without 
issue,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  brother,  Edward  Frere,  of  Clydach,  co. 
Brecon.  He  married  Mary  Anne,  daughter  of  James  Greene,  of  Turton 


•Feet  of  Fines,  6  Edw.  III.  26. 
'I.P.M.,  20  Edw.  IV.  74. 
3I.P.M.,  28  Hen.  VIII.  308. 

KI 


« Not  1594,  as  stated  in  the  account  of 
Norton  Hall,  in  Hepworth,  in  Black- 
bourn  Hundred. 


266  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Tower,  and  Clayton  Hall,  co.  Lancaster,  M.P.  for  Arundel  in  1759,  and 
had  seven  sons  and  five  daughters,  and  on  his  death  the  manor  passed  to 
his  eldest  son,  Edward  Frere,  rector  of  Finningham,  who  died  unmarried 
23rd  July,  1841,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  brother,  George  Edward 
Frere.  He  married  in  1840  Isabella,  daughter  and  coheir  of  William 
Tudor,  of  Kelston  Knoll,  Bath,  and  dying  in  1887  the  manor  devolved  upon 
John  Tudor  Frere,  the  present  lord.  He  married  ist  in  1869  Constance, 
2nd  daughter  of  Forbes  Winslow,  M.D.,  D.C.L.,  and  2ndly  in  1893  Agatha 
Mary  Gabrielle,  fourth  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Edmund  Thomas  Daubeny,  of 
Market  Weston. 

Court  Rolls  of  the  manor  15  and  16  Jac.  I.  will  be  found  in  the  Public 
Record  Office.' 

Arms  of  CONYERS  :  Azure,  a  maunch,  Or.  Of  COTTON  :  Sable,  a 
chevron  betw.  3  griffins'  heads  erased,  Arg.  Of  COTTON  :  Quarterly,  i  and  4, 
a  chevron  betw.  3  griffins'  heads  erased,  2  and  3  Gu.  a  chevron  betw.  3  pears  Or. 
Of  FRERE  :  Or,  two  leopards'  faces  in  pale,  Gules  between  as  many  flaunches 
of  the  last. 

NECTON  HALL  MANOR  OR  NORTON  HALL. 

This  manor  formed  part  of  the  land  held  in  chief  by  the  Abbot  of  St. 
Edmunds  at  the  time  of  the  Domesday  Survey.  Rental  and  customary  of 
lands  of  the  monastery  in  Finningham  in  1387  will  be  found  amongst  the 
Additional  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum.2 

In  1480  it  became  vested  in  Sir  Robert  Conyers,  and  has  since  devolved 
in  the  same  course  as  the  main  manor.  In  1510  a  fine  was  levied  of  the 
manor  by  William  Wotton  and  others  against  Edmund  Lee  and  Ela  his 
wife.  It  included  the  advowson  of  Finningham.3 


'Portfolio  203,  8l.  'Fine,  Mich.  2  Hen.  VIII. 

'Add.  14849. 


GISLINGHAM.  267 

GISLINGHAM. 

HERE  were  three  manors  in  this  place  in  Saxon  times. 
One  was  held  by  Alviet,  a  freeman  under  commendation  to 
Alsey,  nephew  of  Earl  Ralph,  and  consisted  of  30  acres,  an 
acre  of  meadow,  and  a  ploughteam  (which  had  disappeared 
at  the  time  of  the  Survey).  The  second  was  held  by  Ringulf, 
a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Alsey,  Earl  Ralph's 
nephew,  and  consisted  of  30  acres  and  a  ploughteam  (which 
had  disappeared  at  the  time  of  the  Survey).  Of  this  land,  Lewin,  son  of 
Ringulf,  held  3  acres  and  the  fourth  part  of  a  wood.  The  Domesday 
tenant  of  both  these  manors  was  Robert  Malet. 

In  the  same  township  was  a  holding  of  7  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam, 
valued  at  16^.,  belonging  to  Robert  Malet,  and  formerly  to  three  freemen, 
over  two  of  whom  Alveva  had  commendation. 

Robert  Malet  had  several  other  holdings  here.  One  consisted  of  26 
acres  and  half  a  ploughteam  (which  had  disappeared  at  the  time  of  the  Survey), 
valued  at  45.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  two  freemen,  one  called  Coleman, 
who  was  under  commendation  to  Ulveva,  with  6  acres. 

Another  holding  consisted  of  13  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at 
2os.,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  at  125.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  6 
freemen  under  commendation  to  Alviet. 

Another  holding  consisted  of  10  acres,  half  a  ploughteam,  4  acres  of 
meadow,  and  wood  sufficient  to  support  10  hogs,  valued  at  xos.  It  was 
formerly  held  by  4  freemen  under  commendation  to  Ringulf,  when  it  was 
valued  at  205. 

Another  holding  consisted  of  16  acres,  and  i  ploughteam,  (which  had 
disappeared  at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  valued  at  6s.  8^.  Of  this  land 
Aubrey  de  Vere's  predecessor  held  5  acres,  the  King  and  the  Earl  having  the 
soc.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  Beso,  a  freeman. 

In  the  same  township  a  freeman  Sorches  held  6  acres  under  commen- 
dation to  Ulveva,  valued  at  izd.  ;  and  Chipping,  a  freeman  under  commen- 
dation to  Ulwin,  the  predecessor  of  Aubrey  de  Vere,  and  in  his  soc,  held 
12  acres,  also  an  acre  of  land  out  of  Ulwin' s  demesne,  and  the  fourth  part 
of  another  acre,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  the  estate  of  Chipping  was 
held  by  Robert  Malet' s  mother,  the  value  being  2s.  The  soc  belonged  to 
the  King  and  the  Earl. 

Another  holding  of  Robert  Malet  consisted  of  30  acres  in  the  soc  of  the 
King  and  Earl,  2  bordars,  i \  ploughteams  (reduced  to  i  team  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey),  and  i\  acres  of  meadow,  also  wood  sufficient  to  support 
5  hogs.  The  value  was  45.  in  Saxon  times  and  55.  at  the  time  of  the  Survey. 
Robert's  mother  held  this  last  estate,  which  had  formerly  been  held  by  two 
freemen,  Stannard  and  Stubbard,  under  commendation  to  Edric. 

The  last  holding  of  Robert  Malet  mentioned  in  the  Survey  consisted 
of  3  acres,  valued  at  I2d.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  Earl.  This 
had  formerly  been  held  by  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Alsey,  nephew 
of  Earl  ftalph.1 

The  third  manor  in  this  place  was  held  by  Gilbert  Balistarius,  and 
consisted  of  2  carucates  of  land,  2  bordars,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne 
(reduced  to  i  at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  2  acres  of  meadow,  and  wood 
sufficient  to  support  4  hogs,  valued  at  405.  It  had  been  held  by  Alsey,  a 
freeman,  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor.  The  Survey  goes  on  to  say  :  "  This 

'Dom.  ii.  320&.  322,  324. 


268  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

manor  belonged  in  the  lifetime  of  King  Edward  to  the  demesne  of  Abbot 
Lefstan,  of  St.  Edmunds,  and  Abbot  Lefstan  leased  it  to  Alsey  and  his 
wife  by  such  an  agreement  after  their  deaths  the  Abbot  should  have  his 
manor  back  again  and  another  Manor  of  Alsey's,  Euston  by  name."  The 
soc  belonged  to  the  King  and  Earl. 

In  the  same  township  was  a  holding  of  16  acres,  and  i  ploughteam 
(which  was  reduced  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  to  half  a  team).  This  was 
formerly  held  by  8  freemen  under  commendation  to  Alsey,  and  is  included 
in  the  above  valuation. 

Also  in  the  same  township  was  an  estate  of  6  acres,  valued  at  I2d., 
formerly  held  by  three  freemen  under  commendation  to  the  predecessor 
of  Aubrey  de  Vere,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  Earl.  It  was  a 
league  long  and  7  quarentenes  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  iod.' 

Amongst  the  landsof  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  wasa  holding  consisting 
of  30  acres,  i  ploughteam,  I  bordar,  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  ios., 
formerly  held  by  Aluric,  a  socman.  Also  an  estate  of  8  acres  (out  of  the 
30  acres  in  the  above  soc,  the  land  and  commendation  belonging  to  the 
abbot),  3  ploughteams  (which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  were  reduced  to 
2),  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  ios.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by 
12  freemen  and  a  socman.* 

Hugh  de  Montfort  had  here  a  freewoman  (formerly  under  commenda- 
tion to  Goodmund),  with  15  acres  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  2s.3 
Aubrey  de  Vere  held  here  a  freeman  named  Edric,  and  an  estate  of  23  acres , 
and  i  ploughteam,  valued  at  45.  8d.,  held  of  him  by  Adelalmus.  It  had 
formerly  been  held  by  3  freemen — Ulmar,  Lestan,  and  Lefquena.4 

Among  the  lands  of  Robert  the  Blond  were  two  estates  in  this  place. 
The  first  consisted  of  30  acres  of  the  demesne  land  of  Walsham,  held  by 
Achi,  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  2s.  8d.  The  second  consisted  of  53 
acres,  formerly  held  by  3  freemen,  under  Achi's  commendation,  namely, 
Alger,  Godric,  and  Godwin,  and  a  freeman  under  them  held  i  acre. 
Also  2  ploughteams  (reduced  to  half  a  team  at  the  time  of  the  Survey), 
and  wood  sufficient  to  support  24  hogs,  the  value  of  the  whole  being  ios. 
Over  two  women  (wives  of  these  men)  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  had  half 
the  commendation  and  half  the  soc.5 

Amongst  the  King's  lands  in  the  region  kept  by  Roger  Bigot  was  an 
estate  of  3  acres,  valued  at  6d.,  formerly  held  by  Leverich,  a  freeman,  and 
7  acres,  held  at  Diss  by  W.  de  Burnoville.6 

Amongst  the  lands  of  Earl  Ralph,  kept  in  hand  for  the  King  by  Good- 
rich the  steward,  was  an  estate  in  this  place  of  an  acre,  valued  at  2d.,  held 
by  a  freeman.7 

There  are  now  six  manors  in  Gislingham. 

MANOR  OF  SWATSHALL  HALL. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  Alsius,  a  freeman,  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor, 
and  of  Gilbert  Balistarius  in  the  time  of  the  Conqueror.  In  the  early  part 
of  the  I3th  century  it  belonged  to  William  de  Gislingham,  and  passed  to  his 
son  Robert,  who  in  1255  settled  the  manor  by  way  of  dower  on  his  marriage 
with  Amable  his  wife,  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  de  Craneley.  The  settlement 

'Dom.  ii.  444$.  5Dom.  ii.  440. 

*Dom.  ii.  361.  6Dom.  ii.  282. 

JDom.  ii.  408.  'Dom.  ii.  286. 
4  Dom.  ii.  419. 


GISLINGHAM. 


269 


is  still  in  existence,  and  will  be  found  amongst  the  Harleian  Charters  in  the 
British  Museum.1 

The  date  is  the  day  of  Pentecost,  in  the  month  of  May,  39  Hen.  III. 

By  a  deed  about  1260  William,  son  of  Robert  de  "  Gisleham  "  and  Elizabeth 
his  wife,  quit  claim  to  Robert  his  son,  no  doubt  the  Robert  of  the  last- 
mentioned  deed,  for  485.  per  annum,  the  manor  and  mill  of  Raysis,  in  Gisling- 
ham.2 A  little  later  we  find  a  deed  by  which  William,  son  of  Robert  de 
Gislingham,  quit  claim  for  himself  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  to  William,  son 
and  heir  of  Robert  de  Gislingham,  of  a  messuage,  and  a  carucate  of  land  in 
Reysses,  in  Gislingham,  and  other  lands  in  Swarteshaye  and  Bedingfeud 
for  12  marks  annually.3 

This  is  probably  the  "  Manor  of  Gislingham  "  of  which  Roger  de  Bello 
Campo  died  seised  in  1281.*  In  1347  the  manor  was  included  in  a  fine 
levied  by  John  de  Gislingham  against  John  de  Westle  and  Joan  his  wife.5 

In  1380  the  manor  was  vested  in  Richard  del  Chirche,and  Katherine  his 
wife,  and  by  a  conveyance  dated  ist  Feb.  1381,  they  conveyed  it  with 
the  manors  of  "  Rishes  and  Bedyngfeld,"  to  Sir  William  de  Burgate,  John 
Muriel,  parson  of  the  church  of  Wortham,  John  Huberd,  parson  of  the 
church  of  Burgate,  and  Hugo  de  Lancastre.6  A  fine  was  levied  in  1382-3 
between  Sir  William  de  Burgate,  Hugh  de  Lancastre,  and  John  Hoberd, 
clerk,  and  Richard  del  Chirch  and  Katherine  his  wife,  extending  to  the 
manors  of  "  Resshes  and  Swartsame."7 

In  1391  we  meet  with  another  deed  by  which  Richard  del  Chirch  "  of 
Gislingham  "  grants  to  Sir  William  Burgate,  John  Huberd,  clerk,  William 
Clontynge,  John  Glemham,  John  Lynge,  William  Lampet,  John  Say,  clerk, 
and  John  Messynar,  this  manor  and  the  Manor  of  Wodehous  in  Parva 
Thornham,  with  appurtenances  in  Magna  Thornham,  Gislingham,  Finning- 
ham,  Wyverstone,  Parva  Thornham,  Mellis,  Burgate,  Wortham,  and  Gazley. 
The  deed  is  dated  at  Gislingham,  Sunday  p.p.f.  Con.  S.  Pauli,  14  Rich.  II.8 

The  same  year,  but  at  the  end,  by  deed  dated  2nd  Feb.  14  Rich.  II., 
Sir  William  Burgate  and  the  other  trustees  named  in  the  last  grant  demised 
to  Richd.  del  Chirche  this  manor  and  that  of  "  le  Wodehous"  with  the  other 
property  comprised  in  the  last  grant.9 

In  1398  a  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  by  Sir  William  Burgate,  John 
Hobert,  clerk,  William  Clontyng,  John  Glemham,  John  Lynge,  and  William 
Lampet,  against  Thomas  Poley  and  Matilda  his  wife.10 

By  a  deed  in  1410  John  Glemham  quit  claim  to  John  Huberd  and  three 
others  all  his  right  in  this  manor  and  the  manor  of  "  Le  Wodehous,"  in 
Thornham  Parva  and  of  Gislingham,  in  Bedingfield." 

By  deed  dated  2gth  June,  1412,  Sir  John  Hevenyngham,  William 
Pelyp,  Thomas  Mystirtone,  William  Harlestone,  John  Huberd,  parson  of 
Burgate,  William  Clontyng,  John  Lynge,  William  Lampet,  Edmund 
Kattone,  John  Massynge,  Thomas  del  Cross,  and  Edward  Balle,  released  to 
Richard  Chirche  and  Margaret  his  wife  not  only  this  manor  but  the  Manor  of 
Wodehouse,  in  Thornham  Parva,  with  lands  in  Gislingham,  Thornham 
Magna,  Thornham  Parva,  Mellis,  Burgate,  Wortham,  Thrandestone, 
Yaxley,  and  Wyverstone.  The  releasors  were  no  doubt  trustees  of  the 
Chirches." 


'Haj-1.  500.53. 

'Harl.  50  G,  54. 

3  Had.  50  G.  55- 

«I.P.M.,  9  Edw.  I.  2,  9. 

5 Feet  of  Fines,  21  Edw.  III.  22. 

6Harl.  48  A.  42. 


7Feet  of  Fines,  5-7  Rich.  II.  7. 
8Harl.    48   A.   43. 
9Harl.  47  E.  13. 
10  Feet  of  Fines,  22  Rich.  II.  18. 
"Harl.  50  H.  2. 
"Hart.  51  E.  52. 


270  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Five  years  later  by  a  deed  dated  ist  July,  1417,  Sir  John  Hevenyngham, 
and  such  of  the  others  living  who  were  releasors  under  the  last  deed,  except 
William  Lampet,  quit  claim  to  him  all  their  right  in  the  manor,  and  other 
the  hereditaments  mentioned  in  the  deed  of  1412.  The  manor  was  by  the 
trustees,  William  Lampet  and  Thomas  Misterton,  subsequently  granted  to 
Richard  Chirche  and  Margaret  his  wife.' 

Richard  Chirche  died  in  1428,'  leaving  a  daughter  and  heiress  Mary, 
married  to  William  Toppesfield.  The  manor  passed  to  Margaret,  widow  of 
Richard,  and  then  to  William  Toppesfield  in  right  of  his  wife.  He  died  in 
1449  and  she  in  1473,  when  the  manor  passed  to  her  son  and  heir,  William 
Toppesfield.  On  his  death  the  manor  passed  to  Elizabeth  and  Joan,  his 
daughters  and  coheirs. 

This  may  be  the  devolution,  but  amongst  the  Early  Chancery  Pro- 
ceedings we  meet  with  a  suit  respecting  this  manor  and  that  of  Wodehous 
in  Thornham  Parva,  by  Henry  Bernard  and  Margaret  his  wife,  daughter 
of  Raulf  Toppisfield  and  .  .  .  another  of  the  daughters  of  the  said 
Raulf,  against  William  Toppisfeld,  cousin  of  Dame  Jane  Toppisfeld  and 
Simon  .  .  .J 

John  Wiseman  next  held  the  manor,  and  died  27th  May,  1555,  when 
it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edward  Wiseman,  who  died  in  1561,  when  the 
manor  went  to  his  sisters  and  coheirs,  Mary  and  Barbara.  Barbara  married 
Edmund  Bokenham,  of  Thornham.  She  died  in  1617,  and  he  in  1619,* 
when  the  manor  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Henry  Bokenham.  Davy 
says  Sir  Henry  Bokenham  died  in  1648  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and 
heir,  Wiseman  Bokenham,  who  died  in  1670  ;  but  we  find  from  the  State 
Papers,  the  Calendar  of  Compounders,5  that  Anthony  Bedingfield  sought 
to  compound  for  Gislingham  and  Swatshall  Manors,  which  he  had  purchased 
December,  1649,  of  Henry  Bedingfield,  for  whose  recusancy  two-thirds 
were  sequestered.  A  little  later  the  manor  was  held  by  -  -  Bedingfield, 
widow,  who  sold  it  to  Anthony  Bedingfield,  a  merchant  in  London.  He 
gave  it  to  his  brother,  Sir  Thomas  Bedingfield,  who,  when  he  bought  Dars- 
ham  Hall,  in  Blything  Hundred,  of  Philip  Bedingfield,  his  eldest  brother, 
gave  him  this  estate  and  other  lands  in  part  payment  for  that  purchase. 

Philip  Bedingfield  died  seised  in  1660,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his 
son  and  heir,  Thomas  Bedingfield,  who,  dying  in  1661  without  issue,  it 
devolved  upon  his  brother  and  heir,  Philip  Bedingfield,  who  died  in  1673, 
when  it  went  to  his  second  son,  Charles  Bedingfield.  Charles  Bedingfield 
rebuilt  Swatshaugh  Hall,  or  Swattisfield,  and  married  Agatha,  daughter  and 
coheir  of  Sir  William  Cooke,  Bart.,  of  Brome  Hall,  in  Norfolk,  and  was 
succeeded  by  his  eldest  son  and  heir,  W7illiam  Bedingfield,  who  died  in  1754, 
and  was  interred  with  divers  of  his  ancestors  in  the  parish  church  here. 

Letitia  and  Mary  Bedingfield,  his  sisters  and  coheirs,  inherited  this 
estate.  The  former  died  at  Norwich  in  1782  unmarried.  Mary,  the  other 
sister,  married  the  Rev.  Charles  Pleijs,  rector  of  the  parish  of  Gislingham. 
On  his  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  the  Rev.  Charles 
Bedingfield  Pleijs,  who  died  in  1781.  Whether  the  manor  continued 
with  the  Bokenhams,  or  passed  to  the  Bedingfields  as  above,  is  by  no  means 

'Cott  xxvii.  208.  sE.C.P.,  Bundle,  32,  177. 

•  In  his  will,  l6th  Jan.,  2  Hen.  VI.  proved  <See    Thornham    Hall    Manor,    in    this 

2oth  May,  1428,  he  states  that  he  Hundred. 

had  purchased  the  manor  of  John  '1648,  p.  1852. 

Erpyngham  and  Henry  Erpyngham, 

sons  of  John  Erpyngham. 


GISLINGHAM. 


271 


clear.  We  have  thought  there  might  possibly  be  two  manors  of  this  name, 
one  in  Gislingham,  and  the  other  in  Great  Thornham,  but  the  townships 
are  too  near  together  to  justify  this  surmise.  Further  doubt  is  thrown 
on  the  Bedingfield  devolution  by  a  deed  in  the  writer's  possession  dated  25th 
July,  1732,  in  which  Charles  Killigrew  is  described  as  of  "  Great  Thornham 
Hall  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  Esquire,  and  Lord  of  the  Manor  or  Manors  of 
Swatshall,  Woodhouse,  and  Bresworth,  in  the  said  town,"  the  "  said  town  " 
being  presumably  Great  Thornham. 

The  manor  subsequently  passed  to  Lord  Henniker,by  whose  representa- 
tive the  same  is  now  held. 

Arms  of  GISLINGHAM  :  Azure  a  fesse  Or  between  three  swans  Argent ; 
beaked  and  legged  Gules.  Of  CHIRCHE  :  Sa.  on  a  fesse  engrailed  Arg.  3 
escallops  Gu.  betw.  3  fleurs-de-lis  Or.  Of  PLEIJS  :  On  a  bend  wavy,  three 
anchors. 

MANOR  OF  RUSHES,  NOW  UNITED  WITH  JENNIES. 

One  Godard  de  Gislingham  is  supposed  to  have  held  this  at  the  time 
of  the  Conquest,  and  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  de  Gislingham,  in  the  reign  of 
Hen.  II. 

In  1268  William  de  Gislingham  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  exchanged 
it  with  their  son  Robert,  who  was  succeeded  by  William,  and  he  by  his  son 
and  heir,  John. 

It  is  said  that  John  de  Way  land  held  about  1383,  and  sold  the  manor 
to  Thomas,  son  of  Sir  Thomas  de  Geney,  who  vested  it  in  trustees  by  way 
of  settlement.  Davy  says  in  9  Rich.  II.  but  it  is  certain  that  in  1383, 
Richard  del  Chirche  and  Katherine  his  wife  conveyed  it  to  Sir  William  de 
Burgate  and  others  as  trutees.1 

In  the  time  of  Edw.  IV.  the  manor  is  said  to  have  been  vested  in 
George  Seckford,  and  that  he  died  seised  of  it  in  1463.  But  it  would 
appear  to  have  passed  in  1452  to  William  Alyngton  under  a  fine  levied  by 
him  against  Walter  Wymere  and  Margaret  his  wife,  daughter  and  heir  of 
John  Tolle.2 

By  the  time  of  Hen.  VIII.  it  had  passed  to  the  Hobart  family.  Sir 
James  Hobart  probably  acquired  it  in  1511  by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied  of  the 
"  Manor  of  Gislingham  "  against  Sir  Giles  Alyngton  and  Maria  his  wife.3 
Sir  James  Hobart  died  seised  24th  Feb.  1516,*  when  the  manor  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Walter  Hobart.  From  the  State  Papers  in  1531  we 
learn  that  relief  was  taken  from  Walter  Hobart  in  respect  of  this  manor.5 
Sir  Walter  Hobart  settled  it  and  the  manor  of  Jennies,  with  other  manors,  on 
his  son  and  heir,  Henry  Hobart,  who  succeeded  his  father  in  the  lordship 
in  1538,  and  a  fine  was  levied  against  him  by  Nicholas  Rokewode  in  I544-6 
Henry  Hobart  died  seised  in  1561.  The  manor  then  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  James  Hobart,  of  Hales  Hall,  in  Lodne,  who  in  1585,  sold  the  manor  to 
Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,7  against  whom  in  1593  a  fine  was  levied  of  this  and 
Jennies  Manor  by  Sir  Giles  Wootton  and  others.8  No  doubt  this  was  on 
occasion  of  some  settlement  of  the  property.  From  this  time  the  manor 
has  probably  passed  with  the  Manor  of  Redgrave,  in  this  Hundred,  in  the  same 
course  as  the  Manor  of  Hinderclay,  in  Blackbourn  Hundred. 

'Feet  of  Fines,  5-7  Rich.  II.  dred  ;    also   Boys   Manor,   Bacton, 

"Feet  of  Fines,  30  Hen.  VI.  33.  Hartismere  Hundred. 

'Fine,  Easter,  3  Hen.  VIII.  5S.P.  23  Hen.  VIII.  653. 

4 See    Manor    of   Oulton,  in    Lothingland  6Fine,  Mich.  36  Hen.  VIII. 

Hundred,    and    Candelent    Manor,  7Fine,  Mich.  27-28  Eliz. 

Trimley   St.  Mary's,   Colneis  Hun-  'Fine,  Mich.  35-36  Eliz. 


272  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

In  1802  it  was  certainly  vested  in  George  Wilson,  of  Redgrave  Hall, 
Admiral  of  the  Red,  and  is  now  vested  in  George  Holt  Wilson,  of  Redgrav.- 
Hall. 

MANOR  OF  JENNIES. 

In  the  middle  of  the  I4th  century  this  was  the  lordship  of  Sir  Thomas 
de  Geney,  Gyney,  or  Jenney,  and  passed  on  his  death  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Thomas  Jenney,  who  vested  it  in  trustees  by  way  of  settlement,  and  died  in 

1403- 

The  manor  passed  to  Sir  Thomas  Gyney,  or  Jenney,  whose  will  is  dated 
1417,  and  proved  1420.  He  was  succeeded  by  his  daughter  and  heir, 
Margery,  who  was  lady  of  Guton,  in  Norfolk,  and  presented  to  Brandeston 
church,  in  that  county,  in  1431,  as  such. 

By  the  time  of  King  Hen.  VIII.  the  manor  had  passed  to  the  Hobart 
family,  and  Sir  James  Hobart  died  seised  of  it  in  1516,  from  which  time  the 
manor  has  passed  with  and  is  now  united  with  the  Manor  of  Rushes. 

MANOR  OF  GISLINGHAM,  GOLDINGHAM,  OR  GOLDINGHAM  HALL. 

Robert  Brito  gave  to  the  priory  of  Eye  tithes  in  Gislingham,  and  the 
lordship  on  his  death  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  William  Le  Breton.  His  son 
and  heir,  William  Le  Breton,  in  1230  purchased  half  a  knight's  fee  here 
by  fine,  14  Hen.  III.,  and  died  about  1246.  Alice,  his  daughter  and  heir, 
married  Sir  William  de  Goldingham,  who  died  before  1286,  for  this  year  we 
find  his  son  and  heir,  John  de  Goldingham,  lord.' 

In  1316  Fulke  de  Goldingham,  John's  brother,  held  the  lordship,  and 
was  succeeded  by  his  son,  Sir  Adam  Goldingham,  Sheriff  of  Essex.  In  1333 
we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  "  Gislingham  Manor,"  probably  this,  by  Roger 
de  Bourne  and  Elen  his  wife  against  Robert  Whitford,  clerk,  and  Robert 
Balle,  clerk,2  and  in  1341  a  fine  levied  by  John  Hardel  and  Alice  his  wife 
against  John,  son  of  Falcon  de  Goldyngham  of  the  manor  and  a  mill  in 
Gislingham.3 

In  1363  Sir  Walter  de  Manny  and  Margaret  his  wife  had  assigned  to 
them  half  a  fee,  which  Mary  (?),  widow  of  Thomas  de  Brotherton,  Countess 
of  Norfolk,  late  held  in  dower,  and  which  Fulk  de  Goldingham  held. 
Amongst  the  Harleian  Charters  in  the  British  Museum  is  a  writing  in  1386, 
indented  by  which  John  Tendryng,  having  enfeoffed  Thomas  Sampson, 
Nichole  Co terell, chaplain,  and  Estephene  Hervy,  chaplain,  in  the  Manor  of 
Gislingham,  with  the  advowson  of  the  church,  authorises  them  to  make 
estate  of  the  same  to  Esmon  Lackyngheth.  The  document,  which  is  in 
French,  is  dated  at  Gislingham  the  Friday  after  Easter,  9  Rich.  II.4  Sub- 
sequently we  find  amongst  the  Early  Chancery  Proceedings  a  suit  by  Thomas 
Assheman,  heir  of  Johane  Lakynghyth  against  John  Burys  and  others, 
feoffees  to  uses  as  to  the  manor.5 

In  the  time  of  Hen.  VI.  the  manor  belonged  to  the  Tyrrell  family,  and 
in  1435  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  this  and  the  Manor  of  Hemenhall,  by 
Sir  John"  Tirell"  and  Katherine  his  wife,  Sir  William  Phylyp,  Sir  John  Clyiton, 
Sir  John  Hevenyngham,  Edward  "  Tirell,"  William  Rokewode,  Robert  Asshe- 
feld,  Richard  Doget,  Thomas  Singleton,  John  Pyrye,  and  Gregory  Wery, 

'As    to   Goldingham    family,    see    Little         sFeet  of  Fines,  15  Edw.  III.  16.  John, 
Belstead  Manor  in  Samford  Hundred.  son  of  Nich.  de  Twinstede  app.  cl. 

'Feet  of  Fines,  7  Edw.  III.  23.  «Harl.  56  H.  35. 

sE.C.P.,  Bundle  69,  152. 


GISLINGHAM.  273 

clerk,  against  Roger  Felice  and  Margaret  his  wife.1  In  the  reign  of  Henry 
VIII.  the  manor  was  held  by  Sir  John  Tyrrell,  and  on  his  death  in  1573 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John  Tyrrell.2 

In  1592  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  by  Thomas  Bedyngfeild  and  others 
against  T.  "Tyrell"  and  others.3 

In  1802  the  manor  was  vested  in  John  Frere,  and  on  his  death  in  1807 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  the  Right  Hon.  John  Hookham  Frere,  from 
which  period  the  manor  passed  for  a  time  in  the  same  mode  as  the  Manor 
of  Finningham  Hall,  but  before  1845  had  passed  to  the  Henniker  family, 
and  is  now  vested  in  Lord  Henniker. 

MANOR  OF  LAWFORD  AND  COLLESFORD. 

This  manor  belonged  to  Sir  Robert  de  Burgate,  and  was  given  by  him 
to  the  Knight  Templars,  who  had  a  house  here  ;  in  1286  the  Master  of  the 
Knight  Templars  was  seised,  and  claimed  view  of  frankpledge  and  assize 
of  bread  and  beer  in  Gislingham.4  On  the  Close  Rolls  in  1313  is  an  order 
to  the  Keeper  of  late  Templars'  Manor  of  "  Gyselingham"  to  pay  a  sum  to  the 
Bp.  of  Norwich,  for  a  Templar  in  the  monastery  of  St.  Edmunds.5  Later 
the  lordship  vested  in  the  Knights  Hospitalers,  and  subsequently  to  the 
preceptory  at  Battisford. 

In  1509  it  was  in  the  King's  hands. 

In  1544  Nicholas  Bacon  had  a  grant  of  the  manor  from  the  Crown 
in  exchange,  and  particulars  of  the  manor  for  this  grant  are  still  preserved 
in  the  Public  Record  Office.6  In  1553  John  Greene  and  Richard  Hall 
had  a  similar  grant,  but  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon  certainly  held  the  manor  in 
1566. 

MANOR  OF  GISLINGHAM  AND  HEIGHAMS. 

Robert  Crane  held  this  manor  in  the  time  of  Hen.  VII.,  and  died  seised 
of  it  26th  Oct.  1447,  when  it  passed  ta  his  brother  and  heir,  John  Crane.7 
John  Crane  died  seised  i6th  August,  I5O4,8  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Robert  Crane.  A  fine  was  levied  against  him  in  1534  of  this  manor 
and  the  Manor  of  Chilton  al.  Waldingfield,  by  William  Wystouse  and  others. 
It  included  the  advowson  of  Chilton  church.9  Robert  Crane  died  in  1550. 10 
when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Robert,  who,  dying  in  1591,  it 
went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry  Crane,  of  Chilton." 

In  1802  this  manor  was  vested  in  George  Wilson,  and  has  since  passed 
in  the  same  course  as  the  Manors  of  Rushes  and  Jennies. 

An  abstract  of  the  customs,  &c.,  of  Gislingham  Manor,  in  the  i6th 
century, will  be  found  amongstthe  Additional  MSS.in  the  British  Museum.12 


•Feet  of  Fines,  13  Hen.  VI.  21.  fl.P.M.,  16  Hen.  VII. 

'See  Gipping  Manor,  Stow  Hundred.  8I.P.M.,  20  Hen.  VIII. 

3  Fine,  Trin.  34  Eliz.  9  Fine,  Mich.  26  Hen.  VIII. 

4Q.W.   725.    "  I0 1.P.M.,  4  Edw.  VI.  84. 

'Close  Rolls,  7  Edw.  II.  18.  "See  Chilton  Manor,  Babergh  Hundred. 

636  Hen.  VIII.  D.K.R.  9  App.  ii.  162.  "Add.  31970. 

LI 


274  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

MELLIS. 

|N  Saxon  times  there  was  one  manor  in  thi?  place  held  by 
Leverich,  consisting  of  60  acres,  and  i  ploughteam,  which 
had  disappeared  at  the  time  of  the  Survey.  Three  freemen 
under  commendation  held  15  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam 
(which  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  were  reduced  to  a  team 
of  2  oxen).  The  value  was  formerly  2os.,  reduced  to 
half  at  the  time  of  the  Survey.  Ulwin,  the  predecessor  of 
Aubrey  de  Vere  had  half  the  commendation  and  half  the  soc,  and  Ulveva 
had  half  the  commendation  and  the  King  "half  the  soc.  The  Domesday 
tenant  was  Robert  Malet. 

Another  holding  here  of  Robert  Malet  consisted  of  27  acres,  i  bordar, 
i  ploughteam,  an  acre  of  meadow,  and  half  a  church,  with  8  acres,  valued  at 
IDS.  Robert  Malet's  mother  held  it  over  him,  and  the  soc  belonged  to  the 
King  and  Earl.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  Fulchard,  a  freeman,  half 
under  commendation  to  Edric.1 

Belonging  to  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  was  a  small  estate 
in  this  place," consisting  of  i£  acres,  valued  at  6d.,  held  by  a  freeman  under 
the  abbot's  commendation  and  soc.* 

Another  estate  in  this  place  was  that  of  Aubrey  de  Vere,  and  consisted 
of  14  acres  of  free  land  held  by  Menleva,  a  freewoman,  who,  in  the  time  of  the 
Confessor,  gave  that  land  to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds. 

Altogether  others  had  90  acres,  6£  ploughteams,  and  an  acre  of 
meadow,  valued  at  6os.  Adelalmus  held  the  whole  of  this  under  Aubrey 
de  Vere,  whose  predecessor  had  soc  and  commendation  over  the  freemen, 
having  the  90  acres  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor.  Aubrey  de  Vere  also  had 
here  4^  freemen,  Leuric,  Godrir,  Ulward,  Lewinbenne,  and  Furcard,  the  half 
freeman.3 

MANOR  OF  MELLIS. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  Leverich  in  Saxon  times,  and  of  Robert  Malet 
after  the  Conquest. 

In  the  time  of  Hen.  I.  Sir  Robert  de  Sackville4  held,  and  in  1240  VVydo 
de  Verdon.  Davy  makes  Peter  de  Melles  lord  in  1286,  and  John  de  Swyni- 
ford  lord  in  1316  ;  on  the  other  hand,  Page  says  that  in  9  Edw.  I.  the  demesne 
of  the  parish  was  held  by  John  de  Sywnford,  but  subsequently  by  Sir  John 
Norwich,  who  held  the  same  at  one  fee,  as  of  Sir  John  de  Thorp's  Manor  of 
Fundenhall,  in  Norfolk,  he  of  the  Earl  Marshal,  and  he  of  the  King.  Davy's 
inaccuracy  probably  arises  from  confounding  this  manor  with  that  of  Mells. 

Peter  de  Mells  held  Mells  in  Blything  Hundred,  not  this  manor. 

This  manor  was  the  lordship  of  Sir  John  de  Thorp  and  Alice  his  wife. 
He  died  seised  in  I323,5  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  de  Thorp, 
who  died  in  1330 .6 

A  "  Mellis  Manor  "  is  mentioned  amongst  others,  of  which  Edward 
Cornwallis  died  seised  3rd  September,  1510,  leaving  William,  his  brother 
and  heir,7  but  which  this  manor  was,  or  that  it  was  not  Mells  Manor,  in 
Blything  Hundred,  we  are  unable  to  say  with  certainty. 

In  the  time  of  King  Hen.  VIII.  the  manor  was  vested  in  Henry  Denny, 
who  appears  to  have  parted  with  it  in  1562  to  Walter  Norton,8  and  on  his 

1  Dom.  ii.  3236.  5 1.P.M.,  17  Edw.  II.  61. 

*Dom.  ii.  371.  6See  Manor  of  Thorpe  Hall,  Horham,  in 

'Dom.  ii.  419.  Hoxne  Hundred. 

4See    Old    Hall,  Braiseworth,    in    this        'I.P.M.,  2  Hen.  VIII. 
Hundred.  "Fine,  Mich.  4  Eliz. 


MELLIS.  275 

death  in  1609  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry  Norton,1  who  had  licence 
to  alien  it  in  1594  to  John  Wilsher  and  others,  probably  as  trustees  on  some 
settlement,  for  we  find  that  in  1638  Walter  Norton,  of  Chediston,  succeeded 
his  father  Henry. 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  is 
an  action  relating  to  the  manor,  or  rather  parcel  thereof,  brought  by  Walter 
Norton  against  Thomas  Thurston.2 

In  1764  the  manor  was  vested  in  Rowland  Holt,  who  died  in  1786, 
and  from  him  it  has  devolved  (like  the  Manor  of  Redgrave,  in  this  Hundred), 
in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Hinderclay,  in  Blackbourn  Hundred, 
and  is  now  vested  in  George  Holt  Wilson,  of  Redgrave  Hall. 

MANOR  OF  ST.  JOHN'S. 

In  the  time  of  King  Hen.  III.  the  Master  and  Brethren  of  the  Temple 
had  a  grant  of  liberties,  &c.,  here,  and  in  the  time  of  Edw.  I.  Master  Milicie, 
of  the  Templars,  claimed  view  of  frankpledge  and  assize  of  bread  and  beer 
in  Mellis.3 

At  the  Dissolution  the  manor  passed  to  the  Crown,  and  was  granted 
in  1554  to  Sir  Thomas  Cheney  and  Augustine  Curtis.  In  1764  it  was  vested 
in  Rowland  Holt,  and  has  since  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  last  manor. 

In  this  manor  the  custom  of  "  Borough  English  "  prevails. 

MANOR  OF  LANCASTER  al.  WERTS  OR  POUNTNEYS. 

This  manor  belonged  to  Anthony  Yaxley,  or  Yaxlee,  in  the  time  of 
Hen.  VIII.  John,  eldest  son  and  heir  of  Richard,  only  son  of  John  Yaxlee  (al. 
Harbord),  of  the  adjoining  parish  of  Yaxley,  being  the  first  of  that  house  who 
appears  to  have  resided  here.  He  was  a  serjeant-at-law,  and  by  Elizabeth  his 
wife,  daughter  of  Richard  Brome,  had  issue  an  only  son,  Anthony  Yaxlee  and 
two  daughters,  namely,  Mary,  who  married  George  Fastolf,  and  Elizabeth. 
From  the  time  of  Anthony  Yaxlee  to  Charles  Yaxlee,  in  1650,  the  manor 
passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Yaxley,  in  this  Hundred.  A  fine 
was  levied  of  this  manor  in  1568  by  Edmund  Bedingfield  and  others 
against  William  Yaxley,4  and  the  following  year  between  the  same 
parties.5 

The  manor  subsequently  passed  to,  and  was  held  for  several  generations 
by  the  Clarke  family.  Upon  the  death  of  Thomas  Clarke  it  passed  to  the 
Rev.  Edward  Jermyn,  rector  of  Carl  ton  Colville,  and  is  now  vested  in 
Lord  Henniker. 

In  this  manor  the  custom  of  "  Borough  English "  prevails.  The 
mansion  and  park  of  the  Clarke  family  were  at  the  west  end  of  the  green  ; 
the  former  was  almost  entirely  pulled  down  many  years  ago,  and  the 
remainder  converted  into  a  farm  house ;  a  small  portion  of  the  old  part 
remained  in  Page's  time  [1847],  an(^  ne  savs  "  a  ^ew  years  ag°  "  many 
fine  trees  adorned  the  grounds. 

Amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum  is  a  deed 
relating  to  this  manor  in  1624. 6 

Arms  of  CLARKE  :  Ermine  ;  on  a  fesse,  Gules,  three  bezants. 

1  See  Manor  of  Bavents  al.  Norton  Bavents,  « Fine,  Trin.  to  Eliz. 

in  Chediston,  in  Blylhing  Hundred.  s  Fine,  Mich,  n  Eliz. 

»C.P.  ser.  ii.  B.  cxxxi.  16 ;  Ib.  B.  cxxxiii.  5.  6  Add.  Ch.  32955. 
3Q.W.  725. 


276  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

MANOR  OF  HEIGHAM  HALL,  CALLED  HARRINGTON'S. 

Brian  de  Hikelin  or  Hickling  held  this  manor  in  1318,  and  it  passed  on 
his  death  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  de  Hickling.'  It  was  subsequently 
held  by  Richard  Blome  and  later  by  Adam  Blome,  in  1428  vesting  in  Robert 
Werk. 

Later  the  manor  passed  to  Miles  Hobart,  2nd  son  of  Sir  James,  who 
with  others  levied  a  fine  of  the  manor  in  1533  against  Francis  Thirkyll.* 
Miles  Hobart,  by  his  will  dated  6th  Aug,  1557,  gave  the  manor  to  his  widow 
Helen,  daughter  and  coheir  of  John  Blennerhassett,  of  Frenze,  in  Norfolk, 
for  life,  and  appointed  her  executrix,  and  John  Corbet  supervisor  of  his  will, 
which  was  proved  22nd  Feb.  1557.'  Thomas  Hobart,  son  and  heir,  married 
Aubrey,  daughter  and  heir  of  William  Hare,  of  Beeston,  in  Norfolk,  by  whom 
he  had  two  sons,  Miles  and  Henry.  By  an  inquisition  p.m.  he  was  found  to 
have  died  26th  March,  1560.  His  widow  remarried  Sir  Edward  Warner, 
Lieutenant  of  the  Tower,  who  dying  7th  Nov.  1565,  she  married  William 
Blennerhasset.  Blomefield  informs  us  that  Thomas  Hobart  died  lord  of 
Heigham,  and  his  widow  died  in  1581.  Henry,  the  2nd  son,  was  Lord  Chief 
Justice  of  the  Common  Pleas.  Miles  Hobart,  the  eldest  son  of  Thomas, 
was  a  minor  at  his  father's  death.  He  married  Margaret,  daughter  of  Sir 
Thomas  Woodhouse,  Knt.,  of  Waxham,  in  Norfolk. 

The  manor,  notwithstanding  what  Blomefield  implies,  does  not  seem 
to  have  continued  in  the  Hobart  family  through  these  descents,  for  apparently 
it  was  vested  in  Anthony  Yaxley  at  the  time  of  his  decease  in  1558-9,  when 
it  passed  to  William,  son  of  Richard,  and  grandson  of  Anthony,  and  on 
William's  death  in  1588  vested  in  Henry  Yaxley,  his  son  and  heir.  This 
manor  is  included  in  a  fine  levied  in  1569  by  Edmund  Bedyngfeld  against 
William  Yaxley.4  A  Manor  of  Mellis  is  included  in  a  fine  levied  of  Rushes 
and  Jennies  Manors,  in  Gislingham,  in  1593  by  Sir  Giles  Wootton  and  others 
against  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon.5 


'See  Rishangles  Manor,  in  this  Hundred.  «Fine,  Mich,  n  Eliz. 

•  Fine,  Trin.  25  Hen.  VIII.  '  Fine,  Mich.  35-36  Eliz. 

'Reg.  Hastings,  Norw.  p.  60. 


MENDLESHAM.  277 

MENDLESHAM. 


MONG  the  lands  of  Earl  Ralph  kept  in  hand  for  the  King 
by  Goodrich  the  steward,  was  one  manor  in  this  place. 
It  consisted  of  7  carucates  and  42  acres  of  land,  33  villeins, 
19  bordars,  3  ploughteams  in  demesne  and  15^  belonging 
to  the  men,  12  acres  of  meadow,  and  wood  sufficient  to 
support  1,000  hogs.  Of  live  stock  there  were  2  rouncies, 
ii  beasts,  90  hogs,  and  35  goats.  Also  a  hamlet  with  26 
acres,  i  bordar,  and  i  ploughteam.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  the  appur- 
tenances of  this  manor  were  different,  with  the  exception  of  the  live  stock, 
which  remained  the  same.  The  villeins  had  decreased  by  degrees,  first  to 
27  and  then  to  24,  the  ploughteams  in  demesne  had  come  down  to  2,  and 
those  belonging  to  the  men  to  13,  and  there  was  only  wood  enough  to  support 
860  hogs.  The  value  was  formerly  £25,  when  Goodrich  took  it  over  at 
£20,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  it  was  worth  £25  white  money  by  tale,  and 
405.  as  gersumary.  The  manor  was  a  league  and  6  quarentenes  long  and 
a  league  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  8d.  The  soc  belonged  to  Burchard,  by 
whom  the  manor  was  previously  held. 

Amongst  other  lands  of  Earl  Ralph  which  Goodrich  the  steward  kept 
in  Suffolk  in  the  King's  hand  and  enumerated  under  Stow  Hundred,  was  a 
freeman  with  3  acres  belonging  to  Thorney,  valued  at  6d.,  of  which  the  soc 
and  sac  were  in  the  Hundred.1  Mendlesham  later  became  divided  between 
5  lordships. 

MANOR  OF  MENDLESHAM. 

King  Hen.  I.  granted  this  manor  to  Manasser  or  Mansey  de  Danmartin. 
It  is  said  that  Odo  de  Danmartin  held  the  same  manor  in  the  reign  of  Hen. 
II.,  and  that  Basilia,  his  wife,  in  the  ist  year  of  that  King,  gave  60  marks  of 
silver  to  have  her  dower,  and  Odo,  the  son  of  Odo,  paid  100  marks  for  his 
father's  lands  in  this  parish.  This  is  all  very  true,  but  it  does  not  relate 
to  the  manor.  There  were  two  branches  of  the  Danmartin  family  holding 
lands  in  Mendlesham  at  the  same  time.  Thus  the  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer 
informs  us  that  in  1210-12  William  de  Warenna  held  one  knight's  fee  in 
Mendlesham,  which  was  William  de  Danmartin's,  but  at  the  same  time  it 
also  informs  us  that  Manasser  de  Danmartin  held  of  the  King  in  chief  one 
fee  here.  This  latter  was  the  manor.* 

An  entry  in  the  Hundred  Rolls  makes  the  whole  matter  clear.  It 
states  that  Hen.  I.  gave  the  manor  to  "  Manser  "  de  Danmartin,  and  that  in 
the  time  of  King  John  a  daughter  of  this  Manser,  named  Galyena,  being 
under  age,  the  King  gave  the  custody  and  marriage  to  William  de  Bruera, 
who  married  her  to  his  brother  John,  who  died  without  heirs.  Galyena 
being  still  under  age  was  then  married  to  Robert  de  Burgate,  who  also 
dying  without  heirs,  she  married  Ernald  de  Maundevill,  and  the  manor 
was  given  to  her  son,  Hugh  de  Maundevill,  who  sold  it  to  Nicholas  de 
Lewkenore,  at  whose  death  in  I2683  it  came  to  Patrick  de  Cadurcis.4  The 
inquisition  p.m.  of  Nicholas  de  Lewkenore  states  that  the  manor  had  been 
wholly  given  by  him  about  1263  to  his  son,  Sir  Roger  de  Lewkenore, 
who  did  homage  for  it  to  Hugh  de  Maundevill,  and  held  it  of  him  by  the 
service  of  one  knight,  paying  yearly  325.  to  Roger  de  Cotton  and  others, 
and  55.  Sheriff's  aid. 

'Dora.  ii.  2856.  3I.P.M.(  52  Hen.  III.   File  35  (12). 

2 132  B.  4H.R.  ii.  193. 


278  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

We  find  on  the  Close  Rolls  in  1226  an  order  for  seisin  to  be  given  to 
Galyena  of  lands  in  Mendlesham,1  so  it  is  clear  that  by  this  time  Robert 
de  Burgate  was  dead.  It  seems  that  in  1257  Galyena  granted  by  fine  this 
lordship  to  her  son,  Hugh  de  Maundevill,  and  he  at  her  request  granted  the 
same  to  Nicholas  Lewkenore.he  paying  305.  per  annum  for  life,  in  exchange 
for  lands  in  Hertfordshire  granted  to  Hugh.  Davy  makes  Robert  de  Burgh, 
who  married  the  daughter  and  heir  of  William  de  Danmartin,  lord.  He  no 
doubt  arrived  at  that  conclusion  from  the  somewhat  obscure  entry  in  the 
Testa  de  Nevill.'  It  is  there  stated  that  Mendlesham  was  given  by  Hen.  I. 
to  Odo  de  Danmartin  by  service  of  a  knight's  fee,  and  by  King  John  under 
the  same  service  to  Robert  de  Burgh  ;  but  it  is  clear  that  Hugh,  the  son  of 
Otho  de  Danmartin,  or  Hugh  Fitz  Otho,  as  he  was  more  usually  called, 
had  the  lordship  in  the  early  part  of  the  reign  of  King  Edw.  I.,  for  in 
the  ninth  year  of  this  sovereign  a  patent  was  granted  to  him  for  a 
market  and  a  fair  in  Mendlesham.3  He  was  master  of  the  King's  mint, 
and  died  without  issue  in  1283,'  when  the  manor  went  to  his  sister  and  heir 
Maud,5  married  to  Sir  John  de  Botetourt,  who  had  livery  of  this  lordship 
in  1302  in  his  wife's  right,  and  was  summoned  to  Parliament  as  a  Baron  in 
1308.  From  the  Abbreviation  of  Pleas  we  learn  that  in  1314  Sir  Peter  de 
Burgate  released  all  right  in  the  manor  to  Sir  John  de  Botetourt  and  Matilda 
his  wife.6 

Botetourt  was  admiral  of  the  Norfolk  coast  in  1295,  and  stood  in  high 
favour  with  King  Edw.  I.,  being  appointed  wih  Matilda  his  wife  to  attend  at 
Ipswich  upon  the  King's  daughter  Elizabeth,  with  John,  Earl  of  Holland. 
He  was  also  one  of  those  104  Earls  and  Barons  who,  in  the  name  of  the 
Commonalty  of  England,  sent  a  letter  to  the  Pope,  asserting  that  the  King- 
dom of  Scotland  was  not  of  his  fee,  and  denying  him  all  jurisdiction  in  tem- 
poral matters.  He  was  also  a  Justice  of  Tray  I  Basion  in  several  counties. 
In  1310  a  licence  was  granted  to  Sir  John  empowering  him  to  alienate  lands 
and  rents  here  in  mortmain  to  the  value  of  loos,  for  a  chaplain  to  celebrate 
in  Mendlesham  church.7 

In  1322  a  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  by  Sir  John  Botetourt  and 
Matilda  his  wife  against  Hugh  Pirpount.8  Sir  John  de  Botetourt  died  in 
1324.'  And  on  the  Close  Rolls  in  1325  we  find  an  order  not  to  intermeddle 
further  with  the  manor,  and  to  restore  same  to  Matilda,  late  wife  of  John 
"  Botecourt,"  as  they  were  jointly  enfeoffed  by  Hugh  Pirpount.10 

The  manor  passed  to  his  fifth  son,  Otho  de  Botetourt.  In  1330  we  find 
on  the  Patent  Rolls  a  licence  empowering  this  Otho  de  Botetourt  to  alienate 
in  mortmain  a  messuage,  30  acres,  and  305.  rent  in  Mendlesham  to  a  chap- 
lain to  celebrate  in  the  parish  church  for  the  souls  of  John  de  Botetourt 
and  Matilda  his  wife,  and  the  same  year  authority  for  him  to  retain  the 
manor  on  grant  of  other  lands." 

Otho  de  Botetourt  died  in  1345,"  when  the  manor  went  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Sir  John  de  Botetourt,  who  married  Catherine,  2nd  daughter  of 
Sir  Robert  (?  William)  de  Weyland,  and  Cecilia  his  wife,  daughter  of 
Thomas  de  Baldock.  Amongst  the  Harleian  Charters  in  the  British  Museum 

•Close  Rolls,  10  Hen.  III.  18.  6Abbr.  of  PI.  8  Edw.  II.  Mich.  48. 

»p.  296.  'Pat.  Rolls,  4  Edw.  II.  pt.  ii.  17. 

3 Chart.  Rolls,  9  Edw.  I.  78.  "Feet  of  Fines,  16  Edw.  II.  36. 

4I.P.M.,  II  Edw.  I.  20.  »I.P.M.,  18  Edw.  II.  56. 

» The  author  of  "  The  Complete  Peerage  "  I0  Close  Rolls,  18  Edw.  II.  20. 

states  that  she  was  sister  of  Otho  "  I.Q.D.,  4  Edw.  III.,  File  210,  2. 

Fitz    Thomas     and   daughter    of  "  I. P.M.,  19  Edw.  III.  9. 

Thomas  Fitz  Otho  or  Gates. 


MENDLESHAM.  279 

is  a  deed  in  1355  by  Sir  John  "  Botourte,"  granting  to  Sir  Ralph  de  Hemen- 
hale  an  annual  rent  out  of  this  manor.  The  deed  is  dated  die  Dom.  in 
Passione  Dom.  29  Edw.  III.1  Sir  Johndiedabout  1377, and  Joan  Botetourt, 
his  daughter  and  coheir,  married  John  Knyvet,  son  of  Sir  John  Knyvet, 
of  Buckenham  Castle,  in  Norfolk,  Lord  Chancellor  of  England  in  1371. 

John  Knyvet  was  one  of  the  knights  of  the  shire  for  co.  Huntingdon, 
21  Rich.  II.  A  shield  on  the  stone  work  of  the  west  door  of  Mendlesham 
Manor,  much  worn,  appears  to  bear  the  arms  of  John  Knyvet.  The  brass, 
which  now  lies  in  the  nave,  but  which  not  long  ago  lay  in  the  south  aisle, 
probably  represents  this  John  Knyvet. 

The  brass  is  that  of  a  knight  in  the  plate  armour  of  the  beginning  of  the 
i5th  century.  The  only  coat  upon  the  brass  still  remaining,  viz.,  3  piles 
within  a  bordure  sable,  charged  with  besants,is  that  of  his  mother,  Eleanor, 
wife  of  the  Lord  Chancellor,  and  one  of  the  coheirs  of  Ralph  Basset,  of 
Welledon.  But  when  Sir  J.  Blois  made  his  church  notes,  there  were  two 
other  coats  of  arms,  viz.,  Knyvet,  impaling  Fitz  Otho,  or  Botetourt 
(Bendy  of  6  a  canton)  and  Knyvet  impaling  Basset.  It  also  bore  this : 
"  Hie  jacet  John  Knyvet  A.  Dom.  istius  villae  qui  obiit  1417."  Upon 
the  west  door  the  two  coats,  noted  by  Sir  J.  Blois  as  Botetourt,  impaling 
Weyland  and  Knyvet  quartering  Botetourt,  seem  to  imply  that  the  church 
tower  was  completed,  if  not  built,  by  John  Knyvet.  It  is  pleasant  to  think 
that  he  may  have  used  his  ample  fortune  to  complete  church  work  begun 
by  the  family,  the  heiress  of  which  he  married.  The  Knyvet  hall  is  said  to 
have  stood  to  the  east  of  the  church.  Mendlesham  remained  in  the  Knyvet 
family  for  several  generations.  After  the  Reformation  they  appear  to'iave 
become  possessed  of  the  advowson,  which  had  been  originally  granted  by 
William  Rufus  to  the  Abbey  of  Battle. 

Joan  died  in  1417,  when  the  manor  passed  to  her  son  and  heir,  Sir  John 
Knyvet.  He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  Constantine  de  Clifton, 
2nd  Baron  Clifton  (by  Elizabeth  his  wife,  daughter  of  Robert,  Lord  Scales), 
by  whom  he  ultimately  acquired  Buckenham  Castle,  in  Norfolk.  He  became 
sheriff  for  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  in  1391.  A  fine  of  the  manor 
was  levied  in  1441  between  William  de  la  Pole,  Earl  of  Suffolk,  Sir  Thomas 
Tudenham,  John  Heyton,  and  Thomas  Shuldeham,  against  Sir  John  Knyvet, 
senior,  and  John  Knyvet,  junior,  and  Alice  his  wife.2  Sir  John  Knyvet, 
senior,  died  in  1441,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John 
Knyvet,  who  married  Alice,  daughter  and  heir  of  William  Lynnes.3  He 
died  in  1489-90,  and  his  inquisition  p.m.  states  that  Richard  Brenamon 
gave  the  manor  to  John  Knyvet  and  Alice  his  wife,  who  survived,  with 
remainder  to  his  heirs,  that  he  died  5  Hen.  VII.,  when  the  reversion 
descended  to  Sir  William  Knyvet,  aged  50,  as  son  and  heir.  It  is  also 
stated  that  the  manor  was  worth  £20,  held  of  the  King  as  of  the  Duchy  of 
Lancaster,  by  fealty  and  id.  rent.  On  Sir  William  Knyvet's  death  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Edmund,  who  married  Eleanor,  daughter  of 
Sir  William  and  sister  of  Sir  James  Tyrell,  Knt.,  of  Gipping,  and  was  killed 
in  a  fight  at  sea  in  the  time  of  Hen.  VIII.,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his 
son  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  Knyvet,  Master  of  the  Horse  and  Standard  Bearer 
to  Hen.  VIII.  He  married  Muriel,  daughter  of  Thomas,  Duke  of  Norfolk, 
and  on  his  death  the  manor  devolved  on  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Edmund 
Knyvet,  who  married  Joan,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Shelton,  and  dying  the 
manor  vested  in  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  Knyvet,  of  Buckenham  Castle.4 

1  Harl.  47  F.  15.  3  Mon.  at  Buckenham. 

2  Feet  of  Fines,  19  Hen.  VI.  24.  4Inq.  5  Hen.  VII.  624. 


28o  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Sir  \Villiam  was  attainted  i  Rich.  III.,  but  afterwards  restored.  He 
married  Alice,  daughter  of  John,  brother  of  Reginald,  Lord  Grey  of  Ruthyn, 
and  zndly  Joan,  daughter  of  Humphrey  Stafford,  Duke  of  Buckingham, 
and  widow  of  William,  Viscount  Beaumont.  In  the  5th  Report  of  the 
Historical  Commissioners'  an  agreement  in  1564  is  mentioned  between  this 
Sir  Thomas  Knyvet,  described  as  lord  of  the  Manor  of  Mendlesham,  of  the 
one  part,  and  the  tenants  of  the  said  manor  of  the  other  part,  for  ending 
controversy  respecting  the  customs  of  the  manor,  and  denning  the  rights 
of  the  lord  and  the  liabilities  of  tenants.  It  is  dated  Mock-Mundaye  6th 
of  Elizabeth.  Sir  Thomas  Knyvet's  will  is  dated  22nd  Sept.  1569.  He  died 
the  same  year,  having  devised  his  Manor  of  Mendlesham  to  his  next  heir. 
By  his  will  he  appears  also  to  have  held  the  advowson  of  the  vicarage. 

The  next  heir  was  the  testator's  son,  Sir  Thomas  Knyvet,  by  Catharine, 
daughter  of  the  Earl  of  Derby.  Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of 
the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  will  be  found  a  suit  between  Richard  Garnyshe 
and  Sir  Thomas  Knyvet,  and  another,  touching  copyholds  of  this  manor/ 
and  another,  also  touching  copyholds  of  the  manor,  between  William  Hunte 
and  Sir  Thomas  Knyvet.3  Sir  Thomas  Knyvet  married  Catharine, 
daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Lovel,  of  East  Herling,  and  died  in  1594,  when  the 
manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Philip  Knyvet,  created  a  Bart.  22nd 
May,  roll.  He  married  Katherine,  daughter  and  heir  of  Charles  Ford,  of 
Butley  Abbey,  and  sold  most  of  the  Suffolk  property  of  the  Knyvets. 

This  manor  was  acquired  by  John  Eldred,  of  the  city  of  London,  and 
he  sold  it  to  Thomas  Goodwyn,  of  Little  Stonham,  and  conveyed  the 
property  to  him  by  indenture  dated  3ist  January,  1615,  enrolled  in  the 
High  Court  of  Chancery  3rd  Oct.  following. 

In  1616  we  find  an  agreement  referred  to  in  the  5th  Report  of  the 
Historical  Commissioners4  made  between  this  Thomas  Goodwyn,  described 
as  lord  of  the  Manor  of  Mendlesham,  of  the  one  part,  and  the  tenants  of  the 
said  manor  of  the  other  part,  for  settling  controversies  respecting  the  customs 
of  the  manor,  and  fixing  the  rights  and  liabilities  of  the  lord  and  his 
tenant?. 

The  indenture  recites  the  earlier  agreement  between  Sir  Thomas  Knyvet 
and  the  tenants,  and  states  that  after  purchasing  the  manor  of  Sir  Thomas, 
John  Eldred,  Esquire  (from  whom  Thomas  Goodwyn  bought  the  manor), 
endeavoured  to  set  aside  the  arrangement  made  between  Sir  Thomas  and 
the  tenants.  The  Report  referred  to  also  mentions  an  inspeximus  of  the  enrol- 
ment of  the  above  agreement,  and  of  proceedings  in  the  Court  of  Chancery, 
together  with  the  final  decree  of  the  court,  giving  effect  to  the  agreement. 
The  great  seal  of  this  charter  is  perfect.  The  same  Report  also  mentions 
an  inspeximus  of  the  enrolment  of  the  same  indenture,  with  record  of 
proceedings  and  decree  in  the  court  of  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster. 

On  Sir  Thomas  Goodwyn's  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Ambrose  Goodwyn,  of  Little  Stonham,  and  a  mortgage  was  made  by 
him  5th  Oct.  1642,  to  Dame  Jane  Bacon,  relict  of  Sir  Nathaniel  Bacon,  of 
Culford,  K.B.,  for  securing  a  sum  of  £640.  The  mortgage  was  made  by 
demise  for  a  thousand  years  at  a  pepercorn  rent.  Ambrose  Goodwin's 
wife  was  named  Mary.  The  manor  subsequently  vested  in  Sir  Edmund 
Duke,  Bart.,  from  whom  it  passed  by  his  will  to  his  nephew,  Edmund 
Tyrell,  of  Gipping,  who  held  in  1740.  From  Edmund  Tyrell,  the  manor 

'p.  595-  3Ib.  B.  xlvi.  43. 

*C.P.  ser.  ii.  B.  Ixxvii.^ig.  4p.  595. 


MENDLESHAM.  281 

passed  in  the  same  line  of  devolution  as  the  Manor  of  Gipping  Hall,  in  Stow 
Hundred,  to  Charles  Alexander  Browne,  R.N.,  and  Walter  William  Browne, 
R.N.,  who  sold  the  same  to  Messrs.  Beaumont  and  Son,  the  present  lords. 

As  to  customs  of  the  manor,  and  rolls,  see  5th  Report  Hist.  Com. 
295,  K.R.  6  App.  ii.  p.  88.  Also  as  to  the  manor  house  of  Mendlesham 
and  Proceedings  in  Court  see  5th  Rep.  Hist.  Com.  295,  296.  Extracts  from 
Court  Rolls  of  the  manor  will  be  found  amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in 
the  British  Museum  for  1530-31,'  for  1539,"  for  I548,3  and  for  1629."  A 
Roll  of  Proceedings  in  the  Manor  Court  of  Mendlesham  15  Eliz. 
before  the  homage  and  jury,  John  Heigham  being  a  special  steward,  to 
determine  the  custom  with  the  verdict  of  the  jury,  was  exhibited  at  a  meet- 
ing of  the  Suffolk  Institute,  4th  July,  1855. 5 

Amongst  the  Parish  Papers  of  Mendlesham  are  15  copies  (on  parch- 
ment) of  proceedings  in  the  court  of  the  manor  of  Mendlesham,  all  of  them 
recording  the  admission  of  customary  tenants  of  the  manor.6 

Arms  of  BOTETOURT  :  Ermine  ;  a  saltier  engrailed,  Gules  (Guillim 
says,  Or  ;  a  saltier  engrailed,  Sable).  Of  KNYVET  :  Arg.  a  bend  within 
a  bordure  engrailed,  Sa. 

MANOR  OF  WINCHESTERS. 

In  1285  Roger  de  Winchester  appears  to  have  had  land  here,  and  a  little 
later  Thomas  Wynchestre. 

In  1317  we  find  on  the  Patent  Rolls  an  exemption  for  life  to  John  de 
Wyncestre,  of  Mendlesham,  from  being  put  on  juries,  assizes,  or  recogni- 
tions, and  from  being  sheriff,  coroner,  bailiff,  &c.,7  but  it  does  not  appear 
that  he  was  ever  lord. 

In  the  reign  of  Edw.  III.  Sir  John  Garde  vile,  Knt.,  held  the  manor,  and 
later  Clarice  Sexteyn,  of  Stoke  by  Ipswich,  widow,  cousin  and  heir  of 
John  Lynne  (or  Zymme),  chaplain. 

Amongst  the  Early  Chancery  Proceedings  will  be  found  an  action 
relating  to  the  manor  with  lands  in  Mendlesham,  Stonham  Parva,  and 
Wetheringsett,  by  this  Clarice  Sexteyn,  described  as  of  Stoke  by  Ipswich, 
widow,  against  Richard  Poley.8  Amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the 
British  Museum  is  a  release  in  1456  by  Sir  Philip  Wentworth,  Henry  Went- 
worth,  Gilbert  Debenham,  and  others,  to  William  Tyrell,  John  Clopton, 
and  others,  of  this  manor.9  The  deed  is  dated  igth  Jan.  34  Hen.  VI.,  and 
has  eight  seals. 

In  1458  a  lease  for  21  years  was  made  of  the  manor  by  John,  Duke  of 
Norfolk,  Thomas,  Bishop  of  Ely,  Richard,  Earl  of  Warwick,  Ralph,  Lord 
Cromwell,  and  others,  to  John  Knyvet,  Thomas  Colke,  William  Brandon, 
and  others;  and  the  following  year  Thomas,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
John,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  Richard,  Earl  of  Warwick,  Ralph,  Lord  Cromwell, 
and  others,  conveyed  to  George  Lampet  and  John  Senyele;  and  the  following 
year  Sir  John  Wentworth,  Henry  Wentworth,  Gilbert  Debenham,  John 
Bernard,  Nicholas  Parker,  Thomas  Devyle,  William  Meyth,  and  Simon 
Poley,  released  to  William  Tyrell,  senior,  John  Clopton,  Robert  Whetyng- 
ham,  Nicholas  Husy,  Thomas  Cornwaleys,  and  Thomas  Brun.  In  the 

'Add.  Ch.  10473.  65th  Rep.  Hist.  Com.  p.  596. 

"Add.  Ch.  10471.  ?Pat.  Rolls,  n  Edw.  II.  pt.  ii.  32. 

3  Add.  Ch.  19371,  19404.  «E.C.P.,  8  Hen.  IV.— 35  Hen.  VI.  Bundle 

4  Add.  Ch.  10487.  17.342. 

s  S.I.  ii.  209.  9  Add.  Ch.  10469. 

MI 


282  THE   MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

reign  of  Hen.  VIII.  the  manor  was  vested  in  Richard  Garneys,  2nd  son  of 
Thomas  Garneys,  of  Kenton  Hall.  He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of 
William  Topesfield,  and  of  Eleanor  his  wife,  who  was  daughter  and  heir  of 
Richard  Clinche,  of  Gislingham.  Richard  Garneys  died  seised  of  the  manor 
I4th  May,  1515,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Garneys.1  He 
married  Ursula,  daughter  of  Thomas  Berney,  of  Reedham,  in  Norfolk,  and 
purchased  the  Manor  of  Moringthorp  and  Boyland  Hall  in  that  county,  and 
about  the  year  1534  removed  from  Mendlesham.  On  his  death  this  manor 
went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Richard  Garneys,  of  Boyland  and  Mendlesham, 
and  he  in  1571  built  Boyland  Hall,  where  he  continued  to  reside. 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  this  period  is  an  action  touching 
the  manor  between  Richard  "  Garners  "  and  William  Dunkon.2  Richard 
Garneys  died  without  issue  in  1586,  leaving  a  widow  Margaret,  and  John 
Downes  and  Thomas  Shurland,  his  cousins  and  heirs ;  and  in  1590  a  fine 
was  levied  of  the  manor  by  the  widow  Margaret  Garneys  against  the  said 
John  Downes.3 

In  1602  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  John  Seaman,  and  this  year  a  fine 
of  it  was  levied  against  him  by  W.  Battes  and  others.4 

CORDEBOEF'S  MANOR  OR  FREE  TENT,  CORBORNES. 

This  manor  in  the  time  of  King  John  was  vested  in  John  de  Cordeboef. 
He  held  by  the  serjeanty  of  serving  the  King  of  England  on  the  Marches 
for  40  days,  with  a  cross  bowman  and  two  horses  at  his  own  cost.  On  the 
death  of  John  de  Cordeboef  the  manor  descended  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Hubert  de  Cordeboef. 

The  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer  calls  him  Hubert  Cornu  Bovis,  and 
states  that  he  held  his  land  by  the  service  of  Arblaster.5  The  Testa  de 
Nevill  adds  the  information  that  he  had  in  Mendlesham  a  carucate  under 
the  gift  of  William  I.  of  the  value  of  cs.6  The  next  lord  was  Hubert's 
son  and  heir,  Sir  John  de  Cordeboef,  who  in  1247  compounded  with  the 
King  in  respect  of  the  serjeanty  by  paying  to  the  Crown  305.  yearly.  On 
Sir  John  de  Cordeboef 's  death  in  12507  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Hubert  de  Cordeboef,  from  whom  it  went  to  Thomas  de  Cordeboef. 
He  died  in  1280  seised  of  one  messuage,  60  acres  of  land,  10  acres  of  wood, 
and  9  acres  of  pasture,  with  the  appurtenances  in  this  parish,  which  he  held 
of  the  King  in  chief,  "  by  the  service  of  one  archer  to  serve  our  lord  the  King 
for  forty  days  at  the  Castle  of  Ipswich."8  He  was  succeeded  by  his  son, 
John  de  Cordeboef,  who  died  in  1300,'  when  the  manor  passed  to  John 
"  Quendeboef ,"  who  died  in  1319.  Page  says  :  "  Nicholas  Cordeboef  died 
seised,  and  about  1285,  Thomas,  his  son  and  heir,  deceased  also  ;  when 
the  King  granted  his  heir  in  ward  to  Roger  de  Wincheter,  who  conveyed 
his  wardship  to  John  de  Melles  and  Margerey  his  wife,  late  widow  of  Thomas 
de  Cordeboef ;  and  Joan,  Basil,  Roisia,  Maud,  and  Alice  were  their 
daughters  and  heiresses.  Though  this  branch  centered  in  these  daughters, 
yet  another  male  branch,  at  this  parish,  remained  till  the  death  of  John 
Cordeboef,  in  1319,  where  Agnes, wife  of  William  de  Roydon,  was  his  sister 
and  heir."  Page  unfortunately  omits  to  tell  us  who  Nicholas  de  Cordeboef 
was. 

'I.P.M.,  7  Hen.  VIII.  114.  6T.  de  N.  296,  300. 

•C.P.  ser.  ii.  B.  Ixxvii.  15.  7I.P.M.,  34  Hen.  III.,  File  10  (12). 

JFine,  Mich.  32-33  Eliz.  "I.P.M.,  9  Edw.  I.  12. 

4  Fine,  Easter,  44  Eliz.  9I.P.M.,  28  Edw.   I.   25. 

5l2io-i2,  132  Bd. 


MENDLESHAM, 


283 


Davy  informs  us  that  Agnes,  who  married  William  de  Roydon,  was 
the  sister  of  John  de  Cordeboef  who  died  in  1300.  We  find  in  1382  that 
Robert  de  Bernham  died  seised  of  a  tenement  called  Cordebef,  in  Mendles- 
ham,  held  as  of  Norwich  Castle.1 

Davy  suggests  that  in  the  time  of  Hen.  VII.  Richard  Garneys  may  have 
had  the  manor,  as  also  John,  his  son,  and  subsequently  Richard  Garneys. 

In  1566  the  manor  was  apparently  in  William  Atwood,  for  he  had  licence 
this  year  to  alien  "  Cutts  and  Corboes,"  to  John  Shurland.  He  by  will 
devised  the  manor  to  his  executors  for  a  term,  and  then  to  his  son,  John 
Shurland,  who  died  without  issue  in  1584. 

In  1609  the  manor  was  vested  in  Sir  Stephen  Soame. 

MANOR  OF  BUSSHES  OR  BUCES,  al.  BUSSES. 

In  1303  this  was  the  lordship  of  Simon  Busshe,  or  Busch,  who  is  mentioned 
on  the  Patent  Rolls  in  1314.*  He  had  acquired  a  considerable  portion  of 
the  estate  with  Richard  Busch  from  John  de  Wynchestre  and  Margery 
Cordebeof,  and  the  property  was  limited  to  Simon  Busch  and  Richard 
Busch,  and  the  heirs  of  Richard. 

It  seems  that  Richard  died  in  the  lifetime  of  Simon  without  male  issue, 
and  Richard  devised  the  estate  to  (his  nephew)  John  Busch,  at  whose  death 
the  lands  were  taken  into  the  King's  hands.  Richard  Busch,  it  seems,  left 
a  daughter  Matilda,  who  married  Richard  de  Remshales,  and  John  Busch 
made  a  fine  with  him  and  granted  that  Richard  and  Matilda  should  have  the 
premises  to  hold  to  them,  and  the  heirs  of  Matilda  ;3  and  the  same  year  we 
find  on  the  Close  Rolls  an  order  to  the  escheator  not  to  intermeddle  with  a 
messuage,  120  acres  of  land,  4  acres  of  meadow,  and  3  acres  of  wood  in 
Mendlesham,  restoring  the  issues  thereof  to  Matilda,  late  daughter  of  John 
(sic)  Busche.4 

The  Originalia  Rolls  throw  further  light  on  the  subject,  for  there  we 
learn  that  the  King  took  fealty  of  Richard  de  Romshale  (Remshale),  who 
had  married  Matilda,  daughter  of  Richard  Busch,  deceased,  for  I  messuage, 
60  acres  of  land,  10  of  meadow,  and  10  of  wood  in  Mendlesham,  which  they 
held  in  chief  by  service  of  i  cross-bowman  for  40  days,  in  the  King's  wars 
in  Wales,  and  305., 5  and  on  the  same  Rolls  is  a  pardon  to  Richard  de  Rem- 
shale for  acquiring  certain  tenements.6 

Though  the  estate  seems  to  have  been  limited  to  Simon  Busch  and 
Richard  Busch,  and  the  heirs  of  the  latter  only,  Simon  appears  to  have 
acquired  in  some  way  an  estate  of  inheritance  in  a  half. 

He  died  in  1323, 7  when  he  was  succeeded  by  his  nephew  John,  the  son 
of  Martin  Busch,  the  brother  of  Simon,  and  from  the  Originalia  Rolls  this 
same  year  we  find  that  the  King  took  homage  of  "  John,  son  of  Martin 
Bussh,  brother  and  heir  of  Simon  Busshe,"  of  all  lands,  which  the  said 
Simon  held.8 

John  Busshe  or  Busch  died  in  1336,'  and  was  succeeded  by  his  brother 
Martin,  and  he  by  his  son  John,  who  died  in  1364. 10 

The  messuage,  60  acres  of  land,  10  of  meadow,  and  10  of  wood,  passed 
subsequently  to  Robert  de  Bernham,  and  were  acquired  from  him  by  John 


'  I.P.M.,  6  Rich.  II.  86. 

» Pat.  Rolls,  8  Edw.  II.  pt.  i.  25. 

3  Pat.  Rolls,  10  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  37. 

«  Close  Rolls,  to  Edw.  III.  39. 

s  O.  10  Edw.  III.  4. 

«/&.  22. 


7I.P.M.,  17  Edw.  II.  II. 
»O.  17  Edw.  II.  21. 
9I.P.M.,  10  Edw.  III.  20. 
10  80  acres  in  Mendlesham,  as  of  Castle  of 

Norwich,  John  Busshe.    I.P.M.,  38 

Edw.  III.  7. 


284  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Herlyng  and  others  in  fee,  for  we  find  a  pardon  on  the  Patent  Rolls  in 
1381  to  John  Herlyng  in  respect  of  the  purchase.1 

In  the  i6th  century  the  manor  was  vested  in  the  Docker  family. 
Myles  Docker  had  acquired  from  Thomas  Gawdy  and  other?  in  1579,* 
and  amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Elizabeth  is  a  claim 
by  descent  of  Bridget,  wife  of  Henry  Edgar,  of  Dinnington,  and  Alice, 
wife  of  Thomas  Keble,  daughter?  and  heirs  of  Myles  Docker,  against  the  said 
Anthony  Gawdy  to  the  manor.3  Later  the  manor  was  vested  in  Miles 
Edgar,4  son  and  heir  of  Henry,  and  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry  Edgar, 
of  Eye.  He  married  Dorothy,  daughter  of  Robert  Richmond,  of  Heden- 
ham,  co.  Norfolk,  and  by  his  will,  dated  1705,  gave  the  manor  to  Mary,  his 
daughter,  wife  of  Charles  Gibson,  clerk,  for  life,  with  remainder  in  fee  to 
Edgar  Gibson,  her  son,  and  testator's  godson.  On  Mary's  death  the  manor 
went  to  her  son  and  heir,  Edgar  Gibson.  The  manor,  or  reputed  manor,  with 
163  acres,  was  offered  for  sale  by  private  contract  in  1834  and  1835.' 

MANOR  OF  FLEDE  HALL  OR  FLEDD'S  HALL  (?OR  WALKAMES). 

Possibly  this  is  the  same  manor  as  Fleed  or  Flude  Hall,  in  Stonham, 
in  Bosmere  and  Claydon  Hundred.  The  first  family  we  meet  with  holding 
this  lordship  is  the  family  of  Sentlowe,  and  in  1448  we  find  amongst  the 
Early  Chancery  Proceedings  a  suit  by  one  Sentlowe,  Esq.,  against  Edmund 
Sentlowe,  petitioner's  brother,  as  to  the  manor.6 

There  is  the  difficulty  that  Robert  Crane  is  said  to  have  died  seised 
of  the  manor  26th  Oct.  1447.  Whether  this  manor  is  meant  is  not  clear, 
but  it  is  certain  Robert's  brother  and  heir,  John  Crane,  died  seised  i6th 
August,  1504,*  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Crane,  on 
whose  death  in  1550  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Robert,  who.  dying  in 
1591,  it  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry  Crane,  of  Chilton.8 

The  following  is  the  provision  in  the  will  of  Robert  Crane,  7th  Oct. 
1590,  as  to  this  manor :  "And  Whereas  I  saied  Robert  Crane,  by  Indenture 
bearinge  date  the  last  daye  of  December,  in  the  one  and  thirtithe  Yere  of 
the  Raigne  of  or  soueraigne  Ladie  Elizabethe,  the  quene's  Mate  that  nowe  ys, 
made  betwene  me  the  saied  Robert  Crane  of  the  one  partie,  and  the  saied 
Robert  Reue  of  the  other  partie,  by  me  sealed  and  as  my  deede  Delyuered 
before  the  approuinge  and  publishinge  of  this  my  last  will  and  testament, 
for  the  considerac'on  in  the  same  Indenture  expressed,  haue  demysed, 
graunted,  and  to  ffearme  letten  to  the  saied  Robert  Reve  all  those  my 
mannors  of  ffledhall  and  waltam  hall,  with  th'  appurtenances  and  all  the 
freehoulde  and  Charter  landes,  tenements,  meadowes,  pastures,  feedinges, 
woodes,  vnderwoodes,  rentes,  suites,  services,  and  hereditaments,  with 
theire  appurtenances  whatsoeuer,  thereunto  belonginge,  or  otherwise 
accepted,  reputed,  Demised,  letten,  or  taken  as  parte,  p'cell,  or  member 
thereof,  in  the  saied  Countie  of  Suffolke,  and  all  other  the  freehould  and 
charter  Landes,  tenements,  and  heredytaments  of  me  the  saied  Robert  Crane, 
with  the  appurtenances  whatsoeuer,  situat,  lyinge,  and  beinge  in  little 
Stonham  and  Mendlesham,  in  the  saied  county  of  Suff.  being  an  other 
part  of  the  possessions  of  me  the  saied  Robert  Crane,  to  haue  and  to  houlde 
the  saied  Mannors  of  ffledhall  and  waltam  hall,  and  all  and  singuler  other 
the  saied  Demised  premises,  with  their  and  euery  of  theire  appurtenances, 

'Pat.  Rolls,  5  Rich.  II.  pt.  ii.  lo.  5 Ipswich  Journal,  28th  June,  1834,  and 
•Fine,  Hil.  21   Eliz.  6th  June,  1835. 

«C.P.  i.  281.  6E.C.P.,  27  Hen.  VI.  Bundle  16,  202. 

«See  Capel  Manor,  in  Trimley,  in  Carlford  7I.P.M.,  20  Hen.  VII. 

Hundred.  'See  Chilton  Manor, in  Babergh  Hundred. 


MENDLESHAM.  285 

to  the  saied  Robert  Reue,  his  executors,  Administrators,  and  assignes, 
from  and  after  the  end,  expirac'on,  surrender,  fforfeiture,  or  other  Deter- 
minac'on  of  one  Lease  or  graunte  heretofore  made  by  me  the  saied  Robert 
Crane,  of  the  saied  Demised  premises  to  John  Warberton,  gent,  untill  the 
full  end  and  tearme,  and  by  the  whole  tearme  and  space  of  twentie  and  one 
yeres  from  thenceforth  next  and  ymediatlye  followinge,  and  fullie  to  be 
compleate  and  ended  as  by  the  saied  Indent's  at  Large,  yt  dothe  and  maye 
appeare  My  minde  and  desire  ys  that  I  do  hereby  require  that  all  and  euery 
person  and  persons  which  haue  or  shall  haue  any  Interest  of  and  in  the 
saied  demised  premises,  by  or  from  me  the  saied  Robert  Crane,  shall  and 
will  ratifie,  approue,  and  confirme  the  sayed  graunte  and  tearme  to  the 
saied  Robert  Reve,  his  exequutors,  Administrators,  and  assignes,  and  euery 
of  them,  peaceablie  and  quietlye,  to  haue,  houlde,  and  enioye  all  and  singuler 
the  saied  Demised  premises  with  the  appurtenances,  and  the  yssues  and 
profittes  of  them  and  euery  of  them,  according  to  the  purporte  and  true 
meaninge  of  the  saied  Indenture.  And  I  do  hereby  demise,  lymitt,  and 
declare,  and  my  will  and  meaninge  ys  that  after  the  saied  tearme  of  twentie 
and  one  Yeres,  entered  or  Determyned,  and  after  the  decease  of  the  sayed 
Robert  Crane,  then  the  Reuerc'on  or  Remayndr  of  the  freehould  of  all  and 
singuler  the  Demised  premises,  together  with  the  Yerelie  Rente  in  and  by  the 
saied  Lease  reserued,  shalbe  to  the  only  vse  and  behoof  e  of  the  saied  Catherine 
and  of  her  assignes,  for  and  duringe  the  tearme  of  her  naturall  life.  And  yf 
it  shall  fortune  the  saied  Catherine  to  Dye  during  the  minoritie  of  the  saied 
Robert,  her  sonne,  the  sayed  Robert  Reve  shall  or  maye  Reteyne  and  kepe 
in  his  handes  so  muche  of  the  sayed  yerely  Rent,  reserved  in  and  vppon  the 
saied  Demise  to  hym  made  as  aforesaied,  as  shall  accrue  after  the  Decease 
of  the  saied  Catherine  during  and  vntill  th'endor  determynac'onof  the  saied 
Demise  (yf  the  saied  Robert  Reve  shall  so  long  liue).  And  my  Will  and 
mynde  ys,  and  I  do  hereby  Demise,  ordeyne,  and  appoynte  that  yf  both  the 
saied  Catherine  and  Robert  Reue  shall  departe  this  naturall  life  before  the 
end  or  expirac'on  of  the  foresaied  Lease  made  to  the  saied  Robert  Reue, 
Then  such  person  or  persons  as  then  shalbe  righte  heire  to  the  saied  Robert 
Reue  shall  haue  and  take  to  his  or  theire  propper  vse  so  muche  of  the  saied 
yerelie  rent  as  after  the  decease  of  the  saied  Catherine  and  Robert  Reue 
shall  growe  due  duringe  the  residue  of  the  minoritie  of  the  saied  Robert 
Crane,  sonne  of  the  saied  Catherine.  And  my  will  and  mynde  ys  that 
the  saied  Catherine,  during  her  naturall  life,  at  her  propper  costs  and 
chardges,  to  the  best  of  her  skill  and  lawfull  power,  shall  Defende,  awnswere, 
and  withstand  all  such  sewtes,  Acc'os,  quarrells,  titles,  trespasses,  and  all 
other  trebles  whatsoeuer,  shall  or  maye  at  any  tyme  Duringe  her  estate  in 
the  premises,  be  attempted,  commenced,  or  broughte  against  her  the  saied 
Catherine,  or  any  her  ffarmer  or  ffarmers,  for  vppon  or  against  any  partie 
of  the  same.  And  shall  allso  after  that  she  shall  haue  and  enioye  the  actuall 
possession  and  mayntenance  of  the  premises  to  her  before  Lymited,  duringe 
her  estate  in  the  same  premises  well  and  sufficientlye  uphould,  maynteyne, 
and  repayre  at  her  proper  costes  and  chardges,  all  the  houses,  buildinges, 
pales,  Rayles,  gates,  and  quicksetts,  which  at  the  tyme  of  her  comming 
to  the  possession  of  the  premises  so  to  her  before  Lymited,  shalbe  standinge 
or  being  vppon  any  parte  of  the  same,  at  all  tymes  and  from  tyme  to  tyme 
during  her  estate  therein,  as  neede  shall  require.  And  in  the  end  of  her  saied 
estate  shall  so  leaue  and  Ycalde  vp  the  same,  and  shall  allso  paye  all  manner 
of  outrents  goyng  out  of  the  same  premises,  or  any  parte  theirof,  duringe 
her  saied  actuall  possession  and  mannoraunce  of  the  same  premises  or  any 
parte  thereof." 


286  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

OAKLEY, 

|HE  manor  held  in  this  place  in  the  time  of  the  Domesday 
Survey  is  enumerated  therein  together  with  Brome,  it  being 
composed  of  2  carucates,  one  in  Brome  and  the  other  in 
Oakley.  The  description  and  particulars  have  been  already 
given  under  Brome.  Another  estate  in  Oakley  was  that 
of  Robert  Malet,  and  held  of  him  by  William  Gulafra.  It 
consisted  of  30  acres  and  2  freemen,  with  half  an  acre,  half  a 
ploughteam,  i  J  acres  of  meadow,  and  a  mill,  valued  at  IDS.  It  had  formerly 
been  held  by  Godman,  a  freeman  under  Edric's  commendation.1 

Belonging  to  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmund's  were  three  estates 
here.  The  first  had  formerly  been  held  by  a  freeman,  Gooding  the  steward, 
under  commendation  to  the  abbot,  having  neither  the  power  to  sell  nor  give 
his  estate.  It  consisted  of  90  acres  of  land,  5  bordars,  i  ploughteam 
in  demesne  and  half  belonging  to  the  men,  wood  sufficient  to  support  five 
hogs,  2  acres  of  meadow,  a  mill,  a  rouncy,  2  beasts,  and  5  sheep,  valued  at 
2os.  Under  him  were  10  freemen  holding  30  acres,  ii  ploughteams,  and  2 
acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  ios.,  the  soc,  sac,  and  commendation  being 
held  by  the  abbot ;  also  two  (third)  parts  of  a  church,  with  12  acres, 
valued  at  i6d.'  The  second  had  formerly  been  held  by  Leuseda,  a  free- 
woman  under  Gotselin,  who  could  neither  sell  nor  give  the  same  away.  It 
consisted  of  30  acres,  3  bordars,  half  a  ploughteam,  wood  sufficient 
for  the  support  of  4  hogs,  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  32^.  Moreover 
the  abbot  had  here  and  in  Stuston  15  freemen  under  soc  and  commenda- 
tion, with  a  carucate  and  10  acres  of  land,  n  bordars,  3  ploughteams, 
wood  to  support  2  hogs,  and  6  acres  of  meadow.  Also  a  church  with  24 
acres,  valued  at  45.,  and  with  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  always  valued  at  2os.s 
The  last  holding  mentioned  in  this  place  belonged  to  the  fee  of  the  Bishop 
of  Thetford,  and  consisted  of  14  acres,  half  a  ploughteam,  and  half  an  acre 
of  meadow,  valued  at  2s.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  Algar,  a  freeman 
by  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds,  and  was  held  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey  by  Drogo  over  him  from  the  bishop.4 

MANOR  OF  OAKLEY  OR  Hoo  HALL,  IN  OAKLEY. 

This  was  the  estate  of  Goda,  a  freewoman  under  the  protection  of 
Stigand  the  Archbishop  in  Saxon  times,  and  of  Roger  Bigot  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey. 

In  the  reign  of  King  Edw.  I.  the  lordship  was  held  by  Goscelin  de 
Lodne,  from  whom  it  passed  to  his  fourth  daughter  and  coheir  Emma, 
married  to  Ralph  de  Hoo.  They  were  succeeded  by  their  son  and  heir, 
Reyner  de  Hoo,  and  he  by  his  son  and  heir,  William  de  Hoo,  and  he  by  his 
son  and  heir,  John,  who  held  in  1316.  In  1347  a  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor 
by  John  de  Hoo,  of  Laxfield,  and  Katherine  his  wife,  against  Roger  de 
Swathyngg,  parson  of  Northcreik  church,  and  Thomas  de  S  .  .  .5 
(Robert,  son  of  John  de  Hoo,  of  Laxfield,  app.  clam.) 

Nearly  a  hundred  years  later  the  manor  was  held  by  Robert  Bucton, 
who  died  i7th  Dec.  1408,  and  was  buried  in  the  chancel  of  the  church  of 
Oakley,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  daughter  Philippa,  married  to  Sir 
John  Cornwallis,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Cornwallis.  He  died  in  1436, 

1  Dom.  ii.  310.  *  Dom.  ii.  380. 

'  Dom.  ii.  3706.  5  Feet  of  Fines,  21  Edw.  III.  3. 

JDom.  ii.  3706. 


OAKLEY.  287 

from  which  time  the  manor  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manors  of 
Lings  Hall  and  Brome  Hall,  in  Brome,  in  this  Hundred,1  and  is  now  vested  in 
Lady  Bateman. 

Arms  of  BUCTON  :  Arg.  3  bars  gemelles  Sable,  on  a  Canton  of  the  last, 
a  crescent  of  the  field. 

MANOR  OF  BEAUCHAMPS  IN  OAKLEY  (?)  WOODHALL. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  Arnold  de  Charnels  in  the  time  of  King  John, 
and  in  1234  was  vested  in  John  de  Charnels. 

In  the  time  of  Edw.  I.  it  was  vested  like  the  main  lordship  in  Goscelin 
de  Lodne,  and  passed  to  his  eldest  daughter  and  coheir,  Alice,  married  to 
William,  son  of  Ralph  de  Beauchamp,  from  whom  this  manor  derived  its 
name. 

There  is  notice  on  the  Patent  Rolls  in  1276  of  an  action  between  Matilda 
de  Beauchamp,  Aleanora,  and  Etheldreda,  daughters  of  the  aforesaid 
Matilda,  against  John  de  Hoo,  touching  a  tenement  in  Oakley.2 

In  1299  the  manor  was  vested  in  John  de  Beauchamp  de  Fifelude,  and 
in  1319  in  Nicholas  de  Beaufoe.  There  appears  to  have  been  some  connec- 
tion between  this  manor  and  that  of  "  Broomdavillers  known  as  Beauchamp," 
granted  in  the  time  of  Rich.  II.  by  Sir  John  Heveningham  to  Bartholomew 
Bacon  and  Joan  his  wife  and  his  heirs.  Bartholomew  died  in  the  lifetime 
of  Joan  without  heirs  of  his  body,  whereupon  the  reversion  descended 
after  Joan's  death  to  Isabel,  widow  of  Sir  Oliver  Calthorp,  Bartholomew's 
sister  and  heir.  Isabel  in  Joan's  lifetime  granted  the  reversion  to  feoffees.3 

In  1519  the  manor  is  said  to  have  been  vested  in  Sir  John  Cornwallis, 
and  has  since  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  main  manor. 

Sir  Philip  Calthorp,  son  of  Sir  Philip,  who  died  in  1535,  seems  to  have 
died  seised  of  the  manor  of  "  Okeley,  in  Suffolk."  Sir  Philip,  the  son,  died 
7th  April,  1549,  leaving  Elizabeth  Parker,  widow,  and  Henry  Parker,  her 
son  and  heir.4 


'Refer  also  to  the   Manor  of  Culford,  in         3Pat.  Rolls,  14  Hen.  VI.  pt.  i.  14. 

Blackbourn  Hundred.  4 1.P.M.,  3  Edw.  VI.  148. 

'  Pat.  Rolls,  4  Edw.  I.  17. 


288  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

OCCOLD. 

Saxon  times  there  were  two  manors  in  this  place.  One 
was  held  by  a  freeman,  and  consisted  of  33  acres,  i  plough- 
team,  and  2  bordars,  and  a  freeman  held  i  acre  and  wood 
sufficient  to  support  4  hogs.  The  value  was  formerly 
ios.,  but  had  increased  to  155.  at  the  time  of  the  Survey, 
when  the  manor  belonged  to  Earl  Ralph,  being  kept  in 
hand  for  the  King  by  Goodrich  the  steward. 

The  manor  rendered  55.  as  part  of  the  above  valuation.' 

The  other  manor  was  held  by  Goodmund  from  Aluric,  his  brother, 
the  Abbot  of  Ely,  and  consisted  of  a  carucate  of  land  and  40  acres,  5  villeins, 
8  bordars,  2  serfs,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne  and  2  belonging  to  the  men, 
3  acres  of  meadow,  wood  sufficient  to  support  40  hogs,  also  a  church  with 
8  acres  of  land  and  half  a  ploughteam.  Of  live  stock  there  were  i 
rouncy,  8  beasts,  60  hogs,  40  sheep,  and  21  goats. 

The  details  of  the  manor  were  different  at  the  time  of  the  Survey, 
when  it  was  held  of  Hugh  de  Montfort  by  Roger  de  Candos.  Then 
there  were  apparently  no  serfs,  the  ploughteams  in  demesne  were  reduced 
to  i,  and  those  belonging  to  the  men  to  i£,  the  hogs  had  come  down  as  low 
as  13,  and  the  sheep  to  28. 

The  value  originally  was  6os.,  which  later  increased  to  £4,  and  at  the 
time  of  the  Survey  to  loos. 

To  this  manor  were  added  8  freemen  with  40  acres,  and  2  ploughteams 
(reduced  to  i  J  at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  and  a  church  with  12  acres,  the  free- 
men being  valued  at  ios.  The  soc  over  the  whole  belonged  to  Goodmund. 
The  manor  was  10  quarentenes  long  and  8  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  qd* 
Under  the  heading  in  the  Survey  "  Concerning  the  Claims  in  dispute  between 
the  Bishop  of  Bayeux  and  Robert  Malet's  mother,"  were  two  entries  of 
holdings  in  this  place.  The  first  was  that  of  Brictere,  a  freeman  under 
Stigand,  and  consisted  of  20  acres,  and  i  bordar,  valued  at  40^.  This  land 
Stigand  gave  to  Robert  Malet's  mother,  who  later  held  it  of  the  Queen. 
"  Now  it  is  .  .  .  Thus  the  Survey. 

The  second  was  that  of  Cheric,  a  freeman  half  under  sub-commendation 
to  the  predecessor  of  Robert  Malet  and  half  under  commendation  to  Sachs, 
the  predecessor  of  Ralph,  the  little  piper.  It  consisted  of  20  acres,  2  bordars, 
and  i  ploughteam  valued  at  40^. 3  Amongst  the  estates  of  Robert  Malet 
was  one  consisting  of  46  acres,  2  ploughteams  (reduced  to  ij  at  the  time  of 
the  Survey),  wood  to  support  6  hogs,  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  ios. 
It  was  held  formerly  by  5  freemen  under  commendation  to  Edric,  and  in 
his  soc — Siward,  Raven,  Pinstan,  Goodrich,  Lefsi,  and  Alveva.  Robert 
Malet's  mother  held  it  over  them.  Another  estate  of  Robert  Malet  was  50 
acres,  formerly  held  by  7  freemen  under  commendation  to  Ulveva.  There 
belonged  to  this  estate  2  ploughteams  (reduced  to  i£  at  the  time  of  the 
Survey),  and  i  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  95.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King 
and  Earl.4 

Belonging  to  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  were  3  acres  in 
demesne  in  this  place.3  Ralph  de  Limesialso  held  here  one  freeman  under 
commendation  having  8  acres,  valued  at  i6d.  It  was  held  by  Ralph  in 
demesne,  and  the  King  and  the  Earl  had  the  soc.  He  also  held  2  acres, 

1  Dom.  ii.  2856.  «Dom.  ii.  320,  323. 

1  Dom.  ii.  4106.  i  Dom.  ii.  371. 

1  Dom.  ii.  450. 


OCCOLD.  289 

valued  at  4^.,  which  had  formerly  been  held  by  a  freeman  under  commenda- 
tion to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds.  The  King  and  the  Earl  also  had  the 
soc  of  this.1 

MANOR  OF  OCCOLD  OR  OCCOLD  HALL. 

This  manor  seems  to  have  been  given  to  the  Prior  of  Ely  in  Saxon 
times,  but  was  usurped  by  Hugh  de  Montfort  in  the  time  of  the  Conqueror, 
and  Roger  de  Candos  held  it  of  him.  It  was  one  of  the  18  lordships,  which 
were  granted  to  William,  Earl  Warren  and  Surrey,  in  the  county  of  Suffolk. 
He  gave  it  to  the  monastery  of  Eye,  and  William,  his  grandson,  confirmed 
it  to  them  in  King  Stephen's  reign.  It  was  certainly  with  the  priory  in  the 
time  of  Edw.  IT.,  for  the  Ministers'  Accounts  of  the  manor  as  held  by  the 
priory  for  18  Edw.  II.  are  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office.*  With 
the  priory  of  Eye  the  lordship  remained  until  the  Dissolution,  when  it 
vested  in  the  Crown,  and  was  granted  by  Henry  VIII.  to  Charles  Brandon, 
Duke  of  Suffolk,  in  1536. 

Shortly  afterwards  he  exchanged  it  with  the  King  for  other  manors,3 
and  it  was  in  1540  granted  to  Anne  of  Cleves  for  life.4  About  1557  the 
manor  was  granted  to  Nicholas  Cutler,  for  we  find  amongst  the  Harleian 
MSS.  in  the  British  Museum  the  rating  of  the  manor  dated  I5th  Dec. 
1557,  previous  to,  and  in  view  of  the  grant.5  From  Nicholas  Cutler,  who 
died  in  1568,  the  manor  passed  to  Charles  Cutler,  who  in  1570  was  called 
upon  to  show  by  what  title  he  held.6 

Charles  Cutler  died  in  1581,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  two  daughters 
and  coheirs,  Eleanor  and  Mary,  from  whom  it  went  to  their  uncle,  Henry 
Cutler,  against  whom  a  fine  was  levied  in  1593  by  Johanna  Blosse,  widow, 
and  others.7 

Nicholas  Marshall  held  in  the  time  of  James  I.,  and  died  in  1621, 
when  the  manor  passed  to  his  daughter  and  heir  Mary. 

In  1764  the  manor  was  vested  in  Mileson  Edgar,8  who  by  will  dated 
2nd  March,  1770,  devised  it  to  his  2nd  son,  John  Edgar,  who  was  living  in 
1837.  The  manor  was  offered  for  sale,  25th  Jan.  1785,  with  the  farm 
called  Occold  Hall,  containing  230  (later  stated  to  be  241)  acres.  The 
fines  received  during  the  previous  30  years  had  averaged  £6.  45.,  and  the 
quit  rents  £4.  us.  3%d.9 

The  manor  subsequently  passed  to  the  Rev.  Benedict  Chapman,  and 
from  1855  to  1896  was  vested  in  the  Rev.  Charles  Chapman.  The  manor  is 
now  vested  in  the  trustees  of  the  last-named  gentleman,  who  was  vicar  of 
Church  Coniston,  in  Lancashire. 

A  commission  was  issued  in  1615  touching  the  temporal  and  spiritual 
possessions  of  the  manor.10 

Arms  of  CUTLER  :  Azure,  three  lions'  heads  erased,  Or.  Of  EDGAR  : 
See  Burwash  Manor,  Witnesham,  in  Carlford  Hundred. 

MANOR  OF  BEDINGHAM  OR  BENNINGHAM. 

This  lordship  belonged  to  William  the  Conqueror,  and  in  the  time  of 
Hen.  II.  was  held  by  Philip  de  Columbers,  from  whom  it  passed  to  Mitada, 

'Dom.  ii.  429.  7Fine,  Mich.  35-36  Eliz. 

'Bundle  1127,  No.  4.  8See  Manor  of   Burwash,  Witnesham,  in 

s  S.P.  30  Hen.  VIII.  1538,  ii.  1182  (i8a).  Carlford  Hundred. 

«S.P.  1540-1,  p.  1500.  9  Ipswich  Journal,  28th  May,  1785. 

5Harl.  607.  I0  Memoranda,  13  Jac.  I.  Trin.  Rec.  Rot. 

"Memoranda  Rolls,   12  Eliz.  Trin.   Rec.                   279. 
Rot.  33. 

N  I 


290  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

his  widow,  daughter  and  heir  of  Walter  de  Candos,  of  Stowey,  and  grand- 
daughter of  Robert  de  Candos.1 

In  1232  Philip,  son  and  heir  of  Philip  de  Columbers,  succeeded,  and 
died  in  1261,  when  the  manor  passed  to  Sir  Philip  de  Columbers,  his  son 
and  heir. 

The  Testa  de  Nevill  informs  us  that  he  held  half  a  knight's  fee  here  of 
the  Honor  of  Haughley.1 

He  enfeoffed  in  1275  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  John's,  Colchester, 
in  which  abbey  the  lordship  remained  until  the  dissolution  of  the  religious 
houses,  when  it  passed  to  the  Crown. 

In  1545  the  manor  was  granted  by  the  Crown  to  John  Kene,  who  had 
licence  to  alien  to  Thomas  Cornwallis  and  John  Smart  in  1550.  This  was 
a  licence,  no  doubt,  obtained  with  the  object  of  effecting  a  settlement, 
and  in  1564  John  Kene  and  his  wife  sold  to  George  Chything,3  and  George 
Chything  and  his  wife  Judith  had  in  1574  licence  to  alien  the  manor  to 
Charles  Cutler,  of  Eye,  who  this  year  levied  a  fine  against  George  Chitting, 
under  which  it  passed.4  Charles  Cutler  died  in  1581,  when  the  manor 
passed  to  Eleanor  and  Mary,  his  daughters  and  coheirs,  and  shortly  after- 
wards was  vested  in  Henry  Cutler,  their  uncle,  who  had  licence  in  1586  to 
alien  two  parts  of  the  manor  to  William  Appleton  and  John  Appleton. 
Possibly  the  remaining  third  was  vested  in  Susan  Cutler  and  others  for  they 
had  licence  to  alien  in  1601  to  John  Dusset,  who  duly  levied  a  fine  in  1602, 
under  which  the  manor  passed  to  him.3 

John  Bade,  Mary  Brooke,  widow,  Mary  Warner,  widow,  and  Mary 
Wately,  widow,  had  licence  to  alien  the  manor  in  1691  to  William  Stebbing 
and  Henry  Stebbing.  By  indenture  dated  I5th  June,  1700,  and  made 
between  Lisle  Hackett,  of  Moxhull,  co.  Warwick,  of  the  one  part,  and  John 
Hackett,  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge,  clerk,  youngest  son  of  Sir  Andrew 
Hackett,  of  Moxhull,  Knt.,  and  brother  of  the  said  Lisle  Hackett,  this  manor 
was  released. 

In  1764  the  manor  was  vested  in  the  Malyn  family,  and  in  1855  in  Miss 
Howman,  and  is  now  in  Mrs.  Burrows. 


There  appears  to  be  also  a  rectory  manor,  which  in  1829  was  stated 
to  be  vested  in  the  Rev.  John  Ward. 


'See  Banks 'sBaroniaAnglicaConcentrata,         3Fine,  Mich.  6  Eliz. 

vol.  i.  162.  4  Fine,  Hil.  15  Eliz. 

•T.  de  N.  290.  J  Fine,  Hil.  44  Eliz. 


PALGRAVE.  291 

PALGRAVE. 

[HERE  was  one  manor  in  this  place  in  Saxon  times  belonging 
to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds.  It  consisted  of  4  carucates 
of  land,  9  villeins,  17  bordars,  3  serfs  (reduced  to  i  at  the 
time  of  the  Survey),  i  ploughteam  in  demesne,  and  4 
belonging  to  the  men,  and  6  acres  of  meadow.  Also  two 
churches  with  30  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam.  Of  live 
stock  there  were  2  rouncies,  12  beasts,  6  hogs,  and  8  sheep, 
valued  at  £6,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  at  £8.  The  soc  belonged  to 
the  abbot.  In  the  same  township  were  2  carucates  of  land  less  12  acres, 
8  ploughteams,  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  405.,  the  soc  and  commen- 
dation being  the  abbot's.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  29  freemen.  It 
was  a  league  long  and  half  a  league  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  12^.' 

MANOR  OF  PALGRAVE. 

The  third  part  of  this  lordship  was  granted  by  Athulf  (Adulf  or  Eadulf), 
Bishop  of  Elmham,  to  the  abbot  and  monks  of  St.  Edmunds,  and  the  residue 
thereof  was  given  by  Earl  Wolfstan  and  others  in  962  to  the  abbey.  Peter 
de  Burgate  held  the  lordship  probably  under  the  abbot.  The  manor 
remained  with  the  abbey  until  the  dissolution  of  the  religious  houses,  when 
it  passed  to  the  Crown,  and  was  granted  in  1554  to  Sir  Thomas  Cornwallis 
and  Anne  his  wife.  The  grant  was  in  tail  male/  and  the  lordship  in  1604 
passed  to  their  son  and  heir,  Sir  William  Cornwallis,  who  died  in  1613, 
and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Frederick  Cornwallis,  created 
Lord  Cornwallis,  from  whom  the  manor  has  descended  in  the  same  course 
as  the  manor  of  Brome  Hall,  in  this  Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  Lady 
Bateman,  of  Brome  Hall. 

Compotus  of  the  manor  1348-49  will  be  found  amongst  the  Additional 
Charters  in  the  British  Museum,3  and  an  extent  and  customary  of  the  lands 
of  the  monastery  of  St.  Edmunds,  in  Palgrave,  in  1357  will  be  found  amongst 
the  Additional  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum.4 

MANOR  OF  FENHOUSE. 

This  manor  was  also  given  by  Earl  Wolfstan  to  the  abbey  of  St. 
Edmunds  in  962,  and  remained  with  that  house  until  the  Dissolution,  when 
it  vested  in  the  Crown. 

In  1762  we  find  the  manor  in  Charles,  2nd  Earl  Cornwallis,  created 
Marquis,  and  on  his  death  in  1805  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Charles, 
2nd  Marquis,  from  which  time  it  has  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the 
main  Manor  of  Palgrave. 


•Dom.  ii.  361.  -»Add.  Ch.  32934. 

•  i  and  2  Ph.  and  M.  8  Rep.  Hist.  Com.         *  Add.  14849. 
277. 


THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 


REDGRA VE. 

HERE  was  one  manor  here  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor,  held 
by  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds.  It  consisted  of  6  canicates 
of  land,  10  villeins,  19  bordars,  8  serfs  (reduced  to  6  at 
the  time  of  the  Survey),  4  ploughteams  in  demesne  and 
6  belonging  to  the  men,  8  acres  of  meadow,  and  wood  suffi- 
cient to  support  1 20  hogs.  Also  a  church  with  30  acres 
of  free  land  and  half  a  ploughteam.  Of  live  stock  there 
were  2  rouncies,  12  beasts,  30  hogs,  60  sheep,  and  30  goats,  the  value  of  the 
whole  being  £10.  In  the  same  township  were  80  acres  under  the  soc  and 
commendation  of  the  abbot,  and  eight  ploughteams,  valued  at  305.  It  was 
a  league  long  and  half  a  league  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  Sd. 

It  was  formerly  held  by  twenty-four  freemen,  and  at  the  time  of  the 
Survey  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  held  over  them  in  demesne.1 

MANOR  OF  REDGRAVE. 

This  lordship  with  the  patronage  of  the  rectory  was  anciently  vested 
in  the  abbot  and  monastery  of  St.  Edmunds  by  the  grant  of  Ulfketel, 
Earl  of  the  East  Angles,  who  fell  in  1016  at  the  battle  of  Assendun,  in  Essex, 
with  Canute  the  Dane.  In  1211  Sampson,  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds,  erected 
a  mansion  here  which  became  the  occasional  residence  of  the  future  prelates 
of  that  house.  The  abbey  had  a  grant  of  a  fair  and  market  here  in  1227." 
Rentals,  &c.,  of  the  manor  extracted  from  the  registers  of  Abbot  Thomas 
[de  Totingtone]  and  John  Norwolde  [1279-1312],  17  Edw.  I.  [1288],  and 
12  Hen.  VI.  [1433],  will  be  found  amongst  the  MSS.  in  the  British 
Museum,3  as  wUl  also  be  found  an  extent  and  customary  of  the  lands  of 
the  abbey  in  Redgrave,  in  1357. 4  Page  says  that  after  the  Dissolution  the 
manor  was  granted  by  Hen.  VIII.,  in  the  last  year  of  his  reign,  to  Sir  Thomas 
D'Arcy,  Knt.,  from  whom  it  passed  to  the  Bacon  family.  This  does  not 
seem  to  be  correct.  The  manor  was  granted  directly  from  the  Crown  in 
1544  to  Nicholas  Bacon,  Lord  Keeper  of  the  Great  Seal  of  England,  and  the 
same  year  we  find  livery  of  Redgrave  Park  given  in  exchange  by  Sir  Nicholas 
Bacon  to  the  King.5 

Particulars  for  this  grant  in  exchange  are  still  in  existence,  and  may  be 
seen  in  the  Public  Record  Office.6  A  book  of  receipts  of  money  for  tithes 
due  from  this  and  Wortham  Manor,  belonging  to  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon, 
and  others  to  Sir  Edmund  Bacon,  1592-1632,  wUl  be  found  mentioned  in 
the  i3th  Rep.  of  the  Hist.  Com.  pt.  iv.  p.  420.  From  this  time  the  manor 
devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Hinderclay,  in  Blackbourn 
Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  George  Holt  Wilson.7  By  letters  patent, 
dated  28th  July,  3rd  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  licence  was  granted  to 
Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  Knt.,  Lord  Keeper,  to  erect  a  grammar  school  in 
Redgrave,  for  instructing  boys  living  there  and  in  the  neighbourhood  in 
grammar,  and  by  indenture,  dated  the  igth  of  the  same  reign,  Sir  N.  Bacon 


1  Dom.  ii.  3606. 

•  Chart.   Rolls,   n   Hen.   III.   pt.   i.   n ; 

Close  Rolls,  ii  Hen.  III.  13. 
'Add.  14850. 
4  Add.  14849. 

'36  Hen.  VIII.  D.K.R.  9  App.  ii.  p.  162. 
•36  Hen.  VIII.  D.K.R.  9  App.  ii.  p.  162. 
7  For  descent  of  the  Wilson  family,  see 
Burke  L.G.    In  1734  the  bodies  of 


the  Bacons  buried  in  the  chancel 
of  All  Saints'  Church,  in  Garboldis- 
ham  (then  taken  down),  were  taken 
up,  and  carried  to  a  vault  belonging 
to  the  family  in  Redgrave  Church, 
but  the  marbles  which  lay  over 
them  were  removed  and  placed  in  the 
vestry  of  St.  John's  Church,  in 
Garboldisham. 


REDGRAVE.  293 

assured  the  Manors  of  Stody  and  Burningham,  in  Norfolk,  for  the  payment, 
among  other  things,  of  £20  a  year  for  the  schoolmaster's  salary,  and  £8  a 
year  for  the  usher's  salary,  and  405.  to  the  governors  for  repairs  of  the  school- 
house  and  premises.  The  other  possessions  of  the  school  consist  of  a 
dwelling-house  in  Botesdale,  contiguous  to  and  under  the  same  roof 
with  a  building  there  used  as  a  chapel ;  and  a  cottage  in  Botesdale,  let  by 
the  master  of  the  school  at  £3.  35.  a  year. 

Abstracts  of  the  customs,  &c.,  of  this  manor,  i6th  cent,  will  be  found 
amongst  the  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum,1  and  an  exemplification  of  a 
record  as  to  divers  liberties  in  the  manor  on  the  Memoranda  Rolls  in  1559.* 

Redgrave  hall  was  rebuilt  about  1770  by  Rowland  Holt,  who  also 
embellished  the  park,  at  an  expense  of  £30,000,  in  a  manner  so  as  to  render 
it  one  of  the  most  charming  spots  in  the  county. 

The  mansion  is  a  spacious,  handsome  structure  built  of  Woolpit  brick, 
and  the  centre,  which  projects,  is  adorned  with  a  pediment  supported  by 
four  Ionic  columns.  The  park  is  magnificently  wooded  and  is  adorned  with 
a  fine  piece  of  water  in  front  of  the  house. 

It  is  said  that  the  custom  of  gavelkind,  under  which  the  lands  of  the 
father  are  equally  divided  at  his  death  amongst  his  sons,  or  the  land  of  one 
brother  among  all  his  brothers  if  he  have  no  issue  of  his  own,  prevails  in 
this  manor. 


1  Add.  31970.  '  I  Eliz.  Pas.  Rec.  Rot.  56. 


294  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

REDLINGFIELD. 

|HERE  was  one  manor  in  this  place  in  Saxon  times,  held  by 
Aluric,  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Edric.  It  con- 
sisted of  3  carucates  of  land,  n  villeins,  4  bordars,  2  serfs,  2 
ploughteams  in  demesne  and  2  belonging  to  the  men,  wood 
sufficient  to  support  100  hogs,  6  acres  of  meadow,  and 
a  church  with  12  acres.  Also  i  rouncy,  12  hogs,  24  sheep, 
and  34  goats,  the  whole  valued  at  6os. 
At  the  time  of  the  Survey  this  manor  was  held  by  William  de  Archis 
of  Robert  Malet,  and  the  details  were  different.  The  serfs  had  disappeared, 
the  ploughteams  in  demesne  were  increased  to  3,  the  wood  was  sufficient 
for  50  hogs  only,  and  the  rouncy  was  not  mentioned.  The  value  then  had 
increased  to  loos.  The  soc  belonged  to  the  King  and  Earl.  The  place 
was  7  quarentenes  broad  and  7  long,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  6d.' 

MANOR  OF  REDLINGFIELD. 

In  the  year  1120  Manasses  de  Gratia,  Earl  of  Ghisness  (or  Guisnes)  and 
Emma  his  wife,  daughter  of  William  de  Arras,  built  here,  upon  a  lordship 
belonging  to  the  said  William,  a  Benedictine  nunnery,  which  was  endowed 
with  portions  of  the  churches  of  Milton,  Walpole,  Levington,  Redlingfield 
and  Rishangles,  with  the  manors  of  the  last  two  named  places,  and  lands 
and  tithes  in  about  30  other  parishes. 

The  site  of  the  monastery  contained  about  2  acres,  120  acres  of  pasture, 
valued  at  i6d.  per  acre,  148  acres  of  arable  land  at  I2d.  per  acre,  and  18  acres 
of  meadow  at  2s.  per  acre  in  the  parish,  in  the  occupation  of  the  priors, 
288  acres  valued  in  all  at  £17.  55.  The  clear  value,  according  to  Speed,  of 
their  gross  revenues  was  £81.  2s.  5^.,  and  "  Valor  Ecclesiasticus  "  gives 
the  same  figures  as  to  yearly  value,  being  less  than  £200."  From  the  Quo 
Warranto  Rolls  we  learn  that  the  prioress  claimed  view  of  frankpledge  and 
assize  of  bread  and  beer  here.3 

On  the  Dissolution  the  manor  devolved  on  the  Crown,  and  was  in 
1536  granted  by  Hen.  VIII.  to  Edmund  Bedingfield.  The  grant  was  in 
fee  to  Sir  Edmund  Bedingfield  and  Grace  his  wife,  who  was  a  daughter  of 
Henry,  Lord  Larney.and  particulars  will  be  found  among  the  State  Papers 
for  1537. *  Amongst  the  ancient  deeds  of  the  Treasury  of  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer  in  the  P.R.O.  is  an  appointment  by  Edmund  Bedingfield  of 
Richard  Hoo,  as  auditor  and  steward  of  all  his  lands,  &c.,  in  Norfolk  and 
Suffolk,  for  Richard's  life,  with  a  further  grant  to  him  of  a  yearly  rent  out 
of  this  manor.5  In  1539  the  manor  is  said  to  have  been  vested  in  Robert 
Bedingfield,  clerk,  brother  of  Sir  Edmund,  and  he  had  licence  to  alien  the 
same  to  his  nephew,  Sir  Henry  Bedingfield.  He  married  Catherine  Towns- 
hend,  and  had  licence  to  alien  the  manor  to  his  grandson,  Thomas  Beding- 
field.* Thomas  was  the  son  of  Edmund  and  of  Anne  his  ist  wife,  daughter 
of  Sir  Robert  Southwell,  of  Hoxne,  which  Edmund  died  in  1585.  Thomas 
married  gth  Oct.  1588,  Frances,  daughter  and  coheir  of  John  Jernegan,  of 
Somerleyton,  and  died  Qth  April,  1590. 

'Dom.  ii.  320.  JQ-W.  724. 

'State  Papers,  1536,  p.  1238;  and  for  the  «S.P.  i.  795  (39). 

inventory    on    suppression,    State  5  29  Hen.  VIII.  A.  5339. 

Papers,   1536,  viii.    95;    and    for  "See  Hesteley  Manor,  Thorndon,  in   this 

"  Book    of    Sale  "    State  Papers,  Hundred,  and  Bedingfield,  in  Hoxne 

*537.  >•  510.  Hundred. 


REDLINGFIELD.  295 

In  1609  the  manor  is  stated  to  have  been  vested  in  another  Thomas 
Bedingfield,  possibly  the  last  Thomas's  grandson,  and  later  in  John 
Bedingfield,  who  died  seised  of  it  before  1626,  for  this  year  livery  of  the 
manor  was  made  to  his  son,  Thomas  Bedingfield.1 

In  1636  a  fine  of  the  manor  was  levied  by  Francis  Bedingfield.2 

In  1764  the  manor  was  vested  in  John  Willis,  by  purchase  from  the 
Bedingfields,  and  later  it  was  acquired  by  William  Adair,  who  died  in  1787, 
when  the  manor  passed  by  devise  under  his  will  to  his  cousin  Alexander 
Adair,  from  whom  it  passed  in  the  same  course  of  descent  as  the  Manor  of 
Cratfield  Le  Ros,  in  Blything  Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  Sir  Frederick 
Edward  Shafto  Adair,  4th  Bart.,  of  Flixton  Hall,  Bungay. 


'  Chancery  1636,  D.K.R.  48  App.  p.  556.  » igth  May,  12  Chas.  I.  pt.  i.  40. 


296  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

RICKINGHA  LL-SUPERIOR. 

I  MONO  the  lands  of  Robert  Malet  was  an  estate  in  this 
place,  consisting  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  of  a  carucate 
of  land  and  30  acres,  I  villein,  3  bordars,  i  serf,  2  ploughteams 
in  demesne  and  half  a  ploughteam  belonging  to  the  men, 
wood  sufficient  to  support  8  hogs,  and  2  acres  of  meadow. 
Of  live  stock  there  were  4  rouncies,  6  beasts,  20  hogs,  60 
sheep,  and  16  goats.  The  value  was  20$.,  and  at  the  time  of 
the  Survey  had  increased  to  6os.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  Earl.  It 
had  formerly  been  held  by  Britfleda,  a  freewoman  under  Edric  of  Laxfield. 
In  the  same  township  were  5^  acres,  valued  at  i2d.,  formerly  held  by  2 
freemen  under  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds,  and  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey  held  by  Hubert  of  Robert  Malet.1  Among  the  lands  of  the 
Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  was  an  estate  here  consisting  of  80  acres,  3  plough- 
teams,  2  acres  of  meadow,  and  the  fifth  part  of  a  church  with  5  acres,  the 
whole  valued  at  2OS.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  14  freemen  under  the 
soc  and  commendation  of  the  abbot.2  The  Survey  also  mentions  a  holding 
here  without  land — a  freeman,  Brictmar,  being  held  by  Aubrey  de  Vere.3 

MANOR  OF  FACON'S  HALL. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  the  Talbots  of  Hintlesham  in  the  I3th  century, 
and  was  held  by  Talbot,  son  of  William  Talbot,  of  Hintlesham,4  in  1284. 
We  find  mention  of  an  action  on  the  Patent  Rolls  in  1272  between  Henry 
Talebet  and  Hugh  Fitz-John  and  Adam  del  Hog,  touching  a  tenement  in  this 
place.5  A  fine  was  levied  of  this  manor  this  year  between  Talbot,  son  of 
William  Talbot,  and  John  Crowe  and  Sarah  his  wife.6  Talbot  died  in 
1285,  and  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Fitz  Talbot, 
and  on  his  death  in  I3057  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas 
Fitz  Talbot,  who  died  in  1314,"  and  there  is  an  order  to  the  Escheator 
on  the  Close  Rolls  this  year  not  to  meddle  with  the  manor  and 
advowson,  but  to  deliver  to  Joan,  late  wife  of  Thomas  Fitz  Talbot,  as 
they  were  jointly  enfeoffed,  and  the  manor  was  held  of  John  le  Burser  by 
knight's  service.9  Thomas's  son  and  heir,  Peter  Talbot'0  presented  to  the 
living  in  1361,  and  died  about  1377,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Edmund  Talbot.  Edmund  Talbot,  then  of  Hintlesham,  enfeoffed 
Robert  de  Boxford  and  others  of  the  manor  in  1379." 

Amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum  we  find  articles 
of  agreement  made  8th  Jan.  16  Hen.  VII.  [1501]  in  the  presence  of  John 
de  Vere,  Earl  of  "  Oxenforde,"  between  Sir  James  Tyrelle,  Knt.,  and  Thomas 
Lucas  respecting  this  manor  and  the  advowson  and  lands  in  Over 
Rikkingalle,  Nether  Rikkingale,  and  Bottisdale."  Peter  Talbot's  widow 
Maud  was  buried  in  the  church  of  the  Friars  Preachers,  Thetford.  He  left 
a  son  Edmund,  who  was  30  years  of  age  at  his  father's  death,  and  a  daughter 
Thomasine,  married  to  John  Hadley,  of  London,  who  held  the  Manor  of 
Hintlesham,  but  died  without  male  issue,  leaving  two  daughters  and 

'Dom.  ii.  3096.  »I.P.M.,  8  Edw.  II.  50. 

•Dom.  ii.  361.  'Close  Rolls,  8  Edw.  II.  28. 

' Dom.  ii.  419.  '"See  Manor  of  Crow's  Hall,  Debenham, 

'See    Hintlesham    Manor,  in    Samfc:  '                        in  Thredling  Hundred,  and  Hintle- 

Hundred.  sham  Manor,  in  Samford  Hundred. 

'  Pat.  Rolls,  I  Edw.  I.  10  » I.P.M.,  3  Rich.  II.  97. 

•Feet  of  Fines,  12  Edw.  I.  20.  "Add.  Ch.  16570,  16571. 
M.P.M.,  34  Edw.  I.  210. 


RICKINGHALL-SUPERIOR.  297 

coheirs — Joane,  married  to  Sir  William  Peche,Knt., father  of  Sir  JohnPeche, 
who  subsequently  had  the  Manor  of  Hintlesham ;  and  Katherine,  married 
ist  to  William  Wingfield,  of  Dennington,  and  2ndly  to  Sir  William  Wolfe, 
Knt.,  but  died  without  issue  in  1445-6. 

Of  the  manor  Anthony  Yaxley1  died  seised  in  1568-9,  when  it  passed  to 
his  grandson  William,  son  of  Richard,  son  of  Anthony  Yaxley.  A  fine  was 
levied  in  1583  by  William  Danyell  against  this  William  Yaxley  and  others/ 
but  William  Yaxley  died  seised  in  1588,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Henry  Yaxley,  against  whom  a  fine  was  in  1597  levied  by  Thomas 
Bedyngfeild  and  others.3 

In  1609  the  manor  was  acquired  by  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  ist  Bart.,  who 
died  in  1624,  and  from  this  time  the  manor  has  devolved  in  the  same  course 
as  the  Manor  of  Redgrave,  in  this  Hundred,  and  Hinderclay,  in  Blackbourn 
Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  George  Holt  Wilson. 

Facon  Hall  is  now  a  farmhouse. 

MANOR  OF  ST.  JOHN'S  OR  FITZ  JOHN'S. 

This  was  in  ancient  times  held  by  John  Fitz  John,  and  in  1428  we  find 
that  it  vested  in  the  Bishop  of  Chichester,  who  held  what  was  "  late  John 
Fitz  John's." 

The  manor  was  in  1526  vested  in  Henry  Daunce  for  he  died  seised  of  it 
5th  June  this  year."  His  next  heir  was  unknown.  A  little  later  the  manor 
was  vested  in  Richard  Yaxley,  who  died  seised  of  it  4th  May,  1556,  when  it 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  William  Yaxley,  who  levied  a  fine  of  the  manor 
6th  May,  1567.'  It  is  however  asserted  that  in  1566  the  manor  was 
acquired  by  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  Lord  Keeper,  from  which  time  it  has 
devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  main  manor,  and  is  now  vested  in 
George  Holt  Wilson,  of  Redgrave. 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  is  an  action  by  Robert  Foster 
against  Humphrey  and  Henry  Hewlett,  to  complete  title  by  purchase 
respecting  land  held  of  the  manor  of  Fitz  James  (?  Fitz  John's),  sold  by 
defendant  to  John  Foster,  plaintiff's  late  father,6  and  another  action  being 
a  claim  under  a  will  by  George  Foster  against  Ann  Foster,  widow,  and 
others,  to  lands  held  of  the  manor  of  Fitz- Johns,  "  late  the  estate  of  John 
Foster,  plaintiff's  father.'" 

MANOR  OF  CROWE'S  HALL. 

In  1275  this  was  the  lordship  of  John  Crowe  and  Mary  his  wife,  who 
claimed  view  of  frankpledge  and  assize  of  bread  and  beer  here  that  year.8 
In  1428  the  manor  was  vested  in  Thomas  Harvey,  after  which  we  learn 
nothing  respecting  it. 


1  See  Yaxley  Manor,  in  this  Hundred.  5  Fine,  9  Eliz.  24. 

2  Fine,  Easter,  25  Eliz.  6C.P.  i.  296. 

3  Fine,  Mich.  39-40  Eliz.  ?C.P.  i.  324. 
'I.P.M.,  21  Hen.  VIII.  96.  »Q.W.  732. 

01 


298  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

RISH ANGLES. 

[HERE  was  a  manor  in  this  place  in  Saxon  times  held  by 
Ulveva  under  commendation  to  Stigand.  It  consisted  of 
220  acres,  3  villeins,  7  bordars,  3  serfs,  3  ploughteams  in 
demesne  and  2  belonging  to  the  men,  4  acres  of  meadow, 
and  wood  sufficient  to  support  240  hogs  ;  also  a  church  with 
20  acres  and  a  ploughteam.  Of  live  stock  there  were  2 
rouncies,  7  beasts,  and  30  goats,  valued  at  505.  At  the  time 
of  the  Survey  this  manor  was  held  by  Robert  Malet,  and  the  details  were 
altered  ;  the  serfs  were  reduced  to  two,  there  was  wood  to  support  120  hogs 
only,  and  there  were  7  hogs.  The  value  had  increased  to  6os.  Ulveva 
had  the  soc  of  Stigand. 

In  the  same  township,  also  part  of  the  estate  of  Robert  Malet,  were  40 
acres  formerly  held  by  four  freemen  under  commendation  to  Ulveva.  There 
were  2  ploughteams,  i  acre  of  meadow,  and  wood  sufficient  for  6  hogs, 
valued  at  6s.  8d.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  Earl.  It  was  14 
quarentenes  long  and  10  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  gd.' 

MANOR  OF  RISHANGLES. 

In  the  time  of  Hen.  I.  Sir  Robert  Sackville  held  the  manor  of  the  Honor 
of  Eye.1  Later  it  passed  to  Bryan  de  Hickling,  and  a  fine  was  levied 
of  the  manor  in  1302  between  Peter  de  Malteby,  parson  of  Rishangles 
church,  and  this  Brian  de  Hickling.3  In  1316  the  manor  was  held  by 
Brian's  son  and  heir,  Thomas  de  Hickling,  and  Dionysia  his  wife.  He  died 
in  1323,*  and  from  the  Close  Rolls  this  year  we  learn  that  the  great  chamber 
at  the  head  of  the  hall,  with  the  moat  on  the  east,  and  the  kitchen  within 
the  moat,  and  the  chapel  between  the  moat,  &c.,  and  many  acres  part  of 
the  manor  were  assigned  in  dower  to  Dionysia,  his  widow.5  The  manor, 
subject  to  Dionysia' s  interest,  passed  to  Thomas'  son  and  heir,  Bryan 
de  Hickling,  and  in  1368  Reginald  de  Eccles  and  Richard  de  Waterden 
released  to  Sir  Edward  de  Berkley  and  his  heirs  all  their  right  in  this  lordship, 
with  the  third  part  of  the  Manor  of  Netherhall,  at  Hickling,  in  Norfolk. 
The  releasors  were  probably  trustees  for  Sir  Edward  de  Berkley,  who  was 
entitled  for  life  in  right  of  his  wife,  Joan,  daughter  and  heir  of  Brian  de 
Hickling.  Joan  died  without  issue,  and  Sir  Edward  died  in  1380. 

The  manor  and  advowson  subsequently  became  vested  in  Redlingfield 
nunnery;  the  licence  for  alienation  in  mortmain  of  the  manor  to  Sir  William 
de  Kerdeston  will  be  found  in  the  Patent  Rolls  in  1380.'  That  it  was  a 
third  part  only  granted  by  Sir  William  de  Kerdeston  is  clear  from  the 
Escheat  Rolls.7  The  remaining  two  parts  were  vested  in  Roger  Assheford, 
Roger  Wblfreston,  and  Henry  Sergeant,  and  were  held  of  Queen  Anne  as  of 
the  Honor  of  Eye,  as  we  learn  from  a  licence  to  the  grantors  to  alienate  in 
mortmain  to  be  found  on  the  Patent  Rolls  in  1390." 

The  manor  went  to  the  Crown  on  the  suppression  of  the  religious 
houses,  and  in  1540  was  granted  by  the  Court  of  Augmentations  to  William 

«  Dom.  ii.  323.  i  Close  Rolls,  16  Edw.  II.  qd. 

'  See    Old    Hall,    Braiseworth,    in    this  « Pat.  Rolls,  4  Rich.  II.  pt.  ii.  27. 

Hundred.  ?I.P.M.,  4  Rich.  II.  117. 

»Feet  of  Fines,  30  Edw.  I.  7.  »Pat.  Rolls,  14  Rich.  II.  pt.  ii.46;  I.P.M., 
«  Extent   as   of    Eye    Honor;   I. P.M.,   16  14  Rich.  II.  90. 

Edw.  II.  55. 


RISHANGLES.  299 

Tyrrell.1  In  1543,  however,  Robert  Chichester  and  Agnes  Philipp  had  a 
grant  for  their  lives,  and  the  life  of  the  longer  liver  ;  and  in  1557  William 
Honing  and  Nicholas  Cutler  had  a  grant  of  the  reversion.2  However,  the 
same  year  a  grant  was  made  of  the  manor  on  its  purchase  to  Edward 
Grimston.3  He  married  for  his  2nd  wife  Mary,  daughter  of  William  Drury, 
of  Rougham,  by  whom  he  had  issue  four  sons  and  three  daughters,  by  the 
eldest  of  whom,  Edward  Grimston,  he  was  succeeded.  Edward  Grimston, 
the  son,  died  I7th  March,  1599,  and  was  interred  in  the  parish  church  of 
Rishangles,  where  we  find  the  following  lines  below  his  arms  : — 

"  By  twice  two  Kings  and  Queenes  his  life  was  gract, 
Yet  one  Relligion  had  from  first  to  last. 
Justice  and  Truth  he  lov'd,  and  common  good 
No  lesse  then  th'issve  of  his  privat  bloode. 
His  yeares  more  then  himselfe  did  others  please 
For  covncell  and  discovrse  of  warre  and  peace. 
His  life  was  rvlet  to  lives,  his  death  a  mirror, 
One  felt  noe  vaine  care,  nor  the  other  terror." 

The  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edward  Grimston,  who  married 
Joan,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Thomas  Risby,  of  Lavenham,  granddaughter 
maternally  of  John  Harbottle,  of  Crowfield,and  inherited  in  her  right  the 
Bradfield  estate,  when  he  removed  thither.  He  was  M.P.  for  the  Borough 
of  Eye  in  the  3ist  of  Elizabeth,  and  died  i6th  August,  i6io.4 

The  lines  to  his  memory  at  Rishangles  are  : — 

'  The  Sonne  paied  to  his  father's  part  increase, 
Wittie  and  wise  he  was,  vs'd  la  we  for  peace, 
What  first  he  chvs'd  for  good  he  changed  never 
His  care  was  temperate,  his  zeale  fervent  ever. 
And  theise  fayer  gifts  yt.  heare  his  power  did  give 
Did  make  the  father  in  the  sonne  to  lyve 
What  truth  hath  writt  that  envie  cannot  blot 
The  name  of  Grimeston  cannot  be  forgot."5 

The  manor  passed  on  Edward  Grimston's  death  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Sir  Harbottle  Grimston,  created  a  baronet  25th  Nov.  1612.  He  was  Sheriff 
of  Essex  1614-15,  M.P.  for  Harwich  1614,  for  Essex  1626  and  1628-29, 
for  Harwich  again  April  to  May,  1640,  and  Nov.  1640  till  his  death.  He 
was  imprisoned  in  1627  for  refusing  to  contribute  to  the  forced  loan  of  that 
year.  He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Ralph  Copinger,  of  the  Buxhall 
family,  but  resided  at  Stoke,  co.  Kent,  and  died  igth  Feb.  1647-8,'  when 
he  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Harbottle  Grimston,  2nd  Bart. 

He  was  successively  Recorder  of  Harwich  1634,  °f  Colchester  1638-53, 
and  of  Harwich  again  1660  ;  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons  1660  ; 
Master  of  the  Rolls  1660  to  1685.  He  married  ist  Mary,  daughter  of  Sir 
George  Croke,  of  Waterstock,  Oxford,  Justice  of  the  Common  Pleas  and 
later  of  the  King's  Bench  ;  and  2ndly  Anne,  daughter  and  at  length  heir  of 
Sir  Nathaniel  Bacon,  K.B.,  of  Culford,  and  widow  of  Sir  Thomas  Meautys, 
of  Gorhambury,  co.  Herts.7 

'State  Papers,  1540,  p.  1032.  4 Brass  in  Rishangles  Church,  Add.  32483. 

'Originalia  Rolls,  4  and  5  Ph.  and  M.,         5E.  A.  N.  and  Q.  vol.  viii.  p.  146. 

5  Pars.  Rot.  16.  6Will  proved  1648. 

sHarl.  607.  7Add.  MSS.  4109. 


300  THE  MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Page  says  :  "  About  this  time  (1665)  John  Revett,  Gent.,  a  younger 
brother  of  William  Revett,  Esq.,  late  of  Bildeston,  in  Cosford  Hundred, 
occupied  the  ancient  seat  of  the  Grimston  family  in  Rishangles."1 

Later  the  manor  and  advowson  were  vested  in  Edward  Vernon,  the 
Admiral,  who  presented  to  the  living  in  1720,  and  died  in  Oct.  1757,  when 
the  manor  passed  to  his  nephew  and  heir,  Francis  Vernon,  Lord  Orwell, 
afterwards  Earl  of  Shipbroke  (son  of  James  Vernon  by  his  wife,  Arethusa, 
daughter  of  Chas.  Lord  Clifford),  who,  dying  in  1783  without  issue,  it  passed  to 
his  nephew  and  heir,  John  Vernon  (son  of  Henry  Vernon  by  his  2nd  wife, 
Jane,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Cullum),  who  died  at  Brighton  25th  May,  1818. 
Shortly  after  his  death  the  manor  was  sold  to  Richard  Dalton. 

In  1853  the  manor  belonged  to  Frederick  Hayward,  solicitor,  of  Need- 
ham  Market,  and  subsequently  passed  to  the  Rev.  Frederick  Lawson 
Hayward,  LL.B.,  rector  of  Tunstall,  who  died  in  1904,  when  the  same  passed 
to  and  is  now  vested  in  his  trustees. 

Arms  of  GRIMSTON  :  Argent ;  on  a  fesse,  Sable,  three  mullets  of  six 
points  Or,  pierced,  Gules  ;  in  the  dexter  chief  point,  an  Ermine  spot.  Of 
VERNON  :  Or. ;  on  a  fesse,  Azure,  three  garbs  of  the  first. 


1  Hist,  of  Suff.  p.  484. 


STOKE  ASH.  301 

STOKE  ASH. 

HERE  was  a  manor  held  here  in  Saxon  times  by  Ulveva 
under  commendation  to  Stigand,  consisting  of  i  carucate 
of  land,  40  acres,  4  bordars,  2  serfs,  3  ploughteams  in 
demesne,  4  acres  of  meadow,  and  wood  sufficient  to  support 
8  hogs.  Also  a  church  with  15  acres,  having  a  plough- 
team,  which  had  come  down  to  half  a  team  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey. 

The  live  stock  consisted  of  i  rouncy,  6  beasts,  12  hogs,  and  20  goats, 
but  the  details  had  considerably  altered  by  the  time  of  the  Survey — the 
bordars  and  rouncies  were  doubled,  and  the  beasts  had  come  down  to  half. 
The  value  was  always  loos. 

Also  5  freemen  under  commendation  held  32  acres,  i  ploughteam 
(reduced  to  half  at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued 
at  55.  A,d.  It  was  10  quarentenes  long  and  6  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  6d., 
the  soc  belonging  to  Ulveva,  and  that  over  the  freemen  to  the  King  and 
Earl.  The  Domesday  tenant  was  Robert  Malet.  Robert  Malet  also  held 
here  20  acres,  2  bordars,  and  half  a  ploughteam  in  demesne,  with  2  acres  of 
meadow,  valued  at  55.,  of  which  Stigand  had  the  soc.  This  had  formerly 
been  held  by  Siric,  a  freeman  who  had  i  ploughteam  in  demesne.1 

Three  holdings  in  this  place  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  belonged  to  the 
fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds.  One  consisted  of  14  acres,  valued  at 
35.,  formerly  held  by  Buchard,  the  abbot's  socman.  The  Survey  goes  on 
to  say :  "  This  land  Robert  Fardene,  Goodrich  the  steward's  man,  claims 
as  belonging  to  the  King's  Manor  of  Mendlesham,  and  says  that  Walter  de 
Dol  held  it  when  he  made  forfeiture,  and  this  he  will  prove  against  the 
whole  Hundred  by  all  kinds  of  law."  Another  holding  consisted  of  24 
acres,  i  ploughteam,  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  55.,  formerly  held 
by  eight  freemen  under  commendation  and  soc.  The  third  holding  con- 
sisted of  33^  acres,  2  ploughteams,  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  6s., 
formerly  held  by  14  freemen.  The  soc  and  commendation  were  the  abbot's 
except  over  one.* 

Among  the  lands  of  Earl  Ralph  kept  in  hand  for  the  King  by  Goodrich 
the  steward  in  this  place  were  8  acres  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued 
at  2s.  4^.,  formerly  held  by  4  freemen  under  Burchard's  commendation.3 
Among  the  lands  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmund's  were  10  acres  and  half 
a  ploughteam,  wood  for  the  support  of  2  hogs,  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow, 
valued  at  35.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  7  freemen  under  the  soc  and 
commendation  of  the  abbot.4 

We  have  given  all  the  entries  under  Stoke,  in  Hartismere  Hundred,  but 
the  better  opinion  seems  to  be  that  only  two  of  the  holdings  relate  to 
this  Stoke  Ash,  namely,  the  land  of  the  King  and  the  lands  of  Robert 
Malet. 

MANOR  OF  STOKE  HALL. 

The  lordship  of  this  parish  was  given  by  Robert  Malet  to  the  priory 
of  Benedictine  Monks  at  Eye,  of  which  he  was  the  founder,  and  we  find 
in  1396  a  grant  of  free  warren  here  to  the  priory.5 

Ministers'  accounts  of  the  manor,  when  held  by  Eye  priory,  18  Edw.  II., 
will  be  found  in  the  Public  Record  Office.6  At  the  dissolution  of  that 

'Dom.  ii.  3216,  3226.  4Dom.  ii.  371. 

'Dom.  ii.  3^0,  371.  'Chart.  Rolls,  20  Rich.  II.  4. 

3  Dom.  ii.  286.  6  Bundle  1127,  No.  4. 


302  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

monastery,  this  manor  passed  to  the  Crown,  and  a  grant  was  made  in  1536 
to  Edmund  Bedingfield.  Coulsey  Wood,  in  the  parish  of  Stoke  Ash,  was 
the  residence  of  a  branch  of  the  Bedingfield  family.  Henry  Bedingfield, 
of  Coulsey  Wood,  married  Mary,  daughter  of  William  Havers,  lord  of 
Thilton  in  Norfolk,  whose  daughter  Mary  married  Thomas  Woode,  of  Bracon 
Ash,  in  the  same  county.  The  Bedingfields  do  not  seem  to  have  held  this 
lordship  for  any  length  of  time,  for  in  1558  we  find  a  grant  of  it  to  John 
Parker.1  The  catalogue  of  the  Harleian  MSS.  states  that  the  manor  was 
rated  22nd  June,  1558,  for  Robert  Parker."  John  Parker  died  in  1573, 
when  the  manor  passed  to  his  widow  Mildred,  and  there  is  amongst  the 
Chancery  Proceedings  an  action  relating  to  the  manor  brought  by  this 
Mildred  Parker  against  Nicholas  Cutler.3  Subject  to  Mildred's  interest, 
the  manor  passed  to  her  son  and  heir,  John  Parker. 

In  1596  John  Parker  sold  the  manor  to  Edmund  Bokenham,4  and  in 
1609  it  appears  to  have  been  held  by  John  Bokenham,  possibly  as  a  trustee, 
for  this  year  he  aliened  it  to  the  said  Edmund  Bokenham  and  Barbara  his 
wife  ;  and  amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  is  an  action  for  claim  and 
delivery  of  deeds  relating  to  this  manor  by  Edmund  Bokenham  against 
John  Parker.5  The  manor  subsequently  passed  as  Stoke  Ash  with  Thorpe, 
the  devolution  of  which  is  next  given. 

MANOR  OF  STOKE  ASH  WITH  THORPE. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  John  Bokenham,  of  Thornham,  and  on  his 
death  in  1609  passed  to  his  son,  Edmund  Bokenham,  who  died  in  1619, 
when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Henry  Bokenham,  and  on  his  death 
in  1648  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Wiseman  Bokenham,  on  whose  death 
in  1670  it  vested  in  his  son  and  heir,  Paul  Bokenham.6 

The  manor  subsequently  passed  to  Charles  Kelligrew,  who  by  his 
will  gave  it  to  Charles  Tyrell,  who  sold  it  to  John  Major,  afterwards 
created  a  baronet,  who  died  in  1781,  when  it  passed  to  his  daughter  and 
heir,  Anne,  married  to  John  Henniker,  afterwards  created  a  baronet,  and 
from  them  has  since  devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Great 
Thornham,  in  this  Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  Lord  Henniker. 

MANOR  OF  WOODHALL. 

In  1206  Eustace  de  Gerardvile  conveyed  by  fine  a  carucate  and  a  half 
of  land  here  to  William  de  Gerardvile,  who  in  1210  by  fine  passed  the  advow- 
son  to  the  priory  of  Eye. 

Thomas  de  Gerardvile  later  held  the  lordship,  which  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  William  de  Gerardvile,  who  in  1270  disputed  the  title  of  the  prior 
of  Eye  to  present,  but  ultimately  the  same  year  conveyed  or  confirmed  the 
advowson  by  fine  to  the  priory. 

We  next  meet  with  Sir  John  Gardevile,  or  Gerardvile,  holding  the 
manor.  At  the  end  of  the  I4th  century,  it  had  passed  to  the  Poley  family,7 
and  in  1397  Thomas  Poley  held  his  first  court.  From  him  the  manor  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  Richard  Poley,  and  from  him  to  his  son  and  heir,  Simon 

1  Originalia,  5  and  6  Ph.  and  M.,2  Pars.         6See  Manor  of  Thelnetham  in  Blackbourn 

Rot.  32.  Hundred. 

'Harl.  608.  7See  Boxstead  Hall  Manor,  Boxstead,  in 

i  C.P.  ser.  ii.  B.  cxi.  19.  Babergh  Hundred,  and  Badley,  in 

4  Fine,  Trin.  38  Eliz.  Bosmere  and   Claydon   Hundred. 
» C.P.  i.  85. 


STOKE   ASH.  303 

Poley,  who  died  in  1485,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry 
Poley,1  who  died  in  1487,  when  it  went  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edmund  Poley, 
on  whose  death  in  1548'  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Poley,  who  died 
in  1589,  when  it  appears  to  have  passed  to  his  2nd  son,  Richard  Poley, 
who  married  Mary,  eldest  daughter  of  Sir  John  Brewse,  of  Little  Wenham] 
and  then  on  Richard's  death,  i4th  Feb.  1592,  to  have  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Edmund  Poley,  of  Badley,  who,  dying  in  1640,  it  vested  in  his 
son  and  heir,  Sir  Edmund  Poley. 

Davy  says  that  Sir  Henry  Crofts  and  Francis  Warner  were  lords  in 
1640,  but  this  is  not  correct,  for  they  were  the  trustees  of  a  settlement  made 
i8th  May,  1640,  on  Edmund  Poley's  second  marriage,  which  was  to  Frances, 
2nd  daughter  of  Sir  John  Crofts,  of  Saxham.  Edmund  Poley  sold  the 
manor  for  £2,800  to  Edmund  Harvey,  of  Wickham  Skeith,  and  the  con- 
veyance to  him  was  dated  3Oth  Jan.  On  Harvey's  death  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry  Harvey,  who  died  about  1669, 
when  it  passed  to  his  widow  Elizabeth,  who  held  a  first  court  this  year  as 
guardian  of  her  son,  Edmund  Harvey.  He  and  his  wife  Anne  held  their 
first  court  in  1671  ;  he  disentailed  the  estate  in  1674,  and  by  deed  22nd 
and  23rd  March,  1706,  sold  to  William  Ellis,  of  Cotton,  for  £2,305,  who 
with  Ann  his  wife  held  their  first  court  this  same  year.  William  Ellis  died 
in  1719,  and  his  widow  Ann  remarried  John  Heigham,  and  they  held  their 
first  court  in  1723.  The  year  before  his  mother's  death  John  Ellis,  son  and 
heir  of  William,  in  consideration  of  marriage  with  Frances  Harland,  eldest 
daughter  of  Robert  Harland,  and  of  £1,600  by  deed  dated  27th  Aug.  1737, 
conveyed  the  manor  to  Robert  Harland  and  Philip  Broke,  of  Nacton,  as 
trustees  and  by  way  of  settlement.  The  deed  states  that  Anne  Higham, 
mother  of  the  said  John,  then  dwelt  in  the  manor  house. 

She  died  in  1738,  when  the  manor  passed  to  John  Ellis,  the  son  and  heir, 
and  he  and  his  wife  Frances  held  their  first  court  in  1739,  in  which  year  he 
died,  his  will  being  dated  i7th  Oct.  1739.  His  widow  remarried  William 
Gage,  afterwards  Sir  William  Gage,  Bart.,  and  they  sold  the  manor  by  deeds 
dated  i6th  and  i7th  March,  1752,  to  George  Turner.  He  died  in  1781, 
when  it  passed  by  his  will  to  his  cousin  and  heir,  George  Turner,  who  dying 
in  1797,  it  went  by  his  will  to  his  son  and  heir,  the  Rev.  George  Turner,  of 
Kettleburgh,  who  held  his  first  court  in  r8o2. 

The  manor  subsequently  passed  to  Captain  Henry  Lewis  Round- 
Turner,  of  Grundisburgh,  who  assumed  the  name  of  Turner  in  1872,  by 
royal  licence,  and  succeeded  to  the  estates  of  his  cousin,  the  Rev.  George 
Turner.  He  married  in  1874  Clara  Wortley,  4th  daughter  of  Capt.  Samuel 
Stong,  R.N.,  and  died  gth  July,  1881,  leaving,  with  other  issue,  George 
Henry  Round-Turner.  The  manor  is  now  apparently  in  the  trustees 
of  the  will  of  the  late  Capt.  Round-Turner.  A  rental  for  1763  of  this  manor 
will  be  found  in  the  Davy  MSS.3 

Arms  of  GARDEVILLE  :  Argent ;  a  fesse  between  three  garbs,  Gules. 

A  manor  called  "  Woodhall  "  was  included  in  a  fine  levied  in  1595 
by  Sir  Thomas  Kytson  and  others  against  Sir  Thomas  Cornwallis.4 


'See  Little  Bradley  Manor,  in  Risbridge         3Add.  MSS.  19090,  p.  122. 

Hundred.  4Fine,  Easter,  37  Eliz. 

'I.P.M.,  3  Edw.  VI.  127. 


304  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

STUSTON. 

HERE  was  a  manor  in  this  place  in  Saxon  times  held  by 
Wolsey,  a  freeman  under  Gurth's  commendation,  con- 
sisting of  2  carucates  of  land,  4  villeins,  4  bordars,  2  plough- 
teams  in  demesne  (reduced  to  i  at  the  time  of  the  Survey), 
i  ploughteam  belonging  to  the  men,  6  acres  of  meadow,  2 
beasts  (also  reduced  to  i  at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  and 
5  hogs.  The  value  was  6os.,  reduced  to  405.  at  the  time  of 
the  Survey,  when  the  tenant  was  Ralph  de  Felgeris. 

There  was  also  here  a  small  estate  belonging  to  Ralph  de  Felgeris, 
consisting  of  12  acres,  valued  at  2S.,  formerly  belonging  to  3  freemen  under 
Wolsey's  commendation.  The  soc  belonged  to  the  King  and  Earl.1 

MANOR  OF  FAUCON'S  al.  FAKONS  OR  FALCONS. 

This  manor  was  appropriated  to  the  nunnery  of  Flixton  or  St.  Mary, 
South  Elmham,  at  an  early  date,  and  remained  the  lordship  of  that  house 
until  its  suppression  by  the  Bull  of  Clement  VII.  in  1528. 

In  1544  the  manor  was  granted  to  John  Eyre.  Particulars  for  the 
grant  to  him  are  still  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office.2 

John  Eyre  had  licence  to  alien  it  to  Sir  Thomas  Cornwallis3  the  same 
year,  and  on  the  death  of  Sir  Thomas  in  1604  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Sir  William  Cornwallis,  who  died  in  1613,  from  which  time  the 
manor  has  devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Brome  Hall,  in  this 
Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  Lady  Bateman,  of  Brome  Hall. 

Arms  of  EYRE  :  Argent  on  a  chevron,  Sable,  three  quarterfoils,  Or. 

MANOR  OF  BEZILLERS  OR  BOYLAND'S. 

This  manor  was  granted  by  the  Crown  to  Ranulph,  Earl  of  Chester, 
for  life,  and  on  his  death  in  1232  again  vested  in  the  Crown,  and  was  granted 
by  Hen.  III.  to  Ingerand  de  Fane  for  life,  and  on  his  death  soon  afterwards 
to  Sir  William  de  Syvay,  or  Synagon,  for  life,  and  after  his  death  to  Sir 
Almaric,  or  Aylmer  de  Berriles  or  Beziles — probably  Almaric  took  a  limited 
interest,  or  died  without  heir,  for  on  his  death  in  1279  the  manor  went  again 
to  the  Crown,  and  in  1284  King  Edw.  I.  granted  the  same  to  Sir  Richard 
de  Boyland  and  his  heirs  at  half  a  knight's  fee.4  Notice  of  the  grant  is  on 
the  Patent  Rolls,  and  it  is  made  to  Richard  de  Boyland,  as  regards  his  grant 
of  the  lands  late  of  "  Almaric  Bezill,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief  in  Stuston," 
that  he  and  his  heirs  be  quit  as  to  all  issues  received  from  the  death  of  the 
said  Almaric.5 

This  was  styled  Boyland's  fee,  one  third  of  which  lay  in  this  parish, 
and  nearly  the  same  quantity  in  Frenze,  and  the  rest  in  Osmundeston  or 
Scole,  in  Norfolk. 

Sir  Richard  de  Boyland  died  in  1295  or  1296,°  when  the  manor  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  John  de  Boyland.  From  an  entry  on  the  Patent  Rolls 
in  1330  we  find  that  John  de  Lowdham  and  Joan  his  wife  had  acquired 

'Dom.  ii.  432.  4  Chart.  Rolls,  13  Edw.  I.  47. 

'36  Hen.  VIII.,  D.K.R.  9  App.  ii.  p.  207.  >  Pat.  Rolls,  15  Edw.  I.  ri. 

3  A  Manor  of  Stuston  is  mentioned  in  the         6I.P.M.,  24  Edw.  I.  60. 
Inquisition  p.m.  of  Edward  Corn- 
wallis,  who   died   3rd  Sept.  1510, 
leaving  William    his    brother   and 
heir.    (I.P.M.,  a  Hen.  VIII.) 


STUSTON.  305 

for  themselves,  and  the  heirs  of  John,  from  John  de  Boyland  an  acre  and 
a  half  and  8  librates  of  land,  and  a  rent  of  £8.  55.  in  Osmundeston  and 
Stuston,  which  were  held  in  chief ;  for  a  pardon  was  then  granted  for  the 
acquisition  without  licence,1  and  we  find  that  in  1345  the  said  John  de 
Lowdham  paid  los.  for  his  relief  for  the  manor  "  late  Sir  John  Boyland's, 
son  of  Richard,  called  Boyland  Fee,"  and  in  1351  Sir  John,  his  son  and  heir, 
held  the  same.  He  died  in  1355,  and  Joan,  his  widow,  held  it  at  her  death 
in  1371,  of  Edmund,  son  of  Sir  Thomas  de  Ufford,  Lord  of  Eye.  The 
manor  next  passed  to  John  Lowdham,  son  of  Thomas,  son  of  the  last- 
mentioned  John,  and  from  his  death  in  1374  to  the  marriage  of  Mary, 
daughter  of  George  Blenerhasset,  with  Thomas  Culpepper,  the  manor 
devolved  in  the  same  course  as  Tuddenham  Manor,  in  Tuddenham,  in 
Carlford  Hundred. 

This  manor  is  specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  John 
Blenerhasset,  who  died  8th  Nov.  1510,'  Sir  Thomas  Blenerhasset,  who 
died 27th  June,  I53i,3and  George  Blenerhasset,  who  died  i8th  Feb.  1543.* 

The  manor  afterwards  went  to  John  Blenerhasset,5  son  of  Sir  Thomas 
and  brother  of  George,  who  sold  his  moiety  in  1548  to  Sir  Thomas  Corn- 
wallis,6  whose  heirs  purchased  the  other  half  after  several  conveyances 
from  Wodehouse  to  Gryme,  and  from  them  to  Rant  and  others.  Sir 
Thomas  Cornwallis  died  in  1604,  when  the  manor  went  to  his  son  and  heir, 
and  from  this  period  the  manor  passed  in  the  same  course  of  devolution 
as  the  Manor  of  Fau con's,  and  is  now  vested  in  Lady  Bateman,  of  Brome 
Hall. 

Arms  of  BOYLAND  :  Azure,  a  saltier  engrailed  Or. 

MANOR  OF  BEAUCHAMPS. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  John  de  Bellocampo/  and  later  passed  to  Brian 
de  Hickling.  His  widow  Cecilia,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Sir  Bartholomew 
Davillers,  died  in  1345,  when  the  manor  passed  to  Brian's  son  and  heir, 
John  de  Hickling,  who  died  without  issue. 

Later  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  John  Cornwallis. 

MANOR  OF  HUGH  OR  Hoo  MARGARET'S  al.  STUSTON  HALL. 

John  de  Hoo,  of  Laxfield,  and  Joan  his  wife,  held  messuages  and 
lands  here  in  1331,  which  in  1339  were  held  by  William  de  Hoo  and  Mar- 
garet his  wife.  These  parties  probably  held  the  manor,  which  in  the  early 
part  of  the  i6th  century  became  vested  in  John  Mynster  Chamber,  who 
died  26th  Jan.  I543,8  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Humphrey 
Mynster  Chamber,  then  aged  28.  William  Methwold,  who  was  probably 
a  trustee,  conveyed  the  manor  to  Humphrey  Mynster  Chamber  and  Anne 
his  wife,  who  was  sister  of  the  said  William.  Humphrey  Mynster  Chamber 
died  24th  Oct.  1564,  leaving  an  only  daughter  Frances,  then  aged  two 
years.9  Frances,  the  daughter,  married  Nicholas  Gislingham,  and  a  fine 
of  the  manor  was  levied  by  them  in  1578. 10 

'  Pat.  Rolls,  4  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  25.  ?  In  1279  we  find  on  the  Patent  Rolls  an 

'I.P.M.,  2  Hen.  VIII.  33.  action   by  Aldreda  de  Beauchamp 

s  I.P.M.,  23  Hen.  VIII.  63.  against  Robert  del  Perer  and  others, 

«I.P.M.,  36  Hen.  VIII.  touching   a   tenement   in   Stuston. 

s  See  Lowdham  Manor,  Wilford  Hundred.  Pat.  Rolls,  7  Edw.  I.  $d. 

e  Fine,  Mich.  2  Edw.  VI.  "I.P.M.,  34  Hen.  VIII.  pt.  iii.  224. 

'I.P.M.,  6  Eli/.  168. 

10  Fine,  20  Eliz.  39. 

P  I 


306  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth 
is  an  action  by  Nicholas  and  his  wife,  Frances,  described  as  "  sole  heir  of 
Humphrey  Mynster  Chamber  deceased,"  against  Sir  Thomas  Cornwallis 
to  establish  manorial  rights  of  Frances  as  to  this  manor  and  the  advowson 
of  the  church  of  Stuston  and  copyhold  lands,  held  of  defendant  as  of  his 
Manors  of  Boylands  and  Faucons,  also  Stuston  Common  and  other  appur- 
tenances of  Stuston  al.  Hoo  Margarett's  Manor,  which  common  was  claimed 
by  defendant  as  held  of  a  manor  called  Asmundstons  and  Stuston,  but 
which  the  bill  charges  is  called  in  ancient  records  Osmondston  in  Scole,' 
and  we  find  also  amongst  the  same  Proceedings  an  action  at  law  between 
Nicholas  Gislingham  and  Robert  Warren  as  to  land,  parcel  of  Stuston  Manor, 
sold  by  plaintiff  to  defendant,  the  said  manor  stated  to  belong  to  the 
plaintiff  in  right  of  his  wife.*  A  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  in  1579  by 
William  Peigham  against  Nicholas  Gislingham  and  others.3  A  fine  was 
levied  of  the  manor  in  1581  by  Robert  Bedyngf  eld  against  Nicholas  Gislingham 
and  others.4  Frances  took  for  a  second  husband  Christopher  Bedingfield,  of 
Wighton,  in  Norfolk,  and  Henry  Bedingfield  seems  to  have  succeeded  to  the 
lordship  of  this  manor.  He  died  in  1595,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Philip  Bedingfield.  Somewhat  later  Sir  John  Castleton,  2nd  Bart, 
of  the  family,  inherited  the  estate  by  his  marriage  26th  Apl.  1642, with 
Margaret,  daughter  and  heir  of  Robert  Morse,  by  Margaret  his  wife,  daughter 
of  Henry  Bedingfield. 

He  resided  at  Stuston  Hall,  a  good  old  mansion  erected  by  Richard 
Nix,  Bishop  of  Norwich,  from  1500  to  1535.  Sir  John  Castleton  had  issue 
Sir  John  Castleton,  3rd  Bart.,  his  successor,  who  married  Bridget,  daughter 
of  Thomas  Read,  of  Berdwell,  sister  to  Sir  Charles  Crofts  Read,  Knt.,  but 
died  without  issue  in  June,  1705  ;  George  and  Charles,  who  died  without 
issue,  Sir  Robert,  4th  Bart.,  and  Sir  Philip,  5th  Bart.,  who  died  in  July, 
1724,  all  of  whom  leaving  no  issue.  The  estate  does  not  appear  to  have 
remained  in  the  Castleton  family5  for  more  than  two  descents,  and  from 
this  family  passed  to  the  Marriots,  and  was  afterwards  purchased  by  Samuel 
Traverse,  whose  trustees  held  the  manor  in  1764. 

They  sold  the  manor  to  Christ's  Hospital,  with  whom  the  lordship 
has  continued  ever  since. 

Arms  of  CASTLETON  :  Azure,  on  a  bend,  Or,  three  snakes  of  the  field. 


1  C.P.  i.  369.  «  Fine,  Mich.  23-24  Eliz. 

*C.P.  i.  361.  'As  to  this  family  see  E.  A.  N.  and  Q.  iii. 

1  Fine,  Easter,  21  Eliz.  249. 


THORNDON.  307 

THORNDON. 

|  HE  name  Torentuna  in  Domesday  Survey  is  clearly  an 
error  for  Torneduna,  though  it  is  often  rendered  Thorington, 
which  is  not  in  Hartismere,  but  in  Blything  Hundred! 
There  were  two  manors  in  his  place  in  Saxon  times.  The 
first  was  held  under  Stigand  by  Ulveva,  and  consisted  of 

3  carucates  of  land,  40  acres,  4  villeins,  16  bordars,  4  serfs, 

4  ploughteams  in  demesne  and  3  belonging  to  the  men,  6 
acres  of  meadow,  wood  to  support  200  hogs,  and  i  mill.     Also  a  church 
with  50  acres  of  free  land,  i  ploughteam,  and  an  acre  of  meadow.     Of  live 
stock  there  were  2  rouncies,  15  beasts,  40  hogs,  and  60  sheep.    The  holding 
was  valued  at  £5 .     At  the  time  of  the  Survey  this  manor  was  held  by  Robert 
Malet,  and  some  of  its  details  had  altered.      The  serfs  were  reduced  to 
half,  and  there  was  enough  wood  to  support  120  hogs  only,  the  hogs  had 
come  down  to  31,  and  the  sheep  to  24,  while  the  value  had  increased  to  £8. 
The  soc  belonged,  under  Stigand,  to  Ulveva. 

The  second  manor  was  held  by  Turchetel,  a  freeman  under  commenda- 
tion to  Ulveva.  It  consisted  of  30  acres,  2  bordars,  i|  ploughteams,  and 
an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  los.  This  also  belonged  at  the  time  of  the 
Survey  to  Robert  Malet,  the  King  and  Earl  having  the  soc.  Also  in  the 
same  township  held  by  Robert  Malet  were  88  acres,  2  ploughteams,  and 
2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  205.,  formerly  held  by  7  freemen.  The  soc 
belonged  to  the  King  and  Earl.1 

Belonging  to  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  was  a  small  estate 
in  this  place,  consisting  of  16  acres,  valued  at  35.,  formerly  belonging  to 
6  freemen  under  the  abbot's  soc  and  commendation.2 

There  is  a  holding  mentioned  in  the  Survey  as  in  Hestley.  This,  no 
doubt,  belongs  to  Thorndon,  as  Hestley  was  a  Manor  of  Thorndon.  The 
holding  is  of  2  freemen  under  commendation,  and  consisted  of  10  acres, 
valued  at  20^.  Ralph  de  Limesi  held  this  in  demesne  as  the  Domesday 
tenant  in  chief.3 

MANOR  OF  THORNDON. 

This  was  probably  the  lordship  of  Robert  Malet,  and  was  later  held  by 
Henry,  Duke  of  Lothier,  from  whom  it  passed  to  his  brother,  Godfrey  de 
Lovaine,  who  died  in  1224,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Matthew 
de  Lovaine,  who  took  under  the  gift  of  his  uncle.  He  was  followed  by 
Henry,  Duke  of  Lothier,  and  then  the  manor  was  vested  in  Edmund  Planta- 
genet,  Earl  of  Cornwall,  from  whom  it  passed  to  his  widow  Margaret  in 
1301,  and  on  her  death  reverted  to  the  Crown. 

In  1320  the  manor  was  granted  in  dower  to  Isabel,  Queen  of  England, 
in  exchange.  She  surrendered  it  to  the  King  in  1330,  who  in  1337  granted 
it  to  Robert  de  Ufford,  on  whose  death  in  1369"  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
William  de  Ufford,  2nd  Earl  of  Suffolk.5  On  William's  death  rsth  Feb. 
1382,  the  manor  was  assigned  in  dower  to  his  widow  Isabel,  daughter  of  Sir 
Thomas  Beauchamp,  Earl  of  Warwick. 

In  1385  the  reversion  of  the  manor,  after  the  death  of  Isabel  the  widow, 
was  granted  to  Michael  de  la  Pole,  Earl  of  Suffolk,6  and  on  his  death  in 

'Dom.  ii.  323.  5See  Extent.    William  de  Ufford  and  Joan 

1  Dom.  ii.  370.  his  wife,  1381 ;    I. P.M.,  5  Rich.  II. 

3  Dom.  ii.  429.  57. 

4  Extent.  I.P.M.,  43  Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  38.         6  R.P.  iii.  208. 


308  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

1441'  the  manor  passed  to  William  de  la  Pole,  4th  Earl  of  Suffolk,  created 
Duke  of  Suffolk,  who  was  beheaded  in  1450.' 

The  manor  passed  from  William  de  la  Pole  to  his  son  and  heir,  John, 
2nd  Duke  of  Suffolk,  and  on  his  death  in  1491  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Edmund  de  la  Pole,  3rd  Duke,  who  was  beheaded  in  1513. 3  The  manor  had, 
however,  before  this  gone  to  the  Crown,  though  Edmund  had  before  his 
attainder  attempted  to  grant  the  manor  away,  for  from  the  State  Papers 
in  1513  we  learn  that  a  commission  was  issued  to  inquire  into  the 
circumstances  of  this  grant.4 

A  grant  was  made  2Oth  Jan.  2  Hen.  VIII.  [1510]  of  the  manor  to  Sir 
Robert  Brandon,  with  a  warren  in  Thorndon,  the  park  of  Ryshangles, 
advowsons  of  Thorndon,  and  Wattelesfield,  with  the  fair,  market,  and 
advowson  of  Saxmundham,5  but  in  1514  an  assignment  of  the  manor  in 
dower  was  made  to  Margaret  dela  Pole,  widow  of  Edmund,  and  on  her  death 
in  1516  the  manor  is  said  to  have  again  reverted  to  the  Crown.  This  may 
have  been  the  case,  but  it  certainly  was  vested  in  Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of 
Suffolk,  in  1538,  for  we  find  amongst  the  State  Papers  for  this  year  a  grant 
of  the  manor  by  him  to  the  Crown  in  exchange.6 

In  1557  the  Queen  leased  the  manor  to  Francis  Yaxley,  who  left  his 
interest  to  his  cousin  Walter  and  his  cousin  Sherman. 

In  1574  the  Queen  granted  the  lordship  to  Sir  Thomas  Heneage  and 
Roger  Greenwade,  which  grant  proving  defective  the  King  in  1615  granted 
the  manor  to  Sir  John  Pretyman,  Richard  Pretyman,  Henry  Grey,  and 
William  Coleman.  Either  the  others  named  were  trustees  for  Sir  John 
Pretyman,  or  he  acquired  their  interests,  for  he  was  certainly  sole  lord  24th 
June,  1629,  when  he  held  a  court,  a  copy  court  entry  from  which  is  in  the 
writer's  possession,  Further,  he  sold  the  manor.  We  meet  with  a  fine 
of  the  manor  in  1589  levied  by  Sir  John  Highton  and  others  against  J . 
Pretyman,  sen.,  and  others.7 

In  1764  the  manor  was  vested  in  Rowland  Holt,  and  in  1837  in  Frederick 
Hayward,  solicitor,  of  Needham  Market,  and  from  this  time  has  passed  in 
the  same  course  as  the  manor  of  Rishangles,  in  this  Hundred. 

MANOR  OF  GODRICH'S   THORPE  al.  CLAXTON   HALL  al.  COLSTON    HALL 

al.  LAMPETS. 

In  the  time  of  the  Confessor  this  estate  belonged  to  Turchetel,  a 
freeman  under  the  protection  of  Ulveva,  and  was  part  of  the  estate  of 
Robert  Malet  in  the  Conqueror's  day. 

In  1312  it  was  the  lordship  of  John  Lampet,  of  Thorndon,  and  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  William  Lampet.  In  1588  the  manor  passed  to  William 
Smythe  under  a  fine  levied  by  him  against  John  Homberston  and  others.8 

In  1608  the  manor  was  vested  in  John  Lavyle,  for  this  year  he  granted 
it  to  the  King. 

John  jfeggon,  master  of  Bennett  College,  Cambridge,  and  Bishop  of 
Norwich,  died  in  1617  seised  of  the  manor  and  other  estates  in  the  county, 
leaving  a  widow,  daughter  of  Richard  Vaughan,  Bishop  of  London,  who 
remarried  Sir  Charles  Cornwallis,  of  Beeston,  in  Norfolk.  Robert  Jeggon, 

1  See   Manor   of   Kettlebaston,  in  Cosford  « S.P.  5  Hen.  VIII.  4254. 

Hundred,  and  Manor  of  Gyfford's  »S.P.  2  Hen.  VIII.  1453;  Harl.  51  H.  20. 

Wattisfield,  Blackboura   Hundred.  «S.P.  30  Hen.  VIII.  ii.  1182  (i8a). 

•I.P.M.,  28  Hen.  VI.  25.  ?Fine,  Mich.  31-32  Eliz. 

>I.P.M.,  5  Hen.  VIII.  I.  "Fine,  Trin.  30  Eliz. 


THORNDON. 


309 


son  and  heir,  was  then  about  10  years  of  age.   John,  the  2nd  son,  died  in 
1631,  and  Dorothy,  his  daughter,  was  wife  to  Robert  Gosnold,  of  Otley. 

Arms  of  JEGGON  :  Argent,  two  chevronels  Gules  ;  on  a  canton  Azure, 
a  falcon  rising,  Or. 

MANOR  OF  HESTELEY  HALL. 

In  the  time  of  William  the  Conqueror  Ralph  Limesi  had  land  here.  As 
early  as  1273  the  Bedingfields  are  mentioned  as  holding  land  in  this  place, 
for  on  the  Patent  Rolls  we  find  an  action  by  Adam,  son  of  Hubert  de  Beding- 
field  against  Walter  de  la  Hagh,  touching  a  messuage  and  land  in 
Thorndon.1 

In  the  I3th  century  the  manor  belonged  to  Sir  Adam  de  Bedingfield, 
steward  of  the  Honor  of  Eye,  1265,  and  passed  on  his  death  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Peter  de  Bedingfield,  who  died  in  1331.  On  the  Originalia  Rolls  this 
year  we  meet  with  a  grant  by  the  King  of  all  the  grass  growing  on  land 
of  the  Manor  of  Hestley  which  belonged  to  Peter  de  Bedyngfeld.2  On 
Peter  de  Bedingfield' s  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir 
Edmund  Bedingfield,  who  married  Maud,  daughter  and  heir  of  William  de 
Hemenhale,  and  on  his  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir 
Peter  Bedingfield,  who  married  Margaret,  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Bacon, 
and  died  in  I37i,3  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  Beding- 
field. He  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  -  -  Norton,  of  Rendham,  and 
on  his  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas  Bedingfield, 
who  was  living  in  1417,  and  from  him  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edmund  Beding- 
field. He  married  Margaret,  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  de  Tudenham  and 
sisterof  Sir  Thomas  Tudenham,  and  died  in  I45I,4  when  the  manor  probably 
went  to  his  widow  Margaret,  who  died  in  1474,*  when  it  vested  in  her 
grandson,  Sir  Edmund  Bedingfield,  son  and  heir  of  her  son,  Thomas  Beding- 
field (who  had  died  I2th  Oct.  1453  in  his  mother's  lifetime),  by  his  wife 
Anne,  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Waldegrave,  of  Walgrave,  co. 
Northampton. 

Sir  Edmund  Bedingfield  was  made  a  K.B.  at  the  coronation  of  Rich.  III. 
and  married  twice — ist  Alice,  daughter  of  Sir  Ralph  Shelton,  by  whom  he 
had  a  daughter  Margaret,  who  married  Sir  Edward  Jernegan,  of  Somerley- 
ton  ;  and  2ndly  Margaret,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Scott,  of  Scot's  Hall,  co. 
Kent,  comptroller  of  Calais.  Sir  Edmund,  by  his  will  dated  at  Calais, 
I2th  Oct.  1496,*  devised  the  manor  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Thomas.  He 
married  ist  Margaret  Clifford,  and  2ndly,  Alice,  daughter  of  William  London, 
widow  of  Edmund  Rookwood,  of  Euston,  and  afterwards  wife  of  Lord 
Burgh,  and  died  without  issue  in  March,  1538,  when  the  manor  seems  not  to 
have  passed  to  the  next  brother,  Robert,  who  was  rector  of  Oxburgh  in 
1512  and  of  Eriswell  in  1533,  and  died  igth  July,  1539,  but  to  the  younger 
brother,  Sir  Edmund  Bedingfield,  knighted  by  Charles  Brandon  in  France 
in  1523.  He  married  Grace,  daughter  of  Henry,  Lord  Marney,  and  dying 
in  1551,  the  manor  is  said  to  have  passed  to  his  2nd  son,  Francis,  who 
married  Dorothy,  daughter  of  John  Wodehouse,  of  Kimbolton,  probably 
by  virtue  of  a  settlement  made  upon  him  of  this  manor  on  the  death  of  his 
uncle,  Sir  Thomas  Bedingfield  in  1538,  by  his  (Francis's)  father,  for  this  year 
we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  the  manor  by  Francis  and  others  against  Sir 

'Pat.  Rolls,  2  Edw.  I.  gd.  5See  Eriswell,  Lackford  Hundred. 

*O.  5  Edw.  III.  16.  6  Proved    28th  Jan.  following,   buried  at 

3  Will  proved  1371.  Oxburgh. 

4  Will  4th  June,  i45i,proved  2oth  July,  1451. 


3io  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK; 

Edmund  Bcdingficld  and  others.1  But  as  Sir  Francis  died  2ist  Dec. 
1549,*  if  he  enjoyed  at  all  it  must  have  been  during  his  father's  lifetime,  for 
Sir  Edmund  did  not  die,  as  we  have  said,  until  1551.  At  all  events  on  the 
death  of  Sir  Edmund  and  Francis,  the  manor  passed  to  Francis's  son  and 
heir,  Edmund  Bedingfield,  then  aged  n  years.  He  married  Elizabeth, 
daughter  and  heir  of — Stinson,  of  Mayhland,  co.  Norfolk,  and  levied 
a  fine  2Qth  June,  1561.  Two  years  later  he  sold  the  manor  to  John 
Pretyman.5 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Elizabeth  is  a  claim  as 
heiress-at-law  by  Nicholas  Bateman  and  Sibill  his  wife  against  John 
"  Prettyman  "  the  elder,  as  to  a  messuage  called  Hestley  House  and  lands 
in  Thorndon  held  of  the  Manor  of  Thorndon,  late  the  estate  of  W.  Bysshope, 
plaintiff  SibilTs  grandfather.4  Later  in  1595  we  meet  with  another  claim 
amongst  the  same  Chancery  Proceedings.  It  is  a  claim  as  heirs  in 
coparcenary  by  Agnes  Wynter  and  Alice  Wynter,  daughters  of  Simon 
Wynter,  against  John  "  Pretiman,"  lord  of  the  manor  of  Much  Bradfield,  to 
a  messuage  called  Hojstley  Hall  and  lands  in  Thorndon,  held  of  Thorndon 
Manor,  sometime  the  estate  of  William  Bishoppe,  the  plaintiff's  great-grand- 
father.5 

John  Pretyman  was  the  son  of  John  "  Pratyman  "  and  Margaret  his 
wife,  daughter  of  John  Frere,  of  Wickham  Skeith,  which  John  Pratyman 
was  the  son  of  John  Pratyman  and  Margaret  his  wife,  daughter  of  Hugh 
Smythe,  of  Cotton,  which  last-mentioned  John  Pratyman  was  the  son  of 
John  Pratyman,  sen.,  the  son  of  William  Pratyman,  of  Bacton,  living  in 
1476.  The  purchaser,  the  4th  John  Pretyman  in  succession  married 
Margaret,  daughter  of  Nicholas  Garnham,  of  Gernoun,  and  died  at  Bylaugh, 
in  Norfolk,  in  May,  1607,'  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
John  Pretyman,  of  Cranworth,  co.  Norfolk,  who  married  Mary,  daughter 
of  George  Sayre,  of  Colchester,  and  died  loth  March,  i6u,7  when  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  the  6th  John  Pretyman  in  succession.  He 
married  Bridget,  daughter  of  John  Futter,  of  Thuxton,  and  having  issue  II 
children  probably  deemed  it  advisable  to  dispose  of  the  manor,  for  he  sold 
it  in  1614,  with  the  Manor  of  Brames'  Hall,  in  Wetheringsett,  to  Sir  John 
Pretyman,  and  removed  to  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  where  he  was  living  in 
1655.  Thomas  Bishop  who  was  the  purchaser  of  Hestley  Hall  made  that 
his  place  of  residence.  Thomas  Bishop  married,  7th  July,  1589,  Dorothy 
Nunn,  and  had  a  son  Thomas  to  whom  this  mansion-house  passed,  and 
two  daughters — Grace  married  ist  Henry  Marsham,  of  Stratton,  in  Norfolk, 
and  andly  John  Cornwallis,  of  Wingfield  College.  The  2nd  daughter  Mary 
married  Francis  Alpe,  of  Burston,  in  Norfolk,  and  died  in  1687,  being 
buried  at  Stratton  aforesaid.  Thomas  Bishop,  the  son,  died  in  August. 
1664,  and  Hestley  Hall  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Bishop,  who 
died  unmarried  in  April,  1682. 

In  1837  the  manor  was  vested  in  Frederick  Hayward,  solicitor,  and 
has  since  devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Rishangles,  and  is  now 
vested  in  the  trustees  of  the  will  of  the  Rev.  Frederick  Lawson  Hayward. 

Hestley  Hall  is  an  ancient  mansion  embowered  in  trees,  4^  miles  south 
of  Eye. 


'Fine,  Trin.  30  Hen.  VIII. 
M.P.M.,  4  Edw.  VI.  82. 
JFine,  Easter,  5  Eliz. 


sC.P.  iii.  263. 
•I.P.M.,  5  Jas. 


I.r.m..  4   E*IW.   *  i.  o*.  -  1.1- an.,   3  jaa. 

'Fine,  Easter,  5  Eliz.  1  Will gth March, proved  rjth March,  1611 

4C.P.  i.  127. 


THORNDON.  311 

THE  MANOR  OF  THORNDON  PARVA. 

John  Cullum  gave  this  lordship  to  Tobias  Frere,  of  Harleston,  and  later 
it  was  vested  in  Peter  Houblin,  whose  daughter  married  John  Littele,  who 
held  the  manor  in  her  right,  and  on  their  death  it  passed  to  their  son  and 
heir,  John  Lawbridge  Littele.  His  daughter  Elizabeth  married  Sir  Robert 
Clarke,  of  Freckenham,  Bart.,  and  from  this  time  to  the  present  the  manor 
has  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Alpheton,  in  Babergh  Hun- 
dred, being  now  vested  in  Col.  Nathaniel  Barnardiston,  of  the  Ryes,  Sud- 
bury. 

There  is  also  a  small  manor  belonging  to  the  rector  of  Thorndon, 
and  extracts  from  the  Court  Rolls  of  this  manor  in  1706  will  be  found 
amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.1 


'Add.  Ch.  10503. 


312  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

THORN  HA  M  MA  GNA . 

N  Saxon  times  there  was  one  manor  in  this  place,  held  by 
Leuric  under  commendation  to  Bristric,  steward  to  the 
Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds.  It  consisted  of  a  carucate  of 
land,  2  bordars,  2  ploughteams  (which  was  reduced  later 
to  half  a  team  and  at  the  Survey  had  risen  again  to  i), 
2  acres  of  meadow,  wood  sufficient  to  support  30  hogs  (but 
at  the  time  of  the  Survey  enough  for  2  only),  and  2  rouncies ; 
also  the  fourth  part  of  a  church  with  3^  acres,  the  value  formerly  being  305. 
and  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  only  20$.  Over  the  land  the  abbot  had  three 
parts  of  the  soc,  and  the  King  the  fourth  part.  The  Domesday  tenant  was 
Isaac. 

Isaac  also  held  in  the  same  township  4^  acres,  valued  at  8d.,  formerly 
held  by  three  freeman.  The  township  seems  to  have  been  8  quarentenes 
long  and  8  broad,  and  it  paid  in  a  gelt  8%d.1 

Belonging  to  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  were  several  holdings. 
The  first  consisted  of  35  acres  under  the  soc  and  commendation  of  the  abbot, 
i£  ploughteams,  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  6s. 

It  was  formerly  held  by  a  freeman.  The  second  was  held  by  Leuric, 
a  freeman  under  commendation  to  the  abbot,  and  consisted  of  a  carucate 
of  land,  6  bordars,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne  and  half  a  ploughteam  belonging 
to  the  men,  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  also  wood  sufficient  to  support  8  hogs. 
The  value  was  aos.  The  third  was  that  of  5  freemen  under  the  abbot's 
soc  and  commendation,  and  consisted  of  44^  acres,  ij  ploughteams,  2 
acres  of  meadow,  and  wood  to  support  4  hogs,  the  value  being  8s.  The  last 
was  that  of  a  freeman  by  soc  and  commendation,  and  consisted  of  2  acres 
valued  at  $d .* 

Among  the  lands  of  Earl  Ralph  kept  in  hand  for  the  King  by  Goodrich 
the  steward  was  a  holding  here  of  4  acres,  valued  at  4^.,  held  by  a  freeman.3 

The  Survey  also  mentions  a  holding  here  without  land,  a  freeman  Ulmar 
held  by  Aubrey  de  Vere/ 

Among  the  lands  of  Robert  Malet  were  4  holdings.  The  first  was  of 
4  acres,  valued  at  I2d.,  held  by  Robert  Malet's  mother,  and  formerly  held 
by  Stannard,  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Edric,  the  soc  belonging 
to  the  King  and  Earl.5 

The  second  consisted  of  i  carucate  of  land  and  12  acres,  6  plough- 
teams  (reduced  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  to  4  full  teams  and  a  team  of  2 
oxen),  and  4  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  235.  It  was  formerly  held  by  24 
freemen.  Over  all  these  (except  one,  Ulrich,who  was  half  under  commenda- 
tion to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds),  Ulveva  had  commendation.  The  soc 
belonged  to  the  King  and  the  Earl.6 

The  third  estate  consisted  of  26  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  formerly, 
when  held  by  Brictmar  under  commendation  to  Ulveva,  valued  at  55., 
but  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  valued  at  75.  Of  this  the  King  and  the  Earl 
had  the  soc. 

The  fourth  estate  of  Malet's  consisted  of  108  acres,  4  ploughteams 
(reduced  by  the  time  of  the  Survey  to  2),  i  £  acres  of  meadow,  i  rouncy,  i 
beast,  25  hogs,  16  sheep,  and  27  goats,  valued  at  2os.,  the  King  and  the  Earl 
having  the  soc.  This  estate  had  formerly  been  held  by  4  freemen,  and 

1  Dom.  ii.  437&.  « Dom.  ii.  419. 

'Dom.  ii.  370,  3706.  'Dom.  ii.  3206. 

JDom.  ii.  285&.  "Dom.  ii.  3216. 


THORNHAM   MAGNA. 


313 


over  one,  a  half-freeman,  Brungart  by  name,  Walter  de  Dol  was  seised  when 
he  made  forfeiture,  and  over  2j  Ulveva  had  commendation,  and  over  the 
half -freeman  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  had  commendation,  and  over  the 
fourth  Burchard.1 

MANOR  OF  THORNHAM  HALL  al.  BRISEWORTH'S. 

^  This  was  the  estate  of  Leuric,  under  the  protection  of  Bristric  the  bailiff 
of  St.  Edmunds  prior  to  the  Conquest,  and  was  held  by  Isaac  at  the  time  of 
the  Survey. 

By  the  time  of  Edw.  III.  the  manor  was  vested  in  William  de  Brise- 
worth,  and  passed  to  his  daughter  and  heir,  married  to  Simon  Blyant,  whose 
daughter  and  heir  married  Nicholas  Wiseman.  The  manor  from  them 


GREAT  THORNHAM  HALL. 

passed  to  their  son  and  heir,  George  Wiseman,  and  from  him  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Simon  Wiseman,  and  from  him  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John  Wiseman. 

Amongst  the  Star  Chamber  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  King  Hen.  VIII. 
is  an  action  by  Sir  John  Wyseman  against  John  Sherman  and  others  for 
riot  and  assault  at  Swattishall  in  Thornham.1 

There  is  a  second  action  in  the  same  court  and  reign,  said  to  be  as  to 
a  field  in  Thornham  called  "  Swartsawfield "  between  Sir  John  Wyseman 
and  Thomas  Tyrell,  clerk,  and  others,3  and  in  the  same  court  in  1523  we  find 
an  action  by  Thomas  Tyrrell  against  Sir  John  Wiseman  and  others  as  to 
tithes  in  "  Swatteshave  "  Manor  in  Thornham.4  Sir  John  Wiseman  married 
Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  James  Hobart,  and  on  his  death  the  manor 
passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Wiseman,  and  amongst  the  Bodleian 
Charters  we  find  a  quit  claim  dated  soth  Dec.  38  Hen.  VIII.  [1545]  by 
Richard  Frere,  of  Mendham,  and  William  Freston,  citizen  and  grocer,  of 
London,  to  Thomas  Wyseman,  of  all  right  to  rents  and  services  issuing 
out  of  lands  of  the  said  Thomas  in  Thornham  or  elsewhere  in  Suffolk.5 
Thomas  Wiseman  married  Anne,  daughter  of  John  Garneys,  of  Kenton 
Hall,  and  on  his  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  eldest  son,  John  Wiseman. 
He  married  Ellenor,  sister  and  coheir  of  Charles  Cutler,  of  Eye,  and  widow 
of  Francis  Ernley,  of  Eye,  who  afterwards  married  Anthony  Rush,  of  Chap- 
mans. 


1  Dom.  ii.  332. 
"Bundle  23,  206. 
'Bundle   23,   221. 


4  D.K.R.,  49  App.  p.  573.  See,  too, 
Star  Chamber  Proceedings,  Henry 
VIII.  Bundle  31,  123. 

3  Bodl.  Sufi.  Ch.  1377. 


3i4  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

John  Wiseman  had  three  sons  and  two  daughters,  Thomas,  Edward, 
and  Nicholas,  all  of  whom  died  without  issue.1  It  is  true  Davy  makes 
Edward  Wiseman  lord,  and  the  manor  did  apparently  pass  to  Edward 
Wiseman,  and  only  went  to  his  sisters  on  his  death  in  1561.  There  is  a 
chancery  suit  amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Elizabeth 
which  is  seemingly  against  this.  It  is  a  bill  for  partition  between  Philologus 
Forthe  against  Edmund  Buckenham  [Bokenham]  as  to  lands  in  Thornham, 
late  the  estate  of  John  Wiseman,  which  on  his  decease  descended  to  his 
daughters  Barbara  and  Mary,  the  wives  of  the  plaintiff  and  defendant  as 
coparceners,  also  as  to  lands  held  of  the  Manors  of  Brockford  and  Stoke 
Ash  belonging  to  plaintiff  and  claimed  by  defendant.2  But  there  is 
also  amongst  these  Proceedings  an  action  concerning  deeds,  &c.,of  manors, 
lands,  &c.,  in  Great  Thornham,  of  which  Edmund  Wiseman  was  seised. 
It  was  brought  by  Edmund  Buckenham  against  Tasborough  and  others.3 

This  manor  seems  to  have  been  allotted  to  Barbara  and  her  husband, 
Edmund  Bokenham,  and  from  this  time  to  the  death  of  his  grandson,  Wise- 
man Bokenham,  in  1669,  the  manor  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor 
of  Thelnetham,  in  Blackbourn  Hundred.  The  manor  apparently  passed 
on  Wiseman's  death  to  his  son  Paul  Bokenham,  or  at  least  he  claimed  it. 
He  died  in  Oct.  1681,  intestate,  leaving  a  son  Guilford  his  heir,  and  a 
daughter  Jemina,  both  infants,  and  the  said  Guilford  Bokenham  died 
without  issue,  when  the  manor  passed  to  Jemina,  married  to  Charles 
Killigrew.  Jemina  being  only  four  years  old  at  the  time  of  her  father's 
death,  the  administration  of  this  estate  was  granted  to  Anthony  Bokenham 
during  the  infant's  minority,  and  Richard  Bokenham,  her  uncle,  managed 
the  real  estate. 

A  branch  of  the  Killigrew  family  had  settled  here  some  time  previously. 
Robert  Killigrew,  of  Arnenich,  in  Cornwall,  son  of  Thomas  and  Charlotte, 
page  of  honour  to  King  Charles  II.,  Brigadier-General  of  his  Majesty's 
forces,  killed  in  Spain  in  the  battle  of  Almanza,  i4th  April,  1707,  in  the  47th 
year  of  his  age,  was  a  member  of  the  family. 

The  last  representative  of  the  family,  Charles  Killigrew,  grandson  of 
the  above  Robert,  died  a  bachelor,  gth  March,  1756,  and  by  his  will  gave 
the  manor  to  his  godson,  the  Rev.  Charles  Tyrrel,  who  afterwards  succeeded 
to  the  Gipping  estate.  Mr.  Killigrew  was  in  the  habit  of  making  wills 
frequently,  and  every  will  appointed  a  different  heir  ;  he  died  suddenly, 
and  had  sent  a  few  days  before  to  his  lawyer  to  make  another  will. 

Charles  Tyrrel  sold  the  manor  to  Sir  John  Major,  Bart.  He  was  the 
only  surviving  son  of  John  Major,  of  Bridlington,  co.  York,  and  represented 
the  borough  of  Harborough  in  Parliament.  He  was  created  a  baronet  I5th 
July,  1765,  by  the  title  of  Sir  John  Major,  of  Worlingworth  Hall,  in  Suffolk, 
Bart.,  the  limitation  being  to  his  heirs  male,  and  in  default  of  such  issue 
to  his  son-in-law,  John  Henniker,  of  Newton  Hall,  in  Essex,  and  his  male 
heirs.  He  accompanied  Captain  Anson  in  his  voyage  round  the  world. 
Sir  John  married  Elizabeth,  only  daughter  of  Daniel  Dale,  of  Bridlington, 
by  whom  he  had  issue  two  daughters,  Anne  and  Elizabeth.  The  latter 
married  in  1767,  Henry  Bridges,  2nd  Duke  of  Chandos,  and  Anne,  the  eldest 
daughter  and  coheir,  married  24th  Feb.  1747,  John,  son  of  John  Henniker, 
an  eminent  Russian  merchant  of  London,  and  of  Westham,  co.  Essex, 
and  upon  the  decease  of  Sir  John  Major,  i6th  Feb.  1781,  his  title  and  a 
moiety  of  his  estate,  including  this  manor,  passed  to  his  said  son-in-law. 

« See  Manor  of  Swatshall  Hall,  in  Gisling-         *  C.P.  i.  288,  289. 
ham,  in  this  Hundred.  3  C.P.  i.  53. 


THORNHAM    MAGNA.  315 

Sir  John  Henniker,  Bart.,  was  elevated  to  the  peerage  of  Ireland,  as 
Baron  Henniker,  of  Stratford-upon-Slaney,  3ist  July,  1800,  and  dying 
i8th  Apl.  1803,'  was  succeeded  by  his  eldest  son,  John  Henniker-Major,  as 
2nd  Baron. 

He  was  a  well-known  antiquary,  a  barrister-at-law,  and  a  prominent 
member  of  many  literary  societies.  By  royal  licence  loth  Aug.  1792,  he 
took  the  name  of  Major  after  that  of  Henniker,  in  compliance  with  the 
will  of  his  maternal  grandfather.  He  was  M.P.  for  Romney  1785-90,  for 
Steyning  1794-1802,  for  Rutland  1805-12,  and  for  Stamford  1812-18.  He 
married  27th  Apr.  1791,  Emily,  daughter  of  Robert  Jones,  of  Duffryn,  co. 
Glamorgan. 

The  day  on  which  George  III.  completed  the  soth  year  of  his  reign 
was  celebrated  in  this  parish  by  Lord  Henniker  with  that  characteristic 
loyalty  and  munificence  which  so  constantly  marked  his  lordship's  con- 
duct. The  most  prominent  festivity  of  the  day  was  an  ox  roasted  whole, 
and  afterwards  distributed  to  the  populace,  in  the  presence  of  the  Duchess 
of  Chandos,  Lord  and  Lady  Henniker,  and  other  members  of  that  family. 
The  number  of  people  assembled  to  witness  this  display  of  British  hospitality 
was  estimated  at  between  four  and  five  thousand,  on  Oct.  25th,  1810.  His 
lordship  died  without  issue  5th  Dec.  1821, *  when  the  manor  passed  to  his 
nephew,  John  Minet  Henniker,  3rd  Baron,  son  and  heir  of  Major  Henniker, 
merchant,  of  London,  and  of  Streatham,  co.  Surrey,  by  Mary,  daughter  of 
John  Phoenix,  of  Rochester,  which  Major  was  2nd  son  of  the  ist  lord. 

He  married  ist  Jan.  1799,  Mary,  eldest  daughter  of  the  Rev.  William 
Chafy,  minor  canon  of  Canterbury.  He  assumed  by  royal  licence  27th 
May,  1822,  the  additional  surname  of  Major,  and  died  22nd  July,  1832,' 
when  he  was  succeeded  by  his  eldest  son,  John  Henniker-Major,  as  4th 
Baron,  who  married  5th  Jan.  1837,  Anna,  eldest  daughterof  Lieut. -General 
Sir  Edward  Kerrison,  ist  Bart.,  K.C.B.  and  G.C.H.,  of  Oakley  and  Brome. 

The  4th  Baron  represented  East  Suffolk  in  Parliament  1832  to  1847, 
and  was  High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk  in  1853!.  He  was  created  Baron  Hartis- 
mere,of  Hartismere,co.  Suffolk,  in  the  peerage  of  the  United  Kingdom, I3th 
July,  1866.  His  lordship  died  i6th  April,  1870,  when  the  manor  passed 
to  his  eldest  son,  Sir  John  Major  Henniker-Major,  5th  Baron  Henniker, 
M.P.  for  East  Suffolk,  1866-1870.  He  was  lord-in-waiting  to  the  Queen  in 
1877  to  1880-1885,  and  from  1886  to  1893,  reappointed  1895.  In  October, 
1895,  he  was  appointed  Governor  of  the  Isle  of  Man,  Knight  of  Justice  of 
the  Order  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem.  He  married  I4th  Jan.  1864,  at  West- 
minster Abbey,  Alice  Mary,  only  daughter  of  John  Otway  O'Connor  Cuffe, 
3rd  Earl  of  Desart,  and  died  27th  June,  1902,  when  he  was  succeeded  by  his 
eldest  surviving  son,  Sir  Charles  Henry  Chandos  Henniker-Major,  6th 
Baron,  3rd  Baron  Hartismere,  who  is  the  present  lord. 

Arms  of  BOKENHAM  :  Argent ;  a  lion  rampant,  Gules ;  over  all,  a 
bendlet,  Azure,  charged  with  three  bezants.  Of  KILLIGREW  :  Argent ; 
an  eagle  displayed,  Sable,  within  a  bordure  of  the  second  Bezantee.  Of 
MAJOR:  Azure,  3  columns  of  the  Corinthian  Order  2  and  i,  on  the  top  of 
each  a  ball,  Or.  Of  HENNIKER  :  Or,  on  a  chevron  Gules  between  2  crescents 
in  chief,  and  in  base  an  escallop  Azure,  3  estoils  Argent. 

Thornham  Hall  is  a  Tudor  mansion,  consisting  of  a  central  block 
with  wings,  but  has  been  altered,  and  additions  have  been  made  to  it 

1  Will  proved  1803.  3  Will  proved  Aug.  1832. 

"Will  proved  1822. 


3i6  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

from  time  to  time.  Both  the  4th  and  5th  Barons  made  additions,  but 
part  of  the  old  house  remains  untouched.  It  is  probable  that 
Elizabeth  slept  here  in  one  of  her  progresses  through  East  Anglia, 
as  it  is  said  "  she  lay  at  Thornham."  Charles  II.  also  spent  a  night  or 
more  here.  The  hangings  of  the  bed  in  which  he  is  said  to  have  slept  are 
still  to  be  seen,  in  Thornham  Hall,  and  with  the  chair  coverings  in  the 
apartment,  are  of  linen  ornamented  with  beautiful  old  crewel  work.  The 
portion  of  the  mansion  erected  by  the  4th  Baron  is  built  of  white  bricks, 
made  on  the  estate,  and  in  style  resembles  an  old  French  chateau. 

The  park  is  between  300  and  400  acres  in  extent,  and  the  gardens 
cover  about  25  acres. 

MANOR  OF  THORNHAM. 

This  was  the  inheritance  of  Robert  Malet  at  the  time  of  the  Domesday 
Survey,  and  he  by  his  charter  of  foundation  conferred  the  same  on  the 
Priory  of  Eye,  and  in  1275  the  prior  had  view  of  frankpledge 
here,  in  1396  having  free  warren  also  confirmed  to  him.' 

The  manor  went  on  the  Dissolution  to  the  Crown,  and  was  granted 
by  Hen.  VIII.  in  1536  to  Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk.  It  returned 
to  the  Crown  subsequently,  and  was  granted  in  1566  to  Edmund,  Lord 
Clinton  and  Saye,  and  Leonard  Irby,  and  the  same  year  they  had  licence  to 
alien  to  Nicholas  Mirnno  and  Henry  Golding,  who  the  following  year  had 
licence  to  alien  to  Thomas  Gawdy,  of  Redenhall,  and  others.  It  seems 
again  to  have  returned  to  the  Crown  for  in  1584  the  Queen  leased  it  to 
Ralph  Bomes  for  40  years.  However,  a  little  later  we  find  the  manor  in 
Thomas  Butts,  for  he  had  licence  to  alien  it  in  1592  to  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon. 
In  1597  the  manor  was  granted  to  John  Athowe  and  Henry  Becke,  after 
which  it  disappears. 

MANOR  OF  HEMENHALL,  or  HEMENHALES. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  Sir  Ralph  de  Hemenhale  at  the  beginning  of 
the  I4th  century.'  He  died  in  1329,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
John  de  Heminghale,  who  died  in  1347,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
Sir  Ralph  Heminghale,  who  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here  in  1367. 3 
He  married  Katherine,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Sir  John  de  Aspal,  and  died 
in  I370,4  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Robert,  who  married 
Joan,  daughter  and  heir  of  John  de  la  Pole,  and  dying  before  1406  the 
manor  vested  in  John  or  William  de  Heminghale,  an  idiot,  who  was  dead 
by  1419,  when  the  manor  was  vested  in  his  cousin  and  heir,  Sir  Ralph 
Heminghale.  He  was  son  of  Thomas,  a  brother  of  the  Sir  Robert  who 
died  before  1406. 

In  1435  a  fine  was  levied  of  this  manor  by  Sir  John  Tirell  and  Katherine 
his  wife,  Sir  William  Phylyp,  Sir  John  Clyfton,  Sir  John  Hevenyngham, 
Edward  Tirell,  William  Rokwode,  Robert  Asshefeld,  Richard  Doget,  Thomas 
Sengleton,  John  Pyrye,  and  Gregory  Wery,  clerk,  against  Roger  Felice  and 
Margaret  his  wife.3 

Arms  of  HEMENHALE  :  Or,  on  a  fesse,  between  two  chevronels,  Gules, 
three  escallops,  Argent. 


'Chart.  Rolls,  20  Rich.  II.  4.  4See    Manor    of     Cotton    Hempnall    or 
*  He  was  the  son  of  Ralph,  son  of  Sir  Ralph  Caldecott,  in  Cotton,  in  this  Hun- 

de  Hemenhale.  died. 

•Chart.  Rolls,  41  Edw.  III.  2.  5Feet  of  Fines,  13  Hen.  VI.  21. 


THORNHAM   PARVA.  317 

THORNHAM  PARVA. 

IMONG  the  lands  of  Robert  Malet  were  several  holdings. 
One  was  of  7  acres,  valued  at  i6d.  It  was  formerly  held  by 
Robert  Malet' s  mother  over  2  freemen  under  Edric  by  sub- 
commendation.  Another  consisted  of  28  acres  and  2  plough- 
teams  (reduced  to  i£  at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  valued  at 
5s.  It  was  formerly  held  by  8  freemen  under  commenda- 
tion to  Ulveva.  In  the  same  township  was  a  holding  of  15 
acres,  and  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  40^.,  increased  at  the  time  of  the  Survey 
to  55.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  2  freemen,  one  under  commendation 
to  Ulveva  and  the  other  half  under  sub-commendation  to  Malet's 
predecessor. 

In  the  same  township  was  a  holding  of  14  acres  and  a  ploughteam 
(reduced  to  half  at  the  time  of  the  Survey).  It  was  formerly  valued  at  35., 
increased  to  45.  at  the  time  of  the  Survey.  It  had  been  held  by  Siric,  a  free- 
man under  commendation  to  Ulveva. 

Also  here  were  three  parts  of  a  church,  with  10  acres  and  half  a  plough- 
team.  The  soc  of  all  this  belonged  to  the  King  and  Earl.1 

MANOR  OF  WOODHOUSE. 

This  seems  to  have  been  the  lordship  of  the  parish  of  Thornham  Parva, 
and  was  held  in  the  middle  of  the  I4th  century  by  Richard  del  Chirche, 
and  was  included  in  the  conveyance  of  1391  to  Sir  William  Burgate,  John 
Huberd,  and  others  as  trustees,  mentioned  in  the  account  of  the  Manor 
of  Swatshall  Hall,  in  Gislingham,  and  the  deed  of  2nd  Feb.  14  Rich.  II.,3 
and  passed  in  the  same  way  with  that  manor  until  it  vested  in  Edmund 
Bokenham  by  his  marriage  with  Barbara,  sister  and  coheir  of  Edmund 
Wiseman,  who  died  in  1561,  from  which  time  it  has  devolved  in  the  same 
course  as  the  Manor  of  Thornham  Hall. 

There  are  conveyances  of  this  manor  amongst  the  Harleian  Charters  in 
the  British  Museum  as  follows  :  1391,  Harl.  47  E.  13;  48  A.  43;  1410,  Harl. 
50,  K.  2  ;  1412,  Harl.  51  E.  52  ;  1417,  Harl.  51  E.  52  ;  1417,  Harl.  51  E. 
55  ;  Cott.  xxvii.  208  ;  and  a  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  in  1586  by  Isaac 
Preston  against  Edmund  Bokenham  and  others.3 


'  Dom.  ii.  3206,  3226.  3  Fine,  Hil.  28  Eli*. 

'Harl.  48  A  43;  47  E  13. 


3i8  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

THRANDESTON. 

WO  manors  were  held  here  in  Saxon  times.    The  first  was 
that  of  Anselm,  held  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds,  and 
consisted  of  2  carucates  of  land,  6  bordars,  2  ploughteams 
in  demesne    and  i  belonging  to  the  men,  and  8  acres  of 
meadow.    Of  live  stock  there  were  2  rouncies,  2  beasts,  12 
hogs,  55  sheep.     Also  here  12  freemen  and  a  half  held  42 
acres,  having  the  power  to  sell. 
There  was  also  a  church,  with  8  acres,  valued  at  i6d.,  also  3  ploughteams, 
wood  sufficient  to  support  4  hogs,  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  405. 
(which  value  had  increased  to  6os.  at  the  time  of  the  Survey). 

This  manor  belonged  to  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds,  he  having 
the  soc  and  commendation.  It  was  8  quarentenes  long  and  7  broad,  and 
paid  in  a  gelt  Sd.1 

The  second  manor  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  was  held  of  Robert  Malet 
by  Halward  (?)  and  consisted  of  36  acres,  i  ploughteam  (reduced  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey  to  a  team  of  2  oxen),  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  55. 
The  soc  belonged  to  the  King  and  Earl.  It  had  belonged  at  the  time  of 
the  Confessor  to  Hayward  (?)  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Edric.  In 
the  same  township  held  by  Walter  of  Robert  Malet,  was  an  estate  of  15 
acres  and  half  a  ploughteam,  in  the  soc  of  the  King  and  Earl,  valued  at 
26d.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  2  freemen,  Goodrich  and  Lestan,  under 
commendation  to  Edric. 

Walter  also  held  two  villeins,  with  24  acres  out  of  the  Eye  demesne, 
valued  at  45. 

Robert  Malet  had  several  other  holdings  in  this  place.  One  consisted 
of  16  acres,  valued  at  2s.,  held  of  him  by  William  Gulafra.  There  was 
also  a  church,  with  6  acres,  valued  at  i2d.  This  estate  had  formerly  been 
held  by  Godman,  a  freeman. 

Another  was  held  of  him  by  William  de  Caen,  and  consisted  of  5  acres, 
valued  at  I2d.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  Earl.  This  had  formerly 
been  held  by  a  freeman  under  commendation  to  Edric. 

Another  estate  consisted  of  9  acres,  valued  at  I2d.,  held  of  Robert 
Malet  by  Hugh.5 

Belonging  to  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  was  a  small  holding 
in  this  place,  consisting  of  3  acres,  valued  at  6d.,  formerly  that  of  Uluric, 
by  commendation.3 

Among  the  lands  of  Ralph  de  Felgeriswas  a  holding  of  6  acres,  valued  at 

I2d.4 

There  was  also  mentioned  without  land,  a  holding  of  Aubrey  de  Vere,  of 
2  freemen,  Fulcard  and  Alwin.5 

MANOR  OF  THRANDESTON- WOODHALL. 

This  was  the  estate  of  Hayward,  a  freeman  under  the  protection  of 
Edric,  in  the  time  of  Edward  the  Confessor,  and  was  held  by  Robert 
Malet  in  the  time  of  the  Conqueror. 

In  1234  John  de  Dagworth  seems  to  have  had  the  lordship,  Osbert  de 
Dagworth  having  a  grant  of  free  warren  herein  1253.'  He  is  mentioned  in 

1  Dom.  ii.  371.  4  Dom.  ii.  4326. 

'Dom.  ii.  310,  3206.  5Dom.  ii.  419. 

'Dom.  ii.  371.  •  Chart.  Rolls,  37-38  Hen.  III.  pt.  i.  I. 


THRANDESTON.  319 

the  Testa  de  Nevill  as  holding  a  knight's  fee  here  of  the   abbey  of  Bury.1 
He  died  before  1262." 

In  1316  Sir  JohnDagworth  held  the  lordship,  and  it  probably  descended 
in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Dagworth,  in  Stow  Hundred,  for  two  or 
three  generations.  The  manor  is  specifically  mentioned  in  the  inquisition 
p.m.,  of  Nicholas  Dagworth,  who  died  in  1351. 3  His  son  and  heir,  Sir 
John  Dagworth,  in  1353  enfeoffed  Thomas,  Bishop  of  Durham  and  others.4 
and  in  1356  the  manor  appears  to  have  passed  from  the  Dagworths,  a  fine 
being  levied  of  both  manor  and  advowson  by  Edmund  de  Paston,  of  St. 
Edmunds,  against  Sir  John  Dagworth.5 

Again,  in  1381,  we  find  another  fine,  both  of  manor  and  advowson, 
levied  by  Sir  William  Wynkefeld,  John  Bacon,  and  John  Aleyn,  chaplain, 
against  Edmund  de  Paston,  of  St.  Edmunds.6 

At  the  end  of  the  I5th  century  we  find  the  manor  vested  in  Thomas 
Cornwallis,  and  from  him  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  Cornwallis, 
who  "died  without  issue  in  1506,  after  which  the  devolution  is  the  same  as 
that  of  Lings  Hall  and  Brome  Hall,  in  Brome,7  and  it  is  now  vested  in 
Lady  Bateman,  of  Brome  Hall. 

The  manor  is  specifically  referred  to  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Edward 
Cornwallis,  who  died  3rd  September,  1510,  leaving  William,  his  brother 
and  heir.8 

MANOR  OF  WELHOLME'S. 

In  1507  Margaret  Woodhall  died  seised  of  this  manor,  when  it  passed  to 
her  son  and  heir,  Richard  Woodhall.  It  seems  then  to  have  gone  in  fourths, 
and  we  find  four  fines  levied  of  the  manor  between  1546  and  1550.  The 
first  was  by  Robert  Kene  against  Robert  Berkeley,9  the  second  was  by 
Robert  Kene  against  Richard  Breyne,  and  others,10  the  third  was  by  John 
Lane  against  Richard  Poderych,"  the  fourth  was  in  1550  by  Robert  Kene 
against  Anne  Reyner,  widow.12 

The  manor,  according  to  Davy,  subsequently  vested  in  Edmund 
Bedingfield,  and  from  him  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Thomas  Bedingfield, 
who  died  in  1590,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Henry  Bedingfield; 
but  Davy  also  more  correctly  makes  Robert  Keene,  of  Thrandeston,  lord, 
and  states  that  in  1558  and  in  another  place  that  he  died  in  1565. '3  The 
manor  then,  Davy  states,  passed  to  Robert's  son  and  heir,  John  Keene. 
This  may  be  so,  but  in  1590  Thomas  Keene  would  appear  to  have  had 
the  lordship,  for  this  year  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  the  manor  against 
him  by  William  Duncan'4 ;  and  seven  years  later  another  fine  levied  against 
the  said  Thomas  Keene  by  W.  Kellam.'5  John  Keene  was  dead  by  1593. 

By  the  opening  of  the  i7th  century,  the  manor  had  vested  in  the 
Smith  family.16  Richard  Smith,  of  Carlton  Road,  Norfolk,  5th  son  of 
Richard  Smith,  of  Bacton,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  daughter  of  John 

1 T.  de  N.  291.  '°  Fine,  Mich,  i  Edw.  VI. 

1  See  Manor  of  Dagworth,in  Stow  Hundred.  JI  Fine,  Easter,  I  Edw.  VI. 

3  Extent.    I.P.M.  25  Edw.  III.  33.  "  Fine,  Easter,  4  Edw.  VI. 

4 1.P.M.,  27  Edw.  III.  2nd  nos.  17.  -3 1.P.M.,  7  and  8  Eliz.  D.K.R.  10  App.  ii. 

'Feet  of  Fines,  30  Edw.  III.  37.  p.  132. 

6  Feet  of  Fines,  5  Rich.  II.  7.  ^  Fine,  Easter,  32  Eliz. 

f  Refer  also  to  the  Manor  of  Culford,  in  "  Fine,  Mich.  39-40  Eliz. 

Blackbourn  Hundred.  l6As  to  this  family,  see  E.  A.  (N.  S.)  iv. 
s  I.P.M.,  2  Hen.  VIII.  15,  31,  360.  380. 

9  Fine,  Hil.  38  Hen.  VIII. 


3ao  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Chester  (alias  Cressy),  of  Royston,  and  a  sister  of  Sir  Robert  Chester,  Knt. 
He  was  for  50  years  Philiser  for  the  county  of  Norfolk  in  the  Court  of 
Common  Pleas.  His  will  is  dated  8th  Dec.  1621,  and  it  was  proved  7th 
January,  1621-2.  He  died  gth  Dec.  1621, and  and  was  buried  in  St. Botolph's, 
within  Aldgate.  He  married  Elizabeth,  sole  daughter  and  heir  of  John 
Longe,  of  Livermere,  and  on  his  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
John  Smith,  who  married  Philippa,  daughter  of  William  Smith,  of  Thel- 
netham,  and  died  without  issue. 

We  next  find  Thomas  Smyth,  of  Thrandeston,  holding.  He  was  the 
son  of  Richard  Smith,  of  Thrandeston,  by  his  2nd  wife,  Eleanor,  daughter 
of  John  Braham,  of  Campsea  Ash,  which  Richard  was  the  son  of  Thomas 
Smith,  of  Thrandeston,  the  brother  of  the  last-mentioned  lord,  John  Smith, 
who  died  in  1621,  by  Margaret  his  wife,  daughter  of  John  Cooke,  of 
Pakenham. 

This  Thomas  Smith  married  Mary  Everard,  and  had  two  daughters 
only — Mary,  married  to  Sir  James  Reynolds,  Lord  Chief  Baron  of  the 
Exchequer,  and  had  an  only  child  Mary,  who  died  May  26th,  1726,  her 
mother  dying  i8th  July,  1736 ;  and  Eleanor,  married  to  Edward  Frere,  of 
Finningham  and  Thwaite  Hall.  She  died  28th  Sept.  1763,  and  he  on  6th 
May,  1766,  when  the  manor  vested  in  their  son  and  heir,  Sheppard  Frere. 
From  this  time  the  manor  has  devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of 
Finningham  Hall,  in  Finningham,  in  this  Hundred. 

Arms  of  KEENE  or  KENE:  Az.  a  talbot  passant  Or,  on  a  chief 
dancette  Arg.,  3  cross  crosslets  Sa. ;  (or)  Or,  a  chevron  engrailed  Gu. 
betw.  3  cinquefoils  Az.  on  a  chief  of  the  2nd  a  lion  passant  guardant,  Arg. 

MANOR  OF  MAVESON'S. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  Peter  Mauveisyn  in  1316,  and  nearly  200  years 
later  was  held  by  John  Herbert  al.  Yaxley,  of  Yaxley,  who  died  seised  of  it 
in  1505,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Anthony  Yaxley,  who  died  in 
1568-9,  when  it  vested  in  his  grandson,  William  Yaxley,  son  of  Richard, 
son  of  Anthony. 

William  Yaxley  died  in  1588,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  Henry  Yaxley.' 

In  1688  we  find  from  the  Exchequer  Depositions  taken  at  Diss,  in  an 
action  between  Margaret  Yaxley  and  John  Reynolds,  that  this  manor  lately 
belonged  to  Henry  Yaxley,  and  Margaret  Yaxley  claimed  for  2s.  2d.  for 
defendant's  lands,  on  the  ground  that  they  were  parcel  of  the  manor  of 
"Mavisons."'  Subsequently  the  manor  vested  in  Charles,  ist  Marquis 
Cornwallis,  who  died  in  1805,  from  which  time  the  manor  has  passed  in 
the  same  course  as  the  main  Manor  of  Thrandeston. 

MANOR  OF  GOSSOLD'S  OR  GOSHOLD'S  OR  GOSWOALD'S. 

This  manor  was  granted  by  William  the  Conqueror  to  Walter  D'Bowyer, 
and  was  subsequently  the  lordship  of  Roger  de  Goshold,  and  seems  to  have 
been  held  in  the  reign  of  Hen.  VI.  by  Peter  Harfye,  who  had  here  the  third 
part  of  a  fee,  which  passed  on  his  death  in  1463  to  his  son  and  heir,  Peter 
Harfie,  and  from  him  to  his  daughter,  who  married  Richard  Grey,  of  Gosnold. 

The  next  holder  was  Thomas  Grey,  of  Thrandeston,  second  son  of  John, 
and  amongst  the  Star  Chamber  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Hen.  VIII.  is  an 
action  between  him  and  Sir  John  Cornwallis  respecting  a  forcible  dispute 

'See  Yaxley  Manor,  in  this  Hundred.  *Exch.  Dep.  at  Diss,  4  Jac.  II. 


THRANDESTON.  321 

as  to  a  watercourse,  &c.,  at  Thrandeston.'  Thomas  Grey  married  Anne 
Plumstead,  and  his  youngest  son  Roger  held  the  manor  in  1585,  and  the 
following  year  a  fine  of  the  manor  was  levied  against  him  by  Francis  Sher- 
man.2 Roger  married  Margery,  daughter  of  Thomas  Billingford,  of  Blackford 
Hall,  co.  Norfolk,  and  died  in  1609,  when  he  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and 
heir,  John  Grey  ;  he  married  at  Eye,  iyth  July,  1606,  Mary,  daughter  of 
Edward  Hornings,  of  Carlton,  and  on  his  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Edward  Grey,  and  from  him  to  his  brother,  Timothy  Grey,  whose 
daughter  Frances  married  John  Rix.  Thomas  Rix,  of  "  Goswoald"  Hall,  died 
seised  of  the  manor  in  1776,  and  his  heir  carried  the  manor  into  the  Blakely 
family,  and  we  find  John  Rix  Blakely,  of  Goswoald  Hall,  died  lord  in  1810. 

In  1820  the  manor  was  sold  to  Thomas  French,  of  Eye. 
Goswold  Hall  is  an  ancient  moat-house  in  the  village. 

Arms  of  GREY  :  Gu.,  a  lion  ramp.  Erm.  double  queeued  within  a 
border  engrailed  Arg.  Of  Rix  :  Az.,  a  fesse  betw.  2  unicorns'  heads  erased 
in  chief,  and  a  cross  pattee  in  base  all  Or. 

MANOR  OF  AMPNER'S. 

In  1609  this  manor  was  vested  in  Sir  William  Cornwallis,  who  died 
in  1613,  from  which  time  it  has  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  main 
Manor  of  Thrandeston. 


1  Star  C.P.  Hen.  VIII.  vol.  xvi.  199-202.  2  Fine,  Mich.  28-29  Eliz- 

RI 


THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

MANOR  OF  THWAITE. 

O  mention  is  made  of  this  place  in  the  Domesday  Survey. 
In  1316  the  manor  was  vested  in  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds, 
and  seems  to  have  continued  with  the  monastery  until 
the  dissolution  of  the  religious  houses,  when  it  passed  to 
the  Crown.  It  was  granted  to  Anne  of  Cleves  as  part  of 
her  dower,  and  she  presented  to  the  living  in  1557.  The 
manor  for  several  descents  was  held  by  the  family  of 
Wright  al.  Reeve.' 

In  the  Star  Chamber  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  King  Edward  VI.  we 
find  an  action  by  John  Wryght  al.  Reve  against  Robert  Gyldensleve  and 
others  as  to  the  felling  of  trees  at  Thwaite,1  and  in  the  Chancery  Proceedings 
in  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  is  an  action  by  Thomas  Reve  against  Adam 
Cossett  al.  Turner,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  to  recover  lands  in  Thwaite, 
which  plaintiff  claimed  as  his  inheritance,  and  which  defendant  claimed  in 
right  of  his  wife  Elizabeth.3  The  family  of  Reeve  resided  at  Thwaite 
Hall.  Page4  says:  "Edward  Wright  (alias  Ryve)  married  Margaret, 
daughter  of  Edward  Singleton, of  Mendlesham,and  was  succeeded  by  John, 
his  only  son,  who  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  John  Rokewood,  of 
Coldham  Hall,  in  the  parish  of  Stanningfield,  in  this  county.  George  Reeve, 
Esq.,  their  eldest  son  and  heir,  was  created  a  baronet  in  1662-3."'  This 
does  not  agree  with  that  most  careful  and  accurate  genealogist,  "  G.  E.  C.," 
the  author  of  the  Complete  Baronetage.  He  stated  that  Sir  George  Reeve, 
of  Thwayte,  created  a  baronet  22nd  Jan.  1662-3,  was  the  2nd,  but  ist  sur- 
viving son  and  heir  of  Robert  Reeve  or  Reve  by  Mary,  sister  of  Sir  Everard 
Digby ;  also  that  he  was  M.P.  for  Eye  1660  and  1661  till  death.  Mr. 
Richard  W.  Read  Reeve,  of  Wisbech,  has  kindly  pointed  out  that 
Foss,  in  his  "Judges  of  England,"  citing  from  Phillips'  "Grandeur  of  the 
Law,"  1684,  p.  87,  states  that  Sir  George  Reeve,  of  Thwaite, 
was  descended  from  Sir  Edmund  Reve,  of  Long  Stratton.  Sir  George 
"  Reve  "  is  mentioned  in  the  State  Papers  in  the  Cal.  of  Compounders 
in  1653 .'  In  1671  a  writ  was  issued  to  John  Clarke,  Sheriff  of  Suffolk,  for 
inquisition  ad  quod  damnum,  if  franchise  of  holding  two  markets  or  fairs  a 
year  at  Thwaite  were  granted  to  Sir  George  Reeve,7  and  the  following 
year  he  requested  an  advertisement  to  be  inserted  in  the  Gazette  as  to  the 
holding  of  a  fair  at  Thwaite.8  He  married  ist  Anne,  daughter  of  Robert 
Bacon  and  sister  of  Sir  Edmund  Bacon,  4th  Bart.,  of  Redgrave,  and  2ndly 
in  1660  Anne,  daughter  of  Ambrose  Copinger,  of  Buxhall  and  Lavenham, 
and  widow  of  Stephen  Soame,  of  Little  Thurlow,  and  of  Isaac  Creame.  He 
died  in  Oct.  1678,'  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Robert 
Reeve,  2nd  Bart.  He  was  M.P.  for  Eye,  Nov.  1675  to  1679  and  1679  to 
1681,  and  married  Mary,  daughter  of  Sir  Arthur  Onslow,  ist  Bart.,  of  West 
Clandon,  in  Surrey,  and  sister  of  Richard,  ist  Baron  Onslow,  but  died 
without  male  issue  igth  Aug.  i688,'°at  the  early  age  of  36  years,  when  the 
title  became  extinct,  and  the  manor  devolved  on  his  daughter  and  coheir 
Anne,  who  married,  ist  the  Right  Honourable  Philip  Sydney,  5th  Earl  of 

'As  to  this  family, see  N.  and  Q., 6th  ser.         6S.P.,  Cal.  of  Comp.  1653,  p.  3079. 

viii.  429,  477.  ?  State  Papers,  1671,  p.  385. 

'Star  C.P.  Edw.  VI.  Bundle  7,  102.  "S.P.  1672,  p.  469. 

JC.P.  ii.  377.  9  Will  proved  1679. 

4  History  of  Suffolk,  p.  493.  «°  Will  proved  Oct.  1688. 

'The   warrant    for  the   creation  will  be 

found  amongst  the  State  Papers  in 

1662.     (S.P.  1662,  p.  573.) 


THWAITE.  323 

Leicester,  and  2ndly,  John  Sheppard,  by  whom  she  had  no  issue.  By  her 
i  st  husband  the  Countess  had  issue  two  children,  who  both  died  in  infancy. 
She  died  i^th  April,  1726,  and  was  interred  in  the  chancel  of  the  parish 
church  of  Thrandeston.  Her  2nd  husband,  John  Sheppard  succeeded  her. 
He  had  served  the  office  of  High  Sheriff  for  the  county  in  1704,  and  again 
in  1714,  and  presented  to  the  rectory  in  1722.  He  married  2ndly  Hannah 
Wilmot,  by  whom  he  had  no  issue,  and  dying  in  1747  was  interred  in  Mendle- 
sham  church. 

The  manor  passed  to  his  widow  Hannah,  who,  the  year  following  her 
first  husband's  death,  married  Sir  Samuel  Pryme,  of  whom  Cole  in  his 
"Athenae  Cantabrigiensis,"  thus  remarks:  "He  was  educated  at  St.  John's 
College,  born  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  son  of  a  tallow  chandler.  He  flung  up 
his  profession  in  disgust  that  Lord  Camden  was  put  over  his  head,  and 
married  the  widow  Sheppard,  of  Suffolk,  with  a  jointure  of  £1,800  a  year, 
the  daughter  of  Mr.  Wilmot,  of  Bunstead,  an  heiress  of  £20,000.  He 
bought  the  estate  at  Whitton,  in  Twickenham,  Middlesex,  formerly  Sir 
Godfrey  Kneller's,  and  died  at  Whitton,  24th  Feb.  1776,  leaving  a  son 
formerly  of  St.  John's  College,  to  whom  he  bequeathed  £70,000."  Sir  Samuel 
never  proceeded  to  a  degree.  In  1736  he  was  made  a  serjeant-at-law,  and  in 
1757  King's  serjeant.  In  1775  he  presented,  with  his  lady,  to  this  rectory. 

Miss  Hawkins,  in  the  first  volume  of  her  "  Anecdotes,  Biographical 
Sketches,  and  Memoirs,"  gives  an  interesting  characteristic  of  Sir  Samuel 
and  his  lady.  The  former  is  much  too  long  for  reprinting ;  we  cannot, 
however,  resist  transcribing  the  latter. 

"  Lady  Pryme  I  must  sketch.  There  are  portraits  remaining  of  her 
which  show  her  to  have  been  what  was  called  a  prodigiously  fine  woman. 
Lady  Pryme's  remains  were  on  a  grand  scale,  but  tempered  to  the  observer 
by  every  evidence  of  good  nature.  Her  first  husband  had  been  a  Suffolk 
gentleman  of  large  property  ;  and  I  have  heard  her  speak,  with  a  recollection 
as  melancholy  as  her  buoyant  spirits  could  admit,  of  the  time  when  she 
inhabited  the  since  dilapidated  mansion  of  Thwaite  Hall.  She  talked 
with  a  true  relish  of  the  one  o'clock  dinners,  and  nine  o'clock  suppers.  I  am 
sorry  I  can  recollect  very  little  of  the  many  terms  in  which  she  was  wont 
to  describe  the  soil  of  that  part  of  Suffolk  which  she  inhabited,  and  which, 
I  believe,  though  no  inhabitants  will  confess  themselves  to  live  in  High 
Suffolk,  though  they  may  be  near  it,  is  literally  in  that  disavowed  portion 
of  a  county,  the  beauties  of  which  are  not  sufficiently  known.  Speaking  of 
her  equestrian  prowess,  she  described  the  clay  to  be  of  such  a  nature 
that  her  horse  succeeding  in  getting  his  foot  out  of  it  resembled  the  drawiag 
of  a  cork  out  of  a  bottle  ;  and  that  when  she  could  compel  him  into  a  trot 
it  made  the  very  swamp  roar." 

Sir  Samuel  died  in  1776,  and  in  1792  Lady  Pryme  again  presented  to 
this  rectory,  by  which  it  appears  this  estate  was  held  as  a  part  of  her  dower.1 
It  afterwards  passed  toabranchof  the  Sheppard  family, seated  at  Wethering- 
sett,  with  the  Campsey  Ash  estate. 

John  Sheppard,  of  Campsey  Ash,  held  the  lordship,  and  on  his  death 
in  1793  it  passed  in  the  same  course  as  the  manor  of  Brockford  Hall,  in 
this  Hundred,  to  John  George  Sheppard,  who  held  the  lordship  in  1855. 

Arms  of  REEVE  :  Sable,  on  a  chevron  between  three  fleurs-de-lis  Or,  as 
many  spears'  heads/  Azure.  Edmundson  in  his  Alphabet,  makes  the 
charges  on  the  chevron  "  cronels  of  spears." 

'See  Manor   of   Brockford    Hall,   in  Brockford        * Guillim  says  " pheons." 
with  Wetheringsett,  in  this  Hundred. 


324  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

WESTHORPE. 

JHERE  was  one  manor  in  this  place  in  Saxon  times  held  by 
Ulric  Hagana,  consisting  of  a  carucate  of  land,  i  bordar, 
i  serf,  ij  ploughteams  in  demesne,  wood  to  support  12 
hogs,  6  acres  of  meadow,  3  rouncies,  2  beasts,  31  hogs,  50 
sheep,  15  goats,  and  5  hives  oi  bees,  valued  at  2os.  (increased 
to  305.  at  the  time  of  the  Survey.) 

It  belonged  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  to  Eudo,  son  of 
Spiruic,  and  was  held  by  Geoffrey.  And  15  freemen  here,  under  Ulric's 
commendation,  held  33  acres,  i  ploughteam,  wood  for  the  support  of  2 
hogs,  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  los.  The  Survey  states  further  : 
"  Over  this  manor  St.  Edmund  had  in  King  Edward's  time  soc  and  sac 
and  commendation  ;  and  (Ulric)  could  not  sell  or  give  it  away  from  the 
church  ;  and  over  the  15  freemen  and  over  Ulric  (?)  Robert  Malet's  prede- 
cessor had  commendation,  witness  the  Hundred,  and  (Ulric)  (?)  could  not 
sell  or  give  his  land  away  from  him."' 

Among  the  lands  of  Robert  Malet  were  several  holdings  in  this  place. 
One  was  held  of  him  by  Hubert,  and  consisted  of  42  acres,  3  bordars,  I 
ploughteam,  wood  sufficient  to  support  8  hogs,  ij  acres  of  meadow, 
valued  at  los.  (increased  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  to  305.). 

It  had  formerly  been  held  by  Leverich,  a  freeman  under  commendation 
to  Edric  of  Laxfield.  Under  him  4  freemen  held  12  acres  and  half  a  plough - 
team,  included  in  the  above  valuation. 

Another  holding  consisted  of  28  acres  and  i  ploughteam,  and  an  acre 
of  meadow,  valued  at  45.,  increased  to  55.  at  the  time  of  the  Survey.  It  had 
formerly  been  held  by  4  freemen  under  commendation  to  Edric. 

In  the  same  township  were  7  acres,  valued  at  14^.,  formerly  held  by  a 
freeman  under  commendation  to  Edric,  and  he  could  not  sell  his  land. 

Another  holding  consisted  of  30  acres,  i  ploughteam,  and  an  acre  of 
meadow,  valued  at  50^.  (increased  to  55.  at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  the 
soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  Earl.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  3^ 
freemen.  Of  these  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  claimed  one,  Erdric,  with 
10  acres ;  and  the  others  were  under  the  commendation  of  Uluric,  the 
predecessor  of  Eudo,  son  of  Spiruic.1 

Belonging  to  Peter  de  Valoignes  was  an  estate  in  this  place  of  9  acres, 
and  wood  sufficient  to  support  2  hogs,  valued  at  i8d.,  formerly  held  by  Alti, 
a  freeman  under  commendation.3 

Among  the  lands  of  Walter  the  deacon  was  a  small  holding  of  6  acres, 
valued  at  I2d.,  formerly  held  by  Brictric,  a  freeman  under  commendation.4 

Belonging  to  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  was  a  holding  of  60 
acres,  i£  ploughteams,  2  acres  of  meadow,  and  wood  sufficient  to  support 
4  hogs,  valued  at  los.  This  had  formerly  been  held  by  8  freemen  under  the 
soc  and  commendation  of  the  abbot. 

In  the  same  township  were  7  acres,  valued  at  14^.,  formerly  held  by  a 
man  who  could  not  sell.5 

Among  the  lands  of  Robert  the  Blond  was  a  holding  of  4^  acres,  valued 
at  i6rf.,  formerly  that  of  4  freemen  under  Achi's  commendation.' 

'Dom.  ii.  434*.  4Dom.  ii.   426*. 

'Dorn.  ii.  3096,  321.  5Dom.  ii.   3706. 

JDom.  ii.  3216.  *Dom.  ii.  440. 


WESTHORPE. 


325 


MANOR  OF  WESTHORPE  HALL. 

This  was  the  estate  of  Ulric  Hagana  in  the  time  of  King  Edward  the 
Confessor,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Domesday  Survey  was  held  by  Eudo,  son 
of  Spiruic.  Page,  however,  asserts  that  at  the  period  of  the  Domesday 
Survey  Robert  le  Blund  held  the  lordship  of  the  parish  ;  and  in  the  first 
year  of  Edw.  I.  Margery,  daughter  of  Jeffrey  de  Anos,  lord  of  Hillington, 
in  Norfolk,  and  relict  of  Sir  Bartholomew  de  Creke,  held  half  a  fee  in  Westhorpe. 
She  was  foundress  of  Flixton  nunnery.  As  the  worthy  historian  quotes 
no  authority,  we  cannot  conceive  on  what  he  bases  his  statement,  but  its 
inaccuracy  is  pretty  obvious.  The  total  holding  of  Robert  le  Blund  in 
Westhorpe,  was  four  and  a  half  acres,  valued  at  i6d. — not  much  of  a 
lordship  ! 

In  1240  we  find  that  Walter  de  Westhorpe,  brother  of  Roger,  was 
seised  of  two  parts  of  a  fee  here,  but  it  is  not  clear  that  he  had  the  lordship. 
A  little  later,  however,  John  de  Westhorpe  did  hold  this,  for  there  is  still 
extant  a  deed  of  his  whereby  he  granted  to  Philippo  de  Eya  this  manor, 
with  the  advowson  of  the  church.1 

In  1323  the  manor  was  held  by  John  de  Thorp,  for  he  died  seised  of  it 
this  year/  when  it  passed  to  his  widow  Alicia,  and  there  is  an  order  on  the 
Close  Rolls  in  1325  to  deliverto  "Alice,"  late  wife  of  John  de  Thorp  in  dower, 
a  fee  in  Westhorpe,  which  Adam  Coniers  then  held  of  the  yearly  value  of 
£8.3  Sir  John  de  Thorp,  grandfather  of  the  above  John,  married  Margaret, 
sister  of  Sir  Bartholomew  de  Creke  and  his  coheir.  The  manor  probably 
passed  to  John's  son  Robert,  who  died  in  I33O,4  and  may  have  passed  to 
his  son,  John  de  Thorp,  who  died  in  1350,*  but  if  so,  was  certainly  not  held 
by  him  at  the  time  of  his  death.  There  is  a  petition  for  damages,  on  a 
recovery  of  the  manor,  1328-1330,  amongst  the  Cotton  MSS.  in  the  British 
Museum,6  which  might  throw  light  on  the  subject.  It  is  clear  that  in  1338 
it  belonged  to  Matthew  de  Cambridge,  and  was  this  year  purchased  of  him 
by  Robert  Hovel,  son  of  Bartholomew  Hovel,  of  Wyverston,  and  Alianora 
his  wife.  The  fine  included  15  tofts,  300  acres  of  arable  land,  15  acres  of 
meadow,  30  acres  of  pasture,  30  acres  of  wood,  and  a  rent  charge  in  Westhorpe, 
Cotton,  Finningham,  Gislingham,  and  Nether  Rickinghall,  and  the  Manor 
of  Westhorpe  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  that  manor.7 

By  a  fine  in  1347  Peter  de  Scales,  Richard  de  Blogate,  Richard  le 
Spencer,  and  Peter  le  Clerke,  of  Euston,  convey  the  manor  to  Robert  and 
Alianora  his  wife,  and  warrant  it  to  them  and  their  heirs  for  ever  against 
all  claimants,  and  for  this  recognisance  Robert  and  Alianora  gave  them 
loo  marks  of  silver.8  There  is  another  fine  affecting  this  manor  the  same 
year ;  it  was  levied  by  Robert  de  Benhale,  Richard  de  Blogate,  Peter  de 
Scales,  Richard  le  Spencer,  and  Peter  la  Clerke,  of  Euston,  against  Thomas 
de  Felsham  and  Joan  his  wife.9 

This  Robert  Hovell  was  a  man  of  substance,  and  the  year  he  acquired 
the  manor  of  Westhorpe  he  also  purchased  of  Sir  Roger  de  Bavent  and 
Hawisia  his  wife  a  messuage  with  26  acres  of  arable  land,  &c.,  in  Combs 
and  Battisford,  together  with  the  advowson  of  the  chapel  of  Combs  for 
the  lives  of  the  said  Sir  Roger  and  Hawisia.'0 


'*.  Edw.  I.  Harl.  576.4. 
•I.P.M.,  17  Edw.  II.  61. 
3  Close  Rolls,  18  Edw.  II.  7. 
4I.P.M.,  4  Edw.  III.  34. 
s  I.P.M.,  23  Edw.  III.  164. 


*Cott.  iv.  23. 

7  Feet  of  Fines,  12  Edw.  III.  26. 

8  Feet  of  Fines,  21  Edw.  III.  6. 
'Feet  of  Fines,  21  Edw.  III.  32. 

10  Feet  of  Fines,  n  Edw.  III.  Hil.  and  Mich. 


326  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

On  the  Patent  Rolls  in  1345  we  find  a  commission  issued  on  the  com- 
plaint of  Thomas  de  Folsham  that  this  Robert  Hovel,  described  as  of 
\\  yveston  John  his  brother,  Adam  Scoos,  parson  of  the  church  of  Westhorp, 
John  Foxlee  of  \Vesthorp,  Henry  Belle  of  Eye,  John  de  Hornyngeshierth 
of  Baketon,  Roger  Bacoun  of  Mickelfeld,  John  Blome  of  Little  Thornham, 
Walter  Celestre  of  Westhorpe,  Walter  Balle  of  Westhorpe,  Henry  Hattele 
of  Wy version,  William,  son  of  Andrew  Godhous  of  Wyverston,  William 
Rampoile  of  Walsham,  John  "of  the  Welle V  of  Wolpit,  William  Kymbald 
of  Walsham,  William  Brown  of  Westhorpe,  John  Densy  of  Wyneston, 
John  Scot  of  Cotton,  Richard  Reynbald  of  Jakeslee,  and  others,  broke  his 
close  at  Westhorpe,  and  committed  an  assault.' 

Davy,  however,  states  that  the  manor  was  held  in  1307  by  Philip  de 
Eye,  and  he  follows  this  with  the  list  of  lords  : — 

1312.     Earth,  de  Elmham  had  free  warren.1 

1316.    Adam  de  Cornies.      1334.     He  released  all  right  to 

I33°-     J°hn,  son  °f  Robert  Pollard. 

1330.     Henry  de  Elmham,  son  and  heir  of    Bartholomew,  held  a 
manor  here.     John  de  la  Ryvere  died  seised  35  Edw.  III. 

1361.     Richard  de  la  Ryvere,  brother  and  heir. 

1388.     Sir  William  de  Elmham,  son  and  heir  of  Henry,  died  1403. 

It  is  perfectly  obvious  that  much  of  this  cannot  be  correct,  though 
it  is  possible  there  may  at  this  time  have  been  two  manors  in  WTesthorpe. 

We  meet  in  1371  with  a  fine  levied  of  the  manor  by  Sir  WTilliam  de 
Elmham  and  Anna  his  wife  against  John,  son  of  Thomas  de  Aspale,3  and 
m  J375  with  a  nne  °f  Mershall  and  Leveney  Hall  Manors  by  Sir 
Robert  Marny,  Sir  Bartholomew  de  Naunton,  John  Leche,  clerk,  John  de 
Heylesden,  Edmund  Gournay,  Richard  Daucres,  Clement  de  Brettenham, 
Reginald  de  Bungeye,  and  Nicholas  de  Hoo,  clerk,  against  Sir  William 
Elmham.4  However,  there  can  be  no  doubt  about  the  lordship  being  that 
of  Sir  William  de  Elmham,  son  of  Henry  in  1371,  and  in  this  or  the  following 
year  he  had  a  grant  of  a  market  fair  and  free  warren.5  Sir  William  de 
Elmham  held  command  in  the  army  which  Spencer,  the  warlike  Bishop  of 
Norwich,  led  into  Flanders,  ostensibly  to  support  the  Italian  Pope,  Urban  VI. 
against  the  nominee  of  France,  Clement  VII.  The  expedition  failed, 
chiefly  through  the  jealousy  of  the  Duke  of  Lancaster,  and  on  the  return  of 
the  Bishop  and  his  knight  they  were  condemned  in  a  heavy  fine.  Sir 
William  de  Elmham's  share  of  this  fine  was  3,080  golden  francs,  which  the 
Sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  was  directed  to  levy.  This  occurred  in  1384.' 
Sir  William  died  in  1403,  and  was  buried  in  the  abbey  at  Bury,  leaving  his 
estate  to  his  widow  (probably  his  2nd  wife)  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  John 
Ingoldesthorp,  Norfolk,  who  died  in  1419,  and  was  also  buried  in  the 
abbey  of  St.  Edmunds,  in  the  conventual  church  in  a  chapel  at  the  lower 
end  of  the  shrine  of  St.  Edmund.7  He  appointed  his  wife  executrix  with 
Sir  John  Ingoldesthorp,  who  presented  to  the  church  in  1403,  and  Elizabeth 
herself  in  1408. 

Their  wills  are  extant.  That  of  Sir  William  is  short,  mentioning  his 
children,  but  not  naming  them.  The  will  of  Elizabeth,  dated  at  Westhorpe, 
ist  Dec.  1419,  is  in  French,  with  numerous  specific  bequests,  by  one  of 
which  she  assigns  to  the  altar  of  St.  James,  at  Westhorpe,  "  Un  vestiment 

1  Pat.  Rolls,  iq  Edw.  III.  pt.  ii.  id.  'Chart.  Rolls,  46  Edw.  III.  I. 

'Chart.  Rolls,  5  li.lw.  II.  29.  «  Rynier,  Ann.  1384. 

'Feet  of  Fines,  45  Edw.  III.  46. 
4  Feet  of  Fines,  49  Edw.  III.  27. 


'  Stiff.  Institute,  vol.  v.  p.  255. 


WESTHORPE.  327 

entier  de  rouge  drape  soie,  &c.,  avec  ij  chandelers  de  laton."  She  gives 
legacies  also  to  Dame  Margaret  Kerdeston,  her  mother,  and  the  relations 
of  Thomas  Catteston,  or  Cateston,  her  first  husband.  The  Elmham  pedigree 
is  given  as  follows  :— 

Alexander  de  Elmham  =  ? 

Bartholomew  de  Elmham.  owner  of  Westhorpe  5  Edw.  II. 

I 

Henry  de  Elmham  =  Elizabeth,  dau.  and  coheir  of  Sir  William  de  Hackford. 
4  Edw.  III. 

Sir  William  de  Elmham  =  Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Sir  Hugh  Hastings,  of  EUing. 


Admiral  of  the  North 
Sea.  6  Rich.  II.  Will 
proved  1403. 


Will  proved  1419. 


?  Elmham  =  ? 

Robert  de  Elmham, 
of  North  Walsham. 

Margaret  =  —  Willoughby. 
wid.  1543. 

It  is  not  clear  what  became  of  the  estate  on  the  death  of  Elizabeth, 
widow  of  Sir  William  de  Elmham,  in  1419,  but  not  many  years  afterwards 
the  manor  was  held  by  Sir  William  de  la  Pole,  4th  Earl  of  Suffolk. 

This  Earl  held  high  position  in  the  reigns  of  Hen.  V.  and  Hen.  VI., being 
successively  created  Marquis  of  Suffolk,  Lord  High  Admiral,  and  finally 
Duke  of  Suffolk  in  1448.  He  was  found  seised  of  the  manor  at  the  time  of 
his  mock  trial  and  death  in  the  cockboat  off  Dover.1 

Sir  William  was  succeeded  by  his  son,  John  de  la  Pole,  who  married 
the  sister  of  Edw.  IV.,  and  John  was  succeeded  by  Edmund  de  la  Pole, 
attainted  25th  Jan.  1503,  and  beheaded  in  1513. 2 

Amongst  the  State  Papers  in  1511  will  be  found  a  commission  to 
enquire  into  the  circumstances  of  a  grant  of  this  manor  made  by  Edmund 
late  Earl  of  Suffolk.3 

The  same  year  we  find  one  of  those  frequent  grants  of  these  days  having 
little  effect,  a  grant  to  Robert  Washington  and  Anne  his  wife  for  life  and 
two  years  later  in  fee.4  The  grant  was  made  at  the  annual  rent  of  one  red 
rose.5 

The  estate  was  in  1514  assigned  by  the  Crown  to  the  widowed  Countess 
Margaret,  daughter  of  Lord  Scroope,  for  life,  and  on  her  death  in  1515 
passed  under  a  grant  made  in  1514  of  the  reversion  to  Charles  Brandon, 
Duke  of  Suffolk,  who  resided  here  with  his  wife,  Mary  Tudor,  sister  of  Hen. 
VIII.,  in  the  noble  mansion  of  Westhorpe  Hall,  which  is  now  demolished. 
The  cloister,  the  chapel,  with  its  painted  windows,  and  the  original  furniture, 
were  preserved  till  about  one  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago,  when  it  was 
entirely  pulled  down. 

During  its  demolition  it  was  visited  by  the  well-known  Thomas 
Martin,  "  honest  Tom  of  Palgrave,"  who,  in  a  note  left  among  his  papers, 
says:  "I  went  to  see  the  dismal  ruins  of  Westhorp  Hall,  formerly  the  seat 
of  Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk.  The  workmen  are  now  pulling  it 
down  as  fast  as  maybe,  in  a  very  careless  and  injudicious  manner.  The 
coping,  bricks,  battlements,  and  many  other  ornamental  pieces  are  made 
of  earth  and  burnt  hard,  and  are  as  fresh  as  when  first  built ;  they  might 

•  I.P.M.,  28  Hen.  VI.  25.  "  O.  3  Hen.  VIII.  Rot.  10 ;  5  Hen.  VIII. 

*  I.P.M.,  3  Hen.  VIII.  217  ;  5  Hen.  VIII.  i.  Rot.  23. 

sS.P.  5  Hen.  VIII.  4254.  'S.P.  3  Hen.  VIII.  3087;  Ib.  5  Hen.  VIII. 

4872. 


328  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

with  care  have  taken  them  down  whole,  but  all  the  fine  chimneys  and 
ornaments  were  pulled  down  with  ropes,  and  crushed  to  pieces  in  a  most 
shumrful  manner.  There  was  a  monstrous  figure  of  Hercules,  sitting 
cross-legged,  with  his  club  and  a  lion  beside  him, but  all  shattered  to  pieces, 
and  the  painted  glass  is  likely  to  share  the  same  fate.  The  timber  is  fresh 
and  sound,  and  tne  building,  which  was  very  lofty,  stood  as  erect  as  when 
first  built.  It  is  a  pity  that  care  is  not  taken  to  preserve  some  few  of  our 
ancient  fabrics ;  to  demolish  every  old  piece  of  architecture  is  quite  bar- 
barous.'" 

The  family  of  Charles  Brandon  is  represented  to  be  of  great  antiquity, 
and  to  have  assumed  its  name  from  the  lordship  of  Brandon,  in  this  county. 
He  was  endowed  by  nature  with  eminent  qualities,  both  of  body  and 
mind,  and  was  remarkable  for  the  dignity  and  gracefulness  of  his  person, 
and  his  robust  and  athletic  constitution.  He  distinguished  himself  in 
tilts  and  tournaments  (the  favourite  exercise  of  his  sovereign,  Hen.  VIII.) 
by  his  consummate  dexterity,  gallantry,  and  valour.  Having  been  brought 
up  with  that  Prince,  he  studied  his  disposition,  and  exactly  conformed 
to  it,  which  produced  so  close  an  intimacy  that  his  advancement 
in  Royal  favour  and  honours  was  rapid  and  extraordinary.  His  first 
creation  to  nobility  was  to  the  title  of  Viscount  Lisle,  in  the  5th  of  King 
Hen.  VIII.,  for  his  eminent  services  in  the  campaign  against  France  ;  and 
soon  after  he  was  elevated  to  the  dignity  of  Duke  of  Suffolk.  On  the  disso- 
lution of  the  greater  monasteries,  he  obtained  a  considerable  share  of  their 
possessions.  In  the  36th  of  the  above  reign,  he  was  appointed  general  of 
the  army  sent  to  France,  and  took  Boulogne.  During  the  capricious  reign 
of  Hen.  VIII.,  he  preserved  his  influence  to  the  last,  and  died,  in  the 
estimation  of  his  King  and  country,  with  this  character,  that  "  although  a 
better  courtier  than  a  statesman,  yet  he  used  his  Prince's  favours  with  so 
much  moderation  as  not  to  disoblige  anyone." 

The  Duke  married  four  times,  and  by  the  Princess  Mary,  the  2nd 
daughter  of  King  Hen.  VII.,  and  widow  of  Louis  XII.,  King  of  France,  his 
3rd  wife,  he  had  a  son  Henry,  created  Earl  of  Lincoln,  I7th  Hen.  VIII., 
who  died  in  the  lifetime  of  his  father,  and  unmarried  ;  and  two  daughters, 
of  which  Frances  married  ist  Henry  Grey,  afterwards  Duke  of  Suffolk, 
and  2ndly  Adrian  Stokes ;  and  Eleanor,  married  Henry,  Earl  of  Cumberland.1 

The  story  of  Charles  Brandon's  marriage  with  Mary,  the  sister  of 
Hen.  VIII.,  and  Dowager  Queen  of  France,  need  not  be  repeated  ;  but  after 
their  return  to  England  Charles  and  his  Royal  wife  appear  to  have  spent 
much  of  their  time  at  Westhorpe,  the  Queen  amusing  herself  by  laying  out 
her  garden  after  the  fashion  she  had  learnt  in  France,  and  occupying  her 
later  years  in  the  education  of  her  children. 

Here  Mary  died  25th  June,  1533,  and  in  the  month  following  she  was 
buried  with  royal  honours  in  the  neighbouring  abbey  of  St.  Edmund's, 
Bury.  On  the  dissolution  of  the  monastery  her  remains  were  removed  to 
St.  Mary's  Church,  and  her  tomb  was  re-opened  in  1731,  and  again  in  1784. 
Full  notice  of  these  proceedings  is  given  in  the  late  Mr.  Tymm's  History  of 
St.  Mary's  Church.  The  Duke  died  in  1545,  and  was  buried  in  the  south 
aisle  of  St.  George's  Chapel,  Windsor.3 

«  Kirby,  Suff.  Traveller,  3rd  ed.,  p.  314.  *  Paper  read  by  Lord  John  Hervey  before 

1  Page,  Hist,  of  Suff.  p.  496.  the    Suffolk    Institute    in     1874  ; 

S.I.  v.  255. 


WESTHORPE. 


329 


Charles  Brandon  appears  in  1538  to  have  granted  the  manor  to  the 
Crown  in  exchange  for  other  heriditaments,1  and  a  grant  of  the  manor  was 
made  to  Anne  of  Cleves  as  part  of  her  dower.  In  1554  Sir  Thomas  Cornwallis 
had  a  grant  of  the  reversion  in  fee  by  letters  patent/  with  power  to  alienate 
which  he  did  in  favour  of  John  Cowell  and  others. 

Amongst  the  Tanner  MSS.  in  the  Bodleian  will  be  found  certain  articles 
of  agreement  between  Sir  William  Cornwallis  and  his  brother  Charles 
touching  the  manor.3 

In  1566  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon  had  a  grant  of  the  manor,  and  later  in  the 
reign  of  Elizabeth  the  manor  is  found  in  the  possession  of  William  Barrow. 

The  Barrows  were  a  family  of  position  in  Norfolk  and  Suffolk.  Thomas 
Barrow,  who  was  living  at  Cranworth,  in  Norfolk,  1581,  married  Mary, 
daughter  and  coheir  of  Henry  Bures,  by  whom  he  had  a  son,  William, 
whose  monument  is  on  the  north  side  of  the  chancel.  From  this  time  to  the 
time  of  Maurice  Shelton  the  devolution  of  the  manor  is  the  same  as 
that  of  Newton  Hall,  in  Babergh  Hundred. 

On  the  marriage  of  Henry  Shelton  in  1687  with  Hester,  daughter  of 
Sir  John  Churchman,  of  Illington,  the  manor  was  settled.  Maurice  Shelton 
settled  the  property  upon  his  daughter  Arabella4  on  her  marriage  in 
1727,  and  we  find  it  held  by  her  husband,  Thomas  Taylor,  as  of  her  right. 
Arabella's  2nd  husband  was  Baron  Pretyman,  of  Bacton,  who  died  in  1758. 
She,  by  her  1st  husband,  had  two  daughters,  Maria  Rebecca  and  Arabella, 
who  married  William  Garrod,  and  died  without  issue.  Maria  Rebecca 
married  ist  Richard  Dillon,  who  died  without  issue,  2ndly,  John  Reilly,  of 
Ireland,  who  held  this  manor  in  right  of  his  wife,  and  died  in  Ireland,  2nd 
Nov.  1795.  Maria  Rebecca  died  seised  of  the  manor  8th  Apl.  1810,  at  the 
age  of  81,  and  was  buried  at  Westhorpe,  when  the  manor  passed  to  her  son, 
Thomas  Reilly,  who  resided  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  and  igth  July,  1799, 
married  Anne,  a  daughter  of  one  Steele.  Thomas  Reilly  died  at  Thornton 
Heath  in  Surrey,  6th  Dec.  1831,  at  the  age  of  72. 

The  manor  subsequently  passed  to  Sir  Miles  Nightingale,  and  in  1855 
was  held  by  Lady  Nightingale.  It  is  now  vested  in  Messrs.  Beaumont  and 
Sons,  of  Coggeshall,  Essex. 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth, 
we  find  an  action  by  Nicholas  Raynberd  against  Robert  Mulley  and  George 
Cooke  to  obtain  a  conveyance  of  freeholds  and  copyholds  in  Westhorpe  and 
Finningham,  the  latter  being  held  of  the  Manor  of  Westhorpe.3  Westhorpe 
Manor  was  the  subject  of  a  fine  levied  in  1597  by  John  Cowell  and  others 
against  Sir  Thomas  Cornwallis  and  others.6 

Arms  of  ELMHAM  :  Argent ;  a  fesse,  Gules,  between  three  eagles,  dis- 
played Sable.  Of  BRANDON  :  Barry  of  ten,  Argent  and  Gules  ;  over  all  a 
lion  rampant,  Or. ;  crowned  per  pale,  Argent,  of  the  second. 


1  S.P.  30  Hen.  VIII.  vol.  ii.  1182  (l8a). 

2 1  and  2  P.  and  M.,  8  Rep.  Hist.  Com. 
277. 

'Tanner,  xcviii.  99. 

4  She  was  baptised  at  Benhall,  zgth  Nov. 
1709.  The  writer  has  seen  a  lease 
dated  4th  Nov.  1718,  made  by 
Maurice  Shelton  of  the  one  part, 
and  John  Randall,  of  Shelton,  in 
Norf.,  clerk,  and  James  Harvey, 
of  Cockfield,  Esq.,  of  the  other  part, 
which  was  evidently  a  lease  on 

S  I 


which  a  release  was  founded,  and 
this  possibly  formed  part  of  the 
settlement  referred  to.  In  this 
lease,  Westhorpe  Hall,  with  the 
appurtenances  is  stated  to  be  then 
in  the  occupation  of  Edward  Grim- 
wood,  at  the  rent  of  £130  per  annum, 
and  a  messuage  and  premises 
then  in  the  occupation  of  Richard 
Matthews,  at  a  rent  of  £56. 

5C.P.  ii.  418. 

6  Fine,  Mich.  39-40  Eliz. 


33o  THE   MANORS   OF   SUFFOLK. 

WETHERINGSETT. 

MANOR  was  held  here  in  Saxon  times  by  the  Abbot  of  Ely, 
and  consisted  of  4  carucates  of  land,  10  villeins,  9  bordars, 
4  serfs,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne  and  3  belonging  to  the 
men,  4  acres  of  meadow,  and  wood  sufficient  to  support  500 
hogs.  Also  a  church  with  16  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam. 
There  were  of  live  stock  2  rouncies,  8  beasts,  30  hogs,  107 
sheep,  and  18  goats,  valued  at  £10.  These  details  were  not 
very  different  at  the  time  of  the  Survey,  when  Ralph  de  Savigni  held  the 
fourth  carucate  of  Ranulf  Peverell ;  the  serfs  were  reduced  to  2,  and  the 
wood  was  only  enough  to  support  400  hogs. 

In  the  same  township  were  40  acres  and  2  ploughteams,  valued  at 
i  os.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  Abbot  of  Ely.  This  was  formerly  held  by  four 
freemen  under  commendation,  Goodwin,  Brictmar,  Osulf,  and  Deerwulf. 
The  holding  was  ij  league  long  and  I  league  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  gd. 
Others  had  .holdings  therein.1 

Amongst  the  lands  of  Earl  Ralph  kept  in  hand  for  the  King  by  Good- 
rich the  steward  were  two  holdings  in  this  place. 

One  consisted  of  12  acres  and  a  half,  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  2s.,  as 
part  of  the  valuation  of  Mendlesham  (?).  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  two 
half-freemen. 

The  other  consisted  of  33  acres,  i  ploughteam,  and  5  bordars,  and  ren- 
dered 4od.  as  part  alsoof  the  valuation  of  Mendlesham  (?).  This  was  formerly 
held  by  four  freemen.* 

A  small  estate  in  this  place  was  that  of  Robert  Malet,  consisting  of  7 
acres,  valued  at  45.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  Goodrich,  a  freeman.5 

Belonging  to  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  were  two  estates. 
One  consisted  of  40  acres,  3  bordars,  2  ploughteams,  and  an  acre  of  meadow, 
and  wood  to  support  3  hogs,  valued  at  6s.  8d.  This  had  formerly  been 
held  by  ten  freemen. 

The  other  consisted  of  3  acres  on  the  abbot's  demesne,  valued  at  6d., 
and  held  by  Godwin.4 

MANOR  OF  WETHERINGSETT. 

In  the  time  of  *King  Edw.  the  Confessor,  Thurston  gave  this  manor 
to  the  church  of  Ely,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Domesday  Survey  a  fourth 
was  held  by  Ralph  de  Savigni  of  Ranulf  Peverell.  The  chief  lordship  was, 
however,  retained  by  the  Bishop  of  Ely,  who  had  a  grant  of  free  warren 
here  in  1251,  and  claimed  view  of  frankpledge  and  assize  of  bread  and  beer 
as  well  here.5 

On  the  Patent  Rolls  in  1297  we  find  a  commission  issued  touching  the 
persons  who  entered  the  park  of  William,  Bishop  of  Ely,  at  Wetheringsett, 
hunted  there  and  carried  away  deer,6  and  the  ministers'  accounts  of  the 
Bishop's  temporalities  here  14  Edw.  I.  and  26  to  28  Edw.  I.,  will  be  found 
in  the  Public  Record  Office.7  An  inquisition  of  the  lands  of  the  Bishop 
of  Ely  in  Wetheringsett  in  1356  will  be  found  amongst  the  Additional 
Manuscripts  in  the  British  Museum.8 

In  the  time  of  Hen.  VIII.  the  manor  passed  to  the  Crown,  and  the  King 
in  1528  granted  a  lease  of  it  for  61  years.  Queen  Elizabeth  took  the  manor 

'Dom.  ii.  3846.  5Q.W.  724. 

'Dom.  ii.  2856.  «Pat.  Rolls,  23  Edw.  I.  pt.  i.  22,  21. 

JDom.  ii.  324.  7  Bundle  1132,  Nos.  9,  10. 

«Dom.  ii.  370,  371.  8Add.  6165 


WETHERINGSETT.  331 

away  from  the  See  of  Ely  for  a  pension,  and  in  1575  it  was  granted  to  Lady 
Dorothy  Stafford,  widow. 

Amongst  the  Harleian  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum  is  a  note  of  the 
privileges  granted  by  Kings  of  England  and  Queen  Elizabeth  to  the  Bishop 
of  Ely  "  exemplifyed  "  for  Wetheringsett  Manor  in  1590  for  Lady  Dorothy 
Stafford,  then  owner  thereof.1  We  find  amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings 
in  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  an  action  by  Anthony  Gosnolde  against 
Richard  Haggard,  parson  of  Wetheringsett  church,  to  establish  a  modus  for 
tithes  as  to  a  messuage  called  Wetheringsett  Lodge  and  park  called  Wether- 
ingsett Park,  the  estate  of  Dame  Dorothy  Stafford,  widow.2 

Amongst  the  same  Proceedings  is  an  action  by  Richard  Blenerhaysett 
against  John  Prettyman  concerning  deeds  relating  to  copyholds,  parcel  of 
Wetheringsett  and  Brockford  Manors,  of  which  complainant's  father  was 
seised,  the  Lady  Dorothy  Stafford,  widow,  being  lady  of  the  Manor  of 
Wetheringsett.3 

Lady  Dorothy  Stafford  had  licence  in  1598  to  alien  to  Sir  Stephen 
Soame,  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  while  sale  was  effected  in  i6oo.4  He  died 
in  i6i9,5  when  Sir  William  Soame,  Knt.,  his  eldest  son  and  heir,  succeeded 
to  the  said  estate  and  died  seised  thereof  in  1655,  when  the  manor  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  Stephen  Soame.  His  widow  Ann,  daughter  and  coheir 
of  Ambrose  Copinger,  of  Buxhall  and  Lavenham,  married  in  1659  George 
Reeve,  of  Thwaite,  and  possessed  Wetheringsett  Hall.  George  Reeve  was 
created  abaronet  in  1662-3,  and  died  in  1678,  and  his  widow  by  her  will,  dated 
1691,  gave  the  manor  to  her  kinsman,  Henry  Edgar,  who  held  a  court  for  the 
manor  loth  March,  1696.  By  his  will,  dated  1705,  Henry  Edgar  devised 
it  to  his  daughter,  Mirable,  married  to  Arthur  Jenney,  of  Bredfield.  She 
died  in  1724  and  he  in  1739,  when  the  manor  passed  to  their  son  and  heir 
Edmund  Jenney,  of  Bredfield,  who  died  in  1745,  when  it  went  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Edmund  Jenney,  and  in  1764  it  was  vested  in  Charles  M.  Lord 
Maynard,  as  trustee  for  Edmund  Jenney. 

In  1885  Mrs.  Robert  Moore  was  lady  of  Wetheringsett,  in  1896  Mrs. 
Brooke,  and  the  lordship  is  now  vested  in  William  Walter  Westwood. 

Wetheringsett  manor  house,  situated  near  the  church,  is  a  handsome 
mansion  in  the  Elizabethan  style,  standing  upon  an  acclivity. 

A  description  of  the  manor  will  be  found  amongst  the  Harleian  MSS. 
in  the  British  Museum.6 


'  Harl.  358.  5  See  Little  Thornham  Manor,  in  Risbridge 

2C.P.  i.  358.  Hundred. 

3C.P.  i.  55.  6Harl.  358. 

4  Fine,  Hil.  42  Eliz. 


332  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

WICKHAM  SKEITH. 

HERE  was  one  manor  here  in  Saxon  times  held  by  Alfleda, 
a  freewoman  under  commendation  to  Harold.  It  consisted 
of  2  carucates  of  land,  21  bordars,  6  serfs,  3  ploughteams 
in  demesne,  and  6  belonging  to  the  men,  wood  for  the  support 
of  40  hogs,  and  4  acres  of  meadow.  Of  live  stock  there 
were  2  rouncies,  18  beasts,  40  hogs,  260  sheep,  and  60 
goats,  valued  at  loos.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  this  manor 
was  held  by  Roger  de  Poictou,  and  the  details  were  a  little  different. 
There  was  only  i  ploughteam  in  demesne  and  2  belonging  to  the  men  ; 
the  rouncies  and  goats  were  not  mentioned,  the  beasts  were  reduced  to 
i,  the  hogs  to  14,  and  the  sheep  to  33,  while  the  value  had  come  down  to 
405. 

Another  holding  of  Roger  de  Poictou  consisted  of  16  acres,  half  a 
ploughteam,  i  bordar,  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  35.  Also  a 
church  with  12  acres,  valued  at  2S.  This  estate  was  formerly  that  of  a 
freeman  and  three  half -freemen  under  commendation  to  Harold.1 

Among  the  lands  of  Earl  Ralph  kept  in  hand  for  the  King  by  Goodrich 
the  steward  was  a  holding  of  18  acres  on  the  Mendlesham  demesne,  and 
i  ploughteam,  held  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  by  8  bordars.  And 
8  acres  were  held  by  two  half-freemen  and  two  freemen,  it  all  being 
included  in  the  valuation  of  Mendlesham.  In  the  same  township 
was  a  holding  of  37^  acres,  and  i£  ploughteams  held  by  6  freemen.  They 
had  formerly  been  valued  at  205.,  but  had  been  reduced  to  125.,  and  were 
included  in  the  above  valuation.  The  soc  belonged  to  the  King  and 
Earl. 

Another  estate  of  Earl  Ralph  was  a  hamlet  belonging  to  the  demesne  of 
Mendlesham,  having  61  acres  and  an  acre  of  meadow.2  Robert  Malet  had 
one  holding  in  this  place  which  consisted  of  16  acres  and  half  a  ploughteam, 
valued  at  35.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  Earl.  Robert  Malet's 
mother  held  it  as  of  the  same  fee,  and  it  was  formerly  held  by  two  freemen 
under  commendation  to  Ulveva.3 

Belonging  to  the  fee  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  were  two  estates. 
One  consisted  of  60  acres  under  the  abbot's  soc  and  commendation,  2 
ploughteams,  an  acre  of  meadow,  and  wood  to  support  4  hogs,  valued  at 
IDS.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  14  freemen. 

The  other  estate  consisted  of  5^  acres,  valued  at  iod.,  the  soc  belonging 
to  the  King  and  Earl.  Over  them  it  was  held  by  Orger,  the  abbot's  steward, 
and  Aluric  the  steward  before  him  invaded  them.  It  had  formerly  been 
held  by  Brunloc  and  Hervart,  two  freemen  under  commendation  to  Bur- 
chard,  of  Mendlesham.4 

MANOR  OF  WICKHAM  SKEITH  al.  W.  SKEY. 

This  was  the  estate  of  Alfleda,  a  freewoman  under  the  protection  of 
Harold  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor,  and  formed  part  of  the  possessions 
of  Roger  de  Poictou  at  the  time  of  the  Great  Survey. 

In  1 120  Robert,  the  3rd  son  of  Herbrand  or  Herdebrand  de  Sackville, 
held  fourteen  manors  in  this  county  of  the  Honor  of  Eye,  by  the  service 
of  one  knight's  fee  ;  but  being  displeased,  it  is  said,  at  the  nation's  rejection 

1  Dom.  ii.  348.  J  Dom.  ii.  323*. 

*  Dom.  ii.  2856,  286.  4  Dom,  ii.  370,  371. 


WICKHAM   SKEITH.  333 

of  Maud  the  Empress,  and  placing  King  Stephen  on  the  throne,  he  forsook 
the  world,  and  entered  the  abbey  of  St.  John  at  Colchester.1  We  venture 
to  doubt  the  alleged  reason  for  the  retirement  from  the  world  of  Robert 
de  Sackville,  in  view  of  the  fact  that  one  of  the  witnesses  to  his  deed  of 
gift  to  the  abbey  is  Eustace,  King  Stephen's  man,  who  by  way  of  dis- 
tinction, is  named  Comes  or  the  Earl. 

To  the  abbey  Robert  de  Sackville  granted  the  lordship  of  this  parish, 
with  the  advowson  of  the  church,  and  Jordan  de  Sackville,  his  son  and  heir, 
confirmed  the  said  grant.  The  grant  is  still  in  existence  and  may  be  seen 
in  the  Bodleian.1 

The  mandate  of  King  Stephen  concerning  this  grant,  which  was  of  half 
a  hide  of  land  and  two  men,  will  be  found  amongst  the  Essex  Charters  in 
the  Bodleian,3  and  in  the  same  collection  will  be  found  a  command  of 
King  Hen.  II.  to  Hugh  Pincerna  without  delay  to  return  to  the  monks  of 
Colchester  their  land  in  Wickham  Skeith,  so  that  they  may  hold  the  same 
in  peace  and  freely,  as  the  charters  of  King  Henry,  his  grandfather,  and 
of  himself  testify.  The  date  is  about  n6o.4  In  the  same  collection  is  also 
the  confirmation  of  Hugh  Pincerna  to  the  abbey  of  certain  lands  in  Wick- 
ham,  formerly  held  by  Ralph,  his  grandfather.  Adam  Pincerna,  son  of 
Ralph,  confirmed  the  gift.5  By  another  deed  Adam  Pincerna  granted 
to  the  abbey  in  frankalmoin  the  donation  which  Ralph  his  father  made 
to  them  of  half  a  hide  and  two  men  within  the  Manor  of  Wickham,  and 
finally  Jordan  de  Salcovilla,  or  Sackville,  granted  and  confirmed  to  the 
abbey  in  frankalmoin  the  manor,  which  Robert,  with  the  consent  of 
Lettice  his  wife  and  his  sons  and  heirs  had  given  to  the  monks  of  Colchester.6 

This  Jordan  de  Sackville  was  ancestor  of  the  Earls  and  Dukes  of  Dorset. 
Sir  Robert  de  Sackville  died  in  the  said  abbey,  and  was  buried  there. 

An  old  chronicler  refers  to  the  gift  in  this  way  :  "  The  manor  was  given 
in  the  reign  of  Stephen  to  the  abbey  of  Saint  John  at  Colchester,  by  a  knight 
of  great  note  in  those  days,  named  Robert  de  Salco  Villa,  who  at  last  turned 
monk,  upon  condition  that  four  monks  of  that  house  should  be  settled 
here  to  pray  for  his  soul ;  and  in  the  next  reign  his  son  Jordan  consented 
that  the  religious  should  be  withdrawn  from  hence,  and  removed  to 
Colchester,  where  the  convent  was  to  be  increased  with  four  religious 
above  their  own  number." 

In  1258  the  Abbot  of  St.  John's,  Colchester,  had  a  grant  of  free  warren 
here.7 

Amongst  the  Essex  Charters  in  the  Bodleian  is  an  appointment  by 
Robert,  son  of  William  Gernun,  of  Pylecot,  of  Walter,  keeper  of  the  Manor 
of  Wickham,  and  a  monk  of  the  abbey  of  Colchester,  his  attorney  to  pay  to 
Sir  Richard  de  Hecham  2id.  of  annual  rent,  &c.,  from  a  tenement  in 
Wycham.  The  date  is  about  1260.*  From  the  Quo  Warranto  Rolls  we 
learn  that  the  Abbot  of  St.  John,  Colchester,  claimed  view  of  frankpledge 
and  assize  of  bread  and  beer  in  Wycham. 

At  the  Dissolution  the  manor  passed  to  the  Crown,  and  the  State 
Papers  for  1536  disclose  the  fact  that  in  that  year  Sir  Anthony  Wingfield 
petitioned  for  a  grant  of  the  manor.9  He  does  not  seem  to  have  been 
successful,  for  in  1542  the  manor  was  granted  to  Sir  Richard  Freston,  with 

'See    Old     Hall,     Braiseworth,    in    this  ' Ib.  86. 

Hundred.  6  Bodl.  Essex  Ch.  86,  88. 

»Bodl.  Essex  Ch.  87.  7  Chart.  Rolls,  37  Hen.  III.  2. 

s  Bodl.  Essex  Ch.  84.  ,    .  .  8Bodl.  Essex  Ch.  96. 

'Bodl.   Essex  Ch.  85.  9S.P.  1536,  p.  1493. 


334  THE   MANORS   OF  SUFFOLK. 

the  rectory  and  advowson  of  the  vicarage  as  parcel  of  the  possessions  of  the 
above  monastery. 

The  grant  will  be  found  entered  on  the  Originalia  Rolls  as  made  34 
Hen.  VIII.  [1542],'  but  strangely  enough,  Sir  Richard  Freston  had  granted 
a  lease  of  lands,  portion  of  the  manor,  before  obtaining  his  own  grant.  This 
lease  is  still  preserved  amongst  the  Bodleian  Charters.  It  bears  date  aoth 
April, 33  Hen.  VIII., and  by  it  Richard  Freston,  described  as  of  Mendham, 
demises  to  Nicholas  Godard,  of  Wickham  Skeyth,  a  meadow,  part  of  the 
Manor  of  Wickam  Skeyth,  for  42  years  at  an  annual  rent  of  35.  4^.'  Sub- 
sequently to  the  grant  to  him  of  the  manor,  Richard  Freston  grants  six 
more  leases  of  portions  of  it,  all  of  which  leases  are  preserved  amongst  the 
Bodleian  Charters.  They  are  as  follows  :  Indenture  made  i4th  May, 
35  Hen.  VIII.,  by  which  Richard  Freston  of  Mendham,  Esq.,  demises  to 
Thomas  Bedwall  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  and  their  sons,  the  site  of  the  Manor 
of  Wykham  and  lands,  &c.,  for  99  years,  at  an  annual  rent  of  £io.J 

Indenture  made  loth  November,  35  Hen.  VIII.,  by  which  Richard 
Freston,  of  Mendham,  Esq.,  lord  of  the  Manor  of  Wickham  Skeyth,  in 
consideration  of  the  receipt  of  £90,  demises  unto  John  Braine,  of  Stoke- 
asshe,  yeoman,  certain  land  in  Wickham  Skeyth,  for  the  term  of  300 
years,  at  an  annual  rent  of  iiij^.4 

Indenture  dated  7th  December,  35  Hen.  VIII.,  by  which  Richard 
Freston,  of  Mendham,  Esq.,  lord  of  the  Manor  of  WTickham  Skeyth,  in  con- 
sideration of  the  receipt  of  £6,  demises  to  Edward  Dove,  of  Wickham 
Skeyth,  a  small  close  of  land  in  Wickham  Skeyth,  for  the  term  of  99  years 
at  an  annual  rent  of  iiijrf.3 

Indenture  dated  8th  January,  35  Hen.  VIII.,  witnesseth  that  Richard 
Freston,  of  Mendham,  lord  of  the  Manor  of  Wickham  Skeyth,  in  considera- 
tion of  the  payment  of  £12, grants  to  Nicholas  Godard,  of  Wickham  Skeyth, 
3  acres  of  land  in  Wickham  Skeyth  for  300  years,  at  $d.  annual  rent.6 

Indenture  dated  loth  December,  37  Hen.  VIII.,  by  which  Richard 
Freston, of  Mendham,  lord  of  Wickham  Skeyth,  demises  to  John  Braine  of 
Stokeasshe,  for  £10.  145.  6d.,  in  hand  paid,  one  close  called  Grenecroft, 
lying  in  Wickham  Skeyth,  for  1,000  years,  at  an  annual  rent  of  id? 

Indenture  dated  2ist  April,  14  Q.  Eliz.,  by  which  Richard  Freston 
demises  to  John  Bedwell  his  lands,  pastures,  &c.,  in  Wickham  for  3  years, 
at  an  annual  rent  of  305." 

There  is  also  in  the  Bodleian  a  rental  of  the  manor  "  renued  for  ayeare 
due  at  St.  Michael  1627."' 

Amongst  the  Tanner  MSS.  in  the  Bodleian  is  a  quit  claim  of  the  manor 
by  Richard  and  William  Freston  to  Thomas  Wyseman  in  1546,'°  and  another 
lease  in  1547  °f  Part  °f tne  manor  is  also  contained  in  the  same  collection. 

It  is  granted  by  Richard  Freston  to  John  "  Prattyman."" 

Richard  Freston  had  licence  in  1547  to  alien  the  manor  to  his  cousin 
William  Freston,  who  died  in  1551,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and 
heir,  William  Freston,  who  died  in  1564. 

'O.  4  Pars.  Rot.  n.  ?Ch.  1430. 

'Bodl.  Suff.  Ch.  1425.  «Ch.  1431. 

'Ch.  1427.  9  Bodl.  Suff.  Ch.   1432. 

4Ch.  1428.  "Tanner,  cclxxxiv.  48. 

5Ch.  1429  "Tanner,  cclxxxiv.  96. 

•Ch.  1426. 


WICKHAM   SKEITH.  335 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  the  time  of  Elizabeth  are  several 
actions  respecting  this  manor  in  which  Richard  Freston  is  referred  to  as 
then  lord.  Three  are  as  follows  : — 

1.  Proceedings  by  Robert  Heywarde  against  Richard  Freston 
to  ascertain  fine  on  admission  to  copyholds  in  Wickham  Skeith,  held  of 
Manor  of  Wickham   Skeith,  purchased  of  devisees  of   will  of  John 
Bartlett.1 

2.  Claim  for  possession  pursuant  to  decree  by  Robert  Heywarde 
against  John  Grene  and  others,  as  to  lands  in  Wickham  Skeith,  held 
of  Wickham  Manor,  Richard  Freston  being  lord.2 

3.  Action  by  Elizabeth  Reeve,  widow  of  John  Reeve  and  Edward 
Reeve,  Mary  and  Thomasyn  Reeve,  his  children,  as  to  admission  to 
lands  in  Wickham  Skeith,  held  of  Manor  of  Wickham  Skeith,  by  John 
Reeve   deceased,   who   surrendered  same    to   divers    uses,   Richard 
Freston  being  lord.3 

From  Wm.  Freston  the  manor  passed  to  his  cousin  and  heir,  William 
Freston,  who  died  in  1621,  when  it  went  to  his  brother  and  heir,  Richard 
Freston,  who  died  in  1634. 

The  manor  then  devolved  upon  Richard  Freston's  daughter  and  heir 
Elizabeth,  married  to  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  ist  Bart.,  of  Gillingham.  He 
died  3rd  Aug.  i666,4  and  she  married,  I4th  Apl.  1670,  Sir  Wm.  Godbold,  of 
Mendham,  and  died  in  1679,  when  the  manor  went  to  her  son  and  heir, 
Sir  Edmund  Bacon,  2nd  Bart.,  who  died  unmarried  and  was  buried  at 
Gillingham  5th  Nov.  1683, 5  when  the  manorpassed  to  his  brotherand  heir, 
Sir  Richard  Bacon,  3rd  Bart.,  of  Gillingham,  who  married  his  cousin  Anne, 
daughter  of  Sir  Henry  Bacon,  2nd  Bart.,  of  Mildenhall,  and  died  without 
issue,  being  buried  at  Gillingham  8th  Oct.  1685.  By  his  will,  dated  in 
i685fi  he  devised  the  manor  to  his  cousin,  Sir  Henry  Bacon,  of  Herringfleet, 
for  life  with  remainder  to  his  son,  Sir  Henry  Bacon,  married  2gth  June, 
1671,  to  Sarah,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Castleton,  2nd  Bart.  Sir  Henry,  the  son, 
was  buried  at  Gillingham  I3th  Jan.  1685-6,  when  the  manor  devolved  on  his 
son  and  heir,  Sir  Edmund  Bacon,  Bart.,  of  Gillingham,  who  married  ist  in 
1688,  Philippa,  4th  daughter  and  coheir  of  Sir  Edmund  Bacon,  4th  Bart.,  of 
Redgrave,  and  2ndly  i6th  Apl.  1713  Mary,  daughter  of  John  Castell,  of 
Raveningham,  co.  Norfolk.  He  died  loth  and  was  buried  i7th  July,  1721, 
at  Gillingham,  having  by  his  will,  dated  1718,  directed  the  manor  to  be  sold. 
In  1723  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Edmund  Bacon,  became  the  purchaser,  and  he 
sold  the  manor  the  same  year  to  Sir  Edmund  Bacon,  6th  Bart.,  of  Garboldis- 
ham,  co.  Norfolk,  who  died  in  1758. 

This  Sir  Edmund  Bacon,  however,  settled  the  manor  on  his  daughter 
Loetitia  upon  her  marriage  with  Sir  Airmine  Wodehouse,  Bart,  son  of  Sir  John 
Wodehouse,  of  Kimberley,  Bart.  Sir  Airmine  Wodehouse  died  2ist  May, 
I7777  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  John  Wodehouse, 
Recorder  of  Falmouth,  M.P.  for  Norfolk  1784-97.  He  married,  3Oth  March 
1769,  Sophia,  only  daughter  and  heir  of  Hon.  Charles  Berkeley,  of  Bruton 

1  C.P.  ii.  9.  4  Will  proved  1666, 

« C.P.  ii.  40.  5  Admin.  25th  June,  1684. 

»C.P.  ii.   399.     Blomefield  says    Richard  6  Proved  May,  1686. 

Freston,  lord  of  Wickham  Skeith,  nVill  proved  1777. 

died  on  27th   Nov.   1616,  and  was 

buried    at  Mendham. 


336  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

Abbey,  Somerset.  He  was,  26th  Oct.  1797,  created  a  peer  as  Baron 
Wodehouse,  of  Kimberley,  but  previously  to  this  in  1786  his  trustees  had 
sold  the  manor  to  Edmund,  Lord  Thurlow,  who  died  in  1806,  having  by  his 
\\ill  devised  it  to  Edward,  second  Lord  Thurlow,  his  nephew,  in  fee. 

By  Act  of  Parliament  48  Geo.  III.  [1808]  the  manor  was  vested  in 
trustees  for  sale. 

In  1855  the  manor  belonged  to  the  Rev.  C.  Garrad,  who  resided  at  the 
hall,  which  he  had  rebuilt  a  few  years  previously.  Certainly  from  1885 
the  manor  has  been  vested  in  the  Henniker  family,  and  Lord  Henniker 
is  the  present  owner. 

Court  Rolls  of  this  manor  4  Edw.  III.  will  be  found  amongst  the 
Bodleian  Suff.  Rolls  (36)  and  Rolls  time  of  Elizabeth  are  referred  to  in 
Suffolk  Institute.1 

Particulars  of  the  manor  will  be  found  amongst  the  Tanner  MSS.  in 
the  Bodleian.* 

Amongst  these  same  MSS  will  be  found  a  lease  by  the  abbey  of  St. 
John's  (Colchester)  to  Simon  Wyseman  of  part  of  the  manor  in  1490. 3 

And  amongst  the  Essex  Charters  in  the  Bodleian  is  a  grant  dated  the 
2Oth  July,  1533,  by  Thomas,  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  John's,  Colchester, 
to  Roberd  Braine,  of  Wickham  Skeith,  and  John,  his  son,  of  five  acres  copy- 
hold in  Wickham,  to  be  held  according  to  the  custom  of  the  manor,  paying 
the  usual  rent.4 

MANOR  OF  WICKHAM  CALLED  SKEITH'S  OR  SKEITH  HALL. 

This  appears  to  have  been  the  lordship  of  Robert  de  Ufford  in  1298,* 
for  that  year  he  died  seised  of  the  manor  and  advowson,6  and  is  mentioned 
in  the  inquis.  p.m.  in  1316  of  Robert  de  Ufford  and  Cedelia  his  wife,7  but  we 
find  it  also  mentioned  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Henry  de  Bradenham 
in  1304." 

In  the  time  of  Edw.  III.  the  manor  was  vested  in  John  de  Hemenhale, 
and  on  his  death  in  1347'  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Ralph  Hemenhale, 
who  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here  in  1367. 10  From  this  time  to  the  time 
of  John  de  Hemenhale,  the  idiot,  the  devolution  of  the  manor  is  the  same 
as  that  of  Cotton  Hempnall,  in  Cotton,  in  this  Hundred. 

Amongst  the  Harleian  Charters  is  a  quit  claim  dated  loth  Oct.  4  Hen. 
IV.  [1402]  from  Simon  "  Blyaunt  "  to  Hugh  Lancaster,  clerk,  of  all  right  in 
this  manor  and  the  Manors  of  Bolys  and  Cotton  "  quce  nuper  fuerunt 
domini  Radulphi  Hemenale."  And  further,  from  the  Inquisition  Quod 
Damnum  in  1407  we  learn  that  at  that  date  Isabella,  Countess  of  Suffolk, 
held  the  manor,  "  which  Simon  Blyant  had  sold  to  her,  and  which  late 
belonged  to  Ralph  Hemenhale."  The  manor,  however,  is  mentioned  in  the 

1  iv.  373,  and  D.K.R.,  App.  ii.  p.  86.  7I.P.M.,  10  Edw.  II.  76. 

•Tanner,  cclxxxiv.  82.  "I. P.M.,  32  Edw.  I.  189. 

'Tanner,  cclxxxiv.  8l.  'I.P.M.,   21   Edw.    III.   22. 

4Bodl.  Essex  Ch.  157.  "Chart.   Rolls,  41   Edw.   III.   2. 

'See  Parham  Hall,  Plomesgate  Hundred.  '•  I.Q.D.,  8  Hen.  IV.  6. 
•Extent     I.P.M.,  26  Edw.  I.  32. 


WICKHAM   SKEITH.  337 

inquisition  p.m.  in  1420  of  Sir  Robert  Hemenhale.1    The  fact  is,  there  were 
two  Simon  Blyants,  and  each  had  sons  called  John,  thus  : — 


Ralph  Hemenhale 

Joan  = 

1 
Isabella  = 

1 

=  Walter  Davie, 

Simon  Blyant, 
of  Ringhall, 
1465. 

Jo 

Agi 
d.s 

in  Hemenhale, 

ics,             = 
P- 

\ 
Katherine  =  Simon  Blyant  =*  1st  wife. 

1 
John  Blyant, 
son  and  heir, 
d.s.  p. 

John,  d.  1486. 


John    —     Anne,  dau.  of  Thomas  Jernegan, 

of  John,  son  of  Sir  John  Jermy,  Knt. 


Richard  =  Anne  Shelton. 

We  next  find  the  manor  vested  in  John  de  la  Pole,  Duke  of  Suffolk, 
from  whom  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edmund  de  la  Pole,  Duke  of  Suffolk, 
and  from  him  to  his  widow  Isabella,  Countess  of  Suffolk,  who  held  in  1497. 

In  1572  Sir  James  Wyngfelde  seems  to  have  had  the  manor,  for  that 
year  he  was  called  upon  to  show  by  what  title  he  held.2 

In  1573  the  manor  and  advowson  were  vested  in  Richard  Freston, 
Martin  Calthorp  and  Joan  his  wife,  and  by  a  fine  levied  in  Hilary  (?  Easter) 
term  15  Elizabeth,  they  were  conveyed  to  Edward  Huggens,  Thomas  Cordell, 
Robert  Heath,  and  John  Sulyard.  There  is  an  exemplification  of  this 
fine  24th  Jan.  22  Jac.  I.,  amongst  the  Bodleian  Norf.  Charters.3 

The  manor  later  became  vested  in  John  Tirrell,  from  whom  it  passed 
to  Sir  Edward  Cleere,  as  appears  from  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time 
of  Queen  Elizabeth,  where  we  find  an  action  to  establish  custom  of  the  manor 
of  "  Skeith  in  Wickham  "  by  John  Godard  and  other  copyholders  against 
Sir  Edward  Cleere,  "  lord  of  the  manor  and  successor  to  John  Tirrell."4 

Other  Chancery  actions  are  John  Brame  v.  John  Bedwall,  touching 
the  site  of  Wickham  Hall5 ;  John  Bedwall  v.  John  Brame6 ;  Ellis  Brame  v. 
Martin  Calthorpe,  touching  offices  of  bailiff  of  the  manor,7  and  Robert 
Copping  v.  John  Brame,  touching  bailwick  of  the  manor.8 

In  1840  the  manor  was  vested  in  Castell  Gerrard  and  Harriet  Maria 
his  wife,  who  held  a  court  loth  March  this  year. 

Releases  of  this  manor  will  be  found  amongst  the  Harleian  Charters 
in  the  British  Museum  as  follows  :  1369,  Harl.  54  G.  50  ;  1402,  Harl.  46  E. 
40  ;  1403,  Harl.  47  B.  15,  53  E.  35,  36  ;  1469,  Harl.  43  G.  36. 


•I.P.M.,  8  Hen.  V.  65.  JC.P.  ser.  ii.  B.  x.  46. 

« Memoranda  Rolls,  14  Eliz.  HiL  Rec.  Rot.  6  Ib.  B.  viii.  82. 

81.  'Ib.  B.  x.  65. 

3  Bodl.  Norf.  Ch.  252.  "  Ib.  B.  xlii.  19. 
4C.P.  iii.  127. 

TI 


338  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

WORTH  AM. 

HERE  were  several  manors  in  this  place  in  Saxon  times. 
One  was  held  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  by  Modgeva, 
a  freewoman  under  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of  St. 
Edmunds,  and  consisted  of  i£  carucates  of  land,  18  bordars, 
2  serfs,  2  ploughteams  in  demesne  and  2  belonging  to  the 
men,  wood  sufficient  to  support  10  hogs,  and  2  acres  of 
meadow.  Of  live  stock  there  was  a  rouncy,  3  beasts,  20 
hogs,  and  20  goats,  valued  at  405.  This  land  Modgeva  could  neither  sell 
nor  give  away  from  the  church.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  the  manor 
was  held  of  Ralph  de  Bellafago  by  Richard  de  St.  Clair,  and  was  valued 
at  iocs.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  abbot. 

In  the  same  township  was  another  manor  held  in  the  Confessor's  time 
by  Godgeva,  a  freewoman  under  the  commendation,  soc,  and  sac  of  the 
Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds.  It  consisted  of  80  acres,  6  bordars,  i  ploughteam 
(which  had  disappeared  at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  and  I  belonging  to  the 
men.  Also  4  acres  of  meadow,  valued  at  205.  There  were  also  2  churches, 
with  40  acres,  valued  at  75.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  this  manor  was  held 
by  Ralph  de  Bellafago. 

In  the  same  township  was  an  estate  held  by  Richard  de  St.  Clair  of 
Ralph  de  Bellafago,  consisting  of  90  acres,  3  ploughteams,  and  an  acre  of 
meadow,  valued  at  135.  This  was  formerly  held  by  14  freemen  under 
commendation  to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds.1 

There  were  other  manors  among  the  possessions  of  the  Abbot  of  St. 
Edmunds  at  the  time  of  the  Survey.  One  estate  was  held  as  two  manors, 
and  consisted  of  60  acres,  8  bordars,  2£  ploughteams  4  acres  of  meadow, 
and  wood  to  support  14  hogs,  the  whole  valued  at  2os.  This  had  formerly 
been  held  by  two  socmen. 

The  other  manor  consisted  of  30  acres,  4  bordars,  i  ploughteam,  and 
an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  IDS.  This  had  formerly  been  held  by 
Alfah,  a  freeman  under  the  abbot's  soc  and  commendation. 

Another  holding  was  that  of  Uluric,  a  freeman,  in  the  time  of  the  Con- 
fessor. It  consisted  of  30  acres  under  the  abbot's  soc  and  commendation, 
6J  bordars,  i  ploughteam  in  demesne  and  half  belonging  to  the  men,  and 
an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  IDS. 

Another  holding  was  of  25  freemen  having  3  carucates  of  land,  and  6 
ploughteams,  valued  at  305.,  the  soc  and  commendation  belonging  to  the 
abbot.  It  was  a  league  long  and  10  quarentenes  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt 


Robert  Malet  had  two  estates  in  this  place  at  the  time  of  the  Survey. 
One  consisted  of  4  acres,  valued  at  8d.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King 
and  Earl.  This  was  formerly  held  by  Algar,  a  freeman  under  commenda- 
tion to  Edric.  The  second  consisted  of  20  acres,  2  bordars,  half  a  plough- 
team,  an  acre  of  meadow,  and  wood  sufficient  to  support  6  hogs  (at  the  time 
of  the  Survey  for  2  only),  valued  at  55.  In  the  time  of  the  Confessor  this 
was  held  by  Siric,  a  freeman  under  Stigand,  and  under  him  were  three 
freemen  with  6  acres,  the  soc  belonging  to  Stigand.3  The  Survey  also 
mentions  here  a  holding  without  land,  a  freeman,  Coleman,  held  by  Aubrey 
de  Vere.4 

1  Dom.  ii.  354*.  » Dom.  ii.  361. 

1  Dom.  ii.  3206,  322*.  4  Dom.  ii.  418. 


WORTHAM.  339 

WORTHAM  HALL  MANOR. 

This  was  the  estate  of  Modgeva,  a  freewoman  in  the  time  of  the  Con- 
fessor, and  of  Richard  de  St.  Clair,  holding  under  Ralph  de  Bellafago  at  the 
time  of  the  Great  Survey.  By  the  time  when  Sampson  de  Tokington  was 
made  abbot  in  1182  the  main  lordship  of  the  parish  had  become  vested  in 
the  abbey  of  St.  Edmunds,  and  Sampson,  the  abbot,  enfeoffed  Osbert  de 
Wachesham  in  the  half  of  the  parish  with  Marlingford  in  Norfolk,  which 
was  to  be  held  of  him  and  his  heirs  at  one  fee,  he  paying  to  every  scutage 
2os.,  and  castle  guard  to  Norwich  Castle  ;  two  parts  of  it  were  laid  at 
Marlingford  and  a  third  here. 

The  Testa  de  Nevill  states  that  Giles  de  Wachesham  held  a  fourth 
part  of  a  knight's  fee  in  Wortham  of  Bury  abbey,1  and  it  also  mentions 
that  this  manor  was  taken  into  the  King's  hands  on  the  death  of  Giles  de 
Wachesham.* 

In  1247  Giles,3  son  and  heir  of  Osbert  de  Wachesham,  had  a  charter  of 
free  warren  in  the  manor.  He  held  the  manor  partly  in  chief  of  the  Abbot 
of  St.  Edmunds  by  the  service  of  izd.  and  quarter  of  a  knight's  fee,  and 
the  residue  of  the  barony  of  Le  Ryly  by  the  service  of  a  quarter  of  a  knight's 
fee.  Giles  de  Wachesham  died  in  1267*  and  the  manor  passed  to  his  son 
and  heir,  Sir  Giles  de  Wachesham.  He  it  was  of  whom  Hugh  de  Creeping 
held  a  moiety  of  the  Manor  of  Depham,  Norfolk,  "as  of  his  Manor  of 
Wortham  in  Suffolk  "  in  1272.  Sir  Giles  de  Wachesham  died  in  1272, 5 
when  the  manor  passed  to  his  widow  Joan,  and  as  he  left  his  son  and  heir, 
Sir  Gerard  or  Giles  de  Wachesham,  an  infant,  the  manor  was  taken  into 
the  King's  hands,  and  on  the  Close  Rolls  for  1272  is  an  order  to  deliver  to 
Joan  as  dower,  this  manor,  retaining  in  the  King's  hands  in  the  name  of 
custody,  £4.  125.  i$d.  of  the  rent  assize  of  the  free  tenants  until  the  heir  of 
Giles  came  of  age,  as  the  King  assigned  to  Joan  £19.  6s.  2^d.,  in  the  said 
manor,  extended  at  £23.  i8s.  4^.,  as  her  dower  of  the  lands  that  belonged  to 
Giles  extended  at  £57.  i8s.  7$d.6  Giles,  the  son,  inherited.  He  was 
Sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  in  1290,  and  died  in  1294,  leaving  Giles  or 
Gerard  de  Wachesham,  his  son  and  heir,  who  in  1301  settled  the  lordship 
upon  himself  for  life,  and  then  on  Giles  his  son  and  Amicia  or  Amy  his  wife, 
and  their  heirs.  A  fine  for  effecting  this  settlement  was  levied  by  Gerard 
de  Wachesham  against  Giles  de  Wachesham  and  Amicia  his  wife.7 

In  1345  Sir  Robert  de  Wachesham,  cousin  of  the  last  Giles  or  Gerard, 
was  lord  and  patron,  and  it  is  said  that  in  1358  a  fine  was  levied  between 
Sir  Robert  and  Joan  his  wife,  daughter  of  Simon  de  Hetherset,  Ralph  de 
Dunton,  and  others,  whereby  this  lordship,  and  a  moiety  of  the  advowson 
were  settled  on  themselves  and  their  issue,  remainder  to  John  de  Wachesham 
(brother  of  Sir  Robert),  and  Margery  his  wife. 

Sir  Robert  de  Wachesham  left  a  daughter8  Elizabeth,  who  married  Sir 
Thomas  Gerberge  (Gerbridge),  and  it  is  said  by  some  that  he  inherited  in 
her  right. 

The  advowson  of  this  parish  church,  with  the  manor,  was  anciently 
held  in  moieties  ;  and  the  above  Sir  Giles  de  Wachesham,  who  deceased 

1 T.  de  N.  291.  5 1.P.M.,  I  Edw.  I.  9  ;    3  Edw.  I.  28. 

»'T.  de  N.  194.  6  Close  Rolls,  I  Edw.  I.  7. 

3  See  Manor    of    Stanstead,    in    Babergh  7Feet  of  Fines,  29  Edw.  I.  37. 

Hundred,  and  Culpho,  in  Carlford  8Not  an  only  daughter  as  stated  in  vol. 

Hundred.  I,   in    the    account    of    Stanstead 

<  Extent.    I. P.M.,  52  Hen.  III.  14,  or  File  Manor. 

35  (10). 


34o  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

in  1272,  granted  to  William  de  Hereford,  rector,  a  mediety  of  the 
church  of  Wortham,  Richard,  son  of  Hervy  Ingald,  with  all  his  family, 
and  all  his  chattels,  for  two  marks  ;  and  the  said  William,  who  had  purchased 
him,  made  him  and  all  his  descendants  free,  on  condition  that  he  and  his 
successors  for  ever  should  pay  a  penny  a  year  to  the  church  of  St.  Mary, 
at  Wortham,  upon  the  day  of  the  Nativity  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  at  the  high 
altar,  to  find  a  light  at  that  altar  ;  and  to  the  said  William  and  his  succes- 
sors three  roots  or  races  of  ginger  every  Michaelmas-day. 

We  find  that  in  1340  Robert  de  Wachesham  and  Joan  his  wife  levied 
a  fine  of  the  manor,  in  which  William  de  Hederset,  parson  of  Attelburgh 
church,  and  Walter  Laurenz,  parson  of  Neuelton  church,  were  deforciants.' 
Sir  Robert  died  in  1366,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  widow  Joan  in 
dower.  And  in  1379  there  is  a  fine  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  and  advow- 
son  levied  by  William  Hare  and  Robert  Wayte  against  John  Blundell 
and  Avicia  his  wife,  which  George  Felbrigg  and  Margery  his  wife  held  for 
Margery's  life." 

And  in  1383  another  fine  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  was  levied,  in  which 
Sir  Edmund  de  Thorp,  Sir  Robert  Corbet,  Andrew,  parson  of  the  church 
of  Mateshale,  and  Thomas  Moreyn,  of  Langele,  were  petitioners,  and  Sir 
Thomas  "  Gerberge  "  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  were  deforciants,  in  which  it 
is  stated  that  it  relates  to  the  moiety  which  George  and  Margery  de  Felbrigge 
held  for  the  life  of  Margery.3  It  seems  pretty  clear  from  these  fines  that  the 
manor  had  gone  to  two  coheiresses,  Margery  married  to  Sir  George  Felbrigge, 
and  Elizabeth,  married  to  Sir  Thomas  Gerberge.  In  1384  Sir  George  and  his 
lady  acquired  the  moiety  of  Sir  Thomas  Gerberge  and  Elizabeth,  the  former 
being  petitioners  and  the  latter  deforciants  in  a  fine  levied  this  year  of  a 
moiety  of  the  manor.4 

This  year  Sir  George  Felbrigg  had  a  grant  of  free  warren  here.5  From 
the  time  of  Sir  George  Felbrigg  to  the  time  of  Sir  Henry  Felton,  who 
inherited  in  1613,  and  was  created  a  baronet  in  1620,  the  devolution  of  the 
manor  is  the  same  as  that  of  Playford,  in  Carlford  Hundred.  The  manor  is 
specifically  referred  to  in  the  inquisition  p.m.  of  Thomas  Sampson,  who  died 
in  1483,"  and  amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum  is  a 
deed  indented  by  which  Thomas  Sampson,  Thomas  Fastolf,  Sir  John 
Windham,  and  John  Fastolf,  grant  to  John  Gentilman,  clerk,  the  manor, 
and  also  a  moiety  of  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Wortham  in  perpetuity.7 
The  deed  is  dated  3rd  July,  16  Hen.  VII.  [1501]. 

On  the  death  of  Sir  Henry  .Felton,  ist  Bart.,  the  manor  vested  in 
Elizabeth,  Lady  Felton,  Dorothy,  Lady  Felton,  John  Gosnold,  and  Bassing- 
bourne  Gawdy,  as  guardians  of  Sir  Henry  Felton,  Bart.,  the  son  being  a 
minor.  This  Sir  Henry  and  Susan  his  wife  sold  the  manor  to  Samuel 
Algatt  or  Aldgatt,  for  £1,635,  by  an  agreement  made  by  indenture  dated 
20th  Oct.  1651,'  and  the  conveyance  was  effected  by  deed  dated  2Oth 
Nov.  1651.' 

An  exemplification  of  a  Common  Recovery  dated  28th  Nov.  1651,  con- 
sequent upon  this  sale,  will  be  found  amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in 
the  British  Museum.10  On  Samuel  Algatt's  death  the  manor  passed  to  his 

1  Feet  of  Fines,  14  Edw.  III.  4.  «I.P.M.,  2  Rich.  III.  35. 

'Feet  of  Fines,  3  Rich.  II.  2.  ?Add.  Ch.  5099. 

1  Feet  of  Fines,  7  Rich.  II.  20.  "Add.  Ch.  5108. 

Feet  of  Fines,  6  Rich.  II.  7.  »  Add.  Ch.  5110. 

J Chart.  Rolls,    7  and  8  Rich.  II.  8.  "Add.  Ch.  5111. 


WORTHAM.  341 

niece  and  heir,  Elizabeth,  the  wife  of  Edmund  Clench,  of  Great  Bealings,  who 
by  an  indenture  dated  i6th  Oct.  13  Car.  II.  [1661]  covenanted  to  levy  a  fine 
"  surconuzance  de  droit  come  ceo  "  to  William  Blomfield,  of  Stonham,  and 
Thomas  Brooke,  of  Ipswich,  of  the  manor  in  trust  to  the  only  use  and  behoof 
of  the  said  Edmund  Clench  and  Elizabeth,  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies.1 

In  1668  Edmund  Clench  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  mortgaged  the  manor 
for  £600  to  Edward  Sheppard.  This  was  effected  by  lease  and  release 
dated  I4th  and  i6th  May,  1668.*  The  mortgagee,  Edward  Sheppard, 
described  as  of  Ipswich,  made  his  will  dated  26th  Feb.  i677,3  by  which  he 
devised  the  manor  to  his  widow  Elizabeth  for  life.  Her  will  is  dated  26th 
Feb.  'i689.4  I*1  ^9°  Edmund  Clench  having  died,  his  widow  Mary  (?  Eliza- 
beth) and  William  Clench  sold  the  equity  of  redemption  of  the  manor  for 
£156  to  Gilbert  Nussey,  of  Ipswich.  The  deed  is  dated  2oth  Nov.  i69o.5 
A  deed  of  confirmation  and  release  by  William  and  Thomas  Sheppard  of  the 
manor  to  Gilbert  Nussey  bears  date  loth  May,  1693,  and  is  sealed  with 
two  small  seals  bearing  a  double-headed  eagle  displayed.6 

In  1693  Gilbert  Nussey  mortgaged  the  manor  to  John  Dameron  for 
£700.  The  deed  is  dated  I3th  May,  1693,  and  is  sealed  with  a  seal  bearing 
a  heart  pierced  by  three  arrows.7 

A  second  mortgage  was  made  of  the  manor  by  Gilbert  Nussey  to  William 
Lynch,  of  Ipswich,  for  £250.  The  security  was  effected  by  lease  and  release 
of  the  8th  and  gth  May,  1694,  and  is  sealed  with  a  seal  of  arms  :  "  Per 
fesse  dancette,  3  battle  axes  palewise."8 

Yet  a  third  mortgage  was  made  for  £300  to  John  Pistor  by  deeds  dated 
ist  and  2nd  May,  i695,9  and  by  deeds  dated  6th  and  7th  Nov.  1695,  John 
Dameron,  William  Lynch,  and  John  Pistor  join  with  Gilbert  Nussey  in  a 
mortgage  to  James  Gibson  for  £650.'°  By  deeds  dated  8th  and  gth  Nov. 
1695,  Gilbert  Nussey  conveyed  the  manor  to  James  Gibson  absolutely  for  the 
sum  of  £584.  IDS.,"  and  by  deed  dated  5th  Dec.  1695,  Lawrence  Nussey 
released  all  his  interest  in  the  manor  to  the  said  James  Gibson.12 

James  Gibson  died  about  1701,  leaving  an  infant  daughter  and  heir, 
Susan,  to  whom  the  manor  passed,  and  amongst  the  Add.  Charters  in  the 
British  Museum  is  an  indenture  by  which  Barnaby  Gibson,  of  Little  Stonham, 
and  Richard  Jaques,  of  Wetheringsett,  clerk,  executors  of  the  will  of  James 
Gibson  and  guardians  of  Susan,  his  daughter,  granted  a  lease  of  Wortham 
Hall,  with  all  its  appurtenances  for  15  years  at  the  rent  of  £70  to  Henry 
Rixe,  of  Palgrave.  The  lease  bears  date  2gth  Sept.  1702. 13  Barnaby  Gibson 
was  the  brother  of  James. 

In  1764  the  manor  belonged  to  Edmund  Jenney  and  later  was  pur- 
chased by  -  -  Hyde,  of  Lexham  Hall,  who  afterwards  sold  the  same  to 
John  Copping,  an  attorney  of  Harleston,  in  Norfolk. 

The  manor  was  offered  for  sale  in  1782,  when  it  was  stated  that  the  quit 
rents  (and  fines  upon  an  average)  amounted  to  £49.  75.  6d.  The  Wortham 
Hall  Farm  amounted  to  i87a.  I3p.  let  at  a  rent  of  £160  ;  the  woods  called 
the  Further  and  the  Partable  Woods,  amounting  to  28  acres,  were  valued 
at  £14  ;  also  a  farm,  hall,  barns,  malt  office,  &c.,  in  Little  Stonham  and 
Great  Stonham,  amounting  to  288a.,  let  at  £205  ;  also  a  farm  in  Redisham 
(which  paid  a  modus  of  id.  a  year  in  lieu  of  tithes)  amounting  to  943.  3r.  I2p., 

'Add.  Ch.  5112.  8Add.  Ch.  5125,  5126. 

'Add.  Ch.  5114,  5115,  5116.  9 Add.  Ch.  5127,  5128. 

J Add.   Ch.  5117.  '"Add.  Ch.  5129,  5130. 

^ Add.  Ch.  5119.  "Add.  Ch.  5131,  5132. 

5 Add.  Ch.  5120,  5121.  "Add.  Ch.  5133. 

6  Add.  Ch.  5122.  '3  Add.  Ch.  5134. 

?  Add.  Ch.  5123,  5124. 


343  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

let  at  £70  ;  and  a  farm  in  Willisham,  containing  84  acres,  let  at  £50.' 
The  manor  farm  called  Wortham  Hall,  with  270  acres,  was  subsequently 
sold  by  itself.*  It  was  then  the  property  of  the  Harrisons,  and  was  sold 
by  them  to  Mr.  Wilkinson,  a  son  of  the  rector  of  Redgrave.  This  farm  was 
again  sold  at  Diss  in  March,  1832,  for  £9,000,  the  timber  to  be  taken  at  a 
valuation.1  It  was  again  offered  for  sale  2Qth  Sept.  1848.' 

In  1805  the  manor  was  vested  in  the  Rev.  George  Betts,  and  passed 
from  him  to  the  Rev.  Thomas  D'Eye  Betts,  rector  of  Martlesham,  who 
married  Harriet,  daughter  of  the  Rev.  George  Clarke  Doughty,  of  Theberton 
Hall,  who  died  in  1859,  an<^  whose  will  was  proved  at  Ipswich  26th  April, 
1860.  He  devised  the  manor  to  his  widow  for  life,  with  remainder  to  his 
son,  Major  George  Betts.  Mrs.  Harriet  Betts  died  3oth  Apl.  1874,  when  the 
manor  vested  in  her  son.  He  made  his  will  dated  I7th  Aprfl,  1878,  and 
proved  at  Bury  i6th  Aug.  1883,  and  the  manor  passed  under  a  general 
devise  therein — apparently  under  the  will  of  the  testator's  sister,  Katherine. 
Harriet  Betts  became  lady  of  the  manor,  and  on  her  death  it  was  sold. 
It  was,  on  i4th  June,  1907,  offered  for  sale  by  Dame  Fanny  Augusta  Cowper 
Walker,  and  Mr.  Beaumont,  of  Coggeshall,  became  the  purchaser  for  £450. 

Abstracts  of  the  customs,  &c.,  of  the  manor  (i6th  century)  will  be  found 
amongst  the  Additional  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum.3 

There  is  a  feoffment  of  "  Wortham  Manor  "  in  1501  amongst  the 
Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.6 

Wortham  Hall  is  an  ancient  mansion  situated  in  a  well-timbered 
park,  the  gardens  and  plantations  being  tastefully  laid  out,  and  the  Waveney 
flows  through  the  grounds.  It  is  stated  to  have  been  the  seat  of  the  Betts 
family  since  the  year  1490,  but  probably  1790  would  be  nearer  the  truth  ! 

Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth 
is  an  action  by  John  Parker  and  Alice  his  wife  against  Henry  Nune,  touching 
copyholds  of  this  manor.7 

The  fines  of  the  manor  are  arbitrary  on  death  or  alienation,  and  the 
present  particulars  of  the  manor  are  : — 

Tenants  on  Court  Rolls.  Admitted.  Description.  Rents. 

i    s.     H. 

1.  John  Josiah  Rash         zpth  Apl.  1907 Cottages    (oa.   ir.  I4p.)  Quit  Rent     ..     o    o       2 

a.     r.    p. 

2.  Lopham  Town  Lands      300      Quit  Rent       o    2     4 

.1.   Hannah  Copping   Free  Rent       o    o     h 

4.  Robert  Mackley  Copley loth  May.   1907     18     o    o       Quit  Rent       o  18     8J 

5.  William  Wcedon    060  034 

6.  Ann  Everett       Ack.  Free  Ten.  9th  July, 

1900 Free  Rent       o    o  6 

Ditto  Pitto        o     i  6 

7.  Sidney  Witton    l6th  May.   1907     3     120       Quit  Rent    016  6 

8.  Rev.  Edw.  T.  Frere     Ack.  141  h  Dec.   1896     Free  Rent o    o  i 

9.  Alfred  Cooper    Ack.  Free  Ten.  1 5th  Feb. 

1897 • Ditto        o     i     o 

10.  Gen.  the  Hon.  A.  H.  Menniker      nth  Sept.   1871     42     2     o      and  Tenement.    Quit  Rent     i   13     4 

11.  Toon.  E.  Cracknel!        1st  Nov.  1904     41     i   28       .mil  Messuage  and  2  Tene- 

ments   and    other  lands. 

Quit    Rent       2     7     4 

l*tto  Ditto        Free  Rent        015     .• 

12.  H.  J.  B.  Darby    ".1st  Feb.  1900 720      Quit   Rent       o     211 

1 3.  James  Pearce     600      Ditto        oOy 

14.  Chariot  Tacon    Ack.  Free  Ten.  29th  Dec. 

1899 Free  Rent       o     5     o 

1 5.  Wortham  Town  Lands    200      Quit  Rent       o     3     3 

16.  John  W.  Cross 2Oth  Oct.   1898 2     i     o      Pitto        o     2    6 

Ditto    Uitto       Free    Rent      o    o    4 


Total  Rental £&     i   2j 

Arms  of  GIBSON  :  Azure,  three  herons  rising  proper. 

'Ipswich  Journal,  igth  Oct.  1782.  'Add.  31970. 

1  Ipsvich  Journal,  3rd  June,  1830.  'Add.  Ch.  5099. 

>  Ipswich  Journal,  ijtii  March,  1832.  'C.P.  ser.  ii.  B.  cxxxix.  40. 

'Ipswich  Journal,  Qth  Sept.  1848. 


WORTHAM.  343 

MANOR  OF  WORTHAM  ABBOT'S. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds,  and  passed  in  the 
same  way  to  the  Wacheshams  as  the  main  manor  until  the  death  of  Sir 
Robert  de  Wachesham  in  1366,  when,  or  a  little  later,  it  appears  to  have 
gone  to  the  Crown,  for  we  find  that  in  1545  it  was  granted  to  Sir 
Nicholas  Bacon. 

Particulars  for  the  grant  are  still  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office.1 
Sir  Nicholas  Bacon  died  seised  of  the  manor  in  1578-9,  when  it  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  Bart.,  who  died  in  1624,  from  which 
time  the  manor  has  devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Hinderclay, 
in  Blackbourn  Hundred,  and  is  now  vested  in  George  Holt  Wilson,  of  Red- 
grave. 


'37  Hen.  VIII.  D.K.R.  9,  App.  ii.  p.  162. 


344  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

WYVERSTONE. 

HERE  were  three  manors  here  in  Saxon  times,  two  of  which 
belonged  to  Robert  Malet.  One  consisted  of  100  acres,  2 
bordars,  i  serf,  2  ploughteams,  3  acres  of  meadow,  wood 
sufficient  to  support  20  hogs,  2  beasts,  15  hogs,  and  24  goats, 
the  whole  valued  at  205.  It  had  in  the  Confessor's  time 
been  held  by  Alwin,  a  freeman  under  commendation  to 
Edric,  his  wife  being  under  commendation  to  the  Abbot  of 
St.  Edmunds.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  this  manor  was  held  by  Hubert 
of  Robert  Malet,  and  some  of  the  details  had  changed.  The  ploughteams 
had  become  reduced  to  i,  and  then  had  risen  again  to  i£,  a  rouncy  was 
mentioned,  the  beasts  had  increased  to  3,  and  the  hogs  had  become  reduced 

to  10. 

The  soc  belonged  to  the  King  and  Earl.1 

The  second  manor  here  consisted  of  30  acres,  half  a  ploughteam  (which 
had  disappeared  at  the  time  of  the  Survey),  valued  at  55.  It  had  formerly 
been  held  by  certain  freemen,  3  brothers,  and  their  mother.  One  of  them, 
Aluric,  for  the  sixth  part  of  his  holding,  was  under  commendation  to 
Malet's  predecessor,  and  Achi,  the  predecessor  of  Robert  the  Blond,  had 
five  parts  of  the  commendation  over  him.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey 
Hubert  held  this  of  Robert  Malet,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  Earl. 

In  this  place  also  were  several  other  holdings  of  Robert  Malet.  One 
was  of  16  acres  of  land  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  35.,  held  at  the  time 
of  the  Survey  by  the  said  Hubert,  and  formerly  by  a  freeman  half  under  com- 
mendation to  the  abbot  and  half  under  sub-commendation  to  Malet's 
predecessor.  The  soc  belonged  to  the  King  and  Earl. 

Another  consisted  of  3  acres,  valued  at  6d.,  held  by  Alflet,a  freewoman 
under  sub-commendation  to  Malet's  predecessor,  and  held  over  her  by 
Hubert ;  another  was  of  3  acres,  valued  at  6d.,  held  by  a  freeman  under 
sub-commendation.  Yet  another  holding  of  Robert  Malet's  was  an  estate 
consisting  of  67  acres,  i  ploughteam  (reduced  to  half  a  team  at  the  time  of 
the  Survey),  and  wood  sufficient  to  support  4  hogs,  the  value  being  6s.  Sd. 
It  had  formerly  been  held  by  four  freemen,  Woolmar,  Alfleda,  Ulwin, 
Alwin,  Alflet,  and  Alwin  under  commendation  to  Malet's  predecessor. 
Over  Ulwin  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  had  three  parts  of  the  commendation. 
The  King  and  Earl  had  the  soc,  except  over  the  one,  who  was  under  the 
abbot's  commendation,  so  far  as  relates  to  three  parts  of  the  com- 
mendation.* 

The  third  manor  had  been  held  in  the  Confessor's  day  by  Lewin  the 
Bald,  and  consisted  of  a  carucate  of  land,  4  bordars,  2  ploughteams  in 
demesne  and  half  a  team  belonging  to  the  men,  3  acres  of  meadow,  and 
wood  sufficient  to  support  40  hogs.  Also  a  church  with  16  acres,  and  half 
a  ploughteam. 

There  were  also  a  rouncy,  3  beasts,  12  goats,  and  10  hogs,  valued  at 
305.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  this  manor  was  held  by  Hubert  de  Monte 
Cancsio,  and  some  of  the  appurtenances  were  altered.  The  bordars  were 
reduced  to  3,  the  ploughteams  had  come  down  to  i,  then  risen  to  i£,  and 
there  was  wood  to  support  only  20  hogs.  Hubert  de  Canesio  had  also  one 
estate  here  of  37  acres,  and  i  ploughteam,  valued  at  ios.,  held  of  him  by 
Richard,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  Earl.  It  had  formerly  been  held 

1  Dom.  ii  3216.  «  Dom.  ii.  3216. 


WYVERSTONE.  345 

by  six  freemen  under  Lewin's  commendation.  It  (but  what  does  not  appear 
clear)  was  a  league  long,  and  4^  quarentenes  broad,  and  paid  in  a  gelt  8^.' 

Among  the  lands  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmunds  were  19  acres  held  of 
him  by  Robert  the  Blond,  which  Grim,  a  freeman,  had  previously  held 
under  the  commendation  and  soc  of  the  abbot.  Also  wood  to  support  2 
hogs  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  40^.* 

Among  the  lands  of  the  fee  of  St.  Edmunds  were  two  holdings.  One  con- 
sisted of  75  acres,  a  villein,  2  bordars,  i£  ploughteams,  wood  to  support 
4  hogs,  and  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  135.  It  was.  held  by  6  freemen 
under  the  abbot's  soc  and  commendation.3 

The  other  consisted  of  i6J  acres,  valued  at  35.,  formerly  held  by  four 
freemen  under  commendation.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  Richard  held 
over  them.4 

Among  the  lands  of  Robert  the  Blond  was  a  holding  in  this  place  of  30 
acres,  half  a  ploughteam  (which  was  not  mentioned  in  the  Survey),  wood 
sufficient  to  support  2  hogs,  and  hall  an  acre  of  meadow,  valued  at  55. 

R.Ovethel  held  this  of  Robert  the  Blond,  and  it  had  in  the  Confessor's 
time  been  held  by  two  freemen  under  Achi's  commendation.5 

Among  the  lands  of  Earl  Ralph  kept  in  hand  for  the  King  by  Goodrich 
the  steward,  was  a  small  holding  of  8  acres,  valued  at  i6d.,  held  by  a  freeman 
under  Burchard's  commendation.6 

Hugh  de  Montfort  had  a  small  estate  in  this  place,  held  by  Hervey, 
consisting  of  2  freemen  formerly  under  commendation  to  Burchard,  with 
18  acres,  wood  sufficient  to  support  2  hogs,  valued  at  45.  $d.7 

MANOR  OF  WYVERSTONE. 

Davy  considers  that  this  was  the  estate  of  Alwin  in  the  Confessor's  time 
and  of  Robert  Malet  in  Norman  days.  Richard  Hovel  held  under  Malet 
and  the  family  retained  the  estate  for  about  300  years.  Richard  Hovel 
also  held  land  here  under  the  Abbot  of  Bury  and  the  Domesday  of  all  the 
Manors  of  St.  Edmund  states  that  at  "  Wiverston"  were  £g.  los.  (rental)  from 
no  acres  of  land,  of  which  Richard  Hoverel  (Hovel)  held  5^  of  St.  Edmund 
and  Baldwin  the  abbot.  He  gave  certain  tithes  to  the  priory  of  Eye,  a 
gift  which  was  confirmed  by  Hen.  I.,  and  afterwards  by  King  Stephen. 
Robert  Malet  by  his  charter  of  the  foundation  of  the  Conventual  church  of 
Eye  confirmed  to  the  monks  there  the  gift  which  Richard  Hovel  gave  to 
them  of  two  parts  of  his  tithes  in  Wyverstone.  King  Henry  also  confirmed 
to  them  the  tithe  of  Richard  Ho  veil  at  Wyverstone.  King  Stephen  made 
a  similar  confirmation.8  An  account  of  the  Hovel  family  of  Wyverstone, 
from  the  earliest  time  is  given  in  the  exceptionally  valuable  and 
accurate  work  of  Mr.  J .  J .  Muskett,  "  Suffolk  Manorial  Families."9  Richard 
Hovel  was  succeeded  by  his  son  and  heir,  Richard  Hovel,  living  in  the  time 
of  King  Hen.  II.,  and  he  by  his  son,  Robert  Hovel,  in  the  reign  of  King 
Stephen,  and  he  by  his  son,  Adam  Hovel,  in  the  time  of  King  Hen.  II. 
and  King  John,  and  he  by  his  son,  Ralph  Hovel,  whose  widow  Alice  in  1229 
claimed  dower.  Ralph  was  succeeded  by  his  son,  Robert  Hovel,  who  held 
the  Manor  of  Weston  Horpole  and  Istede,  with  this  manor  with  two-thirds 
of  a  knight's  fee  in  Westhorpe  and  lands  in  Cheston  between  the  years 

'Dom.  ii.  436.  6Dom.  ii.  286. 

*Dom.  ii.  370.  7Dom.  ii.  408. 

3 Dom.  ii.  370.  "Reg.  Prior  de  Eya,  fol.  17,  21. 

4 Dom.  ii.  371.  'Vol.  ii. 

JDom.  ii.  440. 

V  I 


346  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

1225  and  1258.'  In  1231  he  had  the  King's  licence  to  hunt  foxes  and  hares 
in  the  forest  of  Essex,  and  a  grant  of  free  warren  in  his  Manor  of  Wyverstone, 
with  a  fair  there  yearly,  lasting  three  days,  and  a  market  every  week  on 
Tuesday.*  Amongst  the  Harleian  Charters  in  the  British  Museum  is  one 
of  1272,  confirming  the  licence  relating  to  Wyverstone,3  to  Robert,  son  of 
the  last-named  Robert  Hovel. 

This  Robert,  son  of  Robert,  died  before  1287,  when  the  manor  passed 
to  his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Hovel,  who  died  before  1292,  when  the  manor 
passed  to  his  brother,  Sir  Hugh  Hovel,  then  under  age. 

Sir  Hugh  Hovel  was  returned  as  lord  of  Wyverstone  in  1316,  and  sum- 
moned in  1324  as  knight  for  Suffolk  to  attend  the  Great  Council  at  West- 
minster 17  Edw.  II.4  He  died  before  1339,  when  a  third  of  the  manor  passed 
to  his  widow  Agnes  in  dower  for  life,  and  subject  thereto  vested  in  his  son 
and  heir,  Robert  Hovel.  He  died  before  1342,  leaving  an  infant  heir, 
Robert  Hovel.  What  happened  on  the  death  of  Robert  Hovel,  the  father, 
is  fully  disclosed  by  the  Close  Rolls  in  1342.  There  we  meet  with  an  order 
to  the  escheator  to  retain  in  the  King's  hands  two  parts  of  the  manor,  and 
not  intermeddle  with  a  third  part,  or  with  the  advowson  assigned  as  dower 
to  Agnes,  late  wife  of  Hugh  Hovel,  it  having  been  shown  that  John  de 
Eltham,  Earl  of  Cornwall,  demised  the  manor,  which  came  into  his  hands 
on  the  death  of  Robert  Hovel,  who  held  it  of  the  Earl  as  of  the  Honor  of 
Eye  by  knight's  service  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  Robert's  heir  to 
Walter  de  Wauncey  for  eight  years,  and  the  term  having  elapsed,  the  custody 
pertained  to  the  King  as  the  Earl's  executor,  and  it  also  appearing  that 
Agnes  had  recovered  the  said  third  part  and  the  advowson  with  appur- 
tenances in  Wyverstone,  Westhorpe,  Finningham,  and  Baketon,  against 
Robert  de  Tudeham,  parson  of  Ereswell,  Walter  de  Wauncey,  parson  of 
Grundesburgh,  and  Hugh  de  Wauncey  as  her  dower,  a  third  part  of  the  said 
manor.5  Robert  Hovel  the  son  died  about  1346,  when  the  manor  passed  to 
his  son  and  heir,  Robert  Hovel,  who  is  stated  to  have  held  a  knight's  fee 
in  Wyverstone  and  died  apparently  without  issue  before  1382. 

A  third  of  the  manor  passed  in  dower  to  his  widow  Alice,  who 
remarried  John  Crulle,  and  they  together  sold  the  same  to  Thomas 
Monchensy  for  an  annuity  in  1389,  in  which  year  a  fine  was  duly  levied  of 
the  manor  between  this  Thomas  Monchensy  and  Edmund  Lakynghethe 
and  John  Crulle  and  Alice  his  wife.6  According  to  some  authorities  Sir 
Thomas  de  Monchensy  married  Margaret,  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  Hugh 
Hovel,  the  son  of  Sir  Robert  Hovel  and  Alice  his  wife. 

We  next  find  the  manor  vested  in  William  de  la  Pole,  ist  Duke  of 
Suffolk,  who  died  seised  of  it  in  1450,"  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir, 
John  de  la  Pole,  2nd  Duke  of  Suffolk,  and  from  him  to  Edmund  de  la  Pole, 
2nd  Duke  of  Suffolk  of  new  creation,  who  forfeited  the  manor  and  died  in 


In  1507  the  manor  was  granted  by  King  Hen.  VII.  to  Thomas  Grey, 
Marquis  of  Dorset,  in  tail  male,9  and  by  deed  dated  at  Westminster  the 
26th  Sept.  6  Hen.  VIII.  [1514]  confirmed  by  King  Hen.  VIII.  to  the  Marquis. 
The  deed  included  the  advowson  of  the  church  also.10  It  was,  however, 

'See  for  detailed   account  of  devolution,  'Close  Rolls,  16  Edw.  III.  pt.  i.  I. 

Weston   Market   Manor,  in   Black-  «  Feet  of  Fines,  13  Rich.  II.  10. 

bourn  Hundred.  'I.P.M.,  28  Hen.  VI.,  25. 

•Close  Rolls,  15  Hen.  III.  3.  "I.P.M.,  5  Hen.  VIII.  I. 

'Harl.  58   I.  30  G.  49.  «S.P.  5  Hen.  VIII.  4254. 

•  Parliamentary  Writs,  vol.  ii.  1025.  10  Harl.  43  F.  30. 


WYVERSTONE.  347 

assigned  by  the  Crown  as  part  of  her  dower  to  Margaret  de  la  Pole,  Countess 
of  Suffolk,  the  widow  of  Edmund.  She  died  about  1516. 

The  manor  was  next  granted  to  Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk, 
but  was  exchanged  in  1538  with  the  Crown  for  other  hereditaments.1 

We  find  amongst  the  State  Papers  in  1541  notice  of  a  lease  out  of  the 
Augmentation  Office  to  Robert  Latham,  of  Westhorpe,  of  certain  meadows 
in  Wyverstone  and  Westhorpe,  parcel  of  the  manors  there.2 

In  1558  the  manor  was  granted  to  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,3  and  from  him 
in  1578-9  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  Bart.,  on  whose 
death  in  1624  it  passed  to  Sir  Edmund  Bacon,  Bart. 

The  manor  subsequently  became  vested  in  Thomas  Barnardiston,  from 
whom  it  passed  to  his  daughter  and  coheir  Elizabeth,  married  to  the  Right 
Rev.  John  Ewer,  successively  Bishop  of  Landaff  and  Bangor,  who  sold  the 
manor  to  John  Moseley,  of  Richmond,  in  Surrey.  He  was  the  2nd  son  of 
Thomas  Moseley,  of  Ousden/  by  Judith  his  wife,  sister  of  John  Cory,  of  the 
city  of  London.  He  died  in  1775  without  issue,  when  the  estate,  consisting 
of  this  manor  and  the  advowson,  with  the  Park  farm,  passed  to  the  issue 
of  his  elder  brother  Thomas,  whose  lineal  descendant,  John  Moseley,  of 
Great  Glemham,  held  in  1841  and  in  1853.  The  manor  was  offered  for 
sale  I4th  Aug.  1838, 5  and  again  in  1841.  On  this  last  occasion  it  was 
described  as  extending  over  the  entire  parish  of  Wyverstone  containing 
I3oga.  3r.  3p.,  with  rights,  &c.  The  fines  were  stated  to  be  arbitrary, 
averaging  during  the  then  last  10  years  £65.  6s.  6d.  per  annum.  The  quit 
and  free  rents,  together  with  55.  payable  for  Mr.  Caldicott's  enclosure  of  waste, 
amounted  to  £18.  35.  zd.  per  annum.  The  property  was  not  then  sold,  but 
bought  in  at  £2,150* 

The  manor  is  now  vested  in  Charles  James  Grimwade,  of  Hadleigh. 

The  Estreat  Rolls  of  the  manor  1616  to  1624  are  referred  to  in  the  i3th 
Rep.  of  the  Hist.  Com.7 

MANOR  OF  HOVELLS. 

This  was  the  manor  held  by  the  Hovel  family,  probably  of  the  Abbot  of 
Bury. 

A  rental  and  customary  of  the  lands  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Edmunds 
in  1387  in  Wyverstone  will  be  found  amongst  the  Additional  MSS.  in  the 
British  Museum.8 

In  1428  the  manor  was  vested  in  John  Barham,  Duke  of  Exeter,  and 
subsequently  in  William  de  la  Pole,  ist  Duke  of  Suffolk,  who  died  seised  of 
it  in  1450,  when  it  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  John  de  la  Pole,  2nd  Duke  of 
Suffolk,  and  from  him  probably  to  his  son  and  heir,  Edmund.  We  do  not 
meet  with  it  as  a  separate  manor  later,  and  it  was  most  probably  merged 
in  the  main  manor. 


'  S.P.,  30  Hen.  VIII.  ii.  1182  (l8a).  4See    Manor    of    Ousden,    in    Eisbridge 

•S.P.,  1541,  p.  1500.  Hundred. 

3  See  Memoranda  Rolls  in  1561,  touching  i  Ipswich  Journal,  I4th  July,  1838. 

letters     patent    to     Sir    Nicholas  6  Ipswich  Journal,  3Oth  Oct.  1841. 

Bacon  of  Wyverstone  Manor.     M.  7Pt.  iv.  412. 

3  Eliz.  Hil.  Rec.  Rot.  17.  "Add.  14849. 


348  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

YAXLEY. 

(HERE  was  one  manor  in  this  place  and  Thrandeston  in 
Saxon  times,  held  by  Bishop  Aylmer,  consisting  of  a  carucate 
of  land,  5  bordars,  a  ploughteam,  and  2  acres  of  meadow, 
valued  at  aos.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  the  manor 
was  held  by  William,  Bishop  of  Thetford,  and  belonged 
to  the  church  of  Hoxne.1 

Belonging  to  the  fee  of  the  Bishop  of  Thetford  was  a  holding 
in  this  place  consisting  of  a  carucate  and  19  acres  of  land,  3  ploughteams 
(increased  at  the  time  of  the  Survey  to  3^  teams),  and  2  acres  of  meadow, 
valued  at  45.,  the  soc  and  sac  belonging  to  the  Bishop.  This  was  held  of 
the  Bishop  by  Othenius,  and  at  the  time  of  the  Confessor  it  was  held  by 
40  freemen.1 

Robert  Malet  had  two  small  estates  in  this  place.  The  first  con- 
sisted of  8J  acres,  valued  at  I2d.,  the  soc  belonging  to  the  King  and  Earl. 
Hubert  held  this  over  Malet  (?).  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  Alnod,  a 
freeman,  half  under  commendation  to  Edric.  The  second  consisted  of  15 
acres,  and  half  a  ploughteam,  valued  at  45.,  the  King  and  Earl  having  the 
soc.  At  the  time  of  the  Survey  Robert  Malet's  mother  held  this  of  him  as  of 
the  Queen's  fee.  It  had  formerly  been  held  by  Hagris,  under  commenda- 
tion to  Ulveva.3 

MANOR  OF  YAXLEY. 

This  was  the  lordship  of  William,  Bishop  of  Thetford,  at  the  time  of  the 
Domesday  Survey,  and  was  held  by  Othenius  of  him. 

It  later  vested  in  Roger  de  la  Bruere,  of  Thrandeston,  who  released  to 
the  monks  of  Hoxne  145.  gd.  rent,  two  cocks,  and  six  hens,  which  the  prior 
and  convent  used  to  pay  him  for  their  lands  here  and  gave  them  divers 
villeins  and  their  rents  and  services,  which  constituted  their  manor  in  Yaxley 
which  they  were  to  hold  by  the  payment  of  8s.  a  year  to  the  Bishop,  as 
parson  of  Hoxne,  and  one  penny  a  year  to  his  heirs,  as  superior  lords  of  the 
fee. 

Thomas,  son  of  Sir  Thomas  Crowe,  Knt.,  added  to  it,  as  did  John  le 
May,  Bartholomew  de  Pertrede  of  Mellis,  Thomas  de  Hoxne,  priest,  Thomas 
Pynel,  of  Sutwolde,  priest,  and  Hugh  his  brother,  Agnes,  daughter  of  Roger 
de  Hoxne,  Richard  Schoche,  and  others.  This  manor,  with  the  chapel 
of  Ringshall,  which  was  settled  on  it  by  the  prior  of  Norwich  in  1294,  were 
the  chief  of  its  revenues.  The  almoner  of  the  Cathedral  Priory  at  Norwich 
received  a  temporal  rent  of  135.  $^d.  from  this  parish  by  virtue  of  his  office. 

From  the  Quo  Warranto  Rolls  we  learn  that  the  prior  of  Trinity, 
Norwich,  claimed  view  of  frankpledge  and  assize  of  bread  and  beer  here.* 
The  priors  of  this  cell  prove  the  wills  of  all  the  tenants  of  this  Manor  of 
Yaxley.  In  1546  the  site  of  the  cell  was  granted  with  their  other  revenues, 
to  Sir  Richard  Gresham,  Knt.,  and  with  it  apparently  a  manor  called 
Yaxley.  This  is  the  manor  referred  to  as  "  Yaxley  Manor  "  in  a  fine  levied 
in  1544  by  Sir  Robert  Southwell  against  John  Gresham,  son  and  heir  of  Sir 
Richard  Gresham.5 

The  Manor  of  Yaxley,  as  distinguished  from  that  connected  with 
the  priory,  was  in  1510  vested  in  Edward  Cornwallis,  who  3rd  Sept.  of  this 
year  died  seised,  when  it  passed  to  his  brother  and  heir,  William  Cornwallis.' 

1  Dom.  ii.  379*.  4  Q.W.  725. 

'Dom.  ii.  381.  s  Fine,  Easter.  36  Hen.  VIII. 

JDom.  ii.  3206,  323*.  'I.P.M.,  2  Hen.  VIII. 


YAXLEY. 


349 


The  manor  was  in  the  middle  of  the  i6th  century  vested  in  Anthony 
Yaxley,  eldest  son  of  John  Herberd  alias  Yaxley,  serjeant-at-law,1  son  of 
Richard  Herberd  alias  Yaxley. 

Anthony  Yaxley  lived  at  Mellis,  and  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of 
John  Garneys,  of  Kenton.  Amongst  the  MSS.  of  the  Rev.  William  Henry 
Sewell,  vicar  of  Yaxley,  is  a  deed  of  gift  and  conveyance  of  a  certain  close 
called  Erlysforth  Clos,  near  Erlysforth  Brege,  for  ever  by  this  Anthony 
Yaxley,  of  Mellis,  and  his  son,  Richard  Yaxlee,  son  and  heir  apparent  of  the 
said  Anthony,  to  William  Eglyn,  clerk,  vicar  of  "  Yaxlee."  Thomas  Sherman 
senior,  Thomas  Sherman  junior,  Richard  Sherman,  Thomas  Warde,  John 
Norman,  George  Harbarfet,  Thomas  Crowe,  and  Thomas  Wood ;  the 
said  deed  of  gift  being  made  in  compliance  with  "  cujusdam 
Arbitramenti  per  Thomas  Tyrell  militum,  Robertum  Kene  et  Georgium 
Pulham  generosus  facti  cujus  datum  est  tricesimo  die  Julii  anno  regni 
Regis  Henrici  octavi  tricesimo  octavo."2  Anthony  Yaxley  died  in  1568-9, 
and  was  interred  in  the  parish  church  of  Mellis.  Richard  Yaxley,  his  son 


YAXLEY  HALL,  YAXLEY. 

and  heir,  married  Margaret,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Robert  Stokes,  of 
Bickerton,  co.  York,  and  in  1566  a  fine  was  levied  of  the  manor  against  him 
by  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon.3  Richard  Yaxley  died  the  same  year  in  the  lifetime 
of  his  father,  on  whose  death  the  manor  passed  to  his  grandson,  William 
Yaxley.4  He  is  mentioned  as  of  Yaxley  Hall  in  the  State  Papers  for  1584* 
Amongst  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  the  time  of  Elizabeth  is  an  action 
by  this  William  Yaxley  against  Barbara  Sherman  for  discovery  as  to  lands  held 
by  Thomas  Sherman,  deceased  defendant's  late  husband,  of  the  plaintiff's 
manors  called  "  Yaxle  in  Yaxle,"  Pountney  in  Mellis,  and  Ma  visons  in  Yaxley, 
Mellis  and  Thrandeston.6  William  Yaxley  married  Heva,  daughter  of  Sir 
Henry  Bedingfield,  and  had  issue  four  sons  and  as  many  daughters. 
Margaret,  the  eldest,  married  Sir  Edward  Clere,  of  Ormesby,  in  Norfolk, 
who  was  knighted  by  Queen  Elizabeth  at  Norwich,  in  her  progress  through 


1  Chosen  loth  Sept.  II  Hen.  VII.  1496,  and 

died  igth  July,  1505. 
Jlo  Rep.  Hist.  Com.  pt.  iv.  464. 
3  Fine,  Trin.  8  Eliz. 


« Fine,  6th  May,  9  Eliz.  24. 
'S.P.   1584,  p.   106,  Addenda. 
6C.P.  iii.  323- 


350  THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 

Norfolk,  in  1578,  and  was  honoured  with  a  visit  from  Her  Majesty  at  Wood 
Risings  in  that  county  where  Sir  Edward  then  resided. 

\\illiani  Yaxley  died  in  March,  1588,  and  was  buried  in  Yaxley  church, 
and  two  parts  of  the  manor  passed  to  his  widow,  surviving,  during  her  life, 
and  subject  to  her  interest  the  manor  vested  in  William's  son  and  heir, 
Henry  Yaxley. 

Amongst  the  MSS.  of  the  Rev.  William  H.  Sewell,  vicar  of  Yaxley, 
is  a  deed  dated  27th  June,  32  Elizabeth  [1590]  which  is  a  gift  and  con- 
veyance in  fee  made  outx>f  the  donor's  love  for  the  parish  and  inhabitants 
of  Yaxlee  by  Richard  Dade,of  W'etheringsett,  yeoman,  of  a  certain  meadow 
called  Cookes  Medowe,  in  Yaxlee,  to  Nicholas  Bacon,  Knt.,  Bassingborne 
Gaudye,  Esq.,  Edmund  Bacon,  Esq.,  son  and  heir  apparent  of 
Nicholas  Henry  Yaxlee,  Esq.,  son  and  heir  of  William  Yaxlee,  Esq., 
deceased,  Edward  Yaxley,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  William,  John  Yaxley, 

fentleman,  and  his  son  Nicholas  Yaxley,  John  Osborne,  gentleman,  Thomas 
herman  and  John  Sherman, gentlemen,  sons  of  Thomas  Sherman,  deceased, 
Alexander  Sherman,  gentleman,  Andrew  Fellgate  and  Robert  Fellgate, 
gentlemen,  William  Fellgate,  son  of  -  -  Fellgate,  William  Norman,  and  his 
son  Thomas  Norman,  John  Norman  and  his  son  John  Norman,  Richard 
Fulcher  and  his  son  Richard  Fulcher,  William  Herberd  and  his  son  John 
Herberd,  Roger  Dade,  William  Wrroo,  son  of  Robert  Wroo,  Thomas  Wroo, 
son  of  Thomas  Wroo,  deceased,  and  Richard  Leonard,  and  their  heirs,  &c., 
to  have  and  to  hold  the  said  meadow  in  trust  "  ad  maintencionem  et  sus- 
tentacionem  et  reparacionem  ecclesie  parochialis  ibidem  "  for  ever.' 

In  1600  Henry  Yaxley  resided  at  Borowthorp,  in  Norfolk,  which 
estate  was  afterwards  conveyed  to  Sir  Robert  Yallop,  Knt.,  for  his  services 
in  the  recovery  of  certain  estates  in  Yorkshire,  the  property  of  the  Yaxley 
family,  and  they  probably  removed  thither.  Henry  Yaxley  was  buried  at 
Colneye,  in  Norfolk,  in  1650,  when  the  manor  devolved  on  his  son  and  heir, 
Charles  Yaxley.  Both  Henry  Yaxley  and  Frances  his  wife,  and  Charles, 
his  son,  are  mentioned  in  the  State  Papers  in  1651,  as  recusants,2  and 
amongst  the  same  papers  in  1653  we  find  a  petition  by  Charles  Yaxley,  as 
to  the  title  to  a  manor  in  Yorkshire.3  In  1654  we  find  a  petition  by 
John,  son  of  Andrew  Felgate,  and  others  of  Yaxley,  for  an  order  for  pay ment 
of  an  annuity  on  lands  in  Yaxley,  granted  27  Eliz.  by  William  Yaxley, 
for  the  poor  and  repair  of  highways  and  paid  till  two-thirds  of  lands  seques- 
tered for  recusancy  of  Henry,  son  and  heir  of  William  Yaxley.4  On  the 
death  of  Charles  Yaxley  the  manor  vested  in  Edmund  Yaxley,  who  married 
Philippa,  daughter  of  Sir  George  Reve,  of  Thwaite,  Bart.,  and  died  in  1717. 

The  manor  subsequently  passed  to  Sir  Edward  C.  Kerrison,5  and  has 
since  devolved  in  the  same  course  as  the  Manor  of  Thelnetham,  in  Black- 
bourn  Hundred,  being  now  vested  in  Lady  Bateman. 

Court  Rolls  for  the  manor  10  Rich.  II.  and  i  Hen.  VI.,  will  be  found  in 
the  Public  Record  Office,6  and  also  extracts  from  a  roll  23  Hen.  VIII.  in 
the  same  depository.7 

Grants,  &c.,  of  the  manor  in  1328  and  1335  will  be  found  amongst  the 
Harleian  Charters  in  the  British  Museum." 

'ro  Rep.  Hist.  Com.  pt.  iv.  466.  Journal,  26th  June  and  3rd  July  that 

S.P.,  Cal.  of  Comp.  1651,  p.  2729.  year,  as  to  be  sold  at  the  Angel  Inn, 

J/6.  1653,  p.  2730.  Norwich,  I7th  July,  1813. 

Ib.  1654,  p.  3221.  « Portfolio  204,  27,  28. 

1  It  was  probably  purchased  on  the  sale  in  '  Ib.  26. 

1813    advertised    in    the    Ipswich  '  Harl.  47  D.  45 ;  46  F.  15. 


YAXLEY.  351 

And  amongst  the  same  Charters  a  fine  of  the  manor  in  1342,'  while  a 
compotus  of  the  manor  27  Hen.  VIII.  is  referred  to  in  the  Exchequer  of 
Accounts  in  the  first  Report  on  Public  Records  in  i8oo.a 

Yaxley  Hall  is  a  mansion  in  the  Elizabethan  style  situated  on  rising 
ground  about  half  a  mile  from  the  village.  It  is  the  residence  of  Mrs. 
Welch. 

Arms  of  YAXLEY  :  Ermine,  a  chev.  Sab.  betw.  3  mullets  Gules  pierced 
Or. 

MANOR  OF  BULL'S  HEAD  WITH  BLODGATES  al.  BOLES  MANOR. 

This  was  the  estate  of  Bishop  Aylmer  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor,  and 
was  held  in  the  Conqueror's  day  by  William,  Bishop  of  Thetford,  as  tenant 
in  chief. 

In  the  early  part  of  the  reign  of  Edw.  II.  the  manor  was  in  the 
Crown,  but  in  the  latter  part  we  find  it  in  Sir  William  Bole  or  Bulle. 

In  1320  we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  of  the  manor  by  William  de  Dulyng- 
ham,  parson  of  Mat essale  church,  against  this  William  Bulle,  described  as  of 
Parva  "  Snoryngge."3 

On  the  death  of  Sir  William  Bole  the  manor  passed  to  Joan  his  widow, 
and  there  is  amongst  the  Harleian  Charters  a  deed  of  Joan  in  1328  whereby 
she  demised  to  Robert,  son  of  Herbert  Weylaund,  the  manor.4 

On  Joan's  death  the  manor  passed  to  Sir  William  Bole's  son  and 
heir  John,  and  amongst  the  Harleian  Charters  is  a  deed  by  which  John, 
son  and  heir  of  Sir  William  Bole,  grants  to  Richard,  son  of  Henry  le 
Coillour  of  Hoxne,  chaplain,  and  Richard  de  Blogate,  of  Yaxley,  this 
manor  called  "  manerium  de  Yaxle,"  with  lands  in  Yaxley,  Eye,  Occolte, 
Benyngham,  Redelyngfeld,  Wetheryngsete,  and  Thornham  Parva.  The 
deed  is  dated  at  Yaxley,  8th  July,  9  Edw.  III.5  [1335.] 

Under  this  grant  the  manor  passed  to  Richard  de  Blogate,  and  in  1342 
we  meet  with  a  fine  levied  by  him  and  Geoffrey,  his  son,  and  Matilda, 
daughter  of  Robert  Weylond,  of  Stoke,  against  the  above-mentioned 
John,  son  of  William  Bole,  of  Parva  "  Snoryng,"  and  Agnes  his  wife,  and 
Roger  Sherman,  chaplain.6  By  1367  the  manor  had  passed  to  Sir  Ralph 
de  Hemenhale,  and  this  year  he  had  a  grant  of  free  warren.7 

He  died  in  1370,  when  the  manor  passed  to  his  son  and  heir,  Sir  Robert 
Hemenhale.  In  1389  Sir  Robert  released  to  trustees  this  manor,  and  the 
possessions  of  his  father,  Sir  Ralph.  Sir  Robert  was  the  first  husband  of 
Joan,  daughter  and  heir  of  John  de  la  Pole,  son  of  Sir  William  de  la  Pole 
and  Joan  his  wife,  by  whom  he  had  an  only  son  William. 

Sir  Robert  Hemenhale  died  in  1402,"  and  the  following  year  Sir  Hugh 
Lancaster,  clerk,  conveyed  the  manor  to  Joan,  Lady  Braybroke,  late  wife 
of  Sir  Robert  de  Hemenhale.' 

In  1428  Davy  mentions  two  lords,  John  Blogat  and  Simon  Wiseman. 
In  1583  the  manor  was  vested  in  William  Yaxley  by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied 
by  him  this  year  against  Sir  Thomas  Gawdy  and  others.10 

'Harl.  46  E.  25.  ?  Chart.  Rolls, 

« P.  191.  8 "  Eccles  Manor,  in  Yaxley ;  "    I.P.M.,  8 

s  Feet  of  Fines,  14  Edw.  II.  23.  Hen.  IV.  65. 

4  Harl.  47  D  45.  »  See  Manor  of  Cotton  Hempnall,  in  Cotton, 

i  Harl.  46  F.  13.  in  this  Hundred. 
6  Feet  of  Fines,  16  Edw.  III.  16 ;  Harl.  46        I0  Fine,  Easter,  25  Eliz. 
E.    25. 


352 


THE  MANORS  OF  SUFFOLK. 


In  1808  the  manor  was  vested  in  the  Rev.  John  Thurston  Mott,  of 
Barningham,  co.  Norfolk. 

This  manor  was  in  1829  vested  in  Mr.  Woodrow. 

Page,  writing  in  1847  says  :  '  The  estate  called  '  Buckshall '  in  this 
parish  belongs  to  Sir  Woodbine  Parish,  of  Gloucester  Place,  Portman 
Square,  London." 

Releases  of  this  manor  in  1402  and  1403  will  be  found  amongst  the 
Harleian  Charters  in  the  British  Museum.' 


BULL  HALL  MANOR. 


1  Harl.  46  E.  40 ;  47  B.  15 ;  52  I.  2. 


INDEX  RERUM. 


Abergavenny,  George,  Lord,  in  Great  Favour 

with  Henry  VIII.,  79,  80 
,,  Henry,     Lord,     Committed  for 

striking    the    Earl    of    Oxford 
and  Pardoned,  81 
„  Title  Claimed  by  Frances  Lady 

Fane,  81. 

Action,  Curious,  as  to  Name  of  Ancestors,  116 
Albemarle,  Earls  of,  Account  of,  24,  25 
Alnesbourn  Priory,  Account  of,  71 
Alston  Arms,  139 

„      William,  Inscription  on,  138 
„  „         Pedigree  of,  138*. 

Bardolf  Arms,  30 

„      Thomas  Lord,  Death  and  Attainder  of, 

27 

Barnardiston,  Sir  Samuel,  Part  of,  in  the  Re- 
storation,  113 
,,  ,,          ,,         Trial      of,     before 

Jeffreys,    114 
Beale  Arms,  139 

,,       Bartholomew,  Inscription  on,  138 
Bealings,  Great,  Hall  Pulled  Down,  5 
Beauchamp  Arms,  83 
Beaumont  Arms,  30 

„  Will.  Viscount,  Attainder  and  De- 

privation of,  28 
Beridge  Arms,  206 
Bigot,  Roger,  Inscription  on,  104 
Bishop  Arms,  22 
Blakenham  Arms,  154 
Blenerhassett  Family,   108 

„  Sir  Thomas,  Effigy  of,  108 

Blois  Family,  Account  of,  47,  48 
Blyant  Arms,  254 

„       Pedigree,  337 
Bohun  Arms,  157 
Bokenham  Arms,  315 

Bonaparte,  Joseph,  resides  at  Brettenham,  142 
Botetourt  Arms,  281 

„        Sir  John  de,  Admiral  of  the  Norfolk 

Coast,  278 

Bourchier  Arms,  139 
Boyland  Arms,  305 
Brandon  Arms,  329 

„        Charles,  Advancement  of,  to   Royal 

Favour,  328 
„         Family,  328 
Brettenham  Hall,  View  of,  140 

„  Park,  Sale  of,  141 

Brewster  Arms,  124 
Brightwell  Church,  Repaired  by  Thos.  Essing- 

ton,  12 

,,          Manor-house  Rebuilt  in  1663,  13 
Brockford  House,  Curious  Note  Respecting,  232 
Broke,    Bowes-Vere,    Gallant    Victory    of    Sir 
Philip,  over  the  "  Chesa- 
peake," 69 
„  „  Memoir  of  Sir  Philip,  69 

W  I 


Brooke,  Sir  Richard,  Account  of,  68 
Bucton  Arms,  287 

„       Family,  239 
Bull  Hall,  View  of,  352 
Burgate  Arms,  245 

,,        Sir  William,  Pedigree  of,  244*1. 
Butcher  Arms,  66w. 
Carlford  Hundred,  1-129 
,,       Map  of,   i 

,,         Parishes  and  Manors,  i,  2 
Castleton  Arms,  306 

Castleward  Rent  and  Relief,  Custom  of,  32 
Causeway  and  Bridges,  Custom  as  to,  262 
Cavendish  Family,  97-101 

,,          Thomas,  Exploits  of,  98,  99 
Champayne  Arms,   255 
Charity  Established  by  Sir  Michael  Stanhope, 

37 

Chelsworth  Manor,  Rental  for    1737,  152-154 
Chevallier  Arms,  220 

,,          Family,  Cullum's  Account  of,  219 
Chirche  Arms,  271 

Cider-making,  Interesting  Account  of,  219 
Circumnavigator  of  the  World,  Account  of,  99 
Clarke  Arms,  138,  275 
Clarkson,  Thomas,  Paper  by  Lord  A.  Hervey 

on,  92 

„  ,,          Portrait  of,  at  Ipswich,  92 

Clay  Soil  of  High  Suffolk,  323 
Clench,    Captain,   forced    to    Compound    with 

Rebels  for  his  Estate,  t,n. 
Clerke  Arms,   185 
Clopton  Manor,  Description  of,  30 

,,        William,  Benevolence  of,  165 
Cobham,   John   Baron,    Fearful   end   of,   218 
,,  „          „       Leader  of  the  Lollards, 

218 

Coke  Family,  133,  134 
Colneis  Hundred,  i-i2~9 

„        Parishes  and  Manors,  i,  2 
Conyers  Arms,  266 
Cooke  Arms,  139 
Cornwallis  Arms,  239 

Edward,  Inscription  on,  241 
Sir  Frederick,  Account  of,  238 
John,  Will  of,  240 
Sir  John,  Inscription  on,  243 
„         „     Will  of,  242 
Sir    Thomas,    Arguments    of,     re- 
specting      Succes- 
sion to  the  Crown, 

237 
n  ,,  ,,          Great     bravery    of 

237 

„  „  „          Inscription  on,  237 

William,  Inscription  on,  241 

Will  of,  241 
Cosford  Hundred,   131-214 

Parishes  and  Manors,  131 


11. 


INDEX   RERUM. 


Cotton  Arms,  266 

,,      Court  Rolls,  List  of,  148,  249 
Hall.  Description  of,  248 
HempnalU  Hull.  Vii-w  of.  255 
tun  I'||N  iliMOM-n-d  ;it  l.cvington,  62 
Crane,  Robert,  Will  of,  284,  285 
Crows  Hall,  Building  of,  68 
Custom,  Curious,  of  Bacton  Manor,  224 
Customs  of  Cotton  Manor,  250,  251 

of  Kalkenham   Manor,   Involved  in   a 

Suit,  41 

Cutler  Arms,  289 
Despotin,  Jasper,  M.D.,  Account  of,   198 

..      Will  of,  198,  199,  200 
<e  of  Sir  Thomas  Tuddenham,  2 
D'Oyly  Arms,  163 

Family,  160,  161,  162,  166,  192 
Sir  William,  Gallant  Service  of,  162 
East  India  Company,  Petition  of,  to  House  of 

Lords,  113 
Edgar  Arms,  289 
Elmham  Arms,  329 

Elizabeth  de,  Bequest  in  Will  of,  326, 

3s? 
Pedigree  of,  327 

Sir  William  de,  Heavy  Fine  Levied 
Against,  326 
Essington  Arms,  13 

Ethel freda  the  Fair,  Curious  Adventure  of,  146 
Evidence,  Interesting,  to  Prove  Age,  147,  148 
Excommunication  of  Robert  and  Nigel  Sack- 

ville,  227 

Executioner,  Difficulty  in  obtaining  an,   186 
Eye  Priory,  Account  of,  262 
Eyre  Arms,  304 
Fastolf  Arms,  69 

Felbrigg,  Sir  George  de,  Description  of  Monu- 
ment to,  87 

„  „        „        ,,  Pardoned    for    Money 

due    to    the    Crown, 
86 
Sir  John,    Forcible  Entry  of,    into 

Playford  Hall,  87 
Felton  Arms,  92 

Family  shown  to  be  Ancient  and  Illus- 
trious, 88 
Sir  Anthony,  Decree  of   Earl    Marshal 

Touching,  89,  90 

,,      Sir  Henry  feigns  illness  at  Shotley,  90 
„       Thomas  de,  K.G.,  Account  of,  88,  89 
Fettiplace  Arms,  109 
Fortibus  Arms,  30 

Forts,  Pollard  Trees  felled  for  making,  116 
Fournier,  Forgery  and  Fraud  of,  219 
Foxhall  al.  Caswell's  Manor,  Description  of,  44 
Frere  Arms,  266 
Freston  Family,  333,  334,  335 

Sir  Richard,  Actions  respecting,  335 

,,        Seven  Leases  of,  334 
Furneaux  Arms,  214 
Gardeville  Arms,  303 
Gibson  Arms,  342 
Gislingham  Arms,  271 
Glover  Arms,  66n. 
Goodwin,  John,  Monument  to,  66w. 
Gosnold  Arms,  8$ 

Family,  84 

„        John,  Monument  to,  84 
Grey  Arms,  321 
Grimston  Arms,  300 

,,         Edward,  Inscription  on,  299 
,,         Hall,  Remains  of,  100 
Gurdon  Arms,  39 


Harland,  Sir  Robert,  Lord  of  the  Admiralty,  70 
Hartismerc  Hundred,  215-352 

„          Map  of,  215 
,,  ,,          Parishes  and  Manors  of, 

215-216 

Hasketon  Manor-house,  Description  of,  52 
Hastings,  Henry  de,  Distinguished  Career  of, 

77,  78 
,,          John,   Lord,  Competitor  for  Crown 

of  Scotland,  78 

Heigham,  Sir  Clement,  Will  of,  202 
Hemenhale  Arms,  316 

Pedigree,  337 
Henniker  Arms,  315 
Henniker-Major,  Baron,  Hospitality  of,  315 

Family,  315 
Hewitt  Arms,  74 
Hitcham,  Sir  Robert,  Will  of,  63 
Ipswich  Castle,  Demolition  of,  117 
Jeggon  Arms,  309 
Keene  or  Kene  Arms,  320 
Kersey  Priory,  Remains  of,  183 
Kcsgrave  Hall  rebuilt  in   1812,  60 
Killigrew  Arms,  315 

„  Family,  314 

Knyvet  Arms,  279,  281 

„        Family,  279,  280 
Lambe  Arms,  105 
L'Estrange  Arms,  206 

,,  Family,  206,  207 

Lewgore  Arms,  32 
Loveyne  Arms,  139 
Major  Arms,  315 

Marriage,  Unfortunate,  of  Sir  Thos.  Tudden- 
ham, 4 
Meadows  Arms,  124 

„         Family,  123,  124 
Minter,  John,  Extract  from  Will  of,  123 
Moat-house,  Ancient,  of  Goswold  Hall,  321 
Moretaigne,  Count  of,  Character  of, 

,,  ,,        His  Manors  enumerated, 

«5 

Morieux  Arms,  206 

Nacton  celebrated  for  seamen,  70 

Naunton  Arms,  154 

Nevill  Family,  79-83 

„       Sir  George,   Distinguished   Service  of, 

79,  80 

Newton  Arms,  229 
Noon  Arms,  66 

Orwell  Park,  Description  of,  70 
Otley  Hall,  Ancient  Seat  of  the  Gosnolds,  84 

„          „    View  of,  77 
Outlawry  of  Michael,,  E.  of  Suffolk,  258 
Ox-roasting,  Interesting  Celebration,  315 
Patalium,  Curious  Service  of,  235 
Pembroke,   Earldom  of,   extinguished,   79 
Pew,  Curious  Entry  in  Parish  Register  as  to 

repair  of,    124,    125 
Plaiz  Arms,  154 
Playford  Church,  Rebuilding  of,  87 

,,        Hall,  Interesting  account  of,  91,  92 
Plays,  Sir  John  de,  Will  of,  150 
Pleijs  Arms,  271 
Pocklington  Arms,   154 
Port  Famine,  Why  so-named,  98 
Pratt  Family,  in 

„      Sir    Roger,     Share    of,     in    rebuilding 
London,  in 


INDEX   RERUM. 


in. 


Pretyman  Family,  3:0 

,,          George,  Bp.  of  Lincoln,  223 

,,          George,     Curious     note     respecting, 

223 
Print,  Curious,  by  Knurl,  of  Brightwell  Manor, 

mentioned,    13 
Pryme,  Lady,  Miss  Hawkin's  Account  of,  323 

„      Sir  Samuel,  Cole's  Account  of,  323 
Purpet  Family,  74*1. 
Raper  Arms,  30 
Rebow  Arms,  85 
Redgrave  Hall,  Account  of,  293 
Reeve  Arms,  323 
Reeve  or  Reve  Family,  322 
Rent  Roll,  Curious,  at  Orwell  Park,  225 
Rental  of  Cosford  Hall,  170,  171,  172 

„      of  Pond  Hall,  163 

,,       of  Toppesfield  Manor,  167,  168 
Risby  Arms,   206 

,,      Family,  206 

Rivett,  Ancient   Suffolk   Family  of,    137,    143, 
144 

„       Arms,  137,  138 

,,       William,  Inscription  on,  137 
Rix  Arms,  321 

"  Roundhead,"  Origin  of  name,  113 
Rouse  Arms,  52 

„       Family,  52 
Russell  Arms,  42 

Sackville  Arms,  228 
St.  Philibert  Arms,  154 
Sampson  Arms,  92 
Scott  Arms,  66«. 
Scckford  Arms,  9 

„        Family,  6,  7 

Hall,  Sale  of,  8 
„    View  of,  9 
Shaw  Arms,  13 

Shells  or  Crags  used  as  Manure,  62 
Sheppard  Arms,  233 
Shipwreck,  Escape  from,  of  Robert  Sackville, 

226 
Sicklemore  Arms,  109,  no 

„  John,  Inscription  on,  109 

Smith  Family,  319,  320 
Stanstead  Manor,  Copyholds  of,  144,  145 


Thistleden  Hall,  Remains  of,  22 

Thornham,  Great,  Hall,  Description    of,    314, 

3'5 
,,  ,,          „      Queen        Elizabeth's 

Visit    to,    316 

,,  „          „      View  of,  313 

Tindale  Arms,  228 
Tiptoft,   John,    Baron,    Address    of,   to    Pope 

Pius  II.,  187 

Trees,  Custom  as  to  taking  lops  of,  259 
Verdon  Arms,  66 

,,        Thomas  de,  Hospitality  of,  65 
Vernon,  Admiral  Edward,  Residence  of,   70 
,,  ,,  ,,         Unfortunate  Career 

of,  64 

Vernon  Arms,  300 
Wachesham  Arms,  210 

Waldcgrave,  Sir  George,  Inscription  on,   175 
Walton,  Before  the  Conquest,  A  place  of  note, 

"7 

,,        Castle,  Demolition  of,  117 

„  ,,       Interesting  Account  of,  117 

Warner  Arms,  142 

Warren  Arms,  74 

Wenyeve  Family,  141 

Westhorpe     Hall,     Account   of    demolition   of, 

337-328 

,,  „       List  of  Lords  of,  326 

Westmoreland,     Earldom    claimed    by    Baron 

Abergavenny,  81 
Will    of    Elizabeth    Wilkinson    established     in 

Chancery,  8 
Wills,    Peculiar   habit   of    frequently    making, 

3«4 
Wilson,    Richard,   Recovers    /6o,ooo  for  Lord 

Chcdworth,  210 
Wingfield  Arms,  13 

Family,  53,  54 
„          Sir    Richard,    Distinguished    Career 

of,  29 

,,          Sir  Thomas,  Will  of,  53 
Withcpolc,   Edmund,   Decree  of  Earl   Marshal 

touching,  89,  90 
Wolferston  Arms,  37 

Woodstock,   Edmund   of,   beheaded     for    Con- 
spiracy, 1 86 

Wortham  Manor,  List  of  Tenants,  &c.,  342 
Wright  al.  Reve  Family,  322 
Yaxley  Arms,  351 

„        Family,  349-  35° 
„        Hall,  View  of,  349 


INDEX    LOCORUM. 


Abbots  or  Culpho  Abbatis  or 

Culpho  Regis  M.,  i,  37-39, 

48 

Abingdon,  265 
Acton,  176,  185,  191,  191*. 
Africa,  98 

Akenham  M.,  50,  122*. 
Albcmarle  Honor,  2411. 
Aldeburgb,  6,  71 
Alderton,  84,  252 
Aldcrton,  co.  Wilts,   12 
Aldham,  131-134,  »68,  213 
Alexton  H.,  co.   Leic.,  232 
Algarkirk,  co.,  Line.,  206 
Almanza,  314 
Almclcy,  74 
Alnesbourn,  2,  70-72 
Alneston  Ch.,  77,  98,  105 
Alnwick  Castle,  180 
Alpheton  Manor,  311 
Alresford  Hall,  84 
Alteston  Church,  97 
Alteston   now   with    Trimley 

Manor,  2,  105-106 
Aluredestuna,  v.  Hasketon 
America,  30,  31,  105 
Amiens,  25,  53 
Ampner's  M.,  216,  321 
Amnnghall,  co.  Norf.,  192 
Amsterdam,  90 
Acgoulcme,  88 
Antigua,  156 
Antioch,  24 
Aquitaine,  78,  88,  186 
Ardfry,  co.  Galway,  265 
Ardleigh,  co.  Essex,  u,  157 
Ardres,  So 
Armiger's,  83 

Arncnich,  co.  Cornwall,  314 
Ash,  83,  in,  232 
Ashbridge,  237 
Ashley  Ledger,  co.  Northants, 

12 

Ashfield,  246,  252 
Ashruge,  co.  Bucks,  242,  243 
Aspall,  97,  137,  143,  215,  217- 

220 

Assendun,  co.  Essex,  292 
Astone's,  205 
Athelington,  219 
Attleboro',  203,  205,  209,  340 
Aylesham,  6,  15 
Ayllesbourne  M.,  72 
Aylmerton,  87 


Babergh  Hundred,  16,  22*1., 
35";  59,  74,  92*-,  97"-,  »3«, 
'32,  "39,  MO,  173,  176, 
183*.,  185*1.,  191,  191*1.,  194, 

202,       207».,       208»«.,      212*1., 

273*.,  284*1.,  302*1.,  311,  329, 

339»- 

Babington  Close,  167 

Bacton,  5,  8,  13,  42,  60,  64, 
66,  100,  215,  221-225,  229, 
229*1.,  246-248*1.,  252,  265, 
271*1.,  310,  319,  326,  329, 
34* 

Bacton,  Old,  228,  229 

Badenoch,  179 

Badley,  302*1.,  303 

Bageham,  co.  Kent,  227 

Bamburgh  Castle,  88 

Barchestuna,   125 

Bardolf's  Manor,  37 

Barham,  83,  109,  123,  247 

Barmston,  co.  York,  213 

Barnard's  M.,  v.  Witherton 

Barnet,  East,  162 

Barnet  Field,  28 

Barney's  Manor.  228 

Barnie's  or  Rooky's  M.,  215, 
230 

Barningham,  223,  352 

Barnsley,  co.  Glouc.,  222 

Barones,  241 

Barrow,   89,    198,    198*1.,   202, 

2O2«.,   2O6 

Bartillisdon,  240 

Barton,  265 

Bartyllesdon  Ch.,  240 

Basing,  150 

Bath,  266 

Battisford,  273,  325 

Battle  Abbey,  279 

Bavents    al.   Norton    Bavcnts 

M.,  275*1. 

Bawdsey  Rectory  M.,  151*1. 
Baylham  Manor,  62*1. 
Beating's,    Gt.,   i,  3-10*1.,  36, 

47,  5",  52,  59,  72,  88w.,  89, 

107,  124,  222,  341 
Beatings,  Little,   i,  10 
Beauchamps        in        Oakley 

(PWoodhall)  M.,  216,  287, 

305 
Bcaumond's    or    Beaumont's 

M.,  131,  195 
Beccles,  185,  247 
Bedfield  M.,  262 
Bedford,  co.,  143,  241 
Bedingfield,  260.  269 
Bcdingham    or    Benningham 

M.,  216,  289-290 


Bedington,  co.  Surrey,  265 
Beeston,  co.  Norf.,  276,  308 
Belhus,  co.  Essex,  134 
Bellmans,   144 
Belmont,  195,  200,  210 
Belstead,  265 

Belstead,  Little,  M.,  272*1. 
Benacre  Manor,  20 
Benhall,  257,  329*1. 
Beningham,  260 
Bentley,  69 
Benyngham,  351 
Berard,  132 
Berdwell,  306 
Bergavenny  Castle,  81 
Berges  Church,  227 
Bergholt,    East,    104*1.,    138, 

151*1.,  227 

Berks,  co.,  147,  149,  152 
Bernard  Castle,  178 
Bernay  Abbey,  262 
Bernevilles,   v.   Burnavillo 
Berrard's    H.    M.,    131,    212- 

2'3 
Bczillers     or     Boyland's    M.. 

216,  304-305 

Bickerton,  co.  York,  349 
Biggleswade,  co.  Beds.,  143 
Bildeston,   131,   135-139,    "43> 

198,   202,   207,   209,  210,    213, 

232,  300 

Billingbere,  co.  Berks.,  161 
Billingford  Church,  240 
Birling,  co.  Kent,  81,  82 
Bixley,  i,  2,  94,  95,  241 
Blackbourn     Hundred,     136, 
«37"->    »77>    l84,   214,    215, 
228,  238,  239,  245,  259,  260, 
265*1.,  27',  275,  287*1.,  292, 
297,     302*1.,     308*1.,     314, 
319*1.,  343,  346*1.,  350 
Blackfoil  Field,  81 
Blackford  H.,  co.  Norf.,  321 
Blackheath,  80 
Blackness,  98 

Blaxhall.  31,  37,  120,  121,  252 
Bletchingley,  co.  Surrey,  80 
Blickling,  co.  Norf.,  74,  236 
Blowfield,  2,  63,  94,  105 
Blynges  Manor,  37 
Blysworth,  212 
Blyth,  38 
Blythburgh,    20,   38,   39,    48, 

5',  .54 
Blything  Hundred,  20,  29,  31, 

38,  39,  48,  54,  56,  79,  '34"  • 
185*1.,    196,    260,   270,    274, 

275"-.  295,  3°7 
Bokcnham,  87 


INDEX    LOCORUM. 


v. 


Boles,  250,  253 
Bolton,  28 
Bolys  M.,  336 
Bordeaux,  89,  147,  178 
Boroughbridge,   136,  149,  186 
Borowthorp,  co.  Norf.,  350 
Bosmere  and  Claydon  Hund., 
i,    42,    62H.,   99,    103,    122- 
I23«.,   131,  162,  208,  209«., 

215,   284,  302M. 

Bosworth,  28 

Botesdale,  124,  225,  293,  296 
Botsford  Bridge,  262 
Botsham,  co.  Camb.,  yi. 
Botun  Church,  97 
Bough  Manor,  6 
Boulge,  21,  2iH.,  52,  125 
Boulogne,  80,  328 
Bourbourg,   132 
Bourges,  43,  44 
Bournemouth,  225*1. 
Bowell's  or  Boville's  M.,  215, 

229-230 

Bowfield  M.,  2oi«. 
Boxford,  182 
Boxstead,  91,  175,  y>2n. 
Boyes,  225 

Boyland  H.  M.,  Norf.,  282 
Boyland's  Manor,  305,  306 
Boy's  or  Horinger's  M.,  215, 

222,  224-225,  27i«. 
Bracon  Ash,  302 
Bradfield,  299 
Bradfield,  Much,  M.,  310 
Bradfield  St.  Clare,  207 
Bradley,  Little,  M.,  3O3«. 
Braiseworth,    215,    225-23IH., 

252*.,  274*.,  298,  333«. 
Bramber,  co.  Sussex,  155 
Brame's  H.  M.,  232,  310 
Bramford,  15,  109,  138 
Bramham  Moor,  27 
Brampton,  185,  :85«.,  2:8 
Brandeston,  4«.,  232,  272 
Brantham,  12,  60,  63,  &3«. 
Brasted,  Gt.,  co.  Essex,  108 
Bray,  181 

Breckles  Hall,  228,  239 
Brecon,  co.,  265 
Bredfield,  52,  152 
Bredwell,  102 

Brendwenham  Ch.,  16,  68,  IIQ 
Brentha  al.  Brendhall  M.,  i, 

30-34 

Bresworth  Manor,  271 
Brcsyngham,  v.  Brisingham 
Bret  or  Breton,  River,  142 
Bretagne,  242 
Brettenham,  88,  131,  140-145, 

174*.,  207 

Bricett  Magna,  123 
Brick-House,  125 
Bridge  Place  M.,  209*1. 
Bridlington,  co.  York,  314 
Briggeley  Manor,  227 
Brighton,  300 
Brightwell,    i,    11-13,  44,   59, 

69,  74,  113,  114,  i  MM.,  206 
Brihtolvestuna,  94,   125 
Bringewood,  156 
Bristol,  31 


Brockford,  137,  215,  226,  231- 

233>   247,   314,   323,   323«., 

33' 

Brockley  Manor,  28 
Broke,    16,  63*.,  69,   70,   72, 

92 
Brokes     al.     Cowhaugh     al. 

Cow  H.  M.,  2,  44,  67-70,  95 
Brokshall  Manor,  151 
Brome,  73,  209*2.,  215,  234-243, 

260,  270,  286,  287,  291,  304, 

3°5,  3'5,  3'9 
Bromehill  Priory,  150 
Bromeholm  Priory,  150 
Bromeswell  M.,  106 
Bromley  M.,  co.  Surrey,  50 
Bromswell,  52 
Brook  H.  M.,  I5i«.,  152,  205 
Broomdavillers,      known      as 

Beauchamp  M.,  287 
Bruisyard,  20 
Brundish  M.,  28,  29 
Bruton  Abbey,  336 
Buckenham  Castle,   in,  279, 


Buckhurst,    co.     Sussex,    41, 

227 
Buckingham,  co.,  30,  in,  124, 

138,  161,  178,  223,  242,  243 
Bucklesham,  i,  u,  14-17,  68, 

119 

Bugden,  co.   Hunts.,  259 
Bull's   Head   with   Blodgates 

al.  Boles  M.,  216,  351-352 
Bungay,  239,  295 
Bunstead,  323 
Bunstead  Hellions,  265 
Burch  v.  Burgh 
Bures  St.  Mary,  192,  194 
Burgate,  215,  244-245«.,  269 
Burgh,  i,  18-22,  30,  52,  101 
Burghersh  House,  124 
Burham  Hall,   182 
Burnaville's  M.,  2,  62-64 
Burnham,  co.  Norf.,  51 
Burnham  Thorpe,  236 
Burningham    M.,    co     Norf., 

293 

Burston,  co.  Norf.,  310 
Burton,  13 
Burvall's  Manor,  63 
Burwash  M.,  2,   120-122,  289 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  8,  37,  38, 

69,    83,    91,    124,    136,    141, 

'44,  173,  '95,  '98<  205,  223, 

232,  235,  248,  254,  31°,  3'3. 

319,  323,  329,  342 
Bury    Abbey,    146,    231,    273, 

29',  3'9,  326,  328,  339,  347 
Bushe  Cattshill,  156 
Busshes  or  Buces  al.   Busses 

M.,   loin.,  216,  283-284 
Butley  Abbey,  280 
Buxhall,  I4in.,  144,  145,  174, 

231,  299,  322,  331 
Bylaugh,  co.  Norf.,  310 
Caistor,  co.  Norf.,  68«. 
Calais,  4,  237,  309 
Calcot  Park,  152 
Caldecote  Manor,  2,  118 
Calthorp,  co.  Norf.,  51 
Camberwell,  co.  Surrey.  241 


Cambridge,  7,  38,  55,  147, 
157,  183,  223,  290,  308,  323 

Cambridge,  co.,  s«.,  7,  89, 
161,  174,  255,  265 

Campine's  or  Champain's  or 
Campyns  M.,  215,  254-255 

Campsey  Ash,  20,  123,  232, 
32°,  323 

Candelent  or  Candlett  or 
Fourthe  M.,  2,  27i«. 

Canterbury,  158,  159,  173,  223, 
315 

Capel  M.,  2,  101,  26iw.,  284*. 

Capell's  M.  with  Nortons,  104 

Carleton,  co.  York,  149 

Carlford  Hund.,  1-122,  15,61, 
72,  125,  141,  26i«.,  284«., 
289".,  305,  339M.,  340 

Carlton,  31,  I^M.,  321 

Carlton  Colville,  31,  275 

Carlton  Road,  Norfolk,  319 

Carlwood  ( ?),  101 

Carthagena,  64 

Casteleyn's   M.,    207 

Castell's,  -v.  Throgton 

Castill,  179 

Castleacre  Priory,  2o8«. 

Castle  Hedingham,  Essex,  6 

Castlemain,  91 

Castle  Manor,  106 

Castor  Church,  26 

Caswell's,  v.  Foxhall 

Catston  Church,  94 

Catteshall,  164 

Causton  Church,  37,  60 

Cavendish,  97,  yjn.,  150 

Chagre,  64 

Chalventure,  227 

Chamberleyns  M.,  207*!. 

Chapel  House,  185 

Chapell,  co.   Essex,   I38«. 

Chapmans,  313 

Charsfield,  21,  30,  185 

Chateris  Abbey,  178 

Chatisham,  123 

Chatteris,  co.  Camb.,  190,  192 

Chawton  Ho.,  co.  Hants,  224 

Chediston,  275,  275*1. 

Chelsford,  41 

Chelsworth,  131,  146-154,  198, 

213 

Cherry  Garden,  8 
Chersey,  159 
Cheshunt,  co.  Herts.,  181 
Chester,  68,  135 
Chesterfield,  84 
Cheston,  345 
Chick,  89 

Chilton,  273,  273«.,  284,  2841!. 
Chilworth  Manor,  152 
Chingford,  co.  Essex,  38 
Christchurch,  Manor,  176 
Christ's  Hospital,  306 
Church  Coniston,  289 
Churchford,  160 
Cinque  Ports,  80 
Cirencester,  78,  180 
Clandon,  West,  322 
Clapton,  co.  Northants,  141 
Clare,  202 

Clare  Honor,  145,  181 
Claverham  Manor,  227 


VI. 


INDEX   LOCORUM. 


Claydon,  50,  aaj 
Clayton,  57,  75,  266 
Cleeve's  or  Clyffe's  at.  Blum- 

villo's  M.,  i,  19,  22 
Clctkrnwcll,  7 
Clcydon,  15,  83 
Clopton,  i,  23-33,  So.  57,  83, 

83,  109,  lao,  121*1.,  164,  226, 

'57 

Clydach,  co.  Brecon,  265 
Cockfield,  33,  37,  48,  60,  132, 

183,  183*.,  252,  329*1. 
Cockinley,  260 
Coddenham,  209,  209*1. 
Codderham,  200 
Codcnham  Manor,  45 
Coggohall,  30,  195,  254,  329, 

342 

(  ulc.irr,  lot 

Colchester,  84,  212,  299,  310 
Colchester    Abbey,   226,    227, 

29°,  333- 336 
Coldham  Hall,  322 
Colne  Priory  Ch.,   132 
Colncis  Hundred,  iC,  19,  53, 

1:5,    2OI*I.,   212,   27in. 

Colneye,  co.  Norf.,  350 
Colvile's  Manor,  67*1. 
Combs,  167,  169,  190,  193,  195, 

210,  213,  258,  325 
Cooke's  Meadow,  350 
Copehall,  68 
Cordeboefs    or     Free     Tent. 

Corborne's  M.,  216,  282-283 
Cornwall,  15,  28,  61,  314 
Corton  Manor,  4 
Cosford     Hundred,      131-214, 

176,  183,  194*.,  258*1.,  300, 

30811. 
Cosford     M.,    131,    158,    161, 

162,  167,  169-172,  214 
Cosford- Loos,  173 
Cotenham,  141 
Cotton,  no.  215,  222,  225,  226, 

-46-255,  3<>3»  3«°,  3«6".,  325. 
326,  336,  351  n. 
Cotton    Briseworth    M.,    215, 

-47-2S ' 
Cotton    Hempnall    or   Calde- 

cott  M.,  213,  247,  252-254, 

316*1.,  336,  351*. 
Coulscy  wood,  302 
Coventry,  78,  78*1. 
Crabhouse,  4 

Cramwell  H.,  co.  Line.,  7 
Cranley  H.  M.,  215,  260,  261 
Cranworth,    co.    Norf.,    310, 

329 

Cranworth-cum-Lrtton,  84 
Cratficld  Manor,  106 
<'r.iifiHd  I.c  Ros  M.,  196,  295 
Creeling,  45,  203 
Cresseners  Manor,  83 
Cressy,  155 
Cretingham  at.  Tyes  M.,  28, 

*9 

Cropredy  Bridge,  238 
Crostonecroft,  nO 
Cruunthorp  M.,  ro.  Norf.,  87 
Crowe's.  55,  216,  297 

Afield.  5,  299 

<  row '.,  M.  M.,  5,68,  192,  296*1. 
Croydon,  co.  Surrey,  7,  8 


Culford,  238,  280,  287*1.,  399> 

3«9»- 
Culpho,  i,  35-39,  48,  no,  in, 

339*- 
Culpho     at.     Vcrdon's     and 

U'.tchesham  M.,  i,  35-37 
Curdon's  or  Cardew's  H.  M., 

2,  122 

Culvertston,  101 
"Cutts  and  Corbocs,''  283 
Dagworth  Manor,  319,  319*1. 
Darn  ford,  43 
Darsham  Hall,  270 
Deane's  Hall,  54 
Dcback,  30 
Dcben,  River,  i 
Dcbcnham,  5,  97,  192,  217-219, 

296*1. 

Dcnford  Ct.,  co.  Bucks,  1:4 
Donhum,  260 
Dcnnington,  27-29,  297 
Dcnston  College,  195 
Denston  Hall  M.,  245*1. 
Dcnton,  co.  Norf.,  162 
Denyngton  Church,  255 
Deom,  co.  Northants,  228 
Depham  M.,  co.  Norf.,  339 
Derby,  co.,  60,  97 
Derby,  New  England,  33 
Derneford  Manor,  121*1. 
Dcsning  Manor,  140 
Deusccwelle,   1 86 
Devizes  Castle,  178 
Devon,  co.,  200,  237 
Didlington,  H.,  co.  Norf.,  232 
Dinnington,  284 
Diss,  231,  240,  268,  320,  342 
Ditchingham,  co.    Norf.,  38, 

106,  162 

Dodnash,  40,  41 
Doniland,  co.  Essex,  219 
Dover,  327 
Dover  Castle,  70,  80 
Downham,  co.  Essex,  239 
Driffield  Abbey,  222 
Drinkstone,  136,  139 
Dublin,  237 

Duffryn,  co.  Glam.,  315 
Dunmow  Hundred,  136 
Dunningworth  M.,  106 
Dunwich,  38,  218,  262 
Durham,  178 
Dutton,  137 

Earl's  Hall  Manor,  132 
Earl  Soham,  6,  71 
East  Grinstead,  Sussex,  82 
East  Indies,  70,  99 
Easton,  54,  77,  100 
Eaton  Hastings,  147 
Eccles  Manor,  35i«. 
Kdulvestuna,  125 
Edwardstone,    12,    22*1.,   194, 

194*1.,  198 

Elmham.  S..  221,  304 
Elmsett,  131,  155-157,  214 
Elsing,  co.  Norf.,  31,  53,  87, 

327 

Eltham,  co.  Kent.  138*1. 
Kly,  10.  ii.  49,  158,  330,  331 
Ely,  Isle  of,  192 
Elyngham  Parva.   191 
Enficld,  co.   Middx.,   182 


Eriswell,  3*1.,  4,  4*.,  309, 
309*1.,  346 

Erlysforth  Bridge,  349 

Erlysforth  Close,  349 

Erwarton,  73,  99,  235 

Essex,  co.,  6,  11,  12*1.,  38,  48, 
54,  75,  84,  «o8,  116,  134-136, 
138*1.,  142,  150-152,  155,  157, 
158,  160,  166,  170,  174,  192, 
195,  206,  214*1.,  219,  226, 
239,  240,  243,  253,  254,  265, 
272,  292,  299,  314,  346 

Euston,  135,  268,  309,  325 

Evesham,  178 

Eye,  101,  215,  238,  240,  257- 
259,  261,  284,  290,  299,  305, 
3'°,  3«3.  3'8>  321,  322,  326, 
345.  35' 

Eye  Castle,  257,  258 

Eye  Honor,  41,  226,  227,  252, 
256-263,  298,  298*1.,  309, 
33-  346 

Eye  Priory,  215,  261-263,  272, 
289,  301,  302,  345 

Eyke,  52,  99 

Eystanes,  135 

Facon's  Hall  M.,  216,  296-297 

Fakenham,  90,  115 

Falkenham,  2,  40-42,  98,  101, 

105,  106 

Falmouth,  335 

Faltham  Manor,  226 

Faucon's  al.  Fakon's  or  Fal- 
con's M.,  216,  304-306 

Fauntcnham,  116 

Felbrigg,  87 

Felixstowe,  i,  2,  43,  98,  105, 

106,  117,  127 

Felsham,  139,  205,  207,  247 
Felton  M.,  co.  Northd.,  88 
Felton's  M.,  2,  44,  45 
Felton,  Upper,  M.,  88 
Fenhouse  M.,  216,  291 
Fenwick,  co.  Norf.,  78 
Fernhill,  52 

Fersfield,    co.    Norf.,    151*1., 

225 

Fillougley  M.,  co.  Warw.,  77 
Finesford  or  Finlesford,  120 
Finningham,    215,    222,    223, 

264-266,  269,  273,  320,  325, 

329,  346 
Fitz  James's  ( ?  Fitz  John's) 

M.,  297 

Five-acre  Close,  55,  56 
Flanders,  326 
Flede  or  Fledd's  H.  M.,  216, 

284-285 

Fleed  or  Flude  H.M.,  284 
Flegg,  26 

Flemworth  H.  M.,  215,  260 
Flixton,  196,  295,  304,  325 
Flushinge,  89 
Ford  H.,  co.  Salop,  224 
Fordham,  M.,  co.  Camb.,  89 
Forncaux  Manor.  131 
Fornham,  89,  146,  226 
Fothcringay,  81 
Foxhall,  2,  15,  17,43-45 
Foxhole,  it,  119 
Foxholes,  68 


INDEX    LOCORUM. 


vu. 


Framlingham,    6,    63,    63*1., 
101,  104,  in,  116,  118,  237 
Framsden,  51 

France,  4,  28,  29,  53,  77,  79, 
117,  180,  181,  186,  309,  326, 
328 

Freckenham,  311 
Frense,  108,  242,  276,  304 
Fressingfield,  i22n.,  262 
Freston,  31,  59*1. 
Fundenhall,  co.  Norf.,  274 
Furneaux  Manor,  213-214 
Further  Wood,  341 
Galway,  co.  265 
Gapton  Harolle  M.,  102 
Garboldisham  Ch.,  292". 
Gascony,  149 
Gallon,  co.  Surrey,  237 
Gaynes  Manor,  igin. 
Gazeley,  83,  108,  269 
Gedding,  139,  196,  207,  207*. 
Germains,  co.  Buck,  223 
Gernoun,  310 
Gillingham,  335 
Gipping,    137,    143,   219,   222> 

222n.,  247,  247*.,  273*1.,  279, 

280,  281,  314 
Gipswich  M.,  215,  255 
Gislingham,    215,    222,    245, 

267-273,  276,  281,  314".,  3'7> 

325 

Glamorgan,  co.,  315 
Glemham,  Great,  347 
Gloucester,   co.,   54,  60,    134, 

136,    147,   149.  222 

Gloucester  Honor,  7871. 
Godmersham  Park,  224 
Godrich's  Manor,  216,  308-309 
Godwins,  54 
Goldhangre  Church,  236 
Goldingham  H.  Manor,  215 
Goodwins,  113 
Goosewood     or      Goosehoulcl, 

263 
Gorget's  or  Gorges'  M.,  131, 

206-207 

Gorhambury,  co.   Herts,  299 
Gosfield  Place,  206 
Gossold's  or  Goshold's  or  Gos- 
woald's  M.,  216,  320-321 

Gostling's  Manor,  162 

Goswold  Hall,  321 

Gower,  co.  Sussex,  155 

Gravell  Pitts,  55,  56 

Gravesend,  co.  Kent,  29 

Gray's  Inn,  138,  138*1. 

Greene's  Farm,  Line.,  223 

Green  Farm,  265 

Greenwich,  59,  134 

Grenecroft,  334 

Greneslond,  191 

Gressenhall,  co.  Norf.,  31,  78 

Grestein  Abbey,  15 

Grimsby,  Greal,  224 

Grimslon   M.,    2,   43,   96-102, 
105,  105*.,  117,  u8». 

Groby,  90 

Groton,  182,  201 

Grove,  The,  156 

Grundisburgh,  2,  4,  20,  21,  30, 
36,  38,  46-481.,  54,  3°3>  34° 


Guildford,  152 

Guisnes,  80 

Gulper  Hall,  115 

Gustun,  116 

Guthestuna,  125 

Guton  M.,  co.  Norf.,  272 

Gyfford's  M.,  184,  308*1. 

Gyssingham,  see  Gislingham 

Hackford  or  Hakeford  H.  M., 

6 

Hackness  H.,  co.  York,  83 
Hackney,  12,  114 
Haddinglon,  223 
Hadham,  co.  Herls,  138*1. 
Hadleigh,  30,  31,  73,  83,  no, 

»3'»  '37,  '44,  i5°-l63,  '7°, 
175,  181,  184,  189,  191,  192, 
203,  207,  210,  212-214,  347 

Hadleys,  168 

Hales  H.,  104,  192,  271 

Halesworlh,  264 

Hallymote  Manor,  184 

Halstead,  co.  Essex,  206 

Halvergate  Manor,  106 

Hamms  Castle,  28 

Hampshire,  253 

Hampton  Ct.,  co.  Heref.,  82 

Harborough,  314 

Hardwyck,  co.  Norf.,  239 

Harfleur,  258 

Harkstead,  36,  145 

Harleston,  311,  341 

Harling,  W.,  co.  Norf.,  90 

Harrowden,  82 

Hartismere  Hund.,  4*1.,  5,  8, 
13,  42,  60,  64,  64*1.,  66,  100, 
ioi«.,  io5«.,  2o8«.,  209*1., 
2I5-352.  232,  239,  257,  258, 
271".,  3OI>  3°7.  3>5 

Harwich,  99*1.,  299 
Hasketon,  2,  21,  3O-32H.,  49- 

56,  66,   113,    I22H. 

Haspley  with  Newbourn  M., 

2,74,75.99 

Hatton,  co.  Oxford,  81 

Haughley,  202,  225,  257,  258 

Haughley  Honor,  290 

Haverhill,  1 10 

Hawkedon,  83 

Hawstead,  175-205 

Hazleborough  Hall,  60 

Hecham,  205 

Hedenham,  co.  Norf.,  284 

Heigham,  83,  216,  276 

Helmingham,  n,  83,  90,  161, 
162,  264 

Helmley,  v.   Hemley 
Helmsley,  30 
Hemenhale,  213,  25^. 

Hemenhall     or     Hemenhales 

M.,  272,  316 

Hemingstone,  22,  50,  109,  208 
Hemley,  2,  57-58,  73,  101 
Hempnal  Manor,  250 
Hends  Croft,  163 
Hengrave,  89,  237,  238 
Henham,  6,  29,  31,  38,  260 
Henley,  12,  75,  123,  123*. 
Hepscot,  co.  Northd.,  210 
Hepworth,  265*1. 


Hereford,  53,  82 
Herling,  East,  280 
Herlmg,  West,  6 
Herringfleet,  36,  335 
Hertford,   co.,   48,    57,    138*1., 

j8i,  278,  299 
Hessett,  38,  228 
Hesteley  M.,  4«.,  216,  294*1., 

3°7,  309-3io 
Hethe's  Manor,  2,  66 
Heuingham  Priory,  150 
Heveningham,  53,  in,  134". 
Hewds  Croft,  163 
Hickling,   co.   Norf.,  298 
Higham,  89,  108,  182,  215,  245 
Highams,  co.  Essex,  142 
High  House  Farm,  185 
Hill  Hall,  co.  Norf.,  133 
Hillington,  co.  Norf.,  325 
Hinderclay,  124,  245,  271,  275, 

292,  297,  343 

Hingham,  co.  Norfolk,  31 
Hintlesham,    161,    169,    169*1., 

213,  296,  296*1.,  297 
Hitcham,  131,  I4i*».,  142,  M4, 

'73-I77,  l84,  207,  212,  213 
Hobbesttuna,  125 
Hockwold,  in,  228 
Hokham,  15 
Holbrook,   5,   5«.,  67*1.,   92*1., 

n8n.,   119,   152 
Holderness,  19,  25 
Holkham,  co.  Norf.,  133,  161 
Holme,  1 18 

Holton  Ch.,  16,  68,  119 
Honilega,  176 
Honington,  133 
Hoo  Manor,  54*1.,  106 
Hopestuna,  126 
Hopewell  ( ?),  101 
Hopton  M.,  136,  137*1.,  139 
Horham,  274*2. 
Horndon,  W.,  co.  Essex,  54 
Hornham,  131,  213 
Horringer's  Manor,  221 
Horsett,  co.  Camb.,  255 
Horsey  Manor,  227 
Horton,  164 

Hovell's  Manor,  216,  347 
Hoxne,  260,  294,  348,  35 ' 
Hoxne   Hund.,    12,    28*1.,   45, 
53*1.,     176,    215,    228,    260, 
274*2.,  294*1. 

Hugh  or  Hoo  Margaret's  al. 
Stuston  H.  M.,  216,  305-306 
Hunstanton,  205 
Hunston  Hall,  215 
Huntingdon,  co.,  69,  259,  279 
Huntingfield,  133 
Ickworth,  91,  265 
Ilketshall  Manor,  28,  37 
Ilketshall      Bardolph's      M., 

27*l.-29 

Illarius  Manor,  104*1. 
Illington,  329 
Ingham,  51,  86,  150,  238 
Ingulveston   or   Iselton,  &c., 

43,  44 


vm. 


INDEX    LOCORUM. 


Ipswich,  i,  4,  8,  12,  i$,  3°. 
37,  40,  41,  4$.  4$"..  47,  48. 
Sj.  60,  61.63,  66,68,  70,  71, 
so,  8*>^.\  «M.  95.  99.  •<*. 
100-114,  l**i  "7.  I2I> 
i-in  ,  116,  137,  142,  «7S. 
176,  209,  210,  219,  232,  258, 
365,  278,  381,  382,  341,  342 

Ireland,  20,  180,  187,  206,  260, 

3'5.3*9 

Helton,  v.  Ingulvcston 

Italy,  152*1. 

Ivey  Tree,  171 

Ixworth  Abbey,  41 

Jakeslee,  r.  Yuxlce 

Jennies  M.,  315,  271.  :-; 

Jersey,  219 

KaJletuna,  126 

Kediton,  4 

Kellamarsh,  74 

Kehton  Knoll,  Hath,  366 

Kelvedun  Hall,  108 

Kembroke,  i,  14,  16 

Kenbrook,  14 

Kenebrok,  1 16 

Kenilworth,  78,  147 

Kent,  co.,  4,  12,  29,80,81,99, 
108,  111,  138*1.,  179,  187, 
210,  332,  224,  227,  299,  309 

Kenton    M.,   260,   2601.,   281, 

3 '3,  349 
Kentwell,  165 
Ken  ward  Park,  12 
Kersey,     131,     178-183,     187, 

194*1.,  207 

Kesgrave,  2,  15,  37,  59-60,  109 
Kessingland,  68*1. 
Kettlebaston,    131,    176,    184- 

185,    189*1.,    '97.   206,    2°7» 

358*1.,  308*1. 
Kettleburgh,  51,  303 
Ketton,  12,  48 
Kimberley,  335,  336 
Kimbolton,  29,  309 
Kingeshall  Manor,  85 
Kingeslanda,  126 
King's  Close,  144 
King's  Hall,  v.  Clopton 
King's  Lynn,  228 
Kirby  H.,  co.  Essex,  265 
Kirketon,  98,  105 
Kirkley  M.,  16,  16*1.,  68*t. 
Kirkton,  v.  Kirton 
Kirtling,  7 

Kirton  or  Kirkton,  2,  16,  61 
Kirton  Sluice,  i 
Knapton  Manor,  151 
Knoddishall,  152 
Knowle,  co.  Kent,  81 
Kulvertestuna,  126 
Kyngestuna,  126 
Lackford    Hund.,    3*1.,    4"-> 

109*.,  309*1. 
Lackford  Manor,  146 
Lady  Land  Wood,  167 
Latham  or  Latham  M.,   159, 

160 

Lakenham,  206 
Lambeth,  28 
Lame  M.,  v.  Sholand 
Lampetes  Manor,  11 
Lancaster,  co.,  60,  366,  389 


Lancaster,  Duchy  of,  29,  279, 

280 

Lancaster  Honor,  35,  77,  204 
Lancaster  al.  \VerfsorPount- 

ney's  Manor,  105*1.,  216,  27S 
Landguard  Fort,  i,  117 
Land  wade,  co.  Camb.,  161 
Langele,  340 
Langeston  M.,  3,  119 
Langestuna,  127 
Langley  Abbey,  190 
Langton,  360 
Lanwade,  co.  Camb.,  265 
Largate  Bridge,  262 
Lavenham,  132,  231,  299,  322, 

33' 
I.awford   and   Collcsford   M., 

2'S,  273 

Lawn,  Coggeshall,  195,  254 
Lawshall  Manor,   16,  69 
Laxfield,    59,    101,    107,    262, 

286,  296,  305,  324 
I.aycr-de-la-Hay,  214*1. 
Layham,  186-193 
Layton  Manor,  182 
Leeds,  133 

Lees  Manor,  2,  92 

Le  Holm,  116 

Leicester,  co.,  232 

Leighton,  68 

Leiston  Abbey,  37,  156 

Lenne,  27 

Leofstanestuna,  127 

Le  Ryly,  337 

Letheringham,  6,   12,  28.  48, 

53,  53"-,  54,  84,  151,  '85 
Letheringset,   co.    Norf.,    u 
Letherington,  151 
Letton,  21,  38,  39,  48,  84 
Levant,  The,  25 
Leveney,  H.  M.,  326 
Leverton,  66 
Levington,  2,  62-64,  68,  101, 

102,  294 

Lewes,  78,  178,  227 
Lexham  Hall,  341 
Leyham,    131,    159,    181,    183, 

186-190 
Lirhficld,  142 
Lidell,  179 
Lidgate,  209 
Lidney,  co.  Glouc.,  54 
Liffey,  H.  M.,  141*1.,  174*. 
Lillechurch  Ch.,  226 
Lillesley  or  Lindsey  M.,  131, 

182,  194-195 
Limousin,  88,  89 
Lincoln,  24,  25,  27,  221*1.,  334 
Lincoln,  co.,  7,  51,  149,  206, 

333,  324 
Lindsey,    131,    182,    183,    194- 

'95,  2°7 
Ling  H.  M.,  215,  235,  239-243, 

287,  319 
Lisbon,  265 

Litcham  M.,  co.  Norf.,  88,  89 

Liverfield  Lands,  145 

Livermere,  330 

Liverpool,  60 

Loddington,  334 

Loddon,  co.  Norf.,  88,  101,  104 

Lodne,  371 


Loes  Hund.,  i,  4*1.,  53*1., 
54".,  63,  63*1.,  67*1.,  100,  104, 
1 1 6,  185,  260,  260*1. 

London,  i,  12,  27,  33,  68,  73, 
74,  78,  79,  81,  97,  100,  102, 
no,  in,  113,  121,  133,  135, 
"38,  147,  «52,  '56,  i59-'6a, 
169,  170,  176,  210,  223,  237- 
242,  265,  270,  280,  296,  313- 

3'5>  33«,  347,  352 
Longford  H.,  co.  Salop,  82 
Long  Stowe,  co.  Camb.,  7 
Long  Stratton,  333 
Loose  or  Loes  M.,   131,   177, 

308 

Lopham,  342 
Lothingland     Hund.,     101*1., 

104*1.,     209*1.,     225*1.,    23°, 

245*1.,  258,  271*1. 
Lound  M.,  4,  209*1.,  236*1. 
Lound  on  the  \Voldes,  161 
Lovaynes  Manor,  130 
Lowdham,  52,  305*1. 
Lowestoft  Manor,  258 
Ludborough,  co.  Line.,  51 
Lyminster,  co.  Sussex,  69 
Lynn,  4,  248 
Madely,  co.  Salop,  82 
Madrid,  265 
Maiden  Erlegh,  152 
Maidstone,  co.  Kent,  81 
Maistana,  127 
Maldon,  158 
Malton,  52 
Man,  Isle  of,  315 
Manton  M.,  131,  175-177,  184 
Maplestead,  Great,  54 
Maplested,  co.  Essex,  138*1. 
Marham  Abbey,  150 
Market,  Weston,  266,  346*1. 
Marlesford,  114,  138*1.,  139 
Marlingford,  co.  Norf.,  339 
Marshall's  M.,  co.  Norf.,  247 
Marshland,  161 
Marston    or    Moston    H.    M., 

IOO-IOI 

Martlesham,  2,  n,  30,  52,  65- 

66*1.,  73,  342 
Martysham,  214 
Masharn,  184,  197 
Masworth,  co.  Bucks,   in 
Matsesale  Church,  340,  351 
Mauser's  or  Hadleigh  M.,  131, 

158,  168-169 

Maveson's  M.,  216,  320,  349 
Maydenhall  Manor,  205 
Mayhland,  co.  Norf.,  310 
Meer  or  Mere  H.  M.,  2,  92 
Megellan  Straits,  98 
Melford,  Long,  165,  174 
Mellis,    105*1.,   216,   226,  245, 

247,  269,  274-276,  348,  349 
Mells  Manor,  274 
Melton  Constable,  in,  162 
Mendham,    11,   12,    45,    227, 

3 '3-  334-335"- 

Mendlesham,  loin.,  216,  246, 
265,  277-285,  301,  322,  323, 

33°,  332 
Mere,  68 

Mershall  Manor,  326 
Metfield,  11.  12,  45,  '75 
Mettingham,  co.  Kent,  99 


Mickelfeld,  326 

Middlesex,  co.,  30,  60,  82,  142, 

162,  182,  242,  323 
Middleton,  n,  120 
Midhursf,  155,  157 
Mildenhall,  7,  207,  213,  335 
Milding,  212 
Milton,  205,  294 
Minster  Level,  134 
Mochelewood,  191 
Monewden,  30,  83 
Monk's  Brome  M.,  215,  243 
Monk's  Eleigh  M.,  185 
Monk's  Offton  M.,  103 
Montdidier,  4 
Moorhall,  co.  Derby,  97 
Moorhouse,  175 
Moringthorp  M.,  282 
Morlaix,  242 
Morston  H.  Manor,  2 
Morton  Corbet,  188 
Mossen  Manor,  117 
Moston  Manor,  99,  103 
Mounseux  Manor,  83 
Moxhull,  co.  Warw.,  290 
Moyses  Hall,  Bury,  248,  254 
Mullbarton,  co.  Norf.,  91,  no 
Mutford  Hund.,  16,  16*1.,  31, 

68*1. 

Mycelegata,  127 
Nacton,  2,  13,  16,  44,  63,  63*1., 
64*1.,    67-72,    74n.,    90,    92, 
95,  109,  119,  303 
Naples,  142 
Narburgh,  137 
Nauelton  Church,  209 
Naughton,  131,  196 
Naunton's,  v.  Wascolies 
Nayland,  74,  206 
Necton  or  Norton  H.  M.,  215, 

266 
Nedging,    131,    196-200,   213, 

214 

Needham,  47,  225 
Needham  Market,  300,  308 
Netherapys,  55 
Netherhall   M.,  2,  77,  83-85, 
122*».,    192,    2i2*i.,    259-260, 
298 

Nettlestead,  176,  236 
Neuelton  Church,  340 
Newark-upon-Trent,   28 
Newbourn,  2,   n,  16,  36,  58, 

66,  73-75,  99,  "3 
New  Brunswick,  152 
Newbury,  co.  Staffs,  6 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne,  136 
New  England,  33 
Newhall   M.,   84*1.,  215,  225, 

226,  228-229 

Newhall  or  New  Culpho,  38 
Newman  H.,  co.  Essex,  12*1. 
Newmarket,  6,  235 
New  Ross,  142 
Newton,  4,  47,  138*.,  222,  247, 

253,  3'4,  329 
Newton  Flotman,  no 
Newton,  Old,  212,  248 
Norfolk,  co.,  3,  4,  6,   u,  27, 
31,  38,  41,  50,  51,  53,  54,  65, 
68«.,  74,  78,  84,  87-91,  106, 
108,  110,  in,  113,  133,  137, 
150,    isiw.,    161,    162,    166, 

XI 


INDEX    LOCORUM, 


169,    190,    192,    205,    206, 

208*Z.,  209,  214,  215,  222, 
225,  228,  232,  235-237,  239, 
242,  247,  248,  260,  26l,  265, 
270,  272,  274,  276,  278,  279, 
282,  284,  293,  294,  298,  302, 
304,  306,  308,  310,  319-321, 

325,   326,    329,   329*.,    335, 

339>  34i,  349,  35°,  352 
Normandy,  15,  65,  262 
North  Allerton,  24 
Northampton,  28,  218 
Northampton,  co.,  3,  12,  141, 

160*1.,  182,  228,  309 
Northcreik  Church,  286 
Northumberland,  co.,  88,  210 
Norton,  48,  68,  265*1. 
Nortuna.,  128 
Norwich,  4,  31,  34,  5,,  71,  99, 

112,    I22H.,    142,    157,    162, 

'83,    195,    206,    215,    220,  237, 

241,     265,     270,    348,     349, 

350*. 
Norwich  Castle,  104,  225,  283, 

283"-,  339 

Nottingham,  co.,  124 
Nowton  Manor,  146 
Oakley,  216,  232,  234,  239-242, 

259,  286-287 
Occold,    216,    239,    260,    262, 

288-290,  351 
Odiham,  217 
Offton,  99,  155,  156 
Offton  Monk's  M.,  42,  43,  99 
Old   Hall,    117,   215,   226-230, 

231*.,    252*.,    274*1.,    298«., 

333»- 

Ombeford  Manor,  227 
Onehouse,  120,  235 
Oregon,  30,  31 
Orford,  6,  91,   131,   177,   178, 

253 

Ormesby,  co.  Norf.,  349 
Orwell  Haven,  117 
Orwell  Park,  8,  13,  17,  42,  44, 

60,  61,  64,  66,  70,  loo,  101, 

103,  117,  224,  225 
Orwell  River,  i,  70 
Osmundeston,  co.  Norf.,  305, 

306 

Otley,  2,  30,  76-85,  I22»i.,  309 
Otteham  Abbey,  227 
Oulton     M.,      ioin.,      104*1., 

225*1.,  245*.,  271*2. 
Ousden,  347,  347*. 
Overapys,    55 
Overbury  M.,  131,  190-193 
Overhall    M.,    2,    77-83,    85, 

97*1.,  192 

Oxburgh,  66,  260,  309,  309*1. 
Oxelanda,  128 
Oxford,  40,  148,  187,  238,  240, 

299 
Oxford,  co.,  81,  82,  134,  238, 

253 

Pakenham,  205,  212*2.,  320 
Palestine,  25 
Palgrave,  216,  240,  250*1.,  291, 

327,  34i 

Parham  H.  M.,  258*.,  336*1. 
Paris,  258 
Partable  Wood,  341 


IX. 

Pearles,  145 

Peckham,  241 

Pepers  M.,  183*2. 

Pepres,  251 

Petristill,  52 

Pettaugh,  120,  219 

Peyton  Hall  M.,  41*2. 

Peyton's  or  Manner's  M.,  131, 

213 

Picardy,  28 
Pipe,  co.  Stafford,  36 
Pippes,  123 

Plain's  Farm,  174,  175 
Playford,  2,  15,  36,  37,  61,  86- 

92,  94,  1 10,  141,  262,  340 
Plessis  or  Pond  H.   M.,  131, 

'59 
Plomesgate     Hundred,     121, 

121*2.,  244,  258*2.,  336*2. 
Plugearth  or  Plugeard,  128 
Plymouth,  98,  99 
Poictou,  88 
Polstead,   138,   139,  202,  203, 

212 

Pond  H.   M.,    158,    161,   162, 

166*2.,  170 

Pontefract  Castle,  186 
Pontoise  Abbey,  82 
Port  Famine,  98 
Portland,  U.S.A.,  30,  31 
Portobello,  64,  70 
Pountney  Manor,  349 
Prestetuna,  128 
Preston,    60,     151,    152,     185, 

185*2.,  207 

Princethorp,  co.  Warw.,  12*2. 
Priory    Manor,    Kersey,    131, 

183,  194*2. 

Prittlewell  Priory,  206 
Pulham,  co.  Norf.,  162 
Purdies  or  Purdews  M.,  2,  70 
Putney,  68 
Pylecot,  333 
Quintero,   98 
Ramsholt,  41*2. 
Rattlesden,  198,  207,  212*2. 
Ravenham  Church,  27 
Raveningham,  co.  Norf.,  335 
Raworth,   193 
Raydon  Hall  M.,  190*2. 
Raysis  Manor,  269 
Reading,  152 
Rectory  Manor,  2,  55-56 
Redenhall,  316 
Redesham  Hall,  248 
Redgrave,   90,   no,   124,   216, 

225,  245,  271,  272,  275,  292- 

293,  297,  322,  335,  342 
Redhall     al.    Brampton      al. 

Brompton     M.,     2,     33*1., 


Redisham,  223,  341 
Redlingfield,     216,     294-295, 

298,  351 

Reedham,  co.  Norf.,  282 
Rendham,  309 
Rendlesham,  67*2.,  176,  213 
Reydon,  79,  88«.,  190,  191 
Reysses,  269 
Rheims,  132 
Riby  Grove,  co.   Line.,   223, 

224 


X. 


INDEX    LOCORUM. 


Richmond,  co.  Surrey,  347 
Rickinghall,  Nether,  296.  335 
Rickinghall,    Superior.     216, 

3$  3,  196-297 

Ridlesworth,  co.  Norf..  6.  54 
Riaghall,  337 
Ringihall,  bin.,  348 
Risbridge   Hund.,   83,    12111., 

191*.,    345".,   303"-.  33"1-. 

347"  • 

Risby,  89,  146 
Rishangles,    64*1.,    137,    216, 

226,     276*1.,    294,     298-300, 

308,  310 

Riston,  co.  Norf.,  in 
Kivcnhall   Place,   co.    Essex, 

Rivershall  M.,  2,  it,  13,  114 

Rochester,  43,  104,  in.  315 

Rokehall,  20 

Rome,  187 

Roraney,  315 

Ropers,  192 

Rossington,  co.  York.  213 

Rougham,  7,  222,  299 

Rouse  H.  M.,  i,  30,  32-34 

Roxburgh  Castle,  88 

Roy  don  H.,  CO.  Norf.,  265 

Royston,  320 

Kudham  Manor,  226 

Rushbrook,   140 

Rushes  and  Jennies  M.,  215, 

27 '-273,  276 
Rushfeld,  171 
Rushmere,  2,  9,  15,  93-95,  123, 

37» 

Russell's  Manor,  2,  41-42 
Rutland,  186,  315 
Ryes,  131,  142,  311 
Rysing,  41,  43,  106 
Ryston,  co.  Norf.,  in 
St.  Albans.  218 
St.   Bartholomew's  or  Bertil- 

meme's  M.,  2,  110-112 
St.  Botolph's  Within  Aldgate, 

320 

St.  Clere,  co.  Kent,  222 
St.  Etheldreda  Ch.,  174 
St.  John's  M.,  216,  275,  297 
St.  Peter's  M.,  2,  64*.,  70,  74*. 
Salop,  co.,  82,  188,  224,  232 
Sam  ford     Hund.,    5«.,    51"., 

59*.,  63*1.,   67*1.,   73,   88w., 

92K.,      IO4«.,       Il8n.,       I22H., 

131,  169,  169*.,  190*.,  213, 

235,  272*.,  296*1. 
Sampson's   H.   M.,    131,    181- 

182,  195 

Sandringham,  co.  Norf.,  til 
Saxham,  89,  207,  303 
Saxmundham  Ch.,  308 
Saxthorp.  15 
Sayham  Hall,  1381. 
Scarborough  Castle,  78 
Scole,  co.  Norf.,  304,  306 
Scotland,  28,  78,  87,  88,  149, 

278 

Scot's  H.,  co.  Kent,  4,  309 
Scot's  Manor,  2,  66 
Scrotchy,  co.  Norf.,  27 
Seckford  H.  M.,  3,  5-10*.,  36, 

72 


Semer,  131,  148,  182,  183,  198, 

201-203,  *<>7.  213 
Shalford,  co.  Surrey,  132 
Shelfhanger,  co.  Norf.,  65 
Shetland  Manor,  136,   139 
Shelley,  191,  192 
Shelton,  co.  Norfolk.  329*1. 
Shepherd's  Lay,  144 
Sherburne  Castle,  Oxford,  82 
Shipdam,  co.  Norf.,  161 
Sholand   or   Sholland    H.   or 

Lame  M.,  2,  70 
Shotley,  59,  61,  73,  88,  90,  240 
Shottery,  6 

Shottisham,  66,  161,  162 
Shrewsbury,  27,  78,  224 
Shrubland,  69,  232 
Sidmouth,  195,  200,  210 
Singleton  Lodge,   co.    Lane., 

60 

Sion  College,  133 
Smallbridge  Manor,   196 
Smythlands,    199 
Snetherton,  co.  Norf.,  214 
Snoring,  Great,  169 
Snoring  Parva,  351 
Soham,  19 
Somerleyton,    160,    169,    237, 

294,  3°9 

Somerset,  142,  156.  219,  336 
Somersham  Manor,  156 
Somerton  Manor,  92*1. 
Sotterley,  22 

Southgatc,  co.  Middx.,  60 
Southorp  Manor,  147 
South  Sea,  98 
Spain,  29,  88,  142,  238,  314 
Springfield  H.,  co.  Essex,  192 
Spring  Hall,  174 
Sproughton,  70 
Stafford,  co.,  6,  36,  142,  160, 

IOOM. 

Stamford,  315 
Stanbake,  116 
Stanley  H.,  co.  Salop,  232 
Stanmere.  co.  Sussex,  82 
Stanningfield,  244,  322 
Stanstead,   351.,    174,    208"., 

339"  • 
Stanstead    al.    Stanstreet    H. 

M.,  131,  142-145 
Stapleton,  co.  Glouc.,  60 
Starston,  co.  Norf.,  5.1 
Staverton  Manor,  106 
Stebbing,  co.  Essex,  152 
Steeple  Bumstead,  165 
Sterborough,  27 
Steyning,  315 
Stinton,  co.  Norf.,  50 
Stody  M.,  co.  Norf.,  293 
Stoke,  51,  216,  247,  262,  281, 

301-302,  314,  351 
Stoke,  co.  Kent,  299 
Stoke  Ash,  216,  301-303,  334 
Stoke  Nay  land,  160.  20-11. 
Stoke-on-Trcnt,  28 
Stoneham's  Manor,  215,  233 
Stonehouse  or  Stone  Castle,  29 
Stoneworks,   117 
Stonham,  45,  284,  341 
Stonham  Aspal,  123,  244 
Stonham,  Great,  341 


Stonham  Parva,  280,  281,  341 
Stow  Hund.,  131,  I4i«.,  174"., 

215,     22211..   247>/.,     248,     257, 

258,    273»«.,  277,    281,    319, 

319*1. 

Stow,  West,  Manor,  1771. 
Stowey,  290 
Stowlangtoft,  205,  218 
Stowmaiket,  122,  222,  254 
Stradbroke,  50,  53 
Stratlord-upon-Slaney,  315 
Stratton,    2,   62,   99,    101-103, 

"7 

Stratton,  co.  Norf.,  310 
Streatham,  co.  Surrey,  315 
Strensham,  co.  Wore.,  53 
Struestuna,  128 
Struston  ( ?),  101 
Sturston  Church,  240 
Stusthope,  78 

Stuston,  216,  242,  286,  304-306 
Stutton  Manor,  11,  13,  114 
Sudbury,    140.   141,    148,  215, 

224,  311 
Suddon,  260 
Midp.uk.  227 
Sulham.  149 
Sulvey's  Manor,  88«. 
Surrey,  co.,  7,  8,  50,  69,  80, 

152,  241,  265,  315,  322,  329, 

347 
Sussex,  co.,  41,  68,  69,  82,  108, 

'55 

Sutton,  4,  12,  1 14 
Sutwolde.  348 
Swartsawfield,  313 
Swatshall   M.,    215,    268-271, 

313,  314*.,  317 
Swefling,  I2i«. 
Sweneland  Manor,  33 
Swift's  Manor,  185 
Swilland  Manor,  136 
Syleham,  123 
System   Church,   150 
Syvay  or  Synagon,  304 
Tatshall,  27 
Tatteston,  12 
Tattingstone.    12,    16,   44,   67, 

68,  119 

Tenchebray,  15 
Tlronanne,  241 
Tewkesbury,  79 
Thame,  20 
Theberton,  66,  342 
Thedwestry   Hund.,  131,  196, 

207,  207*».,  2i2«.,  213*. 
Thelnetham,    214,    228,    239, 

259,    260,    302*.,    314,    320, 

35° 

Theronenne,  54,  80 
Thetford,  4.  91,  172 
Thetford  Priory,  104,  150.  243, 

296 

Theydon,  co.  Essex,  142 
Thilton  M.,  co.  Norf.,  302 
Thingoe  Hundred,   89*1..   o'. 

ig&n.,    202W. 

Thirby.  co.  York,  91 
Thistfeden  H.  M.,   I,   19,  21- 

22 

Thodenham.  110 


Thoresby    Park,    co.    Notts, 

124". 

Thorington,  133,  307 
Thormerton  Manor,  147 
Thorndon,  4».,  216,  252,  257, 

258,  294*.,  307-311 
Thorney,  277 
Thornham,    216,    252*.,   254, 


-TKu        ^ 

Inornham  Magna,  5,  216,  222, 

269,  271,  302,  312 
Thornham    Parva,    216,    247, 

269,  326,  331  «.,  351 
Thornton  Heath,  329 
Thorp,  140,  205 
Thorpe,  2,  52-56,  66,  113,  205, 

216,  274«. 

Thorpe  Gaywood  M.,  106 
Thorpe  Morieux,  131,  204-207 
Thrandeston,  83,  216,  240-242, 

260,  265,  269,  318-321,  323, 

348 
Thrandeston     Woodhall    M., 

216,  318-321,  349 
Thredling  Hundred,  296". 
Throckyldys,  55 
Throgton  al.  Thruton  al.  Cas- 

tell's  M.,  131,  207 
Thurleston,  15 
Thurlow,  231,  322 
Thuxton,  3,  10 
Thwaite,     216,     231,     231"., 

232^,265,320,322,  323,  331 
I  irmvorth  Manor,   2i3»z. 
Tittleshall  Church,  134". 
Toft's  Manor,  151 
Toledo,  29 

Tondc,  Normandy,  65 
Topcroft,  51 
Toppesfield   H.  M.,  131,  158, 

161-168,  170,  192 
Tournay,  54,  80,  241 
Towton  Field,  28 
Trent,  179 
Trimley,  42,  51,  62,  89,  96-103, 

106,  118,  284". 
Trimley  St.  Martin,  2,  43,  73, 

97-99,  I05.  io$n.,  ««7,  '"8«., 

26l». 

Trimley  St.  Mary,  2,  63,  98, 
104-106,  20IM.,  212,  27171. 

Truro,  224 

Tuddenham,  2,  36,  37,  107- 
112,  131,  214,  305 

Tunbridge,  186,  227 

Tunstall  Church,  300 

Turstanestuna,  129 

Turton  Tower,  265-266 

Tuttington  (  ?),  86 

Twickenham,  323 

Tynctcwall  Hylle,  55,  56 

Tyrell's  Hall  M.,  i,  14,  16-17 

Ulvcrston  Hall,  217 

Upton,  co.  Northants,  182 

Uxbridge,  81 

Valence  Manor,  37 

Vaux  Manor,  51".,  I22«. 

Venice,  198 

Virdones,  205 

Wadgate,  115 

Wagger's  Farm,  185 


INDEX    LOCORUM. 

Wakehurst,  co.  Kent,  108 
Waldene,  227 

Waldershare,  co.  Kent,  in 
Waldingfield,  12,  176,  212*. 
Waldringfield,  2,  11,  58,  74*., 

113-114,  154 
Wales,  235,  283 
VValgrave,  309 
Walpole  Church,  294 
Walsham,  151,  152,  264,  268, 

326 

Walsham,  North,  327 
Walsham,  South,  M.,  106 
Walsingham  Priory,  150 
Walton,  i,  2,  19,  43,  98,  104- 

106,   115-119 
Walton,  co.  Bucks,  138 
Walton-cum-Trimley  M.,  41, 

11(3,  117 

Walton  D'Eivile,  205 
Wangford  Hundred,  27". 
Wantisden,  73,  120 
Waresley,  co.  Hunts,  69 
Warham,  co.  Norf.,  162 
Warley,  Little,  co.  Essex,  166 
Warneham,  214 
Warwick,   co.,    i2«.,   77,   205, 

290 
Wascolies  al.   Wastcolies  M., 

i,  3°,  34 

Waterstock,  co.  Oxford,  299 
Watkins,  63 
Wattisfield,  308,  308". 
Wattisham,  37,  131,  177,  208- 

2IO 

Waveney,  River,  215,  342 
Waxham,  209,  276 
Weald  Hall,  co.  Essex,  224 
Welholme's  M.,  216,  319-320 
Welledon,  279 
Wendon,  co.  Essex,  174 
Wendover  Dean,  30 
Wenham,  Great,  5iw.,  I22«. 
Wenham,  Little,  51,  303 
Westerfield,  52,  no,  122 
Westham,  co.  Essex,  314 
Westhame's  Manor,  145 
Westhorpe,  216,  223,  264,  324- 

329.  345-347 
West  Indies,  64 
Westminster,  80,  82,  88,  1411., 

142,  236,  315,  346 
Weston   Horpole   and   Istede 

M.,  345 

\Veston,  North.  1 10 
Westtofte's  Church.   15 
Westwood,  co.  Wore.,  69 
Wethcrden,  141,  225 
Wetheringsett,   108,   137,  215, 

216,     247,     281,     310,     323, 

323"-,  330-331,  34i,  35°,  35" 
Wexford,  co.,  142 
Whatfield,  131,  132,  161,  169, 

171,  182,  198,  207,  211-214 
Whelnetham,  120 
Whepstead  Manor,  146 
Wherstead,  13,  109,  190*1. 
Whitehall,  238,  263 
Whittingham,  51 
Whitton,  15,  323 
Wickham,  222,  227 


XI. 

Wickhambrook,  i2i«.,  igm. 
Wickham    Market,    21,  8yt., 
116 

Wickham    Skeith,    216,    252, 

253,  303,  310,  332-337 
Wicks  Bishop,  45*. 
Widial,  co.  Herts,  59 
Wigenhall,  co.  Norf.,  4,  161 
Wighill,  co.  York,  149 
Wight,  Isle  of,  25 
Wighton,  co.,  Norf.,  306 
Wilby  Manor,  28 
Wilford  Hund.,  i,  2i«.,  41*., 

I25«.,  305*. 

Willisham,  131,  145,  342 
Wilts,  co.,  12,  178 
Wimbledon,  co.  Surrey,  69 
Winchester,  78,  186 
Winchesters,  M.,  126,  281-282 
Winchindon,  co.  Bucks,   161 
Windlesowres    Castle,    135 
Windsor,    So,    151,    160,    223, 

328 

\Vmgfield,  53».,  310 
Wingham,  co.  Kent,  210 
Wisbech,  322 
Witchenham  Magna,  222 
Witham  Manor,  226 
Witherton      (Barnard's     and 

Manton's)  M.,  131,  175 
Witnesham,  2,  33;?.,  69,   120- 

125,  289,  289;;. 
Wivenhoe,  co.  Essex,  150 
Wodehous  M.,  269,  270 
Woodbridge,    i,   6-8,   30,   38, 
41".,   50-52,   55,  60,  71,   72, 

74,  in,  117,  138^.,  150,  224 
Woodhall  M.,  2i2w.,  216,  302- 

3°3 

Woodhouse  M.,  216,  271,  317 
Wood  Risings,  350 
Woolpit,  293,  326 
Worcester,  co.,  53,  69 
Worlaby,  82 
Worlingworth  Hall,  314 
Wortham,  338-343 
Wortham,  86,  88,   124,  2o8n., 

216,  234,  252,  269,  292,  338- 

343 

Wrentham,  H.  M.,  20,  124 
Wrotham,  81 
Wycombe,  co.  Bucks,  178 
Wykc  Honn,  co.   Middlx.,  82 
Wykes  Priory,  150 
Wyneston,  326 

Wyvenhoe,  co.  Essex,  84,  151 
Wyverstone,  5.  216,  251,  269, 

325,  326,  344-347». 
Valding,  co.  Kent,  12 
Yarmouth,  162 
Yaxley,    216,    240,    242,    252, 

260,     262,     263,     269,     275, 

297«.,  320,  32on.,  326,  348- 

352 

York,  27 
York,   co.,    83,   91,    149,    1S3> 

161,  213,  314.  349,  35° 
Yoxford.  29,  48,   in 
Zante,  77 


INDEX    NOMINUM. 


Abbott,  153,  172 
Abergavenny,  79-83,  161 
Achi,  268,  324,  344 
Acton,  112 
Adair,  196,  295 
Adelalmus,  268,  273 
Adelwold,  18 
Ailfric,  Bp.,  231 
Ailric,  18,  46 
Ailward,  173 
Alan,  E.,  19,  93,  94,  108 
Albemarle,  Title,  19,  23- 

»5,  57 

Albert,  71,  73 
Aldeda,  107 
Alderson,  157 
Alderton,  59 
Aldbam,  148,  160 
Aldis,  52 
Aldrich-e,  20,  22 
Aldwolf,  19 
Aldwulf,  115,  128 
Aldwult,  116 
Alestan,  226,  229 
Alexander,  160 
Aleyn,  319 
Alfah,  338 
Alfer,  67,  86 
Alfgar,  146 
Alfleda,  332,  344 
Alflet,  344 
Alfnod,  186 
Algar,  46,  126,  286,  338 
Algatt  or  Aldgatt,  340 
Alger,  268 
Allnot,  127 
Allubaste,  163 
Almar,    14,   19,  47,   53, 

106,  127,  128,  264 
Alncsbourn,     Prior    of, 

7« 

Alnewyk,  221 
Alnoth,  119,  127 
Alpe,  310 
Aired,  247 
Alric,  19 

Alrich,  14,  53,  236 
Alsey,  256,  267,  268 
Alsius,  268 

Alston,  3,  138-139,  256 
Althorne,  153,  154 
Alti,  324 
Aluric,  3,  5,  10,  46,  93, 

96,   100-102,  107,   116, 

126,  127,  234,  252,  261, 

268,288,294,332,344 
Alvard  or  Alverdc,  40, 

71 


Alveva,  115,  267,  288 

Alviet,  267 

Alwin,  3,  n,  49,  50,  127, 

128,246,318,344,345 
Alyngton,  271 
Ambervil,  101 
Amler,  224 
Ampulford,  112 
Amrid,  171 
Ana,  3 
An  and,  234 
Andrew,  1 1 ,  76 
Andrews,  153,  154,  '59 

>74 

Anguish,  29,  33 
Anne,  168 
Annud,  3 
Anos,  325 
Anselm,  318 
Anson,  314 
Anstruther,  169 
Anton,  31,  137 
Apleton,  189 
Applethwaite,   1 1 1 
Appleton,  163,  184,  290 
Arblaster,  282 
Arcadius,  117 
Archer,  171 
Archis,  294 
Arcis,  23,  24,  57 
Arden,  147 
Ardern,  204 
Argentein,  264 
Argyle,  Title,  134,  238 
Armiger,  83 
Armine  or  Agrenynne. 

221 

Arnold,  21,  235,  236 
Arnolf,  140 
Arras,  294 
Arthur,  Prince,  205 
Arundel,  E.  of,   53,   79, 

81,  155,  179,  191,  263 
Arundel  and  Surrey,  E. 

of,  41,  106,  116 
Aschil,  46 
Ashfield,  156,  218 
Ashley,  139 
Aspal,  88,  316 
Aspale,  86,  326 
Asshefeld,  272,  316 
Assheford,  298 
Astley,   in,  162 
Atherwald,  50 
At  hi  >11.  Duke  of,  in 
Athowe,  316 
Athulf  or  Eadulf,  Bp., 

231,  291 


Atkinson,  7,  8 
At  wood,  283 
Auberville,    see    Obur- 

ville 

Audeley,  20,  33 
Audley,    54,    123,     140 

180,  218 
Augemere,  184 
Aula  Combusta,  30,  31 
Aunger,  247 
Austen,    147,    152,    188, 

214 

Avenington,  168 
Aylmer,  Bp.,  234,  348, 

35.' 
Babington,  41,  248 

Backler,  58 

Bacon,  8,  38,  50,  83,  90, 

109,  112,  117,  122,  l62, 

218,   228,   236,   236*., 

338,245,251,263, 271, 
276,    280,    287,    292, 

292M.,     297,     299,     309 
316,319,322,329,335, 

343.   347,   347"-,   349- 

350 

Bacoun,  326 
Bacton,  252 
Bade,  290 
Badlesmere,  155 
Bailtoft,  143 
Baines,  239 
Baker,  51,  55,  171 
Bald,  The,  344 
Baldock,  278 
Baldry,  no 
Baldwin,  Abbot,  345 
Bale,  187 
Bales,  41 

Balistarius,  267,  268 
Balle,  269,  272,  326 
Ballisby,  188 
Bamborough,  71 
Banaster,  77 
Banbury,  Earl  of,  137 
Bangor,  Bp.  of,  347 
Banham,  15 
Bardolf,  26-28,  30 
Bardolph,  27«. 
Bared,  48 
Barham,  347 
Barkar,  240 
Barker,  41-43,  51,61,69, 

70,  99,  102,  106,  117 
Barkley,  236 
Barnardiston,  12,  13,  44, 

48,  113,  114,  311,  347 
Barnes,  22 


Baron,  118,  248 
Barrel,  167 
Barrel!,   160 
Barrow,  329 
Bartlett,  335 
Harwell,  213 
Barwick,  165 
Barwood,  41 
Basset,  164,  178,  279 
Bassyngbourn,  97 
Bate,  153 

Bateman,  221,  228,  229, 
239,259,260,287,  291, 

3°4,  3°5>  3'<>,  3'9 
Bath  and  Wells,  Bp.  of, 

53 

Bathun  or  Bathonia,  155 
Battes,  282 
Bavent,  325 
Bawdy,  it,  114 
Bayeux,  Bp.  of,  5,   10, 

14,  15,  217,  288 
Bayous,  97 
Beacham,  108 
Beachcroft,  185 
Beale,    138,     139,     142, 

'52 
Beauchamp,  79,  83,  121, 

140,  178,  179,  183,  187, 

'94,  287,  305*.,  307 
Beaufoe,  287 
Beaufort,  27 
Beaufre,  229 
Beaumond,  172 
Beaumont,    28,    30,  69, 

122,  125,  143,  '94,  '95, 

201,  205,  254,  280,  28l, 

329, 342 

Beck  e,  221,  316 
Becket,    Thos.    a,    227, 

257 

Bedell,  198 

Bedingfield.  4,  5,  38, 
47,  57,  66,  '°8,  109, 
162,  169,  214,  260-262, 
270,  271,  275,  294, 
294".,  295,  302,  306, 
309,  310,  319,  349 

Bedle,  198 

Bedwall,  334,  337 

Bed  well,  334 

Bedyngfeild,  273,  297 

Bedyngfeld,  276,  306 

Belamey,  228 

Belefol,  77 

Bell,  173 

Bcllafago,  234,  338,  339 

Bellasys,  Lord,  82 


INDEX    NOMINUM. 


Xlll. 


Belle,  326 

Blofeld,  105                       j 

Bellocampo,     194,    211, 

Blogat,  351                        1 

312,   269,   305 

Blogate,  325,  351             1 

Bellomonte,      96,      105, 

Blois,  20,  22,  38,  39,  47,  ] 

106,  122,  194,  195,  201 

48,  54,  55,  '72 

Belsham,  161 

Blome,  276,  326                '. 

Belsted,  71 

Blomefield,  108                  : 

Beltz,  88 

Blomfield,  123,  153,  209,  : 

Bemeshe,   142 

34'                                    1 

Bendish,  165,  166,  192 

Blomeville,  209,  209*1.      ; 

Bendyssh,  165 

Blond,    264,    268,    324, 

Benet,  169 

344,  345                          1 

Benbale,  325 

Blondevile,  v.  Kinge 

Bennaworth,  152 

Blosse,  95,  289 

Bennett,  101 

Blount,  78,  79 

Bentley,  181 

Bloy,  48 

Beorn,  10 

Bloys,  33 

Ber,  148 

Blumville    or    Blunde-  ] 

Berard,    159,    211,    212, 

ville,  221 

255 

Bluncheville,  261 

Berdefeld,  191 

Blund,  325 

Bergavenny,    Title,  78- 

Blundell,  340 

ll 

Blundevill,  110 

Bergh,  15 

Blunt,  211 

Beridge,  206 

Blyant    or    Bleaunt    or 

Berkeley,  133,  3  19,  335 

Blyaunt,  253-255,  313, 

Berkley,  236*.,  298 

336,  337 

Berklmen,  no 

Blyklyng,  112 

Bermyngham,  168 

Bocland,  208,  252 

Bernan,  205 

Bohun,  155,  157 

Bernard,    51,    102,    119, 

Bois,  al.  Bosco  or  Boys 

227,  270,  281 

or  Du  Bois,  150,  225 

Berners,    88,    194,   201, 

Bokenham   or    Bucken- 

232 

ham,    163,     171,    214, 

Berney,    162,    166,   170, 

230,  270,  302,  314,  3  15, 

282 

317 

Bernham,  283 

Bokynham,  214 

Berri,    14,    18,   46,    108, 

Bole  or  Bulle,  351 

"5 

Boleyn,  236 

Berriles  or  Beziles,  304 

Bolney,  137 

Berton,  253 

Bolton,  200,  245 

Bertram,  88 

Boltos,  153 

Beso,  267 

Bomes,  316 

Besset,  209 

Bonaparte,  142 

Bethune,  25 

Bond,  10,  14,  167,  171 

Belts,    22,    29,    33,    34, 

Bonde,  44,  67,  106,  119 

342 

Booke  29 

Bex  well,  111 

Bordes,  89 

Beyjus,  153 

Borle,  213 

Bigot,  10,  14,  16,  19,  40, 

Botetourt,  149,  278,  179, 

42,  53,  57,  6',  6z,  77, 

281 

86,  93,   96,    loo,    102, 

Botiller,  155 

104,  106,  115-119,  125- 

Botillier  or  de  Butler, 

129,     173,     '78,    211, 

218 

217,  234,  268,  286 

Bottilere,  213 

Billingford,  321 
Bindloss,  I38«. 

Boulge,  15 
Boulogne,  Earl  of,  257 

Bingej  254 

Bourchier,      136,      139, 

Bird,  54,  154 

192,  222 

Bishop,  21,  22,  310 

Bourges,  3,   10,   21,  46, 

Blacke,  116 

67,  93>  >°7 

Blackman,  3,  14,  86,  96, 

Bourne,  272 

115,  116,  127,  128 

Bous,  225 

Black  Prince,  140 

Bouverie,  52 

Blagrave,  152 

Bovile,  or  Bouvilla,  53, 

Blake,  265 

225 

Blakeham,  146-149 

Bo  ville,  120 

Blakely,   321 

Bovvden,  160". 

Blakenham,  146-149,  154 

Bower,  51,  213 

Blenerhasset,    108,   236 

Bowes,  69,  71 

3°5 

Boxford,  296 

Blenerhaysett,  331 

Boxstead,  200 

Blennerhassctt,  242,  27^ 

Boyland,  304,  305 

Boylaund,  244 

Boys,  228 

Brabant,  Duke  ofj  135 

Brabant  and  Loveyne, 
Earl  of,  257 

Brabrookes,  153 

Bradenham,  336 

Bradford,  Earl  of,  224 

Brady,  15 

Bragg,  163,  168,  171, 
173 

Braham,  108,  239,  248, 
320 

Brame,  334,  336 

Braiseworth,  226 

Brame,  337 

Brampton,  190,  239,  260 

Brand,  12,  22,  138,  139, 
152,  198-200,  202 

Brandon,  4,  29,  38,  63, 
97,  102,  105,  181,  184, 
187,  198,  215,  230,  247, 
253.  259,  262,  281, 
289,308,309,  316,  327- 

329,  347 

Branthwayte,  124 
Bray,  97 
Braybroke,      165,     218, 

252,  253,  351 
Braybrook,  165,  253 
Bredfield,  331 
Brenamon,  279 
Brendhall,  31 
Bresyngham,  84 
Breton,  Le,  272 
Brett,  260 

Brette,  Lord  de  la,  187 
Brettenham,  326 
Brcwode,  50 
Brewse  or  Brewosa,  15 

32,  5°,  5',  53,  65,  73 

122,  123,  203 
Brewster,  6,  124 
Breyne,  319 
Brian,  165 
Brichmar,  41 
Brichtric,  18,  46 
Brictere,  288 
Bricthmar,  159 
Brictmar,  40,  57,  73,  74 

loo,    217,    296,    312 

33° 
Brictric,  324 

Bridges,  5,  314 
Bridgeman,  224 
Brien,  140 
Briggs,  203 
Brightmar,  14,  100 
Brightnoth,   19 
Brighton,  69 
Brightrich,  19 
Brightridge,   127 
Brightwold,  19 
Brihmar,  57,  128 
Brihnoth,  128 
Briht,  57 
Brihtman,  46 
Brihtmar,  40,   107,   113 

114,  264 
Brihtnoth,  46 
Brihtric,  10,  35,  57,  61 

62,  100,  104,  116 
Briseworth,  247,  313 


Jrismer,  40,  100 
Jristol,    Title,    91,    92, 

94 

Bristric,  312,  313 

Jritfleda,  296 

Jrithnoth,  96,   158 

Brithwold,  76 

iritiffe,  261 

Brito,  272 

Brittell,  159 

Broase,  155 

Broke,  16,  17,  68-70,  72, 

7.4,  9°,  92,  94,  95,  218, 

3°3 

Broke  al.  Cobham,  81 
Brome,  81,  275 
Bromewell,    260 
Brond,  206,  207 
3ronde  or  Brand,  202 
Brook,  68,  163 
Brooke,  36,  37,   48,  52, 

82,  no,  137,  218,  219, 

29°,  33",  341 
Brooksband,  55 
Broome,  239 
Brotherton,    116,    n6«., 

272 
Broughton,      195,     245, 


Broune,  221 

Brown,  46,  102,  136,  259, 

326 

Browne,  29,  31,  118,  281 
Brownrigg,  153 
Brownwin,  93 
Bruce,  114 
Bruera,  277 
Bruere,  348 
Brugg,  141 
Bruman,  101,  116 
Brumar,   115,   127 
Brumer,  53 
Brumpton,  120 
Brun,  281 
Brundish,   153 
Brungart,  313 
Bruninge,    198-200 
Brunloc,  332 
Bryan,  165,  191 
Bryghtyene,  245 
Bubba,  226 
Buck,   174 
Buckenham,  v.  Boken- 

ham 
Buckingham,  D.  of,  28, 

80,  81,  280 
Bucton,    239,    253, 

287 

Buddie,  172 
Bull,  70 
Bumstede,  110 
Bunn,  171 
Bungeye,  326 
Burchard,  246,  247,  277, 

3°«>  3'3,  332,  345 
Burchric,  127 
Bures,   185,   191,  329 
Burgate,        207,        244, 

244«.,    269,   271,   273, 

277,  278,  291,  3"7 
Burgeyny,     v.     Berga- 

venny 


286, 


XIV. 


INDEX   NOMINUM. 


Burgh,  18,  M,  21,  26, 
46,  47-  62,  94,  I39> 

•5'.  «»3,  *57.  »7»,  309 

Burghersh.  31,  32,  124 

Burghlejr,  Lord,  259 

Burke.  143 

BurkeK,  172 

Burkil,  170 

Burnaville,  16,  62 

Bnrnoville,  102,  268 

Burric,   23,   24,   46 

Burridge,  127 

Burrows,  290 

Burser,  296 

Burton,  41 

Burton-Phillipson,  60 

Burwicke,  175 

Bury,  164 

Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Ab- 
bot of  73, 1 13, 131, 132 
140,  145,  'So,  '55,  "59 
164,  176,  184,  186, 194. 
201,  204,  208,  211,  231, 
234,  240,  246,  252,  264. 
266,  268,  273,  286,  288, 
289,291,  292,  296,  301. 
307,312,313,318,322. 
3*4,  330,  332,  338,  339. 
343-34S,  347 

Burys,  272 

Bush,  114 

Busshe  or  Busch,  283, 
283*. 

Butcher,  66,  66«. 

Butler,  191 

Butts,  63,  316 

Buzton,  123,  166 

Byelles,  108 

Byles,  144 

Bysewrtn,  229 

Bysshope,  310 

Cadurcis,  277 

Caen,  256,  318 

Cage,  7,  10,  195 

Cainer.  213 

Caldecote,  118 

Caldicott,  347 

Callis,  75 

Calthorp,  51,  287 

Calthorpe,  51,  209,  236 

Calvert,  30 

Cambridge.  325 

Camden,  175,  323 

Campa,  186 

Campania,  10,  19 

Campbell,  134 

Campton,   172 

Candish.  r.  Cavendish 

Candos,  289,  290 

Candysshe,  98 

Canesio,  344 

Cannele,   153 

Canterbury,  Abp.  of, 
28,  78,  86,  161,  227. 
257,  281 

Canterbury,  Prior  of, 
168,  178 

Cantilupc,  77,  78 

Canute.  292 

Canyrhin.  168 

Capel.    181,   188 

Caperon,  16,  68,  119 

Capet,  q i n. 


Carewc,  219 
Carleford,  26 
Carl  ton,   17 
Carlyon.    no 
Carnac,  141,  144 
Carr,  142 
Carrill,  214 
Carryll,  214 
Cartwright,   16,  41,  45, 

61 

Caryll,  75,  214 
Casson,  230 
Castell,  335 
Castellan,  132 
Castello,  207 
Castle,  51,  52,  59 
Castleton,  206,  306,  335 
Caston,  73 
Catesby,  214 
Catteston   or   Cateston, 

327 

Caundish,  102 
Caundyish,  165 
Caundyssh,  98,  105 
Caux,  15 
Cavendish,   63,    73,   89, 

97-102,  105,  118,  191 
Cavendysh,  169 
Cavill,  114 
Cawsey,  230 
Cecil,   156 
Celestre,  326 
Chafy,  315 
Chalon,  92 
Chamber,  305,  306 
Chamberlain-e,  82,  207 
Chamberlayne,  196 
Chamberleync,  176 
Champagne,  Count   of, 

24 

Champaignc,  254 
Champayne,  25$ 
Chandos,  89,  288,  314, 

3'5 

Chapelyn,  50 
Chaplayn(e),  195,  199 
Chaplin,   153,   194 
Chapman,  289 
Charlton,  180,  187 
Charman,  150 
Charnell,  255 
Charnels,  287 
Chateris,    Prioress    of, 

178 

Chaucer,  184 
Chedworth,  Lord,  210 
Chelsworth,  149 
Cheney,  275 
Cheric,  288 

Chester,  al.  Cressy.  320 
Chester.  E.  of.  77.  304 
Chcvallier,  219,  220 
Chcworth,  178 
(  hoyne,  213,  245 
Chichester,  299 
Chichester,  Bp.  of.  297 
Chirhestcr,  Earl  of,  82 
( 'hipping,  267 
Chirch,  260 
Chirche,  269,  270,   271, 

317 

Chitting,  290 
Churchill,  51.  52 


Churchman,  329 
Chything,  290 
Chyvaler,  78,  79 
Clanfield,  171 
Clare,  25,  26,  140,  208 
Clare,  E.  of,  207,  227 
Clare    and    Glouc.,    E. 

of,  77 

Clarence,  Duke  of,  84 
Clark,  153,  167 
Clarke,  90,  91,  116,  125, 

'37,     '38,     '54,     '7«, 

174,  177,  '88-190,  254, 

275,  3",  322 
Clarkson,  91,  92 
Clavell,  41 
Clavering,  20 
Clay  or  Cleye,  27 
Cleere,  254,  337 
Clein,  Baron  of,  25 
Clemence,  145 
Clement  VII.,  Pope,  80, 

304,  326 

Clench,  5,  511.,  341 
Clenche,  20,  22,  54,  222 
Clere,  175,  349 
Clerk,  225 
Clerke,  184,  185,  188, 

325 

Clctton,  25 
Cleves,    38,     188,    222, 

231,    247,     253,    289, 

322,  329 

Clcye  or  Clay,  27 
Clifford.    27,    134,    300, 

309 

Clifton,  68,  87,  in,  279 
Clinche,  282 
Clinton,  79 
Clinton  and  Save,  Lord, 

Clontyng,  269 
Clopton.  4,  161,  164-166, 

169,  170,  182,  207,  253, 

281 

Cloude,  153 
Clover,  154,  167,  172 
Clyflond,  228 
Clyfton,  272,  316 
Clysewell,  218 
Cobb,  in 
Cobbald,   153 
Cobbett,  901*. 
Cobbold,  170.  171,  220 
Cobhani,  27.  28,  81,  218 
Cock,  74,  167 
Cockerel,  164 
Cockfield,  201 
Codd,  31,  34 
Coddenhnm,  123 
Coggeshall,  34.  245 
Copgeshall,    Abbot    of, 

'39 

Coillour,  351 
Coke,  81.  105,  133,  134, 

156.  161,  175,  177 
Cokebred,  213 
Cokefeld,   147,   14$.  211 
Cokefield,  131,  183.  n».». 

196.  211 

Cokerel,  160,  164 
Cockerell-e,  253 
Colborne,  38 


Cqlby,  118 
Colbye,  253,  254 
Colchester,    Abbot     of, 

290 
Coleman,   19,   109,    115, 

167,  168,  172,  228,  235, 

236,  267,  308,  338 
Colepepper      or      Cul- 

peper,  108 
Colke,  281 
Collett,  20,  22 
Oilman,  13811.,  200 
Coin,  97 

Columbers,  289,  290 
Colville,  24 
Corny  n,  179 
Congsby,  229 
Coniers,  325 
Coningsby,  82,  228 
Constable,  240 
Constantinc  the  Great, 

"7 

Conteville,  14 
Conyers,  264-266 
Cook,  170,  171,  202.  251 
Cooke,  71,  105,  139,  156, 

166,  202,  203,  212,  270, 

320,  329 
Cooper,  342 
Copinger,  144,  231.  299, 

322,  33' 
Copley,  342 
Copping.  337,  341,  342 
Corbet.  188,  276,  340 
Corbett,  55,  175,  24711., 

254 

Corbun.  234 
Corbution,  125 
Corbuzzo,  2ii 
Cordeboef,  15,  282,  283 
Cordell.  37.  337 
Cornhill,  135 
Cornies,  326 
Cornu  Bovis,  282 
Cornwaleys,     74,     240, 

281 
Cornwall.  Title,  14,  15, 

25,   26,   77,    136,   257, 

307,  346 

Cornwalleys,  57.  99 
Cornwallis.   73.  74,  99, 

101-103,  176,  206,  228, 
230,  235-239,  241-243. 
259,  261.  263,  274,  286, 
287.  290,  291.  303-306, 

308,  310,    319,    321, 
329-  348 

Cory,  347 

Cossctt,      al.      Turner, 

322 

Coterell.  272 
Cotman,  228 
Cotton,  161,  184,  265, 

266,  277 
Courthois,  in 
Courtney,  221 
Cousins,  170 
Coveney,  163 
Covert.  108 
Cowcll,  321) 
Cozens.  171 
Crackncll,  34: 
Cramaville,  148 


INDEX  NOMINUM. 


xv. 


Cramwell,  7 

Crane,  5,  231,  253,  260, 

273,  284,  285 
Craneley,  268 
Cranley,  261,  263 
Cranworth,     Lord,     39, 

48 

Creame,  322 
Cree,  30 
Creeping,  339 
Crek,  19,  201 
Creke,   194,  201,  325 
Cressener,  83 
Cressy,  239,  320 
Crestener,  83 
Creting,  89 
Creyk,  201 
Crispyngg,  212 
Crofte,  177 
Crofts,  303 
Croke,  299 
Cromwell,  27j  281 
Cross,  75,  269,  342 
Crouchback,  25 
Crowe,    206,    296,    297, 

348,  349 
Crulle,  346 
Crump,  232 
Cuddon,  157,  195 
Cuffe,  315 
Cullum,   219,   223,   300, 

3" 

Culpepper,  305 

Cumberland,  E.  of,  328 

Cumin,  77 

Cumpeigne,  247 

Curry,   153 

Curson,  11,  n«.,   114 

Curthois,  in 

Curthose,  24 

Curtis,  275 

Curtlois,  in 

Curtois,  257 

Cutbert,  153,  171 

Cutbort,  163 

Cutler,    289,    290,    299, 

302,  313 
Cutting,  91 
Cyprus,  King  of,  88 
Dacre,  20 
Dade,  350 
Dagworth,  318,  319 
Dale,  97,  191,  252,  314 
D'Alencon,  107 
Dal  ton,  300 
Dameron,   94,   95,    123, 

34i 

D'Amorie,  26 
Dandy,  209 
Daniel,    167,    170,    190, 

'93,  195.  21° 
Danmartin,  277,  278 
Dansie,  153 
Danyell,  17,  297 
Darby,  342 
D'Arcy,  89,  292 
D'Aubeny,  81,  266 
Daucres,   326 
Daunce,  297 
Davers,  in 
Davey,  167 
Davie,  337 
D'Avilers,  235 


Davillers,  235,  236,  305 
Davy,  245,  252 
Davves,  66 

Dawson,  168,  170,  171 
Dawtrey  or   D'Autreys, 

196 

D'Bowyer,  320 
Dean(e),  153 
Deaves,  29 
Debenham,  51,  281 
Deekes,  163,  171 
Deerwulf,  330 
Den,  227 
Denardeston,  147 
Dendy,  259,  263 
Dengaine,  229 
Denham,  231 
Denner,  166 
Denny,  274 
Densy,  326 
Denten,  169 
Depekin,  125 
Derby,    HO,    155,  280 
Dering,  126 
Derled,  247 
Dernford,  45 
Derstan,  96 
Desart,  E.  of,  315 
Despencer,      178,      179, 

221 

Despenser,  31,  33,  78, 
79,  81,  121,  186,  187 

Despotin,  198-200 

Deve,  167 

Devereux,  137,  237 

Devon,  E.  of,  25 

Devyle,  281 

D'Ewes,   198 

Dewtrys,  167 

Deye,  254,  255,  261 

Digby,  322 

Dillingham,  21,  38,  48 

Dillon,  329 

Dipnall,   193 

Ditchfield,  116 

Docker,  284 

Doget,  272,  316 

Doggett,  83 

Dol,  252,  301,  313 

Donate,  169 

Donne,   191 

Dood,  167 

Dool,  171 

Doreward,  139 

Dorisley,  153 

Dorset,  Title,  41,  81, 
333 ,  346 

Doughty,  66,  342 

Dove,   109,    171,  334 

Dowman,  167,  171 

Downes,  282 

D'Oyley,  159-163,  166. 
170,  181,  182,  189, 
190,  192,  193,  214 

Driver,  156 

Drogo,  286 

Drury,   7,  37,  48*.,   54, 

57,  75.  '37,    175.  2°5> 
209,  222,  237,  299 

Dryver,  55,  101,  225 

Dubbell,  167 

Dudley,  141,  181.  188 

Dugdale,  27,  158 


Duke,  133,  280 
Dulyngham,  351 
Dunbar,  27 
Duncan,  319 
Duncon,  57,  74 
Dunkon,  282 
Dunstone,  i6o>z. 
Dunton,  339 
Durand,  128 
Durham,  Bp.  of,  319 
Durilda,  128 
Durrant,  10,  14,  43,  44, 

49,  126,  127 
Dusset,  290 
Dutton,  154 
Dyer,  89 
Dynechaie,  256 
Dysart,  Title,  162,  166, 

170,  214 
Eadwold,  65 
East  Angles,   Earl   of, 

292 

Eboraco,  179,  186 
Eccles,  252 
Edgar,  52,  101,  no,  121, 

122,  146,  174,  261,  284, 

289,  33' 

Edge,  200 

Edgiva,  Countess,  18 

Edith,  Queen,  76,  135 

Edmund,  23 

Ednoth,  128 

Edric,  3,  10,  14,  18,  21, 
24,  40,  43,  46,  49>  57, 
59,  61,  74,  76>  93,  lo°- 
102,  107,  108,  113,  115, 
116,  126-128,  217,  226, 
234,  246,  256,  257,  273, 
286,  288,  294,  296,  312, 
317,  318,  324,  338, 
344,  348 

Edward,  115 

Edwards,  62 

Edwin,  101,  128 

Edwold,  76 

Eglyn,  349 

Eirdale,  155 

Eld,  203 

Eldred,  166,  280 

Elfleda,  158 

Elfrida,  146 

Elizabeth,  Q.,   137 

Ellingham,  10 

Elliot,  206 

Ellis,  14,  303 

Elmham,  326,  327,  329 

Elmham,     Bp.    of,    n, 

231,  291 

Elrington,   176,    ij6n. 

Eltham,  26,  257,  346 

Elwyn,  161 

Ely,  Abbot  of,  3,  10,  14, 
16,  18,  19,  21,  23,  24, 
35,  43,  44,  46,  47,  49, 
5°,  57.  59.  67,  73,  93, 
94,  96,  loo,  107,  108, 
115,  120,  173,  196,  208, 
217,  288,  289,  330 

Ely,  Bp.  of,  ii,  116, 
174,  196,  197,  208,  209, 
281,  330,331 

Ely,  Dean  of,  17 

Erdric,  324 


Erek,  30 

Ernald,  23 

Ernet,  129 

Ernley,  313 

Ernolf,   19,  49 

Erpyngham,  270*1. 

Erroll,  Title,  265 

Essex,  de,  213 

Essex,  Title,  24,  80,  90, 

"4,  136,  '37,  158,  192, 

237 
Essington,    12,    13,    44, 

59,  "3,  "4 
Estaines,  Barony,  135 
Eston  or  Aston,  24*1. 
Etheldreda,  14,  125 
Ethelfreda,  146 
Ettell,  184 
Ettric,  86 
Eudo,   14,  96,   186,  208, 

324,  325 

Eustace,  227,  333 
Evans,  69 

Everard,  229,  261,  320 
Everet,     Everett,    171, 

342 

Everton,  218 
Evesham,  Abbot  of,  149 
Ewer,  347 
Exeter,  Bp.  of,  28 
Exeter,    Duke    of,    27, 

221,  347 
Eya,  325 
Eye,  326 
Eyre,  83,  304 
Fairds,  145 
Faleyse,  218 
Fane,  81,  304 
Fankhem,  164 
Fannther,    196 
Fardene,  30: 
Fastall,  240 
Fastolf,   15,   16,  44,  63, 

68-70,    94,    195,    219, 

253,  275,  340 
Faucombrige,  212 
Fegar,  115 
Felbrigg,  15,  84,  87,  88, 

91,  94,  141,  228,  252, 

340 

Felgate,  Fellgate,  350 
Felgeris,  304,  318 
Felice,  273,  316 
Felmyngham,  15 
Felsham,  325 
Felton,  15,  16,  61,  88-92, 

94,  141,  142,  340 
Fenne,  79 
Fenton,   141 
Fermingham,  29 
Ferrariis,  96,  195,  201 
Ferrars,  Baron,  137 
Ferre,  257 
Ferrers,  155 
Ferrour,  228 
Feryby,  139 
Fettiplace,  109 
Fifelude,  287 
Filiol,  155 
Finche,  37 
Fish,  153 
Fisher,  144 
Fitch,  232 


XVI. 


INDEX    NOMINUM. 


Fiti-AUn,    $j.    79,    81,  Gardevile    or    Gerard 

vile.    381,   307-303 
Gardiner,   51,    109,    163 
Gardner,    153 
Garnry»,    123,  323,   248 
260,    26011,   2.v- 
3 '3-   349 


'    i 

Fin  Duncan,  24 
Fiti-Krnald.   3; 
Filigrralit 
Fin-John,  2QQ.  297 
Fiii-l.rwis,   54 


Fiti-Otho      or      Gates,  Garnham.  33,  310 


Garnyshe,  280 
Garrad,  336 
Garrod,  329 
Gaston,  15 

,  Gaudy,  181,  237,  350 
Gaunt,  John  of,  204 


104,   27811.,   379 
Fin-Ralph.  4.  34 
Fill-Robert.    15,  361 
Fill-Stephens,  227 
Fiu-Talbol,   296 
Fit»-Thoraa»,  27811. 
Fin-Walter,    133,    164      Gaveston,   257 
Fiti  Water.    Lord,    177  Gavestone.    140 
Fiti-Wautier,    107  Gawdie,  22 

Fiix-William.    188,   205   Gawdy,  16,  90,  228-231, 


Flamvill, 
Floteman,  253 
Foliot,  78 
Foliambe,  91 
Folkard,   113 
Folsham,  336 
Foorth.   124 
Ford,  104.  280 
Forstaft,  34 
Forster,    55,   222 
Forthe,  73,  192,  314 
Fortibus,   25,  30 
Foster,   143,   144,  297 
Foulkes,  263 
Fournicr,   2ig,   320 
Fourthe,  230 
Foxe,  37 
Foxlee,  326 
Framlingham,    192 
Frana,  21 
France,    King    of,    80, 

r-3'8 

Francis,   159 
Franke,  68 
Franklin,  203 
Frarkes,   36 
Fraser,  30,   33,   34 
Fray,   139 
F  reman,   no 
French,  321 
Freney,  94 
Frere,       38,    265,    266, 


'73, 


3",    3«3 


3'° 

3^0,    342 
Freston,  313,  333-335*., 

337 
Freton,  169 

Frewar,  31 
Frewin,   14 
Frobisher,    176 
Froissart,  88 
Froxmore,  240 
Fulcard,  318 
Fulchard,  273 
Fulcher,  350 
Fuller,  58,  98,  99 
Furcard,   273 
Furneaux,   213,   214 
Futter,  310 
Fynch,   no 
Fynes,  20 
Fynn,  109 
Fysher,  6 

Gael,  Gaell,  163,  173 
Cage,  153,   175,  303 
Gallienus,   117 
Galloway,  Lord  of,  25 
Galyon,   15 


233,    284,    3  "6,    340, 

35" 

Gedding,    147 
Geney,  Gyney,  or  Jen- 

ney.  271,  272 
Gentilman,  340 
Geoffees,    1 53 
Geoffrey,   10,  324 
George,    148 
Gerard,   160,   260 
Gerardeville,   247,  302 
Gerberge,      Gerbridge, 

339,  340 
Gern,  Atle,  36 
Gernon,  97,  160 
Gernun,  333 
Gerold,    107 
Gerrard,  54,  337 
Gibbon,  33 
Gibson,  284,  341,  342 
Gideon,    156 
Giffard,   50,  82,    160 
Gipps,  239 
Gislebert,     Earl,      140, 

'73,     '78,     '94,    208, 

211,  247 
Gisleham,  269 
Gislingham,    268,    269, 

27',  3°5,   3»" 
Gladman,  10 
Glamfield,    156 
Glanfield,   168,   170,  172 
Glanton,   244 
Glanville,   «8,   102,   156, 

156*1. 

Glanville-Richards,    156 
Glascock,  73 
Gleeman,   101 
Glemham,  252,  253,  269 
Gloucester,    Title,    25, 

26,   79,   87,    121,   133, 

140,  151,   155,   180 
Glover,  66,  66«. 
Gobald,  265 
Coda,   101,  234,  286 
Godard,  334,  337 
Godbold,   335 
Goddard,   107 
Goddua,  100 
Godgeva,  338 
Godhous,  326 
God  man,  318 
Godric,  35,  37,  65,  268, 

273 

Godsalf,  207 

Godwin,  3,  10,  40,  46, 
59,  67,  86,  93,  too, 
115,  256,  268,  330 


Golding,  167,  171,  316 

Goldingham,  6*t.,  62 
118,  265,  372,  272*1. 

Goldwcll,  221 

Goldyngham,   272 

Golly,   163 

Golsborough,    163,    171 

(iommyld.    118 

Gonsell,   53 

Gooday,  19,  96,  115 
116,  127,  128 

Gooding,    59,    125,    286 

Goodman,  62,   too,   102 

Goodmund,  44,  62,  67 
94,  125,  126,  268,  288 

Goodrich,  14,  16,  19 
40,  43,  46,  57,  61-63 
96,  loo.  115,  116 
126,  128,  246,  256 
268,  277,  288,  301 
312,  318,  330,  332 

345   . 
Goodwin,     14,    41,    66 

106,     128,     161.    280, 

330 

Goodwyn,   17,  280 
Goolding.  241 
Gordian  III.,  1 17 
Gornay,  24 
Goshawk,    167 
Goshold,  320 
Gosnall,  v.  Gosnold 
Gosnold,  20,  22,  33,  47, 

83-85,     121,     122,     309, 

Gossebek,  1 1 

Goswold,   1 6 

Gotselin,   286 

Gough,  87,  244 

Gournay,  326 

Gowsell,  6 

Graham,  84 

Gratia,  294 

Grauncourt,  218 

Graunison,  3 

Graves,  124 

Gray,  Grave,  261,  263 

Green,  152,  153,  170 
171,  219,  228 

Greene,  265,  273 

Greenwade,  308 

Greenwood,    214 

Gregory,   167 

Grene,   205,   335 

Grentemesnil,   186 

Gresham,  161,  348 

Grey,  78,  90,  174,  180, 
181,  183,  187,  188, 
236,  263,  280,  308, 
320,  321,  328,  346 

Greyndour,    187 

Greystock,    123 

Gripgly,   190 

Grim,    18,    23,    34,    61, 

345 
Grimston,  63,   105,  299, 

300 
Grimwade,      144,      159, 

167,     175,     181,     213, 

2 '4.  347 

Grimwood,    145,   329*1 
Grislinge,  105 
Grove,    109 
Growse,   144 
Grunulf,   217 
Gryce,  112 


Gryme,  305 

Grymston,   63,   98,    105 
Guarin,  234 
Gueldcrland,    Duke   of, 

87 
Guidon,  77 

Guillim,   32371. 
Guisnes,  Earl  of,  294 
Gulafra,   217,   286,    318 
Gulsion,   59 
Gunnere,  62 
Gunion,    112 
Gurdon,  21,  33,  38,  39, 

48,   84 

Gurney,    188 
Gurth,    59,    73,   93,   94, 

=34.   3»4 
Gwerns,  135 
Gybbon,   .  6 
Gyldensleve,  332 
Hackett,  290 
Hackford,  6,  327 
Hadley,   162,  296 
Hagana,   324,   325 
Haggard,    174,   331 
Hagh,  309 
Hagris,  348 
Haines,   52 
Hainond,   51 
Hake,  60 
Halden,   3,    18,  35,   43, 

46,  47,  49,  52>  67,  86, 

120,   125 
Hale,    153 
Hales,   86,   87 
Hall,  153,  273 
Halse,  237 
Halward,  318 
Hamenhale,  97 
Hamilton,  Duke  of,  42, 

61,  too 

Hammond,   117 
Hamond,   24,   76 
Hamott,  153 
Hamner,    195 
Hanold,    153 
Hansard,  51 
Hanyngfeld,    145 
Harbaret,  349 
Harbord,   Lady,  261 
Harbord   al.  Yaxlee,  275 
Harbottle,   299 
Hardecnut,    128 
Hardekin,    10 
Hardel,      Hardell,      53, 

272 

Hardinge,  261 
Hardwin,   57 
Hare,   11,  99,   162,  231, 

276,  340 

Harfie,   Harfye,  320 
Hargreaves,   152 
Harland,  13,  44,  70,  74, 

303 
Harleston,  260 

Harlestone,  74,  252,  269 

Harlow,  71 

Harnengdale,  218 

Harold,  5,  to,  14,  19, 
35,  37,  43,  46,  76,  96, 
102,  106,  107,  119, 
125,  127,  128,  186, 

206,      221,      224,      226, 
2S6     332 

Harpele,    112 
Harrington,  121 


INDEX    NOMINUM. 


xvii. 


Harrison,  342 
Hartismere,  Baron,  315 
Harvey,  231,   297,  303 

329*. 

Harwell,   247 
Harwyn,   177 
Hasset,  108 
Hastings,    28,     31,     53 

77,  78,   87,   121,    135 

147,  204,  237,  327 
Hastyngs,  15,  78 
Hatfield,  253 
Hatley,    265 
Hattele,  326 
Hauboy,   Hauboys,   252 
Hauches,   172 
Hautboys,  37,  60 
Havell,  207 
Havers,  no,  in,  302 
Hawberke,  218 
Hawkins,  323 
Haydon,  245;!. 
Hayward,  300,  308,  310, 

3'8 

Head,   124 
Heath,  337 
Heathcote,  38 
Hederset,  340 
Hedersete,  209 
Hedges,  12 
Heigham,  83,   108,   198, 

202,    215,     281,    303 
Hemenhale,     84,     247, 

252-255«.,     279,    309, 

316,  3i6».,  336,  337, 

Hemgrave,  4 
Heminghale,  316 
Hempstede,   112 
Heneage,  308 
Henniker,   5,   271,   273, 

375,    302,    314,    3«S 

336,  342 

Henniker-Major,    315 
Henry  V.,  65 
Herberd,  350 
Herberd  al.  Yaxley,  349 
Herbert,    82,    142,    154, 

162,  181,  256 
Herbert  al.  Yaxley,  320 
Hereford,  340 
Hereford,     Title,      137, 

»55 

Herlaston,  252 
Herle,  221 
Herling,  4 
Herlyng,   284 
Herman,  96 
Hermesthorp,    160,    169 
Hervart,  332 
Hervey,  n,  43,  44,  91, 

92,  128,  132,  265,  272, 

328*.,  345 

Hethe,  205,  207,  213 
Hetherset,  209,  339 
Heveningham,    236,  287 
Hevenyngham,  236,  269, 

27°,  272,  316 
Heweny,  97 
Hewett,  153 
Hewitt,  Hewytt,  12,  69, 

74 

Heydon,  37,  205,  222 
Heyford,   245 
Heylesden,  326 
Heyth,  214 

Y  I 


Heyton,  279 

Heywarde,  335 

Hickling,  or  Hikelin 
276,  298,  305 

Hide,   205 

Higham,  198,  206,  212 
2J4,  3°3 

Highlow,   1 16 

Highton,   308 

Hiklyng,  235 

Hilary,    10 

Hildyard,  96 

Hiles,  153 

Hill,    47,   83,    142,    153 

Hillersdon,  74 

Hilton,   113 

Hindes,   153 

Hipwell,  34 

Hitcham,  63,  116,  117 
123  174,  175 

Hoadley,  Bp.,  219 

Hobart,  74,  88,  9o«. 
101,  104,  116,  181 
i88».,  192,  212,  225 
245,  261,  271,  272 

276,  313 
Hobartt,    188 
Hobbart,   225 
Hoberd,  269 
Hobert,   269 
Hoddeshagh,  218 
Hodeleston,  218 
Hodelston,   188 
Hodges,    153,    169,    181. 

189 

Hog,   296 
Hoggar,  251 
Holand,    179,    180,   187 
Holbroke,      15,    16,   44, 

59,  67,  68,  70,  92,  94 

118,   119 
Holbrook,  70 
Holgrave,   68 
Holinsted,   I38«. 
Holland,   162 
Holland,  Earl  of,  278 
Hollingshead,    117 
Holme,   5 
Holmes,  41,   195 
Holt,     124,     169,     275. 

293,  3°8 

Homberston,  38,   308 
Honing,  259,   262,  299 
Honningsherth  or  Hor- 

nyngeshierth,    225 
Honorius,     Pope,     117, 

'83 

Honyng,   176 
Hoo,   36,   85,   286,   287, 

294,  326 
Hook,    244 
Hookham,   265 
Hopton,   13,   51,   188 
Homer,   91 
Horngzerths,  225 
Hornings,   321 
Horningsurth,  225*. 
Hornyngeshierth,   326 
Horseld,    253 
Hosden,    53,    128 
Hosdenc,  211 
Houblin,   311 
Houghton,  141,  174 
Hovel,  4,  325,  326,  345- 

347 
Hovell,  325,  345 


Hoverel,  v.  Hovel 
Howard,  37,  38,  41,  54 

79,  91,  106,  116,  133 

142,     151,     165,     191 

195,  263 
Howe,    172,   222 
Howlett,  297 
Howletts,    1 53 
Howman,  290 
Hoxne,  348 
Hubbard,    153,  223 
Hubbards,  225 
Huberd,  269,  317 
Hubert,     10,    296,    324 

344,  348 

Huddescham,  218 
Hudson,   171 
Huggen,   229,  230 
Huggens,  337 
Hugh,   160,   318 
Hugh,  Abbot,   146 
Hugh,  Earl,  18,  14 
Hughes,  8 1 
Hule,    153 

Humfrey,  47,  86,  93 
Humphrey,    19,   24,   76 

77,  86 
Huna,  62 
Hunebot,    93 
Hungerford,   222 
Hunlake,    163,    171 
Hunt,   8 
Hunte,   280 
Hunter,  v.  Vernon 
Huntingdon,  E.  of,  77 

79 

Hunting-field,  50,   134 
Husey,    188 
Husteman,  128 
Hustleton,   91 
Husy,  281 
Hyde,  236,  341 
Hykelyng,   235 
Hyne,  176 
Hynton,  97 
Ilger,    19,    40,    41,    49 

57,    65,    73,    74,    96 

100,     107,    113,     114 

125,  126,  128 
Ille,  149 
Ingald,  340 
Ingellus,  227 
Ingelric,  40 
Inglose,  209 
Ingoldesthorp,   326 
Ingoldsthorpe,  188 
Ingulf,  67 

Insula,  97,   196,   197 
Irby,  316 
Isaac,    126 
Isaachs,    167 
Isaacks,  170 
Ivo,  49 
Jackson,   195 
Jacob,  54,  97,   170,  248 
Jacobs,   171 
James,   124 
Jane,  221 
Janson,  12 
Jaques,  341 
[arnac,  208 
Jarnyngan,  160 
farrold,   153 
Jeffreys,  114 
[eggon,  308,  309 


Jene,  153 

Jener,  229 

Jennens,   I2«. 

Jenney,  6,  36,  69,   152, 

T  272,   33',  34i 

Jennings,    170,    171 

Jenny,  206,  239 

Jenor,  33 

Jermy,    11,    12,    45,   68, 

114,   169,   175,  337 
Jermyn,    65,    108,    in, 

'59,    176,     196,    212, 

275 
Jernegan,  169,  294,  309, 

337 

Jerningham,   237 
obson,  219 
John,   164 
Johnson,   167,    171 
Johnstone,   83 
Jones,     60,     182,     195, 

232,  3'5 
Joy,  228 
Julian,    105 

Juliers,  Marq.   of,    179 
Jurby,  153 
Kattone,  269 
Kebell,   83 
Keble,  284 
Keeble,  51,  170 
Keene,     or    Kene,   290, 

3 '9,  32°,  349 
Keime,   156 
Keldon,   108 
Kellam,  319 
Kellett,    183 
Kelvedon,   108 
Kemingale,  153 
Kemp,    196 
Kempe,   i  <; 
Kene,  v.  Keene 
Kenold,   14 
Kenrick,  96 
Kent,    Title,    179,    180, 

186,   187 
Kenton,   264 
Kenward,   12 
Keppel,  70 
Kerdeston,  327 
Ken",  3°,  3',  33,  34 
Kernson,  228,  232,  239, 

259,  260,  315,  350 
Kersey,  162,  163 
Kelt,  236 
Kettle,   53 
Kettlebarston,   184 
Killigrew,   37,    271,   315 
Killingworth,   138 
Kilmore,   Bp.   of,   198 
Kimberley,   Earl  of,  38 
King,  109,  1 10,  154,  254 
Kinge,  38 
Kinge,    al.    Blondevile, 

Kinglake,   144 
Kingsbury,   153 
Kirby,  62,   159 
Kiriel,  204 
Kirkby,  6,  7,  164 
Sirke,    7 
Sirkeby,  7,  164 
•Cirkman,  52 
Sitchen,  153 
Citson,  237 
Cneller,  323 


xvin. 


INDEX    NOMINUM. 


Knight,   i$i,  314 
Knocke,    153 
K  nolle*.    137 
Knowles,  89 
Knuff.    13 
Knyvet,  245 
Kokrrel,    164 
Kvmbald,   326 

MM*,  254 

Kyrkeby,  164 

Kyrkiby,  164 
Kyslingham    or    Kysel 

ingbury,  160 
Kytson,  243,  303 
Lackyngheth.  27: 
I  afh.im,   160 
I.akinhethe,  68 
Lakynghethe,  346 
Lakynghyth.  272 
Lambe,    41,     98,     104 

toe,   116 
Lambcrd,   $6 
Laropet,     n.    114,   269 

270,  281,  308 
Lancaster,  336,  351 
Lancaster,  Title,  20,  23 

36,  36*.,  79,  88,  155 

180,     186,    204,    209 

3*6,  336 

Lancastre,  252,  253,  269 
I.andaff,    Bp.    347 
Lane,  319 
Lanfranc,     Abp.,     158, 

163 

Langestone,   119 
Langfer,   nc 
Langton,   96,   218 
Larney,   Lord,   294 
Last,    159,  210 
Latham,   347 
Latimer,   30,    122,    152. 

238 

Laundeswan,   214 
Laurence,   112,  195 
I.aurenz,   209,  340 
Lavyle,  308 
I.ayton,    61,    207,    209, 

212,  214 
Lochc,  326 
Lecke,  68 
Lee,  1 16,  123,  205,  212, 

265,  266 
I.eeke,   82 
Lefleda,   76 
Lefquena,  268 
Lefsi,  288 

Lefstan.  Abbot,  268 
Legat,    160 
Leget,  1 60,  169,  170 
I.egh,   25,  26 
Le  Gros,  24 
Leicester,    E.     of,    78, 

117,    134,   232,   323 
Leman,   185,  232 
Lemon,    154 
Len,  94,  112 
Lennard,    134 
Lenne,  26,  94 
Leoflcda,    n,    127 
Leofric,   115,  127 
Leofsi,  10 
Leofson,    100 
Leofrtan,    14,    40,   115, 

I2S 

Leonard,  81,  82,  350 
Leostan,    toi 


Leovestan,   127 

Lestan,   211,   268,   318 

L'Estrange,   205-207 

Letton,    15 

Leu,  15 

Leunc,  10,  46,  93,  101 

373.,  3'».  3'3 

Leurin,  03 

Leuseda,  286 

Leustan,   173 

Leveney,  102 

Leverich,  19,  40,  62 
96,  106,  115,  116,  126 
264,  268,  274,  324 

Leversegge,  244 

I.evesson,   40 

Levestan,   127 

Leveston,   106 

Levett,    1 1 5 

Leveva,   120,   163,    164 

Levewthorpc,  88 

Lewes,  28 

Lcwgore,   31,   32 

I.cwm,     102,    115,    120, 

122,       221,      224,      246, 

252,   256,   257,   264, 

344,  345 

Lewinbcnne,   273 
Lewkenore,   277,   278 
I.ewric,  96 
Leybourne,  78 
Leyghe  or  Legh,  25 
Leyham,   183,    190,   201 
Lichfield  and  Coventry, 

Bp.  of,  5,  96,  218 
Lignac,  89 
I.ihtwin,    107 
Liraesi,    261,    288,    307, 

309 
Lincoln,    Bp.    of,    223, 

259 

Lincoln,  E.  of,  80,  328 
Lisle,  Title,  232,  328 
Littele,  311 
Livermore,   170 
Llewelyn,    Prince,    135 
Lloyd,  169 
Locke,  (i'/«. 
Lodge,   170 
Lodger,    171 
Lodne,   286,  287 
I.oftus,    263 
Lomberde,  56 
London,  261 
London,    Bp.    of,    210, 

227,   308 
Long,    177 
Longe,  247,  320 
Lotharing,   D.   of,  257 
I.othier,    Duke   of,   307 
I.oudham,    108 
Lovainc     or     Loveyne, 

'36,   "39.  257,  3°7 
Lovel,    134,   280 
Lovelace,  133 
Lovell,  Lord,  4,  28,  87. 

1 88 

Leverage,  26 
Loveyne,  v.  Lovainc 
Lovyll,  ii 
Lowdham,  83,  84,   108, 

3°4,  3°5 

Lowe,  247 

Lowthe,    242 

L'Straunge,  r.  L'Es- 
trange 


Lucas,  296 
I.udam,  197 

I.  ul  PCM  1.     171 
Lulpeck,    167 
Lumley,  89 
Lunden,  19 
Lure,    115 
Lusignan,  77 
Lustwin,  49,  76 
Lye,  101 
Lynch,  341 
Lynge,  269 
Lynn,   in 

Lynne  or  Zymme,  281 
Lynnes,    279 
Lysle,  197 
Lytton,   74 
McPheadris,  8 
Magnaville,  3,    18,  21, 

35.  43,  47,  49,  5*. 
53,  67,  86,  107,  120, 
125 

Major,  5,  302,  314,  315 

Malet,  3,  iS,  21.  23.  24, 
43,  46,  47.  49,  53.  50. 
67,  76,  86,  93,  100, 
102,  106,  107,  113, 
126,  127,  217,  226, 
229,  234,  246,  247, 
252,  256,  257,  261, 
264,  267,  273,  286, 
288,  294,  206,  298, 
3«',  307,  308,  31  . 
316-318,  324,  330,  332, 
338.  344.  345,  348 

Malmesbury,  William 
of,  15 

Maltby,  223 

Malteby,  298 

Malyn,  290 

Mandeville,  24,  25,   160 

Mann,  29 

Manners,   Si 

Mannings,   153 

Manny,  259,  272 

Manson,  40,  115,  128 

Mantly,    236 

Manvers,     Earl,      123, 

I24K. 

Manwood,  20 
Mapletoft,    174 
March,  Earl  of,  180 
Marculf,   217 
Marney,  309 
Marny,  4,  326 
Marriot,    306 
Marryott,  51,  152 
Marshall,  321.,  289 
Marsham,  310 
Marshc.    145 
Martell,  169 
Marter,  51 

Martin,  84,  168,  170, 
171,  213,  244,  250*., 

327 
Martlcsham,  36,  37,  59, 

60 

Martyn,    182 
Marvel,  90 
Mason,  263 
Massynge,   269 
Matthew,   254 
Matthews,  320". 
Maundevill,  277,  278 
Maunser,   168 


Maurice,  159,  174 
Mauveisyn,  320 
Mauvesyn,   148 
Maverley,   248 
Maximillian,    Erap.,    29 
May,  348 

Mayhew,    170,    172,    212 
Maynard,  260,  331 
Mayster,    1 10 
Mcadowe,  124 
Meadows,  52,  122-1 24*1., 

'43 

Meautys,   299 
Medewe,  30 
Medowe,    123 
Mclksop,  25 
Mclles,    274,   282 
Mellish,   38 
Mells,  274 
Melton,  240 
Menleva,   273 
Merious,   204 
Mcrk,  1 86 
Morton,    71 
Metcalfe,    176 
Messynar,  269 
Metham,  7 
Methwold,  305 
Mewtas,  238 
Meyth,  281 

Middlesex,  Duke  of,  41 
Middleton,  69,  221 
Miles,  38 
Milford,  169 
Milicie,  275 
Milksop,  148 
Miller,  52,  170 
Minter,  109,  no,  123 
Mirnno,  316 
Misterton,  4,  270 
M  it  ford,  Baron,  88 
Modgeva,  101,  338,  339 
Monchensy,  346 
Monson,  13,  91 
Montacute,  179". 
Montagu,  Title,  37,  188 
Montalt,  E.  of,  142 
Montchensy,  194,  i<)4«. 
Monte  Canesio,  344 
Monte  Canise,  194 
Montfichet,  25 
Montford,  44 
Montford     or     Munde- 

ford,  228 
Montfort,  to,  18,  24,  62, 

67,   78,   94,    "5.    '25. 

126,    247,    252,    268, 

288,  289,  345 
Montgomery,  4,  15 
Monyns,  in 
Moor,  8 

Moore,  175,  184,  33' 
Moray,  Earl  of,  24 
Morcar,  115 
Mordaunt,  Lord,  81 
MoreRrim,  115,  125 
Morell,  165 
Moretaigne,  E.   of,   15, 

53,  96,  loo,  106,  226 
Moreyn,  340 
Morieus,  204 
Morieux,  147,  204-206 
Morines,  202 


INDEX    NOMINUM. 


xix. 


Morley,  31,  87,  121,  236, 

252-  253 

Morrice,  I2W. 

Morrington,  171 

Morrison,   8,   8«. 

Morse,  85,  306 

Mortaign,  E.  of,  140, 
211 

Mortain,   v.  Moretaigne 

Mortein,  14 

Mortimer,  24,  27,  83, 
'47,  155,  180,  186 

Mortuo  Mari,  106 

Mortymer,   188 

Moseley,   347 

Moswell,  38 

Mothely,  116 

Mott,  352 

Moubray,  97 

Mountney,  239,  241 

Mowbray,  53,  118,  179 

Mufla,  18 

Mulley,  329 

Mundcford,   214". 

Mundeville,  20 

Muriel,  252,  269 

Murray,  in 

Muryens,  v.  Morieux 

Musgrave,  141 

Musgrove,  190,  193 

Muskett,  225«.,  345 

Mylde,  165 

Myms,   153 

Mystirtone,    269 

Xanton,   152,  213 

Napoleon,  Emp.,   142 

Nassau,  42,  100,  105 

Xaunton,  51,  84,  86. 
151,  154.  185,  326 

Navarre,  King  of,  89 

Neel,  247 

Nemours,  57,  126 

Nence,  I38«. 

Nevell,  152 

Nevil,  238 

Nevill,  79,  81-83,  121, 
161,  198 

Neville,   187 

Nevyll,  122 

Neweman,  44,  67,  119 

Newman,  144,  171,  203 

Newton,  134,  228-230 

Nicholson,  i38». 

Nigel,  14,  96 

Nightingale,  182,  329 

Nix,  263,  306 

Noah,  62 

Noers,  159 

Noon,  65,  66,  73 

Noone,  66,  94 

Norbury,  E.  of,  84 

Noreys,  26 

Norfolk,  Title,  40. 
4i»-,  43.  53,  54,  61, 
7',  74,  77,  79,  86>  IO4, 
106,  116-118,  142,  151, 
161,  178,  222,  243, 
247,  253,  272-  279,  281 

Norman,  14,  19,  40,  53, 
57,  61,  62,  73,  74,  96, 
100,  102,  106,  115,  116, 
125-129,  153,  204,  349, 
35° 


Normandy,    D.    of,    14, 

104,  257 
Norris,  20 
Norriss,  168,  172 
North,  7,  141 
Northampton,  Title,  81, 

'37,  «55,  237 
Northstrete,  94,   112 
Northumberland,  E.  of, 

27 
Norton,  7,  16,  197,  274, 

275,  309 

Norwich,  15,  151,  274 
Norwich,   Bp.    of,    221- 

223,  227,  241,242,273, 

306,  308,  326 
Norwolde,  292 
Nottingham,  47 
Nottingham,  E.  of,  179 
Numford,  153 
Nune,  342 
Nunn,  213,  310 
Nunnford,  153 
Nussey,  341 
Nykke  or  Nix.  222 
Oburville  or  Aubervillc, 

120.   155,  211 
Offord,  189 
Offwood,  153 
Ofton,  no 
Okefield,   196 
Oldcastle,  218 
Olyner,  32 
Olyver,  121 
Onslow,  322 
Ook,  252 
Opton,  97 
Ordric,  14 
Orgar,  101 
Orger,  332 
Ormond  and  Wiltshire, 

E.  of,  191 
Ormsby,  84 
Orton,  108 
Orwell,    Title,    64,    70, 

300 

Osbert,  14,  128 
Osborn,   133 
Osborne,  350 
Osemund,  247 
Osfert,  57,  128 
Osgood,  116 
Osketel,   115 
Oslac,  59 
Osulf,  115,  330 
Oswi,  1 1 
Othenius,  348 
Otteley,  83 
Otti,  128 
Ovethel,  34? 
Owder.  or  Ouband,  101 
Oxenden,  210 
Oxford,  E.  of,  4,  6,  20, 

28,   48*.,   54,   71,   8l> 

i32.    '33,    '33«->    "35, 

151,  207,  296 
Paiesti,  114 
Paine,  159 
Pakenham,    15 
Pakington,  69,  72 
Palmer,   209,   251 
Paludel,  44 
Parish,  352 


Parke,  68 

Parker,  74,99,  102,  118, 

142,  169,  213,  229,236, 

281,  287,  302,  342 
Parr,  136,  137 
Parson,     Parsons,     168, 

170,  172 
Partrich,          Partriche, 

Partrych,  55,  56 
Partrych,  55,  56 
Partridge,  163,  168,  171 
Parys,  31 
Pascall,  192 
Paston,  63,  133,  253,  319 
Pateshull,  211 
Patrick,  154 
Patshull  or  Patteshall,  3 
Pattison,  52 
Payne,  219 
Paynell,  77 
Pearce,  342 
Peason,   168 
Peche,  3,  47,  184,  194*., 

297 

Peck,  171 
Peeck,  167 
Pegeys,  261 
Peigham,  306 
Pelham,  82 
Pells,  47 
Pelyp,  269 
Pembroke,  E.  of,  78,  79, 

82,  181 
Penley,  36 
Penning,  231 
Pennyng,  112 
Percy,  164,  201,  221 
Perers,  86,  30571. 
Pereson,  85 
Person,  33 
Pertrede,  348 
Pertrych,  191 
Perye,  207 
Petts,  51 
Petytt,  41 
Peverel,  33,  67,  97 
Peverell,    23,    173,    176, 

2ii,  217,  218,  330 
Peyton,  123,  188 
Phelip,  27,  28,  184,  197, 

252 

Philip,  252 
Philipp,  299 
Philips,  200 
Phillipson,  59,  60 
Phin,  208 
Phcenix,  315 
Phylyp,  272,  316 
Pierpont,  20 
Piert,  112 
Pigott,  158,  159 
Pilbrowe,  66 
Pilkyngton,  65 
Pincerna,  227,  333 
Pincham,  167 
Pinel,  40,  159 
Pinkeney,  135 
Pinstan,  288 
Piper,  92 

Pirnho  or  Pyrrow,  19 
Pirpount,  278 
Pistor,  223,  341 
Pitman,  138*. 


Pitt,  5,  223 

Pius  II.,  Pope,  187 

Plantagenet,  20,  25,  179, 

1 80,  i 86,  187,  307 
Playford,  10,  86,  97 
Plays,   Plaiz,    149,    150, 

'54 

Playters,  228 
Pleijs,  270,  271 
Plumstead,  321 
Pocklington,    152,     154, 

213 

Poderych,  319 

Poictou,  19,  20,  23,  32, 
35,  37,  46,  47,  49,  5°, 
57,  59,  7°,  71,  73,  7&, 
93,  107,  204,  332 

Pole,  60,  80,  97,  184, 
197,  198,202,218,222, 
247,  252,  253,  255,  258, 
259,  279,307,  3°8,  3l6, 
327,  337,  346,  347,  35' 

Poley,  175,  176,  200, 
269,  281,  302,  303 

Pollard,  326 

Pomfret,  265 

Pond,  160 

Pontoise,  Abbess  of,  82 

Ponynge,  So 

Poole,  84,  144 

Pope,  45 

Port,  217 

Porter,  57,  75,  114,  209 

Potkins,  v.  Potton 

Pottere,  37,  60 

Potton  or  Potkins,  97 

Poulett,  245 

Power,  160,  168 

Powis,     163,     168,     180, 

181,  183,  187,  188 
Powle,  121 
Poynings,  27 

Pratt,  41,  90,  in,  112 

Prattyman,  334 

Pratyman,  247,  251,  310 

Preston,  197,  230,  317 

Preto,  105 

Pretty,  99,  263 

Prettyman,  331 

Prety,  229 

Pretyman,  5,  8,  13,  17, 
42,  44,  60,  61,  64,  66, 
70,  100,  101,  103,  117, 

222-225«.,       229,      247, 

248, 251, 265,  308,310, 
329 

Price,  153 
Prichet,   191 
Prideaux,  41 
Prime,  232 
Proctor,  123 
Pryce,  153 
Prye,  153 
Pryme,  323 
Pryse,  153 
Pulham,  349 
Punchard,  55 
Purcell,  21 
Purpet,  74,  74*.,   113 
Purrye,  6 
Pygot,  165 
Pykarell,  152 
Pyke,  205 


\\ 


INDEX    NOMINUM. 


Pykering,  1:2 
Pv.nel,  348 
Pyrye,  272,  316 
Pyiale.  a$j 
Quendeboef,  282 
Quengeva,  73,  74,  113. 

128 

Quinion,  86,  167,  171 
Qumtrill,  172 
Radcliffe,  177 
Radwell,  15711. 
Raleigh,  89,  221 
Ralph,  5,  10,  19,  23,  24, 

40,41,47,94,  "07,  108, 

120,  288 
Ralph,   Earl,   217,   246, 

267,  268,  277,  288,  301, 

3".  330,  33*.  345 
Rampoile,  326 
Ramsey,  183 
Rand,  167,  171 
Randal,  162 
Randall,  329". 
Randolph,  210 
Rant,  305 
Ranulf,   19,  40,  49,  57, 

65>    73,    74,    96,    I00> 

113,  114,  125,  126,  128 
Raper,  30,  33,  34 
Rash,  342 
Ratcliffe,  205 
Raven,  106,  127,  288 
Raymond,  125 
Raynberd,  329 
Rayner,  319 
Read,  306 

Reason,  168.  170,  171 
Rebow,  84,  8; 
Reed,  168,  169 
Reedisham,  86 
Reeve,    157,    181,    189, 

'93,23 '.232,  322,323, 

33'-  335 
Regifer,  127 
Reilly,  329 
Rcmshales,  283 
Rendelysham,  34 
Rppynghale,  26 
Reresby,  91 
Restwold,  260 
Reve,  231,  240,  284,  285, 

322,  350 

Revett,  232,  240,  300 
ReViers,  25 
Reyce,  63 
Reydon,  190-191 
Reynardson,  12 
Reynbald,  326 
Reynold,  21 
Reynolds,  54,  265,  320 
Rheims,  47,  61,  77,  107, 

120 

Rich,  91,  no 
Richard,  50,  140,  156, 
»73,  «78,  194,  204,  208, 
211,  247,344,345 
Richester,  233 
Richmond,  12,  284 
Ridley-Colborne,  38 
Riffley,  183 
Rinpulf.  267 
Risbie,  v.  Kisby 
Risby,  206-207,  299 


Risheton,  no 

Rivers,  123 

Rivett,     137-139,      M3. 

144,  "S3,  23 
Rivftt-Carnac,  144 
Kix.  321 
Rixe,  341 
Robert,  47,  86,  125,  160, 

211 

Robertes,  214 
Roberts,  134,  214 
Robinson,   30,   82,    159, 

167,  170,  210 
Rochester,  228-230,  237 
Rochester,  Bp.  of,  1 1 1 
Rochford,  E.  of,  42,  100 
Roes,  al.  Roose,  17 
Roger,   23,   40,   47,   49. 

50 

Rokermi,  247 
Rokes,  6 
Rokewode,      101,      104, 

148,  212,  271,  272 
Rokewood,  207,  322 
Rokwode,  316 
Rolf,  74 
Rolfe,  181,  212 
Rolleston,  229 
Rolph,  8 
Rookwood,    244-245".. 

309 

Roos,  1 88 

Ros,  Lord  de,  164,  188 
Rose,  199,  254 
Rosse,  206 
Rossington,  in 
Round-Turner,  303 
Rous  or  Rouse,   21,  22, 

29,  34,  5'.  S2,  83,  >33> 

175,  260 

Rowley,  61,  74,  75 
Roydon,  282,  283 
Roylli,  178 
Kudhind.  153,  154 
Rudlande,  al.  Mathewe. 

.254 

Rufus  or  Le  Rus,  32,  50 
Rule,  97 
Rullc.  97 

Rus,  Le,  r.  Rufus 
Rush,  313 
Rushbrooke,  205 
Rushe,  92 
Russel,  41". 
Russell,  41,  42,  53,  114 
Russhe,  16,  17,  231 
Rust,  124 
Ruthyn,  236,  280 
Rutland,  E.  of,  81 
Rychars,  142 
Rydware,  184 
Rykedon,  139 
Ryvere,  326 
Sachs,  217 
Sackvile,  41,  Si 
Sackvillc,  226-228,  231 

252,  274,  298,  332,  333 
Safford,  159 
Sage,  154 
St.  Andrew,  71 
St.  Audoin,  24 
St.  Clair,  338,  339 


St.   Edmund,  324,  326, 

345 
St.  Etheldreda,  it,  126, 

128 

St.  John,  150 
St.  Martin,  148 
St.  Philebert,  149,   150, 

'54 

Salchevilla,  226 
Salcovilla,  v.  Sackville 
Sale,  187 
Salisbury,      Title,     84, 

156,  179*1.,  '8o>   '87 
Salkevilla,  226 
Salic,  197 
Salman,   11 
Salmon,  221 
Salomon,  94 
Salter,  139,  154 
Salys,  55 
Sampson,  11,  15,61,70, 

88,  89,92,  94,  140-142, 

145,     '46,     '48,     181, 

182,  195,  272,  340 
Sampson,    Abbot,    173, 

201,  292,  339 
Sands,  238 
Sandwich,  265 
Saumarez,  16,  69,  70,  72 
Savigni,  217,  330 
Saxa,  107 
Saxer,  104 
Saxwin,  247 
Say,  88,  236,  269 
Saye,  21 4*1. 
Sayre,  310 
Scales,  279,  325 
Scape,  1 60 
Schepherd,  191 
Schoche,  348 
Scoos,  326 
Scot,  4,  172,  326 
Scott,  66,  66».,  309 
Scotte,  28 
Scratton,  206 
Scroope,  327 
Scrope,  28,  184,  197 
Scroppe,  1 88 
Scutet,  234 
Seaker,  168 
Seaman,  282 
Seeker,   171 
Seckford,  6-10,    17,   36, 

43,  7',  72,  74,  89,  92, 

99-  263,  271 
Sedley,  222 
Sefeld,  218 
Sekford,  26 
Selley,  210 
Selling.  27 
Sengleton,  316 
Scntlowe,  284 
Senyele,  281 
Scrcman,  115 
Sergeant,  298 
Sevcrus,  117 
Sevin,   127 
Seward,   115 
Sewell,  349,  35° 
Sewin,  127 
Sexteyn,  281 
Shardelowe,  50 
Shardlowe,  102 


Sharpe,  152 

Shaw,  12,  13,  44,  bo 

Shawe,  60 

Shedden,   134 

Sheffield,  Lord,  237 

Shelton,     4,     50,     223, 

279,  3<>9,  329,  329"- 
Shene,   259". 
Shepherds,  191 
Sheppard,      232,      233, 

265,  323,  34' 
Sherman,  308,  313,  321, 

349-35' 

Sherrington,  263 
Shipbroke,    E.    of,    64, 

7°.  3°o 

Shirbourn.  207 
Shirley,  75 
Shotesham,  no 
Shrewsbury,  E.  of,  15 
Shuldeham,  279 
Shurland,  282,  283 
Shymplygford,  61 
Sicklemore,  109,  no 
Sidney,   114 
Sier,   144 
Simncl,  28 
Sinclair,  55 
Sincleberg,  50 
Singleton,  272,  322 
Singulton,  240 
Siric,   14,  46,  217,  301, 

3'7 

Siward,  288 
Siwold,  62 
Skakilthorp,  37,  60 
Skeryere,  191 
Skipper,   114 
Slammer,    154 
Slater,  84 

Slavens,  Slevens,  30 
Smart,  63,  290 
Smith,    139,    163,    172, 

195,  206,  319,  320 
Smithier,  59 
Smyth,     109,    152,    156, 

165,   195,  165,  320 
Smythe,  308,  310 
Snellinp,    170,    172 
Snellynge.   214 
Soame,    113,    231,    183, 

322,  331 
Somery,   149 
Sorches,  267 
Southampton,     E.     of, 

'36 
Southwell.      182,      237, 

294,    348 
Sparke,   195 
Sparowe,    109 
Sparrow,  121,  206,  235 
Sparrowe,    157 
Sparrows,   153 
Spells,    167,    168 
Spelman,   137 
Spencer,   180,  228,  239, 

325,  326 
Spenser,   244 
Spice,  97 
Spicer,    104 
Spilman,  229 
Spineto,  77 
Spiruk,  324,  325 
Spirwic,  208 


INDEX    NOMINUM. 


xxi. 


Sponer,  167 
Spretman,   14 
Spring,   145,   177,  212 
Springe,    177 
Sprot,  115 
Sprott,   79 
Spryng,    177 
Spurdens,   195 
Stafford,    28,    81,     180, 

258,  280 
Stafford,      Title,      140, 

180,  231,  258 
Stalon,  no 
Stamford,   241 
Stanhope,   37,    177,    192 
Stanley,  36,  38 
Stanmar,   57,  61,    115 
Stannard,   3,   267,   312 
Stapleton,  51,   149,    150 
Starling,    185 
Staunton,     197,     I97«., 

2«3 

Stauntone,   253 
Staverton,   104,  253 
Stebbing,   59,   290 
Stede,   161 
Steele,  329 
Steresacre,  63 
Stevens,  30 
Steyning,    6,    71 
Stick-Stack,    115,    116 
Stigand,   217,   226,   234, 

286,     288,     298,    301, 

307,  338 

Stinson,  310 

Stoddard,  99 

Stokes,  328,  349 

Stonham,  244,  245 

Stonor,  188 

Stopford,   210 

Stowc  Market.  247 

Stradbrokc,   E.   of,   260 

Stranghowe,    192 

Stratton,  6,   61,   260 

Strclley,    260 

Strong,  303 

Strutt,  166,  212 

Stubbard,    267 

Stubbin,    170,    171 

Styles,  48 

Suartric,   256 

Sufneld,   221 

Suffolk,  Title,  15,  20, 
22,  29,  38,  59,  91, 
102,  149,  '56>  l8' 
184,  187,  191,  197 

198,      202,       215,      222 
23°,      247,       251,      253- 
255.  257-259'   262,  279 

289,    307.    3°8,    3«6 

3-7,    336>    337.    346 

347 

Suivold,    14 
Sulliard,    243 
Sulyard,    63,    97,     105 

259,   260,   263,   337 
Suncman,   40 
Surrey,     Title,    6,    71 

179,  i 80,  242 
Sussex,   E.   of,   81,   177 

237 
Sutton,     108,    150,    151 

«9',   223 
Suyllard,   213 
Swain,    115 
Swatton,    139 


Swathyngg,  286 
Sweting,  40 
Swetman,  19,  115 
Swillington,      Swillyng- 

ton,    19 

Swinford,    i6ow. 
Swnesford,  244 
Swynford,  244,  274 
Sydney,  89,  322 
Syer,  144 
Symond,  66 
Symonds,  41,  i3S«. 
Tacon,  342 
Talbot,   296 
Taleword,  208 
Talmach,   161 
Talmash,    184 
Tancred,   204 
Tankerville,  E.  of,   180 
Tasborough,   314 
Tatton,  82 
Taylor,  61,  223,  329 
Temple,   82 
Tendale,    228 
Tendryng,    272 
Tengaine  or  Dengaine, 

229 

Tennant,    182 
Tepekin,    120 
Tey,   13 
Teye,  n 

Th'anet,  E.   of,   134 
Theobald,  50 
Theodric,    127 
Thetford,    Bp.    of,    234 

286,  348,  351 
Thirkyll,   276 
Thistleden,   21 
Thoka,   19 
Thomlinson,  69 
Thompson,  8,  38,  55 
Thonylow,  124 
Thorley,    133 
Thornicroft,  82 
Thorold,  23,  96 
Thorp,    196,    251,    264 

274,  3J5,  340 
Thorpe,    176,   227,    251 

258,   259 

Thorrowgood,   182 
Thou,  155 
Thurbarne,   251 
Thuri,    101 
Thurlow,   153.  336 
Thurstan,   128,   217 
Thurston,  41,   275,  330 
Thwaites,    161 
Tibitot,    194 
Tiffin,   in 
Tilney,   133,    192 
Timperley,      101,      168 

169,    i69«.,    213 
Tindalc,  228 
Tiptoft,    187,    1 88 
Tirell,    245,    272,   316 
Tirrell,   254,   337 
Toakcley,   41 
Tokingt'on,   339 
Toler,    84 
Tolle,  271 
Tolk-mache,  69,  83,  90 

162 
Tomlinc,  8,   13,  42,  60 

61,    64,    66,    70,    100 

223,  224 
Tompson,  56 


Tong,    no 
Tonyson,  172 
Toopp,    112 
Topesfield,  282 
Topi,    126 
Toppesfield,    270 
Toppisfield,   270 
Torrington,   E.    of,    162 
Totingtone,   292 
Tottie,   73 
Tottington,  221 
Touchet,    54 
Tourlaville,  96 
Tower,   224 
Towneshend,  161 
Townshend,     162,    209, 

294 

Traverse,   306 
Trayvell,   228 
Tree,  55 
Trussel,   149 
Tuddenham,   3,   4,  4«., 

47 

Tudcham,  346 
Tudenham,      59,      108, 

214,   279,   309 
Tudor,   266 
Tufton,    134 
Turbin,   106,  227 
Turbot,   3 
Turchetel,  307,  308 
Turchil,   93,   94 
Turlaville,  40,   106,   127 
Turneford,  204 
Turner,     12,     92,     110 

168,     171,     185,     232, 

238,    3°3 

Tumour,  71,  no,  213 

Turpyn,    231 

Turzy,    164 

Tustor,  153 

Twait,    71 

Tweed,    170 

Twinstedc,   27271. 

Twyne,   158 

Tyc,   47,   239 

Tymm,   328 

Tyndalc,   228 

Tyndall,   108 

Tyrcll,  4.  122,  137,  143 
154,     202,     244,     247- 
248,     250,     251,     253. 
254,      265,      279-281 
296,  302,  313,  349 

Tyrrcl,  219,  239,  314 

Tyrrell,    212,    222,    253 
'254,    272,    273,   299 

Ufford,     15,     20,     20». 

37.    5°>    ?9,    6°>    '32 

149,     187,     215,     235 

257,     258,    305,    307 

307«.,  336 
Ulfkctcl,   Earl,  292 
Ulfkcttle,    102 
Ultwin,    67 
L'lmar,    3,    10,    21,    125 

234,  268,  312 
Ulric,   53 
Ulrich,   14,  53,  62,  106 

127,  128,  312 
Ulseby,   97 
Ulster,  E.  of,  20 
Uluric,  14,  23,  32,   115 

125,     164,     208,     318; 

3-4,  338 


Ulveva,  too,  226,  252, 
264,  267,  273,  288, 
298.  3°>,  3°7.  3°8, 
3'2,  3'3,  3'7»  332 

Ulviet,   5,    10,  93 

Ulward,   40,   57,  273 

Ulwin,  14,  18,  23,  46, 
106,  no,  132,  267, 
274,  344 

Upcher,    143 

Urban  VI.,  Pope,  326 

Utler,    144 

Valence,    78 

Vallibus,   213 

Valoignes,  324 

Valoines,    37 

Vanneck,   134 

Varennes,    18 

Vaughan,  308 

Vaulx,  Lord,  205 

Vaux,  Lord,  82 

Venn,  248,  254 

Verdon,  26,  35,  36,  65, 
66,  73,  236,  274 

Verdun,  35,  36,  36*. 

Vere,  6,  20,  48,  54,  7', 
'32,  '33,  '5',  267, 
268,  273,  296,  312, 
3'8,  338 

Vernon,   13,  63,  64,  70, 

74,   3°° 

Vernon,  al.  Hunter,  6 
Vesey,  83,  161,  166,  212 
Vince,  154 
Visdelieu,   65,   73,    104, 

213,  244 
Wachesham,  35,  36,  94, 

112,       173,      208-210, 

339,  340,  343 
Waddelovc,    156 
Wade,   139 
Wafer,  104 
Wake,    179,   212 
Wakeryngg,  221 
Waldegrave,      72,      87, 

i74,     '75-     '77,     l84, 
191,     194,    197,    205, 

212,  309 

Walden,  89 

Waldingfield,   148 

Waleran,    164 

Waleys,   1 10 

Walker,    82,   342 

Walkfare,  204 

Wallace,    168,    171,   210 

Walle,   22 

Waller,  41,  4iw.,  105, 
196 

Wallscourt,   Lord,   265 

Walpole,  218,  221 

Walsokyn,   112 

Walter,  77,  120,  122, 
135,  221,  226,  234, 
252,  256,  318,  324, 

333 

Walton,    151 
Wankeleyn,  263 
Wanton,  221,   228 
Warberton,  285 
Warcope,    137 
Ward,   163,   172,  290 
Warde,   163,   190,  349 
Warenna,   19,   277 
Warner,    54,    142,    228, 

229,  233 
Warner,   276,    290,   303 


XX  U. 


INDEX    NOMINUM. 


Warren    or    Warrcner. 

66.  73.  74,  177-  3o6 
Warren  and  Surrey,  K 

of.  280 
Warwick.      Title.      79. 

ist,      140,       178-180. 

187.  181,  307 
Wascoyl.  34 
Washington,  3:7 
Watrly.  290 
Waterman,  154 
Waters,   60 
Watkins,  260 
Wauon,    41 
Wauncey,  346 
Way.  oo 
Wayland.  271 
Wa>te,  340 
Weaver,   137 
Webb.  5,  193 
Weedon.   341 
Wrever,  87,  88*. 
Welch,  351 
Weldon,    102 
Well,    in 
Welle,  326 
Wellston.    no 
Wentworth,     48*1  .      54. 

156,     157,     176,     if 

222,     236,     28l 

Wenyeve,   141,   143 
Werk,  276 
Wery.  272,  316 
Wescomb,    138* 
West.  36,   in.  245 
Westerfield,    108 
Western.    75 
Westhorpc.   325 
Westle,   269 
Westmoreland,    E.     of. 

79.   8«,    »24 
Weston,    179 
Westwood,   232.   331 
Weyland,    3,    32,    120, 

121,     278 

Wcylaund.   245,   35' 
Weylond,  351 
Whcatley,   133 
Whclnetham.    148 
Whetyngham,  281 
Whit,   119 
Whita,  62 


White.    16,   21,   57,  68, 

loi,   171,  261 
Whitrhcad.  60 
Whitford.   272 
Whiting.    171.   209 
Whitte,  240 
Whittington.  6 
Wirkens.    116 
Wido,    uS 
Wihtgar,    14 
Wihtmar,    61,  06,   106, 

115,   116,   127,    128 
Wihtric,    101,   102,   115 

i 28,  129 
\Vilkin.   168 
Wilkins,    172 
Wilkinson.   8.    172,   34: 
Willesham.   145 
Williams.  20,  123 
Willis,   295 
William,    100,   106 
\Villi-ham.    145 
Willoughby.   118,  327 
Willows,   262 
Wilmot,  238,  323 
Wilsher.   275 
Wilshire,  29 
Wilson,    no,   167,  210, 

232,     245,     247.     272 

273.     275,     292,     292rt. 

297,  343 
Wiltshire,     E.     of,    191, 

19- 

Winchestcr,   281,   282 

Winchester,  Bp.  of,  219 

Winchester,  E.  of,  78 

Winde,    171 

Windham,   340 

Windsor,    dc,    135 

Wingfeildc,  So 

Wingfirld,  6,  12.  13,  20. 
28,  29,  37,  44,  48. 
48».,  53,  54,  56,  60, 
63,  66,  71,  74,  84, 
105,  113,  151,  181, 
182,  228,  229,  253, 

207.   333 
\\  innevc,    141 
Winslow.  266 
Winton,  221 
Wintour,  54 
Wirmegay,  27 


man,  74,  219,  229, 
230,     261,    263,    270, 

313.    3«4.    3»7,    35' 
\\Vgar,  204,  208 
\\  i-tonc  or  Wiston,   136 
\\"ithepolc,  89,  176,   177 
Withcrton,   175 
Withipole,   89,  90,   219 

238 

Withypolc,   89 
Withypool,   37 
Witton,  342 
Wodderspoon,  235 
Wodehouse,  4,  38,  209, 

3°5-  3°9,  335-  33° 
Woderowc,    247 
Wolfe,   247,   297 
Wolferston,  Wolvcrston, 

36-38,  97,  160,  169 
VVolfcrton,    191 
Wolfrcston,   298 
Wolfstan,   Earl,   291 
Wolscy,  40,  43,  61,  70, 

74,    106,   304 
Wolvar,   1 26 
Wolvcrston,  v.  Wolfer- 
ston 
Wood,    <;.    8,    58,    195, 

200,  210,  340 
WTood,   al.   Webb,   5 
Woode,   302 
Woodhall.  319 
Woodham.    121 
Woodhousc,   245,   276 
Woodrow.  352 
Wnodstock,     140,     155, 

179,  1 86,  187 
Woodville.   227 
Woolbald,    127 
Woolfcr,  96,   115,   127 
Woollett,    loo 
Woolmar,   115,   128,  344 
Woolmcr,   40,   101 
Woolnough,  3,   115,  140 
Woolrich,  127,  256 
Woolver,   100 
Woolvey,    14 
Woolward,    14 
Wooton,  109 
Wootton,  271,  276 
Worcester,     E.     of,     4 

79,  121,  187,  188,  238 


;•.   Wirrne- 


Worth,   153 
\\'orthy,    139 
Wortley,    303 
Wotton,   266 
Wratislaw,    no 
Wren,   in.   139 
Wright.  On.    1,4 
W  right.  nl.  Reeve.  j;j 
Wroo,  350 
Wroth,  254 
Wryght,    213 
Wryothciiley,  136,  15  in. 
\Vyat,  237 
Wyatt.   81,    177 
Wylcby,  97 
Wyllasham,    145 
Wyiughby,  Lord,  118 
Wymcrc,   271 
\\"ymondham,  87 
Wynccstre.  281 
Wynchestre,  281,  283 
Wyndcsore,   72 
Wrage,   190 
Wyngefeld,  253,  255 
\\"yngfeld,  97,  105,   181, 
182,     188,     189,     229, 

337 

\\ynkcfeld.   319 
Wyncve,    141 
Wynncve.    141 
Wyntcr,  207,  310 
Wyseman,  313,  334,  336 
\\"y^touse,   273 
Wythe,    51,    209,    236 
Yallop.  350 
Yarewcll,    94 
Yatcs,  no 
Yaxle.    260 
Yaxloc.  7'.  Yiixley 
Yaxlee.     al.      Harbord, 

=75 

Yaxley  or  \axlee,  63, 
101,  105,  275,  276, 
297,  3°8,  3-0,  349- 

35' 

\elverton,  228 
Yiselham,    112 
York,   Title.   181.   187 
Yorkshire,  E.   of,   24 
Young,    1  68,   202 


CORRECTIONS  TO  THE  LIST  OF  SUBSCRIBERS. 

For  Rev.  Abel  Thomson  Grant  read  Rev.  Alexander  Thomson  Grant. 
For  Fred  Raines  read  Fred.  Raimes. 


ADDITIONAL  SUBSCRIBERS. 

Cambridge  University  Library. 
De  Caux,  William 
Ipswich  Free  Library. 
Kerr,  Hon.  Alex.  Hewitt. 


ERRATUM. 

The  Manor  of  Peasenhall  (Vol.  II.)  belongs  to  the  Rev.  J.  M.  Brooke, 
and  not  as  there  stated. 


TAYLOR  CARNETT.  EVANS 
AND  COMPANY.  LIMITED. 
54,  FLEET  STREET.  LONDON. 

Alio  Manchester  and  Reddish. 


PLEASE  DO  NOT  REMOVE 
CARDS  OR  SLIPS  FROM  THIS  POCKET 

UNIVERSITY  OF  TORONTO  LIBRARY 


