1m 


ave 
tif a a A 


an 
i ve ye 2a 
aA 4a 
cen ane 


Lanta t 
apr ot Mi 
ta a ee ty 

w 


sate 
rere ee 


a h® 


sn 
om # je vl 


a 
1d tk ea fe 
Hee ae | 


ye 


4a 
od wt 
reas oe 
ere ee 
ett ab ie al 
ina 
pe ly 
Fb eee PORE ow jae on 
oye ne et hom pee Te i F 
uy Sk a ad oh tH dol vv oue att ‘ 
at ORR kaa Hd AGS 
bs A 


Pi a 


nth 
i 


f 

wk ba oe et BL 5 4 ie 

, hiya ont beter i 

ie) alg Hola BN Pear it oO tie ve i 9 np 
; of ho PL of od 


Pau oa 
ena t ein CR ty 
‘ 


ve 
eee geen OA ed ft eI AAA a ri 4 
Sat Mana a Ra NL cat aH at ENTE HS 
« a en fe B® 7 ia ane 

’ Rete Ce 4 wee At et OE a! 
ere er ee Pah ae 
renee We ee 
wooem Hf 


Wal, A 
ests 
Yay 


1 
easy 
6 ot 


ve - 

MF eS bog 
2 » ee 

Coal se oh tt 


= 
— 
ws 


= 
ot 


a 


‘ 
ye a 
a4 


; ee es 
tok 
ste 


re 
“= 


We LM we a ee eee 
98 De, ‘ we ol DEE 

Sd a vith) 
a ee 
eee as 


beurre 
rae Bee 
¥ 


. ee 
1 ve OC 


ie acl 


oe oe ae pe 


* 
* 


* 


> 
= 


ay Pes 
were Te ee 


eae 


a 
ons 
=e 


ba 
ee 
ieee 


= 
re 


as 


Sante 
F nee 
3% 


Te Me 
nae? 
7 


a 
W 


= 


= 
me 
sae 

gan: 

2 


se 

peor re re | 
& 

= 


ed ete 
25 


ee 


pet Ss 


= 


EE esos 


tenet ewe ee 


4 


27 
peti ad 
taal 


fi 
. 
~ 
‘ 
a 
‘ 
’ 
, 


in 
<3 


a 
ed 
ere’ 


re 
eae? 


Up 
i oe 


re 
- | . ¢ He ia 


EARLY YORKSHIRE CHARTERS 


* én 
4a Ey 


a. x 
een 


ee 
_ 


EARLY 
YORKSHIRE CHARTERS . 


VOR ZeVITT 


THE HONOUR OF WARENNE 


BASED ON THE MANUSCRIPTS OF THE LATE 
WILLIAM FARRER 


AND EDITED BY 


CHARLES TRAVIS CLAY, C.B., Hon. Litt.D., F.S.A. 


PRINTED FOR 
THE YORKSHIRE ARCHEOLOGICAL SOCIETY 
RECORD SERIES 


EXTRA SERIES VOL: VI 
1949 


; —s : 
beats 
, - 
. _ 
“ 7 
a 2 
y ~ 
e4 
a: + , 
“ all a, < 
+ ig : 
‘ : Since 1 gh 
« ? 
' A p 
’ x 


iS Rees 
: ce 1 
re oe ee w aen. # ih 

‘ ; ; = 7 

- er a = — 

i. a 
: Pen 

Pha 
ae os 
> 
~ me A -. 
a 4 
a al 4 
ee.’ « 
= MSs 
a ee 
< 
- ' 
— is = 
= eee ’ 
/ . 
Tm sand p> a= ie tee += “ Misch a! 


: Printed by = ; 
THE WEST YORKSHIRE PRINTING CO. LIMITED, 
WAKEFIELD. 


INTRODUCTION 


; It was proposed in the Introduction to the seventh volume 
of Early Yorkshire Charters dealing with the honour of Skipton, 
‘which was issued at the beginning of 1948 to subscribers to the 
Record Series for the year 1945, that it should be followed by a 
volume dealing with the honour of Warenne. The material for 
‘this, on which work was begun many years ago and then laid 
aside, has now been prepared ; and the present volume, constitut- 
ing Vol. VI of the Extra Series, is issued to our subscribers for 
the year 1948. ; 


. Farrer’s material for a Warenne section of Early Yorkshire 
Charters contains the texts of only about forty-five charters, 
inclusive of those issued by the tenants ; and for the most part 
they had not been annotated. In two respects this material has 
been increased. First, the year 1240, when the sixth earl died, 
has been taken as an extended terminus of date for the charters ; 
and secondly, as the originals of many of the charters of the lords 
of the honour are in existence, the texts of these, whether they 
relate to Yorkshire specifically or to other portions of the honour, 
have been included. There is no doubt that in order to gain some 
idea of the methods of administration of the honour as a whole 
and of its separate portions, and of the characteristics of the 
charters from the point of view of diplomatic, and to provide a 
useful apparatus for dating purposes, it is essential to examine 
the material from a wider angle than that of any one particular 
county. 


In his detailed account of the honour in his third volume of 
Honors and Knights’ Fees, which is prefaced by a valuable intro- 
duction, Farrer omitted the Yorkshire material except for sections 
relating to the comparatively small amount of land held by 
knight-service.1 There is available his uncompleted manuscript 
for the Yorkshire portion of the honour, with twenty-three num- 
bered sections for the honour of Conisborough and the manor of 
Wakefield. It is evidently an early draft, and it is uncertain 
whether he compiled it before or after the material for Early 
Yorkshire Charters. But, although it is subject to revision and it 
is often difficult to ascertain his final verdict on some particular 
problem, it contains many useful references which have been 
freely used for the purposes of the present volume. 

Of the charters now printed between forty-five and fifty 
are originals, and of these about thirty relate to Lewes priory. 
Except for the original foundation charter of the priory, formerly 
at Cluny and now in the Bibliothéque Nationale—a document of 


1 H.K.F., iii, pp. 416-20. 


vi HONOUR OF WARENNE 


the first importance, of which a collotype facsimile is given in 
Plate I—and for four or five! in the British Museum, these Lewes 
originals form part of the extensive series of the priory’s muni- 
ments preserved in the Public Record Office. Formerly in two 
separate collections they are now all included in the class of 
Ancient Deeds.” It is from these that the majority of the original 
charters issued by the lords of the honour up to the death of the 
sixth earl in 12403 have been selected for the present volume. 
They also include two originals relating to the Yorkshire posses- 
sions of the priory (nos. 124, 144), the second of which is a letter 
from Hubert Walter describing the church of Halifax as ‘eque 
‘ignotam ut ignoranti.’ Both of these are included among the 
collotype illustrations (plates XXII and. XXV). 


In his examination of this combined collection in the Public 
Record Office, Professor Galbraith has described the nature and 
variety of the endorsements, and the successive systems of 
classification while the charters were in the priory’s muniment 
room.* The system which was instituted about the year 1400 
was based on a classification into nineteen sections, to which 
Roman numerals were assigned ; and of these the numbers V and 
VI comprised charters issued by the Warenne family:> Shortly 
afterwards this system was elaborated ; and the charters in some 
of the sections, which included V and VI, were endorsed with 
Lombardic capitals, each with a series of Roman sub-numbers. 
Thus “‘Class V. was sub-divided into two divisions, lettered A 
and B, and the deeds in each of these divisions were numbered 
1., ll., lii., iv., etc! To Class VI. were assigned the letters 'C, D, 
EK, and F, each of which was numbered in the same way as A 
and B.’’® It was this latter system which led to. the arrangement 
of the documents copied into the fifteenth-century Lewes Char- 
tulary, in which the copies were usually given the letter and 
sub-number of the latest endorsement on the originals. To take 
examples from the present volume no. 7 was endorsed in’ two 
stages V. B. ui, indicating that it was originally placed in section 
V and subsequently lettered B with the sub-number ii; and the 
number in the Chartulary is duly given as !3/,. Similarly no. 12 was 


' It is doubtful whether no. 5 is an original or a contemporary copy. 

* Up to about twenty-five years ago one of these collections, about 
three hundred in number, was contained in Misc. Books (Chapter House) 
B*/,;; and it was with that reference that Round printed seven in Ancient 
Charters (Pipe Roll Soc.) ; see for instance the source headings to nos. 10 
and 13 in Chapter II below. 

> Most of these come from the collection mentioned in the preceding 
note. 
* ‘Press-Marks on the Deeds of Lewes Priory’ in Sussex Aych. Collec- 
tions, Ixv, pp. 196-205 (1924). 

° Most of the originals from this collection which are printed in the 
present volume, being charters of the earls, are endorsed with one or other 
of these numbers. No. 50, an original in the British Museum, has the 
number XIII, which was the number allotted to the Rape of Lewes (Gal- 
braith, loc. cit., p. 199). 

© lbtd., p. 203; 


- INTRODUCTION ° “vi 


endorsed ‘VI (and) C. iij, and the corresponding number in. the 
Chartulary is 113/, ; and no. 15 D. xvii (and) VI, with the corres- 
ponding number *v!J/,,. Again, two original Lewes charters in the 
British Museum, nos. 32 and 50, were endorsed’ V (and A. i), 
and xxvii over R with the (sectional) number XIII, respectively; 
and the copies in’ the Chartulary have the same letter and sub- 
number. Indeed, in practically all the examples in the present 
volume, where the original exists and a copy appears in the 
Chartulary, the numbers precisely correspond.t On the_ other 
hand, no. 35, an original, has no endorsement showing either 
system, and of this no copy was entered in the Chartulary among 
the charters of the earls. It is particularly significant, as is pointed 
out on pp. 59” and 66, that to two documents purporting to be 
charters of the first and second earls which are entered in the 
Chartulary no letter and sub-number are given. This suggests 
that there were no genuine originals from which these copies were 
made,” giving one reason among many others for supposing that 
they cannot be accepted as copies of genuine charters. 


The Lewes Chartulary already mentioned is the manuscript 
compiled by order of the prior in 1444. It is now in the British 
Museum (Cotton MS. Vespasian F. XV). The greater portion of 
it was printed in English translation and edited by Mr. L. F. 
Salzman for the Sussex Record Society, being vols. XX XVIII and 
XL issued for the years 1932 and 1934.4, With the encouragement 
and co-operation of that Society four sections relating to Cambridge- 
shire, Norfolk, Surrey and Yorkshire have been similarly printed 
by the Archaeological or Record Societies of those counties ; and 
the Sussex Record Society has completed the work in a supple- 
ment dealing with Wiltshire and the remaining counties. In 
these editions recourse has: been had for comparative purposes to 
the corresponding originals still existing ; and translations have 
been given of several other originals which were not copied into 
the Chartulary. The evidence is conclusive that the Chartulary 
_contains copies of only a proportion of the priory’s muniments, 
almost all the papal bulls, and royal and episcopal charters, for 
instance, being omitted ; and bound up with it are some leaves of 
another chartulary of a slightly earlier date, the remainder of 
which is now lost. There are fortunately in existence two frag- 


' An exception is no. 55 which appears to have no numerical endorse- 
ment visible ; and no. 40 has only the number VI, though the subsequent 
endorsement may have been made on the portion now torn away. 

2 Professor Galbraith (ibid., p. 203) notes this with respect to what 
he describes as ‘the highly suspicious foundation charter’ pd. in Mon. Ang., 
v, 12; 2.e., the first of the two. The first of the continuously numbered series 
entered in the Chartulary (1/,) is headed as the second charter of the first 
founder, though actually it could not have been issued before the succession 
of the third earl (S.R.S., i, 7 and corrigenda in ibid., ii, p. xxiii). 

> See Appendix D and the note to charter no. 6. 

* This edition is cited throughout the present volume in the abbreviated 
form of S.R.S. 


viii HONOUR OF. WARENNE 


ments of a twelfth-century register;! one is in the Public. Record 
Office (Exch. K. R. Eccl. bundle 2, no. 40), and its contents: are 
immediately followed on the first of two leaves in the British 
Museum (Cotton MS. Vespasian E. ii, ff. 106-107%). | 


It is no exaggeration to say that the 1444 Chartulary must 
be used with care. On several points it is dangerous to accept its 
evidence without corroboration. In the first place, apart from the 
suspicious character of the two important documents mentioned 
above—the so-called foundation charter of the first earl and the 
comprehensive confirmation charter of the second*—there are 
some narrative passages giving the history of the earls? which 
have often been used as authoritative. In four of these Gundreda, 
wife of William de Warenne the first earl, is stated to have been 
the daughter of the Conqueror. This statement doubtless reflects 
the tradition current in the priory in the fifteenth century that 
the wife of the founder had so exalted a parentage—more exalted, 
however, than was actually the truth. Then the date of death of 
Isabel, wife of the second earl, is given as 13 Feb. 1131 ‘and the 
seventh year before her husband’, whereas it is certain that she 
survived him ; and similarly the statement that Isabel de Warenne 
died in 1199 before her husband earl Hamelin is untrue.: On the 
other hand, the days of the month which are given for the deaths 
of the earls can probably be accepted, as those. presum- 
ably corresponded with the days on which their obits were 
observed ; and the details given for the year in which the second 
earl died are certainly of value. In the second place, the headings 
to some of the charters of the earls cannot be trusted, difficult 
though it is to differentiate between so many holders of the earl- 
dom bearing the name of William. An. example has been given 
in a preceding footnote. Another is a charter described as of 
William the second founder which was actually issued by the 
third earl in 1147 (charter no. 33 in the present volume), though 
it is only fair to add that the original was wrongly endorsed as a 
charter of the second. In the third place, some of the copies show 
the results of inflation. A comparison of the original of another 


1 See pp. 38, 60n, 67n below. The B.M. leaves are pd. in Mon. Ang., 
v, On. 

? For the importance for Yorkshire history of the question of the | 
latter, which if authentic would have been issued in the period 1091-97, 
see the note to charter no. 6. 

3 Ff. 105-109 (S.R.S., ii, pp. 13-21). 

* The whole question is explored in the present volume in Appendix 
A (pp. 40-6). While the volume was passing through the press I happened 
to notice a paper by Miss Audrey Baker in Walpole Society, vol. xxxi (1946), 
who gives detailed evidence for supposing that the wall-paintings in the 
church of Clayton, a member of the honour of Warenne in Sussex, display 
a Flemish influence, and may date from the eleventh century ; and she 
suggests (p. 42) that ‘‘attention should be directed more to the person of 
William of Warenne with his known interest in the Church and his probable 
contacts with Flanders, than to the monks of Lewes when seeking for the 
donor of the Clayton paintings.’’ If, as is reasonably certain, Gundreda 
was a Fleming, William de Warenne’s connexion with Flanders was close. 


~---» INTRODUCTION - ix 


issued in 1147 (no. 32) with the copy in the Chartulary proves that 
to the latter an insertion, clearly unauthorized, was introduced of 
a gift of 100s. in the borough of Lewes, together with a long im- 
precatory clause. The number given in the Chartulary ('1/,) pre- 
cisely corresponds with the endorsement number on the original. 


At the same time the great importance of the Chartulary, 
with its evidence for so many lines of local history, must certainly 
not be underestimated. It contains the texts of numerous charters 
the originals of which are no longer in existence, and it often 
supplies evidence for completing the texts of originals which are 
now in a defective condition. 


The Yorkshire section of the Chartulary, distinct from 
charters issued by the earls with special reference to their pos- 
sessions in the county, occupies ff. 292-306. The material in the 
last three folios, consisting of rentals of Halifax and Heptonstall 
made in 1439, was printed in translation many years ago by the 
Halifax Antiquarian Society. The charters contained in ff. 
292-303Y were printed in full translation in the Yorkshire Archaeo- 
logical Journal, vol. xxxi, in 1933. They consist of two numbered 
series; in the first, nos. i-xx, of fourteen charters relating to 
Braithwell,? four to Halifax, and one, wrongly included there, to 
Greasbrough ; and in the second, nos. i-xxv, of seven relating to 
Sandal Magna and Kirk Sandal, mixed together, four to Kirk- 
burton, three to Micklebring, par. Braithwell, two each to Conis- 
borough and Bramley, one each to Dinnington, Heptonstall, 
Normanton, Hatfield, Harthill, and Greasbrough, and one of a 
general character. In the present volume there are printed the 
full texts of seventeen charters from the Yorkshire section, dating 
from the twelfth century or before the death of the sixth earl in 
1240, of which the originals of two are preserved in the Public 
Record Office ; and the contents of several of the others have 
proved of value for reference purposes, especially in view of their 
excellent lists of witnesses. It must be noted that in one important 
particular the introductory matter to the paper in the Journal 
must be amended (pp. 291-2). It concerns the man called Druard 
de Wacchesfelda and the early history of the church of Wakefield. 
It was then supposed that the general confirmation charter of the 
second earl (no. 6 in the present volume) was authentic and 
issued in the period 1091-97. That entailed the deduction that 
Druard was then dead, and evidence was given for a younger 
Druard living at a later date. The point is examined in detail in 
the note to charter no. 9 ; and it can now be suggested that there 
was only one Druard, alive in 1106. In view of the necessary 
abandonment of the date 1091-97 any statement that the churches 


1 In a publication constituting vol. i of the Record Series of that 
Society, pp. 49-54. 

2 Apart from no. i, which relates to Great Bradley in Suffolk, and 
was included in the Braithwell section by mistake, perhaps in view of an 
endorsement on the original. 


2.8 HONOUR. OF WARENNE 


of Conisborough and Wakefield were given to Lewes priory by 
1097 cannot be upheld ; and the most that can be said with safety 
is that the gifts were made by 1121 (see the note to no. 8). 


Another chartulary which provides important material is 
that of the priory of Castle Acre (Harl. MS. 2110). The monks 
from Lewes whom the first earl. established in his castle at Castle 
Acre were transferred by the second earl to their new site in the 
time of Herbert, bishop of Norwich, 1091-1119. Several of the 
charters entered in the Castle Acre Chartulary are printed in the 
Monasticon ; but a complete edition of the manuscript would be 
welcome. It is an example of a source, primarily concerning one 
county, which is of value for the history of others ; and it is by 
no means without an interest for Yorkshire.1 One of its charters, 
for instance, records that Scolland, whose name is preserved in 
his hall in Richmond castle, was buried in the priory.2 Although 
they are not originals, six from the large collection of its charters 
issued by the earls, not directly concerning Yorkshire, are printed 
in the present volume, having been selected for some particular 
reason, such as to give another illustration of administrative 
work performed by the second earl’s dispenser (no. 21). — 


Material from other chartularies of religious houses which 
acquired interests in lands held of the honour of Conisborough or 
the manor of Wakefield is taken. from those of Fountains abbey 
and Nostell and Felley priories ; and the Sele -Chartulary records 
a gift to Roche abbey of land in the distant. vill of. Rottingdean, 
giving evidence for the marriages of one of earl: Hamelin’s daugh- 
ters (no. 96). Among the Dodsworth MSS., which always provide 
a wealth of material for these volumes, the collection in. his vol. 
Ixii from the manuscripts then belonging to Sir Francis Wortley 
is valuable for the early Sa aE of the Horbury family from 
whom he was descended. . | 


_. Apart from the original sities in favour of Lewes priory 
the Public Record Office has provided five other originals. One 
of these is a sale to earl Hamelin of land in the canton of Bellen- 
combre, the caput of the Warenne honour in Normandy (no.. 83). 
This. appears to have. no direct connexion with Lewes, and. yet 
for some unexplained reason the original was among the priory 
muniments and a copy entered in the Chartulary. The other 
four, of Yorkshire interest, relate to Thorne and Fishlake (nos. 
130-1) and to Sowerbyshire (nos. 170-1). Originals in the British 
Museum include, in addition to the four or five Lewes documents, 
two grants of privileges in Yorkshire to the priory of St. Katherine, 
Lincoln (nos. 76, 85); a charter of the sixth earl in favour of Roche 
abbey (no. 95); and three which relate to the Surrey portion of the 
honour (nos. 80, 81, 86). Of the three originals from collections in 

' E.g. E.Y.C., v, no. 311 ; and for its provision of a clue for determining 


the eta of the FitzAlans of Bedale see Y Al} oama, pp. 286-7: 
Harl. MS. 2110, f. 69Y (old f. 63V) ; Mon. Ang., v, 53. + 


INTRODUCTION : x1 


the custody of our own Society special notice may be directed to 
the charter from the Hornby Castle collection of the Duke of Leeds 
-by which Elias de Bosville enfeoffed Reginald de Warenne of his 
land in Harthill, to hold by the service of a quarter of a knight 
(no. 111 and plate XXI). This charter, already known from its 
inclusion in a volume of Yorkshire Deeds, has a reference to the 
honorial peers—‘coram Isabel comitissa Warennie domina nostra 
et coram paribus nostris’; and it may be noted here that among 
the charters of the third earl printed in the present volume there 
are several which are addressed to his barons, that is to say to 
the principal tenants of the honour or of a specified portion of it. 


Of the series of original charters transcribed in the present 
volume collotype illustrations have been made of twenty-five. 
The first, a double plate, is the foundation charter of Lewes priory, 
already mentioned. Fifteen are from the collections of the priory 
muniments in the Public Record Office, another, of Yorkshire 
interest, in the same depository, six from various collections in 
the British Museum, and two from collections in the custody of 
our own Society. A list of them is given on a later page (p. xxiii). 


§2. 


Among the many printed books which have been consulted 
for the present purpose special assistance has been derived from 
the section on the honour of Warenne in the third volume of 
Farrer’s Honors and Knights’ Fees ; from the notes on the earldom 
of Surrey in the first edition of G.E.C.’s Complete Peerage ; from 
the printed: editions of the Lewes Chartulary in translation, men- 
tioned above ; and, chiefly for the honour of Conisborough, from 
Joseph Hunter’s South Yorkshire. In addition to these there is 
one book in particular which must never be neglected in any 
attempt to trace the history of the family. This is the Memoirs 
of the Ancient Earls of Warren and Surrey, and their descendants 
to the present tume, by the Rev. John Watson, 2 vols., Warrington, 
1782.2 It is a remarkable book—remarkable alike for its sumptuous 
-execution and for the fallacy of its central theme. With a series 
of lavish illustrations and a wealth of engravings from copper 
plates, it was produced at the expense of Sir George Warren of 
Poynton, who had presented the author to the rectory of Stock- 
port in 1769 ; and the principal object was to trace Sir George’s 


1 Nos. 31, -38 and 43-46. <A charter of Reginald de Warenne, when 
administering the honour, was addressed to the earl’s barons, his act being 
made ‘communi consilio prioris de sancto Pancratio et baronum consulis’ 
(no. 50). In another charter of the third earl to Lewes priory, entered in 
the Chartulary (S.R.S., i, 63), he referred to other things which his barons 
had given. An example of a charter addressed by earl Hamelin to his 
English barons is given in the text below in the note to no. 47. 

2 Cited in the present volume as Watson, Memoirs. 


Xi HONOUR OF WARENNE 


descent in a legitimate male line back to the earls of Surrey.! 
Watson proved to his own satisfaction, and presumably to that 
of his patron, that Sir George was so descended from Reginald 
a younger son of the second earl ; and he was of the opinion that 
the Warennes of Wormegay were descended not (as they certainly 
were) from-that Reginald, but from Reginald a younger son of the 
‘first earl.? | ; | 

The book itself, together with details showing that the 
Warrens of Poynton were descended from an illegitimate son of 
the last earl, was the subject of a valuable paper by John Gough 
Nichols, ‘A Bibliographical and Critical Account of the three 
editions of Watson’s Memoirs of the Ancient Earls of Warren and 
Surrey’, printed in The Herald and Genealogist, vol. vii (1873), 
pp. 193-219. There is a detailed description of the two preliminary 
editions, those of 1776 and 1779, of which six and about twelve 
or fifteen copies respectively appear to have been printed, only 
one surviving copy of each being known to Nichols ; and the text 
is included of a notice by Joseph Hunter on the Warrens of 
Poynton, communicated to the last number of The Retrospective 
Review in 1828, supplementary to his account of the earls in 
South Yorkshire, in which he exposed Watson’s errors, first that 
the Warrens of Poynton were in legitimate descent from the 
ancient earls, and secondly that, being so descended, the head of 
that family had a right to the earldom. Watson’s Memoirs has 
undoubtedly an antiquarian and artistic charm of a special 
character ; but his collections of material, useful as they are, 
must be critically examined, and certainly many of his deduc- 
tions cannot be accepted. 


My first words of personal acknowledgement must be to the 
late Mr. Lewis Loyd, without whose encouragement and co- 
operation these volumes of Early Yorkshire Charters would not 
have been attempted. As long ago as 1930 we had both become 
interested in several problems relating to the subject of the present 
volume, and three years later he contributed his paper to the 
Yorkshire Archaeological Journal on ‘The Origin of the Family of 
Warenne.’ It is an illustration of his unrivalled knowledge. of 
Norman origins and Norman sources, which with characteristic 
generosity he continuously placed at the disposal of others ; and 


' In his own account of his career which he printed in his History of 
Halifax, published in 1775, pp. 523-5, Watson records that he had in manu-: 
script, ready for the press ‘An History of the Antient Earls of Warren and 
Surry, proving the Warrens of Poynton, in Cheshire, to be lineally and legally 
descended from them.’ 

2 It is scarcely credible that this origin of the Warennes of Wormegay 
could be seriously maintained. Reginald son of the first earl was certainly 
dead in 1118, and Reginald son of the second earl did not acquire the 
eich: of Wormegay until his father-in-law’s death in 1166 (see pp. 6, 27 

elow). 

> Of this a separately paged print had been dated and issued in 1871; 
the copy in my possession was sent by Nichols to Mr. Fairless Barber on 
23 Aug. of that year. 


INTRODUCTION xill 


it is a rare example of a piece of his own research to which he 
consented to give his own name. It was followed by an Appendix 
to vol. ix of the new edition of The Complete Peerage, in which 
he summed up his evidence and conclusions on the relationship 
between the families of Mortemer and Warenne. There were cer- 
tain problems which engaged our close attention, both with a 
view to the preparation of material for an account of the Warenne 
family in the present volume, and for the article on the earldom 
of Surrey which sooner or later would be drafted for The Complete 
Peerage. In 1934 he drew up a memorandum, revised in 1940, 
dealing with the four problems of the date of death of William 
de Warenne I, the date of creation of the earldom, the authenticity 
of the two earliest documents in the Lewes Chartulary, and the 
thorny question of Gundreda; while another example of his 
careful research was the parentage of at least one of the daughters 
of Reginald de Warenne of Wormegay. Before his death in 1947 
he had not examined in its final form much of the contents of the 
present volume ; but I remember his concurrence, always with 
valuable suggestions for improvement, with certain portions which 
included the accounts of earl Hamelin’s daughters and the family 
of Neufmarché. It is to him that is primarily due the identification 
of several places in Normandy, some being in the immediate 
vicinity of Bellencombre, from which families holding tenancies 
of the honour in England derived their name. 


My thanks are also due to Professor D. C. Douglas and Mr. 
G. H. White for their examination of some of the proof-sheets ; 
to the authorities of the Bibliothéque Nationale for permission to 
include the photograph of the foundation charter of Lewes priory, 
and to Miss Joyce Matthews for the arrangements she kindly 
made in that connexion; to the Fellows of Magdalen College, 
Oxford, for permission to include portions of a document from 
their muniments, of which particulars were given to me by Mr. 
K. B. McFarlane, and to Miss Kathleen Major for making a tran- 
script ; to the Sussex Record Society, through the good offices of 
Mr. L. F. Salzman, for the loan of photostats of the Lewes 
Chartulary ; to Monsieur G. Coulen of Saint-Omer for the refer- 
ences to earl Hamelin’s charters to the abbey of Saint-Bertin ; 
to Dr. E. G. Millar, lately Keeper of MSS., and Mr. F. Wormald 
for facilites in connexion with manuscripts in the British Museum; 
and similarly to Mr. H.C. Johnson and Mr. R. E. Latham of the 
Public Record Office, and to Dr. W. O. Hassall of the Bodleian 
Library ; to Canon Harrison, Chancellor and Librarian of York 
Minster, Professor A. Hamilton Thompson, Sir Frank and Lady 
Stenton, Mr. Charles Johnson, Mr. J. W. Walker and Mr. A. L. 
Poole, for help on several points ; to the Oxford University Press 
for preparing the collotypes, and the West Yorkshire Printing 
Company for their customary care in printing the volume ; to 
Miss Norah Davenport for drawing the two maps; and to Mr. 
Norman Smedley for making arrangements for the photograph 


XiV HONOUR OF WARENNE 


of Conisborough Castle, which was specially taken and kindly 
presented by Mr. Bernard Cuttriss. 


. Lastly, I record my gratitude to my father, whose work for 
the’.Record- Series and in other fields prompted me more than 
fifty years ago in our home at Rastrick, itself a member of the 
manor of Wakefield, to share his interests in the early history of 
the West Riding. 


CHARLES CLAY 


li TITE- ST, CHELSEA 
July, 1949. 


§2, 
§3. 


ee i OO et ee 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


CHAPLPE Ry 1: 


THE EARLY GENERATIONS OF THE FAMILY OF 
WARENNE 

The Warennes of Wormegay oF 

Some other branches of the Warenne family 

APPENDIX A. Gundreda wife of William de Warenne I 

APPENDIX B. Charters of King Henry I witnessed by the 
second earl without the comital style 

APPENDIX c. Charters of William son of King fone 
fourth earl de Warenne 


CHAPTER II. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS OF THE HONOUR 


Rodulf de Warenne to the abbey of Holy Trinity, Rouen 

William de Warenne I and Gundreda to the abbey of Cluny 
—foundation of Lewes priory os ts 

Notification by King William I--confirmation to the abbey 
of Cluny of Falmer te st : Bs 

King William I to Lewes priory—confirmation of West Walton 

King William II to same—confirmation of Heacham 

APPENDIX D. Note on the supposed first charter of William 
de Warenne I 


CHARTERS OF THE SECOND EARL 


William de Warenne II to Lewes priory—general confirmation 

Same to same—confirmation 

Same to same—gift of church of romaeehnyiens 

Same to same—gift of churches of Wakefield 

Archbishop Ralph to same—general confirmation .. 

William de Warenne JI to Pontefract priory—rent in Shitling. 
ton se ie oe a se A 

Same to Lewes priory—land in Norfolk, Cambridgeshire and 
Sussex sis 

Same to same—land in Nn ese 

Same to same—land in Swanborough | 

Same to same —six Sussex churches ae 

Same to same—contirmation of land in Harpingden 


XVi 


30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 


35. 
36. 


37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 


44, 
45. 
46. 
47. 

- 48. 


HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Same to his sheriff—mandate in favour of Lewes priory 
Same to Lewes priory—confirmation of church of Weston 

Colville 
Same to his dispenser—mandate in favour of Lewes priory 
Same to Lewes priory—church of Kingston 


Countess Jsabel to the dispenser—mandate in favour of Castle 
Acre priory 


William de Warenne II to Castle Acre priory—confirmation 
Same to same—land in Norfolk | 


Same to Rainer de On aaa in favour of Castle 
Acre priory 

Same to Wymondham priory—confirmation 

Same to the abbey of St. Evroul—{reedom from dues 


Same to the abbey of St. Amand—rent from Bellencombre 
Same to Longueville priory—confirmation 


Same to Bellencombre priory—land and rents in Normandy 
and England 


CHARTERS OF THE THIRD EARL 


William de Warenne III to St. Mary’s, York—land in Hatfield 

Same to Nostell priory—confirmation of church of Woodkirk 

Same to Lewes priory—general confirmation 

Same to same—another confirmation av A 

Same to same—confirmation of churches of a 
and Wakefield is : 

Same to same—confirmation ot a gift by countess igabel 

Same to same—confirmation of churches of Poynings and 
Pangdean cs 

Same to same—grant of venison 

Same to same—grant of licence to fish 

Same to same—confirmation of a gift in Lewes 

Same to same—confirmation of mill of Attlebridge 

Same to same—confirmation of five Norfolk churches 

Same to same—confirmation of land at Massingham , 

Same—writ in favour of Castle Acre priory for land in 
Massingham : ae aa 

Same to Castle Acre priceeeeee drivmation of land of Threxton 

Same to Holy Sepulchre priory, Thetford—foundation charter 

Same to the Templars—rent from Lewes 

Same—confirmation of a gift of land in Harpley Ss 

Archbishop Theobald to countess Ala—admonition for not 
paying tithes to Lewes priory Say? = eee 


Page 


82 
83 
84 
85 


86 
87 


88 
89 

. 89 
89 
90 
91 
92 


oz 
93 
93 
94 
95 


95 


CONTENTS XVll 


‘CHARTERS OF REGINALD DE WARENNE AS ADMINISTRATOR 
AND OF THE FOURTH EARL 


Page 

49. Reginald de Warenne to Lewes priory—confirmation of 
land in Rottingdean a me ‘ "es 97 

50. Same to the sheriff of Lewes—restoration of gild- -merchant 
to the burgesses of Lewes .. $5 ie ; 97 

51. William fourth earl to Nostell priory—confirmation of end 
in Barnborough and mill of Harlington Ki Me 98 
52. Same to Lewes Priory—land in Betchworth a Re 99 
53. Countess Isabel to same—confirmation of same .. es LOU 


CHARTERS OF EARL HAMELIN AND COUNTESS ISABEL 


54. Earl Hamelin to Lewes priory—general confirmation Ale vant 17 
55. Same to same—confirmation of churches and tithes in York- 

shire ei de te me Be ie 102 
56. Same—notification of same aa a a 103 
57. Same to Guy Ruffus—church of Braithwell £4 ce 103 
58. Same to Lewes priory—church of Conisborough .. ee 104 
59. Same to same—general confirmation including churches in 

Yorkshire ; 105 
60. Archbishop Geoffrey to Bere echarcnes Ena tithes in ae 

shire ae ” * ; 7 107 
61. Pope Celestine ILI to eee rch of pekeedan ei: 108 
62. Earl Hamelin and countess Isabel to same—quittance of 

carrying service beyond Well Stream re aye 109 
63. Earl Hamelin to same—land near Conisborough .. en 109 
64. Same to same—tithe of eels in Yorkshire a ae 110 
65. Countess Jsabel to same—confirmation of same... Uke 111 
66. William son of earl Hamelin—confirmation of same hs 111 
67. Earl Hamelin to the Hospitallers—confirmation .. in 111 
68. Same to Matthew de Horbury—land in Dewsbury es 112 
69. Same to same—land near Horbury 36 oe bs 113 
70. Same to Pain the water-bailiff—land in Thorne .. she oe adh 
71. Same to St. Mary’s York—thirty breams yearly .. bis 114 
72. Same to Nostell priory—confirmation.. f na 115 
73. Same to same—another confirmation cay ye : 115 
74. Same and countess Isabel to castle chapel of C Mea aieh 

—rent from mills of Conisborough .. te ee 116 
75. Same to free burgesses of Wakefield fe oe me 116 
76. Same to St. Katherine’s priory, Lincoln—pasture rights in 

Thorne and Hatfield a8 oo ue ve 117 
77. Same to Lewes priory—land in Ovingdean ; 119 


78. Theobald abbot of Cluny and earl Hamelin—appointment of 
the prior of Lewes 7 re ve Saat W he, 


XV1ll 


Ton 
80. 


81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 


85. 


86. 
87. 


88. 
89. 
90. 
hs 


92: 
93. 


94, 
any 


96. 
v7, 
98. 


99: 
100. 
101. 


102. 
103. 
104. 
105, 


HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Hugh abbot of Cluny and earl Hamelin—same : 

Earl Hamelin in favour of Southwark priory—chapel of 
Newdigate : ; i 

Same to Robert de Cb eaiate and mill in Horley 

Same—receipt of Thetford in exchange for land in Touraine 

Robert de Portmort to earl Hamelin—fee at Louvetot 

Earl Hamelin to the abbey of St. Victor-en-Caux—con- 
firmation : : ova Hy ns 

Countess Isabel to St. Kathenne S TRB Lincoln—pasture 
rights ar : s 

Same to Richard de Cuminoeniene and mill in sie 

Same to Lewes priory—tithe of eels in Yorkshire 


CHARTERS OF THE SIXTH EARL 


William sixth earl to Lewes priory—general COM 

Same to Kirklees priory-—confirmation 

Same to Richard de Cartworth---land in Wooldale : 

Same in favour of ‘ Lewes priory—payment of tithes in 
Yorkshire 

Same to John de Waicetiond Meee in Wa kefield 

Same to St. Michael’s priory, Stamford-—rent from Wake- 
field mill ‘ 

Same to Roche roped en nee > 

Same in favour of same—tithe of eels in Hatfield and 
Fishlake .. os ; ‘ ‘ cae 

Ela daughter of earl Hamelin to eae re in Rote en 

William sixth earl to same—confirmation of same 

Same to Slevesholme priory—gift of site . . 


CHAPTER III. 


CONISBOROUGH 


Introductory . a 
$1. THE erie Nh FEES : 
Elias de Bosville to Nostell priory—land in Bacnbereaen 
Same to same—mill and land in Barnborough : 
William de Warenne, son of Henry earl of N Be eS to 
same—confirmation of same ag 
Elias de Bosville to same—land in Barnborough 
Henry Picot to same—confirmation 
Same and Lettice his wife to same—confirmation 
Henry du Puiset to same—confirmation 


Page 
120 


123 
124 
124 
125 


126 


127 
128 
129 


129 
130 
131 


131 
132 


133 
133 


134 
134 
135 
135 


CHARTERS RELATING TO LANDS OF THE HONOUR OF 


137 
140 
149 
150 


150 
152 
152 
153 
153 


106. 
107. 
108. 
109. 
110. 
111. 
112. 
113. 
114. 
115. 


116. 


117. 
118, 
119. 
120. 
121. 
122. 
123. 
124. 
125. 
126. 
127. 
128. 
129. 
130. 


131. 


132. 


133, 


CONTENTS 


Gerbod and Amice his wife to same—land in Barnborough . 
William son of Gerbod to same—confirmation of same 
Henry de Wortley to Thomas de Horbury—land in Bilham 
Thomas de Horbury to Josiana his daughter—same 
Elias de Bosville to Lewes priory—church of Harthill — 
Same to Reginald de Warenne—land in Harthill 
William de Warenne to Lewes priory—advowson of Harthill 
Same to same—same 
Mabel de Tilly to Penal esc of Hatfield 
Abbot of Roche to Thomas de Bosville—testament of H. 
de Hatfield 
§2. THE FRESCHEVILLE FEE 
§3. MISCELLANEOUS im . 
Mag. G. [?] Scottus and Richard the Mere of Beiiweliee 
tithes of Bramley . PK 
Mag. Walter de Hadintun and Lewes priory—same 
Mabel de Tilly to Felley priory—land in Braithwell, etc. 
Same to Roche abbey——land in Bramley .. 
Same to same—confirmation 
Henry de Braithwell to Maurice de Clitton—land in ‘Braithwell 
Maurice de Clifton to Richard de Hauville—same . os 
Thomas de Braithwell to Lewes priory—meadow in Braithwell 
Robert Brito to same—land near Conisborough 
Reginald de Conisborough to same—land in Conisborough 
Nicholas de Dinnington to same—advowson of Dinnington 
Thomas de Sandal to same—chapel of Kirk Sandal 
Same to same—same 
Same to same—same 
Robert son of Pain to Ranulf the CERES of Geneesiieetl 
in Thorne and Fishlake 
Ranulf the chaplain to Maud, countess of Norfolk and de 


Warenne-—same 


CHAPTER IV. 


WAKEFIELD 


Introductory .. 
§1. THE BURGH FEE 
§2. MISCELLANEOUS 
(i) West Ardsley é 
Michael de Soothill to Richard de Cee in West 
Ardsley ‘ Ue 
Richard de OPERAS for same Pt ae 


x1X 
Page 
154 
154 
155 
156 
156 
158 
160 
160 
161 


162 
162 
163 


164 
165 
166 
168 
169 
169 
170 
171 
172 
172 
173 
173 
175 
175 


176 


176 


CHARTERS RELATING TO LANDS OF THE MANOR OF 


178 
182 
184 
185 


186 
188 


XX 


134. 


"135. 
136. 


137. 


138. 


139. 


140. 
141. 
142. 
143. 


144. 
145. 


146. 
147. 
148. 
149. 
150. 


151. 
152. 
153. 


154. 
155. 


156. 


157. 
158. 
159. 


160. 
161. 
162. 


HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Robert Brito to Robert de Everingham—gift to canons of 
Woodkirk 
(ii) Pee vlecton: ; 
Henry de Eland to St. Peter’s hosuita leet in apelesten 
Same to Nostell priory—land in same 
(iii) North Crosland a an fe 
Adam de Crosland to Fountains abbey—millstones and wood 
. (iv) Farnley (Leeds) : oe 
Samson de Farnley to St. Peter’s church, Leeds—rent in 
Farnley 
(v) Fixby 
Samson de Wridlesford to William the ae of Fee and 
in Fixby : 
Robert de Fixby to Ivo eee land in gee 
Same to same—same 


' Same to same—rent from same .. 


Henry de Fland to Fountains ivhes tina in Fixby 
(vi) Halifax : ay 
Hubert Walter to Lewes Sra petite of { Halifax 
(vii) Hartshead-cum-Clifton 
Reiner Fleming to Kirklees priory—confirmation . 
(viii) Holdsworth 
John son of Assolf to cell of Woodkirk—land in Holietern 
John son of Assolf de Holdsworth to same—land in same 
Same to Elias de Rishworth—land in same : 
Agnes de Holdsworth to cell of Woodkirk—land in same 
Ralph son of Hugh to same—land in same 
(ix) Horbury and Middle Shitlington 
Thomas de Horbury and Roger de Birkin—trees in Shitlington 
Same and same—land in Shitlington 
Jordan de Horbury to Thomas de signee eee in Settee 
etc: 
Same to fidence ene of Bee 
Adam de Flockton to Thomas de Pein and in Little 
Midgley .. ’ ‘ 
Ralph and Thomas de Horbury—rights in Mee 
(x) Kirkburton : : 
Richard de Birstall, serene of Kinivartom 
Robert de Burton to Lewes priory—same : 
Matthew de Middleton to Roger the Serine in Riley 
and Kirkburton 
(xi) Old Lindley 
Roger de Stanley to John Talvas—land in 1 Old Lindley 
Same to Fountains abbey—confirmation 
Malvesin de Hersy to John Talvas—land in same 
(xii) Normanton 


Page 


189 
190 
191 
193 
193 
194 
195 


195 
196 


197 
198 
199 
200 
200 
201 
202 
202 
203 
205 
205 
206 
207 
208 
208 
209 
214 
214 


215 
216 


216 
4 We 
218 
218 
220 


221 
221 
222 
223 
224 
226 


163. 


164. 


165. 


166. 
167. 


168. 


169. 


170. 


wae 


172. 


CONTENTS 


Lewes priory and Hugh, rector of Wakefield—church of 
Normanton 
(xiii) Ossett 
Wilham de Ossett to Ralph de eo and in Ossett 
Jordan son of Halegrim to same—land in same 
(xiv) Rastrick 
Emma de Batley to Roger de ees Sand in teeege 
Henry de Eland to same—land in same 
(xv) Rishworth 
Thomas de Horbury to Ivo Talvas— ie in Robern 
(xvi) Saltonstall 
Ralph de Horbury and Thomas de eee in Sutspacll 
(xvii) Sowerbyshire 
William sixth earl de Warenne and Ralph and Thomas de 
Horbury—chases in Sowerbyshire 
Same and John de Thornhill—rights in same 
(xviii) Wakefield in 
Catardus, rector, and Lewes priory—tithes 
Addendum—a note on Emley 


Cri hoy. 


THE STYLES OF THE LORDS OF THE HONOUR 
AND NOTES ON THEIR OFFICIALS 


CORRIGENDA ET ADDENDA sits ov 

CORRIGENDA TO EARLY YORKSHIRE CHARTERS, VOLUMES 
V—VII 

INDEX OF SOURCES 2 

INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 

SUBJECT INDEX 


Xx1 


Page 


227 
228 
228 
229 
229 
229 
230 
231 
231 
232 
233 
233 


234 
235 
236 
236 
237 


238 


253 


254 
255 
257 
302 


LIST OF PLATES 


Conisborough castle pi ty - Frontispiece 

UB William de Warenne I and Gundreda—founda- 
tion of Lewes priory By: ree ue facing page 95 
Il. William de Warenne II to Lewes priory * - 66 
UKE William de Warenne II to Lewes priory bes i 70 
IV. William de Warenne II to Lewes priory Ae i 71 
V. William de Warenne IJ] to Lewes priory os Er 72 
VI. William de Warenne JI to Lewes priory bn ms 73 
at Gi William de Warenne LI—mandate a a Es 74 
VELL: William de Warenne [Il—notification .. a e 71> 
IX. William de Warenne II to Lewes priory a He 76 
ae William de Warenne LJI to Lewes priory ae a 84 
XI. William de Warenne IIL to Lewes priory 2 Py 87 
ALL: William de Warenne III to Lewes priory ve Me 91 
XII. Archbishop Theobald to countess Ala ae ra 96 
XIV. William fourth earl to Lewes priory .. se ye 99 
XV. Earl Hamelin—notification .. ds ng vA 102 
2, E Earl Hamelin to St. Katherine’s priory, Lincoln *, 118 
XVII. Earl Hamelin to Lewes priory xP Na i 119 
XVIJI. Earl Hamelin—mandate a, es “ Ls 123 
ike Earl Hamelin to Robert de Combe qe a ee 124 
XX. Countess Isabel to Richard de Combe rt Pa 128 
XXL. Elias de Bosville to Reginald de Warenne x a 158 
XXIL.. Robert Brito to Lewes priory ne i * 72 
XXIII. Robert son of Pain to Ranulf the chaplain oe Py 176 
XXIV. Samson de Wridlesford to William the clerk .. i 198 
XXV. Hubert Walter to Lewes priory ae ae op 202 


PEDIGREES AND MAPS 


Pedigree of the lords of the honour .. Ss .. facing page 1 
Map of the honour of Conisborough ah se S 137 
Pedigree of the family of Neufmarché “* .* page 141 


Map of the manor of Wakefield Pa a .. facing page 178 


PEDIGREE OF THE 
LORDS OF THE HONOUR 


facing p. 1 


(1) (2) 
Beatrix = RoDULF DE WARENNE= Emma 


[?] niece of living c. 1030-1074 
duchess Gunnor 
d. 1053-59 
wie A ee i a ee 
(1) | a is de Coul 
Rodulf de Warenne Gundreda= WILLIAM DE WARENNE=sister of daughter =Erneis de Coulances 
living 1074 sister of Ist earl Richard Guet 
Gerbod earl d. 1088 living 1098 
of Chester /\ 
A d. 1085 
| (Smee 
WILLIAM DE WARENNE= Isabel dau. of Rainald Gerard de= Edith Drew de Monchy 
2nd earl ‘| Hugh count of d. 1106-18 Gournay | | 
m. 1118 Vermandois, | 
d. 1138 wid. of Robert de Beaumont, ix /\ 
count of Meulan 
ae 
WILLIAM DE WARENNE= Ela dau. of Reginald = Alice dau. of Roger= Gundreda = William son of Ada= Henry son of 
3rd earl William Talvas, monk at Lewes William de Wormegay earl of Warwick | living 1166 Gilbert de Lancaster d. 1178 David I king of 
d. 1148 count of Ponthieu; 1178-79 living 1179 adel tos Scotland 
m. 2ndly Patrick Ralph | d. 1152 
earl of Salisbury; living 1147 iN Ke 
d. [?] 1174 
aCe es ale) a (1) (Cees eens 
WILLIAM of Blois=ISABEL =HAMELIN William de Warenne Peter de = William de= Gundreda = Geoffrey Hose Muriel 
4th earl d. c. 1203 son of of Wormegay Valognes Curcy LLL d. 1224 d. 1192-93 nun at 
d. 1159 Geoffrey of Anjou, d. 1208-09 d. 1160 deli7i Carrow 
5th earl N 
m. 1164 Alice= Peter the constable 
d. 1202 A living 1214 — alias de Melton 
(1 : 2 EN 5, (1) | (2) 
Maud [?}= WILLIAM DE WARENNE =Maud dau. of Robert = Ela= William FitzWilliam Robert de Lascy = Isabel= Gilbert de Laigle 
6th earl William Marshal, de Newburn d. 1219-24 d. 1193 d. 1234 d. 1231 
d. 1240 earl of Pembroke, 
wid. of Hugh Bigod, (1) | (2) 
| earl 2 cpio \ Henry count of Eu= Maud = Henry d’ Estouteville 
| d. [?] 1190-91 dy [2] 1228 living 1228 
A 


/\ 


CHAPTER I. 


THE EARLY GENERATIONS 
OF THE FAMILY OF WARENNE 


The family derived its name from the hamlet of Varenne,! 
about two miles south of Arques and about thirteen miles north 
of Bellencombre, on the river Varenne, in the department of 
Seine-Inférieure in Normandy.2? The earliest occurrence of the 
name is in a charter of Robert I, duke of Normandy, confirming 
the foundation of the abbey of St. Amand at Rouen, which can 
be dated c. 1030-1035.3 It may have existed, however, at an earlier 
date, as a Roger son of Ralph de Warethna was among those who 
subscribed to a charter in favour of the abbey of St. Wandrille, 
which is not likely to have been issued later than 1045.* There is 
reason to suppose that this Roger de Warenne was connected 
with Arques; and, although there is no evidence for any relation- 
ship which may have existed between him or his father Ralph and 
Rodulf de Warenne I,®> who heads the ensuing pedigree, it is 
probable on chronological grounds that Roger and Rodulf were 
of the same generation. 


RODULF DE WARENNE I. The charter of duke Robert, c. 
1030-1035, mentioned above, shows that he was holding land in 
the neighbourhood of the abbey of the Holy Trinity at Rouen, 
which lay outside the then existing city wall to the east. In the 
year in which duke William married (1053), described as ‘quidam 
miles de Warenna, Radulfus nomine,’ he gave to the abbey of St. 
Pierre de Préaux, with the consent of his wife Beatrix, all that he 
had in Vascceuil, dept. Eure, which appears to have been on the 
ducal demesne; among the witnesses being his brother Godfrey.® 


1 The usual Latin form is either Warenna or Warennia; see Chapter V. 

2 Most of the details given here and in the account of Rodulf de Warenne 
L and his son Rodulf II are taken from Mr. L. C. Loyd’s paper, ‘The Origin 
of the Family of Warenne’ in Y.A.J., xxxi, pp. 97-113, or (for Roger de 
Warenne) from his ‘Note on the Relationship between the Families of Mor- 
timer and Warenne’, forming Appendix A to The Complete Peerage, new ed., . 
vol. ix, where full documentary references and reasons for the various 
conclusions and suggestions are given. In those papers certain theories 
which have been advanced in the past are proved to be fallacious. 

3 Text in Mon. Ang., vi, 1101. 

4 The charter is noticed, with a list of the subscriptions, in Complete 
Peerage, loc. cit., p. 5. 

5 In Y.A.J., xxxi, 98n, it is pointed out that for him Rodulfus seems to 
be the correct form; and it is added that it is by no means clear whether 
Rodulfus and Radulfus were originally distinct names. 

° Text pd. by T. Stapleton in his paper ‘Observations in disproof of the 
pretended marriage of William de Warren. . .’ in Arch. Journal, vol. iit 
(1846), p. 11. 


2 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Before May 1055, described as Rodulfus Warethne, he sold lands 
in the neighbourhood of Rouen to the abbey of the Holy Trinity, 
among those who subscribed to the instrument being his wife 
Beatrix!; and in 1059, described as Rodulfus de Warenna, with 
his [second] wife Emma, he sold to the same house four churches 
in the pays de Caux.? It was probably in or about the following 
year that he consented to a sale of tithe and land to the same 
house by his tenant Hugh de Flamanville, among the subscriptions 
to his consent being his wife Emma and his sons Rodulf and 
Wilham. In 1074, with the same subscriptions, he made a gift to 
the same house of another church and tithe in the pays de Caux.? 

There are strong reasons for supposing that Rodulf’s first 
wife Beatrix was a niece of duchess Gunnor, wife of duke Richard 
I*, and that she was the mother of his two sons? : 

(1) Rodulf de Warenne II. The details of a feodary of 
1210-20 show that certain lands known to have been held by his 
father, both in the pays de Caux and near Rouen, then formed 
part of the barony of Esneval; and a comparison with the return 
of knights’ fees in Normandy in 1172 shows that at that date 
they were already in the possession of Robert d’Esneval. It is likely, 
therefore, that Rodulf II left issue, and that before 1172 the 
Esneval family acquired in marriage with his heiress the lands 
which he had inherited from his father. 

(2) William de Warenne; see below. 

(3) A daughter who married Erneis de Coulances and had 
two sons: (i) Richard, lord of Coulances near Vire, a benefactor 
of the abbey of St. Evroul; by his wife Adelaisa he had fifteen 
children, and died 15 Sept. 1125; and (ii) Roger, described by 
Orderic as son of Erneis de Coulances and nephew of William earl 
of Surrey, and also named Roger de Guarenna, who was a monk at 
St. Evroul in 1081 and passed, forty-six years there.® 


WILLIAM DE WARENNE, first earl of Surrey, younger son of 
Rodulf de Warenne. In his death-bed speech reported by Orderic 
king William I recorded that after the banishment of Roger de 
Mortemer in 1054 and his reconciliation shortly afterwards: the 


1 Note to charter no. 1 in Chapter II below; Roger son of the bishop, 
i.e. Roger son of Hugh bishop of Coutances, was described as his particeps 
et coheves; but their relationship, which was not that of brothers, has not 
been determined (see 1b7d.). : 

2 Ibid. 3 Charter:no. 1. 

‘ This is based on the following passage, pd. in Complete Peerage, 
loc. cit., p. 4, from William de Jumiéges, bk. viii, c. 37, ed. Marx, p. 328 : 
‘Neptes vero plures predicta Gunnor habuit, sed solummodo de quinque, 
quibus maritis nupserint, audivi. Una itaque earum matrimonio copulata 
est patri primi Willelmi de Warenna; ex qua natus est idem Willelmus, 
postea comes Surreiae, et Rogerius de Mortuo Mari, frater ipsius.. .’ 
Although the reference to Roger de Mortemer is certainly a mistake,. there 
seems no reason to doubt the statement about William de Warenne’s 
mother—a statement which is supported by the degree of relationship 
between William de Warenne II and a daughter of king Henry I examined 
in Appendix A below. 

* On this point see the note to charter no. 1. 

6 Orderic, ed. Le Prévost, ii, 396; iii, pp. 12, 16-18. 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 3 


lands which were restored to him did not include the castle of 
Mortemer [-sur-Eaulne], which was given by the duke to William 
de Warenne, Roger’s kinsman.1 Among other possessions in 
Normandy held by him or his descendants was Bellencombre, 
dept. Seine-Inférieure, arr. Dieppe, with its castle and lands in the 
neighbourhood, which he probably acquired at the same time;? 
and it was Bellencombre which became the caput of the Warenne 
honour in Normandy.? 

He is named among the men of first importance in Nor- 
mandy who supported duke William in his plan for the invasion; 
and was present at the battle of Hastings.* 

He was given lands in England which at the Domesday 
survey extended over thirteen counties.® Of these the more 
important were most of the rape of Lewes in Sussex, for the re- 
mainder of which he was apparently granted several manors in 
Norfolk, Suffolk and Essex®; the extensive manor of Conisborough 
in Yorkshire’; and Castle Acre and a large number of holdings 
in Norfolk, several of which had formerly been held by Frederic,* 
who can be identified as a brother of his wife Gundreda.? 

In 1067 he was among those whom the king left in charge of 
English affairs on his departure for Normandy.'? He appears to 
have been at Rouen in 1074, as he can be identified with William, 
younger son of Rodulf de Warenne, who was present with his 
father at the abbey of Holy Trinity in that year." In 1075, being a 
joint justiciar with Richard de Clare in England, he summoned 
the earls of Hereford and Norfolk to the king’s court; and, on their 
refusal, took a principal share in crushing their rebellion.” In the 

1 Ovderic, iii, 237. For Roger de Mortemer see Complete Peerage, new 
ed., ix, 266; and for the relationship, the exact nature of which has not been 
discovered, ibid., App. A; see also the note to charter no. | below. 

2 Y.A.J., xxxi, 110, where the lands are specified in detail, with another 
group to the north-west in the neighbourhood of Dieppe. Mr. Loyd suggested 
that William also held a small interest representing a younger son’s share 
of the paternal inheritance. 

3 For a note.on the scanty remains of the castle see Y.A.J., xxxii, 150. 

4 Orderic, ii, pp. 121-2, 148; William of Poitiers in Scriptores Rerum 
Gestarum Willelmi Conquestoris, ed. Giles, p. 135. 

5 Cos. Bedford, Buckingham, Cambridge, Huntingdon, Lincoln, Oxford, 
York; and Berkshire, Essex, Hampshire, Norfolk, Suffolk and Sussex. In 
Surrey he was not among the tenants-in-chief. In Shropshire he held of earl 
Roger de Montgomery the important holding of Weston [Whitchurch], 
assessed at 74 hides and valued at 101. (D.B., i, 257); see the account of the 
Warennes of Whitchurch in §3 below. 

6 H.K.F., iii, pp. 297-8; V.C.H. Sussex,vii, 1; and cf. V.C.H. Norfolk, ii, 18. 

7 For the details see Chapter III below. 

8 About seventeen are described as ‘de feudo Fedrici’ out of a total 
of over a hundred and sixty holdings in Norfolk; and about forty-five as of 
the exchange or of the castlery of Lewes. 

9 See Appendix A at the end of this Chapter. 

10 Ovderic, ii, 167. 

41 Charter no. |. 

12 Ovderic, ibid., p. 262. For Richard de Clare see Round’s article in 
D.N.B., x, 389; and for the two earls Complete Peerage, new ed., vi, 449; 
and ix, 573. In the second of two letters from Lanfranc to the Conqueror 
it is stated that William de Warenne was among those who occupied Norwich 
castle after its surrender (Davis, Regesta, nos. 81-2). 


4 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


period 1083-85 he was fighting for the king in the campaign in 
Maine, and was wounded at the siege of the castle of Sainte- 
Suzanne. 

In the spring of 1088 he supported William Rufus against the 
rebel leaders Odo bishop of Bayeux and Robert count of Mortain;? 
and it is recorded that he was wounded at the siege of Pevensey 
and taken to Lewes, where he died, and was buried by the side 
of his wife in the priory there. A charter issued by the king to 
Lewes priory after William de Warenne’s death can be dated with 
some confidence as in the summer of 10881; and the date of his 
death can be accepted as 24 June in that year.® 

He founded the priory at Lewes as a daughter house of the 
abbey of Cluny, c, 1078-1082°; and not later than 1085 established 
monks from there in his castle at Castle Acre with a view to 
founding a priory as a dependency of Lewes, making a donation 
of the church of Acre and 2 carucates of land.” He is probably the 
William de Warenne who gave to the abbey of Holy Trinity, Caen, 
the service of lands in Calvados.® 

It can be suggested that he was created earl of Surrey by 
William Rufus in the spring of 1088. There are, indeed, two 
points involved: first, whether he was created an earl, and, 
secondly, the date. On the first of these it might be supposed that, 
as William Rufus did not describe him with a comital style in a 
charter confirming Heacham to Lewes priory issued after his 
death,? he had never been created an earl; but this is far from 
conclusive, as it may merely have repeated the donor’s name as 
given in a charter issued before his creation as an earl. Moreover, 
apart from the traditions at Lewes and Castle Acre,!° the charter 
of Ralph, archbishop of ‘eae issued to Lewes priory in 


1 Orderic, ili, 199. 4 Ibhid., p. 273. 

* Chron. Mon. de Hida, app. to Lib. Mon. de Hyda, Rolls Ser., p. 299. 
Although the Hyde chronicler is not regarded as of first-rate authority, this 
circumstantial account, suggesting a contemporary basis, can be trusted. 
The siege of Pevensey started soon after Easter, 16 April, and lasted six 
weeks (Freeman, William Rufus, i, pp. 32, 74). 

* Charter no. 5. 

° This is the date given in the Lewes Chartulary, f. 105V (S.R.S., ii, 15). 
It is not likely that the day of the month, presumably based on an obit for 
the founder, can be wrong; and the cumulative evidence suggests that the 
year 1088 is correct. Dugdale (Baronage, i, 74) gave 24 June 1089, and was 
followed in Complete Peerage, 1st ed., vii, 325; but 1088 was preferred in the 
subsequent accounts in D.N.B., lix, 373; and H.K.F., iii, 299. Actually 
Dugdale also gives the year 1 Will. Rufi, i.e. 1088. 

® Charter no. 2. 

7 Castle Acre Chartulary, Harl. MS. 2110, f. 2; the second earl con- 
firming the 2 car. which his father and mother gave the monks; see more fully 
in the note to charter no. 22, where it is noted that the priory was founded 
on its new site while Herbert was bp of Norwich (1091-1119). In 1146-47 
the third earl confirmed the gifts made by his grandfather (the first earl) 
of the church of Acre and 2 car. there (ibid., f. 3V). 

8 Cal. Docs. France, no. 439. The places named, Anisy and two others, 
are a considerable distance from his other lands in Normandy. 

° Charter no. 5. 

10 Lewes Chartulary, f. 105V (S.R.S., ii, 15); Castle Acre Chartulary, 
f. 1 (Mon. Ang., v, 49). 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 5 


1121, of which the original exists,! has the phrase ‘concessa . 
a comitibus Suthregie Willelmo primo et Willelmo secundo deuotis 
ipsius monasterii fundatoribus’; and this appears to remove all doubt. 

On the second point, although William de Warenne witnessed 
several of the Conqueror’s charters without the comital style,’ 
there are three to which his name is given as a witness as ‘comes 
de Warenna’ or ‘comes Warenne.’ These were all issued in favour 
of Battle abbey,’ and it is generally agreed that their authenticity 
cannot be accepted. The fact that he is not described as ‘comes’ 
in the Domesday survey makes it reasonably certain that he had 
not been created an earl by 1086; nor is there any trustworthy 
evidence to suggest that his earldom was a creation by the Con- 
queror.> On the other hand the Hyde chronicler, describing the 
entry of the count of Mortain and the bishop of Bayeux into 
Rochester and Pevensey in their rebellion against William Rufus, 
gives a detailed description of William de Warenne, and says that 
after the magnates and the army were wavering the king made him 
an earl.6 That would fix the date as later than Easter (16 April), 
10887; and it conforms with the statement of Orderic that William 
Rufus after the council at Winchester (Easter, 1088) made William 
de Warenne earl of Surrey, and that the latter died shortly after- 
wards.® It is probable that with the earldom he was given lands 
at Reigate in Surrey.’ 

He married, first, Gundreda sister of Gerbod earl of Chester,?° 
who died in child-birth at Castle Acre on 27 May 1085, and was 
buried in the chapter-house at Lewes; and, secondly, a sister of 
Richard Guet, who described as ‘frater comitisse Warenne’ gave 
the manor of Cowyk [Cowick Bury, Essex], to Bermondsey abbey 
in 1098.12 It is recorded that after the earl’s death his widow 


' Charter no. 10. 

2 Davis, Regesta, nos. 105, 147, 149-50, 177, 212; and charter no. 4 below. 

3 Mon. Ang., iii, 245; Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1429-36, p. 172; Davis, op. cit., 
nos. 62, 113, 260. 

4 Round in his ‘Remarks’ in Complete Peerage, \st ed., vii, 322n. Free- 
man (Norman Conquest, 2nd ed., iv, pp. 8, 398m) had previously shown the 
suspicious character of the alleged foundation charter. 

5 Cf. Round, loc. cit. 

6 Chron. Mon. de Hida, ut sup., p. 298; ‘comitis honore sublimat.’ 

7 Freeman, William Rufus, i, 32. 

8 Orderic, iii, 317. In an earlier passage (ii, 221), which however is not 
free from inaccuracies, he states that the Conqueror ‘dedit Sutregiam’ to 
William de Warenne; but, even if true, that need not mean that he was made 
earl of Surrey. 9 V.C.H. Surrey, i, 340. 10 See Appendix A. 

11 Following Lewes Chartulary, f. 107V (S.R.S., ii, 18). 

12 Bermondsey Annals in Ann. Mon., Rolls Ser., iii, 429. In 1086 
Richard, with whom Richard Guet can be identified, held 3 hides in Cowick 
and other lands in Essex of William de Warenne (H.K.F., iii, 409). Farrer 
gave details of a Goet family who held land in Essex of the honour of Warenne 
in a place held by Richard (Guet] in 1086 (bid., pp. 298, 406-7). There 
appears to be no proof of any connexion between Richard Guet and the 
family of Gouet, lords of Montmirail, dept. Sarthe; see Complete Peerage 
new ed., xi, app. p. 116”, where the possibility is suggested that Richard 
may have been a son of William Guiet who witnessed a charter for the abbey 
of St. Wandrille in company with Roger son of Ralph de Warethna not later 
than 1045 (cf. p. 1 above). 


6 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


offered the sum of 100s. to the monks of Ely, who refused to accept 
uA 

By Gundreda his wife William de Warenne had issue : 

(1) William, the second earl. 

(2) Rainald de Warenne.? It is recorded that on his death- 
bed William de Warenne by the king’s decree made his two sons his 
heirs ‘Willelmum videlicet in Anglia et Reginaldum in Flandria.’ 
In 1090 Rainald led the assault on Rouen in support of William 
Rufus against duke Robert. In 1105 he supported the latter 
against king Henry; and in the following year, having defended 
the castle of Saint-Pierre-sur-Dives for the duke, was captured 
by the king. He was set free shortly before the battle of Tin- 
chebrai, 28 Sept. 1106.6 There appears to be no evidence that he 
was alive at a later date; and he was certainly dead in 1118, for by 
a charter issued for the soul of Rainald his brother and his other 
relations deceased the second earl gave to Lewes priory six churches, 
all of which were included in Henry I’s confirmation charter issued 
between the extreme limits of 1107 and 1118.’ 

(3) Edith, who married Gerard de Gournay son of Hugh de 
Gournay, lord of Gournay-en-Bray and a tenant-in-chief in Essex 
in 1086, by his wife Basilia daughter of Gerard Fleitel.* Edith 
had as her maritagium one of the manors in Mapledurham, co. 
Oxford, where her father held 7 hides in 1086; this manor descended 
in the Gournay family until it passed by marriage with Juliana de 
Gournay to William Bardolf of Wormegay, the younger, who at his 
death in 1289 held it in her right of earl de Warenne by the service 
of one knight’s fee.* Gerard, who gave Lessingham, co. Norfolk, 
to the abbey of Le Bec,!° was a supporter of William Rufus in 1090 
against duke Robert in Normandy; and took part in the crusade of 


1 H.K.F., iii, 298, citing Hist Eliensis, p. 255. Dugdale (Baronage, 
i, 74) gave the details from an Ely MS. of the story how the abbot of Ely 
heard the earl’s cry at the time of his death, calling for mercy for his crime 
in detaining certain lands of the abbey, and how about four days after his 
death a messenger came with the offer from his widow for the good of his 
soul, which the monks refused to accept, not thinking it. safe to take the 
money of a damned person. Dugdale (and similarly Watson in Memoirs, 
i, 65) discredited the story on the ground that the earl’s wife had pre- 
deceased him; but they wére unaware of his second marriage. 

2 Orderic (vol. iii, p. 318) mentions William and Rainald as Gundreda’s 
sons; but the suggestion there that Gundreda survived her husband is in- 
correct. 

3 Chron. Mon. de Hida, ut sup., p. 299. If Flanders is correct it may refer 
to an inheritance of Gundreda; see Appendix A below. 

4 Orderic, iii, pp. 352-3. 

5 Ibid., iv, pp. 203, 222-3. 

© Ibid., p. 229. 

7 Charter no. 15 and note thereto; see also the note to no. 19. 

8 For the family see D. Gurney, Record of the House of Gournay, 
1845-58; and subsequent accounts in Beds. Hist. Rec. Soc., vii, pp. 153-7; 
and H.K.F., iii, pp. 420-3. ; 

9 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 772. For the descent of the manor known as 
Mapledurham Gurney, besides the references in H.K.F., see the full account 
in A. H. Cooke, The Early History of Mapledurham, Oxfordshire Rec. Soc. 
vol. vii. 


10 Miss M. Morgan, The English Lands of the Abbey of Bec, p. 148. 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 7 


1096.1 Subsequently Edith accompanied him on a pilgrimage to 
Jerusalem, on which he died not earlier than 1104; she then 
married Drew de Monchy, by whom she had a son Drew the 
younger.” 

The heir of Gerard de Gournay and his wife Edith was their 
son Hugh de Gournay; and among other children they had a 
daughter Gundreda, named after her grandmother Gundreda de 
Warenne, who married Nigel d’Aubigny as his second wife in 
June 1118, and was the mother of Roger de Mowbray.’ It was due 
to her in her widowhood that in 1142-43 her son gave to the 
monks at Hood the vill of Old Byland, to which they were then 
transferred.4 


WILLIAM DE WARENNE, second earl of Surrey. In 1090 he 
was among those fighting in Normandy against Robert de Belléme 
who was supported by duke Robert.® Shortly after 1093 he un- 
successfully sought the hand of Maud daughter of Malcolm III, 
king of Scotland, who was afterwards the first wife of king Henry 
I.6 He is described as William earl of Surrey in a confirmation 
charter to Lewes priory issued by Henry I at his instance in 1100;7 
and as William ‘comes de Warenna’ he witnessed three charters 
of the king at Windsor on 3 Sept. 1101.8 Later in the autumn he 
accompanied duke Robert to Normandy, supporting him against 
the king, and was deprived of his inheritance in England.® In 1103, 
however, as a result of the duke’s intercession, he was restored to 
the earldom of Surrey by the king, to whom thereafter he remained 
faithful.° In 1106 he accompanied the king to Normandy, and 
commanded a division of his army at the battle of Tinchebrai."! 
In 1109 he was present ‘in concilio totius Anglie’ at Nottingham;” 
and on 17 May in the following year was with the king at Dover, 
becoming a surety for the performance of the treaty with Robert 
count of Flanders.4% In 1111 he was one of the optimates who 
acted in a judicial capacity in a plea in Normandy; and about that 
time he was given by the king the castle of Saint-Saens, which had 
been forfeited by Elias de Saint-Saens.'® In 1119 he commanded a 

1 Gurney, op. cit., pp. 65-7, citing William de Jumiéges, bk. viii, c. 8. 

2 Ibid., pp. 69, 81, citing the same. 

3 Complete Peerage, new ed., ix, 369, citing the same. 

_ 4 E.Y.C., iii, no. 1833, and p. 445. 

5 Orderic, iii, 362. 6 Ibid., p. 400. 

7 Original charter, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. iii, no. 2; Foedera (Rec. Comm.), 
00 Farrer, Itinerary of Henry I, no. 7, where it is dated 23 Sept.-25 Dec. 

8 Mon. Ang., ii, 267; iv, pp. 16-7; Farrer, op. cit., nos. 25, 26, 28. 

9 Orderic, iv, pp. 104, 110, 116. . 

10 Tbid., pp. 161-3. 11 Ibid., pp. 225, 229. 

12 Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1341-1417, p. 454; Farrer, op. cit., nos. 230-1. 

13 Lib. Niger Scaccarii, ed. Hearne, i, 23; Foedera, i, 6. For the date see 
Farrer, op. cit., no. 257; and cf. Freeman, Norman Conquest, v. 850. This 
‘was the second of the treaties with count Robert. 

14 Haskins, Norman Institutions, p. 92, giving the text of a document 
in the archives of Seine-Inférieure; he is styled ‘Willelmus comes Warenne.’ 

15 Ovderic, iv, 292. It was restored to the descendant of Elias in the 
time of Henry II (Stapleton, Rot. Scacc. Norm., i, p. ciii). 


8 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


division at the battle of Brémule;! and was present in 1131 at 
the council at Northampton, being one of the five earls who 
witnessed the king’s charter to the church of Salisbury on that 
occasion.2 He was one of the earls present at king Henry’s death 
on 1 Dec. 1135 at Lyons-la-Forét.2 In the same month he was 
given the administration of the region of Rouen and the pays de 
Caux:4 and was present at king Stephen’s court at Easter, Li36; 
He was living in 1137;° and probably died on 11 May 1138.7 He 
was buried at his father’s feet in the chapter-house at Lewes.® 

His name frequently occurs among the witnesses to charters. 
He witnessed a charter of Osmund, bishop of Salisbury, issued at 
Hastings in the king’s presence in 1091; and one of Robert duke of | 
Normandy to St. Stephen’s, Caen, 1101-04.*° The large number of 
charters issued by Henry I, which were witnessed by him after 
1103, shows his frequent attendance on the king both in England 
and Normandy.1! 


1 Ovyderic, iv, 357; Chron. Mon. de Hida, ut sup., pp. 316-7, giving his 
speech to the king before the battle, in which he remonstrated against any 
suspicion of his fidelity. 

2 Round, Geoffrey de Mandeville, p. 265, citing Sarum Charters, 
Rolls Ser., pp. 6, 7. 3 Orderic, v, 50. 4 Tbid., p. 52 

5 Geoffrey de Mandeville, pp. 262-3. In*1136 he witnessed Stephen’s 
charter to the church of Exeter, as ‘Willelmus comes de Sudreia’ (Hist. MSS. 
Comm., Various Collections, iv, 44). 

© When his eldest son was described as ‘Guillelmus juvenis de Guarenna’ 
(Orderic, v, 85). 

7 The statement of Orderic (iv, 163) that he lived for 33 years after 
1103 would put his death in 1136-37; and Robert de Torigni (Chron., p. 131) 
enters him with those dying in 1136, though the deaths of two others in his 
list certainly did not take place until 1137. On the other hand there is a 
detailed statement in the Lewes Chartulary, f. 105V (S.R.S., ii, 15) that he 
died on 11 May 1138, the 50th year of his earldom being unfinished, con- 
tinuing through the time of king William IL for 13 years and the time of 
king Henry for 36 years and the time of king Stephen for 3 years. Although 
several details in the narrative accounts of the earls in the Chartulary are 
inaccurate, a consistent statement of this kind can be trusted; its evidence 
thereon was accepted in Complete Peerage, \st ed., vii, 326, and subsequently 
in D.N.B., lix, 374. 

8 Lewes Chartulary, loc. cit. 

9 Mon. Ang., vi, 1295; Davis, Regesta, no. 319; ‘signum comitis Willelmi 
de Warenna.’ 

10 Cal. Docs. France, no. 451; Farrer, op. cit., no. 74; text in Haskins, 
Norman Institutions, p. 286, no. 3. He is styled ‘Willelmus comes de Warenna.’ 
The date must be earlier than Aug. 1104 when two other witnesses, Eustace 
de Breteuil and Robert de Montfort, joined king Henry (Orderic, iv, 199). 

11 There are upwards of fifty calendared in Farrer, op. cit. In the majority 
the style is ‘Willelmus comes de Warenna’ or ‘comes Warenn(e]’; and the 
style of earl of Surrey only occurs in about four. There are about seventeen 
in Round, Cal. Docs. France, included by Farrer; of these more than three- 
quarters have the usual style; two (nos. 5, 994) have ‘Willelmus de Warenna 
comes’; one (no. 723) ‘comes Willelmus de Warenna’; one (no. 1417) ‘Willel- 
mus consul de Warenna’; and the Surrey style does not occur. There is a 
facsimile of a charter of Henry I witnessed by ‘Willelmo comite Warenn{[e],’ 
issued at Rouen 1133-35, in Reg. Antiquissimum, Linc. Rec. Soc., i, no. 52 
(plate V). 

It can be noted that there are seven charters of Henry I available in 
print in which his name appears simply as William de Warenna without the 
comital style (see Appendix B below). 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 9 


_ At a date not later than 1121? his possessions in Yorkshire, 
where he held the honour of Conisborough as an inheritance from 
his father, were increased by the gift of the extensive manor of 
Wakefield which had been in the king’s hand at the Domesday 
survey. On the other hand the tenure of Kimbolton, co. Hunting- 
don, held by his father in 1086, and his father’s interest in Dean, 
co. Bedford, passed to William Meschin before 1130 at the latest; 
and it is probable that his father’s interest in Trumpington, co. 
Cambridge, which at a later date formed part of the honour of 
Skipton, passed to William Meschin at the same time.? It is possible 
that these interests were the subject of an exchange when other 
lands such as the manor of Wakefield were acquired. 

The collection of his charters printed in the next chapter 
includes confirmations and gifts which he made to Lewes, Castle 
Acre? and Wymondham priories in England, and to the abbeys 
of St. Evroul and St. Amand, Rouen, and the priories of Longue- 
ville and Bellencombre in Normandy. It was partly with his advice 
that Luffield priory, co. Northampton, was founded by his step- 
son Robert earl of Leicester.4 He married® shortly after the 
death of her first husband on 5 June 1118 Isabel, called also 
Elizabeth, daughter of Hugh count of Vermandois, younger son of 
king Henry I of France. Her first husband was Robert de Beau- 
mont, count of Meulan, lord of Beaumont-le-Roger and Pont 
Audemer in Normandy and of lands in England chiefly in cos. 
Warwick and Leicester;* and by him she was the mother of three 
sons and four or five daughters.? The two eldest sons, twins born 
in 1104, were Waleran, count of Meulan and earl of Worcester,’ and 
Robert earl of Leicester. She survived her second husband, William 
de Warenne; and after his death, with the consent of her son the 
third earl, gave the church of Dorking to Lewes priory.” The terms of 
a charter issued by the third earl suggest that she died in his 
lifetime.° 


1 See the note to charter no. 9, and the Introduction to Chapter LY. 

2 E.Y.C., vii, pp. 50-2, 109-10. 

3 He transferred the monks established by his father in the castle 
there to their new site in the period 1091-1119 (see p. 4 above). 

4 Mon. Ang., iv, 348; ‘per consilium et laudem comitis de Guarenna et 
Nigelli de Albineio et Gualerani fratris mei comitis de Mellent.’ The date is 
not later than 1129 when Nigel d’Aubigny died (Complete Peerage, new ed., 
ix, 369). . 

5 His endeavour to marry Maud of Scotland has been mentioned in the 
text above. A reference to the proposal that he should marry a daughter of 
king Henry I, to which abp Anselm objected, is given in Appendix A below. 

6 Complete Peerage, new ed., vii, pp. 523-6. He is said to have become 
earl of Leicester, but was never so styled. 7 Ibid., p. 526n. 

8 For him and his descendants see ibid., p. 737 (App. I); and for his 
career in greater detail Mr. G. H. White in RF. Hist. Soc. Transactions, 4th 
ser., xvii, pp. 19-48. 

9 Lewes Chartulary, f. 18¥ (S.R.S., i, 29). In one of the narrative 
accounts in the same (ii, 18) it is stated that she died 13 Feb. 1131 in the 
seventh year before her husband. More trustworthy evidence from another 
source shows that her obit was observed on 17 Feb. (Complete Peerage, new 
ed., vii, 526m); and the year 1131 is clearly wrong. Cf. also charter no, 35 
below. 10 Charter no. 41. 


10 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


By Isabel his wife William de Warenne, the second earl, 
had issue : 

(1) William, the third earl. 

(2) Ralph de Warenne. With William his brother he was a 
joint donor in charters issued by his parents;! and he witnessed his 
father’s charter to Longueville priory.2 He witnessed charters of his 
brother the third earl in a position senior to his brother Rainald, in 
one of which, issued in 1147, he is mentioned in connexion with the 
livery of seisin;? and others in the period 1138-47,4. The theory 
which has been advanced that he was the ancester of the Warennes 
of Whitchurch, Shropshire, and which is unlikely to be correct, 
will be examined in §3 below. ri 

(3) Rainald or Reginald de Warenne. For him see the 
account of the Warennes of Wormegay in §2. 

(4) Gundreda, described as uterine sister of Waleran count 
of Meulan.® She married, first, Roger who had succeeded his father 
Henry de Beaumont as earl of Warwick in 1119;® and, secondly, 
after Roger’s death on 12 June 1153,’ William son of Gilbert de 
Lancaster as his second wife. By her first husband she had issue 
William and Waleran, successively earls of Warwick, and two 
daughters Margaret® and Gundreda. 

Before 1156 William de Lancaster, with the assent of Gun- 
dreda his wife and of William his son and heir, gave to the abbey 
of St. Mary de Pré, Leicester, the manor and church of Cockerham, 
co. Lancaster;? and not earlier than 1156 he’ added common of 
pasture throughout his fee in Lonsdale and Amounderness. The 
latter gift was recorded in a charter issued with the assent of 
William his son and heir and of Gundreda his wife, for the souls of 
Gilbert his father, Goditha his mother, Jordan his son, and 
Margaret daughter of the countess, the first two witnesses being 
William his son and heir and Gundreda daughter of the countess."° 
It is clear that these two daughters of the countess were his wife's 
two daughters, Margaret then dead and Gundreda then living.” 

1 Charters nos. 20, 23, 29. 2 Charter no. 28. 

3 Charters nos. 32, 33, 34, 45. Also another.to Lewes priory (Chartulary, 
f. 33V; S.R.S., i, 63), certainly issued by the third earl, and also the charter 
of Ralph de Plaiz which it confirmed (Chartulary, f. 115V; S.R.S., 11, 37). 
; * Charters nos. 44, 46. 

> Chron. Robert de Torigni, p. 172. This proves that she was the dau. 
of William de Warenne II by his wife Isabel. 
6 For this date, and not 1123,which is usually given, see Handbook of Brit- 
ish Chronology, R. Hist. Soc., p. 336 and the documentary evidence given there. 

7 For Roger earl of Warwick see Complete Peerage, 1st ed., viii, 53. 
He must have been several years older than his wife, who canot have been 
born before 1119 at the earliest. 
_ 8 She was doubtless so named after her grandmother Margaret, dau. of 
Geoffrey count of Mortagne and wife of Henry earl of Warwick. 

° Farrer, Lancs. Pipe Rolls and Early Charters, p. 391, nos. 2 and 3. 

10 Tbid., p. 392, no. 4. The younger William was William de Lancaster’s 
son and heir by his first wife. ; 

‘1 Farrer, ibid., pp. 390, 394, proposed the theory that William de Lancaster 
married the younger Gundreda, and not her mother; but the terms of this 
charter make such a theory impossible; had he done so his wife would not 
have appeared in the witness clause as Gundreda ‘daughter of the countess.’ 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 11 


The evidence is reasonably conclusive that the younger 
Gundreda was the lady of that name who married Hugh Bigod, 
earl of Norfolk, as his second wife.1 She had two sons Hugh and 
William, and after the death of her husband early in 1177 appears 
- to have claimed the earldom for the elder to the exclusion of Roger 
Bigod, her husband’s heir by his first wife. She was the foundress 
of Bungay priory, c. 1188; and, having married, secondly, Roger 
de Glanville, died between 1200 and 1208.8 

The elder Gundreda was living in 1166, when she was holding 
Walton [? D’Eiville, co. Warwick] in dower of her son William 
earl of Warwick.4 

(5) Ada, also described as uterine sister of Waleran count of 
Meulan.* In 1139 she married Henry son of David I, king of 
Scotland from 1124 to 1153.6 Henry, who was born c. 1114, suc- 
ceeded as earl of Huntingdon on his father’s resignation in 1136, 
and became earl of Northumberland in 1139. He died v.p. 12 
June 1152, having had issue by Ada: 

(i) Malcolm, born 20 March 1141-2. He succeeded his 
grandfather as king of Scotland (Malcolm IV), 24 May 
1153; was earl of Huntingdon from 1157 until his death; 
and died unmarried 9 Dec. 1165. 

William, born 1143. On the death of his father the 
earldom of Northumberland was assigned to him by his 
grandfather king David, which he held from 1152 to 
1157, when it was surrendered to king Henry II. He 
succeeded his brother Malcolm as king of Scotland 
(William the Lion) in 1165; was earl of Huntingdon from 
1165 to 1174, and in 1185, having obtained a regrant of 
the earldom, resigned it to his brother David; and died 
4 Dec. 1214, being succeeded by his son Alexander II. 
Two of his charters, which he issued in his minority, 
show that he was then using his mother’s name of 
Warenne. In the first, which is printed at no. 101 in the 
present volume, being a confirmation charter to Nostell 
priory, he described himself as William de Warenne, 
son of Henry earl of Northumberland; and in the second 
(noted there), being a charter to Brinkburn priory, as 
William de Gwarenne, earl of Northumberland. 


(ii 


~~ 


1 
2 
*- J bsa. 
4 
> 


6 This and the following facts are mainly taken from the articles on 


kinswoman of the king of France. 


12 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


(iii) David, earl of Huntingdon in 1185. He died 17 June 
1219, being succeeded by his son John, afterwards also 
earl of Chester. 

(iv) Ada, who married Florence, count of Holland, in 1162. 

(v) Margaret, who married Conan, duke of Britanny and 

earl of Richmond, in 1160; and was the mother of 
Constance, duchess of Britanny and countess of Rich- 
mond. She married, secondly, Humphrey de Bohun, 
by whom she had issue; and died in 1201.7 

(vi) Maud, who died unmarried in 1152. 

The texts of several of Ada’s charters are available in print.® 

She died in 1178.8 

Besides the issue recorded-above the second earl had one, 
and possibly two other sons named Rainald or Reginald, presum- 
ably illegitimate. Rainald blundus and Rainald brunus, brothers 
of the [third] earl, witnessed the charter of Stephen son of Richard 
de Scalers giving the church of Caxton [co. Cambridge] to Lewes 
priory, and mentioning his lord William earl de Warenne; and 

Reginald de Warenne and Reginald brunus his brother issued a 

separate charter recording their testimony.* Moreover, the third 

earl made a gift to Castle Acre priory for the souls of his brother 

Rainald le Brun and of his own father and grandfather.® It is 

possible that Rainald blundus may be Rainald de Warenne of 

Wormegay, though of this there is no corroborative clue; but of 

Rainald brunus certainly nothing further is known. 


WILLIAM DE WARENNE, third earl of Surrey. He was prob- 
ably born in 1119. In June 1137, described as ‘Willelmus juvenis 
de Guarenna,’ he deserted from king Stephen’s army in Normandy.° 
He succeeded his father in the following year; and on 18 Dec. 
1138, as ‘Willelmus comes Warenne,’ brother of Waleran count of 
Meulan, was present with the latter at Rouen among the witnesses 
to an agreement.? He probably accompanied count Waleran to 
England in 1139; and in that year or early in 1140, as ‘Willelmus 
comes de Warenna,’ witnessed king Stephen’s confirmation 
charter to Alcester abbey. On 2 Feb. 1140-1 he was present 
on the king’s side at the battle of Lincoln, from which he fled in 
company with count Waleran.® He was one of the earls who 


1 E.Y.C., iv, 93; Complete Peerage, new ed., Vi, 457. 

2 See the references given in Lawrie, Annals of the Reigns of Malcolm 
and William, Kings of Scotland, pp. 221-2; and also those given in Complete 
Peerage, new ed., ix, 706n. 

3 Chronicle of Melrose, ut sup., p. 42. 

4 Lewes Chartulary, ff. 210V, 218; abst. in Cambridgeshire Portion, 
pp. 16, 25; and cf. S.R.S., i, introd. p. xviii. 

5 Castle Acre Chartulary, f. 2V; cited in S.R.S., foe. cet: 

6 Orvderic, v, 85. 

7 Haskins, Norman Institutions, p. 92; arising out of the plea of 1111 
(p. 7 above). 

8 Mon. Ang., iv, 176; for the date see White, loc. cit., p. 31, and Mrs. 
D. Styles, ‘The Early History of Alcester Abbey’ in Birmingham Arch. Soc., 
lxiv, 29. 

° Orderic, v, 128; Henry of Huntingdon, Rolls Ser., p. 273. 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 13 


supported the queen during the king’s captivity, and witnessed 
her charter to Coggeshall abbey, c. June 1141, at London? After 
the king’s release on 1 Nov. he witnessed charters which the 
king issued at Canterbury at Christmas 1141 and at Ipswich 
shortly afterwards.? In 1144 his mercenaries, fighting for the king 
in Normandy, surrendered the castle of Neufchatel-en-Brai.’ 
On Palm Sunday, 24 March 1145-6, he took the cross;> and started 
for the crusade in June 1147. On 19 Jan. 1147-8 he fell in the 
rearguard of the army of the king of France which was cut to 
pieces in the defiles of Laodicea.° 

The collection of his charters printed in the next chapter 
includes confirmations and gifts to Lewes, Castle Acre and Nostell 
priories; gifts to the priory of the Holy Sepulchre, Thetford, and 
the Templars; and a gift to St. Mary’s, York, of land and interests 
in Hatfield. . | 

He married Ela or Ala daughter of William Talvas, count of 
Ponthieu, son of Robert de Belléme.’? After his death she received 
a letter from archbishop Theobald, remonstrating with her for her 
non-payment of tithes to Lewes priory.* She married, secondly, 
probably not later than 1152,® Patrick earl of Salisbury, by whom 
she had issue William, who succeeded his father as earl of Salisbury 
in 1168, and three younger sons Patrick, Philip and Walter.}° 
She is said to have died 4 Oct. 1174.4 

By his wife Ela the third earl left an only daughter : 


ISABEL DE WARENNE, who married, first, William son of 
king Stephen, and, secondly, Hamelin an illegitimate son of Geoffrey 
count of Anjou and half-brother of king Henry II. During her 
first widowhood, 1159-64, she was sought in marriage by Wiliam 
a younger full brother of the king. William FitzStephen records 
that the marriage was opposed by archbishop Becket on the ground 
of consanguinity, to the unconsolable grief of William whose men 


1 Orderic, v, 130. 

2 Mon. Ang., v, 452; described as ‘comes Willelmus de Guarenna’; 
for the date see White, loc. cit., p. 35, who points out that the date 26 Dec. 
is that of the confirmation in 1325 (Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1300-26, p. 479). 

3 Round, Geoffrey de Mandeville, pp. 143, 158. 

+ Chron. Robert de Torignt, p. 148. 

5 Ibid., p. 192. 

6 G. W. Watson in Genealogist, xi, 132, citing (a) a letter of king 
Louis to Suger, abbot of St. Denis, in which he is described as ‘consanguineus 
noster comes de Guarenna’; and (b) the record of William archbishop of Tyre, 
describing him as ‘comes de Guarenna vir inter majores eximius.’ The 
relationship to king Louis was that of second cousins, the earl being through 
his mother a great-grandson of Henry I, king of France. 

7 Her son who succeeded as earl of Salisbury is described as ‘natus ex 
filia Guillelmi comitis Pontivi matre comitisse de Warenna’ (Chyon. Robert 
de Torigni, p. 236). 

8 Charter no. 48. 

9 Note thereto. 

10 For them see the notes to charters nos. 57, 80, 111. 
11 Genealogical notes in Lewes Chartulary, f. 107V (S.R.S., 1i, 18). 
See p. 14” below for the caution necessary in regard to these. 


14 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


became Becket’s enemies.! William died at Rouen on 30 Jan. 
1163-42 In a charter relating to Harthill, which can be dated in 
the same period, 1159-64, there is mention of an oath taken ‘coram 
Isabel comitissa War[ennie] domina nostra et coram paribus 
nostris’; the latter being the honorial peers. This charter, to which 
the first witness was ‘ipsa Isabel comitissa,’ shows that she was in 
personal possession of the honour. 

She survived her second husband, earl Hamelin,* who died 
7 May 1202; and, apparently between 8 and 22 July of that year, 
there is a reference to the pledges of the countess de Warenne ‘de 
facto pro quo ipsa capta est.’ She was living in April 1203, being 
engaged then and in the preceding term in pleas in Essex and 
Yorkshire.6 She was buried in the chapter-house at Lewes;’ and 
it is probable that, as her second husband was commemorated at 
Beauchief abbey (see below), she is the countess de Warenne who 
was commemorated there on 12 July.® 


WILLIAM DE BLoIs, a younger son of king Stephen. The 
date of his birth is not known, but the extreme limits of 1132-37 


1 Vita S. Thomae (Becket Materials, Rolls Ser., vol. ili), p. 142. The 
passage occurs in the account of Becket’s murder, describing how Richard 
Brito struck his blow with the words ‘Hoc habeas pro amore domini mei 
Willelmi fratris regis.’ The basis of the objection to the marriage was 
‘quoniam hic Willelmus ex matre imperatrice Mathilde, ille comes Warennae 
Willelmus ex patre rege Stephano, consobrinorum fuerant filii.’ William, 
Henry II’s brother, was a second cousin of William son of king Stephen, 
Isabel’s first husband. This relationship was, according to the canonical 
computation, one of the third degree of the first genus of affinity (Pollock 
and Maitland, Hist. English Law, 2nd ed., ii, 388). Hamelin, whom she 
afterwards married, had no such relationship. 

2 Chron. Robert de Torigni, p. 221. The story of William’s despair is 
confirmed by the contemporary authority of Etienne of Rouen, a monk of 
Le Bec, who records in his poem Draco Normannicus (Chron. Stephen, Hen. 
II and Ric. I, Rolls Ser., ii, 676) how William went to his mother in Nor- 
mandy, and then having visited Le Bec died shortly afterwards at Rouen. 
The acute stage of the affair can be placed not earlier than July 1163 (ibid., 
introd. pp. 1xi, Lxi). 

3 Charter nol: 

+ The statement that she died before her husband on 13 July 1199 
(cf. Dugdale, Baronage, i, 76, and Complete Peerage, Ist ed., vii, 326) is 
based on the genealogical notes in Lewes Chartulary, f. 107V (SIRS 1h 18); 
which on this point must be disregarded; indeed these notes, unless corro- 
borated by other evidence, are mainly of insufficient value to be regarded as 
authoritative, cf. p. 25 below. 

Apart from other evidence, e.g. the reference to her as alive when her son 
did homage (see below), in one of her charters (no. 86, originally made 
known by Watson in Memoirs, i, 169) there is the phrase ‘post obitum domini 
et viri mei Hamelini comitis Warennie’; and cf. nos. 85, 87. 

° Rot: Pat. pave: 

6 Curia Regis Rolls, ii, pp. 187, 234. This seems to be the latest refer- 
ence to her as being alive, and she probably died shortly afterwards, possibly 
on 12 July 1203. 


7 Lewes Chartulary, ut sup.; a point on which the notes can be 
trusted. 

8 S.O. Addy, Beauchief Abbey, p. 43; in view of the date of its foundation 
this cannot refer to an earlier countess; another countess, Maud (see below), 
was commemorated on 6 Feb. (zbid., p. 25). 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 15 


can be assumed.! In 1148 or not later than 1149? he became fourth 
earl de Warenne by virtue of his marriage to Isabel, the third earl’s 
daughter; and he held the lands of the honour of Warenne in her 
right. On the death of his elder brother Eustace in Aug. 1153 
he became count of Boulogne. 

In November of the same year, by the terms of the treaty at 
Winchester when it was agreed that Henry duke of Normandy 
should succeed to the crown of England on Stephen’s death, an 
ample provision was secured for William, the king’s son. The 
relevant clauses in the terms which were subsequently issued by 
the king at Westminster? are as follows : 


Willelmus autem filius meus ligium homagium et securitatem duci 
Normannie fecit et dux ei concessit ad tenendum de se omnes tenuras 
quas ego tenui antequam regnum Anglie adeptus essem sive in Anglia 
sive in Normannia sive in aliis locis et quicquid cum filia comitis War- 
rennie accepit sive in Anglia sive in Normannia et quicquid ad honores 
illos pertinet; et de omnibus terris et villis et burgis et redditibus quos 
dux in dominio suo inde nunc habet et nominatim de illis que pertinent 
ad honorem comitis Warenn’ Willelmum filium meum et homines 
ipsius qui de honore illo sunt plenarie saisiet et nominatim de castello de 
Belencumbre et Mortui maris; ita scilicet quod Reginaldus de Warenn’ 
castrum Belencumbre et castrum Mortui maris custodiet si voluerit et 
dabit inde duci obsides; si vero noluerit alii de ligiis hominibus comitis 
Warenn’ quos dux voluerit similiter per salvos obsides et salvam 
custodiam eadem castra custodient. 


ee ee 


1 His parents were married in 1125. His elder brother Eustace, who 
died in 1153, was old enough to witness a charter of king Stephen in 1137 
(Delisle, Rec. des Actes de Henri II, Introd., p. 119); and the date for the 
birth of Eustace given as 1140 in Handbook of British Chronology, p. 35, is 
an impossible one. Sir J. H. Ramsay in Foundations of England, ii, 457, 
suggested that Eustace was born c. 1129-31 and William c. 1134. Professor 
Tait in Mediaeval Manchester and the Beginnings of Lancashire, pp. 174-5, 
suggests that as the honour of Lancaster was in the king’s hand in July 1155, 
and as it does not appear in the Pipe Roll for 2 Hen. I1, William came of 
age shortly after July 1155, and that he was born c. 1134. 

2 In a charter issued by Reginald de Warenne, then administering 
the Warenne estates (no. 50 below), there is a reference to his lord ‘comes 
Willelmus filius regis,’ whose confirmation he undertook to obtain if God 
did not bring back the earl [t.e. the third earl]. This shows that William’s 
marriage to Isabel had already taken place. The date assigned for the 
charter is-1148 or soon after. The account given in the Lewes chartulary 
(f. 106; S.R.S., ii, pp. 15-6) states that the fourth earl died in 1159 in the 
eleventh year of his earldom, and this appears to be corroborated by the 
further details that he continued in the time of Stephen for six years and 
in that of Henry II for five years. 

3 This text, except where noted, is taken from a twelfth-century MS. 
belonging in 1891 to J. H. Gurney of Keswick Hall, nr. Norwich (now in 
the John Rylands Library at Manchester), and is pd. in Hist. MSS. Comm., 
12th Rep., App. ix, pp. 119-120, where it is collated with the later text pd. in 
Foedera, Rec. ed., i, 18, from Lib. Rub. Scacc., f. 164. The original is lost. 
There is also a pd. text in Delisle et Berger, Rec. des Actes de Henri II, 1, 61 
(no. lvi*), collated with Foedera, and with Rec. des Hist. de France, xiii, p. 100” 
from Brompton’s Chronicle (pd. in Scriptores X, col. 1037). Delisle did not 
know of the Gurney MS.; and his basic text seems to be from an unauthori- 
tative source. 


16 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Alia vero castra que pertinent ad comitatum Moretonie dux ei red- 
det ad voluntatem meam cum poterit per salvam custodiam et per 
salvos obsides, ita quod omnes obsides reddantur filio meo quieti quando 
dux regnum Anglie habebit. 

Incrementum etiam quod ego Willelmo filio meo dedi ipse dux ei 
concessit, scilicet castrum de Norwic’! cum septingentis libratis terre, 
ita quod redditus de Norwico infra illas septingentas libratas comput- 
etur, et totum comitatum de Northfole preter illa que pertinent ad 
ecclesias et episcopos et abbates et comites et nominatim preter tercium 
denarium unde Hugo Bigotus est comes, salva et reservata in omnibus 
regali justicia. 

Item ad roborandam graciam meam et dilectionem dedit ei dux _ 
et concessit quicquid Richerus de Aquila habebat de honore Peveneselli 
et preter hoc castrum et villam? Peveneselli et servitium Faramusi°* 
preter castrum et villam * de Doure et quod ad honorem Doure pertinet. 


Thus there was secured for William the lands of the honour 
of Warenne in Normandy, including the castles of Bellencombre 
and Mortemer, and the comté of Mortain, all of which were then in 
duke Henry’s hand. His provision in England, apart from the 
lands of the honour of Boulogne, to which he had succeeded, and 
those of the honour of Warenne, which he held in his wife’s right, 
included all the lands held by Stephen his father before he be- 
came king. In 1135 these had consisted of the honour of Boulogne, 
held in his wife’s right; the honour of Eye, formerly held by Robert 
Malet: the honour of Lancaster, formerly held by Roger of Poitou; 
and certain other crown lands granted him by Henry I.° In addition 
William received from the duke a confirmation of the castle of 
Norwich and a large interest in the comitatus of Norfolk, which his 
father had given him,® and further gifts including the castle of 
Pevensey with an interest in that honour. 

The full effect of these clauses, however, was not maintained. 
The policy of Henry II, which he pursued with determination, was 
to bring into his own hand lands which had been alienated from the 
crown, and to obtain possession of the castles;? and Robert of Tor- 
igny records that in 1157 William, described as count of Mortain 
and earl of Surrey, that is de Warenne, surrendered to the king 
Pevensey and Norwich and whatever crown lands he was holding 
and all his ‘munitiones’ both in Normandy and England, being 


1 Brom Foedera; castra scilicet et villas de Norwico, Gurney MS. 

2 From Foedera; hec castra et villas, Gurney MS. 

3 Faramus of Boulogne, for whom see Appendix C below. 

4 From Foedeva; castra et villas, Gurney MS. 

5 Round, ‘The Counts of Boulogne,’ in Studies in Peerage and Family 
History, pp. 167 et seg., where the importance of the provision made for 
William is discussed. 

6 On this point see the account of Hugh Bigod, earl of Norfolk, in 
Complete Peerage, new ed., ix, 582, where it is noted that nothing more is 
heard of William’s right to the comitatus of Norfolk, involving the overlord- 
ship of all the tenants-in-chief. He possessed, however, large interests in that 
county which formed a portion of the honour of Warenne. 

7 Round, ut sup., p. 170. 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 17 


allowed to retain whatever king Stephen held at the death of 
Henry I. 

There are several charters available which illustrate William's 
tenure of lands of the honours of Boulogne, Pevensey, Eye* and 
Lancaster’ in England, and of the comté of Mortain in Normandy.? 
Charters relating to lands of the honour of Warenne, which can be 
definitely assigned to him as the fourth earl, are few; and only two 
are included in the collection of charters in Chapter II. 

As William earl de Warenne (comes Warennie) he witnessed a 
charter of king Stephen to Lewes priory at Lewes, 1148-53;° 
another by which the king confirmed an exchange between the 
bishop of Salisbury and Lewes priory on the same occasion;® 
another of the king’s at Westminster;? a charter of his brother 
Eustace to Lewes priory in the same period;* and one of Simon de 
St. Liz II, earl of Northampton, to the Templars, issued between 
Sept. 1152 and Aug. 1153.9 He witnessed a charter of king 
Henry II to the Hospitallers issued in the council at Winchester 
at Michaelmas 1155;!° and at his request, described as the king’s 
kinsman, Henry II issued a confirmation charter to Faversham 
abbey, which he witnessed at Colchester in May 1157.1} 

In 1158 he was knighted by Henry II at Carlisle; and 
probably accompanied the king to Normandy in August of that 

ear8 He served during the campaign of Toulouse in the summer 
of 1159, and died on the retreat in October.4 He was buried in the 
hospital of Montmorillon in Poitou. King Henry II issued a 


1 Chyon. Robert de Torigni, pp. 192-3; ‘. . . in Anglia comes Surrele, 
id est de Warenna.’ 

2 Details of its early history are given in Bh. of Fees, pp. 137-8, with the 
statement that William held it for 3 years before his death; this may con- 
firm the suggestion that he came of age after July 1155. 

3 During his reign Stephen granted the honour of Lancaster to Ranulf 
earl of Chester (Farrer, Lancs. Pipe Rolls and Early Charters, p. 368; Reg. 
Antiquissimum, Linc. Rec. Soc., i, 288; and cf. H. A. Cronne ‘The Honour of 
Lancaster in Stephen’s Reign’ in E.H.R., vol. 1, pp. 670 et seq.). This was 
confirmed to Ranulf by duke Henry early in 1153 (Farrer, op. cil.) pas70); 
but he died on 16 Dec. of that year. 

4 A calendar of these charters is given in Appendix C below, with a 
discussion of the diversity of styles whichhe used in them. They include a 
fine original in the British Museum (Harley Ch. 83A. 25; B.M. Facsimiles, 
no. 37), relating to land of the honour of Boulogne. 

5 Ancient Charters, Pipe Roll Soc., no. 30. 

6 Ibid., no. 31. 

7 Hist. MSS. Comm., Duke of Rutland, iv, 80. 

8 Lewes Chartulary, f. 89V (S.R.S., i, 161). 

9 Records of the Templars, Brit. Academy, p. 185; as Will[elmus] 
com{[es] de Warenn{a]. : 

10 Delisle et Berger, Rec. des Actes de Henri II, i, no. 6; as Wy{illelmus}] 
comes Waren|[nie]. 

11 Eyton, Itinerary, p. 27, pointing out that the transcript in Mon. Ang., 
iv, 573 wrongly gives the place of issue as Gloucester. 

12 Eyton, Itinerary, pp. 32, 39; Chron. Robert de Tovigni, p. 196, where 
he is described as ‘comes Moritonii et de Warenna,’ and the date is given 
as 24 June. 

13 In view of a charter which he issued at Tinchebrai, dated 1158 (see 
Appendix C below). 

14 Ibid., p. 206. 


18 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


charter! at Loudun in Touraine to this house? for the soul of 
William count of Boulogne, whose body lay there, giving 10 marks’ 
worth of land in the vill of Ickleton® [co. Cambridge], in accordance 
with the bounds set by Turold de Boreham, the count’s steward,* 
at the order of Reginald de Warenne. 

On the death of William without issue the king took into his 
hand the comté of Mortain® and the honour of Eye;® and although 
William’s sister Mary, then abbess of Romsey, became the wife of 
Matthew of Flanders, who thus held the comté of Boulogne in her 
right, the lands of the honour of Boulogne in England were retained 
in the king’s hand.’ With regard to the honour of Lancaster it 
has been suggested that it was held by countess Isabel, William's 
widow, until her marriage to Hamelin, the king’s half-brother, 
when it was taken into the king’s hand.8 


HAMELIN, fifth earl de Warenne, an illegitimate son of 
Geoffrey count of Anjou, the name of his mother being unknown. 
He married Isabel de Warenne as her second husband in 1164,° 


1 Ancient Charters, Pipe Roll Soc., no. 38. It was confirmed by Henry 
LLL in 1254 (Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1247-58, p. 382, where the text, compared with 
the original, is not completely accurate). The extreme limits of date, as 
Round showed, are 1159-62. It is possible that it was issued shortly after 
William’s death, for Loudun is in the direction of Normandy from Limoges 
and Montmorillon (see the next note); but the clause regarding the assign- 
ment of the land which had been made suggests some lapse of time, and it is 
known that the king went again to the south in the summer of 1161 (Eyton, 
Itinerary, p. 54). 

oe pauperibus domus Dei de monte Maurelio.’ This is identified 
as above in the index to Bk. of Fees, which must supersede the identification 
given by Round as Montmorel, dio. Avranches. The king was at Limoges 
in Oct. 1159 after retreating from Toulouse by way of Cahors (Eyton, 
Itinerary, pp. 47-8). Montmorillon, dept. Vienne, lies to the north of Limoges 
on the way to Tours; and it is likely that William died in that neighbourhood. 

3 A member of the honour of Boulogne. At Mich. 1162 the brethren 
of ‘Mundmorelun’ were pardoned Qs. for danegeld in co. Cambridge (Pipe 
Roll 8 Hen. II, p. 48). In 1217-18 ‘Mont Morillun ubi comes Willelmus jacet’ 
had an interest of 10 marks in Ickleton (BR. of Fees, p. 243); and in another 
return the brethren of Muntmorilun’ had 6l. 13s. 4d. there (ibid., p. 1431). 
For a reference in 1279 to their holding there of 3 hides 474 ac. of the 
honour of Boulogne see Farrer, Feudal Cambridgeshire, p. 272. 

4 See Appendix C below. 

5 Chron. Robert de Torignt, p. 206. 

6 Richard I gave the honour of Eye to Henry duke of Lorraine, the 
husband of Maud one of the two daughters of Matthew of Flanders (Round, 
ut sup., p. 176; and see BR. of Fees, p. 138). 

7 Round, ut sup., pp. 171 et seqg., giving details of the compensation 
paid to Matthew and his armed descent on England in 1167, and also of 
subsequent grants of land in England to Reginald de Dammartin, count 
of Boulogne in right of his wife Ida, Matthew’s other daughter. 

8 Farrer, Lancs. Pipe Rolls, p. 6; Tait, Mediaeval Manchester, p. 176. 

9 The marriage is recorded by Robert de Torigni (Chron., p. 221) under 
that year. The entry follows those recording the death of William the king’s 
brother on 30 Jan. 1163-4 (see above), and the dedication of Reading abbey 
c. the octave of Easter (31 March); and the next entry but one is the death of 
Octavian, the anti-pope Victor IV, the date of which is known to be 20 
April. This has the appearance of contemporary evidence arranged chrono- 
logically; and it can be suggested that the marriage took place in April. At 
Mich. 1164 a payment of 41/i. 10s. 8d. by the king’s writ is recorded on the 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 19 


and held the honour of Warenne in her right. In 1166 he returned 
his carta from Sussex, recording that he held 60 knights’ fees.’ 

In 1164 he was present at the Council of Northampton.” 
In 1173 he supported the king against his sons;* and in 1176 he 
was one of those who formed the escort of princess Joan for her 
marriage to William king of Sicily.* He was among the earls present 
at the first coronation of Richard I on 3 Sept. 1189.5 In the king's 
absence he supported the chancellor against the intrigues of John; 
and was one of the three earls appointed on the chancellor’s behalf 
to maintain the terms agreed at Winchester on 28 July 1191.° In 
1193 he was one of the treasurers for the king’s ransom;’ and in 
the following year was present at the Council of Nottingham. §® 
He carried one of the three swords at the king’s second coronation 
on 17 April 1194.9 He was present at John’s coronation on 27 
May 1199;1° and was a witness to the oath of homage of William 
king of Scotland at Lincoln on 22 Nov. 1200." King John was at 
Conisborough on 5 March 1200-1, when he issued a charter and 
also a letter to the dean and chapter of York from there.” Earl 
Hamelin died on 7 May 1202,1% and was buried in the chapter- 
house at Lewes.14 

He witnessed several charters issued both in England and 
Normandy by Henry IT® and Richard I,* anda few issued by 


London and Middlesex roll for the clothes (pann’) of the countess de Warenne 
(Pipe Roll 10 Hen. II, p. 20), doubtless, as Farrer suggests (H.K.F., iii, 302), 
for her trousseau. At Mich. 1165 there is a reference to Hamelin ‘comes 
Warennilie]’ (Pipe Roll 11 Hen. II, p. 92). 

1 Red Bk. of Exch., p. 204; there are no details of his enfeoffed knights. 
At Mich. 1172 60/i. was due for scutage of his knights (Pipe Roll 18 Hen. aT; 
p. 132); and Farrer notes that the scutage of the honour continued to be 
based on 60 k.f. (H.K.F., iii, 304). 

2 Eyton, Itinerary, p. 79. 

3 Gesta Henrici, i, 51n. 

4 Ibid., p. 120. 

5 [bid., ii, 80; described as ‘frater regis Henrici comes Warennae.’ 

6 Chron. Richard of Devizes, p. 409, in Chron. Stephen, Henry II and 
Ric. I, vol. iii. 

7 Howden, iii, 212. 8 Ibid., p. 241. So Dba p.248. 

10 Tbid., iv, 90. 

11 Tbid., p. 141. - 

12 Rot. Chart., pp. 89b, 102a. The charter was witnessed, not by earl 
Hamelin, but by William de Warenne, either the earl’s son or, more likely, 
William of Wormegay. The king’s stay was short, as he was at Brotherton 
on 4 March and at Clipstone on 6 March. 

13 Shortly before 12 May 1202 (see below). The genealogical notes in 
Lewes Chartulary, f. 106 (S.R.S., ii, 16) give 7 May 1202 in the 43rd year of 
his earldom. The latter part of the statement is incorrect, but 7 May is 
corroborated by the fact that the earl was commemorated on that day at 
Beauchief abbey (S. O. Addy, Beauchief Abbey, p. 36). 

14 Lewes Chartulary, ut sup. 

15 These include E.Y.C., i, nos. 406, 505; Cal. Docs. France, nos. 962, 
1075, 1262; Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1300-26, p. 199; 1341-1417, p. 285; Hist. MSS. 
Comm., Duke of Rutland, iv, 22; Eyton, Itinerary, p. 262. In all of these the 
style is ‘Hamelinus comes Warennie’ or ‘de Warenna’ or ‘comes Hamelinus 
de Warenna’: and the Surrey style is not used. For the use of the Surrey 
style on his seal see Chapter V below. 

16 About fourteen are noted in Itinerary of Richard I, Pipe Roll Soc.; 
none of these has the Surrey style. 


20) HONOUR OF WARENNE 


John. He was probably the builder of the cylindrical keep of the 
castle of Mortemer in Normandy and subsequently of the keep of 
Conisborough, ‘an enlarged and improved version of the Mortemer 
design.’? In 1200 he was granted a weekly market at Conisborough.? 

The collection of his charters printed in the next chapter 
includes confirmations and gifts, several issued in conjunction with 
his wife, to Lewes priory, the Hospitallers, St. Mary’s York, 
Nostell priory, the chapel of St. Philip and St. James in the castle 
of Conisborough, the priory of St. Katherine, Lincoln, South- 
wark priory, and the abbey of St. Victor-en-Caux; together with 
some relating to lands held of the honour of Conisborough and the 
manor of Wakefield. Documents are also printed there relating 
to his prolonged disputes, sometimes leading to violence, over the 
right of appointing the priors of Lewes, of which an ineffective 
settlement was made in 1181 and another, which in turn led to 
further difficulties, in 1201.4 With his wife and son he was a 
benefactor of the abbey of West Dereham; and he issued two 
charters to the priory of the Holy Sepulchre, Thetford,® and 
several to Castle Acre priory.? In Normandy he was a benefactor 
of the abbey of Foucarmont.® 

Besides the honour of Warenne in Normandy which he held 
in right of his wife he held land in Touraine which he had doubtless 
been given by his half-brother king Henry II; and there is some 
evidence that he was styled vicomte of Touraine.? He exchanged 
his land there with Richard I for Thetford, Norfolk, in 1190-91.1° 
There is also a record that he was styled advocate of Saint-Bertin."? 

By his wife countess Isabel he had issue a son and three 
daughters : 

(1) William, the sixth earl. 


(2) Ela, who married, first, Robert de Newburn, of whom 
nothing seems to be known; and, secondly, William FitzWilham 
of Sprotborough.2 In her widowhood, described as daughter of 


1 Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1341-1417, pp. 400-1. He was present in the king’s 
court at Westminster, 1200-01 (Lib. Nig. Scacc., p. 372). 

2 Y.A.J.,xxxii, 149, in a paper ‘Conisborough and Mortemer’ by Harold 
Sands and Hugh Braun, with a postscript by L. C. Loyd. 

3 Rot: Chart.ps 9S6b: 4 Charters nos. 78, 79 and notes. 

3 Rot..Chart., p.-21b: 6 Mon. Ang., vi, 729. 7 Ibid., v, 46. 

8 Delisle et Berger, Actes de Henri II, no. 753. 

9 A charter of Henry II to the abbey of Fontevrault was witnessed 


there in 1173 by ‘. . . . Hamelino comite Warenne, et vicecomite de Torennia, 
Stephano de Turonis seneschallo Andegavensi . . .’ (Ibid., no. 457). This 
reads as if Hamelin was the vicomte. 

10 Charter no. 82. 11 See on this point Appendix A. 


12 There is no doubt that William son of William, named as Ela’s second 
husband in her charter, can be so identified. William, sixth earl de Warenne, 
issued a charter to Roger son of William, described as his nephew, 1238-40; 
eal was evidently a member of that family (Hunter, South Yorkshire, 
i : 

William FitzWilliam, who was the son of William son of Godric by his 
wife Aubreye de Lisours, was born c. 1170 and died 1219-24 (W. Paley 
Baildon, Baildon and the Baildons, i, pp. 350-2; and E.Y.C., iii, p. 336). He 
had an earlier wife named Maud; for described as son and heir of Aubreye 
de Lisours he confirmed to Hampole priory a gift of his mother Aubreye, 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 21 


earl Hamelin, she issued a charter mentioning her two husbands 
by name, and her sons and daughters, by which she gave to Roche 
abbey 5 virgates of land in Rottingdean, Sussex; and after her death 
her gift was confirmed by her brother William earl de Warenne.t 

(3) Isabel, who was given land in Sowerby and Sowerbyshire 
in frank-marriage by her father (see below). She married, first, 
Robert de Lascy, after whose death in 1193 she rendered account 
at Michaelmas 1194 of 80 marks for having her reasonable dower 
from his land.2 In 1200 she had a dispute with Roger [de Lascy], 
constable of Chester, then lord of the honour of Pontefract, com- 
plaining that he had disseised her of dower, whereas he com- 
plained that her dower was excessive; in the proceedings in the 
following year Gilbert de Laigle (de Aquila), her second husband, 
stated that she had been married in another county in the lifetime 
of Henry de Lascy, Robert’s father, that Robert had dowered her 
at marriage with a third of his prospective inheritance, and that 
after his father’s death? he had assigned her dower in a third of 
100 librates of land, Roger [de Lascy] stating that she was dowered 
in specified lands of the Lascy fee in demesne and apparently the 
service of 5 knights’ fees.® 


She married, secondly, not later than the early months of 
1196,® Gilbert de Laigle, lord of Pevensey. She held the manor of 
Northease [in Rodwell, in the rape of Lewes, Sussex] of William 
earl de Warenne, and as the widow of Gilbert de Laigle she gave a 
third of it to Michelham priory; the priory held this third of her 
during her life, and then of William earl de Warenne, her brother 
and heir, and then of his descendants.’ In the foundation of that 


and arent for a pittance of the nuns and for buying oil for a lamp to burn 
at the tomb of Maud formerly his wife (Mon. Ang., v, 487, from a later 
inspeximus). The earliest mention of the manor of Emley as a holding of the 
FitzWilliam family appears to be in 1253 (Complete Peerage, new ed., v, 519); 
and it is possible that this place, where 3 carucates were soke of the manor of 
Wakefield in 1086, was given to Ela by her father earl Hamelin in frank- 
marriage, and so descended in the FitzWilliam family. 

1 Charters nos. 96, 97 below. 

2 Pipe Roll 6 Ric. I, p. 160 (Yorkshire). Payment was completed at 
Mich. 1196 (Chancellor's Roll 8 Ric. I, p. 176). 

3 In Hoiland; presumably Holland, co. Lincoln. 

+ In 1177-78. Henry was alive in the year ending at Mich. 1 177, and his 
son Robert rendered account of 1000 marks for the fine of his land at Mich. 
1178 (Pipe Roll 23 Hen. II, -p. 71; 24 Hen. I, p. 72). 

5 Curia Regis Rolls, i, pp. 281, 357, 375-7. 

6 In Hil. term 7 Ric. I [1195-6] Gilbert de Laigle (de Aquila) had licence 
to make a concord for land in Sowerbyshire (ibid., p. 24); and at Mich. 1196 
he had quittance of scutage in Yorkshire (Chancellor's Roll 8 Ric. I, p. 175). 
His interests in Yorkshire were doubtless due to his marriage to Isabel. He 
took his name from Laigle, dept. Orne, which appears in the records cited 
in the latinized form of Aquila. 

7 Cal. Close Rolls, 1333-37, p. 369. In a case relating to the gift to 
Michelham heard in 1362-63 Isabel’s charter was cited, by which she gave 
a third of her manor of Northease, which third her brother William earl de 
Warenne gave her in exchange for lands and tenements in Sowerby and 
Sowerbyshire which her father earl Hamelin had given her in frank-marriage 
(Add. MS. 39374, f. 199—a reference due to V.C.H. Sussex, vii, 71n—being 
abst, from De Banco Roll, Mich. 37 Edw. III, m. 321). 


22 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


priory she had joined with her husband, c. 1229." At an earlier 
date, after Gilbert de Laigle went to Normandy against the king’s 
will the vills of Westcott [in Dorking] and Witley [Surrey], which 
had belonged to him, were taken into the king’s hand; and earl de 
Warenne made a fine on behalf of his sister, Gilbert’s wife, for these 
vills, the former of which she had in dower, and both of which in 
1212 were in the earl’s hand;? and in 1207 William earl de Warenne 
had given 3000 marks payable in instalments for having the custody 
of the lands of Gilbert de Laigle for the use of his sister, mention 
being made of Gilbert’s sons or daughters.? Gilbert subsequently 
recovered the honour of Pevensey; and on 8 Dec. 1226 had licence 
to pass to and from Normandy.’ He died shortly before 19 Dec. 
1231:5 and on 16 Jan. 1231-2 an extent of his lands in Sussex, 
Surrey and co. Southampton was ordered to be made for the 
assignment of her reasonable dower to Isabel his widow.* On 
15 Oct. 1234 the justices next going on eyre in Yorkshire were 
ordered to postpone until the following year a plea brought by 
Isabel de Laigle against Jordan Talevaz and Michael Talevaz 
and their parceners relating to land in Sowerbyshire;’ and she 
died before 30 Nov. 1234.8 She left no issue by either husband. 

(4) Maud, who married, first, Henry, count of Eu and lord 
of Hastings. He probably died in 1190-91.° By him she had issue, 
with two sons who died young,!® a daughter Alice, countess of Eu 


1 Mon. Ang., vi, 494; Pat. Rolls, 1225-32, p. 248. 

2 Bk. of Fees, pp. 85, 67. 

3 Rot. de Fin., p. 401; the entry which is defective has ‘. . . de fillis 
ipsius Gilleberti’; and Pipe Roll 9 John, p. 41. It seems likely that Gilbert’s 
children were by an earlier wife. 

4 Pat. Rolls, 1225-32, p. 96. ; 

5 Close Rolls, 1231-34, p. 12; and, for his executors, p. 22. 

6 Pat. Rolls, 1225-32, p. 458. 

7 Close Rolls, 1231-34, p. 536. 

8 Exc; é¢ Rot. Fin., 17 269: 

9 The date usually accepted for the death of count Henry is 1183 (‘The 
Counts of Eu, sometime Lords of the Honour of Tickhill,’ by E. Chester 
Waters, in Y.A.J., ix, 280; G. W. Watson’s pedigree of the Counts of Eu 
in Genealogist, xxxvi, 8; and Complete Peerage, new ed., v, 159). The sole 
authority for this appears to be the Chronicle of the Counts of Eu (pd. in 
Rec. des Hist. de la France, xxiii, pp. 439-48). This chronicle, compiled 
by a monk of the abbey of Foucarmont in 1390, must be read with caution; 
for instance the parentage of Mahault [Maud], the wife of count Henry, is 
given incorrectly. A note in Complete Peerage, loc. cit., shows that count 
Henry must have been alive in the year ending at Michaelmas 1190 as he 
was assessed for the scutage of Wales (Pipe Roll 2 Ric. I, p. 130). Moreover, 
he issued a charter which’ according to a copy was dated in that year (Cal. 
Docs. France, no. 401). That he was dead in 1191 is shown by a charter of 
that date issued by Ralph count of Eu, his son-in-law and successor (Com- 
plete Peerage, v, 161n). 

It may be noticed that the supposition that Maud, whose parents were 
apparently married in 1164, could have had three children by a husband 
who died in 1183 is one which invites suspicion. A date such as MCLXXXXI 
could easily be misread as MCLXXXIII. 

‘0 These were Ralph and Guy as named in the Chron. of the Counts 
of Eu, dying young in 1186 and 1185 respectively (Recueil, ut sup., p. 442). 
The fact that the chronicler gave precise details of their place of burial in 
Be eked church (ibid., p. 441) is good evidence of their existence and 
lliation, 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 23 


and lady of Hastings, who married Raoul de Lusignan, and died in 
1246. Alice, who was descended through her father from Beatrice 
sister of Roger de Busli, lord of Tickhill, was in possession of the 
honour of Tickhill, which had been granted to her husband, from 
after his death in 1219 until she lost it by forfeiture in 1244. She 
issued a charter to Roche abbey, dated at Tickhill 1219, which 
was witnessed by William earl de Warenne described as_ her 
uncle.t 

Maud de Warenne married, secondly, Henry d’Estouteville 
or de Stuteville, of Eckington, co. Derby and Dedham, Essex, and 
lord of Valmont and Rames in Normandy. She made a donation 
to the abbey of Valmont in 1212; and on 13 Dec. 1228 Henry 
d’Estouteville made a donation to the same house for lights in the 
church on the anniversary of the death of his wife Maud countess 
of Eu? 

In respect of any lands which she held in her own right her 
heir was her son by her second marriage, John d’Estouteville,® 
who died in 1258, being succeeded by Robert his son and heir.‘ 

The fact that at the death of Robert d’Estouteville in 1306, 
in addition to his holdings of Eckington and Dedham and other 
interests, he held a capital messuage and land in Gresham, Norfolk, 
of the heir of John de Warenne, earl of Surrey, by the service of 
2 knights’ fees,®> suggests that he had inherited this by descent 
from Maud de Warenne, daughter of earl Hamelin, and that it 
had formed her maritagium. 

It is a matter of interest that in Aug. 1209 Alice countess of 
Eu, Maud’s daughter, when she received the comté of Eu from the 
king of France, made a quitclaim of all right to Neufchatel, Mor- 
temer and Arques.6 Mortemer was a member of the honour vof 
Warenne in Normandy from the time when it was given to William 
de Warenne I by duke William; and it can be supposed that Alice 


1 For these statements see the article on Eu in Complete Peerage, ut 
sup., pp. 159-66; followed by an account of Alice’s descendants. 

2 Ibid., p. 160. This suggests that Maud had died shortly before. 

3 In a charter of his to the abbey of Valmont he mentioned Henry his 
father and Maud his mother (La Roque, Maison de Harcourt, iv, corr. and 
add., unnumbered p. 23; dated 1236). For his English lands in the period 
1235-44 see BR. of Fees, pp. 998, 1150, 1152, etc. 

+ Close Rolls, 1256-59, p. 262. 

5 Cal. Ing. p.m., iv, no. 369. William de Warenne held 2 car. in Gresham 
and 2 car. in Aylmerton in 1086; from the time of Henry II the Branche 
family held a tenancy in these places of the honour of Warenne (Blomefield 
and Parkin, Norfolk, vol. iv (ed. 1775), pp. 286, 319); and in 1242-43 Peter 
Branche held 2 knights’ fees of that honour in Gresham and Aylmerton 
(Bk. of Fees, p. 905). In 1274-75 Robert de Stuteville had the assize of bread 
and beer in Gresham (Rot. Hundr., i, 496a); and in 1286 vouched John de 
Warenne to warranty relating thereto (Plac. de Quo War., p. 498b). In 1302, 
when his lands were in the king’s hand by reason of the war with France, 
he was returned as holding the manor of Gresham of the earl of Surrey by 
the service of 2 k.f. (Feudal Aids, iii, 436). He was the ancestor of the later 
Estoutevilles of Valmont. 

6 Delisle, Cartulaire Normand, p. 28. This is mentioned in Y.4./., 
xxxii, 159, where the date 1219 should be recte 1209. 


24 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


was renouncing any claim to it which might be due to her descent 
from earl Hamelin, her grandfather. 


WILLIAM DE WARENNE, sixth earl de Warenne and earl 
of Surrey. As William de Warenne, son of earl Hamelin, he wit- 
nessed a charter of Richard I at Rouen on 1 Sept. 1197.7 On 12 
May 1202 king John, then in Normandy, issued orders to the tenants 
of the land which had belonged to earl H{amelin| de Warenne, 
having heard of the earl’s death and taken the homage of William 
his son, to do their fealty to the latter ‘salva fide matris sue’;? 
and on 4 June orders for W. ‘comes de Warenne’ to have land 
which had belonged to the count of Boulogne at Lillebonne.? With | 
the loss of Normandy his lands there passed to Philip Augustus;* 
and on 19 April 1205 the king committed Grantham and Stamford 
to him until he should recover his land in Normandy or until the 
king gave him a suitable exchange elsewhere.° 


On 15 March 1203-4 he was granted a yearly fair at Wake- 
field. In 1212 a return from the rape of Lewes records tia fee 
held in chief 62 knights’ fees, these being throughout all his land 
in England; and in the rape of Pevensey he held 304 fees of the 
fee of Gilbert de Laigle by reason of a fine made with the king.’ 

On 24 Aug. 1225 the sheriffs of Yorkshire, Lincolnshire and 
Nottinghamshire were ordered to give William earl de Warenne 
seisin for the use of Alice countess of Eu® of all the lands which 
William de Tylly had held of her fee.? Among these was Greetwell, 
co. Lincoln, a member of the honour of Tickhill.1° This manor was 
given by countess Alice in her widowhood to the earl, a sparrow- 
hawk to be rendered yearly to Philippa de Tilly,” who herself 
released to him all her right therein for 200 marks with land in 


1 Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1300-26, p. 480. There may be some earlier references 
to him as a witness to Richard’s charters, but it is not easy to distinguish 
him from William de Warenne of Wormegay, who so described also witnessed 
this one. 

2 Rot. Pat., p. 10b. 

3 Rot. Norm., p. 47, and p. 111 for another grant in Normandy on 
11 Nov. 1203. 

4 Cal. Docs. France, no. 1431. 

5 Rot. Claus., i, 28a. The earl continued to hold Grantham and the 
soke and an interest in Stamford until his death (BR. of Fees, pp. 185, 195, 
617, 625). 

6 Anc. Deed A 354 (Cat., i, 40).; facsimile in J. W. Walker, Wakefield, 
Ist ed., facing p. 54. 

7 Bk. of Fees, p. 71. Although the point is not susceptible of proof it is 
possible that the 62 k.f. were composed of the usual 60 k.f. for service due 
from the honour of Lewes, together with the 2 k.f. for service due, certainly 
at a later date in 1347, from the honour of Conisborough and the manor of 
Wakefield (Cal. Ing. p.m., ix, no. 54, p. 48; and see Chapter III below). For 
having the Pevensey fees the earl rendered account of 200011. at Mich. 1207 
(Pipe Roll 9 John, p. 41). 

8 She was the earl’s niece and held the honour of Tickhill (see above). 

9 Rot. Claus., ii, 59a. 

10 A manor there was held by Roger de Busli in 1086; and for the 
Tickhill tenure in 1242-43 see Bk. of Fees, p. 1065. 
11 Anc, Deed A, 5462 (Cazt., iii, 182). 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 25 


Mealton [Melton-on-the-Hill] and Upton [co. Nottingham].' In 
a return of 1237 the earl was holding of the king’s gift Greetwell, 
worth 101i., which had belonged to William de Tilly (Thyly), a 
Norman:? and, like Stamford and Grantham, he was holding it 
at his death. There is evidence that he created an under-tenancy 
there in 1238-40 in favour of Roger FitzWilliam, described as his 
nephew.* 

The earl, whose public career is outside the scope of the 
present volume,’ married before 13 Oct. 1225 Maud, eldest 
daughter of William Marshal earl of Pembroke and widow of 
Hugh Bigod earl of Norfolk, who had died in the preceding Feb- 
ruary.? He died 27 May 1240,8 and was buried in the priory church 
of Lewes.2 The dower of his widow, countess Maud, included the 
manor and advowson of Hatfield, with specified exceptions, and 
also the manor of Sowerby.!® She died 27 March 1248."? 
| His successor, a minor at his death, was by her his son John, 
seventh earl de Warenne. The seventh earl died in 1304, and was 


1 Anc. Deed A. 5466 (Caz., iii, 182). Philippa’s tenure in these places 
in 1244 is given in Bk. of Fees, p. 1148; and at her death in 1248, leaving 
sons and daus. dwelling in Normandy, she held half the manor of Melton of 
the hon. of Tickhill and land in Upton (Cal. Inq. Misc., i, no. 145). For 
the original Tilly interest see Hunter, S.Y., i, 363 and Thoroton, Nottingham- 
shire, ed. Throsby, iii, 251; and the earl’s interest was evidently due to the 
grant made to him in 1225. 

2 Bk. of Fees, p. 616. In 1221 the sheriff of Yorks. had been ordered 
to give William de Tylly seisin of his land in Melton-on-the-Hill (Meautun’), 
the sheriff of Lincs. that of Greetwell, and the sheriff of Notts. that of 
Upton (Rot. Claus., i, 483b). 3 Bk. of Fees, p. 625. 

4 This is the charter cited above (p. 20”) from Hunter, S.Y., 1, 334, 
where the suggestion is made (unnecessarily) that Gretewell should be Brete- 
well, i.e. Braithwell, a member of the honour of Conisborough. 

5 An account of this will be given in Complete Peerage, new ed., in the 
article on Surrey. 

6 On that day arrangements were ordered for the assignment to William 
earl de Warenne and Maud his wife of her dower from the knights’ fees held 
of Hugh earl of Norfolk, formerly her husband (Rot. Claus., ii, 82b). 

7 Complete Peerage, new ed., ix, 589. The office of marshal of England 
passed through her to her eldest son Roger Bigod, e. of Norfolk. 

8 Matt. Paris, Chron. Maj., Rolls Ser., iv, 12. 

9 Lewes Chartulary, f. 106 (S.R.S., ii, 16), which can be trusted on this 
point. There is a record that he made a gift to the priory with his body for 
burial (Close Rolls, 1237-42, p. 209). 

10 Close Rolls, 1237-42, pp. 202-3, 232; for her dower in other counties 
see H.K.F., iii, 306. 

11 Complete Peerage, ut sup., p. 590, though no documentary evidence 
is given. The year and the place of her burial at Tintern abbey are given in 
Reg. of St. Mary’s, Dunbrothy (Chartularies of St. Mary’s, Dublin, vol. ii, 
Rolls Ser.), p. 143. She was ill on 9 March 1247-8 (Close Rolls, 1247-51, p. 
110), and was dead 7 April 1248 (Exc. e Rot. Fin., ii, 31). The account of her 
in the genealogical notes in Lewes Chartulary, f. 107V (S.R.S., ii, 18), inaccur- 
ate as to her parentage, with the date of her death as 31 March 1236 before 
her husband, cannot be trusted. Those notes, ff. 106, 107Y, 109 (S.R.S., ui, 
pp. 16, 18-9), state that the sixth earl had two wives named Maud, the first 
being a dau. of the earl of Arundel and dying 6 Feb. 1215. There seems 
to be no corroboration of such a parentage; but from an independent source 
it appears that a Maud countess de Warenne was commemorated on 6 Feb. 
(S. O. Addy, Beauchief Abbey, p. 25). It can be deduced, therefore, that in 
all probability the earl had a first wife named Maud. 


26 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


succeeded by his grandson John, eighth and last earl de Warenne, 
who died in 1347.4 


go 
THE WARENNES OF WORMEGAY 


RAINALD or REGINALD? DE WARENNE, third son of William 
second earl de Warenne.’ As his father. did not marry before 
June 1118, the earliest date for his birth is 1121; and, as he was 
certainly of age in 1147, the latest date is 1126.* 

His brother the third earl employed him in the adminis- 
tration of his Norfolk estates;> and on leaving England for the 
crusade in 1147 left him in charge of the honour.* He continued 
to administer the honour on behalf of William son of king Stephen, 
the fourth earl, husband of his niece Isabel;? and was his principal 
adviser, to most of whose charters he was the first or first lay 
witness, acting not only for the lands of the honour of Warenne, 
but for the other lands and honours which the earl acquired.® 
Under the terms of the treaty between king Stephen and Henry, 
duke of Normandy, in 1153 he was given the option of having the 
custody of the castles of Bellencombre and Mortemer, belonging 
to the honour of Warenne in Normandy;® and he was among the 
witnesses to the king’s notification of the treaty.” 

In 1164 he was present at the Council of Clarendon;" and in 
1167 accompanied Maud, the king’s daughter, to Saxony.” The 
evidence of the Pipe Rolls shows that he was a justice itinerant in 
several counties during the period 1168-76, and sheriff of Sussex 
from Easter 1170 to Michaelmas 1176. At Michaelmas 1169 he was 
one of the barons of the Exchequer.® In Dec. 1170 he was among 
Becket’s enemies who took a principal part in opposing the landing 
of the archbishop in England.!4 A statement in a charter issued 


1 H.K.F., iii, pp. 306-8. Accounts of the last two earls with special 
relation to Conisborough and Wakefield are given in Hunter, South Yorkshire, 
i, pp. 107 et seg., and J. W. Walker, Wakefield, 1st ed., pp. 56-63. 

Ae 2 The forms Rainaldus and Reginaldus occur more or less indiscrimin- 
ately. 

3 Farrer in H.K.F., iii, 323 (followed in V.C.H. Sussex, vii, 283) des- 
cribes him as illegitimate; but there is no justification for this; indeed, the 
description of him by William of Canterbury given below is evidence to the 
contrary. In the genealogical notes in Lewes Chartulary, f. 1O8Y ($1833, 
ii, 19) he is given as one of the three sons of the second earl by his wife Isabel, 
though in a senior position to Ralph. 


+ He had two sisters, one or both of whom may have been older than 
im. 


w 


Charters nos. 43, 44 and note to no. 45. 
6 Charters nos. 49, 50. 
Charter no. 50. 8 See Appendix C. 9 See p. 15 above. 
10 Foedera, Rec. Comm., i, 18. 
11 Eyton, Itinerary, p. 67. 
12 Pipe Roll 13 Hen, Il, p. 19. 
13 Madox, Formulare, no. 291; cf. Eyton, op. cit., p. 130. 
14 William of Canterbury in Becket Materials, Rolls Ser., i, 100, where 
he is described as frater germanus Willelmi comitis, and his character is 
contrasted with that of his brother who had died on crusade. 


ss 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 27 


by his son William shows that he became a monk in Lewes priory;? 
and the evidence of the Pipe Rolls given below shows that this 
event took place in the year preceding Michaelmas 1179. 

Among the many charters witnessed by Reginald de Warenne 
are a charter of king Stephen, 1146-54;? charters of king Henry II 
in 1157 and 1165, and one of the queen in 1158; charters of his 
brother William the third earl,* and most of those issued by the 
fourth earl;® charters of his niece countess Isabel,® and her second 
husband earl Hamelin;’ and a charter issued by Duncan earl of 
Fife to May priory.® 

By his marriage with Adeliza or Alice daughter and heir 
of William de Wormegay he acquired the barony of Wormegay® 
after her father’s death in 1166. William de Wormegay succeeded 
to the barony before Michaelmas 1160, when he paid 100/1. for his 
land, and had become responsible for a debt in Norfolk and Suffolk, 
which in the previous year was due from Richard de Wormegay.° 
In 1165 he paid 15/i. 5s. for scutage for the army of Wales.“ The 
details of his carta drawn up in 1166 comprise 144 knights’ fees 
of old feoffment, and a quarter of a knight’s fee of new feoffment, 
made by his father, a total of 144 fees.2 He died before Michaelmas 
of that year, when Reginald de Warenne owed 466/21. 13s. 4d. 
for a fine of the land of William de Wormegay.!® Towards this 
debt, which occurs on the ensuing Pipe Rolls, he made no pay- 
ment until 1176, when at Michaelmas he had paid 166/27. 13s. 4d., 
owing the balance of 300/7.14* At Michaelmas 1177 a further pay- 
ment of 13317. 6s. 8d. had been made, leaving a balance of 
16617. 13s. 4d., which was due from him at Michaelmas 1178.}° In 
1168 he paid 9/7. 10s. for the knights of the honour of Wormegay 
for the aid for the marriage of Maud, the king’s daughter; and 
owed 3s. 4d. in respect of a new feoffment.1® This debt of 3s. 4d. 
“occurs on the ensuing Pipe Rolls, and was still due from Reginald 


See p. 33 below. 

Madox, Formulare, no. 254. 
Eyton, Itinerary, pp: 27, 43, 77. 
Charters nos. 32-34. 

See Appendix C. 

Note to charter no. 54. — 
Charter no. 77. 

8 Reading Chartulary, Egerton MS. 3031, f. 62Y (a reference kindly 
supplied by Sir Frank Stenton). 

9 Wormegay is 6 miles s.e. of Kings Lynn in Norfolk. Alice’s parentage 
is given in a charter issued by Reginald to Southwark priory (Mon. Ang. 
vi, 171). 

10 Pipe Roll 5 Hen. II, p. 10; 6 Hen. II, pp. 2, 6. In the following year 
William made a payment of 201i. (ibid. 7 Hen. IT, p. 4). 

Meliia.Al Hew. Ji, p. 8. 

12 Red Bk. of Exch., p. 399. It is probable that his father was Richard 
de Wormegay, living in 1159. 

A> Pipe Roll 12 Hen. I, p. 19. 

14 Tbhid. 22 Hen. II, p. 62. 

15 Ibid. 23 Hen. II, p. 126; 24 Hen. II, p. 21. 

16 Ibid. 14 Hen. II, p. 21. The aid was a mark per fee; and Reginald’s 
assessment was for 14} fees of old feoffment and } fee of new feoffment, 
corresponding precisely with William de Wormegay’s carta of 1166. 


NO WW + WH 


28 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


at Michaelmas 1178.1 At Michaelmas 1172 he owed 14/1. 10s. for 
the honour of Wormegay, including 5s. for a new feoffment, for the 
scutage of Ireland.2 Of this debt he paid 14/1. by Michaelmas 1176, 
still owing the remaining 10s. at Michaelmas 1178. 

At Michaelmas 1179 Alice de Warenne owed 200 marks for a 
fine of her land of Wormegay, and 166l1. 13s. 4d. (the balance 
mentioned above) in respect of the fine which Reginald de Warenne 
had made with the king for the same land, a total of 300/.; she 
also owed the 3s. 4d. and 10s., which had been due from Reginald 
in the preceding year.* 

Reginald de Warenne was enfeoffed of many lands belonging 
to the honour of Warenne. These included the manors of Plumpton 
and Barcombe in Sussex, and a considerable estate in Norfolk.® 
He gave the church of Plumpton to Southwark priory;* and among 
his benefactions to Lewes priory were his tenement of Shernborne, 
Norfolk,’ the mill of Attlebridge in the same county,® a messuage 
in Lewes,® and one of the mills at Newhaven (Mechinges),1° which 
he gave when he entered the monastery. In the period 1159-64 
he was enfeoffed by Elias de Bosville of the manor of Harthill, 
which he and his descendants held as an under-tenancy of the 
honour of Conisborough.” 

Besides William his son and heir, Reginald de Warenne had 
daughters whom he mentioned, though not by name, in two of his 
charters to Lewes priory.!° It is probable that two of his daughters 
were (a) Gundreda de Warenne, who married successively Peter 
de Valognes, William de Curcy, and Geoffrey Hose; and (0) Alice 
de Warenne, who married Peter the constable. 


(2) Reference to Gundreda’s marriage to Peter de Valognes! 

is given in a case in 1234-35 relating to the descent of land in 

1 Pipe Roll 24 Hen. II, p. 21. 
Ibid. 18 Hen. II, p. 30. 
Ibid. 22 Hen. II, p. 65; 24 Hen. II, p. 22. 
Ibid. 25 Hen. II, pp. 2, 3, 4. 
See the details given by Farrer in H.K.F., iii, pp. 323-7, where he 
shows the holdings of the Bardolf family, Reginald’s descendants. 

Scions eine vi isis 

7 Chartulary, -£. 27V (S.R.S.,-i, 53). 

8 Pd. at note to no. 40 below. 

9 Pd. at note to no. 39 below. 

10 Original charter P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15413; Chartulary, without 
witnesses, f. 23 (S.R.S., i, 41). 

11 As recorded in a charter of his son; see below. 

12 Charter no. 111. Several other references to Reginald de Warenne are 
available. They include a letter written to him ‘karissimo amico’ by Henry 
son of Hubert de Ria, whose lands he had in custody, on behalf of Belvoir 
priory relating to the tithes of Aslackby, co. Lincoln; and a letter of Reginald’s 
on the same matter (Nichols, Leicestershire, vol. ii, part i, app. Belvoir, nos. 
7, 8; Hist. MSS. Comm., Duke of Rutland, iv, 116; and for the custody Red 
Bk. of Exch., pp. cclxxiii-v, and Pipe Roll 18 Hen. II, p. 30). He was a bene- 
factor of the priories of Carrow and Clerkenwell (Mon. Ang., iv, pp. 68, 85) 

13 P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15413; and also another in Chartulary, f. 27V 
(S.#.5.,; 1, 53). 

14 See also the pedigree of Valognes in H.K.F., iii, 393, based on the 


Binham Chartulary. This Peter was Peter II, eldest son of Roger who was 
son and heir of Peter de Valognes I, 


wk WRN 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 29 


Dersingham, Norfolk, which formed part of the barony of Valognes, 
where it is stated that Peter the eldest of three Valognes brothers 
had held the land and died without an heir of his body, and he 
had a certain wife Gundreda de Waranna who had held the land 
for her life in the name of dower; and the judgment shows that 
the land had descended to the issue of Robert, Peter’s next brother, 
and that the ultimate heirs were the granddaughters of Philip 
the third brother.1 The statement relating to Gundreda is con- 
firmed by a return of 1219, where it is said that dame Gundreda 
de Warenne was then in the king’s gift, holding land in Dersingham 
to the value of 301.2, At Michaelmas 1160 Robert de Valognes 
rendered account of 200 marks for his land,? showing that Peter 
his elder brother was then dead; and in his carta of 1166 Robert 
stated that Peter had given to his wife Gundrea a knight’s fee of 
new feoffment for her life.‘ 7 

_ Gundreda’s second husband was William de Curcy III, who 
died in 1171:5 and she was the mother of William de Curcy IV, 
who, although he was stated to be aged 20 in 1185,° appears to 
have come of age in 1189.7 She also had a daughter Alice who 
became heir to the honour of Curcy on the death of William de 
Curcy IV, her brother, without issue c. 1194.8 Gundreda held in 
dower Nuneham Courtney, co. Oxford, which was a member of 
the honour of Curcy. In 1219 her land there was worth 15/7. yearly.? 
In Trinity term 1194 there had been an assize of darrein. present- 
ment relating to the church there, the advowson of which Gundreda 
de Warenne claimed against the abbot of Abingdon; and Henry de 
Godham, steward of Warin son of Gerold? said that the advowson 
was the inheritance of the wife of his lord! On 6 Dec. 1224 the 
sheriff of Oxfordshire was ordered to take into the king’s hand 
the vill of Nuneham which Gundreda de Warenne had held in 
dower, and which was the inheritance of Joan wife of Hugh de 
Neville and Margaret wife of Faukes de Breauté. This entry 
indicates that Gundreda had died quite recently. 


1 Bracton's Note Book, no. 1128. The case was first pd. in 1882 by James 
Greenstreet in Notes and Queries, 6th ser., v, 143; cf. J. H. Round in Ancestor, 
xi, 130. 

The inheritance of Robert de Valognes passed to his granddaughter 
Christine countess of Essex; and on her death in 1232 the inheritance 
passed to the three daughters and coheirs of William de Valognes (d. 1219), 
son and heir of Philip de Valognes (d. 1215), named above, who was chamber- 
lain of the king of Scotland (Complete Peerage, new ed., vol. v, pp. 132-4). 
Bk. of Fees, p. 278; and for further details see H.K.F., ili, pp. 120-1. 
Pipe Roll 6 Hen. IT, p. 11. 4 Red Bk. of Exch., p. 362. 

E.Y.C., iii, pp. 469-71; H.K.F., i, pp. 106, 112. 
Rot. de Dominabus, Pipe Roll Soc., p. 73. 
dks ili, Prthls 
Ibid. and H.K.F., i, 108. For Alice’s marriages and daughters see the 
pedigree in E.Y.C., iii, p. 470. 
9 Bk. of Fees, p. 252. 

10 Second husband of Alice, Gundreda’s daughter. 

11 Rot. Cur. Regis, Pipe Roll Soc. vol. xiv, p. 35. ‘ 

12 Exc. e Rot. Fin., i, 123. Joan and Margaret were the two daughters 
of Alice, Gundreda‘s daughter. Margaret, who had first married Baldwin de 
Reviers, held Nuneham for a kt’s fee in 1236 (BR. of Fees, p. 587). 


anN Dn A WwW WD 


30 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Gundreda’s third husband was Geoffrey Hose or de la Huse. 
He was sheriff of Oxfordshire from 1179 to 1182,} and died bet- 
ween Michaelmas 1192? and Michaelmas 1193, when William de 
Warenne [of Wormegay] paid 22/7. 17s. in Wiltshire for the issue 
of the land which had belonged to Geoffrey Hose, and which he 
had in custody.2 The custody passed to Robert de Tresgoz;* and 
on 11 June 1199 king John granted to Gundreda de Warenne, 
formerly wife of Geoffrey Hose (Hosatus), for 200 marks of silver, 
the custody and marriage of Geoffrey his son and heir, with all 
his land until he attained age.® Gundreda issued a charter con- 
firming to the priory of St. Denis near Southampton the church 
of Little Fakenham [Suffolk], which was of her maritagium, as 
Geoffrey Hose her husband had given it.* In 1219 Gundreda held 
land in the hundred of Blackbourn, in which Little Fakenham lay, 
worth 10. yearly;? and on 9 May 1225 the sheriff of Suffolk was 
orderd to give Hugh de Neville and Joan his wife and Margaret 
de Reviers seisin of the land in Fakenham of which Gundreda de 
Warenne was seised at her death, and which belonged to Joan 
and Margaret by inheritance.® 

It is unfortunate that the history of Little Fakenham, which 
Gundreda received as a maritagium, does not give a proof of her 
parentage. In 1086 Fakenham, Suffolk, was held by Peter de 
Valognes, who held a tenancy in Little Fakenham of the abbey of 
Bury St. Edmunds; and in 1236 Margaret de Reviers, mentioned 
above (she being a granddaughter of Gundreda by her second 
husband), held 12 fees in Little Fakenham and elsewhere of the 
barony of Valognes.1° The fact that Gundreda’s interest, in ad- 
dition to the statement that it arose from her manitagium, des- 
cended to her heirs by her second husband, rules out the possibility 
that it was due to dower from the lands of Peter de Valognes, her 
first husband. The only solution consonant with the evidence is 
that her father had held an under-tenancy of the Valognes family 
in Little Fakenham. There is no evidence that Reginald de Warenne 
of Wormegay had held such an under-tenancy; but certainly he had 
close associations with the Valognes family. At Shernborne, Nor- 
folk, where William de Warenne held land in 1086, and where 
Reginald gave his holding to Lewes priory, the Valognes family 


rn Pipe Roll 26 Hen. II, p. 25, and ensuing rolls; and cf. ibid. 3 Ric. JI, 
p. ; 

* When he owed scutage in Wilts. (ibid. 4 Ric. I, p. 283). 

3 Ibid. 5 Rie, I, p. 83, 

* Ibid. 10 Ric. I, p. 69. 

> Cartae Antiquae, Pipe Roll Soc. N.S. vol. xvii, no. 91. She owed the 
sum at Mich. 1199, though Tresgoz temporarily retained the custody (Pipe 
Roll’) John, p. 178; Rot. de Obl., p. 8); and completed payment at Mich. 
1202 (Pipe Roll 4 John, p. 124). 

° -Harl. Ch. 57 E. 24; pd. in Mon. Ang., vi, 214. See further details in 
H.K.F., iii, 34. 7 | 

’ Bk. of Fees, p. 282. 

8 Rot. Claus., i, 37a, 

° D.B:, ii, 367b 4420: 

10 Bk. of Fees, p. 579. 

11 Chartulary, £727Y (S882, $2): 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 31 


had also an interest, derived from the holding of Peter de Valognes 
there in 1086.1 Further, Reginald de Warenne, in the lifetime of 
his brother the third earl, was a benefactor of the Valognes founda- 
tion of Binham priory;? and he was the first witness, together with 
Alice his wife and Ralph de Belfoc, his steward, to a charter issued 
to that house. Moreover, the Valognes family, in addition to 
their tenancy in chief, had a tenancy of the honour of Warenne in 
Norfolk.4 It can be suggested that Peter de Valognes II succeeded 
as a minor, and that Reginald de Warenne, who took a leading 
part in the administration of the Warenne estates was granted 
the custody of Peter and married him to his daughter, and that 
on the assumption that he held a Valognes under-tenancy in 
Little Fakenham gave it to her as a maritagium, which eventually 
descended to her issue by her second husband. 

It has been shown above that Gundreda died in 1224. As 
her first husband, Peter de Valognes, was dead at Michaelmas 
1160, she must have married him as a child. Her son William de 
Curcy IV appears to have been born c. 1165-68; and it is reasonable 
to place Gundreda’s birth as c. 1147. There is, therefore, no 
chronological difficulty in supposing that she was a daughter of 
Reginald de Warenne, who, as suggested above, was born ¢. 
1121-25. It is not without significance that Gundreda’s daughter 
Alice had the same christian name as Alice de Wormegay, Regi- 
nald de Warenne’s wife; and that Reginald’s son William, who as 
noted above had the land of Geoffrey Hose, Gundreda’s third 
husband, in his custody in 1193, issued a charter to Lewes priory 
which was witnessed by William de Curci [IV],° who, if Gundreda 
was the grantor’s sister, would have been his nephew.® 


(b) In 1214 there was an assize of darrein presentment to the 
church of East Tuddenham, Norfolk, between the prior of Worme- 
gay and Alice de Warenne.” In the previous year the prior had 
given a palfrey for having a writ for this assize, when the de- 
fendant was described as Alice widow of Peter the constable.* 
East Tuddenham was a member of the honour of Wormegay, where 
in 1232-33 Peter de Meltone Constab’ held a knight’s fee of that 
honour,® an interest which passed to the heirs of the Melton alas 


PL, Bi, Hi, a1. 

2 Mon. Ang., iii, 343, quoting the Binham Chartulary. 

3 Douglas, Feudal Documents from the Abbey of Bury St. Edmunds, 
introd. p. lxxxvn, transcript from the same, f. 121. 

tH AK. F., ii, 393: 

5 Chartulary, f. 30V (S.R.S., i, 50). 

6 The question of Gundreda’s parentage was the subject of a con- 
siderable correspondence with the late Mr. L. C. Loyd, who was engaged 
on an annotation to Harl. Ch. 57E. 24 (mentioned above), of which there 
is a copy in the Hatton Book of Seals, no. 219. We had independently come 
to the same conclusion, and additional evidence mutually supplied removed 
any lingering doubt, though a definite proof was not forthcoming. 

7 Curia Regis Rolls, vii, pp. 55-6. 

8 Rot. de Fin., p. 498. Peter can be identified as the Peter de Mealton 
who was sheriff of Norfolk and Suffolk from 1200-1203. 

9 Bk. of Fees, p. 1466. 


32 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Constable family.1 These references suggest that this interest had 
been acquired by the marriage of Peter the constable to Alice de 
Warenne, and that it had formed her maritagium. There can be 
little doubt that her father was Reginald de Warenne, and that 
she was named Alice after her mother Alice de Wormegay. 


It is probable that Reginald de Warenne had a third daughter 
named Muriel who became a nun at Carrow priory when William de 


Warenne, her brother, made a gift to that house of land in Stow 
Bardolph.? 


WILLIAM DE WARENNE, son and heir of Reginald de Warenne 
and Alice de Wormegay. At Michaelmas 1180 he rendered account 
of 200 marks for the fine of the land of Wormegay made by his 
mother with the king, and 166/i. 13s. 4d. for the fine made by his 
father for the same land, a total of 300/7., of which he paid 55/1. 11s.; 
and he also owed the smaller sums of 3s. 4d. and 10s. due from his 
father. He thus replaced his mother who had accounted for these 
payments in the previous year. Payment of the larger debts was 
made by instalments and completed by Michaelmas 1189;* and the 
smaller sums were still due at Michaelmas 1203, the debtor being 
sometimes named William de Wormegay.® At Michaelmas 1190 
he owed 7/1. 2s. 6d. scutage in Norfolk and Suffolk for knights of 
the honour of Wormegay,* representing a holding of 14} knights’ fees; 
and in subsequent years his scutage was based on the same holding.’ 
He was a king’s justice, serving as a justice itinerant and at 
Westminster during the period 1192 onwards;* and was appointed 
a justice of the Jews in 1200, the latest reference to him as such 
being on 24 March 1207-8.9 From 1194 to 1196 he held a part of 
the honour of Gloucester in custody;!° and he occurs as a witness 
to several royal charters issued by Richard I and John." 
In 1186 he agreed with Samson abbot of Bury St. Edmunds 
to recognize 60s. rent and 2000 eels as frankalmoin of the abbey 
in his mills of Wormegay as of the gift of his ancestors;” and he 
was probably the founder of Wormegay priory, among his bene- 
factions to that house being land in Narborough, Norfolk. Besides 
1 Blomefield and Parkin, Norfolk, v, 1221. 2 Mon. Ang., iv, 68. 
3 Pipe Roll 26 Hen. II, pp. 16-7. “Tiid-t Ric. 1p. 433 
° Ibid. 5 John, p. 237, and the intervening rolls. 
© diid. 2 Rte lp. 102: 
7 e.g. tbid. 5 John, p. 243. 
8 Pipe Roll 5 Ric. I, pp. xxv, 7; and several references on the succeeding 
rolls and in Feet of Fines; cf. also Curia Regis Rolls, i, pp. 128, 177; iii, 210. 
An account of his judicial career is given in Foss, Judges, ii, 128. 
° Rot. Chart., p. 61a; Rot. de Obl., p. 92; Rot. Claus., i, 107b. 

tO Pipe Roll 6 Ric. I, p. 240; ibid. 8 Ric. I, p. 110. 

11 Fig. in 1194 (Anc. Charters, Pipe Roll Soc., no. 62), 1197 (Cal. Ch. 
Rolls, 1300-26, p. 481), 1199 and 1204 (Rot. Chart., pp. 23b, 130b). 

12 Douglas, Feudal Documents from the Abbey of Bury St. Edmunds, 
no. 229. 13 Mon; Ang axa, ool; 

14 Cal. Close Rolls, 1330-33, p. 468, where the land is described ‘of the 
gift and feoffment of William de Warenna, son of Reginald de Warenna, 
formerly lord of Wirmegeye, founder of the said house’—a phrase which by 
itself makes it doubtful whether William or his father was the founder. 


THE WARENNE FAMILY RS 


the honour of Wormegay inherited from his mother, he inherited 
his father’s holdings of the honour of Warenne, and in particular 
the under-tenancy at Harthill. On 24 Jan. 1190-1 he quitclaimed 
to Lewes priory the advowson of Harthill in exchange for a quit- 
claim of that of Portslade, Sussex; and he gave to the priory 
land in Brighton (Brittelmeston’) in exchange for the mill of 
Newhaven (Mechinges) which his father had given when he 
became a monk at Lewes.? 

He gave to the priory of Southwark with his body [for burial] 
60 acres of land in Fortiscrea [Foots Cray, Kent] called Wadeland, 
for the souls of Reginald his father, Alice his mother, Beatrice his 
wife, and Reginald their son and Beatrice and Isabel their 
daughters.® 

Beatrice, who was his first wife, is said to have been a 

daughter of Hugh de Pierrepont;* and of their children Beatrice 
alone survived him.° 

In 1203 William married, secondly, Milisent widow of 
Richard de Montfichet.* At Michaelmas of that year he owed 500 
marks, being 400 marks for her as his wife and 100 marks for her 
dower;? and Roger de Lascy, constable of Chester, owed 1000/2. 
for having the custody of the land and heirs of Richard de Mont- 
fichet, the marriage of the heirs remaining with the king.* On 
13 Oct. 1203 the king gave orders that as William de Warenne had 
made a fine of 100 marks for Milisent’s reasonable dower it should 
be assigned to her when the constable of Chester came to England, 
if she had not already received it.® She was still living on 18 March 
1234-5 when an inquisition was orderd to be made in Norfolk of 
the knights’ fees which had belonged to William de Warenne, her 
husband, and which had been assigned to her in dower.” 

William de Warenne, who was alive in 1208, died before 
Michaelmas in the following year. 


1 Charter no. 112. 

2 Chartulary, ff. 30%, 120% (S.R.S., 1, 55; ii, 50). 

3 Mon. Ang., vi, 171. No explanation of his interest in Foots Cray 
appears to be available. 

4 Hunter, South Yorkshire, i, 140; Complete Peerage, new ed., vil, 
141; but no authority for her parentage is given. 

5 Reginald and Isabel are mentioned in their sister Beatrice’s charter 
to Southwark (see below). Hunter, Joc. cit., in a pedigree which certainly in 
other ways is subject to amendment gives Geoffrey de Merley as a husband 
for Isabel; whether this is true or not, she had no issue. References to 
Geoffrey de Merley and his family in H.K.F., iii, 442 do not support such a 
marriage. 

6 Sheriff of Essex and Herts. from 1200 (Rot. de Obl., p. 93). He was of 
Stansted Mountfichet, Essex; see Morant, Essex, ii, 576. 

7 Pipe Roll 6 John, p. 242, ‘as contained in the preceding roll’, though 
the entry does not occur in ibid. 5 John. He was pardoned 200 marks of the 
400 (ibid. 6 John, p. 246); and made a payment on account at Mich. 1208 
(ibid. 10 John, p. 7). 

8 Ibid. 5 John, p. 132. 

9 Rot. Pat., p. 35a. 

10 Close Rolls, 1234-37, p. 59; cf. ibid., 1231-34, p. 191. 


34 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


BEATRICE DE WARENNE, sole heir to her father at his death. 
At Michaelmas 1209 she accounted for 3100 marks to be paid 
within four years for having her father’s lands and tenements 
which were her inheritance, and her reasonable dower from the 
tenements of Doun Bardolf formerly her husband, and that she 
should not be distrained to marry, and that her father’s debts due 
to the king should be paid from the chattels belonging to her father 
and to Milisent her father’s wife on the day of his death.1 She occurs 
as the widow of Doun Bardolf on 13 March 1204-5, when Rusking- 
ton, co. Lincoln, was assigned for her dower from his lands.? 

Described as Beatrice daughter of William de Warenne she 
issued a charter to the priory of Southwark, in her widowhood - 
after the death of Ralph her husband, confirming her father’s gift 
of 60 acres of land in Fortiscrea [Foots Cray], for the health of 
Reginald de Warenne her grandfather, Alice her grandmother, 
William her father, Beatrice her mother, Reginald her brother, 
whose body rested at Southwark, Isabel her sister, and her own. 
This charter, evidently issued after her father’s death, shows in 
conjunction with the Pipe Roll entry that in or after the year 
ending at Michaelmas 1209 she married as her second husband a 
certain Ralph. This marriage was of short duration; for soon after- 
wards she married Hubert de Burgh as his first wife;* and as his 
wife she died shortly before 18 Dec. 1214.° ; 

Reference to her fine of 1209 is made in a charter of 22 July 
1227 to Hubert, then earl of Kent, acquitting him of 684/17. 6s. 84. 
on account of the fine made with king John by Beatrice late his 
wife, by whom he had children, the sum to be recovered from 
Beatrice’s heir when he should obtain her lands after Hubert’s 
death.¢ This heir was William son of her first husband Doun 
Bardolf; and on 29 August 1215 the sheriff of Nottinghamshire was 
ordered to give him seisin of the lands and tenements of his in- 
heritance.? That referred only to his father’s land; and it was not 
until the death of Hubert de Burgh in 1243 that he obtained 
possession of his mother’s inheritance. On 7 July of that year the 
king restored to William Bardulf, son and heir of Beatrice de 
Warenne, the honour of Wormegay which Hubert de Burgh, 
formerly earl of Kent, had held for life.6 William Bardolf, who 


1 Pipe Roll 11 John, m. 5d (Norfolk and Suffolk), in Madox, Exchequer, 
i, 490n. 

2 Rot. Claus., i, 22b, where ‘Biskinton’ is evidently an error for ‘Riskin- 
ton’, i.e. Ruskington, where in 1242-43, Beatrice’s son William Bardolf 
held a kt’s fee of old feoffment (Bk. of Fees, p. 1024). 

3 Mon. Ang., vi, 171. For her father’s charter see above. 

* Complete Peerage, new ed., vii, 141, for this and Hubert’s subsequent 
marriages; and cf. E.H.R., 1, 426. 5 Rot. Claus., i, 181b. 

® Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1226-57, p. 54. Cf. the entry from Pipe Roll 11 Hen. 
ILL in Madox, Exchequer, ii, 214n. *. Rot. Claus, ty 2472. 

8 Close Rolls, 1242-47, p. 110. Among the lands restored to Hubert in 
1232 were Beatrice’s lands in Wormegay and elsewhere in Norfolk and 
Suffolk, Fletching and Portslade in Sussex (honour of Warenne), and Harthill, 
co. York (ibid., 1231-34, p. 166). Hubert’s interest in Harthill is shown 
in the case of 1225 relating to the advowson (see the note to charter no. 
110 below). 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 35 


died in 1275, was the grandfather of Hugh Bardolf of Wormegay, 
who was summoned to Parliament from 1299 to 1302, and whose 
descendants in the male line, holders of the barony of Bardolf, 
continued to hold Wormegay until early in the fifteenth century." 
This family also inherited the under-tenancy at Harthill.’ 

By her husband Hubert de Burgh Beatrice had issue a son 
John who was knighted on 3 June 1229; but when Hubert was 
created earl of Kent on 19 Feb. 1226-7 it appears that John, 
though his son and heir, was excluded from the succession to the 
earldom in favour of Hubert’s issue by his third wife, Margaret 
of Scotland. In 1241 John owed relief for the manor of Portslade 
which Margery his [half] sistert had held of earl de Warenne;? 
and when he died shortly before 7 Jan. 1273-4 he held the manor 
of Sir William Bardulf.6 He was succeeded by his son John de 
Burgh the younger, who at his death shortly before 3 March 1279- 
80 held the manor of Portslade of Sir William Bardulf by the 
service of 10 knights’ fees and doing suit at the earl’s court at 
Lewes; and who left three daughters Dervorguilla wife of Sir 
Robert FitzWalter,? Hawise wife of Sir Robert de Grelley,* and 
Margery a nun at Chicksands priory.? The mother of his three 
daughters was Cecily daughter of John Baliol and Dervorguilla 
his wife, and sister of John Baliol, king of Scotland.!® Portslade 
fell to the share of Hawise, and passed eventually to her daughter 
Joan and her husband John, Lord de la Warr.” 


§3. 
SOME OTHER BRANCHES OF THE WARENNE FAMILY 


(i) THE WARENNES OF WHITCHURCH 


This family, which sometimes used the name of Warenne, 
but was more usually known by the names de Albo Monasterio® 


1 Complete Peerage, new ed., i, pp. 417 et seq. 

2 See the note to charter no. 111. 

3 Complete Peerage, new ed., vii, pp. 137, 142: 

+ Dau. of Hubert de Burgh by his third wife, Margaret of Scotland; she 
had been given the manor by her father (Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1226-57, pp. 60, 81). 

5 Exc. e Rot. Fin., i, pp. 342, 344. 6 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, Nos. 82, 142. 

7 Summoned to Parliament, 1295-1325 (Complete Peerage, new ed.,v, 473). 

8 For this family see ibid., vi, 107. ° Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 349. 

10 Pedigree of Baliol in N orthumberland County Hist., vi, 73; cf. Complete 
Peerage, new ed., v, 474. 

11 V.C.H. Sussex, vii, 283, giving the further descent in the de la Warr 
family. 

12 Album Monasterium or Whitchurch, Shropshire, superseded the 
name Westune by which the place was known at the Domesday survey. 
Two examples need only be given of the use of the name Warenne by this 
family. In 1238 William de Warenne of Whitchurch (de Albo Monasterio) 
was summoned to Oxford (Close Rolls, 1237-42, p. 124); he was described as 
William de Albo Monasterio in 1242-43 (Bk. of Fees, p. 919). On 1 April 1246 
William son and heir of William de Warenne of Whitchurch made a fine for 
20 marks for his relief for the lands which he ought to hold of the heir of 
William formerly earl de Warenne, who was in the kg’s custody (Exc. e 
Rot. Fin., i, 450); and in 1246-48 the description was Sir William de Blanc- 
moster (BR. of Fees, p. 1161). 


36 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


or Blancmoster, was descended from a certain William son of 
Ranulf living in the last half of the twelfth century.1 Eyton 
has given an account of the family,” and cited a charter, by which 
‘Willielmus de Warein filius Randulfi, with the assent of his 
heirs, gave a moiety of the church of Halstead, Essex, to Lilles- 
hall abbey, Shropshire, for the health of his soul and of Emma 
his wife. He is evidently the same man as William son of Rannulf, 
who was engaged in a suit relating to that church in 1198-1200, the 
dispute being settled by a fine in the king’s court.4 As William 
son of Ranulf he gave to Combermere abbey, for the souls of his 
parents and all his ancestors, and for the welfare of himself, his 
wife and sons and of Reinald de Warenne, land marching with that. 
of William Malbenc in the neighbourhood of Combermere.® 
Farrer has given an account of the lands held by the Blanc- 
moster family as a fee of the honour of Warenne.® They included 
Westune, later Whitchurch, Shropshire, which William de Warenne 
held of Roger de Montgomery in 1086; and lands in Great Easton, 
Little Canfield, Halstead and Manewden, Essex; in Middleton, 
Suffolk; and in several places in Norfolk, all of which had been 
held by William de Warenne in chief in 1086. He cited a 
charter in the Lewes Chartulary by which William son of Ranulf 
confirmed to Lewes the church of Caneueld [Little Canfield, Essex] 
and tithe of the demesne, as the earls de Warenne his ancestors, 
founders of the church, had previously given and confirmed it, 
which he had sworn to observe at the hands of Hubert, prior of 
Lewes.” This William son of Ranulf can certainly be identified as 
the ancestor of the Blancmoster family, for at the death of Bertreya, 
one of the four daughters and heirs of William de Blancmoster, 
shortly before 11 Feb. 1280-1 it was found that she had held, not 
only a fourth part of the manor of Whitchurch (Blaminister), 
held of earl de Warenne by service of a fourth part of a huntsman 
to the earl at his will and cost, but also 1} knights’ fees held of the 
earl in Essex at Great Easton and Little Canfield;§ and in Hilary 
term 1290-1 Joan widow of William de Barentyne, one of her sisters, 


1 The earliest reference given by Eyton showing William son of Ranulf’s 
specific connexion with Whitchurch is a payment of 10 marks made to him 
in the year ending at Mich. 1199 for the repair of his castle de Albo Monasterio 
(Pipe Roll 1 John, Shropshire, p. 73); but he shows that a William son of 
Randulf was a pledge in Shropshire in 1176 for Robert de Hichtefeld (Pipe 
Roll 22 Henry II, p. 56); Hichtefeld being the neighbouring vill of Ightfield. 
: 2 Antiquities of Shropshire, vol. x, pp. 14 et seq. See also Farrer’s account 
in H.K.F., ii, pp. 370-5. 

3 Eyton, p. 17, from Lilleshall Chartulary, f. 75. 

Ns Rot. Cur. Regis, vol. i, pp. 270, 309, 388; vol. ii, pp. 57, 224; Curia 
Regis Rolls, vol. i, pp. 60, 130, 177. 

5 Mon. Ang., v, 326. Eyton, p. 18, states that the charter was earlier 
than 1186 when William Malbanc was dead. Reinald de Warenne may be 
Reginald de Warenne of Wormegay who became a monk at Lewes in 1178-79 
(see above, p. 27). _Combermere, Cheshire, is about 3 miles north-east of 
Whitchurch. 

° H.K.F., iii, pp. 370 et seq. 

’ Chartulary, f. 307 (S.R.S., ii, 118). 

8 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 387. 


THE WARENNE FAMILY oF 


was an unsuccessful party against the prior of Lewes in an assize 
of darrein presentment to the church of Little Canfield. 

In the supposed general charter of the second earl de Warenne 
to Lewes priory the following clause occurs : ‘Concessi etiam et 
confirmavi ecclesiam de Kaneuelde cum una virgata terre Et 
totam decimam de dominio aule et feni et decimam de Estana Et 
apud Gelham decimam terre Godwini Et decimam de Midelton’ 
ex dono Willelmi filii Ran{ulfi] Et unam virgam terre quam tenuit 
Gladio joculator de dono Ran{ulfi] de Warenna.” The places 
mentioned are Little Canfield, Great Easton and Yeldham, all in 
Essex, and Middleton, Suffolk. Although this charter has been 
found to be a fabrication’ there 1s no reason to suppose that these 
gifts were not duly made to the priory. Indeed, the churches of 
Great and Little Canfield and a carucate of land in [Great] Easton 
are included in the list of possessions confirmed by Ralph, arch- 
bishop of Canterbury, in 1121;° and in a list of benefactions to the 
priory there are included gifts ad Estunam by Rannulfus de Warenna 
of a virgate of land, and ad Gelham by William son of Rannulfus 
of the tithe of land held by Godvinus.® 

There appears, therefore, to be reasonably good evidence for 
the existence of a man named Ranulf, a member of the Warenne 
family, and. of a man named William son of Ranulf, who occurs 
(in the Lilleshall chartulary) under the name ‘Willielmus de Warein 
filius Randulfi’, and whose descendants occasionally used the name 
of Warenne. The difficulty is to make any adequate suggestion for 
Ranulf’s identity. Eyton suggested that he was Ralph de Warenne, 
second son of the second earl;? and Farrer accepted this sug- 
gestion.’ The details known about Ralph are mainly confined to 
mentions made of him in his father’s charters or as a witness to 
charters issued by his brother the third earl.? His name is invariably 
given as Radulfus, and never as Ranulfus, a name which is usually 
quite distinct. It is difficult to accept this identification without 
corroborative evidence. There is one clue which may, perhaps, 
lead to the identification of Ranulf de Warenne. This is the fact 
that in Middleton, Suffolk, one of the places which composed the 
Blancmoster fee, where, as noted above, apparently tithe was 


1 Chartulary, f. 309 (S.R.S., ii, 123). Her son Drew de Barentyne was 
similarly unsuccessful (2b7d.). * Chartulary, f°137 (S.H#-S., 4 13): 

3 H.K.F., iii, pp. 310, 371. There is to-day in Great Easton a 
Blamster’s Hall, named after the Blancmoster family; see Morant, Essex, ii, 
434. 4 See the note to charter no. 6 below. 

5 Ancient Charters, Pipe Roll Soc., no. 8. 

6 Mon. Ang., v, 14b. Although these gifts are headed Norfolk, there 
can be no doubt that the places are Great Easton and Yeldham. 

Opec Pp. 15. 

8 H.K.F., iii, 371. He considered William to be the same man as William 
son of Randulf who witnessed a charter of William, fourth earl de Warenne, 
to Sawtrey abbey, c. 1154 (Brit. Mus. Facsimiles, no. 37). If so it is scarcely 
possible on chronological grounds for his father to have been a brother of the 
third earl. 9 See p. 10 above. 

10 In 1268-9 the manor and advowson of Middleton, Suffolk, was held 
at his death by William de Criketot of William de Blanmoster in chief by the 
service of one kt (Cal. Inq. p.m., i, no. 704). 


38 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


given to Lewes by William son of Ranulf, the Domesday tenant 
of William de Warenne was a certain Ranulf ‘nepos.’ Nothing is 
known of this man; and he does not appear, at all events with that 
description, elsewhere in the Survey as an under-tenant.* It would 
be rash, in the absence of other evidence, to suppose that he was 
a nephew of the first earl; but, in view of all the circumstances, it is 
not impossible. At the same time there is an obvious difficulty in 
suggesting that a man who occurs in the Domesday survey was the 
father of the William son of Ranulf who lived beyond the year 1200.” 
There is, however, room for an intervening William and Ranulf, 
though no evidence for their existence is at present available. 


(ii) THE FAMILY OF BURNHAM 


A family deriving its name from Burnham Thorpe, Norfolk, 
was descended from Philip, the father of the Walter son of Philip 
who made the last presentation to the church there in the reign of 
Stephen, as the jurors recorded when Philip de Burnham success- 
fully claimed the church against the prior of Lewes in 1198. 
The Domesday tenant of William de Warenne in Burnham Thorpe 
was Walter,4 who can be identified as Walter de Grandcourt;° 
and it is recorded that he gave to Lewes priory two churches in 
Burnham Thorpe with lands and tithes, all of which Philip de 
Warenne was holding for 2 marks of silver for his life.6 Nothing 
appears to be known of Philip de Warenne, whose name does not 
occur in any of the early charters which have been examined; but 
it is not unlikely that he can be identified with Philip, the ancestor 
of the Burnham family. It is possible, therefore, that the latter 
was of Warenne descent, either on his father’s or his mother’s 
side.? A gift of William son of Philip to his brother Reginald of 
half his land in Harpley, Norfolk, was confirmed by the third earl 
in 1146-47.8 He was presumably the brother of Walter son of 
Philip, mentioned above. His remaining interest in Harpley 


1 Ellis, Introduction to Domesday, ii, 375. 

2 Reference to him in 1198-1200 has been given above; and he appears 
to have been alive in 1203 when he was engaged in a suit in Essex with the 
prior of Lewes (Cuvia Regis Rolls, iii, 16). 

3 Rot. Cur. Regis, i, 141; a fuller entry than in Abbr. Plac., p. 6b. 

* V.C.H. Norfolk, ii, 91. 

5 H.K.F., iii, 389, where Farrer (pp. 390-2) gives an account of the 
Burnham family; and also p. 437. For Walter de Grandcourt see charter 
no. 12 below. 

6 This is entered on a stray folio of a 12th century register of the priory 
in P.R.O. (Exch. K.R. Eccl., bundle 2, no. 40); the record is almost identical 
with one among the more detailed records of benefactions pd. in Mon. Ang., 
v, 14b and taken from a later source. 

7 In Blomefield and Parkin, Norfolk, iii, 730, there is a reference to 
some accounts that the Burnhams descended from a cousin german of ear] 
Hamelin; the suggestion there made that they descended from Walter the 
Domesday tenant cannot be accepted. D. Gurney in Record of the House 
of Gournay, p. 311, supposed that they descended from Reginald son of 
William de Warenne I, suggesting that Philip was Reginald’s son; but for 
this there is no confirmatory evidence, and it is very unlikely to be true. 

8 Charter no. 47. Harpley was also held by Walter [de Grandcourt} 
of William de Warenne at the Survey; see H.K.F., iii, 389. 


THE WARENNE FAMILY 39 


descended to his son Philip de Burnham, whose grand-daughter 
Cecily, plaintiff in a case in 1276, gave her detailed descent from the 
elder Philip de Burnham, temp. Stephen, and his son William, her 
great-grandfather.! She was the ancestress of the Calthorpe family 
of Burnham Thorpe.2 With regard to Reginald son of Philip, earl 
Hamelin gave his daughter Rose in marriage with her inheritance 
to Matthew de Gournay not later than 1184, her inheritance in 
Harpley being half a knight’s fee. In 1242-43 Cecily daughter 
of Philip de Burnham [III] and William de Gurney each held 
half a knight’s fee in Harpley of earl de Warenne.* 


(iii) HAMO SON OF MEINFELIN 


An entry in the Rotuli de Dominabus® states that Hamo son 
of Hamo son of Meinfelin’, whose father [Hamo] had died on the 
Friday before the Ascension [23 May 1185], was in the king’s 
custody and of the age of 20 years. . . and that he had married 
a wife at the king’s order ‘et est de progenie comitis Warenn’ ex 
parte patris, nepos Willelmi Mauduit ex parte matris.’* His 
father Hamo son of Meinfelin returned his carta from Buck- 
inghamshire in 1166, in which he recorded his service of 15 
knights due to the king.? His holding constituted the barony of 
Wolverton; and the lands had been held at the Domesday survey 
by Maigno Brito. His father Meinfelin, the successor and prob- 
ably the son of Maigno,® occurs at Michaelmas 1130, having held 
the office of sheriff of Buckinghamshire and Bedfordshire.” 

The entry cited above is difficult to explain. It can scarcely 
refer to earl Hamelin who was earl de Warenne in 1185. [If it 
suggests that Hamo son of Meinfelin was descended from the earls 
de Warenne, it is possible that Meinfelin, who was himself apparent- 
ly of Breton descent, married an unrecorded daughter of the 
second earl. 

1 Blomefield and Parkin, of. cit., iv, 556; cited in H.K.F., iii, 391, with 

a pedigree, where it is suggested that William son of Philip was an error for 
Walter; but that is not so. 

4 HK, F., ii; pp. 391-2. 3 Notes to charter no. 47. 

4 Bk of Fees;'p. 906. 

5 Pipe Roll Soc. ed., pp. 38-9, where his land in Wolverton, co. Buck- 
ingham, is described; as is also his land in Wyke Hamon, co. Northampton, 
in another entry (p. 26), where his name is given as Hamund. Maud, his 
father’s widow, was aged 46 and in the king’s gift (¢bid., p. 39). 

6 In the original MS. (E. 198/1/2 r. 4d) the wording is ‘et d .é. de prog- 
enie com’ Warenn’.’ Whatever ‘d’ may signify, its omission in the printed 
text does not seem to alter any genealogical deduction that may be made. 

7 Red Bk. of Exch., p. 314; none of the names of his enfeoffed knights 
give a clue to the point now discussed. He had evidently succeeded his 
father before Mich. 1156 (Pipe Roll 2 Hen. II, p. 22). 

8 D.B., i, 151b; and V.C.H. Bucks., iv, 506, where there is an account 
of the family. 

9 As Mainfeninus Brito he witnessed a charter of king Stephen, 1136- 
39 (Salter, Oxford Charters, no. 66). — 

10 Pipe Roll 31 Hen. I, p. 100. 

11 Chronologically this is more likely than a dau. of the first earl; but 
almost certainly not a dau. of the second earl by his wife Isabel whom he did 
not marry until 1118; and therefore any such dau. would presumably be 
illegitimate or else the offspring of an unrecorded first marriage. 


40 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


On the other hand it is, perhaps, not without significance 
that in 1166 Hamo son of Meinfelin, in addition to his tenure in 
chief, held a knight’s fee of old feoffment of William earl of War- 
wick.1 This presumably included the half knight’s fee which 
in 1242-43 William son of Hamund (to whom the barony of 
Wolverton had descended) held of the earl of Warwick in Moreton.? 
Here there is a connexion which has a Warwick and not a Warenne 
flavour; and, although the suggestion must be put forward only 
tentatively, it is not impossible to suppose that Warenn’ in the 
entry in the Rotuli de Dominabus, perfectly clear as it is in the 
MS., may be a scribal error for Warewu{tc}.2 At the same time 
there is no clue to any blood relationship between Hamo son of. 
Meinfelin and the earl of Warwick in 1185, who was Waleran, 
brother of William, earl in 1166, and grandson of Henry de Beau- 
mont. 


APPENDIX A. 


GUNDREDA WIFE OF WILLIAM DE WARENNE THE FIRST 


There are probably few historical characters whose parentage 
has given rise to a greater measure of controversy. It is now 
generally accepted that Gundreda* was the daughter neither of 
William the Conqueror nor of queen Maud, and that it would be 
unwise to say more than that she was the sister of Gerbod earl of 
Chester and of a certain Frederic. 

The idea that their foundress was of royal blood was one 
which was not unnaturally supported by the monks of Lewes; 
and in the sixteenth century Leland, for instance, was certainly 
of the opinion that Gundreda was a daughter of king William.,° 
When, however, in the following century Dugdale wrote his account 
of the Warenne family for his Baronage,® he made no allusion 
to her supposed royal parentage; but, citing Orderic, stated that 
she was ‘Sister of Gherbode, a Fleming, to whom King William the 
First had given the City and Earldom of Chester.’ The passage 
from Orderic is as follows : ‘Rex Guillelmus . . . et Guillelmo de 
Guarenna, qui-Gundredam sororem Gherbodi conjugem habebat, 
dedit Sutregiam.’? This is confirmed from quite an independent 

1 Red Bk. of Exch., p. 326. 

2 Bk. of Fees, p. 956. The place seems to be either Hillmorton or Moreton 
Morrell, co. Warwick. 

3 Round in his Introduction to the Rotuli, p. xlvi, gives instances of con- 
fusion in proper names entered in the MS. An example of the confusion 
between Warenne and Warwick occurs in Bk. of Fees, p. 870. 

+ This is the spelling used in the original charter of William de Warenne 
and Gundreda his wife to Lewes priory (charter no. 2 in Chapter IT below). 
The Latin form Gundreda, preferred by Farrer, is used in the present volume, 
and not the anglicised form Gundred. 

5 Collectanea, ed. 1774, i, 238. 

ONG) 4). 0.743 

7 Orderic, ii, 221. Although any suggestion derived from this passage 
that William de Warenne was created earl of Surrey by king William I can- 
not be accepted, it is impossible to suppose that Orderic gave Gundreda’s 
relationship to Gerbod without first-rate authority. 


APPENDIX A Al 


source in the chronicle of Hyde abbey, where in a reference to the 
earl of Chester the writer states : ‘Quo tempore comes Cistrensis 
decessit Gerbodo, frater Gondrade comitisse, Flandriamque 
veniens .. .7 

Notwithstanding Dugdale’s statement the idea persisted at 
least to the year 1846 that Gundreda was a daughter of the 
Conqueror and queen Maud. Thus, for instance, it was accepted 
without hesitation by Sandford in his Genealogical H1story OL707);> 
by Watson in his Memoirs (1782)%,; by Brydges in his edition of 
Collins’s Peerage (1812); and by Ellis in his I ntroduction to 
Domesday Book.® 7 

In 1846 Stapleton wrote his well-known paper in the 
Archaeological Journal.’ In addition to the valuable material from 
Norman sources bearing on the parentage of William de Warenne 
himself7—though the material was more valuable than some of 
the deductions made—his most important theory for the present 
purpose was that Gundreda was the daughter, not of king William, 
but of. queen Maud by a former husband, an elder Gerbod, ad- 
vocate of Saint-Bertin, and so the sister of the younger Gerbod, 
earl of Chester.8 This theory was directly challenged by W. H. 
Blaauw in a paper which he read before the Society of Anti- 
quaries of London on 3 December 1846, and which was published 
in Archaeologia.? Although he reverted to the idea that Gundreda 
was a daughter of the Conqueror and queen Maud, his paper has 
many points of interest including a transcript of the original 
charter of William de Warenne and Gundreda to Cluny,’° thus 
made available to English readers for the first time. Freeman in 
his Norman Conquest, while disagreeing with Stapleton on other 
points, adopted his theory for Gundreda’s parentage in its entirety. 
“For a long while,” he wrote, “Gundrada was looked on as a 
daughter of William himself, but there is no doubt that both she 
and her brother Gerbod were the children of Matilda by her first 
husband.”’ | 

But an entirely new turn was given to the question by a 
discovery of R. E. Chester Waters. In the Academy of 28 Dec- 
ember 1878 he published a letter of St. Anselm; and he elaborated 


1 Chron. Mon. de Hida, Rolls Ser., p. 296; and cf. introd., p. XCVii. 

ae ane OD . 

SeVoOlri ppoT. 4 Vol. iv, p. 378. 

5 Vol. i, p. 507n. 

6 Vol. iii, pp. 1-26. It has the title ‘Observations in disproof of the 


pretended marriage of William de Warren, earl of Surrey, with a daughter 
begotten of Matildis, daughter of Baldwin, comte of Flanders, by William 
the Conqueror, and illustrative of the origin and early history of the family 
in Normandy.’ 
7 See charter no. 1 below and the note thereto. 
8 Incidentally there is no proof of this suggested parentage of the earl of 
Chester; see below. 
9 Vol. xxxii (1847), pp. 108-25. 
10 Charter no. 2; and for his examination of the original of no. 4 see the 
notes thereto. 
11 Vol. iii (2nd ed., 1875), p. 87; and in an appendix to the same vol., 
pp. 651 ef seg he examined Stapleton’s paper in detail. 


42 HONOUR_OF. WARENNE 


the results of this discovery in his pamphlet; ‘Gundrada de 
Warrenne,’ printed for him in. 1884.1 In this letter archbishop 
Anselm wrote to king Henry I, asking him to desist from pro- 
ceeding with a marriage contemplated between one of the king’s 
daughters and William de Warenne? in view of their relationship 
‘cum ipse et filia vestra ex una parte sint cognati in quarta genera- 
tione, et ex.altera in sexta.’? Waters gave a proof of how such a 
relationship was reckoned, and a tabular pedigree to indicate the 
links in the descent.4 He pointed out that, if Gundreda had been 
queen Maud’s daughter, her son and king Henry’s daughter would 
have been first cousins; and that the archbishop would not have 
objected to the marriage of two people who were first cousins: on 
the ground that they were related in a far more distant degree. 


Some there were, however, who remained unconvinced. Sir ~ 


George Duckett, to whom great credit is due for the valuable 
collection of Cluny documents which he made available in print, 
persisted in maintaining that Gundreda was a daughter of the 
Conqueror and queen Maud.* But in 1888 Freeman contributed 
to the English Historical Review? an article which proved to be 
the culminating point in the history of the controversy. After 
giving a detailed account of all the theories which had been .ad- 
vanced, he renounced completely his former views and the support 
that he had given to Stapleton’s theory that Gundreda was a step- 
daughter of the Conqueror. In particular he showed with force and 
magnanimity that he had not realized the importance of the 
original charter of William de Warenne and Gundreda, with the 
king’s confirmation, printed by Blaauw in 1847, in which neither 
king William nor William de Warenne, though they both mentioned 


* Exeter; pd. by William Pollard for the author. This, with slight altera-_ 
tions and additions, was the paper which he read at the Lewes meeting 
of the Archaeological Institute on 3 Aug. 1883; pd..in Arch. J ournal, vol. 
xli (1884). . "OF ea 

* 1.e. William de Warenne II, Gundreda’s son. cakeesaet 

° Among other places the full text is also pd. in Rec. des Hist... . de 
la France, xv, 67, from Lib. iv, ep. 84, where the date assigned is c. 1107. 

* The common descent was from the parents of duchess Gunnor, wife of 
Richard. I, duke of Normandy. A more accurate pedigree, though: the 
relationship is the same, is given by Mr. Loyd in his paper, ‘The Origin of the 
Family of Warenne’ in Y.A.J., xxxi, 108. . 

° Record-evidences among archives of ancient Abbey of Cluni, 1077-1534 
(pd. for the author, Lewes, 1886); expanded to Monasticon Cluniacense 
Anglicanum, or Charters and Records. . . of the ancient Abbey of Cluni. . . 
2 vols. (pd. for subscribers, Lewes, 1888). “ea 

° Among other papers he wrote one in the Yorks. Arch. Journal, vol. ix 
(1886) pp. 421-37, which, apart from some texts including the original charter 
of William de Warenne and Gundreda, and the Anselm letter, was worthy 
neither of the author nor of the Journal in which it appeared.. He satisfied 
himself that the word sovor used by..Orderic. meant ‘foster-sister,’ and he 
ignored the corroboration of the Hyde chronicler. He contributed two further 
papers to the same Journal—‘Gundreda, countess of Warenne: a parting 
word about her’ in vol. xii (1893), pp. 123-32; and ‘Gundreda de Warenne : 
final and conclusive evidence’ in vol. xv (1900); pp.. 428-33—in which he 
repeated his opinions unconvincingly. 

” ‘The Parentage of Gundrada, wife of William of Warren’ (vol. iii, 
pp. 680-701). facet EN Skule ce panes 


APPENDIX A 43 


Gundreda, made any reference to her relationship to the king or 
queen. He examined the Lewes documents once more and stated. 
that there was no ground either for the old belief that Gundreda 
was the daughter of king William and queen Maud, or for Staple- 
ton’s theory, which he had formerly adopted, that she was the 
daughter of the queen but not the daughter of the king. He con- 
cluded that ‘‘there is nothing to show that Gundrada was the 
daughter either of King William or of Queen Matilda; there is a 
great deal to show that she was not.” 

Freeman’s conclusions, based as they were mainly on the 
writings of Chester Waters, were adopted by Miss Norgate in her 
article ‘Gundrada de Warenne’ in the Dictionary of National 
Biography (1890), and also by G. E. C. in the Complete Peerage 
(1896)... More recently Farrer, who re-examined the various 
theories, was evidently of the opinion that Gundreda was the 
daughter neither of the king nor of the queen; and he suggested 
as a last alternative that she was an adopted daughter, being 
probably born c. 1055-1060 and thus of similar age to their child- 
ren.2. This suggestion might perhaps be modified to the effect 
that in view of Gundreda’s Flemish connexion she may have become 
in her early days a member of the household of queen Maud either 
before or after the Conquest. The only kind of evidence, however, 
for this is the record of a gift to Gundreda by queen Maud of the 
manor of Carlton [co. Cambridge], which Gundreda afterwards 
gave to Lewes priory.® 


It may now be convenient to summarize such evidence as 
has been used to support the theory that Gundreda was the 
daughter of the Conqueror or of queen Maud or of both. 


(2) In a document entered in the fifteenth-century char- 
tulary of Lewes priory, purporting to be the foundation charter 
of William de Warenne the first, these words occur: pro salute 
domine mee Matildis regine matris uxoris mee. This document is 
not the transcript of a genuine charter; and there is strong evidence 
to show that it was the copy of a compilation of a later date; see 
Appendix D in Chapter II. | 


(b) In a genuine charter of the Conqueror to Lewes priory 
there is an erasure after the mention of Gundreda over which 
has been written in a later hand the words ftlie mee. There is no 
evidence to show what words originally filled the space over 
which those words were written; see charter no. 4 in Chapter IT 
and the notes thereto. 


1 Ist ed., vol. vii, pp. 324-5, where there is a summary of the whole 
question, 

2 AK,F., mi, 298. 

3 See the record in the text given below. The gift to Gundreda is 
mentioned in the supposed foundation charter of the first earl and the general 
confirmation of the second earl; and although these documents cannot be 
accepted as genuine (see Appendix D in Chapter II and the note to charter 
no. 6), there is no reason to doubt that the gift was made. 


4d HONOUR OF WARENNE 


(c) In a list of benefactors and their gifts to the priory,} 
there is the clause : ) 
Karletuna quam dedit Matildis regina mater Henrici regis et 
Gundrede comitisse; et ipsa Gundreda dedit nobis : locata fuit pro x. 
libris. 
Chester Waters makes the convincing suggestion that the et before 
Gundred@ has been interpolated, and that Gundrede@ comitiss@ is 
the dative case governed by dedit.? | 

(Z) In the narrative pedigrees entered in the Lewes Char- 
tulary Gundreda is stated in four passages to have been the 
daughter of the Conqueror. These statements reflect the tradition 
which existed in the priory in the fifteenth century, and cannot 
be regarded as evidence of any value. 

(e) In the twelfth-century inscription on her tomb, which 
since 1775 has been in Southover church,‘ the opening words are 
‘Stirps Gundreda ducum.’ And it has been asked “Of what dukes 
could she be the issue or offspring but of those of Normandy ?’’ 
Such a question disregards the evidence based on the independent 
statements of Orderic and the Hyde chronicler that she was the 
sister of Gerbod and therefore Flemish by birth; and the possibility 
must not be overlooked that the word ducum, rather-than some 
such word as comitum, may have been used for the exigencies of 
an hexameter. | a>. Cedealle 

There are two further pieces of evidence which suggest a 
Flemish connexion for Gundreda. First, it is. recorded by the 
Hyde chronicler that at his death William de Warenne by the 
king’s decree made his two sons his heirs, namely William in 
England and Reginald in Flanders.* If this is true, it must be 
supposed that any interest possessed by William de Warenne in 
Flanders, thus given to a younger son, was due to his marriage. 

Secondly, there is the evidence concerning Frederic. It has 
been noted above (p. 3) that a large number of William de 
Warenne’s holdings in Norfolk are described in the Domesday 
survey as ‘de feudo Fedrici’; and it is recorded there that his 
holding in Trumpington, co. Cambridge, had been held sub- 
sequently to king Edward’s death by ‘Frederi frater Willelmi’.’ 
Frederic can be identified with the man of that name whom 
Hereward the outlaw is stated to have slain, being described by 
the Hyde chronicleras‘. . . Fredericum germanum comitis Willelmi 
de Warennia genere et possessionibus insignitum.’® The. date 

1 Mon. Ang., v, 14, ‘ex libro computorum, olim prioratui de Lewes 

spectante.’ 

2 Gundrada de Warrenne, p. 13. 

3 Ff. 105, 105, 107V, 108Y; translation in S.R.S., ii, pp. 14-5, 18-9. 

* For the inscription see V.C.H. Sussex, vii, 49. There is a good illus- 

tration in Watson, Memoirs, i, facing p. 60. a 

° Sir G. Duckett in Y.A./J., ix, 425. 

© See p. 6 above. 

7 D.B., i, 196b. 

* Chron. Mon. de Hida, ut sup., p. 295; cited by Freeman, Norman 
- Conquest, 2nd ed., iv, 470m, also citing Gesta Herewardi, though regarding 
neither authority as first-rate, . ey 


APPENDIX A.. . 45 


would be c. 1070. Mr. Loyd! has shown that it is most unlikely 
that, in view of his name, Frederic could have been a Norman; and, 
following Stapleton, was of the opinion that he was not the brother 
of William de Warenne, but his brother-in-law. Mr. Loyd also 
showed that it is reasonably clear that Frederic can be identified 
with the Frederic who witnessed next after count Baldwin of 
Flanders the younger a charter issued in 1067 by Guy count of 
Ponthieu to the abbey of St. Riquier, dio. Amiens;? a convincing 
clue for this identification being the fact that at the Domesday 
survey a carucate of land in Palgrave, Norfolk,? was held of 
William de Warenne by ‘Sanctus Ricarius’; and this was among 
the holdings ‘de fedo Federici’, suggesting that Frederic had been 
the donor of the land to St. Riquier. From a combination of the 
evidence it can be deduced that Frederic was Gundreda’s brother 
and that he was a Fleming. | 

One final point which may not be irrelevant can be men- 
tioned. Stapleton,* followed by Freeman,°® supposed that Gerbod 
earl of Chester held the hereditary office of advocate of the abbey 
of Saint-Bertin at St. Omer, having succeeded his father of the 
same name. There is in fact no proof of the earl of Chester's 
parentage; but it is supposed that he can be identified with a 
Gerbod advocate of Saint-Bertin.6 In this connexion there is a 
later piece of evidence which is worth noting. This is a charter of 
earl Hamelin to the abbey of Saint-Bertin, giving land in the parish 
of Roquetoire, nr. St. Omer, c. 1182, in which he is styled ‘Ham- 
elinfus] Dei gratia comes de Waringe et ecclesie beati Bertini 
advocatus.’? It would seem that his only connexion with Saint- 
Bertin could have been through his wife Isabel de Warenne, and 
due to the fact that she was the great-granddaughter of Gundreda, 
the earl of Chester’s sister. If so the style may tend to furnish 
evidence that Gundreda, and therefore her brother, was a member 
of the family which held the hereditary office of advocate, and that 
in some way, of which at present there is no proof,® the repre- 
sentation of the family passed to her heir. It is significant that in 
1096 a certain Arnulf sold to the abbey land in Roquetoire (the 


1 Y.A.f., xxi, pp. 112-3. 

2 Ibid., p. 113, where the witness clause is given. 

2) ve )aat; 16AL: 

+ Arch. Journal, ili, pp. 16-20. 

5 Norman Conquest, iii, 654, where the references to the name Gerbod 
in the printed Cartulairve de Saint-Bertin, Docs. Inédits, are examined; they 
extend from a Gerbodo the advocate in 1026 (p. 176). 

6 Complete Peerage, new ed., iii, 164, where, however, no evidence 
for the identification is given. 

7 Haigneré, Les Chartes de Saint-Bertin, i, no. 325. There is another, 
dated 1189, in which he is styled ‘Hamelinus Dei gratia Surreye et Gwaregne 
comes’, confirming a gift (no. 365). These references, primarily due to the 
account of Hamelin by Delisle in Actes de Henri II, Introduction, p. 379, 
have been kindly supplied by Monsieur G. Coulen of St. Omer. Haigneré 
gives other charters with references to lands near St. Omer held by-the earls 
de Warenne in the time of earl Hamelin and his son earl William. 

8 There seems to be a complete absence of evidence for the descent of the 
office of advocate in the first three-quarters of the twelfth century. 


46 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


very place where earl Hamelin made his gift nearly a hundred 
years later) which he and his brother Gerbod (not described as 
advocate) had inherited from their ancestors. 


APPENDIX B. 


CHARTERS OF KING HENRY I WITNESSED BY THE SECOND 
EARL WITHOUT THE COMITAL STYLE 


It has been noted above that there are seven charters (or 
writs) of Henry I which were witnessed by the second earl without 
the comital style. Two of them are or purport to be originals. 
The first is at Durham,? and the second in the Archives of Calvados.3 
Of the others, two are enrolled on the Charter Rolls;4 one on the 
Patent Roll;® one in the Registrum Magnum Album at York;® and 
the other in a St. Alban’s MS.’ In all of these the name of the 
second earl is given as William de Warenna without any word 
signifying his comital rank. 

Perhaps the most significant is the Durham one issued in 
the council of all England at Nottingham in 1109, William’s name 
following that of Robert count of Meulan; for in another charter 
issued on the same occasion the latter is followed by William 
described as ‘comes de Warenna.’® } 

It was of a transcript of one of these charters—the one 
issued at Winchester!’—that Round impugned the accuracy 
because it was witnessed by ‘Willielmo de Warenna’ instead of 


' Haigneré, op. cit., no. 96. In 1063 Arnulf had made an agreement with 
the abbot relating to other land, his brother Gerbod being mentioned, the 
latter being described as Gerbodo junior with a reference to a gift of his grand- 
father and confirmation of his father though without their christian names 
(2bid., no. 80). 

* Issued at Nottingham, dated 1109; D. and C. Durham, 1. 1. Reg. 17 
(a reference kindly supplied by Mr. Charles Johnson); but there is a doubt 
as to whether it is genuine; copy in Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1341-1417, p. 454; Farrer, 
Itinerary of Henry I, no. 231. Mr. Johnson has also noted a writ of Henry I 
on behalf of the bishop of Norwich dated at Windsor 29 Aug. [1101] in which 
William de Warenne is named without the comital style (Norwich Cath. 
Rega aii, 17227), . 

* Farrer, no. 592; date not earlier than 1128. ; 

* Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1300-26, p. 463, at Winchester (Farrer, no. 425, dating 
it 1120-22); and ibid., p. 71, at Westminster (Farrer, no. 673, dating it 1131- 
33). 

> Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1370-74, p. 363, at Arundel (Farrer, no. 82, dating it 
1102-07, vecte 1103-07). 

° E.Y.C., i, no. 399, at East Bridgeford (Farrer, no. 485, dating it 
1114-16 or 1120-30). 

1M. Paris, Chron. Mai., vi, 37, at St. Albans, dated 28 Dec. 1115 
(Farrer, no. 361). 

* An original at St. Mary’s, Hornby, Lancaster (which the Librarian has 
kindly allowed me to examine) must be excluded from this list; the witness 
is William de Vernun, not William de Warenna. The text pd.<in (£.27°G4 
- eo 671, requires amendment; the witness is correctly given in Farrer, no. 

9 Farrer, no. 230. 

1° Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1300-26, p. 463, as above. 


“APPENDIX :-B ie 47 


‘Willielmo Comite de Warenna.’”!. But the cumulative effect of the 
evidence given above. makes. such a deduction unjustified. The 
evidence of these charters, differing widely in date, shows that the 
name of an earl in the reign of Henry I could be written in the 
witness clause of royal charters without the distinctive word 
signifying his comital rank. The corollary suggests itself that, if 
the comital style is not given to a particular witness to charters 
of Henry I, it must not always be assumed that he was not entitled 
to it; but it is possible that the Warenne case is an exceptional 
one, in view of the peculiar comital style—‘comes de Warenna — 
by which in most instances the earliest earls of Surrey were 
described. 


APPENDIX C., 


CHARTERS OF WILLIAM SON OF KING STEPHEN, | 
FOURTH EARL’ DE WARENNE 


The following is a list of printed charters which were issued 
by William fourth earl de Warenne and later count of Boulogne 
and Mortain, dealing with lands in his possession which did not 
form part of the inheritance of his wife Isabel de Warenne. 


(a) Style : Comes W(tlletmus] filius regis Stephan. 
(i) Restoration to Richard de: Luci of specified lands of | 
| the honours of Boulogne and Pevensey; addressed to 
the men of the honour of count Eustace; at London 
in the presence of king Stephen; among the witnesses, 
Hugh bishop of Durham;? 1154, ante 25 Oct. (Cartae 
antiquae, II. 10; pd. by Round in ‘The Honour of 
Ongar,’ Essex Arch. Trans. N.S.,: vol. vii (1900), 

p. 144). | ; . 


- (b) Style : Comes Bolonte et Warenne. 

(ii) Confirmation to Sawtrey abbey, co. Huntingdon, of 
land in Gamlingay, co. Cambridge [honour of Bou- 
logne]; mention of Thurold de Borham described as 
his dapifer; at [Castle] Acre; post 25 Oct. 1154 (Harley 
Ch. 83A. 25; pd. in Warner and Ellis, Brit. Mus. 
Facsimiles, no. 37). 


(c) Style : Comes Bolone. 

(iii) Gift to Faramus [of Boulogne], his kinsman, and his 
heirs of the manor of Martock, Somerset [honour of 
Boulogne], to hold by the service of one knight; 
addressed to all his barons, ministers and faithful 
men of the honour which had belonged to count 


1 Geoffrey de Mandeville, p. 430, citing an abstract of another copy of 
the same charter. 

2 The earliest date is, therefore, the spring of 1154, when Hugh returned 
to England after his consecration. 


48 


(vill) 


(x1) 


HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Eustace, his grandfather, in England or outside; 
first witness, Isabel the countess, his wife; 1153-59 
(Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1257-1300, p. 34). 


(d) Style : Comes Bolonte et Moritontt. 
Confirmation to Furness abbey [honour of Lancaster] 
of his father’s charter of foundation; at Thetford; 
1154-59 (Farrer, Lancs. Pipe Rolls and Early Charters, 
p. 306, from Furness Coucher and Patent Roll of 1397). 


(e) Style : Comes Bolonte et Warennie et Moritoni. 
Confirmation of the manors of Tring, co. Hertford, 
and Bendish Hall, Essex [honour of Boulogne] to 
Faversham abbey; among the witnesses, William 
frater comitis;? post 25 Oct. 1154 (Mon. Ang., iv, 574, 
from Charter and Patent Rolls of 1315 and 1465). 


General confirmation to Eye priory [honour of Eye}; 
also described as filius regis Stephant; 1154-59 (Mon. 
Ang., iii, 406, from Eye Register). 

Confirmation of an exchange between Furness abbey 
and Michael le Fleming, and settlement of a dispute; 
addressed to his justices, sheriffs, ministers and faith- 
ful men of the honour of Lancaster; in his presence 
and that of his barons, at Lancaster (P.R.O. Anc. 
Deed L. 342; pd. in Farrer, Lancs. Pipe Rolls and 
Early Charters, p. 307, with suggested date 1157-58). 


Grant to Furness abbey of materials in his forest of 
Lancaster; addressed to all his justices, bailiffs and 
men of the honour of Lancaster; (Farrer, op. cit., 
p. 309, from Furness Coucher).® 


Confirmation to Ughtred son of Huck of land in 
Broughton in Amounderness; addressed to all his 
bailiffs and ministers of the honour of Lancaster; at 
Thetford; 1154-59 (P.R.O., County Placita, Chancery, 
Lanc. no. 8; pd. in Farrer, op. czt., p. 430). 


Confirmation to the abbey of Bury St. Edmunds of 
land of the fee of Roger of Poitou [honour of Lan- 
caster], given by his father king Stephen; 1154-59 
(D. C. Douglas, Feudal Documents from the Abbey 
of Bury St. Edmunds, no. 188). 


Grant of freedom to certain houses in Coutances, 
Normandy [comté of Mortain]; addressed to all the 


1 There are four varieties in the order of the names; Boulogne comes first 
in five out of the eight; Warenne once (no. viii); and Mortain twice (nos. x 
and xii). There was evidently no suggestion of indicating any precedency. 

2 Presumably an illegitimate son of king Stephen; see also no. xii. 

3 There is a MS. facsimile of the original in the Hatton Book of Seals, 
no. 211, giving the place of issue Singeltun (Singleton, Lancs.] and two 
additional witnesses, one being Faramus, making it evident that the charter 
was issued at much the same time as no. vii above (ex. inf. L. C. Loyd). 


APPENDIX C ; 49 


officers, clerk and lay, of the Céotentin; at Coutances; 
1155-58 (Cal. Docs. France, no. 961, from the Liber 
Albus of Coutances). 

(xii) Confirmation to the nuns of St. Mary of Mortain of 
the gift made by his father king Stephen; the last 
witness, William frater comitis; at Tinchebrai, dated 
1158 ([bid., no. 788, from a copy in the Archives 
Nationales). 


In addition to these there are the records, though not the full 
texts, of other charters which he issued. Styled comes Bolonie 
et Moretonie et Warennie, he made a gift of land for the building 
of Croxton abbey, co. Leicester, to which he gave the church of 
Croxton, and confirmed the gifts made by his men at the founda- 
tion when Henry II was king.t He confirmed land held of the 
honour of Boulogne to the abbey of St. Osyth, Essex;? and he was 
evidently the donor to one Waldeve of land in Walton-on-the- 
Hill, Wavertree and Newsham, Lancs., and the grand serjeanty 
of the wapentake [of West Derby]. As William comes de Warenna 
he granted privileges in Seaford [honour of Pevensey] to the. 
abbey of Grestain in Normandy.* 

In charters dealing with lands of the honour of Warenne, 
which can be assigned with certainty to the fourth earl, he is styled 
comes Warennie or de Warenna simply.® This style was used 
in a Yorkshire charter which was undoubtedly not issued before 
1154.6 It must not therefore be supposed that the style used in a 
particular charter is a sure proof that it was issued earlier than the 
time when he had become entitled to some additional dignity. Any 
charter in which the style comes Warennie alone occurs was 
certainly issued not earlier than 1148; but it must not be deduced 
that it was issued necessarily earlier than Aug. 1153, when he 
became count of Boulogne, or earlier than a subsequent date when 
he became count of Mortain.? And so, in his charter to Sawtrey 


1 Nichols, Leicestershire, vol. ii, part i, app. p. 77, and Mon. Ang., vi, 
877, both from the smaller Croxton Chartulary; and see Hist. MSS. Comm. 
Duke of Rutland, iv, 175, for the origin of the interest in Croxton which 
became a member of the honour of Lancaster. 

2 In aconfirmation charter of Henry II : ‘ex dono Baldewini constabu- 
larii et ex confirmatione comitis Stephani et Matillidis uxoris sue et Willelmi 
comitis filii et heredis eorum tenementum de Chich quod est de feodo 
Bolonie’ (Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1257-1300, p. 332). 

3 On 23 Sept. 1199 king John confirmed to Henry son of Gilbert son of 
Waldeve and his heirs land in these places and the grand serjeanty of the 
wapentake, as Waldeve (Walthevus) his grandfather held them in the times 
of William comes Bolon’ Warren’ et Moret’ and of Henry II (fot. Chart., 
p. 28a). Henry was known as Henry de Walton, to whom and to whose 
tenancy of the honour of Lancaster there are several references in Farrer, 
Lancs. Pipe Rolls and Early Chariers. 

4 Mon. Ang., vi, 1091, in a confirmation charter of king Richard I. 

5 Charters nos. 51, 52 in Chapter II. There seems to be no instance of 
his being described in charters as earl of Surrey. 

6 Charter no. 51. 

7 Asa witness to royal charters his usual description was comes Warennte 
or de Warenna. 


50 HONOUR’: OF WARENNE 


abbey (no. ii), issued after Stephen's death, the style comes Bolome 
et Warennie cannot be taken as proving that he had not then become 
count of Mortain. The date when he became possessed of that 
comté is uncertain; and, though it is unlikely on other grounds 
that this was before Henry II became king, this charter cannot be 
used to prove it, but only as a probable indication. 

An examination of the witnesses to the twelve charters 
listed above shows that Reginald de Warenne appears in no less 
than ten of them, including the charter issued at Coutances, always 
as the first or as the first lay witness. He was a younger brother 
of the third earl de Warenne, on whose behalf he administered 
the Warenne estates in England when the earl departed for the 
crusade in 1147.1 He acted, evidently at first on behalf of, and 
probably continuously as the principal adviser of the fourth earl, 
who married his niece Isabel, not only in the administration of the 
Warenne estates, but also in that of the widely scattered lands 
which the earl acquired later. Thus he addressed the justices, 
sheriffs and all the ministers of the honour of Lancaster, and all 
the barons thereof, in a charter confirming to the abbey of Shrews- 
bury, on the part of the earl and of himself (ex parte comitis et mea), 
Garston, Lancs., directing that all the free men and friends of 
the earl should protect the abbey’s interests therein.” | 

Another witness of special interest is Eustace the chancellor, 
who appears in four and possibly five of the charters, including the 
one issued at Tinchebrai in 1158. In 1148 or very shortly after- 
wards he had witnessed Reginald de Warenne’s charter to the 
burgesses of Lewes as Eustace clericus comitis Willelmi fila regis, 
v.e. clerk of William the fourth earl.4 It is extremely rare to find a 
chancellor of a tenant-in-chief in England in the twelfth century. 

That earl William had an official so styled is probably due, not so 
' much to his possession of several honours, which placed him in a 
position of distinctive importance, and must have entailed a highly 
organized machinery for their administration, but to his royal 
birth. For Eustace his chancellor there is a precedent in the 
chancellor of Henry, earl of Northumberland from 1139 to 1 £52, 
who was himself the son of the king of Scotland.§ 

Five of the charters were witnessed by Faramus,® in one of 
which (no. v) he is named Farfamus] de Bolonia. “He is described as 
the earl’s kinsman in the charter by which he was enfeoffed of 
Martock, Somerset (no. iii). He was lord of Tingry in the comté 
of Boulogne. His father William of Boulogne, who held lands in 
Northamptonshire and Surrey, and was dead in 1130, was a son 

' See the account of him in §2 above. 

* Farrer, Lancs. Pipe Rolls and Early Charters, p. 286. 

> Nos. iv, vii, viii and xii; and it is legitimate to suspect that master 
Eustace canonicus who witnessed no. xi is the same man, canonicus being a 
wrong extension of can{cellarius]. 

* Charter no. 50 in Chapter ILI. 
° See some notes on this question in E.Y.C., vol. iv, p. 106, where it is 
suggested that the chancellor of earl Conan was due to his tenure of the 


duchy of Britanny and not to that of the earldom of nace te 
& Nos.av}) Vid vie 


APPENDIX C 51 


of Geoffrey, an illegitimate son of count Eustace II of Boulogne, 
by his wife who was a daughter of Geoffrey de Mandeville I. 
Faramus held lands in Surrey of the honour of Mandeville; and in 
1153 appears to have held the constableship of Dover castle and 
the honour of Peverel of Dover! By a charter of Henry II he held 
the manor of Wendover and other lands in cos. Buckingham ‘and 
Bedford.2 Besides his tenure of Martock of the honour of Boulogne, 
he held lands of that honour in Essex, Hertfordshire and 
Cambridgeshire. His heir was Sibyl his daughter, who married 
Enguerrand de Fiennes (d. 1189), and was the mother of William 
de Fiennes.’ 

Apart from these three witnesses there is no other who 
appears with any regularity; and, except for Eustace the chan- 
cellor, there are only two who can be regarded as the holders of 
ministerial offices. It is probable that William ‘vicecomes, who 
witnessed the earl’s charter to the abbey of Bury St. Edmunds 
(no. x), his name in a list of more than twenty following Reginald 
de Warenne and Faramus, was his sheriff of Lewes.* And, secondly, 
Turold de Borham, a member of a family which had a tenancy 
of the honour of Boulogne at Boreham, Essex, who witnessed the 
first charter with no official description, is described as the earl’s 
dapifer in his charter giving land in Cambridgeshire to Sawtrey 
abbey (no. ii); and he is mentioned as the count’s steward in the 
charter by which Henry II gave land in Cambridgeshire to the 
hospital of Montmorillon in Poitou.® Both these references relate 
to Cambridgeshire; and it is likely that Turold filled the office of a 
local steward there. 


! See p. 16 above. 

2 Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1257-1300, p. 34. 

3 See the detailed account of Faramus by Round in Genealogist, xu, 
pp. 145-151, and also the references in his paper ‘The Counts of Boulogne’ in 
Studies in Peerage and Family History, pp. 160-1. For his tenure of Wendover 
see the note in Warner and Ellis, Brit. Mus. Facsimiles, no. 66; from which 
it appears he was still living in 1184. 

+ But evidently not the same William, who occurs as sheriff c. 1130-38 
(charter no. 20 in Chapter II), as an Adam occurs as sheriff c. 1148 (charter 
no. 50). . 

5 See p. 18 above. 


| CHAPTER II. 
CHARTERS OF THE LORDS OF THE HONOUR 


1. Gift by Rodulf de Warenne and Emma his wife to the abbey 
of Holy Trinity, Rouen, whither they came with their sons 
Rodulf and William in 1074 about sixteen years after their sale 
to the abbey of the churches and tithes of Motteville-l’Esneval, 
Flamanville-l’Esneval, Emanville and: Anglesqueville-sur-Saane 
in the pays de Caux, of all the tithe of Auzouville-l’Esneval, 
with the church, which they had purchased from William son of 
Roger son of Hugh the bishop [of Coutances]. At Rouen. 1074. 


Pd. in Cartulaire de l’ Abbaye de la Sainte-Trinité du Mont de Rouen 
(ed. A. Deville in Documents Inédits, 1841), no. xxxv, p. 440; 
also by T. Stapleton! in Avch. Journal, iii, 12, and by bo 
Loyd?in Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxi, 101, both from the same. 


Omnibus sancte ecclesia filiis notum sit, quod Rodulfus de 
Warenna ejusque conjux, vocabulo Emma, cum filiis suis, Rodulfo 
scilicet atque Willelmo, post annos fere xvj quam quattuor villarum 
Caletensis pagi, Malteville videlicet, Flamenville, Amundi Ville et 
Angliceville, ecclesias et earum decimas nobis vendiderant, con- 
venientes in hoc monasterio anno dominice incarnationis MLXXIIJ, 
omnem totius Osulfi Ville ejusdem Caletensis pagi, cum ecclesia, 
decimam, quam a Guillelmo, filio Rogerii, filii Hugonis episcopi XXX 
libris denariorum emerant, pro redemptione animarum suarum, in 
perpetuam hereditatem nobis dederunt, et donationem super altare 
Sancte Trinitatis posuerunt, coram testibus. 

Signum ipsius Rodulfi. Signum Emme, uxoris ejus. Signum 
Rodulfi, filii eorum. Signum Willelmi, fratris ejus. Signum Hugonis 
de Flamenvilla. Signum Rainaldi; signum Guillelmi, filiorum ejus. 
Signum Gisleberti, clerici. Signum Leudonis. Ex nostra parte testes : 
Ricardus, senescal; Bernardus, cocus; Ricardus de Appivilla; Guillel- 
mus, sartor; Rainaldus Anglicus; Walterius, cocus; Albericus de 
Blovilla; Osbernus Bruncosted. 


In the same chartulary there is the charter dated 1059 by which Rod- 
ulfus de Warenna, ‘vir illustris,’ with Emma his wife, sold to abbot Rainer 
and his monks the four churches named, each with ‘sex jugeres terre, quos 
acres dicimus,’ with the authority and a confirmation clause of William 
‘consul Normannie’; signum ejusdem Willelmi, comitis; signum Rodulfi 
de Warenna; signum Emme, uxoris ejus; signum Hugonis de Flamenvilla, 
and five witnesses (three being the same as in the above charter) on the 
abbey’s behalf.® 


Nee te le ee I 
1 Giving the year aS MLXIIIJ in error. 
2 First four witnesses only. 
3 Cartulaive, no. xxix, p. 436; Arch. Journal, iii, 12; YA.) xexi, 100 
(in part); abst. in Cal. Docs. France, no. 72. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 53 


- There are also (a) a notification by the monks referring to an earlier 
sale by Rodulf Warethnz of 100 acres of wood in Blovilla [Blosseville, nr. 
Rouen] and land there and in neighbouring places and to 100 acres of the 
same wood sold by Roger son of the bishop? ‘qui et particeps et coheres est 
ejusdem alodii’; which sales were authorized and confirmed by duke William 
and Malger, archbishop of Rouen; signum Willelmi, comitis; signum archi- 
presulis Malgerii; signum ejusdem Rodulfi de Guarethna; signum Beatricis, 
uxoris ejus; signum Rogerii, filii episcopi. . . signum Willelmi, filii Rogeri, 
heredis scilicet ipsius . . .2 signum Hugonis, fratris ejus. . 2 

(b) sale by Rodulf de Warenna with the consent of Emma his wife to 
abbot Rainer and the monks of all his portion of the wood in Blosseville and 
Scurra [Lescure, nr. Rouen], with the approval of duke William; signum 
ejusdem Willelmi, comitis; signum ipsius Rodulfi; signum Emmz, uxoris 
ejus; signum Hugonis de Flamenvilla; signum Leudonis; and four witnesses 
on the abbey’s behalf.* ag 

(c) gift and sale by Rodulf de Warethna with the concurrence of 
Emma his wife of certain tithes in Emanville, Flamanville and Motteville; 
signum ipsius Rodulfi; signum Emme, uxoris ejus; signum, Hugonis de 
Flamenvilla; signum Willelmi, filii Anscheri; and six witnesses on the 
abbey’s behalf.® : 

(d) sale by Rodulf de Warenna of the multure of all his men in Blosse- 
ville and neighbouring places, similar to the sale made by Roger son of 
Hugh the bishop. ® 
(e) record of the sale by Hugh de Flamenvilla to the abbey of tithe in 
Emanville which he held of his lord Rodulf de Warethna, with the latter’s 
consent, and interests in Motteville and Flamanville; with a clause stating 
that subsequently the said Rodulf, Emma his wife, and their sons Rodulf 
and William, together with the said Hugh, came to the abbey and confirmed 
the sale; signum Rodulfi de Warethna; signum Vidonis de Briothna;’ signum 
Willelmi, filii Walonis; signum Emme, uxoris Rodulfi de Warethna; signum 
Rodulfi, filii eorum; signum Willelmi, fratris ejus; signum ipsius Hugonis 
de Flamenvilla; signum Rotberti, filii ejus; signum Gisleberti, filii ejusdem; 
signum Rodulfi de Wesneval; and four witnesses on the abbey’s 
behalf. ® 

‘(f) confirmation by Rodulf de Warenna of the gift of tithe made by his 
tenant Osmund de Bodes, at the time of the invasion of England.’ 


ee aE aE aE 


1 Roger son of Hugh bishop of Coutances (Y.4./., xxxi, pp. 99, 102-3). 

2 A clause specifying a payment made to him for consenting to his 
father’s sale. ‘ 
3 Cartulaive, no. xxvii, p. 435; Arch. Journal, iu, BS hotice i YA, 
xxxi, 99; abst. in Cal. Docs. France, no. 71. The date is earlier than abp 
Malger’s deposition in May 1055. 

+ Cartulaive, no. xxviii, p. 436; Arch. Journal, iii, 9. 

5 Cartulaire, no. xxx, p. 437. 

6 Tbid., nos. xl, xli, pp. 442-3. 

7 Guy son of Rainald count of Burgundy by Adelis a daughter of 
Richard IL, duke of Normandy; he was given Brionne by duke William 
(Orderic, ed. Le Prévost, iii, 230); and is styled ‘Wido comes’ in another of 
these charters (see below). . 

8 Cartulaive, no. xxxi, p. 437; Arch. Journal, iii, 10; dated in Yat 
xxxi, 101 as c. 1060. : 

° Cartulaire, no. lvii, p. 451; Arch. Journal, iii, 13. 


54 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


(zg) confirmations by Rodulf de Warethna or Warenna, dated. 1060 and 
1062, of a gift and sale by two other tenants in Flamanville and Emanville.’ 
The chief interest of these charters is due to the mention of William, 
younger son of Rodulf de Warenne. He can be identified with William de 
Warenne I, subsequently the first earl of Surrey. Some of the witness clauses 
and the clause in the record of sale by Hugh de,Flamanville suggest that 
he was Rodulf’s son by his second wife Emma. But Beatrice, Rodulf’s 
first wife, was certainly living in 1053;3 and, as William fought at Hastings, 
he cannot have been the son of Emma. On this point Mr. Loyd was of 
opinion that too much weight should not be attached to a particular pronoun.‘ 
_ The charters show that Rodulf de Warenne and Roger son of Hugh 
bishop of Coutances, were coheirs in lands in the neighbourhood of Rouen. » 
Stapleton supposed that they were brothers; but Mr. Loyd shows that this 
view.-cannot be upheld, and that their relationship must have been more 
remote.5 Mr. Loyd has further shown that Stapleton’s identification of 
Roger son of the bishop with Roger de Mortemer is impossible.° 


2. Gift by William de Warenne and Gundreda his wife, with the 
assent of king William I, to the abbey of Cluny of the church of 
St. Pancras [at Lewes] with its appurtenances, two plough- 
lands in demesne in Swanborough [Sussex] with the villeins 
belonging thereto, and another with the vill of Falmer [Sussex] 
where there were three ploughs in demesne, together with its 
appurtenances as his wife was holding it; and confirmation by 
king William I, saving his lordship therein. [c. 1078-1082] 
PLATE I 


Original charter, Paris, Bibliothéque Nationale.’ Ecole des Chartes, 
lithograph facsimiles, no. 549. Pd. in Bernard and Bruel, 
Recueil des Chartes de l’ Abbaye ‘de Cluny (Docs. Inédits), 
iv, nos. 3558-9; and by Sir G. F. Duckett, Charters and Records 
of the Abbey of Cluni, i, pp. 44-5, and in Y.A./J., ix, 433, and 
xv, 432.8 Abst. in Davis, Regesta, no. 192. 


Notum sit omnibus fidelibus quod ego Willelmus de Warenna . 
et Gundreda uxor mea pro redemptione animarum nostrarum consilio 
et assensu domini nostri regis Anglorum Guillelmi . donamus Deo 
et sanctis apostolis eius Petro et Paulo . ad locum Cluniacum ubi preest 


1 Cartulaive, nos. xxxii, xxxiv, p. 439; and cf. no. xxxiii,, also con- 
oe by ‘Wido comes,’ the same man as Guy de Brionne mentioned 
above. 

2 Full details of proof were given by Mr. L. C. Loyd, who made an 
exhaustive examination of these charters and of related evidence in his paper 
‘The Origin of the Family of Warenne’ in Y.A.J,, xxxi, pp. 97-113; see 
especially on this point pp. 106-10. 

3 See p. 1 above. 

Pe Af AE ee 

> Ibid., pp. 102-3. i 

® Complete Peerage, new ed., ix,.app. A, p. 7. 

_..1 This original is one of the ‘chartes originales de l’abbaye de Cluni, du 
xi¢ siécle’ (Inventaive des Manuscrits de la Bibliothéque Nationale— Fonds 
de Cluni—par Léopold Delisle, Paris, 1884; §157, no. 121, p. 259). . . 

8 There is an incorrect copy in Avrchaeologiad, xxxii, 124n in W. H, 
Blaauw’s article on the parentage of Gundreda. 


™, 7 
Pr 
i? Le 
+ PU EL ie, Ve 
hk Bid, cae er 4 
i z 
Te? ee 
7 pinrae 


4) 


Leth ie Patee : , wae 
tia hae Ran! 


. 


allt he a Dan 


ye 


PLATE 1 


oe al | a 4 ri Ve 

ay, bat Es Ol ga he een (G7 f\ (. : NY Ty yy. We 

Now AL aii. OLB: tLDED Ac 1 vi) : oh iy anes ee 8 
Giger x Guadpeds ~ ENO as ayn pe: 7 \smayy ton of “4m CON ftsc ot Ment dri anf = 
- : Lost balled donant der ; Me! ip eee ak & ‘paulo- ves eee ube pred Hence 4 


gaz | 


| 1 Ing = les meadem nee. ‘ wt acy oS is me \d cam pores anit dase exp as es 
Hes (6 minanberga- cum il! Leif Ad cam panera Slane nit ‘alle falemel. : 
z peated aii 7 rs, cum be omtb: Zi. cam ponenc. flee e cas fepyacte a ime: ; 
ce bit NRL thy Xfi 160 alleLae Ai GRA REX  Anycloss INSPrnarionjE nuvi ike 
eee <4 Pillans ace me & fal tLuce paring mec pag eam ol obnince plants Wt elon 
ema w ‘ewspe if Gundpest Lane tnlepipea donacioné ie 1" face Sis Aptis Di-p- op. Adkcaim © 


eee pac Jl apf igual ise no. aipegals Lacdoprace cot To boy uc mppecu ie oi’ memen{fa 


ante ¢ dna cone TA et cOnpede ur fiber candem” domrnacioné Incl « 1 7’ habe wtceey P eberiicfoas fincty oes 2 


‘ “Segut Witaagt faapSteed tay 
e: fom Tes. NUITIL » vat bec mijta ss habe S sd co mals. S a yf 


i 
‘4 > 


F- 
[ 


f 


EM ra nw gurl ie 


4g 
aoa 
Abelf dé ‘steps aS ‘ : ed oth via a 
r x ' or 


de bas rentals ‘i 
va pS: A, roabdioa CANCE Lass i ee s oh 


| | bya a ae de Saverina 


Size 23°5 by 27 cm. 


No. 2 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 55 


domnus Hugo abbas in eadem Anglorum terra ecclesiam sancti Pan- 
cracii cum his que ad eam pertinent . et terram duarum carrucarum in 
proprio in Suamberga . cum uillanis ad eam pertinentibus . et unius 
in terra que nuncupatur . et uillam Falemelam . ubi sunt tres carruce 
proprie . cum his omnibus que ad eam pertinent . sicut tenebat eam 
supradicta uxor mea. ay 

- In nomine Domini nostri Ihesu Christi ego Guillelmus Dei 
gratia rex Anglorum inspiratione diuina compunctus pro incolomitate 
regni mei et salute anime mee . rogantibus etiam et obnixe postu- 
lantibus Willelmo de Warenna et uxore eius Gundreda hanc inscriptam 
donationem quam faciunt sanctis apostolis Dei . P[etro] et P{aulo] ad 
locum Cluniacum sigillo nostro signatam confirmo . et regali auctoritate 
corroboro . ut in perpetuum firma et inconcussa permaneat. Hanc 
donationem ita concedo ut habeam eandem dominationem in ea . quam 
habeo in ceteris elemosinis quas mei proceres faciunt meo nutu . et hoc 
in ista elemosina habeam . quod habeo in alliis. 

of] signum Willelmi regis Anglorum > signum M[athildis] 
regine Anglorum > s[ignum] Willelmi comitis filii regis . > signum 
Willelmi de Warenna . > s{ignum] Gundrede uxoris W[illelmi] de 
Warenna . > s[ignum] Rotberti de Bellomonte! . >] sig{[num] Henrici 
de Bellomonte . > s[ignum] Rotberti Gifardi . >] s[ignum] Rogeri de 
Mortuomari . > s[ignum] Goisfridi de Caluomonte . >] s[ignum] 
Radulfi dapiferi . + s[ignum] Mauricii cancellarii. 

This is the original foundation charter of Lewes priory. It was sent 
to Cluny where it was preserved. No copy of it was entered in the fifteenth- 
century chartulary of the priory. A note on the supposed first charter of 
William de Warenne L| is given in Appendix D below. | 

The latest date for the present charter is 1083, when queen Maud died; 

but this can be put back to the previous year as it was evidently issued 

before no. 3 below; and it was probably earlier than Dec. 1081, as Robert 
de Beaumont had then become count of Meulan.? The earliest date is c. 1078, 
‘when Maurice became chancellor.2 At the Domesday survey it was recorded 
that St. Pancras [Lewes priory] held Falemere of William de Warenne.* 


3. Notification by king William I to Lanfranc, archbishop of 
} Canterbury, and Odo, bishop of Bayeux, that he had confirmed 
to the abbey of Cluny the land of Falmer [Sussex], given by 
William de Warenne and his wife. — [c. 1078-1082] 


Bernard and Bruel, Recueil des Chartes de l’ Abbaye de Cluny (Docs. 
Inédits), iv, no. 3560, from the Cluny Chartulary. Abst. in 
Davis, Regesta, no. 179. 


Wuillelmus rex Anglorum Lanfranco archiepiscopo et Ottoni 
Bajocensi salutem. Sciatis quia concedo ut sanctus Petrus de Cluniaco 


1 The names of this witness and of the succeeding ones are on the left, 
the names of the first witnesses being on the rights It may be that the 
cross before the name of the last witness was made by Maurice himself. 

2 Complete Peerage, new ed., vii, 524. 

3 Handbook of British Chronology, R. Hist. Soc., p. 66. In the narrative 
account of the earls in the Lewes Chartulary (f. 105V; S.R.S., ii, 15) the year 
1088 is given as the eleventh year of the foundation. 

SUAS BF: ate hed 7 £53 1¢ 


56 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


habeat illam terram quam Willelmus de Warenna suaque femina ei 
tribuunt, scilicet Falemelam, et super hoc tantum unde habeant vj 
carrucas in dominium cum hominibus qui ad vj carrucatas terre per- 
tinent, tali pacto ut abbas predicti loci Willelmo sueque femine faciat 
hoc. quod eis propter hoc pepigit, et ego inde habeam quod ad me 
pertinet, scilicet meum wergeldum, nisi indulsero. | 


The date is not later than 1082, when Odo of Bayeux was arrested. It 
can be supposed that the word ‘wergeldum’ has the equivalent meaning of 
danegeld. The third earl acquitted the priory ‘erga regem de danegeld et 
de omnibus aliis seruitiis que ad regem pertinent’ (see no. 32). 


4, Confirmation by king William I to Lewes priory of the manor 
of [West] Walton, Norfolk, with the appurtenances held of him 
by William de Warenne; for the souls of king Edward, count 
Robert the king’s father, the king himself and his wife queen 
Maud, his sons and successors, and William de Warenne and 
Gundreda his wife. [1081-83] 


Original charter, Cotton MS. Vespasian F. ui, no. l. Pd. in Mon. 
Ang., v, 13; Federa (Rec. Comm.), i, 3; and by Stapleton in 
Arch. Journal, iii, 2; abst. in Davis, Regesta, no. 232. Copy 
by Richard St. George in Bodleian Library, MS. Rawlinson 
B. -103, £..251; pd. therefrom by Sir G. Duckett in Y.A.f;, 
vol. ix (1886), p. 436, and in Sussex Arch. Collections, vol. Xxxv 
(T8875 palze. = 


Notum sit presentibus et futuris quod ego Willelmus gl[?racia 
Dei] rex Anglorum concedo monasterio sancti Pancratii quod situm est 
apud Leuuas . pro anima domini et antecessoris mei regis Euuardi . et 
pro.anima patris mei comitis Rotberti . et pro mea ipsius anima et uxoris 
mee Matildis regine . et filiorum atque successorum meorum . et pro 
anima Guillelmi de Uuarenna et uxoris sue Gu[ndreJde.. .2.. .° 
quandam mansionem in Norfolc nomine Waltona cum omnibus que 
ad eandem mansionem pertinent . que Willelmus ad illam mansionem 
tenet de me. Concedo etiam ut monachi in eodem monasterio conuer- 
santes et conuersaturi ea libertate possideant . qua ecclesie quas barones 
mei me concedente construunt possident elemosinas quas ego eis 


1 The original is in poor condition, and gall has been plentifully applied; 
but almost all the text is legible. There are several variants in the printed 
texts. Those in Mon. Ang. and Federa suggest that the words filie mee 
formed part of the original script; but there is no authority for this, and 
these texts have been contributory causes of the misunderstandings on the 
subject of Gundreda’s parentage. Stapleton, who pointed out that they 
were additions in a later hand, made the curious slip of printing nostram 
for in Norfolc. St. George gave the words fillie mee with an interlineation 
mark which is ignored by Sir G. Duckett in his printed texts. 

2 Above a space now obliterated are the words filie mee in a much 
later hand. 

3 Practically now illegible. Stapleton suggested pro me et heredibus mets; 
M.A. and F. printed et hevedibus suis after filie mee. Blaauw, for his paper 
on Gundreda, criticizing Stapleton (Archaeologia, xxxii, 117), made a careful 
examination of the original. He was of the opinion that enough remains 
of the last words to suggest heredum suorum; though this appears improbable. 
And, so intent was he to prove that Gundreda was the Conqueror’s daughter, 
he assumed that the blank space above. which filie mee is written was 
originally filled with those words; but this is in the nature of special pleading. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 57 


concessi. Et ita quod ego in ista elemosina habeam . quicquid in illis 
habeo. Et ut donatio hec firma et inconcussa perpetuo maneat . signo 
sancte crucis manu propria confirmaui . et manibus fidelium meorum 
testificandum liberaui. 

S. Willelmi regis! S. Willelmi filii regis S. Hainrici filii regis 
S. Willelmi de Warenna S. Thome archiepiscopi® S. Osmundi episcopi 
S. Wauchelini episcopi S. Remigii episcopi S. Willelmi episcopi 
Dunelmensis S. Hainrici S. Richardi de Ton. . 2 S. Milonis Crispini 
S. Walteri Giffardi S. Eduuardi uicecomitis. 

Endorsed (in early hands): Willelmus .. . Waltona; Willelmi 
regis de Waltona. 


As William, bishop of Durham, is a witness the earliest date is 1081; 
and as presumably queen Maud was alive the latest date is 1083. At the 
Domesday survey it was recorded that in [West] Walton, surveyed among 
the lands of William de Warenne, an interest was held by St. Peter,* the 
gift having been made to St. Peter of Cluny on behalf of Lewes priory. 

The gift of Walton by the first earl for the soul of Gundreda his wife, 
with the concession of his son the second earl, is included among the entries 
in an early twelfth-century register of the priory. That gift, evidently later 
than Gundreda’s death in 1085, can not, however, have been the initial one. 

Although the supposed first charter of William de Warenne I to Lewes 
priory cannot be accepted as genuine (see Appendix D), there is no reason 
to doubt the terms of his gift there recorded of Walton with all the free- 
men whom Gundreda held there of him with that manor, and all he had 
there between the two rivers of Lynn and Wellstream, retaining for him 
and his heirs the right of entertainment twice yearly there, once when 
going to Yorkshire and again when returning.* In the fabricated charter of 
the second earl (no. 6 below) there is a clause confirming Walton and neigh- 
bouring interests, whatever his mother held there of his father between 
the two rivers, retaining for him and his heirs only two entertainments 
yearly for all the services of the men of the fen, in everything as his father 
ordained and confirmed by his charter.’ 


5. Confirmation by king William II to Lewes priory of the manor 
of Heacham [Norfolk] which William de Warenne [the first] 
had given, including the land of Pain who was then reeve there ; 


1 There are sixteen crosses with witnesses’ names; fourteen of the 
names, given here, can be read. The name below the king’s is given by 
Stapleton as Robberti [ filii regis], and apparently by St. George as Rutbarti 
comitis de Medlent. The name preceding Milo Crispin is suggested by Staple- 
ton as Alani comitis Britannie, and given by St. George as Rogert Bigottt; 
the latter is not unlikely. ; 

2 There is no doubt of this name, which is so given by Stapleton and 
Davis. M. A. and F. printed. . . ingard nep. It was omitted by St. George. 

3 Davis, following M.A. and F., printed Michael de Tona; but that 
Christian name is certainly wrong. Stapleton gave Richardi de Tonlebrige}, 
and St. George Ricardi de Ton. 

4 D.B., ii, 160; the entry ends with ‘hoc est de feudo Fedrici,’ as to whom 
see Appendix A in Chapter I above. 

5 Mon. Ang., v, 9n; for this register see Appendix D below and the 
note to charter no. 8. 

6 Mon. Ang., v, 12; S.R.S., 1, 4. 

be, earn) BS DY 


58 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


to possess it as William had held it in demesne at his death; 
also of all the land held by William [de Warenne] in demesne in 
the isle where the priory was built, which he had given in 
augmentation of his alms, and of the hide of land possessed by 
Eustace in Balmer [par. Falmer, Sussex] and given by the 


latter to the priory. [1088-91 ; probably the 
summer of 1088] 


Confirmation Roll, 2 Hen. VIII, pt. 4, no. 9 (m. 5). Pd. in Davis, 
egesta, app. no. 51; abst. in zbid., no. 325; and previously in 
29th Report of Deputy Keeper, app. p. 41. Cotton Charter, 
5p eles wing 


Notum sit presentibus et futuris quod ego Willelmus Dei gratia 
rex Anglorum concedo monasterio sancti Pancratii quod situm est apud 
Leuuas et monachis Cluniacensibus ibidem Deo sanctoque Pancratio 
famulantibus, pro salute anime mee et antecessorum meorum, ele- 
mosinam quam Willelmus de Warenna predicte congregationi pro 
salute anime sue dedit, mansionem videlicet que Erceham? nominatur 
quantum ipse in dominio suo inde tenebat. In hoc autem dominio 
numeratur terra Pagani qui tunc temporis prepositus ibi erat. Hanc 
igitur mansionem et quicquid quomodo ad illam pertinet eisdem 
monachis concedo, et ut insolubiliter libere illud possideant regali 
auctoritate impero, sicut Willelmus illud in dominio suo habebat die 
qua vivus et mortuus fuit. Eadem auctoritate eis concedo totam terram 
quam Willelmus in dominio habebat in insula in qua monasterium 
edificatum® est quam ipse ad augmentum elemosine sue eis dedit. 
Hidam eciam terre quam Eustachius in Borgemera possedit et ipse 
eodem modo eis dedit, et ego eodem modo eis concedo. Et ut donatio 
hec firma et inconcussa perpetuo maneat signo sancte crucis manu 
propria confirmavi et manibus fidelium meorum testificandam tradidi. 
Signum + Willelmi regis. S. + Gunnulfi episcopi. S. + Willelmi 
Teforensis episcopi. S. + Rogerii* comitis. S. -+ Roberti comitis. 
S. [+] Walteri Giphardi. S. + Henrici de Ferrariis. S. + Henrici de 
Bellomonte. S. + comitis Alani. S. + comitis Hugonis de Cestra.° 
S. + Rotgerii de Busliaco. S. + Bernardi de Nouo mercato. S. + 
Walterii de Aincurte. S. + Ricoardi. S. + Radulfi de Caisneto. S. 
+ Ricardi. S. + Hugonis filii Golde. S. + Godefridi de Petraponte. 
S. + Hugonis de Wanciaco. 


' This, certainly not later than the early years of the 12thcent., may be 
a contemporary copy or even the actual original. It is greatly damaged by 
fire; but much is legible, and it can be used to amend the text on the Conf. 
Roll in two important points. By a curious slip Davis gives this reference as 
‘B.M. Cotton Cleopatra xvi, 32’; and he assigns the gift to William de Warenne 
the second. 

* Clear in Cotton Ch., and is so given by Davis, presumably from that 
source. The spelling on Conf. Roll is Evreeham, and is so given in Rep. D.K. 

> Clear in Cotton Ch. On Conf. Roll the word is redificatum; pd. by 
Davis as reedificatum; and the word ‘rebuilt’ is used in both abstracts. But 
the charter gives no evidence whatever that the priory had been rebuilt. 

* Clear in Cotton Ch.; Rogeri, Conf. Roll. 

> eestra, Conf. Roll; the word is lost in Cotton Ch, 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 59 


As this charter was issued after the death of William de Warenne the 
first the date is not earlier than the spring of 1088;1 and the latest possible 
date is 1091, as it was witnessed by William, bishop of Thetford. It can be 
compared with two charters which the king issued in favour of the church of 
Rochester to compensate for the damage done during the siege,? and which 
were evidently executed soon after the surrender of the castle. One or other 
of them was witnessed by five of those who witnessed the present one; and 
as the present one was witnessed by Henry de Beaumont, who witnessed 
one of the others as Henry earl of Warwick, it is presumably earlier in date. 
As Robert count of Mortain was a witness, the date is later than the fall of 
Pevensey in the spring, when on his surrender he was restored to the king’s 
favour. It can therefore be deduced that the date falls between that event 
and shortly after the fall of Rochester which is stated to have taken place 
at the beginning of the summer.* If, as seems highly probable, William de 
Warenne died on 24 June 1088° the date can be assigned to within a short 
time afterwards. It will be noticed that the list of witnesses concludes with 
the names of several Domesday tenants of William de Warenne, including 
Ralph de Chesney, Hugh son of Golda, Godfrey de Pierrepont and Hugh de 
Wancy;® and it is not unlikely that Lewes itself was the place of issue. 

At the Domesday survey it was recorded that Eustace held a hide in 
Falmer hundred (presumably in Balmer) of William de Warenne.’ The gift 
of Heacham, confirmed by the king, is an important factor in considering 
the authenticity of the supposed first charter of William de Warenne (see 
Appendix D below). 


APPENDIX D 


NOTE ON THE SUPPOSED FIRST CHARTER OF WILLIAM DE 
WARENNE 1.8 


The earliest document in the Lewes Chartulary is described 
in its heading as the first charter of William de Warenne, the 
first founder of the priory.? Even if the document can be supposed 
to be genuine it was certainly not the first charter of the founder, 
for the mention of king William IT shows that it was later than the 
charter printed at no. 2 above. But a detailed examination of its 
contents confirms the suspicions which are invited by its general 
character and trend. After an invocation of the Trinity it proceeds 
to a discursive account of how William and his wife went to Cluny 


1 See p. 4 above. 

2 Davis, Regesta, nos. 301, 302. 

3 Orderic, iv, 17. 

4 Ibid., iii, 279. 

5 See p. 4 above, where the importance of this charter in confirming 
the year of death is noted. 

6 For them see H.K.F., iii, pp. 314, 334, 322, 381. 

Pad. Bis i;,28D. 

8 This is largely based on some notes made by the late Mr. L. C. 
Loyd in 1934 and 1940 and many discussions which I had with him. For 
some contrary views see Mr. Salzman’s Introduction to S.R.S., ii, pp. xix, xx. 

9 Lewes Chartulary, f.9V. Pd. in Mon. Ang., v, 12; translation in S.R.S., 
i, pp. 1-7. There is no number to the heading in the Chartulary, which in the 
case of others so numbered corresponds with the endorsements on original 
charters still extant. 


60 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


and were so much impressed by what they saw there that they 
decided to found a Cluniac house in England. This is described 
in a manner which is strongly reminiscent of a foundation narra- 
tive rather than a foundation charter. The document then pro- 
ceeds to what may be described as the operative part, which is 
frequently framed in a narrative form and is interspersed with 
exhortations and imprecations addressed to posterity. It ends with 
a statement that the grantor had caused king William [II].in his 
council at Winchester to confirm the charter and witness it by the 
sign of the cross with his own hand and by the signs of the bishops, 
earls and barons then with him. There are in fact no subscriptions. 
Speaking generally it is difficult to conceive anything more 
dissimilar in form and tone to the genuine eleventh- ee 
charters which have come down to us. 

But general considerations are not conclusive; and it is 
desirable to examine objective tests. The first discloses an 
anachronism which cannot be explained away, and which is fatal 
to the authenticity of the charter. The grantor states that after 
the death of Gundreda his wife he gave to the monks of Lewes 
the manor of Heacham in Norfolk with the land of Pain the reeve, 
and that king William II had confirmed the gift as his father 
(the Conqueror) had done. It is true that king William. II did 
confirm the manor of Heacham, including the land of Pain the 
reeve. The text of his confirmation has survived, and it is printed 
at no. 5 above. But it is there stated that Heacham was to be 
possessed by the monks as William de Warenne held it on the day 
when he was alive and dead. We are therefore faced with the 
dilemma that in the supposed charter now under consideration 
William de Warenne stated that William II confirmed the gift 
of Heacham, whereas in the confirmation issued by William II 
it is stated that William de Warenne was dead} 

The second test concerns the arrangements proposed for the 
appointment of the prior of Lewes. We know that a dispute 
between the abbot of Cluny and Hamelin earl de Warenne as to 
the method of appointment was settled temporarily in 1181;? 
and that further disputes were in progress in 1200. Both parties 
then appealed to the pope; and in the following year a com- 
_ promise was effected, and embodied in an agreement dated 10. June 
1201.3 Under the terms of this agreement two monks of Lewes, 

! In this connexion there is first-rate evidence that the gift of Heacham 
was actually made by the second earl and not by the first. On a stray 
folio of a 12th century register of the priory in P.R.O. (Exch. K.R. Eccl., 
bundle 2, no. 40—cf. p. 38% above) there is the following passage: “Her- 
cheham dedit nobis Willelmus secundus comes ad mortem patris sui qui 
rogavit eum per barones suos ut daret’ [end of folio]. It seems clear that the 
passage continues with the words ‘nobis unum de melioribus maneriis suis 
de North[folc],’ which are found at the beginning of a folio of the same MS. 
in B.M. Cotton MS. Vesp. E. ii, f. 106; pd. in Mon. Ang. v, 9n; the whole 
passage occurring continuously in the later list of benefactors in ibid., p. 14. 
It is difficult to suppose that the Conqueror had confirmed Heacham to 
the priory as is stated in the Chartulary document. 


2 Charter no. 78 below. 
3 Charter no. 79. 


APPENDIX D 61 


together with the earl’s envoys, were to be sent to Cluny within a 
fortnight of a vacancy at Lewes; the abbot of Cluny was then to 
nominate two monks of the order of Cluny most fitted, in his 
opinion, to govern the priory, two being excepted, namely the 
chief prior of Cluny and the prior of La Charité; and the earl’s 
envoys would then choose one of the two nominees of the abbot, 
who should then be instituted as prior of Lewes. Now in the 
document at present under consideration William de Warenne 
states that the abbot of Cluny had promised in writing that on a 
vacancy at Lewes he would send as prior one of his most suitable 
monks, the chief prior of Cluny and the prior of La Charité being 
excepted. The fact that the exceptions are precisely the same in 
the two records suggests that the supposed charter of William de 
Warenne I is here an echo of the agreement of 1201. It will be 
noticed that in the temporary settlement of 1181 no mention of 
these exceptions is made. Nor either there nor in the proceedings 
leading up to the agreement of 1201 is there anything from which 
it can be deduced that detailed arrangements had been made in 
the opening years of the priory’s history for future appointments. 

Lastly, it is well known that in the supposed charter there 
is the statement that queen Maud was the mother of Gundreda, 
the grantor’s wife. The result of the elaborate researches made 
into Gundreda’s parentage makes it reasonably certain that such 
a statement had no foundation in fact.” 

Besides the copy of the document which is entered in the 
Lewes Chartulary (compiled in 1444), there is another in the 
Bibliothéque Nationale, which is a notarial copy made at Lewes 
in 1417 and sent to Cluny. The notary in his certificate stated 
that the document from which he made his copy had the earl’s 
seal of white wax appended to it, and, in his opinion, was free from 
all suspicion. The notarial copy corresponds precisely with the 
copy in the Lewes Chartulary.2 The notary also referred to a 
charter of the second earl, also sealed, which he described as 
‘prolixam et diffusam valde,’ and only made a transcript of the 
beginning and end of it. This is the document printed in part 
at no. 6 below; and it is clear that, notwithstanding the notary’s 
opinion, it cannot be accepted as a genuine charter. Now in the 
general confirmation issued by John earl de Warenne, ¢. 1306,* he 
inspected and set out at length this supposed charter of the second 
earl, but merely referred in general terms to the gifts, grants and 
confirmations of the first earl and countess Gundreda, without 
making any allusion to the first earl’s charter. In 1331 he made a 
further general confirmation;® and again the same charter of the 


1 See notes to no. 79. In those proceedings the earl’s case was that 
he claimed that no appointment should be made without his approval as 
patron, and the abbot’s that he had the unrestricted right of appointment 
to Lewes as to other members of the Cluniac congregation. 

2 See Appendix A above. 

3 Duckett, Charters and Records of the Abbey of Cluni, i, pp. 46 et seq., 
where the notarial certificate and the document are printed in full. 

4 Tbid., pp. 54-5. : 

5 Lewes Chartulary, f. 28 (S.R.S., 1, 54). 6 Thid., £. 36 (S.R.S:, 1, 69). 


62 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


second earl is set out at length, and also a charter of the third 
earl; and again there is no allusion to a charter of the first. Finally, 
in 1397, Thomas, duke of Norfolk, issued a confirmation, setting 
out the same two charters without any allusion to the existence 
of a charter of the first earl. An argument from silence must not be 
put forward as conclusive;? but it is not unlikely that the document 
did not then exist, for it is strange that the monks should not 
have produced it, particularly as it contains exemptions and 
privileges not found in the documents which they did produce. 
It is possible, therefore, that it was drawn up and sealed fictitiously 
at some date between 1397 and 1417. In any event, in view of the 
considerations given above, the date of composition was almost 
certainly later than 1201. | 


CHARTERS OF THE SECOND EARL 


The first series of these charters (nos. 7 to 11), following 
no. 6 which cannot be accepted as genuine, includes general 
confirmations to Lewes priory, and gifts relating to specified 
places within the honour of Conisborough and the manor of 
Wakefield. These are followed by nine charters to Lewes priory, 
relating to lands in Sussex and other counties outside Yorkshire, 
of which all except one are originals (nos. 12 to 20); and, in con- 
clusion, by another nine in favour of other religious houses in 
England and Normandy (nos. 21 to 29). 

Those charters which were issued after the earl’s marriage 
to Isabel or Elizabeth de Vermandois can be dated as later than 
5 June 1118, when Robert count of Meulan, her first husband, died. 
The earliest date for any charters in which their sons William 
and Ralph occur has been taken as c..1130. The detailed con- 
firmation charter of Ralph, archbishop of Canterbury, to Lewes 
priory, an original dated 1121 (no. 10), is important for fixing that 
as the latest date for many of the gifts. 


6. General charter of William de Warenne [second] earl of Surrey 
to Lewes priory, confirming the gifts and confirmations of his 
father, and recording his own. [fabricated]. 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 12Y (without wit- 
nesses); f. 28 (with witnesses); f. 36 (with witnesses);* f. 39V 
(with witnesses).> Pd. in Watson, Memoirs, i, 92;° translation 
in Lewes Chartulary, S.R.S., i, 10; and abst. in Farrer, Honors 
and Knights’ Fees, iii, 308. 


1 Lewes Chartulary, f. 39V (S.7?.S., i, 72). 

2 On this point Mr. Chester Waters wrote (Gundvada de Warenne, 
p. 15) that it was a suspicious circumstance ‘“‘that a charter, which was on the 
face of it the most important, title deed which the monks possessed, was 
altogether ignored by Henry I, when he confirmed the privileges and 
liberties of the Priory soon after his coronation, and that it is neither recited 
nor referred to in any genuine charter of subsequent date.” 

3 In the confirmation of John de Warenne, earl of Surrey, c. 1306. 

* In the confirmation of the same in 1331. 

5 In the confirmation of Thomas, duke of Norfolk, in 1397. 

6 From the text in the last confirmation. The transcription as printed 
by Watson is very far from being accurate. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 63 


Sciant! omnes qui sunt et qui futuri sunt quod ego Willelmus 
de Warenna comes Surregie cum primum post mortem patris mei 
comitis Willelmi venissem in Angliam et intrassem in capitulum 
monasterii sancti Pancratii quod fundaverunt pater meus et mater mea 
Gundrada sub castro Lewiarum, requisitus a domino Lanzone priore 

. libens laudavi, concessi, donavi et confirmavi . . . omnes don- 
aciones et concessiones et confirmaciones quas eis fecerat et omnia 
que eis donaverat pater meus vivente et volente matre mea et con- 
cencientibus me et Rainaldo fratre meo in terris et in ecclesiis et 


decimis . . . [specified in detail] . . . Et quia ego volui. . . accrescere 
elemosinam patris mei et meam. . . apposui ego et dedi. . . [specified 
in detail}. . . In Eboraci sira vero dedi eis ecclesiam de Kuningeburg 


cum aliis ecclesiis et decimis et terris et omnibus suis appendiciis et 
ecclesiam de Wakefeld cum pertinenciis suis, ecclesiam de Halifax 
cum omnibus pertinenciis suis, ecclesiam de Dewesbiri cum per- 
tinenciis suis, [ecclesiam] de Birtune cum pertinenciis suis, ecclesiam de 
Maiori Sandale cum pertinenciis suis, ecclesias de Hedfued et de Thorne 
cum pertinenciis suis, ecclesiam de Sillac? cum pertinenciis suis, 
ecclesiam de Hertille cum pertinenciis suis, ecclesiam de Duninton’? 
cum pertinenciis suis, ecclesiam de Minori Sandale cum pertinenciis 
suis. Omnes autem supradictas ecclesias cum pertinenciis suis sicut 
fuerunt de libera donacione patris mei vel mea ita eas liberas dedi ad 
habendum monachis in perpetuum, ita quod quicquid de terris eveniat 
in quibus sunt fundate ipse ecclesie vel ad cujuscumque dominium quo- 
cumque modo deveniant semper ecclesie libere monachis remaneant 
nec aliquid juris possit in eis aliquis alius calumpniari, sic tamen quod 
presbiteri qui servient in eis habeant inde omnia necessaria sua raciona- 
biliter ad serviendum Deo et ecclesiis ipsis et parochianis suis, et de 
remanente habeant monachi quicquid boni habere potuerint fideliter 
ad sustentacionem suam et ad benefaciendum indigentibus. Postea 
vero non post multum tempus cum perfecta fuisset ecclesia sancti 
Pancratii invitatus sum a priore Lanzone et a cunctis fratribus ejusdem 
ecclesie et rogatus ab eis ut eam facerem dedicare quod libenter et letus 
concessi et convocavi ipsius diocesis episcopum dominum Rad[ulfum] 
et Walkelinum Wintonien[sem] et Gundulfum Rouecestr[ensem] 
episcopos ad eam dedicandam. . . [record of a gift of tithes then made 
and of gifts by his tenants, and of further gifts including licence to fish and 
take venison; also a mention of countess Isabel his wife] . . Hujus autem 
carte mee testes sunt qui presentes viderunt et audierunt omnia episcopi 
et barones mei qui testimonia sua per signum sancte crucis subscrip- 
serunt, signum + Willelmi comitis, signum Radulphi +- episcopi, sig- 
num Walkelini + episcopi, signum Gundulfi + episcopi, signum 
Rainald[i] fratris + comitis, signum Rad[ulfi] de + Kaineto, signum 
Walteri de -+- Grauntcourt, signum Rad[ulfi] filii Rad[ulfi], signum 
Rogeri de -+ Clara, signum Warini + vicecomitis, signum Gosleni + 


1 The text on f. 12Y is followed here, with the witnesses from the first 
confirmation. 

2 In error for Fislac {Fishlake]. 

3 Apparently written Diminton’. 

* The passage from ecclesiam de Halifax to this point is omitted in the 
confirmations. 


64 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


constabular[ii], signum Hugonis + filii Hugonis, signum + Nigelli, 
signum + Josfridi capellani, signum Ricoardi + presbiteri. 


In the heading in the Chartulary (f. 12) this document is described as 
the charter of William the second founder of the priory; and it is described 
as a charter of the second earl in the three confirmations of c. 1306, 1331 
and 1397. The list of witnesses, given in the confirmations, shows that, if 
it were an authentic charter, it was issued in the period 1091-97; for Ralph, 
bishop of Chichester, the second witness was consecrated in 1091, and 
Walkelin, bishop of Winchester, the third witness died on 3 Jan. 1097-8. 

The authenticity of the charter is a question of prime importance for 
Yorkshire history; for, in view of the mention of the gift of the churches of 
Wakefield, Halifax, Dewsbury, Kirkburton, and Sandal Magna, among those - 
specified, the charter if genuine would prove not only that these churches 
had been given to Lewes priory before 1098, but that therefore the manor 
of Wakefield, which was in the king’s hand at the Domesday survey, and 
within the limits of which those churches lay, had become a portion of the 
honour of Warenne before that year. 

After a detailed recital of gifts made by his father and the tenants of the 
honour and by himself, the grantor passes on to a long narrative describing 
the scene at the high altar when the priory church was dedicated, and a 
further gift which he then made. A record of further gifts made by his 
tenants and himself, and a statement that his gift and confirmation were 
offered on the altar in the presence and with the consent of Rainald his 
brother, are followed by further narrative and some final clauses which 
include a promise to found a monastery at Castle Acre to be subject to 
Lewes. Taken as a whole the form of the document invites suspicion. This 
suspicion is reinforced by an examination of some of the statements it 
contains, and of some of the actual gifts which it purports to confirm. It 
is convenient to examine these in detail : 

(u) The promise relating to the proposed monastery at Castle Acre is 
said to have been made at the request of countess Isabel, the grantor’s wife. 
As she did not marry the grantor before June 1118, when her first husband 
died, it is impossible to suppose that she could have been mentioned by the 
grantor as his wife in a charter issued not later than 1097. 

(b) The church of Ardingly [Sussex] is included among the grantor’s 
gifts. This was one of six churches included in a charter of the second earl, 
the original of which is in existence (no. 15 below), to all appearance recording 
the original gift; and the extreme limits of that charter are 1106-18. 

(c) The church of Kingston [near Lewes] with one acre of land on which 
the church was standing is also included among his gifts. It is at least 
doubtful whether the church of Kingston had been built as early as 1091-97. 
There is another charter in the Chartulary which shows that Peter the 
sheriff (who was holding office in 1106-18; see no. 15) gave an acre for the 
making of the church, and that the second earl did not confirm the acre until 
the time of a later sheriff.? 


1 No certain date can be given for the gift of the manor of Wakefield. 
The latest date is 1121 (no. 10 below); and for the likely date of c. 1106 see 
the Introduction to Chapter LV. 

2 Chartulary, f. 20V (S.R.S., i, 34); and cf. the notes to nos. 17, 20 below. 
It is difficult to accept the statement in V.C.H. Sussex, vii, 58 that in 1095 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 65 


(d) A hide of land which William de Petroponte gave in Rottingdean 
is also specified. It is significant that in the comprehensive charter of Ralph, 
archbishop of Canterbury, issued in 1121, there is. no mention of a hide of 
land in Rottingdean, but only of the church there.’ Moreover the second earl 
confirmed William de Pierrepont’s gift of a hide of land in Rottingdean in a 
charter to which no earlier date than c. 1130-1138 can be assigned (no. 20). 
It is unlikely that William de Pierrepont had succeeded his father Siparcagt 
(see no. 13) so early as 1097. 

(e) The grantor states that he had given licences to fish, and to take 
venison for the use of sick monks. These licences were the subject of two 
separate charters issued half a century later by the third earl in terms which 
strongly suggest that they were the initial grants (nos. 37-8). 

(f) The inclusion of the church of Wakefield raises a further difficulty 
which is examined in the note to no. 9 below. 

Such examples make the acceptance of the document as a genuine charter 
of 1091-97 impossible; and the anachronisms in it are too widely separated 
to make it possible to save its credit by dividing it into parts. This was sug- 
gested by Farrer, who was doubtless aware of the difficulty caused by the 
mention of countess Isabel towards the end. But the line he draws, in saying 
that at a certain point probably the earl’s charter ended, and that the ensuing 
clauses appeared to be later additions,” is an arbitrary one; and actually some 
of the anachronisms given above occur in an earlier part of the document. 
Moreover, as has been mentioned in Appendix D above, the notary in 1417 
inspected it and found it sealed, and it therefore appeared to him to be a 
genuine charter. The fact that it was sealed makes it difficult to support 
the possibility of later additions of considerable length having been made 
to an original charter. Indeed, an anachronism in any part of the document 
must necessarily be fatal to the authenticity of the whole, and the reference 
to countess Isabel is by itself sufficient to condemn it. It must therefore 
be considered as a fabrication, made at some period not later than c. 1306, 
when it was copied into the first confirmation charter of John de Warenne, 
earl of Surrey. 

It is not, however, necessary to suppose that the second earl did not . 
issue a charter to Lewes priory in the period 1091-97 with these witnesses— - 
whose names may have been borrowed from it for the fabricated document; 
but there is no evidence to show what was actually contained in it. 

In the Chartulary there are copies of further documents purporting to 
be charters issued by the second earl, confirming the specific benefactions of 
his parents and making some of his own.® The first of these is a reduced 
version of the longer document considered above, with much of the same 
narrative and several of the same clauses, though apparently without any of 
the anachronisms which condemn the longer one. It is impossible to suppose 


William de Warenne II confirmed to the priory the gift of the church; the 
authority cited is S.R.S., i, 21; but that was a charter issued not by the 
second earl c. 1095, but by the third earl in 1147 (see 2bid., i, p. xxii, and 
the note to no. 33 below). 

1 Ancient Charters, Pipe Roll Soc., no. 8 (no. 10 below). 

2 H.K.F., iti, 312. 

S17 i Siioes yo), ana. 17% (S.4.S:, 4, 27); 


66 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


that both these documents are copies of genuine charters.!' The narrative 
gives the additional statement that the grantor had obtained a charter of 
confirmation from king William II in his council at Winchester, and that a 
few years passed after that before the dedication of the priory church. The 
list of gifts is far smaller, and does not include any of the Yorkshire churches. 

A final point relating to the Yorkshire churches remains to be con- 
sidered. In the three confirmations, as noted above, only the churches of 
Conisborough and Wakefield are mentioned by name, whereas in the text 
beginning on f. 12 of the Chartulary, which purports to be the copy of an 
original, two groups of churches—one within the limits of the soke of Conis- 
borough, and the other within the limits of the manor of Wakefield—are 
included. It is possible that these additional churches were omitted on 
purpose in the confirmations; but it is more likely that the original document 
did not include them when written, and that they were the subject of a 
marginal or interlinear addition thereto at some date before the chartulary 
was compiled in 1444.2 In any event the point is of minor significance if the 
general deduction that the document is itself a fabrication is accepted. It will 
be noticed that in the confirmation charter issued by Ralph, archbishop 
of Canterbury, in 1121 (no. 10 below) only the churches of Wakefield and 
Conisborough in Yorkshire are mentioned by name; but that in the con- 
firmation charter issued by the third earl in 1147 (no. 34) two lists of addition- 
al churches and chapels are included. It was, perhaps, from the original 
of this latter charter that the addition, as suggested above, was made. 


7. Confirmation by William de Warenne [second] earl of Surrey 
to Lewes priory of all the churches, tithes and lands belonging 
thereto given by his father, his mother, himself or his men, or 
to be given in future. [1088-1118] 

PLATE II 
Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15400. Lewes Chartulary, 
22V: 3 translation in S.R.S., i, 40. 

W. de Warenna comes Sudreie . omnibus fidelibus suis Francis 
et Anglis salutem. Sciatis me concessisse Deo et sancto Pancratio . 
omnes ecclesias decimas . et terras . ad eas pertinentes quas pater meus 
et mater mea uel ego seu homines mei ei deder[unt] . uel daturi sunt . 
quas habuerunt monachi eidem sancto seruientes uel habituri sunt . 
ut quomodocumque terre mutentur . ecclesie decime et terre . semper 

ad eundem locum remaneant. 


On a tongue of the parchment : De eclestis . decimis . et terrts. 
Endorsed: V. B. ii. Also in a medteval hand : Co[mitis| secund: de 
omnibus ecclesits . et terris. 


The mention of gifts made by the grantor suggests that this was not the 
first charter which he issued to the priory; but it is unlikely that it was later 


iiij 
1 Incidentally this shorter one is numbered 4, as taken from a charter 
with that endorsement, and the longer one has no number in the Chartulary. 


2 This is the suggestion made by Mr. Salzman in his Introduction to 
So eSeev Ober XX1, 


3 Numbered 5 


a 


Rica De Ly 


No. 7 


Wet) eel ate eee 


q 
1 


en wo 7 
Seat) ai. 
nit < 
Oy 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 67 


in date than 1118, the latest date for nos. 12-15 below. It was possibly issued 
not very long after he succeeded his father in 1088 or at a date shortly 
after his recovery of his lands in 1103 (see p: 7 above). 


8. Gift by William de Warenne [second] earl [of Surrey] to Lewes 
priory of the church of Conisborough and all its belongings. 
[1088-1121] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F.xv, f. 20.1 Translation in 
Silat, dos 


Notum sit presentibus et futuris quod ego Willelmus de Warenna 
comes dono Deo et sanctis apostolis ejus Petro et Paulo et beato 
Pancracio, pro salute anime mee et patris mei et matris mee, ecclesiam 
de Cuningeburgh’ cum omnibus que ad eam pertinent. 


It has been generally accepted that the church of Conisborough was 
given to the priory in the period 1091-97.? The sole evidence for this is the 
list of witnesses to the supposed general confirmation charter of the second 
earl in the Lewes Chartulary. This document, however, cannot be accepted 
as genuine (see the note to no. 6 above); and there is therefore no evidence 
that the church was given within these limits of date. The gift was certainly 
made not later than 1121, as the churches of Wakefield and Conisborough 
are included in the comprehensive contirmation charter issued to the priory 
by Ralph, archbishop of Canterbury, and dated in that year (no. 10 below). 

Among the entries on two leaves of a register of the priory, dating from 
the early part of the twelfth century,’ are the following : 


Ecclesia de Chuningesburch et que ad illam pertinent cum decima 
de aula reddit modo xv. solidos et plus potest reddere. 

Ecclesia de Wachefella cum illis que ad illam pertinent et cum 
decima de aula modo reddit xxx. et v. solidos et plus potest reddere. 


9. Gift by William de Warenne [second] earl of Surrey to Lewes 
priory of the churches of Wakefield and all things belonging 
thereto until he restored them to the heirs of Druard, and if the 
heirs of Druard conceded them he conceded them for ever. 

[1106-21] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 21¥.4 Translation 
inSSi.5..8e 36. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Willelmus de Warenna comes 
Suthreie dedi sancto Pancratio ecclesias de Wakefelda cum omnibus 
rebus que ad eas pertinent sive in terris sive in decimis seu in aliis 
rebus, pro anima mea et patris ac matris mee atque antecessorum 
meorum, donec ipsas reddam heredibus Druardi, et si heredes Druardi 
concedunt ego eciam concedo in perpetuum. Test[ibus], etc. 

1 Numbered a 

2 Hunter, South Yorkshire, i, 105; and cf. Fastt Parochiales, Y.R.S., 
i, 68. 
3 Cotton MS. Vesp. E. ii, ff. 106-107%. Pd. in Mon. Ang., v, 9n. 


+ Numbered “ 


68 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


There can be little doubt that Druard, mentioned in this charter, was 
the Drohard ‘de Wacchesfelda’ who witnessed another charter of the second 
earl, 1106-18 (no. 15). As Druard was dead when the present charter was 
issued, its earliest date is 1106, but later than no. 15. It was evidently issued 
earlier than any general confirmation charter which includes the church of 
Wakefield. Its latest date is therefore 1121 (see no. 10). The church of 
Wakefield, together with other churches within the limits of the manor, 
was included in the document in the Lewes Chartulary which purports to be 
a general confirmation charter of the second earl, and which, if genuine, was 
issued in the period 1091-97 (see no. 6). That would involve the deduction 
that Druard died before 1098, whereas he was apparently alive in 1106. 
Reasons, however, have been given at no. 6 to show that the document 
cannot be accepted as a genuine charter, and the present charter provides © 
an additional reason for that view. 

It.is likely that Druard can further be identified with Droard son of 
Cade, lord of Ditton [Wood Ditton, co. Cambridge], who with Wimarc his 
wife, for the souls of themselves, Stephen count of Britanny, and William 
earl de Warenne, made a gift to Thetford priory, Norfolk, of the church of 
All Saints in Ditton; their gift being confirmed by Baldwin de Say and 
Wimarc his wife.1 Thetford, a Cluniac house like Lewes, was founded quite 
early in the twelfth century. The mention of count Stephen is explained 
by the fact that part of Wood Ditton was held of the honour of Richmond; 
and the mention of earl de Warenne, of whom Droard son of Cade was 
evidently a tenant, is significant.’ 


10. General confirmation by Ralph, archbishop of Canterbury, to 
Lewes priory of its churches and other possessions, including 
the churches of Wakefield and Conisborough. 1121. 


Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed AA. 464.4 Pd. in Ancient 
Charters, Pipe Roll Soc. vol. x, no. 8. Facsimile in Johnson 
and Jenkinson, English Court Hand, part ii, plate III. 


Radulfus Dei gratia Cantuariensis archiepiscopus . et totius Brit- 
annie primas . omnibus in Christo filiis presentibus et futuris in per- 
petuum . . . Quapropter tam ipsum monasterium in episcopatu Cices- 
trensi situm . quam et ea que possidet episcopali benedictione firm- 
amus . et pia petitione filii nostri Hugonis ipsius loci prioris . nostri 
auctoritate priuilegii roboramus . . . In episcopatu Eboracensi . ecclesias 
de Wachefelda et de Cuningesburch et que ad eas pertinent. . . Con- 
firmo etiam et laudo quecunque eidem monasterio donata sunt et 

1 Mon. Ang., v, 143. 

2 Farrer, Feudal Cambridgeshire, pp. 42-3; E.Y.C., v, pp. 234-6. 

3 The question of Druard was discussed by the present writer in the 
introductory notes to the Yorkshire portion of the Lewes Chartulary 
(Y.A.J., xxxi, pp. 291-2). It was there suggested that Droard son of Cade 
was not the same person as Druard who possessed an interest in the church 
of Wakefield. But this was for chronological reasons, based on the assump- 
tion that the second earl issued a general confirmation charter, which in- 
cluded the church of Wakefield, between 1091 and 1098, and that therefore 


Druard must have died before then. As the charter cannot be accepted as 
genuine that assumption must now be abandoned. 


* Formerly Misc. Books (Chapter House), B 2, {; 1 2). 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 69 


concessa a dominis nostris regibus Willelmo primo et Willelmo secundo 
et Henrico . et a comitibus Suthregie Willelmo primo et Willelmo 
secundo deuotis ipsius monasterii fundatoribus . qui omnia que s[ancto] 
Pancratio dederunt . ita libere et absolute dederunt . sicut melius ea 
ipsi tenuerunt . . . 9 Ego Radulfus Cantuar[iensis] archiepiscopus 
dedi et subscripsi . > . Dat{um] Melling’ per manum Johannis can- 
cellarii et archidiaconi . anno uerbi incarnati .M°.c°.xx°.1. papa. Rom- 
anorum:Calixto .1°. rege Anglorum Henrico. 


Only the places specified in the diocese of York are included in the 
above extract. The charter mentions a large number of places in several 
other dioceses. In the same year, 1121, Ralph, bishop of Chichester, issued 
a charter confirming to the .priory’a long list of churches in his diocese.’ 
This list corresponds ‘closely to that contained in the archbishop’s charter; 
but there are a few additional churches, of which the church of Kingston is 
of particular importance; see no. 20 below. Ralph, bishop of Chichester, 
issued another charter of which the original has been preserved; this, un- 
dated, confirmed a long list of tithes, but no churches are mentioned.? 


11. Grant by William [?second] earl de Warenne and countess Isabel 
to Pontefract priory of 3s. yearly from the land of Saxe in 
[Middle] Shitlington. [1118-30] 

Pontefract Chartulary, Woolley Park MS. (on, deposit with Yorks. 


Arch. Soc., DD 57b), f. 66. Pd. in Pontefract Chartulary, no. 
401. ; 


Notum sit omnibus hominibus qui sunt et qui venturi sunt quod 
ego WJ[illelmus] comes de Waren[na] et ego Ysabel comitissa con- 
cedimus monachis de sancto Johanne de terra Sacsi quam idem Sacsi 
habet in Silintona® tres solidos unoquoque anno donec inde aliud pre- 
cipiamus. Teste, Walleio* presbitero. 


In a confirmation charter issued by Theobald, archbishop of Canterbury, 
to Pontefract priory in 1153-54 there were included gifts of 12 bovates of 
land in Shitlington (Sithintuna), being 6 of the gift of Hugh de Laval and 6 
of William earl de Warenne.> The latter constituted the entire holding in 
Shitlington which was soke of the manor of Wakefield at the Survey. It is 
likely that these two gifts of lands, belonging respectively to the honour of 
Pontefract and the manor of Wakefield, were made about the same time. 
Hugh de Laval, who held the honour of Pontefract after the forfeiture of 
Robert de Lascy, died before Michaelmas 1130;° and the donor of the other 
6 bovates would therefore have been William second earl de Warenne. The 


| AOE i en ee 

1 This is not an original, but a later copy in Cotton MS. Vitellius E. x, 
f. 190Y (old f. 182), of which a full translation and the passage relating to 
the churches is given in Sussex Arch. Collections, xxxv, 1983. 

2 Anc. Deed A. 14176; full translation in Sussex Notes and Queries, i, 
49; the phrase occurs ‘because it would be a lengthy matter to describe all 
the churches and lands, we have only taken care to name the tithes.’ Ralph 
was bp of Chichester from 1091 to 1123. 

3 Scithlington so spelt in the same hand in margin. 

+ Not Waltero as in the pd. text. 

5 E.Y.C., iii, no. 1475; and cf. the confirmation of Henry IL (2bid., 
no. 1451). 

6 Ibdid., iii, p. 143. 


70 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


present charter, making a benefaction subject to revision, was evidently 
issued earlier. The mention of countess Isabel fixes the earliest date as 
1118; and the limits 1118-30 can be suggested.’ 

It will be noted in the Horbury section in Chapter IV that the portion 
of the vill of Shitlington which belonged to the manor of Wakefield was 
Middle Shitlington; and that Saxe was the ancestor of the family which took 
its name from Horbury. As the date of his birth can be placed as c. 1100 
the present charter was presumably issued late in the period assigned; he 
was succeeded by Matthew his son at a date not later than the period 1155-58. 


12. Gift by William de Warenne [second] earl of Surrey to Lewes 
priory, for the souls of his parents and the health of himself and 
Rainald his brother, of all the land held of him by William de 
Cailli, and of land in Shippy [in Tilney All Saints, Norfolk], 
‘Salingeford’ [Norfolk] and the marsh of Lynn, of 2 hides held 
of him by Walter de Grandcourt in Willingham [co. Cambridge], 
and land of his demesne near Chailey [Sussex]. [1088-1118] 

PLATE III 
Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 10988; pd. in Cat. Anc. 


Deeds, v, 75. Lewes Chartulary, f. 18 (without witnesses); ? 
translation in S.R.S., i, 29. 


Notum sit tam presentibus quam futuris quod ego Willelmus de 
Warenna comes Sudreie dono Deo et sanctis apostolis eius Petro et 
Paulo ad locum sancti Pancratii pro anima patris mei et matris mee et 
mea ipsius et Rainaldi fratris mei salute . omnem terram quam Willel- 
mus de Caili de me tenet . et illam terram quam habuer[unt] idem 
monachi in Sipea[m] que reddit xvi solidos . et illud quod habebam 
in Salingeford et in marisco de Luna xvi solidatas . ac illas duas iddas 
quas Walterius de Grandcurt tenet de me in Welingeha[m] . et omnem 
terram quam Stangrinus presbiter de me tenet . ac quicquid habebam 
in dominio meo a ponte Bouehorne usque Ceagelie ab orientali uia siue 
in terra seu in silua usque ad uiam iuxta pontem de Hamwde?® Rad[ulfi] 
de Querceto; Testes sunt* Rodgerius de Glowecestrre et frater eius 
Hosbertus Godefred[us] de Petraponte . Ricard[us] de Warenna Hogo 
de Greniosa uilla . Rodbertus de Buseuilla. 


Tag for seal. 


Endorsed: VI. C.iij. Also in different medieval hands: (i) de 
Willelmo de Caili et Staingrio presbitero et multis alus; (ii) Welingeby et 
Salyngeford ; (iii) W. com’ Warenn.’ 


! Farrer in his H.K.F. MS. (as also in E.Y.C., iii, p. 380) suggests 
c. 1153-1155, assigning it to the fourth earl, presumably in view of the fact 
that countess Isabel joined in the gift. But for other charters in which 
countess Isabel, wife of the second earl, joined with her husband as grantor 
see nos. 20, 23, 27-9 below. Holmes in his pd. text in Pontefract Chartulary 
assigns it to the second earl. 

2 Numbered = 

3 Bouehorne bridge is now Bevern bridge in Chailey (Place-Names of 
Sussex, Eng. Place-Name Soc., p. 297). There is a Great Home Wood, 1¢ 
mile s.w. of Chailey, marked on the 1 in. Ordnance map. 

+ In a different hand to the end. 


PLATE III 


‘ut ££ Aq Sor azig 


ayy eed Op eis vitus 8, be 2p aa ee rated. ay maby, 


| 
ex 


ZI ‘ON 


‘ 
ee 4 


LOREM, 
vy ene ain Fe 


) by autlogneg 


AnITAS UL iat , 


Bate: 


| yi a whee: 
nang ap Fe ¥ 2d esis 8 ae wae vari win pe: shyn Sart ui ay vhu a yr nesta joe we 


Fraud 


_amuody osu hee ub rpgqey cbobor 29ud2. JUL ad agpud wilSung{ ot via. SUD FD - & 
gaol und. ee Pra bee yb, ey EeP eats Mad id 4 a Lane ‘ped | 2p oofi, teu ube p> ; 
aa eee L pa iy Un FeprruoUtt LLI9GI bngra vnb le yh ae ae au op ed bhai Anes 
wt -aaTT]Uy Tour joie 2 vurel a 1jdi-eou 2 20u pbrue pus nind vuury db Hate 7 ee ts 

afte as wy weal 2p aagray oe ae 2 ‘een 


. ead fd wa TO Jt ay i ee ae ee x 

p : “4 » ‘ #, a an 1s 
Ki 4 * . ’ vf cs 

n+ ( : ’ m4 ' ° 


} ‘ ory Bee 
‘ : aha a 
Par , : n 1. , i. ne / ae a 
R & . [ wat EAS atta @ 


\ ie: § > 
Alaa aa 

She Sn 
aa iis ’ 


: Pyls : ech 


a 


é tebe a. * 
wens & 
+ ake ees 


PLATE IV 


“ur Aq 76 ez1g 


£1 ‘ON 


Lt See ae f Fe 
Paha in Ping! 
s ree Foe : sia \ b: sd tian Pee SNe 9 
+ oe es bl De ES agian ‘ é 
’ - : a. ‘ . a *) ' - 


agaafut Gx iS 


are 6 | anol rare Stamey pets, Mae een 


ae ‘aaztmbap if 


re 1 Far ouop. {1 
re as oe peo 


TESS {-anod aadop. 
22 vadilojong x TULUIOU, econ 


‘gui ov eaainb ~ ‘eoghy. une VItiuLo 5( 


2p fouovespuply fe dvoor,t, cae AY, j {pb ipyeurel pu er 


fetnzif ae rou vuiuy ald oe fous fbawint Y Bus folaed v8 2 ay narod of 
se) ev owned » al eR oye 4. Pad oP “ ee Wed four 


‘cpmeo WU LS 


| 


~ 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 71 


The words of reference to the grantor’s brother Rainald show that he 
was alive. The latest date when he is known to have been living is 1106 
(see p. 6 above); and the latest possible date for his death is 1118 (note to 
no. 15). An early date for this charter is assured,’ as William de Cailli and 
Walter de Grandcourt, still alive, were Domesday tenants of William de 
Warenne in Norfolk,? the latter also in Cambridgeshire,? and Godfrey de 
Pierrepont, the third witness, in Sussex and Suffolk.* The last witness may 
have been of the same family as Elias son of Hugh de Bosville, a tenant of the 
honour of Conisborough at a later date (see the introduction to the Neuf- 
marché fees in Chapter ILI). Nothing seems to be known of Richard de 
Warenne, the fourth witness. 


13. Gift by William [second] earl of Surrey to Lewes priory of 3 
hides in Moulscombe [Sussex] and whatever Ricoard the arch- 
deacon held of his father and him. [1088-1118] 

PLATE IV 


Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15404°; pd. in Ancient 
Charters, Pipe Roll Soc. vol. x, no. 5. Lewes Chartulary, f. 
19V (first witness only) ®; translation in S.R.S., i, 30. 


Ego Willelmus comes Suthreie dono Deo et sanctis apostolis 
eius Petro et Paulo ad locum sancti Pancratii pro anima patris mei et 
matris mee et pro anima mea et fratris mei Rainaldi tres Aidas in Mule- 
scumba’ . et quicquid Ricoardus archidiaconus de patre meo et de 
me ubicumque tenebat. Hec cmnia tam libera et quieta ab omnibus 
causis dono . sicut est terra de Falemella. Testibus his . quorum 
nomina subscripta sunt. S’ > Willelmi comitis . S’[>]& Radljulfi de 
Querceto . > S’ Rotberti de Petraponte . > S’ Willelmi filii Godefredi 
de Petrapont[e] [>] S’ Radulfi filii Radulfi . & S’ Godefredi de Petra- 
ponte > S’ Nigelli generi Godefredi . > S’ Hunfredi. 


Endorsed: V1. C.vj. Also: . . . tribus hydis in Muliscumbe ; and : 
Molescumbe vj. 


The latest date can be taken as 1118, for, as Round pointed out in his 
note to the text in Ancient Charters, it was clearly issued before the earl’s 
marriage. He identified Ricoard the archdeacon with the Ricoardus who 
held land in Patcham (the parish in which Moulscombe lies) of William de 
Warenne in 1086.8 He also supposed that as this gift was not included in 
king Henry I’s confirmation, 1107-18,° it must have been made later; but 
that deduction cannot be supported, for the king’s confirmation was not com- 
prehensive, excluding as it did such properties as Falmer in Sussex and West 
Walton in Norfolk, acquired by the priory at an earlier date.1° Although 


Farrer, in H.K.F., iii, 300, definitely assigns this charter to ante 1106. 
Ibid., pp. 382, 389. 
Ibid., p. 437. 4 Ihid.,: Pausaee 


5 Formerly Misc. Books (Chapter House), B 2, f. 54 (1). 
® Numbered a 


7 Damaged; words in italics from Chartulary text. 
wa 25! 
9 Ancient Charters, no. 4. 10 See charters nos, 3 and 4 above, 


wr 


72 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


the reference to the earl’s brother Rainald is not so clear as in the previous 
charter, it seems safe to deduce that he was still alive; and the handwriting, 
in the same early hand, suggests that the two charters belong to the same 
period. 

The first witness Ralph de Chesney, also mentioned in no. 12, was a 
Domesday tenant of William de Warenne in Sussex and Norfolk;' and Round 
suggested that the fourth witness was his son. ' Robert de Pierrepont was 
similarly a Domesday tenant in Sussex and Suffolk.? It is probable that he 
and Godfrey, also a witness to no. 12, were the donors of the tithe of Cuver- 
ville to the abbey of St. Michael, Le Tréport.? 


14. Gift by William [second] earl [of Surrey] to Lewes priory of 
the land which Bristelmus had held in Swanborough [Sussex], 
and whatever he held in the suburb of the earl’s castle; also 
confirmation of 12 acres in Swanborough which Tosard had 
given. , [1088-1118] 

PLATE V 
Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15407. Lewes Chartulary, 
f. 21Y:* translation 15:0. o., 1, a0: 

Notum sit presentibus et futuris quod ego Willelmus comes Deo 
et sancto Pancratio dedi et® concessi terram quam Bristelmus habuerat 
in Suamberga . et quicquid idem Bristelmus habuit in suburbio castelli 
mei. Concessi etiam in supradicta uilla de terra Tosardi .xij. acras quas 
idem prius dederat. 


_ Shts for tag. 
Endorsed: D. ij VI. Also in an early hand: De terra Tosardi. 
et Bristelmi in Suamberga. 


The form of this charter, written in the same early hand as nos. 12 and 
13, suggests that it belongs to the same period. 


15. Gift by William [second] earl de Warenne to Lewes priory, 
for the souls of William his father and Gundreda his mother, 
and for the remission of his sins and for the soul of Rainald his 
brother and’ his other relations deceased, of the churches of 
Brighton, Hangleton, Clayton, Keymer, Barcombe, and Ard- 
ingly [Sussex]. [1106-18] 

PLATE VI 


Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15412. Lewes Chartulary, 
f. 23 (without witnesses);° translation in S.R.S., i, 40. 


1 H.K.F., iii, pp. 313 et seg., where there is a pedigree of the Chesney 
family. John de Chesney, son of the younger Ralph, made an agreement 
with Lewes priory in 1147 (ibid., p. 315; and see the note to no. 33 below). 

2 Ibid., p. 331. 

3 Cal. Docs. France, no. 230, where Godfrey is given in the abstract as 
Robert’s son; but this is a mistake, for from a note by L. C. Loyd, citing 
Coquelin, Histoire de. . . St. Michel du Tréport (Soc. Hist. Norm.), 1, pp. 
327, 340, it is clear that they were brothers. 


* Numbered = 
> Damaged; words in italics from Chartulary text. 
‘ © Numbered > 


PLATE V 


the 


: : * aah ate sg 
| upbre caltell mer.Concefh 
ifka walla de a ol 


t 
a 


No. 14 Size 38 by 62 in. 


4 
ake mF 
Sal a , | | : 2 
. - —— my 


2 +r ( Md 
| 
' ‘ 
+ ie é 
} s i 
’ 
‘ { 
i ie 
P is ta 
. ‘ 
My 
’ 
5 . 
: < 
~ 
» 
? 
> 
' 
« 
t 4 
4 
, 
~ 
* 
. = 
»/ 
a 
7 ie — 
. 
7 
j 
——— 
i) 
a 
‘ 
- 7 
Dt ae 
is | 
ré ‘ ‘ 
| 
a Lm 
i. 
y “ e 
4 - 
= ~ 
a a 
i 
- 3 
- “ 
a 
4 
- = 
7 7 
yd j *. 
‘A it 
M4 — . 
* 
¥ * 
: 
‘ 
> - t * 
7 . 
g 
. 


Pa eased 


=a 7 
oe 
‘ 
: 
: 
‘ 
f 
~ 


ae ou _- : 


= 
. 


ae) 


PLATE VI 


= 
oe 
19 |00 
N 
m 
fe) 
ro 
\O 
oO 
N 
os 
ww 
: 
: 
wy 
—~ 5 
° 
as . 
F 
. 
‘ 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 73 


Notum sit omnibus hominibus presentibus et futuris . quod ego 
Willelmus comes de Warenna concedo Deo et sancto Pancratio . pro 
anima patris mei Willelmi . et Gundrede matris mee et pro remissione 
meorum peccatorum . et pro anima Rainaldi fratris mei . et aliorum 
meorum parentum defunctorum . istas .vj. meas hecclesias . videlicet 
hecclesiam de Bristelmistona . et hecclesiam . de Hangueltona . et 
hecclesiam . de Claitona . et hecclesiam de Chiemella . et hecclesiam 
de Bercamis . et hecclesiam de Hardingueleia. T[estibus] . Petro 
vicecomite et . Drohardo de Wacchesfelda . et Geraldo capell[ano]. 


Endorsed : de vj. ecclesiis . Also on the back of a piece of parch- 
ment attached (the front of which has 14th cent. writing) : D.xvij. VI. 


As Rainald, the earl’s brother, was dead when this charter was issued 
its earliest date is 1106. The latest date is 1118, as the same six churches 
were included in king Henry I’s confirmation, issued not later than that 
year.1. In that confirmation these churches are stated to have been of the 
gift of William de Warenne, earl of Surrey. The present charter has a special 
Yorkshire interest in view of the second witness; see the note to no. 9, which 
was issued later. 


16. Confirmation by William de Warenne [second] earl of Surrey 
to Lewes priory of 18 acres of land and grazing for 100 sheep in 
Harpingden [in Piddinghoe, Sussex], which William de Harp- 
ingden gave with the consent of William de Pierrepont, of whom 
he held them, and who had asked the earl to confirm the gift. 

[c. 1106-1121] 


Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15405. Lewes Chartulary, 
f. 20 (without witnesses); ? translation in S.R.S., i, 33. 


Sciant presentes et? futuri quod ego Willelmus de Warenna comes 
Suthreie concedo Deo et sancto Pancratio .xviij. acras terre et pascua 
centum ouium in Herbertingis . pro anima mea et antecessorum 
meorum . quas Willelmus de Herbertingis predicto loco dedit annuente 
Willelmo de Petreponte de quo eas tenuit . et ut hoc donum concederem 
postulante. Test[ibus] Joscelino Tresiceful et Petro uicecomite . et 
Girardo clerico et Alwino de Wintonia . et Gisleberto filio Goze. 


Tag for seal. 


Endorsed : VI. C.xii. Also: de xvitj. acris . et pascuis . c. ouium . 

in Herbetingis. 

18 acres of land at Herbertingas with pasture for 100 sheep are included 
in the confirmation charter of Ralph, archbishop of Canterbury, issued in 
1121.4 It would appear that the present charter was issued after William de 
Pierrepont succeeded his father Godfrey; and Peter the sheriff [of Lewes] 
occurs in the period 1106-18 (no. 15). 


ee ee a ee 


1 Ancient Charters, no. 4. 


2 Numbered 2 


3 Both the ampersand and tironian sign are used in this charter. 
+ Ancient Charters, no. 8 (no. 10 above). 


74 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


17. Mandate by William [second] earl de Warenne to Hugh his 
sheriff with regard to the land of Lewes priory and any claims 
made against its men. [c. 1118-c. 1130] 

PLATE VII 


Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15409. Lewes Chartulary, 
f, 22V (without witness);* translation in S.R.S., i, 39. 


.W. comes . de Warenna . Hvg[oni] . vic[ecomiti] . ceterisque 
suis villicis et omnibus suis hominibus salutem. Sciatis terram sancti 
Pancratii et homines et omnes res eius esse in mea custodia et aduoca- 
tione. Et prohibeo ne aliquis capiat quicquid de pecunia sua . sed si 
clamauerit quicquid erga homines sancti Pancr[atii] ostendat prius 
priori . et si non fecerit . ei rectitudinem . clamet se inde mihi si in 
patria fuero uel meo vicecomiti . quod si aliquis super hoc faceret eis 
iniuriam uel quicquid caperet de suo . eodem modo esset . forifactus 
erga me sicut de meis rebus propriis quum omnes res sancti Pancratii 
sunt in mea manu et plus adhuc quum mea elemosina. T[este] Willelmo 
de Criketoth. 


Endorsed : D. xiij. VI.3; (also some descriptive words). 


Earl William [the second earl] notified Hugh the sheriff of Lewes that 
he confirmed land which Peter the sheriff had given for the making of the 
church of Kingston. Hugh was therefore a later sheriff than Peter, who 
held the office in 1106-18 (no. 15). He was an earlier sheriff than William, 
who held the office in c. 1130-1138 (no. 20), witnessing a charter certainly 
later than the notification just mentioned; to that charter William de 
Criquetot? was also a witness. 


18. Notification by William [second] earl de Warenne to H[ervey], 
bishop of Ely, that he had confirmed to Lewes priory the gift 
of the church of Weston [Weston Colville, co. Cambridge] made 
by Stephen his chaplain ; and request that the bishop also would 
confirm it. [1121-31] 

PLATE VIII 
Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 14294; abst. in Lewes 


Chartulary, Cambridgeshive portion, no. 71. Lewes Chartulary, 
f. 22V (without witnesses);* translation in S.R.S., i, 39. 


.-H. Dei gracia Heliensi episcopo uenerabili ac uenerando domino 
suo et patri spiritali omnibusque hominibus suis Francis et Anglicis 
.W. comes de Warenna salutem; Notum sit omnibus uobis me con- 
cessisse hanc donacionem quam facit dominus Stephanus capellanus 
meus . ecclesiam scilicet de Westonia ecclesie sancti Pancracii et litteris 
meis confirmasse pro salute mea . et anima patris mei et parentum et 

antecessorum meorum. Ideoque mando uobis et precor ut simili modo 


1 Numbered = 

2 Lewes Chartulary, f. 20V (S.R.S., i, 34). 

3 It seems likely that he took his name from Criquetot-sur-Longueville, 
arr. Dieppe, cant. Longueville, or, less likely, from Criquetot-sur-Ouville, arr. 
Yvetot, cant. Yerville. He witnessed a charter of the second earl to the 
priory of Longueville (no. 28). 


* And the bishop’s initial omitted. Numbered > 


PUATE Vil 


Size 53 by 12 in. 


a 


f io re _—_ 
— a on ee 
- - - a , = “ aoe 
a . = - 6 
4 7 ‘*: 

i b i ° ; 
: - ~ 4 « wis 
+ : : 

‘ - i 
* 
< 
— ‘ ’ 
< 


“ur $z Aq 8 aztg gi ‘on 


5; mp4 wean (2 “iaad a A : os ae e Laka tite ice 
Wi ‘Wy oe a ; Bein 

| Haley oe aay) on" ylhawo n dues macs Oy > 9? ya na | co 
yal * " ie sole Jou hie Pee eet aay Jerre 9 4 
mae oor a pea iain ogi ol mkt oes SS 


PLATE VIII 


; “ 


baad vor Z “vow aay fi ffen ai}o9 Ji tu Jjua2aay l Sh 919 urd o\ ae yUroi}> iS, 


* 
Ly 


fm) wre foam” aoppieamprnglag, jug _aoef aonb touonviig 294 Aplhe 
4 “4 tr! oe yung 


— 93 AW qugon Gre aa). binas ’ pwe A ais Ws jou} }r| Grou 


A : 
3 0 wuv12Ipn 9 
ee eee 4 - tare, SOF eR ge oe ei im iby : n 


ic E, 


C 
* 


iy. m 
° Ph a 
: wi2 3 wie VO «a8 ee 

neti Vee TL eA 0d yey 4 oe oy ot er ea) 
SS TMT MELE ARES WHE TL tO ON en Oe 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 79 


ex parte uestra hoc concedatis et litteris uestris confirmetis; Huius 
autem donacionis et concessionis testes sunt . Robertus de Wisneualli- 
bus et Robertus . conestabulus et comitissa; et Robertus capellanus . 
et Ricardus de Balliolo . et Milo de Baelon. 


Tag with faint remains of a seal of white wax. 
Endorsed: VI. D.xv. Also: De ecclesia Westonie comit’? War’ ; 
and : Vj 
As the countess witnessed the earliest date is 1118. The church was not 
included in the list of churches in the comprehensive confirmation charter 
issued by Ralph, archbishop of Canterbury, in 1121;' it can therefore be 
assumed that the gift had not then been made. Hervey, bishop of Ely, died 
in 1131. The first witness was evidently a member of the Esneval family 
(see p. 2 above). 


19. Mandate by William [second] earl de Warenne to Osmund the 
dispenser to re-seise the monks of Lewes in 10 solidates of land 
in Caston [Norfolk], which Hugh de Grigneuseville had given 
to the priory. [c. 1125-30] 

Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 33.2, Pd. in F. M. 


Stenton, First Century of English Feudalism, p. 269; transla- 
tion in ibid., p. 77, and in S.R.S., i, 62. 


Willelmus comes de Warenna Osm[undo] dispensario salutem. 
Mando tibi et precipio ut ressaisias cito monachos sancti Pancratii de -x. 
solidatis terre quas Hugo de Grinnosa ville donavit Deo et sancto 
Pancratio pro anima sua. Et hoc donum concedo et confirmo eis pro 
anima patris et matris mee de illis .x. solidatis terre dico que est in 
Cotistona. Teste, Willelmo de Truble villa. 

By an earlier charter, later than the death of Rainald his brother, the 
second earl confirmed to the priory the land which William de Grinnosa 
villa had held of him in Heacham, and 10s. 8d. of land in Caston (Catestona) 
which Hugh de Grinnosa villa gave to the priory for the tithes of his land.* 
These gifts were precisely so described in king Henry I’s confirmation 
charter, 1107-18.4 It is clear from the use of the word rvessaisias that some 
default had occurred which made the present mandate necessary. 

Professor Stenton, who assigns the date c. 1125-30 for this mandate, 
points out that it is one of the earliest illustrations which we possess of a 
dispenser being used for a piece of administrative work entirely unconnected 
with the arrangements of an earl’s household (cf. also no. 21 below); adding 
that the last words, which give important information as an afterthought, 
are curiously reminiscent of the postscripts often added to writs of William 
II and Henry I.° 

I Ec aS PE Ee 

1 Ancient Charters, no. 8 (no. 10 above). 

2 Numbered > 


$ Chartulary, f. 21 (S.2.5., 1, 35). 
4 Ancient Charters, no. 4. Incidentally this proves that the latest possible 
date for Rainald’s death is 1118, as is also proved in no. 15 above. 


2 OD, cit., Did: 


76 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Osmund the dispenser witnessed a charter of the second earl and 
countess Isabel with their sons William and Ralph to Castle Acre priory, c. 
1130-1138 (no. 23); and, described as Osmund dispensatoy comitis, another 
charter to the same.! Countess Isabel issued a mandate to him (no. 21); and 
he also held office under the third earl, to one of whose Norfolk charters to 
Lewes priory he occurs as a witness.? 

The witness William de Trublevilla, who does not seem to occur in other 
Lewes charters, was a tenant of the earl in Normandy, being mentioned in a 
charter issued there c. 1130-1138 (no. 28). 


20. Gift by William [second] earl de Warenne and countess Isabel 
and William and Ralph their sons to Lewes priory of the church 
of Kingston [Sussex] and an acre of land; and the stalls which 
Alwin of Winchester held. Also confirmation of a hide of land 
in Rottingdean [Sussex], which William de Pierrepont gave. 

[c. 1130-1138] 
PLATE IX 


Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15406. Lewes Chartulary, 
f. 20Y (without witnesses);* translation in S.R.S., i, 33. 


Notum sit presentibus et futuris guod* ego Willelmus comes de 
Warenna et Isabel comitissa . et Willelmus et Radulfus filii nostri 
donamus Deo et sancto Pancratio in libera elemosina pro salute ani- 
marum nostrarum et patrum et matrum et antecessorum nostrorum 
ecclesiam de Chingestona . et unam acram terre ad ecclesiam. Et 
donamus esseldas quas tenuit Alwinus de Winthonia in libera ele- 
mosina. Concedimus etiam unam hidam terre in Rottingedena quam 
Willelmus de Petreponte dedit Deo et sancto Pancratio et monachis pro 
anima sua ad obitum suum. Test[ibus]. . . one de Scalariis . Willelmo 
de Crichetoht . Willelmo uicecomite . Widone de. . . ecort . Hugo[ne] 
. . . [de] Petreponte co[nfirm]ante hydam terre . et teste. 


Endorsed : C.xiij. VI, on a piece of parchment pasted to the back of 
the charter previously covered with 14th cent. writing; also descriptive 
words relating to the church of Kingestona, and v)j. 


It is unlikely that as the earl’s two sons joined in the gift this charter 
was issued before c. 1130. Although land in Kingston was included in the 
confirmation charter issued by Ralph, archbishop of Canterbury, in 1121, 
there is no mention of the church among the large number of churches in 
Sussex and other counties which he then confirmed;> but the church of 
Kingston was included in the confirmation issued by Ralph, bishop of 
Chichester, in the same year.® It must be deduced, therefore, that the present 
charter did not record the initial gift. A charter entered in the Chartulary 
shows that the church was not built before Peter, sheriff of Lewes, gave 

a 

1 Mon. Ang., v, 51. 

2 Chartulary, f. SY (S.2t,0.5 8,00); 

3 Numbered =a 

+ Damaged; words in italics from Chartulary text. 


5 Ancient Charters, no. 8 (no. 10 above). 
6 Note to no. 10 above, 


PLATE IX 


¢ ; eT 
s a - ay 


ay eh od ory? ey 


‘ut $€ Aq ¥£@ azig 


inna seh eaiiods 


b 


i, zi yt a 
x 2 4 s 


s ep Li a hk fone A es 


n enc 2100.3¢ 
j saint | 
oy eke ute 


No tthe! 


Oz "ON 


‘weg 


ages Tirta Pew, 


F ae anop i \? 2a uior on 


nae & 
yay e a 

eat - Se 
a eo Sey 


OK Sind | 
mde Z navau nave ue p aay} “4 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS Fi ie 


an acre of land for its making (evidently the acre mentioned in the present — 
charter), and that when Hugh was sheriff he was ordered to cause the monks 
to be seised of the acre to the use of the church.! The church was included 
in the confirmation charter issued by the third earl in 1147.2 

Alwin of Winchester, mentioned here, occurs as a witness c. 1106-1121 
(no. 16). 


21. Mandate by Isabel countess de Warenne to Osmund the 
dispenser to cause seisin to be given to the monks of Castle Acre 
of the church of Trunch [Norfolk], which the earl her husband 
had given her, and which she gave to the priory. [1118-c. 1130] 
Castle Acre Chartulary, Harl. MS. 2110, f. 3. Pd. in Mon. Ang., 
v. Si no..6: 

Yssabel comitissa de Warenna Osm[undo] dispensar[io] salutem. 
Scias comitem dominum meum dedisse mihi ecclesiam de Trunceto; 
et ego dono illam Deo et sancte Marie de Acra. Quapropter mando 
tibi et precipio ut facias inde saisiri monachos de Acra et de quocumque 
pertinet ecclesie tam in decimis quam in aliis rebus, et fac illos tenere 
ee et pacifice pro eo ut grates inde tibi sciam. Teste Godefrido cap- 
ellano. 


Thé evidence of the next charter shows that the present mandate must 
have been issued while Wimer was still the earl’s steward in Norfolk. As 
he was a tenant of William de Warenne the first at the Survey it is unlikely 
that he lived much beyond c. 1130. 

The mandate gives another example of the employment of the dispenser 
for administrative work; see no. 19. 


22. Confirmation by William [second]? earl of Surrey to Castle Acre 
priory of the church of Acre and four other churches including 
Trunch. [c. 1130] 

Castle Acre Chartulary, Harl. MS. 2110, f. 1. Pd. in Mon. Ang., 
v, 49, no. 1 (in full). 

Notum sit omnibus tam presentibus quam futuris quod ego 
Willelmus comes de Suthreia, pro salute anime mee et patris mei et 
matris mee et heredum meorum ... Teste, Willelmo filio meo, 
Wimero dapifero, Gaufrido capellano, Willelmo Branche, Waukelino 
de Roseto, Hugone de Wanci, Roberto de Mortuo mare. 


There is a large collection of charters issued by the grantor and his 
successors which are entered in the Chartulary; and several of these are 
available in print.t The Chartulary gives considerable information about 
Wimer, whose office as steward passed to his descendants.* The fact that 


1 Chartulary, f. 20V (S.R.S., i, 34); cf. the note to no. 17 above. 

2 Anc. Deed AA. 463; see no. 33 below. 

3 Not the first (comitis primt), as in the contemporary marginal de- 
scription in the Chartulary. The Trunch evidence is conclusive in proving 
that the charter was issued by the second earl. 

+ Mon. Ang., v, pp. 49-53. Those which are printed here in full or in 
oe ae only examples to illustrate some particular point; see also nos. 

= See Chapter V. 


78 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


both he and the grantor’s son William witnessed the present charter suggests 
the approximate date. 

The earliest of the second earl’s charters in the Chartulary appears 
to be one which he issued to God and St. Mary of Acre and the Apostles 
Peter and Paul and the monks of St. Pancras serving God there in Acre, 
confirming 2 carucates of land which his father and mother gave them, and 
recording his own gifts there ‘usque ad meum castellum in quo ecclesia 
fundata est’, with many confirmations of gifts by his tenants, including 
churches;! but there is no mention of the church of Trunch. The date is not 
later than 1119, for that is the latest date for the foundation of the priory on 
its new site during the time when Herbert was bishop of Norwich (1091- 
1119).2 For the original gifts made by the first earl of the church of Acre 
and 2 carucates there when he established monks from Lewes in his castle 
at Castle Acre, which were confirmed by his grandson the third earl, see 
p. 4 above. 


23. Gift by William [second] earl de Warenne, countess Isabel and 
their sons William and Ralph to Castle Acre priory of land and 


rents in Barmer and elsewhere in Norfolk. [c. 1130-1138] 
Castle Acre Chartulary, Harl. MS. 2110, f. 3. Pd. in Mon. Ang., 
eee 3 ba haber ® 


Notum sit omnibus qui sunt et qui futuri sunt quod ego W[illel- 
mus] comes de Warenna et Isabella comitissa uxor mea necnon filii 
nostri Willelmus scilicet et Radulfus . . . Hujus donationis testes sunt, 
Osbertus de Cailleio et W[illelmus] de Cricet[ot] et Henr[icus] de Ria 
et Rob[ertus] constitutor et Rob[ertus] de Frievill’ et Osmundus dis- 
pensator et Rad[ulfus] de Sancto Mart[ino] et Rad[ulfus] de Acra. 


24. Mandate by William de Warenne [second] earl of Surrey to 
Rainer de Grandcourt to permit the monks of Castle Acre to 
hold the land which Hugh de Pinkeny had given and William 
his son had confirmed, and also the 60 acres of land which the 
said William was giving to them for his sister’s marriage; also a 
mandate to Roger son of Wimer, the earl’s steward, to see that 
his order was carried out if Rainer should do injury to the 


monks in the matter. [c. 1130-1138] 
Castle Acre Chartulary, Harl. MS. 2110, f. 3. Pd. in Mon. Ang., 
wi5 lL SnoA4 


Willelmus de Warenna comes Sudregie R[{ainero] de Grandi- 
curte salutem. Precor te tibique precipio ut permittas tenere monachis 
de Achra terram quam Hugo de Pinchenni pro anima sua dedit eis et 
Willelmus filius ejus concessit; terram quoque illam quam isdem 
W[illelmus] dat eis pro maritanda sorore sua; nam ego plene concedo 
et in mea carta confirmo. Teste Rogero filio Wimeri. Tibi quoque 
Rogere qui meus dapifer es precipio ut si Rainerus eis injuriam inde 
fecerit tu cum honore monachis ipsam terram tenere facias mihique 

‘ Chartulary, f. 2; not pd. in Mon. Ang., where however there is another 


and later general confirmation of doubtful authenticity (p. 49, no. 2). 
2 Chartulary, f. 118%; Mon. Ang., p. 53, no. 21. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 79 


pro contemptu precepti mei justiciam facias. Quod Willelmus] dat 
cum sorore sua monachis est lx. acre terre. Valete. 


Rainer de Grandcourt gave to the priory his tithes and the church of 
Barsham and lands in Tattersett [Norfolk], and Hugh his man gave his tithe 
and 60 acres of land which Lewin held.1 The latter land, given by Hugh 
(de Pinkeny], and the land specified in the present charter, probably lay in 
Tattersett.2 Walter de Grandcourt, a Domesday tenant of William de 
Warenne in Norfolk and Cambridgeshire, is mentioned at no. 12 above. There 
is a pedigree derived from a case in 1259 showing the descendants for four 
generations from Hugh, Walter’s brother.3 Rainer is not mentioned, but he 
was presumably a member of the same family. The place of origin was 
Grandcourt, dept. Seine-Inférieure, arr. Neufchatel, cant. Londinicres. 

The earlier limit of date is suggested by the fact that Roger had succeeded 
his father Wimer as steward (see no. 22). 


25. Notification by William [second] earl de Warenne to Robert 
his steward that he had confirmed to Wymondham priory 
[Norfolk] the land which William d’Aubigny, the king’s butler, 
held of him in the manor of Wymondham. [1119-38] 


Pd. in Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1436-41, p. 391. 


W. comes de Warenna Roberto dapifero suo ceterisque suis 
hominibus Francis et Anglicis salutem. Sciatis me concessisse monachis 
de Wimundiham terram quam Willelmus de Albinn’ pincerna regis 
tenuit de me in ipso manerio de Wimundeham. Et hoc concedo eis et 
dono pro anima patris mei et matris et antecessorum meorum et pro 
salute mea et uxoris mee ac puerorum meorum ita libere ac quiete 
tenere sicut donum elemosine. Testibus, Goisfrido capellano et 
Geraldo. 


The tenant William d’Aubigny I, founder of the priory, died in 1139.‘ 
In the confirmation charter of king Henry I, 1123-33, there is a reference 
to the men whom he held of earl de Warenne in the manor of Wymondham.° 
The present charter was issued after the second earl’s® marriage in 1118, and 
the mention of his sons puts the date a little later. 

The name of Robert the steward seems to be otherwise unknown. Ina 
Norfolk charter of this period that of Wimer or his son Roger would be ex- 
pected.’ 


ee ee eee 


1 Mon. Ang., v, 50, no. 3. 

20K PF), ili; pp. 299, 389: 

3 Genealogist, xxi, 20. 

4 Mon. Ang., iii, 323; Complete Peerage, new ed., i, 233. 

35 Mon. Ang., iii, 331; similarly in a charter not later than 1135 of 
William d’Aubigny himself (zb7d.). 

6 Farrer in H.K.F., iii, 6 suggests the date 1140-48 (as a charter of the 
third earl); but this cannot be accepted. 

7 The name Robert is clearly written on the original roll; and it would, 
perhaps, be unjustifiable to suspect that it was a mistake in copying Roger 
from the original charter. 


80: HONOUR OF WARENNE 


26. Gift by William [second] earl de Warenne to the abbey of St. 
Evroul [dio. Lisieux] of freedom from all dues throughout all 
his land on their demesne supplies, which their men could 
declare to be their supplies. [1118-38] 

Cartulaire de la Basse-Normandie (P.R.O. Transcripts, 2nd Series, 
8, vol. 140B), vol. 1, p. 262, from the original, St. Evroul 
charters, no. 74. Abst in Cal. Docs. France, no. 634. 

Willelmus comes de Warenna omnibus baillivis et omnibus 
hominibus suis salutem. Sciatis me donavisse et concessisse monachis 
de Sancto Ebrulfo quietudinem de omnibus consuetudinibus per totam 
terram meam de dominio suo de mensa sua, sicut homines eorum affid- 
are potuerint quod de mensa eorum sit. Huic autem donationi et con-. 
cessioni interfuerunt I[sabella] comitissa et Jordanus de Blossevilla et 
Richoardus de Torcheio.! 


27. Gift by William [second] earl de Warenne and Elizabeth his 
wife to the abbey of St. Amand [Rouen] of 20s. yearly from the 
toll of Bellencombre. [1118-38] 

MS. Dodsworth cxlvii, f. 29d. 


Ego Willelmus comes Warenne et uxor mea Elizabeth donamus 
et concedimus sancto Amando ad luminare ecclesie pro redemptione 
animarum nostrarum xx. soledos unoquoque anno de theloneo Belen- 
combrie. S[{igna] Roberti filii Stephani et Radulfi fratris ejus et Eustachii 
dapiferi comitis; ex parte sancti Rainaldus fr[ater] abbatisse; s[igna] 
Willelmi comitis et comitisse Elizabeth. 


Elizabeth here appears as an alternative name for Isabel. The grantor 
had an inherited interest in Rouen, though not holding land there himself, 
in view of the land held in its immediate neighbourhood by his grandfather 
Rodulf de Warenne I; see p. 1 above. 


28. Confirmation by William [second] earl de Warenne to the 
priory of Longueville [dio. Rouen] of a tenant at Bourg-Dun 
[dept. Seine-Inférieure, arr. Dieppe, cant. Offranville] of the 
fee of Walter de Blosseville. At Bracquetuit [arr. Dieppe, cant. 
Totes], at the request of William de Trubleville who had given 
the tenant to the priory. [c. 1130-1138] 
Pd. in P. Le Cacheux, Chartes du Prieuré de Longueville, Soc. de 
lV Hist. de Normandie (1934), p. 11, no. ix, from the original 
with seal? in the archives of the Seine-Inférieure at Rouen ?. 
Abst. in Cal. Docs. France, no. 220, from D’Anisy’s transcript. 
Notum sit presentibus et futuris quod ego Willelmus comes de 
Garenna do et concedo Deo et sancte Marie et ecclesie sancte Fidis de 
Longavilla unum hospi[tem] apud Dunum de feodo Walteri de Brocevilla 
omnino solidum ac quietum de omnibus rebus que michi pertinent, 
scilicet de auxiliis de tallagiis de operationibus de consuetudinibus et 
1 Note that the seal was broken. 
2 Described in Demay, Inventaive des Sceaux de ta Normandie, p.7. no. 
40: round, equestrian; defaced and legend destroyed. 
3M. Le Cacheux assigns this charter to the fourth earl; but this cannot 
be accepted. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 81 


conctis omnino aliis servitiis. Et si ego accepero tallam vel auxilium 
aut quodlibet aliud de terra Walteri clamo eum quietum de tanto 
quantum pertinet terre illius supradicti hospitis. Hec concessio facta 
fuit ad Bracketuit requisitione et prece Willelmi de Trublevilla qui 
hospitem illum cum toto tenemento suo donavit ecclesie sancte Fidis. 
Teste Ysabel comitissa uxore comitis et Willelmo et Radulfo fillis 
eorum, qui hoc idem concesserunt, Willelmo de Criketot et Widone 
pincerna, Willelmo filio Gulberti, Geraldo capellano, Radulfo clerico de 
Roseto, Waltero presbitero de Braketoit, Waltero de Grinnosevilla, 
Willelmo de Malcobla, Thoma de Busli et Osberto coco et multis aliis. 


Bracquetuit, where the charter was issued, was in the group of places 
dependent on the castle of Bellencombre, the caput of the honour of the 
earls de Warenne in Normandy; and Bourg-Dun, with Blosseville close by, 
was in another group of Warenne lands to the north-west near the coast, 
separated from the former group by Giffard lands round Longueville.t It was 
at the latter place that Walter Giffard founded the Cluniac priory of Sainte- 
Foi in 1093.2 In king Henry II’s confirmation charter of Sept. 1155 there 
was included ‘Apud Dunum ex dono Willelmi filii Istanni et Radulfi filii sui 
de feodo comitis Warenne duos homines.’3 It is likely that William son of 
Istannus can be identified with William de Trubleville of the present charter; 
for in a charter of 1202 there is mention of an Istenus son of William son of 
Ralph de Trubleville.* 


29. Gifts by William de Warenne [second earl] and countess Isabel 
to the priory of Bellencombre [dio. Rouen] of land and rents in 
Normandy and England. 1135. 


Pd. in Mon. Ang., vi, 1113, ‘ex Coll. MS. cl. v. Andr. du Chesne.’ 


Ego Willielmus de Warenna et Ysabella comitissa uxor mea et 
filii nostri Willielmus scilicet et Radulphus damus etc. Deo et ecclesie 
Omnium Sanctorum Belencumbris et infirmis fratribus in ea Deo 
servientibus etc. culturas nostras de S. Martino etc. Et ego Ysabella 
comitissa do et concedo supradictis fratribus de hereditate et patri- 
monio meo de Wellebof c.s. Rothomagenses per annum concessu Waler- 
anni comitis Mellenti filii mei in presentia domini nostri Hugonis archie- 
piscopi Rothomagensis in dedicatione predicte ecclesie Omnium Sanct- 
orum cum eam dedicaret et consecraret. In Anglia de redditu burgi 
nostri de Lewes c.s. sterlingorum. Testibus, Stephano capellano, etc. 
Hec donatio ab incarn[atione] Domini M.cxxxv. facta et adomino nostro 
Henrico Anglorum rege in Normannia principante regali potestate 
statuta et confirmata, etc. 


Waleran count of Meulan was son of countess Isabel by her first husband 
Robert de Beaumont (p. 9 above). ‘Wellebof,’ where the countess held 
land of her own inheritance, has not been identified.° 


Be a 
fC Loyd in Y.As/., xxx, 110, 
2 Le Cacheux, op. cit., introd. p. xil. 
3 Delisle et Berger, Actes de Henri LE OO: 
+ Le Cacheux, op. cit., p. 99. Several members of the family occur in 
that volume. 
5 It is possibly Elbeuf-sur-Andelle, dept. Seine-Inférieure, arr. Rouen, 
cant. Darnetal; but no confirmatory evidence has been found. 


82 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


CHARTERS OF THE THIRD EARL 


The first series (nos. 30 to 34) includes two charters relating 
to lands in the honour of Conisborough and the manor of Wake- 
field, and confirmations to Lewes priory, two of which are originals 
and in two of which Yorkshire churches are specified. These are 
followed by eight charters to Lewes priory, six of which are 
originals, relating to lands in Sussex and Norfolk; and then by 
five others of various interests, concluding with an original letter 
from archbishop Theobald to countess Ala, the earl’s widow. 


All the documents fall within the extreme limits of 1138 
and the earl’s departure for the crusade in 1147. Some can be 
definitely assigned to the latter year (nos. 32 to 34); and it is 
probable that those in which the earl’s brother Reginald appears 
as a donor or in an administrative capacity belong to the latter 
part of the period, for he was the third son of his parents who 
did not marry before June 1118. 


30. Gift by William [third] earl de Warenne to the abbey of St. 
Mary, York, of Haines [in Hatfield] with the moor and marsh 
surrounding it and ‘Munkeflet’ with its fisheries ; also at the feast 
of the Assumption 3 good pike and 12 breams in Bradmere. 

[1138-47] 
Pd. in Mon. Ang., ili, 618, from the original in the Hatton library. 


MS. Dodsworth lxxvi, f. 121, being a stray folio of a chartulary 
of St. Mary’s, York.! 


Willelmus comes de Warenna” omnibus hominibus suis Franci- 
genis et Anglicis tam presentibus quam futuris. Notum sit vobis quod 
concessi et dedi pro salute anime mee et animarum omnium amicorum 
meorum abbatie sancte Marie Ebor[acensis] et monachis ibidem Deo 
servientibus Henes cum mora et marais que circa sunt Henes ad 
faciendum inde commodum suum tam in mora quam in terra lucrabili 
et marais, et Munkeflet’ cum omnibus piscariis suis; et insuper ad 
Assumptionem sancte Marie tres lupos in Brademars bonos et duodecim 
breisnas. Et prohibeo ex parte Dei omnipotentis ne aliquis posterorum 
meorum hanc elemosinam meam minuere vel auferre presumat. Testi- 
bus, Roberto de Wesneual,? Baldewino de Magnauill’, Roberto de 
Freuill’, Willelmo filio Radulfi, Aluredo clerico. 


Among the gifts to St. Mary’s confirmed by king Henry II, 1156-57 was 
‘Willelmus de Warenna insulam de Henes et piscarias ejus’;+ and Farrer notes 
that Henes was on the old river Don, in Thorne, between Crowle and East- 
oft.5 A cell was established there and administered with Sandtoft; a list of 


1 The ends of the lines are torn off. In certain trivial details the text 
in MS. Dodsworth has been followed. 

2 Warrenn’, Dodsw. 

3 This seems a correct emendation (cf. nos. 18, 32-3, 36); it is Wefreual’, 
Dodsw., and Wefrenal, M.A. For the name Esneval see p. 2 above; and cf. 
Rodulf de Wesneval in the note to charter no. 1. 

4 EY Ci. iy NOs soz pee. 

> Ibid., citing Selby Chartulary, i, pp. 374, 399. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 83 


several ‘custodes’ or priors of Sandtoft and Henes is recorded.’ Haines occurs 
among the names of marshlands within the manor of Hatfield in the seven- 
teenth century.” 


31. Notification by William [third] earl de Warenne to William son 
of Raven, his sheriff of Wakefield, and to others, that he had 
confirmed to the church of Woodkirk and the canons [of Nostell] 
serving God there the site of the church and a grove between 
two streams, and the lands and mills which they had held in the 
time of his father and whatever his father had given. Also a 
grant of 20s. yearly from his rent of [West] Ardsley. [1138-47] 


Pd. in Mon. Ang., vi, 99, ‘ex analectis Johannis Hanson de Wood- 
house in Com. Ebor.’ 


Willelmus comes de Warenna Willelmo filio Raven vicecomiti 
suo et omnibus vicecomitibus futuris de Wachefeld et Roberto filio 
Elie et Ranaldo filio Britonis et omnibus baronibus et fidelibus et amicis 
suis et ministris Francis et Anglis salutem et amicitiam. Sciatis me 
concessisse in elemosinam Deo et ecclesie sancte Marie de Wode- 
churche et canonicis ibidem Deo servientibus, pro salute anime mee 
et uxoris mee et pro animabus patris et matris mee et antecessorum et 
successorum meorum, sicut ipsi ante me concesserunt, totam terram in 
qua prefata ecclesia sita est et totum nemus inter duos rivulos qui 
currunt per pontem Selde et pontem Ligulfi. Et preterea concessi eidem 
ecclesie in perpetuum quolibet anno viginiti solidos de redditu meo de 
Erdeslaw. Et volo et precipio quod ipsi canonici teneant in mea firma 
pace nemus suum et terras suas et molendina sua et omnia que tenuerunt 
in tempore patris mei de feodo suo et meo quecumque eis dedit. Et 
prohibeo ne denarium de redditu meo de Erdislaw exportetur ante- 
quam elemosina mea compleatur sed ponatur super altare sancte Marie 
die Assumptionis ejus. Et precor omnes amicos meos et precipio 
omnibus ministris meis quatenus sicut me diligunt meam teneant ele- 
mosinam et canonicos meos sicut meum dominicum contra omnes 
qui eis adversari voluerint, et prohibeo omnibus meis hominibus ne 
aliquis disturbet nec conturbet ecclesiam sancte Marie nec elemosinas 
que concesse sunt eidem ecclesie de feodo meo super decem libras 
forisfacture. Vale. 


Among the gifts confirmed to Nostell priory by king Henry I, 1121-27, 
was the church of Woodkirk given by William earl de Warenne and Ralph 
de Insula and William his son, by the hand of archbishop Thurstan.*? The 
donor was therefore the second earl; and the grantor of the present charter, 
confirming his father’s gifts, was therefore the third earl. A cell at Woodkirk 


1 Chron. of St. Mary’s, York, Surtees Soc., p. 80. For the ‘custos’ of 
Sandtoft see no. 71 below. 

2 Hunter, South Yorkshire, i, 161; cf. also the reference to the tenants of 
Hatfield entering common between Haynes and Eastoft in 1558 (Tomlinson, 
Hatfield Chace, p. 292). For Bradmere or Brathmere see Hunter, pp. 186-7; 
and charter no. 95 below. 

3 E.Y.C., iii, no. 1428. 


84 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


was established by the canons of Nostell.! A section relating to West Ardsley, © 
soke of the manor of Wakefield, is given in Chapter IV, where it is suggested 
that Robert son of Elias and Rainald son of Brito were tenants of the earl 
there. Notes on William son of Raven and his descendants are given in 
the introduction to the Neufmarché fees in Chapter III. 


32. Confirmation by William [third] earl de Warenne to Lewes 
priory of all its lands of his fee, undertaking to acquit it of 
danegeld and all other services due to the king; and gift of tithe 
of corn, etc., from all his demesne lands and a full tenth penny 
of all his rents in England. He issued the charter when he caused 
the priory church to be dedicated and endowed it with the tenth 
penny of his rents, giving it seisin thereof by hair from his own 
head and that of Ralph de Warenne his brother, cut with a knife 
by Henry, bishop of Winchester, before the altar. [1147] 

PLATE X 
Original charter, Cotton Ch. xi. 56; British Museum Facsimiles, 


no. 25; and Mon. Ang., v, 14. Lewes Chartulary, f. 16V 
(inflated); 2 translation in S.R.S., i, 24. 


Sciant presentes et futuri . quod ego Willelmus comes de Warenna 
dono et concedo Deo et sancto Pancratio . et monachis ibidem Deo 
seruientibus in libera elemosina omnes terras et omnia tenementa 
sua que habent de feodo meo . cuiuscunque donationis sint . absoluta 
et quieta ab omnibus donis et auxiliis . et ab omnibus consuetudinibus 
et a seruitiis. Dono quidem eis . quicquid in illis haberem si mihi 
retinuissem ea. Ego autem de meo proprio adquietabo illa erga regem 
de danegeld et de omnibus aliis seruitiis . que ad regem pertinent. Dono 
etiam illis de omnibus dominiis meis plenariam decimam . uidelicet de 
blado . de feno . de agnis . de uelleribus . de caseis . et plenariam decimam 
denariorum de omnibus redditibus meis de Anglia. Quamuis autem ex 
illis denariis in procuratione mea siue aliorum quorumlibet expendatur . 
ex illis tamen plenaria supradictis monachis reddatur decima. Et si 
dominium meum aut redditus mei creuerint . eotenus crescat et decima 
monachorum. Hec supradicta ego pro salute anime mee . et pro 
animabus antecessorum meorum predictis monachis concessi . et hac 
mea presenti carta confirmaui . quando feci dedicare ecclesiam sancti 
Pancratii . et de decima denariorum de omnibus redditibus meis de 
Anglia dotaui ipsam ecclesiam . et inde saisiui eam per capillos capitis 
mei et fratris mei Rad[ulfi] de Warenna . quos abscidit cum cultello de 
capitibus nostris ante altare Henricus episcopus Wintoniensis. Teste 
Teobaldo archiepiscopo Cantuar[iensi] Henrico episcopo Wint[onien- 
si] . Rodberto episcopo Bad[oniensi] . Ascelino episcopo Rouecestr- 
[iensi] . qui eandem ecclesiam dedicauerunt . et test[ibus] Edwardo 
abbate Rading[ensi] . Walt[ero] abbate de Bello . Walt[ero] priore 
Cant[uariensi] . Walt[ero] archidiac[ono] Cant[uariensi] . Ricardo] 
decano Cicestr[iensi] . Rodberto archid[iacono] . Johanne de Pagaham 
. Willelmo comite Cicestr[ie] . Rad[ulfo] de War[enna] . Reg[inaldo] 


2°) Gly Yorks., ii, 2o2: 
2 Numbered = 


PLATE X 


we 


ci gue atl dt a 


y ee Spe ee 
bah 


ee ~ ‘ 


, ian ‘gust mi 


No. 32 Size 84 by 84 in 


§ i: wen ar : 
12 aa 
sg 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 85 


de War[enna] . Hug[one] de Petrep[onte] . Rad[ulfo] de Pleiz . Rod- 
b[erto] de Wesneual . Rodb[erto] de Frieuill’ . Rodb[erto] de Petrep- 
[onte] . Willelmo de Petrep[onte] . Adam de Puninges . Gwid[one] 
de M[en]cecurt . Willelmo filio suo . Willelmo de Droseio. 


Endorsed : V. A. iij; and (in an early hand). . . et danegeldo. 


All the lay witnesses, beginning with William earl of Chichester, wit- 
nessed another charter of William the third earl to Lewes priory (no. 33), 
which can be dated 1147; and it seems clear that the two charters were issued 
on the same occasion. 

The copy in the Lewes chartulary has been inflated by the addition 
after the names of the bishops of a maledictory and other clauses;* the names 
of the other witnesses are omitted. 


33. Confirmation by William [third] earl de Warenne to Lewes 
priory of all its lands, churches and tithes of his fee (specified 
in detail), including in Yorkshire the church of Conisborough 
with its other churches, chapels, lands, and tithes, and the 
churches of Wakefield and Dewsbury. [1147] 


Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed AA.463. Lewes Chartulary, 
f. 15V (without witnesses) ?; translation in S.R.S., i, 20.3 


Ego Willelmus comes de War[enna] dono et hac mea carta con- 
firmo Deo et monachis sancti Pancratii de Lewis pro salute anime mee 
et Willelmi patris mei et omnium parentum nostrorum . omnes terras . 
ecclesias . decimas . et omnia tenementa que ipsi monachi habent de 
feudo meo . cuiuscunque donationis sint . libera . quieta . et absoluta 
de omnibus rebus. . . [Jn Eboracen]si* sira ecclesiam de Cuningesburc . 
cum aliis ecclesiis et capellis et terris et decimis . et aliis app[endiciis] 
suis . ecclesiam de Wachefelda . et ecclesiam de Dewesberi . cum 
earum app[endiciis] . . . Hec supradicta ego pro salute anime mee et 
pro animabus antecessorum meorum predictis monachis concessi et 
hac mea presenti carta confirmaui libera . quieta . et absoluta* ab omni- 
bus donis . et auxiliis . et ab omnibus consuetudinibus et querelis . et 
ab omnibus seruiciis . et insuper adquietabo illa erga regem de danegelt . 
et de omnibus aliis seruiciis que ad regem pertinent. Test[ibus] Willel- 
mo comite Cicestrie . Rad[ulfo] de War[enna] . Ra[inaldo de]* War- 
[enna] . Hug[one] de Petroponte . Rad[ulfo] de Pleiz . Rodberto de 
Wosneual . Rodberto de Freieuilla . Rodberto de Petroponte . Willelmo 


1 There is also the insertion of a grant of 100s. in the borough of Lewes, 
which does not occur in the original. 

2 Numbered ij/A. Wrongly assigned in the heading to the second earl, 
perhaps as a result of the endorsement. There is another document in the 
Chartulary, f. 18V, assigned to the third earl, which repeats almost all the 
contents of the present charter, and includes the same unauthorized addition 
as is made to the genuine Cotton Ch. xi, 56 (note to no. 32 above). In that 
document the churches of Wakefield and Dewsbury are omitted. The 
number is i 

B 


3 The assignment to the second earl c. 1095 is amended, and the date 
given as 1147, in S.R.S., ii, p. xxiil. 
* Original torn; in italics from the Chartulary text. 


86 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


de Petroponte . Adam de Puninges . Widone de Mencecurt . Willelmo 
de Mencecurt . Willelmo de Droseio. 


Slit for tag. 
Endorsed: V. A.ii; and (among other endorsements) Willelmi 
secundi comitts. 


Among the Sussex possessions confirmed was half the land in Brighton 
(Brittelmeston’) which had belonged to. John de Chesney (Kaysneto). John 
de Chesney issued a charter giving to the priory half the land which his 
father Ralph held in Brighton at his death;! and by an agreement dated 
25 April 1147 he added to this gift the other moiety for a term of seven years.? 
Of the twelve witnesses to the agreement nine are included in the longer 
list of witnesses to his charter, which was evidently issued on the same 
occasion. Moreover eight of the witnesses to the earl’s confirmation occur 
among those witnessing John’s charter or agreement. The confirmation was 
therefore issued on or shortly after 25 April 1147, certainly before the earl 
started for the crusade later in that year. 


34. Confirmation by William [third] earl de Warenne to Lewes 
priory of the church of Conisborough with the churches, chapels, 
lands and tithes belonging thereto, namely the churches of 
Braithwell, Dinnington, Harthill, Fishlake, Hatfield with the 
chapel of Thorne, and Kirk Sandal with the chapel of Arm- 
thorpe; also the churches of Wakefield with the chapel of 
Horbury, Halifax, Dewsbury with the chapel of Hartshead, 
Kirkburton, and Sandal Magna. [1147] 

Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 18 (without wit- 
nesses);* f. 38Y (with witnesses) *; f. 42 (with witnesses). 5 
Also Register of archbishop Corbridge, f. 32V (with witnesses). ® 
Pd. in Watson, Halifax, p. 330; Watson, Memoirs, i, 91; Hunter, 
South Yorkshire, i, 106; and Mon. Ang., v, 13 (in part); trans- 
lation in Lewes Chartulary, S.R.S., i, 28; abst. in Reg. Cor- 
bridge, Surtees Soc., i, 45; and Y.A.J., xxxi, 293. 

Sciant’ presentes et futuri quod ego Willelmus comes de Warenna 
dono concedo et hac presenti carta mea confirmo Deo et sancto Pan- 
cratio et monachis de Lewes ibidem Deo servientibus, pro salute 
anime mee et Willelmi patris mei et omnium successorum meorum, 
ecclesiam de Cuningeburgh’ cum ecclesiis capellis terris et decimis et 
omnibus ad eas pertinentibus, scilicet ecclesiam de Bradwelle cum 


* Anc. Deed A. 15531; Lewes Chartulary, f. 119 (S.R.S., ii, 46). 

* Anc. Deed A. 15532; Lewes Chartulary, f. 119 (S.R.S., ii, 47). Fac- 
similes of these two documents are given in plates V (a) and IV (b) of Johnson 
and Jenkinson, English Court Hand, part ii. 


3 Numbered 2 


* In the confirmation by John de Warenne, earl of Surrey, in 1331, 
where it is wrongly assigned to the second earl. 

> In the confirmation by Thomas duke of Norfolk in 1397. 

° In his confirmation of 1301. 

7 From the text in Lewes Chartulary, f. 18; the witnesses being added 
from the 1331 confirmation. The text in Reg. Corbridge is practically 
identical, but there are some variations in the spelling of names, e.g., Con- 
ingburgh, Donigthon, 


ia 
en. 
; Lee 
A. es wv : 
2 . A 
ay on ean 
et Narr 


cate R 
’ a: 


male 
1 Lo 


— = 


PLATE XI 


“ur §£ Aq $9 ez1g 7 : eas els 


i: ae iy 9 


os TRAE 99 auctal SOHN 


Hoov Ge ae 
es ash pe oa mV ee 
qe» 2. : » are 2 Sages 


| : 1 Ne 
“any dpm anbslea * jos Srgbiy gue 
Nw pad” ay beg lage oe Pa fo bol says as 
: | 0 | , 
Ap hy OILY mali 109 ~A, 


.’* “a 


eS m 


y 
Ki) 
% 
¥ - 

"i =e mf 
ot Sans 2 Nf ie ! 
ai Se a > 

see 
et rs 


“OMA x Hvury: ‘ aa 


* 


oo 
+. 
‘ 

. 


- 


é 
‘4 XK. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 87 


pertinenciis, ecclesiam de Donington’ cum pertinenciis, ecclesiam de 
Hertille cum pertinenciis, ecclesiam de Fislac cum pertinenciis, ecclesiam 
de Hetfeld cum capella de Torne et omnibus pertinenciis, ecclesiam 
de Parua Sandale cum capella de Hernoldestorp’ cum omnibus per- 
tinenciis, ecclesiam eciam de Wakefeld cum capella de Horbir’ et 
omnibus pertinenciis suis, ecclesiam de Halifax cum omnibus pertin- 
enciis suis, ecclesiam de Dewesbiri cum capella de Hertesheued et 
omnibus pertinenciis suis, ecclesiam de Burton’ cum pertinenciis suis, 
ecclesiam de Maiori Sandale cum omnibus pertinenciis suis. Et si 
forte terre in quibus site sunt! predicte ecclesie in alterius alicujus 
dominium quam in meum sive per homagium et servicium sive per 
maritagium sive alio quocumque modo devenerint, volo nihilominus 
et precipio ut predicte ecclesie et omnes alie quas habent de feodo meo 
predicti monachi ad sustentacionem eorum libere et quiete semper 
remaneant, ita ut nullus omnino hominum in eisdem ecclesiis aliquod 
jus advocacionis sive presentacionis sibi possit vendicare preter ipsos 
monachos meos, quibus totum jus quod unquam? habui vel habere 
potui in eisdem ecclesiis dedi et concessi, nullo mihi vel heredibus meis 
in eisdem ecclesiis jure retento. Hiis testibus, Rad[ulfo] de War[enna], 
Hug[one] de Petraponte, Radulfo de Plaix, Roberto de Friuile, Reg- 
[inaldo] de Warenn[a], Adam de Poning’, Guyd[one] de Mencecourt, 
Willelmo de Droseio, et multis aliis. 


From the names of the witnesses it is clear that this charter was issued 
on the same occasion as the preceding one. 


35. Confirmation by William [third] earl de Warenne of the gift 
of Ordric de Barcombe with all his holding which countess 
Isabel, his mother, made to Lewes priory for buying a lamp 
for the burial-place of William his father. [1138 or shortly after] 

PLATE XI 
Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15627. 


Notum sit presentibus et futuris quod ego Willelmus comes de 
Waren[na] concedo . dono . et hac mea presenti carta confirmo dona- 
tionem quam Isabel comitissa mater mea donauit Deo et sancto Pan- 
cratio in libera elemosina . ad emendam lucernam sepure? patris mei 
Willelmi . scilicet Ordricum de Berecampa cum tota ten. a* sua. [Et] 
precipio omnibus heredibus meis et baronibus meis per fidem quam 
mihi debent . ut hec donatio . libere . quiete . secure . et indissolu- 
biliter ecclesie inperpetuum teneatur ab eis . sicut amant salutem anime 
mee. Test[ibus] . Roglero] capell[ano] . Willelmo de Petraponte . 
Milone de Baelon’ . Rad[ulfo] de Baill[ol] . Willelmo de Mengecurth’ . 
Henr[ico] de Bys.® Drogone de Friewilla. 


Endorsed : W. comit{is] de x. sol’ in molendino de Puchepole.® 


* sint, MS. 

2 nunquam, MS. 

3 Query for sep[ultjure. 

* Damaged; perhaps teneura or tentura. 

5 Almost certainly the reading; a piece of thread superimposed makes 
the photograph suggest Hys. 

6 Sic.; apparently in error. 


88 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


It can be presumed that the gift was made shortly after the second 
earl’s death on 11 May 1138. 


36. Confirmation by William [third] earl de Warenne to Lewes 
priory of the gifts made by Adam [de Poynings] and Beatrice 
his wife and Adam their son, namely the churches of Poynings 
and Pangdean [Sussex] and tithes there, 12 solidates of land at 
‘Cumsiechtre’ [in Balcombe, Sussex] and 4 solidates of land at 
Dencombe [in Slaugham, Sussex] and 5 messuages in Lewes. 
Also gift of his service, quitclaiming Adam and his heirs there- 
from. [1138-47] 

Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 14201. Lewes Chartulary, 


f. 19Y (without witnesses)! and f.. 124VY (with witnesses); ? 
translations in S.R.S., i, 30 and ii, 61. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Willelmus comes de Warenna 
-concedo et confirmo in libera elemosina donationes quas dederunt Deo 
et sancto Pancratio et monachis Adam et Beatrix uxor eius et Adam 
filius eorum . scilicet ecclesias de Puninges et de Pingedena . et plenarie 
decimas omnium rerum . et de Puninges et de Pingedena . insuper 
.xx. solidatas terre . scilicet .xij. solidatas terre ad Cumsiechtre . quas 
Sigar palmarius et Sinodus tenent . et .iiij. solidatas ad Denechecumbe 
quas Brictwi Serapere tenet . et in burgo de Lewis .v. mansuras cum 
ipsis hominibus qui supradictas terras tenent . liberas et quietas ab 
omnibus consuetudinibus et seruitiis et exactionibus et nominatim a 
scutagio. Dono etiam illis seruitium quod ad me pertinet . et Adam et 
heredes eius inde clamo quietos. Teste Rogerio capellano . Rodberto 
de Wesneual . Johanne de Chaineto . Ric[ardo] de Moreuill’ . Willelmo 


de Petreponte. 
Slit and stump of tag. 
Endorsed : VI. C.v; (also several descriptive words of varying dates). 


An account of the Poynings family, tenants of the honour of Warenne 
in Sussex, Norfolk and Suffolk, is given by Farrer in Honors and Knights’ 
Fees, iii, pp. 327 et seq.; and more recently in Complete Peerage, new ed., vol. 
x, pp. 656 et seq., where the present charter is noticed and it is shown that 
Adam de Poynings I died before the third earl left England in 1147. His 
son, the younger Adam, confirmed to the priory at a date not earlier than 
1164 all the land mentioned here, but not the churches; among the witnesses 
being earl Hamelin and the grantor’s sister Aubreye de Chesney (de Quer- 
ceto);3 and at the same period he gave, for the soul of Beatrice his mother, tithe 
of his cheeses in Poynings and Pangdean.‘ He appears to have been living in 
1198, and died before Michaelmas 1202.° 

In an original charter, c. 1250, witnessed by members of the Poynings 
family, land called ‘Cumcistra in Balecumbe’ is mentioned.° 

1 Numbered 2 2 Numbered and Riespicje " 
3 Anc. Deed A. 15538; Lewes Chartulary, f. 124 (S.R.S., ii, 60). 
4 Chartulary, f. 310 (S.R.S., ii, 125); both earl Hamelin and countess 


Isabel witnessed. 
5 Complete Peerage, x, 657. 
6 Anc. Deed A. 15539; Lewes Chartulary, f. 124V (S.R.S., ii, 61). 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 89 


37. Grant by William [third] earl de Warenne to Lewes priory 
that the monks could take venison outside the parks and within 
for the use of their sick. [1138-47] 
Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 16¥.1 Pd. in Mon. 
Ang., v, 14; translation in S.R.S., 1, sian 

Willelmus comes de Warenna salutem. Scias quod concedo mon- 
achis de sancto Pancracio quod accipiant extra parcas et infra de veney- 
soun ad opus infirmorum monachorum. quociens contigerit ipsos mon- 
achos infirmari. Testibus, Rog[ero] capellano, Hugon[e] de Petrop- 

[onte], Willelmo de Petrop[onte], etc. 


38. Grant by William [third] earl de Warenne to the infirmarer 
of Lewes priory of licence to fish in all his fisheries and waters 
of Lewes for the use of their sick, an official of the earl being 
present. [1138-47] 

Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 16V.2. Pd. in Mon. 
Ang., v, 14; translation in S.R.S., 1, 23. 

Willelmus comes de Warenna omnibus baronibus suis et ministris 
suis et ballivis suis de pertinencia Lewensi tam presentibus quam futuris 
salutem. Sciatis quod ego dono infirmario monachorum sancti Pan- 
cratii de Lewes quicumque infirmarius fuerit licenciam piscandi in 
omnibus piscaturis meis et aquis de Lewes ad opus infirmorum quando 
voluerit et ubi voluerit de ministris comitis ibi uno presente. Testibus, 
Rogero capellano, Johanne de Kaysneto, Radulfo de Plaiz, Willelmo 
de Droseyo.’ 


39. Confirmation by William [third] earl de Warenne of the gift 
made by Reginald de Warenne to Lewes priory of a messuage 
in the borough [of Lewes] and ‘Pilecerestrete’ which adjoined. 

[1138-47] 

Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15411. Lewes Chartulary, 

f. 22V (without witnesses); 4 translation in S.R.S., i, 39. 

Sciant presentes et futuri . quod ego . Willelmus comes de 

War[enna] concedo et hac mea presenti carta confirmo . donationem 

quam Rainaldus de War[enna] fecit Deo et sancto Pancratio . et monachis 

eiusdem loci . liberam et quietam ab omnibus rebus et consuetudinibus . 

sicut alia eorum terra que est in burgo. Hec est donatio . scilicet una 

mansura terre in burgo . que fuit Gilleberti filii Reinerii . et Pilecerestrete 

que iuxta est. Test[ibus] . Rog[ero] capell[ano] . Hug[one] de Petro- 

pont[e] . Rad[ulfo] de Wiburuill’ . Will[elmo] de Petropont[e] . et 
Rad[ulfo] de Pleiz. 


Slit for tag. 
Endorsed : D.xiiij. VI. 


viij 
1 Numbered A The heading to this folio has ‘Carte Willelmi 
secundi comitis Waren{nie]’, but all three charters on it (this one and nos. 
38, 32) were issued by the third earl. 


1x 4 
* Numbered 5 3 Broseyo, M.A., in error. 
+ Numbered > 


90 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Reginald de Warenne’s charter, the original of which has been preserved,! 

is as follows : 
Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Rainaldus de War([enna] 
dono in libera elemosina Deo et monachis de sancto Pancratio unam 
masuram in burgo . que fuit Gilleberti filii Reinerii et Pilecherestrete 

que iuxta est . et sic liberam et quietam sicut alia terra monacorum . 

que in burgo est. Test[ibus] Rog{ero] capell[ano] . Hugfone] de 

Petropo{nte] . Rad[ulfo] de Wiburcuill’ . Willelmo de Petrop{onte] . 

Rad[ulfo] de Pleiz. 

As Reginald was the third son of the second earl he could scarcely have 
been of sufficient age to make gifts to the priory before c. 1142; and it is 
probable, therefore, that this confirmation and the next were issued in the 
second half of the period assigned. ; 


40. Confirmation by William [third] earl de Warenne of the gifts 
made by Reginald his brother to Lewes priory of the mill of 
Attlebridge [Norfolk], and of a sokeman named Turold de 
Scottow, rendering half a mark of silver. [1138-47] 


Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15410. 2 Lewes Chartulary, 
f. 20; translation in S.R.S., i, 32.3 


Notum sit tam presentibus quam futuris . quod ego Willelmus 
comes de War[enna] . confirmo et concedo donationem molendini de 
Attelesbregge quod Rainaldus frater meus dedit Deo et sancto Pan- 
cratio et donationem unius sochemanni nomine Turoldi de Scotehou 
qui reddit dimidiam marcam argenti . pro salute anime sue et omnium 
parentum suorum et uolo et precipio . ut hoc donum monachi de sancto 
Pancratio bene et libere et quiete teneant et possideant in liberam et 
quietam elemosinam sicut Rainaldus frater meus eis reliquit et per 
suam cartam eis confirmauit. 


Slit for tag. 
Endorsed : VI. 


Reginald’s charter, which is entered in the Chartulary (f. 34; S.R.S., 
i, 65) is as follows : 

Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Rainald[{us} de Warenna dono 
et concedo in liberam et quietam elemosinam Deo et sancto Pancratio 
molendinum de Atelesbrige quod pertinet ad Caustonam, et hoc 
molendinum reddit per annum xxxiiij. solidos, et unum sokemannum 
in Scotehou nomine Aroldi‘ qui reddit dimidiam marcam argenti; et hoc 
facio pro salute anime mee et patris mei et omnium parentum meorum. 
Hiis testibus, Ric[ardo] de Clipst{ona], Willelmo fratre meo, Gilleb/ferto] 
de Whitsand, Willelmo de Aisse. 


' Anc, Deed A. 15520; in a different hand to the confirmation, but 
evidently issued on the same occasion. It has the endorsement: R sur- 
mounted by xviij, which corresponds to the number in the Chartulary copy 
(fA DO3 AS iti gaia) 

* The left side is torn away; the missing portion has been taken from 
the Chartulary text. There were no names of witnesses. 


3 Numbered 3 
* Sic, for Turoldi. 


s 


a 
eh 

= ‘ 

ne 
‘an 


PLATE XII 


“ur gf Aq g azig 1b on 


Re Mg ' 
La pe . 


nm Y anpey: v AYO, 29 ouvey| vii. Was 2p ote eee Raney 
(eae. ¢r_a2nps nb - ganja wavy ven 82th ai Lee PEE FF 
eye 2 “VIpAyaayTy ap urvypn - WG an SSi 219 uit 9 3) eH 20 fap zu 
QjrpWw> Iman +e aap semen): OVP 032044 af faa puav phpay HIN “9-29 Ht ove 
berhs [4 Reaate. puivuep: W1 aa feaveng9) XM, 4 io warns & run eSuyjal adorei} 


ae ay pies %. 31 -aurruaa o paced of &e & a a ib 03 aes 02 apts an aie 
v 


ss ang! 


3) Sou freu, us do ran Por) ea see 3 ois mogpooaw Go Arua mane penrpey o123uV 
Spred road LD Jupp Ste} do SP. otiop Jouie bh aaa la PAB of gyn % gave ay nao} 


Be Le Se ae ern see OUD Sig Pe eT é BE asbah fa°4 


las 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 91 


Clipstone [Norfolk], from which the first witness took his name, had been 
held by William de Warenne I in 1086; and the fact that it was held by the 
Bardolf family! is good evidence that it had been held by Rainald or Reginald 
de Warenne of Wormegay, their ancestor?. This in turn is good evidence that 
the Rainald de Warenne of this charter was Reginald (of Wormegay), 
brother of the third earl; and that therefore it was the third earl who issued 
the confirmation, although the handwriting of the original charter might at 
first sight suggest the second earl. The description of the earl as “William my 
brother’ is unusual. In the third earl’s general confirmation charter issued 
in 1147 (no. 33) there is the clause: In Cauestona molendinum de Attelesbregge 
et ad Scutehou terram unius sochemanni nomine Turoldi. 

Attlebridge lies 44 miles south of Cawston. In 1086 William de Warenne 
had a small interest in Cawston, though little seems to be known of its history.’ 
In 1274-75 the mill at Attlebridge was said to belong to the manor of Cawston, 
and was then in the king’s hand.* 


Al. Gift by William de Warenne [third] earl to Lewes priory of 
land in Wood Rising, Santon, Letton, Southburgh and Hock- 
wold; [and confirmation] of 5 churches, namely, Gimingham, 
Feltwell, Wilton, St. Helen [Thetford], and a church in Thet- 
ford belonging to Methwold [all in Norfolk]. [1138-47] 

PLATE XII 


Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 13996. Lewes Chartulary, 
{. 20 (without witnesses), and f. 34 (with witnesses); ° trans- 
lation. in.S.R.S., 1, pp,iol,.64. 


Notum sit presentibus et futuris quod ego Will[elmus] de Warenna 
comes dono Deo et sanctis apostolis eius Petro et Paulo et sancto Pan- 
cratio pro salute anime mee et antecessorum meorum . patris mei scilicet 
Willelmi et matris mee scilicet . Isabelle? . quicquid de me tenent 
Iofridus capellanus meus et Paganus frater eius atque Beralddus 
sacerdos frater ipsorum . eo pacto quod ipsi de Deo et sancto Pan- 
cratio teneant sicut de me tenebant . uidelicet Resingas unam beruitam . 
et in Santona . xx. solidatas terre . iiij. denariis minus; in Letona et in 
Berc . xviij. solidatas terre; in Hoccowella . vij. solidatas terre . id est 
Alurici Carlessone terra; Item .v. ecclesias . scilicet ecclesiam de 
Guemiggueham . ecclesiam de Faltewella . ecclesiam de Wiltona . 
ecclesiam sancte Helene . et unam ecclesiam in Tedford . que pertinet 
ad Melewoldam. Testibus Rog[ero] capell{ano] . Raginaldo de Warenna. 
Jordano de Blosseuilla . Radulfo de Bailol. . 


Tag and portion of brocade bag. 
Endorsed : VI. C.ix. 


1 H.K.F., iii, pp. 325-6. 

2 See p. 35 above. 

3 Blomefield and Parkin, Norfolk, iii (ed. 1769), p. 537. 
4 Ibid., v (ed. 1775), p. 1333. 


5 Numbered = 


6 The copy on f. 34 is a better text. 
In paler ink in a space left blank for it. 


~) 


92 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


This does not record the initial gift of the Norfolk churches, for the 
churches of Gimingham, Wilton, St. Helen, and half that of Feltwell were 
included in the confirmation charter issued by Ralph, archbishop of Canter- 
bury, in 1121.1 

The clause in which Isabel, the earl’s mother, is mentioned suggests 
that she was dead. 


42. Confirmation by William [third] earl de Warenne to Lewes 
priory of the gift made by Robert de Freville the younger for 
his obit of 20 solidates of land at Massingham [Norfolk] ; and if 
he could not warrant that land to Robert’s heir the monks should 
have an equivalent from Robert’s fee. [1138-47] 

Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 2998; abst. in Cat. Anc. 


Deeds, ii, 144. Lewes Chartulary, f. 20Y (without witnesses); ” 
translation in S.R.S., i, 33. 


Sciant presentes et futuri [quod ego]® Willelmus comes de War- 
[enna] [conce]do® et hac mea presenti carta confirmo donationem 
quam fecit Rodb[ertus] junior de Frieuill’ ad obitum suum pro anima 
sua Deo et sancto Pancratio et monachis eiusdem loci in libera ele- 
mosina . scilicet .xx!. solidatas terre apud Massingaham . et si non 
possim warantire heredi Rodberti terram de Massingaham . uolo et 
precipio ut monachi habeant in escambio alias .xxt!. sol[idatas] terre de 
feudo predicti Rodberti. Rog[ero] . . .4 Rain[aldo] de Waren[na] 
Rad[ulfo] de Wiburcuill’? . Bald[ewino] de Frieuill’ . Willelmo de 
Sartill[eio]. 

Sht for tag. 

Endorsed: VI and (in an early hand): de xx. solidatis terre in 
Masingaham ; also on an attached piece of parchment : C.xv 


43. Writ of William [third] earl de Warenne to Robert de Freville 
and all his barons of Norfolk in favour of Castle Acre priory, 
directing that the monks should hold their tenure in Massingham 
[Norfolk] as they held it on the day when he gave the vill to 
Robert de Freville the younger. [c. 1142-1147] 


Castle Acre Chartulary, Harl. MS. 2110, f. 5. 


Will[elmus] comes de Warr[enna] Rob[erto] de Frieuill’ et omnibus 
baronibus suis de Norfolch’ salutem. Sciatis quod ego volo et precipio 
ut omnes res sancte Marie de Acra sint in bona pace et quiete et mon- 
achi ita teneant libere et absolute quicquid habent in Massingeham 
sicut tenuerunt die qua dedi villam eandem Robferto] juveni de Frieuill’. 
Quod si aliquis fecerit monachis injuriam sive inquietationem Rain- 
[aldus] de Warr[enna] faciat eis justiciam ne audiam inde clamorem. 


1 Ancient Charters, no. 8 (no. 10 above). 
2 Numbered «Vv 
Cc 


3 Original torn. 
* The word ends with 9’: and it is possibly cap[ellano|, the witness 
being Roger the chaplain of other charters, : 0 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 93 


Volo etiam ut cujuscunque feudi sit tenura libera sit et absoluta sicut 
mea propria elemosina. T[estibus], Jord[ano] de Blosseuill’, Johanne 
de Puning’, Rad[ulfo] de Caisnei, Wid[one] de Menchecurt. 


The earlier limit of date is due to the clause mentioning Reginald de 
Warenne, the earl’s brother. 


44. Confirmation by William [third] earl de Warenne to Castle 
Acre priory of the land of Threxton [Norfolk] which Osmoda 
wife of Philip de Candos gave with Philip’s assent. [1146-47] 


Castle Acre Chartulary, Harl. MS. 2110, f. 5. 


Will[elmus] comes de Warr[enna] Rain[aldo] de Warr[enna] 
fratri suo et omnibus baronibus et hominibus suis clericis et laicis 
salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et hac carta confirmasse Deo et sancte 
Marie de Acra et monachis ibidem commorantibus, pro salute anime 
mee et corporis mei et pro anima patris mei et omnium parentum 
meorum terram de Trichestan cum omnibus ad eam pertinentibus sicut 
Osmod uxor Philippi de Candos illam terram dedit et concessit Deo 
et sancte Marie annuente Philippo et heredibus suis. Quare volo et 
precipio ut illam terram ecclesia sancte Marie de Acra libere et quiete 
et in pace teneat sicut decet liberam et quietam elemosinam in terris 
et humagiis et pascuis et in aliis rebus cunctis. Tl[estibus], Will[elmo] 
Nowic[ensi]! episcopo, W. archidiacono, Rogero, Ric[ardo] de 
Ferr[ariis], Rad[ulfo] de Warr[enna], Robferto] de Frieuill’, Ela 
comitissa. 


This charter, as also the previous one, shows that Reginald de Warenne 
was engaged in administration on his brother’s behalf. Another writ issued 
by the earl at the same reference was directed ‘Reinaldo fratri meo et omni- 
bus ministris meis tam Francis et Anglis’; and another confirmation charter 
was witnessed by his brother Reginald de Warenne, ‘cui domum illam de 
Acra commisi custodiendam’, the earl being desirous of going to Jerusalem 
(f. 4V). The first witness was consecrated bishop of Norwich in 1146. 


45. Gift by William [third] earl de Warenne to the priory of the 
Holy Sepulchre, Thetford, of the site of the church and land 
there ; and his churches and tithes and all his interests in Thet- 
ford as king Stephen had held them and gave them to him. 
Also grant of a two days’ fair. [1138-47] 

Copy in Harley Ch. 57 E. 32. Pd. in Mon. Ang., vi, 729. 


Willelmus comes Warennie omnibus baronibus suis et omnibus 
hominibus suis Francis et Anglicis et amicis suis clericis et laicis tam 
presentibus quam futuris salutem. Omnibus vobis notum facio me con- 
cessisse et dedisse Deo et sanctissimo Sepulcro locum et sedem ecclesie 
sancti Sepulcri de Theford’ cum quadrugata terre infra campos ipsius 
ville libere et quiete in perpetuam elemosinam, pro amore Domini 
nostri Jhesu Christi ac sui sanctissimi Sepulcri, pro remissione pec- 
catorum meorum et pro salute anime Willelmi comitis patris mei et 
pro remissione peccatorum matris mee Isabelle et fratrum meorum 


1 Sic. 


94 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Radulphi War[ennie] et Reginaldi War[ennie] parentumque meorum 
vivorum ac defunctorum et omnium fidelium. Et volo et precipio ut 
isti canonici mei predicte ecclesie habeant saca et soca tol et taem et in- 
fangethef, eciamque ecclesias et decimas meas de Theford’ et homines 
et terras et faldas et pascua et omnia sua infra burgum et extra bene et 
in pace et honorifice cum omni ecclesiastica libertate teneant, sicut 
uncquam rex Stephanus melius et liberius tenuit et michi dedit. Con- 
cedo eciam eis feriam duorum dierum, scilicet in invencione sancte 
Crucis in Maio et aliam in exaltacione, solam et quietam de omni con- 
suetudine cuntis venientibus et ibi manentibus et redeuntibus illis mea 
firma pace concessa. Siquis autem super hoc aliquid eis forisfecerit aut 
contumeliam ingererit cito emendetur super decem libras forisfacture. 
Necnon et palmiferis fratribus meis et burgensibus et omnibus fidelibus 
amicis meis precor et precipio ac volo ut istam meam elemosinam et 
suam pro posse suo fideliter manuteneant et exaltent. Hujus donacionis 
et confirmacionis hii testes sunt Radulphus War[ennie], Reginaldus 
War[ennie], Radulphus de Bailol, etc. 


This is from an original inmspeximus and confirmation issued by John 
earl de Warenne (comes Warennie) at Methwold on 4 April 1315. It contains 
several charters! of which this is the first; two were issued by earl Hamelin; 
and the last is another by the third earl, directed to Reginald de Warenne, 
his brother, and all his ministers of Thetford and the burgesses. 

The clause in the present charter in which Isabel, the earl’s mother, is 
mentioned suggests that she was alive. As she appears to have died not later 
than 1147 (no. 41), this charter was probably issued early rather than late 
in the period assigned. 


46. Gift by William [third] earl de Warenne to the Templars of 
40s. yearly from his rents of Lewes. [1138-47] 
Pd. in d’Albon, Cartulaive Général de l’Ordve du Temple, no, 158; 
and in Miss Beatrice Lees, Records of the Templars, Brit. Acad- 
emy, p. 231. 

Willelmus comes de Warren{na] omnibus vicecomitibus et pre- 
positis et omnibus ministris suis et omnibus baronibus et hominibus 
suis Francis et Anglis qui sunt et futuri sunt salutem. Sciatis quod ego 
Willelmus comes de Warren[na] dedi fratribus milicie templi Salomonis 
unoquoque anno quadraginta solidos de meo censu de Lewlis, pro 
salute anime mee et antecessorum meorum. Hos quadraginta solidos 
mando et precipio ut semper ad festum sancti Michaelis habeant sine 
impedimento et sine occasione in perpetuum. Test[ibus], Radulfo de 
Warr[enna] et Jordano de Bloseuile et Radulfo de Baxwol? et Henrico 
Delhas et Ph[ilippo] de Querceto et Hugone de Petraponte et Edmundo 
de Stotivilla et Henrico capellano. Hec carta fuit [facta] Lewiis in 
presencia Pagani de Mundesonero et fratris Acelyni Rothomagi. 


Miss Lees, in her edition, notes that Pain de Montdidier, master of the 
Temple in France, appears to have been in England c. 1139; and she there- 
fore suggests 1139-40 as the probable date for this charter. 

1 All these are pd. in Mon. Ang., loc. cit. 


2 This name looks suspicious, and may be an error for Batlol or Baillol; 
cf. nos. 35, 41 (both originals) and 45. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 95 


47. Confirmation by William [third] earl de Warenne of the gift 
which William son of Philip [de Burnham] made to Reginald 
his brother of his land of Harpley [Norfolk]. [1146-47] 


Harl. MS. 970, old p. 47, copy of original charter. Pd. in D. Gurney, 
Record of the House of Gournay, p. 310. 


Willelmus comes Warren[nie] omnibus hominibus suis Francis 
et Anglis salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et hac presenti carta! mea 
confirmasse donationem illam quam fecit Willelmus filius Philippi 
Reginaldo fratri suo de terra sua? de Harpley sicut carta! predicti 
Willelmi testatur. Quare volo et precipio ut pacem meam et omnium 
meorum de terra illa habeat et libere et quiete et honorifice eam teneat 
ipse et heredes sui jure perpetuo. Testes, Reginaldus de Warren[na], 
Ancellinus de Pavill[iaco], Hugo Bardolf,® etc. 


This follows the charter of William son of Philip to his brother Reginald 
of half his land of Harpley, namely that part which his mother had held after 
the manor was divided between them, for the service of half a knight’s 
fee; the first witness being William, bishop of Norwich;‘ the date, therefore, 
being not earlier than 1146, or later than 1147 in view of the confirmation. 

The next charter is a copy of an original of earl Hamelin addressed 
‘omnibus baronibus suis Anglis ceterisque hominibus suis,’ giving to Matthew 
de Gournay the daughter of Reginald son of Philip as his wife and all her 
inheritance, to hold to him and his heirs of the grantor and his heirs.5 Her 
name was Rose as appears in a fine of 17 Oct. 1184 between Philip de Burn- 
ham and her husband and her for half a knight’s fee in Harpley, also copied.® 
Some notes on the Burnham family and a probable Warenne descent are 
given at p. 38 above. 


48. Letter of admonition from Theobald, archbishop of Canterbury, 
to Ala countess de Warenne with regard to the report that she 
had not paid to Lewes priory the tithe of money from the 
demesne lands which formed her dower. [1149-52] 

PLATE XIII 


Original letter, Cotton MS. Vespasian F. xii, no. 12. Pd. (and also 
elsewhere) in Selden, History of Tithes (1618 ed.), p. 342; Vincent, 
Discoverte of Evrours, p. 516; Watson, Memoirs of Warren and 
Surrey, i, 139; Sir H. Ellis,’ Original Letters, 3rd ser., i, 23; 
and Materials for Becket, Rolls Ser., vi, 372, from Giles, 
Epistole S. Thoma, no. 1978. 


.T. Dei gratia Cant[uariensis] archiepiscopus . Anglorum primas 
et apostolice sedis legatus . dilecte filie Ale comitisse Warrenne salutem. 
Peruenit ad aures nostras religiosorum fratrum Lewensis ecclesie 


charta, MS. 
tervam suam, MS. 
de Bardolf, MS. 
From the original with equestrian seal. Text pd. by Gurney, op. 
309. 
Text pd. ibid., p. 301. 
ext pd. 2bid., p..312. 
Thomas is printed in full with no indication that the original has the 
initial T. 
8 Giles, followed by the editor of Materials, has the curious mistake of 
Me. for Ale. 


eit., 


Ia ood « wD 


96 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


monachorum stupenda querimonia . quod cum ipsi ex antiqua donatione 
comitum Warenne uidelicet aui . et patris Willelmi uiri tui . et sui ipsius . 
etiam antequam dotem tuam consecuta fuisses . de omnibus dominiis 
comitis decimationem denariorum semper inconcusse tanquam ecclesie 
sue dotem possederint . tu post perceptam dotis tue inuestituram . 
eisdem fratribus ipsam decimationem que ad dotem tuam spectabat 
subtraxeris. Quod si ita est uehementer admiramur cum eorum que Deo 
et ecclesie sue in elemosinam collata esse noscuntur nichil doti tue 
uendicare debeas nec possis. Crudele enim est et sacrilegio proximum 
quod super diuinum altare semel deuote oblatum est . iterum repetere . 
et ad secularia transferre. Proinde tibi salubriter consulimus et in 
Domino admonemus quatinus sicut uis ius tuum tibia Deo libere con- 
seruari . ita ius suum cum integritate monachis relinquas . et nullatenus 
datam eis denariorum decimationem dotis tue . retineas . alioquin . 
eis in iusticia deesse non poterimus . cuius debitores omnibus existimus. 
Valete.? 


Selden assigned this letter to archbishop Theobald. Watson, while 
referring to the assignment in the Cotton MSS. to archbishop Thomas 
Becket,? was of the opinion that Theobald is correct. In recent times Warner 
and Ellis assigned it to Theobald without qualification. The assignment to 
Becket by Sir H. Ellis and by Giles, followed without comment by the editor 
of Materials, cannot be accepted. It must be supposed, as is pointed out 
by Watson, that it was issued before countess Ala’s second marriage to 
Patrick earl of Salisbury. The date of that marriage is not known. But 
William earl of Salisbury, her eldest son by earl Patrick, appears to have 
attained full age by Michaelmas 1174 at the latest;*+ and, on the other hand, 
her younger son Patrick, described as ‘adhuc puer,’ witnessed a charter of 
probable date 1159-64 (no. 111 below). Her second marriage can therefore 
be taken as not later than 1152. As there is good evidence that archbishop 
Theobald became legate between Oct. 1149 and March 1150,> the limits of 
1149-52 for the date of the letter can be assumed. 

A parallel for the ambiguity of initial letters may be seen in a charter 
of Th’, archbishop of York, to Holy Trinity priory, York; and the evidence 
now seems clear that it was issued by archbishop Thomas II and not by 
Thurstan.° 

An original charter of the countess’s husband, the third earl, to Lewes 
priory, which includes a comprehensive gift of tithes, is printed at no. 32 
above. 


1 The tear at the bottom of the parchment suggests that it had been 
cut for a tongue. There is an endorsement in an early hand giving the 
archbishop’s initial T. 

2 In Catalogue of Cotton MSS. (1802), p. 504 the writer is given as T. 
(Becket); but in Index to Charters and Rolls, vol. ii (1912), p. 452 as Theobald. 

3 British Museum Facsimiles, note to no. 25. 

4 Pipe Roll 20 Hen. II, pp. 28, 32; and cf. his description in ibd. 19 
Hen, 11, pp. 96, Vl: 

5 These limits, kindly supplied by Mr. A. Saltman, depend on the fact 
that Theobald was not legate when Walter bp of Coventry was consecrated 
on 2 Oct. 1149, and his description as legate in a letter (Mon. Ang., iv, 470) 
to Simon bp of Worcester, who died 20 March 1149-50. 

6 E.Y.C., vi, no. 11, and notes thereto; and for further evidence, which 
seems conclusive, see Y.A.J., xxxvi, 135. 


PLATE XIII 


"ur Z£ Aq L oztg gh “ON 


qmiaoe « aie PERS ana. Siyergos a alfpo nae Byes o 0 fra - 
 f20g_ Quon yonap sbensvuap je Ba Wis Crt” Kaa ei &3 dae jagrrsious sy. am 
amy far yea tAWN kalwor_2gny 0 re 2 oe fof fo af u * ak yas cup ub ez pani 
Us? augmye) 2 23 ae G amedies wee 4.5 z Anz A Wat» bs i BAIT yur) 

Bet gg Hagel yl So A 9 Solis fapa, soe 


beeen 4 am. oy Aiqaves aunafon, ery View jowaye ul au ‘a Xx ae aul 7D on 


an . 
yoashrcnsctases: MBAUEIGIN i 3 i x: i saxaqnh args » vn Aan avonvensp > ie ‘drath 
¥r- coeg) Bae AME} pues, vadod 3 ye ie Saige le ime pay Fauna aiiwausous 42) 


t Howinag Auoayv asad Snug ‘qrsto. AR® fale vanaahuea vu 2 204 ws» Ng = Cole ais 


same yawosy o- 


rye na 4417 fa) ra a eae ny. eney eunmad So x2 jay 


' Stee ’ 
np ay vee 
g , 
my wy ® m He : ins 
beg hier rp ASQ ge ts RES Te 
4 Dt WIAD 5 ae STL > eee ° 2 
aga 2 ae (Syn: Aer a 
J ‘ 5 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 97 


CHARTERS OF REGINALD DE WARENNE AS ADMINISTRATOR 
AND OF THE FOURTH EARL 


Original charters relating to lands of the honour of Warenne 
which were issued by William son of king Stephen, who became 
the fourth earl by reason of his marriage with the daughter and 
heir of the third earl, are rare." One only is available (no. 52). It 
is proved to be his by the confirmation issued by countess Isabel 
(no. 53). For lands of the honour in Yorkshire a single charter is 
available which, as it was addressed to archbishop Roger, can 
be assigned to the fourth earl (no. 51). 


49. Notification by Reginald de Warenne to William, prior of 
Lewes, that he confirmed the hide of land in Rottingdean given 
to the priory by Ralph d’Angiens, and that if Jesus Christ brought 
back the earl [from the crusade] he would cause him to con- 
firm it. [1147-48] : 

Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 30V.2 Translation 
ELM ON See a ira fo 

Willelmo Dei gratia priori de sancto Pancratio totique conventui 
eyusdem loci Regin[aldus] de Warenn[a] salutem. Sciatis quod ego 
concedo illam hidam terre Deo et sancto Pancratio et vobis esse datam 
quam Rad[ulfus] de Angiens’ vobis dedit de sua terra in Rottingdena 
et bene in manu capio. Sciatis itaque quod si dominus Jesus Christus 
dominum comitem Warenn[ie] reduxerit bene faciemus eum hoc idem 
concedere. Test[ibus], Simone de Kayle et Roberto de Wieneual et 

R. Pulcro. 


This charter and the next show that Reginald de Warenne was acting 
for his brother, the third earl, after the latter’s departure for the crusade 
in 1147, The hide had been given by Ralph de Angens by a charter still 
preserved; testibus, Rogerio presbitero, Adam vicecomite, Willelmo Luuello, 
Rannulfo dapifero, Radulfo Walense.3 


50. Notification by Reginald de Warenne to the sheriff of Lewes 
and all the barons of the earl [de Warenne] that by the counsel 
of the prior of Lewes and the earl’s barons he had restored to 
the burgesses of Lewes the gild-merchant as they had had it in the 
time of his grandfather and his father, rendering 20s. yearly 
to the prefecture of Lewes; undertaking that if God should 
bring back the earl [from the crusade] he would do his best to 
obtain the earl’s confirmation, or otherwise that of his lord 
earl William, the king’s son. [1148 or soon after] 

Original charter, Cotton MS. Nero C. iii, f. 190 (inlaid); British 


Museum Facsimiles, no. 31. Lewes Chartulary, f. 111; + 
translation in S.R.S., ii, 25. 


' A survey of his charters relating to lands of his other honours is given 
in Appendix C above. gaNinaiheredeon 


3 Anc. Deed A. 15528; Lewes Chartulary, f. 118% (S.R.S., ii, 44), 


+ Numbered ~ 


98 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Reginald[us] de War[enna] . vic[ecomiti] de Lewiis . et omnibus 
baronibus com[itis] ceterisque uniuersis eiusdem hominibus tam 
Francis quam Anglicis . sal[utem]. Notum uobis sit quod ego communi 
consilio prioris de sancto Pancratio et baronum consulis reddidi bur- 
gensibus Lewiensibus mercatoriam ghildam cum omnibus consuetu- 
dinibus et dignitatibus que ad illam pertinent . tam quietam et liberam 
sicut habuerunt illam in tempore aui et patris mei . per .xx. sol[idos] . 
reddendo annuatim . prefecture de Lewilis . et tali conuentione quod si 
Deus com[item] reduxerit . pro posse meo faciam quod ipse eis predicto 
pacto prefatam ghildam concedet . sin autem . faciam pro posse meo 
quod dominus meus comes Will[elmus] filius regis eis eandem concedet 
ghildam. Tl[estibus] . Willelmo priore de sancto Panc[ratio] . Ric- 
[ardo] cam[erario] . Eustac[io] clerico comitis Willelmi filii regis . 
Hug[one] de Petropont[e] . Rad[ulfo] de Plaeiz . Rad[ulfo] de Wib- 
[urcuilla] . Rob[erto] de Petropont[e] . Ade vic[ecomite] . Baldewin[o] 
de Friuill’ . Sim[one] de Hangelton.’ 


Endorsed : cart’? Reginald’ de gilda; and xxvij over R; also number 
xii). 

The editors of the B.M Facsimiles point out that as William son of king 
Stephen is mentioned as having obtained an interest in the Warenne pos- 
sessions, this charter was issued after his marriage to Isabel the third 
earl’s daughter, and they add that the grantor still doubted the death of his 
brother the third earl, “hoping perhaps that he had only been taken 
prisoner.’”’ It can therefore be deduced that the charter was probably issued 
in 1148 or soon after. 

The third witness can be identified as Eustace who as chancellor 
witnessed charters of William son of king Stephen in the period 1153-59.! 
The sixth witness occurs as Ralph de Wiburcuill’ or Wiburuill’ as a witness 
to charters of the third earl (nos. 39, 42), and another of Reginald de War- 
enne (note to no. 39). The eighth witness was evidently the sheriff of Lewes 
to whom the charter was addressed. 


51. Notification by William [fourth] earl de Warenne to Roger, 
archbishop of York, of his confirmation to Nostell priory of the 
gifts which Elias de Bosville had made, namely 50 acres of land 
in Barnborough, the mill of Harlington, except 10s. 8d. retained 
by him therein, and a bovate of land with a toft adjacent to the 
mill as William the miller had held it. [1154-59] 


Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, f. 58 (old p. 131). 


Willelmus comes Warennie Rogero Dei gratia Ebor[acensi] 
archiepiscopo omnibusque fidelibus sancte ecclesie cunctisque heredi- 
bus suis salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et presenti carta confirmasse 
Deo et ecclesie sancti Oswaldi de Nostlad L. acras terre quas Helias de 
Boseuilla predicte ecclesie dedit et concessit in elemosinam in Barne- 
burch. Confirmo etiam eidem ecclesie pro salute anime mee molendin- 
um de Herlingtona quod prefatus Helias predicte ecclesie dedit excepto 
quod retinuit in eodem molendino x. solidos et viij. denarios. Pre- 
dictam autem terram habebit eadem ecclesia in Barneburc quousque 


1 See Appendix C above. 


en eel A (ey 
re =e: ae 2 i ‘ A 4 
4 - a <> aS Chess 


._ << 


PLATE XIV 


Seg SED ROOT 


No. 52 Size 54 by 4 in. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 99 


Helias molendinum deliberaverit, et tunc ecclesia sancti Oswaldi plen- 
ariter imperpetuum molendinum possidebit. Confirmo etiam ecclesie 
sancti Oswaldi unam bovatam terre cum tofta que molendino adjacet 
uti Willelmus molendinarius eam tenuit. Quare volo et precipio ut 
ista elemosina sit rata et libera et quieta ab omni seculari consuetudine 
et servitio uti aliqua elemosina liberior et quietior est in tota terra 
mea. Hujus rei testes sunt, etc. 


Gifts made by Elias de Bosville, which included the mill of Harlington 
and the same bovate and toft, are recorded in his notification to archbishop 
Henry, which can be dated 1148-52 (no. 100 below). These gifts had been 
confirmed by William de Warenne, son of Henry earl of Northumberland, 
before June 1152 (no. 101). It will be noticed that in the present charter 
including a larger amount of land,' which, in view of its address to arch- 
bishop Roger, cannot have been issued before 1154, and was therefore later 
than the fourth earl’s succession as count of Boulogne in 1153, his style 
comes Bolonie is not included. This shows that the omission of that style 
cannot be taken as proving that any of his charters in which he is described 
merely as comes Warennie can be assigned to the extreme limits of 1148-53.? 


52. Gift by William [fourth] earl de Warenne to Lewes priory of the 
land of Burchard for a hospice for the use of the priory; 20s. 
being deducted from the tithe of money of the rent of his manor 
of Betchworth [Surrey]. [1148-59] 

PLATE XIV 


Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15408. Lewes Chartulary, 
f. 22 (without witnesses); 3 translation in S.R.S., i, 38. 


Sciant presentes et futuri . quod ego . Willelmus comes de 
Waren[na] dono Deo et sancto Pancratio . et monachis ibidem Deo 
seruientibus in libera elemosina . totam terram . Burchardi. cum omnibus 
pertinentiis suis . ad unum hospicium ad opus prioris . et monachorum 
suorum . tali diuisione . quod . xxi. solidi cadent de decima denariorum 
redditus mei . manerii de Becheswerda . quos predicti monachi habere 
solebant. T[estibus] . Rog[ero] capell[ano] . Jordan[o] de Blosseuil’ . 
Will[elmo] de Petrop[onte] . et Drogon[e] de Frieuill.’ 


* Seal missing. 
Endorsed : D. x. V1; (and) de terra Burchard . de Becheswrtha. 


Taken by itself it would seem probable that the grantor was the third 
earl, for three of the witnesses occur in a charter which he issued in or shortly 
after 1138 (no. 35), and the second witness in three of his charters (nos. 
41, 43, 46) and in one of the second earl (no. 26), though William de Pierre- 
pont was certainly living in 1147 (nos. 32-3) and so was Drew de Freville.‘ 


1 Possibly including land given in a later charter of Elias de Bosville 
(no. 102). 

2 For an examination of this point see Appendix C above. 

3 Numbered 5 

4 Lewes Chartulary, f. 119 (S.2.S., 1, 47). 


100 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


But the terms of this charter, followed so closely by the next, make it 
reasonably certain that the grantors were the fourth earl and his wife 
countess Isabel. 


53. Confirmation by Isabel countess de Warenne to Lewes priory of 
the land of Burchard, in accordance with the charter of William 
earl de Warenne, her husband, on the same condition as affecting 
tithe from her manor of Betchworth. [1148-59] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 33V.! Translation 
INAS. eo tens 


Notum sit presentibus et futuris quod ego Is[abella] comitissa 
Warenn[ie] concedo Deo et sancto Pancratio et monachis ibidem Deo 
servientibus, in liberam et quietam elemosinam, totam terram Burch- 
ardi cum omnibus pertinenclis suis, sicut carta domini mei Willelmi 
comitis testatur, scilicet ad unum hospicium ad opus prioris et mon- 
achorum suorum tali divisione quod viginti solidi cadent de decima 
denariorum redditus mei manerii de Becheswrda quos predicti monachi 
habere solebant. Test[ibus], Heru[eo] capellano et Acelino presbitero 
et Osberto Giffard et Aluered[o] preposito. 


CHARTERS OF EARL HAMELIN AND COUNTESS ISABEL 


The first series (nos. 54 to 66), of which one is an original 
charter, relates to the churches and other possessions of Lewes 
priory in Yorkshire; it includes confirmations issued by arch- 
bishop Geoffrey and the pope. This is followed by several of earl 
Hamelin’s charters dealing with lands of the honour of Conis- 
borough and the manor of Wakefield (nos. 67 to 76), of which one 
is an original; and then by eight documents relating to lands and 
interests outside Yorkshire (nos. 77 to 84), of which four are 
originals. There are three charters (nos. 85 to 87) issued by 
countess Isabel after the death of her husband; two of these are 
originals. 

In suggesting narrower limits for the dates of earl Hamelin’s 
charters between the extremes of 1164, when he married countess 
Isabel, and 1202, when he died, there are a few criteria which 
provide satisfactory evidence, though in many instances the 
limits of date must be spread over a considerable period. Some . 
can be dated before or after the death of king Henry II in 1189. 
Those which were witnessed by Reginald de Warenne were not 
issued later than 1179.2. It is unlikely that those in which earl 
Hamelin’s son William, afterwards the sixth earl, is mentioned 
as a consenting party, were issued earlier than 1180. No. 71, 
which was witnessed by the constables of Conisborough and 
Wakefield and the earl’s steward of Conisborough, can be dated 
1174-78. 


1 Numbered = 


2 See p. 27 above. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 101 


54. Confirmation by Hamelin earl de Warenne to Lewes priory of 
all the churches and lands of his fee, with quittance of hidage 
or any other geld demanded by the king; and confirmation of 
the church of Conisborough. [1164-79] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 24.1 Translation 
Wino wt.0411, 40. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Hamelinus comes de War- 
enna volens devocionem supplere et donacionem comitum de Warenna 
dono concedo et confirmo hac carta mea Deo et sancto Pancratio et 
monachis ibidem Deo servientibus in liberam elemosinam omnes eccles- 
ias et omnes terras et omnia tenementa sua que habent de feodo meo 
cujuscumque donacionis sint libera soluta et quieta sicut carte dona- 
torum testantur et sicut comites de Warenna eis confirmaverunt ut 
eandem libertatem habeant quam predicti comites de Warenna eis 
concesserunt, videlicet ut si rex aliquando de terra sancti Pancratii sive 
de hidagio sive de aliquo alio geldo aliquid capere voluerit ego de meo 
eam quietam? faciam. Hec precepi et precipio ministris meis ut sic 
faciant. Preterea constituo et precipio ut in omnibus rebus et hominibus 
suis per omnia idem habeant quod ego ibi haberem si michi retinuissem, 
quatinus si homines sancti Pancratii commiserint contra me vel meos 
unde emendacionem vel forisfacturam habere debeam prior sancti 
Pancratii eam pro me accipiat et habeat, providens ne qui post me futuri 
sunt per hujus occasiones terram sancti Pancratii lederent et con- 
funderent. Dono eciam eis et confirmo ecclesiam de Cuningeburg 
cum omnibus pertinenciis suis et donacionem ejusdem ecclesie et 
quicquid commodi de ea eis poterit provenire, ut ipsi libere et integre 
eam possideant et quicumque eam de eis tenuerit. Hec omnia facio 
pro salute domini mei regis Angl[orum] et salute mea et uxoris mee et 
pro animabus omnium antecessorum et heredum meorum. Test[ibus], 
etc. 


There follows in the Chartulary another copy of the same charter, with 
one or two trivial differences, the words ‘et heredum meorum’ at the end being 
omitted. There is also a charter of countess Isabel, issued with the consent 
of her husband earl Hamelin, to the same effect in almost precisely the same 
words, the clause relating to the church of Conisborough being, however, 
omitted; hiis testibus, Rogerio capellano, Oddone presbitero, Reginaldo de 
Warenna, Rad{[ulfo] de Plaiz, Razo de Buc, Rad[ulfo] de Querceto, Willelmo 
de Bellomonte, Burnello de Aumenil, Willelmo Luuel, Willelmo filio domini 
Reg{inaldi],3 Willelmo de Bellencumbr’, Rad{ulfo] vinetario.* In view of 
the third witness the latest date is 1179,5 and as the eighth witness can 
presumably be identified with Burnellus de Meinillo who witnessed another 


1 Numbered 3 

2 Then another eam in MS. in error; omitted in the next copy. 

3 There can be no doubt about this extension. The witness was evidently 
William son of Reginald de Warenne, who witnessed another charter of the 
countess with five of the above witnesses (Chartulary, f. 34V; S.R.S., i, 66); 
and cf. no. 77 and note. 

4 Chartulary, f. 31 (S.#.S., i, 56). 

5 See p. 27 above. 


102 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


charter of the countess, 1189-1202 (no. 65), and a Kirkburton charter in 
1198 (no. 158), the date is probably nearer 1179 than 1164. It is likely that 
earl Hamelin’s charter was issued on the same occasion. 


55. Notification by Hamelin earl de Warenne to Roger archbishop 
of York that he had confirmed to Lewes priory the church of 
Conisborough and the churches and chapels of Braithwell, 
Harthill, Dinnington, [Kirk] Sandal, Fishlake, Hatfield and 
Thorne, with the tithes of Clifton [Conisborough], Crookhill, 
Ravenfield, Dalton and the other Dalton [Rotherham], Greas- 
brough, ‘Rodes,’ Morthen, Firsby [in Ravenfield], ‘Suthsowerd’e’, 
Guilthwaite, and Aston; and the churches of Wakefield and 
Sandal [Magna], the chapel of Horbury, and the churches of 
Dewsbury, Kirkburton, Hartshead and Halifax. [1164-81] 

PLATE XV 
Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 14270. Lewes Chartulary, 
f, 25V- translation in S.R.S., i, 47; abst. in_Y.A.J., xxxi,; 2983 

Rogero Dei gratia Eborac[ensi] archiepiscopo . et uniuersis 
sancte Eboracensis ecclesie filiis . Hamelinus comes Warennie . salutem. 
Nouerit uestra paternitas . quod omnes donationes a predecessoribus 
meis comitibus illustribus Warennie monasterio sancti Pancratii de 
Lewes . et fratribus ibidem Deo seruientibus et seruituris factas . 
ratas habeo . et sigilli mei attestatione confirmo. Et ne contra generalem 
confirmationem aliqua possit inposterum circa particularia materia 
questionis emergere . nominatim in ecclesia de Cuningesburg . et in 
subscriptis ecclesiis . et capellis . et decimationibus . et pertinentiis . 
quicquid iuris laicus habere uel dare potest . predictis fratribus dono . 
concedo et confirmo . videlicet ecclesiam de Cuningesburg . et de 
Bradewelle . et de Hertil . et de Duningtun’ . et de Sandala . et de 
Fislac . et de Hetfelde . et de Thorn . cum omnibus decimis et omnibus 
pertinentiis earum . scilicet decimam de Cliftunne . et de Crocheswelle . 
et de Rauenesfeld . et de Daltune . et de altera Daltune . et de Gres- 
broc . et de Rodes . et de Mordinges . et de Frisbie . et de Suth- 
sowerd’e . et de Gillethueit . et de Estona . ecclesiam etiam de Wache- 
feld . ecclesiam de Sandala . et capellam de Horribi . ecclesiam de 
Dawesberg . et de Burgtun’ . et de Hertesefeth . ecclesiam de Halifax . 
cum omnibus aliis pertinentiis predictarum ecclesiarum. Vnde uestram 
uniuersitatem exoro . ut in predictis ecclestis et possessionibus . iura 
memoratorum fratrum manutenere . et inuiolata custodire uelitis ut 
et a me gratiam . et a Deo debeatis expectare mercedem. Valeat uni- 
uersitas uestra in Domino. 

Slit for tag. 

Endorsed : descriptive words, but no number. 

Archbishop Roger died on 26 Nov. 1181, which fixes the latest limit of 
date for this notification and the next. In the present one the places named 


1 The Chartulary text is far from accurate in some of the place-names; 
but a few words, printed here in italics, have been taken to restore damaged 
portions in the original. 


2 Numbered in Chartulary 5 


Pi Dee Vv 


ee ayy 
me os ae helnets 10.7) Umiiat's Sir Lioaccnfit: ’ “Ela is Baad 
he. ES ots wy parniaf, qh omf Sonansnef’ 2 7 Tonb Pree! fmt? dluf 


bu is ahh 4 Nonatterio Sa Panent SA Sieranbut hie ‘ PAS Fo AE 
a Iabo-- oe Krall met arvellanone’ ghirmo: f+ i * “oytialem shectancione” 


ra 
a 


salt. 


" SP BP. snpollesic cc paroenlana, mana guelhom| emote: “notanim m ect Ye 
Beeler: “in fuls {yal tchits {apellf- 2 EE Fe “wy Panennrf. gquicge 
af Taco ye nel Save pore: puch {al hone concede ngonfrrme Ste Ceetiam 
pos: ive ebraelle mbe Vyerete She Dunniguitt-- nde Ssanvala Se file 
. We - ade (nn aun ovih? Navi orn? prnentnt cara Salt hiaae deff 
™ ( rocheaelle. aie Ranenelfeld. ode Dalame: +e Ala dalame: ade Grefbro 
Rel rat finde Morbrngt nybe Cafe: mde Suthfoweibed sbulleckuere, ade Coma 
mn eram Ledgachefeld (diam Se Sandala- “4 fapelts,. Asoeali ties Se fa 
xy oh Br mde \ervd efedy. hes be halhyes ox? Als£-ponenciel pre 
tie qt. Gade utam dinuilacane ex t sseppcl “pollen same 


ca 
ma 1 


; se bo smanucen®. oy ssarsioliia. cline udint 
Betare amerecdem: Nalear anita, fa mM, mere 


No. 55 Rizk 6 by aya 


" vat) fi iNidihs i 


SRL |. 


i wk 4 ‘- 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 103 


are in two groups, those within the honour of Conisborough and those 
within the manor of Wakefield. 


56. Notification by Hamelin earl de Warenne to Roger archbishop 
of York that he had inspected the charters of his predecessors 
showing that they had given to Lewes priory all the churches 
and chapels of his honour in Yorkshire, and that he had con- 
firmed their gift. [1164-81] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 26.1 Translation in 
S:R.S.,i, 48; abst; in ¥:A.J., xxxi, 295. 


Patri suo venerando R[ogero] Ebor[acensi] archiepiscopo 
H[amelinus] comes de Warenn[a] salutem. Sciatis quod ego inspexi 
cartas predecessorum meorum in quibus continetur quod omnes 
ecclesias et capellas cum omnibus pertinenciis suis de honore meo de 
Euerwyk sira dederunt monachis de Lewes, et ego eorum donacionem 
carta mea confirmavi. Unde volo quod clericos presentent et in omni- 
bus que ad ecclesias illas et capellas pertinent libere disponant. 


57. Letter from Hamelin earl de Warenne to Guy Ruffus, saying 
that he had heard that the church of Braithwell belonged to the 
church of Conisborough, and asking him to present master 
Clement to the archbishop for institution to the church of 
Braithwell instead of Philip, brother of the countess his wife, 
on whose behalf he had often made a request to Guy. [1173-81] 


Reg. Magnum Album, i, f. 73. Pd. in Hist. of Church of York, Rolls 
Ser., ili, 86, from the same. 


Hamelinus comes Warrennie Guidoni Ruffo salutem. Sepe 
rogavi vos pro Philippo fratre comitisse uxoris mee ut ipsum ad ecclesiam 
de Bradewelle reciperetis, et quia inquisivi et didici a juris sapientibus 
et discretis? quod ecclesia de Bradewelle ad ecclesiam de Chuningesby® 
pertinet volo ut ad vos et ad ecclesiam de Chuningesby® pertineat* 
liberum jus presentandi clericum ad ecclesiam de Bradwelle, ne per 
me ecclesia de Chuningesby® in aliquo detrimentum paticiatur.® 
Ideoque peto a vobis ut postpositis precibus quas feci pro Philippo 
fratre comitisse de ecclesia de Bradewelle presentetis magistrum 
Clementem clericum archiepiscopo Ebor[acensi]® ad ecclesiam de 
Bradewelle ut ipse ad ecclesiam illam per presentacionem vestram’ 
recipiatur. 


[added at the end] Fatuus fatua loquitur et que ad se non per- 
tinent® violenter usurpat.® 


— 


Numbered a 


et discretis omitted in Hust. Ch. Y. 
Chunigesby, ibid, 

pertinet, ibid. 

Sic; patiatur, ibid. 

archiepiscopt Eboracensis, ibid. 

nostvam, apparently in MS. 

pertinet, MS. 

The letter is headed : De hoc Hamelino nichil. 


Coonan un + WB ND 


104 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Countess Isabel and Philip her brother witnessed a charter of Osbert, 
prior of Lewes, who occurs as prior ¢. 1180.2. Philip, who was her half- 
brother, was a younger son of Isabel’s mother Ela, widow of the third earl, 
by her second husband Patrick earl of Salisbury, and cannot have attained 
full age before 1173.3 This suggests the earlier limit of date for the present 
letter. Guy Ruffus died not later than 1189 (no. 58). The archbishopric 
of York was vacant for the period 1181-89; and the mention of the arch- 
bishop suggests, therefore, that the later limit of date for the letter is 1181. 


58. Gift by Hamelin earl de Warenne to Lewes priory of the church 
of Conisborough to be held in demesne, which church the 
monks had received after the death of Guy who had held it of 
them, and which they were holding ‘in proprios usus’ by the 
authority of pope Lucius III and the grace of king Henry [II], 
his brother, and with his own assent; together with all chapels 
and churches belonging to it, to be held likewise ‘ad proprios 
usus’ when they should fall vacant ; for the welfare of king Henry, 
and for his own and of countess Isabel his wife and William 
their son, and for the soul of Geoffrey count of Anjou, his 
father, whose anniversary the monks would celebrate; any in- 
crement to be devoted to the alms of the poor, the entertain- 
ment of visitors on the day of his father’s anniversary, and the 
feeding of the convent. [1182-89] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 25v.* Translation in 
S. RS. 1,46; abst. in Y.4.7;, xxxi,- 294: 


eo ese 


1 Anc. Deed A. 2389; Cat. Anc. Deeds, ii, 73. 

2 V.C.H. Sussex, ii, 69. 

3 See p. 13 above, and the notes to nos. 48, 80, 111. 
4 


Numbered = 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 105 


Gf{aufridi] comitis And[egauorum] patris nostri in domo sancti Pan- 
cratii sicut faciunt pro fundatoribus domus. Idem vero monachi de 
incremento hujus beneficii quod per nos consecuti sunt ad presens et 
futuro tempore amplius Deo volente consequentur elemosinas pauperum 
et procuracionem omnium hospitum anniversaria die prefati comitis 
Andeg[auorum] patris nostri superveniencium necnon et refeccionem 
conventus plenarie et honorifice procurabunt. Hiis testibus, etc. 


The date is later than the death of archbishop Roger and earlier than 
that of Henry II. Lucius III was pope from 1181 to 1185. 


59. Confirmation by Hamelin earl de Warenne, with the assent of 
countess Isabel his wife and of William his son and heir, 
to Lewes priory of all the gifts of his predecessors, including in 
Yorkshire the churches of Conisborough, Wakefield, Halifax, 
Dewsbury, Sandal Magna, Kirkburton, Hatfield with the chapel 
of Thorne, Fishlake, Harthill, Kirk Sandal, and Dinnington; 
also gift of the tithe of money from his rents everywhere and 
grant of several privileges ; also confirmation of all the tithe of [?] 
shingle of ‘Rigeburg,’ and the mills of Meeching [modern 
Newhaven] and ‘Higardeseya,’ in view of the exchange of Bar- 
combe [Sussex] and Meeching which he had made. [1180-1202] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 23.1 Translation in 
Se cla Paste 1 oA) 2, eke, ooo, 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Hamelinus comes Warenn[ie] 
voluntate et assensu Ysabelle comitisse uxoris mee et Willelmi filii 
et heredis mei dedi concessi et confirmavi Deo et monachis sancti 
Pancratii de Lewes ibidem Deo in perpetuum servituris, pro salute 
animarum nostrarum et pro anima regis Henrici fratris mei, omnes 
donaciones concessiones et confirmaciones et omnia que eis dederunt 
concesserunt et cartis suis confirmaverunt predecessores mei comites 
Warennfie] in terris scilicet in ecclesiis et decimis et aquis et boscis in 
pratis et pasturis et in omnibus rebus aliis cum libertatibus omnibus 
et liberis consuetudinibus et dignitatibus quas dederunt eis predicti 
comites ita libere et quiete et pacifice sicut ipsi habuerunt et tenuerunt. 
Dedi eciam eis in Eboraci syra ecclesiam de Cuningeburgh’ cum ecclesiis 
capellis terris et decimis et omnibus suis append[iciis], et ecclesiam de 
Wakfeld cum pertinenciis suis, ecclesiam de Halifax, ecclesiam de 
Dewesbery, ecclesiam de Sandale maiori, ecclesiam de Burtone,” 
ecclesiam de Hedfeld cum capella de Thorne, ecclesiam de Fislac,* 
ecclesiam de Hertille, ecclesiam de minori Sandale, ecclesiam de 
Dunintone cum omnibus earum pertinenciis, ita quod quicquid de 
terris eveniat in quibus sunt fundate ipse ecclesie vel ad cujuscumque 
dominium quocumque modo devenerint ecclesie semper libere et 
quiete monachis remaneant ut nullus aliquod jus advocacionis sive 
presentacionis sibi possit in illis vendicare. Dedi eciam predictis mon- 
achis totam decimam denariorum meorum de redditibus et de eventibus 


1 Numbered m4 


2 Burrone, MS. 
3 Fillac, MS. 


106 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


et de omnibus omnino rebus undecumque et quibuscumque modis 
michi et successoribus meis evenerint, ita quod sicut crescunt res 
nostre et eventus nostri sic semper crescant decime monachorum. Et 
si aliquid inde expensum fuerit in me vel in meos volo quod statim et 
sine dilatione de meo reddatur. Et si contingat quod ego capiam ali- 
quando in manu mea res ipsas unde decime provenerunt quum fuerunt 
vel ad censum vel per aliquam aliam pacacionem in manu aliorum, volo 
quod nihilominus habeant plene de ipsis rebus tot denar[iorum] ad 
valenciam et quantitatem decime quam habuerunt et haberent si ipse 
res in manu aliorum fuissent. Et quecumque mutacio futura sit vel quo- 
cumque modo ipse res unde decima denar[iorum] surgit in alienum 
dominium transeat, semper decima denariorum monachis remaneat. 
Volo eciam quod de omnibus contencionibus et placitis que umquam 
eveniant inter homines sancti Pancratii et me et meos unde forisfactura 
eveniat prior sancti Pancratii semper capiat et habeat forisfacturam 
et emendas de hominibus suis. Volo eciam et concedo quod monachi 
habeant in perpetuum totum mercatum lignorum tribus diebus in 
septimana sine aliqua contradiccione vel impedimento burgensium vel 
quorumcumque aliorum quam diu carriagium duraverit. Volo eciam ut 
monachi mei licenciam et potestatem habeant piscandi in aquis meis 
juxta Lewes ad magnas festivitates et nominatim ad anniversaria comitum 
Waren[nie] et comitissarum predecessorum meorum et heredum 
meorum in perpetuum. Volo eciam et concedo ut averia monachorum 
propria de manerio suo de gardino suo habeant pasturam cum averiis 
meis propriis in boscis et planis et in omnibus locis sine aliqua con- 
tradiccione, averia autem hominum suorum habeant pasturam in com- 
munia mea cum averiis hominum meorum. Dedi eciam et concessi 
predictis monachis totam decimam de peredo! de Rigeburg et molen- 
dinum de Mecing’ cum iiij. acris terre et molendinum de Higardeseya 
cum stagno adjacente ita ut habeant de bosco proximo et de terra 
quicquid et quociens necesse fuerit ad stagnum et molendinum rep- 
arand[a] et? meliorand[a]. Hanc confirmacionem et concessionem feci 
eis ut propter escambium quod feci de Bercampe et de Mecing’ qui 
venturi sunt post me aliquod jus in predictis molendinis et stagnis et 
rebus aliis quas monachi ante habuerunt sibi [non] possint vendicare. 
Hiis testibus, etc. 


Earl Hamelin had issued a separate charter with the same assents, giving 
all the tithe of his [?] shingle (perredo) of Rakeburg belonging to Mecing.’? 
The second earl included in a confirmation the mill of Gardeseye and another 
mill with land in Mecinges;* a mill at Mecinges with 4 acres was confirmed 
by Henry I ante 1118;5 and two mills at Mechingas by archbishop Ralph in 
1121.6 The third earl included two mills and 4 acres at Mecinges and the 


1 Perhaps an etymological connexion with the French pierre; and the 
meaning, especially in view of the geographical context, may be shingle. 

2 et repavand([a], MS. 

3 Chartulary, f. 24V (S.R.S., i, 44). 

4 Ibid., f. 23 (S.R.S., i, 40). Cf. another charter giving the mill of 
Mechinges with 4 acres (ibid., f. 21V; S.R.S., i, 36). 

5 Ancient Charters, Pipe Roll Soc., no. 4. 

6 Ibid... NO. 3; 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 107 


mill of Ergadeseya in a confirmation in 1147.1 But the priory does not seem to 
have retained continuous possession of all of them; and apparently one of the 
Meeching mills formed a gift by Reginald de Warenne (of Wormegay) when 
he became a monk at Lewes, 1178-79. 

In 1185, being the year in which Baldwin bishop of Worcester was 
elected to the archbishopric of Canterbury, the earl issued a charter giving 
the tithe of all his rents in England, especially of his additional property in 
Norfolk, which up to that date the priory had not received in full.3 


60. Confirmation by archbishop Geoffrey to Lewes priory of the 
appropriation of the church of Conisborough with its chapels, 
the vicars to be priests and to have 15 marks yearly. Also con- 
firmation of the churches of Wakefield, Dewsbury with the 
chapel of Hartshead, Sandal Magna, Hatfield with the chapel 
of Thorne, Kirk Sandal with the chapel of Armthorpe, Harthill 
and Fishlake, with specified pensions therein, and of pensions in 
the chapel of Edlington and in the churches of Kirkburton and 
Dinnington; and confirmation of the tithes of the demesnes of 
earl de Warenne in the diocese of York, and the tithes of Greas- 
brough, Dalton [Rotherham], Herringthorpe, Ravenfield, Clifton 
(Conisborough], Warmsworth, Firsby, and Butterbusk [Warms- 
worth], with payments from the tithes of Rotherham and Cus- 
worth; and also the land of Trumfleet [Kirk Sandal] and 
Wilsick. i [1194-99 ; ? 1196-98] 


Pd. in Reg. Corbridge, Surtees Soc., i, 47, from the register of arch- 
bishop Corbridge, f.. 33. 


Gaufridus Dei gracia Ebor[acensis] archiepiscopus et Anglie 
primas universis sancte matris ecclesie filiis ad quos presentes littere 
pervenerint salutem in Domino. Noverit universitas vestra nos pro 
amore Dei et sincere caritatis intuitu et pro anima patris nostri bone 
memorie quondam regis! Anglie Henrici et Gaufredi quondam comitis 
Andegavie et nostra concessisse et presenti carta confirmasse priori et 
conventui sancti Pancracii de Leuwes ecclesiam de Coninggesbourg’ 
cum capellis terris decimis et omnibus ad eam pertinentibus, in proprios 
usus perpetuo possidendam ; illud nobis et successoribus nostris in eadem 
reservantes quod nos et successores nostri ad presentacionem mon- 
achorum in eadem ecclesia instituemus vicarios presbiteros successive 
qui nobis et successoribus nostris de spiritualibus respondebunt, et 
dicti monachi illi quem vicarium instituerimus vicariam xv marcarum 
assignabunt. Confirmamus eciam eis ecclesiam de Wakefeld’ cum 
capella terris et decimis et omnibus ad eam pertinentibus et in eadem 
ecclesia sexaginta solidos nomine pensionis ; ecclesiam de Deuwesbyry 
cum capella de Hertesheued’ et omnibus pertinenciis suis et in eadem 
quatuor marcas nomine pensionis; ecclesiam de Majori Sandale cum 
omnibus ad eam pertinentibus et in eadem dimidiam marcam nomine 
pensionis ; ecclesiam de Hetefeld cum capella de Thorne et omnibus 

1 Anc. Deed AA.463 (S.R.S., i, 21); see no. 33 above. 

2 Chartulary, ff. 23, 30V (S.R.S., i, pp. 41, 55). 

3 Ibid., £. 25 (S.R.S., i, 46). 

+ vege, MS. 


108 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


pertinenciis suis et in eadem quadraginta denarios nomine pensionis ; 
ecclesiam de Minori Sandale cum capella de Hayreldesthorpe et omnibus 
pertinenciis suis et in eadem dimidiam marcam nomine pensionis ; 
ecclesiam de Herthill’ cum omnibus pertinenciis suis et in eadem duas 
marcas nomine pensionis; ecclesiam de Fischelake cum omnibus 
pertinenciis suis et in eadem viginti solidos. nomine pensionis; in 
capella de Edelington’ decem solidos nomine pensionis; in ecclesia de 
Birton’ sexdecim solidos et quatuor denarios nomine pensionis; in 
ecclesia de Donington’ dimidiam marcam nomine pensionis. Con- 
- firmamus eciam dictis monachis decimas de omnibus dominiis comit[is] 
Warrennie ubicumque fuerint in diocesi nostra tam de denariis quam 
piscariis molendinis et omnibus aliis undecumque provenientibus sicut 
carte dictorum comitum testantur; decimas quoque de Gresebroch 
de Dalton’ de Henrithorp de Ravenesfeld’ de Clifton’ de Warmesworth 
de Friseby de Butterbusc et de decimis de Roderham duas marcas et 
dimidiam et de decimis de Cusseword octo solidos; terram eciam de 
Trumflet’ et de Wilsik’ et cetera omnia que in presenciarum possident 
vel in futuro juste poterunt adipisci, salva in omnibus Ebor[acensis] 
ecclesie dignitate. Ut autem hec nostra concessio rata et firma im- 
posterum perseveret sigillum nostrum ad hujus rei testimonium 
apposuimus et ipsam concessionem auctoritate pontificali et sancte 
Ebor[acensis] ecclesie confirmamus. Hiis testibus,. Petro de Dinant, 
archidiacono Ebor[acensi], magistris Hennerico! et Millone, canonicis 
Beverlacensibus, Radulpho de Wikecote, Johanne de London’, Ricardo 
de Thurre, Willelmo de London’, Jordano de Scroby, et multis aliis. 


The first witness, who appears to have taken his name from Dinan in 
Britanny, and was elected bishop of Rennes before August 1199, shows 
that the extreme limits of date are 1194-99, with the probable limits of 
1196-98, his appointment to the archdeaconry of York by archbishop 
Geoffrey in 1194-95 having been a cause of dispute with the chapter.? The 
next two witnesses occur as mag. Milo and mag. Haymericus, canons of 
Beverley, in an original charter, 1190-1210.3 

A confirmation in the same terms, with trifling differences, mostly in 
spelling, was issued by archbishop Gray on 28 March 1221.4 Of the places 
mentioned Edlington was a member of the Percy fee; no further record of 
this pension seems to be known.5 No mention is made of any pension to 
the priory from the church of Rotherham, which in 1291 is recorded as 
li. 6s. 8d., and in 1309 and 1534-35 as 1li. 13s. 4d.;° it may be, however, 
that this latter sum was represented by the 24 marks for the Rotherham 
tithes mentioned here. 


61. Confirmation by pope Celestine III of the authority given by 
pope Alexander III to Lewes priory to apply the fruits of the 
church of Conisborough and its chapels, possessions and tithes, 
to the uses of the priory guests. 25 April 1197. 


Pd. in Reg. Corbridge, Surtees Soc., i, 47, from the register of arch- 
bishop Corbridge, f. 33. 


1 vyecte Heimerico. ? Y.A.J., xxxvi, pp. 425-6. % E.Y.C., ii, no. 1102. 
+ Reg. Corbridge, i, 49; text in full pd. in Reg. Gray, p. 325. 
5 Fasti Parochiales, Y.R.S., i, 106. © fbid.; 1, 37; 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 109 


Celestinus episcopus servus servorum Dei dilectis filiis Willelmo 
priori et monachis sancti Pancracii de Leuwes salutem et apostolicam 
benediccionem. Pie vacantibus hospitalitatis officio et sub monastica 
degentibus disciplina apostolicum libencius impertimur assensum, 
maxime cum ea postulant que suscepte religionis continent honestatem 
et hospitalitatis noscuntur officio pertinere. Pervenit siquidem ad 
audienciam nostram dilectis filiis Petro et Simone monachis vestris 
significantibus apostolatui nostro quod ecclesiam de Conigbourgh’ cum 
capellis possessionibus decimis et aliis pertinenciis suis de auctoritate 
felicis recordacionis Alexandri pape predecessoris nostri in usus hospi- 
tum convertistis et fructus provenientes ex ipsis eorum necessitatibus 
statuistis imperpetuum applicandos. Nos igitur constitucionem ipsam 
prout in autentico dicti predecessoris nostri plenius continetur ratam 
habentes ecclesiam ipsam cum predictis et aliis pertinenclis suis, sicut 
ea de concessione ipsius predecessoris nostri canonice possidetis, vobis 
et per vos ecclesie vestre ad usus hospitum confirmamus et presentis 
scripti patrocinio communimus. Nulli igitur [etc.]. Dat[um] Laterani 
vij kal. Maii pontificatus nostri anno sexto. 


62. Grant by Hamelin earl de Warenne and countess Isabel to 
Lewes priory that the monks’ men of the fens should be quit of 
carrying service beyond Well Stream towards Conisborough 
-or Wakefield, provided that they performed it on the return 
journey as far as [Castle] Acre or Methwold [Norfolk]. 

[1164-89] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 24V.! Translation in 
S.iw5., 4,44) abst..in YA a J.,,.290d, (294, 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Hamelinus comes de Warenn[a] 
et Ysabel comitissa uxor mea concedimus et confirmamus Deo et sancto 
Pancracio et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus ut homines sui de 
marisiis liberi sint et quieti de nobis et heredibus nostris in perpetuum 
de averagio quod solebant nobis facere ultra Wellestrem versus Cun- 
ingeburgh’ vel Wakefeld, ita tamen ut averagium quod solebant nobis 
facere in redditu faciant usque Acram vel Molewold. Hec omnia 
facimus pro salute domini nostri Henrici regis Angl{orum] et pro 
salute nostra et animabus antecessorum nostrorum. Test[ibus], etc. 


63. Gift by Hamelin earl de Warenne to Lewes priory of all his 
‘cultura’ lying between the fields of Conisborough and Denaby 
called Rauenescroswong. [c. 1166-1189] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp..F. xv, f. 25.2 Translation in 
SRS A445; abstain Y Af. exxd; 294, 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Hamelinus comes de War- 
[enna] dedi et concessi et hac carta mea confirmavi Deo et sancto Pan- 
cracio de Lewes et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus totam culturam 


1 Numbered 


2 Numbered 


ths. etc: 


110 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


meam que interjacens est campis de Cuningeburg et campis de Den- 
ingebi! que anglice vocatur Rauenescroswong, in liberam et puram 
et perpetuam elemosinam, pro salute anime domini Henrici regis 
Anglorum et pro salute anime mee et pro salute anime uxoris mee 
Ysabelle comitisse Warenn[ie] et pro salute Willelmi filii et heredis 
mei et pro animabus omnium heredum et antecessorum meorum. 
Hiis testibus, etc. 


The mention of the grantor’s son William, afterwards the sixth earl, 
indicates a later year than 1164 as the earliest limit of date. 

By a charter printed below (no. 124) Robert son of Matthew Brito of 
Denaby gave to Lewes priory the ‘cultura’ with the same name adjoining 
the fields of Conisborough; and it is likely that the present charter was 
issued on the same occasion. A consideration of the word ‘cultura,’ and its 
significance, based on twelfth-century Lincolnshire charters, is given by 
Professor Stenton in the introduction to his Danelaw Charters, pp. lvi-lviii. 
In the present charter, as in examples there cited, the equivalent of the 
‘cultura’ and the English ‘wong’ (or ‘wang’ as in no. 124, an original) is 
apparent. The name Raven’s cross is, perhaps, associated with Raven the 
father of William son of Raven, who was the third earl’s sheriff of Wakefield 
(see no 31) 


. 
4 


64. Gift by Hamelin earl de Warenne, with the consent of countess 
Isabel his wife and of William their son and heir, to Lewes 
priory of all the tithe of his eels in Yorkshire; for the souls of 
Geoffrey count of Anjou, his father, of king Henry his brother, 
of William [third] earl de Warenne, father of countess Isabel, 
of all the earls de Warenne his antecessors, of Ala countess de 
Warenne, and of all the countesses de Warenne; the tithe not to 
be farmed or sold, but the eels to be taken together to Lewes 
priory for the use of the convent. [1189-1202] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 26. ? Translation in 
S.R.Sa 4, 48; abst. in’ YsA./., xxxi)/ 295. 


Notum sit universis tam presentibus quam futuris quod ego 
Hamelinus comes Warenn[ie], consensu et voluntate Ysabel comitisse 
uxoris mee et Willelmi filii et heredis nostri, dedi concessi et hac carta 
mea confirmavi Deo et sancto Pancratio et monachis nostris Deo apud 
sanctum Pancratium servientibus plenarie totam decimam anguillarum 
mearum in Eboraci cyra. Et ideo volo ut eam habeant libere et quiete 
absque omni diminucione, in puram et liberam et perpetuam ele- 
mosinam, pro anima Gaufr[idi] comitis Andeg[auorum] patris mei et 
pro anima regis Henrici fratris mei et pro anima Willelmi comitis 
War[ennie] patris Ysabel comitisse uxoris mee et pro animabus omnium 
comitum War[ennie] antecessorum meorum et pro anima Ale comitisse 
War[ennie] et omnium comitissarum War[ennie]. Volo igitur et precipio 
quod hec donacio et concessio mea rata sit et stabilis et sigilli mei 


1 The heading has . . . totam culturam swam que est in campis de Cun- 
ingesburgh’ et aliis campis. 


2 Numbered = 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 111 


apposicione eam confirmavi, ita quod predicta decima nulli in firmam 
detur nec ulli vendatur sed omnes anguille simul deferantur in domum 
Latisaquensem ad proprios usus conventus. Hiis testibus, etc. 


65. Confirmation by Isabel countess de Warenne of the grant made 
by Hamelin earl de Warenne, her husband, to Lewes priory of the 
tithe of his eels in Yorkshire, which he had made with the 
consent of William de Warenne, her son, and with her good- 
will. [1189-1202] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 34.1 Translation in 
Suni So 1b GS sabst. im by aif mxxd 295. 


Notum sit universis tam presentibus quam futuris quod ego 
Ysabel comitissa Warenn[ie] concessi et confirmavi concessionem quam 
Hamelinus comes Warennie vir meus fecit monachis nostris Deo et 
sancto Pancratio apud Lewes servientibus de decima anguillarum 
suarum in Eboraci sira, quam concessionem ipse Hamelinus comes 
Warenn[ie] vir meus fecit predictis monachis consensu Willelmi de 
Warenna filii mei et mea voluntate; et eam sigilli mei apposicione 
roboravi. Hiis testibus, Burnello de Meinillo, Rad[ulfo] de Castello, 
Reginald[o] de Boys, Roberto Aguyllun, Nicholao de Lanes, Willelmo 
de Lines, Roberto Picot clerico, Hamone clerico, Regin[aldo] clerico 
comitis, Willelmo Hurteuent. 


Countess Isabel issued another confirmation to the same effect evidently 
aiter earl Hamelin’s death (no. 87). 


66. Confirmation. by William de Warenne, son of earl Hamelin, 
of his father’s grant to Lewes priory of the tithe of his eels in 
Yorkshire. [1189-1202] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 26.2 Translation in 
SiS 0 40s abst. in Yul] .p Ke Zoo: 


Notum sit universis tam presentibus quam futuris quod ego 
Willelmus de Warenn[a] filius Hamelini com[itis] War[ennie] concessi 
et confirmavi concessionem quam Hamelinus comes Warenn[ie] pater 
meus fecit monachis nostris Deo et sancto Pancratio apud Lewes 
servientibus de decima anguillarum suarum in Eborac[i] syra, quam 
concessionem ipse Hamelinus comes pater meus fecit predictis monachis 
consensu Ysabel uxoris sue et matris mee et mea voluntate; et eam 
sigilli mei apposicione roboravi. Hiis testibus, etc. 


67. Confirmation by Hamelin earl de Warenne to the Hospitallers 
of whatever land William son of Morcard had given them, and 
whatever they could acquire in his fee in Yorkshire. 

[1164-c. 1185] 


Pd. in Proc. Soc. Ant. of London, 2nd Ser., vi, 133, from the original 
then (1874) belonging to the manor of Newland, near Wakefield. 


1 Numbered = 


2 Numbered —= 


112 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Notum sit omnibus presentibus et futuris quod ego Hamelinus 
comes Waren[nie] concedo et karta mea confirmo sancte hospitali 
Jerosolim[e] et fratribus ibidem Deo servientibus in liberam et per- 
petuam elemosinam quicquid Gvillelmus filius Morcardi de terra sua 
eis dedit et quicquid in feudo meo de Ebor[aci]sir[a] adquirere poter- 
unt salvo servicio meo. Testibus, Rad[ulfo] de Pleiz, Adam de Pun- 
inges, Gvillelmo filio Godrici, Petro de Ikebof, Rad[ulfo] de Cain[eto], 
Gvillfelmo] de Steiuill, Petro decano, Paulino, Adam, Henr{ico], 
Ric[ardo] de Refha[m], Robferto] filio Gerb[erti], Gvill[elmo] de 
Cuningebr[oc], Math[eo] de Horber[i], Henr[ico] filio Leising, Rob- 
[erto] Grafard, Gvill[elmo] filio Rauen, Suein filio Hug[onis], Johanne 
filio Paulini, Rad[ulfo] filio Rad[ulfi] de Pleiz, Johanne filio Dauid de 
Crigelestun’, Gileberto cler[ico], Adam de Horberi. 


Seal: reddish-white wax ; round, c. 24 1n. without legend; equestrian, 
a shield bearing an escarbuncle of eight rays in the left hand; legend broken 
away. Counterseal: oval, 1 x %in.; a gem, a face in profile ; >] P[ER]LEGE 
LECTA TEGE.? 

The third witness William son of Godric, ancestor of the FitzWilliam 
family, who was living in 1182, was dead in 1194.? It is unlikely that another 
witness William son of Raven, who had been sheriff of Wakefield in the 
time of the third earl in the period 1138-47 (no. 31), was living later than 
1185.3 As Ralph de Plaiz and his son Ralph both witnessed, the charter 
was probably issued late rather than early within the limits assigned.* 
Another witness Henry son of Leising can be identified as Henry de Eland 
(no. 135). 


68. Gift by Hamelin earl de Warenne to Matthew de Horbury and 
his heirs of 6 bovates of land in Dewsbury, which David the 
priest had held, and 40 acres of assarted land belonging thereto ; 
rendering 20s. yearly. [1164-c. 1185] 


MS. Dodsworth Ixii, f. 42V, from the evidences of Sir Francis Wortley 
in 1637, Carlton box, no. 39. 


Notum sit omnibus tam presentibus quam futuris quod ego 
Hamelinus comes Warenn[ie] dedi et concessi Matheo de Horebiry vj. 
bovatas terre in Dewesbery quas Dauid sacerdos tenuit et? quatraginta 
acras de sartis pertinentes ad predictas vj. bovatas terre sibi et heredibus 


1 Asin the pd. text. The seal and counterseal are evidently the same as 
to no. 76—B.M. Cat. of Seals, no. 6319, where the legend on the latter is 
given aS. ..E :!LEGE: A TEGE : But it is likely that the seals are also the 
same as to a charter of earl Hamelin to the abbey of Saint-Bertin at St. 
Omer; seal: round, 75 mm., equestrian; > SIGILLVM : HAMELINI : COMITIS : 
DE SVRREIA; counterseal: round, 22 mm., buste coiffé, tourné a senestre; HK 
PER LEGEM ET PRO LEGE (Haigneré, Les Chartes de Saint-Bertin, i, no. 325, 
from a transcript of the original). 

2 E.Y.C., iii, 336; Baildon and the Baildons, i, 350. 

3 See the introduction to the Neufmarché fee in Chapter III. 

+ They occur together as witnesses to a charter dated 29 Aug. 1185 
(Lewes Chartulary, f. 121V; S.R.S., ii, 53); and cf. the account of the early 
generations of the Plaiz family in Complete Peerage, new ed., x, 537. 

5 et qui, MS. ; the latter word evidently in error, and apparently marked 
for deletion. . 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 113 


suis ; tenendas de me et heredibus meis in pace et libere pro omni servicio 
pro xx. s[olidis] annuatim reddendis. His testibus, Radulfo de Pleiz, 
Adam de Puninges, Willelmo filio medici, Petro de Kikebof, Radulfo 
de Cain[eto], Willelmo de Stayuill, Willelmo de Merc’, Ricardo de 
Refham, Radulfo de Beaumont. 


The same limits of date can be assigned to this charter as to the pre- 
ceding one, six witnesses being common to both. An account of the Horbury 
family, of which the grantee, who was dead in 1196, was the principal 
representative, will be given in Chapter IV. The fourth witness, who occurs 
in the preceding charter as Peter de Ikebof, probably took his name from 
Criquebeuf, dept. Seine-Inférieure, arr. Le Havre, cant. Fécamp. 


69. Gift by Hamelin earl de Warenne to Matthew de Horbury 

and his heirs of 42 acres of land of his forest between the vill 

of Horbury and the stream flowing by the forest; rendering 

7s. yearly. | [1164-96] 

MS. Dodsworth lxii, f. 18¥, from the evidences of Sir Francis 
Wortley, Shitlington box, no. 38. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Hamelinus comes War [ennie] 
dedi et concessi et hac presenti carta! mea confirmavi Matheo de Orib’a 
et heredibus suis pro servicio suo xl.® et ij.#8 acras terre de foresta mea 
que sunt inter villam de Orib’a et rivum qui fluit juxta forestam, ten- 
endas de me et de heredibus meis libere et quiete; reddendo annuatim 
mihi et heredibus meis septem solidos ad tres terminos, scilicet de 
qualibet acra denarium.” His testibus, Henrico Pich[ot], Reginaldo de 
Bosco, Henrico de Elond, Adam de Crikelest[on], Ricardo de Elond, 
Elia filio Essulf, Adam filio Philippi, Hugone capellano, Willelmo de 
Lyuet, Paulino de Sandala, Regin[aldo] hujus carte scriptore.® 


Although the dates assigned: give the extreme limits, the charter was 
probably issued late in the period, for Adam son of Philip, a nephew of the 
grantee and one of the witnesses, was living in 1208 (see the Horbury section 
in Chapter IV). The last witness was also the writer of the next charter, 
which in view of the grantee and of some of the witnesses, including Thomas 
son of Matthew de Horbury, is of much the same date. 


70. Gift by Hamelin earl de Warenne to Pain the water-bailiff of 
3 acres of land capable of yielding a profit and an acre of meadow 
in the vill of Thorne, which had belonged to Huck; rendering 
134d. yearly. [1164-96] 


MS. Dodsworth viii, f. 234, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Hamell[inus] comes Waren- 
[nie] dedi et concessi et hac presenti carta mea confirmavi Pagano 
marario tres acras terre wainabilis et unam acram prati in villa de 


1 charta, MS., which is not in Dodsworth’s hand, but in that of an 
assistant. Dodsworth has a marginal note: Foresta Orbirt. 

2 duos denarios would be expected. 

3 Dodsworth gives a note of a white seal, man on horseback with 
sword drawn. 


114 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Thorna que fuerunt Hucke pro servicio et humagio suo, tenendas de 
me et heredibus meis libere et quiete; reddendo annuatim mihi et 
heredibus meis xiij. denarios et u[num] ob[olum]. His testibus, Henrico 
Pich[ot], Radulfo de Friuilla, Willelmo filio Rand[ulfi], Matheo de 
Orbera, Thoma filio ejus, Reginaldo de Bossco, Roberto filio Gerbode, 
Bardulfo Futupo, Hugone de Polingtun, Galfrido de Burneham, 
Hugone filio Galfridi, Hugone capellano, Reginaldo presentis carte 
scriptore. 
The grantee witnessed nos. 76, 85 in the period c. 1198-1202. A charter 
of his son, making a gift which included these 3 acres, is printed at no. 130. 
Matthew de Horbury was dead in 1196. As his son Thomas also witnessed, 
and as the writer of the charter was the same as in no. 69 this charter was 
probably also issued late in the period assigned. | 


71. Grant by Hamelin earl de Warenne to the abbey of St. Mary, 
York, of 30 breams yearly at three terms in the year, directing 
that the ‘custos’ of Sandtoft [co. Lincoln] should send them 
to the abbey at the said terms. [1174-78] 

Pd. in Mon. Ang., ii, 618, from the original in the Hatton library. 
MS. Dodsworth Ilxxvi, f. 121, being a stray folio of a chartulary 
of St. Mary’s, York. ! 

Notum sit omnibus tam presentibus quam futuris quod ego 
Hamelinus comes Warenn[ie] concedo Deo et ecclesie sancte Marie de 
Eboraco et monachis ibidem Deo? servientibus xxx. breisnas singulis 
annis habendas ad tres terminos, scilicet ad Annunciationem beate 
Marie et ad Assumptionem et ad Nativitatem ejusdem gloriose virginis 
Marie, in perpetuam elemosinam pro salute anime mee et pro anima 
patris mei et comitum Warrennl[ie] predecessorum meorum, ad ser- 
viendum in loci ejusdem conventum. Testibus hiis, Radulfo de Pleiz, 
Dod[one] Bardolf, Roberto Pichenot® constabulario de Tikehill, Henrico 
Pichot constabulario de Conigbroc, Jordano filio Aissolfi constabulario 
de Wakefeld, Otone de Tilly senescallo comit[is] de Conigbroc, Hugone 
capellano comitis,4 Hugone clerico de Heitf[eld], Roberto de Ros- 
seuill. Et quod custos de Santoft debet mittere predictas breisnas ad 
conventum ad prefatos terminos. | 


Robert Pikenot, who was connected with Hampshire,° was farmer of the 
honour of Eye for the year ending at Michaelmas 1172, retaining the farm to 
Easter 1173.© At Michaelmas 1176 he occurs as bailiff of the honour of Tick- 
hill, rendering account for its farm for two years.7 Pleas heard before him as 
an itinerant justice in Yorkshire were recorded at Michaelmas 1177, when 
he was still farming the honour of Tickhill,* where he was succeeded as 
farmer by Easter 1178.9 The extreme limits of his connexion with Tickhill, 


Damaged; see no. 30 above. 2 Omitted in Dodsw. 

Pachenot, M.A. 

comitis omitted in M.A. 

Pipe Roll 15 Hen. II, p. 156. 

Ibid. 18 Hen. II, p. 38; 19 Hen. IT, p. 132. 

Ibid. 22 Hen fl, po2d. 

Ibid. 23 Hen. II, pp. 73, 86-7. 

Ibid. 24 Hen. II, p. 76; for the six months to Easter his nephew had 
accounted on his behalf. 


womarntiaw ewe 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 115 


where as bailiff of the honour he evidently held the constableship of the 
castle, were therefore Michaelmas 1174 to Easter 1178; and this period can 
be assigned for the present charter. 

Sandtoft is in the isle of Axholme, just over the border from Yorkshire, 
c. 6 miles from Thorne.! Roger de Mowbray confirmed to St. Mary’s, York, 
the isle called Santoft with fisheries, land and pasture, and made gifts for 
the use of the monk of Santoft.? 


72. Confirmation by Hamelin earl de Warenne to Nostell priory 
of the mill of Harlington, and also of 4 acres of land and a toft 
of an acre which Henry Picot had given as an easement of the 
mill; to hold of the grantor and his heirs, and of all men especially 
of the heirs of Elias de Bosville. [1164-c. 1180] 


Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, f. 58 (old p. 131). 


Notum sit omnibus tam presentibus quam futuris quod ego 
Ham[elinus] comes Warenn[ie] concessi et hac presenti carta con- 
firmavi ecclesie sancti Oswald[i] de Nostla et canonicis ibidem Deo 
servientibus molendinum de Herlingtona cum omnibus pertinenciis 
suis scilicet cum secta tocius multure quod prius habere solebat in 
liberam et perpetuam elemosinam. Confirmo etiam predicte ecclesie 
quatuor acras terre et unum toftum de una acra que Henricus Picot 
dedit eisdem canonicis ad asiamentum illius molendini. Volo igitur 
causa Dei et pro salute anime mee firmiter precipio quod hanc pre- 
nominatam elemosinam teneant bene libere honorifice quiete de me et 
heredibus meis et de hominibus omnibus et nominatim de heredibus 
Helie de Boseuill.’ Hiis testibus, etc. 


The mill of Harlington was given by Elias de Bosville, 1148-52 (no. 100), 
and confirmed by the fourth earl, 1154-59 (no. 51). Henry Picot’s gift of land 
is printed at no. 103, in which he also confirmed the mill. The present con- 
firmation of earl Hamelin was probably issued about the same time. Henry 
Picot was constable of Conisborough in the period 1174-78 (no. 71); and 
although he was probably living late in the period ante 1196 (no. 69) he 
probably made the gift mentioned in the present charter shortly after the 
death of Elias de Bosville and not later than c. 1180. But the absence of 
witnesses prevents any corroboration of this. 


73. Confirmation by Hamelin earl de Warenne to Nostell priory 
of a bovate of land [in Barnborough] which William the miller 
had held of the priory, after the inheritance of Elias de Bosville 
should be delivered from Henry Picot and Lettice his wife. 

[1164-c. 1180] 


Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, f. 58 (old p. 131). 


Notum sit omnibus tam presentibus quam futuris quod ego 
Hamel[inus] comes Warennie concessi ecclesie sancti Oswaldi de 
Nostla et canonicis ibidem Deo servientibus unam bovatam terre quam 

1 See the account in Tomlinson, Hatfield Chace, p. 232. 


2 Mon. Ang., iii, 617. For its administration with the cell of Henes 
see the note to no. 30 above. 


116 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Willelmus molendinarius tenuit de eisdem canonicis cum omnibus 
pertinentibus ad eandem terram postquam hereditas Helye de Boseuill’ 
liberabitur de Henrico Picot et Leticia uxore sua. Testibus, etc. 


The gift of this bovate had been made by Elias de Bosville, 1148-52 
(no. 100), and confirmed by the fourth earl, 1154-59 (no. 51). The last clause 
presents a difficulty as the bovate was included in the confirmation issued 
by Henry Picot and Lettice his wife, who was evidently the daughter and heir 
of Elias de Bosville (no. 104 and note to no. 103). It may be that the present 
charter was issued prior to that confirmation, and that any possessory 
right which Lettice retained was to be preserved during her life or until 
such a confirmation should be issued. It will be noticed that Henry Picot 
issued two confirmation charters (nos. 103, 104), one in which the bovate was . 
not mentioned, and the other with Lettice his wife in which it was included. 


74. Gift by Hamelin earl de Warenne and Isabel countess de War- 
enne, his wife, with the assent of William de Warenne their 
son, to the chapel of St. Philip and St. James in their castle of 
Conisborough of 50s. yearly from their mills in the vill of 
Conisborough. [1180-89] 


MS. Dodsworth cxxvii, f. 150. Pd. in Hunter, South Yorkshire, 1, 
107, from Hopkinson’s collections. 


Ego! Hamelinus comes Waren[nie] et Ysabella comitissa Waren- 
[nie] uxor Hamell[ini] comitis Warenn[ie] cum favore et assensu Willel- 
mi de Warrenn[a] filii et heredis nostri dedimus concessimus et hac 
presenti carta nostra confirmavimus in puram et perpetuam et liberam 
elemosinam Deo et sancte Marie matri Domini? et sanctis apostolis 
Philippo et Jacobo et capelle eorundem apostolorum que sita est in 
castello? de Kunningburg Ls.4 annuos? in villa de Kunningburg de mol- 
endinis nostris recipiendos, etc. Hanc autem donacionem fecimus pro 
amore Dei et pro salute animarum nostrarum et pro salute regis Henrici 
domini et fratris mei et® pro salute anime Galfridi comitis Andegavien- 
sis et pro salute omnium antecessorum et successorum comitum et com- 
itissarum Warrenie et comitum et comitissarum Andegaviensium. 


75. Gift by Hamelin earl de Warenne, countess Isabel his wife and 
William their son to each of their free burgesses of Wakefield 
of a toft of one acre of land in their town of Wakefield, to hold in 
free burgage for 6d. yearly, free from all customs of sale and 
purchase throughout all their lands of Yorkshire; and grant of 
dead wood in their wood of Wakefield for burning. For this 
the burgesses gave to earl Hamelin 100s. sterling, to countess 
Isabel 20s., and to William 20s. [1188-1202 5; ? c. 1190-95] 


B.M. Lansdowne MS. 972, Bishop Kennett’s Collections vol. 
<kxvaii, te 92. 


1 Nos, Hunter. 

2 Dei, ibid. 

3 nostvo added ibid. 

* In arabic, Dodsw. 

5 annuatim, Hunter. 
6 From et to the end omitted in Dodsw. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 117 


Notum sit omnibus tam presentibus quam futuris quod ego 
Hamelinus comes Warrenne et ego Isabella comitissa Warrene uxor 
dicti Hamelini et ego Willielmus de Warrenne filius dictorum Hamelini 
comitis et Isabelle comitisse Warrenne dedimus et concessimus et per 
hanc presentem cartam nostram confirmavimus liberis burgensibus 
nostris de Wakefeld videlicet singulis eorum unum toftum de una acra 
terre in burgo nostro de Wakefeld illis et heredibus eorum, tenendum 
de nobis et heredibus nostris in libero burgagio pro sex denariis red- 
dendis annuatim nobis et heredibus nostris de singulis toftis liberum 
pro omnibus consuetudinibus de venditione et emptione per omnes 
terras nostras de Eborac[isira]. Concessimus etiam illis quod habeant 
et capiant in nemore nostro de Wakefeld mortuum boscum ardere. 
Et ideo volumus et precipimus omnibus hominibus et ministris nostris | 
quod permittant predictis burgensibus nostris hanc libertatem bene 
et in pace habere absque omni impedimento. Et ut hoc ratum 
sit et stabile sigillorum nostrorum appositione confirmavimus. Et pro 
hac donatione concessione et confirmatione dederunt predicti burg- 
enses nostri mihi Hamelino comiti Warenne centum solidos esterlingorum 
et michi Isabelle comitisse Warrenne viginti solidos esterlingorum 
et mihi Willelmo de Warren[ne] viginti solidos esterlingorum. Hiis 
testibus, Regin[aldo] de Manneriis, Roberto de Aguill[un], Willelmo 
de Lecherbi, Nicolao de Lane, Gilberto fratre ejus, Waltero de Nevill, 
Willelmo de Levitt, Thoma de Horiba, Hugone de Elanda, Willelmo 
de Horiba, Sansone de Widlesford,! Hugone de Sinnula,? Thoma de 
Thornton, Thoma Grasford,? Jordano de Littum, et multis aliis. 


Thomas de Horbury, the eighth witness, who is presumably Thomas 
son of Matthew de Horbury (see no. 70), had not succeeded his father before 
1188.4 The second and fourth witnesses occur in a charter of countess Isabel 
1189-1202 (no. 65); and the era of Samson de Wridlesford is about the same 
(no. 139). The position in the list of William de Livet suggests that he had 
not yet become steward (see no. 76). The limits of date can, therefore, per- 
haps be narrowed to c. 1190-95. 


76. Grant by Hamelin earl de Warenne, with the assent of Isabel 
countess de Warenne his wife and of William de Warenne their son 
and heir, to the priory of St. Katherine, Lincoln, of free entry 
and exit along his causeway called Cowbridge for 40 beasts to his 
pasture in his moor towards Thorne, and of pasture for 40 beasts 
in the said pasture among the beasts of his men of Hatfield. The 
canons had granted him two beds for the infirmary of the hospital 
and 300 masses in the first year of this gift and 1000 psalters, 
and had made him a participant in all the benefits of the order of 
Sempringham; as their charter bore witness.  [c. 1198-1202] 

PLATE XVI 
Original charter, Harley Ch. 43 C. 14. 


1 yecte Wridlesford. 

2 query vecte Sandala. 

3 query Graffard; cf. Robert Grafard in no. 67. 
4 See the Horbury section in Chapter IV. 


118 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Hamelinus comes Warenn[ie] 
assensu et uoluntate Isabelle comitisse Waren[nie] uxoris mee . et 
Willelmi de Waren[na] filii et heredis nostri intuitu caritatis et pro 
salute anime mee . et pro anima domini Henrici regis Anglie . et pro 
anima comitis .G. Andeg[auorum] . patris mei . et pro animabus 
comitum et comitissarum Andegau[orum] . et comitum et comitissarum 
Cenomanens[ium] . et pro animabus comitum et comitissarum 
War[ennie] . qui decesserunt . et pro animabus omnium antecessorum 
meorum . concessi et hac presenti carta mea confirmaui Deo et canonicis 
et fratribus et pauperibus hospitalis sancte Katerine Lincolnie . quod 
habeant liberum ingressum et regressum per calcetam meam que 
uocatur Cubrige quadraginta aueriis suis usque in pasturam meam 
que est in mora mea uersus Thorn . inter Hutholmes de Glunes et 
Thorn et inter dictam Cubrige et fossetum quod uadit de Lindholm 
usque in aquam de Thorn . et ut habeant pasturam quadraginta aueriis 
suis in predicta pastura . inter aueria hominum meorum de Heitfeld’ . 
quorum communa est. Et dicti canonici non debent habere aliquid in 
boscis nec in aquis . nec in pasturis nec in mariscis meis preter pasturam 
quadraginta aueriis illorum quam illis in nominata pastura caritatiue 
concessi. Et ut hec mea concessio et confirmatio rata et stabilis et in- 
concussa imperpetuum permaneat . sigilli mei appositione cartam istam 
corroboraui. Et dicti canonici concesserunt mihi pro salute anime mee . 
et pro anima Henrici regis Angl[ie] . et pro anima .G. comitis Andegau- 
[orum] patris mei . et pro animabus comitum et comitissarum Ande- 
gau[orum] . et comitum et comitissarum Cenomanensium . et pro anima- 
bus comitum et comitissarum Waren[nie] qui decesserunt . et pro 
animabus omnium antecessorum meorum habere duos lectos in- 
firmitorio hospitalis Lincoln[ie] . et tres centum missas primo anno 
huius donationis . et mille psalteria . et participem me fecerunt de 
omnibus beneficiis que fiunt in toto ordine de Semplingham . et de altis 
beneficiis sicut carta illorum quam ab illis habeo testatur. Hiis testibus . 
Willelmo de Liuet’ tunc senescallo . Thoma de Horebir’ . Reg[inaldo] 
filio Elie . Waltero de Daneuell’. tunc constabulario Anselmo de 
Neelet’ . Anselmo de Glanuill’ Henrico capellano Henrico de Marisco 
Pagano marario . Rogfero] Walur . Ric[ardo] Ostur . Hamone . Willelmo 
. Johanne clericis meis . et multis aliis. 


Endorsed: Cart[a]. 
Fragment of equestrian seal, and of counterseal, an antique gem." 


After the earl’s death countess Isabel issued a charter to the priory? 
adding easements for a further 20 beasts (no. 85). That charter was witnessed 
by no less than ten of those who witnessed the present one, and cannot have 
been much later in date. It is probable, therefore, that earl Hamelin issued 
this charter shortly before his death in 1202; and possibly it recorded a death- 
bed gift. William de Livet was his steward in 1198 (no. 158). 


1 B.M. Cat. of Seals, no. 6319; and cf. no. 67 above. 

2 A noteon the hospital or priory, which was of the order of Sempringham, 
is given in Reg. Antiquissimum, Lincoln Rec. Soc., ii, 41, with two charters 
relating to it; for a charter of Henry II in its favour see 7b7d., i, 120. 


PLATE XVI 


oe ete te Asha uk ale Cl Goa 
5 Siic'aek chro Specht 7% a 
Ss oftals aa a ic aes 


Seon a 7 a 


| Fagal § mer ise : 


ope Tay it Ace weap ie Sua bee ore 
Sere cof paren : ave et e he Wr 
ae wer i ee zee SeAlal oncih 

eee 


0. 76 Size 7 by 63 in. 


PLATE XVII 


— —. 


Pras " See Pg ee a ln i siete teatime 


~ 


Sed 


our raAy puapad eG 4 “OpwLLSD-OLLO “MUTE, 2g JIU : forapuagny by pb nny £ pouajad austanols 


Pease th. Oke 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 119 


Of the places mentioned Lindholme is in the middle of Hatfield moor;} 
the name Glunes is preserved in that of Clownes to the west of it;? and 
Cowbridge occurs in a later record. 


77. Gift by Hamelin earl de Warenne to Lewes priory of 24 hides 
of land in Ovingdean [Sussex]. [1166-79] 
PLATE XVII 


Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15414. Lewes Chartulary, 
f. 24V (without witnesses),* translation in S.R.S., i, 44. 


Nouerint presentes et futuri quod ego Hamelinus comes de 
Warenn[a] . dono . concedo . et hac presenti carta mea confirmo Deo 
et sancto Pancratio . et monachis ibidem Deo seruientibus in liberam 
et perpetuam elemosinam duas hidas terre et dimidiam in Ouingedene . 
liberas et quietas . et solutas ab omnibus consuetudinibus et exactioni- 
bus . et omnibus rebus et seruitiis. Et ego adquietabo eas de meo 
proprio uersus regem et uersus omnes homines de omnibus rebus. Hanc 
donationem et confirmationem facio pro salute mea et uxoris mee et 
liberorum meorum . et pro animabus patris mei et matris mee . et 
omnium antecessorum meorum. His testibus . Reginaldo de Warenn{a] . 
Radulfo de Pleiz . Rogerio de Clero . Simone de Petraponte . Adam 
de Puninges . Wille!mo filio Reginaldi de Warenn[a] . Willelmo dapifero 
. Willelmo Peiteuin . Radulfo clerico domini Regin[aldi] de Warenn{a] . 
Ric[ardo] camberlengo . Pagano clerico . Willelmo Peiteuin iuniore . 
Ricoardo filio Hunfichel . Radulfo canonico . Willelmo nepote Aldredi. 


Tag for seal which 1s missing. 
Endorsed : vi. E. iij. 


The earlier limit of date is due to the mention of the grantor’s 
children, and the later to that of the first witness. 

Countess Isabel issued a charter, presumably on the same occasion, 
confirming this gift of her husband; hiis testibus, Reginald[o] de Warenn[a], 
Rad{ulfo] de Pleiz, Rogero de Cler’, Simone de Petraponte, Adam de Puning’, 
Willelmo filio Reginfaldi} de Warenn{a], Willelmo dapifero, Willelmo 
Peiteuin’.> 


78. Settlement of the dispute between Theobald abbot of Cluny 
and Hamelin earl de Warenne relating to the appointment of the 
prior of Lewes, with proviso for the procedure in case of further 
disputes ; in the presence of the king. At Nottingham. 

24 Aug. 1181. 


Pd. in Bibliotheca Cluniacensis (reprint, Macon, 1915), col. 1446, 
from Cluny charter no. 211. 


1 An account of it is given by Hunter, South Yorkshire, i, 196; and 
Tomlinson, Level of Hatfield Chace, p. 227. 

2 Map in Tomlinson, facing p. 83. 

3 Ibid., p: 62. _ 

+ Numbered z= 

> Chartulary, f. 34V (S.R.S., i, 66). 


120 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Noverint! universi ad quos presens scriptum pervenerit quod 
controversia que erat inter Theobaldum abbatem Clun[iacensem] 
et Hamelinum comitem Warenne de priore substituendo in monasterio 
sancti Pancratii de Lewes in presentia domni Henrici regis Anglie hoc 
modo quievit anno ab Incarn[atione] Domini MCLXXxIJJ.” apud Not- 
hingeham in die festivitatis sancti Bartholomei, presentibus Hugone 
Dunelmensi, Gaufrido Elyensi, Joanne Norwicensi, Safredo Cecestrensi 
episcopis et Joanne electo Ebroicensi, magistro Waltero archidiacono 
Oxenefordensi, Ranulpho de Glanuille, Ric[ardo] comite Clarens[i], 
Reginaldo? de Curten[ai], Gilberto* Pipard, [?] videlicet® conventus 
Lewenens[is] et predictus comes mittent nuncios suos ad abbatem et 
conventum Clun[iacensem] propter priorem habendum, abbas vero et 
conventus priorem mittent idoneum qui in jam dictum monasterium 
sine contradictione et molestia recipietur. Comes vero si infra subse- 
‘quens quinquennium de dignitate quam sibi vendicat in prefato 
monasterio agere voluerit abbas super hoc stabit judicio. Si vero idem 
comes exinde contra abbatem experiri noluerit ipse et abbas ponent se 
super x. legaliores monachos de Lewes qui in hac re suspecti non 
fuerint et super x. legaliores monachos de Cluniaco et quod ipsi ad- 
jurati in periculo ordinis sui et sub interminatione anathematis exinde 
dixerint ab utraque parte observabitur. Prior autem qui in monasterio 
sancti Pancratii de Lewes substituetur inde non amovebitur nisi justa 
et rationabilis causa intervenerit. 


_ This document which gives a link in the history of the disputed question 
of the method of appointing priors of Lewes is comparatively little known. 
It will be noticed that no mention is made of the priors of Cluny and La 
Charité, specified as the exceptions in the agreement of 1201 (no. 79); and it 
has been suggested that it was from that agreement that the clause on this 
point in the supposed charter of the first earl was composed (see Appendix D 
above). 

It is clear that the date 1182 is a mistake, for in August of that year the 
king was out of England. It is recorded that he sailed from Cherbourg to 
Portsmouth on 26 July 1181, and before crossing gave the bishopric of 
Evreux to John son of Luke, his clerk; and that before September he was at 
Nottingham, where there were present Hugh bishop of Durham, John 
bishop of Norwich, Geoffrey bishop of Ely, and Seffrid bishop of Chichester.°® 
It can be assumed, therefore, that the correct date is 24 August Lisi: 


79. Agreement to settle the dispute between Hugh abbot of Cluny 
and Hamelin earl de Warenne, made in the presence of Isabel 
countess de Warenne and William her son and heir, by which the 
procedure for the appointment of future priors of Lewes was 
regulated ; no exaction from the priory to be made by the abbot 
except a payment of 100s. yearly. At Lambeth. 10 June 1201. 


1 Modern spelling is adopted here, with extensions in brackets. 
2 Sic; but certainly a mistake. 

3 Reignaldo, as pd. 

4 Gilbertus, as pd. 

5 Vicec., as pd.; but Pipard was not a sheriff at the time. 

6 Gesta Henrici, i, pp. 277-8, 280; and cf. Eyton, Itinerary, p. 241. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 121 


Pd. in Duckett, Charters and Records of the Abbey of Cluni, i, 92,1 
from the original tripartite chirograph (two portions) in 
Collection de Bourgoyne, vol. lxxxi, nos. 285, 286, in the 
Bibliothéque Nationale; abst. in Cal. Docs. France, no. 1403, 
from the same. Also pd. in Close Rolls, 1234-37, p. 192, from 
Close Roll, 19 Henry III, m. 5d. 


In nomine Patris et Filii et Spiritus Sancti Amen. Sciant tam 
presentes quam futuri quod cum orta esset contentio inter dominum 
H[ugonem] abbatem Cluniacensem et H[amelinum] comitem Waren- 
nie? super nominatione et institutione prioris Lewensis tandem medi- 
antibus domino H[uberto] Cantuariensi archiepiscopo et. domino 
E[ustachio] Elyensi episcopo et domino G[alfrido] filio Petri tunc 
justiciario Anglie de assensu utriusque partis, presente domina Y[sab- 
ella] comitissa Warennie? in cujus hereditate fundata est domus Lewen- 
sis et tam illa quam W[lillelmo] filio et herede suo consentiente, sopita 
est eadem contentio postquam diu duraverat in hanc modum : Vacante 
prioratu Lewensi cum nunciis comitis Warennie? duo monachi Lewen- 
ses mittentur Cluniacum infra quindecim* dies postquam contigerit 
prefatum prioratum vacare; abbas autem Cluniacensis cum consilio 
sui conventus bona fide et secundum conscientiam suam nominabit 
duos de ordine Cluniacensi quos magis idoneos crediderit ad ad- 
ministracionem domus Lewensis tam in spiritualibus quam in tempor- 
alibus exceptis duobus, scilicet majore priore Cluniaci et priore Kari- 
tatis ; in optione autem nunciorum comitis erit de duobus nominatis ab 
abbate ibi assumere quem maluerint; qui eis sine dilatione tradetur in 
priorem Lewensem deducendus ad comitem et ecclesiam Lewensem 
et ab illis suscipiendus honorifice et sine difficultate. Prior autem, sic 
institutus per manum abbatis et ut dictum est a nunciis comitis assump- 
tus, liberam habebit administrationem in spiritualibus et temporalibus 
interius et exterius tam in instituendis quam in amovendis suppriore 
domus illius et prioribus cellarum® et aliis obedienciariis et ministris 
ad eandem domum pertinentibus; ita quod non poterit amoveri nisi 
meruerit ex manifesta et rationabili causa secundum regulam beati 
Benedicti. Preterea abbas Cluniacensis non exiget de predicta domo 
nisi centum solidos nomine census annui nec aliquam ibi faciet exaction- 
em; salva autem erit ipsi abbati Cluniacensi plene dignitas sua et 
auctoritas in disciplinis correctionibus® et aliis spiritualibus ad ordinem 
Cluniacensem pertinentibus. Hec autem omnia utraque pars bona 
fide et sine malo ingenio firmiter observabit in perpetuum. Acta sunt 
hec apud Lamehe[dam] anno Incarnationis Dominice MCCI. quarto idus 
Junii coram predictis mediatoribus et per illos ; presentibus et testibus : 
dominis W[illelmo] Londoniensi et G[ilberto] Roffensi et H[erberto] 
Saresberiensi et M[algero] Wigorniensi et J[ohanne] Norwicensi epis- 
copis ; et M[artino] de Certesia et de Boxlee et de Fulger[iis]’ abbatibus 


1 This text (D) is followed here, with dating and witness clauses as 
meGDF. 

2 Warenna, D. 

3 Warenne, D. 

4 xt, Close R, evidently in error; fifteen days is given by Ralph de 
Diceto describing the agreement (Rolls Ser. ed., ii, 173); 

5 cellavariis, Close R, in error. 

6 corveptionibus, ibid. 7 Blanks for their names marked in D. 


122 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


et de Coventr’ et de Dovor’ prioribus ; comite Rogero Bigot; Hugone 
Bardulf; Willelmo Briwere; Roberto filio Rogeri; Galfrido de Say; 
Willelmo de Warenne; Huberto de Burgo camerario domini regis; 
Radulfo de Plaiz’; Roberto de Pereponte; Ricardo Aguillon; Roberto 
filio ejus; Waltero de Wancy; Philippo de Burneham; Waltero de 
Grantcurt, et multis aliis. 


Six slits for seals. 


In the same collection are a letter of archbishop Hubert Walter and the 
bishop of Ely, with the mandate of pope Innocent III describing the nature 
of the dispute in full (dated 31 May 1200), in which the archbishop and 
bishop recorded their action taken; a second letter recording the further 
action which led to a peaceful settlement; and one from the convent of 
Lewes to the prior and convent of Cluny dated 19 June 1201.1 The charges 
against the earl were that after the abbot of Cluny had appointed a prior 
to Lewes, he had oppressed the priory and its possessions for about five years. 
The pope and the archbishop with his fellow delegates supported the abbot 
by ordering obedience to his nominee, master Alexander. The settlement 
was reached through the king’s intervention, when the abbot had come to 
England and the earl’s land had been placed under interdict by reason of 
his further hostilities. 

The settlement of 1201 was not accepted at Cluny as a satisfactory or 
final arangement. On 25 Oct. 1228 pope Gregory IX, in answer to the 
supplication of the abbot of Cluny, granted him a faculty to appoint to the 
priory of Lewes notwithstanding the composition between earl de Warenne, 
the patron, and one of the abbot’s predecessors thirty years earlier, which 
the pope described as ‘juri contrariam et ecclesie ipsi damnosam,’ and as 
giving occasion to the prior and convent of Lewes to rebel against the church 
of Cluny.?, Subsequently William earl de Warenne appealed to the pope; 
and in 1234 the agreement of 1201 was read before the king, the archbishop 
of Canterbury, the bishops of London and Exeter, and many others, when 
it was recorded that the earl, desirous of establishing the right which he 
and his predecessors had in the appointment of the prior of Lewes, and 
which they had exercised many times in accordance with the said agreement, 
had appealed to the apostolic see.3 

Another reference to the agreement in its financial aspect is made in a 
papal mandate to the archbishop and archdeacon of Canterbury, 6 Feb. 
1239-40, on the earl’s petition, stating that his ancestors had founded and 
endowed the priory, where a hundred monks were living and exercising 
hospitality, and that the abbot and convent of Cluny under pretext of spiritual 
jurisdiction made inroads on the priory’s property, so that H{amelin] 
the earl’s father and I[sabel] his mother made an agreement that the abbot 
should be content with 100s. yearly from the priory; as the archbishop and 
archdeacon, under pretext that the papal letters bidding them to cause all 
monasteries of that order in England to pay a tenth of their revenues for 


1 Duckett, loc. cit., pp. 87, 95, 99... A summary of this dispute and 
settlement is given in V.C.H. Sussex, ii, 65; but no reference is made to the 
earlier agreement of 1181 (no. 78 above). 

2 Full text in Duckett, Joc. cit., ii, 186; abst. in Cal. Papal Letters, i, 119. 

> Close Rolls, 1234-37, pp. 192-3. For subsequent disputes over appoint- 
ments to the priory see V.C.H. Sussex, ii, pp. 66-9. 


Shae * 


rh; Geen 


PRuUAL Ravi 


| >: Gory Saye R. Aoychyiy. Sar Fy y- - Senne f F Mando 
“oh oy Fo pend loner fd jenn or 
Sle x Ppa tend z dlemo{ ind mea a 5 Aieefloay en SRE 
ee tee oe 


te 


| 


No. 80 on 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 123 


three years to the abbey of Cluny made no mention of the agreement, were 
exacting the tenth from the priory, the pope ordered them to cease from 
doing so until further orders.} 


80. Request by Hamelin earl de Warenne to R[?obert] archdeacon 
of Surrey and to P. the [rural] dean to allow the prior and canons 
of Southwark to hold in peace his alms and that of his ‘anteces- 
sores,’ namely the chapel of Newdigate. [1164-86] 

PLATE XVIII 
Original charter, Cotton MS. Nero C. ii, f. 188 (inlaid). Pd. 
in Madox, Formulare p. 49, and Watson, Memoirs, i, 164. 

.H. com[es] Waren[nie] . R. archid[iacono] Surr[eie] et .P. decano 
sal[utem]. Mando uobis atque precor quatenus dimittatis priorem et 
canonicos sancte Marie de Suwrch’ in pace tenere elemosinam meam 
et antecessorum meorum scilicet capellam de Niudegat’ . et priori 
interdico ne inde placitum intret sine me . quia predictam elemosinam 
eis garentizare debeo. 


Seal missing. 
Endorsed ®: Karta Hamelini com’ de Waren’ . de capell’ de Neudeg’. 


The later limit of date is based on the assumption that the archdeacon of 
Surrey was Robert de Inglesham, who is so described as witnessing a charter 
of Henry bishop of Winchester not later than 1170 and another apparently 
as early as 1159 (Salter, Oxford Charters, no. 18 and note); he occurs as an 
archdeacon in 1167 (Pipe Roll 13 Hen. II, p. 8, Berks. roll); and became 
archdeacon of Gloucester before Feb. 1186-7 (Ramsey Cartulary, Rolls 
eer,, 1, 121). 

Earl Hamelin was a considerable benefactor of Southwark priory. With 
Isabel his countess ‘pro animabus regum Anglie Willielmi primi et secundi 
et Henrici et omnium suorum, et pro anima patris etc. comitis Andegavie, 
et pro animabus comitum Warenne Willielmi primi, secundi et tertii, et pro 
anima Gundrede comitisse et Hisabelle comitisse, et pro salute Henrici 
regis secundi. . .’ he confirmed the church of Crechesfeld [Reigate] with 
the church of Becheswurd [Betchworth] and the church of Leghe {Leigh, 
Surrey]; and gave 10 acres of their demesne on the east side of the priory 
church near the churchyard, in exchange for their burgage in his vill.? 
Countess Isabel, also, with the assent of earl Hamelin and of William, their 
son and heir, ‘pro animabus Henrici regis fratris domini mei et Galfridi 
comitis Andegavensis patris domini mei et matris domini mei et fratrum 
suorum, et pro animabus Willielmi comitis patris mei et omnium aliorum 
comitum Warennorum,‘ et pro animabus Willielmi, Patricii et Philippi 
fratrum meorum,’ et pro anima Ale matris mee et aliarum comitissarum 
Warennarum” gave 107 acres of land.® 


I 8h Se Es he ae dn es wea ae ne lr rl 
1 Cal. Papal Letters, i, 186. 
2 In an early hand; also, in a later one, a cross between the letters 
h uw g o, and on either side mu and se. 
3 Mon. Ang., vi, 172. 
4 Rectius Warennie. 
5 These were her half-brothers; see p. 13 above; the date is later than 
the death of the first of them, William earl of Salisbury, in 1196. 
6 Watson, Memoirs, i, 163. 


124 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


81. Gift by Hamelin earl de Warenne to Robert de Combe and his 
heirs of a virgate of land and a mill called Sidlow mill [in Horley, 
Reigate hundred, Surrey]; to hold in fee farm, rendering 22s. 
yearly and giving an aid if the earl should take one from his free 
men. [1180-1202] 

PLATE XIX 


Original charter, B.M. Add. Ch. 24635. 1 


Sciant vniuersi tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Hamelinus 
comes Warennie? dedi et concessi et presenti carta mea confirmaui 
Roberto de Cumba et heredibus suis unam virgatam terre que fuit 
Ailnod de Cumba cum pertinentiis suis . et quoddam molendinum quod 
vocatur Sideluue melne cum omnibus pertinentiis suis tenend[a] de 
me et heredibus meis in feodo firma libere et quiete ab omnibus seruitiis 
vilenagiis pro . xxij. solidis . reddendis annuatim mihi et heredibus 
meis per tres terminos . videlicet in festo sancti Michaelis . vij. solidos . 
et .ilij. denarios . et in festo purificationis beate Marie . vij. solidos . 
iiij. denarios . et in Pentec[osten] . vij. solidos . et .iiij. denarios. Et si 
contingat quod auxilium capiam de liberis hominibus meis . memora- 
tus Robertus mihi auxilium dabit cum aliis liberis hominibus meis 
secundum tenementum suum. His testibus . Willelmo de Warenn{[a] . 
Adam de Puninges . Rad[ulfo] de Pleiz . Rad[ulfo] de Hangeltun’ . 
Hugone de Liuet capellano comitis . Mauritio de Occeleia . Rogero de 
Lund’ Willelmo de Wara . Hugone de Horsheia . Willelmo de Pirel’ . 
Rad[ulfo] de Trueleia. 


Seal missing. 


It is uncertain whether the first witness was the grantor’s son or, as 
is more likely, William de Warenne of Wormegay; but in either case 1180 
can be taken as the earlier limit of date. A charter of countess Isabel to the 
grantee’s son is printed at no. 86. 


82. Notification by Hamelin earl de Warenne that with the assent of 
William his son and heir he had received from king Richard I 
the vill of Thetford [Norfolk] in exchange for all his land in 
Touraine, namely at Coulommiers, Ballan and “‘Chamberi,’ the 
yearly value of the exchange being based on the sum of 35/. 

[July 1190-Sept. 1191] 


Liber Niger Parvus, Exch. K.R., Misc. Bks., ser. i, vol. 12, f. 80. 
Pd. in Liber Niger Scaccari1, ed. Hearne, p. 371. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Hamelinus comes Warrenn{ie] 
assensu et voluntate Willelmi filii et heredis mei recepi a domino meo 
rege Angl[ie] Ricardo primo escambium tocius terre mee quam habui 
in Toronia, scilicet de Columbar’ et de Balan et de Chamberi? cum 
omnibus pertinenciis suis, pro villa sua de Theoford’ cum pertinenctis 


1 An abbreviated text is pd. in Watson, Memoirs, i, 166, from the 
original then in the same ownership as no. 86. 

2 Written in full. 

3 Coulommiers, now Villandry, between Tours and Langeais; and 
Ballan, s.w. of Tours. Chamberi has not been identified. 


PLATE XIX 


sg PA 


; re CRN EEE fade 
tile Oe ie ee ‘ur & % 
ieee ee es is oF ur Fh Aq $$ 9218 


fay es eae ecies se adva, : 


on Ay eee an 


S fi tet. EAN Ie ) 

mh skee ppealraa pps Were 
baa 2 Aw PRE gt wr 6 
oe es g aed 


Fagie jee ae aye 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 125 


suis, ita tamen quod si predicta villa de Theoford cum pertinenciis suis 
valeat per annum plus quam triginta quinque libras sterlingorum quod? 
ego et heredes mei residuum inde reddemus singulis annis prefato 
domino meo regi Ricardo et heredibus suis ad scaccarium suum 
Angl[{ie]. Si vero prefata villa de Teophord cum pertinenciis suis minus 
valeat per annum quam xxxv. libras esterlingorum illud quod de xxxv. 
libris deerit alibi capiam de dominico regis Ricardi prefati loco com- 
petenti in Angl[ia] ubi ipse mihi assignaverit. Testibus,? Willelmo de 
Longo Campo Eliens[i] episcopo, apostolice sedis legato et domini 
regis cancelllario], Godefr[ido] de Luci Winton[iensi] et Regin[aldo] 
Batton[iensi] episcopis, Galfr[ido] de Lacell’, Hug[one] Bardulf, Willel- 
mo Briwer’, Willelmo de Warenn[a], Adam de Poning.’ 


The earliest limit of date is 5 June 1190, when William de Longchamp 
became legate, and the latest is 26 Dec. 1191, when Reginald, bishop of 
Bath, died. The former date can be put forward to 3 July when Hugh 
Bardolf was still with the king overseas;? and the latter date can be put back 
to Michaelmas 1191, when Hamelin earl de Warenne had been given lands in 
Thetford worth 231i. 19s. 2d. in exchange for Columbar’ and other lands in 
Touraine.t In the following year he was given 11/i. 10d. worth of land in 
Foulsham, Norfolk to complete the exchange,> which made up the balance 
of 35/1. mentioned in the charter. 


83. Sale by Robert de Portmort to Hamelin earl de Warenne, for 
65 marks of silver and 25 pounds Angevin, of all the fee which he 
or his ancestors had held of the earl or his ancestors at Louvetot 
(cant. Bellencombre] with specified exceptions ; which exceptions 
he would hold by rendering yearly 2 gilt spurs worth 12 pence 
Angevin. [1178-1200] 


Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 5923; Cat. Anc. Deeds, iii, 
241. Lewes Chartulary, f. 31;° translation in S. ok, 15.00% 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Robertus de Pormort vendidi 
Hamelino comiti Warennie? domino meo pro LXV. marcis argenti . et 
pro xxv. libris . andegauensium . totum feodum meum quod ego de eo 
tenui vel antecessores mei de eodem comite vel de antecessoribus suis 
tenuerunt apud Louueautuit . cum omnibus pertinentiis . excepto 
capitali masagio meo quod circa duas acras continet . et excepto prato 
justa masagium sito . et exceptis vij.te™ acris terre propinquius ibidem 
sitis . et excepto feodo vnius vauasoris quod dicitur feodum Doudeman. 
Et ego Robertus de Pormort et heredes mei tenere debemus de predicto 

a Ste, -MS. 

2 Teste, MS. 

3 Itinerary of Ric. I, p. 36; earl Hamelin was with the king on 27 June 
(tbid., p. 35). 

4 Pipe Roll 3 Ric. I, p. 33. The sum continues on the Pipe: Koll, ¢.g: 
in 1208 as credited to the sixth earl in respect of this exchange (ibid. 10 
John, p. 2). 

5 Ibid., 4 Ric. I., pp. 179, 180. 

6 Numbered > 

7 In full. 


126 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


comite et de heredibus suis predictum masagium cum predicto prato . 
et vij.e™ acras terre . et predictum feodum vauasoris sicut supra- 
nominatum est libere et quiete . ab omnibus seruitiis et consuetudini- 
bus et auxiliis . pro duobus calcaribus deauratis de xij. denariis andeg- 
[auensium] . reddendis annuatim predicto comiti vel heredibus suis. 
Hiis testibus . Willelmo filio Rad[ulfi] . senescallo Normannie . Roberto 
de Harecort . Willelmo de Martinneio . Adam de Punninges Roberto 
de Mortemer . Willelmo de Lindebone . Hosberto de Marca 
Michaele de Bosco . Warino preposito Belencombrie . Rogero de 
Baumunt. 


Three slits for tags; seals missing. 
Endorsed : vi. F. vij. 


Louueautuit is in all probability Louvetot, dept. Seine-Inférieure, arr. 
Dieppe, cant. Bellencombre, comm. Grigneuseville.| The vendor probably 
took his name from Portmort, dept. Seine-Inférieure, arr. and cant. Neuf- 
chatel, comm. Flamets-Frétils; and not from Portmort, dept. Eure. The 
former is near Mortemer-sur-Eaulne, whence the fifth witness, presumably 
Robert de Mortemer of Attleborough,? took his name. It is possible that the 
vendor can be identified with Robert de Portemort who was enfeoffed by 
Lambert de Scoteni of three-quarters of a knight’s fee in Lincolnshire before 
1166.4 

The first witness became seneschal of Normandy in 1178, and held the 
office until shortly before June 1200.+ 

There seems to be no further reference in the Chartulary to show why 
the copy was entered there; but the endorsement on the original proves that 
it was among the Lewes muniments. 


84. Confirmation by Hamelin earl de Warenne to the abbey of St. 
Victor-en-Caux [dio. Rouen] of the gifts made by his predecessors 
and their men, including the church of Bellencombre and other 
churches, and land and tithes at Bracquetuit [cant. Tétes] and 
several other specified places® in Normandy. [1180-1202] 


Pd. by Stapleton in Arch. Journal, iii, 15n. 


Hamelinus comes Guarenne venerabili Rotomagensis ecclesie 
archiepiscopo et decano ceterisque ejusdem ecclesie personis et omnibus 
hominibus suis Francis et Anglis salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et 
charta mea confirmasse pro salute anime mee et uxoris mee Isabelle 
comitisse et Guillelmi filii mei et parentum et antecessorum nostrorum 
omnes donationes quas Guillelmus de Guarenna et comes Guillelmus 
filius ejus et homines sui dederunt Deo et ecclesie sancti Victoris 
monachisque ibidem Deo servientibus tam in ecclesiis quam in decimis 

1 This and the following identifications are based on letters from L. C. 

Loyd on 23 Sept. 1941 and 7 March 1947; he had examined this charter with 
great care in the light of his extensive knowledge of Norman topography. 

2 See for him Complete Peerage, new ed., ix, 244. 

3 Red Bk. of Exch., p. 386. 

4 For references see Y.A./., xxxvi, 423. 

5 About nine places in all are specified; all of these with one exception 


are included in the list of places in the Norman honour of the earls drawn 
up by Mr. Loyd in Y.A.j., xxxi, pp. 110-1. 


——_— ~=— i aS he 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 127 


tam in terris quam in redditibus et in aliis donationibus scilicet eccles- 
iam de Bellencumbre cum decima eidem pertinente et decimam mol- 
endinorum et thelonei ejusdem ville ... apud Brachetuit terram 
ubi presbyter manet . . . Et ut etiam hec omnia firma et stabilia et 
inconcussa in perpetuum existant sigilli mei et sigilli uxoris mee 
Isabelle comitisse dignum duxi munimine roborari, istos adhibendo 
testes Guillelmum de Guarenna filium meum, Adam de Poninges, 
Guillelmum de Blossevilla, Guillelmum de Greinosavilla, Eliam de 
‘Almeisnil, Hugonem de Bellomonte, Hugonem de Angulo sacerdotem, 
Guarinum sacerdotem de Sancto Audoeno, Gualterum sacerdotem de 
Bosavilla, Guarinum prepositum, Guillelmum des Estaus, Rogerum 
camerarium et Hugonem fratrem ejus et Radulphum prepositum abbatis 
et plures alios. 


A feature of this charter is the allusion to its sealing with the seals both 
of the earl and the countess. The church of Bellencombre, the caput of the 
honour, had been given to the abbey of St. Victor not later than 1137, when 
it was confirmed by Hugh, archbishop of Rouen.! 


85. Grant by Isabel countess de Warenne, for the soul of her husband 
earl Hamelin, to the priory of St. Katherine, Lincoln, of similar 
easements [as in no. 76] for 60 beasts, namely for 40 as of his 
gift and for 20 as of hers. [1202] 

Original charter, Harley Ch. 43 C. 15. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Isabella comitissa Warenn[ie] 
pro salute anime mee . et pro anima domini mei Hamelini comitis . et 
pro animabus omnium antecessorum . parentum et heredum meorum 
dedi et concessi et hac carta mea confirmaui Deo et canonicis et fratribus 
et pauperibus hospitalis sancte Katerine Lincoln[ie] quod habeant liber- 
um ingressum et regressum per calcetam meam que uocatur Cubrigge 
sexaginta aueriis suis . scilicet quadraginta ex dono domini mei .H. | 
comitis . et viginti ex dono meo . usque in pasturam meam que est in 
mora mea uersus Thorn’ inter Hutholmes de Clunes et Thorn . et inter 
dictam Cubrige . et fossetum quod uadit de Lindholm . usque in aquam 
de Thorn . et ut habeant pasturam liberam dictis sexaginta aueriis suis 
in predicta pastura . inter aueria hominum meorum de Heitfeld . quorum 
communa est. Et dicti canonici non debent habere aliquid in boscis . 
nec in aquis . nec in pasturis . nec in mariscis meis . preter pasturam 
sexaginta aueriis illorum quam illis in nominata pastura caritatiue con- 
cessi. Et ut hec mea concessio et confirmatio rata et stabilis et incon- 
cussa imperpetuum permaneat . sigilli mei appositione cartam istam 
roboraui. His testibus domino Huberto priore de Lewlis] . sociis suis . 
Willelmo de Maidinton . Willelmo de Liuet . Thoma de Horesbiri . 
Regin[aldo] filio Elie . Hugone de Hetfelde persona . Anselmo de 
Neelet . Anselmo de Glamuill’ . Henrico capellano . Richerio de Trun- 
chet . Henrico de Marisco . Pagano marario . Rogerio Walur . Ric[ardo] 
Ostur . et aliis multis. 


Endorsed : Cart{a]. 


Seal (damaged) : a lady standing.” 
ote). KNE, Py. 124. 2 B.M. Cat, of Seals, no. 6730. 


128 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


The wording of the pro anima clause, and the fact that the countess 
increased on her own account the easements which had been given by earl 
Hamelin (no. 76), make it clear that it was issued after his death. For the 
reasons given in the note to no. 76 the date is evidently shortly after that 
event. The first witness was prior of Lewes in 1202.! 


86. Gift by Isabel countess de Warenne, after the death of he) 
husband earl Hamelin, to Richard son of Robert de Combe and 
his heirs of a virgate of land and a mill called Sidlow mill [in 
Horley, Surrey]; to hold [as im no. 81]; for which gift the donee 
gave a mark of silver. [1202-03] 

PLATE XX 


Original charter, B.M. Add. Ch. 24634. Facsimile in Watson, 
Memoirs, i, 169, from the original then belonging to James 
Scawen, esq., of Carshalton. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Isabella comitissa War[ennie] 
post obitum domini et viri mei Hamelini comitis Warennie® dedi et 
concessi et hac presenti carta mea confirmaui Ricardo de Cumbes et 
heredibus suis unam virgatam terre que fuit Ailnod de Cumbes et 
Rob[erti] patris eiusdem Ricardi de Cumbes cum pertinenciis suis . et 
quoddam molendinum quod vocatur Sideluue melne cum omnibus 
pertinenciis suis tenenda de me et heredibus meis libere et quiete in 
feodo firma ab omnibus seruiciis vilenagiis . pro .xxij. solidis reddendo 
annuatim predictus Ric[ardus] et heredes sui mihi et heredibus meis per 
tres terminos . videlicet in festo sancti Michaelis .vij. solidos . et 11ij. 
denarios . et in festo purificacionis beate Marie .vij. solidos . et 1iij. 
denarios . et in Pentecosten .vij. solidos et iiij. denarios. Et si contingat 
quod auxilium capiam . de liberis hominibus meis . memoratus Ric- 
[ardus] de Cumbes filius Roberti de Cumbes mihi auxilium dabit cum 
aliis liberis hominibus meis secundum tenementum suum . pro hac 
autem donatione et concessione et carte mee confirmatione dedit mihi 
predictus Ricardus vnam marcam argenti. His testibus . Radul[fo] de 
Plaiz . Roberto de Petraponte . Walt[ero] de Wanci . Ricardo de Cumbe . 
Randulfo de Petraponte . Frar’ de Burneham . Ricardo Ruffin . Ricardo 
de Main’res . Osberto de Marc’ . Radulfo nepote . Henr[ico] capell- 
[ano] . Galfrido capell[ano] . Willelmo de Woham . Elie de Hollie. 
Roberto de molendino . Waltero de Lin[k]Jefeld . Walt[ero] de Colelie . 
Galfrido clerico de Reigate et mulltis aliis. 


Seal: cream; pointed oval, 34 x 2 in.; a lady standing, holding a 
floral device in her right hand and a hawk on her left; . . . [C)OMITISSA 
.ET: [P]MO. . . (top missing).® 
The grantee was the son of the grantee inno. 81. For the suggested date 
of death of countess Isabel see p. 14 above. 


1 V.C.H. Sussex, ii, 69; given as Humbert. He occurs as Hubert in the 
Lewes Chartulary (S.R.S., ii, 118). 

2 Written in full. 

3 B.M. Cat. of Seals, no, 6731. Presumably the same seal as to no. 85 
above. 


PLATE XX 


“ Sal 


( Bi ark kgs Ne ir) a “T5e Nie ba? ott. Lari? Ce 
2 a Sis, t cate aoarte « “Nee fo re sy tant Mea: 181 Scamecell he fall “+: tudes a 


Peet cayram Veli exsf Ahern, ths memos; t Lae, S. 
Nabd ‘ Asrilsuay Vibra cust Ass tks Bowanils of (Sr, © emeiiiaty, * 


dureet an 4 mate 5 o ci ale ndetone Msc 


We Be 
wane Fk ; 


eae tl yen ts se ; 


i ee . = . 


No. 86 Size 74 by 7} in. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 129 


87. Confirmation by Isabel countess de Warenne, with the assent 
of William her son and heir, to Lewes priory, of the tithe of her 
eels throughout all Yorkshire, to be received from her bailiffs 
of Yorkshire by the hand of the monks’ bailiff of Conisborough. 

[1202-03] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS., Vesp. F. xv, f. 34V.!. Translation 
in, SZR;S.,4.66; abst.in.yY Aes axes, 295. 


Noverint omnes hoc scriptum visuri vel audituri quod ego Isabella 
comitissa Warenn[ie], voluntate et assensu Willelmi filii et heredis mei, 
donavi et concessi et hac carta mea confirmavi Deo et sancto Pancratio 
et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus, pro salute anime? domini mei 
Hamelini comitis Warenn[ie] et mee et omnium heredum et successorum 
meorum, totam decimam anguillarum mearum de tota Eboracisira in 
liberam et perpetuam elemosinam, percipiendam a ballivis meis de 
Eboracisira per manus ballivi eorum de Kuningeburg quicumque 
fuerit pro tempore. Test[ibus], Henr[ico] capellano, Gaufr[ido] capel- 
lano, Ragin[aldo] de Bosco, Ric[ardo] de Medmeres, Regin[aldo] 
coco, Suellino et Willelmo Herdheke, Robert[o] portar[io], et multis 
aliis. 

The original gift of earl Hamelin, and contemporary confirmations by 

countess Isabel and their son William, are printed at nos. 64 to 66 above. 
The present charter was presumably issued after earl Hamelin’s death. 


CHARTERS OF THE SIXTH EARL 


This series is a selection of the charters of William the sixth 
earl, who died in 1240, mainly relating to his Yorkshire possessions; 
of these three are originals. It also includes a gift made by Ela his 
sister to Roche abbey of land in Sussex, together with his own 
confirmation. 

Two agreements made by the sixth earl, one with members 
of the Horbury family and the other with John de Thornhill, 
mainly relating to hunting rights in Sowerbyshire, are printed at 
nos. 170-1. 


88. General confirmation by William de Warenne, [sixth] earl of 
Surrey, to Lewes priory. [1203-30] 
Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 15401. Lewes Chartulary, 


Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 26 (without witnesses); 3 translation 
if o.oo ro. 


Nouerint presentes et futuri quod ego Willelmus de Waren[na] 
« mes Surregie filius Hamelini comitis et Isabelle comitisse concessi 
et hac mea carta confirmaui Deo et sancto Pancracio et monachis ibidem 
Deo seruientibus in liberam puram et perpetuam elemosinam omnes 
1 Numbered = 
* anime inserted above the line. 


3. Numbered 2 


130 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


ecclesias . omnes decimas . omnes terras . et omnia tenementa . liber- 
tates et quietancias quas habent de me uel de feudatis meis cuiuscumque 
donationis sint libera soluta et quieta ab omnibus exactionibus et 
demandis et querelis sicut carte donatorum testantur . et sicut comites de 
Waren[na] predecessores mei videlicet Willelmus primus . Willelmus . 
secundus . et Willelmus tercius auus.meus . et Hamelinus pater meus . 
et Issabella mater mea predictis monachis cartis suis concesserunt et 
confirmauerunt. Hiis testibus domino Galfrido de Say . domino Radulfo 
de Clere . Ada de Kaili . Radulfo de Normanvill’ . Willelmo de Lamare . 
Ricardo de Wiharvill’ . Ricardo Branche Widone de Rocheford . Helia 
de Marevill’ . Reginaldo Coc . Hugone de Acra Reinero de Duntun’ . 
Ricardo de Hatvill’ . et multis aliis. 


Sht for tag. 


Endorsed: V. B vij. Carta Willelmi quarti filii Hamelini comitis de 
ecclesus et terris et decimis generalis .. . 


It will be noticed that no mention is made of William son of king 
Stephen, the first husband of the grantor’s mother; and that he is excluded 
in making the calculation of the grantor as the fourth William in the endorse- 
ment. 

The charter was evidently issued after the death of countess Isabel. 
The first witness can probably be identified with the Warenne tenant of that 
name who died in 1230.! 


89. Confirmation by William [sixth] earl de Warenne of the gift 
which Reiner son of William Fleming made to Kirklees priory 
as his charter testified. [1202-c. 1210] 


Original charter, belonging to Sir George Armytage of Kirklees 
(Kirklees Muniments, no. 8). Pd. in Mon. Ang., v, 739; and in 
Y.A.J., xvi, 464 (facsimile facing p. 320). 


Nouerint presentes et futuri quod ego Willelmus comes War- 
enn{[ie] concessi et presentis carte mee testimonio confirmaui donacion- 
em quam Reinerus Flandrensis filius Willelmi Fland[rensis] dedit 
atque concessit sancte Marie de Kirkeleia . et sanctimonialibus ibidem 
Deo seruientibus . in terris . in aquis . in pascuis . in pratis . in siluis . 
et in planis . in puram et perpetuam elemosinam . tenend[am] de eo et 
heredibus suis . prout carta predicti Rein[eri] exinde habita . testatur. 
Hiis testibus . Osberto Giffard . Anker[o] de Freschenvill’ . Willfelmo] 
de Albo Monasterio . Ric[ardo] de Mednar’ . Baldewin[o] de Hersin . 
Thom[a] de Horbyr[i] tunc temporis sen[escallo] meo . Will[elmo] de 
Liuet . Jordan[{o] de Heton’ . Joh[anne] de Pleiz clerico . et multis aliis. 


Cord for seal which 1s missing. 
Anker de Frescheville, the second witness, died in 1218; see Chapter III, 
§2. It can be deduced that Thomas de Horbury held the office of steward 
earlier than the last witness John de Plaiz, who in turn held the office earlier 
than Matthew de Shepley, steward in 1218-19.? It is probable, therefore, 


1H KE Wy oh 
2 See Chapter V. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 131 


that the latest limit of date for this charter and the next is c. 1210,1 a sugges- 
tion which is in conformity with the handwriting of the present one. The 
charter of Reiner Fleming is pd. at no. 145. 


90. Gift by William [sixth] earl de Warenne to Richard de Cartworth 
of 12 acres of land in Wooldale [par. Kirkburton] ; rendering 2s. 
yearly. [1202-c. 1210] 


Pd. in Watson, Memoirs, i, 207, from the original belonging to 
Mr. Uriah Tinker of the Cross near Holmfirth in 1767. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Willelmus comes Warenn{ie] 
dedi et concessi et hac presenti carta mea confirmavi Ric[ardo] de 
Karteword pro homagio et servicio suo duodecim acras terre in Wol- 
vedal cum communi et pastura ad tantam terram pertinent[ibus], 
tenendas et habendas sibi et heredibus suis de me et heredibus meis in 
feodo et hereditate libere et quiete integre et pacifice; reddendo inde 
mihi et heredibus meis annuatim duos solidos ad tres anni terminos pro 
omnibus serviciis et consuetudinibus, scilicet ad Purificationem sancte 
Marie octo denarios et ad Pentecosten octo denarios et ad festum sancti 
Michaelis octo denarios. Hiis testibus, Thoma de Horebir[i] tunc 
seneschallo, Jordano de Heton, Willelmo de Livet, Hen[rico] de Turs- 
taineland, Thoma de Holneherste, Thoma filio Isabell, Roberto de 
Birton, Matheo de Turstaineland, Ric[ardo] fratre suo, Willelmo de 
Livet juniore, et multis aliis. 


Seal: equestrian; and counterseal: a shield of arms, checky. 


At the Domesday survey it was recorded that half a carucate in Wool- 
dale was soke of the manor of Wakefield.” 


91. Letters patent of William [sixth] earl de Warenne, ordering Sir 
Matthew de Shepley, his steward in Yorkshire, and John de 
Wakefield, clerk, to cause the tithes of his rents in their baili- 
wicks to be paid to Lewes priory at the fixed terms. 

[c. 1210-c. 1225] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 27.3 Translation in 
Sdteas eA 


Willelmus comes Warenn[ie] dilectis sibi domino Mattheo de 
Sepellai senescallo suo Ebor[acensi] et Johanni de Wakefeld clerico 
salutem. Mando vobis quatinus in fide que michi tenemini et sicut 
deligit honorem meum nulla obstanti occasione vel superveniente 
mandato faciatis pacare monachis de Lewes decimas reddituum meorum 
in ballivis vestris plene et perfecte ad quoslibet terminos statutos, ita 
quod de cetero nullam habeant molestiam vel gravamen vel inpediment- 
um. Et in hujus rei testimonium vobis mitto meas literas patentes. 
Valete. 


1 Especially as no great interval separated the tenure of office of 
William Livet, steward in 1198, and John de Plaiz; see zbid. 

* See the table in the introductory notes to Chapter IV. 

3 Numbered = 


132 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


It was evidently on the same occasion that the earl sent similar letters 
to William Spriggi, his steward of Gimingham, for the payment of tithe of 
money from his rents in Norfolk.1 Matthew de Shepley occurs as steward in 
1218-19.2 The date when he succeeded to the office is not known; but it 
seems safe to give the approximate limits as above for this charter and 
THe MER, 


92. Quitclaim by William [sixth] earl de Warenne to John de Wake- 
field, his clerk, of a yearly rent of 2s. from his messuage in 
Northgate [Wakefield], with power to give it in frankalmoin. 

[c. 1210-c. 1225] 


Pd.in Proc. Soc. Ant. of London, 2nd Ser., vi, 134, from the original 
then (1874) belonging to the manor of Newland, near Wakefield. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Willelmus comes Warennie 
concessi et quietum clamavi pro me et pro heredibus meis Johanni de 
Wakefeld clerico meo pro servicio quod michi fecit redditum duorum 
solidorum quos ipse annuatim reddidit michi de toto mesagio suo in 
Northgate de quatuor acris terre in quo domus sue site sunt. Et pre- 
terea concessi eidem Johanni quod ipse totum mesagium predictum cum 
domibus et edificiis in eo sitis possit libere et sine omni impedimento 
conferre cuicunque voluerit domui religiose, remansurum eidem 
domui cui illud contulerit in perpetuum liberum et quietum ab omni 
seculari servicio et omni seculari exactione sicut puram et perpetuam 
elemosinam. Et quod® volo quod hec mea concessio et quieta clamatio 
rata sit et stabilis in perpetuum presentem cartam meam sigillo meo 
corroboravi. Hiis testibus, Rogero de Mortuo mari, Eustach[io] de 
Es, Malueisin’ de Hersin et Baldewin[o] de Hersin fratre suo, Heliga 
de Mare villa, Willelmo de Sancto Martin[o], Hugone de Budell’, 
Matheo de Seppelay tunc senescall[o], Godefr[ido] de Bello monte, 
Adam de Sancto Laurent[io], Regin[aldo] Coc, Hug[one] de Acra, 
Johanne de Stanford clerico, Ric[ardo] de Wakering’ clerico, magistro 
Philipp[0] qui hanc cartam scripsit, et pluribus aliis. 


Seal: pendent by four cords of twisted red and white silk, white 
wax, round, c. 23 in. (without the legend); equestrian; legend missing ; 
and counterseal: a shield of arms, checky. 


Eustace de. Es held land in Surrey in 1212;4 and witnessed a Surrey 
charter of the sixth earl in the period 1217-26.5 Some notes on Malvesin 
and Baldwin de Hersy are given at no. 162; the latter was constable of 
Conisborough in 1230 (no. 129). Godfrey de Beaumont was constable of 
Sandal at a time when John de Plaiz, Matthew de Shepley’s predecessor, 
was steward (no. 161). 


+ Chartulary, 1, 26" (S..oaek, oO.) 

2 See Chapter V. 

3 quid, as pd. 

* Bk. of Fees, pp. 66, 68. 

> Watson, Memoirs, ii, 63; the period being that of a deputy-sheriff of 
Surrey who also witnessed. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 133 


93. Gift by William [sixth] earl de Warenne to the priory of St. 
Michael, Stamford, of 40s. of silver yearly from the rent of his 
mill of Wakefield, which he had assigned to the priory kitchen, 
for the celebration of the obit of Elias de Marvile yearly on the 
eve of St. George’s day. [c. 1215-1240] 


Pd. in Mon. Ang., iv, 263. 


Universis sancte matris ecclesie filiis ad quos presens scriptum 
pervenerit Willielmus comes Warenne salutem in Domino. Noverit 
universitas vestra me caritatis intuitu et pro salute anime mee et pro 
animabus patris mei et matris mee et omnium antecessorum meorum 
et successorum meorum et pro salute anime Helie de Marvile! dedisse 
et concessisse et hac presenti carta mea confirmasse in puram et per- 
petuam elemosynam Deo et ecclesie sancti Michaelis de Staunforde et 
monialibus ibidem Deo servientibus quadraginta solidos argenti eisdem 
monialibus annuatim percipiendos de redditu molendini mei de Wake- 
feld ad festum sancti Michaelis quos assignavi ad coquinam predictarum 
monialium ita ut predicte moniales faciant anniversarium predicti 
Elie annuatim in vigilia sancti Georgii. Hanc autem concessionem et 
donationem ego Willielmus comes Warenne et heredes mei warantiza- 
bimus prescriptis monialibus contra omnes imperpetuum; et ut hec 
mea concessio et donatio rata sit et imperpetuum inconcussa permaneat 
presentem cartam meam sigilli mei appositione roboravi. Hiis testibus, 
Johanne de Basyngburne, Radulpho de Normanville, Radulpho de 
Wauncy, Radulpho de Albo Monasterio, Alexandro decano Staun- 
fordie dicto vicario sancti Andree, etc. 


It can be assumed that this gift was not made before 1205, when the 
earl was given Stamford as part of his compensation for the loss of his 
lands in Normandy (see p. 24 above). After the earl’s death in 1240 his 
widow, countess Maud, was ordered in 1242 to continue the payment.? 
Elias de Marvile witnessed no. 88 and also apparently no. 92, which shows 
that he was alive when Matthew de Shepley was steward. It is unlikely, 
therefore, that this charter was issued before c. 1215. 


94. Confirmation by William [sixth] earl de Warenne to Roche abbey 
of all the land of [Upper] Cumberworth which Matthew de 
Shepley had given. [1202-24] 


Pd. in Morehouse, Parish of Kirkburton, p. 100, from an unrecorded 
source. 


Omnibus Christi fidelibus ad quos presens carta pervenerit 
Willelmus comes Warren[nie] salutem in Domino. Sciatis me concess- 
isse et hac presenti carta mea confirmasse Deo et beate Marie et monachis 
de Rupe pro salute anime mee et antecessorum meorum totam terram 
de Cumbrewode cum messuagiis et omnibus pertinenciis quam Matheus 
de Schepelay eis dedit et cartis suis confirmavit, tenendum in perpetuam 
elemosinam secundum tenorem carte Mathei. Hiis testibus, Willelmo 


1 Marnile, M.A.; but cf. no. 88 above. 
2 Close Rolls, 1237-42, p. 477; and cf. p. 247. 


134 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


filio Willelmi, Malveisino de Hersy, Ricardo de Meiners,! Baldewino 
de Hersy, Roberto de Brettvile, Radulfo de Eccleshale, Johanne de 
Wakling clerico, Johanne [de] Wakefeld clerico, Reginaldo Coc. 


The first witness William FitzWilliam died 1219-24 (p. 20” above). 
The land held by Matthew de Shepley in Upper Cumberworth was an under- 
tenancy of the Burgh fee of the manor of Wakefield; see Chapter IV, §1. 


95. Letters patent of William [sixth] earl de Warenne to his water- 
bailiffs of Bradmere, ordering them to cause the monks of Roche 
to have a tithe of the residue of his eels from all his fisheries in 
the parishes of Hatfield, Thorne and Fishlake after the full tithe 
belonging to the monks of Lewes, in accordance with the gift 
which he had made. [c. 1215-1240] 


Original charter, Cotton Ch. xxx, 17. Pd. in Mon. Ang., v, 503, 
from the original in St. Mary’s Tower, York. 


W. comes Warenn[ie] mareriis suis de Brademare salutem. Sciatis 
me karitatis intuitu dedisse Deo et ecclesie . sancte Marie de Rupe et 
monachis ibidem Deo seruientibus decimam de toto residuo meo 
anguillarum mearum de omnibus pischariis meis que sunt in parochiis 
de Heffeld’ de Thorne et de Fislake post plenam decimacionem anguil- 
larum mearum que pertinet ad monachos de Lewes in puram et per- 
petuam elemosinam. Quare mando vobis quod predictam decimam 
eis habere faciatis annuatim sine omni dilacione et occasione. Et in 
huius rei testimonium mitto vobis has litteras meas patentes. Valete. 


Endorsed: Xxv® vicesime tercie t[Phece]; and . . . de W. comf{itte] 
Warenn{ie] de decima . anguillarum. 


The handwriting suggests a date not earlier than the reign of Henry III. 
Part of the dower of the earl’s widow, assigned to her in 1240, consisted 
of the manor and advowson of Hatfield, with certain exceptions in Thorne, 
and excepting the water of Brademar, where, however, she was given fishing 
rights when visiting the manor.? 


96. Gift by Ela daughter of Hamelin earl de Warenne, widow of 

Robert de Newburn’ and William FitzWilliam, to Roche abbey 

of 5 virgates of land in Rottingdean [Sussex], together with 3 

villeins and their sequels. [1219-40] 
Copy in Magdalen College Oxford MSS., Thakeham 4. 3 


1 Memers as pd.; some other amendments correcting misprints have also 
been adopted. 

2 Close Rolls, 1237-42, pp. 202-3. 

3 This and the next charter are the first two of three documents 
transcribed c. 1270-80 on a piece of parchment with a tag for seal, though 
there are no words of tmspeximus; the third document is a copy of the sale 
by Roche abbey to Thomas the dean and the chapter of Chichester, noted 
above. Copies of the first two were entered in the Chartulary of Sele priory, 
and are translated in Mr. Salzman’s edition (Cambridge, 1923), no. 37, to 
which our knowledge of them was primarily due. For the three documents 
see also Chichester Chartulary, Sussex Rec. Soc. vol. xlvi, nos. 413-5, where 
1227-41 is assigned for the sale by Roche abbey. 


CHARTERS OF THE LORDS 135 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis presentibus et futuris Ela 
filia Hamelini comitis Warennie uxor Willelmi filii Willelmi salutem in 
Domino. Noverit universitas vestra quod ego in viduitate mea et in 
ligia potestate corporis mei dedi concessi et hac presenti carta con- 
firmavi ecclesie sancte Marie de Rupa pro salute mea et Willelmi 
filii Willelmi quondam viri mei et Roberti de Neuburn’ primi viri mei 
patris et matris filiorum et filiarum mearum et omnium antecessorum et 
successorum meorum quinque virgatas terre in villa de Rottingeden’ 
cum omnibus libertatibus et aisiamentis ad dictam terram pertinentibus, 
scilicet duas virgatas terre quas Robertus filius Alexandri tenuit et 
ipsum Robertum cum tota sequela sua et cum omnibus consuetudinibus 
ad illas duas virgatas terre pertinentibus, et duas virgatas terre quas 
Aldwinus del Pit tenuit et ipsum Aldwinum cum tota sequela sua et 
cum omnibus consuetudinibus ad illas duas virgatas terre pertinentibus, 
et unam virgatam terre quam Ediua filia Harding tenuit et ipsam Ediu- 
am cum tota sequela sua et cum omnibus consuetudinibus ad illam vir- 
gatam terre pertinentibus. Hec omnia dedi ego Ela abbatie de Rupa in 
puram et perpetuam elemosinam liberam et quietam ab omni servicio 
consuetudine exactione et demanda. Et ego et heredes mei warantizabi- 
mus omnia predicta ecclesie contra omnes. Hiis t[estibus]. 


Details relating to the grantor and her second husband William Fitz- 
William of Sprotborough, who died 1219-24, have been given on p. 20 
above. The land in Rottingdean was sold by Roche abbey to the dean and 
chapter of Chichester, who exchanged it with Sele priory in 1248 for a 
payment towards a chantry in the cathedral.} 


97. Confirmation by William [sixth] earl de Warenne to Roche abbey 
of 5 virgates of land in Rottingdean [Sussex] which dame Ela de 
Warenne, his late sister, had given with her body [for burial]. 


[1219-40] 
Copy [as in no. 96]. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Willelmus comes Warennie 
pro salute anime mee et omnium antecessorum et heredum meorum 
concessi et hac carta mea confirmavi ecclesie sancte Marie de Rupa 
quinque virgatas terre cum pertinenciis in Rottingeden’ quas domina 
Ela de Warennia quondam soror mea dedit dicte ecclesie cum corpore 
suo et carta sua confirmavit, tenendas in puram et perpetuam ele- 
mosinam ut carta ejusdem domine Ele testatur. Hiis t[estibus]. 


The abstract of this confirmation in Chichester Chartulary, no. 414 has 
the addition “saving the fencing of my parks if due from that land.” 


98. Gift by William [sixth] earl de Warenne to God and St. Mary 
and All Saints and brother Paul and the brethren there of the isle 
in the fen of Methwold [Norfolk] called Slevesholme. 

[1222-26] 


Castle Acre Chartulary, Harl. MS. 2110, f. 7. Pd. in Mon. Ang., 
v, 72 from the confirmation of John earl de Warenne in 
1309 in ibid., f. 14. 


" Chartulary of Sele, p. xix and no. 36, 


136 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego WJ[illelmus] comes Warr- 
[ennie] concessi et dedi et hac presenti carta mea confirmavi pro salute 
anime mee et antecessorum meorum et pro salute omnium fidelium 
quandam insulam in marisco de Melew’d qui vocatur Sliuisholm in 
puram et perpetuam elemosinam Deo et sancte Marie et omnibus sanctis 
et fratri Paulo et fratribus ibidem Deo servientibus. Et post obitum 
prefati Pauli ille qui aliis ibidem preerit per me instituetur. Quod ut 
ratum sit et firmum in perpetuum sigilli mei apposicione roboravi. 
Huis t[estibus], Hug[one] Bigot, Osberto Giffard, W. de Stuteuill’, 
Mich[aele] de Puning’, Adfa] de Kaillfeio], Hamf[one] Lenveise, 
Richero de Trunch’t tunc senescallo, Joh[anne] de Plaiz, Reg[inaldo] 
Koc, Hug[one] de Acra, Rob[erto] Walensi, et multis aliis. 


In the next entry the earl requested Pandulf, bishop of Norwich [1222- 
26] and the archdeacon and officials thereof to protect his monks of Castle 
Acre dwelling in the isle of St. Mary of Sliuesholm’ juxta Melewde, which 
he had given them in frankalmoin.' In the account of Slevesholme priory 
in the Monasticon the above charter is assigned to an earlier earl in the 
reign of Stephen;? but earl John described it as issued by his proavus, i.e. 
the sixth earl; and the witnesses are conclusive. 


1 Pd. in Mon. Ang., v, 71, with another letter from the earl to bishop 


Pandulf. Ror s. ; 
2 Also in V.C.H. Norfolk, ii, 359 the founder is given as the third 


earl, and this charter assigned to him, 


. 
eetteeeet® | Teenpoevesere,. 
aed Py de ei eae Sil CS ie ee a 
2109s eee’ ee ee 
° 
fe 
. 
*e 
. 
. 
. 
. 
te 
te 
*e 
Toe, 
*e 


7. 
Se 


“FISHLAKE 


; ¢ THORNE .. 
er Fara © STAINFORTH ! 
es e. : SO UTH °TUDWORTH ‘i 
Some 4 ee BRAMWITH ee 
o[HOOTON |” Ke ee 
PAGNELL] LONG *CSANDAL 
° SANDALS : 
BILHAM * * STREETTHORPE oy 
BARNS « CUSWORTH . Ae 
ARNBOROUGH chia g 
Sts o[DONCASTER ] pees 
P. oSTRAFFORTH. anp _-»LINCOLN- 
° * e - e 
"., HOYLAND ¢ Don WARM SWORTH ats ~ SHAS 
TS, & ~ is ie 
~ °CONISBOROUGH i \, 
; ee i. 
GREASBROUGH * * « CLIFTON oe Ps ? Serpe cers eeu. 
° RAVENFIELD eee ne aa 
: * 2  SN@RINGra ht 
[ROTHER AM | DALTON™ BRAITHWELL rriggcnn.e \ ae SHIRE 
@ BRAMLEY . nk re 
a ie 
WHISTON i 


Wl ¢ Sao, * He HONOUR 
qe en owyworov*} — CONT SBOROUGH 


© e 
ars * ASTON * oo uf 
rane ei wes ay ( as recorded tn the 
Pe Sti oid ¥f) aA e ; Domesda cS. rf) 
we mM KIVETON oy a AG) 
Sot Ws a 
y Ss pe 
, * HARTHILL f° The places marked with 
No ee, ~ Pa eeu 
SOND fo one an asterisk included land 
DERBYSH(RE . is ee 
: eld 6y other tenants -in-chief 


CHAPTER III. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO LANDS OF 
THE HONOUR OF CONISBOROUGH 


There is evidence that as early as the tenth century Conis- 
borough with lands depending on it formed a single estate. Wulfric 
(known as Wulfric Spot), in his will drawn up between 1002 and 1004, 
granted to lfhelm the estate (andes) at Conisborough on condi- 
tion that he arranged that the monks of Burton-on-Trent should 
have each year a third of the fish and he two thirds. Hunter, 
commenting on this, pointed out that there could never have been 
any fisheries of consequence in the Don at Conisborough, while in 
that part of the fee which lay about Hatfield there were very 
extensive fisheries, mention being made in the Domesday survey 
of twenty fisheries at Tudworth ; and he deduced that the lands 
forming Wulfric’s estate of Conisborough were those which are 
recorded in the Survey as the manor of Conisborough with soke in 
twenty-eight places.? Certainly the manor and this extensive soke, 
which were granted to William de Warenne after the conquest, 
were held as an entity by earl Harold in the time of king Edward ; 
and there seems to be no doubt that the estate had been consoli- 
dated long before. 

The Domesday assessments® of the manor and soke of Conis- 
borough, held*by William de Warenne, are as follows : 


Car. bov. Other details‘ 
M_ Conisborough 5 0 church, priest and 
2 mills 

S North Anston, par. South Anston 2 0. 

S Aston 6 

S Aughton, par. Aston 2 

5 Barnborough 6 0 mill 

S Bilham, par. Barnborough 1 0 

S Braithwell 11 0 church and priest 
S Bramley, par. Braithwell 3 0 

S Sand Bramwith, par. Hatfield ° 6 

S Clifton, par. Conisborough 3 0 

S Cusworth, par. Sprotborough 3 0 

S _ Dalton, par. Rotherham 3 0 

S Dinnington 2 0 

) Fishlake 5 0 

S Greasbrough, par. Rotherham _ 3 0 


1 Miss D. Whitelock, Anglo-Saxon Wills, pp. 47, 152. 
2 South Yorkshire, 1, pp. 98-9. 
3 V.C.H. Yorks., ii, pp. 258-9. o 
+ Particulars are given of a total of 120 sokemen, [?] 95 villeins and 82 
bordars.. __ : 
5 Otherwise South Bramwith, in the modern par. of Stainforth. 


138 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Car.  bov. Other details 
S Harthill and Kiveton 13 4 
S Hatfield 8 0 church and priest 
be, Upper and Nether Hoyland, par. 
Wath-upon-Dearne . ] 0 
> Ravenfield 1 + 
5 Kirk Sandal 2 0 church and priest 
~ Long Sandal, nr. Kirk Sandal ] 3 
S  °Stainforth, par, Hatfield 3 0 
~s) Streetthorpe, par. Kirk Sandal 2 0 
> Thorne 4 0 
S Tudworth, par. Hatfield 1 al 20 fisheries render- 
ing 20,000 eels 
= Warmsworth 1 6 
> Whiston 3 0 
S Wilsick, par. Tickhill 15 acres 
90 7 plus 15 acres 


Certain other details are provided. In the Summary, where 
the dependencies of Conisborough are described as berewicks, the 
total is given as 91 carucates, 3 bovates and 15 acres,! showing an 
additional amount of 4 bovates. In the section dealing with the 
Claims the men of the wapentake of Strafforth, in which all the 
places lay, while affirming to the use of William de Warenne his 
6 carucates in Barnborough, his 15 acres in Wilsick which belonged 
to Barnborough, and 2 carucates in Clifton which Roger de Busli 
claimed, affirmed to the king’s use in demesne 4 bovates in Clifton 
which William de Warenne had ; and in several places where the 
soke belonged to Conisborough they said that Nigel Fossard. (one 
of the principal tenants of the count of Mortain) ought to have 
certain small holdings, and a church in [? Kirk] Sandal. Lastly, 
they recorded that Fulk de Lisours had a carucate in Streetthorpe, 
the soke of which belonged to Conisborough.? 

In several places mentioned in the list there was additional 
land held of other tenants in chief ; and this is shown in the follow- 
ing table,? which also gives the total carucage inclusive of the 
Warenne holding : 


tenant in chief car. bov. total carucage 

North Anston R. de Busli 10 0 12 
Aston c. of Mortain z v4 3 
Aughton a 2 6 3 
Barnborough R. de Bush 2 0 
Bilham . 4 0 15 

re: c. of Mortain o4 0 
Braithwell W. de Perci 1 0 12 
Cusworth 4 R. de Busli 1 0 4 
Dalton Wo de Perci 2 6 52 


IVC By Ors... eae. 

2 Tbid., p. 294. 

3 Some of the details are the allocations of combined holdings made by 
Farrer in his annotations in the Summary for the wap. of Strafforth (zbzd., 
pp. 298-9); e.g. R. de Busli’s 6 car. in Barnborough and Bilham as 2 and 4 car. 
respectively, and W. de Perci’s 1 car. in Braithwell of his holding of 34 car. 
in Edlington, Braithwell and Doncaster. 

* R. de Busli had 8 car. in Sprotborough, Cusworth and Balby, and 
the King 1 car. in Sprotborough ; a total of 12 car. for the three places. 


LANDS OF THE HONOUR 139 


tenant in chief car. bov. total carucage 
Dinnington _’ R. de Busli 4 0 6 
Greasbrough a 3 0 6 
Hoyland fe . 2 0 34 
se King 4 
Ravenfield ! R. de Busli 3 4 5 
Long Sandal c. of Mortain 6, 5 8 
Warmsworth - 1 0 22 
Whiston 5 0 8 


>”? 


The combined evidence of the two tables shows that in the 
total assessments of the vills three carucates and their multiples 
predominated, and supports in a convincing way the six-carucate 
unit which Round assigned to the Danish districts.? It is even 
tempting, having regard to the map, to notice that the combined 
assessments of the Warenne holdings of Fishlake and Thorne, and 
of Hatfield and Tudworth, each add up to a total of 9 carucates. 

_ There is; unfortunately, no record of any carta returned by 
earl Hamelin in 1166 to show the number of knights’ fees which 
had then been created in the honour of Conisborough and the 
manor of Wakefield. Indeed, earlier than the Yorkshire returns of 
1242-43 there is very little evidence to show the details of land 
which was held by knight-service. 


These returns give the following information : 
Feoda de Honore Comit[is] Warann|ie] 
Adam de Novo Mercato tenet in Barneberg’ et Bilham unum 
feodum. 
Idem Adam tenet in Wermeswrth’ unum feodum. 
Radulfus de Frescevill’ tenet in Custewrth’ dimidium feodum. 
In Waleton’, Skelflay, Schepelay, Dalton’, Quermeby, Bret- 
ton’, Thurstanland et Cumberwrth’ unum feodum de 
_eodem honore. 
_ Summa iij. feoda et dimidium.® 
This total is particularly small ; and it must be deduced that 
the bulk of the Yorkshire lands was held in socage or fee-farm.’ 
The first three items refer to lands of the honour of Conisborough 
which were held by knight-service; and the numbers §1 for the 
Neufmarché fees and §2 for the Frescheville fee have been assigned 
to them below. The last item refers to lands of the manor of Wake- 
field and will be considered in Chapter IV. 
So far as the knight-service due to the crown is concerned, 
in respect of the honour of Conisborough and the manor of Wake- 
field, the evidence is disappointing. Farrer, in his examination of 


1 This holding was in ‘Grimeshou’ [in Ravenfield] ; and can be identified 
as the two-thirds of Ravenfield, held apparently. of the honour of Tickhill 
in 1284-85 (Feudal Aids, vi, 2). 

2 Feudal England, pp. 89, 88. 

> Bh. of Fees, p. 1101. 

+ Cf. H.K.F., iii, 308. In 1284-85 it was returned that John de Moring 
and Peter de Rodes held the vill of Moring [Morthen in Whiston] of John 
earl de Warenne for } k.f. (Feudal Aids, vi, 4). Morthen is not mentioned in 
the Domesday survey, though 3 car. in Whiston were soke of Conisborough. 
It must be supposed that the returns of knights’ fees in 1242-43 were in- 
complete, or else that a feoffment was made subsequently. 


140 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


the lands of the honour taken as a whole, suggested the possibility 
that owing to the relationship of the later earls to the crown ‘no 
demand in respect of fees of new feoffment was ever made against 
them, nor does it appear that they were called to account precisely 
for aids and scutages, like other barons. They simply paid in gross 
the contribution due from 60 knights’ fees’; and he pointed out 
that in 1172 and for more than a century afterwards the scutage 
of the honour was always based on that amount.1 The question 
of primary importance for the present purpose is whether this 
amount of service due to the crown included the lands in York- 
shire. It is not until the reign of Edward III that any record 
appears to be available to show the amount of service due for these. 
It was recorded in 1347, in the inquisition held after the death of 
the eighth earl, that the castle and manor of Conisborough and the 
castle and manor of Sandal with Wakefield were held of the king 
in chief as of the crown by the service of 2 knights’ fees.2 There 
is no reason to suppose, although evidence is lacking, that this was 
not the service by which these lands had been held from the 
twelfth century onwards. A return in 1212 gives the total holding 
of the sixth earl throughout England as 62 knights’ fees ; and it 
has been tentatively suggested above that this total includes 2 
knights’ fees for Conisborough and Wakefield in addition to the 
usual 60.2 But it would be desirable to obtain other evidence to 
support the suggestion. In an inquisition held on 7 March 1326-7, 
recording the holdings of Thomas earl of Lancaster, including all 
the Warenne lands in Yorkshire which he had acquired as.a result 
of his quarrel with John de Warenne, the eighth earl, and which 
he had retained until his death in 1322, it was stated that in addi- 
tion to the service of 2 knights’ fees by which the castles of Sandal 
and Conisborough with their members were held, the manors of 
Hatfield, Thorne and Fishlake were held in chief by the service of 
a knight’s fee. In view of the ancient association of these manors 
with the honour of Conisborough this additional assessment is 
difficult to understand ; it may have been a temporary one, in- 
dependent of the conditions of service by which the earls de- 
Warenne held their Yorkshire lands at an earlier and a later time. 


§1. THE NEUFMARCHE FEES 


In 1242-43, among the fees of the honour of earl de Warenne 
in Yorkshire, Adam de Novo Mercato held a knight’s fee in Barn- 
borough and Bilham, and another in Warmsworth;° and at the 
same period John de Neumarche or Novo Mercato, evidently his 
son, held a knight’s fee of old feoffment of the fee of earl de 
Warenne in Carlton [Scroop], co. Lincoln.® 

1 H.K.F., i, 304. 

2 Cal. Ing. p.m., ix, no. 54, p. 48; and cf. ibid., no. 102. A record of 
doubtful validity giving 6 fees ‘de Wakfeld’ will be noticed in pas LV 

See p. 24 above. * Cal. Ing. p.m., vii, no. ns 
-> Bk. of Fees, p. 1101 ; and see above. 

Ort Otd i De: 1040 ; okey of. ie Madd aoe his tenure is given as of the 

countess. 


141 


z 


NEUFMARCHE FEES: 


V 


E8cI “P 
=FHOUVWANAN Ad WVGY 


Eee ' 
pe 10772 MA FO LY-ZPZL 'P 
Aqysnoyi AA ep }AOGOY = Arosiep[ gYyoIewWjNoN op uepy =AHOUVNANAN AG NHO[ 


Jeroyn J Aoijjooy JO MOpPIM 


‘T[ouseq uojyooH Fo 6EGI Ul peep L¥SI 'P 
jeudeg Urel[ IM: ysnoioquieg jo sorsnl 
AIS Ie jo ‘nep ‘yuesoyyol.y =eyoreurjneN op Aruspzy =AHOUVWANAN Ad Way 
| | | | 
ZI-60GI “P ara! SLIT 'P 
' SST (2 wt _ ~ BUTATT SLIT o8e JO 
ATLL 9p ydrey =—s ATLL, OP S930 yasing np A1usy{= sstusq =AHOUVWANAN Ad AUNTY 


L | (Ze SIS 


(uozOTYOIH, FO PYoIeuryNON)) 


| V 19-0911 “P 
IoyIO[, 319G OY PIPIEM, O€FL]I 9J9UN sIy papssoons 
Jo Joyzour COSI Surat | SSIT suray ——«4FO: us F[MUeY 86-L6IT “P [é] GHOAVNANAN AC 10 
ae bes e[] aes ATILL 9P $9390 «JO ‘nep MS a ee 3p aie =OLVOUFP OAON AC ae 
one) 
aTTIASOg, 9p POLL SULAT, 
sella jo PleyyeH JO OST Surat OSI ‘9 ‘P 


JoysIs & [{]= uoAeY JO UOS WRT O}WeYM Op WeYTIM=—JoyysNep OLVOATW OAON AC WVITTIM 


Leal Se 
Axorid yyATq Jo 10,0eJoUNq SSO Sutaty 
O010,J OAON Op ureg IWOY IAON HdIvy 


LOZatl 


[9611] 


[sz11] 


LIST 


nyaed 


(0601) 


Logor] 


142 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


An account of the family of Neufmarché,! with special refer- 
ence to these holdings, was given by Farrer in his Honors and 
Kmights’ Fees, iii, pp. 416-8 ; and a subsequent account, showing 
the descent from an earlier line, was printed in vol. ix of the new 
edition of The Complete Peerage. The accompanying pedigree is 
primarily based on these accounts, though it includes some addi- 
tional details and suggestions. 

There is no available evidence to suggest that the family, 
which primarily held a tenancy of the honour of Tickhill, acquired 
any interest in: the honour of Warenne before the marriage of 
Henry de Neufmarché to Denise de Tilly in the second half of the 
twelfth century. A detailed account of the family, especially of the 
first line, would be more appropriate, therefore, in a volume on 
the honour of Tickhill ; and the following notes, after indicating 
the origin of the second line, are mainly concerned with the early 
history of the holdings of the honour of Warenne and other in- 
terests which were acquired through Henry’s marriage. 

At Michaelmas 1130, in the entry under Blida [Blyth, co. . 
Nottingham], William de Waddona [Whatton, co. Nottingham] 
rendered account of 25/1. that his son might inherit the land of . 
William de Novo Mercato,’ his uncle.* It is probable that the son 
was Adam de Novo Mercato and that he assumed his mother’s 
name. As Adam de Novo foro he witnessed the foundation charters 
of Roche Abbey which was founded in 1147.° He was the ancestor 
of the second line, and died shortly before Michaelmas 1161, when 
William de Novo Mercato rendered account of 93/1. 6s. 8d in 
Yorkshire for the custody of the land of Adam de Novo Mercato.® 
Two years later, in an entry recording an instalment of the pay- 
ment, the custody was described as of the land of William’s nephew; — 
and the debt was finally lquidated at Michaelmas 1167.7 At 
Michaelmas 1172, in the accounts of the honour of Tickhill, Henry © 
de Novo Mercato rendered account of 100/. for having his land 


1 This form of the name, used by Farrer, is to be preferred to the more 
usual ‘Newmarch,’ which suggests a wrong translation of the Latin forms 
de Novo Foro and de Novo Mercato. It is likely that the earliest member of 
the family came to England from Normandy, though the place of origin has 
not been determined. The suggestion made by Richard Holmes (Pontefract 
Chartulary, 11, 586) that the family derived its name from the Novum forum 
or Newmarket in Pontefract cannot be accepted. 

2 The honour of Blyth became known later as the honour of Tickhill. 

3 There can be little doubt that this William was the nephew of Pain 
de Novo Foro with whose consent Pain made a small gift to Blyth priory ; 
Pain being a brother of Ralph Novi Fori who witnessed the foundation of 
Blyth in 1088 (Complete Peerage, new ed., ix, 543, citing Blyth cartulary, 
ff. 100V, 106). The statement that Pain was brother and heiy of Ralph may 
be subject to amendment ; for it seems more likely that William was son and 
heir of Ralph, presumably Pain’s elder brother. 

+ Pipe Roll 31 Hen. I, p. 36. Clearly William de Novo Mercato was the 
son’s uncle ; and it can be assumed that William de Whatton had married 
William’s sister. 

> Mon. Ang., v, pp. 502-3. 

6 Pipe Roll 7 Hen, If p.. 37. 

’ Ihid. 9 Hen. , p. 9845.13 Hen. If, p. 79. 


NEUFMARCHE FEES ° 143 


which had been in the custody of his uncle.1 He died in the summer 
of 1178, for at Michaelmas in that year 8/7. 17s. 6d. was paid in 
respect of the farm of the land of Henry de Novo Mercato for a 
quarter of the year, whose land held of the honour of Tickhill and 
whose wife the king had committed to his uncle in custody.? His 
uncle was evidently William, the younger brother of his father 
Adam, who had held the land in custody from 1161 to:1172.° 
Henry de Neufmarché married Denise daughter of Otes de 
Tilly ; and it was through this marriage that his family’s holdings 
of the honour of Tickhill were augmented by holdings of the 
honours of Warenne and Lascy. At Michaelmas 1180 Otes (Oto) 
de Tilly rendered account of 400/. in Yorkshire for having the 
custody of the land of his grandson (nepotis), his daughter to be 
married at the king’s will ; he then paid 100.4 His debt was paid 
in instalments during the ensuing years, and was finally discharged 
at Michaelmas 1188.5 It will be seen below that his daughter 


1 Pipe Roll 18 Hen. II, p. 63 ; payment was completed by Mich. 1177 
(ibid. 23 Hen. II, p. 86). 

2 Ibid. 24 Hen. II, p. 76. There is also an entry showing that Robert 
Pikenot was pardoned 13 marks for the aid due from the land of Henry de 
Novo Mercato, this being the balance of the 18 marks due in the previous 
year, when Robert Pikenot, who had the farm of Tickhill, was the account- 
ant for the aid due from the vills and men of the honour (ibid. 23 Hen. IJ, 
p. 87). 

3 It is probable, though a proof is not available, that this William can 
be identified with William de Neufmarché who married Isabel one of the two 
daughters of Ranulf son of Wilard, a tenant of the Baliol fee, and who was 
the donor to Monk Bretton priory of a bovate of. land in Cadeby, par. 
Sprotborough—a gift which was confirmed by his son Ranulf de Hikilton 
(Monkbretton Chartularies, p. 98). The latter can be identified as Ranulf de 
Novo Mercato, to whom interests in Hickleton, Cadeby and Flockton were 
assigned in a revised agreement made in 1201 for the division of the in- 
heritance of Ranulf son of Wilard, his grandfather, the other moiety mainly 
consisting of lands in Stamfordham and elsewhere in Northumberland ; see 
Yorks. Fines, John, p. 8; Farrer’s notes in E.Y.C., i, p. 457; and for the 
Normanville family, representing the other daughter of Ranulf son of 
Wilard, Northumberland County History, xii, pp. 302 et seq. This branch of 
the Neufmarché family does not concern the tenures in the present volume, 
except in connexion with Flockton, a part of which vill became a member of 
the manor of Wakefield ; see the reference in the Horbury section in Chapter 
IV below. The close relationship of this branch to the main line of 
Neufmarché is suggested by the fact that members of the latter witnessed 
charters issued by members of the former ; see the charters noted by Hunter 
in South Yorkshire, ii, 133, from the Monk Bretton chartulary ; and ef; 
Monkbretton Chartularies, pp. 91-2; and also a charter of Ralph son of 
Ranulf de Novo Mercato giving land in Cadeby to the Hospitallers (Mis- 
cellanea, Y.R.S., i, 61). 

The William mentioned in this note was certainly the William de Novo 
Foro, also de Novo Mercato, who accounted for 911. 6s. 8d. in the debts of 
Aaron the Jew in Yorkshire at Mich. 1191, paying this by instalments until 
at Mich. 1198 a mark was paid by the hand of Ranulf his son (Pipe Roll 
3 Ric. I, p. 22; 10 Ric. I, p. 31), suggesting that William died in that financial 
year. He was also probably the William de Novo Mercato who at Mich, 1180 
rendered account of 39/i. 14s. 6d. in Yorkshire ‘pro concordia duelli’; a 
debt which he finally discharged at Mich. 1188 (ibid. 26 Hen. IT, p. 63 ; 34 
Hen. II, p. 84). 

+ Pipe Roll 26 Hen. II, p. 72. 

5 Ibid. 34 Hen. II, p. 85. 


144 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Denise was married to Henry du Puiset as her second husband, 
and that his grandson was her son Adam son of Henry de Neuf- 
marché. | 

The ancestry of Denise de Tilly is proved by the record of a case 
heard in Michaelmas term 1225, when Adam de Novo Mercato was 
the plaintiff in an assize of darrein presentment to the church of 
Hatfield against William earl de Warenne and the prior of Lewes. 
Adam included in his rejoinder the statement that Otes (Odo) de 
Tilly and Mabel his wife twenty years before their death gave the 
manor of Hatfield to’ Henry de Novo Mercato, his father, in 
marriage with their daughter. The jurors said that William son 
of Raven, Adam’s ancestor, presented Hugh de Hethfeldia, who 
last died as rector ; and asked how Adam was William’s heir, they 
said that William had a daughter Mabel, who had a daughter 
Denise, who was Adam’s mother, and that William gave the land 
in marriage with Mabel to Otes her husband, and Otes and Mabel 
gave it in marriage with Denise to Henry de Novo Mercato ; they 
also said that Mabel was married a long time before William’s 
death, and that Henry and Denise were in seisin for twenty years 
in the lifetime of Otes and Mabel.1 It was adjudged that Adam 
had recovered his seisin of the advowson, and the prior and the 
earl were in mercy.? ' a 

William son of Raven, Denise de Tilly’s maternal grand- 
father, the tenant of Hatfield, was sheriff of Wakefield in the time 
of the third earl in the period 1138-47 (no. 31). He witnessed the 
foundation charters of Roche abbey, c. 1147.3 He also witnessed 
the charter of earl Hamelin to the Hospitallers (no. 67), and was 
therefore living in 1164. He probably lived for some years longer, 
as Hugh de Hatfield* whom he presented to the rectory of Hatfield 
was still alive in 1202 (no. 85) and probably until a short while 
before the assize of darrein presentment was. heard in 1225.. 

Otes de Tilly, to whom William son of Raven gave the 
manor of Hatfield in marriage with Mabel his daughter, held two 
knights’ fees of old feoffment and a knight’s fee of new feoffment 
of Henry de Lascy in 1166.° These three knights’ fees descended 
to the Neufmarché family, being held.in 1242-43 by Adam de Novo 
Mercato of the honour of the earl of Lincoln ;§ and included land 
in Campsall, where Otes de Tilly made a gift to the hospital of St. 

1 If this was literally true their marriage must have taken place when 
Henry was quite a boy, for he came of age in 1172 and died in 1178. 

2 Bracton’s Note Book, no. 1685. See further in the note to no. 114 below. 

3 Mon. Ang., v, pp. 502-3. From these it can be deduced that he held a 
tenancy of the honour of Tickhill. 

* Presumably the Hugh rector of Hatfield who occurs in charters of 
date 1182-89 (see p.146” below). He was also probably the same man as 
Hugh de Hatfelde who was rector of Carlton Scroop in 1219, of which church 
Adam de Neufmarché was patron, and where an institution to the rectory 
was made in 1226 (Rot. Hug. de Welles, Cant. and York Soc., i, 176; iii, 147). 
If this identification is correct it can be suggested that Carlton Scroop may 
have had the same descent as Hatfield, namely from William son of Raven. 

5 Red. Bk. of Exch., p. 422; the 2 k.f. were among the k.f. held im- 


mediately of Henry de Lascy by Guy de Laval. 
6 Bk. of Fees, p. 1102. John de Lascy, earl of Lincoln, had died in 1240. 


“ NEUFMARCHE FEES: 145 


Peter, York. Otes de Tilly was granted the vill of Thorpe in Balne 
[par. Barnby-upon-Don] by William Vavasour at a rent of 10s. 
yearly ; and his interest there also descended to the Neufmarche 
family.2, He witnessed charters of Henry de Lascy in favour of 
the Cistercian monks at Barnoldswick, 1147-54,3 and to Kirkstall 
abbey, c. 1150-1159 ;4 others of the same, 1154-66, 1160-70, and 
c. 1160-1177 ;> other charters relating to lands held of the honour 
of Pontefract in the period 1159-84,° and one in 1190.7 When 
Henry Picot was constable Otes occurs as steward of Conisborough 
in the time of earl Hamelin (no. 71)—an office which he probably 
acquired as a result of his marriage to the daughter of a tenant of 
the honour of Warenne ; and an inscribed cross was erected to his 
memory at Doncaster.® : 

Otes de Tilly had two sons named Otes and Ralph. Otes 
son of Otes de Tilli and Ralph his brother witnessed a charter of 
Mabel widow of Otes to Roche abbey (no. 119) ; and Otes de Tilli 
son of Otes witnessed a charter of William son of Robert de Percy 
to Nostell priory, confirming the church of Bolton Percy, Henry 
de Pusat [du Puiset] being the first witness.® There is evidence 
from a Lincolnshire case in 1271-72 that Otes the younger had a 
daughter Margery whose heir was her aunt Denise. In that case 


1 E.Y.C., iii, no. 1551. For the interest of Denise de Tilly in Campsall 
in 1207 and the subsequent interest of the Neufmarché family see Fasti 
Parochiales, Y.R.S., i, pp. 54-5. 

2 South Yorkshire, i, pp. 217-8. The land comprised in the grant formed 
part of the Percy fee, for it was found in 1352 after the death of Sir Roger 
Neufmarché that part of the manor of Thorpe in Balne, which manor was 
held of different tenants-in-chief, was held of the manor of Heselwod 
(Hazlewood, Tadcaster, held by the Vavasours of the Percy fee] by knight 
service, rendering 10s. yearly (Cal. Ing. p.m., x, no. 25). 

2 Ey Y.G., 1, no, 641. 

4 Tbid., iii, no. 1500. 

5 Tbid., nos. 1770, 1505, 1773. 

6 Ibid., nos. 1527, 1529, 1549, 1572, 1626, 1638. 

7 Ibid., no. 1641 ; but this was possibly Otes his son. 

 . 8 See the description in South Yorkshire, i, 10. He appears to have been 
one of several brothers to whom there are many references in charters 
printed in E.Y.C., vols. i-iii (see Index volume thereto). They include 
Ralph, who is named as the brother of Otes in a charter of date 1176-85 
(Yorks. Deeds, ii, p. 1n) and had a brother Hugh and, by his wife Sibyl de 
Clerefai, two sons Ralph and Roger (Mon. Ang., v, 487). Another brother 
was evidently Roger de Tilly who held a knight’s fee of Henry de Lascy in 
1166 (Red. Bk. of Exch.,; p. 422), and was probably the ancestor of the Tilly 
family of Gomersal and Birstall, which descended in the male line to the 
middie of the fourteenth century (see the full account by W. T. Lancaster in 
Thoresby Soc. vol. xxvi, Miscellanea, pp. 16 et seq). With the exception of 
Otes, however, any attempt to give a detailed description of members of the 
family as a whole is outside the scope of the present volume. There are 
complications, seeing that Otes and his son Otes each had a brother named 
Ralph. But there are several points of interest ; e.g. the occurrence towards 
the end of the twelfth century of Hugh de Tilly of Rotherham (Bayne i 
no. 495), a place where the family possessed a considerable interest (South 
Yorkshire, ii, 3) ; the fact that in 1174 Ralph de Tilly was constable of the 
household of the abp of York (Roger de Howden, Rolls Ser., ii, 60); and the 
occurrence of no less a man than Osbert the archdeacon (after his resignation) 
as steward of Hugh de Tilly (F.Y.C., iii, no. 1527). 

9 Mon. Ang., vi, 93. 


146 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Adam de Novo Mercato was the plaintiff against the abbot of 
Cherbourg for 58 acres of land with appurtenances in Karleton 
[Carlton Scroop] as his right, of which a certain Margery his ante- 
cessor was seised in her demesne as of fee in the time of king Henry 
the king’s grandfather ;! and from Margery, because she died with- 
out an heir of her body (de se), the right reverted to a certain 
Denise as.aunt and heir, being sister of a certain Otes her father ; 
and from Denise to Adam her son and heir, and from Adam to 
John as son and heir, and from John to Adam the plaintiff as son 
and heir. The abbot denied Margery’s right and put himself on 
the great assize. Afterwards there was an agreement by licence.? 
From this it is clear that, until the death of Margery, Denise did 
not become the heir of her father Otes the elder. 

At Michaelmas 1190 there is an entry on the Yorkshire Pipe 
Roll, repeated down to Michaelmas 1199, but not subsequently, 
showing that Otes de Tilli owed 20s. for having a recognition as to 
whether the land of “Brichtwethau’ belonged to the king’s fee of 
‘Witelay’ or to Otes’s fee of “Wiuetelay.’? It is uncertain whether 
it refers to Otes the elder, or, as is more likely, .to his son. The 
most probable identification of the king’s fee seems to be Wheatley, 
which as a member of the manor of Doncaster was then in the 
king’s hand; but no suggestion is available for ‘Brichtwethau.’ 
The entries tend to show that the debtor was not living later than 
1200. 

It will be seen above that. Denise de. Tilly, whose husband 
Henry de Neufmarché died in 1178, was still a widow in 1180. At 
Michaelmas 1182 Henry de Pusaz rendered account of 10022. in 
Yorkshire that he might marry the daughter of Otes de Tilli ;4 and 
he completed his payments by Michaelmas 1185.° He was an 
illegitimate son of Hugh du Puiset, afterwards bishop of Durham,® 
by Alice an illegitimate daughter of. William de Percy.” He was 


! If so it would tend to show that Otes the elder and younger were both 
dead by 1189 ; but the former was alive in 1188 and one of the two in 1190 
(see above). It may be that Margery was given the land, perhaps in marriage ; 
but chronological considerations make this, and therefore the truth of the 
statement, unlikely. 

2 Assize Roll 483, m. 67. On 1 March 1271-2 a fine was levied between 
Adam de Novo Mercato and Durant abbot of Cherbourg as to 58 acres of 
land in Carleton ; the abbot acknowledged the land as the right of Adam, 
who granted it with other lands there to him and his successors to hold of 
Adam and his heirs (Lincs. Fines, vol. ii, Linc. Rec. Soc.; p. 243). 

3 Pipe Roll. 2 Ric. 1, p. 67, and the intervening rolls to 1 John, p. 40; 
the spelling varies, e.g. Brichtwiueton and Brictiueton. 

4 Pipe Roll 28 Hen. II, p. 45. 

5 Ibid. 31 Hen. II, p. 65 ; spelling del Puisat. 

6 This is proved by two of his charters to Finchale priory, co. Durham, 
of which he was the founder ; in these he mentioned his father Hugh bishop 
of Durham and his own wife Denise, and among the witnesses, besides Hugh 
rector of Hatfield, were Adam de Novo Mercato and Henry his brother [his 
step-sons] (Priory of Finchale, Surtees Soc., nos. 51, 52) ; the dates are not 
later than 1189, and therefore fall in the period 1182-89, his step-sons. being 
boys at the time. 

7 For her see Complete Peerage, new ed., x, 442n. 


- NEUFMARCHE FEES 147 


living in 1209 ;} and died before 6 Sept. 1212, when Denise is 
mentioned as his widow.? _ In that year as dame Denise de Pusaz 
she held the vill of Carlton [Scroop], co. Lincoln, of earl de 
Warenne.3 3 

Before leaving the family of Denise de Tilly it is desirable 
to examine the tenancies of Elias de Bosville. The charters printed 
in this section show that in the middle of the twelfth century he 
held a tenancy of the honour of Warenne in Barnborough and 
Harthill. In both cases his interest passed eventually to the Neuf- 
marché family. The Barnborough charters prove that it. so passed 
through Denise de Tilly. Similarly, with regard to Harthill Elias 
son of Hugh, who can certainly be identified with Elias de Bosville, 
enfeoffed Reginald de Warenne of all his land of Harthill to hold 
by the service of a quarter of a knight (no. 111) ; in 1203 Denise 
wife of Henry du Puiset was engaged in a plea against William de 
Warenne [son of Reginald] for the vill of Harthill ;* and in 1304 
Hugh Bardolf, the descendant of Reginald de: Warenne, held a 
messuage and land there of John de Neufmarché by precisely the 
same service.° : | : 

Of Elias de Bosville very little is known. His father’s name 
was Hugh who had held the land in Harthill of earl de Warenne 
(no. 111); and he had a brother named Fulk (no. 99). He-was 
possibly the descendant of Robert de Busevilla who witnessed a 
charter of William second earl de Warenne, 1088-1118 (no. 12). It 
is reasonably certain that he took his name from Beuzeville-la- 
Giffard, dept. Seine-Inférieure, arr. Dieppe, canton Bellencombre, 
a place which is only about 3} miles south of Bellencombre, the 
caput of the honour of Warenne in Normandy ; but. unfortunately 
Norman sources appear to throw no light on the family. He had 
a daughter and heir Lettice (no. 111), who was evidently the wife 
of Henry Picot, constable of Conisborough in the period 1174-78 
(no. 71 and note to no. 73). 

The problem is to decide how the interests of Elias de Bosville 
passed to Denise de Tilly. There is one piece of evidence which 
suggests that she inherited them from her mother Mabel, daughter 
of William son of Raven, and not from her father Otes de Tilly. 
Charters issued by Mabel widow of Otes de Tilly relating to Braith- 
well and Bramley (nos. 118, 119) indicate that she was holding her 
interests there in her own right ; and in another Braithwell charter 
(no, 121) it appears that part of the fee of Elias de Bosville lay in 
that place. It is probable, therefore, that on the death of Lettice 
de Bosville the heir of her father Elias was Mabel daughter of 
William son of Raven; and, although the suggestion is purely 
conjectural with no documentary support, the most likely solution is 
that William son of Raven had married a sister of Elias de Bosville.® 

' Fountains Chartulary, p. 358. 2 Rot. Claus., i, 124a. ° 

3 Bk. of Fees, p: 186. 4 Curia Regis Rolls, ii, 227. 

5 Cal. Ing. p.m., iv, no. 236. 

6 This is one of the two suggestions made by Farrer in H.K.F. MS. ; the 


other being that Otes de Tilly may have been the son of a sister of Elias ; but 
that appears less likely. 


148 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


It can be added that members of a Bosville family, pre- 
sumably representing a younger line, had a connexion with Mabel 
wife of Otes de Tilly, and her daughter Denise and her second 
husband Henry du Puiset. Thus in 1203 a William de Bosevill’ 
acted on behalf of Mabel de Tilly against the countess de Warenne 
in an assize of mort d’ancestor.1 In the same year he was named 
to act on behalf of Denise wife of Henry du Puiset.2 In 1199 the 
same man had acted for Henry du Puiset in making an agreement 
with earl de Warenne ;* and he acted on his behalf in ensuing 
years to 1204,* being named as his steward in 1200.6 He and a 
Thomas de Bosevill witnessed Henry’s charters to Finchale priory.® 

Returning now to the Neufmarché family Adam son and heir 
of Henry de Neufmarché attained full age in the period 1190-99.? 
In 1208-13 he held 4 knights’ fees of the honour of Tickhill.§ His 
holdings of the honour of Warenne in 1242-43, and that of his son 
John in Carlton Scroop, co. Lincoln, have been noted above.® In 
1225 he was successful in establishing his claim to the advowson 
of Hatfield (see above). In 1241 he made an agreement with his 
lady Maud countess de Warenne, in the first year of her widowhood, 
who granted him a watercourse and ditch in Balne.!° He was a 
justice itinerant in the period 1218-35, and died in 1247 His 
younger brother Henry de Neufmarché held land in Barnborough 
and the advowson of the church, which he gave to Robert de 
Lexington, who gave it to the chapter of Southwell;!2 in 1218 he 
married Frethesant daughter of William Paynel of Hooton Pagnell, 
and widow of Geoffrey Luterel, and he was dead in 1239.13 

Adam de Neufmarché had two sons, John, mentioned above, 
who died in his lifetime ; and Adam who received Whatton as his 


1 Curia Regis Rolls, ii, 234. 

2 Ibid., p. 227 ; spelling Basevill’. 

3 [bid., i, 84. 

+ Ibid., pp. 104, 277, 333 ; ii, 47 ; iii, pp. 93, 113, 148 ; spelling sometimes 
Besevill’. 

> 161d. hgoks 

6 Priory of Finchale, nos. 21, 51, 52, 58; in the last the spelling is 
Besewilla. For a Thomas de Bosville living in 1227 see no. 115 below. 

7 His father attained full age in 1172 and died in 1178. 

8 Bk. of Fees, p. 32. 

° Adam himself occurs as patron of Carlton Scroop in 1219 and 1226 
(Rot. Hug. de Welles, Cant. and York Soc., i, 176 ; ili, 147) ; and in 1229 his 
demesne there is mentioned in an agreement with Lewes priory (Lewes 
Chartulary, f. 209). It seems that subsequently he made over his interest to 
his son John, who predeceased him. In 1303 a later John, then head of the 
family, held a knight’s fee there (Feudal Atds, iii, 171). ; 

10 Cat. Anc. Deeds, v, 97 (A. 11128) ; Richard de Calt{on], steward of 
the countess, being one of those who executed the agreement. In 1253 an 
agreement was made between John de Warenne and Adam de Neufmarché 
(Adam’s grandson) relating to the water (zbzd., p. 43 ; A. 10762). 

11 Complete Peerage, new ed. ix, 545, where there are further details of 
his career ; Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 41, as a justice in Sept. 1235. 

12 Fasti Pavochiales, Y.R.S., i, 26, and the authorities there cited. In 
1218 Henry granted 2 bovates of land in Barnborough to Roger son of Roger 
(Yorks. Fines, 1218-31, p. 9) ; and cf. the note to charter no. 105 below. 

13 E.Y.C., vi, 45. He was apparently alive in 1230 (Pipe Roll 14 Hen. 


IIT, p. 290). 


NEUFMARCHE FEES 149 


portion, and was the ancestor of a younger line of that place which 
descended in the male line until the fourteenth century.! He also 
had a daughter Margery, to whom he gave the manor of Marr (a 
member of the honour of Tickhill) in frank-marriage with Robert 
de Willoughby, and who had issue.? 3 

The heir of the main line was a younger Adam de Neufmarché, 
son of John, who was of age on succeeding his grandfather in 1247, 
and died in 1283 ; from him the family descended in the male line 
until the fifteenth century? | 

No mention has been made in these notes of Warmsworth, 
except for the knight’s fee of the honour of Warenne which Adam 
de Neufmarché held there in 1242-43. It is possible that as it is 
recorded as a separate holding it came to the Neufmarché family 
in a different manner from the knight’s fee in Barnborough and 
Bilham. Although it is probable that it was due to the marriage 
of Henry de Neufmarché, Adam’s father, to Denise de Tilly, it 
may have been inherited through her father Otes de Tilly rather 
than, as in the case of Barnborough, through her mother Mabel 
daughter of William son of Raven. The early history of Warms- 
worth is obscure, though as Hunter shows‘ there was a series of 
sub-infeudations there ; nor are any. twelfth-century charters re- 
lating to it available. There is, however, a reference to a deed by 
which Adam de Neufmarché confirmed a grant of land there made 
by Henry de Neufmarché his brother to Roger son of Geoffrey de 
Hodsock in the first half of the reign of Henry III ;° and Roger de 
Hodsock presented to the church in 1234.° 


(i) BARNBOROUGH | 


99. Notification by Elias de Bosville to Henry, archbishop of York, of 
his gift, for the soul of Fulk his brother, to Nostell priory of Gossa 
‘de Barnborough and Louedei his wife with all his land held of 
Elias, namely 2 bovates, and his toft. ~ [1147-53] 


Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, f. 57V (old p. 130). 


H[enrico] Dei gratia Ebor[acensi] archiepiscopo omnibusque suc- 
cessoribus suis totique capitulo sancti Petri Ebor[acensis] omnibusque 
filiis sancte ecclesie et omnibus heredibus suis Helias de Boseuilla 
salutem. Notum sit caritati vestre me dedisse et concessisse pro salute 
anime mee et pro anima patris mei et matris mee et pro anima fratris 
mei Fulconis et omnium parentum meorum hominem quendam,, scilicet 
Gossam de Barnaburch’ et uxorem suam Louedei cum tota terra sua 
quam de me tenuit scilicet duabus bovetis terre et cum tofta sua et cum 
omnibus rebus suis que ad illum pertinent et in bosco et in aqua et in 

1 Complete Peevage, ut sup. — 

2 Plac. de Quo War., p. 200b ; and for her Christian name a deed cited 

by Hunter in South Yorkshire, i, 360. 

3 Complete Peerage, ut sup. 

4 South Yorkshire, i, 126. 

» 3 [bid., citing Thoroton, Nottinghamshire, iii, 418. ye 

6 Reg. Gray, p. 68 ; and see Fasti Parochiales, Y.R.S., ii, 103 for further 

presentations by this family and its representatives. — :, 


150 HONOUR OF. WARENNE 


pascuis et in pratis solutum et quietum ab omni servitio seculari et 
consuetudine ecclesie sancti Oswaldi de Nostla et canonicis ibidem 
Deo servientibus in perpetuam elemosinam. Hujus rei testes sunt, etc. 


The gifts of Elias de Bosville are described in king Henry II’s general 
confirmation charter to Nostell priory, 1155-57, as ‘tres bovatas terre et vj. 
acras et unam toftam que fuit Huschar in Barneburch et unum molendinum 
de Herletona quod pertinet ad eandem Barneburch.’! These gifts were made 
in the present charter and the next, where the total number of bovates adds 
up to three. Confirmations of the gifts of Elias made by William the fourth 
earl and by earl Hamelin are given at nos. 51,'72, 73 above. Archbishop 
Henry. died on 14 Oct. 1153. 


100. Notification by Elias de Bosville to Henry, archbishop of York, of 
his gift, for the souls of Fulk his brother and William [third] earl 
de Warenne, to Nostell priory of the mill of Harlington, a bovate 
of land with a toft in Barnborough, and 6 acres of land and a toft 
there, and of William the miller with his wife and children. 

[1148—June 1152] 


Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, f. 57V (old p. 130). 


Venerabili Dei gratia H[enrico] Ebor[acensi] archiepiscopo toti- 
que capitulo Ebor[acensi] omnibusque sancte Dei ecclesie filiis univer- 
sisque heredibus et successoribus suis Helias de Bosauilla salutem. 
Notum sit dilectioni vestre me pro salute anime mee et pro anima patris 
mei et matris mee et fratris mei Fulconis et omnium parentum meorum 
et pro anima Willelmi comitis de Warenna, dedisse et concessisse ecclesie 
sancti Oswaldi de Nostlath et canonicis ibidem Deo servientibus molen- 
dinum de Herlatona et unam bovatam terre cum tofta in Barnaburch 
que fuit Willelmi molendinarii et vj. acras terre et unam toftam que fuit 
Huscarl in eadem villa, Willelmum etiam molendinarium cum uxore 
sua et liberis suis, in perpetuam elemosinam liberam et quietam ab 
omni servitio et consuetudine sicut unquam melius et quietius aliqua 
elemosina sancte ecclesie data est. Hujus rei testes sunt, etc. 


In view of the confirmation by William de Warenne, son of ‘Henry ear] 
of Northumberland (no. 101) the latest date is June 1152 ; and the earliest is 
fixed by the death of the third earl in January 1147-8. 

It is likely that the mill of Harlington was the mill recorded in the entry 
for the portion of Barnborough held by William de Warenne in 1086.2 


101. Notification by William de Warenne, son of Henry earl of North- 
umberland, to Henry, archbishop of York, of his confirmation, 
for the health of the souls of his father earl Henry and his mother 
countess Ada and for the souls of William the elder [second] earl 


L Mon, Ang. vic 98 FV i. p. 135. Eustace son of John, the last 
witness, was slain in 1157. Eyton suggested that although no place of issue 
is given it was issued when the king was in Yorkshire early in 1155 (Itinerary, 
p. 5). Only the last part of the charter now remains in the Nostell Chartulary 
(f.4, old p. 5). The same description of the gifts of Elias is given in confirma- 
tion charters issued by Richard I, John and Henry III (ff. 4V, 5V, 6). 

2 See the table above, — . 


NEUFMARCHE FEES 151 


de Warenne and countess Isabel, of the gift which Elias de Bos- 
ville had made to Nostell priory of the mill of Harlington [etc. as 
in no. 100}. [1148—June 1152] 


Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, f. 57 (old p. 129). Pd. 
in Hunter, South Yorkshirve,:i, 376, from the same. 


Venerabili Dei gratia H[enrico] archiepiscopo totique capitulo 
Ebor[acensi] omnibusque sancte Dei ecclesie filiis universisque here- 
dibus et successoribus suis Willelmus de Warrena filius Henrici comitis 
Northanhimbrorum salutem. Notum sit caritati vestre me, pro salute 
anime mee et pro salute animarum patris mei Henrici comitis et matris 
mee Ade comitisse et pro anima Willelmi comitis senis de Warenna et 
comitisse Isabel et omnium parentum meorum, concessisse et per pre- 
sentem cartam confirmasse donationem quam dedit Helias de Bosauilla 
canonicis ecclesie sancti Oswaldi de Nostlat et concessit, videlicet 
molendinum de Herlatona et unam bovatam terre cum tofta in Barne- 
burg’ que fuit Willelmi molendinarii et sex acras terre et unam toftam 
que fuit Huscarl in eadem villa, Willelmum etiam molendinarium cum 
uxore sua et liberis suis, imperpetuam elemosinam liberam et quietam 
ab omni servitio et consuetudine sicut unquam melius et quietius 
aliqua elemosina sancte ecclesie data est. T[estibus]. 


The grantor, afterwards known as William the Lion, king of Scotland, 
was the second son of Henry earl of Huntingdon by Ada daughter of William 
second earl de Warenne.! The charter was issued not earlier than 1148, which 
is the earliest date for the gifts of Elias de Bosville confirmed by it (no. 100) ; 
and it was possibly issued on the same occasion. As it was evidently issued 
while the grantor’s father was still alive,? the latest date is 12 June 1152, 
when his father died. The grantor was born in 1143, so that the charter was 
issued in his boyhood. 

There is another example of his use of his mother’s name in a charter 
which, as William de Gwarenne, earl of Northumberland, he issued to Brink- 
burn priory, 1152-57.% 

The reason for the issue of the present confirmation charter to Nostell 
priory is difficult to explain. Henry earl of Huntingdon had an interest in 
the neighbourhood, for he had been given Doncaster by king Stephen in 
1136, and issued a charter relating to a toft there in the period 1136-52.4 
Barnborough is not far from Doncaster ; and possibly the grant of the latter 
included some supposed rights in the former place, which may have been 
assigned by earl Henry to his younger son. The premises confirmed by this 
charter were, however, certainly held of the honour of Conisborough. An 
alternative possibility is that they formed part of the maritagium of Ada 
de Warenne, wife of earl Henry; but this is unlikely as Ada lived to 1178. 


ESE a ica Rar Rn cies Rae is rao he — Re Oe 

1 Complete Peerage, new ed., vols. vi and ix, s.n. Huntingdon and 
Northumberland ; and see Chapter I above. 

2 The pro salute animarum, in contrast with pro anima, and the descrip- 
tion of the grantor both indicate this. Moreover his mother, mentioned in 
conjunction with his father, was certainly alive ; she did not die until 1178. 

3 Complete Peerage, ix, 707n, where it is pointed out that ‘Malcolm’ in 
the text pd. in Brinkburn Chartulary, Surtees Soc., no. clxxvi, is an error for 
‘William’ ; and where the Nostell charter pd. above is also noticed. 

4 EVY.C., ii, no. 1004 and note. 


152 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


It may be noted that the grantor’s grandfather king David and his 
father earl Henry were benefactors of Nostell priory, making a gift of 3 marks 
yearly from. their mines of Carlisle in the period 1136-52.1 


102. Notification by Elias de Bosville to Roger, archbishop of York, 
of his gift to Nostell priory of 20 acres of land in the place called 

- Stagaldescroft [? in Barnborough], rendering 2s. yearly to him or 

his heirs after his return from Jerusalem, or to his heirs if he 

died on the way. [1154-59] 


Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, f. 57V (old p. 130) 


‘Venerabili Dei gratia. Ebor[acensi] archiepiscopo R[ogero]? et 
omnibus successoribus suis totique capitulo Ebor[acensi] omnibusque 
sancte ecclesie filiis universisque heredibus suis et amicis Helias de 
Bosauilla salutem. Notum sit dilectioni vestre me pro Dei amore et 
salute anime mee. et pro animabus patris mei et matris mee et omnium 
parentum meorum dedisse et concessisse ecclesie sancti Oswaldi de 
Nostlad et canonicis ibidem Deo servientibus xx. acras terre in loco 
qui dicitur Stagaldescroft in feuda firma et in perpetuam elemosinam 
liberas et quietas ab omni seculari servitio et consuetudine preter duos 
solidos per annum quos predicti canonici dabunt mihi annuatim vel: 
heredibus meis postquam de Jerosolim[a] rediero. Et si forte in via 
mortuus fuero heredibus meis dabunt. Hujus rei testes sunt, etc. 


The later limit of date is assigned on the assumption that these 20 acres 
were included in the confirmation of the fourth earl ; see no. 51 and the note 
thereto. On that assumption it can be supposed that the land lay in 
Barnborough. ‘Me Be tg 


103. Confirmation by Henry Picot to Nostell priory of the mill of 
_ Harlington; and gift of 4 acres of land as an easement of the mill 
andatoftofanacre. - | ke [1164-c. 1180] 


Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, f. 58 (old p. 131) 


. 


Notum sit omnibus tam presentibus quam futuris quod ego 
Henricus Picot concessi et hac. carta mea confirmavi ecclesie sancti 
Oswaldi de Nostla et canonicis ibidem Deo servientibus molendinum 
de Herlingtona cum omnibus pertinenciis suis scilicet cum secta tocius 
multure quam prius habere solebat. Et preterea do eisdem canonicis 
1iij" acras terre ad asiamentum illius molendini et unum toftum de una 
acra in liberam et perpetuam elemosinam. Quare volo et firmiter pre- 
cipio ut predicta ecclesia habeat et teneat totam prefatam elemosinam 
bene et in pace libere et quiete integre et honorifice quietam ab omni 
seculari servitio. Hiis testibus, etc. 


There can be little doubt’ that Lettice wife of Henry Picot, mentioned 
in the next charter, was the daughter and heir of Elias de Bosville, who with 
her tather was alive in 1159 (no. 111). This charter and the next were 


1 [bid., iii, no. 1464 and note. a" 

_* The initialsis quite clear. In Dodsworth’s copy from the Chartulary 

(MS. Dodsworth cxxxviii, f. 120V) H. is written above the line and "H: Arep't 
Ebor.’ in the margin ; but this is a mistake. 


NEUFMARCHE FEES 153 


evidently issued after Elias’s death. It is likely that the present charter was 
issued about the same time as a confirmation of earl Hamelin (no. 72) in 
which the wording of the confirmation clauses closely corresponds. The 
earliest date can therefore be taken as 1164. It has been suggested in the 
note to no. 72 that Henry Picot gave the 4 acres earlier than c. 1180. 


104. Confirmation by Henry Picot and Lettice his wife to Nostell 
priory of the mill of Harlington and a bovate of land which 
William the miller had held and Elias his son after him; and gift 
of 4 acres of land as an easement of the mill and a toft of an acre. 

[1164-c. 1190] 


Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, f. 58 (old p. 131). 


Omnibus filiis sancte matris ecclesie qui has literas viderint vel 
audierint Henricus Picot et Leticia uxor ejus salutem. Sciatis omnes 
nos concessisse et hac nostra presenti carta confirmasse ecclesie sancti 
Oswaldi de Nostla et canonicis ibidem Deo servientibus molendinum 
de Herlingtona cum omnibus pertinenciis suis, scilicet cum secta 
tocius multure quam prius habere solebat, et unam bovatam terre quam 
Willelmus molendinarius tenuit et Helias filius ejus post eum cum 
servitio quod ad eandem terram pertinet. Et preterea donamus et 
confirmamus eisdem canonicis quatuor acras terre ad asiamentum pre- 
dicti molendini et unum toftum de una acra in liberam et puram et 
perpetuam elemosinam. Quare volumus et firmiter precepimus ut pre- 
dicta ecclesia habeat et teneat totam prefatam elemosinam bene et in 
pace libere et quiete integre et honorifice quietam ab omni seculari 
servitio. Hiis testibus, etc. 


This charter is an extension of the preceding one. It includes the bovate 
which Elias de Bosville had given (no. 100), and which was the subject of a 
confirmation charter issued by earl Hamelin (no. 73). It was perhaps issued 
later than that confirmation (see the note thereto); but c. 1190 can be taken 
as the latest limit. 


105. Confirmation by Henry du Puiset with the assent of Denise his 
wife to Nostell priory of the mill of Harlington with the custo- 
mary multure from the fee of Elias de Bosville in the vill of 
Barnborough, and a bovate of land in Harlington which William 
the miller had held; also of 6 acres of land which the canons 
were wont to have as an easement. of the mill and a toft near 
the mill belonging to the bovate. [1182-c. 1200] 


Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, f. 58 (old p. 131). 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis ad quos presens scriptum 
pervenerit Henricus de Putheaco salutem. Sciatis me assensu et volun- 
tate Dionisie uxoris mee concessisse et hac presenti carta mea con- 
firmasse ecclesie sancti Oswaldi de Nostl’ et canonicis ibidem Deo 
servientibus molendinum de Herlingtona cum omnibus pertinenciis 
suis, scilicet cum sequela multure quam prius habere solebat de feodo 
Helie de Boseuill’ de villa de Barneburc, et unam bovatam terre in 
Herlingtona quam Willelmus molendinarius tenuit. Et preterea concessi 


154 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


predictis canonicis vj. acras terre quas prius habere solebant ad asia- 
mentum predicti molendini et unum toftum juxta molendinum que! ad 
prefatam bovatam terre pertinet. Hec omnia concessi prefatis canonicis 
in puram et perpetuam elemosinam pro salute anime mee et uxoris mee 
et omnium predecessorum meorum. Hiis testibus, etc. 


In the same section of the Chartulary there are also two confirmation 
charters issued by Henry de Novo Mercato (ff. 58d, 59) ; and two by John 
de Novo Mercato (ff. 57, 58d). These are all in much greater detail, and 
include other gifts. The former can be presumably identified not as the 
Henry de Neufmarché, first husband of Denise de Tilly, who died in 1178, 
but as her younger son, who as shown in the introduction above had an 
interest in Barnborough. He appears to have died without issue by 1239 ; 
and his interest would have passed to John his nephew, son of his elder 
brother Adam. 

These charters; together with the one printed above, prove that Denise 
de Tilly and her issue by her first husband were the representatives of Elias 
de Bosville. Denise married Henry du Puiset as her second husband in or 
about the year 1182; see the introduction above. 


106. Gift by Gerbod and Amice his wife to Nostell priory of a caru- 
cate of land in Barnborough. [ante 1158] 


Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, f. 58V (old p. 132). 


Omnibus sancte ecclesie filiis et omnibus heredibus suis et suc- 
cessoribus tam presentibus quam futuris Gerbodus et uxor ejus Amicia 
salutem. Notum sit caritati vestre nos pro salute animarum nostrarum 
et omnium parentum nostrorum unam carucatam terre in Barneburc, 
dimidiam videlicet in Bernolftorp et dimidiam in ipsa villa, solutam 
liberam et quietam ab omni servitio in perpetuam elemosinam conces- 
sisse et dedisse ecclesie sancti Oswaldi de Nostlad. Hujus donationis 
testes sunt, etc. 


A gift by Gerbod of 3 bovates of land in Warmfield is included in the 
general confirmation charter of king Henry I to Nostell priory, 1121-272; 
and gifts by him of the church of Warmfield with lands and tithes and all 
things belonging to the church, and by him and his sons William and Robert 
of a carucate of land in Barnborough, are included in the general confirmation 
charter of king Henry II, 1155-57.5 The latest date of the present charter, - 
and presumably of the next, is therefore 1157. 

Barnthorpe, where half the carucate lay, is mentioned in the fifteenth- 
century rental of Nostell priory.* 


107. Confirmation by William son of Gerbod to Nostell priory of a 
carucate of land in Barnborough, which Gerbod his father and 
Amice his mother had given. [ante 1158] 


Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, f. 58Y (old p. 132). 


te. 

E.Y.C., iii, no. 1428. 

Ibid., iii, p. 135, 
Miscellanea, Y.R.S., i, 129. 


-F WH BR 


NEUFMARCHE FEES 155 


Omnibus sancte ecclesie filiis et omnibus heredibus suis et suc- 
cessoribus Willelmus filius Gerbodi salutem. Notum sit caritati vestre 
me pro salute anime mee et pro salute anime patris et matris mee et 
omnium parentum meorum unam carucatam terre in Barneburc, 
dimidiam videlicet in Bernolftorp’ et dimidiam in ipsa villa, solutam 
et quietam et liberam ab omni seculari servitio in perpetuam elemosinam 
dedisse ecclesie sancti Oswaldi de Nostlath et confirmasse quam antea 
pater meus Gerbodus et mater mea Amicia concesserant et dederant 
predicte ecclesie. Hujus rei testes sunt, frater meus Rodbertus, etc. 


There follows a confirmation of the same carucate by Aytropus son of 
William son of Gerbod, with warranty clause. It seems clear that the descend- 
ants of Gerbod, who had sons William and Robert, took the name of Braith- 
well. Charters issued by Henry son of Robert son of Gerbod de Braithwell 
and by Thomas son of Aytrop de Braithwell are printed at nos. 121, 123. 

Members of the family were also benefactors of Roche abbey. William 
and Robert sons of Gerbod both gave land and pasture for specified numbers 
of sheep in Braithwell ; Thomas son of Atrop de Braythwell gave half a 
bovate and similar pasture there ; and he and his brother Richard issued 
confirmations.! 


(ii) BILHAM 


108. Gift by Henry son of John de Wortley to Thomas son of Matthew 
de Horbury of half a carucate of land in Bilham, at the rate of 

3 carucates to a knight’s fee; for 15 marks given beforehand. 
[ante 1218] 


MS. Dodsworth Ixii, f. 15Y, from the evidences of Sir Francis 
Wortley in 1637, miscellanea box, no. 47. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Henricus filius Johannis de 
Wrtley dedi et concessi et hac mea presenti carta confirmavi Thome 
filio Mathei de Horbir’ et heredibus suis dimidiam carucatam terre in 
villa de Bileham sine ullo retinemento unde tres carucate” terre faciunt 
feodum j. militis cum omnibus pertinenciis et libertatibus ad predictam 
terram pertinentibus in bosco in plano in pratis et in pascuis in semitis 
et in agris et in omnibus libertatibus que pertinent ad predictam 
villam pro humagio et servicio suo et pro quindecim marcis quas mihi 
dedit pre manibus. Et ego Henricus et heredes mei warentizabimus 
predictam terram prefato Thome et heredibus suis contra omnes 
homines. Hiis testibus, Randulfo de Nouo Marcato, Willelmo de 
Morhing, Willelmo de Treton’, Nicholao de Wrtelay, Willelmo de 
Hoton’, Hugone de Bileham, Matheo de Scepeley, Ada de Shiligton’, 
Jordano de Heton, Willelmo de Livet’, Willelmo filio Thome, Thoma 
filio Willelmi de Horbiry, et multis altis. 


It has been noted in the introductory notes to this Chapter that there 
were three separate interests in Bilham at the Domesday survey, 2 carucates 
being held by the count of Mortain, 4 carucates by Roger de Busli (passing 
to the honour of Tickhill), and one carucate soke of Conisborough. It is very 


1 Burton, Mon. Ebor., p. 320. 
2 carucatas, MS. 


156 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


unlikely that the half carucate which is the subject of this charter formed 
any part of the first of these holdings.! Although the evidence is not conclu- 
sive, it is more probable, especially having regard to some of the witnesses 
(and cf. the note to no. 109), that it formed part of the third rather than of 
the second of the holdings. If so this half carucate, held by the service of a 
sixth of a knight’s fee, presumably formed part of the knight’s fee held of 
the honour of Warenne by Adam de Neufmarché in Barnborough and Bilham 
in 1242-43. : 
Thomas son of Matthew de Horbury, the grantee, appears to have died 
by 12187; and mag. William Testard (who held the archdeaconry of Not- 
tingham), the first witness to the next charter, was presumably dead in 1220.3 


109. Gift by Thomas de Horbury to Josiana his daughter, her heirs 
or assign, of all the land in Bilham which he had purchased from 
Henry son of John de Wortley, doing to the latter and his heirs 
the forinsec service for a sixth part of a knight’s fee. 

[ante 1218] 


MS. Dodsworth Ixii, f. 15’, from the evidences of Sir Francis 
Wortley in 1637, miscellanea box, no. 41. 

Sciant tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Thomas de Horbiry 
dedi et concessi et hac presenti carta mea confirmavi Josyene filie mee 
pro homagio et servicio suo totam terram illam in Byleham cum omni- 
bus pertinenciis quam emi de Henrico filio Johannis de Wrthele; 
habendam et tenendam sibi et heredibus suis vel cui eam assignare 
voluerit de predicto Henrico et heredibus suis, faciendo inde eis forin- 
secum servicium quantum pertinet sexte parti feodi unius militis pro 
omni servicio et exaccione secundum quod carta quam habeo de eodem 
Henrico testatur. Et in hujus rei testimonium presentem cartam sigilli 
mei munimine roboravi. Hiis testibus, magistro Willelmo Testard, 
Henrico de Nouo Mercato, Alexandro de Nevill, Ada filio Philippi, 
Hugone de Byleham, Reinero clerico, et multis aliis. 


The grantee evidently married Henry de la Chambre. At a later date 
Michael Gerunel of Wath quitclaimed to Sir Ralph de Horbiry all the land 
in Bilham which Henry de la Chambre and Josyana his wife formerly held ; 
among the witnesses being Sir William de Lond’, then steward of earl de 
Warenne.* 


(iii) HARTHILL 


110. Gift by Elias de Bosville to Lewes priory of the church of Harthill. 
In the court of earl de Warenne at Conisborough. 
[c. 1147-1159] 
Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 303V. Abst. in 
Yiod ] 3, cent, ai 8. 
Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Helyas de Boeseuilla salutem. 
Noverit universitas vestra me concessisse dedisse et hac presenti carta 
1 For notes on the count of Mortain’s 2 car., forming part of the assess- 
ment of Hooton Pagnell, see E.Y.C., vi, p. 229. 
2 See the Horbury section in Chapter IV. 
3 YA. J See Sel. 
4 MS. Dodsworth Ixii, f, 36V, 


NEUFMARCHE FEES 157 


mea confirmasse Deo et sancto Pancracio de Lewes et monachis ibidem 
Deo servientibus ecclesiam de Hertill’ cum omnibus pertinenciis suis, in 
puram et perpetuam elemosinam liberam et quietam ab omni seculari 
servicio et exaccione, pro salute anime mee et predecessorum meorum. 
Hiis testibus, Reginald[o] de Warennia, Adam filio Suani et Henrico 
fratre ejus, Willelmo de Clerfai, Widone Ruffo, Willelmo Mauzin, 
Bernardo de Bleuilla, Euerardo filio Rad[ulfi], Johanne presbitero de 
Cunnygburgh’ et Petro fratre ejus, Petro clerico de Wachefeld, Ric[ardo] 
clerico de Bradewell’, magistro Willelmo de Dunningtun, Rodberto 
filio Horm,! Hug[one] de Sandale, Mauricio sacerdote de Hertille et 
Rodberto fratre ejus, Godrico filio Ketelberti. Hec carta facta fuit in 
curia comitis Warenne apud Cunnigburgh’. 


In view of the first witness Reginald de Warenne, brother of the third 
earl, the earliest possible date is 1142; but as he occupied the principal 
position among the witnesses to a charter issued in the earl’s court, it is un- 
likely that he did so before becoming responsible for the administration of 
the honour, c. 1147.2 The latést date is 1159, when Adam son of Swain, the 
second witness, died. William de Clerfai, the fourth witness, the second 
husband of Aubreye de Lisours, occurs on the Yorkshire Pipe Roll at 
Michaelmas 1156 * ; he had been constable of Tickhill in the reign of Stephen.° 
Guy Ruffus, the next witness, occurs subsequently as rector of Conisborough 
(no. 57). The last witness was presumably Godric son of Chetelbert who 
occurs on the Yorkshire Pipe Roll at Michaelmas 1130,° and was the ancestor 
of the Fitzwilliam family.’ 

The church of Harthill was among the churches in Yorkshire confirmed 
to Lewes priory by the third earl in 1147 (no. 34). The date of the foundation 
of the church is unknown ; but it is probable that it was founded as a daughter 
church of Conisborough, and that the priory acquired rights under the gift 
by the second earl before 1121 of the church of Conisborough and all its 
belongings (no. 8). 

The possession by the priory, however, cannot have been continuous. 
In an assize of darrein presentment brought in 1225 by Adam de Novo Mercato 
against Hubert de Burgh (husband of Beatrice daughter of William de 
Warenne of Wormegay), William earl de Warenne, and the prior of Lewes, 
it was stated and agreed on both sides that the last rector of Harthill had 
been presented by Elias de Bosville ; in one statement the presentation had 

“been made before Elias had granted the advowson to the priory, and in 
another before he had granted the manor to Reginald de Warenne ; and the 
prior produced what was evidently the present charter ; in view of the fine 
which had been made’ it was considered that the prior had recovered his 


1 Horin, MS. 

2 See the account of him in Chapter I. 

ie. YG, ui, p.dld: 

+ Pipe Roll 2 Hen. II, p. 27; and see the account of him in W. Paley 
Baildon, Baildon and the Baildons, i, pp. 348-9. 

5 Rot. Cur. Regis, ii, 162. 

6 Pipe Roll 31 Hen. I, p. 33. 

ory .C., ii, pesos. 

8 Certainly the fine of Jan. 1190-1 pd. below (no. 112). 


158 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


seisin.! The prior of Lewes was again successful in 1260, when a later Adam 
de Novo Mercato claimed the advowson, and presentations continued to 
be made by the prior and convent, or by virtue of their right, until the 
Dissolution.? 


111. Gift by Elias son of Hugh [de Bosville] to Reginald de Warenne, 
for his service and 100/. sterling, of all his land of Harthill, to 
hold to him and his heirs of the grantor and his heirs by the 
service of a quarter of a knight as freely as the grantor and his 
father had held it of earl.de Warenne. Reginald and William his 
son had sworn to be faithful to the grantor and his heirs as lord 
of the fee. The grantor‘and Lettice his daughter and heir had 
sworn to warrant the gift to Reginald and his heirs; this they had 
done in the presence of Isabel countess de Warenne, their lady, 
and of their peers ; and they had pledged the countess to warrant 
the gift. [1159-64] 

PLATE XXI 
Original charter, Hornby Castle Muniments, box ii, no. 1, belonging 
to the Duke of Leeds, now in the custody of the Yorks. Arch. 


Soc. Pd. with facsimile in Yorks. Deeds, Y.R.S., vii, no. 300 
(plate iv and p. 200). 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Elyas filius Hugonis dedi 
Reginaldo de War[enna] pro seruitio suo et pro centum. li[bris]. ester- 
lingorum quas dedit michi de pecunia sua . totam terram meam de 
Herthella cum omnibus eidem terre pertinentibus . in hominibus . in 
terris . in nemoribus . in campis . in pratis . in pasturis . in aquis . in 
molendinis . in viis . in semitis . et in omnibus eidem manerio prenomi- 
nato pertinentibvs . in feodo et hereditate . illi et heredibus suis ad 
tenendum per seruitium quarte partis militis . de me et heredibus meis . 
ita bene . et honorifice . et libere . sicut ego et pater meus melius et 
liberius tenuimus de comite War[ennie] domino nostro. Et de hoc . ipse 
Regin[aldus] et Willelmus filius eius affidauerunt ad portandam fidem 
michi et heredibus meis . sicut domino de predicto feodo. Ego autem et 
filia mea Letiz que est heres meus affidauimus et sacramento assecur- 
auimus ad warantizandum hanc donationem Reginaldo et heredibus suis 
contra omnes homines. Et hoc fecimus coram Isabel comitissa War- 
[ennie] domina nostra . et coram paribus nostris . et ita quod posuimus 
comitissam in plegium uersus Regin[aldum] et herdes* suos de hac 
donatione warantizand[a]. T[estibus] . Ipsa Isabel comitissa . Rogero 
de Fraxnet[o] . Adam de Puning Rad[ulfo] de Freuill’ . Symone de 
Petrapont[e] . Drogon[e] de Freuill’ . Willelmo de Bellomont[e] . Phi- 
lippo de Fokinton’ . Bartholom[eo] de Chaisn[eto] . Willelmo de Ely . 
Bernard[o] de Blenuil’ . Ric[ardo] de Petrapont[e] . Mauricio de Cassell’ 
. Rad[ulfo] de Caisn[eto] . Helya de Steinford’ . Patricio adhuc puero 
filio com[itis] Patric[ii] . Willelmo de Wenneuall’ . Rad[ulfo] de Acra . 

1 Byacton’s Note Book, no. 1686. For an examination of this case and 

notes on the early rectors of Harthill see Fastt Parochiales, Y.R.S., 1, pp- 
122-3. It will be noticed that Maurice saceydos of Harthill, probably the 
rector, witnessed the present charter. 


2 Fasti Parochiales, 1, 123. 
3 Sic ; for heredes. 


PLATE XXI 


Brera po fm gi Loo ll {10 biout . Rese sho 
Slerume Suc aN Cerin Ki. Peli gual bre mid Scfecinsa faa’ 
corany Cena mean — Ly cum Ont; ang Serpamescl In he 
ys Dpkirw.| Jn Henord?.| n CAmprs she Pree bs Min Ad eae rear 
Ase. nape ri . 3.11 os ; 
\he 1 therd 115 Arenendu plum quarce m1 
. cnet meas. ex ine fisher x lsbe a re aut | 


ries 


: tac mle se eee tahoe Swapy tio nto Fy \oe 9 Ness 
Dipset 22 dane A> jrads (en oh es a 
f : Bre nee fade. 1a Ye ele shar docad que ¢ yer x 
) ‘ wait) ane Mfecurnsony » Gkoctnd da 
asmnaes he deals (uss corre Ones Tyoms Bi ato 
— \yd bsscelb Nay na wal “coun and nes Ara ® 
“peut omeerhany, ro flegre sey Rew shave | sos ac honacroe 
Ps. € Span ls Gomrcl hag HL asenee Tone rte 
Woe fret. % yee perpen Srsso% Hefrentt GAL WRllews: 
Mardin Baedbded, eco, Natl detly Bead n Blac 
A be Vecpe Monee be ip i WeXarla R2 sche beSeuniad 


rat 6 ea Mise cow 


sae 
7 pas 


= es is 


No. 111 


Size 7 by 122 in. 


NEUFMARCHE FEES 159 


Hugone Burdl’ . Roberto de Erleham . Richero . Willelmo coco . Wigaro 
camerario . Roberto filio Sym[onis] . Toma filio Hugonis . Jordan[o] 
de Furn’ . Adam de Miclebrinc . Will[elmo] de Cuningburg’ . Willelmo 
de Bailol’? . Roberto Albo . Willelmo cler[ico] de Dierh[am] . Adam 
clerico de Tefford’ ; 


Seal: green wax coated brown, attached by four strands of purple 
and white cord; central fragment of an equestrian seal, showing the rider, 
a shield in front of him, and the neck of the horse. 


The deduction that the grantor of this charter was Elias de Bosville, 
who gave the church of Harthill to Lewes priory (no. 110), is confirmed by 
the statement in the case of 1225, noticed above, that it was Elias de Bosville 
who granted the manor of Harthill to Reginald de Warenne. 

It is likely that the charter was issued after the death of William the 
fourth earl, the countess’s first husband, and before her second marriage to 
Hamelin, the king’s brother, that is to say in the period 1159-64. The fact 
that William son of the grantee was old enough to be associated with his 
father in the oath to the grantor makes any earlier date improbable. Such 
a period, moreover, conforms with the description of the witness Patrick, 
still a boy, son of earl Patrick. Patrick earl of Salisbury, step-father of the 
countess, died in 1168, when he was succeeded by his son William. In two 
charters issued by William earl of Salisbury to Bradenstoke priory, one in 
the lifetime of his mother countess Ela, and the other after her death, mention 
is made of his brother Patrick then dead.! Patrick was therefore a half-brother 
of countess Isabel, as is also shown by a charter issued by her to Southwark 
priory for the souls of her brothers William, Patrick and Philip.’ 

The present charter gives a good example of the use of the word pares 
as signifying the grantor’s fellow military tenants of the honour.’ 

The tenure of Harthill by Reginald de Warenne is shown in a case in 
1199, in which Racius son of Ursellus de Buc was the defendant against 
Ursellus his younger brother in 6 carucates there, which Reginald de Warenne 
had given to their father for homage and service ; a case being mentioned 
by Racius whereby, in the time of Richard de Luci (who died in 1179), he 
had sought his right against Reginald de Warenne who had deforced him, 
and the land had been shared between Reginald and Racius.* 

It has been noted in the introductory observations to this fee that in 
1304 Hugh Bardolf, the descendant of Reginald de Warenne, held land in 
Harthill of John de Neufmarché by the same service of a quarter of a knight 
as is specified in the present charter.5 In 1674 Thomas earl of Danby, after- 
wards the first duke of Leeds, acquired the manor of Harthill ;° this accounts 
for the charter being among the muniments of his descendant. 


i a eg cre TS LL TD 


1 Mon. Ang., vi, 338; the first was witnessed by Philip and Walter, the 
grantor’s brothers. 

2 Watson, Memoirs, i, 163 (see note to no. 80 above). 

3 For this word see F. M. Stenton, English Feudalism, pp. 58-60. 

+ Rot. Cur. Regis, i, 438 ; quoted in E.Y.C., iii, p. 120. 

5 For other references to the Bardolf interest in Harthill, and also to 
that of the family of Buck, see Yorkshire Deeds, vii, pp. 105 et seq., from the 
muniments of the duke of Leeds ; see also H.K.F., iti, 326. 

6 South Yorkshire, i, 141. 


160 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


112. Final concord by which William son of Reginald de Warenne 
quitclaimed to Lewes priory the advowson of the church of Harthill 
and a messuage in that vill, another messuage remaining quit to 
him and his heirs; and in return the priory quitclaimed to him 
and his heirs the advowson of the church of Portslade [Sussex], 
their presentee rendering to the priory 40s. yearly. 

24 Jan. 1190-1 
Feet of Fines, Divers Counties, Ric. I, no. 2. Pd. in Feet of Fines, 


1182-96 (Pipe Roll Soc. vol. xvii), no. 7; and in Yorks. Arch. 
Journal, xi, 174. 


Hec est finalis concordia facta in curia domini regis apud North- 
amt[onam] die Jouis post octabas sancti Ilarii proxima anno regni regis 
Ricardi secundo . coram Hug[one] Bard[ulfo] [and others named] inter 
priorem et conuentum de Lewes per Mainonem camerarium de Lewes | 
loco illorum positum . et Willelmum de Warenn[a] filium Regin[aldi] 
de Warenn[a] . de aduocatione ecclesie de Herthille . vnde placitum fuit 
inter eos in curia domini regis . scilicet quod predictus Willelmus 
quietam clamat de se et heredibus suis . predictis priori et conuentui 
aduocationem prefate ecclesie de Herthille in perpetuam elemosinam . 
ut ad eam personam presentent quam uoluerint . et similiter quietum 
clamat eis vnum masagium in eadem uilla quod Bernard[us] Ragedale 
tenuit . et masagium quod Robf[ertus] clericus tenuit . quietum remanet 
prefato Willelmo et heredibus suis finabiliter cum gardino eiusdem 
masagil . uersus orientalem partem ecclesie de Herthille iuxta cimi- 
terium. Et pro hac concordia predicti prior et conuentus quietam 
clamauerunt predicto Willelmo et heredibus suis in perpetuum aduoca- 
tionem ecclesie de Porteslad[e] ut ad eam [personam] presentent quam 
uoluerint . ita quod persona quam prefatus Willelmus uel heredes sui 
ad prefatam ecclesiam de Portesl[ade] presentauerint . reddet prefatis 
priori et conuentui annuatim quadraginta sol[idos] [in] perpetuam 
elemosinam. 


113. Quitclaim by William son of Reginald de Warenne to Lewes 
priory of all right in the church of Harthill, reserving a messuage 
to him and his heirs. [c. Jan. 1190-1] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 33V. Translation in 
Sai S se 64 labstine yon og d 295. 


Noverint presentes et futuri quod ego Willelmus de Warenn[a] 
filius Reginaldi quietum clamavi Deo et ecclesie sancti Pancratii de 
Lewes et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus, in liberam quietam et 
perpetuam elemosinam, quicquid juris habebam vel clamabam in 
ecclesia de Herthil, ita quod nec ego vel heredes mei ultra aliquid juris 
de eadem ecclesia vel donacione seu presentacione clamabimus sed sit 
libera quieta et absoluta monachorum absque reclamacione mei vel 
heredum meorum pro sua voluntate disponenda in perpetuum, ita 
tamen quod mesuagium quod fuit Roberti clerici cum gardino ejusdem 
mesuagii apud orientalem partem cimiterii michi et heredibus meis 
quietum et solutum absque omni reclamacione monachorum remanebit 
Test[ibus], Hamel[ino] comite War[ennie] et Willelmo filio ejus, Adam 
de Punig’, Rad[ulfo] de Chiltyngtun’, magistro Roberto de Besca[m], 


NEUFMARCHE FEES 161 


Willelmo capellano episcopi, Malgero notario, Ysaac seruiente, Johanne 
de Wdetun’, Henrico sen[escallo], Henrico portario, Joseph’ marescallo, 
et multis aliis. 


(iv) HATFIELD 


114. Gift by Mabel de Tilly, in her widowhood, to Lewes priory of 
the church of Hatfield with its chapel of ‘Thorne. 
[c. 1195-c. 1205] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 303. Abst. in Y.4./,, 
SRR! OLD. 


; Sciant omnes tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Mabilia de 
Tylly tempore viduetatis mee dedi et concessi et hac presenti carta mea 
confirmavi, intuitu Dei et pro salute anime mee re antecessorum me- 
-orum, Deo et ecclesie sancti Pancratii de Lewes et monachis ibidem Deo 
servientibus ecclesiam! de Haitfeld cum capella sua de Torna et omni- 
bus aliis pertinenciis, in puram et perpetuam elemosinam liberam et 
quietam ab omni seculari servicio et exaccione. Hiis testibus, Waltero 
et Rad{ulfo] et Ranulp[ho] capellanis, Thoma de Trunflet, Thoma de 
Cukewald, Thoma dispensatore, Willelmo de Hekynton’, Rad[ulfo] 
fratre suo, Thoma Grangar’, Warin[o] de Stelhall, Oton[e] de Bramyth, 
Willelmo fratre suo, Thoma de Alkeron’, Thoma Ryling, Thoma clerico 
de Balna, Thoma preposito, et multis altis. 


The jurors in the case of 1225 relating to the church of Hatfield, recorded 
in the introduction to the present section, stated that William son of Raven, 
who made a presentation to the church, gave the manor in marriage to his 
daughter Mabel and her husband Otes de Tilly. The proceedings give further 
details. The prior of Lewes produced the charter of William earl de Warenne 
the elder, naming the church of Conisborough, and confirmation charters 
issued by kings, earls and archbishops, and also a charter of Mabel de Tilly, 
erandmother of Adam de Novo Mercato, the claimant (presumably the 
present charter). Adam said that none of these charters ought to damage 
him, for in none was the church of Hatfield mentioned,” nor did that church 
belong to the church of Conisborough. The prior further said that Mabel 
was never in seisin of the advowson so as to present a clerk, but both before 
and after her gift the prior and convent were in seisin of the advowson by 
the gift of the ancestors of earl de Warenne, whom he vouched to warranty. 
The claimant won his case partly because of the default of the earl, and partly 
because of the presentation made by Mabel’s father of the clerk who last 
died as rector. 

For the date of the present charter see nos. 119, 120 below and the 
notes thereto. 


er eee 


1 ecclesias, MS.; but the heading is De ecclesia de Hetfeld Ebor’ dioc’. 

2 It was, however, specified in the charters of the third earl (no. 34), 
earl Hamelin (no. 55), abp Geoffrey (no. 60), and in the present one. 

Adam also said that Mabel issued her charter in the lifetime of Otes de 
Tilly, her husband, which in view of her express statement seems Curious. 


162 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


115. Quitclaim by the abbot and prior of Roche to Thomas de Bosville, 
an executor of H. de Hatfield, of all matters pertaining to the 
latter’s testament. At Doncaster. 13 November 1227. 


MS Dodsworth viii, f. 309. } 


Anno gracie M°cc°xx°vij° die Sabbati proxima post festum sancti 
Martini computaverunt executores H. de Haitfeld et omnibus ad testa- 
mentum dicti H. pertinentibus solutis et rite peractis quietum clama- 
verunt abb[as] et prior de Rupe T. de Boseuill’ executorem suum de 
omnibus ad dictum testamentum pertinentibus. Actum apud Donec- 
[astram]. In hujus rei testimonium executores huic scripto sigilla sua 
apposuerunt et apponi fecerunt sigilla aliorum prop[riJorum virorum 
tunc presentium. | 


It is not unlikely that H. de Haitfeld can be identified with Hugh de 
Hatfield, rector of Hatfield and also of Carlton Scroop, who appears to have 
died c. 1224 (see p. 144 above). 


§2.° THEO PRESCHEVILLECRPEER 


In 1242-43, among the fees of the honour of earl de Warenne 
in Yorkshire, Ralph de Frescevill’ held half a knight’s fee in 
Cusworth, par. Sprotborough.2. On 3 Nov. 1237, in return for a. 
quitclaim of half a knight’s fee in Dorking, Ralph de Frescheville 
(Freschenevil) was granted by William earl de Warenne 7/7. 10s. 2d. 
worth of land and rents in Cusworth, namely 124 bovates and 
half an acre of land held by ten tenants (mentioned by name), 
together with the said tenants,® as the earl then held them ; to hold 
by the service of half a knight’s fee. It is clear that this was the 
origin of Ralph’s tenure in 1242-43 and constituted a new feoffment 
by military service. The land was approximately a moiety of the 
3 carucates which were soke of Conisborough in 1086. 

Ralph de Frescheville was son of Anker de Frescheville, who 
died in 1218, by Juliana daughter of Hubert son of Ralph, lord of 
a moiety of the barony of Crich, co. Derby ; he died shortly before 
5 Feb. 1260-1, and was succeeded by his son Anker, who acquired 
an interest in Staveley, co. Derby, by marriage with Amice Musard.6 
The principal interests of the family lay in Derbyshire and Notting- 
hamshire, and the half-knight’s fee held of the honour of Warenne — 
was relatively unimportant. Except for the fact that Cusworth 
was included among the places where Ralph de Frescheville was 

1 Heading : Carta Thome de Boseuil’. 

2 Bk. of Fees, p. 1101 ; and see above. 

3 That is to say their services. 

* Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 173; divers counties, Surrey and York. 
This is cited by Farrer in H.K.F., iii, 419, but not quite correctly as he gives 
the land as being in Conisborough and not Cusworth. 

° ALK.F., iti, 419 ; Complete Peerage, new ed., v, 575, where there is a 
detailed account of the family. The barony of Crich was in two moieties in 
1212, one held by Hubert son of Ralph and the other by Leonia de Stuteville, 


each 15 knights’ fees (Bk. of Fees, p. 153) ; Ralph de Frescheville inherited 
the former moiety in 1225 (Exc. e Rot. Fin., i, 134). 


FRESCHEVILLE FEE 163 


granted free warren in 1251,! no further details of his tenure there 
are available ;: and as Farrer notes, it does not appear when the 
Frescheville interest in Cusworth was alienated, nor to whom.’ 


$3. MISCELLANEOUS 


The charters printed in this section relate to lands of the 
honour of Conisborough in which no interest is known to have 
been held by Adam de Neufmarché in 1242-43. They include three 
charters issued by his grandmother Mabel widow of Otes de Tilly 
dealing with land in Braithwell and Bramley (nos. 118-20) ; and 
several charters relating to the churches or chapels of Braithwell, 
Dinnington and Kirk Sandal, which were among those given to 
Lewes priory, and to lands in which the priory acquired an interest. 
It is probable that the lands given in the two original charters 
relating to Thorne had formed part of the honorial demesne in the 
time of earl Hamelin ; a portion can be identified as the subject of 
his gift to one of the minor officials of the honour. 


The following notes bearing on the early history of Dalton, 
par. Rotherham, are illustrative of another member of the honour 
in which land was not held by knight-service. 

In 1218-19 a case was heard before the justices in eyre at 
York in which Robert de Wentworth was plaintiff against Ralph 
de Ecclesall for raising a mill-pool in Dalton to the damage of 
Robert’s tenement there ; the jurors, who found for the plaintiff, 
said that Ralph and Robert shared the pool, and that Ralph 
impleaded Robert in his lord’s court for his whole land, so that a 
duel was pledged, armed and fought therein and a concord was 
made ‘per finem duelli’ by which Robert acknowledged that the 
land was the right of Ralph, who granted him a moiety of the land 
with a moiety of the mill to hold of Ralph, Robert doing homage 
therefor. Shortly afterwards Ralph, complaining that the fine had 
not been kept, offered himself against the bailiffs of earl de Warenne 
of the court of Conisborough for the production of a record of the 
case, which related to 15 bovates of land with appurtenances in 
Dalton, whereof a duel had been waged, and against Robert de 
Wentworth for his presence to hear the record and answer touching 
the fine ; neither the bailiffs nor Robert appeared ; and the sheriff 
stated that he had given orders about the matter to Matthew de 
Shepley, the earl’s steward and to the other bailiffs of the court 
of Conisborough, and that Robert had been summoned ; it was 
therefore considered that the sheriff should attach the bailiffs and 
Robert to be present in three weeks from St. John’s day.‘ 


1 Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1226-57, p. 371. 

2 H.K.F., iii, 419; cf. South Yorkshire, i, 349. 

3 Rolls of the Justices in Eyre for Yorks., Selden Soc. vol. lvi, no. 94. 

4 Bracton’s Note Book, no. 26; from roll not extant, East. and Trin. 
terms 1219, at Westminster. 


164 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Two other cases relating to Dalton were heard before the 
justices in eyre in 1218-19. In the first, in an assize of mort d’ 
ancestor to inquire whether William de Wentworth, father of 
Robert, died seised of a moiety of a mill there, which moiety Ralph 
de Ecclesall was holding, the jurors said that William did not die 
within the assize ; and therefore Robert was in mercy for a false 
claim.t In the second, in an assize of novel disseisin to inquire 
whether W{illiam] carl de Warenne unjustly disseised Ralph de 
Ecclesall of his free tenement in Dalton, and Matthew de Shepley, 
the earl’s steward, was present, the assize was put in, respite until 
the octave of the Purification for default of recognitors.? 

The family of FitzWilliam acquired an interest in Dalton. 
In the middle of the thirteenth century John de Warenne, earl of 
Surrey, granted to Sir Thomas FitzWilliam the services of a large 
number of tenants there and in Greasbrough, saving their suit of 
court at Conisborough ; paying yearly a pair of gilt spurs or 6d. 
and Id. for scutage when due.4 


(1) BRAITHWELL AND BRAMLEY 


116. Notification by P. de Melide that the dispute which had been 
referred to him by the pope between master G. [?] Scottus and 
Richard the clerk of Braithwell in respect of the tithes of Bramley 
[par. Braithwell] and a yearly pension of 10s., unpaid to the said 
G. by Richard for three years, had been settled as follows: Richard 
would pay to G. 25 marks in respect of the default at specified 
times in the year [?] 1179; and in return G. would never raise a 
demand for the tithes, saving his right if Richard died first ‘or 
lost possession of them. 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. Po xv,i,.302. Abst. im Y¥oaeye 
yee olp, 


Universis sancte matris ecclesie filiis P. dictus de Melide salutem. 
Ad universitatis vestre noticiam volo pervenire causam que vertebatur 
inter magistrum G. Scottu[m]® et Ric[ardum] clericum de Bradewell’ 
super decimis de Bramelia et x. solidorum pensione annua per tres 
annos prefato G. a dicto R[icardo] non soluta, parvitati mee a Romano 
pontifice commissam, sub hac pacis forma fuisse sopitam. Prefatus 
siquidem R[icardus] racione canonis non soluti prefato G. duas marcas 
et dimidiam fide media certis terminis se soluturum cavit anno ab 
incarnacione Domini M°Ixx.ix.,® dimidiam scilicet marcam ad festum 
translacionis sancti Cuthberti, dimidiam marcam ad sequens festum 
sancti Dionisii, dimidiam marcam ad natale Domini, et de marca residua 
ante proxime sequens Pasca ei satisfaciet. Supradictus vero G. vice 
versa fide media sepedicto R[icardo] cavit quod super memoratis decimis 


i Rolls of the-Jusices-. Sie , ut sup., no. 95. 

2 Toid., no. 185. 

3 South Yorkshire, ii, 36. 

RUNG ASY & Sal, ae 

° The reading is uncertain. It may be Stoctun ; but the absence of a ‘de’ 
makes Scottum more likely. 

® Sic ; it is probable that a C has been omitted in error. 


BRAITHWELL AND BRAMLEY 165 


nullo tempore vite sue controversiam ei movebit, salvis tamen decimis 
prescriptis memorato G. si R[icardus] premoriatur vel alio modo a 
predictarum decimarum possessione deciderit. Et ut hec composicio 
perpetuis temporibus illibata persistat eam presentis scripti patrocinio 
et sigilli mei appensione corroboravi. Hiis testibus, A. priore sancti 
Cuthberti de Wyrkishope, Gilberto canonico suo, Ric[ardo] presbitero 
de Bradewell’, Adam de Claiurthe, A. clerico de Steintun, Robert[o] 
clerico, Roberto diacono de Donecastre, magistro Bernardo, magistro 
Roberto, magistro Petro, Alexand[ro], Germano presbitero, Joseph 
presbitero, et multis aliis. 


The date 1079 given in this document may, perhaps, be an error for 
1179. An elucidation of the date is not assisted by the first witness, whose 
name does not occur in the recorded list of the priors of Worksop.? 

A dispute about the tithes of Bramley is the subject of the next document, 
where a dispute about the chapel and tithes of Greasbrough is also mentioned. 
Tithes in Greasbrough were included in one of the confirmation charters of 
earl Hamelin to Lewes priory (no. 55), and in the confirmation of archbishop 
Geoffrey (no. 60). The place is in the parish of Rotherham, lying quite close 
on the north ; and Bramley, in the parish of Braithwell, one of the daughter 
churches of Conisborough, lies about 4 miles to the east of Rotherham. It is 
possible, therefore, that mag. G. [?] Scottus and mag. Walter de Hadintun 
were successive rectors of Rotherham, possessing interests in those places 
or in portions of them, which may have clashed with those of Lewes priory 
due to the benefactions of the earls de Warenne. With regard to the tithes of 
Bramley, these were assigned to the perpetual vicarage of Braithwell in the 
ordination made by archbishop Gray on 28 Feb. 1242-3.? 


117. Notification by William abbot of Newminster and Acharius 
prior of Tynemouth of the settlement of the dispute between 
master Walter de Hadintun and Lewes priory in respect of the 
tithes of Bramley and the seizure of a yearly rent of a mark from 
the church of Conisborough, by which for the sake of peace the 
prior and convent granted to Walter a yearly rent of 5 marks at 
the hand of their warden of Conisborough until they should 
assign to him an equivalent rent in Yorkshire ; and the claim which 
Walter had against the priory in respect of the chapel of Greas- 
brough and certain tithes was withdrawn and included in the 
agreement. [1188-1200] 


~ Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 302. Abst. in 
Y.A.J., xxxi, 315. 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Willelmus Dei gracia abbas 
de Nouo Monasterio et Acharius prior de Thinemuthe eternam in 
Domino salutem. Cum ex mandato summi pontificis inter magistrum 
Walt[erum] de Hadintun et priorem et monachos de Lewes nobis 
super decimis et obvencionibus de Bramelia et super spoliacione 
redditus unius marce annue de ecclesia de Cunningburgh’ causa 
commissa fuisset canonice amicabili composicione ita sopita est, 


1 V.C.H. Notts., ii, 129. 
2 Reg. Gray, p. 100; and, for the date, Reg. Corbridge, i, 49. 


166 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


scilicet quod predicti prior et monachi concesserunt et carta sua 
confirmaverunt dicto Willelmo! pro bono pacis redditus v. marcarum 
per manus custodis sui de Cunnygburgh’ quicquis fuerit per tempus 
annuatim apud Connygburgh’ percipiendarum, scilicet ad Pentecosten 
duas marcas et dimidiam et ad sanctum Martinum duas marcas et 
dimidiam, donec eidem lo[co] competenti tantundem redditus in 
Ebor[aci] sira assignaverint. Preterea causam quam habuit dictus 
Willelmus! adversus dictos monachos de capella de Greysebrok et de 
quibusdam decimis et obvencionibus eis remisit et sub predicta com- 
posicione pacis inclusit. _Memoratus vero Willelmus omnia scripta 
quibus monachos sepefatos impetebat coram nobis resignavit. Idem 
eciam Willelmus tactis sacrosanctis coram nobis juravit quod super hiis 
de quibus composicio facta est nunquam per se vel per alium questiones 
eis movebit nisi forte quod absit sepefati monachi in hac composicione 
contra factum suum venire presumpserint. Et ut? hec pacis forma 
firma et illibata conservaretur tam a Willelmo de Wirmegay speciali 
procuratore monachorum de Lewes in hac causa quam a pretaxato 
Willelmo prestitum est sacramentum. Test[ibus], Bertino® priore 
Dunhelm{ensi], Patricio subpriore, Helya sacrist[a], Robert[o] hostilar’, 
Siluestro, Petro cancellar[io] monachis Dunhelm[ensibus], Willelmo de 
Hanepole, Robert[o] de Reinp’, fratribus, magistro Robert[o] de 
Haddinton’, magistro Alano Rychemond’, Nigillo, Rogero, Adam 
capellanis, Robert[o] clerico de Frondonte, Henr[ico] clerico, Alanfo] 
de Strie, Steph[ano] portario, Petro Ording de Lond, Henr[ico] de 
Bois, Robert[o] de Beil, Alex[andro] ferrario, Ric[ardo] Botild, Walleys 
de Wybis, Willelmo Pipekyn, Simo[ne] Doget, Dogge, et aliis. 


William was abbot of Newminster from ante 1195 to ante 1208 ;4 
Acharius was prior of Tynemouth from ante 1189 to ante 1200 ;5 and Bertram 
succeeded Germanus as prior of Durham,® holding office from c. 1188 to 
1212.7 Mag. Walter de Hadintun witnessed a charter of prior Germanus 
and several of prior Bertram.® 


118. Gift by Mabel widow of Otes de Tilly to Felley priory, for the 
souls of her parents and of Otes de Tilly her husband, of 2 bovates 
of land in Balby, 2 bovates in Loversall, 14 bovates in Braithwell, 
a further 24 bovates, and 2 bovates in Bramley, saving the forinsec 
service due from the lands in Braithwell and Bramley to the earl 
[de Warenne]. [1196-1201] 


Felley Chartulary, B.M. Add. MS. 36872, f. 68. 


Sic, evidently in error. 

nec, MS. 

Recte Bertramo. Some of the other witnesses’ names may be corrupt. 
Arch. Aeliana, 3rd ser., xii, 207. 

Northumberland County History, vii, 122. 

Scriptores Tves, Surtees Soc., p. 8. 

Mon. Ang., i, 230. 

Feod. Prior. Dunelm., Surtees Soc., pp. 16”, 23n, 173n, etc. ; mag. 
Alan de Richemunde and mag. Robert de Hadintone also occur. 


an nut WH 


BRAITHWELL AND BRAMLEY 167 


Sciant tam presentes quam futuri quod ego domina Mabilia 
quondam uxor Otonis de Tilli dedi et concessi et hac presenti carta mea 
confirmavi Deo et ecclesie sancte Marie de Felleya et canonicis ibidem 
Deo servientibus in puram et perpetuam elemosinam pro anima patris 
mei et matris mee et pro anima Otonis de Tilli viri mei et pro salute 
anime mee et heredum et omnium parentum meorum, scilicet duas 
bovatas terre in Ballebi cum pertinenciis suis quas Willelmus de Ballebi 
tenet, reddentes sex solidos per annum domui Felleye ad duos terminos 
tres solidos ad festum sancti Michaelis et tres solidos ad Pascha quorum 
quatuor solidos predicta domus de Felleya domine Albrede de Lisurs 
annuatim persolvet; et duas bovatas terre in Luuresale quas Rogerus 
de Wermedeswithe! tenet, reddentes duos solidos et unum nisum ruffum 
ad festum sancti Jacobi; et unam bovatam terre et dimidiam in Breith- 
wel’ quas Gregorius de Breithwelle tenet, reddentes sex solidos. per 
annum tres solidos ad Pascha et tres solidos ad festum sancti Michaelis ; 
et unam bovatam terre et dimidiam quas Petrus filius Henrici tenet, 
reddentes sex solidos ad eosdem terminos; et unam bovatam quam 
Willelmus Hedric tenet, reddentem quinque solidos per annum ad eosdem 
terminos ; et terram quam Ricardus le Mazon tenet, reddentem xijd. ad 
eosdem terminos; et duas bovatas terre in Bramlei quas Ricardus de 
Bramlei tenet, reddentes xijd. ad eosdem terminos, salvo forinseco 
servicio de supradictis terris de Breithwell ad dominum comitem 
pertinente et de duabus bovatis in Bramlei. Ego vero Mabilia de Tilli 
et heredes mei hanc donacionem contra omnes homines warantizabimus. 
Ft ut ista donacio firma et stabilis permaneat sigilli mei impressione 
corroboravi. Hiis testibus, Ada de Tornoure archidiacono Eboracensi, 
Geremia de Tornil tunc officiali, Petro et Oda personis de Doncastre, 
Ada persona de Bolton, Ada persona de Malteby, E. persona de Edling- 
tun, Radulpho et Waltero tunc capellanis apud Thorp, Willelmo de Liuet, 
Hugone filio Apoll[iti], Willelmo de Waddewithe,! Had’ filio Roberti, 
Willelmo de Ballebi, Rogero de Wermedeswithe,' Radulpho de 
Waulderseg’, Thoma et Willelmo seruientibus domine, Ham[one] 
clerico de Doncastre, Gilberto Haste vilen’, et aliis. 


The name and style of the first witness give the limits of- date+. The 
third and fourth witnesses were mag. Peter of Doncaster and Eudo, joint 
rectors of Doncaster in 1207, the former occurring as rector c. 1180-85. 
Adam appears to be an unrecorded rector of Bolton-upon-Dearne. The 
seventh witness was evidently Elias who occurs as an early rector of 
Edlington.* 

Dame Aubreye de Lisours, mentioned in the charter as apparently 
alive, was the daughter and heir of Robert de Lisours by Aubreye de Lascy ; 
she succeeded her first cousin Robert de Lascy in the lordship of the honour 
of Pontefract in 1193, and was living in 1200.5 The land in Balby and also 
that in Loversall in all probability formed part of her inheritance from her 


1 The last syllable should presumably be -wrthe. 

2 Y.A.J., xxxvi, 427. 

3 Fastt Parochiales, Y.R.S., i, pp. 87, 91 ; and see nos. 127-8 below. 
2 1bid., po 10%. 

Bee, Y.C., ii, pp; 199, 336. 


168 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


father.1 It can be suggested that the interest of Maud wife of Otes de Tilly, 
the grantor of the present charter, was derived from her father William son 
of Raven. 

Maud’s interests in Braithwell and Bramley were held of the honour of 
Conisborough; and the comes mentioned in the charter is certainly earl de 
Warenne. These interests may have been due to her succession to the 
holdings of Elias de Bosville, whose interest in Braithwell can be deduced 
from a statement in charter no. 121 below. 


119. Gift by Mabel widow of Otes de Tilly to Roche abbey of all her 
demesne of Bramley computed at 3 bovates of land, with appur- 
tenances as much as belonged to 3 other bovates there ; the monks 
to be restricted to 100 sheep in the common pasture of the vill; 
the donor and her heirs not to be prevented from making their 
profit from any other fee there; and in default of warranty they 
would give 10. of silver. [1188-c. 1205] 

MS. Dodsworth viii, f. 308Y, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
‘Lower, York: also ix. fc L71Y and clit. 114.2 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis presentibus et futuris Mabilia 

quondam uxor Othonis de Tilli salutem. Sciatis me consilio et concensu 

heredum meorum dedisse et hac carta mea confirmasse Deo et sancte 

Marie et monachis de Rupe, pro salute anime mee et domini mei Othonis 

de Tilli et antecessorum meorum et heredum meorum, totum dominium 

meum de Brameleia quod computatur pro tribus bovatis terre cum 
pertinenciis suis, scilicet quantum pertinet ad tres alias bovatas predicte 
ville in bosco et in plano in pratis et pasturis et ceteris aisiamentis ad 

-eandem villam pertinentibus, in puram et perpetuam elemosinam 

liberam et quietam ab omni servitio et ab omni re que ad terram pertinet. 

Et sciendum quod prefati monachi non habebunt in communi pasture? 

predicte ville nisi centum oves. Et ego et heredes mei non impediemur 

propter hanc donacionem facere proficuum nostrum de alio feudo 
nostro in eadem villa. Et nos scilicet ego et heredes mei warantizabimus 
prefatis monachis predictam terram et defendemus adversus omnes; et 
si forte ego et heredes mei non possimus terram ipsam prenominatis 
monachis warantizare tunc dabimus eis decem libras argenti. Hiis 
testibus, magistro Albino de Hanepol, Lamberto* de Sudkirkebi, 

Hugone decano de Haitfeld, Johanne de Builli et Hugone fratre ejus, 

Othone filio Othonis de Tilli et Radulfo fratre ejus, Willelmo’ filio 

Hugonis.°® 
1 In 1086 lands in Balby and Loversall were soke of the manor of 

Hexthorpe held by Nigel Fossard; and Fulk de Lisours was said to hold 2 bov. 

in Loversall, soke of that manor (V.C.H. Yorks., ii, pp. 228, 294). 

2 See the introductory notes to $1 above. 

BLO. 

4 Dodsworth’s text in ix is copied from that in clii. There are a few 
small variations from vili which is the text printed here; the variations of 
any importance are noted below. 

5 pastura, ix. 

6 magistro Lamberto, ix. Presumably the master Lambert who witnessed 
nos. 127-8. 

7 Waltervo, ix. 


8 Dodsw. in viii notes the endorsement : cavta Mabilie de Thorp de 
iijbus bouat’? de dominio in puritate Bramel’. 


BRAITHWELL AND BRAMLEY 169 


Evidence is given in the introductory notes to the Neufmarché fees (§1) 
that Otes de Tilly, Mabel’s husband, was alive in 1188, and Mabel herself in 
1203 ; and it is unlikely that she lived much longer. The first witness occurs 
as a witness to charters in the period 1170-85.1_ The third witness can be 
identified as Hugh rector of Hatfield, who had been presented thereto by 
Mabel’s father, William son of Raven (p. 144 above) ; and his style shows 
that he was the rural dean, presumably of Doncaster. 


120. Confirmation by Mabel widow of Otes de Tilly to Roche abbey 
of all the land which Robert Morker her [?] nephew had given in 


the territory of Bramley. [c. 1195-c. 1205] 
MS. Dodwsorth viii, f. 308, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis presentibus et futuris Mabilia 
quondam uxor Othonis de Tilli salutem. Noveritis me concessisse et 
hac carta mea confirmasse Deo et sancte Marie et monachis de Rupe, pro 
salute anime mee et omnium antecessorum et heredum meorum, in liber- 
am et perpetuam elemosinam totam terram sine retenemento quam 
Robertus Morker nepos meus eis dedit et carta sua confimavit in 
territorio de Bramlaia cum omnibus pertinentiis et libertatibus et com- 
munis et aisiamentis suis ubique infra villam et extra salvo forinseco 
servitio. Hiis testibus, Radulfo et Waltero et Rannulfo capellanis, 
domino Ada de Nouo Mercato et Henrico fratre ejus, Henrico de 
Hadwic, Thoma de Trumflet, Bladewrth,? Othone de Builli, Othone de 
Ruhale, Henrico de Vernuil, Ricardo preposito de Bramleia.* 


The earlier limit of date is suggested by the fact that Adam de Neuf- 
marché, the grantor’s grandson, is described as dominus. Robert Morker 
was presumably the man of that name who had an interest in Normanton 
(see that section in Chapter IV) ; but no explanation is available for his 
description as the grantor’s nepos, which evidently means nephew and not 
grandson, for it is reasonably certain that Denise, successively wife of Henry 
de Neufmarché and Henry du Puiset, was her only daughter. It may be 
that William son of Raven had besides Mabel wife of Otes de Tilly another 
daughter who was the mother of Robert Morker. 

The first three witnesses and the seventh occur in another charter of 


the grantor in her widowhood (no. 114). 


121. Gift by Henry son of Robert son of Gerbod de Braithwell to 
Maurice son of Augustin de Clifton of a bovate of land in Braith- 
well; to hold by knight-service on the basis of 32 bovates to a 
knight’s fee; warranty or an equivalent exchange from the fee 


formerly belonging to Elias de Bosville. [c. 1200-c. 1210} 
Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 294V. Abst. in Y.A./J., 
xxx, oul. 


eee 


1 E.Y.C., iii, nos. 1733-4. err 
2 This name inserted above the line ; no explanation 1s available. 
3 Dodsw. gives a note of the seal, bearing a female figure with a hawk 


on her left hand and a fleur-de-lis in her right. 


170 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Omnibus visuris vel audituris litteras has Henricus filius Roberti 
filii Gerbodi de Bradewell’ salutem. Sciatis me dedisse et concessisse 
et hac presenti carta mea confirmasse Moricio filio Augustini de Clyftun 
et heredibus suis unam bovatam terre in Bradewell’ cum omnibus 
pertinenciis suis in bosco et plano in pratis et pasturis et omnibus alliis 
aisiamentis preter toftum illam,! scilicet que fuit Hug[onis] armigeri 
sicuti jacet in teritorio de Bradewell’; habendam et tenend[am] de me 
et heredibus meis libere et quiete in feodo milit[is], reddendo mihi et 
heredibus meis quantum pertinet ad unam bovatam terre de scutagio 
unde triginta due bovate terre faciunt feodum milit[is]. Ego vero 
Henricus et heredes mei warantizabimus predicto Moricio et heredibus 
suis predictam bovatam terre vel esscangium ad valorem faciemus, 
scilicet de feodo quod fuit Elye de Boseuilla; pro ista vero donacione et 
concessione et confirmacione et homagio suo dedit mihi predictus 
Moricius quinque marcas argenti in gersonam. Hiis testibus, Willelmo 
de Lyuet, Willelmo filio ejus, Ade! de Miclebrinc, Hug[one] fratre suo, 
Roberto filio ejus, Willelmo de Morthyng, Rogero de Rodes, Petro de 
Miclebrinc, Robert[o] de Berhg’, Ade! et Alexand[ro] filiis ejus, 
Willelmo de Rains, Willelmo clerico de Bradewelle, Robert[o] Picot 
clerico de Barneburg’, Elya clerico, Willelmo de Warmesf[ord], Alano 
de Clyftun, Willelmo filio Gladewini, Willelmo filio Engelram, Ric[ardo] 
fratre ejus, Elya clerico de Edlingtun, et multis aliis. 


Charters issued by Gerbod and his son William to Nostell priory, ante 
1158, are printed at nos. 106, 107. Robert son of Gerbod witnessed a charter 
of earl Hamelin, 1164-96 (no. 70). The first two witnesses occur together in 
a charter of the sixth earl, 1202-18 (no. 90). This charter is earlier than 
no. 122. 


122. Sale and quitclaim by Maurice de Clifton to Richard de Hauville 
of all right in the bovate of land in Braithwell which he held of 
Henry son of Robert de Braithwell; to hold of the heirs of the 


said Henry. [1202-c. 1210] 
Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 294. Abst. in Y.A./J., 
xxxi, 299. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Mauricius de Clyftun vendidi 
et abjuravi et quietum clamavi de me et heredibus meis imperpetuum 
Ric[ardo] de Hauuill’ et heredibus suis totum jus et totum clamium 
quod habui in illa bovata terre cum omnibus pertinenciis suis in 
Bradewell’ quam tenui de Henrico filio Roberti de Bradewell’ sicuti 
jacet in teritorio de Bradewell’ preter toftum qui fuit Hugonis armigeri; 
tenend[am] de heredibus e} j[us]dem Henrici sibi et heredibus suis in 
feudo et hereditate libere et quiete in bosco in plano in pascuis in pratis 
et in omnibus aisiamentis et libertatibus ad predictam bovatam terre 
pertinentibus, faciendo forinsecum servicium quantum pertinet ad 
unam bovatam terre in eadem villa de Bradewelle pro omni servicio. 
Ego autem Mauricius prenominatus et heredes mei warantizabimus 
predicto Ricardo] et heredibus suis prenominatam bovatam terre cum 
pertinenciis contra omnes homines ; pro hac autem vendicione et quieta 
clamacione dedit mihi idem Ric[ardus] quinque marcas argenti in mea 

LnSic. 


BRAITHWELL AND BRAMLEY 171 


magna necessitate. Hiis testibus, Thoma! de Horbfiri] tunc sen[escallo], 
Mauuesin’ de Hersyn, Will[elmo] de Mordig, Robert[o] de Wynte- 
word, Willfelmo] de Bradewelle, Nich[olao] de Sancto Paulo, et aliis. 


Thomas de Horbury was the sixth earl’s steward not later than c. 1210 ; 
see Chapter V. The tenendum clause shows that Henry, the grantor of the 
previous charter, was now dead. Richard de Hauville is probably the man 
of that name who was plaintiff in a case relating to Liversedge and Batley, 
1218-19.2 Shortly before Michaelmas 1243, with the assent of Cecily his 
wife, he made an agreement with Albert, prior of Lewes, for the demise to 
the priory of a bovate of land in Braithwell.3 In 1289 Elias de Hauville, 
presumably his descendant, was granted a market and fair at his manor of 
Braithwell and free warren in his demesne lands of that manor and of 
Shelswell, co. Oxford ;+ in the latter place he held a knight’s fee as a sub- 
tenure of the earl of Gloucester in 1284-85.° 


123. Gift by Thomas son of Aytrop de Braithwell to Lewes priory of 
his meadow in the field of Braithwell within specified bounds. 
[eal230} 
Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS, Vesp. F. xv, f. 293Y. Abst. in Y.A./., 
REX ZOU. 

Omnibus sancte matricis ecclesie filiis hoc scriptum visuris vel 
audituris Thomas filius Aytrop’ de Bradewell’ salutem. Noverit 
universitas vestra me dedisse et concessisse et hac presenti carta mea 
confirmasse pro salute anime mee et antecessorum meorum et success- 
orum Deo et ecclesie sancti Pancracii de Lewes et domino priori et 
conventui ibidem Deo servientibus in puram et perpetuam elemosinam 
totum pratum meum in campo de Bradewelle quod jacet inter pratum 
domini prioris de Lewes propinquius ex una parte et culturas ville de 
Bradewell’ ex alia parte propinquiores ; tenendum et habendum libere 
et quiete et pacifice et integre absque omni servicio et seculari exaccione 
et demanda sicut aliqua elemosina liberius et quiecius possit concedi et 
dari. Et ego predictus Thomas et heredes mei warantizabimus et 
defendemus et aquietabimus totum prenominatum pratum domino 
priori de Lewes et conventui ejusdem loci contra omnes homines et 
feminas imperpetuum. Et ut hec mea donacio et carte mee confirmacio 
perpetua gaudeat firmitudine -hoc presens scriptum apposiscione mei 
sigilli corroboravi. Hiis testibus, domino Willelmo de Kurchum tunc 
senescallo domini comitis Warenn[ie], domino Balwyno tunc consta- 
bulario apud Cunisburg’, domino Hugone de Triberge, Ric[ardo] de 
Hauill’ de Brad[ewelle], Willelmo clerico de Bradewelle, Rad[ulfo] de 
Teuelesby, et aliis. 

The grantor was a great-grandson of Gerbod (see note to no. 107). He 
was an unsuccessful plaintiff in a plea of land in Braithwell in 1231.° The 
second witness was Sir Baldwin de Hersy, who was constable of Conisborough 
in 1230 (no. 129). 


1 Thomas, MS. 

2 Rolls of the Justices in Eyre for Yorks., Selden Soc. vol. lvi, no. 559. 
3 Lewes Chartulary, f. 295; Y.A.J., xxxi, 301. 

4 Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1257-1300, p. 339. 

5 Feudal Aids, iv, 157. °® H.K.F. MS. citing Assize Roll 1042, m. 22, 


|g ps HONOUR OF WARENNE 


(ii) CONISBOROUGH 


124. Gift by Robert Brito of Denaby [par. Mexborough], son of 
Matthew Brito of Denaby, with the assent of Avice his mother 
and William his brother and his other brothers, to Lewes priory 
in frankalmoin of all his ‘cultura’ adjoining the fields of Conis- 
borough called Rauennis Croswang; seal of Avice his mother. 

[? c. 1166-1189] 
PLATE XXII 
Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A.340; Cat. Anc. Deeds, i, 38. 
Lewes Chartulary, f. 301V ; abst. in Vi Aas xR lA: 
Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Robertus Brito de Denebi 
salutem. Nouerit uniuersitas uestra . quod ego predictus Robertus 
Brito filius Mathei Britonis de Denebi consilio et consensu et bona 
uoluntate matris mee Avicia et Willelmi fratris mei et ceterorum fratrum 
meorum dedi . et concessi . et hac mea presenti carta confirmaui Deo . et 
sancte Marie . et sancto Pangcratio de Lewis . et monachis Deo ibidem 
famulantibus pro salute anime mee . et patris mei . et matris mee . et 
omnium antecessorum et heredum meorum terram illam scilicet totam 
culturam que marchizat campis de Cuningisburg que anglice uocatur 

Rauennis Cros wang in puram et perpetuam elemosinam liberam et 

quietam ab omni seculari exactione. Hanc uero donationem ego et 

heredes mei warentizabimus contra omnes homines predictis monachis. 

Huius donationis ego Avicia . mater predicti Roberti testis sum et 

fautrix . et confirmatrix . et ad maiorem presentium et futurorum 

noticiam . huic carte sigillun: meum apposui. His testibus . Ricardo 

capellano de Cunigisb[urg] . Henr[ico] Pichot . Willelmo de Stainvilla . 

Reginaldo de bosco . Willelmo Liuet . Willelmo de Denebi et Henrfico] 

fratre suo . Paulino clerico . Johanne de! clerico . Rad[ulfo] de Docingis . 

Adam del mareis . Waltero de Sancta Margareta . Willelmo de Haitun . 

Haregrimo caperario” comitis . Rog[ero] de Cressi . Willelmo de Sais . 

Vnfredo clerico . Gilberto de Haitona . Gaufredo de Musteres 

Thosoldo* de Mistertona . et Rad[ulfo] filio eius . Roberto filio Pagani. 


Tags for two seals, missing. 
No number endorsement except xi. 

For a similar gift of earl Hamelin to the priory, c. 1166-1189, perhaps 
made on the same occasion, see no, 63. For Henry Picot, the second witness, 
see nos. 103-4 ; he was constable of Conisborough in the period 1174-78 
(no. 71). A charter of Robert Brito relating to his interest in West Ardsley 
is printed at no. 134. 


125. Acknowledgement by Reginald son of Elias de Conisborough of 
his receipt from his lord the prior and the convent of Lewes of 

14? acres of land in Conisborough at a yearly rent of 6s. 
[early 13th cent.] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 302Y. Abst. in Y.A./., 
xxxi, 316. 4 


1 Ste. 
2 carpentario, in Chartulary. 
3 Sic: * The date there suggested, c. 1240, is probably too late. 


PLATE XXII 


bzI ‘oN 


var $f Aq $9 2921S een 


Ese - la) ra 
| pen TT hans p ang -Ga pai (aba 
be se ener a 
Seay ee RESTON hc sh pgm St Sin 
a Rock 5 a ila a aan a a ca ey et 
soe PTAA BIR SO Gaining fos OTP TD 

me TOS Te agee ane rt se SS gpuafniun er POR ary 7 SCs Aer | 


CONISBOROUGH 1735 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Reginald[us] filius Helye de 
Conyngburgh’ recepi a domino s[cilicet] priore et conventu sancti 
Pancracii de Lewes terram que fuit Ricardi filii Hug[onis] in Cuning- 
burgh’ in feodo et hereditate pro! homagio meo et servicio, s[cilicet] 
quatuordecim acras et tres percatas, reddendo inde annuatim sex solidos 
ad Pentecost[en] tres solidos et ad festum sancti Martini tres solidos 
pro omnibus consuctudinibus serviciis et demandis. Hunc autem 
redditum juravi me fideliter soiuturum pro! me et heredibus meis et 
ad terminos statutos. Testibus, Ricardo de Wihauuill’, Roberto de 
Petraponte, Simone filio suo, Ric[ardo] de la Combe, Humfredo de 
Ferring’ges, et multis aliis. 


The second witness occurs in a charter of the countess, 1202-03 (no. 86) ; ° 
and the first witnessed a charter of the sixth earl in the period 1203-30 (no. 
88), occurring as his steward in Sussex c. 1230.7 It is at least doubtful 
whether the grantor was the same man as Reginald son of Elias who witnessed 
charters of earl Hamelin and countess Isabel (nos. 76, 85), and who was 
probably Reginald son of Elias de Soothill (see note to no. 153) 


(111) DINNINGTON 


126. Quitclaim by Nicholas son of William de Dinnington to Lewes 
priory of all right in the advowson of the church of Dinnington, 
which belonged to the priory by the gift of his lords the earls 


de Warenne with the consent of his ancestors. (e230) 
Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 299V. Abst. in Y.4. ips 
Re NT So bls 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Nicholaus filius Willelmi de 
Donyngtona dono et concedo et quietum clamo pro me et heredibus 
meis imperpetuum Deo et sancto Pancracio et monachis de Lewes 
totum jus et clamium quod dicebam me habere in advocacione ecclesie 
de Donyngtona per hanc cartam meam pupplice protestans dictam 
advocacionem plene pertinere ad priorem et memoratos monachos 
Lewens[es] de dono dominorum meorum comitum Waren[nie] et 
concensu antecessorum meorum. Testibus, Baldewyno de Hercin 
tunc constabulario de Coningburgh’, Nigello capellano, Simone, 
Johanne marescallo, Benedicto serviente, Joseph’, Matheo, et aliis. 


The first witness was constable of Conisborough in 1230 (no. 129). 


(iv) KIRK SANDAL 


127. Notification by Thomas son of Hugh de [Kirk] Sandal, which 
was a chapel of the mother church of Conisborough, that he had 
quitclaimed to Lewes priory all the claim concerning the said 
chapel, which he had brought forward against the monks, in the 
county court of Yorkshire, in the synod of York, and in the 
[ruri-decanal] chapter of Doncaster before the archdeacon of 
York; for the souls of his parents and his lord William son of 


1 per, MS. 
2 Lewes Chartulary, f. 112 (S.R.S., ii, 27). 


174 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Godric, and because the monks had received him, his wife and 
his two children in the prayers of the church of Lewes. 
[c. 1180-1185] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp: F. xv, f. 298. Abst. in Y.A. ee 
MERE Os. 


Omnibus filiis sancte matris ecclesie tam presentibus quam 
futuris Thomas filius Hugonis de Sandale que est capella matricis 
ecclesie de Cuningburch’ quietum clamasse in perpetuum de me et 
heredibus meis monachis sancti Pancracii de Lewes et totum clamium 
quod de predicta capella adversus predictos monachos moveram 
quietum clamasse de me et heredibus meis in comitatu Ebor/acensi] 
et in synodo Eboraci et in capitulo Donecastrie coram archidiacono 
Eboracensi. Et affidavi et sigilli mei munimine roboravi quod nunquam 
per me neque per quemquam alium in perpetuum eis de predicta 
capella aliquam calumpniam movebo. Hanc predictam quietam 
clamacionem feci predictis monachis de I.ewes! pro anima mea et uxoris 
mee et pro animabus patris et matris mee et pro anima domini mei 
Willelmi filii? Godrici et pro animabus omnium antecessorum meorum, 
et quia me et uxorem meam [et] duos liberos meos in oracionibus 
ecclesie de Lewes receperunt. Hiis testibus, Reinerio vicecomite et 
Petro fratre suo, Adam de Reineuile, Thoma de Reineuile, Ada filio 
Petri, Ada de Brictwait,? Otone de Tilli, Willelmo de Ballebi et toto 
comitatu, et de synodo Laurencio archidiacono, Rad[ulfo] de Alneto 
archid[iacono], Germino archid[iacono], magistro Rogero de* Arundell’, 
Willelmo le Vauassur, Petro Stilenio, Dolfino decano et Rad[ulfo] 
filio suo, Ada de Sandale, Ternaldo de Normantun,® Thoma de Deuis- 
bui, Johanne Taleuaz, et de capitulo magistro Willelmo filio Folconis,® 
Hugone de Caltorn decano, magistro Lamberto, Reinerio de Derfeld, 
Petro persona ecclesie Donecastrie et Johanne fratre suo, Ada de Brodis- 
worde et Vincencio filio suo, Jordano de Pikeburne, Hugone de Hethe- 
feld, Roberto Scot, Reginald[o] presbiter[o] de Sandale, Gilberto 
presbitero de Drefeld, Ric[ardo] capellano Sciningburch’.” 


Reiner (de Waxham), the first witness, was acting for Ranulf de 
Glanville as deputy sheriff of Yorkshire in 1184 and 1187.8 In view of the 
fifth witness, Adam son of Peter (de Birkin), the latest date is 1185.9 
Laurence archdeacon of Bedford, mag. Roger Arundel and William Vavasour 
occur in a charter of date 1181-86 ;!° and the last two as justices at York in 
1184." Ralph d’ Aunay was archdeacon of York, and Germinus can presum- 
ably be identified with Jeremy archdeacon of Cleveland.!2 William son of 


ee Sas nie Ae 
1 fect added here in error. 
2 filius, MS. 

Presumably Birthwaite. 

Sté. 

Normantut, MS. 

Folonis, MS. 

Possibly in error for Cuningburch’, as in the next charter. 

EJY 0. 10) BOs oa: 

Ibid., iii, p. 359. 

Ibid., i, no. 319. 

Ibid., vii, no. 176. 

Y.A.J., xxxvi, pp. 413, 419. 


— 
ouU mON DH *& W 


Be oe 
no Fe 


KIRK SANDAL ¥75 


Godric, named as the grantor’s lord, was the ancestor of the Fitz William 
family ; he was living in 1182, and if, as seems likely, he was dead when 
this charter was issued his death can be fixed as 1182-85, the same limits of 
date being fixed for the charter. 


128. Notification by Thomas son of Hugh de Sandal, that in the [ruri- 
decanal] chapter of Doncaster he had sworn to appear before the 
king’s justices when they next came to Yorkshire, and bear witness 
to all the agreements and the quitclaim which he had made to 
Lewes priory concerning the chapel of [Kirk] Sandal, in 


accordance with his charter. [c. 1180-1185] 
Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 208V: fAbstin ¥.A./., 
xxxi, 308. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Thomas filius Hugonis de 
Sandale in capitulo Donecastrie et coram multis aliis affidavi me venturum 
coram primis justiciis domini regis cum venerint in Eboracensi sira et 
ibi protestaturum omnes convenciones et quietam clamacionem quam 
feci monachis de Lewes de capella de Sandale secundum quod carta 
mea quam eis inde dedi testatur. Hiis testibus, Hug[one] de Caltorn 
decano, magistro Lamberto, Adam de Broddesworde, Petro persona 
Donecastrie, Thoma persona de Fiselac, Willelmo filio? Folconis, 
Jordano de Pikeborne, Ric[ardo] capellano de Cuningburch’, Johanne 
clerico decani de Lewes, Ada de Marisco, Thoma de Trumfleit, Regi- 
naldo presbitero. 


The witnesses show that this document was issued on the same occasion 
as the preceding one. 


129. Quitclaim by Thomas son of Hugh de Sandal, with the assent 
of William his son and heir, to Hugh, prior of Lewes, and the 
convent, of all right in the church of St. Oswald, [Kirk] Sandal. 

9 Sept. 1230 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 299. Abst. in Y.4./,, 
xxxi, 309. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Thomas de Sandale filius 
Hug[onis] de Sandall’ voluntate et assensu Willelmi filii et heredis mei 
quietum clamavi Hugoni priori de Lewes et ejusdem loci conventul 
imperpetuum de me et heredibus meis totum jus et clamium quod 
habui et habere potui in ecclesia sancti Oswaldi de Sandale, unde 
recognicio summonita fuit in curia domini regis inter me et dictum 
priorem per breve de ultima presentacione coram domino Rad[ulfo] de 
Neuile Cicestren[se] episcopo domini regis cancellario et domino 
Stephano de Segraue justic[iis] domini regis. In cujus rei testimonium 
huic scripto sigillum meum apposui et hoc idem per Willelmum filium 
et attornatum meum coram dictis justic[iis] sum protestatus apud 
Couentr’ anno regni regis Henrici filii regis Johannis quarto decimo in 
crastino nativitatis beate Marie. Hiis testibus, domino S. de Segraue, 
Willelmo de Eborac[o], Roberto Passeleue, Henr[ico] de Bergraue, 


1 E.Y.C., iii, p. 336. 
2 filius, MS. 


176 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


magistro Robert[o] de Stanford officiale Hug[onis] decani Denecastrie, 
domino Maluesino de Herci, domino Baldewino de Herci tunc con- 
stabulario de Conyngburgh’, et multis aliis. 


(v) THORNE 


130. Gift by Robert son of Pain formerly the water-bailiff of Thorne 
to Ranulf the chaplain of Thorne of his father’s messuage in 
Thorne, 20 acres of land in Fishlake, and 3 acres of land in Thorne F 
to hold of the Templars, rendering to them 3s. 8d. yearly in equal 
instalments. The donee gave 9 marks of silver. [1202-39] 

PLATE XXIII 
Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 308. Abst. in Cat. Anc. 
Deeds, i, 34. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis has litteras visuris vel audituris 
Robertus filius Pagani quondam marrarii de Torn’ salutem. Noueritis 
consensu et voluntate heredum meorum me concessisse dedisse et hac 
presenti carta mea confirmasse Ranulfo capellano de Torn’ . totum 
mesuagium quod fuit patris mei in uilla de Torn’ cum pertinentiis suis . 
et viginti acras terre in campis de Fisclache’ . cum pertinentiis suis . in 
loco qui dicitur Spinet’ . et tres acras terre in campis de Torn’ . quas 
Huke tenuit cum pertinentiis suis . infra uillam et.extra. Tenendum et 
habendum sibi vel cui assignare uoluerit de Templariis de Jerusalem . 
in feodo et hereditate libere et quiete pacifice et integre cum omnibus 
pertinentiis et libertatibus suis. Reddendo inde annuatim ille vel eius 
assignatus predictis Templariis tantum tres solidos et viij. denarios ad 
duos terminos pro omni seruitio et exactione . scilicet . XX1j. denarios . 
ad festum sancti Michaelis . et xxij. d[enarios] . ad Pascha. Pro hac 
autem concessione et donatione dedit mihi predictus Ranuifus sacerdos 
- houem marcas argenti. Hiis testibus . Ada de Nouo Mercato . Henr- 
[ico] fratre eius . Thoma de Boseuill’ . Hug[one] de Treton’ . Nicholao 
fratre eius . Ada et Ricardo cappellanis de Haitf[eld] Ricardo clerico de 
Stainford’ . Thoma filio Elye . Johanne de Duuestord’ . Thoma de 
Duuestorp . Rog[ero] de Londoniis . Hug[one] cysore . Ricardo clerico 
de Haitfeld . Ricardo de Cressi . et Henr[ico] fratre eius . Ricardo 
Gentil . et aliis. ; 


Seal : pink wax ; round, c. lkin; a bird; a sicl..... PAG]ANI; 
legend chipped. 
Endorsed : Carta de Torne. 


Pain, the grantor’s father, was given the same 3 acres in Thorne by earl 
Hamelin in the period 1164-96 (no. 70), and was alive in 1202 (no. 85). The 
latest possible date for the present charter is 1239 when Henry de Neuf- 
marché, the second witness was dead ; see the introduction to $l above. But 
the handwriting suggests a date in the early part of the period assigned. 


131. Gift by Ranulf the chaplain of Thorne to Maud Bigod, countess 
of Norfolk and de Warenne, of his tenement in Thorne and 
Fishlake; rendering yearly to the Templars at Temple Hirst 
3s. 8d. in equal instalments ; for 20 marks of silver. [1240-48] 


Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 316. Abst. in Cat. Ane. 
Deeds,4,.35: 


PLATE XXIII 


‘ur $¥ Aq g4 0715 


eh eg 3 Eg 2g yp gery omyey aumne = el Kom J 
Sig ee Se porns p ame emt ef may eost 
4 Gyno so anfaans f anysy 0 gc 6 eR apa * Ra Be ER 

e: “S 


ny <28Faxy mf: St ean ngage ayy veg oor ol 2g ms 
om (Goon ete sale bby nusia Coin 8 nad Ba " . ound af A mnSenboco 


. et ye. . a, ta mS f y P 3 ay : \ _ ~ ee P 
- Ge wy. ; i : adie | 


THORNE 177 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Ranulfus capellanus de Torn’ 
dedi . concessi et hac presenti carta mea confirmaui . Matilde Bigot . 
comitisse Norfouk et Warenn[ie] et heredibus suis uel suis assingnatis 
totum tenementum meum cum pertinenciis quod habui in villa de Torn’ 
et de Fislak’ in dominicis . redditibus . piscariis . et in omnibus aliis 
sine aliquo retenemento mihi et heredibus meis. Tenendum et haben- 
dum sibi et heredibus suis uel suis assingnatis in perpetuum. Reddendo 
inde annuatim fratribus Milicie Templi Salomonis apud Hirst . tres 
solidos et octo denarios ad duos anni terminos . scilicet ad festum sancti 
Micaelis . viginti duos denarios . et ad Pascha floridum viginti duos 
denarios pro omni seruicio exaccione et demanda. Pro hac autem 
donacione . concessione et confirmacione dedit mihi predicta Matildis 
viginti marcas argenti pre manibus. Et ego predictus Ranulfus et here- 
des mei predicte Matildi et heredibus suis uel suis assingnatis predictum 
tenementum . cum omnibus pertinenclis . warentizabimus. In cuius rei 
testimonium presenti scripto sigillum meum apposui. Hiis testi- 
bus domino Rog[ero] de Lund[oniis] domino Joh[anne] Lenueyse . 
Ric[ardo] de Cast’ . Alex[andro] de Stubbes . Ric[ardo] capellano . 
Micaele capellano . Micaele de Duuestorp’. 


Tag for seal. 
Endorsed : Carta de Torn’. 


The grantee was the widow of William sixth earl de Warenne, who had 
died in 1240; she died in 1248 (see p. 25 above). When the manor of 
Hatfield was assigned to her as part of her dower a messuage (or houses) in 
Thorne was excepted.! On her death the manor reverted to the holder of the 
honour of Warenne. The present gift was to her and her heirs and assigns ; 
and her own heir was Roger Bigod, earl of Norfolk, her eldest son by her first 
husband ; and in due course Ralph le Bigod (probably a younger son) 
released to John earl de Warenne his messuage etc. in Thorne and Balne.? 
Countess Maud gave the tenement which she bought of Ranulf the chaplain 
of Thorne to her own chaplain Richard de Ottele for 15 marks ; the witnesses 
suggesting that this was done soon after her purchase. 


1 Close Rolls, 1237-42. pp. 202-3. 

2 Cat. Anc. Deeds, i, 35 (A. 313 ; and A. 314, a gift of the same to the 
earl by John, Ralph le Bigod’s son). 

3 Ibid, (A. 315). 


CHAPTER IV. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO LANDS OF THE 
MANOR OF WAKEFIELD 


The manor of Wakefield, with berewicks and soke in a large 
number of places, was among the king’s land in Yorkshire at the 
time of the Domesday survey. 7 

There is no proof that the manor had been given to William 
de Warenne, the second earl, before 1098, for the charter on which 
such a supposition could be based cannot be accepted as genuine.! 
The latest date is 1121, for the church of Wakefield was given to 
Lewes priory by that year (Charter no. 10) ; and the earliest date 
for that gift is 1106 (no. 9). The statement that the manor was 
given by king Henry I to the second earl c. 1107 is included in 
the history which forms the preface to the detailed ‘present state’ 
drawn up in the year 1709 ;? and, although there is an absence of 
any contemporary evidence, it is not unlikely that the gift was 
made as a reward for the earl’s services at the battle of Tinchebrai 
in 1106.8 


The Domesday assessments! of the manor and its dependen- 
cies are as follows : 


Car. bov. Other details 
M Wakefield 8 34 2 churches and 3 
priests ° 

Dewsbury © 3 0 church and priest 
B Halifax (Feslez) 6 0 
BB Heptonstall, par. Halifax 2 0 
B_ Langfield, par. Halifax 4 0 
B- Midgley, par. Halifax 4 0 
B Sandal Magna 6 0 
B Sowerby, par. Halifax 6 0 
B Stansfield, par. Halifax 2 0 
B Wadsworth, par. Halifax 4 0 
B- Warley, par. Halifax 4 0 
S West Ardsley, par. Woodkirk 4 ) 


1 See the notes to Charter no. 6. 

2 Wakefield Manor Book, Y.R.S., p. 2. 

3 Ibid. ; ‘in consideration of his service for taking Robert de Courtois 
the King’s brother prisoner in Normandy.’ 

* V.C.H. Yorks., ii, pp. 198-9, 206, 301-3. The first two references are 
to terra regis, as given in the Text: and the last to the Summary for the 
wapentakes of Agbrigg and Morley. Certain allocations of carucage, made 
by Farrer in his annotations, e.g. for Wakefield and eight of the berewicks, 
and for Cartworth (see the note below), have been adopted. 

> There is no doubt that the two churches were Wakefield and Sandal 
Magna. 

® King Edward had a manor there ; at the Survey the land belonged to 
Wakefield. 


aoe 
i 
( 
bee, aoset™, ots . 1) OP Gio oh Be 4. SG eB eto eremee 
peete pees ocss ne ° . 
ene FCCEESHILL Scale of Meles 
a 
s FARNLEY 
Mi R L 1B Y ee 
“se 
| ae 
© SHELF es 
-’ HEPTONSTALL e etree e 
} ° WADSWORTH NORTHOWRAM Sapa 
on « MIDGLEY WEST 
c STANSFIELD WARLEY ° HIPPERHOLME ET Be SN ape er 
! e e ° & ‘ 
‘ HALIFAX HANGING .,. , . 
. HEATON ,0°° +8 ; 
Meee ass ORMANTON * 
ie © LANGFIELD SOWERBY ° Po CORE : 
" DEWSBURY9 = 
is : e Ce -@ a! ” 
i hes at ara Toe oe ONC ACER Ean 
wetce ay “ STAINLAND **.,, FLAY : ; OSSETT ie 
i DEDIEINDELY 2 liaa pee a MIDDLE MAGNA : 
! lie 0 SHITLINGTON “WALTON ¢" 
. eNO Derk | Cy sg Gee a 
3 an ae 
(PN Sy aed a HOR) 2 oo ae col’ NORTH Bi Hawayice fied 
Srey” . yee EOE IEE z MLEY % ie Wes whe 
Feats UT ©XIRKBURTON +: ‘BRETTON 
7 ~ 
a THURS TONLAND * SHELLEY 
\ ‘ DHEPLEY ay 
od FOULSTONe ° ye 
e <Oe tex 
ve WOOLDALE — qs* "803 
a ; AUSTONLEY © » CART WORTH %, CUMBERWORTH She MANOR of 
L yt hae . HEPWORTH c 
; HOLME pot NONI le UE aL 0) 
cs Rae ti ise ete 
een ae ; 7 eS o pee. | : . 
aes ene showing its memberS as récorded 
gn 3 yee ae Z 


1 ‘ 


r / 


ae EY SHIRE / 


\ 
\ 


tn the Domesday Survey 


. 
eee ee 
Teme eee eer a ae Sinem tar em 


7 


PA 


me! pen lic aj 
wi 


MANOR OF WAKEFIELD 2 UTS 


G Other details 


et 
ion 
i} 
< 


OnCOK fF COOCOCO CoNOo ef 


a 

West Bretton par. Sandal Magna! 1 

Cartworth, par. Kirkburton ? 2 

Criggleston, par. Sandal Magna 1 

North Crosland, par. Almondbury 1 

Upper Cumberworth, par. Kirk- 
burton 1 

Eccleshill, par. Bradford 3 

Emley 3 

Farnley, par. Leeds 3 

Fixby, par. Halifax 1 

Foulston, par. Kirkburton 

Greetland, par. Halifax 

Earl’s Heaton, par. Dewsbury 

Hanging Heaton, par. Dewsbury 

Hepworth, par. Kirkburton 

Hipperholme, par. Halifax 

Holme, par. Almondbury, with 
Yateholme, Austonley and 
Quick 

Horbury, par. Wakefield 

Kirkburton 

Old Lindley, par. Halifax 

Normanton * 

Northowram, par. Halifax 

Ossett, par. Dewsbury 

Rastrick, par. Halifax ° 

Shelf, par. Halifax 

Shelley, par. Kirkburton 7? 

Shepley, par. Kirkburton 

Middle Shitlington, par. Thornhill ® 

Stainland, par. Halifax 

Stanley, par. Wakefield 

Thurstonland, par. Kirkburton 

Walton, par. Sandal Magna 

Wooldale, par. Kirkburton 


Total 121 74 


po-e 


w 


NANNNNNNNNHNnHnN NHNWWNW 


— 


CO Gb Noe KH KS DONO © bo bo 


church ° and priest 


NNNNNNNNRNNVnNVnNNMnNWNM 
RORCTOHMROCCOCOHOCORONO 


The king’s holdings given in the above table all lay in the 
two wapentakes of Agbrigg and Morley, which were entirely 
divided, with the exception of the archbishop’s holding of 9 caru- 
cates in Warmfield and Sharlston in the former wapentake, between 


1 The Text gives | car. 

2 The Text gives 6 car. to Cartworth, which as stated in the Summary 
included Hepworth, Wooldale, Foulston and Thurstonland ; for Farrer’s 
allocation of the 6 car. see ibid. p. 302. 

3 In the Text some said this was thegn-land, others soke in Wakefield. 
The entry is repeated on p. 206, where the description is a manor, some 
saying inland, others soke in Wakefield. 

+ Repeated in the Text on p. 206, with variations in the valuations, 
and instead of an assessment of 10 car. the statement that two thegns 
named had held 2 manors, being 5 car. for geld. The Summary (p. 301) gives 
10 car. held by the king. 

5 The church was stated to be outside the soke of Wakefield in both 
entries in the Text, and in the second 4 bovates also. 

6 The Text gives $ car. formerly held by Goduin. 

7 Shepley and Shelley are combined in the Summary for 3 car. 

8 The Text gives 6 bov. in Shitlington as soke of Wakefield. The 
Summary gives 3 car. there held by the king ; but as Farrer noted (p. 302n) 
2 car. 2 bov. of them should be assigned to Ilbert de Lascy. 


180 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


terra regis and Ilbert de Lascy. In Agbrigg wapentake, according 
to the Summary and with the amendment for Shitlington noted 
above, the king’s holdings amounted to 97 car. 24 bov. and Ilbert’s 
to 87 car. 6 bov., giving with the archbishop’s holding a total of 
194 car. 3 bov. In Morley wapentake the king’s holdings amounted 
to 24 car. 5 bov. and Ilbert’s to 175 car. 3 bov., giving a total of 
precisely 200 carucates. Thus the Summary records that the king’s 
holdings in the two wapentakes, almost all of which composed the 
manor of Wakefield with its berewicks and soke,! amounted to 121 
car. 74 bov. 

The assessments given in the table, which add up to that 
figure, are mainly those provided by the Summary ; and for many 
of the holdings they precisely correspond with those provided by 
the Text under terra regis. The small variations in the Text and 
Summary for West Bretton and Rastrick have been noted. But a 
large discrepancy in the two is shown for the assessment of Wake- 
field itself. In the Text the assessment for Wakefield and nine 
berewicks, which include Sandal Magna, is given as 60 car. 34 bov. 
In the Summary the assessment for Wakefield is given as 40 car. 
3% bov. This appears to include eight of the berewicks, which are 
not mentioned by name, but excludes Sandal Magna, for which 
the king’s 6 carucates are entered separately. The Text, however 
omits Hipperholme and nine other places in the soke of Wakefield,” 
which are entered in the Summary with their separate assessments, 
amounting to 20 car. 1 bov. ; and also the king’s holding of 8 car. 
in Walton, which certainly subsequently was a member of the 
manor of Wakefield, and presumably so at the date of the Survey. 
It is possible that the figure LX in the Text is an error for XL, as 
in the Summary ; or it is possible that the discrepancy of 14 car. 
(if the 6 car. for Sandal have to be included in the Text’s 60 and 
added to the Summary’s 40) can be accounted for by some of the 
omissions in the Text, where the total assessments recorded add 
up to only 106 car. 63 bov. But whatever the explanation may be, 
the figures provided by the Summary are to be preferred ; and it 
can be supposed that the total assessment of the manor of Wake- 
field and its dependencies in 1086 was slightly more than 120 
carucates. 

Subsequently there were several adjustments of holdings 
between the manor of Wakefield and the honour of Pontefract. 
Farnley, par. Leeds, which was soke of the former in 1086, became 
a member of the latter. The inquisition held on 16 March 1322-3 
after the death of Margaret de Neville, the Longvillers heiress, 
found that she held the manor of Farnley of the honour of Ponte- 
fract ;3 and it is likely that it was this Farnley which was included 
among the lands of Edmund de Lascy in a grant of free warren in 


1 Possibly 4 bov. in Normanton should be deducted (see note above). 

2 Northowram, Shelf, Stainland, Fixby, Eccleshill, Farnley, West 
Ardsley, Greetland, and Hanging Heaton ; Old Lindley and Rastrick being 
duly recorded in the Text. 

3 Cal. Ing. p.m., vi, no. 175. 


MANOR OF WAKEFIELD 181 


1251.1 There is also some evidence that part of West Bretton 
became a tenure of the honour of Pontefract.?, On the other hand 
there are some places, where the sole interest in 1086 was held by 
Ibert de Lascy, which passed wholly or in part to the manor of 
Wakefield. These included Clifton, Hartshead, Dalton (par. Kirk- 
heaton), Flockton and Golcar.3 Another example is that of 
Quarmby, the early history of which 1s more than usually obscure. 
In 1086 2 carucates there were held by Ilbert de Lascy ; and in 
1242-43 it was among the several places where lands formed a 
knight’s fee of the manor of Wakefield.4 In 1386 there was an 
agreement to settle a dispute about the wardship of the daughter 
and heir of William de Quarmby ; and in the course of the dispute 
it had been put forward on one side that the lands in Quarmby 
and Stainland were parcels of the manor of Quarmby, which manor 
had always been held of the soke of Wakefield by fealty and suit 
at the court of Wakefield every three weeks and a yearly service 
of 3s. for all services.® It seems clear that a part at least of Quarmby 
was transferred from the honour of Pontefract before the middle 
of the thirteenth century. 

With regard to the service by which the manor was held of 

the crown, it has been shown in the introduction to Chapter III 
that the castle and manor of Conisborough and the castle and 
manor of Sandal with Wakefield were held in 1347 of the king in 
chief by the service of 2 knights’ fees ; and it was suggested that 
this tenure dated back to the twelfth century. In some printed 
returns giving the details of the service of tenants in chief in 
Yorkshire in 1210-12 there is the entry ‘Comes Warenne, vj feoda 
de Wakfeld’.@ The deduction is that the manor of Wakefield, 
whether or no the honour of Conisborough, for which there is no 
separate entry, was included, was held by the service of 6 knights’ 
fees. But these returns must be regarded with caution ; and it has 
been concluded, as a result of their examination, that “‘the lists in 
the Red Book are for the most part mere abstracts or notes, rather 
than exact copies of original returns, and that they abound in 
flagrant misreadings.’’? It is not impossible to suppose that vj is 
an error for ij, and that the entry with that amendment records 
the total service for the honour of Conisborough and the manor of 
Wakefield. 

1 Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1226-57, p. 357. 

2 See §1 below. 

3 All these places—Flockton being represented by Nether Flockton— 
are in the list of places within the liberty of the manor of Wakefield (Nomina 
Villarum, Wakefield, 1816; and cf. Wakefield Manor Book, p. 7). For 
references to Dalton see §1 below ; and to Hartshead-cum-Clifton see that 
section. 

pee $l. 

5 Yorks. Deeds, i, no. 393. Quarmby occurs in the Nomina Villarum, 
and gave its name to a constabulary (Wakefield Manor Book, p. 7). Quarmby 
—as indeed were Clifton, Dalton, Flockton and Hartshead—is specified 
among the members of the manor of Wakefield held by Thomas earl of 
Lancaster at his death in 1322 (Cal. Ing. p.m., vii, no. 82). 


6 Red. Bk. of Exch., p. 491. 
7 Bk. of Fees, p. 54. 


182 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


$1. THE BURGH FEE 


It has been recorded in the introductory notes to Chapter III 
that in 1242-43, in addition to the 24 knights’ fees held of the 
honour of Conisborough, a knight’s fee lay in eight places named. 
These places, all of which were members of the manor of Wakefield, 
were Walton [par. Sandal Magna], Shelley [par. Kirkburton], 
Shepley [par. Kirkburton], Dalton [par. Kirkheaton], OQuarmby 
(par. Huddersfield], [West] Bretton [par. Sandal Magna], Thurston- 
land [par. Kirkburton], and [Upper] Cumberworth (par. Kirk- 
burton]. Land in all of these, with the exception of Dalton and 
Quarmby, was entered as soke of the manor of Wakefield at the 
Survey ; and it has been noted above that Dalton and at least 
part of Quarmby must have been transferred to the manor sub- 
sequently. 

The family of Burgh? became possessed of part, and pro- 
bably the whole, of this knight’s fee. They held half a knight’s 
fee of the manor of Wakefield, with their principal holding in 
Walton ; and it is probable that they enfeoffed the family of 
Shepley or its antecessor in the remaining half knight’s fee in 
Shepley and elsewhere. 

In 1298 Thomas son and heir of Philip de Burgh, then under 
age and in the wardship of John de Warenne, earl of Surrey, gave 
20/7. in the manor court of Wakefield to have the manor of Walton 
out of the earl’s custody which he held from him in chief :3 and in 
1305 he was granted free warren in his demesne lands in Walton.4 
An inquisition on 25 May 1322 recorded that he held at his death 
the manor of Walton including a park with deer, held of the 
manor of Wakefield by the service of half a knight’s fee and 
rendering 7s. yearly to the lord of Wakefield ; the manor being 
charged with 20s. yearly to William le Erle of Wakefield, 16d. to 
the prior of the Hospitallers, 2s. 6d. to the church of Sandal [Magna], 
and 4d. to the church of Crofton.® At an inquisition on 2 July 1334, 
held after the death of his younger son Thomas who had succeeded, 
it was found that the latter held the manor of Walton of John de 
Warenne, earl of Surrey by the service of a third of a knight’s fee® 
and rendering 7s. yearly to the earl and doing suit at the earl’s 
court of Wakefield.” 

There are two pieces of evidence which give a clue to the 
origin of the Burgh holding. The first is that Sir William le 


1 Farrer in H.K.F., iii, 419 printed some notes on this fee. It is dif- 
ficult to accept his identification of Dalton as Dalton, par. Rotherham, which 
was a member of the honour of Conisborough. 

* For a detailed account of the family see Mr. J. W. Walker’s paper in 
Y.A.J., xxx, pp. 311-48; and for the early generations, especially in con- 
nexion with the 4 k.f. held of the honour of Richmond, E.Y.C., v, pp. 164-7. 

3 Wakefield Court Rolls, ii, 42. 

* Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1300-26, p. 49. 

5 Cal. Ing. p.m., vi, no. 320. 

° Possibly the difference between this and the 4 k.f. was because a third 
of the holding (4 k.f.) was held in dower. 

7 Cal. Ing. p.m., vii, no, 604, 


BURGH FEE 183 


Fleming, at his death in 1307, held the vill of Dalton [par. Kirk- 
heaton], as to one moiety of Sir Thomas de Burgh and the other of 
dame Margaret de Neville ;! and the second is that John de Neville 
of Hornby, at his death in 1335, held a rent in Walton of the ear] 
of Surrey as of the castle of Sandal.? The fact that Sir Thomas de 
Burgh and dame Margaret de Neville, daughter of John de Long- 
villers and grandmother of John de Neville, were representatives 
of the two daughters of Adam son of Swain*® supports the suggestion 
made by Farrer* that Adam son of Swain (who held tenancies of 
the honours of Pontefract and Skipton®) had originally held the 
whole knight’s fee of the manor of Wakefield. Moreover, further 
support is given to this, if ‘Waletuna’, as is likely, can be identified 
as Walton in Sandal Magna, in a charter by which William de 
Neville and Amabel his wife® confirmed to Uctred son of Ravenchil 
91 bovates there to hold by knight-service, as Adam son of Swain 
had given them to him.’ 

As compared with the half knight’s fee in Walton the history 
of the second half knight’s fee is more obscure. It can probably be 
identified as the half knight’s fee in Shepley which Diana widow 
of Geoffrey de Beslun quitclaimed to Thomas de Burgh, who gave 
7 marks of silver, on 1 June 1225, and which she had claimed as 
dower :8 but there is no clue to the basis of her claim.? In 1309 
Margaret widow of Thomas de Shepley had the custody of the 
manor of Shepley which her husband had held of Thomas de Burgh 
by knight-service, his son and heir John then being under age ;'° 
and on 12 April 1336 John de Shepley did fealty to earl de Warenne 
and acknowledged that he held the manor of Shepley and a caru- 


1 Ibid., iv, no. 424 ; Yorks. Inq., iv, no. 124. For Fleming see the Harts- 
head-cum-Clifton section below. 

2 Cal. Ing. p.m., vii, no. 682. 

3 See the pedigree in E.Y.C., iii, 318; and for Neville, Complete Peerage, 
new ‘ed., ix, 488. In 1086 Swain, Adam’s father, held 2 car. in Dalton of 
Ilbert de Lascy. 

add Ad, Wi, 420. 

SPY. Ci, Pe Gl? 7 WU, prik7 7, 

6 One of the two daus. of Adam son of Swain and the mother of Sarah 
wife of Thomas de Burgh. 

ey Gt, DO51GS1, 

8 Yorks. Fines, 1218-31, p. 59. 

9 Her husband’s brother, Nicholas de Bellun, was enfeoffed of 
Winksley, par. Ripon, by Roger de Mowbray ; this was confirmed to Geof- 
frey, her husband, by William de Mowbray; their son Nicholas de Bellun the 
younger made several gifts to Fountains abbey, including land there in 1221 ; 
and he married Avice dau. of Matthew de Shepley; Avice in her widowhood 
was given a toft in Winksley by the abbey, to whom it was given in 1266 by 
Matthew de Shepley (i.e. Matthew the younger, Avice’s brother) ; see 
Fountains Chartulary, ii, pp. 746-9. 761-2. This shows a Shepley-Bellun 
connexion, but does not explain the origin of Diana’s claim to dower in 
Shepley, which was presumably in virtue of an interest of her husband 
Geoffrey de Bellun. It was stated in a pleading of May 1225 that she had 
been the wife of Reginald de Clifton as her second husband for fifteen years 
(Yorks. Fines, 1218-31, p. 60). It is probable that the ‘Bellun’ family came 
from Bellou-en-Oulme, dept. Orne, a member of the Mowbray fee in Norm- 
andy (Cal. Docs. France, no. 599). 

10 Ca], Pat. Rolls, 1307-13, pp. 131, 237. 


184 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


cate of land there of Thomas de Burgh’s heir by homage, fealty 
and scutage.t These references indicate the tenure of the Shepley 
family which had presumably been acquired by sub-infeudation. 
It is probable that the interest had been held by Matthew de 
Shepley, steward of earl de Warenne in 1218 ;? for certainly he had 
interests in some of the places named. In 1231 an assize came to 
recognize if he, father of Matthew the younger, was seised at his 
death of a bovate in Bretton, a bovate in Clayton and half a bovate 
in Thurstonland ;3 and his tenure of land in Upper Cumberworth 
is shown by his gift to Roche abbey which was confirmed by earl 
de Warenne in the period 1202-24 (no. 94 above). 

In 1428 John Dransfield and Richard Wentworth held a 
quarter of a knight’s fee in Bretton, Quarmby, Golcar and Cum- 
berworth, which Agnes Dransfield formerly held.4 It is possible 
that this holding formed part of the second half knight’s fee 
mentioned above, perhaps created by a further sub-infeudation ; 
but no indication is given as to the tenancy in chief of which it 
was held. The Dronsfield or Dransfield family had interests in 
West Bretton and Cumberworth as early as the middle of the 
thirteenth century.® , 

There are no early charters available to illustrate the hold- 
ings by knight-service in Walton and Shepley. With regard to 
West Bretton, Farrer printed two charters recording gifts to 
Byland abbey by members of the family of Bretton in his section 
for the Lascy Fee ;* and the originals of these and of some other 
early Byland charters from Lord Allendale’s muniments, mostly 
gifts by members of the same family, have been printed in full 
abstract in Yorks. Deeds, vol. v, nos. 15-21; vi, nos. 33-4. The 
endorsements on the originals show that the abbey’s holding in 
West Bretton was evidently administered from its grange of 
Bentley situated in Emley, another member of the manor of 
Wakefield. 


§2. MISCELLANEOUS 


The charters printed in this section relate to lands of the 
manor of Wakefield in a number of places not included among 
those which formed what has been described as the Burgh fee in 
§1. The charters do not give any proof that land in other places 
than those comprised in the Burgh fee was held by knight-service ; 
but there are certain records which state that some of such land 
was so held. An example of land said to be held in Ossett by 


1 Y.A.J., xxx, pp. 333-4, citing Wakefield Manor court roll 10 Edw. III. 

2 See Chapter V. 

3 H.K.F. MS., citing Assize Roll 1042, m. 26 ; noticed in H.K.F.., iii, 420. 

4 Feudal Aids, vi, 284. 

> Hunter, South Yorkshire, ii, pp. 240, 251. 

° E.Y.C., iii, nos. 1791-2, from the Byland Chartulary. For the likeli- 
hood that part of West Bretton was a member of the honour of Pontefract, 
in addition to the one (or 14) car. soke of the manor of Wakefield, see Hunter, 
South Yorkshire, ii, 239, where some abstracts of 13th cent. charters are 
given, 


WEST ARDSLEY 185 


knight-service in 1349 is given in the introduction to that section. 
And at the inquisition held after the death of Sir John de Burton 
in 1361 it was found that he held land in Stanley and Wakefield 
of the king in chief by knight-service, for what portion of a fee not 
known, as parcel of the manor of Wakefield.1 It is possible that 
these tenures were the result of enfeoffments made later than the 
returns of 1242-43 ; but there appears to be no corroborative evi- 
dence to support the accuracy of the jurors’ statements.® 


(i) WEST ARDSLEY 


In 1086 4 carucates 5 bovates in West Ardsley were soke of 
the manor of Wakefield ; and Ilbert de Lascy held 6 carucates in 
Morley, lying a short distance to the north, where a church was 
recorded. This was the church of St. Mary, Woodkirk ; and in the 
section dealing with the Claims in the West Riding it is stated that, 
according to the verdict of the men of Morley wapentake, concern- 
ing the church of St. Mary in the wood of Morley the king had a 
moiety of the alms of the three feasts of St. Mary as belonging to 
Wakefield, and all the other Ilbert had and the priest who served 
the church.? Charter no. 31 above and the note thereto show that 
William, second earl de Warenne, and Ralph de Insula and William 
his son, in the time of archbishop Thurstan and not later than 1127, 
gave the church of Woodkirk to Nostell priory ; and that the third 
earl confirmed to the canons the site of the church, adding 20s. 
yearly from his rent of West Ardsley.* In addition to their share 
of the gift of the church to Nostell priory Ralph de Insula and 
William his son gave 12 bovates of land in Morley.® It is evident 
that their interest in the church was due to their tenure of land in 
Morley, held of the honour of Pontefract, and that the Warenne 
interest in the church was due to the fact that West Ardsley was 
soke of the manor of Wakefield. 

The confirmation charter of the third earl was addressed to 
Robert son of Elias and Rainald son of Brito, whose names follow 
that of the sheriff of Wakefield ; and it is not unlikely that they 
were two of the earl’s tenants in West Ardsley. Robert son of Elias 
may be the predecessor of Michael son of Elias de Soothill 
mentioned in the ensuing charters; and Rainald son of Brito that 
of Robert Brito, the superior of Robert de Everingham (in whole 
or part) in the feudal chain in West Ardsley, as shown by no. 134. 

Thomas de Everingham mentioned in no. 132 can be identi- 
fied as the Thomas de Everingham who with Robert his son 

1 Cal. Ing. p.m., xi, no. 293. 

2 This also applies to certain details given in the inquisition of 1577 
for the manor of Wakefield, ¢.g. a knight’s fee in West Ardsley and a 
nineteenth part of a knight’s fee in Rastrick ; of this there is a MS. copy in 
the Society’s Library, MS. 732b, ff. 19 et seq. 

920... Yorks., ui, 294; and cf. £.Y.C., 11,-—p. 279. 

+ In 1242 the king ordered that the canons of Woodkirk should have 
the 20s. yearly in the vill of Ardsley given by the predecessors of the sixth 
earl (Close Rolls, 1237-42, p. 409). 

5 E.Y.C., iii, no. 1428. References in the note to ibid., no. 1616 show 
an interest in Morley held by their descendants. 


186 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


witnessed a charter to St. Mary’s, York, c. 1180-1194 ;1 the latter 
presumably being the Robert de Everingham who married Isabel 
daughter of John de Birkin and heir to her brother Thomas de 
Birkin, who died in 1230.2, By reason of that marriage the Birkin 
inheritance which included several tenancies of the honour of 
Pontefract passed to the Everingham family. The holding of 
Thomas de Everingham in West Ardsley, which had descended to 
his son Robert, was inherited by the latter’s descendants. Robert’s 
grandson, Sir Robert de Everingham, died shortly before 21 July 
1287 ; and, among the many inquisitions held after his death in 
respect of the large number of his holdings, one was held on 9 Jan. 
1287-8 at which it was found that in addition to several holdings 
apparently of the honour of Pontefract he held 31 bovates of land 
in Erdeslawe [West Ardsley] of earl de Warenne by homage and 
service of 20s. yearly, which bovates were held of him by the 
service of 38s. yearly, of which he rendered 3s. 4d. to the master of 
Woodkirk and 20s. to the earl.4. The holding accounts for all the 
4 carucates 5 bovates at which West Ardsley was assessed in 1086, 
except 6 bovates ; and the latter may have formed the tenement 
to which no. 132 below refers. In 1316 Adam de Everingham, Sir 
Robert’s son, was returned as lord of [West] Ardsley.® 

Small holdings in West Ardsley and in Tingley, a hamlet 
there, were the subject of a fine in 1208, by which Humphrey de 
Tingley (Tyngelawe) and Eve his wife recognized 20 acres in [West] 
Ardsley as the right of Thomas Cardinal, who granted to them and 
Eve's heirs the messuage and Caluecroft of Tingley (Thingeslawe), 
with 54 acres there, to hold with a bovate in [West] Ardsley by 
the free service of 8d. yearly, saving forinsec service.* The interest 
of the Cardinal family is shown in a fine of 1234 in which a mes- 
suage in [West] Ardsley which had belonged to Richard Cardinal, 
a wood called Cardinelsal and land in Cardinalrode are mentioned.’ 


132. Gift by Michael son of Elias de Soothill to Richard de Crowle, 
clerk, his heirs or assign, for homage and service, of all his land 
in [West] Ardsley, namely 6 bovates and the assart of Thomas de 
Everingham; to hold of the donor, rendering 3 marks of silver 
yearly and doing to the lord of the fee, namely the abbot of Selby, 
the service of a mark of silver yearly and relief to the donor; for 
which Richard gave 20/2. of silver. [early 13th cent.] 


Farrer MS., from the original penes Lord Savile at Rufford Abbey. 
Abst. in Yorks. Deeds, ii, no. 18. 


Lv YEG a pmes 790. 

2 Complete Peerage, new ed., v, 184, giving the descent of the 
Everingham family from Robert and Isabel. 

3 For the Birkin inheritance see E.Y.C., iii, p. 358 and the ensuing 
charters to p. 386. 

4 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 638 ; Yorks. Inq., ii, no. 52. 

5 Feudal Aids, vi, 200. 

6 Yorks. Fines, John, p. 121. 

7 Tbid., 1232-46, p. 23 ; and cf. Pudsay Deeds, no, 35, 


WEST ARDSLEY 187 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Michael filius Elye de Sothil 
dedi et hac mea presenti carta confirmavi Ricardo de Crul clerico et 
heredibus suis vel cui assignare voluerit pro homagio et servitio suo 
totam terram meam quam habui in Erdeslawe, scilicet sex bovatas terre 
cum omnibus pertinentiis suis et essartum totum integrum quod vocatur 
haya Thome de Everingham et totum jus et tenementum meum sine 
aliquo retenemento tam dominicum meum quam homagia et servitia 
libere tenentium meorum in eadem villa; habenda et tenenda in feudo 
et hereditate de me et heredibus sive assignatis meis libere et quiete 
integre et plenarie pacifice et honorifice in bosco et plano in pratis et 
paschuis in viis et semitis in stagnis et vivariis in molendinis et attachia- 
mentis eorum in aquis ubique et in omnibus locis et aisiamentis libero 
feudo pertinentibus infra villam et extra ; reddendo inde annuatim michi 
et heredibus sive assignatis meis tres marcas argenti et faciendo servi- 
tium annuum quod inde fieri pertinet domino feudi illius, videlicet 
domino abbati de Seleby, unam marcam argenti pro omni servitio 
consuetudine exactione et demanda, medietatem totius ad Pentechosten 
et medietatem ad festum sancti Martini in hyeme; hoc prenotato quod 
predictus Ricardus vel heredes sive assignati sui vel heredes eorum michi 
et heredibus sive assignatis meis pro predicto tenemento relevium facient. 
Pro hac autem concessione et donatione dedit michi predictus Ricardus 
viginti libras argenti in recognitione. Et ego predictus Michael et here- 
des sive assignati mei omnia predicta tenementa cum omnibus perti- 
nentiis suis predicto Ricardo et heredibus sive assignatis suis et heredi- 
bus eorum contra omnes homines warantizabimus adquietabimus et 
defendemus inperpetuum. Hiis testibus, domino Hugone pincerna, 
domino Thoma de Horbyri, magistro Roberto de Huc, Thoma filio 
Elye de Stainford, Petro de Touleston, Petro de Waddewrthe, Galfrido 
de Karleton clerico, Johanne filio Johannis juvenis de Seleby, Johanne 
de Arnetorp, Ricardo filio Rogeri de Barneby, Hugone et Alexandro 
fratribus ejus, et compluribus. 


Farrer in his note on this charter pointed out that it was not entered in 
the Selby Chartulary, and that therefore he proposed to print it although it 
belonged to a date later than was consistent with his scheme, that is to say 
to a date later than c. 1200. He assigned the date as 1219-c. 1240. His 
former limit was evidently based on the fine of Feb. 1218-9 (see the note to 
no. 133) ; but the grantor appears to have had an interest in the 6 bovates 
before then, when his tenure was restricted to one for life (tbed.) ; and a 
date earlier in the century seems more likely. The first witness, probably 
born c. 1175, was steward of Pontefract in the closing years of the reign of 
John.! 

Michael son of Elias de Soothill was presumably a brother of Reginald 
son of Elias de Sothil who quitclaimed to Monk Bretton priory land in 
Hoyland Swaine, held of the honour of Pontefract, in the period 1194-1211;? 
and the Michael son of Elias, who with Thomas de Sothull’ and Robert de 
Sothill’ was acquitted of disseising three named men of common of pasture 


188 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


in [West] Ardsley in 1208.1 In 1227 William de Sothull’, tenant, was the 
defendant in respect of 4 bovates there against Isolda wife of Hugh de 
Muhaut and Julfiana] and Eve her sisters.? 


133. Recognition by Richard de Crowle, clerk, of his yearly payment 
of 3 marks of silver due to Michael son of Elias de Soothill for 
the latter’s land and tenements in [West] Ardsley, a penalty of 
half a mark being incurred for a default in the payment due at 
any term. He would do the service in respect thereof to the lords 
of the fee, namely earl de Warenne and the abbot of Selby; and 
make no relief to anyone. [early 13th cent.] 

MS. Dodsworth viii, f. 210V, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 


Tower, York. Selby Chartulary, Add. MS. 37771, f. 98V ;3 pd. 
in Selby Coucher Book, no. 540. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Ricardus de Crul clericus et 
heredes mei vel quicunque mei fuerint assignati debemus Michaeli 
filio Elie de Sotil et heredibus suis vel assignatis tres marcas argenti 
solvendas sibi nomine firme annuatim in perpetuum pro tota terra 
edificiis redditibus humagiis servitiis et omnibus tenementis et tenuris 
cum pertinentiis sine aliquo retenemento que habuit in Erdeslau, scilicet 
ad Pentecosten viginti solidos et ad festum sancti Martini in yeme xxti 
solidos. Et si contingat quod aliqua occasione ego Ricardus vel succes- 
sores mei in solucione trium marcarum ad predictos terminos defeceri- 
mus concessi pro me et successoribus meis sibi et successoribus suis ad 
quemlibet terminum dimidiam marcam solvere nomine pene pro 
defectu solucionis trium marcarum. Preterea ego Ricardus et heredes 
mei vel assignati faciemus servitium quod inde fieri pertinet dominis 
feodi illius videlicet domino comiti Warren[nie] et heredibus suis et 
domino abbati de Selebi et successoribus suis ad terminos statutos pro 
omni servitio et demanda. Et sciendum est quod ego Ricardus nec 
heredes mei nec assignati ratione firme trium marcarum pro predicto 
tenemento ipsi Michaeli et heredibus suis vel assignatis annuatim 
pertinentium nemini in perpetuum faciemus relevium. In hujus rei 
testimonium huic scripto sigillum meum apposui. His testibus, Wil- 
lelmo de Sothil, Johanne de Heton, Johanne de Sothil, Hugone de 
Montealto, Johanne clerico, Johanne Hogges, Willelmo Passemere, 
Ranulfo de Duninglau, Petro de Toftecliue, Henrico de Thinglau’, 
Ada scriptore hujus carte, et multis aliis. 


There is a section relating to [West] Ardsley in the Selby Chartulary. 
In addition to the present charter there are recorded (a) a recognition by 
Michael son of Elias de Sothil that he and his heirs had to render to Sir John 
de Melsa and his heirs a mark of silver yearly at the Assumption of the B.M. 
for the whole assart called Thom’ Haye, which Thomas de Everingham had 
given Sir John in marriage and was at that time woodland, and for all the 
service of Sir John’s land, namely 6 bovates, in the vill of Erdeslawe which 


1 Curia Regis Rolls, v, 260. 

2 Rot. Claus., ii, 214b. 

3 Without witnesses. There is a marginal note that the charter was in 
the custody of the prior of Nostell. 


WEST ARDSLEY 189 


the tenants of that land had been wont to do to him ; testibus, Johanne de 
Bircin, Johanne de Melsa ;! (b) an agreement between Richard abbot of 
Selby and the convent and John de Melsa, by which the former demised to 
John land in Beverley, and John with the assent of Amice his wife demised 
to the abbot and convent all his land in Erdeslawe, to hold in accordance 
with his charter to Michael de Sotil and his heirs ; testibus, Johanne de 
Byrkin, Adam de Bella Aqua ;? (c) a gift by John de Melsa to Thomas his son 
of all his rent of a mark of silver from the land of Erdeslawe which he had 
received with his wife, which rent Thomas would receive from Michael de 
Sothill or his heirs at the first feast of the B.M. in autumn [the Assumption] ; 
testibus, Johanne de Melsa de Bewich, Simone de Sceftling’ ;? and (d) a 
recognition by Richard de Crull’, clerk, that he held of the abbot and convent 
of Selby all the land which had belonged to Michael de Sothil in Erdeslawe 
and in ‘haya’ for which he (Richard) was bound to them in a rent of a mark, 
half at Whitsuntide and half at Martinmas ; testibus, Ricardo Gramatico, 
etc.4 

From these it can be deduced that Sir John de Melsa married Amice 
daughter of Thomas de Everingham. He died before 16 Feb. 1218-9, when 
Amice his widow, by Thomas her son as attorney, made a fine with Michael 
de Sothull for 6 bovates of land in [West] Ardsley, by which, her right being 
acknowledged, she granted the land to Michael for life, to hold of her and her 
heirs, rendering a mark yearly at the Assumption, with reversion to her and 
her heirs at his death.5 This date proves that the abbot of Selby mentioned 
in (b) above was Richard I, who held office from 1195 to 1214.° Sir John was 
evidently related to the family of Melsa or Meaux of Bewick in Holderness.’ 
John de Melsa of Bewick and Simon de Skeffling, who witnessed (c) above, 
occur as witnesses, preceded by a John de Melsa, toa charter of date 1187- 
1207.8 

It can be suggested that Sir John de Meus who held half a carucate in 
Midgley of Sir Robert de Everingham in 1287 was descended from Sir John 
de Melsa and Amice de Everingham.’ 


134. Notification by Robert Brito of Denaby to Robert de Everingham 
of his gift to the canons of Woodkirk of all the tenement which 
the latter held of him in [West] Ardsley, ordering him to do to 
the canons the service which he had been wont to do to him. 

[early 13th cent.] 


Pd. in Mon. Ang., vi, 100, ‘ex analectis Johannis Hanson de 
Woodhouse in Com. Ebor.’ 


_ Robertus Brito de Dennyngby Roberto de Everingham salutem. 
Sciatis me dedisse et hac presenti carta mea confirmasse Deo et ecclesie 
sancte Marie de Wodkirke et canonicis ibidem totum tenementum quod 


1 Selby Coucher Book, no. 537. 

2 Ibid., no. 535. 

> Tbid., no. 538. 

* Tbid., no. 536. 

> Yorks. Fines, 1218-31, p. 25. 

6 V.C.H. Yorks., iii, 99. 

7 Pedigree in Poulson, Holderness, ii, eerande chain YG, iii Dak OG. 
Saf yY.C., iii, no. 1402. 

® See the Horbury section below, Midgley probably being in Shitlington. 


190 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


de me tenetis in Herdislaw et servitium sine aliquo retinemento in 
puram elemosinam. Quare vobis mando quatinus faciatis eis illud servi- 
tium quod mihi facere consueveritis et ego vobis hoc warantizabo 
contra omnes homines, etc. 


This is followed by a charter of John earl de Warenne quitclaiming to 
the canons of Woodkirk the suit of his court of Wakefield for the tenements 
which the canons possessed in [West] Ardsley of the gift of Robert Brito of 
Deningby ; witnesses, Ralph de Horbiry, John his brother, Thomas Cooke, 
steward, William de Langfeld, constable of the castle of Sandal. Then, 
presumably an endorsement, “Debetur magistro de Wodkirke pro 

The grantor of the present charter, son of Matthew Brito of Denaby by 
his wife Avice, gave land in Conisborough to Lewes priory at a date probably 
earlier than 1189 (no. 124). He appears to have inherited his interest in 
West Ardsley from Rainald son of Brito who was living 1138-47 (no. 31, and 
see the introductory notes above). Robert de Everingham did not die until 
June 1246 ;? and the date of the present charter is not likely to be earlier 
than the thirteenth century. 


(11) CRIGGLESTON 


In 1086 1 carucate 2 bovates in Criggleston were soke of the 
manor of Wakefield. In the twelfth century, as the ensuing chart- 
ers show, Henry de Eland was in possession of a holding there. 

Farrer has recorded some notes on the early generations of 
the family of Criggleston in his annotation to a charter of Alan de 
Criggleston, giving to Thomas his brother for the sum of 14 marks 
sterling all his land which Sibyl his mother had held in Wombwell 
[par. Darfield], doing the forinsec service for a quarter of a knight’s 
fee.3 This land formed part of the Aincurt tenancy in chief, and 
lay in the Aincurt portion of Wombwell, being held immediately of 
that fee by the family of St. Mary. Farrer gave references for the 
occurrence of Adam de Criggleston in 1179, and of Sybil his widow 
in 1196 ; for an exchange of land in Bretton between Alan de Crig- 
gleston and Swain de Bretton in 1202 ;.and for a gift by Jordan de 
St. Mary to Thomas de Criggleston, son of Adam, and Christiana 
his wife of his chief messuage with the demesne in Wombwell, with 
specified exceptions. Thomas de Criggleston gave to the priory of 
Healaugh Park his land which he had purchased from Alan his 
brother ; and Robert son of Adam de Criggleston gave a bovate in 
Wombwell for the soul of Thomas his brother.* In 1242-43 an Adam 
de Criggleston held an eighth of a knight’s fee of the honour of 
Pontefract.° 

1 This amount is suspicious, and may be an error for xl denariorum, the 
amount of the rent in 1287-8 (see the introductory notes above). 

2 Complete Peerage, new ed., v, 184n. 

3 E.Y.C., 1, no. 646 ; date assigned 1195-1216. 

4 Healaugh Park Chartulary, pp. 61-2. The representative in the next 
generation was Hugh de Criggleston, who with William his son and heir 
issued a charter in favour of the priory (zbid., p. 63). Hugh was a party toa 
fine relating to a portion of the manor of Wombwell in Jan. 1248-9 (Yorks. 
Fines, 1246-72, p. 8). 

5 Bk. of Fees, p. 1103. 


CRIGGLESTON 191 


It is likely that William de Crikelestun who with John and 
Peter his brothers was appealed of the death of Gilbert son of Pain, 
uncle of Robert de Bailoil, in 1218 was of the same family.t Pos- 
sibly John was the John de Crigleston who had an interest in land 
in Kilpin, par. Howden, in 1202 ;? and Peter the Peter de Crikelis- 
ton who with Eve his wife held Tritlington and Earsdon, both par. 
Bothal, Northumberland, of the barony of Bothal for a knight's 
fee of old feoffment in 1242-43.8 


These references do not suggest that the family held any 
important interest in the place from which their name was derived. 
This negative deduction is confirmed by the terms of a fine of 
1 Dec. 1234 between Godfrey de Beaumont,* plaintiff, and Robert 
de Rockel [Rockley] and Margery his wife, impedients, as to a 
carucate of land in Criggleston, by which they gave the land to 
him and his heirs to hold of them and Margery’s heirs for 2d. yearly 
and doing the forinsec service due to the chief lords ; for 20 marks 
of silver ; a quitclaim being made to Godfrey and his heirs by 
Philip de Wudehall.6 There seems to be no clue to the origin of 
Margery’s interest. 


135. Gift by Henry son of Lesing de Eland to the hospital of St. Peter, 
York, of 8 acres of land with common pasture for specified num- 
bers of animals in the territory of Criggleston; the donor and 
Alice his wife to share in the benefits of the house. [c. 1188-1202] 


MS. Dodsworth cxx B, f. 98, from St. Leonard’s Chartulary, 2nd 
vol., f. 104. © 


Ego Henricus filius Lesingi de Eland dedi hospitali sancti Petri 
Ebor[acensis] octo? acras terre continuas in Bradleia rode in territorio 
de Crigleston cum communi pastura ubique pro duobus’ caballis 
sexdecim’ animalibus preterquam averiis sue caruce et sexaginta’ ovibus 
ut ego et Alicia uxor mea participes simus, etc. Testibus,* Thoma de 
Horbiry, Roberto de Liuerseg, Willelmo filio Thome, Alano de Crig- 
leston, Willelmo de Horbiri, Rogero de Tornetona, Roberto de Sandale, 
Adam de Sitebutton,® Hugone filio Herman’. 


1 Rot. Claus., i, 378b. 

2 Yorks. Fines, John, p. 45. He had been granted land in Howden and 
Kilpin by the bp of Durham in 1199 (Feet of Fines, Pipe Roll Soc. vol. xxiv, 
p. 204) ; his son Thomas was a party to a fine in 1252 (Yorks. Fines, 1246-72, 
p. 84). 

*) BR. of Fees, p. 1117. 

+ Presumably the same man who had been constable of Sandal ; see 
Chapter V. 

5 Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 22. 

6 The charter appears to come from neither of the vols. of the Chart- 
ulary, B.M. Cotton MS. Nero D. iii and Bodleian Library, Rawlinson MS. 
B 455. 

7 In arabic, MS. 

8 Teste, MS. 

9 Sic ; evidently for Sitelinton [Shitlington]. 


192 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


This charter proves the paternity of Henry de Eland the elder. As 
Henry son of Leising and also as Henry de Elond he witnessed charters of 
earl Hamelin (nos. 67, 69). He was probably a younger brother of Hugh de 
Eland, the ancestor of the Eland family, which held Elland and Southowram 
in Yorkshire and a moiety of Rochdale in Lancashire of the Lascy fee—a 
family whose name is associated with the romantic though tragic glamour 
of the ‘“‘Eland Feud” in the fourteenth century, and whose inheritance in 
the main line passed to Isabel de Eland, wife of Sir John Savile.! It seems 
clear that Henry de Eland held the other moiety of Rochdale, which passed 
in thirds to the issue of his three daughters ; and it can be supposed that 
Rochdale had been divided between Hugh and Henry by their father Lesing.? 
Henry’s interest in Criggleston and his death before 7 July 1202 is shown in 
a fine of that date, by which Alice his widow remitted her right in her dower 
in Criggleston to Robert de Sandal, who had vouched William de Horbury 
and Roger de Thornton to warranty ; and for this the said William and Roger 
granted her 2 bovates in Elland to hold of them, and also a third part of the 
service of Robert de Sandal, held of them in Criggleston, namely a third of 
12s. 3d, a third of the service of 6 bovates in Dewsbury, a third of the service 
of half a carucate in Hipperholme, held by Robert de Liversedge,? a third 
of the service of 4 bovates in the same, held by Gilbert de Lascy and Agnes 
his wife, and a third of the service of 2 bovates in N orthowram, to hold of 
them (William and Roger) and their heirs, rendering yearly 6s. 3d.4. Com- 
paring these details with those in the inquisition of tenements in the county 
of Lancaster in 1212, where it is recorded that Roger de Lascy had given to 
Robert de Flainesburch in marriage with the daughter of Robert de Liver- 
sedge precisely one sixth of 8 carucates of the Clitheroe fee [certainly in Roch- 
dale], that Roger de Thornton and Thomas de Horbury held another sixth, 
and that Roger de Lascy had given to Gilbert de Lascy in marriage with 
Agnes daughter of John de Owram) another sixth,® it can be deduced that 
of Henry de Eland’s three daughters one was the mother of two daughters, 
the wives of Roger de Thornton and William de Horbury’ respectively, a 
second married Robert de Liversedge, and the third married John de Owram.® 
Henry de Eland the elder must not be confused with a younger Henry 
(younger son of Richard son of Hugh), who was living later than 1202.9 


Sa ee eee 


* An account of the family by the present writer is pd. in Y.A./., xevik 
pp. 225-47, with a chart ped. on p. 248. 

2 Ibid., pp. 228-31. Farrer in his notes on the family (£.Y.C.., iii, p. 212) 
wrote that “‘as both Rochdale, Elland and South Owram were held T.R.E. 
by Gamel there is a strong presumption that the Ellands were his lineal 
descendants.” 

> Not Kinerseg’ as in the pd. text. 

* Yorks. Fines, John, p. 17. 

° Himerum, vecte Huuerum. 

° Bk. of Fees, pp. 211-2; the other moiety was held as to 34 car. by 
Hugh de Eland and as to ? car. by Stanlawe abbey. 

7 His son Thomas succeeding before 1212; see the section relating to 
Horbury below. 

® Y.A.J., ut sup., pp. 228-32, where some further details from Whalley 
Coucher Book are cited. 

° Y.A.J., ut sup., pp. 230, 232-3 ; and see charter no. 139 below. 


CRIGGLESTON 193 


The first witness to the present charter can be identified as Thomas son 
of Matthew de Horbury who succeeded his father between 1188 and 1196.1 


136. Gift by Henry de Eland, for the health of his soul and that of 
Alice his wife, to Nostell priory of 18 acres of land in the 
territory of Criggleston. [c. 1188-1202] 


MS. Dodsworth viii, f. 117, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, 
f. 33V (old p. 68). 2 


Sciant tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Henricus de Heland 
pro salute anime mee et uxoris mee Aliz et pro animabus heredum et 
parentum et antecessorum meorum dedi et concessi et hac presenti 
carta mea confirmavi Deo et ecclesie sancti Oswaldi de Nostlat et canoni- 
cis ibidem Deo servientibus, in liberam et puram et perpetuam ele- 
mosinam, decem et octo acras terre in territorio de Criglestona, scilicet 
Leveteflat que est juxta viam que tendit ad Sandal; tenendas libere et 
quiete cum communitate predicte ville de Criglestona in bosco et plano 
in aquis et viis in pratis et pascuis et aliis asiamentis ad predictam terram 
pertinentibus. Et ego et heredes mei guarantizabimus predictis can- 
onicis hanc elemosinam in omnibus et contra omnes homines. Hiis 
testibus, Gileb[erto] capellano de Holmaesbiri, Radulfo de Vuiresuile 
persona de Himlesyrtha, Roberto persona de Sandala, Simone capella[no] 
de Crigleston’, Thoma de Horbiri, Jordano fratre ejus, Henrico filio 
Roberti de Lifreseg, Rogero filio Willelmi de Bingeleya, Alano filio 
Ade de Criglestona, Thoma fratre ejus, Willelmo de Vitteleia clerico, et 
multis altis. 


Seal®; a bird looking backward to the dexter ; J SIGILLVM . HENRICI 
. DE . HELANDE. 


The first witness appears as Gilbert the chaplain of Almannesbiry 
[Almondbury ; the form above is evidently corrupt] or Almanbiri in nos. 143, 
167 below ; and of Alemanebir[ia] in a Kirkheaton charter.4 The name of 
the second witness, rector of Hemsworth, is probably a corruption for a form 
of Wennerville,> for he can be identified with Ralph de Winnerwilla, not 
described as a rector, who witnessed no. 143 with the first and third witnesses 
to the present one. 


(il) NORTH CROSLAND 


In 1086 one carucate in North Crosland was soke of the 
manor of Wakefield ; and Ilbert de Lascy held a manor of 2 caru- 
cates in South Crosland, which remained a member of the honour 
of Pontefract. 


1 See the section relating to Horbury below. Thomas son of Matthew 
had a brother Jordan ; and the Thomas of this charter is evidently the 
rae as the Thomas who with his brother Jordan witnessed the next (no. 

36). 

2 Without witnesses. 

3 Drawn by Dodsworth. 

een (o., 11; No. 1712. 

5 Fasti Parochiales, Y.R.S., i, 135. 


194 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


It is not always easy to distinguish between North and 
South Crosland ; but it can be supposed that any land held by 
knight-service lay in the latter. It seems clear that a portion of 
South Crosland was known as Crosland fosse.1 John de Lascy, 
earl of Lincoln, granted to Richard de Fossato, c. 1233-34, land in 
[South] Crosland to hold by the service of a fifth of a knight’s 
fee ;? and in 1251 Richard de Fosse vouched Edmund de Lascy to 
warrant 7 bovates of land there.? The manor of South Crosland was 
held of the honour of Pontefract from the thirteenth century by the 
family of Beaumont ; and it was at Crosland Hall that Sir Robert 
de Beaumont, according to tradition, was slain by Sir John de 
Eland.4 | 

There is also a reference to the fee and bridge of Crosslande 
Rogeri in a charter issued by Robert de Notingham, rector of 
Almondbury.® At first sight Crosland Rogeri, as distinct from 
Crosland fosse, should be equated with North Crosland ; but the 
topographical details in the charter make this almost impossible, 
especially as the messuage called the hermitage was in Crosland 
Rogeri and it is known that the hermitage (from which Armitage 
Bridge took its name) was within the bounds of South Crosland.® 
It must therefore be deduced that Crosland Rogeri was a portion 
of the latter vill. 

The family of Crosland was principally connected with North 
Crosland, where lay their residence of Crosland Hill.? But they 
also held a tenancy of the honour of Pontefract in South Crosland. 
Thus, c. 1212-15, Adam son of Roger de Crosland gave to Ponte- 
fract priory, for the health of the souls of his lords Henry, Robert | 
and Roger de Lascy, a rent of 2s. from Robert his son from the 
land of the hermitage (heremitagie) lying by Caldewenedenebroc 
towards the south side within the bounds of [South] Crosland.§ 


137. Gift by Adam de Crosland to Fountains abbey of millstones 
from his land of [? North] Crosland sufficient for the abbey mills 
of Bradley, reserving to himself and his heirs the remainder of 
the quarry; and grant of wood on his property for making the 
millstones and taking them over his land except through corn 
and meadow. [c. 1195-1215] 


1 For the history of South Crosland see Philip Ahier, The History and 
Topography of South Crosland, Armitage Bridge and Netherton (Holmfirth, 
1938). Abstracts of several deeds from Dodsworth’s MSS. relating to North 
and South Crosland and dating from the thirteenth century are pd. in Y.A./., 
vi, pp. 446-50. In one of these, a charter of William de Beaumont, of date 
1302-03, Crossland-fosse and North Crossland are mentioned together, 
showing that these two places were not identical. 

oY Ald Vineet 

3 Yorks. Fines, 1246-72, p. 50. 

tiv. J. axveeal 

> Ibid., ix, 393, where the full text is pd. from the original ; the date 
is mid 13th cent. 

6 See the charter from the Pontefract Chartulary cited below. 

7 For their pedigree to the early eighteenth cent. see Dugdale’s 
Visitation, ed. J. W. Clay, 1, 181. 

8 Pontefract Chartulary, no. 456 ; noticed in E.Y.C., ili, p. 349. 


NORTH CROSLAND 195 


Fountains Chartulary, Cotton MS. Tiberius C. xii, f. 207V (old f. 
204V). Abst. in Fountains Chartulary, p. 132. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis presentibus et futuris Adam 
de Crosseland salutem. Sciatis me dedisse et presenti carta mea con- 
firmasse Deo et monachis sancte Marie de Fontibus pro salute anime 
mee et uxoris mee et omnium antecessorum meorum ut capiant molas 
sufficientes ad molendina sua de Bradeley in perpetuum super terram 
meam de Crosland ubi et quando eis magis commodum fuerit, ita tamen 
quod ego et heredes mei de residuo quarere libere faciemus quod vol- 
uerimus. Concessi eciam eis ut capiant ligna super meum ubi voluerint 
ad ipsas molas faciendas et removendas cupplandas et ducendas per 
terram meam sicut eis placuerit ubique extra bladum et pratum sine 
impedimento mei vel heredum meorum. Et ego et heredes mei hanc 
elemosinam eis warantizabimus in perpetuum. His testibus, Alexandro 
de Neuill’, Willelmo Flandrensi, Jordano de Hedun!, Adam de Miri- 
feud, Ricardo Purcel, Willelmo Wihaut. 


Of the witnesses named Jordan de Heton, Adam de Mirfield and William 
Withaud occur togéther in Kirkheaton charters in the period 1195-1215.? 
The relative position of Bradley, lower down the river Colne, makes it likely 
that the charter refers to the grantor’s land in North Crosland. 


(iv) FARNLEY (LEEDS) 


It has been pointed out in the introductory notes to this 
Chapter that the 3 carucates in Farnley, par. Leeds, which were 
soke of the manor of Wakefield at the Domesday survey, subse- 
quently passed to the honour of Pontefract. No document relating 
to Farnley was included by Farrer among the charters of the 
Lascy fee ; and the following charter is therefore printed here, 
although it is improbable that the land formed part of the manor 
of Wakefield at the date of issue. 


138. Gift by Samson son of Peter de Farnley to the church of St. 
Peter, Leeds, of a yearly rent of 13d. from the land held of him 
in Farnley by Aldred his man. In return Robert, prior of Holy 
Trinity, York, and Paulinus, priest of Leeds, granted him per- 
mission to hold his service in the chapel of Farnley. [c. 1180-86] 

MS. Dodsworth cxxvii, f. 158, from the charter in the custody of 
Richard Gascoigne. | 
Universis sancte matris ecclesie filiis Samson filius Petri de 

Farnelei salutem. Sciatis me dedisse et concessisse et hac presenti carta 

mea confirmasse Deo et ecclesie sancti Petri de Ledes tresdecim* den- 

arios de terra quam Aldredus homo meus de me tenet in Farnel[ei] 
annuatim reddendos ad duos anni terminos, videlicet sex denarios ad 

Pentecosten et obolum et alios sex denarios et obolum ad festum sancti 

Martini hiemal’, in puram et perpetuam elemosinam, pro salute anime 


1 4.e., Hetun. 

2 E.Y.C., iii, nos. 1706, 1711 ; and cf. nos. 1701, 1703-4, 1708-9, witnes- 
sed by Adam de Crosland. 

3 Arabic in MS. 


196 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


mee et pro animabus omnium antecessorum meorum, et. propter hoc 
Robertus prior sancte Trinitatis Ebor[acensis] et Paulinus sacerdos de 
Ledes concesserunt mihi et heredibus meis servitium meum in capella 
de Farnelei secundum conventionem que continetur in cyrographo. 
Hanc autem conventionem fideliter tenendam ego Samson filius Petri 
tactis sacrosanctis sacramentum corporaliter prestiti. Et ut hoc donum 
stabile permaneat sigilli mei autoritate confirmavi. Si autem hanc 
conventionem tenere noluero in predicta capella nullum servitium 
habebo. Testibus, Roberto priore et toto capitulo sancte Trinitatis, 
Paulino sacerdote de Ledes, Petro de Altaripa, Hugone filio ejus, Thoma 
Paitvin, Willelmo filio Thome de Ledes, Adam et Rogero sacerdotibus. 


Robert became prior of Holy Trinity in succession to Bernard, who 
became prior not earlier than 1175 ;! Robert occurs as prior in the periods 
1180-907 and 1191-1207,? and in 1208.4 Paulinus occurs as ‘sacerdos de 
Ledes’ in 1172 ; he became rector of St. Peter’s hospital in or about 1186 ; 
and died in 1201 or 1202.5 

The grantor of this charter, as Sampson de Farnleia, witnessed a 
charter with prior Bernard, 1175-86. Having regard to the interest held 
by the Wridlesford family in Farnley,’ which passed to the Longvillers 
family in the middle of the 13th centuary,® it is tempting to suggest the 
identity of Samson son of Peter de Farnley with Samson de Wridlesford, the 
grantor of no. 139 below ; but no convincing evidence is available. 

The church of Leeds had been given to Holy Trinity priory by Ralph 
Paynel at the end of the eleventh century ;? and archbishop Thurstan in his 
confirmation charter, c. 1121-1138, prohibited the erection of any chapel 
or oratory within the territory of the church of the parish without the 
permission of the prior and chapter.1° 


(v) FIXBY 


In 1086 one carucate in Fixby was soke of the manor of 
Wakefield. Before the end of the twelfth century a subordinate 
manor was created, consisting of half the vill ; and the other half 
remained as a member of the manorial demesne of Wakefield.™ 

John de Wridlesford held the manorial rights which he had 
presumably inherited from Samson de Wridlesford, the grantor of 
the first of these charters. He gave, c. 1240-50, to Michael de 


1 £.Y.C., vi, no. 29 note. 

2 Ibid., i, no. 296. 

3 Ibid., vi, no. 54. 

* Yorks. Fines, John, p. 134. 

> E.Y.C., i, p. 245 ; and see the references to him in ibid., vi, p. 177% 

® Ibtd., vi, no. 29. 

* See the note to no. 139 below. 

8 By a fine in 1250 Walter de Wridlesford transferred to John de 
Longvillers more than 3 car. in Farnley as an immediate tenancy of the 
chief lord (Yorks. Fines, 1246-72, p. 15). This tenancy, held of the Lascy 
fee, passed through the Longvillers heiress to the Nevilles of Hornby ; see 
the details in E.Y.C., vii, pp. 178-9. 

9 See E.Y.C., vi, nos. 1-6, 8-12, 84-6. 

10 Jbid., no. 9. 

11 Notes on the early history of Fixby, primarily based on the late 
Mr. T. B. Clarke-Thornhill’s Fixby deeds, are given in App. I to Yorks. Deeds, 
vol. iv. What follows is a summary of the evidence recorded there. 


BIXBY 197 


Briestwistle and Maud his wife, the donor’s sister, and their heirs 
all his land of Fixby, both in lordships and services, etc., at a 
yearly rent to the chapel of St. Helen of Farnley [par. Leeds] of a 
pound of wax ; his charter being witnessed by Ralph de Horbury, 
steward of John de Warenne, Walter de Ludham, steward of 
Edmund de Lascy, and others.t In 1255 Michael de Briestwistle 
held the wardship of a member of the Fixby family.2) He was 
succeeded by John son of Sir John de Hoderode, who occurs in 
1286 and 1288,? and whose interest appears to have been due to 
matriage with Denise daughter of Michael de Briestwistle. Their 
son Robert de Hoderode died in 1297-98, when the manor passed 
to William de Beaumont, who subsequently transferred it to 
Thomas de Totehill,t whose granddaughter Margaret married 
c. 1365 Richard de Thornhill as her second husband. The manor 
was inherited by their son William de Thornhill, and remained in 
unbroken male descent in the Thornhill family until the middle 
of the nineteenth century.°® 

No member of a family taking its name from Fixby held the 
lordship of the subordinate manor. Members of the Fixby family 
or families appear either to have been tenants of the manor, or 
else to have held tenancies or sub-tenancies of the manor of Wake- 
field in the non-manorialised portion of the vill. 


139. Gift by Samson de Wridlesford to William the clerk of Fixby 
and his heirs, for homage and service and half a mark given in 
recognition, of 13 acres of land of the assart in the wood of 
Fixby and an acre of land in the fields of Fixby on which to 
make his buildings, rendering to the grantor and his heirs 28d. 
yearly, half at Whitsuntide and half at Martinmas. [c. 1185-1202] 

PLATE XXIV 


Original charter, Fixby Deeds, parcel ii, belonging to the late 
T. B. Clarke-Thornhill, esq., now in the custody of the Yorks. 
Arch. Soc. Pd. in Thoresby Soc. vol. xxvi, Miscellanea, p. 250; 
abst. in Yorks. Deeds, iv, no. 187. 


Sciant omnes posteri et presentes . quod ego Samson de 
Wridelesford . dedi . et concessi . et hac presenti carta mea confirmaui 
Willelmo clerico de Fekesbi et heredibus suis pro homagio et seruitio 
suo et pro dimidia marca argenti . quam dedit mihi de recognitione . 
xiij. acras terre de essarto in boscho de Fekesbi . et unam acram terre in 
campis de Fekesbi . ubi faciet edificia sua . vj. acras terre uidelicet inter 


1 [bid., no. 188 ; and for the identification of Farnley see Thoresby Soc. 
vol. xxvi, Miscellanea, pp. 244-5 ; where the full text of the charter is pd. 
(p. 251). 

2 cao Deeds, iv, no. 189. 

3 Tbid., nos. 191-2. 

4 For deeds relating to this and the subsequent history of the manor of 
Fixby see 7b7d., iii, nos. 99 et seq. 

> A chart ped. of the early generations of the Thornhills of Fixby is 
given in ibid., App. IV; for subsequent generations see Dugdale’s Visitation 
of Yorks., ed. J. W. Clay, i, 80. The manor passed on Mr. Clarke-Thornhill’s 
death in 1934 to the representative of the family in the male line. 


198 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Hackinge . et Schalecloh . et vij. acras in Knauewellehirst . tenendas de 
me et heredibus meis in feudo et hereditate . libere . et quiete . in boscho 
et plano . in pascuis . in ulis in semitis . et in omnibus communitatibus 
et eisiamentis ad predictam uillam de Fekesbi pertinentibus . reddendo 
mihi et heredibus meis pro predicta terra annuatim . xxviij. d[enarios] 
pro omni seruitio . et exactione . scilicet . xiiij. d[enarios] . ad Pente- 
costen et xilij. d[enarios] . ad festum sancti Martini. Et ego et heredes 
mei warentizabimus prefato Willelmo et heredibus suis supradictam 
terram contra omnes homines. Hiis testibus . Henrico de Elandia . 
Hugone de Elandia . Roberto de Liuersege . Ric[ardo] de Hiperum . 
Henr[ico] filio Ric[ardi] de Elandia . Roberto fratre suo . Gamelo de 
Fekesbi . Thoma filio suo . Ric[ardo] filio Suani . Henr[ico] fratre suo . 
Iuone Taleuaz . Rob[erto] de Erdeslaue . Gileberto Grimbald . Johanne 
de Lindthait. 


Tag for seal, missing. 
Endorsed in a later hand: Bosc’ de Fixbie. 


The grantor took his name from the place now known as Woodlesford, 
par. Rothwell, which was a member of the honour of Pontefract.1. He was 
steward of Robert de Lascy, probably in the middle or late period of Robert’s 
tenure of the honour (1177-93) ; and was living in 1202 and c. 1210.2, He 
evidently held a tenancy of that honour in Farnley, par. Leeds, where John 
de Wridlesford, probably his grandson, held an interest. The present 
charter shows that he also held a tenancy of the Warenne manor of Wake- 
field. The date is not later than 1202, when Henry de Eland the elder, the 
first witness, was dead ; the earlier limit being suggested by the presence of 
younger members of the Eland family.* 


140. Gift by Robert son of Swain de Fixby to Ivo Talvas, for his hom- 
age and service, of a bovate of land in Fixby; to hold of the donor 
and his heirs, rendering 6d. yearly for all service except forinsec 
service. Warranty, or in default thereof an exchange of equal 
value. [c. 1185-1196] 

Fountains Chartulary, Cotton MS. Tiberius C. xii, f. 209V (old 206Y). 
Abst. in Fountains Chartulary, p. 133. 

Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Robertus filius Suani de 
Fekesb[i] dedi et concessi et hac mea carta confirmavi Yuoni Taleuaz, 
pro homagio suo et servicio quod michi fecit, unam bovatam terre in 
Fekesby, scilicet le Dunfal ejusdem ville cum omnibus pertinenciis, 
illi et heredibus suis tenendam de me et heredibus meis in feudo et 
hereditate libere et quiete plenarie in plano et bosco in pratis et pascuis 


1 Bk. of Fees, p. 1103; Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1226-57, p. 357. For the family 
of Wridlesford or Woodlesford see Thoresby Soc. vol. xxvi, Miscellanea, pp. 
243-52. 

2 A list of references to Samson is given ibid., pp. 251-2. He witnessed 
no. 158 below in 1198. 

3 Ibid., p. 244; cf. the rent to Farnley chapel mentioned in the intro- 
ductory notes above, and a reference to the family’s interest there in the note 
to no. 138 above. 

+ See the note to no, 135; and for the younger members the note to no. 
140, 


PLATE XXIV 


SS ee 


Aid bla bio fle 


rule phoage 
Ode eS : gin: 94 pom = 
je “ppe 1-& Ad deb br asfigston’. 1 ii 


5 ob hs fs $f 


No. 139 eR 


FIXBY 199 


et aquis in viis et semitis et in omnibus libertatibus que pertinent ad 
unam bovatam terre in supradicta villa; reddendo inde annuatim ille 
et heredes sui michi et heredibus meis pro omni seruicio et exaccione 
vj. denarios, scilicet ad festum sanctorum Petri et Pauli iij. denarios et 
ad festum sancti Oswaldi iij. denarios saluo forinseco seruicio. Predic- 
tam vero terram guarantizabimus ego et heredes mei illi et heredibus 
suis; aut si eam garentizare non poterimus dabimus ei excambiam ad 
valenciam. Hiis testibus, Ricardo de Eland, Hugone et Henrico, 
Roberto, Willelmo, Johanne, Helya filiis eyus, Johanne Taleuaz, Johanne, 
Willelmo et Thoma filiis ejus, Johanne filio Utred, Henrico, Willelmo, 
Hugone, Roberto filiis ejus, Ricardo filio Henrici, Henrico et Elya filiis 
suis, Suano filio Bernolf, Henrico et Ricardo filiis suis, Ricardo filio 
Ferg’, Ricardo filio Suani de Fekesb[i], Henrico fratre ejus, Helya 
Taleuaz, Roberto et Henrico fratribus suis, Osb[erto] de Wrdesthoren’, 
Roberto et Ma|[t]h[eo] filiis suis, Radulfo clerico de Hiperum qui hanc 
cartam scripsit, et multis altis. 


The first witness, Richard de Eland, was son of Hugh de Eland, probably 

_ elder brother of Henry de Eland the elder. Richard was living in 1166 and 
1184-5, and was dead by 1196; he had a younger brother Hugh, who was 
probably the second witness to no. 139.1 The present charter gives the names 
of his six sons, from the eldest of whom, Hugh, the main line of the family 
descended. Ivo Talvas, the grantee, was the ancestor of the family of Copley.? 


141. Gift by Robert son of Swain de Fixby to Ivo Talvas, for his hom- 
age and service and a payment of 10s., of all the assarts belonging 
to a bovate of land in Fixby : to hold of the donor and his heirs, 
rendering 8d. yearly for all service. [c. 1185-96] 


Fountains Chartulary, Cotton MS. Tiberius C. xii, f. 210 (old f. 207). 
Abst. in Fountains Chartulary, p. 133. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Robertus filius Suani de 
Fekesb[i] dedi et concessi et hac mea carta confirmavi Yuoni Taleuaz, 
pro homagio suo et servicio quod michi fecit et recognicione quam inde 
michi dedit, scilicet decem solidis, omnes essartos qui pertinent ad 
unam bovatam terre in Feke[s]b[i], scilicet ad propriorem bovatam 
Dunfallo, plenarie in bosco et plano cum omnibus libertatibus et 
aisiamentis que pertinent ad tantum terre in supradicta Fekesbi; illi et 
heredibus suis tenendos de me et heredibus meis in feudo et hereditate 
libere et quiete, reddendo inde annuatim michi et heredibus meis pro 
omni seruicio et exaccione viij. denarios, scilicet iiij. denarios infra 
octavas apostolorum Petri et Pauli et iiij. denarios infra octavas sancti 
Oswaldi. Hiis testibus, Hugone de Eland, Henrico, Roberto, Willelmo 
fratribus suis, Johanne Taleuaz, Johanne, Willelmo, Thoma filiis suis, 
Johanne filio Uhtred, Henrico, Willelmo, Roberto filiis suis, Ricardo 
filio Henrici, Henrico, Elya filiis suis, Osb[erto] de Wurdestorn’, 
Roberto, Matheo filiis suis, Suein filio Bernolf, Henrico, Waltero, 


1 For these statements see the account of the Eland family, cited above 
in the note to no. 135, in Y.A./J., xxvii, pp. 226-7, 232-3, 248. 

2 W. Paley Baildon’s account of the Copley family in Thoresby Soc. 
vol, xxvi, Miscellanea, pp. 355 et seq. 


200 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Ricardo filiis suis, Ricardo de Fekesb[i], Henrico fratre suo, Helya 
Taleuaz, Roberto fratre ejus, Radulfo de Hiperum, et multis aliis. 


Although Richard de Eland, giving the latest date as 1196, did not 
witness, the charter was evidently issued at much the same period as no. 140. 


142. Quitclaim by Robert son of Swain de Fixby to Ivo Talvas and 
his heirs of 12d. of the service due from his land of Fixby; for 
homage and service and 10s. of silver in recognition. 

[c. 1200-1218] 


Fountains Chartulary, Cotton MS. Tiberius C. x1i, f. 210V (old f. 2079). 
Abst. in Fountains Chartulary, p. 134. 

Sciant omnes tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Robertus filius 
Suani de Fekesbi quietamclamavi imperpetuum Yuoni Taleuas et 
heredibus suis duodecim denarios de servicio suo quod debuit michi 
de terra sua de Fekesby, pro homagio et servicio suo et pro decem 
solidis argenti quos mihi dedit de recognicione. Hiis testibus, Matheo 
de Sepelaia tunc ballivo domini comitis, Hugone de Heland, Ricardo 
filio suo, Thoma de Bamford, Henrico de Huperum, Henrico de 
Huuerum, Rogero de Rastric, Waltero de Huperum, et multis aliis. 


This charter must have been issued some years later than nos. 140-1. 
The second witness and Richard his son, who died v.p., witnessed deeds 
together in 1204-091 and c. 1220-30.2 The first witness was the earl’s steward 
in 1218-19; see Chapter V. The word ballivus was used comprehensively 
and could include the office of principal steward ;* but the evidence of the 
charters in the present volume does not suggest its use as an equivalent for 
the senescallus of the earls for their Yorkshire possessions ; and it seems likely 
that Matthew de Shepley was filling a minor administrative office at this 
period. 


143. Gift by Henry de Eland to Fountains abbey of all the land and 
pasture [in Fixby] which he held of Gamel son of Ulchel, render- 
ing to him and his heirs two spurs yearly at Michaelmas for all 
service. [c. 1188-1202] 

Fountains Chartulary, Cotton MS. Tiberius C. xii, f. 206V (old f. 
203V). Abst. in Fountains Chartulary, p. 131. 

Sciant omnes tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Henricus de 
Helanda dedi et concessi et hac presenti carta confirmavi Deo et sancte 
Marie et monachis de Fontibus pro salute anime mee et uxoris mee 
heredum et omnium antecessorum meorum imperpetuum totam 
terram et pasturam cum omnibus aisiamentis quam tenui de Gamello 
filio Ulchel et heredibus suis per divisas et metas que continentur in 
carta quam habui de predicto Gamello; tenendam de me et heredibus 
meis in puram et perpetuam elemosinam liberam et quietam ab omni 
terreno servicio et seculari exaccione. Et ego et heredes mei warantiza- 
bimus et adquietabimus et defendemus predictas terras prenominatis 
monachis ubique et erga homines. Et sciendum quod monachi de 

1 Fountains Chartulary, p. 124. 


2 Y.A.J., xxvii, 234, citing Whalley Coucher Book, p. 600. 
3 On this point see E.Y.C., vii, p. 291. 


FIXBY ae 201 


Fontibus dabunt michi et heredibus meis annuatim duo calcaria in die 
sancti Michaelis pro omni servicio. Hiis testibus, Gilberto capellano 
de Almannesbiry, Roberto persona de Sandala, Radulfo de Winnerwilla, 
Henrico filio Roberti de Liuuersege, Petro filio Iggi. 


There follows a confirmation by Roger de Thorneton’ and William de 
Horbirie of all the land and pasture which Henry de Eland gave, the monks 
to render the spurs as before ; warranty according to the charters which the 
monks had of Henry de Eland and Gamel concerning the same land of 
Fekesbi; hiis testibus, Gaufrido Haget, Hugone de Eland, Roberto de 
Liuersege et Henrico filio ejus, Ricardo de Hiprum. 

This confirmation proves that the donor was Henry de Eland the elder, 
two of whose heirs general Roger de Thornton and William de Horbury mar- 
ried : see the notes at no. 135. Henry de Eland was dead in 1202. A com- 
parison of the witnesses shows that this charter and no. 136 were issued in 
the same period. William de Horbury was succeeded by his son Thomas by 
1212, which was therefore the latest date for the confirmation. 


(vi) HALIFAX 


The table printed in the introductory notes to this Chapter, 
which includes the Domesday assessment of places within the 
extensive parish of Halifax, being members of the manor of Wake- 
field, shows that in addition to the 6 carucates in Halifax itself 
there were seven berewicks with a combined assessment of 26 
carucates, and soke in eight places with a combined assessment of 
94 or 10 carucates ;1 a total of 41} or 42 carucates. In addition to 
these there were 34 carucates in Elland and 3 carucates in South- 
owram, both in the parish of Halifax, which were held by Ibert 
de Lascy and became members of the honour of Pontefract. 


Texts of comparatively few charters earlier than 1240 re- 
lating to places within the parish are available. Some relating to 
Fixby, Old Lindley, Rastrick, and Sowerbyshire are given in their 
respective sections ; and similarly some relating to Holdsworth, 
Rishworth, and Saltonstall—places which were not mentioned by 
name in the Survey. In a collection of charters relating to Barkis- 
land? the earliest is a gift by Henry de Gretland to Roger son of 
Assolf de Barkisland of half a bovate of land in the vill of Barkis- 
land at a yearly rent of 2s.; as the first witness was John de Plaiz, 
the earl’s steward, the date is c. 1205-1218.° 


The church of Halifax,t to which the following letter refers, 
was among the gifts to Lewes priory included in the third earl’s 
charter in 1147 (no. 34). 


1 For the doubtful } car. see the introduction to the Rastrick section. 

2 Abstracts are pd. in Yorks. Deeds, i, nos. 25-56. A note of a charter 
relating to Stansfield is given at no. 146 below. 

3 See Chapter V. 

+ For its early history see the paper by the late Mr. John Lister in 
Halifax Ant. Soc., 1904-5, pp. 157-66, where the letter is noticed. For 
modifications concerning John Talvas as a 12th cent. rector (though the 
documentary evidence for him is obscure) see Vie 7 BERRY ES 


202 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


144, Letter of Hubert Walter thanking the prior and convent of Lewes 
for their grant to him of the church of Halifax, from which he 
proposed to give them a pension of 3 marks of silver yearly. 

[c. 1170-86] 
PLATE XXV 
Original, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 14266. 


Venerabilibus patribus suis in Christo et karissimis aduocatis 
suis priori et conuentui de Lewes . suus Hubfertus] Walteri salutem et 
debitam cum obsequio reuerentiam. Gratias ago multiplices prudenti 
et pure liberalitati uestre . et eo gratantius . quia nullis interuenientibus 
perambulis susurronibus . mei meministis . et manum munificentie 
uestre mihi porrexistis. Super ecclesia inquam de Haliflex’ quam eque 
ignotam ut ignoranti . ex inprouiso mihi concessistis. Huius ergo bene- 
ficii memor perpetuam beneficii uestri perpetuare uolens memoriam . pio 
prudentum consilio . constituo me daturum ecclesie uestre de Lewes de 
prefata ecclesia . iij. marcas argenti . nomine pensionis singulis annis. 
Cum autem coplam maioris auctoritatis mihi Deus concesserit . omni- 
modam curam adibebo . ut hec uobis pensio confirmetur. De fidelitate 
autem que in rei ueritate a quolibet benemerito et plene remunerato 
ecclesie uestre . uobis debetur . id fixum respondeo . quia cum plena 
mihi facultas mei concedetur . ad ecclesiam uestram accedam . et quo 
citius eo melius . fidelem uobis cautionem exponam . vel si nec sic res 
procedere possit . cum uestri d[omi]ne prior . uel alicuius uestrum cui 
uices uestras commiseritis in hoc articulo . copiam habuero . plenam 
fidei securitatem ad nutum uestrum uobis et ecclesie uestre exibebo. 
Super clerico autem illo cui cartam uestram dudum concesseratis super 
prefata ecclesia . affectum uestrum cum effectu Deo cooperante uide- 
bitis . et tam piam quam plenam miserationem super eum . de merito 
uite sue plusquam debitam . in me cognoscetis. Valeant in eternum 
domini mei. 


Shit for seal; tag missing. 


Endorsed in a \2th cent. hand: De Halifax . xj. with insertion in a 
later hand: de . 1. marcis annue pensionis de ecclesia. 


It is probable that this letter was written by Hubert Walter some years 
before he became dean of York in 1186. 


(vil) HARTSHEAD-CUM-CLIFTON 


In 1086 Ilbert de Lascy held 2 carucates in Hartshead and 7 
carucates in Clifton,’ both in the parish of Dewsbury. These places 
passed from the honour of Pontefract to the manor of Wakefield. 
The church of Dewsbury and the chapel of Hartshead were among 
the gifts to Lewes priory included in the third earl’s charter in 
1147 (no. 34). But the priory did not retain possession of the 
chapel or church of Hartshead ; and a fine of 1205-6 shows that the 
advowson was in lay hands, it being recognized that William de 
Radcliffe (Radecliva) should hold 2 carucates there, together with 


1 The Summary gives 12 car. 


PLATE XXV 


FVHI ‘ON 


‘ut $b Aq FQ 2215 


4 


taj 


par ¥g Cwowae | ueayr coe eo on - : 
aden oe va, Mond, AL 
aa voy 5 5 vid igect Dap sanrbon Bb j e Sie wii x: ae Fis 

_@ bangs bapsdis Gomadys msn 2 Ms Gonsoe iy 729 4 wr Sims 

s4 Pee eg oey Fig. oreo oC aes | a faring, 
eae Spee vido . oa ak yo yu i <a Her WAGs nan ee Abvatinan( if 

agoe8 Ws : sof ay a) Gs 4 joss + 11D baths nied won| sf ~*~ 
as ( Py ; wea aweuve | ost eee grt 09 oe var a A bh Ms nape 
--%9 ¢ pans frag Ae vsoyh fio eal winstlel go 7s on — po HY tora gy rad 
oe 441992 Bee ie \ ma 

Awa | dawyonh v Ve ctl sahuss fo aad Aa Je “gavel ef af ee as A ae aaijes 
Re fe govt ig pal er YN Ee 
 Fatilie akics rae | 
ASAT 5 2 apg inare am orale sone samageeld orf sven uae af i vars 

\ st eis aiparky owas Bee S{lr6 cM A Ae; - vigubs ot oe oo be cat ot 

ul Ve ~ys Ws sn Ary Muy SUMO Wo tbh a de as 

ub oat 4 Sie 2- Arata es $n tus » suring Sgn Sy ¢ mers af 


ae URIS oats asym a om i _— 89“ yiawa ys neg = Giak 
Zee ey aN bia Ses Anasongy (oe meee rs sitenlly ey - i ee yg sa 


. te Ea o< yr 


HARTSHEAD-CUM-CLIFTON 203 


the advowson, of Thomas de Horbury.! The interest of William de 
Radcliffe in Hartshead is shown by his debt of 10 marks at Mich- 
aelmas 1200 for having an inquisition as to whether he gave 2 
carucates there to Nicholas de Quercu under compulsion of confine- 
ment (per districtionem prisone) while he was in prison.? He took 
his name from Radcliffe, co. Lancaster, and died before 1212, 
leaving a widow Eugenia, and being succeeded by his son Adam 
who was living in 1246.3 In 1316 the lord of Hartshead was Richard 
de Radcliffe.* 

The family of Fleming, which held Wath-upon-Dearne of 
the honour of Skipton,> acquired an interest in Clifton. Among 
the holdings of Sir William le Fleming at his death in 1307 was the 
manor of Clifton, which he held of earl de Warenne by fealty and 
suit at the court of Wakefield every three weeks and a rent of 20s.° 


145. Confirmation by Reiner Fleming, son of William Fleming, to 
Kirklees priory of the place in which they dwelt, namely Kirklees | 
and ‘Hednesley’, as the river Calder flowed to the old mill, and 
so by the road leading to the old mill to the brook of the stony 
Yee and so to ‘Blacheland’, and from ‘Blacheland’ to 
‘Wagestan’, and from ‘Wagestan’ by the boundary of Liversedge, 
Hartshead and Mirfield; and also of 12 acres of land. 

[? c. 1170-90] 


MS. Dodsworth cxviii, f. 169, from the original then (1618) penes 
Jo. Armitage, Esq. at Kirklees.7? Pd. in Mon. Ang., v, 739, 
from the same. 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Reinerus Flandrensis filius 
Willelmi Flandrensis salutem. Notum sit vobis omnibus quod ego 
Reinerus Flandrensis dedi concessi et hac presenti carta confirmavi in 
liberam et puram et perpetuam elemosinam Deo et sancte Marie et 
sanctimonialibus de Kutkales® locum in quo manent, scilicet Kuthe- 
layam® et Hednesleyam sicut aqua de Kelder vadit usque ad vetus 
molendinum et sic per viam que ducit usque ad vetus molendinum 
usque ad rivulum petrosi f . . . lannus et sic ad Blacheland et de 
Blachelan[d]a usque ad Wagestan et de Wagestan sic per divisam 
Liuerseg et Hertesheuet et Mirfeild, totum infra nominatos terminos 


1 See the terms of the fine in the introductory notes to the Horbury 
section below, where cases of 1226-27 and 1229-30 showing the interest of 
Eugenia (William’s widow) and Margery (evidently his dau.) and Richard 
son of Hugh de Hartshead, described as his grandson, are cited. 

2 Pipe Roll 2 John, p. 239. Payment was completed at Mich. 1205 
(ibid. 7 John, p. 177). Although the entries are on the Lancs. rolls and there 
is a Hartshead in co. Lancaster, the place can be identified, in view of the 
corroborative evidence, as Hartshead, par. Dewsbury. 

3 For a detailed account of the family see V.C.H. Lancs., v, 58. 

4 Feudal Aids, vi, 201. 

5 An account of this family is given in E.Y.C., vii, pp. 193 ef seq. 

6 Cal. Ing. p.m., iv, no. 424 ; Yorks. Ing., iv, no. 124. The details include 
the statement that from the manor there was no profit because it was in a 
poor country. 

7 It is not now among the muniments at Kirklees. 

8 Kutbales, M.A. 

9 Kuthelagam, 1b. 


204 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


in terris et in aquis in pascuis et in pratis et in silvis et in planis; et 
preter hec duodecim acras terre libere et quiete tenendas de me et 
heredibus meis, pro anima patris mei et predecessorum meorum pro 
salute mea et amicorum meorum. Hujus donationis et confirmacionis 
testes sunt: Anfridus et Elyas sacerdotes, Walterus Flandrensis, Adam 
filius Ormi, Suenus de Holand, Robertus de Lacy, Henricus filius1 
Dolfini et Robertus frater ejus, Helias de Wiuelai, Johannes de Pen- 
ingest{un] et Wy[illelm]us frater ejus, W[illelm]us de Wambwelle, 
Nicolas filius Alani [de] Wirtleia, Reinerus Malet, et alii plures.? 


The grantor succeeded his father as a tenant of the honour of Skipton 
in Wath-upon-Dearne before 1166, and died in the period 1205-18.3 This 
charter cannot be regarded as the foundation charter of Kirklees, being a 
confirmation of the site already occupied. Moreover, the design of the priory 
‘seal suggests that it was made early in the twelfth century,* and that the 
priory was therefore in existence long before this charter was issued. The 
date of the charter is difficult to determine in view of the long period covered 
by many of the witnesses.> Swain de Hoyland occurs in 1154-59; Henry son 
of Dolfin in 1155-71 ;7 and with Adam son of Orm c. 1150-1157 ;8 whereas 
the latter? and Henry and Robert sons of Dolfin were all living in 1209.1° A 
date in the period c. 1170-90 seems probable.1! 


Mr. Chadwick in his history of the priory! suggested that ‘Wagestan,’ 
meaning the stone by the way, is the Anglian cross known as Walton Cross,3 
near Hartshead Church. ‘Hednesley’ has not been identified, but there is 
a reference to the priory’s ‘mill in Heton [Kirkheaton] in Hednesley’ in a 
deed of 1241,!* and the ford of [?] Hedinslaie occurs in an earlier Kirkheaton 
charter.) 

The charter was. confirmed by William sixth earl de Warenne, 1202- 
c. 1210 (no. 89). In 1218-19 the prioress complained that contrary to its terms 


1 fitz, MS: 

2 The spelling of witnesses’ names is taken from MS. and not from M.A. 

SEY .C., Vail, lous 

4 Archaeologia, \xxviii, 23. 

° Several occur as witnesses to charters of the Lascy fee in E.Y.C., 
vol. iii. 

6 ITbid., no. 1665. 

7 [bid., nos. 1678, 1753. 

S Tbidi vi, nowi58: 

° Adam son of Orm occurs in many charters of dates 1170-1200 in 
BEY Ci iNvOL Au: 

a9 5 oY CaMil: Paco 

11 The identity of the sixth witness is uncertain. If he was Robert son 
of Henry de Lascy, lord of Pontefract, his place in the list of witnesses suggests 
that it must have been earlier than his father’s death in 1177. 

12 Y.A.J., xvi, 319”. He also suggested that the name ‘Blachelana’ 
[Blacheland in Dodsworth MS] is represented by the modern Bleak Low, the 
name of a group of houses. 

13 See W. G. Collingwood’s paper in Y.A.J., xxiii, pp. 250-4, with 
illustrations. 

1* Kirklees Muniments, no. 30. The spelling Hednesley, as also Kyrkeley, 
is clear in Henry III’s confirmation charter, an original (ibid., no. 29 ; fac- 
simile in Y.A.J., xvi, 322-3). 

13 Fountains Chartulary, p. 366, Kirklees and Kirkheaton lie on op- 
posite sides of the Calder. 


HARTSHEAD-CUM-CLIFTON 205 


the grantor’s son William le Fleming had intruded within her boundaries 
and done damage, for which he had to pay 10 marks.? 

Besides the earl’s confirmation Mr. Chadwick gave the texts with 
facsimiles of two other early charters from the Kirklees muniments ;? one 
being a gift by John le Fleming? to the priory of a female villein for 3s. 6d. 
of silver ; and the other a confirmation charter of king Henry III in 1236.* 


(viii) HOLDSWORTH 


Holdsworth lies in Ovenden, par. Halifax. The evidence 
of charter no. 147 shows that it was within the bounds of Sowerby- 
shire. Neither Holdsworth nor Ovenden are mentioned by name 
in the Domesday survey. 


146. Gift by John son of Assolf to the cell of Woodkirk and the 
canons of Nostell serving God and St. Mary there, of an acre of 
land in Holdsworth which Agnes daughter of Orm de Holds- 
worth had given him to end their quarrel, and which Gamel had 
held, together with pasture for cows, sheep, goats and pigs. 

[late 12th cent.] 
MS. Dodsworth viii, f. 199V, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 

Sciant tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Johannes filius 
Essolui pro salute anime mee et parentum meorum et antecessorum dedi 
et concessi et hac mea karta confirmavi Deo et sancte Marie de Wudekirke 
et canonicis de sancto Oswaldo ibidem Deo et sancte Marie servientibus, 
in liberam et puram et perpetuam elemosinam, unam acram terre in 
Aldewurthe® quam Agnes filia Orm de predicta Haldewrtha® dedit 
mihi et concessit pro pace et concordia de querela que erat inter nos, 
scilicet illam acram quam Gamellus tenuit cum pastura in eadem villa, 
scilicet ad quadraginta vaccas et ad exitus earum usque in tertium 
annum et ad [centum oves]® et ad sexaginta capras et ad totidem porcos 
et communitatem in omnibus aysiamentis ejusdem ville in bosco et 
plano in pratis et pasturis. Et ut hec mea elemosina sit libera et quieta 
sicut aliqua elemosina liberius et quietius dari potest ego et heredes mei 
gulajrantizabimus eis predictam terram. His testibus, Jordano filio 
Essolui de Tang’, Sanson de Wridlesford’, Reginaldo de Sotil, Enneo 
decano, Eustachio, Willelmo, Michele, Johanne, Laurentio filiis 
Johannis Essolfi, et multis aliis. 7 


Seal’: a bird with wings displayed, head turned to dexter; I< SIGILL’: 
IOHANNIS : FIL’ : ESSOLVI : 


1 Rolls of the Justices in Eyve for Yorks., Selden Soc. vol. lvi, no. 412. 

2 A catalogue of this large collection was privately pd. for the late 
Sir George Armytage in 1900 ; cited here as Kirklees M uniments. These two 
charters are nos. 6, 29. 

3 Brother and successor of William son of Reiner (E.Y.C., vii, 198). 

4 This confirms inter alia the charter of Reiner le Fleming and also a 
gift by Adam son of Peter (who died in 1185) of 3 bovates in Cullingworth 
[par. Bingley]. 

5 A.S. thorn in these names. 

6 Left blank in MS; inserted from no. 149. 

7 Drawn by Dodsworth. 


206 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Charters relating to the cell of Woodkirk have been printed above at 
nos. 31, 134. 

The grantor was a brother of Jordan son of Assolf (ancestor of the Thorn- 
hill family) and of Richard son of Assolf (ancestor of the Tong family). 
Jordan, who witnessed this charter as Jordan son of Assolf de Tang, and his 
brother Richard were parties to a fine on 25 Jan. 1194-5.2 John their brother 
is mentioned in the Pipe Rolls from 1168 onwards.3 He occurs in 1172-81 
and in 1189 ;* Eustace his son in 1172-81,5 and William his son in 1180-85 ;6 
these being the first two of his sons who witnessed the present charter. He 
was a benefactor of Monk Bretton priory, giving land in Wentworth which he 
held of Adam son of Swain as an under-tenancy of the honour of Skipton ;7 
and he gave 5 bovates of land in Stansfield [par. Halifax] to Roger son- of 
Warin and Amabel his daughter in frank-marriage, rendering 15d. yearly.® 

A note on Samson de Wridlesford, the second witness, who was living 
late in the twelfth and early in the thirteenth century, is given at no. 139; 
and Reginald de Soothill occurs in the period 1194-1211 (no. 132 note). 


147. Gift by John son of Assolf de Holdsworth to the cell of Woodkirk 
of half a bovate of land in the vill of Holdsworth, which Assolf 
his father had purchased from Agnes daughter of Orm de 
Holdsworth; doing the forinsec service to the lords of the fee 
belonging to so much land in Sowerbyshire, and paying 3d. at 
Whitsuntide, $d. at Michaelmas, and 3d. at the Purification. 

[?c. 1190-1210] 


MS. Dodsworth viii, f. 200, from the original in St. Mary’s Tower, 
York. 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis ad quos presens scriptum 
pervenerit Johannes filius Assolui de Haldeuurthe salutem in Domino. 
Noverit universitas vestra me pro salute anime mee et uxoris mee et 
antecessorum et successorum meorum dedisse concessisse et hac 
presenti carta mea confirmasse Deo et beate Marie de Wdekirke et 
canonicis de sancto Osuualdo ibidem Deo et beate Marie servientibus, 
in liberam et perpetuam elemosinam, dimidiam bovatam terre in villa 
de Haldewurth cum pertinentiis et aisiamentis suis, illam scilicet quam 
pater meus Assoluus emit de Agnete filia? Ormi de Haldewrth, tenen- 
dam et habendam in liberam et perpetuam elemosinam quiete pacifice 


1 For an account of these three brothers whom he considered to have 
been sons of Assolf by a second or third wife and half-brothers of Peter son 
of Assolf, ancestor of the Birkins, see W. Paley Baildon, Baildon and the 
Baildons, ii, pp. 22 et seg. His reference for John as a witness ante 1159 must 
be amended, for the charter cited (pd. in E.Y.C., iii, no. 1680) was a con- 
firmation issued in 1172-81 and not the original gift ante 1159 ; but see below 
for the latter date. 

448.) .C., di, ie, 1967: 

3 Baildon, op. cit., p. 22. 

* E.Y.C.., iii, nos. 1680, 1603. 

> Ibid., no. 1679. 

6 Ibid., nos. 1757, 1760 ; earlier than no. 1761, which is not later than 
1185, as Adam son of Peter witnessed. 

7 Ibid., vii, nos. 131-2, showing that he had held the land in the life- 
time of Adam son of Swain (who died in 1159). 

8 MS. Dodsworth cxvii, f. 156 ; an abbreviated text ; testibus, Jordano 
filio Essolf, Thoma fratre ejus, Eustachio filio meo. 9 filie, MS. 


HOLDSWORTH 207 


integre et honorifice cum omnibus pertinentiis et libertatibus infra 
villam predictam et extra in boscis in planis in viis et semitis et in 
pasturis dicte terre pertinentibus; faciendo forinsecum servitium 
dominis feodi quod pertinet ad tantam terram in Sourebischire, solvendo 
unum obulum ad Pentecosten et unum obulum ad festum sancti 
Michaelis et unum obulum ad festum Purificationis pro omni servitio 
sive exactione. Ego vero Johannes et heredes mei totam dictam dimi- 
diam bovatam terre cum omnibus pertinentiis suis dictis canonicis 
contra omnes homines warentizabimus in perpetuum. His testibus, 
domino Johanne de Tilly, domino Johanne de Sothil, Johanne . . 1 de 
Erdislaue, Thoma filio Roberti de eadem, Adam fratre ejus, Ranulfo 
de Duninglaue, David fratre ejus, Adam de Toftecliue, Petro filio 
Thome de Ekinton, et aliis. 


It is difficult to decide whether the grantor of the present charter and the 
next was the same man as John son of Assolf, the grantor of no. 146. 

The latter was probably identical with John son of Assolf de Herdewic 
[Hardwick] and possibly with John de Huurum [Owram] ;* and there seems 
no reason why he was not also known as John son of Assolf de Haldewrthe 
in virtue of his possession of land there. On the other hand a chronological 
difficulty arises, as if Agnes daughter of Orm de Haldewrth made the sale 
to the well-known Assolf it must have been made in the middle of the 
twelfth century, and she was living many years beyond that (no. 149). In 
the absence of further evidence the identification must remain doubtful. 

John de Tilly, the first witness to the present charter, occurs in 1190- 
1210.3 In view of the terms of the warranty clause the charter was probably 
not issued until after the turn of the century ; cf. no. 133, witnessed by the 
second and sixth witnesses. 


148. Gift by John son of Assolf de Holdsworth to Elias de Rishworth 
and his heirs by Eve, the grantor’s daughter, of a moiety of all 
his land in the territory of Holdsworth, paying 12d. yearly for all 
service, saving the service of earl de Warenne. John would not 
alienate the remainder of his land from Elias or his heirs by Eve; 
if Elias had no heirs by Eve and survived, he should have for life 
the moiety of John’s land given him originally, with reversion 
after his death to John or his heirs or assigns. _[? late 12th cent.] 


MS. Dodsworth viii, f. 200, from the original in St. Mary’s Tower, 
York. 


Sciant omnes tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Johannes 
filius Assolui de Haldewrth dedi et concessi et hac presenti carta mea 
confirmavi Helie de Rissewrth et heredibus quos habuerit de Eua 
filia mea medietatem totius terre mee in territorio de Haldewrth cum 
omnibus pertinentiis suis infra villam et extra sine retenemento, sol- 
vendo enim mihi duodecim denarios, scilicet sex denarios ad Pente- 
costen et sex denarios ad festum sancti Martini, pro omni servitio et 
demanda salvo servitio domini comitis Warennie; preterea residuum 


80. 
2 Baildon, op. cit., pp. 22-3. 
ey .G., ui, nov 1618; 


208 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


autem terre mee quam teneo non alienabo ab illo nec heredibus quos 
habuerit de Eua filia mea. Si vero non habuerit heredes de Eua filia 
mea et supervixerit habebit medietatem terre mee quam dedi ei in 
principio cum pertinentiis suis per totam vitam suam et post decessum 
ejus redibit dicta terra cum pertinentiis soluta et quieta de predicto 
H[elia] ad me vel heredes meos vel assignatos meos in perpetuum. In 
hujus autem rei testimonium huic scripto sigillum meum apposui. 
Hiis testibus, Henrico et Elia capellanis de Halifax, Maynardo tunc 
ballivo de Sorbi et Helia fratre ejus de Ressewrth,...... 1, et multis 
allis. 


149. Gift by Agnes daughter of Orm de Holdsworth to the cell of 
Woodkirk of an acre of land in Holdsworth which Haisolimus 
had held, together with pasture for cows, sheep, goats and pigs. 

[late 12th cent.] 
MS. Dodsworth viii, f. 200, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 

Sciant tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Agnes filia Ormi de 
Haldwrthe’, pro salute anime mee et parentum meorum et anteces- 
sorum, dedi et concessi et hac mea carta confirmavi Deo et sancte Marie 
de Wdekirke et canonicis de sancto Oswaldo ibidem Deo et sancte 
Marie servientibus, in liberam et puram et perpetuam elemosinam unam 
acram terre in Haldewrthe?, illam videlicet quod Haisolimus: tenuit 
cum pastura in eadem villa, scilicet ad quadraginta vaccas et ad exitus 
earum usque in tertium annum et ad centum oves et ad sexaginta 
capras et ad totidem porcos et communitatem in omnibus aisiamentis 
ejusdem ville in bosco et in plano in pratis in pascuis et aliis. Ego 
volo ut hec mea elemosina sit libera et quieta sicut aliqua elemosina 
liberior et quietior esse solet. Et ego et heredes mei guarantizabimus 
eis predictas terras. Hiis testibus, Henrico de Tankerleya, Nicholao filio 
Haisolui de Erdeslau,..... 3 de Erdeslau, Galfrido Kardinal, Fulcone 
fratre ejus, Reginaldo filio Helie de Sothil, Roberto filio Rogeri, 
Roberto Bundi, et pluribus aliis. 


Of the witnesses Henry de Tankersley and Geoffrey Kardinal occur 
together in 1188-1200.4 The terms of the charter are similar to those of 
no. 146, and they are probably contemporary in date. 


150. Gift by Ralph son and heir of Hugh son of Walter to the cell 
of Woodkirk of a quarter of a bovate of land in Holdsworth which 
he held of Robert de Horton; rendering yearly to the latter and 
his heirs 12d. at Whitsuntide. [c. 1210-1225] 

MS. Dodsworth viii, f. 199V, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 
Sciant omnes presentes et futuri quod ego Radulfus filius et 
heres Hugonis filii Walteri pro salute animarum patris et matris mee 
A ae. 
2 A.S. thorn. 


3 Blank in MS. 
‘WEY Gy, tap ies foes 


HOLDSWORTH 209 


et omnium amicorum meorum dedi et concessi et hac presenti carta 
mea confirmavi Deo et sancte Marie de Wudekyrce et canonicis de 
sancto Oswaldo ibidem Deo et sancte Marie servientibus quartam 
partem unius bovate terre in villa de Haldewrthe cum omnibus perti- 
nentiis et aisiamentis et libertatibus dicte terre pertinentibus, quam 
scilicet terram ego tenui de Roberto de Hortona; tenendam et habendam 
predictis canonicis in liberam et perpetuam elemosinam, reddendo inde 
annuatim predicto Roberto de Horton’ et heredibus suis duodecim 
denarios ad Pentecosten pro omni servitio seculari et demanda. Ego 
vero Radulfus et heredes mei warantizabimus istam donacionem contra 
omnes homines imperpetuum. Hiis testibus, Matheo de Sepeleia tunc 
seneschallo comitis Warrennie, Henrico persona de Deusburc, Johanne 
de Thorenhil, Johanne..... 1, Johanne de Heton, Roberto de Horton, 
Johanne de Lewintorp, Michaele de Sothil, Johanne de Haldewrth, 
Henrico tunc senescaldo de Saurebisire, Ricardo Cardinel, Ricardo de 
Haldewrth, et multis aliis. 


The period assigned conforms with that of the tenure of the office of 
steward by Matthew de Shepley, who was steward in 1218-19 ; see Chapter V. 
1225 is the latest date for the charter because in that year John de 
Dewsbury and Odo de Richmond were joint rectors of Dewsbury ;? and 
presumably they were later than Henry, an unrecorded rector. 

The mention of Robert de Horton as the grantor’s immediate lord 
invites the suspicion that a charter by which Thomas son of Hugh de Horton 
gave to the cell of Woodkirk half a bovate of land in Aldewrtha3 refers to 
Holdsworth and not to Haworth, though it contains no evidence that the 
land lay in Sowerbyshire, as is clear in no. 147 and in the present one in view 
of its being witnessed by the steward of that district in addition to the 
earl’s chief steward. 


(ix) HORBURY AND MIDDLE SHITLINGTON 


In 1086 2 carucates 7 bovates in Horbury and 6 bovates in 
Shitlington were soke of the manor of Wakefield ; and Ibert de 
Lascy appears to have held the remainder of the 3 carucates in 
Shitlington, which lies to the east of Flockton where he held two 
manors assessed at 3 carucates. The 6 bovates, soke of the manor 
of Wakefield, can certainly be assigned to Middle Shitlington, the 
modern Middlestown, a member of the manorial constabulary of 
Horbury.4 The portion of Shitlington belonging to the honour of 
Pontefract included Over and Nether Shitlington, the modern 
Overton and Netherton; and possibly the 2 carucates 2 bovates 
included a carucate in Midgley in the south of the township, which 
was a member of that honour.> Adam son of Peter, the ancestor of 
the Birkin family and a tenant of the honour of Pontefract, held a 


1 [?]Sothil in pencil, in a contemporary hand, probably Dodsworth’s. 

SV eA?) 2s, 393: 

3 E.Y.C., iii, 1795; date assigned 1188-1200. This is included in the 
charters of the Lascy fee and assigned to Haworth. 

+ Nomina Villarum, Wakefield (1816), p. 23. 

5 E.Y.C., iii, no. 1730, where the bovate in Midgley given by Adam son 
of Peter to Pontefract priory is described as an eighth part of it. 


210 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


knight’s fee of Henry de Lascy in 1166 ; this appears to have con- 
sisted of land in Fairburn, Shipley and elsewhere.! His interest in 
Shitlington and Flockton was inherited from his mother Emma de 
Lascelles,? who was the donor to Selby abbey of her mill in Shit- 
lington,®? and to Rievaulx abbey of 2 carucates in Shitlington and 
Flockton.* Adam himself gave to Rievaulx 30 acres in Shitlington, 
20 acres of which lay in the wood called Little Midgley,® and land 
for building a grange in Shitlington,® besides land in the place 
called Blakeker for the site of iron smithies, iron ore in his part 
of Shitlington and Flockton, and land between Little Midgley and 
Emley brook, with lcence to make a mill in his land above the 
stream running by Blakeker.” He also gave to Pontefract priory 
a bovate of land in Midgley.§ It seems clear that his interest in 
Shitlington did not include Over Shitlington, for that manor was 
given to his younger son Roger de Birkin in 1189-90 by Roger son 
of Sir Richard Touche in marriage with the latter’s daughter Maud.?® 
The inheritance of Adam son of Peter, who died in 1184-85,1° 
descended eventually to the family of Everingham ;" and among 
the holdings of Sir Robert de Everingham, apparently of the 
honour of Pontefract, at his death in 1287, were 10 bovates of 
land in Shitlington and half a carucate in Midgley (Miggeley)% In 
1302-03 his son Adam de Everingham held a carucate in Shitlington 
and half a carucate in Flockton.¥ 


iE Y Gs, i, nO, L508 andsp? Jos. 

2 Farrer points out the interest of the fact that the Englishman Peter 
son of Assulf married a lady clearly of Norman blood. 

3 Ibid., no. 1721, date assigned 1145-60. The mill was confirmed to 
Selby by Adam de Preston IV, whose family seems to have been connected 
with that of Birkin (ibid., p. 358 ; and cf. p. 316). The text of that charter 
(middle 13th cent.) is pd. in Selby Coucher Book, no. 1278. 

a Oi GOR ibe len Teg 

PT b1d:,. On AF ae: 

6 -Ibid., BO» A727; 

7 Ibid., no. 1728; issued with his mother’s consent. Farrer identified 
Blakeker as Blacker in Upper Hoyland, realizing, however, that the ore 
would have to be brought a considerable distance from Shitlington and 
Flockton to a smithy there. But it is far more likely that it was Blacker in 
Criggleston, which adjoins Shitlington on the east. References to this place 
are given in Wakefield Court Rolls, ii, 136; ii, 110: and Wakefield Manor 
Book, 1709, p. 69 ; and it is entered in Goodall, Place-names of South-West 
Yorkshire, p. 76. The name is preserved in the present Blacker Hall in 
Criggleston, now a farm-house, near a tributary of the Calder, which may 
well be the stream mentioned in the charter. For this Blacker Hall and the 
Blacker family see Mr. J. W. Walker’s Wakefield, 1st ed., p. 525. 

8 EL Y.C., ui, 20,1730. 

9 Ibid., no. 1748. 

10 Thid.: pe3ge7; 

11 See above under West Ardsley. 

12 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 638 ; Yorks. Ingq., ii, no. 52. In both of these the 
place is identified as Midgley near Halifax, which was a member of the 
manor of Wakefield : but it is almost certainly Midgley in Shitlington, a 
member of the honour of Pontefract. It is tempting to suppose that Sir John 
de Meus, his tenant there, was the representative of Sir John de Melsa who 
married Amice de Everingham (see above under West Ardsley). 

13 Feudal Atds, vi, pp. 129-30. 


HORBURY AND MIDDLE SHITLINGTON yA a 


The land in Middle Shitlington, soke of the manor of Wake- 
field, was held wholly or in part by the family of Horbury. The 
ancestor of this family! was Saxe, who is named in a charter of 
William second earl de Warenne, 1118-30, as his tenant in | Middle] 
Shitlington (no. 11). As Saxi de Horbiri he witnessed a charter of. 
Swain son of Alric, 1120-30.2, He was succeeded by Matthew his 
son who in the period 1155-58 was granted land in Shitlington by 
Adam, prior of Pontefract, as Saxi his father had held it 1or- 6s: 
yearly. Charters issued by earl Hamelin to Matthew de Horbury, 
giving him forest land near Horbury and also 6 bovates of land in 
Dewsbury, have been printed above (nos. 68-9). A charter issued by 
Matthew son of Saxi to Rievaulx abbey shows that he held land in 
Blacker, Flockton and Shitlington.* Its terms, granting facilities 
for the abbey’s iron-works, closely correspond with that of Adam 
son of Peter already mentioned, except that the land near Little 
Midgley is not. included ; and prove that similar interests in the 
three places were held by Adam son of Peter and Matthew de 
Horbury. The date of these charters is not later than 1157, as the 
gifts were confirmed with others by Henry II in a charter witnessed 
by Eustace son of John, who was slain in that year.’ Disputes 
between the two abbeys of Byland and Rievaulx relating to their 
iron-works in Emley and Shitlington respectively were composed 
by an agreement which was renewed several years later in 1170, 
materials for the former being restricted to six vills and their woods, 
namely Emley, [West] Bretton, Shitlington Philippi,® Denby, 
Briestwistle and Thornhill, and materials for the latter to three 
vills, namely the two Shitlingtons of the fee of Adam son of Peter 
and Matthew son of Saxi, Flockton and ‘Threpwda.’’ 

Matthew de Horbury was living in 1188, as with Thomas his 
son he occurs ina charter to which the date 1188-90 can be assigned;§ 
and he was evidently dead by 1196 (no. 151). Thomas de Horbury 
was his eldest son, and he had other sons Jordan (nos. 153-4), Adam, 
William, Eustace and John.? ~ 

Besides Matthew, Saxe had a son Philip; and probably 
Adam de Horbury who witnessed a Shitlington charter, 1155-58,1° 
was a third. 

With regard to the former, as Philip son of Saxi, he witnessed 
a charter of his brother Matthew to Rievaulx abbey, 1155-70;4 
and is mentioned in a confirmation of pope Alexander III thereto 


1 Notes by the present writer on the early generations of the family are 
pd. in Y.A.J., xxvi, pp. 334-44, with a chart ped. on p. 345. 

enn. Y.C., Ui, no. 1665. 

3 [bid., no. 1752 ; Matthew’s wife Edith, then alive, being mentioned. 

4 Tbid., no. 1753. For Blacker see the note above. 

5 Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 212. 

6 This portion of Shitlington, probably taking its name from Philip 
younger son of Saxe, has not been identified. 

7 Tbid., no. 243 ; noticed in E.Y.C., iii, p. 380. 

Bee C., ii, no. 1787, 

9 For details relating to them see Y.A.J., xxvi, pp. 341-2. 

mE. Y.C., ili, WO. 1752. 

11 Tbid., no. 1753. 


212 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


as a co-benefactor with his brother Matthew of land in Shitlington 
and Flockton.! His son Adam, known as Adam de Shitlington and 
Adam son of Philip witnessed a charter in 1199? and several others 
in the period c. 1180-1212.3 In 1208 he recognized by fine, follow- 
ing an assize of mort d’ancestor, the right of William del Fin to 
half a bovate in Shitlington, to hold of him and his heirs by the 
free service of 3s. yearly.4. He had issue two daughters : Idoine 
who, c. 1232-38, granted to Ralph de Horbury her right ina moiety 
of the vill of Saltonstall and land in Ossett and Flockton and ia 
moiety of the mill of Shitlington; and another daughter who married 
Adam de Kirkby, by whom she had a son Ingram who released to 
his aunt Idoine his right in half a carucate in Shitlington and-a 
moiety of the mill there and land in Flockton and Saltonstall, 
receiving in exchange land in Ossett and Flockton.° 

Adam de Horbury, probably a third son of Saxe, had two 
sons William and Thomas,® who can be identified as witnessing 
nos. 152-3 and 155 below, and also no. 158 in 1198. Although the 
point is not susceptible of proof, it is likely that the first of them 
was the William de Horbury who by marriage acquired a moiety 
of a third of the holdings of Henry de Eland the elder, and was 
succeeded by his son Thomas between 1202 and 1212.7 

Thomas de Horbury, eldest son of Matthew, made two 
agreements, one being in 1195-96, with Roger de Birkin relating 
to Shitlington (nos. 151-2). In 1199, in the presence of the itiner- 
ant justices, he confirmed to Rievaulx abbey his father’s gifts of 
land in Blacker and iron ore and other facilities in Flockton and 
Shitlington ; and received on the same occasion a quitclaim from 
the abbot of any claim to his houses on the west side of Blacker and 
to his park. He received a quitclaim from Jordan his brother of 
land claimed in the court of earl de Warenne, namely 14 carucates 
in Horbury, 14 carucates in Shitlington and 2 bovates in Saltonstall 
(no. 153). He was given land in Little Midgley by Adam son of 
Hervey de Flockton (no. 155) ; and half a carucate in Bilham by 
Henry son of John de Wortley (no. 108). 

In Flockton he received a gift and quitclaim from Randulf 
de Neufmarché of 14 carucates which had formed the marriage 
portion of Cecily, the latter’s grandmother.® On 12 Feb. 1205-6 he 
was a party to a fine with William de Radecliva, by which he 

1 Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 252; and see ibid., no. 111 (E.Y.C., vi, no. 158). 

AS EY Ci NOs L soo: 

3 e.g. ibid., nos. 1688, 1756-7, 1760, 1810, 1815, 1817 ; and nos. 69, 151 
154-5, 158, in the present volume. 

4 Yorks. Fines, John, p. 128. 

5 MS. Dodsworth I1xii, f. 10. 

6 South Yorkshire, ii, 179; E.Y.C., iii, no. 1787. 

7 See the note to no. 135, and for further details of William and his son 
Thomas Y.A.J., xxvi, 337. This Thomas was still alive in 1242-43 (Bk. of 
Fees, p. 1103). 

8°E.Y.C., ii, NOS. 1 7adeo. 

9 Tbid., no. 1756, with note showing the descent from Cecily, wife of 
Ranulf son of Wilard, to Randulf; and cf. the note on this branch of the 


Neufmarché family in Chapter III, §1. The land was a moiety of the 3 car. 
in Flockton in 1086. 


HORBURY AND MIDDLE SHITLINGTON 213 


recognized 2 carucates in Hartshead with the advowson of the 
church as the right of William, to hold to the latter of him and his 
heirs at a yearly rent of 3s. and doing the forinsec service. He was 
steward of William sixth earl de Warenne, probably succeeding 
William de Livet c. 1202-1205, and being succeeded by John de 
Plaiz not later than 1210; and he appears to have died, being 
succeeded by his son Ralph, not later than 1218 (no. 156). 


Besides his elder son Ralph he also had a son John, who 
witnessed a charter as Sir John de Horbury of Shitlington, knight, 
brother of Sir Ralph ;3 and a daughter Josiana to whom he gave 
land in Bilham, and who appears to have married Henry de la 
Chambre (no. 109 and note). 

Sir Ralph de Horbury was steward to John earl de Warenne, 
certainly from 1248 to 1251.4. On 27 July 1247 he was exempted 
for life from being put on assizes, juries or recognitions.® His even- 
tual heirs, after the failure of issue of his two sons, were his daugh- 
ter Eglantine or Rosamund, who married Reiner le Fleming of 
Wath-upon-Dearne, and another daughter who married Nicholas 
de Wortley.® 

It is not proposed to attempt a detailed account of the family 
and of its possessions, held of various tenancies in chief, after the 
first quarter of the thirteenth century. But one or two points 
concerning Sir John de Horbury, Sir Ralph’s elder son, can be 
noticed. He is mentioned in an original charter by which Peter, 
‘king of the heralds on this side Trent from the north’ acknowledged 
receipt from Sir John son of Sir Ralph de Horbiria of 22 marks of 
silver in which Sir John was bound to him, 18 March 1276.’ He 
can be identified’ as the John de Horbury who married Elizabeth 
one of the daughters of Baldwin Wake by his wife Ela, a sister of 
Simon son of William de Beauchamp of Bedford. In 1278 orders 
were issued to deliver their several purparties to John and Eliza- 
beth and other heirs of William de Beauchamp ; and they were 


1 Yorks. Fines, John, p. 98. In 1229-30 Ralph de Horbury was plaintiff 
against Richard son of Hugh and grandson of William de Radeclive to 
hold to the fine (Curia Regis Roll 104, m. 10, cited in Y.A./J., xxvi, 338). 
In 1226-27 Eugenia de Radeclive had successfully maintained her possession 
of part of 2 car. of land in Hartshead, wap. Morley, against Margery widow 
of Hugh de Hartshead and Richard his heir (Bracton’s Note Book, no. 1846). 

2 For details see Chapter V. ; 

3 South Yorkshire, ii, 239 ; and cf. the note to no. 134. 

‘See Chapter V. 

> Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1232-47, p. 505. 

6 E.Y.C., vii, p. 200 and the references there given. 

7 Harley Ch. 54 G. 44; fragment of Peter’s seal. This charter is cited as 
the earliest known reference to a king of arms by a territorial style in Eng- 
land in A. R. Wagner, Heralds and Heraldry in the Middle Ages, p. 39. 

8 The following references do not prove that this was John de Horbury 
son of Sir Ralph ; but it is unlikely that he was not. It is not always easy to 
distinguish between Sir John son of Sir Ralph and Sir John de Horbury ‘the 
coroner,’ as to whom see Y.A./., xxvi, 339, where it is seen that the coroner 
left a widow named Margaret, and was in a decrepit condition in 1279, dying 
between 1281 and 1291 ; that rules out the possibility of the coroner being the 
husband of Elizabeth Wake. 


214 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


named among the heirs of the barony of Bedford in 1295, when 
Elizabeth was aged thirty-four.t As holding a third of a knight’s 
fee of the honour of Bedford, being a ninth part of the barony of 
Beauchamp, he was named for military service against the Welsh 
in 1277 and 1282 ;2 and was summoned against the Scots in 1301.8 
On 22 March 1301-2 John earl de Warenne gave him, described as 
knight, his manors of Horbury and Southwood [in Ossett] and all 
the rent which he had of Sir John’s gift in Hartshead, to hold for 
life with reversion to the earl.* 


151. Agreement between Thomas son of Matthew de Horbury and 
Roger de Birkin by which Thomas granted to Roger, for the 
exchange of other lands that they had made, 80 oaks in their 
common wood of Shitlington, to be cut and removed between 
Michaelmas next after the election of Philip, bishop of Durham, 
and the following Michaelmas. [29 Dec. 1195-29 Sept. 1196] 

MS. Dodsworth I1xii, f. 9, from the evidences of Sir Francis Wortley ° 
in 1637, Newhall and Shitlington box, no. 2. 

Hec est convencio facta et presenti cyrograffo confirmata inter 
Thomam filium Mathei de Horeblfiri] et Rogerum de Birkin, videlicet 
quod predictus Thomas dimisit et concessit predicto Rogero, pro 
excambio de aliis terris quod fecerunt iiij** quercus de communi bosco 
illorum de Sitlingtona ad electionem predicti Rogeri, ita quod predictus 
Thomas nullam [b/ank] nec solucionem contra has i1ij** quercus capiet. 
Et sepedictus Rogerus habebit terminum ad sternendum et deponendum 
has quercus a festo sancti Michaelis proximo post electionem Philippi 
Dunolmensis episcopi usque ad festum sancti Michaelis proximum 
sequens. Hiis testibus, Reginaldo filio Elye, Ada filio Philippi, Johanne 
de Sandale, et aliis multis. 


According to Roger of Howden Philip of Poitou was elected bishop of 
Durham on 29 Dec. 1195.6 Roger de Birkin, younger son of Adam son of 
Peter, had acquired the manor of Over Shitlington by marriage in 1189-90 ; 
see the introductory notes above. 


152. Agreement between Thomas son of Matthew de Horbury and 
Roger [de Birkin] son of Adam son of Peter by which Roger 


1 Cal. Fine Rolls, 1272-1307, p. 99; Cal. Close Rolls, 1272-79, pp. 467, 
472 ; 1288-96, pp. 471-5, 508 ; Cal. Inq. p.m., iv, no. 290 ; and for Elizabeth’s 
father, Complete Peevage, new ed., ix, 376n. A ped. of the Beauchamp heirs 
is given by G. H. Fowler in Beds. Hist. Rec. Soc., vol. i, p. 25. One of 
Elizabeth’s sisters married John de Stonegrave, for whom see F.Y.C., vi, pp. 
120-1 ; and another married a Ralph Paynel as her second husband, for whom 
see ibid., p. 268n. 

2 Parl. Writs, i, pp. 203, 234, 237. 

3 Ibid., p. 353 ; in the list for Beds. and Bucks. In 1291 as John son of 
Ralph de Horbury he was among men of the northern counties summoned to 
the muster at Norham (ib7d., p. 256). 

4 MS. Dodsworth Ixii, f. 40V. 

5 He was descended from Nicholas de Wortley who married one of the 
daus. and eventual coheirs of Sir Ralph de Horbury (see above). 

6 Howden, iii, 308, 


HORBURY AND MIDDLE SHITLINGTON 215 


demised to Thomas for a term of two years all his land of 
Shitlington and Midgley, and 32 acres for a term of ten years. 
[c. 1196-1202] 


MS. Dodsworth Ixii, f. 17V, from the evidences of Sir Francis Wortley 
in 1637, Shitlington box, no. 35. 


Convencio inter Thomam de Horbiry filium Mathei et Rogerum 
filium Ade filii Petri, scilicet quod idem Rogerus dimisit predicto 
Thome totam terram suam de Sitligtona et Migeleia etc., tenend[am] ad 
finem duorum annorum. Propterea dimisit xxxij. acras que sunt inter 
essartum VIfi et essartum Franci, tenend[as] ad finem decem annorum 
etc. Testibus, Willelmo de Lyuet tunc seneschallo comitis, Helya de 
Whlfleia, Roberto filio Dolfin’, Humfr[ido] de Laceles, Ricardo filio 
Jurd[an]i, Germano de Thornhill, Henrico de Eland, Jurdano filio 
Mathei, Willelmo de Horebir’, Thoma fratre ejus, Alano de Crigleston, 
et aliis. 


-Thomas son of Matthew de Horbury succeeded his father between 1188 
and 1196 (see above). The first witness was earl Hamelin’s steward in 1198 
(no. 158). In view of Roger de Birkin’s interest the earliest possible date is 
1189 ; and it seems likely that this agreement was later than no. 151. The 
latest date is 1202 when Henry de Eland the elder was dead (note to no. 135); 
the seventh witness can be so identified, as he is evidently the same as Henry 
de Eland who witnessed no. 153 in a senior position to Hugh de Eland. 


153. Quitclaim by Jordan son of Matthew de Horbury to Thomas de 
Horbury his brother of all right in the land which he had claimed 
against him in the court of earl de Warenne by the king’s writ, 
namely 14 carucates of land in Horbury, 14 carucates in Shit- 
lington, and 2 bovates in Saltonstall [in Warley, par. Halifax], 
as land in which he had no right unless Thomas died without an 
heir by his wife, when the inheritance would fall to him. 

[c. 1196-1202] 


MS. Dodsworth lxii, f. 9, from the evidences of Sir Francis Wortley 
in 1637, Newhall and Shitlington box, no. 1. 


Sciant omnes tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Jurdanus 
filius Mathei de Horebiri quietum clamavi pro me et heredibus meis 
Thome de Horebiri fratri meo totum jus in tota terra quod clamavi 
versus predictum Thomam in curia comitis Waren[nie] per preceptum 
domini regis, scilicet unam carucatam terre et dimidiam cum perti- 
nentiis in Horebiri, et unam carucatam et dimidiam terre in Sitlingtona, 
et duas bovatas terre cum pertinentiis in Saltonstall, sicuti terram in 
qua nihil juris habui, nisi forte predictus Thomas moriatur sine herede 
de conjuge sibi desponsata et hereditas mihi cadit pro defectu heredis 
de se. Testibus, Willelmo de Liuet tunc senescallo, Willelmo filio 
Willelmi, Reynero Flandr[ensi], Helya de Wlfleia, Reynero filio Helie, 
Jordano de Heton, Henrico de Eland, Hugone de Eland, Hum- 
frido de Lasceles, Willelmo de Horebiri, Thoma fratre ejus, Serlone de 
Chikenl[ore], Roberto de Northamton, Thoma Grafard, et aliis, 


216 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Six witnesses, including the first, are common to this and to no. 152 ; 
and the period is evidently the same. The fifth witness, who witnessed no. 
151 as Reginald son of Elias, can be identified as Reginald son of Elias de 
Soothill (no. 132 note, and no. 149). Serlo de Chichenlore occurs in no. 158. 
For the holding of Ralph de Horbury in Saltonstall see no. 169. 


154. Gift by Jordan son of Matthew de Horbury to the Hospitallers 
of half an acre of land on the south side of the messuage of John 


his son. [early 13th cent.] 
MS. Dodsworth viii, f. 180, from the original in St. Mary’s Tower, 
York. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Jordanus filius Mathei de 
Horbiri dedi et concessi et hac mea presenti carta confirmavi Deo et 
sancto Johanni baptiste et hospitali Jerosolimitano dimidiam acram 
terre cum pertinentiis ex parte australi a messuagio Johannis filii mei 
sicut predicta terra clauditur a fossato, in puram et perpetuam elemo- 
sinam quietam et solutam ab omni seculari servitio. Hanc terram pre- 
dictam warantizabimus ego Jordanus et heredes mei Deo et sancto 
Johanni baptiste contra omnes homines. Hiis testibus, Thoma de 
Horbyri, Ada filio Philippi, Jeremia de Thornhil’, Willelmo filio Thome, 
Jordano de Hetton, Ada persona de Heton, Ada de Mirefeld, Matheo 
de Schepel’, et multis altis. 

In view of the terms of the warranty clause it is probable that this 
charter and the next were not issued before the turn of the century ; more- 
over this charter was issued when the grantor had a son of full age. In 1205 
both the Hospitallers and Jordan de Horbury and his wife were among the 
defendants in a Yorkshire case then postponed.! This was probably the mort 
d’ancestor relating to 3 car. in Hooton Pagnell postponed in Feb. 1203-4, 
Jordan’s wife being named Agnes.2 Adam rector of Kirkheaton occurs in the 
period 1190-1215.3 


155. Gift by Adam son of Hervey de Flockton to Thomas son of 
Matthew de Horbury and his heirs, of 9 acres of land in Little 
Midgley [in Shitlington] which Hervey his father had held; 
rendering 16d. yearly. fc. 1200-1212] 

MS. Dodsworth lxii, f. 19V, from the evidences of Sir Francis Wortley 
in 1637, Shitlington box, no. 42. 

Sciant omnes tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Adam filius 
Herui de Floketon dedi et concessi et hac presenti charta* mea con- 
firmavi Thome filio Mathei de Horebir’ et heredibus suis, pro homagio 
et servitio suo, ix. acras terre in Parua Migeleia quas Herueius pater 
meus ibidem tenuit, tenendas de me et de heredibus meis libere et 
quiete cum omnibus libertatibus predicte terre pertinentibus, red- 
dendo annuatim mihi et heredibus meis xvj. denarios pro omni servicio et 
exactione, scilicet viij. denarios ad festum sancti Martini et viij. denarios 


1 Curia Regis Rolls, iti, 346. 

2 Yorks. Assize Rolls, p. 5. 

3. ELY.C., ii, nos. (IGSo4 870s, 171 1-2, 

+ The text with this spelling is not in Dodsworth’s hand, but in that of 
an assistant. 


HORBURY AND MIDDLE SHITLINGTON AY 


ad Pentecosten. Et ego et heredes mei sibi et heredibus [suis] hanc 
predictam terram contra omnes homines warantizabimus. Hiis testibus, 
Hugone de Leleia, Willelmo de Lyuet,' Adam filio Philippi, Elia de 
Wluelia, Umfrido de Laceles, Serlone de Mirefeld, Jardano* de Hore- 
bfiri], Willelmo de Horeb[iri] et Thoma fratre ejus. 


As stated in the introductory notes above, Little Midgley was a member 
of the honour of Pontefract ; but the charter is printed here in view of its 
references to members of the Horbury family.* The grantor was the donor 
of a villein to Pontefract priory for the sum of 20s. sterling.t Described as 
Adam de Birum he confirmed to the same house 2 bovates in Flockton which 
his lord and brother William son of Hervey had given to William de Houghton 
(Hoctona).5 William son of Hervey gave the same house a bovate in Byram 
[par. Brotherton]’—the place from which Adam took his alternative name. 

William de Horbury, the penultimate witness, was dead by 1212; see 
above. 


156. Agreement between Ralph son of Thomas de Horbury and 

Thomas son of William de Horbury by which they quitclaimed 

to each other specified rights [in Horbury]. [1206-18] 

MS. Dodsworth Ixii, f. 5V, from the evidences of Sir Francis Wortley 
in 1637, Hemsworth etc. box, no. 41. 

Convencio facta inter Radulfum de Horebir’ filium Thome de 
Horebiry ex una parte et Thomam de Horebiry filium Willelmi de Horbiry 
ex alia parte, scilicet quod dictus Radulfus concessit et quietum clamavit 
dicto Thome et heredibus suis totum jus quod habuit vel habere potuit 
infra alnetum et terram quod vocatur Santhalm sine aliquo retinemento. 
Pro hac concessione dictus Thomas concessit predicto Radulfo etc. 
totum jus etc. quod habuit infra foveam que tendit de boveria ejusdem 
Radulfi usque ad essartum ejusdem Radulfi que vocatur assarta domini 
comfitis] et ex alia parte infra foveam que tendit de boverio’ ejusdem 
nominati Radulfi in parte occidentali usque ad eandem assartam etc. 
Testibus, Johanne de Plaiz tunc seneschallo domini Willelmi comitis 
Warann{ie], Rogero de Birkin, Johanne de Thornhill, Gerardo Dub’le, 
Roberto de Barkestun’, Ada de Mirefelt, Michaele de Breretuisell, 
Roberto de Holinehurst, et multis aliis. 


The period conforms with that of the tenure of John de Plaiz as steward ; 
see Chapter V. The earliest limit can be taken as 1206, when Thomas de Hor- 
bury, father of Ralph, was alive. A plot of land in the territory of Horbury 
called le Sandholm is mentioned in a Horbury deed later in the century.® 


a _ —— 


1 He was earl Hamelin’s steward in 1198 (no. 158) ; and it must not be 
assumed that he was not still holding office, although not so described, 
especially as the land given was not part of the manor of Wakefield. 

= otc. 

3 It is noticed by Farrer in his annotation to F.Y.C., iii, no. 1719. 

# Tbhid., no. 1759. 

5 Tbid., no. 1757. At the same time William de Houghton gave these 
2 bov. to the priory (ibid., no. 1760) ; and not later than 1185, as Adam son 
of Peter was a witness, the prior gave them to a Thomas de Horbury ata 
rent of 4s. (ibid., no. 1761). 

6 Jbid., no. 1758: 

PStc. NY ea fap oak, nent 


218 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


(x) KIRKBURTON 


In 1086 3 carucates in Kirkburton were soke of the manor of 
Wakefield. The church, a daughter of the church of Dewsbury, 
was among those given to Lewes priory which are specified in the 
third earl’s charter (no. 34). The interest of the priory was not, 
however, free from competing claims. In 1279-80 William de Birton 
claimed the advowson against the prior of Lewes ; he alleged that 
William his ancestor in the time of Richard I presented a clerk who 
was duly instituted, and that the advowson had descended to him ; 
_ but the prior cited an assize of darrein presentment heard on 27 
Nov. 1198 between Robert son of William de Birton, William’s 
ancestor, and the prior relating to the advowson of the chapel of 
Kirkburton (Birton) belonging to the mother church of Dewsbury, 
and a fine by which the said Robert son of William recognized the 
advowson as the prior’s right, quitclaiming it to the prior and his 
successors." The terms of Robert’s quitclaim are given in the 
charter printed below (no. 158) ; and the case of 1279-80 was fol- 
lowed by a quitclaim by William de Birton, described as son of 
Robert de Birton.2 


It will be noticed that in the first of the following charters 
and the note thereto Richard de Birstall is described as rector of 
a moiety of the church, and that the church was in moieties in 
1228-9 and 1230. Later records show that the church was in 
moieties or portions in 1246-7, 1280, 1286, 1300, and 1311-2;3 
and in 1356 the king who had given the advowson of the church 
to St. Stephen’s chapel in the palace of Westminster authorized 
the union of the portions of tithes.4 The origin of the division of 
the church into moieties is obscure. It is possible that it dates 
from its foundation as a chapel of the church of Dewsbury, the 
lords of the manor of Wakefield and the local family each having 
an interest ; and that the interests of the latter survived and were 


not absorbed by the gift which the former made to the priory of 
Lewes. 


Charters of the sixth earl giving land in Wooldale, and con- 
firming land in Upper Cumberworth, both par. Kirkburton, are 
printed at nos. 90, 94. 


157. Notification by Richard de Birstall, rector of a moiety of the 
church of Kirkburton that he possessed a document as follows : 


1 Assize Roll 1055, m. 55d, pd. in full in S. J. Chadwick, Notes on 
Dewsbury Church in Y.A.J]., xx, 399. The proceedings mention the dispute 
as to whether the church of Kirkburton was a chapel of Dewsbury, as the 
prior said, or a parish church. 

* Lewes Chartulary, f. 300, the date of the case being given in the 
quitclaim as 8 Edw. I; abst. in Y.A.J., xxxi, 311. On 27 Aug. 1280 the abp 
wrote to the king invoking his aid, as certain laymen were impeding the 
clerk who had been collated to a portion of the church on 23 July and to the 
whole church on 24 July (Reg. Wickwane, pp. 29, 32, 262). 

> Reg. Gray, p. 100; Reg. Wickwane, p. 29; Reg. Romeyn, i, 60; Reg. 
Corbridge, i, 119; Reg. Greenfield, ii, 115. 

* Mon. Ang., vi, 1350. 


KIRKBURTON 219 


Notification by the rural dean and chapter of Pontefract to the 
bishops of Lincoln and Ely that with regard to the dispute between 
master W. de Summere and Richard the clerk of Birstall the said 
Richard was the true possessor of a moiety of the church of 
Kirkburton, and had been instituted on the presentation of the 
prior and convent of Lewes by master Laurence, formerly arch- 
deacon of Bedford, and Richard Arundel, who as officials of the 
archbishopric then had care of the spiritualties, and J., Richard’s 
brother, had had no right therein except as his proctor; and, 
when tenths were exacted from churches when king Henry II 
took the cross, the moiety was exempt as Richard took the cross. 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. SU0T aust. In YA /:, 
RXR OLS 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis hoc scriptum visuris vel 
audituris Ric[ardus] de Burstale persona medietatis ecclesie de Birton’ 
salutem in Domino. Noverint! universi me tale habere instrumentum 
vij. sigillis signatum quale verba subjecta declarant : Lincol[niensi] et 
Elyens[i] Dei gracia episcopis et abbati de Rading’ decanus et capitulum 
de Pontefr[acto] salutem in vero salutari; veritatis amatores veritati 
testimonium perhibere tenentur ; hinc est et rei veritatem super causa que 
vertitur inter magistrum W. de Summere et Ric[ardum] clericum de 
Burstal vobis significamus; noveritis itaque prefatum Ricardum cleri- 
cum medietatis ecclesie de Birton’ verum esse possessorem et eam 
canonice esse adeptum et ad presentacionem prioris et conventus de 
Lewes per magistros L[aurentium] quondam archidiac[onum] Bedelf- 
[ordensem] et Ric[ardum] Arundell’ qui tunc officiales archiepiscopatus 
Ebor[acensis] curam gerebant spiritualium institutum fuisse et omnia 
episcopalia ad medietatem prefate ecclesie Birthon pertinencia archi- 
diac[onis] et decanis capituli illius persolvisse eumque longo tempore 
possidisse, ita quod J. frater predicti Ric[ardi] nichil juris habuit in 
prefata medietate ecclesie predicte nec eam nunquam possedit nisi 
tanquam procurator et custos ipsius Ric[ardi], nec eciam vos lateat 
ut? quando decimaciones exigebantur ab ecclesiis tocius Angl[ie] tempore 
Henrici regis qui tunc temporis crucis caractizare signitus erat prefata 
medietas cum aliis suis redditibus ab tali exaccione libera et soluta fuit, 
quia signum crucis gerebat et hoc testimonio nostro et sigillorum 
nostrorum apposicione® vobis significamus. Valeat sanctitas vestra in 
Domino. 


On 24 Jan. 1228-9 the archbishop, by reason of lapse, collated Jordan de 
Hampton, clerk, to the moiety of the church of Kirkburton, which Richard 
de Birstal held, reserving the pension due to the prior and convent of Lewes “4 
and on 7 Aug. 1230, also by reason of lapse, he collated the same man toa 
moiety of the same church, no prejudice to be caused thereby to the prior 
and convent of Lewes or anyone claiming patronage therein.® 


i, Arr —————————————— 
1 Noverit, MS. 
2 et, MS. 

3 apposiscione, MS. 

4 Reg. Gray, p. 28. 

> Ibid., p. 36. 


220 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


The ‘Saladin tithe’, with exemption for those who took the cross, was 
confirmed in England in Feb. 1187-8.1 It can be deduced that Richard de 
Birstall was instituted to a moiety of Kirkburton in the period 1181 (when 
archbishop Roger died) to 1187. 


158. Quitclaim by Robert son of William de Burton to Lewes priory 
of all right in the advowson of the church of Kirkburton; he had 
made this in the court of his lord Hamelin earl de Warenne at 
Wakefield in the presence of the earl and William de Warenne, 
his son. [1198] 


Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 300%. Abst. in Y.A./J., 
Seka 12. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Robert[us] de Birton’ filius 
Willelmi de Birton’ quietum clamavi de me [et] heredibus meis im- 
perpetuum priori et monachis de Lewes totum jus et clamium meum 
quod clamavi habere in advocacione et presentacione persone ecclesie 
de Birton’. Et hoc predictum quietum clamavi? feci in curia domini 
mei Hamel[ini] comitis Waren[nie] apud Wakefeld presentibus ibidem 
predicto domino meo Hamell[ino] comite? Waren[nie] et Willelmo de 
Waren[na] filio predicti comitis et liberis hominibus suis, et ibidem 
coram illis juravi tactis sanctis evangeliis et affidavi pro me et heredibus 
meis quod nunquam de advocacione vel presentacione predicte ecclesie 
de Birton’ clamium vel querelam movebimus versus predictos priorem 
et monachos de Lewes. Hiis testibus, Hamel[ino] comite? Waren[nie], 
Willelmo de Waren[na] filio comitis, Willelmo de Liuet* senescallo, 
Rad[ulfo] de Castello, Samsone de Writeleford, Thoma de Horbir’, 
Burnell’ de Aumesuill’,° Adam de Shitelyngton’, Jeremia de Thornehill’, 
Willelmo de Deneby, Roberto de Shelfleie, Serlone de Chichenlore, 
Rogero filio Doding, Willelmo de Horbir’, Thom[a] fratre ejus, et 
multis aliis. 


The grantor’s father was evidently the William who is said to have made 
a presentation to the church in the reign of Richard I (see above), and the 
William de Birton who owed half a mark for an amercement with other men 
of the neighbourhood at Michaelmas 1191, which was settled in the following 
year.® The grantor was party to a fine in 1208 relating to land in Thorncliffe, 
Linthwaite and Kirkburton, his mother Goditha being mentioned.’ 

The quitclaim was made as a result of the fine following the assize of 
darrein presentment heard on 27 Nov. 1198 (see above). It can therefore be 
deduced that William de Livet, who witnessed several other charters as 
steward, held the office under earl Hamelin in 1198.° 


1 Howden, ii, pp. 336-8. 

a Sic. 

3 comes, MS. 

+ Liuot, MS. 

5 Reading doubtful, but certainly the same man who as Burnellus de 
Aumenil occurs in another entry (see note to no. 54). 

6 Pipe Roll 3 Ric. I, p. 74; 4 Ric. I, p. 219. 

7 Yorks. Fines, John, p. 152. The first place (Thornetele) is in the par. 
and to the east of Kirkburton ; for medieval forms see Goodall, Place-names 
of S. W. Yorks.,. p.-279. 

8 See Chapter V. 


KIRKBURTON 221 


159. Gift by Matthew son of Adam de Middleton, rector of Radcliffe 
[? co. Lancaster] to Roger the clerk of Kirkburton and his heirs 
of a bovate of land in Riley and two assarts, with appurtenances 
in the vill of Kirkburton; rendering 12d. yearly, and doing the 
service to earl de Warenne belonging to the bovate. 

[1202-c. 1210] 


Original charter, Fixby Deeds, parcel i, belonging to the late T. B. 
Clarke-Thornhill, esq., now in the custody of the Yorks. Arch. 
Soc. Abst. in Yorks. Deeds, iii, no. 186. 

Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Matheus filius Ade de Midel- 
tona persona de Radecliue . dedi et concessi et hac presenti carta mea 
confirmaui . Rogero clerico de Birtona et heredibus suis pro homagio 
et seruitio suo et pro . viginti . solidis . quos mihi dedit de recognitione . 
ynam bouatam terre cum pertinentiis suis in Rilay . que iacet proxima 
uersus occidentem . bouate terre quam . Ailsi . quondam tenuit . et 
preterea . duo essarta . scilicet . essartum quod fuit . Ric[ardo] auo meo . 
et nouum essartum . cum Durildewelleker . quod Waltef filius Suani . 
dedit . Ade . patri meo . scilicet . quod se extendit . a Durildewelle 
uersus orientem vsque in diuisas de Seluelay . et sic reuertendo inter 
ynum essartum quod vocatur Vlfkelerode per circuitum Durildewelleker 
usque in Horsfal. Tenend[a] et habend[a] de me et heredibus meis in 
feodo et hereditate libere et quiete cum communa et omnibus asiamentis 
ville de Birtona pertinentibus. Reddendo inde annuatim mihi et here- 
dibus meis ad festum sancti Egidii . xij. denarios pro omni seruitio . et 
faciendo seruitium . domino comiti . War[ennie] . quod pertinet ad 
predictam bouatam terre. Et ego . M[atheus] . et heredes mei warenti- 
zabimus omnia predicta predicto . R[ogero] . et heredibus suis contra 
omnes homines. Domino . Th[oma] . de Horebiry . tunc sen[escallo] . 
comitis . War[ennie] . Jord[ano] . et Eustach[io] fratribus eius . Jord[ano] 
_de Heton’ . Ada de Mirefeld . Willelmo persona de Aldholm . Thom[a] 
Flandr[ensi] . Waltero filio suo . et aliis test[ibus]. 

Tag for seal, missing. 

Riley lies close to the north of Kirkburton, not far from the bounds of 
Shelley (Seluelay) on the south. Some later deeds relating to Riley and to a 
family of that name are in the same collection.! Details of the extreme limits 
of the tenure by Thomas de Horbury of the office of steward are given in 
Chapter V. As the rector of Oldham witnessed, it is probable that Radcliffe, 

- of which the grantor was rector, was the neighbouring parish of that name 
in Lancashire. . 


(xi) OLD LINDLEY 


In 1086 half a carucate in Old Lindley, in the township of 
Stainland, par. Halifax, was soke of the manor of Wakefield. A 
subordinate manor was created, and manorial courts were held 
there.2 This passed to the family of Thornhill through the marriage 


1 Yorks. Deeds, iii, nos. 187-91. 

2 Records of courts held at [Old] Linley in 1404 and 1405 are given in 
Yorks. Deeds, iv, no. 299 and note, among some of the Fixby deeds (nos. 
294-302) which relate to Old Lindley, dating from the 13th to the end of the 
15th cent. : and in one of these (no. 295) there is reference to a yearly rent 
at the terms ordained in respect of earl de Warenne’s land. 


py 7 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


of Richard de Thornhill in the middle of the fourteenth century to 
Margaret granddaughter of Thomas de Totehill, and descended 
with the manor of Fixby (see that section above). 


160. Gift by Roger son of Jordan de Stanley to John son of Ivo Talvas 
of Fixby, his heirs or assigns, of all his share, being a quarter, of 
all the land within specified bounds with appurtenances in the 
vill of [Old] Lindley, rendering 5s. 74d. yearly at three terms; 
together with estovers for burning and building in the commons 
thereof; for which John gave 4 marks of silver and 20d. as a 
gressom payment. [1206-18] 


Fountains Chartulary, Cotton MS. Tiberius C. xii, f. 211 (old f. 208). 
Abst. in Fountains Chartulary, p. 134. 


Sciant omnes tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Rogerus filius 
Jordani de Stanlay dedi et concessi et hac presenti carta mea confirmavi 
Johanni filio Yuonis Taleuaz de Fekisby et heredibus suis vel cuicunque 
dare vel assignare voluerit pro homagio et servicio suo totam partem 
meam tocius terre cum omnibus bossis! versus aquilonem de Saltaregate 
inter Cumbecloc et Hadercloc et inter sepem de Auenlay et moram de 
Linlay, scilicet quartam partem tocius terre que est infra predictas divisas 
cum omnibus bossis!; tenendam et habendam de me et heredibus meis 
illi et heredibus suis vel suis assignatis libere quiete et hereditarie et 
honorifice cum omnibus libertatibus et communis tante terre in villa 
de Linlay pertinentibus pro quinque solidis et septem denariis et obolo 
annuatim solvendis pro omni servicio et exaccione, scilicet ad festum 
sancti Michaelis xxij. denarios obolum et ad Purificacionem beate Marie 
Xx1j. denarios obolum et ad Pentecosten xxij. denarios obolum. Et idem 
Johannes et heredes sui vel sui assignati habebunt racionabile estu- 
verium suum ad ardendum et edificandum in prefatis communis in prefata 
villa de Linlay salva donacione et vendicione nemoris mei et terre mee. 
Pro hac autem donacione et confirmacione dedit michi predictus 
Johannes i1ij°' marcas argenti et xx. denarios in gersuma. Et ego et 
heredes mei prefatam terram predicto Johanni et heredibus suis vel 
suis assignatis contra omnes homines in perpetuum warentizabimus. 
Et ut hec donacio mea rata sit et stabilis presenti scripto sigillum meum 
apposui. Hiis testibus, Johanne de Playz tunc senescallo domini comitis, 
Hugone de Heland, Thoma de Horbiry, Willelmo Flendrensi, Johanne 
de Thornhil, Johanne de Hetona, Rogero de Rastric, Henrico de 
Huuerum, Henrico de Huperum, Yuone Taleuaz, Jordano Taleuaz, 
Ricardo de Fekisby, Henrico fratre ejus, et multis altis. 


This and the following charters are included, not in consecutive order, 
in the section of the Chartulary relating to Bradley [near Huddersfield], a 
member of the honour of Pontefract, where Fountains abbey had a grange.” 
The abbey also had a grange at Ainley in Elland, also a member of that 


1 Sic, for boscts. 
2 See the charters relating to Bradley in E.Y.C., iii, nos. 1762-5. 


OLD LINDLEY 223 


honour.! The land described in the present charter bordered on Ainley 
(Auenlay), from which it was presumably administered, and lay in Old 
Lindley, a member of the manor of Wakefield. 


The grantee gave the land described as in the present charter, amounting 
to 20 acres, to John his brother, son of Eve de Skirkotes, at a yearly rent of 
5s. 8d.2, Described as John de Fekesby, he included the lands which he held 
of Malvesin de Hersic (see no. 162) and Roger de Stanley in the ‘heya’ of 
Linlay in a charter to Fountains ; witnessed by John de Playz, steward of 
earl de Warenne and four others who witnessed the present charter.? For 
1206 and 1218 as the extreme limits for the tenure of this steward see 
Chapter V. Some charters relating to land in Fixby given to Ivo Talvas, 
the grantee’s father, have been printed above at nos. 140-2. 


161. Confirmation by Roger son of Jordan de Stanley to Fountains 
abbey of all the land which the monks had in his fee of the gift 
of John de Fekesby [in Old Lindley], rendering to him and his 
heirs 5s. 74d. yearly at three terms. [1206-18] 


Fountains Chartulary, Cotton MS. Tiberius C. xii, f. 214V (old f. 
211V). Abst. in Fountains Chartulary, p. 137. 


Omnibus sancte ecclesie filiis presentibus et futuris Rogerus 
filius Jordani de Stanley salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et presenti 
carta mea confirmasse Deo et monachis ecclesie sancte Marie de Fonti- 
bus totam terram quam habent in feodo meo ex dono Johannis de 
Fekesby cum omnibus pertinenciis communis libertatibus et aisiamentis 
suis, ita scilicet quod prefati monachi tenebunt et habebunt totam 
dictam terram cum pertinenciis et cum homagiis et serviciis hominum 
et heredum suorum qui ipsam terram tenent in liberam et pacificam 
elemosinam secundum tenorem carte quam dedi predicto Johanni; 
reddendo inde michi et heredibus meis annuatim quinque solidos 
argenti et septem denarios et obolum, scilicet viginti et duos denarios 
et obolum ad festum sancti Michaelis et viginti et duos denarios et 
obolum ad Purificacionem beate Marie et viginti et duos denarios et 
obolum ad Pentecosten pro omni servicio et exaccione. Et ego et heredes 
mei omnia prenominata prefatis monachis contra omnes warentizabimus 
et defendemus in perpetuum. Et in hujus rei testimonium huic carte 
sigillum meum apposui. Hiis testibus, Johanne de Plaiz tunc senescallo 
domini comitis de War[enna], Godefrido de Bello Monte constabulario 
de Sandal’, Thoma de Horbyri, Johanne de Heton’, Henrico de Digton’, 
Hugone de Rastric, et pluribus. 


There then follow (a) a release by the same to the monks of 2s. 73d. of 
the above rent ; same witnesses ; and (b) a release by William Coly son of 
Geoffrey Coly of Stanlay of the balance of 3s. rent for the land which Roger 


1 There are some charters relating to Ainley in the same section 
(Fountains Chartulary, pp. 132, 138) ; and there is a separate section headed 
‘Awndelay’ containing four charters issued to the abbey by the heirs of 
Henry de Eland the elder (ibid., pp. 64-5). 

2 Ibid., p. 135. 

3 Ibid., p. 136 ; also a further charter giving his rents of 8s. ld., received 
from his brothers John, Thomas, Ivo and Henry and another sub-tenant. 


224 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


his grandfather of Stanl[ay] gave to John de Fegesby, lying within le Haghe 
in the territory of Lynnelay ; dated at Fountains, 1 Nov. 1260 ; with witnesses 
named. 


162. Gift by Malvesin de Hersy to John son of Ivo Talvas, his heirs 
or assigns, of all his land within specified bounds and common 
belonging to so much land in the vill of [Old] Lindley for his 
own beasts fed thereon, rendering 13s. 9d. yearly at three terms ; 
together with estovers, the grantor retaining all oaks thereon for 
his own use; for which John gave 8 marks of silver and 40d.:as a 
gressom payment. [1206-18] 


Fountains Chartulary, Cotton MS. Tiberius C. xii, f. 211V (old f. 
208V). Abst. in Fountains Chartulary, p. 135. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Maluesinus de Horsin dedi et 
concessi et hac mea carta confirmavi Johanni filio Yuonis Taleuaz et 
heredibus suis vel cui assingnare voluerit pro homagio et servicio suo 
totam terram meam versus aquilonem de Saltergate inter Cumclock et 
Haderclock et inter sepem de Auunnelay et moram; tenendam et 
habendam de me et heredibus meis illi et heredibus suis vel suis assing- 
natis libere quiete hereditarie honorifice cum omnibus libertatibus et 
communis tante terre in villa de Linlay pertinentibus tantum ad propria 
averia sua nutrita in predicta terra, pro tresdecim solidis annuatim 
solvendis et mnovem denariis pro omni servicio et exaccione 
salvo forinseco servicio, scilicet ad Pentecosten 1iij. solidos vij. denarios 
ad festum sancti Michaelis i1ij. solidos vij. denarios ad Purificacionem 
beate Marie iiij. solidos vij. denarios. Et idem Johannes habebit racion- 
abile estoverium suum ad ardendum et edificandum in prefata terra | 
per visum servientis mei. Et sciendum est quod omnes quercus que 
sunt in eadem terra integre ad opus meum retineo. Pro hac vero dona- 
cione et confirmacione dedit michi predictus Johannes viijt° marcas 
argenti de gersuma et xl. denarios. Et ego et heredes mei prefatam 
terram predicto Johanni et heredibus suis vel suis assingnatis contra 
omnes homines warantizabimus. Et ut hec mea donacio rata sit et 
stabilis presenti scripto sigillum meum apposui. Hiis testibus, domino 
Johanne de Pleiz tunc senescallo comitis, domino Hugone de Eland, 
Thoma de Horbir’, Rogero de Tornton’, Johanne de Thornhill’, 
Johanne de Heton’, Johanne de Sothil, Jordano Taleuaz, Henrico de 
Vuerum, Henrico de Hiperum, Matheo de Norland, Ricardo de Fekesby, 
Henrico fratre ejus, Roberto clerico de Huderesfeld, et multis aliis. 


The grantor, the origin of whose interest in Old Lindley is unknown, 
held a tenancy of the honour of Tickhill juve uxoris. Gilbert de Arches held 
land in Tickhill which was restored to him in the time of Richard I ; his heirs 
were his two daughters Theophania wife of Mauvaisin de Hersin and Isabel 
wife of William le Rus.? In 1207-08 these daughters and their husbands gave 
50 marks and 2 palfreys in Nottinghamshire for having 2 knights’ fees held 


1 Fountains Chartulary, p. 137. 
2 Rolls of Justices in Eyre for Yorks, 1218-19, Selden Soc., p. 16. 


OLD LINDLEY 225 


of that honour which had belonged to Gilbert de Arches their father.’ In 
1208-13 these 2 knight’s fees were held by ‘Maleveisinus’? ; and in 1235-36 
he and William Ruffus held them jointly, their location being Grove and 
Weston, co. Nottingham,? the details of 1242-43 showing that they then held 
the former vill for 14 knights’ fees and half a knight’s fee in the latter.‘ 
In 1242-43 Mauvesin de Hersy also held the vill of Osberton, co. Nottingham, 
by the service of dispenser of the countess d’ Eu,°> then lady of the honour 
of Tickhill.© Thoroton gives a pedigree of his descendants which continued 
in the male line for many generations ;7 and he gives a reference to a fine of 
1341-42 by which Hugh de Hercy made a settlement of the manor of Grove 
and a carucate in Ravensfield. This latter place must be Ravenfield, near 
Rotherham ; but the carucate appears to have lain in that portion of the vill 
which was a member of the honour of Tickhill, and not in the portion which 
was a member of the honour of Conisborough.® In 1316 the lords of Raven- 
field are given as earl de Warenne, Hugh de Darcy and Robert de Sywardeby.? 
Certainly the latter is an error for Robert de Sandeby, a tenant there of the 
honour of Tickhill. Hunter noticed that Hugh de Darcy must be a misnomer"; 
and it can now be suggested that it is an error for Hugh de Hercy in view of 
the terms of the fine cited above.!! 


Malvesin de Hersy had a brother Baldwin de Hersy who was constable 
of Conisborough in 1230 (no. 129). The two brothers, who together witnessed 
charters of the sixth earl (nos. 92, 94), and, described as knights, a charter 
to Roche abbey in 1219,!2 were nephews of Hugh de Hersy, to whom at the 
request of king Richard I Waleran earl of Warwick gave a knight’s fee in 
Pillerton, co. Warwick (which became known as Pillerton Hersey), and who 
was the father of John de Hersy, a minor in 1211, and the tenant of a 
knight’s fee there in 1235-36 and 1242-43.13 


1 Rot. de Fin., p. 419. In 1229 they were defendants against the abp of 
York relating to the advowson of the chapel of East Retford, par. Clarborough, 
co. Nottingham (Bracton’s Note Book, no. 329). 

2 Bk: of Fees, p- 32. 

2 1bid., p. 534. 

4 Ibid., pp. 978-9. 

PAlbid., p. 999. 

. © The text of her charter, confirmed in 1232, releasing to Malvesin de 
Hersyn all’ customs due to Tickhill castle for 2 k.f., he and his heirs to do 
scutage, is pd. in Cal. Ch. Rolls, 1226-57, p. 170. Thoroton states that 
Malvesin was constable of Tickhill in 1220-21 (Nottinghamshire, ed. Throsby, 
iii, 261). 

7 Tbid., p. 262. For the descent from Robert (elder son of Malvesin) to 
his brother Hugh and thence to Hugh living temp. Edw. III see Plac. de 
Quo War., p. 646a. 

8 For the division of Ravenfield between the two honours see Chapter 
III above. 

9 Feudal Aids, vi, 203. 

10 South Yorkshire, i, 396. 

11 This is more likely than Hunter’s suggested Hugh de Sandeby. 

12 Mon. Ang., v, 505. 

13 Curia Regis Rolls, iv, 111; Bk. of Fees, pp. 508, 956. The relationship 
is shown in the proceedings of a case in 1211 (Curia Regis Rolls, vi, 170) 
relating to the advowson of Pillerton [Hersey], in which the prior of St. Neots 
put forward a charter of Hugh issued with the assent of Maud his wife and 
Malveisin his nephew and then his heir; but after Maud’s death Hugh 
married again and had issue John. 


226 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


(xii) NORMANTON 


In 1086 10 carucates in Normanton were soke of the manor 
of Wakefield, the church however lying outside the soke. Later 
evidence shows that the church was within the sphere of interest 
of the honour of Pontefract. The early history of Normanton is 
obscure ;!} but it is clear that interests there were held by the 
families of Peitevin of Altofts,2 Butler and Morker. 


Early in the thirteenth century Roger le Peitevin gave all 
his land in Normanton to Hugh his brother ;3 and it was apparently 
from Hugh’s daughter that the family of Malet of Normanton was 
descended.* 


William son of Morker witnessed a charter with other men 
of the neighbourhood in 1189.5 Robert Morker with others were 
defendants in a case of disseisin of common of pasture in Normanton 
in 1208.° He is described as nepos of Mabel de Tilly, who confirmed 
his gift to Roche abbey of land in Bramley, par. Braithwell, c. 
1195-c. 1205 (no. 120 above). 


In 1231 Hugh le Boteler claimed from Robert Morker 6 
carucates of land in Normanton in which Robert had no entry, so 
it was alleged, save through William Morker to whom Thomas de 
Arnethorpe,’? Hugh’s grandfather, whose heir he was, demised 
them for a term of years then expired ; the plaintiff afterwards 
withdrew.® On 17 Jan. 1251-2 an institution to the church of Nor- 
manton was made on the presentation of Maud, Emma and Isabel 
daughters of Walter Morkel.® In 1256 Roger le Peytivin, lord of 
Altofts, son and heir of Thomas le Peytivin,!® gave to the Hospital- 
lers at Newland [par. Normanton], with his body for burial, men- 
tioning his father Thomas and his mother Isabel, the whole advow- 


1 There is an account of a rambling character in a MS. penes Mr. Richard 
Mallett of Normanton in the seventeenth century, which gives several details 
from the conquest to the thirteenth century of local families; this must be 
read with caution and no statement can be accepted without corroborative 
evidence. It is printed from a translation in Y.A.J., viii, 5, and mentioned 
iv ALYiG,, iii, P4272. 

2 For a documented account of this family see W. Paley Baildon, 
Baildon and the Baildons, i, pp. 287 et seg. Altofts, par. Normanton, was a 
member of the Lascy fee ; see E.Y.C., iii, p. 235. 

3 E.Y.C., iii, no. 1573; where the date assigned is 1190-1215; but 
Baildon’s date c. 1220 (op. cit., i, 291) is to be preferred. 

+ In 1299 Roger Malet claimed land in Normanton as Hugh’s grandson 
and heir (Baildon, op. cit., i, 291n). For later generations of this family see 
Glover’s Visitation, ed. Foster, p. 326 ; earlier generations and the ancestry 
of related families, many of the details being based on the “Mallett MS.” 
mentioned above, are given in ibid., p. 325. 

5 E.Y.C., ii, no. 1603. 

6 Curia Regis Rolls, v, 260. 

7 For him see W. P. Baildon’s account of the Butlers of Skelbrook in 
VVAl Fe) ax; 62. 

8 Curia Regis Roll 48, m. 13d; Assize Roll 1042, m. 25d; cited in 
Y.A.J., xxix, 73 and in Farrer’s H.K.F. MS. for Warenne. 

9 Reg. Gray, p. 111. 

10 This Thomas was son and heir of Roger, elder brother of Hugh, 
mentioned above ; see the pedigree in Baildon and the Baildons, i, 300. 


NORMANTON © 207 


son of the church of Normanton, which advowson Maud, Emma 
and Isabel daughters and heirs of Walter le Morker had recognized 
to be his right before the justices itinerant, together with land in 
his wood of Altofts and common of pasture in his manor there.’ A 
presentation to the church was made by the prior of the Hospital- 
lers in 1275.? 


163. Agreement between H. the prior and the convent of Lewes, and 
Hugh, rector of Wakefield, chaplain of earl de Warenne, concern- 
ing the church of Normanton, by which of the 7s. received by 
Hugh from Bernard, rector of Normanton, he would give a 
moiety to the priory at Michaelmas, such moiety to be dependent 


on any increase or loss of the said rent. [? 1177-86] 
Lewes Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. F. xv, f. 303. Abst. in Y.A./., 
xxxi; 318. 


Hec est convencio inter H. priorem et conventum de sancto 
Pancracio et H[ugonem] personam de Wakefeld capellanum comitis 
War[ennie] super ecclesia de Normantun, videlicet quod de vij. solidis 
quos predictus Hug[o] recepit de Bernardo persona memorate ecclesie — 
de Normantun pro bono pacis reddet medietatem scilicet xlij. d. domui 
de Lewes ad festum sancti Micaelis. Si autem Hug[o] capellanus 
predictum redditum accreverit tocius incrementi medietatem ad 
predictum terminum priori et conventui reddet. Et si quomodo pre- 
dictum redditum perdiderit ipso perdente et domus de Lewes perdet 
similiter sicut et in incremento participant. Hiis testibus, Adam de 
Ponyng, Spreg’, Willelmo senescallo, Rog[ero] clerico, Ysaac, Norman, 
Henrico, Laurencio, Bartholomeo, Simone, Rogero, Ricardo, et multis 
aliis. 

Bernard, rector of Normanton, made an agreement with Kirkstall abbey 
relating to the tithes of 3 carucates in Snydale [par. Normanton], which 
Robert de Lascy had given to the abbey ; the date assigned is c. 1198-1200.° 
It is stated in the ‘‘Mallett MS.’’, which as noted above must be read with 
caution, that Bernard, rector of Normanton, was son of Richard son of 
Waltheof by his wife Bennet ‘a neife’, and that he was presented to the 
rectory by Robert de Lascy who had the wardship of Roger le Peitevin the 
elder, which church he kept almost four score years,* keeping hospitality and 
open house for all. Whatever may be the value of some of the details the 
statement that Bernard was presented by Robert de Lascy during the minority 
of Roger le Peitevin has the appearance of being true ; for this Roger was 
evidently the Roger whose birth has been placed at c. 1160,° and Robert de 
Lascy succeeded to the lordship of the honour of Pontefract in 1177. 


It seems clear that H. the prior of Lewes was either Hugh who resigned 
in 1186 or Humbert [also Hubert] who occurs 1202-7.° Of these the former 


EE aa rrann ena 


1 Mon. Ang., vi, 807. 

2 Reg. Giffard, p. 255. 

3 Kirkstall Coucher, no. 211 ; and for the date E.Y.C., ili, p. 273. 

+ This is difficult to believe ; 24 years is perhaps more likely. 

5 Baildon and the Baildons, i, 290. 

6 V.C.H. Sussex, ii, 69. For Hubert, prior in 1202, see no. 85 above. 


228 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


seems more likely; and in that case the charter can therefore be dated 1177-86.! 
It can de deduced in any case that Hugh the earl’s chaplain was an earlier 
rector of Wakefield than Catardus (no. 172 below). Possibly he can be 
identified with Hugh de Livet, earl Hamelin’s chaplain, who witnessed one 
of his charters, 1180-1202 (no. 81). 


(xill) OSSETT 

In 1086 34 carucates in Ossett were soke of the manor of 
Wakefield. An interest held by the Horbury family is shown in 
the following charters.2. Another interest, known as Southwood, 
formed a manor which Sir John de Horbury was granted by earl 
de Warenne in March 1301-2, to hold for life.2 Subsequently this 
was acquired, apparently by marriage,* by a younger branch of 
the family of Scargill.2 Warin son of William de Scargill died in 
his father’s lifetime on 13 Sept. 1349, holding a messuage and a 
carucate of land called ‘Southwod’ in Ossett of the king in chief as 
parcel of the manor of Wakefield by knight-service, but for what 
portion of a fee was unknown to the jurors ; he also held a mes- 
suage and a carucate of land in Lupset, and rents and land in Wake- 
field ; and in addition a tenancy of Sir John de Everingham in 
Birkin ; William his son, then aged 94 years, was his heir, and was 
in possession in 1362.° 


164. Gift and quitclaim by William son of Adam de Ossett to Ralph 
son of Thomas de Horbury and his heirs of 5 bovates of land in 
Ossett which Ralph had held of him; for 5 marks. [1206-18] 


MS. Dodsworth 1xii, f. 4, from the evidences of Sir Francis Wortley, 
Hemsworth etc. box, no. 15. 


Ego W[illelm]us filius Ade de Osseleset dedi’ et quietum clam[avi] 
Radulfo filio Tome de Horbiri et heredibus quinque bovatas terre in 
Oselesete cum pertinenciis, illas videlicet quas ipse Radulfus prius de 
me tenuit; pro hac concessione idem Radulfus dedit mihi quinque 


1 Farrer in his H.K.F. MS. suggests c. 1190. The above suggestion 
revises that made in dating this charter as ?1202-7 in Y.A.J., xxxi, 318. It 
was also suggested there that the third witness was William de Livet, earl 
Hamelin’s steward in 1198 ; but this must be regarded as doubtful, and it is 
more likely that he was the prior’s steward. 

2 See also an interest held by a younger branch of the Horbury family 
noted in the introduction to the Horbury section above. 

3 Noted in ibid. Southwood Green is in Ossett. 

4 It is stated (Y.A./J., viii, 8n) that Sir John de Breus and Margaret his 
wife gave lands in Ossett, Wakefield, Sandal and Stanley with Joan their 
daughter to Sir William de Scargill in 1316-17. Presumably this was the John 
de Bruosa who was given large interests in the manor of Wakefield by the 
eighth earl, and who died in 1342 (Cal. Ing. p.m., 1x, no. 54, p. 48 ; zbid., no. 
102). 

5 For a large number of details relating to different branches of this 
family, which took its name from Scargill, N.R., together with a chart 
pedigree, see Plantagenet-Harrison, Yorkshire, pp. 291 et seq. 

6 Cal. Ing. p.m., xi, no. 435 ; and cf. Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1361-64, p. 421 for 
several transactions relating to this property. 

7 dedit, MS. 


OSSETT 229 


marcas in gersuma. Testibus, domino Johanne le Plaiz tunc tempore 
seneschaldo domini comitis Warren[nie], domino constabulario Gode- 
frido de Attell, domino Maluaisin de Hersin’, domino Toma filio 
Willelmi de Horbiri, domino Roberto de Barkeston, Ada filio Alani de 
Crigleston, etc. 


An agreement by Ralph son of Thomas de Horbury, also witnessed by 
John de Plaiz as steward, is printed at no. 156; the same limits, 1206-18, 
can be assigned for the present charter. In an Old Lindley charter of the 
same period, also witnessed by Plaiz as steward (no. 161), Godfrey de Beau- 
mont occurs as constable of Sandal. It must be supposed that he was the same 
man as Godfrey de Attell who witnessed the present one.! 


165. Quitclaim by Jordan son of Halegrim to Ralph de Horbury and 
his heirs of half a carucate of land in Ossett which Ralph said was 
his right through the said Halegrim, and quitclaim against 
Margery in respect of her dower. 25 July 1221. 


MS. Dodsworth ILxii, f. 10Y, from the evidences of Sir Francis Wortley 
in 1637, Newhall and Shitlington box, no. 22. 


Ad festum sancti Jacobi apostoli proximum postquam rex Scotie 
duxit in uxorem sororem regis Anglie Jordanus filius Halegrim quietum 
clamavit Radulfo de Horbiri et heredibus unam dimidiam carucatam 
terre in Osolsete quam Radulfus dicebat esse jus suum per Halegrim 
patrem dicti Jordani et quietabit dictum Radulfum versus Margeriam 
de dote sua. Testibus, Hugone de Eland, Johanne de Tornhill, Johanne 
de Sotil, Johanne de Heton, Michaele de Haia, Thoma de Horbiri, 
Roberto de Wirintorp. 

Alexander II, king of Scotland, married Joan daughter of king John on 

19 June 1221. 


(xiv) RASTRICK 


In 1086 one carucate in Rastrick, according to the Summary 
of the Survey, or half a carucate according to the Text, was soke 
of the manor of Wakefield. Land in Toothill, a hamlet in Rastrick, 
which had been held in villeinage, was granted by John de Warenne 
to Henry de Walda in or shortly before 1316 ; this land, which was 
later described as a manor, though there is no evidence of the 
exercise of any manorial rights, passed to the Thornhills of Fixby 
early in the fifteenth century, and descended in that family with 
the manor of Fixby.? 


166. Sale by Emma daughter of Hugh son of Orm de Batley and 
Assolf her son and heir to Roger son of William de Bingley of a 
bovate of land in the vill of Rastrick which Leising son of Herbert 
then held, and the said Leising with his sequel, for 20s. sterling. 


[c. 1188-1202] 
MS. Dodsworth lviii, f. 21.3 


1 See Chapter V. 

2 See the notes on this in Yorks. Deeds, iii, 156. Tothil is mentioned in 
a charter of 1204-09 (Fountains Chartulary, p. 123.) 

3 Also an abbreviated copy on f. 20. 


230 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Emma filia Hugonis filii Orm 
de Bateleia et Assulfus filius et heres meus vendidimus imperpetuum 
Rogero filio Willelmi de Bingeleia unam bovatam terre cum omnibus 
pertinenciis in villa de R[astricke]' quam scilicet Leisingus filius 
Herberti tenet et ipsum Leisingum cum tota secta sua et posteritate pro 
viginti solidis esterlingorum ut hanc vendicionem nostram presenti carta 
nostra confirmavimus et eam predicto Rogero et heredibus ejus warranti- 
zare debemus. Hiis testibus, Reginario Flamago,? Henrico de Eland, 
Hugone de Eland, Henrico et Roberto ejus fratribus, Adam filio Orm, 
Thoma de Horbfiri], Jordano ejus fratre, Thoma de Birketheit, Johanne 
ejus fratre, Johanne de Birkin, Rogero ejus fratre, Willelmo Waard, 
Waltero de Ladune, Henrico capellano de Wakefeld factore carte, et 
multis aliis. 


This charter can be compared with no. 139, which was witnessed by the 
same members of the Eland family. The earlier limit is suggested by the 
fact that Matthew de Horbury, father of Thomas and Jordan, was alive in 
1188 ; see the Horbury section above. The grantee became known as Roger 
de Rastrick who witnessed nos. 142, 160 of slightly later date. A Hugh de 
Rastrick who witnessed no. 161 was his contemporary. 


167. Gift by Henry de Eland to Roger son of William de Bingley of 
2 bovates of land in Rastrick, with two villeins holding them, and 
the land of Lillands within specified bounds, and a messuage and 
194 acres in Rastrick; rendering 5s. 3d. yearly at three terms; for 
which Roger gave 3 marks of silver. [c. 1188-1202] 

MS. Dodsworth lviii, f. 21, from the original. 3 Copy of the original, * 
Fixby Deeds, parcel xiv, belonging to the late T. B. Clarke- 


Thornhill, esq., now in the custody of the Yorks. Arch. Soc. ; 
abst. in Yorks. Deeds, iv, no. 407. 


Sciant tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Henr[icus] de Heland 
dedi et concessi et hac presenti carta mea confirmavi Rogero filio 
Willelmi de Bingelaia et heredibus suis pro homagio et servicio suo 
duas bovatas terre in Rastricke, unam videlicet quam Alexander filius 
Alexandri tenuit et eundem Alexandrum cum tota sequela sua et alteram 
bovatam quam Leisingus filius Herberti tenuit et ipsum Leisingum cum 
tota sequela sua. Do etiam et concedo predicto Rogero totam terram 
illam quam Ricardus de Fekisby tenuit in Rastricke, scilicet les Linlands 
sicuti sepes ducta [est] aque de Kelder per Hallesteed et descendit in 
eundem Kelder ad rupem et essartum domine in quo quatuor acre 
continentur et una perticata. Do etiam ei et confirmo unum messuagium 


1 See the next charter. 

2 Sic ; the witness was Reiner le Fleming. 

3 Except for certain points this text is to be preferred. It is not in 
Dodsworth’s hand ; and inserted in the volume is a note by Mr. John Lister 
of Shibden, written while an undergraduate at Brasenose, giving good reasons 
for supposing that MS. Dodsw. lviii was compiled by Nicholas Hanson, brother 
of John Hanson of Woodhouse in Rastrick, who died in 1613. 

4 Endorsed : This deed is in Ric. Ramsdin hand, whereof this is a true 
copy, 1633, wrytin furth by Ed. Hanson. Also a note in 18th cent. hand 
that the premises belong to that part of Linlands purchased since the other 
purchased of Firth and Rastrik by Wm. Thornhill about 1402. 


RASTRICK 231 


in Rastricke et x. acras terre in Birkinroid et quatuor acras terre versus 
Fekisby inter viam et rivilum et 1j. acras terre et dimidiam scilicet in 
Suhtegeker et iij. acras terre in Haskeshirst cum omnibus pertinenciis 
ad predictas bovatas pertinentibus. Tenend[a] et habend[a] de me et 
heredibus meis illi et heredibus suis libere et quiete et hereditarie in 
_bosco in plano in aquis et pratis in viis et semitis et in omnibus aliis 
easiamentis et libertatibus ad eandem villam pertinentibus. Ipse autem 
Rogerus et heredes sui reddent annuatim mihi et heredibus meis de 
predictis terris v. solidos et iij. denarios, scilicet xxj. d. ad Purificacionem 
beate Marie et xxj. d. ad Pentecosten et xxj. d. ad festum sancti Michaelis 
pro omni servicio et exactione. Ipse vero Rogerus et heredes sui facient 
forinsecum servicium de predictis duabus bovatis terre scilicet quas 
Alexander tenuit et quas Leisingus tenuit. Pro hac vero donacione et 
concessione dedit mihi pre manibus predictus Rogerus tres marcas 
argenti. Ego autem et heredes mei warantizabimus predicto Rogero et 
heredibus suis totam predictam terram in omnibus et contra omnes 
homines imperpetuum. His testibus, Johanne de Birkin, Rogero et 
Petro fratribus ejus, Thoma de Horbery, Jordano et Ada et Willelmo 
et Eustacio fratribus ejus, Petro de Birkthwait et Thoma et Johanne et 
Ada fratribus ejus, Hugone de Heland, Henrico et Willelmo et 
Roberto fratribus ejus, Alano filio Ade de Crigilston, Thoma fratre 
ejus, Gilberto! capellano de Almanbiri, Roberto persona” de Sandale, 
Roberto de Lyuerseg’, Roberto? de Northmanton’, Johanne filio 
Uthredi, Henrico filio suo, Ricardo filio Henrici de Huperom, et 
multis aliis. 


(xv) RISHWORTH 


Rishworth, par. Halifax, lay within the bounds of Sowerby- 
shire. It was not mentioned by name in the Domesday survey. 


168. Gift by Thomas son of William de Horbury to Ivo Talvas and 
his heirs of all his land of Wormald with appurtenances in the 
vill of Rishworth, rendering 18d. yearly; for which Ivo gave 7s. 
in recognition. [1202-c. 1210] 


Fountains Chartulary, Cotton MS. Tiberius C. xii, f. 210 (old f. 207). 
Abst. in Fountains Chartulary, p. 134. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Thomas filius Willelmi de 
Horbiry dedi et concessi et hac presenti carta mea confirmavi Yuoni 
Taleuace et heredibus suis totam terram meam de Wlfrunwall’ sine 
retenemento pro homagio et servicio suo, tenendam de me et heredibus 
meis ille et heredes sui* in feudo et hereditate libere et quiete et honori- 
fice et hereditarie in bosco in plano in pratis in pasturis et in omnibus 


1 As in the second copy (F.) In MS. Dodsw. it is viz. For Gilbert see 
no. 143. 

2 pa, Dodsw. ; preposito, F. For Robert rector of Sandal [Magna] see 
also nos. 136, 143, 172. 

3 Johanne, F. It is doubtful which is correct ; but .a..Robert .de 
Northamton occurs in no, 153, 

* Sic. 


232 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


libertatibus et aisiamentis et communis totidem terre in villa de Rishe- 
wrhe pertinentibus, reddendo annuatim michi et heredibus meis xviij. 
denarios ad festum sancti Oswaldi pro omni servicio et exaccione. Pro 
hac vero donacione et confirmacione dedit michi predictus Yuo in 
recognicione vij. solidos. Et ego et heredes mei warantizabimus pre- 
dictam terram predicto Yuoni et heredibus suis in perpetuum contra 
omnes homines. Hiis testibus, William de Liuet tunc senescallo, 
Thoma filio Mathei de Horbiri, Jordano de Hethun, Johanne f[ilio] 
ejus, Hugone de Elande, Ricardo filio ejus, Willelmo Taleuace, Thoma 
fratre suo, Johanne filio Ricardi de Thornil, Willelmo fratre suo, 
Henrico de Elande, Matheo de Nordland, Henrico de Vuerum, Henrico 
de Hiperum, Jordano fratre ejus, et multis altis. 


Wormald,! of which Wlfrunwall was an early form, is in Rishworth ; 
and there are some further charters relating to it in the Chartulary. When 
John de Plaiz was steward Ivo Talvas gave this land to his son John the 
clerk, known as John de Fixby, who gave it with other land to Fountains 
abbey ; and Thomas son of William de Horbury gave to the abbey the 
homage and service of Elias son of Richard de Wlfrunwelle for the land of 
Wlfrunwelle which John had given, and quitclaimed the rent of 18d.? 


It is reasonably certain that the grantor of the present charter was the 
son of William de Horbury who married a coheir of Henry de Eland the elder,* 
and was living in 1202 (see note to no. 135). The date of the charter is there- 
fore later. The first witness was steward in 1198 (no. 158). Comparing it 
with two Old Lindley charters (nos. 160, 162), both witnessed by John de 
Plaiz as steward, six witnesses to the present one occur in one of them and 
seven in the other. The deductions seem to be that Livet remained as 
steward until after 1202, and that no long period separated his tenure of the 
office from that of John de Plaiz. As, Thomas son of Matthew de Horbury, 
the second witness, who died not later than 1218, was steward earlier than 
Plaiz (see Chapter V) his tenure must have been short ; and it can be sug- 
gested that he was succeeded by Plaiz not later than c. 1210, which can be 
taken as the latest possible limit for the present charter. Matthew de Shepley, 
who succeeded Plaiz, was steward in 1218-19. 


(xvi) SALTONSTALL 


Saltonstall lies in the township of Warley, where 4 carucates 
formed a berewick of the manor of Wakefield in 1086. It was 
within the bounds of Sowerbyshire ; and among the several vaccaries 
there, where cattle were nourished and bred, were those of Over and 
Nether Saltonstall, of which details have been printed for the 
period 1309-10.4 


1 For a paper on Wormald in Rishworth see Halifax Ant. Soc. Tyrans., 
1938, p. 224 ; and for the place-name, derived from the personal Ulfrun or 
Wulfrun, see Goodall, Place-names of S. W. Yorks., p. 306. 

2 Fountains Chartulary, pp. 134, 136. 

3 Another charter in the Chartulary (p. 136) shows that this Thomas de 
Horbury held a portion of the mill of Elland. 

+ Wakefield Court Rolls, ii, pp. xxix-xxxi, from a MS. [?] temp. James 
I, with several further details and notes on the Saltonstall family ; the MS. is 
headed ‘Notes and observations of antiquitie concernynge the vaccarie of 
Saltonstall in Sowerbyeshier’. 


SALTONSTALL 233 


169. Agreement between Ralph de Horbury and Thomas son of 
Gregory de Owram by which the former demised to the latter 
for a term of sixteen years an assart within the bounds of Salton- 
stall with buildings thereon and other land there, assarting and 
gift and sale of wood excepted, at a yearly rent of 2s. 4d. | eal 


MS. Dodsworth Ixii, f. 42V, from the evidences of Sir Francis Wortley 
in 1637, Carlton box, no. 38. 


Anno ab incarnacione Domini 1235 incepit hec convencio ad 
,estum sancti Martini inter Radulfum de Horbiry et Thomam filium 
Gregori[i] de Houerum, scilicet quod predictus Radulfus dimisit et 
concessit predicto Thome usque ad terminum sexdecim annorum pro 
decem solidis illi datis pre manibus unum assartum infra divisas de 
Saltonstall cum edificiis desuper plantatis et cum omnibus .pertinenciis 
scilicet quod dicitur Trageheastrod et totam terram sine retinemento 
quam Petrus Rauene tenuit in Saltonstall excepto orreo domini; illi et 
heredibus suis tenend[a] et habend[a] de predicto Radulfo et suis 
heredibus libere et quiete et pacifice cum omnibus libertatibus com- 
muniis et aisiamentis infra villam de Saltonstall et extra tante terre 
pertinentibus excepta assartacione et donacione et vendicione nemoris, 
solvendo annuatim predicto Radulfo vel suis heredibus duos solidos et 
iijjoT denarios scilicet medietatem ad festum sancti Oswaldi et medie- 
tatem ad festum sancti Martini pro omnibus serviciis et demandis. Et 
predictus Radulfus et heredes sui predicto Thome et suis heredibus 
predictam terram cum pertinenciis ubique et contra omnes homines 
usque ad prescriptum terminum scilicet xvj. annorum warantizabunt. 
Hiis testibus, Johanne de Tornil, Jordano Taleuaze, Michaele Taleuaze, 
Henrico de Hiperun, Ada obtricario, Yuone clerico de Miggelay, 
Henrico filio Gregori[i] de Houerun, et multis altis. 


The interest of the Horbury family in Saltonstall is also shown in nos. 
153, 170. 


(xvii) SOWERBYSHIRE 


The district known as Sowerbyshire consisted of about 
sixteen vills including Sowerby itself, from which it took its name, 
and Halifax. Of these vills eight are mentioned in the Domesday 
survey as berewicks of the manor of Wakefield. Their assessment 
was Halifax, 6 carucates ; Heptonstall, 2 carucates ; Langfield, 4 
carucates ; Midgley, 4 carucates ; Sowerby, 6 carucates ; Stansfield, 
2 carucates ; Wadsworth, 4 carucates ; and Warley, 4 carucates ; 
a total of 32 carucates. 


It has been shown in Chapter I (pp. 21, 25) that earl Hamelin 
gave lands in Sowerby and Sowerbyshire to his daughter Isabel in 
frank-marriage ; that she subsequently exchanged them for land 
in Sussex with her brother the sixth earl; and that the manor of 
Sowerby formed part of the dower of the sixth earl’s widow after 
his death in 1240. There is a record that the sixth earl granted a 
rent of 30s. in frankalmoin from the vill of Sowerby to Norton 


1 Watson, Halifax, p. 76. 


234 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


priory, co. Chester, to maintain a pittance for the soul of Alice his 
niece,t who was buried there ;? and in 1240 orders were given to 
assign to countess Maud 20s. rent elsewhere to compensate for the 
rent of 30s. due to the priory.’ 


170. Agreement between William earl de Warenne and Ralph and 
Thomas de Horbury, by which they quitclaimed to the earl all 
the chases which they claimed in Sowerbyshire, and demised to 
him all aeries of birds in their woods; and the earl granted to 
Ralph 3 acres of newly assarted land in Saltonstall, with licence 
to do in their lands and woods in Sowerbyshire as their prede- 
cessors were wont to do. They also quitclaimed to the earl their 
claim for herbage in his woods of Wakefield, for which the earl 
granted them herbage for their animals, except pigs, in. the wood 
of Wakefield and the vill of Horbury as far as the road leading 
from the hospital of Wakefield towards Dewsbury; all wood and 
pannage remaining to the earl; and should he wish to make assarts 
in the woods or deal with the land he would make a suitable 
exchange of herbage in accordance with the bovates which they 


held of him in Horbury. [? c. 1233-1240] 
Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 318. Abst. in Cat. Anc. 
Deeds, i, 35. 


Sciendum est quod ita conuenit inter dominum . W . comitem 
Warenn[ie] et Rad[ulfum] de Horebir’ et Thom[am] de Horebir’ 
scilicet . quod dicti Rad[ulfus] et Th[omas] dimiserunt et quietas- 
clamauerunt dicto . W . comiti Warenn[ie] et heredibus suis de se et 
heredibus suis totas chacias quas clamauerunt se habere in Sorbesir’ de 
omnibus bestiis saluag[iis]. Dimiserunt . etiam iidem Rad[ulfus] et 
Th[omas] dicto . W . comiti Warenn[ie] omnes aerias auium alias 
capiencium in boscis suis. Et sciendum est quod idem . W . comes 
War[ennie] concessit dicto Rad[ulf]o de Horebir tres acras de nouo 
assarto in Saltunestal. Et idem . W . comes War[ennie] concessit* dictis 
R[adulfo] et ThL[ome] de Horebir quod faciant de terris et boscis eorum 
in Sorbesire in omnibus sicuti predecessores eorum facere consueuerunt. 
Et super clamio quod predicti Rad[ulfus] et Th[omas] clamauerunt 
uersus dictum Will[elmum] comitem War[ennie] de herbagio in boscis 
suis de Wakefeud . remiserunt ei totum clamium eorum. Et pro illa 
quieta clamacione concessit dictus . W. comes War[ennie] dictis Rad- 
[ulfo] et Th[ome] de Horebir’ herbagium ad aueria sua exceptis porcis 
in bosco de Wakefeud . et villa de Horebir’ usque ad magnum cheminum 
quod tendit a hospitali de Wakefeud uersus Dewebire. Et omnis boscus 
et pessona remanent dicto . W . comiti War[ennie] et heredibus suis 


1 She cannot be his niece Alice countess of Eu, who was buried overseas 
(Complete Peerage, new ed., vi, 165) ; and she was probably a daughter of 
his sister Ela, who married secondly William Fitz William (p. 20 above). 

2 Cal. Close Rolls, 1323-27, p. 245, when the rent was in arrear ; cf. 
Cal. Ing. Misc., 11, no. 679. A sum of 30s. from Sawarby (given under co. 
Chester, but evidently Sowerby) appears in the priory’s income at the 
Dissolution (Mon. Ang., vi, 317). 

3 Close Rolls, 1237-42, p. 232. 

+ Inserted above the line. 


SOWERBYSHIRE 235 


quietus de dictis Rad[ulfo] et Th[oma] et heredibus eorum ad libitum 
suum faciendum. Et si ita euenerit quod dictus . W. comes War[ennie] 
uel heredes sui voluerint de dictis boscis assartare dare uel terram illam 
ad commodum suum assidere . licebit ille illud facere absque contra- 
dictione dictorum Rad[ulfi] et Th[ome] uel heredum suorum . faciendo 
eis excambium in alio loco certo et conpetenti de herbagio ad aueria 
sua secundum extencionem bouatarum eorum quas de eodem . W . 
comite War[ennie] tenent in Horebyr’. 


Seal: white wax; pointed oval, c. 14 x c. % in.3 damaged; not 
armorial; a motto containing the word SVM. 


The two members of the Horbury family were Ralph son of Thomas de 
Horbury and Thomas son of William de Horbury who made an agreement 
about their rights in Horbury in 1206-18 (no. 156). It is likely that their 
agreement with the earl was made at a later date, probably in the same 
period as his agreement with John de Thornhill (no. 171). 


171. Agreement between William earl de Warenne and John de 
Thornhill, by which John granted to the earl all beasts and birds 
taken on his land in Sowerbyshire to be kept by the earl’s foresters, 
provided that the latter did no injury nor exacted food or hospi- 
tality from his men; and the earl granted to John and his heirs 
licence to do their will in all theirlands and woods of Sowerbyshire, 
and to take five stags in grease and five hinds in season within 
his own fee in Sowerbyshire by view of the earl’s foresters. 
Should John’s dogs in hunting pass the bounds, he and his heirs 


should stop at the bounds and recall them. [1233-40] 
Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 317. Abst. in Cat. Anc. Deeds, 
Pagel h 


Hec est conuencio facta inter dominum Willelmum comitem 
Warennie . et Johannem de Tornhull’ . scilicet quod predictus Johannes 
dimisit et concessit dicto Willelmo comiti et heredibus suis imperpe- 
tuum omnes feras et aues que alias capiunt tocius terre sue in Sourebisire 
per proprios forestarios dicti comitis custodiendas . ita tamen quod 
dicti forestarii dicto Johanni et heredibus suis uel hominibus suis nullum 
penitus inferant grauamen uel iacturam . nec ab hominibus suis cibos 
extorqueant uel hospicia . nisi sponte et bona uoluntate sua ipsis 
exhibere uoluerint. Et predictus Willelmus comes et heredes sui con- 
cesserunt dicto Johanni et heredibus suis imperpetuum facere totum 
commodum et uoluntatem suam omnibus modis de omnibus terris et 
boscis suis de Sourebysire sine contradictione uel impedimento dicti 
comitis uel heredum suorum. Et etiam idem Willelmus comes concessit 
eidem Johanni et heredibus suis libere capere per annum quinque 
ceruos de pinguedine et quinque bissas in fermisione infra feodum suum 
proprium in Sourebisire per visum forestariorum dicti comitis. Scien- 
dum est etiam quod si forte canes predicti Johannis feras in sequendo 
diuisas preterierint . Johannes et heredes sui inde non causabuntur . 
set moram facient super diuisas et canes suos reclamabunt. His testi- 
bus . dompno Ric[ardo] tunc abbate de Rupe . dompno Waltero tunc 


236 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


abbate de Sallay . Johanne de Stutevill’ . Thoma filio Willelmi . Rad- 
[ulfo] de la Haye . Joh[anne] de Longevilerz . Adam de Narford’ . 
Robferto] de Stapleton’ . et aliis. 


Seal: yellow wax; oval, 1 x § in.; a conventional floral device; 
>< S. IOHAN[NIS . DE . TORN]HIL’. 


Indented, with the word CIROGRAFFUM cut through. 


Although Richard was abbot of Roche as early as 1229,1 Walter’s pre- 
decessor occurs as abbot of Sallay on 19 Oct. 1233,? which is therefore the 
earliest possible year for the agreement. 


John de Thornhill was the head of the family which held the manor of 
Thornhill of the honour of Pontefract.3 He was the son of Richard de Thorn- 
hill, and grandson of Jordan son of Assolf. In a case heard in 1563-64 a 
record was produced of a case heard in 1526-27, at which Henry Savile, the 
defendant against the crown, put forward successfully several evidences, 
including the present agreement and also a charter of Hamelin earl de 
Warenne granting to Jordan son of Assolf an inheritance in Sowerbyshire.* 
Jordan son of Assolf held the office of constable of Wakefield under earl 
Hamelin in the period 1174-78 (no. 71). The Thornhills are an instance, of 
which several parallels could be given, of a family which had tenures both 
of the honour of Pontefract and the manor of Wakefield. 


(xvill) WAKEFIELD 


172. Notification by Catardus, rector of Wakefield, that the tithes of 
earl de Warenne’s demesne of Wakefield, [? Earls] Heaton and 
Sandal [Magna] which he was holding did not belong to the 
church of Wakefield, but were deemed to belong to Lewes priory 
from its foundation; and that he was holding them at farm, not in 
the name of that church, but separately from the office of the 
chamberlain of Lewes, rendering yearly 2 marks of silver. 

[1202-18] 
Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed A. 14272.5 Lewes Chartulary, 
f. 298v; abst. in Y.A.J., xxxi, 307. 


Uniuersis has litteras visuris uel audituris Catardus persona 
ecclesie de Wakefeld salutem. Nouerit uniuersitas vestra quod decime 
de dominico comitis Waren[nie] de Wakefeld et de Hetun’ et de Sandale 
quas ego teneo nunquam ad ecclesiam de Wakefeld aliquo iure specta- 
bant . sed a tempore fundacionis domus de Lewis ad eam spectare 
dinoscuntur. Et eas ad firmam non nomine eiusdem ecclesie sed 
singulariter de camera de Lewes tenui . reddendo inde annuatim nomine 
firme duas marcas argenti soluendas ad festum sancti Michaelis. Insuper 
tactis et sacrosanctis euangeliis iuraui quod nunquam in vita mea 
questionem aliquam prefatis priori et conuentui super predictis decimis 


 ViG.HS Vorks,, ii; 180. 

2 Sallay Chartulary, ii, 193. 

> For a detailed account of the family see Y.A.J., xxix, pp. 286-321. 

* Watson, Halifax, p. 87. 

° The left hand side is torn away ; missing words are taken from the 
Chartulary text. 


WAKEFLELD 237 


mouebo. Et ius eorum quod habent in predictis decimis ubicumque 
opus fuerit protestabor. Et in huius rei testimonium presenti scripto 
sigillum meum apposui. Hiis testibus W[illelmo] . comite War[ennie] . 
Osberto Giffard Angerer’ de Freisseinuill’! . Willfelmo] de Liuet . 
Robert[o] persona de Sandale . magistro Gileberto de Norfolc’ . Johanne 
de Playz? Henr[ico] de Wakefeld Johanne presbitero et aliis. 


Seal missing. Endorsed : de Hettun et Sandale . and xj. 


Anker de Frescheville, the third witness, died in 1218; see the sixth 
earl’s confirmation to Kirklees priory (no. 89), which was witnessed by four 
of the witnesses to the present charter. 


ADDENDUM 


A NOTE ON EMLEY 

While this volume was passing through the press it was 
noticed that in the Hatton Book of Seals? there is the transcript 
of a charter (no. 464), by which William FitzWilliam confirmed to 
Byland abbey privileges throughout the ‘terrura’ of Emley, 
reference being made to the bounds of his park in the time of 
Henry [II] and of his own father, whose charter was mentioned. 
The date can be fixed as 1191-c. 1200. If this charter is genuine— 
and there is no reason to suspect it, though caution is necessary as 
there are several documents purporting to be charters issued to 
Byland abbey by members of the FitzWilliam family which are 
undoubtedly fabrications—it proves that an interest was held in 
Emley by William son of Godric, the grantor’s father. That would 
negative the suggestion made at p. 21” above that Emley passed 
to the FitzWilliam family by reason of the marriage of William 
FitzWilliam to Ela daughter of earl Hamelin. 


1 Fremuill, Chartulary. 

2 Missing in original ; Playy, Chartulary. 

3 This MS. is being prepared for publication ; and the charter will be 
printed in full. 

+ For the possible interest held in Emley by Godric: see E.Y-C., 11, 
pp. 335-6. 


CHAPTER V. 


THE STYLES OF THE LORDS OF THE HONOUR 
AND NOTES ON THEIR OFFICIALS 


The charters printed in Chapter II show a variety in the 
way in which the lords of the honour were described. An exami- 
nation of the nine original charters issued by the second earl shows 
that in four he was described as ‘Willelmus (or W.) comes de 
Warenna’; in three as ‘Willelmus (or W.) de Warenna comes 
Sudreie (or Suthreie)’; in one as ‘Willelmus comes Suthreie’; and 
in one as ‘Willelmus comes’. The remaining charters, not origi- 
nals, show a similar variety, with the additional variations of 
‘Willelmus de Warenna comes’, and (in the genitive case) “Willel- 
mus comes Warenne’; his wife being described as ‘Ysabel comitissa 
de Warenna.’ 


In the eight original charters issued by the third earl, seven 
have ‘Willelmus comes de Warenna,’ either written in full or with 
the abbreviations War’ or Waren’, and one has ‘Will’ de Warenna 
comes’. In the remaining charters, not originals, the style 
“Willelmus comes de Warenna’ occurs in all except two, where the 
style is (in the genitive case) ‘Willelmus comes Warennie! (or 
Warren’).’ It can be deduced, therefore, from those of his charters 
which are printed in the present volume, and which include all 
the originals found to be available, that the third earl used the 
style ‘comes de Warenna’ with a great degree of consistency, and 
that the Surrey style does not occur in any of them. 


The only two charters of the fourth earl, William son of 
king Stephen, which deal with lands of the honour of Warenne, 
have the style “Willelmus comes Warennie’ and ‘Willelmus comes 
de Waren{na]’. A collection of his charters dealing with his other 
lands, of which the details are given in Appendix C in Chapter I, 
shows that the majority have the Warenne style in conjunction 
with his comital styles of Boulogne and Mortain—‘comes Bolonie 
et Warennie et Moritonii’ (in varying order). The Surrey style 
never occurs. 


With regard to earl Hamelin, in the five original charters 
issued by him and another in which he was the grantee, five have 
‘Hamelinus (or H.) comes Warennie,’ in the genitive case, in three 
of them ‘Warennie’ being written in full, and one has ‘Hamelinus 
comes de Warenn’.’ In his other nineteen charters the style is 
‘comes Warennie’, usually in an abbreviated form, except in four 


1 No. 45, his charter written in full in an original imspeximus by John 
‘comes Warennie’ in 1315. 


STYLES OF THE LORDS OF THE HONOUR 239 


where it is ‘comes de Warenna’. In none of his charters printed 
in the present volume does the Surrey style occur ; but he used 
that style in a charter to the abbey of Saint-Bertin at St. Omer 
and on his seal (see below). In two original charters issued by his — 
wife, countess Isabel, she used the Warenne style in the genitive 
case. It must be supposed that it was in her right that her two 
successive husbands held the rank of an English earl. 


Only a selection of charters issued by their son William, the 
sixth earl, is printed here. Of his five originals' four have the 
Warenne style in the genitive case, in one of them ‘Warennie’ 
being written in full; and the other has ‘Willelmus de Waren’ 
comes Surregie filius Hamelini comitis et Isabelle comitisse.’ 


Consideration must also be given to the descriptive styles of 
the earls when they witnessed charters, especially royal charters. 
The details given in Chapter I (pp. 7, 8) show that the second 
earl was described in charters of Henry I and Stephen as earl of 
Surrey, but far more often as ‘comes de Warenna’ or ‘comes 
Warenn’,’ examples being also given of ‘comes Willelmus de _ 
Warenna’ and ‘Willelmus de Warenna comes’; in seven charters 
of Henry I, of which a list is given in Appendix B, his name occurs 
without any comital style. The usual description of the third and 
fourth earls and of earl Hamelin was ‘comes de Warenna’ or ‘comes 
Warenne (or Warennie).’ 


The first question which presents itself is the precise signi- 
ficance of the style ‘comes de Warenna’ or ‘comes Warennie.’ It 
was clearly the style of an English earl and not of a Norman 
count, and a good example of one of the various ways in which 
an English earl of the twelfth century could be described. In his 
consideration of the earldom of Arundel in the reign of Stephen, 
Round showed that it afforded an example of the use of all the 
four possible varieties of an earl’s title, being taken “(1) from the 
county of which the bearer is earl, (2) from the capital town of that 
county, (3) from the earl’s chief residence, (4) from his family name.’ 
It is the last of these which explains the Warenne style—for the 
first earl before his creation as earl of Surrey was known as William 
de Warenne, as his father Rodulf was known as Rodulf Warethne 
or de Warenna, taking the name from the hamlet of Varenne in 
Normandy.’ The earldom of Derby can, perhaps, be cited as the 
closest parallel. The styles ‘comes Derbeie’ and ‘comes de Ferrariis’ 
were used more or less indiscriminately. The style “comes de 
Ferrariis’ is familiar, and at first usual, from the time when the 
earldom of Derby was created by Stephen. Towards the end of 
the century a charter was issued by ‘Willelmus de Ferrar[iis] comes 
Derbfeie]’, which has the clause ‘pro anima Willelmi comitis de 


1 These include two original agreements (nos. 170-1) in Chapter IV. 
2 Geoffrey de Mandeville, p. 320. 

3 See pp. 1, 2 above. 

+ Complete Peerage, new ed., iv, pp. 191 et seqg., especially pp. 195n, 
197n. 


240 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Ferrar[iis} patris mei’. In this instance the place Ferriéres in 
Normandy, like Varenne, gave its name to the family. But, un- 
like Warenne, the latinized form seems to have been used in the 
ablative case only ; a ‘comes Ferrariorum’ would be unfamiliar. 
So much so that at a later date Thomas earl of Lancaster used on 
his seal the legend Ss’ : THOME : COMITIS : LANCASTRIE : LEYCESTRIE 
: ET : FERRARIIS, the last title being equivalent to earl of Derby.? 


The next point is to determine the actual earldom held by 
all the earls who used the family style of Warenne. And in this 
connexion Round, in the passage quoted above, added that “‘the 
earl and his county were essentially correlative ; nor was it then 
possible to conceive an earl unattached to a county.” There is no 
doubt that the first three earls were earls of Surrey, though for the 
second and third holders the usual description was by the family 
name. The fourth earl, William son of king Stephen, and the 
fifth earl Hamelin, the successive husbands of Isabel daughter and 
heir of the third earl, never appear to have been described in 
English records as earls of Surrey ; but for the former? there is an 
interesting reference by Torigny describing him as ‘comes Surreiz, 
id est de Warenna’ (p. 17” above) ; and in one of his charters to 
the abbey of Saint-Bertin at St. Omer the latter is styled ‘Hamel- 
inus Dei gratia Surreye et Gwaregne comes’ (p. 45” above), and 
to another his seal bore the legend SIGILLVM : HAMELINI : COMITIS : 
DE SVRREIA.4 There need, therefore, be no hesitation in supposing 
that the earldom which they held was that of Surrey. This earldom 
was inherited by William the sixth earl. He did not abandon the 
Warenne style ; and the legends on his seal are, on the obverse 
SIGILL’ WILL’I : DE [WA]RENNIA : COM[ITIS DE SV]RREIA ; and on 
the reverse SIG[ILL’ WILLELMI] COMITIS DE : WARENNIA.® Similar 
legends occur on the seal of the seventh earl. There was evidently 
an inherited desire to retain the Warenne name, reminiscent of 
the time when William de Warenne the first was known by his 
family name before he was created earl of Surrey.’ Indeed these 
legends suggest that although there were not two separate earl- 


1 Complete Peerage, new ed., iv, p. 194n. 

2 Ibid., p. 203. The seal was attached to the Barons’ Letter to the 
Pope (Ancestor, vi, 192). 

3 In his case he held the comtés of Boulogne and Mortain ; and his 
style ‘comes Bolonie et Warennie et Moritonii’ (see p. 48 above) exemplifies 
the double meaning of comes as count and earl. 

* Note to charter no. 67 above. 

> B.M. Cat. of Seals, i, no. 6526. 

6 Ibid., no. 6527 (in 1254) ; also on the Barons’ Letter to the Pope 
(Ancestor, vi, 191). 

7 A charter of Henry I, Whitsuntide 1108 (Hist. Ch. York, iii, 32 ; 
Farrer, Itinerary of Henry I, no. 213) has a witness clause which includes 
eee Roberto comite de Mellent et Henrico comite de Warwyc et Willelmo 
de Warrenn et ceteris comitibus Anglie.. Here William de Warenne the 
second, witnessing with other English earls, is described in a simple manner 
_as his father was before him. For other examples of this, without any comi- 
tal style or indication that he was an earl, see Appendix B above. 


STYLES OF THE LORDS OF THE HONOUR 241 


doms a duplicated form of the same earldom of Surrey had become 
established.1 


A point which is relatively unimportant is the method to 
be used in translating these various styles into English ; but it is 
one which has to be considered for the English summaries forming 
the headings to the charters of the lords of the honour in Chapter 
II. Such a style as ‘Willelmus de Warenna comes’ can be trans- 
lated without undue hesitation as ‘William de Warenne, earl [of 
Surrey]’. The principal difficulty is with the style ‘Willelmus (or 
Hamelinus) comes Warennie (or de Warenna)’. It would seem to 
be an error to speak of an ‘earl of Warenne’ for the twelfth century; 
and the choice resolves itself into ‘earl de Warenne’ or ‘earl 
Warenne.’ The former of these has been preferred, principally 
because it preserves more precisely the early and more usual form 
of the surname.’ 


The place Varenne, from which the surname was derived, 
appears in the two latinized forms of Warenna and Warennia.? 
The twelfth-century evidence suggests that usually the latter 
was used when the name was in the genitive and the former 
when in the ablative case.4 But there appears to have been no 
consistency, for an original charter of the fourth earl was witnessed 
by ‘Reinaldo de Warennia’, written in full.® 


§2. NOTES ON THE OFFICIALS 


In Sussex the lords of the honour had their own baronial 
sheriff, who is described as sheriff of Lewes in a charter issued by 
Reginald de Warenne, c. 1148 (no. 50).6 Among those who held 
the office in the twelfth century, and are mentioned in the present 
volume, are Peter, who occurs in the period 1106-21 (nos. 15, 16) ; 
Hugh, c. 1118-c. 1130 (no. 17 and note) ; William, c. 1130-1138 
(no. 20) ; Guy in 1147, who can be identified with Guy de Mence- 


1 This duplicated form is shown even more emphatically in the crea- 
tion in 1451 of John Mowbray, in the lifetime of his father the duke of 
Norfolk, as ‘comes Warenne et Surr[eie]’ (Complete Peerage, new ed., ix, 608; 
text in Lords’ Reports on the Dignity of a Peer, v, 277; a reference kindly 
supplied by Mr. G. H. White). 

? It is outside our present purpose to attempt a discussion of ques- 
tions arising from the preposition ‘de,’ the use of which in the early middle 
ages was normal ; see for several relevant points Appendix A ‘The particle 
“de”’ in titles’ in Complete Peerage, new ed., vi, pp. 689-92. 

3 The form Warethna occurs in the eleventh century (p. 1 above and 
note to charter no. 1). 

4 “Warennie’, in the genitive, written in full in original charters in 
nos. 55, 81, 86 ; ‘Warenna’ in the ablative, similarly in nos. 7, 12, 17, 18, 20 
etc. Ata later date, as the seals of the sixth and seventh earls indicate (see 
above), ‘Warennia’ in the ablative was an authentic form. 

5 Brit. Mus. Facsimiles, no. 37. 

® Also Pain the sheriff who occurs in 1185 was described as sheriff of 
Lewes (S.R.S., ii, pp. 52-3). 


242 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


court, a tenant who became a monk at Lewes ;! Adam, 1147-48 
(nos. 49 note and 50) ; and probably another William in the period 
1154-59 (p. 51). In a mandate addressed by the second earl to 
Hugh the sheriff ‘ceterisque suis villicis’ he ordered that certain 
complaints should be made to him ‘si in patria fuero vel meo 
vicecomiti’ (no. 17). 


Although generally speaking, as it has been pointed out, 
baronial sheriffs belong ‘to an early phase of English feudalism”? 
the sheriff of Lewes, like the baronial sheriff of Holderness,? still 
remained as an official in the thirteenth century. Hugh de Plomp- 
ton, ‘then my sheriff’, witnessed a Sussex charter of William, 
sixth earl de Warenne.* It is significant that to that charter 
the earl’s steward was the first witness, the sheriff occupying a 
subordinate place, which shows that then, as was in all proba- 
bility the case in the preceding century, the steward was the 
principal administrative officer. A charter of the third earl, 
addressed ‘omnibus vicecomitibus et prepositis et omnibus minis- 
tris suis et omnibus baronibus et hominibus suis Francis et Anglis’ 
(no. 46), may perhaps suggest that in his time there were baronial 
sheriffs for other portions of the honour besides Lewes. And 
certainly there is a record of the earl’s sheriff of Wakefield, William 
son of Raven—the earliest recorded official for the Warenne lands 
in Yorkshire—who in the period 1138-47 was so addressed by the 
third earl in a charter informing him and future sheriffs of Wake- 
field and others of his confirmation of land in one of the places 
within the manor of Wakefield (no. 31). But there is no further 
reference to an official so styled ; and it can be supposed that the 
office there was discontinued. 


With regard to the stewards the evidence suggests that 
there was a chief steward appointed for each of the large areas of 
the honour. Thus in Norfolk Wimer and his family, giving the 
only example of any hereditary descent in the office of steward 
in the honour of Warenne, had responsibilities for the lands of 
which the caput was Castle Acre. Wimer held land in Gressenhall 
and other places of William de Warenne at the Survey, and was a 
benefactor of Castle Acre priory. His son Roger and the latter’s 
son William also filled the office of steward. Wimer lived well into 
the twelfth century, and witnessed as steward a charter of the 
second earl to the priory, c. 1130 (no. 22); and Roger son of Wimer 
was addressed as steward by the same earl in another charter, 
c. 1130-1138 (no. 24). The fee passed by marriage to a branch of 


1 P.R.O. Anc. Deeds A. 15531-2, cited at no. 33 note, the former being 
witnessed by Guy the sheriff and the latter by Guy de M’cecurt, each with 
William his son ; and, for his becoming a monk, A. 15542 (S.R.S., ii, 63). 

2 F. M. Stenton, First Century of English Feudalism, p. 66. 

2 EY .C.2 Vi, ead 

* Cat. Anc. Deeds, iii, no. A. 4114 ; Lewes Chartulary, LA (ote 
ii, 27). 


NOTES ON THE OFFICIALS 243 


the family of Stuteville.1 But the office ceased to be hereditary ; 
in 1222-26 Richer de Trunch occurs as steward, evidently for the 
Norfolk lands (no. 98), and William de Mortemer in 1238-39.? 


For Sussex there was an official definitely described as the 
earl’s steward in that county, c. 1215,? possibly the same as. or 
possibly distinct from the official described as the steward of 
Lewes, 1257-58.4 In the thirteenth century and later the adminis- 
tration of the lands in Sussex appears to have been combined with 
that of the lands in Surrey ; for in 1241 Warin de Kingeston, de- 
scribed as formerly steward of the lands which had belonged to 
earl de Warenne in those two counties, was ordered to produce his 
rolls for the purpose of an estimation of the value of the lands ;° 
and in 1320 a charter of the eighth earl has a reference to his steward 
of Surrey and Sussex.® 


It is natural to suppose that there was a chief steward in 
charge of the Warenne lands in Normandy up to their loss in 1204; 
but the only reference available is to Eustace, who occurs as the 
second earl’s steward there, 1118-38 (no. 27). 


The following details relate to the stewards in Yorkshire 
down to the early years of the fourteenth century. They are subject, 
however, to two qualifications. First, the evidence is often insuffi- 
cient to decide whether there were separate chief stewards for the 
honour of Conisborough and the manor of Wakefield; and, secondly, 
it is often difficult to differentiate in the case of the manor of Wake- 
field between the chief steward and the manorial steward who 
presided at the ordinary meetings of the manor court. On the 
first point, it must be noticed that in 1174-78 Otes de Tilly was 
described as the earl’s steward of Conisborough ; and this may 
suggest that there was a separate chief steward of Wakefield; but 
in other instances a man who is described as the earl’s steward 
witnessed his charters some of which related to lands of the honour 
of Conisborough and some to lands of the manor of Wakefield ; 
and this suggests that he was the chief steward for all the lands in 
Yorkshire. Moreover, Matthew de Shepley was described by the 
sixth earl as his steward in Yorkshire ; and Ralph de Horbury, a 
later steward, had a release from the seventh earl of all receipts 
of the earl’s whole land in Yorkshire. In the following century, 
in 1330, the eighth earl addressed a letter to Sir Simon de Baldres- 


1 For an account of the fee held by Wimer and his descendants see 
H.K.F., iii, pp. 395 et seg., where there are references to the Castle Acre 
charters pd. in Mon. Ang., v, pp. 51-2. 

2 Bracton’s Note Book, no. 1243. William Spriggi, described as the 
earl’s steward of Gimingham, c. 1210-c. 1225 (no. 91m above), was probably 
an under-steward in Norfolk. 

3 Lewes Chartulary, f. 9V (S.R.S., i, 1). 

+ Ibid., f£. 207 (Cambridgeshire Portion, p. 10). 

5 Close Rolls, 1237-42, p. 284. Similar mandates were addressed to 
five other officials evidently stewards, in respect of their bailiwicks ; of 
these Adam de Nerford was probably a steward in Yorkshire (see below). 

6 Lewes Chartulary, f. 32 (S.R.S., i, 59). 


244 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


toun ‘steward of his lands in the north.’! The phrase ‘de honore 
meo de Euerwyk sira’ in a charter of earl Hamelin (no. 56) may 
suggest that he regarded his Yorkshire possessions as having a 
comprehensive unity. On the second point, there is some evi- 
dence, as the later details will show, that a man may have held the 
office of manorial steward of Wakefield both before and after he 
had filled the office of chief steward. 


THE, CHIEF STEWARDS IN YORKSHIRE 


BURNELLUS. As Burnellus, dapifer of earl de Warenne, 
witnessed a confirmation by Henry de Lascy to Pontefract priory, 
ante 1177.2 It is not unlikely that he was the Burnellus de Aumenil 
or de Meinillo who witnessed charters of countess Isabel, 1164-79 
and 1189-1202, and a Kirkburton charter in 1198 (nos. 54n, 65, 
158) ; and the Burnellus de Aumanvill who granted land in Kirk 
Smeaton and Elmsall in 1170-80.? 

OTES DE Titty. As the earl’s steward of Conisborough 
witnessed earl Hamelin’s charter to St. Mary’s, York, in the 
period 1174-78 (no. 71). It is probable that he was the successor 
rather than the predecessor of Burnellus as steward. He married 
Mabel daughter of William son of Raven, and was living in 1188 ; 
an account of him is given in the introduction to the Neufmarché 
fees in Chapter III. 

WILLIAM DE LIveET. As steward witnessed a Kirkburton 
charter, also witnessed by earl Hamelin and the earl’s son William, 
which can be dated 1198 (no. 158) ; also a charter of earl Hamelin 
relating to Thorne and Hatfield shortly before 1202 (no. 76) ; 
two charters relating to Shitlington and Horbury, c. 1196- 1202 
(nos. 152-3, in the former being described as the earl’s Ak 
and a Rishworth charter not earlier than 1202 (no. 168).4 With 
no descriptive style and in a junior position witnessed charters of 
earl Hamelin, 1164-96 and probably c. 1190-95 (nos. 69, 75), and 
a Conisborough charter, probably c. 1166-1189 (no. 124); also 
with no descriptive style, but as the first witness or the first lay 
witness, two charters relating to Braithwell, 1196-1201 and c. 
1200-c. 1210 (nos. 118, 121) ; and also a charter relating to Little 
Midgley not later than 1212 (no. 155). Witnessed a charter of the 
sixth earl when Thomas de Horbury had succeeded him as steward 
(no. 90) ; this charter being also witnessed by his son William de 
Livet the younger, who witnessed with him the later of the two 
Braithwell charters. 


1 Wakefield Court Rolls, v, 162; cf. also the description of John de 
Doncaster in 1305, noted below. 

2 E.Y.C., iii, no. 1530, dated c. 1160-1177. The earlier limit can be 
taken as 1164, as there was no earl de Warenne in the period 1159-64. 

> -Thid,, nos l78z, 

4 It is at least doubtful whether he was the William the steward who 
witnessed an agreement relating to the church of Normanton, [?] 1177-86 
(no. 163), and may have been the steward of the prior of Lewes. 


CHIEF STEWARDS IN YORKSHIRE 245 


In 1200 he was a knight on an inquisition ;! and in the same 
year William Livet and Custance his wife were plaintiffs in a plea 
apparently relating to the vill of Rotherham.? Custance was the 
daughter of Roger son of Richard de Wickersley ;? and by this 
marriage William Livet? obtained an interest in Hooton, which 
acquired the distinctive name of Hooton Levett, and an interest 
in the advowson of Roche abbey, which were inherited by his 
descendants.? In 1242-43 Custance Livet held two fees in Pick- 
burn and Hooton Levett of the honour of Mauley.® 

THOMAS DE HorsBury. As Sir Thomas de Horbury, the 
earl’s steward, witnessed a Kirkburton charter (no. 159), and as 
this was also witnessed by Jordan and Eustace his brothers he can 
be identified as the eldest son of Matthew de Horbury, whom he 
succeeded 1188-96, living in 1206 and probably dying not later 
than 1218; see the introduction to the Horbury section in Chapter 
IV. As the sixth earl’s steward witnessed his confirmation charter 
to Kirklees priory between 1202 and the latest possible date of 
1218 (no. 89); and as the last witness was John de Plaiz, des- 
cribed as clerk, the latter must have filled the office of steward 
later than Horbury. Also witnessed as steward another of the 
sixth earl’s charters (no. 90); and a Braithwell charter early in 
the thirteenth century (no. 122). 

It can be suggested that Horbury succeeded Livet as steward 
c. 1202-05, possibly after the deaths of earl Hamelin and countess 
Isabel ; and for reasons given under John de Plaiz it is unlikely 
that he was steward later than c. 1210. 

JOHN DE PLaiz. Witnessed as clerk when Horbury was 
steward (see above) ; and with no description witnessed in a 
junior position a Wakefield charter, also witnessed by the sixth 
earl (no. 172). As the sixth earl’s steward witnessed an agreement 
between members of the Horbury family, apparently after the 
death of Thomas de Horbury and so not earlier than 1206 (no. 
156) ; three charters relating to Old Lindley, 1206-18 (nos. 160-2) ; 
an Ossett charter (no. 164) ; and one relating to Barkisland (see 
the Halifax section in Chapter IV). The evidence of a Rishworth 
charter witnessed by William de Livet as steward (no. 168), com- 
pared with two of the Old Lindley charters witnessed by Plaiz as 
steward, shows that there was no great interval between their 
tenure of the office. It is therefore unlikely that Plaiz became 
steward later than c. 1210. He had been succeeded as steward by 
1218-19 (see below) ; but was living in 1222-26, when he witnessed 


1 Rot. Cur. Regis, ii, 165. 

2 Curia Regis Rolls, i, 189 ; and cf. p. 285, and iii, 74. 

3 In 1175 Roger de Wickersley and Jordan his brother owed 10 marks 
for right of 2 k.f. which Roger de Tilli was holding of Henry de Lascy ; 
payment was made in 1177 (Pipe Roll 21 Hen. II, p. 169 ; 23 Hen. IT, p. 70). 
Richard father of Roger de Wickersley was Richard son of Turgis, a co- 
founder of Roche abbey (Hunter, South Yorkshire, i, pp. 265, 277). 

* It is uncertain whether this was William the elder or younger ; 
chronological considerations suggest the latter. 

> Hunter, op. cit., pp. 265, 269. 

& Bk. of Feées,.p. 1099. 


246 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


a Norfolk charter of the earl (no. 98), and at a later date (see 
below). 


He was doubtless a member of the Plaiz family which held 
tenancies of the honour of Warenne in Sussex, Norfolk and Suffolk;} 
and it is likely that he was the John, a clerk, who with his brother 
Hugh, also a clerk, are described as uncles of Hugh son of Ralph 
de Plaiz in the witness clause of a Sussex charter issued by the 
latter to Lewes priory ;2 if so, he was a son of Ralph de Plaiz the 
elder.? 


MATTHEW DE SHEPLEY. In a plea heard at Westminster in 
1219 relating to Dalton, par. Rotherham, reference was made to 
Matthew de Shepele, the earl’s steward, and the other bailiffs of 
the court of Conisborough.! As the earl’s bailiff® witnessed a Fixby 
charter, early 13th cent. (no. 142). As steward witnessed a charter 
of the sixth earl relating to Wakefield (no. 92); and as his 
steward in Yorkshire, with John de Wakefield, clerk, was ordered 
by the earl to pay the tithes of his rents in their bailiwicks to 
Lewes priory (no. 91). As the earl’s steward witnessed a charter 
relating to Holdsworth (no. 150). It can be suggested that the 
approximate period for his tenure of the office of steward was 
Co 21S ce L225: 


With no description, and in a junior place among the 
witnesses, witnessed charters relating to Bilham and [?] Horbury 
(nos. 108, 154). 


It is probable that his land in Shepley, Upper Cumberworth 
and elsewhere constituted half a knight’s fee, held as a subordinate 
tenure of the knight’s fee of the manor of Wakefield which appears 
to have descended to the family of Burgh from Adam son of 
Swain ; see Chapter IV, §1. He also held land in Dewsbury 6 arg 
witnessed a charter as a knight in 1219.7 


As Matthew son of Hugh de Sepelaya he witnessed a charter 
to Byland abbey relating to Denby in Upper Whitley ;° and his 
father was Hugh son of Harding, whose death can be placed 
between Michaelmas 1188 and 1189.° The descent in the male 
line from Matthew son of Hugh, through his son Thomas, to John 
de Shepley living in 1334 is given in two pleas of that year.7° He 


b HAE, dy 834. 

2 Lewes Chartulary, f. 116; S.R.S., ii, 37, where the date assigned, 
c. 1140, should be amended to early in the 13th cent. 

3 See the account of the family in Complete Peerage, new ed., x, 535, 
this charter being cited (p. 5377). 

4 Byracton’s Note Book, no. 26; and cf. Rolls of the Justices in Eyre for 
Yorks., Selden Soc. vol. lvi, p. 76. 

5 See the note to charter no. 142 on this point. 

6 Rolls of the Justices...... , ut sup., p. 139. 

7 Mon. Ang., v, 505. 

8 Yorks. Deeds, vi, no. 159. 

9 Ibid., no. 176; E.Y.C., iii, no. 1812; Pipe Roll 34 Hen. II, p. 91; 
jG Sy ao BE 

10 Kirkstall Coucher, nos. 370-1. For later generations see Morehouse, 

Kirkburton, p. 101, 


CHIEF STEWARDS IN YORKSHIRE 247 


also had a son Matthew the younger and a daughter Avice, wife of 
Nicholas de Bellun the younger, about whom some notes have 
been given in Chapter IV, §1. 

WILLIAM DE KurcHuM. As Sir William de Kurchum, the 
earl’s steward, witnessed a Braithwell charter, c. 1230 (no. 123). 

ROBERT THE CLERK OF BLyTH. As Sir Robert the clerk of 
Blida, the earl’s steward, witnessed a gift of John de Bradewell, 
clerk, to Lewes priory of land in Braithwell, also witnessed by Sir 
John de Plaiz and Sir Hugh, rector of Wakefield, and others, 
probably c. 1234-12441 As four of the witnesses also witnessed 
the charter witnessed by Kurchum as steward the date is not much 
later; and, as Hugh may have been an earlier rector than Richard 
de Lethebroch, instituted on 5 June 1237,? the balance of evidence 
suggests that Robert was the steward of the sixth earl, who died 
in 1240, especially as the latter’s successor, the seventh earl, was 
then only about nine years of age. 

RICHARD DE CALTON. As Richard de Caltfon], steward of 
countess Maud (who had the manor of Hatfield in dower), wit- 
nessed an agreement made by her relating to Balne in 1241 (p. 148). 

ADAM DE NEIRFORD.® As steward of countess de Warenne 

(who died in 1248) witnessed a grant by Thomas de Horbury to 
Sir Ralph de Horbury of land in Horbury.* 
RALPH DE HorsBury. John de Warenne, seventh earl, 
released to Ralph de Horbury, his steward, all receipts of his whole 
land in Yorkshire from Easter 1248 to 29 Aug. 1249 and again to 
2 April 1251.5 As steward of John de Warenne, together with 
Walter de Ludham, steward of Edmund de Lascy, witnessed a 
charter of John de Wridlesford relating to Fixby ;° and as Sir 
Ralph de Horbury, the earl’s steward, witnessed a release to John 
de Warenne of right in land in Sowerby.’ 

He was the son of Thomas son of Matthew de Horbury whom 
he succeeded probably not later than 1218; see the introduction 
to the Horbury section in Chapter IV. 

WILLIAM OF Lonpon.® As Sir William de Lond’, steward of 

1 Lewes Chartulary, f. 294V; Y.A.J., xxxi, 300; the heading gives 
‘in tempore Alberti prioris’, which if correct provides the limits of date. 

a Reg. Gray, p. 717. 

3 For an account of him and his family (which took its name from 
Narford, Norfolk), and other stewardships which he held, see W. P. Baildon, 
Baildon and the Baildons, i, pp. 301 et seg. He was sheriff of Yorkshire in 

1246. 

* MS. Dodsworth Ixii, f. 3Y. For another reference to him (1233-40) 
see above, p. 236. 

5 MS. Dodsworth Ilxii, f. 21V. 

6 Yorks. Deeds, iv, no. 188, cited in the introduction to the Fixby 
section in Chapter IV. Walter de Ludham was steward of Pontefract, c. 
1240-46 (Pontefract Chartulary, i, 316). 

7 Cat. Anc. Deeds, iv, no. A. 6921. 

8 Probably the William de London, clerk, inst. to a moiety of the ch. 
of Kirkburton, 25 Feb. 1246-7, on the presentation of the pr. and c. of Lewes 
(Reg. Gray, p. 100) ; and as rector of Kirkburton witnessed a charter to By- 
land abbey (Yorks. Deeds, vi, no. 166). On 23 Jan. 1266-7 he resigned any 
right in the ch. of Dewsbury, to which he had been presented by the earl, 
who recognized the right of the prior of Lewes to present (Reg. Giffard, p. 20). 


248 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


earl de Warenne, witnessed a quitclaim to Sir Ralph de Horbury 
of land in Bilham (no. 109”) ; a charter of John le Fleming grant- 
ing land in Clifton, par. Dewsbury; and a grant to John seventh 
earl de Warenne of land in [West] Ardsley. also witnessed by 
Ralph de Horbury.2~ Among the witnesses to. a Cumberworth 
charter were Sir John de Hoderode, steward of Pontefract,® 
William de London, steward of Wakefield, and mag. Osbert rector 
of Silkstone.4 The evidence suggests that he was a later steward 
than Sir Ralph de Horbury and earlier than John de Hill, with the 
‘extreme limits of date 1251-60. 

There was a William of London (de Londinits), clerk, des- 
cribed as son of Reginald de Staninges, who held land in Heacham, 
Norfolk, occurring in 1239, 1251 and 1269 : and who, described as 
rector of ‘Berton’ witnessed an agreement with the prior of Lewes 
at Heacham in 1242.5 If ‘Berton’ is Kirkburton his identity with 
the steward would be probable. But the latter (if identical with 
the rector of Kirkburton) was not instituted to a moiety until 
1246-7 ; and there is no indication, though this is not impossible, 
that he had been instituted to the other moiety at an earlier date. 

JOHN DE Hitz. As steward of earl de Warenne witnessed 
an agreement by the master of the Hospitallers in Yorkshire 
relating to land in the parish of Halifax, 2 Aug. 1260.° In an in- 
quisition in 1307 it was stated that land in Alverthorpe, par. 
Wakefield, lay waste before it was bought about forty years ago 
in the time of John de Hille the steward.? Witnessed as steward a 
charter relating to Billingley, par. Darfield.® 

Tuomas Cooke. As steward witnessed a charter of John, 
seventh earl, to the canons of Woodkirk, the first witness being 
Ralph de Horbury (no. 134”). On 14 Oct. 1265 it was found that 
Thomas Coc seized land on behalf of earl de Warenne in Rudding- 
ton, co. Nottingham. He was presumably the Thomas Cok’ or 
Cock,’ rector of Ruddington at his death shortly before 20 June, 
1293.19 It is uncertain whether he can be identified as the Sir 
Thomas Cok, steward, in whose time pleas of courts of the soke 
of Wakefield were held from Michaelmas 1284 to Michaelmas 1285.1 


1 Kirklees Muniments, no. 7. It is unlikely that John le Fleming lived 
much longer than the year 1254 (E.Y.C., vii, p. 199). 

2 Cat. Anc. Deeds, iv, no. A. 7138. 
3 1246-58 is given as the period of his tenure (Pontefract Chartulary, 
i, 316). ; 

, Hunter, South Yorkshire, ii, 251. The last was inst. to the ch. of 
Silkstone, 12 Nov. 1253 (Reg. Gray, p. 118). 

5 Lewes Chartulary, Norfolk Portion, pp. 9, 25-9, 45; and Cat. Anc. 
Deeds, ii, no. A. 3026. 

6 Miscellanea, Y.R.S., i, 61, from MS. Dodsworth viii, f. 178. 

7 Wakefield Court Rolls, ii, 82. 

8 Monkbretton Chartularies, p. 87; the grantor was Hugh Malet of 
Micklebring, par. Braithwell (hon. of Conisborough). 

9 Cal. Ing. Misc., i, no. 850. 

10 Reg. Romeyn, i, pp. 21, 125, 314. 

11 Wakefield Court Rolls, i, 181. A Thomas Coke, formerly rector of 
Dewsbury, was dead shortly before the hearing of a case in Hilary term 
1292-3 (Y.A.J., xx, pp. 403-4). 


CHIEF STEWARDS IN YORKSHIRE 249 


RICHARD DE HEypoNn. In the Hundred Rolls of 1274-75 
there are accounts of the abuses and oppressions charged against 
Richard de Heydon,! described as formerly steward of the earl of 
Surrey, the period after the battle of Evesham being mentioned ; 
the spheres of his activities including places and tenants within 
both the honour of Conisborough and the manor of Wakefield.? 
From this it can be deduced that he was the earl’s chief steward 
for his lands in Yorkshire. 


As steward of earl de Warenne witnessed charters relating 
to Thornhill, in one of which mention is made of land hired up to 
Easter 1271 ;3 and one relating to Wakefield. As steward of 
Wakefield he witnessed a quitclaim to Fountains abbey of land 
in Old Lindley ;> and reference is made to him as a former steward 
in the Wakefield manor court roll of 18 Oct. 1274.8 Possibly he 
had been manorial steward before becoming chief steward. 


ALEXANDER Lucas. Named as steward in the manorial 
court of Wakefield in 1273 and at various dates to May 1277.7 In 
1279 a jury found that he, described as steward of earl de Warenne 
in the court of Wakefield, had been taking improper amercements.$ 
In 1284, when Sir Thomas Cok was manorial steward, an inquiry 
was postponed till the coming of Alexander Lucas into those 
_parts.® Described as steward of earl de Warenne witnessed a 
quitclaim to Lewes priory of the advowson of Kirkburton follow- 
ing a case before the justices itinerant in 1279-80 ;1° and two 
charters relating to Thornes, near Wakefield. On 25 Oct. 1286 
the sheriff of Lincolnshire was ordered to cause a coroner for that 
county to be elected in place of Alexander Lucas, who was steward 
in co. York of John de Warenne, earl of Surrey, so that he could 
not attend to the office of coroner.!2 It seems likely that he had 
been promoted from the office of manorial steward to that of 
chief steward in Yorkshire, c. 1280. 


PETER. As steward of earl de Warenne was the first witness 
to a charter of the same series as above relating to Thornes, 19 
July 1293.18 Perhaps the same man as Peter de Lundo or Lound 


1 Also Haydon and Hedon. He may-have taken his name from 
Heydon, a member of the honour of Warenne in Norfolk. 

2 Rot. Hundr., i, pp. 109b, 110a, 113b, 127b, 128a, 133a. The Wake- 
field entries are given in translation in Wakefield Court Rolls, i, introd. pp. 
Vili-x. 

3 Yorks. Deeds, ii, no. 492 ; iv, nos. 513-4, the witnesses including Sir 
John de Horbury and Sir John de Horbury the coroner. 

4 Cat. Anc. Deeds, iv, no. A. 9065. 

Fountains Chartulary, i, 136. 

Wakefield Court Rolls, i, 81. 

Ibid., i, pp. 84, 87, 107, 157. 

Y.A.J., xxviii, 395, citing Assize Rolls 1057, m. 15; 1064, m. 13d. 
Wakefield Court Rolls, i, 183. 

10 Lewes Chartulary, f. 300 ; abst. in Y.A.J., xxxi, 311. 

11 Cat. Anc. Deeds, iv, no. A. 6260 ; and v, no. A. 12069. 

12 Cal. Close Rolls, 1279-88, p. 404. 

13 Cat, Anc. Deeds, iv, no. A. 8489. 


os a U 


© 


250 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


who was manorial steward of Wakefield earlier than 1297 ;!} on 
12 March 1297-8 a defendant at the court there appealed to his 
rolls which were to be inspected.? A record in 1313 mentions the 
rolls of Peter du Lounde at the court held at Wakefield on 14 
Octe 1295" 

Str W. DE RouLeBy. At his request, described as steward 
of earl de Warenne, the archbishop of York granted the adminis- 
tration of the goods of Thomas Cock’, priest, deceased, on 28 
July 1293.4 Possibly the Sir William de Rollesby who had finan- 
cial responsibilities in connexion with the manor of Wakefield 
in 1274.° 

JOHN DE DONCASTER. As steward of earl de Warenne wit- 
nessed another charter relating to Thornes 12 April 1302.6 In 
the computus of 1305, giving the receipts from the tenants of 
Wakefield with its soke, a payment is recorded to him described 
as steward of the lands and tenements that belonged to John de 
Warenne, earl of Surrey, in co. York.’ Occurs as manorial steward 
of Wakefield, 1296 to 1298 ;§ and again in Aug. 1307, 1307-09 and 
1313-14.9 As steward of Wakefield witnessed a quitclaim to 
Nostell priory of land in Wilsick, near Tickhill, 13 Dec. 1313.1° 
The references suggest that he held the office of chief steward 
between two periods of office as manorial steward. 

Str JOHN DE NEVILLE. Named as chief steward (capitalis 
seneschallus), 25 Jan. 1306-7. 


With regard to those who held the office of constable of the 
Yorkshire castles in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, the 
details, as is shown by the following lists, are scanty. There appears 
to be no certain evidence to show that for the manor of Wakefield 
there were separate constables for the castles of Wakefield and 
Sandal ;!2 and in the list they have been combined. 


1 Wakefield Court Rolls, i, pp. 272, 307 ; and cf. later references in ii, 
pp. 55, 99, 107, 227. 
Tbid., ii, 29. 
Ibid., iii, 3 ; also manorial steward 25 July 1296 (cbid., iv, 192). 
Reg. Romeyn, i, 21 ; for Cock’ see above. 
Wakefield Court Rolls, i, pp. 92, 95, 97 ; and cf. p. 252. 

6 Cat. Anc. Deeds, iv, no. A. 8143 ; the second witness being German 
Filcock described as bailiff of the liberty. 

7 Wakefield Court Rolls, iii, 184. 

8 Ibid., i, pp. 237, 288 ; ii, 32. 

9 [bid., ii, pp. 100, 114, 174 ; ii, i William de Wakefield was manorial 
steward in Dec. 1306 (zbid., ii, 61). 

10 Nostell Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vesp. E. xix, f. 47. There are many 
references in the court rolls of later dates to the stewardship of John de 
Doncaster, evidently the same man ; and he was probably the man of the 
same name who became a justice of the Common Bench 5 June 1319 (Cal. 
Pat. Rolls, 1317-21, p. 344; cf. several references in the Patent, Close, and 
Fine Rolls and a short account in Foss, Judges, ili, 251). 

11 Wakefield Court Rolls, ii, 68. 

12 Such evidence as there is comes from a later date, and isnot conclusive. 
In 1240 after the sixth earl’s death only the castles of Sandal and Conis- 
borough are mentioned when the escheator was ordered to deliver them to 


ap WN 


CONSTABLES OF CONISBOROUGH 251 


CONSTABLES OF CONISBOROUGH 


Henry Picot. As constable of Conisborough witnessed 
earl Hamelin’s charter to St. Mary’s, York, 1174-78 (no. 71). 
His wife Lettice was evidently the daughter and heir of Elias de 
Bosville (nos. 103”, 104). 

WALTER DE DANEUELL’. As constable, presumably of 
Conisborough, witnessed a charter of earl Hamelin relating to 
Hatfield and Thorne, c. 1198-1202 (no. 76). It is probable that he 
took his name from the place of which the modern form is Denver, 
Norfolk.t 

Str BALDWIN DE HeErsy. As constable of Conisborough 
witnessed a charter relating to the church of Kirk Sandal dated 
9 Sept. 1230 (no. 129) ; and charters relating to Braithwell and 
Dinnington (nos. 123, 126). With no description witnessed charters 
of the sixth earl, 1202-24 and c. 1210-c. 1225 (nos. 92, 94). He held 
land of the manor of Wakefield in Old Lindley in respect of which 
he issued a charter, 1206-18 (no. 162) ; in the note thereto some 
details are given about him and his brother Malvesin de Hersy, 
who filled the office of constable of Tickhill, and their family. 

NIGEL Drury. Constable of the castle of Conisborough 
towards the end of the reign of Henry ITI. 


CONSTABLES. OF WAKEFIELD AND SANDAL 


JORDAN SON OF AsSSOLF. As constable of Wakefield wit- 
nessed earl Hamelin’s charter to St. Mary’s, York, in the period 
1174-78 (no. 71). He was the ancestor of the family of Thornhill.* 

GODFREY DE BEAuMOoNT. As Godfrey de Beaumont (de 
Bello Monte), constable of Sandal, witnessed a charter relating to 
Old Lindley, 1206-18, also witnessed by John de Plaiz, the earl’s 
steward (no. 161). Another charter, relating to Ossett, of the same 
period, also witnessed by Plaiz as steward, was witnessed by 
‘domino constabulario Godefrido de Attell’ (no. 164). It must be 
supposed that the latter was the same man as Godfrey de Beaumont, 
but there is no satisfactory clue to suggest a reason for alternative 
names. With no description Godfrey de Beaumont witnessed a 


the king’s nominee for custody (Close Rolls, 1237-42, p. 232) ; but in 1324 
the castles of Conisborough, Wakefield and Sandal, then delivered for 
custody, are mentioned apparently as separate entities (Cal. Fine Rolls, 
1319-27, p. 275). 

1 For land there, held of the honour of Warenne, see H.K.F., ii, pp. 
382-4 : and, for Robert son of Walter de Denver, ibid., p. 426. 

2 Rot. Hundr., 1, 109b. 

Poy es, KRIS, 207. 

4 There is a record of a gift of a much earlier date by a Godfrey de 
Bello monte to Lewes priory of tithe in Fulking [in Poynings hundred, 
Sussex]; this is included in the confirmation of the second earl (Lewes 
Chartulary, f. 13¥; S.R.S., i, 13) which though not a genuine charter (see 
no. 6 above) probably records a gift actually made. About 1} miles south 
of Fulking is a place named Atlingworth, where gifts were made to the priory, 
one of which, early in the 13th cent., was witnessed by William de Bellomonte 
(S.R.S., ii, pp. 50-5). This evidence is insufficient to suggest that for that 
reason ‘Attell’ was an alternative name for Beaumont; but it may lead to 
some surer.clue to prove what seems to be the fact. 


202 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


charter of the sixth earl relating to Wakefield, c. 1210-c. 1225 
(no. 92) ; and in 1234 was a party to a fine for a carucate of land 
in Criggleston (p. 191). 


WILLIAM DE LANGFELD. As constable of the castle of 
Sandal witnessed a charter of John, seventh earl, also witnessed 
by Thomas Cooke as steward (no. 134m). 


THOMAS DE SANDAL. Named as constable of Sandal castle 
in 1305,1 combining the office with that of head forester (see below). 


Besides the chief stewards and the manorial stewards of 
Wakefield there is a reference to a steward of Sowerbyshire. This 
is Henry, so described, who witnessed in a junior position a charter 
relating to Holdsworth, c. 1210-1225, the first witness being 
Matthew de Shepley, the earl’s steward (no. 150). Maynard 
brother of Elias de Rishworth, described as bailiff of Sowerby, 
who witnessed another Holdsworth charter of an earlier date (no. 
148), may have held the same office, for bailiff is a comprehensive 
term.? 


Much forest land lay within the bounds of the manor of 
Wakefield. Thomas le Ragged held the post of chief forester 
under the seventh earl ; and it was recorded that he and the earl’s 
steward after the battle of Evesham appropriated to the earl free 
chases within the bounds of Soothill, Hipperholme, Northowram, © 
Shibden, Norland and Rishworth without licence.* In the com- 
putus of 1305, mentioned above, Thomas de Sandal combined the 
constableship of Sandal castle with the head forestership of Wake- 
field, Sowerbyshire and Holmfirth at a wage of 7d. daily, a note 
being added that there were formerly three keepers (of the forests) 
who took for their wages 11d. daily ; under him were nine fores- 
ters and one paler (palicarius), specified by name and all receiving 
1d. daily, who were allotted to the forests of Sowerbyshire, Holm- 
firth, and Wakefield and its neighbourhood.‘ 


‘Among other minor officials in Yorkshire was Pain the 
water-bailiff (mararius) of Thorne, who was given land in Thorne 
by earl Hamelin (no. 70 and note to no. 130). Nor must Haregrim, 
the earl’s goatherd, whom the scribe of the Lewes Chartulary 
supposed was his carpenter, and who witnessed a Conisborough 
charter in earl Hamelin’s time (no. 124), be forgotten. 


Lastly, there are a few references to officials of the earl’s 
household. Of these the only one which invites any special interest 
is Osmund the dispenser, who as shown in charters issued by the 
second earl and his wife countess Isabel (nos. 19, 21) was entrusted 
with administrative work in Norfolk. He was still holding the 
office in the time of the third earl.® With regard to the chamber- 


1 Wakefield Court Rolls, ii, 184. 

2 On this point see N. Denholm-Young, Seignorial Administration, 
p. 32. 

3 Rot. Hundr. i, 127b. 

4 Wakefield Court Rolls, iii, 184. 

5 Lewes Chartulary, f. 33V (S.R.S., i, 63). 


CONSTABLES OF WAKEFIELD AND SANDAL 253 


lains it is unsafe to suppose that a man so described was the earl’s 
chamberlain. A charter of Osbert prior of Lewes! was witnessed 
by countess Isabel (daughter of the third earl) and by Edgar 
described as her chamberlain ; but another witness was Richard 
the chamberlain who was probably the chamberlain of the prior, 
and may be the Richard the chamberlain who occurs as a witness 
to a charter of earl Hamelin to the priory (no. 77). It is uncertain 
whether Burnellus the chamberlain, a witness to certain Sussex 
charters issued to the priory,? was the earl’s or the prior’s ; if he 
was the prior’s it is unlikely that he can be identified with 
Burnellus who at a later date was earl Hamelin’s steward in York- 
shire and appears to have been known as Burnellus de Aumenil 
or de Meinillo (see above). A certain Remigius Hospinell’, des- 
cribed as steward of the earl’s household, witnessed a Surrey 
charter of the sixth earl.3 


CORRIGENDA ET ADDENDA 


PAGE 34. Stapleton in Rot. Scacc. Norm., ui, pp. ccxvii- 
vii ”, has suggested that in the text of the charter of Beatrice 
daughter of William de Warenne pd. in Mon. Ang., vi, 171, the 
words ‘post mortem viri domini mei Radulphi’ should be amended 
to ‘post mortem viri mei Douni Bardulphi’; this seems likely, and 
in that event Ralph, the supposed second and otherwise unrecorded 
second husband of Beatrice, becomes a myth. 


PAGE 38. There is entered in the Lewes Chartulary (f. 239 ; 
Norfolk Portion, p. 20) a charter by which Walter de Grandcourt 
gave to the priory the churches of Harpley and Burnham Thorpe 
[Norfolk] ; the first two witnesses being William [second] earl de 
Warenne and Philip de Warenne. This was confirmed by the 
second earl (f. 33¥; S.R.S., i, 63). Walter’s charter gives an addi- 
tional reference to Philip de Warenne, and supports the suggestion 
that the latter can be identified with Philip, the ancestor of the 
Burnham family. 


PaGe 164. Miss K. Major has drawn attention to the like- 
lihood that P. de Melide can be identified with mag. Peter de 
Melide, a canon of Lincoln, who occurs 1173-82 (Reg. Antiquissimum, 
Linc. Rec. Soc., iv, 170). This supports the suggested amendment 
of date as 1179. 


1 Lewes Chartulary, f. 196V (Wilts. etc. Portion, p. 52). 
2 Ibid., ff. 69V, 80, 95 (S.R.S., i, pp. 121, 145, 175). 
3 Watson, Memoirs, ii, 63. 


254 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


CORRIGENDA TO EARLY YORKSHIRE CHARTERS, 
VOLUMES V—VII 


VOLUME V 


Pace 172, note 2, line 6. For ‘William’ read ‘Walter’. 
Miss N. G. Christie, who has noticed this error, has kindly informed 
me of her discovery that, although the entry in the printed BR. of 
Fees, p. 100, line 4, has ‘Willelmi de Cormayll’, the entry in the 
original MS. has the initial W. only (as, indeed, is given in Testa 
de Nevill, p. 69b). There is no doubt that W. stands for “W[alteri]’ 
and not ‘W[illelmi]’. : 


VOLUME VI 


Pace 48, note 7. Mr. G. P. Mander kindly forwarded a 
conclusive proof that Ralph Paynel did marry a member of the 
Ferrers family. This is a clause in a charter of Gervase Paynel, 
his son, to the church of Lichfield ‘pro animabus avorum meorum 
Robferti] de Ferar[iis] et Fulcodii Pag[anelli] et pro anima patris 
mei Rad{ulfi] et Willf[elmi] avunculi mei.’ Robert de Ferrieres 
here mentioned was earl of Derby and died in 1139. This charter 
was subsequently printed by Mr. Mander in a collection of Gervase 
Paynel’s charters in Staffs. Rec. Soc. (1941), p. 58. 

PAGE 49, line 10. Mr. Mander also pointed out (tbzd., p. 
50) that the date 1187 of Gervase Paynel’s charter to Tickford 
priory, although given in Mon. Ang., v, pp. 203-4, as ‘MC octo- 
gesimo septimo, rege Henrico filio Imperatricis regnante 33 H. IT’, 
must be wrong, for Simon earl of Northampton, the first witness, 
died in 1184 ; the charter was evidently issued several years earlier 
than 1187. 


VoLuME VII 


PAGE 35, line 2. For ‘sons’ read ‘sous’. 

PAGE 79, no. 35. As Geoffrey de Bocland, not here des- 
cribed as an archdeacon, had become one by 1198 (see E.Y.C., 
vi, no. 88) the date can be narrowed to 1195-98. 

PAGE 129, line 24. For ‘sciliect’ read ‘scilicet’. 

PaGE 131, no. 64. For the note read ‘The latest possible 
date is 1227, when Robert Vavasour, the third witness, was dead 
(see §7)’. 


INDEX OF SOURCES 


The numbers after each source are those of the charters. An asterisk denotes an original 
charter or a facsimile of an original. 


(a2) MANUSCRIPT SOURCES 


BRITISH MUSEUM 


*Add. Ch. 24634 y he Be sis a 86 
*Add. Ch. 24635 ar is . a S8 81 
*Cotton Ch. xi, 56 ait Aer a ca +9 32 
Cotton Ch. xvi, 321 AP ah aw se ae 5 
*Cotton Ch) xxx,17 hes ne ead me Rf a 95 
*Harl. Ch. 43C. 14 io _ Rs Ee a 76 
*Harl. Ch. 43C. 15 ae a9 ps me - 85 
Hart. Chi 57H: 32 nae zs i 45 
Add. MS. 36872 (Felley Chartulary) aie iy ¥ 118 
Add. MS. 37771 (Selby. Chartulary) gs ie te 133 
*Cotton MS. Nero C. iii oY age .. 00, 80 
Cotton MS. Tiberius C, xii (Fountains Chartulary) a 137, 140-143 
160-162, 168 
Cotton MS. Vespasian E. xix (Nostell Chartulary) o 1, 72,:73, 
een at: 136 
*Cotton MS. Vespasian F. iii, no. 1 <a - 4 
*Cotton MS. Vespasian F. xiii, no. 12 48 
Cotton MS. Vespasian F. xv (Lewes Chartulary) 6 9, 12- 20, 32-34, 
36-42, 49, 50, 52-56, 58, 59, 62-66, 77, 83, 87, 88, 91, 
110, 113, 114, 116, 117, 121-129, 157, 158, 163, 172 
Hath. MS. 9/0)... : 47 
Harl. MS. 2110 (Castle Acre > Chartulary) Si 21 -24, 43, 44, 98 
Lansdowne MS. 972 ‘ its et Pa 75 


PuBLICc RECORD OFFICE 
* Ancient Deeds— 


A. 308 130 
A, 316 131 
A. 317 171 
A. 318 170 
A. 340 i Mit. a's on me 124 
A. 2998 is ie te ae is st 42 
A. 5923 8 Ne mi ii i ae 83 
AD 10988> © «x: ae ay ™ f ai 12 
Ac1G008 94. a «neta a <S te 4] 
A. 14201 Sa is ie a ne he 36 
A. 14266... RY: ae Ae aes ne 144 
Bo142/0 2 a ae 36 at eis 55 
a © Dt poe ms ne ie ar he 172 
A. 14294... << hs ne a's se 18 
A. 15400... 3,0 ae an Pe bd 7 
A. 15401 aS rs as ae st si 88 
A. 15404... - a ne i ig 13 
A. 15405... as Be aca = oF 16 
A. 15406... sie sb ae is ie 20 
Ps ADAOT de she on < a: Be 14 
A, 15408... “e a a ae De 52 
A.. 154095 «. s ae os baa b's 17 


1 Possibly, but not certainly, the original. 


256 INDEX OF SOURCES 


PuBLic RECORD OFFICE 
*Ancient Deeds— 


A. 15410 ir a; . ¥ #3 a! 40 
A. 15411 ‘ fs a es foe hy 39 
A. 15412 aS % bp ee r: wy 15 
A. 15414 wr se ee ie a se ge 
A. 15520 > rr ~ Fe a aie 39n 
A. 15627 ae a ee at ae ts 35 
AA. 463 oe fe oh fe. a f 33 
AA. 464 a a he 10 
Cartulaire de la Basse- N ormandie, Ne i ot ey, ae 26 
Confirmation Roll, 2 Hen. VIII, Pee 4, no. 9 es md 5 
*Feet of Fines ‘€ ; Nee my 112 


Liber Niger Parvus fe ie is on ba 82 


BoDLEIAN LIBRARY, OXFORD 
MS. Dodsworth— 


Vili ze 70, 115, 119, 120, 133, 136, 146-150, 154 

1x ae abs ‘ 119 

lviii oe 166, 167 

Ixii > 68, 69, 108, 109 151- 153 155, 156, 164, 165, 169 

Ixxvi as . 30, 71 

CxXvill Pye sd ad 2 a is 145 

cxx B ae be He oe 3 os 135 

CXXVI1i ” ras - = Me 74, 138 

cxlvii Ae = a, oe oe oe ae 

clii 2 as he Eg is she 119 

*KIRKLEES MUNIMENTS a os 2, * Re 89 

MAGDALEN COLLEGE, OXFORD ty: “aE Se «. 96; 97 

*PARIS, BIBLIOTHEQUE NATIONALE ae Bes ay oa ve 

*RUFFORD ABBEY MSS. Fi ar Ae e me 132 

YORK, DEAN AND CHAPTER (Reg. Magnum Album) es =i 57 
YORKSHIRE ARCHAEOLOGICAL SOCIETY 

*Fixby MSS. 7 a fe = 3. 139, 159 

—_————— copy of original ae fe he es 167 

*Hornby Castle MSS. me a 3 lees < 111 

Woolley Park MSS. (Pontefract Chartulary) ve “zt 11 


(6) PRINTED SOURCES! 


Archaeological Journal, vol. 111 i a he a 84 
Bibliotheca Cluniacensis us + i 78 
Calendar of Patent Rolls, 1436- 41 oF ; wa = 25 
Close Rolls, 1234-37 .. a “f 79 
Monasticon Anglicanum A 30, 31, 71; 93, 134 
Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of London, 2nd Ser., vol. vi 67,92 
Register Corbridge (Surtees Society), vol. i : . 60, 61 
d’ Albon, Cartulaive Général de l Ordre du Temple ‘e 46 
Bernard and Bruel, Recueil des Chartes de l Abbaye de Cluny 3 
A. Deville, Cartulaive de l’ Abbaye de la Sainte-Trinité du Mont de 

Rouen : 1 
Sir G. Duckett, Charters and Records of the A bbey of Cluni a 72 
P. Le Cacheux, Chartes du Prieuré de Longueville 28 
H. J. Morehouse, History and Topography of the Parish of ‘Kirkburton 94 
Rev. John Watson, Memoirs of the Ancient Earls of Warren and Surrey 90 


1 This list only includes charters of which the text is entirely or mainly taken from a 
printed source. 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 


_The references in this and the following index are to the pages in the volume. 
Local and field names, entered under their actual spelling, are printed in italics. The phrase 
earl’s steward indicates a chief steward of one of the earls de Warenne. 


A., the clerk of Stainton, 165 
prior of Worksop, 165 
Aaron, the Jew, 143n 
Abingdon (Berkshire), abbot of, 29 
Acelin, -lyn, the priest, 100 
of Rouen, brother, 94 
Acharius, prior of Tynemouth, 165-6 
Acre, Acra : 
Hugh de, 130, 132, 136 
Ralph de, 78, 158 
and see Castle Acre 
Adam, 112 
the chaplain, 166 
of Hatfield, 176 
the clerk of Thetford, 159 
‘obtricarius’, 233 
the priest, 196 
prior of Pontefract, 211 
rector of Bolton-upon-Dearne, 
167 
of Kirkheaton, 216 
—— of Maltby, 167 
scriptor of charter, 188 
sheriff of Lewes, 51”, 97-8, 242 
son of Orm, 204, 230 
son of Peter, see Birkin 
son of Philip, see Shitlington 
son of Swain, see Swain 
Adwick, Hadwic, Henry de, 169 
ZElfhelm, 137 
Agbrigg, wapentake, 178, 179-80 
Aguillon, -un, Aguyllun : 
Richard, 122 
, Robert his son, 122 
Robert (de), 111, 117 
Ailsi, 221 
Aincurt, -e, tenancy in chief, 190 
Walter de, 58 
Ainley (Elland), Auenlay, Auunne-, 
Awnde-, 222-4 
grange of Fountains, 222 
Aisse. See Es 
Aissolf. See Assolf 
Alan, count of Britanny, 57n, 58 
Albert, prior of Lewes, 171, 247” 
Albineium, -inn’. See Aubigny 
Albo Monasterio, de, family, 35; and 
— see Blancmoster 
_ Ralph de, 133 
William de, 35n, 130 
and see Whitchurch 


Albus, Robert, 159 
Alcester (co. Warwick), abbey, 12 
Aldewurthe. See Holdsworth 
Aldholm. See Oldham 
Aldred, 195 
William nepos of, 119 
Alemanebiria. See Almondbury 
Alexander, 165 
IL, king of Scotland, 11, 229 
——, Joan his wife, see John 
(king) 
LII, pope, 108-9, 211 
the blacksmith, 166 
dean of Stamford and vicar of 
St. Andrew’s ch., 133 
mag., prior of Lewes, 122 
son of Alexander, 230-1 
Robert son of, 135 
Alfred, Alveredus, Alvredus, the 
clerk, 82 
the reeve, 100 
Alice, countess of Eu. See Henry 
count of Eu 
Alkeron’, Thomas de, 161 
Allendale, Lord, muniments of, 184 
Almeisnil, Elias de, 127 
Almondbury, Alemanebiria, Alman- 
biri, -nesbiry, Holmaesbiri : 
Gilbert the chaplain of, 193, — 
201, 231 
rector, see Nottingham 
Alneto, de. See Aunay 
Alric, Swain son of, 183”, 211; and 
see Swain 
Alta Ripa, Peter de, 196 
, Hugh his son, 196 
Altofts (Normanton), 226 
manor, wood, 227 
Aluric. See Carlessone 
Alveredus. See Alfred 
Alverthorpe (Wakefield), 248 
Amounderness (co. Lancaster), 10 
Amundi Villa. See Emanville 
Anfrid, the priest, 204 
Angiens, Angens, Ralph d’, 97 
Anglesqueville-sur-Saane (Norman- 
dy, pays de Caux), Anglice- 
villa, church, 52 
Anglicus. See Rainald 
Angulo, Hugh de, priest, 127 
Anisy (Normandy, dept. Calvados), 4 


258 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Anjou, adj. Andegavensis, -iensis : 
count of, see Geoffrey 
_ seneschal of, see Tours 
Anscher, William son of, 53 
Anselm, St., abp of Canterbury, 9x, 
; 41-2 
Anston, North (South Anston), 137-8 
Apolitus, Hugh son of, 167 
Appivilla, Richard de, 52 
Aquila. See Laigle 
Arches, Gilbert de, 224-5 
, Isabel his dau., wife of 
William Ruffus, 224 
——, Tiffany his dau., wife of 
Malvesin de Hersy, 224 
_ Ardingly (Sussex), Hardingueleia, 
church, 64, 72-3 
Ardsley, Erdeslaue, Erdis- : 
Adam son of Robert de, 207 
[?] John de, 207 
Nicholas son of Assolf de, 208 
Robert de, 198 
Thomas son of Robert de, 207 
Ardsley, West (Woodkirk), Erdeslau, 
-law, Erdis-, Herdislaw, 
83-4, 172, 178, 180”, 185-90, 
210n, 248 
Armitage Bridge, 194 
Armthorpe, Arnetorp, Hernoldes-, 
Hayreldesthorpe, chapel, 
86-7, 107-8 
John de, 187 
Thomas de, 226 
Arnulf, 45-6 
Gerbod brother of, 46 
Arques (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
ini ly23 
Arundel (Sussex), 467 
earl of, 25n 
earldom, 239 
Arundel, -ell : 
Richard, official of abpric of 
York, 219 
mag. Roger, kg’s justice, 174 
Ascelin, bishop of Rochester, 84 
Aslackby (co. Lincoln), 28x 
Assolf, Aissolf, Essolvus, Essulf, 
2062, 207 
Elias son of, 113 
John son of, 205-7 
, Eustace, John, Laurence, 
Michael, William, his sons, 
205-6 
——, Amabel his dau., wife of 
Roger son of Warin, 206 
——, his seal, 205 
Jordan son of, constable of 
Wakefield, 114, 206, 236, 
251 
Peter son of, 206”, 210n 
, Emma his wife, see 
Lascelles 
Richard son of, 206 


Assolf—continued 
Thomas son of, 206 
Aston (W.R.), Estona, 102, 137-8 
Atlingworth (Sussex), 251n 
Attell, Sir Godfrey de, constable [?] 
of Sandal, 229, 251 
Attleborough (Norfolk), 126 


Attlebridge (Norfolk), Atelesbrige, 


Attelesbregge, 91 
mill, 28, 90-1 
Aubigny, Albineium, Albinn’ : 
Nigel d’, 7, 9n 
, Gundreda his wife, see 
Gournay 
——, Roger his son, see Mow- 
bray 
William d’, kg’s butler, 79 
and see William earl of Chich- 
ester 
Auenlay. See Ainley 
Aughton (Aston), 137-8 
Aumenil, Aumanvill, Aumesville, 
de Meinillo, Burnellus de, 
101, 111, 220, 253; and see 
Burnellus 
Aunay, de Alneto, Ralph d’, arch- 
deacon of York, 174 
Austonley (Almondbury), 179 
Auzouville -l’Esneval (Normandy, 
pays de Caux), Osulfi Villa, 
church, 52 
Awndelay. See Ainley 
Aylmerton (Norfolk), 23x 


Baelon, Milo de, 75, 87 
Baildon, Mr. W. Paley, 199, 206n, 
226n 
Baker, Miss A., viiin 
Balan. See Ballan 
Balby, Ballebi, 138, 166, 168 
William de, 167, 174 
Balcombe (Sussex), Balecumbe, 88 
‘Cumcistra’, -siechtre, in, 88 
Balderstone, -reston, Sir Simon de, 
earl’s steward, 243-4 
Baldwin : 
bishop of Worcester, abp of 
Canterbury, 107 
the constable, 49n 
count of Flanders, 41” 
, Maud his dau., queen of 
England, 40-4, 55-7, 61 
, the younger, 45 
Baliol, Bailoil, -ol, de Balliolo : 
fee, 143” 
John, 35 
, Dervorguilla his wife, 35 
——, Cecily his dau., wife of 
John de Burgh, 35 
John, king of Scotland, 35 
Ralph de, 87, 91, 94 
Richard de, 75 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 259 


Baliol—continued 

Robert de, 191 

William de, 159 

and see Baxwol 
Ballan (Touraine), Balan, 124 
Balmer (par. Falmer, Sussex), Bor- 

gemera, 58-9 

Balne, 148, 177, 247 

Thomas the clerk of, 161 
Bamford, Thomas de, 200 


Barcombe (Sussex), Bercamis, 
-campe, Berecampa, 105-6 
church, 72-3 


manor, 28 
Orderic de, 87 
Bardolf, -ulf : 
barony, 35 
family, 28”, 35, 91, 159% 
Doun, Dodo, 34, 114, 253 
—-,. Beatrice. his - wife;  s¢e 
Warenne (William de, of 
Wormegay) 
Hugh, 95 
Hugh, kg’s justice, 122, 125, 
160 
Hugh, lord, 35, 147, 159 
Sir William (the younger), 6, 35 
, Juliana his wife, see 
Gournay 
William son of Doun, 34-5 
Barentyne : 
Drew de, 37” 
William de, 36 
, Joan his wife, see Blanc- 
moster 
Barkisland (Halifax), 201, 245 
Roger son of Assolf de, 201 
Barkston, Barkes-, (Sir) Robert de, 
Zid F220 
Barmer (Norfolk), 78 
Barnborough, -aburch, Barneberg, 
-burc, -burch, -burg, 98-9, 
115, 137-41, 147-56 
advowson, 148 
mill, 137 
Robert Picot the clerk of, see 
Picot 
Gossa de, 149 
, Louedei his wife, 149 
Barnby, Barne- : 
Alexander de, 187 
Hugh de, 187 
Richard son of Roger de, 187 
Barnoldswick, Cistercian monks at, 


Barnthorpe, Bernolftorp, 154-5 

Barsham (Norfolk), church, 79 

Bartholomew, 227 

Baseville. See Bosville 

Bassingbourn, Basyngburne, John 
de, 133 

Bath, adj. Battoniensis, bishops of. 
See Reginald, Robert 


Batley, Bateleia, 171 

Emma daughter of Hugh son 
of Orm de, 229-30 
, Assolf her son, 229-30 
Battle (Sussex), abbey, 5 

——., abbot of, see Walter 
Baumunt. See Beaumont 
Baxwol [? vecte Baillol], Ralph de, 

94 


Bayeux (Normandy), bishop of. See 
Odo 
Beauchamp of Bedford : 
barony, 214 
, heirs of, 214 
Simon de, 213 
William de, 213 
feria nis tau., wite: of 
Baldwin Wake, 213 
Beauchief abbey (co. Derby), 14, 19” 
Beaumont, Baumunt, de _ Bello 
Monte : | 
family (of Crosland), 194 
Godfrey de, the elder, 251n 
Godfrey de, constable of Sandal,. 
P32) 191 223,229, 201 
Henry de, earl of Warwick, 10, 
40, 55, 58-9, 240n 
——, Margaret his wife, see 
Geoffrey count of Mortagne 
=~ his) son; see Jtoger: €.; Of 
Warwick 
Hugh de, 127 
Ralph de, 113 
Robert de, count of Meulan, 9, 
46, 55, 57n, 62, 81, 240 
——., Isabel or Elizabeth his 
wife, see Hugh count of 
Vermandois 
——, his sons, see Robert e. of 
Leicester, Waleran count 
of Meulan 
Sir Robert de (of Crosland), 194 
Roger de, 126 
William de, 101, 158, 2517” 
William de (of Crosland), 194m, 
197 
Beaumont-le-Roger (Normandy, 
dept. Eure, arr. Bernay), 
lord of, 9 
Bec, Le (Normandy), abbey of, 6, 14n 
Becheswerda. See Betchworth 
Becket, St. Thomas, abp of Canter- 
bury, 13, 14, 26, 96 
Bedford, archdeacon of, see Laurence 
barony, honour, 214; and see 
Beauchamp 
Bedfordshire, 3n, 51, 214n; and see 


Chicksands, Dean; also 
Buckinghamshire 

Beil, Robert de, 166 

Belfoc, Ralph de, steward of 


Reginald de Warenne, 31 


260 HONOUR OF 


Belléme, Robert de, 7, 13 
, William his son, see 
Talvas 
Bellencombre (Normandy, dept. 
Seine-Inf., arr. Dieppe), 
Belencombria, -cumbre, x, 
stb REE PS bar one bey 
castle, 3,15, 16, 26, 81 
church, 126-7 
prévét, see Warin 
priory, 9, 81 
toll of, 80 
William de, 101 
Bellew, de Bella Aqua, Adam de, 189 
Bello Monte, de. See Beaumont 
_ Bellou-en-Oulme (Normandy, dept. 
Orne), 1837 
Bellun, Beslun, family, 183 
Geoffrey de, 183 
, Diana his wife, 183 
Nicholas de, 1837 
Nicholas son of Geoffrey de, 
183, 247 
, Avice his wife, see Shepley 
Belvoir (co. Leicester), priory, 28” 
Bendish Hall (Essex), manor, 48 
Benedict, St., rule of, 121 
the serjeant, 173 
Bentley (Emley), grange of Byland, 
184 


Beralddus, the priest, 91 
Berc. See Southburgh 
Bercampe, -camis. See Barcombe 
Bergrave, Henry de, 175 
Berhg’, Adam, Alexander and 
Robert de, 170 
Berkshire, 3n 
and see Abingdon, Reading, 
Windsor 
Bermondsey (Surrey), abbey, 5 
Bernard : 
the cook, 52 
mag., 165 
prior of Holy Trinity, York, 196 
rector of Normanton, 227 
Bernolf, Swain son of, 199 
, Henry, Richard and 
Walter his sons, 199, 200 
Bernolftorp. See Barnthorpe 
Berton, [?] Kirkburton, 248 


Bertram, Bertinus, prior of Durham, - 
166 


Bescam, mag. Robert de, 160 
Beseville. See Bosville 
Beslun. See Bellun 
Betchworth (Surrey), Becheswerda, 
-wrtha, -wurd, church, 123 
manor, 99, 100 
Beuzeville-la-Giffard (Normandy, 
dept. Seine-Inf., arr. Dieppe, 
cant. Bellencombre), Bosa- 
villa, 147 
Walter the priest of, 127 


WARENNE 


Beverley, 189 
canons of, see Heimeric, Milo 
Bevern bridge. See Chailey 
Bewick (Holderness), -wich, 189 
Bigod, Bigotus : 
Hugh, earl of Norfolk, 11, 16 
Gundreda his wife, see 
Roger earl of Warwick 
===, Ue ee hoser: li valtiaas 
his sons, 11 
Hugh (the younger), earl of 
Norfolk, 25 
——, Maud his wife, see Marshal 
Hugh, 136 
John le, 177n 
Ralph le, 177 
Roger, earl of Norfolk, 122 
Roger (the younger), earl of 
Norfolk, 25n, 177 
Roger, 57” 
Bilham (Barnborough), Bile-, Byle-, 
137-40, 149, 155-6, 212-3, 
246, 248 . 
Hugh de, 155-6 
Billingley (Darfield), 248 
Bingley, Bingelaia, -eia, -eya, Roger 
son of William de, 193, 229- 
al 
Binham (Norfolk), priory, 31 
, Chartulary, 28x, 31n 
Birkin, -cin, Byrkin, 228 
family, 206”, 209, 210” 
Adam son of Peter de, 174, 2057, 
206, 209-11, 214, 217 
John de, 189, 230-1 
——, Isabel his dau., wife of 
Robert de Everingham, 186 
Peter de, 231 
Roger de, 210, 212, 214-5, 217, 
230-1 
, Maud his wife, see Touche 
Thomas de, 186 
Birkinrowd, 231 
Birstall, Burstale, 1457 
Richard de, the clerk of, rector 
of moiety of Kirkburton, 


218-20 

, J. his brother, 219 
Birthwaite, Birk-, Birketheit, 

Brictwait : 


Adam de, 174, 231 

John de, 230-1 

Peter de, 231 

Thomas de, 230-1 
Birton. See Burton, Kirkburton 
Birum. See Byram 
Biskinton [in error], 34n 
Blaauw, Mr. W. H. ,41-2, 54”, 567 
Blachelana, -land, 203, 204 
Blackbourn (Suffolk), hundred, 30 


Blacker (Criggleston), Blakeker, 
210-2 
Hall, 210 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 261 


Blacker—continued 
family, 210n 
Blacker (Upper Hoyland), 210 
Bladewrth, 169 
Blaminister. See Whitchurch 
Blancmoster, Blanmoster : 
fee, 37 
family, 36, 37n; and see Albo 
Monasterio, de 
Sir William de, 35”, 36, 37 
, Bertreya his dau., 36 
——, Joan his dau., wife of 
William de Barentyne, 36 
and see Easton 
Bleak Low (nr. Kirklees), 204 
Blenvile, Blevilla, Bernard de, 157-8 
Blida. See Blyth 
Blois, William de, son of kg Stephen, 
4th earl of Surrey and de 
Warenne, countof Boulogne 
and Mortain, 13-18, 26-7, 
37n, 47-51, 70n, 97-100, 
115-6, 130, 150, 152, 159, 
238-41 
——, Isabel his wife, see 
Warenne (3rd earl) 
——, his clerk and chancellor, 
see Eustace 
——., his steward, see Boreham 
——., his styles, 16, 17, 47-50, 
99, 238-41 
Blosseville (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Inf., nr. Bourg-Dun), Broce- 
villa, 81 
Walter de, 80-1 
Blosseville (Normandy, not identi- 
fied), Blosevile : 
Jordan de, 80, 91, 93-4, 99 
William de, 127 
Blosseville-Bonsecours (Normandy, 
arr. Rouen), Blovilla, 53 
Aubrey de, 52 
Blyth (co. Nottingham), Blida, 142 
honour, 142” 
priory, 141, 142n 
Robert the clerk of, earl’s 
steward, 247 
Bocland, Geoffrey de, archdeacon, 
254 


Bodes, Osmund de, 53 
Bohun, Humphrey de, 12 
— —, Margaret his wife, see 
Henry earl of Huntingdon 
Bois. See Boys 
Bolonia. See Boulogne 
Bolton Percy, church, 145 
Bolton-upon-Dearne, rector of. See 
Adam 
Boreham (Essex), 51 
Turold de, steward of William 
de Blois, 18, 47, 51 
Borgemera. See Balmer 
Bosco, de. See Boys 


Bosville, -villa, Base-, Bese-, Boese-, 
Bosa-, Bose-, Buse-, 
family, 147-8 
Elias son of Hugh de, xi, 28, 71, 
98-9, 115-6, 141, 147, 149- 
54, 156-9, 168-70 
——, Lettice his dau., wife of 
Menry ePicot, 115-6, 147, 
152-3, 158, 251 
, his seal, 159 
Fulk de, 147, 149-50 
Hugh de, 147 
Robert de, 70-1, 147 
Thomas de, 148, 162, 176 
William de, steward of Henry 
du Puiset, 148 
and see Beuzeville 
Boteler. See Butler 
Bothal (Northumberland), barony, 
191 
Botild, Richard, 166 
Bouehorne bridge. See Chailey 
Boulogne, Bolonia : 
count of, 24; and see Blois 
(William de), Dammartin, 
Eustace, Flanders, Stephen 
comté, 240n; and see Tingry 
honour of, 16-18, 47-9, 51 
Faramus of, 16, 47, 48, 50-1 
——, Sibyl his dau., wife of 
Enguerrand de Fiennes, 51 
William son of Geoffrey of, 50 
Bourg-Dun (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
iit. att) Dieppe; cant: 
Offranville), Dunum, 80-1 
Boxley (Kent), -lee, abbot of, 121 
Boys, Bois, de Bosco, Bossco : 
Henry de, 166 
Michael de, 126 
Reginald de, 111, 113-4, 129, 172 
Bracquetuit (Normandy, dept. 
Seine-Inf., arr. Dieppe, cant. 
Tétes), Brache-, Bracke-, 
Braketoit, 80-1, 126-7 
Walter the priest of, 81 
Bradenstoke (Wiltshire), priory, 159 
Bradleia rode, 191 
Bradley (Huddersfield), Brade-, 195, 
222 
grange of Fountains, 222 
mills, 194-5 
Bradley, Great (Suffolk), ixn 
Bradmere (Hatfield), Brath-, Brade- 
mare, -mars, Brathmere, 
water, 82, 83n, 134 
water-bailiffs of, 134 
Braithwell, Brad-, Brade-, Brayth-, 
Breith-, ix, 25”, 137-8, 147, 
155, 163-71, 244-5, 247, 
251 
church, 86, 102-3, 137, 163 
manor, 171 
market and fair, 171 


262 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Braithwell—continued 
priest at, 137 
vicarage, 165 
Richard the clerk of, 157, 164-5 
William the clerk of, 170-1 
Richard the priest of, 165 
family, 155 
Aytrop son of William son of 
Gerbod de, 155 
Gregory de, 167 
Henry son of Robert son of 
Gerbod de, 155, 169-71 
John de, clerk, 247 
Richard son of Aytrop de, 155 
Thomas son of Aytrop de, 155, 
171 
William de, 171 
and see Gerbod 
Bramley (Braithwell), -laia, -lei, 
Bramelia, -leia, ix, 137, 147, 
163-9, 226 
tithes of, 164-5 
Richard the reeve of, 169 
Richard de, 167 
Bramwith, Bramyth, Otes and 
William de, 161 
Bramwith, Sand or South (Stain- 
forth), 137 
Branche, family, 23” 
Peter, 23n 
Richard, 130 
William, 77 
Brathmere. See Bradmere 
Breauté, Faukes de, 29 
——, Margaret his wife, see 
Curcy 
Breithwell. See Braithwell 
Brémule, battle of, 8 
Breretuisell. See Briestwistle 
Bretton, family, 184 
Swain de, 190 
Bretton, Monk. See Monk Bretton 
Bretton, West (Sandal Magna), 139, 
179-82, 184, 190, 211 
Bretville, Breteuil, Brettvile : 
Eustace de, 8 
Robert de, 134 
Breus, Bruosa, Sir John de, 228 
—, Margaret his wife, 228” 
——, Joan his dau., wife of Sir 
William de Scargill, 228” 
‘Brichtwethau’, -wiueton, Brictiue- 
ton, 146 
Brictwait. See Birthwaite 
Brictwi. See Serapere 
Bridgeford, East (co. Nottingham), 
46n 


Briestwistle (Thornhill), Breretuisell, 
211 
Michael de, 196-7, 217 
, Maud his wife, see Wridles- 
ford 
—., Denise his dau., wife of 


« 


Briestwistle—continued 
John de Hodroyd, 197 
Brighton (Sussex), Bristelmiston, 
Brittelmeston, 33, 86 
church, 72-3 
Brinkburn (Northumberland), 
priory, 11, 151 
Brionne (Normandy, dept. Eure, 
arr. Bernay), Briothna, 53x 
Guy de, comes, 53, 54n 
Bristelmus, 72 
Britanny, duke of. See Conan 
counts of. See Alan, Stephen 
Brito : 
Matthew, 190 
, Avice his wife, 172, 190 
Rainald son of, 83-4, 185,190 
Richard, 14n 
Robert son of Matthew, 110, 
172, 185, 189-90 
William son of Matthew, 172 
and see Maigno, Meinfelin 
Brittelmeston. See Brighton 
Briwere, William, 122, 125 
Brocevilla. See Blosseville 
Brodsworth, Broddesworde, Brodis-, 
Adam de, 174-5 
, Vincent his son, 174 
Brotherton, 19x 
Broughton in Amounderness (co. 
Lancaster), 48 
Bruncosted, Osbern, 52 
Bruosa. See Breus 
Brydges, Sir S. E., 41 
Buck, Buc, family, 159” 
Razo de, 101 
Ursellus de, 159 
, Racius and Ursellus his 
sons, 159 
Buckinghamshire, 3n, 39, 51, 214” 
and Bedfordshire, sheriff of, 39 
and see Tickford, Wendover, 
Wolverton 
Budell’, Hugh de, 131 
Builli : 
Hugh de, 168 
John de, 168 
Otes de, 169 
and cf. Busli 
Bundi, Robert, 208 
Bungay (Suffolk), priory, 11 
Burchard, 99, 100 
Burdl’, Hugh, 159 
Burgh : 
fee, 134, 182-4 
family, 182, 246 
Hubert de, kg’s chamberlain, 
earl of Kent, 34-5, 122, 157 
——, Beatrice his wife, see 
Warenne (William de, of 
Wormegay) 
——, Margaret his wife, see 
William (the Lion) 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 263 


Burgh—continued 

, Margery his dau., 35 

John de, 35 

John son of John de, 35 

, Cecily his wife, see Baliol 

——, Dervorguilla his dau., 
wife of Sir Robert Fitz- 
Walter, 35 

——, Hawise his dau., wife of 

Sir Robert de Grelley, 35 

, Margery his dau., 35 

Thomas de, 183n 

, Sarah his wife, see Neville 

Thomas de (younger), 183 

Sir Thomas son of Philip de, 


182-3 
Thomas son of Thomas de, 
182, 184 


_ Burgundy, count of. See Rainald 
Burnellus : 

the chamberlain, 253 

earl’s steward, 244, 253 

and see Aumenil 
Burnham, Burne-, family, 38, 95, 


Cecily dau. of Philip de, 39 
Frar’ de, 128 
Geoffrey de, 114 
Philip I, IL and III de, 38-9, 95, 
122, 253 
Reginald son of Philip de, 38-9, 
95 
——, Rose his dau., wife of 
Matthew de Gournay, 39, 
95 
Walter son of Philip de, 38, 39x 
William son of Philip de, 38-9, 
95 
Burnham Thorpe (Norfolk), 38-9 
churches, 38, 253 
Burstale. See Birstall 
Burton, Birton, Burgtun : 
Sir John de, 185 
Robert (son of William) de, 131, 
; 218, 220 
William de, 218, 220 
, Goditha his wife, 220 
William son of Robert de, 218 
and see Kirkburton 
Burton-on-Trent (co. Derby), abbey, 
137 
Bury St. Edmunds (Suffolk), abbey, 
30, 32, 48, 51 
, abbot of, see Samson 
Buseville. See Bosville 
Bush, de Busliaco : 
Roger de, 24n, 58, 138-9, 155 
——, Beatrice his sister, 23 
Thomas de, 81 
and cf. Builli 
Butler, Boteler : 
family (of Skelbrook), 226 


Butler—continued 
(Sir) Hugh (le), steward of 
Pontefract, 187, 226 
Butterbusk (Warmsworth), -busc, 
107-8 
Byland abbey, 184, 211, 237, 246, 
247n 
charters, 184 
grange, see Bentley 
Byland, Old, monks at, 7 
Byleham. See Bilham 
Byram (Brotherton), Birum, 217 
Adam de, 217 
Byrkin. See Birkin 
Bys, Henry de, 87 


Cade, Droard son of, 68 
, Wimarc his wife, 68 
Cadeby (Sprotborough), 143 
Caen (Normandy) : 
abbey of Holy Trinity, 4 
abbey of St. Stephen, 8 
Cahors (France, dept. Lot), 18” 
Cailli, Caili, de Cailleio, Kaili, Kayle, 
de Kailleio : 
Adam de, 130, 136 
Osbert de, 78 
Simon de, 97 
William de, 70-1 
Caisnei, de Caineto. See Chesney 
Calder, Kelder, river, 203, 204n, 
210n, 230 
Caldewenedenebroc, 194 
Caletensis. See Caux 
Calthorpe, family, 39 
Calton, Richard de, steward of css. 
de Warenne, 148”, 247 
Caltorn. See Cawthorne 
Caluecroft (of Tingley), 186 
Calvados (Normandy), 4 
archives of, 46 
Calvomonte, Geoffrey de, 55 
Cambridgeshire, vii, 3”, 18”, 51, 71, 
79 


and see Carlton, Caxton, Ely, 
Gamlingay; Ickleton, 
Trumpington, Weston Col- 
ville, Willingham, Wood 
Ditton 
Campsall, 144, 145 
Candos, Philip de, 93 
, Osmoda his wife, 93 
Canfield, Great and Little (Essex), 
Caneueld, Kane-, 36 
churches, 36-7 
Canterbury, 13 
archbishop of, 122; and see 
Anselm, Baldwin, Becket, 
Lanfranc, Ralph, Theobald, 
Walter (Hubert) 
archdeacon of, 122; and see 
Walter 


264 HONOUR OF 


Canterbury—continued 
chancellor and archdeacon of, 
see John 
prior of, see Walter 
William of, 26n 
Cardinal, -el, Kardinal, family, 186 
Fulk, 208 
Geoffrey, 208 
Richard, 186, 209 
Thomas, 186 
Cardinalvode, Cardinelsal, 186 
Carlessone, Aluric, 91 
Carlisle, 17 
mines of, 152 
Carlton (co. Cambridge), Karletun, 


Carlton, Karle-, Geoffrey de, clerk, 


Carlton Scroop (co. Lincoln), Carle-, 
Karle-, 140, 144, 146-8 
church, 144” 
rector, see Hatfield 
Carrow (Norfolk), priory, 287, 32 
Cartworth (Kirkburton), Karteword, 
178, 179 
Richard de, 131 
Cassell’, Maurice de, 158 
Cast’, Richard de, 177 
Castello, Ralph de, 111, 220 
Castle Acre (Norfolk), Acra, 3-5, 47, 
78, 109, 242 
castle, x, 4, 9n, 78 
church, 4, 77-8 
priory, x, 4, 99:12, 13,20, 64, 
76-9, 92-3, 136, 242, 243n 
, chartulary, x 
and see Acre 
Caston (Norfolk), Cates-, Cotis-, 75 
Catardus, rector of Wakefield, 228, 
236 
Caux, pays de (Normandy), adj. 
Caletensis, 2, 8, 52 
Cawston (Norfolk), Caues-, Caus-, 
9 


manor, 91 
Cawthorne, Caltorn, Hugh de, rural 
dean of Doncaster, 174-5 
Caxton (co. Cambridge), church, 12 
Ceagelie. See Chailey 
Celestine III, pope, 108-9 
Cenomanensis. See Maine 
Certesia. See Chertsey 
Cestra. See Chester 
Chadwick, Mr. S. J., 204-5 
Chailey (Sussex), Ceagelie, 70 
Bevern bridge in, Bouehorne, 70 
Great Home Wood bridge of, 
Hamwde, 70 
Chaineto, Chaisneto, de. See Chesney 
‘Chamberi’ (Touraine), 124 
Chambre, Henry de la, 156, 213 
, Josiana his wife, see 
Horbury 


WARENNE 


Charité, La (France, dept. Niévre), 
Karitas, prior of, 61, 120 
Cherbourg (Normandy), 120 
abbot of, 146; and see Durant 
Chertsey (Surrey), Certesia, abbot 
of. See Martin 
Cheshire, 234; and see Combermere, 
Norton, Stanlawe 
Chesney, Caisnei, de Caineto, Cais- 
neto, Chaineto, Chaisneto, 
Kaineto, Kaysneto, Quer- 
ceto, family, 72n 
Aubreye de, 88 
Bartholomew de, 158 
John de, 88-9 
John son of Ralph de, 72n, 8 
Philip de, 94 
Ralph de, 58-9, 63, 70-2 
Ralph son of Ralph de, [?] 71-2, 
86, 93, 101, 112-3, 158 
Cestra, .adj. Cistrensis, 
city and earldom, 40 
constable of, see Lascy 
earls of, see Gerbod, Hugh, 
John, Ranulf 
Chetelbert, Ketel-, Godric son of, 
157, 237; and see Godric 
Chich (Essex), 49” 
Chichester, Cicestria : 
archdeacon of, see Robert 
bishopric and dio., 68-9 
bishops of, see Neville, Ralph, 
Seffrid 
chantry in cathedral, 135 
dean and chapter, 134m, 135 
deans of, see Richard, Thomas 
earl of, see William 
Chickenley, Chichenlore, Chiken-, 
Serlo de, 215-6, 220 
Chicksands (co. Bedford), priory, 35 
Chiemella. See Keymer 
Chiltington, -yngtun, Ralph de, 160 
Chingeston. See Kingston 
Christie, Miss N. G., 254 
Chuningesburch. See Conisborough 
Clare, -a, adj. Clarensis : 
Richard de, 3 
Richard de, earl fof Hertford], 
120 
Roger de, 63 
Clarendon (Wiltshire), Council of, 26 
Clarke-Thornhill, Mr. T. B., 197 
Fixby deeds of, 1967 
Clayton (High Hoyland), 184 
Clayton (Sussex), Clai-, church, 72-3 
——, wall-paintings in, vilin 
Clayworth, Claiurthe, Adam de, 165 
Clement, mag., clerk, 103 
Clere, -o: 
Sir Ralph de, 130 
_ Roger de, 119 
Clerfai, Clere- : 
Sibyl de, wife of Ralph de 


Chester, 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 265 


Clerfai—continued 


Tilly, 145” 
William de, constable of Tick- 
Milt i57 
——, Aubreye his wife, see 
Lisours 
Clerkenwell (Middlesex), priory, 28” 
Cleveland, archdeacon of. See 
Jeremy 
Clifton (Conisborough), -tunne, 102, 
107-8; 137-8 
Clifton (Dewsbury), 181, 1837, 202-3, 
248 


manor, 203 
and see Hartshead 
Clifton, Clyftun : 
Alan de, 170 
Maurice son of Augustin de, 
169-70 
Reginald de, 183n 
, Diana his wife, 183” 
Clipstone (Norfolk), 91 
Richard de, 90-1 
Clipstone (co. Nottingham), 19” 
Clitheroe (co. Lancaster), fee, 192 
Clownes (Hatfield), Clunes, Glunes, 
118-9, 127 
Cluny (France, dept. Saéne-et-Loire), 
Cluniacum, adj. Cluniacen- 
sis : 
abbey, 4, 41-2, 54-5, 57, 59, 61, 
120-3 
——, abbot of, 60-1, 120-2; and 
see Hugh, Theobald 
——,, prior of, 61, 120-2 
order of, 61”, 68, 81, 121 
Coc, Koc, Reginald, 129-30, 132, 134, 
136 
and see Cooke 
Cockerham (co. Lancaster), church 
and manor, 10 
Coggeshall (Essex), abbey, 13 
Colchester, 17 
Colley, Colelie, Walter de, 128 
Colne, river, 195 
Columbar’. See Coulommiers 
Coly, William son of Geoffrey, 223 
Combe, Cumba, -e, -es : 
Ailnod de, 124, 128 
Richard de la, 173 
Richard son of Robert de, 128 
Robert de, 124, 128 
Combermere (co. Chester), 36” 
abbey, 36 
Conan, earl of Richmond and duke 
of Britanny, 12, 50” 
——, Margaret his wife, see 
Henry e. of Huntingdon 
——, Constance his dau., count- 
ess and duchess, 12 
Conisborough, Chuninges-, Conig-, 
Coning-, Coningges-, Con- 
yng-, Cunigis-, Cuning-, 


Conisborough—continued 
-Cuninge-, Cuninges-, Cunis-, 
Cunnig-, Cunning-, Cun- 
nyg-, Kuninge-, Kunning-, 
[?] Scining-, _ -bourg, 
-bourgh, -broc, -burc, 
-burch -burg, burgh, -by, 
ix, 19, 20, 26”, 109-10, 137, 
162n, 166, 172-3, 190, 244, 
252 
manor, honour, soke, v, x, Xi, 
3, 9, 20, 24n, 25n, 28, 62, 
66, 71, 82, 100, 103, 137-40, 
151, 155, 162-3, 168, 181-2, 
225, 243, 248n, 249 
=, court of, earl’s court at, 
156-7, 163-4 
=| -_—., bailiffs of, 246 
, steward, 100; and see Tilly 
bailiff, warden, of Lewes priory 
at, 129, 165-6 
castle, 20, 140, 181, 250n, 251” 
——. chapel in, 20, 116 
church, x, 63, 66-8, 85-6, 101-5, 
107-9," 137, °157,°161; 165, 
173-4 
constables of, 100, 251; and see 
Daneuell, Drury, MHersy, 
Picot 
market, 20 
mills, 116, 137 
priest at, 137 
rector, see Ruffus 
tithe of hall, 67 
vicarage, 107 
Richard the chaplain of, 172, 
174-5 
John the priest of, 157 
, Peter his bro., 157 
Reginald son of Elias de, 172-3 
William de, 112, 159 
Constable, family, 32 
and see Melton, Peter 
Cooke, Coc, Coke, Cock’ : 
Sir Thomas, steward of Wake- 
field, 248-9 
Thomas, earl’s steward, rector 
of Ruddington, 190, 248, 


252 
Thomas, rector of Dewsbury, 
248n, 250 
Copley, family, 199 
Cormeilles, -mayll’, Walter (not 


William), 254 
Cétentin (Normandy), officers of the, 
49 


Cotiston. See Caston 
Coulances (Normandy, Calvados, 
nr. Vire), lord of, 2 
Erneis de, 2 
Richard de, 2 
, Adelaise his wife, 2 
Roger de, 2 


266 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Coulen, Monsieur G., 45x 

Coulommiers (Touraine, mod. Vill- 
andry), Columbar’, 124-5 

Courtenay, Curtenai, Reginald de, 


Coutances (Normandy), 48-50 
bishop of, see Hugh 
Coventry (co. Warwick), 175 
bishop of, see Walter 
prior of, 122 
Cowbridge, causeway (Hatfield), 
Cubrige, -brigge, 117-9, 127 
Cowick Bury (Essex), Cowyk, manor, 
5 


Crechesfeld. See Reigate 
Cressi : 
Henry de, 176 
Richard de, 176 
Roger de, 172 
Cricetot. See Criquetot 
Crich (co. Derby), barony, 162 
Criggleston (Sandal Magna), Crigele- 
stun, Crigleston, Crikeles-, 
Crikelis-, 179, 190-3, 252 
Simon the chaplain of, 193 
family, 190-1 
Adam de, 113, 190 
, Sibyl his wife, 190 
Adam de (younger), 190 
Adam son of Alan de, 229 
Alan son of Adam de, 190-1, 
193, 215, 231 . 
Hugh de, 190 
John bro. of William de, 191 
John son of David de, 112 
Peter.deé;, 191 
, Eve his wife, 191 
Robert de, 190 
Thomas son of Adam ‘de, 190, 
193, 231 
, Christiana his wife, 190 
Thomas son of John de, 191” 
William de, 191 
William son of Hugh de, 1902 
Criquebeuf (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
inf., arreLe:Hayre,. cant. 
Fécamp), Ikebof, Kikebof, 
113 
Peter de, 112-3 
Criquetot, Crice-, Crike-, -toth, Crich- 
etoht, William de, 37n, 
74, 76, 78, 81 
Criquetot-sur- -Longueville, 74n 
Criquetot-sur-Ouville, 74” 
Crispin, Milo, 57 
Crofton, church, 182 
Crookhill, Crocheswelle, 102 
Crosland, Cross-, Crosse- : 
fosse, 194 
North (Almondbury), 179, 193-5 
——, Crosland Hill in, 194 
Rogeri, 194 
South, 193-4 


Crosland—continued 
,» Hall, 194 
——, hermitage in, 194 
, manor, 194 
family, 194 
Adam son of Roger de, 194-5 
Robert son of Adam de, 194 
Crowle (co. Lincoln), 82 
Crowle, Crul, Crull, 
clerk, 186-9 
Croxton (co. Leicester), 49” 
church and abbey, 49 
Cubrige. See Cowbridge 
Cukewald, Thomas de, 161 
Cullingworth (Bingley), 205” 
Cumba, -e, -es. See Combe 
Cumbecloc, Cumclock, 222, 224 
Cumberland. See Carlisle 
Cumberworth, 248 
Cumberworth, Upper (Kirkburton), 
Cumbrewode, 133-4, 139, 
179, 182, 184, 218, 246 
Cumcistra. See Balcombe 
Cuningeburgh, -esburch. See Conis- 
borough 
Curcy, honour of, 29 
William III de, 28-9 
, Gundreda his wife, see 
Warenne (Reginald de) 
+, ‘Alice his, dau: wiles or 
Warin son of Gerold, 29, 31 
——, ——, Joan her dau., wife 
of Hugh de Neville, 29, 30 
——, ——-, Margaret her dau., 
wife of Baldwin de Reviers 
and Faukes de Breauté, 29, 
30 
William IV de, 29, 31 
Curtenai. See Courtenay 
Cusworth (Sprotborough), Custe-, 
Cusseword, 107-8, 137-9, 
162-3 
Cuverville (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Inf., arr. Dieppe), 72 


Richard de, 


Dalton (Kirkheaton), 181-3 
Dalton (Rotherham), -tune, 102, 
107-8, 137-9, 163-4, 182n, 
246 
mill, 163-4 
Dammartin, Reginald de, count of 
Boulogne, 18 
, Lda his wife, see Flanders 
Danby, earl of, See Thomas 
Daneuell’, Walter de, constable 
[? of Conisborough], 118, 
251 
Danish districts, 139 
Darcy, Hugh de, [in error], 225 
Darfield, Derfeld, [?] Drefeld : 
[?] Gilbert the priest of, 174 
Reiner de, 174 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 267 


David : 
I, king of Scotland, earl of 
Huntingdon, 11, 50, 152 
——, his son, see Henry e. of 


Huntingdon 

earl of Huntingdon, son of earl 
Henry.i1,.12 

-——-, his son, see John e. of 
Chester 


the priest, 112 
Davis, Mr. H. W. C., 57, 58n 
Dawesberg. See Dewsbury 
Dean (co. Bedford), 9 
Dedham (Essex), 23 
Deighton, Digton, Henry de, 223 
Delhas, Henry, 94 
Delisle, M. Léopold, 15x” 
Denaby (Mexborough), Denebi, Den- 
ingby, -ebi, Dennyngby, 
109-10, 172, 189-90 
Henry de, 172 
William de, 172 
Denby (in Upper Whitley, Kirk- 
heaton), Dene-, 211, 246 
William de, 220 
Dencombe (in Slaugham, Sussex), 
Denechecumbe, 88 
Denecastria. See Doncaster 
Denver (Norfolk), 251 
Robert son of Walter de, 251” 
Derby, earl of, earldom, 239-40; 
and see Ferriéres 
Derby, West (co. Lancaster), wapen- 
take, 49 
Derbyshire, 162 
and see Beauchief, Burton-on- 
Trent, Crich, Eckington, 
Staveley 
Dereham, Dier-, William the clerk 
of, 159 
Dereham, West (Norfolk), abbey, 20 
Derfeld. See Darfield 
Dersingham (Norfolk), 29 © 
Deuisbui, Thomas de, 174 
Devon. See Exeter 
Dewsbury, Dawesberg, Deusburc, 
Deuwesbyry, Dewebire, 
Dewesberi, -bery, -biri, 112, 
L78, 192, 211, 224; 246 
church, 63-4, 85-7, 102, 105, 
107, 178, 202, 218, 247 
manor, 178 
priest at, 178 
rectors, see Cooke, Henry, Rich- 
mond 
John de, rector of, 209 
Diceto, Ralph de, 121” 
Dieppe (Normandy), 3 
Dierham. See Dereham 
Digton. See Deighton 
Dinan (Britanny), Dinant, 108 
Peter de, archdn of York, bp 
of Rennes, 108 


Dinnington, Donigthon, Donington, 
Donyng-, Dunin-, Duning- 
tun, Dunning-, ix, 137, 
139, 251 
advowson, 173 
church, 63, 86-7, 102, 105, 107-8, 
163 


Nicholas son of William de, 173 
mag. William de, 157 
Ditton. See Wood Ditton 
Docinges, Ralph de, 172 
Doding, Roger son of, 220 
Dodsworth, Roger, x, 113, 168n, 
169”, 1938, 194n, 205n, 
209n, 216, 230 
Doget, Simon, 166 
Dogge, 166 
Dolfin : 
the [rural] dean, 174 
, Ralph his son, 174 
Henry son of, 204 
Robert son of, 204, 215 
Don, river, 82, 137 
Doncaster, Denecastria, Donecastra, 
-ia, 138, 151, 162 
manor, 146 
rectors, see Eudo, mag. Peter 
(infra) 
rural deans, see Cawthorne, 
Hatfield, Hugh 
——., official of, see Stanford 
ruri-decanal chapter, 173-5 
Tilly cross at, 145 
Hamo the clerk of, 167 
Robert the deacon of, 165 
John de, justice of Common 
Bench, earl’s steward and 
of Wakefield, 244n, 250 
mag. Peter of, rector of Don- 
caster, 167, 174-5 
, John his bro., 174 
Donington. See Dinnington 
Dorking (Surrey), 162 
church, 9 
Doudeman, fee of, 125 
Dover, -or, Doure, 7 
castle, 16 
, constableship of, 51 
honour, 16 
prior of, 122 
and see Peverel 
Dransfield, Drons-, family, 184 
Agnes, 184 
John, 184 
Drefeld. See Darfield 
Droard son of Cade, 68 
Wimarc his wife, 68 
Droseio, -eyo, William de, 85-7, 89 
Druard, ix, 68 
heirs of, 67 
and see Wakefield 
Drury, Nigel, constable of Conis- 
borough, 251 


268 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Dub’le, Gerard, 217 
Duckett, Sir G., 42, 44n, 56x 
Dugdale, Sir W., 4n, 6n, 40-1 
Duncan, earl of Fife, 27 
Dunfal, le, 198-9 
Duninton, Duning-. See Dinnington 
Dunningley, Duninglau : 
David de, 207 
Ranulf de, 188, 207 
Duntun, Reiner de, 130 
Dunum. See Bourg-Dun 
Durant, abbot of Cherbourg, 146” 
Durham, adj. Dunhelmensis, Dun- 
olm-: 
bishop of, 191n; and see Poitou, 
Puiset, William 
MSS. of dean and chapter, 46 
priory, chancellor, see Peter 
, hosteler, see Robert 
——, priors, see Bertram, 
Germanus 
, sacristan, see Elias 
, sub-prior, see Patrick 
Durham, co. See Finchale 
Durildewelle(ker), 221 
Duuestord, John de, 176 
Duuestorp : 
Michael de, 177 
Thomas de, 176 


Earl’s Heaton. See Heaton 
Earsdon (Bothal, Northumberland), 
191 
Eastoft, 82, 83x 
Easton, Great (Essex), 
-una, 36-7 
Blamster’s Hall in, 37 
Eboraci sira. See Yorkshire 
Ecclesall, -hale, Ralph de, 134, 
163-4 
Eccleshill (Bradford), 179, 180” 
Eckington (co. Derby), Ekin-, 23 
Peter son of Thomas de, 207 
Edgar, chamberlain of countess 
Isabel, 253 
Ediva daughter of Harding, 135 
Edlington, Ede-, 108, 138% 
chapel, 107-8 
rector, see Elias 
Elias the clerk of, 170 
Edward : 
the Confessor, king, 44, 56, 137, 
178n 
abbot of Reading, 84 
the sheriff, 57 
Eland, -a, Elond, Heland, family, 
192, 198-9, 230 
Elias son of Richard de, 199 
Henry son of Leising de (the 
elder), 112-3, 190-3, 198- 
201, 212.215 se223e, 230) 
232 


Estana, 


Eland—continued 

, Alice his wife, 191-3 

——, his three daus., 192 

, his seal, 193 

Henry son of Richard de, 192, 
198-9, 230-2 

Hugh son of Hugh de, 198-9 

Hugh [?] son of Leising de, 192, 
199 


(Sir) Hugh son of Richard de, 
117, 192, 199-201, 215, 
222, 224, 229-32 
Isabel de, wife of Sir John 
Savile, 192 
Sir John de, 194 
John son. of Richard de, 199 
Richard son of Hugh de, 113, 
192, 199, 200 
Richard son of Hugh de (the 
younger), 200, 232 
Robert son of Richard de, 198-9, 
230-1 
William son of Richard de, 199, 
231 
Elbeuf-sur-Andelle (Normandy, 
dept. Seine-Inf., arr. Rouen, 
cant. Darnetal), 81x 
Elias : 
the chaplain of Halifax, 208 
the clerk, 170 
—— of Edlington, 170 
the priest, 204 
rector of Edlington, 167 
sacristan of Durham priory, 166 
son of Assolf, 113 
son of Hugh, see Bosville 
son of Richard son of Henry, 199 
son of William, 153 
Reginald son of, 118, 127, 173, 
214-6; and see Conisbor- 
ough, Soothill 
Robert son of, 83-4, 185 
Thomas son of, 176 
Elland, 192, 201 
mill, 232n 
and see Eland 
Ellis, Sir H., 41, 96 
Elmsall, 244 
Elond. See Eland 
Ely : 
abbey, 6 
, abbot, 6 
bishop of, 219; and see Eustace, 
Geoffrey, Hervey, lLong- 
cham 
William de, 158 
Emanville (Normandy, pays de 
Caux), Amundi Villa, 53-4 
church, 52 
Emley, 21”, 179, 184, 211, 237 
brook, 210 
manor, 21 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 269 


Engelram : 
Richard son of, 170 
William son of, 170 
Enneus, the [rural] dean, 205 
Erceham. See Heacham 
Erdeslaue, Erdis-. See Ardsley 
Ergadeseya. See Gardeseye 
Erle, William le, 182 
Erleham, Robert de, 159 
ies we Aisse : 
Eustace de, 132 
William de, 90 
Esneval (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Inf., arr. Rouen), Wenneval, 
Wes-, Wie-, Wos-, de Wis- 
nevallibus : 
barony, 2 
family, 2, 75 
Robert d’, 2 
Robert de (the younger), 75, 82, 
85, 88, 97 
Rodulf de, 53, 82” 
William de, 158 
Essex, 3, 5, 6, 14, 36, 51, 38” 


Christine countess of, see 
Valognes 
and see Bendish, Boreham, 


Canfield, Chich, Coggeshall, 
Colchester, Cowick, Ded- 
ham, Easton, Halstead, 
Manewden, St. Osyth, 
Stansted, Yeldham 
Essex and Herts., sheriff of, 33” 
Essulf, Essolvus. See Assolf 
Estana, -una. See Easton 
Estaus, William des, 127 
Estona. See Aston 
Estouteville, Stuteville : 
family (of Valmont), 23x 
Henry d’, 23 
, Maud his wife, see Hamelin 
John d’, 23 
Leonia de, 162 
Robert d’, 23 
and see Stuteville 
Eu (Normandy), comté, 23 
counts of, see Henry, Lusignan 
countess of, see Henry count of 
Eu 
Eudo, Odo, rector of Doncaster, 167 
Eustace, 58-9 
bishop of Ely, 121-2 
clerk, chancellor of William de 
Blois, 50-1, 98 
IL and III, counts of Boulogne, 
48, 51 
son of kg Stephen, count of 
Boulogne, 15, 17, 47 
son of John, 150, 211 
steward of William de Warenne 
II, 80, 243 
Everard son of Ralph, 157 


Everingham, family, 186, 210 
Adam de, 186, 210 
Sir John de, 228 
Sir Robert de, 186, 189, 210 
Robert son of Thomas de, 185-6, 
189-90 
——, Isabel his wife, see Birkin 
Thomas de, 185-8 
—-—, Amice his dau., wife of 
Sir John de Meaux, 189 
Evesham, battle of, 249, 252 
Evreux (Normandy), bishopric, 120 
bishop of, see John son of Luke 
Exeter, church of, 8 
bishop of, 122 
Eye (Suffolk), honour of, 16-18, 48, 
114 


priory, 48 
Eyton, Rev. R. W., 36-7, 150 


Fairburn, 210 
Fakenham (Suffolk), 30 
Little, 30-1 
——-, church, 30 
Falmer (Sussex), Falemela, -mella, 
-mere, 54-6, 71 
hundred, 59 
parish, 58 
Faltewella. See Feltwell 
Faramus. See Boulogne 
Farnley (Leeds), -elei, -leia, 179-80, 
195-6, 197n, 198 
chapel of St. Helen, 195-7, 198 
manor, 180 
Samson son of Peter de, 195-6 
Farrer, Mr. W., v, 8, 10x, 19n, 
26n, 36-7, 38n, 40n, 43, 65, 
70, 71n, 79n, 82, 88, 138n, 
139, 142, 143, 147n, 162n, 
163, 178, 179n, 182, 183- 
4, 1877 (190, 1927+ 195, 
210n, 217, 226n 
Faversham (Kent), abbey, 17, 48 
Fedricus. See Frederick 
Fegesby, Fekesbi. See Fixby 
Felley (co. Nottingham), priory, x, 
166 
Feltwell (Norfolk), 
church, 91-2 
Ferg’, Richard son of, 199 
Ferriéres, de Ferrariis : 
earl de, see Derby 
Henry de, 58 
Richard de, 93 
Robert de, earl of Derby, 254 
William I and II de, earls of 
Derby, 239-40 
Ferriéres-Saint-Hilaire (Normandy, 
dept. Eure, arr. Bernay), 
240 
Ferring’ges, Humphrey de, 173 
Fiennes, Enguerrand de, 51 


Faltewella, 


270 HONOUR OF 


Fiennes—continued 

» sibyl his -wife, see 

Boulogne 

, William his son, 51 

Fife, earl of. See Duncan 

Filcock, German, bailiff of liberty of 
Wakefield, 250” 

Fin, William del, 212 


Finchale (co. Durham), priory, 
146, 148 
Firsby (Ravenfield), Frisbie, -eby, 
102, 107-8 
Firth, , 230n 
Fishlake, Fiselac, Fislac, -lake, 
Fischelake, -clache, x, 137, 
139, 176-7 
church, 1/63," > 86-77 2102, 1105, 
107-8 
manor, 140 
parish, 134 


rector, see Thomas 
FitzAlans of Bedale, origin of, xn 
FitzPeter, Geoffrey, justiciar, 121 
FitzStephen, William, 13 
FitzWalter, Sir Robert, 35 
, Dervorguilla his wife, see 
Burgh 
FitzWilliam, family, 20”, 21m, 112, 
157, 164, 175). 237 
Roger, 20, 25 
Sir Thomas, 164 
William, 20, 133-5, 215, 234n, 
237 
——., Ela his wife, see Hamelin 
——, Maud his wife, 20”, 21n 
Fixby (Halifax), Fekesbi, -by, -isby, 
Fegesby, 179, 180n, 196- 
20 1 6222-8, 2295-2315 246-7 
deeds, 221n 
families, 197 
manor, 196-7, 222, 229 
William the clerk of, 197-8 
Gamel de, 198 
Henry (son of Swain) de, 198- 
200, 222, 224 
John de, 223-4, 232; and see 
Talvas 
Richard (son of Swain) de, 
198-200, 222, 224, 230 
Robert son of Swain de, 198-200 
Thomas son of Gamel de, 198 
Flamago. See Fleming 
Flamanville-l’Esneval (Normandy, 
pays de Caux), Flamen-, 
53-4 
church, 52 
Hugh de, 2, 52-4 
, Gilbert, Robert his sons, 
53 
— —, Rainald, William his sons, 
ae 
Flamborough, Flainesburch, Robert 
de, 192 


WARENNE 


Flanders, viiin, 6, 41, 43-5 
counts of, see Baldwin, Robert 
Matthew of, count of Boulogne, 
18 
——, Mary his wife, see Stephen 
——— = elda hish dau suwiie mer 
Reginald de Dammartin, 
18 
——, Maud his dau., wife of 
Henry duke of Lorraine, 
18x 
Fleitel, Basilia dau. of Gerard, 
wife of Hugh de Gournay, 6 
Fleming, le, Flandrensis, Flend-, 
Flamago, family, 183n, 203. 
John, 205, 248 
Michael, 48 
Reiner, 213 
, Eglantine or Rosamund 
his wife, see Horbury 
Reiner son of William, 130-1, 
203-4, 205, 215, 230 
Thomas, 221 
Walter, 204 
Walter son of Thomas, 221 
Sir William, 182-3, 203 
William, 203-4 
William (son of Reiner), 195, 
208 1222 
Fletching (Sussex), 34” 
Flockton, Floke-, 143”, 181, 209-12, 
217 
Nether, 18lu 
manors, 209 
Adam son of Hervey de, 212, 
216-7 
Hervey de, 216 
William son of Hervey de, 217 
Florence, count of Holland, 12 
, Ada his wife, see Henry e. 
of Huntingdon 
Folkington, Fokin-, Philip de, 158 
Fontevrault (Anjou), abbey, 20x 
Foots Cray (Kent), Fortiscrea, 33-4 
Wadeland in, 33 
Fossard, Nigel, 138, 168” 
Fosse, de Fossato, Richard de, 194 
Foucarmont (Normandy, dept. 
Seine-Inf., arr. Neufchatel), 
abbey, 20, 22n 
.—, monk of, 22” 
Fougéres (Britanny), de Fulgeriis, 
abbot of, 121 
Foulsham (Norfolk), 125 
Foulston (Kirkburton), 179 
Fountains abbey, de Fontibus, x, 
183, 194-5, 200-1, 222-4, 
232, 249 
granges, see Ainley, Bradley 
mills at Bradley, 194-5 
France, king of, 11, 13, 23; and see 
Henry, Louis, Philip 
Augustus 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 271 


France—continued 
war with, 23n 
Francus, 215 
Fraxneto, de. See Fresne 
Frederic, Fedricus, 3, 40, 44-5, 57 
Freeman, Professor, 41-3, 44n, 45 
Freville, Fri-, Frie-, Freievilla, Frie- 
willa, Frivile : 
Baldwin de, 92 98 
Drew de, 87, 99, 158 - 
Ralph de, 114, 158 
Robert de, 78, 82, 85, 87, 92-3 
Robert de, jun., 92 
Frescheville, -enevil, -enville, Freis- 
seinville, Fresceville : 
fee, 139, 162-3 
family, 162-3 
Anker, Angerer de, 130, 162, 
237 
——, Juliana his wife, see 
Ralph (Hubert son of) 
Anker son of Ralph de, 162 
, Amice his wife, see Musard 
Ralph de, 139, 162 
Fresne, de Fraxneto, Roger de, 158 
Frisbie, Friseby. See Firsby 
Frondonte, de, Robert the clerk, 166 
Fulgeriis, de. See Fougéres 
Fulk, mag. William son of, 174-5 
Fulking (Poynings hundred, Sussex), 
251n 


Furn’, Jordan de, 159 
Furness (co. Lancaster), abbey, 48 
Futupus, Bardolf, 114 


Galbraith, Professor V. H., vi, viin 
Gamel, 192n, 205 
son of Ulchel, 200-1 
Gamlingay (co. Cambridge), 47 
‘Gardeseye’ (Sussex), Ergadeseya, 
Higarde-, mill, 105-7 
Garenna. See Warenne 
Garston (co. Lancaster), 50 
Gelham. See Yeldham 
Gentil, Richard, 176 
Geoffrey, Goisfridus, Jof-, Jos-: 
archbishop of York, 100, 107-8, 
161, 165 
bishop of Ely, 120 
the chaplain, 64, 77, 79, 128-9 
of William de Warenne 
LILI, 91 
the clerk of Reigate, 128 
count of Anjou, 13, 18, 104-5, 
Pye tO IG lis 123 
——, Hamelin his son, _ see 
Hamelin 
——, William his son, 13, 14, 
18x 
count of Mortagne, Margaret 
dau. of, wife of Henry de 
Beaumont, 10x 


Geoffrey—continued 
Hugh son of, 114 
Gerald, 79 
the chaplain, 73, 81 
Gerbert, Robert son of, 112 
Gerbod, Gherbod : 
advocates of Saint-Bertin, 41, 


brother of Arnulf, 46 
earl of Chester, 5, 40-1, 44-5 
——, his sister, see Gundreda 
Gerbod (of Braithwell), 154-5, 170-1 
Amice his wife, 154-5 
Robert his son, 114, 154-5, 170 
William his son, 154-5, 170 
and see Braithwell 
Germanus : ; 
the priest, 165. ’- 
prior of Durham, 166 
Germinus. See Jeremy 
Gerold, Warin son of, 29 
——, Alice his wife, see Curcy 
——, Margaret his dau., see 
Curcy 
, his steward, see Godham 
Gerunel, Michael, 156 
Gherbod. See Gerbod 
Giffard, Gifardus : 
Osbert I and II, 100, 130, 136, 
237 
' Robert, 55 
Walter, 57-8, 81 
Gilbert, Gislebert : 
bishop of Rochester, 121 
canon of Worksop, 165 
the chaplain of Almondbury, 
103;>201,-231 
the clerk, 52, 112 
the priest of [?] Darfield, 174 
son of Goze, 73 
son of Pain, 191 
son of Reiner, 89, 90 
Giles; J. A’, 952, 96 
Gillethueit. See Guilthwaite 
Gimingham (Norfolk), Guemiggue-, 
church, 91-2 
steward of, see Spriggi 
Girard, the clerk, 73 
Gladio, ‘joculator’, 37 
Gladwin, William son of, 170 
Glanville, Glam- : 
Anselm de, 118, 127 
Ranulf de, sheriff of Yorks., 
120, 174 
Roger de, 11 
Gundreda his wife, see 
Roger e. of Warwick 
Gloucester, Glowecestrre, 17n 
archdeacon of, see Inglesham 
earl of, 171 
honour of, 32 
Osbert de, 70 
Roger de, 70 


WT o ard, 


2/2 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Glunes. See Clownes 
Godfrey, the chaplain, 77 
Godham, Henry de, steward of Warin 
son of Gerold, 29 
Godric (son of Chetelbert), 157, 237” 
William son of, 20”, 112, 173-5, 
237 
———, sAupreye his pwite, sce 
Lisours 
and see FitzWilliam (family) 
Godwin, -vinus, 37, 179” 
Goisfridus. See Geoffrey 
Golear, 181, 184 
Golda, Hugh son of, 58-9 
Gomersal, 1457 
Goslen, the constable, 63-4 
Gouet, family, 5x” 
Gournay, Gurney, family, 6 
Gerard de, 6, 7 
——, Edith his wife, see War- 
enne (Ist earl) 
——, Gundreda his dau., wife 
of Nigel d’Aubigny, 7 
Hugh de, 6 
——, Basilia his wife, see 
Fleitel 
Hugh son of Gerard de, 7 
Juliana de, wife of William 
Bardolf, 7 
Matthew de, 39, 95 
, Rose his wife, see Burnham 
William de, 39 
Gournay-en-Bray (Normandy, dept. 
Seine-Inf., arr. Neufchatel), 
lord of, 6 
Goze, Gislebert son of, 73 
Grafard, Graffard, Grasford : 
Robert, 112, 117” 
Phomasvil7~ 215 
Gramary, Gramaticus, Richard, 189 
Grandcourt (Normandy, dept. 
Seine-Inf., arr. Neufchatel, 
cant. Londiniéres), Graunt-, 
Grandcurt, Grandi-, Grant-, 
79 
family, 79 
Hugh de, 79 
Rainer de, 78-9 
Walter de, 38, 63, 70-1, 79, 253 
Walter de (younger), 122 
Grangar’, Thomas, 161 
Grantham (co. Lincoln), 24-5 


soke, 24n 
Gray, Walter, archbishop of York, 
108, 165 
Greasbrough (Rotherham), Gres- 


broc, Gresebroch, Greyse- 
broky » ix,.102,) 107-8,..137) 


139, 164 
chapel and tithes, 165-6 
Greetland (Halifax), Gret-, 179, 
180 


Henry de, 201 


Greetwell (co. Lincoln), Grete-, 25 
manor, 24 
Gregory IX, pope, 122-3 
Grelley, Sir Robert de, 35 
, Hawise his wife, sé 
Burgh 
——, Joan his dau., wife of 
John, Lord de la Warr, 35 
Gresbroc, Greysebrok. See Greas- 
brough 
Gresham (Norfolk), 23 
manor, 23n 
Gressenhall (Norfolk), 242 
Grestain (Normandy, dept. Eure, 
arr. Pont-Audemer), abbey, 
49 
Grigneuseville, Greinosavilla, Gre- 
niosa-, Grinnosa-, Grinnose-: 
Hugh de, 70, 75 
Walter de, 81 
William de, 127 
Grimbald, Gilbert, 198 
‘Grimeshou’ (in Ravenfield), 139” 
Grove (co. Nottingham), 225 
manor, 225 
Guarenna, -ethna. See Warenne 
Guemiggueham. See Gimingham 
Guet, Guiet : 
Richard, 5 
, his sister, wife of William 
de Warenne I, 5, 6” 
William, 5” 
Guilthwaite, Gillethueit, 102 
Gulbert, William son of, 81 
Gundreda, sister of Gerbod e. of 
Chester, wife of William de 
Warenne I, viii, xiii, 3, 5-7, 
40-6, 54-7, 59-61, 63, 66-7, 
70, 72-3, 75; 77-9; 123 
her parentage, viii, 40-6 
her tomb, 44 
Gundulf, bishop of Rochester, 58, 63 
Gunnor, duchess, wife of Richard I, 
duke of Normandy, 2, 42” 
her nieces, 27” 
Gurney : 
Daniel, 382, 95” 
Mr. J. H., of Keswick, MS. of, 
15 
and see Gournay 


Guy : 

the butler, 81 

count of Ponthieu, 45 

sheriff of Lewes, see Mencecourt 
Gwarenne, -egna. See Warenne 


Hackinge, 198 
Had’ son of Robert, 167 
Haddinton, Hadintun : 
mag. Robert de, 166 
mag. Walter (William in error) 
de, 165-6 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 273 


Hadercloc, -clock, 222, 224 

Hadwic. See Adwick 

Haget, Geoffrey, 201 

Haia, Michael de, 229 

Haines (Hatfield), Haynes, Henes, 
8 


cell of St. Mary’s York, 82-3, 
115 
Hainricus, 57 
Haisolimus, 208 
Haitfeld. See Hatfield ; 
Haiton, -tun, Gilbert and William 
Gee? 
Haldewurth. See Holdsworth 
Halegrim, 229 
Margery [?] his wife, 229 
Jordan son of, 229 
Halifax, -flex’, ix, 178, 201-2, 233, 
245 


church, vi, 63-4, 86-7, 102, 105, 
201-2 
parish, 201, 248 
rectors, see Talvas, Walter 
_ (Hubert) 
Henry and Elias the chaplains 
of, 208 
Hallesteed, 230 
Halstead (Essex), 36 
church, 36 
Hamelin, son of Geoffrey of Anjou, 
5th earl of Surrey and de 


Warenne, viii, x, xiv, Xlii,. 
13, 14, 18-21, 23-4, 27,3 
38n, 39, 45-6, 60, 88, 94-5, ® 


100-30, 134-5, 139, 144-5, 
148, 150, 153, 159-60, 161x, 
163, 165, 168, 170, 172-3, 
Pombo ee 215, 
DiPee ee, oe, peodse 230, 
238-40, 244-5, 251-3 
Isabel his wife, see Warenne 
(3rd_ earl) 
Ela his dau., wife of Robert de 
Newburn and William 
FitzWilliam, 20-1, 129, 134- 
Bet G49) laa d 
Isabel his dau., wife of Robert 
de Lascy and Gilbert de 
Laigle, 21-2, 233 
Maud his dau., wife of Henry 
count of Eu and Henry 
d’Estouteville, 22-3 
his chaplains, see Hugh, Livet 
his clerks, see Hamo, John, 
Reginald, William 
his seal, 112, 113”, 118, 239-40 
his styles, 19”, 45, 238-41 
Hamo : 

the clerk of Doncaster, 167 

——-- of ¢arl Hamelin, 111,118 
; son of Meinfelin, see Meinfelin 
Hampole, Hane- : 

priory, 20”, 21n 


Hampole—continued 
mag. Albinus de, 168 
bro. William de, 166 
Hampshire, co. Southampton, 3n, 
22, 114 
and see Portsmouth, Romsey, 
Winchester 
Hampton, Jordan de, rector of 
moiety of Kirkburton, 219 
Hamund, William son of, 40 
Hamwde. See Chailey 
Hanging Heaton. See Heaton 
Hangleton (Sussex), -elton, -eltun, 
-uelton, church, 72-3 
Ralph de, 124 
Simon de, 98 
Hanson : 
Edward, 230 
John (of Woodhouse), 230 
Nicholas, 230n 
Harcourt, Harecort, Robert de, 126 
Harding : 
Ediva daughter of, 135 
Hugh son of, 246 
——, Matthew his son, see 
Shepley 
Hardingueleia. See Ardingly 
Hardwick, Herdewic, John son of 
Assolf de, 207 
Haregrim, the earl’s goatherd, 172, 
252 


Harlington, MHerling-, Herlatona, 
Herle-, 98-9, 115, 153 
mill, 98-9, 115, 150-4 
Harold, earl (king), 137 
Harpingden (in Piddinghoe, Sussex), 
Herbertingae, 73 
William de, 73 
Harpley (Norfolk), 38-9, 95 
church, 253 
manor, 95 
Harthill, Herthella, -hil, -il, -ill, ix, 
xi, 14, 33, 34, 35, 138, 147, 
158-60 
advowson, 33, 34n, 157-8, 160 
church, 63, 86-7, 102, 105, 
107-8, 156-7, 159-60 
manor, 28, 157, 159 
rectors, 157, 158”; and see 
Maurice 
Maurice the priest of, 157 
=< 5 Roberthispbro:; 157 
Hartshead (Dewsbury), Hertesheued, 
-heuet, -efeth, 181, 1837, 
202-3, 213-4 
advowson, 202-3, 213 
church or chapel, 86-7, 102, 107, 
202, 204 
lord of, 203 
Hugh de, 213n 
——, Margery his \wite, see 
Radcliffe 


274 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Hartshead—continued 
Richard son of Hugh de, 203n, 
213n 
-cum-Clifton, 202-5 
Hartshead (co. Lancaster), 203” 
Haskeshirst, 231 
Haste vilen’, Gilbert, 167 
Hastings, 8 
battle of, 3, 54 
lady of, 23 
ford ot) 22 
Hatfield (Yorkshire), Haitfeld, Hat-, 
Hed-, Hef-, Heit-, Het-, 
Hete-, Heth-, Hethe-, Hed- 
fued, ix, 13, 117-8, 137-9, 
141, 244, 251 
advowson, 25, 134, 144, 148, 161 
church, 63, 86-7, 102, 105, 107, 
138, 144, 161 
manor, 25, 83, 134, 140, 144, 
16950177,..247 
moor, 117-9 
parish, 134 
priest at, 138 
Adam the chaplain of, 176 
Richard the chaplain of, 176 
Hugh the clerk of, 114 
Richard the clerk of, 176 
Hugh de, rector of Hatfield 
and Carlton Scroop, rural 
dean of Doncaster, 127, 
144, 146, 162, 168-9, 174 
——, his testament, 162 
and see Clownes, Cowbridge, 
Haines, Hutholmes, Lind- 
holme 
Hatville, Richard de, 130 
Hauville, Haville : 
Elias de, 171 
Richard de, 170-1 
, Cecily his wife, 171 
Haworth, 209 
haya, 187, 189; and see Thom’ Haye; 
and cf. Lindley 
Haydon. See Heydon 
Haye, Ralph de la, 236 
Haymeric. See Heimeric 
Haynes. See Haines 
Hayreldesthorpe. See Armthorpe 
Hazlewood (Tadcaster), Heselwod, 
manor, 145n 
Heacham (Norfolk), Erceham, 
Herche-, 4, 59, 60, 75, 248 
manor, 57-8, 60 
reeve of, see Pain 
Healaugh Park, priory, 190 
Heaton, Earl’s (Dewsbury), Hetun, 
Hettun, 179, 237 
tithes, 236 
Heaton, Hanging (Dewsbury), 179, 
180 


Hedfeld, Hef-. See Hatfield 


‘Hednesley’ (nr. Kirklees), Hedins- 

laie, 203-4 
ford of, 204 

Hedon. See Heydon 

Hedric, William, 167 

Hedun. See Heton 

Heimeric, Hay-, mag., canon of 
Beverley, 108 

Hekynton, Ralph and William -de, 
161° 


Heland. See Eland 
Hemsworth, Himlesvrtha, rector of. 
See Wennerville 
Henes. See Haines 
Henrithorp. See Herringthorpe 
Henry, 112, 227 
I, king, 6-8, 16, 17, 42, 44, 46-7, 
57, 62n, 69, :71)-73,-75; 79: 
81°83, 106; 123,2154--178: 
239, 240n 
——, queen Maud his wife, see 
Malcolm ; 
——, dau. of, 2, 9n, 42; and see 
Maud 
I, king of France, 9, 13 
, his son, see Hugh count of 
Vermandois 
II, king (duke of Normandy), 
11, 13, 14”, 15-20, 26-7, 
49-51, 69n, 81-2, 100-1, 
104-5, 107, 109-10, 116, 118- 
20,123, 21505 154, 211 2289 
===, Joa his’ dat.) “wile Sen 
William king of Sicily, 19 
——, Maud his dau., 26-7 
III, king, 18”, 150, 204m, 205 
archbishop of York, 99, 149-51, 
152n 
bishop of Winchester, 84, 123 
the chaplain, 94, 118, 127-9 
of Halifax, 208 
—— of Wakefield, scriptor of 
charter, 230 
the clerk, 166 
count of Eu, 22-3 
——, Maud his wife, see Hamelin 
——, Guy and Ralph his sons, 
22n 
— —, Alice his dau., css of, 
wife of Raoul de Lusignan, 
22-4, 225, 234n 
—-, , her dispenser, see 
Hersy 
duke of Lorraine, 18x 
, Maud his wife, see Flanders 
earl of Huntingdon and North- 
umiberland; 11, 50, 99; 
150-2 
——, Ada his wife, see Warenne 
(2nd earl) 
——, his sons, see David, 
Malcolm IV, William (the 
Lion) 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 2795 


Henry—continued 
Ada his dau., wife of 
Florence count of Holland, 
12 
——, Margaret his dau., wife 
of Conan duke of Britanny 
and Humphrey de Bohun, 
12 
——, Maud his dau., 12 
the porter, 161 
rector of Dewsbury, 209 
the steward, 161 
of Sowerbyshire, 209, 252 
son of Dolfin, 204 
son of John son of Uctred, 199, 
231 
son of Leising, see Eland 
son of Swain, 157 
Peter son of, 167 
Richard son of, 199 
, Henry and Elias his sons, 
199 
Heptonstall (Halifax), ix, 178, 233 
Hepworth (Kirkburton), 179 
Herbert : 
bishop of Norwich, x, 4n, 78 
—— of Salisbury, 121 
Leising son of, 229-31 
Herbertingae. See Harpingden 
Hercheham. See Heacham 
Herci. See Hersy 
Herdewic. See Hardwick 
Herdheke, William, 129 
Herdislaw. See Ardsley 
Hereford, earl of, 3 
Hereward, 44 
Herlington, Herlatona. See Harling- 
ton 
Herman, Hugh son of, 191 
Hernoldestorp. See Armthorpe 
Herringthorpe, Henrithorp, 107-8 
Hersy, -sic, -sin, -syn, Herci, -cin, 
-cy, Horsin, family, 225, 
251 
Sir Baldwin de, constable of 
Conisborough, 130, 132, 
134, 171, 173, 176, 225, 251 
Hugh de, 225 
——, Maud his wife, 225 
Hugh de (younger), 225 
Hugh son of Malvesin de, 225” 
John de, 225 
Sir Malvesin de, dispenser of 
countess d’Eu, constable 
of Tickhill, 132, 134, 171, 
176, 223-5, 229, 251 
———, Tiffany his wife, see 
Arches 
Robert de, 225” 
Hertesheued, -efeth. See Hartshead 
Hertford, earl of. See Clare. 


Hertfordshire, 51 
and see St. Albans, Tring; also 
Essex 
Herthella, -il. See Harthill 
Hervey, 216; and see Flockton 
bishop of Ely, 74-5 
the chaplain, 100 

Heselwod. See Hazlewood 

Hetfeld, Heth-. See Hatfield 

Heton, Hedun, Hethun, Hetton : 

John (son of Jordan) de, 188, 
209, 222-4, 229, 232 

Jordan de, 130-1, 155, 195, 
DA ce SAA Sle 9A 

and see Kirkheaton 

Hettun, Hetun. See Heaton 

Hexthorpe, manor, 168n 

Heydon (Norfolk), 249” 

Heydon, Haydon, Hedon, Richard 
de, earl’s steward and of 
Wakefield, 249 

Hichtefeld. See Ightfield 

Hickleton, Hikil-, 141, 1437 

Ranulf de, see Neufmarché 

Higardeseya. See Gardeseye 

Hill, Hille, John de, earl’s steward, 
248 

Hillmorton (co. Warwick), 40” 

Himlesvrtha. See Hemsworth 

Hipperholme (Halifax), Hiperum, 
Hipr-, Huper-, 179-80, 192, 
252 

Henry de, 200, 222, 224, 232-3 
Jordan de, 232 

Ralph de, the clerk of, 199, 200 
Richard de, 198, 201 

Richard son of Henry de, 231 
Walter de, 200 

Hirst, Temple Hirst, preceptory, 
176-7 

Hockwold (Norfolk), Hoccowella, 91 

Hoctona. See Houghton 

Hodroyd, Hoderode : 

Sir John de, steward of Ponte- 
fract, 248 

John son of Sir John de, 197 

——., Denise his wife, see Briest- 
wistle 

Robert de, 197 

Hodsock, family, 149” 

Roger son of Geoffrey de, 149 

Hogges, John, 188 

Hoiland. See Holland 

Holand. See Hoyland 

Holderness, sheriff of, 242 

Holdsworth (Ovenden, Halifax), 
Aldewurthe, -wrtha, Halde- 
wurth, -wrtha, 201, 205-9, 
246, 252 

Agnes dau. of Orm de, 205-8 
Assolf de, 206 
John de, 209 
John son of Assolf de, 206-8 


276 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Holdsworth—continued 
——, Eve his dau., wife of Elias 
de Rishworth, 207-8 
Richard de, 209 
Holie, Elias de, 128 
Holland, count of. See Florence 
Holland (co. Lincoln), Hoiland, 21 
Hollinhurst, Holine-, Holneherste : 
Robert de, 217 
Thomas de, 131 
Holmaesbiri. See Almondbury 
Holme (Almondbury), 179 
Holmes, Mr. Richard, 70”, 142n 
Holmfirth, forest, 252 
Hood (Kilburn), monks at, 7 
Hooton Levett, 245 
Hooton Pagnell, 141, 148, 156, 216 
Horbury (Wakefield), -beri, -bery, 
-biri, -biria, -biry, -byri, 
Horebiri, -byr’, Hores-, 
Horiba, MHorribi, Orbera, 
Orib’a, 70, 113, 179, 209-17, 
234-5, 244, 246-7 
chapel, 86-7, 102 
constabulary of, 209 
forest, 113 
manor, 214 
family; x; 70, Vi3p129,211, 213, 
2472285 233.1245 
Adam de, 112, 211-2 
Adam son of Matthew de, 211, 
231 
Eustace son of Matthew de, 211, 
pial Pegler 8 bes A oo. 
Sir John son of Sir Ralph de, 
213-4, 228, 249n 
——, Elizabeth his wife, see 
Wake 
Sir John son of Thomas, 190, 
213 


Sir John, the coroner, 213n, 

249n 

, Margaret his wife, 213n 

John son of Jordan de, 216 

John son of Matthew de, 211 

Jordan son of Matthew de, 193, 

211-2, 215-7, 221, 230-1, 245 

, Agnes his wife, 216 

Matthew son of Saxi de, 70, 

112-4, 117, 211-2, 215, 230, 

245 

, Edith his wife, 211 

Sir Ralph de, earl’s steward, 156, 
190, 197, 212-3, 214n, 216-7, 
228-9, 233-5, 243, 247-8 

——, Eglantine or Rosamund 
his dau., wife of Reiner le 
Fleming, 213 

——, his dau., wife of Nicholas 
de Wortley, 213 

Saxi de, 211-2; and see Saxe 

Sir Thomas son of Matthew de, 
earl’s steward, 113-4, 117-8, 


Horbury—continued 
127, 130-1, 155-6; 171, 187, 
191, 193, 203, 211-2, 214-7, 
220-1, 230-2, 244-5, 247 
——, Josiana his dau., wife of 
Henry de la Chambre, 156, 
213 
(Sir) Thomas son of William de, 
15bee 92 420 219 O17 
222-4, 229, 231-2, 234-5, 
247 
Thomas son of Adam de, 212, 
MAH ee oA) 
William [?] son of Adam de, 117, 
19152 :e2OP IID 21 be 21 
PAY IS Ss 
William son of Matthew de, 211, 
231 
Horm. See Orm 
Hornby (co. Lancaster), 183, 196” 
St Mary’s, charter at, 46x 
Horsfal, 221 
Horsheia, Hugh de, 124 
Horsin. See Hersy 
Horton : 
Robert de, 208-9 
Thomas son of Hugh de, 209 
Hose, Hosatus, de la Huse, Geoffrey, 
28, 30-1 
——, Gundreda his wife, see 
Warenne (Reginald de) 
——, Geoffrey his son, 30 
Hospinell’, Remigius, earl’s steward 
of the household, 253 
Hospitallers, hospital of Jerusalem, 
17, 20, 111-2, 1437, 144, 216 
master of, in Yorkshire, 248 
prior of, 182, 227 
and see Newland 
Hoton, William de, 155 
Houerum. See Owram 
Houghton, Hoctona, William de, 217 
Howden, 191n 
Roger of, 214 
Hoyland, Holand, Swain de, 204 
Hoyland, Upper and Nether (Wath- 
upon-Dearne), 138-9 
Hoyland Swaine, 187 
Hubert, Humbert, prior of Lewes, 
36, 127-8, 227 
Hubert son of Ralph. See Ralph 
Huc, mag. Robert de, 187 
Huck, Huke, 113-4, 176 
Ughtred son of, 48 
Huddersfield, Huderesfeld, Robert 
the clerk of, 224 
Hugh : 
I and II, abbots of Cluny, 55, 
120-1 ; 
archbishop of Rouen, 81, 127 
bishop of Coutances, Roger son 
of, 2”, 53-4 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES Add 


Hugh—continued 
, Hugh son of Roger son of, 
53 
——, William son of Roger son 
of, 52-3 
bishop of Durham, see Puiset 
chaplain of earl Hamelin, 113-4 
, rector of Wakefield, 227-8 
the clerk of Hatfield, 114 
count of Vermandois, Isabel or 
Elizabeth dau. of, wife of 
Robert de Beaumont and 
William de Warenne II, 
viii, 9, 10, 26, 39n, 62-5, 
69, 70, 75-81, 87, 91-4, 123, 
Ps 238 3252 
earl of Chester, 58 
the esquire, 170 
I and II, priors of Lewes, 68, 
LSS 227 
rector of Wakefield, 247 
rural dean of Doncaster, 176 
, his official, see Stanford 
sheriff of Lewes, 74, 77, 241-2 
the tailor, 176 
brother of Roger the chamber- 
lain, 127 
son of Apolitus, 167 
son of Geoffrey, 114 
son of Golda, 58-9 
son of Harding, see Harding 
son of Herman, 191 
son of Hugh, 64 
son of John son of Uctred, 199 
son of Walter, 208 
——, Ralph his son, 208-9 
Elias son of, see Bosville 
Richard son of, 173 
Swain son of, 112 
Thomas son of, 159 
William ov Walter son of, 168 
Humbert. See Hubert 
Humphrey, 71 
the clerk, 172 
Hunfichel, Ricoardus son of, 119 
Hunter, Rev. Joseph, xii, 25”, 33m, 
137, 143, 149, 225 
Huntingdon, earls of. See David, 
Henry, Malcolm, William 
(the Lion) 
Huntingdonshire, 3” 
and see, Kimbolton, St. Neots, 
Sawtrey 
Huperum. See Hipperholme 
_Hurteuent, William, 111 
Huscarl, -char, 150-1 
Huse. See Hose 
Hutholmes de Clunes, Glunes (Hat- 
field), 118, 127 
Huuerum. See Owram 
Hyde abbey chronicler, 4”, 5, 41, 
42n, 44 


Ickleton (co. Cambridge), 18 

Iggi, Peter son of, 201 

Ightfield (Shropshire), Hichtefeld, 
36 


n 
Robert de, 36” 

Ikebof. See Criquebeuf 

Inglesham, Robert de, archdeacon of 

Surrey and Gloucester, 123 

Innocent III, pope, 122 

Insula, de. See Lisle 

Ipswich (Suffolk), 13 

Ireland, scutage of, 28 

Isaac, 227 
the serjeant, 161 

Isabel, Thomas son of, 131 

Istannus, William son of, 81 

, Ralph his son, 81 

Ivo, the clerk of Midgley, 233 


Jeremy, Germinus, archdeacon of 
Cleveland, 174 
Jerusalem, Jerosolima, 7, 93, 152 
and see Hospitallers, Templars 
Jofridus. See Geoffrey 


John : 

king, 19, 20, 24, 30, 32, 34, 49n, 
150 

——, Joan his dau., wife of 
Alexander II of Scotland, 
229 

I and II, bishops of Norwich, 
120-1 


chancellor and archdeacon (of 
Canterbury), 69 
the clerk, 172, 188 
of dean of Lewes, 175 
of earl Hamelin, 118 
earl of Chester, 12 
the marshal, 173 
the priest, 237 
——— of Conisborough, 157 
: , Peter his bro., 157 
brother of Peter rector of 
Doncaster, 174 
son of Assolf, see Assolf 
son of Luke, kg’s clerk, bishop 
of Evreux, 120 
son of Paulinus, 112 
son of Uhtred, Utred, see 
Uctred 
Eustace son of, 150”, 211 
Johnson, Mr. Charles, 46” 
Jordan : 
son of Assolf, constable of 
Wakefield, 114, 206, 236, 
251 
son of Halegrim, 229 
Richard son of, 215 
Joseph, 173 
the marshal, 161 
the priest, 165 


‘Josfridus. See Geoffrey 


Juvenis. See Young 


278 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Kaili, de Kailleio. See Cailli 
Kaineto, de. See Chesney 
Kaneuelde. See Canfield 
Kardinal. See Cardinal 
Karitas. See Charité 
Karleton. See Carlton 
Karteword. See Cartworth 
Kayle. See Cailli 
Kaysneto, de. See Chesney 
Kelder. See Calder 
Kent, earl of. See Burgh 
and see Boxley, Canterbury, 
Dover, Faversham, Foots 
Cray, Rochester 
Ketelbert. See Chetelbert 
Keymer (Sussex), Chiemella, church, 
72-3 
Kikebof. See Criquebeuf 
Kilpin (Howden), 191 
Kimbolton (co. Huntingdon), 9 
Kingeston, Warin de, earl’s steward, 
243 
Kings Lynn (Norfolk), 27n 
Kingston (nr. Lewes, Sussex), Ching- 
eston, 76 
church, 64, 65, 69, 74, 76-7 
Kirk Sandal. See Sandal 
Kirk Smeaton. See Smeaton 
Kirkburton, [?] Berton, Birton, 
Bur-, Birthon, -tune, Burg- 
tan is 102 1 79218-2)h, 
244-5, 248 
advowson, 218, 220, 249 
church or chapel, 63-4, 86-7, 


102, 105, 107-8, 218-20, 
247n 
rectors, see Birstall, Hampton, 
London 
Roger the clerk of, 221 
Kirkby : 
Adam de, 212 


, his wife, see Shitlington 
Ingram de, 212 
Kirkby, South, Sudkirkebi, mag. 
Lambert de, 168; and see 
Lambert 
Kirkheaton, Heton, 193, 195, 204 
rector, see Adam 
and cf. Heton 
Kirklees, Kirkeleia, Kuthelaya, Kut- 
kales, Kyrkeley, 203, 204n 
muniments at, 203”, 205 
priory, 130, 203-5, 237, 245 
, prioress, 204 
, seal, 204 
Kirkstall abbey, 145, 227 
Kiveton, 138 
Knauewellehirst, 198 
Koc. See Coc 
Kuningeburg. See Conisborough 
Kurchum, Sir William de, earl’s 
steward, 171, 247 
Kuthelaya, -kales, See Kirklees 


Kyrkeley. See Kirklees 


Laceles, Lacell’. See Lascelles 
Lacy. See Lascy 
Ladune, Walter de, 230 
Laigle (Normandy, dept. Orne, arr. 
Mortagne), 21x 
Laigle, Aquila : 
Gilbert de, 21-2, 24 
, Isabel his wife, sée 
Hamelin 
Richer de, 16- 
Lamare. See Mare 
Lambert, mag., 168n, 174-5 
Lambeth (Surrey), Lameheda, 120-1 
Lancashire, 192, 203n 
and see AMounderness, Brough- 
ton, Clitheroe, Cockerham, 
Derby, Furness, Garston, 
Hartshead, Hornby, Lons- 
dale, Newsham, Oldham, 
Radcliffe, Rochdale, Single- 
ton, Walton, Wavertree 
Lancaster, 48 
earl of, see Thomas 
forest of, 48 
honour of, 15”, 16-18, 48, 49n 
——, barons and officials of, 
48, 50 
Gilbert de, 10 
, Goditha his wife, 10 
William son of Gilbert de, 10 
——, Gundreda his wife, see 
Warenne (2nd earl) 
—, Jordan and William his 
sons, 10 
Mr. W. T., 145” 
Lane, Lanes : 
Gilbert de, 117 
Nicholas de, 111, 117 
Lanfranc, archbishop of Canterbury, 
3n, 55 
Langeais (Touraine), 124n 
Langfeld, William de, constable of 
Sandal, 190, 252 
Langfield (Halifax), 178, 233 
Lanzo, prior of Lewes, 63 
Laodicea, 13 
Lascelles, -celes, Laceles, -ell’ : 
Emma de, wife of Peter son of 
Assolf, 210 
Geoffrey de, 125 
Humphrey de, 215, 217 
Lascy, Lacy: 
honour of, fee, 21, 143-4, 184, 
192, 195, 196”, 204n, 209n, 
226n; and see Pontefract 
Aubreye de, wife of Robert de 
Lisours, 167 
Edmund de, 180, 194, 197, 247 
, his steward, see Ludham 
Gilbert de, 192 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 279 


Lascy—continued 

, Agnes his wife, see Owram 

Henry de, 21, 144-5, 194, 204, 
210, 244, 245n 

Ilbert de, 179n, 180-1, 183n, 
185, 193, 201-2, 209 

John de, earl of Lincoln, 144, 
194 


Robert de, 69 
Robert son of Henry de, 21, 167, 
194, 198, 204, 227 
——, Isabel his wife, see 
Hamelin { 
——, his steward, see Wridles- 
ford 
Roger de, constable of Chester, 
21, 33, 192, 194 
Lateran, the (Rome), 109 
Latisaquensis. See Lewes 
Laurence, . 227 
mag., archdeacon of Bedford, 
official of abpric of York, 
174, 219 
Laval’: 
Guy de, 144 
Hugh de, 69 
Le Cacheux, M. Paul, 80” 
Leathley, Leleia, Hugh de, 217 
Lecherbi, William de, 117 
Leeds, Ledes : 
church of St. Peter, 195-6 
Duke of, muniments of, xi, 1597; 
and see Thomas 
Paulinus the priest of, 195-6 
William son of Thomas de, 196 
Lees, Miss Beatrice, 94 
Leicester, abbey of St. Mary de Pré, 
10 
earl of, 9n, 240; and see Robert 
Leicestershire, 9 
and see Belvoir, Croxton 
Leigh (Surrey), Leghe, church, 123 
Leising, Lesing, 192 
son of Herbert, 229-31 
Henry son of, see Eland 
Leland, John, 40 
Leleia. See Leathley 
Lenveise, -veyse : 
Hamo, 136 
Sir John, 177 
Lescure (Normandy, nr. Rouen), 
Seurra ooo 
Lesing. See Leising 
Lessingham (Norfolk), 6 
Lethebroch, Richard de, rector of 
Wakefield, 247 
Letton (Norfolk), Leton, 91 
Leudo, 52-3 
Leventhorpe, Lewintorp, John de, 
209 


Leveteflat, 193 
Levitt. See Livet 


Lewes (Sussex), -is, Leuuas, Leuwes, 
Lewiae, 4, 17, 28, 56, 58-9, 
64, 89, 94 
borough, ix, 81, 85x, 88-90 
burgesses, 50, 97-8 
castle, 63, 72 
castlery, 3n 
church of St. Pancras, 54-5 
earl’s court at, 35 
gild-merchant, 97-8 
honour of, 24 
prefecture, 97-8 
rape, vin, 3, 21, 24 
sheriff (honorial), 97-8, 241-2; 
and see Adam, Hugh,Mence- 
court, Pain, Peter, Plump- 
ton, William 
steward of, 243 
Pilec(h)erestrete in, 89, 90 
John the clerk of the [rural] 
dean of, 175 
Lewes priory, domus Latisaquensis, 
priory of St. Pancras, 
v-xi, 4, 6, 7, 9, 10”, 12, 13, 
P7eo208 25) 27-8 30-1, 33, 
36-8, 40, 43-4, 55-78, 82, 
84-92, 95-7, 99-111, 119-23, 
129, 131, 134, 148”, 156-61, 
163, 165-6, 171-5, 178, 190, 
ZO. 9218-204 227, 236. 
246-7, 249, 251n, 253 
bailiff and warden of, see Conis- 
borough 
chamberlain, see Maino 
, office of, 236 
chapter-house, 5, 8, 14, 19 
charter of foundation, v, vi, 
xi, 54-5 
charters, original, in P.R.O. and 
B.M., v-vii, ix-xi 
, classification of, vi, vii 
, endorsements on, vi-ix 
chartulary, vi-xi, xii, 8”, 9n, 
13n, 14, ldn, 19n, 25n, 
26n, 36, 43-4, 55, 59, 61, 
64-8, 85, 126, 252 
dedication of church, 63-4, 84 
guests, 108-9 
infirmarer, 89 : 
monks, see Mencecourt, Peter, 
Simon 
priors, 37-8, 97-8, 144, 157-8, 
161, 218, 247n, 248, 253 
and see Albert, Alexander, 
Hubert, Hugh,  Lanzo, 
Osbert, William 
——., methods of appt., 20, 60-1, 
119-22 
proctor, see Wormegay 
rebuilding, alleged, 58x 
register, 12th cent., vili, 38”, 
57, 60, 67 
steward, see William 


280 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Lewes priory—continued 
sub-prior, 121 
Lewin, 79 
Lewintorp. See Leventhorpe 
Lexington, Henry de, 148 
Lichfield, church of, 254 
Lifreseg. See Liversedge 
Ligulf, bridge of, 83 
Lillands (Rastrick), Lin-, 230 
Lillebonne (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Inf., arr. Le Havre), 24 
Lilleshall (Shropshire), abbey, 36 
——., chartulary, 36n, 37 
Limoges (France, dept. Haute- 
Vienne), 18x 
Lincoln, 19 
battle of, 12 
bishop of, 219; and see Remigius 
canon of, see Melide 
earl of, see Lascy 
St. Katherine’s priory, x, 20, 
Vi7-8, 127 
Lincolnshire, 3n, 110, 126, 145 
coroner for, 249 
sheriff of, 24, 25, 249 
and see  Aslackby, Carlton 
Scroop, Crowle, Grantham, 
Greetwell, Holland, Rusk- 
ington, Sandtoft, Stamford 
Lindebone, William de, 126 
Lindholme (Hatfield), 118-9, 127 
Lindley, Old (Stainland), Linlay, 
Lynnelay, 179, 180, 201, 
291-50 229) 232. 245.4249, 
251 
manor, 221 
moor, 222, 224 
‘heya’ of, Je Haghe, 223-4 
Lines, William de, 111 
Linkfield, Linkefeld, Walter de, 128 
Linthwaite, Lindthait, 220 
John de, 198 
Lisle, de Insula, Ralph de, 83, 185 
, William his son, 83, 185 
Lisours, Lisurs : 
Fulk de, 138, 168 
Robert de, 167 
, Aubreye his wife, see 
Lascy 
——, dame Aubreye his dau., 
wife of William de Clerfai 
and William son of Godric, 
20n, 157, 167 
——, ——, her serjeants, see 
Thomas, William 
Lister, Mr. John (of Shibden), 230n 
Littum, Jordan de, 117 
Liversedge, -seg, Lifreseg, Lyuerseg’, 
£7 t> 203 
Henry son of Robert de, 193, 
201 
Robert de, 191-2, 198, 201, 231 


Livet, Levitt, Lyvet : 
Hugh de, chaplain of earl 
Hamelin, 124, 228 
William de, earl’s_ steward, 
113, 117-8, 127, 130-1, 
15571670170) 472; 213. 255, 
247, 220, 228n) 2825 237, 
244-5 
——, William his son, 131, 170, 
244-5 
—-, —, Custance [?] his 
wife, see Wickersley 
Lond, 166 
London, Lond’, de Londoniis, de 
Lundoniis, 13, 47 
bishop of, 122; and see William 
John of, 108 
Sir Roger of, 176-7; and ef. 
Lund 
Sir William of, - clerk, earl’s 
steward (of Wakefield), [?] 
rector of moiety of Kirk- 
burton, 156, 247-8 
William of, 108 
Longchamp, de Longo Campo, 
William de, bishop of Ely, 
legate, kg’s chancellor, 125 
Longueville (Normandy, dept. 
Seine-Inf., arr. Dieppe), 
Longavilla, 81 
priory of Sainte-Foi, 9, 10, 74, 
80-1 
Longvillers, -evilerz, family, 196 
John de, 196x, 236 
John de (the younger), 183 
, dame Margaret his dau., 
wife of [Geoffrey] de Neville 
180, 183, 196” 
Lonsdale (co. Lancaster), 10 
Lorraine, duke of. See Henry 
Loudun (Touraine), 18 
Louis VII, king of France, 13x 
Lound(e), de Lundo, Peter de, du, 
steward of Wakefield, 
249-50 
Louvetot (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Inf., arr. Dieppe, cant. 
Bellencombre, comm. Grig- 
neuseville), Louueautuit, 
125-6 
Lovel, Luvell(us), William, 97, 101 
Loversall, Luuresale, 166-7, 168” 
Loyd, Mr. L. C., xii, xiii, 1n, 3x, 202, 
31n, 42n, 45, 48n, 54, 59n, 
72n, 126 
Lucas, Alexander, earl’s steward and 
of Wakefield, 249 
Lucius III, pope, 104-5 


Lucy, Luci : 
Godfrey de, bishop of Winch- 
ester, 125 


Richard de, 47, 159 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 


Ludham, -Walter de, steward of 
Edmund de Lascy, of Ponte- 
fract, 197, 247 

Luffield (co. Northampton), priory, 9 

Luke, John son of, kg’s clerk, bishop 
of Evreux, 120 

Luna. See Lynn 

Lund’, Roger de, 124 

and see Lound 
Lundoniis, de. See London 


Lupset, 228 
Lusignan, Ralph, Raoul de, count of 
Eu, 227, 23 


——, Alice his wife, see Henry 
count of Eu 
Luterel, Geoffrey, 141, 148 
———, Frethesant his wife, see 
Paynel 
Luuresale. See Loversall 
Luvellus. See Lovel 
Lynn, Luna, river, 57 
marsh, 70 
Lynnelay. See Lindley 
Lyons-la-Forét (Normandy, dept. 
Eure, arr. Les Andelys), 8 
Lyuerseg’. See Liversedge 
Lyvet. See Livet 


Magnaville. See Mandeville 
Maidinton, William de, 127 
Maigno Brito, 39 
Maine, adj. Cenomanensis, counts 
of, 118 
campaign in, 4 
Mainfeninus. See Meinfelin 
Maino, chamberlain of Lewes priory, 
- 160 
Main’res. See Meiners 
Major, Miss K., 253 
Malbanc, -benc, William, 36 
Malcobla. See Maucomble 
Malcolm : 
III, king of Scotland, Maud 
dau. of, wife of kg Henry I, 
7, On 
IV, king of Scotland, earl of 
Huntingdon, 11 ; 
Malet : 
family (of Normanton), 226 
Hugh, 248n 
Reiner, 204 
Robert, 16 
Roger, 226n 
Maleveisinus. See Hersy 
Malger : 
archbishop of Rouen, 53 
bishop of Worcester, 121 
the notary, 161 
Mallett, Mr. Richard, MS. of, 226n, 
227 
Malling (Sussex), Melling, 69 
Maltby, Malte-, rector of. See Adam 


nw 
on) 
— 


Maltevilla. See Motteville 
Mander, Mr. G. P., 254 
Mandeville, Magna- : 
honour of, 51 
Baldwin de, 82 
Geoffrey I de, 51 
Manewden (Essex), 36 
Manneriis, Reginald de, 117 
Mapledurham Gurney (co. Oxford), 
manor, 6 
Marca, Osbert de, 126, 128 
Mare, William de la, 130 
Mare villa. See Marvile 
Mareis, de Marisco : 
Adam del, 172, 175 
Henry de, 118, 127 
Margery, [?] wife of Halegrim, 229 
Marr, manor, 149 
Marshal, Maud daughter of William 
earl of Pembroke, wife of 
Hugh Bigod earl of Norfolk 
and of William 6th earl de 
Warenne, 25, 133-4, 148, 
176-7, 233-4, 247 
——., her chaplain, see Ottele 
——, her stewards, see Calton, 
Narford 
Martigny, de Martinneio, William de, 
126 


Martin, abbot of Chertsey, 121 
Martock (Somerset), 50-1 
manor, 47 
Marvile, Mare villa, Mareville, Elias 
de, 130, 132-3 
Mason, Mazon, Richard le, 167 
Massingham (Norfolk), Masinga-, 
Massinga-, Massinge-, 92 
Matthew, 173 
Maucomble, Malcobla, William de, 81 
Maud, empress, 14n 
Mauduit : 
Maud, wife of Hamo son of 
Meinfelin, 39 
William, 39 
Mauley, honour of, 245 
Maurelio, de monte. See Mont- 
morillon 
Maurice : 
kg’s chancellor, 55 
the priest [? rector] of Harthill, 
157 
———, Robert: his brother, 157 
Mauzin, William, 157 
May (co. Fife), priory, 27 
Maynard, bailiff of Sowerby, 208, 252 
2 Elias hiss bro.) eseey ish- 
worth 
Mazon. See Mason 
Mealton, Meautun. See Melton 
Meaux, Melsa, Meus, family, 189 
Sir John de, 188-9, 210” 
, Amice his wife, see 
Everingham 


282 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Meaux—continued - 
Sir John de (younger), 210” 
- John de (of Berwick), 189 
Thomas de, 189 
Meeching (mod. Newhaven, Sussex), 
Mecinges, Mech-, 105-6 
mills, 28, 33, 105-7 
Meiners, Main’res, Medmeres, -nar’, 
Richard de, 128-30, 134 
Meinfelin, Mainfeninus Brito, 39 
Hamo son of, 39, 40 
, Maud his wite, see Mauduit 
——, Hamo his son, 39 
——, his carta, 39 
Meinillo, ae. See Aumenil 
Melewde, -wolda. See Methwold 
Melide, mag. Peter de, canon of 
Lincoln, 164, 253 
Mellent. See Meulan 
Melling. See Malling 
Melsa. See Meaux 
Melton, Meal-, family, 31 
Peter de; 3ln 
Melton Constable, Peter de, 31; and 
see Peter the. constable 
Melton-on-the-Hill, Meal-, Meautun, 


manor, 25” 
Mencecourt, -cort, -curt, Menchecurt, 
Mengecurth, Guy . de, 
sheriff and monk of Lewes, 
[?] 76, 85-7, 93, 241-2 
, William his son, 85-7, 242n 
Merc’, William de, 113 
Merley, Geoffrey de, 33n 
Meschin, William, 9 
Methwold (Norfolk), Melew’d, -wde, 
-wolda, Molewold, 91, 94, 
109, 135 
fen, 134-5 
Meulan (France, dept. Seine-et- 
Oise), Mellent, counts of. 
See Beaumont, Waleran 
Meus. See Meaux 
Michael, the chaplain, 177 
Michelham (Sussex), priory, 21 
Micklebring (Braithwell), Miclebrinc, 
ix, 248n 
Adam de, 159, 170 
Hugh de, 170 
Peter de, 170 
Robert de, 170 
Middlesex. See Clerkenwell 
Middlestown (Thornhill), 209 
Middleton (Suffolk), Midel-, 36-7 
advowson, manor, 37n 
Middleton, Midel-, Matthew son of 
Adam de, rector of Rad- 
cliffe, 221 
——, Adam his father and 
Richard his grandfather, 
pam | 


' Midgley (Halifax), 


Miggelay, 178, 
210”, 233 
Ivo the clerk of, 233 
Midgley (Shitlington), Migeleia, 
Miggeley, 189, 209-10, 215 
Little, 210-2, 216-7, 244 
Milo, mag., canon of Beverley, 108 
Mirfield, -feild, Mirefeld, -felt, Miri- 
feud, 203 
Adam de, 195, 216-7, 221 
Serlo de, 217 
Misterton, Ralph and Thosold de, 
172 


Mohaut, Mu-, de Montealto, Huge 
de, 188 
——, lsolda his wife, 188 
, Eve and Juliana 
her sisters, 188 
Molescumba. See Moulscombe 
Molewold. See Methwold 
Monchy, Drew de, 7 - 
——, Edith his’ wife, see 
Warenne (lst earl) 
——., Drew his son, 7 
Monk Bretton, priory, 143, 187, 206 
Monmouthshire. See Tintern 
Montdidier, de Mundesonero, Pain 
de, master of the Temple in | 
France, 94 
Monte alto, de. See Mohaut 
Montfichet, Richard de, 33 
——, Milisent his wife, 33 
Montfort, Robert de, 8” 
Montgomery, Roger de, earl [of 
Shrewsbury], 32, 36, 58 
Montmirail (France, dept. Sarthe), 
lords of, 5” 
Montmorel (Normandy, dio. . Av- 
ranches), 18” 
Montmorillon (Poitou, dept. Vienne), 
-un, de monte Maurelio, 
Mundmorelun, Muntmoril-, 
18” 
hospital of, 17, 18, 51 
Morcard, William son of, 111-2 
Mordinges. See Morthen 
Moreton, 40 
Moreton Morrell (co. 
40n 
Moretonia. See Mortain 
Moreville, Richard de, 88 
Morhing, Moring. See Morthen 
Morker, Morkel, family, 226 
Robert, 141, 169, 226 
Walter le, 226-7 
, Maud, Emma, Isabel his 
daus., 226-7 
William (son of), 226 
Morley, 185 
church in the wood, see Wood- 
kirk 
wapentake, 178n, 179-80, 185 


Warwick), 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 283 


Mortagne (Normandy, dept. Orne), 
count of. See Geoffrey 
Mortain (Normandy, dept. Manche), 
Moretonia, Moritonium : 
comté, 16-18, 48, 50, 240 
, castles of, 16 
counts of, see Robert, Blois 
nuns of St. Mary, 49 
Mortemer, de Mortuo Mari, family, 
xiii 
Robert de, 77 
Robert de (of Attleborough), 
126 
Roger de, 2, 3, 54 
Roger II de, 55 
Roger de (younger), 132 
William de, earl’s steward, 243 
Mortemer-sur-Eaulne (Normandy, 
dept. Seine-lnf., arr. 
Neufchatel), 23, 126 
casue: 3, 15,16, 20." 26 


Morthen (Whiston), Mordig, 
-dinges, -hing, -ing, -thyng, 
102, 139%” 
John de, 139 
William de, 155, 170-1 
Motteville-l’ Esneval (Normandy, 


pays de Caux), Maltevilla, 
53 


church, 52 
Moulscombe (Sussex), Molescumba, 
Mules-, Mulis-, 71 
Mowbray : 
fee in Normandy, 183n 
John, son of the duke of Nor- 
folk, earl de Warenne and 
of Surrey, 241n 
Roger de, 7, 115, 183 
Thomas de, duke of Norfolk, 62, 
86n 
William de, 183x 
Muhaut. See Mohaut 
Mundesonero, de. See Montdidier 
Mundmorelun, Muntmoril-. See 
Montmorillon 
‘Munkeflet’, 82 
Musard, Amice, wife of Anker de 
Frescheville, 162 
Musters, -teres, Geoffrey de, 172 


Narborough (Norfolk), 32 
Narford (Norfolk), Neir-, Ner-, 247” 
family, 247n 
Adam de, sheriff of Yorkshire, 
steward of css. de 
Warenne, 236, 243n, 247 
Neelet’, Anselm de, 118, 127 
Netherton (Thornhill), 209 
Neufchatel-en-Brai (Normandy, 
dept. Seine-Inf.), 23 
castle, 13 


Neufmarché, Neumarche, New- 
march, Novi Fori, de Novo 
Foro, Mercato : 
fees, 71, 84, 112m, 139-61, 169, 
244 
the name, 142 
family, xiii, 142-5, 147-9 
(of Hickleton), 141, 212 
pedigree, 141 
Adam I de, 141-3 
(Sir) Adam II de, kg’s justice, 
139-41, 144, 146, 148-9, 
154, 156-7, 161, 163, 169, 
176 
——, Margery his dau., wife of 
Robert de Willoughby, 141, 
149 
Adam III de, 141, 146, 148”, 
149, 158 
Adam de (of Whatton), 141, 
1 


Bernard de, 58 
Henry son of Adam I de, 141-4, 
146, 148-9. 154, 169 
, Denise his wife, see Tilly 
Henry son of Henry de, 141, 
146m, 148-9, 154, 156, 169, 
176 
———, Frethesant his wife, see 
Paynel 
John son of Adam II de, 140-1, 
146, 148-9, 154 
John de (grandson of Adam III), 
147, 148n, 159 
Pain de, 141, 142 
Ralph de, 141, 142x 
Ralph son of Ranulf de, 143” 
Ranulf son of William de 
(Ranulf de  Hickleton), 
143m, 155, 212 
Sir Roger, 1457 
William de, 141-3 
- ——, Isabel his wife, see Wilard 
William [?] son of Ralph de, 
141-2 
——. his sister, wife of William 
de Whatton, 141, 142n 
Neville : 
family (of Hornby), 183n, 196” 
Alexander de, 156, 195 
Hugh de, 29, 30 
——, Joan his wife, see Curcy 
Sir John de, earl’s steward, 250 
John de (of Hornby), 183 
Margaret de, see Longvillers 
Ralph de, bishop of Chichester, 
ke’s chancellor, 175 
Walter de, 117 
William de, 183 
Amabel his wife, see 
Swain (Adam son of) 
—, Sarah his dau., wife of 
Thomas de Burgh, 183n 


284 HONOUR 


Newburn, Robert de, 20, 134-5 
, Ela his wife, see Hamelin 
Newdigate (Surrey), Niudegat’, 
chapel, 123 
Newhaven (Sussex). See Meeching 
Newland (Normanton), Hospital- 
lers at, 226 
Newmarch. See Neufmarché 
Newminster - (Northumberland), 
Novum Monasterium, 
abbot of. See William 
Newsham (co. Lancaster), 49 
Nichols, Mr. J. G., xii 
Nigel, 64 
the chaplain, 166, 173 
son-in-law of Godfrey de Pierre- 
pont, 71 
Norfolk, -folc, -folch, -fouk, North- 
folc, vii, 3, 16”, 26-8, 31-3, 
34n36, 37n, 44, 56, 60n, 
71-2, 76-9, 82, 88, 107, 132, 
242-3, 246, 249n, 252 
churches in, 91-2 
comitatus, 16 
, third penny of, 16 
duke of, see Mowbray 
earl of, 3; and see Bigod 
honorial barons of, 92 
sheriff of, 3ln 
mag. Gilbert of, 237 
and see Attleborough, Attle- 
bridge, Aylmerton, Barmer, 
Barsham, Binham, Burn- 
ham, Carrow, Castle Acre, 
Caston, Cawston, Clipstone, 
Denver, Dereham, Dersing- 
ham, Feltwell, Foulsham, 
Gimingham, Gresham, 
Gressenhall, Harpley, Hea- 
cham, Heydon, Hockwold, 
Kings Lynn, Lessingham, 
Letton, Massingham, Meth- 
wold, Narborough, Nar- 
ford, Norwich, Palgrave, 
‘Salingeford’, Santon, Scot- 
tow, Shernborne, Shippy, 
Slevesholme, Southburgh, 
Stow Bardolph, Tattersett, 
Thetford, Threxton, Trunch, 
Tuddenham, Walton, Wil- 
ton, Wood Rising, Worme- 
gay, Wymondham 
Norgate, Miss, 43 
Norham (Northumberland), 214” 
Norland (Halifax), Nord-, 252. 
Matthew de, 224, 232 
Norman, 227 
Normandy, x, xiii, 2, 3, 4n, 6-8, 12, 
13, 140, 15- 17, 18, 19, 
20, 22-4, 25n, 26, 41, 62, 76. 
81, 133, 142”, 147, 178n, 
183n, 243 
dukes of, 44; and see Henry, 


OF WARENNE 


Normandy—continued 
Richard, Robert, William 
seneschal of, see William son 
of Ralph 
Normans, lands of the, 25 
Normanton, -tun, ix, 169, 179, 180, 
226-7 
advowson, 226-7 
church, rectory, 179, 226-7, 
44n 
priest at, 179 
rector, see Bernard 
Ternaldus de, 174 
Normanville, family, 1437 
Ralph de, 130, 133 
Northampton, 160 
councils at, 8, 19 
earl of, see St. Liz 
Northamptonshire, 50 
and see Luffield, Wyke 
Northamton, Robert de, 215, 2317 
Northease (in Rodwell, Sussex), 
manor, 21 
Northfolc. See Norfolk 
Northmanton, Robert ov John de, 
231 
Northowram (Halifax), 179, 180, 
192.252 
Northumberland, 143n 
earls of, see Henry, William 
(the Lion) 
and see Bothal, Brinkburn, 
Earsdon, Newminster, Nor- 
ham, Stamfordham, Trit- 
lington, Tynemouth 
Norton (co. Chester), priory, 233-4 
Norwich, 16 
archdeacon of, 136; and see W. 
bishop of, 46”; and see Herbert, 
John, Pandulf, William 
castle, 3n, 16 
Nostell priory, canons of St. Oswald, 
Nostla, -lad, -lat, -lath, 
x; 14.083, 20,°83-4.298-3) 
115, 145, 149-55, 170, 185, 
193, 205-6, 208-9, 250 
prior, 188 
cell of, see Woodkirk 
Nottingham, Nothinge-, 
119-20 
councils at, 7, 19, 46 
archdeacon of, see Testard 
Robert de, rector of Almondbury, 
194 
Nottinghamshire, 162, 224 
sheriff of, 24, 25”, 34 
and see Blyth, Bridgeford, Clip- 
stone, Felley, Grove, Os- 
berton, Retford, Rudding- 
ton, Southwell, Upton, Wes- 
ton, Whatton, Worksop 
Novi Fori, de Novo Foro, Mercato. 
See Neufmarché 


Noting-, 


INDEX OF’ PERSONS AND PLACES 285 


Novum Monasterium. See New- 
minster 
Nuneham Courtney (co. Oxford), 29 
advowson, church, 29 


Ockley, Occeleia, Maurice de, 124 
Octavian. See Victor 
Oddo, the priest, 101 
Odo, bishop of Bayeux, 4, 5, 55-6 
and see Eudo 
Oldham (co. Lancaster), Aldholm, 
rector of. See William 
Orbera, Orib’a. See Horbury 
Ordericus Vitalis, 2, 5, 6”, 8, 40, 
42n, 44 
Ording, Peter, 166 
Orm, Horm : 
Adam son of, 204, 230 
Robert son of, 157 
Osbert : 
the archdeacon, steward of 
Hugh de Tilly, 145” 
the cook, 81 
prior of Lewes, 104, 253 
mag., rector of Silkstone, 248 
Osberton (co. Nottingham), 225 
Osmund : 
bishop of Salisbury, 8, 57 
the dispenser of William de 
Warenne II, 75-8, 252 
Ossett (Dewsbury), Oselesete, Osol-, 
Osseleset, 179, 184, 212, 
228-9, 245, 251 
William son of Adam de, 228 
Ostur, Richard, 118, 127 
Osulfi Villa. See Auzouville 
Ottele, Richard de, chaplain of css. 
Mande 77 
Ovenden (Halifax), 205 
Overton (Thornhill), 209 
Ovingdean (Sussex), Ouingedene, 119 
Owram, Houerum, -un, Huuerum, 
Uuerum : 
Henry de, 200, 222, 224, 232 
Henry son of Gregory de, 233 
john de, 192, 207 
, Agnes his dau., wife of 
Gilbert de Lascy, 192 
Thomas son of Gregory de, 233 
Oxford, adj. Oxenefordensis, 357 
archdeacon of, see Walter 
Oxfordshire, 3x 
sheriff of, 29, 30 
and see Mapledurham, Nuneham, 
Shelswell 


P. the rural.dean, 123 
Pagaham, John de, 84 
Pain, Paganus, 91 
the clerk, 119 
reeve of Heacham, 57-8, 60 


Pain—continued 
sheriff of Lewes, 241n 
the water-bailiff of Thorne, 
bis=4 2015, 1277 176, 252 
, Robert his son, 176 
Gilbert son of, 191 
Robert son of, 172 
Paitvin. See Peitevin 
Palgrave (Norfolk), 45 
Pandulf; bishop of Norwich, 136 
Pangdean (Sussex), Pingedena, 88 
church, 88 
Parva Sandale. See Sandal (Kirk) 
Passeleue, Robert, 175 
Passemere, William, 188 
Patcham (Sussex), 71 
Patrick': 
earl of Salisbury, 13, 96, 104, 159 
———, Ala or Ela his wife,- see 


Talvas 

————, .Patrick his son, 13, 96, 
123, 158-9 

——, Philip his son, 13, 103-4, 
| Gees Fad SS) 


———, Walter his/son, 13,1597 
——, William his son, see 
William earl of Salisbury 
sub-prior of Durham, 166 
Paul, prior of Slevesholme, 135-6 
Paulinus, 112 
the clerk, 172 
priest of Leeds, rector of St. 
Peter’s hospital, 195-6 
John son of, 112 
Pavilly, de Pavilliaco, Ancellinus de, 
Paynel : 
Frethesant dau. of William, 
wife of Geoffrey Luterel and 
Henry de Neufmarché, 141, 
148 
Fulk, 254 
Gervase, 254 
Ralph, 196 
Ralph son of Fulk, 254 
Ralph (younger), 214” 
——, his wife, see Wake 
William son of Fulk, 254 


Peitevin, Paitvin, Peytivin : 


family (of Altofts), 226 
Hugh le, 226 
Roger le, 226-7 
Roger son of Thomas le, 226 
Thomas, 196 
Thomas son of Roger le, 226 
, Isabel his wife, 226 
William, 119 
William the younger, 119 
Pembroke, earl of. See Marshal 
Penistone, Peningestun : 
John de, 204 
William de, 204 
Percy, Perci, fee, 108, 145” 


286 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Percy—continued 

Alice daughter of William de, 146 
, her son, see Puiset 

William de, 138 

William son of Robert de, 145 
Pereponte, de. See Pierrepont 
Péronne (France, dept. Somme), 


count of. See Ralph 
Peters: 
chancellor of Durham priory, 
166 


the clerk of Wakefield, 157 
the constable, 28, 31-2; and see 
Melton 
——, Alice his wife, see Warenne 
(Reginald de) 
the dean, 112 
king of the heralds, 213 
mag., 165 
monk of Lewes, 109 
rector of Doncaster, see Don- 
caster 
sheriff of Lewes, 64, 73-4, 76, 
241 
earl’s steward, 249 
brother of John the priest of 
Conisborough, 157 
son of Assolf, see Assolf 
-son of Henry, 167 
son of Iggi, 201 
Adam son of, see Birkin 
Petraponte, de. See Pierrepont 
Pevensey (Sussex), Pevenesellum, 5 
castle, 16 
honour of, 16, 17, 22, 24”, 47, 49 
lord of, 21 
siege of, 4, 59 
rape, 24 
Peverel of Dover, honour of, 51 
Peytivin. See Peitevin 
Philip, 38; and see Burnham 
mag., scriptor of charter, 132 
son of Saxe, 211 
Adam son of, see Shitlington 
Philip Augustus, king of France, 24 
Pickburn, Pikeborne, -burne, 245 
Jordan de, 174-5 
Picot, Pichot : 
Henry, constable of Conis- 
borough, 113-6, 145, 147, 
152-3, 1722251 
——, Lettice his wife, see 
Bosville 
Robert, the clerk (of Barn- 
borough), 111, 170 
Pierrepont, de Pereponte, Petra-, 
Petre-, Petro- : 
Beatrice daughter of Hugh de, 
[?} wife of- William de 
Warenne of Wormegay, 
33-4 
Godfrey de, 58-9, 65, 70-3 
—, Nigel his son-in-law, 71 


Pierrepont—continued 
Hugh de, 33, 76, 85, 87, 89, 90, 
94, 98 
Randulf de, 128 
Richard de, 158 
Robert de, 71-2 
Robert de (younger), 85, 98 
Robert de (IIT), 122, 128, 173 
Simon de, 119, 158 
Simon son of Robert de, 173 
William de, 85-90, 99 
Wiliam (son of Godfrey) de, 
65, 71,73, 76 
Pikeborne. See Pickburn 
Pikenot, Pich-, Robert, bailiff and . 
constable of Tickhill, kg’s 
justice, 114-5, 1437 
——, his nephew, 114n 
Pillerton Hersey (co. Warwick), 225 
advowson, 225 
Pingedena. See Pangdean 
Pinkeny, Pinchenni, Hugh de, 78-9 
, William his son, 78-9 
, —— , his sister, 78-9 
Pipard, Gilbert, 120 
Pipekyn, William, 166 
Pirel’, William de, 124 
Pit, Aldwin del, 135 
Plaiz, \Plaeiz, :Plaix, “PlayzarFileiz, 
family, 112, 246 
Hugh de, clerk, 246 
Hugh son of Ralph de, 246 
(Sir) John de, le, clerk, earl’s 
steward, 130, 13ln, 136, 
201,213, 217, 222-4) 228, 
2ae, 204) 240-75 201 
Ralph de, 10”, 85, 87, 89,90; 
98,.101, 112, 246 
Ralph son of Ralph de, 112-4, 
199, 212251740128 


Plumpton (Sussex), Plompton, 
manor, 28 
church, 28 


Hugh de, sheriff of Lewes, 242 
Poitou :. 
Philip of, bishop of Durham, 214 
Roger of, 16, 48 
Pollington, Polingtun, Hugh de, 114 
Poninges. See Poynings 
Pont Audemer (Normandy, dept. 
Eure) lord. of, 9 
Pontefract : 
honour of, 69, 145, 167, 180-1, 
183, 184, 185-7, 190, 193-5, 
198, 201-2, 209-10, 217, 
222-3, 226-7, 236; and see 
Lascy 
——., lord of, 21, 167; and see 
Lascy 
, stewards of, see Butler, 
Hodroyd, Ludham 
priory, 69, 194, 209, 210, 217, 
244 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 287 


Pontefract—continued 

, prior, see Adam 
rural dean and chapter, 219 
Newmarket in, 142 

Ponthieu (Picardy), counts of. See 


Guy, Talvas 
Portmort (Normandy, dept. Eure), 
126 


Portmort (Normandy, dept.. Seine- 
Inf., arr..and cant. Neuf- 
chatel, comm. . Flamets- 
Frétils), Portemort, 126 

Robert de, 125-6 - 

Portslade (Sussex), Portes-, 347, 35 
advowson, 33, 160 
manor, 35 

Portsmouth, 120. 

Poynings (Sussex), Poninges, Pun- 
ing-,. Punning-, Ponyng, 
Punig’, Puning, 88 

church, 88 
family, 88 
Adam I de, 85-8 
——, Beatrice his wife, 88 
ot , Aubreye his dau., 88 
Adam <Lt “de, 88; 112-3, 119, 
124-7, 158, 160, 227 
John de, 93 
Michael de, 136 

Préaux (Normandy, dept. Eure), 
abbey of St. Pierre, 1 

Preston, family, 2107 

Adam IV de, 210” 

‘Puchepole’, mill of, 87 

Puiset, Pusaz, de Pusat, Putheaco, 
del Puisat : 

Henry du, 141, 144-8, 153-4, 169 

, Denise his wife, see Tilly 

, his steward, see Bosville 

Hugh du, bishop of Durham, 47, 
120, 146 - 

Pulcher, R., 97 

Puninges. See Poynings 

Purcel, Richard, 195 


Quarmby (Huddersfield), Querme-, 
139, 181-2, 184 
constabulary, 181n 
manor, 181 
William de, 181 
Querceto, de. See Chesney 
Quercu, Nicholas de, 203 
Quick (Almondbury), 179 


Radcliffe (co. Lancaster), Radecliva, 
203 


rector, see Middleton 
family, 203” 

Adam de, 203 

Richard de, 203 
William de, 202-3, 212-3 


Radcliffe—continued 
, Eugenia his wife, 203, 
213n 
, Margery his dau., wife of 
Hugh de Hartshead, 203n, 
213n 
Rading’. See Reading 
Ragedale, Bernard, 160 
Ragged, Thomas le, earl’s forester, 
252 
Rainald : 
Anglicus, 52 
brother of abbess of St. Amand, 
Rouen, 80. 
count of Burgundy, 53” 
, Adelis his wife, see Richard 
(duke) 
——, Guy his son, see Brionne 
son of Brito, 83-4, 185, 190 
and cf. Reginald ; 
Rainer, abbot of Holy Trinity, 
Rouen, 52-3 
and cf. Reiner 
Rains, William de, 170 
‘Rakeburg’ (Sussex), Rige-, 105-6 
Ralph : 
archbishop of Canterbury, 4, 37, 
62, 65-9, 73, 75-6, 92, 106 
bishop of Chichester, 63-4, 69, 
76 
the canon, 119 ; 
the chaplain, 161, 169 
—— at Thorpe, 167 
the clerk of Hipperholme, 
scriptor of charter, 199, 200 
—— of Reginald de Warenne, 
119 
—— of Rosay, 81 
count of Péronne, 11n 
husband of Beatrice de Warenne 
[? in evvor], 34, 253 
nepos, 128 
prévot of abbot of St-Victor, 127 
steward, king’s, 55 
the vintner, 101 
son of Dolfin the [rural] dean, 
174 
son of Hugh son of Walter, 
208-9 
son of Ralph, 63, 71-2 
son of Stephen, 80 
son of William son of Istannus, 
81 
Everard son of, 157 
Hubert son of (of Crich), 162 
, Juliana his dau., wife of 
Anker de Frescheville, 162 
William son of, 82 
William son of, seneschal of 
Normandy, 126 
Rames (Normandy, dept. Seine-Inf., 
arr. Le Havre, mr. Bolbec), 
lord of, 23 


288 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Ramsay, Sir J. H., 15” 
Ramsden, -din, Richard, 2307 
Ranulf, Randulf : 
the chaplain, 161, 169 
earl of Chester, 17n 
nepos, 38 
the priest, and chaplain of 
Thorne, 176-7 
the steward, 97 
son of Wilard, see Wilard 
William son of, 114 
William son of (ancestor of 
Blancmoster), 36-8 
Rastrick (Halifax), -tric, xiv, 179-80, 
185, 201, 229-31 
Hugh de, 223, 230 
Roger de, 200, 222, 230 
and see Lillands, Woodhouse 
Raven, Rauene, 110 
Peter, 233 
William son of, sheriff of Wake- 
field, 83-4, 110, 112, 141, 
144, 147, 149, 161, 168-9, 
242 


——, Mabel his dau., wife of - 


Otes de Tilly, 141, 144-5, 
147-9, 161, 163, 166-9, 226, 
244 
, ——., her seal, 169n 
Raven’s cross, 110 
Ravenchil, Uctred son of, 183 
Ravenescroswong, Ravennis  Cros- 
wang, cultura, 109-10, 172 
Ravenfield (nr. Rotherham), 
Ravens-, Ravenesfeld, 102, 
107-8, 138-9, 225 
lords of, 225 
Reading, Rading’, abbey, 18 
abbot, 219; and see Edward 
Refham, Richard de, 112-3 
Reginald : 
bishop of Bath, 125 
the clerk of earl Hamelin, 111 
the cook, 129 ; 
the priest (of Kirk Sandal), 
174-5 
scriptor of charter, 113-4 
son Of, Blas wliSs 12 ses 73s, 
214-6; and see Conisbor- 
ough, Soothill 
son of Philip, see Burnham 
and cf. Rainald 
Reigate (Surrey), Crechesfeld, 5 
church, 123 
Geoffrey the clerk of, 128 
Reiner : 
the clerk, 156 
deputy-sheriff of Yorkshire, see 
Waxham 
Gilbert son of, 89, 90 
and cf. Rainer 
Reineville, -vile : 
Adam de, 174 


= ia 


Reineville—continued 
Thomas de, 174 
Reinp’, brother Robert de, 166 
Remigius, bishop of Lincoln, 57 
Rennes (Britanny), bishop of. See 
Dinan 
Resingas. See Wood Rising 
Ressewrth. See Rishworth 
Retford, East (par. Clarborough, 
co. Nottingham), adv. of 
chapel, 225 
Reviers, Baldwin de, 29” 
———, Margaret his wife, _ see 
Curcy 


Henry de, 78 
Henry son of Hubert de, 28n 
Richard, 58, 227 
I, king, 18”, 19, 20, 24, 32, 49n, 
124-5, 150, 225 
abbot of Roche, 235-6 
of Selby, 189 
the chamberlain, 98, 119, 253 
the chaplain, 177 
of Conisborough, 172, 174-5 
of Hatfield, 176 
the clerk of Braithwell, 157, 
164-5 
—— of Hatfield, 176 
—— of Stainforth, 176 
dean of Chichester, 84 
I, duke of Normandy, 2, 42n 
, his wife, see Gunnor 
Il, duke of Normandy, Adelis 
dau. of, wife of Rainald 
count of Burgundy, 53n 
the priest of Braithwell, 165 
the reeve of Bramley, 169 
‘senescal’, 52 
son of Assolf, 206 
son of Engelram, 170 
son of Ferg’, 199 
son of Henry, see Henry 
son of Hugh, 173 
son of Jordan, 215 
son of Turgis, see Turgis 
son of Waltheof, 227 
, Bennet his wife, 227 
Richer, 159 
Richmond, Richemunde, Ryche- 
mond :_ 
castle, x 
earl of, see Conan 
honour of, 68, 182 
mag. Alan (de), 166 
Odo de, rector of Dewsbury, 209 
Ricoardus, 58, 71 
the archdeacon, 71 
the priest, 64 
son of Hunfichel, 119 
Rievaulx abbey, 210-2 
Rigeburg. See Rakeburg 
Riley (Kirkburton), -ay, 221 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 289 


Rishworth (Halifax), Ressewrth, 
Risse-, Rishewrhe, 201, 231- 
2, 244-5, 252 
Elias de, 207 
——, Eve his wife, see Holds- 
worth 
Elias de, bro. of Maynard the 
bailiff, 208, 252 
and see Wormald 
Riskinton. See Ruskington 
Roall, Ruhale, Otes de, 169 
Robert : 
archdeacon |of Chichester], 84 
bishop of Bath, 84 
the chaplain, 75 
the clerk, 160, 165 
—— of Blyth, earl’s steward, 
247 
de Frondonte, 166 
—— of Huddersfield, 224 
the constable, 75 
constitutor, 78 
count of Flanders, 7 
of Meulan, see Beaumont 
of Mortain, 4, 5, 58-9, 
138-9, 155, 1567 
the deacon of Doncaster, 165 
I, duke of Normandy, 1, 56 
son of kg William I, duke of 
Normandy, ‘de Courtois’, 
6-8, 178” 
earl of Leicester, 9, 11 
hosteler of Durham priory, 166 
mag., 165 
of the mill, 128 
the porter, 129 
prior of Holy Trinity, York, 
195-6 


rector of Sandal Magna, 193, 


201, 231, 237 

steward of William de Warenne 
LE 79 

brother of Maurice the priest, 
157 


son of Alexander, 135 
son of Dolfin, 204, 215 
son of Elias, 83-4, 185 
son of Gerbert, 112 
son of Gerbod, see Gerbod 
son of John son of Uctred, 199 
son of Orm, 157 
son of Pain, 172, 176 
son of Roger, 122, 208 
son of Simon, 159 
son of Stephen, 80 
Had’ son of, 167 
Rochdale (co. Lancaster), 192 
Roche abbey, de Rupe, -a, x, 21, 23, 
129, 133-5, 142, 144-5, 155, 
168-9, 184, 225-6, 245n 
abbot and prior, 162 
abbot, see Richard 
advowson of, 245 


Rocheford, Guy de, 130 
Rochester, adj. Roffensis, 5 

bishops of, see Ascelin, Gilbert, 

Gundulf 

castle and siege, 59 

church, 59 
Rockley, Rockel, Robert de, 191 
, Margery his wife, 191 
Roderham. See Rotherham 
Rodes, 102 

Peter de, 139” 

Roger de, 170 
Roger, 93, 227 

archbishop of York, 97-9, 102-3, 
T03,, 152; 220 

the chamberlain, 127 

——, Hugh his bro., 127 

the chaplain, 87-92, 99, 101, 166 

the clerk, 227 

fare ot Kirkburton, 221 

earl [of Shrewsbury], see Mont- 

' gomery 

earl of Warwick, 10 

——, Gundreda his wife, see 
Warenne (2nd earl) 

——, Gundreda his dau., wife 
of Hugh Bigod, e. of Nor- 
folk, and Roger de Glan- 
ville, 10, 11 

——, Margaret his dau., 10 

——, his sons, see Waleran and 
William, earls of Warwick 

the priest, 97, 196 

son of Doding, 220 

son of Hugh bishop of Cout- 
ances, see Hugh 

son of Roger, 1487 

son of Warin, see Warin 

son of William, 207 

son of Wimer, steward of 
William de Warenne II, 
78-9, 242 

——,: William his son, steward, 
242 

Robert son of, 122, 208 

Rollesby, Sir William de, 250 


Romsey (Hampshire), abbess of. 


See Stephen (king) 
Roquetoire (nr. St. Omer), 45 
Rosay (Normandy, dept. Seine-Inf., 

arr. Dieppe, cant. Bellen- 

combre), de Roseto : 
Ralph the clerk of, 81 
Walkelin de, 77 
Rossevill, Robert de, 114 
Rotherham, Roder-, 107-8, 1457, 
165, 245 
church and tithes, 108 
rectors, 165 
Rottingdean (Sussex), -dena, -edena, 
x, 21, 65, 76, 97, 134-5 
church, 65 


290) HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Rouen (Normandy), Rothomagus, 
adj. Rotomagensis, 1-3, 6, 
12, 14, 24, 52-4, 80 
abbey of Holy Trinity, 1-3, 
52-3 
, abbot, see Rainer 
abbey of St. Amand, 1, 9, 80; 
and see Rainald 
archbishop of, 126; and see 
Hugh, Malger 
dean of, 126 
region of, 8 
bro. Acelyn of, 94 
Etienne of, 14” 
Rouleby, Sir W. de, earl’s steward, 
250 


Round, Mr. J. H., vin, 3n, 5n, 180, 
40n, 46, 5ln, 71-2, 139, 
239-40 
Ruddington (co. Nottingham), 248 
_ rector, see Cooke 
Ruffin, Richard, 128 
Ruffus, le Rus : 
Guy, rector of Conisborough, 
103-4, 157 
William, 224-5 
, Isabel his wife, see Arches 
Ruhale. See Roall 
Rupe, de. See Roche 
Ruskington (co. Lincoln), Riskinton, 
34 


Ryling, Thomas, 161 


Sacsi. See Saxe 
St. Albans, 46x : 
St-Bertin (St-Omer), abbey, 45, 112, 
239-40 
——, abbot, 46n 
——, advocate of, 20, 45; and 
see Gerbod 
St-Denis (Paris), abbot of. See 
Suger 
St-Evroul (Normandy, dept. Orne, 
arr. Argentan), de Sancto 
Ebrulfo, abbey, 2, 9, 80 
St. George, Richard, 56n, 57” 
St. Laurence, Adam de, 132 
St. Liz, Simon II and III de, earls of 
Northampton, 17, 254 
St. Margaret, Walter de, 172 
_St-Martin (Normandy), 81 
St. Martin : 
Ralph de, 78 
William de, 132 
St. Mary, family, 190 
Jordan de, 190 
St. Neots (co. Huntingdon), prior of, 


225n 
St-Omer (France, dept. Pas de 
Calais), 45 


and see St-Bertin 
St. Oswald. See Nostell 
St. Osyth abbey (Essex), 49 


St-Ouen-sous-Bellencombre (Norm- 
andy, dept. Seine-Inf., arr. 
Dieppe), de Sancto Aud- 
oeno, Warin the priest of, 
127 

St. Paul, Nicholas de, 171 

St-Pierre-sur-Dives (Normandy, 
dept. Calvados, arr. Lis- 
ieux), castle,6 

St-Riquier (France, dept. Somme, 
arr. Abbeville), St-Ricarius, 


abbey, 45 
St-Saéns (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
int. earn: Neufchatel), 
castle, 7 
Elias de, 7 


Ste- Suzanne (Maine), castle, 4 
St-Victor-en-Caux (Normandy, dept. 
Seine-Inf.,. arr. Dieppe), 
abbey, 20, 126-7 
——, prév6ét of the abbot, see 


Ralph HNO) 
St-Wandrille . (Normandy, . dept. 
Seine-Inf,, arr. Yvetot), 
abbey, -1, 5” 


Sais, William de, 172 
‘Salingeford’ (Norfolk), 70 
Salisbury, adj. Saresberiensis : 
bishop of, 17; and see Herbert, 
Osmund 
church of, 8 
earls of, see Patrick, William 
Sallay, abbot of, See Walter 
Saltergate, Saltare-, 222, 224 
Saltman, Mr. A., 96 
Saltonstall (in Warley, Halifax), 
Saltunestal, 201, 212, 215-6, 
232-4 
Over and Nether, vaccaries, 232 
family, 232 
Salzman, Mr. L. F., vii, 59n, 66n, 
134 
Samson, abbot of Bury St: Edmunds, 
ou Le: 
Sancto Audoeno, de. See St-Ouen 
Sand Bramwith.. See Bramwith 
Sandal, Kirk, Minor or = Parva 
Sandale,. -all’, ix; 138, 
173-5 
church or chapel, 63, 86-7, 102, 
105, 107-8, 138, 163, 173-5, 
251 
priest at, 138 
Reginald the priest of, 174 
Adam de, 174 
Thomas son of Hugh de, 173-5 
William son of Thomas de, 175 
Sandal, Long, 138-9 
Sandal Magna, Major, -dala, -dale, 
ix, 178, 180, 228n, 237 
castle and manor, 140, 181, 183, 
190, 250, 251n 
church, 63-4, 86-7, 102, 105, 


INDEX OF’ PERSONS AND PLACES 291 


Sandal Magna—continued 
107, 178, 182, 193 
constables of, 251-2; and see 
Attell, Beaumont, Lang- 
feld, Sandal 
rector, see Robert 
tithes, 236 
John de, 214 
f?] Sinnula, Hugh de, 117, 157 
Paulinus de, 113 
Robert de, 191-2 
Thomas de, constable of Sandal 
and head forester, 252 
Sandeby : 
Hugh de, 225n 
Robert de, 225 
Sandford, Francis, 41 
Sandholm, le, Santhalm, 217 
Sandtoft (isle of Axholme, co. 
Lincoln), Santoft, 115 
cell of St. Mary’s York, 82-3 
——, custos of, 83, 114 
/———, monk of, 115. 
Santon (Norfolk), 91 —. 
Sartilleio, William de, 92 
Saurebisire. See Sowerbyshire 
Savile : 
Henry, 236 
Sir John, 192 
/ ——. Isabel his wife, see Eland 
Sawarby. See Sowerby 
Sawtrey (co. Huntingdon), abbey, 
; 37n, 47, 49, 51 
Saxe, Sacsi, 69, 70, 211-2; and see 
Horbury 
Matthew son of, see Horbury 
Philip son of, 211 : 
——, Adam his son, see Shit- 
lington 
Saxony, 26 
way: 
Baldwin de, 68 
, Wimarc his wife, 68 
Sir Geoffrey de, 130 
Geoffrey de, 122 
Scalers, de Scalariis : 
Stephen son of Richard de, 12 
ae ae de, 76 
Scargill, 2287 
family, 228 
Warin son of William de, 228 
Sir William de, 228 
, Joan his wife, see Breus 
William son of Warin de, 228 
Sceftling. See Skeffling 
Scepeley, Schepelay. See Shepley 
Schalecloh, 198 
Sciningburch, [? error for Conis- 
borough, q.v.] 
Scithlington. See Shitlington 
Scolland, x 
Scot, Robert, 174 
Scoteni, Lambert de, 126 


Scotland : 
kings of, see Alexander, Baliol, 
David, Malcolm, William 
(the Lion) 
=——— chamberlain of, see 
Valognes 
service against, 214 
Margaret of, see William (the 
Lion) = 
Maud of, see Malcolm 
and see May 
Scottow (Norfolk), Scotehou, Scute-, 
90-1 
Turold de, 90-1 
Scottus [?], mag. G., 164-5 
Scroby, Jordan de, 108 
Scurra. See Lescure 
Seaford (Sussex), 49 
Seffrid, bishop of Chichester, 120 
Segrave, Stephen de, kg’s justice, 175 
Selby, Selebi, -by, 187 
abbey, 189, 210 
——, abbot, 186-8; and see 
Richard 
——, chartulary, 187-9 
Selda, bridge of, 83 
Selden, John, 96 
Sele (Sussex), priory, 135 
—, chartulary, x, 134n 
Seluelay. .S¢é. Shelley 
Sempringham, Sempling-, order of, 
117-8 
Sepelaia, Seppelay. See Shepley 
Serapere, Brictwi, 88 
Sharlston, 179 
Shelf (Halifax), 179, 180” 


Shelley (Kirkburton),  Seluelay, 
Shelfleie, Skelflay, 139, 179, 
182, 221 
Robert de, 220 
Shelswell (co. Oxford), 171 
Shepley (Kirkburton), Scepeley, 


Schepelay, Sepelaia, -laya, 
-leia, -llai, Seppelay, Shep- 
ele, 1389, 179, 182-4, 246 

manor, 183 

family, 182, 184, 246” 

John son of Thomas de, 183, 246 

(Sir) Matthew son of Hugh de, 
earl’s bailiff and steward, 
130-4, 155, 163-4, 183n, 
184, 200, 209, 216, 232, 243, 
246-7, 252 

——, Matthew his son, 183m, 
184, 247 

_——, Avice his dau., wife of 
Nicholas de Bellun, 1837, 
247 

Thomas de, 183 

——., Margaret his wife, 183 

Thomas son of Matthew de, 246 

Shernborne (Norfolk), 28, 30 
Shibden (Halifax), 252 


292 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Shipley, 210 
Shippy (in Tilney All Saints, Nor- 
folk), Sipeam, 70 
Shitlington (Thornhill), Scithling-, 
Shilig-, Shitelyng-, Sitelin-, 
Sitling-, Silintona, Sitlig-, 
Sithintuna, 69, 70, 180, 
189n, 209-16, 244 
mill 210, 212 
wood, 214 
Middle (mod. Middlestown), 69, 
EOP 2T9, 20921. 
Nether (mod. Netherton), 209 
Over (mod. Overton), 209-10 
——, manor, 210, 214 
Philippi, 211 
Adam (son of Philip) de, 113, 
155-6, 191, 212, 214, 216-7, 
220 
——., Idoine his dau., 212 
——, his dau., wife of Adam de 
Kirkby, 212 
Shrewsbury, abbey, 50 
earl of, see Montgomery 
Shropshire, 3n, 36 
and see Ightfield, Lilleshall, 
Shrewsbury, Weston, Whit- 
church 
Sicily, king of. See William 
Sidlow mill (in Horley, Surrey), 
Sideluue, 124, 128 
Sigar, the palmer, 88 
Silkstone, rector of. See Osbert 
Sillac, vecte Fislac. See Fishlake 
Silvester, 166 
Simon, 173, 227 
bishop of Worcester, 967 
the chaplain of Criggleston, 193 
monk of Lewes, 109 
Robert son of, 159 
Singleton (co. Lancaster), -eltun, 48” 
Sinnula [? error for Sandala, q.v.] 
Sinodus, 88 
Sipeam. See Shippy 
Sitebutton |? vecte Sitelinton]. See 
Shitlington 
Sithintuna, Sitlington. See Shitlington 
Skeffling, Sceft-, Simon de, 189 
Skelbrook, 226 
Skelflay. See Shelley 
Skipton, honour of, 9, 183, 203-4, 
206 


Skircoat, -kotes, Eve de, 223 
Slevesholme (in Methwold, Norfolk), 
Sliuisholm, priory, 135-6 
, prior, see Paul 
Smeaton, Kirk, 244 
Snydale (Normanton), 227 
Somerset. See Bath, Martock 
Soothill, Sothil, -hill, -hull, -il, 252 
Sir John de, 207 
John de, 188, 224, 229 


Soothill—continued 
Michael son of Elias de, 185-9, 
209 
Reginald son of Elias de, 173, 
187, 205-6, 208, 216; and 
see Reginald son of Elias 
Robert de, 187 
Thomas de, 187 
William de, 188 
Sorbi, Sourebi. See Sowerby 
Southampton, priory of St. Denis, 30 
county, see Hampshire 
Southburgh (Norfolk), Berc, 91 
Southover (Sussex), church, 44 
Southowram (Halifax), 192, 201. 
and see Owram 
Southwark (Surrey), Suwrch, 123 
priory, 20, 27n, 28, 33-4, 123, 
159 
Southwell (co. Nottingham), chap- 
ter of, 148 
Southwood Green (Ossett), -wod, 228 
manor, 214, 228 
Sowerby (Halifax), Sawar-, Sorbi, 21, 
178, 233, 234n, 247 
manor, 25, 233 
bailiff of, see Maynard 
Sowerbyshire, Saurebisire, Sorbe-, 
Sourebi-, Soureby-, = 
21-2, 129, 201, 205-7, 209, 
231-6 
forest, woods, 234, 252 
steward of, see Henry 
Spinet’, 176 
Spot, Wulfric, 137 
Sprées’y 227 
Spriggi, William, steward of Giming- 
ham, 132, 243n 
Sprotborough, 20, 135, 138 
Staffordshire. See Lichfield 
Stagaldescroft, 152 
Stainforth, (Hatfield), -ford, Stein-, 
138 


Richard the clerk of, 176 
Ehas de, 158 
Thomas son of Elias de, 187 
Stainland (Halifax), 179, 180”, 181, 
271 
Stainton, Steintun, A. the clerk of, 
165 


Stainvilla, William de, 172 
Stamford (co. Lincoln), Staunforde, 
-ia, 24-5, 133 
dean of, and vicar of St. 
Andrew’s, see Alexander 
St. Michael’s priory, 133 
Stamfordham (Northumberland), 
1437 
Stanford: 
John de, clerk, 132 
mag. Robert de, official of Hugh 
rural dean of Doncaster, 
176 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 293 


Stangrin, the priest, 70 
Staninges, Reginald de, 248 
Stanlawe (co. Chester), abbey, 192n 
Stanley (Wakefield), -lay, 179, 185, 
223-4, 228n 
Roger son of Jordan de, 222-3 
Stansfield (Halifax), 178, 201n, 206, 
233 


Stansted Mountfichet (Essex), 33n 
Stapleton: 
Robert de, 236 
Mr. Thomas, In, 41-3, 45, 54, 
56”, 57n, 253 
Staunforde. See Stamford 
Staveley (co. Derby), 162 
Stayvill, Stei-, William de, 112-3 
Stein-. See Stain- 
Stelhall, Warin de, 161 
Stenton, Sir Frank, 27, 75, 110 
Stephen: 
king, count of Boulogne, 8, 
12-17, 26-7, 39n, 47-50, 
93-4, 151, 239 
——, queen Maud his wife, 13, 
49n 
——, Eustace his son, see 
Eustace 
———, William his son, see Blois 
——, William [?] his illegitimate 
son, 48-9 
———, Mary his dau., abbess of 
Romsey, wife of Matthew 
of Flanders, 18 
chaplain of William de Warenne 
Ti 4251 
count of Britanny, 68 
the porter, 166 
Ralph son of, 80 
Robert son of, 80 
Stilenius, Peter, 174 
Stonegrave, John de, 214 
, his wife, see Wake 
Stow Bardolph (Norfolk), 32 
Strafforth, wapentake, 138 
Streetthorpe (Kirk Sandal), 138 
Strie, Alan de, 166 
Stubbes, Alexander de, 177 
Stuteville, Stotivilla, family, 243 
Edmund de, 94° 
John de, 236 
W. de, 136 
and see Estouteville 
Suamberga. See Swanborough 
Sudkirkebi. See Kirkby 
Suellinus, 129 
Suffolk, 3, 27, 34n, 71-2, 88, 246 
sheriff of, 30, 3lu 
and see Blackbourn, Bradley, 
Bungay, Bury, Eye, Faken- 
ham, Ipswich, Middleton 
Suger, abbot of St-Denis, 13x” 
Suhtegeker, 231 
Summere, mag. W. de, 219 


Surrey, Sudreia, Suth-, Surregia, 
Suth-, Sut-, vii, x, 3n, 5, 
22, 40, 50-1, 132, 162n, 
4a, 200 
archdeacon of, see Inglesham 
deputy-sheriff of, 132n 
earldom, 4, 5, 7, 238-41 
earls of, see Warenne 
and see Bermondsey, Betch- 
worth, Chertsey, Dorking, 
Lambeth, Leigh, Newdi- 
gate, Reigate, Sidlow, 
Southwark, Westcott, Wit- 
ley 
Sussex, Vili, 3, 19,22, 62..71-2, 76, 
52,86, 88; 129,;. 173, 233, 
.241-3, 246, 253 
sheriff of, 26 
Record Society, vii 
and see Ardingly, Arundel, 
Atlingworth, Balcombe, 
Balmer, Barcombe, Battle, 
Brighton, Chailey, Chiches- 
ter, Clayton, Dencombe, 
Falmer, Fletching, Fulking, 
‘Gardeseye’, Hangleton, 
Harpingden, Hastings, 
Keymer, Kingston, Lewes, 
Malling, Meeching, Michel- 
ham, Moulscombe, New- 
haven, Northease, Oving- 
dean, Pangdean, Patcham, 
Pevensey, Plumpton, 
Portslade, Poynings, ‘Rake- 
burg’, Rottingdean, Sea- 
ford, Sele, Southover, 
Swanborough 
Suthsowerd’e, 102 
Suwrch. See Southwark 
Swain : 
son of Alric, 183, 211 
——, Adam son of, 157, 183, 
206, 246 
——, ——, Amabel his dau., 
wife of William de Neville, 
183 
son of Bernolf, see Bernolf 
son of Hugh, 112 
Henry son of, 157 
Waltef son of, 221 
and see Fixby 
Swanborough (Sussex), Suamberga, 
54-5, 72 
Sywardeby, vecte Sandeby, q.v. 


Tait, Professor, 15” 

Talvas, count of Ponthieu, William, 
13 

——, Ela or Ala his dau., wife 

of William de Warenne III 
and Patrick earl of Salis- 
bury, 13, 82, 93, 95-6, 104, 
110,°123;2158 


9 


Talvas (of Fixby), Taleuace, -uaz, 
-vas: 
Elias, 199, 200 
Henry, 199 
Ivo, 198-200, 222-3, 231-2 
John, 174, 199 
John, [?] rector of Halifax, 201n 
John son of Ivo (the clerk), 
222-4, 232; and see Fixby 
——, John, Thomas, Ivo, 
Henry his bros., 223n 
John son of John, 199 
Jordan, 22, 222, 224, 233 
Michael, 22, 233 
Robert, 199, 200 
Thomas, 199, 232 
William, 199, 232 
Tang. See Tong ' 
Tankersley, Tankerleya, Henry de, 
208 


Tattersett (Norfolk), 79 
Templars (of Jerusalem), 13, 17, 94, 
176- 
master of, in France, see Mont- 
didier 
and see Hirst 
Testard, mag. William, archdeacon 
of Nottingham, 156 
Teuelesby, Ralph de, 171 
Theobald: 
abbot of Cluny, 119-20 
archbishop of Canterbury, le- 
gate, 13, 69, 82, 84, 95-6 
(Norfolk), Ted-, Tef-, 
The-, Theo-, Teophord, adj. 
Teforensis, 20, 48, 93-4, 
124-5 
bishop of, see William 
borough, burgesses, 94 
churches, 91-4 
fair at, 93-4 
Cluniac priory, 68 
priory of Holy Sepulchre, 13, 
20, 93-4 
Adam the clerk of, 159 
Thinemuthe. See Tynemouth 
Thinglau, -eslawe. See Tingley 
Thom’ Haye, 188; and see haya 
Thomas: 
I, archbishop of York, 57 
II, archbishop of York, 96 
the clerk of Balne, 161 
dean of Chichester, 134n 
the dispenser, 161 
duke of Norfolk, see Mowbray 
earl of Danby and duke of 
Leeds, 159 
earl of Lancaster, 140, 181”, 240 
, his seal, 240 
rector of Fishlake, 175 
the reeve, 161 
serjeant of Aubreye de Lisours, 
167 a 


Thetford 


294 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Thomas—contin ued 

son of Assolf, 206 

son of Elias, 176 

son of Hugh, 159 

son of Isabel, 131 

son of William, 236 

William son of, 155, 191, 216 
Thorncliffe (Kirkburton), Thorne- 


tele, 220 
Thorne; . -a, Torne, -x, 82; “113-5, 
117-8, 127, 138-9, 163, 


176-7, 244, 251-2 
church or chapel, 63, 86-7, 102, 
105, 107, 134, 161 
manor, 140 
parish, 134 
civer, 118.~127 
water-bailiff of, see Pain - 
Ranulf the chaplain of, 176-7 
Thorner, Tornoure, Adam de, arch- 
deacon of York, 167 
Thornes (Wakefield), 249-50 
Thornhill, -hil, Thoren- Thorne-, 
Tornhull, -il, 211, 249 
manor, 236 
family, 206, 236, 251 
(of Fixby), 197, 221, 229 
German, Jeremy, de, 215-6, 220 
Jeremy de, official of-abp of 
York, 167 
(Sir) John (son of Richard) de, 
129,209, 217, 222, 224 229, 
232-3, 235-6 ; 
, his seal, 236° 
Richard de, 236 
, William his son, 232 
Richard de (younger), 197, 222 
Margaret his wife, see 
Totehill . Soar ie 
——, William his son, 197, 230n 
Thornton, Torn-, Torne-: 
Roger de, 191-2, 201, 224 
Thomas de, 117 
Thoroton, Dr. Robert, 225 
Thorpe (not identified), Thorp, 1687 
Ralph and Walter chaplains at, 
167 
Thorpe in Balne (Barnby-upon-Don), 
145 
manor, 145 
‘Threpwda’, 211 
Threxton (Norfolk), Trichestan, 93 
Thribergh, Triberge, Sir Hugh de, 
171 


Thurre, Richard de, 108 
Thurstan, archbishop of York, 83, 
96, 185, 196 
Thurstanland (Kirkburton), Turs- 
taine-, 139, 179, 182, 184 
Henry de, 131 
Matthew de, 131 
Richard de, 131 


Thyly. See Tilly 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 295 


Tickford (co. Buckingham), priory, 
254 


Tickhill, Ticke-, 23, 224 
bailiff of, see Pikenot 
castle, 225” 
constables of, see Clerfai, Hersy, 
; Pikenot 
honour of, 23-4, 25n, 114-5, 
139”, 142-3, 144n, 148-9, 
155, 224-5 
lady of, 225 
lord of, 23 
Tilly, -1, Thyly, Tylly, family, 145” 
Hugh de, 145 
——, his steward, see Osbert 
the archdeacon 
Sir John de, 207 
Otes de, steward of Conis- 
borough, 114, 141, 143-9, 
161, 163, 166-9, 174, 243-4 
——, Mabel his wife, see Raven 
——, Denise his dau., wife of 
Henry de Neufmarché and 
Henry du Puiset, 141-9, 


153-4, 169 
Otes son of Otes de, 141, 145-6, 
168 


——, Margery his dau., 141, 
145- 


Philippa de, 24, 25n 
Ralph brother of Otes de, const. 
of household of abp of 
York, 145” 
——, Sibyl his wife, see Clerfai 
Ralph son of Otes de, 141, 145, 
168 
Ralph son of Ralph de, 145 
Roger brother of Otes de, 145n, 
245n 
Roger son of Ralph de, 145 
William de, 24-5 - 
-Tinchebrai (Normandy, dept. aan 
17n, 49, 50 
battle of, 6, 7, 178 
Tingley (West Ardsley), Thinglau, 
-eslawe, Tyngelawe, 186 
Henry de, 188 
Humphrey de, 186 
, Eve his wife, 186 
Tingry (comté of Boulogne), 50 
Tintern abbey (co. Monmouth), 25 
Tona, Michael de [2 ervor], 57n 
Ton [? ebridge], Richard de, 57 
Tong, Tang, family, 206 
Jordan son of Assolf de, 205-6 
Toothill (Rastrick), 229 
manor, 229 
and see Totehill 
Topcliffe, Tofteclive : 
Adam de, 207 
Peter de, 188 
Torcheio, Richoard de, 80 
Torennia. See Touraine 


Torigny, -i, Robert of, 8, 16, 18n, 
240 


Torne. See Thorne 
Torneton. See Thornton 
Tornhull. See Thornhill 
Tornoure. See Thorner 
Tosard, 72 
Totehill, Thomas de, 197 
, Margaret his granddau., 
wife of Richard de Thorn- 
eA, 222 0 
Touche, Roger son of Sir Richard, 
210 
—, Maud his dau., wife of 
Roger de Birkin, 210 
Toulouse (France), 187 
campaign of, 17 
Toulston, Toules-, Peter de, 187 
Touraine, Torennia, -onia, 20, 124-5 
vicomte of, 20 
Tours, de Turonis, 18”, 124n 
Stephen de, seneschal of peu, 
20n 
Trageheastrod, 233 
Treeton, Treton: 
Hugh de, 176 
‘ Nicholas de, 176 
William de, 155 
Tréport, Le (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Inf.), abbey of St. Michael, 
ae 
Tresgoz, Robert de, 30 
Tresiceful, Jocelin, 73 
Triberge. See Thribergh 
Trichestan. See Threxton 
Tring (co. Hertford), manor, 48 
Tritlngton -(Bothal, Northumber- 
land), 191 
Trubleville, family, 81x” 
Istenus son of William son of 


Ralph de, 81 
William de, 75-6, 80-1; and see 
Istannus 


Trueleia, Ralph de, 124 
Trumfleet (Kirk Sandal), -fleit, -flet, 
Trunflet, 107-8 
Thomas de, 161, 169, 175 
Trumpington (co. Cambridge), 9, 44 


'Trunch (Norfolk), -et, de Trunceto, 


church, 77-8 
Richer de, earl’s steward, 127, 
136, 243 
Tuddenham, East (Norfolk), 31 
church, 31 
Tudworth (Hatfield), 137-9 
fisheries, 137-8 
Turgis, Richard son of, 245n 
— ae his son, see Wickers- 


Turold. a Scottow 

Turonis, de.. See Tours 
Turstaineland. See Thurstanland — 
Tylly. See Tilly 


296 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Tynemouth (Northumberland), 
Thinemuthe, prior of. See 
Acharius 


Tyngelawe. See Tingley 
Tyre, archbishop of. See William 


Uctred, Ught-, Uht-, Ut-, Uth-: 
son of Huck, 48 
son of Ravenchil, 183 
John son of, 199, 231 

, Henry his son, 199, 231 
——, William, Hugh, Robert 

his sons, 199 

Ulchel, Gamel son of, 200-1 

Ulf, 215 

Ulfkelerode, 221 

Ulfrun, 232n 

Upton (co. Nottingham), 25 

Uuerum. See Owram 


Valmont (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Litt, arr.; Y vetot},lora sot 


Valognes : 
barony, 29, 30 
family, 28, 30-1 
Peter I de, 30-1 
Peter [I de, 28-31 
——, Gundreda his wife, see 
Warenne (Reginald de) 
Philip de, chamberlain of kg of 
Scotland, 29 
Robert de, 29 
, Christine his granddau., 
countess of Essex, 29n 
Roger son of Peter I de, 28” 
William de, 29x 
Varenne (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Inf., nr. Bellencombre), 1, 
239-41 
river, l 
Vascoceuil (Normandy, dept. Eure, 
arr. Les Andelys), 1 
Vavasour, Vavassur, family, 1457” 


Robert, 254 
William (le), kg’s justice, 145, 
174 
Vermandois (Picardy), count of. 
See Hugh 


Vernuil, Henry de, 169 

Vernun, William de, 46 

Victor LV, anti-pope, Octavian, 18 
Villandry (Touraine), 124 
Vitteleia. See Whitley 

‘Vuiresuile’. See Wennerville 


W. the archdeacon (dio. Norwich), — 


Waard, William, 230 


Waddona. See Whatton 
Wadsworth (Halifax), 178, 233 
Wadworth, Waddewrthe : 
Peter de, 187 
William de, 167 
“‘Wagestan’ [?] Walton Cross, 203-4 
Wake, Baldwin, 213, 214 
, Ela his wife, see Beau- 
champ 
——, Elizabeth his dau., wife of 
Sir John de Horbury, 213-4 
——, his daus., wives of Ralph 
Paynel and John de Stone- 
grave, 214n 
Wakefield, -feld, -feud, Wacches-. 
felda, Wachefeld,  -fella, 
Wakfeld, 26x, 109, 116-7, 
178, 180-2, 185, 228, 236-7, 
245-6, 249-50, 252 
bailiff of liberty, see Filcock 
burgesses, 116-7 
castle, 250, 251” 
churches, ix, x, 63-8, 85-7, 102, 
105, 107, 178, 236 
constables of, 100, 250-1; and 
see Jordan son of Assolf 
fair-at, 24 
forest, 252 
hospital, 234 
manor, soke, v, (x, xivy 97-20; 
21n, 24n, 62, 64, 66, 68-70, 
82, 84, 100, 103, 131, 134, 
139-40, 1432, 178-85, 190, 
193, 195-8, 201-2, 209, 
210”, 211, 217, 218, 221, 
223, 226, 228-9, 232-3, 236, 
242-3, 246, 249-52 
——~ OUD, seats =cOourl ar 
181-2, 190, 203, 220, 243, 
248-50 
manorial stewards of, 243-4, 250; 
and see Cooke, Doncaster, 


Heydon, Lound, Lucas, 
Wakefield (William de) 
mill, 133 


priests at, 178 

rectors, see Catardus, Hugh, 
Hugh (chaplain), Lethe- 
broch 

sheriff of, 83, 185, 242; and see 
Raven (William son of) 

tithes of demesne, 236 

of hall, 67 

woods, 116-7, 234 

Northgate in, 132 

Henry the chaplain of, 230 

Peter the clerk of, 157 

Drohard de, ix, 68, 73; and see 
Druard 

Henry de, 237 

John de, clerk, 131-2, 134, 246 

William de, steward of Wake- 
field, 250 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 297 


Wakering, Richard de, clerk, 132 
Wakling, John de, clerk, 134 
Walda, Henry de, 229 
Waldeve, Walthevus, 49 

Henry son of Gilbert son of, 49 
Waleis, Walensis : 


Ralph, 97 
Robert, 136 
Waleran : 


count of Meulan, earl of Wor- 
cester, 9-12, 81 
earl of Warwick, 10, 40, 225 
Wales, scutage of, 22”, 27 
service against, 214 
Walkelin, bishop of Winchester, 57, 
63-4 
Walker, Mr. J. W., 182 
Walo, William son of, 53 
Waltef son of Swain, 221; and cf. 
Waldeve 
Walter, 38 
abbot of Battle, 84 
—— of Sallay, 235-6 
archdeacon of Canterbury, 84 
—— of Oxford, mag., 120 
bishop of Coventry, 967 
the chaplain, 161, 169 
at Thorpe, 167 
the cook, 52 
the priest of Beuzeville, 127 
of Bracquetuit, 81 
prior of Canterbury, 84 
[?] son of Hugh, 168 
son of Philip, see Burnham 
Hugh son of, 208 
——, Ralph his son, 208-9 
Walter, Hubert, rector of Halifax, 
dean of York, abp. of 
Canterbury, vi, 121-2, 202 
Waltheof, Richard son of, 227 
, Bennet his wife, 227 
Walthevus. See Waldeve 
Walton, anglian cross (Hartshead), 
[?] Wagestan, 204 
(Sandal Magna), Wale-, 
-tuna, 139, 179-80, 182-4 
manor, 182 
Walton, West (Norfolk), 57, 71 
manor, 56-7 
Walton D’Eiville (co. Warwick), 11 
Walton-on-the-Hill (co. Lancaster), 
49 
Henry de, 49x 
Walur, Roger, 118, 127 
Wambwelle. See Wombwell 
Wancy, -ci, Wauncy, de Wanciaco : 
Hugh de, 58-9, 77 
Ralph de, 133 
Walter de, 122, 128 
Wara, William de, 124 
Warenne, -ia, -a, Garenna, Guar-, 
Guarethna, Gwaregna, 
Gwarenne, Warethna, 


Walton 


Warenne—contin ued 
Warrena : 
families, vi, 1-40 
family (of Whitchurch) 3x, 10, 
35-8 
—— (of Wormegay), xii, 10, 
26-35 
Godfrey de, 1 
John de, 7th earl, 6, 23, 25, 36, 
39, 139n, 148, 164, 177, 
182, 186, 190, 197, 213-4, 
228, 243, 247-50, 252 
, his seal, 240, 241n 
Jonn de, Sth earl; xii, 26, G61, 
62n, 65, 86n, 94, 135-6, 
140, 182-3, 203, 225, 228n, 
229, 238n, 243 
Philip de, 38, 253 
Rainald or Reginald de, son of 
William Ist earl, xii, 6, 
38n, 44, 63-4, 70-3, 75 
Rainald or Reginald de (of 
Wormegay), son of William 
2nd earl, kg’s justice, xi-xiil, 
10, 12, 15, 18, 26-8, 30-4, 
36, 50-1, 82, 84-5, 87, 89-95, 
97-8, 100-1, 107, 119, 147, 
157-9, 241 
——, Alice his wife, see Worme- 


gay 


a 

——, Alice his dau., wife of 
Peter the constable, 28, 
31-2 

——, Gundreda his dau., wife 
of Peter de Valognes, Wil- 
liam de Curcy, and Geof- 
frey Hose, 28-31 

——, Muriel his dau., 32 

——, his clerk, see Ralph 

, his steward, see Belfoc 

Rainald or Reginald, ‘blundus’, 
12 

= brunus we) Brun’ 7 12 

alph-de, 1 

Ralph de, son of William 2nd 
Sarl lO 626n 3 37; G20. 16; 
78, 81, 84-5, 87, 93-4 

Ranulf de, 37 

Richard de, 70-1 

Rodulf I de, 1-3, 52-4, 80, 239 

, Beatrix his wife, 1, 2, 53-4 

———, Emma his wife, 2, 52-4 

Rodulf II de, 1”, 2, 52-3 

Roger de (de Coulances), 2 

Roger son of Ralph de, 1, 5% 

William de, 1st earl de Warenne 
and of Surrey, vii, viii, x, 
xii, xiii, 2-6, 9, 23, 30, 36, 
38, 39n, 40-5, 52-67, 69-75, 
77-9, 91, 96-8, 120, 123, 
126, 130, 137-8, 150, 239-40 

——., his wives, see Guet, Gun- 
dreda 


298 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Warenne—continued 

——, Edith his dau., wife of 
Gerard de Gournay and 
Drew de Monchy, 6, 7, 

William de, 2nd earl, vii-x, xii, 
2n, 4n, 5-12, 26, 37, 39n, 42, 
44, 46-7, 57, 58n, 60n, 
61-81, 83, 85-8, 89n, 90-1, 
93, 96-8, 106, 123, 126, 130, 
bey OU lyael ba LOL 4 / 8, 
185, 211, 238-40, 242-3, 
251n, 252-3 

——, Isabel or Elizabeth his 
wife, see Hugh count of 
Vermandois 

——, Ada his dau., wife of 
Henry earl of Huntingdon, 
Lita be 150-1 

——, Gundreda his dau., wife 
of Roger earl of Warwick 
and William de Lancaster, 
£014 

——, his chaplain, see Stephen 

——. his dispenser, see Osmund 

——, his seal, 80n 

William de, 3rd earl, viin, viii, 
xi, 4n, 8n, 9, 10, lin, 12, 
15, 26-7, 31, 37-8, 50, 56, 
62, 65-6, 76-8, 81-99, 104, 
£06; 110, 212,50 123,730, 
136”, 144, 150, 157, 161n, 
185, 201-2, 218; 238-40, 
2AL, 202 

——, Ela or Ala his wife, see 
Talvas 

——., Isabel his dau., countess, 
wife of William de Blois 
and Hamelin son of Geof- 
frey of -Anjou, —-viti, xi, 
13-16, 18-20, 26-7, 45, 47-8, 
50, 88, 97-8, 100-11, 
116-24, 126-30, 148, 158-9, 
173, 239-40, 244-5, 253 

——, ——., her bailiffs of Yorks., 


129 
» ——, her chamberlain, 
see Edgar 
se, , her seal, 127-8 
—-, , her trousseau, 19x 


, his chaplain, see Geoffrey 

William de, 6th earl, v, vi, ix, 
x, 19n, 20-5, 35, 45n, 100, 
104-5, 110-1, 116-8, 120-4, 
126-7, 129-36, 140, 144, 
157, 160-2, 164, 170-1, 173, 
177, 181, 184, 185, 204-5, 
213, 217-8) “2201, (225, 
233-7, 239-40, 242-7, 250n, 
251-3 

——, Maud [?] his first wife, 
14n, 25n 

—-—, Maud his second wife, see 
Marshal 


Warenne—continued 
, Alice his niece, 234 
, his seal, 131-2, 240, 241” 
William de, see also William 
(the Lion) 
William de (of Whitchurch), 35” 
——, William his son, 35x 
William son of Ranulf de, 36-7 
——, Emma his wife, 36 
Wilham son of Reginald de (of 
Wormegay), kg’s justice, 
19n, 24n, 27-8, 30-4, 101, 
119, 122, 124-5, 147, 158-60 
——, Beatrice his wife, see 
Pierrepont 
——, Milisent his wife, 33-4 
——, Reginald his son, 33-4 
——, Beatrice his dau., wife of 
Doun Bardolf and Hubert 
de Burgh, 33-5, 157, 253; 
and see Ralph 
——, Isabel his dau., 33-4 
earls de, see also Blois, Hamelin, 
Mowbray 
——., bailiffs of, 129, 163; and 
see Shepley 
——, court of, 212, 215; and see 
Conisborough, Lewes, 
Wakefield, 
, officials, 241-53 
——, stewards of, see Subject 
Index, s.n. Stewards 
, styles of, 7, 8, 12, 137, 
46-7, 238-41; and see Blois, 
Hamelin 
honour of, in Normandy, 3 
Warin : 
prévoét of Bellencombre, 126-7 
the priest of St-Ouen, 127 
the sheriff, 63 
son of Gerold, see Gerold 
Roger son of, 206 
—, Amabel his wife, see 
Assolf (John son of) 
Warley (Halifax), 178, 232-3 
Warmfield, 154, 179 
church, 154 
Warmsworth, Warmes-, Warmesf- 
ford], Wermedeswrthe, 
107-8, 138-40, 149 
church, 149 
Roger de, 167 
William de, 170 
Warner, G. F. and Ellis, Hej. 30; 
98 
Warr, John, Lord de la, 35 
——, Joan his wife, see Grelley 
Warren, family (of Poynton), xii 
Sir George, Xi, Xll 
Warwick, earl of, 40; and see Beau- 
mont, Roger, Waleran, 
William 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 299 


Warwick—continued 
confusion of name with Warenne, 


40 
Warwickshire, 9; and see Alcester, 
Coventry, Hillmorton, 


Moreton, Pillerton, Walton 
Waters, Mr. R. E. Chester, 41-4, 62 
Wath-upon-Dearne, 156, 203-4, 213 
Watson, Mr. G. W., 13n 
Rev. John, xi, xii, 6”, 14n, 41, 
62n, 96 
,his Memoirs oftheearls ..., 
ee a8 
Waulderseg’, Ralph de, 167 
Wauncy. See Wancy 
Wavertree (co. Lancaster), 49 
Waxham, Reiner de, deputy-sheriff 
of Yorkshire, 174 
——., Peter his bro., 174 
Wde-. See Wood- 
Welingeham. See Willingham 
“Wellebof’ (Normandy), 81 
Wellstream, Wellestrem, river, 57, 
109 
Wendover (co. Buckingham), manor, 
51 
Wennerville, Winnerwilla, ‘Vuire- 
suile’, Ralph de, rector of 
Hemsworth, 193, 201 
Wennevall, Wesneval. See Esneval 
Wentworth, Wynteword, 206 
Richard, 184 
Robert de, 163-4, 171 
William de, 164 
Wermedeswrthe. See Warmsworth 
Westcott (in Dorking, Surrey), 22 
Westminster, 15, 17, 20”, 32, 46, 
246 
: St. Stephen’s chapel, 218 
Weston (co. Nottingham), 225 
Weston, -tune (Shropshire). See 
Whitchurch 
Weston Colville (co. Cambridge), 
Westonia, church, 74-5 
Whatton (co. Nottingham), Wad- 
dona, 141-2, 148 
William de, 141-2 
, his wife, see Neufmarché 
Wheatley (Doncaster), [?]Witelay, 


146 
Whiston, 138-9 
Whitchurch (Shropshire), Album 


Monasterium, Blaminister, 
Westune, 37, 10, 35-6 
castle, 36” 
manor, 36 
and see Blancmoster 
White, Mr. G. H., 9n, 13”, 241n 
Whitley, Vitteleia, William de, clerk, 
193 
Whitsand, Gilbert de, 90 
Wiburville, -cvilla, Ralph de, 89, 90, 
92, 98 


Wickersley : 
Jordan de, 245n 
Roger son of Richard de, 245 
, Custance his dau., wife of 
William Livet, 245 
Widlesford. See Wridlesford 
Wigar, the chamberlain, 159 
Wiharville, Wihau-, Richard de, 
earl’s steward in Sussex, 
130, 173 
Wihaut. See Withaud 
Wikecote, Ralph de, 108 
Wilard, Ranulf son of, 141, 143n, 
212n 
——, Cecily his wife, 212 
==) Isabel his dau.; wife’ of 
William de Neufmarché, 
141, 143 
William : 
I, king, duke of Normandy, 
viii, 1-5, 23, 40-4, 52-7, 60, 
69, 123 
——, queen Maud his wife, see 
Baldwin 
II, king, 4-6, 8, 55, 57-60, 66, 
G9 7o;e1 20 
the Lion, king of Scotland, earl 
of Northumberland and 
Huntingdon (William de 
Warenne), 11, 19, 99, 150-1 
-———, his son; see Alexander IL 
——, Margaret his dau., wife of 
Hubert de Burgh, 35 
abbot of Newminster, 165-6 
archbishop of Tyre, 13n 
bishop of Durham, 57 
of London, 121 
of Norwich, 93, 95 
—— of Thetford, 58-9 
brother of kg Henry II, see 
Geoffrey count of Anjou 
the chaplain of the bishop, 161 
the clerk of Braithwell, 170-1 
—— of Dereham, 159 
of Fixby, 197-8 
of earl Hamelin, 118 
the cook, 159 
earl of Chichester, 84-5 
—— of Salisbury, 13, 96, 123, 
159 
of Warwick, 10, 11, 40 
frater comitis, 48-9 
king of Sicily, 19 
, Joan his wife, see Henry 
IL 
mag., son of Fulk, 174-5 
the miller, 98-9, 115-6, 150-1, 
Ths 
, Elias his son, 153 
nepos of Aldred, 119 
I, prior of Lewes, 97-8 
II, prior of Lewes, 109 
rector of Oldham, 221 


300 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


William—continued 
serjeant of Aubreye de Lisours, 
167 
sheriffs of Lewes, 51, 74, 76, 
241-2 
the steward, 119 
, [2] of Lewes priory, 227, 
228n, 244n 
the tailor, 52 
son of Anscher, 53 
son of Engleram, 170 
son of Gerbod, see Gerbod 
son of Gladwin, 170 
son of Godric, 20”, 112, 173-5, 
TST 
——, Aubreye his wife, see 
Lisours 
son of Gulbert, 81 
son of Hamund, 40 
[?] son of Hugh, 168 
son of Istannus, 81 
, Ralph his son, 81 
son of John son of Uctred, 199 
son of Morcard, 111-2 
son of Morker, 226 
son of Philip, see Burnham 
son of the physician, 113 
son of Ralph, 82 
, seneschal of Normandy, 
126 
son of Randulf, 114 
son of Ranulf, 36-8 
son of Raven, see Raven 
son of Roger son of Hugh 
bishop of Coutances, 52-3 
son of Roger son of Wimer, 
earl’s steward, 242 
son of Thomas, 155, 191, 216 
son of Walo, 53 
Roger son of, 20” 
Thomas son of, 236 
Willingham (co. 
Welinge-, 70 
Willoughby, Robert de, 141, 149 
, Margery his wife, see 
Neufmarché 
Wilsick (Tickhill), -sik, 107-8, 138, 
250 


Cambridge), 


Wilton (Norfolk), church, 91-2 
Wiltshire, vii, 30 
and see Bradenstoke, Clarendon, 
Salisbury 
Wimer, steward of William. de 
Warenne II, 77, 79, 242, 
243n 
——, Roger his son, steward, 
see Roger 
Wimundeham. See Wymondham 
Winchester, -thonia, -tonia, 46 
bishops of, see Henry, Lucy, 
Walkelin 
councils at, 5, 17, 60, 66 
treaties at, 15, 19, 26 


Winchester—continued 

Alwin of, 73, 76-7 
Windsor, 7, 46” 
Winksley (Ripon), 1837 
Winnerwilla. See Wennerville 
Wirintorp. See Wrenthorpe 
Wirmegay. See Wormegay 
Wirtleia. See Wortley 
Wisnevallibus, de. See Esneval 
Witelay. See Wheatley 
Withaud, Wihaut, William, 195 
Witley (Surrey), 22 
Wiuelai. See Woolley 
‘Wiuetelay’, 146 
Wlfleia. See Woolley 
Wlfrunwelle. See Wormald 
Woham, William de, 128 
Wolvedal. See Wooldale 
Wolverton (co. Buckingham), 39n 

barony, 39, 40 
Wombwell (Darfield), Wambwelle, 

190 


manor, 190 
William de, 204 
Wood Ditton (co. Cambridge), 68 
church, 68 
lord of, 68 
Wood Rising (Norfolk), Resingas, 91 
Woodhall, Wude-, Philip de, 191 
Woodhouse (Rastrick), 230n 
Woodkirk, Wdekirke, Wod-, Wode- 
churche, Wudekirke, -kyr- 
ce: 
cell of Nostell, 83, 185», 189-90, 
205-6, 208-9, 248 
, master of, 186, 190 
church, 83, 185 
Woodlesford (Rothwell), 198 
and see Wridlesford 
Woodton [?] ,Wdetun, John de, 161 
Wooldale (Kirkburton), Wolvedal, 
131, 179, 218 
Woolley, Wiuelai, Wlfleia, Wluelia, 
Elias, de 204, 215, 217 
Worcester, adj. Wigorniensis : 
bishops of, see Baldwin, Malger, 
Simon 
earl of, see Waleran 
Worksop (co. Nottingham), Wyrkis- 
hope : 
canon of, see Gilbert 
priors of, 165; and see A. 
Wormald (Rishworth), Wlfrunwall’, 


-welle, 231-2 
Elias son of Richard de, 232 
Wormegay (Norfolk), Wirmegay, 


-geye, 6, 12, 19”, 24n, 27n, 
28, 30, 32, 34n, 35, 36x, 91, 
107, 124 

barony, honour, xiin, 27-8, 31-4 

lord of, 32 

mills, 32 

priory, 32 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 301 


Wormegay—continued 
founder of, 32 
———, prior, 31 
Richard de, 27 
William de, 27 
, Alice. his dau., wife of 
Reginald de Warenne, 27-8, 
31-4 
William de (Warenne), 32 
William de, proctor of Lewes 
priory, 166 
Worsthorne, Wrdesthoren’, Wurdes- 
torn’, Osbert de, 199 
——, Robert and Matthew his 
sons, 199 
Wortley, Wirtleia, Wrthele, -ley, 
-elay : 
Sir Francis, x, 214 
Henry son of John de, 155-6, 
212 
Nicholas de, 155 
Nicholas de (younger), 213, 
214n 
, his wife, see Horbury 
Nicholas son of Alan de, 204 
Wrenthorpe, Wirintorp, Robert de, 
229 


Wridlesford, Widles-, Wrideles-, 
Writele-, family, 196, 198 
John de, 196, 198, 247 
, Maud his sister, wife of 
Michael de _ Briestwistle, 
197 
Samson de, steward of Robert 
de Lascy, 117, 196-8, 205-6, 
220 
Walter de, 196” 
and see Woodlesford 
Wude-. See Wood- 
Wulfric, 137 
Wulfrun, 232n 
Wurdestorn’. See Worsthorne 
Wybis, Walleys de, 166 
Wyke Hamon (co. Northampton), 
39n 
Wymondham (Norfolk), Wimunde- 
ham, -iham, manor, 79 
priory, 79 


Wynteword. See Wentworth 
Wyrkishope. See Worksop 


Yateholme (Almondbury), 179 
Yeldham (Essex), Gelham, 37 
York, 163, 174 
archbishopric, 104 
, Officials of, see Arundel, 
Laurence 
archbishops, 179-80, 218, 219n, 
225n, 250; and see Geoffrey, 
Gray, Henry, Roger, 
Thomas, Thurstan 
'——, constable of household of, 
beculally 
——, Official of, see Thornhill 
archdeacon of, 173-4; and see 
Aunay, Dinan, Thorner 
archdeaconry, 108 
cathedral church of St. Peter, 


108 
chapter, dean and c., 19; 
108, 149-52 


——, dean, see Walter (Hubert) 
diocese, 68-9, 107-8 
synod, 173-4 
St. Mary’s abbey, 13, 20, 82, 
114-5, 186, 244, 251 
, cells, see Haines, Sandtoft 
St. Peter’s hospital, 144-5, 191 
——, rector, see Paulinus 
, chartulary, 191n 
Holy Trinity priory, 96, 196 
, chapter, 196 
——, priors, see 
Robert 
William of, 175 
Yorkshire, Eboraci sira, Eboracensis 
Siray Gayaiso 
county court, 173-4 
sheriff of, 24, 25n, 163; and see 
Glanville, Narford 
deputy-sheriff of, see Waxham 
Young, juvenis, John son of John, 
187 


Bernard, 


SUBJECT INDEX 


Advocates. See St-Bertin; and 


Gerbod 
Advowsons : 
(in Yorkshire), see Barnborough, 
Dinnington, Harthill, 


Hartshead, Hatfield, Kirk- 
burton, Normanton, Roche 
abbey 
(elsewhere in England), see 
Middleton, Nuneham, Pil- 
lerton, Portslade, Retford 
and see Gifts 
Agriculture, assarts belonging to a 
bovate, 199 
land de sartis, 112 
land wainabilis, 113 
no profit-as in poor country, 
203n 
and see Animals, Gifts, Wood 
Aid, taken by earl from his men, 
124, 128 
Ampersand and tironian sign used 
together, 73n 
Animals, herbage for, dependent on 
extent of bovates, 234-5 
herbage for, except pigs, 234 
licence to take stags in grease 
and hinds in season, 235 
specified numbers for pasture, 
168; and see Gifts 
Archbishops. See Canterbury, 
Rouen, Tyre, York 
Archdeacons. See Bedford, Canter- 
bury, Chichester, Cleve- 
land, Gloucester, Norwich, 
Nottingham, Oxford, Sur- 
rey, York; and also Boc- 
land, Osbert, Ricoardus 
Arms, heraldic, 131-2 
Assize of darrein presentment, 144, 
157,161; 218-2290 
avevagium, 109 


Bailiffs. See Conisborough, Lewes 
priory, Sowerby, Tickhill, 
Wakefield, Warenne 
ballivus, the word, 200, 252 
Baronies. See Honours 
Barons, honorial, 60x, 63, 87; and 
see Lancaster, Norfolk; and 
also Charters 
king’s, 55-6 
of Exchequer, 26 
Letter to Pope, 240nx 
Berewick, beruita, 91 


_ Castles. 


Bishops. See Bath, Bayeux, Chi- 
chester, Coutances, Coven- 
try, Durham, Ely, Evreux, 
Exeter, Lincoln, London, 
Norwich, Rennes, Roches- 
ter, Salisbury, Thetford, 
Winchester, Worcester 
Blacksmith. See Alexander 
Boroughs, burgesses, 107; and see 
Lewes, Thetford, Wake- 
field 
Bridges. See Chailey; and Ligulf 
Burgage tenure, 116-7, 123 
Butler, king’s, see Aubigny 
and see Guy 


Canons. See Gilbert, Heimeric, 
Melide, Milo, Ralph 
Carucates, basis of three to a knight’s 

fee, 155-6 
=> of fours) (32) Wbovates), 
169-70 
six-carucate unit, 139 
Castlery. See Lewes 
See Castle Acre, Conis- 
borough, Dover, Lewes, 
Norwich, Pevensey, Rich- 
mond, Rochester, Sandal, 
Tickhill, Wakefield, Whit- 
church 
(in Normandy), see Bellen- 
combre, Mortain, Mortemer, 
Neufchatel, St-Pierre-sur- 
Dives, St-Saens, Ste- 
Suzanne 
Causeway. See Cowbridge 
Chamberlain, king’s, see Burgh 
of king of Scotland, see Valognes 
of countess Isabel, see Edgar 
of Lewes priory, see Maino 
and see Burnellus, Richard, 
Roger, Wigar 
Chancellors, king’s, see Longchamp, 
Maurice, Neville 
of tenants-in-chief, 50 
of William de Blois, see Eustace 
and see Canterbury, Durham 
Chantry. See Chichester 
Chapels : 
permission to hold service in, 
195-6 
rent of pound of wax to, 197 
(in Yorkshire), see Armthorpe, 
Conisborough (castle), Ed- 
lington, Farnley, Greas- 


SUBJECT INDEX 303 


Chapels—continued 
brough, Hartshead, Hor- 
bury, Kirkburton, Sandal 
(Kirk), Thorne 

(elsewhere in England), see 
Newdigate, Retford, West- 
minster : 

Chaplains. See Adam, Elias, Geof- 
frey, Gerald, Gilbert, God- 
frey, Henry, Hervey, Hugh, 
Livet, Michael, Nigel, 
Ottele, Ralph, Ranulf, 
Richard, Robert, Roger, 
Simon, Stephen, Walter, 
William 

Charters : 

addressed to honorial barons, 
xi, 50, 83, 89, 92-5, 97-8 
to bailiffs, 80, 89 
— to men (and officials) 
French and English, 79, 
82-3, 93-5, 98, 126 
to officials, 89, 93 
——— to sheriff ceterisque villicis, 
74, 242 

— to sheriff of Lewes, 97-8, 
241 

—— to sheriff of Wakefield, 
83, 242 

—— to sheriffs and officials, 

94, 242 

to a steward, 78-9 

comital style in, 4, 5, 8n, 17, 

19n, 46-50, 238-40 
confirmed or witnessed by sign 
of the Cross, 57-8, 63 
descriptive postcript in, 75 
imposing forfeiture for injury, 
74 


inflated by maledictory and 
other clauses, 85 

issued in earl’s court, 157, 220 

originals of Lewes priory, see 


Lewes 
pro anima clause, indicating 
death, 128 


pro anima and pyro salute 
animarum clauses, 151n 

witnessed by grantor’s mother, 
fautrix et confirmatrix, 172 

and see Scriptor, Sealing, War- 
ranty . 

Churches : 

exaction of tenths for crusade, 
219-20 

in moieties, 218 

pensions from, in, 107-8, 202 

proposed restoration (veddere), 
67 


and see Advowsons, in proprios 
usus, Rectors, Vicarage 

(in Yorkshire), see Bolton Percy, 
Braithwell, Conisborough, 


Churches—continued 
Crofton, Dewsbury, Din- 
nington, Fishlake, Halifax, 
Harthill, Hartshead, Hat- 
field, Kirkburton, Leeds, 
Normanton, Rotherham, 
Sandal (Kirk), Sandal 
Magna, Thorne, Wakefield, 
Warmfield, Warmsworth, 
Woodkirk, York 
(elsewhere in England), see 
Ardingly, Barcombe, Bars- 
ham, Betchworth, Brigh- 
ton, Burnham Thorpe, Can- 
field, Carlton Scroop, 
Castle Acre, Caxton, Clay- 
ton, Cockerham, Croxton, 
Dorking, Exeter, Fakenham, 
Feltwell, Gimingham, Hal- 
stead, Hangleton, Harpley, 
Keymer, Kingston, Leigh, 
Lewes, Lichfield, Nuneham, 
Pangdean, Plumpton, Poy- 
nings, Reigate, Rochester, 
Rottingdean, Salisbury, 
Southover, Southwell, Thet- 
ford, Trunch, Tuddenham, 
Weston, Wilton, Wood 
Ditton; also Norfolk 
(in Normandy), see Anglesque- 
ville, Auzouville, Bellen- 
combre, Emanville, Flam- 
anville, Motteville 
Clerk, king’s. See John son of Luke 
Clerks. See A., Adam, Alfred, 
Birstall, Braithwell, Carl- 
ton, Clement, Crowle, Elias, 
Eustace, Frondonte, Geof- 
frey, Gilbert, Girard, Hamo, 
Henry, Hipperholme, Hugh, 
Humphrey, Ivo, John, Lon- 
don, Pain, Paulinus, Peter, 
Picot, Plaiz, Ralph, Regi- 
nald, Reiner, Richard, 
Robert, Roger, Stanford, 
Talvas, Thomas, . Wake- 
field, Wakering, Wakling, 
Whitley, William 
Comes, double meaning of, 240n 
Comital style, 238-40 
earl described without, 46-7, 
240n 
and see Charters 
comitatus of Norfolk, 16 
Constables. See Chester, Conis- 
borough, Dover, Sandal, 
Tickhill, Wakefield; and 
also Baldwin, Goslen, Peter, 
Robert, Tilly 
constitutor. See Robert 
Cooks. See Bernard, Osbert, Regi- 
nald, Walter, William 


304 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Coroners. See Horbury, Lincoln- 
shire 

Councils. See Clarendon, Northamp- 
ton, Nottingham, Win- 
chester 

Countess. See Essex, Eu (Henry 
count of), Warenne (3rd 
earl) 

Counts. See Anjou, Boulogne, 
Britanny, Burgundy, Eu, 
Flanders, Holland, Maine, 
Meulan, Mortagne, Mortain, 
Péronne, Ponthieu, Ver- 
mandois 

see also Brionne 

Courts, earl’s, see Conisborough, 
Lewes, Wakefield; and also 
Charters, Writs 

manorial, see Wakefield 
Cross, Anglian. See Walton 
Crusades, first, 6 

second, 13, 82, 86, 97-8 
cultura, 109-10, 171-2 
cupplare, 195 


Danegeld, 18, 56; and see Gifts, 
wergeldum 

De, the particle, 2417 

Deacon. See Robert 


Deans. See Chichester, Rouen, 
Stamford, York; and also 
Peter 


(rural), see Doncaster, Lewes, 
Pontefract; and also Dolfin, 
Enneus, P. 
Dispenser, service of, 225 
used for administrative work, 
2 MME Doty FF 
and see Osmund, Thomas 
Domesday survey, 3, 5, 9, 35, 38-9, 
44-5, 55, 57, 59, 64, 69, 71-2, 
ioe do iss tere 155: 
178-80, 182, 185, 195, 201, 
205, 229, 242 
Duel, per finem duelli, 163 
pro concordia duelli, 143n 
Dukes. See Britanny, Leeds, Lor- 
raine, Norfolk, Normandy 


Earls. See Arundel, Chester, Chi- 
chester, Danby, Derby, 
Fife, Gloucester, Hereford, 
Hertford, Huntingdon, 
Kent, Lancaster, Leicester, 
Lincoln, Norfolk, North- 


ampton, Northumberland, 


Pembroke, Richmond, 
Salisbury, Shrewsbury, 
Surrey, Warwick, Worces- 
ter; and also Harold, 
Warenne 


and see Comital style 


Eels, 138; and see Gifts, Tithes 
Esquire. See Hugh 


esselda, 76 

Fairs. See Braithwell, Thetford, 
Wakefield; and also Gfits 

Fees (honour of Warenne). See 
Burgh, Frescheville, Neuf- 
marché 


_ see also Honours 
Final concord, text of, 160 
Fish, specified, 82; and see Eels, 
Gifts 
Fisheries, 134, 137-8; and see Gifts, 
Tithes; and also Tudworth 
Foresters, 252 
the earl’s, in Sowerbyshire, 235 
and see Ragged, Sandal 


Forests. See Holmfirth, Horbury, 
Lancaster, Sowerbyshire, 
Wakefield 


Forinsec service, 166-7, 169-70, 191, 
198-9, 206-7, 213, 231 
for a quarter of a knight’s fee, 
190 
for a sixth, 156 
fovea, 217 


Gifts and grants : 
for beds for infirmary, 117-8 
for benefits of order of Semp- 

ringham, 117-8 

of prayers in the church 

of Lewes, 174 

of St. Peter’s hospital, 191 

for kmnight-service, 158, 162, 
169-70, 194 

for marriage of a sister, 78 

for masses and psalters, 117-8 

for an obit, 76, 92, 104-5, 133 

for remission of own and rela- 
tions’ sins, 72-3, 93-4 

for rent and paying lord’s aid 
if imposed, 124, 128 

for rent of (gilt) spurs, 125-6, 

164, 200-1 

a sparrow-hawk, 167 

free from aids, tallages, etc., 
80-1, 84-5, 126 

free from customs of sale, 116-7 

free from danegeld, 84-5 

free from hidage or other geld, 
101 

free from scutage, 88 

free ab omnibus causis, 71 

free ab omnibus servictis vilen- 
agits, 124, 128 

of beasts and birds, 234-5 

of breams, 114 

of dead wood, 116-7 

of eels, 32 


SUBJECT INDEX 305 


Gifts and grants—continued 
of estovers, 222, 224 
of a fair, 93-4 
of fisheries, licence to fish, 63, 
65, 82, 89, 106, 108, 134 
of freedom from carrying ser- 
vice, 109 
———— from dues on abbey’s 
demesne supplies, 80 
ot land for building, 197 
, a grange, 210 
of mercatum lignorum, 106 
of mills, and rent therefrom, 
83, 90-1, 98-9, 105-6, 108, 
115-6, 124, 128, 133, 150-3 
of millstones, 194-5 
of passage of animals to pasture 
117-8, 127 
of pasture for specified num- 
era g75, 117-8701 27- 191 
205, 208 
of rents, specified, 94 
of restoration of gild-merchant, 
97-8 
of right of advowson with 
clause to exclude contin- 
gent claims, 87 
of presentation to churches 
and chapels, 103, 105 
of sac, soc, toll, team, infangen- 
thef, 94 
of a sokeman, 90-1 
of a tenant, 80 
of tithes, see Tithes 
of venison, 63, 65, 89 
of villeins, 54-5, 134-5, 149-51, 
229-30 
of wood for burning, 116-7 
offered on an altar, 52, 64, 83 
pro salute anime et corporis, 93 
to hold in free burgage, 116-7 
to be maintained on penalty of 
money forfeiture, 83, 94 
to provide for entertainment of 
priory guests, 104-5, 108-9 
lamp for husband’s burial- 


place, 87 
lights in an abbey church, 
23, 80 

under compulsion when in 
prison, 203 


with body for burial, 135 
Gild-merchant. See Lewes; and also 
Gifts 
Goatherd. See Haregrim 


Granges. See Ainley, Bentley, 


Bradley 


Hatton Book of Seals, 3lnv, 48, 237 
Heralds, king of the. See Peter 
Hermitage. See Crosland 

Honour, word used, 103, 244 


Honours, Baronies, Fees in chief. 
See Aincurt, Baliol, Bar- 
dolf, Beauchamp, Bedford, 
Blancmoster, Blyth, Bothal, 
Boulogne, Clitheroe, Conis- 
borough, Crich, Curcy, 
Dover, Esneval, Eye, Glou- 
cester, Lancaster, Lascy, 
Lewes, Mandeville, Mauley, 
Mowbray, Percy, Pevensey, 
Peverel, Pontefract, Rich- 
mond, Skipton, Tickhill, 
Valognes, Warenne, Wol- 
verton, Wormegay 

Hospitals. See Wakefield, York 

Huntsman. See Services 


in (or ad) proprios usus, 104, 107 
Iron-works, 210-2 


Jews. See Aaron 
justice of, 32 
Joculator. See Gladio 
juger, equivalent to acre, 52 
Justices, king’s, next iter in York- 
shire, 22, 175 
and see Arundel, Bardolf, Don- 
caster, FitzPeter, Neuf- 
marché, Pikenot, Segrave, 
Vavasour, Warenne (of 
Wormegay) 


Knight’s fee. See Carucates 
Knights’ fees, of the honour of 
Warenne, 19”, 24, 140; 
and see Fees 
of the honour of Wormegay, 
27, 32-3 
of Hamo son of Meinfelin, 39 
Knight-service, gift for service of a 
quarter of a knight, xi, 
158 
of half a knight’s fee, 162 
of a fifth, 194 
and see Gifts 


Legates. See Longchamp, Theobald 


See Alexander, Arundel, 
Bernard, Bescam, Clement, 
Dinnington, Doncaster, 
Haddinton, Hampole, Hei- 
meric, Huc, Kirkby, Lau- 
rence, Melide, Milo, Nor- 
folk, Osbert, Peter, Philip, 
Richmond, Robert, Scot- 
tus, Stanford, Summere, 
Testard, Walter, William 


Magistri. 


306 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Manors : 

(in Yorkshire), see Altofts, 
Braithwell, Clifton, Conis- 
borough, Crosland, Dews- 
bury, Doncaster, Emley, 
Farnley, Fishlake, Fixby, 
Flockton, Harthill; Hat- 
field, Hazlewood, Hex- 
thorpe, Horbury, Lindley, 
Marr, Melton, Quarmby, 
Sandal Magna, Shepley, 
Shitlington, Southwood, 
Sowerby, Thorne, Thorn- 
hill, Thorpe in Balne, Toot- 
hill, Wakefield, Walton, 
Wombwell 

(elsewhere in England), see 
Barcombe, Bendish, Betch- 
worth, Cawston, Cocker- 
ham, Cowick, Greetwell, 
Gresham, Grove, Harpley, 
Heacham, Mapledurham, 
Martock, Middleton, North- 
ease, Plumpton, Portslade, 
Tring, Walton, Wendover, 
Whitchurch, Wymondham 

mavarius, water-bailiff. See Brad- 
mere, Pain 


Markets. See Braithwell, Conis- 
borough 

Marriage, canonical objection to, 
l4n, 42 


Marshal, of England, office, 25” 
and see John, Joseph 
Miller. See William 
Mills : 
(in Yorkshire), see Barnborough, 
Bradley, Conisborough, 
Dalton, Elland, Harlington, 
Shitlington, Wakefield 
(elsewhere in England), see 
Attlebridge, ‘Gardeseye’, 
Meeching, “Puchepole’, 
Sidlow, Wormegay 
and see Gifts 
Mines. See Carlisle 


Notary. See Malger 


obtricarius [? vecte. ostricarius, a 
falconer}]. See Adam 


palicarius, paler, 252 

Palmer. See Sigar 

palmifert fratres, 94 

pares, honorial peers, xi, 14, 158-9 
Parliament, summons to, 35 
peredum, 106 

Physician, son of the. See William 
Pilgrimage to Jerusalem, 152 


Popes. See Alexander, Celestine, 

Gregory, Innocent, Lucius, 

Victor 

Porters. See Henry, Robert, Stephen 

Prévéts. See Ralph, Warin 

Priests. See Acelin, Adam, Anfrid, 
Angulo, Beralddus, David, 
Elias, Germanus, Gilbert, 
John, Joseph, Maurice, 
Oddo, Paulinus, Ranulf, 
Reginald, Richard,  Ri- 
coardus, Roger, Stangrin, 
Walter, Warin; and also 
Braithwell, Conisborough, 
Dewsbury, Hatfield, Nor- 


manton, Sandal (Kirk), 
Wakefield 

Priors of Lewes, methods of appt. 
See Lewes 


Quarry, 194-5 


Rectors : 

(in Yorkshire), see Almondbury, 
Bolton-upon-Dearne, Conis- 
borough, Dewsbury, Don- 
caster, Edlington, Fishlake, 
Halifax, Harthill, Hatfield, 
Hemsworth, Kirkburton, 
Kirkheaton, Maltby, Nor- 
manton, Rotherham, San- 
dal Magna, Silkstone, 
Wakefield 

(elsewhere in England), see 
Carlton Scroop, Oldham, 
Radcliffe, Ruddington 

Red Book of Exchequer, doubtful 
validity of some returns 
in, 181 

Reeves. See Alfred; Pain, Richard, 
Thomas 

Religious houses : 

(in Yorkshire), see Barnolds- 
wick, Byland, Fountains, 
Haines, Hampole, Hea- 
laugh, Hirst, Hood, Hos- 
pitallers, Kirklees, Kirk- 
stall, Monk Bretton, Nos- 
tell, Pontefract, Rievaulx, 
Roche, Sallay, Selby, 
Woodkirk, York 

(elsewhere in .England), see 
Abingdon, Alcester, Battle, 
Beauchief, Belvoir, Ber- 
mondsey, Binham, Blyth, 
Boxley, Bradenstoke, 
Brinkburn, Bungay, 
Burton-on-Trent, Bury St. 
Edmunds, Carrow, Castle 
Acre, Chertsey, Chicksands, 
Clerkenwell, Coggeshall, 


SUBJECT INDEX 307 


Religious houses—continued 
Combermere, Coventry, 
Croxton, Dereham, Dover, 
Durham, Ely, Eye, Faver- 
sham, Felley, Finchale, 
Furness, Hospitallers, Lei- 
cester, Lewes, Lilleshall, 
Lincoln, Luffield, Michel- 
ham, Newminster, Norton, 
Reading, Romsey, St. Neots, 
St. Osyth, Sandtoft, Saw- 


trey, Sele, Shrewsbury, 
Slevesholme, Southampton, 
Southwark, Stamford, 


Stanlawe, Templars, Thet- 
ford, Tickford, Tintern, 
Tynemouth, Westminster, 
Worksop, Wormegay, 
Wymondham 
(in Scotland), see May 
(in Normandy), see Bec, Bel- 
lencombre, Caen, Cher- 
bourg, Foucarmont, Gres- 
tain, Longueville, Mortain, 
Préaux, Rouen, St-Evroul, 
St-Victor, St-Wandrille, 
Tréport, Valmont 
(elsewhere in France), see Charité, 
Cluny, Fontevrault, Fou- 
géres, Montmorillon, St- 
Bertin, St-Denis, St- 
Riquier, Templars 
Rent, terms for, in earl de Warenne’s 
land 22 2oe Ae 23) 
and see Gifts 
Rotult de Dominabus, 39, 40 
Rural deans. See Deans 


Saladin tithe, 220 
Scriptor of a charter named. See 
Adam, \Henry,.) Philip, 
Ralph, Reginald 
Scutage, 21n, 164, 170, 225 
of the honour of Warenne, 19», 


140 

of the honour of Wormegay, 
27-8, 32 

and see Ireland, Wales; and also 
Gifts 


Sealing’ of charter by earl and 
countess, 127 

Seals. See Assolf, Bosville, Eland, 
Hamelin, Kirklees, Raven, 
Thomas (e. of Lancaster), 
Thornhill, Warenne 

Seisin, livery by hair cut by bishop 
at the altar, 84 

mandate to re-seise, 75 

Seneschals. See Anjou, Normandy; 
and also Richard 

Serjeants. See Benedict, Isaac, 
William 


Serjeanty, grand, of a wapentake, 49 
Services, of dispenser, 225 
of entertainment, 57 
of fourth part of.a huntsman, 36 
Sheriff, action by, if earl was not 
in patria, 74, 242 
baronial and _ honorial, 
241-2; and see Holderness, 
Lewes, Wakefield; and also 
Charters 
and see Edward, Warin: and 
undey Counties (named) 
Sokeman. See Gifts 
Sokes. See Conisborough, Grantham 
Stewards, administrative action of, 
king’s, see Ralph 
of earls de Warenne in York- 
shire, list of, 243-50; and 
see Conisborough, Sowerby- 
shire, Wakefield 
, elsewhere (named), 242-3; 
see also Boreham, Lewes, 
Robert, Wiharville 
——, of the household, see 
Hospinell 
and see Belfoc, Butler, Godham, 
Henry, Hodroyd, Ludham, 
Osbert, Ranulf, William, 
Wridlesford 


Sheriffs, 


T. and Th’., ambiguity of, as initial 
letters, 96 


Tailors. See Hugh, Wiluam 
Testament. See Hatfield (Hugh de) 


Third penny. See Norfolk 
Tithes, admonition for non-payment 
of 95-6 
held at farm from office of 
priory chamberlain, 236 
of cheeses, 88 
of corn, hay, animals, cheeses 
and rents, 84 
of demesne, see Wakefield 
of eels, 110-1, 129, 134 
of fisheries, 108 
of hall, see Conisborough, Wake- 
field 
of mills, 108, 127 
of money and rents, 95-6, 99, 
100, 105-8, 131-2, 246 
of [?] shingle, 105-6 
of tolls 127 
settlements of disputes, 164-6 
and see Bramley, Greasbrough, 
Heaton, Rotherham, San- 
dal Magna 
Toll. See Bellencombre 
Treaty between duke Henry and 
king Stephen, texts, 15-6 
Trees. See Wood 


308 HONOUR OF WARENNE 


Vaccaries. See Saltonstall 
Vavasor, fee of, 125-6 
Venison, veneysoun. See Gifts 
Vicarage, assignment of money for, 
107 
and see Braithwell, Conisborough 
Vicars, institution of, 107 
Vicomte. See Touraine 
Vintner. See Ralph 


Warranty, exchange in default of, 
92, 170, 198-9 
in twelfth-century, charters, 
158, 167, 193, 198, 200, 
205, 208, 230-1 


Warranty—continued 
money-payment in default of, 
168 
Water-bailiff. See Mararius 
wergeldum, equivalent of danegeld, 


wong, wang, 110, 172 
Wood, woods, aeries of birds in, 234 
agreement for cutting oaks, 214 
making assarts in, 234-5 
oaks retained, 224 
sale of; excepted, 222, 233 
and see Altofts, Shitlington, 
Sowerbyshire, Wakefield 
Writs, of last presentation, 175 
king’s, in earl’s court, 215 


i PoP eT aN 
toe | x : 


o > 
Ane 


7 
ta! 


; ey a 
; ae Henan ie 
(aiea Boas 


0 Th, See 


A he 
4 ria rd 

; - ie 
a Sl a ae 


ai 


5 ie a 
ere Wa a] Lt 
Das (ses 2 
7 ew 
he ay 


a7 ne 


ae > at «i a (a 
bd ey th Oe le 
[ q poli ae Pe. 
2 reo ULW 
| ve d 
, si " i 2. 7 pa! | 
wae 19 i Ps ye? fai iin, 

a ft ) 
ik RN ata 
. oem oo) eee: 
mh, 2 eS 3 2 

: oa oe 
7 5 ¥ Pals “a 
" eu |. Yon Ee eee 
“ e. 
1D Ae, 2 ; 
a ae = vie 
< a | 4 : 
‘ 
“ 
' 
Pa * * »- 
Ps Pay 
ae , 
> 4 
i" BA 2 p 
« iy 
F) » - n ? ‘. 
*. ' 7 F) as 
fl 4 f 
’ ape ; 7 
> fw Se eee 
" ee 
(ieee Oe 
. i or ck. 4 
yee > i 
2 eri Ba! , oe ae of 
os ie ae 
a ¥ ta vay 
a 2 wr ie Lo od t y 
my Li a . 
ar Ts , _ nr 


o . yi, i, 


-_ o 


are 


a 
, en f: * 
: ’ * uN a : : a 
V7! ’ =) : o A Me 
A V2 > g& 
i | > ee As = _" os 
ALY .> t ae aa 
oes ie, a 2 >. 
Sy re: a 
Or ate ,- - v t+ 2”) 
+ ry ED 


Pi 
b 
{ 
4 
2 
ly ‘ . 
= . 2 
. = 
« 
‘ 
j 
= i 
rs 7 
7 .] 
‘ 
= % 
. 
5 if : 
- » 
: * #.: id ; 
HY © 
~- » 2 
a Wl, ? 
P anew 
# 4 ood 
» 
a “4, : 7 
. yl eg 4, 
ma 
f | F 
+ — ye, 
eh , a) a 


aa) Lar te ee aN oe ao : : : J ie 2 Se 


ae 
y ‘ 
an 
i 
” 
c isha Sythe A we a ; : 
a ¥ veh be phe : he 
Verh ya “ pe yhind i bh OF FF : e 5 | if : | | 
vie Oe ie | | 
rin +e | : : 
‘ ae a , ‘ 1 : 
e 4 «? ’ 
arb ’ Me 
fe Ay? ’ ’ 
’ 
Ta . 
‘ 


ye +> 
seee Heat? 
man ete! 
SARA Se 
‘ ’ 


a 
ha 


fatale oo OE : | 
De Ran a ey 
ty Rrater erty. | 
3 TeteTe. BY | : 
fi ne | 
: i 
a | 
deny a MISS ; | 
epee des yon t P pM deh Ie 3 : | 
. nee fabg ty taTylt 
psf Ray Wh het ah a8 be peree pant t ; ce 
7 fey 4 | | : 
: , 
peretiey : 
ia 
’ 
a 
' 
“ 
F ’ 
’ ’ 
n Z . 
ght 
: 
| j 
ne | 
i, | 
? 
ore, , 
f . ; 
vee 
a 
4 : 
R ol P . 
’ ‘ ‘ 1 4 
Ay: ’ “ ‘ 
‘ ¥ ; 
ea | | | 
4 as , , 4" , » 1 
vi 
taete: on : | 
pon ras re 
+ : he 
ow? ‘ " 
f : : 
: we - le 
: . a i 
v ye os : 
ne | 
are 
4 uf 
, 
. ¢ be 
ar r 7 ¥ eS 
ve owt S 
: , a at 
, na ( . 
; : Patt Leet) 
, * ‘ i a ‘e 
rae eae i to : 
spine” “oe i a ~ 7 , 
Pere tat ‘i Piney, 
» a pe 7 * aa) oe 
# Lay Ne yey sasate tied r r ’ 
wr ‘ os as : 4 
7 ser i, : 


eee 
> 


ban 


este 


es 
Ree 
ae 


Late 


aby af * 
ri 4 


“ 
ria 


as 


Let 
: =,* 


7” 
ee 
ie imA® 


eis 


aes de th 4 et 
ete ha hts oe tet. 0 te? 
ve 4 u : 
boa We Am eee 
ts AP 
7 


flr ed elaletelalyre 
fee. Sate 
WA haly tates 


jinn 
Yee ee 
fi py 

+ ah 
ae eS Ae 


4 ® 
eat ty 


ak ee 


$F 


oss 


oo 


eee 

foe ar ae moi eM ° 
ted bee 
ya t, 


‘y if 
MN La 
ut ly *) 
Ay ate 


eat w 
, 
» 


, 
‘ 
_ ee wee af Tatyy 


