ors 
Ets 


nll fs 


ae eca 


ae rte Foe 
Cas Cech 
ata 


east 
Sint phetasive 
3 
SPAIN 
eat a a 


ro ae © 


Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2022 with funding from 
Yorkshire Archaeological & Historical Society 


httos://archive.org/details/YASES7 


EARLY YORKSHIRE .CHARTERS 


> he 


-_ 


mes 


ant 
= 


on all av 


9 


pied 
; 


—_ 


ae 


>. 


Sane 


ee 


= 


_ =. 
—— 


PLATE II! 


‘ur Fv Aq g 921g 


foe a 


ere kd a haa “ 


Lua murouya)p> jal ’ ya bate m9 
ans 24 Ri iia oh PR sew _aun) mb one & 
gee 4 tet. 
GRO fue ae panib swH 20> . uyr opfenhe 
6 5 A game tupnijoniop marae 
ie aaraenat 


) a eae oes oe ore yO . | 


por eyo e BM 
S28 PES ae at os pol Ming 


EARLY 
YORKSHIRE CHARTERS 


VOL.” EX 


THE STUTEVILLE FEE 


BASED ON THE MANUSCRIPTS OF THE LATE 
WILLIAM FARRER 


AND EDITED BY 


CHAKELES TRAVIS CLAY, 0.3. 7. B.A, 


PRINTED FOR 
THE YORKSHIRE ARCHAOLOGICAL SOCIETY 
RECORD SERIES 


EXTRA SERIES: VOL. Vi 
1952 


ar 


sé 


mls 
Me 4 


7 


Printed by 
THE WEST YORKSHIRE PRINTING CO. LIMITED, 
WAKEFIELD 


INTRODUCTION 


The present volume which deals with the family of Stuteville 
is issued to subscribers to the Record Series for the year 1950. 

The various branches of the family, which took its name 
from Etoutteville-sur-Mer in the arrondissement of Yvetot, dept. 
Seine-Inférieure, present several intricate problems. In the 
first place it is desirable, and not always easy, to distinguish be- 
tween what may be called conveniently the Norman line, whose 
tenure of Valmont, lying about thirteen miles from the place of 
origin, passed in male succession for many generations, and the 
English line from whose senior branch were descended the Wakes 
of Cottingham, Kirkby Moorside and Liddel. Confusion between 
members of the two lines is accentuated by the fact that the 
christian names Robert and Nicholas were used extensively in 
both. Thus, in the second half of the twelfth century a Robert 
was the head of each line ; a Nicholas with a son Nicholas occurs 
in each line at the beginning of the thirteenth ; and as a climax 
of complexity fifty years later a Robert in each line had a wife 
named Joan. It is only by an attempt to use the evidence of the 
descent of land that a distinction between members of the two 
lines can be preserved. 

There is reasonably good proof that the two lines were 
closely related, and that both descended from Robert de Stute- 
ville I, who lost his possessions as a result of the battle of Tinche- 
_braiin 1106. To him had been given a large portion of the Domes- 
day holdings in Yorkshire of Hugh son of Baldric ; and it happens 
that two holdings of Hugh in Hampshire passed to the Norman 
line. An attempt is made in Chapter II to throw further light 
on Hugh son of Baldric, who was certainly of Norman origin ; 
and, although there is an absence of proof to establish his parentage, 
his Domesday holdings in England and the course of their sub- 
sequent history suggest the deduction that both lines of the 
Stuteville family descended from Robert I. 

In order to illustrate the distinction between the two lines 
it has been thought desirable to trace the descent of the Norman 
line down to the time when it lost its English holdings. These 
were acquired in at least three different ways: first, through 
~the possession of lands in Hampshire which had been held by 
Hugh son of Baldric in 1086, and which had passed in all pro- 
bability to Robert de Stuteville I ; secondly, through the marriage 
with Leonia daughter of Edward of Salisbury and Adeliz de 
Rames, which brought not only the honour of Rames in Nor- 
mandy, together with an under-tenancy of the important manor 
of Dedham in Essex, but also a moiety of the barony of 30 knights’ 
fees, mainly in Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire, an inheritance 
from the Domesday tenant-in-chief Ralph son of Hubert ; and 
thirdly, through the marriage with Eleanor de Genoure, which 
brought the extensive castlery of Mitford in Northumberland. 


Vv 


vl STUTEVILLE FEE 


Details of all these holdings are given in §7 of Chapter I. It will 
be seen that although in 1204 the head of the line, Henry, Leonia’s 
son and heir, who married one of earl Hamelin’s daughters, 
adhered to Philip Augustus, he had a temporary restoration of 
his English lands early in the reign of Henry IIi ; and that before 
his death they were confirmed to his son John. It was the latter’s 
son Robert, enjoying the king of England’s favour, who acquired 
the castlery of Mitford by marriage. So, except when the two 
countries were actually at war, the lords of Valmont retained 
their English possessions. There are frequent references to the 
grant of licences to go overseas from Northumberland in the 
period 1282 to 1292, which, we may suppose, were for the purpose 
of visiting Valmont. Although on the outbreak of war in 1294 
Robert adhered to the king of France, he recovered his Euglish 
lands after the peace in 1303. At his death three years later a 
son by his first wife inherited Valmont, and by virtue of a settle- 
ment his English lands passed to his son by his second wife, 
Eleanor de Genoure. Both this son and the latter’s son and 
heir were born overseas; and eventually, though not before 
1337, the English inheritance was finally forfeited. The family 
thus affords an unusual example of the tenure of lands on both 
sides of the Channel to so late a date. 


Of this Norman line there were several younger branches. 
One of these was established at Stratfield in Hampshire, which 
acquired temporarily the name of Stratfield Stuteville, and which, 
passing by marriage to the family of Say, became known in its 
modern form of Stratfield Saye. Another acquired an interest in 
Kimberley in Norfolk by marriage with a daughter of the family 
of Gournay. A third held two of Leonia’s manors as an under- 
tenancy of the eldest branch, and, although of alien status in 
three generations, retained them until their sale in 1332; and a 
younger son of the eldest branch held, also as an under-tenancy, 
the manor of Eckington in Derbyshire which was the “native 
village’ whose tales have been recorded by Sir George Sitwell. 


In Normandy the family descended in the male line until 
the sixteenth century, when the duchy d’ Estouteville was created 
in favour of the heiress and her husband, a member of the royal 
house of France. It had spread into several branches, of which 
a detailed account is given by Pére Anselme in his Histoire 
généalogique ...de France. A history of the family was published 
in Paris about fifty years ago by M. G. de la Morandiére, to 
which a reference is given in the text of the present volume in a 
noc on pi 4h 


To print the texts of charters relating to the English 
possessions of the Norman line is outside our present purpose. 
But several have been used as documentary evidence for state- 
ments in the narrative account. In particular, an important 
collection of original charters is contained in the muniments of 
Eton College. They refer to the hermitage at Stratfield which 


INTRODUCTION Vill 


was the subject of a gift to the abbey of Valmont. A calendar in 
abstract form was published in the ninth report of the Historical 
Manuscripts Commission ; and a complete series of transcripts 
has been made recently by Mr. Noel Blakiston, who has kindly 
allowed me to inspect it. A printed edition, with if possible some 
collotype illustrations, would be of special interest. 


The English line of the Stutevilles, with which the present 
volume is primarily concerned, and its several branches, descended 
from Robert de Stuteville III and some of his younger brothers. 
As the eldest branch died out in the male line before the middle 
of the thirteenth century, the family finds no place in The Complete 
Peerage ; but John Wake, grandson of the heiress Joan de Stute- 
ville, was summonded to Parliament in 1295, and the barony of 
Wake eventually fell into abeyance in 1408 on the death of the 
younger grandson and heir of the Fair Maid of Kent.” 


In view, however, of the baronial status of the family, a 
detailed account of the Stutevilles, of great value by reason of its 
documentary references, was included by Dugdale in his Baronage.8 
He was clearly of the opinion that the Robert who fought at the 
battle of the Standard in 1138 and the Robert who lived to at least 
as late as 1176 were one and the same person, though he gives 
him as Robert II (who was fighting in 1106) instead of Robert ITI. 
Certain amendments to Dugdale’s pedigree must assuredly be made. 
Thus, Sibyl de Valognes was not the second wife of Robert III, 
but the wife of his grandson Robert son of Nicholas I. Nicholas I 
- was undoubtedly the brother and not a younger son of William the 
justice ; and a distinction must be made between the Osmund 
who was the ancestor of the Stutevilles of Weston Colville and 
Burton Agnes, and the Osmund who was the father of William 
de Stuteville of Cowesby and Gressenhall. 


The article on Robert de Stuteville (2.e. Robert de Stuteville 
III) and his son William in The Dictionary of National Biography 
(1898) follows Dugdale in the main, so far as the genealogy is 
concerned. But the author stated, evidently following Sir Harris 
Nicolas,* that ““Dugdale makes one person of the Robert Stute- 
ville who fought at the battle of the Standard and the justiciar, 
but in this he was no doubt in error.”’ This is a crucial matter, 
and the evidence given in the present volume suggests a restora- 
tion of Dugdale’s opinion, with the proviso already mentioned. 
The statement, not derived from Dugdale, that Sir William de 
Skipwith descended from a collateral branch of the family is at 
least open to doubt ;§ nor was Robert de Stuteville III the founder 
of Rosedale priory.® 

1 See pp. 47-8 in Chapter I. 

2 Complete Peerage, \st ed., viii, 36; J. W. Clay, Extinct and Dormant 
Peevages of the Northern Counties, p. 230. 

3 Vol. i, pp. 455-9 ; chart ped. on p. 456. 

* Historic Peerage, p. 457. 

5 See Chapter IV, §2. 

6 See zbid., §19. That the priory was founded by Robert son of Nicholas 
I is equally untrue. 


ai STUTEVILLE FEE 


A considerable improvement in several points can be seen 
in the pedigree which Colonel Parker included in his paper on 
‘The Redmans of Yorkshire’ in 1911.1 But he retained the theory 
of the Skipwith descent by making a certain Patrick de Skipwith 
a younger son of Robert de Stuteville II ; and the statement that 
Robert de Stuteville of Cowesby and Gressenhall had in marriage 
the manor of Hegginton |7.e. Eckington], co. Derby, and Dedham, 
co. Essex, is an example of the confusion with a member of the 
Norman line. The evidence, now available, suggests that Burga 
de Stuteville who married William de Vescy was a daughter and 
not a sister of Robert de Stuteville III ; and it is very unlikely 
that Osmund de Stuteville, who married the Gressenhall heiress, 
could have been the latter’s brother. 

But if amendments can be made with some degree of con- 
fidence to earlier accounts of the family there are many details 
which are still obscure. No satisfactory clue is available for the 
parentage of Erneburga wife of Robert de Stuteville II. On the 
one hand, it has been stated that this elusive lady, the second 
half of whose christian name was given to several of her descend- 
ants, was a daughter of Hugh son of Baldric ; and on the other, 
it was suggested by Farrer that she was a daughter of Geoffrey. 
Murdac. Neither of these theories can be accepted. It is to be 
hoped that evidence may be found, perhaps from a Norman 
source, which may provide a satisfactory clue; for the guess 
which is made on p. 3”, having in its favour the not unattractive 
idea that it was through her that the caput of the family’s Norman 
possessions was changed from Etoutteville-sur-Mer to Valmont, 
has not the slightest documentary support. 

Another point which must be left unproved, though the 
evidence makes it reasonably probable, is whether William de 
Stuteville of Cowesby and Gressenhall was the same William who 
through his wife Margery de Say held the honour of. Richard’s 
Castle in the thirteenth century. Again, it is a matter of doubt 
whether the former’s son Robert, whose wife was named Joan, 
was the husband of Joan Talbot rather than the Robert, head 
of the Norman line, whose first wife had the same christian name ; 
the latter alternative has been tentatively adopted (p. 62m). 


Several points of interest arise in the descent of younger 
-branches of the English line. The evidence is practically con- 
clusive that a daughter of John de Stuteville, a younger brother 
of Robert de Stuteville III, whose interests lay mainly in Warwick- 
shire, married Meldred son of Dolfin, the ancestor in the male 
line of the Nevilles of Raby (p. 26). The Pantulf family, closely 
connected with this branch, which has complications of its own 
(p. 27), affords a clue for the reconsideration of the descent of the 
baronial family of Tateshall.2 From the branch which held Weston 
Colville, co. Cambridge, of the honour of Warenne, and Burton 
Agnes of the Brus fee, descends in unbroken succession, through 


1 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxi, 68. 
2 On this point see Complete Peerage, new ed., xii (i), p. 648. 


LNTRODUCTION 1X 


a series of hereditary steps, the tenure of Burton Agnes (pp. 31-2). 
Although in most of these younger branches the Stutevilles died 
out in the male line before 1300, a branch continued at Cottingham 
to a later date ; and it is to be hoped that evidence will become 
available in the future to prove the actual descent from the main 
line, which at present remains obscure (p. 40). 


§2. 

At the outset of the preparation of this volume a problem 
of some complexity had to be considered. In general terms the 
problem is whether, in cases where a tenant-in-chief (A) returned 
in his carta in 1166 knights’ fees held of him by B, and B was 
himself a tenant-in-chief returning his own carta, charters re- 
lating to the lands composing those knights’ fees should be in- 
cluded in a volume primarily concerned with the honour of A or 
in one primarily concerned with the honour of B.t For the present 
purpose preference has been given to the latter alternative ; and 
therefore charters relating to lands in Yorkshire which formed 
part of the knights’ fees held in 1166 by Robert de Stuteville III 
of Roger de Mowbray have been included in a separate chapter. 
A note of these is given in the introduction to that chapter (p. 
200). The charters include several relating to Welburn and the 
lost vill of Hoveton nearby ; and, in describing the bounds of 
those vills in great detail, they give a large number of place- 
names, some of which can be identified from modern maps, and 
many more of which could perhaps be identified in the light of 
an intimate knowledge of the locality. 


§3. 


Original charters issued by members of the English line of 
the Stutevilles in the twelfth century, or by their tenants, are 
difficult to discover. No charter of Robert de Stuteville III has 
been found to be available. The eight collotype plates, of which 
a list is given at the end of the Table of Contents, include a charter 
of the heiress Joan de Stuteville, issued in the period 1266-74, 
to which an interesting seal was attached, showing her seated on 
a side-saddle with the Stuteville arms on a shield carried in her 
left hand. 

Apart from these, considerable use has been made of Dods- 
worth’s transcripts of the original charters housed in St. Mary’s 
Tower at York after the Dissolution. Dr. Burton’s brief calendar 
of the originals shows that the total which survived, and which 
were then in his possession, was 1868.2 These originals were at 
Burton Constable about the year 1840; but it is feared that 

1 Such a case in point is the tenure of Masham by the Mowbrays as 
an under-tenancy of the honour of Richmond ; charters relating to it were 
not included in the volumes dealing with the latter (F.Y.C., v, p. vii). 

2,-N. Denholm-Young, ‘Yorkshire Monastic Archives’ in Bodleian 
Quarterly Record, viii, 97-8. About 132 texts from the originals were pd. 
in Monasticon Anglicanum (ibid.), and about 70 relating to St. Mary’s 
abbey in Drake, Eboracum, pp. 601-22. 


x STUTEVILLE FEE 


almost all of them are no longer in existence. About 1825 in 
number were transcribed by Dodsworth, though with no attempt 
at arrangement, in his MSS. vii and viii for a ‘Monasticon Boreale’. 
In the present volume the texts of 25 charters are printed from 
his vol. vii; and these bring the total number of texts from his 
vols. vii and viii, printed in the series of Early Yorkshire Charters 
to about 274.2, Several more were transcribed for Farrer for 
other honours which have not yet been undertaken, including 
Mowbray, Percy, Ros, Tickhill and Vescy. 


Another of the Dodsworth volumes which has been of 
special use is his vol. lxii. This contains his copy of the Byland 
Chartulary.2 The original chartulary (Egerton MS. 2823) is defec- 
tive ; for all the folios earlier than f. 74, and several subsequent 
folios are missing. A great part of the earliest portion, consisting 
of abbot Philip’s Foundation History, compiled in 1197, is printed 
in the Monasticon ;4 but the charters interspersed in it were 
omitted. Of these Farrer printed three,> and one or two more 
from Dodsworth’s texts which are now missing from the chartulary. 
Six charters from this volume of Dodsworth are printed in the 
present volume. 


A large number of charters, especially relating to places in. 
the neighbourhood of Kirkby Moorside, has been taken from the 
Rievaulx Chartulary (Cotton MS. Julius D. 1). As Farrer pointed 
out® the texts in the printed edition are often robbed of important 
passages, regarded as of common form ; and the texts now printed 
have been completed from, and compared with the manuscript. 
An important amendment of the date of one of the charters 
given in the printed edition has had to be made (no. 91). 


A fragment of a chartulary of the priory of North Ferriby, 
now in the Bodleian Library, for the reference to which I am 
indebted to the Rev. J. C. Dickinson, contains a charter which 
has a special interest of its own. John de Hessle gave to the 


1 For certain originals which have survived see Mr. Denholm-Young’s 
note at p. 96”. For about 14 originals which Dodsworth left behind him 
at Chevet Park see Yorks. Deeds, vii, pp..x, xi, cited 2bid. 

2 About 140 from MS. vii (mainly North and East Ridings), and about 
134 from MS. viii (mainly West Riding). Not included in these there are 
about 47 from MS. vii and 2 from MS. viii pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, and 
similarly 53 and one in Guisborough Chartulary. Abstracts of 13 from MS. 
viii, relating to the Hospitallers are pd. in Miscellanea, vol. i (Yorks. Rec. 

. Series) and 33 from the two volumes relating to Northumberland in New- 
castle upon Tyne Records Series, vol. vii. The witness clauses of about 20 
are given in the pd. edition of the Kirkstall Coucher Book, with notes of several 
more of Dodsworth’s texts. Thus, including those pd. by Drake and in Mon. 
Ang. (though there is some overlapping with the above figures), it can be 
suggested that the historical content of about a third of the charters con- 
tained in Dodsworth’s two volumes is now available in print. 

3 In ‘Roger Dodsworth and his circle’, by N. Denholm-Young and 
H.H.E. Craster (Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxii, 31-2) it is noted that Dodsworth 
worked on the chartulary, then penes John Rushworth, in March 1648 and 
collated his texts in Oct. 1649. 

4 Mon. Ang., v, 349-54. 

5 E.Y.C., ili, nos. 1833-5 ; six more are pd. in £.Y.C., iv, nos. 23, 24, 
29, 67, and v, nos, 371-2. © Toid., 1, p. Wii; aUOCy.dVv, pp: va. 


INTRODUCTION x1 


priory land which was confirmed by Robert de Stuteville III 
(no. 18); and one of his charters (note thereto), issued at the 
siege of Acre, had among its witnesses Roger ‘persona de Houden’. 
It is to be hoped that a full transcript of the fragment may be 
made available in print, with a considered note which may throw 
important light on the career of one of the best-known chroniclers 
of the twelfth century. 


For the sources from which the texts of the charters have 
been taken a list is given in the first of the indexes. They include 
a charter (no. 62, plate IV), which Madox printed, though without 
the full list of witnesses, in his Formulare Anglicanum from the 
original in the Augmentations Office. This is numbered 408 in 
his book ; and this number has been preserved in the present 
reference-number of the original now in the Public Record 
Office. 


An appendix at the end of the volume contains some notes 
on the early priors of Newburgh. Notes on the early abbots of 
the two Cistercian houses of Byland and Rievaulx, of whom 
there are several mentions in this volume, will be found in a 
recently issued paper by the present writer in the Yorkshire 
Archaeological Journal. The evidence which is given here on 
pp. 93 and 197 suggests that the usually accepted dates of founda- 
tion of the priories of Keldholme and Rosedale are subject to 
revision. 


My acknowledgements are due to the Controller of Her 
Majesty’s Stationery Office for permission to print the texts of 
four charters from the printed edition of the Curia Regis Rolls, 
now in progress, of several from the printed editions of the Charter 
Rolls, and of passages from volumes in the Rolls Series ; to the 
Lincoln Record Society for permission to print three texts from 
the Registrum Antiquissimum ; and to the Dean and Chapter of 
York, the Dean and Chapter of Durham, and the Librarian of 
Nottingham University for permission to print texts from originals 
or manuscripts in their possession or custody. 


It is a pleasure to record my thanks to the Rev. Chancellor 
Harrison and Miss Brunskill, and to Mr. F. Taylor, Keeper of 
Manuscripts in the John Rylands Library, for their kindness in 
checking several points in Farrer’s transcripts made from manu- 
scripts in their custody; and for help in a large and varied 
number of ways to Sir Frank and Lady Stenton, Miss Kathleen 
Major, Miss Dorothy Whitelock, Professor David Douglas, Pro- 
fessor J. G. Edwards, Mr. Christopher Brooke, Mr. R. W. Hunt, 
Mr. R. H. Whiteing, Sir Edmund Craster, Sir Cyril Flower, and 
Mr. R. E. Latham and Mr: N. J. Williams of the Public Record 
Office. Mr. G. Ellis Flack, Librarian of Nottingham University, 
and Mr. J. Conway Davies have kindly given me special facilities 
for the provision éf photographs of charters at Nottingham and 
Durham respectively. 


Xil STUTEVILLE FEE 


My thanks are also due to the Oxford University Press for 
the preparation of the collotype plates, and to the directorate 
and staff of the West Yorkshire Printing Company for their 
careful work in producing the volume. 


CHARLES CLAY 
11 Lite St., CBLLSEA 
July, 1952 


ADDENDUM 


To the account of Hugh son of Baldric given in Chapter II 
may be added the reference that a Hugh ‘filius Baldici’ (indexed 
as Hugh ‘fils de Baudry’) witnessed a confirmation charter of 
Robert Curthose, duke of Normandy, to the church of Bayeux on 
24 April 1089 (Ant. Cart. Eccl. Baiocensis, Soc. Hist. de Normandie, 
i, 8), “If the witness is the Domesday tenant, as is likely,.che 
reference shows that the antecessor of Robert de Stuteville I in 
England was in the entourage of duke Robert; and it may be that 
on that account his English lands became the subject of forfeiture, 
the possibility of which is noted on p. 72; but it must not be re- 
garded as clear that he was not still in possession of them when 
the Conqueror died. 


No oe 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 
CHAPTER I. 


THE STUTEVILLE- FAMILIES 


The descent of the main English line 

The Stutevilles of Warwickshire 

The Stutevilles of Weston Colville and Burton ae 
The Stutevilles of Cowesby and Gressenhall 

The Stutevilles of Great Ayton and Hemlington 

A younger branch of Cottingham 

The early generations of the Norman line 


APPENDIX A. Geoffrey Murdac and the claims of Thurstan 
de Montfort 


APPENDIX B. Some unplaced members of the family 


CHAPTER ii. 
THE LANDS OF THE STUTEVILLE FEE 


CHAPTER 111. 
CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 


Robert de Stuteville 1 to St. Mary’s York—land in Moreby 


King Henry I to the church of Lincoln—confirmation of 
houses in Lincoln 

Same to the bishop of ee ale eee of Cad Kirkby 
Moorside and Hovingham 


Robert de Stuteville III to St. Mary’s ey ee 
of Harton and land in Sutton by Stamford Bridge 


Savaric abbot of St. Mary’s to Robert de Stuteville I1]—land 


in Sutton 

Robert de Stuteville UI to St. ie. Pan er le 
Hole 

Same and Richard teas to Durham _priory—church of 
Skipwith — 


Same to Byland sins Seine ise of gifts 
Same to Meaux abbey—mill in Cottingham 


Same to Rievaulx ee ee of Hoveton and 
Welburn 


Same to same—confirmation of meadow of Rook Eades 


Same to Keldholme priory—confirmation of lands and gift 
of Rook Barugh + a oe 

King John to same—confirmation of gifts bd 

Archbishop Roger—settlement of the os Sa 
to the chapel of Cowesby 

Robert de Stuteville III to Geoffrey Peccg hae S fee 
in Sutton under Whitestone Cliffe, ae and Lays- 
thorpe - - : 


70 


X1V 


46. 
47. 


STUTEVILLE FEE 


Same to Adam Fossard—confirmation of same and advowson 
of Felixkirk 


Robert dean of ORES ee of lands in L sales and 
Kalburn 


Robert de Stuteville tll to North Ferriby isa a 
firmation of land in Hessle .. 


William de Stuteville to Rievaulx abbey—land and pasture 
in Murton 


Same to Guisborough priory—confirmation of pene of 
Hessle ‘ 


Agreement between the prior of Guisborough and Richard 
Duket—church of Hessle 


Wilham de a the benefactions to Meaux 
abbey 


Newburgh priory to William de Seuteville—chaplain at 
Gillamoor 


William de eee to N aia priory—confirmation of 
Hood 


Same to Byland era wekeeu: soRiioanton ee 
Same to Keldholme priory—confirmation of land in Fadmoor 
Same to John de Ryton—land in Hutton le Hole 

Same to Whitby abbey—church of Great Ayton 


Same to Arnold de Upsall—confirmation of ied South 
Kailvington and Thornbrough eA 


Same to Geoffrey de Bosco Willelmi—land in Little Cattal 


St. Andrew’s priory, York to William de Stuteville—quit- 
claim of land in Kirkby Ouseburn and the advowson 


Hugh Murdac to William de Stuteville—quitclaim of same 


William de Stuteville to Fountains TEPae Ine in Kirkby 
Ouseburn 


Same to Bardney abbey aL comtinmeien ae Shure. of Gadak 
Hale and Heckington 


King John to William de Stevie mnie at Oneeuata 7 
Same to same—confirmation of Bramham and other lands 
Same to same—market and fair at Buttercrambe .. 

Same to same—appointment as sheriff of Yorkshire 


Same to same—licence to paid houses of Cottingham and 
Buttercrambe ve 


Same to same—Bardsey and aiher vills . 
Same to same—fine for confirmation and other ete 


Agreement between William de Stuteville and William de 
Mowbray 


Record of same : 
Further record site. to same 


King John to Robert son of William de Stuteville—con- 
firmation of ec eae and PEOMEMD MESS and 
other lands ; 

Same to same—confirmation of eatdsiins ang fain 


Same to archbishop sisal ahs and eee of patent 
de Stuteville . 


Page 


67. 


CONTENTS 


Same—notification of fine made by Nicholas de Stuteville | . 


Nicholas de Stuteville I to Fountains eine amma 
of land in Kirkby Ouseburn 


Same to Kirkstall oo ae of Collingham a 
Bardsey : 


‘Same to Keldholme Pe ee in mill of Gillamoor 


Same to same—rent in ecclesiastical benefice in Yorkshire 


Same to church of Lincoln—confirmation of land in South 
Ferriby 


Philip de Valognes to ee son of Nicholas de ee ille I— 
vill of Torpenhow in marriage Se 


Ikking John to Rosedale priory—confirmation 
Eustace de Stuteville to same—land in Middleton 
Same to St. Peter’s hospital, York—land in Cawthorn 


Nicholas de Stuteville II to Newburgh DO per ele ia 
of church of Kirkby Moorside 


Same to the archbishop of spa canter oa of land in 
Boltby and Ravensthorpe 


Same to Byland abbey—confirmation of manor of } Vn 


Joan de Stuteville to Watton et ona as of aid 
in Hessle 


John de Stuteville to Bipeeat ] supine in Long een 


Same to Thorney cage ee ia of half the vill of Wing 
and gift of the church 


Anselm de Stuteville to Robert palaneeiaad in Little Kelke. 
Alice de Stuteville to Bridlington priory—toft in Thornholme 
Agnes de Stuteville to same—same 


CHAPTER LV. 
CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 
Robert de Stuteville [1I—return of knights’ fees 


§2. THE MURDAC FEE 


William son of Osbert de Skipwith to Selby sbbey—land in 
_ Skipwith and Menthorpe 


Jordan de Menthorpe to same—toft in Mensnases 


Geoffrey Murdac to St. pres York—land in Sutton by 
Stamford Bridge 


§3. THE CAMIN FEE 
§4. THE COWESBY FEE 


Osmond de Stuteville—settlement of controversy with the 
bishop of Durham relating to the chapel of Cowesby 


Nisand de Newsham to Fountains abbey—land and pasture 
in Newsham a: oe - 


Same to same—land in same 


William son of Osmund de Stuteville to same—confirmation 
of same 


Robert de Stuteville to same—release weal land in same 


XV 


Page 
122 
122 


123 
123 
124 


124 


125 
126 
P27 
127 


128 


128 
129 


130 
13] 


132 
133 


133 


134 


145 
145 


XV1 


82. 


94, 


95. 


96. 


os 


98. 


29, 


100. 


STUTEVILLE PEE 


§5. THE CRUER FEE 


Agreement between Byland seid) and Richard Cruer—land 
in Cold Kirby : 


Thurstan de Cawton to Osmund Cruer—land near ee 
Richard Cruer to St. Peter’s hospital, York—land in same 


William Lascelles to Rievaulx abbey—quitclaim of meadow 
and rent in same oe ae 


§6. THE FOSSARD FEE 


Geoffrey Fossard and Maud his wife—land in Sutton under 
Whitestone Cliffe 


Agreement between Arnold de pipes and Adam Foscard— 
bounds and wood in same ; 


Similar agreement 

Robert Fossard to the Fipesiemed Sia in Felixkirk 
Same to Robert de Kirby—rent for pasture in Sutton 
Same to the Templars—same 

Same to Byland abbey—land in ee and Sutton 
Same to Henry Fossard—toft in Sutton .. 


Thomas Fossard to Byland SE agen fee im Sutton 
and other places 


§7. THE BOLTBY FEE 


Odo de Boltby to Rievaulx abbey easements in botby, 
Ravensthorpe and Thirlby 


Adam de Boltby to same—land in Boltby ae 

Final concord between Rievaulx abbey and Adam de Boltby . 

Adam de Boltby—relating thereto ; rd 

Ralph de Borrowby to Rievaulx abbey meadow in re 
$8. THE CORDANVILLE FEE 


Peter de Cordanville to Guisborough es ove and 
land in Sherburn a 


Same to same—same “o i 
Adam de Cordanville to Malton priory—land in same 
§9, THE CAPTOFT FEE 
§10. THE BOSSALL FEE : : 
Maud de Ganton to Maud de Bossall—land in Staxton 
§11. THE LANGTON FEE 
Burga de Vescy to Malton eet of caution 
§12. THE UPSALL FEE 


Arnold de Upsall to pee de Belvoir—sluice of mill in South 
Kilvington 


Ralph de Amundeville to same—confirmation of same 
§13. THE SLINGSBY FEE 
$14. THE FLAWITH AND THOLTHORPE FEES 
§15. THE STILLINGFLEET FEE 


$16. THE CLIFFORD FEE 


Page 
146 


148 
149 
150 


151 
152 


154 


154 
155 
156 
157 
157 
158 
158 


159. 
160 


165 
167 
167 
168 
169 
170 


171 
172 
173 


174 
174 
176 
177 
179 
180 
18] 
182 
183 
184 
185 
185 


LOL, 
102; 
103. 
104, 


105. 
106. 
107. 


108. 
109. 
LO: 


PEt. 


112. 
LES: 


114. 
115. 
116. 


ial 
LIS: 


119. 


120. 
1A 
122. 
123. 


124. 
125. 
126. 
127. 
128. 
129. 


CONTENTS 
$17. THE HESSLE FEE 
Ivo de Karkeni to Guisborough ae of Hessle 
‘John de Hessle to same—confirmation of same 
Robert de Hessle to same—confirmation of same 
Roger de North Cave to same—land in Tranby 
§18. THE ETTON FEE 2 . 
Thomas de Etton to Watton oe ea in Etton 
Same to Robert de Cowlam—land in Skerne : : 
Geoffrey de Etton to Meaux abbey—confirmation of land in 
Skerne ays bys fk 
§19. THE HONOURS OF LIDDEL AND ROSEDALE 
William de Rosedale to St. Peter’s ene x eee 
of Kershope , 
Malcolm king of Scotland to same—confirmation of land 
in Liddel 
William king of Scotland to jeans abliey—confirmation 
of gifts of Turgis and Guy de Rosedale 
King John to Rosedale priory—confirmation 
CHAPTER V. 
CHARTERS RELATING 7O IME SUB-TENURE- OF THE 
HONOUR OF MOWBRAY 
Dean and chapter of York to N ee Se ia ee 
of churches 
Robert de Maltby and Emma his wife to Keldholme ee 
—land in Nunnington and Fadmoor 
Roger de Mowbray to Rievaulx abbey—land in Farndale 
Same to abbot Gerold—Hood : 
Same and Gundreda his mother to Whitby abbey—messiage 
in York 
Abbot Gerold to Sioa tan of land in sais 
Roger de Mowbray to the canons at Hood—church of St. 
Andrew, York 
Same to Byland or ees in the mull of Ce in 
exchange for Hood ; 
Same—confirmation of ete Hae to Heed 
Hugh bishop of Durham—settlement relating to same 
Richard Malebisse to Newburgh priory—quitclaim of same 
Gundreda d’Aubigny to St. Michael’s alan Fa ap 
land in Hoveton : 
St. Michael’s hospital to Rievaulx egeuins in same 
Roger de Mowbray to same—Hoveton 
Same to same—confirmation of same 
Archbishop Roger to same—confirmation of same 
Agreement between Ralph Beler and same—Hoveton 
Samson de Cornwall and Hestilda his wife to same—dquit- 


claim in same 


XVil 


Page 
186 
189 
189 
189 
190 
1 
193 
193 


194 
195 


197 
198 


198 
199 


XVI1l1 


STUTEVILLE FEE 


P 


Sunnive wife of Lambert de Hoveton to same—same 


Pope Alexander IlI—-mandate for restorations to Rievaulx 
abbey 


Hugh son of Baldric to eo. Mary’s York—land in Hutton 
le Hole and elsewhere 


Geoffrey abbot of St. Mary’s to Gospatric son of Waltheof 
—land in same ; 


Same to same—facilities in same 


Roger de Mowbray to St. a i York—confirmation of 
Hutton le Hole ; 


Nigel de Mowbray to John de ey eee ee of land 


John de Daiville to Byland a ee of common 
in Kilburn ; os Pe A 


Agreement between same—same 


Robert de Surdeval to Rievaulx < abbey bounds of Welburn 
and Nawton ; 


Heirs of same to same—confirmation of gifts in Nawton 
Same in favour of same—relating to same 
Hugh del Tuit to same—meadow in Rook Barugh 


Robert de Bowforth to Keldholme gener eee of 
Rook Barugh 


Benedict son of Gervase to Rievaulx We Sant in Skiplam 
and Wombleton se 


Roger de Mowbray to same—confirmation of gift in Wotnble- 
ton Bi 


Alan de Ryedale and ee his wife to same—confirmation 
of same 


Ralph de “Wath to nay in seein 
Gundreda d’Aubigny to same—land in Welburn 
Same to same—land in Skiplam 

Roger de Mowbray to same—Welburn 

Same to same—villeins of Welburn 

Same to same—Welburn 

Same to same—same and Hoveton 


Same to same—acquittance of bounds against Robert de 
Daiville es 


King Henry IL to same—confirmation of Welburn and 
Hoveton 


Roger de Mowbray and Alan de Ryedale—settlement of 
dispute 


iri pete eam of Bovtortt moor 


Settlement of se dat between Rievaulx en and Alan de 
Ryedale 


Alan de Ryedale and Maud ie wife to er de » Mowbray 
and Rievaulx abbey—quitclaim 


Ralph de Wath to Rievaulx abbey—quitclaim of Welburn 


Walter de Grimston to same—same 


163. 


164. 


165. 


166. 


167. 
168. 


CONTENTS 


Roger de Mowbray to N hee aia in Wombleton 
and confirmation .. 


Agreement between Rievaulx ie and Newburgh Uae ae 
tithes of Welburn and Hoveton 


Roger de Mowbray to aie De alee Wildon and 
assarts in Kilburn 


Bartholomew Gigator to 0 Byland abbey—quitelaim of right in 
Wildon 


Roger de Cundy to same—same 
Robert de Daiville to same—land in Wildon 
APPENDIX Cc. The early priors of Newburgh 


INDEX OF SOURCES #5 
INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 
SUBJECT INDEX 


Mix 
Page 
244 
244 
245 


246 
247 
247 
248 


251 
253 


298 


LIST -OF PLATES 


18 Newburgh priory to William de Stuteville— 
chaplain at Gillamoor .. 

ie Wilham de Stuteville to Arnold de Upsall 

itt. Joan de Stuteville to Watton priory 

LV. John de Stuteville to Pipewell abbey 

V. Osmund de Stuteville—chapel of Cowesby 

Vt. Thurstan de Cawton to Osmund Cruer 


Vil. Peter de Cordanville to Guisborough priory 
VIII. Peter de Cordanville to Guisborough priory 


PHEDIGKEES 


The main English line 
The Stutevilles of Warwickshire 
The Norman line 


The Boltby family 


MAP 


Boltby and the parish of Felixkirk 


. facing page 102 
3 106 
frontispiece 

. facing page 131 
. 143 

. 150 

‘3 171 

re 172 

. facing page 1 
page 24 

is 42 

. 162 

page 161 


yi oe a 
qt oe - 
7 a : 
se 
i 
” 
a 2 
_ ’ - 
. 
i 
‘ - 
. | ~S 3 
ror piss a ae pee 
- ' ' . ; bela ome er i 
- } > Cure ; > cael Ai i= soiree ant a 7 . 
=p - sag ; - 7 ‘ 
ne in AP / joa ota ate RLS i a ae - a 
it) «* Se Ee os 


a4 | =. bn gokest A ate en pe ain de oie ab ee 


7 
a . ee ; 
ligt ty a enone = gre oe 
; - - 2 : : a «- Tb af nies en, : 7 4 ea 
7 A , - _ re p ’ 


Sinise 


= 


PEDIGREE OF THE 
ENGLISH LINE 


facing p. I 


ROBERT DE STUTEVILLEI = [?] Beatrix 
captured at Tinchebrai 1106 


ROBERT DE STUTEVILLE IL =Erneburga Emma= Robert de Grentemaisnil Graulfus William 
captured before Tinchebrai 1106 


fe ce ou Se a eee ——$—_—_— Se 


| 
dau.— Robert de Daiville 


NicHoLtas D’EsTouTEVILLE ROBERT DE STUTEVILLE III= Helewise William Roger John 
of Valmont Dive. 1110 | living 1147 Sheriff of of Warwickshire 
aw Oy) d. 1183 Northumberland 
dive: 1190 
A A 
(see §7) (see §2) 
| is 
Osmund Burga= William Pantulf 
of Weston Colville of Breedon-on-the-Hill 
x /\ 
(see $3) (see §2) 
eee. Oe alte 7. aE ee [ 
area = WILLIAM DE STUTEVILLE= ... ... =NICHOLAS DE STUTEVILLE= Gunnora Osmund Eustace = Robert Burga Helewise 
niece of king’s justice | - ee Liddel 1174 d’ Aubigny of Cowesby — of Brinklow [?] of Great m. William 
Ranulf de b. c.1140 oe PALL wid. Bt Coe O2 [?] living 1213 Ayton de Vescy 
Glanville d. 1203 Robert de Gant 
/\ /\ \ 
ec ae Ri Ee De ae See $4) (see §5) (see $1 
ROBERT DE STUTEVILLE [V nate DE STUTEVILLE V= Sibyl NICHOLAS DE STUTEVILLE II=  Dervorguilla Robert 
d. under age 1205 Carl bo de Valognes d. 1233 [?] sister of bee] 
Alan of Galloway A 
living 1241 (see §6) 
00 ee (2) 
EUSTACE DE STUTEVILLE= Nichola Hugh Wake =JoOAN DE STUTEVILLE= oe Bigod Margaret = William 
d. 1241 d. 1241 d. 1276 , 1266 d.s.p. 1235 de Mastac 
BALDWIN WAKE Roger Bigod 
Gales. 9| earl of Norfolk 


IN d.s.p. 1306 


CHAPTER I. 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 
<i~< LHE DESCENT -OF TH MAIN ENGLISH VINE 


ROBERT DE STUTEVILLE I is the earliest recorded member 
of the family of Stuteville or Estouteville,| which derived its 
name from Etoutteville-sur-Mer.2~ He witnessed a charter for 
the abbey of St-Evroul not later than 1089.2 In England he 
was granted the main portion of the lands in Yorkshire of which 
Hugh son of Baldric had been tenant-in-chief at the Domesday 
survey,’ together with a holding in Lincoln previously held by 
Hugh son of Baldric,> and probably also holdings in Stratfield 
Saye and Church Oakley, Hampshire, of which Hugh son of 
Baldric had been tenant-in-chief at the Survey. In the account 
of the settlement in 1201 of the claim by his great-grandson 
William de Stuteville against William de Mowbray,’ he is des- 
cribed as Robert Grundebeof. 

He was a benefactor of St. Mary’s abbey, York, making 
gifts of land or tithes in Moreby, par. Stillingfleet ; Ellenthorpe, 
par. Aldborough ; Harton, par. Bossall ; Coxwold ; Hovingham ; 
Kirkby Moorside ; Buttercrambe ; Scrayingham ; and Langton ; 
and, with Robert de Meinil, in Myton-upon-Swale.® He gave 
land in Hunsley, par. Rowley, to Durham priory ;? and to the 
church of Lincoln houses in the city. 

In 1105 ,he supported duke Robert in Normandy, being 
responsible for the duke’s troops and fortresses in the Pays de 
Caux." After his capture at the battle of Tinchebrai in 1106 he 
was condemned to imprisonment for life, and a large portion of 
his English lands was subsequently granted by Henry I to Nigel 
d’Aubigny, from whom they descended to Roger de Mowbray.!” 

1 Although the Latin forms Stutevilla, Stotevilla and Estotevilla are 
used indiscriminately, it is convenient for purposes of distinction to restrict 
the form Estouteville to the Norman line descended from Nicholas d’Estoute- 
ville, lord of Valmont (see §7 below). 

4 Dept. Seine-Iniérieure, arr. Yvetot, cant, Yerville. Although ‘so 
described it lies inland. There are earthworks in the ‘bois aux mottes’ 
which seem to be the site of the original family castle (L. C. Loyd, Anglo- 
Norman Families, Harleian Soc., p. 40). It is not known if Valmont, 
c. 13 miles to the n.w. also in arr. Yvetot, which later became the caput of 
the barony in Normandy, was held by Robert de Stuteville I, or how it 
was acquired, whether by marriage or otherwise. The account of the 
family in Pére Anselme, Histoive généalogique ... de France, viii, 88, gives 
Robert de Stuteville II as lord of Valmont, but without documentary evi- 
dence. 3 Ovdericus Vitalis, ed. Le Prévost, ii, 399. 

* For the details see Chapter II. > Charter dio. 2. 

® Subsequently held by the Norman line; see §7 below. 

7 Charters nos. 42-4. § Charter no: 1 and note. SEOLG. 

EO Charter mo. 2: 

11 Orderic, iv, 214 ; ‘vir fortis et potens’. 

12 Tbid., pp. 226, 231, 234 ; Chron. Mon. de Hyda in Lib. Mon. de Hyda, 
Rolls Ser., p. 307 ; Roger of Howden, Rolls Ser., i, 163 ; and iv, 117-8 (charter 
no. 42 below). 


2 STUTEVILLE.FEE 


Besides his son Robert. he had a daughter Emma who 
married Robert, eldest son of Hugh de Grentemaisnil, as the 
second of his three wives ; Robert de Grentemaisnil died 1 June 
1136, and he and Emma were buried in the chapter-house of the 
abbey of St-Evroul.1 In the Liber Vitae of Durham? there are 
commemorated Robert de Stuteuill’, Beatrix his wife, and Robert, 
Graulfus and William their sons. In view of his benefaction to 
Durham priory, it is likely that the entry refers to Robert de 
Stuteville I.2 If so, in addition to his eldest son he had two 
younger sons Graulfus and William by a wife Beatrix. 

Robert de Stuteville I was probably closely related to, and 
possibly the brother of Geoffrey de Stuteville, living towards the 
end of the eleventh century, who held interests in the Isle of 
Axholme and in Hampton-in-Arden, co. Warwick, and Melton 
Mowbray, co. Leicester, and was a benefactor of St. Mary’s abbey, 
York, and Lewes priory.* 


ROBERT DE STUTEVILLE II, son of Robert de Stuteville I.5 
He supported duke Robert against Henry I, and was captured at 
St-Pierre-sur-Dive shortly before the battle of Tinchebrai.6 The 
chronological details relating to his sons show that he must have 
lived for some years subsequently ; but it is unlikely that he ever 
possessed lands in England. He was evidently dead when his 
son Robert recovered part of the inheritance in Yorkshire.’ 

Documentary evidence is available to prove that Robert 
de Stuteville II had a wife named Erneburga, by whom he was 
the father of Robert de Stuteville III. There is no evidence, 
however, to prove her parentage. Dugdale in his Baronage® made 
no suggestion. Banks asserted that she was daughter and heir to 
Hugh son of Baldric whom he described erroneously as ‘a great 
saxon thane’.® This cannot be accepted. On the one hand the 
fact that Robert de Stuteville I held a large proportion of the 
Domesday tenures of Hugh son of Baldric disproves any sug- 
gestion that his son should have become possessed of them by 


! Orderic, ii, pp. 360, 455 and note. 

2 Surtees Soc., vol. 136, facsimile ed., f. 44, in a list following an entry 
dated 1127; vol. 13, p. 60. The entry and list are repeated on ff. 47, 47V 
(p. 68). A further entry commemorates a William de Estuteuile and Roger 
his brother (f. 47%, but only as Wiliam and Roger with no surname on 
f. 44V); and again a Gilbert Halsart and Joan de Stuteuilla on f. 23V (p. 19). 

3 It cannot refer to Robert de Stuteville II, whose son Robert was by 
his wife Erneburga (see below). 

4 See the references given in the note to charter no. 43. A suggestion 
was made by Farrer in V.C.H. Yorks., 11, 178, that Geoffrey de Stuteville 
may have been the Goisfrid, a tenant in 1086 of Hugh son of Baldric in 
Langton, E.R. Yorks. ; but there is no proof of any Stuteville connexion 
with Langton before it passed to Robert de Stuteville I (see above) with 
other holdings of Hugh. 

* Charter no. 10 gives documentary proof of the first three generations. 

® Orderic, iv, 223 ; ‘Rodbertus juvenis de Stotevilla.’ 

’ Charter no. 4; ’ Charter mio; “20. * Volsi, pc Goae: 

10 Dormant and Extinct Baronage (1807), i, 174. This parentage is 
given in Col. Parker’s pedigree in Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxi, 68. ~° For some 
notes on Hugh son of Baldric see Chapter II below. 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 3 


marriage with a daughter of Hugh; and on the other hand, 
although Hugh son of Baldric had a daughter who married Guy 
de Craon, the Craon family appear to have inherited none of 
Hugh’s. property except certain holdings in Lincolnshire and 
Hampshire, which were held by Guy of Hugh at the Domesday 
survey after his marriage had taken place,! thus suggesting that 
Hugh son of Baldric’s holdings did not pass by inheritance sub- 
sequently to 1086.? 

Another suggestion was made by Farrer that Erneburga 
was a daughter of Geoffrey Murdac and sister of Juliana who 
married Thurstan de Montfort ; but that again cannot be sup- 
ported.3 

© It will be suggested in the account of the Estoutevilles of 
Valmont in §7 that Nicholas d’Estouteville, the founder of the 
abbey of Valmont, was the eldest son of Robert de Stuteville IT, 
and that, although the latter may have had an earlier wife, 
there is no reason to assume that Nicholas was not his son by 
his wife Erneburga. 

In addition to this son Nicholas (if the above suggestion 
can be accepted) Robert de Stuteville II’s issue was as follows : 

(1) Robert de Stuteville Ill ; see below. 

(2) William de Stuteville. He occurs as brother of Robert 
de Stuteville [IIT] in a claim made by them in 1147 against Roger 
de Mowbray for land in the territory of Coxwold which Roger 
had given to Byland abbey ;* and he is probably the witness of 
that name to a charter of Roger de Mowbray to Newburgh priory, 
1145-c.1160.5 There is reason for supposing that he can be identi- 
fied with the William de Stuteville who with the consent of 
Emma his wife gave land in Murton to Rievaulx abbey.® 

(3) Roger de Stuteville. His place in the pedigree is proved 
by the witness clause in a charter of Henry II to the weavers of 
the city of York, issued at Pickering in 1163, which contains the 
names of Robert de Stuteville [III] and Roger his brother.? He 
was sheriff of Northumberland from Easter 1170 to Easter 1185.8 
He was castellan of Wark on Tweed at the time of the invasion 
of Northumberland in 1173 by the king of Scotland, with whom 
he made a truce, and whom in the following year he repulsed 
from Wark.® In May 1177 he was given the custody of the castle 

See Chapter IL. 

2 Hugh had another daughter married to a certain Walter, who was 
his tenant in a Wiltshire holding (D.B., i, 73). 

3 See Appendix A to the present Chapter. It is tempting to suppose 
that Erneburga may have been the heiress of Valmont; but there is not 
the slightest support for a guess of that kind. 

. * Mon. Ang., v, pp. 351-2. 

> Charter no. 165. © Charter no. 19 and note. 

1 EWC eho 340. 

8 Pipe Roll 16 Hen. II, p. 47; 31 Hen. II, p. 149 ; and the intervening 
rolls. 

9 Chron. Jordan Fantosme, Rolls Ser., pp. 244-9, 306-13. Fantosme 
writes of Roger in very favourable terms, both as a warrior and a supporter 


of Henry IL. See also Northumberland County History, xi, 47, for his defence 
of the castle. 


4 STUTEVILLE FEE 


of Edinburgh by Henry II,1 who granted him licence to have his 
hounds for hunting and taking the wolf and hare throughout all 
Yorkshire and all Northumberland.? 

He witnessed several charters of Henry II, including one at 
Woodstock, probably in July 1175 ;3 and others at Clarendon in 
1176 ;* at Westminster probably c. May 1176;> at Windsor 
probably in 1180 ;® at Silverston near Northampton probably in 
1180-81 ;7 at Northampton, 1181-82 ;® at Clipston, c. Feb. 1184-5 ;° 
and possibly at Cherbourg, 1185-88.1° He also witnessed a charter 
of William de Stuteville to Fountains abbey, 1175-85 ;4 a charter 
before the king’s justices at Doncaster in 1180 ;! as sheriff, a 
charter of the abbot and convent of Newminster, 1180-85 ;!° and 
one of William de Mandeville, earl of Essex, at Westminster in 
isi 

In 1183 the bishop of Winchester owed a norris hawk in 
Hampshire on behalf of Roger son of John de Neweton, the man 
of Roger de Stuteville, which he promised to the king for right 
of the land of Neweton. At Michaelmas 1185 Roger de Stuteville 
owed certain debts in Northumberland in respect of his office as 
sheriff, including 604. for the cornage of the county, on which 
he paid all but 4s., some of the debts being required in Suffolk ;16 
and at Michaelmas 1186 there is a reference to his having de- 
tained stock belonging to the honour of Wark.” He was still 
owing a debt at Michaelmas 1189, which he paid in the following 
year.18 He probably died shortly afterwards. 


Robert de Stuteville II also had issue : 

(4) John de Stuteville ; see the Stutevilles of Warwickshire 
in §2. 
and probably 

(5) Osmund de Stuteville ; see the Stutevilles of Weston 
Colville and Burton Agnes in §3. 


1 Gesta Henrici, Rolls Ser., i, 160. 

* Northumberland and Durham Deeds, Newcastle upon Tyne Rec. Ser., 
p. 71, from MS. Dodsworth cxxvi, f. 89 : date assigned c. 1175-81. 

+ FY Ct Ne. o0ce : 

* I[bid., ii, no. 774; and cf. i, no. 440. 

> Eyton, Itinerary, p. 203; witnessed by Robert, Roger and William 
de Stuteville. 

® Delisle et Berger, Rec. des Actes de Henri II, ii, 210. 

t BY C., 1, no 420: 


® Delisle et Berger, ii, 219: ? Eyton. p. 268, 
1° Delisle et Berger, ii, 297, noting the unusual form Roger d’ Fstouteville. 
POY 5 tO. 004, 12 Tbid., no. 610. 


13 Early Newcastle Deeds, Surtees Soc., p. 44. 

WE Bi VG AO: Oh. 

‘> Pipe Roll 29 Hen. II, p. 146. The debt is entered on the Northumber- 
land roll in 1184, being required in Hampshire (ibid. 30 Hen. II, pp. 51, 
84); and was:still due in the latter county in 1187 (bid. 33 Hen. IT, p. 197). 
The place has not been identified. 

16 Ibid. 31 Hen. II, p. 153; the 4s. was paid by Mich. 1187 (ibid. 33 
Hen. II, p. 183). In 1187 one of his debts was due in Yorkshire, payment 
being completed there in the following year (ibid., p. 83 ; 34 Hen. IT, p. 84). 

17 Ibid. 32 Hen. II, p. 204. . 

28 Toi. Atte. 1) pp. 440); QR, Pp. 52. 


THE SPUTEVITLE PAMILIES © 


He also had a daughter who married Robert de Daiville as 
his first wife ;} and probably a daughter Burga, who married 
William Pantulf.? 


ROBERT DE STUTEVILLE III, son of Robert de Stuteville II 
by his wife Erneburga.? It is probable that his birth can be 
placed as c. 1110. In 1138 he was among the northern magnates 
at York who supported archbishop Thurstan against the ravages 
of the Scots.*. In the reign of Stephen he was in possession of 
Cottingham, which had evidently been restored to him as one 
of the tenures of his grandfather Robert de Stuteville I ;> and in 
an account of the miracles of St. John of Beverley wrought in the 
same reign he is described as ‘vir strenuus et militari virtute 
probatissimus’, imprisoning at Cottingham a certain clerk, the 
son of a citizen of Lincoln, threatening him with torture until his 
parents ransomed him, but an escape was successfully made with 
the saint’s assistance ; and a similar story concerns another clerk 
imprisoned in the castle there.6 Probably in the period 1138-41 
he issued a penny at the mint of York.’ 

He witnessed a writ of king Stephen at Lincoln, probably 
in 1141 ;§ and charters of archbishop William, 1144-46,9 of arch- 
bishop Henry, 1150-53,!° and of William count of Aumale, 1150-53." 
As early as 1147 he and his brother William had started the 
disputes with Roger de Mowbray with regard to the tenures 
of Kobert de Stuteville I which Henry I had given te Nigel 
d’Aubigny ; and they were then claiming the land in the territory 
of Coxwold which Roger had given to Byland abbey.” 

_ Early in the reign of Henry IT’8 a compromise was made by 
which he was granted by Roger de Mowbray 10 knights’ fees, 
which included the extensive manor of Kirkby Moorside and its 
appurtenances and land in Warwickshire ;* and in Roger de 
Mowbray’s carta of 1166 8 knights’ fees of the old feoffment and 
one fee of the new were held of him by Robert de Stuteville.™ 

i Charter no: 17. 
2 See the Warwickshire branch in §2. 
> Charter no? 10: 
4 Richard of Hexham in Chron. Stephen, Rolls Ser., iii, 160. 
> Cf. the phrase ‘postquam recuperavi hereditatem meam in Anglia’ 
in charter no. 4. It is probable that he recovered the manor of Buttercrambe 
and its appurtenances and also Langton (E.R.) at the same time ; for the 
latter see Chapter IV, §11. | 
6 Hist. Ch. York, Rolls Ser., i, 302-6 ; it is supposed that the account 
was compiled c. 1170-80 (bid. p. Iv). 
7G. C. Brooke, Cat. of English Coins in B.M., Norman Kings, i, 
p. cxvi and plate lx, nos. 12, 13; and English Coins, 3rd ed., p. 94 and 
plate xxi, no. 4. The penny has an equestrian type on the obverse. 
8 Reg. Antiquissimum, Lincoln Rec. Soc., i, 62. 
2 BAY, 4, Mo. 10d: 
ONO. tl, NO. LOS. 
tae td, iit NOx LIS 
12 Mon. Ang., v, 351-2. 
13 See charter no. 42. Jt is possible, as suggested in the note to no. 19, 
that the date was earlier than 1158 ; cf. also the note to no. 62 on this point. 
P* See Chapter IT. 
13 Red Bk. Exch., pp. 419-20. 


6 STUTEVILLE FEE 


The evidence relating to the priory of Keldholme suggests that he 
founded that house shortly after he obtained Kirkby Moorside." 

In 1166 Robert de Stuteville III, as a tenant-in-chief, made 
a return of 8 knights’ fees of the old feoffment, and an eighth of 
a knight’s fee of the new ;? and in 1168 he paid 106s. 8d. for the 
aid for the marriage of the king’s daughter, owing 20d. for a new 
feoffment,? these sums precisely corresponding with the amounts 
of his holdings on the basis of a mark per knight’s fee. Again 
in 1172 his assessment for the scutage of Ireland was 8. with 
2s. 6d. for a new feoffment, payments which were completed by 
1176.4 He was given land in Cold Kirby by king Henry II ;° 
and he purchased land in Ingleby Greenhow, a member of the 
Balliol fee.® 

In 1168 he was a supervisor of the works of Bamburgh 
castle.?, Reference is made in 1170 to pleas heard before him and 
Hugh de Moreville in Cumberland and Northumberland.’ He 
was sheriff of Yorkshire from Easter 1170 to Michaelmas 1175.° 
In 1173, with his sons and brothers, he supported the king in the 
rebellion. In the following year he had the custody of the castles 
of Brough and Appleby when they were invaded and taken by 
William the Lion, king of Scotland; and he was one of the leaders 
of the Yorkshire army when William was captured at Alnwick." 
In March 1176-7 he was one of those styled barons of England 
who witnessed the Spanish award made by Henry II.” 

He witnessed charters of Henry II to the burgesses of 
Scarborough at York, 1155-63 ; to the weavers of York at 
Pickering in 1163 ;4 to Rievaulx abbey at Winchester, 1164-70 ;% 
to the church of Carlisle at Nottingham, 1173-83 ;1® to Wardon 
abbey at Woodstock, not earlier than 1173; to William de 
Stuteville (his eldest son) in 1175 ;38 to Lenton priory at Nottingham 
in 1176;!® in favour of Bardney abbey at Windsor in the same 
year ;° to the lepers at Jerusalem at Clipston, 1178-84 ;?! and to 
Whitby abbey at Winchester, 1179-80.22 It is probable that the 

? Note to charter no. 12. 

4 Charter no. 67. ; 

> Pipe Roll 14 Hen. II, p. 88. He paid the balance in the following 
year (ibid. 15 Hen. IT, p. 35). 

* [bid AS Hem Tl, p. Gl 5 22 ends, p. 103. 

° Plac. de Quo Waranto, p. 192b. He enfeoffed Richard Cruer there ; 
see Chapter IV, §5. 

© See note to charter no. 13. 

7 Pipe Roll 14 Hen. II, pp. 169, 173. 

8 [bid. 16 Hen. II, pp. 33, 52. 

° ‘Ibid., pp. 35-6 ; 21 Hen. IJ, p. 164; and the intervening rolls. 

10 Gesta Henrici, Rolls Ser., i, 51n. 
i! Ibid., pp. 65-7. 
12 Ibid., p. 194. 


1 PTY 60.44 45, MOS GOA, '* Tbid., ne. 349. i? Jot... Wl, HO. 969. 
1° Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1300-26, p. 82. 
17 Ibid., 1257-1300, p..335. 18 BOY 2C.; Wr nOo0s. 


‘° Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1300-26, p. 316. 

°° Lincs. Final Concords, Lincoln Rec. Soe., ii, introd. p. xl. 
al EY 3G... ie oe. A460): 

22 Jbid., ii, no. 835. 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 7 


Robert de Stuteville who witnessed numerous charters of Henry II 
in Normandy was the lord of Valmont.! 

He also witnessed a charter of William count of Aumale, 
1165-79 ;? as sheriff, charters of Clement abbot of St. Mary’s, 
York, and Geoffrey de Lascelles to Rievaulx abbey, 1170-75 ;3 
and a charter of his own son William, 1173-85.4 

His benefactions to the abbeys of St. Mary’s, York, Byland, 
Rievaulx and Meaux, and the priories of Durham and Keldholme, 
are’ recorded in charters which are printed in Chapter ITI. It is 
stated in the Rotuls de Dominabus that the daughters of Matthew 
de Neville had been in the custody of Hugh de Creissi for a year 
ending at Christmas [1184], and for the preceding eight years in 
that of Robert de Stuteville ; and the deduction can be made 
that Robert died in 1183.5 

Robert de Stuteville III’s wife was named Helewise,® whose 
parentage is not known. As ‘domina Helewis uxor Roberti de 
Stuteuilla’ with Osmund ‘filius ejus’ she witnessed a charter of 
William de Vescy to the brethren on Farne Island, the first 
witness being Philip de Valognes.? 


Robert de Stuteville III had issue : 

(1) William de Stuteville ; see below. 

(2) Nicholas de Stuteville I; see below. 

(3) Osmund de Stuteville ; see the Stutevilles of Cowesby 
and Gressenhall in $4. 

(4) Eustace de Stuteville, who witnessed with his father as 
‘sheriff and his brother Nicholas a charter of Geoffrey de Lascelles 
to Rievaulx abbey.® He is probably the Eustace who with Robert 
his brother witnessed a charter of William de Stuteville to Keld- 
holme priory, 1190-1201. The details given below under Nicholas 
de Stuteville II] show that he held the manor of Brinklow, co. 
Warwick ; and that he had a son Robert, born and brought up 
overseas, to whom Nicholas de Stuteville II was ordered to 
restore land, apparently in Yorkshire, in 1233. It is likely that 
he was the Eustace against whom Thurstan de Montfort brought 
a claim in 1208 (see Appendix A), and who is mentioned in a 
record of 1213 relating to his tenure among other knights holding 
of the honour of Leicester in Warwickshire.4 

1 See §7 below ; for a possible exception (in Britanny) see p. lIn. 

2 Tbid., iii, no. 1400. 2 lbid., V, HO. 1375 1%, NO. 7 ZS. 

4 ibid: & Nov ols. > See Round’s note im Pipe Roll Soc:-ed., p. 2. 

6 Charters nos. 10, 15, 89, the latter showing that he married her not 
later than 1145 ; and charter no. 4 suggests a few years earlier. 

7 Raine, North Durham, app. p. 122; the date is not later than Mich. 
1183, when William de Vescy was dead (Pipe Roll 29 Hen. II, p. 140). 

o 8 EAC. i, On 728. 

9 Charter no. 26. Eustace and Robert are both given as sons of 
Robert de Stuteville III in Chyon. de Melsa, i, 99, where, however, it is 
stated that both they and their brother William died s.p. 

10 For this holding, assigned to William de Stuteville by William 
de Mowbray in 1201, see charter no. 44. It can be deduced that Eustace 
was enfeoffed of it subsequently. 

11 Rot. de Fin., p. 504. Brinklow was a member of the honour of 
Leicester (note to charter no. 44). 


8 STUTEVILEE. FEE 


(5) Robert de Stuteville ; see the Stutevilles of Great Ayton 
and Hemlington in §5. 


Robert de Stuteville III also had two daughters : 

(1) Burga, who married William de Vescy and had Langton 
as her marriage portion ; see Chapter IV, §11, where it is noted 
that she was living as a widow in 1185, her son Eustace de Vescy 
having been born between 1169 and 1171.1 

(2) Helewise:” . She married, first, William de Lancaster II, 
lord of Kendal,? by whom she had a daughter Helewise ; king 
Henry II gave this daughter in marriage to Gilbert son of Roger 
son of Reinfred, by whom she was the mother of William de 
Lancaster III, lord of Kendal.4 William de Lancaster IT died in 
1184 ;5 and Helewise his widow married, secondly, Hugh de 
Moreville, lord of the barony of Burgh, Cumberland, son of Simon 
de Moreville and his wife Ada Engaine ;* by him she had two 
daughters, Ada who married Richard de Lucy, lord of Egremont, 
and Joan who married Richard Gernun, nephew of William 
Briwere.? Hugh de Moreville died in 1202, when William Briwere 
gave 500 marks for the wardship and marriage of the younger 
daughter and her inheritance which Hugh had held at his death.® 
In 1204 an agreement was made between William Briwere and 
Helewise de Stuteville for her dower from Hugh de Moreville’s 
lands, by which William quitclaimed to her the manors of Kirk- 
oswald, near Penrith, and Lazonby and she quitclaimed the manor 
of Isell (Hisale).® At Michaelmas 1202 Helewise de Stuteville 
accounted for 60 marks not to be constrained to be married, and 
should she wish to marry that should be by the counsel of the 
king or the chief justice, and for having her right of dower.!© She 
married, thirdly, Wiliam son of Ranulf, lord of Greystoke ; and 


1 These details show that she could not have been the daughter of 
Robert de Stuteville II, as given in the pedigree in Yorks. Arch. Journal, 
xxi, 68. Moreover, in the Vescy pedigree in the Malton Chartulary (Mon. 
Ang., vi, 972) Burga is given as the sister of William [de] Stuteville. 

2 Although there seems to be no documentary proof of her parentage, 
no great doubt need be entertained. Dodsworth stated that the name of 
her father was Robert de Stuteville (Farrer, Lancs. Pipe Rolls and Early 
Charters, p. 124”); and the name of Robert de Stuteville III’s wife is 
significant. She must, however, have been considerably younger than 
Robert’s eldest son. 

3 William de Lancaster issued a charter for the hospital of Cockersand 
at the petition of Helewise his wife (Mon. Ang., vi, 909). 

4 Farrer, Lancs. Pipe Rolls and Early Charters, pp. 395-6 ; and V.C.H. 
Lanes., i, 361. 

5 Chron. Rob. de Torigni, Rolls Ser., p. 309. 

6 Wetherhal Reg., Cumb. and West. Ant. and Arch. Soc., p. 188x. 

7 Complete Peerage, new ed., vii, 248. 

8 Rot. de Obl., p. 184. 

9 Yorks. Assize Rolls, Y.R.S., p. 6, where the identification of Hisale 
as Hessle should be amended. In 1203 Briwere had been a plaintiff against 
Helewise for the manor of Kirkoswald (Curia Regis Rolls, ii, 263). In 1220 
Helewise was engaged in a plea relating to the advowson of the church of 
that place (zbid., viii, 370). 

10 Pipe Roll 4 John, p. 257, Cumberland roll ; the balance of 40 marks 
was paid in the following year (zbid. 5 John, p. 255). 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 9 


from Thomas her son descended the later lords of Greystoke.! 
William son of Ranulf died in 1209, when Robert de Vipont owed 
500 marks and 5 palfreys for the custody of his land and heirs, 
and for the marriage of Helewise de Stuteville, his widow.? 

In 1218-19 Helewise de Stuteville was successftl in her 
claim that Robert de Ros had disseised her of common of pasture 
in Bielby [E.R., wap. Harthill]. In 1219 she held land in Harthill 
wapentake, worth 16. yearly.4 This probably represented her 
dower from her third husband’s land, Bielby forming a part of 
it.» In the same year, being in the king’s gift and unmarried, 
reference being made to her fine with king John for her marriage, 
she held land in Cumberland worth 30/7. yearly ;° and in the 
returns for co. Lancaster in 1226-28 she held land in the wapen- 
take of Lonsdale worth 100s. and in that of Amounderness worth 
10s.’ 


WILLIAM DE STUTEVILLE, eldest son and heir. The date 
of his birth was probably c. 1140. 

At Easter 1173 he was granted the custody of the manors 
of Knaresborough and Aldborough, and by a charter of Henry IT, 
probably issued in July 1175, these two manors were granted to 
him and his heirs to hold by the service of 3 knights. In 1174 
he had the custody of Topcliffe castle,? and in the same year, 
with his father, was among the leaders of the Yorkshire army 


1 See the Rev. James Wilson’s account of the Greystokes in Ancestor, 
Viepp: 120-6.and cf, di. Y:C.,-u, p. 007. 
: 4 Pipe Roll \1efohn, p. 96. 

dolls of the fresitces’.-.... -Yorks.; Selden Soc...no. 425: 

* BR. of Fees, p. 247. 

5 E.Y.C., i, p. 509. In 1226-27 she gave 5 marks for making bounds 
with the abbot of St. Mary’s for her land in ‘Herletona’ and his in 
Cottingwith [E.R.} which ought to be made by the assent of Thomas son 
of William {her son], her warrantor of her dower (Byracton’s Note Book, 
no. 1871); the place is Ellerton just to the south of the Cottingwiths, and 
not Harlington, as indexed ; the Greystokes had an interest in Ellerton 
(Feudal Aids, vi, 49); and a final concord relating to these bounds between 
Cottingwith and Ellerton, Feb. 1226-7, was made in her presence (Yorks. 
Fines, 1218-31, p. 108). 

6 Br. of Fees, p. 266 ; evidently her dower from her second husband’s 
land. 

7 Ibid., p. 366 ; presumably her dower from her first husband’s land. 
There is a reference to a payment made by Hugh de Moreville in respect 
of this at Mich. 1200; it included land in Garstang (Pipe Roll 2 John, 
p. 239, and Farrer’s notes in Lancs. Pipe Rolls, p. 124). 

8 E.Y.C., i, no. 508, where there is a detailed account of William’s 
connexion with these manors. A facsimile of the king’s charter is given 
m. Warner and Ellis, B:M. Facsimiles, plate xxxvi. Aiter Richard I's 
accession William had to pay a fine of 2000. for Knaresborough, which 
he paid off by Michaelmas 1194 (Pipe Roll 2 Ric. I, p. 68; 6 Ric. I, p. 151); 
and the two manors were confirmed to him by John on 22 April 1200 (Rot. 
Chart., p. 54b). They were included in the confirmation to his son Robert 
in 1203 (charter no. 45 below); but on the latter’s death the Stuteville 
connexion with them came to an end (p. 14 below). Some charters illust- 
rating William de Stuteville’s tenure of places within the two manors are 
pd. in E.Y.C., i, nos. 504-6, 509-10, 513, 515-17, 521 ; and for Little Cattal 
and Kirkby Ouseburn see nos. 30-3 below. 

9 Howden, Rolls Ser., ii, 58. 


10 STUTEVILLE FEE 


against the Scots.1 In 1176, also with his father, he was one of 
those styled king’s barons who were present at York when a 
final concord was made before the justices ;? and in the following 
year he was given the custody of Roxburgh castle.? The evidence 
of the Pipe Rolls shows that he was sheriff of Northumberland in 
1190 and again in 1199 to 1200; of Lincolnshire for a short period 
in 1191 ;4 of Yorkshire from 1200 to 1202 ;> and of Cumberland 
and Westmorland from 1199 to 1203. In 1193 as a supporter of 
John count of Mortain he refused to support the archbishop of 
York’s proposal to besiege Tickhill ;° and after John’s coronation 
in 1199 he was given the custody of the counties of Northumber- 
land and Cumberland with their castles.7. In Jan. 1200-1 the 
king visited him at Cottingham.® In the period 1199 to 1201 he 
was granted markets and fairs at Cottingham and Buttercrambe, 
a licence to enclose and fortify his houses there, and a confirma-_ 
tion and grant of various lands including Bramham and Bardsey.® 
On 21 Jan. 1200-1 a settlement was made in the king’s presence 
of the long-standing disputes with the Mowbray family.?° 


There are several references to William de Stuteville’s 
activities as a king’s justice. In this capacity he was at York on 
9 Oct. 1188 ;@ at Carlisle on 17 and 24 June 1190; at Lincoln 
on 6. Oct. 1191-** at York on 1) July and 19. Ane MZ 
Lincoln on 20 Sept. 1194 ;!° and in Nov. of that year one of the 
justices itinerant in Lincolnshire and Warwickshire.4® In the 
summer of the same year he had been one of the justices sent to 
York to hear complaints made by the canons of York against 
the archbishop ; and the actions then taken resulted in his ex- 
communication by the latter.” 


1 Gesta Henrici, Rolls Ser., i, 65. 

2 Yorks. Deeds, ii, p. vi (no. 147a). 

3 Howden, ii, 133. 

4 Pipe Roll 3 Ric. I, p. 1. Cf. Howden, ini, 134; and Gesta Henrict, 
i, 207, 

5 Charter no. 38, including the custody of the castles of York and 
Pickering. 

6 Howden, iii, 206. Dots ay oa 3 Lbvd.; p.. VSG. 

9 Charters nos. 35-7, 39, 40. 

10 Charter no. 42 ; and nos. 43-4 for further details. 

11 Fountains Chartulary, ii, 490. A case relating to Guisborough priory 
was heard before the same justices (£.Y.C., ii, no. 701). 

12 Holm Culivam Reg., Cumb. and West. Ant. and Arch. Soc., p. 28. 

13 Lincs. Final Concords, Lincoln Rec. Soc., ii, 313. 

14 EB.Y.C., it, no. 1205 ; Kirkstall Coucher, no. 7; cf. also Bridlington 
Chartulary, p. 137 and E.Y.C., iv, no. 98. The iter included Cumberland 
(Ptpe Roll 5 Ric. £, introd., p. xxiv). 

15 Lincs. Final Concords, 11, 342. 

Vo Rot. Cur. Regis, 1, 90-1. 

17 Rolls of King’s Court, Pipe Roll Soc. vol. xiv, p. 50, and introd., 
pp. Xvii-xvili ; Howden, iv, introd., p. lxi. William had also supported the 
men of Beverley against the archbishop (Curia Regis Rolls, i, 385). The 
sentence of excommunication was annulled at king John’s intervention on 
4 March 1200-1 (Howden, iv, 158). Lf he was the William de Stuteville who 
at Mich. 1194 had acquittance of scutage as being in the army of Normandy 
(Pipe feoll 6 Ric. I, p. 119), he must have returned for his judicial work 
before the summer. 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES a 


His name frequently occurs as a witness to royal charters. 
These include charters issued by Henry II? at Wexford in March 
1172 ;? at Ludgershall, 1174-76 ;3 at Westminster, 1174-81 ;* at 
Woodstock, 1174-83 ;°> at Clarendon, 1175-76 ;®§ at Northampton, 
1178-79 ;? at Silverston, 1180-81 ;§ and at Clipston c. 1185.° He 
witnessed charters of Richard I in Dec. 1189 at Canterbury, and 
in April 1194 at Winchester ; and a large number of John’s 
charters in the early years of his reign. In a reterence to his 
assessment of 16 marks for scutage in 1199 (at 2 marks per fee) 
Roger de Topcliffe is named as his steward.¥ 


There is conclusive evidence that William de Stuteville 
married Berta, a niece of Ranulf de Glanville. In 1205 or 1206 
Ranulf son of Robert gave 200 marks for having a third of 
William de Stuteville’s land in Bramham (braham)'4 and Leyburn 
(Leburn’),® which William took in marriage with Berta his wife 
who died without an heir, which third fell to Ranulf by hereditary 
right ; and, among other things, for having two writs, one against 
Thomas de Arden’ and the other against Hugh de Auberville for 
the reasonable share which fell to him of the free tenement of 
Ranulf de Glanville.16 Also Thomas de Arden’ gave 60 marks 
and a palfrey for having his reasonable share of the land which 
Ranulf de Glanville gave in marriage to Wiliam de Stuteville 
with Berta his niece, of which Thomas ought to have a third.?!” 
In the accounts of Brian de Insula and others for the issues of 
William de Stuteville’s lands following the death of Hubert 
-archbishop of Canterbury (13 July 1205) sums were recorded for 
the issues of Bramham and Leyburn (Letbrunn’) before two 
thirds were to be given to Ranulf son of Robert and Thomas de 


1 Possibly he was the William de Stuteville who witnessed two during 
the king’s campaign in Britanny in 1168, the next witness after Robert 
de Stuteville, either his father or Robert of the Norman line (Delisle et Berger, 
Rec. des Actes de Henv II, i, 420-1), and charters at Chinon ante 1173 
(tbid., pp. 541, 576). 

2 Round, Commune of London, p. 152. 

3 Delisle et Berger, ii, 52. * Thid.. p. 140, 

> Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1257-1300, p. 335. 

& BY :O2. i No: 4405 im, nor 774. 

7 Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1327-41, p. 77. OE sO, Ne tO, 40) 

9 Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1257-1300, p. 391. 

LG Tiimerary of Richard J, Pipe Koll Soc., pp. 19, 21. 

Pi (bid.; p. 89: 12 Rot. Chart., passim. 

13 Memoranda Roll 1 John, p. 61; cf. Pipe Roll 1 John, p. 54. 

14 Although there is a place called Braham in Spofforth, the evidence 
of several other references (e.g. charter no. 36) leaves no doubt of the 
identification as Bramham. 

15 A large part of Leyburn, a member of the honour of Richmond, was 
held by the descendants of Wimar the steward (E£.Y.C., v, pp. 18-25). 
For the portion which fell to Ranulf son of Robert see V.C.H. Yorks. N.R., 
i, 274. It is only a coincidence that in 1208 Hugh de Auberville gave a 
palfrey in Kent for the restoration of a carucate in Leibroun’, taken into 
the king’s hand after the archbishop’s death, Brian de Insula being ordered 
to give him seisin (Rot. de Fin., p. 441; Pipe Roll 10 John, p. 100, Kent 
roll); there being a Leybourne in Kent. 

16 Rot. de Fin., p. 337; the first instalment to be paid at Easter 1206. 

17 Ibid., p. 348; Pipe Roll 8 John, p. 219. 


ie STUTEVILLE FEE 


Ardenn’.! At Michaelmas 1207 in the accounts for Knaresborough 
it is recorded that Ranulf son of Robert and Thomas de Ardenn’ 
had completed their payments, and that a sum was received 
from the share? of Hugh de Alberville in Bramham and Leyburn 
(Letbrunn’).2 The three men mentioned were the representatives 
of the three daughters and heirs of Ranulf de Glanville, the first 
being Ranulf son of Robert son of Ralph, lord of Middleham, 
whose father Robert married Helewise, one of Ranulf de Glan- 
ville’s daughters.* 

The statement that Berta died without an heir makes it 
unlikely that she was the mother of Robert, William de Stuteville’s 
son and heir; for, as there is no mention of a widow surviving 
William or of any arrangements for a widow’s dower, she could 
not have survived William ; and she therefore died earlier than | 
Robert. The latest possible date for William’s marriage to Berta 
is 1190, when Ranulf de Glanville died ; and the earliest date for 
Robert’s birth is 1185, as he was under age in 1205. It is possible 
therefore that Berta was William de Stuteville’s first wife, any 
issue by her which would have enabled him to retain lands given 
in frank-marriage having died young, and that he had a second 
wife whose name is not recorded.® In addition to his son Robert 
he had a bastard daughter.® 


William de Stuteville died shortly before 4 June 1203." In 
one of his charters to Fountains abbey he gave his body for 
burial ;8 and it is stated that he was buried in the chapter-house 
there.” At Michaelmas 1203 Eaurence the clerk and) Benedict 
de Sculecotes accounted in great detail for the issues of his lands 
for half the year. [he first items'‘reter to stock and corm sold, 
the former bringing in 456i.,4° and the latter from seventeen 
places in Yorkshire 36312. 8s. 1l4d.; the proceeds of farms of 


1 Pipe Roll 7 John; p. 39: 

2 parco as pd.; but rightly parte as in Pipe Roll 10 John, p. 90. 

> Toid. 9 John, p. 126: 

* E.Y.C., v, pp. 302-3. For land held in Bramham by the Arderne 
family through the marriage of Ralph de Arderne to Amabel, another of 
the Glanville daughters see zbid., ii, p. 349; and the Arderne interest is 
shown in a fine of 1226 (Yorks. Fines, 1218-31, p. 66). 

> She was not Emma widow of William Malebisse ; see charter no. 19 
and note thereto. 

© ot. Claus., 1, 119a. 

7 Probably in the spring. At Mich. 1203 he accounted as sheriff of 
Cumberland for the first half of the financial year and his successor for the 
second half (Pipe Roll 5 John, p. 253). 

* Charter ilo. 33. 

° Chron. de Lanercost, Bannatyne Club, p. 26, in a reference relating to 
his persecution of St. Robert of Knaresborough. It is stated in Chron. 
de Melsa, 1, 99, that William was buried at Meaux, but the account of the 
family is far from accurate, e.g. the statement that William died without 
issue. 

10 Numbers of stock are given in detail ; cows work out to about 6s. 
each and pigs at ls. ; sheep and lambs of which there were over 3500 sold at 
between 1s. 8d. and is. . 

11 The largest sums were from Knaresborough, c. 904; Bramham, 
c. 44h. ; Buttercrambe, c. 23/4. ; Cottingham, c. 103i. 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 13 


nineteen places! amounted to 242/1. 13s. l4d., and tallages, etc. 
to 184/12. 2s. 4d. The total given for the receipts is 1248/2. 1s. 3d.,? 
of which 996/17. 10s. 11d. was paid in. Expenses of various kinds? 
amounted to 144. 7s. Okd.; and the balance owing was 1234/1. 
4s. 64d.4 At Michaelmas 1205 there is a list of William’s debts 
to the crown in Yorkshire, amounting to nearly 2300/1.° 


ROBERT DE STUTEVILLE IV, son and heir. He occurs with 
his father, other witnesses being the rector and constable and all 
the halimote of Knaresborough, as a witness to a charter relating 
to Ripley ;* and also with his father as a witness to a charter 
relating to Castley.?, On 9 July 1203 king John, then at Rouen, 
confirmed to him all his father’s lands, including Knaresborough 
and Boroughbridge and the forest of Westmorland, and also the 
wardships and farms held by his father ;§ and on the same day 
he granted his wardship and marriage to archbishop Hubert for 
4000 marks, to whom on 4 June he had granted the custody of all 
the lands and castles held by William de Stuteville at his death.® 
Robert de Stuteville died before 5 Aug. 1205, apparently still a 
minor.?° 


NICHOLAS DE STUTEVILLE I, second. son of -Kobert de 
Stuteville III.4 In 1174 he was in possession of Liddel, Cumber- 
land, when the castle was captured by William the Lion ;¥ and 
this appears to be the earliest reference for the possession of 
Liddel by a member of the Stuteville family.” By the death of 
Robert son of his elder brother William he became the latter’s 
‘heir. In 1205, not later than 5 August, he made a fine of 10,000 
marks for having his inheritance of all the lands held by William 
de Stuteville his brother, and of the pledges held by William at 
his death and by the late archbishop of Canterbury, with the 
exception of the castle of Knaresborough and Boroughbridge, 


1 Two places Stuteuileton’ and Disciton’ are included. Both appear to 
be in Northumberland ; e.g. Pipe Roll 10 John, p. 54, where in the index 
the latter is identified as Dissington ; but no identification can be suggested 
for the former. 

2 The details add up to about 2/1. short of this. 

3 The small sum of 50s. is given for the expenses of William’s burial. 
An item of 6. for the expenses of Robert de Stuteville in Normandy 
probably refers to a journey made by William’s son to the king at Rouen 
in July. * Again there is a small discrepancy. 

° Pipe Roll 7 John, p. 42. It includes 1400 marks for confirmation of 
charters (see note to no. 41). The sum of 2100 marks is mentioned as a 
debt in the king’s charter to Nicholas de Stuteville (charter no. 48). 

° Lancaster, Ripley and the Ingilby family, p. 33 ; Fountains Chartulary, 
li, 608. 

’ E.Y.C., i, no. 1869 ; f’ezus is presumably filius ejus. 

_ §& Charters nos. 45-6. ° Charter no. 47 and note. 

10 The date by which his uncle Nicholas made his fine. The archbishop 
had the custody until his own death on 13 July 1205. 

11 It is likely that he was the Nicholas de Stuteville who is mentioned 
as having given alms at Bamburgh to the subject of one of the miracles 
ascribed to the agency of St. Cuthbert (Sir Edmund Craster, ‘The Miracles 
of Farne’, in Avch. Aeliana, 4th ser., xxix, 100); for his father’s association 
with Bamburgh see p. 6 above. 

12 Gesta Henrici, Rolls Ser., i, 65. me TSee.Chapver LV, S19. 


14 STUTEVILLE FEE 


kept in the king’s hand until the 10,000 marks should be paid ; 
the fine to include 2100 marks owed by William to the king.? 
The fine was never paid,? and Knaresborough and Boroughbridge 
passed from the Stuteville family.® 

The tenure of the Stuteville inheritance in chief which 
passed to Nicholas is shown by his holding of Cottingham for 6 
fees in 1210-12,4 and of land in Kettleby Thorpe and Bigby, co. 
Lincoln,®> which constituted part of one of the knights’ fees held 
of Robert de Stuteville III in 1166. He also inherited the sub- 
ordinate tenure of the honour of Mowbray which had been granted 
to his father.* In 1206 a plea of common of pasture which he had 
against the abbot of St. Mary’s, York, was respited as long as 
his knights were in the king’s service overseas.’ 


With regard to the lands in Cumberland held by Nicholas, 
of which the caput was Liddel, in 1177 a king’s writ was directed 
to him for a pardon of 10 marks in respect of pleas held in that 
county ;8 and in 1201 he paid 100s. for his land held by cornage 
for the fine of the knights not crossing overseas ; his land held 
by cornage rendering 56s. yearly in 1212. In 1200 he was engaged 
in a plea for a carucate of land in ‘Cresop’ or ‘Gersope’ [Kershope, 
n.e. of Liddel] against Amabel daughter of William de Cardoil, 
also known as Amabel daughter of William ‘medicus’, another 
plaintiff in the following year being Bartholomew de Stuteville, 
the question being raised as to whether Nicholas or Bartholomew 
had: been ;seised.1! On 1 Dec. 1208, after an assize of mort 
d’ancestor, William son of Lambert recognized that 2 carucates in 
Arthuret were the right of Nicholas de Stuteville, on whose behalf 
Robert de Stuteville [his son} acted.” On 25 March 1216 the 
sheriff of Carlisle was ordered to give William de Ireby seisin of the 
land which had belonged to Nicholas de Stuteville in the vale of 
Liddel.18 It is said that Nichol forest, which formed the northern 


1 Rot. de Fin., p. 305 ; Rot. Claus., i, 45b; and see charter no. 48 below. 

2 He paid 20s. by Mich. 1205 ; but nothing in the following year (Pipe 
Roll 7. fohn, p. 59°;.8 John, p. 202). 

3 E.Y.C., 1, p. 392, giving details of their tenure im the king’s hand, 
and of their grant to Hubert de Burgh in 1229 with the outstanding debt 
of 10,000 marks from the heirs of William de Stuteville. 

+ Red Bk. Exch., p. 490; and see the claim made against him by 
Thurstan de Montfort in 1208 (Appendix A below). 

s-see Chapter LV .s7- 

6 Shown by charter no. 51. 7 Curia Regis Rolls, iv, 158. 

8 Pipe Roll 23 Hen II, p. 121. 9 Ibid. 3 John, p. 255. 

10 BR. of Fees, p. 198; ‘de ij villis in dominico et iij in homagiis’ added 
in Red. Bk. Exch., p. 493. 

11 Curia Regis Rolls, i, pp. 259, 340, 347, 356, 395,.423 ; and cf. iii, 28 
for her counter-claim against Bartholomew in 1203. Bartholomew’s place 
in the pedigree has not been determined ; see Appendix B. 

12 Cumberland Fines, Rec. Comm., p. 13. On the same day he received 
a quitclaim of half a carucate in Fademor, which he then gave to Nicholas 
his son (2bid.); although this is a Cumberland fine the place is clearly 
Fadmoor in Kirkby Moorside. 

i3 Rot. Claus., 1, 256a. On 18 Dec. 1217 the sheriff of Cumberland was 
ordered to take into the kg’s hand the castle and vill of Liddel (ibid., 
p. 348a). 


ea 


THE STULPEVILER PAMILIES 15 


portion of the barony of Liddel, now a parish extending along 
the rivers Liddel and Kershope, took its name from him.! 

Nicholas de Stuteville I married Gunnora sister and coheir 
of Ralph d’Aubigny,? and widow of Robert de Gant, who died 
in 1191, and by whom she was the mother of Gilbert de Gant.’ 
On 25 April 1197 Nicholas and Gunnora, together with one of 
her sisters and her husband and the widower of her eldest sister, 
were plaintiffs in a final concord by which William d’Aubigny III] 
(their first cousin) recognized their right to the lands of Ralph 
d’Aubigny, namely a fee of 15 knights in Aubourn, co. Lincoln, 
and elsewhere in Lincolnshire and Yorkshire.* Chronological 
considerations show that Gunnora must have been Nicholas de 
Stuteville’s second wife. The name of his first wife, the mother 
of his sons Robert and Nicholas IJ, is not known.é 

The details given below under his son Robert show that 
he was living in 1214. It can therefore be supposed that he was 
the Nicholas de Stuteville who was one of the confederate barons 
who met at Stamford at Easter 1215, and one of those who were 
excommunicated by the pope on 16 Dec. A reference in 1224 
suggests that it was he who was captured at Lincoln on 20 May 
1217 and died in the war waged. between king John and the 
barons ;* and a reference given under Nicholas de Stuteville II 
below shows that he was dead by 30 March 12188 


ROBERT DE STUTEVILLE V, elder son of Nicholas de Stute- 
ville 1° In an assize of darrein presentment to the church of 
Arthuret, Cumberland, brought by Joan de Stuteville (daughter 
of Nicholas de Stuteville II) against the abbot of Jedburgh in 
1266, it was stated on her behalf that Robert her ancestor!® 


1 Nicolson and Burn, Cumberland, p. 464. 

2 Gunnora’s father was Ralph d’Aubigny, the elder, younger brother 
of William d’Aubigny ‘Brito’ II of Belvoir ; see ped. in E.Y.C., i, p. 461. 

3 Complete Peerage, new ed., vii, 674. For Gilbert de Gant’s descendants 
see ibid., v, pp. 625 et seg. For the dispute between Nicholas and Gunnora 
against Maurice de Gant for the manor of Saltby, co. Leicester, during the 
years 1200-1206, see E.Y.C., vi, p. 36. 

4 Feet of Fines, Pipe Roll Soc. vol. xx, no. 134; and cf. Farrer’s notes 
to the Belvoir fee in E.Y.C., 1, pp. 460-3. 

5 There is a curious reference in 1203 which suggests that Nicholas I 
was then the husband of Agnes de Scoteni (Curia Regis Rolls, iii, 49); but 
other references (2b7d., 11, pp. 235, 246) suggest that Nicholas de Stuteville 
is an error for Nicholas de Basing, who was certainly one of Agnes’s husbands. 
For Agnes and her matrimonial complications see Miss Major’s notes in 
Reg. Antiquissimum, Lincoln Rec. Soc., vi, 177-8. 

6 R. de Wendover, Flores Hist., Rolls Ser., ii, pp. 114, 169-70. 

Rot. Claus., i, 600b. Madox, Exchequer, ii, 199”, cites Pipe Roll 
5 Hen. III for the record of the fine made by Nicholas for his redemption, 
pledging his manors of Kirkby Moorside and Liddel for the purpose. 

8 The Liddel evidence given above under date 25 March 1216 need not 
suggest that he was then dead ; it may mean that he had been deprived as 
a rebel. On this question see Ae Poole, Domesday Book to Magna Carta, 

pp. 481-2. On the other hand an entry of 29 June 127 (Rot. Claus., i, 313a) 
suggests that he was not then living. The balance of evidence points to his 
having died soon after his capture at the battle of Lincoln. 

9 That he was the elder son, and so elder brother of Nicholas II, see 
the clause to that effect in charter no. 52. 10 Presumably antecessor. 


16 STUTEVILLE FEE 


presented Robert his clerk in king John’s time, who was duly 
instituted and died last as rector ; that from Robert the right of 
presentation came to Eustace his son and heir ; that as Eustace 
died without an heir of his body it reverted to Nicholas brother 
of Robert [2.e. Nicholas de Stuteville IT] as his uncle and heir ; 
and that it passed from Nicholas to Joan the claimant, as his 
daughter and heir.! 

This Robert de Stuteville married Sibyl daughter of Philip 
de Valognes, who in the period 1192-1205 gave to him and Sibyl 
and the heirs of their bodies the vill of Torpenhow, Cumberland.? 
In 1212 Robert de Stuteville was holding this vill of the king by 
cornage, rendering 24s. yearly ; and it was recorded that it had 
been of the barony of Alice de Rumilly,? and that as Reginald 
de Lucy who formerly held the land with Alice’s sister refused 


the homage of Philip de Valognes, antecessor of Robert and his - 


wife, king Henry II took his homage, and its service, therefore, was 
in the king’s hand.4 

In the lifetime of his father he acquired, presumably as a 
gift from him, a knight’s fee in Middleton, wap. Pickering Lythe, 
which, described as Robert son of Nicholas de Stuteville, he was 
holding early in the thirteenth century.® He was a benefactor of 
Rosedale priory, to which he gave the vale of Rosedale and other 
gifts, which were confirmed by Nicholas his father.® 

In 1201 when Nicholas de Stuteville owed a scutage payment 
of 100s. in-Cumberland it was recorded that he held by cornage, 
and that his son would cross the seas for one knight.?- The son 
was probably Robert, who at Michaelmas 1203 owed 100s. scutage 
for a knight’s fee in Cumberland. In Trinity term 1212, with 
Nicholas his father and others, he was found not guilty of disseisin 
of a tenement in Cottingham ;® and he died before 27 Nov. 1213, 
when Nicholas de Stuteville was ordered to deliver Eustace son 


+ Coram Rege, 50 Hen. IIL, no. 126, m. 28, given in Bain, Cal. Docs. 
Scotland, i, no. 2413. Actually Nicholas II died earlier than his nephew 
Eustace (see below). The same descent is given in some Assize proceedings 
relating to a moiety of a carucate in Tranby between Baldwin Wake and 
the prior of Watton pd. in Guisborough Chartulary, ii, 257n. 

* Charter no. 54, with a note on Philip de Valognes. His daughter Sibyl 
must not be confused with a Sibyl de Valognes of an earlier generation, who 
was the wife successively of Robert de Ros, William de Percy and Ralph 
d’Aubigny (Complete Peerage, new ed., x, 441-3). 

> In respect of her barony of Allerdale, most of which she inherited as 
one of the coheirs of her parents, William son of Duncan and Alice de 
Rumilly theelder:; see 2. YC, vai, pe UG: 

* Di, Of 1Ces, Dp. 198: 

> Red Bk. of Exch., p. 491 ; date assigned 1210-12. This was the land 
constituting the honour of Rosedale. At Mich. 1205 he rendered account 
in Yorkshire of 30 marks for the sixth scutage (Pipe Roll 7 John, p. 61), 
which at 2 marks per fee represents no less than 15 k.f. and is difficult to 
understand ; the ensuing rolls show the process of payment. 

® Charter no. 55 and note. The date of the foundation is said to be 
temp. Richard I (Mon. Ang., iv, 316); but it was certainly earlier (see 
Chapter IV, §19). 

’ Rot. de Obl., p. 162; Pipe Roll 3 John, p. 255. 

8 Pipe Roll 5 John, p. 256. 

° Curia Regis Rolls, vi, 332. 


THE STUTEVILLE. PAMILIES i 


and heir of Robert de Stuteville to Saer earl of Winchester.t 

Sibyl de Valognes, his widow, gave the church of Torpenhow 
to Rosedale priory, which was confirmed by her son Eustace.? 
In 1214 she demanded against Nicholas de Stuteville (her father- 
in-law) a third of the honour of Liddel, Cumberland, a third of 
the honour of Rosedale, and a third of the vills of Middleton, 
Cropton, Cottingham, Buttercrambe, Scrayingham, Kirkby 
[Moorside], co. York, [Long] Marton, Westmorland, and of Brink- 
low, co. Warwick, as her dower of which Robert formerly her 
husband had endowed her by the consent and will of the said 
Nicholas, Robert’s father ; Nicholas produced the king’s letters of 
protection for being quit of all pleas as long as his son was in 
Poitou on the king’s service.2 She was living on 26 April 1222, 
though there had been a rumour of her death; and she died 
before 24 June of that year; her manor of Torpenhow, held in 
chief, was committed to the bishop of Carlisle, and subsequently 
to Roger de Quincy, who had Eustace de Stuteville, her son and 
heir, in his wardship.* 


EUSTACE DE STUTEVILLE, son and heir of Robert de Stute- 
ville V. On 21 June 1219 orders were issued to deliver seisin to 
Saer earl of Winchester of the land of Liddel which Nicholas de 
Stuteville [II] had assigned to Eustace son of his brother Robert 
de Stuteville until his full age, the custody of which Wilham 
de Valognes had bequeathed to Saer.> Saer gave the custody to 
his son Roger de Quincy, whose right thereto was confirmed on 
21 July 1220 after Saer’s death.® 

In 1230 Eustace de Stuteville’s tenants in Cropton [par. 
Middleton] and Barton’ owed 5 marks for the tallage;’ and he was 
a benefactor of Rosedale priory,? and of St. Peter’s hospital, 
York? 

In 1234 Eustace de Stuteville came before the king and 
showed that Nicholas de Stuteville, his uncle, in the county 
court of York made over" the manor of Cottingham as his right, 
so that he was in seisin thereof for thirteen weeks, and that after- 
wards he was disseised by the king’s will; and he sought justice 
and such seisin as he had had. On the other hand Hugh Wack 


1 Rot. Claus., i, 155b. Robert de Stuteville is said to have been buried 
in Meaux abbey, to which Eustace his son gave for a yearly pittance for 
his soul land and pasture in the territory of Cottingham in place of 3 marks 
(Chron. de Melsa, i, 426). 

4 Note to charter no: °55. 

3 Curia Regis Rolls, vii, 178. The claim was for a third of a large 
part of the Stuteville inheritance, mostly then in the possession of Nicholas. 

* hot. Claus., 1, pp. 493b, 512b > Exc. ¢ Rot. Pim., 1, pp. 89, 99. 

> Rot. Clanus., 1, 393b: 

' © Ibid., p. 423b; Pat. Rolls, 1216-25, p. 243. 

7 Not identified ; but a place called Bartondale in Cropton occurs in a 
record of 1334 (N.R. Rec. Soc., N.S., ui, 149). 

8 Pipe Roll 14 Hen. II, pp. 33, 275. For Eustace’s holding in Middleton 
at his death see Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 148 and note. 

9% Charter no. 56, and note to no. 55. 

10 Charter no. 57, which shows his tenure of the honour of Liddel. 
11 dimisit se de manerio ... et illud et veddidit ut jus suum. 


18 STUTEVILLE FEE 


and William de Mastak said that they had been in seisin by 
reason of their wives, daughters and heirs of the said Nicholas, 
without whom they ought not to reply, and that they had been 
in seisin by the king’s will until the king had disseised them ; 
and further that their disseisin was more recent and that they 
knew nothing of the seisin of Eustace. The king recorded that 
he found Eustace seised, and that Eustace had offered 1000lz. 
to preserve his seisin except by judgment, or 50 marks for the 
king to take the land into his hand pending judgment ; and he 
admitted that he had disseised Eustace without judgment. 
Eustace again offered the 1000/., which was accepted! The 
king also said that after the seisin which he gave to Hugh and 
William he took the land into his hand by the counsel of the 
magnates of his court on account of their waste in woods and 
other things. And because the king had first disseised Eustace 
without judgment it was considered that this should first be 
cancelled and that Eustace should have seisin again and answer 
Hugh and William and their wives according to law either by 
an assize of mort d’ancestor or a writ of right.” 

Eustace, who on 25 Jan. 1240-1 was appointed as one of the 
knights in Yorkshire to view the condition of the royal castles,’ 
died shortly before 18 Oct. 1241 ; and on 2 Nov. seisin of his lands 
was ordered to be given to Joan wife of Hugh Wake, who had 
made a fine of 100. for having seisin thereof, Eustace being 
described as her kinsman and the lands falling to her by heredi- 
tary right.* 

The wife of Eustace was named Nichola. On 26 Feb. 1243-4 
the sheriff of Yorkshire was ordered to take into the king’s hand 
the lands which she held in dower of Eustace’s inheritance ; and 
on 3 May 1244 William de Percy made a fine of 100 marks for 
having married her without licence.® 


NICHOLAS DE STUTEVILLE II, younger son of Nicholas 
de Stuteville I. At Michaelmas 1209, his father being then living, 
described as Nicholas son of Nicholas de Stuteville he owed 20 
marks that twelve knights of Ryedale and Pickeringlythe should 
make perambulation between the king’s forest and his.6 After 


! The offer is recorded on 26 June 1234, the sheriff of Yorkshire being 
ordered to give Eustace seisin of the manor after taking security (Exc. e 
Rot. Fin., 1, 259}. 

2 Bracton’s Note Book, no. 1106. The case is cited by Sir M. Powicke 
in his paper ‘Per judicium parium vel per legem terrae’ (Magna Carta 
Commemoration Essays, pp. 104-5). Eustace’s interest in the manor of 
Cottingham in Jan. 1240-1 is shown by the claim then made against him 
by Peter de Montfort for a moiety of it (Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 95). 

3 Close Rolls, 1237-42, p. 346. 

4 Exc. e Rot. Fin., i, pp. 357, 359. He can therefore be identified as 
the Eustace de Stuteville who died on crusade, and who, as Matthew Paris 
records (Chron. Maj., iv, 174), was succeeded in his inheritance by the 
wife of Hugh Wake. > Exc..e-Rot. Fim,, igpp: 414, 417. 

® Pipe Roll 11 John, p. 138. At the same date his brother Robert and 
he owed 12 marks to acquit their men of any violence done to the king’s 
foresters (ibid., p. 124). This suggests that he was then sharing with his 
brother in some of their father’s land. 


ee 


EE 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 19 


the death of his father he appears to have administered the 
inheritance of his nephew Eustace ; and in several references he 
is named as his father’s heir. On 30 March 1218 the sheriff of 
Warwickshire was ordered to give him seisin of the manor of 
Brinklow, which Eustace de Stuteville! had held, as the latter 
only had the land by the bail of Nicholas de Stuteville, Nicholas’s 
father, and the land fell to Nicholas the son by inheritance ;? and 
on 25 July a market and fair there were confirmed to him.2 On 
the Yorkshire eyre of 1218-19 he was a party to several cases 
which show his tenure of interests in Wauldby, Hessle, Cliff 
(nr. Market Weighton) and Skirpenbeck, all in the East Riding, 
and in Thirsk, mention being made of Walter de Saureby as his 
steward and of Benedict his serjeant.* 

In 1220 he witnessed a charter of William de Mowbray in 
favour of Fountains abbey.® In 1221 he was holding land in 
Fadmoor ;* and in the following year he recognized in a final 
concord that the greater part of 8 carucates in Skerne and 2 
carucates and a bovate in Hutton [Cranswick] and Cranswick 
were the right of the abbot and convent of Meaux of the gift of 
Nicholas de Stuteville, his father. In 1225 he brought a case 
against the abbot of St. Mary’s, York, complaining that there 
had been a breach of the agreement made in the time of king 
John® between the then abbot, plaintiff, and Nicholas de Stute- 
ville, Nicholas’s father, whose heir he was, tenant, relating to 
common of wood and pasture in Hutton le Hole, Spaunton and 
Farndale. The case was in progress in 1227, Nicholas complaining 
‘that the abbot had sold and destroyed wood to his damage of 
40l1., a point in dispute being whether a perambulation of bounds 
between the land of the elder Nicholas and the king’s forest 
absorbed the common into the latter or not.° Eventually the 
matter appears to have been settled by a final concord of 15 Oct. 
1233, when facilities were given for the cattle of Nicholas and 
his men in Kirkby Moorside, Fadmoor, Gillamoor and Farndale." 

He was patron of the church of Cottingham in 1225, of 
Rowley in 1226-7 and 1228, and of Scrayingham in 1233, of which 
on 10 Nov. there is a record of his assent to an institution to the 
vicarage.!2 In 1230-31 he confirmed a demise made to the arch- 


1 Younger brother of Nicholas the elder ; see above. 

2 Rot. Claus., 1, 07a. > 10td., P-sOob, 

AROS of the Jusices .... Yorks., Selden. Soc., 205.75, 155; 209, 258, 
341, 408, 928, 1119. The interest in Thirsk must have been quite small 
and subordinate. For Walter de Saureby probably taking his name from 
Sowerby, nr. Thirsk, see charter no. 52. 

5 Fountains Chartulary, i, 212. ® Yorks. Fines, 1218-31, p. 39. 

7 Ibid., p. 45. For these places see Chapter IV, §18. 

8 For this agreement, a final concord of 1207, see the note to charter 
Ho. 6; 

9 Monastic Notes, Y.EOS., 1, 232. 

10 Byacton’s Note Book, no. 254, where there are further details. A 
reference to the case and its postponement in 1226 is in Rot. Claus., ii, 142a. 

11 Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 7. At Westminster ; and Nicholas, whose 
death took place about then, was represented by an attorney. 

12 Reg. Gray, pp. 5, 15, 26,64. 


20 STUTEVILLE FEE 


bishop of York of land in Boltby and Ravensthorpe, both in 
par. Felixkirk.1 In 1230 he was assessed for scutage on 8 fees, 
paying 16 marks for the scutage of Kery ;? and rendered account 
of 1163l. 8s. 64d. for debts which he was discharging at the 
rate of 20/7. yearly and also of some smaller debts, besides 99984 
marks of his father’s fine for having his inheritance, which were 
in respite.2 On 4 Feb. 1232-3 he was one of four appointed as 
justices to deliver the gaol of York ;* and in the following May 
the king allowed his presentation of Peter de Rivallis to the 
church of Knaresborough to stand, notwithstanding that the 
manor was in the king’s hand as a pledge.> On 8 Sept. 1233 he 
was ordered to restore the land which had belonged to Eustace 
de Stuteville, his uncle, to Robert son and heir of Eustace, who 
should become the man of Nicholas, notwithstanding that Robert 
was born and brought up overseas. In the same month he is 
named among the holders of knights’ fees in Lincolnshire of the 
honour of Chester.* 

Shortly afterwards he entered the priory of St. Andrew, 
York, where he died. The date of death was apparently before 
19 Oct. :® and on 19 Nov. 1233 the sheriff of Yorkshire was 
ordered to take into the king’s hand the lands which had belonged 
to him, including the manor of Cottingham, and to assign to 
Hugh Wake and Joan his wife, Nicholas’s elder daughter and 
heir her reasonable share, and similarly to William de Mastac, 
the king’s kinsman, to whom the king had given the marriage of 
Margaret, his other daughter and heir, causing them to have 
seisin, saving to Hugh and Joan the esnecia of the inheritance.’ 

Nicholas de Stuteville II’s wife was named Dervorguilla. 
On 20 Nov. 1233 orders were issued to Brian de Insula to receive 
from Dervorguilla, described as the widow of Nicholas de Stute- 
ville, Margaret his younger daughter and one of his heirs, and to 


1 Charter no. 59. 2 Pipe Roll 14 Hen III., pp. 33, 289. 

3 Ibid., p. 275. This shows that only 14 marks of the original fine of 
10,000 marks had been discharged (see above). In view of the non-pay- 
ment of the debt Knaresborough and Boroughbridge had not been restored. 

* Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1232-47, p. 30. 

5 Close Rolls, 1231-34, p. 224. In Oct. 1233 it was recognized on 
Nicholas’s behalf that the adv. of Knaresborough was the right of the 
abp. and the church of York as of the gift of the prior and convent of 
Nostell (Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 6). 

6 Close Rolls, 1231-34, p. 260. On 27 Nov. 1233, Nicholas being dead, 
the sheriff of Yorkshire was ordered to allow Robert to hold the land if 
Nicholas had restored it in his lifetime (¢bid., p. 346). The locality of the 
land has not been determined ; being in Yorkshire it cannot be Eustace’s 
land of Brinklow (see above). A deed in Hist. MSS. Comm., R.R. Hastings, 
i, 159, suggests that some of it may have been in Newton, par. Cottingham ; 
on this point see §6 below. 

7 Close Rolls, 1231-34, p. 264. Part or all of the land consisted of 
6 bov. in Stixwould (H.K.F., ii, 169). 

8 Close Rolls, 1231-34, p. 351. 9° Exe. €: Rot. in.,.%, 249; 

10 Close Rolls, 1231-34, p. 340. On 26 Nov. the sheriff was to restrict 
this to the lands of which Nicholas was seised at his death ; and on 13 Dec., 
as it was found that he died seised of the manor of Cottingham, the sheriff 
was able to give seisin to the heirs (ibid., pp. 343, 351). 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 21 


deliver her to William de Mastac ; and also to cause reasonable 
dower to be assigned to Dervorguilla from the lands of Nicholas.! 
Dervorguilla brought to her husband an interest in Whissendine, 
Rutland, which subsequently descended to their daughter Joan.? 
There are conclusive reasons for making it impossible that she 
was of the same generation as Dervorguilla, wife of John de 
Baliol and mother of John de Baliol, king of Scotland ; and it 
can be suggested that she was a sister of Alan of Galloway, son 
of Roland of Galloway by his wife Helen de Moreville, receiving 
Whissendine (held by Alan of Galloway) in frank-marriage, and 
that she was the aunt of Dervorguilla, wife of John de Baliol, 
who was undoubtedly Alan’s daughter.? In 1236 Dervorguilla 
widow of Nicholas de Stuteville made a payment for an agree- 
ment with Hugh Wake and his wife Joan. In 1238 dame Dervor- 
guilla de Stuteville was patron of the church of Bossall by reason 
of her custody of the land and heir of Richard de Bossall ;> and 
in Jan. 1240-1 she called to warrant Eustace de Stuteville, and 
Hugh Wake and his wife Joan, respectively, in claims made by 
Peter de Montfort for a moiety of a third of the manor of Cotting- 
ham and a moiety of a third of the manors of Buttercrambe and 
Scrayingham,® which thirds she was evidently holding in dower. 

Margaret the younger daughter, wife of William de Mastac, 
died shortly before 13 Nov. 1235, when the sheriff of Yorkshire 
was ordered to give seisin of her land to Hugh Wake and Joan 
his wife.’ 


" JOAN DE STUTEVILLE, elder daughter and eventually sole 
heir of Nicholas de Stuteville II, was married to Hugh Wake® 
before 29 May 1229, when Hugh was pardoned for having married 
her without the king’s licence.® 

References have already been given to the disputes over 
the manor of Cottingham which arose with her first cousin 
Eustace son of Robert de Stuteville after the death of her father 
in 1233. On 5 July 1234, as Hugh Wake had shown that by 
reason of the seisin which the king had ordered to be made to 
Eustace de Stuteville of the manor of Cottingham Eustace had 
put himself in the manors of Buttercrambe and Kirkby [ Moorside], 


! Close Rolls, 1231-34, p. 342. 

* H.K.F., ii, 359, giving details for the descent of Whissendine in the 
Wake family ; but the suggestion there made that the wife of Nicholas de 
Stuteville was identical with the wife of John de Baliol cannot be upheld. 

3 The reasons are given in detail in a paper by the present writer 
‘Two Dervorguillas’ in Eng. Hist. Review, Ixv (1950), pp. 89-91. 

* Exc. ¢ Rot. Fin., 1, 309. > Reg. Gray, p. 81. 

oY OVks: FAnes, 1232- 46, pp. 95, 97. For the Montfort claims see 
Appendix A. Peter was also claiming a moiety of two-thirds of these manors 
against Eustace and the Wakes. 

7 Close Rolls, 1234-37, p. 208. 

8 Son and heir of Baldwin Wake of Bourne, co. Lincoln, by Isobel 
daughter of William Briwere (Bk. of Fees, pp. 180, 395 ; Rot. Claus., i, 146a). 

9 Close Rolls, 1227-31, p. 179. On 25 June Nicholas was pardoned for 
having married his daughters and heirs [stc, but query vecte one of his 
daughters] without licence, and seisin of his lands taken into the kg’s hand 
for that reason was ordered to be given him (zbzd., p. 187). 


22 STUTEVILLE FEE 


of which Nicholas de Stuteville was seised at his death, and that 
they did not belong to the manor of Cottingham, and that Eustace 
disseised Hugh and his participant [7.e. William de Mastac) 
therein, the sheriff of Yorkshire was ordered, if the statement 
was correct, to give Hugh and his participant seisin of Nicholas’s 
lands not belonging to the manor of Cottingham, together with 
Hugh’s stock which he had in that manor ; and on the following 
day the sheriff had a revised order on similar lines to give Hugh 
and his participant seisin of the manors of Buttercrambe and 
Kirkby [Moorside].1_ It seems, therefore, that until the death of 
Eustace in 1241 Cottingham, with the honours of Liddel and 
Rosedale, were held by Eustace, and Buttercrambe and Kirkby 
Moorside were held by the issue of Nicholas de Stuteville II ; and 
that Joan wife of Hugh Wake became the eventual sole heir to 
all these properties, first by the death of her sister in 1235 and 
then by the death of Eustace in 1241. On 4 Feb. 1236-7 Hugh 
Wake and Joan his wife and Eustace de Stuteville were to be 
summoned to answer for the debts which Nicholas de Stuteville 
had owed to the king, and to receive judgment as to which of 
them ought to answer.? 

Hugh Wake died on crusade in 1241 ;? and on 2 Jan. 1241-2 
the king granted to Joan his widow the custody of all his lands to 
hold until the lawful age of his heirs, together with their marriage, 
and licence to marry at pleasure, for a fine of 10,000 marks, after 
the payment of which she would resume the yearly payment of 
201. made by her husband on account of the debts of Nicholas 
de Stuteville her father.4 Before Michaelmas 1244 she married, 
secondly, Hugh Bigod, Chief Justiciar of England, brother of 
Roger Bigod, earl of Norfolk, by whom she was the mother of 
Roger Bigod who succeeded as earl of Norfolk in 1270.5 Hugh 
Bigod died in 1266 ;® and on 18 July 1267, as Joan de Stuteville, 
she and her heirs were granted a weekly market and yearly fair 
at the manor of Liddel, and free warren in the demesne lands of 
Liddel, Arthuret and other places in Cumberland.’ She died 
shortly before 6 April 1276, her heir being her son Sir Baldwin 
Wake, whom she had enfeoffed of the manor of Kirkby Moorside 
two years previously. A description of we seal is given with 
her confirmation charter to Watton priory.® 

Sir Baldwin Wake died shortly before 10 Feb. 1281-2 :49 and 
_ the inquisitions held after his death give detailed particulars of 
the manors and knights’ fees representing his Stuteville inheri- 
tance." His son John Wake was summoned to Parliament as a 


1 Close Rolls, 1231-34, pp. 467-8. 2 I[bid., 1234-37, p. 520. 
3M. Paris, Chron. Maj., iv, 174. 4 Exc. e Rot. Fin., i, 364. 
° Complete Peerage, new ed., ix, 593. © Lot. 


’ Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1257-1300, p. 78; where John de Stuteville is 
evidently in error for Joan. 

8 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 195. Baldwin also held of her Buttercrambe 
and Scrayingham ; and she herself held Cottingham in demesne. For details 
recorded see Chapter [1 below. 

? Charter no. 61. 10 Cal. Fine Rolls, 127221307, p. 138. 

*1 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439 ; see Chapter II. 


CO ee 


THE STUTEVILLE PAMILIES 23 


baron ; and the Stuteville inheritance passed eventually to the 
latter’s granddaughter Joan, sister and heir of John earl of Kent, 
who married, first, Sir Thomas de Holand and secondly, Edward 
prince of Wales, by whom she was the mother of king Richard IT; 
her heir was her son Thomas de Holand, earl of Kent and lord 
Wake. 


89. 
THE STUTEVILLES OF WARWICKSHIRE 


In his notification of a gift to Pipewell abbey of land in 
Long Lawford, co. Warwick, John de Stuteville referred to 
Robert de Stuteville as his lord and brother ;? and in a record 
of his gift he 1s described as lord of Long Lawford, Newbold/-on- 
Avon], and Cosford. There are conclusive reasons for identifying 
his brother Robert as Robert de Stuteville III. First, his gift 
was confirmed by William son of Robert de Stuteville, referring 
to John as his uncle,* and later by Joan Wake in her widowhood 
and by Baldwin Wake, her son and heir,® Joan being great- 
granddaughter and ultimate heir of Robert de Stuteville III. 
And, secondly, in a long list of names in a Liber Vitae of Thorney 
abbey® there occur the names of John de Stuteuilla, Agnes wife 
of John, Robert father of John and his mother ‘Erenburga’.’ 

The interests in Long Lawford and Newbold were held at 
the Domesday survey by Geoffrey de Wirce ;§ and were after- 
wards given to Nigel d’Aubigny, from whom they were inherited 
by Roger de Mowbray.® There is evidence that Robert de Stute- 
ville enfeoffed John his younger brother of land in Long, Lawford,?° 
which conforms with the evidence given above ; and it can be 
deduced that these lands in Warwickshire, held by the Stutevilles 
and their descendants of the honour of Mowbray, formed part of 
the 10 knights’ fees granted to Robert de Stuteville III by Roger 
de Mowbray, as an initial settlement of the disputes between 

1 Complete Peerage, \st ed., vili, 35-6; new ed., vu, 150-4. Joan’s 
parents were Edmund of Woodstock, yr. son of king Edward I, and 
Margaret dau. and eventual heir of John lord Wake. 

* Charter mo. 62; 

3 Pipewell Reg., Cotton MS. Otho B. xiv, f. 189 (old f. 184). 


* Note to charter no. 62. 

> Pipewell Reg., ut sup. 

° Occupying ten folios in a Gospels, Vulgate version, from Thorney 
(B.M. Add. MS. 40,000). The reference is due to the kindness of Miss Dorothy 
Whitelock, who lent me her transcript of these folios. They are described 
in her paper ‘Scandinavian personal names in the Liber Vitae of Thorney 
abbey’ in Viking Society for Northern Research, Saga-Book, vol. xii (1940). 

7 f. 2V. Two names are interspersed between those of John de Stute- 
ville and the wife and parents of John ; but it is clear that John refers to 
John de Stuteville, his parents being Robert de Stuteville II and Erneburga. 

& D.B,,°1, 243b: 

? For the Wirce-Mowbray interests in these places see the charters in 
Mon. Ang., vi, 996, cited for other places in the note to charter no. 43. 

10 Dugdale, Warwickshire, 2nd ed., i, 32. Evidence is given in the note 
to charter no. 62 that this was not later than 1158. 


STUTEVILLE FEE 


24 


QOL SUIAT 


V 


LIGT MOprm 
@ St SUTAT] 


elyoejsny = FTeYSoyeL op HPA = JINJUeY epyfosy 


Q9LT Surat] yy0q 


dytyg 
| 


1930 


(Aqey FO d[[TAON onb v) 


V 


P2IP[P| JO WOS 4IOqGOYy 


Aqey JO p10] 
‘ulJ[Oq JO uos 


PetPlPW 


[ItH-94}-u0-uopecsig jo | FELL Surat 
FINjUe_ WITT 


= Bemmng 


ow Bie safe wy) © alse Se ein Me 0 eis ele i616 (bee wie 


QOL SULATT 
=jJinqzueg Urey 


‘aS 
eululy, «=eising j[njued WIeTIIMA 


| | 


OTST SULAT 
PIOGMON pue pIOFML’T Fo 
= y[nqued 10s0y 


F1-60Z1 ‘P ‘d's “p 
PlOGMON Pue PIO[MLT JO losunod 94} 
Sse MPTP E, ATIMAGLALS AA AAO ATMADTLINIS ad NHO[ 


| | 


r3it 9 P V 
UOAV-U0-pfoq Moa N 


pue p1ojmey suo7y jo S811 “P 


SOUSV=ATTIAGINIS AG NHOf{ []] ATUAAINIS Ad LuadOYy 


| | | 


esInqouly =JT]I ATWUAALALS Ad LUAGOY 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 25 


them, though it is important to notice that no interest in these 
particular lands could have been claimed by Robert de Stuteville 
III, as was the case elsewhere, by reason of any tenure of his 
grandfather Robert de Stuteville I as the successor of Hugh son 
of Baldric.4 

The connexion between Warwickshire and Cottingham in 
Yorkshire is illustrated by two original charters of William 
Pantulf of Breedon-on-the-Hill, co. Leicester. By the first? he 
gave to Langley priory the churches of Somerby and Little Dalby, 
co. Leicester, and land in those places; and by the second? he 
gave in dower to Burga his wife* ‘Tunga’, which can be identified 
as Tonge, a hamlet in Breedon-on-the-Hill.5 The first was wit- 
nessed by Robert de Stuteville, Roger and John de Stuteville ; 
and the second by Robert de Stuteville, Roger de Stuteville, 
John de Stuteville his father and John his brother. The remaining 
witnesses are the same in the two charters, evidently issued at 
the same time ;* they include members of a family taking its name 
from Cottingham, a priest of Rowley [E.R.], and a chaplain of 
Cottingham. 

Another tenure of John de Stuteville the elder is shown in 
the carta of Geoffrey Ridel returned from Northamptonshire in 
1166, where it is recorded that John de Stuteville held 12 caru- 
cates of the new feoffment in Abkettleby, Holwell and Harby 
[co. Leicester], and one carucate in Hemington [co. Northampton].’ 
Geoffrey Ridel had confirmed to John de Stuteville c. 1160 all 
the: tenements which John held of Geoffrey s feé, the charter, 
issued on the day when John did homage to Geoffrey at North- 
ampton, including among the witnesses R. son of Nicholas de 
Stuteville, Thomas his brother, R. de Stuteville, Nicholas de 
Stuteville and Richard Cruera.8 There is also evidence that he 

1 For the possibility of some of the interests of Geoffrey de Wirce 
having passed to the Stutevilles see the note to charter no. 43. 

2 Cotton Ch. v, 62, pd. in F. M. Stenton, Danelaw Charters, no. 415. 

+ BM. Add. Ch, 24306, pd.im 2sY.C.,.1, mo: 4s. 

4 The tithe of the mills in “‘Tunga’ and Wilson, co. Leicester (Wiveleston) 
was given to Langley priory by Burga widow of William Pantulf of Breedon 
(Mon. Ang., iv, 222). William Pantulf of ‘Samella’, with his wife Burga and 
his three sons William, Roger and Philip, was a benefactor of the abbey 
of St-André-en-Gouffern in 1166 (Cal. Docs. France, no. 597), in which 
year he held a knight’s fee of the honour of Ferrers in England (Red Bk. 
Exch: p. 337): 

° There is no doubt about this identification, as is convincingly shown 
by other references in Mon. Ang., loc. cit. It was first made known to me 
by the late Mr. Lewis Loyd (a letter dated 23 Aug. 1939) ; and Farrer’s 
suggested identification of a Tung in Yorkshire cannot be accepted. 

6 The two churches named were confirmed to Langley priory by 
Robert bishop of Lincoln (Madox, Formulare Anglicanum, no. 117), who 
died in 1166. 

t hed -Bks Exch., p>» B3h. 

8 Harl. Ch. 55 D.8, pd. in Danelaw Charters, no. 457. It seems likely 
that the first of these witnesses was Robert son of Nicholas de Stuteville 
of Valmont (see $7), and if so Thomas is an otherwise unrecorded brother ; 
the third is probably Robert de Stuteville III, and the last Richard Cruer 
who held a tenancy of him in 1166 (see Chapter LV, §5) ;.the fourth witness 
is possibly Nicholas, younger son of Robert III. 


26 STUTEVILLE. FEE 
held an interest in Wing, Rutland. In the period 1151-54 he 
confirmed to Thorney abbey half that vill, which Robert de 
Montfort had given.! 

John de Stuteville was probably the man of that name 
who witnessed a Leicestershire charter of Ranulf earl of Chester, 
1139-47,2 and a charter of Simon earl of Northampton to the 
church of Lincoln, 1148-51. The details given above show that 
he had a wife named Agnes and two sons John and Roger ;4 and 
he probably died c. 1184 (see below). 

Roger son of John de Stuteville confirmed tithe in Newbold- 
on-Avon to the priory of Monks Kirby.® In the narrative account 
in the Pipewell Register, cited above, it is stated that Roger de 
Stuteville gave to Roger Pantulf his nephew his manor of Newbold- 
on-Avon, and that from Roger Pantulf came William Pantulf his 
son and heir, who died without issue, leaving as his heirs his two 
sisters Burgia and Emma.® Roger Pantulf made an agreement 
with Pipewell abbey relating to moor and pasture in Long Lawford 
in 1209-10.7. In 1200 he had been defendant against Agnes de 
Stuteville in a plea of land in Warwickshire ;§ and in 1214 Robert 
son of Maldred demanded against Roger Pantulf a moiety of 8 
carucates in [Long] Lawford, of 5 carucates in Newbold [-on- 
Avon], and of 3 carucates in Cosford, as his right which ought 
to descend to him for his share of the sisters of Roger de Stuteville.® 

One further point must be noticed. Reference has been 
made above to William Pantulf of Breedon-on-the-Hill and his 
wife Burga. In 1184 a Burga de Stuteville rendered account of 
20 marks for a recognition of the death of John her brother in 
respect of the land of ‘Ketelebi’ with its appurtenances. As 

1 Charter no. 63. 

2 Hist. MSS. Comm., A. &. Hastings, 1, 67. 

3 Reg. Antiquissimum, Lincoln Rec. Soc., ii, 1. 

* That John was the elder is suggested in the confirmation charter of 
Henry II cited in the note to charter no. 62. He presumably died s.p., his 
heir being Roger his brother. 

5 Dugdale, Warwickshire, i, 96. ; 

6 Several details follow relating to the subsequent descent. It can be 
deduced that Roger de Stuteville, as well as his brother John, died without 
issue. There is a charter in Szv Christopher Hatton’s Book of Seals, no. 269, 
by which a certain Philip son of Roger Pantulf of Newbold gave to his 
mistress and illegitimate children a small amount of land in Long Lawford, 
parts of which he had of the gifts of his father and William his brother ; 
the date assigned is mid 13th cent. ; and unless Philip died before his brother 

- he could not have been a full brother of William and his two sisters. 

7 Madox, Formulare Anglicanum, no. 47. 

8 Curia Regis Rolls, i, 283. Agnes may have been the widow of John 
de Stuteville the elder, or, more probably on chronological grounds, the 
widow of one of Roger Pantulf’s uncles. 

° Ibid., vii, 283. The course of this case and matters relating thereto 
have been described by the present writer in a paper ‘A note on a Neville 
ancestry’ in Antiquaries Journal, xxxi, 201-4, where the deduction is made 
that Meldred son of Dolfin, lord of Raby, co. Durham, whose son Robert 
married the Neville heiress, was the husband of a sister of Roger son of 
John de Stuteville. If this is accepted, John de Stuteville would have been 
the father-in-law of Meldred and an ancestor of his Neville descendants. 

10 Pipe Roll 30 Hen. II, p. 49 (Warwick and Leicester roll). Payment 
was completed in 1187 (bid. 33 Hen. II, p. 117). 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 27 


William Pantulf’s widow, Burga made a small gift of land in 
‘Ketlebi’ to Langley priory.t In 1199 Roger Pantulf was plaintiff 
against Walter de Tattishall and Isolda his wife and Eustachia, 
Isolda’s sister, for a knight’s fee in ‘Ketlebi’ and ‘Holewell’, co 
Leicester.2. It can be supposed that Isolda was the wife of Walter 
son of Robert de Tateshall who held an interest in Breedon-on- 
the-Hill,* and who as Isolda Pantulf, then a widow, confirmed 
gifts to Langley priory in 1217 which had been made by William 
Pantulf her grandfather and Burgia her grandmother.* It has 
been noted above that John de Stuteville held an interest in 
Abkettleby and Holwell, co. Leicester ; and Roger Pantulf, the 
plaintiff in 1199, was one of his grandsons and heirs. The de- 
duction can therefore be made, though as a tentative suggestion, 
that Burga, wife of William Pantulf was sister of John de Stute- 
ville the elder, and that her interest in these places was given to 
her on her marriage with William Pantulf, reservation being made, 
perhaps, for the continuation of the interest of her brother John 
for his life. In that event she can be identified as a daughter of 
Robert de Stuteville II.° Her christian name recalls that of the 
latter’s wife Erneburga ; and it can be noticed that there were 
two other examples of the name Burga or Burgia—namely, 
Burga daughter of Robert de Stuteville ITI who married William 
de Vescy (p. 8 above), and Burgia daughter of Roger Pantulf 
(see above), both of whom were lineal descendants of Erneburga. 


§3. 


fe Slur VILEES OF WESTON COLVILLE 
AND BURTON AGNES 


The details given below will show that an Osmund de 
Stuteville had an interest in Weston Colville, co. Cambridge, 
held of the honour of Warenne, in the reign of Henry II, and that 
his successors there were Roger de Stuteville and Roger’s son 
Anselm. They will also show, in the references to the disputes 
over Anselm’s inheritance, that Anselm had a niece whose husband 
was engaged in a case in 1199. This suggests that the latest 
possible date for Roger’s birth is 1145. He can therefore scarcely 
have been the son of Osmund de Stuteville of Cowesby and 
Gressenhall, who died on crusade c. 1192, and whose widow was 


1 Mon. Ang... 1v, 222. 2 fot. Cur. Regis, i, 432. 

> Mon. Ang., vi, 98. In 1223 the. land, im Leicestershire of Isolda 
Pantulf, mother of Robert de Tateshal, which had been taken into the 
kg’s hand for debt, was to be delivered to Robert (Exc. e Rot. Fin., i, 105). 

4 Mon. Ang., iv, 222, where the date is wrongly given as 1247. She 
mentioned her (later) husband Walter de Baskerville. 

> It is unlikely that Wiliam and Burga who issued a charter in 1166, 
mentioning his sons William, Roger and Philip (see above), could have been 
the parents of Roger Pantulf, nephew of Roger de Stuteville, who was 
living in 1220 (Curia Regis folls, viii, 314); and therefore, notwithstanding 
the pedigree in Dugdale, Warwickshire, i, 95, it is unlikely that Burga was 
the daughter of John de Stuteville the elder and sister of John the younger. 
At the same time it must be recognized that, if she was the sister of John 
the elder, there would have been two Pantulf-Stuteville marriages. 


28 STUTEVILLE FEE 


living as the wife of a subsequent husband in 1200 (see §4). 
Moreover Cowesby, held of the main branch of the Stuteville 
family, was inherited by that Osmund’s descendants, who had no 
interest in Weston Colville ; nor had the successors of Osmund 
de Stuteville of Weston Colville any direct tenure of the main 
Stuteville fee. In the account of Osmund de Stuteville of Cowesby 
it will be suggested that he was a younger son of Robert de 
Stuteville III. The combined evidence therefore leads to the 
deduction that there were two Osmunds de Stuteville of different 
generations. Although there is no proof that Roger de Stuteville 
who succeeded Osmund in Weston Colville was his son? the fact 
is very likely ; and it can be suggested that this Osmund was 
a younger brother of Robert de Stuteville III, and so an uncle 


of Osmund de Stuteville of Cowesby. Chronological considerations 


support this suggestion. 

At Michaelmas 1172 Roger de Stuteville paid 37s. 6d. scutage 
for the fee which he held of the fee of Adam de Brus [II]*. This 
represented a holding of 1g knights’ fees; and there seems no 
doubt that it included the manor of Burton Agnes and lands 
belonging thereto. It is possible that Roger acquired this by 
marriage ; but the alternative that he inherited it from his father, 
and that his father was enfeoffed by Brus, must not be over- 
looked,® in which case his father’s death was not later than 1172. 
Mappleton, held of Brus as a sub-tenure of the honour of Holder- 
ness,® was presumably acquired in the same way. 


Roger de Stuteville was succeeded by his son Anselm.’ 
This was presumably earlier than Michaelmas 1194, when William 
Engelram owed 20 marks for having right in the king’s court 
for a knight’s fee in West Heslerton against Anselm (Alelmum) 


1 It must be noticed that in one place interests were held by both 
families. Among the places where Isabel widow of Osmund de Stuteville 
of Cowesby claimed dower was Brantingham ; and in 1203 some of the 
heirs of Anselm were disputing about land there (see below). But the 
interests in that place were much divided, one portion being held of the 
Brus fee (E.Y.C., ii, p. 16; ili, p. 440); and it was evidently in that portion 
where the dispute arose ; whereas another portion, held by the Stutevilles 
of Cowesby, was a direct tenure of the Stuteville fee. 

2 Farrer assumed this was so in £.Y.C:, ii, p. 69, but the reference 
which he cites (Yorks. Fines, John, no. 450) does not mention Osmund or 
Roger. 

: 3 Pipe Roli 18 Hen. IT, p. 62 (Yorkshire roll). 

4 E.Y.C., ui, p. 35; and see p. 34 for the lands of the soke which were 
given to Robert de Brus when he acquired the manor. Farrer suggests that 
Burton Annais, later Burton Agnes, acquired its distinctive name from 
Agnes daughter of Stephen count of Aumale and wife of Adam de Brus II. 

> Farrer suggests that Osmund may have held Burton Agnes of Brus 
in 1166 (ibid., p. 13); but no carta of Brus recording his knights has been 
preserved. 

GS Pbtd.,. lil, p. 69. 

7 The relationship is established by an original charter cited by Poulson 
in Holderness, 1, 359, by which the abbot of Aumale gave to Anselm son of 
Roger [de] Stuteville the advowson of Mappleton with a condition attached. 
Roger de Stuteville, his wife and his son Anselm are entered in the Liber 
Vitae of Durham (1841 ed., p. 100). 


——L——————<— = 


| 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 29 


de Stuteville.! Anselm de Stuteville quitclaimed to Lewes priory 
his right in the patronage of the church of Weston Colville (see 
the case of 1203 cited below); and he gave (or more probably 
confirmed) the advowson of Mappleton? to the abbey of Aumale 
(see the fine of 1212 cited below). He confirmed land, probably 
in Brantingham, to Meaux abbey,’ and gave land in Little Kelk 
to Robert Talun.4 He can, perhaps, be identified as the Anselm 
de Stuteville who witnessed Henry II’s charters at Tours in 
favour of the abbey of Valmont.® 


Anselm de Stuteville was dead in 1199, when the disputes 
over his inheritance, which lasted for several years, had begun. 
In that year Robert de Tateshale was engaged in a case in York- 
shire against Alice de Stuteville, Herbert de St. em [?] and 
his wife, and Robert de Cramaville and Isabel his wife.6 In 1202 
Agnes wife of Robert de Basingham was engaged in a plea of 
land there with Alice de Stuteville ;? and in 1203 Alice was in 
dispute with Robert de Tateshale and Rohese his wife relating to 
their share of the land which had belonged to Isabel de Cramaville ° 
and with Herbert de St. Quintin and Agnes his wife relating to 
the custody of 14 bovates of land in Rowlston.® The dispute with 
the St. Quintins lasted for several years. In 1210 they sought 
against Alice 2 carucates and 40 acres in Burton [Agnes] as their 
reasonable share of the tenement which had formerly belonged to 
Anselm de Stuteville, brother of Agnes and Alice, who said that 
Anselm had five sisters, one of whom, Gundreda, had two daughters 
possessing a fifth of the inheritance.° Other details relating to 
Anselm’s sisters and their families which are provided by the 
proceedings show that in 1211 Anselm de Coleville," and in 1212 
Robert de Basingham and Agnes his wife, and also Rohese de 
Tateshale!® had an interest, and in 1219 Robert de Insula and 
Rohese his wife, William son of Warin and Agnes his wife similarly, 
Rohese and Agnes being nieces of Alice de Stuteville and Agnes 
St. Quintin.’ Among the additional places mentioned are Thorn- 


1 Pipe Roll 6 Ric. J, p. 161. Engelram completed payment by Mich. 
1196 (Chancellor's Roll 8 Ric. I, p. 176, where the spelling is Anselmum). 
For the Engelram or Ingram holding of the Brus fee in Heslerton see E.Y.C., 
i, no. 711, where in the note a reference is given to a charter which shows 
that Anselm de Stuteville had held of William Ingram interests in Yedding- 
ham, Heslerton, Cave, Brantingham, Cliffe and Hotham, these interests 
being given by Ingram to dame Alice de Estutevill, Anselm’s sister. 

2 This was one of the churches originally given to the abbey of Aumale 
by Stephen count of Aumale (E£.Y.C., ii, no. 1304). 

3 Chron. de Melsa, i, 171. See also a confirmation of land near Blanch- 
marle grange by Roger de Stuteville, presumably Anselm’s father, on p. 172. 

* Charter no. 64. 

> Delisle et Berger, Actes de Henri II, ii, pp. 349-50; the date was 
not earlier than the death of Robert de Stuteville of Valmont c. 1185 
(see §7). 


6 Rot. Cur. Regis, 1, 80. '- Cuna Regis Rolls, i, 129, 
® Ibid. p. 175 ; heading Lincs. > Lbid.,. p. 224. 
10 Tbtd., vi, 76. tt Jota... ps Lod. 


12 Tbid., p. 360. tS Joid., val, 173. 


30) STUTEVILLE FEE 


holme! and Mappleton.? In 1212 there was a question whether 
42 bovates which Alice held in demesne in Burton [Agnes] did 
suit to the mills of Thornholme and Harpham in the time of 
Roger de Stuteville and Anselm.? 

Another claimant to the inheritance of Anselm de Stuteville 
had originally arisen in the person of a certain Simon de Stuteville, 
who at Michaelmas 1199 rendered account of 5 marks for having 
his right for 9 carucates 7 bovates in Burton [Agnes] against 
Alice de Stuteville, 2 marks similarly for 5 carucates 6 bovates 
in Harpham against Herbert de St. Quintin and Agnes his wife, 
and 4 marks for 9 carucates 2 bovates in Thornholme (Tirmin) 
and Gransmoor (Craucemore) against Robert de Crammaville and 
Isabel his wife.4 His claim was evidently unsuccessful ; and it is 
not unlikely that he was illegitimate.® It is possible, though 
there is no clue available, that he was the ancestor of Henry de | 
Stuteville, whose daughter Agnes was plaintiff in an assize of 
novel disseisin of a messuage and land in Mappleton in 1260, the 
jurors saying that Henry had enfeoffed her on his death-bed, and 
that she should recover seisin.® 

The details given above, together with other evidence, 
provide the following particulars of the five sisters of Anselm de 
Stuteville < 

(1) Alice, the eldest sister. She married Roger de Merlay I, 
of Morpeth, Northumberland.’ At Michaelmas 1198 she rendered 
account of 20/2. in Northumberland for freedom from marriage.® 
For the soul of Isabel her sister she gave to Bridlington priory a 
toft in Thornholme, which was confirmed by Roger de Merlay III,® 
her grandson. In 1203 her son William de Merlay was engaged in 
a case with Herbert de St. Quintin and Agnes his wife relating to 
2 carucates of land in Brantingham, Hotham and Yeddingham.! 
In 1217 the sheriff of Northumberland was ordered to give her 
seisin of the lands of which she had been disseised by reason of 
the. war, alter her return to fidelity." She-died in 1219 in the 
course of some of the proceedings mentioned above, her heir 

1 Curia Regis Rolls, iii, 39; Tirhn’ is presumably Thornholme, and 
not Thirn as indexed. 

2 Ibid., iv, 220, where the St. Quintins held of Alice, who held of 
Peter de Brus, who held of the honour of Holderness. 

* Tbid.,. V1, 235. 

* Pipe Roll 1 John, p. 53. 

> He can presumably be identified as the Simon de Stuteville who 
witnessed a charter of Peter de Brus, 1196-c.1212 (£.Y.C., ti, no. 669), and 
who occurs as a pledge for John the clerk of Mappleton, temp. John (Yorks. 
Assize Rolls, Y.R.S., p. 25). 

6 Ibid., p. 123. 

7 A pedigree of the Merlay family with documentary references is 
given in Hodgson, Northumberland, part ii, vol. ii, pp. 374 et Seq. 

8 Pipe Roll 10 Ric. I, p. 146. The debt was discharged by Mich. 1199 
(ibid. 1 fohn, p. 121). 

®° Charter no. 65. Her charter was witnessed by Anselm her son, 
evidently a younger son. 

10 Curia Regis Rolls, ii, pp. 261, 285. William was a younger son 


(Hodgson, loc. cit). 
11 Rot. Claus., i, 341b. 


THE STUTEVILLE: FAMILIES Pl | 


being Roger de Merlay.1. This was her son Roger de Merlay II, 
of Morpeth, who died in 1239, being succeeded by his son Roger 
de Merlay III. In 1257 the latter was granted free warren in his 
demesne lands in Burton Agnes, and a weekly market and a 
yearly fair at his manor there.2 At his death in 1265 it was found 
that he held the manor of Burton [Agnes], including a mill at 
Thornholme and lands in Dringhoe and Thornholme, held of 
Peter de Brus, and a number of knights’ fees pertaining to the 
manor amounting to about 43, of which Herbert de St. Quintin 
held 23 in Harpham, Burton [Agnes], Thornholme, Mappleton, 
Rowlston and Gransmoor, and Hugh Gubion® a knight’s fee in 
Yeddingham, Brantingham, Cliffe and Cave, the other places 
where a knight’s fee or portions were held including Rudston, 
Bempton, Buckton and Haisthorpe; his heirs were his three 
daughters, of whom the eldest, aged twenty-four, was married to 
William de Greystoke, the second, aged ten, was unmarried, and 
the third, aged eight, was married to the son and heir of Mar- 
maduke de Thweng.4 Of these daughters, Mary the eldest had 
married Walter de Bolebec when a child in 1253, and then after 
his death not later than 1256 William de Greystoke, by whom 
she was the mother of Sir John de Greystoke ; the latter, born in 
1262 or 1263, succeeded his father in 1289 and was summoned 
to Parhament from 1295 to 1305.° Isabel, the second daughter, 
had married Robert de Eure by 1270,6 and then Robert de Somer- 
ville by 1272." Alice, the third daughter, died without issue 
shortly before 6 Feb. 1267-8, when her heirs were her sister Mary 
wife of William de Greystoke, aged twenty-six, and her other 
sister Isabel de Merlay, aged twelve.® 


Burton Agnes passed to the Somerville family, who were of 
Wichnor, co. Stafford. In 1312 Roger de Somerville (son of 
Robert de Somerville and Isabel de Merlay) described himself as 


1 Curia Regis Rolls, viii, 173. 2 Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1226-57, p. 468. 

3 Richard and his brother Hugh Gubion were grandsons of Alice 
de Stuteville through their mother Agnes de Merlay, and benefactors of 
Newminster abbey, a Merlay foundation (Newminster Chartulary, Surtees 
Soc., pp. 15-6). Richard gives the day of his grandmother’s death as 
30) June, (tb7d.,. p. 16).. ‘For the Gubion. family see Wik. Ff. 1, 63-7. 

* Cal. Ing. p.m., i, no. 636 ; and in fuller detail Yorks. Ingq., i, no. 56. 

> Complete Peerage, new ed., vi, 188 ; and for her first husband Ancestor, 
Wis L2d: 

© Cal. Ing. pmi., 4%, 00 775. 

7 Close Rolls, 1268-72, p. 557. Robert de Eure was dead by 4 Nov. 
1271 (Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1266-72, p. 603). 

8 Cal. Ing. p.m., i, no. 683. There is no mention of her husband, named 
in her father’s ing. as the son and heir of Marmaduke de Thweng. The 
latter's son and heir who grew to maturity was Robert de Thweng, who 
died v.p. and was the father of the notorious Lucy de Thweng (Complete 
Peerage, new ed., vii, 467). Lucy was born on 24 March 1278-9 (Yorks. Inq., 
ii, no. 133) ; and, whatever may be the precise circumstances of the Merlay- 
Thweng marriage, it is certain that Lucy’s mother was not a dau. of Roger 
de Merlay, and that Lucy was not descended through her mother from this 
branch of the Stuteville family. The statement that she was the dau. of 
Robert de Thweng by Matilda (sic) dau. and coh. of Roger de Merlay 
(Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxii, 84-5) is therefore incorrect. 


on STUTEVILLE FEE 


lord of Burton Agnes ;! and in 1316 he was returned as lord of 
that place and of Thornholme.? From his niece Joan, wife of Rees 
‘ap Griffith. Burton Agnes descended to the Boynton family.’ 


(2) Agnes, who married Herbert de St. Quintin. In 1202 
they were plaintiffs against Amand the butler in a fine for a 
mark’s rent and the service of<a quarter of a knight's fee in 
Owstwick.4 In 1204 a jury inquired whether the service of William 
de Rudeston’ for 14 bovates of land which he had held in Rowlston 
of the land of Anselm de Stuteville had been assigned to Herbert 
de St. Quintin and Agnes his wife in their share.® In 1212 they 
recognized that the advowson of Mappleton was the right of the 
abbot and church of Aumale of the gift of Anselm de Stuteville, 
brother of Agnes. As Agnes de Stuteville she gave to Bridlington 
priory for the soul of Isabel her sister a toft in Thornholme, which 
was confirmed by Roger de Merlay III.’ Her inheritance des- 
cended in younger lines of the St. Quintin family. In 1246 
Anselm de St. Quintin held 14 carucates and 23 bovates of Roger 
de Merlay in Mappleton, Rowlston and Owstwick.® Sir Alexander 
de St. Quintin, his brother, who in 1240 had an interest in Kelk 
and Gransmoor,!® was the ancestor of the St. Quintins of Harp- 
ham," where he made his will im 1257." The: holding “oi 25 
knights’ fees of Roger de Merlay in 1265 by Herbert de St. Quintin 
has been noted above. In 1316 Geoffrey de St. Quintin was 
returned as lord of Gransmoor and Harpham, and Herbert de St. 
Quintin as lord of Rowlston.¥ 


(3) Beatrice, who married, first, Bartholomew son of William 
de Bussey ; and, secondly, William de Coleville of Castle Bytham, 
co. Lincoln, who died in 1230.44 In 1203 William de Coleville and 
Beatrice his wife were ordered to permit the prior of Lewes to 
present to the church of Weston [Weston Colville, co. Cambridge}, 
the prior complaining that they had impeded his right of patronage 


tC. V. Collier, Documents at Burion Agnes (from £.R. Ant. . Soc. 
Tvansactions, vols. xvill, xix), no. 47. 

2 Feudal Aids, vi, 169. 

3 There is a ped. of the Somerville family, showing the descent through 
Griffith to Boynton in Shaw, Staffordshire, i, 126; and for the descent of 
Burton Agnes see C. V. Collier, The Boynton Family and Burton Agnes, 
pp. 69-74, where, however, Roger de Stuteville, the father of the Stuteville 
heiresses, is given as a younger son of Roger de Stuteville who fought in the 
battle of the Standard ; and this is unlikely to be true. 


Dugdale’ s Visitation, ed. J. W. Clay, 1, 184. 
2 Pd. in full from the original at Scampston (‘Old Wills from Harpham’ 
in E.R. Ant. Soc. Transactions, vol. xxi, p. 70; in which vol. is a collection 
of abstracts of the documents at Scampston, which have several references 
to the Stuteville inheritance). 

13 Feudal Aids, vi, pp. 163, 169. 

14 H.K.F., ii, 405. A pedigree of the Colevilles is given in Farrer, 
Feudal Cambridgeshive, p. 117. Presumably Anselm de Coleville who had 
an interest in the Yorkshire portion of Anselm de Stuteville’s inheritance 
in 1211 (see above) was a son of Beatrice, probably her elder son dying s.p. 


Yorks. Fines, John, ho. 193: > Curia Regis Rolls, iti, 177. 
6 Yorks. Fines, John, no. 450. 7 Charter no. 66. 
8 Her eldest son inherited Brandesburton, held by her husband. 
9 Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 162. 10 Tbid. , pp: 75, 87. 
1 


ji 
it 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 33 


which he claimed therein ; they said that Osmund de Stuteville, 
then patron, made a presentation in the time of Henry II, and 
that from Osmund’s right the advowson descended to Roger and 
from him to Anselm de Stuteville and from him to Beatrice ; but 
the prior put forward the charter of earl de Warenne, founder of 
Lewes priory, giving the church to the priory,! and the charter 
of Anselm de Stuteville confirming his gift and quitclaiming his 
right therein.? 

A knight’s fee in Weston Colville was held of the honour of 
Warenne by Roger de Coleville, son of William, in the period 
1236-43 ; by Walter de Coleville, son of Roger, in 1277; and by 
Edmund de Coleville, grandson of Walter, in 1302-03.3 

Beatrice also inherited a share in the Yorkshire lands of 
Anselm de Stuteville. In 1290 a jury stated that 6 carucates, 
and a messuage in Haisthorpe had been held for half a knight’s 
fee of Robert [vecte Roger] de Stuteville, who had three daughters, 
Alice the eldest, Agnes the middle one, and Beatrice the younger 
one ; Isabel wife of Robert de Somerville and John de Greystoke 
were the heirs of Alice ; Roger de Coleville son and heir of Beatrice 
gave his share to Alice his sister, whose daughter and heir Maud 
was married to William de St. Quintin ; Agnes gave her share to 
her younger son Alexander de Hasthorp ;4 and it was adjudged 
that William de St. Quintin and Maud his wife should recover 
seisin of certain interests of which the heirs of Alice had disseised 
them? 


fe (4) Isabel, who married Robert de Cramaville and died 
without issue in the period 1199-1203. Her husband was an 
extensive benefactor to Fountains and Byland abbeys and St. 
Peter’s, York, of land in Sleningford, which he had inherited as 
a tenure of the Mowbrays who held it of the fee of the archbishop 
of York ; some of his charters were issued for the soul of Isabel 
his wife, and one of them for that of Roger de Stuteville (evidently 
ner father).® 


(5) Gundreda, who was the mother’? of two daughters 
Rohese and Agnes. Rohese was married by 1199 to Robert de 


1 An original charter of the second earl, 1121-31, recording his con- 
firmation to Lewes priory of the gift of the church of Weston [Colville] 
made by Stephen his chaplain is pd. in £.Y.C., viii, no. 18 (plate viii). No 
charter of Anselm de Stuteville relating to Weston appears to be entered 
in the Lewes Chartulary. | 

2 Curia Regis Rolls, ii, 231. The Warenne interest in Weston Colville 
dated back to the Domesday survey, when William de Warenne I held a 
manor of 7 hides there; an additional 14 hides formed a member of the 
honour of Richmond (Feudal Cambridgeshive, p. 115; and E.Y.C., v, 51). 

0 ALICE, ab, 406. 

+ Evidently identical with Alexander de St. Quintin. 

5 Abbr. Platt. p. 222. 

6 Fountains Chartulary, ii, 646-52. 

7 Her husband was probably Sir John de Basingham. He is so given 
in a MS. account of Anselm de Stuteville’s heirs (Documents at Burton Agnes, 
ut sup., p. 97), which must be used, however, with some caution ; and also 
in the heading to the St. Quintin pedigree in Glover’s Visitation, ed. Foster, 
p. 162. 


34 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Tateshale (see above); and in 1213 Robert de Insula gave 100i. 
for having her, then widow of Robert de Tateshale, to wife with 
her inheritance and her dower from her first husband’s tenements. 
It seems reasonably certain that Agnes married as her first 
husband Robert de Basingham, mentioned in 1202 and 1212 in 
the disputes over Anselm de Stuteville’s inheritance ; in 1219 
she was the wife of William son of Warin (see above). 


$4. 
THE STUTEVILLES OF COWESBY AND GRESSENHALL 


Apart from other evidence the fact that the Foliot family, 
heirs of the Stutevilles of Gressenhall, also had an interest in 
Cowesby is a proof that the Stutevilles of Cowesby were the 
same branch of the family as those of Gressenhall. | 

In the comprehensive list of benefactions to Rievaulx 
abbey confirmed by Edward III, there are mentioned a gift 
which Osmund de Stuteville made of facilities in Cowesby, re- 
ferring to a road which the monks made in the time of his father 
at the east of the vill leading up the hill ; and also the confirmation 
which William de Stuteville made of this gift of Osmund his 
brother.2, This shows that Osmund’s father had an interest in 
Cowesby. It can scarcely be supposed that Robert de Stuteville 
II held any such interest ; but it is known that his son Robert III 
had an interest there in view of his controversy with the bishop 
of Durham about the chapel. Robert III had a son named 
Osmund ;4 and it can therefore be suggested that Osmund de 
Stuteville of Cowesby was this younger son of Robert de Stute- 
ville III, his gift to Rievaulx being confirmed by his brother 
William, the latter’s eldest son and heir; and further that he 
was enfeoffed of lands by his father, being the Osmund de Stute- 
ville who held two-thirds of a knight’s fee of Robert de Stuteville 
III in 1166.2 A date c. 1140-45 for his birth would be consistent 
with the fact that he died on crusade at Joppa, probably in August 
1192.6 In 1189-92 he issued a notification that his own controversy 
_ with the bishop of Durham about the chapel of Cowesby had been 
settled.?, He married Isabel the heiress of the family descended 
from Wimar, the Domesday tenant of William de Warenne in 
Gressenhall, Norfolk. With her assent he confirmed to Castle 
Acre priory all the gifts made by Wimar and his successors.® After 
his death and not later than 1194 Isabel his widow married 
William de Huntingfield. 

1 Rot. de Fin., p. 487. 

2 Rievaulz Chartulary, pp. 290-1, from Pat. Roll 6 Edw. III, pt. 2, m. 23. 

3 Charter no. 14. + See p. 7 above. > See Chapter IV, §4. 

© Gesta Henrici et Ricarvdi, Rolls Ser., ii, 150. 7 Charter no. 71. 

8 H.K.F., iii, 396 for an account of Wimar and his descendants. 

2 Mon. Ang., V, 92. 

10 Rot. Cur. Regis, i, 25. An account of William de Huntingfield, who 
was one of the Magna Carta barons and died in 1220, is given in Complete 
Peerage, new ed., vi, 671. Isabel is stated to have died in 1209 (ibid.). Des- 


cribed as Isabel de Gressenhall she issued a charter to Castle Acre priory 
with the assent of William de Huntingfield, her husband (Mon. Ang., v, 52). 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 35 


A dispute which arose over her dower from the lands of 
Osmund de Stuteville, her former husband, was in progress in 
1199, when she and William de Huntingfield were plaintiffs 
against William de Stuteville, the case being postponed by the 
king’s writ in virtue of the custody of the counties of Cumberland 
and Northumberland and the castles committed to the latter.? 
The reference identifies the defendant as William de Stuteville, 
son of Robert de Stuteville III, the head of the main English 
line of the family, who as suggested above was Osmund’s elder 
brother ; and it suggests that Osmund’s heir was then under age 
and in the wardship of William. In 1200 the case between William 
de Stuteville and Isabel, described as Isabel de Gressenhall, for 
her dower which she sought in Cowesby, was again respited ; 
and later in the year William de Huntingfield and William de 
Stuteville made an agreement for the dower of Isabel, the former’s 
wife, by which the vill of Cowesby was assigned to her from the 
lands of Osmund, her former husband, with an adjustment should 
it be more or less than a third of his lands.2. In 1202 a final 
concord was levied relating to Isabel’s dower from Osmund de 
Stuteville’s holdings in Brantingham, Riplingham, [?] Newbald, 
Stillingfleet, Newsham [par. Kirby Wiske], Cowesby, Kepwick 
and [East] Ness, by which she quitclaimed all her right therein 
to William de Stuteville, who gave her for her life in the name 
of dower all his demesne of Cowesby and 184 bovates of land 
held in villeinage there, and a third of the service of Robert de 
Newesum who was holding a third of a knight’s fee.® 

There is evidence that Osmund had a son named John, 
perhaps a son by an earlier marriage.t A younger Osmund may 
also have been his son. The son, however, who occurs as the 
successor of Osmund and Isabel was William. 

William de Stuteville occurs as a knight of earl de Warenne 
in 1216 ;§ and on 8 May 1229 he was granted a yearly fair and a 
weekly market at his manor of Gressenhall.? As William de 
Stuteville of Cowesby he was a benefactor of Rievaulx abbey ;8 
and as William son of Osmund de Stuteville he confirmed to 

1 Rot. Cur. Regis, i, pp. 344, 382. 

2 Curia Regis Rolls, i, pp. 130, 285. 

3 Yorks. Fines, John, p. 57. It is possible that in this reference William 
was her son, making a new arrangement when he came of age. 

* In G. de la Morandiére, Hist. de la maison d’Estouteville (see p. 41n 
below), p. 66, there is a reference, with no source cited, to letters patent, 
issued by John son of Osmund de Stuteville at the camp before Acre on the 
morrow of Whitsunday 1191, saying that he had borrowed 100/21. of silver 
from some citizens of Pisa, a guarantee being made by king Richard I on 
account of A. his god-daughter (filleule), John’s wife, to force Osmund de 
nena John’s father, who had disinherited him, to pay the sum in 

erault. 

> An Osmund de Stuteville occurs on 28 Sept. 1216 (Rot. Pat., p. 198a), 
and with interests in Norfolk and Essex on 28 March 1216 (Rot. Claus., 
i, 256b), and in Norfolk and Suffolk on 11 Oct. 1216 (ibid., p. 290b). 

° H.K.F., ii, pp. 397-8, where there is an account of him. He must 
not, however, be identified with William de Stuteville of Stratfield Saye, 


who was a member of the Norman line of the family (see $7). 
7 Cal. Chart. Roils, 1226-57, p. 95. 8 Rievaulx Chartulary, p. 267. 


36 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Fountains abbey the gift of half a carucate of land in Newsham, 
par. Kirby Wiske.1 In Stillingfleet, with other lords of the 
vill, he gave 24 acres of waste to archbishop Gray.? He was pro- 
bably the William de Stuteville who was appointed sheriff of 
Yorkshire on 8 May 1229, holding) office to 11 July 1232.3 In 
Jan. 1256-7 he confirmed to Castle Acre priory all the gifts and 
confirmations of Osmund de Stuteville his father, Isabel his 
mother, and his other ancestors or his men of the honour of 
Gressenhall.4 

Although a complete proof is lacking, it is highly probable 
that William de Stuteville of Gressenhall and Cowesby can be 
identified with the William de Stuteville to whom on 5 Nov. 
1219° the king gave in marriage Margery, daughter and heir of 
Hugh de Say and widow of Hugh de Ferrers and Robert de 
Mortimer, obtaining in her right the honour of Richard’s Castle 

which he held until his death in 1259.8 They were certainly con- 
temporaries, the former dying in the period 1257-65. Both had 
a son named Robert ;7 and William de Stuteville of Richard’s 
Castle had a son who was significantly named Osmund.® 

At the death of William de Stuteville of Richard’s Castle 
shortly before 20 May 1259 his wife’s heir was her son Hugh de 
Mortimer. William de Stuteville of Gressenhall was succeeded 
by his son Robert, who was in possession of Gressenhall in 1265.1° 

In 1270 Robert, described as Robert de Estoteuill’, lord of 

Cowesby, son of William de Estoteuill’, released to Fountains 
abbey his right in land and rent in Newsham, par. Kirby Wiske,! 
where, as noted above, his father had possessed an interest ; and 
on 10 July 1273, described as Robert son of William de Stuteville 
of Gressenhall, for the health of his soul and that of Joan his wife, 
he confirmed to Wendling abbey lands in Gressenhall and else- 
where.!2 He can therefore be identified with the Robert son of 

1 Charter no. 74. 2 Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1226-57, p. 387. 

3 Pat. Rolls, 1225-32, pp. 248, 489. 

* Castle Acre Chartulary, Harl.-MS. 2110, 4, 34° (old f. 28). 

5 Rot. Claus., 1, 407b. 

6 Eyton, Shropshire, iv, pp. 310-16, where there is a detailed account of 
William de Stuteville’s tenure of the honour of Richard’s Castle. Eyton 
was cautious about William’s origin, being unable to substantiate the 
statement, which he did not question, as given by Banks (evidently derived 
from Dugdale, Baronage, i, 458), that William’s father was named Osmund. 
The identity of the two Williams was accepted by G. A. Carthew in 
Hundred of Launditch, i, 195, and by Farrer in H.K.F., iii, 397. For 
Margery’s marriages see also Complete Peerage, new ed., ix, 261; William 
de Stuteville gave two palfreys for his marriage to her. 

i For Robert son of William de Stuteville [of Richard’s Castle] see 
the references in H.K.F., iii, 398 ; and Complete Peerage, ut sup., p. 261n. 

8 A son of William, who as one of the barons of the March delivered 
hostages in June 1233, was named Osmund (Close Rolls, 1231-34, p. 313). 

9 Cal. Ing. p.m., i, no. 439. 

10 Carthew, Hundred of Launditch, i, pp. 115, 190. 

11 Charter no. 75. He is possibly the Robert de Stuteville who issued 
a charter to Rievaulx relating to 4 car. in Cowesby and a car. in Kepwick 
(Rievaulx Chartulary, p. 267). 

12 Mon. Ang., vi, 890; and Sir Christopher Hatton’s Book of Seals, 
no, 38, facsimile of the original. 


Pe ee 


THE STUTEVILLE (FAMILIES 37 


William de Stuteville, who in January 1262-3 with Joan his 
wife was given a quitclaim of a moiety of the manor of [East] 
Ness by another Robert de Stuteville.1 Just about that time 
there was living a Robert de Stuteville as the husband of Joan 
daughter and heir of William Talbot, having an interest in the 
manor of Gainsborough ; but the balance of evidence suggests 
that this was the head of the Norman branch of the family, who 
certainly had a first wife named Joan.? 

Robert de Stuteville of Cowesby and Gressenhall died 
betore 20 Aug. 1275, his heir being his nephew Jordan Foliot ; 
and it was found that he held mothine im’ chief at ins death? 
Jordan Foliot was the son and heir of Richard Foliot of Fenwick 
and Norton, par. Campsall, by a sister and in her issue heir 
of Robert de Stuteville; and he succeeded his uncle both in 
Gressenhall and Cowesby.4 In 1282 he held of Baldwin Wake 
2 knights’ fees pertaining to the Stuteville manor of Buttercrambe 
in Cowesby, [East] Ness, Stillingfleet, Ripliingham, and Branting- 
ham ;> and at his death in 1299 he held the manor of Gressenhall 
of earl de Warenne by the service of 84 knights’ fees. 


§5. 


PEE STLULEVILLES OF CREAT AY EON AND 
HEMLINGTON 


This branch descended from a Robert de Stuteville who 
died between 1208 and 1219. It is probable that he was Robert, 
‘a younger son of Robert de Stuteville III ;’ but no proof appears 
to be available. At Michaelmas 1206 Robert de Muschans (or 
Muscampis) owed 5 marks for having a writ corvam rege against 
Robert de Stuteville for 6 carucates in [Great] Ayton and 4 
carucates in Hemlington [par. Stainton] as his right and inheri- 
tance. William de Stuteville, eldest son of Robert de Stuteville 
III, held interests in both places at his death in 1203.9 The former 
place was partly a member of the Meinil fee, and the latter a 
member of the honour of Chester.!° 

Robert de Stuteville gave to Guisborough priory a carucate 
of land in Ayton, which Nicholas son of Osbert de Aton held of 
him, with. the latter’s homage and service, namely a pound of 
pepper yearly ;4 and also a moiety of the pasture and moor 
belonging to Ayton in the moor of Blachou, and a moiety of the 

1 Yorks. Fines, 1246-72, p. 127. The latter Robert may have been 
Robert de Stuteville of Great Ayton and Hemlington ; see §5. There is a 
reference to Robert son of William de Stuteville and Joan his wife in 
Yorkshire in 1262 (Exc. e Rot. Fin., i, 385). 

42 -See sy. 2 Cal. Ing: p.m., UW, no. 133. 

* Complete Peerage, new ed., v, 538, where there is a full account of 
Jordan Folot and his descendants. 

5 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439. Osmund de Stuteville had held interests 
in all these places (see above). 

© fbid., ii, no. 535. a See p. 7 ‘above, 

® Pipe Roll 8 John, p. 209; Rot. de Fin,, p. 356. 

* Pipe Roll 5 fohn, p. 222; and see charter no. 28 below. 

te EY sC.., 1 pps L9G, 30S. 11 Guisborough Chartulary, ii, no. 693. 


38 STUTEVILLE FEE 


wood of Golstaindale! which fell to him in the division of bounds 
formerly made between him and Richard Malebisse.2 He also 
manumitted and quitclaimed to the priory a villein with his 
sequel for 2 marks of silver which the canons gave him.? 

Robert de Stuteville married Emma daughter of Richard 
Malebisse after the death of her first husband Robert de Meinil, 
who died shortly before 30 Jan. 1206-7.4 In 1207 Robert de 
Stuteville and Richard Malebisse, having made a fine of 300 
marks for the marriage of Richard’s daughter, gave 3 palfreys 
for paying the money in two instalments. In 1208 Emma wife 
of Robert de Stuteville put her husband in her place in a plea 
of dower against Robert de Ros.* In 1218-19 as widow of Robert 
de Stuteville she brought a writ of dower against Brian de Insula 
for a third of the vill of Nidd.? In her widowhood, described as 
daughter of Richard Malebisse she quitclaimed to Guisborough 
priory her right by way of dower or maritagium in the moor, 
pasture and wood belonging to the vill of Ayton which Robert 
de Stuteville her husband and John Malebisse her brother had 
given.® 

On ‘his death in or before 1218 Robert de Stuteville: was 
succeeded by his son Robert, who confirmed to Guisborough 
priory his father’s gift of moorland in the moor of Blachou.® 
It was evidently Robert de Stuteville, the son, who in September 
1246 quitclaimed to the chapter of Ripon all right in the advowson 
of the church or chapel of Nidd ;!° and who in 1252 was permitted 
to have a gallows in his manor of Ayton as he and his ancestors 
had from: the timevof Richard: 1 . On 48 Peb:; 1252-3 he-and 
his heirs were granted free warren in his demesne lands in the 
manors of Ayton, Hemlington, Tunstall!® and Nidd, and a market 


1 For the identification of this place see zbid., p. 61n. 

2 Ibid., no. 694. A precisely similar charter was issued by John 
Malebisse, referring to Sir Richard Malebisse his father and to Sir Robert 
de Stuteville (2b7d., no. 689). 

3 Ibid., no. 696. This was confirmed by his son Robert (zbzd., no. 697). 

* Ibid., no. 695 ; Pipe Roll 9 John, p.69. For Robert de Meinil (the third) 
see Complete Peerage, new ed., viii, pp. 621-2. 

> Rot. de Fin., p. 384. For the possibility that he had a first wife and 
a daughter Mabel, wife of Richard de Bossall II, see Chapter IV, §10. 

° Curia Regis Rolls, v. 316. 

1. Rolts of the Justices ... . Yorks., Selden Soc., nos. 64, 208, 1131. 
Brian de Insula, it was reported, had set out for Jerusalem on pilgrimage ; 
Emma said that she had all her dower from her husband’s tenement else- 
where. Nidd was a member of the honour of Knaresborough, held by 
William de Stuteville until his death in 1203 ; if, as seems probable, William 
had enfeoffed Robert de Stuteville, this may be an additional indication 
that they were closely related. 

8 Guisborough Chartulary, no. 695. This charter shows that Emma had 
brought to Robert de Stuteville a part of the interest which the Malebisse 
family held in Ayton. This interest lay in Little Ayton, held of the Malet 
fee (E.Y.C., iii, pp. 455, 457 ; V.C.H. Yorks., N.R., ii, 227). For a pedigree 
of the Malebisse family see £.Y.C., ui, p. 456. 

9° Guisborough Chartulary, no. 698. 

10 Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 163. 
11 Close Rolls, 1251-53, p. 169. 
12 A hamlet in Nunthorpe, par. Great Ayton. 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 39 


and fair at Ayton! In August 1264 and again in December, 
described as Robert de Stuteville of Ayton, he was among those 
of the northern parts who had been ordered to come to the king’s 
aid and to discuss matters with him, and had put off doing so ; 
and to whom a safe conduct to the king was issued on 17 Jan. 
1264-5. In May 1266 he was one of three named to bring Baldwin 
Wake and his household to the king to treat of his peace.2 He 
was living on 30 June 1267 ;* and was succeeded by William de 
Stuteville, presumably his son or brother.® 

Wilham de Stuteville, described as of Ayton in Cleveland, 
issued a charter to Whitby abbey, quitclaiming all right in the 
advowson of the church of [Great] Ayton and lands belonging 
thereto, and in all the lands which the abbey held in the vill; 
quitclaiming also suit at the court of Ayton and to the mill of 
Ayton therefor; confirming pasture for eight oxen and four 
horses and other easements in the vill; quitclaiming all right 
in certain pieces of land about which he had impleaded the abbot 
and convent by a writ of novel disseisin before Sir Richard de 
Middleton, then king’s justice, assigned to take the case at 
Coxwold ; and granting other facilities for the abbey’s manor in 
Ayton.® The date given in the text of the document is 6 July 
1265 ; but it can be suggested that this is a mistake, possibly for 
1275.7 

It seems clear that William de Stuteville died shortly after- 
wards without an heir, and that the manor of Great Ayton es- 
cheated to Baldwin Wake, who was seised of it in demesne at 
his death, when on 23 March 1281-2 a detailed extent was made, 
showing that he held it of Sir Nicholas de Meinil for half a knight’s 
fee, no mention being made of William de Stuteville among the 
holders of lands ; the extent adds that the lady of Hemlington 
held the manor of Hemlington and 12s. 2d. yearly rent in Ayton 
in dower from the lands of Robert de Stuteville, formerly her 
husband, valued at 21. yearly ; and that the abbot of Whitby 
held the church of [Great] Ayton to his own uses.’ 

It is not unlikely that the John de Stuteville, described as 
an uncle of Nicholas de Meinil in 1276, was a younger son of the 
first Robert de Stuteville of Ayton, his relationship (as half-uncle) 
being due to the fact that in that case his mother would have 


1 Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1226-57, p. 419. 

2 Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1258-66, pp. 364, 398, 400. 

3 1btd:;- p. 398. 

4 Tbid:, 1266-72, p. 79. 

: Probably his son. It is likely that he had a brother Nicholas who 
occurs as brother of a Robert de Stuteville in the period 1220-41 a tai 
nos. 56, 57, 59) ; and perhaps a brother John (see below). 

: Whitby Chartulary, ii, no. 416. 

7 The fact that Robert de Stuteville was living in 1267 invites suspicion. 
The reference to Middleton suggests that he was not still a king’s justice 
when the document was issued. Middleton was a justice from 1262 to 1269, 
and then keeper of the Great Seal and Chancellor till his death in 1272 
(Foss, Judges, 11, 408). Moreover, Sir Nicholas de Meinil, the first witness, 
succeeded his father in 1268 or 1269 (Complete Peerage, new ed., viii, 625). 

8 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439 ; and Yorks. Inq., i, no. 131 in greater detail. 


40 STUTEVILLE FEE 
been the widow of Robert de Meinil, Nicholas’s grandfather.? 


$6. 
A YOUNGER BRANCH OF COTTINGHAM 


A younger line of the Stutevilles was described as of Cotting- 
ham in several references in the fourteenth century. In 1334-35 
Robert de Stuteville granted to Hugh Wake in frank-marriage 
with his daughter Isabel all his lands and tenements in Cottingham 
and Rowley, a witness being Thomas Wake, lord of Liddel ;? and 
on 12 Sept. 13385 a-deed refers to John de Stuteville, rector of 
Houwelle {[Howell, co. Lincoln] and his brothers Nicholas and 
Robert and their sister dame Isabel Wake in connexion with 
lands in Cottingham, Braithwaite and Hull Bank.? In 1307 Robert 
de Stuteville the elder had released to Robert de Stuteville the 
younger all his right in lands in Cottingham and Braithwaite ;4 
and in 1328 a settlement was made of lands in those places and 
in Hull Bank between Robert de Stuteville of Cottingham the 
elder and Margaret his wife and Robert de Stuteville the younger, 
life interests being reserved for Milisent,5 Lora and Isabel, daugh- 
ters of Robert the elder.® 

The earlier descent of this line is obscure; and the only 
clue—which is far from affording any proof—seems to be a deed 
of 1242-43 by which a certain Walter de Hedun released to 
Nicholas son of Robert de Stuteville his right in the service of a 
tenement in Newton, par. Cottingham, formerly held of Sir 
Eustace de Stuteville and Robert his son and afterwards of the 
said Walter.” It is probable that this Sir Eustace was a younger 
brother of William de Stuteville the judge and so an uncle of 
Nicholas de Stuteville II, who in 1233 was ordered to restore 
land which had belonged to Eustace de Stuteville, his uncle, to 
Robert, the latter’s son and heir.6 The deed of 1242-43 suggests 
that this Robert had then been succeeded by Nicholas his son ; 
but no proof is available that Nicholas was the father or ancestor 
of Robert de Stuteville mentioned above, who was possessed of 
land in Cottingham in 1307. A Robert de Stuteville of Cottingham 
Occitan 12797 


1 Guisborough Chartulary, i, 76n, giving a transcript of proceedings, 
showing that Nicholas de Meinil had endeavoured to pass off on his ward 
Robert Guer or le Gower an illegitimate dau. of John de Stuteville his 
‘uncle ; cited in Complete Peerage, new ed., viii, 625, and see p. 624”. The 
Meinil connexion suggests that this is the same John de Stuteville who, 
described as a knight, witnessed a charter of Stephen de Meinil to the 
priory of Healaugh Park, the first witness being a Sir Robert de Stuteville 
(Healaugh Park Chartulary, p. 70). 

* MS Dodsworth Ixviii, f. 9Y, given in Guisborough Chartulary, ii, 63n. 

§ Yorks. Deeds, i, no. 150. + Tbid., no. 149. 

> She married John de Momby and was living in 1345 (Yorks. Fines, 
1327-47, p. 180). 

© POid. pe hd 

? ist. MSs. Conuur,, #2. 2, di@siiigs, i, bS9; 

8 See p. 20 above ; the land lying in Yorkshire. 

> Cal. Ing., P.m., ii; 10,333, 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 4] 


7. 
THE EARLY GENERATIONS OF THE NORMAN LINE 


The main Norman line of the family, lords of Valmont,! 
descended from Nicholas d’Estouteville, who heads the ensuing 
account. Although documentary evidence is not available, there 
is no reason to doubt his descent from Robert de Stuteville I. 
It is significant that at the Domesday survey Hugh son of Baldric, 
the predecessor of Robert de Stuteville I in a large number of 
holdings in Yorkshire, held tenancies-in-chief in Stratfield—later 
Stratfield Stuteville and subsequently Stratfield Saye—and 
Church Oakley in Hampshire ;? and of these the former was held 
later by Nicholas d’Estouteville of Valmont, and an interest in 
both was held by John d’Estouteville his great-grandson, as is 
shown by the details given below. 


The chronological evidence suggests that Nicholas and 
Robert de Stuteville III were of the same generation, and that 
they were both born in the first twenty years of the twelfth century. 
It is reasonably probable that Nicholas was the eldest son of 
Robert II.2 It has been suggested that he was the son of a first 
wife, and that Erneburga, Robert III’s mother, was a second 


1 Dept. Seine-Inf., arr. Yvetot, cant. Valmont. The castle and abbey, 
well known to visitors to Normandy, incurred no serious damage in the 
recent war. 


2 D.B., i, 48. By a charter c. 1080 William the Conqueror confirmed 
to the abbey of Préaux, dio. Lisieux, the tithe of Stratfield which Hugh 
son of Baldric had given (Cal. Docs. France, no. 318). 


3 Nicholas is given as the eldest son of Robert II, son of Robert I, in 
the account of the Norman lines by Pére Anselme in Histotve généalogique 
... de France, viii, 88 ; this is based almost entirely on French sources and 
no references to their English lands are given. The same descent is given 
by G. de la Morandiére in Histoire de la maison da’ Estouteville en Normandie 
(Paris, 1903), p. 653. This book gives constant references to the English 
lines and English sources, but the distinction between the Norman and 
English lines is far from clear; there are several useful citations from 
‘Archives de Valmont’, though the original texts unfortunately are not 
given. Some of these are given in G. A. de La Roque, Histoire généalogique 
de la maison de Harcourt (Paris, 1662), vol. iv, additions and corrections, 
unnumbered pp. 22-3. My acknowledgements are due, especially for the 
references from the last two works and several others bearing on the early 
descent of the Norman family, to the late Mr. L. C. Loyd with whom I 
was engaged shortly before his death in 1947 in endeavouring to disentangle 
some of the confusions between the Norman and English lines—confusions 
which are made complex by the recurrence of the christian names of Robert 
and Nicholas in branches of both of them. Since this section was compiled 
my attention was drawn to Sir George Sitwell’s Tales of my native village 
(1933), which contains a detailed account of the descent of the lords of 
Valmont and in particular of their connexion with the village of Eckington, 
based both on English and Norman sources, though documentary references 
are not often given ; there is a vivid account of Valmont and its district, 
with a description of the family tombs which existed or still exist in the 
abbey, and an illustration of the castle and abbey from a coloured drawing 
made in 1702 ; an interesting chapter deals with a second John d’Estouteville 
who was rector of a moiety of Eckington from 1312 to 1337. 


STUTEVILLE FEE 


42 


V 


| 
IIE] 98e Iapun 


LISI “4 | CSISI (9°q souey pue JuOUTTeA jo 
me pics: ATTIADTLNOISY,a eres 
Coe /P 
PSZI 9 “q 
spurl ysisuq FOS auy *p 
SZE1 °P oy} pezaoeyur seqonborig ep C$8ZI “wa 
ae: N e107T = i ih pueliyiog ZIV= ATIMATLAOLSY,a bo ang 
SSSI OLG1 tél “PB OLS “P 
weypod usnoy Jo upyore pue uouro S061 ‘P Z8ol°P toed ep 9081 “P 
jo Ajo1oul CCSI W04SULYOA fo Ayorour JO oa: STq® + ul UOVIC A Age) W0VSULOA FO IOPUCXO[V fo MO PIM SOUTEYY pue JUOTH[L A fO PLS "2 “Dp 
Olly uyof 1o4seur = snyjn3is WITT ITAA, ‘oInoUdx) Op IOUI[A = ATTIATLINOISY,d LUaGoy— ueofl 


| | ca | (Z) ees ci, 
unqd-neszeyy Jo 


O}UIOSTA AQIJZOO+) SSZI ‘snV SI 'P 
jo iIo4sis [¢] souley pure JUOUT[e A JO 
SnoIg 9p 19}0g =]Eeqes] }IIqOYy sousy = ATIIAALNOISY,d NHO[ 


| | | 
8331 Ur peop 


Aquny) Ur 4se1o}ut ny FO yuNoD 9E-83S1 “P 
VV Vv weypoq <AiuoP{ JO MOPIM CGLl 2 (we 
| 99Z1 ‘P TTtA9}01g | Ul Fy F «© ‘urypoureyy [reo soulvy pue JUOTITe\ FO 
esstueq¢@= - uyol op WINqGOYy ae UCIT AA, jo ‘nep pney, = ATTIATINOIS7,a oe 
| lies 
V qTAUSID Op | LPSI Surat 
| sepoog = wourls (7) ‘wi | Aojiequityy fo 
A€S OP JIOGOY =ool[y = op sey oOITY ==  SvlOqoIn 
(|) ep) | O1-CIZi “Pp 
SOS Surat OSI suv “q S8IT Ur peop 
-We}9}S9AA, IO S6L] SurAry AT Aeuinos ‘en aanl SOuleY Op ZIapy pue ‘¥n aAnl souleyy JO pue 
,U0}S9M, Ul PUP] PIPUFETS Fo op ysny Asjiequiryy Jo Arnqsiyes jo preMpy yuUOUTTeA FO 
SPULOY preyony = WETTIM jo ‘nep eAIpy = vee jo ‘nep eu0syt = ATITATLNOISY,a fra 
| dl 
LEU P 
Aeyny,p uepiof jo gg] Aeqqe oy} fo rapunoy 
MOPIM ‘OTBOSOTO+) yUOTWTe A jo 


jo ‘nep euennt = FTMAALNOLSY,d SVWIOHOIN = 


(2) Ce] (tLe 


THE SITUTEVILLE PAMILIES 43 


wife. However that may be, the facts that Nicholas’s only 
apparent inheritance in England was in Hampshire, and that 
neither he nor his descendants appear to have made any claim 
to the bulk of the English possessions of Robert I, which were 
claimed certainly with some success by Robert III and his son 
Wiliam, are not inconsistent with the practice, of which other 
examples could be given, of the elder son inheriting the Norman 
property with a small holding in England, and of the younger 
being allotted an interest in the greater part of the English lands. 

In addition to the lands in Hampshire the Norman line 
acquired important holdings in England through the marriage 
of Robert son and heir of Nicholas with Leonia daughter of 
Edward of Salisbury. These English lands passed by inheritance 
until shortly before the outbreak of the Hundred Years war. 
Their confiscation, during the periods when the two countries 
were actually at war, was of a temporary character; and the 
family affords an unusual example of important lands on both 
sides of the Channel passing by inheritance to so late a date. It 
will be seen that the inheritance acquired by the marriage of 
Robert d’Estouteville to Leonia included the honour of Rames 
in Normandy as well as 15 knights’ fees and other interests in 
England ; and that extensive interests in Northumberland were 
acquired by a marriage of their great-grandson Robert d’Estoute- 
ville of Valmont and Rames. 


NICHOLAS D EsTouTevirnE. In the period’ 1151-53 he 
_ witnessed a charter of duke Henry at Rouen.2~ At Michaelmas 
1156 his name occurs on the Pipe Roll for Hampshire, a sum of 
33s. probably representing a remission of his danegeld, and one 
of 16s. perhaps in respect of lands given to him.? At Michaelmas 
1158 the sheriff of Hampshire was allowed 20s. for lands given 
to him in Stratfeld’ [mod. Stratfield Saye]; and a payment of 
204. to him on the London roll, and pardons of 9s. 9d. in Hamp- 
shire and 9s. in Gloucestershire are recorded.4 At the same term 
the sheriff of Somerset was allowed 40s. for lands given to him in 
the hundred of Norton ;? and the entry is repeated on successive 
rolls down to Michaelmas 1179.6 At Michaelmas 1175 he was in 
possession of Stratfield ; and again in the following year, when 
in the same entry William d’Estouteville was pardoned a mark.’ 

In Normandy at Valmont, the caput of his honour there, 


1 G. de la Morandiére, op. cit., p. 31, gives the first wife as Jeanne 
Talbot ; but no documentary evidence is cited, and it can be noticed that 
there was a Joan daughter of William Talbot and wife of a Robert de 
Stuteville in the middle of the thirteenth century (see p. 59 below). 

2 Delisle et Berger, Actes de Henri II, i, no. 37*. Delisle gives a notice 
of him in his Intvoduction, p. 407 ; but the identity with Nicholas who held 
the castle of Liddel, Cumberland, cannot be accepted ; the latter was the 
second son of Robert de Stuteville III of the English line. 

2 Pipe Mou. ben. 1l, pi. do. 

4 loud. 4 Hen. 11, pp. 113, 169, 171-2. > Lbid.. 1 2A. 

6 Ibid. 25 Hen. II, p. 67, and the intervening rolls. At Mich. 1165 he 
was pardoned 15s. 3d. in Dorset (ibid. 11 Hen. II, p. 66). 

1 Ibid. 20 Hen, 11, p. 195; 22 Hen. JI, p. VOr. 


44 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Nicholas d’Estouteville founded a Benedictine abbey in 1169.1 
His foundation charter, mentioning Juliana his wife and issued 
with the consent of Robert his son and heir, included his gifts. of 
the site of the abbey, land and mills in Valmont and other places 
in the canton of Valmont, together with three churches, and in 
England the church of Stratfield (£stredfled) with the hermitage 
of St. Leonard.? These gifts and gifts made by Juliana his wife 
and his four sons Robert, Nicholas, William and Richard are 
included in a confirmation charter issued to the abbey by king 
Henry II, 1181-83 ;3 and additional gifts made by his sons in a 
subsequent confirmation issued by the king.4 

A clue to the parentage of Juliana his wife is given by the 
references to his holding in the hundred of Norton, Somerset, 
noted above. Between 1121 and 1135 king Henry I gave to 
Jordan d’Auffay a wife named Juliana daughter of Golescalc, 
who had come with queen Adeliza from the territory of Louvain 
to England > and in a return of 1212 it°is stated that the same 
king had given Norton® with the hundred to Jordan d’Auffay in 
marriage with a certain Juliana.” At Michaelmas 1180 the 40s. 
worth of land in the hundred of Norton, which as the preceding 
rolls show had been in the possession of Nicholas d’Estouteville 
from 1158, was in the possession of Richard d’Auffay.® It can 
therefore be deduced that after the death of Jordan d’Auffay 
Juliana daughter of Golescale married Nicholas, who held Norton 
for his life in her right, and that on his death it passed by inheri- 
tance to Richard d’Auffay, her son by her first husband. In the 
first of king Henry II’s confirmations to the abbey of Valmont, 
1181-83, noted above, there were included a gift of Juliana wife 
of Nicholas d’Estouteville of 100s. of land at Norwich ‘de primo 
maritagio suo’, and a confirmation by Richard d’Auffay and 
John his son of a mill at Gouzeville® which had been given by 
Nicholas d’Estouteville and Juliana his wife. 

Nicholas d’Estouteville occurs as a frequent witness to 
charters of king Henry II, some issued at Westminster, 1155-5819 
and some issued in Normandy subsequently." In 1162 he was 
present with the king at Fécamp at the ceremony of the translation 


1 Chron. St. Taurin, Evreux, and Chron. Fécamp in Recueil des 
Hist. de la France, xii, pp. 777-8 ; cf. the references in Cottineau, R épertoire 
.. +. Ges Abbayes et Pricurés, ii, 3289. 

2 Text in A. du Monstier, Neustria Pia, p. 871 ; and a less satisfactory 
.text in La Roque, Maison de Harcourt, iv, add. et corr., unnumbered p. 22. 

3 Delisle et Berger, Actes de Henri IT, ii, no. 636. 

*Totd,, No. 729. 

> Ovderic, iii, 47 ; ‘prudentem et pulchram conjugem’. 

6 Norton Ferris, par. Kilmington, now in Wiltshire. 

7 Bk. of Fees, p. 81; and cf. p. 1265 (of date 1251-52), where Juliana 
is described as ‘de camera domini regis.’ 

8 Pipe Roll 26 Hen. II, p. 106. In the following year Richard was 
succeeded by his son John (tbid. 27 Hen. II, p. 4). 

9 Arr. Yvetot, cant. Doudeville, c. 20 kil. west of Auffay, arr. Dieppe, 
cant. T6étes, the place from which the Auffay family took its name (L. C. 
Loyd, Anglo-Norman Families, Harleian Soc., p. 8). 

10 Delisle et Berger, Actes de Henri II, i, nos. 56-8. 
11 [bid., nos. 84, 133, 223 ; ii, nos. 504, 529. 


THE STULEVILLE FAMILIES 45 


of the bodies of dukes Richard I and II ;! and in 1172 he owed 
the service of a knight for the fee of Les Loges? and ‘de Preteio’ 
and seven tenants whom he had at Fécamp.? 

It is recorded that he died in 1177.4 He was buried in the 
abbey of Valmont,®? where his obit was observed on 22 April and 
that of Juliana his wife on 5 Nov.* He had issue four sons :? 
Robert, Nicholas, William, and Richard, all of whom made gifts 
to the abbey of Valmont. Robert was his successor at Valmont ; 
and of the others : 

(2) Nicholas, the ancestor of the Stutevilles of Kimberley. 
His benefactions to the abbey of Valmont of lands in Normandy 
are included in the confirmation charters issued by king Henry 
II; and in Norfolk he acquired an interest in Kimberley and 
Bedingham. With Eidma or (evidently more correctly) Eidiva 
his wife he gave to the abbey of Valmont a rent of 15s. in their 
manor of Kimberley ;§ and he issued another charter to the abbey 
in which he mentioned Aidieve his wife and Sir Robert de Stute- 
villa, his brother. In Michaelmas term 1194 Benedict de Beding- 
ham vouched him to warranty in a case relating to the church of 
St. Mary in the churchyard of Bedingham, of which Theobald 
Walter claimed the advowson.® In 1204 he was supporting the 
king of France ; and king John committed the manors of Kim- 
berley and Bedingham which had belonged to him to William 
de Cantilupe to hold until Christmas." On 24 April 1205 the 
sheriff of Norfolk was informed that the king had subsequently 
committed these lands to Walter de Cantilupe, William’s father ;#* 
and on 28 Dec. of the same year the king made a gift of the 
vicarage of the church of Kimberley, which was in his gift as the 
land of Nicholas de Stuteville, who was against the king with 
his enemies, was in his hand.® 

He had a son Nicholas the younger. On 4 Jan. 1206-7 the 
sheriff of Norfolk was informed that the king had restored to 
Nicholas de Stuteville, nephew of Hugh de Gournay, the land of 
Bedingham and Kimberley, of which Nicholas his father had 
been disseised by reason of the disseisin of the Normans, and 

1 Delisle et Berger, Introduction, p. 407. 

2 Arr. Le Havre, cant. Fécamp. The church there was among his 
gifts to the abbey of Valmont. 

3 Rec. des Hist. de la France, xxiii, 696k. 

4 [bid., xii, 777, from Chron. St. Taurin, Evreux. 

*° The memorial tomb, now in the abbey, was placed there early in 
the sixteenth century ; the dates of the foundation and of his death, in- 
scribed below the recumbent effigy are wrongly given as 1116 and 1140 
(G. dé la Morandiére, op. ctt.; p. 32). & Tbid. 

7 For possibly another son named Thomas see p. 25” above. Chronological 
considerations suggest that Juliana may not have been the mother of his 
sons, and that she was a second wife. 

§ Original charter in Eton College MSS., Hist. MSS. Comm., 9th Rep., 
part i, app. p. 355b. 

9 Cited by Delisle in Actes de Henri II, Introduction, p. 407. 

Leo Cur. eg. i, v: 

11 Rot. Ciaus., i, 33a. There is an earlier entry giving William Estute- 


ville instead of Nicholas de Stuteville as the previous owner, evidently in 
error: 1” foid., p. Z8b. 13 Rot.-Chart., p. 160b. 


46 STUTEVILLE FEE 


was ordered to give him seisin.! In 1219 Nicholas the younger 
was the claimant against the abbot of Valmont in an assize of 
darrein presentment to the church of Kimberley. The abbot put 
forward a charter by which Nicholas de Stuteville, father of 
Nicholas, and Eidm’ [stc, ? recte Eidiu’| his wife had given the 
church to the abbey, and a charter of John bishop of Norwich 
confirming the gift made by Nicholas and Eid’ [sic] his wife. 
Nicholas stated that even if those charters were issued king John 
afterwards presented a clerk when he had the land of Nicholas 
in his custody; and he put forward the charter of king John 
making the gift of the vicarage,? and the charter of J. bishop of 
Norwich confirming this, and another which witnessed that, 
when the land of Nicholas was in the king’s hand because he 
was in Normandy with the king of France, he (the bishop) had 
given the church to John archdeacon of Worcester on the king’s 
presentation and had instituted him, saving the perpetual vicarage. 
Nicholas, therefore, in view of the king’s presentation, claimed 
the same seisin as the king’s ; and as the abbot recognized that 
the king had presented the last rector, though unjustly, it was 
adjudged that Nicholas should have his seisin, and that the 
abbot if he wished should acquire another writ.? 

The combined ‘effect of these reterences ‘shows (that. tne 
elder Nicholas married Eidiva sister of Hugh de Gournay V and 
daughter of Hugh de Gournay IV ;* and there can be no doubt 
that it was through this marriage that he acquired his interest in 
Kimberley and Bedingham.® 


t Rot. Claus., i, 75b. 

2 The charter of 28 Dec. 1205 noted above. 

3 Bracton’s Note Book, no. 39. The original roll is not extant. Maitland 
notes that on the failure of the darrein presentment the abbot could purchase 
a writ of right of advowson. He appears to have done so, as in subsequent 
terms he was engaged against Nicholas in a plea of advowson of the church 
(Curia Regis Rolls, viii, pp. 51, 134). 

* The account of the Gournay family in A. H. Cooke, Early Hist. of 
Mapledurham, Oxfordshire Rec. Soc., pp. 9, 11, shows that Hugh IV died 
c. 1180 and Hugh V was alive in 1207, when the younger Nicholas was 
described as his nephew, as noted above. It has been supposed that Kim- 
berley and Bedingham were given to Nicholas de Stuteville by Hugh de 
Gournay in marriage with Gunnora his daughter (Blomefield and Parkin, 
Norfolk, i, 749; v. 1103; and cf. D. Gurney, Rec. of the House of Gournay, 
i, 93). But there appears to be no evidence for Gunnora ; and her name 
may be the result of a confusion with Gunnora d’Aubigny, who married a 

_ different Nicholas de Stuteville, namely the second son and eventual heir 
of Robert de Stuteville III of the English line. It is likely that Eidiva 
was so named as a variant of the name of her paternal grandmother Edith 
daughter of William de Warenne, first earl of Surrey, by his wife Gundreda 
(E.Y.C., viii, 6); Hugh de Gournay IV’s mother occurs as Edwa [recte 
Ediua] in a charter of king Henry II (Delisle et Berger, Actes de Henmi II, 
i, no. 325). 

5 The Gournay tenancy-in-chief in these places descended to the 
Bardolfs (cf. Feudal Aids, iii, pp. 535, 623). It is stated in A. H. Cooke, 
Mapledurham, p. 85, that Hugh de Gournay IV gave the church of Kimberley 
to the nunnery of Clarus Rivus [Clair Ruissel], which he founded in Nor- 
mandy ; a copy of his charter in the Eton College MSS. is cited, though the 
clause is not included in the text in Mon. Ang., vi, 1088. Cf. also. Farrer 
in H.K.F., iii, 421. But such a gift evidently had no permanent effect. 


THE SPULEVILLE-: FAMILIES 47 


After the restoration to the younger Nicholas this interest 
continued in his descendants during the thirteenth century? 
Thus Nicholas de Stuteville was a party to fines, or mentioned 
as a Claimant, relating to Kimberley and Bedingham in 1234-35, 
1239-40 and 1241-422 John son of Nicholas and Simon de Gren- 
ville, husband of Alice widow of Nicholas, occur there in 1257.3 
At the time of the Barons’ war John de Stuteville possessed the 
manor and advowson of Kimberley* and land in Bedingham, and 
his land in Kimberley was seized, the rent being received by Sir 
William Bardolf.6 John was dead by 3 Oct. 1266, when Denise 
his widow was given maintenance from his land in Bedingham.® 
In 1284 and 1299 an interest in Kimberley was held by Sir 
Nicholas de Stuteville.’ 


(3) William, third son of the tounder of Valmont... In 
addition to his gifts to the abbey of land in Normandy, recorded 
in the confirmation charters of king Henry II, he gave a mark 
of land in ‘Estrafled’, which can be identified as Stratfield, 
Hampshire, the church of which with the hermitage of St. Leonard 
had been given to the abbey by his father. He can therefore be 
identified with the William d’Estouteville who occurs at Michael- 
mas 1176 in connexion with that place; and it can be deduced 
that his interest there was due to a feoffment by his father. It . 
will be seen below that Robert de Say, who married Alice de 
Stuteville, held a knight’s fee there in 1242-43 of John d’Estoute- 
ville of Valmont, the head of the senior line; and that in 1277 a 
later Robert de Say held this of Robert d’Estouteville, John’s 
son. 

There is a large collection of documents in the Eton College 
MSS. relating to the hermitage described as that of St. Leonard 
on the Loddon and St. Leonard of Stratfield*® It includes a 
confirmation, not later than 1184, by Jocelin bishop of Salisbury, 
issued at William de Stuteville’s petition,® of the latter’s gift to 
Godard and his successors at the hermitage ; the confirmation 
by Elias de Boeles and Alice his wife to the abbey of Valmont of 
the church of Stratfield and the hermitage of St. Leonard and 
all the possessions of the hermitage given by their ancestors and 


1 References are given in Blomefield and Parkin, ut sup., and also in 
Farrer, Honors and. Knights’ Fees, ii, pp. 142-3; but some of the latter, 
not relating to Kimberley, refer to the family of Nicholas de Stuteville, 
son of Robert III of the English line, who also had a son Nicholas, a natural 
source of confusion. 

2 Rye, Cal. Norfolk Feet of Fines, pp. 57, 62, 65, 68. 

3 Blomefield and Parkin, ut sup. 

4 The advowson had not been recovered by the abbot of Valmont. 

> Cal. Ing. p.m., i, nos. 907-8 ; Cal. Ing. Misc., i, no. 815. 

© Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1258-66, p. 644. 

* Toid., 1281-92, p. 149; 1bid., 1292-1301, p. 473; Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, 
no. 542. 

* Hist.. MSS. Comm., 9ih Rep., part i, app. pp. 355b-356b. These 
abstracts have been used in the account of Stratfield Saye in V.C.H. Hants., 
iv, pp. 57-8. 

° Richard de Stuteville, probably William’s brother, was the first 
witness to the petition. 


48 STUTEVILLE FEE 


others, in accordance with their charter to Godard the recluse ;! 
their confirmation to Godard of the gifts made by William de 
Stuteville, ‘the founder’,? Alice being described as ‘the heiress of 
Stratfield’ ; a gift. by Robert de Say and Alice de Stuteville his 
wife, daughter of William de Stuteville, to the monks of Stratfield 
of land in Stratfield ; a gift by William de Say of land in Stratfield 
Stuteville ; and a release by the same, described as of ‘Stratfield 
de Say’? and a knight, to the abbey of Valmont and the hermitage 
of the suit of his court, dated in 1260-61. 

These charters show that Alice was daughter and heir of 
William de Stuteville; that she married twice; and that her 
inheritance passed to her issue by her husband Robert de Say. 
She had succeeded her father not earlier than 1198, when he was 
apparently alive and in possession of Stratfield.® 


(4) Richard, fourth son of the founder of Valmont. In 
addition to his gifts to the abbey of land in the neighbourhood 
of Valmont, he gave 100s. worth of land ‘apud Weston/am]’.§ 
This gift, being described as 100s. worth of land in her vill of 
‘Westetan’, was confirmed by Leonia widow of Robert de Stute- 
ville.” As Richard the grantor’s brother he witnessed a confirma- 
tion of Robert de Stuteville to Felley priory.® 


ROBERT D’ESTOUTEVILLE, eldest son and heir of Nicholas 
d’Estouteville, to whose foundation charter to the abbey of 
Valmont in 1169 he gave his consent. Among his gifts in Nor- 
mandy to that abbey were a mill ‘apud Beverdam de honore 
ramorum’—which can be identified as the honour of Rames— 
and three churches in the canton of Saint-Romain, arr. Le Havre, 
in which Rames is situate. It was through his marriage with 
Leonia that he acquired the honour of Rames in Normandy and 
her large interests in England. 


1 Nicholas de Stuteville and Nicholas his son, evidently of Kimberley, 
were witnesses ; the date is therefore not later than 1204. 

* He was regarded as the founder in an inquisition in 1342 (Cal. Ing. 
Misc., ii, no. 1796); but the hermitage is mentioned by his father in his 
charter to Valmont. 

3 This shows the process in the change of name from Stratfield Stute- 
ville to the modern Stratfield Saye. 

4 For these descendants and their eventual representatives the 
Dabridgecourts see V.C.H., ut sup. 

> Pipe Roll 10 Ric. 1, po S77. 

® Delisle et Berger, Actes de Henvt JJ, i; no. 725 ; centum Ssolidatas 
de Sterlins.’ All the other lands confirmed by this charter of king Henry II 
were in Normandy. The text is from a copy, the original being lost. 

7 Original charter in Eton College MSS. (typed catalogue vol. xviii, no. 
6, kindly shown to me by Mr. N. Blakiston, the compiler); the abstract in 
Hist. MSS. Comm., ut sup., p. 355b, does not mention Richard or give the 
name of the place. The combined references and the place of custody of 
the original make it likely that the place was in England ; but no identifica- 
tion can yet be suggested. The charter was witnessed by Nicholas and 
Wilham de Stuteville, evidently Robert’s brothers. 

8 Felley Chartulary, B.M. Add. MS. 36872, f. 53%. The land was 
apparently in Kirkby Woodhouse (f. 46), a hamlet in Kirkby in Ashfield. 

9 Delisle et Berger, Actes de Henri II, ii, no. 636. 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 49 


In 1185, after his death, his widow was in the king’s gift, 
being described as ‘de parentela Edwardi de Salesburia ex parte 
patris, et ex parte matris est de progenie Rogeri de Reimes’ ; 
she was then holding the vill called Diham [Dedham, Essex], 
which was her inheritance, worth 24/1. yearly ; she had a son 
and two daughters, and her age was not known by the jurors. 
Her paternity is corroborated by a statement in an assize of 
darrein presentment to the church of Gunby St. Nicholas, co. 
Lincoln, in 1202 that Edward of Salisbury had a daughter Leonia 
whom Robert d’Estouteville married.2 A charter of Robert 
d’Estouteville to the abbey of Saint-Georges-de-Boscherville 
records that at the prayer of his wife Leonia he gave a rentcharge 
of 50s. on his mill on the bank of Biuredan® in exchange for a 
similar rent which Evrard de Salesberiis had given from the 
tenants at Rames.4 This proves that Edward of Salisbury 
possessed an interest in the honour of Rames ; and it 1s important 
to ascertain the name of his wife, Leonia’s mother. 


At Michaelmas 1130 William de Hoctona® rendered account 
of 200i. for the wife of Edward of Salisbury (Sar’) with her land 
for the use of Payn his son, paying 100 marks of silver as an 
instalment ; and Payn de Hoctona rendered account of 200 
marks of silver and 2 marks of gold for the same widow, paying 
5 marks of silver as an instalment. Payn duly married her and 
had issue two daughters, one of whom Maud married Robert 
Grimbald ; andina charter to Biddlesden abbey Maud de Houghton 
mentioned Robert Grimbald her husband, Payn her father, Adeliz 
de Raimes her mother, and William her grandfather.’ It can 
therefore be deduced that Edward of Salisbury married Adeliz 
de Rames, who subsequently married Payn de Houghton; and 
this to some extent conforms with the statement made in 1185 
that Leonia on her mother’s side was ‘de progenie’ of Roger 


1 Rot. de Dominabus, Pipe Roll Soc., pp. 69, 70, where there is a note 
by Round relating to her and her paternity ; he described her as still a 
mysterious personage. Edward of Salisbury was Edward the younger, and 
must not be confused with Edward of Salisbury, sheriff of Wiltshire in 
1081 and 1086, the ancestor of the earls of Salisbury (Complete Peerage, 
new ed., xi, 373). Many details about both of them are given in a paper 
by R. E. Chester Waters in Notes and Queries, 4th Ser., ix, pp. 313-5 (1872), 
but no proof is there given that they were father and son. 

2 Abbr. Placit., p. 41b (cited by Kound); also Lincs. Assize Iolls, 
Lincoln Rec. Soc. vol. xxii, no. 1176, and no. 495, a preliminary notice of 
the case. 

3 Evidently the mill which he gave to the abbey of Valmont. 

4 Cal. Docs. France, no. 212. Evrard’s charter, with no details of 
locality, is no. 211. Robert’s charter was witnessed by the abbot of Valmont, 
and the next three witnesses, Nicholas, William and Richard can be identified 
as Robert’s own brothers. 

5 He took his name from Little Houghton, co. Northampton. For an 
account of him and his descendants see V.C.H. Northants., iv, 267, and 
Farrer, Honors and Knights’ Fees, ii, 308, Little Houghton being a member 
of the honour of Huntingdon. 

© Pipe Roll 31 Hen. I, p. 81. 

7 Stenton, Danelaw Charters, no. 407. 


50 STUTEVILLE TEE 


de Reimes. The relationship of Adeliz to Roger and the identity 
of the latter have not, however, been determined.! 

In addition to Leonia’s inheritance of the honour of Rames 
in Normandy her holdings in England consisted of three distinct 
portions. These were (a) 15 knights’ fees mainly in Nottingham- 
shire and Derbyshire; (b) the manor of Dedham, Essex ; and (c) an 
interest in the honour of Bourn. 


(a) The 15 knights’ fees represented a share of the barony 
for which Hubert son of Ralph returned his carta of 30 knights’ 
fees in 1166, 20 being of the old feoffment and 10 of the new.? 
This barony was composed of lands held by Ralph son of Hubert 
at the Domesday survey.2 The 15 fees held by Leonia, which 
passed to her descendants the Estoutevilles of Valmont, included 
manors in Barlborough, Duckmanton and Eckington, co. Derby, 
Kirkby in Ashfield and Barton in Fabis, co. Nottingham, and 
land in Gunby St. Nicholas, co. Lincoln, and in Dalby on the 
Wolds, co. Leicester. In all these places Ralph son of Hubert 
had held an interest in 1086. It is significant that at the time 
of the Leicesterhire survey, 1124-29, Edward of Salisbury, Leonia’s 
father, held 9 carucates in Dalby on the Wolds, which was the 
same amount of land held there in 1086 by Ralph son of Hubert. 
Moreover, in the proceedings in the Gunby case of 1202 mentioned 
above it was stated that land there had been recovered in the 
court of Henry II by Robert d’Estouteville who had married 
Leonia daughter of Edward of Salisbury. Edward of Salisbury’s 
mother was named Maud ; for Maud wife of Hasculf de Tany and 
Graaland her son were benefactors of Bermondsey abbey,® and it 
was stated in the Gunby case that Edward of Salisbury was the 
eldest brother® of Graelenc de Tani, against whom Robert 


1 The complications of the tenures of the Rames family in England, 
with special reference to Dedham, where Leonia’s interest was an under- 
tenancy, are discussed by Round in Geoffrey de Mandeville, pp. 399-404. 
It is not unlikely, although this was not suggested by Round, that Adeliz 
represented an elder line descended from Roger de Rames, the Domesday 
tenant-in-chief ; and that it was through this elder line that the Norman 
property at Rames passed to Adeliz and so to Leonia, a younger line in- 
heriting his lands in England. The basis of such a solution as this was 
adopted by Mr. A. L. Raimes in his paper ‘Reymes of Overstrand’, reprinted 
from Norfolk Archaeology, vol. xxx, which contains detailed accounts of 
some of the English branches of the family, that of Overstrand descending 
in the male line to the nineteenth century. Cf. also his paper ‘The Family 
of Reymes of Wherstead’ in Proc. Suffolk Inst. of Archaeology, vol. xxiii. 
I am indebted to him for bringing these to my notice after this section of 
the present volume had been compiled, and for the opportunity of dis- 
cussing the question of Leonia with him. 

2 Red Bk. Exch., p. 343. 

3 For the greater part of these lands see V.C.H. Derby, i, 348 and 
V .C.H. Noits.,. 1, 2768: 

* Round, Feudal England, pp. 199, 210; V.C.H. Leicester, i, pp. 327, 
348. 

> Mon. Ang., v, 101. For Hasculf de Tany and Graelengus, mentioned 
with the latter’s mother unnamed in a charter of the Empress Maud, the 
former living in 1130, but dead when the charter was issued in 1141, and 
the latter living in 1166, see Round, Geoffrey de Mandeville, p. 91 and notes. 

6 4.e, half-brother. ; 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES . 51 


d’Estouteville had recovered the land.!. And it has been further 
suggested that Maud was one of the two daughters of Ralph son 
of Hubert, the Domesday tenant-in-chief, which would explain 
the descent of a share of his possessions through Edward of Salis- 
bury to Leonia.2, However that may be, it is clear that Leonia’s 
interest was inherited from her father. 

At Michaelmas 1187 her son Henry d’Estouteville accounted 
in Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire for 15. for scutage in respect 
of the fee shared between him and Hubert son of Ralph, paying 
this sum in full. It can be deduced that Leonia had made over 
her interest to him; for she confirmed to Welbeck abbey the 
gift of Richard Basset her knight of the vill of Duckmanton, co. 
Derby, which he was holding of her barony, and a subsequent 
confirmation (not later than 1203) was issued by her son Henry, 
who referred to the charter issued by his mother dame Leonia 
de Reynes [sic].4. Her prior interest is also shown by a charter, 
issued apparently as a result of the settlement made in the 
presence of Geoffrey archbishop of York in 1191-94 of a contro- 
versy relating to the church of Annesley, by which she, described 
as Leonia de Ramis, and Henry de Stutivilla, her son and heir, 
confirmed the church to Felley priory.2 At Michaelmas 1202 
Henry had quittance of scutage in Nottinghamshire and Derby- 
shire ;§ but on 8 May 1203 king John, then at Falaise, ordered 
the commitment to Brian de l’Isle of Kirkby [in Ashfield] which 
had belonged to Henry d’Estouteville, who was against the king 
with his enemies, although Henry’s mother was then holding it.” 

! It was on this combined evidence that Chester Waters constructed 
his pedigree of Edward of Salisbury in Notes and Queries (1872), ut sup. ; 
but no proof appears to be available that Maud was the widow of Edward 
of Salisbury the elder. 

2 This suggestion was made by Chester Waters in a letter to The 
Academy of 30 May 1885, in which he collected much evidence relating to 
the barony. The suggestion involves the deduction that Ralph son of 
Hubert had two daughters named Maud, if, as has been supposed, a daughter 
named Maud was the mother of Hubert son of Ralph, who held the 30 fees 
in 1166. It is certainly true that the mother of the latter (whose father was 
Ralph son of Odo) was named Maud ; see Professor Darlington’s introduction 
to Darley Cartulary, pp. Xvi-xx1li, where much information is given, especially 
for the moiety of the barony centred on Crich, co. Derby, which passed to 
the Frescheville family by marriage with the daughter and heir of Hubert 
son of Ralph. Hubert son of Ralph’s parentage is confirmed by charters in 
the Rufford Chartulary (Harl. MS. 1063, ff. 133V-134V) ; but there seems 
to be no proof that his mother Maud was a daughter of the Domesday 
tenant ; and on chronological grounds this is unlikely. It can, however, 
be assumed that Hubert son of Ralph was a lineal descendant, though not 
in the male line, of Ralph son of Hubert. 3 Pipe Roll 33 Hen. IT, p. 170. 

4 Mon. Ang., vi, 875. In Leonia’s charter the spelling is Rennes, 
evidently for Reimes. A transcript of her original charter was made in 1775 
(B.M. Add. MS. 6705, p. 76, a reference kindly supplied by Mr. A. L. Raimes); 
the legend on the seal being [LE]ONIE DE RAMES. 

5 Felley Chartulary, B.M. Add. MS. 36872, ff. 35, 35V (a reference 
kindly supplied by Sir Frank Stenton); and cf. the account from that source 
in Thoroton, Nottinghamshire (ed. Throsby), ii, 271. 

6 Pipe Roll 4 John, p. 196. 

_ 7 Rot. Norm., p. 92, other land of Henry having been given to Henry 
Ruffus. 


52 STUTEVILLE FEE 


In the following year, Leonia, described as widow of Robert 
de Stuteville, gave 200 marks for seisin of all her land of which 
she was seised before she was disseised by the king’s order by 
reason of her son then in Normandy, and for having the manor 
of Barton [in Fabis] of her inheritance ; and seisin was ordered if 
her fine was assured ;} and at Michaelmas she took Henry’s place 
for a sum due for scutage in Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire.? 
At Michaelmas 1205 she accounted for 30 marks for scutage for 
15 knights’ fees in the two counties, Hubert son of Ralph ac- 
counting for the same sum ;3 and in 1212 she and Hubert son 
of Ralph both held 15 knights’ fees there in chief, she holding 5 
carucates in Gunby also in chief.4 


(b) As noted above Leonia was holding the vill of Dedham, 
Essex, of her inheritance in 1185. This was an under-tenancy, 
and it has been suggested above that she held it of a younger 
line of the Rames family. In 1214-15, in a return of the fees of 
Richard de Rames, she held a knight’s fee in Dedham, of which 
the service was due as to one moiety to the heir of Richard de 
Rames and as to the other to the heir of William de Rames.6 At 
Michaelmas 1190 in an entry relating to the scutage due from 
Richard de Rames it was claimed that William son of Robert 
de Stuteville held half a knight’s fee in Dedham.® This suggests 
that Robert and Leonia had a younger son William, enfeoffed 
by his mother of half her holding. In 1202 an assize of mort 
d’ancestor for half a knight’s fee in Dedham brought against 
her by William Grimbald was postponed while her son was in 
the king’s service; and it was again postponed in 1206 while 
her knights were in the king’s service overseas.” It will be seen 
below that Leonia’s interest in Dedham descended to the Estoute- 
villes of Valmont. 


(c) Leonia possessed an interest in the honour of Bourn, 
co. Cambridge. This honour had been held by William Peverel, 
-and on his death in 1147-48 his coheirs were his four sisters.8 
They were Maud, who married Hugh de Dover and died s.p. ; 
Alice, who married Hamo Pecche and had issue; Roaise, who 
married Rollo de Harcourt, by whom she had a daughter Aubreye 
wife of William Trussebut ; and Asceline, who married Geoffrey 
de Walterville and whose eventual heirs were their two daughters. 


1 Rot. de Fin., p. 213; payment in full was made by Mich. (Pipe Roll 
6 John, p. 171). 

2 Pipe Roll 6 John, p. 169, where Leonia is interlined above Henricus. 

3 Ibid. 7 John, p. 232. 

4 Bk. of Fees, pp. 153, 183; in the first entry she is described as 
Leonina de Stutevill, and in the second as Leonia de Reimes. 

5 Bk. of Fees, p. 233. © Pipe Roll 2 Ric. I, p. 109. 

7 Curia Regis Rolls, ii, 116 ; iv, 225. 

8 Complete Peerage, new ed., x, pp. 332-3, in the account of Hamo 
Pecche ; William Peverel being the son of Robert Peverel and nephew of 
William Peverel of Dover. Details relating to the honour are given in 
Farrer, Feudal Cambridgeshire, pp. 159 et seg. with a pedigree ; and also, 
with several references to its division, in Eyton, Shropshire, ix, pp. 64 et seq., 
where, however, there is no mention of Leonia. 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 53 


In 1166 Hugh de Dover returned his caria from Cambridgeshire 
in respect of his wife’s inheritance, apparently amounting to 
5 knights’ fees, on which he paid 5 marks for the knights of the 
honour of Bourn in 1168 for the aid for the marriage of the king’s 
daughter.t At Michaelmas 1194 scutage payments for the king’s 
redemption were made or due from Gilbert Pecche and Leonia 
de Stuteville of two and a half marks each for their shares of the 
honour of Bourn, and Aubreye Trussebut paid 20s. on account of 
33s. 4d.2 These sums represent three equal shares of one and 
two-thirds fees, the total corresponding to the 5 fees held in 1166 
by Hugh de Dover in right of his wife who had died without issue. 
Again, in areturnc. 1210-12 Leonia de Stuteville, Hilaria Trussebut 
and Gilbert Pecche are named as sharing a holding in Bourn of 
the honour of Peverel of Dover.? Although the evidence may 
suggest that Leonia’s interest represented that of the fourth 
Peverel sister, Asceline de Walterville, the origin of such an 
interest 1s obscure. It does not appear to have survived her 
death ; and in 1220 Roger de Torpel, son of one of Asceline’s 
daughters, fined for his relief on his mother’s land, forming an 
inheritance for him of a sixth part of a barony ;° clearly his moiety 
of his grandmother's third part of the honour of Bourn. 


Leonia was living on 8 Jan. 1214-5, when she was engaged 
in a plea of novel disseisin of land in Barlborough, co. Derby.® 
It is probable that she died before 14 April 1216, when the king 
made a presentation to the church of Kirkby in Ashfield, vacant 
.and in his gift by reason of the land which had belonged to her 
being in his hand.? On 6 Jan. 1216-7 the king gave orders for 
Eustace de Es to have 20 librates of land which had belonged to 
her in Barton [in Fabis}] and Bradmore.2 On 22 May 1217 seisin 
of the land of Eckington was ordered to be given to William de 
Cantilupe the younger ;° and on 11 June that of all her lands in 
Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire to William earl de Warenne, 
the manor of Eckington being reserved in Cantilupe’s favour on 
the following day and again on 22 July.!® As her father, Edward 
of Salisbury, was dead at Michaelmas 1130, Leonia lived to an 
advanced age. 

1 Red -Bk. Exch., p. 368; Pipe Roll 14 Hen. II, p. 103. 

2 Pipe Roll 6 Ric. J, p. 79. Similar sums were due for the second and 
third scutages (Chancellor’s Roll 8 Ric. I, p. 280). In 1199 Henry de Stute- 
ville had quittance of scutage in Cambridgeshire ‘de feodo Leonis de 
Stu[teuill’]’ (Pipe Roll 1 John, p. 162). 

2 hed Bk. ach: p.-929. 

* It is curious to find that both Asceline’s daughters, who died in 
1220 and 1228, were of age during Leonia’s tenure (Farrer, Feudal Cam- 
bridgeshive, pp. 160, 163). 

5 fre. € Rot. Fan., 1, 46. 

© Kot. Claus, 1, 182b. Rot. 4° ats, Pp. Vira: 

8 Rot. Claus., i, 295b. 9 Ibid., p. 308b. 

1° [bid., pp. 310b, 314b. The orders for seisin of the lands granted to 
Warenne at pleasure for maintenance in the king’s service were directed 
to the sheriffs of Essex, Cambridge, and Nottingham and Derby (7bid., p. 
347b). Possibly Cambridge was included in view of her interest in the 
honour of Bourn. 


54 STUTEVILLE FEE 


With regard to Robert d’Estouteville, Leonia’s husband, he 
can presumably be identified with Robert de Estoteville who 
was among those who did not come or send information for the 
return of knights’ fees in Normandy in 1172.1 In 1180 he and 
his brothers Nicholas and William had extensive holdings in the 
forest of Fécamp ; and he had 200 acres of the king’s gift in the 
forest of Lillebonne, on the western bound of which lay the castle 
of Rames.? In that year he accounted for the farm of Lillebonne 
for five years, and had the custody of the castles of Lions-la- 
Forét and Arques.? After his death, not later than 1185, king 
Henry II gave for his (Robert’s) soul to the abbey of Valmont 
four churches in the district of Lillebonne.t| A large number of 
charters issued by the king in Normandy, none of which can be 
dated later than 1185,° were witnessed by a Robert de Stutevilla 
or Estoutevilla, and the balance of the evidence suggests that he 
can be identified as Robert d’Estouteville of Valmont rather than 
Robert III of the English branch, who was a justice itinerant in 
England and sheriff of Yorkshire. 

Besides Henry his son and successor, and, as suggested 
above, a younger son William, Robert d’Estouteville had a 
daughter to whose husband, Robert de Brettevill, he gave a 
moiety of the land in Gunby in marriage.® 


HENRY D’ESTOUTEVILLE inherited Valmont from Robert 
his father, and the honour of Rames after his mother’s death.’ 
His temporary possession of a considerable portion of his mother’s 
lands in England, which he forfeited as an adherent of Philip 
Augustus in Normandy, has already been mentioned. He was 
among the Norman barons who on 13 Nov. 1205 certified the 
rights which the late kings of England had against the clergy in 
the duchy of Normandy.” Im the list. of .tees. held of Philip 
Augustus in the period 1210-20 he held one of the five and a 
half fees in Etouteville, which lay at Valmont, Thiergeville and 
Angerville ;? and also a fee at Rames.!° By a charter issued in the 
castle of Valmont on 13 Dec. 1228 he gave to the abbey of 
Valmont the tithes of the value of his fairs of Valmont for lights 


1 Red Bk. Exch., p. 644. His father was then alive, but his knights’ 
fees were evidently in respect of the honour of Rames held in Leonia’s right. 

2 Rot. Scaccs Norm.; i, pp. cxxi, 67, 90. 

> Tbid pp. 68, 73; 91; 

+ Delisle et Berger, Actes de Henri II, ii, no. 726, issued at Tours on 
the same occasion as his second general confirmation (no. 725). 

5 More than thirty texts are printed in Delisle et Berger, Actes de 
Henri II. In his Introduction, p. 448, Delisle gives notes about a Robert 
d’Estouteville ; but only some references concern Robert of Valmont, while 
most of them concern Robert III of the English branch. 

° As stated in the case of 1202. 

’ The charter of Philip Augustus in March 1218, securing his in- 
heritance at Rames, which had been the king’s escheat, is given in La Roque, 
op. cit., iv, 2178. 

8 Cal. Docs. France, no. 1318. 

9 ec, des Hist..de la France, xxiii, 642k. 

10 Thid., p. 645a ; and cf. 643f for other members of the honour of Rames. 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 55 


in the church on the anniversary of the death of his wife Maud 
countess of Eu.} 

Maud his wife was a daughter of earl Hamelin by Isabel 
daughter and heir of William de Warenne, third earl of Surrey ; 
she was the widow of Henry count of Eu, who probably died in 
1190-91 ;? and by him she was the mother of Alice, who became 
countess of Eu and lady of Hastings and of the honour of Tickhill.? 
Her own heir at her death was John d’Estouteville, her son by 
her second husband ; and there is some evidence that the Warenne 
holding in Gresham, Norfolk, formed her marriage portion.‘ 
In 1212 she was a benefactor of the abbey of Valmont.® 

It is likely that sometime after the death of his mother 
Leonia in 1215-16 he recovered her inheritance in England, and 
forfeited it again after the renewal of the war with France in 
1224 ; for on 5 Sept. 1226 the sheriff of Nottinghamshire was 
ordered to take into the king’s hand all the lands which Henry 
d’Estouteville had held there of the king ;° and again on 30 March 
1228 all the land which had belonged to him in Barton [in Fabis| 
of the lands of the Normans, and in Bradmore.’ He died not 
later than 1236, and was buried in the abbey of Valmont, where 
his obit was observed on 5 April.8 Besides his sons John and 
Robert, mentioned below, he had a daughter Isabel, who married 
Peétersde- Preus.® 


JOHN D’ESTOUTEVILLE, son and heir. In 1236, described 
as a knight, he issued a charter to the abbey of Valmont, giving 
.or confirming 15/2. of yearly rents, and mentioning Henry his 
father, then dead, Maud his mother, Agnes his wife and Robert 
his brother; among the witnesses was Ralph d’Estouteville, 
knight.?¢ 


1 La Roque, op. cii., iv, add-et, cor, p: 23. 

SPUN Cs Wit, «22 

3 Complete Peerage, new ed., v, pp. 159-60, where an extract from the 
charter of 1228 is given. 

f E.Y.C., vii, 23; the holding was held by her grandson Robert 
d’Estouteville for 2 k.f. of the honour of Warenne. 

> Complete Peerage, loc. cit., p. 160n. The gift was a rent from her mill 
of Torcy of her maritagium (G. de la Morandi€re, op. cit., p. 80). This can 
be identified as Torcy-le-Petit, arr. Dieppe, cant. Longueville (Chron. des 
Comtes d’Eu in Rec. des Hist. de la France, xxiii, 441j, where, however, 
her parentage is given wrongly), which was in the sphere of her father’s 
Warenne honour in Normandy centred on Bellencombre. 

6 Eve. ée Rot. Fin., i, 147. 

7 Ibid., p. 170. In the Nottingham and Derby returns of 1226-28 it is 
stated that Barton [in Fabis] belonging to Henry de Stuteville was an 
escheat of the lands of the Normans, worth 10/2. or 20. yearly, and held by 
earl de Warenne ; and that his land in Bradmore was worth 100s. (Bk. of 
Fees, p. 373). 

SG. de la Morandiere, op. cit., p. 88. 

° Complete Peerage, loc. cit., p. 159”. She presumably took her name 
from her maternal grandmother, Isabel de Warenne. 

1° La Roque, op. cit., iv, add. et cotr., p. 23, dated 1236. The notice 
in G. de la Morandiére, op. cit., p. 88, gives additional clauses and the date 
1231-3 but this is probably an error for|the date of issue of a charter by 
his father. 


56 STUTEVILLE FEE 


In England he recovered the lands of his inheritance. On 

21 Dec. 1226 (when his father was still living and the two countries 

were at war) the sheriff of Nottinghamshire was ordered to give 

him seisin of his lands which the king had caused to be taken 
into his hand ;! and in 1230 he paid 50d. as a fine for 15 fees in 

Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire. The extent of his English 

lands is shown in several returns. Thus, in 1235-36 in a return of 

the honour of Tickhill®? he was assessed at 9 marks for the aid 
for the marriage of the king’s sister for 44 fees, and a further 

21 marks for 104 fees, making a total of 15 fees ;* his holding in 

Barton in Fabis and Kirkby in Ashfield representing the former, 

and: that in. Eckington representimg the latter”. In 1237 an 

institution to the church of Kirkby in Ashfield was made on 
his presentation. His moiety of the barony of Hubert son of 

Ralph is mentioned in a return of 1242-43 ;7 and in 1244 he held 

Kirkby, Eckington, Barton and Bradmore, and rather more than 

9 fees were held by his tenants.’ In 1242-43 two tenants held of 

him 3 carucates in Gunby, co. Lincoln, his holding in chief being 

of the new feoffment ;? and in 1244 his holding of 4 carucates 
there was included in an inquisition of the serjeanties and lands 
of the Normans and aliens who adhered to the king of France.1° 

In Essex, in 1235-36 the prioress of Campsey paid half a mark’s 

scutage for half a fee in Dedham of his fee 4 and in 1244 he held 

a moiety of that manor.” All these interests had been held by 

his grandmother Leonia de Rames. In Hampshire, in 1235-36 he 

paid 2 marks for the aid for his fee in Stratfield Saye, where in 

1242-43 Robert de Say held a knight’s fee of the old feoffment 

of him ;!8 and in 1242-43 a fifth of a knight’s fee of the old feoff- 

ment was held of him in Church Oakley.4 Certainly the former 
and probably the latter! interest had descended to him from 
his ancestor Nicholas d’Estuteville. 

1 Rot. Claus: a, 16Zb. 

2 Pipe Roll 14 Hen. Ill, p. 87 ; apparently the balance of a total sum 
of 200 marks (Darley Cartulary, p. xxiin). 

3 His fees, certainly held in chief, may perhaps have been attached 
for administrative convenience to this honour, then in the king’s hand. 

4 Bk. of Fees, pp. 536-7. 

> Ibid., pp. 529, 531, 533. Actually his payment of 7/i. in Eckington, 
there recorded, would be on 5} fees at 2 marks per fee ; but this was pro- 
bably one moiety only of the total payment spread over two terms (cf. 
Close Rolls, 1234-37, p. 188). 

6 Reg. Gray, p. 78. He may be the John de Stuteville who witnessed 
an agreement made by William earl de Warenne in Yorkshire, 1233-40 
(EY .€., viii, 00, 171); the earl Deity his uncic. 

E BR, Of PGs, p.-098: © 1 0t@. Pik 50, 
° Ibid., p. 1050. 10 Ibid., p. 1148. 

11 [bid., p. 477. This suggests that she had been successful in her plea 
against him for 4 k.f. there in 1232-33 (Close Rolls, 1231-34, p. 151 ; Bracton’s 
Note Book, no. 746). 

12 Bk. of Fees, p. 1152. 

13 [bid., pp. 418, 420, 705 ; and cf. p. 1155. 

14 [bid., p. 705. 

15 Hugh son of Baldric held interests in both places in 1086.(D.B., 
i, 48). 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 57 


On 17 April 1242 the king gave him respite for the service 
of 3 knights’ fees until the king went to Gascony, so that he 
should do service there ; and the sheriffs of Essex and Notting- 
hamshire were instructed accordingly. But before 12 Feb. 1243-4 
his lands had been taken into the king’s hand, the sheriffs of 
those two counties and Derbyshire being ordered to allow him 
his stocks therein ;? and on the following 29 March the custody 
of his lands was committed to Bernard of Savoy for the use of 
prince Edward.* Bernard had the custody on 5 July 1245 ;* but 
on 10 July he was ordered to deliver seisin to John, to whom the 
king had made a restoration, the lands having originally been 
taken into the king’s hand by reason of the inquisition concerning 
the lands of aliens ;> and on 15 Oct. Bernard was ordered to 
comply with the king’s gift to John of all the corn and hay for 
the past year.® In 1255 he was granted a licence to give a moiety 
of his manor of Dedham, held in chief, to his daughter Alice in 
frank-marriage ;’ and on 31 May of that year, described as a 
knight, he presented his son John to a moiety of the church of 
Eckington.® It is probable that he can be identified with the 
John de Stutevill who on 11 April 1258 had licence to cross the 
seas to defend the cause which the abbot of Marmoutier had 
against him, provided he sent two of his sons in his place to the 
king’s army of Wales.® 

In a record of 1261 it is stated that he died on 15 Aug. 
1258, when his land, held in chief, namely a moiety of the manor 
of Dedham, passed into the king’s hand and was subsequently 
* delivered to Ralph [? recte Robert], his son and heir. On 27 Aug. 
1258 Agnes his widow was given leave to dwell with her family 
in his manor of Kirkby [in Ashfield] until the octave of Michaelmas, 
the term fixed by the king for doing justice to Robert his son 
and heir in respect of the lands of his inheritance." Agnes can 
be identified as the Agnes de Stuteville who in June 1272 made a 
gift to the abbey of Valmont with the consent of her sons Sir 
Robert, Sir Wilham, Sir Stutus (Estoldus) and master John, 
canon of Rouen.“ The evidence given below under the last of 
these sons suggests that master John’s mother was a sister of the 
vicomte de Chateau-Dun. It is recorded in the account of that 
family that Geoffrey IV, vicomte de Chateau-Dun, had a sister 
named Isabel, described as the second wife of Jean sire d’Estoute- 
ville, whose widow she was in 1259.% Although the christian 
names do not correspond the evidence makes it highly probable 


1 Close Rolls, 1237-42, p. 413. 2 Ibid., 1242-47, p. 158. 
2 Tbhids p. 1713: * Ibid., p. 323. > Ibid., p. 325. 
® Ibid., p. 345. 7 Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1247-58, p. 454. 


8 Jeayes, Derbyshive Charters, no. 1125; and itbid., no. 1727 for his 
court at Eckington. 
9 Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1247-58, p. 623. 1° DR Of Fees, p. 1293. 
it “Closé: ROWS, 1256-59, p. 262: 
12 G. de la Morandiére, op. cit.,. p. 100. 
'3 Anselme, Histoire Généalogique ... de vance, iii, 316. 
1* Actually the vicomte had another sister named Agnes of whom no 
details are recorded (2b7d.). 


58 STUTEVILLE FEE 


that Jean d’Estouteville’s wife and the mother of his sons was a 
sister of the vicomte de Chateau-Dun. 


Of these sons : 
(1) Robert ; see below. 


(2) William was enfeoffed of the manor of Eckington, where 
he was granted free warren on 28 June 1270.1 In 1281 he was 
holding the manor of Robert his brother ;? and at his death 
shortly before 4 Sept. 1282 he held it of Robert for a knight’s 
fee, his heir being Robert de Stuteville aged thirty and more.’ 
It is possible that he was the William son of John de Stotevyle 
who was among those accompanying Richard earl of Cornwall to 
Germany in 1257.4 


(3) Stutus, as recorded in an inquisition of 1324, was en- 
feoffed of the manors of Barton in Fabis and Bradmore, to him 
and the heirs of his body, by John his father in.1251-52.5 On 
24 Aug. 1303 the king, in accordance with the terms of the peace 
with France, ordered his lands in England to be restored to him.® 
In 1304 he went overseas ;? and at his death before 20 July 1308, 
being described as an alien, he was holding these manors of 
Eleanor widow of Robert d’Estouteville for a knight’s fee, his 
heir being Nicholas his son of full age. On 14 Jan. 1327-8 orders 
were issued to deliver to Nicholas his lands in Barton and Bradmore 
which the late king took into his hand amongst other lands of the 
men of the power of the king of France, as Nicholas had petitioned 
for their restoration on the re-establishment of peace.? Nicholas 
died before 17 Dec. 1328, when his lands were in the king’s hand 
as his heir was under age® His heir was Stutus his son, born 
overseas, whose homage the king took in Nov. 1331, although he 


1 Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1257-1300, p. 146. 

2° Cal. Close Rolls, 1279-88, p. 137. 

3 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 423 ; Cal. Fine Rolls, 1272-1307, p. 168. The 
relationship of his heir is not given. The heir can scarcely have been Robert 
his brother, whose age was far more ; and may have been a son, of whom, 
however, nothing more seems to be known. The superior interest in the 
manor continued to be held by Robert. 

4 Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1247-58, p. 590; the next name being John de 
Stotevyle, perhaps his father. This is cited in N. Denholm-Young, Richard 
of Cornwall, p. 90, where, however, the entry is given incorrectly as ‘William 
de Stuteville and John his son.’ A Sir John de Stuteville witnessed a charter 
of earl Richard to Hailes abbey at Wallingford on 23 Feb. 1256-7 (Cal. 
Chart. Rolls, 1300-26, p. 489), another witness being William Talebot who 
also accompanied the earl to Germany. 

5 Cal. Ing. Misc., ii, no. 794; Cal. Fine Rolls, 1319-27, p. 283. The 
particulars are of value in checking the descent of the superior interest, and 
of this younger line, to 1324. 

6 Plate xx (b) in Johnson and Jenkinson, English Court Hand, from 
L.T.R. Memoranda Roll 69, m. 49 (a reference kindly supplied by Prof. 
J. G. Edwards); he is described as a knight in the power of the king of 
France. 

7 Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1301-07, p. 228. SCal- Ing. piwm.,. V, 208..77, 78. 

9 Cal. Close Rolls, 1327-30, p. 195. 

10 Cal. Fine Rolls, 1327-37, p.. 110; and cf. p. 162 ;: he is deseribed 
there as a tenant-in-chief. 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 59 


would not attain full age until the following Michaelmas.t_ On 
6 May 1332 seisin of his lands was ordered to be given him ;? and 
four days later he acknowledged in the Chancery at London his 
deed granting to Richard de Grey of Codnor the manors of Barton 
and Bradmore.® 

(4) John, as noted above, was presented to a moiety of the 
church of Eckington in 1255 and occurs as a canon of Rouen in 
1272. He is said to have died on 4 or 21 Dec. 1275.4 In 1268 the 
archbishop of Rouen recorded that he had inspected a papal ' 
licence of 4 Aug. 1249 directed to John de Stuteville, clerk, and 
issued at the request of the vicomte de Chateau-Dun, whose 
nephew John was, giving him permission to hold two ecclesiastical 
benefices.° 


ROBERT D’ESTOUTEVILLE, eldest son and heir. On 22 Oct. 
1258 the king took his homage for the lands which: John his 
father had held-in chief. In May 1259, described as a knight, he 
confirmed to the abbey of Valmont the 15/7, of yearly rents; 
mentioning John d’Estouteville his father ;? and in 1274 he 
appears to have made a gift to that house for the soul of Joan 
his wife, deceased.® 
In England the sheriff of Nottinghamshire was ordered on 
9 April 1260 to relax a distraint imposed by the exchequer for 
scutage due from him for the last army of Wales, if he gave 
security ;? and in 1268, described as a Norman, he had a quittance 
of summons in Nottinghamshire and Suffolk.t%° On 5 Oct. 1261, 
as son of John d’Estouteville, he and his heirs were granted free 
_ warren and a market and fair at his manor of Kirkby in Ashfield ;14 
and in 1277 Robert de Say held of him the manor of Stratfield 
Saye by the service of a knight's fee 


1 Cal. Close Rolls, 1330-33, p. 412. 4 lbid., p. 459. 

3 Ibid., p. 563. Abstracts of two original documents relating to the 
sale, for a sum of 800/., are given in Hist. MSS. Comm., Lord Middleton, 
pp. 89, 90; they are dated 11 Nov. 1331 and 12 May 1332, in the latter 
Stutus undertaking to visit England in the autumn to give surety. 

* G. de la Morandiére, op. cz:, p. TOL. 

> Reg. Giffard, p. 138, where the text of the licence is printed. 

©. Exe..e Rot: Fin. u, 290; among the pledges: for ‘his-relief “being 
William de Stuteville of co. Derby (evidently his younger brother); and 
the sheriff of Essex was ordered to give seisin. 

7 La Roque, op. cit., iv, add. et corr., p. 23 ; among the witnesses being 
William d’Estouteville, knt. (evidently his brother) and another William. 
Demay, Inventairve des sceaux de la Normandie, no. 239, describes the seal ; 
equestrian with shield of arms, barry a lion rampant. 

8 G..de la Morandieére, op. cit., p. 103. 

° Close Rolls, 1259-61, p. 35; on the same day there was a similar 
order to the sheriff of Essex on behalf of Ralph [szc] d’Estouteville. The 
demand against Robert was for 10/:. and was respited on 13 May (zbid., p. 41). 
Gifts of robes and of deer in Sherwood forest to a Robert in the period 
1258-63, and an order on 3 May 1260 to the bailiffs and barons of Shoreham 
to restore his three chargers and arms arrested in that port (zbid., 1256-59, 
p. 266 ; zbid., 1259-61, pp. 37, 362, 397, 408; ibid., 1261-64, pp. 17, 155, 
236), probably refer to him, being a man in the king’s favour; in one reference 
he is described as a Norman. 

10 T[bid., 1264-68, p. 558. 11 Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1257-1300, p. 38. 
+2 Cal. Ing. p.m., 0, 20, 223. 


60 STUTEVILLE FEE 


In addition to his inherited possessions in Normandy and 
England, Robert d’Estouteville acquired lands in Northumber- 
land as the second husband of Eleanor de Genoure, a kinswoman 
of Queen Eleanor of Provence. After the death in 1272-73 of 
Roger Bertram III of Mitford, Northumberland, Agnes his daughter 
and heir gave Mitford and Felton to Queen Eleanor, in whose 
chamber she had been brought up.2. At a date not later than 
26 May 1275 Queen Eleanor granted to Sir Alexander de Baliol® 
in frank-marriage with Eleanor his wife the castle and vill of 
Mitford with Felton and Molesden, which the queen had of the 
inheritance of Sir Roger Bertram, to hold in chief to them and 
Eleanor’s heirs by Alexander or any other husband.* After 
Alexander’s death in 1278 without issue, and not later than 30 
Oct. 1281, Eleanor married Robert d’Estouteville. On the latter 
date Robert surrendered to the king the manors of Kirkby in Ash- 
field’ and Dedham, Essex, with knights’ fees and advowsons, except 
the homage and service of William, Robert’s brother, and his heirs 
due to Robert for the manor of Eckington ; and the king under- 
took to enfeoff Robert and Eleanor de Baliol his wife and the 
heirs of their bodies with reversion to Robert’s heirs. On 29 
Nov. Robert d’Estouteville and Eleanor de Genoure (Gebunun) 
his wife were duly granted the two manors with that limitation ;? 
and four years later, on 22 Nov. 1285, a similar grant was made 
of the manor of Eckington.® In 1284, having disobeyed the king’s 
summons for the last Welsh expedition, he was pardoned for a 
payment of 100 marks for every knight’s fee held, it being found 
that John his father had held 15 fees of the barony of Hubert 
son of Ralph, and that Robert held 5 fees of the inheritance of 
Eleanor de Genevere his wife, making a total of 20 fees.® 

On several occasions before the outbreak of the war with 
France in 1294 Robert and Eleanor were given letters for the 
appointment of attorneys during their absence overseas—on 
23 April 1282; 2 Jan. 1284-5; 25 Feb. 1285-6; 3 May 1289; 
23 April 1291; and 20 Jan. 1291-2° On the outbreak of war 

1 Northumberland County History, xii, 411, quoting a detailed account 
of the church of Ponteland written 1292-1302. Eleanor was described in 
1307 as one of the nurses of the late king Edward I (Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1307-13, 

. 6). 
: Complete Peerage, new ed., ii, 161; Northumberland County History, 
ut su 

a son of John de Baliol and Dervorguilla his wife, and lord of Bywell 
and Barnard Castle, in which he was succeeded by his younger brother John 
Baliol, subsequently king of Scotland (ped. of Baliol in Northumberland 
County History, vi, 73). 

* Cat. Anc. Deeds, v, no. A.11535 ; Cal. Close Rolls, 1272-79, p. 173. 

> Described as Kirkebi, co. Northampton, evidently in error. 

® Cal. Close Rolls, 1279-88, p.137. 7 Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1257-1300, p. 260. 

8 Ibid., p. 327. On the previous 18 May it was recorded that Robert 
had surrendered this manor into the king’s hand (Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1281-92, 
p: 167). 9 Thoroton, Nottinghamshire, ed. Throsby, ii, 291. 

10 Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1281-92, pp. 18, 149, 224, 226, 315, 426, 468-9; 
their stay in Normandy being specified in one instance, and it may be 
supposed that their visits were to Valmont. The last reference is to Robert 
alone, described as of Normandy. 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 61 


Robert adhered to the king of France. His English lands were 
taken into the king’s hand, who for that reason made four 
presentations to a moiety of the church of Eckington in the 
period 1295 to 1303.1 Eleanor evidently remained in England, 
for on 12 Dec. 1298, described as the king’s kinswoman, she was 
granted the manor of Eckington, taken into the king’s hand as 
her husband Robert was an alien and of the power of the king 
of France, to hold at will for the maintenance of herself and her 
children ; and on 21 Dec. had licence to demise it for two years.” 
On 16 July 1299, following the recent truce, Robert was among 
those pledged to the king of France for English prisoners.® 
His English lands still remained in the king’s hand ;* and on 
18 Aug. the captal de Bouche and Poncius, lord of Chatillon, 
were appointed to all the lands which he held in England before 
the war, to hold for their maintenance in accordance with the 
ordinance for the Gascons.® He evidently returned to England 
after the peace in 1303 and recovered his lands ; for on 20 May 
1304 he made a fine of 60s. for having a writ of attorneys general 
for Eleanor his wife, while staying beyond seas, to last for two 
years ;® and on 29 July of that year it was found that John de 
Longford held the manor of Barlborough, co. Derby, of him by 
the service of 5 knights’ fees and doing suit at his court at 
Eckington.’ 

Robert d’Estouteville died shortly before 14 April 1306 ; 
and at his death he held Mitford castle and two-thirds of the 
forest of Felton in right of Eleanor de Genouere his wife; the 
manors of Eckington, co. Derby, and Kirkby in Ashfield, co. 
Nottingham, each held by the service of a knight’s fee ; the manor 
of Dedham, Essex, jointly with his wife, in chief by the service 
of a knight’s fee ; and a messuage and land in Gresham, Norfolk,® 
held of the heir of John de Warenne for 2 knights’ fees, and 
12 acres held of Roger le Bigod ; his heir was John, his son by 
Eleanor, aged twenty-four or twenty-five, born in remote parts.® 

In the same year Eleanor presented petitions to Parliament 
to have undamaged her third of the manor of Bywell, Northumber- 

i Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1292-1301, pp. 145, 353, 408; ibid., 1301-07, p. 118. 

2 [bid., 1292-1301, pp. 389, 391. On 6 Jan. 1300-1 the licence was 
extended for a further two years, her husband being a subject of the king 
of France (2bid., p. 96!). 

3 Ibid., pp. 427-8 ; Cal. Close Rolls, 1296-1302, pp. 261-2. 

* Cal. Close Rolls, 1296-1302, p. 281; Cal. Fine Rolls, 1272-1307, pp. 
424, 432. | 

5 Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1292-1301, p. 431. 

6 Cal. Fine Rolls, 1272-1307, p. 494 ; and cf. Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1301-07, 
p. 228, for letters to nominate attorneys for himself on 18 May. 

7 Cat. Ing. p.m., tv, Bo. Z0Z. 

8 Possibly, as suggested above, the maritagium of his grandmother 
Maud de Warenne. 

2 Cal. Ing. pm., iv, no. 369. There are references to the settlements 
(of 1281 and 1285 ; see above) for Kirkby, Dedham and Eckington. Extents 
made in 1298, Robert being described as alienigena, show that he held a 
messuage, meadow and land in Bolton-on-Dearne, co. York, in which dame 
Eda Bertram had dower (Yorks. Ingq., ili, no. 66a); the latter being the 
widow of Roger Bertram IIL (Complete Peerage, new ed., ii, 161). 


62 STUTEVILLE. FEE 


land, of which she was dowered,! and for the issues of the manors 
of Eckington, Kirkby in Ashfield and Dedham, while they had 
been in the king’s hand after her husband’s death up to 1 Nov. 
when she received them.? On 30 June 1307, being maintained by 
the king, she was pardoned 40/. of the 120/. due for the debts 
of her husband and of John d’Estouteville his father.2 She died 
before 7 Sept. 1310, when orders were issued to take her lands 
into the king’s hand.4. The ensuing inquisitions found that she 
held the manors of Eckington and Kirkby in Ashfield, and the 
lands in Northumberland, of which additional details are given ; 
her heir was her son John, aged twenty-six and more or twenty- 
seven.° 

Thus John, the son of Robert d’Estouteville by his wife 
Eleanor de Genoure, inherited the English lands of his parents. 
But the following evidence makes it clear that Robert’s heir to 
his Norman lands was the son of his son Robert, who can be 
presumed to have been his son by his first wife Joan.® In the 
account of the proceedings in a case in which Robert and Eleanor 
were involved in the period 1284-93, arising from a dispute over 
the seisin of a tenement in Northumberland, which led to blood- 
shed, there is mention of Robert son of Robert de Stuteville and 
his groom.” Again, in 1304 when Robert had his writ of attorneys 
general for his wife on going overseas, a similar writ was issued 


1 [In virtue of her first marriage to Alexander de Baliol. 

2 Rot. Part., i,- 199a. 3 Cal. Pat. Rolis, 1301-07, p. 532. 

4 Cal. Fine Rolls, 1307-19, p. 73. 5 Cal. Ing. p.m., V, no. 237. 

6 Mentioned in his gift to Valmont in 1274, noted above. In 1262 


Joan dau. and heir of William Talbot, a Norman, occurs as the wife of a 
Robert de Stuteville (Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1266-72, p. 728); in 1261 Robert de 
Stuteville and Joan his wife were given seisin of the manor of Gainsborough, 
for two-thirds of which they were the defendants against William de Valence 
in 1270-71 (Close Rolls, 1259-61, p. 349 ; 1268-72, pp. 271, 400, 428); and in 
1262 they were plaintiffs against John earl.de Warenne for a tenement 
-in Wing, co. Buckingham (zbid., 1261-64, p. 149). Although the place of 
William Talbot in the Talbot pedigree has not been determined, there is 
abundant evidence of a Talbot interest in Gainsborough and Wing. In 
1242-43 John Talbot held a knight’s fee of Roger de Mowbray in Gains- 
borough and William Talbot held a knight’s fee of earl de Warenne in Wing 
(Bk. of Fees, pp. 1095, 878). Several notes on the two places are given by 
Farrer in H.K.F., iii, pp. 170-1, 415. Although proof is lacking it is on the 
whole more likely that the Robert de Stuteville, husband of Joan Talbot, 
was Robert de Stuteville of Valmont rather than Robert de Stuteville of 
Cowesby and Gressenhall, who also had a wife named Joan (see §4 above). 
A Gainsborough charter of the middle of the 13th century was witnessed 
by sir William the knight ‘de Stotewil’ (Reg. Antiquissimum, Lincoln Rec. 
Soc., ui, 273), who was very likely William d’Estouteville of Eckington, 
brother of Robert lord of Valmont; and for a possible association of the 
latter’s father with William Talbot see p. 58” above. Sir G. Sitwell in 
Tales of my native village, pp. 86-7, citing Norman evidence, though without 
documentary references, apparently accepts the identification as Robert 
de Stuteville of Valmont. On the other hand Dugdale, also without any 
apparent reference, gives Joan Talbot as the wife of Robert de Stuteville 
of Gressenhall (Baronage, i, 456). 
7 A full record of this case is given in Rot. Parl., i, pp. 120b-124b. The 
outlawry, earlier imposed on Robert and Eleanor, was superseded in 1293 
(Cal. Close Rolls, 1288-96, pp. 293, 336). 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 63 


for Alice widow of Robert de Stuteville the younger ;! and on 
15 March 1322-3 a notification was issued that Robert de Stute- 
ville son of Robert de Stuteville was the ‘nephew’ [evidently 
recte grandson (nepos)| and lawful heir of Robert de Stuteville 
the elder, and had succeeded him in all the goods which the 
latter had in the realm of France on the day of his death.? This 
evidence is consistent with the Norman records ; for it is stated 
that in 1285 a Robert d’Estouteville married Alix Bertrand de 
Bricquebec, and that in 1311 the heir of Valmont was a younger 
Robert, then under age, the son of dame Alix Bertram.3 

It can be deduced, therefore, that on his death in 1306 
Robert d’Estouteville was succeeded in his Norman possessions 
by his grandson Robert, son and heir of Robert his son by his 
first wife Joan. From his grandson descended the later Estoute- 
villes of Valmont. . In the early part of the fifteenth century 
their representative was Louis d’Estouteville, the defender of 
Le Mont St. Michel against the English, and the husband of the 
heiress of the Paynels of Hambye;* his brother was the well- 
known Cardinal. In the following century Adrienne, daughter 
and heir of Jean d’Estouteville, married Francois de Bourbon ; 
and in 1534 the duchy d’Estouteville was created in their favour. 


JOHN D’ESTOUTEVILLE, son of Robert d’Estouteville by 
his second wife Eleanor de Genoure. On 26 May 1311, after he 
had done homage, the escheators were ordered to deliver to him 
the lands of his father and mother.6 On 4 April 1314, as lord of 
_ Eckington, he confirmed to Welbeck abbey land in Duckmanton ;? 
and on 27 April he was granted a licence to demise to Hervey de 
Stanton, king’s clerk, for life the manor of Dedham, held in 
chief.8 On 16 Feb. 1314-5 he was granted a licence to enfeoff 
Aymer de Valence, earl of Pembroke, of his manor and castle of 
Mitford and other interests in Northumberland ;? and four days 
later he issued a charter to the earl at London.” On 15 Nev. 
1318, by a charter at York, he quitclaimed to Adam de Meyneville 


1 Cal. Fine Rolls, 1272-1307, p. 494. 

2 Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1321-24, p. 266. 

3G. de la Morandiére, op. cit., pp. 103, 110, though the precise steps 
in the descent there given are not easy to accept in view of the English 
evidence. © 

a S66 Lev GC., Vig Pp« Vil, ae. 30): 

> Full details of the descent and of several younger branches are given 
in Anselme, Hist. généalogique, viii, pp. 89 et seq.; and, for the duchy, v, 
pp. 549 et seg. A volume ‘Correspondance de la Famille d’Estouteville 
(1460-1535)’, edited with a valuable introduction by M. Paul Le Cacheux, 
was issued by the Société de Il’Histoire de Normandie in 1935. 

6 Cal. Fine Rolls, 1307-19, p. 93. These did not include the interest 
in Gresham, which was granted to Edmund Bacon for life in 1308, and to 
him and his heirs in 1316 (Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1307-13, p. 82 ; 1313-17, p. 574). 

7 Jeayes, Derbyshire Charters, no. 1095. His seal bore the arms, barry 
over all a lion rampant (B.M. Cat. of Seals, no. 13715). 

8 Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1313-17, p. 110; and cf. Cal. Fine Rolls, 1319-27, p. 195. 

’ Cal. Pat. Kolis, 1313-17, p. 254, 

*° Hodgson, Northumberland, part ii, vol. ii, p. 49, where one charter in 
French is given in full. 


64 STUTEVILLE FEE 


all right in lands and fisheries in the Tyne in the territories of 
Bywell and Stocksfield.? 

John d’Estouteville had letters for the appointment of 
attorneys on going overseas on 5 Jan. 1312-3, 8 July 1315, and 
13 Nov. and 25 Dec. 1318.2 At his death shortly before 22 Nov. 
1322 he held the reversion of the manor of Dedham, held of the 
king as of the honour of Rames by knight service, his heir there 
being his brother? aged thirty ; the manor of Eckington, held in 
chief for a knight’s fee, the advowson of the church, and four 
other specified manors and lands in Derbyshire held by tenants 
for a total service of 8 knights’ fees; the manor of Kirkby in 
Ashfield, held in chief for a knight’s fee, subject to a yearly 
payment of 40s. to the prior of Newstead given by John d’Estoute- 
ville his tviavus* in the time of Henry III, who confirmed it in 
the 29th year of his reign, the advowson of the church, and four 
other specified manors® and lands held of the manor of Kirkby 
by tenants for a total service of 34 knights’ fees; his heir in 
Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire being Robert his son, aged 
seven and more, born overseas.® 

On 19 Dec. 1322 the custody of the lands of the heir in 
Eckington and Kirkby in Ashfield was granted to Thomas Wake 
at a yearly rent of 90/2. ;? and on the following 17 Jan. the tenure 
of Hervey de Stanton in the manor of Dedham was confirmed 
at a yearly rent of 20 marks during the heir’s minority. On 1 
April 1324 Lora, John d’Estouteville’s widow, was granted by 
the king with the assent of Thomas Wake the manor of Kirkby 
in Ashfield in dower.® Subsequently the manor was committed 
to the keepers of the lands of aliens of the power of the king of 
France in co. Nottingham as she was born of that power ;! but the 
commission was revoked on 18 May 1327 at the request of Queen 
Isabella On 28 Oct. 1330 the escheator was ordered to deliver 
to Lora a third of the manor of Dedham, assigned to her in dower.}2 


1 Hodgson, Northumberland, part ii, vol. ii, p. 49, and Northumberland 
County History, vi, 190, his seal bearing the same arms; the interest was 
due to his mother’s first marriage with Alexander de Baliol. 

2 Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1307-13, p. 519; 1313-17, p. 332 ; 1317-21, pp. 227, 
257. 

3 Christian name not deciphered. 

* This as Thoroton noted (Nottinghamshire, ed. Throsby, ii, 292) 
should be avus. This gift, with corresponding details, made by his grand- 
father John d’Estouteville was confirmed by Henry III on 4 Sept. 1245 
(Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1232-47, p. 460). 

> Including Barton in Fabis held by Nicholas de Stuteville for 4 k.f. 
(he being his first cousin, the son and heir of his uncle Stutus); and also 
Gunby [co. Lincoln] held by Robert de Bretevill (his distant cousin) for $k.f. 

“Cal. Ing. p.m:; Vi, ao. 417. 

7 Cal. Fine Rolls, 1319-27, p. 191. 

§ Ibid., p. 195. The custody was extended to Hervey’s executors after 
his death before Feb. 1328-9 (Cal. Ing. p.m., vii, no. 206). 

9 Cal. Close Rolls, 1323-27, pp. 82, 86. 

10 [bid., p. 414. 
11 [bid., 1327-30, p. 127. 
12 Ibid., 1330-33, p. 69. 


THE STUTEVILLE FAMILIES 65 


ROBERT D’ESTOUTEVILLE, son and heir, was still in the 
wardship of Thomas Wake in March 1334-5... But when he 
attained full age the lands of aliens were taken into the king’s 
hand in view of the approaching war. On 25 July 1337 the king 
granted the manor of Dedham to Robert de Ufford, lately created 
earl of Suffolk ; and on 25 Sept. the manors of Kirkby in Ashfield 
and Eckington, lately held by John d’Estouteville, by birth of 
the parts of Normandy, to Hugh de Audley, lately created earl 
of Gloucester, Margaret his wife and the heirs male of his body.’ 
On 1 March 1339-40 the reversion of those two manors, escheats 
by the forfeiture of Robert son and heir of John d’Estouteville, 
was granted to John Darcy ‘le cousyn’.3 


Thus closed the interest of the younger branch of the 
Estoutevilles of Valmont in the inheritance of their ancestress 
Leonia daughter of Edward of Salisbury, which had descended 
to them from the twelfth century. 


APPENDIX A. 
GEOFFREY MURDAC AND THE CLAIMS OF THURSTAN DE MONTFORT 


In 1115-18 Geoffrey Murdac held 1 carucate 6 bovates in 
Kettleby Thorpe and Bigby, co. Lincoln.4 This holding evidently 
represented almost the entire tenancy-in-chief in 1086 of Hugh 
son of Baldric of 10 bovates in Kettleby Thorpe with a berewick 
of 54 bovates in Bigby.® If this holding of Hugh son of Baldric 
passed with other holdings to Robert de Stuteville I, it can be 
suggested that after the latter’s forfeiture in 1106 Geoffrey 
Murdac acquired the holding as a tenancy-in-chief. 

Geoffrey Murdac was the first witness to archbishop 
Thurstan’s charter to the men of Beverley, 1115-28 ;° and in 
1128 witnessed the charter of king David and archbishop Thurstan’s 
declaration relating to the consecration of the bishop of St. 
Andrews.” In 1130 he rendered account of 15 marks of silver 
imposed by the justices at Blyth,® which indicates his tenure of 
lands in Yorkshire. He was the donor of 14 carucates in Sutton 
by Stamford Bridge to St. Mary’s abbey,® a gift which was sub- 
sequently confirmed by Robert de Stuteville ITI. 


1 Cal. Ing. p.m., vii, no. 683. 

2 Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1334-38, pp. 479, 522. 

3 Ibid., 1338-40, p. 458. 

4 Lindsey Survey, Lincoln Rec. Soc., p. 250. In 1212 Nicholas de 
Stuteville held precisely the same amount in the two places, his two tenants 
of that holding doing the service of 4 k.f. (Bk. of Fees, p. 158); see Chapter 
LV, 82. 

5 Lincs. Domesday, Lincoln Rec. Soc., p. 117. Hugh’s tenant was 
named Gilbert. 

SB VeC 4h, MOw os 

7 Lawrie, Early Scottish Charters, pp. 64-5. 

8 Pipe Roll 31 Hen. I, p. 28, Yorks. and Northumberland roll. 

9 Charter no. 70 and the notes thereto. 10 Charter no. 4. 


66 STUTEVILLE FEE 


The following proceedings show that he had a daughter 
Juliana who married Thurstan de Montfort! In Michaelmas 
term 1208 the latter’s grandson, a younger Thurstan de Montfort, 
claimed a moiety of the vill of Langton [E.R.] with its appur- 
tenances against Eustace de Vescy as his right and inheritance 
by descent from Geoffrey Murdac, who was seised thereof, to 
Juliana his (Geoffrey's) daughter, who had held that land as 
her reasonable share which fell to her, and from her to Robert 
her son, and from Robert to Henry his brother, father of Thurstan 
the plaintiff, to whom it ought to descend, as he said ; the case 
was postponed. Thurstan the younger was also engaged in a 
plea of land with Nicholas de Stuteville in Yorkshire.2 In Easter 
term 1210 Nicholas de Stuteville gave the king 300 marks and 
5 palfreys for the maintenance of his father’s charter which he 
had relating to certain lands claimed by Thurstan de Munford 
against him, and for having peace accordingly unless the king’s 
court should consider that he ought to answer ;4 and in Michaelmas 
term a day was-given them to hear judgment on 1 Dec. The 
judgment is not recorded. The scope of Thurstan’s claims is 
shown by an entry on the Pipe Roll for the year ending at 
Michaelmas 1208, when he owed 50 marks for having two writs, 
one against Eustace de Stuteville to restore a moiety of a knight’s 
fee in Little Weighton (Witton) and [North] Cave ;§ and the 
other against Nicholas de Stuteville to restore a moiety of the 
vills of Cottingham, Buttercrambe, Scrayingham and Langton, 
and a moiety of the service of 8 knights in Hessle (Hese) and other 
vills.’ 

These details suggest that Thurstan’s claim against Nicholas 
was for a moiety of the lands held in chief by Robert de Stuteville 
III in 1166.8 The basis of his claim was evidently the same as 
that of his claim against Eustace de Vescy for a moiety of the 
manor of Langton,’ that is to say by descent from Juliana daughter 
of Geoffrey Murdac. The course of his statement in the Langton 
case suggests that Geoffrey had another daughter besides Juliana ; 
and Farrer has supposed that Erneburga, wife of Robert de 
Stuteville II and mother of Robert de Stuteville III, was her 
sister. To this, however, there is a serious objection ; for of the 


1 For their daughter Juliana, second wife of Robert de Daiville, see 
charter no. 17. 2 Cuna Regis Rolls, v, 311. 

3 I[bid., p. 305. A detailed account of the Montfort family is given in 
Complete Peerage, new ed., ix, 120. For an earlier Robert de Montfort see 
charter no. 63 below ; Thurstan the elder witnessed a charter of Roger de 
Mowbray, 1154-57 (no. 125). * 

4 Curia Regis Rolls, vi, 40. > Abia... 78: 

6 See Chapter IV, §3. Eustace was probably a younger son of Robert 
de Stuteville: LED (seep: <7). 

7 Pipe Roll 10 John, p. 164. 

8 The 8 k.f. were probably those of the old feoffment given in Robert 
de Stuteville’s carta ; and for Hessle see Chapter IV, §17. 

9 This manor had been given to Burga daughter of Robert de Stuteville 
III as her maritagium when she married William de Vescy, Eustace’s father 
(see Chapter 1V, §11): 

ie Be top. 358. 


APPENDIX A 67 


places mentioned in Thurstan’s claim against Nicholas de Stute- 
ville certainly Buttercrambe, Scrayingham and Langton had been 
held by Robert de Stuteville I before his forfeiture in 1106 ;! and 
therefore Robert de Stuteville III’s interest, which was sub- 
sequently inherited by Nicholas his younger son, must have been 
derived from Robert de Stuteville I, his grandfather, and not as 
an inheritance from his mother Erneburga. 

It is significant that Thurstan de Montfort, Juliana’s husband, 
held an interest in Great Ayton where he gave a rent from his 
mills to Guisborough priory. But this interest passed to the 
Stutevilles as an under-tenancy of the Meinil fee; and Farrer 
has stated that there is no evidence that any of the lands in 
Yorkshire held by Thurstan descended in his line.? The balance 
of evidence on this point suggests that Thurstan lost his interest 
in at least some part of the inheritance of his wife Juliana when 
Robert de Stuteville III recovered a portion of the possessions 
of his grandfather Robert de Stuteville I, and that Thurstan’s 
remaining interest did not survive his death. The claims made 
by his grandson were unsuccessful, though the pedigree which 
he put forward appears to be precisely correct. 

The Montfort family did not, however, abandon their 
claims ; and in Jan. 1240-1 fines were levied by which Peter de 
Montfort, claiming a moiety of the manors of Cottingham, 
Buttercrambe and Scrayingham, received sums of 100. and 
100 marks from the Stuteville representatives in return for his 
quitclaims.°® 

Taken as a whole the evidence suggests that after Robert 
de Stuteville I’s forfeiture in 1106 a considerable portion of his 
lands was acquired by Geoffrey Murdac, just as another con- 
siderable portion was acquired by Nigel d’Aubigny ; but that, 
although the latter’s portion was inherited by his Mowbray 
descendants as a tenancy in chief (not without prolonged disputes), 
Geoffrey Murdac’s portion was lost, either by him or his heirs, 
when a restoration was made to Robert de Stuteville ITT. 


APPENDIX. B. 
SOME UNPLACED MEMBERS OF THE FAMILY 


The following notes refer to some members of the Stuteville 
family who have certain points of interest, but whom it has not 
been found possible to place in the pedigrees : 


1 See the note to charter no. 1. S BLY C2), moo 1045. 

3 Ibid., p. 358 (note thereto). Farrer supposed that the reason was 
because Juliana was not the mother of Thurstan’s sons and successors 
Robert and Henry, the latter being the father of the younger Thurstan ; 
but that Juliana was Henry’s mother is proved by the terms of his charter 
making a gift of the mill of Henley in Arden (Cal. Docs. France, no. 415). 
In 1166 Thurstan held 32 k.f. of Roger de Mowbray in the latter’s carta 
(Red Bk. Exch., p. 420), but these were evidently independent of anything 
which had then been recovered by Robert de Stuteville III. 

* Complete Peerage, loc. cit. 

> Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, pp. 95, 97. Peter de Montfort was son and 
heir of Thurstan the younger. 


68 STUTEVILLE FEE 


BARTHOLOMEW DE STUTEVILLE. In 1201 there was a 
question as to whether he or Nicholas de Stuteville I had been 
seised of land in Kershope, a member of the honour of Liddel 
(see p. 14 above). A man of his name occurs as a witness to a 
charter of Robert de Stuteville IIT to Rievaulx, c. 1160-1183 (no. 
10); charters of William de Stuteville in the period 1183-1201 
(nos. 23-25) ; and agreements made by the latter, 1175-86.1 


EDMUND DE STUTEVILLE. He witnessed at Lewes a charter 
of William third earl de Warenne to the Templars.” 


EUSTACE DE STUTEVILLE. His name occurs among those 
who, added to that of Alexander king of Scotland, transmitted 
to the pope in 1244 Alexander’s charter of friendship with the 
king of England? It seems likely that he is the Eustace who 
died in 1245.4 


GEOFFREY DE STUTEVILLE. In the period 1170-75 he was 
granted 34 carucates in Gilling in Ryedale by Clement abbot 
of St. Mary’s, quitclaiming his right in the church, by a charter 
to which Robert de Stuteville [III], sheriff of Yorkshire, was a 
witness.» Not long afterwards this tenancy passed to Ralph 
de Surdeval.6 An earlier Geoffrey de Stuteville may have been 
the brother of Robert de Stuteville I (see p. 2 above); and a 
later Geoffrey de Stuteville had an interest in Thwing and in the 
advowson of a moiety of its church in 1335.’ 


NICHOLAS DE STUTEVILLE. He witnessed charters of Peter 
de Brus ITI (1240-72) to the priory of Healaugh Park,® being 
described as his steward. The Brus connexion suggests that he 
may have been a younger son of Robert de Stuteville of Ayton, 
the elder (see §5). 


OSMUND DE STUTEVILLE. On 23 Sept. 1225 archbishop 
Gray confirmed the gift of the chapel of Skidby [par. Cottingham] 
which had been made by Laurence, rector of Cottingham, with 
the assent of Nicholas [II] de Stuteville, his patron, to Osmund 
de Stuteville, clerk ; and also a grant to the same Osmund of the 
corn tithe of the vill of Claxton, belonging to the church of 
Bossall, made to him by William, rector of Bossall.° Osmund 
became rector of Cottingham before 8 March 1235-6, when the 
archbishop confirmed his grant of the corn tithe of the chapel of 
Skidby to Alan de Wausand for life. As rector of Cottingham 


1 F.Y.C., i, nos. 509-10. 2 Tbid., viii, no. 46. 
3 Matthew Paris, Chron. Maj., Rolls Ser., iv, 383-4. 
4 Ibid., p. 492. 


5 FE.Y.C., ili, no. 1878 ; where Farrer notes that Geoffrey was amerced 
40s. for a forest trespass in 1176. 

6 Tbid., nos. 1881-2. 

7 Yorks. Fines, 1327-47, p. 80. He was probably a member of the 
younger branch of Cottingham (§6 above), with a wife Margaret and an 
interest in Risby and Cottingham in 1339 (ibid., p. 137). i 

8 Healaugh Park Chartulary, pp. 59, 67, 72. 

9 Ibid., pp. 59, 68, 70. ' 

10 Reg. Gray, p. 9. i? Ibid, p. 73: 


APPENDIX B 69 


Osmund de Stuteville recognized the right of Meaux abbey, in 
settlement of a dispute, to the tithes of hay within his parish.t 
On 21 Dec. 1272: John: le Bygod, clerk, was presented to the 
church of Cottingham by dame Joan de Stuteville; and an 
inquisition on 7 Jan. 1272-3 found that the church had been 
vacant since 9 Dec. 1272 by the death of Osmund de Stuteville, 
late rector? 


RICHARD DE STUTEVILLE. Described as ‘praeclarus quidam 
baro de partibus Angliae borealibus’, he died on 11 Aug. 1244.3 


ROBERT DE STUTEVILLE (of Pocklington). In the period 
Michaelmas 1201 to Michaelmas 1203 the men of the royal manor 
of Pocklington made payments for the farm of the vill.4 At the 
latter term their payment was for half the year, before the gift 
of 30i2. of the farm was made to Robert de Stuteville, who had 
to answer for the balance of 10/7. from the total farm of 40/1. 
The 301. was credited to him at Michaelmas 1204 ;§ and at the 
following Michaelmas he accounted for three quarters of the 
year, being then disseised of the farm, his chattels being sold ; 
and for the last quarter the sheriff accounted as custos.” At 
Michaelmas 1209 he made a final payment for an outstanding 
debt for the farm. 


Mac. ROBERT DE STUTEVILLE. It is recorded that in 1253 
he was chosen by the canons as bishop of St. Andrews, but that 
his election was set aside by the pope.® He can therefore be 
identified as Robert dean of Dunkeld, the annulment of whose 
election was announced by the pope on 18 March 1253-4.1° 


ROBERT DE STUTEVILLE. On 27 May 1305 Edward prince 
of Wales wrote to the king’s justices asking them, as he had 
heard that a great trespass was made on Robert de Stuteville, 
valet of his dear cousin dame Joan Wake," whereby he was 
maimed for life by William de Ste-Barbe, to do right and make 
amends in view of his good service to her.” 


1 Meaux Chartulary, Lansdowne MS. 424, new f. 133. 
2 Reg. Giffard, pp. 58-9. 
3 M. Paris, Hist. Minor, ii, 493 ; Chron. Mayj., iv, 381. 
4 Pipe Roll 3 John, p. 144; 4 John, p. 48; 5 John, p. 199. 
3 Ibid. 8 John, p. 199. 6 Ibid. 6 John, p. 193. 
7 Ibid. 7 John, pp. 41, 46. Letters patent to take his land of Pocklington 
into the kg’s hand are dated 23 June 1205 (Rot. Claus., i, 39a). 
8 Pipe Roll 11 John, p. 128. 
9 Chron. de Lanercost, Bannatyne Club, p. 58. 
1° Cal, Papal Letters, i, 296. 
11 Widow of John, lord Wake of Liddel. 
12 Letters of Edward Prince of Wales, Roxburghe Club, p. 13. 


CHAPTER II. 
THE LANDS OF THE STUTEVILLE FEE 


No member of the Stuteville family appears among the 
tenants-in-chief, nor with any certainty among their under- 
tenants, in the Domesday survey. MSBut shortly afterwards a 
considerable number of holdings had passed to Robert de Stute- 
ville I. Of his holdings in Yorkshire a large proportion had been 
held by Hugh son of Baldric in 1086. In his introduction to the 
Yorkshire Domesday Farrer collected the available details which 
concern Hugh son of Baldric, and showed that he was of Norman 
origin.t Described as Hugh son of Baldric, sheriff of York, he 
gave the tithe of Stratfield, Hampshire, and Shaw, Berkshire, to 
the abbey of Préaux, dio. Lisieux, his gift being confirmed by 
William I, c. 1080 ;? and he is mentioned in charters of Gerold 
‘miles Christi’ to the abbey of St. Amand, Rouen, in one as a 
witness and in the other as apparently possessing an interest 
in one of Gerold’s benefactions.4 The name Baldric was not | 
uncommon in Normandy in the eleventh century ; and there are 
several mentions of the name in Orderic. There was, for instance, 
a Baldric Teutonicus who came with Wigerius his brother to 
Normandy to serve Richard II, duke of Normandy from 996 to 
1026.5 Orderic records that he had six sons, the eldest being 
Nicholas de Baschevilla [Bacqueville-en-Caux],@ and another 
Baldric de Balgenzeio [Bocquencé].’ A Nicholas de Bascavilla is 
named in a charter to St. Amand, Rouen, in company with 
William duke of Normandy, not later than 1066.8 In the period 
1066-87 a certain Baldric quitclaimed to that house the service 
of two knights which the nuns owed for 40 days yearly for the 
fee of Bacqueville (Bascheville), until he or his heirs rendered 
3011. which he owed to them for his sister Elizabeth, made a nun 
there ;§ and Orderic records that a Baldric, who possessed the 

1 V C.H. YorkRs., 11, 176-9. 2 Cal. Docs. France, no. 318. 

3 Gerold was the grandfather of William de Roumare, earl of Lincoln 
(Complete Peerage, new ed., vii, 667). 

4 Cal. Docs.. France, no. 87 (ante Aug. 1067), and no 88 (in 1067). 
The places include Roumare and Barentin, arr. Rouen ; and Le Bourg-Dun 
and Arques, arr. Dieppe; all in dept. Seine-Inférieure. The remaining 
place is ‘Gonnevilla’ or ‘Gounovilla’; see the note below. 

5 Ovderic Vitalis, ed. Le Prévost, u, 75. He is probably Baldric, the 
duke’s archer, mentioned elsewhere (zb7d., 11, 35). 

6 Seine-Inf., arr. Dieppe, cant. Bacqueville. 

7 Orne, arr. Argentan, cant. La Ferté-Fresnel. 

& Stapleton,’ Kot. Norm. Scacc., 1i,.cxxxix; the text is pd. by Mile. 
M-J. Le Cacheux in “Hist. de l’abbaye de St-Amand de Rouen’ (Bulletin 
Soc: Ant. de Normandie, xliv, 1936), p. 250, both places mentioned being 
in cant. Bacqueville and the grantor was Gulbert, presumably Gulbert 
d’ Auffay. 

9 Haskins, Norman Institutions, p. 20. At a later date Bacqueville 
was held by a family called Martel, for whom see L. C. Loyd’s notes in 
Anglo-Norman Families, Harl. Soc., p. 60. William Martel founded the 
priory of Bacqueville in 1133, and in the following year he gave the church 


LANDS OF THE STUTEVILLE FEE 7 


honour of Bocquencé with Wiger his brother, gave his sister 
Elizabeth to Fulk de Bonneval in marriage, and that Fulk gave 
the church of St-Nicholas [-des-Laitiers],) which Baldric’s father 
had built, to the abbey of St-Evroul in the time of abbot Robert, 
1059-61.2, There are, too, references to a Baldric son of Nicholas, 
who in 1085 witnessed the determination of a suit between 
Gulbert d’Auffay and the abbey of Fécamp in the presence of 
king William,’ and in 1087 left the duke’s service and went to 
Spain, his lands being forfeited and subsequently restored.4 

It seems, therefore, that we have three generations—Baldric 
Teutonicus, his son Nicholas de Bacqueville, and the latter’s son® 
Baldric, whose approximate years of birth may have been c. 975, 
c. 1000, c. 1025. It is tempting to suggest that Hugh son of Baldric 
was a younger son of this younger Baldric ; but for this there are 
chronological difficulties, seeing that Hugh was sheriff of York- 
shire as early as 1069 and was old enough to have two married 
daughters in 1086. At the same time it is not impossible to 
suppose, in view of the St. Amand evidence, that he belonged to 
that family. Moreover, it can be noticed, for what the evidence 
may be worth, that Bacqueville hes about 74 and 9 miles res- 
pectively from Le Bourg-Dun and Arques, mentioned in the charter 
of Gerold ‘miles Christi’; and that at Gonneville-les-Hameaux, 
cant. Totes (much the same distance from Bacqueville) a gift of 
land which had been held by a Walter son of Baldric was made to 
the priory of Longueville Having regard to the association of 
these names Walter and Baldric, it is curious to find that in 
Yorkshire a certain Walter son of Baldric de Cotingham witnessed 
a charter to Rievaulx abbey ;§ and that a Baldric de Cothigham 


of Bacqueville to the abbey of Tiron by a charter which was witnessed and 
assented to by his three brothers of whom one was named Baldric (Cal. 
Docs. France, nos. 1008-9)—a fact which suggests that his mother may 
have been of the ‘Baldric’ family. 

1 Orne, arr. Argentan, cant. La Ferté-Fresnel. 

2 Orderic, ii, 76. In1091-1126 Billehildis wife of Baldric de Balchenceio 
gave to St-Evroul tithe of her demesne, with the consent of her sons Robert, 
lord of the honour, and Baldric, who confirmed their father’s and ancestors’ 
gifts ; witnessed by Wigerius their patruus and Fulk his son (Roll of St- 
Evroul in appendix to Le Prévost’s edition of Orderic, v, 184). For other 
references to a connexion between Bocquencé and St-Evroul see ibid. ii, 
35, 74-5 ; v, 176; and cf. Haskins, op. ctt., p. 12. 

3 Chevreux et Vernier, Les Archives de Normandie, facsimile, plate 
vii; Cal. Docs. France, no. 116 (inaccurately). Auffay is about 6 miles 
from Bacqueville. 

4 Orderic, iii, 248. 

_ 3% P. Le Cacheux, Chartes du prieuré de Longueville, p. 29; a general 
confirmation of pope Alexander III in 1178. There are several places named 
Gonneville in Normandy. It is possible that the Gonneville mentioned in 
Gerold’s charter is Gonneville-les-Hameaux. Actually, however, it is 
identified by Mlle. Le Cacheux as Gonneville-sur-Honfleur (op. cit., p. 179). 
It is difficult to dispute this authority, but that place is in dept. Calvados, 
whereas all the other places in Gerold’s charter are in dept. Seine-Inférieure, 
where Round (index to Cal. Docs. France) located the Gonneville in question. 
Certainly St. Amand had possessions in cant. Totes (Mlle. Le Cacheux, 
op. cit., pp. 167, 170). 

i. y.C., 1, no. 639; dated by. Farrer 1180-90. 


72 STUTEVILLE FEE 


(who may have been his father) witnessed a charter which was 
also witnessed by several members of the Stuteville family.1 As 
Cottingham was one of the principal holdings of Hugh son of 
Baldric which passed to the Stutevilles a coincidence of this kind 
must not be altogether disregarded. 


§2. 


In England Hugh son of Baldric was an important tenant- 
in-chief in Yorkshire, and to a smaller extent in Lincolnshire ; he 
also held two manors in Nottinghamshire, single holdings in 
Wiltshire and Berkshire,? and interests in four holdings in 
Hampshire. The latter included Church Oakley and Stratfield, 
which after being known as Stratfield Stuteville became Stratfield 
Saye. It is of special importance for our present purpose to 
notice that these places were held by the Estoutevilles of Valmont. 
It can be deduced that Nicholas d’Estouteville their ancestor 
was of the same family as Robert de Stuteville I, and that the 
latter was probably the successor of Hugh son of Baldric in 
these places as he was in so large a portion of Hugh’s holdings in 
Yorkshire.’ 

Farrer has given evidence on which he based his suggestion 
that Hugh son of Baldric died shortly after the completion of the 
Survey and whilst the Summary was being compiled.4 Although 
a forfeiture must not be ruled out, it seems clear that he was 
not in possession of his holdings after the Conqueror’s death. 
The Survey shows that he had then two sons-in-law, one, named 
Walter, who was his tenant at Marden, Wiltshire,® and the other, 
Guy [de Craon], who held of him a manor of 3 bovates in Sloothby, 
and a manor of a carucate in Claxby St. Andrew, with soke 
amounting to 8 carucates 1 bovate in six places named, all in 
the wapentake of Calcewath, co. Lincoln. That makes a total of 
94 carucates ; and it is recorded in the Lindsey survey that Alan 
de Craon held as a tenant-in-chief 10 carucates in that wapentake.? 
Later evidence shows that places in Lincolnshire held by the 
Craon family in chief correspond with those held by Guy de 
Craon of Hugh son of Baldric in 1086.8 But there is no evidence 
that Alan de Craon held any other of Hugh’s possessions in 
Lincolnshire ;? and certainly none of Hugh’s holdings in Yorkshire 

1 E.Y.C., i, no. 48; the charter of William Pantulf to Burga his wife 
cited at p. 25 above. 

2 At Shaw (see above). 

3 See Chapter I, §7 above, where it is suggested that Nicholas was 
the eldest son of Robert IL son of Robert I. 

‘VCs, Vorks,ay, 178. > 0.8, 1,573. 

6 Lincs. Domesday, Lincoln Rec. Soc., pp. 117-8. 

7 Lindsey Survey, Lincoln Rec. Soc., p. 254. 

3 (BR. of £¢es, px 1059. 

9 Apart from anything which may have passed to Robert de Stuteville I 
most of them can be traced as having been granted to a variety of people 
quite unconnected with Hugh ; e.g. to the count of Meulan; see V.C.H. 
Yorks., li, 178. Similarly for Hugh’s holdings in Nottinghamshire at Kil- 
vington and Cuckney (7bid., p. 179). 


LANDS OF THE STUTEVILLE FEE 73 


passed to the Craon family. Moreover, in South Warnborough, 
Hampshire, where Alan de Craon made a gift to Frieston priory, 
co. Lincoln,? the interest in 1086 had been held of Hugh by Guy 
[de Craon] with Hugh’s daughter.? It can be deduced, therefore, 
that none of Hugh’s holdings passed to his issue except those 
which, in his lifetime, had formed the maritagium of one or 
other of his two daughters. 


The details relating to Hugh’s tenancy-in-chief in Lincoln- 
shire show that it consisted mainly of 20 small manors, which, 
with the berewicks and sokeland attached, had a total of about 
30 carucates. The descent of two of these manors, Kettleby 
Thorpe and Bigby, which were later held by the Stutevilles in 
chief, has been discussed in Appendix A above. Hugh also had 
a holding in the city of Lincoln which certainly passed to Robert 
de Stuteville 14 


In Yorkshire Hugh son of Baldric held about 50 manors 
with many berewicks and sokeland, assessed at approximately 
410 carucates. The greater part of these holdings passed, pre- 
sumably by royal grant, to Robert de Stuteville I; and after his 
forfeiture in 1106 they were taken into the king’s hand. Many 
of them,‘ including Cottingham and apparently Scrayingham and 
Buttercrambe, were restored to Robert de Stuteville III in the 
reign of Stephen ; and at an earlier date, in the reign of Henry I, 
a substantial portion of the remainder was granted to Nigel 
d’Aubigny, from whom it was inherited by his son Roger de 
Mowbray, forming part of the honour of Mowbray. These Mowbray 
lands in Yorkshire included (1) those which were acquired by 
Robert de Stuteville III, early in the reign of Henry II, as an 
under-tenancy of Roger de Mowbray, forming part of the initial 
compromise of the claims brought by Robert for all the possessions 
of his grandfather which had passed to the honour of Mowbray ; 
and (ii) those in which the descendants of Robert de Stuteville I 
never recovered any interest, either as a tenancy-in-chief or as 
an under-tenancy. 


Details of these Yorkshire lands are given in the following 
tables: 


Lands in Yorkshire held by Hugh son of Baldric in 1086 
which certainly or almost certainly passed to Robert de Stute- 
ville 1; 


+ Mon. Ang.,.1v, 126. 

2D Bd, 4B: 

3 See charter no. 2. A suggestion as to a similar transition in three 
other places in Lincs. is given in the note to no. 41. 

* The tables given below suggest that of Hugh’s total holding of 
approximately 50 manors, about a half of them were held by Robert de 
Stuteville III as a tenancy-in-chief, though the carucage (c. 90 car.) was a 
much smaller proportion. 


74 STUTEVILLE FEE 


(a) those recovered in whole or part by Robert de Stute- 
ville III as tenancies-in-chief :1 


car: boy. 
2M Cawton, par. Gilling 4 0) §5 
M Sutton under Whitestone Cliffe 2 5 0 §6 
M Marderby, par. Felixkirk > 3 0 §6 
2M ‘Fridebi’, par. Felixkirk * 3 0 §7 
B Ravensthorpe J 0 §7 
M Boltby, par. Felixkirk 3 0 §7 
B Ravensthorpe 1 0 §7 
M Cowesby 3 0 $4 
M Laysthorpe, par. Stonegrave 2 0 $6 
M Scrayingham * 8 0 §1 
B Barnby, par. Bossall 3 0 §§9, 10 
B Bossall 2 4 $10 
B Buttercrambe 1 4 $1 
M & B_ Buttercrambe® 2 0 $1 
Scrayingham 4 0 $1 
Flaxton 2 §] 
2M Cottingham ” 14% $1 
with Pillwoods 2 0 
M Little Weighton, par. Rowley ®* 5 0 §§2, 3 
B North Cave Z §3 
M Hunsley, par. Rowley ° 2 4 
M Skipwith ?!° 3 oe §2 
2M Etton 9 2 §18 
M ‘Torp’ [in Etton] 1 0 §18 
2M Skerne ! 2 6 0 §18 
Cranswick and Hutton Cranswick ! 2 p} 0 §18 
M Stillingfleet 1 4 §4 
M Moreby, par. Stillingfleet Or 
M&B_ Langton?* 18 0 §11 
Kennythorpe ys 5 
Burdale 6 0 
Raisthorpe 1 0 
Sherburn S} 0 §8 
East Heslerton 3 0) 


1 The places follow the order of Hugh son of Baldric’s holdings as 
recorded in the Survey (V.C.H. Yorks., 1i, 274-8). The sectional numbers 
are those of the fees given in Robert de Stuteville III’s carta of 1166 (Chapter 
IV, no. 67), or of the fees created at a later date. 

2 A priest and mill. > A priest. 

* Given as in Thirlby, par. Felixkirk, in V.C.H., and ‘may represent 
what was later known as Felixkirk’ in Place-Names of N.R., Eng. Place- 
Name Soc., p. 199. 

5 A church and priest. 6 A mill. 

; 7 A mill and 5 fisheries. Allocation between it and Pillwoods follows 
the Summary. 

8 A church, probably at Rowley, a priest, and 2 mills. Allocation 
between it and North Cave follows the Summary. 

° The bishop of Durham had a holding of the same amount. For 
Robert de Stuteville I’s gift to the priory see the note to charter no. 1. 

10 A church and priest. 11 5 car. in Summary. 

12 These are included in view of the subsequent Stuteville tenure (see 
p. 19 above). The allocation follows the Summary. Farrer supposed that 
Hugh son of Baldric’s holding in Skerne and Hutton Cranswick passed to 
the Fossard fee (V.C.. Yorks» ui, 179 ;and cf. 2. Y.C., u;°%p. 408) ; but the 
Fossard holding, being 94 car. in Hutton Cranswick under the count of 
Mortain at the Survey, seems to have been quite distinct. 

+3 See charter no. 1. 

14 Two churches, 2 priests and a mill. Allocation follows the Summary ; 
the Text gives a total of 39 car. 


LANDS OF THE STUTEVILLE FEE 75 


(6) those granted to Nigel d’Aubigny, which formed part 
of the feoffment of 10 knights’ fees made by Roger de 
Mowbray to Robert de Stuteville III : 


car. bov. 

Kilburn 
Wildon 3 
Kirkby Moorside! 5 
“Waletun’ 4 
8 
0 
2 


ne 


Hutton le Hole 

Gillamoor 1 
Hoveton 

Welburn 5 
‘Middleham’ 

Harome 

Nawton 

Great Barugh 27 + 
Normanby 

Kirby Misperton 

Ryton 

Little Barugh 


(c) those granted for the most part to Nigel d’Aubigny 
which, although held by Robert de Stuteville I, did 
not form part of the feoffment made by Roger de 
Mowbray to Robert de Stuteville III : 

They include 


SSS Sey 


vollceRvckevlvelvclvelvvmosheemechvvlcvl—<4 


car. bov. 

M Coxwold 10 0 
berewicks 19 7 

M Hovingham 8 0 
berewicks 2 32 0) 

and almost certainly several others, e.g. 

M Thirsk 12 0 
berewicks * 8 0 

M Bagby - 5 0 
berewicks * 12 0 

M Gilling in Ryedale 4 0 
M&B_ Brandsby el 0 
2M Bainton 11 0 


In addition to the lands formerly held by Hugh son of 
Baldric there is evidence to show that other lands in Yorkshire 
formed part of Robert de Stuteville’s tenancy-in-chief. His 
gift of the vill of Harton, par. Bossall, to St. Mary’s abbey, which 
was confirmed by his grandson Robert de Stuteville III, and was 
represented by the 12 carucates there in the confirmation charter 


1 A priest and a church [Kirkdale], and a mill. 

2 One of these berewicks, East Ness, became a member of the Cowesby 
fee held by the Stutevilles in chief ; see Chapter IV, §4. 

3 This list can probably be extended for a few further holdings of 
less importance, which are more properly the subject of examination in a 
survey of the honour of Mowbray. For the church of St. Andrew, York, 
held by Hugh son of Baldric in 1086 see charter no. 118 below. 

* One of these berewicks, Newsham, par. Kirby Wiske, also became 
a member of the Cowesby fee. 

5 One of these berewicks, Kirby Knowle, may have formed part of 
the feoffment to Robert de Stuteville III, and so would be exceptional ; 
see Chapter IV, $12. 


76 STUTEVILLE FEE 


of king Henry II, shows that he had acquired these 12 carucates 
which were terra regis at the Survey; and it is probable that 
together with at least part of the terra regis in Sutton by Stamford 
Bridge, they had been the subject of a royal grant. Further 
holdings of Robert de Stuteville [ lay in Ellenthorpe, par. 
Aldborough, where he gave a carucate to St. Mary’s, York; and 
in Myton-upon-Swale, where he shared with Robert de Meinil in a 
gift of 8 carucates to the same house.2 Finally, there is some 
evidence to suppose that Robert de Stuteville I became possessed 
of several other holdings, including lands held by Geoffrey de 
Wirce at the Survey in the counties of Lincoln, Warwick, Leicester, 
Nottingham and Northampton, which subsequently formed part 
of the honour of Mowbray ; but this is by no means conclusive.? 
§3. 

At a date subsequent to 1166 several additions were made 
to the tenancy-in-chief then held by Robert de Stuteville III. 
He himself obtained from the king, perhaps at an earlier date, 
land in Cold Kirby. His son William received several grants 
from Henry II, including the important manors of Knaresborough 
and Aldborough ; but William’s interest did not survive the death 
of his son Robert while still a minor, and a detailed examination 
of their components is outside the scope of the present volume.® 
He also acquired an interest in Bramham and Clifford, which passed 
to the Wakes with his Stuteville inheritance. At some date 
about 1174 Nicholas de Stuteville I, William’s younger brother, 
was granted the honour of Liddel in Cumberland, accompanied 
by lands in Cleveland, with which it had earlier been associated, 
known as the honour of Rosedale. These two honours became 
incorporated with the other Stuteville tenancies-in-chief under 
Nicholas I, as heir to his nephew Robert, and with them descended 
to the Wakes of Liddel. The final settlement of the Mowbray 
dispute in 1201 increased the original under-tenancy of 10 knights’ 
fees by a further 9 knights’ fees and land in Brinklow, co. Warwick.’ 
In the thirteenth century onwards the returns of fees and various 
inquisitions after death give a detailed, though by no means a 
comprehensive or consistent picture of the Stuteville possessions 
which passed to the Wakes; and an examination is necessary 
before any general deductions can be suggested. 

1 Note to charter no. 4. 

2 Note to charter no. 1. In Ellenthorpe 6 car. were soke of the king’s 
manor of Aldborough, and of these 4 car. were given to St. Mary’s by Wimar 
the steward of the honour of Richmond (E.Y.C., v, no. 138). 

3 The evidence is based on the quitclaims made by William de Stuteville 
to William de Mowbray in 1201; see charter no. 43 and the note thereto. 
A similar deduction may be made for certain holdings at Bonby and else- 
where in co. Lincoln, where actually Hugh son of Baldric had an interest 
at the Survey ; see the note to charter no. 41. 

4 See p. 6 above, and Chapter IV, §5. 

3 Several details relating thereto are given in the note to E.Y.C., i, 
no. 508. 


6 See Chapter [V, §16; also note to charter no. 36. 
7 Charters nos. 41-44. 


LANDS OF THE STUTEVILLE FEE Vi 


Except for some references to the honour of Liddel' and to 
the holding in [Kettleby] Thorpe and Bigby, co. Lincoln,? the 
returns entered in the Book of Fees throw no appreciable light 
on the tenancies-in-chief of the main English branch of the 
Stuteville family ;3 for there are no Yorkshire returns comparable 
to the detailed returns of 1212 and 1242-43 for Lincolnshire and 
other counties.4 But several references relate to the Stuteville 
under-tenancy of the honour of Mowbray. There are lists for 
several counties of the fees held of Nigel de Mowbray, who was in 
possession of the honour from 1224 to 1230.2 In Yorkshire 
Nicholas de Stuteville [II] held of him 3 fees in Erton’, Aton’ 
and elsewhere,* and 2 carucates in Glapham’ where 12 carucates 
made a knight’s fee ; in the return for Warwickshire and Leicester- 
shire Nicholas held 74 fees and 4/,; part in Thrussington and 
Sysonby ; in Buckinghamshire $ fee in Burston ;8 and in Sussex 
2 fees, the place or places being left blank. A few years later, in 
1242-43, among the fees held of Roger de Mowbray, Nigel’s 
successor, in Yorkshire, Joan Wake is given as holding 3 fees ; 
but their locality is not recorded.® Additional light is thrown by 
other returns. Thus, in 1235-36 Roger de Welton ‘pro feodo de 
Mubray de parvo feodo de Mortuna’ [Mortain] was assessed on 
one fee in Staverton, one in Welton and one in Grimscote, all 
co. Northampton ;!° and in 1242-43, among Roger de Mowbray’s 
tenancy-in-chief in that county, Roger de Whelton held these 3 
- fees in the same places of Joan Wake.™ Again, in 1235-36, Thomas 
de Wappebury held a knight’s fee in Wappenbury and another in 
Newbold [Revel], co. Warwick ; and also 4 fee of Mowbray in 
Thrussington, where Gilbert de Houby also held a fee, and Hugh 
de Pereres held a fee in Sysonby and Welby, co. Leicester.!2 There 
is also a record of a holding in 1242-43 by Adam de Welton of 
the honour of Mortain in part of Burston, co. Buckingham 
(Bridelesthon’).8 


1 Bk. of Fees, p. 198.. See Chapter IV, §19. 

2 1bid., p. 1O8. See Chapter EV, $2. 

3 Several valuable details are given for the holdings juve uxoris of 
William de Stuteville of Richard’s Castle (see Chapter I, §4), and for John 
d’Estuteville of the main Norman line (§7). 

4 The knights’ fees held of certain Yorkshire honours are available 
for 1242-43 (pp. 1097-1104), but the Stuteville-Wake tenancy-in-chief, is 
not included. 

> pp. 1460-2, 1467. 

6 This is difficult to understand. Irton and East Ayton, wap. Pickering 
Lythe, suggest themselves ; but they were members of the Percy fee (V.C.H., 
N.R., ii, 486). 

7 This must be Clapham (W.R.); but no further Stuteville connexion 
seems to be known. 

8 Par. Aston Abbots; little seems to be known of the Mowbray- 
Stuteville interest, of which there is no mention in the account of Burston 
in V.C.H. Buckingham, iii, 328-30. 

9 Bk. of Fees, p. 1097. 

10 p, 496-7 ; and cf. p. 502. 11 p, 933. 

12 pp. 509, 519. In 1224-30 Thomas de Wappenbyr’ held 24 k.f. of 
Nigel de Mowbray in cos. Warwick and Leicester (p. 1462). 

13 p». 877 ; apparently a Mowbray tenure-in-chief. 


78 STUTEVILLE ‘FRE 


After the death of Joan de Stuteville inquisitions were held 
in Cumberland and Yorkshire, following the writ of 6 April 1276.4 
She held the barony and forest of Liddel and demesne lands in 
Arthuret and other places named, where several tenants held at 
money rents, and the advowson of Easton, all being held of the 
king in chief by the service of 56s. cornage at the king’s exchequer 
at Carlisle and suit at Cumberland county court; and of the 
same tenure Cropton and Middleton, co. York, which Nicholas 
Wake held of her by service unknown. In Yorkshire she held the 
manor of Kirkby Moorside, of which an extent was given, of the 
heir of Mowbray by the service of 10 knights, of which manor 
she had enfeoffed her son Baldwin two years previously by charter. 
She also held in chief the manor of Cottingham, of which an 
extent was given, with Buttercrambe, Scrayingham and Langton, 
by the service of 3 knights; and of these Baldwin Wake held 
Buttercrambe and Scrayingham, and John de Vescy the manor of 
Langton, so that she only held Cottingham in demesne at her 
death. She also held the advowsons of Cottingham, Rowley, Etton, 
Scrayingham and Middleton, and there are details of her bondmen 
and beasts in Cottingham, Hull [Bank], Newland, Wolfreton [in 
Kirk Ella], and Newton [in Cottingham]. But there is no record 
of the knights’ fees held of her, and there are no returns for 
Warwickshire or other counties. 


Information in greater detail is given in the several extents 
made in March 1281-2 after the death of Baldwin Wake.? These 
include his inherited Wake possessions, principally the manor of 
Bourne, co. Lincoln, with a large number of knights’ fees spread 
over several counties, which are outside the scope of the present 
inquiry. Of the Stuteville lands which he inherited from his 
mother, he held the manor of Liddel, of which a full extent was 
given, tenants in a large number of places holding their lands by 
cornage amounting to 56s. yearly, and a knight’s fee being held 
in Drigg in Copeland. He held the manor of [Great] Ayton in 
Cleveland of Sir Nicholas de Meinil in chief for half a knight’s 
fee, with lands there and in Thornaby and Hemlington, where, 
in the latter place, the widow of Robert de Stuteville was holding 
the manor in dower.? The following knights’ fees are given as 
pertaining to the manor of Cottingham, where 8 carucates were 
_ held in demesne :— 


Hessle. 4 k.f. held by the heirs of Adam de Traneby [$17] 
Etton. 4 k.f. Henry de Eton [§18] 
[Little] Weighton and North Cave.4 ?k.f. John de Meus [§3] 


1 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 195; Yorks. Ing., i, no. 97, for the Yorkshire 
portion, given in greater detail. 

2 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439; Yorks. Ing., i, no. 131, for the Yorkshire 
portions, given in greater detail. 

+ See Chapter 1, $5. 

4 This is preceded by an entry of 24 fees held by the heirs of Grace de 
Insula in Donington, Hemingby, Navenby and Glentham, co. Lincoln. It 
is difficult to see how this tenure could have pertained to the manor of 
Cottingham, for part at least was a member of the honour of Chester ; for 


LANDS OF THE SLUTEVILLE FEE 79 


Willerby, Wolfreton and Sculcoates. 4k.f. John de Meus 

Brantingham. 1/,, k.f. John de Kente. 

Elstronwick. + k.f. John de Pateshulle. 

Skipwith and [Little] Weighton, and [Kettleby| Thorpe, 
co. Lincoln. 1 k.f. John de Skipwik and his parceners 
(§2] 

Cottingham. 1/,, k.f. John Takel. 


And the following as pertaining to the manor of Butter- 
crambe, which included a messuage and lands in Scrayingham :— 


Boltby, Ravensthorpe and Thirlby. 1 k.f. Alan de Walking- 
ham [§7] 

Cowesby, [East] Ness, Stillingfleet, Riplingham, and 
Brantingham. 2 k.f. Jordan Folyet [§4] 

Cawton. 4k.f. William de Lasceles [§5] 

Bossall and Claxton. ?k.f. John de Bossale [§10] 

Sherburm,-1 kel, —.Johm de Vesey (Ss) 

Langton. Jka. John-de Vescy (sil) 

Upsall, [South] Kilvington, and Thornbrough. 1 k.f. 
Geoffrey de Upsale [§12] 

Slingsby. 1 k.f. Robert Chambard [§13] 

Flawith and Tholthorpe. 4 k.f. William [?] Boneface! and 
Luke de Flathewath [§14] 

Tholthorpe. }k.f. William de Mortuo Mari; 4 k.f. Sibyl 
widow of Geoffrey de Mortuo Mari [§14] 

Stillingfleet. 4 k.f. Robert de Grey [§15] 

Clifford. 4k.f. heirs of Anketin Malore [§16] 

Scrayingham. 1/,), k.f. heir of Richard son of Maurice ; 
tee KE (2): Plesencia dan. of William: le, Bretun, 

Plaxton. +/,,-k.f. - Richard de: Dunstaple. 

Barnby [in Bossall]. 4 k.f. Reginald de Captoft [§9] ; 
1/9 k-f.. Richard de Barneby. 


And pertaining to the manor of Kirkby Moorside held of 
Roger de Mowbray :— 


[Great] Barugh, Muscoates and Wombleton. 1 k.f. John 
de Vescy. 
Newbold [on Avon], Cosford and [Long] Lawford, co. 
Warwick. 1 k.f. heirs of Roger Pauntolf. | 
cos. Northampton, Leicester, Warwick, Buckingham ; un- 
specified places. 44 k.f. heirs of Thomas de Wapenbiri. 
Welton, Staverton and Grimscote, co. Northampton; and 
unspecified places in Sussex. 54 k.f. heirs of Roger 
de Wywelton. 
details of this and of the Wake tenancy of that honour, with notes on Grace, 
who was the daughter of Thomas de Saleby, and one of whose husbands 
was Brian de Insula, see H.K.F., ii, pp. 85, 151, 171. The only possible 
Stuteville connexion might have been derived from a small holding of 
6 bovates in Hemingby, held by Hugh son of Baldric in 1086 ; but every- 
thing points to a Wake tenure of the honour of Chester, independent of 


Baldwin Wake’s Stuteville inheritance. 
1 Walter [?] Boneface in Yorks. Inq. 


80 STUTEVILLE FEE 


To these are added the manor of Brinklow, co. Warwick, 
held by Gilbert de Witteleburi for a sore sparrowhawk or 2s. 
yearly ; and the following knights’ fees, which certainly did not 
pertain to Kirkby Moorside, but relate to the tenure-in-chief of 
the honour of Rosedale :' Cropton and Middleton, 1 k.f. held 
by Nicholas Wake ; Wrelton, Aislaby and Middleton, $ k.f. held 
by Roger de Wrelton and his parceners ; Wrelton, 4 k.f. held by 
Bastace de Peérte. 

Several details relating to the Stuteville lands are given in 
the inquisitions held after the death of Roger de Mowbray 
following the writ of 21 Nov. 1297.2, They include extents of such 
manors as Hovingham and Thirsk which had been held by Robert 
de Stuteville I in chief, but in which his descendants never 
recovered any interest. On the other hand they show that the 
Stuteville under-tenancy, then held by John son of Baldwin 
Wake, included 10 knights’ fees in Kirkby Moorside, Gillamoor 
and Fadmoor ; 44 fees in Wappenbury, co. Warwick ; one fee in 
Little Dalby, Welby and Sysonby ; and another in Hoby, all co. 
Leicester. Other holdings include 5 carucates in Slingsby for 
+ k.f., and 4 carucates in Muscoates for 4 k.f.3 

The inquisitions held after the death of Thomas Wake of 
Liddel on 30 May 1349? give very full details of his holdings, and 
for many of these which can be identified as his Stuteville inheri- 
tance a continuity from earlier times is remarkable. They include 
the castle and manor of Liddel at the original cornage rent of 
56s.; the manors of Cottingham and [Little] Weighton held in 
chief by the service of a barony and finding a mounted esquire to 
carry the king’s hauberk in the Welsh war for forty days if there 
should be war in Wales ; the manor of Buttercrambe with Scraying- 
ham in chief for a knight’s fee ; the manor of Langton in chief 
for a knight’s fee ; a list of knights’ fees in Yorkshire which include 
several holdings showing their continuity from Robert de Stute- 
ville’s carta of 1166 and the fees given in Baldwin Wake’s in- 
quisition ;> the manors of Cropton and Middleton in chief for 
half a knight’s fee ;* the manor of [Great] Ayton, partly in chief 

1 Chapter IV, §19. 

2 Cal. Ing. p.m., iii, no. 472 ; and for the Yorks. lands Yorks. Inq., iii 
nos. 56, 107. There is unfortunately no inq. for Sussex. 

3 One holding, said to be held of Roger by Joan (sic) Wake, which 
may have been entered in error and which would seem to belong to the 
Wake tenancies-in-chief, was 6 car. in Cawton for 4k.f.; and Langton is 
given among the knight-service due to Roger from William de Vescy. On 
these points see Chapter IV, §§5 and 11. Among the fees listed in Yorkshire 
is 4 k.f. in Langthorpe [par. Kirby Hill] held by a Simon de Stotevyle. 

4 Cal. Ing. p.m., ix, no. 219. The only inquisitions after the death of 
his father John Wake in 1300 which appear to have survived are for his 
Cumberland lands; these give many details for the honour of Liddel and 
its members (ibid., iii, no. 597). 

5 e.g. the Boltby fee (§7). The number of separate tenements is no 
less than twenty-nine ; they add up to about 13 k.f., which compares with 
the total of between 13 and 14 k.f. pertaining to Cottingham and-Butter- 
crambe in Yorkshire recorded in Baldwin Wake’s inq. 


6 The honour of Rosedale, which at earlier dates had been held for 
Let. 


LANDS OF THE STUTEVILLE FEE 81 


for + fee, and partly of the Meinil fee ; the manor of Kirkby Moor- 
side held of Sir John de Mowbray for one and a half knights’ fees, 
with a list of knights’ fees pertaining to that manor and to the 
manors of Cropton with Middleton, [Great] Ayton and Hemling- 
ton.1 There are also specified several knights’ fees which, although 
the Mowbray tenure-in-chief is not mentioned, constituted a 
considerable portion of the Mowbray under-tenancies. These 
include a knight’s fee in Hoby, another in Thrussington, and 
another in Sysonby, Little Dalby and Welby, co. Leicester ; 2 
knights’ fees in Wappenbury and Newbold Revel, a quarter of a 
knight’s fee in Newbold on Avon, and one in Newbold [on Avon], 
Cosford and [Long] Lawford, co. Warwick ; and a knight’s fee in 
Grimscote, and in Welton and Staverton 34 fees held by the 
heirs of Roger de Welton, the heirs of Eustace son of William de 
Whoelton, the heirs of Robert de Boletisham and the heirs of 
Robert de Mortuo Mari in cos. Northampton and Sussex. The 
total of these Mowbray holdings, including the 14 fees for Kirkby 
Moorside, is 124 knights’ fees.? 

Lastly, the inquisitions held after the death of John de 
Mowbray on 4 Oct. 13618 record certain holdings which can be 
identified as forming part of the Stuteville under-tenancy. Thus 
half a knight’s fee in South Ferriby, co. Lincoln, a member of the 
manor of Epworth, was held by the heir of the earl of Kent; a 
knight’s fee in Little Dalby, Welby and Sysonby, another in Hoby, 
co. Leicester, and another in Thrussington and Ratcliffe on the 
- Wreak, were held by Thomas Wake, who also held 2 knights’ 
fees in Newbold on Avon, Cosford and Long Lawford, and 4 
knights’ fees in Wappenbury, Princethorpe and Eathorpe, co. 
Warwick, and also 3 knights’ fees in Welton, Staverton and 
Grimscote, co. Northampton. The total for these is 124 knights’ 
fees.4 

Many details bearing on the Wake tenancies-in-chief and 
their under-tenancies of the honour of Mowbray in Yorkshire can 
be found in the 1284-85 returns known as Kirkby’s Inquest and 
the later Yorkshire inquisitions of 1302-1303, 1346 and 1428, 
all of which are printed in Feudal Atds, vol. vi. Some of them, 
which are often useful in identifying the location of the knights’ 
fees recorded in the 1166 carta of Robert de Stuteville III, will 
be cited in the accounts of the various sections in Chapter IV of 
the present volume. In certain respects, however, especially when 
the tenancy-in-chief is the point at issue, they must be used with 
care ; and examples of statements which are in conflict with other 

1 This list is only concerned with lands in Yorkshire. 

2 Shortly afterwards, following the death of Margaret widow of Edmund 
earl of Kent (his sister and heir) on 29 Sept. 1349, an inq. for Yorkshire gives 
similar manorial details, but no lists of knights’ fees (Cal. Ing. p.m., ix, no. 
234). A long list of the knights’ fees in Yorkshire pertaining to the manors 
of Cottingham, Buttercrambe, Kirkby Moorside, etc. is given in the inq. 
after the death of John earl of Kent (her son) in 1352 (Ibid., x, no. 46). 

3 Cal. Ing. p.m., xi, no. 144. 


* There are no returns for Kirkby Moorside or for Buckinghamshire, 
nor any clue for the 2 k.f. in Sussex. 


82 STUTEVILLE FEE 


inquisitions and with information suggesting an opposite deduc- 
tion, will be found for the fees numbered §§4 to 8. 

In 1284-85 there is a section for the Stuteville fee in the 
wapentake of Harthill, giving certain details for the tenancy-in- 
chief held by the heir of Cottingham, 7.e. John son of Baldwin 
Wake. The places mentioned are Cottingham itself,? North Cave, 
Hotham, Brantingham, Riplingham, Drewton, Hunsley, [Little] 
Weighton, Willerby, Etton, Hessle, and Swanland. Except for the 
knight’s fee in Etton and a quarter of a knight’s fee in Hessle, the 
details recorded are confined to a carucage basis ; and amounts of 
land forming under-tenancies, with in many cases the names of 
the tenants, are included. There is also a record of the knight’s 
fee constituting the honour of Rosedale, held by John son of 
Baldwin Wake, in the king’s wardship, which consisted of 5 car. 
in Cropton, 2 car. in Wrelton, 2 car. in Aislaby, 3 car. 3 bov. in 
Middleton, and-2 car. in Cawthorn, a total of 14 car. 3 bov., a 
large number of under-tenancies being specified.4 There are also 
some details, by no means complete, relating to the manor of 
Kirkby Moorside and its appurtenances; these show that the 
heirs of Wake held of Roger de Mowbray 4 car. in Kirkby Moor- 
side (apart from a car. with which the church was endowed) for 
+ k.f. ; 4 car. in Gillamoor for 4 k.f. ; and 5 car. 7 bov. in Fadmoor 
(apart from a bovate held by Keldholme priory in alms) for 4 k.f.5 

The returns of 1302-1303 give the names of several tenants 
of the Stuteville or Wake fee. The holdings specified, which show 
in some cases portions held in demesne, include Etton, 24 car. ; 
Willerby, 4 car. ; Hessle, 3 car. ; Cottingham, 7 car. ; Wolfreton, 
1 car. ; [Little] Weighton, 6 car. ; Brantingham, 14 car. ; Ripling- 
ham, 10 bov. ; North Cave, 24 car. ; Scrayingham, 6 car. 6 bov. ; 
Dangrom, 12 car* 


$4. 


It will be seen from the foregoing notes and the details given 
in Chapter I that the Stuteville lands which descended to the 
Wakes of Liddel were composed for the most part of four distinct 
portions : 


1 Feudal Aids, vi, 48-9. 

2 Apart from the manor there were 2 car. in Cottingham, part of Hugh 
son of Baldric’s holding in 1086, which formed a member of the fee of the 
abp of York. In 1284-85 2 car. there, held by the ‘domina de Stutevill’ 
were among the fees of the abp (zbid., p. 42). In a mid 13th cent. list of 
the abp’s fees dame Joan Wake answered for } k.f. in Cottingham (Kirkby’s 
Inquest, etc., Surtees Soc., p. 389). This was presumably the } k.f. of the 
old feoffment held by Bernard de Cotingehfam] of the abp in 1166 (E.Y.C., 
i, no. 38 

3 ae Chapter IV, ‘§19. 

* Feudal Aids, vi, 80-1; they can be compared with the details of 
1302-03, when 9 car. 1 bov. were held in demesne for 4 + '/, k.f. and 
tenants held '2 car.. for */, E.1., 2 car. tor */, ki., and 7ubov. tor *i,K.f., 
making 14 car. for one k.f. (tbtd., pp. 136-7). 

5 Ibid., pp. 65, 68. 

6 Ibid., pp. 149, 151-3, 156-7. There are variations of 8, 10, 12, 16 car. 
to the k.f. 


LANDS OF THE STUTEVILLE FEE 83 


(a) those held in chief by Robert de Stuteville III, consisting 
of 8 knights’ fees of the old feoffment and an eighth of a fee of 
the new, the location of which will be described in the introductions 
to the separate sections in Chapter IV ; 

(6) the honours of Liddel and Rosedale, acquired as tenures- 
in-chief by Nicholas de Stuteville I, notes on which will be found 
in Chapter IV, §19; 

(c) the 10 knights’ fees with which Robert de Stuteville ITI 
was enfeoffed by Roger de Mowbray ; 

and (d) the 9 knights’ fees and land in Brinklow with which 
William de Stuteville was enfeoffed by William de Mowbray in 
1201. 

With regard to (c) only 8 fees of the old feoffment and one of 
the new are given as Robert de Stuteville III’s tenancy in Roger 
de Mowbray’s carta of 1166; but there is clear evidence that the 
number held was 10 In 1190, when William de Stuteville owed 
4l1. for the scutage of Wales, being a sum at 10s. per fee on 8 fees 
held in chief, he also accounted for 100s. for the knights of Nigel 
de Mowbray ‘quos habet in custodia’.2~ The manor of Kirkby 
Moorside, which formed the caput of this under-tenancy, was 
held by the service of 10 knights’ fees. Their composition cannot 
be given in complete detail ; but there is good evidence to show 
that, in addition to Kirkby Moorside and its appurtenances in 
Yorkshire held for 14 or 1} fees, and also temporarily the manor 
of Kilburn,’ the fee in Newbold on Avon, Cosford and Long Law- 
“fond! Co. Warwick, where an interest was granted by Robert de 
Stuteville III to John his younger brother, can be included.4 The 
balance seems to have been spread over places in the counties of 
Leicester, Northampton, Sussex and perhaps Buckingham ; and 
possibly included a knight’s fee in Hessle, Yorkshire, and South 
Ferriby, co. Lincoin.® 

With regard to (d) 44 out of the 9 knights’ fees were held by 
Richard de Wappenbury in 1201; and of these the greater part 
of his holding lay in cos. Warwick and Leicester, including 
Wappenbury itself, Newbold Revel and Thrussington ; the location 
of the other 44 fees, held by Eustace de Vescy in 1201, has not 
been determined.® 


1 See Chapter IL1, nos. 42-3. 

4 Pipe holt 2 mre. 1, p. 72. 

3 For this see charter no. 17, with perhaps an interest in Langford, co. 
Nottingham, also temporary. 

* See Chapter I, §2. 

> See Chapter LV, §17. 

® Charter no. 44 and note thereto. 


CHAPTER III. 
CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 


The first two documents in the present chapter refer to 
gifts made by Robert de Stuteville I before his forfeiture in 1106, 
and the third to the churches of three of his manors. Of those 
manors Kirkby Moorside was the only one in which Robert de 
Stuteville IIT recovered an interest, his interest being a subordinate 
tenure of the honour of Mowbray. The next section (nos. 4 to 61) 
comprises charters issued by or in favour of Robert de Stuteville 
III, who died in 1183, and his descendants.! The lands concerned 
include those which he recovered, either as tenures in chief or as 
subordinate tenures of the honour of Mowbray, such as the manor 
of Kirkby Moorside and its dependencies. It also includes certain 
charters relating to lands which his son William de Stuteville 
acquired independently. Later sections include charters issued by 
members of the Stuteville families of Warwickshire (nos. 62-3) 
and of Burton Agnes (nos. 64-6). Some charters issued by the 
Stutevilles of Cowesby will be printed in Chapter IV, §4. 


1. Record of the gift by Robert de Stuteville [I] to Stephen abbot 
of St. Mary’s York, of 3 carucates in Moreby [par. Stillingfleet]. 
[c. 1089-1106] 


Chartulary of St. Mary’s York (John Rylands Library, Latin MS. 
220), f. 160. 


In primis habetur carta in predicto xxvj° folio? per quam 
R[obertus] de Stuteuilla concessit tres carucatas terre in Moreby 
Stephano abbati et eyus monachis ad ecclesiam sancte Marie in 
elimosina quiete et libere ab omnibus rebus, etc. 


Other benefactions of the grantor to St. Mary’s abbey are included in 
the confirmation charter of king Henry II, 1156-57. These were a carucate 
of land in Ellenthorpe, par. Aldborough ; 12 carucates in Harton, par. Bossall; 
and tithes of his demesne of Coxwold, Hovingham, Kirkby [Moorside], 
Buttercrambe, Scrayingham, and Langton [E.R.], with a bovate in each 
vill, 2 bovates being the amount in Coxwold ; also with Robert de Meinil 
8 carucates in Myton [-upon-Swale].4 His gift of the vill of Harton was 
confirmed to the abbey by his grandson Robert de Stuteville III (no. 4). 
Robert de Stuteville I also gave land in Hunsley, par. Rowley, to Durham 
priory which was confirmed by king Henry I at Christmas 1100.4 These 
benefactions give a proof of his tenure in the places named before he forfeited 
his lands in 1106. His interest in Moreby was evidently due to his succession 


' An exception is no. 19, probably issued by his brother William. 

2 Missing from the MS. This entry has ‘Moreby : prima’ in the margin. 

3 E.Y.C., i, no. 354 (p. 272). The same benefactions are recorded in the 
confirmation charter of Richard I (Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1300-26, p. 114). ‘Moreby 
is not mentioned, and the gift seems to have had no permanent effect. 

+ BY oC.) Wa, De, Vee, 


CHARTERS OF THE. STUTEVILLE FAMILY 85 


to the interest of Hugh son of Baldric, who, however, held only one carucate 
there at the Survey.! 


2. Confirmation by king Henry I to the church of Lincoln of the 
houses which Robert de Stuteville [I] gave in prebendam; to 
hold as Hugh son of Baldric held them in the time of the king’s 
father. [c. 1107] 

Pd. in Registrum Antiquissimum, Lincoln Rec. Soc., i, p. 32, from 
Reg. Ant., f. 6d.;*. Mon. Ang., vi; 1274, from Cotton MS. 
Vespasian E. xvi, f. 9; and thence in V.C.H. Yorks., ii, 179n. 
H. rex Angl[orum] Roberto Legrecestrensi comiti et Rannulpho 
le Misch[in] et Osberto vicecomiti et omnibus fidelibus suis Francis et 
Anglis de Lincol’ scira salutem. Volo ut sciatis me concessisse Deo 
et sancte Marie de Lincolia pro anima patris mei et matris mee et 
fratris mei et mea et uxoris mee Matildis parentumque meorum omnes 
domos in prebenda quas Robertus de Stoteuilla dedit sancte Marie 
predicte ecclesie. Et volo ut ita bene et honorifice ipsa predicta ecclesia 
teneat domos illas sicut melius et quietius tenuit eas Hugo filius 
Baldrici tempore patris mei. Testibus, Matild[e] regina et Roberto 
comite de Legrecest[ria] et Henrico comite et Rogero Bigot et Willelmo 
de Albin[i]. Apud Windesor[am]. 

Robert de Stuteville’s gift was included in the confirmations of pope 
Eugenius III in 1146 and pope Alexander III in 1163, the houses being 
described as near the bridge of Lincoln, and was confirmed by king Henry 
II, 1154-71.3 Canon Foster notes that the houses formed part, perhaps the 
original portion, of the prebend of Thorngate.* 


3. Notification by king Henry I of his gift to Robert bishop of 
Lincoln, of the churches of his three manors of Coxwold, 
Kirkby [Moorside], and Hovingham. At Woodstock. 

[1109-14] 

Pd. in Registvrum Antiquissimum, Lincoln Rec. Soc., i, p. 20, from 

Reg. Ant., f. 4; and Mon. Ang., vi, 1272, from Cotton MS. 
Vespasian E. xvi, f. 6. 

H. rex Angl[orum] Thome archiepiscopo et Nigello de Albini 
et Osberto vicecomiti et omnibus baronibus et fidelibus Francis et 
Anglis de Euewicscira salutem. Sciatis me dedisse Roberto Lincoliensi 
episcopo ecclesias scilicet de tribus maneriis meis, videlicet de Cucuald 
et de Chirchebi et de Houingeham et quicquid ad predictas ecclesias 
pertinet. Et volo et firmiter precipio ut bene et honorifice teneat. Teste, 
Nigello de Albini. Apud Weodestocam. 


Canon Foster notes that these three churches are not found again in 
the possession of the bishop of Lincoln. The charter shows that some time 
elapsed before the lands, which were forfeited by Robert de Stuteville I 


! VCH, Vorks., ui, pp. 277, 322. 

2 Marginal heading : De domibus que fuerunt Roberti de Stoteuill[a]. 
This, the better text, is followed here. 

+ Reg. Axni., 1, pp. 107, 198, 205; where the gift is described as ‘in 
prebendam.’ ; 

+ 1bid., po 277. 


86 STUTEVILLE FEE 


in 1106, were given to Nigel d’Aubigny. The advowsons of the second and 
third churches with that of Thirsk were given to the Augustinian canons 
at Hood by Roger de Mowbray, Nigel’s son, after they had been refused 
by Roger abbot of Byland.! They were included in the comprehensive 
charter of Roger’s grandson William de Mowbray to Newburgh priory.? The 
manor of Kirkby Moorside formed part of the grant made to Robert de 
Stuteville III as a subordinate tenure by Roger de Mowbray.’ 


4, Confirmation by Robert de Stuteville [III] to the abbey of 
St. Mary, York, after he had recovered his inheritance in 
England, of the vill of Harton [par. Bossall], which Robert his 
grandfather had given to the abbey in pure alms, and 3 carucates 
of land in Sutton [by Stamford Bridge]. [c. 1135-40] 

Chartulary of St. Mayy’s, York (Dean and Chapter, smaller 
volume), 421, no. 1. 

Sciant omnes tam presentes quam futuri qui legerint vel audierint 
literas has quod ego Robertus de Stuteuilla cum consilio amicorum 
meorum postquam recuperavi hereditatem meam in Anglia concessi et 
confirmavi ecclesie sancte Marie Ebor[acensis] et monachis ibidem 
Deo servientibus in puram et perpetuam elemosinam villam que 
vocatur Harton cum omnibus appenditiis suis quam Robertus avus 
meus eidem ecclesie in puram elemosinam dedit et tres carucatas terre 
in Sutton. Hec supradicte ecclesie concessi et presentis carte testimonio 
cum sigilli mei appositione confirmavi ut libere ab omni terreno 
servitio perpetualiter in puram elemosinam possideat pro anima patris 
mei et matris mee et avi mei Roberti et pro animabus omnium parentum 
meorum et omnium fidelium defunctorum necnon et pro salute mea 
et uxoris mee ac liberorum meorum. Testibus hiis, etc.4 


For the gift of Robert de Stuteville I of 12 carucates in Harton see the 
note to no. 1 above. 

In the next charter Sutton is described as ‘juxta Pontem Belli’; and 
in a charter of Stephen de Meinil I as Sutton ‘juxta Pontem de Bello in illa 
parte Deruenti fluminis que est versus civitatem Eboraci’; the place being 
identified by Farrer as a lost hamlet in Gate Helmsley.> The 3 carucates 
are represented by the moieties of 14 carucates each, one of which was 
given to the abbey by Robert de Meinil and the other subsequently by 
Geoffrey Murdac (no. 70 below and note). Although there is no direct proof, 
it is likely that Robert de Stuteville I held an interest in at least part of 
Sutton by Stamford Bridge, and that he was given this, together with the 
vill of Harton, by reason of their proximity to his manor of Buttercrambe. 
In 1086 the king held a manor of 12 carucates in Harton and two holdings 
of 14 carucates each in Sutton.°® 

This charter was probably issued shortly after the grantor recovered a 
portion of the holdings of his grandfather, whom he mentions by name ; 


1 Mon. Ang., v, 351 ; and the note to no. 112 below. 

2 [bid., vi, 319. 3 See no. 42 below. 

* Added at the end of no. 3 of this series : Iste 1ij carte scribentur in 
fo. vij° a principio hujus libri ideo cancellantur, Folio 7 is lost. The three 
charters are this and nos. 5 and 70 below. 

s-B.L.Y C., i, no. 792 aud mote, ° V.C.E., Yorks., 0, 202. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 87 


and this suggests a date early in the reign of Stephen.! The ‘pro anima’ 
clause suggests that the grantor’s parents were both dead ; and the ‘pro 
salute’ clause shows that the grantor was already married with children. 


5. Gift by Savaric abbot of St. Mary’s York to Robert de Stute- 
ville [III] and his heirs, of 3 carucates in Sutton by Stamford 
Bridge, which he had confirmed to the abbey; rendering yearly 
to the sacristan of the abbey 10s. to purchase wine for masses. 

[c. 1137-1161] 
Chartulary of St. Mary’s, York (Dean and Chapter, smaller volume), 
£21, no. 2; 

Sciant omnes qui legerint vel audierint literas has quod ego 
Savaricus abbas ecclesie sancte Marie Ebor[acensis] cum communi 
consilio et assensu capituli nostri concessi et dedi Roberto de Stuteuill’ 
et heredibus suis tenere de nobis in feodo et hereditate tres carucatas 
terre in Sutton juxta Pontem Belli; reddendo singulis annis secretario 
ecclesie nostre decem solidos ad emendum vinum ad missas, dimidium 
videlicet ad Pentecosten et dimidium ad festum sancti Martini. Has 
autem supradictas carucatas prefatus Robertus ecclesie nostre carta 
sua confirmavit et perpetuo firmas esse constituit.? 


Although the extreme limits of date depend on the tenure of Savaric 
as abbot of St. Mary’s,? the charter may well have been issued not long 
after the preceding one. 


6. Confirmation by Robert de Stuteville [III] to the abbey of St. 
Mary, York, of the vill of Hutton [le Hole] ; and grant of privileges 
in Farndale for the abbey’s men of Hutton and its hall of Spaun- 
ton, the abbey granting that he should do what he wished in 
respect of the arable land on the river Dove below the mill of 
Gillamoor, which he had formerly put to the use of Godfrey his 
serjeant. Also confirmation of all the tithes of his demesnes in 
accordance with the charter of his grandfather. [1154-83] 

Pd. in Curia Regis Rolls, v, 53, from Curia Regis Roll 46, m. 3d; 
and in Yorks. Fines, John, Surtees Soc., no. 292. 

Sciant omnes qui hanc cartam viderint et audierint* quod ego 
Robertus de Stutevill’ concessi et confirmavi ecclesie sancte Marie 
Eboraci et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus villam que vocatur 
Hoton’ in Ridal’ cum omnibus pertinenciis suis usque in aquam que 
Duua dicitur. Concessi vero ut habeant in Farendal’ hominibus suis 
de Hoton’ et ad aulam suam de Spanton’ que necessaria fuerint, scilicet 
ad comburendum de mortuo bosco et ad edificandum de viridi sine 
documento forestarii mei et animalibus suis et porcis et hominum 
suorum ejusdem ville pasturam et pannagium absque vendicione et 
vastacione aliqua. Si autem forestarius meus vel forestarius eorum 
vastacionem vel foresfactum® ibi repererit® emendari illud prout opus 
fuerit curabit. Illud quoque sciendum est me eciam concessisse prefate 

See the account of Robert de Stuteville III in Chapter I. 
See the footnote to the preceding charter. 


1 
3 See for this: E.Y .C., 4v; p. 137. 
* Sciant eic., C.K. > forisfacturam, Y.F. *veppererst, YF. 


88 STUTEVILLE FEE 


ecclesie et hominibus suis colere terram de Hogthuet! quantum sartatum 
fuit die qua carta ista facta fuit; nec sine consensu meo amplius sarta- 
bunt. Similiter autem? ipsi concesserunt ut facerem voluntatem 
meam de terra illa lucrabili que est super Duuam sub molendino de 
Gillingamor? quam aliquando accommodaveram* Godefrido servienti 
meo. De bosco autem nichil sartare potero sine consensu eorum. 
Decimas autem omnes de dominiis meis cum terris ad easdem pertin- 
entibus sicut carta avi mei testatur ecclesie.supradicte confirmo.° 


This charter was produced by the abbot of St. Mary’s in a plea® which 
he brought against Nicholas de Stuteville, the grantor’s son, in Michaelmas 
term 1207, claiming common of wood and pasture in respect of Hutton 
{le Hole] and Spaunton, belonging to his free tenement in those vills as the 
right of his church, of which abbot Savaric had been seised in the time of 
Henry II. Nicholas said that he had nothing in demesne in the vills, which 
he had confirmed to the abbot as far as the river Dove, but that the claim 
was beyond the appurtenances of the vills, namely in Farndale, and of this 
he put himself on the great assize. <A licence for a concord was accepted ; 
and the fine was accordingly levied on 20 Oct. 1207, by which Nicholas 
granted the common of wood and pasture in pure and perpetual alms with all 
things contained in his father’s charter.’ 

Some earlier charters relating to Hutton le Hole are given in Chapter 
V, including a charter of Hugh son of Baldric and Roger de Mowbray’s 
confirmation to St. Mary’s of the vill within specified bounds (nos. 133, 
136). For the gift of tithes made by Robert de Stuteville I, confirmed 
in the last clause, see the note to charter no. 1. 

The absence of witnesses makes it impossible to assign any approximate 
date for this charter, but it was evidently issued not earlier than the feoff- 
ment of the manor of Kirkby Moorside made to the grantor by Roger de 
Mowbray, and therefore not earlier than the accession of Henry II.8 


7. Confirmation by Robert de Stuteville [III] and Richard Murdac 
to Durham priory of the church of Skipwith and the land and 
other things belonging thereto. | [c. 1135-1166] 


Durham Chartulary, vol. iii, part ii, f. 11. Pd..in Reg. Gray, 
Surtees: Soc., p. 6m. 


Domino suo archiepiscopo de Ebor[aco] et omnibus de Eboraci- 
‘syra ecclesie Dei prelatis et omnibus baronibus Francis et Anglis 
Robertus de Stuteuilla et Ricardus Murdac salutem.  Sciatis nos 
concessisse ecclesiam de Scipwyth in elemosina et terram que ad eccles- 
lam pertinet et quecumque alia ad ecclesiam pertinent Deo et sancto 
Cuthberto et monachis Dunelm[ensibus]. Nos et heredes nostri eis 
concessimus libere et quiete in pace et finabiliter ut Deus nos ad veram 
penitenciam pervenire concedat. Test[ibus], etc. 

1 Hogtiweit, Y.F. 2.sacut, YF. 3 Gillingmor, Y.F. 

4 acomodaveram, Y.F. > The last sentence omitted in Y.F. 

® In 1206 he gave 2 marks for having a writ for this purpose (Rot. 
de Fin., p. 352). 

7 Yorks. Funes, John, no. 292. 

8 See no. 42 below. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 89 


Some notes on Skipwith are given in Chapter LV, §2. King William I 
apparently included the church in his gifts to William, bishop of Durham, 
who certainly gave it to Durham priory.! It was confirmed to the priory 
by archbishop Thurstan, c. 1121-1128,? and again, with 2 bovates of land, by 
Henry I! in 1158.3. It is probable that Richard Murdac was the man of that 
name who occurs in the middle of the twelfth century, and was the pre- 
decessor of Robert Murdac, a tenant of Robert de Stuteville III in 1166 ; 
see Chapter LV, §2. The charter may have been issued soon after Robert de 
Stuteville III recovered a portion of his grandfather’s holdings. 


8. Quitclaim by Robert de Stuteville [III] to Byland abbey, by 
laying a knife on the high altar, of whatever had been given 
thereto within his patrimony. [1147-83] 


MS. Dodsworth Ixiii, f. 38, from the Byland Chartulary, f. 65. + 


Robertus de Stuteuilla optulit cultellum pro carta super magnum 
altare et quietum clamavit de se et heredibus suis imperpetuum Deo 
et beate Marie et monachis de Beglanda quicquid eis ab aliquo datum 
est de jure et de patrimonio suo. 


The claims which the grantor was making against Roger de Mowbray 
in 1147 (p. 5 above) make it unlikely that his quitclaim to Byland was 
of earlier date. 


9. Record of gifts by Robert de Stuteville [III] to Meaux abbey 
of the site of a mill on the river Hull in the territory of Cotting- 
ham, a croft and a fishery there, a wooden castle from which 
some of the conventual offices were made, and supplies of 
branches from the woods of Cottingham and the park of Kirkby 
Moorside for the repair of the abbey’s wagons. [1154-56] 


Pd. in Chron. Mon. de Melsa, Rolls Ser., i, 99. 


Robertus etiam de Stutevylla quondam dominus de Cotyngham 
dedit eidem monasterio nostro sedem unius molendini super ripam 
de Hullo in territorio de Cotyngham cum aquis que descendunt de 
Cotyngham in Hullum et quoddam croftum duarum acrarum et 
quatuor perticatarum et unam piscariam ibidem, castellum etiam 
ligneum unde edificate sunt pistrinum stabulum et alize monasterii 
officine. Dedit etiam monasterio xxiiij. fasces virgarum de boscis de 
Cotyngham ad reficiendas carectas nostras in Holdernesse et duas 
carectatas virgarum de parco de Kyrkeby in Moresyd annuatim ad 
reficiendas carectas nostras in Walda. 


No gifts by Robert de Stuteville to Meaux are recorded in pope Anas- 
tasius [V’s confirmation of 12 Jan. 1153-4 or in the confirmations of king 
Stephen and Henry duke of Normandy ;° but in the confirmation of pope 
Adrian IV on 23 Nov. 1156 there is the clause ‘ex dono Roberti de Stutevill’ 


1, VY Coe ow 74. 2 Ibid., no. 936. 2 [bid., p. 272. 

* In Dodsworth’s own hand ; there is a copy in his copyist’s hand in 
the same vol., f. 35Y. The first existing folio in Egerton MS, 2823 (Byland 
Chartulary) with the old numbering is f. 74. 

5 E.Y.C., iii, nos. 1384-6. 


90 STUTEVILLE FEE 


mansuram quandam quam Suar parvus tenuit et xj. piscarias que sunt in 
Hul et duas mansuras dejuxta quas dedit vobis Berardus miles de Cottingham 
et uxor ejus et sedem molendini juxta Hul et cursum aquarum venientium 
de molendinis de Cottingham’.! The record in the Chronicle is entered in 
the time of Adam the first abbot, who held office from 1150 to 1160. It 
adds that William de Stuteville took possession of the mill given by his 
father ; and a full account of his actions is given at a later entry (no. 22 below). 
Another passage* states that the timber from the Fossard castle of Mount- 
feraunt in the territory of Birdsall was given to the abbey by Robert de 
Stuteville, lord of Cottingham, and used for several of the monastic offices. 

The mention of Kirkby Moorside in this record of gifts supports the 
earlier limit of 1154 (note to no. 6); and the period 1154-56 can therefore be 
assigned for most of them, though the gift of the wooden castle may not 
have been made until much later. 


10. Confirmation by Robert de Stuteville [III] to Rievaulx abbey, 
for the health of his soul and the souls of Robert de Stuteville 
his grandfather, Robert his father, Erneburga his mother, and 
Helewise his wife, with the consent of William his son and his 
other sons, of all the land of Hoveton [near Welburn, wap. 
Ryedale] and all the land of Welburn, both within specified 
bounds ; and also common pasture of the moor before Bowforth 
[par. Kirkby Moorside] ; reserving hunting rights. 

[c. 1160-1183] 
Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 88 (old f. 84).* 
Pd. in Rievaulz Chartulary, no. 131. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Robertus de Stuteuilla salu- 
tem. Sciatis me dedisse et hac presenti carta confirmasse Deo et 
ecclesie sancte Marie Rieuall[is] et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus, 
pro salute anime mee et Roberti de Stuteuill’ avi mei et Roberti patris 
mei et Erneburge matris mee et Helewise uxoris mee et omnium 
antecessorum meorum et omnium filiorum meorum et successorum 
meorum, in puram et perpetuam elemosinam, concessu Willelmi 
filii mei et aliorum filiorum meorum totam terram de Houetona inter 
Redofram et Kirkebi ex australi parte bosci sicut eam tenuerunt hact- 
enus tam in terris cultis quam in pratis et pasturis, scilicet sicut divisa 
jacet inter terras cultas de Kirkebi et de Houet[ona] et vadit usque 
‘in magnam viam qua itur de Kirkebi ad Houet[onam] et inde sicut 
recte divise vadunt per Houelund usque ad Balbusc et inde usque ad 
Aicwath cum Jukeleholm et ultra Redofram contra aquilonem usque 
ad primam vallem que tendit contra orientem ab aquilonali® parte 
ecclesie de Kirkedala et inde in bosco per metas et divisas quas ego 
perambulavi cum hominibus meis usque ad supercilium vallis Suaue- 
dala que est inter Westwich et magnum sartum monachorum et per 
orientalem partem ejusdem sarti trans mediam ipsam vallem usque 
ad terras cultas per horam bosci de Westwich usque ad predictas divisas 
inter Kirkebi et Houet[onam]. Preterea concessi eisdem monachis 

lL BLY ..C., di, ne: 1386. 

2 Chron., i, 105. + On this point see £.Y.C.,; ii, p. 328. 

* Marginal number Ixxxviij. | 5 aquinolani, MS. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 91 


et presenti carta confirmavi similiter concessu Willelmi filii mei et 
aliorum filiorum meorum in puram et perpetuam elemosinam 
totam terram de Welleburna que fuit de jure meo et antecessorum 
meorum cum omnibus pertinentiis suis in bosco et plano et pratis 
et pascuis et viis et semitis et aquis et omnibus aliis rebus, scilicet per 
aquam de Redofra versus occidentem a sursa sua sicut vadit per Ber- 
engerestan! et sicut descendit usque versus Bulefordam quantum 
terra de Welleburna durat et inde quantum terra de Welleburna durat 
et ab occidentali parte de Welleburna sicut Fragate vadit subtus Lund 
usque in viam de Wimbelt[ona] et inde sicut ipsa via vadit inter boscum 
de Wimbelt[ona] et Lund usque ad Tungam et inde sicut divise inter 
Wimbelt{onam] et Wellebr[unam] tendunt usque ad Mapelbusc et 
Loccum et Slectes et ita sicut divise tendunt usque ad Langeran et 
inde usque ad Apelgarth usque ad divisas de Clifland ex parte meri- 
diana sicut via vadit inter Wimbelt[onam] et Wellebr[unam] usque 
Midelhirst et ab australi parte de Midelhirst sicut vallis dividit inter 
certam terram et mareschum usque Stodfald et inde recta linea versus 
Holm usque in Holebec, et communem pasturam more que jacet ante 
Bulefordam que est communis his tribus villis Wellebr[une] Houet- 
[one] et Buleford’ usque ad Coldic. Hec omnia dedi eis tenenda libera 
et quieta cum omnibus libertatibus et liberis consuetudinibus ita quod 
ea teneant libere et quiete ab omni terreno servicio et exactione seculari 
in perpetuum excepto percursu venationis mee et heredum meorum. 
His testibus, magistro Gaufrido de Duua, Petro de Ros, Roberto decano 
de Helmesl[ac], Johanne de Stuteuill’, Nicholao de Stuteuill’, Rogero 
de Stuteuill’, Bartholomeo de Stuteuill’, magistro Willelmo de Helmesl- 
[ac], Ricardo Cruer,? Helia forestario, Petro de Houet[ona], Rainaldo 
de Capetoft’, Willelmo clerico de Cottingham, Roberto de Meus. 


Several charters relating to the lost vill of Hoveton and to Welburn, 
with some notes on the boundaries here described, are printed in Chapter 
V. The present charter was evidently issued after Robert de Stuteville IIL 
was granted the manor of Kirkby Moorside by Roger de Mowbray ; and 
it was presumably later than the gifts of Hoveton and Welburn which 
Roger himself had made in the period 1154-57 (nos. 125, 151). 

Robert dean of Helmsley, evidently the rector of Helmsley and rural 
dean of Ryedale, witnessed charters with Jeremy archdeacon of Cleveland, 
who held that office from c. 1170 to 1189 ;4 and, as Robert de Helmsley, 
dean of Ryedale, he witnessed a charter c. 1181-1189.° Mag. Geoffrey de 
Duua (for whom see the note to no. 12) witnessed a charter in the period 
1165-75, and another dated 1166, which was also witnessed by Richard 
Cruer and Reginald de Cap[etot],”7 both of whom witnessed the present 
charter. It seems safe, therefore, to assign c. 1160 as its earliest date,® 
especially if the fifth witness was the grantor’s younger son Nicholas. 


1 Apparently so, and not Bercugerestan as in the pd. text. 

2 Not Guer as in ibid. For Richard Cruer see Chapter IV, §5. 

3 BY GC. i, no. 612% ii, no. 760:; ii, no. 1838. 

* Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxvi, 413-4. 

5 E.Y.C., iti, no. 1882. 6 Ibid., i, no. 410. 

7 Ibid., ii, no. 718, where he is described as Geoffrey ‘magister de 
Duva.’ 

8 Farrer in his MS. copy gives c. 1160—c. 1170. 


92 STUTEVILLE FEE 


11. Confirmation by Robert de Stuteville [III] to Rievaulx abbey 
of the meadow of Rook Barugh [par. Normanby, wap. Ryedale], 
which Hugh del Tuit had given. [1154-83] 

Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 66 (old f. 62).! Pd. 
in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 106. 

Omnibus filiis sancte matris ecclesie Robertus de Stuteuill’ 
salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et presentis carte attestatione confirm- 
asse Deo et sancte Marie Rieuall[is] et fratribus ibidem Deo servientibus 
pro salute anime mee et uxoris mee et filiorum meorum et antecessorum 
meorum pratum de Rochesberge sicut Hugo de Tuit eisdem fratribus 
dedit et concessit et carta sua confirmavit. His testibus, Rogero de 
Stuteuill’, Hugone Duuill’,? Anselmo clerico, Giuone, Godefr[ido] 
filio Hyrnan de Gillemor. 


The charter of Hugh del Tuit (the correct form of the name) is given 
at no. 143 below; and the present confirmation may have been shortly 
after the grantor was enfeoffed of Kirkby Moorside. The last witness is 
possibly Godfrey, the grantor’s serjeant, who occurs in no. 6. 


12. Confirmation by Robert de Stuteville [III] to Keldholme priory 
of the place of Keldholme with land towards the north within 
specified bounds, a park for growing herbs, the mill with the suit 
and multure of Kirkby [Moorside], land towards the south 
within specified bounds, pasture in Ravenswyke, materials there 
and in Farndale, pasture in Bransdale with the vaccary there, 
and the bark of trees of the forest ; and gift of all the land of 
Rook Barugh [par. Normanby]. [1154-c. 1166] 

P.R.O:, Assize Roll 1076, Mich. term 8-9 Edw. I, m. 6d. 


[Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Robertus de Stutevill salutem. 
Sciatis me dedisse et concessisse et hac mea carta confirmasse]* Deo 
et Beate Marie et sanctimonialibus que apud Keldholm Deo serviunt 
locum illum de Keldeholm cum tota terra culta versus aquilonem 
per semitam que ducit a molendino per Hauerbergam usque ad nemus 
quod cadit in Rumesdale et Wymbelthwayt et Arkelcroft et parcum 
ad olera facienda et molendinum cum secta et molta de Kyrkeby et 
totam terram versus austrum et prata usque ad divisas de Edeston’ 
et in pollum ab australi fine culture mee per vetus fossatum inter eas 
et villatam de Kyrkeby usque in Duuam cum quodam holme. Dedi* 
etiam eis in bosco de Yauenwyth pasturam et ibidem et in Farendale 
materiem ad edificia sua facienda et reficienda et lignum ad focaria 
et clausturam ad sepes suas restituendas consideracione forestariorum 
meorum.® Concessi* etiam eis pascua in Branzedale ad nutrienda 

1 Marginal number I|x1ij. * Sic; not Davilla as in the pd. text. 

3 This is Farrer’s suggestion in his copy which was taken from the 
transcript (not entirely correct) in Agard’s Indexes, Yorks. Edw. I, f. 2d. 
The record in the proceedings in the plea brought by the abbot of St. Mary’s, 
York, against the prioress of Keldholme in 1280 states that the latter 
produced a charter witnessing that Robert de Stoteuyll’ gave and by his 
charter confirmed Deo [etc. as in the text}. . 

+ The text has dedit and concessit ; but the clauses were presumably 


citations from the same charter. 
5 The text has suorum, which must have been meorum in the charter. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 93 


animalia sua et oves et porcos cum vaccaria sua ibidem et terra culta 
que ibi continetur. Concessi! etiam eis totam corticem lignorum totius 
foreste provincie illius que vel per se cadunt vel succiduntur a carpent- 
arlis. Dedi! etiam eis totam terram de Rokeberga cum omnibus appen- 
diciis suis in bosco et plano et pascuis et pratis et aquis et mariscis.” 


It is usually stated that the priory of Keldholme was founded by 
Robert de Stuteville in the reign of Henry 1.3 The only evidences for this 
early date appear to be a statement made by the prioress at the Quo Waranto 
proceedings of 1278-81 that Henry the king, son of the Conqueror, issued 
a charter to the nuns which she produced ;* and, secondly, a statement 
that there was a prioress named Sibyl living in that reign.» With regard 
to the first, any corroboration is lacking ; and it is significant that king John 
in his confirmation (no. 13) refers to a charter of his own father, Henry II, 
and not to any charter issued by Henry I, and gives as the principal donor 
Robert de Stuteville, with the consent of his son William, which clearly 
identifies him as Robert de Stuteville III. With regard to the prioress 
Sibyl the evidence given is that she issued a charter witnessed by Stephen 
de Meinil. But there were three Stephens of that name whose periods 
respectively were early in the twelfth century, late in that century, and 
1224-69.© It so happens that a Sibyl prioress of Keldholme issued a charter 
in the last of these periods, which actually was witnessed by a Sir Stephen 
de Meyniil;’7 and it would be a strange coincidence if this was not the 
charter in question. 

The evidence taken as a whole suggests that the prioress was mistaken 
in supposing that the king’s charter that she produced, which may well 
have been a charter of Henry II confirming gifts made by Robert de Stute- 
_ville III, was one issued by Henry I] ;§ and it can be put forward as an 
alternative hypothesis that the priory was founded by Robert de Stuteville 
III, and that he issued the present charter shortly after the foundation, at 
a date subsequent to his acquisition of the manor of Kirkby Moorside 
after the accession of Henry II. The latest date for the foundation can be 
taken as 1166, for in that year Geoffrey ‘magister de Duva’ witnessed a 


1 The text has dedit and concessit ; but the clauses were presumably 
citations from the same charter. 

2 The prioress then stated that the said common [in dispute, being in 
Hoton’ Underheth’, z.e. Hutton le Hole} was contained in the said charter 
in the wood called Yauenwyth. The abbot denied this, and said it was 
called Yeven. The jurors said that it was so contained in the charter of 
Robert de Stoteuyll’ produced by the prioress, and that the land was called 
Yauen. The prioress had vouched to warranty Baldwin Wake whose 
ancestor was Robert de Stoteuyll’. 

3. V.C.H. Yorks., iii, 167; Mon. Ang., v, 664, citing Burton, the author 
of Monasticon Eboracense (p. 380). 

4 Plac. de Quo Waranto, p. 195b; the charter, so the prioress said, 
granted pasture in the wood of Yevewith and in Farndale, and feedings in 
Bransdale, etc., precisely as in Robert de Stuteville’s charter printed here. 

> Mon. Ebor., pp. 380n, 381. 

° Complete Peerage, new ed., vili, 620-4. 

7 RS. poppet vii, f. 155 ; cited by Farrer (without the witnesses) 
im BY C., 4, p. 451; 

Pt will be noticed above that she produced the present charter, and 
no charter of Henry I, in her defence against the abbot of St. Mary’ s in the 
case of the same period as the Quo Waranto proceedings. 


94 STUTEVILLE FEE 


charter ;! he can be identified as Geoffrey ‘magister monialium de Duua 
who witnessed another (no. 121 below) ; and it is clear that the river Dove 
gave an alternative name to the Cistercian nuns of Keldholme.? 

The site of the priory lies on the Dove less than a mile to the east of 
Kirkby Moorside. Yauenwyth seems to be identical with Revenwich’ and 
Evenewit which occur in king John’s charters (no. 13 and note), and can 
so be identified with Ravenswyke which lies less than a mile to the north of 
Keldholme. Farndale lies up the Dove to the north of Gillamoor, and 
Bransdale about 3 miles west of Farndale. The privileges granted to the 
priory, therefore, extended over a wide area. Other charters issued or 
relating to it are printed at nos. 26, 51-2, 113, 144. 


13. Confirmation by king John to Keldholme priory of the gifts 
made by Robert de Stuteville [III], with the consent of William 
de Stuteville, his heir [as in the previous charter], with the addition 
of 2 carucates of land in Ingleby [Greenhow] ; and of gifts made 
by Thurstan de Borrowby, William de Vescy with the consent 
of Burga his wife, and Hugh del Tuit. At Scarborough. 3 Feb. 
1200-1. 


Pd. in Rot. Chartarum, p. 86a; and Mon. Ang., v, 665. 


Johannes Dei gratia etc. Sciatis nos concessisse et presenti carta 
nostra confirmasse Deo et sancte Marie et sanctimonialibus que apud 
Keldeholm’ Deo serviunt omnia subscripta que rationabiliter data 
sunt eis et concessa et cartis donatorum confirmata : ex dono Roberti 
de Stutevill’ et concessione Willelmi de Stutevill’ heredis sui locum 
illum de Keldeholm cum tota terra culta versus aquilonem per divisas in 
cartis eorum determinatas et parcum ad olera facienda et molendinum 
cum soca et molta de Kirkeby et totam terram versus austrum et 
prata usque ad divisas in eorundem cartis notatas et pasturam in bosco 
de Revenwich’ et ibidem in Farendala materiem ad edificia sua facienda 
et reficienda et ligna ad focar[ia] et clausturam ad sepes suas restituen- 
das consideratione forestariorum suorum et pascua in Brandeshal’ 
ad nutrienda animalia sua et oves et porcos cum vacaria sua ibidem 
et terra culta que ibi continetur et totam corticem lignorum totius 
foreste provincie illius que per se cadunt vel succiduntur a carpentariis 
et totam terram de Rogeberg cum pertinentiis suis et duas carrucatas 
terre in Engelby faciendo inde forinsecum servitium ; ex dono Turstani 
de Beregeb’ vj. bovatas terre cum omnibus pertinentiis suis in Beregb’ ; 
ex dono Willelmi de Vesci concessu Burgie uxoris sue unam marcam 
argenti in molendino de Toronton’ ; ex dono Hugonis del Tuit molen- 
dinum de Edeston’ et culturam de Coleslund’ et duas acras de Seliflat. 
Quare volumus et firmiter precipimus quod sanctimoniales predicte 
omnia supradicta habeant et teneant bene et in pace libere et quiete 
integre et plenarie et honorifice in bosco et plano in pratis in pascuis 
in aquis et molendinis in vivariis et stagnis et piscarlis in viis et semitis 
et in omnibus aliis locis et aliis rebus ad ea pertinentibus cum omnibus 
libertatibus et liberis consuetudinibus suis sicut carte dongtorum 

1 See the note to no. 10 above. 


2 This point is recognized in Mon. Ang., v, 664n. The nuns are described 
as ‘de Duva’ in E.Y.C., i. no. 574. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 95 


testantur sicut carta H. regis patris nostri rationabiliter testatur. 
[wttness and dating clauses]. 


On the following day the king issued another charter confirming several 
other gifts to the priory, including all the land of ‘Evenewit’ of the gift of 
William de Stuteville and everything within the bounds ‘a rogo calcis! que 
est juxta Duuam? per fossatum ipsarum sanctimonialium usque ad divisam 
terre monachorum sancte Marie de Ebor[aco] que est in valle versus orientem 
et per fundum ejusdem vallis usque in Chatwait et per rectam divisam que 
est inter Kirkebi Moresheved’ et Sivelington’ [Sinnington] a Chatwait? 
per vallem usque ad divisam de Parva Edeston’ et deinde usque in fluvium 
de Duua et ab illo loco fluvii de Duua per ipsum fluvium usque ad predictum 
rogum’.* Among the other gifts thereby confirmed were several in ‘Engelby’, 
2 carucates there being given by William son of Columba de Engelby.> The 
place is Ingleby Greenhow, where in the thirteenth century the prioress of 
Keldholme was holding 2 carucates (in Englebt juxta Grenhou).© It lies to 
the north of Bransdale ; and at the Domesday survey 7 carucates there 
were soke of the manor of Stokesley, which became a member of the Balliol 
fee.? In 1166 Robert de Stuteville III purchased 2 carucates there for 14 
marks, to hold for a sixth part of a knight’s fee ;* he thus became the superior 
lord of the Ingleby family, his confirmation of their gift of the 2 carucates 
being included in the first confirmation of king John. 

A note on Hugh del Tuit and his family is given at no. 143 below. 
Thornton, from whose mill a rent of a mark was given, may be the Thornton, 
wap. Harthill, where the Vescy family had an interest ;? but this cannot 
be more than a suggestion. 


‘14. Notification by Roger archbishop of York of the settlement 
of the controversy between Hugh bishop of Durham and Robert 
de Stuteville [III] relating to the chapel of Cowesby, by which 
the bishop gave the chapel for that turn to a clerk who would 
pay to the mother church of Leake a yearly pension of a mark 
instead of the previous one of 10s., the arrangement not, however, 
to be binding for a future appointment. [1164-74] 


Original charter in Durham Treasury, I, i, Archiep. no. 5.1° 


Rogferus] Dei gratia Eborac[ensis] archiepiscopus apostolice sedis 
legatus . omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis ad quos littere presentes 
peruenerint salutem. Notum sit uobis controuersiam que inter dominum 
Hug[onem] episcopum Dunelm[ensem] . et Robertum de Stutauilla 


1 Lime-kiln. 2 Dunam as pd. 

3 The name is perhaps preserved in Catter beck, a tributary of the 
Seven ; Catter bridge is half-way between Kirkby Moorside and Sinnington. 

* Rot. Chart., p. 85b; Mon. Ang., loc. cit. 

5 This portion is pd. in E.Y.C., i, no. 575 ; and cf. no. 574. 

® Tbid., p. 451. 7 Ibid., p. 438. 

8 [bid., ii, no. 718, where the charter is assigned to Ingleby Arncliffe ; 
but a comparison with 7b7d., i, no. 574 makes it clear that Ingleby Greenhow 
is correct. 

9 Ibid., ili, p. 487. 

10 The seal with secretum to this and two other charters of the arch- 
bishop is fully described in Cat. of Seals in Durham Treasury, ed. C. H. 
Hunter Blair, ii, no. 3220. 


96 STUTEVILLE FEE 


super capella de Causebi uertebatur . amicabili compositione nobis 
mediantibus sic apud Eboracum esse sopitam . quod uidelicet dominus 
episcopus predictam capellam ea uice pro amore domini Roberti 
cuidam clerico donauit qui de eadem capella matrici ecclesie de Lec . 
annuam unius marce pensionem soluet que prius decem solidorum esse 
solebat . ita quod inposterum trahi non possit in exemplum quod 
post illus clerici decessum oporteat episcopum Dunelm[ensem] pro 
amore uel peticione Roberti uel heredis sui predictam capellam alicui 
similiter dare. Testibus . Johanne archid[iacono] . Willelmo cantore . 
Willelmo filio Tosti . magistro Roberto filio Stephani . et aliis multis 
clericis et laicis. 


The legatine style of the archbishop gives the earliest date as 1164; 
and it is reasonably certain that William d’Eu was not precentor of York 
later than 1174.1 A subsequent dispute relating to the chapel between the 
bishop and Osmund de Stuteville, who held two-thirds of a knight’s fee of 
Robert de Stuteville in Cowesby and elsewhere, was settled in 1189-92 (no. 
71). 


15. Gift by Robert de Stuteville [III] to Geoffrey Fossard and his 
heirs of the knight’s fee in Sutton [under Whitestone Cliffe], 
Marderby and Laysthorpe; to hold of him as freely as he held 
of the king. [ante 1166] 

Byland Chartulary, Egerton MS. 2823, f. 105 (old f. 211). 


Robertus de Stuteuilla omnibus suis tam Francis quam Anglicis 
salutem. Sciatis me dedisse et concessisse Galfrido Fossard feodum 
unius militis ei et heredibus suis tenere de me et de heredibus meis, 
scilicet Sutton’ et Martherby et Leysethorp’, cum omnibus pertinentiis 
suis in silvis et planis in molendinis et in omnibus que illi feodo perti- 
nent; et concedo ei tam libere tenere de me sicut ego teneo de rege. 
Valete. Teste, Helewisa uxore sua? et Ricardo de Chedolm, Petro 
presbitero et Thoma clerico et Waltero de Peletoft, etc. 


The knight’s fee of the old feoffment which is the subject of this and 
the next charter was held of the grantor by Geoffrey Fossard in 1166 ; and 
an account of it is given in Chapter IV, §6. The date of Geoffrey’s death 
and of the succession of Adam is not known; but the next charter shows 
that it was not later than 1183, when Robert de Stuteville died. 


16. Confirmation by Robert de Stuteville [III] to Adam Fossard 
and his heirs of the knight’s fee in Sutton [under Whitestone 
Cliffe], Marderby and Laysthorpe, and the advowson of the 
church of Felixkirk; on the day when Adam married Hawise his 
niece. | [c. 1170-1183] 


MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 148, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 
Robertus de Stuteuilla omnibus hominibus suis tam Francis 
quam Anglicis salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et hac mea carta con- 
1 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxv, 121. 


2 Sic, but it is likely that Helewise was the grantor’s wife (see p. 7 
above), and that the word should be mea. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 97 


firmasse Ade Fossart feudum unius militis, scilicet Suttun et Marthereby 
et Leisthorp, cum pertinentiis suis et advocationem ecclesie sancti 
Felicis sine ullo retenemento illi et heredibus suis; tenendum de me et 
heredibus meis tam libere et quiete sicut ego teneo de rege. Hanc 
vero concessionem feci ei die quo desponsavit Hawisam neptem 
meam. Hii sunt testes, Willelmus filius et heres meus, Reginaldus ... ,1 
Willelmus de Vesci, Johannes de Stuteuilla, Daniel presbiter, Ricardus 
Croere, Normanus de Bozale, Reginaldus de . . . ,t Robertus de Russe- 
dale, Thomas de Sancto Petro, Baldricus de Buhu, Terri de Kerebi, 
Reginaldus . . . ,' Gilebertus Tateman, Suanus pistor, Robertus 
Peuere,? Paen de Suttun. 


17. Notification by Robert the dean and the chapter of York of an 
exchange between Roger de Mowbray, Robert de Stuteville [IIT], 
and Robert de Daiville and Juliana his wife, daughter of Thurstan 
de Montfort, by which, whereas Robert de Daiville was holding 
a moiety of Langford [co. Nottingham] of Roger de Mowbray 
in fee and the other moiety of Langford with the vill of Kilburn 
in frank-marriage of Robert de Stuteville, whose sister he had 
accepted as his wife, Roger de Mowbray gave to Robert de 
Stuteville the former moiety of Langford in exchange for Kilburn ; 
and Robert de Daiville, holding Kilburn of Roger de Mowbray, 
gave it to Juliana for her dower, who quitclaimed her dower 
rights in a moiety of Langford. [1154-70] 

Reg. Mag. Album (D. and C. York), i, 73. 


Robertus decanus et capitulum ecclesie sancti Petri Ebor[acensis] 
omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis salutem. Sciant omnes tam presentes 
quam futuri quod in presentia nostra hoc modo factum est escambium 
inter Rogerum de Mulbray et Robertum de Stuteuill’ et Robertum de 
Daiuill’ ejusque uxorem Julianam filiam Thurstani de Munford et® 
de Kilburn. Robertus namque de Daiuill’ tenebat medietatem de 
Landefordo in feudo et hereditate de Rogero de Mulbray et alteram 
medietatem de Landeford cum tota villa de Killeburn tenebat in 
maritagio de Roberto de Stuteuille cujus sororem in conjugem 
acceperat. Dedit autem Rogerus de Moulbrai Roberto de Stuteuill’ 
illam medietatem Landeford quam Robertus de Daiuille de eo in 
feudo et hereditate tenuerat in escambium pro Kilburn, et Robertus 
de Stuteuiile quietam clamavit eandem Killeburn imperpetuum Rogero 
de Moulbrai de se et heredibus suis. Sic itaque factum est hoc 
escambium ut Robertus de Daiuille totam Landeford teneat in mari- 
tagio de Roberto de Stuteuill’ sicut ejus medietatem cum tota Kilburn 
antea tenuerat et ut idem Robertus de Daiuille teneat totam Killeburn 
in feudo et hereditate de Rogero de Moubrai sicut prius alteram 
medietatem Landeford tenuerat de eo. Q[uonia]m etiam Robertus de 
Daiuille dedit prefate uxori sue Juliane in escambium pro dote sua 
Killeburn quam de Rogero de Mulbrai in feudum et hereditatem 
acceperat, et ipsa Juliana uxor sua quietum clamavit quicquid juris 
habuerat in Landeford cujus medietatem Robertus de Deyuille maritus 


1 Left blank in Dodsw. 2 Or Peuore. 
3 Possibly de Landeford before et has been omitted in error. 


98 STUTEVILLE FEE 


suus ei antea dederat in dotem, hujus escambii conventionem imper- 
petuum firmiter observandum affidarunt in manu Roberti decani 
Ebor[acensis] Rogerus de Moulbrai et Robertus de Stuteuille de se et 
heredibus suis; affidavit quoque in manu ejusdem Roberti decani 
predicta Juliana uxor Roberti de Daiuille quod nuncquam nec per 
se nec per alterum quipiam reclamabit nec nomine dotis aliquid exiget 
in prefata villa Landeford. Si quis autem horum ab hoc escambio sive 
conventione recedere voluerit nos in eum s[um]mam anathematis ex 
precepto domini archiepiscopi faciemus. Testibus hiis, Roberto 
decano Ebor[acensi], Roberto magistro scolarum, Simone de Sig[illo], 
Thoma de Rain[euille], Geroldo filio Serlonis. 


It can be deduced that before the issue of this agreement Robert de 
Stuteville III had become possessed of an interest both in Kilburn and in a 
moiety of Langford. Kilburn was held by Hugh son of Baldric in 1086, and 
passed to Nigel d’Aubigny with other lands of Robert de Stuteville I, and 
so to Roger de Mowbray.! It can be supposed, therefore, that it formed, 
like the manor of Kirkby Moorside with several berewicks, a portion of the 
under-tenancy granted by Roger de Mowbray to Robert de Stuteville III. 
With regard to Langford a manor there, of 2 carucates 3} bovates, was 
held in chief by Geoffrey de Wirce in 1086.2 This, with other land held 
by Geoffrey elsewhere, also became a member of the honour of Mowbray ; 
and the terms of the present agreement suggest that an interest in the 
manor, probably a moiety, had formed another portion of the under- 
tenancy mentioned above. In the agreement of 1201, settling the Stute- 
ville-Mowbray disputes (no. 43 below), Langford was then included among 
the places in which William de Stuteville quitclaimed all right against 
William de Mowbray, thus setting aside part of the present agreement. 

Robert de Daiville was succeeded by his son John in the period 1185-91 
(no. 137). Juliana his wife, mentioned in the present charter, was living in 
1202.3 In 1206 John de Daiville (de Auvill’) gave 40s. for a writ that William 
de Mowbray should restore Langford to him, namely a knight’s fee, which 
Robert de Daiville his father had given in marriage to Roger de Caily with 
Joan his daughter, who was dead and whose son had died without an heir, 
so that the fee ought to revert to him, the said John, as son and heir of 
Robert.‘ 

The extreme limits of date for the present agreement are 1154, being 
the earliest date for the feoffment made to Robert de Stuteville III by 
Roger de Mowbray, and 1177 when Robert, master of the schools of York, 

was drowned.> The last three witnesses were all canons of York. Gerold 
son of Serlo and Thomas de Raineville witnessed as canons, 1149-53 ;° the 
former and Simon de Sigillo, 1154-60 ;7 and all three witnessed as canons 
a charter of Robert II the dean and the chapter, 1158-62.8 As Simon de 
Sigillo had apparently ceased to be a canon by 1170 ,° that can be taken 
as the latest limit. 


! Some charters relating to Kilburn are printed in Chapter V. 

2 OSB Ay ZO. 

3 Complete Peerage, new ed., iv, 131n, where there is an account of the 
family ; the manor of Kilburn was sold in 1319 (p. 133). 

+ Rot. de Fin., p. 347. 5 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxv, 131. 

© iY JO, 1, HOS, GA 27 1. ” lbtd,, li m0. 1085, 

e1071d., tory. 9 Ibsd., no. 161. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 99 


18. Confirmation by Robert de Stuteville [III] to the Temple of the 
Lord [at Jerusalem, 7.e. the priory of North Ferriby] of the gift 
made by John de Hessle of all his land and that of his men 
in [?] Hessle, and [?] woodland of the same breadth extending 
to the Humber. [c. 1164-1183] 

Bodleian Library MS. Add. C. 51, fragment of a North Ferriby 
Chartulary, f. 4V. 

Omnibus fidelibus visuris et audituris litteras has Robertus de 
Stuteuile salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et hac presenti carta 
mea confirmasse donacionem illam quam Johannes de Hesell’ dedit 
et concessit templo Domini et fratribus ibidem Deo servientibus, 
videlicet totam terram ejus et hominum suorum in Holflet Wria et 
grouos ejusdem latitudinis usque in Humbre fluvium in liberam et 
perpetuam elemosinam sicut carta predicti Johannis attestatur, pro 
salute anime mee et uxoris mee et patris et matris mee et omnium 
antecessorum meorum. Hiis testibus, domino Adam et domino Galfrido 
de [blank] et fratre Warino monachis, Rogero de Stuteuill’, Roberto 
Murdak, etc. 


The section, headed Hesell’, includes several charters of John de Hesell’ 
to the brethren of the house at North Ferriby ; his charter making the gift 
confirmed by Robert de Stuteville was witnessed by Simon, Osbert, and 
Philip Morinus, canons of Beverley ;! another was witnessed by Roger 
‘persona de Houden’ and others then present ‘cum domino Johanne de 
Hesell’ at the siege of Acre, handing the charter ‘in manum domini Petribricii 
qui tunc temporis erat prior ejusdem templi dominici’. John’s gifts were 
confirmed by his son Robert, who issued several other charters making 
gifts in Hessle and South Ferriby (ff. 6-8Y). Some notes on the family are 
given in Chapter LV, §17. The priory of North Ferriby was a cell of the 
Austin Canons of the order of the Temple of the Lord at Jerusalem.? 

Robert Murdac, the last witness, held a knight’s fee of the grantor in 
1166 (Chapter IV, §2). 


19. Gift by William de Stuteville, with the consent of Emma his 
wife and the confirmation of his lord Roger de Mowbray, to 
Rievaulx abbey of a piece of land lying between the public road 
from Hesketh and the bounds of Boltby as far as the land of 
Murton [par. Hawnby] extended, with common of pasture of 
Murton. [ante 1158] 

Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 57d (old f. 53d).3 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 89. 

Notum sit universis filiis sancte matris ecclesie quod ego Willel- 
mus de Stulta uilla concedente uxore mea Emma pro amore 
Dei et salute anime mee et uxoris mee et parentum nostrorum do et 
concedo in elemosinam Deo et sancte Marie et monachis Rieuall[ensibus] 
quandam particulam terre, illam videlicet que jacet inter viam publicam 
de Hestelscait et metas Boltebie et hoc quantum terra de Mortun se 
extendit, liberam et quietam ab omnibus causis et consuetudinibus et 


1 Canons of Beverley named Simon and Philip witnessed in the period 
1164-70 (£.Y.C., i, no. 161). 
2 V.C.H. Yorks., iii, 241. 3 Marginal number xlvii. 


100 STUTEVILLE FEE 


omni terreno servitio in perpetuum et per omnia communem pasturam 
ejusdem Mortun, domino meo Rogero de Molbrai hanc elemosinam 
meam carta sua confirmante. His testibus, Alueredo presbitero, Lam- 
berto clerico, Waltero filio Ricardi, Symone de Lindesai, Edgaro coco, 
Aschetino presbitero de Witham, Stephano milite, Willelmo! de 
Stulta villa. 


Murton, par. Hawnby, wap. Birdforth, held at the Survey by Robert 
Malet, became a member of the honour of Mowbray.* The family of Malebisse 
held an under-tenancy ; and the vill was given by Hugh Malebisse to Byland 
abbey, with the confirmation of Roger de Mowbray.? William his brother, 
who it can be supposed also had an interest there,# married Emma, an 
illegitimate daughter of William de Percy.* Farrer supposed that after 
the death of William Malebisse in 1176 she married a William de Stuteville;§ 
and on that assumption the grantor of the present charter was dealing with 
land of her first husband which she held in dower. 

Any theory of that kind must, however be discarded. It must be 
supposed that the present charter was issued not later than 1157, for in 
the general confirmation charter of Henry II to the abbey issued not later 
than that year there is the clause ‘ex dono Willelmi de Stutevilla quandam 
partem terre in Morthona sicut idem Willelmus illis dedit’.? Such a date 
makes it impossible for this William to have married the widow of William 
Malebisse ; and further it makes it reasonably impossible that the grantor 
was William the eldest son of Robert de Stuteville III. It is therefore likely 
that he was William, the latter’s brother, who with him claimed lands held 
by Roger de Mowbray in 1147 (see p. 5 above). 

The fact that William’s lord is given as Roger de Mowbray introduces 
the suggestion that the compromise had already been made by which Roger 
granted the 10 knights’ fees to Robert de Stuteville ; but the deduction is 
not altogether safe as the land granted by this charter may have been 
held in Emma’s right. No acceptable suggestion can be offered, however, 


for her identity. 


20). Confirmation by William de Stuteville to Guisborough priory 
of the gift made by John de Hessle in regard to the church of 
Hessle. [c. 1175-83] 


Pd. in E.Y.C., ii, no. 765, from Guisborough Chartulary, Cotton 
MS. Cleopatra D. ui, f. 346; and in Guisborough Chartulary, 
ii, no. 1061. 


Willelmus de Stuteuill’ omnibus ad quos littere iste pervenerint 
salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et hac mea carta confirmasse Deo et 
ecclesie sancte Marie de Giseb[urne] et canonicis ibidem Deo servienti- 
bus in liberam puram et perpetuam elemosinam donacionem illam 


1 Willelmi in the pd. text; and it is probable that this is an amend- 
ment to the MS. which can be regarded as likely. 

2 E.Y.C., iil, p. 459. 3 Ibid. no. 1836; arid note: 

4 Cf. the charter of his son Richard (ibid., no. 1837). 

5 Complete Peerage, new ed., x, 442n. 

6 E.Y.C., ili, p. 456, with a query in the Malebisse pedigree ;.he had, 
perhaps, the present charter in mind. 

7 Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 212 (p. 152) ; Eustace son of John, who died 
in 1157, was a witness, 


CHARTERS OF. PHE SIUIEVILLE FAMILY 101 


quam Johannes de Hasla eis fecit super ecclesia de Hasla. Hiis testibus, 
R[icardo] priore et Nig[ello] et Bern[ardo] canonicis de Nouo Burgo, 
Willelmo de Cottingh[am], magistro Rogero Arundel, Bernardo de 
Rippeley, Willelmo de Vescy, Rainerio senescallo, Willelmo de Scalis, 
Willelmo de Karl[eolo], Willelmo filio Hugonis, Rogero Cato, Willelmo 
filio Aldon’. 


There is no doubt that this and the ensuing charters were issued by 
William the eldest son of Robert de Stuteville IIL. The present charter 
was included in charters relating to the Brus fee, apparently in error.! 
The original gift of the church to the priory, made by Ivo de Charcheni or 
Karkeni with the consent of John [de Hessle] his son, and John de Hessle’s 
charter relating thereto, are printed at nos. 101-2; and cf. no. 18. 

The latest date for the present charter is 1186, by which year Bernard 
had become prior of Newburgh; and, if it can be assumed that William 
de Vescy was the head of that family, who died in the year ending at 
Michaelmas 1183,? that would give an earlier limit. This would show that 
the charter was issued in the lifetime of the grantor’s father. The occurrence 
of master Roger Arundel as a witness suggests 1175 as the earliest limit.3 


21. Agreement in the presence of William de Stuteville between 
Roald prior of Guisborough and Richard Duket, clerk, by which 
the latter should hold the church of Hessle, rendering 5 marks 
yearly to the priory in the name of pension, 5 marks for the 
good of peace, and the sum of 20 marks within four years which 
the priory had given to the pope for the corn of the church. 

[c. 1190-1203] 
Guisborough Chartulary, Cotton MS. Cleopatra D. ii, f. 347. Pd. 
in Guisborough Chartulary, 11, no. 1067. 

Omnibus has litteras visuris vel audituris Willelmus de Stuteuill’ 
salutem. Noveritis quod in presencia mea ita convenit inter Roald[um] 
priorem Giseb[urne] et ejusdem loci conventum et Ricardum Ducet 
clericum, scilicet quod idem Ricardus tenebit ecclesiam de Hesel cum 
omnibus pertinenciis reddendo inde singulis annis ipsis priori et 
conventui quinque marcas nomine pensionis et quinque marcas pro 
bono pacis. Insuper eciam reddet idem Ricardus infra quatuor annos 
illas viginti marcas quas dederunt summo pontifici pro blado ecclesie 
de Hesel, quod bladum idem Ricardus habuit. Et in hujus rei testi- 
monium hoc scriptum feci sigillo meo signatum. 


Roald occurs as prior in 1194-98 and 1199 ;* and it is unlikely that he 
succeeded Ralph as prior earlier than c. 1190. Richard Duket occurs as 
rector of Hessle in another Guisborough charter (no. 104 below). 


22. Record of the actions taken by William de Stuteville with regard 
to his father’s benefactions to Meaux abbey. [1183-97] 


Pd. in Chron. Mon. de Melsa, Rolls Ser., i, 227. 


1 Hessle is not included in the list of members of the Brus fee in EF. Y.C., 
ii, pp. 16-19. . 

2 Pipe moll 28 Hen dl, ~. 52; 29 Hen. 11, p. 140: 

3 E.Y.C., ii, p. 376, giving details of him from 1181 to his death in 1210. 

* E.Y.C., ili, p. 387 ; Guisborough Chartulary, 11, no. 686c. 


102 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Interea Willielmus de Stutevylla dominus de Cotyngham quia 
prepotens erat molendinum quod pater suus nobis dederat nobis 
abstulit et cartam patris sui quam inde habuimus tum minis tum 
promissis fallacibus extorsit. Sed tamen dedit nobis in escambium 
prefati molendini sedem alterius molendini prope pristinum molen- 
dinum ad bladum nostrum proprtum molendum. Coegit etiam nos 
dare medietatem expensarum ad faciendum magnum fossatum quod 
ad heremitorium suum exit in Hullum. In cujus capite australi juxta 
aquam vivam quam tunc ibidem descendere fecerat de Cotyngham 
unum molendinum ad opus nostrum fecimus et ipse juxta illud aliud 
faciebat ad opus suum; aquam illam et piscariam ejus inter ipsum et 
nos partiendo. Et ipse nihilominus sibi faciebat molendina super 
aquam vivam quam nobis auferebat. Sed et illud vetus croftum duarum 
acrarum et iv. perticatarum quod pater suus dudum nobis cum 
prefato molendino pristino [concessit] et quod ipse Willielmus cum 
prefato molendino nobis pariter abstulit nobis iterum reconcessit in 
escambium pro duobus croftis que in ipso territorio prius habebamus, 
perticatam pro perticata. 


This is entered in the time of Thomas, the third abbot (1182-97). An 
earlier entry in the time of Philip, the second abbot (1160-82) records that 
William de Stuteville and Benedict de Sculcotes, making ditches for draining 
Cottingham marsh, seized the greater part of the common pasture of Myton 
and neighbouring vills.1 That proves that William de Stuteville was dealing 
with Cottingham affairs in his father’s lifetime ; but it is unlikely that his 
actions recorded here took place before his father’s death. A record of the 
gifts made by his father is given at no. 9 above. After William’s death there 
was a further dispute about the mill with his brother Nicholas, who gave 
easements and fishing rights with certain reservations and issued confirma- 
tions for a sum of 30 marks.? 


23. Grant by B[ernard] the prior and the chapter of Newburgh to 
William de Stuteville of the provision of a resident chaplain in 
the chapel of Gillamoor [par. Kirkby Moorside]* to sing daily 
for the health of his soul and for the souls of his parents. 

[1183-99] 

PLATE I 

Original charter in the muniments of Lord Middleton, now on deposit 

in Nottingham University Library. Pd. in Hist. MSS. Comm., 
Lord Middleton, p. 6, 

Vniuersis sancte matris ecclesie filiis . B . prior et capitulum 
ecclesie sancte Marie de Nouoburgo salutem. Sciatis nos concessisse 
et presenti carta confirmasse . Willelmo de Stuteuilla et heredibus 
eius pro deuotione quam habuit erga ecclesiam nostram . quod nos 
inueniemus capellanum residentem in capella de Gillingemora in 
perpetuum . qui ibi cotidie cantet pro salute anime predicti Willelmi 
de Stuteuilla . et pro animabus patris et matris eius . et omnium ante- 

1 Chron., i, 169. 

2 Ibid., pp. 313-4. ; 

3 Not Gilling as given in H.M.C. For the spelling of Gillamoor given 

here and in no. 24, and similar spellings (cf. no. 51 below) see Place-Names 

of N.R., Eng. Place-Name Soc., p. 64. 


PLATE 1 


‘ur € £q £8 9ZIS 


adymousoy dg owlw() 


ed ompfadingey «pumps 2g aproog 
“HPI 25 aged Pps oe ee Pine 28 Semen “teeny fo 


“2)28 map opens oy pg Ge Mancelpiane. e, owen aay ye ped 
ity Sau aiguey "J! nb -ymaadhin wolnaSiunync 29 bypdey ts ange? eypauy our 


ombyreln (ayia v2 id i, tab Anowpndg dou yogag4 Kypranas 2g aay “ai ae 
B42) ipoues fou pages, “pc alnganolj x MUD) m9) aypy mma) 420d-g-Hopy dy HIRT ae ‘on | 


€Z “ON 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 103 


cessorum eius. Hiis testibus . Willelmo clerico de Cotingheham . 
Ricardo clerico de Botshal . Hugone capellano . Bartholomeo de 
Stuteuilla . Roberto de Melsa . Benedicto de Sculecotes . Radulfo 
filio Paulini Eborac’ . Adam de Staueleia . Roberto filio Giuonis . 
Johanne Burgenun . Martino de Rothomago . Ricardo Golle . Laurentio 
de Donecast{[ria]. 


Seal: the Virgin and Child; [bf SIGILLVM SANCTE] MARIE DE 
NEVBUR[GO].! 


There can be no doubt that the grantor was Bernard, who became 
prior of Newburgh in the period 1181-86 and held office until 1199.2 This 
charter, and the next which was issued on the same occasion, were probably 
issued soon after William de Stuteville succeeded his father in the manor 
of Kirkby Moorside. 


24. Confirmation by William de Stuteville of the gift made by 
Adam Fossard [to Newburgh priory] of the place of Hood [par. 
Kilburn]; and grant that the chaplain resident in the chapel of 
Gillamoor should have reasonable easements and pasture. 

[1183-99] 

MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 168, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 

Tower, York. Pd. in Mon. Ang., vi, 322, from another source. 

Willelmus de Stutteuilla omnibus visuris vel audituris litteras 

istas salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et presenti carta confirmasse dona- 

cionem quam fecit Adam Fossard de loco de Hod sicut carta predicti 

Ade testatur. Concedo etiam et hac presenti carta confirmo quod 

capellanus qui residens erit in capella de Gillingemore habeat racionabile 

haisiamentum in bosco et in plano et pastura cum hominibus ejusdem 

ville. Huis testibus, Willelmo clerico de Cotingham, Ricardo clerico 

de Botsal, Hugone capellano, Bartholomeo de Stuteuilla, Roberto de 

Melsa, Benedicto de Sculecotes, Radulfo filio Paulini Eborac’, Ada 

de Staueleia, Roberto filio Giuonis, Johanne Burgenun, Martino de 
Rothomago, Ricardo Golle, Laurentio de Donecastre. 


The controversy between Newburgh priory and Adam Fossard had 
been settled in the presence of Robert de Stuteville and William his son 
(no. 121). 


25. Confirmation by William de Stuteville to Byland abbey of the 
site of the abbey erected on his patrimony, and of all its posses- 
sions of his fee and heritage. [1183-1201] 


MS. Dodsworth Ixiii, f. 35, from the Byland Chartulary, f. 64. 


~Omanibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis visuris vel audituris literas 
istas Willelmus de Stutteuill salutem. Notum sit universitati vestre 
me concessisse et dedisse et hac mea carta confirmasse Deo et monachis 
sancte Marie de Beghlanda sedem abbatie sue que fundata est in 
patrimonio meo et quicquid habent® de feodo et heritagio meo, in 

1 NE a ligature. An illustration of another example of the priory seal 
is given in Archaeologia, vol. |xxviii, pl. vi, no. 10, described on p. 26. 


2 See the notes on the early priors of Newburgh in Appendix C. 
3 habuit, MS. 


104 STUTEVILLE FEE 


perpetuam elemosinam liberam et quietam ab omni terreno servicio 
pro salute anime mee et patris et matris mee et omnium predecessorum 
et heredum meorum. Et ego et heredes mei warantizabimus eisdem 
monachis predicta omnia contra omnes homines in perpetuum. His 
testibus, Willelmo de Cottingham, Roberto de Melsa, Benedicto de 
Sculecot’, Galfrido Wacel[in], Galfrido de Bosco Willelmi,! Willelmo 
de Furn[es’] fratre Richeri de Furnes’, Bartholomeo de Stutteuill’, 
Ricardo clerico de Danecastre. 


In 1177 the monks of Byland had moved from Stocking to their final 
home in the parish of Kilburn, near Coxwold.* This charter was probably 
issued before the grantor relinquished his claim to that part of the Mowbray 
barony there in the settlement of 1201 (no. 43). 


26. Confirmation by William de Stuteville to Keldholme priory of 
2 bovates of land in Fadmoor [par. Kirkby Moorside], given by 
Robert de Maltby and Emma his wife and Jordan de Boltby 


and Sibyl his wife. [1190-1201] 
MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 216’, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 


Willelmus de Estuteuill omnibus hanc cartam visuris vel audituris 
salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et hac carta mea confirmasse Deo et 
ecclesie Beate Marie de Keldholm et monialibus ibidem Deo servi- 
entibus donacionem quam Robertus de Mautebi et Emma uxor ejus 
et Jordanus de Boutebi et Sibilla uxor ejus eis fecerunt de duabus bovatis 
terre cum pertinentiis in Faddemor que sunt de feodo meo sicut carte 
illorum quas predicte moniales inde habent testantur. Huis testibus, 
Eustachio de Vesci, Eustachio de Estutteuill’, Roberto fratre suo, 
Willelmo persona de Cotinham, Benedicto de Sculec[otes], Gaufrido 
Fossard, Ada de Stauele, Reginaldo de Capetot, Gaufrido de Bosco 
Willelmi, Alano filio Turkilli. 


Among the gifts confirmed by king John to Keldholme priory on 
4 Feb. 1200-1 (see note to no. 13 above) were 2 bovates in Nunnington and 
one bovate in Fadmoor given by Robert de Maltby and Emma his wife, 
and the same amounts in the same places given by Jordan de Boltby and 
Sibyl his wife. The 2 bovates in Fadmoor, of William de Stuteville’s fee, 
were those confirmed by the present charter.. The charter of Robert de 
Maltby and Emma his wife, issued on the same occasion, is printed at no. 

, T18. 

An account of the family of Jordan de Boltby, probably a younger 
brother of Adam de Boltby, who held a knight’s fee of Robert de Stuteville 
III in 1166, is given in Chapter IV, §7. Jordan de Boltby and Robert 
de Maltby evidently married two sisters in whose right they held land in 
Nunnington and Fadmoor. 

In 1204 there was an assize to recognize whether Odo father of Enisand 
was seised in demesne of 2 bovates in Fadmoor when he died, which the 
prioress of Keldholme was holding ; who said that the heir of William de 

1 Willelmo, MS. ; but see nos. 26, 30. 

4 Mon, Ang., v, 353. 

3 Outline drawing of seal with no details except the word WILLEL .. ., 
and description of an equestrian seal broken. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 105 


Stuteville ought to warrant, whose land was in the king’s hand, and she 
knew not whom to vouch to warranty.! 

The earliest date for the present charter can be taken as 1190, when 
Eustace de Vescy came of age in the year ending at Michaelmas.* The 
identity of the second and third witnesses is uncertain, but they were pro- 
bably the two brothers of the grantor so named (pp. 7, 8 above). 


27. Gift by William de Stuteville to John de Ryton of an essart in 
Hutton le Hole [par. Lastingham], rendering a pound of pepper 
yearly; and common pasture for his beasts feeding with those 
of the grantor’s other men. [1190-1203] 

Chartulary of St. Mary’s, York (Dean and Chapter, larger volume), 
£175 (old.t-97)}, no. ZL. 

Omnibus videntibus et audientibus literas has Willelmus de 
Stutteuill? salutem. Sciatis universi quod dedi et hac carta mea con- 
firmavi Johanni de Riton et heredibus suis unum essartum scilicet 
Rumesdale de Thueregate usque ad essartum quod Willelmus pre- 
positus tenet de me; tenendum de me et heredibus meis in feodo et 
hereditate libere et quiete, reddendo mihi et heredibus meis inde 
unam libram piperis annuatim pro omnibus consuetudinibus et pro 
omnibus servitiis. Concessi similiter predicto Johanni et heredibus 
suis communem pasturam ad averia sua pascenda simul cum omnibus 
aliis hominibus meis. His testibus, Eustachio de Vescy, Roberto de 
Melsa, Patricio de Ridale, Hasqui de Venoiz, Regin[aldo] de Capetote, 
Simone de Staingrif, Jordano de Loncastre, Waltero de Ridale, 
Regin[aldo] Malpas, Alano de Mara, Roberto de Monte alto, Willelmo 
Chambord, Roberto de Sicklingehale, Euerardo de Witic, Radulfo 
Nuuel, Roberto filio Guum, Elia forestario, Ricardo de Bueleie, 
Roberto filio Hugonis, Bernardo Franc[eis], Itero filio Guum. 


Three charters from the same section of the Chartulary relating to 
Hutton le Hole are printed at nos. 134-6. For the confirmation of the vill 
to St. Mary’s by Robert de Stuteville III see no. 6. 


28. Confirmation by William de Stuteville to Whitby abbey of the 

church of [Great] Ayton in Cleveland. [1189-91] 

Whitby Chartulary, B.M. Add. MS. 4715, f. 16V (old f. 23V). Pd. in 
Whitby Chartulary, no. 73, from the Chartulary penes Sir Charles 
Strickland, £. 17%. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis presentibus et futuris has 
litteras visuris vel audituris Willelmus de Stuteuilla salutem. Noverit 
universitas vestra me divini amoris intuitu et pro salute anime mee et 
animarum patris et matris mee et heredum meorum concessisse et hac 
mea presenti carta confirmasse Deo et sancto Petro et sancte Hilde de 
Whiteby et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus ecclesiam de Aton’ in 
Cliueland cum omnibus pertinenciis suis ad proprios usus monachorum 

1 Curia Regis Rolls, iii, 91. In 1208 Basilia prioress of Keldholme 

recognized the 2 bovates as the right of Nisant de Fademor, who gave a 


moiety thereof to the priory in frankalmoin (Yorks. Fines, John, p. 152). 
A Pipe Hou Vi hicid, p35 2 Rierl, pp. Zi, 68. 


106 STUTEVILLE FEE 


in perpetuam elemosinam.  Test[ibus], GJ[alfrido] archidiacono’, 
Petro archidiacono Karlfeolensi], Reginaldo Arundel,? et aliis. 


Great Ayton was partly a member of the Meinill fee. Some notes 
relating to it, and to a younger branch of the Stuteville family possessing 
subordinate interests there and in Hemlington, have been given at pp. 37-9 
above. 

The limits of date for the present charter are assigned on the assumption 
that the first two witnesses are Geoffrey de Muschamp, who was archdeacon 
of Cleveland from 1189 to 1198,3 and Peter de Ros, who was succeeded as 
archdeacon of Carlisle by 1191.‘ 


29. Confirmation by William de Stuteville to Arnold de Upsall of 
the vills of Upsall, [South] Kilvington and Thornbrough, to 
hold by the service of a knight’s fee, as Ralph de Upsall his 
ancestor had held them of Ralph Paynel by the same service. 

[1191-94] 
PLATE 
Original charter, B.M. Add. Ch. 19922. 

Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Willelmus de Estuteuill’ 
concessi et hac mea carta presenti [confirmaui]? Ernaldo de Upsale 
et heredibus suis [totam terram de] Upsale et Kiluinton’ et Thorneberge 
cum omnibus pertinenciis [suis tenJendam de me et heredibus meis in 
feodo et hereditate faciendo inde mihi et heredibus meis seruicium feodi 
unius militis pro omni seruicio . scilicet sicut uncquam liberius uel 
quietius Rad[ulfus] de Upsale antecessor ipsius Ernaldi predictas 
uillas cum pertinenciis tenuit® de Rad[ulfo] Paganell’ scilicet per 
seruicium feodi unius militis. His testibus . Hug[one] Bard[ulf] . 
Hug[one] de Botby . Galfr[ido] Fossard . Will[elmo] de Meihnill’ 
hermeri . Rob[erto] de Melsa . Bened[icto] de Sculecotes . Ada de 
Bouinton’ . Rad[ulfo] filio Rad[ulfi] . Willelmo de Atton’ . Eust[achio] 
de Vesci . Adam de Staueleia . Regin[aldo] de Captot . Willelmo de 
Skipwit . Regin{aldo] de Stuteuill’ . Galfrido de Piketon’ . Ric[ardo] 
clerico. | 

Portion of seal:’ brown wax; equestrian, sword, shield with boss; 

y {siilGnEe>. >. 


Notes relating to these places and to the Stuteville interest there are 
given in Chapter IV, §12. It is likely that the present charter was issued 
when the first two witnesses were sheriff and deputy-sheriff of Yorkshire 
1191-94. 


30. Gift by William de Stuteville to Geoffrey de Bosco Willelmi of 
13 bovates of land in Little Cattal [par. Hunsingore] and a moiety 
of the mill there, doing the service pertaining to an eighth of a 
knight’s fee. [c. 1180-1199] 


1 Clid’ added in Strickland MS, 7.e. Cleveland. 2 Added from ibid. 

3 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxvi, 427-8. 

* Pipe Roll 3 Ric. I, p. 55 ; and Reg. Wetherhal, p. 70n, giving references. 

5 The beginning of the second, third and fourth lines is ceteeave: 
The words within brackets are suggested. 

6 Written teauntit. 7 BM, Cat. of Seals; no. 5902. 


PLATE II 


Size 6 by 34 in. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 107 


Bridlington Chartulary, B.M. Add. MS. 40008, f. 183V (old f. 1799). 
Abst. in Bridlington Chartulary, p. 240. 

Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Willelmus de Stuteuill’ 
concessi et dedi et hac mea presenti carta confirmavi Galfrido de 
Bosco Willelmi pro homagio et servicio suo xiij. bovatas terre in Parua 
Cathale cum omnibus pertinenciis et omnibus liberis consuetudinibus 
ad eas pertinentibus in bosco et in plano in viis et in semitis in pratis et 
in pascuis in aquis et in omnibus libertatibus, et medietatem molendini 
ejusdem ville illi et heredibus suis; tenend[a] de me et heredibus meis 
in feodo et hereditate libere et quiete et honorifice, faciendo inde mihi 
servicium quantum pertinet ad octavam partem feodi unius militis. 
Hiis t[estibus], Ancell’ de Stuteuill’, Willelmo de Cotingham, Roberto 
de Melsa, Ricardo de Brenton et Ricardo filio ejus, Ricardo Britone, 
Willelmo de Chamboid’,! Radulfo de Bosco, Galfrido de Sancto Petro, 
Rogero fratre Euerardi et H. filio ejus, Alexandro filio Ricardi Briton 
et H. fratre suo, Bartholomeo clerico. 


This is followed by a gift by the grantee to Bridlington priory, for the 
soul of his lord William de Stuteville, of 10 bovates in Cattal, 12 tofts and 
a third of one ‘ovenam’ and a moiety of the mill with the service from 3 
further bovates. 

The Domesday survey shows that land in Cattal was in the soke of 
Aldborough ;? and it was evidently that portion in which William de 
Stuteville acquired an interest in virtue of the grant made to him of Knares- 
borough and Aldborough.$ 

The first witness, Anselm de Stuteville of Weston Colville and Burton 
Agnes, was dead in 1199.4 The grantee witnessed charters nos. 25-6 in the 
period 1183-1201, and other witnesses suggest the earlier limit assigned. 


31. Quitclaim by M. the prior and the convent of St. Andrew, York, 
at the request of Hugh Murdac, their patron, to William de 
Stuteville of all right in 14 carucates of land in Kirkby Ouseburn 
with the advowson of the church, in exchange for 5 bovates of 
land and the service of 4 bovates in Barthorpe Bottoms [par. 
Acklam]. [c. 1200-1203] 

Fountains Chartulary, B.M. Add. MS. 37770, f. 86Y (old p. 172). 
Abst. in Fountains Chartulary, i, 419. 

Cunctis Christi fidelibus M. prior et conventus sancti Andree 
Ebor[acensis] salutem in Domino. Sciatis nos ad peticionem domini 
H[ugonis] Murdac advocati nostri quietumclamasse imperpetuum 
domino W[illelmo] de Stuteuill’ totum jus quod habuimus in una 
carucata terre et dimidia cum pertinenciis suis et cum advocacione 
ecclesie de Kyrkeby Vsebrun’ pro quinque bovatis terre cum perti- 
nenciis et pro servicio quatuor bovatarum terre in Barkerthorp’ que 


1 Sic., but doubtless vecte Chambord. 
2 V.C.H. Yorks., ii, 282. Another charter relating to Little Cattal, of 
the Arches fee, is pd. in E.Y.C., 1, no. 536. 

3 See p. 9n above, where there are notes of printed texts of other 
charters issued by William de Stuteville relating to the two manors. Many 
details relating to their composition and financial aspect are given by 
Farrer in E.Y.C., i, notes to nos. 508 and 515. 

+ See Chapter I, §3 for his family. 


108 STUTEVILLE FEE 


nobis dedit in escambium pro prefata terra de Kirkeby.! Hiis testibus, 
domino H[ugone] Murdac, Willelmo de Ruelaie, Benedicto de 
Sculecotes, Henrico de Knaresburg’, Hugone capellano, Radulfo de 
Bosco, Radulfo de Carenci, Gervasio de Traili, et multis aliis. 


Kirkby Ouseburn, which was in the soke of Knaresborough, is now 
represented by Kirkby Hall in Little Ouseburn, and the church by that of 
Little Ouseburn. In the section on the Crown Demesne, dealing with Knares- 
borough and Aldborough, Farrer printed a charter of William de Stuteville, 
giving to Ralph son of Siward de Kirkby Ouseburn and to Emeline his wife, 
daughter of Avice de Chambord, 9 acres of land in Kirkby Ouseburn.? This 
was taken from the Fountains Chartulary, where there is a section of over 
forty charters relating to Kirkby Ouseburn, many of which illustrate William 
de Stuteville’s interest there. The present charter and the next refer to the 
advowson ; no. 33 shows the gift made by William to Fountains abbey of 
all his land there ; and no. 49 is a confirmation made by his brother Nicholas. 

The advowson was acquired by Fountains. In Jan. 1209-10 Robert prior 
of St. Andrew’s quitclaimed to Alan de Kirkby-his right in 12 bovates in 
Kirkby Ouseburn (evidently the 14 carucates of the present charter) and 
to John abbot of Fountains his right in 100 acres of land and the advowson ; 
the prior receiving 100s.4 A quitclaim of the advowson to Fountains, for a 
yearly payment of 20s., was also made by Nun Monkton priory,> to which 
house William de Arches and Juetta his wife had confirmed the gift of the 
church of Kirkby Ouseburn not later than the period 1147-53. But on 
1 March 1217-8 Fountains abbey gave the patronage of the church to 
archbishop Gray, who in 1221-22 annexed it to the precentorship of York.’ 

The details of the Domesday survey show that portions of Barthorpe, 
where William de Stuteville gave this land in exchange to St. Andrew’s 
priory, were held by the count of Mortain and Odo Arbalistarius, and it is 
not mentioned among the lands of Hugh son of Baldric. It may be that 
the land here mentioned had become attached to the Stuteville manor of 
Scrayingham, from which it is only 2} miles distant ; or it may actually 
have formed part of Hugh son of Baldric’s 12 carucates in that place at the 
Survey. 

The earliest date for the present charter is that of the foundation of 
St. Andrew’s priory by Hugh Murdac.® - Prior M., not apparently recorded, 
was probably the first prior ; in 1208 the prior was named Bartholomew, 
to whom a certain Juliana widow of Reiner quitclaimed her right in 2 
bovates in Barthorpe.? 


32. Quitclam by Hugh Murdac to William de Stuteville of all 
‘right in 14 carucates of land which had belonged to William son 
of Siward in Kirkby Ouseburn, with the advowson of the church 
of the vill, whereof there had been a dispute between them. 


[c. 1200-1203] 
1 Kuirkekeby, MS. 


4 BY .C., 1, 206. O16. + Fountains Chartulary, i, 416-29. 

* Yorks. Fines, John, p. 162 ; Fountains Chartulary, p. 422 and p. 420 
for a quitclaim to Fountains by G. prior of the order of Sempringham and 
the convent of St. Andrew’s of the advowson and all Hugh Murdac’s lands 
in the vill. 5 Lbtd.,. p. 422, © EX .Oy 1, BO. Boa: 

7 Reg. Gray, pp. 131, 141. 

8 Mon. Ang., vi, 962. 9 Yorks. Fines, John, p. 147. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 109 


Fountains Chartulary, B.M. Add. MS. 37770, f. 85V (old p. 170). 
Abst. in Fountains Chartulary, i, 418. 


Omnibus hominibus has litteras visuris vel audituris Hugo Murdac 
salutem. Sciatis me relaxasse et quietumclamasse de me et de omnibus 
meis Willelmo de Stutteuill’ et heredibus suis inperpetuum totum jus 
et clamum quod habui in una carrucata terre et dimidia que fuerunt 
Willelmi filii Siward in Kyrkeby Vsebrunn’ cum omnibus pertinenciis 
suis et cum advocacione ecclesie ejusdem ville que in illo feodo sita 
est; unde aliquando contencio mota fuit inter me et predictum 
Willelmum de Stutteuill’. Et ut hec mea relaxacio et quietaclamacio 
rata et stabilis perseveret eam presentis scripti et sigilli mei apposicione 
confirmavi. Hiis testibus, Eustachio de Stuteuill’, Roberto de Stuteuill’, 
Benedicto de Sculecotis, Willelmo de Scalis, Roberto forestario, 
Rogero de Bosco, Galfrido de Beellun, Rogero de Sancto Martino, 
Adam persona de Cotingham, Radulfo de Bosco, Johanne de Hames- 
thuait, Roberto de Appelton’, Alano de Ebor[aco], Benedicto clerico. 


An agreement made on 30 Aug. 1190 records the grant of these 14 
carucates by William de Kyrkeby to Hugh Murdac.! There seems to be no 
record of the dispute mentioned in the present charter, the date of which 
is probably of the same period as no. 31. Adam had succeeded William as 
rector of Cottingham ; the latter occurs as rector in the period 1190-1201 
(no. 26), and in other charters as William de Cottingham and William the 
clerk of Cottingham. For the first two witnesses see the note to no. 26. 


33. Gift by William de Stuteville to Fountains abbey with his body 
[for burial] of all his land in Kirkby Ouseburn. — [c. 1201-1203] 


Fountains Chartulary, B.M. Add. MS. 37770, f. 86V (old p. 172). 
Abst. in Fountains Chartulary, i, 419. 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis presentibus et futuris 
Willelmus de Stuteuill’ salutem. Sciatis me dedisse et hac mea carta 
confirmasse Deo et ecclesie sancte Marie de Font[ibus] et monachis 
ibidem Deo servientibus cum corpore meo totam terram quam habui 
in Kyrkebyuseburn’ cum omnibus pertinenciis infra villam et extra 
in puram et perpetuam elemosinam quietam ab omni servicio. Et ego 
et heredes mei prefatam terram cum omnibus pertinenciis predictis 
monachis guarentabimus acquietabimus et defendemus contra omnes 
sicut elemosinam puram quam dedi cum corpore meo. His testibus, 
Haim[one] abbate de Beillfanda], Willelmo de Gernetteby, Johanne 
de Melsa, Nigello de Plumton’, Adam de Stauel’, Adam de Bouinton’, 
Radulfo de Bosco, Ricardo de Donecastro, Ricardo Furun, et multis 
aliis. 

Hamo was blessed as abbot of Byland on 11 Oct. 1198.2 Although 
that gives the earliest limit this charter was presumably later than nos. 31-2. 

William’s gift was confirmed by king John on 7 March 1205-6, and by the 
pope on 1 Dec. 12062 


1 Fountains Chartulary, p. 418. 
2 Howden, Rolls Ser., iv, 77; and cf. Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxviii, 12. 
> Fountains Chartulary, pp. 320, 419. 


110 STUTEVILLE FEE 


34. Presentation by William de Stuteville of the monks of Bardney 
to the churches of [Great] Hale and Heckington [co. Lincoln], 
in confirmation of the charter of Gilbert de Gant before he 
became earl of Lincoln, when Gilbert’s barony and heir, namely 
Gilbert son of Robert de Gant, was in his custody by the authority 
of king Richard I. [1192-1202] 


Bardney Chartulary, Cotton MS. Vespasian E. xx, f. 72 (old f. 67). 


Universis Christi fidelibus ad quos presens carta pervenerit 
Willelmus de Stuteuile salutem. Noverit universitas vestra quod 
audito jure monachorum de Bard[eneia] et cognito super ecclesiis de 
Hale et Hekingt[ona] et rationibus eorum intellectis et plene cognitis 
tam per vivas voces et testimonium baronum de feodo quam per 
cartam Gilberti de Gant eis datam antequam comitatum Lincfolnie] 
fuerit adeptus ipsos ad predictas ecclesias absque omni retencione 
presentavi integre cum omnibus pertinenciis inperpetuum habendas 
sicut predictus Gilbertus de Gaunt eis plenius et melius concessit et 
dedit. Hanc autem presentacionem feci et sigillo meo confirmavi cum 
esset baronia Gilberti de Gaunt et heres ejusdem baronie scilicet 
Gilbertus de Gaunt filius Roberti de Gaunt in custodia mea auctoritate 
et precepto domini regis Ricardi. Test[ibus], magistro Willelmo sub- 
decano Linc’, magistro Stephano archidiacono de Bukingh[amia], etc. 


The elder Gilbert de Gant was created earl of Lincoln c. 1147-48, and 
died in 1156.1. Robert de Gant, his brother, died in 1191, leaving his son 
Gilbert the younger under age. At Michaelmas 1192 William de Stuteville 
rendered account in Lincolnshire of 100 marks for having the custody of 
Robert’s land with his heir. These two churches, described as the gift of 
earl Gilbert his uncle, were subsequently included in the comprehensive 
charter of confirmation to Bardney issued by Gilbert the younger.4 The 
limits of date for the present charter make it uncertain whether the first 
witness was William de Blois, subdean of Lincoln, 1192-97 or William de 
Bramfeid, subdean 1198-1205.5 


On 27 Jan. 1201-2 Gilbert de Gant the younger confirmed to William 
de Stuteville land in Barton-upon-Humber and Hunmanby, which William 
had purchased of Gilbert’s fee; William relinquishing his purchases in 
Gilbert’s fee in Swaledale. This explains the reference to Healaugh in 
Swaledale confirmed to William by king John in 1200 (no. 36). 


35. Grant by king John to William de Stuteville and his heirs of a 
weekly market in the vill of Cottingham. 
At Rouen. 24 Aug. 1199. 


1 Complete Peerage, new ed., vii, 672-3. 

2 Ibid., p. 674. 3 Pipe Roll 4 Ric. I, p. 240. 

4 Mon. Ang., i, 631. Vicarages were ordained in the two churches in 
1346 and 1349 respectively (ibid., pp. 635-6). 

5 Reg.’ Antiquissimum, Linc. Rec. Soc., vi, pp. 35; 125, 152+ and 
R. de Diceto, Rolls Ser., ii, 150 for the year 1197. 

° E.Y.C., ui, p. 493, citing Linc. Fines, i, 17. This proves that Gilbert 
was then of age, and so fixes the latest date for the present charter. 


CHARTERS OF THE..STUTEVILLE FAMILY 111 


Pd. in Hist. MSS. Comm., Lord Middleton, p. 37, from the original 
charter now on deposit in Nottingham University Library ; 
and in Rot. Chartarum, p. 12b.! 

Johannes Dei gratia rex Anglie, dominus Hibernie, dux Nor- 
mannie, Aquitanie, comes Andegavie, archiepiscopis, episcopis, 
abbatibus, comitibus, baronibus, vicecomitibus et omnibus ballivis et 
fidelibus suis, salutem. Sciatis nos dedisse et concessisse et hac 
presenti carta nostra confirmasse dilecto nostro Willelmo de Stutevill’ 
et heredibus suis unum mercatum in villa de Cotingham per unum 
diem in qualibet septimana, scilicet diem Jovis. Et ideo volumus et 
firmiter precipimus quod idem Willelmus et heredes sui post eum 
habeant et teneant bene et in pace mercatum illud cum omnibus 
libertatibus et liberis consuetudinibus ad hujusmodi mercatum 
pertinentibus. Hiis testibus, E. Eliensi episcopo, W. comite Arundell’, 
W. Marescall’, comite de Penbroc. Dat[a] per manum H. Cantuariensis 
archiepiscopi, cancellarii nostri, apud Rothomagum, xxiiij die Augusti, 
regni nostri anno primo. 


Portion of great seal in green wax. 


This was followed by a grant on 23 April 1200 of a yearly fair at 
Cottingham on the eve of the Nativitv of the B.M. and the two following 
days (7-9 Sept.).? 


36. Confirmation by king John to William de Stuteville of Bramham, 
given by Ranulf de Glanville and William Paynel and confirmed 
by William Fossard; of services in Clifford, Bramham and 
Oglethorpe; of Milburn and [Long] Marton, Westmorland, 
given by Geoffrey Ridel; and of Healaugh in Swaledale, given 
by Robert de Rosel. At Guildford. 22 April 1200. 


Pd.in Rot. Chartarum, p. 54b. 


Johannes Dei gratia etc. Sciatis nos concessisse et presenti carta 
confirmasse Willelmo de Stutevill’ Bramham cum pertinentiis et cum 
essartis de dono Rannulfi de Glamvill’ et Willelmi Pagnell’ et con- 
cessionem et confirmationem Willelmi Fossard’ de eodem tenemento et 
servicium Ade filii Roberti de Briddeshal’ de toto tenemento suo 
quod tenuit de Willelmo Fossard’ in Clifford’ et servicitum Willelmi 
de Oclestorp’ de toto tenemento quod tenuit de Willelmo Fossard’ in 
Branham et in Ochlestorp’ et Mileburn’ et Mereton in Westmerailand’ 
cum omnibus earum pertinentiis de dono Gaufridi Ridel et Helagh’ in 
Swaledal’ cum pertinentiis de dono Roberti de Rosel et omnia alia 
tenementa ei data et concessa sicut carte rationabiles donatorum 
testantur. Quare volumus et firmiter precipimus quod predictus Willel- 
mus et heredes sui post eum omnia predicta tenementa habeant et 
teneant bene et in pace libere et quiete et honorifice integre plenarie 
sicut rationabiles carte donatorum testantur. Concessimus etiam eis 
et presenti carta confirmavimus omnia tenementa quecumque idem 
Willelmus tenuit in pace die prime coronationis Ricardi regis fratris 

' The date is there 23 Aug. ; Cotingam is so spelt ; and there are some 


minor differences, e.g. gualibet is omitted, and et fideli is inserted after dilecto. 
* Rot. Chart., p. 54b. 


112 STUTEVILLE FEE 


nostri sicut carta ejusdem regis Ricardi rationabiliter testatur. 
[witness and dating clauses). 


Farrer has given the early history of the manor of Bramham, a member 
of the Fossard fee, in an annotation to a charter of Robert Fossard to Nostell 
priory, c. 1126-1129; and suggested that its acquisition by William de 
Stuteville dates from the time, c. 1175, when William Fossard II was in 
difficulties.! It is probable that Ranulf de Glanville then acquired an interest 
which he gave to William de Stuteville, who married his niece.2 The Paynel 
interest had arisen through the marriage of Agnes Fossard to Alexander 
Paynel, father of William Paynel of Hooton Pagnell. 


William de Stuteville’s tenure of Bramham is illustrated by certain 
charters which are printed among those relating to the Fossard fee : 


(i) his confirmation of land granted in Bramham (E.Y.C., ii, no. 1030). 
(ii) his gift to Nostell priory of land there (zb7d., no. 1031). 
(iii) his agreement in 1192 with the priory of St. Clement, York, 
relating to Monkhaid in Bramham (zbid., no. 1039). 


His principal interest in Bramham appears to have passed eventually 
to Baldwin Wake, who held 2 knights’ fees in Bramham and Clifford of 
Peter de Mauley II (successor of the Fossards) at the latter’s death in 1279.4 
There was land in Oglethorpe which at the Domesday survey was soke of 
the manor of Bramham.5 


Some notes on Clifford, also a manor of the Fossard fee, will be given 
in Chapter IV, §16 in connexion with the holding there of half a knight’s 
fee (part of the 2 knights’ fees mentioned above), which by 1282 had become 
an appurtenance of the Stuteville manor of Buttercrambe, and was then 
held by the successor of Adam son of Robert de Birdsall. 


The confirmation of Milburn was followed on 4 March 1200-1 by the 
grant by king John to William de Stuteville and his heirs of all the king’s 
forest of Milburn within specified bounds.* The vill of Milburn passed to 
William’s brother Nicholas, who gave it to Robert de Vipont, by whom the 
grange of Milburn was given to Shap abbey.’ As a moiety of Long Marton 
was held in 1282 by Roger de Clifford, who married a coheiress of Robert 
de Vipont,® it is probable that Long Marton had been acquired from 
Nicholas de Stuteville similarly. 


Healaugh in Swaledale was a member of the Gant fee there, held of the 
honour of Richmond.? Robert Rosel, presumably an under-tenant, witnessed 
a charter of Robert de Gant relating to land in Swaledale, 1185-91.19 William 
de Stuteville relinquished his purchases there in Jan. 1201-2 (note to no. 34). 


1 £E.Y.C.,, ti, no..101Z, and note. 4. See p. 11 above, 

3 [bid., vi, pp. 40-1; citing ii, nos. 1018-20, 1023, 1037 ; and cf. no. 1022, 
a charter of William Paynel. 

* Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 304. After William’s death the representatives 
of the three daughters of Ranulf de Glanville established interests in Bram- 
ham (pp. 11, 12 above) ; but the principal interest of William probably passed 
to his brother Nicholas, and so by descent from him to Baldwin Wake. 

5 V.C.H. Yorks, ii, 228. ® Rot. Chart., p. 89b. 

7 Mon. Ang., vi, 870. 8 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 478. 

? BY .C:,. Vp Pp. Soe 10 Ibtd., no; 395, 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 113 


37. Grant by king John to William de Stuteville and his heirs of a 
weekly market and a yearly fair at Buttercrambe. 
At Alton. 23 April 1200. 
Pd. in Rot. Chartarum, p. 54b. 


Johannes Dei gratia etc. Sciatis nos dedisse et concessisse et 
presenti carta confirmasse Willelmo de Stutevill’ et heredibus suis 
post eum unum mercatum singulis ebdomadis una die scilicet die 
Sabbati apud Buttrecramb et j. feriam ibidem singulis annis per duos 
dies duraturam scilicet in vigilia sancte Trinitatis et in die ejusdem 
festi. Quare volumus et firmiter precipimus quod idem Willelmus et 
heredes sui post eum predictum mercatum et feriam predictam 
habeant et teneant in perpetuum libere et quiete integre honorifice 
cum omnibus libertatibus et liberis consuetudinibus ad hujusmodi 
mercata et ferias pertinentibus ita tamen quod sint sine detrimento 
vicinorum mercatorun et feriarum. [wztness and dating clauses]. 


38. Appointment by king John of William de Stuteville as sheriff 
of the county of York with the custody of the castles of York 
and Pickering. At Alnwick. 12 Feb. 1200-1. 


Pd. in Rot. Chartarum, p. 101b. 


Rex etc. G. filio Petri etc. Sciatis quod nos commisimus Willelmo 
de Stutevill’? comitatum Ebor[aci] cum castello de Ebor[aco] et castello 
de Pikering’ cum balliva et ipse attornavit loco suo Walterum de Bovin- 
ton’ ad comitatum Ebor[aci] cum castello recipiendum et attornavit 
loco suo Johannem de Meausse ad recipiendum castellum de Pikering’ 
cum balliva. Et ideo vobis mandamus quod mandetis vicecomiti et 
constabulario vestris per litteras vestras patentes quod illa ei liberent. 
Et in rei hujus testimonium litteras nostras patentes vobis mittimus. 
T[este] me ipso apud Alnewic’ xij. die Februarii [anno regni nostri 
secundo]. 


On the same day the king had issued separate letters patent to Henry 
son of Fulch’ with regard to the castle of Pickering, John de Meausse being 
described as a knight.! At Michaelmas 1201 William de Stuteville accounted 
as sheriff of Yorkshire, William Brito acting for him as deputy.? In 1200 
he had given 1500 marks for the custody of the county of York and the 
farm thereof, of which he paid 800 marks by Michaelmas 1201, still owing 
the balance in the following year? — 


39. Grant by king John to William de Stuteville of licence to enclose 
and fortify his houses of Cottingham and Buttercrambe. 
At York. 2 March 1200-1. 


Original charter in the muniments of Lord Middleton, now on deposit 
in the Nottingham University Library.*+ Pd. in Hist. MSS. 
Comm., Lord Middleton, p. 51, from the original ; and in Rot. 
Chartarum, p. 89b.° 


1 Loc. cit., two entries earlier. 2 Pipe Roll 3 John, p. 148. 

3 Rot. de Obl., p. 109; Pipe Roll 3 John, p. 158 ; 4 John, p. 57. 

* Reproduced from a photograph in a brochure of the library’s special 
collections (1950), p. 3. 

5 Totingham is there given in error. 


114 STUIEVILEE FEE 


Johannes Dei gratia rex Angl{ie] . dominus Hibernie . dux 
Norm[annie] . Aquit[anie] comes Andegfauie] . archiepiscopis . epis- 
copis . abbatibus . comitibus . baronibus . justic[iis] . vicecomitibus . 
prepositis . ministris et omnibus balliuis et fidelibus suis salutem. 
Sciatis quod nos dedimus et concessimus Willelmo de Estuteuill’ 
licentiam claudendi et firmandi domos suas de Cotyng’ham et de 
Buttercram prohibentes ne quis eum super hoc disturbet. Testibus 
Willelmo comite Sarisbyr’ . G . filio Petri comite Essex[ie] . Hugone 
Bardulf’ . Petro de Pratell[is] . Symone de Pateshull’. Dat[a] per 
manum Symonis archidiaconi Wellen[sis]. Apud Eboracum . jj. 
die Martii anno regni nostri secundo; 


Fragment of great seal in green wax. 


40. Grant by king John to William de Stuteville and his heirs of 
Bardsey, Collingham, Compton and Rigton, to hold in fee-farm 
at a yearly rent of 1001. At York. 2 March 1200-1. 

Pd. in Rot. Chartarum, p. 89b. ) 


Johannes Dei gratia etc. Sciatis nos concessisse et presenti 
carta nostra confirmasse Willelmo de Stutevill’! et heredibus suis 
Berdeseyam et Colingham et Compton’ et Ricton’ cum omnibus ad 
illas pertinentibus, habendas et tenendas in feudi firmam de nobis et 
heredibus nostris pro centum libris sterlingorum numero solvendis 
per annum ad scaccarium nostrum, videlicet ad festum sancti Michaelis 
L. libris et ad Pascha L. libris pro omni servicio. Quare volumus et 
firmiter precipimus quod predictus Willelmus et heredes sui post eum 
habeant et teneant predictas villas bene et in pace libere et quiete 
integre plenarie et honorifice in omnibus rebus et locis cum omnibus 
libertatibus et liberis consuetudinibus ad eas pertinentibus. 


[witness and dating clauses]. 


In 1184 Bardsey, Collingham and Rigton had been granted by Henry 
IL to Adam de Brus; and on 7 Feb. 1200-1 John restored Danby to Peter 
de Brus, who relinquished the three vills.2, Compton lies close to Collingham. 
In the accounts for the half-year after William de Stuteville’s death 17/2. 
12s. 54d. was entered for its farm, and 18. 16s. ld. for corn sold.4 On 
3 May 1205 the king granted his manor of Collingham and Bardsey (then 
in his own hand) to Kirkstall abbey at a fee-farm rent of 90J1.* 


41. Notification by king John that William de Stuteville had made a 
fine of 3,000 marks of silver for the confirmation of his charters, 
quittance of amercements and scutages up to 30 March 1200, 
full right in the manor of [?] ‘Waltiermaisnil’, and having right 
in all the lands which he claimed against William de Mowbray 
and the tenants of his fee in Coxwold and other specified places. 


At Guildford. 24 April 1200. 
Pd. in Rot. Chartarum, p. 61b. 


1 The copy entered in Kirkstall Coucher, no. 312 (without date or 
witnesses) has the spelling Estuteuill. 

t- EY .C., ii p.- 135 and for ‘the.date of john s'tharter dor. ‘Chayrt., 
p. 86b. 


3 Pipe Roll 5 John, p. 222, | * Rot. Chart., p. 149a.° 


CHARTERS OF ' THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 115 


Johannes Dei gratia etc. omnibus ad quos presens scriptum 
pervenerit salutem. Sciatis quod Willelmus de Stutevill’ finem fecit 
nobiscum per tria milia marc[arum] argenti pro cartis suis rationabiliter 
confirmandis et ut quietus sit de omnibus admerciamentis et de omnibus 
scutagiis que ab eo exigebantur usque ad diem Jovis proximam post 
mediam Quadragesime quando primo venimus Ebor[acum] postquam 
fuimus in regem coronati scilicet regni nostri anno primo; et pro 
habendo manerio de Watermorhvill’! cum omnibus pertinentiis suis si 
sit in manu nostra et si non sit in manu nostra et sit in potestate nostra 
plenum rectum inde ei teneri faciemus; et pro habendo recto de 
omnibus terris quas exig[it] versus Willelmum de Mobray et tenentes 
de feudo suo, scilicet de Kirkewald’ et de Kirkewaldesir’ cum perti- 
nentiis et Malesart cum pertinentiis suis et de insula que vocatur 
Haxingholm’ cum pertinentiis et Houegam? cum pertinentiis et de 
Hamton’ in Arden’ cum pertinentiis et de Tresk’ cum pertinentiis 
et de Meauton’ cum pertinentiis et de Welleburn’ cum pertinentiis et 
Burton in Lonesdal’ cum pertinentiis et de Bondebi et Saxebi et Lind- 
berge cum earum pertinentiis et de }. carrucata terre in Stalingburn’ 
cum pertinentiis et Laadeford’ cum pertinentiis et de Kirkebi Mona- 
chorum cum pertinentiis et Kreic cum pertinentiis. Et de predicta 
pecunia reddet nobis predictus Willelmus mille m[arcarum] infra xv. 
dies post Pascha proximum post primam coronationem nostram et ad 
sequens scaccarium de festo sancti Michaelis quingentas marcas ad 
sequens scaccarium Pasche D. marcas et ita de scaccario ad scaccarium 
D. marcas quousque totum debitum persolvatur. T[estibus], W 
Maresc[allo] comite de Penbroc et G. filio Petri, etc. apud Geldeford’ 
xxiilj. die Aprilis. 

Another text of this notification in the same terms is on Carte Antiquz 
roll 4, where the date given is 22 April.4 There are several variations in 
spelling, e.g. Cukewald and Landeford ; the first place is given as Walter- 
meisnill’, which has not been identified ; and Houingham so appears ; the 
style of earl of Essex is added to the second witness. 


William de Stutevill rendered account of the 3000 marks for these 
purposes at Michaelmas 1199, when he paid 800 marks ; and at Michaelmas 
1201 and 1202 the balance owing was 1400 marks.+ In 1200 William de 
Mowbray gave 2000 marks for having judgement in his case against Stute- 
ville, which was owing at Michaelmas 1201.5 


1 Sic ; but it occurs as the vill of Waltiermaisnil in Pipe Roll 1 John, 
p. 56, and this form, having regard to that in the Cart. Ant. text, is more 
likely to be correct. 

2 Honegam as pd. The place is Hovingham. 

3 Cartae Antiquae, Pipe Roll Soc. N.S. vol. xvii, no. 102. 

* Pipe Roll 1 John, p. 56 3.3 John, p.-150; 4 John, p. 53. 

> _ Wot. de Obi, ps 102% Pipe Roll Bslehes p. 157. Mowbray was owing 
1740 marks on this account in 1208 (2bid. 11 John, p. 130); in the following 
year several of his tenants owed sums for the purpose of his acquittance 
(tbid., introduction, pp. xxiv-xxv); and there is a record of the abbots of 
Fountains, Rievaulx and Byland rendering an account of 100/ for having 
the judgement of the king’s court as to whether they ought to make an 
aid to Mowbray (zb7d., p. 139). Evidently the settlement was an expensive 
matter for all concerned. 


116 STUTEVILLE FEE 


The Mowbray lands here mentioned are included in no. 43 (where they 
are given in modern form in the heading), except the following : Bonby, 
Saxby, Great Limber and Stallingborough, all co. Lincoln. The origin of 
any Mowbray interest, which was not a tenure in chief, in these places is 
obscure. In 1115-18 Robert, the bishop’s nvepos, held 3 car. in Great Limber, 
7 car. in Bonby and one car. in Stallingborough.! A comparison with the 
Domesday holdings shows that Hugh son of Baldric had held lands there, 
his tenure in Stallingborough also being one carucate.* This suggests that 
Robert de Stuteville [ may have succeeded Hugh in those places, as he 
had succeeded him in a large proportion of Hugh’s holdings in Yorkshire ; 
and that any claim made by William de Stuteville was based on that fact. 


42. Terms of the agreement made in the king’s presence between 
William de Stuteville and William de Mowbray, by which the 
latter gave to the former 9 knights’ fees and 12 librates of rents, 
as an increase to the gift formerly made by Roger de Mowbray 
to Robert de Stuteville [III] of Kirkby Moorside as a fee of 
10 knights; for which gift William de Stuteville had renounced 
his claim to William de Mowbray’s barony. 

At Louth, 21 Jan. 1200-1. 


Pd. in Chronica Rogevt de Houeden, Rolls Series, iv, 117-8. 


Eodem anno [Mcc] Willelmus de Stutevilla dedit Johanni regi 
Anglie tria millia marcarum argenti pro judicio habendo de baronia 
Willelmi de Mubrai, quam idem Willelmus de Stutevilla calumniatus 
est in curia regis adversus prefatum Willelmum de Mubrai. Est 
autem sciendum quod Robertus Grundebeof, proavus hujus Willelmi 
de Stutevilla, habuit baroniam illam de adquisitione Angliz, sed ille 
Robertus Grundebeof, relicto Henrico rege Anglix, filio Willelmi 
Bastardi regis, qui Angliam bello sibi subjugavit, adhesit Roberto 
Curtehose, duci Normannorum, calumnianti regnum Anglize de jure 
paterno contra predictum Henricum regem Anglie, fratrem suum 
juniorem; et in prelio quod fuit inter illos duos fratres, videlicet 
Henricum regem Angliz et Robertum Curtehose fratrem suum, ducem 
Normanniz, apud Tenerchebrai, Henricus rex Anglie exstitit victor, 
et cepit Robertum Curtehose fratrem suum, et tenuit in carcere usque 
ad consummationem vite suze: similiter Robertum Grundebeof; et 
baroniam suam dedit Henricus rex Nigello de Aubenni, proavo istius 
Willelmi de Mubrai. Preeterea sciendum est, quod Robertus de Stute- 
ville, pater preedicti Willelmi de Stuteville, tempore regis Henrici 
secundi, calumniatus erat prefatam baroniam adversus Rogerum de 
Mubrai, patrem prefati Willelmi de Mubrai; et convenit inter eos sic, 
quod Rogerus de Mubrai dedit Roberto de Stutevilla Kyrkebi in 
Moreshefd, cum pertinentiis suis pro feodo decem militum, pro 
homagio suo, et pro quieta clamantia calumnie sue. Sed quia hec in 
curia regis et ejus munimine non fuerant confirmata, predictus 

1 Lindsey Survey, Lincoln Rec. Soc., p. 250; and cf. the holding of the 

Le Hommet fee in 1212 (Bk. of Fees, p. 157). For a discussion of the identity 
of Robert, from whom the Le Hommet family descended, see Reg. Anti- 


quissimum, Lincoln Rec. Soc., vi, 182 et seg. 
2 Lincs. Domesday, Lincoln Rec. Soc., pp. 115-6. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 117 


Willelmus de Stutevilla iterum suscitavit litem de baronia illa in 
curia Johannis regis Anglie. Cumque super hoc diu certatum esset, 
tandem consilio regni, et voluntate regis, pax et finalis concordia facta 
est inter predictos Willelmum de Stutevilla et Willelmum de Mubrai 
in hunc modum: quod Willelmus de Stutevilla renunciavit calumnize 
suze quam habuit adversus Willelmum de Mubrai super baronia sua, et 
Willelmus de Mubrai dedit Willelmo de Stutevilla pro homagio suo, 
et pro renunciatione juris sui, in augmentum, feoda novem militum, 
et duodecim libratus! reddituum. Et sic remissis omnibus querelis 
hinc et inde, facti sunt amici coram Johanne rege Angliz, secundo 
anno regni sui, apud Lue in Lindissia, villam Lincolniensis episcopi, 
prima Dominica Septuagesime. 

This account shows that the claims originally made by Robert de 
Stuteville III against Roger de Mowbray, which had started in the reign 
of Stephen (p. 5 above), had been settled temporarily after Henry IIL 
had succeeded ; and that the compromise had included Kirkby Moorside in 
the feoffment of 10 knights’ fees then made by Roger. That feoffment 
was therefore made between 1154 and 1166, when in Roger’s carta it was 
stated that 8 knights’ fees of the old feoffment and one of the new (totalling 
9, and not 10 as given in this account) were held of him by Robert de 
Stuteville.4 Kirkby Moorside descended to Joan de Stuteville, wife of 
Hugh Wake, and at her death the manor was held of the honour of Mowbray 
by the service of 10 knights. For the additional gift of 9 knights’ fees and 
12 librates of land see no. 44. 


43. Record of the agreement between William de Stuteville and 

William de Mowbray, by which the latter gave to the former 

12 librates of land and the service of 9 enfeoffed knights, together 

with the service of 10 knights’ fees which the former had pre- 

viously held of the latter’s tenure in chief; for which gift William 
de Stuteville quitclaimed all right against William de Mowbray 
in respect of his entire barony, and against Roland de Galloway 
and his wife, and in particular against William de Mowbray in 
respect of the latter’s lands in Axholme, co. Lincoln; Crick, 
co. Northampton; Langford, co. Nottingham; Thirsk, Kirkby 

Malzeard, Coxwold, Coxwoldshire, Hovingham, Welburn, and 

Burton, co. York; Monks Kirby, and Hampton-in-Arden, co. 

Warwick; Melton Mowbray, co. Leicester, and “Laxinton’, [?] 

co. Leicester; and against Roland de Galloway and his wife in 

respect of Burton-in-Lonsdale, co. York. 2 April 1201 

Pd. in Curia Regis Folls, 1, 380, from Curia Regis Roll 21, m. 8, 
Hilary and Easter terms, 2 John. 

Dies datus est Willelmo de [S]tutevill’ petenti et Willelmo de 
Mubray tenenti de recipiendo cirographo suo in crastino clausi Pasche 
coram rege si fuerit in Anglia et, si non, apud Westmonasterium. Et 
Willelmus de Stutevill’ ponit loco suo Willelmum de Perci vel Johannem 
de Miause inde: et Willelmus de Mubray ponit loco suo Robertum 

1 libvatas in another text. 


2 For an examination of their location see Chapter ILL. 
3 Red Bk. Exch., pp. 419-20. 4 Cal. ing. p.m., i, no, 195. 


118 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Camerarium vel Willelmum de Ardern’. Et est concordatum taliter 
quod Willelmus de Mubray dedit et concessit Willelmo de Stutevill’ 
xij. libratas terre cum pertinenclis tenendas in dominico, et in servicio 
servicium ix. militum feoffatorum, et preterea per consensum domini 
regis servicium feudi x. militum quos idem Willelmus de Stutevill’ 
prius tenuit de feudo eyusdem Willelmi de Mubray, ita quod Willelmus 
de Stutevill’ teneat feudum illud x. militum de Willelmo de Mubray 
et Willelmus de Mubray de domino rege in capite; et Willelmus de 
Stutevill’ remisit et quietum clamavit de se et heredibus suis eidem 
Willelmo de Mubray et heredibus suis totum jus et clamium quod 
ipse habuit versus ipsum Willelmum et homines suos de tota baronia 
ipsius Willelmi de Mubray, et totum jus et clamium quod habuit versus 
Rollandum de Galwey et uxorem suam de terra quam versus eos clam- 
avit, versus Willelmum de Mubray totum jus et clamium quod ipse 
habuit in terra quam Willelmus de Mubray tenet in Haxingholm’ in 
Linc’ et in Kreic cum pertinenciis in Norhant’ et in Landeford’ cum 
pertinenciis in Notingh’ et in Tresk et in Malesart et in Cukewald’ et 
in Cukewaldsir’ et in Hovingham et in Wellebroun’ et in Burton’ et 
in eorum pertinencils in Ebor’ et in Kirkebi et in Miauton’ et Laxinton’ 
cum pertinenciis in Warr’ et in Leic’ et in Hamton’ in Ardern’ in Warr’, 
et totum jus et clamium quod habuit versus Rollandum et uxorem 
suam de Burton’ in Lanesdal’ in Ebor’ cum pertinenciis. 


There is a reference to the case in the previous year when Wilham 
de Stuteville had put in his place William de Perci or Nigel de Plumton’.or 
Jordan de Rifford’; the places named correspond (Welleburn’ being so 
spelt), except that Laxinton’ is not included ; Rolland son of Uctred is 
so described. 

There is clear evidence that Robert de Stuteville 1 had possessed an 
interest in Coxwold and Hovingham (note to no. 1), and it can be assumed 
in Thirsk also. These places were held by Hugh son of Baldric at the Survey. 
The descendants. of Kobert de Stuteville 1 mever recovered Tis iverest 
therein, but on the other hand Robert de Stuteville ILI acquired an interest 
in Welburn (no. 10), when he was enfeoffed of Kirkby Moorside ; and it 
may have been included in the list of quitclaims to preserve the interest 
of Rievaulx abbey there.? 

There is no precise evidence that any interest in Axholme, Crick, 
Langford, Monks Kirby, Hampton-in-Arden or Melton Mowbray, held by 
Geoffrey de Wirce at the Survey, or in Kirkby Malzeard, then held by 
Gospatric, or in Burton-in-Lonsdale, where 4 carucates had then been terra 
vegis, had been held by Robert de Stuteville I. It is, however, possible that 
in view of these quitclaims the Stutevilles had some basis for claiming an 
inherited interest, and that the gifts of these places to Nigel d’Aubigny, 
who acquired a large proportion of the holdings of Geoffrey de Wirce, and 
from whom they descended to the Mowbrays,* were not made until after 


1 Rot.Cur. Regis, i, 231. 

2 For its gift to Rievaulx by Roger de Mowbray see no. 151. 

3-In a charter dated 1077 Geoffrey de Wirce included Crick, Melton 
[Mowbray], Hampton [-in-Arden] and Axholme in his gift of tithe to the 
abbey of St. Nicholas at Angers, of which the priory of Monks Kirby was 
founded as a cell ; his gifts were confirmed to the priory by Nigel d’Aubigny 
and Roger de Mowbray, the latter confirming the churches of [Monks] 


CHARTERS OF .THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 119 


the forfeiture of Robert de Stuteville in 1106. It is perhaps significant that 
among the benefactions to Lewes priory, confirmed by king Stephen, 
were the church of Melton [Mowbray] and the tithes of Axholme and 
Hampton-in-Arden of the gift of Geoffrey de Stuteville.t Again, some basis 
for an inherited interest by William de Stuteville in Burton-in-Lonsdale is 
suggested by his claim against Roland de Galloway and his wife. That lady 
was Elena or Hilaria, daughter of Richard and sister and heir of William 
de Moreville ; and her husband Roland lord of Galloway held the Moreville 
inheritance in her right. In 1166 Richard de Moreville had held 5 knights’ 
fees of Roger de Mowbray.? 

It is curious to find Langford mentioned in the list of quitclaims in 
view of the Stuteville interest there as shown by no. 17 above. 


44, Record of the assignment by William de Mowbray to William 
de Stuteville of 12 librates of land in Brinklow, co. Warwick, 
and the service of Eustace de Vescy for 44 knights’ fees and of 
Richard de Wappenbury for 44 knights’ fees. 1201. 


Pd. in Curia Regis Rolls, i, 440, from Curia Regis Roll 21, m. 15d, 
Easter term, 2; John. 


Dies datus est Willelmo de Stutevill’ et Willelmo de Mubray a 
die sancti Johannis in xv. dies ad capiendum cirographum suum. Et 
sciendum quod Willelmus de Stutevill’ debet habere quicquid Willelmus 
de Mubray habuit in Brinkelawe cum pertinenciis omnibus pro xij. 
libratis terre, excepto servicio Samsonis de Cornubia, qui tenet per 
miliciam ut dicitur, quod remanet ipsi Willelmo de Mubray; et 
Willelmus de Mubray assingnavit eidem Willelmo de Stutevill’ in 


assingnare. 


Brinklow was held by Mowbray as an under-tenancy of the honour of 
Leicester.t The manor was held by a tenant of Baldwin Wake in 1282 ata 
rent of a sparrowhawk or 2s. yearly ;° his interest having descended to him 
as the eventual heir of William de Stuteville.® 

The details of Roger de Mowbray’s carta of 1166 show that Thomas 
de Woppenb[er]i held of him 5 knights’ fees of the old feoffment, and 


Kirby and Langford (Mon. Ang., vi, 996). Nigel d’Aubigny’s tenure in 
Axholme is shown in the Lindsey survey, 1115-18. The castles of Malessart 
[Kirkby Malzeard], Thirsk and Burton-in-Lonsdale are mentioned in the 
farm of Roger de Mowbray’s lands in 1130 (Pipe Roll 31 Hen. I, pp. 137-8). 

1 Cal. Docs. France, no. 1391. Geoffrey also gave the isle of Wroot in 
Axholme to St. Marys, York (£.Y-C., %-p.-276).” He can “probably be 
identified as the Geoffrey de Stoteuilla whose name is given as a witness to 
a charter of William IL to the church of Lincoln, for although the charter is 
not authentic it may preserve a record of genuine witnesses (Reg. Antiquis- 
stmum, Lincoln Rec. Soc., 1, 8-11). His place in the pedigree has not been 
determined ; but he was possibly a brother of Robert de Stuteville I (see 
p. Z-above):. 

2 Scots Peevage, iv, 138-9. 2 Wed Br. EXC. 419: 

* Dugdale, Warwickshire, 1, 218; and see Roger de Mowbray’s charter 
to Combe abbey (Mon. Ang., v, 584). 

Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439. 

6 For the tenure of the manor by Eustace de Stuteville, William’s 
brother, and its reversion to Nicholas II see p. 19 above. 


120 STUTEVILLE FEE 


William de Vescy 2 knights’ fees of the new.! In 1224-30 William de Vescy II 
held of Mowbray 7 knights’ fees in Brompton [wap. Pickering Lythe] and 
elsewhere in co. York; and Thomas de Wappenbyr’ 2} knights’ fees in 
cos. Warwick and Leicester.2— At his death Baldwin Wake held 44 knights’ 
fees in cos. Northampton, Leicester, Warwick and Buckingham, which were 
held of him by the heirs of Thomas de Wapenbiri.3 

The location of the 44 knights’ fees held by Eustace de Vescy has not 
yet been identified. There appears to be no evidence of any subsequent 
Stuteville interest in Brompton ;# and at Baldwin Wake’s death the only 
Vescy fees recorded were 2 knights’ fees in Sherburn (E.R.) and Langton ;° 
but these were appurtenant to the manor of Buttercrambe, and did not 
form part of the 44 fees in question. 


45. Confirmation by king John to Robert de Stuteville son and heir 
of William de Stuteville of Knaresborough and Boroughbridge 
with their appurtenances which Robert’s father had of the gift 
of king Henry II, and of the forest of Westmorland which his 
father had of the gift of king John, and of all his father’s tenements 
and all his lands of inheritance acquired by gift or purchase 
both in England and Normandy. At Rouen. 9 July 1203. 


Pd. in Rot. Chartarum, p. 108a. 


Johannes Dei gratia rex etc. Sciatis nos concessisse et presenti 
carta confirmasse Roberto de Stutevill’ filio et heredi Willelmi de 
Stutevill? Cnareburg’ et Pundeburg’ cum socnis et forestis et cum 
omnibus aliis pertinentiis suis que pater ipsius habuit de dono regis 
Henrici patris nostri sicut carta ejusdem regis patris nostri rationabiliter 
testatur et preterea forestam de Westmeriland’ quam pater ejus habuit 
ex dono nostro sicut carta nostra testatur, omnia etiam antiqua tene- 
menta feodi firmas ipsius Willelmi et omnes terras et tenementa sibi 
et heredibus suis ab ipso vel antecessoribus suis in hereditatem 
adquisita sicut idem Willelmus vel antecessores ejus ea rationabiliter 
adquisierunt de dono vel empcione tam in Anglia quam in Normannia. 
Quare volumus et firmiter precipimus quod predictus Robertus et 
heredes sui post eum habeant et teneant omnia predicta bene et in 
pace libere et quiete integre plenarie et honorifice in forestis in boscis 
plano viis semitis moris et mariscis in pratis pascuis et pasturis vivariis 
stagnis aquis et molendinis piscariis et turbariis in homagiis et releviis 
et serviciis et in omnibus aliis rebus et locis et libertatibus et liberis 
- consuetudinibus ad ea pertinentibus sicut predictum est. 


[witness and dating clauses]. 


1 Red Bk. Exch., pp. 419-20. There is a charter of Roger de Mowbray 
to William de Vescy (presumably later than the date of the carta) by which 
he restored to William 14 k.f. to hold by the service of 11 knights (Cai. 
Close Rolls, 1313-18, p. 286). 

2 Bk. of Fees, pp. 1460, 1462. 

3 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439. For the Wappenbury family see Dugdale, 
Warwickshire, i, 294; and for their holding in Newbold Revel of the honour 
of Mowbray, p. 81. 

* V.Cdt.. Yorks. N.k., i, 426; 

> For these places see Chapter IV, §§8, 11. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 121 


46. Confirmation by king John to Robert de Stuteville son and heir 
of William de Stuteville of all the wardships, farms and pledges 
which his father had at his death. At Rouen. 9 July 1203. 

Pd. in Rot. Chartarum, p. 107b. 


Johannes Dei gratia etc. Sciatis nos concessisse et presenti carta 
confirmasse Roberto de Stutevill’ filio et heredi Willelmi de Stutevill’ 
omnes wardas firmas et vadia que pater suus habuit die qua obiit 
quorum termini non sunt finiti tenenda ei et heredibus suis usque ad 
terminos suos. Quare volumus et firmiter precipimus quod predictus 
Robertus et heredes sui habeant et teneant predictas wardas firmas et 
vadia cum omnibus ad ea pertinentibus bene et in pace libere et quiete 
integre plenarie et honorifice in omnibus rebus et locis ad ea pertinen- 
tibus usque ad terminos suos. [zwztness and dating clauses]. 


47. Grant by king John to Hubert archbishop of Canterbury for 
4000 marks of the wardship and marriage of Robert son and 
heir of William de Stuteville, with the custody of all his land in 
England and Normandy. At Rouen. 9 July 1203. 

Pd. in Rot. Chartarum, p. 108a. 


Johannes Dei gratia etc. Sciatis nos concessisse et presenti carta 
confirmasse venerabili patri nostro H. Cant[uariensi] archiepiscopo pro 
quatuor millia marc[arum] custodiam Roberti filii et heredis Willelmi 
de Stutevill’ cum tota terra sua in Anglia et Normannia et cum castris 
tenementis et feodifirmis wardis firmis et vadiis suis quorum termini 
non sunt finiti. Concessimus etiam eidem archiepiscopo maritagium 
ipsius Roberti ita tamen quod ipsum non maritabit nec militem faciet 
nisi per voluntatem nostram et assensum nostrum. Concessimus 
-quoque ei de assensu predicti Roberti omnia predicta tenenda usque 
ad quatuor annos a festo sancti Johannis Baptiste anno regni nostri 
quinto et amplius quicquid de ipso Roberto contingat donec pecuniam 
suam vel rationabilem custum suum inde perceperit. Per hunc itaque 
finem concessimus eidem archiepiscopo omnes carrucas in predictis 
tenementis inventas et debet istam pecuniam solvere a festo sancti 
Johannis Baptiste anno regni nostri quinto infra duos annos scilicet in 
predicto festo sancti Johannis Baptiste mille marcas et infra eundem 
annum mille marcas in sequenti vero anno duo milia marc{arum]. Si 
vero de ipso archiepiscopo interim humaniter contigerit ille vel illi qui- 
bus hanc custodiam assignaverit omnia predicta tenebunt per predictum 
finem eodem modo et exinde omnia predicta ad prefatum Robertum per 
eundem finem integre revertentur vel antea si ipse Robertus prius inde 
gratum archiepiscopi fecerit. Quare volumus et firmiter precipimus 
quod ipse archiepiscopus vel illi quibus eandem custodiam assignaverit 
omnia predicta teneant bene et in pace [efc.] libera et quieta ab 
omnibus demandis debitis et exactionibus que ad nos pertinent preter 
predicta quatuor milia marc{arum] usque ad predictum terminum 
salvo nobis debito servicio et eo salvo quod predictus archiepiscopus 
non maritabit ipsum Robertum nec militem faciet nisi per voluntatem 
nostram et assensum nostrum sicut predictum est. 


[wetness and dating clauses]. 


122 STUTEVILLE FEE 


On 4 June 1203 the king had announced his grant to the archbishop 
of the custody of all the lands and castles which had belonged to William 
de Stuteville at his death and of the wardship of the heir.t. In April 1204 
Peter des Roches had the king’s letters of presentation to the church of 
[North] Cave which the archbishop who had the custody of the land of 
William de Stuteville had granted to the king. The archbishop still had 
the custody for three quarters of the year ending at Michaelmas 1205,° and 
died on 13 July of that year. William de Stuteville’s son Robert was dead 
by 5 Aug. (no. 48). 


48, Notification by king John that Nicholas de Stuteville [I] had 
made a fine of 10,000 marks for having his inheritance of all the 
lands of which his brother William de Stuteville was seised at 
his death, except the castle of Knaresborough and Borough- 
bridge to be retained in the king’s hand until the sum should be 
paid; which sum included 2100 marks owed by William at his 
death. Nicholas was to have the pledges held by William at his 
death, and afterwards by the archbishop of Canterbury at his 
death, for the remainder of their term. 

At Lambeth. <5. Aug. [1205]. 
Pd. in Rot. Chartarum, p. 166a. 


J. Dei gratia etc. Sciatis quod Nicholaus de Stutevill’ ad 
peticionem suam nobiscum finem fecit per x. milia mf[arcarum] pro 
habenda hereditate sua scilicet omnibus terris unde Willelmus de 
Stutevill’ frater ejus fuit saisitus die qua obiit sicut de hereditate sua 
exceptis castello de Ckanareburg’ et Ponte Burgi cum omnibus perti- 
nentiis suis que nos in manu nostra retinebimus donec nobis predicta 
decem milia marc[arum] persolverit et cum debitum predictum nobis 
reddiderit nos ei omnia predicta castell[um] scilicet Knareburg’ et 
Pontem Burgi cum omnibus pertinentiis suis reddemus; et infra 
finem predictum computabuntur duo milia et centum marc{arum] 
quas predictus Willelmus frater ejus nobis debuit die qua obiit; vadia 
autem que idem Willelmus frater ejyus tenuit die qua obiit et que 
archiepiscopus Cant[uariensis] postea tenuit die obitus sui unde finis 
factus non fuit habebit idem Nicholaus usque ad terminos statutos. 

[witness and dating clauses}. 


Further references to the fine demanded and its non-payment have 
been given at pp. 13, 14 above. 
i 
_ 49, Confirmation by Nicholas de Stuteville [I] to Fountains abbey 
of all the land which William de Stuteville, his brother, had 

held in Kirkby Ouseburn. [1205-18] 

Fountains Chartulary, B.M. Add. MS. 37770, f. 87V (old p. 174). 
Abst. in Fountains Chartulary, i, 420. 

Omnibus sancte ecclesie filiis presentibus et futuris Nicholaus 
de Estuteuill’ salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et presenti carta mea 
confirmasse Deo et monachis ecclesie sancte Marie de Fontibus totam 

i Rot. Pat. p. 30a. * Loud.,.p. 40D. 


3 Pipe Roll 7 John, p. 40. At Mich. 1204 he owed 3000 marks out of 
the 4000 (zbid. 6 John, p. 191). : 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 123 


terram cum pertinenciis quam Willelmus de Estuteuill’ frater meus 
tenuit in Kirkebyuseburn’; tenendam de me et heredibus meis in 
puram et perpetuam elemosinam solutam liberam et quietam ab 
omni servicio et ab omni re ad terram pertinente, sicut carta prefati 
Willelmi de Estuteuill’ fratris mei quam inde habent testatur. His 
testibus, Willelmo de Perci, Ricardo Malebiss, Waltero de Bouingt[ona], 
Gaufrido Fossard, Ricardo de Brertona, Nicholao de Cait[ona], Roberto 
de Mulwaith, Matheo forest[ario], Johanne ostiar[io], Roberto le 
Oissellur, Normanno de Aiuill’. 


For William de Stuteville’s charter see no. 33. As Nicholas never paid 
the large fine exacted by the king, the interest of the family in Kirkby 
Ouseburn, soke of Knaresborough, was not maintained. This charter was, 
therefore, probably executed quite early in the period assigned. The grantor 
died before 30 March 1218, and perhaps before 29 June 1217 (p. 15 above). 


50. Quitclaim by Nicholas de Stuteville [I] to Kirkstall abbey of 
all his right in Collingham and Bardsey. [c. 1205] 


Pd. in Kirkstall Coucher Book, no. 316. 


Omnibus hanc cartam visuris vel audituris Nicholaus de Estute- 
villa salutem. Sciatis quod ego pro amore Dei et salute anime mee 
concessi et hac mea carta quietum clamavi de me et de omnibus here- 
dibus meis in perpetuum Deo et sancte Marie et monachis de Kirk[estal] 
totum jus et totum clamum quod ego habui vel habere potui in 
Colingham et in Berdeseye et in earum pertinenciis, ita quod ego et 
heredes mei nunquam clamum vel calumpniam movebimus versus 
predictos monachos de predictis tenementis. Et hanc quietam claman- 
tiam per hanc cartam nostram eis confirmavimus. ‘Testes. 


The interest in these places acquired by William de Stuteville is shown 
in no. 40. Although it is clear that this interest was not confirmed to his 
brother Nicholas, the monks may have requested the issue of a quitclaim 
to guard against any contingent rights. Collingham and Bardsey were 
granted to Kirkstall by king John on 3 May 1205 (note to no. 40), and this 
quitclaim was probably issued by Nicholas soon after he succeeded his 
nephew Robert in that year. 


51. Gift by Nicholas de Stuteville [I] to Keldholme priory of 4 
marks yearly in the mill of Gillamoor [par. Kirkby Moorside] 
until he or his heirs should bestow a rent of 100s. in an ecclesi- 
astical benefice in Yorkshire. [1205-18] 

MS. Dodsworth vu, f. 217, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 

Tower, York. Pd.in Mon. Ang.,; v, 665, from the same. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis tam presentibus quam 
futuris Nicholaus de Stuteuilla salutem. Noverit universitas vestra me 
dedisse et concessisse et presenti carta confirmasse Deo et ecclesie 
sancte Marie de Keldholm’ et monialibus ibidem Deo servientibus in 
puram et perpetuam elemosinam quatuor marcas annuas in molendino 
de Gillingmor percipiendas ad duos terminos, scilicet duas marcas ad 
Pentecosten et duas marcas ad festum sancti Martini, de meipso si 
molendinum sit in manu mea vel de quocunque predictum molendinum 


124 STUTEVILLE FEE 


habuerit, pro salute anime mee et uxoris mee et omnium antecessorum 
meorum quousque ego vel heredes mei perfecerimus eisdem monialibus 
redditum centum solidorum in ecclesiastico beneficio in Eboracensisira, 
quod cum perfecero eisdem redditum centum solidorum quietus ero a 
solucione predictarum quatuor marcarum de predicto molendino. Et 
ut hec donacio mea firmitatem optineat in perpetuum presens scriptum 
sigillo meo confirmavi. His testibus, Willelmo Briton[e], Waltero de 
Sauerby, Waltero de Mulcastre, Roberto de Karwindelaue, Thoma le 
Cheu, Martino serviente de Kirkeby, et multis aliis. 


The identity of the grantor is proved by the next charter. His con- 
nexion with Cumberland is shown by the third and fourth witnesses, the 
former’s family holding a tenancy of the honour of Liddel, and the latter 
taking his name from Carwindlaw, a member of the honour.!' For Keld- 
holme priory see the note to no. 12. 


52. Notification by Thomas T..... , Walter de Saurebi, William 
Brito and Geoffrey de Etton that they were present when Nicholas 
de Stuteville [I] and Robert and Nicholas his sons bound them- 
selves to give to Keldholme priory a rent of 100s. in an ecclesias- 


tical benefice in Yorkshire. [1205-18] 

MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 217, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Thomas T...... oer 


Walterus de Saurebi et Willelmus Brito et Gaufridus de Ettona salutem. 
Noverit universitas vestra nos interfuisse ubi Nicholaus de Estuteuill’ 
et Robertus de Estutteuill’ et Nicholaus [de] Estuteuill’ filii ejus 
obligaverunt se daturos et assignaturos Deo et beate Marie et sancti- 
monialibus de Keldholm in certo competenti loco centum solidos 
redditus ecclesiastici beneficii in Eboracensiscira secundum tenorem 
cartarum quas predicte sanctimoniales inde habent. In hujus rei 
testimonium scripto huic sigilla nostra apposuimus. 


The period assigned is given with the proviso that the notification may 
have been issued at an appreciably later date than no. 51. 


53. Confirmation by Nicholas de Stuteville [I] of the gift made by 
Robert de Hessle to the church of Lincoln of 2 bovates of land 
in [South] Ferriby [co. Lincoln], and a toft and 13 acres of 
demesne meadow. [1205-18] 

Pd. in Registvrum Antiquissimum, Lincoln Rec. Soc., iv, p. 136, from 
the Registrum (Dean and Chapter). 

Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Nicholas de Stuteuill concessi 
et hac mea carta confirmavi donacionem quam Robertus de Hesel’ 
fecit Deo et sancte Marie Linc’ de duabus bovatis terre cum pertinenciis 
in Feribia quas Stephanus filius Gilberti tenuit et de uno tofto quod 
Willelmus Suterit tenuit et de tresdecim acris prati de dominico prato 
ejusdem Roberti; tenend’ et habend’ bene et in pace secundum quod 
carta predicti Roberti quam inde habent testatur. His testibus, 


1 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439. 
2 Obliterated. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 125 


Eustachio de Stuteuill, Radulfo de La Fierce, Ada persona de Coting- 
ham, Radulfo de Anet’, Willelmo Berad, Johanne de Hameswait, 
Laurencio clerico, Willelmo filio Fulconis. 
The gift of which this was a confirmation was made between 1205 and 
1214 by Robert son of John de Hesele in Feriby juxta Humbre, specifying 
the toft and 2 bovates and 12 acres of demesne meadow next the bounds 
of Barton, pasture for 120 sheep, and two villeims ; witnessed by Philip the 
sub-dean [of Lincoln] and others, being a different set of witnesses from 
the confirmation. 
Some notes on Robert de Hessle and his family are given in Chapter IV, 
$817. He was dead by 1218-19. 


54. Gift by Philip de Valognes to Robert de Stuteville [son of 
Nicholas I] and Sibyl, the donor’s daughter, and his heirs by 
her, of the vill of Torpenhow [Cumberland], with all appurten- 
ances including the church and mill. [1192-1205] 

MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 216, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. Pd. in Yorks. Arch. Journal, xi, 182n. 

Universis sancte matris ecclesie filiis Philippus de Valoniis 
salutem. Sciant presentes et futuri me dedisse et concessisse et carta 
mea confirmasse Roberto de Stuteuill’ et Sibille filie mee et heredibus 
quos predictus Robertus de Stuteuill’ habebit de predicta Sibilla 
sponsa sua villam de Torpenhou in maritagium per rectas divisas suas 
et cum omnibus justis pertinentiis suis et in ecclesia et in molendino 
et in omnibus aliis justis pertinentiis suis illis et predictis heredibus 
quos habebit de predicta Sibilla sponsa sua; tenendam de me et here- 
dibus meis ita libere quiete plenarie integre et honorifice sicut pre- 
dictam terram melius plenius et quietius tenui die qua predictam 
Sibillam filiam meam duxit in uxorem. Hiis testibus, Radulfo abbate 
de Jegdewrth, Roberto archidiacono Glascuense, Willelmo Giffart, 
Roberto de Landeles, Roberto de Sancto Michaele, Bernardo de 
Hawedane, Johanne de Wiltune, Simone de Hawic, Alano de Ruele, 
Hugone de Ruwerfort, Gilleberto de Maltalent, Radulfo de Alneto, 

Anketino filio Durandi, Radulfo Delaferte, Willelmo de Solum. 


The grantor was chamberlain of Scotland, and died in 1215.2 

It has been noted above (p. 16) that Robert de Stuteville was holding 
the vill of Torpenhow by cornage in 1212. After the death of his son Eustace 
without issue, the interest passed to Joan mother of Baldwin Wake; and 
at the latter’s death the manor of Torpenhow, excepting two sixth parts, 
was included among the knights’ fees and serjeanties belonging to his 
manor of Liddel.? For the gift of the church to Rosedale priory see the note 
to no. 55. 

Ralph abbot of Jedburgh held office from 1192 to his death on 7 Aug. 
1205.4 As Eustace, the grantees’ son, was still under age in 1220, the date 
of the charter was probably not very early within these limits. 


1 The preceding charter in Reg. Ant. 

2 Complete Peerage, new ed., v, 134. For his place in the Valognes 
pedigree see H.K.F., iii, 393 and Bracton’s Note Book, no. 1128. 

3 Cal. Ing. p.m., i, no. 439. 

+ Chron. of Melrose, facsimile ed., pp. 48, 52. 


126 STUTEVILLE FEE 


55. Confirmation by king John to Rosedale priory of the gift made 
by Robert de Stuteville [son of Nicholas I] of the vale of 
Rosedale, the meadow of Bagthwaite, and all the bark of his 
wood as far as Cropton [par. Middleton]. 

At York. 16 Aug. 1209. 


Pd. in Mon. Ang., iv, 317, from Charter Roll 2 Edw. Ili, m. 25+. 


Johannes Dei gratia rex Anglie dominus Hibernie dux Normannie 
et Aquitanie comes Andegavie archiepiscopis episcopis abbatibus 
comitibus baronibus justiciariis vicecomitibus prepositis et omnibus 
ballivis et fidelibus suis salutem. Sciatis nos concessisse et hac carta 
nostra confirmasse Deo et beate Marie et sancto Laurencio de Rossedale 
et monialibus ibidem Deo servientibus rationabilem donationem quam 
Robertus de Stutevill eis fecit in liberam puram et perpetuam elemosi- 
nam de valle de Rossedale cum omnibus pertinentiis suis per divisas 
in carta ipsius Roberti nominatas et de toto prato de Bagghthuait sicut 
carta ejusdem Roberti quam predicte moniales inde habent rationa- 
biliter testatur et similiter de toto tanno de bosco ipsius Roberti usque 
ad Cropton? scisso per visum forestariorum nostrorum. Quare volumus 
et firmiter precipimus quod predicte moniales habeant et teneant 
predicta tenementa cum omnibus pertinentiis suis bene et in pace 
libere et quiete integre et plenarie in omnibus locis et rebus cum 
omnibus libertatibus et liberis consuetudinibus ad ea pertinentibus 
sicut predictum est. T[estibus], Petro de Bruys, Rogero de Monte 
Begonis, Matheo filio Herberti, Willielmo de Cantilupo, Simone de 
Pateshill, Jacobo de Poterna, Galfrido Luterel. Datum*® per manum 
Hugonis de Wellfes] apud Eboracum xvj. die Augusti anno regni 
nostri xj. 

The inspeximus and confirmation of 26 Feb. 1327-8 records notices of 
twenty-four other charters to the priory. They include the gift by Robert 
de Stuteville of the vale of Rossedale from the bounds of Peter de Bruys 
in length towards the south as far as Anchon [vecte Anchou] and in breadth 
from the highroad lying by ‘Anchon’ as far as Synene [vecte Syuene], and 
the meadow of Baggethwait and all the bark of all his wood as far as Cropton; 
a gift and confirmation by Eustace de Stuteville of all the place of Baggeth- 
wait except his forge, and all the meadow of Baggthwait from Smalesikes 
to ‘Synene’ and from Smalesikes to the nuns’ land towards the north, with 
common of pasture with him and his men from Bagethwait to Amoth ; 
another by the same cancelling the exception of his forge ; a confirmation 
by Nicholas de Stuteville [I] of the vale of Rossedale, etc. in accordance 
with the charter of Robert his son ; a confirmation by John son and heir 
of Sir Baldwin Wake ; and in full detail one by Thomas Wake, lord of Lidel, 
son and heir of John Wake ; also the gift of Sibyl de Valoniis in her widow- 
hood of the church of Torpenhow and the confirmation thereof by Eustace 
son of Robert de Stuteville. | 

Of the places mentioned Rosedale is in par. Middleton, wap. Pickering 
Lythe ; and the river Seven flows south down the vale. Anchou is represented 
by Hancow House in Hartoft, about a mile east of Rosedale Abbey ; and 


1 Charter Rolls for 11-13 John are missing in Rot. Chart. 
* Crepton as pd, > Sic; but query dat[a}. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 27 


Cropton is 5 miles to the south. Aymot (Amoth) and Bagthwaite appear 
to be lost.1. The block of property became known as the honour of Rosedale, 
and its early history is closely associated with the honour of Liddel; see 
Chapter IV §19, where the date of foundation of the priory is examined. 


56. Gift by Eustace de Stuteville to Rosedale priory of all his land 
of Middleton [wap. Pickering Lythe] with appurtenances, 
except the advowson of the church and the freeholders. 

[1220-41] 
MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 144Y, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 

Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Eustacius de Stutteuill dedi 
concessi et hac presenti carta mea confirmavi Deo et beato Laurentio 
de Rossedale et monialibus ibidem Deo servientibus cum corpore meo 
totam terram meam de Midelton tam in dominico quam in servitio 
cum omnibus pertinentiis exceptis advocacione ecclesie et libere 
tenentibus; tenendam et habendam dictis monialibus in liberam 
puram et perpetuam elemosinam adeo liberam sicut aliqua elemosina 
liberius dari vel teneri possit. Et ego et heredes mei predictam terram 
cum omnibus pertinentiis aisiamentis libertatibus et liberis consuetu- 
dinibus infra villam et extra dictis monialibus warantizabimus et 
contra omnes gentes in perpetuum defendemus. In hujus rei testi- 
monium presentem cartam sigilli mei aposicione roboravi. Huis testibus, 
Waltero de Mulek, Roberto de Stuteuill, Nicholao de Stuteuill, 
Willelmo de Pert, Roberto de Trumpinton, Johanne de Scheldeford, 
Alano de Wassant, Johanne de Swine, Adam Takel, Nicholao Takel, 

Willelmo Boniface, Willelmo de Jonebi, et multis aliis. 


The grantor, son and heir of Robert de Stuteville V, was still under age 
in 1220 and died in 1241 (pp. 17, 18 above). The second and third witnesses, 
who also occur in nos. 57 and 59, may be of the branch of the family holding 
land in Great Ayton and Hemlington ; see Chapter I, §5. 


D7. Gift by Eustace de Stuteville to St. Peter’s hospital, York, of 
4 bovates of land in the territory of Cawthorn [par. Middleton], 
which he had exchanged with Hugh Solum for land in Arthuret 


in the vale of Liddel. [1220-41] 
MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 159, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis has literas visuris vel 
audituris Eustacius de Stuteuill’ salutem in Domino. Noveritis me 
dedisse concessisse et hac presenti carta mea confirmasse Deo et 
hospitali sancti Petri Ebor[acensis] et pauperibus ibidem Deo servi- 
entibus in puram et perpetuam elemosinam quatuor bovatas terre in 
territorio de Kauthorn cum thoftis in villa de Kauthorn et unam 
acram terre in eodem territorio, illas scilicet quatuor bovatas cum 
thoftis et acra terre quas dominus Robertus de Carwindelhow quondam 
dedit Hugoni Solum pro homagio et servitio suo in feodo et hereditate, 
quas etiam idem Hugo mecum escambiavit pro quadam terre in valle 


1 Place-Names of N.R., Eng. Place-Name Soc., pp. 78-80, 


128 STUTEVILLE FEE 


de Lidel scilicet in Arthuret; tenendas et habendas cum omnibus 
pertinentiis in boscis in moris in pratis et pascuis et omnibus aisiamentis 
infra villam et extra sine illo retenemento mei vel heredum meorum in 
perpetuum. Et ego predictus Eustachius et heredes mei warantiza- 
bimus adquietabimus et defendemus predictas 111j9 bovatas terre 
cum thoftis et una acra terre et cum omnibus pertinentiis suis sicut 
predictum est Deo et ospitali sancti Petri Ebor[acensis] et pauperibus 
ibidem Deo servientibus contra omnes et feminas in perpetuum. Et 
ad majorem hujus rei securitatem hanc cartam sigilli mei apposicione 
roboravi. Huis testibus, domino Roberto de Stuteuill’, Nicolao de 
Stuteuill’, Alano de Waxand, Arnaldo de Aselacbi, Ricardo Boye de 
Aselacbi, Ricardo filio Wydonis de eadem, Roberto filio Eudonis de 
Midelton, Johanne clerico de Malton, et aliis. 


58. Inspection by Nicholas son of Nicholas de Stuteville of the 
charters of Sir Robert de Stuteville his grandfather and William 
de Stuteville his uncle granting and confirming to Newburgh 
priory the church of Kirkby Moorside. [c. 1217-1233] 

MS. Dodsworth xci, f. 18, from the Newburgh Register. 


Nicholaus de Stutevill filius Nicolai de Stutevill omnibus sancte 
matris ecclesie filiis salutem. Sciatis quod ego inspectis et bene 
intellectis cartas! domini Roberti de Stutevill avi mei et Willelmi de 
Stutevill patrui mei quas canonici de Nouoburgo habent super facta 
sibi ab eisdem concessione et confirmacione ecclesie de Kirkebi 
Moresheued cum pertinentiis suis... . 


The details show the descent of Nicholas de Stuteville II and the 
interest he possessed in the manor of Kirkby Moorside. The charter was 
presumably issued after the death of Nicholas I. 


59. Confirmation by Nicholas de Stuteville [II] of the demise made 
by Nicholas son of Adam de Boltby to Walter archbishop of 

York of his land in Boltby and Ravensthorpe for a term of 7 

years from 8 Sept. 1230; saving his own rights. 

[24 Oct. 1230—1 Oct. 1231] 
a of the Archbishops of York, B.M. Lansdowne MS. 402, 
f. 34V. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis ad quos presens scriptum 
pervenerit Nichol[aus] de Stuteuill’? salutem in Domino. Noveritis 
me concessisse in presenti scripto [et] confirmasse concessionem et 
dimissionem quam Nichol[aus] filius Ade de Bouteby fecit venerabili 
patri domino Waltero Ebor[acensi] archiepiscopo Anglie primati super 
tota terra sua de Boutebi et Rauenestorp cum pertinenciis suis sine 
aliquo retinemento, tenenda et habenda eidem archiepiscopo et here- 
dibus suis vel assignatis suis [et] eorum heredibus libere integre 
pacifice et quiete ab omni servitio et exactione a Nativitate beate 
Virginis anno Domini M°. CC’. tricesimo usque ad terminum septem 
annorum proximo sequentium, videlicet quousque inde plenarie septem 
vestituturas perceperit sicut in scriptis inter eosdem archiepiscopum 


1 Sic, 2 Scuteuill’, MS. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 129 


et Nichol{aum] super hoc confectis plenius continetur salvis michi et 
heredibus meis servitiis consuetudinibus et exactionibus nobis in 
predicta terra pertinentibus salvis etiam michi et heredibus meis post 
lapsum prefati termini omnibus aliis bonis que nobis de predicta terra 
secundum consuetudinem regni poterunt excidere. Et ut hec mea 
concessio et confirmatio robur et stabilitatem habeant presens scriptum 
sigilli mei munimine duxi corroborand[um]. Huis testibus, domino 
Waltero de Mulcastra, domino Roberto de Stuteuill’, Nicholao fratre 
suo, R. Chambar, Alano de Waxant, Nich[olao] persona de Etton’, 
Willelmo capellano de Ponte belli, et multis aliis. 


Notes on the family of Nicholas de Boltby, which held a knight’s fee 
of the Stuteville tenure in chief, mainly in Boltby and Ravensthorpe, will 
be given in Chapter IV, §7, where a reference to this demise will be made. 
The archbishop issued his bond for the payment of the debts of Nicholas’s 
father on 24 Oct. 1230; and the confirmation of Nicholas de Stuteville is 
mentioned in a document issued by the archbishop on 1 Oct. 1231.! 


60. Confirmation by Nicholas de Stuteville [II] to Byland abbey of 
the gift made by Robert son of Adam Fossard of the manor of 
Marderby [par. Felixkirk], and of the agreements made between 
Adam Fossard and Arnold de Upsall and between Adam Fossard 
and Adam de Boltby. [?1224-33] 


MS. Dodsworth cxviti, f. 81Y, apparently from the original. 


Omnibus hanc cartam visuris vel audituris Nicholaus de Stute- 
uilla salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et presenti carta mea confirmasse 
Deo et monachis sancte Marie Bellelande donacionem quam Robertus 
filius Ad{e] Fossard fecit eisdem monachis de manerio de Martherby 
-cum omnibus suis pertinenciis in Felicekirke et alibi. Confirmo etiam 
et approbo antedictis monachis composiciones factas inter Adam 
Fossard et Arnaldum de Uppeshall’ ac inter eundem Adam et Adam 
de Bolteby una cum omnibus ad feodum meum pertinentibus in 
liberam puram et perpetuam elemosinam solutam ab omni terreno 
servitio et exactione seculari vel demanda. Hanc composicionem et 
confirmacionem feci Deo et predictis monachis pro salute anime mee 
et omnium antecessorum et heredum meorum per omnia secundum 
tenorem cartarum et convencionem que dicti monachi inde habent. 
Hiis testibus, domino Henrico de Baton, Helia de Cumbe, tunc 
vicecomite Ebor[acensi], Stephano de Menyll’, Hugone de Uppesall’, 
Willelmo de Percy de Kildall’, Rogero de Stapilton, Ada de Hilton, 
Willelmo de Berton, Willelmo filio Willelmi de Eboraco, Willelmo 
de Salcoke, Willelmo de Foxeholes, et allis. 


Notes on this branch of the Fossard family are given in Chapter IV, 
_§6, where agreements between Adam Fossard and Arnold de Upsall are 
printed (nos. 81-2). Robert son of Adam Fossard died between 1220 and 
Jan. 1226-7. There can be little doubt that this confirmation was issued 
by the chief lord of the fee, either Nicholas de Stuteville I or [I ; and the 
names of the witnesses make the latter reasonably certain. But a difficulty 
arises in view of the names of the first two; for on the one hand Henry 


1 Reg. Gray, pp. 40, 239. 


130 STUTEVILLE FEE 


de Bathonia occurs as sheriff of Yorkshire from 1242! and Elias de Cumbe 
as sheriff or under-sheriff in 1244 ;2 whereas Nicholas de Stuteville II died 
in 1233. The explanation may be that Elias had an unrecorded tenure as 
under-sheriff before the latter date. If the third witness can be identified 
as Stephen de Meinill III, who appears to have come of age between Oct. 
1224 and Feb. 1225-6,3-the earliest date for the charter can be fixed 
accordingly. 


61. Confirmation by Joan de Stuteville, in her widowhood, to 
Watton priory of all its lands and rents in the vill and parish of 
Hessle of her fee, free from all suits of court except only that 
the brewers and bakers of Hessle, being the priory’s tenants, 
should be summoned and come to her court in Hessle twice 
yearly, and otherwise the priory’s tenants should do suit at the 
prior’s court of Watton. [1266-74] 

PLATE II (frontispiece) 
Original charter, B.M. Cotton Ch. xxix. 63. 


Omnibus Christi fidelibus presentibus et futuris Johanna de 
Stuteuile salutem in Domino sempiternam. Nouerit vniuersitas 
vestra me in libera viduitate et ligia mea potestate pro salute mea ante- 
cessorum et successorum meorum concessisse quietumclamasse et 
presenti carta mea confirmasse pro me et heredibus meis Deo et Beate 
Marie et conuentui de Wattona in liberam puram et perpetuam ele- 
mosinam omnes terras . redditus et possessiones cum omnibus perti- 
nenclis suis quas habent in villa et in territorio et in parochia de Hesel 
de feodo meo . ita quod tam ipsi quam tenentes eorum sint quieti de 
omnibus sectis curiarum et omnimodis aliis demandis . inperpetuum . 
excepto tantummodo quod braciatrices et pistores de Hesel de feodo 
meo qui sunt tenentes dicti conuentus ad curiam nostram in Hesel bis 
in anno legaliter summonizentur et venient . scilicet ad proximam 
curiam post Pascha et ad proximam curiam post festum sancti Michaelis 
. et per aliquem hominem ipsius conuentus siue regularem siue secu- 
larem pro ipsis tenentibus curia . prioris de Wattona petetur et sine 
aliqua contradictione uel calumpnia alicuius . eidem petenti sine mora 
dimittetur. In cuius rei testimonium presens scriptum sigilli mei 
impressione roboraui. Huis testibus . dominis Baldewyno Wake et 
Johanne de Melsa militibus domino Johanne de Hesel tunc rectore 
ecclesie de Auuele Walter[o] de Estokes domino Roberto de Buketon’ 
monaco Roberto de Estutevile Petro de Santon Willelmo Daniel . 
Johanne de Santon . et aliis. 


Seal: red, round, c.24 in. when perfect; a lady in a long dress, 
seated side-saddle on a horse with ornamental breastband to the dexter, 
and holding a shield of arms, barry; ...... Evie 

Medieval endorsement: Confirmatio domine Fohanne de Stotewille 


i PRO. List of Sheriffs, p. 161. 

2 #£.Y.C., vu, p. 207°; Elias ‘does not occar m the P.R:O. bist. 

3 Complete Peerage, new ed., viii, 623. He cannot be Stephen de 
Meinill IL who was apparently dead by 1188 (2bid., p. 621) ; but there was 
also a Stephen de Meinill of Thirkleby (ibid., p. 623n). 5 

4 B.M. Cat. of Seals, ii, no. 6719, 


PLATS AV 


"ur $€ ‘9 Aq FL azIg 


r 


& | 2 ) | saws 204 2 : 

-Iefad TDI] 90 FHP orawayy 2 WD gureyer® roads Gye 
bese tet Fy pe ope ND A joes § AK} MOUS 04 
Fete Aor) TRoyry(, aura (s rvtnaty Sea wg sanye) d222 ya 29 Jv 
wis Is 24 f au eng oagey d1, part 29 i jad veut ww densedd a 
= Prd fae stags Eind LMM pyyria} 0 qv saab HUQuajous 22 Amsimeg 
jizpas pry, J1i2d Um ore 2Q s1311h HIULIULOR J12092 22 seid | ji2goas 22 
sr), jade ae 1 TOE) 4 Bia LIT jong ayaadid_ay 21279 
Suiadefonsiao npg PRR 30" 235 awl Ht) Hse OP SYP 
A af hee by pits} #91044 £910 L, 2tjayoa Jt2x74 $949 .22 ABN oda gQuvary] | 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 131 


de terra in Hesel. Also the number xxv twice, and the Cotton numbering 
RNIX i038. 

The first witness makes it impossible for the charter to have been 
issued during the grantor’s first widowhood, 1241-c. 1244; and the period 
is after her second husband’s death in 1266 (p. 22 above). The third 
witness occurs as rector of Kirk Ella in 1257 and 1270, and died as rector 
before 23 Sept. 1274.1 


62. Notification by John de Stuteville to Richard bishop of Chester 
of his gift to Pipewell abbey of 2 virgates of land in [Long] 
Lawford [co. Warwick], and specified demesne there, for the 
souls of his parents and for Robert his lord and brother. 

[1161-82] 
PLATE IV 
Original charter, P.R.O. Anc. Deed BX. E. 327/408. MS. Dodsworth 
Ixili, f. 94V, from the same then in the Court of Augmentations; 
pd. in Madox, Formulare Anglicanum, no. 408, from the same 
original. 2 
Ricardo episcopo Cestrie et omnibus prelatis eclesie et omnibus 
hominibus suis et omnibus christianis Johannes de Stutewill’ salutem. 
Notum sit uobis me dedisse Deo et sancte Marie et abbatie de Pipwelle 
duas uirgatas terre in Lallefor cum omnibus pertinenciis suis in toftis 
et croftis et pratis . et totum dominium meum de eadem uilla in terris 
bordariorum et bouariorum et molendini quietum ab omni seruicio 
sicuti puram elemosinam liberam et perpetuam pro anima mea et 
patris mei et matris et pro Roberto domino meo et fratre et filiis [su]is 
et meis . et pro salute domini regis Henrici et regine et filiorum suorum. 
Hii sunt [tes]tes . Simon sac[erdos] de Warllei . Willelmus canonicus 
de Landia. Jordanus de Pantunia... ewaldus® Brito . Walerandus . 
Willelmus de Freneio . Drewi de Lallefor . Petrus Ar[?mi]ger . et Rog[er- 
us} Cainel.* 


Equestrian seal of brown wax; horse to left, heater-shape shield; 
broken. 


Endorsed: . . . [fohann\is de Stuteulla . de Lellefordia. The 
number 408, also written, is evidently in Madox’s hand. 


William de Stuteville issued a notification to Richard bishop of Chester 
confirming the gift which his father Robert de Stuteville and John his 
(William’s) uncle and John his (John’s) son made in Lalleford.6 In a con- 
firmation charter issued by Henry II to Pipewell abbey, 1155-58, there were 
included gifts made by Robert de Stuteville and John his brother and John 
and Roger, sons of the said John.® 


1 Reg. Giffard, pp. 251, 286. 

2 Only the first three witnesses are given by Madox. 

3 Torn ; not Walterus as in Dodsw. . 

4 The number vi, possibly a Pipewell abbey number, is on the fold. 

5 MS. Dodsworth Ixii, f. 64, from William Lisle’s evidence of Wil- 
burgham, co. Cambridge. 

® Cal. Chart. Rolls,. 1226-57, p. 207. Although the transcript has the 
Dei gratia style the limits. of date are determined by the place of issue, 
Woodstock, and the witness Walter bishop of Chester (1149-60); the king 
being out of England in 1159 and 1160. 


132 STUTEVILLE FEE 


These references prove the identity of the grantor, of whom an account 
has been given in Chapter I, §2. The notification to Richard bishop of 
Chester shows that it recorded an additional gift made subsequently to 
those confirmed by Henry Il. The date of the king’s charter suggests that 
the feoffment made to Robert de Stuteville III by Roger de Mowbray 
(of whom Long Lawford was held) was made not later than 1158. 


63. Confirmation by John de Stuteville to Thorney abbey of half 
the vill of Wing [Rutland], as Robert de Montfort had given it, 
so that Gilbert abbot of Thorney and the monks should hold it 
of him and his heirs free from all service, claim and custom; 
and as an addition the gift of the whole church of the vill. 

[1151-54] 
Red Book of Thorney, Cambridge University Library, Add. MS. 
3021, f. 232.1 Pd. in Mon. Ang., ii, 604, from the same. 
Rodberto Lincoln[iensi] episcopo et omnibus sancte Dei ecclesie 
filiis et omnibus hominibus suis Francis et Anglis Johannes de Stutauill’ 
salutem. Sciatis me dedisse et confirmasse et concessisse dimidiam 
villam que dicitur Weng’? cum omnibus pertinenciis ad predictam 
terram pertinentibus in elemosinam canonice, pro salute anime mee 
et uxoris mee et patris mei et matris mee et fratrum et antecessorum 
et successorum meorum et omnium fidelium Dei defunctorum et pro 
fraternitate loci, sicut Robertus de Monfort dedit Deo et ecclesie de 
Thornfeia] in elemosinam. Et volo et concedo ut Gislebertus abbas 
predicte ecclesie de Thorneia et monachi illius loci predictam ele- 
mosinam de Weng’ bene et in pace et libere et quiete ab omni servitio 
et calumpnia et consuetudine de me et heredibus meis inperpetuum 
habeant et teneant. Istius donacionis sunt testes, W. decanus de 
Sait’,> Ern’ capellanus, etc. Super hanc vero donacionem sciatis me 
accrevisse ecclesiam de Thorn[eia] de donacione et dominatione 
tocius ecclesie predicte ville. Teste,4 Waleranno, [?] Hauenanno 
Papeillun, Ansg’ de Canci, Iuone et Gerardo Palmer. 


The limits of date assigned are those of the tenure of Gilbert abbot 
of Thorney.® The charter is preceded by a notification to Robert bishop of 
Lincoln (who died in 1166) by Thurstan de Montfort of his gift (probably 
confirmation) to Thorney abbey of a moiety of the vill, church and mill of 
Wing, with specified exceptions, for the soul of Robert de Montfort his 
brother ; saving the king’s service and that of the earl of Warwick, the 
first witness being Robert his son.® In 1206 the prior of St. Neot’s brought 
an assize of darrein presentment to the church of Wing against Thurstan 
de Montfort, grandson of Thurstan the elder, and the abbot of Thorney ; 
and the statements on either side illustrate the conflicting nature of grants 
made to the two houses, though no reference was made to any charter of 


1 Heading : Carta domini Johannis de Stuteuill’ de concessione et 
confirmatione predictorum tenementorum. C. iii. This text is from a 
transcript kindly made by Mr. C. N. L. Brooke. 

2 Wenge elsewhere on the same folio. 

3 Not Savesberia as in M.A. He was evidently the rural dean and 
rector of Seaton, which lies 3 miles S. of Wing. 

4 Sic; 

5 Mon. Ang., ii, 595. ® Pd. ibid., p. 604. 


CHARTERS OF THE STUTEVILLE FAMILY 133 


John de Stuteville.1 There seems to be no clue to the origin of the interest 
of John de Stuteville in Wing, which was a member of the honour of Warwick. 
His identity is assured by the entries in the Liber Vitae of Thorney (p. 23 
above). 


64. Gift by Anselm de Stuteville to Robert Talun of all the meadow 
of “Brundune’ [in Little Kelk, par. Foston], 20 acres of land 
adjacent, and common pasture in the moor for the beasts of 
his house; for half a mark yearly. [c. 1180-1199] 

Bridlington Chartulary, B.M. Add. MS. 40008, f. 124V (old f. 1209). 
Abst. in Bridlington Chartulary, p. 162. 

Sciant? presentes et futuri quod ego Ancelmus de Estut[euille] 
dedi et concessi et hac carta mea confir[mavi] Roberto Talun et 
heredibus suis tenendam de me et heredibus meis totam hogam de 
Brundune et xx. acras terre propinquiores juxta predictam hogam 
cum marisco quod pertinet ad predictas xx'i acras terre® et com- 
munem pasturam in mora ad propria averia sua domus sue; tenendam 
de me et heredibus meis pro dimidia marca per annum, scilicet xl. d. 
ad Pentecosten et xl. d. ad festum sancti Martini. Hiis testibus, 
Willelmo de Estut[euille], Willelmo de Cortingham,* Henrico de 
Knaresb[urg], Benedicto de Scoullecotes, Godefrido de Harpham, 
Johanne de Harpham, Willelmo de Rudstan, Thoma filio Wale, 
Willelmo de Soiles, Radulfo de Vlram. 


This is the first charter in a considerable section of the Chartulary 
relating to Kelk.2 The whole manor and vill of Little Kelk became a pos- 
session of the priory,® and Brundone or Brundonne is named as land therein.’ 

The grantor was the son of Roger de Stuteville of Weston Colville, co. 

- Cambridge, and Burton Agnes, whom he succeeded between 1172 and 1194 ; 
he was dead in 1199.8 There were three successive members of the Talun 
family named Robert, benefactors of Bridlington priory, the second of 
whom gave mills and land in Kelk in the lifetime of Roger de Stuteville.® 

The Stuteville interest in Little Kelk was probably quite small, perhaps 
an outlying portion of the holding in Burton Agnes, from which it is 2 miles 
distant. 


65. Gift by Alice de Stuteville to Bridlington priory, for the soul 
of Isabel her sister, of a toft in Thornholme [par. Burton Agnes]. 
[1199-1219] 


1 Curia Regis Rolls, iv, 97 ; a day given in 1208 (zbid., v, 230) but no 
judgment recorded. The prior of St. Neot’s was, however, evidently 
successful (V.C.H. Rutland, ii, 106). For the Montfort family, starting 
with Robert de Montfort I (d. c. 1141) and his brother Thurstan de Montfort 
I (d. c. 1170), see Complete Peevage, new ed., ix, 120 et seg ; and cf. Appendix 
‘A in Chapter I above. 

2 Heading to the page: Parua Kelke. 

3 These words from propingquiores inserted above the heading with 
an interlineation mark in a different hand. 

* Sic, for Cottingham. 

5 Chartulary, pp. 162-72. ® Ibid., p. 168. 

’ [bid., pp. 8, 169. 

8 See the account of that branch in Chapter I, §3. 

° Chartulary, pp. 164-6. 


134 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Bridlington Chartulary, B.M. Add. MS. 40008, f. 124 (old f. 120). 
Abst. in Bridlington Chartulary, p. 162. 

Sciant omnes presentes et futuri quod ego Alicia de Stuteuil’ 
dedi et concessi et hac carta mea confir[mavi] Deo et ecclesie sancte 
Marie de Brid[lingtona] et canonicis ibidem Deo servientibus, pro 
anima Isabelle sororis mee et pro animabus omnium antecessorum 
meorum in liberam puram et perpetuam elemosinam unum toftum 
in Thirnum cum omnibus pertinenciis et libertatibus et aysiamentis 
intra villam et extra villam ad idem toftum pertinentibus, illud scilicet 
toftum quod Willelmus pistor filius Walteri tenuit. Et ego Alicia et 
heredes mei warantizabimus predictum toftum cum pertinenclis suis 
prefatis canonicis contra omnes homines inperpetuum. His testibus, 
Ancelmo filio meo, Waltero de Bouington’ et Willelmo filio ejus, 
Willelmo de Percy et Roberto filio ejus, magistro Henrico de Willardeby, 
Willelmo de Lekeburn, Arnaldo de Marton’,! Luca Siluer. 


The grantor, one of the sisters and heirs of Anselm de Stuteville, 
married Roger de Merlay I, of Morpeth, Northumberland, and died in 
1219. Her present gift was confirmed by her grandson Roger de Merlay III, 
who also confirmed the gift made by her sister Agnes in the next charter.? 
Agnes married Herbert de St. Quintin; and Isabel their sister, wife of 
Robert de Cramaville, died in the period 1199-1203. 


66. Gift by Agnes de Stuteville to Bridlington priory, for the soul 
of Isabel her sister, of a toft in Thornholme [par. Burton 
Agnes]. [1199-1219] 

Bridlington Chartulary, B.M. Add. MS. 40008, f. 124 (old f. 120). 
Abst. in Bridlington Chartulary, p. 162. 

Sciant omnes presentes et futuri quod ego Agnes de Stuteuill’ 
dedi et concessi et hac carta mea confir[mavi] Deo et ecclesie sancte 
Marie de Brid[lingtona] et canonicis ibidem Deo servientibus, pro 
anima Isabelle sororis mee et pro animabus omnium antecessorum 
meorum in liberam et puram et perpetuam elemosinam unum toftum 
in Thirnum cum omnibus pertinenciis et libertatibus et aysiamentis 
intra villam et extra villam ad iddem toftum pertinentibus, illud scilicet 
toftum quod Robertus mercator aliquando tenuit. Et ego Agnes et 
heredes mei warantizabimus predictum toftum cum pertinenclis suis 
prefatis canonicis contra omnes homines inperpetuum. Hiis testibus, 
Waltero de Bouington’ et Willelmo filio eyus, Johanne de Harpham, 
‘Willelmo de Lekeburne, Ernaldo de Martoun, Luca Siluer. 


1 These three are repeated. 
2 Chartulary, p. 162. 


CHAPTER IV. 
CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 


The sections inthe present chapter, together with the 
accompanying charters, relate primarily to the knights’ fees 
pertaining to that portion of the possessions of his grandfather 
which was recovered as a tenure-in-chief by Robert de Stuteville 
III in the reign of Stephen. The first document (no. 67) 1s his carta 
of 1166. It shows that he held in his own hand two fees of the 
old feoffment chargeable to the demesne, which was represented 
mainly by those parts of the manors of Cottingham and Butter- 
crambe and their appurtenances which were not sub-infeudated, 
and probably also by the manor of Langton. These have been 
numbered as §1. The knights’ fees then held of him, which are 
numbered §2 to §9, consisted of six fees of the old feoffment and 
an eighth of a fee of the new. Subsequent sections, §10 to §18, 
deal with some of the further sub-infeudations which were made 
at a later date, and were recorded as pertaining to the manors 
of Buttercrambe and Cottingham in 1282.1. There then follows 
a section dealing with the honours of Liddel and Rosedale, held 
in chief by Nicholas de Stuteville I and his descendants. 


67. Return made by Robert de Stuteville [III] of his knights’ fees 
of the old and new feoffment. [1166] 


Pd. in Liber Niger Scaccaru, ed. Hearne, p. 321; and Red Book of 
the Exchequer, p. 429, from Liber Rubeus de Scaccario, f. 119V. 


H. regi Anglorum ut domino suo karissimo Robertus de Stutevill 
salutem et fidele servitium. Domine karissime sciatis hos esse feodos 
meorum militum, videlicet de antiquo feodo: [§2] Robertus Murdac 
tenet feodum j. militis; [§3] Matildis filia Hugonis Camin? j. feodum; 
[§4] Osmundus de Stutevill duas partes j. f[eodi]; [§5] Ricardus 
Cruere® tertiam partem j. feodi; [§6] Galfridus Fossard j. feodum; 
[§7] Adam de Boltebi* j. feodum; [§8] Petrus de Cordanvill j. feodum. 
Et ego ipse [§1] teneo 1j. feoda in manu mea de antiquo feodo. Et de 
novo fefamento [§9] Rogerus de Cnapetot xj. bovatas de dominio meo 
pro octava parte j. militis. | 


§2. THE MURDAC FEE 


Robert Murdac held a knight’s fee of Robert de Stuteville 
III in 1166. The evidence suggests that this consisted of the 
Domesday holdings of Hugh son of Baldric in Skipwith (which 
may have included land in Menthorpe, par. Hemingbrough), 
together with a small portion of Little Weighton, par. Rowley, 
and in Kettleby Thorpe and Bigby, wap. Yarborough, co. Lincoln. 


t Por*the full list of these seé Chapter Ul. 
2 Comin, Lib. R. 3 Croere, 1b. * Bolteby, ib. 


136 STUTEVILLE FEE 


The predecessor of Robert Murdac appears to have been 
Richard Murdac, who joined with Robert de Stuteville III in a 
confirmation to Durham priory of the church of Skipwith (no. 7). 
A charter of archbishop Henry in favour of Watton priory, 1150- 
53, was witnessed by Robert de Stuteville with Hugh Murdac and 
Richard his brother.! Richard Murdac and Richard Cruer, another 
of Robert de Stuteville’s tenants, were among the witnesses to a 
charter of archbishop Henry in favour of Nun Monkton priory, 
1147-532 Richard Murdac witnessed a confirmation of the same 
archbishop to Fountains abbey,® and was the first witness to a 
charter of Ralph de Neville to Bridlington priory. 


The names of Richard and Robert Murdac suggest that of 
Geoffrey Murdac who lived earlier in the twelfth century. There 
is definite evidence that the latter held an interest in Kettleby 
Thorpe and Bigby (see Appendix A above); and it is not unlikely 
that, being in possession of some of the forfeited lands of Robert 
de Stuteville I, he made a feoffment of this knight’s fee to a 
member of a younger branch of his family,® and that this passed 
to the overlordship of Robert de Stuteville III on his restoration.® 


Nothing seems to be known of the heirs of Robert Murdac. 
In 1212 Nicholas de Stuteville was the tenant-in-chief of 1 caru- 
cate 6 bovates in Kettleby Thorpe and Bigby, which approximately 
corresponds to the Domesday holding of Hugh son of Baldric of 
154 bovates in those places, and precisely to the holding of Geoffrey 
Murdac in 1115-18;7 and the under-tenants of Nicholas were 
William de Scoteny and Geoffrey de Thorpe by the service of a 
third of a knight’s fee.® In 1238-41 Walter de Killingholme, 
William de Thorpe and Helena de Scoteny held a third of a knight’s 
fee in Kettleby Thorpe ;? and in 1242-43 Walter de Killingholme 
and William de Thorpe each held an eighth of a knight’s fee 
there of Joan Wake, who held in chief. In 1282, after Baldwin 
Wake’s death, it was found that a knight’s fee in Skipwith, [Little) 
Weighton, and Thorp in Lindsey |2.e. Kettleby Thorpe], pertaining 
to the manor of Cottingham, was held by John de Skipwith 


1 E.Y.C., ii, no. 1108 ; the clause has ‘Hugo Murdac et Ricardus frater 
ejus et filii ipsius [Hugonis, Stephanus,] Willelmus, Henricus, et Jordanus 
Malerbe . . .’; but it is not clear who were Hugh’s sons or what became of 
them. 

4 Tbid., i, Bo. 535. 5 Ibid., Uo. 7%. 

4 Ibid., 11, no. 1175, dated by Farrer 1160-65. 

> Except for his daughter Juliana, wife of Thurstan de Montfort the 
elder, nothing seems to be known of his immediate family. Probably arch- 
bishop Henry Murdac was related ; of him John of Hexham records that 
before he became a monk he was ‘ex dono parentum honoribus et divitiis 
locupletatum’ (Priory of Hexham, Surtees Soc., i, 150). Among others who 
bore the name in the twelfth century were the justices Hugh and Ralph 
Murdac (Foss, Judges, i, pp. 282, 404). There was also a family which held 
a tenancy of the earl of Warwick at Compton Verney, formerly Compton 
Murdac, in that county ; a pedigree is given in Dugdale, Warwickshire, 
2nd ed., i, 563 ; but no connexion with Geoffrey Murdac is known. 

® Cf. a similar suggestion for the Camin knight’s fee (§3). 

7 See Appendix A. ® Bk: of Fees, p. 158. > dbtd,,"p. 1475. 

10 Tbid., pp. 1012-3 ; these were of old feoffment (ibid., p. 1097). 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 137 


(Shtpwik) and his parceners.1 This gives the composition of the 
fee which can evidently be identified as that held by Robert 
Murdac in 1166. 


With regard to Skipwith a manor of 3 carucates was held 
there by Hugh son of Baldric in 1086, 5 carucates being entered 
as his holding in the Summary.? The bishop of Durham acquired 
land there and in Menthorpe, par. Hemingbrough, a place which 
is not mentioned in the Survey. In Feb. 1199-1200 the bishop 
enfeoffed Richard d’Avranches of 2 carucates in Skipwith and 
5 carucates elsewhere. In 1280 John d’Avranches and John de 
Thorpe occur as tenants in Skipwith in an inquisition relating to 
their bounds. In 1284-85, of the 3 carucates in Skipwith, 2 
carucates were held by John d’Avranches of the bishop of Durham’s 
fee and the remaining carucate by John de Thorpe of the heirs of 
Baldwin Wake ; and in Menthorpe, of the 4 carucates, 2 carucates 
were held of the bishop of Durham’s fee and the others by John 
de Thorpe of Skipwith of the same heirs.® The total holding of 
the Wake, formerly Stuteville, fee in the two places was therefore 
3 carucates ; and in 1346 that was the amount held of the Wake 
fee in Skipwith and Menthorpe by John de Skipwith.§ 


With regard to Little Weighton it has been noted above 
that in 1282 land in that place was associated with land in Skip- 
with and Kettleby Thorpe in the composition of the knight’s fee. 
This, however, must have been only a small portion of Little 
Weighton, as the greater part of it was included in another holding 
(see §3). 

From these details it can be deduced that the knight’s fee 
held by Robert Murdac in 1166 passed to a family which was 
known by the names of Thorpe or Skipwith. William son of 
Osbert de Skipwith held interests in Skipwith and Menthorpe 
early in the thirteenth century (no. 68). In 1258 there is a refer- 
ence to a gift of land in Menthorpe which had been made by Richard 
de Thorpe brother of William [de] Skipwith.?, The name Skipwith 
prevailed. Sir William Skipwith, the distinguished judge of the 
middle of the fourteenth century, was so known.’ In 1375 William 
son of Sir William de Skipwith held interests in Menthorpe ;? and 
an inquisition of 1417-8 found that Sir Thomas Skipwith had 
held the manor of Skipwith with appurtenances in Menthorpe.!° 
Accounts of the family name as its ancestor Patrick de Stuteville, 
a younger brother of Robert de Stuteville III, who was given the 
manor of Skipwith ; but no documentary evidence for the descent 


| Cals lig pai., i, BO~ 439; 20 VC: MOGhs.o iy pp: 277, 329. 

2 Yorks Pines, fohm, p. 3. 

* Yorks. Ing., i, no. 122. For the Avranches or Averinges family see 
Raine, Hemingbrough, pp. 243-5. 

5 Feudal Aids, vi, 35-6. 6 Ibid., p. 223. 

7 Yorks. Fines, 1246-72, p. 107. 5 Foss, Judges, iv, 88. 

% Yorks. Fines, 1347-77, pp. 187-8. 

10 Yorks. Ing., Hen. IV and V, no. 117; two-thirds being held of the 
bp of Durham, and the residue called Wake’s fee held of the heirs of the 
earl of Kent by knight-service. 


138 STUTEVILLE FEE 


or the gift appears to be available, and the existence of such an 
ancestor appears to be at least doubtful.t 


(1) SKIPWITH AND MENTHORPE 


68. Gift by William son of Osbert de Skipwith to Selby abbey of a 
toft in Skipwith which his mother had held in dower, and three 
assarts and land and meadow; and 2 bovates of land in Men- 
thorpe [par. Hemingbrough]. [ante 1228] 


Selby Chartulary, Add. MS..37771, f. 126: (old #: 120); Pd: m 
Selby Coucher Book, ii, 15. 


Sciant omnes presentes et futuri quod ego Willelmus filius Osberti 
de Schipwith’ dedi concessi et hac presenti carta mea confirmavi Deo 
et beato Germano de Seleby et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus pro 
salute anime mee et antecessorum et successorum meorum in puram 
et perpetuam elemosinam unum toftum in villa de Schipwyth’ quod 
mater mea tenuit in eadem villa nomine dotis et unum essartum quod 
vocatur Hirst et aliud quod vocatur Pichel et tercium juxta idem 
essartum quod vocatur similiter Pichel et iiij9 acras terre in marisco 
de Aldelandes et unum pratum quod vocatur Brunsadelboy,? cum 
omnibus pertinenciis infra sepes et extra et inter fossata et extra; et 
duas bovatas terre in territorio de Menethorp’ cum omnibus toftis ad 
eandem terram pertinentibus. Omnes istas terras prenominatas 
cum omnibus pertinenciis et libertatibus et aysiamentis in aquis in 
pascuis in bosco et plano et in omnibus locis ego Willelmus et heredes 
mei warantizabimus predictis monachis contra omnes homines. Hiis 
testibus, Johanne de Byrkyn, Henrico de Berlay, etc. 


1 In a 17th century account of the Skipwith family in Harl. MS. 
6832, ff. 248-9 (old ff. 299, 300) it is stated that the family lived formerly at 
Skipwith, co. York ‘of which towne they tooke the sirname about the 
time of k. Stephen from Patrice a yonger sonne of Robert d’Estoteuile 
the greatest man of that county in the raigne of k. H. I.’ This Stuteville 
ancestry is not supported by any documentary evidence, and the account 
goes on to say that Patrick de Scipwic married Beatrix dau. and h. of Pagan 
de Langtune and had by her Geoffrey de Scipwic. A 17th century pedigree 
in Harl. MS. 5019, f. 208 (old f. 216) starts with Patrick de Skipwith husband 
of Beatrix dau. of Pain de Langton, and has no mention of a Stuteville 
ancestor ; it is accompanied by several charters from family and other 
evidences ; one of these, a transcript of an original (f. 210V, old f. 218Y) isa 
gift by Beatrix dau. of Pain de Langetune to Geoffrey de Scipwic her son 
of all her land of Oswaldkirke, being a quarter of the carucate which had 

~belonged to Robert de Langetune her brother, to hold for a sixtieth of a 
knight’s fee; witnessed by William de Estutevill, Nicholas his brother, 
Eustace their brother, Anselm de Estutevill, and among others by Reginald 
de Scipwic and Gerald his brother. The date is late 12th century. These 
references are due to W.O. Massingberd’s History of Ormsby-cum-Ketsby, 
where (p. 53) he accepts the statement that Patrick de Skipwith was a son 
of Robert de Stuteville ; it is also accepted in the pedigree in Dugdale’s 
Warwickshire, 2nd ed., i, 84; in Banks, Dormant and Extinct Baronage, i, 174; 
in Foss, Judges, iv, 88; in the account of Menthorpe in Raine’s Heming- 
brough, p. 233 ; and in the Stuteville pedigree in Y.A./J., xxi, 68. It appears 
in Burke’s Peerage, e.g. editions of 1854 to 1939 ; but the Stuteville ancestry 
has been discarded in the 1949 ed., where the account starts with Sir William 
Skipwith, the judge. 

2 This reading is to be preferred to Brunsadewoy. as in the pd. text. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 139 


Although it is uncertain whether the lands conveyed by this and the 
following charter formed part of the knight’s fee which is the subject of the 
present section, it is likely that they lay in that portion of Skipwith and 
Menthorpe held of Stuteville rather than in the portion held of the bishop 
of Durham. 

The dates of the two charters are not later than 1227 when Sir John 
de Birkin was dead.? 


69. Gift by Jordan de Menthorpe to the infirmarer of Selby abbey 

of a toft in Menthorpe. [ante 1228] 

Selby Chartulary, Add. MS. 37775, 1. 426 (old f. 125). Pd. in 
Selby Coucher Book, ii, 16. 

Omnibus Christi fidelibus Jordanus de Menethorp’ salutem in 
Domino. Noverit universita[s] vestra me concessisse dedisse et hac 
presenti carta confirmasse Deo et sancto Germano de Seleby et monachis 
ibidem Deo servientibus videlicet eorum firmario unum toftum in 
villa de Menethorp’ quod jacet inter dominicum meum et terram 
Johannis de Menethorp’; tenendum et habendum eisdem in puram et 
perpetuam elemosinam pro anima patris mei et animabus parentum 
meorum libere quiete et integre cum omnibus pertinenctis suis liber- 
tatibus et aisiamentis ad dictum toftum spectantibus infra villam et 
extra. Et ego Jordanus et heredes mei predictum toftum cum omnibus 
pertinenciis suis predictis monachis contra omnes gentes imperpetuum 
warantizabimus et defendemus. Ut autem hec donacio mea rata et 
stabilis imperpetuum eis permaneat huic presenti scripto sigillum 
meum apposui. Huis testibus, domino Johanne de Birkin, domino 
Thoma de Gunneby, Johanne de Cliff’, etc. 


(ii) SUTTON 


70. Quitclaim by Geoffrey Murdac to the abbey of St. Mary, York, 
of 14 carucates of land which he held of the abbey in Sutton 

[by Stamford Bridge], and gift of a further 14 carucates there. 

fe. LL 15-¢.-1135] 
Chartulary of St. Mary’s, York (Dean and Chapter, smaller volume), 
£21, no. 3. 

Sciant omnes qui viderint vel audierint literas has quod ego 
Gosfridus Murdac clamavi quietam ecclesie sancte Marie Ebor[acensis] 
et abbati et monachis ejusdem ecclesie unam carucatam terre et dimi- 
diam quam tenui de eis in Suttona; et super hoc dedi eis in eadem 
villa de mea terra in pura elemosina j. aliam carucatam terre et dimidiam 
pro anima videlicet mea et omnium parentum meorum. Tenebunt 
autem predictam terram ab omni terreno servitio liberam de me et de 
heredibus meis sicut tenent melius et honorificencius alias elemosinas 
baronum benefactorum suorum. Testibus hiis, etc.” 


A note on the identification of Sutton by Stamford Bridge is given at 
no. 4. The gift by Geoffrey Murdac of 12 bovates of land in Sutton is recorded 


1 Exe. e Rot.. Fin., i, 162. 
2 See the footnote to no. 4. 


140 STUTEVILLE FEE 


in the confirmation charters of Henry II, 1156-57,! and Richard I ;? and in 
the same charters a gift by Robert de Meinil of 12 bovates there is also re- 
corded. These gifts were represented by the 3 carucates which Robert de 
Stuteville ILL confirmed to the abbey (no. 4). Robert de Meinil’s gift of 
14 carucates was confirmed by his son Stephen in the period 1130-35.3 It 
seems probable that the abbey enfeoffed Geoffrey Murdac of that moiety 
as an addition to his own holding of the other moiety, which he subsequently 
gave to the abbey by the present charter. 

It cannot be supposed that the land formed part of the knight’s fee 
held by Robert Murdac in 1166. But the charter is included here for conven- 
ience in view of the name of the grantor. The limits of date, tentatively 
assigned, conform with the period of his activities noted in Appendix A 
above. 


$3. THE CAMIN PEF 


The knight’s fee held of Robert de Stuteville III by Maud 
daughter of Hugh Camin in 1166 lay in Little Weighton, par. 
Rowley, and North Cave. 

At the Domesday survey the sole tenant-in-chief in Little 
Weighton was Hugh son of Baldric, who held a manor of 5 caru- 
cates there with a berewick of 2 bovates in North Cave.* There 
were four feudal tenements in North Cave at the Survey, which 
Farrer has described in an annotation to a charter of the Fossard 
fee, with a note on their devolution ; pointing out that in addition 
to the berewick, to which the church of North Cave was appur- 
tenant, 3 carucates in North Cave passed from the Malet fee to 
the Stuteville tenancy-in-chief.®> Later details show that in 1302-03 
6 carucates in Little Weighton and 24 carucates in North Cave 
were held of the Stuteville fee. It seems clear that a small portion 
in Little Weighton became attached to the knight’s fee held by 
Robert Murdac in 1166 (see §2); and it is recorded that in Little 
Weighton 8 carucates made a knight’s fee.’ 

It can be deduced from the terms of the claim made in 1208 
by Thurstan de Montfort for a moiety of a knight’s fee in Little 
Weighton and North Cave (Appendix A above),’ based on his 
descent from his grandmother Juliana, a daughter of Geoffrey 
Murdac, that Geoffrey Murdac held an interest in those places ; 
and it can be suggested that he acquired it, as he acquired the 
interest in Kettleby Thorpe and Bigby (see §2), with other holdings 
held in chief by Robert de Stuteville I, after the latter’s forfeiture 
in 1106. And as this knight’s fee, held by Maud Camin in 1166, 
was of the old feoffment, and so created before 1135, its creation in 
favour of Hugh Camin her father or his predecessor may have been 
due to Geoffrey Murdac, unless it had been created before 1106. 


1 E.Y.C., i, no. 354 (p. 272). 


2 Cal. Chart. Rolis, 1300-26, p. 114. 2G, Vike, WO Bons 
4 VC... Yorks., i, pp. 277, 318. 22 Yu, iy De 
6 Feudal Aids, vi, pp. 151, 153. " Tod 3p. 271; 


8 The claim was against Eustace de Stuteville, whose interest therein 
is not otherwise known ; he may have been given a superior interest by his 
father or brother. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 141 


Hugh Camin witnessed a charter of count Alan of Britanny 
to Durham priory, 1136-45, which included a gift of half Hunsley!— 
a place which had a close connexion with Little Weighton,? and 
where Robert de Stuteville I had made a gift to the priory (note 
to charter no. 1). He also witnessed a charter of Roger de Mowbray 
(no. 165). His wife’s name was Anor who occurs as holding a life 
interest (presumably in dower) in land in Myton. This Camin 
interest in Myton, held of the Mortemer tenancy-in-chief,* passed 
to Robert son of John de Meaux in marriage with Maud Camin, 
daughter of Hugh and Anor.6 It can be supposed that her in- 
herited interest in the knight’s fee held of Robert de Stuteville 
III passed to her husband in the same way ; and, as in 1166 she 
and not her husband was named as the tenant, it can be assumed 
that either the marriage had not taken place or else that her 
husband was dead ; and of these the former is more likely. Maud 
daughter of Hugh Camin also held a quarter of a knight’s fee in 
1166 of Everard de Ros,® which can be located in Leppington.’? 


Described as Maud Camin she was living on 19 May 1196, 
when her son John de Meaux (Mehus) made an agreement with her 
relating to her dower from the land of Robert his father.8 The 
tenure, in whole or part, held by her of Robert de Stuteville, 
passed to her descendants.? In 1282, after Baldwin Wake’s death, 
it was found that John de Meaux (Meus) held three-quarters of a 
knight’s fee in Little Weighton and North Cave pertaining to the 
manor of Cottingham ;° and Godfrey de Meaux, who died shortly 
before 3 Feb. 1310-1, held of Thomas Wake by knight-service a 
capital messuage and 34 bovates in Little Weighton, and a toft 
and the advowson of the church in North Cave." There appears 
to be no clue to the reduction of the holding from a knight’s fee 
to three-quarters, except that in 1284-85 the entry for Little 
Weighton, a member of Cottingham, clearly defective as there is 
no mention of the Meaux holding, gives a tenure by John de 


1 E.Y.C., iv, no. 17. An Odard Camin occurs in 1147-53 (zbid., i, no 
535). 2 *hec villa jacet in Widetone’ (D.B., 1, 328). 

> Chron: de Melisa, i, pp. 168, 310; and cf. E.Y.C., in, p. 106. 

* As recorded in 1086 (V.C.H. Yorks., iii, 269) and in 1305 (Cal. Ing. 
p.m., iv, no. 235), when the immediate under-tenant was the heir of William 
de Vescy. 

> Chron. de Melsa,i, 168. The facsimile of an original charter by which 
Maud dau. of Hugh Camin sold lands of her patrimony in Myton to Meaux 
abbey is given in Frost’s Hist. Notices of Hull, facing p. 8; among the 
witnesses are five married ladies. The charter is printed with a discussion 
of its terms and geographical interest in J. Travis-Cook, Notes relative to the 
manor of Myton (1890), pp. 38 ef seq. 

® Red Bk. Exch., p. 432, where Camerarii is an error for Camin, which 
appears correctly in Lib. Niger, ed. Hearne, p. 325. 

7 Feudal Aids, vi, 156. 

8 Feet of Fines, Pipe Roll Soc. vol. xvii, p. 137; Yorks. Arch. Journal, 
Sy £97; 

° There is a pedigree of the Meaux or Melsa family of Bewick, based 
on the Meaux abbey evidences, in Poulson, Holderness, ii, 20. 

10 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439. He also held 4 k.f. in Willerby, Wolfreton 
and Sculcoates, pertaining to the same manor (see Chapter IT). 
11 Jbid., v, no- 266. 


142 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Beauchamp of 24 carucates there.! Although nothing seems to be 
known of the origin of this tenure its amount may correspond to 
the reduction in the knight’s fee originally held by Maud Camin. 


§4. THE COWESBY FEE 


The two-thirds of a knight’s fee held by Osmund de Stute- 
ville of Robert de Stuteville III in 1166 lay in Cowesby, wap. 
Birdforth, Kepwick, par. Over Silton, East Ness, par. Hovingham, 
and Newsham, par. Kirby Wiske, all in the North Riding ; and 
later evidence shows that his holding was subsequently increased 
to 2 knights’ fees by grants of land in Brantingham, Riplingham, 
par. Rowley, Stillingfleet, and possibly Newbald, all in the wapen- 
take of Harthill in the East Riding? 

Details relating to the descent of the fee have been given in 
the account of the Stutevilles of Cowesby and Gressenhall in 
Chapter I, where it is suggested that Osmund de Stuteville was 
a younger son of Robert de Stuteville III. The fee passed to 
William son of Osmund de Stuteville, and subsequently to William’s 
grandson Jordan Foliot, whose holding of 2 knights’ fees of Baldwin 
Wake in 1282 lay in Cowesby, East Ness, Stillingfleet, Riplingham 
and Brantingham. The intervening tenure by Robert son of 
William de Stuteville, who died s.p., is shown by charter no. 75. 

The returns of 1284-85 show that of the 4 carucates in 
Cowesby 24 carucates were held by or of Jordan Foliot, who held 
of the heirs of Baldwin Wake ;3 in East Ness 3 carucates were 
held for a quarter of a knight’s fee of Jordan Foliot, who held of 
the same heirs ;# of the 4 carucates in Newsham one carucate was 
held by the abbot of Fountains and 3 carucates of Jordan Foliot 
who held of the same heirs ;° in Stillingfleet, where 3 out of the 
5 carucates formed part of the Wake z.e. Stuteville fee, one caru- 
cate was held of Jordan Foliot who held of [the heirs of] Baldwin 
Wake ;§ and in Brantingham and Riplingham 1? and 2} carucates 
respectively were held of the Stuteville tenancy-in-chief, though 
no under-tenant in those places is mentioned.’ These returns have 
a confusing character in that with regard to Cowesby, East Ness 
and Newsham the tenure of the heirs of Baldwin Wake is stated 
to be a sub-tenure of Roger de Mowbray ; and although that was 
true of Kirkby Moorside and its members, which had been held 
by Robert de Stuteville III of Roger de Mowbray I in 1166, it is 
difficult to suppose that it was true of lands which were held in 
chief by Robert de Stuteville III and held of him by knight- 
service when he returned his carta in that year. The same point 
arises in connexion with Boltby and the lands which constituted 
the Boltby fee (see §7). It is significant that no holding by knight- 
service in Cowesby or East Ness, nor also in Boltby, occurs in the 

1 Feudal Aids, vi, 48; the Stuteville holding in chief in North Cave 
is given as 3 Car. 

2 See Chapter I, §4, for the interest of Osmund in these places. 

3 Feudal Aids, vi, 53-4. 4 Ibid. p65. +-Ibtd., p. 53. 

© Jbid., p. 35, 7 Jbid., p. 48. | 


a 
ree 


J 
i Bay 


| 


ves 


— 


ae a ist! 


PLATE V 


"ut §S Aq $8 azIg 


“RQ opay o1ryar a yy reo oyecp, ¥ay' 


IZ ON 


- te 9° recy Toh 
me v4 aPC —_ S ee ca) es | y7 tie Rp yt | 


j Seabmrp, nD 


hes 


PEE’ 4 dra ype yl eo) a Uae a eS 0% ne ese wud 


yor. arent, ape uae nuyypates 308 ie drunzanb | 


Gp} Need Lame s{¢ ty vp th mmoriGo27A Cee verb ‘nine peg C UU 


Sh ley we loti. 1c 


ge, rund ota A Toptoed ¥ CF pgenrquian : cup 
ay ra | eG on F kus wrest if ty 


a9 aril. ais ak T(02 


tu pp gh nwo Sul off oboe B yoey 


2 are § sie oye ore 
Wie P Sp es un lor t= Le .. 


oa ™ ss) 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 143 


extensive list of knights’ fees held in chief by Roger de Mowbray 
III and recorded in the inquisitions after his death in 1297," 


(1) COWESBY 


71. Notification by Osmund de Stuteville that the controversy 
between Hugh bishop of Durham and himself relating to the 
chapel of Cowesby had been the subject of a settlement by which 
he quitclaimed all right therein, recognizing that it belonged to 
the mother church of Leake and that the chaplain should be 
appointed by the bishop and his successors, saving to Osmund, 
his heirs and men, the maintenance of service in the chapel. 

[1189-92] 
PLATE V 
Original charter in Durham Treasury, 3, 1, Ebor. no. 1. 
Osmundus de Stoteuilla . omnibus sancte matris ecclesie fil1is 
ad quos littere presentes peruenerint salutem. Nouerit uniuersitas 
uestra controuersiam illam que uertebatur inter dominum Hugonem 
Dei gratia episcopum Dunelm[ensem] . et me super capella de Causebi 
quam mihi uendicabam et cuius patronatum ad me pertinere dicebam . 
sic esse . terminatam . quod ego ius omne quod in ea mihi pertinere 
dicebam . ei et successoribus suis de me et heredibus meis quietum 
clamaui et recognoui quod capella illa ad matricem ecclesiam de Lech 
pertinet . et quod ipse uel successores sui quemcumque uoluerint 
capellanum eidem capelle assignare possint et preficere . ita dumtaxat 
quod ego et heredes et homines mei seruicium in eadem capella semper 
habeamus . sicut antiquitus habere solemus. Testibus . Burchardo 
Eborac[ensis] ecclesie thesaurario . Willelmo de Stoteuill’ . Willelmo 
de Coleuill’ . et Johanne fratre etus . Philippo de Coleuill’ . Radulfo 
filio Rad[ulfi]. Wiullelmo de Eton’ . Rogero Burd’ . Thoma de Amun- 
deuill’ . Roberto de Pelehale . Vincentio ... ..? 
Tag for seal, missing. 
The first witness Bouchard du Puiset, nephew of Hugh bishop of Dur- 
ham, held the treasurership of York from 1189 until his death in 1196.3 The 
latest limit of date for the charter is the death of Osmund de Stuteville on 


crusade (p. 34). For the earlier controversy about the chapel see charter 
no. 14. | 


(ii) NEWSHAM (KIRBY WISKE) 


72. Gift by Nisand de Newsham to Fountains abbey of an acre of 
land and facilities in Newsham, and of common pasture belonging 
to his half carucate of land there for all the beasts of the abbey 
grange of Kirby Wiske. [late 12th cent.] 

Fountains Register, B.M. Add. MS. 18276, f. 154V, Abst. in 
Fountains Chartulary, p. 772. 
Omnibus etc. Nisandus de Neusom’ salutem. Sciatis me dedisse 
Deo et monachis de F[ontibus] totam terram meam subtus Magnhill’ ; 
1 Cal. Ing. p.m., iii, no. 472. This can be contrasted with the details 


relating to Cawton and the Cruer fee (see §5). 
4 Toru. 3 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxv, 26-7. 


144 STUTEVILLE FEE 


quando infra istam acram turbas fodere voluerint easdem turbas 
siccabunt super terram meam proximiorem eidem acre sine accausacione 
et inpedimento quando fenum vel turbas de illa acra cariabunt. Ego 
et heredes mei warentizabimus eis eandem viam qua ego et antecessores 
mei solebamus cariare fenum de eodem loco. Preterea dedi eis in 
puram et perpetuam elemosinam quicquid appendit terre mee de New- 
som’ in Traneker’; et turbas quas in illo marisco fodient siccabunt 
super terram meam proximam illi marisco utrum eis placuerit el est 
vel el west;! et quando mariscum illud exenare voluerint incisionem 
facient super meum et aquam inde educent per terram meam de 
Newsom sicut eis placuerit sine omni inpedimento et habebunt liberum 
transitum introitum et exitum per totum super me in? cariagio suo et 
hominibus et omnibus averiis suis et omnibus rebus suis extra pratum 
et bladum sine inpedimento mei et heredum meorum. Dedi etiam eis 
communem pasturam in terrura de Neusom’ quantum pertinet ad 
meam dimidiam carucatam terre in eadem villa ad omnia animalia 
grangie sue de Kyrkby Wisk et illa pastura utentur quando et quomodo 
voluerint extra bladum et pratum, etc. 


The next charter in the MS. records a further gift of the same grantor 
of all his part of Traneker’ and all his land between Traneker’ and the water 
of Wiske belonging to his half carucate of land in Neusom, and notes his gift 
of an acre of the marsh below Magnhill ‘ut in carta precedenti.’ 

The MS. from which these charters are taken is a register drawn up 
in 1509 ; the fourth volume of the fifteenth century chartulary in five vol- 
umes, which would have provided witnesses, is missing.? 


73. Gift by Nisand son of Odo de Newsham to Fountains abbey of 
half a carucate of land in Newsham, where ten carucates made 
a knight’s fee. [late 12th cent.] 


Fountains Register, B.M. Add. MS. 18276, f. 155. Abst. in 
Fountains Chartulary, p. 772. 


Omnibus etc. Nisandus filius Ode* de Neusom salutem. Sciatis 
me dedisse Deo et monachis de F[ontibus] dimidiam carucatam terre 
in Neusom cum omnibus pertinenciis suis in perpetuam elemosinam 
salvo forinseco servicio quantum pertinet etc. ubi x. carucate terre 
faciunt feodum unius militis. 


Ensuing charters in the same MS. record confirmations by Robert son 
of Nisand de Neusom of his father’s gifts. 

The grantor’s father can be identified as the Odo de Neusum who 
witnessed Roger de Mowbray’s gift to Fountains abbey of Aldburgh near 
Masham in the middle of the twelfth century.> Robert, Eustace and Enisant 
de Neusum witnessed a charter to Fountains giving land in Kirby Wiske 
c. 1174-1181. The latter was the grantor of the present charter ; and he 


1 versus le est et versus le west ad suum placitum in a subsequent charter 
on f. 155. 
Sic ; but query super meum intended. 
Fountains Chartulary, preface, p. vii. 
Not Nisand son of Adam de Neusom as in the pd. abstract. 
Fountains Chartulary, p. 15. ° £.Y ©., v, ne, 285, 


nw Pe WY DH 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 145 


with members of his family witnessed several other charters to Fountains 
relating to Kirby Wiske.! Enisant or Nisand de Newsham was dead by 
1202 when Robert de Newesum (his son) held a third of a knight’s fee and 
owed service to William de Stuteville.2 Robert was succeeded by his 
son Ranulf before 1234, when the latter made an agreement with the abbot 
of Fountains relating to pasture in Newsham.? Ranulf had a son Robert, 
whose son, a younger Ranulf, succeeded.* This younger Ranulf is men- 
tioned in no. 75 below, of date 1270. 


74. Confirmation by William son of Osmund de Stuteville to 
Fountains abbey of half a carucate of land in Newsham which 
Nisand [de Newsham] had given, and of a part of the turbary 
in Traneker which Eustace [de Newsham] had given. 

[early 13th cent.] 
Fountains Register, B.M. Add. MS. 18276, f. 155. Abst. in 
Fountains Chartulary, p. 773. 

Omnibus etc. Willelmus filius Osmundi de Stuteuilla salutem. 
Sciatis me concessisse et confirmasse Deo et monachis [de Fontibus] 
dimidiam carucatam terre in Neusom quam habent ex dono Nisandi 
in perpetuam elemosinam quietam ab omnibus serviciis salvo mihi et 
heredibus meis forinseco servicio. Concessi etiam eisdem monachis et 
confirmavi quandam partem turbarie in Traneker’ quam Eustachius 
eis dedit. 

This is followed by the gift of Eustace de Neusom and Andrew de 
Kyrkbywisk and Juliana his wife, Eustace’s daughter, of all their part in 
the marsh of Traneker’, with facilities in detail on the same lines as those 
granted in no. 72 above ; and then by an agreement for warranty made by 

_- Eustace in 1201. It is probable that the present charter was issued soon after 

the grantor came of age, which is suggested as being in the period 1200-1202. 


75. Release by Robert de Stuteville, lord of Cowesby, son of William 
de Stuteville, to Fountains abbey of all right in 7 bovates of 
land in Newsham which Ranulf de Newsham had held of him 
and of which Ranulf had enfeoffed the monks, and in other 
specified interests there. 1270. 

Fountains Register, B.M. Add. MS. 18276, f. 158. Abst. in 
Fountains Chartulary, p. 780. 

Universis etc. Robertus de Estoteuill’ dominus de Couseby 
filius Willelmi de Estoteuill’ salutem. Noverit universitas vestra me 
relaxisse et quietumclamasse de me et heredibus meis Deo et monachis 
de F[ontibus] totum jus et clamium quod ego vel heredes mei unquam 
habuimus vel habere poterimus inperpetuum in vi). bovatis terre 
quas Ranulphus de Neusom de me tenuit in eadem villa de quibus dictus 
Ranulphus feoffavit predictos monachos tam in dominico quam in 
servicio. Relaxavi etiam et quietumclamavi de me et heredibus meis 
inperpetuum totum jus et clamium quod ego vel heredes mei unquam 

1 e.g. Fountains Chartulary, pp. 394-6, 404. 

2 Yorks. Fines, John, p. 58. On p. 35” above it is suggested that this 


William was William son of Osmund de Stuteville, coming of age in 1200-1202. 
> Fountains Chartulary, p. 778. 4 Tbid., ps 779. 


146 STUTEVILLE: FEE 


habuimus vel habere poterimus in servicio Johannis de Snappe de 
duabus bovatis terre et unius culture trium acrarum que vocatur Mus- 
wathfurlang’ in predicta villa de Neusom’ predictis monachis de 
F[ontibus] cum redditu x.s. quos dictus Johannes dicto Ranulpho 
reddere solebat, et etiam in uno tofto quod Willelmus de Wath de 
dicto Ranulpho tenuit in dicta villa cum toto illo prato quod vocatur 
Suthenge. Unde volo et concedo pro me et heredibus meis quod dicti 
monachi de F[ontibus] hec omnia prenominata teneant et habeant in 
puram et perpetuam elemosinam solute libere et quiete ab omni re et 
omni servicio sine ullo retinemento mei vel heredum meorum. In 
cujus rei testimonio, etc. Datum apud Font[es] anno domini millesimo 
Cex LEK", 


John de Snape, mentioned in this charter, was a party to a fine with 
Ranulf de Neusum in 1269, by which the latter gave him a messuage, 2 
bovates and 3 acres of land in Newsham at a yearly rent of 10s.1_ In 1271 
John de Snape gave the 2 bovates, with a toft and the culture called Mus- 
wathfurlang to Fountains abbey.? 


865. ° THEVORVUER FEE 


The third of a knight’s fee held by Richard Cruere of Robert 
de Stuteville III in 1166 consisted of land in Cawton, par. Gilling 
in Ryedale, and possibly of a tenure in Cold Kirby. 

At the Domesday survey the count of Mortain held 3 caru- 
cates in Cawton, and Hugh son of Baldric held two manors of 4 
carucates, Gerard being named as his tenant.? The former holding 
passed to the Paynel fee; and in 1284-85 3 carucates in Cawton 
were held of John Paynel by Roger de Blancmusters for a quarter 
of a knight’s fee, Hugh son of Baldric’s holding being then repre- 
sented by 3 carucates which were held of the heirs of [Baldwin] 
Wake. by John Cruer for a quarter of a knight's fee* in 1167 
the tenants of Cawton had been Richard Criuere and Gerneg{an];° | 
and it is probable that the latter was the predecessor of the 
Blancmusters family in the Paynel portion of the vill. 

Richard” Crier, “the “tenant “of the “Stoteville pertion. of 
Cawton, witnessed a charter of archbishop Henry Murdac, 1147- 
53,6 a charter to the Templars, c. 1155-1177,? and a charter giving 
land in Ingleby Greenhow to Robert de Stuteville III dated 1166.8 
He held land in Cold Kirby, wap. Birdforth, which at a date 
later than 1154 became a member of the Stuteville fee held in 
chief,® where he gave 6 carucates to the Templars, and made an 
agreement with Roger abbot of Byland (no. 76). He also gave 
the Templars an acre of land in Cawton, which in 1185 was held 

1 Yorks. Fines, 1246-72, p. 170. 


2 Fountains Chartulary, p. 780. 

3 V.C.H. Yorks., i, pp. 221, 274. 4 Feudal Aids, vi, 64. 
5 Pipe. Roll 13 Hen. II, p. 97. 

6 E.Y.C., i, HO. O30. 7 Ibid., v, no. 389. 

8 Jbid., ii, no. 718 ; and see the note to no. 13 above. 


ee Chapter I above for the gift of Cold Kirby by king sores! II to 
Robert de Stuteville III. 
10 Miss Lees, Records of the Templars, p. 129. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 147 


by his son Aumundus at a rent of 12d.) It seems probable that 
the Richard Cruer who witnessed a charter relating to Gilling in 
Ryedale in the time of Robert abbot of St. Mary’s,? and therefore 
not earlier than 1184, was of a younger generation, and that he 
was the grantor of no. 78 below. 

It is likely that Aumundus son of Richard Cruer can be 
identified with the Osmund Croer who witnessed a charter of 
Geoffrey de Lascelles to Rievaulx abbey, 1170-76 ;3 and with the 
grantee of no. 77 below. As Osmund Cruer, knight, he witnessed 
a charter relating to Gilling in Ryedale c. 1181-1189.4 Alan Cruer, 
who gave land in Snainton in Pickering Lythe to Yeddingham 
priory, c. 1190-1200,5 was presumably a member of the same 
family. In 1218-19 among the sureties of Thomas Cruer, appealed 
of rape, were Richard and Robért Cruer.* In Dec. 1226 Richard 
Cruer quitclaimed a toft in Cawton to’ Luke de Cawton ; and in the 
following month he was one of three claimants to 2 bovates in 
Muscoates, par. Kirkdale.? In 1232 Emma Cruer claimed against 
William Cruer 3 carucates in Cawton as her right; and in 1234, 
described as daughter of Robert Cruer, she granted this land 
with a small exception to William and his heirs to hold of her 
and her heirs. In 1252 the abbot of Rievaulx brought a plea 
against William Cruer (Cer) to hold to an agreement touching 
8 acres of meadow in Cawton ;® and in 1262 William Cruer was a 
juror in an inquisition for the tenure of land in the parish of Mid- 
dleton in Pickering Lythe2® In 1268 William Cruer and Ellen 
his wife granted land in Cawthorn, par. Middleton, to hold of 
them and Ellen’s heirs.“ 

There seems to be no proof of the parentage of John Cruer 
who, as noted above, held the 3 carucates in Cawton of the heirs 
of Baldwin Wake in 1284-85; and who is named as one of the 
two joint lords of the vill in 1316. <A connexion with Cawton 
was maintained by members of the Cruer family for a long period ; 
and six generations are given in the maternal ancestry of George 
Rosse of Cawton at the Visitation of 1584.13 

It is confusing to find that in the inquisition held in 1282 
after the death of Baldwin Wake it is stated that the third of a 
knight’s fee in Cawton was held, not by John Cruer, but by 


1 Miss Lees, Records of the Templars, p. 130. 2 YC. tip, 489, 
* EY .C., 1; Wo. 728: * Tbid., iii, no. 1882. 

5 Torai, 1, no. 618: 

6 Rolls of the Justices ... Yorks., Selden Soc., nos. 228, 1044. 

7 


Yorks. Fines, 1218-31, pp. 83, 104. 
8 Ibid., 1232-46, pp. 11, 11”. It is possible that she became the wife 
_ of Stephen de Cawton with whom she made a gift of a messuage in Cawton 
to Roger de Houby and Emma his wife (perhaps her dau.) in Jan. 1271-2 
(ibid., 1246-72, p. 181). 
9 Monastic Notes, Y.R.S., 1, 177. 18 Yiorres..10@.,1, mo. 51. 

11 Yorks. Fines, 1246-72, p. 164. 

12 Feudal Aids, vi, 175. A deed being pd in Yorks. Deeds, x, no. 131, 
with other Cawton deeds, suggests that he was son and heir of William 
named above. 

13 Glover's Visitation, ed. Foster, p. 213. 


148 STUTEVILLE FEE 


William de Lascelles! Again at the death of Thomas Wake of 
Liddel in 1349 tenements in Cawton were held by William de 
Lascelles for a third of a knight’s fee ;? and in 1416 after the death 
of Alice countess of Kent a third of a knight’s fee in Cawton is 
described as that which William de Lascelles lately held, another 
holding there for an eighth of a knight’s fee being that which 
William ‘Crowell’ lately held. As is shown by the charter below 
(no. 79) a William de Lascelles held an interest in Cawton. In 
1212 Thomas de Lascelles was accused of making disseisins in 
Cawton ;# and in 1218-19 his connexion with Cawton was men- 
tioned in a case.® 

A difficulty of another kind hes in the discrepancy of re- 
corded statements as to the tenancy-in-chief of which the Stute- 
ville portion of Cawton was held. As in 1166 it was land held by 
knight-service of Robert de Stuteville III, and represented one 
of the feoffments specified in his carta, it would naturally be 
supposed that he was the tenant-in-chief ; and, indeed, at the 
death of Baldwin Wake it was duly entered among the knights’ 
fees appurtenant to the manor of Buttercrambe which he held 
in chief. On the other hand in the returns of 1284-85 the 3 caru- 
cates in Cawton held by John Cruer of the heirs of [Baldwin] 
Wake are given as held by the latter of Roger de Mowbray ;6 
after the death of Roger de Mowbray in 1297 it was recorded in 
1301 that 6 carucates in Cawton were held of him by Joan Wake 
for half a knight’s fee ;? and at the death of Thomas Wake of 
Liddel in 1349 the tenancy in Cawton was apparently given as a 
member of the manor of Kirkby Moorside, which he held of 
John de Mowbray. But Cawton hes considerably nearer to 
Kirkby Moorside than to Buttercrambe, and it may have been 
administered from the former for reasons of convenience. It is 
not unlikely that in those circumstances the jurors may have 
supposed that the tenancy-in-chief was the same as that of Kirkby 
Moorside, and that the Stuteville portion of Cawton was therefore 
a member of the honour of Mowbray ; and the balance of evidence 
suggests that this was incorrect. 


(i) COLD KIRBY 


76. Agreement between Roger, abbot of Byland, and the monks and 
Richard Cruer to settle the dispute relating to land in Scheperlage 
fin Cold Kirby], by which the abbot, with the counsel of his 
chapter and of others named, released his claim thereto, and 
Richard Cruer gave the monks the corn thereon and also 100 
acres therein nearest to Old Byland in the open land at [Cold] 
1 Cal. Ing. p.m., ili, no. 439. 2 Tbid., ix, nONZ19. 

3 Yorks. Ing., Hen. JV and V, Y.R.S:, no: 114, 

4 Curia Regis Rolls, vi, 332. 

5 Rolls of the Justices .... Yorks., no. 1024. 

° Feudal Ards, vi, 64. 

7 Cal. Ing. p.m., iii, no. 472. The details cannot be correct, for 6 car. 


represented the whole of Cawton and not only the Stuteville- Wake portion, 
© [bid:, ix, no, 219; 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 149 


Kirby, for the term of his life with remainder to [?] his heir and 
the men of [Cold] Kirby. [1150-53] 
Byland Chartulary, Egerton MS. 2823, f. 48V (old f. 153%). 


Notum sit omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis qui has literas 
visuri sunt vel audituri quod hec est convencio inter Rogerum abbatem 
de Bellfalanda] et monachos ejusdem domus et Ricardum Croyer de 
terra in Scheperlage que fuit in calumpnia inter eos. Quod idem 
Rogerus abbas consilio monachorum suorum et capituli sui et Roberti 
de Alney et Roberti de Dayuill’? et Willelmi Wildfar’ et Goderici 
conversi quietam clamavit in verbo veritatis quod nec ipse nec monachi 
ejusdem domus presentes vel futuri nuncquam in perpetuum predictam 
terram calumpnientur, tali pacto quod Ricardus Croyer dedit predictis 
monachis bladum quod fuit super illam terram quum hec convencio 
facta erat. De predicta etiam terra scilicet Scheperlage dedit idem 
Ricardus predict[is monachis]? c. acras in vita ejus tantum propinquiores 
Veteri Bell[alande] in plana terra ad Kerbyhav . . . . et post decessum 
ejus iidem monachi reddent eandem terram scilicet c. acras [? heredi 
predicti Ricardi]! et hominibus de Kereby liberam et quietam sine 
aliquo retinemento. [Hec]! concordia ... . facta in capitulo sancti 
Petri Ebor[acensis] coram archiepiscopo Henrico Murdac et coram 
decano Roberto? Buteuilayn et coram thesaurario Hugone et coram 
Thoma de Rainauyll’, etc. 


The second witness gives rise to a difficulty, for Robert Butevilain 
did not become dean of York until sometime between 13 Dec. 1157 and 
6 May 1158, having witnessed several charters of archbishop Henry as 
archdeacon.? It can be suggested, therefore, that decano is an error in the 
MS. for archidiacono. As Hugh du Puiset, the treasurer, witnessed in the 

' presence of archbishop Henry the earliest date is 1150.4 

The charter shows that Richard Cruer held an interest in Cold Kirby 
before Henry II gave it to Robert de Stuteville III. For Robert d’Aunay, 
the hermit of Hood who joined abbot Gerold’s congregation, see no. 115. 


(ii) CAWTON 


77. Gift by Thurstan son of Bernard de Cawton to Osmund Cruer 
and his heirs of land next to the vill of Cawton, two doles at 
Grimston, a wandale at Gilling and another at St. Wilfred’s 
spring; rendering yearly a pound of cumin at Christmas. 

{late Henry IT] 
PLATE VI 


Original charter, Yorkshire Archaeological Society, DD 65/1. 


Omnibus uisuris uel audituris litteras istas tam presentibus quam 
futuris . Turstinus filius Bernardi de Caluetona salutem. Noueritis 
uniuersi me dedisse et concessisse et hac mea carta confirmasse 
Osmundo Croere et heredibus suis terram meam propinquiorem uille 
de Caluetona uers® occidentem . in australi parte uie . latitudine 


1 Stained. 
2 Although there is a stain there is no reasonable doubt of what was 
written. 3 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxiv, 371. 


4 Tbid., xxxv, ¥1. 5 Sic, for uersus. 


150 STUTEVILLE FEE 


quatuor percarum terre . et longitudine a uia que ducit ad Gillinge . 
usque ad culturam eiusdem Osmundi Croere . et duas dailas meas 
ultra sicum apud Grimestonam . et wandailam meam apud Gillinge 
sub Cliuo . et wandailam meam ad fontem sancti Wilfridi . pro seruicio 
et homagio suo tenend[a] de me et heredibus meis in feudo et hereditate . 
libere . et quiete et honorifice reddendo inde annuatim mihi et heredibus 
meis unam libram cumini ad Natale . pro omni seruitio et exactione 
seculari. His testibus . Willelmo de Stainegrif . Ricardo de Wiuilla . 
Reginaldo de Capetoft . Radulfo de Surdeual . Roberto de Buleford . 
Alano de la Mare . Roberto de Chambord . Willelmo fil[io] suo . 
Patricio de Ridal’ . Roberto de Vado . Radulfo fratre eius . Arnaldo 
Percehaie . Ricardo Croere . Radulfo B’ard . et multis aliis. 


Tag for seal.' 


Of the witnesses named Kobert de Chambord, who was living in 
1154-58 and 1166, the father of William Chambord living in 1201,” issued a 
charter to Rievaulx abbey temp. Henry II, which was witnessed by the first, 
second, fourth and tenth witnesses to the present charter.? Patrick de 
Ridale suggests a date not earlier than c. 1175.4 


78. Gift by Richard Cruer to the hospital of St. Peter, York, of 
a bovate of land in the territory of Cawton. [c. 1190-1210] 


MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 116V, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Ricardus Cruer pro salute 
anime mee et antecessorum et heredum meorum dedi concessi et hac 
presenti carta mea confirmavi Deo et pauperibus hospitalis beati Petri 
Eborac[ensis] totam illam bovatam terre in territorio de Kalueton 
in Rydale quam Guarinus tenuit cum tofto et crofto que Alanus Bonde 
tenuit, scilicet tenendam et habendam predictis pauperibus cum 
omnibus pertinentiis suis infra villam et extra in puram et perpetuam 
elemosinam libere integre honorifice et quiete ab omni servitio et ab 
omni exactione sicut ulla elemosina liberius potest dari . Et ego predictus 
Ricardus et heredes mei warantizabimus adquietabimus et defen- 
demus predictis pauperibus predictam bovatam terre cum tofto et 
crofto et cum omnibus aliis liberis pertinentiis suis infra villam et extra 
in toftis et croftis in intro[it]ibus et exitibus in bosco et plano in viis 
et semitis in pratis et pasturis in aquis et ripis et moris et mariscis 
in turbariis et in omnibus libertatibus et aisiamentis ad predictam 
terram pertinentibus ut simus participes omnium oracionum elemos- 
inarum et aliorum beneficiorum que fiunt vel facienda sunt in prefata 
domo Dei. Huis testibus, Roberto celerario, Girardo, Willelmo et 
aliis fratribus predicte domus, Ranulfo, Roberto, Lamberto et aliis 
capellanis ipstus domus, Toma de Lang[wat] et aliis clericis, Driu 
de Heirum, Willelmo filio ejus, Bern[ardo] de Halnathbi, Willelmo 


1 Pinned on is a seal which does not belong : a fourteenth-century seal 
of red wax, pointed oval, chipped ; within a reticulated border the Virgin 
and Child, with a kneeling donor above whom is a shield of arms, two Seis 

2 E.Y.C., v, no. 343 and note ; vi, Pe 142-3. 

3 Ibid., v, no. 344. * Ibid, ii, p. 116. 


PLATE VI 


ee 5 4 “f Let ia 

. Kae bed 4 +3 oS ie oe ee : se ee 
ae a5) 6% re OTT *¢ ont aS 
none ATSS a 


“ur §S £q 8 ozIg 


LL ‘ON 


nt aig 28 Somes paws on ae 2 
_ sta fs a0 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 151 


de Redburn’, Roberto Cruer, Henrico Baret, Radulfo de Surdeuall, 
Gaufrido de Etton,! et multis aliis. 


Seal described as a lion passant to the sinister parte; PJ« SIGILLVM . 
RICARDI CRVER. 


This gift is not mentioned in the papal confirmations of the period 
1173-85.2, An examination of the list of brethren who occur as witnesses to 
other charters suggests the period assigned above.* Drew de Harome was 
living 1180-90 and in 1208.4 Such a date as is suggested conforms with 
the probability that the charter was issued by a younger Richard, and not 
by Richard Cruer the tenant in 1166. 


79. Quitclaim by William de Lascelles of Cawton to Rievaulx abbey 
of a meadow in Cawton which the abbey had in exchange from 
Richard de Ros and Sibyl his wife, and of a yearly rent of 3s. 
which the abbey had from them from a bovate of land in the 
same vill. [early 13th cent.] 

MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 152V, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. Pd. (incompletely) in Rzevaulx Chartulary, 
p. 207, from Dodsworth. 

Omnibus Christi fidelibus presentibus et futuris Willelmus de 
Lascell’ de Calueton salutem. Noveritis [me] concessisse remisisse 
et quietum clamasse pro me et heredibus meis in liberam et perpetuam 
elemosinam Deo et beate Marie Ryeuall[is] et abbati et monachis ibidem 
Deo servientibus et eorum successoribus pro salute anime mee et 
omnium parentum et heredum meorum totum pratum in territorio de 
-Calueton cum libero ingressu et egressu sibi hominibus et cariagiis suis 
quod habent in escambio de Ricardo de Ros et Sibilla uxore ejus et 
annuum redditum trium solidorum quem habent de eisdem Ricardo de 
Ros et Sibilla uxore® ejus de una bovata terre quam Walterus carpent- 
arlus tenuit in eadem villa de Calueton; habendum et tenendum dictis 
abbati et monachis et eorum successoribus libere quiete et solute ab 
omni terreno servitio et seculari demanda per omnia sicut in carta dict- 
orum Ricardi de Ros et Sibille uxoris ejus quam inde habent plenius 
continetur, salvo mihi et heredibus meis servitio quod Johannes Wulfyne 
et heredes sui mihi debent pro predicta terra. In cujus rei testimonium 
presenti scripto sigillum meum eposui. Huis [testibus], Roberto de 
Sproxton, Willelmo de Barton, Petro de Jarpinuill’, Drog[one] de 
Harum, Johanne de Est Neuton, Willelmo de Etton, Willelmo Bote, 
Iuone de Nauilton, Willelmo Freman, et aliis. 


Drawing of seal : a sexfotl; ox S. WILL’I . D’ . LACELES. 


The witnesses suggest a date in the first quarter of the thirteenth 
century. The third witness occurs in a Rievaulx charter of c. 1226 ;® the 


1 Elion, MS ; but see §18. 

2 Ibid., i, nos. 197-9. 

3 e.g. especially ibid., no. 242 of date 1195-1210, and iii, no. 1829 of 
date 1190-1220 ; Gerard occurs as cellarer 1201-18 (zbzd., v, no. 346), and the 
present charter may, therefore, perhaps be earlier. 

4 Ibid., i, no. 616 and note. 

° Stbille uxoris in both places, MS. 

® Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 341, issued by William de Ros, 


152 STUTEVILLE FEE 


fourth suggests a date rather earlier. A William de Lascelles with Wilham 
de Etton witnessed another Cawton deed.! 


§6. THE FOSSARD FEE 


The knight’s fee held by Geoffrey Fossard of Robert de 
Stuteville III in 1166 consisted of 10 carucates in Sutton under 
Whitestone Cliffe and Marderby, both par. Felixkirk, and Lays- 
thorpe, par. Stonegrave. 


At the Domesday survey Hugh son of Baldric held manors 
of 5 carucates in Sutton funder Whitestone Cliffe], 3 carucates in 
Marderby, and 2 carucates in Laysthorpe, Girard his man being 
mentioned in the first two places.2. The returns of 1284-85 show 
that among the lands which constituted the liberty of Byland, 4 
carucates in Sutton, 4 carucates in Marderby, and 2 carucates in 
Laysthorpe were held of the abbot of Byland, who held of the 
heirs of. Baldwin Wake.? The knight’s fee had been given in pure 
and perpetual alms to Byland abbey by Thomas Fossard (no. 88); 
and there is no mention of it in the extensive list of knights’ fees 
held of Baldwin Wake at his death.4 


Farrer has given an account of the main line of the Fossard 
family descending from Nigel Fossard, the tenant of the count of 
Mortain at the Domesday survey.® The fact that Nigel Fossard 
held 6 carucates in South Otterington of the bishop of Durham® 
shows that Geoffrey Fossard, who subsequently held land there of 
the Brus fee,? was a member of the same family ; more especially 
as Geoffrey Fossard held a knight’s fee of William Fossard in 
1166 ;8 and Farrer suggested that Geoffrey was.a younger son of 
Robert son of Nigel Fossard, and so a younger brother of William 
Fossard.9 


The charters of Robert de Stuteville III giving the knight’s 
fee to Geoffrey Fossard and confirming it to Adam Fossard have 
beén- printed in Chapter III, nos. 15, 16. . At Michaelmas 1163 
Geoffrey Fossard accounted for 40s. in Yorkshire. He enfeoffed 
Geoffrey his younger son of his tenure in South Otterington ; and 
this was confirmed to the younger Geoffrey by Adam de Brus II 
not later than 1195." His wife’s name was Maud (no. 80), and his 
heir was Adam, presumably his elder son, who succeeded before 
1183 (no. 16), and was amerced in Yorkshire in 1185, 1188 and 
1193.42 He claimed an interest in Hood, which lies about a mile 


1 Yorks. Deeds, vii, no. 173. 
4 V.C.H. Yorks., ii, 275-6 ; also 1 car. in Sutton, a berewick of Bagby. 
3 Feudal Aids, vi, 58. In the first entry ‘of the heir of Stuteville’, 
which had the same meaning. It is added that the heirs held of Roger de 
Mowbray ; but on this point see §4 above. 
4 Cal. Ing. p.m., li, no. 439. 
> £.YC., i, pp. 325. et seq. ped. at p. 327: 
6 Ibid., p. 326 and no. 931. 
1 Ibad., no. 799. 8 Ibid., no. 1003. 9 Ibid., pp. 327-8. 
10 Pipe Roll 9 Hen. Tf, p. 99, Rand VG. Wh Or goo. 
12 Pipe Roll 31 Hen. II, p. 70°; 34. Hen. IT, p. 925 5 Ric. I, ps 72. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 153 


to the east of Sutton under Whitestone Cliffe ; his dispute with 
Newburgh priory as to that place was settled in the presence of 
Hugh bishop of Durham, not later than 1183 (no. 121); and his 
gift of Hood to the priory was confirmed by William de Stuteville, 
1183-99 (no. 24). Agreements to which Adam Fossard was a 
party, being described as lord of all the ‘vavasaria’ of Sutton, and 
lord of Marderby, are printed below (nos. 81-2). He also held 
land in Bagby and Balk of the honour of Mowbray.! He married 
Hawise,a niece of Robert de Stuteville III (no. 16); and was 
succeeded by 1209 by his son Robert, who was living in 1217, 
when he returned to allegiance,? and as a knight in Yorkshire in 
1220.3 Robert Fossard gave the manor of Marderby to Byland 
abbey, his gift being confirmed by Nicholas de Stuteville II (no. 
60); and he was a benefactor of the Hospitallers (no. 83), and also 
of Newburgh priory.4— Joan, Robert’s widow, was a party to fines 
relating to her dower in Sutton in Jan. 1226-7 and 1227 ;> and 
she married William Arundel as her second husband, with whom 
in 1240 she was a party to a fine with the abbot of Byland relating 
to land in Sutton.® 

Robert Fossard was succeeded by his brother Thomas.? In 
1235 the latter gave to William, archdeacon of Durham, 2 bovates 

and a mill in Sutton, saving the rights in the mill of Joan, Robert 
Fossard’s widow. In Jan. 1236-7 he confirmed to the abbot of 
Byland 18 bovates, 189 acres of land, 14 tofts and pasture for 
260 sheep, 60 pigs, 20 cows, a bull, 20 oxen and 4 horses in Sutton 
and Marderby, with the fishery of Gormir, which had been given 
by Robert Fossard his brother, adding pasture for 60 sheep in 
Sutton ;°° and not later than 1238, described as son of Adam 
Fossard, he gave to Byland abbey the knight’s fee which is the 
subject of the present note (no. 88). 

The younger branch of the family, namely the Fossards of 
South Otterington, a member of the Brus fee, is outside the scope 
of the present note. But it can be recorded, as is shown by certain 
pleadings in 1231, that they held their land in South Otterington, 
as also some land in Sutton, as under-tenants of the elder branch, 
namely the Fossards of Sutton ;© and this conforms with the 
terms of the charter of Geoffrey Fossard to Geoffrey his younger 
son cited above. Their tenure of land in Sutton is shown in a fine 
of 14 Jan. 1240-1 between the abbot of Bvland and Robert Fossard 
(of South Otterington).™ 

1 Yorks. Deeds, ii, no. 30. * hot. Eves Claus. i OO7D, 

3 Curia Regis Rolls, viii, 210. 

4 Mon. Ang.; vi, 322. .Om 1 Dec. 1210 he recognized the right of the 
Hospitallers to the advowson of Felixkirk (Yorks. Fines, John, p. 164), 
which had been possessed by his father (no. 16 above). 

5 Yorks. Fines, 1218-31, pp. 104, 114. 

6 Ibid., 1232-46, p. 72. 

7 He had a younger brother Henry (no. 87). 

8 Ibid., p. 41. 9 Ibid., p. 46. 

10 Assize Roll 1042, mm. 3d, 7, 14, cited by Farrer in his E.Y.C. MS. 
for Stuteville ; and see Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 119. 

11 Ibid., p. 94. 


154 STUTEVILLE FEE 


SUTTON UNDER WHITESTONE CLIFFE 


80. Gift by Geoffrey Fossard and Maud his wife to Hugh the clerk 
of the hospital and his heirs of specified land [in Sutton] rendering 
3s. yearly. [ante 1183] 
MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 215, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 

Notum sit omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis tam presentibus 
quam futuris quod ego Gaufridus Fossard et Matildis sponsa mea et 
heredes nostri concessimus et donavimus et hac nostra carta confirm- 
avimus Hugoni clerico hospitalis et heredibus suis terram illam quam 
Lambertus de nobis tenuit, que videlicet est inter [fontem]! de Kalde- 
kelde et divisas factas inter nos et Adam de Boltebi. Hanc terram 
concessimus eis totam et integram usque ad croftum Helsi cum tofto 
eidem terre et cum Caluecrofto ; tenendam de nobis et heredibus nostris 
in feudo et hereditate liberam et quietam ab omni seculari servitio; 
reddendo annuatim tres solidos, scilicet xviij denarios ad festum sancti 
Martini et xviij denarios ad Pentecosten. De hac donacione testes sunt : 
milites de wapentac et nominatim isti, Fulco Painel, Richerius de 
Wassand, Tomas Mansel, Radulfus de Hiserbec, Gaufridus filius 
Ernaldi de Kiluintun’, Stefanus de Kiluintune, Hugo filius Arturi 
de Torentun, Iuo Peuenesel, Richerius de Cattune, Robertus Wigot, 
et alii plures. 


The reference to the bounds between the grantors’ land and that of 
Adam de Boltby suggests that the land granted in this charter lay in Sutton, 
which lies a mile south of Thirlby, a member of Adam’s fee (see §7). The 
first witness was Fulk Paynel I of Drax and Hambye, which he held for 
many years till his death in 1182-83.2, Ralph de Ysebec and Hugh son of 
Arthur de ‘Torton’ occur in 1185.3 The grantor was succeeded by Adam 
Fossard not later than 1183.4 


81. Record of an agreement between Arnold lord of Upsall and 
Adam Fossard lord of Sutton [under Whitestone Cliffe], with 
a description of the bounds of Middlemore which included the 
wood called Killingwith towards Marderby, where Arnold 
had no common and where pasture and common were used 
by the men of Sutton and Marderby. Disputes which had arisen 
between Arnold and Adam relating to common in the wood, 
and the felling of trees in Middlemore, were settled whereby 
Arnold should marry Juliana, Adam’s sister, and have for his 
men of Upsall common in the wood, without, however, the right 
to fell trees. . [c. 1183-1203] 


Byland Chartulary, Egerton MS. 2823, f. 67V (old f. 174¥). 


1 An interlineation mark with nothing added. 

2 E.Y.C., vi, pp. 18-20. He held land in the North Riding (b7d., pp. 
90-1). . 

; Pipe Roll 31 Hen. II, p. 70. The first took his name from Islebeck, 
wap. Birdforth. 

4 Farrer in his transcript of this charter suggested c. 1160-1175 as 
the date. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 155 


Memorandum quod tempore regis Henrici secundi filii Matildis 
imperatricis erant superstites Arnaldus dominus de Upsall’ et Adam 
Fossard dominus totius vavasarie de Sutton’ juxta Sanctum Felicem, 
ambo milites quorum solum et pastura simul conterminant. Et fuerunt 
divise inter solum predictorum Arnaldi et Ade a mora que vocatur 
Mideimore ut patet per siketum in presenti et per quandam antiquam 
fossam per medium Burtonholme usque ad Fossarddyk et inde ascend- 
endo per ductum qui vocatur Holbek usque ad campum de Kyrkeby 
Knoll’, infra quas divisas quidem boscus includitur qui dicitur Kill- 
yngwith versus villam de Martherby, in quo bosco nec dictus Arnaldus 
nec homines sui ullam communam aliquo tempore habebant nisi per 
eschapium et ipso Adam Fossard hoc ignorante, set ipsa pastura et 
communa homines de Sutton’ et Martherby pacifice utebantur in 
dicto bosco et ultra predictas divisas usque ad ductum qui vocatur 
Theuesdalebek; et sepe inter Arnaldum et Adam discordia magna 
emanavit tam pro predicta communa de Killyngwith quam pro amput- 
acione arborum crescencium in Middelmore que tunc erant speciosa et 
pulcherrima. Tandem mediantibus amicis et consanguineis anborum 
finali pace concordati sunt : ita quod dictus Arnaldus acciperet sororem 
ipsius Ade Julianam nomine in uxorem, et quod de Middelmore fieret 
composicio pacis pro se et suis imperpetuum, et quod ipse Adam super 
hoc in augmentum dicti matrimonii daret et concederet eidem Arnaldo 
et heredibus suis et eorum hominibus de Upsale tantum communam in 
predicto bosco de Killyngwith, sic tamen quod non liceret eidem 
Arnaldo heredibus vel eorum hominibus inibi arbores succidere vel 
asportare sine licencia et voluntate predicti Ade et heredum suorum; 
que omnia amicabiliter et in pace sunt completa. Isti Adam et Arn- 
aldus usque ad finem alterius in magna pace et amore pariter vixerunt. 
Et dictus Adam Fossard fecit partem manerii de Sutton’ et magne 
aule de Matherby ut patet per antiquum registrum de meremio pred- 
icte more de Middelmore ac de Killingwith, et ut patet per predictum 
registrum vocabatur Middelmore quia solum et pasturam de Martherby 
et de Upsall’ simul conterminat. 


Upsall hes a mile west of Kirby Knowle, which is 2 miles north of 
Marderby. The agreements recorded in this memorandum and the next 
were probably not made until William de Stuteville, the first witness to 
the next, had succeeded his father in 1183 ; and the first sentence suggests 
a date not later than 1189 ; in any case 1203, when William de Stuteville 
died, is the latest limit. At a substantially later date the agreements were 
included in the confirmation charter of Nicholas de Stuteville II (no. 60). 
For Arnold de Upsall see §12. 


82. Agreement between Adam Fossard, lord of Marderby, and 
Arnold de Upsall, lord of Upsall, regarding the felling and re- 
moval of trees in Middlemore which lay undivided between their 
land and pasture. It was agreed that timber should be used 
by both for building, but none should be sold or given away 
except by mutual consent. [c. 1183-1203] 


MS. Dodsworth cxviiu, f. 81¥, apparently from the original. Chartu- 
lary of Byland, Egerton MS. 2823, f. 68 (old f. 175). 


156 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Noverint universi quod cum controversia mota fuit inter Adam 
Fossard dominum de Martherby ex parte una et Arnaldum de Uppesale 
dominum ejusdem ex altera parte pro amputatione et asportatione 
arborum crescentium in Middelmor que mora inter solum et pastura[m] 
eorundem simul [conterminat]', tandem mediantibus amicis pro se 
et eorum posteris concordati sunt in hunc modum : videlicet quod 
boscus ibidem crescens servabitur in pace bona pro edificiis amborum 
sine vendere vel dare nisi fuerit ex mutuo concensu utriusque partis. 
Hec concordia facta est super moram predictam in presencia Willelmi 
de Stuteuill’, Ade de Bolteby, Hugonis de Malebys, Johannis de Dayuill’, 
Gilberti? de Menyll’, militum, et aliorum multorum tunc ibidem pre- 
sentium. 


Drawing of seal? : a shield of arms, a cross; ¥¥« SIGILL’ ARNALDI 
DE VPPESAL’. 


83. Gift by Robert son of Adam Fossard to the hospital of St. John 
of Jerusalem of the whole of ‘Batinum’ and other specified land 

in Felixkirk. [c. 1210] 

Pd. in Curia Regis Rolls, vi, 109, from Curia Regis Roll 68, m. 12 ; 
and in Mon. Ang., vi, 840, from the same. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis has literas visuris vel audi- 
turis Robertus Fossard’ filtus Ade Fossard salutem in Domino. Noverit 
universitas vestra me divine caritatis intuitu pro salute anime mee et 
predecessorum et successorum meorum dedisse et concessisse et pre- 
senti carta confirmasse Deo et sancte Marie et sancto Johanni Baptiste 
et beatis pauperibus sancte domus hospitalis Jerosolim et fratribus ejus- 
dem domus totum Batinum tam in bosco quam in plano tam in longum 
quam in latum quantum ad me et heredes meos. pertinuit excepta 
cultura Simonis Blundi et totam terram in longum et latum a Kalde- 
keld’ per cilium montis sicut vetus fossatum se extendit usque ad 
eandem viam que venit a monte versus ecclesiam sancti Felicis usque 
ad curtilagium Gaufridi Codi et ita per curtilagium Wilekini* de 
Monte usque ad curtilagium uxoris Roberti Heremite et ita per curti- 
lagium Roberti presbiteri sicut fossatum suum extendit descendendo 
usque ad cheminum et ita per eundem cheminum sicut cheminus se 
extendit suptus Rugemunt usque ad Kaldekeldesic et ita ascendendo 
usque ad Kaldechelde; totas prenominatas terras dedi Deo et sancte 
Marie et sancto Johanni Baptiste et beatis pauperibus sancte domus 
prefate hospitalis Jerosolim et fratribus ejusdem domus in liberam puram 
et perpetuam elemosinam sine aliquo retenemento et absque omni 
seculari servicio vel exactione mihi vel heredibus meis pertinente. 
Ego vero et heredes mei warantizabimus prefato hospitali Jerosolim 
et fratribus ejusdem domus totas prenominatas terras inperpetuum 
contra omnes homines in omnibus. His testibus, etc. 


This is entered on the roll for Michaelmas term, 1210. 


1 From the Chartulary text, where there are some minor differences in 
spelling. 

2 Stephano, Dodsw., with dotted line beneath ; Gzulberti, Chartulary. 
Either christian name might be correct. : 

3 Drawn by Dodsw. * Not Willielmi, as in M.A. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 157 


84. Release by Robert Fossard to Robert de Kirby of the rent of 
3s., being part of the rent of 10s. paid to him by the Templars 
and their men of [Cold] Kirby for the common pasture of Sutton 
[under Whitestone Cliffe] in accordance with the agreement 
made in the court of king John; reserving a rent of 6d. at 
Christmas. [1216-24] 

Byland Chartulary, Egerton MS. 2823, f. 49 (old f. 154). 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Robertus Fossard relaxavi et 
imperpetuum quietum clamavi a me et heredibus meis Roberto de 
Kereby et heredibus suis redditum trium solidorum quos mihi annuatim 
reddere solebat de illis decem solidis quos Templarii et homines sui de 
Kereby mihi annuatim reddunt pro communi pastura de Sutton’ 
que est inter magnam viam que tendit ad Clyueland et cilium clivi in 
lato et in longo sicut continetur in cyrographo facto in curia regis 
Johannis inter Templarios et homines de Kereby petentes et me 
tenentem, ita quod ego Robertus Fossard predictus et heredes mei 
decetero nichil exigemus de predicto Roberto de Kereby et heredibus 
suis occasione predicte concordie nisi sex denarios argenti quos mihi 
et heredibus meis annuatim reddere debent ad Natale Domini. Et 
sciendum quod predictus Robertus de Kereby dedit mihi pro ista 
clamacione quieta et relaxacione decem marcas argenti. His testibus, 
W[Pillelmo] abbate de Ryeualle, etc. 


The chirograph to which. reference is made in this charter and the 
next was drawn up in the king’s presence in Nov. 1209; it describes the 
pasture ‘que est inter magnam viam que tendit ad Cliveland’ et ciliam clivi 
in lato et in longo a divisis factis inter ipsum Robertum et Adam de Bolteby 
usque ad divisas de Killebrun’, which the master of the Templars claimed as 
belonging to his manor of [Cold] Kirby, and Robert claimed as belonging 
to his manor of Sutton ; Robert, whose right was recognized, granted the 
pasture to the master and brethren for the service of 10s. yearly, of which 
one of the Templars specified by name was to pay 3s.1 

If, as seems likely, the present release was made after the death of 
king John, the first witness must be William, abbot of Rievaulx from 1216 
to 1223-24.2, Robert Fossard himself was dead by 1227 (see above). 


85. Gift and quitclaim by Robert Fossard to the Templars of the 

rent of 7s. which they and their men of [Cold] Kirby paid him 

for the pasture of Sutton [under Whitestone Cliffe], reserving a 

rent of 6d. at Whitsuntide; the terms of the agreement made in 

the king’s court to be maintained. [1209-26] 
Byland Chartulary, Egerton MS. 2823, f. 49 (old f. 154). 


Omnibus Christi fidelibus hanc cartam visuris vel audituris Rober- 
- tus Fossard salutem in Domino. Noverit universitas vestra me pro 
salute anime mee et animabus patris et matris mee et omnium anteces- 
sorum et successorum meorum dedisse quietum clamasse et hac pres- 
enti carta confirmasse Deo et beate Marie et fratribus milic[ie] Templi 
Salamonis de Jerosolima septem solidos quos iidem fratres et homines 
sui de Kereby sub nomine redditus mihi reddere consueverant pro 


1 Yorks. Fines, John, p. 160. 2 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxviii, 36. 


158 STUTEVILLE FEE 


pastura de Sutton’ usque ad sex denarios annuatim reddendos mihi et 
heredibus meis de predictis fratribus et hominibus suis de Kereby ad 
unum terminum anni, scilicet ad Pentecosten. Et predicti fratres et 
homines sui de Kereby fruentur libere predicta pastura sicut in cyro- 
grapho facto in curia domini regis inter predictos fratres et homines 
suos de Kereby et me continetur. Et sciendum est quod ego Robertus 
et heredes mei nullam decetero loquelam poterimus movere erga sepe- 
dictos fratres nec homines suos de Kereby per aliquem articulum qui 
in cyrographo predicto continetur unde de predicto dono vexentur. Et 
hoc pro me et heredibus meis fideliter affidavi. Et ego predictus 
Robertus et heredes mei warantizabimus et defendemus predictum 
donum predictis fratribus contra omnes homines et omnes clamios 
imperpetuum. Ut autem hec mea donacio quieta clamacio et con- 
firmacio rata et stabilis permaneat presentem cartam sigilli mei im- 
pressione roboravi. MHiis testibus, Philippo filio Johannis, Olyuero 
de Buscy, Stephano de Maynyll, etc. 


86. Gift by Robert Fossard to Byland abbey of 12 bovates of land 
in Marderby, and land and meadow in Sutton [under Whitestone 
Cliffe]. [? ante 1219] 


Byland Chartulary; Egerton MS. 2823, f. 66 (old f. 173). 


Universis sancte matris ecclesie filiis presentibus et futuris 
Robertus Fossard salutem. Sciatis me dedisse et concessisse et presenti 
carta mea confirmasse Deo et sancte Marie et monachis de Bellalfanda] 
duodecim bovatas terre in terrura de Martherby cum omnibus perti- 
nentiis infra villam et extra, illas scilicet quas tenuerunt de me ad 
firmam ; et preterea triginta acras terre lucrabilis in cultura que dicitur 
Hestkeld versus le north et decem acras terre lucrabilis et dimidiam 
super Crossebergh in terrura de Suttona et quatuor acras terre et 
dimidiam ex utraque parte ductus de Suttona juxta Ball’ et sex acras 
prati in Northaskeholme et 11). acras prati in Witheker et duas acras 
prati quod dicitur Iokenewath. Omnia predicta dedi Deo et predictis 
monachis de Bellal{anda] in perpetuam elemosinam tenenda de me et 
de heredibus meis libere quiete ab omni terreno servicio et exaccione 
seculari preter forinsecum servicium quantum scilicet pertinet ad 
duodecim bovatas terre unde decem carucate faciunt feudum unius 
militis. Et ego Robertus Fossard et heredes mei manutenebimus et 
warantizabimus predictis monachis omnia predicta contra omnes 
_homines imperpetuum. Huis testibus, Eustachio de Stuteuill’, Willelmo 
de Scipwith, Johanne de Melsa, Roberto de Hesell’, etc. 


The last witness, if he can be identified as the Robert who died before 
1218-19 (see §17), puts back the latest date from 1226. In that case the 
first witness would be Eustace son of Robert de Stuteville III rather than 
Eustace son of Robert V, who was under age in 1219 (p. 17 above). The 
second witness may be William son of Osbert de Skipwith, living early in 
the thirteenth century (no. 68). 


87. Confirmation by Robert Fossard to Henry Fossard his brother, 
and his heirs, of a toft and croft in Sutton [under Whitestone 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 159 


Cliffe] ; rendering 1d. yearly at Christmas. [ante 1227] 


MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 215, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 


Omnibus videntibus vel audituris hanc cartam Robertus Fossart 
salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et presenti carta confirmasse Henrico 
Fossart fratri meo pro homagio et servitio suo toftum et croftum in 
Sutton que Walterus filius Carl tenuit cum omnibus pertinentiis et 
aisiamentis que ad tantam terram pertine[n]t in villa et extra; habendum 
et tenendum sibi et heredibus suis de me et heredibus meis in feudo 
et hereditate libere et quiete solute! et honorifice ab omni servitio 
consuetudine et exactione; reddendo mihi et heredibus meis unum 
denarium per annum pro omni servitio ad Natale Domini. Ego autem 
et heredes mei predicto Henrico et heredibus suis predictum toftum 
et croftum cum omnibus pertinentiis et aisiamentis warantizabimus in 
perpetuum. Huis testibus, Willelmo Britone, Johanne de Mundeuile, 
Stephano de Manil, Hugone de Upsale, Roberto Fossart, Roberto de 
Auforde, Petro de Richemund, W. Pinzun, et aliis. 


88. Gift by Thomas son of Adam Fossard of Sutton [under White- 
stone Cliffe] to Byland abbey of a knight’s fee in Sutton, 
Marderby, Laysthorpe, Hood and Felixkirk. [1237-38] 


Byland Chartulary, Egerton MS. 2823, f. 105 (old f. 211). 


Sciant omnes tam presentes quam futuri quod ego Thomas 
Fossard filius Ade Fossard de Suttona dedi et concessi et hac presenti 
carta mea confirmavi Deo et beate Marie et abbati et conventui de 
Bellal[anda] in liberam puram et perpetuam elemosinam feodum 
unius militis sine aliquo retinemento, scilicet in Suttona in Martherby 
in Laisethorp’ in Hode et in villa sancti Felicis cum omnibus pertin- 
enciis libertatibus et aisiamentis suis in omnibus locis et rebus, videlicet 
dominico in terra arabili in pratis in pasturis in aquis in vivariis in 
molendinis in boscis in planis in moris in mariscis in villanagiis et 
homagiis libere tenentium in maritagiis wardis releviis et escaetis et 
in omnibus aliis serviciis consuetudinibus auxiliis et sectis curie. Hanc 
autem donacionem feci eis pro salute anime mee et omnium ante- 
cessorum et heredum meorum ad faciendum inde quicquid voluerint 
imperpetuum. Et ego Thomas et heredes mei manutenebimus waran- 
tizabimus et defendemus predictis abbati et conventui de Bell[alanda] 
donacionem istam per omnia sicut supradictum est contra omnes 
homines imperpetuum. Hiis testibus, Rogero de Stapilt{ona] tunc 
vicecomite Eboracensi, Jordano Hayrun, Adam de Hiltona, Olyuero 
de Buscy, etc. 


The first witness was deputy sheriff of Yorkshire in 1236 and until 
Michaelmas 1238. The gift was presumably made later than Jan. 1236-7, 
when the grantor confirmed to the abbot land and pasture in Sutton and 
Marderby, adding a gift of additional pasture in Sutton (see above). The 
knight’s fee, described as in the same places as in the charter, was the 
subject of a fine dated 5 June 1239 between Hugh Wake and Joan his 


1 Written above sole. 


160 STUTEVILLE FEE 


wife (as confirmors) and the abbot, the fee to be held of them in frankalmoin 
at a yearly rent of 60s. and by doing the service of a knight’s fee in scutage 
only, other feudal services being expressly excepted.! It was the subject of 
an additional fine, between the abbot and Thomas Fossard in July 1240.7 


e7.. THE BOLIBY Fre 


The knight’s fee held by Adam de Boltebi of Robert de 
Stuteville III in 1166 consisted of 10 carucates in Boltby, Ravens- 
thorpe? and Thirlby, all in par. Felixkirk, and Borrowby, par. 
Leake. 

At the Domesday survey Hugh son of Baldric held 8 caru- 
cates in the first three places ; and additional land in Ravensthorpe 
and land in Borrowby formed part of the king’s manor of North- 
allerton.4 The returns of 1284-85 show that 7 carucates in Boltby, 
Ravensthorpe and Borrowby and 3 carucates in Thirlby were heid 
of the heirs of Baldwin Wake.® 

The family of Boltby was descended from Odo de Boltby 
who gave to Rievaulx abbey land and privileges in Hesketh near 
Boltby, 1142-45 (no. 89), and who was a benefactor of the Hos- 
pitaliers’ preceptory of Mount. St...John, Felaxiark.* It is not 
improbable that he was the ‘Gwido’ de Boltby who harassed the 
monks of Byland when they were preparing their new site for 
their move from Old Byland in 1147.7 His wife’s name was Juetta 
or Judit (nos. 89, 90), and he had three sons Adam, John and 
Jordan (no. 89). The latter can probably be identified with Jordan 
de Boltby, who with Sibyl his wife gave land in Nunnington and 
Fadmoor to Keldholme priory (no. 26 and note). 


1 Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 53. 2 Ibid., p. 83. 


3 This place was or became later the caput of the fee. Skaife notes that 
“the vill of Ravensthorpe has disappeared, but the moat which once nearly 
. surrounded its ancient manor house may still be traced in a field near to 
Ravensthorpe Mill, about one mile south of Boltby” (Kivkby’s Inquest, 
p. 97n). The name is preserved in the modern Ravensthorpe Manor. No 
account of the parish of Felixkirk was included in V.C.H., N.R. 

4 V Cid. Yorks.,.4; pp. 196; 279: 


> Feudal Aids, vi, pp. 54, 56. For the carucate in Borrowby, held ‘of 
the heirs of Ravensthorpe’, see the note to no. 93 below. The total of 10 
car. in the four places is seen in the returns of 1346, which included 3 car. 
held by the Hospitallers and 2 car. by Rievaulx abbey ; 10 car. making a 
k.f. (@btd., -—p. 246). 

6 Mon. Ang., vi, 838. 

7 Ibid., v, 352. Although ‘Gwido’ was a distinct name a mistake seems 
likely. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 161 


BOLLE Y and, the 
parish of PRU th 


UITON under 
WHITESTONE CLIFRE 


THUKeLg, 
2 


Scale 
ce 


2 O 


162 STUTEVILLE PEE 


Ovo DE BoLtBy = Juetta or Judit 
living 1142-45 living 1154-60 


ADAM DE BOLTBY John Jordan=Sibyl 
tenant of the fee in 1166 [?] 


| 
Adam 


living 1218-19 
ADAM DE Bo.ttsBy [I= 
d. 1226-30 : 


NICHOLAS DE BOLTBy= Philippa 


CEO ee b4 dau. and coh. of 
Adam de Tindale 
a, 1272 
ApaAM DE BottBy III=[?] Anora dau.=[?] Walter de Karrow 
d. 1279-82 


| (1) | (2) 
IsaBEL= Thomas de Lucy Alan de Walkingham = EvE= Richard Knoute 


| d. 1283 living 1316 
— 
/\ = William de 
| Cantilupe 
Adam d. 1308 
bees £280... ; ; 
d. s.p. Nicholas de Cantilupe 


living 1346 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 163 


Adam de Boltby, the tenant of the fee in 1166, succeeded 
before 1160, by which date he gave additional land to Rievaulx 
abbey (no. 90). He confirmed his father’s charter thereto in 1178 
(nos. 91-2). He witnessed a charter to Fountains abbey, also 
witnessed by Robert de Stuteville, sheriff of Yorkshire, 1170-75, 
and a charter of William de Stuteville, 1175-85.2 He was old 
enough to have a nephew Savaric who witnessed a charter to 
Rievaulx abbey, 1170-76.2 He was the predecessor, perhaps the 
father or more likely the grandfather, of a younger Adam de 
Boltby who at Michaelmas 1203 rendered account of 20 marks 
for the fine of his land of Ravensthorpe and Thirlby, namely of a 
knight’s fee of the fee of William de Stuteville.* 


On 7 Nov. 1208, following an assize of mort d’ancestor 
Robert son of Adam quitclaimed to Adam de Boltby his right in 
a carucate of land in Thirlby for 3 marks of silver.* In Nov. 1209, 
following a dispute between the master of the Templars and 
Adam de Boltby relating to certain pasture which the former 
claimed to belong to his manor of Cold Kirby (Kereby) and the 
latter to his manor of Ravensthorpe, the former recognized 
Adam’s right who granted him common pasture for his beasts of 
Cold Kirby for the service of 10s. yearly.6 In 1218-19 it was 
found by a jury that Adam de Boltby had disseised Adam son of 
Jordan de Boltby’ of a tenement in Borrowby, having given him 
a rent of 20s. and taken his homage. On 14 Dec. 1226 Agnes 
daughter of William quitclaimed to Adam de Boltby 2 bovates of 
land in Thirlby.2 He was succeeded by his son Nicholas, who 
described as son of Adam de Boltby made over to the archbishop 
of York all his land at Boltby and Ravensthorpe from 8 Sept. 
1230 for the receipt of seven crops in return for the archbishop’s 
bond dated 24 Oct. of that year to pay 142. 9s. 3d., being the 
debts of Adam de Boltby to Christians and Jews;!° a demise which 
was confirmed by Sir Nicholas de Stuteville." In 1244 Nicholas 
de Boltby brought a case against the abbot of Byland relating 
to a wood in Boltby which he had recovered in an assize of novel 
disseisin against the abbot ;! and on 25 June 1246 he made an 
agreement with the abbot for pasture rights.¥ 


Nicholas de Boltby married Philippa elder daughter and 
coheir of Adam de Tindale, who held the barony of Langley, 


1 Fountains Chartulary, i, 243. 

2 E.Y.C., i, no, 504. 

3 Toid., ti, no. 728. 

4 Pipe Roll 5 John, p. 212. Payment was completed by Mich. 1206 
(tbtd. 8 John, p. 197). 

5 Yorks. Fines, John, p. 142. 

6 Ibid., p. 161. Cold Kirby had been granted to the Templars by 
Richard Cruer (see §5). 

7 Perhaps the Jordan son of Odo de Boltby mentioned above. 


SROs of the Justices... Yorks., Selden. Soc.; p. 47. 
9 Yorks. Fines, 1218-31, p. 98. 
10 Reg. Gray, p. 40. 11 [bid., p. 239 ; and see no, 59 above. 


12 Mon. Notes, Y.R.S., 1, 28. 
13 Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 157. 


164 SLUTEVILLE TEE 


Northumberland, in chief by the service of a knight’s fee On 
2 July 1233, after he had made a fine of 20 marks with the king 
for his relief and had done homage, orders were issued to give 
him seisin of Philippa’s share of the lands of Adam de Tindale 
her father, saving the dower of Joan, Adam’s widow ; the share 
of her sister Isabel, wife of Walter son of William de Tunstall, 
being retained in the king’s hand until further orders. In 1236 
Nicholas de Boltby and Walter de Tunstall held the lands com- 
posing the barony of Langley for a knight’s fee ;? and in 1242-43 
Nicholas de Boltby held the knight’s fee entire.4 This suggests 
that Isabel had died in the interval without issue, and that 
Nicholas then became possessed of the whole barony in right of 
his wife. On 16 Oct. 1271 Nicholas de Boltby and his heirs were 
granted free warren in his demesne lands of Langley and other 
places in Northumberland, and also in Boltby, Ravensthorpe and 
Thirlby, co. York.®- He died shortly. Deldre 31. Oct. 1272 ;.and at 
was found that he held in Yorkshire a knight’s fee of 10 carucates 
of Joan de Stuteville which included land, a capital messuage 
and a mill in Ravensthorpe, 22 bovates in Thirlby and 32 bovates 
in Boltby, and 10s. yearly for herbage in Cold Kirby (Kereby);§ 
and also, in Northumberland, Langley and other places, held of 
the king in chief of the inheritance of Philippa his wife, daughter 
and heir of Adam de Tindale, by the service of a knight’s fee ; 
Adam their son being their heir, of full age.? In addition to his 
son he had a daughter. In 1244-45, when possessed of the marriage 
of Walter de Karrow, he was to restore it if he did not marry his 
daughter, described as the archbishop’s kinswoman, to Walter.® 
On 13 Dec. 1272 orders were issued for the delivery to Adam de 
Boltby of the lands of Philippa his mother, deceased, which his 
father had held by curtesy ;® and in 1277 he was holding a knight’s 
fee in chief.° He had two daughters and coheirs, Isabel and Eve. 
Isabel married Thomas de Lucy, son of Alan de Multon by his 
wife Alice de Lucy ;4 and Eve married Alan son of John de Walking- 
ham. In 1279 Alan brought a case against Adam de Boltby to 
keep an agreement made between them relating to the manor of 
Boltby and 10 librates and 5 marks’ worth of land in Langley 


1 Br. of Fees, p. 202, which gives Adam de Tindale’s tenure and service 
in 1212. There is a pedigree of his family in Hodgson, Northumberland, 
part ii, vol. iii, p. 364, which is subject to amendment to the effect that he 
had two daughters and not a sole daughter and heir. 

2 Exc. e Rot. Fin., i, 244. > Bk. of Fees, p. S97. 

* totd., Op. Tilt, 1129. 

5 Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1257-1300, p. 176. 

6 The 10s. was evidently the rent granted there to Adam de Boltby 
in 1209 (see above). 

7 Cal. Ing. p.m., i, no. 824 ; Yorks. Ing., i, no. 72. 

8 Reg. Gray, p. 256. The relationship to the abp, perhaps through the 
Tindale family, is not known. It may be significant that among the tenants 
of Nicholas de Boltby in his barony of Langley in 1242-43 was a William 
de Gray (Bk. of Fees, p. 1130). 

9 Cal. Fine Rolls, 1272-1307, p. 2. 

1© 7b7d., p. 85. 
11 Complete Peerage, new ed., viii, 249. 


CHARTERS: RELATING TO;THEY KNIGHTS FEES 165 


and Allerwash (Halweley).1 On 4 Feb. 1281-2, after Adam’s death, 
orders were issued to deliver to Thomas de Lucy and Isabel his 
wife the manor of Langley whereof Adam had enfeoffed them, 
taken into the king’s hand on account of a contention between 
them and Alan de Walkingham and Eve his wife, saving to the 
latter their right when they wished to speak thereof.2 It appears 
that the barony of Langley, or the greater part of it, descended 
in the Lucy family ;3 and that the Yorkshire property, held of the 
Stuteville fee, was inherited by Eve. At the death of Baldwin 
Wake, shortly before 10 Feb. 1281-2 Alan de Walkingham held 
of him a knight’s fee in Boltby, Ravensthorpe and Thirlby.* At 
his own death shortly before 24 Dec. 1283 he held in Yorkshire, 
in addition to several lands (which included Cowthorpe) in his 
own right, the manor of Ravensthorpe with Eve his wife of [the 
heirs of] Sir Baldwin Wake; and in Northumberland land in 
Allerwash® in. chief which they had of the gift of Sir Adam de 
Boltby, her father ; his heir being Adam his son aged [?] 34 years.® 

On 6 May 1284 Eve widow of Alan de Walkingham, tenant 
in chief, was granted a licence to marry whomsoever she would 
for a fine of 8042.7 Her second husband was Richard Knoute, who 
with her held the immediate tenancy of the heirs of Baldwin Wake 
in Boltby, Ravensthorpe, Borrowby and Thirlby in 1284-85, 
Thirlby being held of them by Anora de Boltby in dower.® She 
married thirdly as his second wife Wiliam de Cantilupe, who 
was summoned to parliament from 1299 until his death in 1308.9 
As Eve de Cantilupe she was holding Boltby and Thirlby in 1316.1° 
It is evident that her son Adam de Walkingham died without 
surviving issue, for in 1346 her representative in Thirlby, Ravens- 
_ thorpe, and Boltby was Nicholas de Cantilupe, younger son and 
eventual heir of her third husband.” The tenancy of the Boltby 
fee descended in the Cantilupe family.¥ 


(1) BOLTBY 


89. Gift by Odo de Boltby, with the consent of his lord Robert de 
Stuteville [III] and Helewise his wife, and of the donor’s wife 
Juetta and of his heirs Adam, John and Jordan, to Rievaulx 
abbey of a portion of the waste below Hesketh adjoining Boltby ; 
and grant of easements of wood and common pasture in his 
three vills [of Boltby, Ravensthorpe and Thirlby]. [1142-45] 


1 Northumberland Assize Rolls, Surtees Soc. vol. lxxxviii, p. 248. 

2 Cal. Fine Rolls, 1272-1307, p. 158. 

3 Hodgson, Northumberland, loc. cit. 

* Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439. 

> A member of the barony of Langley, mentioned above. 

® [bid., Ao. 535; Yorks: Ing., u, No. 7. 

7 Cal. Fine Rolls, 1272-1307, p. 202. 

8 Feudal Aids, vi, 54. Anora was presumably the widow of Adam de 
Boltby. It is stated in the returns that the heirs of Baldwin Wake held of 
Roger de Mowbray ; but on this point see §4 above. 

° Complete Peerage, new ed., iii, 112. 10 Feudal Aids, vi, 175. 

tl Tbid., p. 246. 12 Complete Peerage, iii, 113. 
13 [bid., et seq., where there are several references to Ravensthorpe. 


166 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 49Y (old f. 45%). 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 86. 

Odo de Boltebia universis sancte matris ecclesie filiis salutem. 
Notum sit omnibus vobis me dedisse et concessisse domino meo 
Roberto de Stulta uilla et domina mea uxore ejus Helewis concedentibus 
concessu etiam et consilio Juete uxoris mee et heredum meorum, Adam 
scilicet, Johannis, Jordani, Deo et sancte Marie Rieuallfis] et 
fratribus ibidem Deo servientibus, pro salute anime mee et uxoris mee 
Juete et animarum patrum nostrorum et matrum, pro salute etiam 
domini mei Roberti de Stulta villa et uxoris ejus Helewis domine mee 
et omnium antecessorum nostrorum, in perpetuum tenere in pace et 
honorifice et libere et quiete ab omni terreno servitio et omnibus 
consuetudinibus unam partem deserti subtus Hesteschait adjacentis 
Boltebie his terminis adsignatam : a parte orientali et australi subtus 
montem sicut Rutendesic fluit supra montem sicut via ducit de Mortun 
ad Boltebia[m] ita ut quicquid infra eandem viam continetur in bosco 
et plano suum sit de terra de Boltebia’ per divisas de Stutekelde et de 
Mortun; a parte vero aquilonali et occidentali subtus montem per 
rivulum qui vocatur Haichouedsic usque ad aquam in valle fluentem 
et per eam usque ad locum illum ubi aqua? a proprio cursu extrahitur 
et inde ultra aquam ad supercilium montis et inde subtus montem sicut 
clausura descendit ad aquam ubi Rutendesic eandem aquam intrat. 
Preterea concedo predictis fratribus in tribus villis meis aisiamenta 
sua in bosco et in plano, scilicet materiem lignorum et communem 
pasturam sicut liberius et quietius habeo ad meum opus proprium. 
Roberto de Stulta villa teste et Waltero Espec, Jordano de Buissi, 
Rogero abbate de Begland’, Roberto de Daiuilla, Stephano de Wildecher, 
Drogone de Har[um], Waltero de Stutechelde, VIlkil forest[ario], 
Elswaldo? filio Acer, Tanchardo fratre ejus, Archill[o] de Rauenestorp, 
Gaufrido fratre Odonis, Liolfo parment[ario], Siwardo de Boltebi, 
Alano de Boltebi, Odone filio Uironis,* Nigello, Hugone Boneface, 
Briano clerico, Adam. 


This is evidently the gift of the donor which is described in the con- 
firmation charter of Henry II, 1154-57, as ‘wastum de Hesteskeith’,* and 
more fully in that of Richard I as ‘terram et wastinam de subtus Hestescaith 
et communem pasturam de Boltebi et de Ravenestorp et Trillebi’.6 As ina 
list of benefactions Odo’s gift of Hestelscait with its appurtenances is said 
to have been made to abbot William,’ who died in 1145,8 that can be taken 
as the latest date for the present charter. As Roger abbot of Byland wit- 
nessed the earliest date is 1142.9 Hesketh grange is marked on the 1” map 
about $ mile n.e. of Boltby, south of the road leading from Boltby to Murton 
and Hawnby. The boundary on the n.w. of the road was Lunshaw beck 
which is the water ‘‘flowing 1n the valley’, as the charter says. The name 
Stutekeld, from which one of the witnesses took his name, is now lost, but 
that of Haichouedsic (oak-head syke) is preserved in the name Haggit Hill.!° 


1 Boltebie, MS. 2 aquam, M.S. SAS06. 
* OrlIuronis. ° Rievaulx Chartulary, p. 143. © Ibid., pp. 124, 125. 
7 [bid., p. 260. oid. ps Trcxteinc: 


Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxviii, 10. 
10 Place-Names of N.R., Eng. Place-Name Soc., p. 198. 


CHARTERS REEATING TO THE KNIGHTS FPEE> 167 


This charter is cited (nos. 91-2) as having had the seal of Robert de 
Stuteville attached to it. 


90. Gift by Adam de Boltby, with the consent of Judit his mother 
and of John and Jordan his brothers, to Rievaulx abbey of land 
between the abbey’s land [of Hesketh] and “Guthalgillesiche’. 

[1154-60] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 50V (old f. 46%). 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 77. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filliis Adam de Boltebi salutem. 
Sciatis me dedisse et presenti carta confirmasse Deo et ecclesie sancte 
Marie de Rieualle et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus in puram et 
perpetuam elemosinam illam terram que est inter terram eorum et 
Guthalgillesiche. Hoc feci concessu domine et matris mee Judit et 
fratrum meorum Johannis et Jordani ut teneant ipsam elemosinam 
liberam et quietam ab omni servitio et consuetudine et exactione 
seculari. His testibus, Engelram decano, Willelmo clerico de Kirkabi, 
Waltero de Malt[ona], Rainaldo de Steingrif, Rad[ulfo] de Houingam, 
Ricardo capellano, Briano clerico, Waltero, magistro Samuele scriba, 
Willelmo de Camb’, Willelmo filiot Drogonis et Henrico de Steingrif. 


It can be presumed that this gift was the ‘augmentum quod fecit vobis 
Adam filius ejusdem Odonis’ included after the gift of Odo de Bolthebi in 
the confirmation of pope Alexander II], 2! Nov. 1160.2 As there is no 
mention of it in Henry II’s confirmation, 1154-57,? whereas land given 
by Adam is duly recorded in that of Richard I,* it is unlikely that it was 
made before the former of these was issued. 

The first witness, described as the [rural] dean of Ryedale and Pickering 
Lythe, issued a charter to Rievaulx abbey (no. 131). 


91. Final concord at Doncaster before the king’s justices between 
Rievaulx abbey and Adam de Boltby relating to the pasture of 
Boltby, Ravensthorpe and Thirlby, by which Adam confirmed 
to the abbey all the land which his father [Odo de Boltby] had 
given in Boltby by a charter sealed by Robert de Stuteville, his 
own lord; and granted pasture for 400 sheep therein and other 
beasts specified in detail. 8 Sept. 1178. 

Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 68V (old f. 64V), 
Pd. in Rievaulzx Chartulary, no. 112. 

Hec est finalis concordia que facta fuit apud Danecastr[iam] in 
Nativitate beate Marie Virginis anno xxiiij® regni Henrici regis secundi 
coram Hugone Murdac et Johanne Cumin’ et Johanne filio Luce et 
Randulfo de Glanuill’ et Bertram de Verd[{un] et Willelmo filio Aldel[ini] 

~et Michaele Belet et Willelmo de Bending[es] et Roberto Poher’ et 


EUS, MS 2 Rievaulx Chartulary, p. 186. 

3 [bid., p. 143, where Odo’s gift is included. * 1oid., p. 126. 

> xxxliij in the pd. text in error. It is not unlikely that in view of 
this error Farrer assigned 1188 as the date of a charter witnessed by six of 
the above justices (E.Y.C., ii, no. 807). That such a date is impossible is 
proved, if for no other reason, by the fact that John Cumin became abp 


of Dublin in 1182. 


168 STUTEVILLE FEE 


aliis justiciis domini regis qui tunc ibi aderant inter monachos de 
Rieualle et Adam de Boltebia de pastura de Boltebia et de Rauenestorp’ 
et de Trillebia unde placitum erat inter eos, scilicet quod predictus 
Adam concessit prenominatis monachis totam terram quam pater suus 
eis dedit in Boltebia per easdem divisas que continentur in carta patris 
sui cui dependet sigillum Roberti de Stuteuill’ domini predicti Ade. 
Concessit etiam prefatus Adam prenominatis monachis pasturam 
sufficientem cccc. ovibus in pastura de Boltebia et de Rauenestorp’ et 
de Trillebia ubique pascendis ubi dominica averia ipsius Ade et hom1- 
num suorum pascunt et ad pasturam illam adeundam liberum habebunt 
introitum et exitum ita quod predicti monachi non ponent in pre- 
nominata pastura plures quam cccc. oves. Idem etiam monachi habe- 
bunt in eadem pastura quatuor carrucatas boum unamquamque de 
viij. bobus et xxxij. vaccas cum secta et exitu earum et duos tauros et 
vj. equos et vj. sues cum exitibus earum ita quod tota secta et exitus 
predictarum vaccarum et porcorum removeantur a pastura illa in fine 
cujusque anni. Habebunt etiam alia aisiamenta per totum boscum 
predicti Ade de mairemio et busco cum mensura sicut ipse Adam ad 
opus suum proprium et sicut continetur in carta patris sui cui dependet 
sigillum Roberti de Stuteuill’ domini ipsius Ade. 


92. Charter of Adam de Boltby giving effect to the final concord 

(no. 91); made and read before the king’s justices at Doncaster. 

¢.. & Sept. 1178. 
Rievaulx Chartulary,.Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 69Y (old f. 65Y). 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 113. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis tam presentibus quam 
futuris Francis et Anglis Adam de Bolthebi salutem. Noverit universitas 
vestra me dedisse et concessisse Deo et sancte Marie de Rieualle et 
monachis Deo ibidem servientibus pro salute anime patris mei et 
matris mee et anime mee et uxoris mee et antecessorum meorum totam 
terram quam Odo de Bolthebi pater meus eis dedit in territorio de 
Bolthebeia et per easdem divisas que continentur in carta patris mel 
cui sigillum Roberti de Stuteuilla domini mei dependet et pasturam 
sufficientem cccc. ovibus in pastura de Boltebi et de Rauenestorp et 
de Trillebia ubique pascendis ubi dominica averia mea et hominum 
meorum pascuntur. Et concedo eisdem monachis ad pasturam illam 
adeundam liberum introitum et exitum habendum ita quod ipsi monachi 
non ponent in predicta pastura plures quam cccc. oves. Item concedo 
eisdem monachis habendum in prenominata pastura quatuor carru- 
catas boum unamquamque de viij'® bobus et xxxij. vaccas cum secta 
et exitu earum et ij. tauros et vj. equos et vj. sues cum exitibus earum 
ita quod tota secta et exitus predictarum vaccarum et porcorum 
removeantur a pastura illa in fine cujusque anni. Habebunt etiam ipsi 
monachi alia aisiamenta per totum boscum meum de meiremio et 
bosco cum mensura sicut ego ipse ad opus meum proprium et sicut 
continetur in carta patris mei quam ipsi monachi ex patre meo habent 
cui sigillum Roberti de Stuteuilla domini mei dependet. Hec omnia 
Deo et eisdem monachis de Rieualle dono et concedo in puram et 
perpetuam elemosinam liberam et quietam ab omni terreno servitio 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 169 


et seculari exactione et hac presenti carta confirmo. His testibus, 
Hugone Murdac, Johanne Cumino, Johanne filio Luce, Rannulfo de 
Glanuill’, Bertramo de Verdun’, Wililelmo filio Aldelini, Michaele 
Belet, Willelmo de Bennigas, Roberto le Puher, justiciis domini 
regis qui tunc apud Donecastriam aderant quando hec carta facta et 
coram eis lecta fuit. Teste, Fulcone Painel, Radulfo clerico Walteri 
de Custance, magistro Stephano et Godefrido clericis domini regis de 
scriptorio, Adam filio Petri, Richero de Walesand, Adam filio Orm, 
Rainero dapifero Rannulfi de Glanuill’, Willelmo! de Etona, Willelmo 
de Rurdestain. 


(ii) BORROWBY 


93. Gift by Ralph son of Uctred de Borrowby, with the assent of 
his lord William de Stuteville and of his own sons Roger, Richer 
and Nicholas, to Rievaulx abbey of 11 acres of meadow in the 
territory of Borrowby intermixed with the meadows of the 
bishop of Durham, and extending to Cod beck; and liberty to 
carry a spring of water through his land to the abbey grange of 
Crosby. [1183-1203] 

MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 139, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. Pd. (incompletely) in Rievaulx Chartulary, 
no. 320, from Dodsworth. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Radulfus filius Huctredi de 
Bergebi salutem. Sciatis me dedisse et hac presenti carta mea con- 
firmasse Deo et ecclesie sancte Marie de Rieualle et monachis ibidem 
Deo servientibus pro salute anime mee et omnium parentum et heredum 
meorum cum assensu et bona voluntate Willelmi de Estuteuilla domini 
mei et Rogeri et Richerii et Nicolai filiorum meorum in liberam et 
perpetuam elemosinam undecim acras prati in territorio de Berghebi 
que jacent in septem locis inter prata domini episcopi Dunelmensis et 
tendunt in longum usque ad Cotesbec; tenendas in perpetuum liberas 
et quietas ab omni terreno servitio et exactione seculari. Preterea dedi 
et concessi eis fontem et aquam quam duxerunt per terram meam per 
conductum ad grangiam eorum de Crossebi; tenendum cum ipso 
conductu in perpetuum et emendandum libere quotiens opus fuerit. 
Et ego et heredes mei adquietabimus et warentizabimus hec omnia 
predictis monachis contra omnes homines in perpetuum. Hiis testibus, 
Ernaldo de Upsale, Gaufrido Fossart, Gaufrido de Boscowill[elm]i, 
Johanne clerico de Hamesthuait, Andrea de Magnebi, Roberto filio 
Guum, Henrico clerico, Britone, Roberto Borart, Henrico Foliot, 
Roberto Norrais. 


Cod beck flows about a mile on the west side of Borrowby, and Crosby 
grange lies just beyond it. The limits of date are those of William de Stute- 
ville’s tenure of the fee in. chief. 

A carucate in Borrowby, where the greater portion of the vill formed 
a member of the bishop of Durham’s fee,* was held by the family of Borrowby 
as an under-tenancy of the Boltby fee. In 1284-85 Michael de Borrowby 

1 Not Waltevo as in the pd. text. 

2 Feudal Aids, vi, 56. 


170 STUTEVILLE FEE 


(Berheby) held a carucate there of the heirs of Ravensthorpe.’ In 1346 a 
younger Michael de Borrowby held land there formerly held by Roger de 
Borrowby.? The family was succeeded by that of Buscy.? 


$8. THE ‘CORDANVILLED PEE 


The knight’s fee held by Peter de Cordanvill of Robert de 
Stuteville III in 1166 lay in Sherburn, wap. Buckrose in the 
East Riding. It can be identified as the knight’s fee pertaining 
to the manor of Buttercrambe which in 1282 was held in Sherburn 
by John de Vescy of Baldwin Wake.* 

At the Domesday survey, apart from the 3 carucates in 
Sherburn which formed a berewick of the archbishop’s manor of 
Weaverthorpe, 9 carucates there, forming a berewick of the 
manor of Langton, were held by Hugh son of Baldric, and 6 
carucates by the count of Mortain.® It can be supposed that 
Hugh son of Baldric’s interest in Sherburn, which presumably 
passed to Robert de Stuteville I, was among the lands restored to 
Robert de Stuteville III as a tenancy-in-chief. 

Apart from his tenure in 1166 and his gifts to Guisborough 
priory of the church of Sherburn with half a carucate of land 
and tithe (nos. 94-5), practically nothing seems to be known of 
Peter de Cordanville; nor is there any clue to his relationship to 
Adam de Cordanville of Sherburn who occurs at a later date 
(no. 96). Peter’s charter to Guisborough (no. 94) shows that he 
held a carucate of land in Ugthorpe, par. Lythe in the North 
Riding, of Wiliam de Hamby. Apparently in 1161 William de 
Hamby demised 2 carucates in Ugthorpe to Guisborough, his 
charter being witnessed by Alan de Munceus ‘dominus et testis’.® 
In Ugthorpe, where at the Survey 4 carucates were terra regis,” 
the feudal chain in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries was 
extensive and complex. Peter de Cordanville’s interest was low 
down in the hierarchy of tenures there ; and there is evidence 
that the family of Monceaux, of whom Wiliam de Hamby held 
his land, held their fee in Ugthorpe of the family of Argentom.® 
After Peter’s death William de Argentum confirmed to Guis- 
borough priory his gift of a carucate in Ugthorpe.® 

It is significant that both in Ugthorpe and Sherburn an 
interest was held by the family of Everingham, and it seems 
likely that it was to that family that the Cordanville interest 
passed. In 1202 Robert de Everingham was vouched to warranty 
by the prior of Guisborough in respect of 3 carucates and 3 bovates 

1 Feudal Aids, vi, 56, 1.ec. of the heirs of Adam de Boltby, lord of 
Ravensthorpe. 

2 Ibid., p. 246. 2 Vad: , UN dt, Bea. 

+ Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439. 5 ViC.H. Vorks., ii, pp. 212, 277, 325. 

© ELM |Cay, Ay INO. 619 ; presumably these included the carucate given to 
Guisborough by Peter de Cordanville. 

TOV XO.da. Yores., i, LOO. 

5 Guisborough Chartulary, ii, no. 955 ; another charter (no. 964) suggests 
that Ugthorpe in whole or part had become a member of the ‘honour of 
Holderness. 9 BLY 3G. at ae. FSS, 


> ol Toe 


- A ey r ‘ : i - 3 ae 5 oS a 9 Ae 

2 Dy eee - : Po 3 ' ' ‘ - at 7 : . . : 
: ; ‘em 20° 4 ; ¢ 
; PS aed ae ns - 7 7 - i o> - As! 7 


EE a dt es ea 


a op, Bye +3 


: n : : ve we 7 or : 
re “at 7 — 7 an 
ie Sir os 7 las ; = - —o_ 
> 
oT oe 


> an uM iy 5 ; 
re ; i. : 6 i-4 3 ‘on ; : : bd ries a Ai 
= a by ow , 
eas 4 - 
Lite, 2. 
7 : 7 

~ 7 


i 
‘ 


a 


PLATE Vil 


“ut $€ £q {9 221 


os v4 gf 
 ” of 


ee 


Neate 


Sanoryn snidyy Sy AU Gavppdes Ganav(’y rere : 
ie pagans sone hk - nga 
sind si ap FELON 2 HHURY eprom ME Jp oye 


pin Ko : pyri. Me Yatonare Ip 1 [Hanging 9g : 1 ‘. CRM 
ee AP my Hogg 7 Say BS Mw pn AA 
v ype ara Ne 6 Vian ne oy 


4 
Z 


CHARTERS RELATING TO-THE KNIGHTS’ FEES a 


in Ugthorpe ;! and with the assent of Hawise his wife he demised 
to the priory 2 carucates of land there which he had held of 
William de Argenton.? The family’s interest in Sherburn is shown 
by the quitclaim to Guisborough priory made on 15 June 1279 by 
Sir Adam de Everingham of all right in half a carucate of land 
and in the advowson of the church,’ z.e. the gift originally made 
by Peter de Cordanville ; and by his grandson’s holding in 1302-03 
of 91 carucates there. There is no satisfactory clue to the passing 
of the Cordanville interest to the family of Everingham ;° nor 
can any reason be given for the tenure of the knight’s fee in 
Sherburn by John de Vescy in 1282, unless it has some bearing on 
his tenure of the manor of Langton, of which land in Sherburn 
had formed a berewick in 1086. His superior tenure in Sherburn 
is shown by the statement that Robert son of Adam de Evering- 
ham at his death in 1287 held the manor of Sherburn of Sir John 
de Vescy for a knight’s fee.§ 


SHERBURN 


94. Gift by Peter de Cordanville, with the consent of his lord Robert 
de Stuteville, to Guisborough priory of the church of Sherburn 
with half a carucate of land and the houses adjacent; and the 
tithe of his mills of Sherburn. Also gift of a carucate of land in 
Ugthorpe [par. Lythe] which he held of William de Hamby, 
for a yearly rent of 8s. Surrender of the undertaking made to 
him by the priory for the reception of a canon. [c. 1150-80] 

PLATE VII 
Original charter, B.M. Stowe Ch. 479. Pd. in Guisborough Chartu- 

lavy, no. 963, from Cotton MS. Cleopatra D. ii, f. 324V. 
Notum sit omnibus audituris litteras istas quod ego Petrus de 
Cordauilla consensu domini mei Roberti de Stutauilla et consilio 
amicorum meorum dedi et concessi ecclesie sancte Marie de Giseburg 
et fratribus ibidem Deo seruientibus in perpetuam et liberam et 
quietam elemosinam ab omnibus seruitiis ecclesiam de Sciraburna 
cum dimidia carucata terre et mansis adiacentibus de me et heredibus 
meis tenendam. Huius concessionis mee et donationis teste est capi- 
tulum sancti Petri Ebor[acensis]. Dedi etiam eidem ecclesie in per- 


1 Yorks. Fines, John, p. 77. 

2 Guisborough Chartulary, li, no. 957. 

3 Tbid., no. 9634, from MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 42V. 

* Feudal Aids, vi, 154, part of a holding of 14 car., and separate from 
the 3 car. of the archbishop’ s fee which correspond to the abp’s holding of 
that amount in 1086. The 14 car. are given as of the Mowbray fee. This is 
difficult to explain in view of the Stuteville tenancy-in-chief in 1166. It 

. may be that part of the 14 car., which seem to correspond approximately 
to the combined holdings of 15 car. by Hugh son of Baldric and the count 
of Mortain in 1086, belonged to the Mowbray fee, and that the jurors 
supposed that they did so in their entirety. 

5 Farrer in his E.Y.C. MS. for Stuteville suggested that the Everingham 
interest may have arisen through Ragenilda, apparently the wife of Thomas 
father of Robert de Everingham. In 1194 she owed 20s. for the right of 
the arrears of her dower against Robert de Everingham (Pipe Roll 6 Ric. J, 
Pp: to). ® Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 638. 


72 STUTEVILLE FEE 


petuam elemosinam decimam molendinorum meorum de Schirab[urna]. 
Item eidem dedi ecclesie unam carucatam terre in Ugathorp . de me 
et heredibus meis tenendam . illam uidelicet quam tenui de Willelmo 
de Hambi . liberam et quietam ab omnibus seruitiis preter octo solidos 
annuatim soluendos. Remisi etiam eis conuentionem illam de canonico 
suscipiendo quam mihi pepigerunt. Huius donationis mee illius 
carucate terre in Ugathorp . et decimarum de molendinis meis . et 
remissionis de canonico . testes sunt isti. Ricardus capellanus . Martinus 
capellanus . Radulfus filius Roberti . Willelmus filius Fulconis . et 
Thomas frater eius . Rogerus prepositus . Ricardus filius Tocce . et 
Walterus frater eius . Suain Pethun . Radulfus uicarius . Robertus 
clericus. 


Seal missing. 


The gift ‘ex dono Petri de Cordavilla ecclesiam de Schireburna cum 
dimidia carucata terre et decimam molendinorum suorum in Schireburna 
et unam carucatam in Uggethorp’ was included in king Henry II’s con- 
firmation charter to the priory, 1176-86.1 

The charter by which Peter’s gift in Ugthorpe was confirmed by 
William de Argentum after his death (see above), is dated by Farrer as. 
1175-85. The latest date for the present charter is 1183 as Robert de Stute- 
ville III was alive. The later clauses suggest that it was issued as a 
comprehensive instrument subsequently to no. 95. 


95. Notification by Robert the dean and the chapter of St. Peter’s, 
York, that Peter de Cordanville had confirmed in their presence 
his gift to Guisborough priory of the church of Sherburn with 
half a carucate of land, the priory granting that he and his heirs 
should nominate a clerk of eighteen years of age in good condition 
to be received as a canon on each vacancy in the priorate; and 
that Robert the clerk had withdrawn the claim which he had 
in the church. [c. 1150-70] 

PLATE VIII 
Original charter, B.M. Stowe Ch. 480. 2 


Rodbertus decanus et capitulum sancti Petri Eboracensis 
omnibus uidentibus et audientibus literas istas salutem et benedictionem. 
Notum sit uobis Petrum de Cordeluilla recognouisse et confirmasse in 
presencia nostra ecclesiam Syreburne cum dimidia carrucata terre se 
dedisse et concessisse in liberam et perpetuam elemosinam ecclesie et 
conuentui Gyseburnie. Concessit autem illi conuentus eiusdem loci 
se in canonicum recepturos clericum . xviij. annorum sanum et in- 
columem quem ille uel heredes illius uoluerint unum post alium ex 
quo prior discesserit in perpetuum. Rodbertus uero clericus calump- 
niam et querelam quam habebat in ecclesiam illam in manu decani 
deposuit et refutauit. Test[ibus] . magistro Laurencio . Radulfo de 
Sancta Columba . Thoma Sotauag[ina] . Willelmo filio Tosti . Serlo 
can[onico] . Thebbald . Robf[erto]. 


The word Cirographvm cut through at the top. 


t BY Wx die nO: G75: 
2 Not entered in the Guisborough Chartulary. 


PLATE-VIill 


‘ul $z Aq $6 921g $6 ‘ON 


OF yee 


peg 29? tt wer Ot w - ee ee ST ae ‘ 
i sdiiiaiet iit i com are me -yqno TIP. FINI’Y ‘otmainvy cay Tea y21 23 _ 
— *9y pueae cosy as Yon ony opquny Sawres OLRM LA 3° O Bevaneany 
a bariyodsy weg navus uiweyy? So Bt AMPA] LO Fever vide wp opaated 5 
——setrnadctua a2aoparyig 294 BG aanyed eran anne aauyon sq! 59094428 5 ak donaed ee ie deme ecko | 
+ Su GRataap joamadaris nowuowey} 2) Boy wagy julanNe> Hp AANvAT Pade) -IuLsngashy UA 
© wanes gps payouts yraaddaygn :zpbI Ney 24g" ITD BeynsaL were xo aan 
AAs uILp2 Enyou vouajaad wiajgeuraije?2 prLouhorad VT] }EReO) 20 narad pqonais mo 
jaunghes qunsgre yung -survag od ys an Avr Beagagory | 


‘WMOTIICIUIYS AVS JEYIED] qu sy ” 
in A Se 


<< 


“* 4 


CHARTERS RELATING TO JHE KNIGHTS’ FEES 173 


It is probable that the first five witnesses were members of the chapter ; 
and it may be that canonicis rather than canonico is intended for the word 
after Serlo. The dates when these men occur as canons show a long period 
of tenure for some of them.! Ralph de St. Columba occurs as early as 
c. 1121-1128 ;? and he and Thomas Sotwame occur together in 1138-42 
and 1153-543 Thomas Sotwame and master Laurence occur together in 
1149-53.4 The dates for William son of Tosti, however, suggest some such 
period as 1150-80. It seems likely, therefore, that the charter was 
issued in the period assigned above, and early rather than late within those 
limits. The dean may be either Robert de Gant or Robert Butevilain, and 
more probably the former. 


96. Gift by Adam de Cordanville of Sherburn to Malton priory of 
a bovate of land and a toft in Sherburn. [ante 1246] 


Malton Chartulary, Cotton MS. Claudius D. xi, f. 146V. 


Omnibus Christi fidelibus visuris vel audituris has literas Adam 
de Cordauile de Skireburn in Hauerfordlid salutem. Noveritis me 
divine pietatis intuitu et fraterne dilectionis respectu concessisse 
dedisse et hac presenti carta mea confirmasse Deo et beate [Marie]° 
et conventui confratrum meorum de Veteri Malton’ unam bovatam 
terre in territorio de Skireburn’ in Hauerfordlid cum uno tofto in 
eadem villa cum omnibus pertinenciis suis et libertatibus et aisiamentis 
infra villam et extra cum pratis et pascuis et pasturis et in ouenham® 
ubicunque acciderit, unam scilicet de duabus bovatis terre quas Adam 
clericus aliquando tenuit de me, illam scilicet que jacet propinquior 
orienti, illum itaque toftum qui est propinquior tofto Ricardi de 
Riuario versus aquilonem; tenendos et habendos de me et heredibus 
meis in puram et perpetuam elemosinam pacifice libere et quiete ab 
omni seculari servicio et exaccione ad me et ad heredes meos pertinente. 
Et ego Adam de Cordauile et heredes mei warantizabimus prenominatam 
bovatam cum tofto predicto conventui in perpetuum contra omnes 
homines ab omnibus secularibus serviciis et consuetudinibus et ex- 
accionibus. Huis t[estibus], etc. 


Robert son of Robert de Eueringham, for the health of himself and 
Isabel his wife, confirmed this bovate with the toft of the gift of Adam de 
Cordauile (f. 147). This Robert de Everingham the younger died in 1246.7 

Another reference to the grantor is given in a charter of Ingenald son 
of Henry de Willerby to Bridlington priory, giving an acre in Willerby, 
wap. Dickering, adjacent to land formerly belonging to Adam de Cordavilla 
of Sherburn.? Willerby (a member of the Gant fee) is only separated from 
Sherburn by the parish of Ganton. 


1 The following details are based on their occurrence in E.Y.C., vols. 
i-il1 ; see the index volume thereto. 

26 VC. Vy NO. 936, 3 [bid., ili, nos. 1313-4, 1476. 

+ lbid« 1, ROnG?. 

> Omitted in MS. 

6 An intake ; cf. ‘avenama’ in Medieval Latin Word-list. 

7 Complete Peerage, new ed., v, 184n. The reference shows that there 
were two Roberts who succeeded Thomas de Everingham, and not one as 
m £.Y-C., Siny ps 386. 

8 Bridlington Chartulary, p. 113. 


174 STUTEVILLE FEE 


so, THE CAPTOPRT PEE 


Roger de Cnapetot held 11 bovates for an eighth part of 
a knight’s fee of the new feoffment of Robert de Stuteville III in 
1166. These lay in Barnby, par. Bossall, where land formed part 
of the 7 carucates there and in Bossall and Buttercrambe as a 
berewick belonging to the manor of Scrayingham, held by Hugh 
son of Baldric at the Domesday survey.t In 1282 Reginald de 
Captoft held of Baldwin Wake an eighth of a fee in Barnby.? 
Several references are available to members of the family, but 
they are insufficient to establish the descent.® 

Thus a Reiner or Reginald de Capetot or Capetoft witnessed 
a charter of Robert de Stuteville III to Rievaulx abbey, c. 1160- 
1183 (no. 10); another charter dated 1166 ;4 a charter of William 
de Stuteville, 1175-85,° and others of his in the period 1190-1203 
(nos. 26, 27, 29). He or another Reginald de Capetoft witnessed 
a Cawton charter (no. 77), and others printed m the present 
volume. A Reginald de Capetot’ or Capetoft occurs as a knight 
in Yorkshire in 1203, and witnessed a charter dated 1205.7 Roger 
de Kap[toft} occurs as a witness c. 1190-1199, and as Roger de 
Capetot as a knight in Yorkshire in 1200.9 In 1246 Reginald de 
Capetoft and Helewise his wife gave Geoffrey de Upsall lands in 
South Kilvington and Thornbrough in that parish ;!° and in 1302-03 
the ‘heir of Captoft’ held half a carucate of the Vescy fee in Swan- 
land and North Ferriby.™ 


S10. TH BOSSALL FEE 


In 1282 it was recorded that among the knights’ fees per- 
taining to the manor of Buttercrambe, held by Baldwin Wake, 
was a holding by John de Bossall of three-quarters of a knight’s 
fee in Bossall and Claxton in that parish. This holding evidently 
included the 24 carucates which at the Domesday survey formed 
a berewick of the manor of Scrayingham, held by Hugh son of 
Baldric, and in addition part of the 3 carucates in Barnby, par. 
Bossall, also a berewick of the same manor; and the interest in 
Claxton perhaps consisted of the carucate held there by the 


1 V.C.H. Yorks., ii, 276; the allocation given by Farrer being Barnby 
3 car., Bossall 24 car., Buttercrambe 14 car.; for the first two these were 
the amounts in 1346 (Feudal Aids, vi, 244). 
2 Cal. Ing. p.m., li, no. 439. 
3 The name may be derived from Knaptoft, co. Leicester ; but proof 
is lacking ; though it is perhaps significant or only a coincidence that a 
meadow there was called ‘Cotyngham’ meadow (Nichols, Leicestershire, iv, 
217). The alternative forms Capetoft and Cnapetoft occur in different MSS. 
for a Leicestershire case in 1200 (Curia Regis Rolls, i, 321). 
BOY G.; i nO. 71S. 
5 Ibid., i, no. 504. 
® Curia Regis Rolls, ii, 68. 
t EY C.,/i, BO. 789, 
8 Ihid., 1, no. S51. 
9 Curia Regis Rolls, i, 251. 
10 Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 159. 11 Feudal Aids, vi, 152. 
12 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 175 


count of Mortain.! It can be deduced that the three-quarters of a 
knight’s fee was created subsequently to 1166 by a feoffment 
made for the most part from the demesne lands pertaining to 
Buttercrambe. 

The earliest recorded member of the Bossall family appears 
to be Norman de Bossall who witnessed a feoffment to Robert 
de Stuteville III of land in Ingleby Greenhow in a charter dated 
1166 ;2 and also a charter of Robert de Stuteville III, c. 1170- 
1183 (no. 16), and one by which William de Stuteville confirmed 
Cayton to Fountains abbey, 1175-85.2 He was probably the 
predecessor, and perhaps father,4 of Richard de Bossall who 
witnessed two Beningbrough charters c. 1180-90,° and who 
acquired an interest in Ganton and Staxton by marriage. Richard’s 
wife was Maud daughter of Henry son of Richard de Ganton. 
Henry de Ganton confirmed a gift in Staxton which Richard his 
father made to Bridlington priory, 1180-1200.6 Maud de Ganton, 
described as daughter of Henry de Ganton and wife of Richard 
de Bossall gave an undertaking to her lord Richard de Percy 
with regard to her inheritance.? In 1206 Richard de Bossall and 
Maud his wife were parties to a fine of land in Ganton, the land 
being held in her right. The charter printed below shows that 
in 1234 she gave to Maud her granddaughter land in Staxton, which 
was confirmed by her heir Richard de Bossall (the younger), the 
donee’s father. In 1232 Maud de Ganton in her widowhood gave 
a carucate in Fordon® to Whitby abbey, which was confirmed on 
the same occasion by Richard de Bossall ;° the latter evidently 
being her son.- With Richard de Bossall her son and heir she also 
gave to St. Peter's hospital, York, a toit and creft in Ganton; 
which was confirmed by her (second) husband William Francigena 
of Ganton? 

t-) CH. YorRs., u, pp. 223; 276, 316-4, Ihe iterest im Barby is 
shown by the tenure in 1316 of William de Bossall in Barnby cum Bossall 
(Feudal Aids, vi, 177, where ‘Cossale’ is recte Bossale). Another interest in 
Barnby formed the Captoft fee (§9), and another small interest was the 
subject of an additional feoffment (see Chapter II). 

2 E.Y.C., ii, no. 718; and see the note to no. 13 above. 

3 Ibid., i, no. 504. 

* This.is more likely than a descent suggested in-V.C.H., N.#., 1, 92, 
from -Paulinus de Bossall who witnessed charters c. 1175-c. 1195, and 
1192-98 (E.Y.C., i, nos. 33, 636), and who with his wife Juliana was a 
party to a fine in 1202 (Yorks. Fines, John, p. 68). Paulinus was certainly 
not the father of Richard de Bossall II. 

3 -#.Y .C., 4, HOS, 550) 552. 

& foid., A, mo. 122), 

7 Percy Chartulary, no. 300. Ganton was a member of the Gant fee. 
In 1284-85 the heirs of John de Bossall held 3 car. there for + k.f. of Percy, 
who held of Gant (Feudal Aids, vi, 27). The Percy interest was due to the 
marriage of Alan de Percy to Emma dau. of Gilbert de Gant early in the 
12th cent. (£.Y.C., ii, pp. 430, 433). In 1175, when the partition of the 
Percy lands was made, Richard de Ganton was holding a knight’s fee 
(Percy Chartulary, no. 1092). 

8 Yorks. Fines, John, p. 102. 

° Close to Staxton on the south. 

10 Whitby Chartulary, i, nos. 175, 182. 
11 Guisborough Chartulary, ii, 302n, citing Dodsworth MS. cxxi B, f. 32V. 


176 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Richard de Bossall II occurs as the patron of the church of 
Bossall in 1225 and 1233, making a presentation of William de 
Stuteville, clerk, in 1231.1 He married Mabel daughter of a 
Robert de Stuteville (no. 97); and died before 5 Feb. 1237-8, when 
the patronage of the church was in the hands of dame Dervorguilla 
de Stuteville by reason of her custody of his land and heir.2 His 
successor was William de Bossall, still a minor in 1244.3 William 
de Bossall made gifts of land and privileges in Staxton to Brid- 
lington priory in 1256, naming his predecessor Henry de Ganton.4 
In 1257 he was granted free warren in his demesne lands in 
Bossall, Ganton and Staxton ;°> and as a knight witnessed an 
agreement made by dame Joan de Stuteville in 1269.6 He made 
a presentation to Bossall church on 10 Feb. 1269-70 ;? and in 1277 
he received a discharge of financial obligations in respect of his 
office of sheriff of Yorkshire in 1264 and 1265 which he had been 
hindered almost completely from exercising by reason of the 
disturbances. He must have died before 13 Jan. 1279-80 when 
an institution to Bossall church was made on the presentation of 
Sir John de Bossall, knt.,2 who was presumably his son and heir. 

John de Bossall’s tenure of the three-quarters of a knight’s 
fee in Bossall and Claxton in 1282 has been noted above. He 
died on or Detore 7 July of that year ; on 4 Sépty the escheator 
was ordered to take into the king’s hand the lands which he had 
held as a tenant-in-chief ;! and on 28 Oct. 1283 a grant was made 
of the wardship of his lands during the minority of his heirs. On 
10 April 1290 it was found by inquisition that Nicholas son and 
heir of John de Bossall had been born at Ganton on 29 Sept. 1268.12 

The family continued in the male line until the fifteenth 
century, when the interest in Bossall passed to Richard Redman, 
who has been identified as a younger son of Sir Richard Redman 
of Harewood and Elizabeth Aldburgh his wife. 


STAXTON 


97. Gift by Maud de Ganton to Maud daughter of Richard de 
Bossall by his wife Mabel daughter of Robert de Stuteville of 
land in Staxton, saving pasture to Bridlington priory in ac- 
cordance with the charters of Richard de Ganton and Henry 


1 Reg. Gray, pp. 5, 46, 63. 2 1dtd., p. Sl; 

3 Ibid., p. 94. * Bridlington Chartulary, p. 94. 
> Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1226-57, p. 471.. 

6 Reg. Giffard, p. 140. 7 Tbid., p. 46. 


8 Cal. Close Rolls, 1272-79, p. 371. He was appd. sheriff on 27 June 
1264 (Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1258-66, p. 327), and a justice in eyre for forest pleas 
in the northern counties on 25 Oct. 1270 (ibid., 1266-72, p. 468). 

° Reg. Wickwane, p. 53. 

10 So described as the tenancy-in-chief of Baldwin Wake was in the 
king’s hand in view of the minority of Baldwin’s heir. 

11 Cal. Fine Rolls, 1272-1307, pp. 168, 194. 

12 Cal. Ing. p.m., uu, no. 798 ; proof of age. 

43 VG ds, aN dtag ly Oa, 

14 Yorks. Deeds, iti, 89n. The Redman interest may have been: acquired: 
by marriage, but a proof is lacking. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES Vid 


his son; and confirmation by the said Richard de Bossall, her 
heir. 1 Nov. 1234. 


Bridlington Chartulary, Add. MS. 40008, f. 74 (old f. 71). Abst. 
in Bridlington Chartulary, p. 94. 

Anno Incarnacionis Domini M°cc°xxx“iiij. ad festum Omnium 
Sanctorum omnibus hoc scriptum visuris vel audituris Matildis de 
Galmeton’ salutem. Noveritis me in viduitate mea et libera potestate 
mea dedisse et concessisse et hac presenti carta mea confir[masse] 
Matildi filie Ricardi de Boszale et Mabille uxoris sue que Mabilla fuit 
filia Roberti de Stuteville duo tofta in Staxton’ scilicet Charnek’ et 
propinquior versus occidentem cum omnibus pertinenciis suis infra 
villam et extra. Dedieciam dicte Matildi totam terram que mea est 
et dare possum inter Fordon’ et Staxton’ que vocatur Depedale sine 
ullo retinemento cum omnibus pertinenciis suis et cum omnibus liber- 
tatibus et liberis consuetudinibus ad predictam terram pertinentibus, 
salva tanta pastura conventui de Brid[lingtona] quanta carte Ricardi de 
Galmeton’ et Henrici filii sui continent pro homagio et servicio suo; 
tenenda et habenda tam predicta tofta quam predictam terram sibi et 
heredibus suis de me et heredibus meis libere quiete honorifice et 
plenarie in omnibus locis cum omnibus libertatibus prenominatis, 
reddendo inde annuatim illa et heredes sui mihi et heredibus meis 
unam libram cymini scilicet ad festum sancti Nicholai pro omni servicio 
et exaccione et demanda seculari. Et ego dicta Matildis et heredes mei 
warantizabimus tam dicta tofta quam dictam terram dicte Matildi 
filie dicti Ricardi ut dictum est superius contra omnes homines et 
defendemus. Et ego Ricardus de Bozhale heres prim’ dicte Matildis 
hanc donacionem animo benivolenti bene concessi et sigillo meo 
-confirmavi. Hiis t[estibus], Roberto de Acclum, Henrico filio Radulfi, 
Ricardo le Bret, Henrico de Biningt[on], Henrico de Brumpton’, 
Ricardo de Bozhale, Dauid, Reginaldo de Langetoft, et alliis. 


Although Staxton did not form part of the Bossall tenancy of the 
Stuteville fee, the charter is included here to show the evidence for the 
Bossall-Stuteville marriage. On chronological grounds it can be supposed 
that Mabel daughter of Robert de Stuteville, who married Richard de 
Bossall II, was born c. 1190; but in the absence of other evidence it is 
unsafe to make any definite suggestion for the identification of her father. 
The only likely possibility seems to be the first Robert de Stuteville of 
Great Ayton ; but if so Mabel would have been a daughter by a first wife, 
for he did not marry Emma Malebisse until 1207.7 


Sit. THE LANGTON FEE 


In 1282 it was recorded that John de Vescy, in addition to 
the knight’s fee which he held in Sherburn (see §8), held a knight’s 
fee in Langton [E.R.], and that it was also appurtenant to the 
manor of Buttercrambe, held by Baldwin Wake.® 


1 An abbreviated text from another source, apparently the original, 
is pd. in Whitby Chartulary, i, 140n. 

2 See Chapter I, §5. 

3 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439. 


178 STUTEVILLE FEE 


At the Domesday survey Hugh son of Baldric held 39 caru- 
cates in the manor of Langton and its berewicks in five places ; 
and according to the Summary 18 carucates lay in Langton, and 
in the berewicks 9 carucates lay in Sherburn, 6 in Burdale, 3 in 
East Heslerton, 28 in Kennythorpe, and one in Raisthorpe.! 
here1s- clear ee that Robert de Stuteville I held an interest 
in Langton (see the note to charter no. 1); and Robert de Stute- 
ville III, whose daughter Burga had Langton as her maritagiwm 
when she married William de Vescy,? also possessed an interest. 

The interest of Burga de Stuteville in Langton, held by the 
service of a knight’s fee, thus passed to her Vescy descendants, of 
whom John de Vescy, the tenant in 1282, was her great-grandson. 
In 1208 a claim was made by Thurstan de Montfort, by reason of 
his descent from Juliana daughter of Geoffrey Murdac, against 
Eustace de Vescy (Burga’s son and heir) for a moiety of the vill 
of Langton’ In 1302-03 12 carucates in Langton, making a 
knight’s fee, were returned as of the Wake fee, of which Isabel 
de Vescy (widow of William de Vescy) held 10 carucates.* After 
the death at Bannockburn in 1314 of William de Vescy of Kildare, 
the bastard son of William de Vescy, who had been enfeoffed of 
considerable estates by his father, Thomas Wake petitioned the 
king for the reversion of the manor of Langton ;> and at the 
inquisition held in 1315, after the death of Isabel widow of William 
de Vescy the elder, it was found that she had held the manor of 
Langton in dower of the heir of John Wake by knight-service.® 

There is nothing in these references to suggest that the 
Wake tenure was otherwise than a tenure-in-chief ; and in the 
inquisition held after the death of Joan de Stuteville, mother of 
Baldwin Wake, in 1276 it was recorded that she held Cottingham, 
Buttercrambe, Scrayingham and Langton of the king in chief by 
the service of 3 knights, of which John de Vescy held the manor 
of Langton.? But in an inquisition held in 1301 after the death 
of Roger de Mowbray it is stated that among his Yorkshire lands 
were Langton and Wintringham held by William de Vescy of 

1 YV.C.H. Yorks., ii, pp. 277, 324-5 ; two churches (probably Langton 
and Sherburn), two priests and a mill are mentioned ; and also a tenant of 
Hugh named Goisfrid. Farrer suggested (zbid., p. 178) that the latter was 
perhaps Geoffrey de Stuteville ; but there is no proof of that (cf. p. 2n 
above); and any suggestion that he was Geoffrey Murdac, whose descendant, 
Thurstan de Montfort, made the claim to a moiety of ‘the vill in 1208, is 
rendered unlikely, as Farrer noticed (zbid.), by the fact that in Kettleby 
Thorpe, co. Lincoln, which was held by Geoffrey Murdac at the Lindsey 
survey, Hugh son of Baldric’s man in 1086 was not named Goisfrid, but 
Gilbert (Lincs. Domesday, Lincoln Rec. Soc., p. 117; and see §2 above). 

2 For her parentage see p. 8 above, and for her marriage the charter 
printed in this section. 

3 See Chapter I, app. A. * Feudal Aids, vi, 157. 

5 Cal. Ing. p.m., v, no. 534; in this petition it is stated that Robert 
de Stuteville gave the manor to Eustace de Vescy and Bourge his dau. in 
frank-marriage, Eustace being certainly an error for William de Vescy. 

6 [bid., no. 535. 

7 Tbid., ii, no. 195; and cf. the statement in the inq. after the death 


of Thomas Wake of Liddel in 1349 that the manor of Langton was held in 
chief for 1 k.f. (ibid., ix, no. 219). : 


CHARTERS REEATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES E79 


Kildare by the service of 2 knights’ fees It is probable that 
Langton was included then in error with other Vescy tenures of 
the honour of Mowbray ; and the history of Langton, so far as it 
can be deduced, suggests that it was not given to Nigel d’Aubigny 
with other forfeited lands of Robert de Stuteville I, but that it 
was recovered by Robert de Stuteville III as a tenancy-in-chief 
together with the manor of Cottingham. That the knight’s fee in 
Langton was not included in the latter’s carta in 1166 can be 
explained by the supposition that Burga’s marriage had not 
taken place. As her son Eustace was born in the period 1169-71 
(note to no. 98) it can be suggested that the date of the marriage 
and the gift of Langton took place in the period 1167-70. 


LANGTON 


98. Gift by Burga wife of Sir William de Vescy, for the health of 
her husband and of Eustace their son, to Malton priory of the 
church of Langton which was of her marriage dowry. 

[1169-83] 


Malton Chartulary, Cotton MS. Claudius D. xi, f. 35V. Pd. in 
Mon. Ang., Vi, O71. 


Cunctis Christi fidelibus Burge uxor domini Willelmi de Vesci 
salutem. Vobis omnibus innotescat quod ego Burge divino ducta 
instinctu concessi et dedi quantum fas est libere mulieri et hac mea 
carta confirmavi Deo et canonicis beate Marie virginis de Maltona 
ecclesiam de Langetun? que est de mariagio meo cum omnibus per- 
tinenclis suis in puram et perpetuam elemosinam tam libere quam 
_liberius aliqua elemosina potest religioni donari. Hanc autem dona- 
cionem feci eis pro salute domini mei Willelmi de Wesci et Eustacii 
filii nostri et pro salute patris mei et fratrum meorum et pro me ipsa 
et cetera. Huis testibus, et cetera. 


This is preceded by a charter of William de Vescy (Wesci) making the 
same gift, for his own welfare and that of his wife and heirs. 

William de Vescy died before Michaelmas 1183, when his lands had 
fallen into the king’s hand.? In 1185, when his widow was living, his heir 
was aged fourteen and in the king’s wardship.* This heir was his son Eustace, 
who during the year ending at Michaelmas 1189, when the lands were 
still in the king’s hand, received a payment of 3s. per day amounting to 
54l1. 15s. for the year.» He had come of age by Michaelmas 1190, when 
he owed sums for fines for his lands in Northumberland and Yorkshire and 
for marrying at will, and when he rendered account for his scutage.® The 
dates show that his birth can be placed within the limits of 1169 and 1171. 
The ‘pro salute’ clause suggests that Burga’s father, Robert de Stuteville III, 
was alive when she issued the charter. 


1 Cal. Ing. p.m., ili, no. 472. 

2 Fifth letter altered in red ink from a toe. 

3 Pipe Roll 29 Hen. II, p. 140; Rot. de Dominabus, p. xxi. 
* Rot. de Dominabus, pp. 9, 10. 

5 Pipe Roll 1 Ric. I, p. 3. 

§ Jind. 2 Ric. I, pp. Zk, 68, 73. 


180 STUTEVILLE FEE 


$12. THE UPSALD FEE 


In 1282 it was recorded that Geoffrey de Upsall held a 
knight’s fee in Upsall, [South] Kilvington and Thornbrough of 
Baldwin Wake, and that it was appurtenant to the manor of 
Buttercrambe.! 

At the Domesday survey 13 carucates in these places were 
held by the count of Mortain, of whom Richard [de Surdeval] 
held a tenancy in Upsall.2. The charter by which William de 
Stuteville confirmed the three vills to Arnold de Upsall (no. 29) 
states that they had been held by Ralph de Upsall, Arnold’s an- 
cestor, of Ralph Paynel by the service of a knight’s fee. It is 
probable that in Upsall as elsewhere, Richard de Surdeval’s holding 
passed to Ralph Paynel by marriage ;3 and this may explain the 
origin of the latter’s tenure of the three vills. It is clear, however, 
that an interest passed subsequently to the Mowbrays. It was 
recorded in 1284-85 that Roger de Mowbray held a knight’s fee in 
[South] Kilvington, Thornbrough and Upsall ; of the 5 carucates 
in South Kilvington the church was endowed with 5 bovates, the 
prior of Newburgh held 6 bovates and the remainder was held of 
the heirs of Baldwin Wake, who held of Roger de Mowbray, who 
held in chief; and the 4 carucates in Upsall and Thornbrough 
were held by Hugh de Upsall of the same heirs similarly. In 
1316 the tenant of the three places was Geoffrey de Upsall (the 
younger).® 

There is no reason to suppose that any interest in the three 
places had been held by Robert de Stuteville I, or formed part 
of the holdings of Robert de Stuteville III, either in chief or as a 
sub-tenure of Roger de Mowbray in 1166, or, indeed, was acquired 
by the Stuteville family before the time of William de Stuteville. 
The date when William de Stuteville acquired the interest is not 
known ; but his charter shows that it was acquired earlier than 
1191-94. It cannot, therefore, have formed part of the 9 knights’ 
fees which he received from William de Mowbray in augmentation, 
when the dispute was settled in 1201.6 

In view of William de Stuteville’s charter Ralph de Upsall 
must have been living early in the twelfth century, and his des- 
cendant Arnold de Upsall late in that century. Arnold de Upsall 
witnessed a charter of William Ingram to Byland abbey, 1180- 
c. 1200,’ and one of William de Stuteville making a grant in his 
fee of Ripley to Fountains abbey, c. 1190-1203. In 1195 he was 
amerced in Yorkshire, paying the balance of his fine in the follow- 
ing year ;* and in the period c. 1183-1203, as lord of Upsall, he 
made agreements with Adam Fossard, his neighbour at Marderby, 

1 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439. 

2°V C.. Yorks., u, 228; 

> On this point see £.Y.C., vi, p. 4. 

4 Feudal Aids, vi, pp. 51, 53-4. S-Pbid ., p. 17S: 

6 See charter no. 43. 

’ £.Y.C., imi, no. 1840. 


8 Ibid., i, no. 521. 
9 Pipe Roll 7 Ric. I, p. 92; 8 Ric. I, p. 179. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 181 


a term of the settlement being that he should marry Juliana, 
Adam's sister (nos. 81-2). In 1244 Geoffrey de Upsall (the elder) 
and his heirs had a grant of free warren in his demesne lands in 
Upsall.t 

The difficulty of deciding in whose hand the tenancy-in-chief 
resided at any particular period is shown by a plea in 1210 when 
Geoffrey Luterel complained that his service from a knight’s fee 
with appurtenances in Upsall held of his fee by Arnold de Upsall 
was in arrear ; Arnold agreed that the knight’s fee was held of 
Geoffrey's fee, but said that he held it of Nicholas de Stuteville 
whom he vouched to warranty.? There is no mention here of the 
Mowbrays ; and it is clear that Geoffrey Luterel’s interest was 
derived from his inheritance as heir of William Paynel of Hooton 
Pagnell, grandson of Ralph Paynel and his second wife Maud 
presumed daughter of Richard de Surdeval.? There is also a 
record of the manor of Upsall being held of Sir Andrew Luterel 
at the end of the fourteenth century.4 

There was another holding where a member of the Upsall 
family appears in a subordinate position to the Stutevilles. This 
was at Kirby Knowle, about a mile to the east of Upsall, which at 
the Domesday survey was a berewick of 3 carucates of the manor 
of Bagby, held in chief by Hugh son of Baldric.5 In 1284-85 it was 
recorded that the whole vill of 5 carucates was held by Roger de 
Lascelles of Hugh de Upsall, who held of the heirs of Baldwin 
Wake, who held of Roger de Mowbray.® If this is correct, it can 
be suggested that the berewick of Kirby Knowle formed part of 
the feoffment made to Robert de Stuteville III by Roger de 
Mowbray I. 


SOUTH KILVINGTON 


99. Agreement by which Arnold de Upsall granted to Ralph de 
Belvoir the sluice of his mill of Thirsk in the land of [South] 
Kilvington, rendering half a mark of silver yearly. 

{late 12th cent.] 
MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 129V, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 

Hec est convencio facta inter Ernaldum de Upsale et Radulfum 
de Beuuer. Idem Ernaldus et heredes sui concesserunt et dederunt 
eidem Radulfo et heredibus suis exclusagium molendini sui de Tresch 
in terra de Kiluingtun in crofto scilicet Elurici pro dimidia marca 
argenti annuatim reddenda cujus dimidium reddetur ad Pentecosten 
et dimidium ad festum sancti Martini. Quod si forte hec firma non 
fuerit ad terminum reddita prefatus Ernaldus et sui heredes pacienter 
expectabunt quadraginta diebus quibus expletis si nondum reddita 

1 ee Chart. Rolls, 1226-57, p. 277. For his descendants see V.C.H.., 

Nik, ii, 41. 

2 Curia Regis Rolls, vi, 6. 3 E.Y.C., vi, pp. 38-46. 

* V.C.H., N.R., ti, 41, citing an ing. of 16 Ric. II. 

5 V.C.H. Yorks., ii, 275 ; and see the tables in Chapter II above. 

6 Feudal Aids, vi, 53. In 1323 the manor was held by the Lascelles 

heirs of Geoffrey de Upsall (Cal. Ing. p.m., vi, no. 425). 


182 STUTEVILLE FEE 


fuerit tollendo aliquid terre circa predictum exclusagium auferent ei 
aquam ne molendinum molere possit donec firma reddatur ; et si idem 
exclusagium stare non potuerit in loco prenominato inter terram 
ecclesie et croftum Stephani firmabitur cum consilio utriusque Ernaldi 
scilicet et Radulfi. De hoc tenemento est affidat[us] ejusdem Ernaldi 
idem Radulfus similiter et heredes Radulfi erunt affidati heredum 
Ernaldi. Sane stagnum Radulfi erit ad mensuram cujusdam nativi 
rupis sub molendino Ernaldi ut scilicet summitas ejusdem rupis 
versus filum aque discooperta sit cum idem molendinum movit. Huis 
testibus, Radulfo de Amundeuilla, Thoma filio Thome, Willelmo de 
Atune, Ada Fossardo, Ada de Boltebi, Galfrido Fossardo, Richero de 
Wassand, Willelmo filio Engelr’, Gamaliele de Kiluington, Roberto 
filio Matildis, Stephano de Kilu[ington], Nigello, Roberto, Ada de 
Torneberc, Radulfo de Torneberc. 


It is probable that Ralph de Amundeville, the first witness to the 
present charter, whose superior interest is shown by the next, issued on the 
same occasion, can be identified as Ralph, a younger son of Jocelin de 
Amundeville, who held Long Preston of the Percy fee, or with his son a 
younger Ralph. In the period 1196-1200 the younger Ralph claimed a 
knight’s fee in Moor Monkton and Bilbrough, places which had been held 
by Ralph Paynel in 1086 ; and the Amundeville interest in South Kilvington 
may well have been due to Ralph Paynel’s tenancy-in-chief, noted above, 
especially as there is evidence to suppose that Beatrice, the elder Ralph’s 
mother, was a daughter of Ralph Paynel.!. The younger Ralph de Amunde- 
ville was dead in 1201, which fixes the latest date for these charters. It 
cannot be decided whether the Ralph therein mentioned was the father 
or son, though the former is more likely. ; 

The grantee, as Ralph de Beauver, Belveir or Belver, witnessed a 
South Cave charter in 1154 ;4 and occurs in 1150-c. 1170 and 1170-85.3 He 
and Constance his wife, and also Ralph de Amundeville (who gave a rent 
from the mill of Long Preston), were benefactors of St. Clement’s priory, 
York, not later than 1175.4 Gamaliel de Kilvington, one of.the witnesses 
to the present charters, occurs in 1170-86.° In his MS. transcript of the 
charters Farrer suggested c. 1180-c. 1190 as their date—a period which is 
supported by the occurrence of the fourth, fifth and sixth witnesses. 


100. Confirmation by Ralph de Amundeville to Ralph de Belvoir of 
the mill-pool and sluice of Thirsk in accordance with the ciro- 
graph between the latter and Arnold [de Upsall], the grantor 
being lord of the fee where the sluice was erected. 

[late 12th cent.] 


MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 129%, from the original formerly in St. 
Mary’s Tower, York. 


1 See C. T. Clay, ‘The Family of Amundeville’ in Lincs. Architect. and 
Arch. Soc. Reports and Papers, iii, pp. 111, 125-6; and E.Y.C., vi, pp. 39, 
109. 

2 E.Y.C., iii, no. 1824 ; and see the note to no. 126 below. 

3 Tbid., nos. 1845-6. 

+ Tbid., i, no: Sou. : 

5 [bid., iii, no. 1849 ; Richard prior of Newburgh was a witness. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 183 


Sciant omnes tam presentes quam futuri ad quos litere presentes 
pervenerint quod ego Radulfus de Amundeuill’ presentis carte mee 
testimonio confirmavi Radulfo de Beauueir et heredibus suis stagnum 
et exclusagium molendini de Tresc prout cyrographum inter prefatum 
Radulfum de Beauueir et Ernaldum super prefato stagno et exclusagio 
testatur, sicuti dominus feodi illius ubi exclusagium firmatum est. 
Hiis testibus, Thoma filio Thome, Willelmo de Atona, Ada Fossard, 
Ada de Boltebi, Galfrido Fossard, Richerio de Wadzand, Willelmo 
filio Ingelrer, Gamaliel de Kiluintona, Roberto filio Matildis, Stephano 
de Kiluintona, Nigello, Roberto, Ada de Torneberc, Radulfo de 
Torneberc. 


o13.. FHE SEINGSBY FE 


In 1282 it was recorded that Robert Chambard held a 
knight’s fee in Slingsby of Baldwin Wake, and that it was appur- 
tenant to the manor of Buttercrambe.t 

At the Domesday survey 14 carucates in Slingsby were 
held by the count of Mortain, and other land there (probably a 
carucate) formed a berewick of the manor of Hovingham, held by 
Hugh son of Baldric.? There is evidence that in the twelfth 
century a knight’s fee in Slingsby was held of the Paynels of 
Hooton Pagnell, who descended from Richard de Surdeval, an 
important tenant of the count of Mortain in several places ; and 
in 1212 William Bastard, husband of Isabel daughter and coheir 
of William Paynel, was plaintiff against Nicholas de Stuteville 
for services due to him from Nicholas from the tenement held of 
him in Slingsby, namely a knight’s fee.2 The. Paynel interest 
passed to the Mowbrays, possibly in a similar manner as the 
knight’s fee in Upsall (see §12), being united to any interest that 
the Mowbrays held in Slingsby as an appurtenance of Hovingham. 
In 1284-85 it was recorded that 15 carucates in Slingsby (the 
total of the Domesday assessment) were held of the Mowbray 
fee ; of these 74 carucates were held directly of Roger de Mowbray 
by William de Wyville, and of the other moiety 5 carucates were 
held by John Chaumbard of the heir of [Baldwin] Wake, who 
held them of Roger de Mowbray, one carucate formed the en- 
dowment of the church, the Templars and Kirkham priory each 
held 2-bovates, and Malton priory held the remaining carucate ; 
while in another return half a knight’s fee was held directly of 
Roger de Mowbray by William de Wyville and half a knight’s 
fee by John Chamberd, who held it of the Wake heirs who held 
it of Roger de Mowbray.! 

Some notes on the early generations of the family of Cham- 
bord or Chambard have been given with the charters of Robert 
Chambord un the reign of Henry II, giving or confirming’ to 
Marrick priory and Rievaulx abbey land in East Cowton, where 
the family held an under-tenancy of the honour of Richmond ;5 

L Cal. Ing. pms, A; Bo. 439. GV Gt OVS, ND 2e2,- 276: 

> Curia Regis Rolls, vi, 260; and E.Y.C., vi, p. 190. 

4 Feudal Aids, vi, pp. 62, 64. 

> E.Y.C., v, nos. 343-4 ; and plate xxvi. 


184 STUTEVILLE FEE 


and some further notes with a charter of the same Robert Cham- 
bord, giving the church of Slingsby to Whitby abbey, a gift in 
which William Hay joined.! 


$14. THE FLAWIITH AND THOLTHORPE FEES 


In 1282 among the fees pertaining to the manor of Butter- 
crambe were half a knight’s fee held by William [?] Boneface and 
Luke de Flawith (Flathewath) in Flawith and Tholthorpe, both in 
par. Alne, and in Tholthorpe a quarter of a knight’s fee held by 
William de Mortimer and another quarter held by Sibyl widow of 
Geoffrey de Mortimer.? 

At the Domesday survey 7 carucates in Tholthorpe and 
Wide Open (in Skelton) were soke of the vill of Helperby, held 
by the archbishop of York ;3 and there is no mention of Flawith. 
There appears to be no clue to the origin of the interest of Baldwin 
Wake in these places or to its association with the manor of 
Buttercrambe. 

With regard to the first half knight’s fee it can be noted 
that Eustace son of Alan Boneface quitclaimed land in the neigh- 
bourhood of Flawith to St. Mary’s, York, c. 1180-1194 ;4 and 
that in 1252 Luke de Flawith and Agnes his wife gave to St. 
Leonard’s hospital 2 bovates in Flawith which were evidently 
held in her right.® 

With regard to the Mortimer interest it is significant that 
in 1265 it was recorded that Geoffrey de Mortimer had been of the 
household of Baldwin Wake and held land in Eakley in Stoke 
Goldington, co. Buckingham.* He died on 29 Sept. 1272, holding 
land in that county of the king in chief through the heir of Ralph 
de Mortimer, who was under age and in the wardship of dame 
Joan Wake, by the service of a sixth of a knight’s fee ; he left a 
widow Sibyl and William his son was his heir.’ There can be no 
doubt that they were the tenants, each of a quarter of a knight’s 
fee, in Tholthorpe in 1282. 

In 1284-85 4 carucates 2 bovates are given as the amount 
of land in Tholthorpe ; of these William de Mortimer held 2 caru- 
cates 3 bovates and the earl Marshal® 3 bovates of the fee of 
Baldwin Wake, who [had] held in chief ; the church had an en- 
dowment of 2 bovates ; and the abbot of Byland held 2 bovates 
and a toft.® 7 

1 £.Y.C., vi, no. 99 and pp. 142-3, The Hay interest in Slingsby 
probably passed to the Wyvilles (zbid., note to no. 100). : 

2 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439. > VCH. Yorks.,.u, pp 213; 313. 

aE VEC ., We ROw 196. > Yorks Fines, 1246-72, p. 85. 

6 Cal. Ing. Misc., i, no. 627. 

7 Cal. Ing. p.m., i, no. 84. In 1242-43 4 k.f. was held by Waleran de 
Mortimer in Eakley of the honour of Peverel (Bk. of Fees, p. 873). For 
Waleran and some notes on Eakley see H.K.F., i, 195-7. 

8 This was Roger Bigod, earl of Norfolk, whose mother was Joan 
de Stuteville, wife successively of Hugh Wake and Hugh Bigod (Complete 
Peerage, new ed., ix, 593). 

9 Feudal Aids, vi, 60; the details show a deficiency of 1 car. There 
is no return for Flawith. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 185 


Sis. THE STILLINGPLEET FEE 


In 1282 Robert de Grey held half a knight’s fee in Stilling- 
fleet among the fees pertaining to the manor of Buttercrambe.! 

At the Domesday survey the assessment of Stillingfleet was 
4 carucates, of which a moiety was held by Erneis de Burun, and 
of the remainder 1$ carucates formed a manor held by Hugh son 
of Baldric, who also held a manor of one carucate in Moreby in 
the same parish.? Robert de Stuteville I held an interest in Moreby 
(charter no. 1); and it can be assumed that Hugh son of Baldric’s 
holding in Stillingfleet also passed to him. It is probable that 
these holdings were restored to Robert de Stuteville III with the 
manor of Cottingham and other portions of his inheritance. 

In 1230 archbishop Walter Gray purchased land in Moreby 
from Agnes de Manfield,* evidently land held of the honour of 
Richmond ; and in 1234 he also purchased 12 bovates in Stilling- 
fleet.» These purchases were presumably made with other lands, 
including Rotherfield, for the benefit of the archbishop’s brother 
Robert ;§ and in 1240 Robert de Grey purchased a carucate in 
Stillingfleet.’ His son Walter de Grey was the father of Robert 
de Grey of Rotherfield,8 who can therefore be identified as Baldwin 
Wake’s tenant in 1282. 

In 1284-85 details are recorded of 5 carucates in Stillingfleet ; 
of these Robert de Gray held 34 carucates, being 2 carucates of 
the heirs of Baldwin Wake, who held in chief, and 14 carucates of 
the heirs of Robert Trussebut who held of Robert de Ros in 
chief; and another carucate was held by Gilbert de Luthe of 
Jordan Foliot, who held of [the heirs of] Baldwin Wake in chief.® 
' Both carucates in Moreby are given as held of the honour of 
Richmond, of which one was held by Robert de Gray”? 


s16. [HE CLEPFORD FEE 


In 1282 the heirs of Anketin Malore held half a knight’s fee 
in Clifford among the fees pertaining to the manor of Butter- 
crambe.l 


1 Cal. Ing. p.m., li, no. 439. 

2 V.C.H. Yorks., li, pp. 277, 279, 321-2. Another car. in Moreby was 
held by count Alan, who also held 2 bov. in Stillingfleet, where the king 
held the remaining 2 bov. 

3 Probably included in the 3 car. in Moreby which were the subject 
of his charter. 

4 Reg. Gray, p. 234. > Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 18. 

6 Complete Peerage, new ed., vi, 150n. 

7 Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 87. 

8 Complete Peerage, ut sup., pp. 128-9 (ped.), 144. In 1330 Stillingfleet 
and Moreby were among the places where John de Grey of Rotherfield 
had a grant of free warren (Cal. Chart. Rolls, 1327-41, p. 189). 

9 Feudal Aids, vi, 35; another } car. was held of the honour of Rich- 
mond corresponding to count Alan’s holding in 1086. The abbot of Selby 
held an under-tenancy of the Trussebut heirs, as to which see Selby Coucher, 
i, 334-6. For the Foliot holding see §4 above. 

10 Feudal Aids, vi, 34. 
11 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439. 


186 STUTEVLILLE FEE 


At the Domesday survey Nigel [Fossard} held 6 carucates in 
Clifford, par. Bramham, of the count of Mortain.! Clifford became 
a member of the Fossard tenancy-in-chief, later held by the family 
of Mauley. An under-tenancy was held both in Clifford and 
Bramham by the family of Birdsall,? also known by the name of 
Mowthorpe, Of this family some notes have been given in a 
previous volume in respect of its tenancy of the Paynel fee in 
Terrington and Mowthorpe.* Robert son of William de Birdsall 
and Adam his son were donors to Kirkstall abbey of land and 
pasture in Clifford. Adam son of Robert was dead in 1211, and 
Sara daughter of William de Mowthorpe (apparently Adam’s son 
and heir) was married to Anketin Malore by 1230.5 At the in- 
quisition held in 1275 after the death of Nicholas son of Anketin 
Malore it was found that he held 3 carucates in Clifford of the 
fee of Sir Peter de Mauley, his heirs being his four sisters ;§ and in 
1284-85 the 24 carucates there were held of the heirs of Baldwin 
Wake, who held of Peter de Mauley.? At one of the inquisitions 
held in 1279 after the death of Peter de Mauley II it was found 
that Baldwin Wake held of him 2 knights’ fees in Bramham 
and Clifford.’ 

It is clear that the Stuteville interest in Clifford was due 
to the gift made to William de Stuteville of the service of Adam 
son of Robert de Birdsall for all his tenement which he held there 
of William Fossard (no. 36 above). It can be supposed that this 
mesne tenancy became associated with the manor of Buttercrambe 
for administrative convenience. Certainly no interest in Clifford 
had been an appurtenance of that manor during its tenure by 
Robert de Stuteville I or when the manor was restored to Robert 
de Stuteville ITT as a tenancy-in-chief. 


$17, THE HESSLE FEE 


In 1282, among the fees pertaining to the manor of Cotting- 
ham, half a knight’s fee was held in Hessle by the heirs of Adam 
de Traneby.® 

At the Domesday survey, apart from the carucate in Hessle 
which was a berewick of the manor of North Ferriby, held by 


PV Cid Yorks, ay 227. 

2 A charter of Robert son of William de Birdsall giving land in Bram- 
ham, 1160-80, is pd. with the charters relating to the Fossard fee in E.Y.C., 
ii, no. 1035. 

2 BY 0.5 Wily pp. 207-8. 

: Kirkstall Coucher, nos. 193, 195-6, 199 ; no witnesses are named. 

5 E.Y.C., vi, p. 208. In a memorandum in Kirkstall Coucher, no. 192, 
where Sir Robert de Birdsall is described as formerly lord of Clifford, Sara 
is given as his dau., whereas in all probability he was her great-grandfather. 

© Cal. Ing. p.m.,. 11, no. 112.; and see the notes to Yorks. Inq., 1, no. 92: 

7 Feudal Aids, vi, 26. 

8 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 304. In another ing. on the same occasion 
Anketin Malore (who was then dead) is given as holding of Peter } k.f. in 
Huntington and Clifford (zbid.); it is not unlikely that this canning part of 
the 2 k.f. held by Baldwin Wake. 

9 Cal. Ing. p.m., li, no. 439. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 187 


Ralph de Mortemer, Gilbert Tison held a manor of 7 carucates in 
Hessle, a church and a priest being recorded.1 Gilbert also held, 
as his sole tenure in Lincolnshire, a manor of 2 carucates 73 bovates 
im South Ferriby ;* and in 1115-18, Gilbert Tison’s name being 
mentioned in the entry, Nigel d’Aubigny held 2 carucates 63 
bovates in the same place.? The subsequent association of in- 
terests held by the family of Hessle in Hessle and South Ferriby, 
situated on either side of the river Humber, as Stuteville under- 
tenants, and the fact that the service of Gilbert Tison for his 
lands in the East Riding was included in the feoffment made by 
Henry I to Nigel d’Aubigny,* and so passed to the honour of 
Mowbray, suggest that Gilbert’s interests in both Hessle and 
South Ferriby formed part of the 10 knights’ fees which Roger 
de Mowbray granted as an under-tenancy to Robert de Stuteville 
III. There is, however, the discrepancy in the various records, of 
which several examples have already been given, as to whether 
the tenancy-in-chief was held by the Stutevilles and their Wake 
descendants or by the Mowbrays. 

The main line of the family of Hessle descended from Ivo 
de Karkeni,® who with the consent of John his son gave the church 
of Hessle to Guisborough priory (no. 101). In the early years of 
Henry II, as Ivo de Karkenii, he restored to Herbert son of Ade- 
lard the land which Adelard had held of him and his ancestors in 
South Ferriby, saving the moiety of the church which at Adelard’s 
request he had given to Bullington priory.6 The charters printed 
below show that Ivo was succeeded by his son John de Hessle and 
his grandson Robert. John de Hessle and his son Robert made 
gifts to the priory of North Ferriby of land in Hessle and South 
Ferriby, one of John’s charters being confirmed by Robert de 
Stuteville III c. 1164-1183, and another issued at the siege of 
Acre (no. 18 and note). Robert de Hessle gave 2 bovates in South 
Ferriby to the church of Lincoln, which were confirmed by 
Nicholas de Stuteville I (no. 53 and note). In the period 1206-1208 
he gave to Thornholme priory a knight’s fee in Tetford, co. Lincoln, 
for a yearly rent of 100s., which the priory shortly afterwards 
quitclaimed for land in South Ferriby ; and he granted Robert 
Angevin a rent from 14 bovates in Hessle in exchange for land in 
Tetford and [South] Ormesby.’ In 1212 he held a knight’s fee in 

1 VY C.H. Yorks., a, pp. 269, 272. For the Mortemer holding of North 
Ferriby see E.Y.C., ii, pp. 487-8, 500-1. 

2 Lincs. Domesday, Lincoln Rec. Soc., p. 104 ; his man Anschitill being 
named. Gilbert de Gant also held there 2 car. 62 bov., soke of his manor 
of Barton on Humber (ibid., p. 106). 

3 Lindsey Survey, Lincoln Rec. Soc., p. 252. AV EO OV RS. 1d, 175; 

> He is named as Ivo de Hezell as the donor temp. Hen. II of a bovate 
in South Ferriby to Sempringham priory in the Hundred rolls for wap. 
Yarborough (MS. Dodsworth Ixxxix, f. 83%, from a transcript kindly lent 
by Sir Frank Stenton). 

6 Original charter Harl. Ch. 52 C. 50, pd. in F..M. Stenton, Danelaw 
Charters, no. 24 ; among the witnesses was Saxelin de Hesla. The latter’s 
son was Geoffrey son of Sixelm’ de Hesell’ who occurs in 1218-19 (Polls 


of Justices . . . Yorks:, Selden Soc., no. 882); and see no. 104 below. 
7 Lincs. Fines, i, pp. 72, 74, 83. : 


188 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Tetford of the archbishop of York, which Hugh de Neville held of 
him. He died before 1218-19, when Joan his widow was a plain- 
tiff for land in Hessle.2 His heirs were his three sisters, of whom 
one, Roese, married first Henry de Tranby, and secondly Wiliam 
de Sutton ; and in the eyre of 1218-19 William de Sutton and 
Roese were plaintiffs against the master of the hospital of North 
Ferriby for land in Hessle and Tranby.* In 1221 an agreement 
was made by fine between William de Sutton and Roese his wife, 
claimants, and Alan de Tranby, tenant, for a third of the manor of 
Tranby claimed as dower of the tenement of Henry de Tranby, 
formerly Roese’s husband, Alan’s brother and sister John and 
Ingalin are mentioned, and it can be supposed that they were all 
Roese’s issue by her first husband.4 Alan de Tranby was the 
father of Adam de Tranby.°® 


In 1242-43 the prior of Thornholme held half a knight’s fee 
in South Ferriby of the old feoffment of Joan Wake, who held of 
the king in chief ‘de conquestu’;§ but in the Hundred Rolls for the 
wapentake of Yarborough,’ 1274-75, where several details are 
given for the portions of South Ferriby held of the baronies of 
Roger de Mowbray and Gilbert de Gant, it is stated that Joan de 
Stuteville of Cottingham held half a knight’s fee of the heir of 
Roger de Mowbray, which was held of her by the prior of Thorn- 
holme, other details including 64 bovates by the prior of North 
Ferriby of the gift of Nicholas de Stuteville [II], and 3 bovates 
by the chapter of Lincoln of the gift of John de Hessle. In 1284- 
85 the details relating to the Stuteville fee show that the heir of 
Cottingham held 4 carucates in chief in Hessle for a quarter of a 
knight’s fee, another carucate there being held by the prior of 
North Ferriby in alms as a portion of the holding in Willerby.® 
In 1302-03 and 1346 the amount of land held by tenants of the 
Stuteville fee in Hessle is given as 3 carucates on the basis of 8 
carucates to the knight’s fee. A charter of Joan de Stuteville 
confirming the interests which Watton priory held in Hessle is 
printed at no. 61 above. 


1 Bk. of Fees, p. 168. In the same Lincs. return (p. 158) he held 2 
car. 3 bov. of Nicholas de Stuteville by the service of $ k.f.; the entry suggests 
that this was an additional holding in Kettleby Thorpe and Bigby ; but that 
is unlikely (see §2 above), and Robert’s holding was almost certainly in 
South Ferriby. As regards Tetford, in 1086 the archbishop of York held 
2 manors of 3 car. there, with sokeland in South Ormsby (Lincs. Domesday, 
p. 27). Four charters of Robert de Hessle making gifts to the church of 
Lincoln of land in Tetford are pd. in Reg. Antiquissimum, vi, pp. 121-3. 

2 Rolls of Justices, ut sup., nos. 239, 275. 

3 Ibid., nos. 160, 181; cf. no. 341, showing the Stuteville interest in 
Hessle. 

+ Yorks. Fines, 1218-31, p. 39. 

> £.Y.C., ui, p. 416. 

6° Bk. of Fees, pp. 1012, 1097 ; another 4 k.f. was held there of Gilbert 
de Gant. 

7 See the note above. 

8 Feudal Aids, vi, 49. 

° Ibid., pp. 151, 221. It is possible that the 4 car. held in -demesne 
and the 3 car. held by tenants represent the Domesday holding of 7 car. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS FEES 189 


(1) HESSLE 


101. Gift by Ivo de Karkeni with the counsel and consent of John 
his son to Guisborough priory of the church of Hessle, saving 
the tenure as rector of John his nephew for as long as he should 
hold the church. [early Henry IT] 
Guisborough Chartulary, Cotton MS. Cleopatra D. u, f. 346. Pd. 
in Guisborough Chartulary, ii, no. 1059. 

Notum sit omnibus audientibus litteras istas quod ego Iuo de 
Charcheni consilio et consensu Johannis filii mei et heredis mei 
dedi et concessi ecclesie sancte Marie de Giseb[urne] et canonicis 
ibidem Deo servientibus ecclesiam de Hesel cum terra adjacente in 
liberam puram et perpetuam elemosinam pro anima mea et vita mea 
et pro uxore mea et herede meo Johanne et ceteris filiis meis et pro 
anima uxoris mee Matildis defuncte et animabus patris et matris mee 
et predecessorum meorum, salvo personatu Johannis nepotis mei 
quamdiu supradictam tenuerit ecclesiam. Hanc donacionem feci coram 
hiis testibus, Alano sacerdote, Unfrido de Hotuna, Eustachio nepote 
prioris, Roberto filio Rualdi, Willelmo filio Haldini, Willelmo filio 
Hugonis, Ricardo de Eden’, et multis aliis. 


The gift was included in the general confirmation charter of Henry II, 
1176-86.1 


102. Confirmation by John de Hessle to Guisborough priory of the 
church of Hessle which his father had given. [c. 1175-83] 
Guisborough Chartulary, Cotton MS. Cleopatra D. ii, f. 346. Pd. 
in Guisborough Chartulary, ii, no. 1060. 
) Johannes de Hasala omnibus has litteras audituris vel visuris 
salutem. Sciatis me dedisse et concessisse et hac mea carta confirmasse 
Deo et ecclesie sancte Marie de Giseb[urne] et canonicis ibidem Deo 
servientibus ecclesiam de Hasla quam pater meus eis antea dederat in 
liberam puram et perpetuam elemosinam pro salute anime mee et 
omnium amicorum meorum et antecessorum meorum. Hiis testibus, 
R[icardo] priore et Nigello et Bernardo canonicis de Nouo Burgo, 
magistro Rogero Arundel, Willelmo de Cottingham, Bernardo de 
Rippeley, Willelmo de Stut[euilla], Willelmo de Vescy, Rainerio 
senescallo, Willelmo de Cardolio, Willelmo filio Hugonis, Rogero Cato, 
Willelmo filio Aldon’. 


The names of the witnesses show that this charter was issued on the 
same occasion as the confirmation of William de Stuteville (no. 20). 


103. Confirmation by Robert de Hessle to Guisborough priory of all 
the gifts made by Ivo de Karkeni, his grandfather, and John 
his father, namely, the church of Hessle, rights of passage over 
the Humber, a villein named Turbernus with his sequel and 
toft and facilities therein, and a toft in Beverley. [ante 1219] 


Guisborough Chartulary, Cotton MS. Cleopatra D. ii, f. 346. Pd. 
in Guisborough Chartulary, ii, no. 1062. 


BoE Vue.) ie ney 673; 


190 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Noverint omnes hoc scriptum audientes quod ego Robertus de 
Hasel concessi et hac carta mea confirmavi omnes donaciones [et] 
concessiones quas fecerunt Iuo de Karkeni avus meus et filius ejus 
Johannes pater meus ecclesie sancte Marie de Giseb[urne] et canonicis 
ibidem Deo servientibus in liberam puram et perpetuam elemosinam 
ecclesiam scilicet de Hesel cum omnibus pertinenciis suis et passagium 
de Hasel ad Humbriam canonicis eisdem et omnibus qui ad eos 
pertinent cum omnimoda adquietacione, et similiter passagium apud 
Feriby liberum et quietum quantum ad jus meum pertinet, et Turber- 
num hominem suum cum tota sequela cum tofto! quem ipse Tur- 
bernus tenet cum communi pastura de Hasel ita ut quicunque in 
prefato tofto per predictos canonicos manserint habeant omnimodam 
libertatem exercendi negocia sua maxime in cervisiam et panem 
faciendo et vendendo ut [n]ullus ab eis inde aliquam consuetudinem 
exigat. Ad hec toftum unum in Beuerlaco quem Leuericus tenuit. 
Testibus hiis, Waltero de Ruddestaine fratre meo, Alano filio Ernisii 
de Hesel, Hugone fratre ejusdem, Alano filio Alani le Moigne, Roberto 
Bastard fratre meo, Osberto persona de Hilderwell’, magistro Radulfo 
de Rungeton’, Stephano de Driffeld, Thoma le Escot, Roberto filio 
Rad[ulfi] de Skelton’, Petro de Uppelithum, et multis aliis. 


The Hessle section in the Chartulary also includes the charters of John 
de Hessle, the grantor’s father, giving acquittance of passage over the 
Humber at Hessle and [South] Ferriby (no. 1063);2 and giving Torbernus, 
with the same clause as to the occupation of the toft (no. 1071). 


(ii) TRANBY 


104. Gift by Roger son of Peter de North Cave to Guisborough 
priory, at the instance of Richard Duket, rector of Hessle, of 
half a carucate of land in the territory of Tranby [par. Hessle], 
which he had of the gift of William de Stuteville. [ante 1219] 

Guisborough Chartulary, Cotton MS. Cleopatra D. ii, f. 346V. Pd. 
in Guisborough Chartulary, ii, no. 1064. 

Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Rogerus de Caua filius Petri 
de Northcaua dedi et concessi et hac carta mea confirmavi pro salute 
anime mee et antecessorum meorum ad instanciam Ricardi Duket 
rectoris ecclesie de Hesel Deo et ecclesie sancte Marie de Giseb[urne] 
et canonicis ibidem Deo servientibus dimidiam carucatam terre in 
territorio de Traneby illam scilicet quam habui de dono Willelmi de 
Stuteuill’ ; habendam et tenendam in puram et perpetuam elemosinam 
salvo tamen mihi et heredibus meis forinseco servicio scilicet scutagio 
quod pertinet ad dimidiam carucatam terre unde sex carucfat]e 
terre et dimidia faciunt feodum dimidii militis pro omni servicio et 
exactione. Hanc autem terram cum pertinenciis ego et heredes mei 
warantizabimus predicto conventui contra omnes homines. Hiis 
testibus, Roberto de Hesel, Alano Monacho, Galfrido filio Saxiuini, 
Alano filio Ernesii, Willelmo et Nicholao capellanis, Willelmo de 
Caua, Laurencio de Wilton’ clerico, et multis alliis. 


! Corrected from tophto as originally written. 
2 Pd. in £.Y.C., ii, no. 764, the first two witnesses being Robert, the 
grantor’s son, and Nicholas, the grantor’s brother ; date assigned 1180-95. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES oil 


The gift was confirmed by Nicholas de Stuteville, son of Nicholas de 
Stuteville (no. 1065); and Agnes, the donor’s widow, sold to the priory her 
right of dower in the half-carucate (no. 1066). Richard Duket occurs as 
rector of Hessle in the period c. 1190-1203 (no. 21 above). The third witness 
occurs as Geoffrey ‘filius Saxelini’ in Chartulary, nos. 1078, 1080 etc. 

Tranby is not mentioned by name in the Domesday survey, but land 
there may have formed part of the 3 carucates in ‘Chrachetorp’, a manor 
held by Gilbert Tison.! It lies in par. Hessle ; and this charter shows that 
the Stutevilles held an interest, though that may have been separate from 
the holding of the Hessle family in Hessle itself. Some of the interests in 
Tranby appear to have passed to one of the Hessle heirs, however, by the 
marriage of Roese de Hessle with Henry de Tranby. In 1284-85 an under- 
tenancy was held by Watton priory through a gift made by Adam de Tranby, 
and other tenancies are recorded, all being members of the Mowbray 
tenancy-in-chief.? 


SiS. “THE ETTON PRE 


In 1282, among the fees pertaining to the manor of Cotting- 
ham, half a knight’s fee was held in Etton by Henry de Eton? 

At the Domesday survey, in addition to manors which 
formed portions of the tenancies-in-chief of the archbishop of 
York and the count of Mortain, Hugh son of Baldric held two 
manors of 9 carucates 2 bovates in Etton and a further manor of a 
earucate in lorp’ jim Etton).* 

It appears that with this half knight’s fee there had been 
associated another half knight’s fee which consisted of 8 carucates 
in “Skerne. and 2Z carucates in Hutton Cranswick, held by 
~ Thomas son of Thomas de Etton of Nicholas de Stuteville I, 
and the lordship of which the latter gave to Meaux abbey.’ For 
this reason, presumably, it was omitted from the lst of holdings 
by knight-service in the inquisition of 1282. 

The family of Etton is the subject of a detailed account by 
Mr. John Bilson in his paper on Gilling Castle.6 He shows that 
they appear in Gilling in Ryedale in the second half of the twelfth 
century, and early in the thirteenth century divide into two 
distinct lines, the Ettons of Etton and the Ettons of Gilling. The 
former held a tenancy under the Stutevilles and Wakes, and 
their eventual heiress married Patrick de Langdale in the four- 
teenth century. According to the account of the family in the 
Meaux Chronicle,’ used by Mr. Bilson, Hugelin de Etton acquired 


1 Vie. Vorks.. i, 272: 2 Feudal Aids, vi, 43. 

3 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 439. 

4 ).C.A, Yorks., li, pp. 215, 225, 277, 320; Nigel [ossard| held of 
the count of Mortain, whose holding became a member of the Fossard fee ; 
and the tenant of Hugh son of Baldric was named Hugh. The total in 
Etton itself was 24 car. 

> Chron. dé Meisa; i, pp. 369, 376 5 and see the fine of 1222 cited at p. 
19 above. In 1086, apart from other holdings, Hugh son of Baldric held 
6 car. in Skerne and 2 car. in Hutton Cranswick (V.C.H. Yorks., ii, pp. 277, 
321), 

6 Yorks, Avch. Journal, xix, 105 et seq. Nol. i, pp dlG-7. 


FOZ STUTEVILLE FEE 


4 carucates 5 bovates in Skerne by marriage with Aubreye, a 
daughter of Robert de Octon ;! this land, with lands in Hutton 
Cranswick he held of Robert de Stuteville ; he lost the king’s 
favour, and his lands were granted to Odo de Maunsel. Odo’s 
son Geoffrey was the father of Thomas de Etton the elder, who 
had issue three sons, Thomas de Etton the younger, Geoffrey and 
Odard. Charters issued by Thomas (the elder), son of Geoffrey, 
and by Geoffrey his son are given below at nos. 105-7. The 
following references throw light on the chronology : 


Thomas de Etton witnessed a York charter, 1160-75.2 In 
the period 1179-89 Henry II issued a writ authorizing Thomas 
de Etton son of Geoffrey to have in peace his park which he had 
made in his land at Etton.? In a case of 1194 relating to 8 caru- 
cates in Kilnwick [Percy] Thomas de Etton (Ecton’) appeared as 
the son of one of the sisters of Ernald and Robert de Percy.* 
Thomas son of Thomas de Etton quitclaimed to John de Surdeval 
all right in 94 bovates in Gilling ;> and a fine giving effect to this 
was levied in 1223.6 A fine in 1218 shows the interest of Geoffrey 
de Etton in Gilling’? In 1226 and 1227 Maud widow of Thomas 
de Etton claimed against the master of the Templars dower in 
land in Etton ;® and in 1240 Robert son of Thomas de Etton, 
mentioning the dower of Maud his mother, quitclaimed to the 
abbot of Meaux lands in Skerne and Hutton Cranswick.® Robert 
de Etton, who was living in 1261 (see footnote below), may have 
been the father of Henry de. Etton, the tenant im 12625 but-or 
this no proof has been found.” 


1 Described as sheriff of Yorkshire and then a monk at Meaux (tbid., 
p. 102); charters by his son William in the period 1170-85 are pd. in E.Y.C., 
ii, nos. 1065-8. 

2 Ibid., i, no. 334. 

3 Ibid., ii,no. 1098. This is pd. under the Fossard fee. It is difficult to 
accept Farrer’s suggestion in his note that Thomas’s father was Geoffrey 
Fossard. <A collection of 74 charters from Lord Downe’s MSS, 12th to 15th 
cent., some reproduced in facsimile, is pd. by Mr. T. Walter Hall in Etton 
an East Yorkshire village (1932); the earliest, with date assigned as c. 1170, 
is a Charter of William Fossard to Thomas son of Geoffrey de Etton, evidently 
relating to the Fossard portion of the vill. 

+ Rot. Cur. fegis, Pipe Roll Soc,,-xiv, 21.~ These were the Percies of 
Kildale ; and it can be deduced that either Thomas de Etton the elder or 
his father Geoffrey (on chronological grounds the former is more likely) 
married a Percy, sister of Ernald and Robert. An echo of this case is seen 
in a fine of 1261 when William de Percy gave 60 marks of silver to Robert 
de Etton, who was the claimant to a large portion of the manors of Kildale 
and Kilnwick (Yorks. Fines, 1246-72, p. 123). 

2 BLY .C.,, ii; p. 483: 

° Yorks. Fines, 1218-31, p. 50. 

 Thids pS: 

8 [bid., p. 84; ibid., 1232-46, p. 168. In 1284-85 the Templars held 21 
bovates in Etton of the Stuteville fee (Feudal Aids, vi, 49). It seems reason- 
ably certain that Maud was sister of Robert de Butterwick, who granted 
to Thomas de Etton in frank-marriage with her half a carucate in Butter- 
wick (T. W. Hall, op. cit., no. 3, with facsimile). 

° Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 78. 

1° Robert had a brother Henry, who occurs, however, as. early as 
1235-49 (Chron. de Melsa, ii, 55). 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 193 


(i) ETTON 


105. Gift by Thomas son of Geoffrey de Etton and his wife to Watton 
priory of 195 acres of land in the fields of Etton on the west side 
of the vill. The priory had received them into fraternity for 
participation in its benefits. [1154-c. 1160] 

MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 315%, from the original formerly in St. 
Mary’s Tower, York. 

Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Thomas filius Gaufridi de 
Ettona et sponsa mea concessimus et dedimus Deo et beate Marie et 
conventui de Watt[un] noviesviginti et quindecim acras terre in campis 
de Ettona cum omnibus pertinentiis videlicet in occidentali parte 
ejusdem ville liberas et quietas et solutas ab omni seculari servitio et 
exactione et consuetudine in puram et perpetuam elemosinam cum 
communi pastura ejusdem ville. Hanc elemosinam dedimus et hac 
carta confirmavimus eis pro animabus patrum et matrum et ante- 
cessorum nostrorum et pro nostra nostrorumque salute; et nos et 
heredes nostri guarantizabimus et acquietabimus eis hanc elemosinam 
nostram contra regem et dominos et omnes homines de querelis et 
calumpniis et omnibus omnino rebus in perpetuum. Et sciendum est 
quod prenominatus conventus in plenam fraternitatem nos suscepit 
ut in omnibus beneficiis suis simus participes. His testibus, domino 
Rogero archiepiscopo Eboracensi, Symone canonico de Beuerlaco, 
Rogero Hurel, Jheremia, Alano, clericis archiepiscopi, Waltero capellano 
de Maltona, Willelmo nepote ejus, Ricardo presbitero de Watton, 
Willelmo clerico de Etton’, Philippo Rabot, Alexandro de Santona, 
Ricardo de Hotun, Stanardo de Ettona, Serlone, Waltero preposito de 
Wattun, Waltero filio Ricardi, Radulfo, Siward, Theodrico. 


In 1240 the donor’s descendant Robert son of Thomas [de Etton] quit- 
claimed to the prior of Watton a rent of 4s. then due from these 195 acres.! 

The latest approximate date for the present charter is based on the 
occurrence of Roger Hurel as a canon of Ripon by c. 1160,2 and by the 
occurrence of Jeremy and Roger Hurel, clerks of the archbishop, as witnessing 
a charter in the period 1154-58. 


(11) SKERNE 


106. Gift by Thomas son of Geoffrey de Etton, with the consent of 
Thomas his son and heir, to Robert son of Nicholas de Cowlam 
and Maud the grantor’s daughter and Robert’s sons by her and 
their heirs of 9 acres of land in the fields of Skerne, and 2 acres 
of meadow. [c. 1175-95] 


Meaux Chartulary, B.M. Lansdowne MS. 424, new f. 136. 


Sciant presentes et futuri quod ego Thomas de Etton filius 
Gaufridi consensu et assensu Thome filii mei et heredis concessi et 
dedi et hac mea carta confirmavi Roberto filio Nicholai de Collom’ et 
Matildi filie mee et pueris quos de ipsa habuerit et eorum heredibus 

1 Yorks. Fines, 1232-46, p. 85. 2 £.Y.C., ia, no. 1119, 


3 Fountains Chartulary, ii, 708; and for the date see Yorks. Arch. 
Journal, xxxvi, 281n. 


194 SLUTEVILLE FEE 


novem acras terre in campis de Skyrne, scilicet duas acras et dimidiam 
propinquiores terre Willelmi fili1 mei majoris versus aquilonem et duas 
acras et dimidiam apud Leuekeldesyc juxta terram Willelmi filii mei 
predicti versus orientem et quatuor acras inter Leuedimar et terram 
monachorum de Melsa; et preterea duas acras prati propinquiores 
prato predictorum monachorum de M[elsa] versus orientem; tenenda 
cum omnibus pertinenciis suis et libertatibus suis infra villam et extra 
de me et heredibus meis in feodo et hereditate libere et quiete red- 
dendo inde michi et heredibus meis per annum sex denarios pro omni 
servicio scilicet in vigilia natalis Domini. Hanc autem terram cum 
omnibus pertinenciis suis ego Thomas et heredes mei warantizabimus 
predicto Roberto et Matildi filie mee et pueris eorum et eorum here- 
dum contra omnes homines. Hiis testibus, Alano de Collum, Roberto 
de Helperthorp’, Ricardo de Helperthorp’, etc. 


xifts made by Thomas de Etton the elder to his daughter Maud and 
Robert de Cowlam in marriage, and a further gift to them in Skerne by 
Thomas the younger in the period 1210-20, are entered in the Meaux 
Chronicle.t Robert and Richard de Helperthorpe witnessed a charter c. 
1175-c. 1195,2 and Alan de Cowlam c. 1180-1195.3 As the grantor’s heir 
is given as his son Thomas, William, described as his elder son, was 
probably illegitimate. 


107. Confirmation by Geoffrey son of Thomas de Etton to Meaux 
abbey of half a carucate of land and the abbey grange in Skerne 
given by Thomas his father, 6 bovates leased by Odard his 
brother and another bovate, and all the rights and liberties 
granted by Thomas his father and Thomas his brother. 

[early 13th cent.] 


Meaux Chartulary, B.M. Lansdowne MS. 424, new f. 136V. 


Omnibus ad quos presens carta pervenerit Gaufridus filius 
Thome de Etton’ salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et hac mea carta 
confirmasse Deo et sancte Marie et monachis de Mfelsa] dimidiam 
carucatam terre cum grangia eorum et pratis adjacentibus que ipsi 
habent de T[homa] patre meo in territorio de Skyrna et sex bovatas 
terre quas habent ad terminum de Odardo fratre meo et unam bovatam 
de Adam stabulario necnon et omnia jura et libertates et liberas con- 
suetudines eis a patre meo et a I[homa] fratre meo concessa et con- 
firmata prout carte et cyrographa patris mei et aliorum prenominatorum 
que inde habent testantur. Hiis testibus, Rogero persona de Wagna, 
Johanne de Melsa, W. de Bovyngton’, Ricardo de Wyuill, etc. 


There follow several other charters relating to Skerne ;*+ these include 
(a) a gift by Odard son of Thomas de Ettona of 2 bovates in Skerne ; 
(b) a gift by Maud daughter of Thomas de Etton’ in her widowhood of all 
her lands and tenements in the territory of Skerne (f. 136Y); and (c) a con- 
firmation by Thomas son of Thomas de Etton of all the marsh and arable 
land and rent which his men of ‘Hoton’ et Crauncewyk’ gave and of all 


Vol. 4, p. 379. 
29 VCs, 4, No: 33: 3 Lota, Wi, nO 1077. 
+ Spellings, §Skivna, Skyren. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 195 


the gifts made by his free men of Skerne (f. 137). The grantor of the present 
charter was probably the ancestor of the Ettons of Gilling ;1 he made a gift 
in Skerne to Meaux abbey in the period 1197-1210.? 


so) ) DHE HONOURS OF LIDDEL-AND ROSEDALE 


In 1212 it was recorded that Nicholas de Stuteville [1] 
held his land in Cumberland of the king by cornage, rendering 
yearly a cornage rent of 56s., and that Ranulf earl of Chester, 
sometime lord of Cumberland, gave the said land to Turgisius 
Brundos, ‘antecessor’ of the said Nicholas by the said service.® 
This land can be identified as the basis of the honour of Liddel,* 
the members of which are given in detail in the inquisition held 
after the death of his granddaughter Joan de Stuteville (mother 
of Baldwin Wake) in 1276; the barony and forest of Liddel, with 
lands in Arthuret, Brackenhill and elsewhere, being held of the 
king in chief by the service of 56s. cornage at the king’s ex- 
chequer at Carlisle and suit at the county court of Cumberland.é 

The reference to the gift made by Ranulf earl of Chester 
shows that the date was not later than 1121, for he appears to 
have surrendered the lordship of Cumberland on becoming earl 
of Chester.6 It is likely that Turgisius Brundos’ was dead at 
Michaelmas 1130, when a certain William Brundos, probably his 
son, paid 2 marks of silver in Yorkshire imposed by the justices 
at Blyth.8 This William can probably be identified with William 
de Rosedale, who gave the land of Kershope, Cumberland, to St. 
Peter’s hospital, York (no. 108), and was a benefactor of Rosedale 
priory (no. 111). His gift to the hospital with Godeheuld his wife 
was made not later than 1157 (no. 109). He was the father of 
Turgis de Rosedale who confirmed his gift to Rosedale priory 


1 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xix, 111 

2 Chron. de Melsa, i, 318, where the lease of 6 bovates by Odard is 
mentioned. 

3 Bk. of Fees, p. 198. In the account of Nicholas de Stuteville I given 
above in Chapter I it is shown that he had been in possession of Liddel in 
1174. Although proof is lacking it can be assumed that he had it by royal 
grant and not by inheritance. 

4 The caput was Liddel Strength on the river Esk. For an account of 
the honour see T. H. B. Graham in Cumb. and West. Ant. and Arch. Soc., 
N.S. xili, 33-54. 

5 Cal. Ing. p.m., ii, no. 195. Additional details are given in the inq. 
held after the death of her son Baldwin Wake in 1282; these specify the 
forest called Nichole forest and the amounts of land in several places held 
of the lord by cornage, the tenants rendering 56s. yearly, the lord answering 
therefor to the sheriff of Cumberland for the king’s use ; a list of knights’ 
fees and serjeanties is added (zbzd., no. 439). 

6 Complete Peerage, new ed., ii, 166. 

7 Turgis Brundos is the subject of a paper by T. H. B. Graham in 
Cumb. and West. Ant. and Arch. Soc., N.S. xxix, 49-56; but it is difficult to 
suppose he was identical with the younger Turgis. It is likely that it was 
the elder Turgis, who as Turgestius de Rusdall witnessed a charter to 
Wetheral priory in company with Odard the sheriff (Reg. Wetherhal, no. 
247). 

: 8 Pipe Roll 31 Hen. I, p. 30. A William son of Turgis was a witness 
with king David at Carlisle (Lawrie, Early Scottish Charters, no. 200). 


196 STUTEVILLE FEE 


(no. 111), and was a consenting party to his gift to the hospital 
(no. 108). 

This younger Turgis, as Turg’ de Russedal’, was among the 
witnesses to a charter of king Henry II at Newcastle upon Tyne 
in 1158 ;} and, as Turgisius de Russendala, to king Malcolm IV’s 
confirmation charter to St. Peter’s hospital, York (no. 109). At 
Michaelmas 1165 the sheriff of Yorkshire accounted for a mark 
paid by Turgis de Russedale.? Described as Turgis de Russedale, 
sometime lord of the manor of Liddel, he is recorded as the donor 
of the church of Arthuret to Jedburgh abbey, to which it was 
afterwards appropriated by the consent of Bernard bishop of 
Carlisle? To the same house he gave the house of religion of 
Liddel [Canobie priory] with the land adjacent and the church 
of Kirkandrews-on-Esk (no. 110). 


Guy de Rossedale, who with the consent of Ralph his son 
gave land near Liddel to Jedburgh abbey not later than 1174 
(no. 110), was evidently of the same family. He can perhaps be 
identified with Guy de Rusedala who witnessed a charter of 
William de Roumare, earl of Lincoln, relating to Little Steeping 
and Halton Holegate, co. Lincoln, 1142-51 ;4 with Guy de Russe- 
dale who with Fulk de Alneto held a knight’s fee of the new 
feoffment of Walter de Aincourt, as recorded in the latter’s carta 
returned from Lincolnshire in 1166 ;°? and with Guy de Russendale 
who owed 5 marks for his wife’s maritagium in Lincolnshire in 
1158.6 A Robert de Russedale witnessed a charter of Robert de 
Stuteville III, c. 1170-1183 (no. 16). 


After the acquisition of the honour of Liddel by Nicholas 
de Stuteville I its history is reasonably clear.? In 1214 dower was 
claimed therein by Sibyl de Valognes, widow of Robert de Stute- 
ville, elder son of Nicholas; it was assigned to Robert’s son 
Eustace in 1219 until his full age by his uncle Nicholas II ; it was 
apparently held by Eustace until his death in 1241, when it 
passed to his first cousin Joan de Stuteville, wife of Hugh Wake ; 
and it was subsequently held by her descendants the Wakes, 
lords of Liddel. 


From an early date in the twelfth century there appears to 
have been a close connexion between the honour of Liddel and 
the lands in North Yorkshire in the wapentake of Pickering Lythe 
which became known as the honour of Rosedale. This consisted 
of land in Middleton, a mile to the north-west of Pickering, in- 
cluding Cropton, 3 miles further north-west, and the vale of the 
river Seven which further north is known as Rosedale where the 


1 Eyton, Itinerary, p. 33; facsimile from the Cartae Antiquae in 
V.C.H. Cumberland, i, 320-1. 

2 Pipe Roll 11 Hen. If, p. 51. 

3 Cal. Ing. Misc., ii, no. 1035. 

4 Stenton, Danelaw Charters, no. 500. 

5 Red Bk. of Exch., p. 380. 

6 Pipe Roll 4 Hen. II, p. 138. 

7 Details for the following statements are given in Chapter 1. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 197 


priory was founded! Robert son of Nicholas de Stuteville I 
held a knight’s fee in Middleton during his father’s lifetime ; his 
son Eustace was in possession in 1230 ; and in 1214 Robert’s widow 
had claimed dower in the honour of Rosedale and in the vills of 
Middleton and Cropton.? 

The statement that the house of Cistercian nuns at Rosedale 
was founded by Robert son of Nicholas de Stuteville in the reign 
of Richard I® requires reconsideration. At first sight the con- 
firmation charter of king John, confirmed by Edward III (no. 55), 
suggests that Robert was the founder. But another and earlier 
confirmation by king John (no. 111) refers to a gift made to the 
nuns by William de Rosedale and confirmed by Turgis his son, 
and also to a charter of Henry II. The notes given above relating 
to William and his son Turgis, and their gift of land in the honour 
of Liddel to St. Peter’s hospital (nos. 108-9), show that Rosedale 
priory must have been founded at least as early as the opening 
years of the reign of Henry II. It seems likely that William de 
Rosedale was the actual founder.4 Several benefactions from the 
time of Robert de Stuteville and his father Nicholas are given in 
the note to charter no. 55: and the text of a charter of Eustace 
son of Robert de Stuteville at no. 56. 


108. Gift by William de Rosedale to the hospital of St. Peter, York, 
of the land of Kershope [Cumberland] within specified bounds. 
[ante 1157] 


Pd. in Cal. Charter Rolls, 1300-26, p. 93, from Charter Roll, 35 Edw. I, 
m. 8. 


Willelmus de Rossedale omnibus hominibus suis omnibusque 
sancte ecclesie filiis salutem. Notum sit vobis me concessisse et dedisse 
et hac carta mea confirmasse terram de Cresope in liberam et quietam 
et in perpetuam elemosinam Deo et sancte Marie et hospitali sancti 
Petri de Eboraco fratribusque ibidem Deo servientibus per istas 
divisas, videlicet per fossam Galwalensium et per rivulum de illa fossa 
cadentem usque in Lidel et ex altera parte fosse recte usque in altam 
moram et sic per lecundos de la more usque in antiquam viam de 
Rochesburc et sicut ipsa via cadit in Cresope desuper scalingas que 
fuerunt Eadulfi. Qua propter volo ut predicti fratres hanc terram 


1 In 1086 the king held a total of 164 carucates in Middleton, Aislaby, 
Wrelton, Cawthorn and Cropton (V.C.H. Yorks., ii, 310), all par. Middleton. 
In 1284-85 the total in these places, held by John son of Baldwin Wake, 
was 14 car. 3 bov. ; and in 1302-03 the total, of the fee of John Wake, was 
14 car. held in fractional amounts which add up to a knight’s fee (see the 
details given in Chapter II above). It is not unlikely that the difference 

_ between the total Domesday assessment and the amount of land constituting 
the honour of Rosedale was represented by the 2 car. in Aislaby held in 
chief by the serjeanty tenure of training and keeping a liam-hound (BA. 
of Fees, pp. 4, 350, 1200; Round, The King’s Serjeants, pp. 279-80). 

2 See pp. 16, 17 above. Several place-names in the vale of Rosedale 
are given in the note to charter no. 55 ; and land in Cawthorn, par. Middleton 
is mentioned in no. 57. 

3 Mon. Ang., iv, 316; followed in V.C.H. Yorks., iu, 174. 

+ This is recognized in V.C.H., N.R., ii, 457. 


198 STUTEVILLE FEE 


infra istas divisas teneant liberam et quietam de me et de heredibus 
meis omni remota seculari occasione et consuetudine in nemore et 
plano in pascuis et aquis et omnibus proficuis sine ulla retentione ita 
-libere sicut aliqua ecclesia liberius tenet. Et si pastura infra illorum 
divisas illis non sufficit in foresto meo pasturam sine occasione habeant 
et meiren ad edificandum et porcos suos sine padnagio. Testante et 
concedente Turgiso filio meo cum hiis testibus, Rodberto de la Ferted, 
Willelmo de Heriz, Ricardo milite, Hutredo filio Hulfi, Adam de 
Bonefeld, Hugone de Nuers, Warino Finemund, Hunfrido capellano. 
Valete. 


Kershope lies to the n.e. of Liddel. Richard the knight, one of the 
witnesses, is probably the man of that name who occurs in the Carlisle 
accounts in 1130.1 For the latest date for this charter see no. 109. 


109. Confirmation by Malcolm [IV] king of Scotland to the hospital 
of St. Peter, York, of the gift of Ranulf de Sules, his butler, of a 
carucate of land in the vale of Liddel, as the charter of king 
David his grandfather witnessed ; and of the land called Kershope 
given by William de Rosedale and Godeheuld his wife. 

At Carlisle. [1153-57] 
Pd. in Cal. Charter Rolls, 1300-26, p. 93, from Charter Roll, 35 
Edw-L, m. 8. 

Malcolmus rex Scottorum episcopis abbatibus comitibus baroni- 
bus justiciis vicecomitibus prepositis ministris omnibusque suis 
probis hominibus totius terre sue salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et 
hac mea carta confirmasse hospitali Eboraci donationem quam eidem 
domui Dei et sancti Petri Ranulfus de Solis pincerna mea? dedit, scilicet 
unam plenariam carucatam terre in terra sua Vallis Lidel, ut carta 
regis David avi mei attestatur. Preterea concedo et firmiter confirmo 
hospitali predicto sancti Petri Eboraci landam illam que vocatur 
Gresopa quam dedit ei Willelmus de Russendala et uxor eyus Godeheuld’ 
ita libere et quiete ut eorum carta contestatur in elemosina perpetua 
possidendam ut liberius et quietius et honorificentius aliqua elemosina 
in tota terra mea possidetur. Testibus, Hugone de Moreuilla et Ricardo 
filio suo, Waltero filio Alani, Ranulfo de Solis et Turgisio de Russendala, 
Jordano Heirun. Apud Carliolum. 


The latest date can be taken as 1157 when Malcolm surrendered the 
northern counties to Henry II. For Ranulf de Sules and his nephew, a 
younger Ranulf, see Lawrie, Early Scottish Charters, p. 309, and T. H. B. 
Graham in Cumb. and West. Ant. and Arch. Soc., N.S. xxix, 50. 


110. Confirmation by William king of Scotland to Jedburgh abbey 
of inter alia the gift of Turgis de Rosedale of the house of religion 
of Liddel [Canobie priory] and the church of Kirkandrews-on- 
Esk; and of the gift of Guy de Rosedale, with the consent of 
Ralph his son, of 42 acres between the Esk and the Liddel and 
liberty of water. [1165-74] 
1 Pipe Roll 31 Hen. I, pp. 140-2. ; 

2 Sic, presumably for meus. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE KNIGHTS’ FEES 199 


Facsimile of the original charter at Dalkeith in Facsimiles of 
National Manuscripts of Scotland, part i, no. XxXXVili. 
Willelmus Dei gratia rex Scott[orum] . . . . Deo et ecclesie sancte 
Marie de Jeddew[rde] et canonicis ibidem Deo seruientibus . . 
conflizmamus ...\- 2%. ex dono Turg[isii] de Rossedal’ domum religionis 
de Lidel . cum tota terra ei adiacente . ecclesiam quoque de Kirchandr’ . 
cum omnibus ad illam pertinentibus . ex dono Guid[onis] de Rossed[{al’] 
assensu et consensu Rad[ulfi] filii sui . xlij. acras inter Esch et Lidel . 
ubi Esch et Lidel conueniunt . et libertate[m] aque a fossa de Lidel 
usque ad ecclesiam de ‘Lidel’.:...°.: 


William the Lion became king of Scotland in 1165; and [Engleram 
bishop of Glasgow, one of the witnesses, died in 1174. 


111. Confirmation by king John to Rosedale priory of the gift which 
William de Rosedale had made and which Turgis his son had 
confirmed. At Scarborough. 3 Feb. 1200-1. 


Pd. in Rot. Chartarum, p. 85a. 


Johannes Dei gratia etc. Sciatis nos concessisse et confirmasse 
donationem quam Willelmus de Russedal’ fecit sanctimonialibus de 
Russedal’ et quam Turgis filius ejus eisdem concessit. Quare volumus 
et firmiter precipimus quod predicte sanctimoniales teneant omnia 
illa que prefatus Willelmus eis dedit in terra et bosco et in omnibus 
aliis rebus ita libere et quiete et honorifice et cum omnibus libertatibus 
et liberis consuetudinibus eidem terre pertinentibus sicut carta Willelmi 
et Turgis filii sui testatur. Et prohibemus ne quis predictis sancti- 
monialibus vel rebus earum injuriam vel contumeliam faciat quia ipse 
et omnes res earum sunt in nostra custodia et in nostra protectione 
sicut carta regis H. patris nostri rationabiliter testatur. 


[wetness and dating clauses|.* 


1 William de Stuteville was the second witness. 


CHAPTER V. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE SUB-TENURE OF 
THE HONOUR OF MOWBRAY 


The charters in the present chapter relate for the most part 
to certain lands in Yorkshire held by Hugh son of Baldric at the 
Domesday survey, which passed to Robert de Stuteville I and 
then after his forfeiture in 1106 to Nigel d’Aubigny, and of which 
his son Roger de Mowbray enfeoffed Robert de Stuteville III in 
part satisfaction of the latter’s claims, thus forming a portion of 
his holding of Roger de Mowbray in 1166.1 The lands to which 
these charters relate are mainly the manors of Kirkby Moorside 
and Kilburn and their dependencies. They do not include such 
lands as Thirsk, Coxwold and Hovingham, which had become 
members of the honour of Mowbray similarly, but in which Robert 
de Stuteville III never recovered an interest. Charters relating 
thereto would be included more appropriately in a volume dealing 
with the honour of Mowbray and the tenants of that honour 
other than the Stutevilles.. The charters printed here, however, 
include several issued by Roger de Mowbray both before and 
after the enfeoffment of Robert de Stuteville III took place, 
the date of which can be fixed in the period 1154-66 (see 
p. 5 above). 

Nigel d’Aubigny was a younger son of Roger d’Aubigny 
and a younger brother of William d’Aubigny the butler.2,~ He was 
granted Montbrai and other lands in Normandy forfeited by 
Robert de Mowbray, earl of Northumberland. In June 1118 he 
married as his second wife Gundreda daughter of Gerard de 
Gournay by Edith daughter of William de Warenne, first earl of 
Surrey, and his wife Gundreda, from whom she evidently derived 
her name? Nigel d’Aubigny died in November 1129. - The interest 
taken by Gundreda his widow and Roger his son in abbot Gerold 
and his monks from Calder led to the foundation of Byland abbey.4 
Gundreda is said to have been still living in 1155.5 

Roger de Mowbray, Nigel’s son and heir by his wife Gundreda, 
was still young (adhuc puerulus) when he fought at the battle of 
the Standard in 1138. In 1147 he took part in the second crusade. 
On 17 April: 1153 he-execured a. charter at, York’. -In digathe 
supported the younger Henry against the king, but his castles, of 
which Thirsk was one, were surrendered in 1174, and he made 

1 Details relating to these lands are given in Chapter II. 

2 Complete Peerage, new ed., ix, 367 et seg, for this and other state- 
ments. 

oe. ., Vill, Ds 7. 

4 Mon. Ang., v, 349-54; and cf. E.Y.C. iii, p. 445. 

5 Mon. Ang., v, 353. 

6 The reference cited is £.Y.C., iii, no. 1823; this: has a useful list of 
witnesses, including Sampson de Albenni and Roger de Cundi, Roger’s 
clerks, and Hugh de Malebys, Oliver de Buscy, Hamo Beler and Herbert 
the butler, his men. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 201 


his peace with the king. In 1186 he was serving in the third 
crusade and in 1188 he died either in Palestine or on the return 
journey. He married Alice daughter of Walter de Gant and 
widow of Ilbert de Lascy II, who had died in or about 1141.! 

Roger de Mowbray had issue two sons, Nigel his heir, and 
Robert. Nigel de Mowbray was at the Council of Clarendon in 
January 1163-4. He accompanied king Richard on crusade, and 
died at Acre in 1191. William de Mowbray, his son and heir, made 
the agreement with William de Stuteville in 1201, by which the 
long-standing claims of the Stuteville family were settled. He 
was one of the Magna Carta barons, and died in or before March 
1223-4. His issue continued in the male line until 1476. 


(1) NEWBURGH PRIORY 


112. Confirmation by Simon the dean and the chapter of York of 
the grants made by William formerly archbishop and William 
formerly dean and the chapter of York to Newburgh priory 
relating to the churches of Hood, Coxwold, Thirsk, Hovingham, 
Welburn, Kirkby in Ryedale [Kirkby Moorside], Cundall, and 
Kirkby by Boroughbridge [Kirby Hill], with their chapels, 
tithes and lands, saving the rights of the church of York and 
the archbishops. [1201] 


Original charter, MS. Dodsworth Ixxvi, f. 46. 


Uniuersis sancte matris ecclesie filiis . hanc cartam [uisuris uel 
audituris Simon decanus et capitulum sancti Petri Eboracensis]? 
eternam in Domino . salutem. Nouerit uniuersitas uestra . nos con- 
~ cessiones a bone memorie . W. quondam archiepiscopo et W. quondam 
decano et capitulo Eboracen[si] legitime factas . Deo et beate Marie 
de Nouo burgo . et priori et canonicis ibidem Deo seruientibus ratas 
habere et firmas . quantum ad nos pertinet . super ecclesiis . scilicet 
de Hod . et de Cukewad . et super ecclesiis de Tresc et de Houingham . 
et de Wellebrunn’ . et de Kirchebi in Ridal’ . et super ecclesiis de 
Cundale . et de Kirchebi iuxta pontem Burgi . cum omnibus earum 
capellis . et decimis . et terris . et ceteris quibuscumque pertinentiis . 
saluo in omnibus iure Ebor[acensis] ecclesie . et archiepiscoporum 
qui pro tempore fuerint. His testibus . Simone decano . H. thesaurario 
Ebor[acensi] . W. archidiacono Notingham’ . W. de Stiandebi . magistro 
Erardo . magistro Gregg[orio] . W. de Mala palude . magistro . Johanne 
Rom[ano] . canon[icis] Ebor[acensibus] . Hug[one] . et Ricardo cap- 
ellanis domini . decani . magistro . Johanne Lomb[ard] . magistro 
Martino . Matheo . Benedicto . Beniamino . clericis . et multis aliis. 


Shit for seal missing. Endorsed : Confirmacio capit(uli] Ebor[acensis] 
de ecclesis nostris. 


1 That is the date given in Complete Peerage, new ed., vii, 677 ; Farrer 
in E£.Y.C., ili, p. 199 gives c. 1142-43. The evidence of charter. no. 118 
below shows that Roger married Alice before 20 June 1143. 

2 These words, given here as a suggestion, are torn away except a 
fragment of capit’ and [E]bor’. 


202 STUTEVILLE FEE 


If it can be rightly deduced from this charter that all the churches 
specified were given to Newburgh priory in the time of William de Sainte- 
Barbe, dean of York, who became bishop of Durham in 1143, or in the 
time of archbishop William, then the latest date for the gift of any one of 
them was 1154. The evidence of the history of the foundation of Byland 
abbey shows that the patronage of the churches of Thirsk, Hovingham and 
Kirkby Moorside, offered by Roger de Mowbray to abbot Roger, was refused, 
and that it was given to the canons apparently before their move from Hood 
to Newburgh.1 The evidence of charter no. 163 below shows that Roger 
de Mowbray gave the church:of Welburn {7.e. Kirkdale| to Newburgh 
priory while Augustine was still prior. 

The first seven witnesses and the eleventh (John Lumbard) to the 
present confirmation witnessed a charter to the chapter of York, almost 
certainly issued in 1201 ;? while the first seven with the ninth and tenth 
and the last but one witnessed a charter to the canons, evidently of the 
same date.’ 

There are two general charters of Roger de Mowbray to Newburgh 
priory which are available in print; and they both give rise to certain 
difficulties. The first was printed in the Monasticon, and said to be from 
the original penes Thomas, Lord Fauconberg in 1638.4 It includes all the 
churches mentioned in the present confirmation of the dean and chapter, 
together with several chapels given by name and lands in many places. 
The difficulty lies in the witness clause which cannot possibly belong to it ; 
and indeed the witnesses precisely correspond with those in a general con- 
firmation issued by William de Mowbray,’ who in view of the specified 
relationships of members of the Mowbray family among the witnesses, 
can be identified as the grandson of Roger de Mowbray. This tends to 
throw doubt on the statement that it was taken from a genuine original,® 
though there is no reason to doubt that Roger de Mowbray duly made or 
confirmed the gifts recorded. 

The second was the subject of an inspeximus and confirmation in 
1389.7 A clause suggests that it was issued as a foundation charter, but 
actually it was addressed to prior Richard, the second prior. Farrer’s note 
to his transcript of it states that 1t bears some evidence of having passed 
through the hands of an expert editor in the scriptorium at Newburgh ; 
and he marks it as of doubtful authenticity. 


(ii) FADMOOR 


113. Gift by Robert de Maltby and Emma his wife to Keldholme 
| priory of 2 bovates of land in Nunnington and a bovate in 
Fadmoor. [1190-1201] 


MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 179, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 


1 Mon. Ang., v, 351. ¢ BY .C. ¥, 10. 233 note: 

3 Ibid., ii, no. 1261, where the date assigned, 1203-04, should be 
amended ; see Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxvi, 429n. 

4 Mon. Ang., vi, 318. > Ibid., pp. 318-9. 

6 There appears to be no record of the charter among the muniments 
of Newburgh priory reported on in 1903 (Hist. MSS. Comm., Various 
Collections, vol. il). 7 Cal. Pat. Rolls, 1388-92, pp. 160-2. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 203 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis presentibus et futuris 
Robertus de Mautebi et Emma uxor ejus salutem. Noverit universitas 
vestra nos pro salute animarum nostrarum et antecessorum et succ- 
essorum nostrorum concessisse et dedisse et hac carta nostra confir- 
masse Deo et ecclesie beate Marie de Keldholm et monialibus ibidem 
Deo servientibus duas bovatas terre in Nunnintona et unam bovatam 
terre in Faddemor cum omnibus pertinentiis suis et omnibus aisiamentis 
predictis villis pertinentibus in puram et perpetuam elemosinam liberas 
et quietas ab omni secular servitio et exactione. Hiis testibus, Willelmo 
de Estuteuill’, Eustacio de Vesci, Eustacio de Estuteuill’, Roberto 
fratre suo, Willelmo persona de Cotingham, Benedicto de Sculec- 
[otes], Gaufrido Fossard, Ada de Stauelfeia], Reginaldo de Capetot, 
Gaufrido de Bosco Willelmi, Alano filio Turkilli, Elya forestario. 


The gitt of a bovate in Fadmoor by Robert de Maltby and Emma his 
wite was included in a confirmation issued by William de Stuteville on the 
same occasion (no. 26). Nunnington, where the Stutevilles had no interest, 
was a tnember of the Paymnel fee.! 


(ili) FARNDALE 


114. Gift by Roger de Mowbray to Rievaulx abbey of two woodlands, 
namely Middlehead in Farndale and Dowthwaite, and common 
pasture of the valley of Farndale, saving the wild game. 

[ante c. 1155] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 42V (old f. 38V).? 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 62. 


Rogerus de Molbrai omnibus fidelibus tam suis quam alienis 
salutem. Notum sit vobis omnibus me concessisse et dedisse Deo et 
sancte Marie et fratribus Rieuall[ensibus] in elemosinam perpetuam 
Midelhouet scilicet saltum illum in Farnedale ubi Edmundus heremita 
manebat et alium saltum qui vocatur Duuanesthuat et communem 
pasturam ejusdem vallis scilicet Farnedal’ et in nemore ligna ad 
materiem et ad proprios usus eorum qui ibi manserint, salva salvagina. 
Teste, Samsone de Alb[ineio] et Petro de Tresc, Ricardo clerico de 
Mal[tun] et Gil[leberto] filio Petri,* et Anschetillo ostrar[io] et Waltero 
Parar’ et Ricardo des Escalfers]* et Johanne scriptore et Waltero de la 
Riuere, Reinaldo le Poer. 


Middlehead is marked on the 1 in. map at the head of Farndale near 
the source of the river Dove, about 3} miles to the n.w. of the village of 
Farndale East ; and Dowthwaite Hall is 5 miles to the south of the village 
close to the river. 

Limits of date for this charter are difficult to suggest ; but the first 
witness occurs in 1138 and 1142-43 (nos. 115, 118, 120); and Peter de Tresc 
and Walter de la Riuere witnessed a charter of 1154 (no. 151). 


#Y.C.5 Viz pp: 36, 120. 

Marginal number xix. 

These two omitted in the pd. edition. 
Written desescal’. 


hp WO ND 


204 STUTEVILLE FEE 
(iv) HOOD GRANGE 


115. Gift by Roger de Mowbray, with the consent of Robert d’Aunay 
and the monks of Whitby, to abbot Gerold and his convent of 
the place of Hood [par. Kilburn] with the wood and plain around 
it. [1138] 


Byland Chartulary, Egerton MS. 2823, f. 42V (old f. 147Y). MS. 
Dodsworth Ixiii, ff. 11V, 18. 


Ebor[acensi] archiepiscopo et toti capitulo sancti Petri et omnibus 
sancte ecclesie filiis Rogerus de Molbray salutem. Sciatis quod ego 
consensu Roberti de Aneto! et monachorum de Whitby pro salute 
anime mee et omnium antecessorum meorum dedi et confirmavi in 
perpetuam elemosinam liberam solutam et quietam ab omni terreno 
servitio Deo et Geroldo abbati et conventui suo et successoribus eorum 
in perpetuum locum de Hode cum bosco et plano circumjacente per 
metas et divisas quas eis demonstrari feci. His testibus, Sampsone 
de Albeneyo, Rogero de Cundy,? Gundrea matre Rogeri de Molbray, 
Helya de Sancto Martino, et ceteris. 


This gift is recorded in the history of the foundation of Byland abbey 
as having been made in 1138 ; Robert d’Aunay, formerly a monk of Whitby 
who was living as a hermit at Hood, then joined abbot Gerold’s congregation. 


116. Gift by Roger de Mowbray and Gundreda his mother to Whitby 
abbey of a messuage in York to satisfy the abbey’s claim to the 
church of St. William of Hood. [1138-40] 


Pd. in Whitby Chartulary, i, no. 259, from the Chartulary penes 
Sir Charles Strickland, f. 65. 


Rogerus de Molbreio et Gundrea mater ejus omnibus fidelibus 
sancte ecclesie salutem. Sciatis nos dedisse et concessisse coenobio 
sancti Petri et sancte Hilde de Wytebi unam masuram terre in Eboraco, 
scilicet illam quam Willelmus Plantepholia tenet, reddentem uno- 
quoque anno redditum 11) s. in perpetuum, pro salute animarum nos- 
trarum et amicorum nostrorum et propter calumpniam quam habebant 
apud ecclesiam sancti Willelmi de Hod libere et quiete et honorifice. 
Teste, Turstino archiepiscopo et Radulfo episcopo et Willelmo decano 
et Gaufrido Turcopula et Bertramo Agat et Rogero diacono et aliis. 


This charter and the next were doubtless issued at much the same time 
as no. 115, and certainly before 5 Feb. 1139-40 when archbishop Thurstan 
died. The second witness can probably be identified as Ralph Nowel, 
bishop of Orkney. The third was William de Sainte-Barbe, dean of York ; 
the fourth was Geoffrey Turcople, archdeacon of Nottingham at this 
period ;* and the fifth was Bertram Haget who witnessed a charter to Roger 
de Mowbray not later than 1145,° and one of Roger de Mowbray’s wife in 
1154.° 


1 Alneto is usual. 

2 Partly blurred in Chartulary text ; taken from Dodsworth’s copy. 
3 Mon. Ang., v, 349. 

4 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxvi,.275. ° Btile Ai, BO, wo, 

© Tbid., iii, no. 1824. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 205 


In the memorial of foundation entered in the Whitby Chartulary 
(vol. i, p. 5) this gift is described as ‘unam mansuram ad pontem Fosse in 
escambium propter Hod quam tenet Ricardus faber’. The church of ‘Hot’ 
was included in king Stephen’s confirmation charter to Whitby abbey, 
issued in Feb. 1135-6.1 


117. Quitclaim by abbot Gerold and the convent of Hood to Whitby 
abbey of a carucate of land in Butterwick to satisfy the abbey’s 

claim to the place [of Hood]. — [1138-40] 

Pd. in Whitby Chartulary, i, no. 238, from the Chartulary penes 
Sir Charles Strickland, f. 61. 

Geraldus Dei gratia abbas totusque conventus ecclesie sancte 
Marie sanctique Willelmi de Hod omnibus filiis sancte ecclesie salutem. 
Sciatis nos omnem calumpniam quam habemus super carucatam terre 
de Buterwic clamasse liberam et quietam ecclesie sancti Petri de Witebi 
cunctisque fratribus ibidem Deo servientibus in perpetuum pro 
calumpnia quam ipsi habuerunt super locum. Teste, Turstino archi- 
episcopo et Radulfo episcopo, Willelmo decano, Galfrido de Cupl’,? et 
aliis. 

Farrer notes that it is difficult to conceive what claim abbot Gerold and 
his monks could have had to the land in Butterwick, unless Robert d’Aunay 
had some claim upon it for his maintenance at Hood. A carucate in Butter- 
wick was given to Whitby abbey by Durand de Butterwick, c. 1120-1135, 
and confirmed by Robert Fossard, the whole of the vill being a member of 
the Fossard fee.? 


118. Gift by Roger de Mowbray, for the souls of Nigel [d’Aubigny] 
his father and Gundreda his mother and for the health of himself 
and Alice his wife, to St. Mary’s, Hood, and Augustine the 
prior and the canons there, of the church of St. Andrew, York, 
beyond the Foss in Fishergate, with a dwelling-house formerly 
belonging to Thurstan de Montfort, and also the man named 
Thorbrand dwelling there. [1142-43] 

MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 168, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. Pd. in Mon. Ang., vi, 320, from the same. 
Universis sancte ecclesie filiis R[ogerus] de Moubrai salutem. 

Notum sit tam presentibus quam futuris me concessisse et dedisse in 

perpetuam elemosinam, pro anima patris mei Nigelli et matris mee 

Gundrede et pro salute mea et uxoris mee Adeliz, Deo et sancte Marie 

de Insula de subtus Hod et Augustino priori et canonicis regulariter 

ibidem Deo substitutis et substituendis imperpetuum ecclesiam sancti 

Andree in Eboraco que sita est ultra fossam in Fischergata cum omnibus 

ad ipsam pertinentibus et cum mansura una que fuit Turstini de 

Munfort et hominem in ipsa manentem nomine Thorbrand. Hiis 

testibus, Willelmo decano et capitulo sancti Petri Eboraci, Samsone 

de Albaneio, Helia de Sancto Martino, Roberto Maltalent, Radulfo 
de Withuilla et Willelmo fratre suo, Ricardo pincerna. 
»£.Y C5 ii, now 868. 


2 Sic; but Turcupl’ is clearly intended ; see no. 116. 
3 E.Y.C., ii, nos. 1071-2, from the Whitby Chartulary. 


206 STUTEVILLE FEE 


The latest date for this charter is 20 June 1143, when William de 
Sainte-Barbe, dean of York, was consecrated bishop of Durham. It was 
issued after the departure of the monks under abbot Roger, who had suc- 
ceeded abbot Gerold, from Hood, where they had remained for four years, 
to Old Byland ; and the earliest date is 1142.! The charter therefore shows 
that the canons from Bridlington were established at Hood within those 
limits of date.2. They subsequently migrated to Newburgh, retaining Hood 
as a cell until the Dissolution. They retained no permanent tenure of the 
church of St. Andrew, Fishergate ; for before the end of the century it was 
in the possession of Hugh Murdac, who founded there a priory of the order 
of Sempringham.? It seems likely that this was the church of St. Andrew 
mentioned in the Domesday survey as in the tenure of Hugh son of Baldric ;4 
for it is reasonable to suppose that its possession by Roger de Mowbray was 
due to the grant made to his father of a large portion of the forfeited holdings 
of Robert de Stuteville [, held by Hugh son of Baldric in 1086. 

It is clear that Gundreda, Roger de Mowbray’s mother, was alive when 
this charter was issued (see no. 150); and it therefore gives an example of 
the danger of assuming that those mentioned in a ‘pro anima’ clause, as 
contrasted with ‘pro salute’, were necessarily dead. 


119. Gift by Roger de Mowbray to Byland abbey of 20s. in his mill 
of Coxwold in exchange for Hood, which at his petition the 
monks had demised to the canons who had come from Bridlington 
to build their cell. [1142-c. 1143] 

MS. Dodsworth xciv, f. 77V. 


Ebor[acensi] archiepiscopo etc. Rogerus de Mowbray salutem. 
Sciatis me dedisse Deo et monachis sancte Marie de Bellalanda viginti 
solidos in molendino meo de Cokewald in escambio pro Hod quod 
peticione mea dimiserunt canonicis qui venerunt de Brellingtona ad 
construendum cenobium suum, etc. 

It will be seen from no. 118 that the canons had arrived at Hood not 
later than 1143 ; and it can be supposed that this charter and the next were 
issued shortly after the provision of Old Byland for abbot Roger and his 
monks. The date 1145, given as the foundation of Newburgh priory,° is 
probably the date when the new site near Coxwold was provided by Roger 
de Mowbray or when the canons moved there from Hood. Augustine, the 
first prior, ruled the house both before and after the migration. The next 
charter shows that the 20s. rent was given by Sampson d’Aubigny ; and it 
must be suggested that the present charter was actually a confirmation 
of this. 

1 Mon. Ang., v, 350. The date of abbot Gerold’s death was probably 
24 Feb. 1141-2 rather than 1142-3, as the narrative suggests ; see on this 
point Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxviii, 10. 

2 The same point is proved by a charter of William the dean and the 
chapter of York to Pontefract priory, which was witnessed by Augustine 
prior of Hod (£.Y.C., iti, no. 1472, where the date assigned should be 
amended). 

3 Mon. Ang., vi, 962. 

4 V.C.H. Yorks., ii, 192, where Farrer’s note suggests that this was 
the church of St. Andrew in Andrewgate ; but Sir T. Widdrington in Analecta 
Eboracensia, p. 172, gives St. Andrew in Fishergate as the Domesday church. 

5 Mon. Ang., vi, 320. 6 See Appendix C below. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 207 


Sampson d’Aubigny’s gift is recorded in the foundation history of 
Byland, where he is described as Roger’s kinsman and as joining the com- 
munity of the canons.! A charter of his is recorded by which he gave to 
Augustine prior of Newburgh seven churches for the soul of Nigel d’Aubigny 
and his own ancestors, having the proposal to join the canons evidently in 
mind, and mentioning his own son Roger then under age.? The date was not 
later than 1157.3 In 1153 he is mentioned as a clerk of Roger de Mowbray.* 


120. Confirmation by Roger de Mowbray of the agreements made 
between Roger abbot of Byland and the canons of Hood, namely 
that for the peace of Robert d’Aunay the abbot demised to the 
canons the place of Hood on condition that there should be 
founded there for Roger de Mowbray an abbey of canons with 
a full convent observing the order of canons according to the 
rule of St. Augustine; and notification that Samson d’Aubigny 
gave in exchange to the abbot 20s. yearly from the mill of Coxwold 
which he was wont to take therefrom. [1142-c. 1143] 

MS: Dodsworth. xciv, 1. 77%. “Pd: an Mon. Ang., vi, 322, irom 
another source. 

Rogerus de Mowbray salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et con- 
firmasse convenciones que facte sunt inter Rogerum abbatem de 
Bellalanda et canonicos de Hod, scilicet quod pro pace Roberti de 
Alneto dimittit predictis canonicis locum de Hod cum omnibus 
pertinenciis suis in bosco et plano ea condicione quod in eodem loco 
fundabitur abbatia eorum canonicorum et ibi perpetuo permanebit 
cum plenario conventu qui observabit ordinem canonicorum ibi 
secundum regulam sancti Augustini. Sampson vero de Albeneio 
-dedit in escambio loci illius predicto abbati viginti solidos annuatim 
de molendino de Cokewald quos ipse inde accipere solebat. Hujus 
convencionis testis et fidei jussor ego, etc. 


121. Notification by Hugh bishop of Durham of the settlement in 
his presence, with the assent of Robert de Stuteville and William 
his son, of the controversy between the canons of Newburgh 
and Adam Fossard relating to the place of Hood and certain 
boundaries, by which Adam granted to the priory the said place 
where the church was standing with the land and woodland 
within bounds duly described, and the canons recognized Adam 
as the ‘advocatus’ of the said place. [1166-83] 

MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 149, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 

Tower, York. Pd.in Mon. Ang., vi, 322, from another source. 
H[ugo] Dei gratia Dunelm[ensis] episcopus omnibus litteras 
istas visuris salutem in Domino. Noverit universitas vestra contro- 
versiam illam que vertebatur inter canonicos de Nouoburgo et A[dam] 

Fossard super loco de Hod et quibusdam divisis que et nobis a domino 
L Mow. Ang., Vv, 301. 2 [bid., vi, 319. 

3 See Appendix C. As Bernard prior of Bridlington witnessed this 
date can almost certainly be put back to 1153, as Roger, Bernard’s successor, 


witnessed a charter with archbishop Henry (Hist. MSS. Comm., Duke of Rut- 
land, iv, 75). * Boy Cs, iin noe 1823. 


208 STUTEVILLE FEE 


papa commissa erat in presencia nostra assistentibus Roberto de 
Stutteuilla et Willelmo filio ejus assensumque prebentibus amicabili 
composicione terminatam fuisse fide utriusque data ad perpetuam 
composicionis firmitatem, ita videlicet quod Adam Fossard dimittit et 
concedit ecclesie sancte Marie de Nouoburgo in liberam et perpetuam 
elemosinam predictum locum de Hod ubi ecclesia sedet cum terra et 
nemore per metas et terminos quos inter se fecerunt ex australi videlicet 
parte ecclesie per rivum qui vocatur Haithwait ex parte occidentali 
ab eodem rivo versus aquilonem per divisam quam fecerunt usque ad 
cilium collis proximi ubi angulo facto divisa distincte se porrigit versus 
orientem usque ad rivum quendam qui veniens per transversum nove 
vie a monachis facte descendit in culturam canonicorum et per rivum 
illum ascendit divisa in novam viam et sic ascendendo porrigit se per 
eandem viam prius versus orientem et postea flectens versus aquilonem 
usque locum illum ubi divisa ab eis facta extendit se versus orientem 
usque ad summitatem more. Iste divise distincte sunt et perambulate 
concorditer ab Ada Fossard et canonicis! adjuncta sibi multitudine 
probabilium virorum. Predicti vero canonici recognoscent A[dam] 
Fossard advocatum jam dicti loci de omni jure suo et de omnibus que 
ad eum spectant. Canonici vero nullam communiam habebunt in 
terra A[de] Fossard ultra divisas nominatas absque consensu illius 
vel heredum suorum, set nec A[dam] Fossard vel heredes sui cum 
canonicis communicabunt infra divisas prescriptas. His testibus, 
Willelmo archidiacono Dunelm[ensi], Hugone fratre ipsius, Simone 
cam[erario], magistro Willelmo Blesensi, magistro Ricardo de Colding- 
ham, Gaufrido magistro monialium de Duua, Willelmo Hansard, 
Willelmo filio arch[iepiscopi],” Waltero de Wiuertorp, Ada de Warrum, 
Johanne de Houingham, Simone de Kirkebi, Willelmo de Stuteuilla, 
Nicholao de Stuteuilla, Johanne de Stuteuilla, Ricardo Croera, Regi- 
naldo de Capetot, Ada de Boltebi, Willelmo Was[celin], Michaele 
filio Brien, Willelmo filio Ingel[ram], Gilberto de Meinil, Johanne de 
Herford, Waltero de Creic, Philippo, Toma nepote prioris, Willelmo 
Albo;’. ..* dé Viuestun, Ingelero de: Terp: 


The latest date is 1183, when Robert de Stuteville III died ; and the 
earliest is 1166, when Geoffrey Fossard held the knight's fee to which Adam 
Fossard succeeded.*+ Adam ’s gift was confirmed by William de Stuteville, 
1183-99 (no. 24). Among the witnesses to the present charter were two sons 
and a brother of Robert de Stuteville ; and Richard Cruer and Adam de 
Boltby occur in his cavta of 1166. The sixth witness is Geoffrey, master of 
the nuns of Keldholme (see note to no. 12). As William the archdeacon, 
masters William Blesensis and Richard de Coldingham, and William son 
of the archbishop witnessed a charter of bishop Hugh not earlier than 1189,> 
the date of the present charter is probably late within the limits assigned. 

Robert son of Adam Fossard gave to the canons of Newburgh pasture 
in Sutton {under Whitestone Cliffe] for specified numbers of animals from 


1 canonicos, MS. 

2 Not ftltzo Drch. as in M.A. 3 Blank in MS. 

* Chapter IV, §6. The fee included 10 car. in Sutton under Whitestone 
Cliffe, a mile west of Hood. 

5 Feodarium Priovatus Dunelm., Surtees Soc., p. 1xxxvi. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 209 


their place of Hood ;! thus recognizing that the latter was the priory’s 
possession. 


122. Quitclaim by Richard Malebisse to Newburgh priory of the 
right which he claimed in the canons’ cell of Hood. [1204-10] 


Pd. in Mon. Ang., vi, 322. 


Ricardus Malebisse omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis salutem. 
Sciatis me quietum clamasse de me et de heredibus meis in perpetuum 
religionis intuitu et pro animabus omnium antecessorum meorum Deo 
et ecclesie beate Marie de Novo Burgo et canonicis ibidem Deo servi- 
entibus totum clamium quod habui et jus quod clamavi me habere in 
cella eorundem canonicorum et pertinentiis ejus que appellatur Hode ; 
et hanc quietam clamationem feci ego Ricardus Malebisse pro me et 
pro heredibus meis. Ut autem hec eadem quieta clamantia rata per- 
maneat eam presenti carta confirmavi. Testibus, domino Guarino 
abbate Rieuall[is], domino Laurencio priore de Giseburne, Radulfo 
camerario, Drogone de Harum, Alano Malecake, Rogero de Scurs, 
Galfrido de Toringni, Roberto Fossard, Gaufrido Fossard, Thoma 
de Lasceles, Willelmo de Busci, Willelmo Darel, Willelmo Britone, 
Gilberto de Mainil, Stephano de Mainil, Rogero Calvo, Gaufrido de 
Ampleford. 


The grantor was son of William Malebisse of Acaster Malbis and 
grandson of Hugh Malebisse, an early steward of Roger de Mowbray.? He 
issued a quitclaim to Byland abbey of his right in Old Byland, 1186-89. 
He was the founder of Newbo abbey, co. Lincoln, and died in 1210.4 Warin 

abbot of Rievaulx died in 1211; Geoffrey his predecessor became abbot 
in 1204.5 


(v) HOVETON 


123. Record of the gift made at the request of Robert d’Aunay, 
master of St. Michael’s hospital, Whitby, by Gundreda wife of 
Nigel d’Aubigny, for the soul of her husband and for Roger de 
Mowbray their son, of 2 bovates of land in Hoveton [near 
Welburn] with a toft; which were [afterwards] held of the 
hospital by Rievaulx abbey at a yearly rent of 6s., abbot Ailred 
undertaking to help the hospital in the provision of clothing 
and other alms at Martinmas. [1130-38] 


Whitby Chartulary, B.M. Add. MS. 4715, f. 178. Pd. in Whitby 
Chartulary, ii, no. 572. 


cee fede Quidam vero monachus de Whiteby Robertus de Alneto 
nomine erat magister predicti hospitalis [sancti Michaelis archangeli 
.... de Whiteby] qui petiit dominam Gundredam uxorem Nigelli de 
Albini que dedit sancto Michaeli et predicto hospitali et fratribus 

1 Mon. Ang., vi, 322. 

2 E.Y.C., iii, p. 456, for a pedigree of the family. 

3 [bid., no. 1837 in the section on the Malet Fee, where other charters 

of the family are pd. 


4 Ibid., pp. 456, 459. 
5 Chron. Melvose, facsimile ed., pp. 52, 55. 


210 STUTEVILLE. FEE 


illius loci in elemosinam perpetuam pro anima viri sui et pro Rogero 
de Moubray filio eorum et pro seipsa duas bovatas terre in Houeton’ 
cum uno tofto quas monachi Rievall[enses] tenent de predicto hospitali 
reddentes ipsi hospitali annuatim sex solidos ad Pentecosten. Con- 
cessit vero et promisit bone memorie Ailredus abbas Rieuallis et 
conventus ejusdem loci quando! receperunt predictas duas bovatas 
terre cum uno tofto, tenendas eas de predicto hospitali, adjuvare et 
succurrere predicto hospitali annuatim et fratribus eyusdem loci in 
necessitatibus eorum, scilicet de veteribus vestimentis et aliis addita- 
mentis que dari voluerint ad festum sancti Martini in elemosinam ... . 


This record is taken from an account of the foundation and early history 
of St. Michael’s hospital for lepers at Spital Bridge, which was founded in the 
time of William {de Percy], abbot of Whitby ; and it shows the close associa- 
tion of the hospital with Whitby abbey. In the other Whitby Chartulary? 
there is another record giving additional details. In this it is stated that 
the foundation was made by abbot William de Percy in 1109, and that Robert 
de Alneto, master of the hospital, sought from the said abbot 2 bovates of 
land in Hoveton with a toft which Gundreda gave to Whitby abbey—a 
slight variation from the text printed above ; and it contains the clause 
‘Et quia abbas et conventus monasterii Riewallis erant domini et possessores 
prefate ville de Houeton ideo optabant tenere de abbate et conventu de 
Whitby prefatas illas duas bovatas terre cum tofto pro sex solidis annuatim 
solvendis monasterio de Whitby’. 

It can be deduced from these records that Robert d’Aunay, a monk 
of Whitby, held the mastership of the hospital before he became a hermit 
at Hood, where he was established in 1138 (no. 115). Consequently the 
date of Gundreda’s gift was made in the period between 1130 (after her hus- 
band’s death in 1129) and 1138. It can also be deduced that Rievaulx 
abbey acquired the tenancy of the 2 bovates in the time of Ailred, who 
became abbot in 1147. In pope Alexander III’s confirmation to Rievaulx 
dated in 1160 they are described as ‘ex dono fratrum hospitalis de Witebi 
duas bovatas in Houetuna’.* 


124. Gift by Godwin, priest of [St. Michael’s] hospital, Whitby, and 
the convent, with the consent of the abbot of Whitby and brother 
Robert d’Aunay and the convent thereof, to Rievaulx abbey of 
3 bovates of land in Hoveton, rendering 3s. yearly. [? 1147-57] 

Pd. in Whitby Chartulary, ii, p. 517n, and Rievaulx Chartulary, p. 
186”, from an unknown source. 

Godwinus presbiter hospitalis pauperum de Witebi et totus 
conventus ejusdem loci omnibus ecclesie filiis salutem. Notum sit 
omnibus nos dedisse et concessisse ecclesie sancte Marie Rievallensis 
et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus consilio et concessu abbatis de 
Witebi et fratris Roberti de Alnei et conventus ipsius loci iij. bovatas 
terre in Houatune, duas quas tenuit de nobis Ernanus et tertiam unde 
Not qui as in the pd. text. 

Vol: 1, 10. 382, 

It is from these two records that the account of the origin and early 


history of the hospital in V.C.H. Yorks., iii, 334, has been drawn. 
+ Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 250. 


1 
2 
3 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 2h 


nos disseisiaverat Radulfus Beler,! ita ut. pro ipsis tribus bovatis 
reddant nobis singulis annis iij. solidos in Pentecoste pro omni servitio 
et ut simus participes orationum et beneficiorum illorum et ipsi nos- 
trorum. Si aliquis eos gravaverit de ipsa terra simul cum ipsis erimus 
in omnibus nec redditum nostrum amittemus. Hiis testibus, Hingel- 
ramo presbitero de Wellaburn’, Willelmo clerico de Kirkebi, Radulfo 
de Wath, Alano de Bulef[ord], Alano de Nagaltune, Petro de Houetun, 
Bernulfo, Roberto et Willelmo de eadem villa. 


No other reference to the grantor appears to be known ; but, although 
the amount of land and rent does not correspond, the evidence of no. 123 
suggests that Rievaulx abbey did not become possessed of the Whitby 
bovates before 1147 ; and it is possible that the acquisition was due to the 
eift to Rievaulx of what is described as the whole of Hoveton made by 
Ralph Beler in 1154-57 (no. 128). The limits of 1147-57 are therefore 
suggested tentatively. The assent of Robert d’Aunay was probably due to 
his having been the original donee, as master of the hospital, of two of the 
bovates. Nothing definite is known of him after he joined abbot Gerold’s 
monks at Hood in 1138 (see no. 115). 


125. Gift (or confirmation) by Roger de Mowbray to Rievaulx abbey 
of all Hoveton within specified bounds, as his men had peram- 
bulated them in his presence; rendering 2 marks of silver yearly 
to Robert Beler and his heirs. [1154-57] 

Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 44V (old f. 40V). 2 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 66. 

Omnibus filiis sancte matris ecclesie Rogerus de Molbrai salutem. 
Sciatis me dedisse et presenti carta confirmasse Deo et ecclesie sancte 
Marie Rieuall[is] et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus pro anima 
patris mei et matris mee et heredum meorum totam Houet[un] in 
bosco et plano pratis et aquis et pascuis et molendinis in viis et semitis 
per divisas quas homines mei perambulaverunt me presente et jura- 
mento recognoverunt et que hic nominantur : ex parte orientali scilicet 
sicut via que vocatur Meregate jacet inter boscum de Houet[un] et 
boscum de Kirkebi et tendit usque Watermor et inde sicut divise 
vadunt inter boscum de Faddemor et boscum de Houet[un] usque ad 
Hallewath; ex parte meridiana sicut divisa jacet inter cultas terras de 
Kirkebi et de Houet[un] et vadit a predicta Meregate usque in magnam 
viam et inde sicut recte divise vadunt per Houelund usque ad Balbusch 
et inde usque ad Aicwath et ita usque in Redouer. Hec omnia do eis 
libera et quieta ab omnibus consuetudinibus et auxiliis et geldis et 
assisis et placitis et querelis et omni terreno servitio et seculari exactione 
excepto quod domus Rieuall[ensis] singulis annis dabit Roberto Beler 
et heredibus ejus pro omnibus consuetudinibus duas marcas argenti 
tantum ad festum sancti Michaelis et nichil amplius. Quod si de hac 
elemosina mea vel divisis predictis eis aliquis amodo calumpniam 
fecerit temporibus meis vel temporibus heredum meorum vel etiam per 
placitum diratiocinaverit ego et heredes mei inter eos et omnes homines 
erimus et adquietabimus et warantizabimus eis hec omnia in puram 

1 Radulphus Bet’, W ; Radulfus Beler, R ; the latter doubtless correct. 

2 Marginal number xxiij. 


212 STUTEVILLE FEE 


et perpetuam elemosinam ita ut libera et integra hec elemosina nostra 
remaneat domui Rieuall[ensi] in perpetuum. Huyjus donationis et 
conventionis ego et Nigellus filius meus capitulum Eborac[ense] et 
ipsam ecclesiam Eborac[ensem] horum omnium testem et fidejussorem 
inter nos et domum Rieuall[ensem] constituimus ita ut si aliquando 
ego vel heredes mei ab hac conventione deviaverimus ipsa ecclesia ad 
hec exequenda nos ecclesiastica revocet disciplina. His testibus, 
Turstino de Munford, Willelmo de Widevilla, Rogero de Flamevilla, 
Roberto de Daiuilla, Waltero Bueri, Hugone Malab[isse], Rogero de 
Cundi, Oliuero de Busci, Radulfo de Busci, Hamundo Beler, Roberto 
Beler, Waltero de Karlet[un], Waltero de la Riuere, Radulfo de Beth- 
lum, Adam Luuel. 


Hoveton is a lost vill which lay between Welburn and Kirkby Moorside. 
The first element of the name is probably the same as that in Hovingham.! 
This may perhaps be preserved in Howkeld Head which is marked on the 
6 in. map on the main road between Kirkby Moorside and Tilehouse bridge, 
and in Howlands lying to the east of Howkeld Head. The eastern and 
southern bounds of Hoveton are given in detail in the present charter, and 
in even greater detail and with greater clarity in the confirmation charter 
of Robert de Stuteville III (no. 10), where it is seen that, although in the 
main Hoveton lay between the river Redover (now Hodge Beck) and Kirkby 
Moorside, a portion lay on the other side of the river near Kirkdale church. 
In his note to this charter Farrer considered that the eastern boundary 
extended about as far as the road from Welburn north to Fadmoor. 

In the list of benefactions to Rievaulx abbey Hoveton, as of the gift 
of Ralph Beler, is entered as the second entry after the gift of Welburn 
made by Roger de Mowbray in 1154, and next before the entry of a gift made 
by king Henry II in 1158.2, Roger de Mowbray’s gift of all Hoveton is 
included in Henry II’s confirmation,’ which, as it was witnessed by Eustace 
son of John who was slain in 1157, was issued not later than that year. 
It is clear that Ralph Beler was the original donor (see no. 127), although in. 
Roger de Mowbray’s charter the rent of 2 marks was to be paid to Robert 
Beler, who had presumably succeeded him. 

Nigel de Mowbray issued a charter confirming his father’s gift, specifying 
the boundary on the east in the same words‘ ‘et similiter per omnes divisas 
quas melius et plenius habuit tempore Henrici regis’; and it contains the 
clauses ‘Ipse etiam Robertus Beler me presente et annuente hanc pre- 
dictam terram similiter ut ego liberam et quietam in perpetuam elemosinam 
voluntate spontanea predictis monachis dedit et concessit excepto quod 
duas marcas argenti Robertus et heredes sui a predictis monachis annuatim 
recipient. Ego quidem et heredes mei totum servicium quod Robertus et 
heredes sui pro eadem terra facere debebant Deo et ecclesie Rieuallfis] 
quietum in perpetuum clamamus’. His testibus, Roberto capellano, Rogero 
de Flameuilla, Roberto de Daiuilla, Hugone Malebisse, Roberto de Beluair, 

Roberto de Busci, Roberto Beler, Willelmo de Tikehil, Baldewino clerico.5 


1 Place-Names of N.R., Eng. Place-Name Soc., pp. 51, 66. 

2 Rievaulx Charitulary, pp. 260-1. > Ibid, no. 212 (p. 152). 

+ Hallewad, so spelt. 

> Chartulary, f. 108V (old f. 101Y); numbered cxiiij ; Rievaulx Chartulary, 
no. 157, 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 213 


In view of the fact that all these witnesses, with the exception of William 
de Tickhill, witnessed another charter of Nigel de Mowbray (no. 126 note), 
the date is the same, 2.e. in the period 1163-69. 


126. Confirmation by Roger de Mowbray to Rievaulx abbey of all 
Hoveton within specified bounds, and gift of 4 bovates which 
Samson de Cornwall had held there of the gift of the grantor’s 
mother, and which the grantor had purchased for 20 marks 
from Samson and his wife, who made an affidation in the hand 
of Ralph de Belvoir, the grantor’s steward, and then in the 
hand of Ranulf [de Glanville] the sheriff, afterwards acknowledging 
their affidation in the chapter of St. Peter’s, York. [1163-69] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 45 (old f. 41).? 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 67. 


Omnibus filiis sancte matris ecclesie Rogerus de Molbrai salutem. 
Sciatis me dedisse et presenti carta confirmasse Deo et ecclesie sancte 
Marie Rieuall[is] et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus pro anima 
patris mei et matris mee et heredum meorum totam Houet[un] cum 
pertinentiis suis in bosco [as im the preceding charter to Redouer with 
the omission of the words between parte meridiana and et inde]?. 
Quatuor autem bovatas terre cum pertinentiis suis quas Samson de 
Cornuwala ex dono matris mee tenuit in predicta Houet[un] propria 
pecunia mea, id est xx. marcis argenti, ab ipso Samsone et uxore ejus 
emi et ipsi in curia mea michi eas quietas clamaverunt pro summa 
pecunie predicte sine reclamatione et calumpnia in posterum de se et 
heredibus suis et hoc propria manu sua affidaverunt in manu Radulfi 
de Belueer dapiferi mei coram tota curia mea sine malo ingenio se 
servaturos in perpetuum ac postea eandem affidationem fecerunt in 
manu Rannulfi vicecomitis coram multis testibus; postea vero pre- 
dictam affidationem in capitulo sancti Petri Eboraci recognoverunt et 
conventionaverunt quod nunquam de terra predicta reclamationem vel 
calumpniam nec per se nec per alium quemlibet facient; cartam vero 
meam quam de hac terra habebant michi reddiderunt. Hanc terram 
cum emissem et in manu mea quietam et sine alicujus calumpnia ten- 
uissem monachis predictis cum tota reliqua terra de Houet[un] in 
perpetuam elemosinam dedi et hac carta mea confirmavi. Hec omnia 
dedi eis libera et quieta ab omnibus consuetudinibus et auxiliis et 
geldis et assisis et placitis et querelis et omni terreno servitio. Quod 
si de hac elemosina [as in the preceding charter to disciplina].2 His 
testibus, Roberto capellano, Rannulfo de Glanvile vicecomite, Willelmo 
[de] Alberuilla, Roberto de Daiuilla, Hugone Maleb[isse], Rogero de 
Flammeufilla], Ricardo de Wideu[illa], Thoma de Coleu[illa], Dauid 
larder[er], Thoma filio ejus, Radulfo de Belueer, Roberto fratre ejus, 
Roberto de Busci, Adam Luuel, Ham[undo] Beler, Roberto Beler, 
Jordano le Enuaise, Nicholao de Bethlum, Gaufrido de Stultav{illa], 
Gerardo de Glanuila, Rogero [de] Bauent, Baldrico clerico. 


1 Marginal number xxiiij. 
2 Haicwath, so spelt. 
3 inter nos et monachos constituimus ; otherwise precisely the same. 


214 STUTEVILLE FEE 


The evidence given in the note to no. 129 will show that this charter 
was issued in Ranulf de Glanville’s first term of office as sheriff, that is to say 
in the period from Michaelmas 1163 to Easter 1170. The latest date is 1169; 
for Roger de Flammavville, one of the witnesses, who was the second husband 
of Juetta de Arches, widow since 1143 of Adam de Brus I, died in 1168 or in 
the following year.1 There can be little doubt that Ralph de Belueer, Roger 
de Mowbray’s steward, took his name from Belvoir.22 Hamund or Hamo 
Beler was a brother of Ralph Beler, the original donor of Hoveton ;? and 
Robert Beler was the latter’s successor (no. 125 note). Seven of the witnesses 
occur in the list of tenants in Roger de Mowbray’s carta of 1166.4 

Nigel de Mowbray issued a charter confirming the 4 bovates in much 
the same terms, adding in his confirmation of the remainder of the vill 
‘nisi quod Roberto Beler tantum duas marcas argenti pro omni servicio 
terreno persolvent’. His testibus, Rogero abbate de Bellelanda, Waltero 
priore ejusdem loci, Landrico cellarario, Roberto capellano, Roberto de 
Daiuilla, Rogero de Flamauill’, Hugone Malebissa, Radulfo [de] Belueer, 
Roberto fratre suo, Roberto de Busci, Balduino clerico.> As at least seven 
of these witnesses occur in his father’s charter the two charters were evidently 
issued on the same occasion ; cf. also the notes to nos. 125, 151. 


127. Confirmation by Roger archbishop of York to Rievaulx abbey 
of the vill of Hoveton, given by Ralph Beler and confirmed by 
Roger de Mowbray in the archbishop’s presence. [1154-59] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 156V (old f. 149). ® 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 224. 


Rogerus Dei gratia Eborac[ensis] archiepiscopus omnibus sancte 
ecclesie filiis tam presentibus quam futuris salutem. Quod alicui 
ecclesie donatione fidelium juste constat esse collatum episcopali 
debet auctoritate confirmari ne quod pia intentione factum est pos- 
terorum possit malignitate dissolvi, inde est quod donationem quam 
Radulfus Beler fecit in presentia nostra ecclesie sancte Marie Rieuallfis] 
de tota villa Houetone cum omnibus appenditiis suis in perpetuam 
et liberam elemosinam et cyrographo confirmavit et quam Rogerus 
de Molbrai in presentia nostra concessit et carta sua confirmavit nos 
ratam habemus et presenti carta confirmamus sicut in ipsius Radulfi 
cyrographo et in carta Rogeri de Molbrai cernitur confirmatum, pro- 
hibentes ne quis ausu temerario antedictam donationem presumat 
solvere vel aliquo modo injuste perturbare. Si quis vero quod utiliter 
contractum est maliciose presumpserit solvere indignationem Dei et 
nostram se noverit incursurum. Hujus confirmationis testes sunt, 
Johannes Letold’ canonicus Ebor[acensis], Osbertus Harundel canonicus 
Beuerlac[ensis], Willelmus capellanus, Rogerus Hurel, Petrus de 
Carcasona, Radulfus de Sancto Georgio, clerici domini archiepiscopi. 
Valete. 

iL BNC 1d p45 

? Another example of his occurrence as steward (spelling Beiaveir) is 

given in a charter of Roger de Mowbray relating to Wothersome in Bardsey 
(Yorks. Deeds, iii, no. 425); and see some further references to him at no. 99 
above. 3 Fountains Chartulary, ti, 646. * Red Bk. Exch., pp. 419-20. 

5 Chartulary, f. 46V (old f. 42); numbered xxv ; Rievaulx Chartulary, 

no. 68. ®° Marginal number clxxix. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 219 


There is nothing in Roger de Mowbray’s charter (no. 125) to suggest 
that it was issued in the archbishop’s presence; and it may be that he 
issued another shortly afterwards. It is, however, unlikely that any great 
interval elapsed before the archbishop issued this confirmation. In any 
case 1159 can be assigned as the latest limit as John son of Letold, a canon 
of York, had probably become an archdeacon by then.! The latest possible 
date is 1164 in the absence of a legatine style. 


128. Notification by Robert the dean and the chapter of St. Peter’s, 
York, of the agreement between Rievaulx abbey and Ralph 
Beler, who gave all Hoveton to the abbey with the concession of 
Roger de Mowbray; and of the latter’s confirmation made in 
their presence. [1154-57] 

Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 159 (old £. 142/2).2 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 230. 

Robertus decanus et capitulum sancti Petri de Eboraco omnibus 
filiis sancte ecclesie tam presentibus quam futuris salutem. Sciatis 
quod hec est conventio que inter monachos Rieuall[enses] et Radulfum 
Beler et heredes ejyus in presentia nostra facta est. Radulfus Beler et 
heredes ejus concesserunt Deo et ecclesie sancte Marie Rieuall[is] et 
monachis ibidem Deo servientibus concessu Rogeri de Molbrai et 
heredum suorum Houetunam totam cum omnibus rebus ad eandem 
villam pertinentibus in bosco et plano et pratis et aquis et pasturis cum 
omnibus etiam hominibus in eadem villa manentibus liberam et 
quietam ab omni terreno servitio et auxiliis et assisis et geldis et omni 
omnino consuetudine et exactione, tenendam in perpetuam elemosinam 
ita ut ipsi monachi singulis annis reddant Radulfo Beler et heredibus 
ejus pro ipsa terra et pro libertate premissa ij. marcas argenti quas 
dabunt singulis annis vel ipsi Radulfo vel heredibus ejus vel illi quem 
ipsi eis nominatim designaverint vel nuntio quem cum certis inter- 
signis ad eos miserint. Hanc donationem et conventionem Rogerus de 
Molbrai in presentia nostra predictis monachis carta sua confirmavit. 


The agreement between Ralph Beler and the abbey was made not 
later than 1157, for in Roger de Mowbray’s charter (no. 125) the rent of 
2 marks was to be paid to Robert Beler ; and this notification was probably 
issued before Robert had succeeded. The dean was therefore Robert de 
Gant and not Robert Butevilain.3 


129. Notification by Robert the dean and the chapter of St. Peter’s, 
York, of the quitclaim made in their presence by Samson de 
Cornwall and Hestilda his wife to Rievaulx abbey of all right 
in 4 bovates of land in Hoveton. [1163-69] 

Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 160 (old f. 143). 

Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 232. 
Robertus decanus et capitulum ecclesie sancti Petri Eboraci 
omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis videntibus et audientibus litteras 
istas salutem in Domino. Notum sit vobis Samsonem de Cornewalia 


1 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxvi, 418. 2 Marginal number clxxxv. 
3 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxiv, 370-1. * Marginal number clxxxvij. 


216 STUTEVILLE FEE 


et Hestildam uxorem ejus in presentia nostra quietam clamasse monachis 
de Rieuallf{e] hereditatem et omne jus quod habuerunt in terra Houet- 
[one] scilicet in iiij° bovatis terre et in omnibus pertinentiis suis in 
bosco et plano et ceteris omnibus pro se et heredibus suis. Hoc autem 
in presentia nostra juraverunt quod nec ipsi nec aliquis eorum heres 
natus vel nasciturus nec aliquis alius per eos clamarent hereditatem in 
terra illa nec predictos monachos de Rieuall[e] super predicta terra in 
aliquo vexarent. Et si aliquis heres vel alius ipsos monachos super 
eadem terra vexaret ipsi pro posse suo quemlibet ab hujusmodi vexatione 
compescerent. Huis testibus, Roberto decano, Willelmo cantore, 
Roberto magistro scolarum, Alano canonico, Ernulfo Sotevag[ina], 
Roberto filio Willelmi grossi, Stephano decano, Waltero Fagan[ulfi], 
Johanne filio Turgisilii Hamo[ne] vicario cantoris, Reginaldo filio 
Willelmi, Geruasio filio Romundi, Hugone medico, Hugone ministro 
archiepiscopi, Willelmo albo, Alano de Alcaz, Ricardo Logardo, 
Waltero fratre ejus, Nicholao! parmentario, Benedicto filio Reinerii, 
Willelmo filio Hereberti, Willelmo Malesoueres.? 


The affidation acknowledged by Samson and his wife in the chapter 
of St. Peter’s is mentioned in Roger de Mowbray’s charter (no. 126) as 
having been made subsequently to their affidation in the hand of Ranulf 
[de Glanville] the sheriff. The earliest date is therefore 1163. The latest 
possible date is 1177, when Robert master of the schools was drowned ;% 
but as it is probable that William [d’Eu] was succeeded by Hamo as precentor 
of York in the period c. 1170-1174,* it can be deduced that this notification 
was issued before Ranulf de Glanville began his second term of office as 
sheriff which was not earlier than Michaelmas 1175, and that therefore the 
latest date is the end of his first term of office at Easter 1170. This latest 
date can be put back to 1169, as the notification was clearly issued earlier 
than Roger de Mowbray’s charter (no. 126). 


130. Notification by Robert the dean and the chapter of St. Peter’s, 
York, that in the presence of the chapter Peter de Hoveton 
quitclaimed to Rievaulx abbey 5 bovates of land in Hoveton 
which he held of the abbey; for which the abbey gave him 20 
marks of silver and a horse, and his wife 2 cows, 10 sheep and 
10 lambs. [1161-c. 1180] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 159V (old f. 142). > 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 231. 


Robertus decanus et capitulum ecclesie sancti Petri Eboraci 
omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis. Notum sit vobis quod Petrus 
de Houet[una] coram fratribus capituli nostri et multis aliis reddidit 
et quietas clamavit Deo et sancte Marie Rieuall[is}] et monachis ibidem 
Deo servientibus v. bovatas terre in Houatuna quas de eis tenuerat 
cum omnibus earum pertinentiis liberas et quietas sine omni recla- 
matione in posterum de se et de omnibus heredibus suis; et hoc 

1 Not ficardo as in the pd. edition. 

2 Several witnesses have the abbreviation mark representing the 
nominative ‘us’. 

3 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxv, 131. * Lobia Dp. Lak. 

5. Marginal number clxxxvj. , 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 27 


legitime et firmiter tenendum super altare beati Petri optulit et propria 
manu coram omnibus nobis affidavit. Monachi vero propter hec 
dederunt eidem Petro et heredibus suis xx. marcas argenti et unum 
equum et uxori sue duas vaccas et x. oves et decem agnos. Hujus rei 
testes sunt, Clemens abbas sancte Marie Eboraci et Philippus prior 
sancte Trinitatis Eboraci, Gaufridus prior sancte Marie, Willelmus 
filtus Daniel monachus ejusdem loci, Germanus cantor ejusdem loci, 
Godefridus sacrista ejusdem loci. 


Clement was abbot of St. Mary’s from 1161 to 1184. Philip was prior 
of Holy Trinity almost certainly earlier than 1154 and at least as late as 
1175, though probably not later than c. 1180.! 


131. Notification by Engelram [rural] dean of Ryedale and Pickering 
Lythe of the quitclaim made in the presence of the brethren of 
the [ruri-decanal] chapter by Sunnive wife of Lambert de Hove- 
ton and her two daughters to Rievaulx abbey of a bovate of land 
and two assarts of 5 acres [in Hoveton] which they had held of 
the abbey; and of their affidation in his hand in the church of 
All Saints, Helmsley, in the presence of two archdeacons, John 
son of Letold and Ralph d’Aunay; for which the abbey gave to 
the ladies 6 marks of silver and a cow. 

[c. 1160-74] 
Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 163 (old f. 146). ? 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 239. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Engelrammus decahus de 
Ridale et Pikeringalith salutem. Notum sit vobis quod Sunniue uxor 
Lamberti de Houetun et due filie eyus Sigerith et Orenge coram fratribus 
capituli nostri et multis aliis quieta clamaverunt Deo et sancte Marie 
Rieuall[is] et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus unam bovatam terre 
et duo sarta que continent v. acras terre que de eisdem monachis 
tenuerant cum omnibus earum pertinentiis libera et quieta sine omni 
reclamatione in posterum de se et de omnibus heredibus suis; et hoc 
legitime et firmiter tenendum in manu mea coram omnibus affidaverunt 
in ecclesia Omnium Sanctorum apud Helmeslai in presentia duorum 
archidiaconorum, Johannis scilicet filii Lethold’ et Radulfi del Alnai. 
Monachi vero propter hoc dederunt eisdem mulieribus sex marchas 
argenti et unam vaccam. His testibus, Roberto filio Willelmi sub- 
archidiacono, Hugone de Ruddebi et Waltero fratre ejus, Willelmo de 
Laceles, Waltero decano de Bulemer, Willelmo clerico de Kirkebi, 
Roberto capellano de Helmeslai, Roberto clerico de Martun, Roberto 
de Bruntun, Petro de Surdeuals et Willelmo fratre ejus, Alano de 
Buleford’, Radulfo filio Margar[ete], Petro de Houetun. 


In his note on this charter Farrer deduced, as he had suggested else- 
where, that John son of Letold and Ralph d’Aunay were joint-archdeacons 
of York, i.e. of the West Riding. It is difficult to accept this view in the 
absence of more precise evidence ; and it is likely that each of them held a 
separate archdeaconry. John son of Letold was certainly archdeacon of 


ee Gm ges Sera pe 
2 Marginal number cxciilj. SEW G. typ, 442, 


YAts) STUTEVILLE FEE 


Cleveland in the period 1162-67 ; and it can be suggested that this charter 
was issued when he had become archdeacon of Nottingham, being succeeded 
in Cleveland by Ralph d’Aunay, c. 1165-72.1. Ralph d’Aunay became 
archdeacon of York not later than 1174.? 

Robert son of William the sub-archdeacon can presumably be identified 
with Robert the vice-archdeacon, who witnessed a Rievaulx charter not 
earlier than 1161 ;3 and probably with the Robert the vice-archdeacon who 
occurs in a document relating to the church of Kirklevington (in Cleveland) 
in the period 1174-80.* 

The grantor of this charter occurs as Engelram the dean as the first 
witness to a charter of Adam de Boltby to Rievaulx abbey, 1154-60 (no. 90). 
It is likely, although no proof is available, that he can be identified with 
Hingelram the priest of Welburn who witnessed no. 124 of date ?1147-57. 


132. Mandate of pope Alexander [III] to the bishop of Exeter, the 
abbot of St. Mary’s York, and the dean of York, ordering the 
restoration to Rievaulx abbey of the wood and newly cultivated 
land of Hoveton, unjustly seized by Robert de Stuteville [IIT] 
and William his son, under pain of excommunication; and of 
other seizures made by Roger de Mowbray and Nigel his son 
and others. At Tusculum. 20 Feb. [1171-81] 

Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. 1, f. 182 (old f. 165).> 
Pd. in Rtevaulx Chartulary, no. 262; and in Holtzmann, 
Papsturkunden in England, i, no. 191. 

Alexander episcopus servus servorum Dei venerabili fratri 
Exoniensi episcopo et dilectis filiis abbati sancte Marie Eboracensis et 
decano Eboracensi salutem et apostolicam benedictionem. Ex trans- 
missa conquestione dilectorum filiorum nostrorum abbatis et fratrum 
Rievall[ensium] ad aures nostras pervenit quod Robertus de Stuteuilla 
et Willelmus filius ejus eis nemus de Houetun et novalia territoril 
ejusdem ville et terram et boscum qui dicitur Midelhouet contra 
justiciam abstulerunt et quedam alia in anime sue perniciem non 
dubitarunt auferre, unde quoniam jura predictorum fratrum tanto 
propensiori studio et sollicitudine conservare debemus quanto eorum 
religio apud Deum et homines carior et acceptior esse probatur frater- 
nitati vestre per apostolica scripta mandamus quatinus infra xxx. dies 
post harum susceptionem predictos viros sollicite moneatis et districte 
auctoritate nostra compellatis ut prefato abbati et fratribus prescripta 
nemora novalia et terram et cetera ablata sine mora et difficultate resti- 
tuant et in pace deinceps et quiete dimittant dampna data resarciant 
vel in presentia vestra plenam super his omnibus justiciam exhibeant. 
Si autem monitis vestris obtemperare contempserint eos nostra freti 
auctoritate publice accensis candelis excommunicetis et terram eorum 
interdicatis et si in excommunicatione decesserint eis sepulturam 
prohibeatis ecclesiasticam indulgeri. Preterea de Rogerio de Molbrai 
et Nigello filio ejus, Alano de Bulefordia, Roberto de Vado, Radulfo 
fratre eyus et Euerardo de Ros et Roberto filio® Ernisii, nisi predicto 

1 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxvi, pp. 271, 416-9. 

2 Ibid., p. 421. 3 ELY.C., i, no. 562. 

4 Guisborough Chartulary, ii, no. 718. 

5 Marginal number ccxxvj. © filu, MS. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 219 


abbati et fratribus ablata restituerint et dampna data resarcierint vel 
sub vestro examine justicie plenitudinem exhibuerint eandem justiciam 
faciatis. Dat’ Tusculan[i] x. kal. Martii. 


Everard de Ros, whose father Robert de Ros died in 1162-63, was still 
a minor in 1166.1 The period for the mandate is that given by Dr. Holtz- 
mann. It is likely that the date is earlier than 24 March 1175-6, when a final 
settlement was apparently made of one of the disputes (no. 159); for it is 
probable that Alan de Bulefordia [Bowforth] and Alan de Ryedale were 
one and the same person (see the note to no. 157). 


(vi) HUTTON LE HOLE 


133. Gift by Hugh son of Baldric to abbot Stephen and the abbey 
of St. Mary, York, of 4 carucates of land in Kirby Misperton, 

3 carucates in Normanby, 8 carucates in Hutton [le Hole], with 

appurtenances from the river Dove to the boundary between 

Spaunton and Hutton and on the moor to the boundary between 

that land and Cleveland. [c. 1085-1093] 

MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 157V, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. Pd. in Mon. Ang., iii, 550, from the same. 

Ego Hugo filius Baldrici omnibus fidelibus tam presentibus quam 
futuris salutem. Sciatis me dedisse et concessisse Deo et abbacie 
sancte Marie Eboraci et Stephano abbati et monachis ibidem Deo 
servientibus in puram et perpetuam elemosinam 1i1i).°7 carrucatas terre 
in Kirchebi Mispertun et iij. carrucatas in Normanebi in Hotun viij.t¢ 
carrucatas terre in bosco et in plano in moris et in pascuis in stagnis 
et in aquis et in omnibus pertinentiis suis ab aqua Duue? usque ad 
divisam que est inter Spantun® et Hotun et in mora usque ad divisam 
qua dividitur eadem terra a Cliflandia. Hanc elemosinam dedi ut sit 
libera et quieta ab omni terreno servitio pro anima domini mei regis 
Willelmi et pro memetipso et pro animabus omnium parentum meorum. 
Testibus hiis, Berengario de Thoneia, Willelmo filio Tirri, Rodberto 
capellano, Ricardo milite, et aliis multis. 


Land in the three places named formed berewicks of Hugh son of 
Baldric’s manor of Kirkby Moorside at the Domesday survey. In Normanby 
3 carucates were also terra regis ; and in the Summary, where Hugh son of 
Baldric’s land there is not recorded, it is stated that the king held 3 carucates 
and in the same place the abbot [of St. Mary’s] held 3 carucates of the king. 
William I’s gift of 3 carucates in Normanby was included in William II’s 
confirmation charter not later than 1093, where the gifts of Hugh son of 
Baldric, also included, correspond with those which he made by the present 
charter, except that the amount of land in Kirby Misperton is given as 
3 instead of 4 carucates.* It is uncertain whether his charter was issued 
before or after the death of the Conqueror. 

Of the witnesses the first was Berenger de Toeni, the Domesday tenant- 
in-chief ; and the second, who as William the knight held Wetherby of 


1 Complete Peerage, new ed., xi, 91. 

2 Dune, Dodsw. 3 Not Swantum as in Mon. Ang. 

1B NoGe 1, Moy 2907) the amount is: aiso’ 3 car. an enry I1’s 
confirmation (ibid., no. 354). 


220 STUTEVILLE FEE 


William de Percy at the Survey, witnessed as William son of Terry a charter 
of Alan son of William de Percy to Whitby abbey in the early years of the 
twelfth century. 


134. Gift by Geoffrey abbot of St. Mary’s, York, to Gospatric son 
of Waltheof and his heirs of a carucate of land in Hutton [le 
Hole], rendering 2s. yearly and for tallage as much as would be 
rendered by a third of a carucate in Kirby Misperton; the 
grantees to keep no woodland mares nor a sheepfold for more 
than 60 sheep. [c. 1121-c. 1137] 


Chartulary of St. Mary’s, York (Dean and Chapter, larger volume), 
f. 159¥ (old f. 66V), no. 19. 


Notum sit omnibus posteris nostris et omnibus videntibus vel 
audientibus literas has quod ego Gosfridus abbas ecclesie sancte Marie 
Ebor[acensis] cum communi assensu capituli nostri dedi Gospatricio 
filio Walthef’ et heredibus suis in feodo unam carrucatam terre in 
Hoton, et ipsi reddent inde unoquoque anno duos solidos ad Pentecosten 
et festum sancti Martini; et quando commune taillagium mittemus 
super terram nostram reddet illa carrucata quant[um] tertia pars 
unius carucate in Chirchaby Mispeton’. Et sciendum quod non 
habebunt ibi equas silvestres nec habebunt ovile nisi ad plus usque 
ad lx. oves. Testibus, Rogero presbitero, Daniele dapifero, Willelmo 
dispensatore, Nicholao de Miton, Roberto filio Haschwi. 


In view of the next charter it is clear that Gospatric son of Waltheot 
and Gospatric de Brawby were the same person. Brawby, par. Salton in Rye- 
dale wapentake, was attached to the prebend of Salton, which became a 
tenure of the prior of Hexham by the gift of archbishop Thurstan.? Gos- 
patric was the ancestor of a family known by the names of Brawby, Ridale 
and Habton ; and by reason of a grant of lands in Roxburghshire by king 
David I to Walter, Gospatric’s eldest son, he was the ancestor of the 
Riddells of Scotland.s Asketil or Ansketil, Gospatric’s second son, who 
succeeded his brother Walter, held a knight’s fee of the Bulmer fee in 
1166.+ He had held of Bertram de Bulmer the carucate in Welburn which 
Bertram gave to Rievaulx abbey.’ This was presumably the carucate which 
Asceria widow of Ansketil de Habton held in dower and confirmed to the 
abbey.® 

The dates when this charter and the next were issued fall in the period 
during which Geoffrey was abbot of St. Mary’s, though the dates of his 
. accession and death are uncertain.’ 


1 E.Y.C;, 0, no. 856 and note. 

4 100d. 2, p. 119, 

3 Ibid., pp. 114-20, where full details and references will be found. A 
pedigree of the Habton family, showing the descent in the male line to the 
beginning of the fourteenth century from Nicholas de Ridale or de Habton, 
a younger son of Patrick de Ridale son of Ansketil son of Gospatric, is 
given in Yorks. Deeds, v, app. ii, pp. 181-2. 

EN Oe, OT TY. 

5 [bid., no. 1049. For other Welburn charters see the section below. 

® [bid., no. 780. 

’ The point is éxamined in 7bid., iv, pp. 136-7. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 221 


135. Grant by Geoffrey abbot of St. Mary’s, York, to Gospatric de 
Brawby of as much in wood and plain, etc., for his eighth caru- 
cate in Hutton [le Hole] as any other carucate of the vill had, 
with pannage of his own men, an eighth part of the agistment 
of swine of strangers, and an eighth share of the sale of wood. 

[c. 1121-c. 1137] 


Chartulary of St. Mary’s, York (Dean and Chapter, larger volume), 
f. 176 (old f. 98), no. 25. 

Omnibus! audientibus vel legentibus literas has G[osfridus] 
abbas [sancte MaJrie Ebor[acensis] omnisque conventus ejusdem 
ecclesie salutem. [Sciatis quod ego] G[osfridus] abbas cum communi 
consilio totius capituli nostri concessi [Gospatricio de Bragaby]? et 
heredibus suis octave carrucate sue de Hotun in bosco et [plano in 
pascuis et] aquis t[antu]m quantum j. alie car[rucate] terre de eadem 
villa; e[t ipse Gospatricius ca]piet de suis propriis hominibus cum 
tempus fuerit totum pas[nagium sicut] abbas vel prepositus ejus 
accipiet de suis propriis hominibus; [et si ali]quando evenerit quod 
extranei homines miserint porcos in bos[co ipse Gospatricius] habebit 
viij partem de tac’® et abbas vel minister ejus [habebit alias] vij. partes ; 
et si aliquando evenerit quod abbas vel preposit[us ejus] vendiderit 
boscum ipse G[ospatricius] habebit vii) partem precii. 


136. Confirmation by Roger de Mowbray to the abbey of St. Mary, 
York, of the vill of Hutton le Hole from the river Dove to the 
boundary of Spaunton and on the moor to the boundary of 
Cleveland ; and of all the lands and tithes of the grant of Nigel 
d’Aubigny, his father. [1142-c. 1150] 

Chartulary of St. Mary’s, York (Dean and Chapter, larger volume), 
f, L7G (old: 1. 98"); no: 27. 

[Rogerus] de Moubray omnibus fidelibus et ministris et omnibus 
hominibus suis Francis et [Anglis] salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et 
presenti carta mea confirmasse Deo [et sancte Marie] Ebor[acensis] et 
monachis ibidem Deo servientibus in puram et perpetuam ele[mosinam] 
villam que vocatur Hoton in Ridale cum omnibus pertinentiis suis [in 
bosco in] plano in moris in pascuis in stagnis in aquis in terris [arabili- 
bus et] non arabilibus et in omnibus aisiamentis ad eandem villam 
[pertinentibus] infra villam et extra ab aqua que vocatur Douue* 
usque ad [divisam] que est inter Spaunton et eandem villam et in 
mora usque [ad divisam] qua dividitur eadem terra a Clyueland. 
Preterea concedo et .... et confirmo eisdem monachis omnes terras 
et decimas que sunt [de conces]sione et advocatione et warantatione 
patris mei Nigelli de Albi[nio. Has it]aque elemosinas concessi ut 
sint libere et quiete ab omni terreno [servitio] pro anima patris mei 
Nigelli de Albinio et pro memetipso et pro animabus [omnium] 
parentum meorum. Huis testibus, Rogero abbate de Beeland, Roberto 
de Alne[to], Sampsone de Albinio, Radulfo de Bellu[n], et multis aliis. 


1 MS. damaged for this charter and the next ; suggested restorations 
in brackets from Farrer’s transcripts. 2 “G, de Bragaby’ in the heading. 

3 Probably tac[is]|. The word takcum, a due paid for feeding swine in 
forests, is given in Medieval Latin Word-list, p. 421. 

+ Apparently written Doune. 


222 STUTEVILLE -FEE 


The first witness gives the earliest limit of date ; and Robert d’Aunay 
(see nos. 115, 123) suggests a date not much later. Robert de Stuteville IIL 
confirmed the vill to St. Mary’s in the period 1154-83 (no. 6). 


(vii) KILBURN 


137. Restoration by Nigel de Mowbray to John son of Robert de 
~ Daiville of the land which Robert de Daiville, his father, had 
held of the grantor’s father and himself. [1185-91] 


Farrer MS., from the original in the possession of Mr. William 
Brown of Sowerby near Thirsk. Abst. in Yorks. Deeds, iii, no. 
424. 


Nigellus de Mubrai omnibus hominibus suis tam Francis quam 
Anglis salutem. Sciatis me reddidisse Johanni filio Roberti de Daivila 
totam terram que fuit patris sui sicut liberius vel melius eam umquam 
tenuit Robertus de Daivila pater suus de patre meo et de me. Ideo 
volo atque precipio quatinus predictus Johannes habeat et teneat 
terram suam libere et quiete et honorifice in pratis aquis pascuis semitis 
viis bosco plano et omnibus aliis rebus et consuetudinibus ad eandem 
terram pertinentibus absque omni consuetudine et gravamine, faciendo 
michi et heredibus meis servitium quod ad predictam terram pertinet 
secundum quod continetur in carta patris mei et mea. Hiis testibus, 
Rogero de Sancto Martino, Radulfo de Cramavilfla], Radulfo de 
Bealveer, Nicholao de Beelun, Adam Luvel, Roberto de Chast[? ello],! 
Ricardo Bacun, Waltero de Daivila, Hugone de Munfort, Nicholao de 
Daivila, Eudone de Daivila, Rogero de Daivila, Willelmo de Daivila, 
Willelmo Malerbe, et multis aliis clericis et laicis. 


Seal : yellow wax, round, 24 n.; equestrian, sword, heater-shaped 
shield with knob, long surcoat, broad saddlecloth; v¥4 SIGILLVM NIGELLI 
DE MOLBRAI. 


This charter was presumably issued later than the departure of Roger 
de Mowbray for Palestine, where he arrived about Easter 1186 ; the grantor 
died on crusade in 1191; see the introductory notes to this Chapter. 

As Robert de Daiville had held Kilburn of Roger de Mowbray (no. 17), 
it can be supposed that the land restored to his son included the holding 
there. The evidence of nos. 140-1 shows that Robert also had an interest 
in Nawton, par. Kirkdale. It was, perhaps, an earlier Robert de Daiville 
who occurs as lord of Kilburn in 1147 (note to no. 138). It is recorded that 
Nigel d’Aubigny who died in 1129, had given to his special friend, Robert 

- Davil or de Ayvile by name, the vill of Egmanton, co. Nottingham, which 
he had received by the gift of Henry 1.2, An account of the Daiville family 
is given in The Complete Peerage, new ed., iv, 130. 

No account of the history of Kilburn is included in V.C.H., North 
Riding, the parish and that of Felixkirk both being omitted. The temporary 
interest of Robert de Stuteville III, as an under-tenancy of Mowbray, is 
seen in charter no. 17. A reference in the Monasticon (vol. vi, 1118) states 
that the manor of Kilburn had been given by Henry I to the archbishop and 


1 Or, perhaps, Chast{ellione}. 
2 Mon. Ang., v, 346 ; and vi, 320. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 220 


chapter of Rouen, the authority cited being Close Roll 7 John, m. 1d. This 
invites suspicion, and it is clear that the manor was not Kilburn, but Kilham.! 


138. Quitclaim by John de Daiville to Byland abbey of all right and 
common on the eastern side of specified bounds [in Kilburn]. 
[1185-c. 1210] 
Byland Chartulary, Egerton MS. 2823, f. 17 (old f. 105). 


Omnibus sancte ecclesie filiis presentibus et futuris Johannes de 
Dayuill’ salutem. Sciatis me remisisse monachis sancte Marie de 
Bellalfanda] et quietum clamasse a me et ab heredibus meis totum 
jus et communam que ego vel aliqui antecessorum meorum unquam 
habuimus ab orientali parte istarum divisarum, scilicet sicut fossatum 
sub Midelberga vadit de foris pratum ipsorum usque in Rutendebek 
et sic sursum Rutendebek usque in magnam viam que venit de mora 
et sic per eandem viam ab occidentali parte de Loftscogha usque in 
Flaxepodalam. Quicquid commune et juris ego vel aliqui meorum 
antecessorum habuimus inter predictas divisas...... 2!et terram 
ipsorum de Camb remisi et quietum clamavi eis a me et ab heredibus 
meis ad faciendum inde quicquid voluerint in terra et bosco et mora 
in perpetuam elemosinam liberam solutam et quietam ab omni terreno 
servicio et exactione seculari, pro salute anime mee et patris et matris 
mee et uxoris mee et omnium antecessorum et heredum meorum. 
Hiis testibus, W[illelmo] de Corneburgo, Willelmo de Buscy, Gikello 
de Smedtona, etc. 


William de Cornbrough, Gikel de Smeaton and Geoffrey Fossard 
(who witnessed the next charter) occur together in 1207 and in the period 
1204-09.3 The first of these occurs in the period 1175-89.4 The date for 
this charter and the next is probably towards the end of the period suggested. 

Several years earlier there had been disputes with the monks. In 
abbot Philip’s history of the house it is recorded that Robert de Davidvilla, 
lord of Kilburn, obstructed the work of the monks, alleging that they were 
enclosing a great part of the ground belonging to his vill of Kilburn ; in 
1147 abbot Roger crossed to Normandy to complain to Roger de Mowbray 
of this and other wrongs, taking letters from dame Gundreda with the 
news of the plea moved in the king’s court by Robert de Stuteville and 
William his brother against her son. Roger de Mowbray wrote to Robert de 
Davidvilla, Gwido de Boltby and Hugh Malbisse, lord of Scawton, ordering 
them to desist from their oppressions. Robert de Davidvilla paid small 
attention at first, but afterwards made peace ; and on his return Roger de 
Mowbray made a great ditch on the west side of the abbey (then at Stocking) 
between the ground given to the monks and the ground of Robert de 
Davidvilla.> It was evidently this ditch, below Middlebergh, which is 
mentioned in the present charter. 


1 The form given in Rot. Claus, i, 70a, is Kilbun. But several charters 
relating to Kilham (Killum) and its connexion with Rouen, the donor being 
Henry II, are given in £.Y.C., i, nos. 433-40 ; cf. also the evidence of the 
Pipe Rolls, e.g. Pipe Roll 2 Hen. II, p. 26, and subsequent rolls. 

2 Blurred ; possibly versus orientem. 

3 BLY ..C,, iw, nos: 798, 833 note’; ni, nio: 1314. 

4 Thid., ii, no. 838 ; ili, no. 1412. >» Mon, Ang, V¥, 351-2. 


294 STUTEVILLE FEE 


139. Agreement between Byland abbey and John de Daiville by 
which if the beasts of John or his heirs or villeins of Kilburn 
crossed the bounds [specified as in the last charter] they should 
be driven back without complaint, no claim for common beyond 
the bounds being made on that account, saving the right of the 
freeholders in Kilburn. [1185-c. 1210] 


Byland Chartulary, Egerton MS. 2823, f. 17 (old f. 105). 


Sciant omnes tam presentes quam futuri ita convenisse inter 
monachos de Bell{alanda] et Johannem de Dayuilla: Quod si averia 
ipsius Johannis vel heredum vel villanorum suorum de Killeburna 
absque custo[dia? facta transi]erint istas divisas, scilicet a fossato sub 
Midelbergh quod vadit deforis pratum monachorum usque in Rutend- 
bec et sic sursum per Rutendbec usque in magnam viam que venit de 
mora et sic per eandem viam ab occidente de Loftschaga usque in 
Flaxepoldalam, sine causa reddentur ita quod ex hoc aliquam com- 
munam non habebunt nec clamabant ultra predictas divisas versus 
monachos, salvo jure libere tenencium in Killebruna. His testibus, 
Nigello de Luuetoft, Galfrido Fossard, Hugone de Munford, Gilkello 
de Smedtona, etc. 


(viii) NAWTON 


140. Confirmation by Robert de Surdeval to Rievaulx abbey of all 
the bounds between Welburn, Beadlam and Nawton which 
Roger de Mowbray had given and Robert de Daiville, the 
grantor’s lord, had confirmed. [c. 1160-76] 

MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 128, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 


Tower, York. Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, 
f. 88 (old f. 84);1 pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 130. 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Robertus de Surdeual 
salutem. Sciatis me concessisse et presenti carta confirmasse Deo et 
ecclesie sancte Marie Rieuall[is] et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus, 
pro animabus patris mei et matris mee et pro salute anime mee et 
fratrum meorum et omnium parentum et heredum meorum, in puram 
et perpetuam elemosinam omnes? divisas inter Wellebr[unam] et 
Bolum et Nagaltun quas Rogerus de Molbrai illis dedit et carta sua 
confirmavit et quas dominus meus Robertus de Daiuilla illis concessit ; 
tenendas liberas et quietas de me et de heredibus meis in perpetuum 
et solutas ab omni terreno servicio et exactione seculari. Hance ele- 
-mosinam meam ego et heredes mei warantizabimus eis contra omnes 
in perpetuum. His testibus, Ernaldo filio Bence, Petro de Surdeual 
fratre meo, Stephano Maniueuilain® et Johanne et Willelmo filiis ejus, 
Thoma et Petro filiis Ernaldi filii Bence, Ricardo le Rai, Ricardo 
filio Alani. 


A charter of Roger de Mowbray (no. 155) shows Robert de Daiville’s 
interest in these bounds ; but this charter is included here in view of no. 141, 


1 Marginal number Ixxxvij. 
2 Omitted in Dodsw., where divisas is written over two words deleted. 
3 Maniuuilain in R.C. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 225 


which shows Robert de Surdeval’s interest in Nawton. The superior interest 
of Robert de Daiville descended to John de Eyvylle, who held 3 carucates 
there in 1284-85.1 

Ernald son of Bence occurs in the periods 1161-67 and 1170-80,? and with 
Thomas and William his sons in 1175-85.3. Comparing this charter with 
nos. 155, 157-8, which deal with the bounds of the abbey’s holding in 
Welburn, and no. 159, which shows the settlement of one of the bounds in 
1176, it seems safe to suggest the period of the present charter as c. 1160-76. 


141. Confirmation by William son of William, Peter Rabaz, Robert 
de Newton and Juliana de Sutton, heirs of Robert de Surdeval, 
to Rievaulx abbey of the gifts made by Robert de Surdeval 
their uncle in Nawton, including common pasture for 300 
sheep, and free passage to the sheepfold of Skiplam; and of 
all the bounds between Welburn, Beadlam and Nawton given 
and confirmed by Roger de Mowbray and Robert de Daiville. 

[late 12th or early 13th cent.] 
MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 95V, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. Pd. (incompletely) in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 
299, from Dodsworth. 

Omnibus sancte matris filiis Willelmus filius Willelmi, Petrus 
Raboz, Robertus de Neuton et Juliana de Sutton, heredes Roberti 
de Surdeualle, salutem. Sciatis nos concessisse et hac presenti carta 
nostra confirmasse Deo et ecclesie sancte Marie Rieuall[is] et monachis 
ibidem Deo servientibus, in liberam et perpetuam elemosinam, dona- 
ciones quas Robertus de Surdeuale avunculus noster dedit eis et cartis 
suis confirmavit in villa de Nagelton et territorio ejus, scilicet Robertum 
filium Drogonis de Nagelton cum duabus bovatis terre quas tenuit de 
eodem Roberto in eadem villa et quicquid juris habuimus in eodem 
Roberto et in eisdem duabus bovatis terre cum pertinenciis et liber- 
tatibus suis infra villam et extra et ubique sine omni retenemento 
libera et quieta ab omni terreno servitio et exactione seculari preter 
forense servitium regis quod ipsi dabunt nobis in eodem tenemento de 
Nagelton, scilicet quantum pertinet ad duas bovatas terre ubi novem 
carucate terre faciunt feodum militis; et preterea communem pasturam 
trium carrucatarum terre nostre in Nagelton a semita illa que exit de 
Nageltundala ubi Alueskarlegate venit in Nageltundale sicut eadem 
semita transit Blaikeswaith usque in Wiredale quantum terra nostra 
durat in latum et longum versus aquilonem ad easdem trescentas oves 
ad quas predictus Robertus avunculus noster concessit eis com- 
munem pasturam in Bothlun* quarum agni ibunt ibidem annuatim 
cum matribus suis usque ad separacionem; et liberum egressum et 
regressum ad bercariam suam de Schipnum ad eandem pasturam 
quantum terra nostra durat. Et nos et heredes nostri non onerabimus 
predictam pasturam alienis pecoribus nisi propriis pecoribus nostris 
et hominum ejusdem ville; et preterea omnes divisas inter Welburnam 

1 Feudal Aids, vi, pp. 65, 67. 

2 E.Y.C., i, nos. 412, 562. 3 Lbtd,,.4i,no. 743. 

* In MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 152 is a charter of Alan de Surdeuale con- 


firming to Rievaulx the gift made by Robert de Surdeuale his brother of 
common pasture for 300 sheep in the territory of Beadlam (Bothlum). 


226 SLUTEVILLE FEE 


et Bothlun et Nagelton quas Rogerus de Molbrai illis dedit et carta 
sua confirmavit, quas et Robertus de Daiuilla illis concessit. Hec 
omnia concessimus predictis monachis et presenti carta nostra con- 
firmavimus, tenenda libera et quieta ab omni terreno servitio et exac- 
tione seculari in perpetuum, sicut in cartis prefati Roberti avunculi 
nostri continetur. Et nos et heredes nostri warantizabimus illis hec 
omnia contra omnes homines in perpetuum. Huis testibus, Odone 
capellano, Willelmo de Tamtona, Drocone de Harum, Radulfo de 
Surdeuale, Roberto de Buleford, Alano de Surdeuale, Alano de la 
Mora, Henrico Chambord, Rogero filio Bernardi de Bothlun, Willelmo 
de Neutona. 


As Robert de Newton, one of the nephews, was under age (no. 142), a 
date not later than 1200 is likely. 


142. Affidation by William son of William and Peter Rabaz that 
William Willoughby, husband of Juliana [de Sutton], their 
coheir in the fee of Robert de Surdeval, their uncle, on his 
first coming to Ryedale would seal the charter which in his 
name and theirs they had given to Rievaulx abbey concerning 
lands and liberties in Nawton, and that Robert de Newton 
would seal the same charter when he came of age. 

[late 12th or early 13th cent.] 
MS. Dodsworth, vii, f. 118, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 

Notum omnibus tam presentibus quam futuris quod Willelmus 
filius Willelmi et Petrus Rabaz firmiter et legaliter in manu cepimus 
quod Willelmus Wilghebi sponsus Juliane coheredis nostre in feodo 
Roberti de Surdeuale avunculi nostri sigillum suum apponit! ad 
cartam quam sub ejus et nostris nominibus dedimus monachis 
Rievall[ensibus] de terris et libertatibus in Nagelton prima vice qua 
venerit in Ridale, et quod Robertus de Neuton quum venerit ad legalem 
etatem suum sigillum apponet ad eandem cartam libere et sine con- 
tradictione et sine exactione alicujus donacionis. Hiis testibus, Alano 
de Surdeuale, Henrico Chambord’, Rogero filio Bernardi de Bothlun, 
Willelmo de Neutona. 


(ix) ROOK BARUGH 


143. Gift by Hugh del Tuit to Rievaulx abbey of meadow-land in 
the meadow of Rook Barugh [par. Normanby, wap. Ryedale] 

and 2 acres of meadow in the fee of [Great] Edston. [1145-52] 

Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 64V (old f. 60Y). 2 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 102. 

Hugo del Tuhit omnibus filiis sancte matris ecclesie salutem. 
Sciatis me dedisse et concessisse atque istius presentis carte attestatione 
confirmasse Deo et sancte Marie Rieuall[is] et fratribus ibidem Deo 
servientibus concessu uxoris mee pro salute anime mee et uxoris mee 
et pro anima patris mei et matris mee et antecessorum nostrorum in 


1 Sic, query for apponet. 
2 Marginal number lix. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY wat 


perpetuam elemosinam scilicet in prato de Rochesberc xviij. perticatas 
in latitudine et lx. in longitudine, et duas acras prati de feudo Edestun 
juxta divisas de Edestun et de Rochesberc. His testibus, Roberto 
presbitero de Edestun, Rogero Camin, Willelmo filio Petri de Hotun, 
Alberto de Beuerli, Waltero filio Alani, Aggo, Radulfo fabro, Siwardo 
de Rochesberc. 


In the dated register of gifts recorded in the Chartulary! the gifts by 
Gervase and Benedict his son? and Hugh del Tuit of the meadow of Rokes- 
bergh is entered between 1145 and 1152. These gifts are included in pope 
Alexander III’s confirmation of 1160.3 

The grantor’s gift in Rook Barugh was confirmed by Robert de Stute- 
ville III (no. 11). In 1166 he held a knight’s fee of Hugh Bigod, earl of 
Norfolk, part of which lay in Great Edston ; some details of his family have 
been given by Farrer in a note to the record of his gift to Keldholme priory 
of the mill of Edston.+ The theory, however, that the family took its name 
from Thwaite by Aylsham, Norfolk, cannot be accepted ; and the late Mr. 
L. C. Loyd has given evidence that the name was probably, if not certainly, 
derived from Le Thuit, dept. Eure, arr. and cant. Les Andelys.5 The form 
‘del Tuhit’ will be noticed in the present charter. 


144. Quitclaim by Robert de Bowforth to Keldholme priory of all 
right in the territory of Rook Barugh, which territory the priory 
had of the gift of Robert de Stuteville [IIT]. [c. 1220-40] 


MS. Dodsworth vii, f. 157, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. 

Omnibus hec scriptum visuris vel audituris Robertus de Buleford 
salutem. Noveritis me relaxavisse et quietum clamavisse pro me et 
heredibus meis imperpetuum Deo et sancte Marie et domui de Keld- 
holm et sanctimonialibus ibidem Deo et beate Marie servientibus pro 
salute anime mee et antecessorum et successorum meorum totum jus 
et clamium quod habui vel habere potui in territorio de Rokeberge 
cum pertinentiis vel in aliqua parte ipsius territorii, quod territorium 
dicte moniales habent ex dono Roberti de Stutteuill. Quare volo et 
concedo quod predicte moniales habeant et teneant predictam terram 
de Rokeberge cum pertinentiis in puram et perpetuam elemosinam 
liberam solutam et quietam de me et heredibus meis in perpetuum, ita 
scilicet sicut carta predicti Roberti de Stuteuill quam sepedicte moniales 
inde habent proportat et testatur. Ut hec mea relaxacio et quieta 
clamacio robur et stabilitatem habeant presenti scripto sigillum meum 
apposui. Hiis testibus, Willelmo de Hurum,* Johanne de Stainegriue 
decano, Roberto Chambord, Roberto de Stutteuill, Nicholao de 
Stutteuill fratre ejus, Nicholao de Gillingmor forestario, Martino de 
Forsette, Roberto filio Roberti le Gardiner, Alano de Wassand, 
Nicholao clerico de Buttercram. 

1 Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 368. 

2 See no. 145 below. 

3 Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 250. 

4 BE. Y..G.,4, no, 598: 

5 L. C. Loyd, Anglo-Norman Families, Harleian Soc., p. 107. 

6 Probably recte Harum. 


228 STUTEVILLE FEE 

The grantor took his name from Bowforth in Kirkby Moorside. <A 
comparison of the witnesses with those in nos. 56, 57, 59 suggest the period 
of his quitclaim. For Robert de Stuteville’s gift see no, 12. 


(x) SKIPLAM AND WOMBLETON 


145. Gift by Benedict son of Gervase to Rievaulx abbey of land [in 
Wombleton] where the buildings of the abbey stood, land at 
‘Spelcros’ and Skiplam, meadow at Rook Barugh and Muscoates, 
and common pasture of Wombleton; also at the request of 
Helewise his wife his culture in ‘Wiresdale’. [1145-52] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f..47 (old f. 43).} 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 69. 


Notum sit omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis quod ego Bene- 
dictus filius Geruasii do et concedo in perpetuam elemosinam terram 
ubi domus et edificia monachorum Rieuall[ensium] construuntur 
usque ad divisas inter me et Paulinum ipsis monachis Rieuall[ensibus] 
pro salute anime mee et uxoris mee et patris et matris mee et parentum 
meorum, et ad Spelcros xij*!™ percatas in latum et ad Schipnum iiij. 
perticatas” in latum et in longum sicut ceterorum agri extenduntur et 
ad Rochesberg pratum in duobus locis secundum eorum divisas et ad 
Musecothes? pratum similiter per divisas eorum et communem pasturam 
de Wimbletuna ita ut intus et extra per omnia habeant. His testibus, 
Wl[altero] Espec, Hugone Boneface, Alano de Busseto, Hugone filio 
Willelmi, Radulfo filio sororis mee et Willelmo nepote meo. Et peti- 
tione Helewise uxoris mee [dedi eis] in Wiresdale culturam meam. 
Testibus, Roberto filio Lamberti, Rainaldo, Willelmo de Killebrunna, 
Roberto filio Vcce de Romundebia, Warino sine munde. 


As recorded in the note to no. 143 the grantor and his father made the 
gift of the meadow of Rook Barugh between 1145 and 1152. It is likely 
that the grantor’s father had died before the additional gifts. were made by 
the present charter, which, however, in view of the occurrence of Walter 
Espec as the first witness cannot be later than 1152. The grantor may be 
Benedict de Wimbeltun who witnessed no. 149. 

At Skiplam, in the northern portion of Welburn, Gundreda mother of 
Roger de Mowbray made a gift of cultivated land to the abbey (no. 150). 
The abbey’s grange there is mentioned in another charter (no. 148). Womble- 
ton lies to the s.w. of Welburn village, and Muscoates further south ; a grange 
is marked on the 1 in. map close to both places. Rook Barugh lies some 
distance to the east, beyond the river Dove in the parish of Normanby. 
Wiresdale occurs as Wiredale in a charter relating to Nawton (no. 141), which 
is to the n.w. of Wombleton. 


146. Confirmation by Roger de Mowbray to Rievaulx abbey of the 
gift made by Benedict son of Gervase in Wombleton. 
[1145-c. 1152] 
! Marginal number xxvj. * #1 marked for deletion. 


3 Omsecothes, MS; but the amendment is certain, as shown by the 
comprehensive confirmation charter of 1332 (Rievauly Chartulary, p. 285). 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 229 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 43 (old f. 39).? 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 63. 


Rogerus de Molbrai omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis salutem. 
Notum sit vobis me dedisse et concessisse et presentis carte attestatione 
confirmasse elemosinam Deo et ecclesie sancte Marie Rieuall[is] et 
fratribus ejusdem loci, pro salute anime mee et parentum meorum, 
quam Benedictus filius Geruasii illis dedit in Wimbeltun et carta sua 
confirmavit, scilicet illam portionem terre in qua domus illorum et 
edificia constructa sunt sicut fossato illorum clauditur et in agro de 
Wimbelt[un] x. acras et dimidiam sicut divise sunt per cartam ipsius 
et communem pasturam ipsius ville secundum legalem considerationem 
ut homines illius ville non graventur et prata sicut divisa sunt in carta 
Benedicti. Hec omnia illis concedo et confirmo libera et quieta ab 
omni terreno servitio in perpetuum. His testibus, Waltero de la 
Riuere, Rogero de Flammeuile, Radulfo Beler, Rogero de Cundi. 


It is likely that this confirmation was issued shortly after no. 145. 
The latest possible date is 1157 in view of the third witness (no. 125 note); 
and the other three witnesses occur in a charter of Roger de Mowbray, 
1154-57 (no. 125). 


147. Confirmation by Alan de Ryedale and Maud his wife, daughter 
of Gervase, to Rievaulx abbey of the land given by Benedict son 
of Gervase in Wombleton and of all things granted by Benedict 
or Gervase his father. [c. 1160-75] 


Rievautx Chattulary, Cotton MS: Julius D. 1, f. 91 (old f£ 86%). 2 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 134. 


Alanus de Ridale omnibus filiis sancte ecclesie salutem. Notum 
sit omnibus tam presentibus quam futuris me et uxorem meam Matildem 
filiam Geruasii concessisse et confirmasse Deo et ecclesie sancte Marie 
Rieuallfis] et fratribus ibidem Deo servientibus terram quam Bene- 
dictus filius Geruasii illis dedit in Wimbeltun’ cum pratis et pascuis 
et ceteris omnibus que idem Benedictus vel etiam pater ejus Geruasius 
illis concessit liberam et quietam ab omni servicio et consuetudinibus 
et assisis et auxiliis sicut elemosina debet esse in perpetuum. His 
testibus, Theoderico presbitero et decano, Roberto de Ros, Briennione 
clerico, Drogone de Harum. 


Charters relating to the prolonged disputes between Alan de Ryedale, 
whose wife is here seen to be a sister and presumably heir of Benedict son 
of Gervase, and Rievaulx abbey are given in the section dealing with 
Welburn (nos. 157-60). Engelram occurs as rural dean of Ryedale in the 

' periods 1154-60 and c. 1160-74 (nos. 90, 131); and, if it can be supposed 
that Theoderic was his successor, the period of the present charter can be 
suggested. If the second witness was Robert de Ros I of Helmsley the 
latest date is 1163 when he was dead. 


1 Marginal number xx. 
2 Marginal number xcj. 
3 Complete Peerage, new ed., xi, 91. 


230 STUTEVILLE FEE 


148. Gift by Ralph de Wath to Rievaulx abbey of 5 acres of land 
next the abbey grange of Skiplam in exchange for 10 acres of 
his cote-garth in Wombleton; and undertaking that he and his 
heirs would go on the abbey’s business at its expense wherever 
required in Yorkshire. [late Henry IT] 

Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 87 (old f. 83). 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no, 129. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Radulfus de Vado salutem. 
Sciatis me dedisse et hac presenti carta confirmasse Deo et ecclesie 
sancte Marie Rieuall[is] et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus v. acras 
de propinquiori terra quam habui juxta grangiam illorum de Scipnum, 
scilicet in escambium x. acrarum cotegardi sui de Wimbelt[un] quas 
michi dederunt, quas v. acras ego et heredes mei adquietabimus eis 
de omnibus serviciis contra omnes homines et warantizabimus contra 
omnes homines, ita quod eas tenebunt liberas et quietas ab omni terreno 
servicio et exactione seculari imperpetuum. Ego autem et heredes mei 
ibimus in negotiis illorum agendis sicut fratres eorum ubicunque opus 
fuerit in Eboracensi sciria ad illorum expensas sine occasione tamen. 
His testibus, Nicholao de Traili, Adam Fossard, Petro de Surdeual et 
Petro filio ejus, Willelmo de Surdeual et Radulfo filio ejus, Roberto 
filio Ernisii, Roberto persona de Sancto Oswaldo, Willelmo de Herum, 
Willelmo Crispinum, Radulfo magno, Tecio, Petro de Newt[un], 
Roberto de Vado, Ricardo de Sproxtun, Waltero Huuerin, Symone 
filio Robferti] Breth. 


The grantor and his brother Robert were living in the period 1171-8] 
(no. 132). The second witness succeeded his father Geoffrey Fossard between 
1166 and 1183 (see Chapter IV, $6). But it does not seem possible to suggest 
any approximate limits of date. A place called Cote Garths is marked on 
the 1 in. map half a mile s.w. of Wombleton. 


(xi) WELBURN 


149. Gift by Gundreda, for the soul of her husband Nigel d’Aubigny 
and the health of her own soul and that of Roger her son, to 
Rievaulx abbey of her demesne within specified bounds in 
Welburn, with the meadow of ‘Gildehusedale’ and common 
pasture. [c. 1138-43] 

Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 38V (old f. 34V). ? 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 56. 

Notum sit omnibus filiis sancte ecclesie quod ego Gundreda do 
et concedo Deo et sancte Marie Rieuall[is] et fratribus ibidem Deo 
servientibus, pro anima domini mei Nigelli de Albaneia et pro salute 
anime mee et Rogeri filii mei et pro animabus patris et matris mee et 
antecessorum meorum, dominiam’ meam scilicet a ductu de Colemere 
usque ad ductum de Gildehusedale liberam et quietam ab omni terreno 
servicio, pratum etiam de Gildehusedale et communem pasturam de 
Wellebrun in bosco et plano. His testibus, Nicholao capellano, Johanne 
clerico de Houincham, Waltero de la Riuere, Rogero de Flammeuile, 


1 Marginal number Ixxxvj. 
2 Marginal number xiij. + Ste. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 251 


Benedicto de Wimbeltun, Henrico de Maltun, Vnspac de Houincham, 
Gaufrido de Insula, Willelmo de Wituile. 


This gift formed the nucleus of the abbey’s possessions in Welburn, which 
was extended by the next charter and then on a more comprehensive scale 
by Roger de Mowbray’s charter (no. 151). The mention of Roger’s wife and 
sons in the next charter, and their omission here, suggests that the present 
charter was issued before his marriage, which took place between 1141 and 
1143.1 It was probably not issued very long before the next; and the 
witnesses sugg@st a date not earlier than c. 1138.7 


150. Gift by Gundreda wife of Nigel d’Aubigny, with the consent of 
Roger de Mowbray her son, to Rievaulx abbey of her cultivated 
land in her demesne in Skiplam and land which she and her son 
had in their fee within specified bounds between Welburn, 
Wombleton and Fadmoor and so towards Cleveland, reserving 
to her and her men of Welburn common of pasture and facilities ; 
and confirmation of any gifts or sales made by her men of 
Welburn. [1144-54] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. 1, f. 38 (old f. 34).3 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 55. 


Gundreda uxor Nigelli de Albaneio universis filiis sancte ecclesie 
salutem. Sciatis me dedisse et concessisse et per presentem cartam 
meam confirmasse concessu fili1 mei Rogeri de Moubrai Deo et sancte 
Marie Rieuall[is] et fratribus ibidem Deo servientibus, pro anima 
viri mei Nigelli de Albaneio et pro salute anime mee et filii mei Rogeri 
de Molbrai et uxoris sue et filiorum suorum et pro anima patris et 

-matris mee et omnium antecessorum meorum, quicquid in dominio 
meo habui de culta terra in Skipenum et ubi culta terra deficit versus 
aquilonem quicquid est in feudo meo et filii mei Rogeri de Moubrai 
in bosco et plano et pasturis et wastinis secundum divisas inter 
Wellebruna[m] et Wimbelt[onam] et sicut divise de Wellebruna 
tendunt ad Thurkillesti et ita versus Cliueland’ nominatim Locum et 
Locumeslehit et Wibbehahge et Langeran et Brandesdala et Middel- 
houed sicut divise sunt inter Wellebruna[m] et Faddemor et ita versus 
Cliueland’. Hec omnia concessi et dedi eis libera et quieta ab omni 
terreno. servitio et consuetudine et auxiliis et assisis in perpetuam 
elemosinam ad colendum et sartandum et utendum in omnibus sicut 
suis propriis, excepto quod ego et homines mei de Wellebruna habe- 
bimus communam pasture et ligna ad ignem et materiem ad edificia. 
Preterea in eadem libertate concedo eis et confirmo quicquid homines 
mei de Wellebruna eis dare voluerint vel vendere vel escambire de 
terris suis quas habent in Skipenum. His testibus, Nicholao capellano, 
‘Waltero presbitero, Engelram presbitero eyusdem ville,t Gerardo de 
Limesia, Henrico [de] Rumelli, Arnaldo de Vilers, Samson[e de] Corn- 

1 See the introductory notes to this Chapter, 

2 Unspac de Hovingham witnessed E.Y.C., ili, no. 1895 ; date assigned 

1150-c. 1170. Walter de Riparia and Roger de Flammeville both held tenan- 
cies of Roger de Mowbray in 1166 (Red Bk. FExch., p. 419). 


3 Marginal number xij. 
4 7j.e. Welburn ; see no. 124. 


232 STUTEVILLE FEE 


walia, Radulfo et Waltero fratribus Engelrami presbiteri, Willelmo 
camerario filio Aluredi, Ricardo filio Suani, Jacobo clerico, Ricardo 
pistore, Robba, Stir. 


The earliest date, in view of the mention of Roger de Mowbray’s sons, 
can be taken as 1144 ; and it is not likely that the charter was issued later 
than the next. 

Some notes on the bounds of Welburn are given with no. 151 ; it will 
be noticed that Bransdale and Middlehead are mentioned here. Skiplam 
(Skipenum) lies 24 miles n.n.w. of Welburn village, on the west side of 
Hodge Beck ; see nos. 145, 148 relating to it. 


151. Gift by Roger de Mowbray to Rievaulx abbey, for the souls of 
his father Nigel [d’Aubigny] and his mother Gundreda, with 
the consent of his heirs Nigel and Robert, of Welburn within 
specified bounds. [1154] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 38Y (old f. 34V).? 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 57. 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Rogerus de Motbrai salutem.? 
Sciatis me dedisse et presenti carta confirmasse Deo et ecclesie sancte 
Marie Rieuall[is] et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus, pro anima 
patris mei Nigelli et matris mee Gundrede concessu heredum meorum 
Nigelli et Roberti, in perpetuam elemosinam Wellebrunam cum 
omnibus pertinentiis suis in bosco et plano et marescho et pratis et 
aquis et pasturis cum viis et semitis et divisis que subtus nominantur : 
ab occidente scilicet de Wellebrun’ sicut Fragate vadit subtus Lund 
usque in viam de Wimbelt[una] et inde sicut ipsa via vadit inter boscum 
de Wimbelt[una] et Lund usque ad Tunge et inde sicut divise inter 
Wimbelt{unam] et Wellebr[unam] tendunt usque ad Mapelbusch et 
Locum et Slectes et ita sicut divise tendunt usque Langaran et inde 
usque ad Apelgard ad divisas de Cliueland et Midelhouet;* ex meri- 
diana parte de Wellebr[una] est divisa sicut via vadit inter Wimbelt- 
[unam] et Wellebr[unam] usque Midelhirst et ab australi parte de 
Midelhirst* totum mareschum usque ad certam terram de Musecote 
usque Stodfalde et in recta linea versus Holm usque in Holebec et 
communem pasturam more que jacet ante Buleford que est communis 
his tribus villis Wellebr[une], Houet[une], Buleford secundum 
tenuras villarum usque ad Coldic; ex® parte orientali de Coldic sicut 

1 Marginal number xiiij. 

2 Roger de Mowbray issued another charter on the same occasion, all 
the witnesses being the same, which for the most part agrees word for word 
with this one (f. 41, old f. 37; marginal no. xvij; Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 60). 
There is also a royal confirmation and inspeximus of 1327 entered on the 
Patent Roll (Rievaulx Chartulary, p. 413). The following footnotes indicate 
differences of importance from these two texts, no. 60 being A, and the Pat. 
Koll text B. 

3 In A there is here inserted : ‘ex orientali parte de Wellebr[una] est 
divisa sicut Redouer descendit de Blawad unde oritur ab orientali parte de 
Midelhouet usque ad Hallewat et a Blawat item usque divisas de Cliueland’. 

* A continues : ‘sicut vallis dividit inter certam terram et mareschum 
usque Stodefalde’. 

> This clause to ‘Jatstainewad’ is omitted in A. 


CHARTERS RELATING [TO.-THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 233 


via que vocatur Walkarlagata vadit juxta Buleford' usque in vadum 
qui vocatur Jatstainewad. Has divisas homines mei me presente 
perambulaverunt et juramento recognoverunt eas esse rectas divisas 
inter Wellebr[unam] et villas que circa eam sunt. Hec omnia do eis 
libera et quieta ab omnibus consuetudinibus et auxiliis et geldis et 
assisis et omni terreno servitio.2 Hanc donationem ego et Nigellus 
filius meus manu nostra afhdavimus tenendam in manu Roberti decani 
sub presentia domini Rogeri archiepiscopi et totius capituli Eborac[ensis] 
et ipsam ecclesiam Eboracensem horum omnium testem et fidejussorem 
inter nos et monachos constituimus, ita ut si aliquando ego vel heredes 
mei ab hac conventione deviaverimus ipsa ecclesia ad hec exequenda 
nos ecclesiastica revocet disciplina. His testibus, domino Rogerio 
Eborac[ensi] archiepiscopo,? Roberto decano, Johanne thesaurario, 
Radulfo archidiacono, Roberto archidiacono, Thoma de Raineuill’, 
Nicholao de Treili, Geroldo filio Serl[onis], Serlone fratre ejus, Symone 
de Sigillo, Johanne filio Lethold’, Thoma filio Paul[ini], Thoma 
Sottauag[ina], Arnulfo Sottauag[ina], Osberto Arundel, Gilberto filio 
Fulchonis, Theobaldo clerico domini episcopi Dunelm[ensis], Roberto 
capellano, Rogero abbate de Beiland’, Augustino priore de Noueb- 
_ [urgo], Willelmo de Wideuilla, Roberto de Daiuill’, Rogero de Flam- 
_meuill’, Hugone Malebestia, Waltero de la Riuere, Radulfo Beler, 
Petro de Tresc, Roberto de Busci, Rolando de Landf[eles], Philippo 
de Logi, Hamundo Beler, Willelmo de Steinegrif, Waltero de Karlet[on], 
Arnaldo de Vilers, Alano de Flameuill’. 


Nigel de Mowbray issued a confirmation charter to the same effect, 
which contains the clause relating to contingent claims ; his testibus, Rogero 
abbate de Bellaland’, Waltero priore ejusdem loci, Ricardo priore de 
Nouoburgo, Landrico cellarario, Roberto capellano, Roberto de Daiuilla, 
Rogero de Flamv{illa|, Hugone Male[bisse], Radulfo de Belueer, Roberto 
fratre suo, Roberto de Busci, Rogero Barr’, Waltero de la Riuere, Roberto 
Belchamp, Willelmo de Tikahill, Roberto camerario, Baldewino clerico.* It 
is clear from the list of witnesses that he issued this on the same occasion as 
his confirmations of Hoveton (notes to nos. 125-6 above), z.e. in the period 
1163-69. This was considerably later than the date of his father’s charter, 
and it will be seen that Richard had succeeded Augustine as prior of New- 
burgh in the meantime.°® 

The date of Roger de Mowbray’s charter, printed above, falls in the 
period 1154-58 in view of the concurrence of the witnesses archbishop Roger, 


1 Bhas: ‘juxta Bulfort recta linea usque in Jaistemwad’. 

2 In A there is here inserted : ‘Quod si de hac elemosina mea vel divisis 
predictis eis aliquis amodo calumpniam fecerit temporibus meis vel tem- 
poribus heredum meorum vel etiam per placitum dirationaverit ego et 
heredes mei inter eos et omnes homines erimus et adquietabimus et waran- 
tizabimus eis hec omnia in puram et perpetuam elemosinam et calumpniatori 
dabimus escambium de nostro proprio ita ut libera hec semper et integra 
elemosina nostra remaneat domui Rievall[ensi] in perpetuum’. 

3 He and several other witnesses are omitted in B, where Thomas de 
Colvilla and Oliver de Busci are added ; but a large number is common to 
both. 

4 Chartulary, f. 43V (old f. 39V) ; numbered xx1j ; Rievaulx Chartulary, 
no. 65. 

5 See Appendix C below. 


234 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Robert [de Gant] the dean of York and Robert { Butevilain] the archdeacon.! 
In the confirmation charter of king Henry LI, issued not later than 1157, 
Roger de Mowbray’s gift ‘quicquid est de feudo suo in Wellebruna’ was 
included ;2 and the date 1154, which is precisely given in the list of bene- 
factions, can be accepted. As Gundreda, the grantor’s mother, appears to 
have been alive in 11554 she was therefore living when the charter was issued. 
The charter thus affords another example of the doubtful deduction to be 
made from a ‘pro anima’ clause, to which allusion has been made in the 
note to no. 118, where the ‘pro anima’ clause is the same. 

The bounds described in the charter are precisely defined, and the 
land extended considerably north of the road from Kirkby Moorside to 
Helmsley as far as Middlehead (see no. 150) and the boundary of Cleveland. 
Wombleton is a mile s.w. of Welburn village; Muscoates c, 24 miles s. ; 
Bowforth (Buleford) ? mile s.e. ; North Holme 2 miles s.s.e. ; and Cowldyke 
(Coldic) is marked on the | in. map. to the east of the junction of the rivers 
Redover (now Hodge Beck) and Dove, 2 miles s.e. of Welburn village and a 
mile e. of Welburn Grange. Of the other places mentioned, Lund is repre- 
sented, perhaps, by Lund Court, a mile n.w. of Welburn village, and Lund 
Head, a little further n.w. ; Sleightholme Dale (Slectes) is marked on the 
6 in. map along the middle portion of Hodge Beck, with Sleights common 
to the north ; and further north, above Bransdale, Bloworth Slack (Blawat) 
runs north to Bloworth Crossing, just to the west of Middlehead. The bounds 
can be compared with those defined in the charter of Robert de Stuteville 
LIL (20. 10), 


152. Grant by Roger de Mowbray to the abbot of Rievaulx of all his 
villeins of Welburn, giving them liberty to move and settle 
elsewhere. [1154-57] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 43 (old f. 39).5 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 64). 


Rogerus de Molbrai omnibus constabulariis dapiferis ministris 
et omnibus hominibus suis salutem. Sciatis quod omnes rusticos meos 
de Wellebruna concedo abbati de Rieualle quietos et ipsis do omnem 
libertatem eundi et remanendi quocunque voluerint et ubi locum 
invenerint absque omni calumpnia in posterum de me et heredibus 
meis et de omnibus meis. Teste, Willelmo de Wiuilla, Rogero de 
Flammeuilla, Radulfo Beler, Hugone Mala bissa, Waltero Buherie, 
Roberto capellano, Roberto de Daiewilla, Radulfo de Bethlun. 


Ralph Beler, the third witness, who was the original donor of Hoveton, 
had been succeeded by 1157 (no. 125 note). The precedence of the first 
witness suggests that he was the grantor’s steward when the charter was 
issued, especially as it is known from the next charter that he held that 
office about this time. 


1 Yorks. Arch, Journal, xxxiv, 370-1. 

2 Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 212 (p. 152); and cf. the note to no. 125 
above. 

3 Ibid., p. 260. 

4 Mon. Ang., v, 353. 

5 Marginal number xxj. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 239 


153. Notification by Robert the dean and the chapter of St. Peter’s, 
York, of the gift made in their presence by Roger de Mowbray 
to Rievaulx abbey of Welburn including the culture on the 
other side of the river towards Hoveton which his father and 
afterwards his mother held in demesne. [1154-57] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 158 (old f. 141/2).} 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 229. 


Robertus decanus et capitulum sancti Petri Eborac[i] omnibus 
sancte matris ecclesie filiis tam presentibus quam futuris salutem. 
Noverit pariter presens etas et universa futurorum posteritas quod 
Rogerus de Molbrai in capitulo beati Petri nobis presentibus et ad 
attestandum assistentibus concessit et dedit Deo et sancte Marie 
Rieuall[is] et fratribus ibidem Deo in perpetuum servientibus et carte 
sue attestatione confirmavit in perpetuam elemosinam Welleburnam 
cum omnibus pertinentiis suis sicut in carta ipsius continetur liberam 
et quietam ab omnibus consuetudinibus et auxiliis et geldis et assisis 
et exactionibus et omni terreno servitio et nominatim concessit eis 
illam culturam cum pertinentiis suis que jacet ex alia parte aque versus 
Houetunam quam primo pater ejus et postea mater ejus habuit in 
dominio suo ita liberam et quietam in perpetuam elemosinam sicut 
et Welleburnam. Adjecit preterea prefatus Rogerus coram nobis et 
firmiter pactus est quod hec omnia adquietabit et warantizabit domui 
Rieuall[ensi] in perpetuam et liberam elemosinam contra omnes 
calumpniatores ipse et heredes sui ita ut si forte aliquando calump- 
niatores super his emerserint qui contra Rogerum vel heredes suos 
hanc elemosinam per placitum diratiocinati fuerint dabit Rogerus vel 
heredes sui calumpniantibus exscambium et tota prefata donatio in 
perpetuam et quietam elemosinam domui Rieuall[ensi] remanebit. Ad 
hanc autem donationem inconcusse in perpetuum tenendam posuit ipse 
Rogerus ecclesiam nostram testem et fidejussorem et ipse et Nigellus 
heres ejus in manu decani id se observaturos fide firmaverunt, petentes 
ut si in posterum aliquando ab hujus donationis tenore in aliquo 
deviarent vel ipsi vel heredes eorum ecclesia nostra ut prefata obser- 
varent eos canonica justicia coherceret. Hujus donationis testes sunt, 
Robertus decanus, Johannes thesaurarius, Robertus archidiaconus, 
Radulfus archidiaconus, Sym[on] de Sigillo, Nicholaus de Trelli, 
Thomas de Reineuill’, Geroldus, Serlo, Nicholaus filius Durandi, 
Arnulfus Sottawag[ina], Achardus filius Alani, Giullebertus filius 
Fulconis, Thomas filius Paul[ini], Stephanus de Arraz canonici, Thomas 
Sottawag[ina], Paul[inus], Osbertus Arundel, Alexander, Normannus, 
Ketel presbiteri, Willelmus de Wituill’ dapifer Rogeri, Rogerus de 

Cond[i], Radulfus Beler, Alanus de Flammeuill’. 


Archbishop Roger issued a notification to the same effect that Roger 
de Mowbray had made these gifts in his presence, adding his own confirma- 
tion at Roger’s petition ; no witnesses.” 


! Marginal number clxxxiilj. 
2 Chartulary, f. 156 (old f. 149); marginal number clxxviij ; Rievaulx 
Chartulary, no. 223. 


2.36 STUTEVILLE. FEE 


It is possible that, as in the charters both of the dean and chapter and 
of the archbishop there is the clause specifically mentioning the culture 
on the other side of the river, which does not occur in Roger de Mowbray’s 
charter, they were issued subsequently ; but for reasons given in the note 
to no. 151 the limits of date are 1154 and 1158 ; and the latter limit can be 
put back to 1157 as Ralph Beler was a witness. 


154. Gift by Roger de Mowbray to Rievaulx abbey of Welburn and 
Hoveton, except the church of Welburn with 6 bovates of land 
which belonged to it; and undertaking not to assist anyone in 
the exaction of the tithes of those places. [1154-66] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 107Y (old f. 100V). 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 154. 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Rogerus de Molbrai salutem. 
Sciatis me dedisse et hac presenti carta confirmasse Deo et ecclesie 
sancte Marie Rieuall[is] et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus in 
liberam et perpetuam elemosinam Welleburnam et Houetunam cum 
omnibus pertinentiis suis excepta ecclesia de Wellebr[una] cum yj. 
bovatis terre que pertinent ad eam. Quod si forte aliqui sub nomine 
ecclesie predicte aliquid ceperint in bosco vel in plano vel pastura 
aliter quam ceperunt antecessores eorum tempore Nigelli patris mei 
ego et heredes mei nullo modo id patiemur sed monachis jus suum 
contra omnes warantizabimus. De decimis suis, hoc est de Wellebr[una] 
et de Houet[una], si quis eos vexaverit et decimas ab eis exegerit nec 
ego nec heredes mei inde intromittemus nec aliquis per nos vel quem 
inde retrahere poterimus nec aliquem contra eos inde loquentem 
adjuvabimus vel manutenebimus. Hec omnia firmiter tenere et sine 
malo ingenio perpetuo servare manu mea afhidavi. His testibus, Roberto 
capellano, Hugone Malebisse, Roberto de Bellocampo, Radulfo Chinun, 
Petro clerico. 

As the exception of the church of Welburn with its 6 bovates was 
included in the king’s confirmation charter of 1163-66 (no. 156), the latest 
limit of date for the present charter is assured. For Roger de Mowbray’s 
gift to Newburgh priory of the church and 6 bovates see no. 163. 


155. Acquittance by Roger de Mowbray to Rievaulx abbey of their 
bounds of Welburn against Robert de Daiville, who issued a 
quitclaim in his presence by reason of the exchange which he 
(Roger) had given him. [c. 1160-76] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 108 (old f. 101). 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 155. 


Rogerus de Molbrai omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis et 
omnibus hominibus suis salutem. Sciatis quod ego adquietavi monachis 
de Rieuall[e] divisas suas de Welleburna sicut in carta matris mee et mea 
continentur erga Robertum de Daiuilla, et ipse Robertus in presentia 
mea et hominum meorum quietas eas clamavit pro se et heredibus 


1 Marginal number cx1. 
2 Marginal bumber cxij. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 237 


suis per escambiam quam illi dedi. His testibus, magistro Suano, 
priore de Noburc, Roberto capellano, Roberto [de] Daiuilla, Waltero 
Buhuri, Nigello filio domini, Roberto fratre ejus, Radulfo de Bellun, 
Oliuero de Buthci, Roberto de Creuequer, Waltero de Carletun, 
Hugone Malebisse. 


The witness clause raises an important point. Mr. Baildon, on the 
authority of this charter, puts ‘Swein’ in his list of the early priors of New- 
burgh.t But Farrer, in his annotation to one of the charters in the present 
volume, was of the opinion that master Swain was certainly not prior of 
Newburgh, and that what appears to be one witness represented two different 
people.* He probably had in mind master Swain of St. Peter’s hospital, York, 
who frequently occurs in the middle of the twelfth century. 

The witnesses and the subject-matter of the present charter suggest a 
date of the same period as nos. 157-9. For the confirmation of the bounds - 
made by Robert de Daiville see no. 140. 


156. Confirmation by king Henry II to Rievaulx abbey of the gift 
made by Roger de Mowbray of Welburn, except the church 
and 6 bovates of land; and also of Hoveton, within the bounds 
granted by Roger de Mowbray. At Nottingham. [1163-66] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 137V (old f. 130V). 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 203. 


Henricus rex Anglforum] et dux Norm[annorum] et Aquit- 
[anorum] et comes And[egauorum] archiepiscopis episcopis abbatibus 
comitibus baronibus justic[iariis] vicecomitibus ministris et omnibus 
fidelibus suis Francis et Anglis totius Anglie salutem. Sciatis me 
concessisse et presenti carta mea confirmasse ecclesie sancte Marie 
Rieuall[is] et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus, pro salute anime mee 
et antecessorum meorum, donationem Rogeri de Molbrai, scilicet 
quicquid est de feudo suo in Wellebrune excepto® ecclesia ejusdem 
ville cum sex bovatis terre. Similiter concedo eis et confirmo Houeto- 
nam cum predicta Wellebr[una] cum omnibus rebus ad easdem terras 
pertinentibus in bosco et plano pratis et aquis moris et pasturis et 
molendinis cum viis et semitis et divisis sicut idem Rogerus de Molbrai 
illis concessit et cartis suis confirmavit. Et ideo volo et firmiter precipio 
quod predicti monachi habeant et teneant has predictas terras bene et 
in pace libere et quiete plenarie et integre cum omnibus libertatibus et 
liberis consuetudinibus et in omnibus rebus solutas et quietas de 
sciris et hundredis et wapent[agiis] et placitis et querelis et geldis et 
danegeldis et temanetele et auxiliis et exercitibus et omni terreno 
servitio et seculari exactione in puram et perpetuam elemosinam. His 
' testibus, Rogero archiepiscopo Eborac[ensi], Roberto Linc[olniensi], 
H[ugone] Dunelm[ensi], Ricardo Cest[rensi] episcopis, Roberto comite 
Legr[ecestrie], Gaufrido comite, Ricardo de Luci. Apud Notingaham. 


1 Monastic Notes, Y.R.S., i, 145. This is followed in V.C.H. Yorks., iii, 
229. See Appendix C below. 
2 Actually in the MS. the punctuation certainly suggests that they 
were different witnesses. 
2 Swe: 


238 STUTEVILLE FEE 


The charter is deleted in red ink in the Chartulary, and has no marginal 
number ; but there is no reason to doubt that it is a copy of a genuine original. 
Richard became bishop of Chester in 1161, and the king did not return to 
England until Jan. 1163. Robert bishop of Lincoln died 27 Dec. 1166, and 
Geoffrey earl of Essex on 21 Oct. of that year, while the king returned to 
Normandy in the preceding March. Within these limits the king was absent 
in Normandy from Feb. to May 1165, and the most likely time for this 
visit to Nottingham seems to be towards the end of 1164.! But the presence 
of Richard de Lucy at St. Omer and the mission of archbishop Roger to 
the pope in November? suggest a date earlier than the meeting of the Council 
of Northampton in October ; and a date in the summer of 1163 after the 
Welsh expedition must not be overlooked.’ 

It has been noted that in the king’s confirmation charter to the abbey 
in 1154-57 there had been included whatever was of Roger de Mowbray’s 
fee in Welburn and all Hoveton (see the notes to nos. 125, 151); and it may 
be that in view of the disputes which had arisen a more precise measure of 
royal protection was deemed to be desirable. 


157. Notification by Roger de Mowbray of the settlement made 
before him in his court of the dispute between him and Alan de 
Ryedale, after a wager of battle, about the moor lying between 
Welburn and Bowforth and extending to Cowldyke, being 
common to the three vills of Welburn, Hoveton and Bowforth. 

[c. 1160-1169] 


Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 106 (old f. 99/2). * 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 153. 


Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Rogerus de Molbrai salutem. 
Noverit universitas vestra quod omnis controversia que vertebatur 
inter me et Alanum de Ridale super mora que jacet inter Wellebr[unam] 
et Buleford’ et tendit usque ad Coldic que scilicet communis est his 
tribus villis Wellebr[une], Houet[une] et Buleford’ in hac forma est 
terminata et in perpetuum sopita coram me et curia mea et multis 
vicinis meis et ministris regis, David scilicet Lardener et Odone de 
Neusum et Willelmo Dod et aliis pluribus ex parte vicecomitis : Idem 
Alanus veniens in curiam meam dicebat predictam moram et exitum 
monachorum Rievall[ensium] quem in illa frussaverat sui juris esse et 
ad dominium suum pertinere seque duelli certamine fidem dictis 
facturum. E contra ego asserens eam communem esse debere pre- 
nominatis tribus villis et monachos debere prefatum exitum liberum 
habere sicut pater meus et mater mea et ego liberius illum habueramus 
et ipsum Alanum eundem exitum contra justiciam frussasse quendam 
de liberis hominibus meis contra illum posui qui meam assertionem et 
jus elemosine mee defenderet. Igitur congredientibus illis tandem post 
multos assultus et ictus compellentibus amicis suis idem Alanus in ipso 
loco certaminis coram omnibus qui aderant quietum clamavit elemosine 

1 Cf. Eyton, Itinerary, p. 76. Another charter of the king issued at 

Nottingham in this period is pd. in Delisle et Berger, Rec. des Actes de 
Henri II, i, no. 247. i 


4 Eyton; p. 75. 3 Lota. pe 62. 
4 Marginal number cx. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 239 


mee et ecclesie ac monachis sancte Marie Rieuall[is] predictum exitum 
liberum imperpetuum et etiam quietum clamavit illis quicquid conti- 
netur infra divisas que nominantur in cartis quas ego dedi prefatis 
monachis de donatione mea de Wellebr[una] et Houet[una] tam in bosco 
quam in plano et in omnibus aliis rebus preter predictam moram, ita 
quod ipse Alanus et heredes ejus nichil omnino reclamabunt in per- 
petuum infra predictas divisas. De mora vero prescripta ego et pre- 
dictus Alanus in hoc ibidem spontanee consensimus quod xij. legales 
milites eligeremus de vicinis nostris et quicquid illi de eadem mora 
juramento prestito affirmarent ratum irrefragabiliter haberemus et ad 
hoc diem accepimus. Die vero statuta ego et curia mea et multi de 
vicinis nostris convenimus in sepedicta mora et ibidem per xij. legales 
milites juratos electos ab utraque parte cognitum atque probatum fuit 
quod tota eadem mora hactenus fuerit communis et esse debeat juris 
perpetuo predictis tribus villis Wellebr[une] scilicet, Houet[une] et Bule- 
f[ord]; et in hoc idem Alanus consensit et ideo quicquid operis antea 
fecerat in eadem mora ex sententia judicum ibidem remansit et sic per 
finem duelli tota controversia est terminata. Isti vero sunt milites qui 
pro sepedicta mora juramentum fecerunt: Willelmus de Steinegriua, 
Drogo de Harum, Petrus de Surdeual, Odo de Neuhus, Robertus de 
Benefeld, Willelmus de Bailol, Robertus de Steinegriua frater Willelmi 
de Steinegriua, Bartholomeus de Toreni, Willelmus filius Engeleri, Hugo 
[de] Holthorp, Stephanus de Killum, Turoldus de Nouauilla. Ideo 
autem volui hanc actionem conscribi et sigillo meo signari ut rei 
veritas tam presentibus quam futuris innotescat et prefatus Alanus vel 
heredes ejus non possint iterum in litem revocare ea que ordine 
judiciario et per finem duelli finem acceperunt in perpetuum sopita. 
His testibus de ministris regis a vicecomite missis, Dauid lardener 
regis, Gaufrido Fossard, Odone de Neus[um], Willelmo Dod, Iuone 
de Bolthebi; de vicinis nostris, Richero de Walesanth et Willelmo 
fratre ejus, Jukelo de Alvert[un], Petro de Surdeual, Willelmo de 
Magnebi, Roberto de Sproxt[un], Symone de Steinegrif et Henrico 
fratre ejus; de curia mea, Roberto capellano, Nigello et Roberto filiis 
meis, Roberto de Daiuilla, Hugone Malab[isse], Radulfo de Bauuair et 
Roberto fratre ejus, Thoma de Coleufilla], Roberto de Busci, Nicholao 
de Bellum, et multis aliis. 


The extreme limits of date are 1154, when Roger de Mowbray gave 
Welburn to the abbey, and 1176, the date of the final settlement of the 
dispute (no. 159). David the king’s lardiner held the lardiner serjeanty at 
York, and is mentioned with his father in 1135-37 ;1 it was not until Michael- 
mas 1181 that he had been succeeded by Thomas his son in the receipt of the 
yearly payment of 7H. 12s. 1d. which he had previously received from the 
sheriff of Yorkshire.2 Of the knights and others named some occur in 1154 
(no. 151) and some in 1176 (no. 159); and in particular Bartholomew de 
Thoreni made a grant to Rievaulx quite late in the century,’ while the 
occurrence of Simon de Stonegrave and Henry his brother, who were of a 


L E.Y.C..,.i, no. 243, and note. 
2 Pipe Roll 26 Hen. II, p. 61; 27 Hen. II, p. 34; and previous rolls 
continuously. 398. Y iCx, 1, Ho. 640. 


240 STUTEVILLE FEE 


younger generation than William de Stonegrave,' suggests a date not earlier 
than c. 1160. In view of the following charter (no. 158) the latest date can 
be taken as 1169. 

This charter, with a date assigned as c. 1170, is mentioned by Professor 
Galbraith in his paper ‘The Death of a Champion’ as giving an example 
of a civil duel waged in a private court.? 

The location of Cowldyke (Coldic), mentioned here, is given in the 
note to no. 151 ; it hes 1} miles s.e. from Bowforth. The evidence of no. 132 
shows that Alan de Ryedale was also known as Alan de Bowforth. As Alan 
de Buleford he occurs in the wapentake of Ryedale in 1166.° 


158. Notification by Roger de Mowbray of his perambulation of the 
moor before Bowforth and of the testimony that the moor was 
common pasture for Welburn, Hoveton and Bowforth, which 
common of pasture he had given to Rievaulx abbey, forbidding 
Alan [de Ryedale] to disturb the monks therein, with the assent 
of Nigel and Robert his sons. [c. 1160-1169] 

Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 42 (old f. 38).* Pd. 
in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 61. 

Rogerus de Molbrai omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis et 
omnibus hominibus suis salutem. Sciatis quod ego cum baronibus et 
probis hominibus meis et vicinis perambulavi moram que jacet ante 
Buleford’ ibique testimonio vicinorum et baronum meorum recognitum 
est et testificatum quod illa predicta mora communis pastura est inter 
Wellebronam, Houetonam et Bulford’. Ego vero ibi consilio omnium 
qui presentes fuerunt dedi monachis Rievall[ensibus] communam illius 
pasture in perpetuam elemosinam, ita quod ego warantizabo eis eam 
contra omnes homines cum ceteris elemosinis meis, ibique interdixi 
Alano ne presumeret eos inde vexare vel gravare, annuente Nigello 
filio meo et Roberto filio meo. His testibus, Eng[elram] presbitero de 
Wellebr[una], Willelmo clerico de Kirkebi, Rogero de Flamuill’, 
Hugone Malebestie, Waltero de Karletun’. 


The perambulation here mentioned is clearly that which is described 
in the preceding charter ; and the two charters are evidently of much the 
same date. The occurrence of Roger de Flammaville as a witness fixes the 
latest date as 1169 (note to no. 126). 


159. Notification by Gregory prior of Bridlington of the final settle- 
ment made in his presence at Nottingham on 24 March [1175-6] 
of the dispute between Rievaulx abbey and Alan de Ryedale 
about the moor [between Welburn and Bowforth]. 1175[-6] 

Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 90V (old f. 85/2¥).5 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 133. 
Gregorius prior Brellintfjone] omnibus sancte ecclesie filiis 
salutem. Causa que inter monachos Rieuall[enses] et Alanum de 
Lb VAG Vly De AZZ: 
2 Studies in Medieval History presented to F. M. Powicke, p. 290. 
3 Pipe Roll 12 Hen I, p. 49. 
4 


Marginal number xviij. 
5 Marginal number xc. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 241 


Ridale vertebatur cum michi et magistro Vacario delegata fuisset 
cognoscenda et terminanda committente predicto conjudice michi vices 
suas in presentia mea coram viris probabilibus amicabili compositione 
sic finita est apud Notingham ix. Kal. Aprilis, quod videlicet idem 
Alanus et uxor ejus Matildis in manu mea fide interposita renuntia- 
verunt omnibus querelis quas erga eosdem monachos usque ad illum 
diem moverant et se in posterum ratas habituros asseruerunt omnes 
donationes quas vir illustris Rogerus de Molbrai contulerat memoratis 
monachis juxta formam in cartis ipsius Rogeri comprehensam super 
quibus inter Alanum et monachos controversia diu fuerat agitata, tali 
mediante conditione quod idem Rogerus concessit Alano terram de 
Buleford de qua x. solidos annuatim reddere consueverat pro una 
libra piperis annuatim persolvenda hereditario jure tenendam ab 
omnibus serviciis aliis et consuetudinibus immunem. Monachi quoque 
vel Alanus in mora que jacet ante Buleford si modum legitimum et 
rationabilem in oneranda pastura excesserint juxta quod se habet 
quantitas tenure ex utraque parte ad arbitrium meum et vicinie ex- 
cessum suum emendabit. Turbas nichilominus predictus Alanus et 
homines ejus de Buleford capient in eadem mora inter Coldic et metas 
apparentes que facte sunt 1j. Nonas Novembris coram me et vicinia 
ad considerationem et arbitrium meum et ejusdem vicinie quas metas 
non transgredientur. Monachi vero ad arbitrium meum et vicinie 
emendaverunt canalem de Redofra unde predictus Alanus conquestus 
est tam dilatando quam profundius fodiendo quantum terra eorum 
durat; et sic predicta causa terminata est. Hec autem facta sunt anno 
Domini M°c°lxx°v° coram Rogero priore et monachis Rieuall[ensibus] 
et ipso Alano et tiliis eyus et hominibus suis. His testibus, Gileberto 
et Reginaldo canonicis de Brellint{ona], Symon de Staingriue, Roberto 
de Staingriue, Petro de Surdeual, Willelmo de Herum,! Bartholomeo 
de Thoreni, Willelmo de Baillfol], Walkelino Trusseuilain, Rogero 
Puldre, Roberto filio Victoris, Willelmo de Thornet[ona], Radulfo de 
Camera, Roberto Joie, Ernaldo de Brellintona. 


160. Quitclaim by Alan de Ryedale and Maud his wife to their lord 
Roger de Mowbray and Rievaulx abbey of any claim against the 
monks in the lands and other things [in Welburn] given to the 
abbey by Roger de Mowbray, who acquitted Alan and his heirs 
of 10s. yearly rent from Bowforth, to be held for a yearly pay- 
ment of a pound of pepper for all services. 

At Nottingham. [c. 24 March 1175-6] 
Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 90 (old f. 85/2). 2 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 132. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Alanus de Ridale salutem. 
Sciatis quod ego Alanus de Ridale et Matilda uxor mea fide interposita 
quietum clamavimus de nobis et heredibus nostris domino nostro 
Rogero de Molbrai et monachis Rieuall[ensibus] quicquid juris habuimus 
vel unde calumpniam movimus predictis monachis de terris et aliis 
rebus que continentur infra metas que in cartis eorundem monachorum 


1 Probably vecte Harum, as in no. 160. 
2 Marginal number Ixxxix. 


242 SPIUTEVILLE TRE 


de donatione predicti domini nostri Rogeri nominantur. Dominus 
autem meus Rogerus pro hac causa concessit michi et heredibus meis 
quietantiam de x. solidis quos ei de Buleford’ annuatim solvere 
consueveram et ipsam Bulefordiam tenendam de illo et heredibus ejus 
in feudum et hereditatem reddendo ei et heredibus suis singulis annis 
unam libram piperis pro omnibus serviciis. His testibus, Hugone 
abbate de Sancto Laur[entio], R[ogero] abbate de Rupe, Philippo 
priore de Lenton’, magistro Rainerio, magistro Roberto de Swina, 
Bernardo canonico de No[uo]burgo, Ran[ulfo] canonico de Bredlint[ona], 
magistro Petro Malebisse, magistro Serlone de Radeford’, Rogero de 
Molbrai, Nigello de Molbrai, Radulfo de Bailueir, Richero de Wassham, 
Roberto de Surdeual, Symone de Staing[riua], Willelmo de Harum, 
Bartholomeo de Torn[i], Willelmo de Baill[ol], R[oberto] de Benef[eld], 
Willelmo filio Eng[elram], R[adulfo]' de Vado, Walkelino Trusseuilain, 
Simone filio Ricardi, Galfrido de Jorz, Waltero de Sproxt[ona], Petro 
de Houet[ona], Thoma de Kilingwich, R[oberto] de Staing[riua]. Hec 
omnia gesta sunt coram Gregorio priore de Bredlint[ona] apud 
Notinham. 
The first witness, Hugh abbot of Revesby, co. Lincoln, occurs in 1172 ;? 
and Roger de Tickhill was abbot of Roche from 1171 to 1179.3 It is probable 
that the sixth witness was Bernard afterwards prior of Newburgh.* 


161. Quitclaim by Ralph de Wath and his brothers Ralph, Richard, 
Gerard and Gervase to Rievaulx abbey, in the court and in the 
presence of his lord Roger de Mowbray and Nigel his son, of 
all claim within the bounds of Welburn of the gift of Roger de 
Mowbray and Nigel his son. [c. 1160-1176] 

Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 105 (old f. 99).° 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 152. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Radulfus de Vado salutem. 
Noverit universitas vestra me et fratres meos Radulfum et Ricardum 
et Gerardum et Geruasium quietum clamasse Deo et ecclesie sancte 
Marie Rieuall[is] et monachis ibidem Deo servientibus in curia et in 
presentia domini mei Rogeri de Moubrai et Nigelli filii eyus quicquid 
calumpniabamur infra omnes divisas que continentur in cartis mona- 
chorum Rieuall[ensium] quas habent de donatione domini Rogeri de 
Moubrai et Nigelli filii sui de Welleburne in boscis et planis et marescis 
pro nobis et pro heredibus nostris in perpetuum et in omnibus aliis 
rebus. Et quoniam volui hec prescripta per omnia rata esse et firma ego 
et predicti fratres mei juravimus super 111j°T ewangelia quod nunquam 
nos nec alius aliquis per nos calumpniabitur quicquid infra predictas 
divisas que continentur in prememoratis cartis monachorum Rieuall- 
[ensium] de prefato Rogero de Molbrai et Nigello filio ejus de Welle- 
burn’ sibi datis ; et ut hec stabilia sint prece mea dominus meus Rogerus 
de Molbrai et Nigellus filtus ejus cartam hanc sigillis suis signaverunt 
cum sigillo meo. His testibus, Rogero de Molbrai et Nigello de Molbrai 

1 Or Rloberto] ; see no. 132. 

2 Mon. Ang., v, 453. 3 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxviii, 37. 


4 See Appendix C. 
5 Marginal number cix. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 243 


filio ejyus, Normanno presbitero de Halgt[ona], Roberto capellano 
Rogeri de Molbrai, Roberto de Busci, Willelmo de Daiuilla, Hereberto 
filio Ricardi, Willelmo filio Engel[ram], Roberto Beler, Roberto de 
Beauuair, Petro de Surdeual et Roberto de Surdeual filio eyus, Willelmo 
de Harum, Willelmo de Mundeuile, Jukelo de Aluertun, Petro de 
Neut[un], Abraham de Nagelt[un], Huberto de Harum, Gilleberto de 
Musecotes, Roberto Trauers, Umfrido de Aluertun. 


It is not unlikely that the grantor should be vecte Robert and not Ralph ; 
for Robert de Vado and Ralph his brother are among those mentioned by 
pope Alexander III as having done damage to the abbey (no. 132). The 
quitclaim may have been due to the papal intervention ; and as at least 
six of the witnesses occur in no. 157 the period c.1160-1176 seems reasonably 
certain. 


162. Quitclaim by Walter son of Asketil de Grimston to Rievaulx 
abbey of all right within the bounds of Welburn as specified in 
the charters of Roger de Mowbray and Nigel his son. 

[1162-c. 1176] 
Rievaulx Chartulary, Cotton MS. Julius D. i, f. 40V (old f. 36¥). 1 
Pd. in Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 59. 

Omnibus sancte matris ecclesie filiis Walterus filius Asketelli de 
Grimestona salutem. Notum sit vobis me dedisse et quietum clamasse 
Deo et monachis Rieuall[ensibus] de me et heredibus meis sine omni 
reclamatione in posterum fide interposita quicquid juris habui vel 
calumpniabar infra metas que continentur in cartis eorundem mona- 
chorum quas habent de Wellebrunna de donatione Rogeri de Molbrai 
et Nigelli filii ejus pro Dei amore et pro caritate quam ipsi monachi 
dederunt mihi. His testibus, Alano presbitero de Poclintona, Johanne 
clerico de Houingaham, Willelmo clerico de Lestingham, Alano 
Percehai, Drogone clerico de Helmesl[e], Simone de Staingriua, 
Willelmo Dod, Symone de Sproxtona, Ricardo de Sproxtona, Willelmo 
dapifero Euerardi de Ros, Rainaldo Enuaise, Gaufrido fratre Willelmi 
de Swintona, Johanne preposito de Helmef[s]l{e], Lamberto de Tor- 
penno, Roberto capellano de Helmesle. 


The occurrence of the steward of Everard de Ros gives 1162 as the 
earliest limit of date (note to no. 132); and although the other witnesses 
give no sure guide it is unhkely that this quitclaim was much later than 
the preceding one. The grantor was a tenant in 1166 both of Roger de 
Mowbray and Robert de Gant.’ 

Another quitclaim to Rievaulx abbey within the bounds of Welburn as 
defined in the Mowbray charters was made by Thomas son of Paulinus, 
canon of York, who held land in Nawton and Wombleton ; land in these 
places had been held by the archbishop of York at the Survey, and had 
apparently been attached to the prebend of Stillington ; the charter was 
printed in the section relating to the Archbishop’s Fee by Farrer, who 
assigned the date as 1160-65. 


! Marginal number xvj. 2 Red Bk. Exch., pp. 419, 433. 
3 E.Y.C., i, no. 164 ; being the original in the Bodleian Library, Yorks. 
ch. no. 30*. 


244 STUTEVILLE FRE 


163. Gift by Roger de Mowbray, for the health of his soul and that 
of Alice his wife, to Richard the prior and the priory of Newburgh 
of all his land in Wombleton; and confirmation of his earlier 
gift to Augustine the prior and the priory of Newburgh of the 
church of Welburn with 6 bovates of land and the chapel of 
Wombleton. [1154-57] 

MS. Dodsworth xciv, f. 78V. 


Universis sancte ecclesie Dei fidelibus Rogerus de Molbraio 
eternam in Domino salutem. Notum sit vobis me pro salute anime 
mee et uxoris mee Adelis dedisse concessisse et hac carta mea con- 
firmasse Deo et ecclesie sancte Marie de Nouo Burgo et Ricardo 
priori et canonicis ibidem Deo servientibus in liberam puram et per- 
petuam elemosinam totam terram meam in Wimbilton cum tota 
integritate sua tam in dominicis et redditibus toftis et croftis quam in 
villenagiis unacum villanis et eorum sequelis et cum quibuscunque 
aliis pertinentiis suis infra villam et extra ut in moris mariscis boscis 
et planis pascuis pasturis pratis viis et semitis et in omnibus aliis locis 
sine ullo retenemento libere integre et pure quiete et solute ab omni 
servicio seculari et exaccione imperpetuum. Ratam insuper et gratam 
habeo donacionem illam quam prius feceram Deo et ecclesie sancte 
Marie et Augustino priori et canonicis meis de Nouo Burgo de ecclesia 
de Welburna! cum sex bovatis terre et cum capella de Wimbiltona 
cui due bovate terre adjacent cum omnibus pertinentiis in eadem 
villa. Huis testibus, Roberto de Molbraio filio meo, Rogero de Flam- 
mauilla, Thoma de Coluilla, Willelmo de Whiteuilla, Olivero de Buscy, 
Gilberto de Gaunte, Rogero [de] Cundi, Radulpho Beler, Silvestro 
presbitero, Johanne Grosso, Bartholomeo Gigatore, et aliis. 


Other charters relating to Wombleton are given at nos. 145-8. The 
church of Welburn was the pre-Conquest church of Kirkdale, well-known 
for the Saxon inscription on the sundial over the south door.? The exception 
of the church and 6 bovates of land is specified in one of Roger de Mowbray’s 
charters to Rievaulx abbey (no. 154). 

As Ralph Beler witnessed the present charter the latest limit of date 
is 1157 (no. 125 note); and Richard had not become prior before 1154.3 
The last witness issued a charter to Byland abbey (no. 166). 


164. Agreement between Rievaulx abbey and Newburgh priory, to 
which the former house had granted its tithes of Welburn and 
Hoveton, to define which lands were tithable and which were 
free from tithe. [1189-c. 1210] 

MS. Dodsworth vi, f. 152V, from the original formerly in St. Mary’s 
Tower, York. Pd. in Rtevaulx Chartulary, no. 332, from 
Dodsworth. 

Notum sit omnibus tam presentibus quam futuris quod cum 
monachi Rieuallfenses] pro bono pacis concesserint domui et canonicis 
de Nouoburgo decimas suas de Welleburna et de Houetona de terris 

1 Dodsworth added in his own hand in the margin : Welburn ecclesia 
alias ecclesia de Kirkdale. The text is in an assistant’s hand. 


2 V.C.H., N.R., 1, pp. 521-3. It is named the church of ge has in 
charter no. 10 above. + See Appendix C. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 245 


antiquitus cultis et decimalibus, ne qua possit in posterum oriri dubi- 
tacio vel dissensio de eisdem terris que terre decimales sint que etiam 
a decimacione libere sint de utriusque partis assensu et beneplacito 
propriis nominibus subtus expressum est. Iste itaque terre de 
Wellebr[una] non debent decimari, scilicet Milneholm et due culture 
supra viam et subtus quas vocant Aldelandes. Relique vero terre a 
Kirkedala usque ad Sunnoluehou! decimales sunt. De Houetona 
vero Cothmanelandes et cultura que est inter pratum et divisam quam 
vocant Balke que ist inter Houekelde? et viam et exitus Houetone que 
est inter viam et pratum et Kaluecroft et Heuethcroft et a divisa quam 
vocant Suinegarth usque ad nemus non debent decimari. Relique 
vero terre decimas dabunt. In campo quoque de Scipnum culture ex 
utraque parte vie infra divisas que facte fuerunt coram Ernaldo abbate 
Rieuall[ense] et Bernardo priore de Nouoburgo decimas dabunt. 
Cetere decimales non sunt. Hec autem concessa sunt ex utraque parte 
et scripta ad conservande pacis perpetuitatem et ut nulli liceat ab hac 
forma pacis recedere nec scriptas metas excedere nec transferre nisi 
in periculum anime sue. Teste capitulo Rieuallis. 


Ernald was abbot of Rievaulx from 1189 to 1199 ;3 and Bernard became 
prior of Newburgh between 1181 and 1186 and had probably been succeeded 
by June 1199.4 Although it is uncertain whether they still held office when 
this agreement was made its date was probably not much later. 


(xii) WILDON 


165. Notification by Roger de Mowbray that with the consent of 
Nigel his son he had given to Augustine the prior and the canons 
of Newburgh the land of Little Wildon [par. Coxwold], which 
Bartholomew Gigator had surrendered to him; and had given 
them a carucate of land in Thirsk which they had given to 
Bartholomew and his heirs for a pound of incense or 12d. yearly, 
which carucate he had given for the acquittance of the tithe of 
Great Wildon to Byland abbey; and had also given them all the 
assarts made by their men in Kilburn. [1145-57] 


Byland Chartulary, Egerton MS. 2823, f. 83V (old f. 190Y). 


Omnibus? sancte matris ecclesie fidelibus tam presentibus quam 
futuris Rogerus de Mowbray salutem. Notum vobis facio quod 
Bartholomeus Gigator reddidit mihi terram suam scilicet Parvam 
Wildonam et ego eam dedi in perpetuam elemosinam Augustino priori 
et canonicis meis de Nouoburgo, dante pariter et concedente Nigello 
filio meo. Unam quoque carucatam terre in Thresk dedi eis in ele- 
mosinam quam ipsi, me concedente et confirmante predicto filio meo, 
dederunt Bartholomeo et heredibus suis liberam et quietam annuatim 
pro una libra incensi vel xij.d. Hanc quoque carucatam terre in Thresk 

1 Sunley Hill, about a mile s. of Welburn. 

2 For Howkeld Head see the note to no. 125. 

3 Yorks. Arch. Journal, xxxviii, 34-5. 

4 See Appendix C. 

> The heading states that the charter was copied from the Register of 

Newburgh. 


246 SLUTEVILLE FEE 


dedi eis pro adquietanda decima Magne Wildone monachis de Bella- 
landa. Preterea omnia assarta quecumque assartaverunt homines sui 
in Kilburna concessi et dedi prefatis canonicis perpetuo quieta et 
libera sicut aliqua de tota elemosina mea quiecius et liberius et melius 
tenent et possident. Quecumque etiam aliquis hominum meorum 
quiete et rationabiliter in terra sive in aliis dedit vel daturus est eis 
sive in elemosinam sive per aliam firmam vel alio aliquo justo et 
rationabili modo tam in toftis quam in mansis et aliis que dari solent 
regularibus viris libenter concedo et firmissime confirmo et Nigellus 
pariter filius meus. His testibus, Gundrea matre mea, Aleliz uxore 
mea, Sampsone de Albaneyo, Rogero abbate et capitulo de Bellalanda, 
Radulpho de Wynclyua,! Hugone Camino, Willelmo de Stuteuylla, 
Olyuero de Buscy, Roberto de Dayuyll, Odone de Newsom, Willelmo 
filio Hengeleri, Wartero” de Carleton’, Petro de Hotona. 


At the Survey 3 carucates in Wildon were soke of the manor of Kilburn. 
This charter was issued after the arrival of the canons at their new site at 
Newburgh, probably in 1145 (no. 119 note); and the latest possible date for 
Augustine as prior is 1157.5. Some of the witnesses occur in no. 151 of date 
1154 ; and the third witness suggests a date not much later (cf. nos. 120, 
136). Hugh Camin occurs in 1136-45, and his daughter Maud held a 
knight’s fee of Robert de Stuteville LII in 1166 (see Chapter IV, §3). William 
de Stuteville can probably be identified as a younger brother of Robert 
de Stuteville III (p. 3 above); the date is too early for him to have been 
the latter’s son. 


166. Quitclaim by Bartholomew Gigator to Byland abbey of all 
right in Great and Little Wildon, made in the presence of Roger 
de Mowbray and his knights in his court of Thirsk. 

[1142-c. 1154] 


MS. Dodsworth Ixiii, f. 73, from the Byland Chartulary, f. 234. 


Ebor[acensi] archiepiscopo et omnibus hominibus suis Francis 
et Anglis Bartholomeus Gigator salutem. Sciatis quod ego sursum 
relaxo et quietum clamo de me et meis semper monachis de Bell[alanda] 
totum jus quod habui in Magnam Wildonam et Paruam Wildonam 
cum omnibus pertinentiis in puram et perpetuam elemosinam. Hoc 
quoque feci coram Rogero de Molbray domino meo et militibus ejus 
in sua curia de Thresc. Testis est hujus rei tota plena curia. Monachi 
vero et conventus receperunt me in fratrem domus sue et heredes meos 
pro hoc facto imperpetuum. 


The earliest date is that of the departure of the monks from Hood to 
Old Byland, and it is unlikely that this quitclaim was made later than the 
preceding charter. In the foundation history of Byland it is recorded that 
Roger de Mowbray gave all the land of Wildon in 1140.4 


1 Probably Wvthuilla is intended ; see no. 118. 
2 Sic, probably in error for Waltero. 

3 See Appendix iC. 
4 Mon. Ang., v, 350. 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 247 


167. Quitclaim by Roger de Cundy to Byland abbey of all right in 
Great and Little Wildon, made in the presence of Roger de 
Mowbray and his knights in his court of Thirsk. [1142-c. 1154] 


MS. Dodsworth Ixii, f. 72, from the Byland Chartulary, f. 233V. 


Ebor[acensi] archiepiscopo et omnibus hominibus Francis et 
Anglis Rogerus de Cundy salutem. Sciatis quod reddo sursum relaxo 
et quietum clamo de me et meis semper monachis de Bell[alanda] 
totum jus meum quod habui in Magnam Wildonam et Minorem 
Wildonam cum omnibus pertinentiis in puram et perpetuam ele- 
mosinam. Hoc quoque feci coram Rogero de Molbray domino meo et 
militibus ejus in sua curia de Thresc et testis hujus carte tota plena 
curia. Monachi vero receperunt me in fratrem domus sue et heredes 
meos pro hoc facto imperpetuum. 

This quitclaim was evidently made on the same occasion as the preceding 
one. There is a record of a gift made by Roger de Cundi to Byland abbey 
of a carucate of land in Wildon with the consent of Roger de Moubrai and 
Nigel his som’in the presence of the chapter of St. Peter's, Yorle* 

The grantor, as Roger de Cundy or Condi, witnessed charters in 1138 
and in the periods 1145-c. 1152 and 1154-57 (nos. 115, 125, 146, 153, 163); 
and as one of Roger de Mowbray’s clerks in 1153.4, He may be the Roger 
de Cunde, described as a canon of York, 1154-60. A later Roger de Cundi 
witnessed a Byland charter, 1190-1219.4 It can be regarded as certain that 
the elder Roger was a member of the Cundy or Condet family of which 
Canon Foster has given a detailed account in connexion with Thorngate castle 
outside the walls of Lincoln.> He cannot be identified, however, with the 
Roger de Condet, son of Robert de Condet and Alice his wife, who had 

_ Thorngate castle in her own right ; for that Roger was a man of considerable 
importance, holding 8 knights’ fees of the bishop of Lincoln in 1166, and, 
being under age c. 1141, lived to the reign of Richard I. 


168. Gift by Robert de Daiville to Byland abbey of 17 acres of land 
on the east side of Wildon grange; and quitclaim of the re- 
mainder of the culture in which they lay. [1154-81] 


MS. Dodsworth Ixiii, f. 73, from the Byland Chartulary, f. 234. 


Archiepiscopo Ebor[acensi] et omnibus sancte ecclesie filtis 
Robertus de Eyuile salutem in Domino. Sciatis me dedisse et presenti 
carta mea confirmasse monachis sancte Marie de Bell{alanda] in puram 
et perpetuam elemosinam liberam et quietam ab omni terreno servitio 
et exactione, pro salute anime mee et omnium antecessorum et here- 
dum meorum, septemdecem acras terre in cultura que jacet ab oriente 
parte grangie sue de Wildonia. Remisi etiam et quietum clamavi de 
me et de omnibus meis totam reliquam partem predicte culture per 
divisas etiam et terminos. Et ego et heredes mei manutenebimus et 
warantizabimus predicta omnia predictis monachis contra omnes 
homines imperpetuum. Testibus, Ricardo priore de Neuburgh, 
Thoma de Coleuill, Hugone Malbys, etc. 

1 MS. Dodsworth xciv, f. 18V. 2B ey sC., iit, DO. F82S. 

2 Tbid., no. 1825. 4 Tbid., uo. 1810. 

5 Reg. Antiquissimum, Lincoln Rec. Soc., i, pp. 277-295. 


248 STUTEVILLE FEE 


The first witness gives the extreme limits of date as 1154 and 1186,! 
and the archbishopric was vacant from 1181. The grantor was probably 
Robert de Daiville the younger ; sce the note to no. 137. 


APPENDIX. GC. 
THE EARLY PRIORS OF NEWBURGH 


AUGUSTINE. Charters of Roger de Mowbray printed above 
at nos. 118, 119 show that canons from Bridlington priory came 
to establish a cell at Hood after abbot Roger and his monks had 
left for Old Byland. The date was not earlier than 1142, and not 
later than the consecration of William de Sainte-Barbe, dean of 
York, as bishop of Durham on 20 June 1143. Augustine is named 
as the prior of the canons at Hood in no. 118. Described as prior 
of Hod he witnessed a charter of William the dean and the chapter 
of York to Pontefract priory.2 He continued as prior after the 
canons moved to their new site at Newburgh, which probably 
took place in 1145 (note to no. 119). As prior of Newburgh he 
witnessed a charter of Roger de Mowbray to Rievaulx abbey in 
1154 (no. 151);3 and one of Ernald de Percy II to Guisborough 
priory.* | . 

RICHARD. He is named as prior of Newburgh in a charter 
of Roger de Mowbray, to which the period 1154-57 can be assigned 
(no. 163). He witnessed a charter of Nigel de Mowbray, 1163-69 
(no. 151 note); one of the abbot of Rievaulx relating to Willerby 
dated in 1175 ;> and one of William de Stuteville to Guisborough 
priory, c. 1175-83 (no. 20). He also witnessed several other charters 
issued in the reign of Henry II.6 At Michaelmas 1170 Richard 
prior of Newburgh owed 3 marks ‘pro excessu curie sue’, which 
he paid in the following year ;? and as R. prior of Newburgh he 
was an arbitrator in a dispute settled later than the death of 
archbishop Roger on 26 Nov. 1181.8 The details given here show 
that the extreme limits of his tenure as prior were 1154 and 1186, 
and not less than 1157 and 1181.9 


BERNARD. There can be httle doubt that he was Bernard 
the canon of Newburgh, who sometimes with prior Richard 


1 See Appendix C. 

2 Pontefract Chartulary, i, no. 42; and E£.Y.C., iii, no. 1472, where the 
date assigned, 1148-49, should be amended to 1142-43. 

3 Also two others of the same (£.Y.C., ii, no. 1844, date assigned 1150- 
65; and Rievaulx Chartulary, no. 58). 

4 E.Y.C., ii, no. 747, date assigned c. 1154-1165. 

> Tbid., Mo. 12350. 

6 e.g. Ibid., i, no. 553 ; 11, nos. 713, 954, 1045 ; ii, nos. 1562, 1828, 1849 ; 
and no. 168 in the present volume. 

7 Pipe Roll 16 Hen. II, p. 44 ; 17 Hen. I, p. 70. 

8 Guisborough Chartulary, ii, no. 719. 

9 In the list in V.C.H. Yorks., iii, 229, his successor is given as Swein, 
occurring before 1195, citing IRievaulx Chartulary, 113 {7.e. no. 155]. That 
charter is pd. in the present volume at no. 155, where it is suggested that 
he was not a prior of Newburgh. Indeed the date assigned, c. 1160-76, shows 
that it was issued while Richard was prior. 


v 


CHARTERS RELATING TO THE MOWBRAY TENANCY 249 


witnessed several charters,! one of which was dated in 1175.2. He 
had become prior by September 1186, when he was one of the five 
whose names were submitted by the canons of York to the king 
for filling the vacancy in the archbishopric.2 As Blernard] prior 
of Newburgh he was one of the three who wrote to pope Urban 
III about charters issued to the church of Durham, 1185-87 ;:4 
and one of the officials of the archbishopric of York to whom a 
letter from the justices in eyre was directed, 1187-88.5 He was 
appointed by pope Clement III, 1187-91, as one of the arbitrators 
in a dispute relating to the church of Ilkeston, co. Derby ;* and 
by pope Celestine III in 1196 in a dispute relating to the chapel 
of East Harlsey.? In 1199, as Bernard prior of Newburgh, he was 
an arbitrator in a dispute between the priories of Durham and 
Guisborough. As B. the prior he issued a charter to William 
de Stuteville undertaking to provide a resident chaplain in the 
chapel of Gillamoor, 1183-99 (no. 23); and as Bernard the prior 
he is mentioned in an agreement between Rievaulx abbey and 
Newburgh priory, being a contemporary of abbot Ernald (no. 164). 
He witnessed a charter of the chapter of York, 1191-94 ;° and was 
prior when the priory was given land in Hooton Pagnell.!° 

Bernard’s parentage has been elucidated by Dr. Salter in an 
article on William of Newburgh. He cited a charter,” issued in 
1189, which was witnessed by Bernard prior of Newburgh, des- 
cribed as uncle of the grantor, who was William son of William 
son of Elias ; and he showed that William son of Elias can with 
great probability be identified as William of Newburgh, the 
chronicler, having obtained by marriage c. 1160-65 certain manors 
in Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Wiltshire, and having left 
his wife in 1182 or 1183 to enter Newburgh priory ; and further 
that he had two brothers—Bernard prior of Newburgh and 
William de Meisnilhermer. 

M. On 12 June 1199 a papal confirmation of the church of 
Hovingham was issued to M. the prior and the canons of New- 
burgh. 

D. In virtue of a papal appointment of arbitrators, 5 Feb. 
1200-1, in a dispute relating to the chapel of Whitley, par. 
Kellington, D. prior of Newburgh was one of those who issued the 
award on 12 Nov. 1202.14 


1 ¢.g. Guisborough Chartulary, ii, no. 757 ; and nos. 20, 102, 160 in the 
present volume. ! 

Be NC. 11 mos 1230. 3 Gesta Henrict, i, 352. 

#4 VC Thy Pes2Oo., 

5 Jbtd., iti, Bo. 1682. For prior Biernard| as subsequently one of the 
officials of archbishop Geoffrey see Guisborough Chartulary, no. 720. 

° Bridlington Chartulary, p. 424. 

7 Guisborough Chariulary, no. 1102. 8 Tbid., no. 686c. 

9 Rolls of the Justices ... Yorks., Selden Soc., no. 1144. 

£0 i VoC 3 NA MO. ESO. 

it Bye. Hist: Review, xxiv (1907), pp. 510-14. 

12 Cotton MS. Vitellius E. xv, f. 74. The witness clause runs ‘Bernardo 
priore de Nouo Burgo avunculo meo, Willelmo canonico ejus patre mco, 
Roberto de Witefeld, Willelmo de Mesnilhermer avunculo mco.’ 

13 Cal, Papal Letiers, i, 7. 14 Selby Coucher, ii, no. 925, 


250 SLUTEVILLE FEE 


WALTER. As prior of Newburgh he witnessed an agreement 
between Fountains abbey and Arden priory at Whitsuntide 1212 ;1 
and made a gift of land in Hooton Pagnell not later than 1214.? 
He is probably the Walter, prior, who made an agreement with 
Hugh de Howthorpe by an undated charter, possibly early in the 
thirteenth century.? 


Puitip. In virtue of a papal appointment, 20 Dec. 1224, as 
prior of Newburgh he was an arbitrator in the claim made by St. 
Peter’s hospital, York, against some of the Cistercian houses for 
the yearly render of thraves of corn; the award being issued on 
1 July 1225.4 As prior of Newburgh he was a party to fines on 
7 Jan. 1226-7 and in Jan. 1227-85 


! Fountains Chartulary, ii, 626, * BW G., Vip no. 1386: 
3 Yorks. Deeds, ii, no. 216. : 
1 Wirkstall Coucher, no. 368. > Yorks. Iines, 1218-31, pp. 104, 115. 


INDEX OF SOURCES 


‘he numbers after each source are those of the charters. An asterisk denotes an original 
charter or a facsimile of an original. 


(a) MANUSCRIPT SOURCES 


British MusEUM 


*Ndd..Ch. 19922 bs se Ss 29 
Add. MS. 4715 (Whitby Chartulary) — Hi 28, 123 
Add. MS. 18276 (Fountains Register) om ae <« 72-75 
Add. MS. 37770 (Fountains Chartulary) a oF 31-33, 49 
Add. MS. 37771 (Selby Chartulary) ae a is OS, 2 
Add. MS. 40008 nets Chartulary) .. .. 30, 64-66, 97 
*Cotton Ch. xxix. 63 bs = 61 
Cotton MS. Claudius D. xi (Malton Chartulary) 23 a 96, 98 
Cotton MS. Cleopatra D. 11 (Guisborough Chartulary).. 20, 21, 
101-104 
Cotton MS. Julius D. i (Rievaulx Chartulary) 10, 4a 18; 
89-92, 114, 125-132, 140, 143, 145-162 
Cotton MS. Vespasian E. xx (Bardney Chartulary) Me = 34 
Egerton MS. 2823 (Byland Chartulary) ar 15, 76, 81, 82, 84-86, 
88, 115, 138, 139, 165 
Lansdowne MS. 402 (Register of Abps of York) 59 
Lansdowne MS. 424 cao ee ze us 106, 107 
*Stowe Ch. 479 Be ae 94 
*Stowe Ch. 480... fe oe Hs es = 95 
PUBLIC RECORD OFFICE 
*Anc. Deed BA. E. ee os = . a 62 
Assize Roll 1076 : % ae -— ae 12 
BODLEIAN LIBRARY, OXFORD 
MS. Add. C. 51 (North P pg sae se a: 18 
MS. Dodsworth vii ' 16, 24, 26, ol, 52, 


54, 56, 57, 78- 80, 87, 93, 99, 100, 105, 
113, 118, 121, 133, 140- 142, 144, 164 


MS. Dodsworth Ixiii cee A olay % 115, 166-168 
*MS. Dodsworth Ixxvi i £3 ab ee 112 
MS. Dodsworth xci i%5 a es OF os 58 
MS. Dodsworth xciv ae Ree a as “229, 120; 163 
MS. Dodsworth cxviii ee ae is abt 2 60, SZ 
CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 
Add. MS. 3021 (Red Book of Thorney) ey we a 63 
DEAN AND CHAPTER OF DURHAM 
*Charter 1,.1, Archiep. no. 5 ers Res ee ne 14 
*Charter 3, i, Ebor. no. | as se a ee 7h 
Durham Chartulary ee sts a es ne i 
FARRER MS 
*Charter from Mr. William Brown’s MSS. ae Ba es 137 
MANCHESTER, JOHN RYLANDS LIBRARY 
Latin MS. 220 (Chartulary of St. Mary’s, York) ie, a 1 
NOTTINGHAM UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 
*Lord Middleton’s MSS. .. 43 ies e 73,30, 30 
DEAN AND CHAPTER OF YORK 
Chartulary of St. Mary’s .. es a 4, 5, 27, 70, 134-136 
Registrum Magnum Album ai be ; We 


YORKSHIRE ARCHAEOLOGICAL SOCIETY . 
*Charter DD 65/1 < a a here ae if 


bo 
on 
to 


STUTEVILLE FEE 


(bo) PRINTED SOURCES? 


Calendar of Chartey Rolls, 1300-26 108, 109 
Chron. Mon. de Melsa, Rolls Ser. O27 
Chron. Rogert de Houeden, Rolls Ser. , 42 
Curia Regis Rolls, vols. i, v, vi. 6, 43, 44, 83 
* Facsimiles of National MSS. of Scotland 110 
Kirkstall Coucher Book 50 
Liber Niger Scaccarii, ed. Hearne 67 
Monasticon Anglicanum So, 122. 
Red Book of Exchequer, Rolls Ser. 67 
Registrum Antiquissimum, Lincoln Rec. Soc. 2. 3,90 
Rievaulx Chartulary 124 
Rotuli Chartarum 13, 35 41, 45- 48, 111 
Whitby Chartulary 1 16, 117, 124 
Yorkshive Fines, John oe 6 
' This list only includes charters of which the text is entirely or mainly taken from 


a printed source. 


INDEX+OF PEL RSONS* AND. PLACES 


The references in this and the following index are to the pages in the volume. Local 
and field names, where not identified, are entered under their actual spelling and printed in 


italics. 


Abkettleby (co. Leicester), Ketelebi, 
Ketle-, 25-7 
Acaster Malbis, 209 
Acer : 
Elswald son of, 166 
Tankard son of, 166 
Achard son of Alan, canon of York, 
235 
Acklam, Acclum, Robert de, 177 
Acre, siege of, xi, 35”, 99, 187, 201 
Adam, 166 
abbot of Meaux, 90 
the clerk, 173 
dom., 99 
the ostler, 194 
rector of Cottingham, 109, 125 
son of Orm, 169 
son of Peter, 169 
Robert son of, 163 
Adelard, 187 
Herbert son of, 187 
Adrian IV, pope, 89 
Agat. See Haget 
Aggo, 227 
Agnes daughter of William, 163 
Aicwath, Haicwath, 90, 211, 213” 
Ailred, abbot of Rievaulx, 209-10 
Aincourt, Walter de, 196 
Aislaby (par. Middleton), Aselacbi, 
80, 82, 128, 197” 
Arnald de, 128 
Richard son of Guy de, 128 
Aiville. See Daiville 
Alan : 
archbishop’s clerk, 193 
canon of York, 216 
count [I], 185 
count [III], of Britanny, 141 
the priest, 189 
of Pocklington, 243 
son of Thurkil, 104, 203 
Achard son of, canon of York, 
235 
Richard son of, 224 
Walter son of, 198, 227 
‘Albaneium, Albini. See Aubigny 
Alberville. See Auberville 
Albus, William, 208, 216 
Alcaz, Alan de, 216 
Aldborough, 107-8 
manor, 9, 76, 107 
soke, 107 
Aldburgh, Elizabeth wife of Sir 
Richard Redman, 176 


Aldburgh (Masham), 144 
Aldelandes, 138, 245 
Aldelin, William son of, kg’s justice, 
167, 169 
Aldon’, William son of, 101, 189 
Alexander : 
II, king of Scotland, 68 
111, pope, 717,85, 167; 210, 218; 
227, 243 
the priest, 235 
Alfred, Alveredus, Alvredus : 
the priest, 100 
William the chamberlain, son 
of, 232 
Allerdale (Cumberland), barony, 16” 
Allerton, Alvertun : 
Humphrey de, 243 
Jukel de, 239, 243 
Allerwash (Northumberland), Hal- 
weley, 165 
Alnai, Alnei, de Alneto. See Aunay 
Alnwick (Northumberland), Alnewic, 
6, 113 
Alton (Hampshire), 113 
Alueskarlegate, 225 
Alveredus, Alvredus. See Alfred 
Alvertun. See Allerton 
Amoth. See Aymot 
Amounderness wapentake (co. Lan- 
caster), 9 
Ampleforth, -ford, Geoffrey de, 209 
Amund, the butler, 32 
Amundeville : 
Jocelin de, 182 
, Beatrice his wife, see 
Paynel 
Ralph de, 182-3 
, Ralph his son, 182 
Thomas de, 143 
and cf. Mundevile 
Anastasius IV, pope, 89 
Anchou. See Hancow 
Anet’, Kalph de, 125 
and cf. Aunay 
Angers, abbey of St. Nicholas, 118 
Angerville (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Inf.), 54 
Angevin, Robert, 187 
Anketin son of Durand, 125 
Annesley (co. Nottingham), church, 51 
Anselm, the cierk, 92 
Anselme, Pére, vi, 41 
Ansketil, Anschitil, 187” 
the usher, 203 


254 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Apelgarth, -gavd, 91, 232 
Appelton, Robert de, 109 
Appleby (Westmorland), castle, 6 
Arches, fee, 107 
William de, 108 
, Juetta his wife, 108 
——, Juetta his dau., wife of 
Adam de Brus and Roger 
de Flammaville, 214 
Arden priory, 250 
Arderne, Arden’, -denn’, family, 12” 
Ralph de, 12x” 
——, Amabel his wife, see 
Glanville 
Thomas de, 11, 12 
William de, 118 
Argentom, -on, -um, family, 170 
William de, 170-2 
Arkelcroft, 92 
Arques (Normandy, dept. Seine-Inf., 
arr. Dieppe), 70x, 71 


castle, 54 
Arraz, Stephen de, canon .of York, 
235 
Arthuret (Cumberland), 14, 22, 78, 
127-8, 195 


church, 15, 196 
rector, see Robert 
Arundel, earl of. See William 
Arundel, Harundel : 
Osbert, the priest and canon of 
Beverley, 214, 233, 235 
Reginald, 106 
mag. Roger, 101, 189 
William, 153 
, Joan his wife, 153 
Aselacbi. See Aislaby 
Asketin, the priest of Witham, 100 
Aton,’ 77 
and see Ayton 
Atton. See Etton 
Auberville, Alber- : 
Hugh de, 11, 12 
William de, 213 
Aubigny, Albaneium, -a, -eyum, 
Alben-, Albin-, Albenni, 
Albini, Aubenni : 
Nigel. 0°, 109) 23; <G7i..73, 75, 
85-6, 98, 116, 118, 119», 
179; 187;.-200> 205, 207, 
209-10, 221-2, 230-2, 235-6, 


238 

——, Gundreda his wife, see 
Gournay 

——-, Roger his’ son, see 
Mowbray 


Ralph d’, 15n, 16” 

, Sibyl his wife, see Valognes 

———, Ralph his son, 15 

———, Gunnora his dau., wife of 
Robert de Gant = and 
Nicholas de Stuteville [T], 
15, 467 


Aubigny—continued 
Roger d’, 200 
Roger son of Samson d’, 207 
Samson d’, clerk of Roger de 
Mowbray, 200”, 203-7, 246 
William d’, the butler, 85, 200 
William d’, Brito [II], 15x 
William d’, [IIT], 15 
Aubourn (co. Lincoln), 15 
Audley, Hugh de, earl of Gloucester, 
65 


, Margaret his wife, 65 
Auftay (Normandy, dept. Seine-Inf., 
arr. Dieppe, cant. Tétes), 
44n, 71n 
family, 44n 
Gulbert d’, 707, 71 
John d’, 44 
Jordan d’, 42, 44 
, Juliana his wife; see 
Golescalc 
Richard d’, 44 
Auforde, Robert de, 159 
Augustine, prior of Hood and New- 
burgh, 202, 205-7, 233, 244- 
6, 248 
Aumale (Normandy, dept. Seine-Inf.): 
counts of, see Stephen, William 
abbey, 29, 32 
, abbot of, 28x 
Aunay, Alnei, -ney, de Alneto, 
Aneto, del Alnai : 
Fulk d’, 196 
Ralph d’, 125 
Ralph d’, archdeacon of Cleve- 
land and York, 217-8 
Robert d’, monk of Whitby, 
master of St. Michael’s 
hospital, hermit of Hood, 
149, 204-5, 207, 209-11, 
221-2 
Auuele. See Kirk Ella 
Auville. See Daiville 
Avranches, Averinges, family, 137” 
john. d', 437 
Richard d’, 137 
Axholme, isle of (co. Lincoln), 
Haxingholme, 2, 115, 117-9 
Aymot (par. Middleton), Amoth, 
12 


Ayton, Atona, -une, William de, 
182-3 
Ayton, East, 77” 
Ayton, Great, Aton in Cleveland, 8, 
37-9, 67-8, 106, 127, 177 
advowson, 39 
church, 39, 105 
court, 39 
manor, 38-9, 78, 80-1 
market and fair, 38-9 
mills, 39, 67 
Nicholas son of Osbert de, 37 
Ayton, Little, 38” 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 255 


Bacon, -un : 
Edmund, 637 
Richard, 222 
Bacqueville-en-Caux (Normandy, 
dept. Seine-Inf., arr. 
Dieppe), Bascaville, 
Basche-, 70-1 
canton, 70 
church, 70”, 71” 
priory, 70x 
Nicholas de, 70-1 
, Baldric his son, 71 
Bagby (par. Kirby Knowle), 153 
manor, 75, 152, 181 
Bagthwaite (par. Middleton), Bage-, 
Bagge-, Baggh-, 


Baildon, W. Paley, 237 
Bailol. See Baliol 
Bailueir. See Belvoir 
Bainton, manors, 75 
Balbusc, -busch, 90, 211 
Balchenceio, -genzeio, de. See 
Bocquencé 
Baldric, 70 
the clerk, 213 
the duke’s archer, 70 
Elizabeth sister of, 70 
Hugh son of, see Hugh 
Walter son of, 71 
Teutonicus, 70-1 
, Wigerius his brother, 70 
and see Bacqueville, Bocquencé, 
Buhu, Cottingham, Martel 
Baldwin, the clerk, 212, 214, 233 
Baliol, Bailol, Baill-, Balliol, family, 
607 
fee, 6, 95 
Sir Alexander de, 42, 60, 62», 
64n 
——, Eleanor his wife, see 
Genoure 
John de, 21, 60x 
Dervorguilla his wife, 
see Galloway 
John de, king of Scotland, 21, 
60n 
William de, 239, 241-2 
Balk (par. Kirby Knowle), 153 
Balke, 245 
Ball’, 158 
Bamburgh (Northumberland), 13x 
castle, 6 
Banks, I. C.,.2 
Bannockburn, battle of, 178 
B’ard, Ralph, 150 
Bardney abbey (co. Lincoln), -eneia, 


Bardolf, -ulf, family, 467 
Hugh, sheriff of Yorkshire, 106, 
114 
Sir William, 47 
Bardsey, Berdeseya, 10, 114, 123 


Barentin (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Inf., arr. Rouen), 707 
Baret, Henry, 151 
Barkerthorpe. See Barthorpe 
Barlborough (co. Derby), 53 
manor, 50, 61 
Barnard Castle (co. Durham), 607 
Barnby (par. Bossall), Barne-, 74, 
79, 174, 175n 
Richard de, 79 
[Baro], Ralph, the archdeacon, 233, 


235 
Barr’, Roger, 233 
Bartholomew : 


the clerk, 107 
prior of St. Andrew’s, York, 108 
Barthorpe Bottoms (par. Acklam), 
Barkerthorpe, 107-8 
Barton, William de, 151 
Barton (? in Cropton), 17 
Barton in Fabis (co. Nottingham), 
42, 53, 55-6, 58 
manor, 50, 52, 58-9, 64n 
Barton-upon-Humber (co. Lincoln), 
110, 125 
manor, 187 
Bartondale (Cropton), 17x 
Barugh, Great and Little (par. 
Kirby Misperton), 75, 79 
Bascavilla, Basche-. See Bacqueville 
Basilia, prioress of Keldholme, 105 
Basing, Nicholas de, 15 
, Agnes his wife, see Scoteny 
Basingham : 
Sir John de, 33x 
———, Gundreda [?] his wife, 
see Stuteville (Roger) 
, Agnes, Rohese, her daus.., 
29, 33-4 
Robert de, 29, 34 
, Agnes his wife, see 
Stuteville (Roger) 
Baskerville, Walter de, 27n 
, Isolda his wife, see Pantulf 
Basset, Richard, 51 
Bastard, William, 183 
, Isabel his wife, see Paynel 
Bathonia, Baton, Sir Henry de, 
sheriff of Yorkshire, 129-30 
Batinum, 156 
Bavent, Roger de, 213 
Bayeux (Normandy, dept. Calvados), 
church, xii 
Beadlam (par. Helmsley), Bolum, 
Bothlum, -lun, 224-6 
Roger son of Bernard de, 226 
Beauchamp, Bel-, de Bellocampo : 
John de, 141-2 
Robert, 233, 236 
Beauver. See Belvoir 
Bedfordshire. See Wardon 
Bedingham (Norfolk), 45-7 
advowson and church, 45 


256 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Bedingham (Norfolk)—continued 
manor, 45 
Benedict de, 45 
Beeland, Beg-, Bei-. See Byland 
Beelun. See Bellun 
Beler : 
Hamo, Hamund, 2007, 212-4, 233 
Ralph, 211-2, 214-5, 229, 233-6, 
244 
Robert, 211-5, 243 
Belet, Michael, kg’s justice, 167, 169 
Bellalanda. See Byland 
Bellencombre (Normandy, dept. 
Seine-Inf.), 55” 
Bellocampo, de. See Beauchamp 
Bellun, -um, Beelun, Beellun, Beth- 
lun, -lum : 
Geoffrey de, 109 
Nicholas de, 213, 222, 239 
Ralph de, 212, 221, 234, 237 
Belvoir (co. Leicester), Bailueir, 
Bauuair, Bealveer, Beau- 
ver, -uair, -ueir, Beiaveir, 
Belveir, -ver, -uair, -ueer, 
Beuuer, 15, 214 


fee, lin 
Ralph de, steward of Roger de 
Mowbray, 181-3, 213-4, 


222,233, 239, Z4Z 
, Constance his wife, 182 
Robert de, 212-4, 233, 239, 243 
Bempton, 31 
Bence, Ernald son of. See Ernald 
Bendinges, Bennigas, William de, 
ke’s justice, 167, 169 
Benedict : 
the clerk, 109, 201 
the serjeant of Nicholas de 
Stuteville [II], 19 
son of Gervase, 227-9 
. Helewise his wife, 228 
——, Ralph, William his 
nephews, 228 
son of Reiner, 216 
Benefeld, Robert de, 239, 242 
Beningbrough (par. Newton on 
Ouse), 175 
Benjamin, the clerk, 201 
Berad, William, 125 
Berard, the knight (of Cottingham), 
90) 


Berdeseya. See Bardsey 
Beregeb’, Bergebi. See Borrowby 
Berengerestan, 91 
Berkshire, 72; see Shaw, Wallingford, 
Windsor 
Berlay, Henry de, 138 
Bermondsey abbey (Surrey), 50 
Bernard : 
bishop of Carlisle, 196 
canon and prior of Newburgh, 
101-3, 189, 242, 245, 248-9 
prior of Bridlington, 207n 


Berton, William de, 129 
Bertram, Sir Roger [III], 60, 61x 
, Eda his wife, 61” 
, Agnes his dau., 60 
Bertrand, Bertram. See Bricquebec 
Bethlun. See Bellun 
Beuerli, Albert de, 227 
Beuuer. See Belvoir 
Beverdam, Biuredan (Normandy), 
mill at, 48-9 
Beverley, -lacum, 189-90 
canons of, see Arundel, Morinus, 
Osbert, Simon 
men of, 10”, 65 
Bewick (Holderness), 1417” 
Biddlesden abbey (co. Buckingham), 
49 
Bielby (wap. Harthill), 9 
Bigby: (co. Lincolm); 14,..65,. 77, 
135-6, 140, 188% 
manor, 73 
Bigod, -got, Bygod : 
Hugh, earl of Norfolk, 227 
Hugh, justiciar, 22, 184” 
, Joan his wife, see Stute- 
ville (Nicholas IT) 
John le, rector of Cottingham, 
9 


Roger, 85 
Roger, earl of Norfolk, 22 
Roger the younger, earl of 
Norfolk and earl Marshal, 
22, 61, 184 
Bilbrough, 182 
Bilson, John, 191 
Binnington, Bining-, Henry de, 177 
Birdsall, Briddeshal’, 90 


family, 186 

Adam, son of Robert de, 111-2, 
186 

——, William his son, see 
Mowthorpe 


Robert son of William de, 186 
Birkin, Byrkyn, Sir John de, 138-9 
Biuredan. See Beverdam 
Blachou, moor, 37-8 
Blaikeswaith, 225 
Blakiston, Mr. N., vii, 48” 
Blanchmarle grange (par. Warter), 

29n 
Blancmusters, family, 146 

Roger de, 146 
Blois, adj. Blesensis : 

William de, subdean of Lincoln, 

110 

mag. William de, 208 

Bloworth (in Farndale), Blawad, 
-wat, 232n, 234 

Crossing and Slack, 234 
Blundus, Simon, 156 
Blyth, justices at, 65, 195 
Boby, Botby, Hugh de, deputy- 

sheriff of Yorkshire, 106 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 25] 


Bocquencé (Normandy, dept. Orne, 
arr. Argentan, cant. La 
Ferté-Fresnel), de Balchen- 
ceio, -genzeio, 70, 71” 

honour of, 71 

Baldric de, 70 

, Billehildis his wife, 71x 

——, Robert, Baldric, his sons, 
71n 

———, Wiger his brother, 71 

—-—, , Fulk his son, 71” 

——., Elizabeth his sister, wife 
of Fulk de Bonneval, 71 

Boeles, Elias de, 42, 47 

, Alice his wife, see Estoute- 

ville (William) 

Bolebec, Walter de, 31 

, Mary his wife, see Merlay 

Boletisham, Robert de, 81 

Boltby (par. Felixkirk), Boltebi, -by, 
Bolthebi, -beia, Boutebi, 
-by,.20, 79, 99, 128-9, 142, 
160, 163-8 

manor, 74, 164 

family, 104, 129, 160 

pedigree, 162 

fee, 80, 142, 154, 160-70 
Adan I de, 104,: 135, 154, 156, 

160, 162-3, 165-8, 182-3, 

208, 218 

, Savaric his nephew, 163 

Adam Ii de, 129, 157, 162-s, 

164n 

Adam III de, 162, 164-5, 170” 

, Anora [?] his wife, 162, 165 

——., Eve his dau., wife of Alan 

de Walkingham, Richard 
Knoute, and William de 
Cantilupe, 162, 164-5 
——, Isabel his dau., wife of 
Thomas de Lucy, 162, 164-5 

Adam son of Jordan de, 162-3 

Alan de, 166 

Ivo de, kg’s minister, 239 

John de, 160, 162, 165-7 

Jordan de, 104, 160, 162, 165-7 

, Sibyl his wife, 104, 160, 162 

Nicholas son of Adam _ de, 
128-9, 162-4 

——, Philippa his wife, see 
Tindale 

——, his dau., [?] wife of 
Walter de Karrow, 162, 164 

Odo de [and ? Gwido de], 160, 
162, 163”, 165-8, 223 

——, Juetta or Judit his wife, 
160, 162, 165-7 

Siward de, 166 

Bolton-on-Dearne, 61 

Bolum. See Beadlam 

Bonby (co. Lincoln), Bondebi, 76”, 
115-6 

Bonde, Alan, 150 


Boneface, Boni- : 
Eustace son of Alan, 184 
Hugh, 166, 228 
William or Walter, 79, 127, 184 
Bonefeld, Adam de, 198 
Bonneval, Fulk de, 71 
, Elizabeth his wife, see 
Bocquencé 
Borart, Robert, 169 
Boroughbridge, Pons Burgi, Punde- 
burg, 13, 14, 20n, 120, 122 
Borrowby (par. Leake), Beregeb’, 
-egb’, -gebi, -ghebi, -heby, 
94, 160, 163, 165, 169-70 
family, 169-70 
Michael de, 169 
Michael de, younger, 170 
Ralph son of Uctred de, 169 
, Roger, Richer, Nicholas, 
his sons, 169 
Roger de, 170 
Thurstan de, 94 
Bosco, de: 
Ralph, 107-9 
Roger, 109 
Bosco Willelmi, Geoffrey de, 104, 
106-7, 169, 203 
Bossall, -ale, Boszale, Botsal, -shal, 
Bozale, -hale, 74, 79, 174, 
175, 176 
church, 21, 68, 176 
rectors, see Stuteville (William), 
William 
Richard the clerk of, 103 
family, 175-6 
fee, 174-7 
sir John de, 79, 174, 175”, 176 
Nicholas de, 176 
Norman de, 97, 175 
Paulinus de, 175 
, Juliana his wife, 175 
Richard Ide, 21, 175 
, Maud his wife, see Ganton 
Richard II de, 38”, 175-7 
, Mabel his wife, see Stute- 
ville (Robert) 
——, Maud his dau., 175-7 
William de, sheriff of Yorkshire, 
forest justice, 176 
William de, younger, 175” | 
Botby. See Boby 
Bote, William, 151 
Bothlum. See Beadlam 
Bouche, the captal de, 61 
Bouinton. See Boynton 
Bourbon, Francois de, 63 
Adrienne his wife, see 
Estouteville 
Bourg-Dun, Le (Normandy, dept. 
Seine-Inf., arr. Dieppe), 
70n, 71 
Bourn (co. Cambridge), 53 
honour of, 50, 52-3 


258 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Bourne (co. Lincoln), 21” 
manor, 78 
Boutebi. See Boltby 
Bowforth (par. Kirkby Moorside), 
Bulford, -fort, Buleforda, 
-ia, 90-1, 228, 232-4, 238-42 
Alan de, 211, 217-9, 240; and 
see Ryedale 
Robert de, 150, 226-8 
Boye, Richard, 128 
Boynton, Bouin-, Bouing-, Bovyng-, 
family, 32 
Adam de, 106, 109 
W. de, 194 
Walter de, 113, 123, 134 
William de, 134 
Brackenhill (Cumberland), 195 
Bradmore (co. Nottingham), 53, 
55-6, 58 
manor, 58-9 
Bragaby. See Brawby 
Braham (par. Spofforth), 11x” 
and see Bramham 
Braithwaite, 40 
Bramfeld, William de, subdean of 
Lincoln, 110 
Bramham, Braham, Bran-, 10-12, 
76, 111-2, 186 
manor, 112 
Brandesburton, 32n 
Brandsby, manor, 75 
Bransdale, Branze-, Brandesdala, 
92, 93n, 94-5, 231-2, 234 
Brantingham, 28”, 29-31, 35, 37, 
79, 82, 142 
Brawby (par. Salton), Bragaby, 220 
family, 220 
Gospatric de, 220-1 


Bredlintona, Brelling-. See Brid- 
lington 

Breedon-on-the-Hill (co. Leicester), 
24-7 


Brenton, Richard de, 107 
, Richard his son, 107 
Brerton, Richard de, 123 
Bret, Richard le, 177 
Breth, Simon son of Robert, 230 
Breton, -tun, Plesencia dau. of 
William le, 79 
Brettevill : 
Robert de, 42, 54 
, his wife, see Estouteville 
(Robert I) 
Robert de, younger, 64 
Brian : 
the clerk, 166-7 
Michael son of, 208 
Bricquebec, Alice Bertrand or Ber- 
tram de, wife of Robert 
d’ Estouteville, 42, 63 
Briddeshal’. See Birdsall 
Bridelesthon’. See Burston 


Bridlington, Bredlintona, Brellin-, 
Brelling- : 
priory, 30, 32, 107, 133-4, 136, 
173, 175-7, 206, 248 
——, priors of, see Bernard, 
Gregory, Roger 
, canons, see Gilbert, Ranulf, 
Reginald 
Ernald de, 241 
Briennio, the clerk, 229 
Brinklow (co. Warwick), Brinkelawe, 
17, 20n, 76, 83, 119 
manor, 7, 19, 80, 119 
market and fair, 19 
Britanny, 7”, 11 
count of, see Alan 
Brito, Briton, 169 
Alexander son of Richard, 107 
, H. his brother, 107 
Richard, 107 
William, 209 
William, depty-sheriff of York- 
shire, 113, 124, 159 
.. ewaldus, 131 
Briwere : 
Isabel dau. of William, wife of 
Baldwin Wake, 21 
William, 8 
Brompton, Brump-, Bruntun : 
Henry de, 177 
Robert de, 217 
Brompton (wap. Pickering Lythe), 
120 


Brooke, Mr. C. N. L., 132” 
Brough (Westmorland), castle, 6 
Brundone, -onne, -une, 133 
Brundos : 
Turgis, 195 
William, 195 
Brunsadelboy, 138 
Brus, Bruys : 
fee, vili, 28”, 29”, 101, 152-3 
Adam I de, 214 
, Juetta his wife, see Arches 
Adam IT de, 28, 114, 152 
, Agnes his wife, see 
Stephen, c. of Aumale 
Peter I de, 30, 114, 126 
Peter III de, 31, 68 
, his steward, see Stute- 
ville (Nicholas) 
Robert de, 28x 
Buckingham, archdeacon of. See 


Stephen 
Buckinghamshire, 77, 79, 81n, 83, 
120, 184, 249 


and see Biddlesden, Burston, 
Eakley, Wing 
Buckton (par. Bridlington), Buke-, 31 
dom. Robert de, monk, 130 
Bueleie, Richard de, 105 
Bueri, -herie, Buhuri, Walter, 212, 
204, 237 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 259 


Buhu, Baldric de, 97 
Buissi, Jordan de, 166 
Bulford, Bule-. See Bowforth 
Bullington priory (co. Lincoln), 187 
Bulmer, fee, 220 
Bertram de, 220 
Bulmer (wapentake), Bule-, Walter 
[rural] dean of; 217 
Burd’, Roger, 143 
Burdale (par. Wharram Percy), 74, 
178 
Burgenun, John, 103 
Burgh (Cumberland), barony, 8 
Burgh, Hubert de, 14x 
Burston (par. Aston Abbots, co. 
Buckingham), Bridelesthon’, 
TF 
Burton, Dr. John, ix, 93x 
Burton Agnes, Annais, vii-ix, 4, 27, 
29-32, 84, 107, 133 
manor, 28, 31 
soke, 28n 
market and fair, 31 
Burton Constable, ix 
Burton-in-Lonsdale, Lanesdale, 115, 
117-9 
castle, 119 
Burtonholme, 155 
Burun, Erneis de, 185 
Buscy, -ci, Buthci, family, 170 
Oliver de, 158-9, 200, 212, 
233n, 237, 244, 246 
Ralph de, 212 
Robert de, 212-4, 233, 239, 243 
William de, 209, 223 
Bussey, de Busseto : 
Alan de, 228 
Bartholomew son of William 
de, 32 
——, Beatrice his wife, see 
Stuteville (Roger) 
Butevilain, -vilayn, Robert, arch- 
deacon and dean of York, 
98, £49, £73; * 215-6; 218, 
233-5 
Buttercrambe (par. Bossall), -cram, 
Buttrecamb, 1, 10, 12, 17, 
22, 66-7, 74, 78, 84, 113-4, 
148, 174, 178 
manor, 5”, 21-2, 37, 67, 73-4, 
79, 80, 81n, 86, 112, 120, 
135, 148; 170; 174-3, 177, 
180, 183-6 
market and fair, 10, 113 
mill, 74” 
Nicholas the clerk of, 227 
Butterwick (E.R.), Buterwic, 205 
Durand de, 205 
Butterwick (? E.R.), 1927 
Robert de, 192” 
, Maud his sister, wife of 
Thomas de Etton, 192 
See Bigod 


Bygod. 


Byland abbey, Bee-, Beg-, Begh-, 


Bei-, Beil-, Bellalanda, 3, 
5, 7, 33, 89, 103-4, 129, 
148-9, 152-3, 158-60, 180, 
200, 206, 209, 223-4, 244-7 

abbots of xi, L157, 152-3, 
159-60, 163, 184; and see 
Hamo, Philip, Roger 

prior, see Walter 

cellarer, see Landric 

chapter, 246 

chartulary, x, 89n 

foundation history, x, 202, 204, 
207, 223, 246 

liberty of, 152 

see also Hood 


Byland, Old, Vetus Bellalanda, 
148-9, 160, 206, 209, 246, 
248 


Byrkyn. See Birkin 

Bywell (Northumberland), 607, 64 
manor, 61 

Caily, Roger de, 98 

, Joan his wife, see Daiville 

Cainel, Roger, 131 

Caiton, See Cayton 

Calcewath wapentake (co. Lincoln), 

72 


Calder abbey (Cumberland), 200 
Caluecroft, Kalue-, 245 
Caluecroftum, 154 
Caluetona. See Cawton 
Calvus, Roger, 209 
Cam (par. Kilburn), Camb, 223 
Camb’, William de, 167 
Cambridgeshire, 53 
sheriff of, 53x 
and see Bourn, Ely, Thorney, 
Weston Colville, Wilburg- 
ham 
Camera, Ralph de, 241 
Camin, Comin, family, 1367 
fee, 140-2 
Hugh, 140-1, 246 
———, Anor his wife, 141 
———, Maud his dau., wife of 
Robert de Meaux, 135, 
140-2, 246 
Odard, 1417” 
Roger, 227 
Campsey (Suffolk), prioress of, 56 
Canci, Ansger de, 132 
Canobie priory (co. Dumfries), 196, 
198-9 
Canterbury, 11 
archbishop of, see 
(Hubert) 
Cantilupe, family, 165 
Nicholas de, 162, 165 
Walter de, 45 
William de, 45, 126 
William, younger, 53 


Walter 


260 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Cantilupe—continued 
William de (Lord), 162, 165 
, Eve his wife, see Boltby 


Captoft, Cape-, Captot, Cape-, 
Cnape-, Kaptoft, family, 
174 


fee, 174, 175n 

Reginald or Reiner, 91, 104-6, 
150, 174, 203, 208 

——, younger, 79, 174 

, Helewise his wife, 


, 


174 
Roger de, 135, 174 
, younger, 174 
and see Knaptoft 
Carcassonne, -casona, Peter de, 
abp’s clerk, 214 
Cardoil. See Carlisle 
Carenci, Ralph de, 108 
Carl, Walter son of, 159 
Carlisle, Cardolium, -liolum, Cardoil, 
Karleolum, adj. Karleo- 
lensis, 10, 195, 198 
accounts (of 1130), 198 
kg’s exchequer at, 78, 195 
sheriff of, 14 
bishop of, 17; and see Bernard 
church of, 6 
archdeacon of, see Ros 
William de, 101, 189 
Amabel dau. of William de, 14 
Carlton, Carle-, Karletun, Walter 
de, 212, 233, 237, 240, 246 
Carnaby, Gernetteby, William de, 
109 


Carthew, G. A., 36 
Carwinley (Cumberland), -windlaw, 
-windelhow, Karwindelaue, 
124 
Sir Robert de, 124, 127 
Castillon (France, dept. Gironde), 
Chatillon, lord of. See 
Poncius 
Castle Acre priory (Norfolk), 34, 36 
Castle Bytham (co. Lincoln), 32 
Castley (par. Leathley), 13 
Cato, Roger, 101, 189 
Cattal and Little Cattal (par. Hun- 
singore), Cathale, 97, 106-7 
mill, 106-7 
Catter beck and bridge, 95x 
Catton, -tune, Richer de, 154 
Causebi. See Cowesby 
Caux, Pays de (Normandy), 1 
Cave, 29n, 31 
North, Northcava, 66, 74, 78, 
82, 140-1, 142 
, advowson, 141 
. church, 122, 140 
——., Roger son of Peter de, 190 
—., , Agnes his wife, 191 
, William de, 190 
South, 182 


Cawthorn (par. Middleton), Kau- 
thorn, 82, 127, 147, 197n 
Cawton (par. Gilling), Caluetona, 
Kalueton in Rydale, 79, 
80n, 143, 146-52, 174 
manors, 74 
Luke de, 147 
Stephen de, 147 
Thurstan son of Bernard de, 149 
Cayton, Caiton, Nicholas de, 123 
Cayton (par. South Stainley), 175 
Celestine III, pope, 249 
Cestria. See Chester. 
Chambord, -bar, -bard, -berd, -boid’, 
Chaumbard, family, 183 
Emeline dau. of Avice de, wife 
of Ralph de Kirkby Ouse- 
burn, 108 
Henry, 226 
John, 183 
ik... 129 
Robert (de), 150, 183-4, 227 
Robert, younger, 79, 183 
William (de), 105, 107, 150 
Charcheni. See Karkeni 
Charnek’, 177 
Chast[ello] or fellione], Robert de, 
222, 


Chateau-Dun (France, dept. Eure- 
et-Loir), vicomte de. See 
Geoffrey 

Chatillon. See Castillon 

Chatwait, 95 

Chedolm, Richard de, 96 

Cherbourg (Normandy), 4 

Chester, Cestria : 

bishops of, see Richard, Walter 
earl of, see Ranulf 
honour of, 20, 37, 78n, 79 

Cheu, Thomas le, 124 

Chevet Park, xn 

Chinon (Touraine), lly” 

Chinun, Ralph, 236 

Chirchaby, -ebi. See Kirkby 

Church Oakley (Hampshire), 1, 41, 
56, 72 

Ckanareburg, Cnare-. See Knares- 
borough 

Clair Ruissel nunnery (Normandy, 
dept. Seine-Inf.), Clarus 
Rivus, 46” 

Clapham, Glapham, 77 

Clarendon (Wiltshire), 4, 11 

Council of, 201 

Claxby St. Andrew (co. Lincoln), 72 

Claxton (par. Bossall), 68, 79, 174, 
176 

Clement : 

ITI, pope, 249 
abbot of St. Mary’s York, 7 
68, 217-8 : 

Cleveland, Clive-, Clyve-, Cliflandia, 

76, 157, 219, 227,231 -2;- 254 


? 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 261 


Cleveland—coniinued 
archdeacons of, see Aunay, 
Jeremy, John son of Letold, 
Muschamp 
Cliffe, John de, 139 
Cliffe (wap. Harthill), Cliff, 19, 292, 
31 


Clifford, Roger de, 112 
, his wife, see Vipont 
Clifford (par. Bramham), 76, 79, 
111-2, 185-6 
manor, 112 
fee, 185-6 
Clifland, 91 
Clipston (co. Northampton), 4, 6, 11 
Cnapetot. See Captoft 
Cockersand hospital (co. Lancaster), 
8n 
Cod beck, Cotesbec, 169 
Codi, Geoffrey, 156 
Cokewald. See Coxwold 


Cold Kirby (wap. Birdforth), 
Kereby, 6, 76, 146, 148-9, 
157-8, 163-4 


manor, 157, 163 
Coldic. See Cowldyke 
Coldingham, mag. Richard de, 208 
Colemere, 230 
Coleslund’, 94 
Coleville, Colvilla, family, 32” 
Anselm de, 29, 32” 
Edmund de, 33 
John de, 143 
Philip de, 143 
Roger de, 33 
Thomas de, 213, 233n, 239, 244, 
247 
Walter de, 33 
William de, 143 
William de (of Castle Bytham), 
32-3 
——— Beatrice his wife, sée 
Stuteville (Roger) 
——., Alice his dau., 33 
Maud her dau., 
wife of William de St. 
Quintin, 33 
Collingham, Coling-, 114, 123 
manor, 114 
Collom, -um. See Cowlam 
Colville, Weston. See 
Colville 
Combe abbey (co. Warwick), 119” 
Comin. See Camin 
Compton (par. Collingham), 114 
Compton Verney (co. Warwick), 
Compton ye ae 136” 
Condet, -di, Cundi, -e, -y, family, 247 
Robert de, 247 
, Alice his wife, 247 
Roger de, clerk of Roger de 
Mowbray, 200, 204, 212, 
229, 235, 244, 247 


Weston 


Condet—continued 
Roger de, canon of York, 247 
Roger de, younger, 247 
Roger son of Robert de, 247 
Cordanville, Corda-, Cordel-, Cor- 
davile, fee, 170-3 
Adam de, 170, 173 
Peter de, 135, 170-2 
Cornbrough, de Corneburgo, William 
de, 223 
Cornwall, -ewalia, 
-walia : 
earl of, see Richard 
Samson de, 119, 213, 215-6, 


-ubia, -uwala, 


231-2 

——, Hestilda his wife, 213, 
215-6 

Cosford (co. Warwick), 23, 26, 79, 
81, 83 


Cote Garths (nr. Wombleton), 230 
Cotesbec. See Cod beck 
Cothmanelandes, 245 
Cottingham, Cothig-, Cotin-, 
Cotinge-, Cotinghe-, 
Cotyng=, vx. oi, 5, -« 10; 
12n; 14, 16, 17, D2 25: 
40, 66, 68”, 72, 78-9, 82, 
89, 90, 102, 110-1,. 113-4, 
178, 188 
castle, 5 
chaplain of, 25 
‘heir of’, 188 
manors, 17, 18, 20-2, .67, 73-4, 
78, 80, S8lx, 82n, 135-6, 
141, 179, 185-6, 191 
market and fair, 10, 110-1 
marsh, 102 
mills and fisheries, 74”, 89, 90, 
102 
woods, 89 
church, 19, 69 
advowson, 78 


rectors, see Adam, _ Bigod, 
Laurence, Stuteville 
(Osmund), William (as 
below) 


Baldric de, 71 
Berard de, the knight, 90 
Bernard de, 82n 
Walter son of Baldric de, 71 
William de, the clerk and rector 
of, 91, 101, 103-4, 107, 109, 
133; F89, 203 
Cottingwith, East and West, 9n 
Cotyngham meadow in Knaptoft, 
7An 
Coutances, Custance, Ralph the 
clerk of Walter de, 169 
Cowesby, Couse-, Causebi, vii, viii, 
7, 27-8, 34-7, 62n, 79, 84, 
96, 142-3, 145 
manor, 74 
fee, 75”, 142-6 


262 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Cowesby—continued 
chapel and chaplain, 34, 95-6, 
143 
Cowlam, Collom’, -um : 
Alan de, 194 
Robert son of Nicholas de, 193-4 
, Maud his wife, see Etton 
Cowldyke (nr. Welburn), Coldic, 91, 
232, 234, 238, 240-1 
Cowthorpe, 165 
Cowton, East, 183 
Coxwold, Cokewald, Cuke-, Kirke-, 
Cucuald, Cukewad, 1, 3, 5, 
39, 84, 104, 114-5, 117-8, 
200, 206 
manor, 75; 85 
mill, 206-7 
church, 85, 201 
Coxwoldshire, Cukewaldsir’, Kirke- 
walde-, 115, 117-8 
‘Crachetorp’, manor, 191 
Cramaville : 
Ralph de, 222 
Robert de, 29, 30, 33, 134 
, Lsabel his wife, see Stute- 
ville (Roger) 
Cranswick, Crauncewyk, 19, 74, 194 
and see Hutton Cranswick 
Craon, family, 3, 72-3 
Alan de, 72-3 
Guy de, 3, 72-3 
, his wife, see Hugh son of 
Baldric 
Craucemore. See Gransmoor 
Crayke, Creic, Walter de, 208 
Creissi, Hugh de, 7 
Cresop. See Kershope 
Crevequer, Robert de, 237 
Crich (co. Derby), 51” 
Crick (co. Northampton), Kreic, 
115, 117-8 
Crispinum, William, 230 
Cropton (par. Middleton), 17, 78, 
80, 82, 126-7, 196-7 
manor, 80-1 
Crosby (par. Leake), 
erange, 169 
Crossebergh, 158 
Cruer, -4, <6, Crier, suerte? "Croera, 
-e, Crowell, Croyer, family, 
147 
fee, 143, 146-52 
Alan, 147 
John, 146-8 
Osmund, Aumundus, 147, 149- 
50 
Richard, 67, 25, 91, 97, 135-6, 
146, 148-9, 151, 163, 208 
Richard, younger, 147, 150-1 
; , his seal, 151 
Robert, 147, 151 
———, /mma his dau., 147 
Thomas, 147 


Crossebi, 


Cruer—continucd 
William, 147-8 
, Ellen his wife, 147 
Cuckney (co. Nottingham), 72» 
Cucuald, Cukewad. See Coxwold 
Cumbe, Elias de, sheriff of York- 
shire, 129-30 
Cumberland, 6, 9, 10, 14, 16, 22, 78, 
80n, 124, 195 
castles in, 10 
county court, 78, 195 
lordship, of 195 
sheriff of, 10; 12%, 14, -35, 
195”; and see Odard 
and see Allerdale, Arthuret, 
Brackenhill, Burgh, Calder, 
Carlisle, Carwinley, Drigg, 
Easton, Egremont, Grey- 
stoke, Isell, Kershope, 
Kirkandrews, Kirkoswald, 
Lazonby, Liddel, Nichol 
forest, Torpenhow, Weth- 
eral 
Cumin, John, kg’s justice, abp of 
Dublin, 167, 169 
Cundall, -dale, church, 201 
Cundi. See Condet 
Custance. See Coutances 


D. prior of Newburgh, 249 

Dabridgecourt, family, 487” 

Daiville, -ewilla, -vila, Davidvilla, 
Davil, Dayville, -vyll, Dey- 
ville, de  Aijville, Au-, 
Ayvile, Eyvile;  -vylle, 
family, 222 

Eudo de, 222 

John son of Robert de, 98, 156, 
222-5 

Nicholas de, 222 

Norman de, 123 

Robert de, 5, 66%, 97-8, 149, 
212-4. 222; 224-6, 233-4. 
236-7, 239, 246-8 

——, his wife, see Stuteville 
(Robert IT) 

——, Juliana his second wife, 
see Montfort 

——, Joan his .dau., wife of 
Roger de Caily, 98 

Robert de, [?] elder, 166, 222-3 

Roger de, 222 

Walter’ de, 222 

William de, 222, 243 

Dalby on the Wolds (co. Leicester), 
50 


Dalby, Little (co. Leicester), 25, 80-1 
church, 25 
Danby (wap. Langbargh East), 114 
Danecastre. See Doncaster 
Daniel : 
the pricst, 97 
the steward, 220 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 263 


Daniel—continued 
William son of, monk of St. 
Mary’s, 217 
William, 130 
Darcy, John, ‘le cousyn’, 65 
Darel, William, 209 
Darlington, Professor R. R., 51” 
David, 177 
I, king of Scotland, 65, 195x, 
198, 220 
kg’s minister and lardiner, 213, 
238-9 
———-, Thomas his son, 213, 239 
Davilla, Hugh [2m error], 92n 
Dedham (Essex), Diham, vili, 42, 
49, 50n, 52, 56, 6ln 
manor, v, 50, 56-7, 60-5 
Delaferte, Ralph, 125 
Delisle, Léopold, 43n, 54n 
Denholm-Young, Mr. N., xn 
Depedale, 177 
Derbyshire, v, 50-3, 55”, 56, 597, 64 
sheriff of, 532, 57 
and see Barlborough, Crich, 
Duckmanton, Eckington, 
Ilkeston 
Derwent, river, 86 
Deyville. See Daiville 
Dickinson, Rev. }./C., x 
Diham. See Dedham 
Dissington (Northumberland), Dis- 
citon’; 137 
Dod, William, kg’s minister, 238-9, 
243 
Dodsworth, Roger, ix, x, 8”, 89n, 
244n 
Dolfin, Meldred son of. See Meldred 
Doncaster, Danecastre, -tria, Done-, 
4, 167-9 
Richard the clerk of, 104 
Laurence de, 103 
Richard de, 109 
Donington (co. Lincoln), 767 
Dorset, co., 437 
Dove, Douue, Duva, river, 87-8, 92, 
94-5;. 203), ZI9, 221, 228; 
234 
mag. Geoffrey de, master of 
the nuns, 91, 93-4, 208 
and see Keldholme 
Dover, 52n, 53 
Hugh de, 52-3 
, Maud his wife, see Peverel 
Downe, Lord, MSS. of, 192” 
Dowthwaite (in Farndale), Duuanes- 
thuat, 203 
Hall, 203 
Drew : 
the clerk of Helmsley, 243 
William son of, 167 
Drewton (par. North Cave), 82 
Driffield, -feld, Stephen de, 190 
Drigg (in Copeland, Cumberland), 78 


Dringhoe (par. Skipsea), 31 
Dublin, archbishop of. See Cumin 
Duckmanton (co. Derby), 51, 63 
manor, 50 
Dugdale, Sir William, vii, 2, 62n 
Duket, Ducet, Richard, rector of 
Hessle, 101, 190-1 


Duncan, ~William,~ son. of. See 
William 

Dunkeld, dean of. See Stuteville 
(Robert) 

Dunstaple, Richard de, 79 


Durand : 
Anketin son of, 125 
Nicholas son of, canon of York, 
235 
Durham, adj. Dunelmensis : 
archdeacon of, see William 
bishop of, 74”, 137, 139, 152, 
169 ; and see Puiset, Sainte- 
Barbe, William 
, fee of, 137, 169 
church of, 249 
priory, 1, 2, 7, 84, 88-9, 136, 
141, 249 
, Liber Vitae of, 2 
Durham, co. See Barnard Castle, 
Raby 
Duuill’, Hugh, 92 
Duva. See Dove 


Eadulf, 197 
Eakley (in Stoke Goldington, co. 
Buckingham), 184 
East Riding, Tison’s lands in, 187 
Easton (Cumberland), advowson, 78 
Eathorpe (co. Warwick), 81 
Eboracum. See York 
Eckington (co. Derby), Hegginton, 
Aln, 42, 53, 56, 6ln, 62n, 
63-4 
manor, vi, vill, 50, 53, 58, 60-2, 
64-5 
court at, 57n, 61 
church, 57, 59, 61 
advowson, 64 
rectors of moiety, see Estoute- 
ville (John) 
Ecton. See Etton 
Eden’, Richard de, 189 
Edgar, the cook, 100 
Edinburgh, castle, 4 
Edmund, the hermit, 203 
Edmund of Woodstock, earl of 
Kent, 23x 
Margaret his wife, see Wake 
John his son, earl of Kent, 23, 
8ln 
Joan his dau., wife of Sir 
Thomas de Holand and 
Edward prince of Wales, 
Wid, 20 


264 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Edstone, Great, Edeston, -tun, 92, 
226- 
mill, 94, 227 
Robert the priest of, 227 
Edstone, Little (par. Sinnington), 95 
Edward : 
I, prince and king, 23, 57, 60” 
[II], prince of Wales, 69 
III, king, 34, 197 
——, his son Edward, prince of 
Wales, 23 
, , Joan his wife, see 
Edmund of Woodstock 
Edwards, Professor J. G., 58” 
Egmanton (co. Nottingham), 222 
Egremont (Cumberland), 8 
Eleanor of Provence, queen, 60 
Elias : 
the forester, 91, 105, 203 
William son of, canon of New- 
burgh, 249 
, William his son, 249 
Ellenthorpe (par. Aldborough), 1, 
76, 84 
Ellerton (E.R.), Herletona, 9n 
Elstronwick (par. Humbleton), 79 
Elswald son of Acer, 166 
Eluric, 181 
Ely, bishop of. See Eustace 
Engaine, Ada, wife of Simon de 
Moreville, 8 
Engelby, -lebi. See Ingleby 
Engelram, Engeler, Engelr’, Hen- 
geler, Hingelram, Ingelram, 


-rer : 
the priest of Welburn, 211, 218, 
231, 240 


——, Ralph and Walter his 
brothers, 232 
rural dean of Ryedale and 
Pickering Lythe, 167, 217- 
8, 229 
William son of, 182-3, 208, 239, 
242-3, 246 
and see Ingram 
Engleram, bishop of Glasgow, 199 
Enisand son of Odo. See Fadmoor 
Envaise : 
Jordan le, 213 
Rainald, 243 
Epworth (co. Lincoln), manor, 81 
Erard, mag., canon of York, 201 
Ern’, the chaplain, 132 
Ernald : 
abbot of Rievaulx, 245, 249 
son of Bence, 224-5 
, Peter his son, 224 
——, Thomas his son, 224-5 
, William his son, 225 
Ernanus, 210 
Erneburga. See Stuteville (Robert 
Il) 
Erneis, Robert son of, 218, 230 


Erton , 77 
Es, Eustace de, 53 
Escalers, Richard des, 203 
Escot, Thomas le, 190 
Esk, Esch, river, 195, 198-9 
Espec, Walter, 166, 228 
Essex, 35n, 56 
earls of, see FitzPeter, Mande- 
ville 
sheriff of, 53”, 57, 59n 
and see Dedham 
Estokes, Walter de, 130 
Estouteville (of Valmont), Estote- 
villa, Estutevile, Stotevyle, 
-wil, Stutevilla, -ivilla : 
family, 1, 3, 41-65, 72, 77n 
pedigree, 42 
duchy, vi, 63 
Cardinal, 63 
Adrienne dau. of Jean d’, wife 
of Frangois de Bourbon, 63 
Henry d’, vi, 42, 51-2, 53”, 54-5 
, Maud his’ wife, see 
Hamelin 
——, Isabel his dau., wife of 
Peter de Preus, 42, 55 
John d’ (of Kimberley), 42, 47 
.——, Denise his wife, 42, 47 
John son of Henry d’ (of 
Valmont), vi, 41-2, 47, 55- 
60, 62, 64, 77n 
——, Agnes his wife, 42, 55, 57 
, Alice his dau., 42, 57 
John son of Robert d’, 42, 61-5 
, Lora his wife, 42, 64 
——, his armorial seal, 63n, 
64n 
mag. John d’, rector of moiety 
of Eckington, canon of 
Rouen, 42, 57, 59 
John d’, younger, rector of 
moiety of Eckington, 417 


Louis d’, 63 

Nicholas d’, In, 3, 41-5, 47-8, 
36, 72 

——, Juliana his wife, see 
Golescalc 


, Memorial tomb of, 45n 

Nicholas I d’ (of Kimberley), 
42, 44-6, 48, 49n, 54 

——, Ediva his wife, see 


Gournay 
Nicholas II d’ (of Kimberley), 
42, 45-7, 48n 


——, Alice his wife, 42, 47 
Sir Nicholas III d’ (of Kim- 


berley), 47 
Nicholas son of Stutus d’, 42, 
58, 64n 


Sir Ralph '‘d’, 55 

Ralph d’ [?], 57, 59” 

Richard son of Nicholas d’, 42, 
44-5, 47n, 48, 49n 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 269 


Estouteville—continued 
Robert I[ son of Nicholas d’, 7, 
lin, 25, 29n, 42-3, 44-5, 
48-52, 54 
——, Leonia his wite, see 
Salisbury 
——, his dau., wife of Robert 
de Brettevill, 42, 54 
Robert: 1 son of John <d-, vi, 
vill, 37, 42-3, 47, 55, 57-63 
——, Joan his wife, see Talbot 
——, Eleanor his wife, see 
Genoure 
—-—, his armorial seal, 59n 
Robert III d’, 42, 62-3 
, Alice his wife, see Bric- 
quebec 
Robert IV d’, 42, 62-3 
Robert heir of William d’, 58 
Robert son of Henry d’, 42, 55 
Robert son of John d’, 42, 64-5 
Stutus, Estoldus, son of John d’, 


42, 57-8, 64n 

Stutus son of Nicholas d’, 42, 
58-9 

Thomas [?] son of Nicholas d’, 
25, 42, 45n 


William d’, 59n 

William son of John d’, 42, 
57-8, 59n, 60, 62x 

William son of Nicholas d’ 
(of Stratfield), 35”, 42-5, 
47-8, 49n, 54 

——, Alice Eis dau., wife’ of 
Elias de Boeles and Robert 
de Say, 42, 47-8 

William son of Robert d’, 42, 
52,54 

and see Stuteville 

Estrafeld, Estred-. See Stratfield 


Etoutteville-sur-Mer (Normandy, 
dept. Seine-Inf., alr. 
Y¥vetot,-cant.. Yerville), v, 
vii, 1, 54 

castle, ln 

Etton:.. Atton, Beton) Eton; 78, 32, 

191-3 


manors, 74, 191 

advowson, 78 

rector, see Nicholas 

William the clerk of, 193 

families, 191, 195 

fee, 191-5 

Geoffrey de, son of Odo Maunsel, 
192 

Geoffrey son of Thomas de, 124, 
151-2, 192, 194 

Henry de, 192 

Henry de, younger, 78, 191-2 

Hugelin de, 191 

———, Aubreye his wife, sce 
Octon 

Odard de, 192, 194, 195” 


Etton—continued 

Robert de, 192-3 

Stanard de, 193 

Thomas son of Geoffrey de, 

192-4 
——, Maud his dau., wife of 
Robert de Cowlam, 193-4 

Thomas son of Thomas de, 191-4 
, Maud his wife, see Butter- 
wick 

William de, 106, 143, 151-2, 169 

William son of Thomas de, 194 
Bog 

count of, see Henry 

William d’, precentor of York, 
96, 216 
, his vicar, see Hamo 
Euewicscira. See Yorkshire 
Eugenius III, pope, 85 
Eure, Robert de, 31 
, Isabel his wife, see Merlay 


Eustace : 
bishop of Ely, 111 
nephew of prior of Guisborough, 
189 
son of John, 100, 212 
Evenewit. See Ravenswyke 
Everard. See Roger 
Everingham, family, 170-1 
Sir Adam de, 171 
Robert de, 170, 171” 
, Hawise his wife, 171 
Robert son of Adam de, 171 
Robert son of Robert de, 173 
, Isabel his wife, 173 
Thomas de, 171n, 173n 
, Ragenilda his wife, 171” 
Exeter, adj. Exonmiensis, bishop ‘of, 
218 
Eyton, Rev. R. W., 36x 
Eyvile, -vylle. See Daiville 


Badmoor (par. Kirkby Moorside), 
Fademor, Fadde-, 14m, 19, 
80, 82, 104, 160, 202-3, 211- 
2, 231 

Enisand, Nisant de, son of Odo, 

104, 105” 

Faganulf, Walter (son of), 216 

Falaise (Normandy, dept. Calvados), 
51 

Fantosme, Jordan, 3x 

Farndale, Faren-, Farne-, 19, 87-8, 
92, 93n, 94, 203 


valley, 203 
Farndale East (par. Kirkby Moor- 
side), 203 
Farne Island (Northumberland), 


brethren on, 7 

Farrer, William, viii, x, 2”, 3, 9n, 
l5n, 25n, 28n, 36n, 62n, 
66-7, 68n, 70, 72, 74n, 86, 
91n, 92n, 93n, 100, 107n, 


266 SIUTEVILLE FEE 


Farrer—continued 
108, 112. 136,140,152, 
153”, 154n, 167n, 171n, 
172, 174n, 178, 182, 192n, 
202, 205;: 206: 212,.-217, 
221m, 227, 237, 243 
Fauconberg, Thomas, Lord, 202 
Fécamp (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Inf.), 44-5 
forest, 54 
abbey, 71 
Felixkirk, Felice-, Sanctus Felix, 
74n, 129, 156 
parish, 160n, 222 
advowson, 96-7, 153n 
church, 156 
Felley priory (co. Nottingham), 48, 
oi 


Felton (Northumberland), 60 
forest, 61 
Fenwick (par. Campsall), 37 
Ferrers, honour of, 25x 
Hugh de, 36 
, Margery his wife, see Say 
Ferriby, North, 99, 174, 187n 
manor, 186 
priory, 99, 187 
, prior, 188 
, chartulary, x 
master of the hospital, 188 
Ferriby, South (co. Lincoln), Feribia, 
Feriby juxta Hunibre, 81, 
83, 99, 124-5, 187-8, 190 
manor, 187 
church, 187 
Ferted, Robert de la, 198 
Fierce, La, Ralph de, 125 
Finemund, Warin, 198 
FitzPeter, Geoffrey, earl of Essex, 
113-5 
Flammaville, Flama-, Flame-, 
Flammevile, Flamvilla : 
Alan. de;-2383, 235 
Roger de, 212-4, 229-30, 233-4, 


240, 244 
»  fuetta: his. ‘wite, see 
Arches 
Flawith (par. Alne), Flathewath, 79, 
184 
fee, 184 


Luke de, 79, 184 
, Agnes his wife, 184 
Llaxepodala, -poldala, 223-4 
Flaxton (par. Bossall), 74, 79 
Foliot, -yet, family, 34 
Henry, 169 
Jordan, 37, 79; 142, 185 
Richard, 37 
Forcett, -sette, Martin de, 227 
Fordon (par. Hunmanby), 175, 177 
Fossard, Fossart : 
fee (i ClIeT)S “P4n,. 2iZ, 140, 
186, 191, 192n, 205 


Fossard—continued 
fee (of Stuteville), 152-60 
family, 90, 112, 129, 152-3 
Adam, 96-7, 103, 129,- 152-6, 
180-3, 207-8, 230 
——, Hawise his wife, see 
Stuteville (Robert IIL) 
Agnes, wife of Alexander 
Paynel, 112 
Geoffrey, 96, 135, 152-4, 192n, 
208, 230 
, Maud his wife, 152, 154 
——, Juliana his dau., wife of 
Arnold de Upsall, 154-5, 
181 
Geoffrey, younger, 104, 106, 
123; 152-3, 169; 182-3, 206, 
209, 223-4 
Geoffrey, kg’s minister, 239 
Henry, 153, 158-9 
Nigel, 152, 186, 191” 
Robert, 159 
Robert (of South Otterington), 


153 
Robert son of Adam, 129, 153, 
156-9, 208-9 


, Joan his wife, 153 
Robert son of Nigel, 112, 152, 
205 
Thomas son of Adam, 152-3, 
159-60 
William FF 152,.192n 
William II, 111-2, 186 
Fossavddyk, 155 
Foster, Canon C. W., 85, 247 
Fountains abbey, de Fontibus, 4, 12, 
19;-33,, 36, 108-9, 122, 136, 
143-6, 163, 175, 180, 250 
abbot of, 115”, 142, 145; and see 
John 
chapter-house, 12 
chartulary, 108, 144 
grange, see Kirby Wiske 
Foxeholes, William de, 129 
Fragate, 91, 232 
France, 63 
king of, vi, 58, 61, 64; and see 
Philip Augustus 
war and peace with, 55, 58, 60 
Franceis, Bernard, 105 
Francigena, William, 175 
——, Maud his wife, see Ganton 
Freman, William, 151 
Freneio, William de, 131 
Frescheville, family, 51x 
‘Fridebi’ (par. Felixkirk), manors, 74 
Frieston priory (co. Lincoln), 73 
Fulcher, Henry son of, 113 
Fulk : 
Gilbert son of, canon of York, 
233, 200 
Thomas son of, 172 . 
William son of, 125, 172 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 267 


Furnes’, William bro. of Richer de, 
104 
Furun, Richard, 109 


G. prior of the order of Sempringham, 
108 
Gainsborough (co. Lincoln), 627 
manor, 37, 62n 
Galbraith, Professor V. H., 240 
Galloway, Galwey : 
ditch of “the men: of,’ (Gal- 
walenses), 197 
Alan of, 21 
——, Dervorguilla his dau., 
wife of John de Baliol, 21, 


60n 

Roland (son of Uctred) of, 21, 
117-9 

— —, Helen his wife, see More- 
ville 


——, Dervorguilla [?] his dau., 
wife of Nicholas de Stute- 
ville [II], 20-1, 176 
Galmeton. See Ganton 
Gant, -Darony, tee, 210, 112,. 173; 
175n, 188 
Gilbert I de, 187 
, Emma. his daw., wife of 
Alan de Percy, 175 
Gilbert IE de, earl of Lincoln, 
110 
Gilbert III, son of Robert de, 
£110 
Gilbert LV de, 188x 
Gilbert V de, 188 
Gilbert de (Gaunte), 244 
Maurice de, 15” 
Robert-de, 15; 110; 112, 243 
, Gunnora his wife, see 
Aubigny 
Robert de, dean of York, 173, 
215, 233-6 
Walter de, 201 
,eAdice his “dan,, wite of 
Ilbert de Lascy and Roger 
de Mowbray, 201, 204-5, 
231, 244, 246 
Ganton, Galmeton, 175-6 
parish, 173 
Henry de, 175-7 
, Maud his dau.,.wife of 
Richard de _ SBossall and 
William Francigena, 175-7 
Richard de, 175-7 
Gardiner, Robert son of Robert le, 
229 
Garstang (co. Lancaster), 9x 
Gascons, ordinance for the, 61 
Gascony, 57 
Gate Helmsley, 86 
Geldeford. See Guildford 
Genoure, -evere, -ouere, Gebunun, 
Eleanor de, wife of Alex- 


Genoure—continued 
ander de Baliol and Robert 
d’Estouteville, v, vi, 42, 
58, 60-3 
Geoffrey, Goisfrid, Gos-, 27, 178 
abbot of Rievaulx, 209 
of St. Mary’s York, 220-1 
archbishop of York, 10,51 
——., his officials, 2497 
brother of Odo, 166 
dom., 99 
earl of Essex, see Mandeville 
mag., see Dove 
prior of St. Mary’s York, 217 
[V, vicomte de Chateau-Dun, 
42, 57-9 
——, his family, 57 
——, Agnes and Isabel his 
sisters, 57 
Gerard, Girard, 146, 152 
brother and cellarer of St. 
Peter’s hospital, 150, 151x 
German, precentor of St. Mary’s 
York. 217 
Germany, 58 
Gernegan, 146 
Gernetteby. See Carnaby 
Gernun, Richard, 8 
, Joan his wife, see More- 
ville 


Gerold : 
abbot at Hood, 149, 200, 204-6, 
214 
(son of Serlo), canon of York, 
98, 233), 235 
‘miles Christi’, 70-1 
Gersope. See Kershope 
Gervase, 227-9 
Benedict son of, see Benedict 
Maud dau. of, wife of Alan de 
Ryedale, 229, 241 
son of Romund, 216 
Giffart, William, 125 
Gigator, Bartholomew, 224-6 
Gilbert, 65”, 178” 
abbot of Thorney, 132 
canon of Bridlington, 241 
son of Fulk, canon of York, 233, 
235 
son of Peter, 203 
son of Roger son of Reinfred, 8 
Helewise his wife, see 
Lancaster 
Stephen son of, 124 
Gildehusedale, 230 
Gillamoor (par. Kirkby Moorside), 


Gillemor, Gilingamor, 
-emora, -mor, 75, 80, 82, 
94, 102n 


mill, 87-8, 123 

chapel and chaplain, 102-3, 249 
Godfrey son of Hyrnan de, 92 
Nicholas de, the forester, 227 


268 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Gilling in Ryedale, Gillinge, 68, 102n, 
147, 149-50, 191-2, 195 
manor, 75 
wandale sub clivo at, 150 
church, 68 
Castle, 191 
Girard. See Gerard 
Giseburg, -burne. See Guisborough 
Giuo, 92 
Robert son of, 103 
Glanville, Glam-, Glanvila : 
Gerard de, 213 
Ranulf de, kg’s justice, sheriff 
of Yorkshire, th, '2; 111-2, 
167, 213-4, 216 
———, Amabel his dau., wife of 
Ralph de Arderne, 12n 
———, Helewise his dau., wife of 
Robert son of Ralph, 12 
———, Berta his niece, wife of 
William de Stuteville, 11, 
122 2 
——, his steward, see Rainer 
Glapham. See Clapham 
Glasgow, adj. Glascuensis : 
bishop of, see Engelram 
archdeacon of, see Robert 
Glentham (co. Lincoln), 78” 
Gloucester, earl of. See Audley 
Gloucestershire, 43 
and see Hailes 
Godard, hermit of St. Leonard, 
Stratfield, 47-8 
Godirey : 


the clerk of kg’s scriptorium, 169 | 


sacristan of St. Mary’s York, 217 
serjeant of Robert de Stuteville 
(LED), $7-8; 92 
Godric, conversus, 149 
Godwin, priest of St. Michael’s 
hospital, Whitby, 210 
Goisfrid. See Geoffrey 
Golescalc, Juliana dau. of, wife of 
Jordan d’Auffay and Nich- 
olas d’Estouteville, 42, 44-5 
Golle, Richard, 103 
Golstaindale wood (in Kildale), 38 
Gonneville - les - Hameaux (Nor- 
mandy, dept. Seine-Inf., 
cant. Tdtes), Gounovilla, 
70n, 71 
Gonneville-sur-Honfleur (Normandy, 
dept. Calvados), 71n 
Gormire (par. Felixkirk), fishery, 153 
Gosfrid. See Geoffrey 
Gospatric, 118 
son of Waltheof, 220; and see 
Brawby 
=, ‘Walter his: son, -220 
——, Asketil, Ansketil, his son, 
220; and see Habton 
——, ——, Patrick his son, 
see Ridale 


Gournay, family, vi, 46n 
Gerard de, 200 
, Edith his wife, sze 
Warenne 
——, Gundreda his dau., wife 
of Nigel d’Aubigny and 
mother of Roger de Mow- 
bray, 200, 204-6, 209-10, 
213, 223, 228, 230-2, 234-6, 
238, 246 
Hugh IV de, 42 
, Ediva his dau., wife of 
Nicholas d’Estouteville (of 
IXimberley), 42, 45-6 
——, Gunnora his dau. [im 
evvor|, 46n 
Hugh V de, 45-6 
Gouzeville (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Int., attr,  Y¥vetot;. cant 
Doudeville), mill, 44 
Gower, le, Guer, Robert, 40” 
Graaland, Graelenc, -lengus. See Tany 
Graham, T. Hi: B.,. 195% 
Gransmoor (par. Burton Agnes), 
Craucemore, 30-2 


Gray : 
Robert, 185 
Walter, -abp: of “York, 36, 68, 
108, 128-9, 163-4, 185 
William de, 164” 
and see Grey 
Gregory : 
mag., canon of York, 201 
prior of Bridlington, 240-2 
Grentemaisnil, Robert son of Hugh 
de, 2 
——, Emma his wife, see 
Stuteville (Robert I) 
Grenville, Simon de, 42, 47 
, Alice his wife, 42, 47 
Gresham (Norfolk), 55, 61, 63 
Gresopa. See Kershope 
Gressenhall (Norfolk), vii, viii, 7, 
27, 34, 36-7, 62n, 142 
manor, honour, 35-7 
market and fair, 35 
Isabel de, see Wimar 
Grey (of Codnor), Richard de, 59 
Grey, Gray (of Rotherfield) : 
John de, 185” 
Robert de, 185 
Robert de, younger, 79, 185 
Walter de, 185 i 
Greystoke (Cumberland), 8, 9 
family, 9n 
sir John-de,.ord, 31,33 
William de, 31 
——, Mary his wife, see Merlay 
Griffith, Rees ap, 32 
, Joan his wife, see Somerville 
Grimbald, Robert, 49, 52 
——, Maud his wife, — see 
Houghton 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 269 


Grimscote (co. Northampton), 77, 
79, 81 
Grimston (par. 
149-50 . 
Walter son of Asketil de, 243 
Grossus : 
John, 244 
Robert son of William, 216 
Gubion, family, 31” 
Hugh, 31 
Richard, 31x 
Guer. See Gower 
Guildford (Surrey), Geldeford, 111, 
114-5 
Guisborough priory, Giseburg, 
-burne, Gyseburnia, 10n, 
37-8, 67, 100-1, 170-2, 187, 
189-91, 248-9 
prior of, 170 
nephew of, see Eustace 
, and see Laurence, Kalph, 
Roald 
Gulbert. See Auffay 
Gunby, Gunne-, Sir Thomas de, 139 
Gunby St. Nicholas (co. Lincoln), 42, 
50, 52, 54, 56, 64 
church, 49 
Guthalgillesiche, 167 
Guum : 
Iterus son of, 105 
Robert son of, 105, 169 


Gilling), Grimes-, 


, 


Habton, family, 220 
Asceria wife of Ansketil de, 
220; and see Gospatric 
Nicholas de, 220 
Haget, Agat, Bertram, 204 
Haggit Hill (in Boltby), 166 
Haichouedsic, 166 
Haicwath. See Aicwath 
Hailes abbey (co. Gloucester), 58” 
Haisthorpe (par. Burton Agnes), 
Hasthorp, 31, 33 
Alexander de, 33 
Haithwait, stream, 208 
Haldin, William son of, 189 
Hale,’ ‘(Great (co. Lmcoln), church, 
110 
Halgtona [? Houghton], Norman 
the priest of, 243 
Hall, Mr, 2. W.,. F920 
Hallewath, -wad, -wat, 211, 212n, 
232n 
Halnaby, Halnathbi, Bernard de, 150 
_Halsart, Gilbert, 2n 
Halton Holegate (co. Lincoln), 196 
Halweley. See Allerwash 
Hamby, -bi, William de, 170-2 
Hambye (Normandy, dept. Manche), 
63 


Hamelin, earl de Warenne, 42, 54 
=== Isabel. “his- “wites “sec 
Warenne 


Hamelin—continued 
——, Maud his dau., wife of 
Henry count of Eu and 
Henry d’Estouteville, vi, 
42, 55, 61n 
Hamo : 
abbot of Byland, 109 
precentor and treasurer of York, 
201, 216 
vicar of precentor of York, 216 
Hampshire, v, 3, 4, 43, 56, 72 
sheriff of, 43 
and see Alton, Church Oakley, 
Stratfield Saye, -Warn- 
borough, Winchester 
Hampsthwaite, Hamesthuait, -wait : 
John the clerk of, 169 
Jobhu-de, 109, 125 
Hampton-inArden (co. Warwick), 
Hamton in Arden’, Ardern’, 
2, 115, 117-9 
Hancow House (in Hartoft, par. 
Middleton), Anchou, ‘An- 
ehom. 126 
Hansard, William, 208 
Harby (co.. Leicester), 25 
Harcourt, Rollo de, 52 
, Roaise his wite, see 
Peverel 
——, Aubreye his dau., wife of 
William Trussebut, 52-3 
Harewood, 176 
Harlington, 9n 
Harlsey, East, chapel, 249 
Harome (par. Helmsley), Harum, 
Heir-, Her-, Hur-, 75 
Drew de, 150-1, 166, 209, 226, 
229, 239 
Hubert de, 243 
Walhamdeé, 150, 227, 230, 241-3 
Harpham (par. Burton Agnes), 30-2 
mill, 30 
Godfrey de, 133 
John de, 133-4 
Hartforth, Herford, John de, 208 
Harthill wapentake, 9, 82 
Harton (par. Bossall), 1, 75, 84, 86 
manor, 86 
Harundel. See Arundel 
Hasala, -el, -la. See Hessle 
Haschwi, Robert son of, 220 
Hasthorp. See Haisthorpe 
Hastings, lady of. See Henry count 
of Eu 
Hauerberga, 92 
Hawedane, Bernard de, 125 
Hawic, Simon de, 125 
Hawnby, 166 
Haxingholme. See Axholme 
Hay, family, 184” 
William, 184 
Hayrun. See Heirun 
Healaugh (Swaledale), Helagh’, 110-2 


270 STUTEVICLE FEE 


Healaugh Park priory, 40n, 68 

Heckington (co. Lincoln), Heking-, 
ehurch, 110 

Hedon, -dun, Walter de, 40 

Hegginton. See Eckington 

Heirum. See Harome 

Heirun, Hayrun, Jordan, 198 

Jordan, younger, 159 

Helmsley, -lac, -le, Helmeslai, 229, 

234 


ehurch; 247 

Robert the chaplain of, 217, 243 

Drew the clerk of, 243 

John the reeve of, 243 

Robert de, rector of, and rural 

dean of Ryedale, 91 

mag. William de, 91 

and see Gate Helmsley 
Helperthorpe : 

Richard de, 194 

Robert de, 194 
Helsi, 154 
Hemingby (co. Lincoln), 78”, 79n 
Hemington (co. Northampton), 25 
Hemlington (par. Stainton), 8, 37, 


73. 106; 127 
manor, 38-9, 81 
lady of, 39 


Hengeler. See Engelram 
Henley in Arden (co. Warwick), 
mill, 677 
Henry : 
I, king; 1, 2, 5, 44, 84-5, 93, 
116, 187, 222 
——, Adeliza his wife, 44 
——, Maud his wife, 85 
Il, duke of Normandy and king, 
3, 4, 6-9, .44, 16, 26, 29; 
43-5, 46n, 47, 48n, 54, 76, 
84-5, 89, 93, 95, 100, 
114, 120, 131-2, 135, 140, 
146, 149, 166-7, 172, 189, 
192, 196-200, 212, 219n, 
223n, 234, 236-8 
, court of, 50 
——., Spanish award of, 6 
———, Henry his son, 200 
IIL, king, 64 
archbishop of York, see Murdac 
the clerk, 169 
count of Ka; 42, 55 
, Maud his wife, see Hamelin 
———., Alice his dau., countess of 
Eu, lady of Hastings and of 
honour of Tickhill, 55 
earl [of Warwick], 85 
son of Fulcher, 113 
son of Ralph, 177 
Herbert; 
butler of Roger de Mowbray, 
2002 
son of Adelard, 187 
son of Richard, 243 


Herbert—continued 
Matthew son of, 126 
William son of, 216 

Herefordshire. See 

Castle 

Heremite, Robert, 156 

Herford. See Hartforth 

Heriz, William de, 198 

Herletona. See Ellerton 

Herum. See Harome 

Hesketh (par. Felixkirk), Hestel- 

scait, Hestescaith, -chait, 
-keith, 99, 160, 165-7 

grange, 166 

Heslerton, 29” 
East, 74, 178 
West, 28 
Hessle, Hasala, -el, -la, Hese, Hesel, 

-ell’, -la, Hezell, Hisale, 8x, 
19, 66, 78, 82-3, 99, 101, 
130-1, 186-91 

parish, 130, 191 

church, 100-1, 187, 189-90 

rectors of, see Duket, John 

brewers and bakers of, their 
suit of court, 130 

family, 99, 125, 187,191 

fee, 186-91 

Alan son of Erneis de, 190 

Geoffrey son of Saxelin or 

Sixelm’ de, 187n, 190-1 

Hugh son of Erneis de, 190 

Ivo de, 187n; and see Karkeni 

John de, x, 99-101, 187-90 

, Roese his dau., wife of 

Henry de Tranby and 

William de Sutton, 188, 191 
John de, rector of Kirk Ella, 

130-1 
Nicholas de, 190” 
Robert de, 99, 

187-90 
— —, Joan his wife, 188 
——-, Robert Bastard his bro., 

190 
Saxelin de, 187” 

Hestheld, 158 

Heuethcroft, 245 

Hexham (Northumberland) : 
prior of, 220 
John of, 1367 

Hilton, Adam de, 129, 159 

Hinderwell, Hilder-, rector of. See 


Richard’s 


124-5, 158, 


Osbert 
Hingelram. See Engelram 
Hirst, 138 


Hisale. See Hessle, Isell 

Hiserbec. See Islebeck 

Hoby (co. Leicester), Houby, 80-1 
Gilbert de, 80 

Hoctona. See Houghton 

Hodge Beck, 212, 232, 234 

Hogthuet, -tweit, 88 


INDEX OF PERSONS: AND PLACES 271 


Holand : 
Sir Thomas de, 23 
—~——, Joan his wife, see Edmund 
of Woodstock 
Thomas de, earl of Kent, lord 
Wake, 23 
, Alice his wife, 148 
Holbek, 155 
Holderness, -e, 89 
honour of, 28, 30x, 170n 
Holebec, 91, 232 
Holflet Wria, 99 
Holm, 91, 232 
Holme, North (in Welburn), 234 
Holthorp. See Howthorpe 
Holtzmann, Dr., 219 
Holwell (co. Leicester), Holewell, 25, 
ae 
Hommet, Le, family and fee, 116” 
Hood (par. Kilburn), Hod, -e, Hot, 
103, 152-3, 159, 202, 204-11, 
246, 248 
church, 201, 204-5, 207-8 
abbey at, afterwards Byland, 
205 
——, abbots at, see Gerold, 
Roger 
Augustinian canons at, and cell 
of Newburgh, 86, 205-7, 
209, 248 
» prior of, see Augustine 
grange, 204 
hermit of, see Aunay 
Hooton Pagnell, 112, 181, 183, 249- 
50 
Hospitallers,, xv, 153, 156, 160n; 
and see Mount St. John 
Hotham, 29n, 30, 82 
Hotona. See Hutton 
Houby. See Hoby, Huby 
Houelund, 90, 211 
Houghton. See Halgtona 
Houghton, Little (co. Northampton), 
Hoctona, 49” 
Payn de, 49 
, Adeliz his wife, see Rames 
——, Maud his dau., wife of 
Robert Grimbald, 49 
William de, 49 
Hoveton (par. Kirkdale), -tuna, 
Houatuna,..ix;. 75; 90-1, 
209-19, 232-40, 244-5 
Bernulf de, 211 
Lambert de, 217 
, Sunnive his wife, 217 
——, Sigerith and Orenge his 
davis, 207 
Peter de, 91, 211, 216-7, 242 
Robert de, 211 
William de, 211 
Hovingham, Houegam, -incham, 
-ingam, -ingaham, -ingeham, 
L, 84, bts, 147-8; 200. 212 


Hovingham-—continued 
manor, 75, 80, 85, 183 
church, 85, 201-2, 249 
advowson, 86 
John the clerk of, 230, 243 
John de, 208 
Ralph de, 167 
Unspac de, 231 
Howden, Hou-, rector of. See Roger 


Howell (co. Lincoln); THouwwelle, 
rector of. See .Stuteville 
(John 


Howkeld Head (nr. Kirkby Moor- 
side), Houekelde, 212 
Howlands (nr. Kirkby Moorside), 
2A 
Howthorpe, Holthorp, Hugh de, 
239, 250 
Hubert : 
archbishop, see Walter 
Ralph son of, v, 50-1 
son of Ralph, 50-2, 56 
, his barony, 50-1, 56, 60 
Huby, Houby, Roger de, 147 
——, Emma his wife, 147” 
Hugh, 191n 
abbot of Revesby, 242 
bishop of Durham, see Puiset 
the chaplain, 103, 108 
, of Simon dean of York, 
201 
clerk of the hospital, 154 
the doctor, 216 
abp’s minister, 216 
brother of William archdeacon 
of Durham, 208 
son of Baldric, sheriff of York- 
shire) Vv, - vill, xi: 1-3, 25, 
41, 56, 65, 70-5, 76, 79n, 
82n, 85, 88, 98, 108, 116, 
118, 135-7, 140, 146, 152, 
160, 170, 171n,- 174, 178, 
ist, 183, 185, 191, 200, 
206, 219 
——, dau. of, wife of Guy de 
Craon,. 3, 73 
—-——, dau. of, wife of Walter, 
3n, 73 
son of William, 228 
Robert son of, 105 
William son of, 101, 189 
Hulf. See Ulf 
Hull, Hul, river, 89, 90, 102 
, hermitage on, 102 
Hull Bank, 40,78 
Humber, -bre, -bria, river, 99, 187, 
189-90 
Humphrey, the chaplain, 198 
Hunmanby, 110 
Hunsley (par. Rowley), 1, 82, 84, 141 
manor, 74 
Huntingdon, honour of, 49n 
Huntingdonshire. See St. Neots 


iW Ps STUTEVILLE FEE 


Huntingfield, William de, 34-5 
——, Isabel his wife, see Wimar 
Huntington, 186 
Hurel, Roger, abp’s clerk, canon of 
Ripon, 193, 214 
Hurum. See Harome 
Hutred. See Uctred 
Hutton, Hotona, -una : 
Humphrey de, 189 
Peter de, 246 
Richard de, 193 
William son of Peter de, 227 
Hutton Cranswick, Hoton, 19,74, 
191-2, 194 
Hutton le Hole, Hoton’ in Ridale, 
Underheth’, Hotun, 19, 75, 
87-8, 938n, 105, 219-22 
Huuerin, Walter, 230 


Ilkeston (co. Derby), church, 249 
Ingelram, -rer. See Engelram 
Ingleby, Engelby, family, 95 
William son of Columba. de, 95 
Ingleby Arncliffe, 95” 
Ingleby Greenhow, Engelby, 
Englebi juxta Grenhou, 6, 
94-5, 146, 175 
Ingram, Engelram, family, 29n 
William, 28, 29n, 180 
Insula, de, See Lisle 
Tokenewath, 158 
Ireby, William de, 14 
Ireland, scutage of, 6 
and see Dublin, Kildare, Wex- 
ford 
Irton (par. Seamer), 77” 
Isabella, queen (of Edward II), 64 
Isell (Cumberland), Hisale, manor, 8 
Islebeck (wap. Birdforth), Hiserbec, 
Ysebec, 154n 
Ralph de, 154 
Iterus son of Guum, 105 
Iuro (or Uiro), Odo son of, 166 


James, the clerk, 232 

Jarpenville, Peter de, 151 
Jatstainewad, Jaistem-, 232n, 233 
Jedburgh (co. Roxburgh), Jeddew- 
rde, Jegdewrth, abbey, 196, 
198-9 

, abbot of, 15; and see Ralph 


Jeremy : 
archdeacon of Cleveland, 91 
abp’s clerk, 193 
Jerusalem : 
pilgrimage to, 38” 
Temple of the Lord at, 99 
, prior of, see Petribricius 
lepers at, 6 
Jocelin, bishop of Salisbury, 47 
John : 
count of Mortain and king, 9-11, 
13, 15, 45-6, 51, 93-5, 104, 


John—continued 
109-47; 12023, ° 126, 157, 
197,. 199 
——, first coronation of, 115 
——, agreement in court of, 
157-8 
abbot of Fountains, 108 
archdeacon in ch. of York, see 
John son of Letold 
of Worcester, 46 
bishop of Norwich, 46 
the clerk of Hampsthwaite, 169 
of Hovingham, 230, 243 
of Malton, 128 
— of Mappleton, 30x 
earl of Kent, see Edmund of 
Woodstock 
the reeve of Helmsley, 243 
scriptor, 203 
treasurer of York, 233, 235 
the usher, 123 
nephew of Ivo de _ Karkeni, 
rector of Hessle, 189 
son of Letold, canon of York, 
archdeacon of Cleveland 
and Nottingham, 96, 214-5, 
217-8, 233 
- son of Lucas, kg’s justice, 167, 
169 
son of Turgisilus, 216 
Eustace son of, 100m, 212 
Philip son of, 158 
Joie, Robert, 241 
Jonebi, William de, 127 
Joppa, 34 
Jorz, Geoffrey de, 242 
Jukeleholm, 90 


Kaldekelde, -chelde, 145, 156 
Kaldekeldesic, 156 
Kaluecroft. See Caluecroft 
Kalueton. See Cawton 
Kaptoft. See Captoft 
Karkeni, Charcheni, Ivo de, 101 
187, 189-90 
——, Maud his wife, 189 
——., John his son, see Hessle 
, John his nephew, see John 
Karleolum. See Carlisle 
Karletun. See Carlton 
Karrow, Walter de, 162, 164 
, his wife, see Boltby 
Karwindelaue. See Carwindlaw 
Kauthorn. See Cawthorn 
Keldholme, Kelde-, 92, 94 
mill, 92, 94 
priory, Huns de: Duva,. x1, 6, 7, 
82, 92-5, 104, 105”, 123-4, 
160, 202-3, 227 
——, prioress of, 92n, 93, 95, 
104; and see Basilia, Sibyl 
——, master of the nuns, see 
Dove 


? 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES TS 


Kelk (par. Foston), 32, 133 
mills, 133 
Lkattle, 29° 1338 
, manor, 133 
IKkendal (Westmorland), lords of, 8 
Kkennythorpe (par. Langton), 74, 178 
Kent, 11x 
earls of, 81, ‘137; and see 
Edmund of Woodstock, 
Holand 
and see. Canterbury, 
Leybourne 
ikente, Johnidé, 79 
Kepwick (par. Over- Silton), 39, 
36n, 142 
Keroyhiav . . .. 149 
Kereby. See Cold Kirby, Kirby 
Kerry (co. Montgomery), . Kery, 
scutage of, 20 
Kershope (nr. Liddel, Cumberland), 
Cresop, -e, Gershope, Gre- 
sopa, 14, 68, 195, 197-8 
river, 15 
Ketel, the priest, 235 
Ketelebi, Ketlebi. See Abkettleby 
Kettleby Thorpe (co. Lincoln), Thorp 
um Lindsey,.14, 65; 77, 79, 
135-7, 140, 178, 188” 
manor, 73 
“Kilburn, Killeburn, -brun, -brunna, 
97-8, 157, 222-4, 245-6 
parish, 104, 222 
manor, 75, 83, 98, 200, 222-3, 
246 
William de, 228 
Kildale, -dall, 129, 192n 
manor, 192n 
Kildare. See Vescy 
Kilham, Killum, manor, 223 
Stephen de, 239 
Killingholme, Walter de, 136 
Killingwith, Killyng-, wood, 154-5 
Kilnwick, Kilingwich, Thomas de, 
242 
Kilnwick Percy, 192 
manor, 192n 
Kilvington, Kilvintune : 
Gamaliel de, 182-3 
Geoffrey son of Arnold de, 154 
Stephen de, 154, 182-3 
Kilvington (co. Nottingham), 72 
Kalvington, Kilvin-, South, 79, 106, 
174, 180-2 
church, 180 
Kimberley (Norfolk), vi, 42, 45-7, 
48n 
manor, 45, 47 
church, advowson, rector, vicar- 
age, 45-7 
Kirby, Kereby : 
Robert de, 157 
Terri de, 97 
Kirby, Cold. See Cold Kirby 


Dower, 


Kirby Hill, Kirchebi by Borough- 
bridge, church, 201 

Kirby Knowle, Kyrkeby Knoll’, 
75n, 155, 181 

Kirby Misperton, Kirchebi Misper- 
tun, Chirchaby Mispeton, 
75, 219-20 

Kirby Wiske, Kyrkby Wisk, 144-5 

grange of Fountains, 143-4 
Andrew de, 145 

, juliana bhis- wile, see 

Newsham 

Kirk Ella, Auuele, rector of. See 
Hessle 

Kkirkandrews-on-Esk (Cumberland), 
Kirchandr’, church, 196, 
198-9 

Kirkby Hall (Little Ouseburn), 108 

Kirkby in Ashfield (co. Nottingham), 
48n, 51, 56, 61ln, 64 

manor, 50, 57, 59-62, 64-5 
market and fair, 59 
church, 53, 56 

advowson, 64 

Kirkby Malzeard, Malessart, 115, 
117-8 

castle, 119” 

Kirkby Moorside, Chirchebi, Kirche-, 
Kirka-, Kirke-, Kyrke-, (in) 
Moresyd, Moreshefd, 
-heued, in Ridal’, v, x, 1, 
6,.17, 19, 22, 80, 82-4, 90, 
92, 94-5, 116-8, 142, 148, 
211-2, 234 . 

manor, 5, 15n, 21-2, 75, 78-86, 
88, 91, 93, 98, 103, 117, 
128, 148, 200, 219 

mill, 75”, 92 

park, 89 

serjeant of, see Martin 

church, 82, 85, 128, 201-2 

advowson, 86 

Wilham the wlerk of, 167, 211, 
217, 240 

Kirkby Ouseburn, Kyrkeby Use- 
brun’, -burn, 9m”, 107-9, 
122-3 

church, 108 

advowson, 107-9 

Alan de, 108 

Ralph son of Siward de, 108 

, Emeline his wife, see 

Chambord 

William son of Siward de, 108-9 

Kirkby Woodhouse (co. Notting- 
ham), 48” 

Kirkdale, Kirkedala, 245 

church, 75”, 90, 202, 212, 244; 
and see Welburn 

Kirkebi, Simon de, 208 

Kirkebi Monachorum. 
Kirby 

Kirkewald. See Coxwold 


See Monks 


274 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Kirkham priory, 183 
Kirklevington (Cleveland), church, 
218 
Kirkoswald (Cumberland), manor 
and advowson, 8 
Kirkstall abbey, 114, 123, 186 
Knaptoft (co. Leicester), Capetoft, 
Cnape-, 174n 
‘Cotyngham’ meadow in, 174n 
Knaresborough, Knareburg, Knares-, 
Ckanare-, Cnare-, 12-14, 
20n, 107-8, 120 
manor. or honour, 9, 20, 38, 
76, 107n 
soke, 108, 123 
halimote, 13 
castle, 13, 122 
constable, 13 
advowson, 20” 
rector, 13; and see Rivallis 
Henry de, 108, 133 
Knoute, Richard, 162, 165 
, Eve his wife, see Boltby 
Kreic. See Crick 


Laadeford. See Langford 
Laceles. See Lascelles 
Laisethorp. See Laysthorpe 
Lalleford. See Lawford 
Lambert, 154 
chaplain of St. Peter’s hospital, 
150 
the clerk, 100 
Robert son of, 228 
William son of, 14 
Lambeth (Surrey), 122 
Lancashire, 9 
and see Amounderness, Cocker- 
sand, Garstang, Lonsdale 
Lancaster, Loncastre : 
Jordan de, 105 
William II de, 8 
, Helewise his wife, see 
Stuteville (Robert ITI) 
———, Helewise his dau., wife of 
Gilbert son of Roger son 
of Reinfred, 8 
William III de, 8 
Landeles : 
Robert de, 125 
Roland de, 233 
Landia. See Launde 
Landric, cellarer of Byland, 214, 233 
Langaran, -evan, 91, 231-2 
Langdale, Patrick de, 191 
Langford (co. Nottingham), Laade-, 
Lande-, 83”, 97-8, 115, 
117-9 
manor, 98 
church, 119 
Langley (Northumberland), 164 
manor, barony, 163-5 
Langley priory (co. Leicester), 25, 27 


Langthorpe (par. Isirby Hill), 80 
Langtoft, Lange-, Reginald de, 177 
Langton, -une, Beatrix dau. of 
Pain de, wife of Patrick 
de Skipwith, 138 
Robert de, 138” 
Langton (HR:), Langetum, 1,/°27; 
5”, 8, 66-7, 78-9, 80n, 82, 


84, 120, 177-9 
manon,.66,. 74, 60; 135, 170-1, 
178 


mill, 74”, 178 
churches, 74”, 178, 179 


fee, 177-9 
Langwith, -wat, Thomas de, clerk, 
150 
Lascelles, .-celes,. LLaceles, famuly; 
18ln 


Geoffrey de, 7, 147 
Roger de, 181 
Thomas de, 148, 209 
William de (various), 79, 148, 
151-2, 217 
, seal of, 151 
Lascy, Jibert tide; 201 
, Alice his wife, see Gant 
Lastingham, Lesting-, William the 
clerk of, 243 
Launde (co. Leicester), Landia, 
canon of. See William 
Laurence : 
mag., canon of York, 172-3 
the clerk, 12, 125 
prior of Guisborough, 209 
rector of Cottingham, 68 
Lawford, Long (co. Warwick), Lalle- 
for(d), Lellefordia, 23-4, 26, 
79, 81, 83, 131-2 
Drew de, 131 
‘Laxinton’ (? co. Leicester), 117-8 
Laysthorpe (par. Stonegrave), Laise- 
thorp, Leis-, Leyse-, 96-7, 
152; 159 
manor, 74, 152 
Lazonby (Cumberland), manor, 8 
Le Cacheux, M. Paul, 63” 
Mile. M.-J., 70”, 71n 
Leake, Lec, Lech, church, 95, 143 
Leibrunn’, -broun’. See Leyburn 
Leicester, Legrecestria : 
earl of, see Robert 
honour of, 7, 119 
Leicestershire, 26, 27”, 76-7, 79, 83, 


120, 174n 
and see Abkettleby, Belvoir, 
Breedon, Dalby, MHarby, 


Hoby, Holwell, Knaptoft, 
Langley, Launde, ‘Laxin- 
ton’, Melton Mowbray, 
Ratcliffe, Saltby, Somerby, 
Sysonby, Thrussington, 
Tonge, Welby, Wilson 
Leisthorpe, Leyse-. See Laysthorpe 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 275 


Lekeburn, William de, 134 
Lellefordia. See Lawford 
Lenton priory (co. Nottingham), 6 
prior of, see Philip 
Leonia. See Salisbury 
Leppington (par. Scrayingham), 141 
Lestingham. See Lastingham 
Letold, Lethold, John son of. See 
John 
Leuedimar, 194 
Leuekeldesyc, 194 
Leueric, 190 
Lewes (Sussex), 68 
priory, 2; .29, 33, 119 
, prior of, 32-3 
Leybourne (Kent), 11x 
Leyburn, Leibrunn’, -broun’, 11, 12 
Liddel (Cumberland), Lidel, v, 13, 
14, 17, 22, 40, 69x, 76, 80, 
82° 126, ~248,. 1738n, 196, 
198 
barony, honour of, 15; 17, 22; 
68, 76-8, 80x, 83, 124, 127, 
135, 195-9 
castle, 13, 14n, 43n, 80 
forest, 78, £935 
manor, 157, 22. 78, 80, 125, 196 
market and fair, 22 
river, 15, 197-9 
vale of, 14, 127-8, 198 
church, 199 
house of religion of, see Canobie 
Liddel Strength, 195 
Lillebonne (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Inf.), 54 
forest, 54 
churches in district, 54 
Limber, Great (co. Lincoln), Lind- 
berge, 115-6 
Limesy, -ia, Gerard de, 231 
Lincols, emcolia, 1, 5,10; 73 
battle of, 15 
a citizen of, 5 
houses near the bridge of, 85 
Thorngate castle, 247 
earls of, see Gant, Roumare 
bishop of, 85, 117, 247 ; and see 
Robert 
church of, 1, 26, 85, 1192, 124, 
187, 188” 
, chapter, 188 
——, prebend of Thorngate, 85 
=. subdeans,” see ~ Blois, 
Bramfeld, Philip 
Lincolnshire, Lincol’scira, 3, 10, 15, 
202 “7223; 7627; 85). “E10, 
187, 188, 196 
sheriff of, 10; and see Osbert 
and see Aubourn, Axholme, 
Bardney, Barton, Bigby, 
Bonby, Bourne, Bullington, 
Calcewath, Castle Bytham, 
Claxby, Donington, Ep- 


Lincolnshire——continued 
worth, Ferriby, Frieston, 


Gainsborough, Glentham, 
Gunby, Hale, Halton, 
Heckington, Hemingby, 


Howell, Kettleby Thorpe, 
Limber, Louth, _Navenby, 
Newbo, Ormesby, Revesby, 
Saxby, Sempringham, 
Sloothby, Stallingborough, 
Stamford, Steeping, Stix- 


would, Tetford, Thorn- 
holme, Witham, Wroot, 
Yarborough 


Lindberge. See Limber 
Lindsey, Lindesai, Simon de, 100 
Liolf, the tailor, 166 
Lions-la-Forét (Normandy, dept. 
Eure), castle, 54 
Lisle, de Insula : 
Brian de, 11, 20, 38, 51 
, Grace his wife, see Saleby 
Geoffrey de, 231 
Robert de, 29, 33 
, Rohese his wife, see 
Stuteville (Roger) 
William, 131” 
Loccum, Locum, 91, 231-2 
Locumeslehit, 231 
Loftscogha, -shaga, 223-4 
Logardus, Richard and Walter, 216 
Loges, Les (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Ind. “arr. le “Havre “cant, 
Fécamp), 45 
church, 45” 
Logi, Philip de, 233 
Lombard, Lum-, mag. John, 201-2 
Loncastre. See Lancaster 
London, 43, 59, 63 
Long Preston, 182 
mill, 182 
Longford, John de, 61 
Longueville priory (Normandy, dept. 
Seine-Inf.), 71 
Lonsdale wapentake (co. Lancaster), 
5) 


Louth (co. Lincoln), Lue in Lindissia, 
116-7 
Louvain, territory of, 44 
Loyd, L. C., 25”, 41n, 70, 227 
Lucas, John son of, kg’s justice, 
167, 169 
Lucy, Luci, family, 165 
Alice de, wife of Alan de Multon, 
164 
Reginald de, 16 
Richard de, 237-8 
Richard de (of Egremont), 8 
———, Ada his wife, see Moreville 
Thomas de (son of Alan de 
Multon), 162, 164-5 
, Isabel his wife, see Boltby 
Ludgershall (Wiltshire), 11 


276 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Lue. See Louth 
Lumbard. See Lombard 
Lund, 91, 232, 234 
Lund Court, and Head (in Welburn), 
234 
Lunshaw beck, 166 
Luterel, fee, 181 
Sir Andrew, 181 
Geoffrey, 126, 181 
Luthe, Gilbert de, 185 
Luvel, Adam, 212-3, 222 
Luvetot, -toft, Nigel de, 224 


M : 
prior sof St: Andrew's York; 
107-8 
of Newburgh, 249 
Madox, Thomas, xi, 131 
Magnebi. See Maunby 
Magnhill, 143-4 
Magnus, Ralph, 230 
Mainil. See Meinil 
Maitland, F. W., 46” 
Major, Miss K., 15x 
Mala palude, William] de, canon 
of York, 201 
Malbis. See Acaster Malbis 
Maldred. See Meldred 
Malebisse, -bestia, -bys, Malbisse, 
-bys, Mala bissa, family, 
38n, 100, 209 
Hugh (de), steward of Roger de 
Mowbray, 100, 200n, 209, 
212-4, 223, 233-4, . 236-7, 
239-40, 247 
Hugh, younger, 156 
John, 38 
mag. Peter, 242 
(Sir) Richard son of William, 38, 
100, 123, 209 
——, Emma his dau., wife of 
Robert de Meinil and 
Robert de Stuteville (of 
Ayton), 38, 40, 177 
William, 12, 100 
, Emma his wife, see Percy 
Malcolm IV, king of Scotland, 196, 
198 
his butler, see Sules 
Malecake, Alan, 209 
Malesoueres, William, 216 
Malessart. See Kirkby Malzeard 
Malet, fee, 38, 140, 209” 
Robert, 100 
Malherbe, -erbe : 
Jordan, 136 
William, 222 
Malore, Anketin, 79, 185-6 
, Sara his wife, see Mow- 
thorpe 
, Nicholas his son, 186 
Malpas, Reginald, 105 


Maltalent : 
Gilbert de, 125 
Robert, 205 
Maltby, Mautebi, Robert de, 104, 
202-3 
——, Emma his wife, 104, 202-3 
Malton, -tun : 
Walter the chaplain of, 193 
John the clerk of, 128 
Richard the clerk of, 203 
Henry de, 231 
Walter de, 167 
Malton priory, Vetus Malton, 173, 
179, 183 
chartulary, 8” 
Mandeville : 
Geoffrey - de, earl. of Bssex, 
237-8 
William de, earl of Essex, 4 
Manfield, Agnes de, 185 
Manil. See Meinil 
Maniueuilain, Stephen, 224 
—, John and William his 
sons, 224 
Mansel, Thomas, 154 
Mapelbusc, -busch, 91, 232 
Mappleton, 28, 30-2 
-church, 29n 
advowson, 28, 29, 32 
John the clerk of, 30x 
Marden (Wiltshire), 72 
Marderby (par. Felixkirk), Marther-, 


Marthere-, 96-7, 152-6, 
158-9, 180 

manor, 74, 129, 152-3 

hall, 155 


Mare, Mara, Alan de (la), 105, 150 
Margaret, Ralph son of, 217 
Marmoutier (Tours), abbot of, 57 
Marrick priory, 183 
Marshal, Marescallus : ; 
earl, see Bigod 
William, earl of Pembroke, 111, 
115 
Martel, family, 70” 
Baldric, 71” 
William, 10 
Martin : 
the chaplain, 172 
mag., 201 
the serjeant of Kirkby [Moor- 
side], 124 
Marton, -toun, -tun : 
Robert the clerk of, 217 
Arnald de, 134 
Marton, Long (Westmorland), Mere- 
ten, 17, 1122 
Masham, ixn 
Mastac, -tak, William de, 18, 20-2 
——, Margaret his wife, see 
Stuteville (Nicholas II) 
Matthew : : 
the clerk, 201 


INDEX. OF PERSONS AND PLACES 217 


Matthew—continued 
the forester, 123 
son of Herbert, 126 
Maud : 
the empress, 50” 
Robert son of, 182-3 
Mauley, fee, 186 
family, 186 
(sir) Peter Ll de, 112,186 
Peter III de, 186 
Maunby, Magnebi : 
Andrew de, 169 
William de, 239 
Maunsel, Odo de, 192 
, Geoffrey his son, sce Etton 
Maurice, Richard son of, 79 
Mautebi. See Maltby 
Meauton. See Melton Mowbray 
Meaux, Meausse, Mehus, Melsa, 
Meus, Miause : 
abbey, 7/127, <t79," 19, 29569: 
89, 90, 101, 141”, 191, 194-5 
——, abbot of, 192; and see 
Adam, Philp, Thomas 
, conventual offices, 89, 90 
, chronicle of, 90, 191, 194 
family, 141” 
Godfrey de, 141 
(Sir) John de, 109, 113, 117, 141, 
158, 194, 
John de, younger, 78-9, 130, 141 
Robert de, 91, 103-7 
Robert son of John de, 141 
, Maud his wife, see Camin 
Meinil, Manil, Mai-, Menyll, Mayn-, 
Meynill, fee,.37,.67, 81, 106 
Gilbert de, 156, 208-9 
Sir Nicholas de, 39, 40, 78 
Robert I de, 1, 76, 84, 86, 140 
Robert LIL de, 38, 40 
, Emma his wife, see 
Malebisse 
Stephen I de, 86, 93, 140 
stephen Il dé, 93; 130n, 1s6n 
Stephen III de, 40, 93, 129-30, 
158-9 
Stephen /de ~ (of 
1302, 209 
Meisnilhermer, Mesnil-, Meihnill’- 
hermeri, William de, 106, 
249 
Meldred, Maldred, son of Dolfin, 
vill, 24, 26” 
Robert his son, 24, 26 
Melsa. See Meaux 
Melton Mowbray (co. Leicester), 
Meauton, Miau-, 2, 115, 
117-8 
church, 119 
Menthorpe (par. Hemingbrough), 
Mene-, 135, 137-9 
John de,139 
Jordan de, 139 


Thirkleby), 


Meregate, 211 
Mereton. See Marton 
Merlay, family, 30” 
Anselm de, 30”, 134 
Roger I de, 30, 134 
, Alice his wife, see Stute- 
ville (Roger) 
, Agnes his dau., 3ln 
Roger II de, 31 
Roger IIL de, 30-2, 134 
, Alice dau. of, 31 

——, Isabel dau. of, wife of 
Robert de Eure and Robert 
de Somerville, 31, 33 

——, Mary dau. of, wife of 
Walter de Bolebec and 
William de Greystoke, 31 

William de, 30 

Meschin, Mischin, Ranulf le, 85 

Meulan, count of, 72n 

Meus. See Meaux 

Meyneville, Adam de, 63 

Meynill. See Meinil 

Miause. See Meaux 

Miauton. See Melton Mowbray 

Michael son of Brian, 208 

Middlebergh (in Kilburn), Midel- 
berga, 223-4 

Middleham, lord of, 12 

‘Middleham’ (nr. Kirkby Moorside), 
75 

Middlehead (in Farndale), -houet, 
Midelhouet, 203, 218, 231-2, 
234 

Middlemove, Midel-, Middel-, 154-6 

Middleton; Sir Richard de, keg’s 
justice and chancellor, 39 

Middleton (wap. Pickering Lythe), 
Midel-, 16, 17, 78, 80-2, 
127, 147,. 196-7 

manor, 80 

advowson, 78, 127 

Robert son of Eudo de, 128 

Midethirst, 91, 232 

Milburn (Westmorland), Mile-, 111-2 
forest, 112 
grange, 112 

Milneholm, 245 

Mischin. See Meschin 

Mitford (Northumberland), 60 
manor, 63 ) 

castle, castlery, v, vi, 60-1, 63 

Miton. See Myton 

Mohaut, de Monte alto, Robert de, 
105 

Molbray. See Mowbray 

Molesden (Northumberland), 60 

Momby, John de, 40” 

———, Milicent his wife, see 
Stuteville (Robert of Cot- 
tingham) 

Monceaux, Munceus, family, 170 

Alan de, 170 


278 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Monk, le Moigne, monachus, Alan, 
190 
——, Alan son of, 190 
Monkhaid (in Bramham), 112 
Monks Kirby (co. Warwick), Kirkebi 
Monachorum, 115, 117-8 
church, 118, 119” 
priory, 26, 118 
Monkton, Moor. See Moor Monkton 
Mont St-Michel, Le (Normandy), 63 
Montbegon, de Monte Begonis, 
Roger de, 126 
Montbrai (Normandy, dept. Manche, 
air. St-L6),' 200 
and see Mowbray 
Monte, Wilikin de, 156 
Monte alto, de. See Mohaut 
Montfort, Monfort, Mun-, Munford, 
family, 66”, 133n 
Henry de, 66, 67n° 
Hugh de, 222, 224 
Peter de, 18, 21, 67 
Robert I de, 66, 132, 133n 
Robert II de, 26, 66, 67, 132 
Thurstan I de, 3, 65-7, 1372, 
133”, 136”, 205, 212 
——, Juliana his wife, see 
Murdac 
——, Juliana his dau., wife of 
Robert de Daiville, 66n, 


97-8 
Thurstan II de, 7, 14n, 66-7, 
132, 140, 178 


Moor Monkton, 182 
Mora, Alan de la, 226 
Morandiére, G. de la, vi, 41n, 43” 
Moreby (par. Stillingfleet), 1, 84, 185 
manor, 74, 185 
Moreville : 
Hugh de, 198 
Hugh de, kg’s justice, 6 
Hugh de (of Burgh), 8, 9” 
——, Helewise his wife, see 
Stuteville (Robert IIL) 
===, Ada his’ daw. “wite -of 
Richard de Lucy, 8 
——, Joan his dau., wife of 
Richard Gernun, 8 
Richard son of Hugh de, 119, 
198 
——, Helen or Hilaria his dau., 
wife of Roland of Galloway, 
21, 117-9 
Simon de, 8 
, Ada his wife, see Engaine 
William de, 119 
Morinus, Philip, canon of Beverley, 
G9 
Morpeth (Northumberland), 30-1, 
134 
Mortain, -tuna, count of, 74x, 108, 
146: 152,. 270, 27 ise, 175, 
180, 183, 186 


Mortain—continued 

, honour, fee of, 77, 191 
and see John 

Mortimer, Mortemer, de Mortuo 

Mari, fee, 141 

Geoffrey de, 184 

, Sibyl his wife, 79, 184 

Hugh de, 36 

Ralph de, 187 

Ralph de, younger, 184 

Robert de, 36 

, Margery his wife, see Say 
Robert de, younger, 81 
Waleran de, 184 
William de, 79, 184 

Mortun, -thona. See Murton 

Mortuna. See Mortain 


Mount Ferrant (par. Birdsall), 
Mountferaunt, castle, 89, 
90 

Mount St. John (par. Felixkirk), 
Hospitallers’ preceptory, 
160 


and see Hospitallers, Rugemunt 
Mowbray, Mo-, Mol-, Mou-, Mu-, 

Mul-,  Molbrai, -breium, 
Montbrai, Mou-, Moul- : 

honour, barony, x, 14, 23, 73, 
7on, 76-7, 81, 84, 98, 100, 
104; £16-7;° 1207 448, 153, 
17l#,.179; 183, 187-8; 191, 
200-48 

family, ix, 10,°38, 67; 76-7, 
LAS. 160-1; FSS 187; 202 

heir of, 78 

Sir John de, 81, 148 

Nigel I de, 83, ‘201, 212-4, 218, 
222, 232-3, 235, 237, 239-40; 
242-3, 245-8 

——, his seal, 222 

Nigel Il de, 77 

Robert de, earl of Northumber- 
land, 200 

Robert. son of Roger de; 201, 
232, 237, 239-40, 244 

Roger 1 de, ix,. 1,3; 5).23, 66x, 
67n, 73, 75, 83, 86, 88-9, 91, 
97-100, 116-7, 118, 119, 
120m, 132, . 141-2, 444, 
180-1, 187, 200-7, 209-16, 
218, 221-6, 228-48 

———., Alice his wife, see Gant 

——, his_barons, 240 

———, his butler, see Herbert 

———, his chaplain, see Robert 

——, his clerks, see Aubigny, 
Condet 

—, his court, 213, 238-9, 242 

——, ———, members named, 239 

——, —— , of Thirsk, his 
knights in, 246-7 
-- his stewards, see Belvoir, 
Malebisse, Wyville 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 279 


Mowbray—continued 
Roger II de, 62x, 77, 188 
Roger III de, 79, 80, 82, 142-3, 
148, 152, 165, 178, 180-1, 
~ JS 
William de, 1, 7n, 19, 76x, 83, 
86, 98, 114-9, 180, 201-2 
Mowthorpe (par Terrington), 186 
family, 186 
William de, 186 
——, Sara his dau., wife of 
Anketin Malore, 186 
Mulek, Walter de, 127 
Multon, Alan de, 164 
——, Alice his wife and Thomas 
his, son, see Lucy 
Mulwith, -waith, Robert de, 123 
Muncaster, Mulcastra, -tre, (Sir) 
Walter de, 124, 129 


Munceus. See Monceaux 
Mundevile : | 
Jebn de, 159 


William de, 243 
Munfort, -ford. See Montfort 
Murdac, -dak, family, 136 


fee, 135-40 
Geoffrey, vii, 3, 65-7, 86, 136, 
139-40, 178” 


——, Juliana his dau., wife of 
Thurstan de Montfort, 3, 
66-7, 136”, 140, 178 

Henry, archbishop of York, 5, 
136, 146, 149, 207n 

Hugh, 136 « 

, Hugh, Stephen, William, 

Henry [?] his sons, 136” 
Hugh, kg’s justice, 107-9, 136, 

167, 169, 206 
Ralph, kg’s justice, 1367 
Richard, 88-9, 136 
Robert, 89, 99, 135-7, 140 
Murton (par. Hawnby), Morthona, 
Mortun, 3, 99, 100, 166 
Muschamp, -campis, -chans : 
Geoffrey de, archdeacon of 
Cleveland, 106 
Robert de, 37 
Muscoates (par. Kirkdale), Muse- 
cothes, -cote(s), 79, 80, 147, 
228, 232, 234 
Gilbert de, 243 

Muswathfurlang’, 146 

Myton, Miton, Nicholas de, 220 

Myton (Hull), 102, 141 

_Myton-upon-Swale, 1, 76, 84 


Navenby (co. Lincoln), 78x 
Nawton (par. Kirkdale), Nagel-, 
Nauil-, Nagaltun, 75, 222, 
224-6, 228, 243 
dale, Nageltundala, 225 
Abraham de, 243 
Alan de, 211 


Nawton—continued 
Ivo de, 151 
Robert son of Drew de, 225 
Ness, East (par. Hovingham), 35, 
37, fon, 79, 142 
manor, 37 
Neville, Novavilla : 
of Raby, ancestry and family, 
vill, 24, 26n 
Hugh de, 188 
Matthew de, 7 
Ralph de, 136 
Turold de, 239 
Newbald, 35, 142 
Newbo abbey (co. Lincoln), 209 
Newbold-on-Avon (co. Warwick), 
23-4, 26, 79, 81, 83 
manor, 26 
Newbold Revel (co. Warwick), 77, 
81, 83, 120” 
Newburgh (par. Coxwold), Neu-, 
Noburc, de Novoburgo, 
202, 206, 246, 248 
priory, 3, 86, 102-3, 128,. 153, 
201-2, 206-9, 236, 244-6, 249 
——., priors of, xi, 103, 180, 
237; and see Augustine, 
Bertiard, D> M.,. Phalup, 
Richard, Walter 
; , list of, 248-50 
——, canons, see Bernard, 
Nigel, William son of Elias 
——, muniments, 202n 
——, register, 245n 
, scriptorium, 202 
, seal, 103 
, cell, see Hood 
William of, canon of, 249 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne (Northumber- 
land), 196 
Neweton (unidentified), 4 
Roger son of John de, 4 
Newhouse, Neuhus, Odo de, 239 
Newland (Hull), 78 
Newminster abbey (Northumber- 
land), 4, 31x 
Newsham (par. Kirby Wiske), -som, 
Neusom, -sum, Newe-, 35-6, 
75n, 142-6 
family, 145 
Enisant or Nisand de, 143-5 
Eustace de, 144-5 
, Juliana his dau., wife of 
Andrew de Kirby Wiske, 


145 
Odo de, kg’s minister, 144, 
238-9, 246 


Ranulf de, 145 

Ranulf de, younger, 145-6 

Robert de, 144 

Robert son of Enisant de, 35, 
144-5 

Robert son of Ranulf de, 145 


280 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Newstead (co. Nottingham), prior of, 
64 


Newton, Neu : 
Peter de, 230, 243 
Robert de, 225-6 
William de, 226 
Newton (par. Cottingham), 207, 40, 78 
Newton, East, Est Neuton, John de, 
151 
Nichol forest (Cumberland), 14, 195” 
Nicholas : 
the chaplain, 190, 230-1 
the clerk of Buttercrambe, 227 
rector of Etton, 129 
the tailor, 216 
son of Durand, canon of York, 
235 
Nicolas, Sir Harris, vii 
Nidd, 38 
manor and advowson, 38 
Nigel, 166, 182-3 
canon of Newburgh, 101, 189 
Norfolk, 35n, 45 
earl of, see Bigod 
sheriff of, 45 
and see Bedingham, Castle Acre, 
Gresham, Gressenhall, 
Kimberley, Norwich, 
Thwaite, Wendling 
Norman, the priest, 235 
, of ‘Halgtona’, 243 
Normanby (wap. Ryedale), -manebi, 
73, 219 
parish 228 
Normandy, 1, 7, 13n, 43-8, 52, 954, 
55n, 60, 62, 64, 70, 71x, 
120-1, 200, 223, 238 
dukes of, see Henry, Richard, 
Robert, William 
duchy, 54 
barons of, 54 
army of, 10” 
Normans : 
disseisin of the, 45 
lands and serjeanties of the, 
55-6 
Norrais, Robert, 169 
Northallerton, manor, 160 
Northampton, 4, 11, 25 
earl of, see Simon 
Council of, 238 
Northamptonshire, 25, 76-7, 79, 81, 
83, 120 
and see Clipston, Crick, Grim- 
scote, Hemington, Hough- 
ton, Pipewell, Silverston, 
Staverton, Welton 
Northaskeholme, 158 
Northumberland, vi, xn, 3, 4, 6, 10, 
13n, 30, 43, 60, 62-3, 164 
earl of, see Mowbray 
sheriff of, 10, 30, 35; and see 
Stuteville (Roger) 


Northumberland—continued 
castles in, 10 
and see Allerwash, Alnwick, 
Bamburgh, Bywell, Dis- 
sington, Farne, Felton, 
Hexham, Langley, Mitford, 
Molesden, Morpeth, New- 
castle, Newminster, Ponte- 
land, Stocksfield Stuteuile- 
ton’, Wark 
Norton (Campsall), 37 
Norton hundred (Somerset), 43-4 
Norton Ferris (par. Kilmington, 
Wiltshire), 44 
Norwich, 44 
bishop of, see John 
Nostell priory, de Sancto Oswaldo, 
20n, 112 
Nottingham, Notin-, Notinga-, 6, 
237-8, 240-2 
archdeacons of, see John son of 
Letold, Turcople, William 
Nottinghamshire, v, 50-3, 55, 56, 
59, 64, 72, 76 
sheriff of, 53”, 55-7, 59 
and see Annesley, Barton in 
Fabis, Bradmore, Cuckney, 
Egmanton, Felley, Kilving- 
ton, Kirkby in Ashfield, 
Karkby Woodhouse, Lang- 
ford, Lenton, Newstead, 
Welbeck 
Novavilla. See Neville 
Novoburgo, de. See Newburgh 
Nowel, Ralph, bishop of Orkney, 
204-5 
Nuers, Hugh de, 198 
Nun Monkton priory, 108, 136 
Nunnington (par. Stonegrave), 
Nunnin-, 104, 160, 202-3 
Nuuel, Ralph, 105 


Oakley. See Church Oakley 
Octon : 
Robert de, sheriff of Yorkshire, 
192 
——, Aubreye his dau., wife of 
Hugelin de Etton, 192 
William de, 192” 
Odard, sheriff of Cumberland, 195 
Odo-: 
Arbalistarius, 108 
the chaplain, 226 
father of Enisand (de Fadmoor), 
104 
son of Uiro or luro, 166 
Geoffrey brother of, 166 
Ralph son of, 51” 

— —, Maud his wife, 5ln 
Oglethorpe (par. Bramham), Ochles- 
torp, Ocles-, 111-2 

William de, 111 ; 
Oissellur, Robert le, 123 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 28 | 


Ordericus Vitalis, 70 
Orkney, bishop of. See Nowel 
Orm, Adam son of, 169 
Ormesby, South (co. Lincoln), ' 187, 
188 
Osbert : 
canon of Beverley, 99 
rector of Hinderwell, 190 
sheriff of Lincolnshire, 85 
of Yorkshire, 85 
Oswaldkirk, de Sancto Oswaldo, 
138” 
rector of, see Robert 
Otterington, South, 152-3 
Ouseburn, Little, 108 
, church, 108 
and see Wirkby Ouseburn 
Owstwick (par. Garton), 32 
Oxfordshire, 249 
and see Rotherfield, Woodstock 


Painel, Pagnell’. See Paynel 
Palestine, 201, 222 
and see Acre 
Palmer, Ivo and Gerard, 132 
Pantulf, Pauntolf, family, vii 
Philip son of Roger, 26x 
Philip son of William, 24, 257, 
27n 
Roger, 24, 26-7, 79 
, Burgia his dau., 24, 26-7 
, Bmma his dau., 24, 26 
Roger son of William, 24, 25n, 
27n 
William, 5, 24-7, 72n 
, Burga his wife, see Stute- 
ville (Robert II) 
William son of Roger, 24, 26 
William son of William, 24, 257, 
27n 
——., Eustachia his dau., 24, 27 
——, Isolda his dau., wife of 
Walter de Tateshall and 
Walter de Baskerville, 24, 
27. 
Pantunia, Jordan de, 131 
Papeillun, {?]| Hauenannus, 132 
Parar’, Walter, 203 
Paris, Matthew, 18x 
Patker, Col: John, vin, 21 
Pateshulle, Pateshill : 
John de, 79 
Simon de, 114, 126 
Paulinus, 228 
the priest, 235 
Thomas son of, canon of York, 
733. 238,- 243 
Pauntolf. See Pantulf 
Paynel, Painel, Pagnell’, -anell’ : 
fee, 146, 186, 203 
family (of Hambye), 63 
(of Hooton Pagnell), 183 
Alexander, 112 


Paynel—continued 
———, Agnes his wife, see Fossard 
Fulk I (of Drax and Hambye), 
154, 169 
John, 146 
Ralph, 106, 180-2 
, Maud his wife, see Surdeval 
——, Beatrice his dau., [?] 
wife of Jocelin de Amunde- 


ville, 182 
Wiliam (of Hooton Pagnell), 
111-2, 181 


——, Isabel his dau., wife of 
William Bastard, 183 


Pecehe.2 
Gilbert, 53 
Hamo, 52 


——, Alice his wife, see Peverel 
Pelehale, Robert de, 143 
Peletoft, Walter de, 96 
Pembroke, Penbroc, earls of. See 
Marshal, Valence 
Percehay, -haie : 
Alan, 243 
Arnold, 150 
Percy, 4ee; honour, x, 777,182 
family, 175” 
Alan son of William de, 175, 
220 
, Emma his wife, see Gant 
Ernald de (of Kildale), 192, 
248 
Richard de, 175 
Robert de, 134 
Robert de (ot Kildale), 192 
William I de, 220 
William II de, 16” 
, Sibyl his wife, see Valognes 
—, Emma his dau., wife of 
William Malebisse, 12x, 100 
William de, 117-8, 123, 134 
William de, 18 
, Nichola his wife, 18 
Wilham de (of Kildale), 129, 


192n 
William de, abbot of Whitby, 
210 
Pererés, Tush de, 77 
Pert, Perte : 


Eustace de, 80 
William de, 127 
Peter : 
Ar[?mijger, 131 
the clerk, 236 
the priest, 96 
Adam son of, 169 
Gilbert son of, 203 
Pethun, Swain, 172 
Petribricius, dom., prior of Temple 
of the Lord at Jerusalem, 
99 
Peuenesel, Lvo, 154 
Peuere ov Peuore, Robert, 97 


282 SIUTEVILLE FEE 


Peverel : 
honour (of Dover), 53 
—— (of Nottingham), 184n 
family, 52n 
Robert, 52 
——, Alice his dau., wife of 
Hamo Pecche, 52 
, Asceline his dau., wife of 
Geoffrey de Walterville, 
52-3 
———, Maud his dau., wife of 
Hugh de Dover, 52 
———=, Roaise his’ dauw., wife of 
Rollo de Harcourt, 52 
William (of Bourn), 52 
William (of Dover), 52n 
Philip, 208 
abbot of Byland, x, 223 
of Meaux, 102 
prior of Lenton, 242 
of Newburgh, 250 
of Holy Trinity, York, 217 
subdean of Lincoln, 125 
son of John, 158 
Philip Augustus, king of France, v1, 
45-6, 54, 56 
Pichel, 138 
Pickering, Pik-, 3, 6, 196 
bailiwick, 113 
castle, 10”, 113 
Pickering Lythe,  Pikeringalith, 
wapentake, 18, 196 
rural dean of (Ryedale), see 
Engelram 
Picton, Pike-, Geoffrey de, 106 
Pillwoods (par. Cottingham), 74 
Pingun, W., 159 
Pipewell abbey (co. Northampton), 
Pipwelle, 23, 26, 131 
register, 26 
Pisa, citizens of, 35x 
Plantepholia, William, 204 
Plumpton, Plumton, Nigel de, 109, 
118 


Pocklington, Poclintona, 69 
manor, 69 
Alan the priest of, 243 

Poer, Rainald le, 203 

Poher, Putier, “Kobert (ie), ‘kes 
justice, 167, 169 

- Poitou, 17 

Poncius, lord of Chatillon, 61 

Pons Belli. See Stamford Bridge 

Pons Burgi. See Boroughbridge 

Pontefract priory, 206”, 248 

Ponteland (Northumberland), 

church, 60” 

Pope, the, 208; and see Adrian, 
Alexander, Anastasius, 
Celestine, Clement, 
Eugenius, Urban 

Poterna, James de, 126 

Poulson, George, 28n 


Powicke, Sir M., 18” 

Préaux, de Pratellis, Peter de, 114 
Préaux abbey (Normandy, dio. 
Lisieux), 41” 70 

Preston. See Long Preston 
‘Preteio’ de (Normandy), 45 
Preus, Peter de, 42, 55 
, Isabel his wife, see Estoute- 
ville (Henry) 
Princethorpe (co. Warwick), 81 
Puher. See Poher 
Puiset : 
Bouchard, Burchard du, trea- 
surer of York, 143 
Hugh du, treasurer of York and 
bishop of Durham, 34, 95- 
6, 143, 149, 153, 207-8, 237 
——, Theobald his clerk, 233 
Puldre, Roger, 241 
Pundeburg. See Boroughbridge 


Quincy : 
Roger de, 17 
Saer de, earl of Winchester, 17 


Rabaz, -oz, Peter, 225-6 
Rabot, Philip, 193 
Raby (co. Durham), viii, 24, 26” 
Radeford, mag. Serlo de, 242 
Rai, Richard le, 224 
Raimes, Mr. A. L., 50x”, 51n 
Raimes. See Rames 
Rainald, 228 
Rainer, Reiner : 
mag., 242 
the steward, 101, i89 
of Ranulf de Glanville, 169 
Benedict son of, 216 
Juliana widow of, 108 
Raineville, -avylle, Reineville, 
Thomas de, canon of York, 
98, 149, 233, 235 
Raisthorpe (par. Wharram Percy), 
74, 178 
Ralph, 193 
abbot of Jedburgh, 125 
the archdeacon, see Aunay, Baro 
the bishop, see Nowel 
the chamberlain, 209 
the clerk of Walter de Coutances, 
169 
prior of Guisborough, 101 
the smith, 227 
the vicar, 172 
son of Hubert, v, 50-1 
son of Margaret, 217 
son of Odo, 51x 
, Maud his wife, 51” 
son of Ralph, 106, 143 
son of Robert, 172 
Henry son of, 177 
Hubert son of, 50-2, 56 
Robert son of, see Robert 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 283 


Rames (Normandy, dept. Seine-Inf., 
arr. Le- Havre, cant. St- 
Romain), Raimes, Ramis, 
Reimes, Rey-, 42-3, 48-9, 

— 80n, 54 
honour of, ‘honor ramorum’, v, 
43, 48-50, 54, 64 
castle, 54 
family, 50”, 52 
of Overstrand and Wher- 
stead, 50x 
Adeliz de, wife of Edward of 
salisbury -and -Payn de 
Houghton, v, 42, 49, 50 
Leonia de, see Salisbury 
Richard de, 52 
Roger de, 50” 
Roger de, [?] younger, 49, 50 
William de, 52 
Ranult : 
canon of Bridlington, 242 
chaplain of St. Peter’s hospital, 
150 
I, earl of Chester, 195 
II, earl of Chester, 26 
son of Robert son of Ralph (of 
Middleham), 11, 12 
William son of, see William 

Ratcliite’ on the Wreak._ (co. 
Leicester), 81 

Ravensthorpe (par, Pelixkirik), 
Rauenestorp, 20; 74, 79, 
128-9, 160, 163-8, 170n 

manor, 163, 1465 

mill, 164 

Mill and Manor, 160 
Arkil de, 166 

‘heirs of’, 170 

Ravenswyke (par. Ixirkby Moorside), 
Revenwich’, Evenewit, 
Yauenwyth, Yeven, Yeve- 
with, 92, 93x, 94-5 

Redburn, William de, 150-1 

Redman, Sir Richard, 176 

——, Elizabeth his wife, see 
Aldburgh 

—, Richard his son, 176 

Redover, Redofra, river, 90-1, 211-3, 
232n, 234, 241 

Reginald, 97 

canon of Bridlington, 241 
son of William, 216 
and cf. Rainald 

Reimes. See Rames 

Reiner. See Rainer 

Reineville. See Raineville 

Reinfred, Gilbert son of Roger son 
of. See Gilbert 

Revenwich’. See Ravenswyke 

Revesby (co. Lincoln), de Sancto 
Laurentio, abbot of. See 

Hugh 

Reymes. See Rames 


Richard: 

Ly kines ~9n,- 14,5 Bon 840, 
110, 112, 140, 166-7, 201 
, first coronation of, 111 
——, A. his god-dau., wife of 

John de Stuteville, 35x 
Il-king, 23 
the baker, 232 
bishop of Chester, 131-2, 237-8 
the butler, 205 
the chaplain, 167, 172 
——— of Simon dean of York, 

201 
the clerk, 106 
of Bossall, 103 

——— of Doncaster, 104 

—— of Malton, 203 

I, duke of Normandy, 45 

II, duke of Normandy, 45, 70 

earl of Cornwall, 58 

the knight, 198, 219 

the priest of Watton, 193 

prior of Newburgh, 101, 182n, 

189, 202, 253, 244. 247-8 

the smith, 205 

son of Alan, 224 

son of Maurice, 79 

son of Swain, 232 

son of Tocea, 172 

Herbert son of, 243 

Simon son of, 242 

Walter son of, 100, 193 
Richard’s Castle (co. Hereford), 36, 

77in 

honour of, viii, 36 
Richmond, Richemund : 

honour of, ix, 11x, 330; 112; . 

183, 185 

———, steward of, see Wimar 

Peter de, 159 
Ricton. See Rigton 
Ridale, family, 220 

Nicholas de, 220 

Patrick de; 105, 150; 220” 

Walter de, 105 

and see Gospatric, Ryedale 
Riddell (of Scotland), family, 220 
Ridel : 

Geoffrey, 111 

Geoffrey (of Northamptonshire), 
25 
, his fee, 25 
Rievaulx abbey, Rievallis, -wallis, 

Ryevallis, 3, 6, 7, 34-5, 
36n, 68, 71, 90, 92, 99, 100, 
118, 147, 150-1, 160, 163, 
165-9, 174, 183, 203, 209-20, 
224-45, 248-9 

abbots of, xi, 1157,° 147, 234, 
248 ; and see Ailred, Ernald, 
Geoffrey, Warin, William 

prior of, see Koger 


chapter, 245 


284 STLUTEVILLE GEE 


Rievaulx abbey—continued 
chartulary, x 
register of gifts, 227, 234 
kifford, Jordan de, 118 
Rigton (par. Bardsey), Ricton, 114 
Riparia. See Rivere 
Ripley, Rippe-, 13, 180 
Bernard de, 101, 189 
Riplingham (par. Rowley), 35, 37, 
79, 82, 142 
Ripon, chapter of, 38 
canon of, see Hurel 
Risby (par. Rowley), 68” - 
Riton. See Ryton 
Rivallis, Peter de, rector of Knares- 
borough, 20 
Rivario, Richard de, 173 
Rivere, de Riparia, Walter de la, 
203, 212, 229-30, 233 
Roald, Ruald : 
prior of Guisborough, 101 
Robert son of, 189 
Robba, 232 
Robert, 172, 182-3 
abbot of St-Evroul, 71 
of St. Mary’s York, 147 
archdeacon of Glasgow, 125 
of York, see Butevilain 
I, bishop of Lincoln, 85 
II, bishop of Lincoln, 25”, 132, 
237-8 
cellarer of St. Peters hospital, 
150 
the chamberlain, 117-8, 233 
the chaplain of Helmsley, 217, 
243 
—— of Roger de Mowbray, 
212-4, 219, 233-4, 236-7, 
239 
—— of St. Peter’s hospital, 150 
the clerk, 172 
of Marton, 217 
dean of York, 97-8, 172; and 
see Butevilain, Gant 
duke of Normandy, Curthose, 
said, 1; 2 bt6 
I, earl of Leicester, 85 
II, earl of Leicester, 237 
the forester, 109 
master of the schools of York, 
98, 216 
the merchant, 134 
the priest, 156 
of Edstone, 227 
prior of St. Andrew’s York, 108 
rector of Arthuret, 16 
of Oswaldkirk, 230 
the rural dean, see Helmsley 
son of Adam, 163 
son of Erneis, 218, 230 
son of Giuo, 103 
son of Guum, 105, 169 
son of Haschwi, 220 


Robert—continued 
son of Hugh, 105 
son of Lambert, 228 
son of Maud, 182-3 
son of Meldred son of Dolfin, 
24, 26 
son of Ralph (of Middleham), 12 
, Helewise his wife, see 
Glanville 
ikanwli dus son; 11, 12 
son of Roald, 189 
son of Stephen, mag., 96 
son of Victor, 241 
son of William, vice or sub- 
archdeacon, 217-8 
‘hepos episcopi’, 116 
Ralph son of, 172 
Roche,. dé» Rupe, abbot. of. See 
Tickhill 
Roches, Peter des, 122 
Rochesberc, -berge. See Rook 
Barugh 
Rochesburc. See Roxburgh 
Roger : : 
abbot at Hood and of Byland, 
86, 146, 148-9, 166, 202, 
206-7, 214; 221. 223, - 233, 
246, 248 
archbishop of York, 95-6, 193, 
214-5, 233, 235-8, 248 
——, his clerks, see Alan, 
Carcassonne, Hurel, 
Jeremy, de Sancto Georgio 
——., his minister, see Hugh 
—., his seal, 95n 
, legatine style, 95-6, 215 
the deacon, 204 
the priest, 220 
prior of Bridlington, 207 
— of Rievaulx, 24] 
rector of Howden, x1, 99 
of Wawne, 194 
the reeve, 172 
brother of Everard, 107 
, ik. his son; 107 
Rolland son of Uctred. See Galloway 
Romanby, Romundebia, Robert son 
of Ucca de, 228 
Romanus, mag. John, canon of 
York, 201 
Romund, Gervase son of, 216 
Rook Barugh (par. Normandy, wap. 
Ryedale), Rochesberc, 
-berge, Roge-, Roke-, 
Rokesbergh, 92-4, 226-8 
Siward de, 227 
Ros, honour, x 
Everard de, 141, 218-9, 243 
, his steward, see William 
Peter de, 91 
Peter de, archdeacon of Carlisle, 
106 
Richard de, 151 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 285 


Ros—continued 
——, Sibyl his wife, 151 
Robert. ide (of Helmsley), 
16n, 219, 229 
, Sibyl his wife, see Valognes 
Robert II de, 9, 38 
Robert JII de, 185 
William de, 151” 

Rosedale (par. Middleton), Rosse-, 
Russe-, Rusedala, Russen-, 
Rusdall, 126 

vale of, 16, 126, 196, 197n 

henour of, 167; 17;22, 76, 80, 
82-3, 127, 135,- 195-9 

priory, Vl,.<x1,. 16; -F7, 2125-6, 
195, 197, 199 

Guy de, 196, 198-9 

Ralph de, 196, 198-9 

Robert de, 97, 196 

Turgis de, 195 

Turgis de, younger, 195-9 

William de, 195, 197-9 

-- Godeheuld his wife, 195, 

198 

Rosel, Robert (de), 111-2 

Rosse, George, 147 

Rotherfield (co. Oxford), 185 

and see Grey 
Rouen (Normandy), Rothomagum, 
13, 43, 110-1, 120-1, 223 
archbishop of, 59, 222 
chapter of, 223 
canon of, see Estouteville (mag. 
John) 
abbey of St. Amand, 70-1 
Martin of, 103 

Roumare (Normandy, dept. Seine- 

Int., are, Kouen), 70x 
William de, earl of Lincoln, 
70n, 196 

Round, J. H., 7m, 49n, 50n, 71n 

Rounton, Runge-, mag. Ralph de, 190 

Rowley (E.R.), Ruelaie, 40 

church, 19, 74 
advowson, 78 
priest of, 25 
William de, 108 

Rowlston (par. Mappleton), 29, 31-2 

Roxburgh, Rochesburc, castle, 10 

Roxburghshire, 220 

Ruald. See Roald 

. Rudby, Ruddebi : 

Hugh de, 217 
Walter de, 217 

Rudston, -stan, Rudes-, Ruddes- 

taine, Rurdes-, 31 
Walter de, 190 
William de, 32, 133, 169 

Ruelaie. See Rowley 

Ruele, Alan de, 125 

Ruffus, Henry, 51” 

Rugemunt [? Mount St. John in 
Felixkirk], 156 


Rumesdale, 92 
de Thuervegate, 105 
Rumilly, Rumelli : 
Alice de, wife of William son of 
Duncan, 16x 
, Alice her dau., 16 
Henry de, 231 
Rungeton. See Rounton 
Rupe, de. See Roche 
Russedale. See Rosedale 
Rutendbec, -ebek, 223-4 
Rutendesic, 166 
Rutland, co. See Seaton, Wardley, 
Whissendine, Wing ; 
Ruwerfort, Hugh de, 125 
Ryedale, Ridale, 226 
wapentake, 18, 240 
rural deans of, see Engelram, 
Helmsley, Theoderic 
ruri-decanal chapter, 217 
Man de; 29 299. -238-41-: 
and see Bowforth, Ridale 
, Maud his wife, see Gervase 
Ryevallis. See Rievaulx 
Ryton (par. Kirby Misperton), Riton, 
15 


John de, 105 


St-André-en-Gouffern (Normandy, 
dept. Calvados, cant. 
Falaise), abbey, 25x 
St. Andrews, bishop of, 65, 69 
St. Cuthbert, miracles of, 13 
St-Evroul (Normandy, dept. Orne), 
abbey, 12,71 
abbot of, see Robert 
St-Georges-de-Boscherville (Nor- 
mandy, dept. Seine-Inf.), 
abbey, 49 
St. John of Beverley, miracles of, 5 
St. Neots (co. Huntingdon), prior of, 
132, 133” 
St-Nicholas-des-Laitiers (Normandy, 
dept. Orne, arr. Argentan, 
cant. La _ Ferté-Fresnel), 
church, 71 
St-Omer (France, dept. 
Calais), 238 
St-Pierre-sur-Dive (Normandy, dept. 
Calvados, arr. Lisieux), 2 
St. Quintin, family, 32, 33x 
——, of Harpham, 32 
Sir Alexander de, 32, 33x 
Anselm de, 32 
Geoffrey de, 32 
Herbert I de, 29, 30, 32, 134 
—-—, Agnes his wife, see Stute- 
ville (Roger) 
Herbert Ii-de; 31-2 
Herbert III de, 32 
William de, 33 
, Maud his wife, see Coleville 
St. Robert of Knaresborough, 12n 


Pas-de- 


286 STUTEVILLE FEE 


St-Romain (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
mnt. are Ae / Havre), 
churches in canton of, 48 

St. Wilfred’s spring, 149-50 

Ste-Barbe : 

William de, 69 

William de, dean of York, 
bishop of Durham, 201-2, 
204-6, 248 

Sait’. See Seaton 

Salcoke. See Sawcock 

Saleby, Thomas de, 79” 

= —, Grace his dawt., witée of 
Brian de Insula, 78”, 79” 
Salisbury, Sarisbyr’ : 
bishop of, see Jocelin 
earls of, 49” ; and see William 
Salisbury, Salesburia, de Salesberiis : 
Edward of, sheriff of Wiltshire, 
49n, 51n 
Edward, Evrard of, the 
younger, 42, 49-51, 53 
——,Maud his mother, 50-1 
———., Adeliz his wife, see Rames 
——, Leonia his dau. (Leonia de 
Rames), wife of Robert 
d’Estouteville, v, vi, 42-3, 
48-56, 65 

—-, , her seal, 5ln 

Saltby (co. Leicester), manor, 15x” 

Salter, H. E., 249 

Salton, prebend of, 220 

‘Samella’ (Normandy), 25x 

Samuel, mag., the scribe, 167 

Sancta Columba, Ralph de, canon of 
York, 172-3 

Sancto Georgio, Ralph de, abp’s 
clerk, 214 

Sancto Laurentio, de. See Revesby 

Sancto Martino : 

Elias de, 204-5 
Roger de, 109, 222 

Sancto Michaele, Robert de, 125 

Sancto Oswaldo, de. See Nostell, 
Oswaldkirk 

Sancto Petro : 

Geoffrey de, 107 
Thomas de, 97 
Sancton, Santon : 
Alexander de, 193 
John de, 130 
Peter de, 130 

Sanctus Felix. See Felixkirk 

Sarisbyr’. See Salisbury 

Sauerby, Saureby, -bi. See Sowerby 

Savaric, abbot of St. Mary’s York, 
87-8 

Savoy, Bernard of, 57 

Sawcock, Salcoke, William de, 129 

Saxby (co. Lincoln), Saxebi, 115-6 

Say, family, vi 

Hugh de, 36 
——, Margery his dau., wife of 


Say—continued 
Hugh de Ferrers, Robert 
de Mortimer and William 
de Stuteville, viii, 36 
Robert I de, 42, 47-8, 56 
———, Alice his wife, see Estoute- 
ville (William) 
Robert II de, 47, 59 
Sir William de, 48 
Scalis, William de, 101, 109 
Scampston (par. Rillington), 32x 
Scarborough, 94, 199 
burgesses of, 6 
Scawton, 223 
Scheldeford. See Shelford 
Scheperlage, 148-9 
Schipnum, Scip-. See Skiplam 
Schipwith, Scip-. See Skipwith 
Schiraburna, Scira-. See Sherburn 
Scoteny, -i: 
Agnes de, wife of Nicholas de 
Basing, 15 
Helena de, 136 
William de, 136 
Scotland : 
kings of, see Alexander, Baliol, 
David, Malcolm, William 
chamberlain of, see Valognes 
and see Bannockburn, Canobie, 


Dunkeld, Edinburgh, 
Galloway, Jedburgh, 
Orkney, Roxburgh, St. 
Andrews 


Scots, the, 5, 10 
Scrayingham, 1, 17, 22n, 66-7, 74, 
78-80, 82, 84, 178 
manor, 21, 67, 73-4, 108, 174 
church, 19, 74” 
advowson, 78 
vicarage, 19 
Sculcoates (Hull), -cotes, -ecotis, 
Scoullecotes, 79, 141 
Benedict de, 12, 102-4, 106, 
108-9, 133, 203 
ocurs, Roger de, 209 
Seaton (Rutland), Sait’, rector of, 
and rural dean. See W. 
Selby abbey, Sele-, 138-9 
abbot of, 185” 
infirmarer, 139 
Seliflat, 94 
Sempringham (co. Lincoln), priory, 
1877 
order of, 206 
, prior of, see G. 
Serlo, 193 
canon of York, 172-3,°233,'235 
Gerold (son of), canon of York, 
98, 233, 235 
Seven, Syvene, river, 126, 196 
Shap abbey (Westmorland), 112 
Shaw (Berkshire), 70, 72” 
Shelford, Schelde-, John de, 127 


INDEX OF “PERSONS AND PLACES 287 


Sherburn CEES), Schiraburna, 
Schire-, Scira-, Skireburn’ 
in Hauerfordlid, Syreburna, 
74, 79, 120, 170-3, 177-8 
manor, 171 
mills, 171-2 
church, 170-2, 178n 
advowson, 171 
Sherwood forest, 59x 
Shipwick. See Skipwith 


Shoreham (Sussex), bailiffs and 


barons of, 59n 
Sibyl, prioress of Keldholme, 93 
Sicklinghall, -lingehale, Robert de, 


105 
Sigillo, Simon de, canon of York, 
98, 233, 235 


Silver, Luke, 134 
Silverston (co. Northampton), 4, 11 
Silvester, the priest, 244 
Simon : 
archdeacon of Wells, 114 
canon of Beverley, 99,193 
the chamberlain, 208 
dean of York, 201 
, his chaplains, see Hugh, 
Richard 
earl of Northampton, 26 
the priest of Warllei, 131 
son of Richard, 242 
Sine munde, Warin, 228 
Sinnington, Siveling-, 95 
Sitwell, Sir George, vi, 41n, 62n 
Siward, 193 
Skaife, R. H., 160 
Skelton, Robert son of Ralph de, 190 
Skerne, Skirna, Skyr-, Skyren, 19, 
74n, 191-5 
manors, 74 
grange, 194 
Skidby (par. Cottingham), chapel, 68 
Skiplam (par. Kirkdale), Schipnum, 
Scip-, ‘Skipe=, 225, 227, 
231-2, 245 
grange, 228, 230 
Skipwith, -wic, -wik, -wit, -wyth, 
Schip-, Scip-, Ship-, 79, 
89, 135-9 
manor, 74, 137 
church, 74n, 88-9, 136 
family, viii, 137, 138” 
Geoffrey de, 138 
Gerald de, 138 
John de, 79, 136 
John de, younger, 137 
Patrick de, viii, 138” 
——, Beatrix his wife, see 
Langton 
Reginald de, 138 
Sir Thomas, 137 
Sir William (de), kg’s justice, 
vii, 137, 138% 
William de, 106 


Skipwith—continued 
William de, younger, 137 
William son of Osbert de, 
137-8, 158 
William son of Sir William, 137 
Skirpenbeck, 19 
Sleightholme Dale, 234 
Sleights (par. Kirkby Moorside), 
Slectes, 91, 232, 234 
Sleningford (par. Ripon), 33 
Slingsby, 79, 80, 183, 184” 
fee, 183-4 
church, 183-4 
Sloothby (co. Lincoln), 72 
Smalesikes, 126 
Smeaton, Smedtona, Gikel de, 223-4 
Snainton (wap. Pickering Lythe), 147 
Snape, Snappe, John de, 146 
Soiles, William de, 133 
Solis. See Sules 
Solum : 
Hugh, 127 
William de, 125 
»omerby (co. Leicester), 25 
church, 25 
Somerset, sheriff of, 43 
and see Norton, Wells 
Somerville, family, 31, 32n 
Robert de, 31 
, Isabel his wife, see Merlay 
Roger de, 31 
, Joan his niece, wile of 
Rees ap Griffith, 32 
Sotwame, Sotavagina, Sote-, Sotta- 
wagina : 
Arnulf, canon of York, 216, 233, 
235 
Thomas, canon of York, 172-3, 
233 
Thomas, the priest, 235 
Sowerby (par. Thirsk), 19” 
Sowerby [?], Sauer-, Saureby, -bi, 


Walter de, steward of 
Nicholas de Stuteville II, 
19, 124 

Spam, 71 


and see Henry IL 
Spaunton (par. Lastingham), Span-, 
=tum, 19, 88-219) 221 
hall of, 87 
Spelcros, 228 
Spital Bridge (Whitby), 210 
Sproxton, -tun : 
Richard de, 230, 243 
Robert de, 151, 239 
Simon de, 243 
Walter de, 242 
Staffordshire. See Wichnor 
Stainby, Stiandebi, WJilliam] de, 
canon of York, 201 
Staingrif. See Stonegrave 
Stallingborough (Ee: Lincoln), 
Stalingburn’, 115-6 


288 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Stamford (co. Lincoln), 15 
Stamford Bridge, Pons Belli, William 
the chaplain of, 129 
Stanton, Hervey de, ke’s ‘clerk, 
63-4 
Stapleton, Stapil-, Roger de, deputy- 
sheriff of Yorkshire, 129, 
159 
Staveley, -le, -leia, Adam de, 103-4, 
106, 109, 203 
Staverton (co. Northampton), 77, 
79,81 
Staxton (par. Willerby), 175-7 
Steeping, Little (co. Lincoln), 196 
Steingrif. See Stonegrave 
Stenton, Sir Frank, 5ln, 187n 
Stephen, 182 
king, 5, 89, 119, 205 
abbot of St. Mary’s York, 84, 
219 
mag., archdeacon of Bucking- 
ham, 110 
chaplain of William de Warenne, 
33n 
mag., clerk of kg’s scriptorium, 
169 
count of Aumale, 29x 
, Agnes .dau.. of, wite-.o1 
Adam de Brus, 28 
the dean, 216 
the knight [?] of William de 
Stuteville, 100 
son of Gilbert, 124 
mag. Robert son of, 96 
Stiandebi. See Stainby 
Stillingfleet, 35-7, 79, 142, 185 
manor, 74 
fee, 185 
Stillington, prebend of, 243 
Stir, 232 
Stixwould (co. Lincoln), 20n 
Stocking (par. Kilburn), 104, 223 
Stocksfield (Northumberland), 64 
Stodfald, -e, Stode-, 91, 232 
Stokesley, manor, 95 
Stonegrave, Staingrif, -griva, Staine-, 
Stein-, Steine- : 
Henry de, 167, 239 
John de, the [rural] dean, 227 
Rainald de, 167 
Robert de, 239, 241-2 
Simon de, 105, 239, 241-3 
William de, 150, 233, 239-40 
Stratfield Saye (Hampshire), Strat- 
field Stuteville, Estrafled, 
Estred-, Stratfeld’, vi, 1, 
35n, 41-3, 47-8, 56, 70, 72 
manor, 59 
church, 44, 47 
hermitage of St. Leonard on 
the Loddon, vi, 44, 47-8 
, hermit, see Godard 
monks of, 48 


Stutekelde (lost, nr. Boltby), -chelde, 
166 
Walter de, 166 
Stuteuileton’ (? Northumberland), 
13n 
Stuteville, -vile, -vylla, -will’, Estote- 
ville, Estute-, Estutte-, 
Stotevilla, -vyle, Stulta 
villa, Stutavill’, Stutteville : 
families, 1-70, 72-3, 76-7, 1387 
family of Gt. Ayton and Hem- 
lington, 8, 37-40, 127 
—— of Cottingham, 40, 68” 
of Cowesby and Gressen- 
hall, 7, 34-7, 84, 142 
of Warwickshire, 4, 23-7, 
84 
—— of Weston Colville and 
Burton Agnes, vii, 4, 27-34, 


84, 133 

Anselm de, 27-30, 32-4, 107, 
133-4, 138” 

Bartholomew de, 14, 68, 91, 
103-4 


Edmund de, 68 

Eustace de, son of Robert III, 
7, 19, 20s 40;.66, 104-5, 
109, 119”, 125, 138”, 140n, 
158, 203 

Eustace de, son of Robert V, 

16-19, 21-2, 125-8, 158; 

196-7 

, Nichola his wife, 18 

Eustace de (of Scotland), 68 

Geofirey de, Z, 68, 119; 1782 

Geoffrey de, younger, 68, 213 

Geoffrey de (of Thwing), 68 

, Margaret his wife, 68” 

Graulfus de, 2 

Henry de, 30 

, Agnes his dau., 30 

Joan de (Liber Vitae) ; and see 
Stuteville (Nicholas IT) 

John de (of Warwickshire), 
Vili, 4;- 23-7; 83, 94, 97; 
131-3, 208 

——, Agnes his wife, 23-4, 26 

, his seal, 131 

John de, rector of Howell, 40 

John son of John de, 24-6, 27x, 
131 

John son of Osmund de, 35 

, A. his wife, see Richard I 

John {?] son-of Robert de 
(of Ayton), 39, 40x 

Nicholas I de, vii, 7, 13-19, 25, 
43n, 46u, 47n, 65n, 66-8, 76, 
So, 88,91; 1022 PS, 
122-3, 126, 128-9, 135-6, 
138”, 181, 183, 187, 188n, 
191, 195-7, 208 

—, Gunnora his wife, see 
Aubigny 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 289 


Stuteville—continued 


Nicholas II de, 7, 14m, 15-22, 
40, 47n, 68, 77, 119”, 124, 
128-30, 153, 155, 163,188, 
191, 196 

——, Dervorguilla his wife, see 
Galloway 

——, Joan his dau., wife of 
Hugh Wake and Hugh 
Bigod,. vil, bc 15, 16, 18, 
20-3, 69, 77-8, 82, 117, 
125, 130-1, 136, 159, .164, 
176, 178, 184, 188, 195-6 

; , her seal with arms, 
ims 22. 050 

——, Margaret his dau., wife 
of William de Mastac, 20-2 

————, his Serjeant, see Benedict 

, his steward, see Sowerby 

Nicholas de, steward of Peter de 

Brus III, 68 

Nicholas son of Robert de, 40 

Nicholas [?] son of Robert de 

(of Ayton), 39, 127-9, 227 

Nicholas son of Robert de 
(of Cottingham), 40 

Osmund de, rector of Cot- 
tingham, 68-9 

Osmund [?] son of Osmund de, 
a0 


Osmund de (of Weston Colville), 
[?] son of Robert II, vii, 
27-8, 33 

Osmund de (of Cowesby), son 

of Robert. LE. vii, viii, 7, 

27-8, 34-6, 37n, 96, 135, 

142-3 

, Lsabel his wife, see Wimar 

Osmund son of William de, 36 

Patrick de [? non-existent], 137, 
1387 

Reginald de, 106 

Richard de, 69 

Robert’ | de, Grundebeof, v, 
xy 1,. 2, 5, 20; 48, 433565, 
67-8, 70, 72-3, 74n, 75-6, 
80, 84-8, 90, 98, 116, 118-9, 
135-6, 140-1, 170, 178-80, 
185-6, 200, 206 

——, Beatrix his wife, 2 

— —, Emma his dau., wife of 
Robert de Grentemaisnil, 2 

Robert II de, vii, viii, 1, 2-5, 
8n, 23-4, 27, 34, 41, 66, 72n, 
90, 1389” 

——, Erneburga his wife, viii, 
2, &, 3, 23-4,.27,. 4k, 66-7, 
90 

——, Burga, Burgia [?] his dau., 
wife of William Pantulf, 
5, 24-7, 72n 

——., his dau., wife of Robert 
de Daiville, 5, 97 


Stuteville—continued 


Robert III de, sheriff of York- 
shire, kg’s justice, vii-ix, 
xi, 2, 3, 4x, 5-8, 11m, 18, 
14, 23-5, 28, 34-5, 37, 41, 
43, 46n, 54, 65-8, 73-6, 80-1, 
83-4, 86-105, 116-8, 128, 
131-2, 135-7, 140-2, 146, 
148-9, 152, 160, 163, 165-8, 
170-2, 174-5, 178-81, 185-7, 
192, 196: 200. 207-8, 212 
218, 222, 227-8, 234, 246 

——., Helewise his wife, 70, 90, 
96, 165-6 

——, Burga, Burgia his dau., 
wife of William de Vescy, 
vill, 8, 27, 66n, 94, 178-9 

——., Helewise his dau., wife of 
William de Lancaster, 
Hugh de Moreville and 
William son of Ranulf, 8, 9 

———, Hawise his niece, wife of 
Adam Fossard, 96-7, 153 

——, his serjeant, see Godfrey 

, his seal, 167-8 

Robert [IV de, son of William, 
Gy, 12. 13, 76; -120-3 

Robert V de, son of Nicholas I, 

vil, 14-17, 18, 124-7, 196-7 

, Sibyl his wife, see Valognes 

Robert de (of Ayton), 37-9, 
68, 177 

—, Emma his dau., see 
Malebisse 

——, Mabel [?] his dau., wife of 
Richard de Bossall, 38m, 
176-7 

Robert de (of Cottingham), 
40, 130 

Robert de (of Cottingham), 
the elder, 40 

——, Margaret his wife, 40 

——, Isabel his dau., wife of 
Hugh Wake, 40 

——, Lora his dau., 40 

——., Milicent his dau., wife of 
John de Momby, 40 

Robert de (of Cottingham), 
the younger, 40 

Robert de (of Pocklington), 69 

mag. Robert de, dean of Dun- 
keld, 69 

Robert de, valet of foam lady 
Wake, 69 

Robert son of Eustace de, 7, 
20, 40 

Robert de, son of Robert III, 
7, 8, 37, 104-5, 109, 203 

Robert son of Robert de (of 
Ayton), 38-9, 40, 127-9, 
Sapa | 

——, his wife (lady of Hemling- 
tom) .395 78 


29() STUTEVILLE FEE 


Stuteville—continued 

Robert son of William de (of 
Cowesby), viii, 36-7, 62n, 
142, 145 

——, Joan his wife, viii, 36-7, 
62n 

Roger de (Liber Vitae), 2n 

Roger de, sheriff of Northumber- 
land, 3, 4, 32”, 91-2, 99 

Roger de (of Weston Colville), 
27-8, 29n, 30, 32n, 33, 133 

——, Agnes his dau., wife of 
Herbert. ‘de’ St. - Quimtin, 
29, 30, 32-3, 134 

———, Alice his dau., wife of 
Roger de Merlay, 29-31, 
33, 133-4 

———, Beatrice his dau., wife of 
Bartholomew de _ Bussey 
and William de Coleville, 
32-3 

——, Gundreda his dau., wife 
of [?] John de Basingham, 
Zo, 33 


; , Agnes her dau., wife 
of Robert de Basingham 
and William son of Warin, 
29, 33-4 

a, , Rohese her dau., 
wife of Robert de Tates- 
hall and Robert de Lisle,. 
29, 33-4 

a, [sabel his’ ‘dau., wite of 
Robert de Cramaville, 29, 
30, 32-3, 133-4 

Roger som of’ John de (Gi 
Warwickshire), 24-6, 27n, 
131 

Simon de, 30, 80x 

William de (Liber Vitae), 2n 

William de, sheriff of Yorkshire 
etc., Kes qustice, vii, 1, 
4, 6, 7, 8n, 9-14, 23, 34-5, 
37, 38n, 40, 43, 68, 76, 83- 
4, 90-1, 93-5, 97-8, 100-23, 
128, 131, 133, 138, 148, 
153, 155-6, 163, 169, 174-5, 
180, 186, 189-90, 199n, 
201, 203, 207-8, 218, 248-9 

——, Berta his wife, see Glan- 
ville 

——. his steward, see Topcliffe 

, his seal, 104, 106 

William de (of Ayton), 39 

William de, rector of Bossall, 
176 

William son of Osmund de (of 

Cowesby and _ Richard’s 

Castle), sheriff of Yorkshire, 

Vii, Vili, 35-6, 777, 142, 

145 

, Margery his wife, see Say 

William de, son of Robert I, 2 


Stuteville—continued 
William de, son of Robert LI, 
3, 5, 84n, 99, 100, 223, 246 
—, Emma his wife, 3, 99, 100 
, stephen [?] his knight, 100 
and see Estouteville 
Suar, parvus, 90 
Suauedala, 90 
Suffolk, 4, 35”, 59 
earl of, see Ufford 
and see Campsey 
Suinegarth, 245 
Sules, Solis, Ranulf de, butler of kg 
Malcolm, 198 
, Ranulf his nephew, 198 
Sunley Hill (in Welburn), Sunnolu- 
chou, 245 
Surdeval, -valle, -vals : 
Alan de, 225”, 226 
John de, 192 
Peter de, 217; 224, 230;- 239, 
241, 243 
Peter son of Peter de, 230 
Ralph de, 68, 150-1, 226 
Ralph son of William de, 230 
Richard de, 180-1, 183 
, Maud his dau., wife of 
Ralph Paynel, 181 
Robert de, 224-6, 242-3 
, heirs of, 225-6 
William de, 217, 230 
Surrey, earls of. See Warenne 
and see Bermondsey, Guildford, 
Lambeth 
Sussex, 77, 79, 80n, 81, 83 
and see Arundel, Hastings, 
Lewes, Shoreham 
Suterit, William, 124 
Suthenge, 146 
sutton:: 
Juliana de, wife of William 
Willoughby, 225-6 
William de, 188 
——, Roese his wife, see Hessle 
Sutton by Stamford Bridge, juxta 
Pontem Belli, -ona, 65, 
76, 86-7, 139-40 
Sutton under Whitestone Cliffe 
(par. Felixkirk), juxta 
Sanctum Felicem, -tun, 
96-7, 152-5, 157-9, 208 
manor, 74, 152, 155, 157 
mill, 74n, 153 
vavasaria of, 153, 155 
Paen de, 97 
Swain, Swein : 
the baker, 97 
mag., 237, 248n 
of St: Peter's ‘hospital, 
237 
Richard son of, 232 
Swaledale, 110-2 
and see Healaugh 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 291 


Swanland (par. North Ferriby), 
82, 174 
Swine, -a: 
John de, 127 
mag. Robert de, 242 
Swinton, Geoffrey bro. of William 
de, 243 
Syreburna. See Sherburn 
Sysonby (co. Leicester), 77, 80-1 
syvene. See seven 


Takel : 
Adam, 127 
John, 79 


Nicholas, 127 
Talbot, Tale-, family, 627 
John, 62n 
William, 37, 58x, 62n 
, oar his “dau.,’ wite “or 
[?] Robert d’Estouteville, 
vill, 37, 42, 43n, 59, 62-3 
Talum, family, 133 
Robert, 29, 133 
Tankard son of Acer, 166 
Tanton, Tamtona, William de, 226 
Tany, Tani, Hasculf de, 50 
, Maud his wife, 50-1 
———, Graaland, Graelenc, 
-lengus, his son, 50 
Tateman, Gilbert, 97 
Tateshall, -hale, family, viii 
Robert de, 29, 33-4 
——, Rohese his wife, see 
Stuteville (Roger) 
Walter son of Robert de, 24, 27 
, Isolda his wife, see Pantulf 
, Robert his son, 27n 
Tecio, 230 
Templars, the, 68, 146, 157, 163m, 
183, 192” 
master of, 157, 163, 192 
Tenerchebrai. See Tinchebrai 
Terrington, 186 
Terry, Tirri, William son of, 219-20 
Tetford (co. Lincoln), 187-8 
Theobald, Thebbald, 172 
the clerk of bp of Durham, 233 
Theoderic, Theodric, 193 
the priest and [rural] dean [of 
Ryedale], 229 
Theuesdalebek, 155 
. Thiergeville (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Inf.), 54 
Thirkleby (N.R.), 130 
Thirlby (par. Felixkirk), Trillebi, -a, 
74n, 79, 154, 160, 163-8 
Thirn [2 error], 30n 
Thirnum. See Thornholme 
Thirsk, Thresc, -k, Tresc, -ch, -k, 19, 
115, 117-8, 200, 245 
manor, 75, 80 
castle, 119, 200 
‘Mowbray court at, 246-7 


‘Thirsk—continued 


mill, 181-3 
church, 201-2 
advowson, 86 
Peter de, 203, 233 


Tholthorpe (par. Alne), 79, 184 


fee, 184 
church, 184 


Thomas: 


abbot of Meaux, 102 
II, archbishop of York, 85 
the clerk, 96 
nephew of the prior, 208 
son of Fulk, 172 
son of Paulinus, canon of York, 
233, 235, 243 
son of Thomas, 182-3 
son of Wale, 133 
son of William (of Greystoke), 9 
Thoneia. See Toeni 
Thorbrand, 205 
Thoreni, Toreni, Torni, Bartholomew 
de, 239, 241-2 
Thornaby (par. Stainton), 78 
Thornbrough (par. S. Kilvington), 
Thorneberge, Torneberc, 79, 
106, 174, 180 
Adam de, 182-3 
Ralph de, 182-3 
Thorney abbey (co. Cambridge), 
-eila, 23n, 26, 132 
abbot of, 132; and see Gilbert 
Liber Vitae of, 23, 133 
Thorngate, prebend of. See Lincoln 
Thornholme (par. Burton Agnes), 
Thirnum, “Virhn’, “Diem, 
29-32, 133-4 
mill, 30-1 
Thornholme priory (co. Lincoln), 


prior of, 188 
Thornton, Thornetona, Torentun, 
‘Torton’ : 
Hugh son of Arthur de, 154 
William de, 241 
Thornton (? wap. Harthill), Toren- 
ton’, mill, 94-5 
Thoroton, Robert, 647 
Thorp in Lindsey. 
Thorpe 
Thorpe, Torp, family, 137 
Geoffrey de, 136 
Ingeler de, 208 
John de, 137 
Richard de, 137 
William de, 136 
Thrussington (co. Leicester), 77, 81, 
83 
Thuit, Le (Normandy, dept. Eure, 
arr. and cant. Les Andelys), 
227 
Thurkil, Alan son of, 104, 203 
Thurktllesti, 231 


See Kettleby 


292, STUTEVILLE FEE 


Thurstan, archbishop of York, 5, 
65, 89, 204-5, 220 

Thwaite by Aylsham (Norfolk), 227 
Thweng : 

Marmaduke de, 31 

Robert de, 3ln 

——, Lucy his dau., 3ln 
Thwing, 68 

advowson of moiety, 68 
Tickhill, Tika-, Tikehil, 10 

honour of, x, 56 
, lady of, see Henry count of 
Eu 
Roger de, abbot of Roche, 242 
William de, 212-3, 233 


Tilehouse bridge (nr. Kirkby Moor- 


side), 212 
Tinchebrai (Normandy), Tener- 
chebrai, battle of, v, 1, 2,116 
Tindale, family, 164 
Adam de, 162-4 
, Joan his wife, 164 
——, Isabel his dau., wife of 
Walter de Tunstall, 164 
-——, Philippa his dau., wife of 
Nicholas de Boltby, 162-4 
Tirmin, Tirhn’. See Thornholme 
Tiron (France, dept. Eure-et-Loire), 
abbey, 71n 
Pir. See Derry 
Tison, Gilbert, 187, 191 
Tecka:: 
Richard son of, 172 
Walter son of, 172 
Toeni, Thoneia, Berenger de, 219 
Tonge (co. Leicester), Tunga, 25 
mill, 25x “ 
Topclifte, castle, 9 
Roger de, steward of William de 
Stuteville, 11 
Torbernus. See Turbernus 
Torcy-le-Petit (Normandy, dept. 


Seine-Inf., arr. Dieppe, cant. 


Longueville), 55” 
mill, 55x” 
Toreni, Torni. See Thoreni 
Torentun, -onton. See Thornton 
Torigny, -ingni, Geoffrey de, 209 
Torneberc. See Thornbrough 
Terp. See Thorpe 
‘Torp’ (in Etton), manor, 74, 191 
Torpel, Roger de, 53 
Torpenhow (Cumberland), -hou, 16, 
125 
manor, 17, 125 
mill, 125 
church, 17, 125-6 
Torpenno, Lambert de, 243 
Tosti, William son of, canon of York, 
96, 172-3 
Tétes (Normandy, dept. Seine-Inf.), 
canton, 71 
Tours (Touraine), 29, 54n 


Traili, Treili, Trelli : 
Gervase de, 108 
Nicholas de, canon of York, 
230, 233, 235 
Tranby (par. Hessle), Trane-, 16n, 
188, 190-1 
manor, 188 
Adam de, 78, 186, 188, 191 
Alan de, 188 
Henry de, 188, 191 
, Roese his wife, see Hessle 
Ingalin de, 188 
John de, 188 
Tyvancker, 144-5 
Travers, Robert, 243 
Tresc, Tresk. See Thirsk 
Trillebi. See Thirlby 
Trumpinton, Robert de, 127 
Trussebut, family, 185 
Hilaria, 53 
Robert, 185 
William, 52 
,- Aarbreye «his: «wate; see 
Harcourt 
Trussevilain, Walkelin, 241-2 
Tuit,. Pulst, gamily. 95, 227 
Hugh del, de, 92, 94-5, 226-7 
Tung [in error], 25n 
Tunga. See Tonge 
TFunge, -a, 91, 232 
Tunstall, Walter son of William de, 
164 
— —, Isabel his wife, see Tindale 
Tunstall (in Nunthorpe, par. Gt. 
Ayton), 38n 
manor, 38 
Turbernus, Tor-, 189-90 
Turcople, -copula, [Tur]cup!’, Geof- 
frey, archdeacon of Not- 
tingham, 204-5 
Turgis, William son of, 195x 
and see Brundos 
Turgisilus, John son of, 216 
Tusculum, -anum, 218-9 
Tyne, fisheries in, 64 


Uctred, Hutred : 

son of Ulf, 198 

Rolland son of, see Galloway 
Ufford, Robert de, earl of Suffolk, 


65 
Ugthorpe (par. Lythe), Ugathorp, 
Ugge-, 170-2 


Uiro [or Luro], Odo son of, 166 

Ulf, Hulf, Uctred son of, 198 

Ulkil, the forester, 166 

Ulrome, Vlram, Ralph de, 133 

Uluestun, ... de, 208 

Upleatham, Uppelithum, Peter de, 
190 


Upsall (par. S. Kilvington), -sale, 
Uppesall’, -shall’, 79, 106, 
154-6, 180-1, 183 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 293 


Upsall—continued 
manor, 181 


‘fee, 180-3 

family, 181 

Arnold de, 106, 129, 154-6, 
169, 180-3 

——, Juhana his wife, see 
Fossard 


———, his armorial seal, 156 
Geoffrey de, 79, 174, 180-1 
Geoffrey de, younger, 180 
Hugh de, 129, 159, 180-1 
Ralph de, 106, 180 

Urban III, pope, 249 


Vacarius, mag., 241 
Vado, de. See Wath 
Valence : 
Aymer de, earl of Pembroke, 63 
William de, 62x 
Valmont (Normandy, dept. Seine- 
Inf., arr. Yvetot), v, vi, viii, 
in, 3, 7; .25n, 29n, 41-3, 
47-8, 50, 52, 54, 60x, 62n, 
63, 65, 72 
honour of, 43 
castle, 41n, 54 
fairs, 54 
mills, 44 
archives de, 41” 
abbey, vii, 3, 29, 4In, 42, 44-8, 
49n, 54-5, 57, 59, 62n 
—, abbot of, 46, 47n, 49n 
canton, 44 
Valognes, de Valoniis, family, 125x 
Philip de, chamberlain of Scot- 
land, 7: 16, 425 
——, Sibyl his dau., wife of 
Robert de Stuteville [V], 
vii, 16, 17, 125-6, 196-7 
Sibyl de, wife of Robert de Ros, 
Wiliam de Percy and 
Ralph d’Aubigny, 16” 
William de, 17 
Venoiz, Hasqui de, 105 
Verdun, Bertram de, ke’s justice, 
167, 169 
Vescy,.-1, Wesci, honour; x, 174 
family, 95 
pedigree, 8” 
fees, 120 
Eustace de, 8, 66, 83, 104-6, 
119-20, 178-9, 203 
Sir John de, 78-9, 170-1, 177-8 
William I de, viii, 7, 8, 27, 66, 
94, 97, 101, 120; 178-9, 189 
——, Burga his wife, see Stute- 
ville (Robert IIT) 
William II de, 120 
William III de, 80x, 141, 178 
—_—, Isabel his wife, 178 
William de (of Kildare), 178-9 
Victor, Robert son of, 241 


Vilers, Arnold de, 231, 233 

Vincent, 143 

Vipont, Robert, de, 9, 112 

, coheir of, wife of Roger de 
Clifford, 112 


W. the rural dean, rector of Seaton, 
132 
Wacelin, Geoffrey, 104 
Wagna. See Wawne 
Wake, Wack, barony, fee, vii, 137, 
184 
family, v, 21n, 76, 78, 79n, 80n, 
81-2, 183, 187, 191, 196 
Baldwin, 21” 
, Isobel his wife, see Briwere 
Baldwin son of Hugh, 16n, 
22-3, 37, 39, 78, 79x, 80, 
93H, 112, 119-20, 125-6, 
130, 136-7, 141-2, 146-8, 
LSZ, 160; 165, 170; 174. 
176n, 177-8, 180-1, 183-6, 


195 
Hugh, “£7, 18) -20-2> U7. 159; 
184n, 196 


——, Joan his wife, see Stuteville 
(Nicholas IT) 

Hugh, younger, 40 

, Isabel his wife, see Stute- 

ville. ..(Robert:. of  Cot- 

tingham) 

John, Lord, vii, 22-3, 69x, 80, 
82, 126, 178, 197 

——, Joan his wife, 69, [?] 807, 
[?] 148 


: , her valet, see 
Stuteville (Robert) 
——, Margaret his dau., wife of 
Edmund of Woodstock, 
23n, 8ln 
Nicholas, 78, 80 
Thomas, Lord, 40, 64-5, 80, 126, 
141, 148, 178 
Thomas, 81 
and see Holand 
Walda. See Wolds 
Wale, Thomas son of, 133 
Waleran, Walerand, 131-2 
Wales, princes of. See Edward 
army of, 57, 59, 60 
expedition to, 238 
scutage of, 83 
and see Kerry 
Walesand. See Wassand 
Walkarlagata, 233 
Walkingham, Alan son of John de, 
79, 162, 164-5 

——, Eve his wife, see Boltby 

—— , Adam his son, 162, 165 
Wallingford (Berkshire), 58 
Walter, 3n, 72, 167 

bishop of Chester, 131n 

the carpenter, 151 


294 STUTEVILLE FEE 


Walter—continued 
the chaplain of Malton, 193 
, William his nephew, 193 
[rural] dean of Bulmer, 217 
the priest, 231 
prior of Byland, 214, 233 
of Newburgh, 250 
the reeve of Etton, 193 
son of Alan, 198, 227 
son of Baldric, 71 
son of Carl, 159 
son of Faganulf, 216 
son of Richard, 100, 193 
son of Tocca, 172 
wife of, see Hugh son of Baldric 
William the baker, son of, 134 
Walter : 
Hubert, abp of Canterbury, kg’s 
chancellor,  t1,° 43, i324, 
121-2 
Theobald, 45 
Waltermeisnill’, Waltiermaisnil, 
Watermorhville, 115 
manor, 114-5 
Walterville, Geoffrey de, 52 
, Asceline his wife, see 
Peverel 
, his daughters, 52-3 
Waltheof, Gospatric son of, 220 
Walton (par. Kirkdale), Waletun, 75 


Wappenbury (co. Warwick), -byr’, 


Wapenbiri, Wappebury, 
Woppenbiri, 77, 80-1, 83 
family, 120” 
Richard de, 83, 119 
Thomas de, 119 
Paoemas. de, younger, 77, 79, 
120 
Wardley (Rutland), Warllei, Simon 
the priest of, 131 
Wardon abbey (co. Bedford), 6 
Warenne, honour of, viii, 27, 33, 55” 
William de, Ist earl of Surrey, 


33-4, 46, 200 
——, Gundreda his wife, 46n, 
200 


==. -Baith is. daw., ~wate of 
Gerard de Gournay, 46n, 
200 
William de, 2nd earl, 33” 
——., his chaplain, see Stephen 
William de, 3rd earl, 55, 68 
———. Isabel isda, wile of 
ear] Hamelin, 55 
William de, 6th earl, 35, 53, 
55n, 567 
John de, 7th earl, 37, 61, 62n 
and see Hamelin 
Warin, 150 
abbot of Rievaulx, 209 
brother, 99 
William son of, see William 
Wark on Tweed (Northumberland), 3 


Wark on Tweed (Northumberland)— 
continued 
castle, 3n 
castellan of, 3 
honour of, 4 
Warllei. See Wardley 
Warnborough, South (Hampshire), 
73 
Warrum. See Wharram 
Warwick, honour of, 133 
earl of, 132, 136”; and see 
Henry 
Warwickshire, viii, 4, 5, 7, 10, 23, 
25-6 76-9, 83-4, 120 
sheriff of, 19 
and see Brinklow, Combe, Comp- 
ton Verney, Cosford, 
Eathorpe, Hampton, Hen- 
ley, Lawford, Monks 
Kirby, Newbold-on-Avon, 
Newbold Revel, Prince- 
thorpe, Wappenbury 
Wascelin, William, 208 
Wassand, Wale-, Wau-, -sant, -santh, 
Wassham, Waxand, -ant: 
Alan de, 68, 127-9, 227 
Richer de, 194, “169, ~ 162-3; 
239, 242 
William de, 239 
Watermor, 211 
Waters, R. E. Chester, 49n, 51x 
Wath, de Vado: 
Ralph dé, 150,. 211; 258, 230, 
242-3 
Robert de, 150, 218, 230, 242-3 
William de, 146 
Watton, -tun : 
Richard the priest of, 193 
Walter the reeve of, 193 
priory, 22, -130, 136; 188, 191, 
193 
——., prior of, 16”, 193 
‘ ; iis court, 130 
Wauldby (par. Elloughton), 19 
Wawne, Wagna : 
rector of, see Roger 
Gerard, Gervase and Richard 
de, 242 
Weaverthorpe, Wiuertorp, manor, 
170 
Walter de, 208 
Weighton, Little (par. Rowley), 
Widetone, Witton, 66, 78-9, 
82, 135-7, 140-1 
manor, 74, 80, 140 


mills, 74n 
Welbeck abbey (co. Nottingham), 

50, 63 
Welburn (par. Kirkdale), Wella-, 
Welle-,  -brona,  -broun, 


-bruna, -brunna, ix, 75,— 
90-1, 115, 117-8, 212, 220. 
224-5, 228-45 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 295 


Welburn (par. Kirkdale)—continued 
Grange, 234 
‘ church, 201-2, 236-7, 244; and 
see Kirkdale 
Engelram the priest of, 211, 218, 
231, 240 
Adam de, 77 
Roger de, 772.79.81 
Welby (co. Leicester), 77, 80-1 
Welles, Hugh de, 126 
Wells, archdeacon of. See Simon 
Welton (co. Northampton), Whel-, 
Wywel-, 77, 79, 81 
and see Whoelton 
Wendhng abbey (Norfolk), 36 
Weng’. See Wing 
Weodestoca. See Woodstock 
Wesci. See Vescy 
Westminster, 4, 11, 19”, 44, 117 
Westmorland, -merailand, -meriland, 
ih 
sheriff of, 10 
forest of, 13, 120 
and see Appleby, Brough, Ken- 
dal, Marton, Milburn, Shap 
Weston Colville (co. Cambridge), 
Wai, ya, 4..27-8,. 33). 107, 
133 
chur¢h and advowson, 29, 32-3 
Westona, Westetan, 42, 48 
Westwich, 90 
Wetheral priory (Cumberland), 195 
Wetherby, 219 
Wexford, 11 
Wharram, Warrum, Adam de, 208 
Whelton. See Welton 
Whissendine (Rutland), 21 
Whitby, White-, Witebi, Wyte- : 
abbey, 6), 39 105,. 175; -184, 
204-5, 210-1, 220 
——., abbot of, 39, 210;-and see 
Percy 
——, monk of, see Aunay 
———, foundation memorial, 205 
St. Michael’s hospital, 209-10 
, master of, see Aunay 
——., priest of, see Godwin 
, foundation history, 210 
Whitelock, Miss D., 23 
Whitevilla. See Wyville 
Whitley (par. Kellington), chapel, 
249 


Whittlebury, Wittelburi, Gilbert de, 
80 

Whoelton [? Welton, g.v.], Eustace 
son of William de, 81 

Wibbehahge, 231 

Wichnor (co. Stafford), 31 

Widdrington, Sir T., 206 

Wide Open (im Skelton, ‘wap. 
Bulmer), 184 

Widetone. See Weighton 

Widevilla. See Wyville 


Wigerius. See Baldric, Bocquencé 
Wigot, Robert, 154 
Wilburgham (co. Cambridge), 131 
Wildecher, Stephen de, 166 
Wildfar’, William, 149 
Wildon (par. Coxwold), 75, 245-7 
grange, 247 
Great and Little, 245-7 
Wilghebi. See Willoughby 
Willerby, Willardeby, mag. Henry 
de, 134 
Willerby (wap. Dickering), 173, 248 
Ingenald son of Henry de, 173 
Willerby (par. Kirk Ella), 79, 82, 
141n, 188 
William : 
I, king, duke of Normandy, 
Bastardus, 41, 70-2, 89, 
116, 219 
LE kas, bi S7e 219 
the Lion, king of Scotland; 3, 
6, 13, 198-9 
abbot of Rievaulx [I], 166 
abbot of Rievaulx [IIT], 157 
archbishop of York, 5, 201-2 
archdeacon of Durham [T], 208 
, Hugh his brother, 208 
archdeacon of Durham [IJ], 153 
archdeacon of Nottingham, 201 
the baker, son of Walter, 134 
bishop of Durham, 89; and see 


Ste-Barbe 

brother of St. Peter’s hospital, 
150 

canon of Launde, 131 

the chamberlain, son of 


Alvredus, 232 

the chaplain, 190, 214 

of Stamford Bridge, 129 

the clerk of Cottingham, see 
Cottingham 

—— of Etton, 193 

— — of Kirkby [Moorside], 167, 

241 207, 240 

of Lastingham, 243 

count of Aumale, 5, 7 

the dispenser, 220 

earl of Arundel, 111 

earl of Salisbury, 114 

‘medicus’ (de Cardoil), Amabel 
dau. of, 14 

precentor of York, see Eu 

rector of Bossall, 68 

of Cottingham, see Cotting- 

ham 

the reeve, 105 

steward of Everard de Ros, 243 

son of the archbishop, 208 

son of Aldelin, ke’s justice, 
167, 169 

son of Aldon’, 101, 189 

son of Daniel, monk of St. 
Mary’s, 217 


296 STUTEVILLE FEE 


William—continued 
son of Drew, 167 
son of Duncan, 16x 
, Alice his wife, see Rumilly 
son of Elias, canon of Newburgh, 
249 
son of Engelram, 182-3, 208, 
239, 242-3, 246 
son. of Faulk: 125,°172 
son of Haldin, 189 
son of Herbert, 216 
son of Hugh, 101, 189 
son of Lambert, 14 
son of Ranulf (of Greystoke), 8, 
9 
——.,.  Helewise his wife, see 
Stuteville (Robert III) 
son of Temy “(the knight), 
219-20 
son of Tosti, canon of York, 
96, 172-3 
son of Turgis, 195” 
son of Warin, 29, 34 
, Agnes his wife, see Stute- 
ville (Roger) 
son of William, 225-6 
son of William son of Elias, 249 
Agnes daughter of, 163 
Hugh son of, 228 
Reginald son of, 216 
Robert son of, vice or sub- 
archdeacon, 217-8 
Thomas son of, (of Greystoke), 9 
Willoughby, Wilghebi, William, 226 
, Juliana his wife, see 
Sutton 
Wilson, Rev. James, 9n 
Wilson (co. Leicester), Wiveleston, 


mill, 25 
Wilton, -tune : 
John de, 125 


Laurence de, clerk, 190 
Wiltshire, 3x, 72, 249 

sheriff of, see Salisbury 

and see Clarendon, Ludgershall, 


Marden, Norton Ferris, 
Salisbury 

- Wimar the steward (of Richmond), 
lln, 34, 76n 


———, Isabel his heiress (Isabel 
de Gressenhall), wife of 
Osmund de Stuteville and 
William de Huntingfield, 
vili, 28n, 34-6 

Wimbelton. See Wombleton 
Winchester, 6, 11 
bishop of, 4 
earl of, see Quincy 
Windsor, 4, 6 
Wing (co. Buckingham), 62” 
Wing (Rutland), Weng’, 26, 132-3 
church and mill, 132 
Wintringham, 178 


Wirce, Geoffrey de, 23, 25%, 76, 98, 
118 


Wivesdale, Wivedale, 225, 228 

Wiske, river, 144 

Witebi. See Whitby 

Witefeld, Robert de, 249x 

Witham (? co. Lincoln), Asketin the 
priest of, 100 

Witheker, 158 

Witic, Everard de, 105 

Wittelburi. See Whittlebury 

Witton. See Weighton 

Wiuertorp. See Weaverthorpe 

Wiveleston. See Wilson 

Wivilla, Wit-, With-. See Wyville 


Wolds, The (par. Cottingham), 
Walda, 89 
Wolfreton (par. Kirk Ella), 78-9, 
82, 141n 
Wombleton (par. Kirkdale), 
Wimbel-, Wimbil-, 
Wimbletuna, 79, 91, 228-31, 
234, 243-4 
wood, 91 
chapel, 244 


Benedict de, 228, 231 
Woodstock (co. Oxford), Weodes- 
toca, 4, 6, 11,85, 131” 
and see Edmund 
Woppenbiri. See Wappenbury 
Worcester, archdeacon of. See John 
Wothersome (par. Bardsey), 214” 
Wrelton (par. Middleton), 80, 82, 
97n 
Roger de, 80 
Wroot (in Axholme, co. Lincoln), 
isle of, 119” 
Wulfyne, John, 151 
Wymbelthwayt, 92 
Wytebi.. See Whitby 
Wywelton. See Welton 
Wyville, Wivilla, Wide-, Wit-, With-, 
Wyth-, White-, Witvile, 
[?] Wynclyua, family, 184 
Ralph de, 205, 246 
Richard de, 150, 194, 213 
William de, steward of Roger de 
Mowbray, 205, 212, 231, 
233-5, 244 
William de, younger, 183 


Yarborough (co. Lincoln), Hundred 
Rolls for wapentake of, 187n, 
188 
Yauenwyth, Yeven, Yevewith. See 
Ravenswyke 
Yeddingham, 297, 30-1 
priory, 147 
York, Eboracum, 5, 6, 10°63, 36, 
96, 113-5,- 126;° 192,200, 
204, 239 
castle, 10” 113 
gaol, 20 


INDEX OF PERSONS AND PLACES 297 


York—continued 


mint of, 5 

weavers of city, 3, 6 

Fishergate, Fischergata, 205 

Foss bridge, 205 

St. Mary’s Tower, ix 

archbishop) ‘of; 20; 38, 170, 
184, 188, 206, 243, 246-7 

——, fee of, 33, .82n, 171n, 
191, 243 

——, clerks and minister of, 
see Roger (abp) 

——, and see Geoffrey, Gray, 
Murdac, Roger, Thomas, 
Thurstan, William 

archbishopric, 248-9 

, Officials of, 249 

archdeacon of, 217; and see 
Aunay, Butevilain 

cathedral church of .St. Peter, 
20%, 33, 201,292. 233 
=== archdeacons m, see Baro, 

Cleveland, Nottingham 

. Canons of, 10, 202, 249: 

and see Achard son of Alan, 

Alan, Arraz, Condet, 

Erard, Gerold son of Serlo, 

Gilbert son of Fulk, Greg- 

ory, John son of Letold, 

Laurence, Mala _ palude, 

Nicholas son of Durand, 

Raineville, Romanus, 

Sancta. Columba, Serio, 

Sigillo, Sotwame, Stainby, 

Thomas son of Paulinus, 

Traili, William son of Tosti 

, chapter, 149, 171-2, 201-2, 

204-5, 206”, 212-3, 215-6, 

233, 235-6, 248-9 

——=, deans, see Butéevilam, 
Gant, Robert, Ste-Barbe, 


Simon 

———,. tmaster of the schools, 
see Robert 

——, prebends, see Salton, 
Stilington 


——., precentors, see Eu, Hamo 

——, precentorship, 108 

——, treasurers, see Hamo, 
John, Puiset 

——, vicar of precentor, see 

Hamo 

, vice or sub-archdeacon in, 

see Robert son of William 

church of St. Andrew, Andrew- 
gate, 206n 


York—continued 


church of St. Andrew, Fisher- 
gate, 75n, 205-6 

ot. Andrew's priory, 20, 107-8, 
206 

——, priors of, see Bartholomew, 
M., Robert 

St» Clement's» priory, 12. 182 

St: Mary's abbey; amr 1. 2.: 7, 
65, 75-6, 84, 86-8, 95, 105, 
119”, 139-40, 184, 219, 
Di ey 

——, abbot of, 9n, 14, 19, 88, 
92n, 93n, 219; and see 
Clement, Geoffrey, Robert, 
Savaric, Stephen 

——, monk of, see William son 
of Daniel 

——, precentor, see German 

——, prior, see Geoffrey 

——, sacristan, 87; and. see 
Godfrey 

St. .Péter’s or St. Leonard’s 
hospital; 17; - 127-8, ° 150; 
t75, £84, 19528; 250 

——, brethren and chaplains 
named, 150 

——, cellarers, see Gerard, 
Robert 

—-—, master; see Swain 

Holy Trinity priory, prior ‘of, 
see Philip 

Alan of, 109 

Ralph son of Paulinus of, 103 

William son of William of, 129 


Yorkshire, Eboracensira, -censis 


sciria, Euewicscira : 

army of, 6,-9 

barons of, 85 

castles in, 18 

county court, 17 

farm of, 113 

gift of ecclesiastical benefice 
in, 123-4 

sherifi of, 10, 18, 20-2, f13, 196, 
238-9 ; and see Bardolf, 
Bathonia, Bossall, Cumbe, 
Glanville, Hugh son of 
Baldric, Octon, Osbert, 
Stuteville (Robert 11, 
William) 

——., deputies, see Boby, Brito, 
Stapleton 

undertaking to go on abbey’s 
business in, 230 


Ysebec. See Islebeck 


SUBJECT 


Advocaius, of a priory cell, 207-8 
Affidation, affidatio in manu, 98, 
158, 182, 213; 216-7, 2383, 
235, 241 
Agriculture, corn of church given to 
Pope, 101 
digging of turves, 144 
Aid, for a tenant-in-chief’s judicial 
expenses, 115 
Altar, quitclaim offered on, 217 
quitclaim by laying knife on, 89 
Anathema, for breach of agreement, 


Animals : 

gifts of deer, 59” 

gifts of, for quitclaim, 216-7 

hounds for hunting wolf and 
hare, 4 

hunting rights, 90-1 

pasture for numbers specified, 
153, 167-8, 225 

pasture for beasts, sheep and 
pigs, 93-4 

plough-oxen, 168 

prices of cows, pigs, sheep, 


lambs, 12” 

prohibition against woodland 
mares, 220 

sheepfold for numbers specified, 
220 


Arbalistarius. See Odo 
Archbishops. See Canterbury, 
Dublin, Rouen, York 
Archdeacons. See Buckingham, 
Carlisle, Cleveland, Dur- 
ham, Glasgow, Notting- 
ham, Wells, Worcester, 
York 
Archer, duke of Normandy’s. See 
Baldric 
, Apmiger [7]: See Peter 
Arms, armorial seals, 1507; and 
see Estouteville, Stuteville, 
Upsall 
avenama, 173n 
Bakers. See Richard, Swain, 
William 
Baking and brewing, facilities for, 
190; and see Hessle 
Barons : 
of England, 6, 10, 15 
of northern parts of England, 69 
of the March, 36n 
of Normandy, 54 
of Shoreham, 59n 


INDEX 


Barons—continued 
of Yorkshire, 
English, 85 
honorial (of 
Mowbray), 240 
, testimony of, 110 
addressed (French and English), 
in charter of Robert de 
Stuteville ILI, 88 , 
addressed (of Yorkshire), in 
charter of Henry I, 85 
as benefactors of St. Mary’s 
York, 139 
Barony, service of, 80 
and see Honours 
Bishops. See Carlisle, Chester, Ely, 
Exeter, Glasgow, Lincoln, 


French and 


Roger de 


Norwich, Orkney, St. 
Andrews, Salisbury, Win- 
chester 

Bounds, perambulation of, 18, 208, 
2AM, 233,240 


buscus, firewood, 168 
Butlers. See Amund, Aubigny, 
Herbert, Richard, Sules 


Canon, Augustinian, grant of right 
to nominate, 171-2 

Carpenter. See Walter 

Carucates, numbers to knight’s fee, 
82n, 144, 158, 160n, 164, 


225 
Castles: :_ 

(in Yorkshire), see Burton-in- 
Lonsdale, Cottingham, 
Itirkby Malzeard, Knares- 
borough, Mount Ferrant, 
Pickering, Thirsk, Topcliffe, 
York 

(elsewhere in England), see 
Appleby, Bamburgh, 
Brough, Liddel, Mitford, 
Wark 

(in Scotland), see Edinburgh, 
Roxburgh 

(in Normandy), see Arques, 
Etoutteville, Lions-la- 


Forét, Rames, Valmont 
see also Cumberland, North- 
umberland, Yorkshire 
Chamberlains. See Ralph, Robert, 
Valognes, William 
Chancellors, king’s. See Middleton, 
Walter (Hubert) 
Chaplain, provision of, in -chapel, 


102-3 


SUBJECT INDEX 299 


Chaplains. See Ern’, Hugh, Hump- 
hrey, Martin, Nicholas, 
Odo, Richard, Robert, 
Stephen, Walter, William ; 
sée also York (St. Peter's 
hospital) 
addressed to 
ministers, 221 
addressed to honorial constables, 
stewards and ministers, 234 
issued by a woman ‘quantum 
fas est libere mulieri’, 179 
and see Barons 
Clerks. See Adam, Anselm, Baldric, 
Baldwin, Bartholomew, 
Benedict, Benjamin, 
Brian, Briennio, Cotting- 
ham, Drew, Henry, Hugh, 
James,  john= Lambert, 
Langwith, Laurence, 
Matthew, Nicholas, Peter, 
Ralph, Richard, Robert, 
Thomas, William, Wilton 
(archbishop’s), see under Roger 


Charter, honorial 


(abp) 
(of bishop of Durham), see 
Theobald 


(king’s), see Stanton 
(of king’s scriptorium), see God- 
frey, Stephen 
(of Roger de Mowbray), see 
Aubigny, Condet 
Coin, issued by Robert de Stuteville 
PRES 
Cook. See Edgar 
Cornage, 4, 14, 16, 78, 80, 125, 195 
Court, baronial, witnessing charters, 
246-7 
, knights in, 246-7 
and see Duel 
see also Mowbray 
Crown demesne, 108 
Crusades, 200-1, 222 
and see Acre 
cundos, le, the slope or ridge, 197 


Danegeld, 43 © 
freedom from, 237 
Deacon. See Roger 
Deans. See Stephen ; and Dunkeld, 


York 
subdean, see Lincoln 
Deans, rural: see Stonegtave, 


W.; and Bulmer, Pickering 
Lythe, Ryedale 

Decanal, ruri-, chapter, quitclaim 
made in) the presence of, 
207 

Det gratia style, 131n 

Dispenser. See William 

Doctors. See Carlisle, Hugh 

Domesday survey, 1S, 23, 337, 
Al, 50, 705.726, 895, 95, 


Domesday survey—continued 
L600; 10728, 112; Lie; 118, 
135-7, 140, 141n, 146, 152, 
160, 170, 174, 178, 180-1, 
183-6, 191, 197, 200, 206, 
219-20, 243, 246 

Duel, waged in private court, 238-40 


esnecia, 20 
Eton College MSS, vi, 45n, 46”, 47, 
48n 


Final concords. See Justices 
Fisheries. See Cottingham, Gor- 
mire, Tyne 
Foresters and forestry, 87, 92, 94, 
126; and see Elias, Gilla- 
moor, Matthew, Robert, 
UIkil 
Forests, king’s, 19 
justice of, see Bossall 
and see Fécamp, Felton, Liddel, 
Lillebonne, Milburn, 
Nichol, Westmorland 
Forinsec service, king’s excepted, 
2275 


Gifts : 
in prebendam, 85 
of bark of trees, 92-4, 126 
for a rent to purchase wine for 
masses, 87 
with body for burial, 109, 127 
for fraternity, 132, 193, 246-7 
for participation in prayers 
and benefits, 150, 211 
saving wild game, 203 
undertaking to go on abbey’s 
business, 230 
Granges. See Blanchemarle, Crosby, 
Hesketh, Hood, Kirby 
Wiske, Milburn, Skerne, 
Skiplam, Wildon 


Herbs, park for growing, 92, 94 

Hermitages. See Hull, Stratfield 

Hermits. See Edmund, Godard ; 
and cf. Heremite 

hoga, 133 

Honours, baronies, fees in chief. See 
Allerdale, Arches, Baliol, 
Bocquencé, Bourn, Brus, 
Bulmer, Burgh, Chester, 
Durham (bp), Ferrers, Fos- 
sard, Gant, Holderness, 
Hommet, Hubert son of 
Ralph, Huntingdon, 
Knaresborough, Langley, 
Leicester, Liddel, Luterel, 
Malet, Mauley, Meinil, Mor- 
tain, Mortimer, Mowbray, 
Paynel: “Percy, | Feverel, 
Rames, Richard’s Castle, 


300 STUTEVILLE TEE 


Honours—continued 


Richmond, Ridel, Kos, 
Rosedale, Tickhill, 
Valmont, Vescy, Wake, 
Warenne, Wark, War- 


wick, York (abp) 
Houses, fortification of, 113-4 
Hundred Rolls. See Yarborough 
Hundred Years war, 43 


Inheritance, Robert de Stuteville 
III’s statement of the 
recovery of his, in England, 
86 


kustice, chier, S 

Justices, 4, 69 
charter read before, 168-9 
final concord before (1176), 10 

— (1178), 167-8 

to deliver gaol of York, 20 

and see Belet, Bendinges, Bigod, 
Bossall, Cumin, Glanville, 
Jobn son of Lucas, Mid- 
dleton, Moreville, Murdac, 
Poher, Skipwith, Stuteville 
(Robert LL; William), 
Verdun, William son of 
Aldelin ; see also Blyth 


Kirkby’s Inquest, 81-2 
Knighthood, prohibition of, without 
king’s consent, 121 
Knight-service : 
confirmation of lands for service 
of a knight’s fee, 106 
gift of a knight’s fee, 159 
gift of manors. for service of 
3 knights, 9 
gift of land for service of 4 k.f., 
106-7 
———— 1/, k.f., 138%” 
payment per k.f. for disobeying 
summons, 60 
Knights : 
of wapentakes, perambulation 
by, 18 
——, witnessing a charter, 154 
twelve named, to assess dispute, 
239 
and see Berard, Richard, Step- 
hen, Wiliam son of Terry 


Ladies, married, as witnesses, 14ln 

Lardiner serjeanty, 239; and see 
David 

Leicestershire survey, 50 

Liber Vitae. See Durham, Thorney 

Lindsey survey, 72, 119”, 178n 


Magistri. See Arundel, Blois, 
Coldingham, Dove, Erard, 
Estouteville (John), Gre- 


Magistri—continued 
gory, Helmsley, Laurence, 
Lombard, Malebisse, 
Martin, Radeford, Rainer, 
Robert son. of Stephen, 
Romanus, Samuel, Step- 
hen, Stuteville (Robert), 
Swain, Swine, Vacarius, 
Willerby 

Magnates of king’s court, 18 

Markets and _ fairs. See Ayton, 
Brinklow, Burton Agnes, 
Buttercrambe, Cottingham, 
Gressenhall, Kirkby in 
Ashfield, Liddel, Valmont 

Merchant. See Robert 

Mill-pool, height of, 182 

Ministers, king’s. See Boltby, 
David, Dod, Fossard, New- 
sham 


Officials, honorial. See Charter 
Ostler. See Adam 
ovenam, ovenham, an intake, 107, 173 


Parliament, summons to (named), 
vii, 22, 31 
petitions to, 61 
Pension, from church to priory, 101 
from chapel to mother church, 
95-6 
Priests. See Alan, Alexander, Alfred, 
is Arundel, Asketin, Daniel, 
Engelram, Ketel, Norman, 
Paulinus, Peter, Richard, 
Robert, Roger, Silvester, 
Simon, Sotwame, Theo- 
deric, Walter 
pro anima and pro salute clauses, 
doubtful deduction from, 
206, 234 
pro anima et vita, 189 
Reeves. See John, Roger, Walter, 
William 
Religious houses : 


(in Yorkshire), see Arden, 
Beverley, Bridlington, 
Byland, Ferriby, Foun- 
tains, Guisborough, 
Healaugh, Hood, Hospital- 
lers, Hull, Keldholme, 
Kirkham, Kirkstall, | 


Malton, Marrick, Meaux, 
Newburgh, Nostell, Nun 
Monkton, Pontefract, 
Rievaulx, Ripon, Roche, 
Rosedale, Selby, Templars, 
Watton, Whitby, Yed- 
dingham, York — 
(elsewhere in England), see 
Bardney, Bermondsey, 
Biddlesden, Bullington, 


SUBJECT INDEX 301 


Religious houses—continued 
Calder, Campsey, Castle 
Acre, Cockersand, Combe, 


Durham, Farne Island, 
Felley, Frieston, Hailes, 
Hexham, Langley, 
Launde, Lenton, Lewes, 
Monks’ Kirby, Newbo, 
Newminster, Newstead, 
Pipewell, Reéevesby,- St. 
Neots, Sempringham, 
Shap, Stratfield, Templars, 
Thorney, Thornholme, 
Wardon, Welbeck, 


Wendling, Wetheral 

(in Scotland), see Canobie, 
Jedburgh 

(in Normandy), see Aumale, 
Bacqueville, Clair Ruissel, 


Fécamp, Longueville, 
Préaux, Rouen, St- 
André, St-Evroul, St- 
Georges - de - Boscherville, 
Valmont 

(elsewhere in France), _ see 
Angers, Marmoutier, 
Tiron 


see also Jerusalem 
Rent, arrangements for, in arrear, 
181-2 
vogus calcis, lime-kiln, 95 


scalinga, shieling, 197 
Scribe, scriptor. See John, Samuel 
Scutage, 10m, 11, 16; 20, 51-3, 56, 
oo, 160, 190 
fine for quittance of, 114-5 
and see Ireland, Kerry, Wales 
Sealing a charter, when of age, 226 
on coming to a locality, 226 
Seals, 150 ; and see Cruer, Lascelles, 


Mowbray, Newburgh 
priory, Roger (abp), 
Salisbury, Stuteville ; 


see also Armorial seals 
Seisin, disseisin by king without 
judgment, 18 


Serjeants. See Benedict, Godfrey, 
Martin 
Serjeanty tenure, of keeping a liam- 
hound, 197n 
and see Lardiner 
Services : 


carrying king’s hauberk in 
Welsh war, 80 
lst of, in royal charter, freedom 
from, 2o7 
pound of cumin, 177 
pound of incense or 12d., 245 
pound of pepper, 241-2 
Smiths. See Ralph, Richard 
Standard, battle of the, vii, 32”, 200 
Stewards. See Daniel, Rainer ; 
and undey Brus, Glanville, 
Mowbray, Richmond, Ros, 
Stuteville (Nicholas II, 
William) 
Suit onicourt, see Hessie 


Tailors. See Liolf, Nicholas 
takcum, tac’, due for feeding forest 
swine, 221 
Tallage, amount specified, 220 
temanetele, freedom from, 237 
Tithes, acquittance of, 245-6 
agreement to define lands 
tithable, 244-5 
prevention of exaction of, 236 
Trees, agreement for felling, 154-6 


Ushers. See Ansketil, John 


Vaccary, 92-4 
vavasaria. See Sutton 
Vicar. See Ralph 
Vice-archdeacon. 
of William 
Villein, manumission of, 38 


See Robert son 


Wandales, 149-50 
Water, facilities for, 169 
Writ of right of advowson, 46n 


oe snl aol BE 


ere ities - ae pe | Sateen = eighap hag] 
Phy ce ee ee 

f OANA £ie ei Awe at aap Pe ee ee ee 
: a 7 iis es Pe oe ie 7 . a ah pte verte: op iy Sree 4 : -_ — e 
nage | a PUTS Sah: FORE 7 eau So Arges Nit i "ie ioe ears = : 


. : ; -_ See 2 fa rey pee aoa. EU OIG: 7 . 
- ee ee ot | ek > op SEs oe - 
: Me Jome Desa <n ‘a0 geal « gees eae | 
Swe > i ee ee: ae ae aft; ee ae ee ee ) 
PIE Se. agen wt) firenyrt : 
c lee a, \ aor Dw 4aewiaonr § aid Tee on 
ras “ 7 ny wo _ “~e Pa ea ram ‘lp s " ee he (i P48 at eas 
‘be eat i ae rnb « ' Syeemeigey cS The als < 
“ae ee att x n.: Se2 ‘ ng a ), eee oi pany gl. ghar 
nt a .; ea) aN iin? Su) SA ae, 6 
1 => ee | st 4 Ty er Sr , 
ae ae 4¢,-i¢4 ae s, ‘ nt Clans i 
: pA hawt Je | 7 a . - ee a re = 7 J 
m Pe eee ee a ee a ae 
7) sobte ee >is ‘ rie Pe 7 uin ye, on 
A3Gxee SIO Se Pew ie ee a 
: eS r pa . i ne :  ¥ 3 vas 
ha = cee oe wae 1” <i eed se 
Ape? 2 a + > yey € ge @h>s 
tal he TP wae Ws a pee: _ . a peed, 
; E> oe ad eK a; ) - et Se iey wy 


ide Daas a: , oe Une : de a 
7 Se ‘5 eer is Ah 8 hee, hes aha ae ; _ Pe “e i. Ge 

‘ Re io be ss 3 —— - a a ; ~ s o a : = r 
See =i eee, ae J nop = St [Oras Se os 
Pe : ot 3 ve a ‘ Abo a tank : pees Lae eae Se 
oe i ate rare SRS Ao permy . - Bi: Bie: Cia md rhe 
aks : ; a sie Dera a ea | ws ; harGr? hy de De 
Die oe aay be lens § fies a, ed, anata) ene Ree, 
- eee ee een, 124 = ‘Whee A ae, OR ae | 
a5 : 7 i= +2) 7 ; : a. Eons artic any. »: a ga 7 
. - le ae ce = rey a:5 ie ie a got aes 

Poy eel etre 5 , 


= call 
= 7 
: 
=<. 2 
- 
- i as 7 
‘ ~ or 
7 - 
: Car = = rs ; 
¢. ek ; oes 
; pk tenes 
® se - 
- 7 7 om re 
- 4>. oe et ay 
7 _ Be, 
7 ; ; 7 ? ' 
a? = f 7 
ot za: Lv. 
i al 
=. 4 
7 Y 
S - 
i ee ; 
7 - & é 
ab 
7 3 
* 
Z ‘ 
7 
- 


7 —~ 
y _* : : 
i = 
7 ; a 2 ‘= y 
- P 
a > 
= - - eo nl : a 7 


i 
\ = 
) 
a 
7 + 

7 
a 7 
7 7 


okaie 
ae 


Deeg 4. i, at 7 


PO 


7 
aa — ve a 
x ert — > i 7 


> 


mn ae 


ore oi 


ad i ~~ 


7 ar ca peewee! 


fee 
Ye pti 2 rN 
Pepe nie etN Asi 4 
: Shoe i 
i * , 


ea lho 
ae baat 
Rd ie 


eee 


Perris 
rare Rees 
bas ape eeey, sj 
aa 


res 
Ae tags 
x ive 
near 


= 


Mae Pee 
ty +o 


RAEN ees 
Perks cew eines 


Te ae: f 
bh ant ra 
RNC A 
el eirss 
Ant, Se 
% 
ys. 


tas 
ety 
Big (Seva 


