 - 1 - 
Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2015
https://archive.org/details/historicalsketchOOnash_0
 - 2 - 
\
i
 - 3 - 
 - 4 - 
 - 5 - 
 - 6 - 
 - 7 - 
 - 8 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
 - 9 - 
 - 10 - 
[IsTo.  QJ
Weymouth Historical Society.
HISTORICAL SKETCH
OF THE
TOWN OF WEYMOUTH,
ISCjJ^SS   H:TJSETTS
,
KROM 1622 TO 1884,
COMPILED BY
GELBEET NASH,
Rkcobding Seceetaet of the Weymouth Historical Sooiett, Member of the New
Enslanb Historic, Geneaiogical Soceett, and of the
Webster Historical Society.
PUBLISHED BY THE TOWN OF WEYMOUTH,
UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE
WEYMOUTH HISTORICAL SOCIETY,
1885.
-
 - 11 - 
ALFRED MUDGE 8c  SON, PRINTERS,
24 Franklin Stkeet, Boston.
 - 12 - 
1408244
PREFACE.
Br the courtesy of Gilbert Nash, Esq., the author of this
Sketch of Weymouth, I have been permitted to examine the
advance sheets of the book.  Finding that his labors have been
so conscientiously and faithfully  executed, it  gives me great
pleasure to accede to his request to write a few prefatory words.
The town of Weymouth has a  remarkable historj'-, and may
well be congratulated on having an historian so  familiar with
the details of its  eai'ly  life  and so competent to record them.
It was the first settlement made within what afterward became
the Colony of Massachusetts Bay, and this very antiquity gives
an additional interest to its annals.  The obscurity surrounding
its origin tends to invest the story with a romance which only
increases the zeal of the antiquary.   It has attracted the atten-
tion  of the novelist, and in  modern times  has prompted the
most critical researches  of the scholar.   Under these  circum-
stances the appearance of this work makes an important acces-
sion to the literature of our local history.
Within a few years the study of the origin and nature of New
England towns,  with  a  special  reference  to  their  political
methods and their management of practical questions, has re-
ceived a fresh impulse, which opens a wide field  for investiga-
tion.   There are now but few places  in  the  State  that  have
not their history either in book or pamphlet ;    and it is to such
publications that writers on this subject must look hereafter for
th'iir authorities.   The New England town system is  of native
growth, and has sprung from the needs of the  people.   This
system took root in  the soil  of Plymouth, and afterward in
that of Llassachusetts Bay, though its  development has  been
modified from time to time by the varying circumstances of dif-
ferent communities.  Some features  were inherited  from the
 - 13 - 
vi                            PREFACE.
parishes of England, and perhaps even from earlier sources ;  but   i
the essential characteristics,  such as levying taxes, settling the
minister,  supporting free  schools,  laying out highways, and
attending to the prudential affairs of the town, were decidedly
NewEngland in their origin.   Nowhere else were these subjects
managed with such freedom and without restraint  from any
quarter.   In other words, the small  settlements springing up
under this system were little republics, and they have since fur-
nished the germ of our State and national governments.  In-
separably connected with their existence was the town meeting,
where the utterance of popular wants took shape, —where the
abstract idea in politics assumed a concrete form and went abroad
as the will of the people.
The town meeting is the unit of political expression, and the
value of the aggregate depends upon the extent of personal con-
viction.   The instincts of the masses comino; together to act on
questions of pul)lic policy are always honest, and here the pop-
ular heart is  best studied.   The rulers of the nation, w^ho are
but the servants of the people, appreciate this fact, and are ever
ready to feel  the impulse, so delicate and sensitive is  the con-
nection between the power and its  source.
Local histories deal largely with these matters, and some-
times the humblest narratives throw the clearest light ;     and
writers of philosophical history, which treats of causes as well
as of results, cannot alford to overlook them in their investiga-
tions.   Such works hereafter will be a great help to the author
and scholar.
The Wej^mouth Historical Society, under whose patronage
this  Sketch is now published, is  an association formed for the
purpose of  preserving  the history  of its  neighborhood,  and
has ah-eady printed one other volume.  By its labors the Soci-
ety has placed itself abreast of the active organizations of its
kind, and set an excellent example to be followed in the sev-
eral towns of the Commonwealth.
In conclusion, I wish to call  attention to the full  and com-
plete Index of the book, which adds largely to its value.
Boston, January 20,  1885.
SAMUEL A. GREEN.
 - 14 - 
CONTENTS.
Pkeface (by Dr. Samuel A. Green)     ...... v
Introductiok                                            1
CHAPTEE I.
Geography —Geology —General  History —Weston's  Colony—
Gorges's Settlement—IIuH's Company—Ecclesiastical Troubles
—Pequod War—Emigration —Town Government .             .           .          13
CHAPTEE II.
King Philip  War—Company of  Horse —Town Affairs —Sir
Edmund Andros—Military Company—Canadian Expedition
—Local Matters —Town Boundaries —New Precinct —Dr.
White —Town Eegulations —Parsonage Property —Pigwac-
ket Indians —Town Commons—Throat Distemper—French
and Indian War—French Neutrals —Dr. Tufts—Highways
—South"Precinct                                                   36
CHAPTEE III.
Eevolutionary War—Arbitrary Measures of the Crown —Agents
chosen to meet in Boston —Committees of Correspondence—
No more Tea—Energetic Action —Eecord of Votes on the
Eesolutions of Congress —Eefusal to pay Taxes to the Eoyal
Treasury —Town Committee of  Correspondence —Minute-
men—Preparations for War—Eaising Troops —Declaration
of Independence—Bounties —State Conv.eniion —State Con-
stitution —Procuring Alen and Provisions —Soldiers to Hull .          55
CHAPTER W.
Eecovering from the Effects of the War—Work-house —Local
Matters —Small-pox —Norfolk County—Attempt to  divide
the  Town—Business  Enterprises — Post-otRce —War with
 - 15 - 
Vlll                                CONTENTS.
England —Alnrni  at  Cohasset—Town Lines —Manufactur-
ing Companies  discouraged —Surplus  Revenue —Anti-sla-
very Resolutions —Town Records —Town Hall —War of the
Rebellion —Opening  Scenes —Twelfth  Regiment—Raising
Troops —Military  Records —Counties —Thirty-fiflh  Regi-
ment—Town Bonds and  Seal —Forty-second  Regiment—
Contributions—Difiicultics —Fourth Heavy Artillery —Final
Attempt to  divide  the  Town—Soldiers'  Monument —Two
Hundred and Fiftieth Anniversary —Water Question—Fire
Department —Growth of the Town                      72
CHAPTER V.
Ecclesiastical History —Congregational Churches: First Church  .           95
CHAPTER yi.
Congregational  Churches  (continued):  Second  Church,  Union
Church of Weymouth and I'raintree, Union Church of South
Weymouth, Congregational Churcli at  East Weymouth, Pil-
grim Church —Methodist Episcopal:  Church at  East "Wey-
mouth,  Church  at   Lovell's  Corner —Universalist:  First
Church,  Second  Church,  Third  Church — Haptist:  First
Church —Roman  Catholic:  Parish  of  St.  Francis Xavier,
Parish of the Immaculate Conception, Parish of  the Sacred
Heart, Parish of St.  Jerome —Protestant Episcopal: Trinity
Parish .                                                                                                                                                                                           108
CHAPTER VII.
Educational Institutions: Public Schools —Weymouth and Braia-
tree Academy —Newspapers —Weymouth Historical Society
—Social  Libraries — Mutual  Library  Associations —Tufts
Library                                                      125
CHAPTER VIIL
^Military Organizations: Early Companies, Company for tlie Caslle,
Weymouth  Light  Ibirse,  Weyiuoiiih  Artillery,  ^Veym()uth
Light Infantry. Franklin Guards, Grand Army of the Hcpuli-
lic,  Lincoln Post, No. 40, Reynolds Post, 5S —Societies and
Associations:  Masonic: Orphans' Hope Lodge, Delta Lodge,
South Shore Commandery, Pental]ia Royal  Arch  Chapter—
Odd Fellows :     Crescent I^odge, Wildey Lorlgc,  V\'om]iatuck
Encaiiipinent —Knights of J^ylhias :     Delphi Lodge —Knight^s
of  Honor :       Pilgrim  Lodge —Weymouth Agricidtural  and
Industrial Society —Other Organizalioas                        137
 - 16 - 
CONTENTS.                       ix
CHAPTER IX.
Business Enterprises —Mills: The Walthani-Richards-Bates Mill,
Tide Mill, TirrelPs Mill,  Reed's Mill,  Load's  Mill, Vinson's
Mill, Dyer's Mill —Turnpikes :   Weymouth and Braiutree, New
Bedford,  Hingham and  Quincy—Railroads:  Old  Colony,
South  Shore —Expresses —Telegraph—Telephones —Einan-
cial   Corporations — Banks :       Union  National,  National  of
South Weymouth—Savings  Banks: Weymouth, South Wey-
mouth, and East Weymouth—Weymouth and Biaintree Fire
Insurance  Company —Manufactures :        ISoots  and  Shoes —
Weymouth  Iron  Company —Fish  Company —Weymouth
Commercial Company—Ice  Companies —Bradley Fertilizer
Company—Ship Building— Bay State Hammock Company—
Howe and  French—Fire-works —Mitten  Factory —-Miscel-
laneous                                                        143
Ministers of the  First  Church :       William Morrell, Mr. Rarnard,
Joseph Hull, Thomas Jenner, Robert Lenthal, Samuel New-
man, Thomas Thacher, Samuel Torrey, Peter Thacher, Thomas
Paine, William Smith, Jacob Norton, Josiah Bent, Jr., John
C.  Phillips,  Joshua Emery, Jr., Franklin P. Chapin; and of
the Second Church :    James Bayley, Simeon Williams   .             .         157
Physicians of Weymouth                                  180
CHAPTER X.
CHAPTER XI.
CHAPTER XII.
Military Record, 1861-1865                                         214
APPENDI  ES.
APPENDIX A.
List of the Hull Company                                  247
APPENDIX B.
Indian Deed of Weymouth                                251
APPENDIX C.
Property Owners and Description of Propertyin 1643 :     First Divis-
ion, 1636 ;    Second Division, 1651 ;   List of 1663                  254
 - 17 - 
X                   CONTENTS.
APPENDIX D.
Personal Sketches: Major James Humphrey, Gen. SolomonLovell,
Dea. Nathaniel Bayley,James Humphrey, 3d, Esq., Gen.James
L. Bates                                                    285
APPENDIX E.
Instructious to James Humphrey, Esq., 1765                        296
APPENDIX P.
List of Soldiers in the Revolutionary Wax                   300
Index                                              306
 - 18 - 
INTRODUCTION.
The larger portion of the text of the  following historical
sketch of the town of Weymouth, Mass., was originall}'' pub-
lished  in the "History of Norfolk County,  Mass.," recently
issued by Messrs. J. W. Lewis & Co., from the press of J. B.
Lippincott & Co., Philadelphia, and was intended  merely to
answer the needs of such a publication.   The volume being a
large one,  and the price  heavy, the circulation,  even in  the
town, has been extremely limited, and comparatively few of its
inhabitants know that such a work has been placed before the
public, so that the wants of the people for more knowledge of
their own local history have not been met, even to the limited
extent covered by this sketch.
The committee of the town, to which was referred the  mat-
ter of collecting materials for a town history, finding the work
growing upon its  hands, with no probability of accomplishing
the purpose of its creation for a considerable time, and know-
ing that the call for some result of its  labor is  becoming more
and more urgent, has decided to republish the sketch in a form
for convenient circulation among the people at a moderate ex-
pense, with the addition of much original matter, including full
notes upon important points where the brevity of the original
text requires it,  and also a full index, an addition imperatively
demanded by the  readers  of the  present day, especially in
works of this character.
In thus answering temporarily the public want in  this  direc-
tion, while the more complete and thoi'ough history of the town
awaits its accomplishment, the committee believes it  has acted
for the best interests of the town, and in accordance with the
 - 19 - 
2                    SKETCH OF WEYMOUXn.
opinions of the best historical  scholars who are familiar with
such matters and vvliose advice has l)een taken.
In the experience of the past, the attempt to prepare and
pul)lish at a first draft even a local history has not resulted suc-
cessfully, and it has been found necessary in a short time to go
over the ground again for the correction of errors and to incor-
porate the results of more thorough research ;    and it has been
found a much more judicious plan to publish first a preliminary
work, covering briefly the ground, in order to  draw out criti-
cism and new material, of which there is  much in every com-
munity of which no one but the possessors knows anything, and
oftentimes of which even they are ignorant, and also  for the
correction of errors, of which the most carefully prepared work
will contain many.
It is with such ideas that the committee has decided to place
this sketch before the pu]>lic :    first, to present in brief the in-
formation already in its hands ;  and second, to inspire an enthu-
siasm upon the subject which shall induce more thorough search
for the hidden material now beyond its reach, yet so necessary
to the committee in the prosecution of its work to  a successful
result ;   and by this is meant the production of such a history of
the town as shall be satisfactory to its  inhal^itants, and answer
the requirements of the students of history who have so long
demanded it.
It must, therefore, be constantly borne in mind that this is but
an incomplete, preliminary workandnot a full, elaborate history ;
and if many things are missing, or stated with too great brevity,
it is  from the nature of the work, and consequently, too much
should not be expected.   It should also  be remembered that
this is  put forward with the design to enlist the aid of all who
have an interest in  the town's good name in  doing what they
can to enable the committee to complete its purpose.
The town of Weymouth is,  next to  Plymouth, the  oldest
English  settlement  in  Massachusetts.   It  has a rich and, in
some respects, a unique history,  interesting alike  to  its  own
people and to the scholars of the country, and the want of its
record has been long felt and deplored.   Its early settlers were
numerous, men of character and enterprise, while its  emigrants
soon found their way into other sections, where their descendants
 - 20 - 
INTRODUCTION.                     3
are now found in large numbers scattered  from the shores  of
the Atliuitic to the Pacific, and from the English Provinces on
the norai to the Mexican Gulf on the south.
From these multitudes and the friends  they have acquired,
thei'e comes a constant appeal for a history of the mother town,
an earnest desire for some knowledge more than they now pos-
sess of the original home of their ancestors in  this  land.   Not
only from these, but from the scholars who are making the his-
tory of our country their  study, comes tlie  continual inquiry
for this same information, and it was for the purpose of supply-
ing this  demand that this  committee was formed,  and it  is
with this end in view that an appeal is  made for  assistance  in
prosecuting the work.
In collecting materials and writing a  history of this  town,
besides the difficulties that are usually met in such an undertak-
ing, there are others of a peculiar character, not found, proba-
bly, in  any other locality,  very hard to  overcome or solve,
which require the utmost patience and pei'severance with the
nicest discrimination and judgment in their treatment.
It is highly probable that, previous to 1620, there were tem-
porary camps upon the territory now Weymouth, formed by the
fishermen and traders who visited  the  New England coast to
carry on with better facilities their traffic with the natives.  Here
seems to have been animportantrendezvous for the Indians, and
there are traces now remaining of several of their settlements
upon the shores of the bay.   Here, also, centre the old Indian
trails leading from the territories at the south, now covered by
Plymouth,  Bristol,  and Norfolk  Counties.   It  was a  point
easily accessible by sea and land, and thus of great value for
this purpose.
It was not, however, until  the  settlement at Plymouth was
begun that any attempt at actual occupation was made and real
possession taken.   That enterprise, so feeble and of so little
promise, crystallized into practical purpose the thought that per-
haps had lain undeveloped in the minds of many ;    and Thomas
Weston, a well-known and prominent merchant of London, who
had been the agent of the Pilgrims in their negotiations with the
Plymouth Company, and who, on account of some trouble with
his associates in the business,  had broken off his  connection
 - 21 - 
4                 SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
with them, undertook the esta1)]ishment ofa colony upon his own
account which should, in a better location, combine all  the ad-
vantages of the Plymouth Colony without its drawbacks.  That
company were flying from the persecutions of the powers in
authority at home, and thus without any governmental support,
which could  not  fail  of being  a  serious hindrance.   They
were without strong financial backing, —a most important factor
in the movement and one of great necessity.   They brought
with them their families, which could hardly fail  to become a
source of much inconvenience, to say the least,  in  the  early
stages of a commercial adventure.
These evils the new company of Mr. Weston were entirely
to avoid ;    they were to be a trading community pure and sim-
ple, intent only upondeveloping the natural resources of the new
country and of putting money into their own treasury.   The
favor of the government could be secured beyond doubt by the
promise of a share in the profits ;   capital would flow in readily
at the flattering  pictures drawn by the adventurers, and the
company who were to occupy the post and transact the business
were such as could be obtained from the surplus population of
London, men used to peril and hardship and familiar with the
coast ;    and, also, an important consideration, without the incum-
brance of families.   What if they were without trades, with-
out any special training for the particular business in hand, and
even destitute of the high principle and purpose that animated
their Pilgrim neighbors ?    So much the better for the practical
business before them.
In the light of subsequent history it  is very easy to see  that
snch an enterprise, conceived in such a spirit, composed of such
materials, and carried on in such a manner, could have but one
result, and that, failure.   It is, therefore, no surprise, when the
record tells thesad story of the fewmonths ofhardship, suffering,
and death, and of total fiiilure in every respect.   But even this
was not without benefit to coming and permanent settlers who
were very soon to  occupy the same ground.  The benefit  of
the location  was assured, the  character  of the  soil  and its
capabilities better known, and its general advantages of position
and convenience placed beyond question.
The failure of Weston's colony in  1622 and 1623 opened
 - 22 - 
INTRODUCTION.                     5
the way for  another and more permanent possession.   Capt.
Robert  Gorges, himself also  an adventurer, the  son of  Sir
Fernando Gorges, possessor of a patent, covering, by an elastic
rendering of its terms, the territory about the bay now known
as Boston Harbor, recognizing the advantages of its  position,
and believing, also, in the certain success of a trading colony,
prepared an expedition having the same end in view and upon
very nearly the  same basis,  but with these  exceptions ;     the
men composing it, although from the same region of country,
were of a much higher grade and with families, thus affording
foundation for permanence.   It  had also  a religious element
which the previous company lacked.   It brought a chaplain,
backed by the  authority of the Church of England, clothed
with power sufficient to cover any emergency that would be
likely to  arise.    This company had also  a promise of official
support  and financial  encouragement sufficient  to  insure  its
success under ordinary circumstances.   It had also among its
members men of standing and education.   With these elements
of prosperity, its  prospects wei'e quite flattering ;    and when,
in the summer and early autumn of 1623, the  company took
up its  residence  upon or  near the recently  deserted site  of
Weston's settlement, the outlook was a bright one.   The loca-
tion was excellent, the soil  amply sufficient for the wants to
which they intended to put it, the prospects for trade encour-
aging, and no enemies in the vicinity who were to be feared.
There was, however, one serious lack, and that was of im-
portance enough to weaken the political structure and to cause
in a short time its practical dissolution.   It was simply a trad-
ing colony, and all the elements composing it were intended but
to promote the  acquisition  of wealth to its  proprietors ;     the
real basis of a permanent colony was lacking.   There was no
common bond, save that of money, to  bind its  members to-
gether ;   and when the hardships of a New England winter came
upon them, and the profits of the enterprise did not flow in to
realize  their anticipations, there was nothing to sustain their
courage, which soon gave way, and they were scattered, and
Wessaguscus remained almost as before.
The almost consisted in this :     a few of the more resolute, and
possibly desperate, remained behind, retaining possession of the
 - 23 - 
6                    SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
ground and such remnants of political and religious or ecclesi-
astical power as had survived the wreck.  These were added to
from year to year by the slow process of emigration, the  tide
of which was just  beginning to set  its  feel>le  course towards
these shores, but which was destined so to increase that in pro-
cess of the next twenty years it was numbered by many thou-
sands.   It was some ten or a dozen years l)efore the settlement
became a power in  the colony of sufficient  consequence to at-
tract the notice and authority of its neighbors in Plymouth and
Boston, and then it had become so strong as to be difficult to
manage.
It was then that the development began of one of the prin-
cipal sources of trouble the historian finds in searching for the
origin of the town's history, —the lack of materials and the rea-
son of their non-appearance.  The Weston Colony was wholly
transient, needing no records and leaving none.   The Gorges
Company was attempted in the interests of the government and
the church ;   but its internal and local troubles were such as  to
forbid any regular and systematic record of its proceedings.  It
was naturally inimical to Plymouth, because the former was the
offspring of official patronage, while the latter  was born and
grew in  spite of it.    Hence the [)eople of that town made as
little account of its only neighbor as was possible, and as  little
notice of its matters crept into their  records and correspond-
ence.
Later on, the  additions  were of a  mixed class,  non-con-
formists predominating, but neither party of sufficient power to
wholly override the other.   As a natural consequence, nothing
of a disputed character would become a matter of record, and
matters passed on without formal notice.   When the Massa-
chusetts Bay Colony came into power with the advent of Gov.
Winthrop, in  1630, and a weight of governmental authority
sufficient to subdue all  public opposition, a new element was
introduced into the little  settlement of Wessaguscus, the legal
authority contending with the old  spirit  of resistance  based
upon the original  grant to  the Gorges Company upon which
the settlement was founded.
The pressing necessities of the colonists incident upon a new
settlement prevented open contention ;    but the spirit of oppo-
 - 24 - 
INTRODUCTION.                     7
sition  was there,  and showed itself  as  opportunity offered.
This state of things continued for several  years, and it was not
until a score had passed that the mixed company became fairly
united and settled down into comparative peace.   The original
element long resisted, to  the best of its  ability, the growing
power of the government, and hesitated  to  acknowledge its
supremacy, hence the tardiness of many of its settlers to become
freemen of the colony.
The large addition made to the settlement in  1635, ])y the
company of Rev. Joseph Hull, and the rapid influx  of other
new members in  the few years immediately succeeding, who
were not mixed up with the previous, unsettled condition of
things, instead of serving to allay the troubles, seemed but to
introduce, for a time at least, new elements of discord which
rose  at times to public disturbance.   But the strength of the
civil power had become so  great that these agitations  showed
themselves  principally in the church and  upon ecclesiastical
matters.
The appearance of Eev. Mr. Hull, an actual minister, of Rev.
Mr. Jenner, of Rev. Mr. Lenthal, in course of a year or two,
and of Rev. Mr. Newman shortly after, each with a body ot ad-
herents strong enough to make formidable headway, and with
vitality sufficient to endure for several years, afibrds ample evi-
dence of the actual state of affairs.   It will not be a matter of
surprise that under such circumstances the records of the settle-
ment should have been overlooked, neither party being willing
that any statement besides its  own should appear ;     hence, by
tacit understanding, nothing was committed to writing.
The same reasons also  prevailed in the Plymouth and Bay
Colonies during the  transition  period to  prevent  permanent
record  by them.  This settlement was a wedge between the
two, acknowledging neither, and out of sympathy with both.
Being without  the bounds of the  former, that  colony could
claim no jurisdiction, and in the case of the latter, a disputed
authority rendered intercourse unpleasant.   The fact also that
there was in these Wessaguscus people a strong Episcopalian
element, served to render them for a time rather aliens than
citizens.
With the large body of new settlers  about 1640, the gradual
 - 25 - 
8                  SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
withdrawal of the leaders of the various conflicting elements,
and the evident necessity for  a strong government and com-
bined effort, comparative peace prevailed, and the plantation,
now town of Weymouth, entered  upon a  second  historical
era which continued, with but few important interruptions, for
a century and a half,  during which time the agricultural re-
sources of the town developed themselves, and the foundations
were laid  which  have made it,  under a transition from agri-
culture to manufactures, what it is at the present time.
Another difSculty in the way of compiling a  history of the
town is the total absence for the first  hundred and more years
of all church records.   While other towns have these in a more
or less perfect condition, Weymouth is wholly destitute of this
important  class  of  historical  material.    The disturbed  and
conflicting state of aftairs  during the first  twenty years of the
settlement has already been alluded to, and will fully account
for the absence of records during that time, and until the set-
tlement of Rev. Thomas Thacher ;  but whythere should be none
for the century following until the settlement of Rev. William
Smith, it is not so easy to say.
It was the early custom, and one which is  still  continued in
many of the smaller churches, for the minister to act as clerk,
which, with the important position accorded to him as pastor,
rendered him the sole  custodian of all  the records and papers
of the church.   Accountable to no one, he could enter what he
pleased or nothing at all, and he could do this in either his pub-
lic capacity or as a private individual.   In very manyinstances
the  latter  seems to  have been the method, if any,  and the
papers passed among the private property of the ministers, and
upon his  removal or death went into  other hands,  and the
church was left  destitute.   It may well be that this was the
case with the First Church in Weymouth, and that among the
papers of the four pastors who preceded Rev. Mr. Smith, could
they be found, there would appear much of great value to the
historian of Weymouth.
Still  another diflSculty in  the way of the town historian is
the paucity of private manuscripts in  the hands of ftimiliea.
There are some, perhaps many, of these, and a few of them
have seen the light, but it is probable that by far the larger and
 - 26 - 
INTRODUCTION.                     9
more important portion still  remains where they have lain for
generations, in the attics and forgotten drawers of their owners.
The demand for them has not yet been sufficiently loud to make
their value apparent in the eye of those in whose custody they
lie.   It may be possible in the future to  discover and make
these available ;    until then the historian must be content with
the other sources of information at his command.
During the half-century in which Rev. Mr. Smith was custo-
dian of the records of the First Church, and following him, the
near forty years of service in the same position of Rev. Mr.
Norton, very little indeed appears to have been made a matter
of record by them excepting cases of discipline, and but few of
those, while a very imperfect list of the marriages, births, and
deaths  has been preserved.   Nearly the  same may be said
relative to  the records of the Second Church in  the  South
Parish during the first century (lacking only four years)  of its
existence, whenthe pastorate and clerkship were in the hands of
Rev. Messrs. Bayley and Williams.  The value of a record of
passing events for the use of future generations does not seem
to have been apparent to them, and, in consequence, theirs, upon
general matters, is exceedingly brief.
With the death of Mr. Williams and the removal of Mr.
Norton, the records  reached a period within the  memory of
a generation now living, and it  is, therefore, possible to repair
any or many deficiencies  that  may have occurred in those of
subsequent years.   Thus, some of the principal difficulties that
lie in the path of the town historian have been indicated, and
the reasons suggested why such a work as his must necessarily
be slow and often unsatisfactory.
It is, on the other hand, a matter of congratulation that the
town records, embracing a period of more than two hundred
and forty years, are so full and so well preserved.   These are
the main authority for the general history of the town during
that  time,  and they have been  carefully  examined for  the
present sketch.   Probably few towns are more fortunate in this
particular than Weymouth.  The dated record begins in  De-
cember, 1641, although there are a very few items, evidently of
an earlier date, which are undoubtedly transcribed from other
sources by a later hand, and a mass of property records which
 - 27 - 
10                 SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
are undated, but which, from external and internal  evidence,
should appear a year or two later.
These early records contain avast amount of detail withregard
to town and parish matters, and were probablyput in their pres-
ent place and form under a town vote at the spring meeting of
1670.   No book or paperin possession of the townat an earlier
period is  to be found at  the  present time.   Until 1651 the
records seem to have been kept bythe townsmen, or selectmen,
as since called ;   but at that time a town clerk was chosen, who,
with his successors, occupied the position until to-day, and their
many duties have been performed with a fair degree of fulness
and accuracy.   There have been periods when, in consequence
of war or  other prominent disturbances,  many omissions oc-
curred, but this  was common in  nearly all  towns, and Wey-
mouth is no worse ofi' in this respect than its neighbors.
Besides thetown records there are the old colonial records and
the  governmental  records  of later  date,  the archives of the
State in the State House at Boston, and the court recoi'ds ;    all
of these are of great value, and have been freely consulted in
the preparation of the present work.  Then, too, there are the
papers of contemporaneous writers during the various periods
covered bythe histor'y, and, particularly, the valuable documents
and reprints of the Massachusetts Historical, and the New Eng-
land Historic, Genealogical Societies, which are mines of wealth
to the local as well as to the general historian.   These have all
been freely opened to the use of the compiler, and they have
been carefully examined, although not so thoroughly as would
be  desirable  and necessary for  a complete history ;    but the
ground has been covered, and it is  believed that the more im-
portant facts connected with the story of Weymouth are here
presented.
The sketches of the various churches and religious societies
have been compiled from authentic sources, in most cases from
their own records, while the facts concerning the industrial and
financial interests have been carefully gathered from materials
furnished byofficers of the corporations or by persons engaged in
the various branches of business now carried on in the  town,
and are as complete as can be expected in a work of this limited
extent.
 - 28 - 
INTRODUCTION.                    11
Therecords of the soldiers engaged in the various wars of the
country from the Pequod to the Revolution, although not by
any means full or perfect, are believed to  be much more com-
plete than any hei-etofore  furnished,  and have been gathered
from all the known sources at command, the list of the Revolu-
tionary soldiers being taken mainly from the records  of the
town treasurer at the time, the volume in which they are found
having been quite recently brought to the notice of the public.
Valual)le  information  has also been found among the  papers
of the late Col. Thomas Vinson of South Weymouth, and others
who participated in that war.
The first  publication of the Weymouth Historical  Society
has been fi'eely  drawn u|)on for matters covered  in that vol-
ume, including the time of the French and Indian, and Revolu-
tionary wars.   This publication also  contains many important
facts concerning local history from the date of the arrival of the
company of Rev. Joseph Hull in 1G35.
The history of Weymouth during the Rebellion of 18G1 to
1865 is  so recent that the main facts are fresh in the memories
of all ;     and as a full record of the events of that war in which
the town has special interest will undoul)tedly be pul)lished, it
has not been deemed desirable to furnish in  this  sketch any-
thing beyond as complete a list of the men sent into the service
from the town, with such brief information  concerning their
rank, branch of service, and casualties, as could be obtained in
the limited  time  allowed  for  the  preparation  of the  work.
These have been obtained principally from the official records of
the town, and are in the main correct, although there are, doubt-
less,  many errors  unavoidable  in  a list  containing so  many
names, —a fact which will be readily admitted by all who have
had experience in this kind of work.
One fact remains to be noticed, which is,  that the  sketch,
although published by the town committee, is  done under the
auspices of the Weymouth Historical  Society, for  the reason
that this association  has been for the past five  years actively
engaged in  gathering material for this very purpose, much of
which has been used in the  preparation of this  work.  It has
also published one work upon local town history,  and it  has
been thought wise to make this a second number of that series,
 - 29 - 
12                 SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
the first having passed into all of the prominent libraries of the
land and become well and favorably known ;    and further,  that
all of the collections of the society have been placed at the ser-
vice of the committee at no expense to the town, and its  mem-
bers are citizens  deeply interested and actively engaged in all
matters connected with town history ;   and also that while this
plan of publication will be of no loss to the town, it will be of
great service to the society.
Here, then, are the reasons for the publication of this workin
its present form, and a statement of some of the  difficulties to
be met and overcome in its preparation ;    and also an attempt to
give to the citizens a glimpse of the wealth of history belonging
to them, and which they may some day hope to inherit in  its
fulness, if they will do their work in its development.
 - 30 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
CHAPTEE I.
Geography —Geology—General History —Weston's Colony—Gorges's
Settlement —Hull's  Company —Ecclesiastical Troubles — Pequod
War—Emigration—Town Government.
Geography.—"Weymouth is  the most ancient town
in ^^"orfolk County, and, next to Plymouth, in the Com-
monwealth, and its  original boundaries have been pre-
served without material change until the present time;
therefore its  lines are the same for  any date in its his-
tory of two hundred and sixty years.   The town bor-
ders upon the shore of Boston Harbor, with its centre
about thirteen  miles  southeasterly  from Boston, and
I
about double that distance northwesterlyfrom Plymouth.
It  is  above nine miles in  extreme length from the
Abington line on the south, to the shore of the bay on
the north, with an average of about seven miles.   It lies
between Braintree  and  Holbrook on the  west,  and
Hingham on the east, with a width, nearly uniform, of
about two and a half miles.   It  has a water front on
Fore and Back Rivers of eight or nine miles, and its
whole  area  contains  between sixteen  and seventeen
square miles.   Of this  area  a  considerable portion  is
covered by ponds.  Great Pond, in the southerly part,
is about a mile and one third in length, and one third
of a mile in width, with a surface of about two hundred
and fifty acres.   Whitman's Pond, centrally located, is
about one third less in extent than Great Pond, being
 - 31 - 
14                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
nearly as long;, but of very irregular form.  Whortle-
berry Pond, a little south of Whitman's, is small, nearly
circular,  and about forty rods in diameter.  There are
but two streams of any irapoi'tance, —"Mill River," the
outlet to  Great Pond, running into Back River, a dis-
tance by its  course, in which it  passes through Whit-
man's Pond, of  five  or six miles,  and " Old Swamp
River," rising in Hingham and flowing into Whitman's
Pond, about two and one half or three miles in length.
These rivers have several very fine water privileges, one
of Avhieh, that ofthe East Weymouth Iron Company,has
been thought one of the best in the State.   There are
but two hills  of noticeable prominence in the town, —
Great Hill, on the shore of the bay, and King Oak Hill,
about two miles farther south.'   From the summits of
both  are to be seen some of the finest views in the
State.    There  are  two  inlets  making  in  from  the
bay, navigable for vessels of considerable size, —Fore
River on the north and west, four or five miles in length,
and Back River on the northeast, three or four miles
long.   The extreme northeasterly portion of the town
is  a long and narrow neck of land extending into the
bay for a mile and a half or more, while beyond this, to
the north, about eighty rods away, lies  Grape Island,
separated only by the narrow mouth of Back River, and
is  of an oblong shape, about half a mile in length and
sixty rods in width, while about two hundred rods far-
'  These two hills are regularly formed mounds, easily ascended, and
have been from the beginning of English occupation, favorite locations,
and have been under cultivation to their summits during the whole period
since that time.   Great Hill, early known as Smith's Hill, situated on the
verge of the bay in Ihe  extreme north, was a landmark  to the early
voyagers about Massachusetts Hay, and has since served the same useful
purpose to their successors.  There was formerly a road leading to ils
summit.  King Oak Hill has not so sharp an elevation, is situated farther
inland, and was evidently used by the emigrants as garden spots, as it was
divided into small lots.   It overlooks the country for a long distance in-
land, while on the east the view is bounded only by the ocean.
 - 32 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              15
ther to the north, in the bay, lies another small island,
called Sheep Island.^   Both of these belong to  Wey-
mouth, are wholly destitute of trees, and used only for
pasturage.
Almost the whole of the south part of the town is an
elevated  plateau, with a light  sandy or gravelly soil,
capable, with  good tillage,  of producing fair  crops.
The surface from this plain commences to  fall  away
with gentle undulations until it  reaches the sea.   The
northei'n portion has always enjoyed the reputation of
containing the best  land for cultivation, while only a
comparatively small portion of the whole area is  unfit
for  agricultural  purposes in  consequence  of swamp,
ledge, or bai'renness.   Formerly farming was the princi-
pal industry, and the larger portion of the population
gained their  livelihood from the produce of the  soil;
but during the present century manufactures have in-
creased to such an extent as  almost to exterminate the
former.   On Fore and Back Rivers a large amount of
business  is  done in lumber and coal,  while  the  Old
Colony and South Shore Railroads bring in great quan-
tities of grain, flour, and other necessaries.
For the first hundred years the town constituted one
precinct, but in 172d it was divided into two, the south
being somewhat the larger.   Quite recently, for practi-
cal and convenient purposes, it  has been divided into
five wards, —two at the south, one at  the  east, one at
the Landing, and one at the north.   Until 1793, Wey-
mouth constituted a part of Suffolk County, but in that
year I^orfolk County was established and Weymouth
made a part of it.    It has four post-offices, one in each
'  The following from the town record was copied from the General
Court records:  "A General  Court holden at  Boston the 7th  day of
10th mo. A. D. 1636.
" Round Island and Grape Island  are  granted  to  the  Towns of
Weymouth."
 - 33 - 
16                 SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
of the principal villages, with telegraphic and telephone
accommodations along the lines of the Old Colony and
South Shore Railroads, which cross the town at  differ-
ent points.
Geology.^ —Weymouth, geologically, is  a very an-
cient town.  The solid rock formations date far back in
the primitive ages, and its physical history, could it  be
told in detail, would be extremely interesting.   Therock
underlying a large portion of the town is  closely allied
to the famous granite beds of its near neighbor, Quincy,
but is  less  perfectly crystallized.   This bed rock is
everywhere pierced by veins of amygdaloid trap, often
many feet in width.  Belonging to  a later  period are
beds of dark slate or shale, extending across the north-
erly part of the town from Braintree to Hingham, and
cropping out upon the surface in huge seams at frequent
intervals.   These slates contain large quantities of iron
pyrites, and are cut by quartz veins in which are found
fine crystals.   There is also found in North Weymouth
another peculiar purplish slate which is full  of cavities
that seem once to have been filled with organic matter.
After the very early period in which these rocks were
formed, there comes a great gap in  the record of this
earth history as written by the pen of nature, until the
glacial  or ice period is  reached,  of which Weymouth
bears abundant and very marked testimony.   The un-
covered ledges are in many places very plainly scarred
with the parallel groovings or strice, and the surface is
covered with hills  of gravel and sand, or strewn with
bowlders of great variety and of all sizes up to that of
an ordinai-y dwelling-house.
'  The geological portion of the sketch was furnished by Eev. George
Wallace Shaw, formerly principal of the North High School, Weymouth,
now Congregationalist minister in Athol, Dakota, probably the best ac-
quainted of any one with the subject, having given it  a great deal of
attention.
 - 34 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              17
In various  parts  of the  town, particularly  in  the
north, bordering upon Back River,  are unusually fine
examples of the sharp, linea hills, called horsebacks or
kames, and glacial plains, both formed by the ice as it
melted or retreated towards the pole.
The hilly, rolling surface of Weymouth, especially in
the northerly portion,  is  due partly to the  upturned
ledges of granite, and partly to these hills  of glacial
gravel.   But little soil is  left  upon the rocky, gravelly
hills, most of the vegetable debris having been washed
into the swamps and peat-bogs.
General History. —The history of the town of
Weymouth covers a period of two hundred and sixty-
one years, and is no less fruitful in  important and stir-
ring events than that of any of its contemporaries.  The
early voyagers were attracted to it  by its  beautiful and
protected situation, shielded from the ocean bythe beach
and peninsula of ISTantasket, and from the Indians by its
position extending far into the bay, between the two
rivers.   Its central location made it also easy of access
both by water and land from a large reach of territory,
thus rendering it  a favorable point for trade with the
natives.   The wandering fishermen  and traders, who
were ranging the i^Tew England coast during the early
years of the  seventeenth century, soon discovered its
value and made it a point of rendezvous.  From it they
could easily slip out upon the ocean, and from it  they
could make such excursions upon the land as were
necessary in accomplishing their purposes.
The great companies were then looking for the men
and the places by whom and where they could carry out
their grand schemes, accumulate the fortunes and seize
the honors they foresaw already within their grasp
;
and,
not more scrupulous than some of their modern succes-
sors, they were not always as careful  as to the means
2
 - 35 - 
18                  SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
by which their purposes were to be accomplished as
might be desired.   Land was here in abundance, and its
rightful owners, if there were any, were few, ignorant,
and ofno fixed abode.  The geography of the coast was
not well understood; and it  easily happened that con-
flicts ofjurisdiction arose betweenthe various claimants
that caused, in after-times, no little  vexation and trou-
ble.   If the various grants came in conflict, the bounda-
ries were not well defined, and a fine position near the
border, once in possession, mightperhaps be held against
future comers.  It was a great distance from the courts
that held jurisdiction, and influences might be brought
to bear even upon those high in authority that would
renderthe result of a trial anythingbut certain.   Justice
was tardy, her eyes liable  to partial blindness, and her
hand held the scales in uncertain poise.   Thus the posi-
tion of things prepared the wayfor a train of events in-
volving a great deal of disturbance and perplexity, and
the  result was usually in favor of those  holding the
most money and home influence.
Such was the condition of afi'airs  during the  flrst
quarter of the seventeenth century. The Virginia Com-
pany, whose patent covered the southern portion of the
English possessions in America, established at James-
town, Va., in 1607, a colony which commenced a long
and severe struggle for existence.   In IGM the Dutch
began a settlement on Manhattan Island, at the mouth
of the Hudson,—an entering wedge between the two
portions of the continent claimed by England, —and
seven years later,  at the close of the year 1620, the
Plymouth Company, after  much discussion and bar-
gaining,  invited  the Pilgrims (then temporarily living
in Leyden, Holland), to embark for the coast of New
England, and the colony located at Plymouth, where the
resolute members of that community commenced their
hand-to-hand conflict  with the terrible  circumstances
 - 36 - 
/
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              19
against them, and which proved almost too great for
their strength.
The Westox Colony.* —Thus it  was  that  Mr.
Thomas Weston, a merchant of London, who had much
to do with the Pilgrims in their negotiations with the
Plymouth Company, and with an exalted opinion of the
value and future prosperity of the country, conceived
the idea ofan independent enterprise ofsimilar character,
which should unite in itself all  the elements of success
without cumbering itself with the discouragements that
surrounded the other settlement.   They would establish
a trading post by men without families which should af-
terwards grow up into a powerful state.  Consequently
in August, 1622, a company of about sixty able-bodied
men, selected —not so much for their special fitness for
the work proposed as for their willingness to undertake
it —from the migratory population of London, landed
from the  " Charity "  and  " Swan," two small  vessels
chartered for the purpose, upon the shore of Wessagus-
cus, about twenty-five miles north ofPlymouth, inside of
the entrance of a capacious bay, afterwards known as
Boston Harbor.  The spot has not been positively iden-
tified,  but tradition  points  to  the  northern  shore  of
Phillips Creek, a small inlet of Fore River (or Monati-
quot), about three or four miles from its  entrance into
the bay, —a well-protected, well-wooded and watered
'  For further details of the first companies thatcameto Weymouth,the
reader is  referred to the address of Charles Francis Adams, Jr., Esq.,
delivered at the 2o0th anniversary of the settlement of  Weymouth, cele-
brated July 4, 1874, and the authorities quoted in it.    Also to his article
read before the Massachusetts Historical Society and published in  its
papers, entitled  "Early Planters about  Massachusetts Bay," " Win-
slow's Good Newes," " Young's Chronicles of the Pilgrims," " Phinehas
Pratt's  Narrative,"  " Gov.  Bradford's  History," '    '  Levett's Voyage,"
"Morton's New English Canaan," "Force's Historical Tracts," and
other easily accessible authorities.
 - 37 - 
20                SKKTOn or WEYMOUTir.
spot, and one that promised well for the business pro-
posed.
As might have been expected, this company, with no
settled habits of industry and no extraordinary induce-
ments to form them now, not well disposed towards the
hard labor and deprivations necessary to the formation
of a settlement in a new and rugged country, and with-
out a competent head, soon became disgusted with their
enterprise,  neglected their  means of livelihood, broke
over the  comparatively friendly  relations upon which
thev had subsisted with the natives, and were soon in
great distress.   The severity of the winter, and their
neglect to make provisions for it, in a shorttime brought
them to  the point of starvation.   Their treatment of
their savage neighbors rendered them in the utmost de-
gree distrustful and timid.   In their want of food they
sent to their neighbors at  Plymouth for supplies, but
they,  nearly as badly off,  could not help them;  thus
the fish of the sea, the shell-fish of the beaches, and the
nuts and fruits of the forest, becametheir sole food.   In
their great fear of the Indians they applied to Plymouth
for assistance,  and that  colony sent  up Capt.  Miles
Standish with a file  of men, who speedily established
oi"der in the death of the principal aggressors.  Mean-
while, fully satisfied with their brief experiment of colo-
nial life, the "VVeston Colony disbanded, going in differ-
ent directions, andat the opening of the summer of 1623
not one was left upon the spot to claim ownership in the
name of the ill-fated company.'
Ten of the colony died of famine, two had been killed
*  This company wasunder the leadership of Eichard Greene, a brother-
in-law  of  Mr.  Weston, who, dying, was succeeded by John Sanders.
There werealso in this company a lawyer named Salisbury, and the after-
wards notorious Thomas Morton, of iVIerry Mount.  The whole company
consisted  of  about sixty  men, gathered from  London and vicinity.
—Aclams''s Address.
 - 38 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              21
and one wounded by the savages in their various en-
counters, and at the close of the spring, after the visit
of Capt, Standish, three of their number, the last of the
company, were cruell}^ tortui-ed to death by their Indian
neighbors with whom they had sought refuge.'  Afterthe
lapse of more than two and a half centuries, it may be
possible to form a more favorable estimate of the charac-
ter of the men who composed this  colony than  that
which has been usually accredited to them.  That they
were not the utterly depraved set they have been de-
scribed is  very evident.   In their intercourse with the
Plymouth people they certainly showed a disposition to
act fairly.  In an expedition made with them under con-
tract to trade with the Indians to the south, in the region
of Cape Cod, Mr. Weston's people took their full share
ofthe labor and privation, acting with energy and hon-
orably discharging  all  their  obligations.^   Even their
associates in this enterprise offer no complaints in this
respect.   When one of their number had shown himself
a notorious thief, and had committed serious depreda-
tions upon their Indian neighbors, he was given up at
their complaint, and, as the sufferers declined to judge
the culprit, the colonists proceeded to execute summary
justice by hanging him.  It may be said that this  act
was the result of fear, but it  is hardly fair  to ascribe a
dishonorable motive when a better one appears in the
exhibition of it.    Theyhad not that high moral purpose,
neither were theyactutated bythat strong religious faith,
that  governed their  Pilgrim  contemporaries.   They
were not flying from persecution in their own land to
seek a home for themselves and their families,  where
they could enjoy  comparative  freedom of conscience
'  Phinehas  Pratt's  narrative  in  Massachusetts  Historical Society's
Collection, Ser. 4, Vol. IV.
2 Gov.  E.  Winslow's  Eelation,  Massachusetts  Historical  Society's
Collection, Ser. 4, Vol. IV.
 - 39 - 
22                SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
and life,  at  the  expense of  most of life's  comforts.
Thej were men with no famiUes, who undertook the
enterprise  to earn a  living,  and, it  may be,  make a
fortune with which to return home.  More than this,
they were under no competent leadership, Mr. Weston
remaining  behind,  and his  agent intrusted  with the
charge of the colony during its  early days dying in  a
short time.   Had they  come with families  dependent
upon them, with the result resting upon their own exer-
tions, the issue might have been different.   Their faults
seem to have come from the want of proper training
with its  consequent improvidence, and the  lack of a
sufficient motive.
GoEGEs's Settlement.—The natural attractions of
Wessaguscus did not suffer it  to remain long unoccu-
pied, for in the autumn of the same year, 1623,' or in
the late  summer, it  is  not quite  certain  which, Capt.
Robert Gorges, son of Sir Fernando Gorges, acting un-
der a charter fromthe Plymouth Company,the Council of
'New England, came with a company consisting, in part,
at least, of families and of character superior to that of
those who had preceded them, with the evident inten-
tion of forming a permanent settlement.   They landed
upon the northern part of the town, probably near or
upon the spot chosen by the Weston people the year
before, thinking, undoubtedly, that this was covered by
the grant which was so indefinitely described as to be
easily susceptible of misconstruction.  This gave them
ten miles of the coast on the northeast side of Massa-
chusetts Bay and extending thirty miles inland.   They
chose their ten miles evidently to include the entrance to
'  Mr. Adams says about the middle of September.  In Sir Fernando
Gorges's description of New England he says, " my son arrived [at Wes-
saguscus] about the beginning of August, 1623." —Massachusetts Histor-
ical Collection, Ser. 3, Vol. VI. p. 74.
 - 40 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              23
Boston Harbor; and this  mistake, if mistake it  were,
was the cause of much trouble in the future.
The leader of this company is  well known in history,
but of the menwho composed it little has been recorded;
even their number is not known, the names of very few
being mentioned, and those with a great deal  of un-
certainty.^
It is, however, a well-ascertained fact that the colony
was projected to favor the establishment of the govern-
mentmore firmly on the 'New England shore, and to pre-
pare a foundation upon which the Episcopacy might rear
its future prosperity, and also as an offset to the threat-
ened opposition that might possibly arise from the then
insignificant attempt at Plymouth.  The project, there-
fore, carried upon its face the evidence of ministerial and
ecclesiastical favor; hence it  did not meet with much
assistance  from the  Pilgrims, from whom there  have
come not the most favorable reports.   To further  the
authority of the Church and to  form a legal basis of
future action, the colony brought a regular chaplain or
clergyman of the Church of England, in the person of
Rev. William Morrell, a man of education and stand-
ing, of excellent character, with power sufiicient for the
purpose intrusted to his care, the establishment of the
claims of the Church in the wilderness, and also to act
as its  bishop when the enterprise should develop suffi-
ciently to need the services of such an officer.
The plan of the colony was projected upon a scale of
magnificent proportions and with machinery sufficient
to conduct the affairs of an empire.  Capt. Gorges was
named as  governor-general, with a general oversight
of the company's officers in America, and authority by
commission to  carry out his  plans.   Associated with
him in the government were Capt. Francis West, ad-
'   See " Early Planters about Massachusetts Bay," by C. F. Adams,
Jr., Esq.
 - 41 - 
24                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
miral, Christopher Levet, Esq., perhaps the chief judi-
cial officer,  and such  others  as the  governor-general
chose to appoint, any two of whom, with himself, were
empowered to transact any business necessary for the
governmentofthe colony.   The governor ofPlymouth,
for the time being, was constituted a member of the
government, and immediately upon the arrival  of the
company, in August or September, Gov. Bradford was
notified  of the fact,  and at  once  made his  arrange,
ments to  make the new-comers  a  call ;     but  before
this  could be effected,  the governor-general, while on
a tour of inspection  over his extended domains, was
forced by stress of weather into Plymouth, where he re-
mained a few days, and then returned overland to Wes-
saguscus.  Very soon, however, he became satisfied with
his  experience as a ruler in  the  new settlement and
returned to England with a considerable portion of his
company; others  of the party went to Virginia, and
some to Plymouth, while some remained as the nucleus
of the future settlement.   Mr. Morrell appears to have
remained here for perhaps a year and a half, and de-
spairing of an accomplishment of his purpose in coming
hither, went to Plymouth and took passage for Eng-
land.'
In the course of the year 1624, there came in other
settlers from Weymouth, England, bringing with them
a non-conformist minister by the name of Barnard, who
remained with them and died there.   The records of
this time are so bare and scanty that nothing more than
the fact of this addition is known.  From this time un-
til  the arrival  of Gov. Winthrop at  Shawmut, there
is more or less mention of the settlement at Wessagus-
cus, and a continual though small accession to its mem-
bers.   The most notorious event of this period was the
'  Bradford and Hazard.
 - 42 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              25
arrest there, in 1628, ofThomasMorton, ofMerry Mount,
as  Mount Wollaston was then called,  by Capt. Miles
Standish, by the order  of the  Plymouth authorities,
taken to that town, and sent to England.^  In 1630 and
the following years, the settlement was recognized as a
part of the Massachusetts Bay Colony and taxed for
its  support.^  In 1632, Gov. Winthrop, with a party of
friends, visited Plymouth, by vessel to "Wessaguscus or
Wessagusset (it was called byeither name),  thence over-
land.   On their way in going and returning they were
generously  entertained by the people of that place.^
During that year a tax was ordered by the Court, five
pounds of which was levied on Wessaguscus, eight on
Boston, andfour pounds ten shillings on Salem, showing
the relative importance of the towns."*   In 163 i   it was
spoken of as a small village.^   In 1634 it  was ordered
to pay the charges incurred in taking care of Thomas
Lane, a servant of John Burslyn (Bursley), of that set-
tlement, who had fallen sick in Dorchester.^
Hull Company. —In 1635 the place came into gen-
eral  notice and took a prominent position among the
towns composing the Massachusetts Bay Colony.  On
the 8th of July, of that year, the General Court passed
an order permitting Rev. Joseph Hull, with twenty-one
families, consisting of about one hundred persons,  to
settle at Wessaguscus,—the largest addition at any one
time probably in the history of the town.  These set-
tlers came from Weymouth, England, and belonged to
'  Bradford's Letter Book, Massachusetts Historical Collection, Ser. 1,
Vol. IIL p. 61; Morton's New English Canaan.
2 Massachusetts Colonial Records, Sept. 28, 1630; also for the following
years.
« Savage's Winthrop, Vol. L p. 192.
*  Massachusetts Colonial Records, Feb. 3, 1631-2.
^  Wood's New England Prospect; Young's Chronicles, p. 894.
® Massachusetts Colonial Records,
 - 43 - 
26                 SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
the county of Dorset and its immediate neighborhood.*
They were a class of people who soon became promi-
nent, and whosefamilies, many of them, retain their posi-
tion at the present day.   Their minister, Rev. Joseph
Hull, became for a time the minister of the town.  On
the 2d of September, the town was erected into a plan-
tation, equivalent, probably, to an act of incorporation,
and the name changed to Weymouth,which it has since
retained.^   On the following day it was ordered to send
a deputy to  the General Court, to  which office  Wil-
liam  Reade, John Bursley, and John Upham were
elected, these three being sent as an accommodation to
three  strong, opposing elements then existing in the
town, consisting, probably, of those whoremained ofthe
Gorges Company and friends who followed them, those
who came in from other towns in the colony with an in-
terest centring in the capital,  and a third, embracing
those who came with Rev. Joseph Hull and their sym-
pathizers; John Bursley representing  the first,  Wil-
liam Reade the second, and John Uphamthe third.   The
court influence predominating, Mr. Reade was retained
andthe others werepermittedto retire.  Duringthe years
1635 and 1636, commissioners were appointed to  estab-
lish the bounds between Mount Wollaston and Wey-
mouth,  of which Fore River and the  Smelt Brook
formed a part, thence by a straight line running south
a little westerly, until it  reached the  line  of Plymouth
Colony; also, between Weymouth and Bare Cove, after-
wards Hingham, of which line Back River and a creek
called  Fresh River formed a  part,  thence  on a line
nearl}^ parallel with the western boundary to the Plym-
outh Colony line.   These bounds, which were the more
ancient ones re-established, have remained to the present
time with little if any change.^
'   See Appendix A.
Massachusetts General Court Records, 1635.
^ Massachusetts General Court Records, 16o5.
 - 44 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              27
Ferries had already been erected, connecting the town
with its neighbors on either hand, and bridges were pro-
jected for the better accommodation oftraffic and travel.
Roads were built towards Boston, and mills erected upon
the streams.   A quarterly court was established, to be
held  in Boston, to  which Roxbury, Dorchester,  Wey-
mouth, and Hingham belonged;    and for the better pro-
tection  of the various  towns in the  colony from the
Indians, it  was ordered by the General Court that no
dwelling-house should be built  more than half a mile
from the meeting-house.*  It appears, however, that the
latter order was never enforced, or soon became a dead
letter, for at this  time the people of Weymouth were
scattered over a territory from two to three miles in ex-
tent.   The larger part of the population lived in North
Weymouth, commonly known as " Old Spain," extend-
ing fromthe shore ofthe bay to Burying Hill, more than
a mile, while there were quite a number of plantations
extending south and east over King Oak Hill as far as
Fresh Pond, now Whitman's, in East Weymouth.
Where the first meeting-house was built is unknown,
but tradition says in Old Spain, probably near what is
now the centre of the village;  but this did not long re-
main, giving place to a more commodious building which
stood upon Burying Hill, near where North Street now
passes through it.    This remained until 1682, when a
third was erected upon the spot now occupied by the
meeting-house of the First Parish.   The houses of the
inhabitants weremostly rude structures built oflogs, and
thatched with the coarse grass found at the head of the
beaches above the salt water, which was carefully pre-
served for the purpose by order of the town.^  In 16fi,
April 26, the Indian title to the town was extinguished
bypurchase.  Theoriginal deedis not to be found, but a
1  Massachusetts General Court Records, 1635.
2 Weymouth Town Records, 1649.
 - 45 - 
28                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
copy stands  upon the records of the  Suffolk County
registry of deeds, and is a curious specimen of the sharp
trading which the early fathers allowed themselves to
indulge in  when dealing with the native  owners.  It
was signed by Wampetuck, alias Josias Webecowett,
Nateaunt, and I^^ahowton, sachems.^
Church Troubles. —During the early years of the
town it was very mucli disturbed by internal dissensions
in the  church.  From 1635,  on  the  arrival  of Rev.
Joseph Hull and his company, until 1644, upon the set-
tlement of Rev. Thomas Thacher, there was almost con-
stant tumult and disturbance, sometimes so  serious as
to draw the attention of the General Court.  About the
years 1637 and 1638 there were no less than four claim-
ants for the Weymouth pulpit, each with a strong party
at his  command; the  old  Gorges  settlers, the  later
comers from Dorchester, Boston and vicinity,  and the
recent Hull arrivals, while the fourth,  coming with a
view  of  harmonizing  the  differences,  only  added
another element to  the  discord.   The Episcopal ele-
ment was still  strong, but apparently not enough so
to propose a candidate of its  own views; the Puritan
party, which sustained Rev. Thomas Jenner; the  1635
settlers, under the leadership of Rev. Joseph Hull, an
independent,  with Episcopalian  antecedents;  and  a
strong party who had invited Rev. Robert Lenthal, who
was suspected of favoring the views of Mrs. Hutchin-
son.   Rev. Samuel ]^ewman was summoned to heal the
breach, but he found the trouble too serious  for his
powers.   The departure of all  these contestants, and
the settlement of Rev. Thomas Thacher, appeared to
resolve the difficulty.^
'  This copy of the Indian deed of Weymouth is taken from the Suf-
folk deeds, and is also found upon the Weymouth Town Eecords.  (See
Appendix B.)
^ See Ecclesiastical History, in Chapter X. of this sketch.
 - 46 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.              29
In December, 163G,  the  General  Court  ceded  to
Weymouth, 0-rape Island and Round Island, the only
additions  ever  made to  its  territory/    During the
eight years from the arrival  of Kev. Joseph Hull,  in
1635, to the  departure of Rev. Samuel !N^ewman, in
1G43, Weymouth had gained largely in population and
had become one of the most important towns  in  the
colony.   The records of the latter  year, previous  to
the departure of Rev. Mr. Newman to Rehoboth with
a large colony, estimated by some as high as forty fam-
ilies,  contained the names of more than one hundred
and thirty land-owners, representing, most  of them,
heads of families.    These records are  imperfect, and
probably do not represent by many the whole number.^
It is at this time that the regular records of the town
commence, from  which date they are  comparatively
good, probably as full  as  the  average  of the  town
records of the colony.   Earlier than this the peculiar
circumstances surrounding the settlement conspired to
envelop the history in much obscurity.   The natural
jealousy of the Pilgrims against the adherents of the
Established Church, from which they had suffered so
much, prevented them from making any fuller record
than was absolutely necessary of their  neighbors  at
Wessaguscus; and later, the Puritans at Boston were
in the same condition and no better disposed, although
on their own territory and under their own jurisdic-
tion ;   while still later, the disturbances produced by the
conflicting  elements  in  its  own midst prevented the
preservation of records that would be of inestimable
value at the present time.
Pequod Wak.—The Indians upon the territory of
the town were never numerousfrom the first visits of the
•  Massachusetts General Court Eecords; Weymouth Town Records.
2 See Appendix C.
 - 47 - 
30                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
whites to  its  shores, and this was one reason for  its
selection as a favorable location for a settlement; yet,
notwithstanding its retired position, it was not without
its share of damage from its  savage enemies in other
parts of the province, and it was always called upon for
its quota of men and taxed for its share of the expense.
As early  as  1637, of the one hundred and sixty men
called for to  serve against the Pequods, five were to
come from Weymouth; '    and from this  time until the
close of the King Philip war, in 1676, the town was
always a contributor in men and money to sustain the
various expeditions sent against the  Indians.   From
that time the immediate danger was not felt,  yet her
soldiers  were found upon the  bloody fields  of New
York and Canada, fighting for the preservation of their
homes, although so far away.
Emigration.—The first large colony sent out from
"Weymouth was that under the charge of Rev. Samuel
Newman, to Rehoboth, and numbered, by the best ac-
counts, about forty families.^  Fromthat time, butusually
in small companies, often but a single family,  the  tide
fiowed away, and the town saw its  population slowly
diminish by the constant drain upon it  to supply the
calls  of the frontier.   First Maine, New Hampshire,
Vermont, and the western part of this  State,  Rhode
Island,  and Connecticut made large demands.  Then
followed the calls from New York and the other Mid-
dle States, and still later the vast West, which have all
been abundantly answered, until not  a  State  in  the
Union, and hardly a county or town, but has one or
more of the sons of Weymouth to represent it.    This
condition of things could not fail  to be seriously felt,
and the town was severely crippled by it,  so much so
'  Massachusetts General Court Kecords, Vol. I. pp. 174-177.
2 See Bliss's History of Eehoboth.
 - 48 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              31
that from 1643, for one hundred and fifty  years, the
gain was hardly perceptible, sometimes a period of gain
to  be more than otFset  by a corresponding period of
loss, while the actual increase for the whole time was
so small as to  be hardly appreciable.  If  the estimate
for 1643 of at least one hundred and fifty families be
correct, and  an average of  six to  the  family  a fair
allowance, a population of nine hundred at that time
against fourteen hundred, the estimate for  1776, will
show the truth of this statement.
Towisr Government.—Like that  of nearly all  of
the early settlements, the government of the town was
of a very simple pattern.   Town meetings were called
as  necessity  demanded,  at  irregular  intervals;  and
townsmen, afterwards known as selectmen, chosen at
times and in number most convenient.   The  officers
seem to have been their own recorders, since no regu-
lar clerk appears for twenty or thirty years.   Meetings
were notified upon training or lecture days by public
call,  and such business  was  transacted  as  the  time
demanded.'   When and how the  first  land  grants
were made is  not known, but probably upon the earli-
est settlement the lands were divided as the needs of
the settlers appeared;   that remaining was held in  com-
mon.  Alarge portion of the north part of the town
was occupied, and as early as 1636 there is record of a
division  of  great  lots  at  the  lower end  of  Fresh
•  The records of the town meeting held ISTov. 26, 1651, contain, quite
in detail, the mannerin which the town adapted itself to its changed cir-
cumstances, andadopted by-laws andregulations forits government which
proved sufficient for its wants for more than a hundred and fifty years.
Until this time there were only such officers  elected and such business
transacted as the circumstances of the occasion demanded; no clerk or
assessors appear before this time; now these officers were recognized as
a part of the town government, and the local business of the town as-
sumed a regular and established form.
 - 49 - 
32                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
(Whitman's) Pond, some two or three miles from the
shore of the bay.
In 1G4.'>  a partial  record of the then property own-
ers  was made which has  been preserved.^   Most of
the  early records are filled  with regulations  respect-
ing  cattle,  cutting of timber,  and such public  mat-
ters  as  seem to be called for.   The earliest  officers,
after townsmen, named upon the  records,  are  fence-
viewers, and the  number and prominence of the men
appointed to this position show it  to have been at least
no sinecure.   There was the strictest scrutiny into the
character and purpose of those who came among them.
As early as 1646 a  vote was passed forbidding any
inhabitant from taking as an inmate any stranger with-
out giving the town an indemnity bond against damage,
under a penalty of a fine of five shillings per week; nor
could he sell  or let to  any such person house or land,
without having first tendered the same to the town at a
training, lecture, or other public meeting.^
During those early days  fi*equent regulations were
made for the preservation of pine and cedar, indicating
a waste of that material.   In 1648, Widow Hillard was
required to give the town security against harm from
the charges of her children.   At the first settlement, the
town set apart  the shore land between high and low
water marks for thatching purposes, thatch being at
that time the most important material for roofing pur-
poses, and there appeared to be a necessity to provide
for its preservation;  and when the General Court after-
wards ordered that all  lands to low-water mark should
belong to  the proprietors  of the  adjoining land, this
regulation of the town was respected, and an exception
made in its favor.^
The highways were a matter of prime importance at
'   See Appendix C.       2 Town Records.        Town Records.
 - 50 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              33
an early date, and as far back as 1649 the inhabitants
were required to work them at the call of the "way-
warden," under penalty.   In 1650-1, March 1,  a vote
was passed requiring the officers to post notices of the
assessment of rates, and all  persons liable to taxation
were required to bring in lists  of polls  and property
under penalty.   March 10, 1651, the town voted to fine
all such as should be tardy at town meetings six pence
for each hour the meeting continued.  The rates were
to be laid so that the town bills could be promptly paid,
particularly Capt. Perkins's ten pounds for six months'
schooling, which is the first notice upon the record in
relation to school matters.^
About this time the town business had accumulated to
such a degree that it  became necessary to adopt more
systematic measures in relation to its conduct.
Regularmeetings wereto be held on the first Monday
in March and the last Monday of ISTovember, for the
choice of officers and general business, while unimpor-
tant matters could be regulated on lecture days without
notice; and all military affairs were to be decided upon
training days.   The townsmen were also  required  to
make report  of the  action  taken  at  their  meetings.
The first annual town meeting was held 'Nov. 26, 1651,
for the choice of town officers, and the townsmen are
now for the first time called " selectmen," a title  which
they have since retained.   The powers of these officers
are given upon the record with minute detail, and the
business of the town seems to have been settled u]3on in
nearly the same form that it bears at present.
The necessity  of a town clerk was apparent,  and
Deacon John Kogers was chosen " recorder," his special
duty being that of clerk to the selectmen.  At this time
there is a record made of those entitled to the great lots
*  Town Eecords.
3
 - 51 - 
34                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
near Wbitman^s Pond, numbering about sixty persons.
Jan. 24, 1G52-3, two thousand acres were set apart as
town commons, running across the town from Braintree
to Hingham, and near the centre from north to south;
at the same time Thomas Dyer was chosen to record
births, deaths, and marriages, and William Torrey re-
corder of deeds, etc.   Thetown records seemat this time
to havebeen in two divisions, each with its clerk, one for
the personal and the other for the general record.   In
16G3 there is  a record of the  names, number of lot
and acres, of each person who was allotted land in the
first  and second  divisions,  beginning  on  Braintree
line.'   (See Appendix C.)
For many years the records are mainly taken up with
domestic matters, regulations for cattle, running boun-
dary lines with other and adjacent towns and between
different estates, locating and improving the highways,
and managing the town commons, which was a matter
of no small moment in those days.   The sexton's duties
were prescribed and looked after, and all parish matters,
neither few nor small, were transacted by the town in
public meeting, since the town and precinct were one.
As early as 1667 there was found a necessity to en-^
large the  capacity of the meeting-house, the seating
showing a gradual increase in population.  At the same
time there was an increased call upon the town clerk in
the matter of recording grants, and  for  copying, so
large as to demand compensation, which was voted at
the rate of one shilling for grants, six pence for a copy,
and three shillings four pence for recording the assess-
ors' rates.^
In 1668, Lieut. Holbrook was appointed  with full
powers to  answer the "presentment" of the  General
Court in relation to the highways.
'  Town Records.              ^ Town Records.
 - 52 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              35
At the March meeting, 1669-70, a committee was
chosen to procure a " new town book," upon which all
of the affairs of the town should be correctly kept, and
it is not at all unlikely that the oldest  book of records
now in possession of the town is the identical book pur-
chased at this time, since in  it  are references to  older
books not now to befound.
^
'  Town Records.
1408244
 - 53 - 
36                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
CHAPTER II.
King Philip War—Company of Horse —Town Affairs —Sir Edmund
Andros —Military Company—Canadian Expedition —Local  Mat-
tel's —TownBoundaries—ISTew Precinct—Dr. White —Town Regu-
lations —Parsonage Property—Pigwacket Indians—TownCommons
—Throat Distemper —French and Indian Wars —Prench Neutrals
—Dr. Tufts —Plighways—South Precinct.
KrisTG  Philip  "War. —During  the  period  from
1651 to l'o75 the town had been steadily growing in
population and wealth, and laying the  foundations  of
future prosperity, unconscious of the  dark days before
it.    The people were upon, the  shore of the bay, far
removed from danger of savage beasts  or men;  but
trouble was gathering, and the ill-feeling  between the
white settlers and the Indians on the  southern borders
had risen  to  that  point that it  needed but an event
of small importance in itself to bring about an outburst
of hostilities.   Such an event happened in the mur-
der of a white man by an Indian, and the  execution of
the offender.   This was an opportunity too favorable to
be resisted by the young braves, and the attack upon
Swanzey, June 24, 1675, was the result.
Upon this practical declaration of war, sides were at
once taken, the savages eagerly thirsting to obtain their
long accumulation of revenge, while the  colonies  of
Plymouth and  Massachusetts  Bay joined  hands for
mutual aid and defence.   Troops were quickly mus-
tered and took the field in hope of a speedy crushing of
their terrible foe.
But they reckoned without their  host.   Philip  of
Pokanoket was no ordinary opponent, and the events of
 - 54 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.              37
the following two years were such a record of horror as
the settlements had never before seen and were never
afterwards to know.  All through the State, from Mas-
sachusetts Bay to  the  Connecticut River, the Indians
spread with the utmost rapidity, carrying terror  and
dismay into every household.  They seemed to  be ubi-
.quitous, a^Dpearing in places widely distant at  the same
time, and only to burn and kill.
The history of this deplorable war is  too well known
to  be repeated.  More than a dozen towns were de-
stroyed and half a million of money expended, while
it is estimated that more than six hundred young men
were slain or died in the service, or one in  twenty of
the producing citizens, and one family in  every twenty
was burned out.   Contributions came in from various
sources.   Connecticut, which had escaped the ravages
of the war, sent a thousand bushels of corn, and other
places were equally prompt with their  sorely needed
aid.   Even across the ocean friends appeared, and Ire-
land sent forward a generous gift.
It will  be sufficient to  say that Weymouth was not
the least among the suti'erers.   At the very beginning
of  hostilities  (Feb.  12,  1675)  an  attack  was made
upon the  town,  and several  houses burnt.^   At the
call  of the State  the men of  Weymouth responded
heartily to defend their homes from the ravages of the
destroyer, and in  the return made by Capt. William
Torrey, on behalfof the Committee of Militia of Wey-
mouth, Dec. 1,  1675,  appear the  names  of  twelve
volunteers, and nearly all  of those names were of her
known and honored citizens.^   In  March following,
'  SeeN. E. Gen. Eegister, Vol. VII. p. 143.
2 Among the papers presei'ved in the archives at the State House, Bos-
ton, is found the following (Vol. LXVIII. p. 77): " Dec. 1, 1675.  These
are to certify the honorable counsell that in observance of a warrant to me
directed from the honorable Major, we have called together the soldiers
 - 55 - 
38                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
the town was again attacked by a band of Indians who
were on their way to  Plymouth  Colony, and  seven
houses and barns were burned;' while in February pre-
ceding several men had been killed in  the  town.^  So
many men had been drawn away from the  place for
frontier service, that not enough remained for their own
defence, and the exigency was so great that on the
26th of March, 1676, a petition was presented to the gov-
ernor and council, signed by the same William Torrey,
and on the same behalf, urging the recall  of the men
then on the frontier  for  the protection of their own
homes.  Then follow the  names of these,  ten in  all,
none of them belonging to the preceding list.    These,
too, were all young men of character and promise.^
last listed, and divided your arms and ammunition, and hope they will
appear complete when they are called out upon service.   We have also
viewed the clothing, and have taken order for the supply of such as did
desire it, but the most did refuse to be provided for, choosing rather to
provide it  themselves.  The names of those that are provided for this
service are as follows: Ilezekiah King, Jonas Humphrey,Joseph Richards,
Allen Dugland, John Whitmarsh, Zachariah Gurney, John Reed, John
Fford, John Lovill, Sen ,  William Mellis, John Burrell, Edward Kingman.
William Torrey, in the nameand by the order of the Committee of Militia
for Weymouth."
New England Memorial, Nathaniel Morton, p. 437.
2N. E Gen. Register, Vol. VII. p. 343.
* "To the honorable Governor and Counsel assembled at Boston:
" The humble request of the Committee of the Militia of Weymouth.
" Humbly showeth. that for as much as the numbers of men are far less
than  those  of  Hingham and no greater than those  of  Brantry and
whereas we understand tliat both Hingham and Braintry have all, or very
near all their men set at liberty from the country service to attend the
defence of their towns and furthermore considering that our town by
reason of the disadvantageous situation of it is more hardly defended than
either of theirs, they being more plane and compact, therefore our hum-
ble request to your Honors, is,  that we having ten able men upon the
country service at those Towns upon Connecticut river, may have them
set at liberty and sent home by your Honors' order, because of the great
want of men for our defense, especially at this time when we are in daily
expectation of the enemy.  The confidence and assurance which we have
of your great care for our defence, both embolden us unto this request,
which if  you shall see meet in your pleasure to grant, it will be a great
 - 56 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              39
April 19, 1676, Sergt. Thomas Pratt was killed  at
Weymouth.  And again the petition  comes  up  from
the distressed settlement, upon a demand for  six more
men by the State, representing in the most vivid colors
the dangers oftheir position and the absolute necessity
that the men should remain at home and defend their
own firesides, " who when we are most are but a small
company, and we have ten men out already and have
the enemy appearing daily at our very doors, four killed
already, all in danger wheresoever we go; in expecta-
tion every day and hourofbeing assaulted, stand continu-
ally upon our guard, whereby planting is obstructed and
all things turning into confusion and destruction "; and in
a postscript the writer,  Capt.  William Torrey,  adds:
" Just at this instant saw appearing of fire and smoke
about the Town, whereby we certainly know that the
enemy is very near us." ^
encouragement to us, but if  otherwise, we shall humbly acquiese in your
pleasure concerning it and pray as in duty we are bound ever.
" Maech 28, 1676.
" William Torrey in the name of the Committee of the Militia of Way-
mouth."
The names of the men are Joshua Phillips, John Arnold, John Eecord,
Benjamin Pool, John Luddon, Abi-am Shaw, Kobert Corbet, Isaac Cake-
bread, Jeremiah Clothier, JohnAshdown.  Massachusetts Archives, Vol.
LXVUI. p. 179 (State House).
'   " To the much honored Governor and Council now in Boston.  The
humble petition of the Committee of Militia for Waymouth.
" Humbly showeth, that your poor petitioners have this morning re-
ceived a warrant from the honorable Major for the impressing of six able
men fitted lor service both with arms, ammunition, and provision, which
we shall endeavor to do, and ai-e in the execution of said warrant, but we
most humbly beseech your honors to consider of our present distressed
and distracted condition, who when we are most, are but a small com-
pany, and we have ten men out already, and have the enemy appearing
daily at our very doors, four killed by the enemy, already, all  in danger
wheresoever we go, unlike to have any help from any other, in expecta-
tion every day and hour, of being assaulted, stand continually upon our
guard, whereby planting is  obstructed, and all  things turning into con-
fusion and destruction, not knowing how to dispose of our cattle, which
 - 57 - 
40                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Astill  later letter from the same hand continues the
story of trouble and alarm, and it  was only upon the
death of Philip and the annihilation of his forces that
the terror quieted and the settlement calmed down into
its wonted peace.  Howmanymenwere furnished by this
town for service in this war it  is impossible nowto de-
termine,   as the records are very imperfect, and it is only
by incidental mention in contemporaneous writings that
most of the facts  now known have been preserved.
The twenty-nine men whose names are preserved were
but a part of those who were thus engaged;   others are
known to have " foughtin the bloody war."  On Oct. 12,
1676, an abatement was made by the General Court in
favor  of Weymouth on account  of its  losses by the
enemy, and ten days later the taxes of those persons
" slayne in the war" were levied on the whole town.^
Later on, March 23,  1678, there is  the petition  of
John Lovel, ofWeymouth, to be paid for service in this
were wont to go into the woods, now cannot
;
they will starve us, or we
shall starve them, and this is a little of our deplorable condition.
" Wherefore our humble petition and request to your Honors, is, that if
you cannot afford us any help, for the preservation of our lives, which
now are in danger (and which is the only thing we have care of), that
you will please to pity us, and so far to lend an ear to our humble re-
quest, as that our men now impressed, may be discharged and returned
to us again, and we hope we shall respectfully acknowledge it, as a great
favor and still remain your honors' humble servants.
" Wm. Torrey, in the name of, and by the order of the Committee of
Militia for Weymouth.
" Just at this instant saw appearing of fire and smoke about tlie Town,
whereby we certainly know that the enemy is  very near us.".—Mass,
Archives, Vol. LXVIII. p. 233 (State House).
" Besides these twenty-two men already enumeratedin Mr. Torrey's let-
ters there were William Read, James Stuart, John Hollis, Thomas Bay-
ley, Samuel White, Richard Adams, and Jacob Nash, and probably others.
"Onthe 24th May, 1676, Weymouth was assessed £254 13s. 4d., to Bos-
ton's £3,000.  On the following June, Weymouth is  credited  by paying
assignments, and is  afterwai'ds assessed for sundry accounts £37 2s. 6d."
—6?. M. Budge, of Dorchester.
'Records of the  General Court, Vol. V. p. 124;  and in Massachu-
setts Archives, Vol. LXIX. p. 177 (State House).
 - 58 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              41
war;  and Oct. 7,  Richard Euss, also  of Weymouth,
a wounded soldier, was allowed forty shillings for his
cure.^      Anight-watch was also kept upin the town as
late as the summer of that year, showing that the alarm
had not wholly subsided.^
Company of Hoese.—In 1679, in the fall, a com-
pany of horse was formed, which continued its organi-
zation for a number of years ;  and a year later, by order
of the General Court, the soldiers of Weymouth, with
those  of  the  other  towns in  Suffolk  County,  were
organized  into  a regiment,  under the   command of
Major William Stoughton, thus anticipating any occa-
sion that might arise which should call for troops.^
Town Affairs. —'Noy.  26, 1683,  an important
change in the manner of choosing the selectmen was
effected by a vote of the following import, " that after
this year the selectmen shall be chosen by '  papers,' as
the law provides," and this is  the first  appearance of
the ballot in Weymouth.
At a meeting held on the second Tuesday ofMarch,
1 685-6,  the  following  curious  record  occurs:       " Ca-
leb  Littlefield, living  in  the  house formerly Thomas
White's, warned to leave town, not being an inhabitant,
or bring security to the selectmen."  He still  remained
in town, and a request was made to the General Court
to enter a caution upon its  records, that he or his may
not become chargeable to the town, should they come
to want.  Such was the care taken that no unnecessary
burden should be thrown upon the people.   In the fol-
'  Massachusetts Archives, Vol. LXIX. pp. 188, 189 (State  House);
General Court Records, Yol. V. p. 206.
2 Town Records.
* Records of the General Court, Vol. V. p. 294 (State House).
* Town Records.
 - 59 - 
42                SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
lowing autumn it was voted " that the selectmen should
have their dinners at the town's charge when they meet
for business." ^
On March 7,  1G91-2, after various changes in the
time  of  holding  the  annual  meetings,  the  town
returned  to  the former custom of holding two each
year, one on the "last Second day of November, and
the other on the first  Second day of March," which all
of the inhabitants who were voters should be obliged to
attend, under a  penalty  of eighteen pence  for  each
absence.^
Sir Edmund Andkos.—The advent of Sir Edmund
Andros as governor of the colony, in December, 1(586,
was the beginning of a series of important events bear-
ing upon its  political  fortunes.   Hitherto the  colonies
had been permitted a large degree of freedom in the
management of  their  local  affairs,  and the governor
seldom interfered; now, everything was to give way to
the  will  of the  executive,  whose power was nearly
absolute.   Learning and religion were given the go-by
in lack of the usual supports.   Town meetings were
only allowed for the choice of town officers,  not for
deliberation on important matters.   The vote by ballot
was rejected.   Personal liberty and the ancient customs
were disregarded.  None could leave the country with-
out special permit.   Probate fees were increased to an
alarming  degree.  Oaths w^ere  administered  on  the
Bible, to  which Puritans would never consent.   The
Episcopal service, never before established in the col-
ony, must have its place, and a meeting-house in Boston
was demanded for  the  purpose.  Heavy taxes  were
levied, which were generally refused.   Writs of habeas
corpus were withheld, and the laws of England denied
'   Towu llecords.                ^ Town Records.
 - 60 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              43
to  the people of the colony.   Men were tried,  fined,
and imprisoned for refusal, until even the clergy coun-
selled resistance.   The rights of property were denied,
and old grants must be renewed at a high rate of fees,
while grants under the charter were declared void by
its forfeiture.   Indian deeds were worthless.
Lands had been held under grants from the General
Court to the towns and from the towns to individuals.
These were now declared to be " not worth a rush."
Possession and use were pleaded in vain by the answer,
" You use and possess for the king."  The common
law and the Bible were brought forward in testimony
only to be scorned.  All commons and lands reserved
for  the  poor were given  to  favorites.    Everything
must minister to the power and the purse of the gov-
ernor and his associates, while all opposers were treated
as rebels;    but the unyielding spirit  of the stern old
Puritans  could  not  be  subdued.  Ministers preached
sedition  and  resistance,  and  once,  at  least,  put by
Thanksgiving  day.   Desperate  measures  were pro-
posed and a petition to the king prepared, with which
Increase Mather was already on his way to England
when the rebellion of 1688 broke forever the power
of James, and with him went his rulers in the colonies.
Weymouth was not indifferent to these great move-
ments, and May 20, 1689, a meeting was held in rela-
tion to a new government, at which it  was voted, " in
concurrence with the representatives," "that the gov-
ernor, deputy, and assistants chosen in 1686, with the
deputies then sent by the several towns, should be the
settled  government of the colony."  In other words,
the vote was to restore the old order of things.^
When Sir Edmund Andros made his escape from the
castle, Capt. Samuel White, of Weymouth, received a
Town Eecords.
 - 61 - 
44               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
warrant from Governor Bradstreet and his  council to
pursue and bring him back again, which he did with his
troop of fifty-two men, for which, with other services?
he chiimed seventy pounds, bat was allowed only twen-
ty-two pounds eight pence/
Military Company. —June 24, 1689, the follow-
ing officers  were confirmed  for  the  Weymouth and
Plingham troops:  Capt. Ephraim Hunt, Lieut. Jacob
Nash, Ensign Eichard Phillips.^   Capt. William Tor-
rey had declined the command on account of the infirm-
ities  of age.   This seems to  have been a reorganiza-
tion of the former company raised several years pre-
vious, and which hadbeen in service during the interval.
Canadian Expkditiox.—In the Canadian expedi-
tion of 1690,  Weymouth was represented  by Capt.
Ephraim Hunt and others.   For his services in this
campaign, Capt. Hunt received from the General Court
a grant of the territory now Ashfield.^
'Massachusetts Archives, Vol.  LXX. pp.  225, 226 (State House);
General Couit Records, Vol. VI. p. 372.
« Massachusetts Archives, Vol.  CVII. pp.  44,  149,  150,  172 (State
House).
^ The following  document was found among the papers of  Capt.
Ephraim Hunt: —
" Sam" Bedlam, Yeo. & Ebenezer Hunt, Gent'° both of  Weymouth,
and Richard Faxon, Gent'", of Braintree.
" Whereas the Proprietor of No. 7 in a certain township (usuall}' call"*
Huntstown) granted by the General Court to the officers & Soldiers vnd'
y" comm"'' of Capt. Ephraim Hunt (of Weymouth in y° Canada Expedi-
tion in 1690) is delinquent in paying the lawful dues upon said land, and
whereas the Propriet" at a meeting held in Braintree April 4,  1743, chose
the above named to collect all such dues; therefore said Redlam Hunt &
Faxon by virtue of their authority for £20.5. sell to Micah Huntof Wey-
mouth the above named i of Land No. 7 of the house Lots in the 1"'
Division of sd township.
" Dec. 25, 1744.  Signed in presence of Joseph Melton, William Badlam
acknowledged before Benj' Dyer, J. P., Oct. 80, 1745."
 - 62 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              45
Local Matters. —JSTov.  27,  1693, the  selectmen
were ordered to " prepare and present to the Justices'
Court in  Boston, the laws and orders which concern
the  prudential  affairs  of  the  town"; and March 7,
1697-8,  John Torrey, " to  encourage his trade, shall
have twelve poles of land next his  father's, out of the
town's commons, for a tan-yard, as long as he shall use
it for that purpose." ^
In 1703, the town seems to have come under the dis-
pleasure of the government for dereliction of military
duty, his  Excellency intimating  to  the council, Aug.
19,  that  Col.  Hunt  was in  default  in  the  levy  of
soldiers  ordered  from his  regiment, none  appearing
from Weymouth and Hingham, and Col.  Hobby was
despatched with ten men of the troop of guards, with
orders to make a draft of twenty menout of each of the
said towns.^
Town Bouj^daetes.—From the  earliest times, the
boundaries  between Weymouth and Abington on the
south, and Braintree on the west, seem to have been in
a  very  unsatisfactory  condition.   Committees  were
frequently  appointed  by Weymouth to run the lines
with a committee of Braintree, but in nearly all  cases
the latter town refused to act;  thus the matter remained
unsettled, which was a source of much irritation and
annoyance,  until  Weymouth  appears  to  have  lost
patience, and ordered its  selectmen, June 13, 1712, to
prosecute  the  selectmen of Braintree for refusing to
run the town line as the law provides, voting to stand
by them in the business.   Whether or not the matter
ever came into court is  uncertain, but it  is  quite true
that down to the present time the line has never been
satisfactorily determined.^
•  Town Records.
" Records of the Council, Vol. III. p. 474 (State House)..
^  Town Records.
 - 63 - 
46               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
!N"ew  Prkchstct. —In  1722  an  important  matter
came iTp  which threatened  to  seriously  disturb  the
friendly relations that the two sections of the town held
toward each other.   With the increase of population,
the  settled portions  of the  town gradually extended
until they covered more or less densely its  entire terri-
tory, verging in the north and south towards villages.
The length of the town and its  narrowness contributed
to  form it  into distinct sections, with separate inter-
ests and associations, and this naturally engendered a
feeling of conflict, if not of hostility,  when any ques-
tions came up on which there could be a territorial dif-
ference of opinion.
These opportunities  often occurred, particularly in
school  and  parish  affairs.   The former could more
easily be adjusted, as schools could be supplied at mod-
erate  expense for  all  portions;  but with  regard to
church and parish, the matter was more difficult  to
manage, since the church was already established, with
its meeting-house located in the north part of the town,
and a second church with its  necessary expense would
involve a burden too heavy for the abilities of the town
to sustain.   Yet the distance, some five  or more miles
for a large portion of the inhabitants, and the constantly
occurring  occasions  of disagreement, finally  brought
the matter to  a crisis,  the south portion of the town
coming to  the  determination  to have its  own church
and meeting-house  either by a new precinct or by a
new town.
Accordingly, a petition signed by about forty of the
inhabitants of the south part of the town was presented
to the General Court, setting forth the difficulties  of
their position, and praying to be set  off as a distinct
town or precinct.  The north part being in the majority,
and disliking to be disturbed in its  old-time arrange-
ment, determined to oppose the movement and prevent,
 - 64 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.              47
if  possible, its  consummation.  A town meeting was
called and a committee chosen to oppose the petition to
the General Court.  Attempts were made to accommo-
date the dithculty by a proposed removal of the meet-
ing-house to a more central locality, all of which failed.
Notwithstanding the eiForts of the town, as represented
by its  majority, the  General Court, in the spring of
1723, recognizing the  reasonableness of the  request,
granted it,  and the South Precinct was organized with
a territory covering more than half of the area of the
town.  But this did not heal the breach, as subsequent
events proved, for there were yet continual sources of
trouble and difficulty arising from the parsonage prop-
erty which was in  possession of the North Precinct,
and which its people refused to relinquish.^
Fisheries. —In the early days of the town no insig-
nificant portion of the food supply came from the fish
taken within or near its borders;   and of these, the most
dependence was placed upon the herring, or alewives,
which were in the habit of running into the ponds that
feed Back River, to spawn.  For many years the sup-
ply was doubtless sufficient for all, and there was little
need ofrestriction or care lest that supply should fail.
It was, therefore, unnecessary that the town should con-
cern itself  about the matter.   But as  the  population
increased, and the multiplying of mills upon the stream
threatened to prevent the fish  from ascending to  the
ponds, it  was found necessary  that the town should
take some control of the matter and provide that proper
care should be taken to preserve this important source
of food.^
As early as 1648 mention is  made of the "herringe
broge," giving evidence that this fishery dates back to
'Town Records; General Court Records, Vol. XI. p.  523.
^ Town Records.
/
 - 65 - 
48                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
the first  settlement of the town.  For the reasons pre-
viously given, very little notice is subsequently taken of
the matter for three quarters of a century.  In 1724—5,
at  the town meeting held March 8,  a committee was
chosen "to treat with  the  mill-owners  on the river,
by Bates', to make a convenient passage for fish  into
Whitman's Pond, to  pay not over  £5."  From that
time onward the " alewives business " occupies a large
space upon the town records.   Officers were regularly
chosen to have charge of the fisheries, to preserve the
fish, and also to take and dispose of them in the season,
while the proceeds of the sale were a source of income
that the town valued highly, as will be seen in the sub-
sequent history.   The arranging  and settling of this
business often proved quite perj^lexing and difficult.
New County.—About 1725, the subject of forming
a new county, to be set off from Suffolk, was agitated,
but the  project was steadily opposed by Weymouth,
unless the court house should be located within five
or six miles of the centre of the town, to which the
other towns would not consent.
De. White.—At the March meeting, held on the
14th of that month, 1726-7, the town felt  a necessity
for encouraging the settlement of a physician within its
limits, and for this purpose voted a " grant of five acres
of land to Dr. I^athaniel White while he should remain
in the town and practise medicine."
Town Regulations. —On July 21, 1729, a list  of
the first  jurymen chosen by the town appears upon the
records, and from that day to  the present the matter
has never been allowed to fall  into disuse.
From the first  settlement of the town, for more than
a century, its  expenses were very light, the highways
 - 66 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              49
being provided for by personal labor of all  the male
inhabitants above sixteen years of age, and no regular
appropriation was made for the support of the poor, the
cases being very few, and each as it came up was cared
for as the circumstances of the matter required; hence
are found occasional records like that of Aug. 23, 1733,
whenthe three daughters of Widow Ruth Harvey were
provided for  by the town; the largest tax being that
for the ministry and the schools.   These matters will
be more fully treated in another  department of this
sketch.
The proposition for  a new county still  continued to
be agitated.  Feb. 2, 1729-30, the town went so far  as
to choose an agent to treat with the towns of Scituate,
Hingham, Hull, Braintree, Hanson and Abington, re-
specting the  matter,  and Sept.  1,  1735,  a  vote  was
passed in favor of a new county, to be composed of the
towns in Suffolk Coimty outside of Boston.
Atthe following town meeting, held March 1, 1735-6,
two important measures were passed ;    one allowing
all  freeholders to vote in the affairs  of the town com-
mons, and the other to divide all  the commons among
the   householders  " who  are  freeholders "   in  equal
shares;  and this vote was reaffirmed at a subsequent
meeting held March 29.
March 7,  1736-7, a committee was chosen to unite
with Braintree to  build a cart bridge over the Smelt
Brook at WeymouthLanding, a proceeding so necessary
that it is almost impossible to conceive that an important
thoroughfare like this,  on the main road leading from
Boston to Plymouth, should have been so long per-
mitted to remain without such an improvement.
And again, on the 13th of March following, the town
votes its mind that Boston should be a county by itself,
and a committee was chosen to  petition the General
Court to that effect.
4
 - 67 - 
50                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
PARSOisrAGE  Propeety. —Ever  since  the  division
of the town into two precincts, there had been constant
troiil)lc al)Out the parsonag-e matters before referred to;
the South claiming a share  in  the property, and the
Iforth steadily refusing to allow the claim.   Yet it  was
such a continual source of irritation that on June 23,
1741, the town chose a committee to consider the mat-
ter and to see if some amicable adjustment could not be
made; but the effort failed, and the subject remained to
be the cause ofmuch future trouble.
PiGWACKET IiSrDIA:^ra. —In 1744 a proposition was
made that  the Pigwacket Indians,  then stationed in
Boston, should be placed in Weymouth, but the disposi-
tion of the town was shown' by a unanimous vote, on
July 25, that this should not be done.
Towisr  Commons. —On May 23,  1751,  the  town
made its  first  general  appropriation for the poor by
voting twenty pounds for this purpose.  At the same
meeting it  was also  voted that the  Second Precinct
should have its share of town meetings in proportion to
its tax; also that the town commons should be divided
among the  inhabitants according to the tax of 1750,
each poll to draw one share, and other shares in pro-
portion to the tax; but this vote was changed as all pre-
vious votes of the kind had been, on July 1, so as to
except all  not over  twenty-one years of ag*e,  all  not
born in town and who were not householders and free-
holders, and also all persons renting property.
Throat Distemper.—At this period occurred the
terrible throat distemper that raged so violently in the
town during a whole year, from May, 1751, to May,
1752, that out of an estimated population of about twelve
hundred, one hundred and fifty died, being an eighth of
 - 68 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.              51
the whole number.  This scourge is  unprecedented in
the history ofthe town, and was long remembered with
dread and horror.  Another disaster of a very different
character occurred in the burning of the old church, in
the First Precinct, on the 23d of April, 1751, in which
were stored three barrels of gunpowder.  These two
occurrences were deemed of so much consequence that
the town voted not to send a representative to the Gen-
eral Court that year on that account.'
Fkench and Indian "Wars. —Soon after  this the
peace of the  colonies  was seriously disturbed by the
wars between England and France, which, to a large
degree, were carried  on upon this  continent, and in
which the French made alliance with the savage tribes
of New York, Canada, and the nearer western terri-
tories, who carried on the wars in their usual merciless
and bloodthirsty manner; and although New England,
especially upon the shores  of Massachusetts Bay and
the southern borders, was far removed from the scene
of active strife, yet even the little  town of Weymouth
was not exempt from its  share in  the hardship  and
expense attendant upon their continuance.   The records
are very bare and many of the muster rolls have been
lost,  but enough remain to show something of what
these wars cost the town in blood and treasure for mat-
ters in which it  had no real concern.  In the expedi-
tions of 1755 and 1756  to  Crown Point  and Lake
George, about forty men ofWeymouth belonged in the
regiment of Col. (afterwards Gen.) Benjamin Lincoln,
under the command of Capt. Samuel Thaxter.  Of this
number six never returned to  the  town, but died or
were killed during the year's service.   Among the men
of this company was Lieut. Solomon Lovell, afterwards
general during the Revolutionary struggle.   But these
'  Dr. Cotton Tufts, Town Records.
 - 69 - 
52                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
were not all, for in the many hard campaigns along the
northern frontiers  during these and subsequent years,
until the capture of that last stronghold of the French
on this continent, Louisburg, in 1758, and the victory of
Wolfe on the Plains of Abraham, below Quebec, in the
year following, by which the power of that nation in
this quarter of the world was completely broken, Wey-
mouth sent her sons to assist in the general cause.
The names of such, to a great extent, are wanting,
but in  the  incidental mentions upon public  archives,
and in private family histories,  enough is  gathered to
show that there v/ere many of them, and that they bore
an honorable record.^
'   " See Colonel Lincoln's Eeturn, Oct. 2,  1755, State Archives, Vol.
XCIII.  Capt. Samuel Thaxter's company.
The names of the men [of Weymouth] were: —
Lieut. Wm. Whitmarsh,           Ensign Nath'l Bayley,
John Canterbury,                  Jonathan Darby,
"The following list  made up from the various muster rolls of the
troops engaged in that campaign [Lake George in 1756], and found in the
State Archives, Boston, Vols. XCIII., XCIV., and XCV., is believed to
be very nearly correct: —
Hezekiah White,
Joseph Truefant,
Benjamin Tirrell,
Stephen Saulsbury,
Silas Lovell.
First Lieut., Solomon Lovell.
Sergt. Caleb Eldredge,
Sergt. Jonathan Darby, jun.
Sergt. Thomas Gushing,
Silas Lovell,
Benjamin Tirrell,
Joseph Pratt, 3d,
Noah I'ates,
William Richards,
Joseph Ford,
Lemuel Barbar,
Joseph Blanchard,
Ebeuezer Tirrell,
John Lincoln,
James Nash,
William Rice,
Humphrey Burrell,
Isaac Pool,
Corp. John Canterbury, jun.
Corp. Benjamin Nash,
Corp. James Hunt,
Stephen Canterbury,
Joseph Trufant,
William Holbrook, jun.
Benjamin Richards,
Samuel Orcutt,
David Orcutt,
Stephen Saulsbury,
William Salisbury,
Thomas Colson, jun.
Nehemiah Joy,
John Randall Vining,
Isaac Joy,
William Bates,
Nathaniel Blanchard.
 - 70 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              53
Feench N^eutrals. —In 1755, after the ca])ture of
Acadia (Nova Scotia) by the English, large numbers
of the  unfortunate  inhabitants,  who were, with  the
greatest  inhumanity  forced to  abandon their  former
pleasant homes, and seek shelter wherever they might,
were brought to Boston, and as no provision had been
made for their support, they were parcelled out among
the several towns that were thus compelled to provide
for  them.   Weymouth received  its   share,  but how
many there remains no record to show, excepting such
as is found in the votes ofthe town in special cases and
uponthe treasurer's books, like the following: " March 8,
1756.  Dr. Nathaniel White was paid eight shillings
per week for a year for keeping the French Neuters."
This by vote of the  town, and upon the  treasurer's
account there is  an item of six  pounds paid to James
Humphrey, Feb. 28, 1761, for subsisting the " French
Neuters." ^
De. Tufts.—Again, March 10,  1760, Dr. Cotton
Tufts, who had recently settled in  the north part of
the town as a physician, and who afterwards, for more
than half a century was one of its  most valuable and
prominent citizens,  was chosen agent to  confer with
other towns about a new county.
" (The last named and Benjamin ISTash should, perhaps, be credited to
Braintree).  Of these, six died during the campaign: Thomas Gushing,
John Canterbury, James Hunt, William Holbrook, Benjamin Richards,
John Eandall Vining.  The term of service was from February to No-
vember, about nine months." —Weymouth Historical Society, Publication
No. 1, pp. 31, 32.
[Besides these, manywent into the various ISTorthern campaigns during
that war, but the records are so deficient  or wholly wanting, that it  has
been impossible to the present time to ascertain how many or who they
were, but probably many more than are named in  the above lists. —
G. JV.]
Town Eecords.
 - 71 - 
54                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Highways. —About the same time, also, the town
was found to have outgrown the primitive method of
working the  highways, and something different  and
more effective was needed.  'New regulations were con-
sequently adopted, whereby each poll was to be taxed
two shillings and one penny (one day's work), other
taxes in same proportion.   Those having teams, horse
or ox, were rated at certain prices, and the whole mat-
ter was reduced to a kind of system, rude to be sure,
but a vast improvement upon the ancient plan.   This
arrangement  was continued, with  comparatively few
changes, for several generations.^
South Precestct. —During these  years the  South
Precinct seems to have been steadily gaining upon the
North in  population  and influence,  and had become
strong enough to  command a vote,  March 24, 1761,
defining the word " ministry " in the  parsonage deed
to include  hoth ministers, and that each should draw
of the income from that source in proportion to the tax
paid by his parish.^
' Town Records.               Town Records.
 - 72 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              55
CHAPTER III.
Bevolutionary War—Arbitrary Measures of the Crown —Agents chosen
to meet in Boston—Commitees of Correspondence —Nomore Tea—
Energetic Action —Eecordof Votes on l  he Resolutions of Congress—
Refusal to pay Taxes to the Royal Treasurer —Town Committee of
Correspondence —Minute-Men —Preparations  for  War—Raising
Troops—Declaration of  Independence —Bounties —State Conven-
tion —State Constitution —Procuring Menand Provisions —Soldiers
to Hull.
REVOLUTroNART Wae.'—Soon after this  time the
political affairs of the colonies began to assume an im-
portance  that  they  had never before  reached.   The
arbitrary measures of the English government, continu-
ally growing more and more harsh and oppressive, had
roused the people  to a pitch  that boded no friendly
issue.   Measure after measure was adopted bythe min-
istry, each more urgent and onerous than the former,
and forced upon the people until they were compelled
to resort to extreme measures in  self-defence.   During
the whole history of the colonies  all  important busi-
ness  was  transacted  in  open town  meeting.   Was
any measure suggested for the  benefit  of the  town,
here it  was thoroughly discussed, and adopted or re-
jected.   Was any grievance complained of, here it  was
also considered and remedies proposed.  Here all voters
stood upon a perfect equality, where each could and did
speak his mind freely and fully, and every vote counted
one.
'Most of the facts contained in this chapter are taken from the town
records, and may be found under tlae  dates to which they are assigned;
consequently, special notes will not be needed to verify them.
 - 73 - 
56                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
In these town meetings, therefore, the measures of
government came up for consideration, and such means
were adopted as seemed best suited to counteract their
evil  effects.
Here were chosen the representatives to the General
Court, to whom were given instructions filled with im-
portant and minute detail, and these officei-s were held
to a strict accountability.   To their  constituents they
must answer, andthat directly; there could be no evad-
ing or shirking, consequently the public business was
transacted under a feeling ofheavy responsibility, which
resulted in carrying out the will of the people as far as
the power of the deputies extended.  The law-makers
in General Court assembled were the same class of men
who spoke so boldly in  town meeting,  and the same
spirit animated their actions in the higher position.
Weymouth took an active and prominent part in the
primary action that immediately preceded the war of the
Revolution, and under the leadership of such men as
Major James Humphrey, Dr. Cotton Tufts, and Gen.
Solomon Lovell, of the  ISTorth  Parish,  and  Deacon
i^athaniel Bayley, of the South,^ the town took a posi-
tion that  it  had never before nor has since attained.
Oct. 1(3,  1765, Major Humphrey, then representative to
the General Court, received full  and decided instruc-
tions from the town as to the position he was to take in
the present position of affairs.'^
Sept. 1,  1766, the  town refused to consent to the
proposition " that the sufferers by the disturbances of
last year in Boston should be paid from the public treas-
ury,  as  recommended by his Majesty, and instructed
their representative of this action."
Agents chosen to meet in Boston. —Sept.  21,
1768, James Humphrey and Cotton Tufts  were ap-
'   See Appendix D.            ^ Qqq Appendix E.
 - 74 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              57
pointed agents to meet in Faneiiil Hall, Boston, on the
following day, to consult with the agents of other towns
on the present state of affairs.
Committees of Cohrespondence. —In the mean
time the political matters of the State had reached such
a point that committees of correspondence had been
formed in all of the principal towns, and frequent con-
sultations were held upon the important matters then
agitating the country.  At a  special  meeting held  in
Weymouth, Jan. 3, 1774, of which JamesHumphreywas
moderator, a letter was read from the Boston committee,
with copies of the votes and proceedings of that town at
meetings held on the  5th  and 18th  of the  previous
I»rovember, with regard to  the cargoes  of teas  daily
expected from the  East India Company's warehouses
in London, suggesting the co-operation of the several
towns in  resisting the introduction of this  obnoxious
article, —obnoxious only because it had been the inno-
cent occasion of an unjust tax.   The matter was fully
considered  and a resolution passed " by a very great
majority  .       .      .       not to purchase nor use any of the
East India Company's teas of any kind (excepting such
as they might now have on hand) until the act of Par-
liament, laying a duty thereon, be repealed."
IsTo moee Tea. —Also, that the minds of the people
might be more fully determined, and there be no mistake
in the business, and to show that they were as ready to
act as to resolve, a committee was chosen, consisting of
Cotton Tufts,  Esq.,  Major Lovell,  Deacon ISTathaniel
Bayley, Jacob Goold and Ebenezer Colson, to prepare
the resolutions in  proper form and to  present  them
at the March meeting " to be signed, that the minds of
the inhabitants may be generally known."
On the 18th of July, of the same year, a form of cov-
 - 75 - 
58                 SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
enant was received from the committee of correspond-
ence of Boston, and recommended for signatm^es.   This
was placed in the hands of a committee, who were to
give it full consideration, obtain as many names to it as
possible, and then to deposit it with the town clerk.
Energetic Action. —Ata meeting held on the 28th
of September following, the instructions of the deputies
from Boston to  the General Court were read, and the
same were made the instructions of the town to its dep-
uty, I^athaniel Bayley.  At the same meeting. Deacon
Bayley was also chosen to attend the  meeting of the
Provincial Convention to assemble at Concord, on the
second  Tuesday  of  October  next.   The  town also
accepted the nineteen resolves drawn up by the county
committee, agreeing to stand by them, and to hold the
constables harmless in refusing to pay over the State
taxes to the treasurer appointed by the crown.
Record op Yotes on the Resolutions of Con-
gress. —The resolutions  prepared by the committee
had been presented to the  inhabitants for  signature,
according to the action of the town, and were reported
as follows.   In the South Precinct this  preamble was
adopted, date Dec. 12, 1774: —
" We, the inhabitants of the Second Precinct in the
said Town, under the sacred ties of Virtue, Honor, and
love of our Country, do now covenant and agree with
each other, that we will conform and strictly  adhere to
the  agreement and association  which the  American
Continental Congress has recommended unto us, and
which has now been read."
This  was signed  with the  following  result:  One
hundred and two in favor, none against, and twenty-one
not voting; making a total of one hundred and twenty-
three voters.
 - 76 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              59
In the North Precinct the agreement varied a little in
its wording, and read as follows :  —
" We, the inhabitants of the first  precinct of Wey-
mouth, whose names are here underwritten, do signify
our approbation to the Continental Association which is
recommended by the  General  Continental  Congress
held in Philadelphia, in the year 1774, those of us that
approve of the same to  answer to our names by the
word ^yea,'  and those who disapprove  of the  same
by the word ^  no.'
"
The questions were put at the close of the lecture,
Dec. 25, 1774, with this result:  One hundred and four
answered " yea,'' four answered " no," and fourteen did
not answer, one hundred and twenty-two voters being
at the meeting.
Refuse to pat Taxes to the Potal Treasurer.
—Jan. 30, 1775, Deacon IN^athaniel Bayley was elected
by the town as its  delegate to the proposed Congress
to meet at Cambridge, 1st of February next, the town
to provide for him.   The town also chose a committee
to  see  that  the  inhabitants  adhere  strictly  to  their
pledge;   and at the same meeting, renewed the vote to
hold  the  constables  harmless  for  not carrying  their
money for the year  1772 to  " Harryson Gray," and
ordered the  money to be paid to the town treasurer.
On the 13th of March, however, the latter vote was so
far reconsidered as to direct the constables to pay the
money to Henry Gardner of Stow.
Town Committee oe Correspondence.—Acom-
mittee of correspondence for  Weymouth, to act with
those of the neighboring towns, had been chosen on
the  9th  of  March, consisting  of Dr.  Tufts,  Major
Lovell, Major Yining, Capt. Asa White and Mr. Josiah
Colson.  This  committee met in Arnold's  Tavern,  at
 - 77 - 
00                 SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Weymouth Landing  (the  buikhng is  yet standing),
together with those with whom they were to associate,
organized  by choice of  Dr.  Tufts  as  chairman, and
Capt. White as  secretary, and afterwards did efficient
service during the war.^
Miwte-Men. —On the 13th  of March it  having
been deemed necessary, in view of tlie  exigency of the
times and the wish to be prepared for any emergency,
to enKst a company of minute-men, it was voted to pay
them one shilHng per week for four weeks; and on May
2d of the same year, it was voted to pay " a pistareen a
day for a week to a company of fifteen men for a mih-
tary guard in the present troublesome times."  Desert-
ers were to lose their wages.
PREPARATioisrs FOR Wae. —At a town meeting held
on the  24:th  of May, Deacon Nathaniel Bayley was
chosen to represent the town in the Provincial Congress
to meet at Watertown, May 31;   the committee of cor-
respondence was also directed to  ascertain who were
in need of arms, and report to the commanding officer.
Enrolled soldiers from sixteen to sixty years of age were
required to meet and organize, those of each parish at
their  own meeting-house, on the 25th of May.  The
town also  accepted  the  offer of Mr. Policy for  the
use of two swivel guns then at Salem, and voted their
thanks  to  Dr. Tufts for  his  offer  to  transport them
to Weymouth.
On the 29th of May, the committee was authorized to
procure arms at the town's expense for those not able to
purchase or hire them, and the committee of correspond-
ence was directed to put in order the two swivel guns
'  See record of Col. Asa White in files of the Weymouth Historical
Society.
 - 78 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              61
and to procure ammunition at  the town's charge, in
case the province should not assume it.    The bells were
also to be rung to notify an alarm.   The thanks of the
town were also voted to Hon. Kichard Darbyfor the use
of two small carriage guns, which were delivered to
Thomas Jenks, to be returned when done, with thanks,
and all damage made good.
June 1, 1775, the town instructed the committee to
hire guns at one dollar each, for six months; and such
was the urgency of the times that the enrolled militia
were ordered to appear under arms on the Lord's day,
under penalty of one dollar for each day; and those who
remained at home, without reasonable excuse, were to
forfeit two dollars each.   The number of those report-
ing without arms was twelve in  the North Precinct,
and twenty-two in the South.
March 11, 1776, a new committee of correspondence
was chosen,  consisting of Cotton Tufts,  Esq.,  Capt.
James White, Col. Solomon Lovell, Nathaniel Bayley,
Esq., and Richard Blanchard; and on the 20th of May,
two representatives were chosen, Nathaniel Bayley and
Col. Solomon Lovell.  All persons drawing ammunition
from the town were to return the same in amount, or
pay at the rate of four shillings per pound for powder,
eight pence for bullets, and six pence for flints.
Raising- Troops. —At a town meeting held on the
15th ofJuly, the town voted to raise one hundred and
thirty pounds by tax, to be added to the bounty offered
by the province for the enlistment of ten men, the quota
called for from Weymouth, to be raised in  ten days.
Deacon Nathaniel Bayley and Capt. Samuel Wardwere
authorized to  hire men from out of town in case they
should not be raised in town, and to  pay them the
same bounty as was paid to townsmen, that is, twenty
pounds, thirteen from the  town and seven from the
 - 79 - 
62                SKETCH OP WEYMOUTH.
province, and the treasurer was to borrow the money
for the purpose.
On the 22d of July eight more men were called for
from the town, and it was voted to  raise  one hundred
and four pounds additional.   These men were enlisted
for the N^orthern or Canada expedition, and fully earned
their wages.  It was also voted at a meeting held 'Nov.
18, 1776, to raise ninety-two pounds for the men raised
on the previous September.  This was to be raised by
tax on polls and estates, and all who had been in the
continental  service  for  a year were exempt from it.
And on  the  2!5d  of  December following  the  town
raised  one hundred and ninety-eight  pounds to pay
twenty-two men who had gone into the continental
service with Lieut. Samuel Kingman, or three pounds
additional to each man.
Upon the actual commencement of hostilities, as will
be seen, the town took prompt and decided measures to
perform its whole duty in carrying into effect its  reso-
lutions of the previous years, and to obtain the inde-
pendence of the country.  Men and money were freely
raised and sent forward at the call of the continental
and provincial authorities.
Declaeationop Indbpendexce.—TheDeclaration
of Independence was entered in full  upon the  town
records, and read fromboth pulpits upon the next Lord's
day after its  reception.   Measures were also taken to
prevent a monopolyin articles of necessity, andto guard
against extortion, and the prices at which these articles
were to be sold were fixed by the town.
Bounties.—At a meeting held Feb.  21,  1777, to
encourage enlistments for a longer term than those of
previous yeai-s, it was voted to pay each soldier enlist-
ing in the continental service for three years, or during
 - 80 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.              63
the war, seventy-four pounds additional.   On the 17th
of March it  was voted to pay each soldier who was in
the JS'orthern army six pounds for a year.   The com-
mittee  was instructed  to  inquire " why some of our
soldiers came from York before  their  time  was up,"
and these were not to draw their pay until the com-
mittee had made its report.
On the l4th of May it was voted to pay " six pounds
per month, for eight months, for men who enlist in the
provincial or continental service, and deserters were to
forfeit all right to their wages."   On the 21st of the
same month, a thousand pounds was voted to raise men
for  the  continental  army, and a  committee of three
chosen to hire men from out of town.  'No one member
was to pay more than thirty pounds per man without
the consent of another.^   On the 18th of August the
1  On the 22d of May, 1777, the town voted 'the following instructions
to Col. Solomon Lovell, its representative in the General Court, from the
pen, probably, of Dr. Cotton Tufts.  It is, as will  be seen, "a remark-
ably able and well-written document, and will compare favorably with
the best public papers of that day."
"INSTRUCTIONS TO THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE TOWN OF WEYMOUTH.
" To CoL°. Solomon Lovell.
" Sir.  Thestruggle in whichweare engaged is great and important, it
calls for the Exertion of all the Powers and Faculties of every Individual
in order to secure the invaluable Blessing of Liberty in its  full Extent,
which we profess to be the grand object of our pursuit.   Could these be
united and center in  the main Point, we might, under Providence, be
assured of  success; to  effect this,  as Men have diiferent Powers and
Capacities adapted to different purposes, it is necessary that Men be em-
ployed in those different Matters for which they are best calculated, and
without attending to this, the Publick cannot be well served nor its  good
Advanced.  You are therefore Instructed to use your Influence, that the
various offices  of Government be filled  up by Persons of Integrity and
known qualifications for their Particular offices, and that a Multiplicity of
offices be devolved upon no one. Especially where they cannot be dis-
charged with Fidelity, and the good of the  People, however otherwise
qualified or distinguished the Person maybe.   Agreeable hereunto you
are Instructed not to give your Vote for any Person to sit in Council who
holds any office or offices incompatable with the faithful Discharge of the
 - 81 - 
64                 SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
town voted to add four pounds ten shillings per month
to the pay of each soldier from the time of marching to
his  return,  allowing twenty miles for a day's march.
Three hundred pounds more was also raised for men for
the continental service; and on the 25th of August the
wages of soldiers  were raised to  twelve pounds per
month until the 1st of JS^ovember.
On the 22d of September, by vote of the town, men
were not to  be drafted for the army, and those who
Duties of a Councillor, nor for any Member of the Continental Congress,
nor for any holding Commissions under it, and that the Affairs of Govern-
ment may be conducted, as much as may be, with Dispatch and without
interruption.  You are instructed to use your Endeavors that Members of
the Gen' Court be not unnecessarily charged with the Transaction of Busi-
ness that can be as well or better done by suitable persons not belonging to
the same, and who may be appointed for such purpose, and that all  per-
sons entrusted by the General Court, with Business of any kind, do from
Time to Time render an Account of their conduct, where any are unfaith-
ful that they may be displaced without favor or affection, see that the un-
faithful be punished, and the upright servants of Governmentbe rewarded,
for where faithful servants of Government are not rewarded, no man of
Integrity will ever chuse to accept a Trust, and the State must be gov-
erned by weak and wicked Men.  You are on the one Hand to avoid such
parsimony as to discourage worthy men from engaging in the Publick
Service, and on the other Hand such a profusion as to encourage Men to
fleece the Public, and to  wiggle themselves into places of Profit and
Honor.  You are particularly instructed to use your utmost endeavors
that every measure be pursued for the suppression of vice and immor-
ality, and as no People can long enjoy Liberty or Civil Happiness, with-
out a fixed Government, whose Laws are founded in Justice and admin-
istered with impartiality, we do agreeably to a recommendation of the
late General Assembly instruct you to join with the House of Represent-
atives in one Body with the Council to form a Constitution of govern-
ment, and when compleated to lay the same before us for our approbation
or disapprobation.
" That you Sir, with the Members of the general Assembly, may be
directed by the Supreme Governor of the world in the formation of a
Constitution satisfactory to the inhabitants of this State and pi'oductive
of the greatest Virtue and Happiness not only to  the present, but to
succeeding Generations, that the Children yet unborn may rise up and
call you blessed, is the ardent wish of your constituents
" Cotton Tufts James Humphrey Asa White Eliphaz WESTOosr
Nathaniel Bailey."
 - 82 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              65
entered the service in the previous  September were to
be allowed forty shillings per month to make their pay
equal to that of the men hired by the town.  Men were
becoming scarce,  and more  difficulty  was found in
obtaining them, consequently greater inducements must
be offered.   On the 6th of ifovember, Capts. Samuel
Ward and Thomas Nash were instructed to raise men
at the best rate they could to guard prisoners, to serve
until the 1st of April next, and another levy of eighty
pounds was made.
On the 10th of !N^ovember, under a further call  for
soldiers, it was voted to " pay them four pounds in case
they can't be had for less, and forty shillings for rations,
to find themselves in case the State does not find them,"
and for this purpose seventy-five pounds was voted.
At the meeting held on the 2d of March, 1778, it was
found so difficult to raise the necessary number of men
demanded of the town that a committee was constituted
to  devise an easier  method of doing it;  but notwith-
standing their utmost exertions, the trouble met them
face to face.   Men must be had, and no men were to be
found.  Committees were appointed to assist the officers
in procuring enlistments, but the men came slowly and
only upon the offer of superior inducements.  The war
was lingering on much longer than any had at first
supposed, and with no immediate prospect of an end.
The buoyancy of spirit  and the  hope that  animated
the people at  the beginning had died out,  and there
remained but the stern reality  of severe service, small
pay,  and  an  abundance  of  hardship.   Enthusiasm
could accomplish nothing, for there was none; conse-
quently, money must be given in its  stead.
On the 16th of March, 1778, it was voted to raise six
hundred and twelve pounds to pay the men under Capt.
Ward, at the rate ofnine pounds per month, who were
guarding the stores near Boston.  On the 25th of May
5
 - 83 - 
66                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
following, fifteen hundred pounds was voted " to raise
men to be sent to Gen. Washington, and other places,
and the committee was authorized to go out of town to
hire them, and to pay each man one hundred pounds, or
forty shillings per month, to serve, to be paid in articles
at the prices when the Vv^ar began."
July 8, 1779, the committee was instructed to hire
soldiers for the continental army for nine months, three
years, or the war, to pay them foi'ty shillings per month
in produce at the prices of 1775, or in cash upon the
best terms they can make, the treasurer to borrow forty-
five hundred pounds for the purpose.
State  Convention.—On the 22d of July,  1779,
Hon. James Humphrey was chosen representative  to
the State Convention, to meet at Cambridge on the 1st
of the following September, for  the purpose of form-
ing a constitution ;    and on the 2d of August the town
accepted, by a large majority, the action of the conven-
tion at Concord regulating prices, and a committee was
chosen to carry the matter into effect, also to see that
the regulations were observed.  On the 16th of August
the treasurer was authorized to borrow nine thousand
pounds for  the purpose  of procuring  soldiers.   This
rapid and large increase of appropri;itions is  simply the
measure of the depreciation in the value of the currency
ofthe country at that time, and by no means an indica-
tion of such an increase in the actual expense.  As an
illustration of this  advance, or rather  depreciation, in
1780, March 13, at  the  annual  meeting,  six  pounds
was fixed as the value of a day's work upon the high-
ways, against two shillings eight pence two years pre-
vious.  At this meeting thje  assessors were instructed
" to report a list of all  persons taxed for  estates to be
amended by the town, and all upon the list were to be
required  to  give  in  under oath  a true list  of their
 - 84 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              67
property, and any who do not shall pay double their
assessment, and to double on each assessment until they
comply with the requirement."
State Constitution". —On the 24th of April, 1780,
a committee was appointed to consider the new Con-
stitution and report, which was done on the 22d ofMay,
and this  Constitution was accepted with a proposition
of certain amendments, such as " where personal estate
is  required, it  shall  be  expressly mentioned ^ratable
estate'; and that at least as much property shall be re-
quired for qualification of members of Congress as for
senators,  and that no  member of the  board of war
shall be a member of the Senate or House of Represent-
atives;  that express  provision be made for  calling  a
Congress in 1795."  Hon. James Humphrey, the del-
egate,  was instructed to advocate these amendments,
and also to vote for the adoption of the Constitution,
even although they should not be made.
On the 19th of June the townwas dividedinto twenty
districts " as the tax-lists  stand,  each district to send
one man into the service, and if any one refuse to go or
to  pay his proportion, the captain of the company is
directed to draft him.  Any widow or female refusing
to pay, it shall be addedto the next tax, and any district
that neglects to furnish its man, the captain of its  com-
pany shall proceed to draft, the tax-list to be put into
the hands of the three highest on the list for the purpose
of calling a meeting to carry this vote into effect."
Procuring Men and Provisions.—On the 18th
of September the town voted fifteen  thousand pounds
for  three-months'  men, and on Oct. 9,  twenty thou-
sand  pounds  more to  purchase  beef,  according  to
the requirement of the General Court.  On Dec. 20,
the militia officers were appointed a committee to see
 - 85 - 
68                 SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
if  they can hire nineteen men, the town's  quota for
the continental army u])on the last call  of the General
Court, and one hundred and thirty  thousand pounds
was voted  to procure  beef on the call  of the same.
Non-residents  were to  be  taxed  for  their  share  of
expense in  hiring the six-months' men, and fifty  hard
dollars a year for three years was to be the pay of men
for the continental service.
At the annual meeting, March 12, 1781, it was voted
that " any person refusing to pay his  proportion of the
expense of procuring men for three-years' service  shall
be ta^ed for  the  same and the  tax collected by the
officer."   On the 2(jth of March it was voted to change
the manner of raising men;   voted to raise nineteen hun-
dred hard dollars, or currency, seventy-five for one, for
the purpose; ninety pounds in  specie  to be paid for
three-years' men: one third when mustered in, and one
third at the beginning of each year for two years suc-
ceeding.
The first meeting recorded for the  election of State
officers  was held April 2, 1781.   On the 9th it  was
ordered that the money raised to pay soldiers should be
kept by itself;  and that a petition be presented to the
General Court for the privilege of enlisting the men at
the  castle for the three-years'  service.   On June 18,
" three  hundred dollars,  hard money, was voted for
three-years'  men:  one third  at  the beginning of each
year, or fifty dollars bounty, and ten dollars per month."
On the 25th ofJune, men were to be "hired on the best
terms that could be made for six months, and if delayed
longer than that, to have double wages for the  over-
time," and for this the town would give security, —a
proceeding reflecting somewhat upon its credit.
On the 9th of July it was voted to raise five-months'
and three-months' men for the continental service.   On
July 16 a better prospect opened, when it  was under-
 - 86 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              69
stood that " men could be had for fifty hard dollars, and
they to relinquish the continental pay,"  It was accord-
ingly voted to hire them.  Onthe 8th of October it was
voted to raise twenty-five hundred hard dollars to hire
menfor three years, the committee to have discretionary
powers  in  the matter;  also  voted that the  monthly
requisition  for  beef  be  complied  with.   'Nov.  19,
it  was voted to  assess  immediately the  State tax to
make up the deficiency in continental soldiers; and on
Dec.  10 it  was voted  that  the  tax,  fourteen  hun-
dred and thirteen pounds four shillings and sixpence,
be paid  by Jan.  1,  following, or the  men procured,
each of whom was to be rated one hundred and twenty-
eight  pounds nine  shillings and sixpence, and every
exertion was to be used to procure money and men.
Soldiers to Hull. —It appears that the men were
raised  with  much trouble,  but  not  until  after  the
time set,  Dec. 20, and the  superintendent refused to
receive them.  A petition  was therefore made to the
governor and council to be relieved from the difiiculty
by a  grant  of more time.   On Sept. 30, 1782, ten
soldiers  were sent to  Hull  to  assist the  Fi'ench  in
throwing up fortifications for the defence of the harbor,
and these were to be paid  "seven dollars per month,
if  not  allowed  that  by the  State " ;    and on Dec.  2
the town remitted  the taxes of " Gideon Colson and
Thomas Tirrell, they being in the enemies' hands when
the taxes were made."
This concludes a brief sketch of the history of Wey-
mouth during the Kevolution, as foundupon its records.
Very much of its service  in men and money must be
sought in  other directions, and at the  best the  story
must beimperfectly told.   Ofthe oflacial rolls, many are
incomplete or wholly missing, but  enough remain to
show that of a population of about fourteen hundred
 - 87 - 
70               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
people, according to the estimate of Dr. Cotton Tufts,
made within two years after the close of the war, the
town sent  into  the  various departments  of military
service, upon the calls  of the  State  and continental
authority, at least two hundred men, one in seven of its
total inhabitants; and these must have embraced very
nearly all of the able-bodied men.*  It is  true that the
terms of service were very short in many instances, but
however short, the burden of such a large number must
have been enormous.
The number who perished upon the field of battle or
died in the service cannot be ascertained, but probably
not less than thirty or forty, since a list  remains of fif-
teen fromthe soldiers ofthe South Precinct alone.  The
amount of expense attending the payment of the men
for wages, bounties and support, also for armysupplies,
it is almost impossible to estimate, owing to the fluctuat-
ing value of the currency, but the various votes already
quoted give some idea ofits sum.
Ofthe ofiicers sent into the service from this town,
honorable mention is  made of Gen. Solomon Lovell,
who was in commandof the Eastern Military District, of
which Boston was the headquarters.  He was also in
active service in the Rhode Island campaign in 1778,
and his brigade did efiicient  work in the battle  before
Newport, in which the general was noted for his cool-
ness and bravery.  He was also the military commander
of the unfortunate Penobscotexpedition of the following
year, which was unsuccessful, not from any fault  of
his, but from the want of co-operation on the part of
the fleet under command of Com. Saltonstal, who was
afterwards  cashiered  for  cowardice  and  inefiiciency.
Among the other officers may be named Capt. Thomas
Nash, who served under "Washington during the siege
'  See Appendix F.
 - 88 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              71
of Boston, and was officer of the day on the night when
Dorchester Heights were taken  possession  of,  Capt.
Joseph Trufaut, Capt. Samuel Ward, Capt. Asa White,
Lieut. Er Cusliing, who was with Arnold in the Canada
expedition,  Lieut.  Samuel Kingman, Lieut.  Thomas
Vinson, Lieut. David Joy, Lieut. Asa Dyer and others.
The record is one of which Weymouth has no reason
to be ashamed, although, at times, the work languished
and the men refused to go.  Money came slowly or not
at all, yet the times were such and the demands so many
and great that its  ability was  not sufficient  to  meet
them.  It must also be borne in mind that this town
was not alone in these deficiencies, but was even more
prompt than many, and probably equal to the foremost.
The fact stated, that the town sent into the field fully
two hundred men, of whom probably nearly a quarter
perished, tells a story that it  will be difficult to over-
come.  Hardly a family, or very few, if any, but had one
or more representatives in the field during some part of
the  great struggle,  and some throughout its   whole
duration.   The town was also peculiarly fortunate in
having for its leaders men of such ability and judgment
as those whose names have been mentioned. Dr. Cotton
Tufts, Gen. Solomon Lovell, Major James Humphrey
and Deacon J^Tathaniel Bayley, men who were wise in
council,  skilful and brave in the field, and untiring in
their efforts to promote the interests of their country in
the momentous struggle in which it was then engaged.
Some of the public papers prepared by these  men in
their official service are models of political documents,
and will compare favorably with the best of that day.
 - 89 - 
72                SKETCH OP WEYMOUTH.
CHAPTER IV.1
Eecovering from the Effects of the War—AVork-House—Local Matters
—Small-Pox—Norfolk County—Attempt to  divide the Town—
Business Enterprises —Post-Offlce—War with England —Alarm at
Cohasset —Town Lines —Manufacturing Companies discouraged
—Surplus Revenue—Anti-Slavery Resolutions—Town Records —
Town Hall —War of  the  Rebellion —Opening Scenes—Twelfth
Regiment—Raising Troops —Military Records —Bounties —Thir-
ty-fifth Regiment —Town Bonds and Seal —Forty-second Regiment
—Contributions —Dithculties —Fourth  Heavy  Artillery —Final
Attempt to divide the Town —Soldiers' Monument—Two Hundred
and Fiftieth Anniversary —Water Question —Fire  Department —
Growth of the Town.
Recovering from the Effects of the War.—
Theprocess ofrecovery from the desolations occasioned
by the war was slow.   The losses had been too great,
the wounds too deep, and the exhaustion too complete
to  be made good at  once;  hence,  there  was great
depression in trade, for there was no money upon which
to  transact business.   The drain of men had been so
severe that it was many years before the gap thus occa-
sioned was so far filled  that the ordinary duties could
be done with  comparative ease.   The evils resulting
from a currency depreciated until its value became but
nominal, continued the burdens of taxation far beyond
their natural limits, and thus there was stagnation and
depression.   'Nor were these  physical  evils the only
sources of difficulty ;   those of a moral nature, resulting
directly from habits contracted in  the  army, were a
calamity of far more terrible character; and not one was
' The material for this chapter is gathered maiuly from the townrecords,
and may be found under the appropriate dates.
 - 90 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              73
so fearful and far-reaching in its  effects  as that of the
excessive use ofintoxicating liquors, which had become
well-nigh universal;   and in consequence, large numbers
of well-to-do families, who, before the  war,  were in
comparative wealth and ease, became reduced, and were
obliged to sell the estates that the war had left to them,
to  supply  the  demands of an exhaustless  appetite.
Hence, in the course of the following generation, a vast
number of the  estates  in  town changed hands.  Nor
has the effect of this wholly ceased even at the end of a
full century from the close of the war, but is still felt in
its hereditary power, by multitudes of the present gen-
eration, who have inherited this unnatural appetite from
their ancestors.
WoKK-HousE.—For years, therefore, the inhabitants
were obliged to struggle for a bare maintenance, and
were in no condition to prosecute business enterprises
or carry on the pursuits of learning; and it was a score
of years before the natural resources of the town began
to be developed by the enterprises of the citizens.   Dur-
ing the later years of the war the town, after various
attempts, succeeded in building, in 1779, a work-house
near the centre of its  territory,  not far from Tirrell's
mill, for the accommodation of the poor, who had in-
creased to such a degree as to require special attention;
and this  house was used for  that purpose  until  the
erection of another building for the same purpose, at
Weymouth Landing, in 1809.
Local Matters. —A few items  of interest occur
upon the records from time to time before the close of
the century, among which are the following: March 12,
1787, the town officers took the oath of allegiance agree-
able to a resolve of the General Court; May 7, 1787,
Dr. Cotton Tufts was chosen a delegate to the Conven-
 - 91 - 
74               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
tion in Boston, second Wednesday in January, to con-
sider the  constitution  or form of government of the
United States  of America;  April 5,  1790, the town
voted to  allow their representatives five  shillings  per
day agreeable to the practice of other towns;  and March
14, 1791, the town clerk was directed to read the laws
of the Commonwealth at  the next meeting after  he
receives them.
Small-Pox. —At a meeting held Sept. 11, 1792, the
town refused to permit inoculation for the small-pox,
and March 11, following, permission was granted for
the erection of a hospital for that purpose agreeable to
law, under direction of the selectmen.
i^'oRPOLK CouisrTT. —After the war, the question of
a new county was frequently raised and various action
taken, sometimes favorable and sometimes opposed, but
the  matter  was finally  determined by  the  General
Court, and the towns of Suffolk County southerly from
Boston were set off and formed into i^orfolk County
in 1763.   This, however, does not seem to have suited
the good people of Weymouth, for, Aug. 26, of that
year, a committee was appointed to  draw up a peti-
tion to the General Court, praying to be set off from
Norfolk County and to  be reannexed to  Suffolk, but
the  movement was unsuccessful, and Weymouth has
remained to the present time a part of Norfolk County,
although  the  attempt was  afterwards  renewed, the
reason alleged being that the shire town was too far
away.
Attempt to  divide  the  Town. —In 1796 the
division of the town was again proposed, this time by
the North Precinct, and a petition presented to  the
General Court for that purpose.  The feeling ran very
 - 92 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              75
high, the ISTorth Precinct being almost nnanimonsly in
favor, and the South as  decidedly opposed.  For the
next half a dozen years the matter was in constant agi-
tation in public and in private, in parish meeting and
in town meeting, and the town was so nearly divided
upon the  subject  that  the  votes  were sometimes in
favor and sometimes against.   At that time, about the
year 1802, according to  a canvass made for the pur-
pose,  the population was found to have increased to
1803, 965 of whom lived in the North Parish and 838
in the South; the ratable polls in the Northwere 211, and
in the South 201;  two fifths of the land was in the North,
and three fifths in the South;   of the money at interest,
the South had |22,950, and the North had |20,i;53.'
The Senate voted in favor of a division, but the House
refused,  and the  matter  was  referred  to  the  next
session,  March 3,  1803, which was equivalent to  an
indefinite jDosti^onement of the  whole subject.   Thus
the  question has remained to  the present, with spas-
modic  attempts from time to  time to  revive  it,   but
never with much prospect of success.
' Private papers of Dr. James Lovell, who was an active participant in
the movement.  The petition and remonstrance are preserved among his
papers, also an act of incorporation for the new town as proposed.  The
following statistics were also prepared to accompany these: —
29 March, 1802.
Inhabitants of the Town of Weymouth                     1,803
Eatable Polls                                                   412
Length of the Town 9 to 10 Miles, breadth 2| Miles.
Inhabitants of the North Parish                                    965
Eatable Polls                                                  211
Money at Interest by last Yaluation                            $20,133
Including | of the number of acres of Land.
Inhabitants of the South Parish                                    838
Eatable Polls                                                  201
Mone^ at Interest by last Valuation                           $22,950
Including | of the number of acres of Land.
 - 93 - 
76                 SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Business Enterprises. —With the increase of pop-
ulation and wealth there came also a revival of business
enterprises, and soon after the beginning of the  nine-
teenth  century a new era of prosperity dawned upon
the town, commencing at Weymouth Landing, at the
head  of  tide-water  on  Fore  River,  and  gradually
extending over other parts  of the  town.  In 1805  a
turnpike was built through Weymouth, opening a more
direct  communication between Boston and Plymouth,
by which the village  at the Landing was largely the
gainer.   Under  the  lead  of  Capt.  Samuel Arnold,
Levi Bates and others, various branches of mechanical
industry were started, and a new life infused into the
community.   Within a  few years a large number of
buildings were erected within a radius of half a mile.
Many of them, in magnitude and value,  have hardly
been surpassed to the present  day.   ISTavigation was
resumed, and quite a brisk trade carried on between the
town and Boston by means of sailing packets, which
ran regularly; and it was in these days that shoe man-
ufacturing  commenced, which has  since  grown into
such vast proportions.
In 1800, March 10, there is  found for the first time
upon the  records the warrant for  the  town meeting
entered in full, a custom that has been continued ever
since; and under date of May 11, 1801, are found the
qualifications  of voters at that time,  who were to be
twenty-one years  of age, and to  possess a  freehold
valued at sixty pounds, or one yielding an income of
three pounds (free suffrage had not yet become the law
of the land).
The town, which was always conservative, did not
look altogether with favor upon the new enterprises,
but viewed with jealous eyes the proposition to open
new roads through its  borders and construct bridges
across the rivers, and went so far  (Feb. 3,  1803)  as
 - 94 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              77
to choose a committee to oppose them before the com-
mittee  of the  General  Court, which had the matter
imder  consideration, —such  men  as   Cotton  Tufts,
Ehphalet Loud and Major John White being  fore-
most  in  the  opposition, —but  the  roads  and  the
bridges were built,  and the town was the  better for
them.                   i-
PosT-OmcB.—In 1804, Feb. 6, the town instructed
the  selectmen  to  petition  the  Postmaster-General to
establish  a  post-office  at  or  near  the  head of navi-
gation  at  Fore  River.   This village,  although the
youngest in  town,  was already  the  most important.
The answer to this  petition was the establishment of
the tirst  post-ofiice in Weymouth.  In 1809 the new
work-house at  the  Landing was completed,  costing
about  sixteen hundred dollars,  and was used for  the
accommodation of the town's poor until the purchase
of the present town farm, in 1839.  March 12,  1810,
the  selectmen  and the physicians of the  town were
appointed a committee to  superintend the inoculation
with cow-pox.
Warwith England. —Daring the war with Great
Britain, in  1812-15, many of the young men of the
town engaged in the service by land and sea, but the
action of the town shows very little  movement in  con-
nection  with the  subject, there  being but four votes
standing upon its records relating to the matter.   May
21,  1812,  the  town voted to  each enlisted soldier a
bounty of five  dollars, and ten dollars  per month pay
while in actual service; and June 30, 1814, it was voted
to make the pay of non-commissioned officers and pri-
vates, now or hereafter in the service, equal to fifteen
dollars per month, and the same to  those  called  out
upon the alarm at  Cohasset, and who remained there
 - 95 - 
78                 SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
until  leg-ally  dismissed.  A committee of safety  was
also chosen, to consist of the selectmen (three) and six
others.  On the 7th of ^^ovember the town votedtwelve
hundred dollars to pay the soldiers and build a maga-
zine.
Alarm at  Coiiasset. —The nearest approach to
actual hostilities that the town experienced during that
war was upon the occasion of this " alarm at Cohasset,"
which occurred on a Sunday, Adjt. Gushing notifying
the militia in the meeting-houses while the people were
attending divine service.   It was reported that a land-
ing had been effected from an English ship-of-war that
was cruising  along the coast, committing many petty
depredations,  and that there was necessity for imme-
diate assistance.   The infantry and artillery companies
from Weymouth responded at once, but the alarm was
a false one and there was no need of troops.
Mechanical industry being then in its  infancy, and
needing the services of only a part of the men, numbers
of these  had entei'ed  the  mercantile  marine,  and at
the opening of the war, this  branch of service being
paralyzed, many of them found employment in the navy
and upon privateers.
A change appears upon the records in May, 1818,
with respect to the qualification of voters, —an income
from fi'eehold  estate often dollars, or such an estate
valued at two hundred dollars, being required, and an
age of twenty-one years.
Town Lines. —In the beginning of the third vol-
ume of the town general records there  is  a full  de-
scription  of the  town lines,  as  measured by James
Humphrey, Esq.,^  in  1794, probably the most correct
'  Appendix D.
 - 96 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.              79
and reliable of any to  be found upon any record.^
Aug. 21, 1820, a committee was appointed to oppose
the petition of the Hingham and Quincy turnpike to
the General Court to have the allowance paid to vessels
passing through their draw-bridges removed.
Manufacturing-  CoMPAisriES  discouiia.ged. —In
the years 1822 and 1824 committees of manufacturing
companies were looking over the State in search of the
most desirable water privileges, with a view of select-
ing a location, and Weymouth Back River appears to
have been preferred.   In the former year,  Aug. 12,
Samuel Hubbard and others had so far decided in favor
of this  locality,  that they requested  of the town the
'  The following is a copy of the township lines taken from the record
of James Humphrey, Esq., from measurements made by him in 1794: —
Line between Hingham & Weymouth, lieginning on the line  at the
south corner of Weymouth.
1.   JSr.  13, E. 188 Eods.  Spruce Tree W. H.
2.   N. 14, E. 132 Eods.  Eoad by Smith's.
Note. —After running 32 Rods North, 14 East, marked a spruce W.H.;  also marked another
epruce.
3.   North 11^, E.  80 Eods.
4.      "   14,  E.  26 Eods.  Meeting house N. 81 W.
5.   North 141, e. 100 Eods.
6.      "   13|, E. 988  "    Eoad beyond Binney's.
7.      "   13^, E.  17  "  then turning and following a river called
Fresh River to the sea.  Distance 4 miles 251 rods from Abington (on the
line) to Fresh Eiver.
Line between Weymouth & Abington, Beginning at the south corner
of Weymouth.
S. 74, W. 46 rods to the road.
S. 72, W. 110 "  S. 75,  W. 20 rods, S. 69i W. 49 rods.
S. 68, W. 70 "  S. 66,  W. 20  "   S. 70, W. 45
"
S. 70, W. 72 "  S. 77^, W. 14  "   S. 69, W. 320  "
S. 77, W. 36 "  S. 72,  W. 18  "   S. 69, W. 180
"
Abington Line 1000 rods (3 miles &40 rods).
Line between Weymouth & Braintree & Eandolph, Beginning at the
Smelt Brook near the Bridge.
Course S. 14, W. to the southwest corner of Weymouth.
Line against Braintree 3 miles 182 rods.
"    "   Randolph 2  "   118  "
5       300
 - 97 - 
80                SKKTCII OF WErMOUTII.
privilege  of purchasing the alewife  fishery,  the only
serious difficulty;  but the town, valuing a small present
income morehighly than a large one in prospect, refused.
Again, April 5, 1824, Gen. W. H. Sumner and others,
impressed with the value of the water privilege, offered
the town two hundred dollars per year for ten years,
agreeing to make a sufficient fishway by which the fish
could ascend into the pond above, to employ a capital
of one hundred thousand dollars, and pay a parish tax
to be divided between the three parishes.  But the town,
with  strange short-sightedness, again  refused.   Had
better counsels prevailed,  Weymouth might now be
what Lowell is.    On May 2, 1825, Gen. Sumner again
renewed his request, with a still  more favorable propo-
sition, but the town would not consent.^
In 1831 the report of the expenses of the town was
printed for the first time.
Surplus Revenue.—In 1836 the general govern-
ment found itself  in  the  anomalous condition of an
overflowing treasury,  and a large sum amounting to
many millions  was distributed  among the States for
their  use  as  a  loan.    Massachusetts  distributed  its
share among the  several  towns, and  Weymouth, in
1837, after one of the most hotly contested struggles
in its history, having called no fewer than eight meet-
ings  upon the  matter,  divided  its  share  among the
'  This proposition was:
—
1.   To pay the town $1,000 for the fish right.
2.   To leave to a mutual reference to say what the fish right is worth,
and to abide its decision.
3.   To erect a proper fishway, satisfactory to a commissionerappointed
by the governor and council, or the Court of Common Pleas, who shall
have authority to settle all  difficulties that may arise between the town
and the proprietors of the water privilege.
The town voted to accept the third proposition, but difficulties were
thrown in the way and it was never carried out.
 - 98 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              81
inhabitants,  jiro  rata,  taking  notes  therefor,  which
was in  reality  a  perpetual loan witliout interest, for
on March IG,  I808, the town voted to  destroy  the
notes,  amounting to  |6,14G.40,  they  being outlawed
and worthless.
Anti-Slavery  Resolutions. —Soon  after   this
time  the  anti-slavery  agitation commenced, and  an
earnest, determined body of  its  friends  were  found
among the  citizens,  and so  vigorous  and successful
were their efibrts, that a strong sentiment was created
in the town in favor of the movement, so strong that
when, in 1842,  George Latimer, a fugitive slave, lay
in Boston jail,  at  the  instance of his alleged master,
James B.  Gray,  of Virginia, a  series  of indignant
resolutions were passed at the meeting held ISTov.  14,
protesting against the act.
In 1837 another movement was made byJacobPerkins
and others toward the improvement of the water privi-
lege at East Weymouth, in the interest of iron manu-
facturers, which, after long and tedious negotiations and
litigations, resulted in the establishment of the Wey-
mouth Iron Company, which has proved one ofthe most
important business enterprises of the town.
Pay of Town Officers.—At the March meeting,
in 1843, it was voted to pay town officers one dollar per
day for their services, the clerk to have no pay for town-
meeting days.  This seems to have been the beginning
of regular payments for this purpose, but an advance
from time to time has increased the sum to three times
its original amount.
In 1847 a strong eflPort was again made for a division
of the town, but like that offifty years previous, it proved
unsuccessful, the vote on the question being taken by a
committee going from house to house, with the following
6
 - 99 - 
82                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
result: 460 in favor and 465 against, 72 not voting and
56 not found;   of the nays, 359 were in the SouthParish.
This agitation was renewed again in 1850 with a similar
result.
On ]^ov. 12, 1850, strong, denunciatory resolutions
against the fugitive-slave law werepassed, andon March
10,  succeeding, the town voted that they be expunged
from the record, which was accordingly done by writing
across their face.   Thus the record stood until March,
1880, when the latter vote was rescinded, and the record
stands as originally made in favor of the resolutions and
as the voice of the town.
Town Records. —The original town records being
badly worn and in  a very dilapidated condition, the
selectmen were instructed to have them transcribed, also
to look up the books belonging to the town, have them
catalogued, and to procure a safe in which to keep them.
The first and last clauses of the vote were carried into
effect, but that relating to the catalogue remained unat-
tended to.^
And again  on March 13,  1854, a series  of strong
anti-slavery resolutions stand upon the records as the
expression of the town.
Town Hall.—In 1852, in view of the want of a
proper place for holding town meetings, and for quarters
for town offices, the town hall was built on the westerly
side  of Washington Street,  at  the  corner of Middle
Street,  and yerj near the geographical centre of the
'  The date of the earliest book of records now in possession  of the
town is  not known with  certainty, but is  probably that ordered to be
purchased March 7,  1669-70.   Its records, however, date back to 1642,
and perhaps earlier, as some of the entries  are not dated.  The town
records are probably as full as those of other towns, and in a fair state of
preservation.
 - 100 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              83
town;  a  plain, inexpensive  structure, but which has
answered the  actual  necessities  of the town in  that
respect for over thirty years.
War of the Rebellion.—As will  be  seen,  the
records are very bare of interest, other than that which
attaches to the ordinary but necessary business of the
town, until the stirring days of 1861.   The long-con-
tinued quarrels in Congress upon the slavery question,
each year growing more intense and bitter, had culmi-
nated in a marshalling of the contending parties and the
election of a Republican President.   The crisis  was
brought about by accident, each party believing, until
the actual collision, that the other would give way and
not force matters to an extremity.  But the attack upon
Sumter, and the call of President Lincoln for volunteers,
decided the question in favor of war.   The spirit of the
people w^as aroused to the highest pitch and the greatest
enthusiasm prevailed.
Apublic meeting of the citizens was called  at once,
and the organization of a military company for  actual
service  commenced.  Volunteers for what was after-
wards Company H, Twelfth Regiment of Massachusetts
Volunteers, were enlisted; the company Avas soon filled,
and made choice of James L. Bates for captain, whose
after-record was the brightest  in the town's military
history.^   He passed through the  various  grades  of
service, and at the close of the war wore worthily the
honorable title  of brevet brigadier-general.  His regi-
ment saw the hardest service, and fought in twenty-eight
battles.
On the 29th of April a special town meeting was
called, at which five thousand dollars was voted to equip
this company and for other necessary expenses connected
' Appendix D.
 - 101 - 
/
84                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
therewith.   Each married man was to receive fifteen
dollars per month and each single manten dollars, while
in actual service under command of its officers; the same
to be paid to others whoshould hereafter enlist.  June 11,
1861, the selectmen were directed to furnish necessary-
aid, not exceeding fifteen dollars per month, to the wife,
and children under sixteen years of age, of men enlisted
by the town in the service;   also to  other near relatives
who might be  dependent upon them at  the time of
enlistment.
On the 10th March, 1862, ten thousand dollars was
appropriated for aid to the families of volunteers in the
field, and the poll-tax of last year's volunteers was also
remitted.
Military Records. —The selectmen wereinstructed
"to cause a record to be ^^repared and kept of all the
Weymouth soldiers engaged in the service of the gov-
ernment, with such details  as  may be obtained with
respect to them and their service, names, ages, residence,
and such particulars as maybe necessary to a full knowl-
edge of them and their service in the war."
"Within the first year of the Rebellion, Weymouthhad
put out for aid to families of soldiers over fifteen thou-
sanddollars, something over one third of which was to be
reimbursed by the State;   and in order to guard against
unforeseen  and sudden emergency " Union Guards
"
were formed, for whose supplies and necessary expense
the town also paid in the same time nearly a thousand
dollars more.
BouiSTTiES. —During the summer of1862, the urgency
for soldiers became so great and the call  so persistent
that the town, upon the report of a committee appointed
for the purpose, voted to pay a bounty of one hundred
and fifty dollars to each inhabitant who should enlist
 - 102 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              85
within ten days (July 25) as a volunteer in the United
States service for three years, unless sooner discharged,
under the call  of the governor, as per general  order
'No. 26, to be paid on being mustered in,  volunteers for
one year to be paid one hundred dollars; and nineteen
thousand dollars was appropriated for the purpose.
Upon the spur of this incentive, a second companywas
speedily raised,  which was mustered into the  service
Aug. 12, 1862, as  Company H, Thirty-fifth Eegiment
Massachusetts  Volunteers.   Benjamin F. Pratt  was
chosen captain, who was promoted through the several
grades of the service, and at the close of the war was
brevetted as brigadier-general.   This regiment and the
Twelfth saw very hard service in the Armyof the Poto-
mac, and their losses were very severe.   On the 19th of
August the town extended this oifer  to all  who should
enlist in the town's quota, whether inhabitants or not.
Town Bonds and Seal.—On the 4th of ISTovember
fifteen thousand dollars was appropriated for aid to the
families of soldiers who were inhabitants of the town
when enlisted.   At the same time it was voted to issue
town bonds not exceeding thirty thousand dollars, at
five per cent, and March 24, 1863, the selectmen were
instructed to procure a corporate seal, with the legend,
" Town of Weymouth, Mass., Incorporated 1635," for
the use of the townuponits bonds and other documents,
which was accordingly done.
In the fall  of that year a company of nine-months'
men were enlisted, and mustered into the service  Sept.
13, as Company A, Forty-second Eegiment Massachu-
setts  Volunteers, under the command of Col. Burrill.
Hiram S. Coburn was chosen its  captain.
On the 21st of July,  1863, the town voted three
dollars per week for aid to the families of volunteers
for one year, to fill up the town's quota, in addition to
 - 103 - 
86                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
the sum paid by the State, and the same amount for
a second year, provided they continue in the service so
long; and on N'ov. 23, one thousand dollars was placed
at the disposal of the recruiting committee, who were
to receive no pay for their services.
Contributions.—At the annual meeting, March 21,
1864, the town voted to raise twenty-tive thousand dol-
lars  for State aid,  and subsequently, April 9,  it  was
voted to refund the contributions made by citizens for
filling the town's quota of men under the calls  of the
President, Oct. 14 and Feb. 1, provided the contributors
agree in writing to  apply the same towards furnishing
the men called for March 14, 1864; and six thousand
five hundred dollars was appropriated for the purpose.
The recruiting committee was also instructed to solicit
subscriptions of money, to be used in raising men to
fill the present quota.   On the 20tli of May ten thou-
sand dollars  was voted for recruiting  under the last
call.
DiFricirr.TrES. —On the 8th of June the town voted
to pay one hundi-ed  and twenty-five  dollars  to  each
volunteer recruited  under  any call  of the Pi-esident
this  year,  or in  anticipation  of any future call,  this
enlistment to be made under the direction of the chair-
man of the board of selectmen.  There seemed at this
time to be great difficulty in answering the calls  of the
President, and so serious was the emergency that the
selectmen resigned in a body, but were afterwards per-
suaded to  withdraw their  resignations.   It  appeared,
also,  that  the  town was justified  in  making serious
complaint of the manner in  which the  enrolment of
those liable to military duty was made, as appears by
the  following resolves:  "That the enrolment of this
town is  fully twenty per cent larger than the average
 - 104 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              87
towns in the district, large numbers of whom are unfit
to be enrolled, and that the town request an equitable
enrolment.   That the  town believes  their  selectmen
and assessors to compare favorably with those of neigh-
boring towns, and feels  aggrieved that  they  should
have been entirely ignored in the matter of enrolment,
while those of other towns have been appointed to that
duty."
As the time approached for  the expiration of the
term of service of the Twelfth Regiment, the selectmen
were directed to proceed to Boston and receive Com-
pany Hof that regiment, and to invite those members
of the Eleventh Regiment who enlisted from this town
to assist in this  duty.  In the summer and autumn of
this year, a fourth company was enlisted for one year,
and mustered in as  Company Gr, Fourth Heavy Artil-
lery; Andrew J. Garey, captain.   Many of these were
re-enlistments of members of the Twelfth, Thirty-fifth
and other regiments whose terms of service had expired.
This company was stationed upon the fortifications near
Washington, and saw but little active service.
On the 8th of IS^ovemberthe town appropriated twelve
thousand dollars for bounties, not to exceed one hun-
dred and twenty-five  dollars to each man counted in
"Weymouth's quota under the next call.  March 20, 1865,
the town voted to borrow thirty thousand dollars on its
bonds at six per cent, to be sold as required;  and on the
22d of May the town voted to refund the money con-
tributed by individuals to aid in filling the quota of the
town in accordance with the law of April 25 of this
year;   a list to be prepared and payment to be made in
town notes, due Sept. 1, 1866.  On the 21st of Decem-
ber a committee was chosen to  consider the subject of
a  soldiers'  monument and report,   A vote was also
passed to pay two years' aid to all who had not received
it;  also, to pay each man drafted July, 1863, who fur-
 - 105 - 
88                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
nishcd a substitute, whether the latter remained in the
service or not, payable in  town notes in  three years
with interest.
This completes the record in brief of Weymouth dur-
ing the war, as far as it  appears upon its  books;   but
before a correct judgment can be formed as to what the
town actually did in  the great struggle for existence
that the country carried on during the four 3'ears from
1861 to 1865, it will be necessary to go somewhat more
into detail, and to ascertain more nearly the number of
men sent into the field and what became of them.  It is
well  known that the  town answered all  of the calls
made upon it,  but what was their measure?  As before
noticed, there were enlisted four full companies; these
were sent into the service and performed all  the duties
required of them, which in many instances were neither
few nor light; besides these, enlistments were made for
all the various branches of the service, infantry, artil-
lery and cavalry, in more than fifty different organiza-
tions, as well as many in the navy.  The whole number
actually contributed by the town probably will never be
accurately known, but upon its  records are the names
ofnearly eight hundred;   without question enough have
been omitted to carry the total above that number, or
nearly one in ten of its  population.
Of these,  ninety-eight have their  names upon the
soldiers' monument as having been killed in battle or
died in the service.   Beside these,  and this list  is  by
no means complete, more than a hundred are reported
as wounded, and nearly forty taken prisoners, many of
whom died in rebel  prisons.   And of the whole num-
ber,  only eight,  less  than  one in a hundred, are re-
ported as deserters, and some of these returned to their
regiments.  This certainly is  an honorable record and
one of which the town may well be proud; and when
the history of Weymouth in the Kebellion is  written,
 - 106 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              89
which will some day be a fact, it will be made sure that
this town is entitled to a high place among the thou-
sands that contributed cheerfully and liberally towards
the accomplishment of the same noble purpose.
FiJ>rAL  Attempt to divide the Town. —Several
attempts were made to revive the question of a division
of the town, and March 19,  1866, a vote was actually
passed to do this  (two hundred and sixty-nine to two
hundred and  thirty-nine)  upon the  northerly line of
the fifth  and sixth school districts, and a committee of
one appointed from each district to carry the vote into
effect; but the matter appears to have been dropped, to
be again called up March 4,  1878, when the selectmen
and three from each ward, twenty in all,  were consti-
tuted a committee to take the whole matter into consid-
eration and report.   This report w^as made at the next
annual meeting, held March 3, 1879, and was unanimous
that it was inexpedient to divide the town at that time,
and the report was accepted.^
1  The town of Weymouth is divided into four principal villages:  Wey-
mouth, or the " Landing," as it  is  called, at the head of tide-water on
Fore River, South Weymouth, East Weymouth, and North Weymouth,
or " Old Spain," a name by which it  has gone from time immemorial,
and whose origin cannot now be traced, besides several smaller villages,
as Lovell's Corner, between East and South Weymouth, and the  Old
North, central between the Landing, East Weymouth and Old Spain.
The larger villages are upon most points separated from each other by
wide tracts  of  unsettled territory,  and are  governed largely by local
interests and influences.   Hence there has been from the first a great
deal of friction in the management of the town's business, amounting
often to almost open quarrel.  This has been conspicuously the case in the
parish and school matters, and the result has been the various attempts
to divide the town.   This want of harmony, growing out of its  local
divisions, has also impaired largely the  influence of the town, which,
from its -population, wealth and business, should be one of  the most
important in the State.   These remarks are intended to explain much of
the action that appears upon the records which would otherwise be diffi-
cult to understand.
 - 107 - 
90                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Soldiers' Monument. —After  various  votes  and
appropriations, a soldiers'  monument was erected upon
Burying Hill, in  the old Korth Cemetery,  upon the
easterly  side  of  the  highway,  consisting of a  plain
granite obelisk, suitably commemorating the names and
services of those who perished in the Rebellionin defence
of their country, and was dedicated in 1868.^
On the 21st of March, 1870, it  was voted to divide
the town into five wards, for  convenience in carrying
on the necessary public business.   This was accord-
ingly done, and it remains thus to the present day.   In
1871, March 6, the first appropriation was made for the
celebration of Memorial Day, and the vote has been
annually repeated ever since.
Thk Two Huistdred and Fiftieth Anniversary.
—At the  annual meeting held March 2, 1874,  a com-
mittee was chosen to make arrangements to  celebrate
the two hundred and fiftieth  anniversary of the set-
tlement  of the  town,  and the  same committee was
also  authorized  to  engage some one to prepare  and
publish a history of the  town.  The first  vote  was
carried into effect on the 4th of July of that year, by
a public  meeting upon King Oak Hill,  with appro-
priate services, among which was an historical address
by Charles  Francis  Adams, Jr.,  Esq., whose great-
grandmother,  Abigail  Smith, wife  of  John Adams,
second Pi-esident of the United States, inferior to none
of the honorable women mentioned in the national his-
tory, was born and reared within a short distance ofthe
spot where the address was delivered.   The occasion
was one of great  interest,  being the  second of the
kind held in Massachusetts, and was celebrated with
'  For a full descriptioa of this monument and of  the services at its
dedication, see the  Weymouth Gazette and Mew England Qenealogical
.    Begister of corresponding dates.
 - 108 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.               91
much enthusiasm by a large nmuber of the citizens  of
this and other towns, who were cordially invited to the
entertainment.*
Water Question. —The last  important business
found upon the town records is  upon the question of
supplying the  town with water from  Great  Pond.
Many and urgent had been the calls demanding this  or
some other  means by which the inhabitants  and the
rapidly growing necessities of the town should be fur-
nished with an ample supply of water.  Efforts were
put forward to that end, and a  charter was obtained
from the Legislature of 1882-3, of sufficient powers to
cover the  undertaking.  On the  18th of  September,
1883, a town meeting was called, at which it was voted,
by a large majority, to accept the WaterAct, and on the
25th of the same month a board of water commissioners
was chosen, and instructed to cause to be made thor-
ough surveys and estimates of all work and costs pro-
posed by the Act, and to make a report of the same at
a special meeting to be called for the purpose.  This,
one of the most important enterprises  ever undertaken
by the town, has not reached its  present stage without
violent  opposition.   The unfortunate situation  of the
town in respect to its various villages, with their often
conflicting  interests,  and  the  jealousies  occasioned
thereby, has shown itself in  this  matter, as in  nearly
every important movement that has ever been proposed,
and its success, however much it may be desired, is  not
yet assured.   (The final action assuring it  has since
been taken, and the work is in progress.)
'  This was probably the most interesting gathering ever held in  the
town, and was participated in  by the citizens  generally, resident  and
non-resident, and was also attended by many invited guests from other
places.   The proceedings were published in full, by the town, with the
address of Mr. Adams, and is one of the most important additions to its
historical material yet presented to the public.
 - 109 - 
92               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Fire DBPARTMEisrT. —Until quite recently the town,
officially,  had made no attempt to  afford its  citizens
protection against fire.   What had been dono was the
work of volunteer companies, or of fii-e districts in which
the town government had no part.   Ahalf-century or
more ago a small hand-engine, called the "Aquarius,"
manned by a company of volunteers, was located  at
Weymouth Landing, which was for  many years  the
only protection  against fire,  other than the primitive
hand and bucket  arrangement.   Some twenty years
later several  fire  districts  were erected in  town, and
hand-engines provided for  them.   At that  time  the
town attempted some action in the same direction, and
went so far as to choose a committee to purchase four
engines and the necessary apparatus to go with them,
for the  four  principal villages.   This was April 29,
1844 ;     but on the  following  May 7  this  vote  was
rescinded, and the matter remained in its  previous con-
dition until March 5, 1877, when a committee of three
from each ward was chosen to organize a "fire depart-
ment."  In accordance with the report of this commit-
tee, the town, on the 15th of May, votedto purchase three
fire-engines, hose-carriages, etc.,  two hook-and-ladder
trucks and fifteen hundred feet of hose; also to build
three engine-houses and construct five reservoirs, appro-
priating 118,000 therefor.  Onthe 30th of January, 1878,
a vote was jjassed making a further appropriation of
$1,100 for another hand-engine.  OnMay 2, |2,000 was
voted for an engine andhose-carriage.  In March, 1880,
a steam fii-e-engine was purchased for Ward III., at a
cost of $3,200,  and in 1883, $4,200 was appropriated
for a steamer for Ward II.   Thus it will be seen that
the town has made a beginning in this important mat-
ter, which only needs to be supplemented by the intro-
duction of water from Great Pond, as  proposed by
recent votes, or from some other source, to afford really
effective protection.
 - 110 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              93
Growth of the Town.—It may be of intei'est  to
note the gradual growth of the town expenses from the
begmning, when almost every separate item was voted
upon in open town meeting and there were almost no
general appropriations, until  the  present  time,  when
the annual expenditiu-e of the  town is  not far from
1100,000.  On May 23, 1751, is  noted the first general
appropriation for the  poor, amounting to  £20.  The
highways were provided for by personal labor, and it
was not until after the year 1800 that anything like
regular, stated appropriations were made.  Beginning
with the year 1820, the average sums appropriated for
expenses, other than schools and highways, were for the
ten years from 1820 to  1830,  about $1,400;  for  the
succeeding decade, from 1830 to 1840, about $2,000;
from 1840 to  1850, about $4,000, an increase of one
hundred per cent; from 1850 to  18G0, about $7,000;
from 1860 to 1870, about $15,000; and from 1870 to
1880, about $25,000, an increase in  half a century of
nearly eighteen hundred per cent, w^hile the increase of
population was but little  more than four hundred per
cent.
The expenditure for  schools, aside from the  build-
ings, beginning at  about $100, had risen in  the year
1800 to about $500.  From IbOO to  1810, the yearly
average was about $700;  from 1810 to 1820, about
$1,000; from 18.0 to 1830, about $1,000 to $1,200 (in
1821 there were 895  children of school  age) ;    from
1830 to  1840,  from $1,200 to  $2,000; from 1840 to
1850, from $2,500 to $3,500 (in 1842 there were 1,099
children of  school  age) ;     from 1850  to  1860,  from
$3,500 to  $7,000; from 1860 to  1870, from $8,500 to
$15,000; from 1870 to  1880, from $20,000 to $26,000,
an increase  since  1821 of 2,500 per  cent,  while the
number of school children had increased but about 125
per cent (the census of 1880 showing 2,028 children
of school age).
 - 111 - 
94                SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
The increase of population for the first  century and
a half was very  small  indeed, the estimate for 1643
being  about  1,000.   The next  estimate is  from the
Egerton manusci'ipt in the British Museum, and dates
about 1675, in which the number of houses set down
for  Weymouth, in  round numbers, is  250;  allowing
five to a house, this would give a population  of 1,250.
In 1750 the estimate  was 1,200.   A census in 1765
showed 1,258, while that of 1776 indicated 1,471, and
in  1790 this  had declined to  1,469.   In 1800 quite a
gain was shown in  a total  of 1,803.   The following
ten years there was an increase  of but 86, while in
1820 the number had increased to  2,407.   From this
time the gain was rapid, the  census of 1830 giving a
population  of  2,837,  while  that  of 1840  was 3,738,
and that of 1850 stood at 5,369.   The succeeding ten
years showed an increase of over forty per cent, giving
a total  of 7,742.   In 1870 the population was 9,010,
and in 1880, 10,570, a gain in the present century of
almost five hundred per cent.
The appraised  value  of the  real  property  was in
1853,  11,138,999;  and of the personal,  $619,483:  a
total of $1,758,482.  In 1875 the real estate was valued
at $3,863,523; and the personal, $2,107,711: a total of
$5,971,234.  This was the last State valuation.
These statistics show, in  a comparative degree, the
wonderful development of the town in material resour-
ces, and also its rapid progress in mechanical pursuits,
while  the indications are not wanting that  promise a
long continuance of its prosperity.
 - 112 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              95
CHAPTEli V.
Ecclesiastical History—Congregational Churches—The First  Church.
The First Church.—There is no record of the or-
ganization of this church.  It is  simply recognized by
its name at the earliest mention as an established in-
stitution well known to contemporaneous writers.   It
has already been stated that with the Gorges Company
in  162)3 came Rev. William Morrell, a clergyman of
good reputation in the Church of England, of culture
and learning; that he remained in  the plantation for
perhaps a year and a half, and then gave up his charge,
returning to England by way of Plymouth.  He was
an amiable gentleman of refinement and remarkable dis-
cretion, well suited to have the charge of an English
parish, but scarcely adapted to the needs of a 'New Eng-
land settlement at that day.  Mr. Morrell brought with
him a commission from the Ecclesiastical Court in Eng-
land to  exercise  a  kind of superintendency over the
churches already existing or which might be established
here.    This  commission was to  empower him with
authority over all churches in the colony, and as " all
meant only Plymouth, over which he was hardly in a
position to claim jurisdiction, he obeyed the dictates of
his good sense andrefrained from any attemptto exercise
his authority.
The conditions under which the settlement at Wey-
mouth was made rendered it unnecessary to organize a
parish, for it  already existed as  a  matter of fact, and
the church was a branch of the Church of England in
this remote corner of its kingdom3   and evidently to the
 - 113 - 
96                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
care of his parish Mr. Morrell devoted himself so long
as he remained.  The religious element does not seem
to have been predominant in this  settlement, and the
surroundings and influences being such as to give but
little promise of future benefit, Mr. Morrell returned to
his own country, leaving the remnant of his flock to the
mercy of circumstances.  In the following year, 1624,
according to " Prince's Annals," which, from the facilities
in  the hands of the compiler, seems fairly conclusive,
there came in another company, to join the planters at
Wessaguscus, from Weymouth, England.  These were
probably a mixed party, with the independent element
predominant, since it  is  stated that they brought with
them a non-conformistminister bythe name of Barnard,
who remained with  them until  his  death.   Nothing
more is known of him or of his administration over this
people.   There was no need to organize a church, since
one after the Episcopal form already existed.   It simply
changed its "rector " for a " minister."   There was no
need even  to throw off the  authority of the bishop,
since  there was no oflicer of that  order to  claim the
rule,  and thus  for  a  dozen years  afl'airs   remained,
the  continual  influx of planters  of various religious
ideas preventing, probably, any very decided opinions
from becoming predominant.
There was unquestionably some kind of a house of
worship erected, probably a rude, temporary structure,
corresponding to  the  dwellings  of  the  people.   No
mention, however, is made of this, which in a few years
was replaced  by a more convenient  and substantial
building erected upon Burying Hill.
In the summer of 1635 a large addition was made
to the little settlement by the  arrival of a company of
about a hundred people, under the leadership of Rev.
Joseph Hull, sailing from Weymouth, Eng., but gath-
ered from the county of Somerset and the neighbor-
 - 114 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              97
hood.  Mr. Hull came in the interest of the Episcopacy,
being a graduate of Oxford of 1612, and as recently as
1632, rector of Northleigh, Devon; but finding that the
condition of the plantation was such as hardly to justify
an attempt to establish the Episcopal form of worship in
the immediate vicinity of so many dissenters, and prob-
ably with a leaning in the latter direction himself,  he
fell  in with the current and became a moderate dis-
senter.   There having been no minister here since the
death of Mr. Barnard, the  situation  seemed favorable
for the selection of Mr. Hull to fill  that ofiice,  and he
undoubtedly preached here for a time as minister of the
church, but other elements were at  work which soon
developed  themselves as  an opposition.   There were
remnants of the Gorges Company still  favoring their
old  order,  while  there were many new-comers from
Dorchester, Boston and other places, who favored the
Puritans and the authority of Gov. Winthrop.  These
latter seem to have been a strong party, and were evi-
dently dissatisfied with Mr. Hull, for they soon gave a
call to Mr. Thomas Jenner, of Roxbury, who, in the
early part of 1636, came into the settlement and became
its  minister, while Mr. Hull seems  to  have  removed
temporarily to Hingham.
There does not appear to have been the utmost har-
mony among the inhabitants, for in the  following year
a  council of the  elders was called to "reconcile the
difference between Mr. Jenner and his people," and the
difl&culty  was so  serious  that  the  governor and his
council were compelled to step in and arrange matters.
This trouble offered a favorable opportunity for a third
party to throw itself into the breach in the  hope of
becoming possessors of the field.   These, in 1637, gave
an invitation to Rev Robert Lenthal to become their
minister.   Mr.Lenthal had recently comefrom England,
where many of the Weymouth people had been under
7
 - 115 - 
98                 SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
his ministry;  hence the invitation, which he did not
hesitate to accept.   He, also, remained here for several
years, but was in constant trouble and difficulty, and in
1639 was tried for heresy before a council held in Dor-
chester, but the result was unsatisfactory, as it  settled
nothing.  Anattempt seems to have been made at this
time to form another church, the difficulty was so great,
but without success.
The Weymouth Church, then, in 16.38-9, found itself
in this  position.   Mr. Hull claimed to be the minis-
ter, and occasionally exercised the office, with a strong
body of adherents.   Mr. Jenner still  remained, with
the official  favor to  sustain  him; while  Mr. Lenthal
preached  as  circumstances  would permit,  and had a
large following.   This condition of things in a village
no larger than Weymouth of that date could not be
supported, and in the latter year,  1639, Rev. Samuel
Newman, a graduate of Oxford of 1620, and a man of
excellent reputation, was invited to come in as a harmo-
nizer.   How this was to be effected does not now ap-
pear;  nevertheless he came, and there was displayed the
extraordinary phenomenon, for those days, of four min-
isters of the same denomination contending for a single
pulpit  in  one small  community.  This,  however, did
not continue, for Mr. Hull and Mr. Lenthal retired in
1639, and Mr. Jenner in 1640, leaving Mr. I^ewman in
possession;   but the confficting elements were too many
and discordant for his peaceable nature, and after a min-
istry of about four years he, with a large body of his
friends, removed to Rehoboth, leaving the church with-
out  a pastor.   He was succeeded by Rev.  Thomas
Thacher, who was settled  Jan.    1644, and remained
pastor of the church for twenty years, when he removed
to Boston, and was afterwards installed as the first pas-
tor of the Third Church (Old South).       He was the first
minister ordained in  Weymouth, all  of his  predeces-
 - 116 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.              99
sors having received their ordination in England.  He
had an  excellent reputation  as  a preacher,  and  w^as
also an able physician, a man of talent  and education.
Under his ministrations  the people, by vv^hom he was
beloved and revered, enjoyed a long period of rest and
prosperity,  very pleasant  after  the  vexations  of the
previous years.
During the pastorate of Mr. Thacher the  old meet-
ing-house,  which stood  upon Burying Hill,  on the
westerly side of the present highway, and nearly op-
posite the site  of the soldiers' monument, had become
so much in need of repairs that the townsmen, Dec.
14,  1652,  were directed "to  do what was necessary
to  make it  more comfortable, and prevent any further
decay."  In the early days of the town, until it  was
divided in 1723 into two precincts, it  constituted one
precinct, and all parish business was transacted in town
meeting.  The minister was hired and his maintenance
provided by the town; and as it  possessed at this time
no parsonage, the minister provided his  own dwelling,
which, upon his  leaving, was purchased by the town
and sold to his successor, with the condition that should
he leave or die without children, the town should have
the privilege of buying the property.
Mr. Thacher was followed in the  ministry by Eev.
Samuel Torrey, who was ordained Feb. 11-,  1665.  Eev.
Emerson Davis says he preached there from 1656, as
colleague of Mr.  Thacher.   He was certainly there
Nov. 28, 1664.  Mr. Torrey was son of Capt. William
Torrey, born  in England in  1632;  educated at  Har-
vard College, but owing to an extension of the course
of study for a year he, with some of his  associates,
became dissatisfied and left the institution without grad-
uation.   He remained pastor of the church in Wey-
mouth until his  death, April 21, 1707, a period of over
forty-two years.   He was a man of great and acknowl-
 - 117 - 
100               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
edged ability, of excellent reputation as a preacher, and
in  1G84 was chosen president  of  Harvard College,
which position he declined.   Three times he preached
the election sermon,—an honor never before conferred.
In 1667 the meeting-house was again repaired, and a
bell procured and hung.  Up to the year 1671, although
there is  much upon the records concerning the minis-
ter's rates and providing for his maintenance, there is
no amount stated for his salary.   This year the matter
was thoroughly discussed, and arrangements were made
to pay Mr. Torrey fifty pounds per year, and five mem-
bers of the precinct became bound for its  payment, ten
pounds per man.  This was to be paid in money, or its
equivalent of eighty pounds in  current pay.  In 1673
ten pounds in wood (twenty cords) was added, and in
1680 his  salary  was increased ten pounds.  In 1682
the meeting-house had become so old and decayed that
the town voted to pull it  down, and a new one was
erected upon land bought of Capt. John Holbrook, the
site  of  the  present  meeting-house.  This house was
forty-five feet by forty, and twenty feet between joints,
with four gable-ends, costing in all  two hundred and
eighty pounds.  In 1697-8 the town voted an addi-
tion of twelve pounds to the minister's salary.
After the death of Mr. Torrey a call was given to
Mr. Peter Thacher of Boston,  a  grandson of Rev.
Thomas Thacher, the former minister, at  a salary of
seventy pounds and a " convenient settlement."  It was
a custom of those days to grant the minister upon his
settlement a certain sum to pay his expense of removal
or " setting up housekeeping," equal usually to one or
more years' salary.   This did not appear to  be quite
satisfactory,  and the  sum was increased ten pounds,
with his firewood added.  This call was accepted, and
Mr. Thacher was ordained ISTov.  26, 1707.  He was a
popular  preacher, and very highly  esteemed  by his
 - 118 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             101
people, among whom he Uved in great harmony nntil
1718, when a prospect of a call to Boston introduced a
disturbing  element, in consequence of which he was
dismissed, and afterwards settled, as colleague of Rev.
Mr. Webb, over the North Church, Boston.  He was a
graduate of Harvard of 1696.  His manner of leaving
Weymouth was very unsatisfactory, and the cause of
much ill-feeling on that account.   During the ministry
of Mr. Thacher the town purchased a parsonage for the
minister of Zachariah Bicknell, which has been a per-
manent establishment in the parish since that time.
On March 27,  1719,  the town concurred with the
church in a call given Feb. 26 to Mr. Thomas Paine, of
Barnstable, to be their minister upon a salary of ninety
pounds and the use of the parsonage.  He was ordained
Aug. 19, 1719.  He remained the pastor until April 15,
1 731, when he was dismissed.  It was during his min-
istry, in 1723, that the south part of the town was set
off as the Second Precinct.   This withdrew a large part
of the population and property,  so that  it  was with
great difficulty that the parish expenses were met, and
in  consequence much trouble  arose  with Mr. Paine
during the later years of his service, which was eventu-
ally the cause of his  leaving.   For several years his
family had resided in Boston, while he performed his
official  duties in Weymouth.  Mr. Paine graduated at
Harvard in  1717,  and was,  in  point  of ability  and
acquirements,  the  equal  of any of his  predecessors,
with the possible exception  of Mr. Torrey.  He was
of a kind and amiable disposition, and won the affec-
tion of his  people to a remarkable degree, and had it
not been for  the unfortunate pecuniary condition of
the parish there would have been no occasion for his
leaving.
In August, 1634, after the dismission of Mr. Paine,
a call was extended to Mr. William Smith, of Charles-
 - 119 - 
102               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
town, to become the minister, at a salary of one hundred
and sixty pounds and three hundred pounds settlement,
the latter to be paid one hundred pounds annually for
three years, all in  bills  of credit.   This invitation was
accepted, and on the first Wednesday of December he
was ordained as pastor of the First Church and Parish
in Weymouth, which office  he retained until his death,
Sept. 17, 1783, in his seventy-seventh year.   He was a
graduate of Harvard of 1725.  The following epitaph
upon his gravestone gives, probably, a correct estimate
of his character: "As a Divine he was eminent As a
Preacher of the Gospel eloquent and devotional in life
he exhibited the Virtues of the Peligion which he had
taught in Death felt its Supports and closed a long and
useful life with hopes full of immortality."  Prepossess-
ing and conciliatory, he soon became a favorite, espe-
cially among the young.  He was lively and animated
as a speaker, and through his long ministry of nearly
forty-nine  years —the  longest  on the record  of the
church—he was highly esteemed and beloved.  He,
however, is best known as the father of three daughters,
who married three men, all  of whom became eminent.
Hon. Richard Cranch married Marj, the eldest; Abi-
gail  became the  wife  of  John Adams, the  second
President of the United States, and was the mother of
John Quincy Adams, the  sixth  President;  the third
daughter,  Elizabeth,  married  Rev.  John  Shaw,  of
Haverhill, a man of standing and reputation.
He was minister through the Revolutionary war, with
its  stirring scenes, and died just as the day of peace
was dawning upon the land.   The difficulties  of the
times, with a divided town and a fluctuating currency,
made it  often hard to raise the amount necessary for
his  support, and the  records  are  largely  filled  with
endeavors to arrange this matter.  At the commence-
ment of his ministry, in its  second year, he had a long
 - 120 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             103
and severe sickness, which disabled him from service
for the time; and later on, in 17G9 and 1770, he was
again  disabled  by the  same cause,  and  for  several
months his pulpit was supplied by James Blake, A.B.,
of Dorchester, a graduate of Harvard, of 1769, a young
man of  rare  excellence  and promise,  who came to
Weymouth to  teach  school,  and after  a  little  time,
supplied the pulpit during the illness  of Mr. Smith, in
which position he died, 'Nov. 17, 1771, within a month
of his twenty-first birthday.   A volume of his sermons
was afterwards published.
On the 23d of April, 1751, a great disaster befell the
parish in the loss of its  meeting-house by fire.   The
loss was a severe and heavy one for the people at that
time, especially as the parish was passing through the
most fatal  epidemic that has ever been known in the
history of the town, one in ten of the population per-
ishing  with  the  terrible  "throat  distemper,"  among
others Major Adam Gushing, the foremost man of his
day in town and in  the parish.   They were not dis-
couraged, however, but set to work with energy and
determination; and within a  year  a  new house  was
ready for use, which was occupied by the parish eighty
years.   It was with the commencement of Mr, Smith's
ministry  that  the  earliest  records now in possession
of  the  church  had their  beginning,  and these  are
exceedingly meagre, other than the noting of statistics,
admissions  to  the  church and baptisms, with  a few
marriages and deaths.
After the death of Mr. Smith there was a vacancy in
the ministry for more than four and one half years,
when from various causes they were unable to obtain a
pastor.   Rev. Huntingdon Porter preached for a time
in the year after Mr. Smith's decease.   On the 24:th  of
May, 1781, the parish voted a call to Mr. Samuel Shut-
tlesworth, of Dedham, in which the church concurred,
 - 121 - 
104               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
but after supplying the pulpit until Aug. 1, he declined
the  position.   On the  22d  of November the  parish
voted unanimously to  invite  Mr. Asa Packard,  of
Bridgewater,  to  become  their  minister,  but he also
declined.
Ever since the division of the town into two pre-
cincts, there had been trouble between them concerning
the parsonage property, which culminated in a suit, in
1785, by the  South Parish for claimed rights,  which
were denied by the North.  The issue of the contest
was in  favor of the latter.   During the summer and
fall of that year, liev. Mr. Judson supplied the pulpit;
but  on the  16th  of January of the  following  year
(1786), the parish made choice of Mr. Israel Evans to
fill  the vacancy in  the  pastorate.   This invitation he
accepted  under  date  of  2l:th  of March;  but some
^mfortunate reports reaching his ear before settlement,
he felt obliged to decline, which he did in a letter dated
26th of September.  Soon after this Mr. Jacob Norton
was hired to preach, and on the 12th of March, 1787, the
committee was instructed to engage him for a further
time.   His ministrations proved so  acceptable, that on
the  9th of April it  was voted to  give him a  call, at
a salary of ninety  pounds per year, his firewood and
two hundred pounds settlement, fifty pounds per year
for four years (the latter instead of parsonage, which
had been first  voted).   Mr. Norton accepted the call,
and was ordained 10th of October,  1787.  He was a
graduate of Harvard, of 1785 or 1786, a man of strong
mental  powers,  with thorough  intellectual  training,
and a keen controversialist.   He excelled as a classical
scholar,  and had a  high  reputation  as  a  Hebraist.
During his  ministry  he was frequently  engaged in
theological discussions, which he sustained with great
learning and ability.   He was, however, changeable in
his religious belief, particularly during the later years
 - 122 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             105
of his ministry, which was the cause of great trouble in
the church and parish, and eventually led to a dissolu-
tion of the pastoral relation, which took place 10th of
July, 1824, after a service of nearly thirty-seven years.
He was a man of irreproachable character, and highly
esteemed for his amiable qualities.
On the  23d of August, 1824,  a  hearty call  was
extended to Rev. Josiah Bent, Jr., of Milton, by the
parish to become its pastor, at a salary of six hundred
dollars  and his firewood.   This call  he accepted, and
he was ordained, Oct. 13, 1824, to the pastorate of the
First  Church of Weymouth, which position  he held
until Oct. 10, 1833.  His ministry was a very successful
one,  one  hundred  and twenty-nine persons  having
united with the church during the nine years.   While
Mr. Bent was the pastor of the church, the meeting-
house, having become old and out of repair, was taken
down in  1832, and a new one erected upon the same
spot,  which, with some important  changes, has been
occupied by the parish until the present time.   This is
the third meeting-house built upon this spot.   Mr. Bent
was a graduate of Harvard, of 1822, a man of deep piety,
in  excellent standing among his associates, and holding
a warm place in the affections of his people.
After the dismission of Mr. Bent, Mr. John C. Phil-
lips,  of Boston, was employed to  preach  during the
month of l^ovember,  1833,  which he  did with such
effect that a unanimous call  was given him by parish
and church, at a salary of seven hundred dollars per
year, which he promptly accej)ted, and was ordained on
the 18th of December, 1833.   He remained pastor until
Nov. 13, 1837, a ministry of a little over four years, the
shortest in the history of the church since the settlement
of Rev. Samuel IS^ewman, about two hundred years be-
fore.  Mr. Phillips was a graduate of Harvard, of 1826,
and of Andover Theological Seminary.  He also com-
 - 123 - 
106               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
pleted a full  course of legal  study with Hon. Samuel
Hubbard, Judge of the  Supreme Court of Massachu-
setts.   He was a fine  scholar,  a  sti'ong  thinker and
a  close  reasoner.   His rare  social  powers made him
a general favorite, and it  was with deep regret to his
many friends that circumstances compelled him to ask
his dismission.
The interval was yery short after  Mr. Phillips left
until the call to Rev. Joshua Emery, Jr.,  of Fitchburg,
Jan. 2,  1838, at a salary of eight hundred dollars per
annum.  He accepted the invitation, and was installed
on the 2oth of the same month.  This is the first instal-
lation unaccompanied by ordination in the history of the
church for two hundred years.   His pastorate extended
until April 1, 1873, a period of over thirty-five  years,
when he was dismissed at his own request, feeling with
the advance of years that the burden of the parish was
too great for his  strength.   His ministry was a long
and successful  one,  during which one  hundred and
eighty-five  were admitted to  the church.  He was a
forcible  and energetic  speaker,  especially  gifted  in
prayer, and the estimation in which he was held by his
people may be measured by the length of his pastorate.
He was also  a valuable citizen, being strongly inter-
ested in education, for many years the chairman of the
school committee, performing at times nearly the whole
duties of the board.  At the beginning of his service
the parish built a new parsonage house, that now used
for the purpose, upon the site  of the old house, some
parts of which had stood there for one hundred and
fifty years.   During many years the social meetings of
the church had been held in the hall of the schoolhouse,
opposite the  meeting-house, for want of a chapel or
vestrj'^,  a need that was greatly felt,  and which was
provided  for  in  ] 856 by the  erection of a neat and
commodious  chapel  by  the church,  and attached  to
 - 124 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             107
the  rear  of the  meeting-house,  with  which it  com-
municated.
On the 28th July, 1873, the parish concurred in  the
unanimous call  of the church to Rev. F. P. Chapin as
pastor, at a salary of fourteen hundred dollars, and the
use of the parsonage.  This call was accepted, and Mr.
Chapin was accordingly installed,  and remains in  the
pastoral office at the present time.   Animportant event
in the history of the parish took place in 1875, when it
fell heir to a legacy often thousand dollars, for the "sup-
port and maintaining of the present religious  doctrines
of the parish," by the will of Mr. Joseph Loud, lately
deceased, who for manyyears was an active member of
the church and parish, and who thus gave substantial
evidence of his good-will.
This ancient church has suffered greatly from circum-
stances beyond its control: first, in the establishment of
the Second Church, in 1723, its  hundredth birth-year,
whereby a large number of its  active  supporters were
withdrawn; and again, in 1811, upon the  formation of
the Union Church of Weymouth and Braintrce, a large
part of whose members came from this  church;  still
later, in 1822, its  membership was once more greatly
depleted by the withdrawal of many to form a Methodist
Church in East Weymouth; and last, in 1852, the most
serious loss of all, in the removal of fifty-one  members
to form the Pilgrim Church in  Old Spain.   Thus the
mother has been exhausting her resources and impover-
ishing herself in the establishment ofa family ofvigorous
and prosperous children; but it  has been at  a serious
cost to her, since the removal of so many members, and
the decline of business in the village near, have reduced
it from the one only church in the town to the smallest
of six of the same fellowship.   Yet she still keeps on her
way and bravely sustains the burden that is  thus cast
upon her, doing her work with diligence and fidelity.
 - 125 - 
108               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
CHAPTEE VI.
Congregational Churches (continued): Second Church, Union Church of
VVejmouth and Braintree,  Union Church of  South  Weymouth,
Church at East Weymoutli, Pilgrim Church—Methodist Episcopal:
Church at East Weymouth, Church at Lovell's Corner—Universalist:
First Church, Second Church, Third Church—Baptist: First Church
—Koman Catholic:  Parish of  St.  Francis Xavier, Parish of the
,      Immaculate Conception, Parish of the Sacred Heart, Parish of St.
Jerome—Protestant Episcopal: Trinity Parish.
The Second Coxgeegational Chukch and Par-
ish IN South Weymouth.'—The causes that led to
the separation of the town into two precincts,  and the
formation  of the  Second Church, have been ah'eady
alkided to.   The long distance  and poor roads,  with
other causes of dissatisfaction, gave rise to  the deter-
mination of the dwellers at the South to separate; while
the opposition, steady and persistent, on the part of the
old parish and church, served only to solidify the deter-
mination,  which resulted,  in  1723, in  an  act  of the
Legislature establishing the Second Precinct, and on
'      the 21st of June the parish met and organized.   On the
15th of July a call was given to Mr. James Bayley to
settle with them, at a salary of seventy-six pounds, and
a settlement of one hundred and thirty  pounds,   A
church, however, was not formed until the following
18th of September.  Ameeting-house had already been
erected,  and Mr.  Bayley had been preaching there
probably for a year or more.  He accepted the call, and
was ordained Sept. 26, 1723, as pastor over this people
)
1 The facts relative  to this church and society have been largely fur-
nished by Kev. George F. Stanton, the present pastor.
 - 126 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              109
and remained such until his  death, Aug. 22, 1766, a
period of forty-three years.   He was a native of Rox-
bury, a graduate of Harvard, of 1710, and served his
first  and only pastorate in  Weymouth.  During  his
extended ministry there were added to the church in all
two hundred and seven persons.   He seems to have
been much beloved by his  people,  and was held in
estimation by the neighboring parishes.
On the 15th ofJanuary, 1767, after the death of Mr.
Bayley, Mr. Ephraim Briggs received a call  from the
parish, in concurrence with the church, to become their
minister, but with so strong opposition that he declined.
Through that season the pulpit was supplied by five dif-
ferent ministers, each preaching several Sabbaths in suc-
cession ;    and in March, 1768, a call was given to a Mr.
Fuller, which was declined;  after which Mr. Simeon
Williams, of Raynham,preached for several months, and
then received a call, which he accepted, andwas ordained
Oct. 2(3, 1768.   Here he remained until May 31,  18i9,
the date of his death.   He was born in Easton, and was
a graduate ofNewJersey College, of1765.  Hisministry
extended over a period ofmore than fifty-one years, the
longest ever recorded in the town.  In 1784 and 1785,
the old meeting-house was torn down, and a new one
erected.
Upon the repeated request ofMr. Williams for ajunior
pastor, the church, on Dec. 14, 1818, called Mr. William
Tyler to  that position, and on the  24th of February
following  he  was ordained;  but  the  death  of Mr.
Williams, so soon after, left him sole pastor.   Mr. Tyler
remained as  pastor of this people until  Oct.  17, 1831,
when he was dismissed, at his own request, after a minis-
try of nearly thirteen years.   For more than a year the
church was without a pastor; and on N^ov. 8, 1832, a call
was extended to Rev. Charles I. Warren, who accepted
the invitation, and was installed Jan 1, 1833; but, after a
 - 127 - 
110               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
brief pastorate of little more than a year and a half, he
was dismissed Aug. 13, 1834, at his own urgent request,
and much to the regret of his people.  It was four years
after this before  the  office  was again filled,  and this
period was one of great trouble that nearly proved fatal
to the church.  The difficulty was so  serious  that  on
account of religious differences the church seceded from
the parish, worshipping in a hall, and a new society, the
Edwards Society, was organized.  Thebreach, however,
was healed in 1837, and the church and parish united in
the old meeting-house, although an unsuccessful attempt
had been made to form another church.  During the
separation, a call  had been extended to  Rev. Joshua
Emery, Jr.,  which he declined.   In 1836, the  society
gave Rev. Mr. Biscoe a call,  which he also  declined.
In August, 1838, after the reunion of the church and
society.  Rev. Wales Lewis received a call,  which he
accepted, and was installed on the 12th of September.
During his ministry there was serious trouble, which
increased to such a degree as in the end to cause his dis-
mission, which took place in June, 1847, after a pastor-
ate of about nine years.   During the troubles  in  the
pastorate of Mr. Lewis, in 1842, and as  a consequence
of them, a strong party drew off and formed the Union
Church and Society, which became a permanent organi-
zation.
After  the  dismission  of Mr. Lewis,  Rev.  Joshua
Leavett preached for a time, and an effort was made to
give him a  call, but without success.   There was felt
very great discouragement as to their future prospects,
which gave way to a feeling of hope when Rev. James
P. Terry accepted their call, and was installed July 6,
1848.  Matters at once began to assume a more cheer-
ing aspect, so much so that in the year of his settlement
the present parsonage house was built for the benefit of
the parish;  and about  five  years  later,  in  1853,  the
 - 128 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.              Ill
present meeting-house was erected, at a cost of about
fifteen  tliousand dollars,  and the  cliurch  and society
stood once more upon firm ground.  In February, 186::^,
Mr. Terry's health gave way, and he was obliged to
suspend his  ministrations.   He was granted leave of
absence for six months, during which time the people
worshipped with the Union Church, under Rev. S. H.
Hayes.  In March of the following year, 1869, finding
that his health did not improve, Mr. Terry felt  obliged
to ask to be relieved from his pastoral relation, and his
request was reluctantly granted.
About the same time a plan for a union of the two
societies and churches was arranged, and an agreement
made to adopt it, but it  failed  to be carried into  exe-
cution.   Rev. Dr. Labaree preached for about a year and
a half, when the present pastor, Hev. GeorgeF. Stanton,
began his work here.   He received a call to settle with
this people, which he accepted, and was installed  27th
October, 1870; and it was in the third year of his minis-
try  that  the  church and society  celebrated their one
hundred and fiftieth anniversary, with appropriate ser-
vices, amid much rejoicing.   The church is  yet strong
and vigorous, notwithstanding the years it has survived
and the struggles it  has encountered, and bids fair  to
live far into the future.
The Union Religious Society op Weymouthand
Bkaintkee.^ —This society and the church connected
with it, although its meeting-house is located a few rods
over the line in Braintree, is  comprised so largely of
Weymouth people that it fairly deserves a place in this
record.   Its members were drawn mainly from the first
churches of Weymouth and Braintree, who, on account
'   The sketch of  the Union Church of Weymouth and Braintree is
compiled mainly from the records of the church and society.
 - 129 - 
112               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
of  the  considerable distance of  those  two meeting-
houses and the increasing importance of the vilhige of
Weymouth Landing, coming from  a  rapid  influx  of
population and the  commencement of business enter-
prises,  desired  better  accommodations  for  religious
services.   The society was formed March 13, 1810, and
the Hoilis  Street  Church, Boston, then  about to  be
taken down, was purchased, its  material removed by
vessel to its pi-esent location in East Braintree, where it
was rebuilt, and with many alterations, remains still  as
the house of worship of the people.   The society was
incorporated 21st February, 1811, and a church organ-
ized Aug. 14 of the same year.   A call  was at once
given to Mr. John Frost, who declined it.    In the fol-
lowing  November, Mr. Daniel A. Clark  was invited
to a settlement.   He accepted the invitation, and was
ordained on the following 31st of December.  After a
short pastorate  (less  than two years),  owing to  the
disaffection of a few members ofthe church and congre-
gation, and a difficulty in raising his salary, Mr. Clark
resigned, and was dismissed 20th October, 1813.  After
a year or more of financial distress, during which the
pulpit was supplied from Sabbath to Sabbath, in Janu-
ary, 1815, Mr.Jonas Perkins, of Bridgewater, was hired
for three months, and before that time had expired he
was given  a  call,  which was accepted, and he  was
ordained  June 14 of that  year.    After  a  long and
prosperous ministry of forty-six years,  at the age of
seventy, in accordance with long-expressed plans, he
resigned his pastorate, and the connection was severed,
15th October, 1860.  He remained in the village, taking
an active interest in the affairs  of his old church, until
his dea^h, which occurred June 26, 1874.   After the
resignation of Mr. Perkins, a call was extended to Rev.
E. Porter Dyer, of Hingham, Sept. 28, 1860, which he
declined.  In the following December, Rev. Lysander
 - 130 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              113
Dickerman, of Gloucester,  was invited to the vacant
pulpit,  which invitation  he  accepted, and he was in-
stalled Jan. 17, 1861.  After a very stormy pastorate of
about six and a half years, during a part of which a
bitter quarrel existed between the pastor and about half
of the congregation, which in the end seriously threat-
ened the very existence of the church and society, his
official connection with them closed in July, 1867.  The
results of this quarrel were very disastrous, so that they
had no pastor for about two years, when matters began
to assume a better aspect, and April 1, 1868, Rev. A.
A. Elsworth, ofMilford, was hired to supply the pulpit,
which he did very acceptably for  about three years..
After this time, alfairs having been somewhat accommo-
dated and extensive alterations made in the meeting-
house, a hearty call was extended to Rev. Lucien H.
Frary, ofMiddleton.  This call was accepted, and Mr.
Frary was installed April 13, 1875.  He is  now in the
tenth year of his ministry, with a united people and a
strong and pros]3erous  society, that has, through his
exertions, just relieved itself from a heavy debt incurred
in the remodelling of the house, and which had seriously
crippled it in its work.
IJNioisr  Chctech  and Soo[ett of  South Wey-
mouth.' —As before  stated, the organization  of this
church and society grew out  of the  trouble  in  the
Second  Parish,  from  which  the  members  of  the
new organization withdrew.  The society was formed
June 20,  184:2, and the church Nov. 1  of the same
year.   The meetings were first  held in Rogers' Hall,
until  a  meeting-house  could  be  erected,  which was
efi'ected the same year.   On the 3d of July, 1843, a call
'The materials for  this  sketch were furnished by O. B. Bates, Esq.
from the records of the church and society.
8
 - 131 - 
114              SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
was  extended  to  Rev.  Geoi'ge  Denham, which he
accepted,  and he was installed  Nov. 1.    This  con-
nection was held until  May, 1847, when he was dis-
missed.  On the  following  17th  of ISTovember, Rev.
Willard M. Harding, having accepted a call, was in-
stalled,  and continued  his  ministry until  1858, when
he resigned, and was dismissed April 8 by a council
which installed as his successor Rev. S. H. Hayes, who
retained his  position as pastor over that people until
!Nov. 17, 1870, when he asked and received his dismis-
sion.   From February, 1871, to September, the pulpit
was supplied by Rev. Henry E. Cooley.  During the
years 1870 and 1871 a new meeting-house was erected
at a cost of forty thousand dollars, and a parsonage at
a cost of four thousand dollars.   A call was extended
to Rev. James McLean, which he accepted, and was
installed  Feb. 27,  1872.  He was dismissed May 29,
1876.  Rev. George    Marden followed him as act-
ing  pastor,  from February,  1877,  to  August, 1881.
On the 1st of September of the latter year, a call was
extended to  Rev. William H. Bolster, which he ac-
cepted, and was installed April 12, 1882.  He is  the
present pastor.
The Coj^gregational Church of East "Wet-
mouth.' —This church was formed from a division in
the Methodist Episcopal Church, a majority of the soci-
ety remaining and forming a new church, called the
First  Evangelical  Methodist  Church,  the  minority
retaining  the  old  organization  and building  a  new
house of worship.   The church was formed March 4,
3843, with ten members.  In 18G0, Feb. 25, it  changed
from the  Methodist to  the Congregational form, and
'  The data from which this sketcli is compiled were gathered from the
records by Charles B. Cusliing, Esq.
 - 132 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             115
joined the I«[orfolk  Conference of that denomination.
It is  now, numerically, the  strongest church of that
order in the town.  It has been obliged to enlarge its
meeting-house, to accommodate the increased call for
sittings.   Its congregation is an enterprising and pros-
perous one, and its  list  of pastors, notwithstanding its
comparatively recent date, is altogether too long to be
here enumerated.  It has also a large Sabbath school
connected with it.    When the old society divided, the
meeting-house was sold and torn down, and a new one
erected upon the same spot, which remains to-day, with
the enlargement above mentioned.
The PiLGKiM Church and Socfety  of I^oeth
Weymouth.' —The growing necessities of the pros-
perous village of Old Spain were the cause of the move-
ment that resulted in these organizations.   The society
was formed May 14, 1851, and a meeting-house erected
the same year.   The church was organized March 11,
1852.  In May of the same year. Rev. Calvin  Terry
was called to be the first pastor.   He accepted the call,
and was installed May 18, 1852.  This connection was
a very unfortunate one, on account of long-continued
and great dissensions with the pastor, who, after much
trouble  and difficulty,  was dismissed Dec. 25,  1856.
On Sept. 14, 1857, Eev. Charles E. Eeed, of Taunton,
was invited  to  the  pastorate,  but declined.   In the
spring of 1858, Rev. Samuel L. Rockwood accepted
a call, and was installed March 12.   His ministry con-
tinued  until July 31,  1871,  when he was dismissed,
at his own request, on account of ill  health.   He was
succeeded by Rev. Louis B. Yoorhees, who was or-
dained Dec. 6, same year, and continued his ministry
'These materials were furnished by Herbert A. Newton, Esq., from
the official files.
 - 133 - 
116               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
until his resignation was accepted, July 1,  1876.  On
the 23d of November following, Rev. George Dodson,
having accepted  a  call,  was installed,  and remained
pastor until  Dec. 23, 1879, when ill  health compelled
him to resign the active duties of his office.   Rev. A.
H. Tyler commenced his services as acting pastor, May
17, 1880, and resigned in the spring  of 1884.  In 1881
a parsonage was built.
The Methodist  Episcopal  Church of  East
Weymouth.'—The first   movement  looking  to  the
formation of a Methodist Church in East Weymouth
was made in  1822.  The trouble  in  the  old  North
Church,  consequent upon  the  changes  in  religious
belief of Mr. Norton, the  inconvenient distance from
meeting, and the fact that a large portion of the people
were gradually becoming restive under the severe Cal-
vinistic creed then held by the two churches in town,
induced a desire for more freedom in religious thought
and belief.   The first class was organized in  1823, and
the new society erected its first meeting-house in 1825.
The rapid growth ofthe parish necessitated an enlarge-
ment of this building, which was made in 1828.  During
the first ten years ofits existence, not far from one hun-
dred members were received from the North Parish.
About this time trouble began to show itself, and the
desire to be removed from the higher authority of the
Methodist  Episcopal  government and return  to  the
ancient freedom of the Congregational Church, caused
a majority of the people to separate from the confer-
ence, and contiiuie their organization as a Protestant
Methodist Church.  The minority, who preferred their
original form, withdrew,  and formed  a  new society,
retaining the old name.  They built their first meeting-
'  Gathered from the records by John W. Bates, Esq.
 - 134 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             117
house in 1844, and such was the increase, that  they
were obhged to  enlarge  the building in  1850.  This
house was destroyed by fire  13th December, 1851, and
with its contents was a total loss.   This was a heavy
blow, from which, however, it  soon rallied, and another
house  was erected  in  the  following  year, dedicated
Oct. 12.   This becoming too contracted for the grow-
ing necessities  of the  society, was enlarged in  1864.
This building was also  burned 23d February,  1870.
Another and the present house of worship was erected
on Broad Street the same year, and dedicated Dec, 23.
It has free sittings.   The church belongs to the 'New
England Southern Conference.  The society  has also
a fine parsonage, built in 1867.   The present member-
ship  of the church is  about two  hundred and sixty
.
It has been from its  organization an energetic church,
and the centre of good influences.   It has also a large
and flourishing Sabbath school.
-The Methodist Episcopal Church at Lovell's
Corner.^—The initial steps towards the formation of
this  church were taken in  the  autumn of 1866, in
recognition of a long-felt need of that growing and
prosperous village, when Rev. D. W. Waldron, pastor
of  the  Congregational  Church at East "VYeymouth,
began there on  Sabbath afternoons a preaching  ser-
vice  at five  o'clock.   This was continued as long as
he remained pastor ofthe East Weymouth Church, and
for about a year after.   During the  latter  time, the
neighboring ministers  preached there in turn.   After
this a regular pulpit supply was obtained, until a Con-
gregational Church was formed, on the last Thursday
in October, 1872.  Rev. Joseph C. Halliday, the first
pastor, commenced his work there on the first  Sabbath
1 Materials furnished by Bradford Hawes, Esq.
 - 135 - 
118               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
of the following December, and held the position until
July,  1877, nearly five  years.   From that time until
November of the same year there was no regular min-
ister.   In that month Kev. Henry P. Haylctt, a student
of Boston University (Methodist Episcopal), was en-
gaged.  During his  pastorate the church changed its
denominational  connection and united with the New
Bedford  Methodist  Episcopal  Conference  in  April,
1879, and in April, 1882, it was transferred to the New
England Southern Conference of the same denomina-
tion,  where it   still  remains.  Mr. Haylett  was suc-
ceeded May 1,  1880, by Rev. Charles H. Farnsworth,
who in turn gave place, in the following year, to Rev.
E. G. Babcock, the present pastor.   A Sabbath school
was gathered by the efforts of Rev. Mr.Waldron, in the
spring of 1867, which has continued an active existence
in connection with the work of the church ever since.
This church has no meeting-house, but has held its ser-
vices in a hall.
The Fiest Univeesalist Socih:ty oe Weymouth.^
—This society was organized at Weymouth Landing,
July 21, 1836, in consequence of a desire on the part of
many of the people of that village, then the largest in
the town, for a wider privilege in the interpretation of
the Bible than the belief of the Union Church would
permit.  Rev. Matthew Hale Smith was hired to preach
once a fortnight in  Wales' Hall.  A movement was
soon made towards the building of a meeting-house
with such success that a house was finished at a cost of
six thousand four hundred dollars, including land, bell
and furniture, and was dedicated Sept. 13, 1839.  Mr.
Calvin Gardner preached on the next and three follow-
ing  Sabbaths.  Rev. John S.  Barry was the  jDastor
'Pacts supplied by J. W. Armiugton, Esq.
 - 136 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.              119
from I^ovember, 1839, to  April, 1841.  He was suc-
ceeded at once by Rev. John M. Spear, who remained
until April, 1845, when he closed his service, and was
followed  by Rev. Mr. ColRn mitil ISTovember of the
same year, when Rev. Mr. Dennis supplied the pulpit.
In  1846, Rev. Mr. Barry returned, and remained as
minister until  Jan. 1,  1850.   He was then succeeded
by Rev. Mr. Hemphill and others, for about two years,
when Rev. D. P. Livermore was hired, and remained
about two years.   After him  Rev.  Mr.  Davenport
preached for a year, whose successor was Rev. Charles
Mellen, who remained from April, 1855, to April, 1860,
when the pulpit was supplied for a year and a half by
Rev. D. T. Goddard.  Following him there was no reg-
ular minister until April, 1864, when Rev. Miss Olympia
Brown was engaged, and held the position until Sep-
tember, 1869.  After an interval  of two years. Rev.
Benjamin H. Davis became pastor, and continued in
that position from October, 1871, to April, 1873, —a
year and a half.   Rev. L. S. Crosley was the next pas-
tor, beginning his service N^ovember, 1876, and closing
March, 1878.  After him came Rev. Anson Titus, Jr.,
who began his work ISTovember, 1878, and ended April,
1883, having charge also for the greater part of the
time, first of the church in Old Spain, and then of that
in South Weymouth.  This society still worships in its
original meeting-house, on Washington Street, and its
present pastor, recently engaged, is  Rev. B. F. Eaton,
who has the charge also of the West Scituate Society.
The Second Universalist  Society  of  South
Weymouth.^ —The first  services in the Universalist
faith in South Weymouth were held in Columbian Hall,
in 1835, during the trouble in  the  Second Congrega-
1  Material furnished by H. H. Joy, Esq.
 - 137 - 
120               SKIOTGII OF WEYMOUTH.
tional Church, when Rev. Sylvanus Cobb preached for
a time.   Therewas then no organization, the movement
meeting with bitter opposition, and it  was was not until
1848  that an association  was formed, known as  the
" Washington Corporation,"  out  of which grew the
Second UniversaUst Society.   Rev. John Parker, the
first regularly settled pastor, was installed in 184i), and
remained in  that  service for  six  years.   During his
pastorate a chapel was erected, in 1850.
The next pastor, Rev. Elmer E. Hewitt, was installed
on Sunday evening, July 8, 1855, and retained his posi-
tion  for  more than fourteen years, when he was suc-
ceeded  by Rev. Jacob Baker, who was installed  in
18G9.  His term of service extended over a period of
nine years, to 1878, since which time there have been
several pastors, —Revs. E. A. Perry, Anson Titus, B.
E. Bowles, the present pastor, and others.
The ThirdUkiveesalist Societyof IN'orth "Wet-
mouth.' —This society was organized !N^ov. 19, 1853,
and a Sabbath school gathered on the succeeding Fast
Day.   The first  minister was Rev. R. L. Killam, of
Scituate, who commenced April 1, 1855, preaching on
alternate  Sabbaths  in  Harmonial Hall.   His term of
service  continued  for three  years.   During the  next
year only evening  services were held,  conducted by
different clergymen, after which Rev. E. H. Hawes, of
Stoughton, supplied the pulpit on alternate  Sabbaths
for one year, beginning May 1, 1859, and Rev. R. L.
Killam for the summer following.
During the ten succeeding years the services were
conducted by clergymen of Weymouth and the neigh-
boring towns.  Rev. G. W. Skinner, of Qnincy, was
the next preacher his work dating from April 1, 1871,
rurnished by Thomas F. Cleverly, Esq,
 - 138 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             121
and coiitimiing  one year,  when he was followed  by
Rev. G. W. Whitney, of Qumcy, who was pastor from
April 1, 1872, to July 1, 1878.  During his ministry a
chapel was erected, which was dedicated Jan. 16, 1873,
and a church of twenty-two members was formed June
28, 1874.  Mr. Whitney was succeeded by Rev. Anson
Titus, Jr., of Weymouth Landing, who preached from
September, 1878, to July 1, 1880, when he resigned his
position.   Rev. E. A. Perry was pastor from the latter
date to April 1, 1882;   the present pastor. Rev. R. T.
Sawyer, of Quincy, commencing his labors on Sept. 3
of the same year.
The First Baptist Church and Society in Wey-
mouth.^ —The first movement towards a union of the
members of the Baptist denomination and those favor-
ing its  belief,  for  some kind of associated  effort  on
behalf of their  special  views, in  the village of Wey-
mouth Landing, was made in the years 1851-2, in the
establishment of a regular weekly prayer-meeting, and,
also, of a sewing circle, the proceeds of whose labors
were devoted  to  the  renting of Union Hall,  where
preaching services were held as often as circumstances
would permit, by the Baptist ministers of the neighbor-
ing towns.  After a little  more than a year arrange-
ments were made with Messrs. Leander P. Gurney and
'Noah Fullerton, of the South Abington Church, for
regular preaching on the Sabbath; and, on the 13th of
March, of the same year, a Sabbath school was com-
menced.  This state of things soon produced the desire
for a church, which was formed on Feb. 7, 1854; but it
was not until June 21, 1855, that the society was organ-
ized and the congregation became fully equipped for its
'  Compiled mainly from the records of the society and the sermon of
Eev. Gideon Cole, pastor, preached Feb. 4, 1866, at the opening of the
new house of worship.
 - 139 - 
122               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
work.  Rev. II. C. Coombs, of Middlcborough, supplied
the pulpit for a few weeks, when it was placed under
the care of Rev. Henry Fitz, missionary of the  State
Convention, and its  preachers were mainly from the
Newton Theological Seminary.  The first  pastor was
Rev. Andrew Dunn, of Bridgewater, who commenced
his labors April 1, 1855;   and a chapel was erected, which
was dedicated  on July 12.   Mr. Dunn remained as
pastor of the church until Jan. 31, 1858, and was suc-
ceeded on May 1  by Rev. Levi A. Abbott, of Milford,
who continued with the people for five years, until the
end of May, 1863.  On Nov. 1, 1863, Rev. Gideon Cole,
of Sheldonville, having accepted a call, commenced his
work in this place.  During his pastorate a newmeeting-
house was built  on Washington and Broad Streets,
nearly opposite the chapel, and dedicated Jan. 31, 1866.
Mr. Cole was succeeded in the spring of 1871 by Rev.
C. H. Rowe, who was followed in the autumn of 1874
by Rev. W. C. Wright.  He remained in the pastorate
about four years, when he was dismissed, and a call
extended to Rev. P. A. JSTordell was accepted, whobegan
work in  the spring of 1878, which he continued until
1882,  when he resigned, and was succeeded by Rev.
Seth J. Axtell, the present pastor.
RoMAir Catholic.^ —The Parish  of  St.  Francis
Xavier was the first  parish of this  denomination, and
embraced territorially the whole town.  The first priests
of the parish were Rev. Fathers Roddan and Lynch,
who came to  the town in  1851, and the first services
were held in East Weymouth that same year, in private
houses.  After a few months the place of worship was
changed, and services  were held in  Tirrell's  Hall,  at
Weymouth Landing.  In 1854, Rev. 'Father Roach took
'  The facts relative to the Roman Catholic Church in Weymouth were
gathered from various sources aud carefully verified.
 - 140 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             123
charge of the parish, but it was not until 1859 that the
first church was erected, which was located upon Middle
Street, not far below the Town Hall.   FatherRoach was
succeeded, in 18G6, by Kev. Father Hennigan, who re-
mained until 1869, and in the fall of that year the church
was burned.  Rev. Father Smyth followed Father Hen-
nigan in 1^69, and soon after, the church on Pleasant
Street was erected, in 1870.  In 1873, the Parish of the
Sacred Heart was constituted at the Landing, the tavern
property purchased, and services held in the hall  of the
building.   In 1876,  a  church of brick and stone was
begun, which, when completed, will  be  the  costliest
church edifice in the vicinity.   The basement was soon
finished  and occupied,  and the  audience-room of the
church itself has been in use for a year or two.
The Parish of the Immaculate Conception, at  East
Weymouth, was formed, and a church built  in  1879,
dedicated  ISTov.  23.   In  1881,  a  parish  was  consti-
tuted in Old Spain, called the Parish of Saint Jerome,
and a church erected.   Rev. Father Smyth had charge
of all these parishes (with one or more assistants) until
1882, when Rev. Father Millerick was placed over the
parishes  of  the  Immaculate  Conception  and  Saint
Jerome, Father Smyth retaining the  other two until
1883, when he was succeeded by Rev. Father Murphy,
the present incumbent.
Episcopaliais"—The Trinity Church at "Wey-
mouth Landing.' —This parish was organized I^ov.
11, 1867, at the time and in consequence of the trouble
in the Union Congregational Church, in connection Avith
the Rev. L. Dickerman.  Services  had been held in
Williams' Hall, as early as July 7 of that year.   On
Sept.  10,  the  homestead  of  the  late  Atherton W.
^ Furnished by Samuel W. Keed, Esq.
 - 141 - 
124               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Tilden, on Front Street, was purchased, and the house
reconstructed into a church.  These changes were com-
pleted,  and the first  service held there Dec. 8, 1867,
but the church was not consecrated until May 21, 1874.
From March 4 to July 1 of that year, 1867, Rev. S.
E. Slack, of South Boston, was the officiating clergy-
man, when Rev. Mr. Burroughs was called to the rector-
ship, which he resigned Oct. 1, 1868, and was succeeded
in December by Rev. T. W. Street, who in turn gave
way to Rev. F. O. Barstow, December, 1869.  He was
followed in  June, 1870, by Rev. W. F. Lhoyd, who
resigned in 1873, and was succeeded by Rev. William
C. Winslow, who remained but one year.   The next
rector was Rev. Samuel R. Slack, in June, 1874, who
retained that position until April 12, 1877, when he re-
signed, and was followed by Rev. John A. Jerome, who
occupied the position until March, 1883.  InN^ovember,
of this year. Rev. Charles L. Wells became officiating
clergyman, who has since resigned.
 - 142 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.             125
CHAPTER VII.
Educational Institutions —Public  Schools —Weymouth and Braintree
Academy—Newspapers —Weymouth  Historical  Society —Social
Libraries —Mutual Library Associations —Tufts Library.
Public Schools.^ —I^ext in importance to the ec-
clesiastical interests come those of education, of which
the public schools form the prominent feature, and for
these the town has always taken special care.   In the
early days of its  history the records  are  exceedingly
brief, and only slight and incidental mention is made of
manythings upon which now there is great need of fuller
information.   The first notice of matters connected with
schools occurs on March 10, 1651, when the town voted
to pay Capt. Perkins ten pounds for six months' school-
ing.   Capt. William Perkins was a prominent man in
town in thosedays, being "townsman," and probably
held other important offices,   in subsequent history it
was found that it was to men of this character that the
town intrusted the education of its children.
It is a singular fact, and one which shows that the
interest of the town in education was not confined to
its  own borders, that the second  mention should be
that of a subscription of ten pounds sixteen shillings
and sixpence  by Weymouth to  Cambridge College,
in 1652.   After Capt. Perkins, the next schoolmaster
named is  William Chard, who was also  town clerk,
'  The portion of this sketch relating to the public schools of Weymouth
has been carefully compiled from the town, parish and other records,
and is  believed to contain as full an abstract as could be desired for a
work of this character.
 - 143 - 
126               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
and attended to the drawing up of such legal instru-
ments as the necessities of the people demanded.  He
is  first  mentioned in  that  capacity  April  10,  1G67,
when the town voted him three  pounds and ten shil-
lings, the rent of the flats, in addition to his other pay.
On the 25th of August, thirty shillings was also added.
On Nov. 29, 16(59, he was engaged at ten pounds per
year, probably employed only a  portion of the time.
He was also sexton, and the pay of both offices  was
sometimes included in one vote.   On Sept. 18, 1678,
his pay had advanced to twenty-four pounds, and the
town was to  furnish  a  school-room.   The selectmen
with the  elders  were also " to  rate each pay-scholar
for his  benefit."   The next year a house and orchard
were rented for him at forty-five shillings, and in 1680,
the  house of  James Stewart was bought for  forty
pounds for the use of the schoolmaster; this was to be
paid for  by subscription, which failed, and a tax was
laid for it.    In the following year, 1681, a school-house
was built on a part of the land bought of Capt. John
Holbrook,  the  other  part  of  which was  afterwards
occupied by the new meeting-house, erected  in  1G82.
The house with the furnishing cost thirty-six  pounds.
In 1684, Mr. Chard's salary was advanced to thirty-
three pounds and fourteen shillings.   His duties  were
" to keep a free-school and teach all  children and ser-
vants sent him to read, write, and cast accounts."
On 'Nov. 28, 1687, for some reason the town voted
" not to  continue Mr. Chard in  the work of a public
schoolmaster at the  public charge, but he is at liberty
to use the dwelling and school-house until next March
meeting, for which he is to ring the bell and sweep the
meeting-house."  Probably this was for want of funds,
as he was in office during the year 1689, and continued
a town schoolmaster until 1696, when he removed to
Abington.  Mr. John Copp was appointed to succeed
 - 144 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             127
him, at thirty pounds per year, and he was also chosen
town clerk the same year.   Mr. Copp does not appear
to have remained in his position quite two years.   At
the March meeting, 1697, the town voted that " parents
shall pay three shillings for  each child  sent to  school
between the ages of eight and fourteen years."   This
was to pay in  part the schoolmaster's  salary, the re-
mainder to be made up by a tax upon all  who lived
within two miles of the school-house.  By this time the
increase of scholars was so large that the town found it
necessary to employ more teachers, and Joseph Dyer
was employed to teach in the school-house, with John
King as assistant, and Edward Bate was to  teach in
his  own house.   To follow  the  jDrecedent, now well
established,  Edward  Bate  was elected  town clerk.
The pay of schoolmaster  was to  be not over thirty
pounds, one third of which was to be paid by those
who sent their children to school, and the remainder by
tax.   The next year the whole was raised by tax, and
John Torrey was employed, probably in  the place of
John King, as Edward Bate still  retained his  position
the following year, 1699, and later  Torrey appears as
Bate's assistant.
During the summer of 1700, five  women were en-
gaged to  teach school for  six  months, at  twenty-five
shillings each, besides  the  usual  rate  paid by those
who sent  children.   On the 21st of October of that
year  Samuel Hunt, son of Col. Hunt, was hired  as
schoolmaster at fifteen pounds ten shillings in  money
for six months, or twenty-three pounds, " as the rates
run."   In January, 1705,  Ebenezer White,  of Dor-
chester, was appointed schoolmaster for half a year at
fifteen pounds; and on March 3, 1707, Thomas Thorn-
ton was engaged at twenty-five pounds, of fifteen pen-
nyweights each (silver).   To him, in 1709, succeeded
John Torrey, at fifty  shillings  per month.   In 1717,
 - 145 - 
128               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
school was kept in each school-house four months, and
it  seemed that now there was a school-house in the
south part of the town.  John Gait was teacher for a
part of this year.   In September, 1719, Ebenezer Rolie
was hired for a year at forty-two pounds ten shilhngs,
and Mr. Calder in 1723, at the same price.   And this
year, 1723, a new school-house was built at a cost of
forty-two pounds seven shillings eleven pence, between
Joseph Lovell's and John Shaw's.  Mr. Calder taught
two months  here,  and two  mouths  in  the  North
school-house.   In  1729 it  was voted that the  South
Precinct should have a school one third of the year,
and be at the charge of having a  school-house, and
the  N'oi'th,  two thirds  of the  year.   In May,  17->0,
Joseph  Torrey was hired  as  schoolmaster  at  fifty
pounds.
After the division of the town into two precincts, a
large  part of the school business  was transacted  at
the precinct meeting, the  town appropriating  money
and dividing it between them according to the amount
paid  by each.   The appropriations  commencing  in
1733,  at  seventy-five  pounds,  had risen,  in  1800, to
five hundred dollars.   A new school-house was built
by the ISTorth Precinct in 1730, where the old one stood,
near  the  meeting-house,  and  Ezra Whitmarsh was
the  schoolmaster.  He was a  graduate  of Harvard,
also town clerk and selectman, one of the fathers  of
the town.  He continued his  position  as schoolmaster
until  1760, teaching  sometimes in  one precinct and
sometimes in the other, according to the various votes
of the town.  During this time the precincts maintained
their separate woman's schools.   In 1760 the  name of
David Wyre appears upon the record as  schoolmaster,
and in 1769 and 1770, Mr. Lemuel Gushing taught for
about a year.   Mr. James Blake, A. B., also taught a
few months about  this  time.   The necessities of the
 - 146 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             129
times during the Revolutionary War rendered the rais-
ing of money very difficult,  and probably the  school
interest, among others, suffered in consequence.  There
is no other teacher mentioned by name until Dec. 11,
1780, when Samuel Reed was engaged to teach in the
]^orth Precinct, " at his offer," six shillings per week in
money, " or its equivalent in necessaries at prices before
the war."
Jan. 24, 1785, iN'athaniel Bayley, Esq., was appointed
to answer to the  General Court on behalf of the town
for neglecting to keep a grammar school;  thus it  ap-
pears that the town had become a delinquent in this
matter, but the lesson was a good one, and did  not
need to be repeated.
After the close of the war, prosperity began to dawn
upon the town; the schools soon felt  the impetus, and
new houses were built  and new schools  established
in various parts.   Samuel Reed and James Humphrey
(.M) were employed at two pounds per week, and the
latter to have three shillings per week extra, "he hav-
ing been at the expense of fitting himself for a gram-
mar-school teacher."  Both of these were men of mark
in town, as  well as  schoolmasters, having been town
clerks, selectmen, and also village notaries.   Both held
long terms of service as school-teachers, with excellent
reputation.
In 1796, the school system, which had been sufficient
for the needs of the town in its  earlier days, was found
to be greatly wanting, and a committee was chosen to
take the whole subject into consideration and report a
new plan.   This was done, and in 1799 the town was
divided into  eight school districts,  substantially as  it
remained  for  seventy  years.   Each district  was to
furnish its  school-house  and teacher, paying its  ex-
penses from its  proportion of the school money raised
by the town.  The business was to be in the charge of
9
 - 147 - 
130               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
a prudential committee-man selected by the district, but
chosen by the town.  The school money was divided,
sometimes according to the number of families, some-
times according to the number of scholars, and some-
times according to  the amount of tax paid, but more
generally, a part equally, and a part according to the
number of scholars.
In 1810, the employment of " Latin and Greek " mas-
ters  was authorized, and also  "English masters who
shall teach equivalent to twelve months in the year."
In 1814 each district was ordered to report in  detail to
the town.  In 1816, the " alewive money " was appro-
priated for school purposes.  In 1821, a census reported
four hundred and thirty-four families and eight hundred
and ninety-five scholars.  In 1827 the town chose a com-
mittee of seven under a new State law, to have the over-
sight of the schools, or the general charge and superin-
tendency of them.  This was called the High Committee.
They examined and approved the teachers, and kept a
close watch upon the schools to see that they were prop-
erly taught.
This system was retained until the abolition of the
district  system, in  1869, when this committee became
the  school  committee,  combining  its  former powers
with those of the prudential  committee.   The High
Committee reported to the town at its  annual March
meeting, and in  1839 these  reports  began their pub-
lication.   In 1842,  a second enumeration of the chil-
dren of school age showed ten hundred and ninety-
nine, an increase of two hundred and four in twenty-
one years.   In 1845, the Fourth District was divided,
and the  I^inth set off  from it.    In 1847, the  Tenth
District  was set  off  from the  Second,  and  several
years later the Eleventh was taken from the Eighth.
"Various minor changes were made in process of time,
but this arrangement was that substantially kept until
1869.
 - 148 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             131
Attempts were made at varions times looldng to the
establishment of a high school, but without  success,
until about 1852, when the  Town Hall was built,  in
which a room was fitted  up for that purpose, but it
was not until the next year that the town directed the
school committee to go forward, appropriating one thou-
sand dollars for the purpose.  For several years it was
a matter of some doubt whether or not the school would
succeed on account of the exceeding inconvenience of
its  location,  being far  away from nearly  all  of the
scholars.   Experiments were made, trying one school
at the town house for a time, and then changing to two
schools, one at the I^orth and one at the South; and
it was not until 1865 that the present arrangement was
permanently adopted, that of having one school in each
of the two sections.
In 1859 the town voted to abolish the district system,
and appointed a committee to take the necessary meas-
ures to carry the vote into effect, but the following year
a return to the old system was made.  Again, in 1863,
the  same thing was voted, and in the next year re-
scinded.   Thus the  matter  remained  in  uncertainty
until 1869, when the old arrangement was set aside and
the  present town system finally  adopted.  The same
indefinite attitude was taken by the town with respect
to  the employment of a school superintendent.  The
first one was hired, in 1863, and from that time to the
present, although a superintendent has been employed
for the greater portion of the time, so many changes
have been made and so uncertain the action that might
be taken, that little  benefit has been derived from the
services of that oflicer.
The treatment of the schools by the town seems at
last to have settled down upon a more permanent basis
that bids fair  to  continue, and which will  raise  the
schools to a much higher plane than they have ever
 - 149 - 
132               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
occupied.   The town system appears to have little, if
any, opposition, and the superintendency seems also to
have become an established fact.   That this is the true
course is very evident, from the fact that the town has
now forty-eight schools in  operation, under the charge
of fifty-four teachers, with a school population of two
thousand and six, between the ages of five  and fifteen
years, according to the report of the year 1883, necessi-
tating an appropriation of not far  from $32,000.  Of
the  schools,  two are  high,  twelve  grammar, twenty
intermediate, and fourteen primary.
"Weymouth and Bhaintree Academy.*—Feeling
the need of a higher seminary of learning than any that
had been sustained hitherto  in  the town, in the early
part of the present century a project was undertaken
by some of the prominent citizens of Weymouth Land-
ing for the establishment of an academy of high grade,
and an act of incorporation was obtained, dated 28th of
February, 1828, in which Cotton Tufts, Joseph Loud,
!Noah Fifield, and others were named as corporators.
A suitable building was erected the  same year, upon
land donated for the purpose by Capt. Warren Weston,
on the side of the hill, a short distance above his dwell-
ing, on the Weymouth and Braintree turnpike, and the
institution was begun.  The first principal was Thomas
or Samuel Gregg, and soon after a Mr. Goodell was
furnished him as  an assistant.   Mr. Gregg remained
but a short time, and was succeeded by Samuel Thomas
Worcester,  afterwards judge, with Miss Mary F. R.
Wales,  as  assistant:  this  was  about  the  spring  of
1830.  These were soon married to each other, and left
the school together.   Calvin E. Park, a brother of Pro-
1 The records of the academy have been lost, and the facts respecting
it are gathered from various sources worthy of credit.
 - 150 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.             133
fessor Park, of Andover, followed Mr. "Worcester, and
Miss Lucy M. K. Brastow took the  place  of  Miss
"Wales.   Mr. Eldredge succeeded Mr. Park, and was
probably  the  last  that  taught for  the  corporation.
There were several who attempted private schools in
the building, but, like the academy, they were financial
failures, and in  1833 the building was sold  and con-
verted into a  double tenement dwelHng-house, having
previously been used tor a short time by the  public
schools.   The building was burned in 184i.
Newspapers.' —As far as information can be ob-
tained, the first  attempt at newspaper publishing in the
town was made about fifty years ago, by Josiah White,
of N^orth Weymouth, an  amateur printer,  with  very
limited facilities.   Only a few numbers were published,
and those at irregular intervals.   It soon ceased to ap-
pear, for want of sufficient encouragement.  For many
years succeeding this, "Weymouth was without a local
press, although occasional attempts were made by pub-
lishers  of neighboring towns to introduce  their  own
papers here with a slight change in the form and with a
local heading.  In 1867, the Weymouth Gazette, pub-
lished by C. G. Easterbrook, made its  first appearance,
and it  has since that time been issued regularly every
week.   It has made itself a local necessity, and has
become a permanent institution.   During the existence
of the  Gazette,  several  attempts have been  made to
introduce rival sheets, the first of these being the  Wey-
mouth Courier, which began its  publication in 1876, in
East "Weymouth, under the charge of Jones & Co.  It
survived about one year.   The Weymouth Advance was
the next candidate for the positionj   started  in  1877,
'  Furnished by Charles G. Easterbrook, Esq., editor of the Weymouth
Gazette.
 - 151 - 
134               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
at East WeymoiTth, by C. F. David, and had an exist-
ence of about two years.   Spooner & Webster under-
took to resuscitate the hitter enterprise, but, after a few
weeks, the  attempt was abandoned, as  was also  the
effort to revive the Weymouth Courier by Mr. Spooner.
The "Weymouth Historical Society.' —This so-
ciety was organized in the spring of 1879, by several
gentlemen, for purposes indicated by its  name.  The
growing interest in historical matters and the absence
of any history of this ancient and important town en-
couraged the effort, and its  object has been to collect
and preserve historical paaterial, mainly that connected
with this toAvn.  Elias Richards, Esq., has been its pres-
ident since its foundation, and it  has succeeded in col-
lecting a valuable amount of historical matter.   It has
also a small but constantly increasing library of histori-
cal works.  Its meetings are of much interest and are
held monthly in the Tufts Library rooms, where also
are located its library and other collections.
Social Libraries were formed in several of the vil-
lages in the town in the early part of the present cen-
tury.   The shares were owned by the members, and the
expenses paid by a small annual fee.   These proved of
great  benefit,  but the  foundations  upon which they
rested were not calculated for permanence, and in a few
years they gradually disappeared.  The first permanent
organization of the kind was the Mutual Library Asso-
ciation  of South W^eymouth, formed JlSTov.  13,  1863,
with eighty members, holding about one hundred and
thirty-five shares, and a library  of four hundred vol-
umes, which has  now increased  to  fifteen  hundred.
Previous to  Dec. 24, 1881, the library was supported
' Compiled from the records of the society.
 - 152 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              135
by anmial fees,  fines,  and occasional  entertainments.
Since tliat date it has been free to the public, depending
upon private contributions and extra entertainments for
its support.  It is  well patronized and promises perma-
nence.^
The  Tufts  Library.^ —This  is  a  free,  public
library, located at Weymouth Landing, and was estab-
lished from a fund left by will, for this  purpose, by the
late  Quincy Tufts, and his  sister.  Miss Susan Tufts,
grandchildren of Dr. Cotton Tufts, one of Weymouth's
most valuable  citizens  during the whole of the latter
half of the eighteenth century.  The estimated value
of the  fund is  about  twenty thousand  dollars,  and
came into  possession  of  the trustees  of  the  Tufts
Library in  1879, who immediately proceeded to apply
it  to its  intended purposes.  A part of the fund con-
sisted of two buildings at the Landing, the lower story
of one being fitted up for the library, and the income
derived from the remainder of the fund devoted to fur-
nishing and sustaining it.    Books were purchased and
arranged, a librarian engaged, and the library opened
to the public the 1st of January of the year 1880, with
about  two  thousand  three  hundred volumes.  Since
then, the library  has been rapidly increased from the
income of its funds, and from liberal appropriations by
the town, until its volumes have reached the number of
about seven thousand five hundred (Jan. 1, 1881), and
is one of the most valuable and best selected for its size
of any in the land.   It is highly appreciated and exten-
sively used by almost the whole body of inhabitants of
sufficient age; and the call has been so large from the
other villages of the town, that the trustees have made
arrangements by which these can be supplied with the
>  Facts supplied by Henry A. Thomas, Esq.
From official records.
 - 153 - 
136               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
books without expense to the takers,  thus making it
available to all the people, although it is  located in one
ofthe villages.   The income of a part of the fund was
set apart by the devisor, for free lectures upon educa-
tional matters;   and three courses of these have already
been provided.  The Ubrary is in the control of a board
oftrustees, consisting of the selectmen of the town, ex
officio, and others chosen by the town according to the
terms of the legacy.
 - 154 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             137
CHAPTER VIII.
Military Organizations: Early Companies, Company for the Castle, Wey-
mouth Light Horse, WeymouthArtillery, Weymouth Light Infantry,
Franklin Guards—Grand Ai-my of the Eepublic: Lincoln Post, No.
40, Reynolds Post,  ISTo. 58—Societies  and Associations: Masonic:
Orphans Hope Lodge, Delta Lodge,  South Shore  Coraraandery,
Pentalpa Royal Arch Chapter—Odd Pellows: Crescent Lodge, VVil-
dey Lodge, Wompatuck Encampment—Knights of Pythias: Delphi
Lodge—Knights of Honor: Pilgrim  Lodge —^AVeymouih Agricul-
tural and Industrial Society—Other Organizations.
Military ORQANizATioisrs.' —Yerj early,  in  fact
from the beginning of the settlement, the necessities of
the times called the attention of the people to  military
matters.  They were obliged to furnish themselves with
arms, and to have some kind of organized associations,
to resist their savage enemies, who were ever on the
alert to surprise them.  Consequently, among the earli-
est movements recorded are the formation of military
companies  and the employment of men " to  trayne
"
them.  The records of Weymouth show its interest and
participation in these organizations in the first  years of
its existence.
As the various wars began and ended, this  feeling
became active  or  dormant, and new movements were
made from time to time, as fresh occasions called for
them.  Ofthe earlier organizations nothing very definite
is known.  In the first century of the colony, Weymouth
had its  troop ofhorse, besides its regular enrolment of
militia,  covering all  able-bodied men of military  age,
'  The facts for these sketches are drawn from the town records, State
archives, and other sources.
 - 155 - 
138                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
formed into companies and officered.   This system, if
the rude oi-ganizatioiis can be dignified by such a term,
continued lb]- two hundred years.
]!^ear  the close of the first  half of the  eighteenth
century an independent company was formed in Wey-
mouth for service at Castle William, in Boston Harbor,
under command of Major Adam Gushing.  Its officers
were Ebenezer White, captain;  Ebenezer Porter, lieu-
tenant; and JohnPorter, ensign; with a roster number-
ing sixty-six persons, most of whom were young men,
from eighteen to twenty-five years of age.  Afull list of
its members is in existence at the present time.
During the latter part of the century the troop of
horse was revived, and in 1798 the Weymouth Light-
Horse Troop was regularly organized, with John White
as its  first  captain,  whose commission dates Aug. 13
of that year.   This company held its  existence about
a dozen years, and included on its rolls a large portion
of the active, prominent citizens.
The next organization was the Weymouth Artillery
Company, formed in  1801,  with  Nathaniel  Shaw as
its  first  captain, his commission dating Oct. 5 of the
same year.   This company enjoyed an active life  of
more than forty years, and was composed of the "first
young men" of the town.  It disbanded about 1843.
The Weymouth Light Infantry was a local organi-
zation,  formed at  Weymouth Landing in  1818, Levi
Bates being its first captain, the date of whose commis-
sion is recorded as Feb. 9, 1818.  It was composed of
the active men of the village, and continued its existence
for about fifteen years.
The Franklin Guards, of South Weymouth, was a
local organization, as indicated by its  name.  Its first
captain was Samuel P. Bayley, commissioned Feb. 26,
1822.  The company was continued for ten or fifteen
years.
 - 156 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              139
Grand Army op the Republic, Department of
Massachusetts/—Lincoln Post, N^o.  40, named for
our lamented President, was organized Jan. 2, 1868, at
ISTorth Weymouth, having for its first Commander, Gen.
B. r. Pratt, who had previously been a comrade of Post
15, in  Boston.   In August, 1873,  it  surrendered its
charter and united with Post 58.
Reynolds Post, 'No. 58, was formed July 14, 1868,
and numbered, Dec. 1,  1883, three hundred and nine-
teen members.  It was named in honor of Gen. John F.
Reynolds, of the First Army Corps, under whom many
of its comrades served.   Its first  Commander was Gen.
James L. Bates; and its present, Col. B. S. Lovell.   Its
charity fund amounts to $13,000; and up to the begin-
ning of 1883, the Post had expended, in  relief  and
benefits to sick comrades and to widows and orphans of
deceased soldiers,  the  sum of $6,768.83.   During its
later years the disbursements for these purposes have
been about $1,000 annually.  The funeral expenses of a
comrade, to the amount of fifty dollars, are borne by the
Post, in  cases where the family or connections of the
deceased would find it  a burden to provide them.  All
of the members are  uniformed.   The Post is  a most
useful  organization,  and was never more prosperous
than at present.   Its regular meetings are held on the
first  and third Tuesdays of each month.
Societies and Associations.^—Masonic. —Among
the most important associations  in  the  town are  the
Masonic organizations, of which there are three.
The Orphans Hope Lodge of Ancient, Free, aud
Accepted Masons was instituted  June 8,  1825;  the
* Supplied by Capt. Charles W. Hastings and others.
2 The materials for these sketches are mostly furnished by officers of
the various societies named, and are gathered from their records.
 - 157 - 
140               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
charter  was granted  to  John Edson and others.   In
1830, during the  anti-Masonic excitement, the charter
was returned to the Grand Lodge, and Sept. 10, 1856,
was reissued on petition of Lovell Bicknell and others.
John Edson was the first Master, and Timothy Gordon
the first Secretary.  From the return of the charter the
Lodge has always been in a prosperous condition, and
never more successful than at  the present time.   Its
meetings were held first  at Weymouth Landing, then
at  North Weymouth, and since at  East Weymouth,
always in hired apartments;   but a new hall is  now in
process of erection by the Lodge in the latter village,
and will probably be ready for occupancy in the fall  of
1881.  The Lodge numbers one hundred and sixty-six
members.
The Delta Lodge, at Weymouth Landing, was char-
tered July 2, 1869, by the Grand Lodge;   the first meet-
ing having been  held on  May 12 of  the  previous
year.   Edward Avery was the first  Worshipful Mas-
ter;   ]Sr.  F.  T. Hunt, Senior Warden; A. S.  White,
Treasurer;  C. G. Thompson, Secretary.   The present
officers are Alden Bowditch, Worshipful Master; E. E.
Richards, Senior Warden; John M. Walsh, Treasurer;
Wm. S. Wallace, Secretarj^.
The South Shore Commander}^ of Knights Templars
was duly constituted by charter Oct. 13, 1871, Z. L.Bick-
nell, Commander; George Wyman Fay, Generalissimo;
and E.  Waters Burr, Captain-General.  Its  place  of
meeting is at East Weymouth, and its present member-
ship (September, 1883) is one hundred and fifty-three.
Its  present ofiicers  are E. W. H. Bass, Commander;
William Fearing,  Generalissimo;  Charles l!^.   Marsh,
Recorder;  Andrew J.  Garey,  Captain-General;  and
Edmund G. Bates, Treasurer.
Pentalpa Royal Arch Chapter held its  first ^meeting
June 14,  1870.  Stephen S.  Bradford,  High Priest;
 - 158 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             141
William Humphrey, King; A. A. Holbrook, Scribe;
Samuel A. Bates, Secretary.  Its  present officers  are
Francis  K.  Slack,  High Priest;  Joel  F.  Sheppard,
King;  John  M. Walsh,  Scribe;  William  Gushing,
Secretary;  and its  membership is  one  hundred and
twenty-four.
The Independent  Order of Odd Felloivs  has two
Lodges in the town.
The Crescent Lodge, N^o.  32,  at  East Weymouth,
was instituted Aug. 22, 1845.  It has received into its
membership three  hundred  and  forty-six,  of  whom
forty-five  have died.
The Wildey Lodge, of South Weymouth, was insti-
tuted March 9,  1875, with eighteen charter members,
and has now a membership of one hundred and eigh-
teen.   Its growth has been steady and permanent, and
it stands second to none in sustaining the objects of its
organization.   It  has  a  fine  building  erected  by its
members, which, with its  furnishing,  has  cost  fifteen
thousand dollars.   In this building are  a  hall  for the
use of the Lodge, a public hall and two stores.
The Wompatuck Encampment, Ifo.  18, was origi-
nally organized in Hinghara, but surrendered its charter
Feb. 2, 1851.  It was reinstated at  East Weymouth,
Oct. 27, 1875, at the petition of Stephen Cain and thir-
teen others, with George W. Pratt, C. P.; A. H. Leon-
ard, Scribe; K. Chamberlain, Treasurer.
Kniglits of Pytliias. —The Delphi Lodge, IS'o.  15,
was organized Dec.  17,  1869,  with  thirteen  charter
members,  at  Weymouth Landing;  was  burned  out
Sept. 15, 1870, sustaining a loss of six hundred dollars.
The Lodge now occupies a fine new hall, well furnished,
and is  growing rapidly, with a present membership of
one hundred and twelve.
Knights ofHonor. —The Pilgrim Lodge, T^^o.  485,
at East Weymouth, was organized Feb. 27, 1877, with
 - 159 - 
142                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
thirteen  charter  members; first  named "Cooper," in
compliment of its first Dictator, but two years after this,
for obvious reasons, the name was changed to "Pilgrim."
Its growth has been slow but steady, and now numbers
sixty members.  This is  a benevolent association, and
pays two thousand dollars to the heirs of each member
upon his death.  Frank W. Lewis is  the present Dic-
tator.
The Weymouth Agi^icultural and Industrial Society
was formed Oct,  31, 18G4:,  for purposes indicated by
its  name, to promote the interests of agriculture and
industry.  Its first president was James L. Bates; and
its present, AlvahRaymond.  It owns about thirty-three
acres of land in the  southeasterly part of the town,
upon which there is  a half-mile track, with horse sta-
bles, etc.   Its stock is held at ten dollars per share, of
which there are about nine hundred held by four hun-
dred  and seventy members.   The society  holds  an
annual fair  upon its  grounds, and is  in a prosperous
condition.
There are also several other organizations of similar
character, among them the  Hibernians of East Wey-
mouth, a Council of the Royal Arcanum, at Weymouth
Landing, and many temperance associations, -Temple
of  Honor, Reform Club,  Good Templars,  Woman's
Temperance Union, and others, of which fuller mention
cannot be made for want of space.
 - 160 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              143
CHAPTER IX.
Business Enterprises' —Mills: The Waltham-Eichards-Bates Mill, Tide
Mill, Tirrell's Mill, Reed's Mill, Loud's Mill, Vinson's Mill, Dyer's
Mill—Turnpikes: Weymouth and Braintree, NewBedford, Hinghara
and Quincy Bridge —-Railroads:  Old Colony,  South Shore —Ex-
presses—Telegraph —Telephone—Financial Corporations—Banks
:
Union National, National of  South AVeymouth—Savings Banks:
Weymouth, South Weymouth, East Weymouth—Weymouth and
Braintree  Eire  Insurance  Company—Manufactures:  Boots  and
Shoes —Weymouth Iron Company—Fish Company—Weymouth
Commercial Company—Ice  Companies —Bradley Fertilizer Com-
pany—Ship Building —Bay State  Hammock Companj^—Howe &
French—Fire-Works—Mitten Factory—Miscellaneous.
MiLLS.^—Weymouth has always, from its settlement
by the English, been noted for its  excellent mill  priv-
ileges.   Mill River, from its departure from Great Pond
to its mouth at tide-water, abounds with valuable sites
which have been improved during almost if not quite its
entire histor}^.   The mill of William Waltham is  men-
tionedin his will in 1640.  In the following January, 1641,
a difficulty arose between Henry Waltham, to whom the
'  The portion of this sketch devoted to business matters is  necessarily
very brief, the space allowing only a bare outline of important interests.
Many are omitted entirely, among which are all of that class engaged in
supplying the material wants of the inhabitants, very large in the aggre-
gate, employing much capital  and many individuals.   Several of the
smaller manufactures are also unmentioned for  want of  room.   The
compiler believes, however, that he has treated the business interests of
the town as fully and fairly as can be reasonably demandedin a work of
this magnitude.
*The sketch of the mill property has been gathered from the town,
county and private records, and from Quincy L. Beed, Esq., to whom the
compiler is especially indebted for much valuable information, much of
which has been omitted for want of space.
 - 161 - 
144               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
property had passed, and Wealthean Richards, wife of
Thomas Richards, whose husband was absent from the
eonnti'j and had left her in charge of his interest.  This
was submitted to a  reference  consisting of Rev. Mr.
ISTewman, James Parker, Esq., and Edward Bates.  In
1642, Henry Waltham sold  one half of his  grist mill
(the same property) to Joseph Arthur, of Weymouth,
England, for one hundred and forty pounds, with other
property.  In 1651, after  the death of Mr. Richards,
who seems to  have obtained possession of the whole
property, the mill was set off to his widow.  The town
records of that date say it " was on the road to Hingham
Plain,"  This locates it at Back River, below Whitman's
Pond.  The mill (or mills) seems to have passed into
the hands of Elder Bates, and was used as a grist, saw,
and fulling mill, probably in two different buildings and
a short distance apart.   After several changes the priv-
ileges passed into the possession of the Weymouth Iron
Company in 1837, which has since improved them.
The Tide Mill. —As early as 1669 the " tyde mill
"
is mentioned.  In 1682 it is  called "leash's grist mill."
In 1696, James isTash, the second of the name, left  it  to
his grandson, James Drake, from whom it  passed into
possession of the Burrells, and soon after, the  Webbs,
with whom it remained for a hundred or more years.  It
was used for mill purposes until the present generation.
It is now dismantled, and the privilege is not used.  Its
location was on Mill Cove, on the easterly side of Fore
River, and not far from the original Weston settlement.
.         TirrelVs Mill. —This mill is  situated very near the
centre of the town, and dates from 1693, when the town
granted a permit to Gideon Tirrell to set up a fulling
mill at " blade mill."   Whether the latter name refers to
the name of the owner or to the kind of a mill previously
there is  not known  It remained in the family of its
original builder until quite recently, when it was bought
 - 162 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             145
by J. Loud & Co., and by tbem sold to IToAve &French,
the present owners.
ReecVs Mill. —Followmg the course of the sti'eam for
about two miles towards its source, where it crosses the
old Plymouth road, Reed's Mill is  found, built near the
close of the last century by Jeremiah Shaw.  It  came
into the hands of Ezra Reed about 1811, and was used
as a grist mill until 1855, when the present building was
erected, which was occupied by E. & C. Sherman as a
box factory for a  dozen years.   The upper mill  was
built in 1866, and was used as a saw mill until  1877,
when it was leased to Cyrus Sherman and used for the
manufacture Qf boot and shoe lasts, at which business
he employs about twelve hands.
Laud's      —This wis probably  the  oldest  mill
above Tirrelfs.   It was built near the beginning of the
last  century,  and was known as  Sayle's  Mill.    That
family is now extinct in the town.  At that period quit(^
a village clustered about this mill,  of which only the
ruined cellars remain.  The present mill was erected in
1836 as a grist mill by Mr. Loud, where, in 1850, he
commenced making boxes.  He still carries on the busi-
ness there, employing about ten persons.   This mill is a
short distance above the Reed Mill.
Yinsori's  Mill. —This  mill,  formerly  known  as
Colson's, is located not far fi'om  Great Pond, and was
erected about 1765.  It passed into the hands of Mr.
Vinson, and was used as a grist mill until about 1837,
and afterwards for a time as a bucket and shingle mill.
The property is now owned by Mr. Elon Sherman, and
used as a box factory, with about fifteen workmen.  A
few years since the old mill was burned and a new one
erected.   Mr. Sherman has also, within a year or two,
commenced the manufacture of paper cartons for shoes.
Dyer'^s 3Iill. —This mill is  located on Marsh River,
on Pleasant Street, and was probably built by William
 - 163 - 
146               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Reed before 1700.  In 1716 it  is  named in the will  of
John Porter as the " saw mill."   It snbsequcntly passed
into the hands of the Dyers, and was used by them as a
grist mill.   It has not been used for mill purposes for
about fifty or sixty years.
TuENPiKES,  Eaileoads,  Etc.i —The  primitive
means of communication with Boston and other towns
was by private  conveyance,  horses,  ox-wagons,  and
afterwards carriages, —with  the  sailing  packets,  the
latter  being the  main  dependence  for  this  purpose.
From the earliest times the packet was the  favorite,
being quicker, cheaper and more convenient, and was
in constant use for more than two hundred years, one
or two of them always finding ready employment in
passengers and freight.   As the roads improved, and
the needs of the people became greater, the stage-coach
made its appearance and ran regularly between this town
and Boston, until the necessity of still  better roads for
the accommodation of the increasing travel became ap-
parent.   Turnpikes were projected in various places, and
several were projDOsed that should pass through Wey-
mouth.  The conservative element prevailed so strongly
that the town strenuously opposed every attempt to
locate  any through it,  especially  those  crossing  the
rivers.   Ifotwithstanding all the endeavors of the town,
charters were granted for three.
The Weymouth and Braintree  Turn'pike,  crossing
from Weymouth Landing southeasterly to Hingham, on
the line from Boston to Plymouth, was chartered March
4, 1803, and opened for travel in 1805.   This was con-
tinued for nearly fifty years, when, owing to the changed
condition of things with new modes of conveyance, it
'  The turnpike and railroad statistics and history are compiled from the
town, State and corporation files.
 - 164 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              147
was thrown upon the town, July 15, 1852, and became
a pnbhc road, now known as Washington Street.
A second,  the JSfeiD  Bedford Turnpike, obtained a
charter, 29th of February, 1804, and was laid out from
the Weymouth and Braintree turnpike, beginning about
a  mile from the Landing, running nearly south to the
Abington line,  on  the  route  from  Boston  to  l^ew
Bedford.  The northerly part of the road was never a
paying concern, and before many years it  lapsed into
private hands and is now Main Street.
The Hingliam and  Quincy Bridge and Turnpilce
Corporation was chartered 5th March, 1808, and opened
for travel,  with its  two bridges over Fore arid  Back
Rivers,  connecting  Quincy and  Hingham, in  1812.
These bridges, with their tolls /"/'om travellers and tolls
to vessels passing through the draws, were a continual
source of vexation and contention, which did not cease
until the whole property was thrown upon the towns as
a public highway, 25th September, 1862.
Railroads. —Succeeding these, and the main cause
of their failure, came the railroads; and the same spirit
that had opposed the turnpike came forward in great
strength against the railroad,  and the  town opposed
every attempt to locate one across its  territory, but the
genius of progress prevailed, and in March, 1844,
The Old Colony Railroad received its  charter, and
located its track across the southwest corner of the town
from Braintree to Abington, passing a little  south of
the village of South Weymouth.  The road was speed-
ily built, and was opened for travel I^^Tov. 10, 1845.
The South 8hore Railroad soon followed the Old
Colony,  its  charter dating March 26, 1846,  and was
opened to the public Jan. 1, 1849.   This road crosses
the  town near the  villages  of Weymouth Landing,
JTorth Weymouth and East Weymouth, the  princi-
pal centres of population and business.  It was run at
 - 165 - 
148               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
first connecting with the Old Colony at Braintree, and
was afterwards hired by the latter.   In May, 1877, it
was bought by that corporation, and is  now one of its
branches.
The Express Business has grown in a half-century
—at  the beginning of which private teams were the
only  means of  transportation  aside from the sailing
packets —until it numbers a dozen companies, employ-
ing scores of men and twice as many horses, re(^uiring
not far from $60,000 of capital.
The tdegraiili and the telejplione  have also become
indispensable to  the wants of the inhabitants, several
lines of the former running through the town, and the
latter  being freely used by many business houses.  It
is found very convenient also for families.
FiNAisrciAL CoEPORATioNS.' —The increase of mer-
cantile business and the springing up of manufactures
consequent upon the revival of trade, at the beginning
of the nineteenth century, demanded greater financial
facilities than were previously enjoyed.  In the circles
immediately concerned there was not capital enough to
do the necessary business, and exchanges were difii-
cult.   As the grand panacea for all  these evils, banks
were proposed and established, and Weymouth did not
refuse to encourage such enterprises.   Consequently,
The Union Banh of Weymouth and Braintree was
proposed, $100,000 capital contributed, an act of incor-
poration obtained, dated March 17, 1832, and the com-
pany organized on the 11th of April, with choice  of
Josiah Vinton, Jr., as president, and commenced busi-
ness as soon as the necessary details could be arranged.
'  These sketches come principally from the records of the institutions
mentioned.
 - 166 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             149
In 1S53 an increase of $50,000 was made to its  capital.
On Sept.  6,  1884,  the  bank reorganized  under the
United States  N^ational  Banking Act as  the  Union
ISTational  Bank of Weymouth, and Jan. 12, 1865, the
capital was increased to $300,000; and again, April 12,
1869, another $100,00O was added, making its  present
capital $400,000.  It has a building of its own, and has
alwaj^s been located at Weymouth Landing.
The First National Bank of South Weymouth was
organized Oct. 31, 1864, in consequence of the increase
of business in that part of the town, and to employ a
part of the capital rapidly accumulating there.   Hon.
B. F. White was its first president, and its  capital was
$150,000.  In 1866 it  purchased the building it  now
occupies.
The JVeymouth and Braintree Institution for Sav-
ings was incorporated Feb.  16,  1833.   The original
incorporators named wereAsaWebb, Whitcomb Porter,
and Warren Weston.  It began business the following
February, 1834, Dr. ISToah Fifield being the first  presi-
dent.   By act of Legislature, March 19, 1872, its name
was changed to Weymouth Savings Bank.  Its assets,
Jan. 1, 1883, were $565,432.06.
The South Weymouth Savings Banh was incorpo-
rated  March 6,  1868,  in the  name of  Benjamin F.
White and others, and commenced business the follow-
ing month.  Its assets amounted to $395,176.20 at the
last report.
The TJast Weyinouth Savings Bankwas incorporated
in 1872, and began business.   OnJan. 1, 1883, its assets
were reported at $247,357.56.
The Weymouth and Braintree Mutual Fire Insur-
ance Company was incorporated in 1833.  Asa Webb
was chosen president, F. A. Kingsbury, secretary, and
Ezra Leach, treasurer.   After fifty years of active busi-
ness, it is now closing its affairs.
 - 167 - 
150               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Manufaotures.^—For nearly two hundred years
"Weymouth was eminently an agricultural community.
It had fine large farms, well cultivated and productive.
A hundred years ago a much larger pi'oportion of its
area was under cultivation than at present, and many of
the best farms of that date or earlier are now grown up
to woodor bushes.   Its dairies were celebrated through-
out the State.   With the introduction of manufactures
a new condition of things was called into existence, and
the young men, instead of following the occupation of
their fathers, began to learn trades, and the farms being
neglected, the town gradually changedfrom agriculture
to manufactures, and is  now almost wholly given up to
the latter.
Boots and SJioes. —This interest  largely predomi-
nates,  and employs more men and capital  than any
other branch of industry.  As late as the beginning of
the present century there were probably not more than
three or four persons who manufactured this  class of
goods for other than the home market, and those only
gave employment to a few apprentices, besides what
they could do themselves.  These goods were carried
to Boston market either upon the backs of the manu-
facturers, who made the journey on foot, or else in sad-
dle-bags uponhorses.  Thebusiness gradually increased,
until it became necessary to use wagons to carry in the
goods  and bring  out materials.   The beginnings of
this trade were at Weymouth Landing, spreading thence
to the north and south villages, reaching latest  of all
'  The materials upon which the following record is founded have been
gathered from a large variety of public and private sources, and, where
possible, have been carefully verified, and are believed to contain the
more important facts connected with the business enterprises of the town.
This has been a task of considerable difficulty, as many of the items are
not a matter of record, but must be galheretl from oral statement.  It is
thought, however, to contain no important error.
 - 168 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              151
the east, which now surpasses all  of the others in the
magnitude of its  business in this line.   It was a whole
generation before  it  became necessary to  employ a
" baggage wagon," the clumsy pioneer of the present
express, and the buildings used in carrying on the man-
ufacture would hardly suffice for offices  at the present
day, the goods being made wholly at the homes of the
workmen, nearly all of whom had little shops in or near
their dwellings, the work being prepared and packed
only at the factory.   As late as  1840, it was a large
factory  that produced $500 worth  of goods in  the
week.  About that period South Weymouth received
an impetus from its Southern trade (some of its  manu-
facturers having gone to ]^ew Orleans and established
salesrooms in that city) ,  which placed it far ahead of its
rivals  at the  Landing and ISTorth  Weymouth.  The
increase in  the volume of the business was, however,
very large in all parts of the town, especially after the
opening of California, in 1849; and the large demand
from that State for this class of manufactures the town
wasforward to meet.  From these small beginnings the
trade has increased, until there are now forty establish-
ments, employing upwards of 2,500 persons, and using
more than  a  million  dollars  of capital.   The annual
production of the various classes of goods is about four
millions of dollars in value.   Six or eight of these fac-
tories furnish work to one hundred to five hundred peo-
ple each.
Iron. —In the spring of 1771 iron ore, in  sufficient
quantities to pay well for gathering, began to  be found
in the ponds of the town, and a contract was made with
Thomas Hobart, of Abington, by a public sale, for the
ore found in Great Pond at forty shillings per ton, with
an agreement to defend him against any claims for dam-
ages that might be advanced by other parties should any
contest the town's right to the ore;  a committee was
 - 169 - 
152               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
also chosen by the town to prosecute any others who
should be found takin<^ ore from tliis pond.
This contract remained in  force  until  the  20th of
May, 1773, when a lease was given to Mr. Holjart for
thirty years, at sixty pounds per year, for the privilege
of taking ore from Great, Whitman's, and  Whortle-
berry Ponds.  Ore has been found at various times and
places besides, and attempts made to utilize it, but the
quantities were so small and the expense of getting it
so great that competition with more favored deposits
could not be maintained, and the enterprises were aban-
doned.  After the expiration of Mr. Hobart's lease the
town appears to have made no other.
The  Weymouth Iron  Comjyanij  is  one of the lar-
gest manufacturing establishments in  the  town.   It
was incorporated  March 4,  1837,  with a capital  of
$150,000, which has since been increased to |i300,000.
It owns the splendid water privilege at Back River, at
the foot of Whitman's Pond.  For many years it  was
exceedingly  prosperous,  making enormous dividends.
From various causes its  business gradually declined,
and it  ceased for a  time  to  pay a  profit;  but quite
recently its trade has begun to revive, and its prospects
are again more encouraging.  At present it  manufac-
tures only nails, and these have a very wide reputation.
It employs two hundred and seventy-five men, when
running full.
Fish Company.—In the early part of the eighteenth
century a company was formed by a number of the
prominent men of the town for the purpose of carry-
ing  on  "a fishing  trade  to  Cape Sables,"  and  the
town granted to it the use of " so much of Hunt's Hill,
with the lowland and beach adjoining, at the mouth of
Fore River, as may be necessary for the purpose."  As
far as the record shows, this was the first  joint-stock
company formed in the town.  Of its  history but little
is known.
 - 170 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             153
After this,  by nearly a century, came  the  "Wey-
mouth Commercial Company," in 1805, formed for the
jjurpose of carrying on a foreign and domestic trade.
This  company employed  a  capital  of  not  far  from
twenty thousand dollars, the shares of the several stock-
holders varying from three hundred to  three  thousand
dollars each; Eliphalet Loud, Esq., being the treasurer.
It owned several vessels,  among which were the ship
"Commerce," Capt. Joseph Tirrell, the brig "Adamant,"
and the  schooner " Venus."  This company does not
appear to have had a prolonged existence.
Ice Comj)anies. —The ice business is  carried on to
considerable extent,  there being several companies in
various parts  of the town engaged in  suppl3'ing  the
local  demand,  while  the  " South Boston Ice  Com-
pany " cuts large quantities for export.   The ice-houses
of the latter  are  located at  Great Pond, and have a
holding capacity of forty thousand tons, from which they
ship to Boston about twenty-five thousand tons annually.
The season for cutting lasts from four to six weeks, dur-
ing which the company employs from seventy-five to
one hundred and fifty  men, and from twenty to thirty
horses,  the quality of the ice  being the finest in  the
market.  The company commenced business  here in
1874.
Lumber, Grain, and Coal. —The navigable waters
bordering the northern part of the town have ever been
improved by the inhabitants as sources of convenience
and profit  in  the  transportation  of  passengers  and
freight.   From the early settlement sailing vessels ran
with more or less  regularity between this  town and
Boston, as well as other places about the bay, but it was
not until the present century that there began to be
anything like commercial adventure.  Quite early in the
nineteenth century the lumber trade was opened with
the  Maine ports, and several freights  came annually
 - 171 - 
154               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
into  Fore  River.    After 1820 the  trade  increased
rapidly, and Weymouth Landing became the  market
for the kimber traffic of the towns lying for many miles
to the southward.  The business was carried on with
enterprise  and success  for  many years,  and  was a
source of profit to the village, until the opening of the
railroads diverted much of this  trade to other places.
There is still, however, a large business done in this line
at the Landing.  Following the opening of tlie  lumber
traffic,  the importation of grain from New York and
other places was begun, and soon after  coal became a
staple commodity.  All of these branches of business
have been continued until the present time, and are now
prosecuted largely and successfully by several concerns,
who employ large numbers of men and many vessels;
and it is  no uncommon sight to  witness lying at the
wharves half a dozen vessels laden with coal and lum-
ber, some of them carrying a freight of four or five hun-
dred tons each.
Among the  various industrial interests  not before
named are the " Bradley Fertilizer  Company," formed
in  1872  for  the  purpose  of  manufacturing  various
kinds of fertilizers, successors of William L. Bradley,
who had previously been engaged in the same business
for eleven years.   The company owns a large tract of
land  upon Eastern Neck, the northernmost point on
the  mainland of Weymouth, upon which they have
erectedaboutthirtybuildings, withwharves andlandings,
where they employ about one hundred and seventy-five
men, and are manufacturing about sixty thousand tons
of their productions in the year.   They also  own and
use the tow-boat " Peter B. Bradley," the largest and
strongest in Boston Harbor, with five  " lighters,"  two
of three bundled tons each,  one of two hundred tons,
and two of one hundred tons each; also a brig of three
hundred and fifty tons.
 - 172 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             155
STiiji-Suilding.  —AlthoughWeymouthhas been dur-
ing most of its  history much interested in mercantile
marine affairs, owning vessels and furnishing men, yet
it has never been largely engaged in the construction of
these vessels.  About half a century ago a ship-yard
was established at Weymouth Landing by Atherton W.
Tilden, which he carried on for a few years, and built a
number of vessels of various  sizes,  some of several
hundred tons burden.  From that time until  1876 but
little if anything was done at the business.   In the lat-
ter year    Porter Keen commenced the construction
of vessels in Old Spain, near Hunt's Hill, and since that
time he has built elevenvessels, sail and steam, averaging
a cost of about forty thousand dollars each.   There is
on the stocks at present a large vessel intended for a
four-masted  schooner  (since  launched).   Mr. Keen
employs about thii ty men.
The Bay State Hammock Company, Augustus Beals,
proprietor, has a  factory in  Old  Spain.   Commenced
business in 1876, making about two hundred hammocks
per year, and now produces twenty-five thousand annu-
ally, employing about fifty workmen.
Howe & French purchased, about ten years since,
the old Tirrell Mill, where they manufacture fish glue,
working about five months in the year, and employing
about seventy individuals.
Mre-Works.—About the year 1850, EdmundS. Hunt,
of this town, began his first  experiments in the manu-
facture of fire-works,  but it  was not until  1856 that
the business was fairly  established.   Since that time
it  has been carried on with  success, and has a  well-
earned reputation for the quality and variety of its  pro-
ductions.   The factory is  at Weymouth Landing, and
in the busy season employs about thirty operatives.
Tanning  and  Currying. —In former  days  these
branches of business were carried  on in  many small
 - 173 - 
156               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
estah^ishments scattered in various parts of the town;
but these have nearly all  disappeared, and are repre-
sented bythree concerns, who employ in all from twenty
to thirty men.  One of these factories, that of W. Hum-
phrey & Co.,  has been in  existence,  under various
owners, for considerably more than a hundred years.
There are also three firms occupied in extracting the
oil from the calf-skin skirtings collected at the boot and
shoe factories, and in bleaching them.  This business
employs eight men, and extracts  about  two tons  of
grease per week.  The work is  done at  East Wey-
mouth.
At South Weymouth, Clarence A. Hunt has a large
factory, in which, during the trade season, he employs
one hundred and twenty hands, mostly girls and young
men, in the production of various kinds of mittens and
gloves, including all  kinds of leather and yarn work,
about one hundred dozen being a day's work.
There are also many small factories of different kinds
of which space will  permit only the mention, among
them a furniture factory at North Weymouth; a factory
at East Weymouth for the canning of fruits, vegetables,
and meats;  several  stamping  and gilding  establish-
ments; also others for making heels and counters for
boots and shoes.
 - 174 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.             157
CHAPTER X.
Ministers  of the  First  Church:  William  Morrell —Mr.  Barnard —
Joseph Hull—Thomas Jenner—Robert Lenthal—Samuel Newman
—Thomas Thacher—Samuel Torrey—Peter  Thacher—Thomas
Paine —William Smilh—Jacob Norton —Josiah Bent, Jr. —John
C. Phillips —Joshua Emery, Jr. —Franklin P. Chapin.
Second Church: James Bayley —Simeon Williams.
Rev,"WilliamMorrell. —OfRev, William Morrell
but little  more is  known than is  recorded in  the first
chapter.  His scholarship and mental ability are fully-
shown in the elegant Latin poem upon JSTew England,
which he published after his return to England,  This
is republished with anEnglish translation by the Massa-
chusetts Historical Society, First Series, Vol. I, p, 125.
It is  unfortunate that no more is known of the suc-
ceeding ten years of Weymouthhistory.   The evidence
of the presence here of Rev. Mr. Barnard can hardly
be doubted, from the  fact that Rev. Thomas Prince,
from whom comes the statement, was a student in the
family of Rev.  Samuel Torrey, who came to Wey-
mouth in  1640,  at the age of eight years, and resided
there until his death in  1707.   He was for forty-two
years minister there,  and could hardly have failed to
be well informed in matters concerning its early history,
knowing personally, as he did, many of the  Gorges
Company.
The following is the extract fi'om " Prince's Annals
which has reference to the matter: —
" This year [1624] comes some addition to  the few
inhabitants  of Wessagusett, from  Weymouth, Eng.,
who are another sort of people than the  former  (MS.
 - 175 - 
158               SKETCH or WKYMOUTH.
letter), [and on whose account I conclude the town is
since  called  Weymouth].  Note. —They  have  the
Kev. Mr. Barnard their first  non-conformist minister,
who dies among them.  But whether he comes before
1630, or when he dies,  is  yet unknown (MS. letter)
nor do I anywhere find the least hint of him, but in the
manuscript letter taken from some of the oldest people
of Weymouth."
The latter clause would seemto afford ample basis for
the statement.
Rev. Joseph Hull (parentage unknown) was born
in Somersetshire, England, in 1594; matriculated at St.
Mary's  Hall,  Oxford,  May 12,  1612; took his  first
degree of A. B., Nov. 14, 1614; rector at  Northleigh,
Devon, April 4,  1621; resigned in  1632,  and sailed
for America, from Weymouth, Dorset, March 20, 1635;
settled  in  Weymouth Mass.,  July 8,  following; was
made freeman  on Sept.  2; received a  grant of land
there June 12, 1636, and was minister there at that time
the same year he was granted land in Hingham. In 1637
he was still in Weymouth, although he is mentioned on
the list of settlers  at Salem, and also as preaching at
Beverly.  He was deputy from Hingham in 1638, and
the  following  year.   Preached his  farewell  sermon
(probably at Weymouth) May 5, 1639.   Was at Barn-
stable the same month, where he received a grant of
land June 4.   Was made freeman in Plymouth Colony
Dec. 3, 1639.  In 1641 he accepted a call to Yarmouth,
for which he and his wife were excommunicated. May
1, but afterwards restored.   In 1641 he is  reported as
preaching at the Isle of Shoals.   In 1642 and 1643 he
was still  at  Barnstable or  vicinity,  as  seen from the
court records, being party in  several suits.   On May
10,  1643, he was recorded as  minister  at York, Me.,
having made his final removal from Plymouth Colony
 - 176 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              159
that year.   After some half a dozen years' residence
there, he is not heard of again until his return to Eng-
]     land in 1659, where he became rector at St.  Buryan,
I
Cornwall.  In 1G62 he was again recorded as minister
at Oyster River (Cocheco), IS^. H., having been ejected
from his English living undei" the St. Bartholomew Act.
He died at the Isle  of Shoals, Nov. 19,  1G65, having
been driven from Oyster River by the Quakers in 1662,
says Bishop.  He was a " man of worth and learning,
but given to change," and was involved in many diffi-
culties, perhaps from the force of circumstances.  He
was personally quite popular, his  repeated election  to
important offices being proof; but he was not a favorite
with the colonial authorities and the ministers; hence,
perhaps, the larger part of his troubles.   His first wife
(name not ascertained) was the mother of seven chil-
dren, born in England, where she died in 1633.
Children
:
I.   Joanna, born 1620 ;     married Jolm Bursley.
II.   Joseph, born 1622 ;    history unknown.
III.   Tristram, born 1624 ;   ship master and owner, also merchant
of Barnstable.
IV.  Temperance, born 1626.
V.  Elizabeth,  born  1628 ;      married  Capt.  John  Heard, of
Dover.
VI.  Grizzill or Griseli>a, born 1630.
VII.  Dorothy, born 1632,
Mr. Hull married  (2)  Agnes  (family  unknown),
born  1610, who survived her husband, and was the
mother ofthree children, born in America.
Children
:
VIII.   Benjamin (alias iJew&en), baptized in Hingham, March 4,
1638-9 ;     merchant of Portsmouth, N. H.
IX.  Naomi, baptized at Barnstable, March 22, 1639-40.
X.  RtJTH, baptized at Barnstable, May 9, 1641.
\_From materialsfurnished by Robert B. Hull, E^q., New York.']
 - 177 - 
160               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Rev. Thomas Jenner.—ISTot much is known ofhis
history.   He seems to have been in Roxbury as early as
1634-5, and was called to preach at Weymouthin 1636,
soon after Mr. Hull commenced his work there;  prob-
ably sent thither in the interest  of the churches and
authorities of the Bay Colony to retain the ascendency
for them.  He took the freeman's oath in December of
that year.   On the following Jan. 9,  a  council met to
" reconcile the differences between him and his people,
and had good success " ;  but that success seems to have
been short-lived, as difficulties  did not cease.   He re-
mained there  several  years.   During that time there
were also Mr. Hull, Mr. Robert Lenthal, and Mr. Sam-
uel Newman, all  ministers in Weymouth.  In May 13,
1640, Mr. Jenner was chosen deputy to the General
Court, but seems to have left town soon after and went
to Saco, Me.  He must have been a man of good char-
acter and abilities, or he could hardly have received the
support he had from the people who sustained him, the
ministers  of  Boston and vicinity,  and  the  colonial
authorities.
Rev. Robert Lenthal came to Weymouth in 1637,
upon the invitation of many of the inhabitants who had
been his parishioners in England, who probably judged
the time a favorable one to introduce their own man, in
consequence of the troubles  then existing.   He does
not seem to have been in favor with the authorities, for
he was forbidden ordination by the governor.  He was
suspected with a leaning in favor of the views of Mrs.
Hutchinson and her adherents, and in consequence was
brought before a council,  convened at the  house  of
Capt. Israel Stoughton, in Dorchester, Feb. 10, 1639,
the result of which left matters pretty much as it found
them,  Mr.  Lenthal  " being admonished."  Upon this
council were Rev. John Wilson and Rev. John Cotton,
 - 178 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             161
of the church in Boston; Rev. Zechariah Symmes, of
the Charlestown church;  Rev. John "VVeld  and Rev.
John Ehot, from Roxbury; Rev. Samuel IS^ewman, Rev.
Thomas Jenner, Mr. Edward Bates, afterwards ruhng
elder, and Mr. Stephen French, both from the church in
Weymouth; and one private individual, probably Capt.
Robert Keayne (a brother-in-law of Mr. Wilson), who
took notes of  the  proceedings, which have been pre-
served; also Capt. Stoughton, a magistrate and a prom-
inent member of the church in Dorchester.
Mr. Lenthal brought from England a good reputa-
tion as a minister, and seems to have done nothing here
worthy of censure.  In 1640 he removed to Newport,
R. I., where he taught school, and afterwards returned
to England.
Rev. Samuel IS'EWMAJf was called to the church in
Weymouth in 1639, where he remained four or five
years, during which time Mr. Hull, Mr. Jenner and Mr,
Lenthal left the town, and he remained master of the
situation, which appears not to have been altogether a
pleasant one, since he removed about the beginning of
1644-5 to Rehoboth, taking with him a large number of
his people.  Perhaps the selection of the name for the
new town, "the Lord hath  made room for us," may
furnish  a  hint  for  the  reason  of  his  removal  from
Weymouth.  He was born in Banbury, Oxfordshire,
England, May 10, 1602, and was the son of Ricliard
Newman; matriculate ofTrinity College, Oxford, March
3,  1620; obtained his  degree  of A. B. on the  17th
of October following, when he was said to  be of St.
Edmund's Hall.   In 1625 he had a very small benefice
at Midhope, a part of the parish of Ecclesfield, in the
West Riding of Yorkshire, to which his  successor was
presented ten years later.   He came to JSTew England,
where his name is found in 1636 among the members of
11
 - 179 - 
162               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
the church in Dorchester.  He came over in  the  ship
"James " from London in 1(335, and died in Rehoboth,
July 5,  1CG3.  He was a man of excellent character
and learning, a hard student, and an animatedpreacher,
ardently beloved and long lamented by his people.   He
compiled a concordance of the Bible, the third at that
time, and the best in the English language, and is  the
foundation of that now known as " Crudens."  " While
living he was defrauded of the profits  of his work, and
when dead he Avas  robbed even of the name."  He
married, Dec. 25,  1623,  at  Banbury, England, Sybil
,  born in that town, Nov. 21,  1604, and died in
Rehoboth, Nov. 2, 1672.
They had:
I.   Samuel, born in England, July 6,  1625; married, Dec. 6,
1659,  bathsheba  Chickering;   lived  in  Rehoboth; was
deacon of the church and also  deputy to the  General
Court several times.  He died in Rehoboth, Dec. 14, 1710.
II.   ANTIPA.S, born in England, Oct. 15, 1627; married, in  1658,
Elizabeth, daughter of Gov.  Winthrop.  He was minis-
ter at Wenham, Mass., and died in  October, 1672.   His
widow afterwards married a son of Gov. Endicott.
III.   Noah, born in England, Jan. 10, 1631 ;  marriedJoajma, daugh-
ter of Rev. Henrji and Margery (sister of Rev. Leonard
Hoar, third president of Harvard College)  Flint, minis-
ter  of Braintree ;    succeeded  his  father as  minister at
Rehoboth, in which office he died, April 16, 1678.
IV.  HoPESTiLL, bora in Weymouth, May 29, 1641 ;     married Rev.
George Shove, of Dorchester, afterwards third pastor of
the church at Taunton, Mass.  She died March 7,  1674.
[_TJiis family record is from the Reed Genealogy.'\
Rev. Thomas Thacher was the son of Rev. Peter
Thacher,  rector  of St.  Edmund's, Salisbury,  County
Wilts, England, bornMay 1, 1620, before his father was
inducted into office.  The family was probably originally
from Somersetshire.  He came to America in the ship
" James " from Southampton, landing in Boston, June 4,
 - 180 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             163
1635, with his uncle Anthony.  He made his prepara-
tory studies with Rev. Charles Chauncey, of Scituate,
afterwards  president  of  Harvard College.   He was
ordained as pastor over the church in Weymouth, Jan.
2,  1644-5, where he remained for about twenty years,
when he removed to Boston, and was installed Feb. 16,
1670, as the first  pastor of the Third Church (the Old
South), in which position he remained until  his  death,
Oct. 15, 1678.  He was one of the most eminent schol-
ars of his day,and, according to President Stiles, the best
Arabic scholar in the country, a faithful pastor, and an
interesting preacher.  He was also a skilful physician;
the author of a paper called " A Guide in the  Small-
Pox and Measles," the first  medical publication issued
in  this  country.   " He was a man of prayer and an
exemplary ministerial  character,"  but particularly op-
posed to  the Quakers;  and whenever he found any
of their books among his people he was careful to take
possession of them.  He married, first,  May 11, 1613,
Elizabeth, youngest daughter of Rev. Ralph Partridge,
of Duxbury, Mass., by whom he had: Thomas, Ralph
or  RoDOLPHUS,  Peter (born  in  Salem),  baptized
July 20, 1651 (graduate of Harvard College, 1671),
Patience, and Elizabteh, who married, fiYat, JSTathan-
iel Davenport, the gallant captain killed in the Narra-
gansett fight, Dec. 19, 1675.   She afterwards married,
in 1677, 8amuel Davis.  Mrs. Elizabeth Thacher died
June 2,  1661,  and soon after Rev. Thomas married,
1665,  Margaret, widow of Jacob Sheaffe, of Boston,
daughter of Henry  Webb, and removed to that city,
where he united with the First Church, Aug. 4, 1667
;
and when the Old South Church was formed, in conse-
quence of troubles growing out of the bringing of Mr.
Davenport from ISfew Haven, he was called to be its
pastor.
 - 181 - 
164               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
Rrv. Samuel Torkey, the  successor of Rev. Mr.
Thacher, in Weymouth, was the son of Capt. William
Torrey^ one of the  early settlers  of that  town, and
one of the most important names upon its  records, who
came to Weymouth from England with his family in
1640.   Samuel was at that time eight years old, having
been born in  the old country in  1(532.   He was edu-
cated  at  Harvard College,  entering  that  institution
about 1650, but did  not  gi^aduate  on account of the
lengthening of the term of study for  one year^ with
which thei'e was so much dissatisfaction that he, with
several others, among whom were Rev. Josiah Wins-
low,  Rev.  Ichabod Wiswell,  of Duxbury, agent for
Plymouth Colony at the court of England, Rev. Samuel
Waterman, of Fairfield, Rev. Mr. Brimsmead, of Marl-
borough, all afterwards menof distinction in the colonies^
left the college without taking their degrees.  The early
record of his ministry is somewhatobscure; buthe seems
to have first  preached at Hull, about 1656, where he
remained for several  years.   It  appears also that he
preached for a time in Weymouth previous to his ordi-
nation, in the absence of the pastor. Rev. Mr. Thacher.
He was ordained Feb. 14:,  1664-5, and continued as
pastor  of this  church until his death, which occurred
April 21, 1707, at the age of seventy-five years, fifty-
one of which he spent in the ministry.   He was mar-
ried, first. May 15, 1657, while residing at Hull, by Gov.
Bellingham, to 3Iary, daughter of Hon. Edward Raw-
son.   She died without issue,  Sept. 10, 1692; and he
married, second, July 30, 1699, Mary, widow of Wil-
liam Symmes, of Charlestown, who survived him until
March 12, 1721.  There were no children by this mar-
riage.
Mr. ToiTey had the reputation of being one of the
ablest ministers of his day.  He was of fine personal
appearance, with excellent and thoroughly trained intel-
 - 182 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             165
lectnal powers, and a dignity of deportment singularly
appropriate to his position as estimated by the require-
ments of that period,  at the  same time cheerful  and
agreeable in social intercourse.   He was a leader, rec-
ognized and acknowledged by the greatest minds of
his day.   Twice he was elected president of Harvai'd
College: first, in 1(381, to succeed President Oakes;   and
second, in 1684, upon the death of President Rogers,
but declined the position.   Thi'ee times he preached the
election  sermon before  the  General  Court, May 27,
1674, May 16,  1683, and May 29, 1695, all  of which
have been printed.   During his ministry he was much
sought after to assist in ordinations, at councils,  and
upon other public occasions; and it was during his term
of service that the old meeting-house  upon Burying
Hill,  having become from age and  decay unfit  for
further use, was taken down, and a new one erected in
1682 on the site of the present house of worship.
Rev. Petek Thacher was called to the pastorate of
the church in Weymouth after the death of Rev. Mr.
Torrej.  He was son of Thomas Thacher, Jr.^  and
grandson of Rev. Thomas Thacher, former pastor at
Weymouth;  born 1678;   graduated at Harvard College,
1696; and was ordained at Weymouth, Nov. 26, 1707.
He was a man of excellent abilities  and acquirements,
of fine personal address, and soon became very popular.
For a time his ministry gave promise of great useful-
ness and success;   but after a few years, it becoming
apparent that he might become colleague to Rev. Mr.
Webb, of the North Church, Boston, the happy rela-
tions heretofore existing with his people at Weymouth
became disturbed, and at the end of nearly twelve years
he resigned his charge,  and was dismissed in  1718,
although as it appears in an irregular way, for the man-
ner of it caused much ill feeling, not only in the church
 - 183 - 
166               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
at Weymouth, but also  in the IS'orth  Church, Boston,
over which he was installed, Jan. 28, 1723, as colleague
with Kev. Mr. Webb;    and so great was the dissatisfac-
tion in the latter church, that a disturbance occurred at
the installation which nearly prevented the service, and
resulted in the withdrawal of about fifty members, who
formed a new church.  Mr. Thacher remained pastor
of the IS^orth Church, Boston, until his death, March 1,
1739, at the age of sixty-one years, or, as another account
has it,  sixty-three years.   For a few years prior to his
settlement at Weymouth, Mr. Thacher taught school in
Hatfield, Mass.
Rev. Thomas Paink, who was  ordained  as  the
successor of Rev. Peter Thacher over the church in
Weymouth,was the son of James andBertMa( Thacher-
Paine, and grandson of ThomasPaine,whowas the first
of the family in this  country, and who settled in East-
ham, in 1639.  Hewas born in Yarmonth, Api'il 9, 1695,
O. S., in a house brought from England, and which is
yet standing.   He received a liberal education, gradu-
ating at Harvard College in 1717, having beenprepared
for that institution by Rev. Jonathan Russell, of Barn-
stable.   In college he applied himself vigorously to his
studies,  particularly  mathematics  and  astronomy,  in
which he excelled,  pursuing them much beyond  the
usual college course of that day.   In 1718 and 1719 he
published almanacs in his own name.  He calculated an
eclipse of the sun, which was to occur in  1806, which
was found to be in exact accord with later calculations.
He also gave special attention to the study of Latin,
Greek, Hebrew and French.   In  August, following
his graduation, he commenced the study of divinity with
Rev. Theophilus Barnard, of Andover, and after com-
pleting  his  theological studies  he accepted a call  to
settle  as pastor of the church at Weymouth, and was
 - 184 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             167
ordained Aug. 19, 1719.   Here he remained as long
as he continued in  the ministry,  but the unfortunate
financial condition of the parish, which had during his
administration  lost  a large  portion of its  support in
the  setting-off of the  second precinct  in 1723, ren-
dered his  stay not  always  pleasant.   Troubles were
constantly ai'ising from difficulty in raising his salary,
and this,  with  ill   health,  compelled  him in  1730 to
ask his  dismission, which, however, was not granted
until  April  15,  1734, when his  connection with the
church and parish was formally terminated.   During
the later years of his pastorate he. resided in Boston,
although attending to the duties of his office in Wey-
mouth,  After retiring from the ministry he engaged in
commercial pursuits and carried  on a large domestic
and foreign trade.   He was also extensively engaged in
h'on manufactures, having foundries in Abington and
Bridgewater.  In his business transactions he accumu-
lated  considerable  wealth, which was,  however,  lost
subsequently by the perils of war and the fluctuations
of the currency.  He married, April 21, 1721, Eunice,
daughter ofjRev. 8amuel and Abigail {^Willard-Treat,
of Eastham, and grand-daughter of Col. Kobert Treat,
for thirty years governor of Connecticut, when she was
but sixteen years of age, by Avhom he had thi'ee  sons
and two daughters, of whom the late Hon. Rohert Treat
JPaine, of national reputation, was one.   Mr. Paine was
probably  second in  point of talent and education to
none of his predecessors in the Weymouth pulpit, and
his kindness of disposition and gentleness of manner
were such that  had it  not been for  the unfortunate
financial position of the parish, he might probably have
remained there during his life.    He died  in  German-
town, Quincy, Mass., May 31, 1757, and was buried in
the Old North Cemetery, Weymouth.  His wife died
Oct. 17, 1747, aged forty-two years.
 - 185 - 
168               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
The following is the record of his family.
Children :  —
I.   Abigail, born  March  6,  1725; married Joseph Greenleaf,
Oct. 17, 1749 ;    died Jan. 15, 1808.
II.   Robert Treat, born Oct. 9,  1727; died Oct. 21, 1727.
III.   Thomas, born July 3, 1729 ;    died Aug. 19, 1730.
IV.  Robert Treat, born in  Boston, March 11,  1731 ;    married
Sally Cobb.
V.  Eunice,  born  May 11,  1733; died Feb. 2,  1803; unmar-
ried.
The first three children were probably born in Weymouth ;     the two
latter in Boston.
Key. "Wili-iam  Smith,  of Charlestown,  was  the
successor in  the  "Weymouth pulpit  [First Parish]  of
Rev. Thomas Paine.  He was the son of William and
Abigail  (Foide-Smith, born  in  Charlestown,  Mass.,
Jan. 29,  1706-7.  He was educated for the ministry,
graduating at Harvard College in 1725.  Hewas called
to the pastorate of the Weymouth church, and ordained
to that office on the first Wednesdayof December, 1734,
in which position he continued until his death, Sept. 17,
1783, in the seventy-seventh year of his  age,  and the
forty-ninth of his ministry.   The charm of his manner
and the conciliatoriness  of his  conduct soon won for
him the hearts of his people, which he retained to the
last.   " He was loved and respected by them, especially
the last generation, who grew up and were educated
under his  ministry."   The following inscriptions  are
copied from the gravestones in the Old N^orth Cemetery,
Weymouth, where Mr. and Mrs. Smith lie buried: —
" In memory of
|       Rev''. William Smith, pastor of |     the P' ch** of
C. in Weymouth |      Ob'.  Sepf. 17'^ 1783, iE.  77, in  |        the 49"^ ^ear
of his Ministry.  |       As a Divine he was eminent  |       As a Preacher ofthe
Gospel
I
eloquent and devotional in  life  |      he exhibited the Virtues
of the
I
Religion which he had taught |      in Death felt its  Supports &
I
closed a long & useful life  |     with hopes full of Immortality."
 - 186 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              169
"Here lies the body of Mrs.  |      Elizabeth Smith, the amiable and
I
pious Consort ofthe Rev'* William
|
Smith, pastorofthe first church
I
of Christ in Weymouth, who died |       October the 1"',  1775, in  the
I
54"" year of her Age."
" Thus write the voice from heaven.
Proclaims the virtuous dead are
ever blest.   Their works immortalize their
Names.  Their labors cease and here they rest
till that bright morn shall wake the
beauteous clay to bloom and sparkle in eternal day."
Mr. Smith married  (date  of publishment, Aug. 3,
1740) Elizaheth, daughter of Col. John and Elizaheth
{Norton-Qimicy, born in 1722.   [The Weymouth rec-
ords say Widow Elizabeth.']   They had the following
children:  —
I.   Mary, born in Weymouth, Dec. 9, 1741 ;    married, Nov. 25,
1762, Bkhard, son of John and Elizabeth {Pearse-Cranch,
born at Kingsbridge, Eng., November, 1726, and came
to Boston in the ship "Wilmington," in 1746.   He was
a distinguished man in  his State, having been deputy to
the General Court from Old Braintree, State senator and
judge  of the  Court of Common Pleas.   He resided in
Quincy.
II.   Abigail, born in Weymouth, Nov. 11, 1744; married, Oct.
25, 1764, John, son of Dea. John and Susanna {Boylston-
Adams, born in Braintree  (now Quinc}'), Oct. 9,  1735 ;
one of the founders of the Republic, than whom none was
more active  and influential ;      second President  of  the
United States.   They were the parents of John Quincy
Adams, the  illustrious  sixth  President  of  his  native
country.
III.   William, born in Weymouth, Dec. 1, 1746 ;    married, Jan.
3,  1779,  Martha  White.   [Wyman says  he  married
Catherine Louisa Salmon, probably a second marriage.]
IV.  Elizabeth, born in Weymouth, date not  on record, bap-
tized April 8, 1750; married, first  (date  of publication
Aug. 2.3,  1777), Bei). John Shaw, of Haverhill; second,
Jiev. S. Peabody.
The following notice appeared in the Boston Gazette
of Sept. 22, 1783: —
 - 187 - 
170               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
" On Wednesday last  departed this  life  at Weymouth, aged sev-
enty-seven, the  Reverend pious and venerable Mr. William Smith,
Pastor of the lirst church in that Town.  His remains were very respect-
fully interred on Saturday last."
Rev. Jacob ll^'oETOisr, the twelfth pastor of the First
Church at Weymouth, was the son of Samuel and Mary
{Porter-Norton, born in Abington, Mass., Feb. 12, 1764.
His father (son of Cai^t. John and JElizahetli {Tliaxter
Norton),  was  a  native of Hinghara,  Mass.,  and his
mother a descendant of Richard Pointer, who settled in
Weymouth in 1635.   He also was a graduate of Har-
vard College of the class of 1785, and soon after re-
ceived a call to settle as minister over the old church of
his maternal ancestor in Weymouth, and was ordained
Oct. 10, 1787, where he continued until July 10, 1824,
when he was dismissed.   This was his  only pastorate.
He was a man of fine  talents  and education  and a
scholar of high rank.   He published many controversial
works, and his discussions upon theological  subjects
were conducted with great ability and won for him a
high reputation.   The early years of his ministry were
prosperous, but during the latter portion of his stay with
that church his frequent doctrinal changes caused much
trouble and pei'plexity and finally terminated his con-
nection with it.    The point of greatest difference being
upon the question of baptism, changing from a strong
pedobaptist to as decided an opponent, in which move-
ment he failed to receive the sympathies and support
of his  people.   He afterwards removed to  Billerica,
where he died Jan. 17, 1858, at the age of ninety-four
years lacking twenty-six days, retaining his mental and
physical faculties to a wonderful degree until the last.
Alter retiring from the pastorate, he changed his relig-
ious views, first to the Unitarian, and later to the Uni-
versalist.   He was, when settled, an extreme Calvinist.
>
 - 188 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             171
He married, Feb.  11,  1789,  Elizaheth,  daughter  of
Micliard and Mary (^SmitJi-Crcmch (baptized in Wey-
mouth, 'NoY.  27,  1763,  by Rev. William Smith, her
grandfather), by whomhe had the following children: —
I.   Richard Cranch, born in Wej'mouth, March 12, 1790; a
graduate of Harvard College of 1808 ;    died at Alexan-
dria, D. C, Oct. 13,  1821.
II.   William Smith, born in  Weymouth, Dec. 29,  1791; a
graduate of Harvard College of 1812 ;     died at Ports-
mouth, N. H., July 19, 1827.
III.   Jacob Porter, born in  Wej'mouth, Dec. 16,  1793; mar-
ried,  Oct.  4,  1818,  Harriet,  daughter of  John and
Hannah {Patterson-Holbrooke born in Weymouth, April
26, 1796 ;     resided in Boston.
IV.  Edward, born in Weymouth, Oct. 24, 1795 ;     was captured
during the war with England, and died in  Dartmoor
Prison, Sept.  29, 1814.
V.  Thomas Boylston Adams, born  in  We3'month, Feb.  17,
1799 ;     died at Fayetteville, N. C, July 23, 1831.
VI.  Elizabeth, born in Weymouth, May 28, 1802.
VII.  Mary Cranch, born in Weymouth, May 19, 1804.
VIII.  Lucy Ann, born in Weymouth, May 13, 1806.
Mrs. ISTorton died in Weymouth, Jan. 25, 1811;    and
Mr. ^forton married, second  (date  of publishment in
Weymouth, Feb.  20,  1813), Hannah Bowers, 2d, of
Billerica.
Mr. I^orton was a tall, erect, spare man of dignified
appearance and pleasant address, and, notwithstanding
his change of religious belief, the neighboring clergy-
men esteemed him highly, although they deplored his
heresy.
Rev. Josiah Bent, Jr., of Milton, Mass., was the
successor of Mr. ISTorton, at AVeymouth.  He was born
in  Milton, Mass., Oct. 1,  1797; graduated at Harvard
University in 1822, and pursued his theological studies
at Princeton Seminary, which he entered soon after his
graduation at Cambridge.  He remained, however, at
 - 189 - 
172               SKETOn OF WEYMOUTH.
that  institution but about a year and left, continuing
his studies probably with a private teacher, as was for-
merly the custom.  In 1824 he received a call to settle
over the church and parish at Korth Weymouth, where
he was ordained Oct. 13.   He remained in this position
until Oct. 10, 1833, when he was dismissed on account
of trouble arising from the Masonic controversy.  He
soon  after  removed  to  Falmouth,  Mass.,  and was
installed as pastor over the church there Feb. 5, 1834,
and continued as such until his dismissal, Feb. 22, 1837.
On April 19, of the  same year, he was installed  as
pastor over the First Church of Amherst, Mass., where
he remained until his death Nov. 19, 1839.   He was a
remarkably successful pastor, and it is said, that in the
fifteen years of his ministry over his three parishes, not
less than five hundred persons were converted.
Upon the Weymouth Church records are found the
following  baptisms  of children  of Rev.  Josiah  and
Paulina Bent: —
I.   JosTAH, Oct. 2, 1825.
II.   Paulina Rice, June 1, 1829.
III.   Samuel Adams, Aug. 16, 1829.
IV.  Susan Sarah, Nov. 13, 1830.
V.  Henry K. W., April 1, 1832.
VI.  Thacher Tucker, Oct. 6, 1833.
(The following sketch of Eev. John Charles Phillips,  the fourteenth
pastor of the church at North Weymouth, Mass., was furnished by his
brother, Wendell Phillips, Esq.  Mr. Phillips was a descendant of one of
the oldest and most prominent families  in Massachusetts, and one tliat
has always borne an honorable record: —
" Rev. John Chahlks Phillips was born in Boston,
Mass., 'Nov. 15, 1807, and was the son of IIo7i.  John
Phillips, the first mayor of that city.   Hewas educated
at the Boston Public Latin School, and after passing a
year at  the military  academy of Capt. Parti'idge,  at
i^'orwich, Yt., was graduated at Harvard College with
 - 190 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             173
the  class  of 1826.   He studied  law with  the  Hon.
Samuel Hubbard, afterwards a judge of the  Supreme
Courtof Massachusetts.  After completing a full course
of legal study, his inclination drawing him strongly to
the ministry, he passed three years  at  the  Andover
Theological  Institution,  and was ordained, Dec.  18,
1833, over the I^orth Parish of Wevmouth.  There he
remained about four years, respected and beloved by
his  people.   He married, Dec. 24,  1833, Harriet, the
daughter of Francis Welch, of Boston.  On Dec. 26,
1839, he was installed over the First Congregational
Church, ofMethuen, Mass., and his pastorate there lasted
more than twenty years, when the state of his health
obliged him to  resign and he  was never afterwards
able to preach.
An extract from the resolutions pas^sed by the church
at that time shows how he was valued by his people:   —
'  Resolved, That the length of his ministry, the uniform kindness
of feeling between pastor and people, and between him and the people
of other denominations, with the general prosperity of this church and
society during that time, will indicate more clearly than language his
great worth as a man and the value of his labors and example as a
Christian minister.'
He returned to Boston and died there Dec. 5, 1878,
having nearly completed his seventy-first year.   Heleft
a  widow and four  children:  one son, Mr. John G.
Phillips;  Margaret  W., the  wife  of  A. B.  Hall;
Miriam W., the wife  of Dr.  W. H. Bollins; Anna
Dunn, unmarried.  His intellect  was keenly logical;
whatever truth he recognized he saw with marvellous
clearness, stated it with rare precision, and defended it
with quick, close argument, so  exhaustive as to  leave
little to be added.  United with this quality was a rare
wit, lavish in illustrations, prompt at retort, and dispel-
ling angry clouds with the lightning of a fine humor.
 - 191 - 
174               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH,
His preaching was conversational, he never thundered;
short, terse sentences full ofthought, epigrammatic; such
as lodged everything securely in memory, and so direct
as to reach every man's conscience; earnest, as of one
who believed all  he said and with a life  behind it  so
consistent that menwillingly listened and yielded cheer-
fully to its influence.   As a disputant he never hurried
or interrupted  his  opponent; was always serene and
self-poised, waiting patiently until the other had ceased
speaking, and ever ready to  state  his opponent's case
for him even  stronger  than  he  could  do it  himself.
His simple tastes made him prefer a settlement in  the
country, where he could  come into closer communion
and have a nearer and more direct influence  on his
hearers.   He liked plain  people  and the manners of
common life
;
always wishing to get close to his audi-
ence or companion.  But such was his native dignity
that  neither  playful  wit  nor  familiar  manners  ever
emboldened one to take any liberty with him.  He was
singularly free from ambition; anxious to he,  careless
what he seemed, and little  heeding men's judgments.
Intellectually  fearless   and  independent;  thoroughly
convinced that truth could always defend itself without
artificial aid,  and hence uniformly tolerant and liberal;
willing to waive dogmas if a man's purpose was right
and his face Zionward.
At a time when some abolitionists were accustomed
to interrupt Sunday services, he saw Stephen S. Foster
seated before him in the pews.  Mentioning the fact to
his people, he invited Mr. Foster to come to the pulpit
and give his testimony.   The fearless and eloquent agi-
tator rose to say, ^ When T am invited to a pulpit, it  is
evidence that I have no occasion to go there.'
Mr. PhilUps occasionally  asked clergymen of other
denominations to preach for him, saying, ^ If I cannot
hold my people with a hundred sermons a year against a
 - 192 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             175
fewfrom men of other views, they cannot be worth hold-
ing.'   His prayers revealed the depth and sincerity of
his nature.   There are very few lips  that God tonches
with fitness to utter for iis our prayers.   Only a life  of
peculiar simplicity and seriousness can give this grace.
Those who knelt with him at  the altar cannot fail  to
remember the simplicity and tenderness, the deep feel-
ing and trembling pathos of his prayers, which seemed
to lift  us into the very presence of God; and one was
sure that he who offered them must stand with familiar
love at the very feet of the Father.
'  Thrice blest whose lives are faithful praj'ers,
Whose lives in higher love endure ;
'
What souls possess themselves so pure,
Or is their blessedness like theirs ? '
"
Rev. Joshua Emery,  Jr., the  successor  of Rev.
John C. Phillips in the  pulpit of the First Church of
Weymouth,was the son oiJoshua and Elizabeth ( Welch-
Emery, born in  Newburyport, Mass., Aug. 5,  1807;
was fitted  for college at Phillips Academy, Andover;
graduated at Amherst College in  1831, and pursued
his theological studies at Andover Seminary, from which
he graduated in 1834.  He was ordained as pastor over
the  Orthodox  Church at  Fitchburg, Mass., May 13,
1835, where he remained but a short time, when he was
called to the First Church at Weymouth, over which he
was installed Jan. 25, 1838, and relieved from active ser-
vice at his own request, Oct. 22, 1873, feeling the burden
of years and the duties of his ofiice to be too great for
his strength.   The remainder of his life  was spent in
quiet  retirement.   He died  April  24,  1882,  in  his
seventy-sixth year, at the residence of his son Charles
F,, in Kansas City, Mo., and his remains have since been
removed for burial to Boxford, Mass.
" In his home life he was the kindest of fathers, and
 - 193 - 
176               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
his spiritual life was such as to exert an influence for
good, not easily forgotten, on all  with whom he asso-
ciated.   Before his death and for the greater part of
his retired life  he was with his  children,  and he died
knowing that all of his children were church members.
I shall never forget the Sabbath previous to his death.
I  was with  him, and the  day was spent mostly  in
prayer and singing, in  which, though very weak, he
joined, and expressed himself as being so happy, as he
should ^soon see Jesus.'"  In person he was above the
medium height, slenderly built,  but of very erect car-
riage  and brisk  movement, thin  of feature,  with an
aquiline nose, somewhat prominent, and of a pleasing
countenance.  He was highly valued as an associate and
friend by his neighbors in the ministry.   To strangers
he had sometimes the appearance of reserve and aus-
terity, but upon acquaintance he was found to be very
genial  and agreeable.    He was forward  in  all  the
benevolent  enterprises  of  the  day,  and  diligently
labored to promote their interests.   He married. May
19, 1835, Harriet, daughter of Jacob and Lucy (^Man-
niiig-Peahody,  by whom he  had the  following  chil-
dren: —
I.    Harriet Pearody, born in Fitchburg, 3w\y 23, 1836.
II.   Joshua, born in North Weymouth, June 1,  18-10 ;   a boot and
shoe merchant, residing in Chicago.
III.   Charles Francis, born in North Weymouth, March 10, 1849
;
a boot and shoe merchant residing in Kansas City, Mo.
IV.  Margaret, born in North Weymouth, Sept.  2,  1850,  and
died there, Sept. 1, 18i2.
Hariiet P. is married and yet living.
E,i5V. Franklin Perry Ciiapin, the present pastor
of the  First Church in Weymouth, and the sixteenth
since its organization, son o£ Ebenezer and Sarah (JRoh-
inson-Ghapin, was born in  Gill,  Franklin Co., Mass.,
Aug. 14,  1827;  pursued his  preparatory  studies  at
 - 194 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              177
Shelburne Falls Academy, and graduated at Amherst
College in  1852.  He studied theology at the Bangor
Theological Seminary, fromwhich he graduated in 1857.
His first  settlement as  a minister of the gospel was
over the Congregational Chur-ch in Camden,Me., where
he was ordained 'Nov. 11, 1857, and where he remained
for about ten years, being dismissed Sept. 3, 1867.  Soon
after this he received a  call  from the Second Church,
East Street,  Amherst, Mass., which he accepted, and
was installed as its pastor, Jan. 21, 1868.  He remained
in this position for a little more than three years, when
ill  health compelled him to relinquish it,  and he was
dismissed March 27, 1871.  During the two succeeding
years he served as  superintendent of schools of that
town, at the end of which time he received a call from
the First  Church and Parish  of "Weymouth, Mass.,
which he accepted, and was installed as pastor, Oct. 22,
1873, which position he still retains.   He married, first,
Dec. 2,  1857, Sarah Sunmer, daughter of Acldi and
Margaret {Sumner-Wallace, born in  Hadley,  Mass.,
Sept.  2,  1830,  and died in Amherst, Mass., Jan. 22,
1868.
Children:  —
I.   Frank Sumner, born in Camden, Me., July 7,  1860.
II.   Charles Emmons, born in Camden, Me., March 3, 1862.
III.   Sarah Lodisa, born in Camden, Me., Nov. 21, 1863.
IV.  Edwin Robinson, born in Camden, Me., Aug. 29, 1865.
He married, second, Jan. 11, 1871, Margaret, daugh-
ter of Robert and EUzahetli S. {Pendleton-McFarlane,
born in Camden, Me.,  March 23,  1842, a missionary
among the Esquimaux in Labrador, who died in Wey-
mouth, Mass., Oct. 25, 1882.   Child: —
V.  Robert McFarlane, born in Weymouth, Oct. 5, 1877.
Rev. James Batley, the first pastor of the Second
Church in Weymouth, was born in Roxbury, Mass., in
12
 - 195 - 
178               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
1698.  He graduated at Harvard College in 1719, and
was ordained  at  South  Weymouth, Sept.  2G,  1723.
After his graduation, he appears to have lived in Ando-
ver for a time, where he taught school,  and probably
pursued at the same time his theological studies.   The
following entry is found upon the records of the First
Church, Andover, Mass. (now North Andover), under
date of Feb. 26,  1721-2: "Mr. James Bailey, school-
master,  and Sarah  Bayley,  wife  of  Mr. J.  Bailey,
removed to Weymouth."  He died Aug. 22, 1766, and
was buried in the old graveyard on Pleasant  Street.
His gravestone bears the following inscription:  —
"SIC TRANSIT GLORIA MUNDI."
"Here lies  interred    remains of    Rev. James Bailey, born at
Eoxbury, took his  1"' degree at  Harvard College  1719, ordained 1''
Pastor of y" 2^ church of Christ in Weymouth Sept. 26, 1723.   After
a lingering indisposition, departed this life  Aug. 22**,  1766, in    69"^
year of his  age in y^ firm,  supporting belief of those doctrines  of
grace which he had for y"" space of 43 years preached publickly and
from house to house.
The sweet remembrance of y° just,
Shall flourish when they sleep in dust."
The following is  from the Weymouth town records.
Children of Rev. James and Sarah Bayley:  —
James, born probably in Andover, Jan. 15, 1722.
Sarah, bora in Weymouth, April 27, 1724.
Elizabeth, »   ^^^^   Weymouth, July
22, 1725.
Mary,     )                         j         >            j    >
Joshua, born in Wejntnouth, Nov. 24, 1726.
Thomas, born in Weymouth, Oct. 10, 1728.
Samuel, born in Weymouth, March 27, 1730.
Deacon Nathaniel, born in Weymouth, Dec. 27, 1731.
Daniel, born in Weymouth, April 1,  1734.
Sarah, born in Weymouth, June 16, 1735.
John, born in Wej'mouth, Feb. 2, 1737.
Mary, born in Weymouth, Oct. 17,  1742.
Benjamin, born in Weymouth, Dec. 1, 1745.
I.
II.
III.
IV.
V.
VI.
VII.
VIII.
IX.
X.
XI.
XII.
XIII.
 - 196 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             179
Kev. SiMBOisr  Williams, the second pastor of the
Second Churchin Weymouth,Mass., wasbornin Easton,
Mass., in  1743;  graduated at N^ew Jersey College in
1765, and was ordained at South Weymouth, Oct. 26,
1768, his first and only pastorate, where he died. May
31, 1819, and was buried in the cemetery onMain Street,
with the following inscription upon his gravestone:  —
" This Monument is  erected in Memory of the Rev. Simeon Wil-
liams,  the 2'^  Pastor of the  South Church in  Weymouth.  He was
born in Easton, was graduated at N. J. College in 1765, was ordained
Oct. 26, 1768, & died May W, 1819, in the 76"^ year of his age and
the 51°' of his ministry.
Though earthly shepherds dwell in dust,
The aged and the young ;
The watchful eye in darkness closed,
And mute the instructive tongue,
The eternal Shepherd still survives,
New comfort to impart
;
His eyes still guide us, and his voice
Still animates our heart."
His wife, who died Aug. 10, 1823, aged seventy-four
years, lies buried by his side.
Rev. Simeon Williams was married (date of publish-
ment Sept. 1,  1770) to Mrs. Anna Crocker,  of Bast-
ham, Mass., by whom he had the following children: —
I.   Anna, born in Weymouth, Aug. 31, 1771.
II.   Sophia, born in Weymouth, Dec. 29,  1772.
III.   Sophia, born in Weymouth, Oct. 7, 1776.
rV".   Simeon, born in Weymouth, April 5, 1778.
V.  Betsey, born in Weymouth, July 16, 1780.
VI.  Joseph Crocker, born in Weymouth, Oct. 26,  1783.
VII.  Thomas, born in Weymouth, March 11, 1787.
 - 197 - 
180               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
CHAPTER XI.
THE PHYSICIANS OF WEYMOUTH.^
Early Medical History—Salisbury —Nicholas Byram—Thomas Thacher
—Nathaniel  "White —James  Hayward —Benjamin  Richards —
Daniel French —Lazarus Andrews Beale —Cotton  Tufts —James
Torrey —Thomas Vinson—James Lovell —Noah Fifield—Apple-
ton Howe—Jacob Richards —David Torrey—Timothy Gordon—
Joseph Dorr—Ebenezer Turell Learned—Hervey Eliphaz Weston
—George Fordyce Fifield —Charles Coffran —Daniel Lewis Gibbens
—Josiah  Ball —Ira  H.  Perry —Ephraim  Lewis Warren —John
Henry Gilbert —George Wyman Fay—William Cranch Bond Fifield
—I^emuel  Fuller —Charles  Carroll  Tower—Joseph  Corlieu —
Francis Flint Forsaith —Oliver Perry Piper—Moses ReubenGreely
—Granville  Wilson Tinkham —Roscoe  Ellsworth  Brown—John
Chisholm Eraser —William Abram Drake —Joseph Porter IJodg-
don —Norton Quincy Tirrell —William Fales  Hathaway—Judson
L. Beck—Mrs. Dr. Tuck—Mrs. Dr. Tirzah E. Goodwin.
The old settlement ofWessagusset claims priority,
as far as I can ascertain, as to the presence of a physi-
cian, over any place in ]^ew England except Plymouth.
Certain  difficulties  are  encountered in  obtaining  the
early medical history of any community, especially if
that history dates back near the first  settlement of the
country.  One of these is  the fact that, at  that early
date, the practice of medicine was not on so recognized
a basis as at the present time.   There were no medical
schools or associations in the country, and each doctor
'  This chapter, covering an outline of  the medical profession of the
town with brief biographical sketches of its various members, who have,
as far as has been ascertained, lived here, has been prepared wiih great
care and much labor by Francis Fhnt Forsaith, M. D., a physician of
more than twenty years' standing in the town, and is  a valuable addition
to the sketch.
 - 198 - 
SKETCH OF AVETMOUTH.               181
was isolated and independent.  There was no author-
ized power for conferring degrees, and any one, however
incompetent, might assume the title Dr., with no author-
ity but his own, and be recognized as such to a certain
extent.
Athird reason is because at that early date the cler-
ical and medical professions were occasionally united in
the same individual, and this  person would usually be
recognized as a minister rather than a doctor, so that
his name would not appear in the annals as a physi-
cian.
Cotton Mather (Mag., I.,  p. 428, 2d ed. Lond., 1702)
says:  "It is well known that until two hundred years
ago,  physic  in  England was no  profession distinct
from divinity."   He also says: "Ever since the days of
Luke, the evangelist, skill in physic has been frequently
professed and practised by persons whose most declared
business was the study of divinity.   But I suppose the
greatest frequency of this angelical conjunction has been
seen in  those parts  of America where they are mostly
the poor to whom the gospel is  preached by pastors
whose compassion to them in their poverty invites them
to supply the want of abler physicians."
These things and the general indefiniteness incident
to a new settlement render the early history of the med-
ical,  as  of every other profession,  somewhat unsatis-
factory.
Thomas "Weston's  company  of  " merchant adven-
turers "  set  sail from Old England, April, A. D. 1622,
under  charge  of  Weston's  brother-in-law,  Richard
Green.  Amongthem was a surgeon, a Mr. Salisbury,
This Salisbury was the first representative of the medi-
cal profession in Weymouth, and possibly the first  in
!N'ew England, although mention is  made in the " An-
nals " of Dr. Samuel Fuller of Plymouth, who wrote to
Governor Bradford, June 28, 1630, that at the request
 - 199 - 
182               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
of Mr. Warham, he " had been to  Mattapan and let
some twenty of these people blood."  Concerning the
character  of  this  man and his  success in  his  pro-
fession, history gives us no information, as far as I am
aware, nor whether, when the  settlement was tempo-
rarily  broken up, he followed  Sanders to  Maine or
Standish  to  Plymouth.   Neither  does  it  inform  us
whether, during the times of Blackstone, Morrell, Hull,
Jenner, Lenthal  and ISTewman, up to  the  date  when
Byram came, there was any physician in  the colony.
It is  highly probable, however, that there was, or else
that the office of physician was assumed by some of the
reverend gentlemen above mentioned.
^Nicholas Byram, a physician, came to Weymouth in
1638.  He remained here  twenty-four years, and  in
1662 removed, with his  family, to ]3ridgewater, being
one of the first  settlers of that town, and with his wife
among the first members of the church there formed.
Dr. Byram, according to family tradition, was the son
of an English gentleman of the county of Kent, who
removed to Ireland about the time JSTicholas was born.
His father sent him, at the age of sixteen, to visit his
friends in England, in charge of a supposed friend who
betrayed his trust, robbed him of his money, and sent
him to the West Indies, where he was sold to service to
pay for  his  passage.  After his term of service had
expired he made his way to  'New England and set-
tled  in Weymouth, finally  removing, as  aforesaid, to
3ridgewater.
He married Susannah, daughter of AhraTiam Shaw,
of Dedham, and wasthe father of eight children, at least
six ofwhom were born in Weymouth, viz. :  —
I.   Nicholas.
II.   Abigail, who married Thomas Whitman.
JII.   Deliverance, who married John Porter.
i
 - 200 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              183
IV.  Experience, who married John Willis.
V.  Susannah, who married Samuel Edson.
VI.  Mary, who married Samuel Leach.
Hedied in 1727.
Rev. Thomas Thachee.—Contemporary with Dr.
Byram for  seventeen  years  was  the  Rev.  Thomas
Thacher.  This manwas the son of Hev. Peter ThacJm^,
rector of St. Edmunds, Salisbury, in County Wilts, Eng-
land.   He was born May 1, 1620, and came over with
his uncle Anthony, in the " James," from Southampton,
arriving in Boston, June 4, 1635.  He then went to Ips-
wich with his uncle and other friends, and, in order to
avoid the peril of a return to England in August of the
same year, —on which voyage all but Anthony and his
wife were lost, —he was put under the direction of the
Rev. Charles Chauncy, of Scituate, who prepared him
for his profession " with great diligence," as it  is said.
This Rev. Charles Chauncy, was equally celebrated
as a divine and a physician, and Mr. Thacher received
instruction in both these professions.   His good sense,
united with a general acquaintance with the  science of
the day, acquired for him a great reputation as a physi-
cian, and, to complete his honors, Mather asserts  that
he " composed a Hebrew Lexicon, so compressed that
within one sheet of paper he had given every consider-
able word in the language."
He married.  May 11,  1643,  Elizabeth,  youngest
daughter of Rev. Ralph Partridge, of  Duxbury, and
was settled over the church at Weymouth, as successor
to Rev. Samuel Newman, Jan. 2, 1615.  He spent about
twenty years in Weymouth, and then removed to Bos-
ton and joined the First Church there, Aug. 4, 1667.
Mr. Thacher was installed as pastor over what is now
the Old South Church, Feb. 16, 1670, andis said to have
been the first minister ordained in America.  He is said
 - 201 - 
184               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
also to have been the author of the first  medical work
ever published in  this country, —a tract  entitled "A
Brief Guide to the Common People, in the Small-Pox
and Measles," first published in Boston in 1677, and a
second edition in 1702.
Cotton Mather informs us that having preached for
his father, he visited a sick person after  going out of
the assembly, whereby he got some harm, which turned
into  a fever  of  which he died Oct.  15,  1678,  aged
fifty-eight years.
Dr. ]^ATHA3sriEL White was born in 1690,^ accord-
ing  to  Alden's Early  History  of  the  Medical  Pro-
fession, in  the county of Norfolk, Mass.,  and to the
inscription  on his  tombstone,  or  in  1701,  as  stated
by Yinton, in his " White Genealogy."  He graduated
from Harvard College in  1725,  and was a  man of
much talent and eminent in  his  profession, although
a very eccentric person.  It is  asserted that when he
was summoned to a patient in stormy weather, he fre-
quently would refuse to go, saying, " the weather was
not fit for any oneto go out" ;  but the messenger on his
return usually found him, with his saddle-hags, at the
bedside ofhis patient.   Heresided on the corner ofMain
and Pond Streets, the site  of the house formerly occu-
pied by Dr. Greeley, dentist.   He married his first wife,
SarahLovell, April 27, 1726, who died March 15, 1733;
'Dr. Nathaniel White, the son of Deacon Thomas and Mary (White.
White, was horn in  Weymouth, Sept.  4, 1701.   His mother was the
daughter of James and Sarah (Baker-White, of Dorchester, and grand-
daughter of Edward White, the first of the name who settled in that town.
As Deacon Thomas and Mary White were not married until 1700 and
he then only twenty-seven years old, Nathaniel could not have been born
earlier than the above date, and the date upon the gravestone is evidently
an error.   His age upon the  town records  is  put down as fifty-eight.
These facts agree with the record of Col. Asa White, one of the family
born in 1736. —Weymouth Historical Society Papers.
 - 202 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              185
his second, Buth Holbrooh, April 15, 1742,whodied May,
1752, aged thirty-seven; his third wife,  Widow Abigail
Keith, of Bridgewater, July 1,  1755.  He was the son
of Deacon Thomas White, grandson of EbenezerWhite,
great-grandson of Thomas White, who was admitted a
freeman  of Massachusetts  colony, March 3,  1635-6,
being then and previously an inhabitant of Weymouth
and a member of the church."
In the old town records may be seen the following
:
"March 13,  1727,  Voted,  at  the  aforesaid  meeting
whether the Town will give to Doctor White five acres
of land below     hill,  that was formerly granted to
John Vinson, provided the said Doctor White continues
in the town of Weymouth and in the practice of physic,
and in  case he shall  remove out of town, said White
to  purchase  said land,  or  to  return  it  to the  Town
again "   It passed in the affirmative.
WTiere the first  and third wives of Dr. White lie
buried I do not know, but in the Highland Cemetery,
South Weymouth, on a quaint, old moss-covered, double
slate headstone, the following inscription is  still  to  be
made out, although some of the words are imperfect:  —
" Here lies  inter*  y"  Body of
Doct'  Nathaniel White who de-
parted this life Nov. 23* 1758, in
y' eS"" year  of his age.
Here lies  Buried j"  Body of
Mrs. Ruth White, wife  to  Doc.
Nathaniel White, who died 1752,
in y"* 37'" Year of Her Age.
Thousands of journeys Night & Day
I've travelled weary on y^ way
to heal the Sick but now I've gone
A journey never to return."
On a headstone adjoining is the inscription: —
"Here Lies Buried y° Body of Asa, son of Dr. Nathaniel White
& Ruth his wife who Died 1747, Aged 8 months 4 days."
Children of Dr. Nathaniel and Sarah:  —
 - 203 - 
186               SKETCH OF WErMOUTH.
I.   Abner, born in "Weymouth, Jan. 9, 1727; died 1741.
II.   Aletiiea, born in Weymouth, June 2,  1728.
III.   Asa, born in "Weymouth, Dec. 22, 1729 ;    died 1730.
IV.  Tamar, born in "Weymouth, Jan. 19, 1731.
Children of Dr. l^athaniel and Ruth: —
"V.    Abner, born in "Weymouth, Dec. 21, 1742.
"VI.   Asa, born in Weymouth ;     died 1747, aged 8 months.
VII.  Thomas, born in Weymouth; died March 18, 1766, aged 14
years.
And perhaps others.
Dr. James Hayward.—For most of the information
I have in  regard to this physician, I acknowledge my
indebtedness to the secretary of the Weymouth Histori-
cal  Society, who has kindly furnished me with many
facts taken in part from the  Suffolk  probate  records
and in part from the Weymouth town records.   Still
the knowledge in regard to him is  exceedingly meagre,
not even comprising the date of his birth or his death.
From the Suffolk record, book 34, page 282, we are
informed that I^fehemiah Hayward, of Hingham, tailor,
was appointed  to  administer  upon the estate  of his
brother  James  Hayward, physician,  of  Weymouth,
March 27, 1739.  From page 536, same book, it appears
that the estate of Dr. James Hayward, of Weymouth,
was valued at £241 lis. 4cZ., January, 1739; Jeremiah
Beal, Samuel French, Thomas Waterman, appraisers. In
book 35, page 125, the account of I^^ehemiah Hayward
in the settlement of his brother's estate is  given as fol-
lows: Inventory amount £253 16s. 4:d.;  bills  paid and
allowed £32 5s.  8d.,  Sept.  3,  1740.   By the  same
record it  appears, book 37, page 487, that James Hay-
ward, minor, aged about eighteen yeai s, son of James
Hayward, physician, of Weymouth, chooses Benjamin
Wesson, of Stoneham, Middlesex County, Massachu-
setts, housewright, for his guardian over property left
\
 - 204 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             187
him by his father, April 22, 1745; George Craddock,
John Payne, witnesses.
We are  informed by the Weymouth records  that
Dr. James Hayward was pubhshed Aug. 3,  1738, to
Sarah Green;   also, that Lydia, daughter of James and
Elizabeth Hayward, was born Feb. 24, 1736.  These
facts seem to be established by the records, that Dr.
Hayward was a citizen of Weymouth, in comfortable
circumstances, that he married two wives, that he had
two children, a boy and a girl, and that he died previous
to 1739.
Dr. Benjamin Richards, the same person who is
spoken of in the genealogy of the Richards family as
Ephraim Richards,  was  the  son  of  Benjamin and
Joanna {Hunt-Ricliards, born in Weymouth, Aug. 12,
1714.   He settled  in  practice  in  JSTorth  Weymouth.
He married Abigail, daughter of JEphraim and Sarah
{Bass-Tliayer,  Braintree,  Nov. 21, 1734.  They had
ten children, as follows:  —
I.   Benjamin, born Nov. 29, 1735 ;    died the same day.
II.   Benjamin, born Feb. 21, 1737 ;    died the same day.
III.   Benjamin, born Dec. 24, 1739 ;    died in the army, 1757.
IV.  Ephkaim, born Oct. 25, 1740.
V.  Abigail, born Nov. 17, 1742.
VI.  Sarah, born Oct. 13, 1744.
VII.  Joanna, born Sept. 26, 1746.
VIII.  PeterHunt,born Jan. 13, 1749 ;   waskilled on board a priva-
teer, 1778.
IX.  Ruth, born Aug. 20, 1750 ;    died Sept. 26, 1833.
X.  Mart, born April 9, 1753.
Dr. Richards is said to have been an eminent prac-
titioner in his day, especially in the throat distemper,
which, with the bloody flux, were the fatal epidemics,
and prevailed with uncommon mortality in the years
1746, 1747, 1748, 1749.  One of his daughters married
 - 205 - 
188                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Rev. Jonathan French, who was born in  Braintree,
Jan. 30, 1740.  Dr. Richards died Jan. 25, 1755, at the
age of forty-one.
Dr. Da"niel French.—It is  believed, on good au-
thority, that Dr. French was born in Hingham about the
year 1720,^ although the precise date cannot be estab-
lished.   The town records show his  intention  of mar-
riage,  Oct.  28,  1744.   He married Mary Lane, of
Hingham, and had nine children.
Children: —
I.   Zethan, born ia Weymouth, Aug. 4, 1745.
II.   Betty, baptized  in  We3'mouth, Dec.  18,  1748 ;    married
Icliabod Pratt, June 5, 1773.
III.   Joel,  baptized  in  Weymouth, Nov.  25,  1750;  married
Elizabeth Hobart, Sept. 20, 1793.
IV.  Samuel, born in Weymouth, Dec. 12, 1753.
V.  Bela, born in Weymouth, June 1, 1755.
VI.  Mary, born in Weymouth, June 7, 1758.
VII.  Lydia, born in Weymouth, Feb. 19, 1761.
VIII.  Cecilia, bom in Weymouth, April 7, 1763.
IX.  Stephen, born in Weymouth, Sept. 30, 1765.
He lived in East Weymouth, on the site of the house
recently occupied by the late Samuel French, his grand-
son, on Commercial Street, nearly opposite the foot of
Grant Street.   The present building is  the third  one
built on the same spot.   The death of the doctor, ac-
'Dr. Daniel French, son of Stephen and Abigail (Beale-French, was
born in Hingham,date not on record.  He was grandson of Capt. Stephen
French, who was one of the most prominent men of  Weymouth, and
resided on what, until quite recently, was known as the Tufts place, on
the corner of East and Green Streets, NorthWeymouth, and great-grand-
son of Stephen French, the first settler of the name in that town.  The
family estate of the father of Dr. Daniel was upon both sides of the town
line of Weymouth and Hingham, and he probably had dwellings in both
towns; hence the  confusion in the records.   He was published Nov.
30, 1740, to Ruth Stowell, of  Hingham, who died Aug. 6, 1742, without
issue.   He afterwards married Mary Lane, Jan. 3, 1745.
 - 206 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              189
cording to  reliable  private  record, occurred in  1775,
suddenly, while he was crossing a field  near his house
to visit a patient, at the age of about fifty-five.
Dr.  Lazakus  Andrews Beale.—Dr. Ebenezer
Alden, in his History of the Medical Profession in I^^or-
folk County, says, " The next physician in Weymouth,
after Kev. Mr. Thacher, of whomany tradition remains,
was Dr. Beale.  He is said to have resided in the i^^orth
Parish, near the Hingham line."   Dr. Alden evidently
did not have any definite knowledge of him, and what
little  knowledge he did have seems to have been ob-
tained from Dr. Richards—Benjamin probably—and
was traditional.
There was a Dr. Lazarus Beale, born probably about
1753, son of Deacon Lazarus Beale and Ruth, his wife,
grandson of Lazarus and Susanna Beale, great-grand-
son  of Jeremiah Beale  and great-great-grandson of
John, the progenitor of the family in America.
Competent authority —Solomon Lincoln and George
Lincoln —asserts that Dr. Beale, at one time, " lived in
IsTewton, where hemarriedLydia Wheat.  It is thought
he afterwards moved to Hingham, as the records of that
town show that two children were there born to him,
viz. :  —
I.   Martha, born July 10,  1765.
II.   Daniel, born Sept. 27,  1767.
" The '  Cohasset Precinct '  records establish the birth
ofthese and also of
Alpheus, born June 1, 1770.
LusiTANUs, born Sept. 15, 1772."
It is the opinion of Solomon J. Beale, Esq., that after
the birth of the last  child he removed to Weymouth
from  Cohasset.  I^othing very definite can be estab-
lished concerning him.
 - 207 - 
190               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Dr. Richards asserts that he sustained a " good char-
acter as a citizen and physician."
It will be remembered that the house once occupied
by Lazarus Beale, grandfather of the present Elias S.
Beals, Esq., is  still  standing (1884) near the junction
of Commercial and Essex Streets, ]!^^orth Weymouth,
and is now owned and, till  recently, was occupied by
Mr. Martin Goodman.
The town records indicate the death of Lazarus A.
Beale, Nov. 23, 1822, aged sixty-nine years.^
Dr. Cotton"  Tctts.—Hon. Cotton Tufts,  A. M.,
M. D., M. M. S.,  A. A. S., was born in Medford, Mass.,
May 31, 1731.  Peter Tufts, his great-grandfather was
one of the  first  settlers  of that town,  and was its
representative at the General Court about 1684.  He
had a son.  Captain Peter, whose son Simon was born
Jan. 31, 1700.   This son received a liberal education,
graduating from  Harvard  College in  1724,  studied
medicine and practised in his native town, where heheld
several positions of trust.
This  Dr. Simon Tufts had two sons, —Dr. Simon
Tufts, Jr., who succeeded to his father's practice and
occupied the old homestead; and Dr. Cotton Tufts, the
subject of this sketch.  In the fourteenth year of his age,
Cotton was admitted a member of Harvard College,
graduated in 1749, and took his second degree in 1752.
After graduation he taught school successfully, for a
'  The above record is  evidently greatly confused.  If Lazarus A. was
born, as his deatli record asserts, in 1753, he could not have been the
father of the children attributed to him in Hingham and Cohasset.  By
the Weymouth record he was married Oct. 29, 1776, to Bethiah Lewis
who died Aug. 5, 1809, aged forty-nineyears.   Children: —
1.   Lydia, born in Weymouth, June 10, 1782.
11.   Elizabeth, born in Weymouth, July 11, 1785.
III.   Lewis, born in Weymouth, Oct. 13, 1793.
IV.  Elias, born in  Weymouth, Nov. 13, 1796.
 - 208 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.             191
time, and then turned his attention to the stndj of medi-
cine, which he pursued under the direction of his  elder
brother,   lie graduated in due course, and shortly after-
wards settled in Weymouth.  As a practitioner of med-
icine he was faithful,  considerate, courteous, kind and
sympathetic.  His professional labors in his early and
meridian life were extended and exacting.   They were
not confined to his  own immediate territory, but were
sought for and freely given to those at a distance.   He
labored for the spiritual  as well as the temporal good
of his patients.   Even in his more advanced age, while
engrossed with other cares  and duties, he still  found
time to aid his professional brethren in difficult  cases
and to give a kind word of advice and cheer to the
younger physicians around him.  He was one of the
original members of the Massachusetts Medical Society,
was chosen vice-president and in  due course of time
became president,  which office he held from 1787 to
1793, discharging the duties of that office in an efficient
and acceptable manner.  In social life  he was distin-
guished by urbanity of manner and courteous address.
In conversation he was pleasant, interesting, and instruc-
tive.   In the domestic circle he was the pleasant com-
panion, the instructive friend, the kind husband and
father.    During  the  Revolutionary  war  his  ardor,
activity and zeal in the public service were conspicuous
on many occasions.
He was an exemplary Christian, and for more than
forty years was deacon of the Old ISTorth  Church in
Weymouth.  He was  one of the  trustees  of Derby
Academy, Hingham, and for several years president of
the board.  He was president of a society for moral
reform, —probably a temperance organization, —then
existing.   He was an honored member of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences.
He was for many years State senator,  and in that
 - 209 - 
192               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
position  was firm,  patriotic  and influential.   He was
appointed a member of the convention for adopting the
Constitution of the United States.   As was remarked
by the  Rev. Jacob Norton, his  pastor, in his  funeral
sermon, " he was a man of general erudition and attain-
ment to  no inconsiderable eminence.  His researches
were various  and extended, judicious  and  accurate.
He was an ardent Federalist, and happy had it  been
for our country in times past had its citizens in general
been Federalists, or, to use a more appropriate term,
Federal Republicans of this description."
'No physician ever settled in Weymouth acquired a
more extended and enviable reputation than Dr. Cotton
Tufts.  Aman of strong character by nature, cultured
and educated under the most refining influences,  his
power was felt by all the community in which he dwelt.
He stood before them the urbane, old-school gentle-
man, the type of which has long since died out from
among us, he being, perhaps, its latest representative.
Like a faithful servant, his duties all  done, he rests
from his labors, and his woi-ks do follow him.
He died  Dec. 8,  1815, in the  eighty-fifth  year  of
his  age.  His residence was very near the  spot  on
which now stands the house of the Hon. James Hum-
phrey, near the depot. North Weymouth.  He married,
first,  Dec. 2,  1755, Lucy Quincy, of Braintree  (now
Quincy), by whom he had one child: —
Cotton, born in Wej'raouth, Aug. i, 1752.
Mrs. Lucy Tufts died Oct. 30,  1783, aet.  56 years;
and Oct. 22,  1789,  Dr. Tufts married, second,  Mrs.
Susanna Warner, of Gloucester.
Dr. James Torkey was born in Ashford, Conn., in
1756.  His first employment was tanning of hides.   He
afterwards studied medicine, and began its  practice in
 - 210 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             193
Lebanon, Conn.  He then removed to T^antucket, and
continued to practise in his profession there.   There he
married Deborah Fitch, daughter of Gforham Fitch, of
JSTantucket.   He served six weeks as surgeon's mate in
the war of the Revokition.  He was also at one time
surgeon of the Second Regiment, First Brigade, First
Division, Massachusetts Militia.   His commission was
dated  Sept.  3,  1800.   His  discharge  bore  the  date
June 16, 1812.
He removed to South Weymouth in the year 1783,
and settled on a spot at or near the corner of Pleasant
and Union Streets.
He is described        small man, with a dark com-
plexion, hazel eyes, and a very strong hand to pull out
teeth."   Dr. Torrey was the seventh of seven sons, and
like  all  seventh sons, in  those days, was supposed to
have peculiar, not to say miraculous, powers in curing
" king's evil," by the laying  on of hands or " touch,"
though in  his latter days he entirely discontinued this
kind of treatment.   He was, however, particularly suc-
cessful, as it is said, in this disease and also in " throat-
ail,"  and had patients from Boston and other places,
who boarded in his family to receive treatment.
For more than thirty years he was the only physician
in South Weymouth, where he acquired a fair business.
He died Dec. 16, 1817, aged sixty-one years.   He left
seven children:  —
^
I.   James Gorham, born in Lebanon, Conn., Jan. 17,  1779,
who married Susan White.
II.   Sarah, born in Nantucket, Aug. 23, 1783,  who married
Elijah Bates.
'Dr. James Torrey was the son of James and Sarah {Nash-Torrey
,
born in Ashford, Conn., after the removal of his father from Abington,
Mass.  He was the son of Deacon Micajah and Sarah Torrey, grand-
son of  Deacon Micajah and Susanna Torrey,  and great-grandson  of
Captain William Torrey, who settled in Weymouth in 1640, and becam
one of its  most distinguished citizens.   He was the celebrated  " clerk
of the deputies " for many years.
 - 211 - 
194               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
III.   Susan, born in  Weymouth, Nov. 10,  1785, who married
Amos Merritt.
IV.  Reuben (Rev.), born in  Weymouth, April 3,  1789, who
settled in Connecticut.
V.  NANcy, born in  Weymouth, Sept.  10,  1790, who married
^mos Merritt (his second wife).
VI.  LuciNDA, born in  Weymouth, June 4,  1793, who married
Edward Blanchard.
VII.   Lavinia, born in Weymouth, March 2.5,  1795, who married
Reuben Burrell.
VIII.  A boy, not named and not recorded.
Dr. Thomas Vinson^  was successor to Dr. Torrey
and for a time contemporary with him.  But few par-
ticulars in regard to him can be ascertained.   He was
born, June 8, 1756, and died probably about 1840.  He
lived in South Weymouth, on the spot now occupied by
Mr. Edward Rosenfelds' new house.  He was at  one
time colonel in the Revolutionary army.  He is  said  to
have been a learned man and acquired a large practice,
but eventually became dissipated.
Dr.  James Lovell^ was born Jan. 1,  1768.  He
lived in an ancient but, for his time, imposing house on
i^eck Street, ISTorth Weymouth,near the junction of this
'  Col. Thomas Vinson, son of John and Sarah (Colson-Vinson, was born
in Weymouth, June 8, 1756, and died Jan. 12, 1841, at the age of eighty-five
years.  He was the descendant of an old and prominent family in the town
which sprung from London and came here in the latter half of the sev-
enteenth century.  He wasa mathematician of no mean ability, and made
the calculations for almanacsfor several years.  He married, Jan. 27, 1782,
J?an>ja/i,dau. oiSumuelundElizabeth (Shaw-Holbi-ook^horn in Weymouth
in 1760, and died Nov. 28, 1788, aged twenty-eight years and six months.
Children: —
I.   Warren, born in Weymouth, Sept. or Oct. 5, 1782.
II.   Susanna, born in Weymouth, June 1, 1784.
III.   Betsey, born in Weymouth, Dec. 25, 1785.
IV.  Thomas Warren, born in Weymouth, Nov. 28, 1788.
* Dr. James Lovell was son of General Solomon and Hannah (Pittey-
Lovell, and a descendant of Robert Lovell, who came to Wej'moulh in
1635, with Rev. Joseph Hull.   He inherited his father's homestead and
one of the finest properties of that time in the town.
 - 212 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             195
street with Green Street.   He was born, lived and died
in this house, and his remains were buried in the family
tomb, which was demolished when the road was made
to Pilgrim Wharf some years since,  when they  were
removed to the old North Cemetery and finally placed
there in the family tomb.  He was the son of General
Solomon Lovell, the commander of the land forces in
the Penobscot expedition, whose original journal con-
stitutes the first  published document of the Weymouth
Historical Society.   He married, ISTov.  8,  1798, Widow
Winch, whose maiden name was Priscilla Ford.  He
entered Harvard College,  but before  completing the
course of study left to go " down East " to attend to a
vessel  belonging to his father.   He studied medicine
with Dr. Thaxter, of Hingham.  He did not enjoy its
practice or pursue it  to any great extent, as  he was
wealthy and was much engagedon his farm and in town
business.   He died April 8, 1820.  He had no child.
Dr. ISToAH FiFiELD was the son of JEhenezer  and
Mary {^Sanhom-Fifield, andwasborn at East Kingston,
!N; .   H., July 22, 1783.  He studied medicine under the
direction of his  uncle,  Dr. William Sanborn, of Fal-
mouth, Me., and afterwards pursued his  studies under
the care of Dr. ]!?^athan  McKingstry, a Scotch surgeon
of IN^ewburgh, Yt.   He attended medical lectures at
Boston, in 1804.   The next year, 1805, he commenced
the practice of medicine in Maine, but soon returned and
settled in Weymouth,June 12, 1806.  He was welcomed
cordially by the venerable Cotton Tufts, who took a
great interest in him, and advised and befriended him in
his youthful days.  He was for sixty years a physician
in this village of his adoption, and won for himself a
high character for ability.
Dr. Howe, his contemporary for many years, says of
him:    " As a citizen and a neighbor it  is  believed that
 - 213 - 
196               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
he sustained a character ahove reproach.   As a physi-
cian he brought to the aid of his patients a sound and
vigorous mind, well stored with professional knowledge
and an aptness in  the investigation  of disease which
rendered his opinions of great value to the sick and of
great weight with the members of his profession."   He
was a man of sound judgment, few words, and dignified
in  his  bearing.   He was successful in  his profession
pecuniarily, believing that the physician, like every other
person who depends for his  support upon his profes-
sional  or mechanical efforts,  is  worthy of a just and
honest remuneration  for  his  exertions,  and that  he
should not be defrauded of them in the one case more
than in the other.   He was earnestly engaged in the
temperance reform and labored for its  success.
He was admitted a fellow of the Massachusetts Medi-
cal Society in 1807, and was for several years one of its
councillors.  In his latter  days he relinquished entirely
his practice and resided  for a few years with his son in
Dorchester.  When quite  advanced in life,  he married
Hannah CrancJi Bond (date of publishment June 16,
1820), and they were the parents of three children: —
I.   Geokge Fordyce, born April, 1822 ;   died Nov. 15, 1846.
II.   Mary S., born March 27, 1824 ;   died Aug. 17, 1845.
III.   William C. B., born Aug. 27, 1828.
He died Oct. 21,  1867,  and was  buried from  the
old  church, where he used to  attend services, in  the
family lot  in the  village  cemetery, Weymouth, aged
eighty-four years.   His wife was born in Portland, Me.,
April 13, 1787, and died in Dorchester, Mass., March8,
lb70, aged eighty-two years and ten months, and was
buried by the side of her husband.
Hon. Dr. Appleton Howe, major-general Massa-
chusetts Volunteer Militia, wasthe son of Eev. Nathan-
iel and Olive Howe, ofHopkinton, Mass.  He was born
 - 214 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              197
in that town, T^ov. 26, 1792.  Hewasfitted for college at
Phillips Academy, Andover, and entered Harvard Col-
lege in 1811, graduating therefrom in 1815.   He stud-
ied medicine at the Harvard Medical School, under the
supervision ofDr. JohnC. Warren, receiving his diploma
in  1819.  He received  a  formal  invitation  from the
citizens of South Weymouth, through a committee of
twelve of the leading men in the place, to settle with
them " in  the practice  of physic and surgery."  He
came to  Weymouth in  September of 1819,  and for
forty-seven years had no associate and scarcely a com-
petitor.   For the last three years he was associated to
some extent with Dr. Tower.  In the fiftieth  year of
his practice he withdrew from active medical work, but
still occasionally went out in consultation.
Dr. Howe was a man of great physical as  well as
mental power, and performed to the last  an amount of
labor that very few of the younger members of the
profession were able to do.
He had the happy faculty  of taking things easily,
which enabled him to rest when not actively engaged,
though surrounded by exciting circumstances; yet he
was always careful of the welfare of his patients, caring
for them assiduously by night and by day.
He held many distinguished positions in military life.
He was a member, and for some time commander, of
the  Ancient and Honorable Artillery  Company.  He
was chosen surgeon of the  Second Regiment, First
Brigade, Second Division, of the Massachusetts Mili-
tia;  also  adjutant and colonel of the  same.  He was
brigadier of the First Brigade, and afterwards major-
general of First Division of Massachusetts Militia.
He also received civic honors, and was senator from
I^'orfolk County during the years 1841, 1842, 1843.
He was a member of the school committee for many
years,, and for some time its  chairman, and upon his
 - 215 - 
198               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
resignation received a formal vote of thanks from the
town.
He was a  member of the Massachusetts  Medical
Society,  and at  one time  president  of  the  Norfolk
District  Medical  Society.   He was an ardent  sym-
pathizer with the anti-slavery movement from its  in-
ception.  When, in order to do honor to the memory
of an officer of the army from Massachusetts, who fell
in  the Mexican war, he was requested to  order  the
officers of the First Division of militia, of which he was
then commander, to attend the funeral, he refused to
comply, because he considered the object of that war to
be the extension of slavery.   In consequence of this
refusal, he received the  severest reproaches and con-
demnations of the pro-slavery party at the ]!!forth, and
the  maledictions  and  reviling  of the  slave-holding
powers at  the  South, sent  to  him in letters  of the
foulest and most scurrilous character.
It may be interesting to know that in his early days
he taught school in various places; among them, in the
" Iron works district," Braintree, and boardedat Colonel
Minot Thayer's; and through the influence of this gen-
tleman he was introduced to the notice of the citizens
of South Weymouth.
He married for his first wife, shortly after coming to
town, Dec. 12, 1821, Harriet, daughter of ElipJialet and
Anna Loud,who was born in Weymouth, Feb. 8, 1795,
and died Nov. 16, 1848, in her fifty-fourth year, without
issue.   After her death he married JEliza, daughter of
Joseph and Thankful {^Bates-Loud, of the North vil-
lage, born May 9,  1812, who, with one daughter, still
survives.   The issue of this marriage was one daughter
and one son, viz. :  —
I.   Hattie, born Dec. 18,  1852.
11.   Appleton L., bom Feb. 20, 1854; died Nov. 23, 1856.
 - 216 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              199
He died in his  own home, Columbia Street,  South
Weymouth, Oct. 10, 1870, and was buried in the family
lot in the Highland Cemetery.
Dr. Jacob  Kichards was the son of Jacob  and
Lydia ( Colson-Hichards.  He was born in Weymouth,
June 24, 1795.  He obtained his early education in the
public  schools  of Weymouth, fitted  for  college  and
entered Brown University in 1820, receiving his degree,
A. B., in 1824.
During the winter months, while in college and even
after he graduated, hetaught school to gain his support.
He studied medicine under the direction of Dr. J. C.
Warren, of Boston, and, after receiving his diploma, set-
tled in Hanover, Mass., about 1833.  He was admitted
a fellow of the Massachusetts Medical Society in 1840.
He removed to  Weymouth in  1856, where he re-
mained for one year,  residing in the  house now occu-
pied by F. W. Lewis, Esq.  He then removed to East
Braintree, where he lived till his death.
He married, 1834, Elizabeth Gardner Wblcott, daugh-
ter  of Hev.  Calvin  Wolcott,  rector of St.  Andrew's
Episcopal Church, Hanover, Mass.  Their children were
as follows:  —
I.   Augustus J., born Sept. 20, 1835.
II.   George C, born Jan. 18, 1838.
III.   Sarah Ann, bom Feb. 5, 1840.
IV.  Susannah Lincoln, born Sept. 20, 1843.
V.  Mart Gardner, born April 1, 1846.
He died Jan. 2, 1861, and lies buried in the Ashland
Cemetery.
Dr. David Torret was the son of Deacon Samuel
and Dolly (Blanchard-Torrey, and brother of N^oah
Torrey, Esq., of South Weymouth.  He was born June
29, 1793.  He obtained his  preparatory education  in
the Weymouth schools,  and graduated from Brown
 - 217 - 
200               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
University in 1819.  In 1823 he married Maria Still-
man Balsli, of Boston.   He practised  for a time in
Holbrook,  and in  Hanover,  and  removed  to  South
Weymouth in 1840, remaining there until 1855, when
he removed to Johet, 111.   Whilein Weymouthhe lived
on Union Street, in a house belonging to the estate of
Mr. Orren Shaw.  He died in Joliet, Aug. 14, 1870.
Their children are:   —
T.   Mary J., born Oct 23, 1825.
II.   Samuel S., born June 14, 1827 ;*  died July 2, 1882.
III.   Charlotte I., born Feb. 23, 1829.
IV.  David F., born Feb. 24, 1831 ;    died Aug. 15, 1853.
V.  Edward M., born Nov. 15, 1855.
De. Timothy GoEDOisr was not very dissimilar in his
personal characteristics, mental and physical, from his
contemporaries, Drs. Howe and Fifield.   A man of
strong  convictions,  weighing carefully those matters
which demanded his consideration, and when his  opin-
ion was once formed, so tenacious and uncompromising
that no earthly power could turn him from the course
which he believed to be right.   He was born at New-
bury,  Mass., March 10,  1795.  It  is  believed he was
prepared for college at Exeter, N. H., and he received
his degree, A. M., from Amherst in 1868.  Heobtained
his  M. D. from Bowdoin in 1825.   He came to Wey-
mouth in the same year, and continued here in practice
for twelve years, residing at North Weymouth, in the
house now occupied by Henry A. Nash, Esq..  He then
removed to Plymouth, where he remained till his death,
Nov. 5, 1877.
He married. May 12,  1825, Jane Binney Jones.,  of
Hingham, daughter of  Solomon Jones,  and had two
children:  —
I.    Solomon J., born at "Weymouth, Sept. 24, 1826.
II.   Timothy, born at Weymouth, April 16,  1836 ;  died April 19,
1836.
 - 218 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              201
De. Joseph Doke came to "Weymouth in 1836.  He
remained here but a very short time.   He did not own
real  estate  here,  but boarded with  Captain  Hervey
Gushing, ISTorth Weymoutli.  He married the widow of
Mr.  Robert Blchnell,  sold  out  his  practice  to  Dr.
Learned and removed to Philadelphia, Pa., where he
died some years since.   His widow survives him, and is
a resident of that city.   They had no children.
Dr. Ebbnezee. Tueell Leaened succeeded  Dr.
Dorr.  He was born in Gardner, Mass., July 19, 1812.
He had the usual common-school education, and pursued
his  more advanced studies  under private  instruction.
He received his medical education partly in the Medical
Department of Dartmouth Gollege and partly  in the
Harvard Medical School.   He received his  M. D. in
1836, and came to Weymouth the same year.   He pur-
sued his profession in the ISTorth village for ten years,
and then, in 1846, removed to Fall River, where he still
resides, broken down in health and entirely unable to
attend to professional duties.   For some years he was
one of the  councillors  of the Massachusetts Medical
Society,  and for  two years  president  of the Bristol
South District  Society.   He married Mary Matilda
Wliite, of Ashburnham, Mass., May 14, 1835.  Their
children are:  —
I.   Sarah M., born Sept. 19, 1836.
II.   Susan T., bora Nov. 4, 1839.
III.   Mart W., born Oct. 17, 1841.
IV.  Ltdia K., born March 19, 1845.
V.  Anna M., born Sept. 18, 1848.
VI.  Helen M., born June 11, 1852.
VII.  Josephine H. D., born July 13, 1856.
VIII.  Fanny H., born Nov. 6, 1858.
IX.  William T., born March 25, 1861.
The family circle is still unbroken (1884).
 - 219 - 
202                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Dr. George Fordyce Fifield, son of Dr. Noah
and Hannah Fifield, was born in Weymouth, April 18,
1822.  He pursued his academic studies in the town, and
received his degree, A. B., from Harvard College in
1841.  He then commenced the study of medicine, and
in due time entered upon its  practice with his  father.
After giving promise of a useful and successful career
he died, Nov. 15, 1846, of lumbar abscess, and is buried
in the family lot in the village cemetery.
Dr. Charles Coffran was born in Thomaston,Me.,
about the year 1817.  He studied medicine with Dr.
Jackson, of Boston, and held a degree from the Harvard
Medical School.  He came to Weymouth in 1845, and
after practising here about five years, removed in May,
1850.  He resided in the South village.   Two children,
a boy and a girl,  were born to him here.   On leaving
the place he went to his native town, and, after living
there for a time, removed to Kiverside, CaL, where he
died in 1879.
Dr. Daniel Lewis Gibbens was born in Boston,
Jan. 29, 1824.  He studied in the Boston schools, and
was graduated from the Harvard Medical School in
1847.  He practised for a short time in Wrentham, and
came to Weymouth in 1847, locating at the North Vil-
lage.   He joined the Massachusetts Medical Society,
the succeeding year.   He remained in Weymouth five
years, and then removed to  New Orleans,  where he
died Dec. 3, 1865.  Hemarried Eliza P. Webh, daughter
of Christopher, Esq., and Susan {Wliite-WeUb, of this
town, in 1847.
Their children are:  —
I.   Alice, born Feb. 6,  1849.
II.   Mart, born June 10, 1851.
III.   Margaret, born Feb. 15, 1858.
 - 220 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.             203
Dr. Josiah Ball was born at Milford, Mass., in
1828.  He pursued  his  academic course at  Holliston
Academy, and graduated  in  Boston at  the Harvard
Medical School.  He married, in 1846, Sarah Taylor,
ofMattapoisett, Mass.  He came to Weymouth in 1847,
and commenced the practice of medicine, and also had
charge of the drug store,  more recently occupied by
Messrs. White & Ambler.  After practising here for
three years, he died in 1850, leaving a widow.  They
had one child, who died in infancy.
Dr. Ira H. Perry was born March 23, 1819, in
I^atick, Mass.  He graduated at Wesleyan University,
Middletown, Conn., in 1842; studied medicine in Buck-
land, Mass.,  and received his  degree of M. D. from
Berkshire Medical College, Pittsfield, Mass., in 1845.
From 1845to 1856 he practised medicine in West Med-
way and Weymouth, Mass.  In 1857 and 1858 he, with
four others, founded the town of Zumbrota, Minn.  In
1862 and 1863 he was assistant surgeon in United States
army, in Virginia and Washington; from 1863 to 1866,
was assistant surgeon Ninth Regiment, United States
colored troops;  in 1866 and 1867 was surgeon, with rank
ofbrevet major. United States Volunteers.
He married,  April  26,  1849,  Joanna Bullard,  of
Waylaud, Mass.
His children are:  —
I.   Marian E., born March 31,  1850.
II.   Bertie, born April 3, 1852 ;    died in August, 1852.
III.   Helen A., born Oct. 14, 1853.
IV.  Selia E., born Sept. 19, 1855.
V.  Orrin J., born Feb. 14, 1858.
VI.  Minnie A., born May 20, 1860.
His present address is Galeta, Santa Barbara County,
California.
 - 221 - 
204               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Dr. Hervey E. Westotst was born in Weymouth,
Mass., June 21, 1817.   He graduated at Yale College in
1839.  He afterwards studied medicine in Boston, and
received his diploma from the Harvard Medical School.
Later he pursued his medical studies in Paris, returning
to Weymouthin 1847.  He practised medicine there for
several years, and afterwards, for a short time, in Boston.
In 1859 he joined members of his family, then resi-
dent in Italy, returning in  1861.  He had at this time
given up practice.   A few years  later there came a
decided failure  of health, which resulted, finally, in an
obscure spinal malady.  He was for some years a con-
firmed and, for a part of the time, a helpless invalid, but
he retained his  vigorous intellect  to the  last, and his
wonderful patience, courage and resignation never gave
way for a moment.
Those who have known him as a physician will never
forget his personal devotion, thoughtfulness and sym-
pathy, nor will  the suffering  poor,  to  whom he was
some times nurse as well as doctor, ever cease to remem-
ber his  kindness.
He was a good classical  scholar, and very fond of
archaeological and numismatic researches, and to these,
when in Italy, he devoted considerable time.   He died
unmarried, July 21, 1882.
Dr. Ephraim Lewis Warreist was located for some
years  at  Weymouth.   He was born in  Lunenburg,
Mass., in 1823.  He received his preparatory training
at Philhps Academy, Andover, Mass., and was gradu-
ated from the Berkshire Medical College in 1849, receiv-
ing his degree, M. D.
He came to Weymouth the succeeding year, and at
that time was admitted to the Massachusetts  Medical
Society.
In October, 1861, heentered the army as surgeonin the
 - 222 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.             205
Twenty-second Regiment, Massachusetts Volunteers,
and was honorably discharged June 10, 1862.  He re-
enlisted Dec. 10, 1862, in the Fifth Rhode Island Vol-
unteers,  from which he was discharged for physical
disability, Dec. 7,  1863.   He occupied, also, the posi-
tion of inspector in the Sanitary Commission, with the
rank of major.  He was appointed medical examiner in
1876.  After leaving the army he returned to Wey-
mouth, where he practised his  profession for  a  few
years  and purchased the " Weymouth Drug Store,"
which he held under his control for a time.   He then
removed to  Medford,  Mass.,  which  is   his  present
address.
While in Weymouth he married the widow of Dr.
Josiah Ball, by whom he had one child, a daughter: —
I.   Anna A., born Jan. 11, 1870.
Dr. John Hexky Gilbert was a native of Atkin-
son,  ]Sr.  H.  He was born I^ov. 11,  1826.   His  aca-
demic education was received at Atkinson Academy,
his medical education at the Harvard Medical School,
where he was graduated, receiving his M. D. in  1853.
In the same year he came to East Weymouth, where he
remained for three years.   He then removed to Hunt-
ington, Mass., stopped there for about a year and a half,
and then returned to  East Weymouth in 1857, where
he continued his medical practice  for five  years.   He
then went to  Quincy, Mass., where he is  now settled
(1884).  He was admitted a fellow of the Massachu-
setts Medical Society in 1854.
He married Jane Copeland, of Huntington, Mass.,
l^OY. 27, 1856, and they have one child:  —
I.   John H., born Sept. 3, 1870.
Dr. George Wtman Fat was born in  Grafton,
Mass., Feb. 9,  1834.  His preparatory education was
 - 223 - 
206               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
obtained at Leicester Academy, and he was graduated
from the Harvard Medical School in 1863.  He came
to East Weymouth in 1857, and has continued in prac-
tice there ever since.   He was admitted to the Massa-
chusetts Medical Society in 1866, and was one of its
councillors  for  some years.   He was for  two years
president  of the Union Medical and Surgical Asso-
ciation.   He married, March 21,  1857,  Jane Louise
Mowry, of Worcester, Mass.
Their children are:  —
T.   Frank G., born Feb. 1, 1859.
II.   George W., born Jan. 6,  1861.
III.   Florence J., born June ;30,  1864.
IV.   Blanche M., born Dec. 16, 1865 ;   deceased.
V.  E.  Louise, born June 10, 1870.
VI.  M. Fanny, born Oct 12, 1871.
Dr. William Crajstch  Bo>fD  Fifield  was  the
younger son of Dr. I^oah  Fifield.   He was born in
Weymouth, Aug. 27, 1828.  His preliminary academic
education was obtained in  the town schools  and in
Exeter,  N. H., Academy.   He graduated from the
Harvard Medical School in 1848; also from the Royal
College of Surgeons, England.  He was house olScer
in London Hospital, and licentiate of the Royal Oph-
thalmic Hospital, and member of the American Medical
Society, Paris.   He is member of the Obstetric Society,
and honorary member of  the  Improvement Society,
Boston, and surgeon on the staff of Boston City Hos-
pital.   He was admitted a fellow of the Massachusetts
Medical Society in 1858, and was at one time president
of the Norfolk District Medical Society.  After grad-
uation  he  practised for  a  time with  his  father,  but
removed to Dorchester, Oct. 21,  1861, where he still
resides.
He married Emily A. Porter, daughter of ThomasB.
and Emily (
Vining-JPorter, May 13, 1856.
 - 224 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             207
,                                                Their children are:  —
I.   Mart S., born March 29, 1857.
II.   George F., born July 1,  1859 ;    died September, 1860.
III.   Charles B., born Sept. 5, 1861 ;   died March 4, 1877.
Dk. Lemuel Fuller was the  son of Dr. Lemuel
Fuller,  of  Attleborough,  Mass.,  where he  practised
many years.   He was born in  Marlborough,  Mass.,
April 2, 1812, but in infancy his parents removed with
him to Attleborough.
He had the ordinary advantages of an English edu-
cation,  and was graduated in  medicine, receiving his
degree, M. D., from the Vermont Medical College.
At Concord, Mass., June 6, 1844, he married  Cath-
erine Pallisseuir Barrett.
He practised for  a  time at Milton, Mass., and re-
moved to North Weymouth, on receiving a call from
a committee of the citizens of the village, Jan. 9, 1853.
He remained in this village for ten years, when sick-
ness necessitated his temporary absence, and he died in
Harvard, Mass., ^^'ov. 8, 1864.
He had no children.
Dr. Charles Carroll Towkr was contemporary
with Dr. Howe for a time, and afterwards his successor.
He had the advantages of a preparatory course of study
under private instruction, and entered Harvard College
in 1852.   He received his degree of A. B. from that
Institution  in  1856, and immediately commenced the
study of medicine in the Harvard Medical School, from
which he received his  degree of M. D. in  1859.  He
came the same year to South Weymouth, and entered
upon the practice of his profession, and, with the excep-
tion  of his  service in the army, has been there ever
^ince.   From September, 1862, till  January, 1863, he
served as assistant surgeon, U. S. A., on duty at Emory
 - 225 - 
208               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Hospital, in the vicinity of Washington, D. C; after
which he resumed the duties of his profession in South
Weymouth.
He has filled  the position of medical examiner for
some years.
He married, 'Nov. 29, 1860, Clarissa Lothrop Pratt^
of Cohasset.  They have four children: —
I.    Cakrie a., born July 18, 1862.
11.   Charlotte B., bora Nov. 22, 1863.
III.   Helen M., born Aug. 8, 1868.
IV.  Ruth N., born Nov. 15, 1873.
Dr. Joseph Corliett was a practising physician in
South Weymouth from about 1856 to 1862.  He came
to Weymouth from Millbury, Mass., and after leaving
town returned there, where he died a few years since.
He had two children: —
I.   Joseph.
II.   Mary.
Dr. Fraistcis  Fl^t Forsaith was born May 8,
1824, in  Deering,     H.  He received his  academic
education in the schools of his native town, and in the
academies of Hancock and Francestown, IST.  H.  He
entered Dartmouth College in 1843, and received his
degree of A. B. from that institution in 1847.
After teaching for a time in the Alstead High School
and Francestown Academy, he entered on the study of
medicine, and received his  degree of M. D. from the
Vermont University in 1852.  He came to Weymouth
in 1861, and still  continues in practice there.
Hewas admitted to the MassachusettsMedical Society
in 1856, and for some years was one of its  councillors.
For two years he was president of the Union Medical
and  Surgical Association.  He married  Sarah Jane
DicTcerman, of Providence, K,. I., I^oy. 25, 1851.
 - 226 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             209
Their children are:  —
I.   Frank L., born Feb. 13, 1854.
II.   Walter G., born Oct. 20, 1865.
III.   Eva M., born Sept. 13, 1869 ;    died Oct. 26, 1877.
Dr. Oliver Perry Piper was born in  l^orthum-
berland County, Pa., April 18, 1848.   He received his
degree, A. B.,  from Princeton College in  1868,  and
that of M. D. from Jefferson College, Philadelphia, Pa.,
March 9,  1872.  He practised one year at  Schuylkill
Haven, Pa., and came to I^orth "Weymouth, March 1,
1873.   After remaining there  about three  years, he
returned to Schuylkill Haven in September, 1876, and
is now in practice there.
He has  twice been appointed physician-in-chief to
the Schuylkill County Hospital, and is  a member of
the  Schuylkill County Medical Association and of the
Pennsylvania State Medical Society.   Hemarried Anna
Eliza Eshleman, and they have one child:  —
I.   Eleanor G., born Oct. 29, 1878.
Dr. Moses Reuben Greelt was born Aug. 13,
1826, in Hudson,    H.  His academic education was
acquired  at  the  schools  of  I^Tashua,  l^ew London,
Pembroke, and Hancock, N". H., where he fitted  for
college.
His medical education was obtained from the Harvard
Medical School, from which he graduated in March,
1850.  He was admitted to the Massachusetts Medical
Society in 1850.  In September, 1862, he was commis-
sioned assistant surgeon in the Third Regiment Minne-
sota Volunteer Infantry;  was on detached service in
charge of hospitals at Helena and Little Rock, and was
acting surgeon on General Shaler's staff during the last
six months of the late war.  He came to South Wey-
14
 - 227 - 
210               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
mouth, June 17,  1869, and still  continues in practice
there.   lie married Sarah Rohie Peirce, at East Boston,
Mass., June 17, 1852.
Their children are:  —
I.    Charles R., bom Oct. 23, 1853.
II.   Mary L., born Sept. 11, 1855.
III.   William H., born Nov. 27, 1858.
IV.  Llewellyn, born Dec. 11, 1861.
Dr. Grawille Wilsox Tin-ioiam was a native of
ISTorth Bridgewater, Mass., and was born May 21, 1848.
He received his academic education in the town schools,
and was graduated from the Harvard Medical School,
with degree of M. D.,  March 8,  1871.  He came to
Weymouth in June of the same year, and has practised
there ever since.   He was admitted a member of the
Massachusetts Medical Society in 1872.  He married,
Oct. 20, 1874, Augusta Louise Trash, of Weymouth.
Their children are:  —
I.   Maude C, born Oct.  12,  1876.
II.   Oliver 6., born June 22, 1879.
Dr. Roscoe Ellsworth Browj^t was a  native  of
Lynn, Mass., where he was born May 18, 1851.  He
obtained his preparatory education in Bridgton High
School  and Bridgton Academy, Bridgton, Me.   He
spent a year in the Portland Medical School and the
Maine General Hospital, and received his M.D. from the
Medical School of Bowdoin College in July, 1876.   He
came to I^orth Weymouth in September of the same
year, and has since removed to East Weymouth, where
hestill practises.   Hejoined the Massachusetts Medical
Society in 1879.  He married, Feb. 2,  1877, Mary JE.
Wilson, of Brunswick, Me.  They had one child:  —
I.   RoscoE B., born Sept. 11, 1882 ;    died Feb. 9, 1884.
 - 228 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             211
De. John Chisholm Fraser was born in Antigo-
nish, ]Sr.  S., Aug. 2, 1853, and received his A. B., from
St. Francis Xavier College of that place.   He acquired
his medical education at Harvard and at Bellevue Hos-
pital Medical College, wherehe received his M.D.,March
1, 1876, and came to East "Weymouth in the same year.
He was admitted to the Massachusetts Medical Society
in 1880, and is at the present time the president of the
Union Medical  and Surgical  Association.   He mar-
ried, July 20, 1880, Mary Ann Boyle, of East Wey-
mouth.
Their children are:  —
I.   Mary G., born July 18, 1881.
II.   Akchy M,, born May 22, 1883.
Dr. William Abram Drake was a native of Con-
cord, I^f.  H.   He was born Oct. 22, 1849.   His aca-
demic education was obtained in Augusta,Me., at Cony
Academy.  He was graduated from the Medical De-
partment of Bowdoin College in 1879, after having had
some clinical hospital experience and served as hospital
steward.  He came to  N^orth Weymouth, March 15,
1 880, andcontinues there at the present time.   He was
admitted to the Massachusetts Medical Society in 1883.
He married, Feb. 17, 1880, Rose Horn, of ^N'orway, Me.
They have no children.
ECLECTIC physician.
Dr. Joseph Porter Hodgdon was a  native  of
Kensington,    H., where he was born June 9, 1825.
Heobtained a common-school education, and graduated
from the Eclectic  Medical School, Worcester, Mass.
He came to Weymouth in 1852, and remained seven
years.
 - 229 - 
212                SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
HOMCEOPATHIC PHYSICIANS.
Dr. I^orton Quincy Tirrkll succeeded Dr. Gib-
bens at  IS'orth Weymouth.  He occupied  a house on
Commercial Street, on King Oak Hill, commanding a
magnificent view of Boston Harbor and the surround-
ing country.   His academic education was obtained at
Warren Academy,Wilbraham, Woburn,Mass., and Gil-
manton, N^. H.  As to medical education he was a grad-
uate of no college; he " obtained it  in the regular pro-
cess of study."   He began practice in  Sharon, Mass.,
but removedto this townin January, 1852, andfor many
years his practice was large and lucrative.   During the
latter part of his life  he practised homceopathy.  His
medical life  covered a period of thirty years.   He mar-
ried Susan Jane French, of Loudon, ]S^.  H., May 12,
1842.
Their children are as follows, viz. :  —
I.    Frederic N., bora June 30, 1843.
II.   Charles Q., born Dec. 10, 1844.
III.   Nathan T., bom March 22, 1847.
IV.  Clara J., born July 23, 1849 ;    died April 13, 1876.
V.  Norton, born March 2, 1855.
VI.  George E., born Aug. 4, 1856.
He was born I^ov. 20, 1817; and died Oct. 19, 1882,
at his home in East Weymouth, having removed to this
village some years previously.
Dr. William Falbs Hathaway was born Oct.
4, 1843, at  IS'orthbridge, Mass.   He received a high-
school preparatory education, and graduated in medicine
from the Hahnemann Medical College of Philadelphia,
Pa., March 4, 1869.   He was in the battles around and
at the siege of Yicksburg, Miss.  He was appointed
hospital  steward of the Forty-second Ohio Volunteer
Infantry.   He came to Weymouth in  1871, and still
 - 230 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             213
practises  here.   He married JElizaheth  Stansbury,  of
Philadelphia, Pa., March 17, 1869.
Their children are:  —
I.   Florence, born Dec. 19, 1869.
II.   Harry S., born July 6, 1872.
III.   Marie L., born Dec. 12,1874 ;    died June 13, 1881.
IV.  William Fales, born Jan. 19, 1878.
Dr. Judson L. Beck was born in St. John,    B.,
in 1836.  He graduated from the  Boston University,
and came to  East Weymouth in  1879.   He married
Miss E. 8. Malcom, of Halifax, if. S.
They have two children:  —
I.   Fred, born April 25, 1872.
II.   Bertha M., born May 2, 1874.
FEMALE PHYSICIANS.
Mrs. Dr. Tuck, a resident of South "Weymouth, has,
for several years, been practising medicine at her own
residence and at her office in Boston.  She is the widow
of the late Lorenzo Tuck of the South village, and for-
merly of Ilf^orth Bridgewater.  She has one son.
Mrs. Dr. Tirzah E. GooDwiisr is  the wife of Mr.
John Goodwin, of Weymouth, and daughter of Mr.
Koyal Norton, of the same village.   She is  a graduate
of Boston University, and has for several years been
practising  in  this  and other  places.   She has  two
children.
Messrs. Forrest, Fitzgerald, Guptil, Andrews,
and possibly some others have practised medicine for a
very short time in some parts of the town, but scarcely
long enough for them to acquire real estate or to be
considered permanent residents.
 - 231 - 
214               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
CHAPTER XII.
Eebellion Eecord—Twelfth Eegiment—Thirty-fifth Regiment—Forty-
second Eegiment—Fourth Heavy Artillery —Soldiers' Eecord,
Rebellion Recoed, 1861-5. —The following  rec-
ord of soldiers sent by the town of "Weymouth, Mass.,
into the Union service  during the great Rebellion of
1861-5, with the exception of a few errors corrected
by the compiler, is taken chiefly from the townarchives,
kept in  accordance with  acts  of  the  Massachusetts
Legislature, approved March 7 and April29, 1863, and is
believed to be substantially correct.   There are, doubt-
less,  errors  and  omissions,  as it  is  almost necessary
there must be in  such compilations, judging from the
universal experience of the past.   Names are extremely
liable to error, since there are so many ways of spelling
the same.  Dates also are  sources of difiiculty, as  all
know who have ever attempted to verify them.  Defec-
tive  memories  are exceedingly fruitful in mistakes in
matters that are not made the subject of record at the
time of their occurrence.
Much care and labor have been bestowed upon this
list, yet it claims to be at best but a good basis upon
which to rest  a full  and thorough history  of Wey-
mouth during the Rebellion, and is  perhaps sufficiently
accurate for ordinary purposes.
Agreat many of the men here enumerated served in
other organizations during the war than that to which
they are credited; to name them all  would extend the
work too much for the general purpose;  that here given
 - 232 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             215
is usually the one in which the first enlistment was made.
The rank named is the highest held during the term of
service, without regard to the organization in which it
was held.   When no State is named, Massachusetts is
understood, and the alphabetical arrangement has been
used to facilitate reference.   The necessary abbrevia-
tions will be readily understood.  The name being first
given, then the rank, afterwards the branch of service,
and last, casualties where any occurred.
Weymouth having sent into  the war four full com-
panies in as many different regiments, and all  of them
bearing an honorable record, a brief sketch of the oper-
ations of these organizations cannot fail to be of interest
in a work of this  character; and much care has been
taken that the following brief histories  shall cover in
outline,  and correctly,  their  several  careers  as  they
passed through their terms of service.
Two of the regiments, the Twelfth and the Thirty-
fifth,  were pre-eminently  fighting  regiments,  known
and acknowledged as  such through the  length  and
breadth of the land.   The remaining two, the Forty-
second and the Fourth Heavy Artillery, although not
so favored in  that respect,  were noted for their drill
and discipline,  and for their prompt and faithful per-
formance of every duty they were called upon to do;
and there can be no question that, had the opportunity
offered,  they would have shown as good a record in
the battle-field as their more celebrated comrades.
The materials  for these sketches have been drawn
from ofiicial  records or other authentic sources of in-
formation, and may be relied  upon to give a faithful
account in  brief of the varied services in which they
were engaged from the time of their " muster in " until
they were honorably discharged from the service of the
United States.
 - 233 - 
216               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
TWELTH KEGIMENT MASSACHUSETTS VOLUNTEERS.
The first movement looking to the enlistment of men
for companies, which were afterwards organized as the
Twelfth  Kegiment of Massachusetts Volunteers, was
made under a  call  from Fletcher  Webster,  son  of
Daniel Webster, bearing date of 20th of April, 1861,
soon  after  the  attack  upon Sumter and the  call  of
President Lincoln for volunteers.   This was on Satur-
day, and a meeting was held on the next day, Sunday,
in  State Street, Boston.  Enlistments were begun on
Monday, the 22d, and so rapidly did the work progress,
that by the 7th ofMaythe regiment was organized with
its full complement of officers, and also furnished with
arms and unifoi'ms, and named the Webster Regiment,
in honor of him who had done so much to bring it into
being.
The officers were, Fletcher Webster, colonel; T. M.
Bryan, Jr., lieutenant-colonel; and Elisha M. Burbank,
major.  The ffi'st five companies were recruited in Bos-
ton, and commenced drilling  in Faneuil Hall, Clinton
Street, and Summer Street; CompanyFwas gathered in
ISTorth Bridgewater; Company G, in Abington; Com-
pany H, in Weymouth
;
Company I, in  Stoughton;  and
Company K, in Gloucester; and the regiment removed
during the first  week in  May to Fort Warren, Boston
Harbor, where it was actively engaged in perfecting its
organization and drill  during the next few weeks.
The  regiment was accepted June 14,  and on the
26th, eight hundred and fifty  men were mustered into
the  service  of the United States,  and the remainder
of them on the 11th of July.  From some unknown
cause the movement of the regiment was delayed from
time to time, and it did not take its departure for the seat
of war until July 23, when it  left Boston, 1040 strong
 - 234 - 
SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.              217
reached Baltimore, via Harrisburg, at noon the 26th,
and started immediately towards Harper's Ferry, arriv-
ing at Sandy Hook, Md., on the morning of the 27th,
"where it was assigned to Abercrombie's brigade, Banks's
division, and commenced active duty, and where it soon
obtained the  reputation of being the best drilled regi-
ment in the brigade.
During a whole year its  strength was spent in the
irksome duties of the camp, and in marches and coun-
termarches through Maryland and Virginia, between
Frederick, Winchester, and Fredericksburg, with hardly
the face of an enemy in  sight.   Its  ill  luck at  com-
mencement seemed to follow it,  and it  had no oppor-
tunity to test its courage, skill, and endurance in battle.
Its  reputation as  a fighting regiment was yet to be
established, and a lurking suspicion begun to  be felt
that it  was not seeking that service.   But its  severe
schooling was not without result,  as was fully shown
when the test was applied.
On the 9th and 10th of August it  came under fire
for the first time in  any important engagement, and its
losses in the battle of Cedar Mountain were one killed,
eight wounded, and two missing, and from this time
forward it  bore not even suspicion of reproach.  Its
record was unsurpassed.  Its  next fight  occurred on
the 23d at  Thoroughfare Gap; and on the 30lh,  at
Groveton, a severe battle was fought, in which the regi-
ment lost fifteen killed, sixty wounded, and sixty-three
missing, and among the killed was its lamented colonel.
From here the regiment took up its line of march for
Washington, which it reached very soon after the disas-
trous defeat of General Pope in the second battle of
Bull Run, and immediately started under McClellan in
search of Lee, who was encountered on the 14th to the
17th at South Mountain and Antietam.  In these bloody
and  obstinate  engagements  the  regiment  went into
 - 235 - 
218               SKETCH OF WETMOUTII.
action with three hundred and forty men, and came out
with  only  thirty-two,  having lost  in  killed  seventy,
wounded one hundred and eighty-three,  and  thirty
missing.
On the 21st of September, Captain Bates, having been
promoted first as major in the Thirty-third Regiment,
then as colonel,  took command of his  old regiment,
where he was gladly  welcomed.  They crossed  the
Potomac on the  30th of October, and passed down
into Virginia, where, on the  13th of December, they
fought their next hard fight in the battle of Fredericks-
burg; going into action with two hundred and fifty-
eight  men, they sustained a  loss  of fourteen  killed,
eighty-eight wounded, and three missing.  Taking up
their winter quarters at Belle Plain, they remained in
camp until the latter part of April, 1863.
The regiment was in the battle  of Chancellorsville
under Hooker, but met with inconsiderable loss.  Under
Meade, the regiment followed Lee into  Pennsylvania
and was in the hard fight at Gettysburg, from 1st to
3d of July, where it  fully sustained its  reputation for
bravery and endurance, and came out of the battle with
a loss of nine killed, forty-one wounded, and sixty-one
missing, and returned back to  Virginia on the 18th
ofJuly.
On the 15th of August, Colonel Bates, who had been
to Massachusetts to recruit for the regiment, returned
with one hundred and seventy-six men, mostly drafted,
who proved of not mnch service.   During the remain-
der of the fall  the time was spent in  marches  over
Eastern Virginia, and the regiment took up its  winter
quarters  at  Culpepper, where it  remained until May,
1861:   In March, Grant took command of the army,
and the  regiment was with  him in  the fights at the
Wilderness, Todd's Tavern, and Spottsylvania, 5th, 7th,
and 8th of May, where its losses were nineteen killed,
 - 236 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             219
sixty-three wounded; and on the 10th  and 11th,  at
Laurel Hill, its losses were fifteen killed and thirty-two
wounded.  May 23 and 30, on the i^orth Anna and
Pamunky, its   losses  were  five   killed  and  twenty
wounded.  In the fifty  days, from May 5 to June 25,
the regiment had reported forty-six killed, one hundred
and twenty-three wounded, three missing, and thirteen
prisoners.
Upon the latter  date,  June 25,  the service of the
regiment came virtually to  an end.   The re-enlisted
men and conscripts  were turned over to the Thirty-
ninth Massachusetts, and the  regiment, consisting  of
eighty-five men, turned their faces homeward, marching
for City Point, thence to New York, arriving in Boston,
July 1, 1864, with one hundred and seventy men, half
of whom had been absent on detached duty or in hos-
pital, where a glorious welcome awaited them, and they
were mustered out on the 8th.
The service  of the  regiment tells  its  own  story.
There is no need of panegyric;   its work is its  sufiicient
eulogist.   !No braver went into battle, none more trusty,
and none came home with a better reputation.
Company H from ~VYeymouth was in all  its  service,
and its losses were its  sufiicient witness that it bore its
full share of the labor, hardship and fighting.
Original number of men and oflBcers   .             ...   .               .             1040
Volunteers                                                     100
Conscripts                                                       395
In all                                                            1535
Killed                                                             162
Wounded                                          505
Missing                                 ,        .          .          .            183
In all                                                                850
Company H lost, killed, wounded, missing, and died,
fifty-three.
 - 237 - 
220               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
THIRTY-FIFTH MASSACHUSETTS VOLUNTEERS.
The disastrous issue of the PeninsuLar campaign in
the summer of 1862 furnished ample evidence that the
Rebellion was not only not crushed, but that before such
a result  could  be  accomplished the Union must put
forth  its  best endeavor.  Accordingly President Lin-
coln issued a further call, July 1, for an additional three
hundred thousand men for three years' service, and on
the following day. Governor Andrew proclaimed it  to
the State.
It was under this call that the Thirty-fifth Regiment
was organized, commencing at once in Boston, where
several  companies  were started;  the towns of I^ew-
buryport, Chelsea, Haverhill, Weymouth, and Roxbury
furnishing each a company, while the remainder of the
companies were made up from other  towns in  the
vicinity.
The camp was formed at Lynnfield, Essex County,
and named " Camp Stanton," in honor of the Secretary
of War, and men in companies and squads begun to
flock in and the work of organization commenced in
earnest.   Company H, recruited  in  Weymouth, and
commanded  by  Captain  Benjamin  F.  Pratt,  with
Geo. P. Lyon and Oliver Burrell as lieutenants, was
soon upon the ground, and, in a sense, ready for work.
The regiment was mustered into the United States
service in detachments in August and September, and
started for Washington on Friday, Aug. 22, under the
following  officers:  Edward A. Wild, colonel;  Sum-
ner Carruth, major;  and Nathaniel Wales, adjutant.
They reached their destination in two days, and were
at once assigned to the command of Brigadier-General
Casey, and on the 25th transferred to General Whip-
ple, and by him placed in Yan Yolkenburg's brigade,
 - 238 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             221
where they immediately began camp life beyond Arling-
ton Heights, in Virginia.
After the defeat of General Pope, and the consequent
demoralization  of his  armv, General  McClellan was
placed in  command, and upon him devolved its  re-
organization, which he accomplished in  an incredibly
short time, and was ready to take the field in search of
Lee within a very few days.   The Thirty-fifth Regi-
ment having been transferred  to  the  command  of
General Burnside, constituting a part of Reno's bri-
gade (the Second) in Sturgis's division (the Second) of
the Ninth Army Corps, commenced its  march on the
evening of 6th of September.
It was not, however, until Sunday, the 14th, that the
regiment took pai't in  its  first  battle, —that of South
Mountain,—in which its  part was an important and
honorable  one.   This  was  followed  immediately by
the world-renowned Antietam fight, in which it  was
indeed baptized in  blood, losing, in the two engage-
ments,  seventy-eight  killed,  and about  one hundred
and seventy-five wounded, so  that  its roll  call  upon
the 18th showed less  than three hundred men fit  for
duty;  but it  established  its  reputation  as  a  fighting
regiment, as the result of the Maryland campaign, —
an honorable record which it ever after maintained.
On the 27th of October the  regiment  crossed  the
Potomac into Virginia and began its second campaign
upon the sacred soil of that unfortunate State, and its
second battle of importance was that of Fredericksburg,
in which it  lost  ten killed  in  battle.   This  was the
last engagement during the year,  and the  time was
taken up for many weeks in marches and counter-
marches, with severe camp duty in the horrible weather
of that  season.
After several months passed in inaction, if this most
disagreeable part of the whole service can be called
 - 239 - 
222               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
such, in the latter part of March, 18G3, the regiment left
the Atlantic coast, having been ordered to the West,
and began its  third, or Kentucky campaign.  After a
few weeks here of active service without much fighting,
the regiment crossed over to  Cincinnati, and passing
through the States of Indiana and Illinois, it  was soon
at Cairo, and in June steamed down the Mississippi.
Disembarking at Young's Point, near Vicksburg, the
army made a short and useless campaign in Louisiana
and Mississippi, in which Jackson, the capital of the
latter State, was taken possession of,  with a good deal
of skirmishing, but not much hard fighting.
In August the regiment returned to the Mississippi,
and started for Cairo, which it  reached on the 12th.
It immediately took cars for Covington, where it went
into  camp, but soon started through Kentucky for a
campaign in  East Tennessee, which occupied several
months, spent mainly in marches and camp duty in a
very uncertain country, with few fights of consequence,
the most important being that at Campbell's station, in
I^ovember.  The record of the regiment,  until  April
when it took up its line of march for Harrisburg, is  not
exciting.   Passing through  Harrisburg, it  arrived  at
Annapolis on the 7th, and went into camp.
In the latter part of April the regiment broke camp,
passed through Washington and took up its march into
Virginia for a third campaign in that State.   During
the weeks that followed there was no want of excite-
ment or  active  service, for the Wilderness campaign
was one ever to be remembered by all  that participated
in it.
On the 2d of June, the Second Corps, to which the
Thirty-fifth  was  attached,  commenced  its   advance
towards Petersburg, and took up its  position in  the
siege of that city, in which arduous duty it  fully  sus-
tained its well-earned reputation, and also its full share
 - 240 - 
SKETCH OF WETMOUTH.             223
ofloss, which was, during that service, twelve killed and
thirty-four wounded, out of one hundred and sixty fit
for duty.
The autumn campaign of the regiment was made
towards the South on the line  of the Weldon railroad
and in the neighborhood ofPoplar Spring church, but it
took up its winter quarters upon the Appomattox.  In
the spring of 1865 came the closing scene in the war,
the surrender of Lee, and the fighting in  connection
with that event, in whichthe regiment had its share.   It
was mustered out of the service on the 9th of June,
1865, having been in active service about two years and
three quarters, but was not paid off or discharged until
the 27th, at Readville.
The following statistics will  show, in brief, the char-
acter and work of the regiment: —
Whole number enlisted and recruits   .                          1526 ;        Co. H,  145
Killed in battle or died of wounds              143
;
12
93 ;                  11           13
Discharged on account of wounds or disease     344;            26
38;     ((             6
Unaccounted for     .....  5;
Expiration of service     .... 356 ;                                        32
rOETY-SECOND EEGIMENT MASSACHUSETTS VOL-
UNTEERS.
This regiment was organized in the autumn of 1862,
in consequence of the call for volunteers for one year,
and was the outgrowth of the old Second Regiment of
First Brigade, First Division of Massachusetts Volun-
teers, recruited at Camp Meigs, Readville.   Company
Awas wholly from "Weymouth but the remainder of the
regiment came from all parts of the State.
It was mustered into the United States service in Sep-
tember and October, 1862, but was not fully organized
 - 241 - 
224               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
until 'Nov. 6, when the following officers were placed in
command:     colonel, Isaac S. Burrell
;
lieutenant-colonel,
Joseph Stedman; major, Frederick G. Stiles;  adjutant,
Charles A. Davis.
The regiment left  Camp Meigs, Kov. 21, for New
Orleans, via New York.   Remained at Camp N. P.
Banks at East JS^ew York, Union Race-Course, until
Dec. 2,  when it  went to  Brooklyn, whence it  sailed
in  four  transports  for  its  point of destination ;   Col.
Burrell with Companies D, G and I on the " Saxon
"
on the 3d;   arrived at Ship Island on the llth, and New
Orleans On the 16th.
This detachment was ordered immediately to Galves-
ton, leaving New Orleans on the  19th and reaching
Galveston on the 24th, where they were attacked by the
rebels  5000 strong,  under Gen. Magruder, and after
sustaining the " siege " for several days and seeing no
prospect of help, they surrendered July 1,  about two
hundred  and fifty  or  sixty in all,  the losses  of the
rebels being, by their own acknowledgment, some three
hundred or four hundred.
Companies A, B and F, under Lieutenant-Col. Sted-
man, sailed from Brooklyn on Dec. 4, on the " Quincy,"
put into Hilton Head, disabled, on the 11th, and reached
Carrollton,  above New Orleans, the 29th, going into
camp Jan. 3.    The remainder  of the  regiment left
Brooklyn on Dec. 5, Companies E and K, Capt. Davis,
on the " Charles  Osgood," which reached Carrollton,
Jan. 1; and Companies C and H, Major Stiles, on the
" Shetucket," which arrived there on the 14th.
These miserable old transports brought them into port
too late to share the fate of their gallant colonel, and
prevented them from achieving under him a glorious
victory.   The prisoners were afterwards parolled, and
saw no more service other than that as prisoners in the
hands of the rebels.
 - 242 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             225
The remaining companies were attached, by the order
of Gen.  Banks, to  the  Second Brigade,  Col.  Farr,
Second Division of the I^ineteenth Army Corps, nnder
Gen.  W. T.  Sherman.   Their  duty was mainly in
garrison and guard about 'New Orleans, towards Lake
Ponchartrain and up the Mississippi to Baton Rouge
and Port Hudson, arduous and irksome but with very
little  fighting.
At Galveston, the only occasion  in  which any of
the regiment had an opportunity to show their mettle,
they approved themselves of the same material as their
comrades of other regiments who had won well-earned
reputations as fighting regiments, and only surrendered
when the defence became perfectly hopeless.
In these various duties the time was spent until July
31, when they were embarked on the government trans-
port " Continental," reaching NewYork on the 8th of
August and Boston on the 10th, having been run on the
rocks off Point Judith during the passage from New
York.   They were furloughed until  the 20th, when
they were mustered out at Readville.
" The services of the regiment, although varied, were
well performed, and this report shoidd not close without
some praise for the enlisted men in its  ranks.
" Whatever duty they were called uponto perform was
faithfully executed.  Thoroughly imbued with the prin-
ciple of the noble general [N. P. Banks] in whose corps
they were placed, that ^ success is  a duty,' they always
on all occasions cheerfully labored for success that duty
might be done."   [Adjutant-General's report, 1863.]
The casualties  of the  regiment  were, four  killed,
twenty wounded, thirty-two died of disease, and two
hundred and fifty-six taken prisoners.
Company A of Weymouth performed faithfully  all
the duties required of it,  and if it  did not have its  full
share of fighting, it was its misfortune and not its fault.
15
 - 243 - 
226               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
FOURTH EEGIMENT OF HEAVY ARTILLERY MASSACHU-
SETTS VOLUNTEERS.
The  Twenty-third  Company  of  Heavy  Artillery
(Company G, Fourth Regiment) Massachusetts Yol-
Tinteers was largely composed of men from Weymouth,
many of whom had seen service in other organizations.
It was organized and mustered into the United States
service on Aug. 27, 1864, for one year.   It left the State
on the 16th of September, and arrived at Washington
on the 23d, where it  was assigned to duty upon the
defences of that city.   With eleven other companies, it
was consolidated and formed the Fourth Regiment of
Massachusetts Heavy Artillery on the 12th of Novem-
ber following.
The company consisted largely of new recruits;  of
the one hundred and forty-five who were its members,
only thirty-four were re-enlistments.  Seventeen of com-
missioned and non-commissioned officers  had been in
the service before.   Of the veterans, sixteen were for-
merly members of the Forty-second Regiment Massa-
chusetts Infantry,  five  of the Twelfth, and one each
from the  following  organizations  of  Massachusetts
"Volunteers :    First, Fourth, Fifth, Twenty-ninth, Thirty-
fifth, Thirty-seventh, Forty-fifth, Fifty-second; also from
Second 'New Hampshire Infantry, Second United States
Artillery, Fifth Massachusetts Battery, and Eighth Mas-
sachusetts Battery.   The regiment was mustered out of
service on the 17th of June, 1865, in consequence of
the " close of the war."
During the term of its service it  was connected with
the Twenty-second Army Corps, and, by the reports of
the United States army inspectors to headquarters of
the army, was not excelled in  discipline, instruction or
military  appearance  by any company in  the  corps.
[Furnished by Captain Andrew J. Garey.]
 - 244 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
SOLDIERS' RECORD.
Abbott, Luther C, 8th Regt., Maine.
Adams, George M., sergt., 35th Regt., Co. H.
Adlington, Stephen L.
,
private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Adliugtoa, Walter S., private, 11th Regt., Co. F; died.
Allen, Charles H., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Allison, Walter, private at Watertown Arsenal.
Ames, William F., 1st Conn. Cav.
Andrews, Edward G., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Atkinson, James, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Bailey, Christopher T., corp., 12th Regt., Co. H.
Bailey, Orestes L., private, 4th Cav.
Baker, Andrew J., private, 3d Heavy Art.
Baker, Calvin R., private, 33d Regt., Co. K.
Baker, Charles H., musician, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Baker, Howard, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Baker, William H., private, 13th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Baldwin, Everett, private, 12th Regt.
Barnes, Ferdinand J., corp., 35th Regt., Co. H.
Barnes, Robert B., private, 16th Light Bat.
Bartlett, George, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Bates, Albert, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Bates, Alfred L., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Bates, Charles W., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Bates, Elijah R., navy.
Bates, James L., brig.-gen., 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Bates, John F., private, 13th Regt., Co. K.
Bates, John W., lieut., 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Bates, Leavett, sergt., 42d Regt., Co. A.
Bates, Levi L., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Bates, Lewis D.
Bates, Samuel A., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Bates, Stephen, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Bates, William L., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Beals, Elias F., corp., 12 Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Bearce, Simeon, private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Beard, Austin P., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Beaulieu, Moses, private, 11th Regt.
Belcher, Alfred C, private, 1st Cav.
Bicknell, Anson F., corp., 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Bicknell, Charles E., corp., 85th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Bicknell, Francis A., major, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Bicknell, Frederick T., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; prisoner; died.
Bicknell, George W., private, 14th Regt., Co. F; wounded; died.
Bicknell, John Q., 43d Regt., Co. B.
Bienville, Lewis, private, 11th Regt.
 - 245 - 
228               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
Bingham, Clarence V.
Binney, Isaac II., private, 12th Eegt., Co. H.
Binney, John, sergt., 42d Ilegt., Co. A.
Birmingliam, Matthew, private, 12th Eegt., Co. H; wounded.
Birmingham, Kichard.
Blackman, John H., private, 12th Eegt., Co. H; killed.
Blanchard, Alonzo, private, 12th Eegt., Co. H.
Blanchard, Alonzo W., private, 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Blanchard, Charles B., private, 35th Eegt., Co. H; prisoner; died.
Blanchard, Frank, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co, G.
Blanchard, George W., private, 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Blanchard, James B., private, 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Blanchard, John, private, 32d Eegt., Co. G.
Blanchard, John, Jr., sergt., 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Blanchard, Mark M., private.
Blanchard, Otis S., private, 35th Eegt., Co. H.
Blanchard, O. S., private, 58th Eegt., Co. G; killed.
Blanchard, Thomas S., private, 32d Eegt., Co. A.
Boodrue, John, 43d Eegt ,   Co. B.
Bourne, Ezekiel P., private, 12th Eegt., Co. H.
Bourne, L. Y., private, 2d Art., Co. H; died.
Bowditch, Frederick H., musician, 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Bowker, James B., private, 12th Regt., Co. H; prisoner.
Brady, Thomas, private, 29th Eegt., Co. B.
Bragg, Ira W., surgeon, navy; died.
Bresnahan, Michael, private, 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Briggs, Charles E., private, 14th Light Bat.
Briggs, Henry II., private, 8th Vt. Eegt., Co. G.
Briggs, John H., private, 12th Eegt., Co. H.
Brooks, Spencer L., sergt., 12th Eegt., Co. H.
Brown, Dennis, private, 9th Eegt., Co. D; accidentally killed.
Brown, George, navy.
Brown, James, navy.
Bryant, James A., corp., 4th Heavy Art., Co. G; prisoner.
Buckmaster, Michael, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Buker, Leonard E., sergt., 32d Eegt., Co. F.
Burns, Francis D., private, 12th Eegt., Co. H.
Burns, John AV., private, 12th Eegt., Co. H; prisoner.
Burrell, Charles H., private, 3d Cav., Co. I; wounded.
Burrell, David B., lieut., 12th Eegt., Co. H; killed.
Burrell, John G., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Burrell, John P., lieut., 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Burrell, Joseph H., Jr., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Burrell, W. L., private, 1st Heavy Art., Co. M; killed.
Burrell, Martin D., private, 35th Eegt., Co. H; prisoner.
Burrell, Martin J., lieut., 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Burrell, Oliver, lieut., 35th Eegt., Co. H.
Burrell, Eichmond.
 - 246 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Burrell, Eiclimond P., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Burrell, Samuel E., private, 4ih Heavy Art., Co. G.
Burrell, William L., private, 14th Heavy Art.; killed.
Cady, Benjamin L., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Cady, Lorenzo, private, 1st Heavy Art.
Cahill, Thomas, private, 4th Cav.; killed.
Cain, Leonard W.,   musician, 56th Regt., Co. C.
Cain, Stephen, musician, 56th Regt., Co. C.
Calnan, John.
Canterbury, William, musician, 12th Regt.
Carey, Timothy, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Carney, Thomas, private, 30th Regt. ;    died.
Carney, William, private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Carroll, John, private, 3d Bat., R. I.
Carroll, John, navy.
Carroll, Michael, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Carter, Galen A., private, 16th Regt. ;   wounded and died.
Chandler, Bradford, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Chapman, Daniel L., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Chase, Abial H., corp., 42d Regt., Co. A.
Chessman, E. B., private, 32d Regt., Co. H; died.
Childs, John, private, 3d Heavy Art.
Churchill, Joshua F., private, 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Churchill, Julius R., private, 32d Regt., Co. G.
Clapp, Loring O., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Clapp, William H.
,
private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Clark, Albert, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Coburn, Hiram S., capt., 42d Regt., Co. A.
Cokeley, Dennis, private, 9th Regt., Co. D.
Cokeley, Humphrey, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Coleman, Thomas, private, 24th Regt.
Collet, Frederick, sergt., 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Colson, Frederick B., private, 1st Cav., Co. K.
Conner, Daniel, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Conners, Patrick, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Cook, Thomas W., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; deserted.
Coolidge, Amos R., private, 16th Light Bat.
Coolidge, Francis E., private, 12th Regt., Co. C; killed.
Coolidge, Frederick, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Coolidge, George H., private, 11th Regt., Co. K; died.
Coolidge, Richard S., private, 11th Regt., Co. G; deserted.
Coolidge, William F., private, 11th Regt., Co. K.
Corban, Frank, private, 4th Regt., Co. C.
Corban, Roswell L., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Corr, Owen, navy.
Cotter, Patrick, private, 4th Cav.; died.
Coughlan, Thomas, 42d Regt., Co. A.
 - 247 - 
230               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Cowing, Charles G., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Cowing, Henry V., private, 11th Regt., Co. F; prisoner.
Crocker, Charles A., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Crocker, Elery C, sergt. ,  42d Regt., Co. A.
Crocker, Enoch, private, 11th Regt., Co. F; killed.
Cronin, Patrick.
Cudworth, Benjamin, private, 42d Regt., Co. D.
Cully, Andrew, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Cummings, William L., private, 4th Cav., Co. D; prisoner.
Cunningham, John, private, 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Curtis, Charles H., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Cushing, Alanson B., navy.
Cushing, Alfred T., private,  35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Cushing, Charles E., corp., 12th Regt., Co. H; prisoner and died.
Cushing, David W., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Cushing, Edward, private, 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Cushing, Elbridge G., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Cushing, Francis H., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Cushing, Frederick O., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Cushing, George A., private, 42d Kegt., Co. A.
Cushing, George C, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Cushing, George F., private, 16th Light Bat.
Cushing, Henry F., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Cushing, John F. ,  corp., 42d Regt., Co. A.
Cushing, Thomas B., private, 12th Regt., Co. B; killed.
Cushing, William E., private, 11th Regt., Co. F.
Cushing, William N., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Cushing, William N". (2d), private, 14th Regt., Co. K.
Cushing, William Newton, private, 2d Cav.
Daffy, Thomas, private, 42d Regt., Co. D.
Daggett, Henry T., private, 1st Cav.
Dailey, Israel A., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Dallof, Albert W., private, y5th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Dalton, John W., private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Daly, Dennis, private, 1st Regt.
Dame, Joseph T., private, 32d Regt., Co. F; killed.
Damon, Albert, Co. H; wounded.
Damon, Isaac B., private, 2d Eegt.
Damon, Joshua F., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Damon, Proctor A., private, 1st U. Heavy Art.
Damon, Zachariah, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; died.
Davidson, Albert, private, 13th Regt., Co. C.
Davis, George R., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Davis, Horatio A., corp., 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Davis, John, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; died.
Davis, Leonard I., private, 16th Light Bat.
Davon, Michael, private, 10th Conn. Regt.; wounded.
Davy, Manning, private, 3Sth Regt., Co. H.
 - 248 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             231
Davy, William H., at AVatertown Arsenal.
Day, Greeuleaf, musician, 4th Cav.
Day, J. H., private, 6tli Bat.; died.
Day, James B., private; died.
Day, Joshua D., corp., 12th Regt., Co. H.
Dean, Benjamin E., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Dean, Seth, private, Cabot's Art.
Deere, Elias H., private, 12th Regt., Co. C; wounded.
Delawney, Michael, private, 9th Regt., Co. C.
Denbroeder, Adrainus, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Denton, Samuel C, musician, 56th Regt., Co. A.
Derby, Alden, private, 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Derby, Franklin, sergt., 4th Cav., Co. B.
Derby, George, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Derby, Loring W., sergt., 12th Regt., Co. H.
Derby, Thomas, Jr., sergt., 42d Regt., Co. A.
Deselit, Louis.
Deshon, Jason L., sergt., 12th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Doble, George H., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Doherty, Bernard, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Donahoe, Stephen, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Donnelly, Frank, private, 9th Regt. ;   killed.
Donnelly, J. Michael, private, 28th Regt.; killed,
Donavon, Malachi, private, 9th Regt.; deserted.
Donovan, Michael, navy.
Doran, Daniel, private, 33d Regt.
Downey, Thomas, private, 16th Regt.
Duffy, Richard, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Dunbar, Charles II., lieut., 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Dunbar, David, corp., 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Dunbar, James D., private, 12th Regt., Co. H; prisoner.
Dunbar, Warren, private, 12th Regt., Co. E.
Dunbar, Willard J., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Dunn, John, corp., 14th Regt., Co. K.
Duvall, Lewis, private, 32d Regt., Co. A; deserted.
Dyer, William H., private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Earl, Daniel C, corp., 42d Regt., Co. A.
Early, Edward, navy.
Estes, Eli H., corp., 42d Regt.
Estes, Herbert E., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Estes, Samuel, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Fahey, Edward A., sergt., 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Fairbanks, George E., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Fairbanks, Gerry, private, 16th Light Bat.
Farmer, Charles H., private. Signal Corps.
Farmer, William H., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Farren, G. W., private, 4th Cav., Co. B; prisoner.
Faulkner, Harrison, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
 - 249 - 
232               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Fearing, Israel J., private, 14th Kegt., Co. F; prisoner and died.
Fennell, Jame8, private, 42d Kegt., Co. A.
Fennel], John, sergt., 25th Kegt., Co. A; wounded.
Fitzgerald, Patrick, private, 11th Regt. ;   killed,
Fleming, Michael, private, 11th llegt. ;   killed.
Flynn, John, navy.
Fogarty, William, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Ford, Charles T., private, 3d Heavy Art.
Ford, James B., private, 19th Kegt., Co. I; wounded.
Ford, Joseph B., wagoner, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Ford, Michael, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Forrest, Michael A., private, 2d Regt., Co. I.
Foss, Benjamin F., private, 11th Kegt., Co. F.; killed.
Fox, Owen, private, 42d Regt., Co.'  A.
Foye, Samuel S., private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Fraher, Patrick, private, 2d Heavy Art., Co. D; prisoner and died.
French, George W., corp., 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
French, Samuel L., private, 12th Regt., Co. H; died.
Furness, John.
Gamage, Theodore A., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Gammons, Frederick, private, 85th Regt., Co. H; prisoner and died.
Gannett, Charles E., sergt., 35th Regt., Co. H; died.
Gannett, Joseph H., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Gardner, Edward B., larivate, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Gardner, George L., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Gardner, Henry A., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Gardner, Jacob, Jr., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Gardner, Jason, musician, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Garey, AndreAV J.,  capt., 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Garvin, Edward, private, 33d Regt.
Gay, John O., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Gay, Samuel E., sergt., 42d Regt., Co. A.
Gerrold, Alexander M., navy.
Gibbs, Benjamin S.,  private, 12th Regt., Co. E; wounded.
Gibbs, ElishaJ., lieut., 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Gillinghan, James R., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Gillinghan, John, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Gloster, Patrick, private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Goldthwait, Charles, private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Goodwin, John M., at Watertown Arsenal.
Goodwin, Samuel D., private, 12lh Regt., Co. D.
Goodwin, William A., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Goodwin, William H., private, Nim's Bat., Co. B.
Gordon, Joseph.
Gorman, John, private, 36th Regt., N. Y., Co. K; wounded.
Gove, Andrew S., at Watertown Arsenal.
Grant, Thomas, private, 12th Regt., Co. D; wounded.
Graves, George D., private, 18th Regt.
 - 250 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              233
Graves, Joshua.
Gunning, AmosJ., private 35th Eegt., Co. H; wounded.
Gustin, George A.
Hackett, Patrick, private, 'Jth Regt.; killed.
Haley, John, navy.
Hall, Edward W., private, 7th Regt., Co. F; died.
Halligan, Edward, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Halloran, James, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Hamilton, Lucius M., musician, 12th Regt., Co. H; died.
Hamilton, Otis R., private, 14th Regt., Co. K.
Hanley, Michael (2d), private, 31st Regt.
Harding, Ellsworth M., private, 4th Regt., Co. C.
Harrington, Isaac N., private, 60th Regt.
Harrington, Minot J., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Harrington, William, private, 1st Heavy Art.
Hart, John W., lieut., 13th U. S. Art.
Hart, Michael, 3d Heavy Art.
Hastings, Charles \V., capt. ,   12th Regt., Co. H; prisoner.
Hawes, Bradford, private, 1st Cav., Co. K.
Hawes, Charles, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Hayden, Albert C, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Hayden, George E., private, 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Hayward, Charles W., private, 28th Regt., Co. G; prisoner.
Hayward, Isaiah T., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Heald, Lysander, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Healy, Cornelius, 12th Regt., Co. A; killed.
Healy, George R., private, 13th Regt., Co. C; died.
Healy, Henry, private, 14th Regt., Co. K; wounded.
Healy, James H., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Healy, "William, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Hennessey, John, private, 3d Regt., U. S.  Reg., Co. E; wounded.
Hersey, Daniel D., private, 32d Regt., Co. F; died.
Hersey, William S.
Hersey, Wilson D., private, 18th Regt., Co. K; died.
Hesse, Augustus, private, 9th Bat.
Hewitt, Henry, private, 4th Cav., Co. B; prisoner and died.
Hickey, Kenneth, private, 12th Regt., Co. E.
Higgins, Lucius.
Higgins, Michael, private, 42d Regt.
Hill, Boyle D., private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Hobart, Otis M., private, 1st U. Heavy Art.
Hobart, Thomas P., corp., 42d Regt., Co. A.
Hobill, Ralph, private, 11th Regt., Co. I;  wounded and died.
Hocking, William H., private,  I4th Regt., Co. K.
Holbi'ook, George, corp., 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Holbrook, Geoi-ge A., piivate, 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Holbrook, Jeremiah, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Holbrook, John Q. A., private, 42d Regt., Co. D.
 - 251 - 
234               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Holbreok, Kichard M., private, 3oth Regt., Co. H.
Holbrook, William, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Holbrook, William A., private, 4th Cav., Co. E; died.
Holbrook, William O., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Hollis, Adoniram B., corp., 3oth Regt., Co. H.
HoUis, Asaph L., private, 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Hollis, George, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Hollis, Henry S., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded and died.
Hollis, Isaac N., Jr., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Hollis, John F., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Hollis, John O., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Hollis, John Q., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Hollis, Leroy S., private, 4th Regt., Co. C.
Holmes Jesse H., private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Holmes, Lyman T., sergt., 35th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Holmes, Marcus M., private, 11th Regt., Co. G; wounded.
Hope, John, private, 24th Regt., Co. K; wounded.
Houghton, Edzel, private, 16th Light Bat.
Houghton, Oliver, private, 16th Light Bat.
Howard, Henry, private.
Humphrey, Clinton C, private, 8th Bat.
Hunt, Henry N., private, 1st U. Heavy Art.
Hunt, James L., private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Hunt, John Q., corp., 35th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Hunt, Samuel W'., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Hunt, Webster W., 4th Heavy Art.
Hunt, William, private, 12th Regt., Co. E.
Jackson, Nelson S., private, 14th Regt., Co. K; prisoner and died.
Jacobs, Daniel, private, 1st Cav.
Jones, Charles G., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Jones, Granville R.
Jones, James G., 1st Heavy Art., Co. M; died.
Jaquith, Reuben, private, 16th Light Bat.
Josephs, Uriel, corp., 42d Regt., Co. A; died.
Joy, George F., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Joy, Walter H., musician, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Joyce, E. L., private, 1st Heavy Art, Co. M; killed.
Keating, Thomas H., musician, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Keep, William J., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Keily, Timothy, private.
Kelley, Thomas, private, 42d Regt., Co. C.
Kendrigan, Edward, private, 3d Cav.
Kenney, Bernard, private, 3d Heavy Art.
Kennison, Benjamin R., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Kerr, Owen, private, 28th Regt., Co. C; wounded.
Kilburn, Charles E., private, 1st Cav.; wounded and supposed dead.
Kimball, Selden, private, 16th Light Bat.
Kingman, Nathan, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
 - 252 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             235
Kirby, Patrick, private, 7th Eegt.
Kittredge, Paul C, private, 12th Regt., Co. H; died.
Knights, Edward, private, 3d Mass. Heavy Art., Co. A.
La Forrest, Frederick, private, 4th Regt.
Lajoye, Joseph, private, 12th Regt., Co. D; killed.
Lamson, Daniel, sergt., 35th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Lane, Parker E.
,
private, 4th Regt., Co. C.
Lane, S. Gushing, engineer, navy.
Lane, Webster, engineer, navy.
Lantz, David J., private, 42d Regt., Co. A; prisoner.
Larmay, Joseph, private, 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Larmay, Leander.
Lary, William, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G-.
Lathrop, Hiram G., private, 12th Regt.
Lathrop, Washington I., private, 13th Regt., Co. F; killed.
Leach, Adnah G., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Leach, Ezra W., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Lemar, Joseph, private, 11th Regt., Co. E; wounded.
Leonard, Alonzo H., corp., 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Leonard, Charles H., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Leonard, Claarles M., private, 11th Regt., Co. F.
Leonard, John, 22d Regt; died.
Lewis, Edward, lieut., 12th Regt., Co. H.
Lewis, George F., private, 12th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Lewis, William A., private, 38th Regt., Co. D; killed.
Lewis, William H., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Lincoln, Daniel, private, 32d Regt., Co. A.
Lincoln, Daniel W., private, 4th Regt., Co. C.
Lincoln, Samuel, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Lindsley, Frederick, at Watertown Arsenal.
Lines, Patrick, private, 24th Regt.
Linnell, Samuel D., private, 2d Heavy Art., Co. L.
Linton, Augustus A., private, 11th Regt., Co. F.
Linton, E. Frank, private, 11th Regt., Co. F.
Littlefield, Lemuel P., private, 14th Regt., Co. K; wounded and died.
Livingston, George H., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Lloyd, Charles S., lieut., 35th Regt., Co. H.
Londergan, Thomas, private, 42d Regt ,   Co. A.
Long, William, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Loring, Benjamin J., 5th Regt., Co. G.
Loring, Charles H., private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Loubey, Edward, private, 11th Regt.; missing.
Loud, Byron W., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Loud, Francis M., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Loud, John A., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Loud, John F., sergt., 32d Regt., Co. F; wounded.
Loud, Josiah E., private, U. Cav., Co. A.
Loud, Livingston W., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
 - 253 - 
236               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Loud, Samuel R,, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Loud, Thomas B., private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Loud, WilUam E., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Lomrey, Daniel E., private, Q'.kl Kegt., N', Y., Co. C; wounded, prisoner,
died.
Lovell, Benjamin S., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Lovell, Frank G., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Lovell, George, private, 16th Regt.
Lovell, Jacob R., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Lovell, James A., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Lovell, William L., private, 42d Regt, Co. A.
Lynch, Patrick, private, 9th Regt., Co. H.
Lyon, George P., capt.; 12th Regt., Co. H.
Macauley, Matthew, private, 12th Regt., Co. H; prisoner.
Mahan, Jerry, private.
Makepiece, Horace M., 42d Regt., Co. D.
Mangon, Charles, private.
Mann, George H., private, .3.5th Regt., Co. H,
Harden, Lewis C, corp., 42d Regt., Co. A; died.
Marden, Newell, private, 29th Regt., Co. H.
Marlow, Peter, private, 1st Regt.
Martin, Edwin, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Mason, Adoniram J., lieut., 35th Regt., Co. H.
May, John D., private, 4tli Heavy Art., Co. G.
Maynard, George F., corp., 12th Regt., Co. H.
McAllister, Samuel A., 16th Regt., Co. G; died.
McArdle, Patrick A., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
McAulilfe, Dennis, private, 9th Regt., Co. I;  killed.
McCarthy, John, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
McCarthy, John, private, 9th Regt., Co. B.
McCauley, Dennis.
McCue, Patrick, private, 14th Regt., Co. H.
McDavitt, William, private, 16th Light Bat.
McGill, John, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; deserted.
McGill, Stephen, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
McGrath, Michael, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
McGuire, James, private.
McGuire, Patrick, private, 9th Regt., Co. K.
McGuire, Thomas, private, 9th Regt., Co. I.
McKenzie, Daniel B., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
McMakens, John, private, 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
McMorrow, Charles J., private, 11th Regt., Co. G; wounded.
Merchant, William F., private, 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Miller, Alonzo R., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Mitchell, George VV., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Mitchell, William, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Moore, Martin P., private, 16th Light Bat.; died.
Moran, James F., private, 4th Heavv Art., Co. G.
 - 254 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.              237
Moran, William H., private, 3d Heavy Art.
Morgan, Thomas T., private, 11th Regt., Co. E.
Morrell, Charles A., lieut., 35th Regt., Co. H.
Morrell, Charles G., corp., 35th Regt., Co. H.
Morrison, James, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Moulton, Harrison, private, 2d Light Bat., Co. B.
Mmiroe, Alfred C, private, 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Murphy, Eugene.
Murphy, Jeremiah, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Murphy, Martin, private, 9th Regt., Co. B; wounded.
Murphy, Terence, private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Murphy, Timothy.
Murphy, William H., private, 32d Regt., Co. A; wounded.
Nash, Aaron P., Jr., private, 12th Regt., Co. C; wounded..
Nash, Elbridge, private, 44th Regt.
Nash, Franklin A., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Nash, William C, private, 16th Light Bat.
Nightingale, Thomas J., private, 11th Regt., Co. K.
Nolan, Daniel, private, 16th Light Bat.
Nolan, James, private, 16th Light Bat.
Norton, Royal, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
O'Brien, Richard, private, 9th Regt., Co. G.
O'Connell, Maurice, private, 2d Regt.
O'Conner, Timothy, private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
O'Conner, John, private.                                                                          ^
O'Donnell, Patrick, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Orcutt, Augustus E., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; died.
Orcutt, Benjamin H., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Orcutt, Charles, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Orcutt, George O., private, 12th Regt., Co. H; died.
Orcutt, James M., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Orcutt, William, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Osgood, George VV., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Parks, John, private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Parrott, Josiah R., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Parry, John, private, 32d Regt., Co. A.
Pedman, William J., private, 14th Regt., Co. K; wounded.
Perrigo, Charles C.
,
private, 30th Regt.; died.
Perry, George H., navy.
Perry, Henry, private, 22d Regt., Co. F.
Peterson, Alfred, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Pettes, I. D. Howe, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Philbrick, Stephen K., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Phillips, Lewis, private, 24th Regt.
Pierce, David J., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Pierce, Eliot C, major, 13th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Pike, William, private, 25th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Pond, Henry V., private, 60th Regt.
 - 255 - 
238               SKETCH OF WrfYMOUTII.
Pool, Samuel B., private, 42(1 Regt., Co. A.
Pope, Charles A., sergt., 12Ui Regt., Co. II;  wounded and died.
Pope, Clinton F., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Pope, Warren VV., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Porter, Hiram, private, 29lh Regt., Co. G.
Porter, Jonathan K., corp., 12th Regt., Co. 11;  wounded.
Powers, Peter, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Pratt, Asa B., corp., 35th Regt., Co. H.
Pratt, Benjamin (2d), private, 42d Regt., Co. D; prisoner.
Pratt, Benjamin F., brev. brig-gen., 3.5th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Pratt, Benjamin F. (2d), private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Pratt, Benjamin F. (3d), corp., 35th Regt., Co. H; prisoner.
Pratt, Charles, private, 4th Cav.
Pratt, Chester D.
,
private, 1st Cav.
Pratt, Francis B., capt., 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Pratt, Francis S., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Pratt, George 11., private, 24th Regt.
Pratt, George Hiram, private, 2d Cav., Co. C.
Pratt, Henry, private, 4th Cav. ,   Co. G.
Pratt, Henry F., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Pratt, James, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; died.
Pratt, Josiah H., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Pratt, J. Quincy, private, 4th Cav., Co. B; killed.
Pratt, Leander.
Pratt, Leonard, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Pratt, Leonard F., corp., 12th Regt., Co. H; died.
Pratt, Samuel, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Pray, Samuel, private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Prouty, Elijah, private, 4th Regt., Co. C; died.
Prouty, Oliver B., private, 12th Regt., Co. H,
Pry, Thomas W., private, 3d Heavy Art.
Puffer, James £., private, 32d Regt., Co. F; killed.
Putillow, Frank A., private, 4th Cav.; died.
Quinn, Jeremiah, private, 42d Regt., Co. D.
Rand, James W., private, 59th Regt., Co. I.
Randall, Martin L., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Ray, William N., navy.
Raymond, Bela T., private, 42d Regt., Co. I.
Raymond, Benjamin, private, 42d Regt., Co. I.
Raymond, Chai-les W., private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Raymond, Horace B.
Raymond, James G., 4th Cav., Co. D; died.
Raymond, James G., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Raymond, T. H., private, 41h Regt., Co. C.
Raymond, Thomas W., private, 4tli Cav., Co. E.
Raymond, Walter B.
Rea, John D., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Rea, William M., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
 - 256 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Eeamy, Joseph, private, 4th Cav., Co. E.
Eeckards, Wiuslow M., corp., 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Eedmond, Charles S., private, 42d Kegt., Co. A.
Remington, Foster.
Rennard, Henry F., private, 3d Cav.; killed.
Reed, Franklin, private, 4th Cav., Co. B; prisoner.
Reed, Matthew, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Reed, Salmon, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Reed, Thomas, private, 60th Regt.
Reynolds, William H., private, 4th Cav., Co. E.
Rice, Stephen L., private, 16th Light Bat.
Rice, Urban, navy.
Rice, William P., sergt., 35th Regt, Co. H.
Ricliards, Benjamin F., corp., 12th Regt., Co. H.
Richards, Charles L., private, 18tli  Regt., Co. H; wounded and died.
Richards, Charles N., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Richards, David P., private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Richards, George W., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Richards, Samuel M., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Richards, William H., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Richardson, Emery, private, lltli Regt., Co. F.
Richardson, F. P.
Riley, Michael, private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Riley, Timothy, private, 11th Regt., Co. D; deserted.
Ritchie, Henry, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; died.
Roachman, John, private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Robbins, Charles H., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded and died.
Robbins, Christopher C, private, 3d Md. Kegt., Co. D; wounded.
Robinson, Benjamin F., corp., 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Robinson, Wilber F., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Robinson, William H., private, 18th Kegt., Co. K.
Rockwood, Elisha K., heut., 4th Heavy Art., Co. G; wounded.
Rogers, Daniel F., 12th Ri^gt., Co. H; prisoner and died.
Ross, Samuel J., private, 38th Regt., Co. K.
Rowe, James, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; died.
Rowley, Edward, private, 9th Regt., Co. C.
Ruggles, George, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Ryan, John, 3d Cav., Co. C.
Ryan, Timothy, private, 28th Regt., Co. D; wounded.
Sampson, John M.
,
private, 1st U. Heavy Art.
Sargent, Edward W., private, 16th  Light Bat.
Sargent, George W., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Sargent, Walter H.
Scully, John, private, 9th Bat.
Shannahan, Jeremiah, private, 16th Regt.
Shannahan, William, private, 20th Regt.
Shaw, Augustus E., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Shaw, Austin B., private, 14th Regt., Co. K; wounded.
 - 257 - 
240              SKEtCn OF WEYMOUTH.
Shaw, E. Fixxon, private, 4tli Heavy Art., Co. G.
Siiaw, Georfre, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Shaw, Gilbert M., corp., 42d llejft., Co. A.
Shehan, Dennis, private, 16th Regt.; killed.
Shepherd, Joseph E., private, 13Ui Regt., Co. F.
Shergold, Nehemiah, private, 12th Regt.
Simpson, Oliver E., private, 1st Regt., Co. I;  killed.
Skinner, Robert G., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Slason, William T., corp., 42d Regt., Co. A.
Slatterly, Edward, private, 12th Regt. ,   Co. C; wounded.
Slatterly, John G., private, 12th Regt., Co. H; probably killed.
Slatterly, Patrick, 42d Regt., Co. B.
Smiledge, Alfred E., private, 42d Regt, Co. A.
Smiledge, John S., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Smith, Bernard, navy.
Smith, Cornelius, navy.
Smith, Frank, VVatertown Arsenal.
Smith, James, navy.
Smith, Jason, Jr., private, .35th Regt., Co. H; died.
Smith, John, private, 12th Regt.
Smith, John (2d), navy.
Smith, Richard B., sergt., 12th Regt., Co. H.
Smith, William W., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Snell, William, 20th Regt., Co. A.
Spear, Albert A., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Spear, Charles H., private, lltb Regt., Co. F.
Spear, Josiah Q., corp., 35th Regt., Co. H.
Spear, Richard, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Spencer, Jeremiah, private, 18th Regt., Co. K.
Spinney, Flarris H., corp., l'.^th Regt., Co. H; wounded and prisoner.
Spooner, William A., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Springer, Samuel B., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Stackpole, Oliver B., private, 42d Regt., Co. A; died.
Starbuck, George, private, 2d Regt., Co. I; died.
Stevens, James H., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Stoddard, Addison, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Stoddard, Elbridge I., sergt., 12th Regt., Co. H.
Stoddard, Henry A., private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Stoddard, John H., private, 42d Regt., Co. D.
Stoddard, Sargent L., private, 42d Regt., Co. D; prisoner.
Stone, William E., private, 2d Cav., Co. I.
Sutton, Reuben.
Swan, Gideon R., 20th U. Heavy Art.
Sweares, Henry, private, 12th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Sweeny, Robert, navy.
Sweeting, Putnam I., private, 24th Regt., Co. F.
Taylor, Joseph F., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Thayer, George R., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
 - 258 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             241
Thayer, John Q. A., private, 12th Kegt., Co. H; prisoner.
Thayer, Joseph W., private, 12th Regt., Co. H; wounded,
Thayer, Nathaniel A., private, 12th Eegt., Co. E.
Thayer, JST.  W., private, 12th Regt., Co. H; prisoner and died.
Thayer, Samuel G., private, 12th Eegt., Co. C; prisoner.
Thayer, Stillman, private, 35th Eegt., Co. H.
Thayer, Watson, sergt., 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Thayer, William G., private, 12th Eegt., Co. E; wounded.
Thomas, Albert, private, 4th Eegt., Co. C.
Thomas, Allen, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Thomas, Benjamin F., private, 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Thomas, Edwin, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Thomas, Edwin (2d), capt., 3d U. Heavy Art.
Thomas, Francis L., lieut., 12th Eegt., Co. H; killed.
Thomas, Isaac, private, 12th Eegt., Co. H.
Thomas, John, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Thomas, Leonard, private, 12th Eegt., Co. H.
Thomas, Minot A., private, 12th Eegt., Co. H,
Thomas, Nelson, sergt., 42d Eegt., Co. A,
Thompson, Harrison G., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Thompson, Josiah, Jr., private, 12th Eegt., Co. H; killed.
Thompson, Sumner, private, 16th Light Bat.; died.
Thompson, Zenas M., private, 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Tirrell, Albert H., lieut., 1st Cav.
Tirrell, Albert J., private, 14th Eegt., Co. K.
Tirrell, Alfred W., lieut., 35th Eegt., Co. H; wounded.
Tirrell, Augustus, private, 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Tirrell, E. P., private, 3d Heavy Art.
Tirrell, Ebenezer, Jr., sergt., 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Tirrell, Edwin F., sergt., 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Tirrell, Francis B., private, 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Tirrell, Franklin, corp., 32d Eegt., Co. F; died.
Tirrell, George W., private, 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Tirrell, John W., private, 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Tirrell, Levi, private, 12th Eegt.
Tirrell, Major, private, 33d Eegt.; wounded.
Tirrell, Wan-en, private, 42dEegt., Co. A.
Tirrell, Winfield B., corp., 42d Eegt., Co. A.
Tomalty, Owen, private, 63d Eegt., N. Y., Co. B.
Toombs, Eliot L., private.
Torrey, Appleton H., private, 11th Eegt., Co. B.
Torrey, Benjamin F., private, 12th Eegt., Co. C.
Torrey, Charles D., sergt., 1st U. Heavy Art.
Torrey, Charles L., private, 32d Eegt., Co. A.
Torrey, James L., private, 35th Eegt., Co. H.
Torrey, Joseph E., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Torrey, Joshua L., private, 1st Cav., Co. A.                   [died.
Torrey, Lorenzo, private,  12th Eegt., Co. H; wounded, prisoner, and
16
 - 259 - 
242               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
Torrey, Naaman, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; died.
Torrcy, Naaman J., private, 35th Regt., Co. II.
Torrey, Noaii W., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Torrey, Richard L., private, 11th Regt., Co. B; wounded and supposed
Ifilled,
Torrey, Richmond, private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Torrey, Sumner P., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Torrey, Turner, private, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Totman, Elmer H., private, 2d Heavy Art., Co. D.
Totman, Irving J., private, 2d Heavy Art., Co. C; died.
Townsend, William, private, 1st U. Heavy Art.
Tracy, Patrick, private, 3d Heavy Art.
Trask, Joseph, private, 29th U. Heavy Art.
Trott, Charles R., corp., 42d Regt., Co. A.
Trufant, Edgar IL, private, 85th Regt., Co. H,
Trufant, Edward F., private, 11th Regt., Co. F; killed.
Turner, Waldo, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded,
Tyndall, John, private 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Vance, William, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Viger, Joseph, musician, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Vining, Adoniram E., private, 14th Regt., Co. F; prisoner.
Vining, Alonzo, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Yining, Andrew J., private, 24th Regt., Co. K.
Vining, Daniel, drummer, 35th Regt., Co. H.
Vining, George H., private, 14th Regt., Co. F.
Vining, George W., corp., 12th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Vining, N. F., private, 4th Cav., Co. E.
Vining, Solon A., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Vining, William A., private, 1st Cav., Co. I.
Vogel, Henry B., 4tli Heavy Art., Co. G.
Walker, Edwin, private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Walker, George, private, 12th Regt., Co. F; wounded and died.
Walker, Isaac H., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Walker, Roscius R., Watertown Arsenal.
Wall, Patrick, private, 11th Regt., Co. B.
Walsh, Michael, private, 12th Regt.
Ward, James, private, 3d Heavy Art.
Ward, Patrick, private, 3d Heavy Art.
Ware, Lawrence A., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
Warren, Ephraim L., major, 22d Regt.
Weed, Otis H., Jr., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Weeks, James, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Weeks, Nathan, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Welch, James (3d), private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Wendall, James C, private, 42d Regt, Co. A.
Whelan, EdmundB., private, 3d Regt. U. S. Regulars, Co. E; prisoner.
Whelan, John H., Heut., 12lh Regt., Co. H.
Whitcomb, John M., private, 4th Regt., Co. C.
 - 260 - 
SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.             243
White, Benjamin, private, 1st Eegt.
White, Calvin T., private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
White, Cliarles H.. private, 4tli Heavy Art., Co. G.
White, Francis E., lieut., 4th N. Y. Cav., Co. G.
White, Herbert, Watertown Arsenal.
White, Henry, sergt., 42d Regt., Co. A.
White, Frederick R., private, 38th Regt., Co. A.
White, J. Francis, 1st Heavy Art., Co. C.
White, James, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
White, Patrick, private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
White, Robert H., musician, 12th Regt., Co. H.
White, Robert S., musician, 12th Regt., Co. H.
White, Sanford, private, 38th Regt., Co. A.
White, Warren F., private, 3d Heavy Art.
White, William, lieut., 85th Regt., Co. H; wounded.
MHiiting, Charles D., private, 1st U. Heavy Art.
Whiting, Harrison, private, 12th Regt., Co. H; prisoner.
Whitman, Theron W., private, 60th Regt.
Whitmarsh, John Q., private, ISth Regt., Co. C; killed.
Whitmarsh, Peter, private, 16th Light Bat.
Whitney, Edwin, private, 4th Heavy Art., Co. G.
Whittemore, William, private, 32d Regt.
Wilber, Charles C.
Willet, G. F., private, 4th Cav.; wounded and died.
Williams, Charles S., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Williams, Eugene S., private, 4th Cav., Co. B; killed.
Williamson, Joseph, private, 14th Regt., Co. K; woundedand died.
Willis, Stephen R., corp., 35th Regt., Co. H; killed.
Winslow, Joseph B., sergt., 12tli Regt., Co. H.
Winslow, Nathan P., private, 35th Regt., Co. H; wounded and died.
Woodward, Sylvester R., private, 42d Regt., Co. A.
Worster, E. Frank, Watertown Arsenal.
Wright, C. Wesley, private, 4th Cav., Co. B; prisoner.
Wright, Henry, private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Wright, William H., navy.
Wrightington, Judah, private, 18th Regt., Co. C.
Young, Benjamin M., private, 12th Regt., Co. H.
Young, Job, private, 16th Light Bat.
 - 261 - 
 - 262 - 
APPENDIXES.
 - 263 - 
 - 264 - 
APPENDIX A.
[Page 26.]
The following is a list of this company that came in
with Key. Joseph Hull:   —
*' Waymoutli
y20th of        BOUND FOR NEW ENGLAND.
March 1635
1   JosephHall [HulP] of Somerss*a Minist aged 40 yeare
2   Agnis hall his Wife aged 25 y"^^
3  Joane Hall his daughf aged 15 yeare
4  Joseph Hall his soane aged 13 yeare
5   Tristram his son aged 11 yeare
6  Elizabeth Hall his daughf aged 7 yeare
7   Temperance his daught"^ aged 9 yeare
8   Gressell Hull his daught"^ aged 5 yeare
9   Dorothy Hull his daughf aged 3 yeare
10  Judeth French his srvaunt aged 20 yeare
11  John Wood his srvaunt aged 20 yeare
12  Eobt Dabyn his srvaunt aged 28 yeare
13  Musachiell Bernard of batcombe Clothier of the County
Somersett 24 yeare
14  Mary Bernard his wife aged 28 yeare
15  John Bernard his sonne aged 3 yeare
16  Nathaniell his sonne aged 1 yeare
17  Rich. Persons Salter & his srvant :   30 :    yeare
18  Francis Baber Chandler aged 36 yeare
19  Jesope Joyner aged 22 yeare
20  Walter Jesop Weaver aged 21 yeare
21   Timothy Tabor in  Somss* of Batcombe taylor aged 35
yeares
['It will be noticed that, by a mistake of the oflScer who made out the
list, the name is spelled Hall until Gressell is reached, when it is corrected.
Agnes was the second wife, married shortly before the emigration.]
 - 265 - 
248               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
22  Jane Tal)or his wife aged 35 yeare
23  Jane Tabor his daugh'' aged 10 yeare
24  Anne Tabor his daughf aged 8 yeare
25  Sarah Tabor his daughf aged 5 yeare
26  Williu Fever his srvauut aged 20 yeare
27  Jn" Whitmarsk aged 39 yeare
28  Alee Whitmarke his Wife aged 35 yeare
29  Jm° Whitmarcke his sonne aged 11 yeare
30  Jane his daughf aged 7 yeare
31  Onseph Whitmarke his sonne aged 5 yeare
32  Rich :    Whytemark his sonne aged 2 yeare
33  Willra  Eead of Batcombe Taylor in Somss' aged 28
yeare
34
35  Susan Read his Wife aged 29 yeare
36  Hanna Read his daugh" aged 3 yeare
37  Susan Read his daughf aged 1 yeare
38  Rich :    Adams his srvante 29 yeare
39  Mary his Wife aged 26 yeare
40  Mary Cheame his daughf aged 1 yeare
41  Zachary Bickewell aged 45 yeare
42  Agnis Bickwell his Wife aged 27 yeare
43  Jn° Bickwell his sonne aged 11 yeare
44  Jn° Kitchin his servaunt 23 yeare
46  George Allin aged 24 yeare
47  Katherin Allyn his Wife aged 30 yeare
48  George Allyn his sonne aged 16 yeare
49  WilM Allyn his sonne aged 8 yeare
50  Mathew Allyn his sonne aged 6 yeare
51  Edward Poole his srvant aged 26 yeare
52  Henry Kingman aged 40 yeare
63  Joane his wife beinge aged 39
54  Edward Kingman his son aged 16 yeare
55  Joane his daughf aged 11 yeare
56  Anne his daughf aged 9 yeare
57  Thomas Kingman his sonne aged 7 yeare
58  John Kinghman his sonne aged 2 yeare
59  J" Ford his servaunt aged 30 yeare
60  William Kinge age 40 yeare
 - 266 - 
APPENDIX A.                         249
61  Dorothy his "Wife aged 34 yeare
62  Mary Kinge his daughf aged 12 yeare
63  Katheryn his daught"^ aged 10 yeare
64  Willni Kinge his sonne aged 8 yeare
65  'Hanna Kinge his daughf aged 6 yeare
66  Thomas Holbrool^e of Broadway aged 34 yeare
67  Jane Holbroolie his wife aged 34 yeare
68  John Holbrooke his sonne aged 11 yeare
69  Thomas Holbrooke his sonne aged 10 yeare
70  Anne Holbrooke his daughf aged 5 yeare
71  Elizabeth his daughf aged 1 yeare
72  Thomas Dible husbandin aged 22 yeare
73  Francis Dible Soror aged 24 yeare
74  Robert Lovell husbandman aged 40 yeare
75  Elizabeth Lovell his wife age 35 year
76  Zacheus Lovell his sonne 15 yeares
78  Anne Lovell his  daughf aged 16 yeare
79  John Lovell his sonne aged 8 yeare
Ellyn his daughf aged 1 yeare
80  James his sonne aged 1 yeare
81  Joseph Chickin his servant 16 yeare
82  Alice Kinham aged 22 yeare
83  Angell Hollard aged 21 yeare
84  Katheryn his Wife 22 yeare
85  George Land his servaunt 22 yeare
86  Sarah Land his kinswoman 18 yeare
87  Richard Joanes of Dinder
88  Rob* Martyn of Babcombe husbandm 44
89  Humfrey Shepheard husbandm 22
90  John Upham husbandman 35
91  Joane Martyn 44
92  Elizabeth Upham 32
93  John Upham Jun 07
94  William Grane 12
95   Sarah Upham 26
96  Nathaniell Upham 05
97  Elizabeth Upham 03
98  Dorss' Richard Wade of Simstuly Cop aged 60
99  Elizabeth Wade his Wife 6
 - 267 - 
250               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
100  Dinah his daughf 22
101  Ilenry Lush his srvant aged 17
102  Andrew Hallett his srvaunt 28
103  John hoble husbandm 13
104  Edb* Huste husbandin 40
105  John Woodcooke 2
106  Eich :   Porter husband 3
JOHN PORTER, Deputy
Cleark to Edw:
Thoroughgood.
The above is from the " NewEngland Historical and
Genealogical Register," Yol. XXY.pp. 13, 14, 15, Jan-
uary, 1871, and is headed as follows: —
MORE PASSENGERS EOR NEW ENGLAND.
[Communicated by William S. Appleton, A. M., of Boston, Mass.']
" The following has just been received from our asso-
ciate member:  —
London, Sept. 1870.
My dear Mr. Appleton, —
Amongst a bundle of miscellaneous manuscripts just turned
up in  the  Public Record Office, I find, with other documents
relating  to  New England, the  following  list  of passengers,
which I have the pleasure of sending to you for publication in
the Register.
I remain, Yours very truly,
H. G. SOMERBY."
It will be noticed how small a proportion of these
families became permanent residents in the  town, only
six  of the twenty-one being found there less  than a
generation later.
 - 268 - 
APPENDIX B.                         251
APPETOIX B.
[Page 28.]
The following copy ofthe original deed of the terri-
tory  of Weymouth given by the  Indians  is  copied
literally from  the  town records, and differs in many
details, although the  same in  essential matters, with
that entered upon the Suffolk Record of Deeds.  This
seems to be the older record, while that in Boston was
entered in 1685:  —
" An Agreem''  Betweene    Inhabitants off Wamouth
CONCERNING THERE LaND SOLD NOW TO    ToWNB OFF
Wamouth
This presente yeare 1642 y" 26^'*  orr y^ 2" m°.
Know all  men by theese presents y* whereas we "Wampetuc
alias Josias Webcowett Nateaunte and Nahauton did formerly
possess and retaine y® Land of Wessagussett now cald Wamouth
we whose names are above written whoe are now y®     owners
of  y^  afores''  Land ot  y^  Towne now cald  Wamouth viz
:
Wampetuc alias  Josias Webcowett Nateaunte and Nahauton
As we had it  given to us fro  our predecessors viz :    a greate
Sagamore cald Wampetuc We doe hereby declare and publish
to all men y' ffor & in  consideration y' we y^ aforesd persons
have reed from y® English men whoe are now planted In &
about y' place of Wessagusset (now cald Wamouth) Sixe Acors
off  ground empayld & broken up  and one  house as  also
fowre and Twentye Acors of ground lying neare y® small pond
neare y® plantation or Towne now cald Wamouth.  In Con-
sideration whereoff we y* aforesd p'sons have and doe  ffully
give and graunte assigne sett over and absolutely yeald up all
y'  afores**  ground before  spoken off and all  y'  estate right
title  Interest possessione benefitt  claime and demaund y* we
y*  aforesd p'tyes or any off  us had may might or  ought to
 - 269 - 
252               SKETCH OF WEYMOUXn.
have in or to     sd premises or  any p'te  or  p'cel  thereoff:
And this is our fTull  interest y* y^ aforesd p'sons shall hould to
y and theres fforever all y* ground
And hereby we doe ffully and ffreely declare y' we are ffully
satisfied  flbr our  former Interest  And doe  now account y®
English now living  there in  y'  Towne off Wamouth y® true
and p'p owners of y® Bounds off y*^"'*  Towne according to y®"
Limits ordered by y^ Generall  Courte   And hereby we doe
publish to all y* we bind our selves and ours forever to main-
teine  this  our  dede and sale  to  y® presente  inhabitants  of
wamouth forerly cald  wessagusset and to  y^" posteritie ffor
ever :   And for as much as now y® Aforesd groundis nowbecome
y*^ true propietie off y® presente inhabitants off y® aforesd place
to  y and y'^''*'   forever  we y^  aforesd p'sons  above  specified
doe account our selves now inhabitants off y® Towne & j^'^ fore
to enjoy all  privilidges with y & noe other than y selves enjoy
and doe p'miss y* we will live  orderly among y iff y''^ receive
any daage through our abode with y either by our dogs traps
or otherwise we will ffully recopence y® damage as y^ English
in y* Towne y* are Towne dwellei's doe  In witness whereoff
wee have sett our hands
James Parker      The 5 marke off Wampetuo & y'
Well :    Jefferat    The^ marke off Webcowett
"WrLLrM Carpenter  The n  marke off Nateaunte
John Uppame      The \/ marke off Nahauton
Thomas White
In presence of us
Edward Bennett
James Luddon
C mark of T H
c Tho® Holbrooke
The following is entered onthe margin of the deed: —
Dated 3 1  1652
An agreemt made with Natahant in y^ behalfe of y® Indians
that have right to  24 acors of planting land which land they
were to have by y® ffresh Pond neere the Towne which land y"
sd Natahant is content to take for himselfe and the Rest of the
 - 270 - 
APPENDIX B.                        253
Indians that  have right  to this  land aboue Smilt Brooke to
which agree™' I    aboue s*^  Natahant have set my hand
The °-s marke off Natahant in y® presence off us Townsmen
John Rogers
John holbrok
Thomas Holbrooke
Cap* John Holbrook aged about 66 years testify  & saith
that he was present and did see Natahant an Indian signe &
acknowledge this writing aboue to be his Act & Deed &that he
this deponent w"' the other witnesses (Selectmen of the Towne
of Weymoth) sett their hands as witnesses.
Sworne in Boston July 9"^,  1685.
Before us,
John Eichards ;
Elisha Cooke.
The 7* day of July, 1685 James Ludden Senior of Way-
moth in New England aged :    74 yeares ;    whose Name is Sub-
scribed as the onely Surviving witness to  this  Deed of Sale
made by the Indians of y® Towne of Waymoth as on the other
side doth ffully appeare ;   he the said James Ludden p'rsonally
apeared before me under writt and on his Corporall oathe de-
posed That he saw the said Indians who were y^ Grantors of y®
Land herein mentioned signe & Deliver this Deed of Sale to
y* use of the Inhabitants of said Towne of waymoth and theire
posteritie fforever :   Andthat he was present when James Parker
and the Rest of the witnesses Subscribed their Names hereunto :
Taken upon oath the Day & yeare aboue written before me
William Torrey appointed to Administer oathes  by the Gen*^
Court.
Lib :    13'" page 349 & a
Enteredwiththe Records of the Countyof Suffolke for Deeds.
lO'^" July :   1685
Atteste Is* Addington, Clke."
 - 271 - 
254               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
APPENDIX C.
[Page 29.]
The following  from the town records  must have
been compiled not earlier than Oct. 26, 1642, the  date
of the death of William Fry, whose daughters are named
among the property owners, and May 21, 1644, the date
of the deed of Thomas Dyer to Thomas Bayley, con-
veying a grant of the property described as belonging
to  him.  There is  reason to  believe that the original
record was made by Kev. Samuel ^Newman: —
The land of Edward Bate
Tenn akeres of uppland in  the  East field  first  granted to
others  Gould  now in  possession  of  Edward  Bate
bounded on the  East with  a  lot of Robert Randoll on the
west with a Cedar swampe on the north with Jeffry Staples
lot on the south with Nathaniel Addames his lot
fibwer Akerss first  granted to Will Smith now in the pos-
session  of Edward Bate bounded on the East & north by a
swampe on the West by a highway on the South by m'' New-
manes lot
Eyght akers upon the plaine three acres of it  first  giuen to
John Upham 3 acres to William ftrie two acres to John Whit-
marsh now in the possession of Edward Bate bounded on the
East wh Nicholas Whites lott  on the  West wh the  hiway
on the north wh the trayning greene on the South wh a swamp
flfower acres of Swamp 2 acres of it first giuen to m"^ William
Jeffereyes and 2 acres to Eichard Siluester bounded on the East
with Richard Adames his lot on the West with his owne lot on
the North with m"^  Newmans swampe on the South with the
Wachhouse Hill
On acre of Salt marsh first giuen to William Richards now in
the possession of Edward Bate bounded on East with m''  Glou-
 - 272 - 
APPENDIX 0.                           255
eres marsh on the west with m' Newmans marsh on the north
with Nicholas Phillipes marsh on the South by the common
Halfe an acre of fresli marsh giuen to Edward Bate bounded
on the  East with the greate  Swampe on the  west with  m'
Gloueres on the north with the high way on the  South with
Ealph Shepperds lot   Giuen to  Edward Bate halfe an acre of
marsh upon grape Hand,
The land of John Allin
ffive  acres on the plaine first  granted to Thomas Applegate
bounded on the  East by a lot  of  Joseph  Shawes on the
East & South with on the West by Ralph Allins lot  the sea
on the north  two acres  at  the same bounded with  the  sea
Eyght acres on the wester necke the land of Henry Kingman
on the East Thomas Holbrooke on the west the common on
the north first grantedto George Allin  Two acres and a quarter
twelve Rod of meddow in the  Wester neck first  giuen to
George Allin bounded on the East with the marsh of Richard
Siluester  on the  west with the marsh of William  firie  the
sea on the north the land of Henry Kingman on the South
The land of Joseph Shaw
Six  acres  in  the  Wester neck  3  acres  of it  first  giuen
to  John  Berstow  buting  upon  the  sea  East  and  north
the  land of John King on the South the other 3  acres first
granted to  Richard Porter the former 3 acres  adioyning on
the west and the  land  of John Allin on the  north  the  sea
on the east Ralfe AUines land on the South  Three acres upon
KingOkehill first granted to John WhitmarshRichard Addames
land on the East John Reades on the west the highway on the
north the land of John Harding on the south
The land of Walter Harris
An acre  and  a  halfe  in  the  west  ffield   first   giuen  to
Robert Louell bounded on the  north  by the  land  of John
Whitman on the  East by the  streete  on the south by the
land of Robert Louell on the  west by the  land  of Thomas
Doget   Eyght acx'es  lying in  Harrises Raing first  giuen to
 - 273 - 
256               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
Walter Harris  being  a tryangle hounded on the East hy a
swampe on the south by the  land of John Upham and on the
west l)y a swampe  Eyght acres in the mill furlonge first given
to him the saied Walter Harris bounded on the East bythe land
of Richard Siluester on the west by the land of Thomas Eider
on the south by the land of Phillip Reade
TiiE LAND OF Nicholas White
ffower  acres  upon  the  plaine  3  acres  first   giuen  to
Steephen firench  the  other  first  giuen  to  John Whitmarsh
the land  of John Ozborn on the East the  land  of Edward
Bate to  the  west the  trayning  greene  on  the  north  the
swampe on the south filve  acres upon the plaine 3 acres of it
first granted to William Smith and two acres to John Rogeres
the lane that ledeth to  the  trayning greene on the East the
land of Nicholas Phillipes on the west the trayning greene on
the north Nicholas Phillips on the south  an acre and halfe the
swampe on the East the land of Edward Poole on the south the
high-way on the west
an acre of salt marsh first granted to  William Richards the
marsh of     Glouer on the East of Nicholas Phillipes on the
west and north the necke on the south foweracres in the swampe
The land of John Hollester
Two acres  and halfe  in  the  west  Afield  first  granted  to
William Howland bounded on  east  west and  south  by the
hiewayes  and  on the  north  by the land of Edward Smith
fibwer  acres  in  Harrises  Rainge  first  granted  to  William
Howland bounded on the East by the highway on the West
against a little Swampe on the north by the land of William
Carpenter on the South the land of Thomas Clifton on the north
The land of John Buege
Two acres  in  Harrises  Rainge  first  granted  to  Mesechill
Barnard buting on the East upon a little  swampe on the west
upon a  swampe the  land of m"^  Webb on the south of John
Upham on the north
 - 274 - 
APPENDIX O.                          257
The land op Aingell Hollaed
ffive acres in the East Afield first granted to  him bounded on
the East by the land of Thomas Rawlines on the west by the
millway William Read on the North and Thomas Streame on
the South
Eyght acres in the East ffield first granted to WidowStreame
Nathaniel Addames his meddow on the East the mill waie on
the west on the north with a  lot  that  was granted to Joane
Richardes and Steephen fFrench on the south
Three acres granted first to Joane Richardes the mill waie on
the west and lying  north and south  Two acres and halfe of
medow at hocklie at first granted to  Clement Brigges bounded
with a creek and Edward Bennetes marsh on the  East and
Steephen ffrench his lot on the west
Twenty three acres amongst the great lotes bounded with the
hingam line one the East and south the marsh of m"^  Richards
on the north  m'' Richards his lot on the west
The land of William Reade
Eyght acres and halfe in  the East field at first giuen to him
the land of Thomas Rawlines on the East of Richard Addames
on the west the swampe on the north the Streete on the south
Eyght acres and halfe in the Wester neck the land of Richard
Siluester on the East of Edward Smith on the west the High-
waie that ledeth to Siluesteres on the  north the  commons on
the south  Twoacres of salt marsh in the westerneck the marsh
of m"" Jener on the East of Thomas White on the west the land
of William Richardes on the north the  Creek on the south
Sixteene acres amongst the  greate lotes bounded on the East
with a greate pond by the commons on the west
The land of Edward Poole
ffive acres one the plaine the streete on the East the land
of Ralph Allin on the west of Richard Rowland on the north
and of Richard Bowin on the  south
Two acres at the steping stone the swampe on the East the
highway on the west the land of Ralph Shepherd on the north
of    Newman on the south
17
 - 275 - 
258               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
The land of Richard At^dames
Nine acres in tlie East field  first granted to him bounded on
the East with the land of William Reado on the west with the
land of Richard jVewberry tiie swampe on the north the streete
on the south
Fowerteene acres on the wester neck first  granted  to  him
bound on the East with the land of Edward Smith on the west
with the land of William Smith on the north with a Swampe
one the south with the commons
An Acre of Salt Marsh at the wester neck first granted to
William lieade and an acre and halfe  of Upland first granted
to  m"" Busley bounded on the  East by the land of Thomas
White and of William Richardes on the west with the marsh
of Thomas holbrooke on the north with the land of William
Richardes on the south by the Creek that Runes to monotticot
AnAcre of Marsh at burying Hand the land of Robert Martin
on the west with the  sea on the  north with the marsh of m''
Parker of Robert Martin on the south
Three acres of fresh Marsh the marsh of John Harding and
Stephen flrench on the Eastthe medowof Edward Smith on the
west the common on the north and south
An Acre on King oke hill the land the hiewaies at the East
and north endes the land of John Harding and Joseph Shaw on
the north and of Thomas Djer on the south
Twenty fower acres  amongst the greate lotes buted on the
East with a greate pond on the west with the common with
the lot of Richard Siluester on the north with the lot of William
Smith on the south
The land of Robert Randoll
Two acres  in  the  East field  first  granted to  John Gurny
bounded on the East with the land of Edmond hart the hiewaie
on the west the land of Robert Cooke on the  north and of
Nathaniel Addames on the south
Two acres  more in  East field  first  giuen to Edward Bate
bounded on the East with the land of Edmond Harte with the
land of Robert Cooke on the west Nathaniel Addames on the
north and his owne on the south
 - 276 - 
APPENDIX 0.                            259
Three acres more in the East field  first  granted to James
Rogeres bounded with the sea on the East Nathaniel Addames
on the west and south the sea on the north
The land of William Pitty
Ten acres in the Ester neck first granted to him bounded wdth
James Ludines land on the East of Nicholas Phillipes on the
west a Swampe on the north and a hiesvay on the south
three acres of Salt-marsh lyinge neare the mill bounded with
the land of Joseph Torrey on the north the mill on the  south
the mill lot on the west  Five Acres of Upland at london Berge
bounded on the East with the Sea the land of m' Torrie on the
west of m"" Waltham on the north and the Round marsh on the
south
The land of John Burrell
I
Three acres in the Rain2;e first  granted to  Nicholas Norton
bounded with a highwaie on the East the land of Thomas Baylie
on the west the land of Hugh Roe on the north and the land
of Goodman Huo'hes on the south
AnAcre in King oke hill the land of ThomasDyeron the East
and north the hiewaie on the west the land of m'' Webb on the
south
Two acres in the Rainge first  granted to m"^ Robert Jeffery
bounded on the East with a hiewaie on the west with a swampe
on the north with a hiwaie on the south with the land of Thomas
Clifdon
The land of Samuel Newiman
Twenty fower acres  in  the  East fiield  thirteene acres of it
was first granted to  Henry Kingman Seuen of it  to  William
Smith and fower acres  first  to  William Richardes all  of  it
together bounded on the East with a Highway by the meeting-
house the land of Robert Martin on the south salt marsh on the
west the common on the north
Two acres of salt marsh  first  granted to  Henry Kingman
bounded on the East with a swampe on the west with the high-
way the land of Edward Poole on the North and the land of
Edward Bate on the south
Two acres of salt marsh one of them first  granted to Henry
Kingman the other to Thomas White bounded at the East with
 - 277 - 
260               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
the land of Nicholas Pliillipes and Edward Bate westward with
a bridge south with the comon northward with the land of Rich-
ard Bowin
Two acres of swampe bounded on the  East with the East
fieldes on the west with his owne salt marsh on the south with
the swampe of Edward Bate
Twenty acres  of  upland  first  granted to  Henry Kingman
bounded on the south a greate pond on the north with John
Randes marsh
Twenty acres of upland and swampe giuen him by the Towne
bounded on the East with the land of William Hewes the  land
of Thomas Holbrook on the west the Comons on the south
Harrises Rainge on the north
Two acres of wood in a great swampe neere my Howse first
giuen Edward Bate now taken by way of exchange of him for
two acres in the Swampe aforesd aboue specyfied
"
The land of John Taylor
Three acres in the plaine first granted to Robert Louell the
highwaie on the East the land of William Brandon on the south
the land of John fiussell on the north
The land of Richard Newbery
Two acres in  the East field first  giuen to Richard Addames
bounded on the East with the land of Richard Addames on the
west and south with the highwaie on the north with the wach-
house hill
flfive acres in the wester neck first  giuen to m'' Hull bounded
on the East with the land of     Jener on the west with the
land of John Whitman on the north to the Sea on the south
with m"^ Jeneres marsh
The land of Thomas Clifton
Six acres  in  the  west  field  fower  acres  first  granted to
m'' Robert Jefierie and two acres first granted to William Hues
bounded on the East with the highway on the  west  with a
swampe on the north  with  the land of John Burrell on the
south with the land of John Holester
Two acres in Harrises Rainge first  giuen to  Samuel Butter-
 - 278 - 
APPENDIX C.                           261
worth bounded on the East with a swamp on the west with a
swampe on the north with the land of Jacob fFrench on the
south with the land of William Carpenter
The land of Thomas ffoster
Three acres in  the East ffield  first  granted to John Allin
bounded on the East with Jeffery Staples land on the west with
the land of Edward Bate
The land of William Reade
Tenn acres in  the East ffield  three  acres  first  granted  to
Robert Stone three acres of it  to  George Allin fower acres to
Richard Knight bounded on the East with the land of Nathaniel
Addames on the west with the streete on the south with the
land of Aingell holard on the north with the land of Thomas
flfoster
The land of Ralph Allin
Twenty acres  ffirst  granted to  George Allin  lying in  the
Easterneck and three acres meddow adioyning to it bounded on
the East with the land of Richard Bowin on the west with the
sea on the north with the land of Edward Poole on the south
with the sea
Anacre of salt marsh first granted to Thomas White bounded
on the east with the highwaie on the west with his owne marsh
on the north with the highwaie on the south with the sea
fower acres that was first granted to Thomas Rider bounded
on the east with the land of Joseph Shaw on the west with the
land of m"" Glouer on the north and south with the sea
Two acre,?  of salt  marsh first  granted  to  George  Allin
bounded on the east with the marsh of Robert Martin on the
west to the sea on the north to the marsh of m'' Parker on the
south to the marsh of Richard Addames
The land of Edmond Hart
Eleuen acres in the East field  first  granted to him bounded
on the East and west with highwaies on the north with the land
of Thomas Rider on the south with the land of James Snooke
 - 279 - 
262               SKETCn OF WEYMOUTH.
Three acres in Kingokc liill  first  granted to  Aingell Hollard
bounded on the Eiist with a liiffhwaie on the west with the land
of John Upham on the north with the land of Thomas Rider on
the south with the land of m'' Parker  Eyghteene acres amongst
the greate lotes bounded on the East with the great pond on the
west with the comon on the north with the land of Robert Louell
on the south with the land of Thomas Rawlines
The land of James Smith
Three in the Easterneck bounded on the East with the high-
waie the land of Clement Brio:o:es on the west on the north with
the sea on the south with the land of William Hayard
One acre of salt marsh bounded with the sea on the East the
sea on the west the land of William Pitty on the north of
James Ludin the south
The land of John ffussell
Twelve acres and halfe in the plaine six  acres  of it  first
giuen to Robert Able three acres  of it  first giuen to Thomas
Holl)rooke  half an  acre first  giuen  to      Barnard and the
other  three  acors  first  o-iuen  to  William Newland all  of it
bounded on the East with the land of Robert Abell Clement
Weauer and m""  Barnard  on the  west  with the highwaie  on
the north with  a lot  of o-round giuen to m""  Barnard on the
south to the land of John Taylor
The land of Richard Webb
Two acres in  the East field  bought of m''  Robert Lenthall
bound on the East with the land of the Widow Streame on the
north with m''  Newmanes land on the  west with the land of
Robert Martin on the south with the highwaie
Two acres in  Kingoke hill  first  giuen to  Thomas Rawlines
bounded on the east with m''  Parkeres land on the west the
highwaie on the north with the land of John Upham of Phillip
Reades on the south
fSve acres in Harrises  Rainge 3 akres of it  first  giuen to
Masachiell Barnard two of themfirst giuen to John Butterworth
bounded on the east with a highwaie on the west with the land
of John Holester on the north with Jacob ffrench his land
 - 280 - 
APPENDIX C.                           263
An acre and three quarteres in Kingoke hill bounded on the
East with land of Thomas Dyer on the west and south with
highwaie on the north with the land of John Burrell
Six acres and half bought of John Dunford lying in mill field
bounded on the east with land of John Harding on the west
with a highwaie on the south with the land of Dauid Mattoke
Three acres of flresh marsh adioyning to the marsh of Phillip
Reade on the south west side
The land of Nicholas Norton
Six  acres  in mill fiield  3  of them first  giuen to Richard
Addames 3 to Richard Siluester bounded on the east with the
land of m"^ Waltham m'' Richards and Matthew Pratt on the west
of John Gill on the north on the south with the land of Simon
Whitmarsh
Five acres adioyning to John Whitmanes greate lot bounded
on the east with the mill lot on the west to m''  Parkeres lot of
James Naish to the north of John Whitman on the south
The land of John Haeding
Power acres in the west field  two of them first  granted to
Thomas Houlbrooke and the other two to  John Whitmarsh
bounded on the East with the high waie on the west with the
land of Thomas Doget on the north with the land of Robert
Louell on the south with the land of Edward Smith
ffive  acres  on  Kingoke hill  first  granted  to  John Whit-
marsh bounded on the  East with the land of Joseph Shaw
on the west with the highway on the north with the land of
Phillip Reade on the south with the land of Richard Addames
Six acres in the mill field first granted to himselfe bounded on
the East with the  land of  James Naish on the west with a
swampe on the  north with the land of James Naish on the
south with the land of m' Webb and Dauid Mattoke
Two acres and halfe off  fresh Marsh first granted to John
Whitmarsh bounded on  the East with the marsh of Henry
Addames on the East of Richard Addames on the west the
coinon on the north and south
Halfe an acre of fresh marsh more adioyning to it which hee
gaue to  John Whitmarsh  the  sonn  of  the  aforesaid  John
Whitmarsh
 - 281 - 
264               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
The land of Nicholas Onesipherus and RichardWhitmarsh
Nine acres in the westerneck first  giuen to John Whitmarsh
their father deceased bounded on the swampe in tlie  west with
the marsh of John Alhn on the north with a swampe on the
south with the land of John Allin
The land of Simon Whitmarsh
ffower acres and halfe  in the  mill  field  2  acres  and halfe
first granted to John Whitmarsh bounded on the East with a
swampe on the west with the land of William Brandon on the
south with the mill waie on the north with the land of Nicholas
Norton the other  two acres  first  granted  to  John Harding
adioyning to  the six acres of the saied John Harding bounded
on the East and north with the land of James Naish
The land of Richard Waling
ffower acres and halfe on the Back side  of King oke hill 3
acres of it first  granted to John Upham and the other acre and
halfe to hiniselfe bovmded on the East with the commons on the
west with the mill path on the north with the land of George
Allin on the south with the land of William Brandon
Three acres in mill field first giuen to him the land of Jacob
ffrench on the East the comon on the west the land of Hugh
Roe on the north of m'' Parker on the south
on quarter of an acre in the weift fiield first  giue to m'' Hull
bounded on the east with the highwaie on the west and north
with the land of John Whitman on the south with the  land of
Jefferey Staple
The land of Clement Beigges
Tenn acres in  the Easter neck first granted to him bounded
on the East with a swampe on the west with the land of James
Britton on the north with the sea on the south with the land of
Clement Weuer
Two acres upon the neck at the fferry bounded with the land
of John Allin and the sea
 - 282 - 
APPENDIX C.                           265
The land of George Allin
Three acres in Kingoke hill  first  granted to Robert Louell
bounded on the north with the land of Hugh Roe on the south
with the land of Richard Waling
The land of Matthew Pratt
Twenty acres in the mill field twelve of them first  giuen to
Edward Bate and Eyght acres to himselfe all of it bounded on
the East with the land of John Gill on the west with the land of
Richard Waling on the north with the Rocky hill on the south
with the land of Richard Addames and Thomas Baly
Also  Eighteene  ackers  of  upland  first  giuen to  Edward
Bennet now in the possession of mathew pratt bounded on the
east with the mill River on the west with John Whitmans lot
on the north with y® mill ground on the south with the pond
The land of William Toreet
Twenty acres sixteene of upland and fower of salt marsh first
giuen to Capt Sillanoua bounded on the east with the land of
m'' Henry Waltham on the west with the high waie on the north
with the land of James Ludden on the south with his owne land
bought of Richard Porter
Eyght acres of upland first giuen to Richard Porter bounded
on the  east  with land  of William Pitty on the  west with a
swampe on the  north with his  owne aboue mentioned on the
south with the land of m'' Jetferey
Three acres  first  giuen him by the towne bounded on the
east with the back river on the west with the land of m"" Jefferie
on the north with the land of William Pitty on the south with
m"* Jenerers marsh
Three acres of salt marsh lying on the backer river first giuen
to Richard Porter bounded on the East with the land of Aingell
Hollard on the west with the River on the north with the land
of m"^ Richards on the south with the land of m"' Henry Waltham
Sixteene acres lying aboue the mill first giuen to Capt Silla-
noua on the east with      on the west with the back River on
the north with      on the south with
Two shares  and halfe  upon the Easter neck containing by
 - 283 - 
266               SKETCn or WEYMOUTH.
estemat twenty five acres first giuen to m'' John Buslem bounded
on the  East with the  land of Nicholas Phillipes on the west
with the hind of  James Ludden on the noi-th  with  tlie  bay
on the south with the back River
An acor of salt marsh first giuen to m' John Buslem bounded
on the East with the back riuer on the west with his owne on
the north with the land of John King and James Smithes marsh
on the south with m'' Jefl^eries marsh
Twenty and fower acres of upland upon Round Hand fower-
teene acres of it  first  giuen to  Thomas Holbrooke ten acres
giuen to John Kinge bounded on the East with the land not
yet giuen on the west north and south with the sea
The land of Phillip Reade
fifive  acres upon Kingoke hill  two acres of it first  giuen to
himselfe three acres to John Reade on the East with the land
of John Read on the west with the high waie on the  north with
the land of m"' Webb on the south with the land of John Harding
fibwer acres of flresh marsh two acres  first  giuen to John
Read and two acres to himselfe bounded on the East with a high
waie on the west with a swampe JohnReads marsh onthe north
m' Webs and Thomas Rawlins marsh on the south
The land of John Rogeres
fibwer acres in the west ffield first giuen to himselfe bounded
on the East with the land of Thomas Doget on the west with
the high waie and on the south :    on the north with John Whit-
mans salt marsh
Nine acres in the wester neck first giuen to Aingell Hollard
bounded with a high waie on the  East the Coiiion on the west
with Richard  Siluesteres  land on the north and the land of
Edward Benet on the south
One acre  of salt  marsh near  burying Hand bought of m'
Newman bounded on the  East with Tho Whites marsh on the
west with m'' Parkeres on the  south with the land of Robert
Martin on the north with the sea
Also twenty pole or thereabout be it  more or less Lying at
the head of the mill Brook for a watering place bounded on the
 - 284 - 
APPENDIX C.                           267
south side w*'' a white oak on the marsh with his owne Land &
talving in the Eiver on the East on the west with the land of
Widdow Oatis
The land of Arthure Warren
Tenn acres of upland and swampe first  giuen to  himselfe
bounded on the East with m'' Gloueres marsh on the west and
south with m'' Barnardes land on the north by the sea
Tenn acres in the mill fiield giuen to himselfe bounded on the
East and south with Hingam line on the north with the land of
"Walter Harris the coiuon on the west
The land of Eichard Siluester
Twenty and six acres upon the Wester neck fowerteene of
them first giuen to himselfe and twelve to John Upham bounded
on the East with a high waie the coiiion on the west the land of
WmReade on the north the land of John Rogeres on the south
fibwer acres first giuen to himselfe aboue the mill bounded on
the East with Hingam line  on the west with the land of John
Eogeres on the  north with the land of m"' Torrey on the south
with the south with the land of Walter Harris
Two acres of salt marsh first giuen to himselfe bounded with
m'' Jeners land on the East John Allines on the west the Riuer
on the north the coiiion on the south
The land of John Staple
Six acres in the plaine three acres of them first giuen to m'
Barnard and three of them to Henry Kingman bounded on the
East with the land of Robert Able on the west and north with
the highwaie William Brandon the south Three acres  in the
East flSeld first  giuen to himselfe the land of William Read on
the East the land of Edmond Hart on the west the land of
Jefi'ery on the north and of m''  Parker on the south
The land of John Whitman
Twenty and on acres in the west field fiftcene of them iipland
and six acres of salt marsh first  giuen to m'' Hull bounded on
the East with a high waie on the west and north with a creeke
on the south with the land of Walter Harris
 - 285 - 
268               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
ffower  acres and halfe on the westerneck bounded on the
East with a creeke on the westwith medow on the west the land
of Thomas Streame on the north and the land of m' Jener on
the south
Eleuen acres in Harrises Eainge first  giuen to himselfe the
laud of William Hues on the Easta swampe on the westthe land
of Hugh Roe on the north and of m"" Newman on the south
Sixty acres by the great pond first giuen to m'' Hull bounded
on the East with the land of William Cai-penter on the  west
with a swampe and the pond on the south
flower acres of ffresh marsh first giuen to m"^ Hullboundedwith
a creeke on the East and Edward Benetes marsh on the south
The land of Walter Cooke
ffower acres  in the Westerneck first giuen to Thomas Baylie
bounded on the East with the land of Thomas Holbrook on the
west with the  land of John Holbrook and Zakery Reades on
the west the highway on the north the coiiions on the south
An acre upon Round Hand first giuen to Thomas Holbrooke
bounded on the East and west with the sea on the north and
south with n/ Torries land
The land of Edward  Smith
flSve acres and halfe in the  west field three  acres and halfe
fii'st  giuen to Richard Porter and two acres to Robert Louell
the streete  on the East the highwaie on the west the land of
John Harding on the north and of John Holester on the south
Ten acres  and halfe  in  the  westerneck Eight acres  and
halfe first  giuen to William Reade and two acres first  giuen to
Richard Addames bounded on the East and west with the coinon
on the north with the land of Richard Addames on the south
with the land of William Reade
Three acres of ffresh marsh first  giuen to  Steephen ffrench
bounded on the East with Richard Addames marsh the coiiions
on the west and north the fresh Brooke on the south
The land of Henry Kingman
Twelue acres in the westerneck first giuen to John Whitmarsh
bounded on East  with  the land of Nicholas Onisepherus and
 - 286 - 
APPENDIX C.                           269
Eichard Whitmarsh onthe west with the land of John Allin the
sea on the north the land of Thomas Holbrooke on the south
Three acres in the westerneck first  giuen to  William Smith
bounded on the East and south with the land of William Smith
on the north with the land of Thomas White on the south with
the comon
Three acres first giuen to Edward Poole bounded on the East
with a highwaie on the west with the land of William Hayard,
on the north with the land of Enoch Hunt on the south with the
land of Ralph Allin
tfower acres first giuen to George Allin bounded on the East
with a high waie on the west with the sea his owne land on on
the north and the land of Ralph Allin on the south
Three acres in the Easterneck of salt marsh first  giuen to m'
Buslem bounded on the north with the bay on the south with
the back Riuer
Two acres of salt marsh neere burying Hand first  giuen to
Aingell Holard bounded on the East and south with the land of
Robert Martin on the west with the creeke on the north with m'
Parkers marsh
Six acres in the westerneck first giuen to Samuel Butterworth
bounded on the  East with  the  corSon  on  the  west with a
highwaie
The land of Thomas Dyer
Seuen acres  on Kingoke hill  six  acres of it  first  giuen to
Thomas Holbrooke the other acre to Robert Louell bounded on
the East and west with two high waies on the north with the
land of Richard Addames on the south with the land of Robert
Louell and John Burrell
Two acres of swampe first giuen to John Upham bounded on
the East with a highway and on the north on the west with the
comons one the south with the land of James Naish
The land or Nathaniel Addames
Eleuen acres in the East field  fower of them first  giuen to
Mathew Pratt three of them to the wife of Thomas Clapp and
fower to William Brandon bounded on the East with the land
of Robert RandoU and Robert Cooke on the west with the land
 - 287 - 
270               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
of James Snooke on the north with a swampe on the south with
a highwaie
Eleuen acres and a quarter in the East field eyghtacres of it in
uphind and three acres and quarter of salt marsh first  giuen to
Clement Brigges bounded on the East with the land of Robert
EandoU on the west with the land of Aingell Holard on the
north on the north with the land of William Reade on the south
with the coinon
Three acres giuen him in lieu of a highwaie bounded on the
East with the back Riuer on the west with the land of Aingell
Hollard on the north with his owne land  on the South with the
land of Steephen flrench
Two acres  in  the  East fiield  first  giuen to  John Gurnie
bounded on the East with the  land of Jefiery Staple on the
west with the land of Robert Randoll on the north with the
Ceder swampe on the south with the highwaie
Eighteene acres in the East fiield  first  giuen to m' Buslem
fiufteene of it giuen first to m'' Parker bounded on the East with
a pond adioyninge to Edmond Hartes lot  on the west with the
land of m'' Jefieries on the North with the land of John Staple
on the south with a plot of coinon
The land of William Smith
Eyghteene acres in  the westerneck first  giuen to himselfe
the coiiiones on the East and west The land of John Tomson
and John Holbrook on the north the land of Richard Addames
on the south
Two acres of salt marsh bounded on the East with the Creeke
on the west with William Richards marsh Robert Martines land
on the north
Thirty acres in the greate lotes the land of Richard Addames
on the East of Steephen flrench on the west the comon on the
north and the greate pond on the south
The land of Thomas White
flbwerteene acres in the westerneck first  giuen to  himselfe
bounded on the East with a highwaie on the west with the
coinon on the north with the land of Thomas Dunn on the south
with the land of John Holbrooke and John Tomsonn
 - 288 - 
APPENDIX C.                          271
On acre of of salt  marsh wich was first  ginen to  William
Eeade bounded on the East with William Reads marsh of Rich-
ard  Addames on the west the sea on the north m''  Jeneres up-
land on the South
On acre of salt marsh by burying Handfirst giuen to m^New-
manbounded on the East to m"' Newmans land on the west with
a creeke on the north with the marsh of Ephraim Huntof John
Rogeres on the south
Twent}^ and one acres amongst the greate lots first giuen to
himselfe bounded on the East with the land of Thomas Jener
senior of Thomas Doget on the west the coi5ons on the north
the pond on the south
Also one acre be it more or less bounded with the highway
on the south & the mill Creeke on the north the land of Robte
Randall on the east & the  way to  the mill on the west as it is
marked out which sd laud was allowed him in Consideration of
land layd out for the Country highway pvided Deacon Rogers
Rogers haue liberty to come through with his  haye he setting
vp the fence agayne
The land of James Luddon
Six acres first giuen to himselfe bounded on the East with
a highwaie on the west with a plot of coifion to the Easterneck
on the north to the land of William Pitty on the south
Three acres of salt marsh first giuen to himselfe bounded on
the East with m^ Jefieries marsh the high waie to the west James
Smithes marsh on the north and of m'' Torrey on the south  A
halfe acre of salt marsh addioyning to the other that hee bought
of m'' Torrie
The land of Jeefery Staple
Three acres in the East ffield first giuen to himselfe bounded
on the East with with the  land of Thomas ffoster  of Thomas
Streame on the west of Edward Benet on the north the mill
path on the south
Six acres at the farther end of Harrises Rainge first giuen to
himselfe bounded on the East with the coinon on the west with
the land of m'' Newman on the north with the laud of William
Hughes of John Butterworth on the south
/
 - 289 - 
272               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Halfe an acre in the west field first giucn to m'' Hull the streete
on the East the land of John Whitman on the west and south
of Richard Waling on the south
The land of James  Prist
Onacre in King Oke hill first giuen to Edward Benet bounded
on the East with the streete that ledeth to the mill James Snookes
land on the north Edward Benet on the west the land of Thomas
Rider on the south
Two acres in the East fSeld first  giuen to William Hughes
bounded with the land of Thomas Rider on the East the high-
way to the west the land of William Hughes to the north and
south
The land of Martin Phillipes
Three acres and halfe first giuen to Thomas White bounded
on the East with the land of Nicholas Phillipes  on the west
with the land of Richard Bowin the waie on the north and of
Richard Bowin on the South
On acre  of  salt  marsh first  giuen  to  William Richards
bounded with the marsh of Nicholas Phillipes on the west with
m""  Newmans marsh with the land of Nicholas Phillipes on the
north and a creeke on the south
The land of John ffoster
Two acres and halfe first giuen to John Taylor bounded on
the East with the land of William Weedon on the west with
the land of Nicholas Byram on the north with the sea south
with the land of m"^ Glouer
Two acres upon the plaine first  giuen to William Richardes
bounded on the East with the land of Nicholas Whit on the
north with the land of Nicholas Phillipes with a swampe on the
south
The land of Andrew ffoed
Seuen acres in the East fild  first giuen to Masachill Barnard
on the East with Edmond Hartes land on the west and north
with the land of    Jener on the south with the Indianes land
 - 290 - 
APPENDIX 0.                           273
The land of Masaoiiel Baenard
Six acres in the plaine first  giuen to Richard Longe bounded
on the East with the land of Arthure Warren of John ffusell
on the west the sea on the north and his owne land on the south
Three acres in the plaine first giuen to ThomasBaylie bounded
on the East with the land of Clement Weauer on the west and
south with the land of John fiusell of Arthure Warren on the
north
Eight acres in  the mill field first giuen to himselfe bounded
East and south with Hingham land on the west with the Coinon
on the north with the land of Walter Harris
The land of James Snooke
On acre in Kingoke hill first giuen to Edward Benet bounded
on the East with the land of m' Parker of James Prist  on the
west of Edward benet on the north
Three acres in  the East fBeld first  giuen to  Edward Sale
bounded on the  East with the  land of Nathaniel Addames of
Edmond Hart on the west a swampe on the north to the streete
on the south
Three acres in the mill field  the land of Nicholas Norton on
the  East of Thomas Clape on the west a swampe on the south
the mill foote path on the north
On acre of salt marsh at the back riuer first giuen to Robert
Able almost Round with the sea the sedar swampe on the west
of it
The land of Richard Bowin
Tenn acres Eyght of themupland two of swampe lying in the
plaine first giuen to ThomasWhite bounded on the East with the
land of Martin Phillipes of Ralph [Allin] on the west of his
owne on the south a highwaie on the north
Two acres of upland and salt marsh first giuen to Tho White
bounded on the East with the  coiSon on the west with the
land of Ralph Allin on the north with his  owne land on the
south with John Uphams marsh
Two acors  first  giuen to John King bounded on the East
west cS; north with his owne land andof m'' Newman on the south
18
 - 291 - 
274               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
The land of William Eichardes
Nineteen acres and halfe in the westernecke first giuen to m'
Buslem bounded on the East with the sea the land of Kichard
Addames on the west of Robert Martin on the north of Thomas
Streame on the south
Two acres of salt marsh in the same neck first  giuen to Wil-
liam Smith bounded on the East with William Smithes marsh
with the sea on the west and north and with the land of Robert
Martin on the south
fFower acres in the same neck first giuen to himselfe bounded
on the east  & north with the  land of Henry Kingman a high
waie on the south
The land of Robert Tytus
Six acres in the plaine 3 of them first giuen to George Allin 3
to Arthure Warrenbounded on the East with a highwaie on the
west and north with high waies on the south with the land of
John Ozborne
ffower acres on the other side first  giuen to  James Ludden
the greate swampe being on the west and south of it
On acre of Ifresh marsh at his dore beinge at the north end
of the greate swampe
The land of Edward Benet
ffive  acres in Kingokehill first giuen to himselfe bounded on
the East with the land of James Snooke with a high waie on
the west the Pounde on the north the land of Thomas Rawlinges
on the south
Twenty and two acres in the westerneck 14'°"  of them giuen
him by the towne and eight of them first giuen to Aingell Hol-
lard bounded on the East and west with highwaies on the north
with the land of John Rogeres of m' Glouer on the south
Five acres in the East field 2 acres first giuen him by Towne
and 3 acres first giuen to Thomas White bounded on the East
and north with the land of Nathaniel Addan^es on the west with
the land of William Reade of Thomas Rawlinges on the south
Six acres at hockley fii'st giuen to himselfe bounded on the
 - 292 - 
APPENDIX C.                          275
East with the Eiuer his meddow on the west the comon on the
south
On acre of salt marsh at tlae back riuer first giuen to himselfe
the riuer on the east and south the land of Steephen Ifrench on
the north of Joseph Torrie on the west
On acre and a quarter of salt marsh at hocklie bounded with
his owne land on the East Aingell Holard on the west the riuer
on the north the land of Steephen Ifrench on the south
On acre  of ffresh  marsh bounded with  John  Whitmanes
marsh on the  East  of Thomas Holbrooke  on the west the
comones on the north the river on the south
The land of Enoch Hunt
Twenty and two acres in the plaine twenty acres of it upland
and two acres of salt marsh first g'iuen to Richard Siluester and
John Upham bounded on the East with the land of m'' Glouer
on the west and north with the sea the highway and the land
of m^ Jener on the south
On acre of salt marsh neare burying Hand bounded on the
East and south with the  land of m'' Newman the sea on the
west the land of John Upham on the north
The land of Thomas Doget during the life of his wife
AND afterwards TO ELIZABETH AND MaRY FFRIE  THE
DAUGHTERES OF WiLLIAM FFRIE DECEASED
ffower acres in  the  west ffield  first  giuen to  William ffrie
bounded on the East with the land of Edward Smith and John
Hardinge the land of John Eogeres on the south of John Whit-
man on the north a highwaie on the south
Twelue acres amongst the greate lotes bounded on the East
with the greate pond on the west with the coiuon the north with
the land of Thomas White of Robert Louell on the south
The land of Elizabeth and Mart ffrie
Six acres in mill field first given to William ff'rie bounded on
the East with a little  pond Steephen tfrench on the north the
mill Riuer on the west
Two acres of salt marsh in 2 seuerale pceles in the westerneck
 - 293 - 
276               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
on p"^^ bounded with the marsh of John Allin on the East the
sea  on the west    Jeneres marsh on the north the land  of
Henry Kingman on the south the other pcell bounded the East
and south with the land of John Allin the sea on the west
The land or Robert Louell
On acre and a quarter in the west ffield first giuen to him the
land of Thomas Doget on the west the  streete  on the  East
waiter Harrises land on the north John Hardinges on the south
Six acres and halfe in Kingoakhill first giuen to himselfe the
highwaies on the East and west ThomasDyers land on the north
Hughes Roes on the south
fiifteene' acres neare the mill boundedon the East with Hingam
boundes on the west with mill  Riuer m' Jelferies land on the
north Steephen tFrenches on the south
Thirtie acres in the greate lottes the pond on the East the
coinon on the west Thomas Dogetes land on the north Edmond
Hartes on the south
The land of James Naish
Six acres in mill field giuen him by the towne bounded on
the east and west with 2 swampes on the north with the mill
weiofh  on the south the land of John Harding  Six acres in
the same place 3 acres of it first giuen to Thomas Clap 3 acres
of it to John Hickes bounded East and West with swampes on
the north with the mill weigh the land of Jacob flfrench  on
the south
The land of Steephen FFrench
Tenn acres in East field giuen to himselfe bounded on the
East with the land of William Hughes Timothie Wales land
on the west a swampe on the  north a highwaie on the south
tfowerteene  acres in  the  greate lotes  first  giuen to  John
Upham bounded on the east with hingam line  on the west to
the mill the land of Robert Louell on the north of ThomasDoget
south
Three acres of marsh first giuen to John Upham halfe an acre
of it at the back River the Rest at the fresh mai*sh bounded
East and west with the coiaions on the north Avith Thomas Hol-
brookes marsh on the south with henry Addames Marsh
 - 294 - 
APPENDIX O.                          277
The land of John Glouer
Eight acres in the plaine
The land of Thomas Rawlinges
Three acres in the East ffield first  giuen to William Eeade
bounded on the East with the land of Timothie Wales on the
west and north with the land of William Reade on the south
with the streete
Two acres in  King oke hill  first  giuen to  Aingle  Holard
bounded on the'East with the land of Tho Rider on the west
with the streete on the north the land of John Upham Edward
Benets south
Three acres in East field first  giuen to him bounded on the
East with land of Aingle Holard on the west with Will Reade
Edward Benetes on the north Aingle Holarda on the south
On acre of salt marsh in the westerneck bounded on the East
with Ralph Allines land on the west with m'' Jeneres the coEaon
on the north the sea on the south
On acre and halfe of Afresh marsh first  giuen to  him lying
amongst the greate lottes
The land of John Upham
ffower acres in King Okehill first  giuen to himselfe bounded
on the East with Edmond Hartes land on the west with a high-
waie m'' Webbes land on the north Thomas Rawlinges on the
south
Two acres in Harrises Rainge Thomas Cleftones land on the
East a highwaie on the west the land of waiter harris  on the
north of John Burge on the south
Two acres of salt marsh with a little Island adioyning to it
called buryinge Hand m'' Newmans land on the East the sea on
west Enock Huntes on the south
Thirty acres  in the greate lottes the pond on the East the
comones on the west Steephen ffrench on the north
The land of Thomas Richardes
ffive  acres of firesh meddow lying at the begininge of the
Hingam boundes first giuen to m'' Busley bounded on the north
with the Riuer and with Aingell Hollards lot on the south
 - 295 - 
278               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Eighteene acres bounded on the East witli Ilingam boundcs
m'' Jeff'eries on the West Aingcll IloUards on the south
ffower acres in  the mill  ffield  first  giuen  to  John Gurnie
bounded on the East with Nicholas Norton land on the west
with Richard Wulinges on the north with John Gilles on the
south with William Brandones
The land of William Carpenter
Two acres in  the  west ffield  first  giuen to Thomas Baylie
the streete on the East the  land of Thomas Baylie on the west
and south by John Hollester on the north
ffower acres in the mill ffield  first  giuen to Thomas Baylie
bounded on the  East with with the land of m"'  Lenthall  the
High waie on the west Thomas Bailies land on the north John
Reades on the south
Eighteene acres neare the firesh pond, first giuen to Edward
Benet bounded on the East with the mill Riuer on the west
with the  land of m""  Hull the mill and on the north with the
pond on the south
Three acres in Harrises Rainge first giuen to m*^ Hull bounded
on the East with a high waie on the west with a swampe on the
north with the land of Henry Kingman on the south with Sam-
uele Butterworths land
fibwer acres in Harrises Rainge first giuen to Henry Kingman
bounded on the  East  with a highwaie on the  west with a
swampe on the north with the land of Robert Martin on the
south with the land of Joseph Hull
fi'ower acres in Harrises Rainge fii'st giuen to Robert Martin
bounded on the East with a high  waie on the  west with a
swampe the  land of Samuele Butterworth  on  the north  of
Henry Kingman on the south
Two acres  of fFresh marsh first  giuen to  William Hughes
halfe  an acre  of  it  lyeth  on seueral  spotes  lying  between
the  hucklebury  pond and the fresh  marsh one  acre on the
west side of the Riuer that cometh into the south side of the
greate pond and halfe an acre  more on the  same Riuer m'
Jener hauing marsh in the north end of it
 - 296 - 
APPENDIX C.                          279
The land of Robert Martin
Ten acres in  the East ffield  first  giuen to Zakry Bicknell
the land of Richard Webb on the East m'' Newman on the north
ffive acres of salt marsh on the south end of the same first
giuen to  Zakry Bicknell
Two acres of upland giuen to saied Robert Martin adioyning
to it
Twelve acres and halfe in the wester neck first  giuen to m'
Joseph Hull boundedon the north with the sea the land of Wil-
liam Richards on the south the salt marshes onthe east and west
fifteene  acres  aboue the  mill  first  giuen  to  Richard  Longe
bounded on the East with the pond on the west the mill Riuer
on the west and Mr Torries land on the south
Twenty and fower acres amongst the greate lottes the land of
Edward Sale on the north and of William Hughes on the south
Thirtie acres in the greate lots  having the land of Arthure
Warren on the north and of James Luddon on the south
The following sales are recorded in the same con-
nection:  —
Sould by Edward Smith unto Thomas Dyer as followeth
ffive  acres and halfe of land in the west ffield  three acres and
halfe  of it was giuen first to Richard porter and two acres of
it first giuen to Robert Louell and his  Dwelling house :    barne
and sellar with the appurtenances there unto belonginge bounded
on the East & west with highwaies on the north with the land
of John Harding :   on the south by John Holbrook land
Allsoe three acres of ffresh marsh which was first  giuen to
Steephen ffrench  bounded on the East by Richard Addames
marsh on the west and north with the comon on the south with
the fresh brooke
Sould by Thomas Dyer unto Thomas Baylie the 21*' of the
3 month 1644 his dwellinge house barne and sellar his  garden
and yarde both of them contayning by Estimation on quarter
of an acre of land being more or lesse bounded on the East with
the land of Robert Louell on the west with  the land of m'
Webb on the north with the land of saied Thomas Dyer and
on the south a highwaie
 - 297 - 
280               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Sould l)y Edwaiid Smith unto Wh.ltam Keade the 25*"  of
the 3 month 1G44  Tenn aeres and halfe of land in tlie  wester
neck Eight acres and halfe of it was lirst giuen to him the suied
William  Keade  two acres  fiirst   giuen to  llichard Addames
bounded on the East with the land of the saied "William Keade
on the west with the land of Eichard Addames north and south
with the coilions
Of the  one hundred and thirty-eight land-owners
represented in the above list, seventeen only belonged
to the Hull company of 1635, and only twenty-two are
represented to-day by name among their descendants
in the town.  Seventeen of them were in the company
ofRev. Samuel ]^ewman, who emigrated to Rehoboth
in 1644.
LIST OF 1636.
The earliest  list  of land-owners, or men to whom
grants were made in Weymouth (although evidently
not the original proprietors) ,   now known, is  from the
town records, under date of 1636, probably copied from
the original record, not now in existence.
1636  At a meeting in the Towne of Weymouth the 12''' of
voted.   That for the greate lotts, wee should lott unto
every compleat person  [house holder] six—and unto every
halfe passenger, under twelve years of age to have three to the
head.  By all the freemen here present whose names are under-
written.   And the place to  begin is  at  the lower end of the
ffresh Pond, [Whitman's,] and to run eighty four Eodd either
wards to the great plantation lotts.
No.                            Acres.
1   Edward Bennet                 18
2  Mr Joseph Hull                 54
3   Henry Kingman              42
4  Mr Jener, senior                   18
5   Thomas White                21
6  WiUiam Fry                  12
7   Robert Lovell                    34
8  Edward [Edmond] Hart  ... 18
No.                            Acres.
9   Thomas Bawling              12
10  Mr Jener, Jun                45
11   William Reed  ...... 18
12  Rich''  Silvester                   24
13  Rich""  Addomes              24
14  William Smith                30
15  Stephen French               21
16  John Upham              30
 - 298 - 
APPENDIX O.                          281
These are all  represented upon the list  of property
owners of 1643, while but five  of them are now rep-
resented by name among the inhabitants of the town.
Of the above only six belonged to the Hull company of
the previous year.
LIST OF 1651.
The next list  of property owners is found upon the
town records, under date of ]S^ov. 26, 1651, of which the
following is a copy:  —
The great lots  named in the old town Book and formerly
granted to be laid out on the East side of Fresh Pond next to
Mrs Richard's mill joining the small lots formerly laid out but-
ting on Fresh Pond to run 18 rods towards Hingham line  and
in case any lots run beyond the Pond they shall be upon the
same Line.
NAMES OF THOSE TO HAVE LOTS 2 FEBRUARY 1651-2.
William [1 James] Nash  .      .     .    .        5
The Mill Great lot   .     .       .     .        .          22/3
3 February 1651  The following were found by the towns-
men to be entitled to great lots  ordered to be laid out on the
East side of Great Pond next to  Mrs Richards mill  to  begin
next to the small lots which are or shall be laid out fii'st,  which
great lots are to but on Hingham line  on the East and on the
great lots on the west, with a sufficient  drift-way between the
two divisions each to pay his own measuring.
 - 299 - 
282               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
TIT•11 *              "r>     „ ,1 1
_
Q
Goodman Androsse  .
LIST OF 16G3.
The next general list  is  that of 1663, and embraces
the territory upon the west side of the town, bounding
upon the Braintree line:  —
Meeting of the Selectmen  [of Weymouth] 14 Dec. 1663.
The number of Acres in each persons lotts in the first Division
begininge on Brauntry lyne, as folioweth.
No. of
Aorea.
No. of
Lota.
I7o. of
Aorea.
I7o. of
Lots.
Mr. Benjamin Gilham  .     .    .      8     1                                                           24
2                                            25
.       .       13     3                                            26
Nicholas Whitmarsh .      .     .    .       5     4                                         27
5                                            28
.      .            7     6                                               29
7                                                  30
8                                            31
9    Thomas Holbrook   .      .      .     .     10   32
10                                         33
11                                               34
12    John King, seaman  .     .     ... 7    35
13                                          36
14                                          37
15                                          38
16                               .        ,                     6    39
17                                            40
18                                       5    41
19    Samuel Butterworth .      .     .     .        6    42
.     .    17i  20                                        43
21                                .                       ,                              6    44
.       .     17i  22                                       45
23                                        46
 - 300 - 
APPENDIX C.                           283
No. of  No. of
Aoroi.   Lota.
Widdow Snooke               4   47
Sarah Hunt                 6    48
Edmund Plart                      7    49
John Bicknell                   10    50
Marcuth Pratt                  10    51
William Holbrook              9    52
Sam. Parker                  4   53
James Lovill   ...... 8    54
Ephraim Hunt              10   55
George Fry                  7    56
Thomas Donn               6    57
John Holbrook               28   58
Eichard Bolter                  6    59
Phillip Eead                 6    60
James Priest                      5    61
Mathew Pratt                   4    62
End of 'the first Division.
No. of  No. of
Aores.   Lota.
John Harding                10   63
John King, planter  ....  8    64
William Ricliards                 5    65
Robert Randall                7    66
John Burg                   7    67
Ensign Whitman            15    68
Widdow Woren             5    69
Thomas Drake                6    70
Giles Leach                  4   71
Thomas Bayley               11    72
John Pratt                      5    73
Nicholas Byram            10   74
James Smith, Senr             15    75
Jonas Humphrey .....  7    76
John Reynolds                 5    77
The lotts in the 2d Division
Mr. Thacher                 52^^    1
Widdow Oatis                  15     2
John Taylor                  18     3
Widdow Read               30    4
Samuel Butterworth .... 18     5
William Fry's children ... 18     6
John Vining                  15     7
Robert Randall                21     8
Elder Bate                   51     9
John Pratt                     15    10
Edward Kingman           15    11
John Bicknell                   30   12
Ensigne Whitman  .... 45   13
John Reynolds                15    14
Phillip Reed                18    15
John Guppie                 21    16
John Shaw                12    17
Ephraim Hunt              30   18
Edmund Hart                21    19
Thomas Pratt                  21    20
Richard Newbury            15    21
John Whitmarsh             27   22
ThomasWhitman           15    23
Deacon Phillips                  39   24
Widdow Briggs                18    25
John King, planter  .... 24   26
Nicholas Whitmarsh .... 15    27
Walter Cooke                15    28
sginning on Brauntry lyue.
29
James Lovill & his mother   .      24   30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
John King, seaman  .      .      .     .     21    45
46
47
48
49
50
51
.       30   52
William Chard                    53
.         21    54
55
56
 - 301 - 
284              BKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
William Richards              15   57
Thomas Dyer                33   58
Eichard Porter                30   59
William Holbrook             27    60
John Blake                   24   61
Thomas Bayley               33   62
Sarah Hunt                18    63
Mr. Gilham                 24   64
Andrew Ford                18    65
George Fry                  21    66
Widdow Staple                 12    67
Giles Leach                  12    68
James Smith, sen               45   69
William Torrey                   70
John Berge                   21    71
Samuel Parker                12   72
Thomas White              42   73
John Osborne                 12   74
Thomas Holbrook             30   75
James Nash                 45   76
James Priest                    15    77
Richard Phillips                 16   78
John Whitman             16    79
End of the 2* Division.
 - 302 - 
APPENDIX D.                        285
APPENDIX D.
[Page 56.]
PEKSONAL SKETCHES.
Major James Humphrey was one of the pillars of the town,
a man of intelligence, influence and wealth, for more than sixty
years, from 1735 to 1797, holding the most important offices in
the gift of his fellow-citizens, from his first service as constable
in 1735, until, in 1781, he received a public vote of thanks from
the town " for more than forty years of faithful service as select-
man."  He was also many times chosen representative to  the
General Court, and for several terms he represented his district
in the Council (State senator).   He was also a prominent and
active member of the church and parish.
He was the son of James and Margaret (^Torrey-Humphrey
,
born in  Weymouth, June 22, 1711, and a descendant, in the
fourth generation, from Jonas Humphrey, of Dorchester, who
settled in that town in  1637, whose son, Deacon Jonas Hum-
phrey, removed to  Weymouth soon after  1650, and at  once
became a leading citizen.
Major Humphrey was twice married ;    first, on Dec. 5, 1734,
to his neighbor, Ann, daughter of John and Mary {Symes-
Torrey, a native of "Old Spain," born May 28,  1715, a de-
scendant of Capt.  William Torrey, the  well-known " Clerk
of the Deputies."  She died Dec. 17, 1751, having borne him
six children.
I.   Ann, born Nov. 19, 1735; died June 24, 1744.
II.   James, born April 12, 1737; died Aug. 20, 1811.
III.   Margaret, born Feb. 8,  1739;  who married Ahner Pratt, of
Weymouth.
IV.  Ltjcy, born April 18, 1742; who married  Col.  Asa White, of
Weymouth.
V.  Ann, born July 6, 1746; who married David Blanchard, of Wey-
mouth.
VI.  JosiAH, born June 19, 1748; for many years town treasurer.  He
died May 7, 1835.
 - 303 - 
286               SKETCn OF WEYMOUTH.
Major ITumphrey married, second, March 22, 1753, Silence,
daughter of Ezra and Silence  {Randall- Whitmarsh, Ijorn  in
Weymouth, Nov. 22, 1732, and died Nov. 26, 1822, at the ago
of ninety years.   Her father was a  graduate of Harvard Col-
lege, and for many years one of the important men of the town.
The issue of tliis marriage was :  —
yil.  Deborah,born Dec. 17, 1753; married Capt. Lemuel Gardner,
of Boston.
VIII.  Abigail, born Feb. 22, 1756; died Feb. 22, 1824.
IX.  Sarah, born Dec. 14, 1760; died Aug. 10, 1846.
X.  Elizabeth, born June 13,  1763;  married Charles Leach, of
Boston.
XI.  Susanna, born June 27,  1765;  married Samuel Fenno, of
Milton.
XII.  Capt. ISTathaniel, born June 27,  1765;  died Jan. 12, 1825;
unmarried.
Major Humphrey died May 2, 1798, in the  eighty-seventh
year of his age.
Dr. Cotton Tufts. —For sketch, see "Physicians of Wey-
mouth,'" in Chapter XL, page 190.
Gen. Solomon Lovell was born in Abington, Mass., June
1,  1732, the son of David and Mary {Torrey-Lovell.   The
father was a graduate of Harvard College, of 1725, and spent
a few years in teaching ;    died young.  Gen. Lovell was a de-
scendant of Robert Lovell, who was a member of the com-
pany that came to Weymouth in 1635, with Rev. Joseph Hull.
From his youth he was almost continually in the service of the
town, in an official  capacity, in important positions.   He also
served in the campaign at Lake George, in 1756, as first lieuten-
ant  in  the  company of Capt.  Samuel Thaxter,  under Col.
Richard Gridley.
During the Revolutionary war he engaged actively in the
cause of the Colonies, and was promoted from grade to grade
until he reached that of brigadier-general, in which capacity he
held the  position  of  commander of  the military division  of
which Boston was the centre.   He also  saw hard and honor-
able  service  in  the  Rhode Island campaign, in  1778,  under
Gen. Sullivan.   He was also  commander of the land forces
 - 304 - 
APPENDIX D.                       287
in the unfortunate Penobscot expedition of the following year,
which failed  from want of co-operation  of the  fleet,  under
command of Com. Saltonstall, who was cashiered, while Gen.
Lovell was commended.
Gen. Lovell was deeply interested in town affairs, in which
he took an active part, and his efforts  and services were fully
appreciated by his townsmen.
Gen. Lovell was twice  married;  first,  Jan.  19,  1758, to
Lydia,  daughter of John and  Sarah (Hunt-Holbrook,  born
in  Weymouth, Sept. 3,  1734, and who died May 21,  1761,
having had two children :  —
I.   Sarah, born April 28, 1759; died July 8, 1759.
II.   Lydia, bora May 17, 1761; married Nathaniel Beal, of Quincy.
Gen. Lovell married, second, May, 1762, Hannah, daughter
of James and Hannah {Reed-Pittey, born Dec. 8, 1730 ;   died
July 8, 1795, by whom he had the following children :  —
III.   James, born Jan. 27, 1763; died March 31, 1763.
ly.  Sarah, born April 5, 1764; died Feb. 11, 1782.
V.  Hannah, born Oct. 18, 1765; died Dec. 19, 1765.
VI.  Hannah, born Dec. 7, 1766; died Jan. 14, 1767.
VII.  Dr. James, born Jan.  1,  1768; died April 3,  1820; without
issue ;    married Nov. 8, 1798, Mrs. Priscilla Winch.
VIII.  Hannah, born July 6, 1771; married Capt.  Luther Little, of
Marshfield, Mass.
IX.  Mary, born April 28, 1773; married Capt. Williavi Wildes, of
Kennebunk, Me.
Gen. Lovell died Sept. 9, 1801.
Deacon Nathaniel Bayley, the most important man of his
day, in the South Parish, in Weymouth, was the son of jRev.
James and Sarah Bayley, born in that parish, Dec. 27, 1731,
the eighth of a family of thirteen children.   His father was the
first minister of that church and parish, holding that position
for more than forty years.   He was early in public life, and
throughout  its  extended term  (he  died  at  eighty-two)  no
man in the town was more highly esteemed and trusted.   He
was an ardent patriot during  the  Revolutionary war,  doing
what he could to further the interests of the Colonies.   His
counsel was listened to and followed, not only in his native town,
but as well in the conventions of the  State, and among the
 - 305 - 
288               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
representatives in tjie General Court.  He was a soldier in the
French war, and afterwards held the rank of captain in the
militia.   He was also an active rneml)cr of the church, where
he held the  ofBce of deacon.   He was engaged in  all  of the
important work of the town during the struggle for independ-
ence, and to  no one was the town more indebted for its success
in that eventful period than to him.  He died Dec. 17, 1812.
He was twice married; first, Oct. 3, 1754, to Tamar White,
by whom he had the following children :  —
I.   Lydia, born Aug. 1, 1755; marripcl John Thomas.
II.   Tamak, born Dec. 13, 1756; married Josiah Thayer.
III.   Samuel, born June 14, 1758; died March 16, 1839; major in
the militia.
lY.  SARAH, born July 12, 1763; died July 24, 1787.
V.  Mary, born Jan. 20, 1765; married Nathaniel Bichards.
VI.  Charlotte, born Sept. 23, 1767; married James Bichards, 2d.
YII.  Nathaniel, born Oct. 4, 1769.
VIII.  Elizabeth, born July 19, 1772.
Mrs. Tamar- died June 20, 1787, aged fifty-eight.
Deacon Nathaniel married,  second, Nov. 1,  1789,  Widow
Deborah Pratt,  who died  Aug. 31,  1830,  aged  sixty-eight
years.
James Humphrey, Esq., was the son of Samuel and Sarah
{Badlam-Humphrey,    born in  Weymouth, Dec. 5,  1754.  He
was fitted for college at the age of eighteen years, but was pre-
vented from pursuing his  studies  on account of the  sickness
and death  of his  mother.  He then  began  work upon his
father's  farm,  continuing his studies  in  private,  as  best  he
could, and soon began to teach.   About 1777, he commenced
teaching in the public schools of his native town, with such suc-
cess that he was retained in that position for more than a quar-
ter of a century.   He also had large classes  of private  pupils
from his own and other towns, and was a competent instructor
in Latin and Greek as well as in English.   For thirty years he
held the highest ofiices in the gift of the town, and was one of
its most useful citizens.   He died March 12, 1819.
He married Nov. 6, 1777, Deborah, daughter of Abel and
Deborah {Loud-Tirrell,  born  in Weymouth, July 15,  1753,
and died Dec. 30, 1842.  They had :  —
 - 306 - 
APPENDIX D.                       289
I.   Asa, born Sept. 25, 1778; died Jan. 24, 1861.
II.   Col. Ebenezek, born Aug. 27, 1781; died June 17, 1861.
III.  Lemuel, Esq., born May 11, 1784; died Sept. 10, 1857.
IV.  Deborah, born  March 25,  1787; married Ahiel  Wilder, of
Hingham, and died July 26, 1875.
V.  Lucy, born Dec. 31, 1789; married Elislia Gushing, of Hing-
ham, and died March 21, 1876.
VL Levi, born Nov. 13, 1792; died Sept. 20, 1818.
VII.  Susan, born Jan. 15, 179G; died, unmarried, Nov. 5, 1825.
VIII.  Lydia, born Aug. 16, 1798; married Capt. Hervey Gushing, of
Weymouth, and died Aug. 25, 1847.
Gen. James Lawrence Bates. —No historical  record of
Weymouth, however brief, could be called complete that did
not contain a sketch of Gen. Bates, the most prominent mili-
tary figure in its  history,  and one that deserves and holds a
warm place in  the hearts and memories of its  citizens.   The
following  imperfect  account has  been gathered from various
sources, among which are the townrecords, private letters from
intimate  acquaintances,  archives of Reynolds  Post, No. 58,
G. A. R., imd the history of the Twelfth Regiment of Massa-
chusetts Volunteers.   It is hoped that this attempt may supjoly
a pressing need until some competent hand shall furnish a sat-
isfactory biography :  —
James Lawrence Bates, son of Capt.  Elijah and Sarah
{Torrey-Bates, was born in  the village of South "Weymouth,
Mass., Aug. 6, 1820.   Byfather and mother he inherited some
of the best blood of the town, his paternal ancestor being the
well-known Elder Edward Bates, or Bate, as the namewas then
written, who was one of Weymouth's earliest  settlers.   The
date of his arrival is not known, but as early as  1637 he was a
prominent citizen  and a member of standing in  the  church.
He settled in North Weymouth (Old Spain),  but soon removed
to the east part of the town, where he came into possession of
the Waltham-Richards mill, which remained in  the  family for
near two hundred years.   The family has always been a numer-
ous and influential one in the town.
In the maternal line his grandfather was Dr. James Torrey,
for many years a physician of eminence in South Weymouth,
who traces his descent from Capt. William Torrey, who settled
in Weymouth in 1640, and at once took a commanding position
19
 - 307 - 
290               SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
among its citizens, whicli he ever afterwards retained.   lie was
for several years a deputy from his town to the General Com't,
where, on account of his  learning and ability,  he was made
clerk  of his  branch  of that  body.  His  son,  Rev.  Samuel
Torrey, for almost half a century minister of the  church in
Weymouth, was one of the most distinguished ministers of his
day in  America.  This  family has  also  been  numerous and
prominent.
Capt. Elijah Bates, the father of Gen. James L., was a man
of property and standing, who for many years commanded a
sailing packet running between WeymouthLanding and Boston,
in  the  days when most of the transportation between the two
towns was done by water conveyance.
Of the youth of James L., the following from the pen of one
who knew him intimately through his whole life gives a faithful
record of his  early life  and character: "I can simply say that
in  his  youth he gave promise of those leading characteristics
that gave prominence to  his  after life.    He was truthful and
pure in  his  conversation, and, unlike so many of his youthful
associates, he would not use low, vulgar, slangy, and profone
words.  I don't remember that I ever heard him utter a profane
oath,  while many of his  companions were much addicted to
that vice.
"He was firm, faithful, and reliable as  a friend, and as firm
and unyielding as an opponent ;    as fearless  and outspoken in
condemning what he thought to be wrong in those days as in
after life.
" As a school-boy he was rather indifferent, and  perhaps a
laggard, until  he was fourteen or fifteen years old,  when he
suddenly woke up to the necessity of getting an education, and
with his determined will, combined with a natural aptitude to
acquire and retain knowledge, he soon outsti'ipped his compan-
ions ;    and,  considering  his  somewhat limited advantages, he
afterwards laid the foundation for a good and solid  education,
far superior to many whose advantages were much greater.   He
had a very retentive memory, and what he once learned was
learned for life."
His education was gained mostly in the public schools of his
native town, with a few terms at Monson and Phillips Academy
 - 308 - 
APPENDIX D.                        291
(English school), Andover, and his first employment was as a
teacher in  Weymouth.  This he continued for several years,
teaching in the difterent schools in the South Parish with great
success, acquiring a high local reputation as an educator.   He
was very popular,  and  might have attained a  distinguished
position in  that profession but for  his  proclivity for change,
which induced him to turn his attention to other employment.
As a business man he did not succeed, probably for the reason
that his heart was not in  it,  and his  services in that direction
were more a matter of necessity than choice ;   and yet the larger
part of his life was spent in manufacturing and mercantile pur-
suits, in which he was many times engaged, and in which was
exhibited his love of chans-e.
His first  adventure of a  business nature was with Messrs.
Fogg and Torrey, in the manufacture of boots, about 1846, but
in which he continued only about one year.   He then went into
company with Benjamin F. White, in the same business, where
he remained for about two years, when he gave up business for
himself, and entered the employ of Nathaniel Shaw & Co. as a
cutter, to which he gave his attention for another year.
About this time the California fever broke out, and he became
one of the prime movers in a joint-stock company, which pur-
chased the ship "Edward Everett," fitted her out, and sailed for
the Golden Gate, in 1849. Onthe arrival ofthe ship in SanFran-
cisco, the company started for the mines, leaving him in charge.
After a time the company disbanded, and the vessel was sold, he
with a few others being the purchasers.   They sailed for home,
taking on their way a cargo of guano, from the Peruvian Islands.
On their arrival home, the vessel and cargo were sold, and he
became thereby the possessor of a few thousand dollars, as his
share of the profits and investment.
Upon his return from California he again entered the employ
of N. Shaw & Co., occupying his former position, where, how-
ever, he remained but a short time.   Hearing that Josiah Reed
was about to commence manufacturing boots, he entered into
copartnership  with  him, under the  style of Bates  & Reed.
This connection commenced Sept. 1, 1851, and continued about
two and a half years, when he became possessed with a desire
for stock raising in the then West, and, in company with M. D.
 - 309 - 
292               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Spaiikling,  bought a tract  of land in  Genesee  County, 111.,
whither they went, and began the purchase of stock, but sold
out before fairly commencing operations.
After about six months he went into the general store busi-
ness in South Weymouth, wliich retained him about one year,
when he left town and went into business in Boston, with a Mr.
SafFord, where he contented himself for a few months, when he
formed a new connection in the leather business, with two part-
ners, under the firm name of Durrell, Bacon & Co.  In this he
continued, with some unimportant changes, until the breakingout
of the Rebelhonin 1861, when the whole current of his life was
changed, and he found an employment which enlisted his  sym-
pathies, and in whichhis naturally great abilities found congenial
development.  Hitherto he had labored under restraint, and was
indifferent as to the result ;   now he was in love with his occupa-
tion, and, in his desire to excel, his mental and physical powers
found their natural bent.
In April, 1861, the incipient Rebellion came to  a head, and
the attack upon Fort Sumter precipitated the struggle into open
war.  Immediately upon the first call  for volunteers by Presi-
dent Lincoln, a public meeting was called in Weymouth;   men
were at once enlisted and a  company formed, which became
afterwards Company H, of the Twelfth Regiment of Massachu-
setts Volunteers.   Mr. Bates was one of the active  spirits  in
this movement, and by his energyand activity did much to pro-
mote its success.   He was chosen its captain, and received his
commission on the twenty-ninth day of April.
The company soon went into camp, and began to  perfect its
organization and drill.   Capt. Bates, as were his associates, was
perfectly ignorant of all practical and theoretical knowledge of
military affairs.   Everything must be learned.   With his habit-
ual  determination and an ardor kindled by a cause he loved,
and a congenial employment, he at once set himself to master-
ing the details of his profession, and day and night, with tireless
energy, he applied himself to  his  task.   His enthusiasm and
example excited the ambition of his men, and the reputation of
the regiment for  drill  and discipline, afterwards so high, was
due in no small degree to this fact.
The weary weeks and months of camp duty, with the endless
 - 310 - 
I
APPENDIX D.                        293
disappointments and delays  in  entering  into  active  service,
although so irksome at the time, were not whollyevils, for they
gave the regiment time and opportunity to perfect itself in that
which was most essential to  its  future success ;    and well did
Capt. Bates avail himself of these opportunities, for they formed
the basis of his military I'eputation.
Delay followed delay,  and it  was not until  June  12  that
the regiment was accepted by the United States, although its
reputation  stood second to  none for drill  and discipline, and
it was not until July 13 that it left Boston for the seat of war
;
and once upon the ground a whole year was spent before its
first blood was drawn, and the regiment established its  reputa-
tion for skill and courage in the field, which made it  a favorite
with all its commanders.
Capt. Bates early distinguished himself for his  coolness in
action, and the skill with which he performed his  duties ;   and
he soon attracted the attention of his superiors.   His promotion
was but a question of time, and he was commissioned as major
of the  Thirty-third Regiment of Massachusetts Volunteers, on
the 5th of August, 18(52.   His regiment was sorry to lose him,
but the service  as well as himself gained by it ;    and the regi-
ment itself in the end was no loser, for, on the 9th of September,
he came back as its colonel, taking command on the 21st.
He passed through the severe campaigns of 1862-3, and, in
the fall  of the latter year, he was called to the charge of the
conscript  camp on  Gallop's  Island,  Boston Harbor,  having
been wounded in the neck at the battle of Gettysburg.  Here
he remained for several months, returning to his regiment in
the spring of 1864, in time to make the advance under Gen.
Grant, in which he took command of the brigade as its senior
colonel, and from this time to the end of his tei'm of service
continued to  occupy that position with credit  to  himself and
advantage to the service.
" As a soldier he was an excellent drill-master, thoroughly
proficient in his duties, infusing energy and thoroughness into
his  command.  At the seat  of war, he was ever a '  tower of
strength '    in the regiment, his dignified bearing, his moral ex-
ample and influence, and his unswerving integrity gaining for
him the esteem of all."
 - 311 - 
294              SKETCH or WEYMOUTH.
He possessed to a liigh degree the love and confidence of his
soldiers, and the respect and admiration of his superiors.   His
command was always to be relied upon, and his generals looked
with confidence upon the result of any duty intrusted to him.
His regiment or brigade always came into  the field  in good
order and in  its  proper position,  and  performed the  duties
assigned it as far as it was in the power of skill and courage to
do so.   His reputation as a faithful, reliable officer was not ex-
celled  by any in  the  service,  although many, perhaps, were
more brilliant.
He was mustered out of the United States service, July 8,
1865, and in December, 1868, in recognition of his  signal and
meritorious services during the three years in which he was a
soldier, and in which he was under fire  twenty-eight times, his
rank as brevet brigadier-general was confirmed.
"He was  a  charter  member of  Eeynolds  Post, No.  58,
G. A. R., on its  formation, July 14, 1868, and its commander
till  January, 1870, when he was elected  commander of  the
Department of  Massachusetts,  G. A. R., which position  he
held one  year ;     and on retiring  therefrom he again  became
commander of Post 58, and continued in ofiice till his decease.
'
After the close of the war he was chosen cashier of the South
Weymoutli National  Bank, an  organization just  established,
and continued in that  position for about two years, when he
retired from it to enter the brokerage business in Boston, with
FoggBros.  In this concern he remained but a short time, when
he formed a new partnership in the same business, under the
firm name of Bates & Albee.   This business was very unfortu-
nate, and in it he lost all  of his  property.   This was his  last
business venture, and he closed his eventful life  on the 11th
of August, 1875, in the fifty-sixth year of his  age, of disease
contracted in the army.  The news of his death was a matter of
deep regret and sorrow to his  many friends, particularly to  his
old army associates, and his funeral was attended in the Second
Congx'egational Church, South Weymouth, by a large concourse
of friends and the remnant of his  old regiment.   His funeral
sermon was delivered by Rev. George F. Stanton, pastor of
the church, and he was buried under military honors.
The following resolutions were passed by the Twelfth (Web-
ster) Regiment Association :  —
 - 312 - 
APPENDIX D.                       295
" TF/iej-effls, Our beloved colonel, James Lawrence Bales, having accom-
plished the high purposes of his life,  is  now mustered out of  service
here, and has responded to roll-call in the ranks of our comrades over the
border; therefore,
" Besolved, That we, his surviving comrades, former soldiers of  the
Twelfth Regiment of Massachusetts Volunteers, shaving deeply in the
sorrow which pervades many hearts at the loss which the country has
sustained in the death of this loyal citizen and gallant defender of our
liberties, bear unqualitied testimony to his bravery in battle, to his rare
skill and ability in command of his regiment, and for a long time, in the
most critical  period of the war, of a brigade;  to  his decision of char-
acter and great executive ability, to his personal dignity and worth, to his
kindness of heart, his affable  manners, and his consistent devotion to
truth, virtue, and temperance.
" Besolved, That these resolutions be placed upon the records of this
Association, and that a copy be forwarded to the family of the deceased,
to whom we offer our sincere sympathy and condolence."
In  his  business  relations  he  was  invariably  affable  and
respectful ;   in his social life  genial and lovable, while he held
the  respect of all with whom he came in  contact.    By his
townsmen he was held  in  high esteem, and possessed to  a
remarkable degree their confidence.
Gen. Bates  married,  first,  April  16,  1851, Betsey Dyer,
daughter of  Quincy and Hannah  W. {Dyer-Loud, born in
South Weymouth, Dec. 30,  1829, and died, of consumption,
Sept. 14, 1853, without issue.   He married, second, Jan. 24,
1856, Mary Jane, daughter of Capt. James and Betsey ( Wliit-
marsh-Tirrell, born in South Weymouth, Sept. 1, 1826.
Children :  —
I.   James Wilmot, born in South Weymouth, Nov. 20, 1856.
II.   Ai^NiE TiRRELL, born in South Weymouth, May 30, 1858; die
in South Weymouth, Feb. 25, 1880.
III.   Bessie Tirbell,, born in South Weymouth, July 16, 1864.
 - 313 - 
296               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
APPEISTDIX E.
[Page 56.]
The following is a copy of these resolutions, probably
from the pen of Dr. Cotton Tufts: —
To James Humpheey, Esq.
Sir: We the  freeholders and other inhabitants of the town
of Weymouth are assembled together at a time when the voice
of distress is heard not only from every pai-t  of this  province
but from the continent in general ;   the burdens we feel and the
greater we fear force out our groans and lead us to lay before
you the distresses of our hearts with whom we have intrusted
our most important Interests.   And we have the highest assur-
ance from your past integrity that no exertion of your abilities
will be wanting to effect the removal of these evils.   When we
consider the difficulties and encumbrances on trade and decay
of it  brought upon us by some late act of Parliament together
with the load of debt under which the Province labors we be-
hold poverty rushing in upon us like an Armed man;   but when
we take under consideration the Stamp Act, with all  its  conse-
quences, we can see nothing but misery and ruin in the province
resulting from the  execution of it  and a fatal wound to  the
trade and interests of our Mother Country.  The King our
father whom we liave  always esteemed and reverenced will
forgive us if we do not consent to our own ruin.   We will pre-
sume upon their clemency that they will not insist upon our
destruction ;    and therefore we do recommend to you decently
and steadily to oppose any measures in the General Court that
shall interest the province in any concern with the Stamp Act,
or stampt papers, either  directly or indirectly by the payment
of any charges that may have arisen  on their account, or by
giving any ordei's  for,  or consent to the  distribution of said
papers inasmuch as the house of Representatives has no warrant,
orders, or authority so to do ;   and we presume upon it that the
 - 314 - 
APPENDIX E.                       297
house will  not be so  imprudent as  to  undertake a business
" to which they have no appointment."  They are deposited (as
we are informed) in the castle  " there to be defended with all
the force of that fortress," and we imagine they need no other
protection, and trust that no one will offer so high an insult on
the King as to meddle with them in any shape.   We take it for
granted that no man on earth is  perfect, and that no body of
men can lay claim to infallibility, that so wise and great a body
as the parliament of Great Brittain is, have been mistaken that
what has been may be again ;   that men have natural rights, that
they have also rights  as  members of human Society, that to
assert explain, & vindicate them, is but acting up to  the  char-
acter of men and of I'ational Beings.   We do therefore instruct
you, upon all  occasions to assert & vindicate the rights  and
privilidges of free born British subjects and the rights and pi'ivi-
lidges delivered to us by Charter from a Kingof Great Brittain,
acknowledged & consented to, really or virtually by the parli-
ment thereof,  and to use your best endeavor in the  General
Assembly to have these clearly stated and left upon the records
of the province that posterity may know that we never did or
could voluntarily Submit to  Slavery & ruin.   We cannot but
complain of the hardships to  which we are  exposed  by the
enlargement of the Court of Admiralty an enlargement which
takes from us one of the most essential rights of Englishmen,
that is  of being tried by Juries, those several acts afibremen-
tioned are so many tax acts by which money must be drawn
from us and we suppose without our consent having no idea or
the least remembrance of our having been represented in par-
liament and we really look upon these  taxations, and the ex-
traordinary power of the admiralty Judges as so manynovelties
that time itself will never reconcile us to, that they are subver-
sive of the happiness and welfare of the province, destructive to
the interests of the Mother country, that they not only involve
in them the destruction of our particular rights and privilidges,
but also strike at the very foundation of the English Constitu-
tion, in short if they are not repealed we fear such prejudices
will arise in the minds of the people, and their affections to the
Government at home be so weakened that it will be a very long
time before the former can be removed, or the latter renewed.
 - 315 - 
298               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
If the Parliament of GreatBrittain which cannot be immediately
acquainted with our aljilities  & necessities shall  from time to
time tax us and the province tax us at the same time from these
two taxations great inequalities  and injustice  will  arise,  and
consequently the end of Government be destroyed so that even
allowing the parliament's right to tax us (which at present we
are not convinced of) yet we imagine with submission to  that
august Body it would not be wisdom in 'em to execute it.    We
have ever supposed our charter the Greatest security that could
be had in  human affairs, this was the sentiments of our fore-
fathers, they have told us they never should have left  the land
of their nativity and tied to these ends of the earth, triumphed
over dangers, encountered difficulties innumerable, and suffered
hardships unparaled but for the sake of securely enjoying civil
and religious  liberty and that the  same might be transmitted
safe to their posterity ;    they it is well known settled this coun-
try at the expense of their own blood and treasure.   The coun-
try has risen, grown and been defended without any expense to
the Government at  home, till within a few years past, and be-
sides defending ourselves we have several times saved some of
his  Majesties provinces from destruction ;     and once at  least
given peace to Europe.  The profit of our labour has from time
to time centered in Great Brittain by which her riches, her rev-
enues & inhabitants  have  increased  mightily ;     we are  (not-
withstanding the assistance granted us in the last war) far from
thinking that  there  is  any just reason for laying such heavy
burdens on us ;    and if it  is  necessary in  this  time of peace to
raise a sum of money for the defence of our frontiers (it  being
said for our comfort) the money raised by the Stamp Act is  to
be applied partly to  that end, we had much rather be at our
proportionable expence of forever defending our frontiers than
to  comply with that Act, and in  any Constitutional  way, we
shall ever be ready to contribute our utmost to the assistance of
our mother country :  —
We further instruct you to use your utmost endeavor to pro-
mote publick frugality to  prevent any unconstitutional grants
and any unaccustomed draughts upon the treasury of the pub-
lick money be only applied to the purposes to which it  is  from
time to time appropriated.
 - 316 - 
APPENDIX E.                        299
Whilst with pleasure we behold a general sense of liberty
and those essential Constitutional rights, freedom of speech and
of the press now prevailing we do at the same time entertain a
just abhorance to  any violence  committed upon any person
or persons whatsoever.   As to any other affairs we leave their
management to your noted prudence and judgment in which we
place the highest confidence.
 - 317 - 
300              SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
APPENDIX F.
[Page 70.]
The following very imperfect list  is  made mainly
from the town treasurer's account.  Athorough exam-
ination of the records at the State House, Boston, would
no doubt add largely to it.    Some of the names, it will
be noticed, are not those of recognized Weymouth ori-
gin, and the men were evidently strangers, enlisted by
the townto fill its various quotas, as was the case in the
Rebellion of 1861-55   but the proportion is not large.
SOLDIEES IN THE EEVOLUTIONARY WAR.
Ager, Ebenezer.                          Blancher, Abner.
Ager, Jonathan.                          Blancher, Daniel, Jr.
Ayers, Edward.                        Blancher, Josiah.
Bates, Jesse.                                  Blancher, Dea. Samuel.
Bates, Jonathan.                         Blancher, Simeon.
Bates, Lebbeus,                          Blancher, Theophilus.
Bates, Robert.                             Burrell, Ephraim.
Bates, Samuel.                          Burrell, Ephraim, Jr.
Bates, Tliaddeus.                          Burrell, John.
Bates, William, Jr.                            Burrell, Reuben.
Bayley, Abner.                          Canterbury, John.
Bayley, Nathaniel.                         Colson, Christopher.
Bayley, Samuel.                          Colson, David.
Beals, Azariah.                            Colson, Gideon.
Beals, Seth.                                  Colson, James.
Beals, Seth, Jr.                                 Copeland, Gershom.
Bender, Christopher.                       Cushing, Azel.
Binney, Elkanah.                        Gushing, Lieut. Er.
Bicknell, Benjamin.                      Cushing, Frederick.
Bicknell, David.                          Cusliiug, Regemelech.
Bicknell, Ezra.                             Cusliing, Thomas.
Bicknell, Levi.                               Delano, Amasa.
Bicknell, Lemuel.                       Dyer, Lieut. Asa.
Bicknell, Samuel.                        Dyer, Benjamin.
Bicknell, Zachariah.                      Dyer, Jesse.
 - 318 - 
APPENDIX F.                          301
Dyer, Solomon.                          Nash, Moses,
Dyer, Stevens.                              Nash, Capt. Thomas.
Fessenden, Moses.                        Nash, Timothy.
French, Asa.                              Nash, Zadoc.
French, Isaac.                                 Oliver, Jonathan.
Goolcl, Gardner.                           Orcutt, Benjamin.             K. or D.
Goold, Thomas.                        Orcutt, Moses.
Gurney, David.                           Peakes, Benjamin.
Gurney, Jonathan.                        Porter, Jacob.
Holbrook, Abiezer.                         Porter, Micah.
Holbrook, Nathaniel.                       Porter, Capt. Thomas.
Holbrook, Samuel.            K. or D.   Porter, Thomas.             K. or D.
Holbrook, Silas.                                  Pratt, Abiah.
Holbrook, Silvanus.                          Pratt, Benjamin.
Holbrook, William.                       Pratt, Gushing.
Hollis, Ebenezer.                          Pratt, David.
Humphrey, Jonas.                    K,    Pratt, Ephraim.
Hunt, Benoni.                             Pratt, Ichabod.
Hunt, Ebenezer, Jr.                            Pratt, James.                 K. or D.
Hunt, Eliphaz.                              Pratt, John, Jr.
Hunt, John.                   K. or D.   Pratt, Joshua.
Hunt, Melzar,                             Pratt, Lallan.
Hunt, Robert.                              Pratt, Matthew.
Hunt, Samuel.                           Pratt, Nehemiah.             K. or D.
Hunt, Zachariah.                          Pratt, Samnel, Jr.
Jeffers, John.                             Pratt, Silvanus.
Joy, Lieut. David.                        Pratt, Solomon.
Joy, Eben.                              Pratt, Daniel.
Joy, Jacob, Jr.                                 Reed, Asa.                    K. or D.
Joy, Noah.                   K. or D-   Reed, Ezra.
Kingman, Lieut. Samuel.                 Reed, John, 3d.
Lewis, Jonathan.                          Reed, Samuel.
Lincoln, Israel.                                 Rice, Josiah.
Loud, David.                              Ripley, William, Jr.
Loud, Eliot, Jr.                                 Rozary, Silas.
Loud, Eliphalet.                              Shaw, Caleb.                   K. or D.
Loud, Esau.                              Shaw, Nathaniel.
Loud, Jacob,                               Thayer, Barnabas.
Loud, Peleg.                    K. or D.    Thayer, Ebenezer.                  D.
Loud, William.                            Thayer, John               K. or D.
Lovell, Josiah.                               Thayer, Obadiah, Jr.
Lovell, Samuel.                          Thayer, Solomon.
LoveU, Gen. Solomon.                     Thomas, Prince.
Morton, Isaac.                                Tirrell, Benjamin.
Morton, Isaac, Jr.                             Tirrell, Ebenezer.             K. or D.
Morton, Micah.                           Tirrell, Thomas.                  P.
Nash, Alexander.                         Torrey, Jonathan.
Nash, Caleb.                                Torrey, Joshua, Jr.
Nash, Elisha.                                Torrey, Noah.
Nash, Ezra.                                Trufant, David.
Nash, Job.                                 Trufant, Joshua.
Nash, Joseph, Jr.                               Trufant, Capt. Joseph.
 - 319 - 
302               SKETCH OF WEYMOUTH.
Turner, Jacob.
Turner, Micah, Jr.
Vining, Benjamin, Jr.
Vining, David.
Vining, Jolin.                    K. or D,
Vinson, John.
Vinson, Lieut. Thomas.
Ward, Capt. Samuel.
Waterman, David.
Weston, Eliphaz.
Weston, Simeon.
White, Amon.
White, Capt. Asa.
White, Benjamin.
White, Daniel.
White, James.
White, John.
White, Luther.
White, Nathaniel.
White, Nehemiah.
White, Samuel, Jr.
Whitman, David.
Whitman, Nehemiah.
Whitmarsh, SamueL
Wild, John.
K. or D., killed or died In the serrloe.             P., taken priioner.
 - 320 - 
INDEX.
 - 321 - 
 - 322 - 
INDEX.
Abbott, Rev. Levi A., 122.
Luther C, 227.
Abell (Able), Robert,  262, 267, 273.
Abercrombie's brigade, 217.
Abington (town of),  13, 45, 49,  79,
126, 147, 151, 167, 170,  193,  216,
286.
Abraham, Plains of, 52.
Academy, Weymouth and Braintree,
sketch of, 132.
of Arts andSciences, American, 191.
Acadia, 53.
Adamant (brig), 153.
Adams (Adames, Addames).
Abigail (Smith, 90, 102.
Charles Francis,  Jr.,  Esq.,  19,  22,
23, 90, 91.
Charles Francis, Jr.,  Esq., address
of, 20.
Elizabeth, 102.
George M., 227.
Henry, 263, 276.
Dea. John, 169.
John, 90, 102, 169.
John Quincy, 102, 169.
Mary, 102, 169, 248.
Mary Cheame, 248.
Nathaniel, 254,  257, 258, 261, 273,
274.
Nathaniel, land of,  269.
Richard, 40, 248, 254, 255, 257, 260,
261, 263, 265, 268, 269, 270, 274,
280.
Richard, land of, 258.
Susan\ia (Boylston, 169.
Thothas, 281.
Addington, Isa, 253.
Addomes.  [See Adams.]
Adjutant General's report 225.
Adlington, Stephen L., 227.
Walter S., 227.
Advance, the Weymouth, 133.
20
Agents of towns to meet in Boston,
56.
Ager, Ebenezer, 300.
Jonathan, 300.
Agricultural and Industrial Society,
sketch of, 142.
Aid to soldiers' families, 84, 85.
Alarmto be rung, 61.
Alden's, Dr. Ebenezer, Early History
of the Medical Profession of Nor-
folk County, 184, 189.
Alewives, action concerning, 47, 48,
80.
Alexandria, "Va., I7i.
Allen, Charles H., 227.
Allin (Allyn).
Ebenezer, 281.
George, 248, 255, 261, 264, 269, 274.
land of, 265.
George, Jr., 248, 282.
John, 255, 261, 264, 267, 269, 276,
282.
land of, 255,
Katheryn, 248.
Mathew, 248.
Ralph (Ralfe), 255, 257,  269, 273,
277.
land of, 261.
Will., 248.
Allison, Walter, 227.
Allyn.  [See Allin.]
Alstead(N. H.) High School, 208.
Ambler (White and), 203.
America, 18,  23,  74,  158,  159,  162,
181, 183, 189, 290.
American Continental Congress,  58.
Medical Society, Paris, 206.
Ames, William F.,  227.
AmherstCollege, 175, 177, 200.
First Church of, 172.
Second Church of,  177.
(town of), 177.
 - 323 - 
306                      INDEX.
Ammunitionto be furnisliod  by tbo
town, 01.
to be refunded, 61.
Ancientand Honorable Artillery Com-
pany, 197.
Andover Theological Seminary, 105,
17.3, 175
(town of),  133,  166,  175,  178,  197,
204,  291.
Andrew, Governor, 220.
Andrews, Edward G., 227.
Dr., 213.
Andros, Sir Edmund, trouble  with,
42, 43.
Androsse, Goodman, 282.
Annals (Prince's), 181.
Annapolis, Md., 222.
Anniversary, two hundred and fif-
tieth, of the town, 90.
Antietam, lattle of,  217, 221.
Antigonish, N. S., 211.
Anti-Masonic excitement, 140.
Anti-Slavery resolutions, 81, 82.
Appendix A, 247.
B, 250.
C, 254.
D, 285.
E, 296.
F, 300.
Applegate, Thomas, 255, 281
Appleton, William S., note of, 250.
Appomattox(river), 223.
Aquarius (tire engine), 92.
Archives (State), 37,  39, 40, 41, 44,
52, 53.
(town), 214
Arlington Heights, 221.
Armington, J. W., Esq., 11 8.
Armsto be furnished by the town, 60,
61.
Arnold(General), 71.
John, 39.
Capt. Samuel, 76.
Arnold's tavern, 59.
Arthur, Joseph, 144.
Artillery Company, Weymouth, 138.
Ashburnham(town of), 201.
Ashdown, John, 39.
Ashfleld (town of),  granted to Capt.
Hunt, 44.
Ashford, Conn., 192.
Ashland Cemetery, 199.
Associations, ]3o.
Athol (iX'iliot.'i),  16.
Atkinson Academy, 205.
N. H., 205.
.James, 227.
Atlantic coast, 222.
Ocean, 3.
Attleborough (town of), 207.
Augusta, Me., 211.
Authorities cited, 10.
Avery, Edward, 140.
Axtell, Kev. Seth J., 122.
Ayers, Edward, 300.
Babcock, Kev. E. G., 118.
Baber, Francis, 247.
Back River (Kiuer), 13,  14,  15,  17,
26, 47, 79, 144, 147, 152, 266, 269,
270, 273, 275, 276.
Backer River, 265
Badlam (Bedlam), Samuel, 44.
Wilham, 44.
Bailey, Christopher T., 227.
Orestes L., 227.
Bailie.  [See Bayley.]
Balser, Andrew J., 227.
Calvin R., 227.
Charles H., 227.
Howard, 227.
Rev. Jacob, 120.
William H., 227.
Baldwin, Everett, 227.
Ball, 13r. Josiah, sketch of, 203.
Sarah (Taylor, 203.
Ballot, first vote by, 41.
Balsh, Maria Stillman, 200.
Baltimore (Md ), 217.
Baly.  [See Bayley.]
Banbury, England, 161, 162.
Bangor Theological Seminary, 177.
Bank, East Weymouth Savings, 149.
First  National,  South  Weymouth,
149.
South Weymouth Savings, 149.
Union National, Weymouth, 149.
Union, of Weymouth and Braintree,
148.
Weymouth Savings, 149.
Banks'sdivision, 217.
General (N. P.), 225.
Baptist, First  Church and Society,
sketch of, 121.
 - 324 - 
INDEX.                       307
Barbar, Lemuel, 52.
Bare Cove, boundary of, 26.
Barnard (Bernard).
John, 247.
Mary, 247.
Mussacheill  (Mesecliill,  Mr.),  247,
2,56, 262, 267, 272, 281.
land of, 273.
Nathaniel, 247.
Eev. Mr., 24, 96, 97, 157, 158.
Rev. Tiieophilus, 166.
Barnes, Ferdinand J., 227.
Robert B., 227.
Barnstable (town of), loi,  158, 159,
166.
Barrett, Catherine Pallisseuir, 207.
Barry, Rev. John S., 118, 119.
Barstow, Rev. F. 0., 124.
Bartlett, George, 227.
Bass, E. W. H., 140.
Sarah, 187.
Batcombe, England, 247, 248, 249.
Bate.  [See Bates.]
Bates, Albert, 227.
Alfred L., 227.
and Albee, 294.
and Reed, 291.
Annie Tirrell, 295.
Bessie Tirrell, 295.
Betsey Dyer (Loud, 295.
Charles W., 227.
Edmund 6., 140.
(Bate), Edward (Elder, Mr.),  127,
144,  161, 255, 258, 259, 260, 261,
265, 282, 283, 289.
land of, 254.
Capt. Elijah, 193, 289, 290.
Elijah R., 227.
James L.,  Gen., 83,  139,  142,  218
227.
sketch of, 289.
James Wilmot, 295.
Jesse, 300.
John F., 227.
John W., 116, 227.
Jonathan, 300.
Leavett, 227.
Lebbeus, 300.
Levi, Capt., 76, 138.
Levi L., 227.
Lewis D., 227.
MaryJane (Tirrell, 295.
Bates (Mill), 48, 143, 144.
Noah, 52.
O. B., Esq., 113.
Robert, 300.
Samuel, 300.
Samuel A., 141, 227.
Sarah (Torrey, 289.
Stephen, 227.
Thaddeus, 300.
William, 52.
"William, Jr., 300.
WilliamL., 227.
Baton Rouge, La, 225.
Bay (the), 266, 269.
BayColony, 7, 160.
Bay  State  Hammock  Company,
155.
Bayley (Baylie,  Baly, Bailey, Bailie).
Abner, 300.
Benjamin, 178.
Charlotte, 288.
Daniel, 178.
Widow Deborah (Pratt, 288.
Elizabeth, 178, 288.
Eev. James (Mr.), 9, 108, 109, 287.
sketch of, 177.
James, Jr., 178.
John, 178.
Joshua, 178.
Lydia, 288.
Mary, 178, 288.
Nathaniel (Dea. Capt.), 52, 56,  57,
58, 59, 60,  61,  64,  71,  129,  178,
288, 300.
sketch of, 287.
Samuel, 178, 300.
Samuel, Major, 288.
Samuel P., Capt ,   138.
(Mrs.) Sarah, 178, 287.
Sarah, 178.
Tamar, 288.
Tamar (White, 288.
Thomas, 40, 178, 254, 259, 265, 268,
273, 278, 279, 281,283, 284.
deed to,  279.
Beal, Jeremiah, 186.
Nathaniel, 287.
Beale, Abigail, 188.
Alpheus, 189.
Daniel, 189.
Jeremiah, 189.
John, 189.
 - 325 - 
308                       INDEX.
Beale, Doa. Lazarus, 189.
Lazarus, 190.
Dr. Lazarus Andrews, sketch of, 189.
Lydia (Wheat, 189.
Lusitauus, 189.
Martha, 189.
(Mrs.) Ruth, 189.
Solomon J., Esq., 189.
(Mrs.) Susanua, 189.
Beals, Augustus, 155.
Azariah, 300.
Berthia (Lewis, 190.
Elias,  190.
Elias E.,  227.
Elias S., Esq., 190.
Elizabeth, 190.
Lewis, 190.
Lydia, 190.
Seth, 300.
Seth, Jr., 300.
Bearce, Simeon, 227.
Beard, Austin p., 227.
Beaulieu, Mo.ses, 227.
Beck, Bertha M., 213.
E. S. (Malcoin, 213.
Fred, 213.
Dr. Judson L., sketch of, 213.
Bedlam [see Badlam], Samuel, 44.
Belcher, Alfred C, 227.
Belle Plain (Va.), 218.
Bellevue Hospital Medical College,
211.
Bellingham, Gov., 1G4.
Bender, Christopher, 300.
Benet.  [See Bennett ]
Bennett CBenet),  Edward, 252, 257,
265, 266, 268, 271, 273, 277, 278,
280.
land of, 274.
Bent, Henry K. W., 172.
llev. Josiah, Jr., 105.
sketch of, 171.
Josiah {3d), 172.
(Mrs.) Paulina, 172.
Paulina Rice, 172.
Samuel Adams, 172.
Susan Sarah, 172.
Thaoher Tucker, 172.
Berge.  [See Burge.]
Berkshire Medical College, 203, 204.
Bernard.  [See Barnard.]
Berstow, John, 255.
Beverly (town of), 15R.
Bicknell (Bickewell, Bickwell).
Agnis, 248.
Anson F., 227.
Benjamin, 300.
Charles E., 227.
David, 300.
Ezra, 300.
Francis A., 227.
Frederick T., 227.
George W., 227.
John, 248, 283.
John Q., 227.
Lemuel, 300.
Levi, 300.
Lovell, 140.
Robert, widow of, 201.
Sa:r.uel, 300.
Zachariah  (Zackary, Zakry),  101,
248, 279, 281, 300.
Z L., 140.
Bienville, Lewis, 227.
Billerica (town of), 170, 171.
Bingham, Clarence V., 228.
Binney, Elkanah, 300.
Isaac H., 228.
John, 228.
Binney's, 79.
Birmingham, Matthew, 228.
Richard, 228.
Biscoe, Rev. Mr., 110.
Bishop (historian), 159.
Blackman, John H.. 228.
Blackstone (Mr.), 182.
Blade Mill, 144.
Blake, James, 103, 128.
.John, 282. 284.
Blanchard (Blancher), Abner, 300.
Alonzo, 228.
Alonzo W., 228.
Charles B., 228.
(Blancher), Daniel, Jr., 300.
David, 285.
Edward, 194.
Frank, 228,
George W., 228.
James B., 228.
John, 228.
John, Jr ,   228.
Joseph, 52.
(Blauclier), Josiali, 300.
Lucinda (Torrey, 194.
 - 326 - 
INDEX.                       309
Blanchard, Mark M., 228.
Nathaniel, 52, 53.
O. S., 228.
Otis S., 228.
Eichard, 61.
(Blaucher), IJea. Samuel, 300,
(Blaucher), Simeon, 300,
(Blaucher), Tlieophilus, 300.
Thomas S ,  228
Bliss' History of Rehoboth, 30.
Bodge, (Rev.) G. M., 40.
Bolster, Rev. William H., 114.
Bolter, Richard, 2-^3.
Bond, Hannah Cranch, 196.
Boodrue, John, 228.
Boot and shoe manufacture, 150, 151.
Boston (town and city of),  6,  10, 13,
15, 27, 28,  29, 37, 38, 39,  42,  49,
50, 53,  56,  57,  58, 65,  70,  71,  74,
76,87,97,98, 100,  101,  105,  112,
139,  146,  147,  150, 153, 160,  161,
162,  163,  165,  166, 167, 168,  169,
171,  172, 173,  183, 184, 193,  195,
199,  200, 202, 203, 204, 206, 213,
216, 219, 220, 225, 250, 251, 253,
286, 290, 292, 294, 300.
City Hospital, 206.
Committee, letter from, 57.
Gazette, 169.
Harbor, 5,  13, 19, 23, 138,  154, 212,
216, 293.
jail, 81.
schools, 202.
tiiege of, 70, 71.
taxes, 25.
University, 118, 213.
Boundaries established, 25.
town, 13.
Bounties to  soldiers,  61,  62,  63,  84,
86, 87.
Bourne, Ezekiel P., 228.
L. v., 228.
Bowditoh, Alden, 140.
Frederick H., 228.
Bowdoin (College), 200, 210, 211.
Medical School, 210.
Bowers, Hannah, 2d, 171.
Bowin, Richard, 257, 260, 261, 272.
land of, 273.
Bowker, James B., 228.
Bowles, Rev. B.    120.
Boxford (town of), 175.
Boyle, Mary Ann, 211.
Bradford, Governor, 24, 181.
Steplien S., 140.
Bradford's History, 19, 24.
letter book, 25.
Bradley Fertilizer  Company, sketch
of, 1.54.
Peter B. (tow-boat), 154.
William L., 154.
Bradstreat, Gov., 44,
Brady, Thomas, 228.
Bragg, Dr. Ira W., 228.
Braintree (town of) (Brantry, Brain-
try, Brauntry), 13, 16,  34, 38, 44,
4.5, 49, 53,79, 107,  111,  112, 132,
147, 148, 149,  162,  169, 187,  188,
192, 198.
line Oyue), 282, 283.
Brandon (Brandin),  William,  260,
264, 267, 269, 278, 282.
Brastow, Miss Lucy M. K., 133.
Brauntry [see Braintree], 282, 283.
Bresnahan, Michael, 228.
Bridge, a, 260.
over the Smelt Brook, 49.
Bridgewater  (town  of),  104,  112,
122, 167, 182, 185.
Bridgton Academy, 210.
High School, 210.
Brigges.  [See Briggs.]
BriggS, Charles E., 228.
(Brigges)  Clement,  257,  262,  270,
281.
land of,  264.
Ephraim, 109.
Henry H., 228.
John H., 228.
Widow, 282, 283.
Brinsmead, Rev. Mr.,  164.
Bristol (county), 3.
South  District  Medical  Society,
201.
British. Museum, 94.
subjects, 297.
Britton (Brittin), James, 264, 282.
Broad Street, 11 7, 122.
Broadway, England, 249.
Broolslyn, N. Y., 224.
Brooks, Spencer L ,  228.
Brown, Dennis, 228.
George, 228.
James, 228.
 - 327 - 
310                      INDEX.
Brown, Mary K. (Wilson, 210.
liev. Miss Olympia, 119.
lloscoe B., 210.
Dr. Roscoe EUsworth, sketch  of,
210.
University, 199.
Brunswick, Me., 210.
Bryan, Lt.-Col. T. M., 216.
Bryant, James A., 228.
Biickland (town of),  203.
Buckmaster, Michael, 228.
Buker, Leonard E., 228.
Bullard, Joanna, 203.
Bull Run, second battle of, 217.
Burbank, Major Elisha M., 216.
Burge (Burg, Berge),  John, 277, 283
284.
land of, 256.
Burns, Francis D., 228.
John W., 228.
Burnside, Gen., 221.
Burr, E. Waters, 140.
Burrell, Charles H., 228.
David B., 228.
Ephraim, 300.
Ephraim, Jr., 300.
Humphrey, 52.
Col. Isaac S., 85, 224.
John, 38, 260, 263,  269,  282, 283
300.
land of, 259.
John G., 228.
John P., 228.
Joseph H., Jr., 228.
Lavinia (Torrey, 194.
Martin D., 228.
Martin J., 228.
Oliver, 220, 228.
Reuben, 194, 300.
Richmond, 228.
Richmond P., 229.
Samuel E., 229.
W. L., 228.
William L., 229.
mill, 144.
Burroughs, Rev. Mr., 124.
Bursley  (Burslem,  Busley),   John
(Mr.), 25,  26,  159, 258, 266, 269,
270, 274, 277.
Burying Hill, 27, 90, 96, 99, 165.
Hand, 258, 266, 269, 271, 275, 277.
Business enterprises, 76.
Busley [woe Bu^sloy], 277.
Butterworth, John, 262, 271.
San>uel, 200,269, 278, 281, 282, 283.
Widow, 281.
Byram, Abigail, 182.
Deliverance, 182.
Experience, 183.
Mary, 183.
Nicholas, 272, 282.
Dr. Nicholas, sketch of, 182.
Nicholas, Jr., 182.
Susannah, 183.
Susannah (Shaw, 182.
Cady, Benjamin L., 229.
Lorenzo, 229.
Cahill, Thomas, 229.
Cain, Leonard W., 229.
Stephen, 141, 229.
Cairo, 111., 222.
Cakebread, Isaac, 39.
Calder, Mr., 128.
California, I5i, 203, 291.
fever, 291.
Calnan, John, 229.
Cambridge College  [see  Harvard],
125, 171.
(town of), 59, 66, 171.
Camden, Me., 177.
Camp Meigs. 223, 224.
N. p. Banks, 224.
Stanton, 220.
Campbell's Station, fight at, 222.
Canada, 30, 44, 51, 71.
Canadian expedition, 44, 62, 71.
Canning establishment, 156.
Canterbury, John, 52, 53, 300.
Stephen, 52.
William, 229.
Cape Cod, 21.
Sable, 152.
Carey, Timothy, 229.
Carney, Thomas, 229.
William, 229.
Carpenter, William,  252,  256, 261,
268.
land of, 278.
Carroll, Jolm, 229.
Michael, 229.
Carrollton, La., 224.
Carruth, Major Sumner, 220.
Casey, Brig.-Gen., 220.
 - 328 - 
INDEX.                       311
Castle, William, 138.
Carter, Galen A., 229.
Cedar Mountain (battle of), 2 1  7.
(Cedar)   Swamp,  Svvampe   [see
Sedar], 25-t, 270, 273.
Cemetery, Highland, 185.
Old North, 90, 167, 168.
Chamberlain, K.,  ui.
Chancellorsville, battle of, 218.
Chandler, Bradford, 229.
Chapel (First Church) built, 106.
Chapin, Charles Emmons, 177.
Ebenezer, 176.
Edwin Kol)inson, 177.
Prank Sumner, 177.
Eev. F. P., 107.
sketch of,  176.
Margaret (McFarlane, 177.
Robert McFarlane, 177.
Sarah Louisa, 177.
Sarah (Robinson, 176.
Sarah S. (Wallace, 177.
Chapman, Daniel L., 229.
Chard, William,  125,  126,  281,  282,
283.
Charity (ship), 19.
Charles Osgood (transport), 224.
Charlestown (church of), ici.
(town of), 101, 164, 168.
Chase, Abial H., 229.
Chauncey, Rev. Charles, 163, 183.
Chelsea (city of), 220.
Chessman, KB., 229.
Chicago, 111.,  176.
Chickering, Bathsheba, 162.
Chickin, Joseph, 249.
Childs, John, 229.
Church, attempt to form a new one,
98.
first,  102,  105,  168,  170,  175,  176,
177.
First Congregational, 95.
originally Episcopalian, 95.
gradual change, 96.
of England, 5, 23, 95.
of  Weymouth, 161, 163,  165,  166,
168, 169, 288.
records, commenced when, 103.
records, want of early, 8, 9, 10.
troubles, 7, 28, 97, 98.
Churchill, Joshua F., 229.
Julius R., 229.
Cincinnati (Ohio), 222.
City Hospital, Boston, 206.
Point (Va.), 219.
Clap (Clapp), Thomas, 276.
Clape (Clapp), Thomas, 273, 276,
Clapp, Loring 0., 229,
wife of Thomas, 269.
William H., 229.
Clark, Albert, 229.
(Rev.) Daniel A., 112.
Cleftone.  [See Clifton.]
Cleverly, Thomas F.,  120.
Clifton (Clifdon, Cleftone),  Thomas,
256, 259, 277.
land of, 260.
Clinton Street (Boston), 216.
Clothier, Jeremiah, 39.
Coal trade, 153, 154.
Cobb, Sally,  168.
Rev. Sylvanus, 120.
Coburn, Hiram S., 85, 229.
Cocheco, N. H., 159.
Coffin, Rev. Mr., 119.
Coffran, Dr. Charles, sketch of,  202.
Cohasset, alarm at, 77, 78.
precinct records, 189.
(town of), 189, 190, 208.
Cokeley, Dennis, 229.
Humphrey, 229.
Cole, Rev. Gideon, 121, 122.
Coleman, Thomas, 229.
College, Amherst, 175, 177.
Cambridge [see Harvard], 125, 171.
Dartmouth, 201, 208.
Harvard.  [See Harvard.]
New Jersey, 109, 179.
Yale, 204.
Collet, Frederick, 229.
Colonial records, 10,  25.
Colonies (the), 286, 287.
Colored troops, 203.
Colson, Christopher, 300.
David, 300.
Ebenezer, 57.
Frederick B., 229.
Gideon, 69, 300.
James, 300.
Josiah, 59.
Thomas, Jr., 52.
ColSOn'S mill, 145.
Columbia Street, 199.
ColumbianHall, 119.
 - 329 - 
312                      INDEX.
Comer,John, 282, 283.
Commerce (sliip),  15.3.
Commercial Company, 153.
Street, 188, 190, 212.
Committee of  Correspondence, 57,
58, 59, 60, 61.
of militia, 37, 38, 39, 40.
of safety, 78.
on town history, 1.
Commons (town), 34, 49, 50, 255,257,
258, 259, 262, 263, 264, 266, 267,
268, 269, 270, 271, 273, 27.5, 276,
277, 279.
CompaniesF, G, H, I, K, I2th Regt.,
216.
Company A, 42d Regt.,  85,  223  to
225.
H,12th Regt., 83, 87, 216 to 219, 292,
H, 35th Regt., 85, 220 to 223.
G, 4th Heavy Art., 87, 226.
of horse, 41.
Concord, N. H., 211.
(town of), 58, 66, 207.
Concordance, Cruden's (Newman's),
162.
Congregational Church, East Wey-
mouth, 114, 117.
churches, 95.
Congress at Cambridge, 59.
at WatertowD, 60.
resolutions of, 58.
Connecticut, 30,37, 167, 194.
River, 37, 38.
Conner, Daniel, 229.
Conners, Patrick, 229.
Constables to be held harmless, 58.
Constitution (State), 66, 67.
proposed amendments to, 67.
(United States), 74.
Continental Congress, 58.
(transport), 225.
Contributionsfor soldiers, 86, 87.
Convention in Boston, 74.
(vState), at Cambridge, 66,
ConyAcademy, 211.
Cook, Thomas W., 229.
Cooke, Elisha, 253.
Robert, 258, 269.
(Cook), Walter, 282, 283.
land of, 268.
Cooley, Rev. Henry E., 1 14.
Coolidge, Amos R., 229,
Coolidge, Francis E., 229.
Frederick, 229.
George H., 229.
Ricliard S., 229.
William F., 229.
Coombs, Rev. H. C, 122.
Cooper Lodge (K. of H.), 142.
Copeland, Ger.shom, 300.
Jane, 205.
Copp, John, 126.
Corban, Frank, 229.
Roswell L., 229.
Corbet, Robert, 39.
Corlieu, Dr. Joseph, sketch of, 208.
Joseph, 208.
Mary, 208.
Cornwall County, England, 159.
Corporations, 148.
Corr, Owen, 229.
Cotter, Patrick, 229.
Cotton, Rev. John, 160.
Coughlan, Thomas, 229.
Council at Dorchester, 98, 160.
of New England, 22.
records of, 45.
(State), 285.
Counters, boot and shoe, 156.
Country highway, 271.
Courier, Weymouth, 133, 134.
Court"of Admiralty, 297.
of Common Pleas, 169.
quarterly, to be held at Boston, 27.
record, 10.
Covington, Ky., 222.
Cowing, Charles G., 230.
Henry V., 230.
Cow-pox, inoculation with, 7"
Craddock, George, 187.
Cranch, Elizabeth, 171.
Elizabeth (Pearse, 169.
John, 169.
Mary (Smith, 171.
Hon. Richard, 102, 169, 171.
Creek (creeke), 257, 258, 267, 268, 269,
270, 272,
CrescentLodge (1. O. O. F.), 141,
Crocker, Mrs. Anna, 179,
Charles A., 230.
Elery C, 230.
Enoch, 230.
Cronin, Patrick, 230.
Crosley, Rev. L. S., 119,
 - 330 - 
INDEX.                       313
CrownPoint, 51.
Cudworth, Beujamin, 230.
Cully, Andrew, 230.
Culpepper (Va.), 218.
Cummings, William L., 230.
Cunningham, John, 230.
Currency, depreciation of, 66.
Currying business, 155.
Curtis, Charles H., 230.
Gushing, Major Adam, 103, 138.
Adjutant, 78.
Alanson B., 230.
Alfred T., 230.
Azel, 300.
Charles B., Esq., 114.
Charles E,, 230.
David W., 230.
Edward, 230.
Elbridge G., 230.
Elisha, 289.
Lieut. Er, 71,300.
Francis H., 230.
Frederick, 300.
Frederick O., 230.
George A., 230.
George C, 230.
George F., 230.
Henry F., 230.
Capt. Hervey, 201, 289.
John F., 230.
Lemuel, 128.
Eegemelech, 300.
Thomas, 52, 53, 300.
Thomas B., 230.
William, 141.
William E., 230.
William N., 230.
William N. (2d), 230.
William Newton, 230.
Dabyn, Robert, 247.
Daffy, Thomas, 230.
Daggett, Henry T., 230.
Dailey, Israel N., 230.
Dakota, le.
Dallof, Albert W., 230.
Dalton, John W., 230.
Daly, Dennis, 230.
Dame, Joseph T., 230.
Damon, Albert, 230.
Isaac B., 230.
Damon, Joshua F., 230.
Damon, Proctor A., 230.
Zachariah, 230.
Darby, Jonathan, 52.
Hon Richard, thanks to, 61.
Dartmoor Prison (England), 171,
Dartmouth College, 201, 208.
Davenport, Capt. Nathaniel, 163.
Rev. Mr., 119, 163.
David, C. F., 134.
Davidson, Albert, 230.
Davis, Rev. Benjamin H., 19,
Adj. Charles A., 224.
Rev. Emerson, 99.
George R., 230.
Horatio A., 230.
John, 230.
Leonard I., 230.
Samuel, 163.
Davon, Michael, 230.
Davy, Manning, 230.
William H., 231.
Day, Greenleaf, 231,
J. H., 231.
James B., 231,
Joshua D., 231.
Dean, Benjamin R., 231.
Seth, 231.
Declaration of Independence, 62,
to be read from the pulpits, 62.
Dedham (town of), 103, 182
Deed of sale of Weymouth, 251 to 253.
Deere, Elias H., 231.
Deering, N. H., 208.
Delano, Amasa, 300.
Delawney, Michael, 231.
Delphi Lodge (K. of P.), ui.
Delta Lodge (Masonic), 140.
Denbroeder, Adrainus, 231,
Denham, Rev. George, 114.
Dennis, Rev. Mr., 119.
Denton, Samuel C, 231.
Department of Mass. G. A. R., 294,
Deputy, instructions to, 58.
Derby Academy, 1 91,
Alden, 231.
Franklin, 231,
George, 231.
Loring W., 231,
Thomas, Jr., 231.
Deselit, Louis, 231.
Deshon, Jason L., 231,
Devon (county), England, 97, 158.
 - 331 - 
314                      INDEX.
Dible, Francis, 249.
Thomas, 249.
Dickerman, Rev. Lysander, 112, 113,
12.3.
Sarah Jane, 208.
Dinder (England), 249.
Dinnersfree to selectmen, 42.
Doble, George H., 231.
Dodson, Rev. George, 116.
Doget, Thomas, 255, 263, 266, 271, 276.
laud of, 275.
Doherty, Bernard, 231.
Donahoe, Stephen, 231.
Donavon, Malachi, 231.
Michael, 231.
Donn, Thomas [see Dunn], 283.
Donnelly, Frank, 231.
J. Michael, 231.
Doran, Daniel, 231.
Dorchester, council at, 98, I60.
church at, 161, 162.
Heights, 71.
(town of), 25, 27, 28, 40, 97, 98, 103,
127, 160, 162, 184, 196, 206, 285.
Dorr, Dr. Joseph, sketch of, 201.
Dorset (county of, England), 26,  158,
249.
Dover (town of), 159.
Downey, Thomas, 231.
Drafts for soldiers,  67.
Drake, James, 144.
Rose (Horn, 211.
Thomas. 283.
Dr. William Abram, sketch of, 211.
Duffy, Richard, 231.
Dugland, Allen, 38.
Dunbar, Charles H, 231.
David, 231.
James D,   231.
Warren, 231.
Willard J., 231.
Dunford, John, 263.
Dunn, Rev. Andrew, 122.
Joiin, 231.
Thomas, 270.
Durrell, Bacon & Co., 292.
Dutch settlements, 18.
Duvall, Lewis, 231.
Duxbury(town of), 1G3, 164, 183.
Dwelling-houses not to  be  built
over half a mile from tho meeting-
house, 27.
Dyer, Lieut. Asa, 71, 300.
Benjamin, 44, 300.
Rev. E. Porter, 112.
Jesse, 300.
Joge[)h, 127.
Solonjon, 301.
Stevens, 301.
Thomas, 254, 258, 259, 203, 276, 282,
284.
deed from, 279.
deed to, 279.
land of,  269.
Thomas, recorder, 34.
William H., 231.
Dyer's Mill, 145,  146.
Earl, Daniel C, 231.
Early, Edward, 231.
planters  about Massachusetts Bay,
19, 23
proprietors, with description of their
lands, 254 to 280.
East Boston, 210.
Braintree, 112, 199.
field   (ffield),  254,  257,  258,  259,
260, 261, 262, 267,  269, 270,  271,
272, 273, 274, 276, 277, 279.
India Co., 57.
Kingston, N. H., 195.
New York, 224.
Street, 188.
Tennessee, 222.
Weymouth, 27, 81,89, 107, 114, 116,
117, 122, 123,  133,  1.34,  140,  141,
142,  147,  156, 188, 205, 206, 210,
211, 212, 213.
Weymouth Congregational Church,
114.
Weymouth Iron Co., 14, 81.
Weymouth Savings Bank, 149.
Easterbrook, C. G., 133.
Easter Neck (Eastern), 154, 259, 261,
262, 264, 265, 269. 271.
Eastern Virginia, 218.
Eastham (town of), 166, 167, 179.
Easton (town of), 109, 179.
Eaton, Rev. B. F., 119.
Ecclesfleld (England), 161.
Ecclesiastical court, England, 95.
history, 95.
Eclectic physicians, 211.
Medical School, 211.
 - 332 - 
INDEX.                       315
Edson, Jolin, 140.
Samuel, 183.
Susanuah (Byram, 183.
Educational institutions, 125.
Edward Everett (ship), 291.
Edwards Society, 110.
Egerton manuscripts, 94.
Eighth Battery, 226.
(school) district, 130.
Eldredge, Caleb, 52.
Mr., 133.
Eleventh Eegiment, 87.
(school) district, 130.
Eliot, Rev. John, 161.
Elsworth, Rev. A. A., 113.
Emery, Charles Francis, 176.
Elizabeth (Welch, 175.
Harriet (Peabody, 176
Harriet Peabody, 176.
Joshua, 175.
Rev. Joshua, Jr., 106, 110, 175.
Joshua, 3d, 175.
Margaret, 176.
Emigration, 30.
EmoryHospital, 207.
Endicott, son of Gov., 162.
England, 18, 24, 25, 43, 51, 95, 96,  97,
99,  144, 157, 15!?,  159,  160,  161,
162,  164,  166, 169,171, 181,  182,
183.
Church of, 5, 23.
Court of, 164.
laws of, denied to the people, 42.
war with, 77.
English government, arbitrary meas-
ures of, 55.
masters, 130.
Englishmen, 251, 297.
English possessions, 18.
provinces, 3.
settlements, 2.
(the), 53, 143, 251, 252.
Episcopal service in Boston, 42.
Episcopalian element, 7, 23, 28.
parish (Trinity), 123.
Eshleman, Anne Eliza, 209.
Esquimaux (the), 177.
Essex County, 220.
Street, 190.
Estes, Eli H., 231.
Herbert E., 231.
Samuel, 231.
Europe, 298.
Evans (Rev.), Israel, 104.
Exeter Academy, 206.
N. H., 200.
Expenditures, increase of, 93.
Expresses, us.
Factories, 155, 156.
canning, 156.
fire-works, 155.
furniture, 156.
glue, 155.
hammock, 155.
heels and counters, 156.
leather bleaching, 156.
mitten and glove, 156.
tanning and currying, 155.
Fahey, Edward A., 231.
Fairbanks, George E., 231.
Gerry, 231.
Fairfield (town of), 164.
Pall River (city of), 201.
Falmouth, Me., 195.
(town of), 172.
Faneuil Hall, 57, 216.
Farmer, Charles H., 231.
William H., 231.
Farnsworth, Rev. Charles H., 118.
Farr, Col., 225.
Farren, G. W., 231.
Faulkner, Harrison, 231.
Faxon, Richard, 44.
Fay, Blanche M., 206.
E. Louise, 206.
Florence J., 206.
Frank G., 206.
(Dr.) George Wyman, 140.
sketch of, 205.
George W., 206.
Jane Louise (Mowry, 206.
M. Fanny, 206.
Fayetteville, N. C, 171.
Fearing, Israel J., 232.
William, 140.
Federal republicau, 192.
Federalist, the, 192.
Femalephysicians, 213.
Pennell, James, 232.
John, 232.
Fenno, Samuel, 286.
Ferries, 27.
Ferry (the) (fferry), 264.
 - 333 - 
316                      INDEX.
Fessenden, Moaes, soi.
Fever, Will., 248.
fferry, 264.   [See Ferry.]
fford.  [See Ford.]
ffoster.  [See Foster.]
ffrencli.  [See French.]
ffresh.  [See Fresh.]
ffrie.  [See Fry.]
Fifield, Charles B., 207.
Ebeuezer, 195.
Emily A. (Porter, 206.
George F.,  207.
Dr. George Fordyce, 196.
sketch of, 202.
Hannah Cranch (Bond, 196, 202.
Mary S., 196, 207.
Mary (Sanborn, 195.
(Dr.) Noah, 132, 149, 200, 202, 206.
sketch of,  195.
(Dr.) William C. B., 196.
sketch of, 206.
Fifth Battery, 26.
Regiment, 226.
E. I. volunteers, 205.
Fifty-second Regiment, 226.
Financial corporations, 148.
Fire department, 92.
Insurance  Company,  Weymouth
and Braintree Mutual, 149.
works factory, 155.
First Army Corps, 139.
Brigade, 193, 197, 223.
Church, 102, 105, 168, 170, 175, 176,
177.
Church, legacy to, 107.
Division (military), 193, 197, 223.
Evangelical Methodist Church, 114.
National Bank, South Weymouth,
149.
Regiment, 226.
Fish Company, 152.
glue factory, 155.
Fisheries, 47.
Fishermen (on the coast), 3, 17.
Fitch, Deborah, 193.
Gorham, 193.
Fitchburg, Orthodox Church of, 175.
(town of), 106, 176.
Fitz, Rev. Henry, 122.
Fitzgerald, Dr., 213.
Patrick, 232.
Fleming, Michael, 232.
Flint, Rev. Henry, 162.
Joanna, 162.
Mrs. Margery, 162.
Flynn, John, 232.
Fogarty, William, 232.
Foggand Torrey, 291.
Brotliers, 294.
Force's historical tracts, 19.
Ford (fford), Andrew, 282, 284.
land of,  272.
Charles T., 232.
James B., 232.
(fford), John, 38, 248.
Joseph, 52.
Joseph B., 232.
Michael, 232.
Priscilla, 195.
Fore River, 13,  14, 15,  19,  26, 76, 77,
89, 144, 147, 152, 154.
Forrest, Dr., 213.
Michael A., 232.
Forsaith, Eva M., 209.
Dr. Francis Flint, 180.
sketch of, 208.
Frank L., 209.
Sarah Jane (Dickermau, 208.
Walter G.,  209.
Fort Sumter, attack upon, 292.
Warren, 216.
Forty-fifth Regiment, 226.
Forty-secondOhio volunteers,  212.
Regiment, 85, 215, 226.
sketch of,  223 to 225.
organized, 223.
mustered, 223.
left camp, 224.
sailed from New York, 224.
at NewOrleans and Galveston,
224.
FOSS, Benjamin P., 232.
Foster (ffoster), John, land of, 272.
Stephen S., 174.
(ffoster), Thomas, 261,271.
land of, 261.
Fourth Heavy Artillery, 87, 215.
sketch of, 226.
Regiment, 226.
(school) district, 130.
Fox, Owen, 232.
Foye, Samuel S., 232.
Fraher, Patrick, 232.
France, 51.
 - 334 - 
INDEX,                      317
Prancistown Academy, 208.
Franklin County, 176.
Guards, 138.
Frary, Rev. Lucien H., 113.
Fraser, Archie M., 211.
Dr. John Chisholm, sketch of, 211.
Mary Ann (Boyle, 211.
Mary G.,211.
Frederick, Md., 217.
Fredericksburg, Va., 217,218, 221.
French, Abigail (Beale, 188.
alliance with the Indians, 51.
and Indian War, 11, 51.
Asa, 301.
Bela, 188.
Betty, 188.
Cecilia, 188.
Dr. Daniel, sketch of,  188;
Elizabeth (Hobart, 188.
George W., 232.
Isaac, 301.
(ffrench), Jacob, 261,  262, 264, 276,
282, 283.
Joel, 188.
Rev. Jonathan, 188.
Judeth, 247.
Lydia, 188.
Mary, 188.
Mary (Lane, 188.
neutrals (neuter), 53.
Ruth (Stowell, 188.
Samuel, 186, 188.
Samuel L., 232.
(ffrench), Stephen (Steephen), Capt.
161, 188, 256, 257, 258, 270, 275,
276, 277, 279, 280, 282,283.
land of, 276.
Susan Jane, 212.
the, 52, 69.
War, 288.
Zethan, 188.
Fresh Brooke, 268, 279.
(ffresh)  Marsh, 255, 258, 263, 266,
268, 274, 277, 278, 279.
(ffresh) Pond, 27, 252, 278, 280.
River, 26, 79.
Front Street,  124.
Frost, Rev. John, 112.
Fry(ffrie), Elizabeth, 275.
(ffrie), Elizabeth and Mary, land of,
275.
George, 283, 284.
Fry rffriej, Mary, 275.
(ffrie), William, 254, 255, 275, 280,
282.
Fry's, William, children, 283.
Fugitive Slave Law, 82.
resolutions upon it passed, 82.
resolutions expunged, 82.
resolutions restored, 82.
Fuller, Catherine P. (Barrett, 207.
Dr. Lemuel, sketch of, 207.
(Rev.) Mr., 109.
Dr. Samuel, 181.
Fullerton, Rev. Noah, 121.
Furness, John, 232.
Furniture factory, 156.
Ffusell, John, 260, 273.
land of, 262.
Galeta, Cal., 203.
Gallop's Island, 293.
Gait, John, 128.
Galveston (Tex.), 224, 225.
Gamage, Theodore A., 232.
Gammons, Frederick, 232.
Gannett, Charles E., 232.
Joseph H., 232.
Gardner, Rev. Calvin, 118.
Edward B., 232.
George L., 232.
Henry, 59.
Henry A., 232.
Jacob, Jr., 232.
Jason, 232.
Capt. Lemuel, 286.
(town of), 201.
Garey (Capt.),  Andrew J.,  87,  140,
226, 232.
Garvin, Edward, 232.
Gay, John O., 232.
Samuel E., 232.
Gazette, Boston, 169.
Weymouth, 90, 133.
General Assembly, 297.
Continental Congress, 59.
Court, 15, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 34, 40,
41, 43, 44, 46, 47, 49, 51,  58,  63,
64, 67, 68, 73, 74, 77, 79, 129, 160,
162, 165,  169, 190, 252, 253, 285,
288, 290, 296.
Court, deputies to be sent to, 26.
Court permits  the Hull  Company
to settle at Weymouth, 25.
 - 335 - 
318                      INDEX.
General Court records, 15, 26, 27, 29,
30, 40, 41, 44, 47.
Court,  representatives  to,  26,  51,
56.
history of the town, 17.
Genesee County, 111.,  292.
Geography of the town, 13.
Geology of tlie town, 16.
Germantown (village of
J,
167.
Gerrold, Alexander M., 232.
Gettysburg fbattle of
J),
218, 293.
Gibbens, Alice, 202.
Dr. Daniel L., 202.
sketch of, 202.
Eliza P. (Webb, 202.
Margaret, 202.
Mary, 202.
Gibbs, Benjamin S., 232.
I      Elisha J., 232.
Gilbert, Jane (Copeland, 205.
Dr. John Henry, sketch of, 205.
John H., 205.
Gilding establishment, 156.
Gilham, Benjamin (Mr.), 282, 284.
Gill, John, 263, 265, 278.
(town of), 176.
Gillinghan, James E., 232.
John, 232.
Gilmanton, N. H., 212.
Gloster, Patrick, 232.
Gloucester (town of),  113, 192, 216.
Glouer.  [See Glover.]
Glove factory, 156.
Glover (Glouer), John (Mr.), 254, 256,
261, 267, 272, 275.
land of, 277.
Goddard, Rev. D. T., 119.
Golden Gate, Cal., the, 291.
Goldthwait, Charles, 232.
GoodTemplars, 142.
Goodell, Mr.,  132.
Goodman, Martin, 190.
Goodwin, John, 213.
John M., 232.
Samuel D., 232.
Mrs. Dr. Tirzah E., 213.
William A., 232.
William H., 232.
Goold, Gardner, 301.
Jacob, 59
Thomas, 301.
Gordon, Jane Binney (Jones, 200.
Gordon, Joseph, 2.32.
Solomon J., 200.
(Dr.) Timothy, 140.
sketch of, 200.
Timothy, Jr., 200.
Gorges Colony, 5, 6.
Company, 26, 95, 97, 157.
Sir Fernando, 5, 22.
Gorges, Capt. Robert, 5, 22, 23.
^
settlement, 22.
settlers, 28.
Gorman, John, 232.
Gove, Andrew S., 232.
Governorand Council, petitions to, 37,
38, 39, 44, 45.
Bradford, 19, 24.
Bradstreet, 44.
of Plymouth, 24.
Winthrop, 24.
Gould, 254.
Grafton (town of), 205.
Grain business, 153, 154.
Grand Army of the Republic, sketch
of,  139.
Lincoln Post, No. 40, 139.
Post No. 15, 139.
Reynolds Post, No. 58, 139.
Grand Lodge (Masonic), 140.
Grane, William, 249.
Grape Mand (Hand), 14, 15, 29, 255.
ceded to Weymouth, 15, 29.
Grant (General), 218, 293.
Street, 188.
Thomas, 232.
Graves, George D., 232.
Joshua, 233.
Gray, Harryson, 59.
James B., 81.
Great Britain, king of, 297.
war with, 77.
hill, 14.
(Greate)  lots  (lotes,  lotts,  lottes),
257, 258, 262, 263, 270, 271, 275,
276, 277, 279, 280, 281.
Plantation lotts, 280.
(Greate) Pond, 13,  14,  91,  92,  143,
145, 151,  152,  153, 257, 258, 260,
262, 268, 270, 275, 278, 281.
(Greate)  Swamp  (Swampe),  255,
260, 274.
Greeley, Dr., dentist, 184.
Greely, Charles R., 210.
 - 336 - 
INDEX.                       319
Greely, Llewellyn, 210.
Mary L., 210.
Sarah Eobie (Peirce, 210.
Dr. Thomas Eeubeu, sketch of, 209.
AVilliam H., 210.
Green, Sarah, 187.
Street, 188, 195.
Greene, Richard, 20, 181.
Greenleaf, Joseph, 168.
Gregg, Samuel or Thomas, 132.
Gridley, Col. Richard, 286.
Groveton (battle of), 217.
Gunning, Amos J., 233.
Guppie, John, 282, 283.
Guptil, Dr., 213.
Gurney, David, 301.
(Gnruy,  Gurnie),  John,  258,  270,
278, 282.
Jonathan, 301.
Rev. Leander P., 121.
Zachariah, 38.
Gustin, George A., 233.
Hackett, Patrick, 233.
Hadley (town of), 177.
HahnemannMedical College, 212.
Haley, John, 233.
Halifax, N. S., 213.
Hall, A. B., 173.
[See Hull.]
Edward W., 233.
Hallett, Andrew, 250.
Halliday, Rev. Joseph C, 117.
Halligan, Edward, 233.
Halloran, James, 233.
Hamilton, Lucius M., 233.
()tis R,, 233.
Hammock, Bay State, Companj', 155.
HancockAcademy, 208, 209.
Hanley, Michael, 2d, 233.
Hanover (town of), 199, 200.
Hanson (town of), 49.
Harding, Ellsworth M,, 233.
(flardiuge),  Johil,  255,  258,  263,
264,  266,  268, 27.5,  276, 279, 282,
283.
land of,  163,
Rev. Willard M., 114.
Harlow, Robert, 282.
Harmonial Hall, 120.
Harper's Ferry (Va.), 217.
Harrington, Isaac N., 233.
Harrington, Minot J., 233.
William, 233.
Harris,  Walter, 267,  273,  276,  277,
281.
land of,  255.
Harris's Rainge,  25.5,  256,  260, 262,
268, 271, 277,278.1
Harrisburg (Pa.), 217, 222.
Hart (Harte), Edmund (Edmond, Ed-
ward), 258, 267, 270, 272, 273, 276,
277, 280, 283.
land of, 261.
Edward (Edmund), 280.
John W., 233.
Michael, 233.
Harvard (College,  University)  [see
Cambridge],  99,   100,  101,  102,
103,  104,  105,  109, 128, 162, 163,
164,  165,  166, 168,  170, 171, 172,
178,  190,  195, 197, 202, 207, 286.
Medical School, 197,  201, 202, 203,
204, 205, 206, 207, 209, 210, 211.
(town of), 207.
Harvey, Widow Ruth, 49.
Hastings, Capt. Charles W., 139, 233.
Hatfield t town of), 166.
Hathaway,  Elizabeth  (Stansbury,
213.
Florence, 213.
Harry S., 213.
Maria L., 213.
Dr. William Fales, sketch of, 212.
William Tales, Jr., 213.
Haverhill ('town of), 102, 1G9, 220.
Hawes, Bradford, 117,233.
Cliarles, 233.
Rev. E. H., 120.
Hayard, William, 262, 269.
Hayden, Alliert C, 233.
George F., 233.
Hayes, Rev. S. H., ill,  114.
Haylett, Rev. Henry P., 118.
Hayward, Charles W., 233.
(Mrs.) Elizabeth, 187.
Isaiah T., 233.
Dr. James, sketch of, 186.
James, Jr.,  186.
Lydia, 187.
Nehemiah, 186.
Sarah (Green, 187.
Hazard (historian), 24.
Heald Lysander, 233.
 - 337 - 
320                      INDEX.
Healy, Cornelius,  233.
George R.,  233.
Henry, 233.
James II., 233.
William, 233.
Heard, Capt. John, 159.
Heel and counter factory,  156.
Helena (Ark.j, 209.
Hemphill, Rev. Mr., 119.
Hennessey, John, 233.
Hennigan, Rev. Father, 123.
Herringe, Broge (herring brook), 47.
Herrings, 47.
Hersey, Daniel D., 233.
William S., 233.
Wilson D., 233.
Hesse, Augustus, 233.
Hewes (Hues,  Hughes),  William,
260.
Hewitt, Rev. Elmer E., 120.
Henry, 233.
Hibernians, the, 142.
Hickes, John, 276.
Hickey, Kenneth, 233.
Higgins, Lucius, 233.
Michael, 233.
Highschool, 131.
(school) committee, 130.
Highland Cemetery, 185, 199.
Highway (Highways,  Hiways,  Hi-
waie, Hiewaie, Highwaie^, 32, 48,
54, 254, 255, 256, 257, 258,  259,
260, 261, 262, 263, 264, 265, 266,
267, 268, 269, 270, 271,272, 273,
274, 275, 276, 277, 278, 279.
Hill, Boyle D., 233.
Great, 14.
King Oak.  [See King Oak.]
Smith's, 14.
Hillard, Widow, 32.
Hilton Head, S. C, 224.
Hingham and  Quincy Bridge  and
Turnpike Corporation, 147.
(Hingam) bounds, 276, 277.
land, 273.
(Hingam) line, 257, 267, 276, 281.
Plain, 144.
(town of),  13,  14, 16, 26, 27, 34, 38,
45,49, 79,97, 112,  141, 146, 147,
158, 159, 170,  186,  188,  189, 190,
191, 195, 200, 289.
troops, 44, 45.
Historical records, 8.
Society,  Weymouth.   [See  Wey-
mouth.]
Hoar, Rev. Leonard, 162.
Hobart, Elizabeth, 188.
Otis M., 233.
Tliomas, 151, 152.
Thomas P., 233.
Hobby, Col., sent to draft men from
Weymouth and Hingham,45.
Hobill, Ralph, 233.
Hoble, Jolm, 250.
Hocking, William H., 233.
Hockley (Hocklie), 257, 274, 275.
Hodgdon, Dr. Joseph Porter, sketch
of, 211.
Holbrook  (Holbrooke,  Hollbrook,
Houlbrook).
A. A., 141.
Abiezer, 301.
Anne, 249.
Elizabeth, 249.
Elizabeth (Shaw, 194.
George, 233.
George A., 233.
Hannah, 194.
Hannah (Patterson, 171,
Harriet, 171.
Jane, 249.
Jeremiah, 233.
John (Lieut.,  Capt.), 34,  100,  126,
171, 249, 253, 268, 270, 279, 282,
287.
John Q A., 233.
Lydia, 287.
Nathaniel, 301.
Richard M,  234.
Ruth, 185.
Samuel, 194, 301.
Sarah ( Hunt, 287.
Silas, 301.
Silvanus, 301.
Thomas, 249,  252,  255,  258,  260,
262, 263, 266, 268, 269, 275, 276,
281, 282,284.
Thomas, Jr., 249.
(town of), 13, 200.
William, 234, 283, 284, 301.
William, Jr., 52, 53.
William A., 234.
William 0., 234.
Holland, is.
 - 338 - 
INDEX.                       321
HoUard (Holard),  Angell  (Aingel,
Aingle), 249,  261,  262, 265, 266,
269, 270, 274, 275, 277, 278.
land of,  257.
Katheryn, 249.
Hollester (Holester), John, 260, 262,
268, 278.
land of, 256.
Hollis, Adoniran B., 234.
Asaph L., 234.
Ebenezer, 301.
George, 234.
Henry S., 234.
Isaac N., Jr., 234.
John, 40.
John F., 234.
John O., 234.
John Q., 234.
Leroy S., 234.
Street Church, Boston, 112.
Holliston Academy, 203.
Holmes, Jesse H., 234.
Lyman T., 234.
Marcus M., 234.
Homoeopathicphysicians, 212.
Hooker (Gen.), 218.
Hope, John, 234.
Hopkinton (town of), I96.
Horn, Rose, 211.
Horse company, 41.
troop, 137, 138.
House [see Howse], built of logs, 27.
Houghton, Edzel, 234.
Oliver, 234.
Houlbrooke[see Holbrook], Thomas,
263.
Howard, Henry, 234.
Howeand French, 145, 155.
Dr.  Appleton, 195,  196,  197, 200,
207.
sketch of, 196.
Appleton L., 198.
Eliza (Loud, 198.
Harriet (Loud, 198.
Hattie, 198.
Rev. Nathaniel, 196.
(Mrs.) Olive, 196.
Howland, Mr., 281.
William, 256.
"Howse, my," 260.
Hubbard, Samuel, 79.
Hon. Samuel, 106, 173.
HuckleburyPond, 278.
Hudson, N. H., 209.
(River), 18.
Hues (Hewes, Hughes), William, 260,
268.
Hughes (Hewes,  Hues),  Goodman,
259.
(Hewes, Hues),  William, 271, 272,
276, 278.
Hull (Hall), Agnes (Agnis), 159, 247.
Benjamin, 159.
Company, the,  7,  11,  25,  28,  247,
280, 281.
Dorothy, 159, 247.
(Hall), Elizabeth, 159, 247.
Griselda (Grizzell, Gressell),159, 247,
(Hall), Joanna, 159, 247.
(Hall), Joseph (Rev. Mr.), 7, 11, 25.
26,  28,  29,  96,  97,  98,  158,  159,
160, 161, 182,  194, 247, 260, 264,
267, 268, 272, 278, 280, 286.
sketch of, 158.
Naomi, 159.
Reuben, 159.
Robert B., 159.
Ruth, 159.
soldiers sent to, 69.
(Hall), Temperance, 159, 247.
(town of), 49, 164.
(Hall), Tristram, 159, 247.
Humphrey, Abigail, 286.
Ann, 285.
Ann (Torrey, 285.
Asa, 289.
Clinton C, 234.
Deborah, 286, 289.
Deborah (Tirrell, 288.
Col. Ebenezer, 289.
Elizabeth, 286.
James (Hon. Major), 53, 56, 57, 64,
66, 67, 71.
instructions to, 296.
sketch of, 285.
James, Esq. (3d), 78, 79, 129.
sketch of, 288.
James (Jr.), 285.
James (Senior), 285,
Jonas, 38, 301.
(Dea )  Jonas, 283, 285.
Josiah, 285.
Lemuel, Esq., 289.
Levi, 289.
 - 339 - 
322                      INDEX.
Humphrey, Lucy, 285, 289.
Lydia, 289.
Margaret, 285.
Margaret (Torrey, 285.
Capt. Nathauiel, 286.
Samuel, 288.
Sarah, 286.
Sarah (Badlam, 288.
Silence (Whitmarsh, 286.
Susan, 289.
Susanna, 286.
William, 141.
William & Co., 156.
Hunt, Benoni, 301.
Clarence A., 156.
Ebenezer, 44.
Ebenezer, Jr., 301.
Edmund S., 155.
Eliphaz, 301.
Ephraim (Capt., Col.), 44, 127, 271,
283.
Enoch (Enock), 269, 277.
land of, 275.
Henry N., 234.
James L., 234.
Joanna, 187.
John, 301.
John Q., 234.
Melzar, 301.
Micah, 44.
N. F. T., 140.
Eobert, 301.
Samuel, 127,301.
Samuel W., 234.
Sarah, 283, 284.
Webster W., 234.
William, 234.
Zachariah, 301.
Huntington (town of), 205.
Hunt's Hill, 152, 155.
Huntstown, 44.
Huste, Robert, 250.
Hutchinson, Mrs. (Anna), 28, 160.
Ice companies, 153.
company, South Boston, 1 53.
Illinois, 222.
Immaculate Conception, parish  of,
sketch of, 123.
Improvement Society, Boston, 206.
Independence, Declaration of, 62.
to be read in the churches, 62.
Independent Order of Odd Fellows,
sketcli of, 141.
Indiana, 222.
Indian deed of the town, 28, 251.
copy of, 251.
neighbors, 21.
settlements, 3.
title to the town, 27.
trails and camps, 3.
Indians, 3,  17,  20, 21, 27, 29, 30,  36,
37, 38, 252, 253.
land, 272.
Pigwacket, 50.
Instructions to representatives, 63,
296.
Introduction, 1.
authorityforpublishingthissketch,l.
reason therefor, 1, 2.
character of the work, 2.
difficulties  in the way of  prepara-
tion, 3.
scarcity of records and material, 3.
jealousy and ill-will  of neighboring
settlements, 3.
general plan, 4 to 12.
Ipswich (town of), 183.
Ireland, I82.
contributions from, 37.
Iron Company, Weymouth, 144.
sketch of, 152.
Iron manufactures, 151, 152.
Iron works district (Braintree), 198.
Island, Grape, 14,  29.
Round, 15, 29.
Sheep, 15.
Isle of  Shoals, 158,  159.
Italy, 204.
Jackson, Dr., 202.
Miss, 222.
Nelson S., 234.
Jacobs, Daniel, 234.
James (King), 43.
(ship), 162,  183.
Jamestown, Va., 18.
Jaquith, Reuben, 234.
Jefferay (Jeffereyes), Will, 252, 254.
Jefferey (Jefferie), Mr., 265, 270, 271,
276, 278.
Jeffers, John, 301.
Jefferson (Medical  College),  Thila-
delphia, 209.
 - 340 - 
INDEX.                       323
Jeffery (Jefferie),  Mr.  Robert, 259,
260, 267, 281.
Jener (Jeneres), Mr. 257,  260,  265,
267, 268,271,272, 275, 276, 277,
278.
Mr., Senior, 271, 280.
Mr., Juuior, 2S0.
Jenks, Thomas, 61.
Jenner, Rev.  Thomas (Mr.),  7,  28,
97, 98, 160, 161, 182.
Jerome, Rev. John A., 124.
Jesope, Joyner, 247.
Walter, 247.
Joanes, Richard, 249.
Joint stock company (fish), 152.
Joliet, 111., 200.
Jones &Co., 133.
Charles G., 234.
Granville, R., 234.
James G., 234.
Jane Binney, 200.
Solomon, 200.
Josephs, Uriel, 234.
Joy, Lieut. David, 71, 301.
Eben, 301.
George F., 234.
H. H., 119.
Isaac, 52.
Jacob, Jr., 301.
Nehemiah, 52.
Noah, 301.
Walter H., 234.
Joyce, E. L., 234.
Judson, Rev. Mr., 104.
Jurymen, first  chosen, 48.
Justices' court of Boston, to approve
laws and rules of Weymouth, 45.
KansasCity, Mo., 175, 176.
Keating, Thomas H., 234.
Keayne, Capt. Robert, 161.
Keen, E. Porter, 155.
Keep, William J., 234.
Keily, Timothy, 234.
Keith, WidowAbigail, 185.
Kelley, Thomas, 234.
Kendrigan, Edward, 234.
Kennebunk, Me., 287,
Kenney, Bernard, 234.
Kennison, Benjamin R., 234.
Kensington, N. H., 211.
Kent, county of, England, 182.
Kentucky, 222.
campaign, 222.
Kerr, Owen, 234.
Kilburn, Charles E., 234.
Killam, Rev. R. L., 120.
Kimball, Selden, 234.
King(the), 296.
(kinge).   [See King.]
Dorothy, 249.
Hanna, 249.
Hezekiah, 38.
John, 127, 25,1, 266, 273, 281.
John, planter, 283.
John, seaman, 282, 283.
Katheryn, 249.
Mary, 249.
Oak (Oke)  Hill,  14,  27,  90, 212,
255,  258, 2.')9, 262, 263, 264,  265,
266, 269, 272, 273, 274, 276, 277.
Philip's War, 30, 36.
Will, 249.
William, 248.
Kingman, Anne, 248.
Edward, 38,  248, 282, 283.
Henry  (Mr.),  248,  25.5,  259,  260,
267, 274, 276, 278, 280, 282,  283.
land of, 268.
Joane, 248.
(Mrs.) Joane, 248.
(Kinghman), John, 248, 282.
Nathan, 234.
Lieut. Samuel, 62, 71, 301.
Thomas, 248.
Kingsbridge, England, 169.
Kingsbury, P. A., Esq., 149.
King's evil,  193.
Kinham, Alice, 249.
Kirby, Patrick, 235.
Kitchin, Jno., 248.
Kittredge, Paul C, 335.
Knights, Edward, 235.
of Honor, sketch of,  141.
Cooper Lodge, 142.
Pilgrim Lodge, 141.
of Pythias, sketch of, 141.
Delphi Lodge, 141.
Templars, 140.
Labaree, Rev. Dr., ill,
Labrador, 177.
La Forrest, Frederick, 235.
Lajoye, Joseph, 235.
 - 341 - 
324                     INDEX.
Lake George, 51 ,   52, 286.
Lamson, Daniel, 235.
Land, George, 249.
grants, 31.
grantees,
list of 1635, 280.
list of 1651, 281, 282.
list of 1663, 282, 283, 284.
Sarah, 249.
Lane, Mary, 188.
Parker E., 235.
S. Gushing, 235,
Thomas, sickness of, 25.
Wehster, 235.
Lantz, David J., 235.
Larmay,Joseph, 235.
Leander, 235.
Lary, William, 235.
Lathrop, Hiram G., 235.
Washington I., 235.
Latimer, George, 81.
Latin and Greek masters, 130.
School, Boston, 172.
Laurel Hill (battle of), 219.
Lawsof the General Court, to be read
by the town clerk, 74.
Leach, Adnah G., 235.
Charles, 286.
Ezra, 149.
Ezra W., 235.
Giles, 283, 284.
Mary (Byram, 183.
Samuel, 183.
Learned, Anna, M., 201.
Dr. Ebenezer Turell, sketch of, 201.
Eanny H., 201.
Helen M.,201.
Josephine H. D., 201.
Lydia K., 201.
Mary Matilda (White, 201.
Mary W., 201.
Sarah M., 201.
Susan T., 201.
William T., 201.
Leavett, Rev. Joshua, 110.
Lebanon, Conn., 193.
Lee (Gen.), 217, 218, 221.
surrender of, 223.
Legacy, to Eirst Church and Parish,
107.
Leicester Academy, 206.
Lemar, Joseph, 235.
Lenthal  (Lenthall),   Eev.  Robert
(Mr.), 7, 28, 97, 98, 160, 161, 182,
262, 278.
Leonard, A. H., I4i, 235.
Charles H., 235.
Charles M., 235.
John, 235.
Letter from the  Boston  Committee,
57.
Levet, Christopher, Esq., 24.
Levett's Voyage, 19.
Lewis, Bethiah, 190.
Edward, 235.
Erank W., 142, 199.
George F., 235.
J. W. & Co., 1.
Jonathan, 301.
Rev. Wales, 110.
William A., 235.
William H., 235.
Leyden (Holland), 18.
Lhoyd, Rev. W. F,, 124.
Libraries, social, 134.
Library, Mutual Association, 134.
Tufts, sketch of, 135.
Light Horse Troop, 138.
Infantry Company, 138.
Lincoln, CoL Benjamin, 51, 52.
Daniel, 235.
Daniel W., 235.
George, 189.
Israel, 301.
John, 52.
Post, G. A. R., No. 40, 139.
President, 83, 216, 220, 292.
Samuel, 235.
Solomon, 189.
Lindsley, Frederick, 235.
Lines, Patrick, 235.
Linnell, Samuel D., 235.
Linton, Augustus A., 235.
E. Frank, 235.
Lippincott, J. B. & Co., 1.
Little, Capt. Luther, 287.
Pond, 275.
Rock (Ark.), 209.
Swampe, 256.
Littlefield, Caleb, not being an in
habitant,  warned to leave town
41.
Lemuel P., 235.
Livermore, Rev. D. P., 119.
 - 342 - 
INDEX.                       325
Livingston, George H., 235.
Lloyd, Charles S., 235,
Localjealousy, 89.
matters, 45, 73.
Log-houses, 27,
Londergan, Thomas, 235.
London, Berge, 259.
(England), 3,  19,  20,  57,  162,
194, 206, 250.
Hospital, 206.
Long, William, 235.
Longe, Richard, 273, 279.
Loring, Benjamin J., 235.
Charles H., 235.
Loubey, Edward, 235.
Loud, Mrs. Anna, 198.
Betsey Dyer, 295.
Byron W., 235.
David, 301.
Eliot, Jr., 301.
Eliphalet,77, 153, 198, 301.
Eliza, 198,
Esau, 301,
Erancis M., 235.
Hannah W. (Dyer, 295.
Harriet, 198.
J. & Co., 145,
Jacob, 301,
John A., 235,
John E., 235.
Joseph, 107, 132, 198.
Josiah E., 235,
Livingston W., 235.
Peleg, 301.
Quincy, 295.
Samuel R., 236.
Thankful (Bates, 198.
Thomas B., 236.
William, 301.
William E., 236.
Loud's Mill, sketch of, 145.
Loudon, N. H., 212.
Louell.  [See LovelL]
Louisburg (C. B.), 52.
Louisiana, 222.
Louney, Daniel E., 236.
Lovell, Anne, 249.
Col. B. S., 139, 236.
David, 286,
Elizabeth, 249.
EUyn, 249.
Frank G., 236.
George, 236.
Lovell, Hannah, 287.
Hannah (Pittey, 194, 287.
Jacob R., 236.
James, 249, 283, 287,
Dr. James, 75, 2^7.
sketch of, 194.
James A., 236.
John, 38, 40, 249, 282, 283.
Joseph, 128.
Josiah, 301,
Lydia, 287.
Lydia (Holbrook, 287,
Mary, 287.
Mary (Torrey, 286.
Priscilla (Ford-Winch, 195, 287.
(Louell), Robert, 194, 249, 255, 260.
262, 263,  265, 268, 269, 275, 276,
279, 280, 286.
land of, 276.
Samuel, 301.
Sarah, 184, 287.
Silas, 52.
(Gen'l) Soloman, 51, 52, 56, 57, 59,
61, 63, 70, 71, 194, 195, 286, 301.
sketch of, 286.
William L., 236,
Zacheus, 249.
Lovell's Corner, 89, 117,
Lovill, James, and his mother, 283,
Lowell (city of), 80.
Ludden (Luddon, Ludin), James, 252
253, 259, 262, 265, 266, 274,  279,'
281, 282, 283.
land of, 271.
Luddon, John, 39
Luke the evangelist, 181.
Lumber traffic, 153, 154.
Lunenburg (town of), 204.
Lush, Henry, 220.
Lynch, Patrick, 236.
Rev. Father, 122.
Lynn (city of), 210.
Lynnfield (town of), 220,
Lyon, George P., 220, 236.
Maoauley, Matthew, 236,
Magazine, to be built, 78,
Magruder (Gen.), 224.
Mahan, Jerry, 236.
Main Street, 147, 179, 184.
Maine, 30, 182, 195.
General Hospital, 210.
ports of, 153,
 - 343 - 
326                      INDEX.
Makepeace, Horace M., 236.
Malcom, Miss E. S, 213.
Manhattan Island, 18.
Mangon, Charles, 236.
Mann, GeorRe H., 236.
Manufactures, 150.
boot and shoe, 150.
iron, 151.
discouraged, 79.
Manufacturing companies, 79,  150.
Manuscripts, want of, 8.
Marden, Rev. George N., 114.
Lewis C., 236.
Newell, 236.
Marlborough (town of^, 164, 207.
Marlow, Peter, 236.
Marsh, Charles N., 140.
Kiver, 145.
Marshfleld (town of), 287.
Martin, Edwin, 236.
(Martyn), Jane, 249.
(Martyn), Robert, 249, 258, 259, 261,
262, 266, 269, 270, 274, 278, 279,
281.
land of, 279.
Maryland,217.
campaign, 221.
Mason, Adoniram J., 236.
Masonic associations, sketches of.
Orphans' Hope Lodge, 139.
Delta Lodge, 140.
South Shore Commandery, 140.
Pentalpa Royal Arcli Chapter, 140.
controversy, 172.
Massachusetts, 2,  80, 90,  106, 172,
186, 198, 215, 218, 294.
Bay, 14, 22, 36, 37, 51.
Bay Colony, 6,  25, 36.
Colony, 185.
Department, G. A. R., 139.
Historical Society, 10, 19.
Historical Society Collections,  21,
22, 25, 157.
legislation, 214.
militia, 196,  197.
volunteers,  83,  85,  205,  216,  219,
220, 223, 226, 289, 292, 293.
Mather, Cotton, ISl, 183, 184.
Increase, sent to P^ngland, 43.
Mattapan (village of), 182.
Mattapoisett (town of), 203.
Mattoke, David, 263.
May, John D., 236.
Maynard, George F.,  236.
McAllister, Samuel A., 236.
McArdle, Patrick A., 236.
McAuliffe, Dennis, 236.
McCarthy, John, 236.
McCauley, Dennis, 236,
McClellan (Gen.), 217, 221.
McCue, Patrick, 236.
McDavitt, William, 236.
McParlane, Robert, 177.
Elizabeth S.  (Pendleton, 177.
McGill, John, 236.
Stephen, 236.
McGrath, Michael, 236.
McGuire, James, 236.
Patrick, 236.
Thomas, 236.
McKenzie, Daniel B.,, 236.
McKinstry, Dr. Nathan, 195.
McLean, Rev. James, 114.
McMakens, John, 236.
MeMorrow, Charles J.,  236.
Meade (Gen.), 218.
Medford(town of), 190, 205.
Medical   Association,    ScbuylkiU
County, Pa.,  209.
College, Berkshire, 203.
College, Bellevue Hospital, 211.
College, Hahnemann, Philadelphia,
Pa., 212.
College, Vermont, 207.
Department,  Dartmouth  College,
201.
early history, 180.
School, Bowdoin College, 210, 211,
School, Eclectic, Worcester, 211.
School, Harvard, 197, 201, 202,203,
205, 206, 207, 209, 210, 211.
School, Portland, 210.
Society,  Massachusetts, 191,   196,
198,  199, 201, 202, 204, 205, 206,
208, 209, 210, 211.
Society, Norfolk District, 198, 206.
Society, Pennsylvania State, 209.
Meeting-house, 27, 34, 5i, 79, 96, 99
100, 165, 259.
built, 100, 105.
burnt, 51.
Mellen, Rev. Charles, 119.
Mellis,William, 38.
Melton, Joseph, 44.
 - 344 - 
INDEX.                       327
Memorial day, 90,
Merchant,William F., 236.
Merritt, Amos, 194.
Nancy (Torrey, 194.
Susan (Torrey, 194.
Merry Mount, 20, 25.
Methodist Church, East Weymouth,
107.
Episcopal Church, East Weymouth,
sketch of,  114, 116.
Episcopal  Church, Lovell's Corner,
sketch of, 117.
First Evangelical Church, 114.
Methuen,  First    Congregational
Church of, 173.
Mexican Gulf, 3.
War, 198.
Middle Street, 82, 123.
Middleborough (town of), 122.
Middlesex County, 186.
Middleton (town of), 113.
Middletown, Conn., 203.
Midhope (England), 161.
Milford (town of), 113, 122, 203.
Military company, 44, 138.
Eastern District, 70.
organizations, 137.
records, 84.
Militiaenrolled, 61, 137.
Mill blade, 144.
Brook, 266.
CoTe, 144.
Creeke, 271.
field  (ffield), 263, 264, 265, 267, 273,
275, 276, 278.
foote path, 273.
furlonge, 256.
ground, 265.
lot, 259, 263.
path, 264, 271.
Eiver, (riuer)  14, 143, 265, 275, 276,
278,279.
street to, 272.
the, 259, 265, 267,271, 276, 278.
Millbury (town of), 208.
Millway (waie, weigh), 257, 264, 271,
276.
Mills, sketches of.
Colson's, 145.
Dyer's, 145.
Loud's, 145.
Nash's grist, 144.
Mills, sketches of, Reed's, 145.
Sayles, 145.
Tide,  144.
.            Tirrell's, 144.
Vinson's, 145.
Waltham-Richards-Bates, 143, 144.
erected, 27.
Miller, Alonzo E., 236.
Millerick, Rev. Father, 123.
Milton (town of), 105, 171,207.
Ministers, rates,  100,  102,  104,  105,
106, 107.
sketches of,
First Church, 157.
Second Church, 177.
Ministry, vote defining, 54.
Minnesota volunteers, 209.
Minutemen, 60.
Mississippi (River), 222,225.
(State), 222,
Mitchell, George W., 236.
William, 236.
Mitten factory, 156.
Monatiquot (River), 19.
Moneyborrowed to pay soldiers, 62,
66.
Monopoly, measures to prevent, 62.
Monotticut (River), 258.
MonsonAcademy, 291.
Monument,the Soldiers', 87, 88, 90.
Moore, Martin F.,236.
Moran, James F., 236.
William H., 237.
Morgan, Thomas T., 237.
Moriss, Jane, 282.
Morrell, Charles A., 237.
Charles G., 237.
Rev. William, 23,  24,  95,  96,  157,
182.
Morrison, James, 237.
Morton, Isaac, 301.
Isaac, Jr., 301.
Micah, 301.
Thomas, 20, 25,
his arrest, 25.
Morton's New England  Memorial,
38.
New English Canaan, 19, 25.
Mother country, 296, 297.
Moulton, Harrison, 237.
Mount Wollaston, 25, 26,
Mowry,Jane Louise, 206.
 - 345 - 
328                      INDEX.
Munroe, Alfred C, 237.
Murphy, Eugene, 237.
Jeremiah, 237.
Martin, 237.
Rev. Father, 123.
Terence, 237.
Timothy, 237.
William H., 237.
MutualLibrary Association, 134.
Nahauton (Nahawton) (Sachem), 28,
251, 252.
Naish(Nash), James, 263, 264, 269.
land of, 276.
Nantasket, 1 7.
Nantucket(town of), 193.
Narragansett fight, 163.
Nash, Aaron P., Jr.,  237.
Alexander, 301.
Benjamin, 52, 53.
Caleb, 301.
Elbridge, 237.
Elisha, 301.
Ezra, 301.
Franklin A., 237.
Henry A., Esq., 200.
(Lieut.) Jacob, 40, 44.
James (Naish),  52,  144,  281, 282,
284.
Job, 301.
Joseph, Jr., 301.
Moses, 301.
Capt. Thomas, 65, 70,  301.
Timothy, 301.
William, 282.
William C, 237.
Zadoc, 801.
Nash's grist-mill, 144.
Nashua, N. H., 209.
Nateaunt  (Nateaunte,   Natahant)^
(Sachem), 28, 251, 252.
Natick (town of), 203.
Necessaries, prices fixed, 62.
Neck Street, 194.
the, 256, 264.
NewBedford (city of), 147.
Methodist  Episcopal  Conference,
118.
turnpike, 147.
NewCounty, 48, 49, 53, 74.
New England,  18,  22,  51,  157,  161,
180, 181, 182,247, 250, 253.
New England coast, 17, 18, 23.
council of, 22.
Historic, Genealogical Society, 10.
Genealogical Register, 37,  38,  90,
250.
Memorial, 38.
Morrell's poem on, 157.
Southern Conference, 117, 118.
winter, 5.
New English Canaan, 19, 25.
NewHampshire, 30.
NewHaven, Conn., 163.
NewJersey College, 109, 179.
NewLondon, N. H., 209.
New Orleans  (La.),   151,  202,  224,
225.
NewPrecinct, 46.
NewYork, 30, 51, 154.
(city of), 159,219, 224, 225.
Newberry. [See Newbury.]
Newburgh, Vt., 195.
Newbury (Newberry), Richard, 258,
282, 283.
land of, 260.  •
(town of), 200.
Newburyport (city of), 175, 220.
Newland, William, 262.
Newraan, Antipas, 162.
Hopestill, 162.
Noah, 162.
Richard, 161.
Mr. (Rev.) Samuel, 7, 28, 29, 30, 98,
105,  144, 161, 182,  183, 2.54,  257^
262,  266, 268,  271, 272, 273, 275,
277, 279, 280, 282.
land of,  259.
sketch of, 161.
Samuel, Jr., 162.
(Mrs.) Sybil, 162.
Newport (R. L), 70, 16I.
Newspapers, 133.
Advance, 133.
Courier, 133,  134.
Gazette, 90, 133.
Newton, Herbert A., 115.
(town of), 189.
Theological Seminary, 122.
Night watch, 41.
Nightingale, Thomas J.,  237.
Nineteenth Army Corps, 225.
Ninth Army Corps, 221.
Regiment, 203.
 - 346 - 
INDEX.                       829
Ninth (school) district, 130.
Nolan. David, 237.
James, 237.
Non-conformist minister, 24.
Non-residents to be taxed, 68.
Nordell, Rev. P. A., 122.
Norfolk Conference, 115.
County, 3,  13, 15, 74, 184, 197.
History of,  1.
District Medical Society, 198, 206.
North. Andover (church), 178.
Anna (tight at), 219.
Bridgewater (town of), 210, 213, 216.
Church (Boston), 101, 165, 166.
Church (Weymouth), 191.
High School, 16.
Parish, 56, 75, 104, 116, 173, 189
Precinct, 15, 47, 50,  59,  61,  74,  75,
128, 129.
Street, 27.
Village, 198, 201, 202.
Weymouth, 16,27, 89, 115, 120, 133,
139,  140,  147,  151,156, 172, 176,
187,  188,  190,  194,200,201,207,
209, 210, 211, 212, 289.
Depot, 192.
Northbridge (town of),  212.
Norton, Edward, 171.
EHzabeth, 171,
Elizabeth (Thaxter, 170.
Eev. Jacob, 9,  104, 116, 171, 192.
sketch of, 170.
Jacob Porter, 171.
Capt. John, 170.
Lucy Ann, 171.
Mary Cranch, 171.
Mary (Porter, 170.
Nicholas, 259, 264, 273, 278, 282.
land of,  263.
Eichard Cranch, 171.
Eoyal, 213, 237.
Samuel, 170,
Thomas Boylston Adams, 171.
William Smith, 171.
Northleigh ( England), 97, 158.
NorthumberlandCounty, Pa ,  209.
Norway, Me,   211.
Norwich, Vt., 172.
NovaScotia, 53.
Oakes, President, 165.
Oathof allegiance, 73.
Oatis (Otis), Widow, 267, 282, 283.
O'Brien, Richard, 237.
Obstetric Society, 206.
O'Connell, Maurice, 237.
O'Connor, Jolm, 237.
Timothy, 237.
Odd FeUows, Independent Order of,
141.
Crescent Lodge, 141.
Wildey Lodge, 141.
Wompatuck Encampment, 141.
O'Donnell, Patrick, 237.
Ohio, 212.
volunteers, 212.
Old Braiutree, 169.
Colony Railroad, 15, 16, 147, 148.
Church in First Precinct, 51.
North Cemetery, 90, 167, 168, 195.
North Church, 116, 191.
Plymouth road, 145.
South Church (Boston), 98, 163, 183.
Spain, 27, 89,  107,  115, 119,  123,
155, 285, 289.
town book, 281.
Oliver, Jonathan, 301.
Orcutt, Augustus E., 237,
Benjamin, 301.
Benjamin H., 237.
Charles, 237.
David, 52,
George 0., 237.
James M., 237.
Moses, 301.
Samuel, 52.
William, 237.
Orphans' Hope Lodge, 139.
Osborn (Ozborn), John, 282, 284.
Osgood, George W., 237.
Otis (Oatis), Widow, 282.
Oxford (England), 158, 161.
(University), 97, 98.
Oxfordshire (England), 161.
Oyster River, N. H.,  159.
Ozborn (Osborn), John, 256, 274.
Pacific (Ocean), 3.
Packard, (Rev.) Asa, 104.
Paine, Abigail, I68.
Berthia (Thacher, 166.
Eunice, 168.
Eunice (Treat, 167.
James, 166.
 - 347 - 
330                      INDEX.
Paine, Kobert Treat, 1G8.
Hon. Robert Treat, 167, 168.
Thomas, 166.
Rev. Thomas, 101, 168.
sketch of, 166.
Thomas, Jr., 168.
Pamunky (fight at), 219.
Paris (France), 204, 206.
Parish, First, 102, 168.
North, 56, 75, 104.
records, 9, 10.
Second, 108, 113.
South, 75, 104.
Park, Calvin E., 132, 133.
Prof. E. A., 133.
Parker, James, Esq., 144, 252, 253.
Rev. John, 120.
Mr.,  258, 261,  262,  263, 264,  266,
267, 269, 270, 273.
Samuel, 283, 284.
Parks, John, 237.
Parliament, 297, 298.
Parrott, Josiah R., 237.
Parry, John, 237.
Parsonage house, 99.
property, 50, 104.
Partridge, Capt., 172.
Elizabeth, 163, 183.
Rev. Ralph, 163, 183.
Payne, John, i87.
Peabody, Harriet, 176.
Jacob, 176.
Lucy (Manning, 176.
Rev. S., 169.
Peakes, Benjamin, 301.
Pedman, William J., 237.
Peiroe, Sarah Robie, 210.
Pembroke, N. H., 209.
Pendleton, Elizabeth S., 177.
Peninsular campaign, 220.
Pennsylvania, 218.
State Medical Society, 209.
Penobscot expedition, 70, 19.5, 287.
Pequodwar, 11, 29, 30.
Perkins, Capt., schoolmaster, 33.
Jacob, 81.
Rev. Jonas, 112.
Capt. William, 125.
PerrigO, Charles C, 237.
Perry, Bertie, 203.
Rev. E. A., 120, 121.
George H., 237.
Perry, Helen A., 203.
Henry, 237.
Dr. Ira H., sketch of, 203.
Joanna (Bullard, 203.
Marian E., 203.
Minnie A., 203.
Orrin J., 203.
Selia E., 203.
Personal sketches, 285 to 295.
Gen. James L. Bates, 289.
Dea. Nathaniel Bayley, 287.
Major James Humphrey, 285,
James Humphrey, Esq., 288.
Gen. Solomon Lovell, 286.
Persons, Rich., 247.
PeruvianIslands, 291.
Petersburgh, V;i ,   222.
Peterson, Alfred, 237.
Pettes, I. D. Howe, 237.
Philadelphia, Pa., 1,  59,  201,  209,
212, 213.
Philbrick, Stephen K., 237.
Philip (King), 36, 40.
war of, 36, 40.
PhQlips Academy, Andover, 175, 197,
204, 291.
Anna Dunn, 173.
Deacon, 282, 283.
Creek, 19.
Hon. John, 172.
Rev. John C, 105, 174, 175.
sketch of, 172.
John C, Jr., 173.
Joshua, 39.
Lewis, 237.
Margaret W. (Hall, 173.
(Phillipes), Martin, 273.
land of, 272.
Miriam W. (Rollins, 173.
(Phillipes), Nicholas, 255, 256, 260,
266, 272.
Richard, 284.
Ensign, Richard, 44.
Wendell, Esq., sketch of. Rev. J. C.
Phillips, 172.
Physicians of  Weymouth, 48,  286.
sketches of, 180 to 213.
Pierce, David J., 237.
Eliot C, 237.
Pigwacket Indians, '60,
Pike, William, 237.
I
Pilgrim Church, 107.
 - 348 - 
INDEX.                       331
Pilgrim Church andSociety, sketch of,
115.
Lodge (K. of H.), sketch of, 141, 142.
wharf, 195.
Pilgrims, the, 3, 4, 18, 19, 21, 23, 29.
jealousy of, 29.
Piper, Dr. Oliver P., sketch of, 209.
Eleanor G., 209.
Anna Eliza (Eshleman, 209.
Pittey, Hannah, 287.
Hannah (Reed, 287.
James, 287.
Pitty (Pytty), William, 262, 265, 271,
281, 282, 283.
land of, 259.
Pittsfield (town of), 203.
Plaine, the,  254,  253, 256,  257,  260,
262, 267, 272, 273, 274, 275, 277.
Plains of Abraham, 52.
Pleasant Street, 123, 145,  178, 193.
Plymouthauthorities, 25.
Colony, 4, 7, 38, 158, 164.
Colony line, 26.
Company, 3, 18, 19, 22.
County, 3.
governorof, 24.
people, 21.
road, 145.
(town of),  2, 3,  6, 7, 13, 18, 19, 20,
21, 23,  24, 25, 36, 49, 76, 95, 146,
180, 181, 182, 200.
PointJudith, 225.
Pokanoket,36.
Polley, Mr., loan of guns from, 60.
Ponchatrain, Lake, 225.
Pond, Fresh, 27.
Great, 13,14,143, 145, 151,152, 153.
Henry V., 237.
Hucklehury, 278.
Street, 184.
the, 265, 268,270,271,276, 277, 278,
279, 281.
Whitman's, 13, 14, 27, 32, 34, 48,
144, 152.
Whortleberry, 14, 152.
Pool, Benjamin, 39.
Isaac, 52.
Samuel B ,   238.
Poole, Edward, 248, 256, 259, 261, 269,
281, 282, 283.
land of, 257.
Poor, support of, 49, 50.
Pope, Charles A., 238.
Clinton F., 238.
General, 217, 221.
Warren W., 238.
Poplar Spring Church, 223.
Population, the early, 31.
increase of, 94.
Port Hudson, 225.
Porter, Deliverance (Byram, 182.
Lieut. Ebenezer, 138.
Emily A., 206.
Emily (Vining, 206.
Hiram, 238.
Rev. Huntington, 103.
Jacob, 301.
John, 146, 182, 250.
Ensign John, 138.
Jonathan K., 238.
Richard, 170, 250, 255, 265, 268, 279,
281, 282, 284.
Mary (Porter, 170.
Micah, 301.
Thomas, 301.
Capt. Thomas, 301.
Thomas B., 206.
Whitcomb, 149.
Portland, Me., 196.
Medical School, 210.
Portsmouth, N. H., I59,i7i.
Post 15, G. A. R., 139.
office, the first, 77.
offices, 15, 16.
Potomac, Army of, 85.
(River), 218, 221.
Pound, the, 274.
Powers, Peter, 238.
Pratt, Abiah, 301.
Abner, 285.
Asa B., 238.
Benjamin, 301.
Benjamin, 2d, 238.
Gen. Benjamin F., 85, 139, 220, 238.
Benjamin F., 2d, 238.
Benjamin F., 3d, 238.
Betty (French, 188.
Charles, 238.
Chester D., 238.
Clarissa Lothrop, 208.
Gushing, 301.
Daniel, 301.
David, 301.
Widow Deborah, 288.
 - 349 - 
332                      INDEX.
Pratt, Ephraim, 301.
Fraucis B., 238.
Francis S.,  238.
George H,   238.
George Hiram, 238.
George W., 141.
Henry, 238.
Henry F., 238.
Ichabod, 188, 301.
James, 238, 301.
John, 283.
John, Jr., 301.
J. Quincy, 238.
Joseph, 52.
Joshua, 301.
Josiah H., 238.
Laban, 301.
Leander, 238.
Leonard, 238.
Leonard F., 238.
Macuth (Marcuth), 282, 283.
Matthew, 263, 265, 269, 283, 301.
land of,  265.
Nehemiah, 301.
Phinehas, narrative of, 19, 21.
Samuel, 238.
Samuel, Jr., 301.
Silvanus, 301.
Solomon, 301.
Sergt. Thomas, killed, 39.
Thomas, 282, 283.
Pray, Samuel, 238.
Precinct, First, 51.
North, 15, 47, 50, 59, 61, 74, 75, 128,
129.
Second, 50, 58, 101, 108.
South, 15, 50, 54, 58, 61, 76, 128.
Preparations for war, 60.
President Lincoln, 83, 216, 220, 292.
Pricesof necessaries fixed, 62, 66.
Priest (Prist), James, 273, 283, 284.
land of, 272.
Prince, Rev. Thomas, 157.
Prince's Annals, 96, 157.
Princeton College, 209.
Seminary, 171.
Property owners, 32; 34, 254.
records, 32, 34, 254.
Protestant Methodist Church, 116.
Prouty, Elijah, 238.
Oliver B., 238.
Providence, R. I., 208.
Province,the, 296.
Provinces, the, 298.
Provincial Congress, representatives
to,  60.
Convention, 58.
Provisions, procuring of, 67, 68, 69.
Pry, Thomas W., 238.
Public schools, sketch of, 125 to 132.
record office (London), 250.
Puffer, James E., 238.
Pulpit, the Weymouth, 28, 167, 168.
Puritanparty, 28.
Puritans, the, 29, 42, 43, 97,
Putillow, Frank A., 238.
Pythias, Knights of sketch of, 141.
Pytty.  [See Pitty.]
Quakers, 159, 163.
Quebec, 52.
Quincy, Elizabeth, 169.
Elizabeth (Norton, 169.
Col. John, 169.
Lucy, 192.
(town of), 16, 79, 120, 121, 147, 167,
169,192, 205, 287.
(transport), 224.
Quinn, Jeremiah, 238.
Railroad, Old Colony, 15,  16,  147.
148.
South Shore, 15, 16, 147.
Rainge, the, 259.
Rand,James W., 238.
John, 260.
Randall, Martin L., 238.
(Randoll),  Robert,  254,  269,  271,
283.
land of, 258.
Randolph (town of), 79.
Rates, assessment of, 33.
Rawlines (Rawlin,  Rawling,  Raw-
linges),  Thomas,  257,  262, 266,
274, 27 7,280.
land of, 277.
Rawson, Hon. Edward, 164.
Mary, 164.
Ray, William N., 238.
Raymond, Alvah, 142.
Bela T., 238.
Benjamin, 238.
Charles W., 238.
Horace B., 238.
 - 350 - 
INDEX.                       333
Raymond,James G., 238.
T. H., 238.
Thomas W., 238.
Walter B.,  238.
Raynham (town of), 109.
Rea, John D., 238.
William M., 238.
Read, Hanna, 248.
Susan, 248.
William, 248.
Reade (Read), John, 255, 266,278, 281.
(Read), Philip,  256, 263, 281, 283.
land of, 266.
(Read), William, 26,  40,  257, 258,
267, 268, 270, 271, 274, 277, 280.
deed to, 280.
land of, 257, 261.
Widow, 282, 283.
Zakery, 268.
Readville, camp at, 223, 225.
Reamy, Joseph, 239.
Rebellion record, sketch of the, 83.
difficulties of compiling, 214.
sources of information, 214, 215.
plan of record, 215.
companies enrolled, 215.
in what regiments, 215.
their  character  and  reputation,
215.
commencement of, 83.
call for volunteers, 83.
public meeting, 83.
soldiers enlisted, 83.
raising money, 83, 84, 85.
record of soldiers to be kept, 84.
pay of soldiers, 84.
bounties, 84, 86, 87.
aid to families, 84, 85.
second company raised, 85.
town bonds, 85.
third company raised, 85.
defective enrolment, 86.
difficulties in raising men, 86.
contributions, 86.
return of  Company H, 12th Regi-
ment, 87.
fourth company raised, 87
more bounties, 87.
end of the war, 88.
losses, etc., 88.
summary of the town's service, 88.
statistics, 88.
Rebellion, further record, with list of
men, 214 to 246.
war of, 292.
Reckards, Winslow M., 239.
Record, John, 39.
Records, church, 9, 10, 103, 172.
colonial, 10.
court, 10.
General Court, 15, 26, 27, 29, 30, 40,
44, 47.
of contemporaneous writers, 10.
ofthe council, 45.
parish, 9, 10.
rebellion, 11, 214.
State, 10.
town, 9, 10, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 33,34,
35, 41, 42, 43, 4.5,  47, 51, 53,  54,
55, 82,  169.
war, 11.
Redmond,Charles S., 239.
Reed (Read, Reade).   [See Asa, 301.]
Rev. Charles E., 115.
Ezra, 145, 301.
Franklin, 239.
Geneaology, 162.
John, 38.
John, 3d, 301.
Josiah (Bates & Reed), 291.
Matthew, 239.
Quincy L., Esq., 143.
Salmon, 239.
Samuel, 129, 301.
Samuel W., Esq., 123.
Thomas, 239.
William, 145, 146.
Reed's Mill, sketch of, 145.
Reform Club, 142.
Rehoboth, emigration to, 29, 30, 98,
161, 280.
Bliss's History of, 30.
(town of), 162.
Remington, Foster, 239.
Rennard, Henry F., 239.
Reno'sbrigade, 221.
Representatives, 61.
House of, 296.
instructions to, 63, 296.
to be paid for services, 74.
Revolution, ii.
War of  (Revolutionary War), 51,
55, 56, 69, 193, 286, 287.
sketch of, 55.
/
 - 351 - 
334                      INDEX.
Revolution,  arbitrary  measures of
the Crown, 55.
town action, 56.
agents to meet in Boston, 56.
committees of correspondence, 57.
tax on tea, 57.
effect of the tax, 57.
votes on the resolutions of Congress,
58.
refusal to  pay taxes  to the royal
treasurer, 59.
town committee of correspondence,
59.
minute-men, 60.
preparations for war, 60.
raising troops, 61.
Declaration of Independence, 62,
bounties to soldiers, 62.
instructions to Gen. Lovell, 63.  •
scarcity of men, 65.
State convention, 66.
State constitution, 67.
procuring men and provisions, 67.
soldiers sent to HuU, 69.
end of the war, 69.
cost to the town in men andmoney,
69, 70, 71.
effects of, 72.
slow recovery from, 72.
Revolutionary army, 194.
soldiers in, 300.
Reynolds, John, 283.
Gen. John F., 139.
Post, G. A. R., 139, 289, 294.
"William H., 239.
RhodeIsland, 30, 70, 205.
campaign, 70, 286.
Rice, Josiah, 301.
Stephen L., 239.
Urban, 239.
William, 52.
William P., 239.
Richards, Abigail (Thayer, 187.
Abigail, 187.
Augustus J.,  199.
Benjamin, 52, 53,  187.
Dr. Benjamin, 187, 189, 190.
sketch of, 187.
Benjamin P., 239.
Charles L., 239.
Charles N,  239.
David P., 239.
Richards. E. E.,  140.
Elias, Esq., 134.
Elizabeth Gardner (Wolcott, 199.
Ephraim, 187
Pamily (Genealogy), 187.
George C, 199.
George W., 239.
Jacob, 199.
Dr. Jacob, sketch of, 199.
James, 2d, 288.
Joane, 257.
Joanna, 187.
Joanna (Hunt, 187.
John, 253.
Joseph, 38.
Lydia (Colson, 199.
Mary, 187.
Mary Gardner, 199.
Mr., 257, 263, 265.
Mill, Mrs., 281.
Nathaniel, 288.
Peter Hunt, 187.
Ruth, 187.
Samuel M., 239.
Sarah, 187.
Sarah Ann, 199.
Susannah Lincoln, 199.
Thomas, 144.
(Richardes), Thomas, land of, 277.
Wealthean, 144.
(Richardes), William, 52,  254, 556,
257, 258, 259, 270, 272, 279, 283,
284.
land of, 274.
William H., 239.
Richardson, Emery, 239.
p. p., 239.
Rider, Thomas,  256,  261,  272,  277,
282.
Riley,  Michael, 239.
Timothy, 239.
Ripley, William, Jr., 301.
Ritchie, Henry, 239.
River (Riuer), Back, 13,  14,  15,  17,
26, 47, 144, 147, 265, 266, 273, 275.
Connecticut, 37.
Fore, 13, 14, 15, 26, 147, 154.
Fresh, 26.
Marsh, 145.
Mill, 14, 143, 265, 278.
old swamp, 14.
the, 265, 267, 275, 277, 278.
 - 352 - 
INDEX.                       335
Riverside, Cal, 202.
Roach, Eev. Father, 122, 123.
Roachman, John, 239.
Roads, built early, 27.
Robbins, Charles, H., 239.
CliristopherC, 239.
Robinson, Benjamin F., 239.
Wilber F., 239.
William H., 239.
Rockwood, Elisha E., 239.
Rev. Samuel L., 115.
RockyHill, 265.
Roddan, Rev. Father, 122.
Roe, Hugh, 259,  264, 265,  268,  276,
282, 283.
Rogers, Daniel F., 239.
(Rogeres),  Deacon, 271, 282.
Rogers' Hall, ii3.
(Rogeres), James, 259, 282.
(Rogeres), John, 253, 256, 267, 271,
274, 275, 281, 283.
land of, 266.
Dea. John, tow^n clerk, 33.
President, 165.
Rolie, Ebeuezer, 128.
Rollins, Dr. W. H., 173.
RomanCatholic Church,sketch of,122.
Rosenfeld, Edward, 194.
Ross, Samuel J., 239.
Round Island, 15, 266, 268.
ceded to Weymouth, 29.
Marsh, 259.
Rowe, Rev. C. H., 122.
James, 239.
Rowland, Richard, 257.
Rowley, Edward, 239.
Roxbury (town of), 27, 97,  109, 160,
161,  177,  220.
Royal Arcanum, 142.
College of Surgeons, 206.
Ophthalmic Hospital, 206.
Rozary, Silas, 30i.
Ruggles, George, 239.
Russ, Richard, wounded soldier, 41.
Russell, Rev. Jonathan, 166.
Ryan, John, 239.
Timothy, 239.
Sables, Cape, 152.
Saco, Me., 160.
Sacred Heart, parish of, sketch of, 123.
Safford, Mr., 292.
Saint.  [See St.]
Sale, Edward, 273, 279.
Salem, tax of,  25.
(town of), 60, 158, 163.
Salisbury (Eng.), 162, 183.
(Saulsbury), Stephen, 52.
William, 52.
Salmon, Catherine Louisa, 169.
Salt Marsh,  254,  256,  257,  258, 259,
261,  262,  265,  266, 267, 269, 270,
271, 272, 273, 274, 275, 277, 279.
Saltonstall, Commodore, 70, 287.
Sampson,John M„239.
San Francisco (CaL), 291.
Sanborn, Dr. William, 195.
Sanders, John, 20, 182.
Sandy Hook, Md., 217.
Sanitary Commission, 205.
Santa Barbara County, Cal., 203.
Sargent, Edward W., 239.
George W., 239.
Walter H., 239.
Saulsbury, Stephen, 52.
Savage's Winthrop, 25.
Sawyer, Rev. R. T., 121.
Saxon (transport), 224.
Sayle's Mill, U5.
Scheduleof town expense, the first, 80.
Schoolcommittee, 197.
matters, Capt. Perkins, 33.
School-masters.
Edward Bate, 127.
James Blake, 128.
John Calder, 128.
William Chard, 125, 126.
John Copp, 126, 127.
Lemuel Cushing, 128.
Joseph Dyer, 127.
John Gait,  128.
James Humphrey, 3d, 129.
Samuel Hunt, 127.
John King, 127.
Capt. William Perkins, 125.
Samuel Reed, 129.
Ebenezer Rolie, 128.
Thomas Thornton, 127.
John Torrey, 127,
Joseph Torrey, 128.
Ebeuezer Wiiite, 127.
Ezra Whitmarsh, 128.
David Wyre, 128.
Schools, cost of, 93.
 - 353 - 
336                      INDEX.
Schools, public, sketch of, 125 to 132.
Schuylkill County Hospital, 209.
County Medical Association, 209.
Haven, Pa., 209.
Scituate (town of), 49, 120,  163, 183.
Scully, John, 239.
Sea (the),  255, 258, 259, 260, 261, 262,
264, 266, 267, 268, 269, 271, 272,
273, 274, 275, 276, 277, 279.
Seal, the town, 85.
Second (Army) Corps, 222.
Brigade, 225.
Congregational Church, 294.
Church, 107, 177, 179.
sketch of, 108.
Division, 197.
Division, 19th Army Corps, 225.
Parish, 113.
Precinct, 101, 108.
Eegiment, 193, 197.
N. H. Regiment, 226.
(school) district, 130.
U. S. Artillery, 226.
Sedar (cedar) swamp, 273.
Selectmen, 253.
first named, 33.
powers of, 33.
to dine at the town's charge, 42.
Senate, State, 285.
Shaler, Gen., 209.
Shannahan,Jeremiah, 239.
William, 239.
Sharon (town of), 212.
Shaw, Abraham, 182.
Abram, 39.
Augustus E., 239.
Austin B., 239.
Caleb, 301.
E. Faxon, 240,
George, 240.
Eev. George Wallace, 16.
Gilbert M., 240.
Jeremiah, 145.
John, 282, 283.
Rev. John, 102, 169.
Joseph, 255, 258, 261, 263.
land of, 255.
Nathaniel, 301.
Capt. Nathaniel, 138.
Nathaniel & Co., 291.
Orren, 200.
Susannah, 182.
Shawmut, 24.
Shaw's, Jolin, 128.
Sheafe, Jacob, 163.
Margaret (Webb, 163.
Sheep Lsland, 15.
Shehan, Dennis, 240.
ShelburneFalls Academy, 177.
Sheldonville (town of), 122.
Shepheard, Humfrey, 249.
Shepherd, Joseph E., 240.
Sheppard, Joel F., 141.
Shepperd, Ralph, 255, 257.
Shergold, Nehemiah, 240.
Sherman, Cyrus, 145.
E. & C, 145.
Elon, 145.
Gen. W. T., 225.
Shetucket (transport), 224.
Ship building, 155.
Island, 224.
Shoals, Isle of, 158.
Shove, Rev. George, 162.
Shuttlesworth, (Rev.) Samuel, 103.
SiUanoua, Capt., 265.
Silvester (Siluester),  Richard,  254,
255, 256, 257, 258, 263, 266, 275, 280.
land of, 267.
Simpson, Oliver E., 240.
Simstuly (England), 249.
Skinner, Rev. G. W., 120.
Robert G., 240.
Slack, Francis K.,  141.
Rev. Samuel R., 124.
Slason, William T., 240.
Slatterly, Edward, 240.
John G., 240.
Patrick, 240.
Small lots, 281.
Small-pox and measles, guide to, 163,
184.
regulations, 74.
Smelt (Smilt) Brook, 26, 49, 79.
Smiledge, Alfred H., 240.
John S., 240.
Smilt [see Smelt] Brook, 253.
Smith, Abigail, 90, 169.
Abigail (Fowle, 168.
Bernard, 240.
Cornelius, 240.
Edward, 256, 257, 258, 263, 275.
deed from, 280.
land of, 268.
 - 354 - 
INDEX.                       337
Smith, Elizabeth, 169.
Elizabeth (Quincy, 169.
Frank, 240.
James, 240, 266, 271, 281, 282.
land of, 262.
James, Jr., 283.
James, Sr., 283, 284.
Jason, Jr., 240.
John, 240.
John, 2d, 240.
Mary, 169.
Kev. Matthew Hale, 118.
Richard B., 240.
William, 168, 169, 254, 256, 258, 259,
269, 274, 280.
land of, 270.
Rer. William,  8,  9,  101,  103,  168,
169, 170,  171.
sketch of, 168.
William W., 240.
Smith's, 79.
Smyth, Rev. Father, 123,
Snell, Wilham, 240.
Snooke, James, 261, 270, 272, 274.
land of, 273.
Widow, 283.
Social libraries, 134.
Societies and associations, sketches
of, 139 to 142.
Soldiers in the Revolution, list of, 300.
enrolment of, 60.
to be hired from out of town,
61, 63.
not to be drafted, 64.
further call for, 65.
pay of, 65, 66, 68, 69.
new method of raising, 65, 68.
to be drafted, 67.
sent to Hull, 69.
number of losses, 70.
in French and Indian wars, 51, 52.
in King Philip War, 30, 38, 39, 40.
in Pequod War, 30.
in Warof 1812-15, 77.
Soldiers' Monument, 87, 88, 90.
record in the Rebellion, 214 to 243.
Somerby, H. G., note from, 250.
Somerset, county of,  Eng., 96, 247,
248.
Somersetshire, Eng., 158, 162.
Soule [see Sale], Edward, 281.
SouthAbington Church, 121.
South Boston, 124.
Boston Ice Company,sketchof,  153.
Church, 179.
Mountain (battle of), 217,221.
Parish, 56, 104, 287, 291.
statistics, 75, 82.
Precinct, 47, 54, 58, 61, 70, 128.
Shore Commandery, 140.
Shore Railroad, 15, 16, 147.
village, 202, 213.
Weymouth, 89, 108, 113,  119, 134,
138,  141, 147, 149, 151,  156,  178,
179,  185, 193, 194, 197, 198, 199,
200, 207, 208, 209, 213, 289, 292,
294, 295.
Weymouth, First National Bank of
294.
sketch of, 149.
Weymouth  Savings Bank, sketch
of, 149.
Southampton, Eng., 162, i83.
Spaulding, M. D., 292.
Spear, Albert A., 240.
Charles H., 240.
Rev. John M., 119.
Josiah Q., 240.
Richard, 240.
Spencer, Jeremiah, 240.
Spinney, Harris H., 240.
Spooner and Webster, 134.
Mr., 134.
William A., 240.
Spottsylvania (battle of), 218.
Springer, Samuel B., 240.
St. Andrew's Episcopal Church, 199.
St. Bartholomew Act, 159.
St. Buryan. Eng., 159.
St. Edmund's Hall (college), 161.
St. Edmund's, Salisbury, Eng., 162,
183.
St. Francis Xavier College, N. B.,
211.
Xavier, parish of, sketch of, 122.
St. Jerome, parish of, sketch of, 123-
St. John's, N. B., 213.
St. Mary's Hall (college), 158.
Stackpole, Oliver B., 240.
Stamp Act, 296, 298.
Stamping and gilding establishment,
156.
Standish, Capt. Miles, 20, 21, 25, 182.
Stansbury, EUzabeth, 213.
 - 355 - 
338                       INDEX.
Stanton, Rev. George F.,  108,  lU,
294.
Staple, Jeffrey  ( Jeffry, Jeffery, Jeff-
eray), 254, 261, 264, 270, 282.
land of, 271.
John, 270, 282, 283.
land of, 267.
Widow, 282, 284.
Starbuck, George, 240.
state archives, 10,37, 39,40,41,44,52.
constitution, 67.
convention at Cambridge, 66.
Convention (Baptist), 122.
election, the first, 68.
House, 10, 300.
records, 10.
Senate, 285.
Street (Boston), 216.
Stedman, Lieut.-Col. Joseph, 224.
Stepping stone, the, 257.
Stevens, James H., 240.
Stewart, James, 126.
Stiles, Major Frederick G., 224.
President, 163.
Stoddard, Addison, 240.
Elbridge I., 240.
Henry A., 240.
John H., 240.
Sargent L., 240.
Stone (Ston), Robert, 261, 282.
William E., 240.
Stoneham (town of), 186.
Stoughton, Capt. Israel, 160, 161.
(town of), 120, 216.
Major William, 41.
Stow (town of), 59.
Stowell, Ruth, 188.
Strangers not encour.aged, 32.
Streame, Thomas, 257, 268, 271, 274,
282,283.
Widow, 257, 262, 282.
Street, Rev. T. W., 124.
(Streete),  the,  255, 257, 261,  268,
272, 273, 276,277.
Stuart, James, 40.
Sturgis's division, 221.
Suffolk County, 15, 41, 48, 49, 74.
Probate records, 186.
(records) deeds, 28, 251, 253.
Sullivan,Gen., 286.
Summer Street (Boston), 216.
Sumner, Gen. W. H., 80.
Sumter, (attack on), 216.
(fort), 83.
Superintendent of schools, 131.
SupremeCourt, 106, 173.
Surplus revenue, 80.
Sutton, Reuben, 240.
Swampe, the,   254,  255,  256,  257,
258, 259, 260, 264, 266, 267, 268,
269, 272, 273, 276, 278.
Swan, Gideon R., 240.
(ship), 19.
Swanzey, attack upon, 36.
Sweares, Henry, 240.
Sweeny, Robert, 240.
Sweeting, Putnam I.,  240.
Swivel guns, 60.
Symmes, Widow Mary, 164.
William, 164.
Rev. Zechariah, 161.
Tabor, Anna, 248.
Jane, 248.
Sarah, 248.
Timothy, 247.
Tannery, land granted to John Tor-
rey for, 45.
Tanning business, 155.
Tardinessat town meetings fined, 33.
Taunton (city of), ii5, i62.
Tax to pay soldiers, 61, 62, 63, 67, 69.
Taxes abated  by the General Court,
40.
assessments to be notified, 33, 66.
colonial, 25.
lists  of  polls  and  property to  be
brought in, 33, 66.
payment of, refused  to  the  royal
treasurer, 58, 59.
Taylor, John, 262, 272, 282, 283.
land of, 260.
Joseph F., 240.
Sarah, 203.
Tea, action regarding, 57.
Telegraph, ue.
Telephone, 148.
Temperance organizations, 142.
Temple of Honor, 142.
Reform Club, 142.
Good Templars, 142.
Woman's  Christian   Temperance
Union, 142.
Temple of Honor, 142.
 - 356 - 
INDEX.                       339
Tenth (school) district, 130.
Terry, Rev. Calvin, 115.
Rev. James P., 110, 111.
Thacher, Anthony, ley,  183.
Elizabeth, 163.
Elizabeth (Partridge, 163, 183.
Margaret (Webb-Sheaffe, 163.
Patience, 163.
Peter, 163.
Rev. Peter, 100, 101, 162, 183.
sketch of,  165.
Ralph or Rodolphus, 163.
Rev. Thomas (Mr.),  8,  28,  98,  99,
100, 183,  1S<\ 282.
sketch of, 162.
Thomas, .Jr.,  163, IS5.
" Thanksgiving day, put by," 43.
Thatch, regulations respecting, 27, 32.
Thaxter, Dr.,  195.
Capt. Samuel, 51, 52, 286.
Thayer, Abigail, 187.
Barnabas, 301.
Ebenezer, 301.
Ephraim, 187.
George R., 240.
John, 301.
John Q. A., 241.
Joseph W., 241.
Josiah, 288.
Col. Minot, 198.
Nathaniel A., 241.
N. W., 241.
Obadiah, Jr., 301.
Samuel G., 241.
Sarah (Bass, 187.
Stillman, 241.
Solomon, 301.
Watson, 241.
William G., 241.
Third Church, Boston (Old South), 98.
Regiment,  Minnesota  volunteers,
209.
Thirty-fifth Regiment, 85,  87,  215,
226.
sketch of, 220.
where gathered, 220.
when organized, 220.
mu.stered into service, 220.
in the field, 220.
first fighting, 221.
second campaign, 221.
Western campaign, 222.
Thirty-fifth  Regiment,  down  the
Mississippi, 222.
wilderness campaign, 222.
before Petersburg, 222.
home again, 223.
statistics, 223,
Thirty-ninth Regiment, 219.
Thirty-seventh liegiment, 226.
Thirty-third Regiment, 218, 293.
Thomas, Albert, 241.
Allen, 241.
Benjamin F., 241.
Edwin, 241.
Edwin, 2d, 241.
Francis L., 241.
Henry A., 135.
Isaac, 241.
John, 241, 288.
Leonard, 241.
Minot A., 241.
Nelson, 241.
Prince, 301.
Thomaston, Me., 202.
Thompson, C. G., 140.
Harrison G., 241.
John [see Tomson], 282, 283.
Josiah, Jr., 241
Sumner, 241.
Zenas M., 241.
Thornton, Thomas, 127.
Thoroughfare Gap (battle of), 217.
Thoroughgood, Edw., 250.
Throat ail,  193.
distemper, 50, 103.
Tide Mill, sketch of, 144.
Tilden, Atherton W., 123, 124, 155.
Timber, preservation of, 32.
Tinkham, Augusta  Louise  (Trask,
210.
Dr. Granville Wilson, sketch of, 210.
Maude C, 210.
Oliver G., 210.
Tirrell, Abel, 288.
Albert H., 241.
Albert J., 241.
Alfred W., 241.
Augustus, 241.
Benjamin, 52, 301.
Betsey (Whitmarsh, 295.
Charles Q., 212.
Clara J., 212.
Deborah, 289.
 - 357 - 
340                      INDEX.
Tirrell, Deborah (Loud, 288.
E. P., 241.
Ebenezer, 52, 301.
Ebenezer, Jr., 241.
Edwin F., 241.
Francis B.,  241.
Franklin, 241.
Frederic N., 212.
George E., 212.
George W., 241.
Gideon, 144.
Capt. James, 295.
John W., 241.
Capt. Joseph, 153.
Levi, 241.,
Major, 241.
Mary Jane, 295.
Nathan T., 212.
Norton, 212.
Dr. Norton Quincy, sketch of, 212.
Susan Jane (French, 212.
Thomas, 69, 301.
Warren, 241.
Winfield B., 241.
Tirrell's HaU, 122.
Mill, 73, 145, 155.
sketch of,  144.
Title deed of the town, 27, 251.
Titus, Rev. Anson, Jr., 119, 120, 121.
(Tytus), Eobert, land of, 274.
Todd's Tavern (battle of), 218.
Tomalty, Owen, 241.
Tomsonn (Thompson), John, 270.
Toombs, Eliot L., 241.
Torrie.  [See Torrey.]
Torrey, Ann, 285.
Appleton H., 241.
Benjamin F., 241.
Charles D,  241.
Charles L., 241.
Charlotte I., 200.
Dr. David, sketch of, 1 99.
David F., 200.
Deborah (Fitch, 193.
Dolly (Blanchard, 199.
Edward M., 200.
Fogg &, 291.
James, 193.
Dr. James, 289.
sketch of, 1 92.
James Gorham, 193.
James L., 241.
Torrey, John, 127, 285,
granted land for a tan-yard, 45.
Jonathan, 301.
(Torrie), Joseph, 128, 259, 275.
Joseph E., 2 11.
Joshua, Jr., 301.
Joshua L., 241.
Lavinia, 194.
Lorenzo, 241.
Lucinda, 194.
Maria Stillman (Balsh, 200.
Mary J.,  200.
Mary (Symes, 285.
Dea. Micajah, 193.
Dea. Micajah, Jr., 193.
(Torrie), Mr., 259,  267,  268,  271,
279.
Naaman, 242.
Naaman, Jr., 242.
Nancy, 194.
Noah, 301.
Noah, Esq., 199.
Noah W,   242.
Rev. Reuben, 194.
Richard L., 242.
Richmond, 242.
Dea. Samuel, 199.
Rev. Samuel, 99, 100, 101, 157, 165,
290.
sketch of, 164.
Samuel S., 200.
Sarah, 193, 289.
(Mrs.) Sarah, 193.
Sarah (Nash, 193.
Sumner F., 242.
Susan, 194.
Susan (White, 193.
(Mrs.) Susanna, 193.
Turner, 242.
William, recorder, 34.
(Capt.  Mr.)  WiUiam, 34,  37,  38,
39,40, 44,  99,  164, 193, 253, 284,
285, 289.
land of, 265.
Totman, Elmer H., 242.
Irving J., 242.
Tower, Carrie A., 208.
Dr. Charles Carroll, 197.
sketch of, 207.
Charlotte B., 208.
Clarissa Lothrop (Pratt, 208.
Helen M., 208.
 - 358 - 
INDEX.                       341
Tower, Knth N., 208.
Town affairs, 41.
attempt to divide, 74, 75, 81, 89.
bonds, 85,  87.
books, 35.
boundaries, 26, 45.
clerk, 33.
compensation of, 34.
commons  [see  Commons], 34, 49,
50.
expenditures, 93.
first annual meeting, 33.
government, 31.
growth of, 93.
hall, 82, 123.
historical committee, 1.
lines, 78, 79.
meetings, when and how called, 31,
33, 41,42.
officers, 32, 41.
pay of, 81.
opposes roads and bridges, 76.
population of, 94.
" presented" to the  General Court.
34.
records, 9,  10,  27, 28,  29,  32,  33,
34„35, 41, 42, 43, 45, 47, 51,  53,
54,  55,  178,  186,  187,  251,  254,
281.
to be copied, 82.
regulations, 48.
report of expenses printed, 80.
school expenditures, 93.
seal, 85.
valuation, 94.
Townsend, William, 242.
Townsmen, 33, 253.
to report, 33.
Tracy, Patrick, 242.
Traders (early coast), 3, 17.
Trask, Augusta Louise, 210.
Joseph, 242.
Trayning Greene, 254, 256.
Treat, Abigail (Willard, 167.
Eunice, 167.
Col. Robert, 167.
Rev. Samuel, 167.
Trinity College, 161.
Parish, sketch of, 123.
Troops, raising of,  61, 62,  63, 64,  65,
66, 67, 68.
Trott, Charles R., 242.
Trouble in the church, 28, 97.
Trufant, David, 301.
Edgar H.,242.
Edward F., 242
(Truefant),  Capt. Joseph,  52,  71,
301.
Joshua, 301.
Tuck, Lorenzo, 213.
Mrs. Dr., 213.
Tufts, Dr.  Cotton,  51,53, 56,57,59,
60, 61,  63,  64, 70,  71, 73, 77, 135,
195, 286, 296.
sketch of,  190.
Cotton Jr., 132, 135,  192.
Library rooms, 134.
Library, sketch of,  135.
Lucy (Quincy, 192.
Peter, 190.
Capt. Peter, 190.
place, 188.
Quincy, 135.
Simon, 190.
Dr. Simon, 190.
Dr. Simon, Jr., 190.
Susan, 135.
Susanna (Warner, 192.
Turner, Jacob, 302.
Micab, Jr., 302.
Waldo, 242.
Turnpike, Hingham and Quincy, 79^
147.
New Bedford, 147.
Plymouth, 76.
Weymouth and Braintree, 132, 146.
Twelfth (Webster) Regiment, 83, 87,
215,226, 289, 292.
sketch of, 216.
organization, 216.
mustered into the service, 216.
delays, 216.
first service, 217.
battles,  217.
heavy fighting, 217, 218.
closing campaign, 218.
mustering out, 219.
statistics, 219.
(Webster)  Regiment  Association,
294.
resolutions of,  294, 295.
Twenty-ninth Regiment, 226.
Twenty-second Army Corps, 226.
Regiment, 206.
 - 359 - 
342                      INDEX.
Twenty-third Co.,  Heavy Artillery
226.
Two hundred and fiftieth  anniversary
of the settlement of the town, 91.
Tyler, Rev. A. H.,  116.
Rev, William, 109.
Tyndall, John, 242.
Tytus (Titus), Robert, land of, 274.
Union Church of  South "Weymouth,
110, 111.
sketch of,  113.
Church of Weymouth and  Brain-
tree, 107, 118, 123.
sketch of. 111.
Guards, 84.
Hall, 121.
Medical and Surgical  Association,
206, 208, 211.
National Bank of  Weymouth and
Braintree, sketch of, 148, 149.
Race Course, 224.
service, 214.
Street, 193, 200.
the, 220.
United States, 293.
army, 203.
inspectors, 226.
constitution of,  192.
service,  215, 216, 220, 223,226,294.
volunteers, 203.
Universalist First Society, 118.
Second Society, 119,  120.
Third Society,  120.
Upham, Elizabeth, 249.
(Mrs.) Elizabeth, 249.
(Uppame), John, 26, 249, 252,  254,
256, 262, 264, 267, 269, 273,  275,
276, 277, 280.
land of, 277.
John, Jr., 249.
Nathaniel, 249.
Sarah, 249.
#•
Valuation of the town, 94.
Vance, William, 242.
VanVolkenburg's Brigade, 220.
Vermont, 30.
Medical College, 207.
University, 208.
Venus (schooner), 153.
Vickaburg, Miss., 212, 222.
Viger, .Joseph, 242.
Village Cemetery, 196.
Vining, Adoniram E., 242.
Alonzo, 242.
Andrew J., 242.
Benjamin, Jr., 302.
Daniel, 242.
David, 302.
George H., 242.
George W., 242.
John, 282 283, 302.
Major (John), 59.
John Randall, 52, 53.
N. F., 242.
Solon A,   242.
William A., 242.
Vinson, Betsey, 194.
Hannah (Holbrook, 194.
John, 185, 194, 302.
Sarah (Colson, 194.
Susanna, 194.
Thomas (Lieut-Col, Dr., Mr.),  11,
71, 145, 194, 302.
Thomas Warren, 1 94.
Warren, 194.
Vinson's Mill, sketch of, 145,
Vinton, Josiah, Jr., 148.
memorial, 184.
Virginia,  I8,  24,  81,  203,  217, 2I8,
221, 222.
company, 18.
eastern, 218.
Vogel, Henry B., 242.
Volunteers, 83.
Voorhees, Rev. Louis B., 115.
Vote by ballot, the first, 41.
Voters, qualifications of, 76, 78.
to attend town meetingi or pay a
fine, 42.
WachHouse Hill, 254, 260.
Wade, Dinah, 250.
Elizabeth, 249.
Richard, 249.
Waie, the, 272.
Waldron, Rev. D. W., 117, 1I8,
Wales' Hall, 118.
Miss Mary F. R., 132, 133.
Adjt. Nathaniel, 220.
Timothie, 276.
Waling, Richard, 265, 272, 278.
land of, 264.
 - 360 - 
INDEX.                       343
Walker, Edwin, 242.
George, 242.
Isaac H., 242.
Roscius R., 242.
Wall, Patrick, 242.
Wallace, Addi, 177.
Margaret (Sumner, 177.
Sarah Sumner, 177.
"William S., 140.
Walsh, John M., 140, 141.
Michael, 242.
Waltham, Henry, 143, 144, 265.
Mr., 259, 263.
Richards, Bates Mill, 289.
sketch of, 143.
William, 143.
W"amouth (Weymouth), 251.
WampetUC, Sachem, 28, 251, 252.
War, French and Indian, 11, 51.
King Philip, 30, 36.
Pequod, 11, 29.
Rehellion, 11, 83, 214.
Revolutionary, 11, 55, 56.
with England, 77.
preparations for, 60.
W^ard, James, 242.
Patrick, 242.
Capt. Samuel, 61, 65, 71, 302.
Wards, town divided into, 90.
Ware, Lawrence, 242.
Warham, Mr., 182.
W^arner, Mrs. Susanna, 192.
Warrant for town meeting first  re-
corded, 76.
Warren Academy, 212.
Anna A.,  205.
Arthure (Arthur), 273, 274, 279, 281.
land of, 267.
Rev. Charles I.,  109.
Dr. Ephraim Lewis, 242,
sketch of,  204.
Dr. John C, 197, 199.
Sarah (Taylor-Ball, 205.
Widow, 283.
Washingtoncorporation, 120.
D. C, 87, 203, 208, 217, 220, 222, 226.
(General), 66, 70.
Street, 82, 119, 122, 147.
Waterprivileges, 79, 80, 81.
question, 91.
Waterman, David, 302.
Rev. Samuel, 164.
Waterman, Thomas, 186.
Watertown (town of), 60.
Wayland (town of), 203.
Waymothf Weymouth), 253.
Waymouth (Weymouth), 39.
.         (England), 247.
Weaver (Weauer),  Clement,  262
264, 273.
Way wardens, 33.
Webb, Asa, 149.
Christopher, Esq., 202.
Eliza P., 202.
Henry, 163.
Mary, 202.
Margaret, 163, 202.
(Web, Webbe), Mr., 256, 259, 263,
266, 277, 279.
Rev. Mr., 101, 165, 166.
Richard, 279.
land of, 262.
Susan (White, 202.
Webb's Mill, 144.
W^ebcowett ( Webecowett), Josias,
sachem, 28, 251, 252.
Weed, Otis H., Jr., 242.
W^eedon, Goodman, 282.
William, 272.
W^eeks,James, 242.
Nathan, 242.
Welch, Francis, 173.
Harriet, 173.
James, 3d, 242.
Weld, Rev. John, 161.
WeldonRailroad, 223.
Wells, Rev. Charles L., 124.
Wendall, James C, 242.
Wenham (town of), 162.
Wesleyan University, 203.
WessagUSCUS( Wessagusset), 5, 6, 7,
9,  22, 24, 25, 29,96, 157, 180, 251.
W^esson, Benjamin, 186.
Westfield (ffield),  255, 256, 260, 263,
264, 266, 267, 268, 272, 275, 276,
278, 279.
West, Capt. ^'rancis, 23.
Indies, 182.
Medway (town of), 203.
Riding, Yorkshire, Eng., 161.
Scituate (village of), 119.
Wester Neck, 255, 257, 260, 264, 266,
267, 268, 269, 270, 274, 275, 277,
279,
 - 361 - 
344                     INDEX.
Weston, Eliphaz, 64, 302.
Dr. Ilervey E., sketch of, 204.
settlement, 144.
Simeon, 302.
Thomas, 3, 19, 20, 22.
(Capt.) Warren, 132, 149.
Weston'sColony, 3, 4, 6, 19, 20, 21, 22.
Company, 181.
people, expedition with the Plym-
outh folks, 21.
they hang a thief, 21.
W^eymouth and Braintree Institu-
tion for Savings, 149.
Mutual Fire  Insurance Com-
pany, 149.
Savings Bank, 149.
Turnpike, 146, 147.
England, 24, 25, 96, 144, 157, 158.
drug store, 205.
Historical Society, 186, 195.
files, 6.
publications, 11,  53, 184.
sketch of,  134.
Iron Company, 81, 144.
sketch of,  152.
Landing, 15, 49,  60,  73,  76, 89, 92,
112,  118, 121,  122, 123,  132, 135,
138,  140,  141,  142, 146, 147, 149,
150, 151, 154, 155, 290.
records, 9,  10, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 34
35,41,42,43,45,47. [See Town.]
schools [see Schools], 199,
(town of), on nearly every page.
Wheat, Lydia, 189.
Whelan, Edmund B., 242.
John H., 242.
Whipple, Gen., 220.
Whitcomb, John M., 242.
White, Widow Abigail (Keith, 186.
Abuer, 186.
A.S., 140.
Alethea, 186.
& Ambler, 203.
Amon, 302.
Asa, 18.5, 186.
Asa (Capt. Col.), 59, 60, 64, 71, 184,
285, 302,
Benjamin, 243, 302.
Benjamin E., 149, 291.
Calvin T., 243.
Charles H., 243.
Daniel, 302.
White,Ebenezer (Capt.), 127, 138, 185,
Edward, 184.
Francis E., 243.
Frederick R., 243.
Genealogy (Vinton's), 184.
Herbert, 243.
Henry, 243.
Hezekiah, 52.
J. Francis, 243.
James, 184, 243, 302.
Capt. James, 61,
John, 302.
John (Capt., Major), 77, 138.
Josiah, 133.
Luther, 302.
Martha, 169.
Mary Matilda, 201,
Mary (White, 184.
Nathaniel, 302.
Dr. Nathaniel, 53.
grant of land to, 48.
sketch of,  1 84.
Nehemiah, 302.
(Whit), Nicholas, 254, 272,
land of, 256.
Patrick, 243.
Eohert H., 243,
Robert S., 243.
Euth (Holbrook, 185, 186.
(Capt.) Samuel, 40.
arrests Sir Edmund Andros, 43.
Samuel, Jr., 302,
Sanford, 243.
Sarah (Baker, 184.
Sarah (Lovell, 184, 185,
Susan, 193.
Taraar, 186, 288.
Thomas, 41, 185, 186, 252, 257, 259,
261, 266, 269, 273, 274,  275,  280,
28'?, 284.
Is k1 of,  270.
Dea. Thomas, 184, 185.
Warren F., 243,
William, 243.
Whiting, Charles D., 248.
Harrison, 243.
Whitman, Abigail (Byram, 182.
David, 302.
Ensign, 282, 283.
Henry, 281.
John, 255, 260, 263,  264,  266,  272,
275, 284.
 - 362 - 
INDEX.                      345
Whitman, John, land of, 267.
Nehemiah, 302.
Theron W., 243.
Thomas, 182, 282, 283.
Whitman's Pond, 13, U, 27, 32, 34'
48, 144, 152, 280.
Whitmarsh  (Whitmarke,   Whit"
raarck). Alee, 248.
Ezra, 128, 286.
(Whitmarcke), James, 248.
(Whitmarsk), Jane, 248.
John, 38, 248,  254,  255,  263, 264'
268, 281, 282, 283.
John Q., 243.
Nicholas, 264, 268, 282, 283.
Nicholas,   Onesephorus  Richard,
land of, 264.
Onesephoris, 264, 268.
(Whitmarke), Onseph, 248.
Peter, 243.
Richard, 264, 269.
(Whytemarke), Richard, 248.
Samuel, 302.
Silence, 286.
Silence (Randall, 286.
Simon, 263, 268.
land of, 264.
Lieut. William, 52.
Whitney, Edwin, 243.
Rev. G. W., 121.
Whittemore, William, 243.
Whortleberry Pond, 14, 152.
Wilber, Charles C, 243.
Wilbraham Academy, 212.
Wild, Col. Edward A., 220.
John, 302.
Wilder, Abiel, 289.
Wilderness (battle of), 218.
campaign, 222.
Wildes, Capt. William, 287.
Wildey Lodge (I. 0. 0. F.), 141.
Willet, G. F., 243.
Williams, Anna, 179.
Anna (Crocker, 179.
Betsey, 179.
Charles S., 243.
Eugene S., 243.
Joseph Crocker, 179.
Eev. Simeon, 9, 109.
sketch of,  179.
Simeon, Jr., 179.
Sophia, 179.
Williams, Thomas, 179.
Williams' Hall, 123.
Williamson, Joseph, 243.
W^illis, Experience (Byram, 183.
John, 183.
Stephen R., 243.
Wilmington (ship), 169.
Wilson, Rev John, 160, 161.
Mary E., 210.
Wilts, county of, England, 162, 183.
Winch, Widow Priscilla Ford, 19 5,
287.
Winchester, "Va., 217.
Winslow, Joseph B., 243.
Rev. Josiah, 164,
Nathan F., 243.
Rev. Wilham C, 124.
Winslow's "Good News," 19.
"Relation," 21.
Winthrop, Elizabeth, 162.
Gov. (John), 6, 24, 25, 97, 162,
entertained at Wessaguscus, 25.
visits Plymouth, 25.
(Savage's), 25.
Wiswell, Rev. Ichabod, 164.
Woburn (town of), 212.
Wolcott, Rev. Calvin, 199.
Elizabeth Gardner, 199.
Wolfe (Gen.), 52.
Wollaston, Mount, 25, 26.
W^oman's  Christian   Temperance
Union, 142.
W^ompatuck Encampment (L O.
0. F.), 141.
Wood, John, 247.
preservation of, 32.
Woodcooke, John, 250.
W^ood's "New England  Prospect,"
25.
Woodward, Sylvester R., 243.
Worcester (city of), 206, 211.
Samuel Thomas, 132, 133.
Woren (Warren), Widow, 283.
Workhouse, 73, 77.
Worster, E. Frank, 243,
John, 281.
Wrentham (town of), 202.
Wright, C. Wesley, 243.
Henry, 243.
Eev. William C, 122.
William H., 243.
Wrightington, Judah, 243.
 - 363 - 
346                      INDEX.
W^yman (historian), 169.
Wyre, David, 128.
Xavier, St. Francis, college of, 211.
St. Prancis, parish of, 122.
Yale College, 204.
Yarmouth (town of), 158, 166.
York, Me., 158.
Yorkshire,  county  of,    England,
161.
Young, Benjamin M., 243.
Job, 243,
Young's"Chronicles of the Pilgrims,"
19, 25.
Point (Miss.), 222.
Zumbrota, Minn., 203.
 - 364 - 
 - 365 - 
 - 366 - 
 - 367 - 
 - 368 - 
 - 369 - 
 - 370 - 
 - 371 - 
1
I
 - 372 - 
HECKMAivr
'   N U E R Y,     in"
Bound-Tb-Please-
DEC00
N. MANCHP.QTCD lurM-...
 - 373 - 
 - 374 - 
