Cultural Landscape Report 
Adams National 
Historic Site 
Qyincy, Massachusetts 
Illustrated Site Chronology 
 - 1 - 
017f/ll 
Cultural Landscape Report 
Adams National 
Historic Site 
Qyincy, Massachusetts 
Illustrated Site Chronology 
by 
Katharine Lacy 
Historical Landscape Architect 
National Park Service 
CULTURAL  LANDSCAPE  PUBLICATION  NO.  IJ 
Olmsted Center for Landscape Preservation 
National Park Service 
Boston, Massachusetts 
October 1997 
 - 2 - 
This report is  part of the Cultural Landscape Publication Series produced by the Olmsted Center for Landscape 
Preservation. This series includes a variety of publications designed to provide information and guidance on 
landscape preservation to managers and other preservation professionals. The series editor is  Nora J.  Mitchell. 
The Olmsted Center for Landscape Preservation promotes the stewardship of significant landscapes through 
research, planning and sustainable preservation maintenance. Based at the Frederick Law Olmsted National 
Historic Site, the center perpetuates the tradition of the Olmsted firms and Frederick Law Olmsted Sr.'s lifelong 
commitment to people, parks and public spaces. 
Olmsted Center for Landscape Preservation 
99 Warren Street 
Brookline, MA 02146 
(617)  566-1689 
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 
Lacy,  Katharine,  1961-
Cultural landscape report, illustrated site chronology: Adams National Historic Site, Quincy, 
Massachusetts/prepared by Katharine Lacy. 
p.     cm. -     (Cultural landscape publication; no.  13) 
Includes bibliographical references. 
1. Adams National Historic Site (Quincy, Mass.)  2. Quincy (Mass.)-Buildings, structures, etc. 
3. Landscape-Massachusetts-Quincy-History. 4. Adams family. 
I.  Olmsted Center for Landscape Preservation (U.S.)  II. Title. III. Series. 
F74.Q71L33     1997                                                                                                           97-19723 
974.4'7-dc21                                                                                                          CIP 
Publication credits:  Information in this publication may be copied and used with the condition that full credit 
be given to the author and Olmsted Center for Landscape Preservation, National Park Service. Appropriate 
citations and bibliographic credits should be made for each use. 
Cover: Photograph of Old House from the Southwest,  1928. Courtesy of the Society for the Preservation of 
New England Antiquities. 
 - 3 - 
Contents 
List ofFigures 
Acknowledgments and Project Background 
Introduction 
zv 
vu 
vuz 
Site History 
Early Development and Vassall/Borland Period: 1625-1787                            1 
Historical Background and Summary of Changes 
Site Chronology 
John  Adams Period: 1787-1826                                                                             9 
Historical Background and Summary of Changes 
Site Chronology 
John Qyincy Adams Period: 1826-1848 
Historical Background and Summary of Changes 
Site Chronology 
21 
Charles Francis Adams Period: 1848-1886 
Historical Background and Summary of Changes 
Site Chronology 
31 
Brooks Adams Period: 1891-1927 
Historical Background and Summary of Changes 
Site Chronology 
47 
Adams Memorial Society Period: 1927-1946 
Historical Background and Summary of Changes 
Site Chronology 
55 
National Park Service Period: 1946 to Present 
Historical Background and Summary of Changes 
Site Chronology 
61 
Description ofExisting Conditions: 1996                                                          65 
Plans 
End Notes 
Bibliography 
68 
70 
76 
 - 4 - 
Figures 
FIGURE                                                                                                                              PAGE 
1.    William Tyng's 45-acre farm,  Braintree, Massachusetts,  1649.                                                  3 
By Ezekial Sargent, Quincy, Massachusetts.  Quincy Historical Society, Sargent 
MSS Collection, "Land Formerly ofWilliam Tyng". 
2.    ''Adams Seat in Quincy'',  1787.                                                                                                     8 
A period plan of the Adams property prepared c.1966. Wilhelmina Harris, 
Furnishings Report,  ofthe Old House,   Adams National Historic Site (NHS), 
Quincy, Massachusetts,  1966-68, Vol.  9, #548, p.  820. 
3.    "Braintree",  1798.                                                                                                                            16 
By E.  Malcolm, New York,  New York. Adams NHS. Also in Helen Nelson 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings Shown on Historic Base Map ofthe 
Adams National Historic Site,  196 5, fig.  1. 
4.    "Sketch of the Mansion",  1820.                                                                                                     18 
By Abigail Smith Adams. Adams NHS. Also in Harris, Furnishings Report, 
Vol.  2, #40, p.  178. 
5.    "Seat of Hon. John Adams",  1820-1829.                                                                                     19 
By George Washington Beale. Adams NHS. Also in Harris, Furnishings 
Report, Vol.  2, #41, p.  179. 
6.    "Residence ofJohn Adams and John Quincy Adams",  1823.                                                   20 
By Eliza Susan Quincy. Adams NHS. Also in Harris, Furnishings Report, 
p.  180. 
7.    "Plan of the Adams Place",  1826.                                                                                                 20 
By Matthew Worthington, Surveyor.  Reproduction at Quincy Historical 
Society. 
8.    "The Adams Seat in Quincy'',  1823.                                                                                            24 
By Mrs. G.W. Whitney. Adams NHS. Also in Harris, Furnishings Report, 
Vol.  9, p.  551. 
9.    ''A View of the Residence of Late President Adams at Quincy,                                                 28 
Massachusetts",  183 7. 
By Sarah Apthorp. Adams NHS. Also in Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9, 
and Charles E.  Peterson, Historic Structures Report,  Part l· The Adams Mansion, 
Adams National Historic Site,  1963, fig.  7. 
10.  "Residence ofJohn Quincy Adams, Quincy, Massachusetts",  1846.                                        30 
Woodcut, artist unknown. Adams NHS. Also in Harris, Furnishings Report, 
Vol.  3, #45, p.  185. 
lV 
~ 
 - 5 - 
FIGURE                                                                                                                              PAGE 
11. "Daguerreotype of Old House",  1849. 
By Mr. Whipple, Boston, Massachusetts. Adams NHS, Bureau, Third Floor, 
1869 Addition. Also in Harris, Furnishings Report,  Vol.  9.  Ibid, Vol.  3, #46. 
34 
12. Plan of Charles Frances Adams's  Homestead,  1849. 
Surveyed by S.  D. Eaton. The Office of Earnest W.  Branch, Civil Engineer,  11 
Adams Building, Quincy, Massachusetts. Also in Peterson, Historic Structures 
Report,  1963. Ill. 3. 
35 
13. A portion of the Eaton survey,  1849. 
Prepared by Earnest W.  Branch, Civil Engineer,  11  Adams Building, Quincy, 
Massachusetts. Also in Helen L.  Nelson, Report on the Property on the South 
Side ofAdams Street,   1962. 
36 
14. "View in Oils",  1849. 
By Frankenstein. Harris, Furnishings Report,   Vol.  9. 
37 
15. "View of the Adams Mansion at Quincy'',  18 5 2. 
Engraving by Mallory.  Gleason's Pictorial Drawing Room  Companion, Volume 3, 
1852, p.120. Also in Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  3. 
38 
16. "Changes Recommended for the Old House Grounds",  1865. 
By John Quincy Adams II. Adams Manuscripts, Massachusetts Historical 
Society. Also in Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  3, #48, p.188. 
40 
17. Photograph of the front of the Old House,  1870. 
Adams NHS. Also in Harris, Furnishings Report,  Vol.  9, #34, p.  838. 
41 
18. Photograph ofAdams mansion, c.1880. 
Quincy Historical Society. 
44 
19. Photograph of Old House,  1882. 
By Baldwin Coolidge,  154 Tremont Street, Boston. Society for the 
Preservation of New England Antiquities, #466-A. 
44 
20. View of the flood of 1886. 
Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9, p.  841. 
45 
21. View of Old House taken from field across Adams Street,  1887. 
Quincy Historical Society. 
45 
22. Photograph of Old House taken from southwest corner of property,  1889. 
Adams NHS. Also in Skeen, Documentary History ofthe Old House,  fig.  10. 
46 
23. Map details of the Adams estate and surrounding properties,  1897. 
Atlas of Norfolk County, Quincy Historical Society. 
49 
24. Adams garden and library,  1903. 
Adams NHS. Also in Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings Shown on 
Historic Base Map ofthe Adams National Historic Site,  1965, fig.  11. 
50 
V 
~ 
 - 6 - 
FIGURE                                                                                                                               PAGE 
25. Plan ofland in the City of Quincy,  1905. 
Quincy Historical Society. 
51 
26. Atlas of the City of Quincy,  1907. 
Compiled by Earnest W  Branch. Quincy Historical Society. 
52 
27. "Old House, East Lawn, Early Spring,"  1915. 
Adams NHS. Also in Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  I, #28, p.  123. 
53 
28. View of the library in winter,  1920. 
Thomas Crane Memorial Library, Quincy, Massachusetts. 
53 
29-32.   Four photographs of the garden at the Old House, c.  1920s. 
Adams NHS. 
56 
33. Photograph of Old House without eastern portico,  1928. 
A.  F.  Shurrocks Photography Co. Society for the Preservation of New England 
Antiquities, #100-18-A. 
57 
34. Photograph of Old House from the southwest,  1928. 
A.  F.  Shurrocks Photography Co. Society for the Preservation of New England 
Antiquities, #100-19-A. 
57 
3 5. A Walk in the Flower Garden, Adams Mansion, Quincy, Massachusetts, 
1928." 
Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities, #16772-A. 
58 
36. A portion of the plan of Furnace Brook Parkway, c.  1945. 
Metropolitan District Commission, Boston. 
59 
37. HABS drawing ofAdams site, Quincy,  1936. 
Historic American Building Survey, Works Progress Administration, Official 
Project No. 265-6907.  1936. 
59 
38. HABS drawing ofAdams Flower Garden,  1941. 
Adams NHS (Planting Plan)  United States Department of the Interior, 
National Park Service, Office of History and Historic Architecture. 
60 
39. Brooks Adams's garage,  1947. 
Adams NHS. Also in Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  fig.  12. 
62 
40. Two photographs ofAdams garden,  1959. 
Adams NHS. 
63 
41. Period Plan,  1927                                                                                                                            68 
42. Existing Conditions, 1996                                                                                                      69 
 - 7 - 
Acknowledgtnentsand 
Project Background 
FROM THE AUTHOR 
I would like to thank Nora Mitchell, Director, as well 
as  Lauren Meier and Margaret Coffin of the Olmsted 
Center for Landscape Preservation for reviewing 
drafts of this report. I am also grateful to the staff at 
the Adams National Historic Site, particularly 
Marianne Peak, Superintendent,  Caroline Keinath, 
Chief of Interpretation, and Judy McAllister,  Curator, 
for their patience, support and assistance with this 
project. Thanks are also due to the staff at the Quincy 
Historical Society and the Society for the Preservation 
of New England Antiquities for the use of their 
archives and for assistance with additional research. 
The text was prepared by the Olmsted Center for 
Landscape Preservation.  Design, editing and produc­
tion of the report was accomplished by Beth 
McKinney Graphic Design and Shary Page Berg with 
Goody Clancy & Associates.  Finally, I am indebted to 
the authors of the many fine reports from which the 
information in this Cultural Landscape Report was 
drawn. While credit is  fully owed to them for 
thorough and accurate research, all errors are certainly 
my own. 
-Katharine Lacy 
BACKGROUND 
The cultural landscape at the Adams Old House has 
long been recognized as  a significant historic resource. 
Over the past half century several reports have been 
written which address the history of the Old House, 
portions of the grounds, and individual features and 
structures within the park boundaries. Additionally, 
there is  a substantial collection of historic photo­
graphs and images of the grounds at the Adams Old 
House available at the park and other locations. 
However, there was no single document which 
comprehensively addressed the evolution of this 
significant landscape. Consequently, in the planning 
phases of this project, staff from Adams NHS and the 
Olmsted Center for Landscape Preservation deter­
mined that to the fullest extent possible research 
should done using existing secondary sources available 
at the park and Boston Support Office Library, with 
primary research limited to the study and interpreta­
tion of pertinent graphic images. The intent of this 
effort was  to provide a thorough review of the 
substantive body of existing material, while culling 
out any information pertaining to the evolution of 
the landscape. 
Rather than prepare a narrative site history, 
it was decided that an annotated, illustrated chronol­
ogy would be more efficient to prepare and would 
serve as  a more versatile tool for park staff, including 
interpreters, curators, groundskeepers and managers. 
A graphic designer was hired to develop a format and 
guidelines for this new type of document. This 
Illustrated Site Chronology for the Adams Old House 
is  the first document of its type in the Olmsted 
Center's Cultural Landscape Series.  It should prove 
both useful and informative to all who have an 
interest in the landscape at the Old House. 
Vll 
~ 
 - 8 - 
Introduction 
The Adams National Historic Site in Quincy, 
Massachusetts, was established on December 9,  1946 
through a generous gift from the Adams family to the 
people of the United States. The park was specifically 
created to celebrate the memory of the four genera­
tions ofAdamses who occupied the site from  1787-
1927 and their significant contributions to politics, 
literature and the development of the nation. At the 
same time, the Adamses recognized the opportunity 
presented by the property to teach the public about 
the everyday life of an American family over a period 
of nearly a century and a half.  Because the site was 
occupied by the same family for so long, it reflects an 
accumulation of changing attitudes towards a home 
and its grounds. Consequently, the deed establishing 
the site specified that no changes should be made to 
the Old House-its contents, dependencies or 
grounds-which should be maintained as  they were at 
the end of Brooks Adams' lifetime in  1927. 
Since the park's establishment, efforts have 
been made to document the Old House, its major 
outbuildings and tremendous museum collection. 
However, there was no single document which 
comprehensively addressed the evolution of the 
landscape as  a whole. This Cultural Landscape 
Report:  Illustrated Site Chronology is  intended to 
address that need by tracing the evolution of the 
landscape at the Old House from its development as 
farmland in the 17th century, through its ownership 
by four generations of the Adams family,  to its 
establishment as  a National Historic Site.  Further, as 
required by NPS policies, it is  intended that this 
document will serve as  the basis for a Cultural 
Landscape Treatment Plan, and for developing a 
strategy for the on-going maintenance of this impor­
tant resource. 
As  this document illustrates, each of the 
Adamses had a unique relationship to the grounds and 
left his or her distinguishing mark on the landscape of 
the Old House. At the same time, events beyond the 
control of the Adams family,  including the growth of 
the City of Quincy, have had an equally important 
impact on the evolution of this site. The spacious 
grounds of the Adams Old House, once surrounded 
by the family's extensive farmland,  now stand out as  a 
tranquil enclave surrounded by busy thoroughfares 
and urban development. The approach taken by each 
generation ofAdamses towards this property reflected 
its broader ideals about the appropriate appearance 
and treatment of landscapes in general-even those 
far beyond their own stone walls. While some 
generations had a greater impact than others, signifi­
cant landscape features,  such as walls, an orchard, 
trees, a pond or a single rose,  remain from each period 
in the site's history.  Over time, efforts to categorize the 
landscape at the Old House as  reflecting a single 
period have never succeeded.  Instead, as  envisioned by 
the Adamses in their gift, the grounds at the Old 
House provide a unique opportunity to learn about 
nearly 150 years of changing attitudes towards the 
landscape. 
V111 
~ 
 - 9 - 
Early Development and 
Vassall/Borland Period 
1625-1787 
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 
AND SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This portion of the site chronology for the Adams 
Old House property covers the period from its 
inclusion as  part of Quincy's earliest land grants 
through its ownership by the Vassall family from 
1730-1787.1 
The earliest European settlement of Quincy, 
albeit temporary, occurred in 1625 when Captain 
Wollaston arrived in Quincy Bay from an unknown 
port in England. It appears that Wollaston, about 
whom little is  known, was not seeking to settle the 
region and left the area following the establishment of 
a trading post. However, a portion of his company 
remained in the area and the Wollastons were later 
recorded as  residents of Braintree.2 
In 1634, the Mount Wollaston region, 
which included Braintree and what would become 
Quincy, Holbrook and Randolph, was annexed by the 
City of Boston in an effort to provide additional room 
for the establishment of large estates. The earliest land 
grants, including 600 or more acres, were made to 
Boston residents Edmund Quincy, Atherton 
Houghton, John Wilson and William Coddington; 
later allotments were based on a formula of 4 acres per 
family member. The current site of the Adams 
National Historic Site was included within the great 
Quincy-Coddington Grant of 1635. 
A commercial center was developed in 1640 
in the area that is  now Quincy Center, which was 
included within the bounds of the newly established 
First Parish of Braintree. A meeting house near the 
intersection of Hancock Street and the Town Brook 
was built in  1640 and a second one was built by 
1666. By  1640 a town burial ground had also been 
established at Hancock Cemetery, across from what 
was  then the Training Field and is  now the site of the 
First Parish Church. The town's first school house, 
built in the 1650s, was adjacent to the meeting house, 
and a tavern was located on the west side of Hancock 
Street. 
Native trails, delineated by the end of the 
17th century, served as  the town's primary inland 
transportation routes. Settlement along these early 
routes consisted primarily of farmsteads, of which the 
John Quincy Adams Birthplace (1663) and the John 
Adams Birthplace (1681) are two extant examples. 
The Beale and Adams sites were later developed along 
the most significant transportation route, the Boston­
Plymouth Highway, which crossed the Furnace and 
Town Brooks. Now designated Adams, Hancock, 
School and Franklin Streets, this road served as  the 
primary link between Boston and the coastal commu­
nities to the south. 
In 1708 Braintree was divided into the 
North Precinct (now Quincy) and the South Precinct 
(now Braintree, Holbrook and Randolph). Though 
technically part of the same town, each precinct had 
separate churches and meeting houses;  the northern 
portion also became more closely associated with 
Boston. In 1792 the North Precinct of Braintree was 
incorporated into the Town of Quincy. 
During the 17th and 18th centuries Quincy 
was essentially a rural village.  Families of wealth and 
refinement, including the Quincys, Hancocks, 
Cranches, Adamses and Beales, had year-round or 
summer estates in the town and were closely linked 
through social and political connections. Though it 
was not until the  19th century that Quincy experi­
enced true industrial development, farming,  iron 
extraction, quarrying, shipbuilding and whaling were 
1 
~ 
 - 10 - 
pursued on a small scale, and a town gristmill and a 
few small tanneries were located on the Town Brook 
by 1700. The area near the intersection of Blacks 
Creek, Furnace Brook and Adams Street was  a 
popular location for most of Quincy's 18th and 19th 
century estates. The Vassall Mansion (Adams Old 
House,  1732) and Josiah Quincy House (1770) were 
two of the earliest estates built in this area. 
As  detailed in the following chronology, the 
parcel of land which would later be the site of the 
Adams Old House passed through a series of owners 
from the time that it was  included in the Coddington 
Grant of 1635 until its acquisition by John Adams in 
1787. During the 1600s and early 1700s it appears 
that the land was  used primarily for farmland. 
Records from  1717 regarding the sale of the property 
are the earliest to indicate the presence of a dwelling 
on the site.  From 1730 until 1787 the property was 
owned by Major Leonard Vassall,  a prosperous 
merchant from Boston. 
Under the ownership of the Vassall/Borland 
family,  the landscape immediately around the Old 
House evolved from what appears to have been a 
simple farmyard to the grounds of a prosperous 
residential estate. Indeed, many of the fundamental 
characteristics of the landscape at the Old House were 
established during the Vassall ownership. The Vassall 
Mansion was constructed in its current location by 
1732 (perhaps incorporating portions of a house built 
as  early as  1717). The Old Road to Boston (later 
Adams Street) existed by the end of the 17th century, 
forming the southern boundary of the site and thus 
establishing the relationship of the house and the 
road.  By 1737, Leonard Vassall's will describes the 
property as  including a garden and orchard, revealing 
that the location of the formal garden was to the west 
of the house, and confirming that the orchard was to 
the north. At the western end of the garden stood a 
summer house, which apparently fell  into ruin soon 
after the Adamses acquired the property.3    When John 
Adams purchased the Old House property in 1787 
the deed of sale also lists a barn, which appears to 
have stood east of the house, and a complex outbuild­
ing to the north made up of three distinct sections, 
including a wash house, woodshed and office room. 
It is  difficult to determine what constituted 
the Old House property in the period prior to  1787. 
Deeds of sale for the property prior to its acquisition 
by the Adamses in 1787 describe it as  including a 
house lot of 6 to  12 acres with associated farmland of 
45 to 70 acres extending north over Furnace Brook 
and south across Adams Street to what is  now 
Presidents Hill. At the time that John Adams pur­
chased the property in 1787 the house lot was 
approximately 7.5 acres, with an additional 68 acres 
of farmland. A survey prepared in 1849 claims to 
show part of the land purchased by John Adams, but 
does not show the full extent of the property (fig.  14). 
Still less is  known about the appearance of 
the associated farmland or any specific changes 
wrought on this outlying land prior to its ownership 
by the Adamses. A conjectural period plan showing 
conditions on the site in 1787 (fig.  2) suggests that 
the land north of the house included fields and a 
meadow. A journal entry by John Adams in 1769, 
prior to his purchase of the property, noted that the 
land south ofAdams Street, known as  Stony Field 
Hill, was planted with corn and fruit. Aside from 
these few kernels of information, knowledge of the 
extent and appearance of outlying lands associated 
with the Old House is  limited and further study is 
certainly warranted. 
2 
~ 
 - 11 - 
SITE CHRONOLOGY UP TO 1787 
1639-41                          A large portion of the Coddington property was  purchased by a Boston merchant 
named William Tyng, who divided the property into two farms. 4 
FIGURE I 
Originally part of the 
Coddington-Quincy Grant 
of 1635, this land is  now 
in the center of the City of 
Quincy. The northernmost 
10 acres of this farm 
(shown here as  Salter's farm) 
became Nathaniel Spear's 
homestead in the early 
1700s and subsequently 
passed to Leonard Vassall. 
The dashed rectangle 
illustrates the approximate 
location of the Old House. 
Drawing prepared by 
Ezekial Sargent,  1957. 
E2.J~H1•'-   ~~•e"'r 
"'J..AN1>   rt1111~1,!fM(  '1ft 
~IIJ url'f  ,'frl,tl." ·p.13 
G)u..>'14,:'1   tle~Tc, oEt • C4'­
~--•~ l..,.,!-&I) 
WILLIAM TYNG's 45-ACRE FARM,  BRAINTREE,  MASSACHUSETTS, 1649. 
3 
~ 
 - 12 - 
1640                               Mount Wollaston was incorporated as  a town under the name of Braintree. 
1647                               William Tyng leased a section of 45 acres to John Gurney for ten years. According 
to the records left by Ezekiel Sargent of Quincy, the northern portion of the 
Gurney farm was later the site of the Adams property.5 
1653                                William Tyng died January 10. The inventory of his estate lists "45 acres 
ofland, upland and marsh in the possession ofJohn Gurney."6 
1657                               Gurney continued to lease the farm from Tyng's daughters, Bethia and Mercy until 
1662.7 
1662-1710                      There is  no available documentation of ownership of the Old House property 
during this period. Gurney moved away from Braintree and apparently abandoned 
the farm since the inventory taken at his death showed no land holdings. 8 
1710                               The property on which the Adams Old House was later located was listed in the 
ownership of Nathaniel Spear, a cooper of Braintree. 
1717                                Nathaniel Spear sold to Thomas Crosby, also of Braintree, several tracts of land 
including the Old House property:  "one being the Homestead containing about 
ten acres be it more or less  through which the country road runs."  This property 
included a dwelling house, barn and corn house. 9  Parts of this dwelling house may 
be hidden inside the present Adams mansion. 10 
1719                                Thomas Crosby added one acre on the eastern boundary of the property and five 
acres on the northern boundary. 11 
1727                               Major Leonard Vassall  (who would later purchase the Old House property) bought 
a city lot on Seven-Starr Lane (now Summer Street)  in Boston and built a substan­
tial frame house. 
1730                               Thomas Crosby, an innkeeper, 12  sold the 10-acre Old House tract to Leonard 
Vassall,  Esq., a sugar planter from Jamaica who was living in Boston at that time. 
Vassall's deed described the land north of the road as  including 11.5 acres,  and the 
parcel south of the road as  including 5.5 acres. 13 
4 
~ 
 - 13 - 
1731                                The date commonly assigned to the construction of the Vassall mansion (Adams 
Old House), because it was in this year that Vassall was granted his petition to the 
Town Selectmen for moving the Country Road further from his house. No 
architect has yet been identified as  having designed the house.  However,  the house 
bears a strong resemblance to the Vassall House on Summer Street in Boston. 14    It 
is  not known exactly how much time Vassall spent at his house in Braintree. Vassall 
continued to own his house in Boston, along with numerous other tracts of 
property in Braintree, until his death in 1737. 
1733                                Vassall's first wife,  Ruth Gale, died in Boston. 
1734                               Leonard Vassall married again to Phoebe Penhallow Gross. 
1737                               Leonard Vassall died.  His will left to his wife, Phoebe, the "use, possession and 
improvement of my dwelling house, orchard and gardens in Braintree ... consist­
ing of 60 acres" 15  on the condition that she remain an Episcopalian and never 
remarry. According to Henry Adams, the Vassall's food was prepared in a separate 
building behind the house, which also provided quarters for the slaves.  However, 
the Vassall will provides no record of this or any other outbuilding on the property. 
1738                                Phoebe Vassall married Dr. Thomas Graves of Charlestown. By remarrying, Phoebe 
lost title to the Braintree estate and it passed to her daughter, Anna, in trust until 
she married. 
1749                                On February 20 Anna Vassall married John Borland and inherited the house. The 
document transferring the property lists it as  including a house with 93 acres of 
land and servants Pompey and Vidalia. 16    Little is  known about the Borland period 
at the Old House. 
c.1750                             A small, 3-story wing was added to the north of the Old House. 
c.1760                             The kitchen at the Old House was expanded. 
1761                                A statement of taxable property for the estate ofJohn Borland of Braintree lists the 
house and garden, with 8 acres of pasture and 20 acres of grass,  and other property 
rented out. 17 
1765                                The Borlands purchased the Apthorp House on Brattle Street in Cambridge and 
put the house in Quincy up for rent. During the revolutionary period the Borlands 
identified themselves as  English Loyalists. 
5 
~ 
 - 14 - 
1769                               August:  "Stonyfield Hill,  (the name at the time for Presidents Hill) covered with 
1775 
1776 
1777 
corn and fruits." 
John Borland died. With the outbreak of the Revolutionary War, Anna Borland 
fled to England. 18    At that time the Borlands Braintree property was in the 
possession ofJohn Heyward, who claimed to be a tenant by agreement with John 
Borland.19    The house was also  used as  temporary quarters for refugees fleeing from 
the British in Boston.20 
June 21: The first public resolve relating to absentee properties in Massachusetts 
was passed by the Provincial Assembly giving the Committees of Correspondence 
of Safety the authority to take possession and improve estates abandoned by 
Loyalists within their towns. 
The Committees for Correspondence for each town were authorized to lease 
absentee estates. 
The Massachusetts State Legislature made further provisions for an agent to 
administer each abandoned Loyalist estate and give an accounting to the Probate 
Court. 
1778 
1779 
The Vassall mansion was leased to Colonel Stephen Miller. 
The Vassall mansion was leased to Gaius Thayer who departed unexpectedly 
during the year.  Concerned with the condition of the unattended Braintree house, 
the local Committee of Correspondence and Town Selectmen took an inventory of 
the property and advertised a public sale. That same year,  Richard Cranch, John 
Adams's brother in-law and a representative from the legislature in Braintree, was 
appointed agent for the estate ofJohn Borland. Cranch's inventory of the estate 
included ''A dwelling house, outhouses, stables, garden and farm situate (sic)  in 
Brantry (sic)  containing about 45 acres of pasture, tillage mow and plowland. "21 
1780                                April 28: A public auction was held to lease the Borland estate. An advertisement 
for the auction in the Boston Independent Chronicle listed the Borland property as: 
A  very genteel dwelling house,  barn and coach house with 
garden, planted with a great variety offruit trees,  an 
orchard and about 40 acres ofland lately belonging to john 
Borland,  Esq.  deceased  This agreeable seat is pleasantly 
situated in the Town  ofBraintree about ten  miles from 
Boston,  on the great Road to Plymouth. 22 
6 
~ 
 - 15 - 
1780-82                          The Old House property was leased by Edward Church, who had recently 
purchased the adjacent property where the Beale estate is  now located. 
1783                                At the end of the Revolutionary War, Anna Borland returned to Boston and 
recovered her Braintree estate. 
November: The Old House property was sold by Anna's son, John Vassall Borland, 
to Royall Tyler, a Braintree lawyer, for $1,000.23    Tyler was at that time courting the 
only daughter ofJohn and Abigail Adams-Abigail, known as  Nabby. There is  no 
deed recorded for the Borland sale to Royall Tyler since the Borlands apparently 
did not have clear title to the house themselves.  Further, Tyler did not actually 
occupy the estate which was at that time being leased again by Gaius Thayer. 
December 27: Abigail Adams wrote to her husband John about Tyler's purchase of 
the Borland property: 
Mrs.  Borland since her return to America has sold her House 
and Farm in this town.  Mr.  Tyler has made the purchase at 
£1,000 lawful money.  The estate chiefly came by her,  none 
ofit was ever confiscated; it is considered in Town as a good 
bargain.  There is about 108 in the whole,  50 ofwhich is 
fine wood land the garden contains the best collection of 
fruit in town. 24 
1784-86                          Gaius Thayer remained in the house for another two years,  and Tyler was unable to 
move in.  In a letter to John Adams, written August 27, Royall Tyler explained his 
complex ownership arrangement: 
This estate is at present encumbered by a mortgage and lease 
from the Commonwealth,  but the legislature is about passing 
an act,  enabling the Absentees to  take possession  oftheir 
estates by paying the Consideration for the Mortgage to  the 
lessees.  Thayer,  the present Occupier,  under the Common­
wealth Lease and Mortgages,  is will to  receive and Borland 
to pay this,  so  that I expect to  be in actual possession 
immediately.  Mr.  Thayer,  sensible ofthis, permits me now to 
enterfor the purpose ofrepairing. 25 
1786                                Royall Tyler occupied the Old House. During his brief residence he attempted to 
make some improvements to  the house, which had apparently been abused by 
previous tenants.26  Records indicate that Tyler spent £100 on materials and repairs 
before abandoning the property. Tyler also erected a frame building behind the 
house for an office, and a windmill, the location of which is  unknown.27 These 
projects caused him to go into debt. 
7 
~ 
 - 16 - 
September 28: Mary Cranch wrote to Abigail Adams: 
... you would be supriz'd (sic)  to hear how much he owes to 
laborers in this Town  above £200 I am told-besides this 
your brother said this day that his farm is mortgag'd (sic) for 
600 more-ifthis is true he cannot hold out long at the rate 
he lives. 28 
1787                                  In the spring of 1787 Royall Tyler forfeited the farm  back to the Borlands, to 
whom he still owed 600 pounds, and moved to New York to become a playwright. 
ADAMS   SEAT   lN   QUINCY 
"ADAMS  SEAT  IN  QUINCY" 1787-
FIGURE 2 
Schematic period plan represents a conjectural view of the 
property at the time of its  transfer from  the Vassalls  to the 
Adamses. Shows relative locations of the Old House, farm 
house,  upper garden, summer house, field and meadow areas, 
Furnace Brook and the road co  Boston (lacer Adams Street). 
Drawing prepared in  1966. 
 - 17 - 
John Adams Period 
1787-1826 
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 
AND SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This portion of the site chronology traces the changes 
made to the property under the ownership ofJohn 
and Abigail Adams. 
The Old House, as  it came to be known, was 
first acquired by the Adams family in  1787. At that 
time John and Abigail Adams were preparing to 
return to Quincy after many years abroad in diplo­
matic posts. In April of that year, Abigail's sister, Mary 
Cranch, wrote to John and Abigail notifying them 
that the former Borland estate was for sale,  urging 
them to buy it.  Both John and Abigail were well 
acquainted with the property, having lived for many 
years not far from the Borland place in the salt box 
cottage at Penn's Hill, adjacent to the birthplace of 
John Adams. The Vassall-Borland estate, including a 
house, gardens and farm,  would provide the Adamses 
a home with appropriate space and style for a family 
of their means. With the assistance ofAbigail's uncle, 
Cotton Tufts,  the Adamses purchased the Vassall­
Borland property from their post in London for £600 
on September 26,  1787. In the spring of 1788 they 
sailed home, arriving in Boston in mid-June. 
Research indicates that at the time of 
purchase the Old House was a three-story frame 
building with brick-end chimney walls and a gambrel 
roof. The 1787 property deed also lists a barn to the 
east of the house.  In addition, there was a complex 
outbuilding, called the outhouse, which measured 54 
feet long and consisted of three distinct sections. The 
wash house occupied the western end next to the 
garden, the woodshed took up the center section and 
an office room occupied the section at the east end. 
There was a clothes yard near the wash house. 
A large formal garden, located on the west 
side of the house, consisted of three rectangular beds 
filled with a variety of fruit trees,  including apple, 
pear,  plum, peach and grape vines, which were 
interspersed with cowslip, daffey and columbine. 29 
The beds were surrounded by gravel paths and lined 
with boxwood hedges. A summer house, which fell 
into ruin soon after the Adamses acquired the 
property, stood at the western end of the garden. 30 
Initially, both John and Abigail found 
themselves somewhat disappointed at the size and 
appearance of their new home. Shortly after their 
arrival in Braintree, Abigail wrote to her daughter 
Abigail (Mrs. William Stephens Smith): 
But we have come to a house not half 
repaired,  and I own  myselfmost sadly 
disappointed.  In height and breadth,  itfeels 
like a wren's house.  Ever since I came,  we 
have had such a swarm ofcarpenters, 
masons, farmers,  as have almost distracted 
me-everything all at once with miserable 
assistance. 31 
Six months after their arrival in Braintree, John 
Adams provided a friend in England with a somewhat 
more upbeat report: 
I found my estate,  in consequence oftotal 
neglect and inattention on  my part for 14 
years,  was falling to decay and in so  much 
disorder that as to  require my whole 
attention to  repair it.  I have a great mind to 
essay a description ofit.  It is not large,  in the 
first place.  It is but the farm ofa patriot. 
But there are in it two or three spots from 
whence are to  be seen  the most beautifol 
prospects in the world.32 
 - 18 - 
With characteristic vigor, John and Abigail 
wrought significant change on both the house and the 
surrounding grounds during the first years of their 
ownership. Many of the earlier projects undertaken 
during the Adams' first decade in the house focused 
on improving the grounds for farming,  including 
clearing and draining the meadow north of the house, 
establishing a large vegetable garden, and constructing 
a corn crib on the east lawn. A visitor to Braintree in 
1788 noted: ''At that time, forgetful of his books and 
royal courts, Mr. Adams was devoting himself to his 
farm."33  Each day hired men from the surrounding 
towns would work the land.  By the end of his first 
year in  residence, John had a sizable herd of cattle.  In 
all likelihood this herd grazed the larger expanse of the 
property, located on the south side of what is  now 
Adams Street. 
In  1789 John Adams began an eight-year 
term as  the first vice president of the United States. 
While spending a considerable amount of time at the 
Capitol (in Philadelphia and then New York) John 
returned to Quincy as  frequently as  possible. Indeed, 
they briefly considered putting John's brother, Peter 
Adams, in charge of the farm so that Abigail could 
join John while he was away on business. However, 
Peter claimed that it was too difficult to please John, 
so Abigail remained in charge of the maintenance and 
improvement of the property. 34 
During John Adams's term as  president 
( 1797-1801) the Adamses undertook a series of more 
visible and dramatic changes, including: the replace­
ment of the Borland barn with a new barn and stable; 
the renovation of the old farmhouse to house John 
Adams's library among other things; and the construc­
tion of a cider house, woodshed and barn to the east 
of the house. With the completion of the various farm 
buildings, the area to the east of the house served as  a 
barnyard bounded by the woodshed, corncrib and 
cider barn on the north, and the barn and stable to 
the south. Also during this period the Old House was 
nearly doubled in size through the construction of the 
spacious east wing with a new entry and extensive 
alterations in the western or kitchen ell. 
Following President Adams's defeat in his 
bid for re-election he returned to Quincy as  a 
permanent resident.  Between 1801  and his death in 
1826 few major changes occurred on the Old House 
grounds, and no new structures were built. One 
exception was the construction, around 1821, of the 
pond in the meadow north of the house.  However, 
throughout this period the Adamses continued to 
work on and expand their farming operation as well as 
the gardens immediately around the house. 
John Adams actively acquired more land, 
both contiguous to the Old House lot, across Adams 
Street on what is  now Presidents Hill to the south, 
and in other parts of Quincy.  In 1799 John Adams's 
"homeplace" was assessed as  including 8.5 acres to the 
north of the road and 99 acres to the south. Unfortu­
nately,  no clear map exists showing the Adams' 
holdings in the immediate vicinity of the Old House. 
While at the time this property was  used for farming, 
it would come to represent for the Adamses a sizable 
investment in real estate. A few months prior to John 
Adams's death in 1826 the road that would later be 
called Presidents Lane was constructed through the 
portion of the property south ofAdams Street, thus 
opening up this area for future development. 
Compared with Jefferson's Monticello, or 
Washington's Mount Vernon, the Adams property was 
truly humble in size and appearance.  Both Jefferson, 
and to a slightly lesser degree, Washington, had been 
influenced by European garden design, and referred to 
English gardening "experts" such as  Loudon, Whately 
and Langely in the development of their Virginia 
estates. John Adams on the other hand was little 
impressed by the English landscape school.35  While on 
a tour of English country seats with Thomas Jefferson 
in April  1786, John Adams wrote, "It will be long, I 
hope, before ridings, parks, pleasure grounds, gardens 
and ornamented farms grow so much in fashion in 
America." He was further dismayed by the prevalence 
of absentee gentlemen farmers in Britain and on the 
continent; much to his chagrin his own circumstances 
would later require that he join their ranks. 
 - 19 - 
John Adams's passion for farming was very 
much in line with the sentiment prevalent among the 
Founding Fathers that the independent farmer 
personified the true republican. As  one historian 
noted, "In acquiring country residences,  the wealthy 
governing elite advertised its adherence to 'rural' 
qualities:  to moderation, simplicity and stability ..."36 
However, Adams's love of farming was more than just 
a passing interest; he purchased the farm in Braintree 
because he truly intended to farm. As a young man he 
had prepared a small book called ''A Commonplace 
Book ofAgriculture" in which he set down a long list 
of forest and fruit trees,  berry bushes, cereal grains, 
vegetables, grasses, weeds,  poultry and farm utensils.37 
He was a charter member of the Massachusetts 
Society for Promoting Agriculture, founded in 1792, 
and he served as  president of that group from  1805 to 
1813.38  Throughout his political career his ambition 
was tempered by a longing for the pastoral life:  "Let 
me have my farm,  my family,  and my Goose Quil, 
and all  the Honours and Offices this world can 
bestow may go to those who deserve them better."39 
John Adams's conservative approach to the 
development of his Braintree farm most likely was  not 
feigned modesty,  but instead a deeply traditional 
approach to the landscape routed in the values of 18th 
century New England.  Despite his world-wide travels, 
John Adams was very much a product of his upbring­
ing in a small town south of Boston. A 20th century 
historian described the Quincy ofJohn Adams's era: 
Wealth andpopulation increased slowly. 
With vessels ofthe same build,  they fished 
the familiar seas;  with similar utensils,  they 
cultivated the same fields.  Dwelling in 
houses built on the identical plan,  they 
preserved the old domestic and social 
customs.  The outer world made itselfl ittle 
felt in the remote village community,  and the 
village community in no  way influenced the 
outer world.  The  Quincy of1830 was the 
Old Braintree of1640, a little more thickly 
settled and a little more prosperous. 40 
While the aesthetics of English and European garden 
design were adopted by prosperous and influential 
Americans in many parts of the country, the Adamses 
stuck tightly to traditional New England standards of 
spatial beauty, whereby  ''A beautiful farm was a farm 
with a well-designed and well-built house and barn, 
tight fences,  carefully tilled fields,  pruned orchards, 
and a well-managed woodlot, all crisply clear of any 
wilderness interruption."41  And, in fact, with its 
enclosed front yard, herb and flower gardens close to 
the house and vegetable gardens and orchards to the 
rear,  the Old House landscape at the end ofJohn 
Adams's lifetime had many characteristics of a garden 
from the earlier colonial era. John Adams regarded 
shade trees as  dangerous and cumbersome; conse­
quently there were few trees on the grounds during 
his time.  Indeed, many years after John Adams' death 
Charles Francis Adams wrote in his diary that "the old 
gentleman inherited from the settlers his hostility to 
the forest which abounded in the early colony."42    In 
summary, though John and Abigail Adams can be 
credited with having brought about significant change 
to the landscape at the Old House, their general 
approach was decidedly more traditional than 
innovative. 
11 
~ 
 - 20 - 
SITE CHRONOLOGY: 1787-1826 
1787                                 John Adams and his family were living in London, where he was serving as  the 
American Ambassador to the Court of Saint James.  By that time the family was 
preparing to return to the United States, to reside in their cottage at the foot of 
Penn's Hill in Braintree. John and Abigail first considered purchasing the Borland/ 
Vassall property at the urging ofAbigail's sister, Mary Cranch, and her husband 
Richard. 
April 22: Mary Cranch wrote to Abigail Adams, "You cannot crowd your sons into 
a little bed by the side of yours now.  If you will never enlarge it you had better buy 
Mr.  Borland's or build one."43 
September 26: The Adamses purchased the Old House property for £600 with the 
assistance ofAbigail's  uncle, Cotton Tufts. The property included a 7.5-acre house 
lot along the north side of the Boston to Plymouth Road, with 11  acres more to 
the north and a fairly extensive parcel of farmland to the south of the Boston to 
Plymouth Road.44  The deed for the property, signed by Leonard Vassall Borland, 
described the house lot: 
Being the same on  which the house,  barn,  and other buildings are 
containing about seven acres,  beginning at the Westerly  Corner ofthe 
Garden .from thence easterly on the Road leading .from Boston to 
Plymouth . ... 45 
June 30: Cotton Tufts, overseeing repairs to the Old House, wrote to Abigail that 
the house had been "much abused by bad tenants."46 
1788                                  April 20: John Quincy Adams, recently graduated from  Harvard College, visited 
his parents' future home, and was  apparently not taken with it: 
I went down  to  view the house,  which they are repairing for my 
father.  I was not perfectly pleased with it,  but it now appears in a 
very unfavorable light.  They are obliged to  make the most necessary 
repairs very hastily,  expecting my father in a few weeks.  I am in 
hopes that after my parents return this place will be more lively and 
agreeable to  me than it is atpresent.  I think I shall never make it the 
standing place ofmy residence,  but I shall wish to pass much ofmy 
time here.  . . . 41 
June: John, Abigail and their family returned to Boston, where they were received 
with public honors, and proceeded to their new home in Braintree. 
12 
~ 
 - 21 - 
1788                               July 7: Abigail wrote to her daughter, Abigail  (Mrs. William Smith), about her 
disappointment with the condition of the house. 
October 10: Abigail wrote to Mary Cranch referring to her new house as  a "wren's 
nest" and the garden as  a "wilderness."48 
December 3: John Adams wrote to Thomas Brand Hollis about the vast repairs the 
house required with a rather proud description of it. 
1789                               John Adams began his term as Vice President of the United States, and the family 
moved to New York in April. 
May 31: Correspondence from Abigail noted that trying to replant the boxwood 
was  "like digging up so  many trees with large roots,"  indicating that it was already 
quite old by that time. Abigail also  made note of "little grass plots before the 
door."49 
1790                                October 10: Abigail Adams wrote to Mary Cranch asking that she send some fruit 
from the Old House garden (St.  Germain pears and Russet apples)  to them in New 
York.22 
December 6: The Adamses moved to the new Capitol in Philadelphia. 
1791                                April  18: Abigail Adams wrote from Philadelphia to her sister Mary Cranch "I will 
thank you to attend a little to my garden, have some sallid sown and whatever you 
think proper."51 
October: In a letter to Abigail, Mary Cranch made what is  the earliest known 
reference to the wash house, saying "upon the wash house we shall put a lock."52 
1792                                February: The North Precinct of Braintree was incorporated as  the Town of 
Quincy. At that time the town had a population of 900 people, made up of less 
than 200 families. 
1793                                A corn crib, the first new building to be constructed on the grounds by the 
Adamses, was erected north of the mansion and east of the old farmhouse. 
Constructed ofwood and placed in line with the farmhouse on the east lawn, the 
primary function of this structure was to store corn. 53 
13 
~ 
 - 22 - 
1794 
1796 
John Adams's diary mentioned hired men "hoeing potatoes in the lower garden."54 
This garden, which under John Quincy Adams and Charles Francis Adams would 
become a full vegetable garden, was sited in a location north of the drying yard, 
and south of the current site of the greenhouse. A wall ran along the north side of 
the garden and may have extended further. 
John Adams was elected for one term as  President; John and Abigail were  the first 
residents of the White House in Washington, D.C. 
July 7:  In a letter, Abigail asked her sister to get slips from the quince tree set out at 
the Old House.55 
July 27: John Adams spoke of his men carting earth to fill  "the hollow in the 
cowyard," referring to the area east of the house. Another enclosure stood between 
the stable and the house and was referred to as  the paddock.56 
August 19: John Adams wrote of clearing the large meadow north of the lower 
garden meadow for a cornfield. Using five men and up to ten yoke of oxen 
ploughing each day,  it took five  days to accomplish. John Adams noted: 
It is astonishing that such a meadow could have lain so  long in such 
a state.  Brakes,  hassock grass,  Cranberry vines,  Poke or Skunk 
cabbage,  Button bushes,  alder bushes,  old stumps and Roots,  Rocks, 
turtles,  Eels,  Frogs  were the chiefthings to  be found in it.  But I 
presume that it may be made to produce Indian and English  Grain, 
and English grass,  especially herdsgrass in abundance. At least the 
Beauty ofthe meadow and the sweetness ofit and the air over it will 
be improved 57 
Once the meadow was broken up, corn was planted. The field was sometimes 
referred to as  the meadow cornfield. However,  this area appears to have had 
persistent drainage problems, and some years the corn ran the risk of rotting. 58 
Associated with the cornfield was a compost pile located below the lower garden 
wall. 
September 7: John Adams hired a man to widen the brook for him; in his diary on 
September 7 he noted, "Stetson, widening the Brook to 7 feet at 9d. Pr.  Rod and a 
dinner."59 
14 
~ 
 - 23 - 
1797                                  The Adamses began planning the construction of a new barn. 
June: Abigail wrote of her interest in using the barn of Captain Benjamin Beale, 
next door,  as  a model. 60  She also expressed interest in building two barns, rather 
than one. 
June 27: In a letter to Abigail Adams, Mary Cranch mentioned a "rosebush under 
your window."61  Historian Skeen speculates that chis is  a reference to the white 
York Rose. 
July 26: John Quincy Adams married Louisa Catherine Johnson. 
October 5: The clochesyard is  first mentioned in a letter to Mary Cranch.62 
1798                                  The Adams Mansion property was assessed at a value of $6,280. By chis time the 
central core of the Adams property included 8.5 acres north of the road and 99 
acres to the south. The portion of the property north of Plymouth Road was listed 
as  containing: 
1 dwelling house,  2  stories,  wood,  29' x 47' 
1 wood house,  2 stories,  wood,  15' x 54' 
1 barn,  28' by 66' 
1 corn  barn,  18' x 30' 
Across the Plymouth Road were 99 more acres with: 
1 barn, 25' x 30' 
1 barn,  20' x 25' 
At chat time, John Adams is  recorded as  owning sixteen ocher properties along with 
the "core area'' of the Old House property, two ofwhich may have been adjacent to 
the central portion of the property and five  ofwhich had tenant houses. 63 
December 14: John Adams wrote to Abigail chat he wanted a plain barn, in line 
with the front of the Old House: 
The barn must not be a monument offoppery.  I should be content to 
have it 16--foot post.  But ifit is though advisable I suppose we can 
get ... new posts long enough for 20 feet.  I protest against two 
buildings-and all expensive ornament. 64 
15 
~ 
 - 24 - 
FIGURE 3 
The earliest known 
illustration ofJohn Adams's 
estate. Attached to the back 
ofthe original is a note 
written by Charles Francis 
Adams: "This is a 
representation of the Mansion 
at Braintree as it was when 
conveyed in September 1787 
by Leonard Vassall Borland to 
John Adams. It seems to have 
been taken by E. Malcolm of 
New York in the year 1798, 
just before the great addition 
was made on the east end and 
the stable and barn were 
erected by John Adams, then 
president. The southern 
portico was also added. The 
eastern portico was added by 
me, and the barn was 
removed in  1846 by reason of 
the laying out of the railway. 
The stable was removed 
because of the laying our of 
the highway in  1873." 
"BRAINTREE" BY  E.  MALCOLM,  NEW YORK,  MARCH 1798. 
1799 
1797-99                         The old farmhouse behind the mansion was renovated and enlarged from two 
rooms ro four, with a new peaked roof and two new chimneys. The house included 
a farm kitchen, dairy and quarters for the tenant farmer. The northeast room in the 
enlarged building was constructed to serve as a library. Special shelves were 
constructed to house the President's collection, and the room served as his presi­
dential office during the last three summers of his term. 65 
The old Borland barn was taken down and a new barn and stable were located east 
of the house facing Plymouth Road. The building closest to the house was the 
stable, which measured 40.5' x 48' on Eaton's survey. The dimensions of the barn 
are unknown as it was removed prior to the 1849 survey.66 Various views of the 
stable and barn indicate chat they were similar in height and overall structure, 
although the stable had three doors while the barn had only one door and a 
hayloft. 
With the conversion of the old woodshed into a farm kitchen, a new woodshed 
was erected immediately to the east of the farmhouse. Because wood was used 
extensively for heat and cooking, the woodshed was located as close to the house as 
possible.67 
16 
~ 
 - 25 - 
1797-99 
1800 
1801 
A cider house and barn were built. According to historian Skeen, the exact location 
of this cider house and barn has not been determined. However, it appears likely 
that the cider house and barn occupied the one unmarked building which appears 
on the 1826 Eaton survey of the Adams estate to the east of the woodshed. In this 
drawing the building measured 56' x 20.5'. The shape of the building is shown as 
rectangular in some drawings and L-shaped in others. This building was demol­
ished in the  1870s with the construction of Newport Avenue through the Adams 
property. 
With the completion of the various farm buildings, the area to the east of the house 
came to serve as  a farmyard,  bounded by the woodshed, corncrib and cider barn on 
the north, and the barn and stable to the south. This area appears to have been 
covered with grass,  for both John Adams and John Quincy Adams mention the 
grass being mowed there.68  Behind the barn was a fenced enclosure thought to have 
been the cowyard. 
November 13: Abigail Adams wrote to Cotton Tufts "the President hopes you will 
not omit to have eight or nine barrels of good late made cider, put up in the cellar 
for his own particular use. "69 
During President Adams's term in office the Old House was nearly doubled in size 
with the construction of a spacious east wing. The new wing featured an entry, 
wide floor,  a hallway and a long room on the ground floor,  a similar arrangement 
on the second floor,  and bedrooms on the third floor.  Extensive alterations in the 
western/kitchen ell were also  undertaken. 
With the addition of the east wing the side fence was moved to the end of the new 
addition, enlarging the front yard. At some point after 1800, one or more 
horsechestnut trees were planted between the two front gates. John Quincy 
Adams's diaries mention of some other trees in the yard, including "althea trees 
before the Eastern door of the house" and plum trees.70 
April 26: Abigail wrote to her sister "Do not let my flowers  be neglected. Pray if 
you can, get me some stursion seed, double Larkspur, and Marble perue."71 
John Adams returned to the Old House as  a permanent resident after his defeat in 
a run for a second term as  president. At this time he focused his attention on 
farming the Old House property. Crops included corn, hay,  potatoes and beans. 
Vegetables, herbs and fruit were included inside the boxwood hedge. 
17 
~ 
 - 26 - 
1801                                May 8: Abigail wrote to Katharine Johnson: 
The Beauties which my garden unfolds to my view ftom the window 
at which I now write tempt me to forget the past, and rejoice in the 
fall bloom ofthe pear,  the Apple,  the plumb (sic) andpeach,  and the 
rich Luxuriance ofthe grass plots,  interspersed with the cowslip and 
dafjj,,  and CaLLombine,  (sic) aLL unite to awaken the most pleasing 
sensations.72 
July 21: John Adams wrote to his son, Thomas Boylston Adams, "the crops of hay 
have been abundant; upon this spot, where eight years ago we cut scarcely six tons, 
we now have thirty."73   It is  unclear whether this hay was grown on the portion of 
the Adams property to the north or south ofAdams Street. 
1809                               John Quincy Adams was appointed minister to Russia. 
1817-25                         John Quincy Adams served as  President Monroe's Secretary ofState. 
1818                               Abigail Adams died of typhoid fever. 
1820-21                         The pond in the meadow was first dug by John Adams and was partially fed by 
water from Blacks Creek. 
August 15: A description ofa visit by West Point cadets to the home ofJohn 
Adams mentions a field opposite the house and a grass lawn shaded by 
horsechestnuts in front of the house.74 
October 19: John Adams noted, "a pond in my lower garden, which I had lately 
made from several never-failing springs, was filled with water..."75   The pond 
helped to extinguish a fire at the Old House that year. 
"SKETCH OF THE MANSION" BY ABIGAIL SMITH ADAMS, 1820. 
18 
~ 
FIGURE4 
Drawn from a point on the 
south side ofwhat would 
later be known as Adams 
Street, this sketch may 
provide the earliest view of 
the barn and stable 
constructed by John Adams 
c.1800. A single tree, nearly 
as  rail as the house stands in 
the front yard, however; no 
such tree appears in the 
Malcolm view of 1798. 
 - 27 - 
1822                               Spring: John Adams conveyed to the Town of Quincy seven tracts ofAdams land. 
The intent of this gift was provide the town with sufficient revenue and stone (two 
of the plots had quarries on them) to construct a Stone Temple and a school. The 
Temple and School Fund was established on June 22, 1822. 
October 10: The pond apparently dried up. John Adams wrote to his grandson 
that "We have been obliged to dig ditches in it six-feet-deep to come at any 
water."76 
"SEAT OF  HON. JOHN ADAMS"  BY GEORGE WASHINGTON  BEALE,  r820-r829. 
FIGURE 5 
The Old House and the two new barns appear particularly large 
in this image. Note the large tree in the front yard, which 
appears in the Abigail Smith Adams sketch (fig.  4). 
1825                               John Quincy Adams was elected President of the United States. 
Spring: Journalist Anne Newport Royall described the home of 
John Adams: 
Mr.  A.  does not live exactly in the town, but a little to the right, 
about 200yards from  the road on this side ofQuincy. He lives on a 
farm,  which is kept in fine order and fitted out with barns, stables 
and carriage houses.17 
1826                               April  10: The date given for the completion of the construction of Presidents Lane 
through the Adams property south ofAdams Street. 
July 4: John Adams died at the age of 91. 
19 
~ 
 - 28 - 
FIGURE 6 
Drawn from Presidents Hill, 
chis image shows the land 
north ofAdams Street as 
wild and overgrown, and the 
area north ofthe Adams 
house as open and 
undeveloped far into the 
distance. Quincy Bay and 
what may be Squancum are 
visible in the distance. The 
front of the house is marked 
by a white picket fence and a 
tall  tree, and three deciduous 
trees mark the southern 
boundary of the east lawn. 
"RESIDENCE OF JOHN ADAMS AND JOHN QUINCY ADAMS" 
BY ELIZA SUSAN  QUINCY, 1823. 
FIGURE? 
This survey was made 
following John Adams's 
death. All of the buildings, 
except the house and 
farmhouse, were built by 
John Adams while he held 
public office. The main house 
faces  the Old Road co Boston. 
Enclosures, perhaps picker 
fences, appear co  form a 
forecourt or front yard. The 
garden is  co  the southeast. 
Historian Skeen identified the 
buildings north ofthe house, 
from  right co  left, as 
farmhouse, woodshed, corn 
crib and cider barn. This plan 
notes that President's Lane, 
on the south side ofAdams 
Street, had been laid out on 
April  10, 1826. 
"PLAN OF THE ADAMS  PLACE"  BY MATTHEW WORTHINGTON, 
SURVEYOR,   1826. 
20 
~ 
 - 29 - 
John Qyincy Adams Period 
1826-1848 
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 
AND  SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
Following the death ofJohn Adams the Old House 
property passed to his son, John Quincy Adams 
(JQA), who was one year into his term as  President of 
the United States. Because JQA was  unable to take 
occupancy at that time, the property was rented to his 
brother, Thomas Boylston Adams, for the next three 
years. After completing his term of office, JQA and 
his wife,  Louisa Catherine, adopted the Quincy 
property as  their summer residence and stayed there 
regularly until his death in 1848. 
JQA loved the Old House as  his family 
home, but he was too engrossed in politics to give it 
much attention. Consequently, the period of his 
ownership was marked by little change.  Indeed, in 
1832, with the election ofJQA as  a member of the 
House of Representatives from Plymouth, the 
management of the estate was officially turned over to 
his son, Charles Francis Adams. In fact,  relatively little 
construction occurred in this period. The wooden 
fence in front of the house was replaced by a new 
fence with square, granite posts. The east wing of the 
Old House was connected to the main portion with 
the addition of a two-story passageway and a back 
entry was added on. Finally,  under the management 
Charles Francis, a stone wall was constructed around 
the boundaries of the Old House property. 
Despite the relatively few building projects 
which occurred, the overall character and appearance 
of the Old House grounds changed considerably 
during JQA's tenure. The construction of the Old 
Colony Railroad Line through Quincy sliced a strip of 
land off of the east side of the property, forcing the 
removal of the old barn built by John Adams in 1799. 
This property reduction eventually prompted redesign 
of the entire site by Charles Francis. The newly 
constructed tracks presented a bleak prospect, as 
Charles Francis noted in 1845, " ... the railroad takes 
away all of the rural appearance which this place once 
had, and gives it the vulgar look of a mere place of 
passing traffic. A sort of stage highway. "78 
A more important influence to the changing 
character of the property was JQA's evolving interest in 
tree cultivation-the Old House grounds provided the 
site for many of his horticultural endeavors. He 
planted a wide variety of trees including willow oaks, 
sweet gum, catalpa, honey locust, beech, chestnut, 
cherry, apple, ash,  beech, buttonwood and others. As  a 
result, one of the greatest impacts that JQA had on the 
Old House property was to transform it from relatively 
open space to well-planted and shady grounds. 
J QA's interest in the natural sciences was well 
known to the rest of the Adams family.  He recorded his 
horticultural experiments and observations compul­
sively,  revealing an almost obsessive interest in the 
subject. He conducted experimental tree plantations at 
varying locations, including the site of the old summer 
house at the western end of the garden, the northwest 
corner of the garden itself, and the "Seminary," located 
in the grassy lawn area west of the house. A visitor to 
the Old House in 1854 (shortly after JQA's death) 
commented: 
Most ofthe trees  were raised by john 
Quincy Adams from  the seeds,  which he 
was in the habit ofpicking up in his 
wanderings.  In  this way he was an 
enthusiast in regard to all trees ofthe forest, 
differing in this respect from  his father, 
who,  as an agriculturist,  was  more inclined 
to  cut down  trees than to propagate them. 19 
21 
~ 
 - 30 - 
JQA's interest in horticulture was very much in line 
with a growing national interest in horticulture and 
botany that characterized the first half of the 19th 
century.80    By the 1820s, arboreta and active horticul­
tural societies had been established in several major 
cities including Boston, New York and Philadelphia. 
Periodicals originally aimed at farmers expanded their 
focus  at this time to appeal to gardeners as well. The 
growing interest in plant material during this period 
reflected at least two quite distinct notions pervasive 
in American culture at that time. The first was a sense 
of pride, rooted in nationalism, in the wide variety of 
plant material in America, particularly the vast 
potential presented by new types of plants not yet 
codified by European scientists. The second concept, 
closely linked to the budding Romantic movement in 
the United States, was that horticulture and garden­
ing, like natural scenery and fresh air,  had a positive 
influence on the human character.81 
According to historian Skeen, JQA regretted 
that his interest in trees had developed so late in life. 
Following his discovery of arboriculture and horticul­
ture he devoted much his time at Quincy planting 
seeds and recording his observations.  Indeed, he 
adopted a personal motto from Tacitus:  "He plants 
trees for future generations," and he designed a seal 
with an oak leaf and acorn emblem.82  JQA's thorough 
records and observations provide a wealth of informa­
tion about the Old House's landscape that has not yet 
been fully researched. More importantly, JQA's 
extensive plantings were significant in laying the 
groundwork for the eventual transformation of the 
site by Charles Francis Adams from a relatively simple 
farm to a more refined, landscaped estate. 
22 
~ 
 - 31 - 
SITE CHRONOLOGY, 1826-1848 
1826                               July 4: With his father's death in 1826, JQA inherited the Adams mansion and 
approximately 90 acres ofland. At this time, JQA was residing in the White House 
and the Adams house was occupied by Thomas Boylston Adams, who continued 
to rent the property until 1829. 
July 13: JQA diary:  "The charm which has always made this house to me an abode 
of enchantment is  dissolved; and yet my attachment to it, and to the whole region 
round, is stronger than I ever felt it before."83 
JQA set out his first experimental tree plantation in the foundation of the old 
summer house located at the west end of the garden. The seedling garden included 
shagbark hickory, walnut, oak, horse chestnut, peach, plum and apricot. Four years 
later he reported the presence of chestnut oak, horse chestnut, elm, peach, plum, 
shellbark, catalpa and willow growing in his informal nursery. 84 
July 23: JQA diary:  "althea trees before the Eastern door of the house ...." 85 
1827                               August 12: JQA recorded constructing four small wooden tubs and planting five 
tamarind stones and eight pear seeds in the first tub. 86 
October 3: JQA diary:  "I have laid off a small strip of land from the northwest 
corner of the garden for a nursery of trees.  It has been fenced off,  and a gate has 
been opened into it from the garden. This afternoon I planted in it 20 rows of 
acorns, English and black and white oaks, beechplum and cherry stones, apple and 
pear seeds, whole peaches and apples, and horse chestnuts, also  10 Pennsylvania 
walnuts..."87  This nursery was  in the same area where Brooks Adams later had a 
rose garden, and where the York Rose stands today. 88 
1828                                April 5:   Charles Francis noted the planting of "Spanish chestnuts 
belonging to my father. We put down between 40 and 50 of them ... 
and 2 cherries."89 
April  15:   Charles Francis noted the planting of one row of "40 English Oaks, 53 
Elms of the third year growth ... in the enclosure next to the 
house called the clothes yard sowed some shell backs and pecan nuts as 
an experiment." 
23 
~ 
 - 32 - 
·:.;~~         ~  _._;__---;·""-"""'-"""'~........-'"-""-
"THE ADAMS  SEAT IN QUINCY" BY MRS.  G.W. WHITNEY, 1828. 
FIGURE 8 
This drawing shows the horse chestnuts in from of the house and several shade trees behind the 
farm house and wood shed. Nore rhe new front gate and extended front wall. In the left corner is 
a tall wrought-iron weather vane, which was later installed on rop of the srone library. Presidents 
Lane, lined with rwo srone walls, appears on the south side ofAdams Street. 
1828                               April 15:  CFA diary referred to a clothes yard located next to the house. 
December 3:  JQA was defeated by Thomas Jefferson in the presidential election. 
1829                               Spring: Thomas Boylston Adams's family moved out of the Old House and JQA 
took up residence. 
April 18: Charles Francis Adams came to inspect the property after his uncle had 
moved out and noted that "the mansion looked melancholy and ill-used and 
sad."90 
June 1: Charles Francis noted that "the sight of the old house and its condition 
made me sick. I felt disgusted at its extremely dismal condition."91 
Summer: Charles Francis and his brother, John, resided with their father, JQA, in 
Quincy, while their mother, Louisa Catherine, remained in 
Washington. 
October 30: Charles Francis wrote to his mother that his father "was rebuilding his 
kitchen in a modern and improved sryle."92 The kitchen was extensively modern­
ized and altered during this year.93 
24 
~ 
 - 33 - 
1830                                  April  13:  Charles Francis noted the clearing of rosebushes for  his father. 94 
July 23: A list of plants recorded by JQA included hyssop, mint, rue, sage 
and tansy. 95 
August 14: JQA wrote in his memoirs: 
'He plants trees, 'says Statius in his Synephebi,  'for the benefit of 
another century:· for what purpose,  ifthe next century were not 
something to him?  The diligent husbandman,  then,  shall plant trees 
upon which his own eyes shall never see a berry; and shall not a great 
man plant laws,  institutions a commonwealth? I have had my share 
in planting laws and institutions according to  the measure ofmy 
ability and opportunities.  I would willingly have had more.  My 
leisure is  not imposed on  me by the will ofhigher powers,  to  which I 
willingly submit, and I plant trees for the benefit ofthe next age,  and 
ofwhich my  own eyes  will never behold a berry.  To  raise forest trees 
requires the concurrence oftwo generations; and even ofmy lately 
planted nuts,  seeds and stones,  I may never  taste the fruit. 96 
August 31: JQA planted a catalpa in the orchard.97 
Fall: JQA ordered and paid for extensive repairs to the house, including a new roof. 
September 22: Charles Francis purchased fruit trees from the nursery of Mr. 
Warren.98 
November 30: J QA was elected a member of the House of Representatives from his 
native district of Plymouth. 
December 25: JQA found that he had to replace both the side and front fences.  In 
a letter to Charles Francis, John Quincy noted that, upon the suggestion of his 
neighbor Benjamin Beale, he agreed to install stone posts with square granite caps 
for the front gate.99 
December 29:  Charles Francis, who was overseeing the work for his father, 
approved the idea of the stone fence,  noting that the new fence would make "a 
permanent improvement in respect to the externals of the old house."100 
25 
~ 
 - 34 - 
1831                                Charles Francis had the four large  14-inch square granite posts installed in the 
front gate to replace the wooden posts which had rotted. Afterwards he added the 
six hitching posts.  He retained the low curbing of field stone between the posts and 
the wall along the south side of the formal garden and placed a rough picket-type 
fence on top of it. 101 
September 14: A letter prepared by William H. Seward, future Governor of New 
York,  contains the following brief description of the Adams property: 
Nothing I have seen is so  beautiful as the environs ofBoston.  This 
place is distant from  the city ten  miles and very rural in its appear­
ance.  The mansion house ... is a plain,  two-story building,  about 
60feet long,  with a few venerable trees before it,  and two doors of 
entrance in front. 102 
1832                                Charles Francis had the insides of the Old House painted and redecorated in 
1832.103 
February 27: John Quincy appointed Charles Francis as  superintendent of all 
affairs in Quincy. John Quincy paid his son a wage of five  percent of all  receipts 
spent each quarter. 104  From this point until John Quincy's death in  1848 the 
maintenance of the Old House was a joint effort of the two men. 
April 24: CFA diary: 
I  think this year and the last have done a good deal in the way of 
improving the old mansion.  It looks more like a  Gentleman's place.  It 
has been done at some expense but on the whole pretty economically. 
The distribution ofthe money has been fully made up by the added 
value to  the place.  It had been so suffered to fall into neglect that in a 
few years nothing would have answered but a complete repair,  which 
would have been equivalent to a new house. 105 
July 10: Charles Francis wrote of "making a poor attempt to reset some of the box" 
in the formal garden. 106 
1833                                June 17: Charles Francis referenced the "old Saint Michaels pear tree in the center 
of the garden."107 
26 
~ 
 - 35 - 
1833                                May 3:  JQA noted,  "The Barn was  removed from the Hill opposite to the House 
and set up in the yard,  near the two others."108  This relocated barn may have been 
one of the two small barns that were listed on the south side of the street in John 
Adams's  1789 tax evaluation. However, by 1849 this barn was  not listed in Eaton's 
survey, so it appears to have been in this location for only a short time. There is  no 
account of what happened to it.  109 
JQA's garden book from this year included a list of seedling trees and plants 
including "althea, apple, ash,  beech, blackberry, chestnut, cherry, currant, elm, 
locust, maple, nectarine, oak, peach, pear, plum, raspberry, strawberry, thimble­
berry, walnut, horse chestnut, buttonwood, vine, nettle."110    However, it is  unclear 
whether all  of these trees grew to full size and were set out. 
1834                               JQA laid out an area called "the Seminary" for his seedling trees in the grassy yard 
area to the east of the house and enclosed by the woodshed, corncrib, cider barn 
and stable. This area consisted of eight rows of eight rings,  four feet in diameter, 
filled with manure and soft dirt. Each of these rings was  planted with a variety of 
seeds,  including peach and plum stone, acorns and walnuts. The rows  ran parallel 
to Adams Street. 111 
July 29: JQA planted dwarf fruit trees. 112 
1835                                JQA laid out a border of flowers  along the east side of the house where some 
flowers were already growing.  However,  this bed was removed when the porch was 
added to the east side of the house in 1852. 
August 24: JQA diary:  "I cannot bring myself to take much interest in flowers 
because they pass off and perish leaving nothing behind-but as  the trees are now 
seemingly as  evanescent as  the petal of a rose,  and which 100 years from now will 
bear delicious fruit or afford a shelter and a shade of after ages  of men, these yield 
me delight." 113 
May 17:  JQA diary:  "peach and pear trees in the patch fronting my chamber 
window."  114 
June 24: JQA diary:  "I have six cherry trees well laden with fruit,  of which the 
birds have already taken a large portion." 115 
June 25:  JQA diary:  "We had this day a tart from cherries of our garden and a 
dish of very good strawberries, the first ripe ...."116 
27 
~ 
 - 36 - 
1836                               JQA built a two-story north passage to connect the east wing with the old part of 
the house and a back entry that no longer exists. The north passage connected the 
kitchen ell with the east wing without walking through all of the other rooms in 
the house. This portico was later removed by Brooks Adams. 
Charles Francis began to plan a new house on Presidents Hill, about a quarter mile 
from the Old House. 
FIGURE 9 
This image shows the house 
with farm buildings arranged 
around an open work yard. 
Adams Street appears to be 
entirely unpaved. The area 
to the north of the house 
extends to open fields divided 
by fences; a few large homes 
appear in the distance. Note 
chat a porch has been added 
to the franc of the house. 
"A VIEW OF THE RESIDENCE OF  LATE PRESIDENT ADAMS AT 
QUINCY,  MASSACHUSETTS"   BY SARAH APTHORP, 1837. 
1837                               July 20: JQA attempted to open up the pond again. He wrote, "French began the 
clearing out of the ditch from the pond North of the House to the Brook."117 
Charles Francis built a new house on Presidents Hill. 
1839                               June 1: JQA diary: "apricot tree in the center of the garden."118 
June 1: JQA set out a "red flowering maple" in his nursery. 119 
1839                               August 31: An issue ofNiles National Register entitled ''A Distinguished 
Horticulturalist" noted: 
The public labors ofex-president Adams give the public some idea of 
the variety ofhis pursuits and studies-but a visit to his residence 
only can show how the venerable ex-president spends his leisure ... 
The orchard proper andgarden contain some descriptions offruit no 
where else to  be found in the country . .. new descriptions ofapples, 
pears,  etc.  have been introduced by grafting. 120 
28 
~ 
 - 37 - 
1841                                Horticulturist Andrew Jackson Downing visited the Adams family and presented 
them with a copy of his  recent work, A  Treatise on the Theory and Practice of 
Landscape Gardening, with a personal dedication to John Quincy. 
May 17: JQA diary: "plum tree near the southwest corner of our house."121 
1841-45                         Charles Francis surrounded the property boundaries and both sides of Presidents 
Lane with a stone wall.  122 
1843                                June 23: JQA diary refers to a tool shed on the north side of the garden. 123 
August 15: JQA diary:  "My garden has been this year so  much neglected that we 
have not the common vegetables, peas and beans, carrots and beets, but must 
purchase them." 124 
August 15: JQA diary notes that the Althea trees in front of the eastern door of the 
house will have to be removed. 
October 19:  JQA diary notes John Kirk taking down the fence between the garden 
and the orchard. 125 
1844                               The Old Colony Line was built through Quincy, slicing off a strip of land on the 
eastern side of the Adams property for a right-of-way. This left approximately 14 
acres in the Old House site. 
July 29: JQA diary notes that the track was located within ten feet of the large barn 
built by John Adams in  1799, putting it in danger of being set on fire. 126 
September 7: JQA noted planting fruit trees in his garden. 127 
December 4: The Adamses received $6, 090.45 for land taken for the construction 
of the Old Colony Line. 128 
1844-45                         Architect Alexander Jackson Davis, at Charles Francis's request, visits Quincy to 
look at house sites including the Mount Wollaston property. 
1845                                June 30: JQA's notes indicate a mulberry by the western window and "Two young 
mazzard (cherry trees)  in front of our western window." 129 
July 28: JQA diary refers to a mulberry shading the cherry tree at the kitchen 
garden gate. 130 
29 
~ 
 - 38 - 
1845                               September 26:  Charles Francis noted in his diary that the intrusion of the railroad 
1846 
1848 
into the property disrupted its rural appearance. 
April 7: The Old Colony agreed chat the large barn built by John Adams in 1799 
was in danger by the relocated track and would pay damages for its demolition. 
April 14: Charles Francis recorded chat the old barn was sold at auccion.13 1 
February 23: JQA died in Washington. 
FIGURE IO 
The front of the property is 
enclosed by a low srone wall 
ropped by a picket fence. A 
low wall extends from  this 
front wall  ro the northwest 
corner of the house. The 
front ofthe house is filled 
with brushy vegetation, 
marked by several tall trees, 
one to the right of the gate. 
"RESIDENCE OF JOHN  QUINCY ADAMS,  QUINCY,  MASSACHUSETTS" 
WOODCUT, ARTIST UNKNOWN, 1846. 
30 
~ 
 - 39 - 
--~~~:~=--
Charles Francis Adams Period 
1848-1886 
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND AND 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
Following the death ofJohn Quincy Adams in 1849 
the Old House was inherited by his son, Charles 
Francis Adams. Charles Francis had spent a consider­
able amount of time at the Old House as  a child 
during summer visits and with his grandparents while 
his parents were abroad.  Charles Francis graduated 
from Harvard College in 1825 and entered into the 
practice of law a few years later. 
In 1829, Charles Francis Adams married 
Abigail Brown Brooks, the daughter of Boston 
millionaire Peter Chardon Brooks. Initially, the couple 
lived in Boston and passed each summer in Quincy. 
In 1832, John Quincy, engrossed with his affairs in 
Washington, appointed Charles Francis as  agent for 
the estate. In 1837 Charles and Abigail moved their 
family from Boston to a new house five  minutes from 
the Old House on Presidents Hill. In 1840 Charles 
Francis was elected to the Massachusetts Legislature, 
serving three years in the House and two years in the 
Senate. 
Following the death of his father,  Charles 
Francis moved into the mansion. According to 
historian Helen Nelson, Charles Francis took over the 
Quincy property with a determination to improve 
it. 132  Passages in Charles's diary indicate that he felt 
that the burden and expense of the house was so  great 
that it would be better to simply tear it down. 
However, he decided to improve the estate in case his 
mother wanted to move back from Washington, D.C. 
With the death of his father-in-law,  Charles Francis 
and his wife inherited a great deal of money. This 
allowed them the luxury of properly maintaining both 
their home in Boston and their Quincy estate. 133 
Aided by his wife's money,  Charles Francis undertook 
a program of gradual but extensive repairs, "so 
necessary to the well being of the establishment and to 
its preservation for the future." 134  As soon as  he 
moved into the house, Charles Francis had it painted 
grey with green shutters and white trim. The garden 
wall was rebuilt, the barn was  repaired and several 
older sheds were torn down. Running water was 
brought into the house, and later,  in  1861, gas pipes 
were installed. Repairs were made to the paneled 
room and the east wing of the house. A large portico 
was added to the east side of the house, and the front 
portico was  replaced.  On the surrounding grounds, 
Charles Francis hoped to restore the estate to a 
productive farm,  like his grandfather had run. Around 
1850 he attempted to install a drainage system in the 
meadow.  In 1851  he   reported that he was  breaking 
up the lower meadow to plant turnips. 
Although dutiful about improving the Old 
House and its grounds, Charles Francis was  not 
without regrets about the cost of the effort. In 1852 
he wrote: 
The quantity oflabor and expense that 
is called for to  bring these places into 
condition is at last wearing me out. ... 
Certainly estates in the country can  be of 
little or no value to  their possessors.  They 
may be an accumulatingfond to a later 
generation.  None ofmy children could 
afford to hold mine. 135 
After the age of 50, Charles Francis Adams' political 
career took off,  resulting in an interruption in his 
attention to the Old House property. In 1858 he was 
nominated for the United States Congress, where he 
served until 1860. In 1861, Charles Francis was 
appointed Ambassador to Great Britain by President 
31 
~ 
 - 40 - 
Abraham Lincoln and he remained in that post for 
the next seven years.  Upon his return, he found the 
house in good shape, noting that "The Old House 
looked much as  it did; the trees all around have grown 
so  that the whole aspect of the scene is  more elegant 
and cultivated than before." 136    However, they soon 
found that the Old House did not provide enough 
space for their household, and lacked a level of style to 
which they had become accustomed. Charles Francis's 
son, Henry, thought that the renovation plans were 
misguided, noting in 1869 that "They are trying to 
make their house habitable, but I never was in such a 
wretched old trap, for it hasn't even the merit of being 
well-built. "137 
In light of this,  Charles Francis embarked on 
an ambitious program of improvements for the estate. 
In the next several years he implemented a series of 
changes that transformed the character of the property 
from a country farm to a Victorian estate. The multi­
purpose farmhouse behind the Old House was 
demolished, and a kitchen ell and service quarters 
were added to the rear of the house. Architect Edward 
Cabot Clark was hired to design a stone library to 
house the family papers, which was constructed on 
the edge of the garden a few steps from the northwest 
corner of the house. With the construction of the 
library the vegetable portion of the garden was 
removed; from that time on the garden was entirely 
devoted to flowers.  Apparently, the shift from 
vegetables to flowers was intentional, reflecting 
Abigail Brooks Adams's great interest in flowers. 
In the midst of all of these changes Charles 
Francis was called to Geneva to serve as a member of 
the Geneva Arbitration Tribunal to settle the Alabama 
Claims (1871-72). While in Europe, Charles Francis 
received notice that his already diminished property 
was to be further reduced through the construction of 
Newport Avenue to the east.  Consequently, upon his 
return, various farm buildings located along the 
eastern boundary of the property were removed and 
replaced with a stone carriage house and stable. 
Associated with this effort, a decorative granite wall 
was built marking the property boundary along 
Newport Avenue and Adams Street, and a greenhouse 
was built on the north side of the property. 
In addition to the renovations and construc­
tion of new buildings, Charles Francis continued his 
father's planting of trees around the estate and he 
purchased many seedlings locally.  Charles Francis 
knew a variety of nurserymen and regularly attended 
meetings of the Horticultural Society.  Indeed, Henry 
A.S.  Dearborn, a nurseryman and first president of 
the Horticultural Society, was a close friend of Charles 
Francis. 
In transforming the Old House property 
into a gentleman's farm,  Charles Francis followed a 
trend among the wealthy and influential which 
persisted through the 19th century. For families who 
already owned farmland,  this transformation made 
sense particularly in light of the decline of small-scale 
farming in the eastern United States. Competition 
with the large midwestern farms, development 
pressure and pollution all worked together to prevent 
New England farms from realizing any reasonable 
profit. The growing popularity of country living was 
also a response to the growth of cities and their 
increasingly crowded and dirty conditions. By the 
middle of the 19th century an active social reform 
movement emphasized the benefits of rural settings as 
an antidote to city living, capable of healing physical 
and-more importantly-spiritual ailments. 
The establishment of country seats by 
prominent families such as  the Adamses was wide­
spread. In 1851, the editor of the American Agricultur­
alist reported, "Within the past 12 years the number 
of country houses for gentlemen on the banks of the 
Hudson river has greatly increased, and the style of 
them has undergone an entire change." 138    On Long 
Island, the estate ofWilliam Floyd, signer of the 
Declaration of Independence, ceased to be farmed by 
1880 and was  used by his descendants as  a summer 
home and hunting ground. Closer to Quincy and the 
Old House, Senator Daniel Webster purchased a 
modest country farm in Marshfield, Massachusetts in 
32 
~ 
 - 41 - 
1841  and similarly transformed it into a gentleman's 
seat through the construction of new outbuildings, a 
library, gardens and a decorative pond. 139 
Two of the leading proponents of the 
establishment of country seats were the architect 
Alexander Jackson Davis and the horticulturist 
Andrew Jackson Downing. In his seminal 1837 
publication Rural Residences,  Davis avidly promoted 
the new taste for picturesque suburban villas.  Down­
ing, author ofA  Treatise on the Theory and Practice of 
Landscape Gardening, Adapted to  North America 
( 1841) and Cottage Residences; or a Series ofDesigns for 
Rural Cottages and Cottage Villas and their Gardens and 
Grounds (1844), enhanced the notions put forth by 
Davis by providing advice on the laying out of 
country seats.  Downing was a distinguished horticul­
turist who designed several estates on the Hudson 
River and was an outspoken advocate for the creation 
of public parks. 
As defined by Davis, Downing and others, 
the model country seat had various typical characteris­
tics,  many of which were adopted by Charles Francis 
in his work on the Old House property. These 
included the use ofwindows, piazzas and porches to 
provide abundant natural light, and the use of exterior 
paints in soft neutral tones such as  grey or fawn. The 
grounds ideally included flower gardens, a green­
house, a hobby farm and a wide variety of plant 
material. 140 
Although Charles Francis never actually 
hired Andrew Jackson Davis, he corresponded with 
the architect extensively about the possibility of 
constructing a new family home in Mount Wollaston, 
and in 1845 Davis came to Quincy for a site visit and 
consultation. Likewise, Charles Francis had ties with 
the noted horticulturist Andrew Jackson Downing 
who visited the Old House in 1841  and 1845. 
Although the relationship is  unclear, it appears that 
both Davis's and Downing's ideas may have influ­
enced Charles Francis's transformation of the Old 
House grounds. 141 
Charles Francis did not enjoy the confusion, 
delays and cost of all  of his work, and he was anxious 
about the uncertain future of a country seat located in 
the increasingly populous City of Quincy. The second 
half of the 19th century in Quincy was characterized 
by considerable industrial growth and the beginnings 
of suburban development. Between  1840 and 1890 
the population more than tripled, reaching 16,726 by 
1890. The Old Colony Railroad provided increasingly 
regular service from Boston to Plymouth, cutting 
right through the east side of the Adams property. 
When the work was done in  1873 Charles Francis 
wished that he had built his house and library at 
Mount Wollaston after all. 142  He wondered who 
would take care of the place after he died, and noted 
that ''An ancestral mansion in this country is  an 
absurdity." 143  When the transformation of the estate 
was complete Charles Francis declared that no further 
changes should occur.  Remarkably, despite a reduc­
tion in the overall size of the Adams property, what 
remains of the Old House landscape today largely 
reflects what was  there at the end of Charles Francis's 
lifetime. 
33 
~ 
 - 42 - 
1848                                  Within the Old House itself, a force pump and system of running water were 
installed and kitchen facilities were greatly improved. The mahogany parlor was 
"restored," and the rotted floor joists in the East Wing were replaced. 
1849                                  May 21:  Charles Francis moved his family into the Old House. 
According to Brooks Adams, Charles Francis planted two or three elm trees in front 
of the house.  "Mr. Adams thought that elms in front of the house were  particularly 
well suited and he liked them trimmed high so  that they would not interfere with 
the view of the house."144 
SITE CHRONOLOGY, 1848-1886 
FIGURE II 
One of the earliest (if not the 
earliest)  photographs of Old 
House, taken  from  across 
Adams Street, slightly to the 
southwest of the from of the 
house. The front yard  is 
planted with several  trees. 
Other trees are shown lining 
the from wall  on the street 
side of the garden. As  in 
earlier images,  the front wall 
is  still  constructed with a 
srone base ropped with a low 
picket fence. The hitching 
posts are clearly visible in 
from of the from gate. The 
low wall extending from  the 
southwest corner of the house 
to the from wall appears to be 
standing. The windmill 
shown  in  earlier images as 
standing southeast of the 
house is  not visib le. 
"DAGUERREOTYPE OF  OLD  HOUSE"  BY MR.  WHIPPLE, 
BOSTON,  MASSACHUSETTS, 1849. 
34 
~ 
 - 43 - 
-~    - -  -----          -          - -  ·--    , · ~1,·n·  ,1·1Jr._r, ·-         ----''----
f 
I   I 
PLAN  OF  CHARLES  FRANCES  ADAMs's  HOMESTEAD.  SURVEYED  BY  S.D.  EATON, JUNE 1849. 
FIGURE 12 
This plan shows the entire 14+-acre Adams lot including all of the farm buildings to the north 
and east. Each building is  marked with its exact dimension, as  are all of the lot boundaries. Of 
interest is  the absence of the barn, which formerly sat adjacent to the stable but was  removed in 
1846 with the construction of the Old Colony Line. This plan shows the full  extent of the land to 
the north of the Old House, as  well  as  the route of the Furnace Brook prior to its  realignment. 
1850s                                Charles Francis may have added a barn or shed onto the old cider house in the 
1850s, making it L-shaped. 145 
1850                                  August 22: CFA diary:  "I am making cross drains after the fashion  pointed out in 
the English books, with great doubt whether they will do." 146 
September 10: Charles Francis restored a well which had been filled up for many 
years.  147 
1851                                  June 24:  Charles Francis reclaimed the meadow below the house, broke it up for 
planting and sowed a field of turnips. 148 
Historian Skeen speculates chat the cool shed was removed prior co  chis  date. 149 
35 
~ 
 - 44 - 
FIGURE  IJ 
A porcion of the Eaton 
Survey of 1849 showing 
the extenc of the Adams 
holdings associated with 
the Old House at the time 
ofJohn Quincy Adams's 
death.  Redrawn by Ernest 
Branch in  1962. 
)·r.....
'·. 
i''\. 
';     ·~ 
;/ 
-{ 
~t 
ii).,   ~_,~) 
~ 
Ii
: I 
36 
~ 
 - 45 - 
I) 
1852                                  February 3:   Charles Francis observed that the floors in  the entry and long room 
were in bad condition and had robe removed.150 
Spring: A porch was added to the east side of the house, forcing the removal of an 
old flower  bed. The rings of plants that made up John Quincy Adam's "seminary" 
had been removed and replaced with a smooth lawn by this time. 15 1 
July 3:  Charles Francis's financial  records reveal  the sale of an old fence,  possibly 
the one that enclosed the eastern side of the front yard and was removed when the 
east portico was added. 152 
August 8: Abigail Brooks Adams wrote to Charles Francis noting the condition of 
the lawn: 
Our lawn by the new portico has not been so green  this summer.  The 
rain ... has done wonders . ... The mushrooms are so  thick by the 
house that the ground by the back fence is white,  and I am sure that 
there are enough for as  big a dish as  we ever had. 153 
1854                                  Charles Francis had a small barn erected along the southeast corner property 
line,  parallel to the Old Colony Railroad Line. This structure was built 
presumably to replace the barn which was  removed with the construction 
of the Old Colony Line. 154 
1) 
37 
~ 
"vrnw IN  OILS" BY FRANKENSTEIN, 1849. 
FIGURE 14 
This painting of the Adams Old House was executed from a point slightly east of the house. 
What may be  the young elm  trees  planted by Charles Francis around  1849 are shown planted 
in a row parallel to the front wall  east of the front gate. T he front wall and hitching posts are 
prominently featured. 
 - 46 - 
1855                                  Homes ofAmerican Statesmen  includes the following description of the grounds at 
the Adams Old House: 
The garden lies on the north,  contiguous to  the house,  and connects 
with a lawn,  narrow in .front ofthe house but widening considerably 
in .front ofit.  The whole is enclosed on  the roadside by a solid wall of 
Quincy granite some six feet high.  It embraces an ornamental and 
kitchen garden,  the former occupying the side near the road and the 
latter extending by the side and beyond the kitchen and offices to an 
open  meadow and orchard.  The principal walk is through the orna­
mentalportion ofthe garden, parallel with the road, and terminates at 
a border ofthrifty forest trees,  disposed,  as they should be,  without any 
regard to  order. From  the above-mentioned another strikes out at a 
right angle,  and skirts the border ofthe trees  'till (sic)  it disappears in 
the expanse ofmeadow.  Most ofthe trees  were raised by john Quincy 
Adams.from the seeds,  which he was in the habit ofpicking up in his 
wanderings.  The most particular interest attaches to  a shagbark,  which 
he planted more than 50 years ago.  It stands near the angle ofthe two 
alleys.  In this tree he took particular satisfaction. 155 
1855                                 The same article also  contains a description of the fence along Adams Street as  it 
looked in the  19th century: "a low stone wall, surmounted by a light wooden fence 
of an obsolete fashion, with two gates in the same style, leading to the two front 
doors. "156 
FIGURE 15 
A view of the Adams house 
from  the east. Note the low 
picket fence  extending from 
the northeast corner of rhe 
house and what appears to be 
a lightning rod affixed to the 
east side. The front yard and 
east lawn appear fairly open. 
The ease portico is  not 
shown, indicating that the 
picture may have been drawn 
originally earlier than  1852. 
"vrnw OF THE ADAMS  MANSION  AT  QUINCY"  ENGRAVING 
BY  MALLORY,  1852. 
38 
~ 
 - 47 - 
1859                                February 14:  Charles Frances  placed a large order with a plant nursery, Messrs 
William Urquart and Sons.  Dundee, Scotland: 
1000 Scotch firs                    at 4s 
1000 Beech                            at 8s 
1000 Larch                            at 12s 
1000 Pinaster                        at 10s 
3000 Norway Spruce           at 2.6 
2000 Austrian Pine               at 3.6 
3000 Larch  2 yrs                  at 2.6 
200 Pinus Cembra               at 2.6 
100 Cephalonia                    at 12.6 
200 Loinici                            at  3.6 
He noted in the order:  "This will do for an experiment. If it succeeds tolerably as  I 
am laying out an Estate, I may need a good many more another season." The order 
was delivered in May of 1859. 
1861-68                         An extended break in the improvements to the estate occurred between 1861  and 
1868, during which time Charles Francis served as  ambassador to the Court of 
Saint James. 
1865                                Tax Valuation Records for the property of Charles Francis Adams listed the 
following possessions: plates, carriages and furnishings, along with 43 cows,  5 
horses,  6 oxen, 5 pigs.  Property listed included: 157 
1
Buildings                 Value                            Land                                         Value 
Home Place             $5000                            65 acres with same                $14000 
Farm House             $1500                            36 Acres Salt Marsh                $3000 
2 Barns                       $100                            360 acres woodland              $11000 
Other Buildings        $200 
House on Hill         $7000                            17 acres land with same         $7000 
House at 
Mt. Wollaston         $7000                            397 acres Wollaston Farm   $35000 
2 Barns                     $3500                            10 acres-Bob Spear              $8000 
868                                July 9:  Upon his  return to Quincy, Charles Francis noted the property as  appearing 
more elegant and cultivated than before. 
November 26: An article appeared in the Cincinnati Commercial describing the 
Adams's homestead: "Its front is  shaded by noble old elms, and the little plat 
beneath is  tastefully laid out as  a flower garden." 158 
39 
~ 
 - 48 - 
FIGURE 16 
Concept for  the 
reorganization of the Old 
House grounds in  light of 
the proposed  construction 
of Newport Avenue along 
the site's  eastern boundary. 
le  proposes co  place a new 
barn and ice house on 
Adams land south ofAdams 
Street, which did not 
happen. This plan also 
proposes  the construction 
of a new wall along the site's 
eastern boundary. 
"CHANGES  RECOMMENDED  FOR THE OLD  HOUSE  GROUNDS" 
BY JOHN  QUINCY ADAMS  II, 1865. 
1869                                  Spring: Charles Francis hired the architect Edward Cabot to draw up plans for a 
large addition beyond the kitchen and to design the new Stone Library.  Initially, a 
site for  the library was  proposed behind the Old House in the approximate 
location of the old farmhouse.  Because a well already occupied this location, a site 
was selected in the corner of the old garden, reducing its size. 159 
April 6: The wash house and chimney (attached to  the farmhouse)  were removed to 
make room for  the construction of the servants wing on the house. 160 
Summer: The new servants wing on the north side of the house was completed. 
This structure included a laundry room, two maids rooms, a bathroom, a hall and 
cellar. 
1869                                 September 6: A well pump in the orchard was  restored to increase water supply. 161 
September 23: The old farmhouse was sold at auction and removed from  the 
premises. 162  Its removal opened a view of the meadow north of the house. 
October 13: The cellar hole left from  the farmhouse was filled. 163 
October 14:  Work on the library foundation began.164 
40 
~ 
 - 49 - 
1870                                  Charles Francis replaced the wooden fence mounted atop the front entry wall with 
a new wooden fence of lattice construction. 165 
April:  Construction on the stone library resumed. 166 
September: The stone library was  completed. 167  It measured 38' x 25', and was 
constructed with stone and brick walls, and a slate roof. The vegetable portion of 
the garden was  removed, and from  that time on the garden was  entirely devoted  to 
flowers . 168    It seems likely that at this time the low wall  extending from  the 
southwest corner of the house to the from entry wall, setting off the garden, was 
removed. 
1871                                  September 6:  Charles Francis noted in his diary that he planted  trees on the slope 
behind the house, and maples and tupelos in  the meadow. 169 
October: Charles Francis received notice of a possible land taking of 50 additional 
feet along the railroad bed for  the development of a new road (Newport Avenue). 
T he taking would require the removal of the ice house, cider house and barn. 
November 14: Charles Francis was abruptly called away to Geneva to settle the 
Alabama Claims. 
PHOTOGRAPH  OF THE FRONT  OF THE OLD  HOUSE, 1870. 
FIGURE 17 
Charles Francis's  new lattice-work fence and entry gates are 
clearly visible,  as  is the new east portico. T he elm  trees in  front 
of the house are quite large. The Beale House is visible through 
the woods in  the distance. The srone boundary wall  appears 
higher rhan  in earlier images. 
41 
~ 
 - 50 - 
1871                                  December 18: John Quincy Adams II wrote to his father that he was going to have 
the ice house refilled since the County Commissioner had made no decision about 
when the new road would be built. 170 
1872                                 June: A plan was completed by the County Engineer's Office,  Norfolk County 
Courthouse, showing the proposed taking of a 50-foot strip of land from the 
eastern boundary of the Adams property for the construction of Newport Avenue. 
November: Charles Francis and his family returned from Geneva. 
1873                                  January-February: Charles Francis met with the architectural firm of Cummings 
and Sears to discuss the design of a new structure providing stables for horses, cows 
and goats, a carriage room, hay loft and quarters for the coachman. The purpose of 
this building was to replace the buildings slated for removal in association with the 
construction of Newport Avenue (the farmhouse, cider-house, corn crib, barn and 
ice house). 
April 28: Ground was broken for the carriage house. 171 
April 30: CFA diary:  "The antiquated cider-house is  no more. Who would know 
this place as  my old grandfather's which I lived in 55 years ago, one of a large 
family of inmates."172 
August 4:  Grading was undertaken around the carriage house site, probably for a 
driveway, and a well was dug for the stable. 173  As built, the driveway entered from 
Newport Avenue along the south side of the carriage house and curved around to 
its main entrance, where the carriages were stored. Another entrance was also 
constructed which lead from Newport Avenue directly to the back door of the 
house. South of the driveway the ground was leveled off for a lawn which extended 
east and north to the new boundary. 
1873                                  September 22:   Charles Francis's earliest reference to the greenhouse, which is 
presumed to have been built this year:  "the fruit is  gone, and a greenhouse erected 
which furnishes flowers  that cost more than they are worth winter or summer." 174 
It is  unclear whether the current greenhouse is  the same structure because historical 
images of the structure look markedly different from its current appearance. 
However, if the greenhouse has  been replaced, it appears that the original location 
has been retained. 175 
November 6: The old woodshed was relocated from the northern corner of the Old 
House to the eastern boundary of the property. 176 
42 
~ 
 - 51 - 
November: The ice house and corn crib were removed from their location along 
the eastern boundary of the Adams property to make way for the construction of 
Newport Avenue. 177 
1874                               January 1: The new stable was ready for its tenants. 178  As built, the carriage house 
was a two-story, U-shaped structure measuring 95' x 50'.  The stone walls were 
interlaced with brick strips and the roof was clad with different-colored slates. A 
cupola and weather vane crowned the top of the building. The stable and 
coachman's quarters each occupied a wing, with the carriage room between them. 
Apparently for many years a corral for cows and goats stood next to the north side 
of the building. 
January 1:  Charles Francis noted in his diary his plans to remove the barn that he 
had erected in 1854 along the eastern boundary of the property and fill  in front of 
the boundary wall. 179    The front boundary wall was extended east from the house 
to the corner of the lot and north along Newport Avenue to the woodshed. 180 
April  13: The old stable facing Adams Street had been removed. 181 
1879                               August 4:  New York Times article entitled Charles Francis Adams, A  Great American 
Statesman,  mentioned a "well-kept gravel walk and tall hedges of carefully-clipped 
boxwood" in the garden, but made no reference to flowers. 182 
1880s                              Charles Francis planted a variety of trees on the east lawn. 183 
The Adams Family Trust was established to subdivide and sell Adams land south of 
Adams Street on Presidents Hill. 
43 
~ 
 - 52 - 
FIGURE 18 
Taken from a point across 
Adams Street, this phoro­
graph provides a clear view 
of the latticed front entry gate 
installed by Charles Francis 
Adams. The elm trees on the 
south side ofAdams Street 
appear to be banded. 
PHOTOGRAPH OF ADAMS  MANSION, C.1880. 
FIGURE 19 
View of the Adams Old 
House and garden from  the 
southwest. This image 
provides one ofthe earliest 
views of the servants wing, 
added in  1869-70. Boxwood 
hedges and lilac bushes are 
clearly shown. 
PHOTOGRAPH OF OLD  HOUSE,  BY BALDWIN COOLIDGE, 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS,  1882. 
44 
~ 
 - 53 - 
FIGURE 20 
Although shown in  a state 
of complete inundation, 
this image provides one of 
the few views of the back 
(northern) portion of the 
property prior ro  its 
development. 
VIEW  OF TH E  FLOOD  OF  r886. 
FIGURE 21 
Shows front yard with elm 
trees and lilacs  in full  bloom. 
VIEW OF  OLD  HOUSE TAKEN  FROM A  FIELD ACROSS  ADAMS  STREET,  1887-
45 
~ 
 - 54 - 
FIGURE 22 
Shows the portico and east 
lawn as developed by Charles 
Francis. T he front lawn is 
well shaded by relatively 
mature trees. A flower bed 
lines the front of the house, 
and a small circular bed is 
located at the southwest 
corner of the house. Some of 
the orchard  trees and a large 
spruce tree are visible behind 
the house, as are the pump 
and the clothesyard. 
PHOTOGRAPH  OF OLD  HOUSE TAKEN  FROM  SOUTHWEST CORNER OF 
PROPERTY, 1889. 
1886                                  November 21: Charles Francis Adams died. 
1889                                 June 6: Abigail Brooks Adams died. 
46 
~ 
 - 55 - 
Brooks Adams Period 
1891-1927 
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 
AND SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
Following the death of Charles Francis Adams his 
heirs conveyed their inheritance to a legal entity called 
the ''Adams Real Estate Trust," and reserved the right 
of use to Abigail until her death in 1889. The heirs of 
Charles Francis Adams included John Quincy Adams 
II  (1833-1894), Charles Francis Adams II  (1835-
1915), Henry Adams (1838-1918), and Brooks 
Adams ( 1848-1927). All of the heirs spent varying 
amounts of time at the Old House, but Brooks was 
the only one to have lived there permanently. Brooks 
moved to the Old House with his parents in 1849 and 
lived there and in Boston as  a child.  Following his 
marriage to Evelyn Davis in 1889 he used the Old 
House as  a summer home for three years.  In 1891  he 
formally took over management of the property, 
which he maintained until his death in 1927. 
Brooks Adams attended Harvard College 
and spent one year at Harvard Law School before 
accompanying his father,  Charles Francis, to Geneva 
to serve as  his secretary during the Alabama Claims 
arbitration. Upon his return, Brooks briefly practiced 
law,  but he soon abandoned that to focus his energy 
on historical research.  He published several books and 
lectured at Boston University Law School. Towards 
the end of his life he spent a great deal of time 
traveling abroad.  Brooks Adams had an ardent interest 
in American history and studied American silver, 
furniture and portraits. When in Quincy, he fre­
quently visited local historic sites. 
Like his father,  Brooks inherited a deep 
sentiment for the family seat and great interest in its 
preservation. When he took over the management of 
the Old House after his  marriage he found it quite 
run down.  Rather than introducing any new 
improvements, Brooks aimed to preserve and 
maintain the property. He clearly saw the potential of 
turning the house into a museum and began 
planning for the appropriate care of the house and its 
furnishings.  In 1906 he wrote to his brother Henry: 
ofits kind,  representing what it does,  the first 
century ofthe republic,  the home ofthree 
generations ofNew England gentlemen,  I 
know ofnothing to  equal it here or anywhere. 
It is complete,  unique and charming. 184 
Brooks focused on repairs to the Old House and 
wrought few changes on the surrounding landscape. 
He repaired the ceilings in two rooms, repainted the 
exterior of the house, removed the east portico and 
repaired the front porch. His few efforts to modern­
ize included the installation of central heating and a 
gas stove in the kitchen.  Brooks basically attempted 
to maintain the grounds and garden as  left by his 
parents.  However, he did establish the rose garden 
west of the library where he also installed Abigail's 
York Rose on a trellis.  His wife, Evelyn,  transplanted 
ferns  from the Blue Hills Reservation and installed 
candy grass along the front piazza. The greatest 
alteration to occur on the grounds during the Brooks 
Adams period was the replacement of the old 
wooden fence in front of the house with a brick wall 
and large front gates topped by wooden urns. 
Volume Nine of the Furnishings Report for the Adams 
NHS contains a lengthy reminiscence by Wilhelmina 
Harris about Brooks Adams' attitude towards the 
gardens and grounds. This section of the Harris 
report, while providing few specific dates regarding 
the evolution of the grounds, provides a strong sense 
of the character and appearance of the site at the end 
of Brooks's tenure. 
~ 
47 
 - 56 - 
Despite Brooks's conservative approach, the        buildings. Stimulated by naval contracts during World 
Adams property experienced major change in the               War I,  shipbuilding surpassed granite excavation to 
1920s, wrought largely by the construction of the              become the city's largest industry, attracting thousands 
Furnace Brook Parkway, which passed directly                    of new employees. Enhanced transportation and 
through the middle of the property. With the                     employment opportunities led to an unprecedented 
completion of the road in the early 1920s, the                    population expansion and associated building boom in 
sweeping expanse of open, gently sloped land north of     the  1920s. 
the orchard was lopped off,  effectively cutting the                              Brooks deeply regretted the impact of the 
estate in half. The Furnace Brook itself was realigned,        Furnace Brook Parkway and the changing nature of 
so  that rather than extending northward through the         Quincy itself.  He was concerned with the future of the 
center of the Adams property, it passed east-west                Old House, and he made efforts to make permanent 
adjacent and just to the south of the new parkway.             arrangements for its preservation. Apparently, in 1921, 
Grading for the parkway resulted in the creation of a         a member of the curatorial staff of the Boston Museum 
depressed roadbed running between the northern and       of Fine Arcs came out to discuss the possibility of the 
southern portions of the Adams property. This divide        museum caring for the estate, but an arrangement was 
was accentuated by tree planting along both sides of        not worked out. In the brief article written by 
the parkway which cut off any visual link which may        Wilhelmina Harris in  1969 entitled "The Brooks 
have existed between the two portions of the property.      Adams I Knew," Mrs. Harris states that around 1920 
More importantly, the decades following              Brooks Adams began to worry about what would 
World War I brought fundamental changes to the              happen to the Old House when he died.  Eventually, 
overall character and appearance of the City of                 however,  he decided to leave the fate of the Old House 
Quincy. The first decades of the 20th century were            up to the next generation, saying "I will fret no longer 
characterized by the accelerated transformation of            about the Old House, the library and garden; my 
Quincy's landscape from farms  to residential subdivi­        family has always met its responsibilities." 186 
sions.  By  1888, the Town of Quincy had officially 
become the City of Quincy. Subdivision activity and 
building construction took place throughout the city, 
but was most heavily concentrated in the area between 
Quincy Center and Dorchester. Maps of the area from 
this period show the neighboring Beale and Adams 
estates becoming more and more of a spatial anomaly, 
a large open area surrounded by an expanding 
network of small, single-family residential lots and 
houses. The subdivisions ofWollaston Heights (to the 
east and north of the Beale property) and Presidents 
Hill (land formerly owned by the Adams family across 
Adams Street from the Adams and Beale properties) 
continued to grow,  providing homes for affluent 
Boston commuters and successful Quincy business­
men. 185  To the south and west of the city, growth was 
largely linked to the still-expanding granite industry 
and included the development of concentrated 
workers housing and granite-related industrial 
48 
~ 
 - 57 - 
SITE CHRONOLOGY: 1891-1927 
FIGURE 2J 
These maps of the Adams 
estate and surrounding 
properties are of particular 
interest as  they show many 
changes  that occurred  in  the 
late 19th century, including 
the new carriage house and 
library,  and development of 
Newport Avenue running 
along the east side of the 
property.  Note the 
subdivision of the northern­
most portion of the Adams 
property and  the continued 
development of the northern 
portion of the Beale estate. 
MAP  DETAIL:  NORTHERN  PORTION  OF THE ADAMS  ESTATE AND 
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES, 1897. 
I 
I 
MAP  DETAIL:  SOUTHERN  PORTION  OF THE ADAMS  ESTATE A    D 
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES, 1897. 
49 
~ 
 - 58 - 
1890                                Abigail Adams' York rose was  transferred to its current location, the north side of 
the garden near the historic boxwood hedge,  because it was sunnier. 187 
1901                                A band of land through the center of the Adams property was  taken by the 
Metropolitan District Commission for  the construction of Furnace Brook Parkway. 
1903                                May 21: The Adams Real  Estate Trust granted to the Commonwealth of Massachu­
setts about 1.5 acres of land (Plot 5)  at the north end of the tract for the develop­
ment of the Furnace Brook Parkway. 188 
FIGURE 24 
ADAMS  GARDEN  AND  LIBRARY,  1903. 
50 
~ 
 - 59 - 
1906                                 Brooks Adams replaced front gates and fence with a new brick wall and wooden 
gates topped with decorative urns. 189 
April  15:  Brooks Adams wrote to his brother Henry, "We have now got the house 
painted, and the porch restored with the old flags  which I found all complete 
where they have been buried. The gates and walls are complete with the vines and 
shrubs, and the garden-we flatter ourselves-is prettier than the garden of Mme. 
de Sevigne at Vitre." 190 
FIGURE 25 
Shows the proposed route of 
the Furnace Brook Parkway 
(called Metropolitan 
Parkway)  and the resultant 
division of the Adams 
property into two distinct 
lots. The southern lot, where 
the house is  located measures 
4.15 acres. 
PLAN  OF  LAND  IN THE CITY OF  QUINCY, 1905. 
51 
~ 
 - 60 - 
FIGURE 26 
Shows the proposed new 
route of the Furnace Brook 
Parkway,  including the 
proposed  rerouting of the 
Furnace Brook. 
,II,,;,-.,  u/'Cr11. '9<'#/i' 
J1~A-
M/lu,-4' IYI/J,6 
/,f"()().9 
(;o/lJVl..l.lr'l,P,P"Y 
/J"c1('1? 
0 
1 
i 
i 
i 
i 
~ 
I 
i 
I 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
I 
i 
i 
! 
l'_;~. 
~           _.> 
......· 
/,ku/'/r.:· I/. S/11 , t,,., 
~ Jjfo,f_ 
CJ 
Ln;;.;,-J,.,: 
ATLAS  OF THE CITY OF  QUINCY,  COMPILED  BY  EARNEST W.  BRANCH, 1907. 
52 
~ 
 - 61 - 
FIGURE 27 
Orchard and laundry yard are 
visible in  the distance. 
"OLD  HOUSE,  EAST  LAWN,  EARLY  SPRING" 1915. 
1916                                  Brooks Adams built a two-car garage below the carriage house. Apparencly, he felt 
chat automobiles presented the risk of fire and would not allow chem in  the 
carriage house. The garage was  a one-room structure 27' x 23', constructed of 
fireproof cement block walls with a concrete roof and a slate roof A shore drive 
connected the garage with the street. 191 
FIGURE 28 
Shows a wooden gate or 
wall on the east side of the 
building and wooden 
coverings over the boxwood 
hedge.  Elm  trees in  the back­
ground appear ro  be in  poor 
health.  Pharo rerouched ro 
enhance quality. 
VIEW OF THE LIBRARY IN WINTER, 1920. 
53 
~ 
 - 62 - 
1920                               The east portico of the Old House was  removed. 
1921                                The Old House was painted. 
A member of the curatorial staff of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts came out to 
discuss the possibility of the museum caring for the estate, but an arrangement was 
not worked out. 
1923                                A portion of a City of Quincy Tax Map, dated 1923, shows the proposed route of 
the Furnace Brook Parkway passing through the middle of the Adams property just 
north of the orchard. However, at this point the approximately seven back acres of 
the property are still shown as  undeveloped. 
1924                                Quincy Assessor's Office assessed the buildings at the Old House site at $14,500; 
the land at $36,150 for a total value of $50,650. The area was measured as  180,774 
square feet. 192 
According to Quincy assessors  records,  the portion of the Adams property north of 
Furnace Brook Parkway was subdivided into smaller lots by this time. 193 
1924-25                          Candy grass was planted in front of front wall. 194 
1927                                Brooks Adams died. 
It appears that the portion of the Furnace Brook Parkway cutting through the 
Adams and Beale properties was fully completed around 1927. The southern 
portion of the Adams property measured 4.15 acres;  the northern portion 6.94 
acres. An article in the Quincy Patriot Ledger announced that streetlights were 
being installed along the Parkway at that time. 195 
1927                               The city assessed the buildings at the Old House at $15,000 and the land at 
$45,000 for a total value of $60,000.196  These figures  mark a slight increase in value 
since 1925. 
54 
~ 
 - 63 - 
Adams Memorial Society Period 
1927-1946 
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND AND 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
Following the death of Brooks Adams in  1927, the 
Adams Memorial Society was created to ensure the 
care of the Old House as  a "museum and shrine" to 
the Adams family. 197 The purpose of the organization 
was 
''to  acquire the house together with any and 
all land and buildings appurtenant to  the 
house or in the immediate vicinity thereof, 
and to  restore, preserve and maintain said 
premises when so acquired or any additions 
thereto or improvements thereon as a place 
ofhistoric andpublic interest and as an 
educational exhibit and notfor profit,  and 
with the purpose offostering civic virtue 
andpatriotism. "198 
An agreement was made with the City of Quincy that 
taxes would be remitted if the public was admitted, 
and the Old House was opened to visitors on a 
limited basis in the summer of 1927. 
Aside from a brief exception in the 1940s, 
no member of the Adams family lived at the Old 
House during this period, though Henry Adams II 
maintained an active interest in the site.  During much 
of this period the estate was cared for by a handyman 
named Francis McCormick and a gardener named 
Martin Hyland. 
There is  relatively little documentation, 
either graphic or written, about the condition of the 
Old House landscape during the 1920s and early 
1930s. The limited number of photographs from this 
period show the grounds as  somewhat neglected and 
overgrown. In fact,  the Adams Memorial Society made 
few repairs to the house or grounds, as  admission fees 
contributed little to cover the cost of maintenance. 
In 1936 the Historic American Building 
Survey of the Works Progress Administration prepared 
measured drawings of the buildings and grounds at 
the Old House site. The plan of the garden includes 
the name and location of all vegetation, providing a 
wealth of information about the conditions of the 
grounds at that time. 
Throughout this period Quincy continued 
to change and grow, which, in turn, had an impact on 
the nature of the area immediately surrounding the 
Old House. The portion of the property to the north 
of Furnace Brook Parkway was sold and subdivided 
for development, as was  the remaining portion of the 
Adams property at the foot of Presidents Hill. 
55 
~ 
 - 64 - 
SITE CHRONOLOGY: 1927-1946 
FIGURES  29-32 
Includes views of the west 
facade of the house and the 
Stone Library. These images 
show the garden as  very 
overgrown during the Adams 
Memorial Society period. 
FOUR BLACK AND  WHITE PHOTOGRAPHS  OF 
THE GARDEN  AT THE OLD  HOUSE,  c.r92os. 
56 
~ 
 - 65 - 
FIGURE]] 
This view shows the 
appearance of the house 
following the removal of the 
eastern  portico (1920), and 
with  the house painted white. 
PHOTOGRAPH  OF  OLD  HOUSE WITHOUT EASTERN  PORTICO, 
A .F.  SHURROCKS  PHOTOGRAPHY CO.,  1928. 
FIGUREJ4 
From the southwest. Shows, 
though not clearly,  the new 
front gate and brick wall. 
PHOTOGRAPH  OF  OLD  HOUSE  FROM THE SOUTHWEST, 
A .F.  SHURROCKS  PHOTOGRAPHY CO.,  1928. 
57 
~ 
 - 66 - 
FIGURE 35 
A view of the garden and the 
western facade of the Adams 
mansion. The garden appears 
overgrown and obscures the 
view of the boxwood shrubs. 
Vines cover the side of the 
house and the library. 
1930 
1935 
1938 
1940s 
"A WALK  IN  THE FLOWER GARDEN,  ADAMS  MANSION,  QUINCY, 
MASSACHUSETTS."  1928. 
The portion of the Adams property north of Furnace Brook Parkway was sold and 
subdivided for development. 199 
The remaining portion of the Adams property located on the south side ofAdams 
Street at the foot of Presidents Hill was sold to Mr.  Persey Xerxia, who built the 
brick house immediately across  from  the Adams NHS.200 
The City of Quincy assessed the buildings at $13,000 and the land at $37,000 for 
a rota! value of $50,650. This marks a decrease in the value of the property since 
1927. The property's area was  measured as  177,763 square feet,  which also  marks a 
slight decrease in size.  201 
Several trees were lost in the 1938 hurricane, including three oaks and one 
American white beech planted by the Adams Memorial Society. 
For a brief period during World War II, the Old House was  occupied by John 
Quincy Adams, a distant relative who was an architect with a civilian job at the 
Fore River Shipyard in Quincy.  However,  owing ro  a shortage of funds and the lack 
of a permanent resident,  the house suffered from neglect.202 
58 
~ 
 - 67 - 
FIGURE 36 
Shows the earliest of many 
new houses fronting on the 
north side of the newly 
constructed Furnace Brook 
Parkway in what was  formerly 
the outlying portions of the 
Adams and Beale estates. By 
1940, what was once the 
northern portion of the 
Adams estate was divided into 
numerous small  residential 
lots, effectively completing 
the infill of this small portion 
of Quincy. 
-------------F-u-~-
PLAN 
:5ca le-  I:.. 4-0 
A  PORTION  OF THE PLAN  OF  FURNACE  BROOK  PARKWAY,  C.  1945. 
FIGURE 37 
-    l  t  G E.   1'I    D. - .  , 
~=:~~:::::.::i:,;if~::. 
__.,_ -   GIU,1UTt.•   W,U. \.    ~;.o'rPO.JT 
---    & ~l<K    WAl..L 
Q  S.1-   -    .&TO'Mt.  ao,iM o              a   -   ) T l,IM~ 
0-'t'"'-t..L.s            ~;:',~,w•vas 
E:ll35!f1 -   $,-•"'-   w...uc. 
U.(O'P.D~D   19 >b  -   h,ouol-t  C.(l\1Ul.)y   o, 
M.P.. . ·u ..~~'I'   ,ti.1)1\M~   I.    w"o  ~i..so  Gc•'ft.  "111cw.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1burtxn i                   j 
VA\.U l~Lt.  ll.$:S1 ~1' AM.C.1..  1"4   o&n,1 .. 1Nr.   110.,.oq1 c.a 1.   01.'1'1'1. . 
~C. A\.. f,.      O'F     OE'(.\Mlft.--.S. 
~O     10    0                      !JO 
OU TLI N~       P   LA  1-1 
W..".1.V.I.II.C.".".".'V.U..C.M. I
_, 1  •1 2~ 
HABS  DRAWING OF  ADAMS  SITE,  1936. 
59 
~ 
 - 68 - 
FIGURE 38 
DRAWING  OF ADAMS  FLOWER GARDEN, 
HISTORIC AMERICAN  BUILDING  SURVEY 1941. 
60 
~ 
 - 69 - 
National Park Service Period 
1946 to Present 
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND AND 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
Near the end ofWorld War II,  Congressman 
Wigglesworth of Massachusetts contacted Director 
Newton B.  Drury of the National Park Service to 
indicate that the Adams family was interested in 
deeding the Old House property to the United States 
government to be maintained as  a national museum. 
Despite the distraction of the ongoing war,  Secretary 
of the Interior Harold L.  Ickes  requested the approval 
of President Franklin D. Roosevelt for the acquisition, 
which was granted on March 7,  1945. On September 
23,  1946 the deed of transfer was signed by the 
Memorial Society, and recorded at the Norfolk 
County seat in Dedham, Massachusetts.  On Decem­
ber 9 the Secretary of the Interior officially designated 
the 4.6-acre property as  the Adams Mansion National 
Historic Site. The deed specified that the historic site 
will "perpetuate the memory of the four generations 
of the Adams family who occupied the Old House 
from  1788-1927." 
Since acquisition of the site,  the goal of the 
National Park Service has been to maintain it as  it had 
been left by the Adamses at the end of Brooks Adams' 
lifetime (1927). This goal was specified in the deed of 
gift which conveyed the site from the Adams Memo­
rial Society to the U.S.  Government. That goal 
notwithstanding, a certain amount of change has 
occurred on the site owing to practical concerns and 
management goals.  One of the more notable changes 
has been the expansion of the site with the acquisition 
of a small parcel of land adjacent to Furnace Brook 
Parkway and a portion of the former Beale Estate. 
These acquisitions were intended to protect the 
character of the site and the surrounding area. Aside 
from these new acquisitions, changes at the site have 
been minimal and have focused on the protection of 
historic fabric. 
61 
~ 
 - 70 - 
SITE CHRONOLOGY: 1946 TO PRESENT 
1946                                September 23: The Old House, garden, library and other buildings with 4.06 acres 
of land was donated by the Adams family to  the United States Government. 
December 9: The federal government accepted the gift from  the Adams family and 
designated the site as  the Adams Mansion National Historic Site. 
1946                                Photographer Abbey Rowe documented the old house using black and white 
photographs. Set includes approximately 24 black-and-white photos of the grounds 
and the surrounding area. 
1947                               Spring:  Raymond Corey was appointed custodian of the Adams site. 
The Old House was  painted grey at the request of the Adams family. 
1948                                May 3: Wilhelmina Harris was appointed site manager. 
FIGURE 39 
Built in  1916, this structure 
was entirely constructed of 
fireproof materials:  cement 
floor,  cinderblock walls and 
slate roof. 
BROOKS  ADAMs's  GARAGE,  1947-
62 
~ 
 - 71 - 
1946- 66                           Fourteen trees were replaced and the duck pond was  restored. 
1950                               November 26: Wilhelmina Harris was appointed superintendent of the Adams 
National Historic Site. 
1951                                 Garage built by Brooks Adams was demolished.203 
1952                                An order of November 26,  1952 by the Acting Secretary of the Interior, designated 
an additional parcel of .72 acres as  part of the Adams National Historical Site. This 
land was donated by the Metropolitan District Commission. 
FIGURE40 
Shows garden as very near, 
in  sharp contrast to rhe earlier 
photos supposed to  be from 
the Adams Memorial period. 
TWO  PHOTOGRAPHS  OF ADAMS  GARDEN,  1959. 
63 
~ 
 - 72 - 
1959                                The Old Colony Line,  running along the east side of the property, closed. 
1960s                                Legislation was introduced in Congress to add the 3.68-acre Beale property and a 
1.4-acre parcel south ofAdams Street which was at one time part of the Adams 
property to the Adams National Historic Site.204 
1971                                September: MBTA completed Red Line to Quincy Center, using the tracks of the 
Old Colony Line. As constructed, the new rapid transit line ran along a depressed 
track bed immediately parallel to Newport Avenue and adjacent to the eastern 
boundary of the Adams National Historic Site before entering into an underpass 
terminating at the Quincy Center T-stop. 205 
1972                               An act ofApril  11,  1972 (86 Stat 120) authorized the boundary of the Adams 
National Historic Site to be expanded to include the neighboring Beale Estate 
(3.68 acres). 
64 
~ 
 - 73 - 
Description ofExisting Conditions 
1996 
The following is  a description of the condition and 
appearance of the landscape at the Adams National 
Historic Site as  documented in the summer of 1996. 
Refer to the 1927 Period Plan on p.  68 and the 1996 
Existing Conditions Plan on p.  69 to aid in locating 
the features addressed in this section. 
The Adams National Historic Site is  located 
just west of Quincy Center and bounded by Adams 
Street to the south, Newport Avenue to the east, 
Furnace Brook Parkway to the north and a private 
residence to the west. A solid, three-foot-high, dressed 
stone wall with granite coping surrounds the south 
and east sides of the property from Adams Street to 
the Furnace Brook Parkway. This wall steps up at 
grade changes and is  broken at five locations by 
square, granite pillars with pyramidal caps.  Near the 
entrance, this wall is  topped with a wire trellis 
supporting a mass of Virginia creeper. 
At the main entrance to the site on Adams 
Street the wall changes from dressed stone to a four­
foot brick panel. Also  marking the entrance are six 
tapered, hexagonal granite hitching posts set into the 
grass strip between the sidewalk and Adams Street. 
Leading into the site are two six-paneled, wooden 
gates with decorative spindles on top and bracketed 
with  14-inch square granite pillars topped with 
wooden caps and urns.  Passing through the gates and 
down a single step,  two parallel flagstone paths pass 
through the small, enclosed front yard to the covered 
piazza which marks the front of the Old House. A 
small square oflawn lies  between the two paths. The 
path to the west is  lined by three lilac bushes on each 
side.  Both the inside of the front wall and the outer 
edge of the front piazza are lined with a low border of 
Virginia creeper, fern and candy grass. 
The Old House itself is  a two-story, gam­
brel-roofed, brick structure sided with painted 
clapboards. This somewhat idiosyncratic structure has 
been added onto numerous times.  It features five 
front dormer windows and a two-story ell addition on 
the western side. The long front piazza has a flat roof 
held up by slender columns and faced with a narrow 
trellis planted with riverbank grape.  (For more 
detailed information about the structure and interior 
plan of the Old House, consult the Historic Structures 
Report.) 
A narrow, stone-dust path lined with a low 
boxwood hedge leads from the front yard to the 
formal garden to the west of the Old House. The 
garden consists of four rectangular beds, each defined 
with a stone dust path bounded by low boxwood 
hedges. Three of the beds are lined with flower 
borders of mixed annuals and perennials. The fourth 
bed contains an enormous old yellowwood tree with 
horizontal branches extending out across  the western 
half of the garden. At the center of each bed is  a flat 
panel of clipped grass. Walking the length of the 
garden provides the opportunity to look back at the 
large wisteria vine and smaller honeysuckle vine 
growing up the western facade of the Old House and 
the bed of delphiniums planted along the base of the 
house. Along the northern side of the garden is  a 
rectangular rose bed, which includes Abigail's York 
Rose on a small trellis. This rose bed is  bounded to its 
north by a lilac hedge and a black walnut tree, which 
effectively encloses the garden by blocking all views to 
the north. 
In the northeast corner of the formal garden, 
immediately adjacent to the northwest corner of the 
65 
~ 
 - 74 - 
Old House, is  the library. This one-story, side gabled, 
stone structure features  brick quoins, French doors on 
the south, west and north sides, and a skylight on the 
north slope of the roof The entry is  marked by 
massive stone brackets. Mature ivy and wisteria vines 
cover the south and west facades. 
To the east of the Old House in the south­
east corner of the site is  a large expanse of lawn 
planted with mature deciduous trees including 
American elm, red oak, European beech,   Norway 
maple and horsechestnut. A small cluster of lilac and 
mockorange bushes planted around the northwest 
corner of the house serve as  an understory for these 
graceful canopy trees.  Known as  the "east lawn," this 
area is  enclosed by the stone boundary wall along the 
Adams Street and Newport Avenue sides and slopes 
gently down to the north and west. 
Along the eastern edge of the site the 
boundary wall is  broken by two structures fronting 
directly onto Newport Avenue:  the large, granite 
carriage house and a small, one-story shed. The 
carriage house is  a two-story Victorian Gothic 
structure built in a U-shaped plan, with a slate roof 
and central, spired tower. The simple, one-story shed 
is  clad with cedar shingles and has a front wall with 
three doorways marked with blind arches. A narrow 
asphalt service drive leads into the site from Newport 
Avenue, passes between the carriage house and shed 
and extends to the northeast corner of the Old House. 
Another narrow service drive provides access  to the 
site from a point just north of the carriage house and 
leads to the informal parking area surrounding it. A 
small cluster of black cherry trees along the western 
side of the carriage house serve to partially screen 
from view the parking area and service drive. 
To the north of the Old House the property 
slopes down to the Furnace Brook and Furnace Brook 
Parkway.  Closer to the house at the top of the hill,  the 
lawn is  planted with mature deciduous trees, includ­
ing Norway maple, sycamore maple, Scotch elm and 
European beech. The eastern portion of the hillside 
then extends down in open lawn, marked only by a 
well,  now backfilled for safety purposes, located at the 
northeast corner of the servant's ell and a drying yard 
made with nine posts set in a square. 
At the bottom of the hill is  a shallow, 
kidney-shaped duck pond with a gravel base and a 
boxed wooden culvert at the northern end. Through­
out the year the exact dimensions of the pond change 
with the water level. Just to the west of the pond is  a 
simple greenhouse, measuring 30' x 11' with a 
painted concrete base and glass top supported by a 
wooden frame. Adjacent to and associated with the 
greenhouse is  a rectangular planting bed containing 
nursery plants for the garden. 
The western portion of the back lawn is 
planted in an orchard which includes a wide variety of 
apple, peach, pear,  plum, quince, cherry and walnut 
trees in an informal arrangement. In the spring the 
orchard is  a sea of blue and yellow as  thousands of 
spring bulbs come into bloom. Throughout the spring 
and summer the grasses in the orchard are left to grow 
tall since historically they would have been grown and 
cut for hay. 
The northern boundary of the site is  marked 
by the Furnace Brook, which runs through a narrow 
concrete channel at depths ranging from two to four 
feet.  Running along this boundary is  a relatively dense 
planting of shrubs and trees including forsythia, 
dogwood, honeysuckle and sycamore which screens 
the adjacent Furnace Brook Parkway from view. 
Cutting through the middle of the park 
along what used to be the western boundary of the 
Adams property is  an extensive line of trees including 
maple, oak and black cherry. This planting of trees 
marks the location of the boundary between the Beale 
and Adams properties and provides an effective visual 
screen between the two historically distinct portions 
of the park. 
66 
~ 
 - 75 - 
THE BEALE ESTATE 
The western portion of the Adams National Historic 
Site is  occupied by a portion of the former Beale 
estate. Though currently included within the bound­
ary of the NHS its history and evolution is  distinct 
from that of the Adams property. Indeed, the primary 
justification for expanding the boundary of the 
Adams NHS to include the Beale estate was  to 
provide an appropriate visual buffer from adjacent 
development. Consequently, the following description 
is somewhat cursory in nature.  For more information 
on the history and evolution of the Beale property, 
refer to the Cultural Landscape Reportfor the Beale 
House (Hohmann and Lacy,  1994). 
Like the Adams Old House, the main 
entrance to the Beale Estate is from Adams Street. 
The front boundary of the property is  marked by a 
28-inch-high stone wall with quarried granite coping 
and granite, obelisk-shaped pillars.  Near the entrance 
to the site there is  a ten-foot opening in the boundary 
wall, which then changes to a three-foot-high iron 
fence with one-inch iron bars placed six inches on 
center. The front boundary is  also marked by an 
informal border of ash, oak, black cherry and maple 
with an understory of euonymous and yew. 
A long, graveled entry drive leads through 
the front of the Beale property to the front of the 
house. The house is  obscured from the road by several 
large shade trees including a large linden and tulip 
tree.  Only one elm remains of the row ofAmerican 
elms that historically lined the driveway. To the east of 
the entry drive is  a large, open lawn which extends to 
the historic edge of the Adams property. To the west 
the ground slopes gradually down to the Furnace 
Brook, which is  no longer channelized at this point. 
The Beale house itself is  a three-story, 
Adams-style house with a hipped roof with cupola 
and balustrade at the roof line. The front entrance 
features an Ionic, columned triangular pedimented 
entry, and a small ell extends off the north of the 
house.  Foundation plantings along the south and west 
facades of the house include yew,  boxwood, lilacs and 
Japanese holly. 
To the west of the Beale house is  a small 
path leading back to the garden. The path is  lined 
with overgrown yews and lilacs. To the west, the land 
slopes sharply down to the Furnace Brook. 
To the east of the house the driveway 
extends into a circular turn-around centered by an 
aging butternut tree and fronting on a small carriage 
house. This two-story, Greek-Revival, wood-frame 
structure has a gable end and triangular pediment 
centered over the former stable door, and flanking 
one-story, hipped roof wings. A low picket fence 
surrounds a diminutive front yard planted with a large 
maple tree. To the rear of the carriage house is  an 
enclosed service yard planted with grass and featuring 
a small picnic table.  Extending out from the north­
west corner of the carriage house is  a double row of 
Scotch pines, which screen both the sound and sight 
of the nearby Furnace Brook Parkway.  Between the 
row of pines and the house are several clusters of 
shrubs including roses, quince and wild raspberries. 
To the rear of the Beale house is  a very 
overgrown formal garden consisting of a tall, privet 
hedge surrounding the scraggly remains of a flower 
garden. Within the garden are the remnants of 
cultivated plantings including rhododendrons, azaleas, 
day-lilies and phlox, as well as  an assortment ofweeds, 
grasses,  brambles and poison ivy.  A rusted sundial sits 
in the center of the garden. The garden is  shaded on 
the west side by a tall horsechestnut tree, which has 
been the nesting site for red-tailed hawk for several 
years. To the northeast of the formal garden through a 
small clump of spruce trees is  a large, open expanse of 
lawn enclosed with evergreen trees.  Currently owned 
by the Metropolitan District Commission, this was 
once part of the Beale property. 
67 
~ 
 - 76 - 
~ 
'ti 
tTj 
~ 
.-4 
0 
tJ 
'ti 
~ 
> 
~ 
H 
''°N 
l 
Beale House 
Carriage 
House 
tj: '\   ,,•' 
-; 
~ 
········ 
NPS 
Boundary 
Stone 
Library 
North 
..~ .     ..     I 
Wood 
House 
Beale Property 
1~ 
~ 
~ 
Old House                                             ~ 
Adams Property 
~ 
 - 77 - 
~ 
t'rj 
~ 
e""n" 
~ 
z""" 
C) 
(") 
0 
z 
t:i 
"~""  
0"""  
zen  
H 
""O''°°' . 
1~ 
1 
- -
/:'l/r. 
.,,<Jee 13 
roolr                                                                                                                                                                     North 
u.  ..         J 
4
j 
..~_·:. 
I,  -
.....  .... 
~: .-•. 
.,,, -...
':\_\
::...,_     ;, 
·.·:.., 
NPS 
Boundary 
,   ,                ,            ,   \j       Wood 
n        '      ··:·'. --r,   Shed
~ - ~I
'\ 
\t 
r         '\
Old House 
I 
Beale Property                                                              Adams Property 
 - 78 - 
End Notes 
Historical information on Quincy is  adapted from 
the National Register Nomination for the Quincy 
Multiple Resource Area,  1989. 
William Churchill Edwards, Historic Quincy, 
Massachusetts (Quincy, MA:  1955, privately 
printed). 
Helen Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings 
Shown on Historic Base Map ofthe Adams National 
Historic Site.  (An unpublished report prepared for 
the National Park Service, Adams National 
Historic Site,  1965): 4 
Suffolk County Registry of Deeds, State House, 
Boston, MA. Cited in Wilhelmina Harris, 
Furnishings Report for the Old House,  Adams 
National Historic Site, Vol.  9,  (1966-68): 815. 
Helen L.  Nelson, Historical Research Report:  The 
Structural History ofthe Old House,  Adams 
National Historic Site,  Quincy,  Massachusetts (An 
unpublished report prepared for the National Park 
Service, Adams National Historic Site,  1963): 2. 
Suffolk County Probate Records,  State House, 
Boston, Massachusetts, Libra 2, Folio 98. Cited in 
Nelson, Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  2. 
Suffolk County Registry,  Libra 4,  Folio 5.  Cited 
in Nelson,  Structural History ofthe Old House, 
1963, p.  2. 
Ezekiel Sargent MSS Collection, Quincy Histori­
cal Society, "Quincy Centre" p.  26. Cited in 
Nelson, Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  2. 
Suffolk County Registry,  Libra 44, Folio  128. 
(Cited in Peterson, Charles, Historic Structures 
Report,  Part l· The Adams Mansion, Adams 
National Historic Site.  1963, 8.) 
1°  Charles E.  Peterson, Historic Structures Report for 
the Adams Mansion.  National Park Service, U.S. 
Department of the Interior.  1963,  41. 
Suffolk County Registry,  Libra 44, Folio  128 and 
Folio  155. Cited in Nelson, Structural History of 
the Old House,  p.  3. 
12      Apparently Thomas Crosby owned an inn in the 
vicinity of the bend ofAdams Street near what is 
now the Eventide Home. Harris, Furnishings 
Report, Vol.  9, p.  816. 
13        Suffolk County Registry,  Libra 44, Folio  131. 
Cited in Nelson, Structural History ofthe Old 
House,  p.  3. 
14      Peterson, Historic Structures Report,  p.  43. 
15       Last Will and Testament of Leonard Vassall,  24 
June 1737. Cited in Peterson, Historic Structures 
Report, p.  11. 
16      Papers ofTemple, Nelson, Lloyd, Vassall and 
Borland Families,  Houghton Library,  Harvard 
University,  Cambridge, MA. Cited in Nelson, 
Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  5. 
17      John Borland, MS,  Massachusetts Historical 
Society, misc.  bound volumes. Cited in Nelson, 
Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  6. 
18      James H. Stark,  The Loyalists ofMassachusetts and 
the other side for the American Revolution.,  (Boston, 
1910): 251. Cited in Nelson, Historic Research 
Report,  p.  7. 
19      Nelson, Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  1. 
20      Nelson, Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  1. 
21       Inventory, Estate ofJohn Borland, Suffolk County 
Probate, 78:202. Cited in Nelson, Structural 
History ofthe Old House,  p.  3. 
22      Boston Independent Chronicle,  20 April  1780. 
Cited in Nelson, Structural History ofthe Old 
House,  p.  5. 
23      Harris, Historic Furnishings Report,  Vol  9, p.  818. 
24     Abigail Adams to John Adams,  Braintree, 27 
December 1783, APM #362. Cited in Nelson, 
Historic Research Report,  p.  7. 
25      Royall Tyler to John Adams, Braintree, 27 August 
1784, APM #363. Cited in Nelson, Structural 
History ofthe Old House,  p.  8. 
70 
~ 
11 
 - 79 - 
26      Cotton Tufts to Abigail Adams, Boston, 30 June 
1787, APM #370. Cited in Nelson, Structural 
History ofthe Old House,  p.  8. 
27      Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9, p.  819. 
28      Mary Cranch to Abigail Adams,  Braintree, 28 
September 1786, APM #368. Cited in Nelson, 
Structural History ofthe Old House,  Chapter II, 8. 
29      Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9,  820. 
30      Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p. 4. 
31      Abigail Adams to Mrs. William Smith, Braintree, 
7 July 1788.  Cited in L.H. Butterfield, Marc 
Freidlaender, Wendell D. Garrett, ed.  The Adamses 
at Home: Accounts by Visitors to  the old House in 
Quincy.  (Colonial Society of Massachusetts,  1970): 
10. 
32     John Adams to Thomas Brand Hollis, Braintree, 
3 December 1788. Cited in Butterfield et.  al.,  ed. 
p.  11. 
33     Jacques Pierre Brissot de Warville. New Travels  in 
the United States ofAmerica,  1788, translated by 
Mara Soceanu Vamos and Durand Echeverria, 
edited by Durand Echeverria,  (Cambridge,  1964): 
101-103.  Cited in Butterfield, et.  al., p.  12. 
34      Paul Nagel, Descent .from Glory: Four Generations 
ofthe john Adams Family,  (New York:  Oxford 
University Press,  1983): 47. 
35      Ann Leighton, American Gardens ofthe Nineteenth 
Century,  (Amherst:  University of Massachusetts 
Press,  1987):  147. 
36     John Stilgoe, Borderlands:  Origins ofthe American 
Suburbs,  (New Haven: Yale  University Press, 
1988): 95. 
37     Adams Papers, 1:88, 89. Cited in Peterson, Historic 
Structures Report,  p.  66. 
38      Alice G.B. Lockwood, Ed.,  Gardens ofColony 
and State, Vol.  1 (New York,  1931): 50. 
39      Nagel, p.  16. 
40      William Churchill Edwards, Historic Quincy, 
Massachusetts.  (City of Quincy,  1957): 63. 
41       Stilgoe,  Common Landscape ofAmerica,  1850-
1845, (New Haven: Yale  University Press,  1982): 
206. 
42      CFA Diary, 25 September 1880. Cited in 
Peterson, Historic Structures Report,  Part I,  p.  68. 
43      Mary Cranch to Abigail Adams, Braintree, 23 
September 1787, APM #370. Cited in Nelson, 
Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  1. 
44      Acreage from Harris, Furnishings Report,  Vol.  9, 
p.  819. 
45      Suffolk County Registry of Deeds, Boston, MA, 
161:123. Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative 
ofBuildings,  p.  3. 
46     Tufts to Abigail Adams, Boston, 30 June 1787. 
Reel 370. Cited in Peterson, Historic Structures 
Report, p.  17. 
47     John Quincy Adams Diary, 20 April  1788, APM 
#15. Cited in Nelson, Structural History ofthe Old 
House,  p.  5. 
48      Abigail Adams (M) to Mary Cranch,  10 October 
1790. Stewart Mitchell, New Letters ofAbigail 
Adams,  1788-1801,  (Boston,  1947): 60. From 
Peterson, Historic Structures Report,  p. 20. 
49      M   to JA,  Braintree, 31  May 1789, APM #372. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  50. 
50     M   to Mary Cranch, New York,  10 October 1790, 
New Letters, p.  61. Cited in Skeen, Documentary 
Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  57.) 
51       M   to Mary Cranch,  18 April  1791. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings, p.  59. 
52      Mary Cranch to M, Braintree, October 1791, 
APM #375. Cited in Skeen, Documentary 
Narrative ofBuildings, p.  9. 
53      Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9, p.  821. 
54      JA Diary,  Butterfield, 3:234, 27 July 1796. Cited 
in Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,   p. 
71. 
55      M   Diary, Butterfield, 3:234, 27 January and July 
1796. Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings, p.  71. 
56      Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  68. 
57     JA Diary,  19 August  1796. Butterfield, 3:242. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings, p.  72. 
 - 80 - 
58      JA Diary,  29 August  1796, Butterfield, 3:245. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings, p.  72. 
59      JA Diary, 7 September 1796, Butterfield, 3: 246. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  74. 
60      AA to C. Tufts,  14 June 1797, APM #383. Cited 
in Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings, 31. 
61       Mary Cranch to AA,  Quincy, June 1797, APM 
#348. Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  50. 
62      Harris, Furnishings Report,  Vol.  9,  p.  828. 
63      Peterson, Historic Structures Report,   p.  20. 
64      JA to AA,  Philadelphia,  14 December 1798, APM, 
#392. Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  31. 
65      Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings, 
p.  20-23. 
66      Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  33. 
67      The woodshed, which was moved to its current 
location next to the carriage house in 1869, is  the 
only one ofJohn Adams's farm buildings to 
survive on the grounds. 
68      Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings, p.  68. 
69      AA to C. Tufts  13 November,  1799, APM #369. 
From Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings, 
p.  28. 
70      Harris, Furnishings Report,  Vol.  1,  p.  119. 
71       AA to Mary Cranch, 26 April,  1800, New Letters, 
p.  248-9. From Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  59. 
72      AA to Mrs. Catherine Johnson, Quincy, 8 May 
1801, APM #400. Cited in Skeen, Documentary 
Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  59. 
73      AA to Thomas Boylston Adams, 21  July 1801. 
Reel 401. Cited in Peterson, Historic Structures 
Report, p.  21. 
74      From Josiah Quincy, Figures ofthe Past,  (Boston, 
1926): 77-79. 
75      JA to Francis Jackson, Quincy,  19 October 1821, 
APM #124. Cited in Skeen, Documentary 
Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  74. 
76      JA to G.W Adams, Quincy,  10 October 1822. 
APM #124. Cited in Skeen, Documentary 
Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  74. 
77      Royall, Ann Newport.  Sketches ofHistory,  Life and 
Manners in the  United States.  New Haven,  1826, p. 
347-349. Cited in Butterfield, et al,  ed.  32. 
78      CFA Diary,  26 September 1845. Cited in Harris, 
Furnishings Report, Vol.  9,  834. 
79      David Lee Child, Homes ofAmerican Statesmen, 
(New York,  1854): 319-323. Cited in Butterfield, 
ed. p.  48. 
80      One of the greatest proponents of the nineteenth 
century horticultural movement was Andrew 
Jackson Downing, a nurseryman and landscape 
architect from Newburgh, New York. The author 
ofA  Treatise on  the Theory and Practice ofLandscape 
Gardening, Adapted to North America (1841) and 
Cottage Residences; or,  a Series ofDesigns for Rural 
Cottages and Cottage Villas  (1844),  Downing 
believed strongly that horticulture and gardening 
had the potential to cure America of its moral 
failings.  Horticulture, explained Downing, "has 
the incalculable advantage of fostering only the 
purest feelings,  and refining rather than hardening 
the heart." Although the extent or exact nature of 
their relationship is  not known, it is  known that 
Downing visited the Old House in 1841  and 
1845, and presented John Quincy Adams with a 
personally inscribed copy ofA  Treatise on  the 
Theory and Practice ofLandscape Gardening  in 
1841. 
81       See Tamara P.  Thornton, "Horticulture and 
American Character." In Walter Punch, ed. 
Keeping Eden: A  History ofGardening in America, 
(Boston:  Bullfinch Press,  1992). 
82      Skeen,  Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  63. 
83     John Quincy Adams Diary, Quincy, July 13,  1826, 
APM #38. Cited in Nelson, Structural History of 
the  Old House,  p.  1. 
84     Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  62. 
85      JQA Diary, 23 July 1826, APM #38. Cited in 
Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  52. 
86      Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol  1, p.  34. 
72 
~ 
 - 81 - 
87      ]QA Diary, 3 October 1827, APM #40. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  63. 
88      Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.63. 
89      CPA Diary,  5 April  1828. Cited in Harris, 
Furnishings Report,  Vol.  9,  p.  827. 
9° CPA to Louisa Catherine Adams (LCA),  Boston, 
18 April  1829. APM #491. Cited in Nelson, 
Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  2. 
91        CPA to LCA,  Boston,  1 June 1829. APM #491. 
Cited in Nelson, Structural History ofthe Old 
House,  p.  2. 
92      CPA to  LCA,  Quincy, 30 October 1829. APM 
#491. Cited in Nelson, Structural History ofthe 
Old House,  p.  4. 
93      Nelson, Historic Research Report,  p.  4. 
94      CPA Diary,  Quincy,  13 April  1831, APM #60. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  52. 
95      JQA Diary,  Quincy, 23 July,  1830, APM #49. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  #49. 
96      ]QA Memoir,  14 August 1830. Cited in Harris, 
Furnishings Report, Vol.  9,  p.  828. 
97      Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9,  p.  843. 
98       Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9, p.  828. 
99      ]QA to CPA, 25  December 1830, APM #492. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  53. 
10° CPA Diary,  Boston, 29 December 1830, APM 
#60. Cited in Nelson, Structural History ofthe 
Old House,  p.  6. 
101     Harris, Furnishing Report, Vol 9,  p.  835. 
102    William H. Seward, An Autobiography .from 1801 
to  1843,  (New York,  1891): 204-207. From 
Butterfield,  The Adamses at Home,  et.  al., ed. p.  37. 
103    Nelson, Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  8. 
104    Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9, p.  826. 
105    CPA Diary, 24 April  1832, APM #61. Cited in 
Nelson, Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  9. 
106    CPA Diary,  10 July 1832, APM #61. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  61. 
107   JQA Diary,  17 June 1833, APM #42. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  60. 
108    From Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9,  p.  833. 
109    Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  34. 
110   JQA Miscellany,  1833, APM,  199. Cited in Skeen, 
Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  63. 
111     Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9,  p.  830. 
112    Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9, p.  830. 
113   John Quincy Adams, 24 August 1835, APM #43. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  62. 
114   JQA Diary, Quincy,  13 July 1835. APM #43. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  60. 
115    Cited in Harris, Furnishings Report,  Vol  9, p.  829. 
116    ibid. 
117   JQA Diary, 20 July 1837, APM #50. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  74. 
118   JQA Diary,  1 June 1839, APM #42. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  60. 
119   JQA Diary,  1 June 1839. Cited in Skeen, 
Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  63. 
12° Cited in Harris, Furnishings Report,  Vol.  9, p.  830. 
121    JQA Diary, Quincy,  17 May 1841, APM #44. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  60. 
122    Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol  9,  p.  833. 
123   JQA Diary, 23 June 1843, APM #46. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  48. 
124   JQA Diary, Quincy,  15 August 1843. APM, #47. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuild­
ings,  p.  61. 
125   JQA Diary,  19 October 1843. Cited in Nelson, 
Historic Research Report,  p.  64. 
126    ]QA Diary, 29 July 1844, APM #47. Cited in 
Skeen, Historic Research Report,  p.  33. 
73 
~ 
 - 82 - 
127    Harris, Furnishings Report,  Vol.  9,  p.  830. 
128    Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9, p.  833. 
129    ]QA Diary, 30 June 1845, APM #48. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  64. 
130   JQA Diary, 28 July 1845, APM #48. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  64. 
131    CFA Diary,  14 April  1846, APM #68. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  33. 
132    Nelson, Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  1. 
133    Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol 9, p.  834. 
134    CFA Diary,  5 April  1849. Cited in Peterson, 
Historic Structures Report, p.  28. 
135    CFA Diary, 22 March 1852, AIM, #72. Cited in 
Nelson, Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  6. 
136    CFA Diary, 9 July 1868, APM, #81. Cited in 
Nelson, Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  9. 
137    Henry Adams cited in Butterfield, et al.,  The 
Adamses at Home,  p.  54. 
138    Stilgoe, Borderlands,   p.  99. 
139    Ibid., p.  67. 
140    Ibid., p.  52. 
141     Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9, p.  832. 
142    Butterfield, et al.  The Adamses at Home,  p.  55. 
143    CFA cited in Butterfield, et al.,  The Adamses at 
Home,  55. 
144    Harris, Furnishings Report,  Vol. I, p.  120. 
145    Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  49. 
146    CFA Diary, 22 August 1850, APM #71. Cited in 
Skeen,  Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  73. 
147    Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  49. 
148    CFA Diary, 24 June 1851, APM #72. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,   p.  73. 
149    Ibid. 
15° CFA Diary, 3 February 1852, APM #72. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,   p.  24. 
151    Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  69. 
152    CFA Financial Ledger, 3 July 1852, APM # 302. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  54. 
153   ABA to CFA,  8 August  1852, APM #541. Cited 
in Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings, 
p.  70. 
154    Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  34. 
155    Homes ofAmerican Statesmen,  (Hartford,  1855): 
322-323. Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative 
ofBuildings Shown on Historic Base Map,  65. 
156    Ibid. 
157    Office of the Assessor,  City of Quincy. 
158    The Cincinnati Commercial, 26 November 1868. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  53. 
159    Peterson, Historic Structures Report,  p.  61. 
16° CFA Diary, 6 April  1869, APM #82. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  11. 
161     CFA Diary, 6 September 1869. APM # 82. Cited 
in Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings, 
p.  71. 
162    CFA Diary, 23 September 1869, APM #82. Cited 
in Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings, 
p.  19. 
163    CFA Diary,  13 October 1869, APM #82. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  19. 
164    CFA Diary,  14 October 1869. APM #82. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p. 43. 
165    Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9.  p.  839. 
166    Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  43. 
167    Ibid. 
168    Ibid., p.  66. 
167    Ibid., p.  74. 
170    Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9, p.  839. 
171     CFA Diary, 28 April 1873, APM # 85. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  36. 
74 
~ 
 - 83 - 
172    CFA Diary,  10 August 1873. APM #63. Cited in 
Skeen,  Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,   p.  29. 
173    CFA Diary, 4 August  1873, APM #85. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  36. 
174    CFA Diary, 22 June 1873. Cited in Skeen, 
Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  41. 
175    Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  41. 
176    CFA Diary, 6 November 1873, APM #85. Cited 
in Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p. 
22. 
177    Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  40. 
178    CFA Diary,  1 January 1874, APM # 85. Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  36. 
179    Ibid., p.  34. 
180    Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  70. 
181    CFA Diary,  13 April  1874, APM #85.  Cited in 
Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  35. 
182    "Charles Frances Adams, A Great American 
Statesman," New York  Times,  4 August 1879. 
Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  66. 
183    Cited in Skeen, Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings,  p.  70. 
184    Brooks Adams (BA)  to Henry Adams (HA), April 
15,  1906, MS Houghton Library,  Harvard 
University, Cambridge, MA.  Cited in Nelson, 
Structural History ofthe Old House,  p.  1. 
185    National Register Nomination, Quincy Multiple 
Resource Area,  1989, Sections 7 and 8. 
186    Wilhelmina Harris, "The Brooks Adams I Knew." 
Cited in  The Yale  Review, Autumn,  1969. 
187   Alice G.B Lockwood, ed.  Garden Club of America 
and Scribner and Sons,  1931. Cited in Skeen, 
Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  54. 
188    Norfolk County Registry of Deeds, Libro 948, 
Folio 358. Cited in Peterson, Historic Structures 
Report,  p.  72. 
189    Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings, p.  55. 
190    BA to HA,  15 April  1906, Houghton Library, 
Harvard University MS. Cited in Skeen, 
Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  55. 
191     Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  42. 
192    Office of the Assessor,  City of Quincy. 
193    Ibid. 
194    Harris, Furnishings Report, Vol.  9,  p.  849. 
195    Quincy Patriot Ledger,   4/3/27: 1 
196    Office of the Assessor,  City of Quincy. 
197    Paul C.  Nagel, Descent from  Glory.  (New York: 
Oxford University Press,  1983): 380. 
198    To Adams Memorial Society from Rackemann, 
Sawyer and Brewster,  Boston,  5 March 1946. 
Cited in Peterson, Historic Structures Report,  p.  36. 
199    Quit claim, 26 July 1930, Norfolk County 
Registry of Deeds, Libro  1900, Folio 330 refers to 
Plan dated June 24,  1930, Edwin H. Rogers, 
Director of Park Engineering.  Recorded at 
Norfolk County Registry of Deeds, File 751-
1930, Plan Book 112.  (Cited in Peterson, Historic 
Structures Report,  p.  72.) 
200    Helen Nelson, "Report on the Property on the 
South Side ofAdams Street." 21  February 1962. 
201     Office of the Assessor,  City of Quincy. 
202    Peterson, Historic Structures Report,  p.  36. 
203    Skeen, Documentary Narrative ofBuildings,  p.  42. 
204    Peterson, Historic Structures Report,  p.  72. 
205    Quincy Patriot Ledger, 9Il /71: 1. 
75 
~ 
 - 84 - 
Bibliography 
BOOKS 
Edwards, William Churchill. Historic Quincy,  Massa­
chusetts.  Quincy, MA:  Privately printed,  1945. 
Leighton, Ann. American Gardens ofthe Nineteenth 
Century. Amherst, University of Massachusetts Press, 
1987. 
Lockwood, Alice G.B., ed.Gardens ofColony and State. 
New York:  Published by  the Garden Club ofAmerica 
and Scribner and Sons,  1931. 
Nagel,  Paul.  Descent from  Glory.   New York:  Oxford 
University Press,  1983. 
Pattee, William S.  History ofOld Braintree and Quincy. 
Quincy: Green and Prescott,  1878. 
Punch, Walter T., ed.  Keeping Eden: A  History of 
Gardening in America. Boston: Little Brown and 
Company,  1992. 
Stilgoe, John. Borderlands:  Origins ofthe American 
Suburb,  1820-1939.   New Haven, Yale  University 
Press,  1988. 
Stilgoe, John.  Common Landscapes ofAmerica,  1850-
1845.  New Haven: Yale University Press,  1982. 
Wilson, Daniel Munro.  Where American Independence 
Began.   Boston:  Houghton Mifflin and Co.  1902. 
Wilson, Daniel Munro.  Three Hundred Years  of 
Quincy:  1625-1925.   Boston: Wright and Potter. 
1926. 
REPORTS 
"Streetlights on Furnace Brook Parkway." 
Quincy Patriot Ledger, 4/3/27: 1. 
Butterfield, L.H., Freidlaender and Wendell Garrett, 
ed.  The Adamses at Home: Accounts by Visitors to  the 
Old House in Quincy,  1788-1886. Printed by the 
Colonial Society of Massachusetts,  1970. 
Coffin, Margaret, with Kristin Claeys and Cicy Po. 
"Historic Plant Inventory for Adams National Historic 
Site." National Park Service,  Olmsted Center for 
Landscape Preservation in Partnership with the Arnold 
Arboretum,  1994. 
Harris, Wilhelmina. Furnishings Report ofthe Old 
House,  Adams National Historic Site,  Quincy Massachu­
setts.  Volumes  1-9.  1966-1968. 
Harris, Wilhelmina. "The Brooks Adams I Knew." 
lale Review, Autumn, 1969. 
Hohmann, Heidi and Katharine Lacy.  "Cultural 
Landscape Report for  the Beale House, Adams 
National Historic Site." Olmsted Center for Land­
scape Preservation, North Atlantic Region,  National 
Park Service. March,  1995. 
Peak, Marianne. "Statement for Management, Adams 
National Historic Site." January,  1993. 
National Park Service,  Denver Service Center. Draft 
General Management Plan for the Adams National 
Historic Site.  1995. 
National Register of Historic Places Registration Form 
for  the Quincy Multiple Resource Area. July 27, 
1989. 
National Register of Historic Places Registration Form 
for  the Adams National Historic Site. April 4,  1980. 
Nelson, Helen L.  Historical Research Report:  The 
Structural History ofthe  "Old House, "Adams National 
Historic Site,  Quincy,  Massachusetts.  August 30,  1963. 
Nelson, Helen L.  "Report on the Property on the 
West Boundary of the Adams National Historic Site; 
Report on the Property on the West Boundary of the 
Adams National Historic Site." February 1962. 
Peterson, Charles E.  Historic Structures Report,  Part I: 
The Adams Mansion, Adams National Historic Site. 
1963. 
Phillips, Maureen K.  "Historic Structure Report, 
Adams Stone Library."  Cultural Resource Center, 
Building Conservation Branch, North Atlantic 
Region, National Park Service, United States Depart­
ment of the Interior, Boston, MA.  1990. 
Quincy, City of,  Files of the Office of the Assessor. 
Skeen, Helen Nelson. Documentary Narrative of 
Buildings Shown on  Historic Base Map ofthe Adams 
National Historic Site.  1965. 
76 
~ 
 - 85 - 
