THE  LIBRARY 


The  University 
of 

North  Carolina 


* 


THE  LIBRARY  OF  THE 
UNIVERSITY  OF 
NORTH  CAROLINA 
AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


ENDOWED  BY  THE 
DIALECTIC  AND  PHILANTHROPIC 
SOCIETIES 


DA25 
.  B5 
1858 

no. 99,  v.1 


J 


This  hook  must  not  he  taken 
from  the  Library  building 

EXCEPT  WITH  THE  SPECIAL  PERMIS¬ 
SION  OF  THE  LIBRARIAN 


;  -  •  ^  /  -T  $  s-  fa 

.'>/>  *  /<#2  _ 

/5  *lA4rM&L*u^  ^  ^ 

d  ^  ‘  /\  ^X  /  <S"z^  ^  -e^2. 


TRANSCRIPT  OP  THE  BISHOP  OF  CHICHESTER’S  CHARTER.  (From  the  Black  Book  of  the 

Exchequer,  fo.  13b.) 


ft 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2019  with  funding  from 
University  of  North  Carolina  at  Chapel  Hill 


https://archive.org/details/redbookofexchequ9911grea 


©  ■r'O 

„  I  j 

B-l 


J*  i?  „ 


9  8  v  §  -s 

os 

JT  si  44^ 


-  V*<  2 


SU,^,^. 


34£*i  JSE  ? 

SsS^f 


'!  ^If  .  c_^- 

'  **•  \  v  ~4 _ £ 


<o 


v  E- 

J  >»  •* 


4 


»? 

fe  ^ 

4  f*1  ik 

:'46 


rPM 


3 


i *J 

&T1/. 

hr'lS' 


cr 


„_=  fl 

4e  1 

r'tp 

Vw4Af 


-5  1^/1  ^4- 


^  j  fe 


ORIGINAL  CHARTER  OF  HILARY,  BISHOP  OF  CHICHESTER,  [1166], 


THE 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE 


PART  i. 


.6,5 
(  £5# 

-wo 

v  .V 


EDITED  BY 


HUBERT  HALL,  E.S.A., 

OF  THE  PUBLIC  RECORD  OFFICE. 


ir~I.O  -‘jX 


PUBLISHED  BY  THE  AUTHORITY  OF  THE  LORDS  COMMISSIONERS  OF  HER  MAJESTY’S 
TREASURY,  UNDER  TUB  DIRECTION  OF  THE  MASTER  OF  THE  ROLLS. 


LONDON : 

PRINTED  FOR  HER  MAJESTY’S  STATIONERY  OFFICE, 

BY  EYRE  ANU  SPOTTISWOODE. 

PRINTERS  TO  THE  QUEEN’S  MOST  EXCELLENT  MAJESTY". 


And  to  be  purchased,  either  directly  or  through  any 


EYRE  and  SPOTTISWOODE,  East  Harding  Street,^,e«$*Street,  E.Q. ;  6v, 
JOHN  MENZIES  &  CO.,  12,  Hanover  Streert'  E&tnburgh;  anf 
90,  West  Nile  Street,  Glasgow^; 

HODGES,  FIGGIS,  &  CO.,  Limited,  104,  Grafjj&m^treeTj, 

1896. 


7o 


CONTENTS. 


Pago 

Preface  ---------  i 

Table  of  the  Contents  of  the  Red  Book  -  Ixv 

The  Scutages  --------  1 

The  Barons’  Charters  -------  j  $  fa 


63377.  Wt.  6366. 


a  2 


<  P(  ^4w4  ^  /*  4^  G^UL*  A^'J  ft**£ 

£jZK/  '^4<  AP  ^  45^  £\c?^^  £-~*yf 

/v14^-  ^cca^/5^ a*^5*  5U  / 

n  f  2r 


P  R  F  F  A  0 


I. 

The  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer  belongs  to  the  class  of  Place  of 
Entry  Books  usually  termed  Precedent  Books,  but  more  <  d 
correctly  Registers,  or  Books  of  Remembrance.  The  amougst 
practice  of  compiling  such  works  of  reference  seems  to  Registers, 
have  obtained  from  a  very  early  date.  In  the  first 
place,  we  find  a  number  of  official  compilations  of  the 
very  highest  value  emanating  from  the  clerical  staff  of 
the  Curia  and  Exchequer,  and  designed  ostensibly  in  the 
interests  of  the  Crown.  At  one  time  or  another,  almost 
every  department  of  the  State  has  had  its  Precedent 
Book,  but  none  can  boast  of  such  a  collection  of  historic 
Registers  as  that  which  is  still  preserved  amongst  the 
Records  of  the  Court  of  Exchequer,  including  Domes¬ 
day  Book,  and  a  number  of  kindred  Feodaries  which 
are  of  secondary  importance  only  to  the  great  Anglo- 
Norman  Register  itself — the  Red  Book,  the  Black  Book, 

O 

Testa  de  Nevill,  the  Book  of  Aids,  Kirby’s  Quest,  the 
Libri  Munimentorum,  and  many  more  whose  titles  are 
household  words  to  the  student  of  our  national  Records. 

The  Chancery,  which  made  a  speciality  of  stately 
rolls,  as  fairly  written  and  nearly  as  accessible  through 
the  consecutive  arrangement  of  their  membranes  as 
any  entry  book,  had  seldom  occasion  to  resort  to  a 
form  of  Registration  which  was  indispensable  for  the 
financial  system  of  the  Exchequer.  The  Common  Law 
Courts,  too,  were  on  the  whole  content  with  the 
abbreviated  and  ill -arranged,  yet  wonderfully  terse  and 
graphic  Records,  which,  like  all  “  headed  ”  rolls,  were 
not  calculated  to  facilitate  a  speedy  reference  to 

b 


63377. 


11 


PREFACE. 


Later 

official 

Registers 


precedents.  Registers-  there  were  in  plenty,  containing 
law  collections  with  Note  Books  and  Reports,  hut  these 
were  rather  the  result  of  private  industry  than  of  official 
zeal,  and  the  statutes  and  public  charters  of  the  realm 
have  chiefly  been  preserved  to  us  in  the  Chronicles 
and  Memorials  of  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries. 

Passing  from  the  Middle  Ages  to  the  Law  Courts 
and  departments  of  the  modern  State,  we  find  the 
fashion  for  compiling  Entry  Books  fitfully  observed  down 
to  the  close  of  the  seventeenth  century.  The  ancient 
Courts  of  Law  were  distinguished  by  the  increasing 
copiousness  of  contemporary  Records,  and  the  collection 
of  modern  precedents  was  continued  by  many  hands. 
Statesmen  and  officials  busied  themselves  with  the  task 
of  transcribing  mediaeval  Remembrance  Books  and 
treatises,  and  the  vast  number  of  such  transcripts  (the 
Red  Book  itself  being,  perhaps,  the  most  favoured  of  any 
exemplar)  scattered  throughout  the  chief  manuscript  col¬ 
lections  of  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries  bears 
witness  to  their  industry  and  discernment.  Meanwhile 
a  new  Court,  that  of  the  Augmentations,  undertook,  and 
actually  carried  out  within  a  few  years  of  the  middle  of 
the  sixteenth  century,  the  compilation  of  the  most  com¬ 
plete  and  serviceable  series  of  Precedent  Books  ever 
attempted  before  or  since.  The  clerks  of  the  Royal 
Household  were  engaged  from  the  reign  of  Edward  IV. 
upon  another  great  series,  which  is  even  yet  resorted 
to  by  the  Lord  Chamberlain’s  Department  as  an  official 
guide  to  all  ceremonies  of  State.  The  Admiralty  still 
possessed  its  famous  Black  Book,  while  from  the 
Restoration  the  War  Office  had  founded  a  series  of 
Entry  Books  which  has  proved  invaluable  to  the  student 
of  military  antiquities.  Lastly,  a  number  of  official 
Precedent  Books  of  a  very  miscellaneous  character  had 
been  compiled  by  the  industrious  zeal  of  successive 
Secretaries  of  State,  from  Lord  Burgliley  to  Sir  Joseph 
Williamson. 


PREFACE. 


Ill 


The  example  of  the  Crown  in  the  making;  of  official  Analogy 
Precedent  Books  was  closely  followed  by  those  classes  siasticaT 
of  the  subjects  who  had  special  need  of  such  appliances  Registers, 
for  the  preservation  of  their  individual  or  corporate 
interests.  Of  these  the  Church  was  naturally  the 
earliest,  the  most  assiduous,  and  the  most  skilful  com¬ 
piler  of  the  choicest  evidences  of  her  possessions.  Every 
monastery  possessed  its  Register  or  Cartulary,  the 
character  and  historical  value  of  which  are  too  well 
known  to  need  any  description,  while  the  Registers  of 
several  Cathedral  Churches  and  Colleges  which  have 
survived  are  at  least  equally  important.  At  a  neces-  municipal 

•ii  .  .  Registers, 

sarilv  later  date  another  splendid  series  or  Registers 

begins,  such  as  still  exist  in  the  proud  possession  of 

many  a  lay  corporation,  thanks  to  the  half-forgotten 

offices  of  some  civic  Swereford  of  the  fourteenth  century. 

Besides  these  Entry  Books  of  clerical  and  lay  cor-  and 
porations,  a  few  great  bishops  and  nobles  had  instituted  Registers, 
a  very  perfect  system  of  registration  of  their  charters 
and  judicial  acts,  as  familiar  examples  of  which  may  be 
cited  Bishop  Kellawe’s  Register  and  the  Cowcher  Books 
of  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster. 

It  is  evident,  therefore,  that  the  Red  Book  of  the  Motives 
Exchequer  was  only  one  of  a  great  class  of  Registers,  Compihi- 
designed  with  the  common  intention  of  preserving  tion- 
certain  important  documents,  as  well  as  of  displaying 
them  to  the  best  advantage  for  the  purpose  of  con- 
\  enient  reference.  It  is  merely  due  to  the  feudal 
survivorship  of  the  Crown  that  so  many  of  the  best- 
known  examples  of  this  class  were  swept  from  their 
shelves  in  the  monastic  aumbry  or  the  baronial  ward¬ 
robe,  to  keep  company  with  Feodaries  and  Remembrance 
Books  in  the  iron-bound  chests  of  the  King’s  Treasury  at 
Westminster. 

We  may  not  only  assume  a  common  motive  for  the  Typical 
compilation  of  these  Registers,  but  we  may  go  further  tolltulN- 
and  specify  the  common  nature  of  their  contents,  which 

b  2 


1Y 


PREFACE. 


Red, Black, 
and  White 
Books  not 
to  be 
classified 
according 
to  their 
colour. 


will  be  found  in  typical  cases  to  comprise  some  or 
all  of  the  following  subjects — Charters,  Statutes  of 
the  Realm,  Placita,  or  other  public  acts,  with  private 
Deeds  and  Ordinances,  Correspondence,  Chronicles  or 
Annals,  religious,  physical  or  legal  Treatises,  Topo¬ 
graphies,  Genealogies  or  Successions,  Surveys  and 
Accounts,  Precedents  and  Facetice. 

The  Red  Book  itself  contains  some  examples  of  all 
the  above  subjects,  and  we  also  find  that  a  considerable 
portion  of  its  contents  recurs  in  independent  Registers 
as  a  proof  of  a  common  origin  and  purpose. 

It  is  necessary  thus  at  the  outset  to  indicate  the 
probable  relationship  of  the  Red  book  of  the  Exchequer 
with  a  large  and  widely -distributed  class  of  muniments 
in  order  to  realize  adequately  its  generic  position 
amongst  Records,  which,  although  generally  recognised, 
has  not  hitherto  been  definitely  stated.1  Fortunately, 
the  nature  and  contents  of  many  of  the  kindred 
Registers  in  official  or  private  custody  are  so  well 
known  that  the  analysis  of  the  Exchequer  MS.  given 
in  the  Table  of  Contents  will  enable  the  reader  to  verify 
at  leisure  the  several  points  of  resemblance  which  have 
been  alluded  to  here. 

Another  means  of  classification,  which  is  perhaps 
more  popular,  though  in  reality  merely  superficial,  is 
to  be  found  in  the  resemblance  of  the  titles  applied  to 
this  and  other  Registers.  The  Red  Book  of  the  Irish 
Exchequer  is  still  preserved  in  the  Dublin  Record 
Office.'2  There  was  formerly  a  Red  Book  amongst  the 
muniments  of  the  Corporation  of  London,3  and  one  of 
the  ancient  Precedent  Books  of  the  church  of  Wells4 


1  Since  these  lines  were  written,  a  ■  2  Report  on  Public  Records,  Ire- 

clear  definition  of  this  class  of  Re-  I  land,  p.  159. 
cords  has  been  given  by  Mr.  Scar-  j  3  Monument.  Gildhalt,  I.  xvii. 
gill-Bird  in  his  valuable  Hand-book  .  4  Hist.  MSS.  Comn.  Report,  1885, 

to  the  Public  Records.  1  Appx.  3. 


PREFACE. 


Y 


bore  the  same  title,  and  the  Red  Book  of  Hergest,  con¬ 
taining  the  text  of  the  Bruts  is  well  known.  There  was 
even  in  the  fourteenth  century  at  least  one  other  Red 
Book  in  official  custody,  for  we  find  in  a  contemporary 
Record  the  note  that  a  recent  eclipse  of  the  sun  has 
been  duly  entered  in  “  Rubeo  Libro  vocato  Chronicles.”  1 
Before  the  close  of  the  sixteenth  century  provincial  Red 
Books  abounded,  as,  for  instance,  the  Red  Book  of  Jesus 
College,  Oxford,2  the  Red  Book  of  Bath,3  the  Red  Book 
of  Derby,4  and  the  lost  Red  Books  of  Gloucester 5  and 
Nottingham.6  It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  observe  that 
the  colour  of  the  leather  binding  of  such  Registers  is  no 
indication  whatever  as  to  the  nature  of  their  contents, 
precisely  similar  compilations  being  indifferently  known 
as  Red  Books,  Black  Books,  or  White  Books.7  Thus, 
besides  the  well-known  Black  Books  of  the  Exchequer 
at  Westminster  and  Dublin,  two  other  volumes  bearing 
this  title  were  included  anions  the  lost  Registers  of 
the  Guildhall,  whose  White  Book  still  survives  as  a 
thoroughly  typical  Precedent  Book.  Similarly,  there 
was  a  Black  Book  of  St  David’s,  a  Black  Book  of  the 
Church  of  Holy  Trinity  at  Dublin,8  the  Black  Book  of 
Limerick,9  the  Black  Book  of  Lincoln,10  and  the  Black 
and  White  Books  of  Wells,11  the  White  Books  of  York 
and  Southwell,12  and  the  Table  Books  of  the  Cinque 
Ports:13 


1  Inq.,  34  Edw.  III.,  No.  99. 

2  Arclueologia,  xiv.  218. 

3  Collectari.  Top.  et  Gen.,  I.  403. 

4  Leofric  Missal  (Clar.  Press). 

5  Mist.  MSS.  Comn.,  xii.,  Appx. 
9. 

6  Nottingham  Corporation  Re¬ 
cords,  iv.  171,  et  seq. 

7  An  exception  may  perhaps  be 

made  in  the  case  of  the  Black  Book 

of  the  Proctors  in  Oxford. 


8  Report  on  Public  Records,  Ire¬ 
land,  p.  307. 

9  Facsimil.  of  Irish  MSS.,  Ill.xix. 

10  Hist.  MSS.  Comn.,  xii.  Report, 
Appx.  ix. 

11  Hist.  MSS.  Comn.  1885,  Part  3. 

12  Hist.  MSS.  Comn.,  xii.,  Appx. 
9. 

13  Hist.  MSS.  Comn.,  iv.  428  and 
v.  488,  568. 


VI 


PREFACE. 


The  Red 
Book  as  a 
Food ary. 


The  above  examples  have  been  chosen  to  illus¬ 
trate  the  widely  different  nature  of  certain  Regis¬ 
ters  bearing  a  similar  title,  but  it  may  be  further 
pointed  out  that  the  very  titles  of  several  of  these 
volumes  have  become  inappropriate  with  the  lapse  of 
centuries.  The  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer  is  now 
rather  black  than  red,  and  the  contemporary  Black 
Book  of  the  same  Court  has,  like  the  White  Book  of 
St.  Edmunds,1  acquired  a  roseate  covering,  while  the 
well  known  verses  on  a  fly-leaf  of  the  Guildhall  White 
Book  point  to  a  similar  transformation  as  early  as  the 
reign  of  Elizabeth.2  Finally,  the  two  famous  volumes 
known  as  the  Liber  A.  and  Liber  B.,  though  once  red  in 
colour,  are  now  of  precisely  the  same  hue  as  the  Red 
Book  of  the  Exchequer  itself.3 

The  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer  in  relation  to  this 
class  is  to  be  regarded  as  representing  the  interests  of 
the  royal  Exchequer.  As  a  Feodary,  this  Register 
accurately  determined  the  liabilities  of  the  tenants  in 
respect  of  military  service  or  Scutage,  or  indeed  any 
further  assessment  wherein  the  knight’s  fee  served  as 
the  unit  of  taxation.  From  a  narrower  view,  the 
officials  of  the  Exchequer  were  personally  concerned 
in  the  smooth  ;ind  expeditious  collection  of  these  feudal 
assessments.  Moreover,  it  was  always  an  object  with 
them  to  show  that  whoever  else  might  be  liable,  they 
at  least  were  not  by  virtue  of  their  office,  for  which 
purpose  it  was  desirable  that  the  exemptions  noted  in 


1  MS.  Hark,  1005. 

2  It  is  a  rather  curious  coinci¬ 
dence  that  the  famous  Register  E. 
of  the  French  Chancery,  still  pre¬ 
served,  which  was  compiled  in  the 

second  quarter  of  the  xiiith  century 
by  an  official  churchman  of  distinc¬ 
tion,  was  also  known  as  a  Red 
Book,  or  rather  as  the  “  Registrum 


Rubeum.”  This  also  contained  lists 
of  knights’  fees. 

3  Memorandum  that  on  the  19th 
Jan.,  14  Henry  VI.,  thq/Treasurer, 
&c.,  delivered  to  the  keeper  of  the 
Privy  Seal,  “  duos  libros  corio  rubio 
“  coopertos,  vocatos  Libros  de  Re- 
“  membranee  ”  {Liber  Memoran¬ 
dorum,  fo.  79  d). 


PREFACE.  vii 

the  Ancient  Charters  and  Pipe  Rolls  should  he  per¬ 
petuated  in  a  handy-book  of  reference.1 

As  a  Cartulary  the  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer  was 
a  most  serviceable  Register  of  Surrenders  to  the  Crown, 
Exchanges,  or  other  Quit-claims,  the  practical  use  of 
which  has  been  positively  demonstrated  by  the  labour 
incurred  during  the  preparation  of  the  Table  of  Contents 
to  the  present  Edition,  in  the  identification  of  the 
originals  or  inrol merits  of  the  several  charters  tran¬ 
scribed  here.  Again,  from  an  official  point  of  view,  the 
terms  of  many  of  these  instruments  involved  a  very 
nice  adjustment  of  certain  annual  charges  in  the 
Sheriffs’  Accounts — matters  which  might  easily  be  lost 
sight  of  unless  the  unmatured  instruments  were  “posted,” 
so  to  speak,  in  the  Office  of  the  Receipt. 

As  an  Entry  Book  of  State  Papers,  Statutes,  and 
other  Public  Acts,  this  book  has  long  been  famous  for 
its  choice  collection  of  historical  documents,  aud  for  its 
authoritative  text.  Most  of  these  will  be  found,  as 
might  have  been  expected,  to  deal  with  questions  of 
fiscal  interest :  Papal  Bulls  on  the  subject  of  first- 
fruits  and  tenths ;  correspondence  of  the  Emperor 
Frederick  II.,  associated  in  the  minds  of  Exchequer 
officials  with  a  recent  Marriage  Aid ;  correspondence 
with  the  French  King,  involving  a  question  of  homage 
and  of  the  finances  of  Gascony ;  conventions  with 
Flanders,  based  upon  supplies  of  men  and  money, 
and  negociations  with  Scotland  connected  with  an 
historical  obligation.  The  Statutes  and  Ordinances 
entered  here  are  chiefly  such  as  relate  to  the  govern¬ 
ment  or  reformation  of  the  Exchequer,  while  even  if 
the  more  ancient  and  interesting  of  the  remaining 
Public  Acts  do  not  directly  concern  the  business  of 
this  Court,  they  were  such — the  laws  of  Henry  I.  and 


as  a  Car¬ 
tulary, 


as  an  En¬ 
try  Book, 


1  Dialogus  de  Scaccario,  i,  11. 


vm 


PREFACE. 


and  as  a 
Precedent 
Book  of 
the  Ex¬ 
chequer. 


Curiosities 
of  the  MS. 


Its  autho¬ 
rity  as  a 
book  of 
Evidence. 


the  Anglo-Norman  Charters  of  liberties,  for  example — as 
invited  the  studious  attention  of  every  official  of  the 
Curia,  which  owed  its  own  origin  to  the  resultant 
definition  of  the  constitution. 

As  an  Entry  Book  of  Departmental  Precedents  and. 
Memoranda,  the  Bed  Book  of  the  Exchequer  deserves 
the  highest  praise.  The  Officers  of  State  were  sworn 
upon  the  oaths  entered  in  its  pnges  down  to  our  own 
times.  Forms  of  writs,  directions  for  renewing  tallies, 
every  kind  of  information  that  might  prove  useful  to 
future  generations  of  chamberlains  and  clerks,  to  the 
just  measure  of  a  hundredweight  of  office  wax,  was 
scattered  over  its  fly-leaves,  blank  folios,  and  spacious 
margins,  in  addition  to  the  classical  treatise  upon  the 
system  of  the  Court,  and  the  remarkable  writs  of 
Protection  that  were  intended  to  illustrate  its  doctrine 
of  Exchequer  privilege. 

It  was  only  fair  that,  with  this  strict  attention  to 
official  business,  a  little  worldly  gossip  should  have 
crept  in  to  lighten  the  perusal  of  interminable  columns 
of  knights’  fees  and  precedents.  This  irrelevant  matter 
is,  however,  very  slight :  A  description  of  Babylon  and 
a  few  other  excerpts  from  some  monastic  register;  an 
account  of  the  coronation  of  Eleanor  of  Provence,  in 
which,  moreover,  the  professional  subject  of  Serjeanties 
was  introduced ;  a  few  royal  genealogies  and  a  calendar 
of  regnal  years,  useful  for  official  ready-reckoning ;  and 
a  solitary  distich  with  a  moral  tendency,  while  even 
the  dignified  Black  Book  of  the  same  Court  could 
count  a  hundred  poetic  essays,  besides  the  relief  of 
various  pen-and-ink  sketches. 

It  will  be  evident  from  the  above  outline  of  its 
contents  that  the  Bed  Book  of  the  Exchequer  was 
undoubtedly  a  compilation  of  the  greatest  value  and 
utility  to  the  officers  of  the  Court,  and  it  may  also 
be  gathered  from  several  contemporary  notices  that 
its  authority  was  at  least  highly  respected  by  the 


PREFACE. 


IX 


Courts  of  Law  and  frequently  invoked  by  other  depart¬ 
ments  of  the  State. 

The  notices  in  question,  which  might  easily  be 
multiplied,  are  chiefly  of  inrolments  ordered  or  found 
to  be  made  in  this  book,  or  of  appeals  to  its  authority 
in  c.tses  before  the  Courts.1 

It  is  evident  from  the  recurrence  of  the  entry, 

“  scrutato  Libro  Rubeo,”  that  this  Register  had  come 
to  be  acknowledged  as  an  authority  on  questions  con¬ 
cerning  the  tenure  of  lands,  in  which  it  might  even 
be  exemplified  in  the  same  way  as  Domesday  Book 
itself.  Herein,  however,  an  important  reservation  was 
made  by  the  King’s  Justices,  to  the  effect  that  such 
Registers  might  be  received  “  pro  evidentiis  sed  non 
“  pro  recordo  ” 3  and  that,  as  to  the  Red  Book  itself, 

“  il  n’est  mie  de  Record  cy.”  3 

From  these  and  certain  later  notices  it  would  seem  The  Red 
that  the  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer  was  preserved  in  official** 
the  custody  of  the  Treasurer  and  Barons,  or  more  im-  Custody, 
mediately  in  that  of  the  King’s-  Remembrancer,  as  a 
precedent  book  of  the  Court  from  a  very  early  period, 
perhaps  from  the  year  1246.4  In  the  reign  of  Henry  VI. 
this  Register,  with  other  important  Exchequer  Records, 
was  ordered  by  the  Crown  to  be  transcribed.5  This 
transcript  does  not  appear  to  have  survived,  but  there  is 
evidence  of  considerable  attention  having  been  bestowed 


1  Aucient  Deeds,  A.  350,  355, 
1875. 

Pat.,  12  Edw.  III.,  Pt.  I.,  m.  17. 
Plae.  Pari.,  28  Edw.  III.,  Appx., 
p.  G66. 

Inq.  P.  M.,  30  Edw.  III.,  No.  46. 
Tower  Misc.  Rolls,  No.  268. 
Rot.  Pail.,  II.  263  b. 

Year  l  ook,  43  Edw.  III.,  p.  21. 
Liber  Custumaruvi,  II.  2,  471. 
L.  T.  R.  Memor.  Hil.,  9  Ric. 

II.,  rot.  la. 

Pat.,  8  Ric.  II.,  Pt,  I. 


Mich.  Com.,  2  Edw.  II.,  rot.  42a. 

Pasch.  Com.,  34  Edw.  I.,  rot. 

33a. 

2  See  the  caution  posted  at  the 
beginning  of  the  MSS.  of  the  Testa 
de  Nevill. 

3  Year  Book,  47  Edw.  Ill,, p.  21. 

4  i.e.  the  year  ot  Swereford’s 
death.  The  practice  of  bequeathing 
such  compilations  for  departmental 
use  was  not  uncommon. 

5  MS.  Cotton,  Vesp.  C.  1 4,  fo.  508. 


X 


PREFACE. 


Integrity 
of  the 
existing 
Red  Book. 


Case  of  an 
Exchequer 
Record  in¬ 
terpolated. 


upon  the  original  in  the  course  of  the  next  century- 
in  the  shape  of  the  addition  of  most  of  the  forms 
of  oaths  and  the  Tables  of  Contents,  while,  as  pre¬ 
viously  mentioned,  it  was  during  this  same  period 
that  numerous  transcripts  were  made  of  the  better 
known  portion  of  its  contents. 

From  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century  down  to 
the  date  of  its  transfer 1  into  the  custody  of  the  Master 
of  the  Rolls,  references  to  the  Red  Book  of  the 
Exchequer  abound  in  the  works  of  antiquaries  and 
£enealo«ists.2  We  learn  further  that  the  Book  was 
still  in  the  custody  of  the  King’s  Remembrancer, 
having  been  always  preserved  in  an  iron  chest  within 
that  office.3 


II. 

The  subject  of  the  official  custody  of  the  MS.  raises 
a  question  of  the  gravest  importance  in  connection 
with  its  integrity,  in  view  of  certain  early  references 
to  transcripts  of  documents  which  are  no  longer,  in  their 
original  form,  at  least,  included  amongst  its  contents. 
A  few  years  ago,  Mr.  L.  Owen  Pike,  the  learned  editor 
of  the  “Year  Books,”  drew  attention  to  a  remarkable 
instance  in  which  a  document,  which  is  stated  in 
two  contemporary  Records  to  have  been  enrolled  in 
the  Red  Book  in  the  11th  year  of  Edward  III.,  is  only 
represented  in  the  existing  volume  by  a  copy  entered 
out  of  place  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VI.,  and  for  other 
reasons  obviously  intended  to  replace  the  earlier  entry.4 

The  discovery  in  question  was  the  result  of  Mr. 
Pike’s  verification  of  a  reference  made  by  Sir  Edward 
Coke  to  certain  proceedings  in  the  case  of  a  Writ  of 


1  17  May  1870. 

2  e.g.,  Dugdale,  Madox,  Le  Neve, 
Hearne,  Hunter,  Eyton,  & c. 

3  Communicated  by  R.  Hankins,  | 


Esq.,  of  the  Queen’s  Remembran¬ 
cer’s  Office. 

4  Year  Book,  14  Edw.  III.  (Rolls), 
pp.  xx-xxv. 


PREFACE. 


XI 


Error  in  the  14th  year  of  Edward  III.,  entered  at 
fo.  322  d  of  the  Red  Book.  This  entry,  however,  proves 
to  be  a  fifteenth  century  copy  of  a  Record  enrolled 
in  the  Memoranda  of  the  11th  year  of  Edward  III., 
reference  to  which  again  exhibits  the  following  con¬ 
clusive  note  : — “  Et  memorandum  quod  breve  praescrip- 
“  tum  et  aliud  breve  de  quo  fit  mentio  superius,  sunt 
“  inter  Communia  de  hoc  anno  xj°  ;  et  csetera  contenta 
“  in  dicta  certificatione  annota[n]tur  modo  specialiori 
“  in  Rubeo  libro  de  Scaccario,  et  in  Recordis  et  processu- 
“  bus  habitis  coram  Baronibus  ad  placita  ibidem.”  1 
There  can  be  no  doubt  as  to  the  date  of  the  sub¬ 
stituted  entry  in  the  Red  Book,  since  apart  from  the 
character  of  the  hand  and  position  at  the  end  of  the 
volume,  the  expression,  “  Edwardi  tertii  nuper  regis 
“  Anglim  ”  is  decisive,  and  there  existed  moreover  a 
strong  motive  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VI.  for  restoring 
the  missing  entry.  It  must  also  he  regarded  as  a 
fatal  objection  to  a  theory  which  has  been  strongly 
advanced  in  defence  of  the  integrity  of  the  MS.2  that 
the  expression  “  annotatur  ”  is  one  of  those  most  fre¬ 
quently  used  to  denote  an  official  inrolment,  and  that 
it  actually  occurs  in  the  cross-reference  from  the  later 
Red  Book  entry  to  the  Memoranda.3  Therefore  the 
phrase  was  not  loosely  used,  as  has  been  suggested, 
by  way  of  reference  to  the  Dialogus,  or  the  writs  of 
Brotection  entered  in  an  earlier  part  of  the  Red  Book. 
Besides  this,  the  second  writ  referred  to  can  actually 
be  identified  in  another  part  of  the  Memoranda  Roll, 
and  therefore  is  not  the  “  caetera  contenta,”  as  has 
also  been  suggested.  Clearly  the  meaning  is  that  the 
proceedings  in  the  Exchequer,  as  forming  the  body  of 
the  Record,  were  entered  contemporaneously  with  an 


1  Q.  R.  and  L.  T.  R.  Memoranda, 
Hil.  Communia,  11  Edw.  III. 

2  Athenepum ,  10  Nov.  1888. 


3  “  Consimile  Recordum  annota- 
“  tur  in  Memorandis  hujus  Scac- 
“  carii,”  & c. 


Second 
case  of  the 
formulae 
of  mediae¬ 
val  oaths 
omitted. 


xii  PREFACE. 

official  preamble  in  the  Red  Book,  in  the  same  way 
as  the  “Ordinances  of  the  Exchequer,”1  and  several 
other  Statutes  and  Records,  “  more  especially  ”  for  the 
information  of  the  Treasurer  and  Barons. 

It  is  well  known  that  during  the  last  three  centuries 
of  the  preservation  of  the  MS.  in  the  custody  of  the 
Queen’s  Remembrancer,  frequent  reference  was  made 
to  a  certain  portion  of  its  contents  for  the  purpose  of 
administering  various  oaths  of  office  according  to  the 
prescribed  formulae.  The  greater  number  of  these 
oaths  being  entered  in  a  sixteenth  century  hand  on 
the  fly-leaves  of  the  Book,  this  view  of  its  official  use, 
although  perhaps  more  familiar  than  any  other,  has 
generally  been  regarded  as  a  matter  of  purely  modern 
interest.  It  is,  however,  an  interesting  fact  that  a 
certain  Red  Book  was  from  a  very  early  period  recog¬ 
nized  as  the  forrnular  for  the  oaths  of  allegiance  of 
the  magnates  of  England  ;  and  that  it  was  apparently 
preserved  in  this  connection,  amongst  the  most  sacred 
relics  of  the  King’s  private  Treasury.  But  this  is  not 
all  that  we  thus  unexpectedly  learn  concerning  an 
eventful  episode  in  the  life-history  of  this  belated  Red 
Book.  We  are  able  to  trace  its  progress  with  the  King 
from  Westminster  to  Scotland  during  the  last  ten  years 
of  the  reign  of  the  first  Edward,  carefully  packed  in 
one  of  the  Wardrobe  chests,  between  the  folds  of  the 
State  cloths  of  gold,  or  at  other  times  lying  wedged 
between  the  skull  of  one  of  the  Eleven  Martyr  Virgins 
of  Cologne  and  the  fingers  of  Edward  the  Confessor,  in 
the  very  'penetralia  of  the  Treasury  of  the  Chamber. 

It  was  in  a  Wardrobe  Account  2  of  the  31st  year  of 
Edward  I.  that  the  Editor  first  found  a  notice  of  an 
Exchequer  MS.  in  the  above  unusual  surroundings,  the 


1  Table  of  Contents,  Nos.  2.r>8-26 1 . 

These  are  entered  sub  ptde  sigilli, 
as  to  the  significance  of  which  see 


Cooper  on  the  Records,  s.  v.  “  Red 
Rook  of  the  Exchequer.” 

2  Q.  R.  Misc.  Wardrobe 


PREFACE. 


Xlll 


Account  in  question  being  an  inventory  of  the  Trea¬ 
sury  of  the  Wardrobe  taken  at  Westminster,  in  which 
the  contents  of  the  several  chests  are  described,  and 
amongst  others  those  of  a  “  small  leather  coffer  ”  filled 
with  cloths  of  gold  and  samite,  amongst  which  we  find 
“  Liber  Rubeus  qui  vocatur  textus  super  quem  Mag- 
“  nates  Anglim  solebant  jurare.” 1  The  clue  to  the 
further  discovery  that  this  portion,  at  least,  of  the 
Wardrobe  Treasury  was  not  stationary  at  Westminster 
was  found  in  the  mention  of  a  gold  cup  given  to 
Edward  by  his  second  Queen  as  a  New  Year’s  Gift 
on  the  first  of  January,  in  the  30th  year,  and  delivered 
into  the  Wardrobe  at  Linlithgow.  It  was  evident,  then, 
that  some  part  of  this  treasure  had  recently  travelled 
from  Scotland,  and  a  careful  examination  of  the 
remaining  Accounts  of  the  reign  revealed  the  following 

o  o  o 

remarkable  circumstances  : — 

A  very  minute  inventory  of  the  contents  of  the 
Wardrobe  at  Westminster  in  the  early  part  of  the 
24th  year  establishes  the  fact  that  no  Exchequer  MSS. 
were  at  that  time  preserved  there.2  We  find,  however, 
that  the  chest  in  which  this  Red  Book  of  Oaths  was 
preserved  in  the  31st  year,  had  been  despatched  from 
Berwick  to  London  on  the  17  th  September  of  the 
24th  year  in  company  with  the  Scotch  regalia  taken 
at  Edinburgh  and  a  chest,  “  in  quo  continetur  scripta 
“  magnatum  et  aliorum  Regni  Scotiae  de  fidelitatibus 
“  suis  et  homagiis  post  guerram  Scotiae  anno  xxivto.”3 
These  chests  seem  to  have  remained  at  Westminster 
between  the  24th  and  the  28th  years,  for  an  inventory, 
taken  there  in  November  of  the  27th  year,  mentions  the 


1  That  this  is  an  official  and  not 
merely  a  literary  title  is  shown  by 
the  description  given  in  these  same 
Accounts  to  the  stone  “  Super  quam 
reges  Scotiae  solebant  coronari.” 

1  Q.  R.  Mise.  Wardrobe 


1  Q.  R.  Misc.  Wardrobe  4§. 
These  were  doubtless  the  original 
engagements,  of  which  a  certain 
number  still  survive.  They  have 
been  printed  by  Sir  F.  Palgrave  in 
“  Scotch  Documents.” 


XIV 


PREFACE. 


“  Liber  Rubeus  super  quem  magnates  solent  jurare.” 1 
Another  inventory  taken  in  April  of  the  28th  year 
states  that  a  portion  of  the  contents  of  the  Wardrobe 
at  Westminster  had  been  “trussed”  for  a  journey  to 
Scotland.  The  MS.  is  again  mentioned  in  this  account,2 
and  it  seems  almost  certain  that  it  followed  the  Court 
to  Linlithgow,  whence  it  was  despatched  to  Westminster 
some  time  after  January  of  the  30th  year,  and  was 
deposited  once  more,  as  we  have  seen,  in  the  Wardrobe 
Treasury  with  other  regalia  and  relics. 

This  was  in  November  of  the  31st  year,  and  it  was 
at  some  date  during  the  next  six  months  that  the 
famous  robbery  of  the  Treasury  took  place,  that  is 
to  say,  of  the  Wardrobe  Treasury  situated  in  the 
vaults  of  the  Chapter  House.3  It  is  possible,  therefore, 
that  this  Red  Book  was  amongst  the  contents  of  the 
chests  rifled  by  the  robbers,  and  that  it  was  con¬ 
temptuously  tossed  aside  when  the  jewelled  shrine  of 
the  Cross  of  St.  Neots  presented  itself  as  a  more 
tempting  spoil,4  for,  at  least,  it  does  not  appear  in  the 
inventory  of  the  treasure  recovered.5  Finally  we  meet 
with  a  notice  of  this  Book  once  more  on  the  road 
to  Scotland,  which  on  this  occasion  it  was  not  des¬ 
tined  to  reach.  In  the  inventory  of  Edward  I.’s  effects, 
taken  immediately  after  his  death  at  Burgh-on-the- 
Sands,  we  find  the  same  Red  Book  in  company  with  the 
heterogeneous  volumes  which  had  throughout  shared 
its  travels —  the  Book  of  Chronicles,  the  Book  of 
Romance,  the  works  of  devotion,  the  two  unknown 
Registers  with  silver-gilt  plates,6  together  with  the 


1  Q.  R.  Misc.  Warbrohe  if. 

2  Q.  R.  Misc.  Wardrobe  1aT27. 

3  Antiquities  and  Curiosities  of 
the  Exchequer,  p.  28. 

*  Pike,  History  of  Crime,  I.  198- 
202.  T.  of  R.  Misc.  ||. 

5  Q.  R.  Misc.  Wardrobe  if. 


6  As  throwing  some  light  upon 
the  preservation  of  some  of  these 
seemingly  trivial  works  in  the 
Royal  Treasury,  an  entry  in  the 
Issue  Roll,  Mich.,  39  Edw.  III. 
may  be  quoted,  which  records  the 
purchase  of  1  Bible,  3  books  of 


PREFACE. 


XV 


Cross  of  St.  Neots,  and  the  panoply  of  political  relics. 
Even  the  young  Queen’s  gift  of  five  years  back  was 
there,  with  the  inevitable  trunk  of  the  cloths  of  gold.* 1 

Two  questions  naturally  arise  from  a  consideration 
of  the  above  remarkable  occurrences.  In  the  first 
place  we  may  ask  was  this  possibly  the  Red  Book  of 
the  Exchequer?  It  will  be  observed  that  the  volume 
mentioned  in  these  accounts  was  best  known  in  con¬ 
nection  with  the  ceremony  of  receiving  the  oaths  of 
fealty  of  the  English  barons,  and  the  inference  might 
be  drawn  that  Edward  I.,  whose  characteristic  diplo¬ 
macy  in  his  feudal  relations  with  his  troublesome 
neighbours  of  Scotland  and  Wales  and  his  own  out¬ 
spoken  barons  took,  like  that  of  Louis  XI.  of  France, 
the  form  of  exacting  oaths  of  fealty  upon  certain  sacred 
emblems,  carried  an  official  formular  about  with  him 
for  this  purpose,  in  company  with  the  Cross  of  St. 
Neots,  the  Black  Rood  of  Scotland,  and  the  other  relics 
which  were  undoubtedly  used  on  these  occasions.2 3  In 
this  case  the  book  would  supply  the  forms  of  oaths  as 


romance,  1  Juvenal,  and  1  Porti- 
foriuru  from  the  goods  of  Henry 
deTatton,  “because  it  was  certified 
“  to  the  King  that  the  same  re- 
“  lated  to  the  solemnity  of  the 
■■  Feasts,  and  were  of  great  value.” 
The  plated  hooks  here  referred  to 
may*  possibly  have  been  the  same 
as  are  stated  to  have  been  stripped 
by  order  of  the  Council,  and  melted 
down  in  the  reign  of  Edward  VI. 
(Audit  O.,  Declared  Accounts, 
Bdle.  1533,  Roll  I.) 

1  The  atmosphere  of  the  charnel- 
house  which  pervaded  the  official 
and  diplomatic  life  of  the  Court  is 
quite  depressing,  even  to  a  modern 
student  of  the  Household  Accounts 
of  this  reign.  During  the  last  ten 
years  especially,  the  King  could  not 


j  move  without  a  whole  assortment 
j  of  coffers  and  shrines  filled  with 

I  relics  and  a  museum  of  choice 
I  curiosities,  such  as  a  vial  of  dra- 
I  gon’s  blood,  a  griffin’s  horn,  &c. 

Amidst  these  melancholy  sru'round- 
!  ings  we  are  not  surprised  to  find  a 
Wardrobe  clerk  embellishing  his 
account  with  the  following  sorrow- 
j  ful  ejaculation. — “  Ego  dixi  in  dimi- 
j  “  dio  dierum  meorum,  Vadam  ad 
j  “  portas  Inferi.” 

3  Wardrobe  Account,  28  Ed.  I. 
(Soc.  of  Antiquaries),  p.  xxx.  In 
the  Close  Roll,  34  Edw.  I.,  m.  3d., 
a  description  is  given  of  the  oath 
taken  by  James,  Seneschal  of  Scot¬ 
land,  on  the  Host  and  on  the  cross 
of  St.  Neotts  and  the  Black  Rood 
of  Scotland  in  the  King’s  presence. 


XVI 


PREFACE. 


well  as  the  emblems  of  and  verses  from  the  Evangelists, 
upon  which,  and  not  upon  the  New  Testament  itself, 
the  oaths  were  taken ;  but  it  is  quite  clear  that  neithei 
the  formula?  in  question  nor  the  emblems,  which  we 
may  suppose  to  have  resembled  those  depicted  in  the 
contemporary  Black  Book  of  the  Exchequer,  are  to 
be  found  in  the  modern  Bed  Book  of  that  Court,1 
although  existing  fragments  point  to  the  entry  of  such 
oaths  as  early  as  the  thirteenth  century.2 * 

There  is,  again  another  possible  explanation  of  this 
incident ;  that  the  King  was  engaged  during  this  period 
in  collecting  materials  for  a  statement  of  his  case  in 
respect  of  the  overlordship  of  Scotland,  and  that  the 
most  authoritative  collection  of  precedents  in  point 
was  preserved  in  this  Begister.’’  It  is  possible,  theie- 
fore,  that  the  latter  may  also  be  identified  with  the  Bed 
Book  of  Fees  which  was  delivered  on  the  20  Jan.  1301, 
under  the  Seal  of  the  Exchequer  to  the  Keepei  of 
the  Queen  s  Gold,  to  be  carried  to  the  Parliament  at 
Lincoln.4  Now  it  was  in  this  Parliament  that  the 
English  Baronage  issued  the  famous  manifesto  in  which, 
after  full  deliberation  and  inquiry,  they  denied  the 
right  of  the  Pope  to  interfere  in  the  Scotch  dispute, 


1  The  form  of  oath  taken  by  the  j 
Scoteh  King  and  his  barons  will  be 
found  in  Palgrave’s  “  Scotch  Docu¬ 
ments,”  and  in  the  proceedings 
printed  in  the  Foedera,  I.  762-84. 
We  know  further  that  the  chamber- 
lain  attended  on  this  and  similar 
occasions  (Close  Roll,  21  Edw.  I., 
m.  8d.),  and  this  officer  was  the 
legal  custodian  of  the  Red  Book 
and  other  Exchequer  Records. 

2  In  addition  to  these  original 
formula,  which  seem  to  have  been 

recovered,  stitched  in,  and  tran¬ 

scribed  at  the  close  of  the  xvth 
century,  we  know  that  a  formula 


for  the  Chancellor’s  oath  must  have 
beeu  used  at  the  Exchequer,  for  an 
interesting  direction  for  administer¬ 
ing  the  same  is  given  in  the  Q.  R. 
Memor,  boll,  Easter,  85  Edw.  I., 
rot.  38. 

3  Sec  below,  pp.  xxviii,  xxx. 

4  Q.  R.  Memor.,  29  Edw.  I., 
Rot.  31  d„  a  reference  for  which 
the  editor  is  indebted  to  the  kind¬ 
ness  of  Mr.  John  A.  C.  Vincent. 
Several  Memoranda  of  this  Parlia¬ 
ment  were  preserved  in  the  Exche¬ 
quer  iu  Bishop  Stapleton’s  time 
(Ival.  fo.  173). 


PREFACE. 


XVI 1 


reiterating  the  several  points  on  which  the  King  had 
relied  ten  years  previously,  based  upon  the  documents 
which  were  found  enrolled  in  this  book. 

That  Edward  was  quite  equal  to  the  responsibility 
of  removing  a  Record  from  official  custody  is  proved 
by  his  action  in  the  case  of  certain  Chancery  Hulls  at 
this  very  date,  the  chest  in  which  they  were  contained 
being  broken  open  by  the  King’s  orders,  and  the  Rolls 
forwarded  to  Scotland.  The  Exchequer  officials,  how¬ 
ever,  seem  to  have  been  allowed  the  cost  of  a  new 
lock  and  key.1 

The  second  question  that  arises  in  connection  with 
this  possible  disposition  of  the  Red  Book  in  the  King’s 
Wardrobe2  is,  how  did  the  officers  of  the  Exchequer 
fare  whilst  deprived  of  their  highly-prized  Register? 
During  the  greater  part  of  the  period  the  Exchequer 
was  resident  at  York,  having  been  transferred  thither 
in  the  26th  year.  From  the  detailed  description  which 
exists  of  the  mode  of  transfer  on  this  and  a  subsequent 
occasion  in  the  next  reign,  we  gather  that  the  entire 
contents  of  the  Treasury,  including  the  Records  and 
Tallies,  were  conveyed  with  enormous  labour  to  the 
northern  capital.3  It  is  conclusively  proved  by  another 
Wardrobe  account  of  the  35th  year4  that  the  Red  Book 
mentioned  above  was  received  by  the  King  from  Walter 
de  Langton,  the  Treasurer,  and  the  theory  that  this  MS. 


1  Close  Roll,  20  Edw.  I.,  m.  13  d. 

2  Although  no  one  who  was  ac¬ 
quainted  with  the  peculiar  functions 
exercised  by  the  Wardrobe  during 
this  reign  or  with  the  dispersal  of 
the  contents  of  the  central  Treasury 

would  be  surprised  at  the  above 
incident,  it  may  be  advisable  to 

point  to  one  undoubted  instance  of 
an  Exchequer  Register  being  lodged 
in  the  former  department  during 
this  period.  This  was  the  Liber 


Feodorum  or  Testa  de  Nevill,  and 
the  reference  is  to  the  Pells  Memo¬ 
randa  Roll,  Mich.  30  Edw.  I. 

3  Chronicles  of  Edw.  1.  and  II. 
(Rolls),  I.  286.  Cf.  Q.  R.  Memor. 
Brev.  Pasch.,  26  Edw.  I.,  and 
Q.  R.  Memor.  Commun.  Hil., 
15  Edw.  II.,  which  gives  the  best 
account  of  the  proceedings  of  such 
a  transfer. 

4  Q.  R.  Wardrobe  3§. 


63377. 


C 


XV111 


PREFACE. 


Third  case 
of  the 
order  of 
Richardl.’s 
coronation 
omitted. 


was  either  the  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer,  or  the 
entry  book  of  the  formula}  of  official  oaths  which  it 
formerly  contained,  receives  further  confirmation  from 
the  omission  of  several  intended  entries,  an  omission 
supplied  by  stitching  the  originals  in  their  proper  places.1 
We  are  especially  struck  with  the  omission  of  such  docu¬ 
ments  as  the  “  Confirmatio  Cartarum  ”  and  the  “  Articuli 
“  super  cartas  ”  in  the  25th  year,  and  that  of  the  “  Statute 
“  of  Carlisle  ”  in  the  35th  year.  It  is  even  possible  that 
the  fine  copies  of  these  documents,  still  preserved  among 
the  originals  of  the  Exchequer  Miscellanea  are  the  actual 
exemplars  from  which  the  entries  should  have  been 
made  had  the  Red  Book  been  available  at  the  time.2 

A  third  instance  of  palpable  omission  is  fur¬ 
nished  by  a  passage  in  the  History  of  Matthew  Paris. 
At  the  conclusion  of  the  description  of  Richard  I.’s 
coronation  in  the  “  Historia  Anglorum  ”  the  follow¬ 
ing  remarkable  note  is  appended  by  the  author : — 
“  Officia  prelatorum  et  magnatum  quae  ab  antiquo 
“  jure  et  consuetudine  in  regum  coronationibus  sibi 
“  vindicant  et  facere  debent,  in  rotulis  Scaccarii 
“  poterunt  reperiri.”3  This  note  is  partly  written 
over  an  erasure,  but  in  the  Abbreviatio  by  the 
same  author  the  following  note  is  embodied  in  the 
text  : — “  Et  quia  exigit  plenitudo  historiae  officia 
“  quorundam  magnatum  qui  (sic)  in  coronationibus  ha- 
“  bent  implere,  de  antiqua  consuetudine,  lectorem  hujus 
“  libelli  abbreviati  ad  historiam  transmitto  prolixiorem, 
“  quae  in  consuetudinibus  Scaccarii  poterit  reperiri.” 4 
As  there  exists  at  the  present  day  no  Exchequer  roll 
or  custumal  in  which  an  account  of  the  services  ren¬ 
dered  at  the  Coronation  of  Richard  I.  is  entered,  it 

1  In  one  case  the  original  thus  Bishop  Stapleton’s  Calendar,  fo. 
inserted  bears  the  contemporary  150,  in  support  of  this  view. 

note  “Scribatur  hoc  primo  in  Libro  3  Hist.  Anglor.  (Rolls),  II.  8. 

“  Rubro.”  4  Ibid.  III.,  209. 

2  T.  of  R.  Misc.  \e,  V-  See 


PREFACE. 


XIX 


might  be  thought  that  this  is  a  vague  and  general 
reference  to  an  earlier  tradition  or  to  the  later  and 
surviving  precedents  in  connection  with  the  corona¬ 
tion  of  Eleanor  of  Provence.  There  are  good  reasons, 
however,  for  believing  that  such  an  account  as  is 
here  referred  to  must  have  once  existed  for  the  former 
event,  since  Hoveden,  Bromton,1  and  other  authorities 
give  an  abbreviated  narrative,  which  is  fuund  in  a 
more  detailed  form  in  a  transcript  of  the  so-called 
chronicle  of  John  Beaver,  which  is  inserted,  curiously 
enough,  in  a  Cotton  MS.  behind  the  narrative  of  the 
coronation  of  Henry  III.’s  Queen 2  from  the  Bed  Book 
of  the  Exchequer.  Here,  in  addition  to  other  technical 
allusions  there  is  the  following  passage: — “  Comites 
“  autem  et  barones,  sicut  eorum  solebant  patres,  servie- 
“  runt.”  It  can  scarcely  be  doubted,  therefore,  that 
Matthew  Paris’s  reference  was  to  some  Exchequer  Prece¬ 
dent  Book  which  no  longer  exists ;  but  considerable  light 
is  thrown  upon  the  relationship  of  this  missing  Begister 
by  the  unmistakeable  reference  to  the  source  of  the 
same  historian’s  later  description  of  the  pageant  of 
1236.  This  occurs  in  a  marginal  note  in  the  following 
words  : — “  Hsec  omnia  in  consuetudinario  Scaccarii  me- 
“  lius  et  plenius  reperientur.”  It  will  be  shown  pre¬ 
sently  that  this  reference  at  least  is  to  the  Bed  Book 
of  the  Exchequer. 


III. 

The  result  of  modern  research  tends  more  and  more 
to  confirm  the  old  tradition  of  an  official  establishment 
under  the  earlier  Norman  Kings,  capable  of  performing 


1  Col.  1158. 

2  MS.  Cotton.  Vesp.  C.  xiv.  It 
is  curious,  too,  that  the  same  piece 
occurs  in  two  other  Elizabethan 


transcripts  of  the  Red  Book,  Claud. 
C.  iv.,  and  State  Papers  Misc.,  No 
40. 


c  2 


Preserva¬ 
tion  of 
historical 
documents, 


XX 


PREFACE. 


used  by 
contem¬ 
porary 
historians, 


in  the 
Royal 
Treasury 


the  ordinary  clerical  duties  which  were  definitely  as¬ 
signed  to  the  staff  of  the  Chancery  and  Exchequer  little 
more  than  fifty  years  after  the  Conqueror’s  death.  Be 
this  as  it  may,  it  is  certain  that  many  public  instru¬ 
ments  were  issued  from  and  received  in  the  Curia  of 
the  Norman  Kings,  for  the  texts  of  these  instruments 
have  been  preserved  by  certain  chroniclers,  as  well  as 
in  private  Registers,  and  we  cannot  suppose  that  the 
scribes  obtained  their  intelligence  from  any  other  source 
than  the  Curia  itself,  facility  of  access  to  which  is 
the  best  known  test  of  the  value  of  every  history  of  the 
twelfth  century  at  least.  One  possible  means  of  com¬ 
munication  is  indicated  by  the  relations  which  existed 
between  historians,  like  William  of  Malmesbury  or 
Henry  of  Huntingdon,  and  patrons  like  Bishops  Roger 
of  Salisbury  and  Alexander  of  Lincoln.  It  was  also 
possible,  nay,  easy,  for  a  favoured  historiographer  at 
the  court  of  a  literary  sovereign  to  obtain  access  to 
documents  which  may  even  have  been  the  common 
property  of  the  learned  crowd  of  courtiers.  The 
supposition  is  by  no  means  improbable,  neither  is  it 
very  new,  but  it  does  not  help  us  to  answer  two  ques¬ 
tions  of  very  great  importance.  The  first  is ;  what  was 
the  system  adopted  for  the  custody  of  these  official  docu¬ 
ments  ?  The  second  is;  by  what  agency  have  they  been 
preserved  to  us  in  certain  official  or  private  Registers  ? 

As  far  back  as  we  can  trace  the  issue  of  royal  laws 
or  royal  missives,  even  back  to  the  remote  antiquity 
of  Oriental  monarchy,  we  shall  find  these  two  essential 
conditions  of  their  composition  and  preservation,  a 
clerical  staff  and  a  repository.  The  first  of  these  con¬ 
ditions  varied  in  character  with  the  nationality  or 
requirements  of  the  kingly  state,  but  the  second  almost 
invariably  took  the  form  of  a  sanctuary  wherein  the 
royal  rolls  kept  company  with  the  royal  treasure.1 


1  Palgrave  Kal  a  ad  Invent.  I.  xiv. 


PREFACE. 


XXI 


The  existence  of  such  a  treasure-house  under  the 
Saxon  and  Norman  Kings  can  be  more  easily  con¬ 
jectured  than  proved,  in  spite  of  the  casual  references 
in  contemporary  chronicles,  and  the  tradition  of  a 
later  age,  which  assigns  its  position  to  the  Church  of 
Westminster  and  the  Castle  of  Winchester  alternately. 

That  such  archives  existed  is  proved  by  the  fact  that 
.specimens  have  survived,  while  their  very  preservation, 
under  all  the  circumstances,  might  be  held  to  prove 
their  sufficient  custody.  We  are,  however,  absolutely 
devoid  of  delinite  information  as  to  the  system  which 
may  have  existed  for  this  purpose. 

It  is  not  insisted  on  here  as  a  hard  and  fast  rule,  at  West- 
that  access  to  every  public  instrument  was  obtained  ^^dse- 
by  the  professional  historian  only  through  the  medium  where, 
of  the  Exchequer.  The  royal  Treasury,  situated  in 
the  Exchequer  Buildings  at  Westminster,  was  from  the 
middle  of  the  twelfth  century  at  least  the  normal  repo¬ 
sitory  of  the  State  Archives,1  but  there  were  also  other 
temporary  or  extraordinary  treasuries  which  served 
equally  as  repositories  of  Records  during  the  next 
century.  The  Camera  Regis  and  the  Wardrobe,  or 
indeed  the  strong-room  of  any  royal  castle  or  church 
might  be  utilized  for  this  purpose,2  yet  it  is  not  to  this 
local  distribution  of  the  archives,  even  if  it  obtained 
to  any  extent,  that  we  must  look  for  an  explanation 
of  their  provincial  publication.  Copies  of  the  most 
important  documents  were  frequently  communicated 
for  the  information  of  spiritual  and  lay  magnates,  and 
their  preservation  was  thus  directly  ensured  in  private 
Registers,  let  if  the  existing  Domesday  Book  was  in¬ 
deed  compiled  in  the  Conqueror’s  reign,  there  must  have 


1  Antiquities  and  Curiosities  of  ^ 
the  Exchequer,  eh.  1.  Pipe  Rolls, 

2  Hen.  II.,  Lond.  andMidds.  Pipe 
Rolls,  13  &  14  Hen.  II.,  Combus-  , 


tiones.  Dialogus  de  Scaccario, 
Preface.  Ibid.  I.  5  and  14. 

2  Eyton,  Itinerary,  &c.  of  Henry 
II.  passim.  Ar.tiq.  and  Curiosities 
of  Exchequer,  pp.  11-14. 


XXII 


PREFACE. 


or  in  the 

Camera 

Curia, 


been  some  clerical  organization  available  for  the  purpose, 
curial  or  fiscal,1  and  if  William  of  Malmesbury  and  Henry 
of  Huntingdon  saw  and  copied  State  Papers  under 
Henry  I.  and  Stephen,  there  must  equally  have  been 
facilities  for  the  work  of  royal  scribes  and  custodians. 
As  some  solution  of  this  problem  was  imperative, 
historians  have  very  reasonably  assigned  these  duties 
to  a  staff  of  royal  chaplains  or  clerks,  who  may  as 
well  be  supposed  to  have  performed  similar  duties 
under  William  I.  as  during  the  new  organization  of 
the  Curia  and  Exchequer  in  the  reign  of  Henry  I. 
They  have  also  assigned  as  the  scene  of  these  clerical 
labours  the  Camera  of  the  peripatetic  Curia. 

According  to  the  above  theory  it  must  have  been 
from  this  Camera,  the  common  ante-chamber  of  the 
Curia  and  Exchequer  alike,  that  the  documents  com¬ 
municated  to  the  'proteges  of  Roger  Bishop  of  Salisbury 
and  his  nephew  were  issued.  In  some  respects,  and  espe¬ 
cially  in  order  to  overcome  certain  archaeological  diffi¬ 
culties,  it  would  be  preferable  to  waive  this  view  of 
the  royal  Camera,  and  frankly  to  suppose  that  the  docu¬ 
ments  in  question  were  actually  lent  to  the  historian, 
or  at  least  inspected  bv  him  out  of  official  custody ; 
but  this  suggestion  is  so  entirely  at  variance  with  our 
knowledge  of  the  elaborate  safeguards  and  checks  em¬ 
ployed  only  in  the  next  generation  for  the  preservation 
of  such  records  that  we  must  absolutely  reject  it. 
The  gap  must  indeed  be  a  wide  one,  not  in  time  but 
in  point  of  practice,  between  the  accepted  view  of 
William  of  Malmesbury  borrowing  the  national  records 
from  a  complacent  minister  and  that  of  the  same  minis¬ 
ter's  nephew  and  great-nephews  seated  at  work  in 
the  Exchequer  buildings  at  Westminster — buildings 
which  were  apparently  as  ruinous  through  age  as  the 
Saxon  palace  itself — surrounded  by  a  vast  collection 


1  Eyton,  “  Notes  on  Domesday.” 


PREFACE. 


XXlll 


of  records  and  registers  compiled  absolutely  upon  the 
same  plan  that  was  destined  to  endure  for  centuries, 
bestowed  with  the  most  jealous  care  in  presses  and 
chests  secured  with  iron  bands  and  triplicate  locks, 
under  the  charge  of  a  large  and  highly  trained  staff 
of  clerks  whose  foremost  instruction  was  that  nothing 
should  be  taken  away  without  the  written  order  of  the 
Court.1 

Therefore  until  further  light  is  thrown  upon  the 
shadowy  fabric  of  this  Camera,  and  yet  equally  without 
insisting  over-much  upon  the  theory  invited  by  the  arch¬ 
aeology  of  the  Westminster  Exchequer,  it  may  be  worth 
while  to  pursue  our  inquiry  from  another  starting  point. 

There  is  no  part  of  our  limited  information  regarding 
the  practice  of  the  Exchequer  in  the  twelfth  century 
more  clearly  defined  than  the  references  which  we  possess 
to  the  practice  of  registering  original  documents  affect¬ 
ing  the  state  of  the  King’s  revenue  or  the  personal 
interests  of  the  officials.  The  originals  in  question  have 
only  survived  in  a  few  cases,  but  in  many  others  their 
contents  have  been  preserved  in  certain  Registers. 
Domesday  Book,  the  official  example  of  a  group  of 
kindred  feodaries,  is  an  instance  of  this  practice,  almost 
as  early  as  the  Conquest,  in  respect  of  one  important 
branch  of  fiscal  procedure.2  It  is  scarcely  to  be  believed 
that  the  elaborate  organization  of  the  Exchequer  under 
Roger  of  Salisbury,  Nigel  of  Ely,  Richard  of  London, 
and  William  of  Ely  should  have  been  destitute  of  such 
appliances  for  necessary  reference.  Therefore  it  really 
matters  very  little  whether  the  feodaries,  year-rolls, 
royal  writs,  charters  and  diplomatic  documents  which 


1  Dialogus ,  i.  5. 

2  Item  in  alio  libro  Thesauri 
Regis  tempore  Willelmi  Regis  .  .  . 
abreviatio  hidarum.  Cotton  MS., 
Claud.  C.  ix.,  fo.  185  d.,  cf.  Hen.  of 
Huntingdon,  and  Heming’s  Cartu¬ 
lary  as  to  the  “  autentica  Cartula 


“  Regis  ”  coeval  with  the  Domes¬ 
day  Survey,  quoted  by  Mr.  Round 
in  Domesday  Studies,  Vol.  TL, 
p.  546,  and  cf.  Registrum  R offense, 
p.  71.  See  also  Mr.  Birch’s 
“  Materials  for  re-editing  Domes- 
“  day  Book,”  Ibid.,  p.  485  et  seq. 


and  in  the 
later  Ex¬ 
chequer. 


XXIV 


PREFACE. 


They  were 
preserved 
by  famous 
Exchequer 
clerks. 


are  known  to  have  keen  in  existence  during  the  reign 
of  Henry  T.,  were  preserved  in  the  Camera  or  in  that 
ante  room  of  the  Treasury  or  Exchequer  known  as  the 
Receipt  (which  unlike  the  Barons’  Chamber  did  not 
follow  the  Court),  so  long  as  it  can  be  shown  that  the 
officials  themselves  were  busied  with  the  registration 
of  such  documents  as  appeared  important  on  personal 
or  official  grounds.  Just  as  we  are  apt  to  forget  that 
feudal  inquisitions  were  so  inrolled  from  the  reign  of 
the  Conqueror,  so  we  too  frequently  ignore  the  positive 
notices  and  even  the  surviving  fragments  of  other  in- 
rolments  in  which  historical  documents  may  as  easily 
have  found  a  place  as  in  the  unbroken  series  which 
dates  from  the  first  years  of  the  thirteenth  century.1  The 
Camera  or  Receipt  of  the  twelfth  century  had  not  much 
to  learn  from  the  monastic  scriptorium,  and  may  at 
least  be  credited  with  a  similar  desultory  but  invaluable 
practice  of  registration,  of  which  the  Inquisition  of 
Templars’  lands  and  the  lesser  Black  Book  of  the  Ex¬ 
chequer  are  amongst  the  earliest  surviving  examples.  It 
might  be  objected  to  this  view  of  a  system  of  purely 
official  registration  that  the  official  instinct  itself  was 

o 

incompatible  with  the  single-hearted  devotion  of  the 
royal  service  of  that  age;  but  the  whole  tone  of  the 
Dialogus  reveals  on  the  contrary  a  naive  adherence  to 
vested  interests  in  the  face  of  the  requirements  <  f  the 
royal  service.2  Therefore  if  the  satire  which  charged 
the  great  clerical  treasurers  with  a  too  strict  devotion 
to  the  revenue  roll  in  place  of  the  missal  be  just,  it 
should  at  least  be  added  that,  all  anti-clerical  and  anti- 
feudal  though  tliey  were,  they  read  the  former  by  the 
rubric  of  the  memoranda  of  their  official  privileges.3 

The  question  that  we  have  to  answer,  and  on  which 
the  origin  and  position  of  the  Red  Book  of  the  Ex- 


1  Dialogus,  I.  14,  which  enume¬ 
rates  lost  enrolments,  fragments  of 
which  may  still  be  identified. 


3  Ibid.,  I.  8  and  11. 

3  Court  Life  under  the  Plantaga 
nets,  238-240,  2G9. 


PREFACE. 


XXV 


chequer  really  depends,  is  this,  whether  the  science  of 
the  Exchequer  in  which  Bishops  Roger  and  Nigel, 
and  even  Henry  of  Winchester,  were  so  fully  versed,  did 
in  fact  perish  with  them ;  or  whether  it  formed  the 
basis  of  the  later  collections  of  Richard  Fitz-Nigel  and 
Alexander  de  Swereford.  The  latter’s  allusion  to  the 
technical  works  of  the  four  great  Treasurers  of  the 
twelfth  century  and  first  decade  of  the  thirteenth  is  very 
slight,  hut  it  is  confirmed  in  one  instance  by  the  sur¬ 
vival  of  an  inestimable  treatise.  We  may  remember, 
too,  that  Richard  Fitz-Nigel  himself  attributes  his 
knowledge  of  Exchequer  practice  to  the  gleanings  of 
his  predecessor’s  science,  while  his  admiring  references 
to  the  official  skill  of  the  great  organizer  of  the  Ex¬ 
chequer,  like  that  of  Swereford  himself  to  the  repute 
of  William  of  Ely,1  with  some  other  indications,  tend 


1  It  may  be  to  the  purpose  of 
the  present  argument  to  point  out 
that  this  Treasurer  may  have  in¬ 
herited  his  skill  in  Exchequer 
practice,  for  it  it  quite  possible 
that  he  was  Richard  Eitz-Nigel’s 
brother.  The  latter  was  also  fre¬ 
quently  spoken  of  as  “  Elyensis  ” — 
from  the  monastery  where,  like 
William,  he  w'as  probably  educated. 
This  theory  receives  further  con¬ 
firmation  from  the  fact  that  Richard 
Eitz-Nigel  himself  was  known  to 
one  at  least  of  the  scribes  of  the 
Historia  Elietisis  as  “  Franciscus.” 
In  the  Pipe  Roll,  1  John,  Essex 
and  Herts,  William  the  Treasurer 
accounted  for  Richard’s  lands,  and 
was  pardoned  three-fourths  of  a 
year’s  rent  in  respect  of  them.  The 
point  is  of  real  interest,  because 
considerable  confusion  has  hitherto 
prevailed  as  to  the  identity  of  the 
Treasurer  under  whom  Swereford 
laboured  at  the  Exchequer  with 


such  grateful  devotion,  and  who 
has  been  frequently  confused  with 
William  de  S.  Mariae  Ecclesia,  and 
with  William  Longchamps,  bishop 
of  Elyr,  himself.  William  of  Ely, 
the  Treasurer,  was  also  a  church¬ 
man,  and  the  Stall  of  Leighton  was 
conferred  on  him  during  voidance 
of  the  See  of  Lincoln  (Pat.  9  John, 
m.  6).  On  the  other  hand,  it  should 
be  noticed  that  no  such  brother  of 
Richard  is  mentioned  by  the  his¬ 
torian  of  Ely  (Licbermann,  Einlei- 
tung,  p.  30,  n.  2)  ;  but  this  may'  be 
due  to  a  great  disparity  in  the  ages 
of  the  brothers,  since  Richard  was 
introduced  into  the  service  of  the 
Crown  soon  after  1 1 58,  and  William 
“Auglicus”  does  not  appear  as  a 
Baron  of  the  Exchequer  before 
1184.  Richard  the  Treasurer  died 
in  1198,  arid  William  the  Treasurer 
in  1222;  yet,  as  Bishop  Mgel  sur¬ 
vived  till  1169,  this  younger  son  may 
wrell  have  lived  till  the  latter  date. 


XXVI 


PREFACE. 


Early 

documents 

enrolled 


in  semi¬ 
official 
Registers. 


to  strengthen  the  suspicion  that  from  the  reign  of 
Henry  I.  onwards,  documents  of  historical  or  official 
interest  were  transcribed  in  semi-official  registers  by 
the  hands  or  under  the  direction  of  these  treasurers 
themselves,  and  at  least  it  can  be  shown  that  three 
important  documents  were  thus  preserved. 

Of  the  above  the  first  is  the  convention  of  1101,  be¬ 
tween  Henry  I.  and  Robert,  Count  of  Flanders,  which  is 
entered  in  the  Small  Black  Book  of  the  Exchequer. 
The  second  is  an  establishment  of  the  King’s  House, 
which  apparently  refers  to  the  Ducal  Court  in  Nor¬ 
mandy  about  the  year  1135.1  The  third,  a  Return  of 
Norman  Knights’  Fees,  can  be  dated  in  the  year  1172, 
but  a  still  earlier  Inquest  of  the  Fees  of  the  Bishopric 
of  Bayeux,  appended  to  this  return,  goes  back  to  the 
year  1133.2  Here  then  we  have  documents  of  an 
official  interest  dating  from  the  reign  of  Henry  I., 
which  have  been  transcribed  for  better  preservation 
in  an  official  Precedent  Book,  dated  in  its  present 
form  only  from  the  second  quarter  of  the  thirteenth 
century.3  It  will  be  obvious  that  any  document  pre¬ 
served  in  the  Norman  Exchequer,  could  not  have 
been  copied  by  an  English  scribe  later  than  the  year 
1204,  and  it  is  a  curious  fact  that  the  Inquest  of  1133 
was  taken  before  Robert  of  Gloucester,  the  patron  of 
courtly  historians,  and  the  contemporary  of  Alexander, 
Bishop  of  Lincoln,  to  whom  the  Expositiones  Vocabu¬ 
lorum  were  generally  attributed  in  the  thirteenth  and 
fourteenth  centuries.4 

At  the  same  time  it  cannot  yet  be  proved  that  these 
interesting  twelfth  century  fragments  were  once  con- 


1  Stapleton,  Norman  Rolls,  I.  xx. 

2  Ibid.,  II.  xi. 

3  More  than  one  of  the  Returns 
of  Knights’  Fees  in  the  Exchequer 

Registers  can  be  dated  in  the  reign 
of  Henry  I. 


4  For  the  possible  origin  of  the 
Expositiones  Vocabvlorum,  see  Pre¬ 
face  to  Part  III.,  where  the  question 
is  discussed  at  length. 


PREFACE. 


XXV11 


tained  in  an  official  Register  in  the  sense  that  we  apply  the 
term  to  the  later  contents  of  the  Red  Book.  We  may 
even  consider  them  as  analogous  to  the  collections  of 
laws,  charters,  and  diplomatic  correspondence  of  a  still 
earlier  period,  preserved  in  some  lost  Register  connected 
with  the  Quadripartitus,  which  itself  was  possibly 
inspired  through  Archbishop  Gerard’s  connection  with 
the  Curia  during  the  first  decade  of  the  century.  These 
are,  in  fact,  like  the  original  sections  of  the  Red  Book, 
private  collections — libelli — evoked  by  the  vigorous 
existence  of  a  central  government,  and  tinged  with  a 
strong  monarchical  bias — precursors  of  the  Dialogus  de 
Scaccario  and  the  Tractatus  de  legibus  Anglice.  This 
book  was  made  for  Archbishop  Gerard,  that  for  Bishop 
Alexander;  this  by  Richard  the  Treasurer,  that  by 
Alexander  the  Archdeacon.  There  was  certainly  no 
other  way  of  learning  the  country’s  history  and  policy 
from  documentary  evidence  than  through  the  Curia, 
but  a  Malmesbury  monk  instructed  by  the  Bishop  of 
Salisbury  in  the  earlier  period,  and  a  St.  Alban’s 
monk,  by  the  Archdeacon  of  Salop,  in  the  later 
period,  were  in  as  favourable  a  position  to  all  appear¬ 
ance  as  the  King’s  clerk,  who  was  able  to  turn  over 
the  originals  with  his  own  hand.  The  book  could  be 

O 

made,  and  it  was  made ;  it  could  be  inspected  by  future 
historians,  and  it  was  inspected  ;  the  only  difference  is 
this,  that  the  borrowed  text  is  often  seriously  corrupt 
compared  with  that  of  the  Register,  which  contained 
a  direct  transcript  from  the  original. 

Still,  with  all  these  facilities  for  hasty  perusal  or 
leisurely  transcription,  there  was  undoubtedly  a  re¬ 
siduum  of  highly  important  documents  which  seem  to 
have  been  accessible  only  to  the  most  privileged  his¬ 
torian  through  the  Exchequer  itself,  probably  because 
these  instruments  were  such  as  directly  or  indirectly 
concerned  the  state  of  the  King’s  revenue,  and  for  that 
reason  were  transmitted  directly  into  the  Barons’  Cham- 


Practiee  of 
registering 
certain 
Exchequer 
Prece¬ 
dents. 


xxvm 


PREFACE. 


Instances 
of  histori¬ 
cal  docu¬ 
ments  so 
preserved, 


and  some¬ 
times  used 
by  contem¬ 
porary 
historians. 


ber.  Here,  since  the  distinction  of  the  Exchequer  as 
an  independent  and  jealously  guarded  department  of  the 
Curia,  they  were  not  easily  accessible,  the  proof  being 
that  several  most  important  documents  remained  undis¬ 
covered  down  to  our  own  times,  while  still  more  would 
have  shared  the  same  fate  but  for  the  accidental  connec¬ 
tion  of  three  great  historians  with  the  Exchequer  itself. 

The  documents  in  the  nature  of  State  Papers,  dated 
during  the  second  half  of  the  twelfth  century,  which 
are  entered  in  the  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer,  are  seven 
in  number,  all  of  the  greatest  historical  interest.  The 
first  of  these  is  the  Convention  of  Westminster,  1153, 
between  King  Stephen  and  Henry  Fitz-Empress.  The 
only  text  of  this  document  hitherto  noticed  is  that 
preserved  in  the  Exchequer  Registers,  but,  as  might 
have  been  expected  from  its  date  and  general  interest, 
two  other  authoritative  texts  exist  in  the  Chroni¬ 
cle  of  Bromton,  and  the  Gurney  (Macro)  MS.1  In 
the  case  of  the  next  two  documents  in  order  of 
date,  however,  the  Conventions  of  1103,  between 
Henry  II.  and  the  Court  of  Flanders,  no  other  text 
than  that  of  the  Red  and  Black  Books  is  known 
to  exist.  The  fourth  document  is  the  famous  Con¬ 
vention  of  Falaise,  otherwise  the  submission  and 
homage  made  to  Henry  II.  by  William  the  Lion,  in 
1175.  This  was  transcribed  by  Diceto  and  Benedict 
Abbas2  the  latter  of  whom  only  alludes  to  the  next 
document  of  this  series — the  alleged  forged  letter  of 
William  the  Lion  to  the  Pope  in  the  matter  of  the 
subjection  of  the  Scotch  Church  to  the  See  of  York3 — 


1  Since  these  lines  were  written 
Mr.  Macray  has  published  the  text 
of  the  Macro  MS.  in  the  Hist.  MSS. 
Commission  1891,  Appendix  ix., 
p.  119,  see  Liebermann  Quadripar¬ 
titus,  pp.  66  and  74,  for  a  full 
account  of  the  MSS.  The  context 


of  this  treaty  is  also  in  Diceto  ( anno 
1153)  and  it  is  partially  transcribed 
in  the  MS.  Claud.  D.  II.,  a  fact  not 
generally  known. 

2  Diceto,  I.  396,  Ben.  Abb.,  I.  96. 

3  Ben.  Abb,  I.  111. 


PREFACE. 


XXIX 


but  Avlio  again  transcribes  the  release  of  the  Scotch 
homage  made  by  Richard  I.  in  1189.1  The  remaining 
document  of  the  series,  the  writ  of  Richard  I.,  author¬ 
izing  tournaments  under  certain  conditions  in  1194, 
was  described  by  Hoveden,  who  quoted  portions  of 
its  contents  in  a  very  abridged  form.2 

It  is  surely  something  more  than  a  coincidence  that 
Benedict  began  to  write  in  1171,  and  therefore  some 
years  after  the  date  of  the  first  three  of  the  above- 
mentioned  documents,  that  he  has  been  proved  with 
almost  absolute  certainty  to  have  been  none  other  than 
Richard  Fitz-Nigel,  the  King’s  Treasurer  and  the  author 
of  the  Dialogus  de  Scaccario,  and  that  Hoveden,  who, 
following  in  his  footsteps,  transcribed  the  same  docu¬ 
ments,  perhaps  independently,  and  continuing  his  work 
from  the  year  1192,  noticed  the  last  of  these  documents 
on  his  own  account,  was  also  qualified  by  his  official 
position  to  obtain  access  to  Exchequer  records.3  The 
original  of  one  of  the  above  instruments  which  still 
survives  enables  us  to  ascertain  that  the  historian’s 
version  bears  traces  of  a  derivation  from  another 
source.  What  this  source  may  have  been  the  re¬ 
markable  reference  made  by  a  slightly  later  writer 
will  perhaps  enable  us  to  surmise.  The  reference  in 
question  is  that  previously  alluded  to  of  Matthew 
Paris  to  the  “rolls”  or  “custumal”  of  the  Exchequer, 
wherein  a  certain  document  of  the  reign  of  Richard  I. 
is  stated  to  have  been  entered,  which  no  longer  exists 
in  the  Red  Book  or  in  any  other  Exchequer  MS.4 

Here  we  are  fortunately  no  longer  dependent  on  a 
comparison  of  handwriting  or  a  reconstruction  of  the 


1  Ibid.,  II.  102. 

2  Hov.,  III.  268. 

3  Iu  the  fine  MS.  of  this  his¬ 

torian’s  work,  preserved  in  the 
Inner  Temple,  reference  is  made  to 
a  Liber  Curiali *,  which,  if  it  he 


not  actually  one  of  the  lost  portions 
of  the  Tricohiinnus,  may  have  been 
a  similar  semi-official  Register  of 
Precedents.  Hist.  MSS.  Com.  1888, 
Appx.  7.  P.  229. 

4  P-  xviij. 


Inference 
that  they 
used  Ex¬ 
chequer 
Registers. 


Matthew 
Paris  and 
the  Ex¬ 
chequer 
clerks. 


XXX 


PREFACE. 


Other 
instances 
of  probable 
enrolment. 


» 


original  folios.  We  know  from  the  historian’s  own 
words  that  he  was  in  the  habit  of  questioning  the 
Exchequer  clerks  about  matters  of  state,1  that  he 
had  access  to  Exchequer  records  and  knew  their  value,2 
and  that  he  was  acquainted  personally  with  Alexander 
de  Swereford,  whose  capabilities  as  an  historical  col¬ 
lector  he  highly  valued.3  Finally  we  have  two  distinct 
references  to  Swereford’s  work  which  prove  that  he 
was  in  possession  of  such  a  Register  as,  we  shall  pre¬ 
sently  see,  was  probably  begun  by  him  early  in  the 
remn  of  John,  and  added  to  from  time  to  time  down 
to  bis  very  death,  a  Register  of  which  the  contents  of 
the  two  famous  Exchequer  MSS.  and  the  historical 
documents  noticed  in  Benedict  and  Hoveden,  and 
Matthew  Paris  alike,  are  but  partial  and  in  many 
respects  disappointing  survivals.4 

It  is  possible  therefore  that  the  Court  historians  of 
the  latter  part  of  the  twelfth  century  were  indebted  to 
this  lost  work,  or  to  a  kindred  Register  for  other  docu¬ 
ments  than  those  which  are  still  preserved  in  the  Red  and 
Black  Books  of  the  Exchequer.  For  instance,  Hoveden 
and  the  author  of  an  Itinerary  of  Richard  I.  notice  the 


1  “  Sicut  [audivimus]  a  fide  dig- 
“  nis  clericis  conclavis  qui  super 
“  hoc  rotulos  revolverant  et  sum- 
“  mas  diligenter  computaverant.” 
Chron  Major,  v.  627.  Paris  im¬ 
plies  else  where  that  be  was  personal¬ 
ly  familiar  with  the  Receipt  of  the 
Exchequer  or  the  Wardrobe. 

2  “  Hacc  est  forma  cart®  revera  in 
“  Thesauro  ”  Hist.  Minor,  II.  296. 

3  “  Magistri  Alexandri  de  Suere- 
“  ford,  in  historiis  periti  et  exer- 
“  citati.”  Pp.  xlviii.  and  lxij.  infra, 
and  for  the  whole  subject  Mon. 
Germ,  xxviii.  See  also  Chron. 
Major  Addit.,  vi.  519,  n.  1. 

4  Referring  the  reader  to  an 
authoritative  text  of  the  letter  of 


Pope  Innocent  III.  to  King  John 
in  the  year  1215,  Matthew  Paris 
writes,  “  Respice  rotulum  de  Scacca- 
“  rio  Magistri  Alexandri  de  Swere- 
“  ford  ”  ( Hist .  Anglor.,  II.  162). 
Again  he  writes  elsewhere,  “  Incipe 
“  in  primo  rotulo  scripto  inter  rotu- 
“  los  parvos  magistri  Alexandri  de 
“  Swereford,  clerici  de  Scaccario,” 
(Ibid.,  II.  182).  Neither  of  these 
documents  is  to  be  found  in  the  exist¬ 
ing  Red  Book.  Cf.  the  reference  in 
the  Eiefs  of  Normandy,  at  fo.  151  d 
of  the  MS.,  to  iste  rotulus  as  the 
exemplar,  a  phrase  not  found  in  the 
French  Registers.  Cf.  also  in  Regis¬ 
trant  II offense,  p.  71,  “  vestros  rotu¬ 
los  continentes  omnia  feoda  regni.” 


PREFACE. 


XXXI 


convention  made  in  the  year  1194  for  the  entertainment 
( corredium )  of  the  Scotch  King  at  a  fixed  tariff  during 
his  visits  to  England,1  and  the  language  of  this  in¬ 
strument  proclaims  its  official  origin  in  connection 
with  the  Constitutio  Domus  Regis  of  the  Exchequer 
Registers.  This  document  would  almost  certainly  have 
been  entered  as  a  Precedent,  and  here  by  a  strange  chance 
the  original  still  exists2  to  prove  that  the  historians 
derived  their  texts  from  some  other  copy.  The  circum¬ 
stantial  evidence  of  the  Scotch  Documents  receives  an 
important  confirmation  from  the  proceedings  during 
the  assertion  of  the  English  Supremacy  in  1291-92. 

On  this  occasion  returns  were  received  by  the  Crown 
from  numerous  English  monasteries,  in  the  shape  of 
extracts  from  the  Chronicles  in  their  possession  bearing 
on  the  question  at  issue.  In  only  two  instances,  how¬ 
ever,  were  authentic  texts  forthcoming  of  any  of  the 
instruments  above  referred  to,  the  Convention  of  1175 
having  been  preserved  in  the  Chronicles  of  Bridlington 
and  Croyland,  to  which  houses  it  had  probably  been 
communicated  during  the  King’s  progress  from  York. 

In  both  cases  the  transcript  produced  was  ignored  by 
the  Commissioners,  who  had  the  Exchequer  Register, 
or  even  the  originals  themselves,  in  view  as  evidence 
for  this  part  of  their  case,  although  they  gladly  availed 
themselves  of  such  documentary  evidence  as  does  not 
now,  and  probably  did  not  then,  exist  in  the  Red  Book.3 

For  the  first  quarter  or  more  of  the  thirteenth  cen-  Exchequer 
tury,  there  is  the  same  gap  in  the  series  of  historical  ReSlsters 

J  _  <  1  not  always 

documents  which  might  be  derived  from  an  Exchequer  available  to 
source  as  existed  between  the  years  1141  and  1170.  hlstorians- 
Several  historical  memoranda  of  great  interest  are 


1  Hoveden,  III.  24.3,  Itinerarium 
Regis  Ricardi,  quoted  in  Scotch 
Poets.,  p.  106. 

5  Palgrave,  Scotch  Docts.,  No. 
xxviij.  The  original  in  question  was 


apparently  one  of  the  documents 
(negotia  tangentia  Angliam)  cap¬ 
tured  at  Edinburgh,  (Ayloffe,  340.) 
3  Palgrave,  Scotch  Docts.,  134. 


XXX11 


PREFACE. 


known  to  us  only  from  the  transcripts  preserved  in 
the  Red  Book,  or  from  the  originals  in  the  few  cases 
in  which  they  have  survived.  Once  more  we  must 
suppose  that  Wendover  and  Walter  of  Coventry  had 
no  facilities  of  access  to  this  class  of  documents.1  With 
the  appearance  of  Matthew  Paris  upon  the  scene  in 
his  own  person  as  a  courtier,  traveller,  and  privileged 
historiographer,  a  great  change  is  witnessed.  Between 
the  years  1236  and  1253,  there  are  no  less  than 
twenty-three  documents,  mostly  of  the  greatest  historical 
importance,  entered  in  the  Red  Book  as  possessing 
more  or  less  of  fiscal  interest,  and  of  these,  all  but  one 
re-appear  in  the  historian’s  text.  In  one  instance, 
indeed,  the  latter  has  improved  upon  the  Exchequer 
version.  The  reference  given  by  Matthew  Paris  to 
the  Exchequer  custumal  for  a  further  description  of 
Queen  Eleanor’s  coronation  has  already  been  alluded 
to;  but  conversely,  while  the  Exchequer  scribe  was 
unable  to  attend  the  ceremony  of  the  royal  mar¬ 
riage  at  York  in  the  winter  of  1251  (and  so  has 
given  a  very  brief  memorandum  of  the  event),  the 
historian,  who  was  evidently  an  eye-witness  of  the 
scene,  gives  a  very  detailed  narrative.  Again,  the 
Exchequer  Register  has  an  authoritative  version  of 
the  Sententia  lata  of  1253,  which  the  historian  has 
evidently  copied  just  as  he  noticed  the  Exchequer 
memorandum  in  the  case  of  Eudes  Rigaud,  and  as  he 
would  assuredly  have  noticed  the  proceedings  in  the 
case  of  the  Bishop  of  Hereford  in  1227,  had  this  latter 
episode  fallen  within  the  period  of  his  own  observation. 
Indeed,  nothing  proves  more  strongly  the  existence  of 
a  sharp  line  of  demarkation  between  the  period  of 


1  The  learned  editors  of  Mon. 
Germ.,  xxviij.  15,  point  out  that 
Wendover  might  have  learned  news 
from  the  Court,  which  visited  St. 


Alban’s  in  1212,  1213,  and  at  other 
times  ;  hut  in  any  case  access  to 
Exchequer  Records  could  only  be 
obtained  at  Westminster  itself. 


PREFACE. 


XXX111 


compilation  and  that  of  original  research  in  the  works 
of  these  great  historians  of  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth 
centuries,  than  the  omission  by  Matthew  Paris  of  two 
documents  dated  less  than  a  year  before  the  commence¬ 
ment  of  his  new  task.  These  are  the  first  two  letters  in 
the  long  correspondence  connected  with  the  quarrel  of  the 
Emperor  Frederick  II.  with  the  Pope  entered  in  the  Red 
Book  and  otherwise  most  carefully  transcribed  by  the 
historian.  These  two  letters,  of  course,  should  have 
been  used  by  Wendover,  together  with  the  other  docu¬ 
ments  omitted  between  1202  and  1236,  hut  as  Wendover 
had  not  made  use  of  them,  his  successor  could  not 
or  would  not  correct  the  omission. 

It  may,  perhaps,  be  objected  to  the  foregoing  con¬ 
clusion,  that  there  is  no  proof  that  the  scribe  of  the 
Red  Book  did  not  derive  these  State  Papers  from  the 
history  itself.  There  is,  indeed,  no  proof  to  the  con¬ 
trary,  but  still  an  inherent  improbability.1  We  have 

alreadv  seen  from  Matthew  Paris’  own  statement,  that 

•>  ' 

he  derived  a  certain  portion  of  his  documentary  evidence 
from  an  Exchequer  Register,  which  is  not  the  existing 
Red  Book.  Moreover,  the  historian  seems  to  have 
obtained  more  than  the  twenty-three  documents  in¬ 
cluded  in  the  Red  Book  from  this  same  source  to  which 
the  Red  Book  scribe  was  equally  indebted— the 
collections  of  Alexander  de  Swereford,  based  upon 
and  continuing,  or  possibly  even  incorporating,  the 


1  The  connection  between  St.  [ 
Alban’s  and  the  Exchequer  was 
undoubtedly  a  very  close  one,  but 
this  must  be  interpreted  according 
to  Dr.  Liebermann’s  views  in  Mon. 
Germ.,  xxviij.  15,  82.  At  least  we 
know  that  there  was  at  St.  Alban’s 
no  early  and  authentic  collection  of 
State  Papers  before  Wendover  and 
Paris  began  to  w  rite,  while  of  the  j 


Gesta  Abbatum,  the  above  authority 
pointedly  remarks  that  “  per  tria 
“  saecula  fere  nihil  nisi  fabula  prae 
“  bent.”  Dr.  Luard,  however,  be¬ 
lieved  that  these  State  Papers 
“  were  no  doubt  sent  to  St.  Alban’s 
“  by  the  King  for  preservation,”  a 
view  which  seems  quite  untenable 
(Matt.  Paris,  III.  x.) 


63377. 


d 


XXXIV 


PREFACE. 


earlier  Exchequer  "Registers  which  were  inspired  by 
the  inimitable  science  of  Bishop  Roger  and  his  four 
great  descendants. 

Exclusi^  The  evidence  which  points  to  the  existence  of  a 

Records  by  systematic  arrangement  of  the  royal  archives  by  the 

the  later  Exchequer  officials  early  in  the  reign  of  Henry  II.,  is 
confirmed  by  the  instances,  above  mentioned,  of  the 
habitual  access  to  originals  or  enrolments  of  historical 
documents  preserved  here  by  successive  historians, 
while  the  undoubted  fact  of  the  immediate  and  ex¬ 
clusive  possession  of  the  most  important  public  and 
diplomatic  documents  by  the  department  from  the 
close  of  the  thirteenth  century  onwards,  may  be  held 
to  confirm  the  practice  of  an  antecedent  period.  It  is 
scarcely  reasonable  to  suppose  that  when,  in  July  1291, 
a  few  months  only  after  the  date  of  the  occurrence,  in 
accordance  with  the  King’s  mandate  that  the  record  of 
the  proceedings  touching  the  supremacy  question  before 
referred  to,  should  be  transmitted  to  the  Prior  of  Lewes 
for  entry  in  the  Chronicle  of  that  house  “  ad  perpetuam 
“  rei  memoriam,”  the  record  was  forthwith  despatched 
from  the  Exchequer,  under  writ  of  the  Treasurer,  that 
this  was  a  premature  or  isolated  practice.1  Indeed, 
although  a  little  known,  and,  perhaps,  an  unexpected 
fact,  it  was  the  King’s  Treasury  and  not  the  Chancery 
that  furnished  the  nucleus  of  the  modern  collection  of 
State  Papers ;  therefore,  from  the  close  of  the  thirteenth 
century,  we  should  no  longer  expect  to  find  the  text  of 
a  certain  class  of  public  instruments  entered  in  the 
Red  Book  in  the  pages  of  contemporary  chroniclers, 
who  no  longer  had  access  to  these  jealously  guarded 
archives,  and  this,  in  fact,  does  prove  to  be  the  case.2 


1  See  also  the  like  entry  of  these 
proceedings  in  the  Register  of 
Rievaulx  (MSS.  Inner  Temple, 
No.  508.) 

2  The  collection  of  Exchequer 


documents  contained  in  the  Cotton 
MS.,  Cleo.  A.  xvi.,  is  one  of  a  few 
possible  exceptions ;  but  this  at 
least  appears  to  have  been  origi¬ 
nally  an  official  compilation, 


Henceforth  the  Exchequer  Register  was  transcribed 
for  official  uses  until  it  once  more  became  available 
as  a  mine  of  information  to  the  antiquaries  of  the 
sixteenth  century. 


PREFACE. 


XXXV 


IV. 


About  the  time  when  Richard  Fitz-Nigel,  the  King’s  Hife  of 
Treasurer,  was  engaged  upon  his  famous  treatise,  there 
was  born  a  statesman  and  a  scholar  who  was  destined  ford, 
to  do  more  than  any  other  man  has  done  for  the  preserva¬ 
tion  of  the  mysteries  of  Exchequer  practice.  Alexander 
de  Swereford  is  known  to  have  flourished  during  the 
whole  of  the  reign  of  John  and  the  first  thirty  years 
of  Henry  III.  We  have  no  certain  information  re¬ 
specting  his  birth  and  parentage,  but  as  he  certainly 
died  in  the  year  1246,  still  executing  several  important 
offices,  we  may  reasonably  suppose  his  age  to  have 
been  under  70  years.  We  know,  still  further,  that 
he  was  employed  in  important  clerical  work  at  the 
Exchequer  early  in  the  reign  of  John,  and  we  must 
suppose  that  he  was  at  least  20  years  of  age  at  that 
sovereign’s  accession.  Perhaps,  therefore,  we  may 
conjecturally  assign  the  year  1177,  or  thereabouts,  as 
the  date  of  his  birth.  Alexander  de  Swereford  was 
almost  certainly  a  West-countryman,  and  two  counties 
may  be  considered  as  having  a  claim  to  the  honour  of 
his  birth-place.  The  surname  of  Swereford  is  said  to  be 
derived  from  the  parish  of  that  name,  about  six  miles 
distant  from  Chipping  Norton,  in  Oxfordshire.  Here  he  His  con- 
may  well  have  been  born,  since  at  this  date  such  local  “^10n 
cognomina  were  not  meaningless,  and  the  name  still  sur-  Oseney 
vived  in  the  neighbourhood  in  the  reign  of  Edward  I.1 
The  rich  monastery  of  Oseney  had  large  possessions  in 
these  parts,  and  possibly  young  Alexander  may  have  been 
indebted  to  the  good  Canons  for  his  education,  returning 

1  Botuli  Hundredorum ,  II.  726. 


d  2 


XXXVl 


PREFACE. 


later  to  his  native  village  to  assume  his  first  cure  as 
vicar,  and  afterwards  as  rector,  on  the  presentation 
of  the  Abbey.1  Swereford’s  connexion  with  Oseney 
appears,  at  one  period  of  his  life,  to  have  been  a  close 
one,  and  we  find  him  executing  a  deed  of  assignment 
to  the  Abbey  of  the  tithes  which  he  held  at  Chesterton.2 
The  church  of  Swereford,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln, 
archdeaconry  of  Oxford,  and  deanery  of  Norton,  was 
returned  for  Pope  Nicholas’  taxation  as  worth  61.  13s.  4 d. 
yearly.  It  appears  from  the  Oseney  Cartulary  that 
this  church  had  corne  recently  into  the  possession 
of  the  Abbey  by  the  bequest  of  John  Gray,  Bishop  of 
Norwich,  for  the  maintenance  of  the  canons  to  pray 
for  his  soul,  and  for  all  the  religious  dead ;  this  bequest 
being  confirmed  by  charter  of  Henry  de  Oylli,  who  had 
granted  the  same  to  the  Bishop,  and  whose  family  were 
notable  benefactors  of  the  Church  of  St.  Mary  of  Oseney.3 
Now,  as  the  Bishop  died  in  1214,  Alexander  de  Swereford 
could  not  have  been  presented  before  this  date.  He 
did  not  live  to  take  part  in  the  great  lawsuit  of  the 
Abbey  about  this  donation  in  1259,  or  even  in  the  similar 
case  of  the  lands  of  Wanborough  in  1250,  in  which  his 
old  colleagues  at  the  Exchequer  assisted  the  King  and 
Council.  It  is  very  likely,  however,  that  he  was  able 
to  render  the  Abbey  good  service  in  the  several  law¬ 
suits  which  arose  during  his  term  of  office  as  Baron  of 
the  Exchequer.4 


1  Cotton  MSS.,  Vitell.  E.  xv.,  the 
Oseney  Cartulary  which  was  un¬ 
fortunately  mutilated  by  the  Ash- 
burnham  House  fire.  The  Annals 
printed  in  the  Annales  Monastici 
(Rolls  Series),  from  the  Cotton 
MS.,  Tit.  A.  ix.,  proves  a  very 
indifferent  substitute.  A  Cartu¬ 
lary,  in  the  vernacular,  is  pre¬ 
served  in  the  Public  Record  Office 
amongst  the  Q.  R.  Miscellaneous 


Books,  No.  26,  and  is  of  the 
greatest  value. 

2  Cart.  Mon.  S.  Peter.,  Glouc. 
(Rolls),  I.  257. 

3  Q.  R.  Misc.  Bks.,  No.  26. 
There  had  been  much  litigation 
previously  concerning  this  manor. 
(Rot.  Cur.  Reg.,  6  Ric.  I.,  m.  3d 
and  17.  Ibid.,  1  John,  m.  1 7 d.) 

4  Q.  R.  Misc.  Bks.,  No.  26,  pas¬ 
sim,  and  p.  xliii.  infra. 


PREFACE. 


xxxvii 


On  the  other  hand  there  are  indications  of  another  or  with 
close  connection  with  the  city  of  Gloucester.  In  the  Glouccster’ 
cartulary  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter  tl.ere  is  men¬ 
tion  of  an  Emma  de  Swereford,  who  granted  two 
shillings  rent  “  in  vico  fabrorum  ”  to  the  Abbey  of 
Tewkesbury.1  This  Emma  was  possibly  his  mother, 
for  in  a  case  before  the  King’s  Court,  Alexander  son 
of  Emma  impleads  Matilda  de  Brom  for  lands  in  Glou¬ 
cestershire.2  We  also  learn  that  Swereford  resigned  his 
prebend  at  Lichfield  in  favour  of  his  nephew,  Simon 
of  Gloucester,  in  October  1234,  while  in  the  deed  of 
assignment  above  referred  to,  he  styles  himself  “  cle- 
“  votus  clericus  ”  of  St.  Peter’s  Church. 

Therefore  he  may  have  been  born  and  educated  at  and  with 
Gloucester,  or  more  probably  still  born  at  Gloucester,  and  Shl°1,shue 
educated,  or  at  least  professed  at  Oseney,  and  this 
theory  harmonizes  with  his  diplomatic  employment  in 
the  Marches,  and  with  his  preferment  to  the  Arch¬ 
deaconry  of  Salop.  Moreover  in  1222  he  was  appointed 
to  administer  the  estate  of  Robert  of  Gloucester,  some 
time  Dean  of  Chichester,  and  a  debtor  of  the  Crown, 
whose  will  was  proved  in  the  Diocese  of  Worcester.3 

Such  indications  as  can  be  gathered  from  the 
phonetic  forms  of  the  text  of  the  Red  Book  point 
to  a  south-country  extraction,  but  we  cannot  sup¬ 
pose  that  Swereford  or  his  scribe  was  responsible 
for  the  existing  form  of  English  fragments  in 
this  Register.4  It  is  a  curious  fact,  however,  that 
Alexander,  Archdeacon  of  Salisbury,  the  reputed 
compiler  of  the  Expositio  Vocabulorum,  in  this 
work  was,  as  Bishop  of  Lincoln,  also  closely  con¬ 
nected  with  Oseney,  and  this  connection  may  have 
led  to  the  confusion  which  has  prevailed  as  to  the 


1  Cart.  Mon.  S.  Peter,  Glouc. 

(Rolls),  I.  129. 

3  Rot.  Cur.  Reg.,  1  John,  m.  lid. 


3  Rot.  Fin.,  7  Hen.  III.,  m.  10. 

4  Red  Book,  fo.  30,  and  p.  Ixi. 


xxxviii 


PREFACE. 


Swereford 
at  the 
Receipt  of 
the  Ex¬ 
chequer. 


respective  claims  of  the  two  Alexanders  to  the  author¬ 
ship  of  the  Glossary.1  Swereford’s  connection  with 
Shropshire  seems  to  be  based  solely  on  his  archidia- 
conal  administration,  although  lie  may  be  supposed 
to  have  made  a  certain  residence  there,  and  there 
exists  a  grant  made  to  him  to  take  wood  in  the 
forest  of  Mount  Gilbert,  for  the  purpose  of  building  a 
grange.2 

Finally  it  may  be  observed  that  in  no  part  of  his 
compilation  does  he  show  a  local  familiarity  with 
any  of  the  above  counties,  and  indeed  the  greater  part 
of  his  life  must  have  been  passed,  as  will  presently 
appear,  in  residence  at  the  Exchequer  at  Westminster, 
or  at  St.  Paul’s,  and  in  the  management  of  his  eastern 
estates. 

In  his  preface  to  the  collection  of  Scutages,  Swereford 
states  that  he  was  constantly  engaged  at  the  Exchequer, 
under  William  of  Ely,  the  King’s  Treasurer,  and  ap¬ 
parently  in  the  capacity  of  his  clerk.3  At  first,  how¬ 
ever,  we  may  suppose  that  his  official  duties  were  of 
a  laborious  and  even  menial  nature.  It  would  appear 
that  he  was  originally  in  the  service  of  one  of  the 
Chamberlains,  for  in  the  first  year  of  John,  the  Sene¬ 
schal  of  Normandy,  received  from  the  King’s  treasury 
of  England  200  marks  by  the  hands  of  Elyas,  Ser¬ 
jeant  of  the  Treasury,  Alexander,  clerk  of  John  de 
Wika,  and  Robert,  son  of  Terric,  Serjeant  of  Robert 
Malduit.4  In  the  second  year,  William  of  Ely  was 
ordered  to  forward  to  the  King  at  Gloucester  200Z., 
which  was  received  by  the  hands  of  Alexander  the 


1  Q.  R.  Misc.  Bks.,  No.  26. 

2  Pat.  26,  Heu.  III.,  Pt.  II.,  m.  7. 

His  predecessor,  Archdeacon  Simon, 

6eems  to  have  occupied  certain 
houses  belonging  to  the  bishopric. 
(Close,  24  Hen.  III.,  m.  7.) 


3  P.  4.  See  Dialogus  de  Scac- 
cario,  I.  3,  et  passim,  for  the  tech 
nical  meaning  of  “  militare  ”  at  the 
Exchequer. 

4  Rot.  de  Oblatis,  1  John,  m. 
20  d. 


XXXIX 


clerk  and  two  others.1  Possibly  Swereford  (if  he 
may  be  identified  with  this  Alexander)  was  sent  on 
this  mission  owing  to  his  knowledge  of  the  country, 
but  he  seems  to  have  been  otherwise  employed  during 
the  next  few  years  in  “conducting”  drafts  of  treasure 
from  Westminster  or  Winchester  to  Normandy  for 
the  service  of  the  French  War.  In  the  2nd  year  he 
was  again  sent  with  treasure  to  Normandy,  and  the 
bailiff  of  Barbeflet  was  commanded  to  provide  for  the 
passage  of  himself  and  companions.2  In  the  4th  year 
he  twice  made  the  passage  by  the  same  route,  being 
described  in  one  roll  as  Alexander  the  clerk,  and  in 
the  other  as  Alexander  the  clerk  of  Winchester,  a 
curious  instance  of  the  long-continued  association  of 
the  Treasury  with  the  old  Saxon  and  Norman  capital.3 
In  the  next  year,  however,  on  the  occasion  of  his  last 
recorded  mission,  he  is  described  as  “  Alexander  cleri- 
“  cus  Thesaurarii  Londonise.”4 

It  was  during  this  long  period  of  subordinate  service 
in  the  Receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  which  must  have 
extended  over  more  than  thirty  years,5  that  Swere¬ 
ford  obtained  that  extensive  knowledge  of  the  Records 
of  the  Court,  which  he  turned  to  such  good  account 
in  his  compilation. 

If  the  character  of  the  hand-writing  and  internal 
evidence  justify  us  in  assigning  the  authorship  of  the 
small  Black  Book  of  the  Exchequer  to  Swereford,  and 
the  date  to  the  first  decade  of  the  thirteenth  century 
respectively,  and  if  we  can  admit  the  theory  which 
will  be  presently  submitted  in  respect  of  the  identi¬ 
fication  of  the  author’s  hand- writing  with  certain 
portions  of  the  Red  Book,  then  we  can  point  to  many 


1  Liberate,  1  John,  m.  2. 

2  Rot.  Norm.,  2  John,  m.  5. 

3  Rot.  Norm.,  4  John,  m.  10,  and 

m.  7. 

*  Ibid.,  5  John,  m.  2. 


5  He  describes  himself  in  1230  as 
still  “  resident  ”  at  the  Exchequer 
and  we  know  that  he  was  not  ap¬ 
pointed  Baron  until  four  years 
later. 


xl 


PREFACE. 


As  the 
King’s 
clerk. 


existing  specimens  of  his  official  handiwork,  and  par¬ 
ticularly  to  certain  portions  of  the  earliest  surviving 
Memoranda  Rolls.1  These  last,  however,  as  indicated 
by  the  treatise  of  Richard  Fitz-Nigel,2  seem  to  Lave 
been  more  or  less  informal  notes  of  current  business — 
being  in  fact,  as  they  are  headed  and  indorsed,  “  Ex- 
“  tracta  de  Memorandis,”  or  “  Memorialia,”  betraying 
this  informality  in  one  case  by  the  cynical  motto, 
indited  in  a  fair  official  hand — “  Alter  alterius  /tonera 
“  portate,  et  sic  adimplebitis  legem  Scaccarii 

In  the  year  1216  Swereford  seems  to  have  been 
acting  as  chaplain  to  the  Bishop  of  Coventry,  and 
he  obtained  leave  in  this  year  to  go  abroad  to  meet 
his  patron.3  In  the  next  reign,  however,  he  obtained 
more  active  and  important  employment,  being  des¬ 
patched  in  May  of  the  5th  year  of  Henry  III.  on  a 
diplomatic  mission  to  Lewelyn,  Prince  of  North  Wales.4 

In  the  year  1227  he  was  present  at  the  Council 
held  at  Westminster,  in  the  chapel  of  St.  John,  to 
decide  the  dispute  between  the  Bishop  of  Hereford 
and  the  citizens  of  that  town  whom  the  Bishop  had 
excommunicated  for  assessing  a  common  tallage  upon 
his  canons.  The  case  is  reported  in  the  famous  auto¬ 
graph  note  entered  in  the  Red  Book  amongst  the 
Precedents  for  clerkly  privileges,  in  which  the  writer 
describes  himself  as  Alexander,  Archdeacon  of  Salop, 
then  the  King’s  clerk.5  Swereford  must  have  been 
presented  to  the  Archdeaconry  near  the  beginning 
of  the  reign,  since  he  appears  in  the  5th  year  with 
that  title  as  witness  to  a  charter,6  being  already 
rector  of  Swereford.  In  the  12th  year  of  this  reign 
the  Archdeacon  was  sent  on  the  King’s  business  to 


1  L.  T.  R.  Misc.  Rolls,  Bdle.  5. 

1  Dialogus ,  II.  2. 

3  Hardy,  Catalogue,  III.  107.  It 

was  doubtless  through  this  connec¬ 

tion  that  he  was  presented  to  the 


prebend  of  Lichfield  before  referred 
to. 

4  Close  Roll,  5  Hen.  III.,  m.  11. 

6  Red  Book,  fo.  47  b. 

6  Cotton  MS.,  Tiber,  c.  5.,  fo.  156. 


PREFACE. 


xli 


the  Court  of  Rome,  in  company  with  William  de 
Cantilupo,  receiving  100Z.  for  their  expenses,1  of  which 
he  was  pardoned  the  sum  of  two  marks  not  accounted 
for.2  He  was  already  a  Canon  of  St.  Paul’s,3  holding  As 
the  somewhat  undesirable  prebend  of  the  consunipta  st. 
per  mare  in  Walton,  and  on  the  15th  January  1232 
he  was  appointed  Treasurer  of  that  church.4  This 
office  he  retained  until  his  death  in  1246,5  although 
it  has  been  generally  stated  that  he  resigned  it  about 
the  year  1240,  and  was  succeeded  by  Hugh  de 
Pateshulle,6  an  extraordinary  mistake,  which  is  clearly 
due  to  a  confusion  between  the  offices  of  Treasurer 
of  St.  Paul’s  and  of  the  Exchequer,  since  there 
actually  exists  a  writ  tested  by  Alexander,  Treasurer 
of  St.  Paul’s,  in  1240,  on  behalf  of  Hugh  de  Pateshulle, 
the  King’s  Treasurer.7 

We  have  several  interesting  notices  of  Swereford 
in  connection  with  the  Church  of  St.  Paul.  In  the 
year  1236  he  was  granted  full  and  free  administra¬ 
tion  of  that  tower  in  the  wall  of  the  city  of  London, 
which  is  next  to  Ludgate,  towards  the  North,  and 
he  was  to  erect  a  building  there.8 

This  concession  was  perhaps  connected  with  several 
deeds  of  the  period  relating  to  tenements  between  Ludgate 
and  Fleet  Bridge.9  The  Register  known  as  the  Liber 


1  Liberate,  12  Hen.  III.  Arch¬ 
er  ologia,  xxviij.  261. 

2  Pat.  Roll,  15  Hen.  III.,  m.  19. 
It  appears  however  from  this  entry 
that  his  companion  was  Chancellor 
of  St.  Paul’s ;  this  subsequent  trans¬ 
action  may  therefore  possibly  refer 
to  a  second  mission  in  or  before 
1230. 

3  His  name  appears  in  several 

deeds  as  a  witness  with  other  offi¬ 

cials  of  the  church  from  the  year 

1220  onwards.  In  Mr.  Maxwell 

Lyte’s  Report  on  the  MSS.  of  St. 


Paul’s,  Hist.  MSS.  Commn.  (1883), 
pp.  1  lb,  23a,  et  seq. 

4  Pat.  Roll,  16  Hen.  III.,  m.  9. 

5  Q.  R.  andL.  T.  R.  Memoranda, 
20  to  30  Hen.  III.  passim.  Liber 
Pilosus,  fo.  43  d. 

6  Le  Neve,  Fasti,  II.  352.  Hardy 
Catalogue. 

7  Q.  R.  Memor.,  24  Hen.  III., 
rot.  9  b. 

8  Pat.  Roll,  19  Hen.  III.,  m.  8. 

9  Hist.  MSS.  Commn.  (1883), 
Report  on  MSS.  of  St.  Paul’s,  Nos. 
296,  297,  1360. 


xlii 


PREFACE. 


Grants 
made  to 
him  by  the 
Crown. 


Pilosus  of  St.  Paul’s  makes  frequent  mention  of  his 
name  during  this  period  as  “  Magister  Alexander  de 
“  Suereford,”  or  as  “  Alexander  Thesaurarius,”  or 
“  Archidiaconus  Salopisbirise,”  for  the  most  part  as  a  wit¬ 
ness  in  his  official  capacity  of  several  deeds  executed  by 
or  in  favour  of  the  Church,  and  also,  as  will  be  pre¬ 
sently  seen,  in  connection  with  his  own  private  affairs 
and  benefactions. 

During  the  first  twenty  years  of  the  reign  of 
Henry  III.  Swereford  certainly  enjoyed  a  consider¬ 
able  share  of  the  royal  favour,  as  evidenced  by  several 
grants  made  to  him  during  this  period.  We  have 
no  knowledge  of  his  regular  occupation,  but  unless 
the  gap  that  exists  in  the  Red  Book  between  the 
years  1212  and  1230  is  accidental,  we  may  suppose 
that  he  was  more  frequently  to  be  found  about  the 
Court  than  at  the  Exchequer,  though  still  nominally 
resident  there.  In  the  12th  year  he  received  a  grant 
of  20  marks  annually  to  maintain  himself  in  the 
King’s  service  until  he  should  be  otherwise  provided 
for.1  In  the  15th  year  he  was  allowed  for  fuel, 
ten  oaks  in  Windsor  Forest,  which  were  intended, 
doubtless,  to  be  brought  by  water  to  London,2  and 
following  this,  in  the  16th  year,  he  obtained  a  grant 
of  the  custody  of  the  county  of  Berks  during 
pleasure.3  In  the  19th  year  he  was  allowed  to 
purchase  three  casks  of  wine  out  of  the  ship  of  Walter 
le  Fleming  at  London,  after  the  King  had  taken 
his  prise-wines  therefrom.4  In  the  16th  year  we 
find  Swereford  again  employed  in  a  diplomatic  mis¬ 
sion  to  Wales,  or  rather  to  the  Marches,  in  order  to 
settle  certain  border  disputes,  with  the  assistance  of 
the  King’s  officers  in  those  parts.5  In  the  18th  year 
he  received  a  commission  as  one  of  the  King’s  Justices 


’  Pat.  Roll,  12  Hen.  III.,  m.  7. 

2  Close  Roll,  15  Hen.  III.,  m.  10. 

3  Pat.  Roll,  16  Hen.  III.,  m.  7. 


4  Close  Roll,  19  Hen.  III.,  m.  16. 

5  Ibid.,  16  Hen.  III.,  m.  15  d. 


PREFACE. 


xliii 

to  hold  an  inquiry  respecting  the  prises  of  wine  in 
London,  taken  by  Robert  de  Passe!  ewe  and  Peter  de 
Rivall  as  pertaining  to  the  Chamberlainship  of  Lon¬ 
don,  and  the  Sheriffs  of  London  were  commanded  to 
make  proclamation  for  all  who  had  given  presents 
of  lands  or  tenements  on  that  account  to  certify  the 
said  Justices  concerning  the  same.1 

But  although  thus  comfortably  housed,  provisioned 
and  fuelled,  and  in  the  enjoyment  of  a  handsome 
salary,  together  with  several  dignified  and  lucrative 
employments,  there  was  still  further  promotion  in 
store  for  the  Treasurer  of  St.  Paul’s,  On  the  6th  July  Afst^a™n 
1234,  he  was  appointed  to  sit  as  Baron  at  the  chequer. 
Exchequer,2  and  on  the  21st  of  October  1234,  he 
received  a  grant  of  40  marks  yearly  until  the 
King  should  otherwise  provide  for  him.3  On  the 
21st  November  1234,  the  Treasurer  and  Chamber¬ 
lains  were  commanded  to  pay  40  marks  yearly  to 
him  as  long  as  he  should  sit  at  the  King’s  Exchequer.4 5 
By  the  same  patent  John  the  Frenchman  and  John 
Haunsel  were  also  appointed  Barons,  but  with  salaries 
of  30  marks  only. 

At  the  Exchequer  Swereford  was  essentially  in 
his  element,  and  the  records  of  the  Court  during  the 
next  twelve  year  bear  ample  witness  of  his  legal  in¬ 
dustry.3  In  his  new  office  he  was  able  to  smooth 
the  course  of  justice  for  more  than  one  old  friend 
or  colleague. 

On  the  7th  October  1234,  he  tested  a  writ  to  Some  cases 
compel  a  fraudulent  collector  to  appear  and  acquit  }ie  was  * 
the  Abbot  of  Oseney  of  monies  levied  from  his  lands.6  engaged. 
In  1241  he  decided  a  controversy  between  the  Canons 


1  Close  Roll,  18 Hen.  III.,  m.  13d. 

2  Ibid.,  18  Hen.  III.,  m.  16. 

3  Pat.  Roll,  18  Hen.  III.,  m.  2. 

4  Pat.  Roll,  19  Hen.  III.,  m.  18. 

5  Q.  R.  Memoranda  and  L.  T.  R. 


Memoranda,  Communia,  20-30 
Henry  III.  Teste  Alexandro  The¬ 
saurario  Sancti  Pauli,  passim. 

6  Q.  R.  Memor.  Mich.  Com.,  21 
Hen.  III. 


PREFACE. 


xliv 


of  St.  Bartholomew’s  and  a  local  land -owner  respect¬ 
ing  lands  in  the  prebend  of  Portpool.1  A  year  or  two 
later  he  ordered  the  Dean  and  Chapter  of  St.  Paul’s  to 
have  respite  for  a  forest  fine,  for  which  they  claimed  to 
be  acquitted.2  He  also  tested  a  writ  of  privilege  to 
stay  proceedings  by  the  Sheriff  of  Essex  against 
Hugh  de  Pateshulle,  the  Treasurer.3  He  was,  more¬ 
over,  in  a  position  to  assert  a  like  privilege  in  his 
own  case  since  the  same  Sheriff  was  ordered  to  bring 
before  the  Barons,  in  the  Octaves  of  Michaelmas 
1245,  the  bodies  of  Henry  le  Lechin  and  others 
named,  to  answer  -to  Alexander,  Treasurer  of  St.  Paul’s, 
for  that  they  had  thrown  down  his  dyke  in  Andebury, 
and  rooted  up  his  trees  there,  against  the  peace  of 
the  King,  as  it  is  said, — but  as  we  know,  from 
the  evidence  of  the  Records  of  this  and  the  next 
reigns,  as  a  protest  against  the  decay  of  that  Pax 
Regis  which  lawyers  and  clerks  had  once  loved  to 
exalt  as  a  defence  against  feudal  encroachments.4 
A  few  years  before  this  Swereford  had  repaired  on 
one  occasion,  as  the  Rolls  tell  us,  ad  loquendum  cum 
consilio  Regis,  about  a  knotty  point  of  law.6  Among 
the  more  remarkable  cases  with  which  he  was  con¬ 
cerned  was  that  of  the  parson  of  Bradfeud,  Norfolk, 
charged  with  a  grievous  assault,  apparently,  on  officials 
of  the  Exchequer.6 

In  the  27th  year  of  Henry  III.,  Swereford  appeared 
before  the  Exchequer  to  pray  for  relief  in  a  case  wherein 
he  alleged  himself  to  have  been  oppressed  by  his  feudal 
lord.  It  appears  from  his  complaint  that  he  held  one 
knight’s  fee  in  Bedfordshire,  concerning  the  possession 
of  which  a  plea  depended  in  the  King’s  Court  between 
Hubert  Earl  of  Kent  and  William  de  Beauchamp.  On 


1  Newcourt,  ltepertorium,  I.  103. 

2  Q.  R.  Memor.  Trin.  Com.,  26 

Hen.  III. 

3  Ibid.,  22  Hen.  III.,  Rot.  9b. 


4  Ibid.,  Trin.  Com.,  29  Hen.  III. 

6  Ibid.  Mich  Com.,  29  Hen.  III. 

6  Q.  R.  Memor.  Mich.  Com.,  29 
Hen.  III. 


PREFACE, 


xlv 


the  occasion  of  the  levy  of  a  scutage  for  the  Gascon 
war  of  the  previous  year,  the  earl  distrained  Swereford 
as  tenant  to  recover  the  scutage  to  which  the  lord  of 
the  fee  was  entitled  by  virtue  of  the  King’s  writ. 
Swereford,  however,  relied  on  the  terms  of  the  grant 
of  this  scutage  “  per  commune  consilium  Regni,”  namely, 
that  it  should  be  collected  by  the  Sheriff  and  not 
otherwise,  and  a  writ  was  accordingly  addressed,  being 
attested  by  the  prudent  archdeacon  himself,  to  the 
Sheriff  of  Bedfordshire,  enjoining  him  to  restore  the 
chattels  seized  by  the  Earl,  and  not  to  allow  the  scutage 
to  be  collected  by  any  other  than  himself.1 

At  some  date  between  1220  and  1230  we  find  Swere-  He  enjoys 
ford  recorded  as  the  tenant  with  W.  cle  Ralegh,  of  a  tinned*' 
knight’s  fee  in  Bix,  Oxfordshire,  held  of  the  Countess  favour  of 
of  Oxford.2  To  the  last  he  was  a  recipient  of  the  royal  tlK  Cl0'VUl 
bounty,  for  in  1243  the  King  granted  him  the  reversion 
of  any  living  in  his  gift  that  should  be  worth  100 
marks,3  and  in  the  next  year  he  was  pardoned  for 
certain  fines  which  he  had  not  accounted  for.4  He  also 
obtained  the  grant  of  a  certain  deodand  in  Shropshire, 
namely,  the  horse  from  which  Stephen  de  Staunton 
fell  and  was  killed,  the  coroners  being  ordered  to  dis- 
train  the  widow  to  deliver  possession  of  the  same.5 

He  was  also  still  occasionally  employed  by  the  Crown 
in  business  of  State.  Thus  he  was  one  of  the  Commis¬ 
sioners  appointed  in  1245  for  the  delicate  task  of  taking 
and  imprisoning  certain  workmen  of  the  Mint,  if  they 
thought  it  ought  to  be  done — the  Sheriffs  of  London  and 
the  Constable  of  the  Tower  having  taken  and  imprisoned 
the  same  contrary  to  the  liberties  of  the  King’s  Mint.6 


1  Q.  K.  Memor.  Mich.  Com.,  27 
Hen.  III. 

2  Testa ,  I.  446  and  471. 

3  Pat.  Roll,  27  Hen.  III.,  m.  5. 

4  Close  Roll,  28  Hen.  III.,  m.  11. 

5  Ibid.,  29  Hen,  III.,  m.  15, 


6  Close  Roll,  29  Hen.  III.,  m.  3d. 
He  was  also  actively  engaged  in 
superintending  the  returns  made  in 
the  several  inquisitions  erroneously 
known  as  the  Testa  de  Nevill,” 
during  this  period.  (Testa,  I.  281, 
et  passim .) 


xlvi 


PREFACE. 


Swere- 

ford’s 

private 

estates 


and  bene¬ 
factions. 


There  is  one  more  side  of  Swereford’s  life  which 
demands  our  attention.  It  has  been  already  noticed  that 
while  his  earlier  territorial  interests  were  connected  with 
the  West,  those  of  his  later  years,  owing  to  his  connec¬ 
tion  with  St.  Paul’s  and  a  certain  Exchequer  clique,  had 
shifted  to  the  Eastern  Counties.  Here  he  seems  to 
have  become  possessed  of  considerable  private  property 
in  Hertfordshire  and  Essex.  He  is  stated  in  a  con¬ 
temporary  chronicle  to  have  granted  “  whatever  he 
“  possessed  at  Tewin  ”  to  the  Canons  of  St.  Bartholomew, 
London,  and  this  was  apparently  sufficient  for  the 
endowment  of  four  canons  to  celebrate  divine  service 
for  his  soul  in  their  church.1  It  appears,  however, 
that  the  Prior  and  Canons  surrendered  the  same,  which 
comprised  lands  in  Tewin  and  the  advowson  of  the 
church  there,  before  his  death.2 

In  the  Liber  Pilosus  of  St.  Paul’s  several  folios  are 
devoted  to  a  particular  record  of  certain  deeds  and  legal 
proceedings  connected  with  the  acquisition  by  Swereford 
of  certain  lands  in  Fobbing  with  a  special  heading  and 
a  memorandum,  “  Nota  pro  cantaria  Alexandri  Swerford, 
“  Thesaurarii.”  This  entry  records  the  several  proceedings 
in  two  conveyances,  one  of  43s.  rent  from  a  marsh  in 
Fobbing,  and  the  other  of  3  marcates  in  the  manor 
of  Talworth,  Surrey.3  In  these  proceedings,  which 
extended  from  the  19th  to  the  28th  years  of  the  reign, 
Swereford  was  represented  by  his  colleague  William  de 
Haverhulle  as  his  attorney,  while  Hugh  de  Pateshulle, 
the  King’s  Treasurer,  repaid  an  earlier  obligation  by 
testing  the  writs  in  his  favour. 

Swereford’s  name  also  appears  as  witness  in  a  charter, 
which  was  probably  executed  after  Midsummer  1246, 
being  a  grant  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Melbury 


1  Aiinal.  Dunstapl.  (Rolls),  III. 
171. 


2  Hist.  MSS.  Commn.  (1883),  St. 
Paul’s,  No.  1452. 

3  Liber  Pilosus ,  fos,  42-44, 


PREFACE. 


xlvii 


to  the  Bishop  of*  London  charged  with  an  ancient  rent 
payable  at  the  Exchequer  where  this  deed  was  executed.1 
Another  deed  is  witnessed  by  him  in  the  28th  year, 
being  a  quit-claim  of  lands  in  Essex  to  William  de 
Haverhulle,  the  King’s  Treasurer.2 

From  the  above  notices  it  will  be  seen  that  Swereford  His  death 
was  engaged  in  the  settlement  of  his  affairs  some 
years  before  his  death.  We  have  good  reasons  for 
believing  that  he  literally  died  in  harness.  His  last 
appearance  as  a  Baron  of  the  Exchequer  was  on 
the  14th  July  1246.3  He  therefore  sat  throughout 
Trinity  Term,  but  sickened  probably  during  the 
long  vacation  and  died  soon  after  the  commence- 
ment  of  the  Michaelmas  sittings,4  or  according  to 
several  independent  authorities,  between  Michaelmas 
and  Christmas,  and  probably  on  St.  Frideswide’s 
Day,  19  October  1246.5  He  was  buried  before  the 
altar  of  St.  Chad,  in  the  Church  of  St.  Paul’s,  which 
he  had  built  himself  and  endowed  with  a  chantry 
of  one  priest  to  celebrate  daily  for  his  soul,  and  for 
the  souls  of  his  successors  in  office,  and  all  the  faith¬ 
ful  dead.6  The  account  given  in  the  St.  Paul’s  Register 


1  Ancient  Deeds,  A.  218. 

2  Ancient  Deeds,  A.  734.  See 
also  the  Burton  Cartulary,  fo.  9, 
for  another  deed  of  this  nature, 
and  the  case  heard  in  the  King’s 
Court  between  Alexander  de  Swe¬ 
reford  and  Humfrey  de  Bassing- 
burne,  and  Albreda,  his  mother, 
for  the  right  of  presentation  to  the 
chapel  of  Hoddesdon.  Coram  Eege, 
Roll.  Mich.,  26  Hen.  HI.,  m.  6. 

3  L.  T.  R.  Memor.  Trin.  Com., 
30  Hen.  III. 

4  In  one  of  the  Rolls  of  this  year 
there  appear  a  number  of  notes 

upon  the  business  of  the  Court,  to¬ 

gether  with  transcripts  of  royal 


writs,  which  may  possibly  be  in  his 
hand-writing. 

5  Annal.  Vtinstapl.,  III.  171. 
Vitell.,  E.  15,  fo.  198. 

6  Newcourt,  Repertorium ,  I.  103. 
Arclueologia,  lij.  169.  Le  Neve 
Fasti  quotes  from  the  Liber  A., 
fo.  10 ;  and  this  is  probably  the 
notice  in  the  Liber  Pilosus,  fo.  42, 
where  the  figures  are  in  Arabic, 
and  resemble  x  or  xj.  The  Edi¬ 
tor  is  indebted  to  Dr.  Sparrow 
Simpson’s  courtesy  in  giving  him 
facilities  for  inspecting  this  precious 
Register,  parts  of  which  must  have 
been  compiled  under  Swereford’s 
direction, 


xlviii 


PREFACE. 


and 

epitaph. 


An  obitu¬ 
ary  notice 
of  him. 


of  this  endowment  is  so  interesting  that  it  may  be 
transcribed  here  in  full : — 1 

Nota  cie  Gapellano  Alexandro  de  Swereford  Thesau¬ 
rario.  “  Coram  altari2  requiescit  corpus  Alexandri  de 
Swereford,  quondam  hujus  ecclesiae  Thesaurarii,  qui  in 
vita  sua  illud  altare  construxit  et  constituit  unum  sacer¬ 
dotem  imperpetuum  celebraturum  pro  anima  sua  et 
animabus  successorum  suorum  hujus  ecclesiae  the¬ 
saurariorum  et  omnium  fidelium  defunctorum.  Et 
assignavit  annuum  redditum  ad  sustentationem  dicti 
sacerdotis,  videlicet,  quinque  marcarum  et  trium  soli¬ 
dorum.  De  quo  quidem  redditu  sunt  accipiendi  43s. 
de  quodam  marisco  de  Fobbinges,  qui  fuit  Gilberti 
Mauduit,  et  duae  marcae  de  manerio  de  Thalewurtha  in 
Sureya  per  manum  Johannis  de  Planaz  et  haeredum 
suorum.  Et  praeterea  accipienda  est  una  marca  de 
eodem  manerio  per  manus  eorundem,  quae  debet  distribui 
inter  canonicos  residentes  et  clericos  chori  in  aniversario 
die  obitus  sui.  Decedente  vero  dicto  sacerdote,  con¬ 
stituitur  3  alius  per  thesaurarium  qui  pro  tempore  fuit.” 

Lastly,  it  is  pleasing  to  meet  with  a  touching  tribute 
to  the  worthy  Baron’s  memory  in  the  contemporary 
history  of  Matthew  Paris,  who  was  able  to  express 
himself  freely  on  this  subject,  on  the  strength  of  an 
acquaintance  which  has  been  alluded  to  elsewhere.4 

This  occurs  in  the  historian’s  obituary  for  the  year 
1246,  in  the  following  words: — “Item  Alexander  de 
“  Suereford,  thesaurarius  Sancti  Pauli,  Londoniarum,  qui 
“  in  ecclesia  Sancti  Pauli  honorifice  sepultus,  in  corporis 
u  elegantia,  faciei  venustate  et  multarum  scientiarum 
“  dotibus  similem  sibi  in  Anglia  non  reliquit.” 5  Truly 
the  like  of  him  was  not  left  in  England,  for  with 


1  Liber  Pilosvs,  fo.  43  d,  in  mar¬ 
gin. 

2  A  blank  in  MS. ;  according  to 

tradition  it  should  be  the  altar  of 

St,  Chad. 


3  Constihietur  in  MS.  In  Arch - 
aologia  52,  p.  169,  the  value  is 
returned  as  40s. 

4  pp.  xxx.  and  ixij. 

5  Hist.  Major,  IV.  587. 


PREFACE. 


xlix 


this  patient  scholar,  large-hearted  churchman,  and 
devoted  servant  of  the  Crown,  there  passed  away 
the  last  of  a  long  line  of  literate  clerks  reaching  back, 
through  an  unbroken  tradition  of  Exchequer  practice, 
to  the  opening  years  of  the  twelfth  century. 

The  above  sketch  is  a  mere  outline  of  the  materials 
which  may  exist  for  the  life  of  a  typical  Exchequer 
official  of  the  thirteenth  century,  whose  personality 
has  been  invested  with  a  peculiar  importance  through 
his  connection  with  a  famous  historical  record,  and 
whose  reputation  has  been  enhanced  by  the  repeated 
testimony  of  many  distinguished  scholars.1  But  as 
the  facts  connected  with  his  official  life  have  hitherto 
been  involved  in  much  obscurity,  so  it  still  remains 
to  be  seen  what  was  his  exact  share  in  the  compila¬ 
tion  of  the  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer. 


y. 

The  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer  is  a  very  thick  Descrip- 
quarto,  13|  inches  in  length  by  9^  inches  wide,  and  Exchequer 
inches  deep,  weighing  9f  pounds.  It  is  distinguished,  MS- 
like  other  Registers  of  the  Queen’s  Remembrancer’s 
Department,  by  the  over-hanging  flaps  of  the  soft 
leather  binding  with  which  the  older  binding  was 
covered,  according  to  tradition,  in  the  reign  of  Elizabeth, 
being  secured  at  the  sides  with  brass  studs.  The  origi¬ 
nal  boards,  bound  in  faded  red  leather,  may  still  be  seen 
beneath  this  ample  covering,  and  these  may  be  sup¬ 
posed  to  bear  date  not  later  than  the  reign  of 
Edward  III.,  when  the  volume  is  believed  to  have 
been  thoroughly  repaired.2 

The  parchment  folios  are  345  in  number,  of  which 
25  are  fly-leaves  at  the  beginning  and  end  of  the  book, 
and  most  of  them  are  yellow  and  highly  polished  through 
exposure  and  constant  use.  The  earlier  portion  of 

1  e.g.  Le  Neve,  Madox,  New-  I  2  Issue  Roll,  Mich.  44,  Edw.  III. 
court,  Hardy,  Liebermann. 

63377,  © 


1 


PREFACE. 


The  Har¬ 
grave  MS. 


the  MS.  is  written  in  double  columns  in  a  hand 
of  the  second  quarter  of  the  thirteenth  century,  and 
is  finely  rubricated.  The  later  additions,  from  the 
middle  of  the  thirteenth  century  onwards,  are  written 
for  the  most  part  on  the  whole  width  of  the  folios, 
and  are  not  rubricated. 

The  MS.  volume,1  catalogued  as  No.  313  of  the 
Hargrave  Collection  in  the  British  Museum,  is  a  folio 
bound  in  black  leather,  containing  a  transcript  of  the 
earlier  portion  of  the  Bed  Book  of  the  Exchequer, 
with  certain  Exchequer  matter  bound  in  with  it.  A 
comparison  of  the  two  MSS.  gives  us  the  following 
results: — 

The  whole  of  the  earlier  portion  of  the  Red  Book, 
beginning  at  fo.  16  with  the  “  Laws  of  Henry  I.” 
and  ending  at  fo.  233d.  with  the  “  Roll  of  Robert 
Mantel  ”  (with  the  exception  of  the  “  Scutages  ”  and 
certain  miscellaneous  Returns  and  Precedents  entered  on 
fo.  231  d.  et  seq.,  which  the  scribe  probably  found  a  diffi¬ 
culty  iu  reading,  and  for  which  he  left  space),  is  tran¬ 
scribed  here  in  a  hand  of  the  middle  of  the  thirteenth 
century. 

The  “  Scutages-”  have  not  been  transcribed,  or  more 
probably  the  transcript  has  been  lost,  its  place  being- 
supplied  by  a  transcript  in  a  clerical  hand  of  the 
end  of  Henry  III.’s  reign,  without  the  Preface  and 
on  different  parchment. 

A  quaternion  of  the  transcript  of  the  Barons’  Cer¬ 
tificates  is  also  missing,  namely,  for  the  whole  of 
Shropshire  (except  the  first  part  of  Fitz- Alan’s  fief) 
and  for  the  whole  of  Herefordshire  (except  the  last 
two  charters  and  part  of  Richard  de  Candos’s  fief). 

With  these  exceptions,  the  MS.  apparently  com¬ 
prises  every  entry  in  the  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer 


Neues  Archiv  der  Gesell.se/iaft, 
x.  594, 


1  This  MS.  was  described  some 
years  ago  by  Dr.  Liebermann  in 


PREFACE. 


Ii 


down  to  the  year  1251,  but  none  that  were  made  in 
and  subsequent  to  the  year  1253.  Thus  the  Sententia 
lata  appended  to  the  confirmation  of  Magna  Carta 
in  May  1253,  is  omitted,  as  likewise  is  Grosseteste’s 
letter  to  the  Pope  in  the  same  year.1 

The  whole  of  this  transcript  is  in  a  hand  which 
somewhat  resembles  that  of  the  earlier  portion  of 
the  Red  Book.  It  may  be  regarded  as  a  copy  made, 
not  from  the  Red  Book  itself,  but  probably  from 
the  same  exemplar,  and,  unlike  the  Exchequer  MS., 
completed  at  one  time,  the  several  entries  being 
made  without  any  break,  and  the  rubrication  and 
the  distinction  of  the  paragraphs  being  very  care¬ 
lessly  and  often  unintelligently  executed.2 

The  above  brief  analysis  of  the  Hargrave  MS.  will 
perhaps  serve  sufficiently  to  indicate  its  probable 
origin  and  present  value,  and  as  a  careful  examina¬ 
tion  failed  to  disclose  any  readings  or  variations  of 
interest,  but  rather  an  aggravation  of  the  worst  errors 
of  the  Exchequer  MS.,  it  has  not  been  thought  de¬ 
sirable  to  collate  this  MS.  with  the  Red  Book,  except 
for  the  purpose  of  restoring  certain  defaced  or  missing 
passages  in  the  latter,  or  of  identifying  certain  doubtful 
readings. 

Next  in  importance  to  the  Hargrave  MS.  is  the 
Cotton  MS.,  Cleo.  A.  xvi.,  which  seems  to  have  been 
either  a  transcript  from  the  Exchequer  MS.  or  an 
independent  compilation  of  Exchequer  Precedents.  It 
contains  parallel  MSS.  of  the  Dialogus  and  of  the 
Treatise  on  the  Mint  at  fo.  259  d.  of  the  MS. 

A  comparison  of  the  Table  of  Contents  of  the 
Liber  Custumarum,  or  Guildhall  Register  (now 


1  On  the  other  hand,  several  inter¬ 
esting  entries  are  preserved  in  this 
MS.  which  are  not  found  in  the  exist¬ 
ing  Red  Book,  but  which  probably 
once  existed  in  the  original  Regis¬ 
ter  of  the  Exchequer.  (See  Preface 
and  Appendix  to  Part  II.) 


2  The  difficulties  which  occur  in 
the  Inquisitions  of  Dorset  and 
Somerset,  are  made  still  greater  in 
this  transcript  which  usually  omits 
the  interesting  marginal  notes  in 
several  parts  of  the  Exchequer  MS. 

e  2 


The  Cotto¬ 
nian  MSS. 


The  Black 
Book  of 
the  Ex¬ 
chequer. 


lii  PREFACE. 

Claud.  D.  ii.),  with  that  appended  to  the  Preface  of 
this  volume,  will  show  that  if  not  derived  from  a 
common  source  as  far  as  the  historical  documents 
are  concerned,  they  were  at  least  compiled  on  the 
same  plan.  Some  further  account  of  the  MS.  origins 
of  the  Liber  Custumarum  will  be  given  in  the 
Preface  to  Part  III. 

Later  transcripts  of  the  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer, 
more  or  less  complete,  abound  in  various  Manuscript 
Collections  of  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries, 
the  best  known  being  the  Cotton  MS.,  Claudius  C.  iv., 
ar  d  an  Elizabethan  transcript  in  the  Public  Record 
Office.  None  of  these  transcripts  requires  any  special 
description. 

A  considerable  portion  of  the  contents  of  the  Red 
Book  of  the  Exchequer  is  preserved  in  a  still  earlier 
MS.,  known  as  the  Small  Black  Book  of  the  Ex¬ 
chequer.  This  is  a  small  folio,  the  ancient  black 
leather  binding  of  which  is  now  protected,  as  above 
mentioned,  by  a  modern  red  leather  cover.  The  charac¬ 
ter  of  the  hand,  which  is  the  same  throughout  the 
volume,  and  internal  evidence,  assign  the  date  of  its 
compilation  to  the  reign  of  John.1 

The  greater  part  of  its  contents  consists  of  a  text 
of  the  “  Barons’  Certificates,”  which  is  in  substance 
identical  with  the  Red  Book  text,  and  which  must 
be  regarded  as  the  earliest  existing,  if  not  the 
original  text,  of  a  compilation  which,  by  his  own 
statement,  was  the  work  of  Alexander  de  Swereford. 

The  remaining  documents  included  in  both  volumes 
are  the  “  Constitutio  Domus  Regis,”  the  “  Conventions 
with  Flanders,”  the  “Treaty  of  Westminster,”  1153, 
and  a  copy  of  the  “  Boulogne  Inquisition,”  entered 
in  the  Red  Book  under  the  13th  year  of  John. 


1  Older  antiquaries  ascribed  it,  j  Templars’  lands,  c.  1185,  to  the 
like  the  very  similar  Register  of  !  reign  of  Henry  II. 


PREFACE. 


liii 


The  obvious  theory  thal  the  MS.  of  the  Baron’s  Certi¬ 
ficates  in  the  Red  Book  is  merely  a  transcript  of  the  MS. 
known  as  the  Small  Black  Book  of  the  Exchequer 
includes  the  following  propositions : — 

1.  That  the  Red  Book  scribe  was  a  very  faithful 
and  consistent  copyist  of  the  the  MSS.  set  before  him. 

2.  That  many  instances  occur  in  which  the  scribe 
has  imitated  letters  or  words,  and  has  repeated  blanks 
and  other  omissions  in  his  exemplar. 

3.  That  he  has  incorporated  in  his  text  many 
passages  that  were  evidently  later  additions  in  the 
exemplar,  regardless  of  the  consequent  anachronisms. 

4.  That  this  faithful  method  of  transcription,  ex¬ 
tending  even  to  the  imitation  of  letters  and  words, 
and  the  incorporation  of  later  and  anachronistic 
additions,  applies  in  the  fullest  sense  to  this  text  of 
the  Carton. 

The  correctness  of  the  first  of  these  propositions  can 
easily  be  ascertained  by  a  general  examination  of  this 
portion  of  the  MS.  The  application  of  this  and  the 
remaining  propositions  to  the  present  case  can  best  be 
judged  by  the  following  instances.  More  than  two 
hundred  such  instances  have  been  collected,  but  it 
will  perhaps  be  sufficient  to  enumerate  only  a  few 
in  order  to  economize  a  very  limited  space. 

It  is  a  peculiarity  of  the  Black  Book  MS.,  that  the 
scribe’s  “  F  ”  at  times  exactly  resembles  an  “  R.”  Simi¬ 
larly,  it  may  easily  be  mistaken  for  a  “  K.”  Now  the 
scribe  of  the  Red  Book  writes  Raveirches  for  Faveir- 
ches,1  and  R.  de  Lisuris  for  F[ulcu]  de  Lisuris.2  He 
even  writes  Robertus  for  Folbertus .'3  The  “  D  ”  of 
the  Black  Book  is  remarkably  like  an  “  A.”  The 


1  P.  306. 

2  P.  333.  On  the  strength  of  this 

mis-reading,  Dugdale  has  invented 


a  Richard  de  Lisuris  as  the  tenant 
for  this  period. 

3  P.  347.  This  looks  as  though 
the  exemplar  had  “  Fobertut” 


Its  rela¬ 
tionship  to 
the  Red 
Book  : 
Points  of 
resem¬ 
blance. 


Date  of 
the  Black 
Book 
proved  by 
later  addi¬ 
tione. 


Ivi  PREFACE. 

Archbishop  of  Canterbury’s  knights.1  Moreover,  the 
treatment  of  the  rubrics  and  the  distinction  of  paragraphs 
in  the  Red  Book,  afford  evidence  of  an  independent 
construction,  quite  inconsistent  with  the  previous  esti¬ 
mate  of  the  method  of  the  scribe,  so  that  we  must 
suppose  either  that  the  marked  resemblance  between 
the  two  MSS.  is  purely  accidental,  or  that  there  exists 
some  other  and  hitherto  unsuspected  relationship  between 
them.  This  latter  theory  is  so  startling,  and  affects  the 
whole  question  of  the  composition  of  the  Red  Book  of 
the  Exchequer  and  kindred  Registers  so  intimately, 
that  it  will  be  necessary  to  consider  its  development  at 
some  length.  The  theory  in  question  may  be  stated 
briefly  as  follows  :  that  the  text  of  the  Baron’s  Charters 
in  the  Red  Book  was  transcribed,  not  from  the  Black 
Book  text,  but  from  another  MS.  by  the  same  hand, 
written  at  a  later  date,  and  embodying  the  later  addi¬ 
tions  posted  in  the  original. 

It  is  almost  certain  that  the  Black  Book  MS.  was 
written  during  the  early  part  of  the  reign  of  John.  The 
hand  is  distinctly  a  official  one  of  that  period,  and  we 
have  the  following  proofs  that  it  was  compiled  about  the 
seventh  year  of  the  reign  : — In  the  first  place,  the  several 
political  charters  which  immediately  follow  the  Baron’s 
Certificates,  can  all  be  dated  before  the  year  1206,  and 
these  are  followed,  after  an  interval  of  space,  by  a  few 
later  documents,  such  as  the  Proclamation  concerning 
William  de  Braose,  which  can  be  dated  1210.  This,  and 
especially  the  manucaption  which  follows  at  fo.  84,  has 
every  appearance  of  being  a  contemporary  entry.  Then 
with  another  slight  break,  and  in  a  still  later  hand, 
follows  the  text  of  the  Bologne  Inquisition,  apparently 
transcribed  in  1211.  In  the  next  place  we  have  the 
following  remarkable  evidence  from  the  Baron’s  Cer¬ 
tificates  themselves  : — In  the  charter  of  William  son  of 


1  P.  198. 


PREFACE.  lvii 

Richard,  an  entry  occurs,  as  a  later  addition,  to  the 
effect  that  William  Briwerre  holds  Chesterfield  by  the 
service  of  one  knight.1  The  grant  of  Chesterfield  was 
made  in  the  sixth  year  of  John,  and  therefore  it  follows 
that  the  MS.  in  which  this  addition  was  made  was 
written  in  or  before  that  year.2  In  another  addition,  at 
the  end  of  the  Bishop  of  Durham’s  charter,  Richard  de 
Scalis  is  mentioned  as  holding  lands  in  Husseberne,  which 
he  obtained  not  later  than  the  year  1207.3  In  the  last 
entry  of  the  Charters,  Theobald  son  of  Walter  is  given 
as  tenant.4  He  tvas  alive  in  1205, 5  but  was  dead 
apparently  in  1207;°  therefore,  as  this  entry  is  a  later 
addition,  the  date  should  be  between  these  years. 

The  next  circumstance  that  attracts  our  attention  is, 
that  the  additions  to  this  MS.  seem  to  have  been  marie, 
for  the  most  part,  between  the  years  1206  and  1212. 
For  example : — Baldwin  de  Betun,  Earl  of  Albemarle, 
is  mentioned  as  the  tenant  of  Liston,  co.  Bucks ;  he 
died  in  1212.  Nov/  the  scribe  of  the  Red  Book  is  not 
content  with  merely  copying  this  and  other  later 
additions  as  they  stand,  but  varies  them  by  allusions 
which,  it  is  insisted,  could  only  have  been  made  by  a 
contemporary.  For  example : — The  Earl  of  Albemarle 
here  referred  to  obtained  that  title  by  his  marriage 
with  Hawisia,  the  heiress  of  William  le  Gros.  He  died 
in  1212,  and  his  wife  and  her  son  successively  enjoyed 
the  title ;  but  there  was  a  possible  claimant  in  the 
person  of  Ranulf  de  Fston,  who  derived  from  a  sister 
of  the  countess,  and  whose  descendant  formally  advanced 
his  claim  to  the  Earldom  in  the  reign  of  Edward  I.7 
This  Ranulf  seems  to  have  lived  in  the  reigns  of 


1  P.  344. 

2  Rot.  Chart.,  6  John,  No.  85. 
Cart.  Antiq.,  A.  A.,  No.  20. 

3  P.  418. 

*  P.  445. 


5  Rot.  Pin.,  7  John,  m.  16. 

6  Ibid.,  9  John,  m.  11. 

7  Rot.  Pari.,  9  Edvv.  II.,  in.  9. 
Close  Roll,  6  Edw.  I.,  m.  7. 


Case  of  the 
barony  of 
Albemarle. 


Case  of  the 
Bishopric 
of  Chi¬ 
chester. 


Theory  of 
an  inter¬ 
mediate 
exemplar 
of  the  Red 
Book. 


lviii  PREFACE. 

Richard  I.  and  John,1  and  it  is  a  curious  fact  that  the 
scribe  of  the  Red  Book  on  more  than  one  occasion 
pointedly  omits  the  name  of  Baldwin,  and  once  actually 
substitutes  that  of  Ranulf.2  How,  it  may  be  asked,  is 
it  possible  that  a  scribe  who  wrote  in  1230  should 
have  been  aware  of  a  claim  which  may  have  been 
discussed  in  1212,  but  which  certainly  had  no  justi¬ 
fication  during  the  next  sixty  years  ? 

Again,  the  scribe  of  the  Red  Book,  in  the  Charter  of 
the  Bishop  of  Chichester,  gives  that  prelate’s  name  as 
Nicholas.3  The  Black  Book,  following  the  original 
Charter  (one  of  the  two  that  still  survive),  correctly 
writes  Hilarius.  It  is  scarcely  conceivable  that  a 
scribe,  writing  in  the  year  1230,  in  which  the  Pre¬ 
face  to  the  Scutages  is  dated,  so  mechanical  and  so 
ignorant  of  the  ordinary  chronology  of  the  reign  of 
John,  should  have  remembered  the  story  of  Nicholas  de 
Aquila  and  his  wrongs.  It  was  at  some  date  between 
the  years  1208  and  1213,  that  this  worthy  Dean  of 
Chichester  is  alleged  to  have  been  elected  as  Simon 
de  Wells’  successor,4  and  therefore  it  is  only  possible  to 
suppose  that  the  scribe  who  wrote  this  name,  gave, 
by  a  common  clerical  error,  that  of  the  contempo¬ 
rary  bishop-elect  instead  of  that  of  the  prelate  of 
1166. 

If,  therefore,  we  could  suppose,  in  the  first  place,  that 
another  MS.  of  the  Barons’  Charters  was  written  at  the 
close  of  the  reign  of  John  ;  and  secondly,  that  it  suffici¬ 
ently  resembled  the  earlier  text  to  account  for  the  simi¬ 
larities  and  palpable  imitations  which  have  been  noticed 
above,  we  might  readily  believe  that  this  MS.,  and  not 


1  Plac.  Coram  Reg. Mich.,  2  John, 
Rot.  8  and  15.  See  also  Rot.  Cur. 
Reg.,  10  Ric.  I.,  m.  3  d. 

2  P.  318. 


3  P.  198. 

4  Le  Neve,  Fasti,  I.  239,  Annal. 
Dunstapl.  (III.)  31.  Annal.  Oseney 
(iv.)  54. 


PREFACE. 


lix 


the  existing  Black  Book,  was  the  exemplar  used  by 
the  scribe  of  the  Red  Book  about  the  year  1230.1 

The  main  part  of  the  earlier  portion  of  the  Red 
Book  is  in  two  different  hands ;  both  these  have  been 
generally  ascribed  to  Swereford  himself,  chiefly  on  the 
ground  of  a  supposed  autograph  notice  in  each.  One  of 
these  occurs  in  the  Preface  to  the  Scutages,  which  are 
written  in  the  same  hand  as  the  Charters,  Inquisitions, 
and  other  portions  of  the  Feodary.2  The  second 
reference  occurs  in  a  note  indorsed  upon  the  Dialogus 
in  the  same  hand  as  the  Abstracts  of  the  Sheriffs’ 
Accounts,  and  the  curious  synopsis  of  the  Scutages  and 
Charters  3 ;  and  here,  too,  another  allusion  to  an  earlier 
compilation  by  Swereford  is  found.  In  the  first  place,  Swere- 
however,  it  should  be  observed,  that  if  the  notice  in  supposed 
the  Scutages  be  an  original  one,  that  contained  in  the  autograph 
outside  leaf  of  the  Dialogus  is  not  in  the  same  hand. 
Moreover,  there  is  nothing  to  show  that  it  was  worded 
by  Swereford  himself,  and  the  expression  “  tunc  clericus 
Regis,”  rather  tends  to  show  that  it  was  written 
by  another  hand.  This  view  is  confirmed  by  a  third 
notice  in  the  Synopsis  in  the  same  hand  as  the  last, 
to  the  effect  that  a  certain  total,  which  could  not  be 


1  It  may  be  of  interest  to  mention 
that  Mr.  J.  H.  Round  arrived  at 
a  very  similar  conclusion  after  a 
simultaneous  and  wholly  indepen¬ 
dent  examination  of  the  two  texts. 
His  opinion,  which  he  kindly  com¬ 
municated  to  the  present  editor,  is 
supported  with  much  learning,  and 
maybe  summarised  as  follows:  — 
That  the  MS.  from  which  the  ex¬ 
isting  Red  Book  was  derived  was 
also  the  exemplar  of  the  Black 
Book  text  of  the  Cartes ;  that  it 
was  in  the  form  of  a  roll  without 
rubrics  or  distinctions  of  para¬ 
graphs  ;  and  that  the  two  scribes 
treated  it  each  according  to  his  own 


judgment  and  knowledge,  a  fact 
which  will  account  for  the  remark¬ 
able  variations  which  are  evident 
in  the  rubrics  and  paragraphs.  It 
will  he  observed,  however,  that  this 
conclusion  affects  only  the  texts 
of  these  Barons’  Charters,  and  not 
the  view  of  the  Red  Book  at  large, 
as  a  transcript  from  an  earlier  Ex¬ 
chequer  Register,  which  has  been 
advanced  here. 

2  Fo.  47,  and  p.  3  of  this  edition. 

3  Fo.  46  d.  See  also  two  other 
personal  notes  (which  have  not 
hitherto  been  observed)  at  fos.  186 
and  232  of  the  MSS. 


lx 


PREFACE. 


reconciled  with  the  items  in  the  Pipe  Roll,  was  given 
on  the  authority  of  Alexander  the  Archdeacon ;  this 
occurs  on  the  last  page  of  the  Synopsis,  where  the  fees 
held  in  Cornwall  are  set  out  with  the  total  appended 
in  these  words,  Summa  horum  iiijxx  iiijor  milites  et 
dimidium  et  tertia  et  quarta,  per  Alexandrum  archi- 
diaconum}  Now  the  reference  to  this  abstract  can 
be  identified  with  the  return  of  Scutages  for  Cornwall 
in  the  18th  year  of  Henry  II.,  and  the  reason  for  this 
special  note  is  seen  to  be  the  discrepancy  between  the 
total  of  the  fees  enumerated  in  the  Synopsis  (which 
amount  to  81,  J-,  and  £),  and  that  of  the  exemplar  from 
which  the  scribe  of  the  Synopsis  was  copying.  This 
exemplar  was  not  the  Pipe  Roll  itself,  which  agrees 
with  the  Synopsis  in  every  particular,  neither  was  it 
the  Red  Book  text  of  the  Scutages,  in  which  the 
figures  indeed  are  as  usual  erroneous,  but  do  not  make 
84,  but  72;  therefore  it  is  obvious  that  some  other 
compilation  of  Alexander  the  A  rchdeacon  is  here  referred 
to  which  no  longer  exists.1 2 

The  Synopsis  affords  further  evidence  in  support  of 
this  view  from  the  general  character  of  the  text,  which 
differs  in  many  important  particulars  from  that  of  the 
earlier  portion  of  the  MS.3  Thus  we  find  under  this 
same  county,  Cornwall,  a  note  respecting  the  Knights’ 
Fees  of  Reginald  de  Valle  Torta  and  others  under  the 


1  Fo.  230. 

2  With  this  should  be  compared 
the  passage  at  fo.  144  of  the  MS. 

Willelmus  filius  Martini,  v  milites 
et  dimidium  ;  et  secundum  Librum 
x  milites  et  dimidium.  This  refer¬ 
ence,  however,  is  not  to  any  earlier 
list  in  the  MS.,  where  the  tenant 
figures  in  the  Synopsis  and  Scutages 
with  the  lower  assessment.  Here 
again,  therefore,  a  lost  Register 
(which  was  apparently  used  as  an 
exemplar)  is  referred  to,  for 


“  Liber  ”  in  this  sense  meant  a 
Register,  as  the  well  known  entries 
“  in  Libro  ”  for  the  Testa  de  Nevill 
prove. 

3  For  instance,  the  entries  re¬ 
specting  the  fees  of  Richard  de 
Reimes  and  William  de  Reimes 
(Essex,  14  Hen.  II.),  where  the 
Synopsis  states  correctly  the  facts 
which  are  totally  misrepresented  or 
omitted  in  the  Red  Book  text  of  the 
Charters  and  Scutages. 


PREFACE. 


lxi 


marginal  heading  “  Secundum  Cartas,”  as  follows  : — 

“  Reginaldns  de  Valle  Torta  lj  milites  secundum  quod 
“  Lucas  filius  Bernavdi  seneschallus  ejus  mandavit  per 
“  litteras  Baronibus  de  Scaccario  in  anno  vj  Regis 
“  Ricardi,  et  habet  Marescallus  litteras  illas.”  Similar 
entries  follow  for  Robert  de  Cardinan  and  Geoffrey  de 
Lacellis,  but  none  of  this  information  is  to  be  found 
either  in  the  Feodary  or  in  the  Pipe  Roll;  and  we  are 
left  to  suppose  that  it  was  derived  from  a  lost  Register 
of  which  the  Synopsis  was  an  independent  abridgement, 
and  the  Scutages  and  Baron’s  Charters  very  concise 
and  rather  inaccurate  copies. 

Finally,  we  have  the  evidence  afforded  by  the  obvious 
reproduction  in  the  Hargrave  MS.  of  the  peculiarities 
of  this  lost  exemplar,  for  although  this  transcript  very 
closely  resembles  the  texts  of  both  the  existing  Ex¬ 
chequer  MSS.,  a  careful  comparison  will  show  that  it 
was  not  copied  directly  from  either.1 

It  remains  to  be  seen  how  far  the  earlier  portion  of  Date  of  the 
the  Red  Book  may  be  regarded  as  a  transcript  made  about 
the  year  1  230.  In  the  first  place,  it  is  evident  that  the 
several  articles  or  treatises  in  this  portion  of  the  work 
were  originally  written  and  bound  up  as  distinct 
vo^mes.  The  text  of  the  Leges  Henrici  Primi,  if  it 
is  not  in  a  different  hand,  was  not  written  at  the  same 
date  as  the  Charters  and  Scutages  The  same  remarks 
apply  to  the  Dialogus,  the  Scutages,  Charters,  Inquisi¬ 
tions,  and  Serjeanties.  For  example,  the  Dialogus  was 
apparently  copied  before  1227,  for  a  report  of  the  pro¬ 
ceedings  of  the  Council  in  that  year  is  endorsed  upon  it 
in  another  but  a  contemporary  hand,  and  the  Charters 
also  were  probably  written  before  1230,  as  proved  by  the 


1  In  addition  to  the  variations 
noted  in  certain  tested  passages, 
the  Hargrave  MS.  contains  four 
important  documents  of  the  first 
half  of  the  13th  century  which  are 
not  found  in  the  Red  Book  at  all, 


but  which  must  apparently  have 
existed  in  the  exemplar,  from  which 
both  MSS.  were  directly  or  indi¬ 
rectly  derived.  {See  P.  lj  supra 
and  Preface  and  Appendix  to  Part 
II.) 


lxii 


PREFACE. 


Conclusion 
suggested 
by  this 
evidence. 


Coinci¬ 
dence  of 
dates. 


later  addition  of  the  Northamptonshire  fief  of  Walter  de 
Preston,  who  died  in  or  before  1230.1 2  Each  of  these  pieces 
formed,  it  is  suggested,  a  distinct  Rotulus  or  Libellus,  the 
terms  applied  to  them  by  Matthew  Paris  and  by  Swere- 
ford  himself.3  About  the  year  1230,  these  Libelli  were 
probably  bound  together.  At  the  same  time  the  Preface 
to  the  Scutages  was  written  on  a  blank  folio  preceding  the 
text,  and  the  Constitutio  Domus  Regis  was  also  inserted 
on  the  blank  folio  at  the  end  of  the  Leges ,  both  these 
pieces  having  been  written  at  one  time  and  crowded 
into  a  given  space. 

We  may  now  advance  to  the  following  definite  con¬ 
clusion,  that  in  or  about  the  year  1206,  Swereford  (then 
entering  as  we  have  seen  upon  a  course  of  more  respon¬ 
sible  and  purely  clerical  labour  at  the  Exchequer,  in  the 
capacity  of  clerk  to  William  of  Ely)  compiled  the 
existing  Black  Book  of  the  Exchequer  from  the  original 
certificates  in  the  manner  described  in  his  Preface  to 
the  Scutages.  Between  the  years  1206  and  1212,  he 
posted  ”  his  volume  from  time  to  time  with  those  notices 
of  contemporary  changes  of  tenure  which  have  proved 
such  a  fruitful  source  of  confusion  and  error,  and  in  or 
about  the  latter  year  he  commenced  a  new  work  on  a 
greater  scale,  which  was  the  custumal  known  to  Matthew 
Paris,  and  the  probable  exemplar  of  the  existing  Red 
Book  of  the  Exchequer.  In  the  latter  work  we  are  at 
once  struck  with  the  circumstance  that  several  of  the 
principal  collections  were  evidently  compiled  about  the 
year  1212.  This  has  been  already  referred  to  in  the 
case  of  the  Barons’  Charters,  and  it  will  be  found  that 


1  Rot.  Fin.,  15  Hen.  Ill,,  m.  9. 

2  See  p.  xxx.  One  more  piece 

of  evidence  may  be  introduced 
here  in  proof  of  the  assertion  that 
the  historical  portions  of  the  MS. 
do  not  represent  Swereford’s  ori¬ 
ginal  or  his  finished  work.  The 
following  note  occurs  in  the  Cotton 
MS.,  Nero  D.  I.,  of  Mathew  Paris’s 
History,  “  Secundum  assertionem 


“  magistri  Alexandri  de  Suereford 
“  — Ilex  OJf'a  habuit  sub  sua  di- 
“  tione  in  principio  sua  doniina- 
“  tionis  tantum  novem  provincias 
“  quas  Angli  Sires  appellant 
(Chron.  Major.,  vi.  519  n.).  We 
naturally  turn  to  the  list  of  English 
Shires  in  that  portion  of  the  MS. 
attributed  to  Swereford,  but  no  such 
statement  can  be  found  there, 


PREFACE. 


the  Inquisitions  also  conclude  abruptly  in  that  year,  as 
do  the  Scutages.  It  is  true  that  Swereford  refers  in 
his  preface  to  the  latter  collection,  as  a  work  under¬ 
taken  in  the  year  1230.  As,  however,  there  is  no 
proof  that  this  statement  is  in  the  author’s  own  hand, 
it  might  be  possible  that  the  current  date,  1230,  was 
given  to  this  later  edition  of  the  "Register  up  to  date 
after  an  interval  of  nearly  twenty  years. 

Unfortunately  it  would  seem  probable  that  we  have  Deficien- 
to  deplore  the  loss  of  several  important  pieces  of  the  existing6 
original  work,  for  a  close  inspection  of  the  MS.  shows  that  MS. 
a  considerable  number  of  folios,  and  even  some  quater¬ 
nions,  are  missing.  But  apart  from  these  losses,  it  is 
difficult  to  believe  that  Swereford’s  original  work  should 
have  stopped  short  in  the  year  1212,  to  be  continued  in 
a  desultory  fashion  after  the  year  1230,  and  that  the 
officbd  experiences  of  the  best  years  of  his  life  should 
have  remained  wholly  unrecorded,  except  by  the  report 
of  the  case  in  1227  before  referred  to.1  It  is  also  sigmi- 

o 

ficant  that  this  obvious  void  was  partially,  but  very 
imperfectly,  filled  by  a  lacer  scribe,  writing  apparently 
soon  after  his  death.  Moreover,  we  have  seen  that  cer¬ 
tain  documents  were  inspected  by  Matthew  Paris  during 
Swereford’s  life  in  an  Exchequer  Register  which  can 
scarcely  have  been  the  existing  Red  Book,  and  it  has 
also  been  seen  that  other  documents  were  entered  in 
the  latter  Resister  before  the  middle  of  the  reign  of 
Edward  III.  which  are  no  longer  found  there.  We  know 
further  that  in  one  case,  and  probably  in  others,  the 
missing  folios  have  been  to  some  extent  replaced  by 
additions  made  on  the  ily-leaves  and  blank  margins. 

These  later  additions,  being  from  the  end  of  the  thir¬ 
teenth  century  of  a  purely  official  nature,  were  continued 


1  It  is  highly  probable  that  we 
have  in  the  case  of  the  miscellane¬ 
ous  collections  entered  atfos.  184  d. 
-233  the  remains  of  one  of  Swere¬ 
ford’s  “  Parvi  Rotuli  ”  or  official 
Note-hooks,  for,  apart  from  external 


evidence,  the  date  of  compilation  is 
fixed  by  the  table  of  regnal  years 
ending  thus  “  Johannes,  xviij. 
annos  et.”  (See  P.  lxj  supra  and 
Preface  and  Appendix  to  Part  II.) 


Plan  of  this 
Edition. 


V 


lxiv  PREFACE. 

down  to  the  end  of  Edward  III.’s  reign,  when  the  volume 
was  probably  rebound.  Lastly,  we  know  that  between 
the  reign  of  Henry  VI.  and  that  of  Elizabeth  still  later 
additions  were  inserted  on  the  fly  leaves  at  the  begin¬ 
ning  and  end  of  the  book. 

O 

The  plan  of  the  present  Edition  will  be  easily  gathered 
from  an  inspection  of  the  following  Table  of  Contents  ; 
but  it  may  be  convenient  at  this  point  to  make  a  short 
statement  as  to  its  actual  scope.  The  work  is  divided 
into  three  Parts,  in  which  the  prefatory  matter  and  the 
Text  are  both  paged  continuously  throughout,  and  an 
Index  and  Glossary  to  the  whole  work  will  be  found  at 
the  end  of  Part  III.  For  a  detailed  explanation  of  the 
several  methods  employed  in  the  preparation  of  this 
Edition,  the  Reader  is  referred  to  the  conclusion  of  the 
Preface  to  Part  III.  With  reference  to  the  classifica¬ 
tion  of  this  Register,1  it  will  be  found  that  the  larger 
portion  of  the  Feodary  has  been  printed  in  Parts  I. 
and  II.  of  this  Edition,  whilst  some  pieces  have  been 
omitted  from  want  of  space,  and  also  because  the 
information  supplied  might  possibly  be  obtained  from 
other  sources.  At  the  same  time  the  texts  of  early 
Laws,  Charters,  anti  State  Papers,  with  other  historical 
matter  entered  in  the  original  Register,  have  been 
omitted,  most;  of  these  having  been  already  printed 
in  the  Foedera  and  other  standard  editions.2  This  dis¬ 
poses  of  all  the  “  original  matter  ”  in  the  Register, 
namely,  that  distinguished  by  Mr.  Hunter  from  the 
“  superinduced  matter,”  which  was  added  on  the  fly¬ 
leaves  at  the  beginning  and  end  of  the  book,  from  the 
time  of  Edward  I.,  and  which  has  been  printed,  with 
some  exceptions,  such  as  the  series  of  Ancient  Deeds, 
in  Part  III.  of  this  Edition  for  the  first  time. 


1  P-  vj. 

2  A  much  needed  revision  of  the 
existing  texts  will  be  a  feature  of 


the  great  work  upon  which  Dr. 
Liehennann  has  been  so  long  en¬ 
gaged. 


TABLE  OE  THE  CONTENTS 


OF  THE 

RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

i 

Inside 

of 

cover. 

A  table  of  references  to 
some  of  the  most  not¬ 
able  entries  in  this 
book  in  a  late  hand. 

— 

2 

Fly¬ 

leaf.1 

Form  of  writ  to  the 
mayor,  &e.  of  Bristol. 

The  same  for  the  city 
of  Exeter. 

The  same  to  the  con¬ 
stable  of  Dover  and 
warden  of  the  Cinque 
Ports,  and  to  the 
mayor,  &c.  of  Rye. 
lGth  cent.  Lat. 

‘ 

3 

Fly¬ 

leaf. 

“  De  Multuris  Episco¬ 
porum,”  being  memo¬ 
randa  of  the  delivery 
of  certain  chattels  for 
the  king’s  use  by 
the  executors  of  the 
uuder-mentioned  de¬ 
ceased  prelates  before 
the  barons  of  the  Ex¬ 
chequer  : — 

William,  Bishop  of 
Norwich,  16  Edw.  I. 

Q.R.  Memor., 
Mich.Com., 
16  &  17 
Edw.  I., 
rot.  1 . 

P.  1040-1042. 

1  This  and  the  next  folio  are  unnumbered,  and  in  the  nature  of  flyleaves.  They 
are  followed  by  a  blank  folio. 

63377.  f 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


lxvi 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

3— 

Fly- 

Henry  de  Branceston, 
Bishop  of  Salisbury, 

Q.R.  Memor., 

cont. 

leaf. 

Pasch.  Com. 

16  Edw.  I. 

15  and  16 

Edw.  I., 
rot.  5  d. 

[Stephen,]  Bishop  of 

[Q.R.  Mentor., 

Chichester,  17  Edw.  I. 

Trin.  Re¬ 
cord,  17 
Edw.  I., 
rot.  54.] 

Walter  de  Hasulohaghe, 

Q.R.  Memor., 

Bishop  of  Bath  and 

Hil.  Re- 

v 

Wells,  2  Edw.  II.1 

cord,  2 

Edw.  II., 
rot.  56  d. 

[William,]  Bishop  of 

Originalia,  25 

Winchester,  25  Edw. 

Edw.  III., 

III. 

B[oniface,]  Archbishop 

rot.  20. 

of  Canterbury,  55 
lien.  III. 

Richard  Clifford,  Bi- 

Q.R.  Memor., 

shop  of  London, 

Hil.  Re- 

9  Hen.  V. 

cord,  9 

Hen.  V., 
rot.  7. 

Robert,  Bishop  of  Chi- 

L.T.R.  Me- 

Chester,  36  Edw.  III. 

mor.,  Trin. 

16th  cent.  Lat. 

Record,  36 
Edw.  III., 
rot.  1  d. 

4 

i2 

The  oath  of  the  Mar- 

— 

First  Report  of  the 

shal  of  the  marshal- 

Committee  on  the 

sea  of  the  Exchequer. 

Public  Records 

17th  cent.  Engl. 

(1800),  pp.  233- 
237.3 

1  This  entry  is  repeated  below  in  an  abbreviated  formula,  after  the  notice  concerning 
Boniface,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  it  is  again  entered  at  fo.  211  d.  (No.  159). 

2  This  and  the  succeeding  13  folios  are  numbered  1  to  14  in  a  modern  hand. 

3  Most,  if  not  all,  of  these  oaths  appear  to  be  entered  in  the  Red  and  Black  Books 
of  the  Exchequer  at  Dublin.  A  few  of  the  English  versions  will  be  found  in  the 
Cotton  MSS.,  Vesp.  c.  14,  and  in  other  collections.  The  greater  part  of  the  English 
formula  appear  to  be  in  a  hand  of  Edward  VI.,  and  in  all  cases  where  the  invoca¬ 
tion  to  the  saints  should  occur,  it  is  omitted,  and  is  also  struck  out  where  it  has 
occurred  in  earlier  entries. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


lxvii 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

5 

The  oath  of  the  Under 
Ushers. 

17th  cent.  Engl. 

— 

First  Report, 
233-7. 

6 

The  Messengers’  oath. 
17th  cent.  Engl. 

Of.  Liber  Ni¬ 
ger  Scac- 
carii,fo.46. 

Ibid. 

7 

The  oath  of  the  Apprai¬ 
sers  of  the  Port  of 
London. 

17th  cent.  Engl. 

Ibid. 

8 

id. 

The  Examiner’s  oath. 
17th  cent.  Engl. 

f 

— 

Ibid. 

9 

The  oath  of  the  Chief 
Usher  of  the  Ex¬ 
chequer. 

17th  cent.  Engl. 

Cf.  Liber  Ni¬ 
ger  Scac- 
carii,  fos. 
85,  86. 

Ibid. 

10 

iid.1 

The  oath  of  the  Barons 
(original  attached). 
16th  cent.  Engl. 

Ibid. 

11 

ii  d.-iii 

Transcript  of  the  above, 
varying  the  invoca¬ 
tion  clause,  and  in¬ 
serting  the  supremacy 
clause,  afterwards 

cancelled.2 

16th  cent.  Engl. 

12 

iiid. 

The  oath  of  the  Clerk 
of  the  Pleas  in  the 
Exchequer. 

16th  cent.  Engl. 

First  Report, 
233-7. 

13 

The  oath  of  the  Deputy 
Chamberlain. 

16th  cent.  Engl. 

Cf.  Liber  Ni¬ 
ger  Scac- 
carii,  fo. 
12  b. 

Ibid. 

14 

iv 

The  oath  of  the  Foreign 
Apposer. 

16th  cent.  Engl. 

Ibid. 

1  Fo. 

ii  is  blank. 

2  Not  printed  in  the  Report. 

f  2 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


lxviii 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

15 

iv 

The  oath  of  the  Comp¬ 
troller  of  the  Great 
Roll. 

16th  cent.  Engl. 

— 

First  Report, 
233-7. 

16 

The  oath  of  the  Attor¬ 
neys  in  the  Office  of 
Pleas  in  the  Ex¬ 
chequer. 

16th  cent.  Engl. 

Ibid. 

17 

ivd. 

The  oath  of  the  Sur¬ 
veyor  -  general  of 

Crown  lands,  &c. 

16t,h  cent.  Engl. 

Ibid. 

18 

V1 

Bull  of  Boniface  VIII. 
to  the  Archbishops, 
Bishops,  Abbots,  and 
clergy  of  England  re¬ 
quiring  the  levy  of  a 
tenth  of  all  ecclesias¬ 
tical  property  during 
three  years  for  the  re¬ 
lief  of  the  Holy  Land. 

The  Lateran,  4  kal. 
Mar.  anno  7. 3 

14th  cent.  Lat. 

P.  1048. 

}  * 

19 

vd. 

The  same  to  Edward 
[I.],  King  of  England, 
granting  to  him  a  half 
of  the  tenth  to  be 
levied  within  E  ngland 
and  Ireland  during 
the  same  period. 

The  Lateran,  4  id. 
Mar.  anno  8.3 

14th  cent.  Lat. 

P.  1052. 

1  The  fly-leaves  of  the  original  .volume  seem  to  begin  here. 

2  Several  Bulls  of  nearly  the  same  elate  and  on  the  same  subject  are  printed  in 
the  Foedera ,  others  are  entered  in  the  Liber  A.,  fos.  1  to  28,  and  also  in  the  Q.R. 
Memoranda,  e.y.  Trin.  Communia,  8  Edw.  II.,  but  no  originals  oi  inrolments  of  these 
three  instruments  can  be  found;  however  cf.  Potthast,  Regesta  Font.  25,  131,  and 
Calendar  of  Papal  Registers,  Vol.  I.,  P.  599. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


lxix 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS 

Where  printed. 

20 

vi 

Bull  of  Clement  V. 
to  Edward,  King  of 
England,  confirming 
the  above  grant  of 
half  the  tenth  afore¬ 
said. 

Avignon,  7  kal. 
Jun.  anno  4.1 

14th  cent.  Lat. 

P.  1053. 

21 

viii  2 

The  oath  of  the  Re¬ 
membrancer  of  the 
Exchequer. 

16th  cent.  Engl. 

First  Report, 
233-7. 

22 

viii  d. 

The  oath  of  the  Trea¬ 
surer  of  the  King’s 
Exchequer. 

16th  cent.  Engl. 

Ibid,  216  and  233 

•  i 

23 

ix 

The  oath  of  the  Sub- 
Treasurer. 

3.6th  cent.  Engl. 

Ibid,  233-7. 

24 

The  oath  of  the  Audi¬ 
tors. 

16th  cent.  Engl. 

Ibid. 

25 

ixd. 

The  oath  of  the  In- 
grosser  of  the  Great 
Roll. 

16th  cent.  Engl. 

Ibid . 

• 

26 

X 

{rider) 

Oath  of  the  Mayors  (of 
London  and  Oxford), 
attached  here  appa¬ 
rently  instead  of  on 
fo.  xi,  where  it  is 
transcribed  into  this 
book.3 

14th  cent.  French. 

• 

1  See  note  on  previous  page. 

2  Fos.  vi  d.,  vii,  and  viii  are  biank. 

3  Not  printed  in  the  Report,  ef.  Liber  Albus  I.,  306. 


lxx  RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

27 

X 

Translation  of  the 
above  into  English. 

15th  cent. 

— 

First  Report, 
233-7. 

28 

xd. 

The  oath  of  the  Es- 
cheators. 

15th  cent.  Engl. 

1 

Ibid. 

29 

The  oath  of  the  Chan¬ 
cellor  of  the  King’s 
Exchequer. 

16th  cent.  Engl. 

MS.  Cott., 
Tit.  B.  IV., 
fo.  18  d. 

Ibid. 

30 

xi 

Oath  of  the  Lord  Mayor 
of  London.1 

15th  cent.  French, 

Liber  Albus  I., 
306. 

31 

The  oath  of  the  Cham¬ 
berlains.  Another 

copy  is  entered  on  fo. 
309  d.  See  No.  267. 
16th  cent.  Engl. 

First  Report, 
233-7. 

32 

xid. 

The  oath  of  the  Ba¬ 
rons.1 

15th  cent.  French. 

33 

The  oath  of  the  Chancel¬ 
lor  of  the  Exchequer. 
15th  cent.  French. 

First  Report, 
233-7. 

34 

• 

A  riming  couplet  in 
Latin.  15th  cent. 

— 

Report  (1837), 
172. 

35 

xii 

The  oath  of  the  King’s 
Council. 

14th  cent.  French. 

— 

First  Report, 
233-7. 

36 

xiid. 

The  oath  of  the  J  ustices. 
14th  cent.  French. 

— 

Ibid,  216  and  236. 

37 

The  oath  of  the  Mayors 
and  Bailiffs  of  cities 
and  boroughs  at  the 
Exchequer.1 

14th  cent.  French. 

. 

Liber  Albus  I., 
306. 

1  Not  in  the  Report. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


XXI 


No.  Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


.38 


39  xiii 


40 


xm 

{rider) 


41 


42 


xiii  d. 


Memorandum  of  the 
scale  of  fees  for  the 
portage  of  the  sum¬ 
monses  and  writs  of 
the  Exchequer. 


Memorandum  respect¬ 
ing  the  fine  of  the 
Abbot  of  Cropland 
to  recover  his  lands, 
whereof  he  had  been 
disseised,  because  he 
was  reported  to  have 
excommunicated  the 
king’s  serjeants. 

Memorandum  respect¬ 
ing  the  fine  of  Master 
Gferard  de  Benyton 
for  the  same  cause. 

14th  cent.  Lat. 

The  oath  of  the  Sheriff 
and  Escheator.  In 
the  body  of  the  docu¬ 
ment  it  is  described 
as  the  oath  of  the 
sheriffs  and  bailiffs. 

14th  cent.  French, 


A  transcript  of  the 
above. 

15th  cent.  French.1 


A  scale  of  diets  for 
accountants  in  the 
several  counties  of 
England  allowed  at 
the  Exchequer,  when 
it  is  at  Westminster. 


Pipe  Roll,  1 1 
John,  Norf. 
&  Sufif. 


Ibid. 


Rot.  Stat.  I., 
M.  34  d. 


Where  printed. 


P.  838. 


P.  822. 


P.  822. 


First  Report, 
233-7. 

Liber  Albus  I. 
30G  (with  con¬ 
siderable  varia¬ 
tions). 

Liber  Custuma- 
rum,  1.  295. 


P.  835. 


1  Not  in  the  Report. 


lxxii 


E ED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

43 

xiv 

The  same  for  the  same, 
when  the  Exchequer 
is  held  at  York. 

Edward  II.  Lat. 

Liber  Niger 
Scaccarii  I., 

fo.  17. 

P.  836. 

44 

xiv  d. 

A  scale  of  days  allowed 
the  sheriffs  for  pass¬ 
ing  their  accounts  at 
the  Exchequer. 

Edward  II.  Lat. 

P.  838. 

45 

Memorandum  that  the 
writ  to  the  treasurer 
and  barons  for  debts 
to  be  attermined  is 
enrolled. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

[Q.  R.  Me¬ 
mor.,  Mich. 
Communia, 
3  Edw.  II.1] 

P.  839. 

46 

Memorandum  that  the 
writ  to  the  same  re¬ 
specting  wardships 
and  marriages  in  the 
king’s  hand  is  like¬ 
wise  enrolled. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

[Q.  R.  Me¬ 
mor.,  Hil. 
Commun., 

3  Edw.  II.] 

P.  840. 

47 

Memorandum  that  the 
quintal  of  wax  con¬ 
tains  1121bs.,  accord¬ 
ing  to  an  entry  in 
the  Great  Roll. 

Edward  II.  Lat. 

Pipe  Roll, 
31  Edw.  I. 

“  Compo  - 
tus  de  No¬ 
va  Custu- 
ma.” 

P.  840. 

48 

3  2 

Charter  of  Henry  de 
Pynkenye,  by  which 
he  grants  to  Edward 
the  king  his  manor 
of  "Wedone  Pynkeny, 
co.  Northampton, 

with  the  advowson 
of  the  priory  in  the 

Close  Roll, 
29  Edw.  I. 
M.  2  d. 

1  Set  also  Q.  R.  Memor.,  Commun.  Trim,  13  Edw.  I. 

2  From  this  point  the  book  is  paged  throughout  in  a  hand  of  the  14th  century. 
The  dorse  of  the  preceding  folio  is  numbered  2  in  an  early  hand. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


Ixxiii 


No. 

I 

j  Folio. 

1 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

48- 

cont. 

said  town,  and  tlie 
service  of  his  free 
tenants  of  the  manors 
of  Wedone  and  Wap- 
penham,  and  the 
homage  and  service 
of  his  tenants  en¬ 
feoffed  in  the  said 
county  or  elsewhere.1 

Botheville,  4  Sept., 
29  Edw.  I. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

I 

1 

! 

49 

3d. 

Another  charter  of  the 
same  to  the  same  of 
the  manor  of  Wedone 
and  certain  knights’ 
fees  there  and  else¬ 
where  in  co.  North¬ 
ampton  and  in  other 
counties.  [Same  date.] 
Contemp.  Lat. 

Close  Roll, 
29  Edw.  I., 
M.  2  d. 

50 

Grant  by  William  de 
Cleidone  to  the  same 
king  of  his  watermill, 
&c.,  at  Oreford. 

Delivered  into  the 
Exchequer  22  Feb., 
34  Edw.  [I.]  2 

Contemp.  Lat. 

51 

4 

Grant  by  Peter  de  Ga- 
vaston,  Earl  of  Corn¬ 
wall,  to  the  king,  of 
his  manors  of  Crok- 
ham  and  Lechamp- 
stede,  co.  Berks. 

London,  19  May, 

1  Edw.  [II.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Close  Roll, 

1  Edw.  II., 
M.  5  d. 

1  The  substance  of  this  charter  is  also  recited  in  the  Close  Roll,  32  Edw.  I.,  M.  13  d. 
The  originals  of  this  and  many  of  the  charters  and  Bulls  which  follow  are  mentioned 
in  Bishop  Stapleton’s  Kalendar.  (Palgrave,  “  Ival.  and  Invent.,”  Vol.  I.) 

1  No  inrolment  of  this  charter  can  be  found. 


lxxiv 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


52 


53 


54 


4  d. 


Quit-claim  by  Philip 
Baiun,  of  London,  to 
the  king  of  40s.  rent 
arising  from  a  tene¬ 
ment  at  Le  Brokene 
Wharf,  London,  some¬ 
time  in  the  possession 
of  Roger  le  Bigot,  Earl 
of  Norfolk  and  Marshal 
of  England,  deceased. 

London,  5  May, 

2  Edw.  [II.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Memorandum  that  the 
writ  of  King  Henry 
III.  commanding  the 
barons  to  deliver  the 
Exchequer  measures 
and  weights  for  pub¬ 
lic  examination  is  en¬ 
rolled. 

Edw.  II.  Lat. 

Exchange2  between 
Bartholomew  deBade- 
lesmere  and  Margaret 
his  wife  and  Edward 
the  king  of  the  re¬ 
version  of  the  manors 
of  Heghtredbury,  Co- 
lerne,  and  Steurte,  co. 
Wilts,  in  return  for 
the  reversion  of  the 
castle  and  manor  of 
Chilham,  and  the 
manors  of  Redeling- 
welde,  Kyngeston, 
Hatfield,  Wliitstaple, 
and  lands  in  Dover, 
and  in  Chingles- 


Auct.  Deeds, 
A.  1875.1 


[L.  T.  R.  Me- 


mor. 


Com- 
mun.,  54 
Hen.  III.] 


P.  973. 


1  Cf.  Q.  R.  Memcr.,  Hil.  Record.,  2  Edw.  II.,  rot.  58. 

2  Cf.  Close  Roll,  3  Edw.  II.,  M.  'J  d.  Cf.  Pat.  Roll,  5  Edw.  II.,  M.  16. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


Ixxv 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

54  — 
cont. 

ford,  co.  Essex,  which 
Alexander  de  Balliol 
holds  by  the  courtesy 
of  England  of  the  in¬ 
heritance  of  his  late 
wife  Isabella,  and 
which  should  escheat 
to  the  king  by  reason 
of  the  felony  of  John, 
late  Earl  of  Asceles 
(Athol)  son  and  heir 
of  the  said  Isabella. 

London,  14  July, 

5  Edw.  [II.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 

. 

55 

5 

Memorandum  that  on 
Monday,  the  13th 
Nov.,  1312,  was  born 
the  eldest  son  of  Ed¬ 
ward  the  king  and 
Philippa  his  consort, 
and  was  named  Ed¬ 
ward. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

P.  1066. 

56 

Memorandum  that  the 
deputy  chamberlains 
may  make  no  charge 
for  searching  for  lost 
tallies,  for  examining 
or  renewing  them,  or 
for  making  transcripts 
of  chirographs,  or 
for  enrolling  writs, 
&c.  by  reason  of  the 
king’s  writ  to  that 
effect. 

Edw.  II.  Lat. 

Q.R.  Memor., 
Hil.  Com., 
7  Edw.  I., 
rot.  3. 

• 

P.  973. 

57 

5  d. 
and 
[6]. 

Memorandum  that  on 
the  21st  April,  32 
Edw.  I.,  Roger  le  By¬ 
god  produced  in  the 

“““ 

lxxvi 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


. 

No.  i  Folio. 


Description.  Parallel  MSS.  Where  printed. 


57— | 
cont.\ 


- 

Exchequer  a  charter  1 
of  King  Henry  III., 
dated  27  May,  40th 
year,  granting  to 
Hugh  le  Bygod,  father 
of  the  said  Roger,  the 
bailiwick  of  Haia  and 
forest  of  Scalleby  and 
lands  in  Levesham, 
Loketon,  Pikeryng, 
I  and  Newton,  which 
Osbert  son  of  Ralph 
;  de  Bolebek  had  sur¬ 
rendered  to  the  said 
king  in  his  Court  at 
Wetmisnster. 

Edw.  II.  Lat. 


58 


[6  d.] 


Remission  and  quit¬ 
claim  of  John  de  Bar 
of  1,000  marcates  of 
the  lands  of  the  king’s 
enemies  in  Scotland, 
granted  to  him  by 
letters  of  Privy  Seal 
in  consideration  of 
3,000  marks  to  be  re¬ 
ceived  from  the  So¬ 
ciety  of  the  Fri  sco- 
bald  i  out  of  the  Cus¬ 
tom  of  wools,  &c. 

London,  10  May, 
1306.2 

Contemp.  Lat. 


Close  Roll, 
34  Edw.  I., 
M.  13  d. 


59 


6 


Quit-claim  by  Thomas 
Wale  of  his  wood  co. 
Northampton  which 
is  between  the  trench 


Close  Roll, 
2  Edw.  II., 
M.  6  d. 


1  The  Charter  Roll  is  missing  for  this  year,  but  the  substance  of  this  Charter  is 
enrolled  in  the  Pipe  Roll,  31  Edw.  I.,  item  Ebor.  Cf.  Q.R.  Memor.,  Mich.,  52  lien.  III., 
and  Pat.  Roll,  32  Edw.  I.,  M.  3. 

2  Cf.  Q.R.  Memor.,  30  Edw.  I.,  M.  6.  This  charter  and  the  concluding  portion  of 
the  preceding  one  are  entered  on  an  unnumbered  folio  in  the  book  between  folios 
5  and  6,  and  they  are  succeeded  by  a  blank  folio. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


lxxvii 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

59— 

called  La  Bernete 

cont. 

and  the  king’s  forest 

of  Whittlewode,  with 

other  boundaries. 

London,  Wednes¬ 
day  in  the  feast  of  St. 
George,1  2  Edw.  [II.] 
Con  temp.  Lat. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


60 


Charter  of  John  de 
Butetour,  knight,  lord 
of  the  manor  of  Gose- 
felde,  co.  Essex,  grant¬ 
ing  to  the  king  and  his 
heirs  2s.  3d.  out  of  the 
said  manor, in  compen¬ 
sation  of  a  like  rent 
arising  from  a  certain 
place  in  Colchester  re¬ 
mitted  by  the  king 
to  the  warden  and 
friars  of  the  order  of 
Minorites  there. 

Westm.,  7  May, 
2  Edw.  [II.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 


Close  Roll, 
2  Edw.  II., 
M.  Gd. 


61 


Gd. 


Quit  claim  by  Peter  de 
Gaveston,  knight,  to 
the  king  of  the  county 
of  Gaura,  and  castles 
of  Talamon,  Tanta- 
lon,  and  Mauleon, 
and  other  lands  and 
tenements  in  Gascony 
granted  to  him  bv  the 
said  king. 

Staunford,  4  Aug., 
3  Edw.  [II.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 


Close  Roll, 
3  Edw.  II., 
M.  24  d. 


1  Sancti  Gregorii  in  Close  Roll. 


Ixxviii 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

62 

G  d.-7 

Quit-claim  by  the  same 
to  the  same  of  the 
castle,  manor,  and 
honour  of  Knares- 
burgh,  with  the  appur¬ 
tenances  which  the 
king  had  granted  him 
to  hold  for  term  of  life 
by  the  same  service 
as  was  formerly  ren¬ 
dered  by  Edmund, 
Earl  of  Cornwall. 

Staunford,  26  J uly, 

3  Edw.  II. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Close  Roll, 
3  Edw.  II., 
M.  24  d.,  in 
cedula. 

63 

7-8 

Quit-claim  by  the  same 
Peter,  and  Margaret, 
his  wife,  of  the  manor 
of  Burstwyk,  the 
castle  and  manor  of 
Skypton  in  Cravene, 
the  castles  and  ho¬ 
nours  of  the  High 
Peak  and  Cokermuth, 
the  castle  of  Cares- 
brok,  and  other  lands 
and  tenements  in  cos. 
York,  Derby,  Cum¬ 
berland,  Northamp¬ 
ton,  and  Southampton, 
granted  to  them  by 
the  king  in  exchange 
for  the  county  of 
Cornwall,  the  castle 
of  Lydeford,  the  free 
chace  of  Dartmoor, 
the  honour  of  Knares- 
burgh, the  honour  of 
Walingford,  the  city 
of  Chichester,  and 
many  other  honours, 
manors,  towns,  lands, 

Close  Roll, 
3  Edw.  II., 
M.  24  d.,  in 
cedula. 

i 

TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


lxxix 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

G3  — 
cont. 

and  tenements  in  di¬ 
vers  counties. 

Staunford,  5  Aug., 

3  Edw.  [II.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 

G4 

8 

Charter  of  Philip,  King 
of  Prance,  to  Edward, 
King  of  England, 
relinquishing,  under 
certain  conditions,  his 
appellant  jurisdiction 
in  the  province  of  Gas¬ 
cony  during  the  life 
of  the  latter. 

Paris,  June  1286. 

Edw.  II.  French. 

Liber.  B.  fo. 

4  b. 

P.  1055.1 

Go 

8  d. 

Bond  of  the  abbot  and 
convent  of  Hide, 
Winchester,  for  the 
indemnification  of  the 
crown  during  void- 
ance  of  the  abbey,  in 
respect  of  60  librates 
granted  by  the  said 
convent  to  Master 
Jordan  Morant. 

Hide,  9  June,  3 
Edw.  [II.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Close  Roll, 

3  Edw.  II., 
M.  2d. 

66 

Charter2  of  Robert  de 
Clifford  of  his  lands 
and  tenements  in 
Monmouth,  with  the 
town  and  wood  of 
Hodenak,  granted  to 
the  king  in  exchange 

1  In  the  Ftxdera  I.,  665,  incorrectly.  2  Cf.  Pat.  Roll,  4  Edw.  II.,  M.  20. 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


Ixxx 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


66— 

cont. 


for  the  castle  of 
Skipton  in  Cravene, 
and  100  librates  of 
land  of  the  king’s 
manor  there. 

London,  10  Aug., 
4  Edw.  [II.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 


67  9 


| 


Charter  of  Katherine 
de  Audeleye,  granting 
to  James  de  Perrers, 
lent.,  and  Ela  his 
wife,  her  daughter,  j 
the  castle  and  town 
of  Thlanandevery  in 
Wales,  with  the  com¬ 
motes  of  Hirnirn  and 
Pernet,  with  rever¬ 
sion  to  the  crown  in 
default  of  their  issue. 

Ledbury,  Monday 
before  the  feast  of  St. 
Nicholas,  6  Edw.  II.1 

Contemp.  Lat. 


68 


9  d. 


| 


I 


Fine  levied  before  the 
justices' of  the  Bench 
in  the  octaves  of 
the  Purification, 
5  Edw.  II.,  between 
John  de  Claveringg, 
pit.,  and  Stephen  de 
Tr afford,  deft.,  of  the 
manors  of  Werkworth 
and  Roubury,  co. 
Northumberland, with 
reversion  to  the  crown, 
after  the  death  of  the 
i  said  John. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


Feet  of 
Fines,  5 
Edw.  II., 
Northld.2 3 


t 


1  No  inrolnient  of  this  charter  can  be  found,  hut  the  original  is  referred  to  in 

Bishop  Stapleton’s  Kalendar  (fo.  198)  under  Wallia.  Cf.  Pet.,  6  Edw.  II.,  M  9. 

3  Cf.  Close  Roll,  6  Edw.  II.,  M.  11. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


lxxxi 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 

_ i. 


69 


Another  fine  between 
the  same  parties  of 
the  manors  of  New-, 
bourne  and  Corbrigg, 
in  the  above  county, 
with  like  reversion. 

Same  place  and  date. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


Feet  of 
Fines, 

5Edw.  II.,  | 
Northld. 


70 


10 


71 


Another  fine  between 
the  aforesaid  John, 
and  Hawisia  his  wife, 
and  the  aforesaid  Ste¬ 
phen,  of  the  manor 
of  Evre,  co.  Bucks, 
with  like  reversion. 

Same  place  and  date. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

The  king’s  writ  to  the 
deputy-treasurer  and 
barons  of  the  Ex¬ 
chequer  that  none 
shall  be  called  in 
question  respecting 
the  death  of  Peter 
de  Gavestone,  con¬ 
formably  with  a  sta¬ 
tute  made  in  Parlia-  j 
rnent. 

Westm.,  16  Oct., 

7  Edw.  IT. 

Contemp.  French. 


Feet  of 
Fines, 

5  Edw.  II., 
Bucks.* 1 


Q.R.Mcmor.,  i 
Mich.  Re¬ 
cord,  7  Edw. 
II.,  rot.  76. 


Stats.  of  the 
Realm,  I.  169.2 


72 


10  d. 


Letter  of  Philip,  king 
of  France,  testifying 
the  renunciation  of 
appeals  and  actions 
which  Amaneuus  de 
Lebreto,  knt.,  made 


Gascon  Roll, 
7  Edw.  II., 
M.  14. 


P.  1056. 


1  Cf.  Close  Roll,  6  Edw.  II.,  M.  11. 

1  From  the  writ  entered  on  the  Patent  Roll  addressed  to  the  sheriff  of  Devon. 
The  copy  in  this  Book,  which  is  addressed  to  the  Treasurer  and  Barons  of  the 
Exchequer,  has  not  been  collated. 

63877.  g 


lxxxii 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No.  I  Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


72— 

cont. 


7.3 


10  d.- 

11. 


to  the  king  of  Eng¬ 
land  in  his  presence 
Poissy,  2  July  1313. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Letter  of  the  same 
remitting  to  the  king 
of  England  and  his 
(late)  father  and  their 
ministers  and  officers 
all  forfeitures  of  lands 
or  pecuniary  fines, 
&c.,  which  they  may 
have  incurred  down 
to  the  present  date. 

Poissy,  2  July 
1313. 


Gascon  Roll, 
7  Edw.  II., 
M.  14. 


74  11  d. 


Contemp.  Lat. 

Inrolment  of  the  king’s 
writ  to  Gilbert  de 
Roubury  enjoining 
him  to  deliver  cer¬ 
tain  records  which 
relate  to  the  lands  of 
Isabella  de  Fortibus, 
sometime  Countess  of 
Devon,  in  the  Isle 
of  Wight  and  Christ¬ 
church,  co.  Southt., 
into  the  custody  of 
the  barons,  together 
with  a  note  of  the 
delivery  of  the  said 
records  in  accordance 
with  this  writ. 

Thunderle,  14  May, 
8  Edw.  [II.]  1 

Contemp.  Lat. 


Where  printed. 


P.  1058. 


P.  1014. 


1  The  form  of  this  entry  resembles  that  of  the  Exchequer  Memoranda,  but  the 
writ  in  question  is  not  found  there  or  in  the  Chancery  Rolls.  It  is  possible,  there¬ 
fore,  that  this  may  be  the  original  inrolment,  designed  to  serve  as  an  iutroduc- 
tiou  to  the  proceedings  entered  below,  as  it  does  not  occur  iu  the  Ifiac.  Pari, 
12  Edw.  JI, 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


lxxxiii 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

| 

Parallel  MSS. 

1 

Where  printed. 

75 

11  (1- 
13. 

Examinations  of  cer¬ 
tain  persons  as  to  the 
execution  of  the  char¬ 
ter  of  the  Countess  of 
Albemarle,  granting 
to  the  king  certain 
lands  therein  named, 
and  as  to  the  sur¬ 
render  of  the  same 
lands. 

[May],  8  Edw.  II. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Plac.  Park, 
12  Ed.  II. 

P.  1015. 1 

76 

13 

Charter  of  Richard  de 
Pyuelesdon  of  certain 
lands  and  tenements 
in  Wales  surrendered 
into  the  king’s  hands.2 

Westm.,  18  May, 

7  Edw.  [II.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Close  Roll, 

7  Edw.  II., 
M.  4  d. 

\  ‘ 

77 

Memorandum  that  the 
charters  of  several 
kings  of  England  of 
manors  and  lands 
granted  to  Robert  son 
of  Roger  and  other, 
the  ancestors  of  John 
de  Clavering  are  en¬ 
rolled. 

Edw.  II.  Lat. 

[Q.R.  Memor., 
Mich.  Re¬ 
cord^  Edw. 
II.] 

78 

13  b- 
14. 

Grant  by  Henry  the 
dean  and  the  chapter 
of  St.  Mary  of  Lin¬ 
coln,  in  consideration 
of  a  certain  conces¬ 
sion  to  the  said 
church,  of  an  estab¬ 
lishment  for  a  chap- 

1  Cf.  Cooper,  Records,  II.  476,  and  Cole,  Do  its.,  21. 

2  Cf.  Pat.  Roll,  7  Edw.  II.,  Pt.  2.,  M.  7. 


lxxxiv 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No.  I  Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS.  Where  printed. 


era 

/  o — 

cont. 


79 


14  d. 


80  14  d.- 
15. 


Liber  A.,  fo. 
237. 


lain  in  the  said  church, 
to  pray  for  the  present 
king,  Isabella  his  con¬ 
sort,  Edward  their 
son,  and  their  other 
children,  and  for  the 
sonls  of  Edward  the  j 
late  king,  and  Eleanor 
his  consort. 

Lincoln,  the  Vigil 
of  the  Purification, 
1315. 

Contemp.  Lat.1 

Charter  of  Isabella  de 
Fortibus,  sometime 
Countess  of  Albemarle 
and  Lady  of  the  Isle 
of  Wight,  whereby 
she  enfeoffs  King 
Edward  I.  of  the 
said  island,  together 
with  the  manors 
of  Christchurch,  co. 
Southampton,  and 
Lambhyeth,  co.  Sur¬ 
rey,  in  consideration 
of  the  sum  of  six 
thousand  marks. 

Stokwell,  near  Lamb¬ 
hyeth,  Monday  before 
the  feast  of  St.  Mar¬ 
tin,  1293. 

Edw.  II.  Lat. 


Quit-claim  by  the  same  Liber  A.,  fo. 
countess  of  the  ma-  237  d. 
nor  of  Honyton,  co. 

Devon. 

Same  place  and  date. 


P.  1020. 


P.  1023. 


1  No  original  or  inrolment  of  this  deed  can  be  found  for  the  date.  The  counter¬ 
part  might  be  preserved  in  the  Registrum  antiquissimum  or  some  other  cartulary  in 
the  possession  of  the  Dean  and  Chapter  of  Lincoln.  The  original  charter  is  referred 
to  in  Stapleton’s  Kalendar  (fo.  1H7).  with  tlje  marginal  note  “  Irrotulapir  in  Rilbeq 
Jjibro  Scaccafii.” 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


JXXXV 


No.  Folio,  i  Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


Acquittance  of  the  j  Liber  A.,  fo.  P.  1022. 
G,000  marks  speci-  j  237. 
fied  in  the  previous  | 
charter. 

Stokwell,  Wednes¬ 
day  before  the  feast 
of  St.  Martin,  1293. 

Edw.  II.  Lat. 


82 


83 


15  d. 


84  16- 

29  d. 


Memorandum  that  the 
charter  of  Alphonso, 
King  of  Castille,  &c., 
for  the  quit  -  claim 
made  to  King  Ed¬ 
ward  I.  and  his  heirs 
of  the  whole  of  Gas¬ 
cony,  sealed  with  a  I 
gold  seal,  is  placed 
in  the  inner  chamber 
next  the  Black  Hall 
in  the  Tower  of  Lon¬ 
don.  [1  Nov.  1254.]1 
Edw.  II.  Lat. 


P.  1054. 


Charter  of  John  de 
Warenne,  Earl  of  Sur¬ 
rey,  of  all  his  lands 
and  tenements  in  the 
counties  of  Surrey, 
Sussex,  York,  Lin¬ 
coln,  and  in  Wales, 
granted  to  the  king. 

Westminster, 
Thursday  after  the 
feast  of  SS.  Peter  and 
Paul.  9  Edw.  [II.] 
Contemp.  Lat. 


Close  Roll, 
9  Edw.  II., 
M.  2d. 


De  libertate  ecclesias  MS.  Harg.  Thorpe,  Anglo- 
totius  Angliae  obser-  No.  313,  Saxon  Laws  and 


1  The  charter  here  referred  to  is  the  oldest  of  the  “  Three  Golden  Leagues  ”  of  the 
Treasury.  The  original  is  now  preserved  amongst  the  Diplomatic  Documents  in 
the  Public  Record  Office.  It  is  printed  in  the  Fadera  I.,  310. 


lxxxvi 


It  ED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

84— 

vanda  leges  Henrici 

coni. 

primi  filii  Conques- 

toris. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 


85 


29  d.-  The  number  of  the  hides 
30  in  several  shires. 

Same  date.  Anglo- 
Sax.  and  Lat.2 


86 


30 


The  names  of  the  Saxon 
shires  under  the  West 
Saxon  law,  the  Dane¬ 
lagh,  and  the  Mercian 
law. 

Same  date.  Anglo- 
Sax. 


Parallel  MSS. 


13th  cent., 
fos.  6-15  a. 
MS.  Cotton 
Claud.  D. 


II, 

14th 

cent. 

MS. 

Corn. 

Christi, Can- 

tab. 

70, 

14th 

cent. 

MS. 

Oriel, 

Oxon,  46, 

14th 

cent.1 

MS. 

Harg. 

313, 

fo. 

15  a. 

MS. 

Cott. 

Claud.  D. 

II. 

MS.  Corp., 
Cantab.,  70 
MS.  Oriel, 
Oxon.,  4-6. 
MS.  Hail. 
3271. 


MS. 

Harg. 

313,  fo. 

15  ; 

a. 

MS. 

Cott. 

Claud.  D. 

II. 

MS. 

Corp. 

70. 

MS. 

Or.  46. 

MS. 

Jesus, 

Oxon,  29. 

Where  printed. 


Institutes,  215- 
274. 

Schmid,  Gesetze 
der  Angelsach- 
sen  (1858),  432- 
490. 


Gale,  Scriptores 
III.,  748,  792.3 
Spelman,  Glossar. 
“  Hide.” 

Earle, Saxon  Char¬ 
ters,  4 5 8. 4 
Kemble,  “  Saxons 
in  England,”  I. 

81. 

Birch,  Cart.  Sax. 
I,  414. 

Munimenta  Gild- 
hallse  II.,  626. 

Report  of  the  Com¬ 
missioners  on  the 
Public  Records 
(1837),  166. 
Morris,  Old  Eng¬ 
lish  Miscellany, 
145. 

Skene,  “  Chron.  of 
Piets,”  153. 
Monumenta  Gild- 
hallce  II.,  2,  624. 


1  And  numerous  later  transcripts,  as  Trim  Coll.,  Cantab.,  O.X.  20,  Bibl.  Publ. 
Cantab.  D.d.  vi.  38. 

2  For  an  excellent  description  of  the  MSS.  of  this  and  the  following  piece,  see 
Liebermann,  Leges  Anglorum,  Pp.  7-10. 

3  Two  texts  are  given  by  Gale  ;  one  from  Claud.  D.  II.,  the  other  from  the  Liber 
Rubeus  and  the  “  MS.  Cottonianus.” 

4  Reprinted  from  Birch  (Journ.  of  Frit.  Arch.  Assoc.)  (1884),  28. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


IXXXVll 


No.  i  Folio.  I  Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


8G— 1 
cont. 


MS.  Arun-  Cf.  Kemble, 
del,  220.  “  Saxons  in  Eng- 

MS.  Bibl.  land”  I.,  493. 
Publ.  Can-  i  Cf.  Gale  III.,748.1 
tab.,  F.f.  1 .  i 
Cf.  MS.  Phil¬ 
lips  (Chel¬ 
tenham), 

8078. 

Cf.  MSS. 

Cotton, 

Vesp.  A. 

18,  and 
Claud.  B.  7. 


87 


30-31 


Constitutio  Domus  Re¬ 
gis  ;  being  the  Estab¬ 
lishment  Book  of  the 
king’s  household  and 
chamber,  temp.  Hen.  I. 

Same  date.  Lat. 


Liber  Niger 
(Parvus) 
Scaccarii, 
13th  cent. 
MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
15  a  -  16  a. 
13th  cent. 


P.  807 .2 


88  31  d.- 
46  d. 


Dialogus  de  Scaccario. 
Same  date.  Lat.3 


Liber  Niger 
Scaccarii, 
13th  or 
14th  cent, 
MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos.  ; 
2-5  a,  and 
16  a -29  a, 
13th  cent. 
MS.  Cotton, 
Cleo.  A. 
XVI.,  13th- 
15th  cents. 


Madox,  Hist,  of 
Exchequer  (Ed. 
1769),  II.,  349- 
452. 


1  For  a  Latinised  form  of  this  list  cf.  A.  of  Beverley  (Hearne),  97 ;  Gervase  of 
Canterbury  (Rolls),  II.,  417  ;  Higden  (Rolls),  II.,  85  ;  Hen  of  Hunts.  (Rolls),  9  ; 
Bart.  Cotton  (Rolls),  355 ;  Sym.  of  Durham  II.,  393  ;  Broraton  (Twysden),  col. 
956;  Gale  III.,  560,  etc. 

2  Cf.  Hearne,  Liber  Niger,  341. 

3  Twenty-four  transcripts  of  this  treatise  have  been  identified  by  the  Editor, 
making  an  addition  of  8  MSS.  to  those  enumerated  in  Hardy’s  Catalogue,  but  they 
have  been  omitted  here,  as  the  Dialogus  is  not  included  in  the  scope  of  this  edition. 


lxxxviii 


11ED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUE R. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

89 

36  d. 

A  general  writ  reciting 

in  mar- 

the  tenor  of  a  passage 

gin. 

in  the  above  treatise 

Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


respecting  the  exemp¬ 
tion  of  the  officers  of 
the  Exchequer  from 
civil  or  ecclesiastical 
processes  during  the 
session  of  the  Ex¬ 
chequer. 

Imperf.  n.d.  Edw.  I. 

Lat. 


P.  823. 


90 


I 


Writ  to  the  Archdeacon 
of  Oxford  on  behalf 
of  William  de  Rowell, 
chamberlain  of  the 
Exchequer,  that  he 
be  not  drawn  away 
to  answer  the  plea  of 
Roger,  the  rector  of 
Whytefeud,  in  the 
said  Archdeacon’s 
court. 

Westm.,  15  Feb. 
[  1  Edw.  I.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 


P.  824. 


91 


37,  in 
mar¬ 
gin. 


I 


Writ  to  Alexander, 
Arch  bishop  of  York, 
requiring  him  not  to 
compel  the  personal 
residence  of  Laurence 
de  Alle[rthorpe],  one 
of  the  auditors  of  the 
Exchequer,  in  his 
benefice  of  Laxton, 
while  be  is  engaged 
in  tbe  king’s  service. 

Westm.  [4  May, 
49  Edw.  III.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 


P.  825. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


lxxxix 


No.  j  Folio. 
92 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Writ  to  Roger,  parson 
of  Whytefeud,  enjoin¬ 
ing  him  to  abstain 
from  drawing  Wil¬ 
liam  de  Rowell  into 
a  plea,  whereof  he  is  j 
exempt,  according  to  j 
the  ancient  custom  of 
the  Exchequer, during 
its  session. 

Westm.,  15  Feb., 

1  Edw.  [I.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 


93 


Writ 1  to  Nicholas 
Poynz,  enjoining  him 
not  to  compel  Adam 
de  Stratton  to  per¬ 
form  suit  of  court  in 
the  hundred,  while  he 
is  occupied  as  a  clerk 
at  the  Exchequer. 

Westm.,  15  Feb., 
1  Edw.  [I.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 


94 


37  d. 
in  mar¬ 
gin. 


Writ  to  Roger,  Bishop 
of  Coventry  and  Lich¬ 
field,  enjoining  him 
to  revoke  the  sen¬ 
tence  for  contumacy 
pronounced  against 
Ralph  de  Besages, 
rector  of  Waleton  and 
chamberlain  of  the 
Exchequer,  while  he 
is  engaged  in  the 
king’s  service,  ac¬ 
cording  to  the  ancient 
custom  of  the  Ex¬ 
chequer.  n.d. 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 


1  Cf.  Q.K.  Memoranda,  Mich.  Com.,  1  &  2  Edw.  I.  rot. 
rot.  4  d. 


Where  printed. 


P.  825. 


P.  826. 


P.  826. 


,  and  Ibid.  Hil.  Com., 


xc 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

F olio  i 

95 

38  in 

mar- 

gin. 

Description. 


Writto  [Oliver],  Bishop 
of  Lincoln,  enjoining 
him  not  to  compel  the 
personal  residence  of 
Adam  de  Stratton, 
chamberlain  of  the 
Exchequer,  in  his 
benefice,  according  to 
the  said  ancient  cus¬ 
tom  of  the  Exchequer, 
n.d.  Edw.  I.  Lat. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


P.  827. 


96 


38  d. 
in  mar¬ 
gin. 


I 


Writ  to  the  bailliffs  of 
Edmund,  Earl  of  Lei¬ 
cester,  for  the  honour 
of  Leicester  in  the 
county  of  Middlesex, 
enjoining  them  to  dis¬ 
pense  with  the  suit  of 
William,  bishop  of 
Bath  and  Wells,  in 
the  courts  of  the 
county  and  hundred 
during  his  residence 
at  the  Exchequer. 

Westm.,  27  June, 
21  Edw.  [I.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 


P.  828. 


39  in 

Writ  to  R[alph]  Bishop 

mar¬ 

of  Norwich,  enjoining 

gin. 

him  to  revoke  the  sen¬ 

tence  of  contumacy 
pronounced  against 

Robert  de  Walmesford, 
rector  of  St.  Mathew 

of  Ipswich,  and  a 
clerk  in  the  Exche¬ 

quer,  by  reason  of  the 
privilege  enjoyed  by 
the  said  Robert,  ac¬ 
cording  to  the  ancient 
custom  of  the  Exche¬ 

quer. 

P.  828. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


XC1 


No. 


97— 

cont. 


Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

Westm.,  8  Mart., 
19  Edw.  I. 

Con  temp.  Lat. 

98 


46  cl. 
in  mar¬ 
gin- 


Note  [by  Alexander  de 
Swereford]  of  the  pro¬ 
ceedings  before  the 
king  and  certain 
councillors,  in  the 
chapel  of  St.  John, 
at  Westminster,  on 
the  eve  of  St.  Mar¬ 
garet  1227,  in  the 
case  of  Hugh  Foliot, 
Bishop  of  Hereford, 
who  excommunicated 
divers  citizens  of 
Hereford  for  being 
concerned  in  levying 
a  certain  tallage.  Lat. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo.  29  a. 


Report  on  the 
Public  Records, 
1837,  p.  169. 
M’adox,  Hist,  of 
Exchequer  (Ed. 
1769)  II.,  334. 
P.  1010. 


99 


N  ote  respecting  the 
scale  of  payments  for 
the  portage  of  the 
summonses  of  the 
Exchequer. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 


P.  837. 


100 


47-82 


Notifications  of  Scu¬ 
tages  entered  in  the 
Pipe  Rolls,  2  Henry 
II.  to  13  John,  with 
an  explanatory  intro¬ 
duction  [by  Alex¬ 
ander  de  Swereford]. 

Lat. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
30-48. 
Pipe  Rolls. 
Chancellors’ 
Rolls. 


Pp.  3-185. 


101 


82  d. 


Scale  of  diets  at  the 
Exchequer  for  the 


1  Fo.  48  d.  is  blank. 


XCll 

RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 

No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

Z: 

several  counties  of 
England.  See  also 
Nos.  42-4. 

Edw.  1.  Lat. 

• 

102 

83- 

122 

Certifications  of  knights’ 
fees  in  the  time  of 
Henry  II.  [1166], 
made  by  the  prelates 
and  barons  in  their 
charters. 

13th  cent.  Lat.2 

Liber  Niger 
(Parvus) 
Scaccarii, 

13th  cent. 

M  S.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
55-77, 13th 
cent.3 

Pp.  186- 445. 1 

103 

‘  ' 

122  d. 

Writ  of  Richard  I.  to 
Hubert,  Archbishop 
of  Canterbury,  for  the 
holding  of  tourna¬ 
ments  in  England. 
22  Aug.  [6  Ric.  I.]  5 
13th  cent.  Lat. 

MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 

77  a. 

MS.  Cotton 
Claud.  C. 
IV. 

Feeder  a,  I.  65. 4 
Hoveden,  III.,  268 
(abridged) . 

104 

The  form  of  the  king’s 
peace  to  be  observed 
by  Tourneyers,  in 
conformity  with  the 
above  writ. 

Same  date.  Lat. 

MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 

77  a. 

MS.  Cotton. 
Claud.  C. 
4. 

105 

Bull  of  Pope  Gregory 
IX. to  Edmund,  Arch¬ 
bishop  of  Canterbury, 
for  due  visitation  of 
the  bishops  suffra- 

MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 

77  a. 

Foedera ,  I.  190. 

1  Cf  Hearne,  Liber  Niger ,  49-340. 

2  Single  copies  for  the  following  religious  houses  have  also  been  preserved  : — 
Abingdon,  Ramsey,  Peterborough,  Cerne.  Of  these  the  first  two  have  been  printed 
in  the  Rolls  Series,  and  the  third  by  the  Camden  Society.  The  Register  of  Cerne 
is  pieserved  in  Cambridge  University  Library. 

3  The  transcripts  used  by  Hearne  and  other  modern  copies  of  the  Exchequer  MSS. 
will  be  found  in  the  Bodleian  MSS.,  Dodsworth,  cxli.,  Rawl.  c.  434,  and  in  Harl.  95  ; 
Stowe,  860-2  ;  Add.  4787  ;  Cotton.,  Faust.  C.  II.,  Claud.  C.  IV. ;  S.  P.  Misc.  40. 

4  Printed  from  the  Elizabethan  transcript.  Claudius  C.  4. 

5  Cf.  R.  de  Diceto  II.,  194. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


XC111 


No.  Folio. 


Description. 


105- 

cont. 


106 


107 


gans.  [Lateran,  4  id. 
Apr.  anno  1.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 


123-  Notifications  of  the  ser- 
129  d.1  jeanties  in  the  several 
counties  of  England. 
13th  cent.  Lat. 


131  d. 


Charter  of  Henry  II. 
to  the  citizens  of 
London. 

Westm.  [1154-61]. 
13th  cent.  Lat. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


MS.  Harg.  Pp.  455-468. 
313,  fos.  I 
77  a-79  a.  1 
Q.R.  Misc.  i 
Bdle.  894  1 
(Orig.  Re-  | 
turns). 

Testa  de  Ne- 
vill,  pas¬ 


sim/ 


MS.  Harg. 

fo.  79  a. 

MS.  Cotton. 

Claud.  D.  2. 
MSS.  Gild- 
hall. (Li. Alb. 
andLi.Cust.) 
MSS. Cotton. 
Yesp.  D.  16. 
Nero  A.  6. 
Vesp.B.  15. 
MSS.  Corp. 

70,  476. 
MS.  Oriel  46. 
MSS.Sloane, 
84,  754. 
MS.  Harl. 
2058. 

Cod.  Twys- 
den. 

Cod.  Selden. 
MS.  Harg. 
153. 


Monumenta  Gild- 
hallce  I.,  130  (ab¬ 
stract)  II.  31. 
Birch,  Hist. Chart 
5. 


1  Fos.  127,  127  d  ,  130,  130  d.  and  131  are  blank. 

-  Later  transcripts  for  this  and  the  other  principal  pieces  composing  the  Feodary 
in  the  Bed  Book  are  preserved  in  MS.  Cotton.  Claud.  C.  4.  and  State  Papers 
Misc.  40. 


xciv 


RED  HOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


107- 

con/. 


108 


109 


no 


MS.  Soc.  An¬ 
ti  q.  Lond. 
105. 

Pat.  2  Edw. 
IV..  Pt.  5, 
M.  I.1 


131  d.  Memorandum  thatOdo, 
Archbishop  of  Rouen, 
came  before  the  king 
at  Westminster,  Sa¬ 
turday  the  morrow  of 
the  feast  of  St. George, 
33  Henry  III.,  and 
made  his  fealty,  &e. 
Contemp.  Lat. 
See  also  No.  114. 

Memorandum  of  a 
charter  dated  20  Jan., 
39  Henry  III.,  con¬ 
firming  the  ancient 
liberties  and  free  cus¬ 
toms  of  the  barons  of 
the  Exchequer. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

132-  Inquisitions  made  in 
149. 2  the  time  of  King  John 

throughout  the  whole 
of  England,  namely, 
in  the  12th  and  13th 
years  of  his  reign  in 
every  county,  of  the 
i  services  of  knights 
and  others  who  hold 
of  the  king  in  chief. 

13tli  cent.  Lat. 


Harg. 


fo. 


MS. 

313, 

77  a. 

Close  Roll, 
33  Hen. 
III.,  M.  10 


Pat.  Roll., 
39  Hen. 
III.,  M.  14. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
80-91. 

Q.R.  Misc. 
Bdle.  894 
(Orig.  Re¬ 
turns). 
Testa  de  Ne- 
xill, passim. 
Liber  Niger 
Scacc.  fo. 
84  d.  (par¬ 
tial  copy). 


P.  1065. 


P.  822. 


P[>.  469-574. 


1  Cf.  Liebermann,  Leges  Anglorum,  pp.  71  sqq.  Other  transcripts  have  been 
identified  by  the  Editor,  and  a  whole  series  of  confirmations  exists  amongst  the 
Public  Records  down  to  Charles  II. 

2  Fo.  143  d.  is  blank.  A  supplementary  list  relating  to  Essex  and  *ome  other 
counties  is  inserted  in  the  form  of  a  rider  at  fo.  133  d. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


xcv 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

Ill 

149  d. 

Memorandum  of  a  de¬ 
cision  by  the  King’s 
Justices  in  the  9th 
year  of  Henry  III., 
as  to  the  price  of  a 
goshawk  in  her  first 
plumage,  and  as  to 
the  price  of  one  that 
was  mewed. 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 

[L.T.R.  Me¬ 
mor.,  9  Hen. 
III.,  last 
roll  in  dor¬ 
so .]  1 

P.  840. 

112 

150  to 
159. 2 

Inquisitions  of  the 
Honours  at  any  time 
escheated,  made  in 
the  13th  year  of  King 
John,  [and]  of  the 
knights’  services  for 
the  same. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
91-96  a. 
Q.R.  .Mise. 
Bdle.  894 
(Orig.  Re¬ 
turns). 

Testa  de 

Nevill,  'pas¬ 
sim. 

Pp.  575-621. 

113 

160  to 
162. 

Normandy  :  Enfeof- 
ments  of  the  knights 
who  owe  military  ser¬ 
vices  to  the  Duke  of 
Normandy,  and  with 
how  many  knights 
each  one  is  bound  to 
render  service  to  him.3 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
98-99 

MS.  Vatican.4 
MSS.  Arch. 

Nat.  Paris. 
Reg.  JJ.  8. 5 
„  JJ.  7. 6 
„  JJ.  23. 7 
„  JJ.  9  b.8 

P.  624. 

Du  Chesne,  Scrip- 
tores,  p.  1,045. 

Ducarel,  Anglo- 
Norman  Antiqui¬ 
ties,  Appx.  II. 
(incorrectly). 

Bouquet,  XXIII., 
693-698. 

Dclisle,  Facsimile 
of  Register  A. 

1  This  entry  cannot  be  found  in  the  Roll,  which  is  considerably  mutilated. 

2  Fo.  159  d.  is  blank. 

3  There  are  also  abstracts  of  this  document  in  the  MSS.  of  the  College  of  Arms, 
and  Lincoln’s  Inn,  and  in  MS.  Harl.  7,022. 

4  Register  A  of  Delisle. 

5  Register  B  of  Delisle,  Anc.  Bibl.  Nat.  Cart.  172. 

6  Register  C  of  Delisle,  Anc.  Bibl.  Nat.  Cart.  172. 

7  Register  D  of  Delisle,  Anc.  Bibl.  Nat.  9852a. 

8  Apparently  the  Transcript  mentioned  by  Stapleton.  The  above  are  the  present 
official  references,  which  have  been  most  kindly  supplied  by  M.  Couderc,  of  the  MS. 
Department  of  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale. 


XCV1 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


113- 

cow^ 


114 


115 


160,  in 
margin. 


I 


162  d. 


Memorandum  thatOdo, 
archbishop  of  Rouen, 
rendered  fealty  to 
King  Henry  III.  (A 
copy  of  the  previous 
entry.  No.  108.) 

Conterap.  Lat. 

“  Carta  Regis  Willelmi 
Conquisitoris  de  qui¬ 
busdam  statutis,”  &c. 
The  Statutes  of  Wil¬ 
liam  the  Conqueror.1 
n.d.  13tli  cent.  Lat. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


D’Anisy,  Chartes 
du  Calvados  II., 
425. 


Public  Re¬ 
cord  Office 
Transcripts,! 
Series  II.,  I 
Vol.  140  b.  | 


Cf.  R.  de  Tori- 
gneio  (Rolls)  IV. 
349. 


I 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
99, 99  a. 
MS.  Cotton. 
Claud.  D.  II. 


Foedera ,  I.  1. 
Thorpe,  Anct. 

Laws,  p.  211. 
Schmid,  Gesetze 
der  Angelsach- 
sen,  p.  354. 


116 


163 


“  Carta  ejusdem  Regis 
Willelmi  de  appella¬ 
tis  pro  aliquo  male¬ 
ficio  Franco  vel  An- 
glico.”  William  I.’s 
Ordinance  for  the 
preservation  of  the 
peace  between  Eng¬ 
lish  and  French,  n.d. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 


i 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 
99  a. 

Text.  Roff. 
MS.  Holk- 
ham,  228. 
MS.  Cotton. 
Tit.  A.  xxvii. 
MS.  Reg.  11, 
B.  2. 

MS.  Cotton. 
Claud.  D. 
IL,  fo.  41. 
MS.  Gurney 
(Macro). 
Cod.  Brom- 
ton. 


Foedera ,  I.  2. 
Thorpe,  Anct. 

Laws,  p.  210. 
Schmid,  Gesetze 
der  Angelsach- 
sen,  p.  353. 

W.  Malmesbury 
(Rolls),  297. 


1  This  text  is  the  enlarged  and  spurious  version,  which  must  be  sharply  distin¬ 
guished  from  the  original  version  of  the  Textus  Iinffensis  and  other  12th  and  13th 
century  texts,  including  those  taken  out  of  the  Quadripartitus.  See  Liebermaun, 
Quadripartitus,  p.  145,  and  Leges  Anglorum,  p.  32, 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


XCVll 


No. 


Folio. 


Description 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


1 16- 

cow  t. 


MS.  Cotton. 
Vitell.  A. 
13,  Claud. 
C.  9. 

MS.  Reg.  13, 
A.  18. 


117 


163  d. 


“Carta  Regis  Henrici 
primi  filii  Regis  Wil- 
lielmi  de  libertatibus 
concessis  Anglis,  in 
sua  coronatione,  et 
habuit  quilibet  comi¬ 
tatus  Angliae  talem.” 
Henry  I.’s  Charter  of 
Liberties. 

Westm.  [1  Hen.  I.] 
13th  cent.  Lat. 
See  also  No.  84. 


i  MS.  Harg. 
j  313,  fos. 
99a- 100. 
Textus  Rof- 
fensis. 

Florence  of 
Worcester. 
Richard  of 
Hexham. 
Regi  strum 
Glascuense. 
Wendover. 
Matt.  Paris.1 
MS.Rawlin- 
son,  C.  641 . 
MS.  Cotton. 
Tit.  A.  xxvii. 
MS.  Gurney 
(Macro). 
MS.  Holk- 
ham,  228. 
Cod.  Brom 
ton.3 

MSS.  Harl. 

458  &  746.  i 
MS.  Corp., 
Cantabr.  70. 
MS.  Oriel, 
Oxon,  46. 
MS.  Cotton. 
Claud.  D. 
II.,  fo.  41. 


Stats.  of 
Realm,  I.  1. 


the 


1  This  and  the  preceding  MSS.  are  single  and  in  some  cases  local  copies.  They 
will  be  found  in  the  printed  editions. 

2  This  and  the  three  preceding  MSS.  are  derived  from  the  Quadripartitus. 

63377.  h 


xcviii 


No.  Folio. 

118  1(53  d. 


119  164 


120  164- 

164  d. 


121  164  d.- 
165  d. 


122  165  d.- 
166 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

“  Carta  ejusdem  de  mo¬ 
neta  falsa  et  cambia- 
toribus.” 

Westm.,  In  the  Na¬ 
tivity.  [1101-4]. 

13tli  cent.  Lat. 

MS.  Harg. 

313, fo.  100. 
MS.  Cotton. 
Claud.  D. 
II.,  fo.  41. 

Foedera,  I.  12. 
Monumenta  Gild- 
hallse,  II.  648. 

i 

“  Carta  ejusdem  ubi 
comitatus  teneri  de¬ 
bent,  et  ubi  placita 
de  divisis  terrarum.” 
Charter  of  Henry  I. 
for  the  better  holding 
of  courts. 

Reading  [1109-11.] 
13th  cent.  Lat. 

MS.  Harg. 

313,  fo.  100. 
MS.  Gurney 
(Macro). 
MS.  Holkham, 
228. 

MSS.  Cotton. 
Tit.A.xxvii.1 
Claud.  D. 
II.,  fo.  41. 

Foedera ,  I.  12. 
Monumenta  Gild- 
halite,  II.  641, 
XIIthReportHist. 
MSS.  Commn., 
ix.  119. 

“  Forma  concordias  in¬ 
ter  Regem  Stephanum 
et  Ducem  Henricum 
cartis  confirmatas.” 

Westm.,  1153. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
100-100  a. 
MS.  Gurney 
(Macro). 
MS.  Cotton 
Claud.  D. 
II.,  fo.  41.2 
Cod.  Brorn- 
ton. 

Foedera,  I.  18. 
XIIthReportHist. 
MSS.  Commn., 
Appx.  ix.,  p.219. 

Convention  between 

Henry  II.  and  Henry 
his  son  and  Theodoric, 
Count  of  Flanders, 
and  Philip,  son  of 
Theodoric.3 

Dover,  14  kal.  Apr. 
[1163.] 

MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
100  a-101. 
Liber  Niger 
ParvusScac- 
carii,  fos. 
13  b-20  b. 

Foedera,  I.  22. 
Hearne,  Liber  Ni¬ 
ger,  23. 

“Carta  recognitionis  ser¬ 
vitiorum  quae  Comes 

MS.  Harg. 

1  313, fo.  101. 

Foedera,  I.  23. 
Hearne,  p.  34. 

1  This  and  the  two  preceding  MSS.  are  derived  from  the  Quadripartitus, 
'l  Imperfect. 

3  The  original  heading  in  the  margin  is  illegible. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


XC1X 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

122- 

Flandrite  et  Castellani 

Liber  Niger 

cont. 

facere  debent  Regi 

parvus  Scac- 

Angliae.”  [Same  date.] 

carii,  fos. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

20  b— 21. 

123 

166- 

“  Carta  [Willelmi] 

MS.  Harg. 

166  d. 

Regis  Scotiae  de 

313,  fos. 

homagio  facto  Regi 

101-101  a. 

Anglite  de  terra  Sco- 

Great  Roll 

tiae  et  super  multis 

of  Scotland. 

aliis.”  [1175.] 1 

Liber  Niger 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

Parvus  Scac- 

1 

i 

carii,  fo.  7  d. 

124 

166  d. 

! 

i 

j  i 

| 

“  Carta  Regis  Ricardi 

MSS.  Harg. 

per  quam  adquietavit 

313,  fo. 

Regi  Scotiae  homa- 

101  a. 

gium  suum  et  castra 

Original  in 

expressa  contra  pri- 

Scotch  Do- 

ores  conventiones.” 

cuments. 

Canterbury  1  Ric.  I. 

Portfolio  I., 

[1189,  Dec.  5.] 

No.  19. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

125 

167- 

Letter  of  Herman  arch- 

MS.  Harg. 

168 

bishop  of  Constantino- 

313,  fo. 

pie  to  Pope  Gregory 

101  a. 

IX.,  concerning  the 

Vatican  MSS. 

Where  printed. 


Feeder  a,  I.  30. 
Calendar  of  Docts., 
Scotland,  I.  139. 
[Abstract.  Engl .] 
Hearn  e,  L.  N., 
p.  36. 

Benedict  Abbas,  I. 
96. 

Hoveden,  II.  80. 
Diceto,  I.  396. 
Walter  Covcntr., 
I.  248. 

Scotch  Docts.  and 
Records,  p.  63. 3 
Haddan  &  Stubbs, 
Councils,  II.  237. 
Feeder  a,  I,  50. 
Calendar  ofDocts., 
Scotland,  I.  196. 
[Abstract.  Engl. ] 
Benedict  Abbas,  II. 
102. 

Hoveden,  [II.  25. 3 
Walter  Coventr., 
I.  385. 

Matt. Paris.  Cliron. 

Major,  III.  448. 
Matt.  Paris.  Hist. 
Minor,  II.  296. 


1  Later  transcripts  of  this  charter  exist  in  Cotton  MSS.  Cal.  B.  5,  Claud.  C.  4, 
Tit.  F.  13,  and  Ashmol.  No.  789. 

-  In  this  text,  printed  by  Sir  Francis  Falgrave,  the  versions  preserved  in  the 
Registers  of  Burton,  Croyland,  and  Bridlington,  are  given  with  some  other  notices. 
The  extract  from  the  “  Burton  Chronicle,”  however,  is  not  found  in  the  only  surviv¬ 
ing  MS.  (Cotton  Vesp.  E.  iii.)  of  the  “  Annals  of  Burton,”  in  which  there  is  no 
original  matter  before  the  beginning  of  the  !  3th  century. 

3  Diceto  (II.,  72)  also  knew  this  charter,  though  he  does  not  give  the  text. 
There  is  also  a  notice  in  Fordun,  p.  725,  and  a  later  transcript  in  the  Cotton  MS 
Tit.  F.  13. 


c 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

125- 

relations  of  the  Greek 

cont. 

and  Latin  churches. 
[1232.] 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

126 

168- 

The  same  to  the  Roman 

169 

cardinals  on  the  same 
subject.  [1232.] 

13  th  cent.  Lat. 

127 

169- 

Letter  of  Pope  Gregory 

170 

IX.  in  answer  to  the 

above. 

Rieti  [7  kal.  Aug.] 
anno  6  [1232]. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 


Parallel  MSS.  Where  printed. 


Mansi,  Conci/. 
XXII.  47. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
102-102  a. 


Matt.Paris.  Chron. 

Major ,  III.  455. 
Matt.  Paris.  Hist. 
Minor,  II.  300. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
102a-103a. 


Matt.Paris.  Chron. 

Major ,  III.  460. 
Matt.  Paris.  Hist. 

Minor,  II.  303. 
Mansi,  Concil. 

XXIII.  55. 
Potthast,  Regesta 
Pont.  8981. 


128 


129 


130 


170-  The  same  to  the  same 
1  70  (1.  in  further  answer  to 
the  above. 

Lateran,  16  kal. 
Jun.  anno  7  [1233]. 
13th  cent.  Lat. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 
103  a. 


Matt.Paris.  Chron. 

Major ,  III.  46G. 
Mansi,  Concil. 

XXIII.  59. 
Potthast,  Regesta 
Pont.  9198. 


17 1  Letter  of  the  Emperor 
Frederic  II.  to 
[Louis  IX.]  King  of 
France,  announcing 
his  intended  marriage 
with  the  sister  of  the 
King  of  England. 

Fano,  25  Apr.,  the 
!  8th  year  of  the  In¬ 
diction  [1235]. 

13  th  cent.  Lat. 

Bull  of  Pope  Gregory 
IX.  to  the  King  of 
France,  on  the  sub- 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
103  a-104. 


Huillard-Breholles, 
Hist.  Dipl.,  IV. 
i.  539. 

;  Bohmer  (Ficker), 
Rea.  imper.  V. 
2087. 


MS.  Harg.  Huillard-Breholles, 
313.  fo.  104.  Hist.  Dipl.,  IV. 
i.  536. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


Cl 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


130- 

cont. 


ject  of  the  above  in-  Pottliast,  Reg. 

tended  marriage.  Pont.  9879. 

Perugia,  16  kal. 

Maij.  anno  9  [1235]. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 


131 


171- 

171  d. 


“  Gregorius  papa  man¬ 
dat  ut  Rex  Henricus 
qui  est  minoris  aetatis 
permittatur  ad  digpo- 
uendum  de  regno  et 
regni  negotiis,  eo  quod 
virtutes  ejus  supplent 
aetatem.” — A  series  of 
4  letters  addressed  by 
the  pope  to  the  earls 
and  barons  of  Eng¬ 
land  ;  to  the  bishop 
of  Winchester,  and 
Hubert  de  Burgh,  the 
justices,  and  W.  Bri- 
were ;  to  the  earl  of 
Chester;  and  to  the 
bishop  electof  Chiches¬ 
ter,  vice-chancellor. 

Lateran,  id.  April, 
anno  1. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 


MS.  Harg.  Foedera ,  I.  190 
313,  fo.  104.  (in  part). 

Matt.  Paris.  Chron. 
Major  ( Addita¬ 
menta ),  VI.  69 
(abridged). 


132 


172- 
174  d. 


“  Conquestio  Erederici 
Imperatoris  de  injuriis 
ei  illatis  per  Papam.” 
— A  series  of  four  let¬ 
ters  addressed  by  the 
Emperor  to  his  bro¬ 
ther-in-law  the  king 
of  England. 

(i.)  Dated  Viterbo, 
16th  March,  13th  of 
the  Indiction  [1239]. 


(ii.)  Dated  In  de¬ 
populatione  Ascoli, 
18th  July,  13tli  of  the 
Indiction  [1240]. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
101-106. 


—  Matt.  Paris.  Chron. 

Major,  III.  631. 
Mon.  Germ., 
XXVIII.  182. 
Close  Roll,  j  Foedera ,  I.  236. 
42-7  Hen.  Bohmer,  Reg.  im- 
III., M.  14-  !  per.  3129. 


Cll 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


132— j 
cont. 


(iii.)  Dated  “In  ob-  Close  Roll, 
sidione  Faventiae,”  42-7  Hen. 
13th  Sept.,  1 4th  of  the  III.,  M.  14. 
Indiction  [1240]. 


(iv.)  Dated  Faenza, 
18tl}  May,  14  th  of 
the  Indiction  [  1240]  4 


Close  Roll, 
42—7  Hen. 
III.,  M.  14. 


133 


174  d.- 
176. 


“  Carta  conventionis 
inter  regem  Anglite 
et  [Alexandrum]  re- 
gem  Scociae  de  comi¬ 
tatibus  Norhumber- 
landiae,  Cumbrelandite, 
Westmorlandiae,  et  de 
quibusdam  terris.” 

[1237.]  Lat. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
106-106  a. 
Pat.,  21  Hen. 
IIT.,  M.  2  d. 
Chapter  Ho., 
Box  152, 
No.  41  (ori¬ 
ginal). 


( 

Where  printed. 


Feeder  a,  I.  238. 
Matt.  Paris.  Chron. 

Major ,  IV.  65. 
P.  deVineis,  Epist. 

I.  34,  221. 

Mon.  Germ., 

XX  VIII.  197. 
Feeder  a,  I.  241. 
Matt.  Paris.  Chron. 

Major ,  IV.  126. 
P.  de  Vineis, 
Epist.  I.  9,  120. 
Mon.  Germ., 

XXVIII.  215. 

Foedera,  I.  233 
(incorrectly). 
Calendarof  Docts., 
Scotland, 1. 1358. 
[Abstract.  Engl.] 


134 


176 


Pro  domino  Eboracen- 
si  Arcliiepiscopo  con¬ 
tra  Episcopos  Scotiae.” 
— Letter  of  W[illiam 

1., ]  king  of  Scotland, 
to  Pope  Alexander 

111., ]  concerning  the 
subjection  of  the 
church  of  Scotland 
to  the  Archbishop  of 
York.  [1176.] 2 

Hen.  III.  Lat. 


Calendar  of  Docts., 
Scotland,  I.  147.  i 
Benedict  Abbas,  I. 

3  (notice  only). 
Haddan  &  Stubbs, 
Councils,  II.  244. 
[Abstract.  Engl.'] 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 
106  a. 


1  These  letters,  together  with  the  remainder  of  the  Imperial  correspondence 
entered  in  this  Book,  are  also  printed  in  Monumenta  Germania;,  XXVIII.,  and 
Winkelmann,  Acta  Imperii  II.,  49,  sqq.  See  also  Dr.  Liebermann’s  account  of  the 
Exchequer  Text  in  Neues  Archiv.  dev  Gesellschaft  (1885),  X.  594. 

2  Apparently  the  only  early  copy  of  this  alleged  forged  document.  See  Hailes’ 
Annals,  a.d.  1176,  and  the  account  of  the  MSS.  by  Haddan  &  Stubbs. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


Clll 


Parallel  MSS. 


No.  Folio. 


Description. 


135  176  b- 
i  177  b 


Letter  of  the  Emperor 
Frederick  II.  to  bis 
brother-in-law  Henry 
III.,  king  of  England, 
on  the  subject  of  his 
quarrel  with  the 
pope. 

Salerno,  15th  April, 
4th  of  the  Indiction 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
106  a- 107. 


I 


[1246]. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


136  177  d. 


Letter  of  Walter  de 
Ocra,  the  emperor’s 
clerk,  giving  an  ac¬ 
count  of  the  capture 
and  destruction  of 
Carpaccio.  n.d.[1246.] 
Contemp.  Lat. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 
107. 


137 


177  d.- 
179 


Letter  of  the  Emperor 
Frederick  II.  to  the 
prelates,  earls,  barons 
and  all  others  of  the 
realm  of  England  on 
the  subject  of  his 
quarrel  with  the 
pope. 

Turin,  prid.  Aug., 
3rd  of  the  Indiction 
[1245], 

Contemp.  Lat. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
107-107  a. 


138 


The  same  to  all  the 
kings  and  princes  of 
Christendom  on  the 
same  subject.  n.d. 
[1246.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
107  a-108. 


139  179  d.-l  “  Littera  Robert!  quon- 
180  dam  Lincoliensis  Epis¬ 
copi  ad  judices  dele- 
gatos[mandantes]  auc- 


Where  printed. 


Matt.  Paris.  Chron. 

Major ,  IV.  570. 
P.  de  Vineis,  II. 
10,  273. 

I  Mon.  Germ., 
XXVIII.  282. 


Matt.  Paris.  Chron. 

Major ,  IV.  575. 
Mon.  Germ., 
XXVIII.  284. 


Matt.Paris.  Chron. 

Major ,  IV.  538. 
P.  de  Vineis,  I.  3, 
98. 

Mon.  Germ., 
XXVIII.  276. 


I 

Matt.  Paris.  Ilist. 

Major ,  IV.  475. 
Mon.  Germ., 
XXVIII.  269. 


Matt.Paris.  Chron. 

Major,  V.  389. 
Matt.  Paris.  Hist. 
Anglor.,\l\  .140. 


CIV 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


139- 

cont. 


toritate  sibi  tradita 
conferre  prehendam 
[de]  Bramtone  cui¬ 
dam  Romano  [Fred-  J 
erico],  nepoti  domini  . 
Papte  [Innocentii 
IV].”  [1253.] 

13th  cent.  Lat. 


140 


180  Memorandum  that  the 
sum  of  the  fifteenth, 
i  assessed  throughout 
i  England  in  the  8th 
year  of  King  Henry 
j  the  Third,  was  86,7 58 
marks  and  2  pence. 

That  the  sum  of  the 
fortieth  in  the  17th 
year  was  24,7 12  marks 
7  shillings  and  5  pence; 
and  the  sum  of  the  ca- 
rucage  3,000  marks. 

That  the  sum  of  the 
thirtieth  in  the  21st 
year  was33, 891  marks 
2shillingsand  lpenny. 

Hen.  III.  Lat.  i 
See  also  No.  205. 


141 


180- 
180  d. 


Letters  patent  of 
William  Marshal, 
Earl  of  Pembroke, 
and  all  the  great 
men  of  Ireland,  pro¬ 
testing  against  the 
pope’s  intervention 
in  England  to  the 
prejudice  of  the  king 
and  of  the  English 
church,  n.d.  [?  1212.] 
13th  cent.  Lat. 


Epistolae  Robert  i 
Grosseteste,  432. 
Mon  .Francisco  na, 
I.  382. 

Annal.  Burton. 
(Rolls),  311. 


P.  1064. 


Calendar  of  Docts., 
Ireland,  1212, 
No.  448. 1 
[Abstract.  Engl^\ 


From  the  transcript  of  the  Red  Book,  Vol.  V.,  fo.  180. 


i 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


CV 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


142 


180d. 


Submission  of  Walter 
de  Lascv,  brother  of 
Hugh  de  Lascy,  to 
the  king  in  his  court 
at  Dublin,  on  the 
vigil  of  SS.  Peter 
and  Paul,  12  [John]. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 


143 


181- 

182 


“  Statuta  Regis  Henrici 
Tertii  ” — The  provi¬ 
sions  made  at  West¬ 
minster  by  the  com¬ 
mon  counsel,  and 
consent  of  the  king 
and  his  great  men,  in 
the  quinzaine  of  St. 
Michael,  1259. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


L.  T.  R. 
Misc.  £§, 
M.  5  d 


144 


182  b 
rider. 


Writ  to  the  knights 
and  all  other  tenants 
of  the  liberty  of  the 
bishopric  of  Dur¬ 
ham,  that  the  custody 
thereof  is  committed  to 
Robert  [de  Clifford],2 
and  enjoining  them  to 
be  attentive  to  the 
same. 

Imperf.  Westm., 
17  July,  30  [Edw.  I.]. 


Pat.  Roll,  30 
Edw.  I., 
M.  16. 


The  same  to  A  [nthony] , 
bishop  of  Durham,  to 
levy  certain  amerci¬ 
aments,  fines,  and 
issues,  which  had  be¬ 
come  due  whilst  the 


Where  printed. 


Calendar  of  Docts., 
Ireland,  1210, 
No,  402. 

[ Abstract .  Engl .] 


Statutes  of  the 
Realm,  I.  8.1 


P.  1026. 


1  Not  collated  with  this  Book. 

2  Hiatus  in  MS.  supplied  from  the  Patent  Roll. 


CV1 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


144-; 

cnnt. 


145 


182  c.  j  Letters  patent  reciting 
{rider)  j  the  proceedings  taken 
before  the  king  and 
his  council  at  Dur¬ 
ham  in  three  weeks 
of  Easter,  in  the  31st 
year,  in  respect  of  the 
custody  of  the  liberty 
t  of  the  bishopric  of 
Durham  during  the 
J  vacancy  of  the  see, 
and  restoring  to  the 
bishop  and  his  succes¬ 
sors  all  their  ancient 
liberties,  saving  the 
dignity  of  the  Crown. 

Perth,  8  July,  31 
[Edw.  I.]. 

Contemp.  Lat 1 


14G 


183- 

184 


117 


184 


liberty  was  in  the 
king’s  hands. 

Jeddeworth,  23  Aug. 
32  [Edw.  I.]. 

A  note  that  the  record 
of  the  liberty  of  Dur¬ 
ham,  taken  into  the 
king’s  hand,  is  to  be 
entered  first  of  all  in 
the  lied  Book. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


“  Carta  de  libertatibus 
concessis  magnatibus 
Angliae.”  Undated. 
A  copy  of  Magna 
Carta  as  confirmed 
9  Henry  III. 

Hen.  III.  Lat. 

Memorandum  that  on 
the  third  day  before  the  I 


I 

Parallel  MSS.  j  Where  printed. 


Pat.  Roll,  31 
Edw.  L,  M. 
19. 


P.  1027. 


MS.  Harg., 
fos.  108- 
109. 


Statutes  of  the 
Realm,  I.  22. 


I 


Statutes  of  the 
Realm,  I.  6. 


1  See  Pp.  ccclxxiv.  and  1070. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


CV11 


No.  !  Folio. 


147- 

cont.\ 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


ides  of  May  1253,  in  I 
the  King’s  great  hall 
at  Westminster,  in  the 
presence  and  with  the 
assent  of  the  king,  his 
brother  [Richard  of 
Cornwall],  and  other 
nobles  and  prelates, 
sentence  of  excom¬ 
munication  was  pro¬ 
nounced  by  Boniface, 
Archbishop  of  Canter¬ 
bury,  against  those 
who  should  transgress 
the  Charter  of  Liber¬ 
ties,  and  the  Charter 
of  the  Forest,  in  form 
following.1 

Contemp.  Lat. 


148 


184  d.-  Abstracts  of  the  sheriffs 
194  farms,  &c.  from  the 
Pipe  Rolls,  1  to  14 
Henry  II.,  with  ex¬ 
planatory  notes. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
109-124. 
Pipe  Rolls. 
Chancellor’s 
Rolls. 


149 


194  d.- 
195 


“  Kancia  —  Constabu- 
larii  de  feodo  super 
wardam  Dovorae  de 
diversis  baroniis  anno 
xlvj°  Regis  Henrici 
Tertii,  per  Robertum 
Waleraund.” 

Contemp.  Lat. 


150 


195  d. 


“  Northumbrelande  — 
Feoda  pertinentia  ad 
wardam  Novi  Castri 
super  Tinam.” 

Contemp.  Lat. 


Where  printed. 


Feed  era,  I.  289. 
Matt.Paris.  Chron. 

Major,  Y.  376. 
Mun  Gildhall., 
II.  i.  42. 


P.  648. 


P.  706. 


P.  712. 


1  This  is  the  famous  Sententia  lata  of  which  an  infinite  number  of  copies  exist 
amongst  early  legal  collections. 


CVlll 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

151 

105  cl. 

“  Compotus  de  Cor- 
nagiis  Nortbumbre- 
landige  redditus  ad 
Scaccarium  anno  re¬ 
gis  Henrici  xlix0  per 
Robert um  de  Insula 
vicecomitem.” 

Contemp.  Lat. 

P.  713. 

152 

196 

“  Quinque  Portus  et  eo¬ 
rum  menbra  cum  ser¬ 
vitiis  Regi  debitis  de 
Portubus  predictis  an¬ 
imating  cum  necesse 
fuerit.”  1 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 

MS.  Ashmol., 
770. 

P.  714. 

153 

196  d. 

“  Berks — Warda  debita 
castro  de  Windesores 
per  singulas  quadra¬ 
genas  anni.” 

13tb  cent.  Lat. 

P.  716. 

154 

196d.- 

197 

“  Katicia — Feoda  qute 
debentur  ad  custodi¬ 
am  castri  Dovoras.” 
13th  cent.  Lat. 

" 

P.  717. 

155 

197  d. 

“  Kancia  —  Certificatio 
portus  Dovorte,  et  quid 
et  quantum  domino 
Regi  debetur,  et  quid 
ab  eodem  alienatur,  et 
quomodo.” 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

P.  722. 

156 

197  d. 

“  Kancia — Isti  sunt  qui 
babent  transitum  sine 
tello  apud  Dovoram 

— 

P.  723. 

1  A  similar  table  is  to  be  found  in  MSS.  Corpus  Coll.,  Cantabr.,  in  French  ;  cf. 
also  the  lost  Register  of  the  Cinque  Ports  and  Chapter  House  Book  A  The 
Ashmolean  transcript  is  from  a  Tower  Record  which  was  doubtless  the  original  of 
the  entry  in  this  book. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


No. 


Folio. 


156- 

cont. 


Description.  1  Parallel  MSS.  j 


cum  tota  eorum  fami¬ 
lia,  &c.” 

13th  cent.  Lat. 


157 


Provisio  domini  Hen- 
rici  Regis  filii  Regis 
Johannis  et  magna¬ 
tum  suorum  facta 
apud  Windesores  anno 
regni  sui  xl°  (de  die 
excressente  in  anno 
bisextili  qualiter  com¬ 
putabitur). 

13th  cent.  Lat. 


Close  Roll, 
40  Hen. 
III.,  M. 
12  d.1 


158 


1 98-  Abstracts  of  the  sheriffs’ 
211  farms,  &c.  from  the 
Pipe  Rolls,  19  to  24. 
Henry  II. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
109-124. 


159 


211  d. 


Memorandum  that  a 
ring,  palfrey,  and  cup 
of  the  Bishop  of  Bath 
were  delivered  at  the 
Exchequer  to  the 
king’s  use.  Hillary  T. 
2  Edw.  II. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

See  also  No.  3. 


Q.R.  Memor. 
Hil.  Recor¬ 
da,  2  Edw. 
II.,  rot.  56d. 


160 


Memorandum  that  the 
writ  under  the  Great 
Seal  directed  to  the 
treasurer  and  barons 
for  apply  ing  a  remedy 
to  the  usurpations  and 
appropriations  com¬ 
mitted  against  the 
king  by  divers  per¬ 
sons  in  several  fo¬ 
rests  of  England  after 
the  arrentations  made 


[L.T.R.  Me¬ 
mor.  Brevia 
Baronibus 
directa. 
Hil.,1  lEdw. 
II.] 


cix 


Where  printed. 


Stats,  of  Realm,  I. 
7. 


P.  840. 


1  This  provision  was  also  transcribed  in  the  Liber  Horn,  fo,  175, 


cx 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

160- 

cont. 

therein  by  those  who 
were  assigned  to  ar- 
rent  the  same  is  in- 
rolled.  11  [Edw.  II.]. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

161 

Memorandum  that  the 
writ  under  the  Great 
Seal  directed  to  the 
treasurer  and  barons 
to  do  justice  to  all 
wishing  to  sue  in  the 
Exchequer  notwith¬ 
standing  any  man¬ 
dates  under  the  Great 
Seal  or  the  Privy 
Seal  is  inrolled.  Mich. 
11  [Edw.  II.] 

[L.  T.  R.  Me¬ 
mor.  Brevia 
Baronibus 
directa. 
Mich.,  1 1 
Edw.  II.] 

P.  840. 

»  •  •  /r 

162 

Memorandum  that  the 
writ  under  the  Privy 
Seal  directed  to  John 
de  Sandale,  late  trea¬ 
surer,  that  he  should 
not  make  assignment 
to  any  without  the 
king’s  special  man¬ 
date,  in  which  men¬ 
tion  is  made  of  the 
aforesaid  writ  of 

Privy  Seal,  is  in- 
rolled.  12  [Edw.  II.]. 

[L.T.R.  Me¬ 
mor.  Bria. 
Baron,  di¬ 
recta. 

Mich.,  12 
Edw.  IL] 

P.  840. 

163 

.. 

Memorandum  that  the 
writ  under  the  Great 
Seal  respecting  clip¬ 
ped  and  counterfeited 
money  to  be  defaced 
and  conveyed  to  the 
Exchange  of  London, 
and  to  be  re-coined 
there  is  inrolled.  12 
[Edw.  II.]. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

[L.T.R.  Me¬ 
mor.  Bre¬ 
via  Baron¬ 
ibus  directa. 
Hil.,  12 
Edw.  II.] 

P.  841. 

• 

TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


CXI 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

164 

211  d. 

Memorandum  that  the 

[L.T.R.  Me- 

writ  under  the  Great 

mor.  Re- 

Seal  for  gifts  to  be 

corda  Hil., 

recalled,  and  lands, 

11  Edw. II.] 

wardships,  marriages, 
and  escheats  granted 
by  the  king  to  be  re¬ 
sumed  into  his  hands 
isinrolled.  IlEdw.  II. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


165 


Memorandum  that  simi¬ 
lar  writs  to  the  above 
effect  are  inrolled. 

Edw.  II.  Lat. 


[L.T.R.  Me¬ 
mor.  Com- 
mun.Pasch., 
9  Edw.  II., 
rot.  5. 

Originalia,  9 
Edw.  II.. 
rot.  5  &  6. 

L.  T.  R.  Me¬ 
mor.  Com¬ 
munia,  8 
Edw.  II.] 


166 


Memorandum  that  the 
Bull  and  letter  patent 
of  brother  Aubert  de 
Nigro  Castro,  chief 
preceptor  of  the  Hos¬ 
pital  of  St.  John  of 
Jerusalem,  of  Philip 
de  Granana,  and  Leo¬ 
nard  de  Tibertis,  of 
the  acquittance  made 
to  the  king  of  the 
goods  of  the  Templars, 
and  also  certain  in¬ 
struments  touching 
the  said  business,  will 
be  found  inrolled. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


[Q.R.  Memor. 
Record.  Mil., 
7  Edw.  II.] 


Where  printed. 


P.  811. 


P.  841. 


P.  841." 


cxn 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No.  Folio. 


167  212 


Description. 


Memorandum  that  on 
the  19th  day  of  Sep¬ 
tember  in  the  30th 
year  of  King  Edward 
the  Third  was  the 
battle  of  Peyters,  in 
which  was  taken  John, 
King  of  France,  and 
Philip,  his  son,  by 
Edward,  eldest  son  of 
the  King  of  England. 

Also,  that  the  said 
King  Edward  died 
21  June  in  the  51st 
year  of  his  reign  in 
England,  a.d.  1377. 

Also,  that  the  said  Ed¬ 
ward,  eldest  son  of 
the  same  king,  died  8 
June  in  the  same  year. 

Also  that  King  Richard 
the  Second,  son  of 
the  last-named,  was 
crowned  16  July  in 
the  same  year. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


168 


214-  Abstracts  of  the  sheriffs’ 
214  d.1  farms.  1  to  3  Ric.  I. 

1 3th  cent.  Lat. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


I  P.  841. 


| 


MS.  Harg.  j 
313,  fos.  j 
109-124. 


169 


214  d. 


N  orthampton. — Return 
of  knight’s  fees  for 
the  honour  of  Stoke, 
which  Robert  de 
Giines  holds. 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 


P.  727. 


170 


215  d.- 
2162 


Privileges  granted  to 
the  barons  of  the  Ex¬ 
chequer  and  others 


MS.  Harg.  j  P.  814. 
313,  fos.  I 
124-124  a. 


1  Fos.  212  d.,  213,  and  213  d,  are  blank. 

2  Fo,  215  is  blank, 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


CXlll 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

170- 

by  the  King’s  writ  as 

— .  ,  ' 

cont. 

notified  in  the  Pipe 
Polls.  5  to  15  Hen.  II. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

. 

171 

216  d. 

“  Nomina  Anglica  usitata 

P.  1032. 

in  cartis  antiquorum 

MS.  Reg. 

Hoveden  (Rolls), 

Regum  Anglim,  et  ad- 

14,  C.  II. 

II.  242. 

huc  apposita  in  cartis 

Higden  (Rolls), 

modernorum,  exposita 

II.  90. 

ab  Alexandro  Archi- 

Bromton  (Twys- 

diacono  Salesburiae 

den)  Col. 

secundum  quod  con- 

Rudborne  (Angl. 

tinentur 1  in  legibus 

Sacr.,  I.  260). 

luse  Regis,  Alvredi 
Alyestani,  Alyelredi 

MS. Norwich. 

Bart.  Cotton 

(Rolls),  439. 

et  Edwardi  et  Cannti 

MSS.  Gild- 

Mon.  Gildh. 

Regum. 

hall.  Li. 

(Rolls),  III., 

Anglo  -  Sax.  and 

Memor.  Li. 

153. 

French.  14th  cent. 

Horn. 

MS.  Rawl. 

B.  356. 

MS.  St. 

Hist.  MSS.  Com., 

Paul’s.  Li- 

IX.  Rep.,  Appx. 

ber  Pilo- 

X.,  60. 

sus. 

Exch.  T.  of 

— 

• 

R.  Misc. 

5  8 

T5- 

MSS.  Arund. 

— 

221,  310. 
MS.  Hoik- 

j 

ham  158. 
MS.  Gage.2 

MS.  Rothe- 

Archteologia 

ley. 

XLVII.  128. 

MS.  Registr. 

Memor,  of  Foun- 

Priv.  de 

tains  (Surtees), 

Font. 

MS.  Reg  9 

II.  17. 

|  .  ••  >  i 

A.  II. 

1  Sic 

in  MS. 

2  Now  in  the  possession  of  H.H.  Prince  Frederick  Dhulip  Singh. 


63377. 


1 


CX1V 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio.  I 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

171- 

I 

MS.  Reg.  11 

- 

cont. 

A.  VIII. 
MS.  Add. 

6,159. 

MS.  Rawl. 

Cart.  St.  Mary, Dub- 

B.  495. 

lin  (Rolls),  I.  375. 

MSS.  Lansd. 

— 

476,  575. 
MSS.  Harg. 

_____  ' 

336,  434. 
MSS.  Cot- 

Hickes,  Thesau- 

ten  Cleop. 
C.  VII., 
Gralb.  E. 

rus ,  III.  284. 

IV.,  Vitell. 
C.  IX., 

Faust  A. 

IV.,  Nero, 
A.  XII., 
Vesp.  D. 

* 

XVI.,  Jul. 
D.  VII., 
Claud.  E. 

Reliq.  Antiq .,  p. 

VII. 

33. 

W dicker  Alten- 

* 

glisches  Lese- 
buch,  1. 120,178. 

MSS.  Harl. 

— 

1 

489,  493, 
658,  667, 
692,  748, 
813,  858, 
1005, 1033, 
2057,  2079, 
6166. 

MSS.  Camb. 

— 

Univ.  Lib. 
D.d.  VII. 
6;  G.g.V. 
7;  K.k. 
VJ.  44 ; 
M.m.  V. 

1 

19  ;  M.m. 
IX.  38r 

TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


CXV 


No. 

I 

171- 

cont. 


172 


173 


Folio. 


Description.  !  Parallel  MSS. 


MS.  Lam¬ 
beth  179. 
MS.  Oriel, 
Oxon.,  46. 
MS.  Corp., 
Camb.,  70. 
MS.  Ashmol. 
1276. 


Where  printed. 


217(1. 


1  218- 
230 


Memorandum  of  an  aid 
granted  by  the  ba¬ 
rons  and  knights,  19 
Hen.  III.,  to  marry 
Isabella,  the  King’s 
sister,  to  Frederick, 
the  Roman  Emperor, 
namely,  of  every  shield 
2  marks.1 

Also  of  an  aid  granted 
in  the  29  th  year  of  the 
same  King  to  marry 
his  eldest  daughter 
[Margaret],  namely, 
of  every  shield  20s.1 

Also  of  an  aid  granted 
in  the  38th  year  of 
the  same  King  to  make 
his  eldest  son  [Ed- 

»  ward]  a  knight,  the 
shield  being  assessed 
at  40s.1 

Also  of  an  aid  granted 
Thursday,  1  June, 
18  Edw.  I.,  to  marry 
the  King’s  eldest 
daughter,  namely,  of 
every  shield  40s.2 

Synopsis  of  the  knights' 
fees  assessed  in  divers 
counties  in  the  reigns 
of  Henry  II.  and  Ri- 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
125-131  a. 


Pp.  10(54-5. 


P.  729. 


Cf.  Pipe  Rolls  of  the  several  counties  of  England  and  the  Testa  de  Neuill. 
Cf.  L.  T.  R.  Memor.  Com.  Trim,  18  Edw.  I. 

i  2 


CXV1 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

173— 

cont. 

chard  I.  [apparently 
compiled  by  Alex¬ 
ander  de  Swereford]. 
Hen.  III.  Lat. 

! 

174 

230  d. 

Knights’  Fees  of  the 
Archbishopric  of  Can¬ 
terbury,  about  the  year 
1212. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

P.  724. 

175 

230  d.- 
231 

Exchequer  precedents, 
collected  out  of  the 
Pipe  Rolls,  chiefly  of 
Richard  I.  and  John. 
13th  cent.  Lat. 

MS.  Harg. 
313,  132  a. 

P.  746. 

176 

231 

An  extract  from  a 
Book  of  Rochester 
showing  the  assess¬ 
ments  of  the  bishoprics 
of  England  in  respect 
of  Peter’s  Pence. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

P.  750. 

177 

An  extract  from  the 
same  book  respecting 
the  Assize  of  Bread, 
temp.  Richard  I. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

P.  750. 

« 

178 

“  Decimae  separabiles 
datae  ecclesiae  Roffen- 
si  de  dominicis  ex- 
t.rinsecis.”  1 

1 3th  cent..  Lat. 

P.  751. 

179 

Extracts  from  a  book 
of  Fever  sham  Abbey 
setting  forth  the  de¬ 
scent  of  the  House  of 
Blois  from  Will  i  am  I.2 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

1' 

1 

P.  752. 

. 

1  Cf.  Textus  R  offensis  passim.  A  very  similar  list  will  be  found  in  the  Reyistrum 
Roffense  {Ed.  Thorpe),  pp.  44,  46,  1 16,  117. 

2  jo  or  an  apparent  mention  of  this  Book,  see  Palgrave’s  Documents  and  Records, 

Scotland.  L.,  p.  92, 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


CXV11 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


j 

Where  printed. 


180 


231  A  legend  in  tlie  same 
book  concerning  the 
same  family. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 


I  P.  753. 


181 


182 

183 


231  d. 


Extracts  from  the  Pipe 
Rolls  for  divers 
counties,  1  Ric.  I., 
setting  forth  cer¬ 
tain  amerciaments 
levied  upon  sheriffs 
and  other  accountants 
for  delay  in  answer¬ 
ing  their  summonses 
at  the  Exchequer, 
and  concerning  the 
amerciament  of 

[Hugh],  Bishop  of 
Durham,  for  a  plea 
concerning  an  advow- 
son  held  by  him  in  a 
Spiritual  Court. 

Like  extracts  from  the 
Pipe  Roll,  2  Ric.  I. 

“Cambium.” — The  rela¬ 
tive  value  of  the  silver 
obtained  from  several 
foreign  countries,  and 
other  matters  for  the 
guidance  of  the  King’s 
exchanger  or  pur¬ 


veyor. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 


184 


Form  of  writ  to  the 
sheriff  that  he  shall  not 
permit  such  a  bishop 
or  his  ministers  to 
levy  from  his  tenants 
a  greater  sum  in  re¬ 
spect  of  the  aid  for 
making  the  King’s 
eldest  son  a  knight 
than  that  which  he 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 
132  a. 

Pipe  Roll. 
1  Rio,  I., 
Norf.  and 
Suff. 


MS.  Harg. 
313, fo. 132a. 

MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 
132  a. 

Cotton  MS. 
Cleo.A.  16. 


P.  979. 


P.  842. 


CXVlll 


RED  ROOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS.  | 

184- 

has  rendered  himself 

cont. 

to  the  King  for  the 
same  aid. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

185 

231  d. 

Memorandum  of  a  fine 

Pipe  Roll, 

of  half  a  mark  paid 

20  Hen.  III., 

by  Geoffrey  de  Lucy, 
20  Hen.  III.,  to  in¬ 
spect  the  foot  of  a 

Essex. 

certain  chirograph. 

1 3th  cent.  Lat. 


186 


An  extract  from  Domes¬ 
day  Book  concerning 
the  manors  of  Wiles- 
dune  andDraitone,co. 
Middlesex. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 
132  a. 


Where  printed. 


P.  842. 


1 


; 

i 

\ 

i 


187 


232 


The  case  of  Bartholo¬ 
mew  de  Cheym,  who 
held  lands  in  Surrey 
by  the  serjeantry  of 
providing  a  cook  in 
the  King’s  kitchen  on 
the  day  of  his  corona¬ 
tion.  20  Hen.  III. 

Conterop.  Lat. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 
132  a. 


P.  754. 


i 

i 

1 


1 


188 


232 


189  232 


Account  of  the  corona¬ 
tion  of  Eleanor, 
daughter  of  Hugh, 
Count  of  Provence, 
Queen  of  Henry  III., 
at  Westminster,  in  the 
same  year,  with  the 
claims  of  service  then 
made  and  exercised. 
[Jan.  20,  1236.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Note  of  the  marriage  of 
Margaret,  daughter  of 
Henry  III.,  and  Alex¬ 
ander  [II.],  King  of 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fos. 
132a-133a. 
Cott.  MS. 
Vesp.C.14.1 
S.P.  Misc. 

No.  40. 
Q.R.  Ward¬ 
robe  and 
House- 
|  hold  l2 
MS.  Harg. 
fo.  133  a. 


P.  755. 

Matt.  Paris.  Chron. 
Major ,  III.  337 
(abridged) . 


P.  760. 

Matthew  Paris. 
Chron.  Major  . 
267-70  (fuller). 


1  An  English  translation  of  the  16th  cent. 

2  Transcript,  circa  1509,  for  the  Coronation  of  Henry  VIII. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


CX1X 


No. 

Folio. 

Description.  Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

189- 

Scotland,  at  York, 

Fordun,  Scoti- 

CO  lit. 

the  morrow  of  the 

chronicon,  p. 

Nativity,  1251. 

762. 

190 

232  d. 

The  names  of  the  cant-  MS.  Harg. 

P.  760. 

reds  of  Wales.  313,  fo. 

Hen.  III.  Lat.  133  d. 

:  cf.  ms. 

Cyinmrodor.  ix. 

|  Ilergt.  34. 

pt.  2. 

MS.  Hergt. 

Ed.  Rhys  and 

Evans,  II.  407. 

MS.  Cotton, 

Leland,  Itinerary, 

!  Dom.VlIl. 

V.  168. 

Liber  Lan- 

Ed.  Evans,  p.  247. 

191 


192 


193 


194 


232  d. 


The  names  of  the  Eng¬ 
lish  kings  from  Ina 
to  the  death  of  Hen. 
III.1 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

An  extract  from 
Domesday  Book, 
Berks,  respecting  the 
custom  of  military 
service  in  England. 

13th  cent.  Lat.2 

An  extract  from  the 
same  book  concern¬ 
ing  Babylon. 

Qwestiones  curiae. — 
Constitutional  ques¬ 
tions  arising  in  certain 
cases  of  wardship  and 
succession. 

Hen.  III.  Lat. 


davensis. 
MS.  Ball. 
Coll.  Oxon., 
353  (trspt.). 

MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 
133  a. 


MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 

133  a. 

MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 

133  a. 


P.  762. 


P.  763. 


P.  764. 


Pp.  764-8. 


1  See  p.  3  of  this  edition  for  a  similar  list.  These  are  probabl}  derived,  through 
Hoveden,  from  Florence  of  "Worcester,  849.  See  p.  cclxii. 

2  This  entry  is  followed  by  two  other  short  entries  on  the  same  folio,  which  are 
now  utterly  illegible,  except  that  the  hist  lefers  to  the  year  1253. 


cxx 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Descriptiou. 

1  Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

195 

232  d. 
-233 

Memorandum  of  prece¬ 
dents  found  in  the 
Pipe  Rolls  of  John 
and  Henry  III. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

MS.  Harg. 
313.  fos. 
134-134  a 

Pp.  768-71. 

190 

233 

“  Incrementa  comita¬ 
tuum  omnium  Angliae 
anno  Regis  Henrici 
filij  Regis  Johannis 
xxv°  coram  Stephano 
de  Segrave.” 

MS.  Hara. 
313,  fo. 

134  a. 

P.  771. 

197 

233 

“  Recepta  a  rege  Jo- 
hanne  de  Episcopati¬ 
bus,  Abbatiis,  et  aliis 
clericis  Angiiae  tem¬ 
pore  Interdicti  pro 
Stephano,  Archiepis- 
copo  Cantuariensi.” 
[1208-13]. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 

134  a. 

P.  772. 

198 

233  d. 

“Rotulus quondam  Ro- 
berti  Mantel  de  firma 
comitatuum  Essexae  et 
Hertfordsirae,”  etc. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

MS.  Harg. 
313,  fo. 

134  a-135. 

P.  774. 

199 

234- 
230  d. 

Inspeximus  of  Magna 
Carta  by  Stephen, 
Archbishop  of  Can¬ 
terbury,  and  other 
prelates,  with  Pandulf, 
the  Pope’s  legate,  as 
an  assurance  of  its 
validity.  [1215.] 

Edw.  II.  Lat. 

Statutes  of  the 
Realm,  I.  9. 

200 

237- 
237  d. 

Transcript  of  the  King’s 
letter  directed  to  Ro¬ 
bert,  Count  of  Flan¬ 
ders,  whereby  he 
conveys  to  the  said 
count,  that  the  Scotch 
and  their  adherents 

_ 

Rot.  Scotiae,  I. 
193  a. 

j 

TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


CXXl 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

j 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

200- 

cont. 

• 

and  favourers  are  ex¬ 
communicated  by  the 
Pope,  and  exhorts 
him  not  to  have  com¬ 
munication  with  them 
himself  or  by  his 
subjects. 

York,  25  Mar.,  12 
[Edw.  II.]. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

201 

241- 
241  d.1 

Dates  i  from  which  the 
regnal  years  of  the 
kings  of  England  are 
computed  from  Hen¬ 
ry  III.  to  James  I., 
with  a  note  of  sopie 
of  the  chief  events  of 
the  reign  of  the  first- 
named  King. 

Contemp.  Lat.2 

P.  1066. 

202 

242 

Reporjt  of  a  decision  by 
the  King  and  council 
as  to  the  right  of 
presentation  to  the 
church  of  Eton.  52 
Hen.  III. 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 

P.  1011. 

203 

242 

Writ  to  [Richard] 
Bishop  of  Lincoln 
in  the  matter  of  the 
prior  of  St.  John  of 
Jerusalem  against 

Thomas,  son  of  Lam¬ 
bert  de  Mol  tone,  for 
three-fourths  of  the 
presentation  to  the 

P.  1012. 

1  Fos.  238  to  240  d.  are  blank,  and  the  Calendar  begins  on  fo.  241  d.  A  folio  is 
apparently  missing  somewhere,  and  the  pagination  from  fo.  220  onwards  has  been 
altered. 

2  See  Proceedings  of  the  Commission  on  the  Public  Records  (1833),  p.  443. 


CXX11 


RED  BOOK  01’  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

203- 

eont. 

church  of  Kirketon 
in  Holland. 

Westm.,  18  Nov. 

3  Edw.  [I.] 

Contemp.  Lnt. 

204 

242 

Provision  made  52  Hen¬ 
ry  III.  for  assigning 
certain  terms  for  the 
hearing  of  common 
pleas  in  the  Exche¬ 
quer,  in  order  to  a- 
void  theinconvenience 
lately  experienced  in 
auditing  the  sheriffs’ 
accounts. 

Edw.  I.  Lat.1 

P.  842. 

> 

205 

242 

Note  of  the  sums  as¬ 
sessed  in  the  8th, 
17th,  21st,  and  30th 
years  of  Hen.  III. 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 
See  No.  140. 

• 

206 

242  d. 

Provisions  of  the 
Jewry  53  Henry  III. 
delivered  into  the 
Exchequer  by  Sir 
Walter  de  Merton. 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 

Pat.  Roll,  53 
Hen.  III., 
M.  25  d. 
Close  Roll,  53 
Hen.  III., 
M.  10  d. 

P.  978. 

207 

242  d. 

The  form  to  be  ob¬ 
served  in  the  order 
of  the  writing  of  the 
Great  Roll  embodied 
in  a  writ,  12  Feb.,  54 
Henry  ITL,  to  the 
treasurer  and  barons. 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 

Pat.  Roll,  54 
Hen.  III., 
M.  21. 

'P.  842. 

1  No  inrolment  exists  in  the  Memoranda  of  the  Exchequer  for  the  date. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


CXXlll 


No.  I  Folio. 


208 


243- 


244  d. 


Description. 


The  provisions  made 
at  Marleberg  in  the 
presence  of'  King 
Henry  and  Richard, 
King  of  Germany, 
and  Sir  Edward, 
eldest  son  of  the  said 
King,  and  the  lord 
Octobon,  then  legate 
in  England.  Octaves 
of  St.  Martin,  1267. 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 


Parallel  MSS. 


T.  of  R. 
Misc.  |f. 


209  244  d. 


Writ  to  the  treasurer 
and  barons,  enjoining 
them  to  secure  the 
tenants  of  the  King’s 
palace  of  Westmin¬ 
ster  in  all  their  an¬ 
cient  rights  and  liber¬ 
ties  according  to  the 
tenor  of  the  statute 
in  that  case  provided. 

Westm.,  12  June, 
7  Edw.  [1.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 


210 


245 


211 


245 


The  King’s  writ  to  Wil¬ 
liam  Attelberge,  com¬ 
missary  of  the  Arch¬ 
deacon  of  Chester*,  en¬ 
joining  him  to  stay 
all  proceedings  at 
the  suit  of  William 
de  Wymundeham 
against  Simon  de 
Pateshull,  a  debtor  of 
the  crown,  until  next 
Michaelmas. 

Westm.,  22  June, 

3  Edw.  I. 

Quit-claim  of  John  de  1 
Litegreynes  of  certain 
lands  in  Mitford,  and 


Where  printed. 

Statutes  of  the 
Realm,  I.  19. 


P.  829. 


P.  830. 


CXX1V 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

211- 

cont. 

the  advowson  of  the 
church  there  to  the 
King  and  his  heirs. 

Westm.,  18  Apr. 

4  Edw.  [I.] 

Contemp.  Lat.1 

j  i 

212 

245- 
245  d. 

“  Forma  novae  monetae” 
— being  provisions  or 
proposals  for  estab  - 
lishing  a  standard  of 
currency ;  with  the 
names  of  the  officers 
of  the  Exchange  and 
Mint,  and  the  form 
of  a  proclamation 
against  clipping,  &c. 

[Edw.  I.]  French 
and  Latin. 

Rot.  de  Mo¬ 
neta,  7  &  8 
Edw.  I.  in 
MS.  Harl. 
660  (trspt.). 

Cf.  Chapter 
House  Mint 
Box  Chanc. 
file. 

P.  980. 

i 

i 

< 

213 

246 

Remembrance  of 

charges  and  allow¬ 
ances  for  the  opera¬ 
tions  of  the  Mint. 
10  Feb.,  12  Edw.  I. 

Contemp.  French. 

P.  983. 

i 

i 

■> 

214 

246 

An  official  definition  of 
the  duties  and  per¬ 
quisites  of  the  officers 
of  the  Exchange. 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 

P.  983. 

215 

246  d. 

Statutum  de  Religi¬ 
osis,  without  the  salu¬ 
tation  and  attesting 
clause.  [1279.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Statutes  of  the 
Realm,  1.  51.2 

216 

246  d. 

Concord  made  in  the 
king’s  court  at  West¬ 
minster  in  the  Quin- 

Close  Roll, 

8  Edw.  I., 
M.  lid. 

— 

1  No  inrolment  of  this  charter  can  be  found. 

2  Not  collated  with  this  Rook. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


cxxv 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


216— 

emit. 


217  247 


I 


zaine  of  St.  Martin, 
8  Edw.  I.,  before  the 
King’s  justices  there, 
between  our  lord  the 
King,  pit.,  and  Theo¬ 
bald  le  Butiller,  de- 
forct.,  of  the  advow- 
son  of  the  church  of 
Kyrkham,  which  the 
said  Theobald  quit¬ 
claimed  to  the  King 
and  his  heirs,  in  con¬ 
sideration  of  one  Soar 
goshawk. 

Coutemp.  Lat. 

“  De  Moneta  ”  —  A 
further  collection  of 
precedents  respecting 
the  Mint,  compris¬ 
ing  the  indentures  of 
master  William  de 
Turnemire,  as  master 
of  the  King’s  Mint 
in  England,  and  of 
Fache,  the  mer¬ 
chant,  as  chief  as- 
sayer,  purveyor,  and 
weigher  of  the  same. 

Friday  in  the  feast 
of  the  Conception, 
8  Edw.  [I.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 


Liber  A.,  fo. 
198  d. 


P.  985. 


218  247  d.  Fine  made  in  the  King’s  Feetof  Fines, 
court  at  Westminster,  Surrey,  15 
on  the  morrow  of  All  Edw.  I. 
Souls,  15  Edw.  T., 
before  the  King’s  jus¬ 
tices  there,  between 
our  lord  the  King, 
pit.,  and  Robert,  abbot 
of  the  church  of  St. 

John  of  Colchester, 


CXXvi  RED  BOOK  07  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

1 

Where  printed. 

218- 

cont. 

deforciant,  of  the  ad- 
vowson  of  the  church 
of  Ledrede  (Leather- 
head),  which  the  said 
abbot  quit-claimed  to 
the  Ivin»  and  his  heirs, 
in  consideration  of 
100  marks  of  silver. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

219 

247  d. 

Charter  of  Ralph  Pi- 
pard,  knt.,  of  all  his 
castles,  towns,  manors, 
lands  and  tenements, 
in  Ireland,  granted  to 
the  King,  together 
with  the  services  of 
his  son  John  and  his 
wife  Matilda,  in  re¬ 
spect  of  the  manor  of 
Clouncurri,  and  the 
reversion  of  the  said 
manor  and  all  other 

Q.  R.  Memor. 
31  Edw.  I., 
Rot.  33. 

Calendar  of  Docts., 
Ireland,  1302. 
No.  149.  (Ab¬ 
stract.) 

reversions. 

Westminster,  Wed¬ 
nesday  after  the  feast 
of  St.  Martin,  30  Edw. 

[I-] 

Contemp.  Lat. 

220 

248  d.1 

Recognition  of  Isabella 
de  Fortibus,  Countess 
of  Albemarle,  for  ac¬ 
quittance  to  Adam  de 
Strattone,  clerk,  and 
his  heirs,  against  the 
King  and  his  heirs,  of 
]  31.  yearly  out  of  the 
farm  of  Stratton,  pay¬ 
able  at  the  Exche¬ 
quer,  for  which  the 
said  Countess  charges 
all  her  lands  and  tene- 

P.  1024. 

1  Fo.  248  is  blank. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


CXXV11 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

220- 

ments  in  the  counties 

cont. 

of  Southampton,  De¬ 
von,  York,  Herts,  and 
Oxon.  n.d. 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 

221 

248  d. 

Memorandum  that  on 

Q.  R.  Memor- 

Wednesday  the  feast 

anda  Com- 

of  St.  Edward  the 

mu  n.  Mich., 

Confessor,  8  Edw. [I.] 

7  Edw.  I., 

there  came  to  the  Ex- 

rot.  2. 

Where  printed. 


222 


248  d. 


chequer  J  ohn  de  V  esci 
and  others,  and  pro¬ 
claimed  on  the  King’s 
part,  that  Adam  de 
Strattone  was  restored 
to  the  office  of  Cham¬ 
berlain,  lately  resum¬ 
ed  by  reason  of  certain 
trespasses  committed 
by  him.  Whereupon 
the  said  Adam  nomi¬ 
nated  his  brother, 
Henry  de  Strattone, 
as  his  deputy  in  the 
Exchequer  of  Re¬ 
ceipt. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

“  De  Moneta  ”  —  The 
case  of  the  Mint  of 
the  Abbot  of  St.  Ed¬ 
munds  before  the 
King  in  council. 

Edw.  I.  French. 


P.  1025. 


P.  987 


223  249  Quit-claim  by  Matthew, 

Bishop  of  Killaloe,  of 
the  manor  of  Rostre, 
to  the  King  and  his 
heirs  in  exchange  for  3 
j  carucates  and  84^  acres 
of  land  of  the  King’s 
manor  of  Newcastle- 
under  -  Lyme.  n.d. 
[1267-1282.]  Lat. 


CXXV111 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


Folio. 

Description. 

i 

Parallel  MSS. 

No. 


224  249 


225 


249  d. 


226  249  d. 


Where  printed. 


Charter1  of  Gilbert 
Peche,  knt.,  of  the 
manor  of  Westclive 
near  Dover,  with  the 
advowson  and  ser¬ 
vices  thereto  belong¬ 
ing,  granted  to  King 
Edward  and  Eleanor 
his  consort  and  their 
heirs,  in  consideration 
of  1000  marcs  sterling, 
n.d. 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 


Acquittance  of  John  de 
Eston  for  100  librates 
of  land  granted  to 
him  by  the  King  in 
discharge  of  any  title 
claimed  by  him  in  the 
lands  and  tenements  of 
Avelina  de  Fortibus, 
Countess  of  Albe¬ 
marle,  in  England  and 
Normandy,  including 
the  manor  of  Appel- 
trewyk  in  Craven,  in 
recompense  of  which 
the  King  has  allowed 
the  said  John  50 
marcs,  n.d 2 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 


Charter  of  Hugh  de 
Plessetis  of  the  manor 
of  Hedindone  with  the 
appurtenances  grant¬ 
ed  to  the  King  and 
his  heirs,  n.d. 

Edw.  I. 


—  P.  1024. 


Lat. 


Close  Roll,  9 
Edw.  I., 
M.  5  d. 


1  Cf.  Originalia,  12  Edw.  I.,  rot.  3. 

2  Of.  Close  Roll,  6  Edw.  I.,  M.  2  d.,  and  Liber  A.  fo.  192  d. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


CXXIX 


No.  j  Folio.  I  Description. 


227 


249  tl.  Recognition  of  Dionisia 
de  Monte  Canusio  in 
the  King’s  Court,  be¬ 
fore  the  barons  and 
justices  in  the  Exche¬ 
quer,  for  acquittance 
to  the  King  and  Elea¬ 
nor  his  consort  and 
their  heirs  of  all  the 
services  due  to  the 
said  Dionisia  from  the 
manor  of  Quenenden, 
granted  to  the  said 
King  and  Queen  by 
William  de  Monte 
Canusio,  who  held  the 
same  of  her,  against 
Robert  son  of  Walter, 
of  whom  she  holds 
herself,  n.d.  • 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


228 


229 


250 


250 


Quit-claim  by  John, 
Bishop  of  Winches¬ 
ter,  of  the  manor  of 
Sweyneston,  in  the 
Isle  of  Wight,  with 
the  advowsons  of  cer¬ 
tain  churches  there, 
in  consideration  of  a 
quit-claim  of  the 
manor  of  Menes,  and 
divers  advowsons  and 
lands  and  tenements, 
for  which  the  King 
had  impleaded  the  said 
Bishop  in  his  Court. 

Winchester,  Wed¬ 
nesday  in  Easter 
week,  12  Edw.  [I.] 

i  Surrender  of  the  manor 
i  of  Sweyneston  and 


Q.  R.  Memor 
Commun. 
Pasch.,  12 
Edw.  I., 
rot.  6.1 


1  Cf.  Originalia,  12  Edw.  I.,  rot.  8,  in  cedilla. 


63377. 


k 


cxxx 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

229- 

cont. 

the  appurtenances  by 
the  above  bishop  to 
the  King  and  his 
heirs. 

Same  place  and  date. 

230 

250 

Confirmation  of  the 
above  grant  by  the 
prior  and  chapter  of 
St.  Swithin,  Win¬ 
chester. 

Same  place  and  date. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

231 

250  d. 

Quit-claim  by  Chris¬ 
tiana  de  Mariscis,  of 
the  manor  of  Curtone 
in  Kynaleyhan,  co. 
Weseford,  with  the 
appurtenances  grant¬ 
ed  to  King  Edward 
and  Alianora  his  con¬ 
sort  in  consideration 
of  100  marcs. 

[  13"!  Edw.  I.  Lat.1 

232 

250  d. 

Quit-claim  by  John  de 
Cancellis, of  the  manor 
of  Lifton,  co.  Devon, 
with  the  appurten¬ 
ances,  to  the  King  and 
his  heirs. 

Westm.,  Friday  be¬ 
fore  SS.  Simon  and 
Jude,  13  Edw.  [I.] 
Contemp.  Lat. 

233 

250  d. 

Acknowledgment  by 
the  same  of  the  above 
grant,  with  a  further 
warranty  against  all 

1  This  charter,  which  is  omitted  in  the  Calendar  of  Docts.,  Ireland,  appears  to  be 
referred  to  in  the  Liberate  Roll,  13  Edw.  I.,  M.  8.  Cf.  Liber  A,  fo.  416  and  416  1 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


CXXX1 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

233- 

cont. 

incumbrancers  as  well 
Christians  as  Jews. 

Same  place  and 
date. 

Contemp.  Lat.1 

234 

251 

The  King’s  writ  to  the 
justices  itinerant  for 
Essex  for  a  separation 
to  be  made  in  the 
estreats  of  the  justices 
of  debts  appertaining 
to  the  King  from  those 
of  other  men.  n.d. 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 

P.  844. 

235 

251 

Charter  of  Christiana 
de  Marisco  of  all  her 
knights’  fees  and  ad- 
vowsons,  lands  and 
tenements  in  Ireland 
granted  to  King 
Edward  and  Alianora 
his  consort. 

[14]  Edw.  I.  Lat. 

Calendar  of  Docts . , 
Ireland,  No. 

1 800,  and  N  o. 
279.2 

236 

251 

Quit-claim  by  Sir  An¬ 
selm  de  Eyfe,  knt., 
to  the  king  of  100  soli- 
dates  of  yearly  rent  in 
the  King’s  manor  of 
Banstede,  which  he 
holds  of  the  gift  of 
John  de  Burgo,  n.d. 

Edw.  1.  Lat. 

.  ■ 

237 

251  d. 

The  Statute  of  Bigam¬ 
ists  (preamble  and 
Article  I.  only). 

]  Contemp.  Lat. 

. 

Statutes  of  the 
Realm,  I.  42. 

1  No  inrolments  of  these  charters  can  be  found. 

2  It  would  seem  that  the  same  charter  has  been  calendared  twice,  once  in  the  year 
1280  from  the  Red  Book,  and  again  in  1286  as  from  the  Close  Roll,  14  Edw.  II., 
M.  2  d.,  where,  however,  it  cannot  be  identified. 

k  2 


CXXX11 


RED  BOOK  OE  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS.  Where  printed. 


238 


252  d.1 


Quit-claim  of  Robert, 
Abbot  of  Roberts- 
bridge,  to  the  King 
and  his  heirs  of  one 
“  walla  cum  ferianda 
et  dicdelve,”  accord¬ 
ing  to  the  custom  of 
the  marsh,  within  cer¬ 
tain  boundaries,  in 
consideration  of  10/. 
sterling. 

Westrn.,  21  Nov., 
18  Edw.  I. 

Contemp.  Lat.2 


239 


252  b. 


Memorandum,3  that  on 
Tuesday,  the  morrow 
of  St.  Denys,  18  Edw. 
I.,  A.D.  1290,  all  the 
Jews  departed  from 
London,  under  the 
King’s  protection,  to 
convey  themselves  be¬ 
yond  seas. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


P.  1065. 


240 


241 


252  d. 
( rider ) 


Ordinance  respecting 
the  establishment  of 
the  Exchequer  at 
Dublin,  made  by  the 
Treasurer  and  Barons 
at  Westminster. 

30  Apr.,  [21]  Edw.  I. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


252  d.  Memorandum,  that  on 
(rider)  Monday  next,  after 
the  Feast  of  St. 
Michael,21  [Edw.  I.], 


P.  974. 


i  P.  976. 


1  Fo.  252  is  blank.  2  No  inrolinenf.  of  this  charter  can  be  found. 

2  Cf.  Pat.  Roll,  18  Edw.  1.,  M.  12.  Cf.  Close  Roll,  18  Edw.  I.,  M.  6. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


CXXXlll 


No. 


Folio. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


Where  printed. 


241- 

co/it. 


Alexander, of  London, 
clerk,  received  by  the 
hands  of  Sir  William 
de  Estdene,  treasurer 
of  Ireland,  the  orna¬ 
ments  herein  named 
which  belonged  to 
Stephen,  late  Arch¬ 
bishop  of  Tuam.1 

Con  temp.  Lat. 


242 


253 

(rider) 


Memorandum  of  the 
delivery  to  the  trea¬ 
surer  of  Ireland,  by  the 
treasurer  and  barons 
of  the  Exchequer  of 
England,  of  various 
rolls  and  other  writ¬ 


ings. 

30  Apr.,  20  Edw.  I.2 
Contemp.  Lat. 


P.  976. 


243 


253 


The  case  of  the  ward¬ 
ship  of  the  heirs  and 
lands  of  Geoffrey  de 
Lucy,  in  respect  of 
the  manor  of  Cattes- 
hull,  co.  Surrey,  the 
inheritance  of  Juliana 
de  Brok,  wife  of  the 
said  Geoffrey’s  an¬ 
cestor,  alleged  to  be 
held  of  the  King  by 
Ranulph  de  Brok, 
by  the  serjeantery  of 
the  ushership  of  the 
King’s  chamber,  and 
not  by  tenure  “in 
capite.”  n.d. 

Edw.  I.  Lat. 


P.  1013. 


1  Some  portions  of  this  and  the  preceding  entry  are  now  illegible  owing  to  an 
application  of  gall. 

2  Not  in  the  Calendar  of  Docts.,  Ireland. 


CXXX1V 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

244 

254- 
254  d. 

Ordinance  by  the  King 
and  council  for  the 
regulation  of  the  Ex¬ 
change  and  Mint. 
Cancelled,  with  a  note 
that  the  ordinance  in 
question  was  emended 
by  the  King  and  coun¬ 
cil,  and  is  so  entered 
on  a  subsequent  page. 

Westm.  29  March, 
28  Edw.  1. 

Contemp.  French. 
See  No.  248. 

Q.R.Memor. 
Commun. 
Pascli.,  28 
Edw.  I., 
rot.  27. 

245 

255  d. 
-256.1 

Pleas  before  the  King 
himself  and  his  coun¬ 
cil  in  his  Parliament 
held  at  York  after  the 
Feast  of  St.  Michael, 
21  Edw.  [I.],  between 
John,  King  of  Scot¬ 
land,  and  Magdulph, 
Earl  of  Fife. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Rot.  Pari.,  I.  112. 
Cf.  Rot.  Scotite, 
pp.  17,  18,  20. 

246 

256  d. 

Ordinance  for  the  new 
custom  of  wools,  wool- 
fells,  and  leather 
granted  to  the  King 
by  all  the  great  per¬ 
sons  of  the  realm,  and 
at  the  prayer  of  the 
commons  and  mer¬ 
chants  of  all  England. 

3  Edw.  J. 

Edw.  I.  French. 

Originalia, 

3  Edw.  I., 
rot.  15. 

Pat.,  3  Edw. 
I.,  M.  1. 

T.  of  R,  Pla¬ 
cita  Par- 
liamentaria, 
35  Edw.  I., 
M.  2  d. 

Pari.  Writs,  I.  2. 

247 

256  d. 
-257 

Charter  of  liberties 
granted  by  the  King 
to  the  wine  merchants 
of  the  Duchy  of  Aqui- 

Gascon  Roll, 
17  Edw.  III., 
M.  1. 

P.  1060. 

1  Fo.  255  is  blank. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


cxxxv 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

247- 

c.ont. 

taiue,  rendering  to 
the  King  and  his  heirs 
two  shillings  for  every 
cask  of  wine  landed 
by  them  within  the 
realm  of  England. 

Westm.,  30  Aug., 
30  Edw.  [I.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 

248 

259- 
259  d.1 

“  De  Moneta  ”  —  The 
amended  ordinance  of 
the  King  and  council 
of  29  Mar.,  28  Edw.  I., 
fixing  the  Exchange 
and  Mint  in  several 
places,  with  certain 
regulations  for  the 
same. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

See  No.  244. 

Q.  R.  Memor. 
Commun. 
Easter,  28 
Edw.  I.2 

P.  987. 

249 

Fos. 
259  d. 
-265 

Tractatus  Novce  Mo¬ 
neta. — A  dissertation 
upon  the  Mint  and 
Exchange,  apparently 
in  the  latter  part  of 
the  reign  of  Edward 
III.  14th  cent.  Lat. 

Cotton  MSS., 
Cleopatra, 
A.  16  (15th 
cent.). 

Pp.  991-1010. 

250 

265  d. 

Memorandum  that  dur¬ 
ing  the  vacancy  of  the 
see  of  Durham  by  the 
death  of  Bishop  Ri¬ 
chard  le  Pouere  the 
custody  of  the  manor 
of  Seton  next  Herte- 
pole  was  in  the  King’s 
hands;  with  a  further 
note  respecting  the 
consequences  of  this 
precedent. 

13th  cent.  Lat. 

P.  1029. 

1  Fos.  257  d.,  258,  and  258  d.  are  blank. 

2  Cf.  Pat.  28  Edw.  I.,  m.  20,  in  ced. 


CXXXV1 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

251 

266 

The  Statute  of  Rhu- 

& 

ddlan — Writ  to  the 

266  d. 

Treasurer  and  Ba¬ 
rons  for  the  Corpora 
Comitatuum  to  be  re- 

moved  out  of  the  Pipe 
Rolls,  and  to  be  en¬ 
tered  in  a  separate 
roll,  with  other  minute 

directions  on  the  same 
subject. 

Rothlan,  23  Mar., 
12  [Edw.  I.]. 

Edw.  II.  Lat. 


Parallel  MSS. 


252 


267  d.- 

268  d.1 


Memorandum  that  J ohn 
de  Sandale,  Chan¬ 
cellor  of  England,  has 
brought  here  now 
into  the  Exchequer, 
namely,  on  the  20th 
April,  8  Edw.  II.,  34 
Bulls  of  divers  Popes, 
which  he  says  he 
found  among  the  me¬ 
moranda  of  Master 
John  Fraunceys,  some¬ 
time  the  King’s  clerk, 
a  schedule  whereof 
follows. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


253 


269 


I 

| 


Memorandum  that 
Adam,  Bishop  of 
Hereford,  brought 
here  to  the  Exche¬ 
quer,  20  Feb.,  1  Edw. 
III.,  a  certain  Bull  of 
John  XXII.,  at  that 
time  Pope,  sealed 


Papal  Bulls, 
Public  Re¬ 
cord  Office. 


1  Fo.  267  is  blank. 


t 


Where  printed. 

Statutes  of  the 
Realm,  I.  69. 


P.  1042. 


P.  1047. 


TABLE  OE  CONTENTS. 


CXXXYT1 


No. 


253- 

cont. 


Folio. 


Description. 


with  a  leaden  seal, 
and  dated  6  kal. 


June,  A.P.  4. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


254 


269  d. 
-273 


Pleas  before  the  King’s 
council  at  Westmin¬ 
ster  in  a  month  of 
Michaelmas,  34  Edw. 
I.  The  case  of  the 
lands  of  Tyndale,  for¬ 
merly  the  possessions 
of  John  de  Balliol, 
late  King  of  Scotland, 
with  the  record  of  the 
case  of  the  manors  of 
Penreth  and  Soureby, 
cos.  Cumberland  and 
Westmoreland,  Mich. 
21  Edw.  I.,  likewise 
formerly  the  posses¬ 
sions  of  the  said  late 
King,  and  the  further 
proceedings  in  both 
cases  taken  in  a  Par¬ 
liament  at  Carlisle  in 
the  octaves  of  St. 
Hilary,  35  Edw.  I. 

Edw.  II.  French 
and  Lat. 


Parallel  MSS. 


T.  of  R.  Pla¬ 
cita  Par¬ 
liamentary, 
35  Edw.  I. 


255 


273  d. 
-274 


The  Bull  whereby  Pope 
Innocent  III.  confirms 
the  letters  of  King 
John  for  the  grant 
of  freedom  of  elec¬ 
tions  in  all  churches 
of  England,  as  well 
cathedral  as  conven¬ 
tual  ;  which  said  let- 


Papal  Bulls, 
Public  Re¬ 
cord  Office. 


Where  printed. 


,  Rot.  Pari.,  I.  112 
J  and  1 14  (in  part 
only). 

Cole’s  Documents, 
pp.  129-38. 


Fcedera,  1. 127. 1 
Potthast,  Reg. 
Pont.  4963. 


1  From  a  transcript,  and  not  from  the  original. 


CXXXVlll 


MED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

255- 

cont. 

ters  are  inserted  in 
the  Bull. 

Lateran,  3  kal.  Apr. 
anno  18.  [1215.] 

Edw.  II.  Lat. 

256 

274  d. 
-275 

The  Statute  of  York — 
Writ  to  the  Treasurer 
and  Barons  of  the 
Exchequer,  1  Dec.,  12 
Edw.  II.,  for  certain 
statutes  established  in 
the  Parliament  at 
York  to  be  observed, 
the  tenor  of  which 
statute  follows. 

Contemp.  Lat.  and 
French. 

Statutes  of  the 
Realm,  I.  117.1 

257 

275  d. 
-276 

Writ  to  the  same  for 
the  ancientsummonses 
sub  compendio  to  be 
innovated  in  order  that 
the  amerciaments  in¬ 
curred  by  the  subjects 
in  the  20th  year  of  Ed¬ 
ward  I.,  and  the  issues 
of  forfeitures  may  not 
be  exacted  by  pretext 
of  the  said  ancient 
summonses. 

York,  2  Feb.,  12 
Edw.  II. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

L.T.R.  Me¬ 
mor.  Brevia 
Hih,  12 
Edw.  II., 
rot.  85  d. 

Close  Roll, 
12  Edw.  II., 
M.  14. 

Foedera ,  II.  386. 

258 

276  d. 

The  Statute  established 
at  Lincoln  in  the  ninth 
year  of  King  Edward 
the  Second. 

Contemp.  French. 

Statutes  of  the 
Realm,  I.  174.1 

1  Not  collated  -with  this  Book. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


CXXX1X 


No. 

Folio. 

259 

277- 

277  d. 

Description. 


Process  of  the  manner 
of  allowing  divers  li¬ 
berties  of  the  Mag¬ 
nates  of  the  realm  in 
the  accounts  of  the 
sheriffs,  made  and  en¬ 
tered  in  the  form  of 
the  King’s  writ  to  the 
treasurer  and  barons, 
dated  at  Westminster 
17  Feb.,  14  Edw.  II., 
and  the  resolutions 
thereupon. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


260 


278 


Letters  Patent  of  King 
Edward  I.,  granting 
to  the  converted 
[Jews]  of  London 
202/.  Os.  4c/.,  to  be 
received  yearly  at 
the  Exchequer,  for 
the  sustenance  of  the 
keeper  of  the  house 
aforesaid,  of  two  chap¬ 
lains  and  one  clerk, 
during  their  lives, with 
abatement  of  a  pro¬ 
portionate  sum  on  the 
death  of  each  one  of 
them. 

Waverle,  16  Feh. 
20  Edw.  I. 

Edw.  II.  Lat. 


261 


279- 
286  d.2 


The  articles  ordained 
and  provided  for  the 
regulation  of  the 
King’s  Exchequer,  16 
Edw.  II.,  by  virtue 


Parallel  MSS. 


Q.R.  Memor. 
Pascb.  Re¬ 
corda,  1 4 

Edw.  II.,1 
rot.  112  d. 


Where  printed. 
J.  970. 


Pat.,  20 
Edw.  I., 
M.  19. 

L.  T.  R.  Me¬ 
mor.  Com- 
mun.  Pasch., 
20  Edw.  I., 
rot.  14  d. 


Q.R.  Memor. 
Brevia  Trim, 
16  Edw.  II.,3 
rot.  37  d. 


Pp.  848-907. 


1  See  also  L.T.R.  Memor.  Corumun.  Trin.,  18  Edw.  I.,  and  Hil.,  20  Edw.  I.,  and 
Pipe  Roll,  Norfolk,  20  Edw.  I, 

2  Fo.  278  d.  is  blank. 

3  The  writ  only  inrolled.  A  translation  of  the  Ordinances  is  in  MS.  Askmol, 
1147. 


cxl 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

261- 

cont. 

of  the  King’s  writ  to 
the  Treasurer  and  Ba¬ 
rons  of  the  Exchequer 
inclosing  a  roll  of  the 
said  ordinances. 

Contemp.  Lat.  and 
French. 

262 

287- 

290 

The  ordinance  for  the 
regulation  of  the 
King’s  Exchequer,  17 
Edward  II.,  by  vir¬ 
tue  of  the  King’s  writ 
to  the  same,  enclosing 
the  said  ordinance. 

Contemp.  Lat.  and 
French. 

Tower  Misc. 
Rolls,  Bdle. 
15,  No.  23. 
Q.  R.Memor. 
Brevia 
Pascli.,  17 
Edw.  II.,1 
rot.  5. 

Pp.  908-929. 

263 

290- 

297 

The  ordinances  for  the 
same  purpose,  19  Ed¬ 
ward  II.,  by  virtue  of 
a  like  writ  enclosing 
the  same. 

Contemp.  Lat.  and 
French. 

[Q.R.  Memor. 
Brevia 

Trin.,  19 
Edw.  II.1] 

Pp.  930-969. 

264 

297  d. 

Ordinance  made  by  vir¬ 
tue  of  the  King’s  writ, 
dated  20  April,  29 
Edw.  III.,  for  ac¬ 
counts  no  longer  to 
be  rendered  by  attor¬ 
ney  in  the  case  of  the 
sheriffs  and  other  great 
accountants. 

Contemp.  Lat.  and 
French. 

L.  T.  R.  Me¬ 
mor.  Hil. 
Brevia,  29 
Edw.  III.,1 
rot.  34  d. 

P.  845. 

265 

297  d. 
-298 

The  tenor  of  the  King’s 
writ  under  the  Great 
Seal  in  the  matter  of 
the  ordinance  for  re¬ 
storing  to  the  fol¬ 
lowers  of  Thomas,  late 

Q.R.  Memor., 
Brevia  Hil., 
1  Edw.  III., 
rot.  67  d. 

P.  1030. 

1  The  writ  only. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


cxli 


No. 

1 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

265- 

cont. 

Earl  of  Lancaster, 
their  lands  and  offices. 

Westm.,  1  Mar.,  1 
Edw.  III. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

266 

298  d. 

Memorandum  concern¬ 
ing  the  appointment  of 
a  supplementary  ba¬ 
ron  to  officiate  in  the 
Exchequer. 

15th  cent.  Lat. 

Close  Roll, 
48  Hen. 
III.,  M.  10. 

P.  846. 

267 

309  d.1 

The  oath  of  the  Cham¬ 
berlain  of  the  Exche- 

— 

— 

quer. 

16th  cent.  Engl. 
See  No.  31. 

268 

314  2 

Charter  of  John  de 
Warenne,  Earl  of 
Surrey,  of  the  castle 
and  town  of  Reygate, 
and  other  castles, 
towns,  and  manors  in 
the  counties  of  Surrey 
and  Sussex,  and  in 
Wales,  granted  to  the 
King  and  his  heirs. 

Westm.,  14  May, 
19  Edw.  [II.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Close  Roll, 
19  Edw.  II., 
M.  3  d. 

269 

314- 
314  d. 

Quit-claim  by  the  same 
to  the  Kin"  of  his 
castles,  manors,  towns, 
lands,  and  tenements, 
co.  York,  and  also  of 
the  manors  and  towns 
of  Staunford  and 
Grantham,  co.  Lin¬ 
coln. 

Westm.,  7  May, 
19  Edw.  [II.] 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Close  Roll, 
19  Edw. II., 
M.  3  d. 

'  Fos.  299  to  309  are  blank. 


2  Fos.  310  to  313  <1.  are  blank. 


cxlii 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

270 

314  d. 
-315 

Charter  of  Edmund, 
Earl  of  Arundel, 
whereby  he  binds 
himself  to  assign  to 
the  King  an  equal 
value  out  of  his  lands 
and  tenements  until 
the  King  shall  have 
possession  of  the 
castles  of  Conynges- 
burgh  and  Sandale, 
and  other  lands  and 
tenements,  co.  York, 
which  should  revert 
to  him  on  the  death 
of  John  de  Warenne, 
Earl  of  Surrey,  to 
whom  he  had  granted 
the  same,  but  in  which 
a  certain  Matilda  de 
Peireford  claims  to 
have  a  life  interest  if 
she  survive  the  said 
Earl  of  Surrey.. 

Westminster,  19 

May,  19  Edw.  JI. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Close  Boll, 
19  Edw.  II., 
M.  3d. 

271 

315  d. 

Quit-claim  by  Adam  de 
Brom,  clerk,  to  King 
Edward  II.  of  a  cer¬ 
tain  messuage  and 
tenements  in  the 
parish  of  St.  Mary  in 
Oxford,  and  of  a  mes¬ 
suage  in  the  suburbs 
of  the  same  town 
called  “  la  Perillouse- 
halle.” 

St.  Edmund’s, Wed¬ 
nesday  in  the  feast 
of  the  Circumcision, 
19  Edw.  II. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Close  Roll, 
19  Edw.  II., 
M.  7  d. 

TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


cxliii 


No.  j 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

1 

272  i 

315  d. 

Grant  by  the  prior  and 
convent  of  Eye  to 
Edward  the  King  of 
the  advowsons  of  the 
churches  of  Thorne- 
don  and  Melles,  co. 
Suffolk. 

Eye,  in  Chapter, 
12  Jan.  1325. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Close  Roll, 
19  Edw.  II., 
M.  15  d. 

273 

316 

Grant  by  Hugh  de 
Louthre,  knight,  to 
Edward  II.  of  his 
castle  and  the  moiety 
of  the  town  of  Sta- 
worth  with  the  ap¬ 
purtenances. 

Kenelworth,  vigil 
of  St.  George,  1326. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Close  Roll, 
19  Edw.  II., 
M.  8  d. 

274 

316 

1  The  same  for  the  same, 
appointing  an  attor¬ 
ney  for  delivery  of 
seisin  of  the  above 
premises. 

Kenyl worth,  the  mor¬ 
row  of  St.  George, 
1326. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

275 

316  d. 

Grant  by  Joan  de  Dry- 
by,  lady  of  Tateshale, 
to  Edward  II.  of  her 
property  in  the  “  Tol- 
bothe  ”  of  the  town 
of  Lenne,  and  the  cus¬ 
toms  of  the  water 
there,  and  all  her  tene- 

Close  Roll, 
19  Edw.  II., 
M.  8  d. 

1 

1 

1  Only  the  former  of  these  two  deeds  appears  to  be  inrolled.  There  is  a  note  in 
the  Close  Roll,  to  the  effect  that  Hugh  came  afterwards  into  the  Chancery  at  West¬ 
minster,  arid  acknowledged  this  deed  there. 


cxliv 


RED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No.  I  Folio. 


275- 

cont. 


276 


277 


316  6. 


316  d. 

-317 


278 


317  6. 


Description. 


Parallel  MSS. 


ments  in  the  same 
town  and  suburbs. 

[19]  Edw.  II.  Lat. 

1  The  same  for  the  same, 
appointing  an  attor¬ 
ney  for  delivery  of 
seisin  of  the  above 
premises. 

Palm  Sunday,  1325. 

Contemp.  Lat. 


Certificate  by  the 
mayor,  &c.,  of  Lenne 
that  the  said  dame 
Joan’s  attorney,  Eus¬ 
tace  Bozoun,  came  to 
the  Tolbothe  there 
on  the  8th  of  April 
and  delivered  seisin 
of  the  above  property 
and  tenements  to 
Master  John  How¬ 
ard  and  John  de 
Harsyke,  assigned  by 
the  King’s  letters 
patent  to  receive  the 
same. 

Lenne,  12  Apr., 
19  Edw.  II. 

Contemp.  French. 


Deed  of  assignment  by 
William  de  la  Pole 
the  elder,  knight,  to 
Edward  the  King  of 
1,000  marcs  yearly 
rent  out  of  all  his 


Where  printed. 


L.  T.  R.  Me¬ 
mor.  Com- 
mun.  Hil., 
4 1  Edw. 
III.,  rot. 
11. 


1  This  deed  is  not  inrolled  on  the  Close  Roll.  There  is  a  note  that  it  remained  in 
the  custody  of  the  Keeper  of  the  Rolls  of  the  Chancery,  together  probably  with  the 
document  that  follows. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


Cxi 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

278- 

cont. 

lands  and  tenements 
during  the  life  of 
Katherine  his  wife. 

Westm.,  1  Mar., 
29  Edw.  [III.] 

Edw.  III.  French. 

Originalia,  29 
Edw.  III., 
rot.  14. 

279 

317(1. 

Deed  of  the  same  to 
same  of  200L  of  like 
rent  in  fee  simple. 
Same  date. 

Edw.  III.  French. 

Originalia,  29 
Edw.  Ill  , 
rot.  14. 

Pipe  Roll,  32 
Edw.  III., 
Ebor.1 

280 

317  d. 
-318  d. 

Further  indenture  be¬ 
tween  the  same  parties 
respecting  the  above 
charges  in  the  event 
of  the  tvidowhood  of 
Dame  Katherine  de 
la  Pole. 

Westm.,  4  Mar., 
29  Edw.  [HI.] 

Edw.  III.  French. 

Ancient 
Deeds,  A. 
355. 

Originalia,  29 
Edw.  III., 
rot,  14. 

281 

1  318  d. 

!  -319 

Release  by  William  de 
la  Pole  the  elder  to 
the  same  King  of  all 
debts  and  surplusages 
due  to  him  on  his  ac¬ 
counts. 

Westm.,  20  Oct., 
29  Edw.  [III.] 

Edw.  III.  French. 

Originalia, 

29  Edw. 
III.,  rot. 
15. 

282 

319 

Release  by  the  same  to 
the  same  of  the 
manors  of  Grynge- 

Originalia,  29 
Edw.  III., 
rot.  15. 

1  Cf.  L.  T.  R.  Memor.  Pasch.  Recoid,  30  Edw.  III.,  rot.  0. 


63377. 


1 


BED  BOOK  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


cxlvi 


No. 

F  olio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

282- 

cont. 

leye  ami  Wheteleye, 
co.  Notts.  Same  date. 
Edw.  III.  French. 

28.3 

319- 
319  d. 

Release  by  the  same 
to  the  same  of  his 
title  to  the  manor  of 
Brustwyk  fn  Holder- 
nesse  and  other  manors 
and  towns.  Same  date. 

Edw.  III.  French. 

Originalia,  29 
Edw.  III., 
rot.  15. 

—i 

i 

2^4 

319  d. 

Release  by  Thomas  and 
Edward,  the  sons  of 
William  de  la  Pole, 
to  the  same  king,  of 
their  title  in  the 
manor  of  Kayngham 
in  Holdernesse.  Same 
date. 

Edw.  III.  French. 

Ancient 
Deeds,  A. 
350. 

CloseRoll,29 
Edw.  III., 
M.  26  d. 

Originalia, 29 
Edw.  III., 
rot.  15. 

■ 

285 

320 

Release  by  Edmund  de 
la  Pole  to  the  same 
of  all  his  title  in  the 
above  manor  in  con¬ 
sideration  of  the  re¬ 
lease  of  the  former 
assignment  of  200  m. 
rent  made  to  the  King 
by  William  de  la  Pole. 

Westm.,  23  Oct., 
30  Edw.  [III.] 

Edw.  Ill,  French. 

Close  Roll, 
32  Edw. 
III.,  M.  7. 

2S6 

320  d. 

Release  by  Katherine, 
relict  of  William  de 
la  Pole  the  elder,  to 
the  same,  of  all  her 
dower  and  other  in¬ 
terest  in  the  manor 
of  Brustwyk  in  Hol¬ 
dernesse,  and  other 
manors  and  towns  in 

Close  Roll, 
40  Edw. 
III., M.  Id. 
Originalia,  40 
Edw.  III., 
rot.  23. 

t 

TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


cxlvii 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

286- 

cont. 

co.  York,  as  well  as 
in  the  manors  of 
Gryngele  and  Whete- 
leye,  co.  Notts. 

Kingston-on-Hull, 
Monday  after  the 
feast  of  the  Virgin 
Mary.  40  Edw.  III. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

287 

321 

Release  by  Hugh  de 
Calmlegh,  knight,  to 
Richard  the  King  of 
all  his  claims  for  ser¬ 
vice  in  the  wars  dur¬ 
ing  the  late  reign,  ex¬ 
cept  the  payments  due 
to  him  for  the  custody 
of  the  town  of  Brest 
and  the  profits  of  the 
islands  of  Guernsey, 
&c.,  and  the  annuity 
of  200  marcs  granted 
to  him  at  the  Ex¬ 
chequer. 

London,  20  May, 

3  Ric.  II. 

Contemp.  Lat.1 

288 

321  d. 

Release  by  John  Symme 
of  Wrytelmersslie,  co. 
Kent,  to  Richard  the 
King  of  certain  land 
and  wood  inclosed  by 
the  late  King  in  his 
park  of  Eltham. 

Tuesday  before  the 
feast  of  St.  Nicho¬ 
las,  12  Ric.  II. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

1  No  inrolments  of  this  and  the  two  following  charters  have  been  found. 


cxlviii  RED  BOOR  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER. 


No. 

Folio. 

Description. 

Parallel  MSS. 

Where  printed. 

289 

321  d. 

Release  by  John  Ri- 
cardes  of  the  same 
place  to  the  same  king 
of  land  and  wood  like¬ 
wise  imparked.  Same 
date. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

• 

290 

i 

322 

Grant  by  the  abbot 
and  convent  of  Chert- 
sey  to  Henry  the  King 
of  the  manor  of  Retris¬ 
ham  and  advowson  of 
the  church  of  Ewelle, 
co.  Surrey,  reserving 
a  yearly  pension  of 
20s.,  payable  out  of 
the  said  church. 

Chertsey,  in  the 
Chapter,  23  Mar.,  3 
Hen.  Y. 

Contemp.  Lat. 

Close  Roll, 

3  Hen.  V., 
M.  21  d. 

291 

[322d.] 

Transcript  of  a  certain 
record  inrolled  in  the 
Memoranda  of  the 
Exchequer  concern¬ 
ing  the  privileges  of 
the  officers  of  that 
court. 

York,  1G  Feb.  [11 
Edw.  HI.] 

15th  cent.  Lat. 

Q.  R.  Memor., 
and  L.  T.  R. 
Memor. 

Hil.  Com- 
inun.,  1 1 
Edw.  III. 

P.  831. 

Y ear  Book  (  Rolls) , 
14  Edw.  III.,  p. 
xxii. 

292 

Fly  i 
leaves. 

A  further  table  of  re¬ 
ferences  to  some  of 
the  most  notable  con¬ 
tents  of  this  book,  in 
a  late  hand. 

16th  cent.  Lat. 

1  The  pagination  ends  on  fo.  322,  the  last  mentioned  entry  being  succeeded  by 
three  blank  folios. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


63377.  Wt.  6366. 


▲ 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


DE  PRIMO  SCUTAGIO  REGIS  HENRICI 

SECUNDI.1 


Fo.  47.  Anno  Domini  MCCXXX.,  anno  videlicet  xv°  regni  A.D.  1230. 
Regis  Henrici,  filii  Regis  Johannis — qui  fuit  frater 
insuperabilis  imperii  Regis  Ricardi,  qui  fuit  filius 
Regis  Henrici,  cujus  mater  Matildis  Imperatrix,  cujus 
mater  Matildis  Regina  Anglorum,  cujus  mater  Margarita 
Regina  Scotorum,  cujus  pater  Eadwardus,  cujus  pater 
Eadmundus  ferreum  latus,  cujus  pater  iEdelred,  cujus 
pater  Eadgarus  pacificus,  cujus  pater  Eadmundus,  cujus 
pater  Eadwardus  senior,  cujus  pater  nobilis  Alvredus, 
qui  fuit  filius  Eadwlfi  Regis,  qui  fuit  filius  Egbrichti, 
cujus  pater  Alcmundus,  cujus  pater  Effa,  cujus  pater 
Eppa,  cujus  pater  Ingels,  cujus  frater  fuit  famosissimus 
Rex  Ine,  nomine,  quorum  pater  Keonred,  qui  fuit 
filius  Ceowald,  qui  fuit  Cutha,  qui  fuit  Cuthwinum,2 
qui  fuit  Chelulin,  qui  fuit  Chenric,  qui  fuit  Creoda, 
qui  fuit  Ceordic,  qui  fuit  EI  esa,  qui  fuit  Ecla,  qui  fuit 
Genuis.  Iste  fuit  caput  gentis  suae  a  quo  et  tota  illa  gens 
nomen  accepit.  Hujus  pater  fuit  Wig,  cujus  pater  fuit 
Frewine,  cujus  pater  fuit  Freodegar,  cujus  pater  Brand 
cujus  pater  Bealdaes,  cujus  pater  Woden,  qui  fuit  Fre- 
dewalcl,  qui  fuit  Freolof,  qui  fuit  Fredewlf,  qui  fuit 
Fringoldwlf,  qui  fuit  Geta,  qui  fuit  Geatwa,  qui  fuit 
Beu,  qui  fuit  Sceldwa,  qui  fuit  Heremod,  qui  fuit  Iter- 
mod,  qui  fuit  Bathka,  qui  fuit  Wala,  qui  fuit  Beadwid, 


1  This  heading  is  taken  from  the 
table  of  contents  at  the  beginning 
and  end  of  the  book. 


2  Sic  in  MS. 


A  2 


4 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 1230. 


Dialogus 
de  Scac- 
cario. 


qui  fuit  Sem,  cujus  pater  Noe,  qui  fuit  Lamech,  qui 
fuit  Mathussale,  qui  fuit  Enoch,  qui  fuit  Jareth,  qui 
fuit  Malaleel,  qui  fuit  Cainan,  qui  fuit  Enos,  qui  fuit 
Seth,  qui  fuit  Adam,  filii  Dei  vivi — sub  Huberto  de 
Burgo  comite  Kancue,  Anglige  justiciario  ;  Thesaurario 
Scaccarii  W[altero]  Kaerleon[ensi] 1  Episcopo  ;  Regis  prae¬ 
dicti  Cancellario  Radulpho  Cicestrensi  Episcopo  ;  residens 
ego  Alexander  Archidiaconus  Salopesbirise  apud  West- 
monasterium  in  Regis  Scaccario,  antiquorum  regum  An- 
glite  rotulos  revolvens  annales,  ad  hoc  solicitius  animum 
direxi,  ut  per  regna  Angliae  debita  Regi  servitia  mili¬ 
taria  quatenus  potui  plenissime  percunctarer ;  cum 
neque  Nigellus,  quondam  Elyensis  episcopus,  Regis 
Henrici  Primi  Thesaurarius,  vir  quidem  in  scientia 
Scaccarii  plenius  instructus,  nec  ejusdem  successor 
officii,  Ricardus  Londoniensis  Episcopus,  licet  in  sui 
libelli  tractatu  superius  multa  de  negotiis  Scaccarii 
degereret,  nec  vir  valde  peritus  in  eisdem,  Willelmus 
Elyensis,  sub  cujus  regimine  temporibus  Regis  Johan- 
nis,  multociens  ibidem  militavi,2  super  hiis  certum  ali¬ 
quid  diffinirent;  illud  commune  verbum  in  ore  sin¬ 
gulorum  tunc  temporis  divulgatum  fatuum  reputans 
et  mirabile,  quod  in  regni  conquisitione  Dux  Nor- 
mannorum,  Rex  Willelmus,  servitia  xxxijm  militum 
infeodavit ;  cum  nec  super  hoc  posteris  suis  regibus 
Anglorum  rotulos  reliquerit,  nec  annalia  sua  tem¬ 
poribus  meis  a  quibusdam  visa  sunt  ;  rotulo  qui¬ 
dem  Wintonise,  sive  Domusdey,  vel  Libro  Hidarum, 
excepto,  quo  quidem  hidas  totius  Anglise  earundemque 
tenentes  anno  regni  sui  xiiij°3  per  totius  regni  comi¬ 
tatus  recensens  satis  compendiose  conclusit.  Ignorasse 
quidem  hgec  servitia  militaria  Regis  ejusdem  postmo- 
dum  successores  subsequentium  argumento  non  imme¬ 
rito  potuit  dubitare.  Quia  cum  Rex  Henricus  filius 


1  Rectius  Carleolensi. 

2  Cf.  Dialogus  de  Scaccario,  I.  3. 

3  xxiiij0  in  MS.,  but  the  first  x  is 


partially  erased.  In  any  case  this 
does  not  agree  with  the  accepted 
date,  1086. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


5 


Imperatricis,  Duci  Saxonige  filiam  suam  Matildem,  A.D.  1230. 
nuptui  traderet,  a  quolibet  sui  regni  milite  marcam 
unam  in  subsidium  nuptiarum  exegit,  publico 1  prrnci- 
piens  edicto  quod  quilibet  prelatus  et  baro  quot  milites 
de  eo  tenerent  in  capite  publicis 2  snis  instrumentis 
significarent ;  quce  quidem  instrumenta  per  singulos 
comitatus  distincta  sub  pnefato  Willelmo  Elyensi  in 
unum  recollegi  volumen.  Momina  quidem  cartas  suas 
mittentium,  numerum  etiam  feodorum,  et  pecuniam 
prcetaxatam  solutam,  reperies  inferius  in  rotulo  regni 
Regis  ejusdem  xiiij  sub  illo  titulo,3  De  Auxilio 
ad  maritandam  primogenitam  filius  Regis.  Nomina 
quidem  illorum  qui  cartas  tunc  tempore  non  miserunt 
reperies  inferius  in  rotulo  regni  sui  xviij0,  sub  titulo 3 
illo  De  hiis  qui  cartas  non  miserunt.  Ut  igitur 
quatenus  hujus  rei  potuit  investigari  veritas,  singulis 
innotesceret ;  incipiens  a  tempore  regis  Henrici  filii 
imperatricis  scutagia  singula  successorum  suorum  tem¬ 
poribus  assisa,  usque  ad  annum  xvm,im  regis  Henrici, 
filii  regis  Johannis,4  huic  meo  libello  inferius  descripsi. 
Temporibus  enim  regis  Henrici  primi,  licet  ejusdem 
paucos  inspeximus  annales,  nec  inspexi  vel  audivi  fuisse 
scutagia  assisa.  Diligens  igitur  investigator  et  hujus 
libelli  mei  lector,  singulis  inspectis  inferius  scutagiis  ad¬ 
vertat,  qui,  qualia  et  quot  debeant  servicia  militaria  ; 
qui  quidem  serj antarias  ;  defectusque  unius  annalis  sup¬ 
pleat  ex  alio,  attendens  quod  militantes  in  exercitu  non 
solverunt  scutagia  tempore  quo  militabant.  Immo 
milites  remanentes,  redimentes  suam  scutagii  sui  re- 
manentiam.  Potuitque  contingere  multociens,  et  con¬ 
tigit,  quod  qui  hoc  anno  remanerent  ab  exercitu  alio 
quidem  anno  militarent,  et  e  converso.  Solverentque 
hoc  anno  scutagia,  qui  non  alio  anno  solverent,  et  e 
converso.  Suppleat  igitur  defectum  meum  quicunque 


4  The  latest  in  this  MS.  is  for  the 
13  John. 


1  Puplico  in  MS. 

2  Pupplicis  in  MS. 

3  Tytulo  in  MS. 


6 


•LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


•A. D.  1230.  voluerit  et  ignoscat1  si  pauciora  clebito  Regi  servitio 
perstrinxerim,2  cum  in  hoc  solo  mea  fuerit  intentio 
ut  ex  rotulis  veritatem  elicerem  et  non  velatu  repro¬ 
borum. 


A.D.  1156. 
Fo.  47  d. 

t\ 


f/  6^/y 


Primum  scutagium  Regis  Henrici  Secundi. 

Primum  omnium  scutagiorum  prout  rumor  ex  rotulis 
ad  me  devenit  assisum  fuisse  regno  Regis  Henrici 
filii  Imperatricis  secundo^  ut  inferius  in  suo  reperies 
annali.  Fuitque  scutagium  pro  exercitu  Walliae 3  super 
prelatos  tantum  qui  ad  militaria  servitia  tenentur  as¬ 
sisum,  videlicet,  pro  quolibet  feodo  militis  xx  solidos. 


A.D.  QUO  ROTULO  SECUNDUM  EJUS  SCUTAGIUM  ET  PROPTER 
M  58-0 ‘  QUOD  ASSISUM  REPERIES. 


fe»  “  —jf 


Secundum  ejus  scutagium  assisum  pro  eodem  exercitu 
Wallige 3  reperies  in  rotulo  anni  quinti  Regis  ejusdem  in¬ 
ferius.  Fuitque  assisum  ad  duas  marcas  pro  quolibet 
feodo,  non  solum  super  prelatos,  verum  tam  super  ipsos 
quam  super  milites  suos,  secundum  numerum  feodorum, 
qui  tenuerunt4  de  Rege  in  capite,  necnon  et  super 
residuos  milites  singulorum  comitatuum  in  communi. 
Intitulaturque  illud  scutagium  De  Dono  ea  quidem, 
ut  credo,  ratione  quod  non  solum  prelati  qui  tenentur 
ad  servitia  militaria  sed  etiam  alii,  Abbates,  utpote,  de 
Bello  et  de  Salopesbiria  et  alii  tunc  temporis  dede¬ 
runt  auxilium.  Et  nota  quod  dona  prelatorum  in 
summa  pecuniae  convenienti  feodis  quae  tenent  de  Rege 
in  capite/  ita  quod  ij  m arcae  computentur  pro  feodo 
uno  ;  dona  tamen  militum  cujuslibet  prelati  sufficiunt 


1  ingnoscat  in  MS. 

3  perstrinxserim  in  MS. 

3  Sec  Preface. 

4  Sic  in  MS.  A  marginal  gloss 


temp.  Edward  I.  reads  de  feodis 
q\uce']  tenentur  in  R  \_egno~]  in  capite. 

5  Sufficiunt  is  probably  to  be  un¬ 
derstood  here. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


7 


in  ea  summa  quod  pro  quolibet  feodo  possent  computari 
ij  marcse  ut,  verbi  gratia,  Abbas  Sancti  Augustini  Can- 
tuariae,  qui  tenet  de  Rege  xv  feoda  militum,  reddit 
ibi  compotum  cxlvj  librarum  et  j  marem  de  dono ;  milites 
ejusdem  de  xx  libris  de  dono  ;  quae  summa  manifeste 
convenit  de  numero  feodorum,  computatis  ad  feodum  ij 
marcis.  Ceteris  vero  militibus  comitatus  reddentibus 
compotum  in  summa  communi,  quod  totum  reperies 
inferius  in  annali  vto,  credo  quidem  omnes  prelatos  in 
communi  aliquid  de  eo  tempore  dedisse  Regi,  distribu¬ 
tionesque  inter  se  fecisse  quod  habere  potestis  ex  inae¬ 
quali  summa  quampluribus  imposita.1  Fuisse  quidem 
scutagium  ex  hoc  arguo,  licet  donum  intitulatum,  quod 
vicecomites  2  Wigorniae  et  Warwikae  reddunt  ibi  compo¬ 
tum  de  scutagio  militum  Episcopi  Wigornensis  et  com¬ 
itis  Warwikae  ;  propter  quod  inter  alia  scutagia  istud 
donum  pro  scutagio  apposui. 

QUO  ROTULO  TERTIUM  EJUSDEM  SCUTAGIUM  ET  PROPTER 
QUOD  ASSISUM  REPERIES. 

Tertium  ejusdem  Regis  scutagium  reperies  inferius 
assisum  in  ejusdem  annali  anni  vijmi.  Fuitque  assisum 
ad  ij  rnarcas  pro  exercitu  Tholosae,  scilicet,  quando  idem 
Rex  Henricus  obsedit  Tholosam,1  et  fuit  commune  scu¬ 
tagium  impositum  tam  prelatis  quam  caeteris  baronibus, 
ut  patet  ex  rotulo  vij°. 

QUO  ROTULO  QUARTUM  EJUSDEM  REGIS  SCUTAGIUM 
ET  PROPTER  QUOD  ASSISUM  REPERIES. 

Quartum  ejusdem  Regis  scutagium  fuit  impositum 
pro  eodem  exercitu,  non  solum  prelatis  sed  universis 
militibus,  anno  ejusdem  viij0.  Fuit  autem  assisum  ad 
marcam  unam  pro  quolibet  feodo,  ut  patet  ex  rotulo 
viij0. 


1  See  Preface. 


2  Written  over  an  erasure  in  MS. 


A.D. 

1158-9. 


A.D. 

1160-1. 


<7 


A.D. 

1161-2. 


8 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  QUO  ROTULO  AUXILIUM  AD  MARITANDAM  PRIMOGENITAM 

116f-8’  filiam  Regis  Duci  Saxonle  reperies. 


1171-2. 


Quinta  quidem  exactio,  non  nomine  scutagii,  sed 
nomine  auxilii  ad  maritandam  filiam  Regis,  fuit  im¬ 
posita  prelatis  et  militibus  universis  anno  regni  Regis 
ejusdem  xiij0.  Fnitque  ad  marcam  unam  a  singulis 
feodis  assisum  auxilium.  Solutum  quidem  et  anno¬ 
tatum  in  anno  xiiij0,  ut  patet  ex  rotulo  xiiij0. 1  Apposui 
quidem  istud  auxilium  in  numero  scutagiorum,  quoniam 
cognita 2  summa  marcarum  cognoscitur  3  per  consequens 
et  numerus  militum. 


QUO  ROTULO  SEXTUM  EJUSDEM  SCUTAGIUM  ET  PROPTER 
QUOD  ASSISUM  REPERIES. 


Sextum  quidem  ejusdem  scutagium  fuit  assisum  anno 
regni  sui  xvij°.  Solutum  quidem  et  annotatum  in  ro¬ 
tulo  xviij0.  Fuitque  tam  prelatis  quam  caeteris  baroni¬ 
bus  impositum  ad  xx  solidos  pro  quolibet  feodo,  prout 
patet  inferius  in  rotulo  xviij0,  et  pro  exercitu  Hiberniae  ; 
quo  quidem  rotulo  supplentur  nomina  illorum  qui  cartas 
non  miserunt  anno  xiij0,  prout  superius  tactum  est.1 


A.D.  Quo  ROTULO  SEPTIMUM  EJUSDEM  SCUTAGIUM  ET 

1186-7.  PROPTER  QUOD  ASSISUM  REPERIES. 

Septimum  quidem  ejusdem  Regis  scutagium  fuit  im¬ 
positum  tam  prelatis  quam  caeteris  ba,ronibus  anno  regni 
Regis  ejusdem  xxxij0 ;  solutum  quidem  et  annotatum 
anno  xxxiij0.  Fuitque  assisum  ad  xx  solidos  pro  quo¬ 
libet  feodo,  et  pro  exercitu  Galweyae.  Et  nota  quod 
quandocumque  assidentur  scutagia,  licet  eodem  anno 
solvantur,  annotantur  tamen  in  annali  anni  sequentis.1 


1  See  Preface. 

2  Congnita  in  MS. 


3  Congnoscitur  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


9 


Hujus  Regis  temporibus  non  invenies  plura  scutagia  A.D. 
assisa,  licet  in  xj  ejus  anno  forsitan  inferius  inveneris  1164_5- 
auxilium  pro  servientibus  inveniendis  in  exercitu  Wallise. 

Quod  quidem  auxilium  in  numero  scutagiorum  nolui 
apponere,  quoniam  probata  summa  auxilii  propter  hoc 
non  probatur  numerus  militum  vel  serjantorum.1 

Diem  autem  clausit  Rex  extremum  post  rotulum  a.D.  H89. 
anni  regni  sui  xxxmum  iiijtum  completum,  propter  quod 
intitulatur2  in  eodem,  Rotulus  regni  Regis  Htnrici 
xxxus  iiijm  et  ejus  ultimus.  Successit  eidem  Rex  illus¬ 
tris  Rex  Ricardus,  ejusdem  filius,  cujus  scutagia  suis 
temporibus  assisa  inferius  reperies  annotata. 

A.D. 

Introitus  ad  scutagia  Regis  Ricardi.  (r  fo  ^ 

Fo.  48.  /'f° 

Primum  invicti  Regis  Ricardi  reperies  scutagium 
inferius  annotatum  rotulo  Regis  ejusdem  secundo,  tam 
super  prelatos  quam  reliquos  barones  assisum.  Fuitque 
scutagium  Wallim  impositum  ad  x  solidos  pro  quolibet 
feodo  militis. 

Quo  ROTULO  SECUNDUM  EJUS  SCUTAGIUM  ET  PROPTER  A.D. 

QUOD  ASSISUM  REPERIES.  ^ m“fi 

Secundum  ejusdem  Regis  scutagium  reperies  inferius 
annotatum  in  rotulo  Regis  ejusdem  sexto,3  communiter 
prelatis  et  baronibus  impositum.  Fuitque  assisum  ad 
xx  solidos  pro  quolibet  feodo  militis,  ad  redemptionem 
ejusdem  Regis  illustris  ;  qui  cum  reversus  a  Jeroso- 
limis,  subjugatis  sibi  regionibus  et  terris  et  civitatibus 
diversis,  effugatis  exinde  Sarracenis,  prout  in  Gestis  Gesta 
ejusdem  plenius  continetur,  clam  per  Alemaniam  in  Ricardi. 
regnum  suum  volens  reverti,  occupatis  jam  terris  suis  et 
invasis  a  Rege  Francorum  Philippo  in  Normannia,  captus 


1  See  Preface.  3  Scutagium  ad  redemptionem 

2  intytulatur  in  MS.  domini  Regis. — T.  R. 


10 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.T).  est  a  Limpolldo  Duce  Austriae,  detentusque  apud  Wene 
anno  Domini  M0C°XC°II0.  Redemptus  postraodum  ab 
Anglis  pro  cm  libris  sterlingorum. 


A.D. 

H96-7. 


QUO  ROTULO  TERTIUM  ET  QUARTUM  EJUSDEM  SCUTAGIUM 
ET  PROPTER  QUOD  ASSISA  REPERIES. 


Tertium  ejusdem  et  quartum  1  scutagium  reperies  in¬ 
ferius  annotata  in  rotulo  Regis  ejusdem_viij0,  assisa 
quidem  anno  vij°  et  viij0,  pro  exercitu  Normanniae. 
Fuitque  utrumque  assisum  -  ad  xx  solidos  pro  feodo 
militis.  Inveniesque  illa  duo  sub  uno  contextu  compre¬ 
hensa,  quia  nomina  militum  qui  defuerunt  in  primo  sup- 
A.D.  1199.  plentur  ex  secundo.  Complevit  autem  idem  Rex  decimum 
ratiocinii  sui  rotulum,  sicque  diem  clausit  extremum  ; 
sepultus  apud  Fontem  Ebroldi,  cujus  animae  propitietur 
Deus. 


Introitus  ad  scutagia  assisa  tempore  Regis 

Johannis. 


A.D. 

1100  1  Tfl  i  1 

(/  fS-Mf 


Regis  Johannis,  fratris  illustris  Regis  Ricardi  tem¬ 
poribus  xj  reperies  assisa  scutagia.  Primum  quidem 
*  ejusdem  scutagium  reperies  assisum  rotulo  Regis  ejus¬ 
dem  primo.  Fuitque  assisum  ad  ij  marcas  pro  quolibet 
feodo  militis,  impositum  tam  prelatis  quam  caeteris 
baronibus  et  intitulatum 2  De  primo  scutagio  post 
Coronationem  Regis.3 


A.D. 


QUO  ROTULO  SECUNDUM  REGIS  HUJUS  SCUTAGIUM 
ET  PROPTER  QUOD  ASSISUM  REPERIES. 

Secundum  ejusdem  Regis  scutagium  annotatum  re¬ 
peries  in  rotulo  Regis  ejusdem  tertio.  Fuitque  assisum 


1  These  are  entitled  the  second 
and  third  scutages  in  the  Rolls ; 
the  first  being  the  scutage  of  Wales, 
and  the  scutage  for  the  King's  ran¬ 
dom.  bearing  no  number.  , 


2  intytulatum  in  MS. 

De  primo  scutagio  post  primam 
Coronationem  Regis  Johannis. — 
C.  R. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


11 


ad  ij  marcas  pro  quolibet  feodo  militis  pro  exercitu 
Normanniae,  prelatis  cseterisque  baronibus  impositum. 
Unde  mixtim  reperies  in  eodem  annotatum  De  finibus 
et  scutagio  militum  ne  transfretent d 

QUO  ROTULO  TERTIUM  REGIS  EJUSDEM  SCUTAGIUM  ET 
PROPTER  QUOD  ASSISUM  REPERTES. 

Tertium  ejusdem  Regis  scutagium  annotatum  reperies 
in  rotulo  Regis  ejusdem  iiij0.  Fuitque  assisum  ad 
ij  marcas,  prelatis  et  caeteris  baronibus  impositum  pro 
consimili  exercitu  Normanniae. 

Quo  ROTULO  QUARTUM  EJUSDEM  SCUTAGIUM  ET  PROPTER 
QUOD  ASSISUM  REPERIES. 

Quartum  ejusdem  Regis  scutagium  annotatum  reperies 
in  rotulo  Regis  ejusdem  v°.  Fuitque  assisum  ad  ij 
marcas,  prelatis  et  caeteris  [baronibus] 2  impositum  pro 
consimili  exercitu  Normanniae. 

Quo  rotulo3  .... 

Quintum  ejusdem  scutagium  annotatum  reperies  in 
rotulo  Regis  ejusdem  vj°.  Fuitque  assisum  ad  ij  marcas,4 
prelatis  et  caeteris  baronibus  impositum  pro  consimili 
exercitu  Normanniae. 

Sextum  ejusdem  scutagium  annotatum  reperies  in 
rotulo  Regis  ejusdem  vij°.  Fuitque  assisum  ad  ij 
marcas,  prelatis  et  caeteris  baronibus  impositum  pro 
consimili  exercitu  Normanniae. 

Septimum  ejusdem  Regis  scutagium  annotatum  re¬ 
peries  in  rotulo  Regis  ejusdem  viij0.  Fuitque  assisum 
ad  xx  solidos,  prelatis  et  caeteris  baronibus  impositum 
pro  consimili  exercitu  Normanniae. 


1  De  finibus  et  scutagiis  militum 
or  De  finibus  militum  ne  transfre¬ 
tent. — T.  R. 


2  Omitted  in  MS. 

3  Sic  in  MS. 

4  Ad  ij  marcas  et  dimidiam. — T.  R. 


A.D. 

1201-2. 


A.D. 

^282= 


A.D. 

/<202-3 


A.D. 


A.D.  . 

In-VT-T. 


12 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

fote 


A.D. 


Octavum  ejusdem  Regis  scutagium  annotatum  repe- 
ries  in  rotulo  Regis  ejusdem  xii°.  Fuitque  assisum  ad 
V  ij  marcas  pro  passagio  Regis  in  Hiberniam,  prelatis  et 
cseteris  baronibus  impositum. 

Nonum  ejusdem  Regis  scutagium  annotatum  reperies 
in  rotulo  Regis  ejusdem  xiij0.  Fuitque  assisum  ad  ij 
/^/<3  "  / 1// marcas,  pro  exercitu  Wallise,  prelatis  et  cseteris  baroni¬ 
bus  impositum. 

Decimum  ejusdem  Regis  scutagium  annotatum  re¬ 
peries  in  rotulo  eodem  xiij0.  Fuitque  assisum  ad  xx 
solidos,  pro  exercitu  Scotise,  prelatis  et  cseteris  baronibus 
impositum. 


A.D. 

5 

nn- 1 


Undecimum  ejusdem  Regis  scutagium  annotatum  re¬ 
peries  in  rotulo  Regis  ejusdem  xvj°.  Fuitque  assisum 
ad  iij  marcas  pro  exercitu  Pictavise.  Hoc  scutagium 
nec  prelatis  nec  baronibus  potuit  imponi  eo  tempore. 
Propter  illud  enim  divertentes  se  fere  omnes  barones  a 
fidelitate  Regis  ejusdem,  introducto  in  Angliam  Ludo¬ 
vico  primogenito  Regis  Francorum  Philippi,  capta 
Londonia  submissisque  sibi  aliis  civitatibus,  eidem  se 
A.D.  1216.  subjecerunt.  Sicque  Rex  Johannes  vitam  finiens  in 
gwerra,  regni  sui  anno  xviij0  apud  Castrum  de  Neuwerke 
diem  clausit  extremum ;  sepultus  apud  Wigorniam  in 
ecclesia  civitatis  ejusdem  cathedrali. 


(  13  ) 


LI  BEK  KUBEUS  DE  SCACCAKIO. 


DE  EEODIS  MILITUM  COMITATUUM 

ANGELE.1 


ANNUS  SECUNDUS  REGIS  HENRICI  FILII  Fo.  49. 

IMPERATRICIS. 

Anno  secundo  Regis  Henrici  fuit  assisum  scutagium  a.d.  nr>6. 

WALLLE,  ET  FUIT  AD  XX  SOLIDOS,  ET  TANTUM 
SUPER  PRELATOS  ANGLIC. 

Kent. 

Abbas  Sancti  Augustini,  xvL — xv  milites. 

Suthsexa. 

Episcopus  Cicestrensis,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Capellaria  de  Boseham,  vij£.  xs. — vij  milites  et 
dimidium. 

WlRECESTRESIRA. 

Episcopus  Wigornensis,  xE.,  cum  perdonis  ibidem 
annotatis.  Sed  idem  Episcopus  calumniatur  quod  non 
debet  nisi  1  milites — xl  milites.2 
Abbas  de  Evesham,  cs. — v  milites. 


1  This  heading  is  taken  from  the 
table  of  contents  at  the  beginning 
and  end  of  the  book. 

2  This  entry  is  very  obscure.  In 
the  Roll  the  Ilishop  pays  -10/.  I  Os. 
into  the  Treasury,  and  19/.  10s.  are 
paidoned  him.  Presumably  there¬ 
fore  he  was  Quit,  but  the  Roll 
leaves  this  blank.  In  the  “Ab¬ 


stracts  of  the  Pipe  Rolls,”  fo.  18G 
of  the  MS.,  the  acquittance  is  given 
(probably  from  the  Chancellor’s 
Roll,  now  lost)  with  the  note,  Sed 
Episcopus,  ut  dicit ,  non  habet  nisi 
l  milites.  Summa  militum  integra 
lx ;  calumpnialur  x,  thus  clearly 
explaining  the  incident. 


14 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  1156.  Abbas  Persone,  lxs.,  sed  dicit  quod  non  debet  nisi 
ij  milites — iij  milites. 

Abbas  Westmonasterii,  lxxvZ.  vjs.  viijd,  cum  per- 
donis  ibidem  annotatis,  sed  calumpniatur  lx  milites,  et 
dicit  quod  non  debet  illos — lxxv  milites. 

SUHAMTESIRA. 

Episcopus  Wintoniensis,  cum  perdonis  ibidem  anno¬ 
tatis,  hd. — lx  milites. 

Abbas  de  Hida,  xxl,  cum  perdonis  ibi  annotatis — 
xx  milites. 

WlLTESIRA. 

Episcopus  Sarrisbiriensis,  xxxijZ.,  cum  perdonis  ibi 
annotatis — xxxij  milites. 

Abbas  Malmesbirise,  lxs. — iij  milites. 

Abbatissa  Wiltonioe,  cs. — v  milites. 

SURREIA. 

Abbas  Certeseyae,  lxs. — iij  milites. 

Abbas  Westmonasterii,  vis.  viijd — tertiam  partem 
militis. 

Huntindonesira. 

Abbas  Rameseyae,  iiijZ. — iiij  milites. 

Londres.  Middelsexa. 

Episcopus  Londoniensis,  xxl. — xx  milites. 

Hertfordsira. 

Abbas  Sancti  Albani,  vjZ.,  cum  perdonis  ibi  annotatis 
— vj  milites. 

Norhamtesira. 

Abbas  de  Burgo,  Ixl. — lx  milites. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


15 


BERKSIRA.  -A.D.  1156. 

Abbas  Abbendonise,  xxxl.,  cum  perclonis  ibi  annotatis 
— xxx  milites. 

Lincolnesira. 

Episcopus  Lincolniensis,  1  xl. — lx  milites. 

Eboracsira. 

Archiepiscopus  Eboracensis,  vij£. — vij  milites. 

Episcopus  Dunholm  ensis,  xl. — x  milites. 

Staffordstra 

Episcopus  Cestrensis,  xvl. — xv  milites. 

SUMERSETE. 

Episcopus  Battoniensis,  xxl. — xx  milites. 

Abbas  Glastonim,  lx£.,  cum  perdonis  ibi  annotatis — 
lx  milites. 

Abbas  Muchelneise,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Dorsete. 

Abbas  de  Cerne,  Ixs. — iij  milites. 

Abbatissa  Sancti  Edwardi,  xl. — x  milites. 

Abbas  Middeltonise,  xK — ij  milites. 

Abbas  Sireburnise,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Abbas  de  Abbodesbiria.  xxs. — j  militem. 

Devonesira. 

Episcopus  Exoniensis,  xviji.  xs.,  cum  perdonis  ibi 
annotatis — xvij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Abbas  Tavistokise,  xl.  xs. — x  milites  et  dimidium. 


16 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  1156. 


A.D. 

1158-9. 


Gloucestresira. 

Abbas  Winchecumbse,  xl s. — ij  milites. 

Herford.  in  Wallia. 
Episcopus  Herfordiensis,  xvl. — xv  milites. 


ANNUS  QUINTUS  REGIS  EJUSDEM  HIC 

INCIPIT 

Kent. 

Abbas  Sancti  Augustini  cxlvj£.  jm.  de  dono. 

Milites  ejusdem,  xx£. 

Milites  Comitatus,  \l. 

SUTHSEXA 

Abbas  de  Bello,  xE.  de  dono. 

Milites  Comitatus,  ixZ.  vjs.  viijE. 

Salopsira. 

Abbas  Salopite,  cs.  de  dono. 

Milites  Comitatus,  xxxviijZ. 

Lincolnesira. 

Episcopus,  dm.  de  dono. 

Milites  ejus,  iiijW. 

Milites  Comitatus,  cclxm. 

Essexa. 

Episcopus  Londoniensis,  ccm.  de  dono. 

Milites  ejus,  xlm. 

Milites  Comitatus,  iiijxxm. 

Yicecomes,  xxxm.  de  militibus  Roberti  de  Helion. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARTO. 


17 


Hertfordsira. 

Abbas  Sancti  Albani,  cm.  de  dono. 
Milites  ejusdem,  xijm. 

Milites  Comitatus,  xxijm. 


Norfolc.  Suffolc. 

Episcopus,  ccm.  de  dono. 

Milites  ejusdem,  liij?.  jm.  de  dono. 

Abbas  Sancti  Edmundi,  cxxxiijZ.  vjs.  viijcZ. 

Milites  ejusdem,  liijZ.  jm. 

Abbas  de  Hulmo,  xxl.  de  dono. 

Milites  ejusdem,  iiijZ. 

Milites  Comitatus,  xlviijZ  jm. 

Vicecomes,  xxiijm.  de  militibus  Petri  de  Vallibus. 


NoRHUMBR  ELANDE. 

Vicecomes,  iiijxxxvjZ  de  dono  militum  et  theynorum. 

Norhamtesira. 

Abbas  de  Burgo,  cm.  de  dono. 

Milites  ejusdem,  iiijW.  Et  in  perdonis  Waltero  de 
Chesney,  ijm. ;  Stephano  Turonensi,  vs.  iiijeZ. 

Vicecomes,  xlijm.  de  dono  militum  Comitatus.  In 
perdonis  Michaeli  Belet,  viijm. ;  Boberto  filio  Swein,  xls. 


Bukingham.  Bedeford. 

Vicecomes,  cm.  de  dono  militum.  In  perdonis  Cancel¬ 
lario,  de  terra  Stephani,  ijm. ;  Gervasio  filio  Hugonis,  ijm. ; 
Willelmo  Cade,  vjm. ;  Osberto  Martel,  xls. ;  Ricardo 
Gobion,  ijm. ;  Monialibus  de  Chikesand,  xs. 

63377.  B 


A.D. 

1158-9. 


Eo.  49  d. 


18 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  SUMERSETE. 

1158-9. 

Episcopus  Bathoniensis,  dm.  de  dono. 

Milites  ejusdem,  xlm.  In  perdonis  Roberto  Pukerel, 
ijm.  vs.  iiijd. ;  Willelmo  Hose  et  fratri  suo,  xxxvijs.  vd. 
In  dominico  Regis  quod  fuit  Roberti  filii  Martini,  xvj.s. 

Vicecomes,  c xvl.  vjs.  viijd  de  militibus  Comitatus. 
In  perdonis  Willelmo  de  Sancto  Claro,  xxZ. ;  Nicliolao 
filio  Herding,  iijm.  in  Devonia. 

Abbas  Glastonise  liij£.  vjs.  viijd  In  perdonis 
Roberto  de  Gindesores,  jm. ;  Roberto  Puk[er]el,  ijm. ; 
Roberto  filio  Martini,  xm.  Et  xvj£.  remanent  super 
terram  Willelmi  Malet. 


W IRECESTRESIRA. 

Vicecomes,  ccm.  de  dono  Episcopi. 

Idem,  iiijxx£.  de  scutagio  militum  ejusdem  Episcopi, 
scilicet,  de  lx  militibus.  In  thesauro  totum  liberavit 
usque  ad  xiiij A  jm.  cum  perdonis,  sed  Episcopus  calump- 
niatur  x  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Kaerdif,  ijm.  de  scutagio. 

Vicecomes,  xE.  de  dono  Abbatis  de  Evesham. 

Idem  de  vj£.  jm.  de  scutagio  militum  ejusdem. 

Idem  de  cs.  de  dono  Abbatis  Persone. 

Warwika. 

Willelmus  Giffard  reddit  compotum  de  scutagio  mili¬ 
tum  Comitis  Warwikse,  scilicet,  de  lxiij  militibus.  In 
perdonis  Comitissse  de  Warwika,  xxm. ;  Galfrido  Abbati, 
ijm. ;  Galfrido  Marmion,  vijs.  vjd ;  et  eidem,  ijm.  et 
dimidiam ;  Galfrido  Salvagio,  jm. ;  Galfrido  Marmion, 

] 1  Willelmo  de  Chesney,  vjm.;  Willelmo  de  Hastinges, 
vjm. ;  Waltero  Comin,  ijm. ;  Simone  Coco,  ijm. ;  Monachis 
Pipewelle,  xxvs.  ;  Clerico  de  Bileslega,  xld 


1  Sic  in  MS.  ;  jm. — T.  R. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


19 


Gloucestresira. 

Vicecomes,  iiijxxL  de  dono  Abbatis  Gloucestriae. 

Idem,  c s.  de  dono  Abbatis  Winchelcombae. 

Idem,  iiijm.  de  dono  militum  ejusdem. 

Idem,  1  m.  de  dono  militum  Comitatus. 

Staffordsira. 

Vicecomes,  cm.  de  dono  Episcopi  Cestrensis. 

Idem,  xxxm.  de  dono  militum  ejusdem. 

Eboracsira. 

Vicecomes,  dm.  de  dono  Archiepiscopi. 

Idem,  ixZ.  vjs.  viijd.  de  dono  militum  ejusdem. 

Idem,  ciiijW.  iiij  1  jm.  de  dono  militum  Comitatus. 
In  perdonis  in  Pevereltorp,  xv.s. ;  Ricardo  Lovetot,  viij£. 
jm.  ;  Filio  Ranulfi  Vicecomitis,  iiijm.  ;  Nigello  de 
Lovetot,  iiijm. 

Idem,  de  cccxxxiij^.  vjs.  viijE.  de  dono  Episcopi  Dun- 
holmensis. 

Idem,  de  xxm.  de  dono  militum  ejusdem. 

OXONEFORDSIRA. 

Vicecomes  de  xxxL  jm.  de  dono  militum  Comitatus. 
Idem,  xE.  de  dono  Abbatis  Abbendoniae. 

Idem,  xE.  de  dono  militum  ejusdem. 

W ILTESIRA. 

Vicecomes,  xxm.  de  dono  Abbatissae  Wiltoniae. 

Idem,  xm.  de  dono  militum  ejus. 


1  Sic  in  MS.  ;  c  et  quater  x.r  et  iiij  1.  et  xiijs.  et  iiijd. — T.  R. 

B  2 


A.D 

1158- 


20 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1158-9. 


Fo.  50. 


Devonesira. 

Yicecomes,  c l.  de  dono  Episcopi  Exoniensis. 

Idem,  xxiij£.  vjs.  viijd.  de  dono  militum  ejus.  In 
perdonis  Johanni  Marescallo,  iiijm. ;  Radulfo  filio  Step- 
hani,  iijm. 


Dorsete. 

Yicecomes,  xm.  de  dono  militum  Comitatus. 

Idem,  xm.  de  dono  Abbatis  Middeltoniae. 

Idem,  iiijm.  de  dono  militum  ejusdem. 

Idem,  c s.  de  dono  Abbatis  Abbodesbirise. 

Idem,  ijm.  de  dono  militum  ejusdem. 

Idem,  iiijm.  de  dono  militum  Abbatis  Sireburniae. 
Idem,  vjm.  de  dono  militum  Abbatis  Cerne. 


SUDHANTONA. 

Yicecomes,  cccxxxiij£.  vjs.  viijd  de  dono  Episcopi 
Wintoniensis. 

Idem,  iiij^?.  de  dono  militum  ejusdem. 

Idem,  c l.  de  dono  Abbatis  de  Hida. 

Idem,  xlm.  de  dono  militum  ejusdem. 

Idem,  xm.  de  Abbatissa  Romesyae. 

Idem,  xm.  de  dono  Abbatissae  Wintoniae. 

Idem,  xlm.  de  dono  militum  Willelmi  de  Romara.  In 
perdonis  Ricardo  de  Campville,  viijm.  ;  Wakelino  de 
Dim,  jm. 


Herford  in  Wallia. 

Yicecomes,  iiijxxxiij?.  vjs.  viijd  de  dono  militum 
Comitatus.  In  perdonis  Cancellario  ijm. ;  Ricardo  Tale- 
bot.  iiijm. ;  Henrico  lilio  Geroldi  ijm. ;  Willelmo  lilio 
Badewini,  xls. ;  Comiti  Reginaldo  iiijm.  ;  Militibus 
Templi,  iiijs. ;  Fratribus  Hospitalis  Jerusalem,  ijs.  viijd 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


21 


Notingham  et  Derby. 

Vicecomes,  clxiiijm.  de  dono  militum  de  Notinghamsira. 
In  per  donis  Hugoni  de  Hanslape,  viijm. ;  Radulfo  de 
Belmes,  ijm. ;  Roberto  de  Tenarchebray,  ijm. ;  Willelmo 
fratri  Reg[is],  vjm. ;  Hugoni  Priori,  vjm.  ;  Galfrido 
Abbati,  iiijm. ;  Roberto  filio  Yicecomitis,  vijm. ;  Simoni 
filio  Ricardi,  ijm.  ;  Waltero  Bec,  ij  m.  ;  Philippo  de 
Kimbe,  jm. ;  David  de  Romenel,  ijm. ;  Fratribus  Hospi¬ 
talis,  ijm. ;  Monachis  de  Gerondone,  jm. 

Terra  Comitis  de  Ferrariis. 

Terra  Comitis  de  Ferrariis  computatur  post  Surreiam. 
Ibi  Robertus  de  Pirario  reddit  compotum  de  cvj£. 
xiijs.  iiij  d.  de  dono  militum  Comitis  de  Ferrariis. 

Cantebrige. 

Vicecomes,  xx£.  de  dono  militum  Comitatus. 

Idem,  xxm.  de  dono  Abbatis  Torneyse. 

Huntingdonesira. 

Yicecomes,  xB.  de  dono  Abbatis  Rameseyse. 

Idem  reddit  compotum  de  dono  militum  ejusdem.  In 
thesauro,  iiij  A  xs.  In  perdonis  Hugoni  de  Bello  Campo, 
xvjs.  viijp.  Et  summa,  viijm.  Quietus  est.1 

Idem,  xxm.  de  dono  militum  Nigelli  de  Lovetot. 

Surreia. 

Yicecomes,  xB.  de  dono  Abbatis  Certeseyae. 

Idem,  iiij l.  de  dono  militum  ejusdem. 


A.D. 

1158-9. 


1  Sic  in  MS. ;  summa  viijm. ;  et  quietus  est.—  H.  and  T.  R. 


22 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1158-9. 


A.D. 
1160-1. 
Fo.  50  d. 


Idem,  vm.  de  dono  militum  Comitatus. 

Canonici  Mertonoe,1  xvs. 

Nota  quod  in  hoc  comitatu  non  inveniuntur  alia 
dona  vel  scutagia  aliqua. 


ANNUS  VIIUS  REGIS  HENRICI  SECUNDI. 

Kent. 

Archiepiscopus,  iiijW.  per  Willelmum  filium  Aldelini 
— lx  milites. 

Abbas  de  Sancto  Augustino,  xxl. — xv  milites. 

Daniel  de  Crevequer,  xlm. — xx  milites. 

Robertus  filius  Guillelmi,  jm. — dimidium  militem. 
Robertus  filius  Radulfi,  jm. — dimidium  militem. 
Heredes  Godwini,  xls. — -j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Essexa.  Hertford. 

Vicecomes  [reddit  compotum]  de  cvj7.  de  militibus. 

Norfolcia.  Suthfolcia. 

Episcopus  Norwicensis,  liijh  vjs.  viijd — xl  milites. 
Abbas  Sancti  Edmundi,  1  i ij  Z.  vjs.  viijd. — xl  milites. 
Abbas  de  Hulmo,  iiijZ. — iij  milites. 

Godefridus  de  JBures,  iiijm. — ij  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Snescesham,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Alanus  de  Snescesham,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Willelmus  Blundus,  vij?n. — iij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Ricardus  Mala  Musca,  ijm.  -  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Snecesham,  xxs.  —  iij  partes  [militis]. 
Ricardus  filius  Cicillise,  ijm. — j  militem. 


1  This  entry  is  added  in  a  later  hand.  It  is  not  found  on  the  Pipe 
Roll  or  in  the  Hargrave  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


23 


WlLTESIRA. 

Episcopus  Sarrisbiriensis — lxiiijm. — xxxij  milites. 
Abbas  Malmesbirise,  iiiji.  —  iij  milites. 

Abbatissa  Wiltonise,  xm. — v  milites. 

Elias  Giffard,  xxvm. — xij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Robertus  filius  Herberti,  vm. — ij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Willelmus  de  Dantesie,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Grenestede,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Ricardus  Esturmi,  jm. — dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Mara,  jm. — dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  filius  Herber ti,  vm. — ij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Jordanus  de  Sanford  vetulus,  [ij]  m.1 
Walterus  Mobert,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Pourtone,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Galfridus  Esturmi,  jm. — dimidium  militem. 

Bukingham.  Bedeford. 

Hamo  filius  Meinfelin,  xxl. — xv  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Sirintone,  iiijm. — ij  milites. 

Hunfridus  Visus  Lupi,  jm. — dimidium  militem. 
Gilbertus  de  Bolebec,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Nigelli,  xls. — j  [militem]  et  dimidium. 
Honor  de  Wardone,  xxijm. — xj  milites. 

Berkesira. 

Abbas  de  Abbendonia,  xU. — xxx  milites. 

Willelmus  Achard,  xm. — v  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Windesores,  xlm. — xx  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Siffregast,  ijm. — j  militem. 

SUTHSEXA. 

Episcopus  Cicestrensis,  iiijm. — ij  milites. 

Normannus  de  Normanville  et  Robertus  Peverel, 
ijm. — j  militem. 

1  Blank  in  MS. ;  supplied  from  T.  R. 


A.D. 

1160-1. 


24 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1160-1. 


Lucas  Pincerna,  vjm. — iij  milites. 

Willelmus  Flemeng,  xm. — v  milites. 

Robertas  de  Precariis  dimidiam  marcam — quartam 
[partem].1 

Capellaria  de  Boseham,  xl. — vij  [milites]  et  dimi¬ 
dium. 

Lincolnesira. 

Episcopus  Lincolniensis.2 

Hereford  in  Wallia. 

Episcopus  Herfordiensis,  xl. — vij  [milites]  et  dimi¬ 
dium. 

Osbertus  filius  Hugonis,  xxl. — xv  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Cormeiles,  xm. — v  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Salceto,  xls. — j  [militem]  et  dimidium. 
Adam  de  Port,  xl. — vij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 

Ricardus  de  Champdos,  xl. — vij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Willelmus  filius  Roberti,  jm. — dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  Fores tarius,  jm. — dimidium  militem. 

Robertas  de  Basclierville,  j m. ;  sed  dedit  vadium  ad 
disrationandum  quod  non  tenet  dimidium  militem  nec 
per  servitium  militare. 

Gloucestresira. 

Abbas  Westmonasterii,  xxl. — xv  milites. 

Abbas  Winchelcumboe,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Berkelai,  vm. — ij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Advocatus  de  Betune,  xm. — v  milites.8 
Robertus  de  Estropes,  vm. — ij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Turstanus  filius  Simonis,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Hastinges  de  Etone,  vjm. — iij  milites. 


1  Rectius  Praeriis.  This  entry 
is  not  found  in  the  Pipe  Roll  of  the 
7th  year,  but  the  same  sum  is  ac 
counted  for  in  the  Stli  year. 

2  Sic  in  MS.  Episcopus  Lin¬ 


colniensis  reddit  compotum  de  quater 

xj-l.  de  militibus  suis _ T.  R. 

3  See  Preface.  The  original  entry 
in  the  Pipe  Roll  is  mutilated. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


25 


OXONEFORDSIRA. 

Manasser  Arsic,  xxm. — x  milites. 

Reginaldus  de  Sancto  Valerico  cm. — 1  milites. 


Deyonesira. 

Episcopus  Exoniensis,  xxxvm. — xvij  [milites]  et 
dimidium. 

Robertus  filius  Galfridi,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Pirro,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Reginaldus  de  Valle  Torta,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Orvalle  vm. — ij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 

Abbas  de  Tavistokia,  xxl. — xv.  milites. 

Notingeham.  Dereby. 

Honor  Piperelli,  IviijZ.  xiijs.  iiij d.  Et  in  perdonis 
Petro  de  Goldintone,  vj£.  xiij.s.  iiij  (A ;  Hugoni  Priori 
iiij  A  xiijs.  iiijd. ;  Roberto  filio  Ranulfi,  iiij  ;  Galfrido 
Abbati,  iiijm. ;  Waltero  Bec,  ijm. ;  Radulfo  Medico, 
ijm. ;  Monachis  de  Gerendone,  jm. ;  Fratribus  Hospitalis, 
iiijm. ;  Davidi  Marscallo,  ijm. ;  Ph[ilippo]  de  Cumbe, 
ijm. 

Radulfus  de  Bello  Fago,  vm. — ij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 

Radulfus  Hanselin,  xxl. — xv  milites. 

Robertus  de  Cauz,  xxl. — xv  milites. 

N  ORHUMBERLANDE. 

Comes  Gospatrik,  xijm. — vj  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Merlay,  xl. — vij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 

Norhamtesira. 

Abbas  de  Burgo,  xxl. — xv  milites. 

Robertus  Foliot,  xvj  l. — xij  milites. 

Alanus  de  Stafford  dimidiam  marcam. — j  quartam. 


A.D. 

1160-1. 


Fo.  51. 


26 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SC  ACC  ARIO. 


A.D. 

1160-1. 


Robertus  filius  Albr[ici],  j m. — dimidium  militem. 
Robertus  de  Chokes,  xijZ. — ix  milites. 

Fulco  de  Lisuris,  xm. — v  milites. 

Eboracsira. 

Archi episcopus  Eboracensis,  xiiijm. — vij  milites. 
Episcopus  Dunholmensis,  xxm. — x  milites. 

Honor  de  Tikehulle,  iiijxN.  Et  in  perdonis  Ricardo 
de  Lovetot,  vij£.  vjs.  viijd.  ;  Alexandro  filio  Toky,  iiijm. ; 
Roberto  filio  Ranulfi,  iiijm. ;  Herveio  Marscallo,  ijm. ; 
Monachis  Rempfordiae  iiijs.  vijd. 

Staffordsira. 

Robertus  de  StafFordia,  xj£. — viij  milites  et  iiijt3™ 
[partem]. 

SURREYE. 

Abbas  Certeske,  iiij l. — iij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Munteberge,  jm. — dimidium  militem. 
Robertus  filius  Sampsonis,  jm. — dimidium  militem. 

Cantebrige.  Huntingdonesira. 

Abbas  Rameseiae,  vijm. — iij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Nigellus  de  Lovetot,  xxm. — x  milites. 

Stephanus  de  Scalariis,  xxviijm. — xiiij  milites. 

Adam  de  Sumery,  ijm.- — j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Waterville,  xm. — v  milites. 

Warwiila.  Leycestria. 

Prior  Coventrise,  xxm. — x  milites. 

Dorsete. 

Abbas  Middeltoniae,  iiijm. — ij  milites. 

Abbas  de  Cerne,  vjm. — iij  milites. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


27 


Abbas  de  Abbodesbiria,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Abbatissa  de  Sancto  Edwardo,  xiiijm. — vij  milites. 
Robertus  de  Glastonia,  xm. — v  milites. 

Abbas  Sireburniae,  iiijm. — ij  milites. 

Bernardus  Poleyn,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Reinfridi,  iijm. — j  [militem]  et  di¬ 
midium. 

Rogerus  de  Arundel,  xl l. — xxx  milites. 

Willelmus  Bolet,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Estbery,  ijm. — j  milites. 

SOMERSETE. 

Episcopus  Bathoniensis,  xxvj^.  xiij.s.  iiijd — xx 
milites. 

Johannes  de  Erlega,  vm. — ij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Nicholaus  filius  Herding,  vm. — ij  [milites]  et  dimi¬ 
dium. 

Hawis  [de  Romara],1  vm. — ij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Rogerus  Brito,  xxl. — xv  milites. 

Petrus  de  Bechiotone,  iiijm. — ij  milites. 

Ricardus  filius  Guillelmi,  xxxijm. — xvj  milites. 
Johannes  filius  Hamonis,  xiiijm. — vij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Bello  Campo,  xxxiiijm. — xvij  milites. 
Ricardus  de  Monte  Acuto,  xxm. — x  milites. 

Wandrille  de  Corcellis,  xxm. — x  milites. 

Rogerus  filius  Hugonis,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Monde  ville,  iijm. — j  [militem]  et  dimi¬ 
dium. 

Rogerus  de  Baalun,  xxijm. — xj  milites. 

W IRECESTRESIRA. 

Abbas  Westmonasterii,  xxl.,  item  vm. — xvij  [milites] 
et  dimidium. 


A.D. 

•  1160-1. 


Fo.  51  (1. 


1  Blank  in  MS.  ;  supplied  from  T.  K. 


28 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1160-1. 


A.D. 

1161-2. 


Abbas  Evesham,  vm. — ij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Abbas  de  Persora,  ijm. — -j  militem. 

Johannes  Marscallus,  xxs.— iij  partes  [militis]. 

SUTHAMTESIRA. 

Episcopus  Wintoniensis,  lxxvZ.  xvs.  iijd. 

Abbas  de  Hida,  xlm. — xx  milites. 

Robertus  de  Ponte  Arche,  xm. — v  milites. 

Galfridus  filius  Petri,  jm. — dimidium  militem. 
Johannes  de  Gisors,  vm. — ij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Hamo  de  Cornebec,1  vm. — ij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Rogerus  Aliz,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Hala,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Praeres,  ijm. — j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Rogeri,  jm. — dimidium  militem. 
Mathseus  de  Potaria,  vm. — ij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 


ANNUS  VIIIUS  REGIS  HENRICI  SECUNDI. 

Kent. 

Abbas  Sancti  Augustini,  xl. 

Daniel  de  Crevequor,  viij£. 

Eboracsira. 

Archiepiscopus  Eboracensis.2 

Ranulfus  filius  Galteri,  jm ;  et  in  perdono  Henrico 
de  Oyli,  jm. 

Episcopus  Dunholmensis,  jm. 

Willelmus  Fossard,  xijZ. 

Willelmus  de  Percy,  xj l.  vjs.  viijd. 


1  Rectius  Thomas  de  Turnebuces. 
— T.  R. 

2  Sic  in  MS.  Idem  Vicecomes 
reddit  compotum  de  scutagio  Archi 
episcopi  Eboracetisis.  In  thesauro 


Iviij s.  et  viijd. — T.  R.  The  sum 
is  not  brought  to  account  in  the 
Roll,  but  in  the  Abstract  at  fo. 
191  d.  of  the  MS.  it  is  given  as 
Ixviijs.  viijd. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


29 


Robertus  de  Ros,  ijm. 

Alexander  filius  Geroldi,  xl.s. 

Willelmus  Paganellus,  yij7. 

Robertus  de  Gant,  vm. 

Bemardus  de  Bailol,  xxl. 

W IRECESTRESIRA. 

Johannes  Marscallus,  xxs. 

Gloucestresira. 

Abbas  VVestmonasterii,  xxl. 

Northfolc.  Suthfolc. 

Episcopus  Norwicensis,  xxvj£.  xiijs.  iiijcZ. 

Abbas  de  Hulmo,  iijm. 

Willelmus  de  Wurmegay,  xl. 

Hubertus  de  Rya,  xxl. 

Willelmus  Blundus,  vij£. 

Albericus  de  Danmartin,  jm. 

Manasserus  de  Danmartin,  jm. 

Ricardus  de  Kenetwelle,  xxs. 

Radulfus  filius  Ribaud  dimidiam  marcam. 

Coletherde 1 2  dimidiam  marcam. 

Essexa.  Hertford. 

Abbas  Westmonasterii,  xxl. 

Abbas  Sancti  Albani,  iiijZ. 

Comes  Albericus,  xxxjm.  Quia,  in  thesauro,  xvj£. 
vjs.  viijc£ ;  in  perdonis  Pagano  Yicecomiti,  iiijm. ;  et 
Ricardo  de  Campville,  xxxiijs.  iiijd3 

Comes  Galfridus,  xxiij£.  vjs.  viijcZ.  Quia,  in  thesauro, 
xxij£.  jm. ;  et  in  perdono  Johanni  Marscallo,  jm. 
Willelmus  filius  Roberti,  vj£.  et  jm. 

Girard  de  Limosie,  xxvm. 


1  Rectius  Colecherche. 

2  The  Abstract  at  fo.  190  d.  of  the 

MS.  gives  the  uuraber  of  knights, 


in  addition  to  the  sums  paid  in 
these  counties,  in  a  marginal  note. 


A.D. 

1161-2. 


Fo.  52. 


30 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1161-2. 


Ricardus  de  Reimes,  ijm.  et  dimidiam. 

Gralent  de  Tany,  ijm. 

Albanus  de  Heyrun,  jm. 

Episcopatus  Londonise,  xiij?.  xW,  ;i  fuit  in  manu  Regis. 
Quia,  in  perdonis  Radulpho  Medico,  xiiijs.  iijd. ;  et  Wil- 
lelmo  Hasteng,  iijs.  vijcZ. 

Warwika.  Leycestresira. 
Archiepiscopus  Eboracensis,  xxxiiijs.  viijd. 

Prior  Coventrise,  xm.  Quia,  in  perdonis  Willelmo 
de  Hastinges,  ijm.  et  dimidiam  ;  et  Willelmo  de  Bello 
Campo  dimidiam  marcam  ;  et  in  thesauro,  vijm. 

Rogerus  de  Munbray,  lxxiijs.  iiij  d.  Item,  inferius,  jm. 
Ricardus  de  Riveres,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Henricus  de  Moiun,  jm. 

Willelmo  filio 1  2  Alani,  jm. 

Hascuil  Musard,  vm. 

Comes  Arundel,  xx.s. 

Honor  de  Blia,  in  Leycestria,  dimidiam  marcam. 
Robertus  de  Gant,  xs. 

Willelmus  le  Mescbin,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Philippus  de  San[der]vilia,  jm. 

Hugo  Wac,  jm. 

Galfridus  Ridel,  iiij  l.  iiijs.  vijd. 

Robertus  de  Ros,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Willelmus  de  Albeyni  Brito,  vjZ. 

Comes  Gioucestrise,  jm. 

Osbertus  de  Coleshidle,  ijm. 

Comes  Cestrise,  in  respectu  per  breve  Regis. 

Ricardus  de  Campville,  in  perdono  per  breve  Regis. 
Girard  de  Limesye,  ijm. 

Devenesira. 

Abbas  de  Tavistokia,  xvm. 

Rogerus  de  Valle  Torta,  jm. 

1  The  sum  accounted  for  on  the 

Pipe  Roll  is  13Z.  6s.  8 d.,  i.e.  xiij/. 
iiijxxd. 


2  Sic  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


31 


Willelmus  filius  Reginaldi,  j m. 

Robertus  filius  Martin,  vm, 

Comes  Ricardus  de  Ripariis,  xlvj7. 

Rogerus  de  Novant,  xxxm,,  cum  perdonis  Roberto  de 
Sanctas  Mariae  ecclesia,  iijm. ;  et  Willelmo  de  Reygni, 
viijm. 

Norhamtesira. 

Abbas  de  Burgo,  xil.  Quia  in  thesauro,  xxxviijh ;  et 
in  perdonis  Henrico  de  Oyli,  j  m.  ;  Willelmo  Avenel,  j  m. ; 
et  Willelmo  de  Hastinges,  j  m. 

Ricardus  Engayne,  xvs.  vj<A 

Willelmus  de  Albeny  Brito,  xxxvj.9.  vjd. 

Robertus  de  Chokes,  vijm. ;  de  quibus  ijm.  in  Buking- 
hamsira. 

Robertus  filius  Albrici,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Radulfus  de  Bello  Fago,  xxs. 

Willelmus  Avenel,  j  m. 

Rogerus  de  Munbray,  j  m. 

Robertus  Foliot,  xlvj.s.  viijB. 

Berksira. 

Abbas  Abbendoniae,  xxl.  Quia  in  thesauro,  xvj£. ; 
in  perdonis  Johanni  Marscallo,  dimidiam  marcam  ; 
Reginaldo  de  Sancto  Valerico,  j??r  ;  et  debet  xls. 

WlLTESIRA. 

Episcopus  Sarrisbiriensis,  xxj?.  vjs.  Quia  in  thesauro, 
xviij^. ;  in  perdonis  Radulfo  filio  Stephani  j  m. ;  Johanni 
de  Oxoneford,  dimidiam  marcam  ;  et  debet  xlvs. 

Humfridus  de  Boun,  xxl. 

Robertus  filius  Herberti,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Mathaeus  Croc,  ijm. 

Elias  Giffard,  vj^. 

Abbas  Malmesbirias,  xls. 


A.D. 

1161-2. 


32 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1161-2. 


Fo.  52  d. 


Galfridus  Hese,  jm. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  jm. 

Girard  GifFard,  jm. 

Lincolnesira. 

Episcopus  Lincolniensis,  xB.  vs.  Quia  in  thesauro, 
xxxj  l. ;  in  perdonis  Comiti  Leycestrise  jm. ;  Sayero  de 
Quincy,  dimidiam  marcam  ;  Reginaldo  de  Sancto  Walerico, 
ijm. ;  Willelmo  filio  Hamonis,  ijm. ;  Henrico  de  Oyli, 
jm. ;  Philippo  de  Kime,  ijm.  ;  Gile  de  Neville,  vm. ;  Mo¬ 
nachis  de  Thame,  vs. 

Thomas  filius  Guillelmi,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Walterus  de  Aencort,  xxvji.,  iijs.,  iijc?. 

Hugo  de  Baiocis,  xxm. 

Reginaldus  de  Crevequer,  viijm.  et  dimidiam. 
Willelmus  de  Romare.1 
Thomas  de  Arescy,  xxm. 

Lambertus  de  Scoteigny,  vm. 

N  ORHUMBRELANDE. 

Jacobus  de  Buillun,  xls. 

Robertus  de  Carro,  jm. 

Robertus  de  Wigornia,  jm. 

Hugo  filius  Rogeri,  jm. 

Walterus  de  Bolebec,  vm. 

Walterus  filius  Alvredi  et  Godefridus  Baiard,  viijs.  xj d. 
Willelmus  de  Amundeville,  jm. 

Odinell  de  Dunfranville,  ijm. 

Walterus  filius  Yvonis,  jm. 

Jordanus  de  Bussi,  ijm. 

Walterus  filius  Willelmi,  iijm. 

Ricardus  Bertram,  iijm. 

Willelmus  de  Teise,  jm. 

Radulfus  de  Cauz,  jm. 

Willelmus  de  Merlay,  iiijm. 

Stephanus  de  Bolimer,  vm. 


1  In  perdono  per  breve  Regis  Ricardo  de  Canville. — T.  R. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


33 


SOMERSETTE. 

Robertus  de  Bello  Campo,  vjZ.  de  militibus  de  dominico 
suo.  Et,  inferius  in  rotulo,  vijZ.,  xxcZ.  Summa — xiij/.xxcZ. 
Ricardus  filius  Guillelmi,  lxvs. 

Ricardus  dii  Estre,  xxvs. 

Willelmus  de  Sancto  Claro,  iiijZ.  xjs.  viijcZ. 

Galfridus  de  Mondeville,  jm. 

Nicholaus  filius  Herding,  xxviijs.  iiijcZ. 

Henricus  Lovel,  vm, 

Rogerus  de  Arundel,  xxZ. 

Ricardus  de  Monte  Acuto,  iiijZ.  xlcZ. 

Henricus  de  Cultura,  jm. 

Wandrille  de  Curcellis,  cum  perdonis,  ixZ.  jm.  xvjrf. 
Alexander  de  Alno,  jm. 

Robertus  filius  Martin,  v?n. 

Rogerus  filius  Hugonis,  vjs. 

Willelmus  de  Moyun,  xxijZ. 

Episcopus  Bath onien sis,  xiijZ.,  vjs.,  vijcZ. 

Abbas  Glastonise,  xvjZ.  jm.  Quia  in  thesauro,  xZ.  jm. ; 
et  in  perdonis  Willelmo  Malet,  viijZ.  ;  Johann  i  filio 
Hamonis,  jm. ;  Willelmo  filio  Johannis,  jm. ;  Alvredo 
de  Lincolnia,  vm. ;  et  debet,  vm.1 

Dorsete. 

Abbatissa  Sancti  Edward  i,  vijm. 

Abbas  de  Cerne,  ijm. 

Abbas  de  Middeltonia,  ijm. 

Abbas  de  Sireburne,  ijm. 

Abbas  de  Abbodesbery,  jm. 

Notingham.  Dereby. 

Honor  Piperelli,  xxixZ.  Quia  in  thesauro,  xxZ.  ; 
in  perdonis  Willelmo  fratri  Regis,  xls. ;  fratri  Hugoni 

1  The  items  of  this  entry  agree  with  the  Pipe  Roll,  but  it  is  obvious 
that  the  total  16 1.  13s.  4d.  should  have  been  26 1.  13s.  4 d. 


A.D 

1161- 


63377. 


C 


34 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1161-2. 


Fo.  53. 


Priori  xls. ;  Roberto  filio  Vicecomitis,  xls. ;  Hospitali, 
jm. ;  Waltero  Bec,  jm. ;  Philippo  cie  Kime,  dimidiam 
marcam ;  Abbati  de  Gerondone,  iiijs.  vd. ;  Hospitali, 
ijs.  iijd  ;  David  Marescallo,  jm.1 

Honor  de  Tykehulle,  xB.  Quia  in  thesauro,  xxiiiji.  ; 
et  in  perdonis  Roberto  Yicecomite,  ijm. ;  Alexandro  filio 
Tokoe,  ijm. ;  Herveio  Marescallo,  jm. ;  Roberto  de  J orz, 
dimidiam  marcam ;  in  vasto,  dimidiam  marcam.  Et 
debet,  xij£. 

Raclulfus  Hanselin,  xxvm. 

Robertus  de  Cauz,  xvm. 

SUTHSEXA. 

Episcopus  Cicestrensis,  ijm. 

Capellaria  de  Boseham,  cs. 

Robertus  Peverel,  jm. 

Robertus  de  Praeres,  dimidiam  marcam. 

SUTHAMTESIRA. 

Episcopus  Wintoniensis,  cum  perdonis,  xB. 

Abbas  de  Hida,  xxm. 

Willelmus  de  Romare,  xxm. 

SURREIA. 

Abbas  Certeseyse,  iijm. 

Bukingham.  Bedeford. 

Honor  de  Wardone,  xjm. 

Ricardus  filius  Nigelli,  jm. 

Willelmus  de  Bussay,  \m. 

Willelmus  de  Sirintone,  ijm. 

Walterus  de  Wahulle,  cum  perdonis,  xxs. 

Osbertus  Martel,  xxxi. 

Robertus  de  Albeyni,  xvj£.  xiijs.  iiijcZ. 


1  The  gum  total  appears  to  be  incorrectly  added,  though  the  items  agree 
■with  the  Roll. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


35 


Hamo  filius  Meinfelin,  xl. 

Simon  de  Bello  Campo,  xxxvj£.  Quia  in  thesauro, 
xxxl.  xvijs.  viijd  ;  et  in  perdonis  Hugoni  de  Bello 
Campo,  xxxjs. ;  Canonicis  de  Mertone,  xxxijs. ;  Moniali- 
bus  de  Chikesand,  xxvs. ;  Monachis  de  Wardone,  xs. 
iiijcZ. ;  Fratribus  Hospitalis,  iiijs. 

Comes  Cestriee  [  ],  de  scutagio.1 

Cantebrige.  Huntingdonesira. 

Abbas  de  Ramesye,  iiijm. 

Stephanus  de  Scalariis,  ixZ.  vjs.  viijd 
Comes  Conanus,  iiijm. 

Alb[er]y  Picot,  jm. 

Henricus  de  Scalariis,  xxixs. 

Comes  Galfridus,  jm. 

Ascelin  de  Walter  ville,  vm. 

Robertus  Foliot,  vm. 

Alexander  filius  Geraldi,  xxs. 

Willelmus  de  Say,  ijm. 

Nigellus  de  Lovetot,  vj£.  xd. 

In  viij0  Rotulo  in  aliis  comitatibus  non  sunt  scutagia. 


INCIPIT  ANNUS  XIIIIUS  REGIS  HENRICI 

SECUNDI. 

Kent. 

Hugo  de  Dovra,  ixl.  dimidiam  marcam  de  veteri ; 
et  de  novo,  jm. 

Willelmus  filius  Hentfe,  xlvjs.  viijd ;  et  de  novo, 
ijs.  viij[d]. 

Willelmus  de  Ros,  iiij  l.  jm. 

Walterus  de  Meine,  xxiij£.  jm. ;  et  de  novo,  xxs. 

1  Sic  in  MS.  and  in  T.  11.,  accounted  for  by  the  fact  that  this  scutage 
was  “  in  respectu  ”  by  the  King’s  writ. 

c  2 


A.D. 

1161-2. 


A.D. 
1167-8. 
Fo.  53  d. 


36 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1167-8. 


Arehiepis- 
copi scu- 
tagium 
intra  anno 
tatum  est 
post  Dor- 
sette.1 


Walkelin  Mamignot,  xviijk  ;  et  de  novo,  jm. 

'Willelmus  de  Abrincis,  xyiij  l.  et  jm. ;  et  de  novo, 
ijm.  et  dimidium. 

Daniel  de  Crevequer,  xj£.  jm. 

Lundres.  Middelsexa. 

Episcopus  Londoniensis,  xxm.  pro  militibus  quos 
recognoscit ;  et  xj l.  xvijs.  ixd.  pro  illis  quos  non  recog¬ 
noscit. 

SURREIA. 

Abbas  Certeseite,  iijm.  pro  illis  quos  recognoscit ;  et 
jm.  pro  illis  quem  non  recognoscit. 

Bedeford. 

Robertus  de  Albeygni,  xvj£.  jm. 

Simon  de  Bello  Campo,  xxxl.  xs.  viijd. ;  et  de  novo 
viijm 

Walterus  de  Wahulle,  xi xl.  Quia  in  thesauro,  xviij^.  ; 
et  in  dominio  Regis  de  Ravenestorp,  xxs. 

Honor  Piperelli  de  Dovra  in  hoc  comitatu,  videlicet, 
de  Roberto  de  Suri  ve,  dimidiam  marcam  ;  de  Rogero 
filio  Wimutidi,  ijs.  viijci;  de  Hugone  filio  Alani,  xl d. 

Bukinghamsira. 

Willelmus  Maudut,  Camerarius,  xxiijs.  iiij d. ;  et  de 
novo,  xxxvjs.  viijc?. 

Hugo  de  Kaagnes,  viijs.  xd. 

Osbertus  Martel,  xxvs.  de  feodo  in  Edulnesbrige. 

Reginaldus  de  Curtonai,  xxm.,  per  Galterum  de 
Bolebier. 

Willelmus  de  Bolebec,  jm. 

Hamo  filius  Meinfelin,  xl. 

Honor  de  Beeveer,  jm.  in  Chedindone.2 

Willelmus  de  Windesores,  xij/.  ijs.  ijcZ. 


1  Marginal  note  in  a  contem¬ 

porary  ’hand. 


2  Partly  written  over  an  erasure. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


37 


Willelmus  dc  Sirintone,  ijm. 

Ricardus  filius  Nigelli,  xxs. 

o  J 

Willelmus  de  Pinkeingni,  i xl. ;  sed  amodo  in  Nor- 
hamtesira. 

Johannes  de  Bidun,  lxiijs.  iiij d. 

Honor  Comitis  GifFardi,  lvij /.  vjs.  viijd.  ;  et  de  novo, 
xxs.,  per  Vicecomitein. 

Norfolc.  Suffolc. 

Episcopus  Norwicensis,  xlm.  de  hiis  quos  recognoscit; 
et  c  et  xvjs.  viijd.  de  viijto  militibus  et  dimidio  et 
quarta  [parte  militis]  quos  non  recognoscit. 

Comes  de  Clare,  iiij xx  et  xiiij£.  xjs.  xd.  pro  cxxxj 
militibus  et  duabus  partibus  [militis],  iija,  iiij a,  viija, 
ixa,  xa  et  duabus  tricesimis  [partibus]  de  feodo  suo  ;  et 
de  ix  militibus  et  quarta  parte  [militis]  de  feodo  uxoris 
sum  Comitissse  de  Clare ;  et  de  ciiijs.1  iiij (7.  de  novo 
feffamento. 

Galfridus,  Archidiaconus  Cantuariae,  jm.  de  Mor. 

Man  asser  de  Danmartin,  jm. 

Willelmus  de  Albeyni  pincerna,  lxxvjm. 

Hubertus  de  Ria,  xxxvm. 

Walterus  Bec,  jm. 

W  illelmus  Blundus,  vijm. 

Odo  de  Danmartin,  jm. 

Willelmus  de  Norwico,  jm. 

Rogerus  de  Kenetwelle,  xm. ;  sed  in  dominico  Regis 
de  Bekenhulle,  jm. 

Willelmus  de  Colecestria,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Radulfus  filius  Ribaud,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Lucas  de  Debbeham,  jm. 

Abbas  Sancti  Edmundi,  xlm. ;  et  xijm.  de  hiis  quos 
non  recognoscit. 

Abbas  de  Hulmo,  lijs. 

Honor  Comitis  Conani  in  hiis  comitatibus,  vj/.  ixs. 
jrf.  per  Yicecomitem. 


A.D. 

1167-8. 


1  ciij s. — T.  R. 


38 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.p.  Honor  de  Wermegay,  ixl.  xs.  ;  de  novo,  xld.  per 
116/  8‘  Reginaldum  de  Garenne. 

Comes  Hugo,  iiijxxiij£.  xs.  pro  vjxx  et  v  militibus  et 
Fo.  54.  quarta  parte  [militis]  ;  et  de  novo,  xxxvijm.  et  dimidiam. 

Honor  de  Eye,  lx£.  et  dimidiam  marcam  pro  iiij^x  . 
militibus  et  dimidio. 

Essexa.  Hertfordsira. 

Abbas  Sancti  Albani,  iiip. 

Gilbert  de  Montficliet,  xxxj£.  xs. ;  de  novo,  ixs.  iiijd. 

Gralent  de  Tany,  cs. 

Comes  Albericus,  xxl.  xxd. 

Henricus  filius  Geroldi,  xxxvl.  vs.  viijd.  de  feodo 
Eudonis  Dapiferi,  et  iiijZ.  xviijs.  viij d.  de  novo. 

Robertas  de  Helion,  ixm. ;  sed  in  dominico  Regis  de 
Bunstede,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Galfridus  de  Valoniis,  ijm. 

Robertus  de  Yaloniis,  xxl.  iiijs.  vd. 

Mathseus  de  Gerardville,  jm. 

Albanus  de  Heyron,  jm. 

Robertus  filius  Walteri,  xlij£.  vjs.  viijd. ;  de  novo, 
xliijs.  iiijcZ. 

Comes  Willelmus,  iiijxxxviijm.  iiijs.  vd.,  secundum 
cartam  fratris  sui. 

Honor  Piperelli  de  Londonia,  xxvijZ.  xvs.  vj d.,  de 
xlj  militibus  [et]  dimidio,  et  vja  parte  [militis]  in  baillia 
sua,  per  veredictum  Vicecomitis. 

Ricardus  de  Reimes,  xm. ;  sed  in  dominico  Regis  de 
Dunham,  jm.  Et  calumpniatur  quod  Picot  de  Tany 
habet  ij  [milites]  per  Regem  ;  Simon  de  Cantilupo,  ij  ; 
Comes  Albericus,  dimidium  [militem] ;  Philippus  Parage, 
dimidium. 

Willelmus  de  Reimes ; 1  sed  calumniatur. 


1  Blank  in  MS.  Willelmus  de 
Raimis  debet  viijm.  xxx,  de  veteri 
feffaniento,  et  iij s.  and  iiij d.  de  novo. 
Sed  calumpniatur  quod  Rex  ipse  et 


Comes  Hugo  et  Comes  Albericus  et 
Simon  de  Cantelu  tenent  feoda. — 
T.  R. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


39 


Norhamtesira. 

Abbas  de  Burgo,  lxm. 

Reginald us  filius  Ursy,  xls.  et  xxvijcZ. 

Robertus  de  Chokes,  xvm. 

Fulco  de  Lisures,  jm. 

Galfridus  Ridel,  xvm. 

Robertus  filius  Alvredi  Camerarii,  dimidiam  marcain. 
Robertus  Foliot,  ixl.  xlci 
Heyham,  escaeta,  ijm.  et  dimidiam. 

Olneye,  escaeta,  xxiij.s.  iiijd. 

YVarwika.  Leycestresira. 

Prior  Coventriae,  xm. 

Willelmus  de  Albeny  Brito,  xxxiijm. ;  de  novo,  iiijm. 
et  dimidiam. 

Robertus  Marmion,  vij£.  xijs.  viijcZ. ;  de  novo,  lxxs. 
Fulco  filius  Garin,  jm. 

Comes  de  Warewika,  lxviij£.  iiijs.  vd.  pro  cij  militi¬ 
bus  et  tertia  parte  [militis] ;  et  de  novo,  ijm. 

Lincolnesira. 

Episcopus  Lincolniensis,  xll. ;  et  xxviijh  de  illis  quos 
non  recognoscit. 

Mauricius  de  Crouu,  xvl.  ;  de  novo,  lxs. 

Hugo  Baiocensis,  xjk  vs.  xd. ;  de  novo,  lvj.s. 

Hugo  Wac,  vj  l.  xvs. ;  de  novo,  xld 
Ricardus  de  Haya,  xvjm. ;  de  novo,  iiijm. 

Walterus  de  Aencort,  xxxiijh  vjs.  viij d. ;  de  novo,  vm. 
Thomas  de  Arecy,  xxm. ;  de  novo,  xs. 

Robertus  filius  Hugonis,  xvj£.  jm. 

Willelmus  Martel,  xld. 

Simon  de  Cancy,  vm. 

Lambertus  de  Scoteygni,  xm. ;  de  novo,  xs. 

Elias  de  Amu  ude  ville,  iiij  milites. 


A.I). 

1167-8. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


40 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1167-8. 


Fo.  54  d. 


Comes  Simon,  xl vZ.  xiijs.  ixc/. ;  de  novo,  ix/.1  xs.  \d. 
Willelmus  de  Romare,  xxxix/.  xs. ;  sed  W.  Comes  de 
Romara  relaxavit  illi,  per  testimonium  carta3,  ix  milites 
et  dimidium. 


Eboracsira. 

Archiepiscopus  Eboracensis  xxm. ;  et  de  illis  quos  non 
recognoscit  xxiijm.  [et]  dimidiam. 

Episcopus  Dunholmensis,  xm. ;  et  xl/.  xijs.  ijc/.  pro  lx 
militibus  duabus  tertiis  [partibus  militis]  et  j  quarta, 
quos  non  recognoscit. 

Rogerus  de  Muntbray,  lviij/.  xvjs.  viijc/. 

Willelmus  de  Vescy,  xvij/.  xiijs. ;  de  novo,  xxviijs. 
vijd. 

Guido  de  Laval,  xxm. 

Ranulfus  filius  Galteri,  xliiijs.  vd. 

Everard  de  Ros,  cxij.s.  j  d. 

Comes  Albemarlse,  xxm. 

Comes  Conanus,  1  m. 

Adam  de  Brus,  xvm. 

Jocelin  de  Lovein,  xvm.  et  dimidiam. 

Honor  de  Tykehulle,  xl/.  xs.,  per  Yicecomitem. 
Willelmus  Eossard,  xxj/. 

Willelmus  de  Percy,  xxxm. 

Ampridus  de  Cancy,  vm. 

Stephanus  filius  Herberti  Camerarii,  xvjs.  vij d. 
Alexander  filius  Geroldi,  xiiij/. ;  de  quibus  cvjs.  viijc/. 
de  novo. 

Willelmus  Trussebut,  xm. 

Robertus  de  Brus,  vm. 

Willelmus  de  Filgeriis,  jm. 

Robertus  de  Stoteville,  cviijs.  iiijc/. 

Willelmus  Paganellus,  xvjm.  ;  de  novo,  jm. 

Willelmus  de  Beumeis,  iijm.  et  dimidiam  ;  de  novo, 
ijs.  viijc/. 


1  ixl.  repeated  in  MS. 


LIBER|RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO.  41 

Henricus  de  Lascy,  xlijZ.  xs. ;  de  quibus  xiiijZ.  vijs. 
vj d.  sunt  de  novo  feffamento. 

Robertus  de  Gant,  xjZ.  vjs.  viijcZ. 

Wenroz  Pome,* 1  xlcZ.  de  feodo  de  Wartre. 

Paganus,  j m.  de  eodem  feodo. 

Adam  Dagun,  xlcZ.  de  eodem. 

Willelmus  filius  Anketil,  ijs.  ij d.  de  eodem. 

Willelmus  Selveyn  et  Guido  de  Yer,  jm.  de  eodem. 
Herbertus  de  Yaliibus,  j  to.  de  eodem. 

Willelmus  de  Wivill  dimidiam  marcam  de  eodem. 
Radulfus  de  Boleber,  xld.  de  eodem. 

Honor  de  Tykehulle,  liijZ.  xiiijs. 


W IGOIINSIRA. 

Episcopus  Wigorniensis,  liij  milites  ct  vjam  [partem] 
militis.  Quia  in  thesauro,  xxxij£.  xvijs.  iiijrZ.  ;  in  terris 
quas  Rex  habet,  iiijm. ;  et  quietus  est. 

Abbas  de  Evesham,  iiijm. 

Abbas  de  Persore  [ijm.].2 

Herford  in  W  allia. 

Episcopus  Herford iensis,  xvm. ;  sed  Johannes  Comin, 
custos  [reddit  compotum]  de  iiij  militibus  et  dimidio 
praeter  illos  quos  [Episcopus]  recognoscit ;  qui  remanent 
super  Hugonem  de  Lascy  et  Margaretam  de  Bohunt  qui 
non  recognoscunt  servitia. 

O 

Ricardus  de  Cormeles,  ixm. 

Robertus  de  Ewias,  xixm. 

Robertus  de  Chamdos,  xiijm.  et  xxijd. 

Hugo  de  Lascy,  Ijm.  et  xkZ. 

Baderon  de  Munemue,  xvm. 


1 Henricus  filius  Pavice. — T.  R.  I  2  Blank  in  MS. ;  supplied  from 

I  T.  R. 


A.D. 

1107-8. 


42 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1167-8. 

Super 

castrum 

Ricardi 

carta 

nulla.1 


Osbertus  filius  Hugonis,  xxiijm. 
Hugo  Forestarius,  xxs. 

Willelmus  filius  Reginaldi,  jm. 
Adam  de  Port,  xvl.  ijs. 

Staffordsira. 

Episcopus  Coventrensis,  xl. 
Robertus  de  Stafford,  lxm. 
Gervasius  Paganellus,  1  m. 

Bertram  de  Yerdon,  jm. 

Abbas  de  Burtone,  cs. 


Gloucestresira. 

Abbas  Gloucestriae  de  promissione,  sed  non  numeratur 
quid;2  sed  in  rotulo  praecedenti  dicitur: — Abbas  Glou- 
cestrice  debet  xxxviij  1.  ijs.  vjd.  de  veteri  scutagio  W allice. 
In  perdono  per  breve,  totam. 

Abbas  Winche  cumbae,  ijm. 

Margareta  de  Bolum,  xvijm. 

Robertus  de  Scropes,  xls. 

Robertus  filius  Herding,  vm. 

Paganus  de  Monte  Dublel,  xijm.  et  dimidiam. 

Radulfus  de  Sudlega,  xvs.  iiijcZ. 

Rogerus  de  Berkelay,  cs. 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato,  xj£.  xiiijs.  ij d. 

Comes  Gloucestriae,  cclxjm.  et  dimidiam. 

Honor  Willelmi  filii  Alani,  1  xxl.  viijs.  xyl. 

Devonesira. 

Eo.  55.  Episcopus  Exoniensis,  xl.  vjs.  viijcZ. ;  et  xj/.  xvjs.  ijc?. 
de  illis  quos  non  recognoscit. 

Oliver  de  Tracy,  xvijL  xs. 

Garinus  de  Halla,  iiij A  xviijs.  viijd. ;  et  xxxixs.  iiijcZ. 
de  novo. 


1  In  a  later  hand. 

2  Abbas  Gloucestrice  reddit  com¬ 


potum  de  xlm.  de  eodem  auxilio 
{Matii dis  filiae  Regis'). — T.  R. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


43 


Comes  Reginaldus,  ccxvm.  iij.s.  vc?.  de  militibus  in 
Cornubia  et  Devonia ;  et  lix?.,  vjs.  viijt?.  de  liiis  quos  tenet 
de  feodo  Comitis  Ricardi. 

Robertus  filius  Regis,  lix?,  xvijs.  j[c?.] ;  et  de  novo,  jm. 

Willelmus  de  Breose,  xxviijm. 

Oliver  de  Tracy,  xviij?.  jm. ;  et  de  novo,  ijm. 

Willelmus  Peverell,  xjs.  j d. ;  sed  in  dominico  Regis  de 
Watfeld  et  Covertone,  iiijs.  vd. 

Henricus  de  Pomeray,  xxj?.  vs.  vjc?. 

Radulfus  de  Yalle  Torta,  jm. 

Walterus  Abbas,  xvjm. ;  de  novo,  xxs. 

Willelmus  de  Trac}7,  xvij?.  xs. 

Willelmus  filius  Roberti,  xix?.  vjs.  viijc?. ;  de  novo,  jm. 

Radulfus  Sanz  Aver,  jm. 

Robertus  filius  Galfridi,  jm. 

Willelmus  filius  Reginaldi,  jm. 

Rogerus  de  Nonant,  xxxvij?.  iiijs.  xd.  de  honore  1  de 
Totenesse  ;  de  novo,  xij?.  xvs.  jc?.  de  eodem  lionore. 

Dorsette.  Sumersete. 

Episcopus  Bathoniensis,  xxm. 

Abbas  Glastonise,  xxvj?.  jm.  de  hiis  quos  recognoscit ; 
de  aliis,  lxs. 

Abbas  Muchelneiae,  jm. 

Abbatissa  Sancti  Edwardi,  vijm.  et  xlvs.  vjd  pro  iijbus 
[partibus],  quarta  [parte],  et  vja  [parte]  quos  non  recog¬ 
noscit. 

Abbas  de  Abbodesbiria,  jm. 

Abbas  de  Cerne,  ijm. ;  et  viijm.  de  veteri,  quos  non 
recognoscit. 

Abbas  Sireburnise,  xxixs.  iiijc?. 

Robertus  de  Bello  Campo,  vij?.  xxd.  pro  xvij  militibus, 
videlicet,  de  unoquoque  viijs.  iiijc?.  de  feodo  Comitis 
Moretonise. 

Willelmus  Bret,  vj?.  vs.  pro  xv.  militibus  de  eodem 
feodo,  consimiliter. 


A.D. 

1167-8. 


1  de  honore  repeated  in  MS. 


44 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1167-8. 


Willelmus  filius  Galfridi,  dimidium  militem. 

Drogo  de  Monte  Acuto,  xm. 

Robertus  filius  Radulfi,  j m. 

Alvredus  de  Lincolnia,  xvj/.  xvs.  xjd.  pro  xxiiij 
militibus  et  iijtus  [partibus],  quintis  [partibus],  et  xvja 
parte.  De  novo,  iiij  [milites]  et  dimidius,  iija  [pars], 
iiija,  va,  xxiiija. 

Radulfus  de  Kahaignes,  iijm. ;  et  xliijs.  et  iiij cZ.  de 
tribus  [militibus]  et  iiija  [parte]. 

Willelmus  de  Cortenay,  xvj/.  xd.  de  honore  patris  sui 
et  lvj.s.  pro  iiij.  militibus  et  va  [parte]  de  novo. 

Nicholaus  Harding,  xxvjs.  xd.  pro  j  milite  et  dimidio 
de  feodo  de  Monte  Acuto,  et  j  alio  integro  de  feodo  debito. 

Henricus  Lovel,  vij  l.  j  m. ;  et  vj  milites  praeterea  et 
dimidium  de  feodo  de  Monte  Acuto  ;  et  j  militem  de  novo 
per  Vicecomitem. 

Hugo  de  Corcellis,  j  m. 

Ricardus  de  Atrio,  xxxvs.  j d.  pro  iiij  militibus  et 
tertia  parte  de  feodo  de  Monte  Acuto  qui  exigendus 
est 1  de  Willelmo  de  Windesores,  et  xl  denarios  de  novo. 

Gerbertus  de  Percj^,  xxl.  ;  et  j[m.]  de  novo. 

Bernard  Polein,  viijs.  viijd.  de  j  feodo  de  Monte  Acuto. 

Willelmus  le  Meschin,  xj/.  per  Vicecomitem. 

Philippus  de  Columbariis,  xm.  ;  de  novo,  jm. 

Willelmus  filius  Willelmi,  iijm. 

Willelmus  de  Erlega,jm. 

Willelmus  de  Moyun,  xljm. ;  de  novo,  ijm. 

Willelmus  Malet,  xv/.  xijs.  xd. ;  et  dimidiam  marcam 
de  feodo  de  Kent. 

Galfridus  de  Mondeville,  jm. 

Galfridus  Martel,  iiij/.  xvijs.  vjd.  de  feodo  de  Monte 
Acuto  ;  et  jm.  et  dimidiam  de  eodem  feodo  de  novo. 

Willelmus  Belet,  jm. 

Willelmus  filius  Johannis,  xiiijm.  xs.  ;  de  novo,  jm. 

Ricardus  filius  Willelmi,  iiij/.  xlc/.  de  feodo  de  Monte 
Acuto. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


45 


Archiepiscopatus  Cantuariae  [lvj£.  xs.]1.  Quia  in  the¬ 
sauro  xlvj/.  xs.  ;  in  perdonis  Reginaldo  de  Cortonai,  j m. 
de  feodo  Walteri  de  Bolebeke  ;  Thomae  filio  Bemardi, 
ijm. ;  Willelmo  de  Breose,  j  m. ;  Willelmo  Malet,  Dapifero, 
xxiiijs.  vd. ;  Ricardo  de  Lucy,  j  m.  In  dominico  Regis 
in  honore  Constabulariae  scilicet  in  Saltwode,  ijm.  In 
defectu  feodorum  quas  perierunt  in  marisco  de  Romenel, 
videlicet,  David  de  Romenel  et  Roberto  de  Sancto  Leo- 
clegario,  xls. 

WlLTESIRA. 

Episcopus  Sarrisbiriensis,  xxj l.  vjs.  viijd.  Et  in  Ime- 
mere  quam  Ricarclus  Rufius  tenet  per  Regem,  jm. 

Godefridus  de  Squidimor,  vm.,  qui  ideo  redduntur 
quia  Robertus  de  Ewias  noluit  recipere  homagium  suum. 

Hunpridus  de  Bohun,  xxxm.  [et]  dimidiam  ;  de  novo, 
ixm.  et  dimidiam. 

Abbatissa  Wiltonise,  vm. 

Gerard  Giffard,  jm. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  jm. 

Petrus  de  Mara,  ijm. 

Walterus  Waleran,  xxvm. 

Ricardus  de  Grenestede,  jm. 

Garinus  de  Lisures,jm. 

Hunpridus  de  Sancto  Vigore,  dimidiam  m. 

Elyas  Giffard,  ixm. 

Galfridus  Hese,  jm. 


Berkesira. 

Abbas  Abbendoniae,  xxL  et  xls.  de  hiis  quos  non 
recognoscit. 

Willelmus  Achard,  xls. 

Willelmus  de  Sifregast,  jm. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  ijm. ;  de  novo,  dimidiam 
m  arcam. 

H  ugo  de  Boclande,  jm. ;  de  novo,  xxs. 


a.d. 

1167-8. 


Fo.  55  cl. 


1  Blank  in  MS. ;  supplied  from  T.  R. 


46 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  NORHUMBRELANDE. 

1167-8. 

Willelmus  cie  Vescy,  lxm. 

Ernalcl  de  Morville,  j m. 

Robertus  de  Caron,  j  m. 

Rogerus  Bertram,  vjm.  [et]  dimidiam. 

Johannes  filius  Wodard,  xls. 

Gilbertus  de  Boillun,  iijm. 

Bernard  de  Baillol,  xxl. 

Galterus  filius  Willelmi,  xls. 

Robertus  de  Bradefer,  j  m. 

Rogerus  filius  Ricardi,  j  m. 

Willelmus  filius  Siward,jm. 

Ricardus  Bertram,  iiijs.  vj  d. 

Willelmus  filius  Alvredi,  iiijs.  vjc?. 

Gilbertus  de  Laval,  ijm. 

Walterus  de  Bolebek,  iiijm.  [et]  dimidiam  ;  de  novo, 
xlviijs.  pro  iij  [militibus]  et  duabus  tertiis  [partibus]. 
Philippus  de  Homez,  ijm. 

Willelmus  de  Mundeville,  jm. 

Radulfus  de  Wigornia,  jm.  ;  et  xxiijc?.  de  j  tertia,  et 
viija  [parte]  de  novo. 

-  Rogerus  de  Merlay,  iiijm. 

Stephanus  de  Bolimer,  iiijm. ;  et  ijm.  et  dimidiam  de 
novo  pro  j  [milite]  et  dimidio  et  iiija  [parte]. 

Godefriclus  Bayard,  iiijs.  vjcZ. 

Hugo  de  Helingtone,  xxs. 

Radulfus  de  Gaugi,  xxs. 

Odinel  de  Dunfranville,  ijm. 


SUDHAMTESIRA. 

Episcopus  Wintoniensis,  x\l. ;  et  xvjm.  de  aliis  cpios 
non  recognoscit. 

Johannes  de  Port,  lvm. ;  de  novo,  ijm.  per  Vice- 
comitem. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO.  47 

Robertas  de  Ponte  Arche,  jm. 

Willelmus  filius  Aldelin,  Marscallus,  xvj.s.  viijd. 

Abbas  de  Hida,  xxm, 


SUDSEXA. 

Episcopus  Cicestrensis,  iiijm. ;  et  lxxiiijm.  de  hiis  quos 
non  recognoscit. 

Comes  de  Augo,  xliiij£.  vj s.  viijd. 

Radulfus  de  Dunan,  iiij£.  pro  Weppeham,1  per  Vice- 
comitem. 

Radulfus  de  Tonay,  ijm. ;  sed  Comes  Arundellus  illos 
[clamat]  per  eundem  Vicecomitem 

Robertus  de  Aquila,  xiiij7.  xj.s.  viijr?. ;  pro  unoquoque, 
viijs.  iiijd. 

Radulfus  de  Belmeis,  iiij£.  ;  sed  Comes  Arundel  illos 
clamat. 

Walterus  de  Dunstan ville,  iijm.  ;  sed  Comes  idem 
clamat. 

Robertus  Piperellus  et  Norman  de  Normanville,  j m. 

Robertus  de  Precariis,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Godwinus  filius  Savarici,  jm.  ;  sed  Comes  clamat  et 
Savaricus  negat. 

Johannes  Tresgoz  et  Philippus,  iijm.  et  dimidiam;  sed 
dicunt  quod  est  super  demanda  Comitis. 

OXONEFORD. 

Manasser  Arsic,  xiij£.  xs. 

Henricus  de  Oyli,  xxj l.  xjs.  j d.;  et  xxs.  viijd  de 
novo. 

Ricardus  de  Camp  ville,  jm. 

Radulfus  filius  Wigani,  xld. 

Oliver  de  Linguire,  jm. 

Phelippus  de  Hamtone,  jm. 

Wakelin  Hareng,  jm. 

Abbas  de  Eynesham,  c.s.  de  promissione. 


A.D. 

1167-8. 


Fo.  56. 


1  Rectius  Meppeham. 


48 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCAOCARIO. 


A.D. 

1167-8. 


A.D. 
1171-2. 
Fo.  56  d. 


Cantebrige. 

Episcopus  Ely  ensis,  xlm.  ;  de  quibus  in  dominico 
Regis  de  Debbeham,  ijm.  Et  Chalvelega,  jm.  Et  in 
feodo  Lucae  de  Terlinge,  jm.  ;  et  xl.  xiijs.  de  hiis  quos 
non  recognoscit. 

Albricus  Picot,  jm. 

Henricus  de  Scalariis,  xvm.  et  dimidiam. 

Willelmus  de  Scalariis,  xvm. 

Hamo  Peccatum,  xijb  xiij.s.  vd. 


Huntingdonsira. 

Abbas  Ramesiae,  iiijm. 

Willelmus  de  Say,  xxxiiijs. 

Nigellus  de  Luvetot,  xm. 

Robertus  de  Lisures,  jm. 

Warnerus  Engaine,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Hugo  de  Dovra,  vm.  de  honore  de  Bronne. 

Comes  Conanus,  xj£  vjs.  viijd.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Salopesira. 

Honor  Gerardi  de  Turnay,  lxvs.  iiijd.  per  Yice- 
comitem.  Yicecomes  non  reddit  compotum  de  feodis 
aliorum  quia  est  in  respectum  per  Barones  donec  Rex 
praecipiat. 


INCIPIT  ANNUS  XYII1US  REGIS  HENRICI 

SECUNDI. 

Kent. 

Johannes  de  Dovra,  xiiij£.  ;  de  novo,  xxs. 

Walterus  de  Maene,  xxi x£. ;  de  novo,  xxxs. 
Willelmus  de  Ros,  vij l. 

Willelmus  filius  Hente,  Ixxs. ;  de  novo,  iiijs. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


49 


Wakelin  Mamignot,  xxvij£. ;  de  novo,  xxs. 

Honor  Piperelli  in  baillia  sua,  per  Yicecomitem,  viiji.  xs. 

ArchiepiscopatusCantuari9e,lx£.,per  Johannem  Maudnt, 
de  militibus  quos  recognoscit 1  se  debere  Regi,  et  xi xl. 
de  militibus  quos  non  recognoscit  prseter  superiores  lx, 
quia  Archiepiscopatus  est  in  manu  Regis.  De  quibus, 
in  perdonis  Ricardo  de  Lucy,  xxs.  ;  et  Thomse  filio 
Radulfi,  xxs. 

Surreia. 

Abbas  Certeseise,  lxs.  de  illis  quos  recognoscit,  et  xxs. 
de  illis  quos  non  recognoscit. 

•  Londonia.  Middelsexa. 

Episcopus  Londoniensis,  xxl.  de  militibus  quos  recog¬ 
noscit,  et  xvij£.  xvijs.  viij[cZ.]  de  aliis  quos  non  recog¬ 
noscit. 

Herforde  in  Wallia. 

Episcopatus  Herefordiensis,  xvl.  de  militibus  quos 
recognoscit  per  manum  Johannis  Com[in]  Custodis ; 
et  lxxs.  de  aliis  quos  non  recognoscit,  quia  Episcopatus 
est  in  manu  Regis. 

De  aliis  militibus  in  hoc  comitatu  nichil. 

Norfolcia.  Suffolcia. 

Episcopus  Norwicensis,  xlZ.  de  militibus  quos  recog¬ 
noscit,  et  ixl.  xvs.  de  militibus  quos  non  recognoscit. 

Rogerus  de  Warenne,  xiiijL  vs. ;  de  novo,  vs.  de 
honore  de  Wrmegai. 

Hubert  de  Rie,  xxxvl.,  per  eundem  Rogerum, 

Willelmus  de  Norwico,  xxs. 

Albericus  de  Danmartin,  xx«. 

Manasser  de  Danmartin,  xxs. 

Rogerus  de  Kenetwelle,  xl. 

Abbatia  de  Hulmo,lxxviijs.,perWiemarum  capellanum. 


1  recongnoscit  in  MS.  passim. 


63377. 


D 


A.D. 

1171-2. 


50 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1171-2. 


Fo.  57. 


Willelmus  de  Colecherche,  xs. 

Walterus  de  Bek,  vs. 

Abbas  Sancti  Edmundi,  xll.  de  militibus  quos  recog¬ 
noscit,  et  xij£.  et  xs.  de  militibus  quos  non  recognoscit. 

Lucas  de  Debebam,  xls. 

Honor  Comitis  Conani,  clxxvj£.  xijs.  j  d.,  per 
Ranulfum  de  Glanville  sed  non  reddit  inde  compotum 
quia  nondum  potuit  scire  numerum  militum  ejusdem 
honoris.  Computatur  post  Hereforde  in  Wallia. 

Honor  de  Eie,  iiijxxx£.  xs.  Computatur  post  Rote- 
lande. 

Norhamtesira. 

Abbas  de  Burgo,  lxl.  pro  militibus  quos,  recognoscit, 
et  lxxvs.  pro  aliis  quos  non  recognoscit. 

Robertus  filius  Alberici,  xs. 

Reginaldus  filius  Ursi,  lxxiijs.  iiijcZ. 

Robertus  Foliot,  xiiji.  xvs. ;  et  in  perdono  Michaeli 
Belet  pincernae,  iiijZ. 

Idem  Robertus,  lxvs.  de  novo. 

Robertus  de  Chokes,  xvl.  ;  et  in  dominico  Regis  de 
Gronesberge,  xxs. 

Milicia  de  Heyham,  lvs.,  per  Yicecomitem. 

Olneye,  xxxvs.,  per  eundem  Yicecomitem. 

Alanus  la  Zuche,  xxs.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Notingham.  Dereby. 

Radulfus  Haunselin,  xxvl. 

Willelmus  de  Heriz,  iiij A 

Honor  Piperelli,  lxl.  xs.  de  liiis  quos  Vicecomes 
invenire  potuit. 

Berkesira. 

Abbas  Abbendonise,  xxxl. 

Willelmus  Acliard,  lxs. ;  sed  calumpniatur  quietam 
per  Regem  usque  ad  unum  militem. 

Hugo  de  Boclande,  xxs. 

Willelmus  de  Siffrewast,  xxs. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


51 


OXONEFORDSIRA. 

Manasser  Arsic,  xxl.  vs.,  per  Johannem  Soleyngni. 
Ricardus  de  Caumpville,  xxs. 

Oliver  de  Linguiure,  xxs. 

Radulfus  filius  Wigayn,  xxs. 

Phelippus  de  Hamtone,  xxs. 

Bernardus  de  Sancto  Valeri co,  \l.,  per  Hugonem  de 
Sancto  Germano. 

Walkelin  Hareng,  xxs. 

Thomas  Basset.1 


WlRECESTRESIRA. 

Episcopus  Wigorniensis,  ll .  de  quibus  in  terris  quas 
Rex  tenet  de  feodo  suo,  lxs. 

Idem,  viij l.  de  militibus  quos  non  recognoscit. 

Abbas  de  Evesham,  iiij  A  xs. 

Abbas  de  Persore,  xls. 

Essexa.  Hertfordsira. 

Abbas  de  Sancto  Albano,  vj l. 

Willelmus  de  Rames,  viijd. 

Robertus  de  Helion,  xl. ;  de  quibus  in  dominico  Regis 
de  Bumstede,  xs. 

Idem  de  novo  feffamento,  iijs. 

Mathmus  de  Gerardville,  xxs. 

Albanus  de  Heyrun,  xxs. 

Ricardus  de  Reymes,  xl.  ;  sed  calumpniatur  quod 
prasdicti  tenent  feoda  viij  militum. 

Honor  Piperelli,  xlji.  xiijs.  iiijd  per  veredictum 
Vicecomitis  in  baillia  sua,  de  quibus  in  dominico  Regis, 
terra,  scilicet,  Galfridi  de  Tresgoz,  j  militem. 

Honor  Comitis  Boloniae  nec  terra  Comitis  Eustachii 


D  2 


A.D. 

1171-2 


1  Sic  in  MS.  and  T.  R. 


52 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1171-2. 


nec  Henrici  cie  Essexa  non  recidunt  compotum  hoc 
anno  de  scutagio  quia  reddiderunt  ipsi  Regi  per  breve 
Regis. 

Honor  de  Berkhamstede,  xiiij£.  ijs.  iijcZ.  de  parvis  feodis. 


Bukingham.  Bedeford. 

Willelmus  de  Windesores,  xviij£.  iijs.  iiijd. ;  et  de 
novo,  xxx vj.s.  viijd. 

Willelmus  de  Sirintone,  xls. 

Willelmus  Mauclut,  xxvs. 

Gillebert  de  Bolebec,  xxs. 

Ricardus  filius  Nigelli,  xxxs. 

Hugo  de  Kahaignes,  jm. 

Gilbertus  de  Pinkeygni,  xvs. 

Simon  de  Bello  Campo,  xl vl.  xvs.  viijcZ. 

Idem,  viiji.  de  novo. 

Osbertus  Martel,  lvs.  xd.,  per  Vicecomitem,  scilicet, 
de  tenentibus  cie  eodem  sic,  videlicet : — de  Simone  filio 
Elise,  xxs. ;  de  Willelmo  de  Baseville,  jm. ;  de  Mauricio 
de  Foresta,  xs.  ;  de  Ricardo  de  Campania,  xs.  ;  de 
Roberto  cum  Barba,  ijs.  vj d. 

Hompridus  Visus  Lupi,  xs. 

Agnes  cie  Bere ville,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Robertus  cie  Surrinde,  xm. 

Hugo  filius  Alani,  vs. 

Rogerus  filius  Wimundi,  iiijs. 

Hamon  de  Giron,  xls. 

Honor  cie  Walingeforde,  c l.  vs.,  per  Thomam  Basset. 

Honor  Comitis  GifFardi,  lvj£. ;  et  de  novo,  xxxs.  Qui 
ideo  reddi  debet  quia  honor  est  in  manu  Regis. 

Everwiksira. 

Willelmus  Fossard,  xxxj£.  xs. 

Archiepiscopus  Eboracensis,  xxl.  Et  xxxiij£.  xs  de 
hiis  quos  non  recognoscit. 

Ampridus  de  Canci,  cs. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


53 


Robertus  de  Stoteville,  viijZ. ;  de  novo,  ij.s.  vj d. 
Willelmus  de  Bolimer,  lxjs.  iiij[cZ.] ;  de  novo,  iiij.s. 
Willelmus  Paganell,  xvZ.  ;  de  novo,  xxs. 

Stephanus  filius  Herberti,  xxiiij.s.  iiijcZ. ;  de  novo,  xx.s. 
Henricus  de  Lascy,  xliijZ.  xvs.  ;  de  novo,  xxxl.  xvjcZ. 
Episcopus  Dunholmensis,  xl. ;  et  lxZ.  xviijs.  iiijcZ.  de 
militibus  quos  non  recognoscit. 

Ranulfus  filius  Walteri,  lxvj.s.  viijjTZ.]. 

Honor  de  Wartre,  iiijZ.  viij.s.  iiijcZ.,  per  Yicecomitem. 
Robertus  de  Brus,  cs. 

Comes  Albemarlae,  xxl. 

Willelmus  Trussebut,  xl. 

Jocelinus  frater  Reginas,  vjZ. 

Willelmus  de  Filgeriis,  xxs. 

Adam  de  Brus,  xvZ. 

Rogerus  de  Stoteville,  xxxvijs.  vj  d.  de  militibus  quos 
habet  de  feodo  Adae  de  Brus. 

Willelmus  Paganellus  de  Alta  Ripa,  lxxs. 

Guido  de  Valle,  xxl. 

Honor  de  Tykehulle,  lxZ.  vs.,  per  veredictum  Johannis 
Constabularii  Cestriae. 

In  hoc  comitatu  nichil  amplius. 

Lancastria. 

Honor  Lancastrke,  lxviijZ.  xvjs.  vcZ.  de  militibus  quos 
invenire  potuit  Vicecomes  Rogerus  de  Herleberge. 

N  ORHUMBRELANDE. 

Rogerus  filius  Ricardi,  xxs. 

Radulfus  de  Wircestria,  xx.s.  ;  de  novo,  xvij.s.  vjcZ. 
Ernoldus  de  Morewie,  xx.s. 

Willelmus  filius  Si  ward,  xxs. 

Rogerus  de  Merlay,  iiijZ. 

Robertus  Karon,  xx.s. 

Ri cardus  Bertram,  lxs. 

Thomas  filius  Stepliani  de  Bolimer,  cs. 

Rogerus  Beretram,  vjZ.  xs. 


A.D. 

1171-2. 


Eo.  57  d. 


54 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1171-2. 


Robertus  de  Develstone,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Johannes  filius  Odardi,  lxs. 

Gilbertus  de  Laval,  xls. 

Godefridus  Baiard,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Walterus  filius  Willelmi,  lxs. ;  de  novo,  xvjs.  viijd 

Walterus  de  Bolebek,  iiij  l.  xs. ;  de  novo,  lxxs. 

Nicholaus  de  Greinville,  xxxs.,  per  Hugonem  de 
Holintone. 

Mabilia  de  Greinville,  xxxs.  de  eodem  feodo. 

Willelmus  de  Yescy,  xxiiij?.  vjs.  viijcZ. ;  de  novo, 
xlijs.  xd. 

Phelippus  de  Homez,  xls.,  per  Rogerum  de  Stoteville. 

Odinell  de  Dumpram  ville,  xls. 

Willelmus  de  Amunde ville,  xxs. 

Adam  de  Tyndale,  xxs. 

Bernardus  de  Baillol  non  reddit  compotum  de  hoc 
scutagio. 

Robertus  de  Vallibus  xls.  Post  Carleol  in  fine  Rotuli. 
Dorsete  et  Sumersete. 

Episcopus  Bathoniensis,  xxl. ;  fuit  in  manu  Regis. 
Post  Wiltesiram. 

Abbatia  Glastonise,  xh.,  per  Archidiaconum  Pictaviee  ; 
et  iiij l.  xs.  de  illis  quos  non  recognoscit,  quia  Abbatia  est 
in  manu  Regis. 

Abbas  Muchelneym,  xxs. 

Abbas  de  Cerne,  xls.,  et  viij£.  pro  illis  quos  non 
recognoscit. 

Abbas  de  Abbodesbiria,  xxs. 

Abbas  de  Micldeltonia,  xls. 

Abbas  de  Sireburnia,  xliiijs. ;  de  novo,  xiijs.  iiijd 

Abbatissa  Sancti  Edwardi,  vij£. ;  et  lxviijs.  iiijd  de 
illis  quos  non  recognoscit. 

Phelippus  de  Columbariis,  xl. ;  de  novo,  xxs. 

Willelmus  filius  Willelmi,  lxs. 

Walterus  Brito,  ix£.  vijs.  vjd  de  xv  militibus  de  Monte 
Acuto. 


S 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


55 


Hugo  de  Corcellis,  xxs. 

Willelmus  [filius]  Gaufr[idi],  xs. 

Henricus  de  Cultura,  xxs. 

Alexander  de  Alno,  xxs. 

Phelippus  filius  Roberti,  xxs. 

Galfridus  de  Mondeville,  xxs. 

Galfridus  Martel,  iiij£.  vs.  de  vj  militibus  de  feodo  de 
Monte  Acuto  ;  et  dimidio  de  alio  feodo.  Idem  debet  xxs. 
de  veteri  feffamento,  sed  calumpniatur  quietantiam  per 
servitium  pincernariae. 

Willelmus  Belet,  xxs. 

Bernard  Puleyn,  xijs.  vj  d.  de  feodo  Montis  Acuti. 

Willelmus  filius  Jobannis  de  Harpetre,  xiiij£.  xvs. ; 
de  novo,  xxs. 

Henricus  filius  Nicholai,  xxxviijs.  i x[d.]  pro  uno  integro 
[milite]  et  dimidio  de  feodo  Montis  Acuti. 

Walterus  de  Esseleye,  Ixviijs.  i xc£.  de  parvis  feodis. 

Ricardus  de  Raleye,  xxs. 

Robertus  de  Briues,  xijs.  vjd  pro  uno  de  parvis 
feodis. 

Reginaldus  filius  Willelmi,  xxs. 

SUDHAMTESIRA. 

Adam  de  Port  filius  Johannis  de  Port,  1  vl. ;  de 
novo,  xls. 

Robertus  de  Ponte  Arche,  xxs. 

Episcopus  Wintoniensis,  Ixl.,  per  Archidiaconum 
Pictaviae ;  et  xxiiiji.  xs.  de  illis  quos  non  recognoscit, 
quia  Episcopatus  est  in  manu  Regis. 

Lincolnesira. 

Ricardus  de  Haya,  xx£. 

Hugo  de  Baiocis,  xvj l.  xvijs. ;  de  novo,  iiijA  iiijs. 

Willelmus  Martel,  vs. 

Thomas  de  Aree}7,  xxZ. ;  de  novo,  xvs. 

Simon  de  Cancy,  cs. 


A.D. 

1171-2. 


Fo.  58. 


56 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D 

1171-2. 


Lambertus  de  Scoteygni,  xl. ;  de  novo,  xvs. 

Simon  de  Crevequer,  xiij  L  xs. 

Otuel  de  Insula,  xxs. 

Episcopus  Lincolniensis,  lx£.,  per  Archidiaconum  Pic- 
tavim ;  et  xliiij£.  de  illis  quos  non  recognoscit,  quia 
Episcopatus  est  in  manu  Regis. 


Devonesira. 

Episcopus  Exoniensis,  xvij l.  xs. ;  et  xviij£.  ijs.  iiijcZ.  de 
militibus  quos  non  recognoscit  se  debere  Regi. 

Abbas  de  Tavistoke,  xvj£. ;  de  novo,  xxxs. 

Willelmus  de  Tracy,  xxvj  l.  vs. 

Willelmus  Peverel,  xs.  de  feodo  quod  est  in  manu 
sua. 

Radulfus  Sanz  Aver,  xxs. 

Robertus  filius  Galfridi,  xxs. 

Willelmus  filius  Reginaldi,  xxs. 

Radulfus  de  Valle  Torta,  xxs. 

Ricardus  Brito,  xs. 

Comes  Reginaldus,  ccxvl.  vjs.  viijd.  de  militibus  suis 
in  Cornubia  et  Devonia. 


Staffordsira. 

Episcopus  Cestrensis,  xvl. ;  de  quibus  Rogerus  de 
Sanphorde,  xxs. 

Bertram  de  Verdone,  xxs. 

Salopsira. 

In  hoc  comitatu  nullum  invenitur  hoc  anno  scu 
tagium. 

Warwika.  Leycestresira. 

Prior  Coventrim,  xl. 

Comes  Leycestrise,  cxljk  xvijs.  vj d.,  per  veredictum 
Dapiferi,  de  parvis  feodis  de  Moretonia. 

Honor  de  Beuvoir,  xxxiijk ;  de  novo,  iiij£.,  quia  honor 
est  in  manu  Regis. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


57 


Cantebrige.  Huntingdonesira.  a.d. 

1171-2. 

Abbas  de  Ramesie,  iiij^. 

Albricus  Picot,  xxs. 

Henricus  de  Scalariis,  x\7.  xs. 

Willelmus  de  Scalariis,  xvl. 

Robertus  de  Gimeges,  xx.s. 

Warnerus  Engaygne,  xs. 

Honor  de  Brunne,  cs. 

Episcopus  Ely  ensis,  x\l.  de  hiis  quos  recognoscit ;  de 
quibus  in  dominico  Regis  de  Calevelega,  xxs.,  et  in 
feodo  Lucae  de  Terlinges  quod  Rex  habet,  xxs. 

Idem,  xxxiij£.  xs.  de  militibus  quos  non  recognoscit ;  Fo.  58  d. 
qui  ideo  redduntur  quia  Episcopatus  est  in  manu  Regis. 

De  quibus  in  dominico  Regis  de  Papes worde  sunt  xxs. ;  et 
in  Herdwice,  vs. 


Gloucestresira. 

Abbas  Winchecumbise,  xls. 

Rogerus  de  Berclay,  vij l.  xs. 

Robertus  de  Escrope,  xls. 

Radulfus  de  Sudlega,  lxiijs.,  scilicet,  de  tribus  partibus 
et  duabus  quintis  [partibus]  de  veteri,  et  duobus  [militi¬ 
bus]  de  novo. 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato,  xvij7.  xjs.  iiijd. ;  et  de 
novo,  xxiiijs. 

Patricius  de  Chaorcis,  xixl. ;  de  novo,  dimidiam  marcam. 

WlLTESIRA. 

Episcopus  Sarrisberiensis,  xxxijL ;  et  xj£.  ijs.  de  hiis 
quos  non  recognoscit. 

Abbatissa  Wiltoniae,  cs. 

Ricardus  de  Grenestede,  xxs. 

Willelmus  de  Londonia,  xxs. 

Warnerus  de  Lisures,  xxs. 

Godefridus  de  Squidmor,  iiiji. ;  de  novo  xxs. 

Gerardus  Giffard,  xxs. 


58 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1171-2. 


A.D. 

1186-7. 

Fo.  59. 


Omfridus  de  Sancto  Vigore,  xs. 

Elias  Giffard,  ixl. 

Willelmus  filius  Comitis  Patricii,  lvj  l.  xvjs. ;  de  novo,  xl.s. 

Henricus  filius  Herberti,  xxs. 

Abbas  Malmesbiriae,  lxs. 

Sudsexa. 

Episcopus  Cicestrensis,  iiij l.,  per  manum  Archidiaconi 
Cicestrise,  et  viij£.  de  illis  quos  non  recognoscit,  quia 
Episcopatus  est  in  manu  Regis. 

Comes  de  Augo,  lxvji.  xs.,  per  Comitem  Arundelli. 

Robertus  de  Praeres,  xs. 

Roulond  de  Dinan,  xls.,  sicut  Vicecomes  dicit,  in  hoc 
comitatu. 

Radulfus  de  Tony,  xls.  similiter  per  Vicecomitem  in 
hoc  comitatu. 

Comes  Warenme,  Ixl. 

Jocelinus  frater  Reginae,  xiiiji. 


ANNUS  XXXIIIUS  REGIS  HENRICI  SECUNDI. 
Anno  xxxiii0  Regis  Henrici  fuit  assisum  scutagium 

GALWELE  ;  ET  FUIT  ASSISUM  AD  XX.  SOLIDOS. 

Kent. 

Walterus  de  Meduana,  xvl. 

Willelmus  de  Ros,  vijh 
Abbas  Sancti  Augustini,  xvl. 

Eugenia  Picot,  xs. 

Honor  de  Kemesinges,  xxixs.,  per  Vicecomitem. 
Feodum  Eudonis  Dapiferi,  videlicet,  Scolland[us]  et 
Willelmus  de  Barmelinges,  xls.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Honor  Piperelli  de  Dovra,  xiiij£.  xixs.,  secundum  quod 
Vicecomes  potuit  invenire. 

Agnes  de  Monte  Kanisii,  xvl. 

Ernulfus  Biset,  xxxs. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


59 


SURREIA. 

Abbas  Certesie,  lxs.  de  militibus  quos  recognoscit. 


A.D. 

1186-7. 


W IRECESTRESIR  A. 

Episcopus  Wigornierisis,  xli xl. ;  de  quibus  in  terris 
datis  quas  Rex  tenet  de  feodo  Episcopatus,  lxs.,  et  in 
feodo  Comitis  Gloucestriae  quod  Rex  tenet,  xxs. 

Abbas  de  Evesham,  iiijZ.  xs. 

Abbas  de  Persore,  xvs. 

Abbas  Westmonasterii,  xvZ.  ;  de  quibus  in  dominico 
Regis  de  Stokes  quod  Rex  tenet  de  feodo  Alberici,  xxs. 

Libere  tenentes  de  Stokes,  xxxs.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Rogerus  de  Tony,  cxs.,  per  Vicecomitem,  de  militibus 
in  baillia  sua. 


•  Bukingham  et  Bedeforde. 

Willelmus  de  Windesores,  xxZ. 

Hamon  filius  Meynfelin,  xvZ. 

Johannes  de  Bidon,  c xs.,  per  Willelmum  de  Bello 
Campo. 

Jolent  Visus  Lupi,  vjs.  de  parte  sua  de  Abintone. 
Agnes  de  Bereville,  vjs.  viijd. 

Robertus  de  Sancto  Remigio,  xxs. 


OxONEFORDSIRA. 

Oliver  de  Linguire,  xxs. 

Ricardus  de  Oyli,  xs. 

Ranulfus  de  Pratellis,  xvjs. 
Osbertus  de  Hecldendone,  xlcZ. 
Radulfus  Murdak,  xls. 

Walterus  de  Aencurt,  xxs. 


60 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1186-7. 


Norfolcia  et  Suffolcia. 

Episcopus  Norwicensis,  xll.  de  militibus  quos  recog¬ 
noscit. 

Abbas  Sancti  Eadmundi,  x\l. 

Abbas  de  Hulmo,  lxxviijs. 

Hubertus  Blunclus,  viji. 

Rogerus  de  Kenetwelle,  xl. 

Stephanus  de  Kaliaygnes,  xxs. 

Reginaldus  de  Leyham,  xls. 

Walkelin  Visus  Lupi,  xxs. 

Willelmus  Talemasche,  xxs. 

Eustacbius  de  Braham,  xxs. 

Engeram  de  Vilers,  xxs. 

Wiganus  de  Grimstede,  vs. 

Willelmus  Peverellus  filius  Mathmi,  cs. 

Odo  de  Danmartin,  xxs. 

Comes  Albericus  de  Danmartin,  xxs. ;  et  in  perdono, 
xxs. 


Devenesira. 

Episcopus  Exoniensis,  x\l.  xs.  de  militibus  quos  re¬ 
cognoscit,  et  xviij£.  ijs.  iiijd.  de  aliis  quos  non  recog¬ 
noscit. 

Abbas  de  Tavistoke,  xvj  l. 

Galfridus  dei  Estre,  xxs. 

Henricus  de  la  Pomeraye,  xxxj£.  xviijs.  iiijd. 

Robertus  filius  Willelmi,  xxs. 

Alicia  de  Nonant,  cs.,  per  Vicecomitem ;  de  libere 
tenentibus  de  Dertintone,  quse  seisita  est  in  manu  Regis 
eo  quod  dicta  Alicia  nupsit  sine  licentia  Regis ;  et  xxs. 
de  dote  ipsius  de  novo  fefiamento  seisita. 

Willelmus  filius  Martin,  lxs.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Willelmus  Torel,  xxvs.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Willelmus  de  Breose,  xxviij£.  de  honore  de  Berde- 
staple. 


Fo.  59  d. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


61 


A.D. 

1186-7. 


CORNUBIA. 

Walterus  Hay,  xij£.  xs.  pro  xx  militibus,  pro  quo¬ 
libet,  xijs.  vjd. 

Nicholaus  filius  Galfridi,  vjs.  vd.  pro  militibus  suis  de 
minutis  feodis. 

Willelmus  de  Boterellis,  vij£.  xs.  pro  xij  militibus  de 
minutis  feodis. 

Alanus  Blohunt,  iiij£.  vijs.  vjd.  pro  vij  militibus. 

Gervasius  filius  Willelmi,  lxijs.  vjd.  pro  v  militibus. 

Willelmus  filius  Comitis,  ls.  pro  iiij  militibus. 

Willelmus  filius  Ricardi,  lxijs.  vj d.  pro  v  militibus. 

Radulfus  de  Rupe,  xljs.  viijd.  pro  iij  [militibus]  et  tertia 
parte  j  militis. 

Willelmus  Oliver,  xviijs.  i xd.  de  uno  milite  et  dimidio, 
per  Vicecomitem. 

Henricus  de  Tredaleb’,1  xviijs.  ixd.  pro  uno  milite  et 
dimidio,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Engulfus,  xijs.  vj  d.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Ricardus  filius  Yvonis,  vjs.  iijti,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Johannes  de  Soleygni,  iijs.  j  d. 

Stephanus  Flandrensis,  iiij ^ .  vijs.  vjd.  pro  vij  mili¬ 
tibus. 

Alanus  de  Dunstanville,  xij.2 

Rogerus  Anglicus,  xijs.  vjd. 

Lincolnesira. 

Episcopus  Lincolniensis,  1  xl.  de  veteri  feffamento  de 
militibus  quos  recognoscit. 

Oliverus  de  Aencurt,  xxxvl. 


Staffordsira. 

Episcopus  Cestrensis,  xvl. 

Bertram  de  Verdone,  xxs.  pro  uno  milite. 


1  Tredach. — T.  R. 


2  Sic  in  MS.  xijs.  vj  d. — T.  R. 


62 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1186-7. 


Martinus  Martel,  vs. 

Philippus  filius  Roberti  filius  Hugonis,  xxvl. 

Willelmus  de  Bereville,  xld. 

Cantebrige.  Huntingdone. 

Episcopus  Elyensis,  xll.  de  illis  quos  recognoscit;  de 
quibus,  in  dominico  Regis  de  Cbalvelega,  xxs. ;  in  feodo 
Lucse  de  Terlinges  quod  Rex  habet,  xxs. 

Willelmus  de  Scalariis,  xvl. 

Ricardus  de  Lovetot,  xl.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Abbas  Ramesiee,  iiij  l. 

Robertus  de  Insures,  xxl.,  per  Robertum  de  Gimeges. 

Ricardus  filius  Garini  Engaygne,  xs.  ;  sed  calump- 
niatur  quod  Meurik  filius  Rogeri  de  Powis  habet 
medietatem  feodi  per  Regem  et  inde  debet  respondere. 

Ricardus  de  Lovetot,  cs.,  prseter  xl. ;  unde  reddit 
compotum  supra. 

Eboracsira. 

Archiepiscopatus  Eboracensis,  xxl.  de  militibus  quos 
recognoscit,  et  xxvij£.  ixs.  viijd.  de  aliis  quos  non  recog¬ 
noscit,  per  Laurentium  Archidiaconum  Bedefordise  et 
Magistrum  Rogerum  Arundel,  qui  ideo  redduntur,  quia 
Archiepiscopatus  est  in  manu  Regis. 

Honor  Albredse  de  Insula  de  Sectrintone,  xxl.,  per 
Vicecomitem,  de  quibus  xs.  sunt  in  dominico  honoris 
Willelmi  de  Vescy,  et  lijs.  iiij cZ.  de  militibus  quos  non 
recognoscit,  quia  honor  est  in  manu  Regis. 

Willelmus  Paganellus  de  Alta  Ripa,  iiji.,  per  Vice¬ 
comitem. 

Robertus  Walensis,  xs. 

Galfridus  Trussebut,  xxs. 

Norhamtesira. 

Abbas  de  Burgo,  lx  milites  de  illis  quos  recognoscit, 
de  quibus  in  dominico  Regis  de  honore  Piperelli,  xs.  ; 
Vicecomes  hujus  anni,  xxs. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


63 


Willelmus  filius  Roberti,  xs. 

Robertus  de  Chokes,  xvl. ;  de  quibus  in  perdonis 
Willelmo  de  Betune,  ls. ;  Sayero  de  Quency,  xxs. 

Robertus  de  Cortenay,  lxs. 

Olneye,  escaeta,  xxxvs.,  per  Yicecomitem. 

Heyham,  escaeta,  lvijs.  viijd. 

Alicia  de  Bello  Fago,  xs.,  per  Willelmum  Mauduit. 

Dorsete  et  Sumersete. 

Episcopus  Bathoniensis,  xxl. 

Abbas  Glastonise,  xR.  de  illis  quos  recognoscit,  et 
iiij7.  xs.  de  aliis  quos  non  recognoscit,  per  Radulfum 
filium  Stephani. 

Honor  Willelmi  de  Curcy,  Dapiferi,  xlvl.  xs.,  per 
custodem  tam  de  illo  honore  quam  de  honore  Willelmi 
de  Meschin,  tam  de  novo  quam  veteri.  De  quibus 
in  perdonis  Simoni  filio  Simonis,  viij£. ;  Johelendo  de 
Neville,  xs. ;  Henrico  de  Cramaville,  xxs. 

Philippus  de  Columbers,  xl.,  per  Matilldem  de 
Champdos. 

W  illelmus  filius  Willelmi,  lxs.,  per  Hugonem  de 
Cressy. 

Walterus  Brito,  i  xl.  vijs.  vjd.,  per  Yicecomitem. 

Hugo  de  Corcellis,  xxs. 

Willelmus  filius  Galfridi,  xs. 

Ricardus  de  Atrio,  ls.,  per  Yicecomitem,  de  feodo 
Montis  Acuti. 

Henricus  de  Cultura,  xxs. 

Alexander  de  Aluou,  xxs. 

Philippus  filius  Roberti,  xxs. 

Galfridus  de  Mondeville,  xxs. 

Abbas  Muchelneise,  xxs. 

Abbas  de  Abbedesbiria,  xxs. 

Abbas  de  Cerne,  xls. 

Willelmus  Martel,  xls.,  sed  calumpniatur  quietantiam 
per  Pincernariam. 

Robertus  Belet,  xxs. 


A.D. 

1186-7. 


Fo.  60. 


64 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.l). 

1 1 80— 7. 


Willelmus  de  Chahaygnes,  ixl.  pro  ix  militibus,  sed 
recognitum  est  quod  sunt  de  parvis  feodis. 

Abbas  Sireburniae,  xliiijs. 

Abbatissa  Sancti  Edwardi,  lxs.  praeter  illos  in  Wilte- 
sira. 

Willelmus  filius  Martini,  cxvijs.  viijd.,  per  recogni¬ 
tionem  suam. 

Robertus  Malherbe  et  Brianus  de  Magene  et  Willelmus 
Osturel,  xxs. 

Alanus  Boterel,  xs. 

Robertus  de  Akeford,  xijs.  vjd.  de  feodo  Montis  Acuti. 

Adam  de  Port  de  Wallia,  xvs.  de  j  feodo,  per  Yice- 
comitem. 


Notingham  et  Dereby. 

Rogerus  de  Buron,  xl. 

Hasculfus  Musard,  xij[Z.],  per  Vicecomitem;  et  de 
novo,  ljs.  iijci 

Willelmus  de  Chaorciis,  xxs.  , 

Henricus  de  Stoteville,  xvl.  de  feodo  quod  est  inter 
ipsum  et  Hubertum  filium  Radulfi. 

Honor  Piperelli,  lxl.  xvjs.,  per  Vicecomitem ;  de 
quibus  in  dominico  Regis  de  Empinge[ham],  xx.s.;  et  in 
Bolesovra,  ls.  ;  et  in  Basselawe,  xxs.  ;  et  in  Stapelforde, 
xxs. ;  et  in  feodo  de  Moretonia  in  manu  Regis,  xxs.  ; 
et  in  perdonis  P[etro]  de  Goldintone,  cs. ;  et  Waltero 
Bek,  xxs. 

Honor  Willelmi  de  Lovetot  de  Halumsira,  xxs.,  per 
Vicecomitem. 


WlLTESIRA. 

Episcopatus  Sarrisbiriae,  xxxij^.  de  recognitis,  et  viij l.  xs. 
de  non  recognitis ;  sed  per  custodes  Episcopatus. 

Humfridus  de  Bohun,  xxxl.  xs.  de  veteri  [feffamento] ; 
et  i  xl.  xs.  de  novo,  per  Margaretam  de  Bohun  quae  habet 
custodiam. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SOACCARIO. 


65 


Abbatissa  de  Wiltonia,  c s.  A.D. 

Walterus  de  Grimeste,  xxs.  1 186-7. 

Willelmus  de  Londonia,  xxs. 

Willelmus  de  Insures,  xxs. 

Robertus  Giffard,  xx.s. 

Humpfridus  de  Sancto  Vigore,  xs. 

Elias  Giffard,  ixs. 

Abbas  Malmesbiriae,  lxs. 

Abbatissa  Sancti  Edwardi,  iiij^. 

Cumbe  et  Colerme  Comitis  Reginaldi,  vj7.  xvs.,  per 
Vicecomitem. 

Walterus  de  Clifford,  xxs.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Robertus  Maud  ait,  xxs.  de  feodo  j  militis  in  Wer- 
munstre. 

Norhumbrelande.  • 

Robertus  de  Develestone,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Godefridus  Baiard,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Sudsexa. 

Episcopus  Cicestrensis,  iiij  l.  de  hiis  quos  recognoscit. 

Honor  Arundelli,  iiijxxiiij£.  xs.,  per  Vicecomitem.  In 
perdonis  Willelmo  de  Sancto  Johanne,  xij£.  ;  Willelmo 
de  Homez,  Constabulario,  xls.  Willelmo  filio  Alani,  Fo.  eod. 
xxs.;  Willelmo  de  Alta  Ripa,  liiijs. ;  Radulfo  Sanz  Aver, 
xxxs. ;  Radulfo  de  Erderne,  xxxs. 

Gilberlus  de  Aquila,  xxj£.  xvijs.  vj d.,  videlicet,  de 
unoquoque  [feodo],  xijs.  vj  d. 

Comes  de  Augo,  lxvj£.  xs. 

Willelmus  de  Braosa,  xxl. 

Willelmus  filius  Ricardi  de  Kahaygnes,  cxijs.  vj  d. ; 
scilicet,  de  unoquoque  [feodo],  xijs.  vj  d. 

Warwika  et  Leycestresira. 

Prior  Coventriae,  xl. 

Emme  de  Dummart,  xxs.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Rogerus  de  Brayles,  ijs.  xd.,  per  Vicecomitem. 


63377. 


E 


66 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


a.d.  Essexa  et  Hertfordsira. 

1186-7. 

Ricardus  de  Rames,  xl. 

Robertus  de  Helion,  xl.  de  veteri,  per  Vicecomitem  ; 
et  xxxijs.  xd.  de  novo  feffamento,  quia  honor  est  in  manu 
Reois. 

o 

Abbas  Sancti  Albani,  vj£. 

Hugo  filius  Stephani,  xxs. 

Walterus  de  Windesores,  xxxs.  de  feodo  quod  tenet  de 
Ricardo  de  Monte  Fichet,  qui  ideo  redduntur  quia  sunt  in 
manu  Regis. 

Radulfus  Brito,  xs.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Honor  de  Berkhamstede,  xiiij£.  ijs.  iijd.,  per  veredic- 
tum  Ricardi  Ruffi  custodis,  scilicet,  de  quolibet  feodo, 
xijs.  vj  d. 

Honor  Piperelli  Londonise,  tam  de  veteri  quam  novo 
[feffamento],  quia  honor  est  in  manu  Regis,  lvij£.  iijs.  iiijcZ., 
per  Vicecomitem  ;  de  quibus  in  perdonis  Tli ornee  Bardulf, 
xxs. ;  Radulfo  de  Beseville,  xls. 

Willelmus  de  Escalariis,  in  Mundene,  xjs.  viijti,  per 
Vicecomitem. 

Honor  Constabulariae,  Ivjl.  xijs.,  per  custodem ;  de 
quibus  in  dominico  Regis  de  Benstede  et  parva  Wilun- 
tone,  xxxs. 


Hereford  in  Wallia. 

Episcopus  Herfordiensis,  xxl.,  de  quii  us  Hugo  de 
Lascy,  xls. 

Robertus  de  Ewias,  xixl. 

Hugo  de  Lascy,  lj l.  vs.  de  veteri  et  xj£.  ijs.  de  novo 
[feffamento],  per  Radulfum  de  Arundel,  quia  honor  est 
in  manu  Regis.  De  quibus  in  perdonis  Ranulfo  de 
Glanville  [et]  Willelmo  de  Salceto,  iiij£.  ;  Henrico  de 
Solariis,  xxs. ;  decem  militibus  qui  faciunt  gwardam  in 
Strawordin,  xl. 

Walterus  de  Cormeiles,  vj£. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


67 


Gloucestresira. 

Abbas  Winchelcumbiae,1  xls. 

Margareta  de  Bohun,  xvij£. 

Mauricius  de  Berkelay,  c s. 

Nicholaus  frater  ejus,  xs. 

Willelmus  Comes,  xxxs. 

Honor  de  Strigoil,  praeter  Walenses,  \xvl.  xs.  De 
quibus  ;  in  perdonis  Evae,  Comitissae  de  Strogoil,  xl.  ; 
Simoni  filio  Simonis,  iiij A  ;  Abbati  de  Waltam,  xls,  ; 
Canonicis  de  Peritone,  xxs.,  per  Radulfum  Blohet. 

Honor  Gloucestriae,  cccxxvijL  iijs.  tam  de  veteri  quam 
novo  [feffamento],  per  Hugonem  Bardulfum,  qui  ideo 
redduntur  quia  honor  est  in  manu  Regis.  De  quibus 
in  perdonis  Ricardo  de  Kaerdif,  xxxvj.s.  viijd. ;  Johanni 
filio  Lucae  Pincernae,  xxs.  ;  Hamelino  de  Torintone,  xxs. ; 
Henrico  de  Ponte  Audomari,  xxs. ;  Almarico  Dispen¬ 
satori,  c  s. 

Berkesira. 

Abbas  Abbendoniae,  xxxl. 

Robertus  de  SifFrewast,  xxs. 

Holnad  de  Siffrewast,  xxs. 

Johannes  Marscallus,  xvs.,  per  Ricardum  filium  Rogeri. 

Alvredus  Belet,  iiijs. 

Toroldus  de  Pesemere,  xs. 

Willelmus  de  Erlega,  xxvjs.  viijd,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Hugo  de  Stotebroke,  xs.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Marsilia  Vis  de  Lou,  vjs.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Elias  de  Hintone,  xvj.s.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

SUDHAMTESIRA. 

Episcopus  Wintoniensis,  1  xl. 

Robertus  de  Ponte  Arche,  xxs. 

Abbas  de  Hida,  xxl. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


E  2 


A.D. 

1186-7 


Fo.  61 


68 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  Mathaeus  Croke,  xxs. 

18  6-7.  Willelmus  de  Faleisa,  xxs. 

Ada  Cotele,  xs. 

Thomas  de  Coluncis,  xs.,  per  Vicecomitem  pro  Nigello 
Anglico. 


Fo.  61  d.  EX  ROTULO  HONORUM  ANNO  REGIS 

HENRIOI  XXXIII0. 

Honor  Eustachii  de  Vescy  et  Rogeri  de 
Mortuo  Mari. 

Custos  terrae  Eustachii  de  Yescy,  xxiiiji.  vijs.  viijd., 
et  de  novo,  cxs.  liijd.,1  quia  honor  est  in  manu  Regis. 
De  quibus  in  perdonis  Hugoni  de  Morwich,  xxs. ;  in 
feodo  Radulfi  filii  Maini  quod  est  in  manu  Regis,  xxs. ; 
Henrico  de  Valoniis,  xxs.  ;  Roberto  de  Caugy,  xs.  ; 
Willelmo  Toneir,  xxs. 

Idem  de  cxs.  de  v  militibus  et  dimidio  de  feodo  Rogeri 
de  Mortuo  Mari  quorum  servitium  datum  fuit  in  mari- 
tagiurn  praedecessori  Willelmi  et  nondum  pervenit  ad 
tertium  heredem. 

Idem  de  ls.  de  relev[i]o  dimidii  militis  Willelmi 
Mautalent,  de  feodo  ejusdem  Willelmi  de  Yescy. 

Custos,  lxs.  de  militibus  ejusdem  honoris. 

Honor  Comitis  Gloucestri^e. 

Custos  terrae  Comitis  Gloucestriae  non  respondet  in 
aliqua  summa ;  sed,  ibidem,  Henricus  de  Umfranc ville, 
xlvi.  de  relevio  ix  militum  de  feodo  Comitis  Rogeri  de 
Maysi,  xl \l.  de  relevio  ix  militum  de  eodem  feodo.2 

Honor  Lanc astrice. 

Custos  honoris  Lancastriae  de  lxviij/.  xijd.  de  h iis 
quos  invenire  potuit.  Et  in  perdonis  3  Abbati  de  Gres- 


1  Sic  in  MS.,  but  the  figures  have 

been  altered,  c s.  &  xs.  &  iijrf. — T.  R. 


2  Sic  in  MS. 

3  Et  in  feodo. — T.R, 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


69 


lega,  xij£. ;  Rogero  de  Monte  Begonis,  vj£. ;  extra 
comitatum ;  Rogero  Esturmi,  xxs. ;  Ranulfo  de  Glan- 
ville,  xxs.1 

Item,  Rogero  Esturmi,  xxs.  pro  feodo  j  militis  quod 
Rex  illi  perdonavit  pro  piscaria  de  Oreford  quae  fuit 
de  feodo  illius  ibidem. 

Thomas  de  Goldeburgo,  ij m.  et  dimidium  de  relevio 
tertiae  partis  [militis]. 


A.D 

1186-7 


Honor  Willelmi  Paganelli. 

Custos  terrae  Willelmi  Paignel,  cxjs.  de  scutagio  mili¬ 
tum  suorum. 


Honor  de  Walingeford. 

Custo3  honoris  de  Walingeford,  c l.  xvs.  de  militibus. 
Et  in  perdonis  Gilberto  Basset,  vijZ. ;  Almarico  filio 
Radulfi,  iiij£. ;  Miloni  de  Dantesie,  xxs. ;  Ranulfo  de 
Glanville  et  Gilberto  Pippard,  vj7. ;  Alano  Basset,  xls. ; 
Roberto  de  Witefeld,  vs. ;  Willelmo  Paganello,  iiij£. ; 
Roberto  de  Taydene,  lxs. ;  Mathaeo  de  Bruera,  xs.  ;  Moni- 
alibus  de  Godestowe,  dimidiam  marcam ;  in  dominico 
Regis  de  Chaugrave,  lx.s.  ;  Rolent  de  Auvers,  xxs. ;  in 
Thenford,  xxs. ;  in  Rincote,  xx[.s.]  ;  in  Geitbamtone,  xxs. 

Honor  Comitis  Giffardi. 

Custos  terrae  Comitis  Giffardi,  iiijxxvj7.,  unde  in 
Wottone,  Chiltone,  Messendene  sunt  iiiji. 

Honor  Comitis  Cestrle. 

Custos  terrae  Comitis  Cestriae,  cxvij^.  xixs.  vijd.,  tam 
de  illis  quos  recognoscit  se  debere  Regi  quam  illis  quos 


1  xxs.  repeated  in  MS. 


70 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1186-7. 


A.D. 
1190-1. 
Eo.  62. 


habet  de  superplus,  proster  illos  qui  sunt  in  Cestresira 
et  in  Wallia,  et  praeter  illos  qui  fuerunt  in  exercitu 
Galweyae. 

Idem  de  xiij l.  xs.  de  honore  de  Felteford  qui  pertinet 
ad  honorem  Cestriae. 

De  reliquis  honoribus  nichil. 


ANNO  SECUNDO  REGIS  RICARDI  FUIT 
SCUTAGIUM  W ALLUE  ASSISUM  AD  Xs. 

Kent. 

Comitissa  Hereford  quae  fuit  uxor  Walter  i  de  Me- 
duana,  xiiij k  xs.  de  scutagio  militum  de  veteri  feffa- 
mento — xxix  milites. 

Simon  de  Abrincis,  xl.  xvs.  de  eodem  de  veteri  [feffa- 
mento] — xxj  [milites]  et  dimidium. 

Heredes  Willelmi  filii  Hent,  xxxvs. — iij  [milites]  et 
dimidium. 

Heredes  Walkelini  Mamignot,  xiiji.  xs. — xxvij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Crevequer,  vijk — xiiij  milites.2 

Heredes  Willelmi  de  Ros,  lxxs. — vij  milites. 

SURREIA. 

Abbas  Certesiae,  xxxs. — iij  milites. 

OxONEFORD. 

Alexander  Arsic,  xl.  ijs.  vjd. — xx  milites  et  quartam. 

Gerardus  de  Campville,  xs. — j  militem. 

Oliver  de  Linguire,  xs. — j  militem. 

Stephanus  de  Hamton,  xs. — j  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Galfridi,  xs.  de  feodo  quod  fuit 
Walkelini  Hareng — j  militem. 


2  x iij  in  MS.,  altered  to  xiiij  in  a  later  hand. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


71 


Bukingham.  Bedefoed. 

Walterus  de  Windesores  et  Willelmus  de  Windesores, 
ixl.  xxd. — xviij  milites  et  vja  pars.1 

Willelmus  Mauduit,  Camerarius,  xvijs.  vjd. — j  militem 
et  tres  partes. 

Albericus  de  Ver,  c s.  de  feodo  quod  fuit  WT alteri  de 
Bolebeke — xx  milites.1 

Bicardus  de  Sciriutone,  xxs. — ij  milites. 

Herbertus  de  Bolebeke,  xs. — j  militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Nigelli,  xvs. — -j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Hugo  de  Kahaygnes,  dimidiam  marcam — iiijor  partes2  3 
militis. 

Hamo  filius  Hamonis  filii  Meinf elini,  vij£.  xs. — xv 
milites. 

Henricus  de  Pingkeygni,  vj l.  xvjs.1 — xiij  milites  et 
dimidium. 

Milo  de  Bello  Campo,  xvs. — -j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Hugo  de  Bello  Campo,  xxs. — ij  milites. 

Gervasius  Paganellus,  lxxixs.  ijd. 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato,  xs. — j  militem. 

Comes  Albericus,  iiijors.  i xcl. 

Agnes  de  Montcbanesi,  xiijs. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  ijs. 

Robertus  de  Pingkeigni,  xvs. — j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Advocatus  de  Betun,  vijs.  vjd. — iij  partes. 

Johannes  Visus  Lupi,  vs. — dimidium  militem. 
Johannes  de  Cranford,  vs. — dimidium  militem. 
Johannes  filius  Hugonis,  xvc?. 

Staffordsira. 

Episcopus  Coventrensis,  vij l.  xs.,  de  quibus  xixs.  ij d. 
sunt  de  diversis  Comitatibus  Moreton[ise] — xv  milites. 
Gervasius  Paganellus,  xxvl. — 1  milites. 

Robertus  de  Stafford,  xxxl. — lx  milites. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


2  Sic  in  MS.  ;  De  ij  partibus  mi¬ 

litis. — T.R. 


A.D. 

1190-1. 


72 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SC  ACC  ARIO. 


A.D.  NORHUMBERLANDE. 

1190-1. 

Vicecomes  de  xxl.  xxijcZ.  de  scutagio  militum  Nor- 
humberlande. 

WlGORNSIRA. 

Episcopus  Wigorniensis,  xxxiiij£.  xiijs. 

Abbas  de  Evesham,  xlvs. — iiij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Abbas  de  Persora,  xxs. — ij  milites. 

Abbas  Westmonasterii,  vij  l.  xs. — xv  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Bello  Campo,  lxxs.  de  militibus,  quos 
tenet  de  Rege  in  diversis  comitatibus — vij  milites. 

Norhamtescira. 

Abbas  de  Burgo,  xxxl.  de  militibus  qui  non  fuerunt 
in  exercitu — lx  milites. 

Robertas  filius  Alberici,  vs. — dimidium  militem. 
Ricardus  Basset,  vij l.  xs. — xv  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Bectone,  viji.  xs.  de  feodo  de  Chokes — 
xv  milites. 

SUDSEXA. 

Episcopus  Cicestrensis,  xls. — iiij  milites. 

Comes  Arundel,  xlijL  vs. — iiij  “iiij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Gilbertus  de  Aquila,  xj l.  jm.,  scilicet,  dimidiam 
marcam  pro  milite. 

Henricus  de  Augo,  xxxiij£.  vjs.  viijd.. 

Willelmus  de  Breosa.1  . 

Henricus  de  Percy. 

Capellaria  de  Boseham. 

Willelmus  de  Sancto  Johanne. 

Robertus  Peverellus. 

Willelmus  filius  Ricardi  de  Chahaygnes. 

Fo.  62  d.  SUDHAMTESCIRA. 

Episcopus  Wintoniensis,  xxxl. — lx  milites. 

Adam  de  Port,  xxviji.  xs. — lv  milites. 


1  Sic  in  MS.  and  T.  R. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


73 


Robertus  de  Ponte  Arche,  xs. — -j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Aldelin,  xijs.  vjd. 

Abbas  de  Hida,  xl. — xx  milites. 

Gloucestresira. 

Margareta  de  Bobun,  viij l.  xs. — xvij  milites. 

Mauricius  de  Berkelay,  ls. — v  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Berkelay,  lxxvs. — vij  [milites]  et  dimi¬ 
dium. 

Ricardus  de  Srupis,  xxxs. — iij  milites. 

Patricius  de  Chaurcis,  vj l.  vs. — -xij  [milites]  et  dimi¬ 
dium. 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato,  viij  l.  xvs.  viijc?. 

Radulfus  de  Sudlega,  xj.s.  vjd. 

Abbas  Winchelcumbse,  xxs. 

Alardus  Flemeng,  xs. — j  militem. 

Radulphus  filius  Stephani,  xs. — j  militem. 

Johannes  de  Hastinges,  ls. — v  milites. 

Berkesire. 

Willelmus  Achard,  xs. — j  militem. 

Halnod  de  Siffrewast,  xs. — j  militem. 

Abbas  Abbendonise,  xvl. — xxx  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Rotlande,  xs. — j  militem. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  xxs. —  ij  milites. 

Turoldus  de  Pesemere,  vs. — dimidium  militem. 
Ricardus  de  Oyli,  xs. — j  militem. 

W ILTESCIRA. 

Episcopus  Sarrisbiriensis,  xvjl. — xxxij  milites. 
Hunpridus  de  Bohun,  xvl.  vs. — xxx  [milites]  et  di¬ 
midium. 

Abbatissa  Wiltonise,  ls. — v  milites. 

Walterus  Waleran,  xl. — xx  milites. 

Walterus  de  Grenestede,  xs. — j  militem. 

Robertus  Gifiard,  xs. — j  militem. 

Hunpridus  de  Sancto  Vigore,  v[s.] — dimidium  militem. 


A.D. 

1190-1. 


74 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1190-1. 


Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  xs. — -j  militem. 

Elias  Giffard,  iiij7.  xs. — ix  milites. 

Robertus  de  Mara,  xxs. — ij  milites. 

Comes  Sarrisbirise,  xxviij£.  vjs.  viijd. 

Abbas  Malmesbirise,  xxxs. — iij  milites. 

Thomas  de  Cosselega,  xs. — -j  militem. 

Galfridus  filius  Azonis,  ijs. 

Robertus  de  Ponte  Arche,  xijd. 

Galfridus  Hese,  xs. — -j  militem. 

Herford  in  W allia. 

Episcopus  Herefordiensis,  vij  l.  xs. — xv  milites. 
Walterus  de  Cormeilles,  c s. — x  milites. 

Baderun  de  Munemue,  vij  i.  xs. — xv  milites. 

Robertus  de  Ewias,  i xl.  xs. — xix  milites. 

Osbertus  filius  Hugonis,  xj£.  xs. — xxiij  milites. 
Robertus  de  Chamdos,  vj£.  xjs.  viijd. 

Walterus  de  Lascy,  xxvl.  xijs.  vjd. 

Reginaldus  de  Baalun,  xs. — j  militem. 

Feoda  Adse  de  Port  de  Kinetone,  x]l.  vjs.  vjd 

Warwic.  Leycestresira. 

Episcopus  Coventrensis,  cs.  de  militibus  Prioris,  quia 
Prioratus  est  in  manu  sua. 

Robertus  Marmion,  cxiiijs.  vjd. 

Comes  Warwikse,  lj£.  iijs.  iiijcZ. 

Willelmus  de  Albeygni,  xvj£.  xs. — xxxiij  milites. 

Fulco  filius  Garini,  xs. — j  militem. 

Cantebrige.  Huntindonesira. 

Episcopus  Elyensis,  xxl. — xl.  milites. 

Robertus  Picot,  xs. — j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Scalariis,  viij£. — xvj  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Scalariis,  vij  i.  xs. — xv  milites. 


LIBER  RUBEUSWDE  SCACCARIO. 


75 


Gilbertus  Peccatum,  i xl.  xs.  xd. 

Feoda  Comitis  Britanniae  in  hoc  comitatu,  viij£.  xl [d.] 
— xvj  milites  et  tertiam. 

Galfridus  filius  Petri,  xxvs.  vjd. 

Ricardus  de  Lovetot,  cs. — x  milites. 

Abbas  Rameseyae,  xls. — iiij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Gimeges,  xs. — -j  militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Garneri  Engaygne,  vs. — dimidium 
militem. 

Feoda  Hugonis  de  Dovra,  de  militibus  honoris  de 
Brunne,  Is.  in  hoc  comitatu — v  milites. 

Lincolnesira.1 

Episcopus  Lincolniensis,  xxxl. — lx  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Haia,  viij£. — xvj  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Roumara,  xxi xl.  xijs.  vj d. — lvij  2  milites 
et  quartam. 

Guido  de  Crohun,  xj l.  vs. — xxij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Walterus  de  Aencurt,  xvij£.  xs. — xxxv  milites. 

Hugo  Baiocensis,  viiji.  ixs. 

Willelmus  Martel,  ij.s.  vjd. — quartam  [partem]  militis. 
Baldewinus  Wac,  cjs.  iijd. 

Robertus  de  Gaunt,  xxxiiij£.  vs.  iiijd. 

Thomas  de  Arescy,  xl. — xx  milites. 

Agnes  de  Percy,  xxs.,  per  Simonem  de  Kime — ij 
milites. 

Simon  de  Cancy,  ls. — v  milites. 

Lambert  de  Scoteygni,  c.s. — x  milites. 

Philippus  filius  Roberti  filius  Hugonis,  xij£.  xs. — 
xxv  milites. 

Robertus  de  Insula,  xvs. — j  [militem]  et  dimidium. 
Honor  Comitis  Britannim,  viij£.  viijs.  vjd.  in  hoc 
comitatu. 


1  The  scutages  for  this  county 
are  entered  on  the  Pipe  Roll  of 
the  2nd  year. 


A.D. 

1190-1. 


Fo.  63. 


2  Sic  in  MS. 


76 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1190-1. 


Feodum  Widonis  de  Valle,  xixs.  i xd.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Feodum  Willelmi  Martel,  xs.  ;  de  quibus  Alexander  de 
Gueslein,  xs.,  et  Robertas  de  Wiketoft,  xs.,  per  Vice¬ 
comitem. 

Radulfus  de  Albeygni,  xiijs.,  de  quo  Robertus  de 
Basingebfery],1  per  Vicecomitem. 

Stephaniis  Camerarius,  xxvijs.  vjd,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Norfolc.  Suffolc. 

Comes  de  Clara,  1  xxl.  xvijs.  xj d. 

Willelmus  de  Warenne,  vij l.  ijs.  vj d.  de  honore  de 
Wermengy. 

Feodum  Willelmi  Blundi,  lxxs.,  per  G[alfridum]  filium 
Petri. 

Willelmus  de  Danmartin,  xs. — j  militem. 

Albericus  de  Danmartin,  xs. — j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Ivenet welle,  cs. — x  milites. 

Comes  Willelmus  de  Albeniaco,  Pincerna,  xxxviij£. — 
lxxvj  milites. 

Feoda  Huberti  de  Rya,  xviji.  xs.,  per  Robertum  de 
Tresgoz — xxxv  milites. 

Abbas  de  Hulmo,  xxixs. 

Willelmus  de  Colkirke  et  Rogerus  de  Sancto  Dion[ysio] 
vs. — dimidium  militem. 

Feodum  Walteri  Beke,  xs. — dimidium  militem.2 

Episcopus  Norwicensis,  xxl. — xl  milites. 

Abbas  Sancti  Edmundi,  xxl. — xl  milites. 

Rogerus  Bigod,  Ixijl.  xijs.  vj  d. 

Odo  de  Danmartin,  xs. — j  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Ribaldi,  vs. — dimidium  militem. 

Feoda  Gilberti  Peccatum,  xls.  in  hoc  comitatu,2  se¬ 
cundum  quod  Vicecomes  invenire  potuit — iiij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Meisnil  Garin,  ls. — v  milites. 

Willelmus  Peverel,  xxxs. — iij  milites. 


1  B  using  eh[am~]. — T.  R. 


2  Sic  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO.  77 

Willelmus  de  Tresgoz,  xvs. — j  [militem]  et  dimidium. 
Brianus  filius  Radulfi,  xvs. — j  [militem]  et  dimidium. 
Reginaldus  de  Lenham,  xxs. — ij  milites. 

Eboracsira. 

Nigellus  de  Munbray,  xliiij£.  ijs.  vjd.  iu  hoc  comitatu 
— iiijxxyiij  milites  et  quartam  [partem]. 

Willelmus  Fossard,  xvl.  xvs. — xxxj  [milites]  et  di¬ 
midium. 

Electus  Eboracensis,  xl. — xx  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Stoteville,  iiij l.  pro  se,  et  cs.  de  militibus 
Nigelli  de  Munbray  quos  habet  in  custodia. 

Willelmus  de  Percy,  xvl. — xxx  milites. 

Willelmus  Paganellus,  vijl.  xs. — xv  milites. 

Ampray  de  Cancy,  ls. — v  milites. 

Bertram  de  Bolimer,  xxxs.  viijd.,  per  Galfridum  de 
Neville  qui  est  heres[ejus]. 

Eustachius  de  Vescy,  xij7.  iijs.  iiijdL 
Stephanus  filius  Herberti,  xjs.  viijd. 

Bobertus  de  Lascy,  xxj l.  xvij.s.  vjd 
Guido  de  Laval,  xl. — xx  milites. 

Willelmus  des  Forz,  vjL  de  honore  de  Sciptone — 
xij  milites. 

Idem,  xl.  de  feodo  Albae  Mariae. 

Bobertus  de  Gant,  vj£.  vs. — xij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Banulfus  filius  Waited,  ijm.  et  dimidiam  [marcarn]. 
Bobertus  de  Bos,  lxs.  xd. 

Episcopus  Dunholmensis,  cs. — x  milites. 

Com[itissa]  Britanniae,  xxvl.  in  hoc  comitatu — 1  milites. 
Adam  de  Brus,  viji.  xs. — xv  milites. 

Bobertus  Trussebut,  cs. — x  milites. 

Bobertus  de  Brus,  ls. — v  milites. 

Feoda  Jocelini  de  Lovayn,  lvs. — v  milites  et  dimidium. 
Feodum  Willelmi  de  Fulgeriis,  xs. — j  militem. 

Feoda  Fulkonis  Paingnel,  xxs.,  sicut  Yicecomes  potuit 
invenire — ij  milites. 

Feodum  Boberti  Walensis,  vs. — dimidium  militem. 


A.D. 

1190-1. 


Fo.  63  (1 


78 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACOARIO. 


A.D. 

1190-1. 


Essexa.  Hertefordsira.1 

Ricardus  de  Muntfichet,  xxxiij£.  xijs.  vjd.  de  veteri. 

Hasculfus  de  Tany,  lxxvs. — vij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 

Feodum  Roberti  de  Helion,  c s.  De  quo  in  thesauro, 
xs.  ;  et  in  perdonis  Henrico  filio  Geroldi,  vs. ;  Henrico 
de  Illega  qui  abiit  cum  Rege  Jerusalem,2  xxxs.  ;  in 
dominico  Regis  de  Bumstode,  vs. ;  Radulfo  de  Berners 
et  Saiero  de  Stoble,  vs. ;  et  Yicecomiti,  vjs.  vd.  de  parte 
ejusdem  honoris  qui  est  in  manu  Regis. 

Walterus  filius  Roberti,  xxxjl.  xvs. — lxiij  [milites]  et 
dimidium. 

Comes  Albericus,  xvl.  xvd. 

Henricus  filius  Geroldi  Camerarii,  xxvj l.  i xs.  vd. 

Ricardus  de  Reymes,  c  s.,  sed  calumpniatur  quod 
Willelmus  filius  Roberti  de  Stuteville  habet  in  dominico 
dimidium  militem  in  Dedham';  et  Picot  de  Tany,  ij  milites; 
Rogerus  Bigod,  dimidium ;  Rogerus  do  Reimes,  dimidium. 

Comes  Essexse,  xlix£.  iijs.  iiijcZ. 

Philippus  de  Yaloniis,  xx.s. — ij  milites. 

Godefridus  de  Lucy,  lxvs. — vj  [milites]  et  dimidium. 

Durandus  de  Osteilli,  xvl.  iijs.  iiijcZ. 

Abbas  Sancti  Albani,  lxs. — vj  milites. 

Willelmus  Malet  de  Gerardville,  xs. — j  militem. 

Osbertus  de  Mara,  xs. — j  militem. 

Honor  Piperelli  de  Londonia,  lj  milites  et  vja  pars,  per 
Yicecomitem,  in  diversis  comitatibus ;  de  quibus  in 
perdonis  Thomae  Bardulfo,  xs. ;  Eudoni  filio  Ernisii,  xxs.  ; 
Roberto  de  Mortuo  Mari,  xs. ;  Willelmo  Peverello,  ls. ; 
Alano  de  Valoniis,  xxs. ;  Radulfo  de  Beseville,  xxs. ; 
Monachis  Straffordim,  vs.,  per  libertatem  cartae  ;  Canonicis 
de  Meltone,  iijd.,  per  libertatem  cartao  Regis ;  Canonicis 
de  Moritonia,  vs.,  in  Devonia,  per  breve  Regis. 


1  The  returns  of  the  scutages  for 
these  counties  are  entered  with  most 
elaborate  details  in  the  Pipe  Rolls 

of  the  2nd  and  3rd  years. 


2  Several  other  crusaders  men¬ 
tioned  in  the  Rolls  are  omitted 
here. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACGARIO. 


79 


Hugo  filius  Stephani,  xs.,  per  Yicecomitem — j  militem. 
Ailwardus  Camerarius,  vs.,  per  Vicecomitem — dimi¬ 
dium  militem. 

Londres.  Middelsexa. 

Episcopus  Londoniensis,  xjB.  xvijs.  i xcl.  de  hiis  quos 
recognoscit. 


ANNO  YI°  REGIS  RICARDI,  AD  REDEMPTIONEM 
EJUS,  SCUTAGIUM  AD  XXs. 

Anno  vi°  Regis  Ricardi  fuit  scutagium  universale 

ASSISUM  AD  XXS.,  NULLO  EXEMPTO. 

Kent. 

Honor  Roberti  de  Dovra,  xiiij  £. — xiiij  milites. 

Honor  Walteri  de  Meduana,  xxixl. — xxix  milites. 
Simon  de  Abrincis,  xxji.  xs. — xxj  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Abbas  Sancti  Augustini,  xiij l.  vs.  in  hoc  comitatu — 
xiij  [milites]  et  iiijam  [partem]. 

Warinus  filius  Geroldi,  xls.  in  hoc  comitatu — ij  milites. 
Hugo  Bardulf,  xxs.  de  j  feodo  in  Hou — j  militem. 

Isti  habent  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Alexander  Arsic,  Ranulfus  de  Auberville,  Robertus 
de  Crevequor,  Comes  de  Clare,  Hugo  de  Neville,  Robertus 
de  [Turnham],1  Henricus  de  Yer,  Jolland  de  Neville, 
Thomas  filius  Bernardi,  Anselinus  Biset,  Willelmus  de 
Monte  Kanisil. 


a.d. 

1190-1. 


A.D. 


**=**■/ 

Fo.  64.  '  r 


fi-f'  +''t' 


Dorsete.  Sumersete. 

Hern  icus  de  Tilly,  xiiiji.  xs. — xiiij  [milites]  et  dimidium 
et  iiijam  [partem]. 

Abbas  Glastonise,  xB. — xl  milites. 


1  Blank  in  MS. ;  supplied  from  T.  R. 


80 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Nicholaus  de  Meriet,  xxxviijs.  ixd  de  feodo  j  militis. 
Willelmus  filius  Willelmi,  lxs. — iij  milites.' 

Johannes  de  Erleiga,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Johannes  de  Monte  Acuto,  ix£.  vijs.  vj<A 
Radulfus  filius  Willelmi,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 
Ricardus  dii  Estre,  liiijs.  ijcZ.  de  iiijor  militibus. 
Willelmus  de  Monte  Acuto,  vj l.  xxd  de  feodo  Montis 
Acuti. 

Yicecomes,  xxs.  de  Henrico  de  Cultura. — -j  [militem].1 
Idem,  xxs.  de  Fulcone  de  Aulnou — -j  militem. 

Idem,  xxs.  de  Philippo  filio  Roberti — -j  militem. 

Idem,  xxs.  de  Willelmo  de  Monde  ville — j  militem. 
Idem,  xxs.  de  scutagio  Abbatis  de  Abbodesbiria — 
j  militem. 

Idem,  xls.  de  Abbate  de  Cerne — ij  milites. 

Idem,  xxs.  pro  Roberto  Belet — j  militem. 

Idem,  xijs.  vj<A  de  Willelmo  Polein. 

Idem,  vjs.  ijcZ.  de  Willelmo  filio  Johannis  de  Harpetre. 
Idem,  xliiijs.  de  Abbatia  de  Sirburnia. 

Idem,  vijh  de  Abbatia  Sancti  Edwardi — vij  milites. 
Idem,  vijh  vs.  de  Ricardo  filio  Guillelmi,  de  feodo 
Montis  Acuti. 

Episcopus  Bathoniensis,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Abbatia  Muchelney,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Honor  de  Poerstoke,  xxxh— xxx  milites. 

Norfolc.  Suffolc. 

Willelmus  de  Warenne,  xiij£.  vs. — xiij  milites  et 
quartam  [partem]. 

Feoda  Willelmi  Blundi,  vij l. — vij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Danmartin,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Kenetwelle,  x£. — x  milites. 

Abbas  de  Hulmo,  lxxviijs. 

Willelmus  de  Colcherke,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 
Walterus  de  Bek,  xxs. — j  militem. 


1  Maream  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCA00ARI0. 


81 


Episcopus  Norwicensis,  xll. — xl  milites. 

Abbas  Sancti  Edmundi  xll. — xl  milites. 

Comes  Rogerus,  cxxvl. — cxxv  milites  et  vtam  [partem]. 
Odo  de  Danmartin,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Roberti  Ribaud,  xs.  —  dimidium 
militem. 

Gunnore  de  Yaloniis,  xxs.  in  hiis  comitatibus — 
j  militem. 

De  hiis  qui  non  habent  capitales  honores. 

Garinus  filius  Geroldi,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 
Johannes  de  Rocheford,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Simon  de  Abrincis,  iiij£.  xvs. — iiij  milites  et  dimi¬ 
dium  et  vam  [partem]. 

Walterus  le  Yer,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Willelmus  Essicheveille,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Honor  de  Eye,  iiijxxx£.  xs.,  per  Robertum  de  Insula. 
In  perdono  Ranulfo  de  Auberville,  xxxs. 

Willelmus  filius  Oliveri,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Isti  habuerunt  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Comes  de  Clare.1 
Robertus  filius  Rogeri. 

Comes  de  Arundel. 

Episcopus  Elyensis. 

Norhamtescira. 

Abbas  de  Burgo,  1  xl. — lx  milites. 

Hugo  de  Lisures,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Draytone,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 
Robertus  de  Curtenay,  lxs. — iij  milites. 

Ricardus  Basset,  xvl. — xv  milites. 

Ricardus  Foliot,  xiiji.  xvs. — xiij  milites  et  dimidium 
et  vam  [partem]. 

Honor  Roberti  de  Chokes,  xvl. — xv  milites. 

1  No  figures  are  given  in  MS.  or  T.  R. 

63377.  F 


A.D. 

1194-5. 


82 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1194-5. 


Fo.  64  d. 


In  perdonis  Roberto  de  Quency,  xls.  de  scutagio  suo 
de  Bukkeby ;  et  Willelmo  de  Maulion,  xl.s.  de  scutagio 
suo  de  Wallavestone. 

Johannes  de  Bydon,  xxvs.  de  scutagio  in  hoc  comitatu 
— -j  militem  et  quartam  [partem]. 

Yicecomes  [reddit  compotum]  de  xxs.  de  Eustachio  de 
Watford ;  et  de  viij£.  ix.s.  iiijd.  de  honore  Peverelli  de 
Notingham ;  et  de  xx-s.  de  Willelmo  de  Homes;  et  de 
xxxj.s.  ij  d.  de  scutagio  honoris  de  feod[is]  de  Moretonia; 
et  de  xs.  de  Roberto  Marmion;  et  de  viijs.  de  Priore 
Coventrise ;  et  de  xxx.s.  de  scutagio  Comitis  Albrici ; 
et  de  xxs.  de  Burnardo  Baillol ;  et  de  xs.  de  Matildi 
Giffarde ;  et  de  xxs.  de  Waltero  de  Com  ville ;  et  de 
xxvs.  de  Hugone  de  Baion ;  et  de  xxxs.  de  Roberto 
de  Tresgoz ;  et  de  xx«.  de  Roberto  de  Munbray ;  et  de 
vjs.  ijd.  de  honore  de  Berkamstede  ;  et  de  xxs.  de  honore 
Gloucestriae  ;  et  de  xxs.  de  Comite  de  Arundello. 

Cantebrige  et  Huntindonesira. 

Gilbertus  Peche,  xi xl.  xxd. 

Idem,  Gilbertus,  ijm.  et  dimidiam  de  honore  de 
Brunne. 

Robertus  Picot,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Scalariis,  xvl. — xv  milites. 

Abbas  de  Ramese,  iiij£. — iiij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Scalariis,  xvl.  et  dimidiam  marcam — xv 
milites  et  tertiam  1  [partem]. 

Ricardus  filius  Walteri  Engayne,  dimidiam  marcam — 
j  tertiam.1 

Rogerus  de  Laveto,  xl. — x  milites. 

Honor  Willelmi  de  Say,  ljs. 

Robertus  de  Gimes,  xxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — j  militem. 

Albreda  Trussebut,  ijm.  et  dimidiam. 

Leonia  de  Stoteville,  ijm.  et  dimidiam  de  parte  sua  de 
honore  de  Brunne. 


1  Tertia  in  MS, 


LTBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARTO. 


83 


Notingham.  Dereby. 

Rogerus  de  Buron,  xl. — x  milites. 

Robertus  de  Cauz,  xijZ.  xs. — xij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Radulfus  Musard,  xijZ. — xij  milites. 

Radulfus  Hanselin,  xxvl.,  de  quibus  super  dominium, 
vij  l.  xs. 

Hubert  filius  Radulfi,  xxl. — xx  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Cliaorcis,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Comes  de  Ferrariis,  lxviijZ.  xs. — lxviij  et  dimidium. 

Honor  Pipperelli,  lxZ.  xs. — lx  et  dimidium. 

Rogerus  de  Munbray,  ls.  in  liiis  comitatibus — ij 
milites  et  dimidium. 

Honor  de  Gant,  c s.  in  hiis  comitatibus — v  milites. 

Honor  Richemundiae,  xxxijs.  in  hiis  comitatibus. 

Arcbiepiscopus  Eboracensis,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Honor  de  Tikeville,1  xlZ.  xvs.,  de  quibus  viijZ.  sunt 
super  Constabulariam  Cestriae  in  hoc  honore ;  et  c  s. 
super  Rogerum  de  Lovetot ;  et  cvs.  super  Willelmum  do 
Lovetot. 

OXONEFORD. 

Alexander  Arsic,  xxl. — xx  milites. 

Gerardus  de  Kamville,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Linguiure,  xx.s. — j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Oyli,  xxijZ.  vjs.  viijcZ. — xxij  milites  et 
iijam  partem. 

Radulfus  filius  Wigani,  vs. — quartam  partem  [militis]. 

Phelippus  de  Hamtona,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Feodum  Wakelini  Harenge,  xxs.— j  militem. 

De  hiis  qui  non  habent  capitales  honores. 

Vicecomes  [reddit  compotum]  de  xs.  de  Ricardo  de 
Oyli  ;  de  xxs.  de  Ricardo  filio  Nigelli ;  de  dimidia  marca 
de  Roberto  de  Haroucurt ;  de  ijs.  viijd  de  Osberto  de 
Hedendone  ;  et  de  xs.  de  Willelmo  de  Hames  ;  et  de 


F  2 


A.D. 

1194-5. 


1  Sic  in  MS.' 


84 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1194-5. 


Fo.  65. 


xiijs.  de  Henrico  de  Lascy ;  et  de  xs.  de  Guidone  de 
Lanval ;  et  de  xxs.  viij d.  de  Hervi  Bagod  ;  et  de  xs.  de 
Rogero  de  Cestria;  et  de  xs.  de  Sewallo  filio  Fulcheri; 
et  de  xxs.  de  Rogero  de  Lingniure ;  et  de  xxs.  de 
Waltero  de  Yerdone;  et  de  xxs.  de  Chiselhamtone, 
Gervasii  Paganelli ;  et  de  xs.  de  Berford  Olaf ;  et  de 
xxxvjs.  viij d.  de  feodo  Radulli  Musard;  et  de  xviijs. 
ijc?.  de  Waltero  de  Alerintone ;  et  de  xs.  de  Rolandiut; 
et  de  vs.  de  Lillingestane ;  et  de  dimidia  marca  de  feodo 
Wakelini  Hareng. 

Lincolnesira. 

Episcopus  Lincolniensis,  1  xl. — lx  milites. 

Gerardus  de  Ca[m]p ville,  xvj?.  de  feodo  Ricardi  de 
Haia — xvj  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Romare,  lix?,  xvs. 

Hugo  de  Baioc,  xvj?.  xviijs. 

Baldewinus  Wac,  xl.  ijs.  vjr?. 

Simon  de  Campez,  cs. — v  milites. 

Lambert  de  Scoteingny,  xl. — x  milites. 

Walterus  de  Neville,  xij?. — xij  milites. 

Comitissa  Britanniae.1 

Episcopus  Dunholmensis,  xl. — x  milites. 

Archiepiscopus  Eboracensis,  ciiijs.  viij  d.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Robertus  filius  Harding,  xxxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — 
j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Ricardus  de  Pomo,  xxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — j  militem. 

Robertus  Camerarius,  xxijs. 

Guido  de  Laval,  xxxiijs.  iiijc?.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Ricardus  de  Maringes,  vs. — quartam  partem. 

Johannes  Malherbe,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Adam  Paganellus,  xxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — j  militem. 

Isti  habuerunt  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Willelmus  de  Longo  Campo,  Oliver  de  Aencurt, 
Willelmus  de  Estuteville,  Thomas  de  Arescy,  Phelippus 


1  Sic  in  MS.  ;  reddit  compotum  in  Ewerwicsira. — T.  R. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCAUCARIO. 


85 


filius  Roberti,  Comes  Cestriae,  Alexander  Arsic, 
Eustachius  de  Vescy,  Comes  de  Ferrariis,  Agnes  de 
Percy,  Hamo  filius  Hamonis,  Robertus  de  Baulers, 
Rogerus  de  Mortumer,  Willelmus  de  Albeygni,  Comes  de 
Clare,  Robertus  Marmiun,  Petrus  de  Pratellis,  Robertus 
de  Gresle,  Jacobus  de  Hulmo,  Willelmus  de  Fortibus, 
Hugo  de  Verly. 


CUMBERLANDE. 

Ranulfus  de  Vallibus,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Brus,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Lancastria. 

Honor  Lancastrian,  lxxijL  vj-s.  viijcZ. 

Robertus  de  Gresle,  xijh — xij  milites. 

Henricus  Falconarius,  xx.s. — -j  militem. 

Ranulfus  de  Albeville,  xx.s. — -j  militem. 

Wigornsira. 

Episcopus  Wigorniensis,  xli xl.  vj.s.,  de  quibus  in  terris 
quas  Rex  tenet,  lxs. 

Abbas  de  Evesham,  iiij l.  xs. — iiij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Abbas  de  Persora,  xl.s. — ij  milites. 

Abbas  Westmon  asterii,  x\l. — xv  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Sumery,  iiijZ.  vjs.  viijcZ. — iiij  [milites]  et 
tertiam. 

De  Willelmo  de  Bello  Campo,  vij l.  de  foto  scutagio 
quod  promisit  domino  Regi. 

N  ORHUMB  ERL  ANDE. 

Rogerus  de  Merlay,  xxm.,  ut  remaneat  ab  exercitu 
Normannorum. 

Robertus  de  Muscans,  xxl.  pro  eodem. 

Radulfus  de  Caugy,  lxm.  pro  fine  relevii  sui. 


A.D. 

11^4-5. 


a.d. 

1194-5. 


Fo.  65  d. 


8G  LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

Et  notandum  quod  scutagium  de  Norhumberlande 
ideo  redditur  in  una  summa,  quia  totum,  fuit  in  manu 
Episcopi  Dunholmensis,  a  quo  receptum  fuit  scutagium, 
et  ideo  non  distinguitur  per  Barones. 

Yicecomes,  de  lxxvijh  jm.  de  scutagio  militum  Nor- 
humbrelandae. 


Herford  in  W allia. 

Episcopus  Herfordiensis,  xvl. — xv  milites. 

Walterus  de  Cormeilles,  i xl. — ix  milites. 

Johannes  de  Munemue,  xvl. — xv  milites. 

Robertus  de  Ewias,  xixh — xix  milites. 

Robertus  de  Chamdos,  xiijh  xl  d. 

Hugo  de  Say,  xxiij£. — xxiij  milites. 

Johannes  de  Kilpaek,  xxxs.— j  [militem]  et  dimidium. 

Walterus  de  Lascy,  lj l.  vs. — li  [milites]  et  quartam 
[partem]. 

Reginaldus  de  Baalun,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Feodum  A  die  de  Port,  xxij  l.  xiijs. 

Michael  et  Robertus  de  Manewe,  iiijs.  de  scutagio,  per 
Vicecomitem. 

Mathseus  de  Gamages,  xls.  de  eodem,  per  Yice- 
comitem. 

Johannes  de  Mahurdin,  vs.  iijd.  in  hoc  comitatu,  per 
Yicecomitem. 


Salopsira. 

Willelmus  filius  Alani,  xxvijh  xs. 

Feoda  Herberti  de  Chasteilluu,  cs.,  per  Radulphum  de 
Erderne. 

Guido  Extraneus,  xxxs. — j  [militem]  et  dimidium. 
Johannes  Extraneus,  xxxs. — -j  [militem]  et  dimidium. 
Hugo  de  Picheford,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Witefeld,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Hunstanville,  xxs.  in  hoc  comitatu— 
j  militem. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


87 


Robertus  Corbet,  iiij7.  in  hoc  comitatu,  et  xxs.  de 
scutagio — -j  militis. 

Hugo  Pantulfus,  lxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — ij  milites.1 

h  eodum  quod  fuit  Gerardi  de  Tornay,  lx.s.  et  vjcZ. 

Eboracsira. 

Archiepi scopus  Eboracensis,  xxl. — xx  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Munbray,  iiijxxviij£.  vs. — iiijxxviij  milites 
et  iiijam. 

Comitissa  de  Warewyke,  xvl.  de  parte  sua  de  feodo 
Willelmi  de  Percy. 

Willelmus  Paganellus,  xvl. — xv  milites. 

Amprey  de  Caucy,  cs.,  per  Hugonem  Murdac — v  mi¬ 
lites. 

Hubertus  filius  Stephani,  Carnei  [arii],  xxiijs.  iiijd. 

Guido  de  Laval,  xxl. — xx  milites. 

Rogerus  [constabularius]  de  Cestria  successor  Hernici 
de  Lascy,  xliij£.  xvs. — xliij  milites  et  tres  partes. 

Isti  habent  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Willelmus  Eossard,  de  xxxj l.  xs. — xxxj  [milites]  et 
dimidium. 

W  illelmus  de  Stoteville,  de  viijh — viij  milites. 

Agnes  de  Percy,  de  xvl. — xv  milites. 

Eustachius  de  Yescy,  de  xxiiij£.  dimidiam  marcam. 

Comes  Albae  Mariae,  de  xiijh  de  feodo  Alexandri  filii 
Geroldi. 

Robertus  de  Gant,  de  xij£.  xs. — xij  milites  et  dimi¬ 
dium. 

Willelmus  filius  Ranulfi,  de  vm. 

Duae  partes  feodi  de  Wartre  quas  Hamo  filius  Hamonis 
et  Robertus  de  Boullers  habent,  viijs.  xjd. 

Comes  Albae  Mariae,  xxl.  in  Heudernesse  et  xvl.  de 
feodo  Adae  de  Brus. 


AJ). 

1194-5. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


88 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1194-5. 


Robertas  de  Briis,  cs.  de  feodo  ejusdem  Adae,  et  xm. 
de  feodis  Hamonis  filii  Hamonis  et  Roberti  de  Bullers 
et  Roberti  de  Trussebut. 

Feodum  Jocelini  de  Lovein,  cx.s. 

Summa — c  et  lxxijh  xvs.  vijd 

Episcopus  Dunholmerisis,  xl. 

Andraeas  de  Feugeres,  xxs. 

Robertas  de  Rus,  vj l.  xviijs. 

Coustancia  Comitissa  Britanniae,  cxl l.  de  feodis  cxl 
militum  quos  Thomas  de  Burgo,  Senescallus  ejusdem 
Comitissae,  coram  baronibus  recognovit  pertinere  ad 
honorem  Comitis  Britanniae  in  Anglia. 


Devonia. 

Episcopus  Exoniensis,  xvl.  xs. — xv  milites  et  dimidium. 

Hernicus  de  Ferrariis,  iiijxxxijh  xvs.  viijcZ. 

Abbas  de  Tavistokia,  xvj£. — xvj  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Tracy,  xxvl.  xs.,  per  Hugonem  de 
Cort[enai]. 

Honor  de  Bentone,  vij l.  viij.s.,  per  W[illelmum]  Briggere. 

Ricardus  Peverel,  xvs.,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Galfridus  del  Estre,  xxs.,  per  eundem — j  militem. 

Petrus  Burdone,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Henricus  de  la  Pomeray,  xxj£.  xviijs.  iiijc?. 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato,  xs.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Comes  Willelmus  de  Riveres,  xvl.  de  scutagio  militum 
suorum  quos  recognoscit ;  et  xl vl.  de  dono  suo  de  mili¬ 
tibus  suis  quos  ncn  recognoscit,  quos  dat  hac  vice  Regi 
in  transfretatione  sua. 

Henricus  de  Tylly,  xiiijZu  xvs.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Willelmus  de  Monte  Acuto,  iiijs.  vjc?.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Isti  habuerunt  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Olyver  de  Tracy,  Johannes  de  Toi  intone,  Henricus  de 
Novant,  Willelmus  filius  Martini,  Rogerus  de  Valle  Torta. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


89 


CORNUBIA. 

Vicecomes,  cxxxiiijZ.  xjs.  viijcZ.  de  ccxv  militibus  et 
tertia  parte  de  honore  Comitis  Reginaldi  in  Cornubia  et 
Devonia  qui  reddunt  scutagium  ad  feoda  Moretonise. 
In  perdonis  per  breve  Regis  Reginaldo  de  Yalle  torta, 
xxxvj£.  xvijs.  vj  d.  de  lix  militibus  praedicti  feodi ;  et 
Roberto  de  Cardinan,  xliiij£.  xvij.s.  vj  d.  de  lxxj  militibus 
de  eodem  feodo  ;  et  Roberto  lilio  Baldewini,  xij.s.  vjd. 
de  eodem  feodo  scilicet  [de]  uno  [milite]. 

Londonia.  Middelsexa. 

Episcopus  Londoniensis,  xxl. — xx  milites. 

W ILTESCIRA. 

Episcopus  Sarrisbiriensis,  xxij^.1 — xxxij  milites. 

Henricus  de  Bolun,  xxx/.  xs. — xxx  milites  et  dimidium. 

Abbatissa  Wiltoniae,  cs.— v  milites. 

Walterus  Waleram,  xxvl. — xxv  milites. 

Walterus  de  Grimstede,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Garnerus  de  Insures,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Robertus  Giffard,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Hunfridus  de  Sancto  Vigore,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Elias  Giffard,  i xl. — ix  milites. 

Robertus  de  Mara  et  Willelmus  de  Rokella,  xls. — 
ij  milites. 

Henricus  Hese,  xxs. — j  militem. 

De  hiis  qui  non  habent  capitales  honores  in  hoc 

COMITATU. 

Vicecomes,  lxs.  de  scutagio  Abbatiae  de  Malmesbery 
— iij  milites. 

Galfridus  filius  Petri,  xxs.  in  Ciriel — j  militem. 

Idem  Vicecomes,  xxs.  de  Ely  a  Croc — j  militem. 


A.D. 

1194-5. 


Fo.  66. 


1  Sic  in  MS.;  xxxij  1, — T.  R. 


90 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1194-5. 


Idem,  xxs.  de  Thoma  de  Horslega — j  militem. 

Idem,  xxs.  de  Simone  Wak — -j  militem. 

Idem,  xxs.  de  feodo  Willelmi  Blundi  de  Norwich,  in 
Lavintone — j  militem. 

Comes  Sarrisbirise  habet  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Bukingham.  Bedeford. 

Simon  de  Bello  Campo,  xlvl.  xvs.  viijcZ. 

Hugo  de  Cahaignes,  j m.  in  hiis  comitatibus — duas 
partes  [militis]. 

Walterus  de  Wahille,  xxvijk — xxvij  milites. 

Petrus  Sorme,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  iiijs. 

Hugo  filius  Alani,  ijs.  vjd 

Willelmus  de  Schirintone,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Herbertus  de  Bolebec,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Ri cardus  filius  Nigelli,  xxxs.— j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Henricus  de  Pinkeingny,  xiij£.  xs. — xiij  [milites] 
et  dimidium. 

Johannes  de  Bidon,  vj£.  xs. — vj  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
De  hiis  qui  non  habent  capitales  honores  in  hiis 

COMITATIBUS. 

Yicecomes,  i xl.  xijcZ.  de  honore  Gervasii  Paganelli. 
Idem,  xjs.  de  scutagio  Advocati  de  Betone. 

Idem,  xs.  de  Henrico  de  Novo  Mercato — dimidium 
militem. 

Idem,  xvs.  de  Hamone  de  Gironde — ij  milites. 

Idem,  xxiijs.  de  Johanne  de  Boylli. 

Idem,  iiij£.  xvjs.  de  honore  Piperelli. 

Isti  habent  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Comes  de  Clare,  Willelmus  Marscallus,  Abricus  de  Ver, 
Willelmus  Mauduit  Camerarius,  Walterus  de  Winde- 
sores,  Willelmus  de  Windesores,  Hamo  filius  Hamonis, 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


91 


Willelmus  de  Albeny,  Robertus  de  Albeny,  Comes  David, 
Comes  Albemarlse,  Comes  Cestrise,  Com[itissa]  War- 
wikse,  Hugo  Wak,  Gilbertus  Basset,  Galfridus  de  Say, 
Ranulfus  de  Auberville,  Willelmus  de  Belmes,  Balde- 
winus  de  Betum,  Robertus  de  Quency,  Petrus  de  Prewes, 
Walterus  de  Traylli,  Thomas  filius  Bernardi,  Oliver  de 
Aencurt,  Willelmus  de  Breose,  Willelmus  filius  Radulfi 
de  Kahaignes. 

SUDHAMTESCIRA. 

Episcopus  Wintoniensis,  \xl. — lx  milites. 

Robertus  de  Ponte  Arche,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Abbas  de  Hida,  xxl. — xx  milites. 

Adam  de  Port,  lvL — lv  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Aldelini,  xxvs. 

Vicecomes,  iiij7.  iiijcZ.  de  scutagio  Willelmi  de  Roumare 
in  hoc  comitatu. 

Rogerus  Torel,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Walterville,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Thomas  de  Sancto  Yalerico,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Ewias,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Maysi,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Solers,  xx.s. — j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Alberuns,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Michael  de  Lovers,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  xxvs. — j  militem  et  tertiam. 

Willelmus  de  Chaugrave,  xld. — vjam  partem  [militis]. 

Alanus  de  Chiltelega,  ijs. 

Willelmus  de  Homez,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Cambray,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Soneworde,  xvs. — iij  partes  [militis]. 

Rogerus  Pantolf,  iiijs. 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato,  xxs. — j  militem. 

SUDSEXA. 

Episcopus  Cicestrensis,  iiijZ. — iiij  milites. 

Gilbertus  de  Aquila,  xxj l.  xvijs.  vj d.  de  parvis  feodis, 
scilicet,  de  quolibet  milite,  xij.s.  vj  d. 


A.D. 

1194-5. 


92 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 
1194-5. 
Fo.  66  d. 


Vicecomes,  c s.  et  j m.  de  Capellaria  de  Boseham. 
Willelmus  filius  Ricardi  de  Kahaingnes,  xxxvij.s.  vj<i. 
in  hoc  comitatu. 

Norman  de  Normanville,  iiijs.  ij cZ.  in  hoc  comitatu. 
Rogerus  de  Tony,  xl.s. 

Hawis  de  la  Guirche,  xls.  de  feodo  de  Wepeham. 
Henricus  de  Percy,  xxij£.  xs. 

Robertus  Peverel,  viijs.  iiijcZ.  de  duabus  partibus 
j  feodi  Morettonise. 

Willelmus  de  Belmes,  vj l. — vj  milites. 


Gloucestresira. 

Margareta  de  Bohun,  xvij£.— xvij  milites. 

Robertus  filius  Maur[icii],  c  s. — v  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Berkelay,  vij£.  xs. — vij  [milites]  et  dimi¬ 
dium. 

Ricardus  de  Escropes,  lxs. — iij  milites. 

Patriciis  1  de  Chaorciis,  xij£. — xij  milites. 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato,  xvijl.  xjs.  iiij cZ. 

Honor  Gloucestrise,  cclxj£.  xs. — cclxj  [milites]  et  di¬ 
midium. 

Otuel  de  Sudlega,  lxs. — iij  milites. 

Abbas  Winchelcumbise,2  xls. — ij  milites. 

De  hiis  qui  non  habent  capitales  honores  in  hoc 

COMITATU. 

Radulfus  filius  Stephani,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Chamdos,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Comhulle,  xviijs  in  hoc  comitatu. 
Walterus  de  Esselega,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Berkescira. 

Willelmus  Achard,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Abbas  Abbendonife,  xxxl. — xxx  milites. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


|  2  Sic  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


93 


Holnad  de  Sifrewast,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Toroldus  de  Pesemere,  xs.,  qui  ideo  redduntur  quia 
[Ricardus] 1  de  Pesemere  dominus  suus  noluit  recipere 
homagium  suum. 

De  hiis  qui  non  habent  capitales  honores  in  hoc 

COMITATU. 

Vicecomes,  xx.s.  de  Hugone  de  Sotebroc. 

Idem,  iijs.  pro  Johanne  Belet. 

Idem,  xx.s.  de  scutagio  Ricardi  de  Siffrewast  — 
j  militem. 

Idem,  xs.  pro  Johanne  Visus  Lupi — dimidium  militem. 

Idem,  xx.s.  de  Henrico  de  Novo  Mercato — j  militem. 

Idem,  vij£.  xiijs.  de  Radulfo  de  Sumeri. 

Idem,  xx.s.  pro  Johanne  Maltravers — -j  militem. 

Idem,  xvl.  de  scutagio  Willelmi  de  Vernon — xv 
milites. 

Idem,  xx.s.  de  scutagio  W alteri  de  Clifforde — j  militem. 

Idem,  xx.s.  de  scutagio  Adas  de  Port  de  Wallia — 
j  militem. 

Idem,  xxs.  de  scutagio  Abbatis  de  Hida— j  militem. 

Idem,  xls.  de  scutagio  Radulfi  Musard — ij  milites. 

Idem,  vs.  de  scutagio  Henrici  de  Oyli — quartam  partem 
[militis]. 

Idem,  vs.  de  scutagio  Gerardi  de  Camp  ville — quartam 
partem  [militis]. 

Idem,  xxvs.  de  scutagio  Thomae  de  Sancto  Valerico 
— j  militem  et  quartam  [partem]. 

Idem,  xxs.  de  scutagio  Walteri  de  Sand  ville,  de  honore 
de  Skiptone — -j  militem. 

Idem,  xs.  de  Banholomaso  de  Andeville,  de  honore  de 
Brune — dimidium  militem. 

Idem,  xs.  de  Radulfo  de  Belesmes — dimidium  militem. 

Idem,  xxs.  de  Henrico  de  Grinenters — j  militem. 

Idem,  xxs.  de  Johanne  de  Erlega — j  militem. 


A.D. 

1194-5. 


1  Sic [ut]  in  MS.;  Ricardus. — T.  R. 


94  LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1194-5. 


Idem,  xs.  de  Thoma  de  Erlega,  de  honore  Willelmi 
Longespee — dimidium  militem. 

Idem,  dimidiam  marcam  de  Hervi  de  Denkesworde- — 
tertiam  partem  [militis]. 

Petrus  filius  Herberti,  xvs.  in  hoc  comitatu — iij 
partes  [militis]. 

Henricus  de  Bolum,  xs,— dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Scropes,  xls. —  ij  milites. 


Isti  habent  quietantiam  '  per  brevia. 

Willelmus  de  Boclande,  Willelmus  de  Roumara, 
Willelmus  de  Windesores,  Ricardus  de  Oyli,  Comes 
de  Ferrariis,  Hugo  de  Say,  Johannes  de  Hastinges, 
Rogerus  de  Mortuo  Mari,  Comes  Cestrise,  Henricus  de 
Pinkeigny. 

Essexa.  Hertford. 

Willelmus  de  Reymes,  viijk — viij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Helion,  xl. — x  milites. 

Comes  Albericus,  xxxl.  ijs.  vj d. 

Garinus  filius  Geroldi,  liij£.  xviijs.  vijd.  de  feodo 
Eudonis  Dapiferi. 

Ricardus  de  Reimes,  xl. — x  milites. 

Galfridus  filius  Petri,  iiijxxxviij?.  vjs.  viijci 
Gunnore  de  Yaloniis,  xxxl.  vjs.  viijcZ. 

Gilbertus  de  Tany,  vij  l.  xs. — vij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Willelmus  filius  Roberti,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 
Henricus  de  Valoniis,  xl-s., .  per  Vicecomitem — ij 
milites. 

Fo.  67.  Abbas  Sancti  Albani,  vjs.,  per  eundem. 

Osbertus  de  Mara,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

De  hiis  qui  non  habent  capitales  honores  in  hiis 

COMITATIBUS. 

Idem  Vicecomes,  Is.  de  Roberto  de  Hastinges  in  hiis 
comitatibus — ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Idem,  xx.s.  de  Willelmo  de  Claville — j  militem. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


95 


Idem,  xxx.9.  de  Willelmo  de  Sancto  Claro — -j  [militem] 
et  dimidium. 

Idem,  vs.  de  Simone  Peche  —  quartam  partem 
[militis]. 

Idem,  Is.  de  Rogero  Tallebot — ij  [milites]  et  dimi¬ 
dium. 

Idem,  vijs.  vj d.  de  Willelmo  filio  Ranulfi. 

Idem,  xls.  de  Eustachio  de  Baillol — ij  milites. 

Idem,  xxs.  de  Radulfo  de  Cornhulle — j  militem. 

Idem,  xxs.  de  Roberto  Monacho — j  militem. 

Idem,  xs.  de  Ernulfo  de  Mondeville  —  dimidium 
militem. 


A.D. 

1194-5. 


Isti  habent  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Ricardus  de  Montfichet,  Walterus  filius  Roberti, 
Willelmus  Malet,  Comes  de  Ferrariis,  Comes  Warennise,1 
Comes  Leycestriee,  Willelmus  Marscallus,  Comes  de 
Clara,  Galfridus  de  Say,  Henricus  de  Yer,  Derekin  de 
Aera,  Willelmus  de  Albeygni,  Johannes  filius  Bernardi, 
Willelmus  de  Monte  Kanysii,  Comes  Sarrisbirise,  Comes 
Albemarlse,  Adam  de  Port,  Hugo  de  Neville,  Johannes 
de  Gernun ville,  Th[omas]  de  Kaumpville,  Eustachius 
de  Grein ville,  Werry  de  Marinis. 


Ex  Rotulo  Escaetarum  per  Willelmum  de  Sanctae 
Maria:  Ecclesia,  custodem  escaetarum  Anglia:. 

Honor  de  Walingeford,  c l.  vs. ;  de  quibus,  in  perdonis 
Willelmo  Paganello,  iiij£.  ;  Gilberto  Basset,  viij£. ;  Alano 
Basset,  iiij l. ;  Thomse  Basset,  iiij£. 

Escaeta:  de  Wiltescira. 

Honor  Walteri  de  Dunstanville,  xxj£.  iiijs.,  per  eundem, 
in  hoc  comitatu. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


96 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

L 194-5. 


Escaieile  Cornuble. 


Honor  Ricardi  de  Lncy  in  Cornubia,  xij£.  xs.  de  uno¬ 
quoque  milite,  xijs.  vjrZ.,  scilicet,  de  j  feodo  Ricardo 
de  Bereges,  et  de  j  feodo  et  dimidio  de  Henrico 
de  Trekaz,  et  de  dimidio  [feodo]  in  Ebbeford,  et  de  j  et 
tertia  in  Tregenho  et  Bentone,  et  de  j  in  Thihedy 
et  de  dimidio  de  Hugone  de  Hengebury. 


Escaetue  Sudsexal 
Honor  de  Arundel,  iiijxxiiij7.  xs. 


A.D. 

4 19«  "7^ 

Fo.  67  d. 


ANNUS  YIIIUS  REGIS  RICARDI  SCUTAGIUM 
normannih:  ad  xxs. 


Kent. 


Honor  Roberti  de  Dovra,  xiiij l. — xiiij  milites. 

Honor  Walteri  de  Meduana,  xxixl.,  per  Ciciliam 
Comitissam  Her  ford  i  a?,  et  Willelmum  de  Monte  Kanisio, 
xxix  milites. 

Simon  de  Abrincis,  xxj  l.  xs. — xxj  [milites]  et  di¬ 
midium. 

Abbas  Sancti  Augustini,  xvl. — xv  milites. 

Heredes  Willelmi  de  Abrincis,  lxxs.  de  terra  quse 
fuit  Willelmi  filii  Hente — lx  [milites]  et  dimidium. 

Willelmus  de  Ros,  vij£.,  per  Alexandrem  Arsic, 
custodem  heredis. 

Comes  Gloucestriee,  xl.  in  hoc  comitatu — x  milites, 
sicut  Yicecomes  dicit. 

Robertus  de  Crevequor,  xiiij  h  ;  de  quibus  ij°  sunt  in 
manu  Regis,  ut  dicit,  Hugo  Pincerna  j,  et  Willelmus  de 
Bormelinges,  j — xiiij  milites, 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


97 


Honor  Pipperelli  de  Dovra,  viij£.  xs.  in  hoc  comitatu 
— viij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 

Petrus  de  Pratellis,  [  ]  de  scutagio  suo.1 

Isti  habent  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Alexander  Arsic,  Hugo  Bardulfus,  Garinus  filius 
Geroldi,  Jollandus  de  Neville,  Comes  Moretonige, 
Comes  de  Pertico,  Galfridus  de  Say,  Comes  de  Augo, 
Radulfus  Tesson,  Johannes  de  Pratellis,  Adam  de  Port. 

In  tertio  [scutagio]  annotantur  subscripti  de 

HONORE  PlPERELLI  DE  DOVRA. 

Hamo  de  Gyronde — iij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Boclande — quartam  [partem  militis]. 
Hugo  Juvenis — j  militem. 

Hamo  de  Chileham — dimidium  militem. 

Nicholaus  filius  Baldewini — dimidium  militem. 
Johannes  de  Herste — j  militem. 

Robertus  Clericus — dimidium  militem. 

Johannes  filius  Elyse — dimidium  militem. 

Summa  vij  [milites]  et  quartam  [partem]. 
Londonia.  Middelsexa. 

Episcopus  Londoniensis,  xxl.  Idem  in  tertio — xx 
milites. 

Essexa.  Hertford. 

Willelmus  de  Raymes,  viij  l. — viij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Helion,  xl. — x  milites. 

Rieardus  de  Raimes,  xl. — x  milites. 

Gunnore  de  Valoniis,  xxxl. — xxx  milites. 

Gilbertus  de  Tame,  vijZ.  xs. — vij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Willelmus  filius  Roberti,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 
Henricus  de  Valoniis,  lxs.  in  hiis  comitatibus — iij 
milites. 

1  Sic  in  MS.  and  T.  R. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


63377. 


G 


98 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SC  ACC  ARIO. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


Abbas  Sancti  Albani,  vj£.  in  hiis  comitatibus — vj 
milites. 

Osbertus  de  Mara,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Hastinges,  Is.  in  hiis  comitatibus — ij 
milites  et  dimidium. 

Willelmus  de  Coleville,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Sancto  Claro,  xxxs. — j  [militem]  et 
dimidium. 

Simon  Peche,  vs. — quartam  partem  [militis]. 

Rogerus  Tallebot,  Is. — ij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 

Willelmus  filius  Ranulfi,  vijs.  vj  d. 

Eustacbius  de  Baillol,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Cornhulle,  xls.  in  hiis  comitatibus — ij 
milites. 

Robertus  Monachus,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Ernulfus  d$  Mondeville,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 


Isti  HABENT  QUIETANTIAM  PER  BREVIA. 

Albericus  de  Ver,  G[alfridus]  filius  Petri,  Garinus  filius 
Geroldi,  Ricardus  de  Montefichet,  Robertus  filius  Galtebi, 
Comes  de  Ferrariis,  Galfridus  de  Say,  Hugo  de  Neville, 
Comes  Arundellise,  Hugo  Bardulf,  Radulfus  Gernun, 
Comes  de  Pertico. 


ISTI  ADJICIUNTUR  SOLVENTES  IN  TERTIO  [SCUTAGIO], 

Robertus  filius  Walteri,  xliij l.  xs. — xliij  milites  et 
dimidium. 

Albericus  de  Yer,  xxx£.  ijs.  vjd. 

Henricus  filius  Gar  [ini]  filius  Ger[oldi],  liij£.  —  liij 
milites. 

Galfridus  filius  Petri,  iiijxxxviij£.  vjs.  viijd. 

Isti  IN  TERTIO  QUI  NON  IN  SECUNDO. 

Vicecomes  reddit  compotum,  de  xxs.  de  scutagio 
Mathsei  de  Gerardville — j  militem. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


99 


Idem,  xxs.  de  feodo  Albani  Hairon — -j  militem. 

Idem,  xlj£.  et  jm.  de  parte  militum  honoris  Piperelli  de 
Londonia  qui  sunt  in  baillia  sua — xlj  milites  et  duas 
partes. 


SUDHANTESCIRA. 

Episcopus  Wintoniensis,  xE. — xl  milites. 

Robertus  de  Ponte  Arche,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Abbas  de  Hida,  xxl. — xx  milites. 

Adam  de  Port,  lv£. — lv  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Aldelini,  xxvs. — -j  [militem]  et 
quartam. 

De  hiis  qui  non  habent  capitales  honores. 

Thomas  de  Sancto  Yalerico,  xxs. — j  militem. 
Willelmus  de  Solariis,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Eo.  G8.  Michael  de  Lovers,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Alanus  de  Chetlega,  ijs. 

Radulfus  de  Tambray,1  xs. — dimidium  militem. 
Rogerus  Pantulfus,  iiijs. 

Robertus  de  Maysi,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Albernun,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Chaugrave,  xxE. — vjam  partem. 
Willelmus  de  Homez,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Soneworde,  xvs. — iij  partes. 

Isti  sunt  quieti  per  brevia. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  Robertus  de  Ewias,  Henri' 
cus  de  Novo  Mercato,  Willelmus  de  Roumare. 

De  illis  qui  finem  fecerunt  pro  passagio. 

Ricardus  de  Dummere  [pro]  j  milite. 

Uxor  Galfridi  filii  Azonis  pro  j  milite. 


G  2 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


1  Rectius  Cambray. 


100 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


Isti  quieti  supra  solverunt  in  tertio. 

Willelmus  de  Roumare,  iiij£.  iiijti  in  hoc  comitatu. 
Robertus  de  Ewias,  xls.  in  hoc  comitatu — ij  milites. 
Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  xxvs. — -j  militem  et  quartam. 
Henri cus  de  Novo  Mercato,  xxs. — j  militem. 

OxONEFORD. 

Gerard  de  Campville,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Linguiure,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Oyli,  xxxij£. — xxxij  milites. 

Radulfus  filius  Wigan  i,  vs. — iiijam  partem  [militis]. 
Stephanus  filius  Philippi  de  Hamtone,  xxs. — j  militem. 
Heredes  Walkelin  Hareng,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

De  hiis  qui  non  habent  capitales  honores. 

Ricardus  de  Oyli,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Osbertus  de  Heddendone,  ijs.  viijd. 

Rogerus  de  Linguiure,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 
Walterus  de  Vemun,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Alcrinto[n],  xviijs.  ij d. 

Lillingstane,  vs. — quartam  partem  [militis]. 

Ricardus  filius  Nigelli,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Cestria,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  de  Lascy,  xiiijs. 

Radulfus  de  Sumeri,  xxs.  in  Chiselhamtone  — 
j  militem. 

Rolondrich,  xs.,  per  Vicecomitem — dimidium  militem. 

Isti  habent  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Alexander  Arsic,  Willelmus  de  Homez,  Hervicus  Bagot, 
Guido  de  Laval,  Radulfus  Musard,  Willelmus  de  Stote- 
ville,  Robertus  de  Haroucurt,  Willelmus  de  Vernun, 
Comes,  ut  in  [tertio]. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


101 


Et  nota  quod  Robertus  de  Haroucurt  debet  ij  parte[s] 
quia  ibi  con[tinetur]  Robertus  de  Haroucurt  debet  dimi¬ 
diam  marcam  de  primo  scutagio  quia  recognovit  per 
breve  quod  attulit  de  habenda  quietantia  quod  debet 
respondere  de  ij  partibus  feodi  j  militis. 

Idem  in  tertio  scutagio. 

Dorset.  Sumerset. 

Abbsa  Glastoniae,  xU. — xl  milites. 

Nicholaus  Meriet,  xxxviijs.  i xd.  de  j  feodo  et  alio  feodo 
et  dimidio  Montis  Acuti. 

Willelmus  filius  Willelmi,  lxs. — iij  milites. 

Johannes  de  Monte  Acuto,  ix£.  vijs.  vj d. 

Radulfus  filius  Willelmi,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  de  Cultura — j  militem. 

Fulco  de  Alnou,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Phelippus  filius  Roberti,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Monde  ville,  xxs.,  per  Vicecomitem — 
j  militem. 

Abbatia  Abbodesbiry,  xls.,  per  eundem — j  militem. 

Abbatia  de  Cerne,  xls.,  per  eundem — ij  milites. 

Willelmus  Polein,  xijs.  vj  d.,  per  eundem. 

Willelmus  filius  Johannis  de  Harpetre,  vjs.  iijc?. 

Abbatia  Sancti  Edwardi,  vijL 

Robertus  Belet,  xxs.  Item,  xvl.1 

Abbas  Scireburnise,  xliiijs. 

Ricardus  filius  Willelmi,  vij£.  vs.  de  feodo  Montis 
Acuti — vij  milites  et  iiijam. 

Episcopus  Bathoniensis,  xxl. — xx  milites. 

Abbatia  Muchelneiae,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Philippus  de  Columbariis,  xl. — x  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Kahaignes,  qui  tunc  fuit  Yicecomes, 
xl.  xijs.  vjd  de  xvj  feodis  de  feodo  Moretoniae. 
Idem,  lxs.2 


1  De  medietate  honoris  de  Pour- 
stoke. — T.  R. 


*  De  scutagio. — T.  R. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


102 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


Henricus  Lovel,  xj£.  xs.  Idem,  iiij£.  xvd.  de  feodo 
Montis  Acuti. 

Wandrille1  de  Curceles,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Moyun,  xlj£.,  per  Yicecomitem — xlj 
milites. 

Willelmus  Martel,  iiij£.  xviijs.  i xd.  de  feodo  Montis 
Acuti. 

Thomas  filius  Briani,  Willelmus  Austrucarius,  Bobertus 
Malherbe,  xxs.  de  j  feodo  in  hiis  comitatibus. 

Isti  habent  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Walterus  de  Esselega,  Alvredus  de  Lincolnia, 
Henricus  de  Tylli,  Ricardus  dei  Estre,  Willelmus  de  *'°- 68cl- 
Monte  Acuto,  Willelmus  filius  Johannis  de  Harpetre, 
Robertus  de  Pola,  Galfridus  filius  Geroldi,  Willelmus 
Malet. 


Idem  in  tertio  scutagio,  sed  ibidem.2 

Alvredus  de  Lincolnia,  xxvl.  xl d. 

Ricardus  dei  Estre,  liiijs.  ijd. 

Willelmus  de  Monte  Acuto,  xl. — x  milites. 

Robertus  Belet,  xvl.  de  medietate  honoris  de  Poer- 
stoke. 

Isti  apponuntur  in  tertio  scutagio  qui  non  appo¬ 
nuntur  IN  SECUNDO  ;  ET  ETIAM  DE  HIIS  QUI  FINEM 
FECERUNT  PRO  PASSAGIO.3 

Ricardus  Cotele  pro  j  milite. 

Henricus  Tortes  Mains  pro  j  milite. 


1  Rectius  Wandregisilus. 

2  This  heading,  which  is  not  rubri¬ 

cated  in  the  MS.,  is  somewhat  ob¬ 
scure,  hut  the  meaning  appears  to 
be  that  whilst  the  above  names  are 
entered  again  under  the  third  scu¬ 
tage,  the  four  following  ones  are 
mentioned  for  the  first  time  in  the 
returns  of  that  scutage. 


3  The  meaning  of  this  heading 
is,  as  shown  by  a  direction  on  the 
Roll,  that  the  fines  “ne  transfre¬ 
tarent  ”  have  been  entered  sepa¬ 
rately  from  the  two  scutages, 
although  containing  payments 
which  should  properly  have  been 
made  in  respect  of  the  third  scu¬ 
tage. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


103 


Thomas  de  Lovertone  pro  j  milite. 

Adam  de  Cosintone  pro  j  milite. 

Mater  Willelmi  de  Aure  pro  j  milite. 

Galfridus  Foliot  pro  j  milite. 

Radulfus  filius  Bernardi  pro  j  milite. 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato  pro  j  milite. 

Robertus  le  Bigod  pro  dimidio  milite. 

Uxor J  Galfridi  filii  Azonis  pro  j  milite. 

Walterus  de  Doneheved  pro  j  milite. 

Thomas  de  Grenville  pro  j  milite  et  dimidio. 
Willelmus  de  Sancto  Leodegario  pro  j  milite. 

Radulfus  filius  Willelmi  pro  v  [militibus]  et  dimidio. 
Simon  le  Bret  pro  ij  militibus. 

Willelmus  de  Broctone  pro  j  milite. 

Rogerus  de  Arundel  pro  iij  militibus. 

Johannes  de  Campo  Florido  pro  j  milite. 

Rogerus  de  Bedmaltone  pro  iij  militibus. 

Rotelande. 

Walkelin  de  Ferrariis,  xxxs.  in  hoc  comitatu  — 
j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Henricus  de  Ermenters,  xls.  in  hoc  comitatu — ij 
milites. 

Comes  Warwikse,  c s.  in  hoc  comitatu — v  milites. 
Ricardus  Abbas,  xxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — j  militem. 
Baldewinus  Wac,  xxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — j  militem. 
Willelmus  de  Homez,  xxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — j  militem. 
Radulfus  de  Sumery,  dimidiam  marcam  in  hoc 
comitatu — tertiam  partem  [militis]. 

Petrus  de  Lohereng,  dimidiam  marcam  in  hoc  comitatu 
— iijam  partem  [militis]. 

Gloucestresira. 

Margareta  de  Bohon  xvij£. — xvij  milites. 

Robertus  filius  Mauricii,  cs. — v  milites. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


1  Agnes  quae  fuit  tuor. — T.  R. 


104 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


Robertus  de  Berkelay,  vijZ.  xs. — vij  [milites]  et 

dimidium. 

Ricardus  de  Scropis,  lx.s. — iij  milites. 

Patricius  de  Chaorcis,  xij£.  xs. — xij  [milites]  et 

dimidium. 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato,  xvijk  xjs.  iiijcZ. 

Otvel  de  Sudlega,  Ixs. — iij  milites. 

Abbas  Winchecumbiae,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Radulfus  filius  Stephani,  xx.s.  in  hoc  comitatu — 
j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Chamdos,  xl.s.  in  hoc  comitatu — ij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Cormeiles,  xviijs.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Walterus  de  Esselega,  xs.  in  hoc  comitatu — dimidium 
militem. 

Idem,  in  tertio  [scutagio],  sed  inter  illos  qui  habuerunt 
quietantiam  per  brevia  apponuntur  isti : 

Alardus  Flandrensis  et  Almaricus  Dispensator. 


Norhamtesira. 

Abbas  de  Burgo,  lxl. — lx  milites. 

Hugo  de  Lisures,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Draintone,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 
Robertus  de  Cortenay,  Ixs. — iij  milites. 

Ricardus  Basset,  xvl. — xv  milites. 

Ricardus  Foliot,  xiij  l.  xvs. — xiij  milites  et  iij  partes. 
Honor  de  Chokes,  xvl.,  per  Yicecomitem  ;  de  quibus  in 
perdonis  Roberto  de  Quency,  xls.  in  Bukeby,  per  breve 
Regis. 

Willelmus  de  Dustone,  xxs.  de  feodo  de  Dustone. 


De  hiis  qui  non  habent  capitales  honores. 

Johannes  de  Bidon,  xxvs.  in  hoc  comitatu,  per  Yice- 
comitem — j  militem  et  quintam  [partem]. 

Eustachius  de  Watford,  xxs.,  per  eundem — j  militem. 
Honor  Piperelli,  cvs.  in  hoc  comitatu,  per  Yicecomitem 
— v  milites  et  quintani. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


105 


Feoda  de  Morteis,  viij£.  xxijti,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Robertus  Marmion,  xs.,  per  Vicecomitem — dimidium 
militem. 

Robertus-  de  Munbray,  xxs.,  per  eundem — j  militem. 

Feodum  de  Wiklega,  xviijs. 

Eustachius  de  Baillol,  xxs.,  per  Vicecomitem  — 
j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Prestone,  dimidium  feodum  in  Grettone  et  xxvZ. 
de  feodi  firma,  sicut  continetur  in  Rotulo  vjt0  Regis  Johannis  in 
Norhamtesira.1 


Salopsira. 

Fo.  6'j.  Willelmus  filius  Alani,  xxvij£.  xs. — xxvij  [milites]  et 
dimidium. 

Radulfus  de  Erderne,  cs. — v  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Botereins,  ix£.  de  honore  Galfridi  de 
Ver — ix  milites  ;  et  cs.  de  scutagio  Eudonis  Dapiferi — 
v  milites. 

Robertus  de  Boterellis,  lxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — iij  milites. 

Guido  Extraneus,  xxxs. — -j  [militem]  et  dimidium. 

Hugo  de  Picheford,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Witefeld,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Dunstan ville,  xxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — 
j  militem. 

Hugo  Pantulfus,  lxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — iij  milites. 

Robertus  Corbet,  cs.  in  hoc  comitatu — v  milites. 

Feoda  quae  fuerunt  Girardi  de  Tornay,  lxs.  vj d. 

Idem  per  omnia  in  tertio. 


Notingham.  Dereby. 

Rogerus  Burdun,  xl.,  per  Vicecomitem — x  milites, 
lladulfus  Hanselin,  xxvl. — xxv  milites. 

Radulfus  Musard,  xij£. — xij  milites. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


1  This  last  entry  is  inserted  in  a  hand  of  Edward  I. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


106  LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

Hubertus  filius  Radulfi.1 

Willelmus  de  Chaorcis,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Honor  Piperelli,  1  xl.  xs. ;  de  quibus  in  perdonis 
Henrico  de  Gray,  c s.  pro  v  feodis. 

Rogerus  de  Moubray,  Is.  in  hiis  comitatibus — ij  [mi¬ 
lites]  et  dimidium. 

Comes  de  Ferrariis,  lxviij£.  xs. — lxviij  milites  et 
dimidium. 

Honor  de  Gant,  cs.  in  hiis  comitatibus — v  milites. 

H  onor  de  Richemunt,  xxxijs. 

Archiepiscopus  Eboracensis,  xxs.  in  hiis  comitatibus — 
j  militem. 

Isti  habuerunt  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Hugo  Bardulfus,  Oli  verus  de  Aencurt,  Rogerus  de 
Mortuo  Mari,  Henricus  de  Stoteville. 

Honor  de  Tykehulle,  \xl.  xs.  de  scutagio. 

Cantebrige.  Huntindonesira. 

Gilbertus  Peche,  xixl.  xxd. 

Honor  de  Brunne,  ijm.  et  dimidiam,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Robertus  Picot,  xxxs. — j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Willelmus  de  Scalariis,  xvl. — xv  milites. 

Abbas  Rameseyse,  iiijZ. — iiij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Scalariis,  xvl.  vjs.  viij<A 

Ricardus  filius  Walteri  Engaine,  dimidiam  marcam — 
tertiam  partem  [militis]. 

Rogerus  de  Lovetot,  xl. — x  milites. 

G[alfridus]  filius  Petri,  Ijs.  de  honore  Galfridi  de  Say. 

Robertus  de  Gimeges,  xxs.  in  hiis  comitatibus — 
j  militem. 

Albreda  Trussebut,  ijm.  et  dimidiam. 

Leonia  de  Stoteville,  ijm.  et  dimidiam  de  parte  sua  de 
honore  de  Brunne. 


1  Sic  in  MS  ;  Habet  quietantiam  |  fecit  cum  liege  sicut  continetur  in 
de  scutagio  •  suo  per  finem  quem  J  Rotulo  precedenti. — T.  R. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


107 


Berkesira. 

Abbas  Abbendoniae,  xxxh — xxx  milites. 

Willelmus  Achard,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Halnad  de  Sifregast,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Thoroldus  de  Pesemere,  xs.,  qui  ideo  reddit  quia 
dominus  suus  noluit  recipere  homagium  suum — dimi¬ 
dium  militem. 

De  hiis  qui  non  habent  capitales  honores. 

Hugo  de  Sotenbroc,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Johannes  Belet,  xxiiijs. — -j  [militem]  et  quintam. 

Johannes  Visus  Lupi,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato.,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Clifford,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Abbas  de  Hida,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Cilly,  vs. — quartam  partem. 

Thomas  de  Sancto  Valerico,  xxvs. — j  [militem]  et 
quartam  partem. 

Bartholomseus  de  Andeville,  xs.  de  honore  de  Brunne 
— dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Belmeis,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  de  Ermenters,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Hervi  de  Dokesworde,  dimidiam  marcam — tertiam 
[partem  militis]. 

Ricardus  de  Scropes,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Windesores,  xls.  in  hoc  comitatu — ij 
milites. 

Hugo  de  Say,  xs.  in  hoc  comitatu — dimidium  militem. 

Johannes  Mautravers,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Comes  de  Warwika,  xlvs.  in  hoc  comitatu — ij  [milites] 
et  quartam. 

Episcopus  Wintoniensis,  xs.  in  hoc  comitatu — dimi¬ 
dium  militem. 

Willelmus  Longespeye,  xs.  in  hoc  comitatu — dimidium 
militem. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


108 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


Fo.  69d. 


Ricardus  de  Orescoil,  x.s.  in  hoc  comitatu — dimidium 
militem. 

Ricardus  de  Sifregast,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Vermin,  xvl. — xv  milites. 

Adam  de  Port,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Gerard  de  Caumpville,  vs. — quartam  partem. 

Philippus  de  Sand[e]ville,  xxs.  de  honore  de  Sciptone 
— j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Oyli,  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Johannes  de  Hastinges,  xxs. — -j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Mortuo  Mari,  lxxs. — iij  [milites]  et 
dimidium. 

Henricus  de  Pinkeygni,  lxxs. — iij  [milites]  et  di¬ 
midium. 


Isti  sunt  quieti  per  breve. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  Henricus  de  Bohun,  Willel¬ 
mus  de  Roumara,  Radulfus  Musard,  Comes  Cestrise, 
Willelmus  de  Boclande,  Comes  de  Ferrariis,  Radulfus 
de  Somery. 

WlGORNIA. 

Episcopus  Wigorniensis,  xlixL  vjs. 

Abbas  Eveshamias,  iiiji.  xs. — iiij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Abbas  Persorse,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Abbas  Westmonasterii,  xvl. — xv  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Somery,  iiiji.  vjs.  iiijcZ. 

Willelmus  de  Bello  Campo,  vij l. — vij  milites. 

De  militibus  Episcopatus,  scilicet,  de  Ricardo  le  Poer 
dimidium  militem — dimidium  [militem].1 

Adam  de  Crumbe,  j  militem  et  dimidium — j  [militem] 
et  dimidium.1 

Johannes  de  Estone — dimidium  [militem]. 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato,  j  militem. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

Bukinghamsira.  Bedefordsira. 

Hugo  de  Kahaingnes,  j m. 

Petrus  Surriva,1  xs. — dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  iiij.s. — quintam  partem. 

Huge  filius  Alani,  ijs.  vjd. — viijam  partem. 

Willelmus  de  Scirintone,  xls. — ij  milites. 

Herbertus  de  Bolebek,  xxs. — j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Pinkeyni,  xiijZ.  xs. — xiij  milites  et 
dimidium. 

Johannes  de  Bidon,  vj \l.  xs. — x  milites  et  dimidium. 

Radulfus  de  Sumery,  ixZ.  xijc/.  in  hoc  comitatu.1 

Advocatus  de  Betune,  xjs.  in  hoc  comitatu.1 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato,  xs.  in  h[iis]  comitat[ibus] — 
dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  de  Gironde,  xls.  in  h[iis]  comitat[ibus] — ij 
milites. 

Robertus  Malduit,  xxxvs.  in  hoc  comitatu1 — j  militem 
et  tres  partes. 

Walterus  de  Windesores,  ixZ.  xxd.  de  medietate  honoris 
qui  fuit  Willelmi  de  Windesores. 

Alberi cus  de  Ver,  xl. — x  milites. 

Isti  habuerunt  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Simon  de  Bellocampo,  Hamo  filius  Hamonis,  Willel¬ 
mus  de  Windesores,  Comes  Albemarlse,  Oliver  de 
Aencurt,  Willelmus  Martel,  Johannes  de  Builli,  Comes 
Gloucestrise,  Comes  Moretonise,  Hugo  de  Bello  Campo, 
Galfridus  de  Say,  G[alfridus]  filius  Petri,  Thomas  Basset, 
Robertus  de  Kaioto,  Johannes  de  Pratellis,  Walterus  de 
Herte welle  de  j  milite  honoris  Piperelli,  Hugo  de  Haver- 
sham  de  j  milite  ejusdem  honoris. 

Warwik.  Leycestresira. 

Prior  Coventrise,  xl. — x  milites. 

Comes  Warwik  se,  c  l.  et  xlvjs.  viijcZ. 


109 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


1  Sic  in  MS, 


110 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  Fulco  filius  Warini,  xxs. — i  militem. 

1196—7  ° 

Emma  et  Alicia  de  Donmartin,  xxs.  in  hiis  comitatibus 

— j  militem. 

Dohun  Bardulf,  xliijs.  in  hiis  comitatibus. 

Archiepiscopus  Eboracensis,  vs.  in  hiis  comitatibus — 
iiijam  partem. 

Willelmus  Grassus,  dimidiam  marcam  in  hiis  comitati¬ 
bus — tertiam  partem. 

Robertus  de  Haroucurt,  xxvs.  in  hiis  comitatibus. 

Osbertus  de  Clintone,  xxs.  in  hiis  comitatibus — j  mi¬ 
litem. 

Radulfus  de  Sumery,  vs.  in  hiis  comitatibus — iiijam 
partem. 

Abbas  Eveshamise,  xxiiijs.  xd.  in  hiis  comitatibus. 

Johannes  de  Lymesye,  xls.,  per  H[ugonem]  Bardulf 
— ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Muntbray,  xxviijs.  in  hiis  comitatibus. 

Eutropius  Hasteng,  xxs.,  per  Radulfum  Musard. 

Willelmus  de  Albeyni,  xxxiijZ. 

Idem  in  iij°  [scutagio] ;  sed  ibi  Episcopus  Coventrensis, 
xxvl.  de  fine  ne  transfretet  et  pro  habendo  scutagio  suo 
de  xxv  militibus,  scilicet,  de  xv  militibus  de  scutagio 
Episcopatus  ;  et  de  x  de  Prioratu  Coventrise  ;  et  pl[enam] 
habent  quietantiam  qui  supra  annotantur  et  non  alii. 

Lincolnesira. 

Episcopus  Lincolniensis,  1  xl. — lx  milites. 

Girardus  de  Camp  ville,  xvj  l.  de  feodo  Ricardi  de 
Haia — xvj  milites. 

Hugo  de  Baiocis,  xvj£.  xviijs. 

Baldewinus  Wak,  xl.  ijs.  vj d. 

Lambert  de  Scoteygni,  xl. — x  milites. 

Episcopus  Dunholmensis,  xl. — x  milites. 

Archiepiscopus  Eboracensis,  ciiijs.  viijd.  in  hoc  comi¬ 
tatu. 

Fo.  70.  Robertus  filius  Roberti  filii  Herding,  xxxs.  in  hoc 
comitatu — j  militem  et  dimidium, 


RIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Ill 


Ricardus  de  Pek,  xxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — -j  militem. 

Robertus  Camerarius,  xxxijs.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Wido  de  Laval,  ijm.  et  dimidiam  [marcam]  in  hoc 
comitatu. 

Adam  Pagan ellus,  xxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Marinis,  vs.  in  hoc  comitatu — quartern 
partem  [militis]. 

Johannes  Malherbe,  xxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — j  militem. 

Comes  de  Ferrariis,  xxxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — j  militem 
et  dimidium. 

Robertus  de  Boulers,  lxxs.  in  hoc  comitatu — iij  [milites] 
et  dimidium. 

Petrus  de  Pratellis.1 

Robertus  de  Gresle.1 

Comes  Albas  Mariae.1 

Hugo  de  Verly.1 

Rogerus  de  Mortuo  Mari.1 

Isti  habuerunt  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Simon  de  Cancy,  Walterus  de  Neville,  Willelmus  de 
Longo  Campo,  Oliver  de  Aencurt,  Willelmus  de  Stote- 
ville,  Thomas  de  Arescy,  Phelippus  filius  Roberti,  Comes 
Cestriae,  Alexander  Arsic,  Hamon  filius  Hamonis,  Will¬ 
elmus  de  Roumare.2 

Isti  habuerunt  quietantiam  in  tertio  [scutagio]. 

Agnes  de  Percy,  Comes  Arundelline,  Constabularius 
Cestriae,  Fulco  Paganellus,  Willelmus  de  Muntbray, 
Garin  filius  Geroldi,  Comitissa  Warwikee,  Robertus 
Marmiun,  Robertus  Gresle,  Petrus  de  Pratellis. 

Et  dicitur  in  tertio  Hervi  Bagod  debet  x  milites  in 
hoc  comitatu ;  Hugo  de  Baiocis  finem  fecit  pro  habendo 
scutagio  suo  de  xx  militibus. 


1  No  figures  are  given  in  MS.  or 
T.  R. 


2  Herveius  Bagod  is  omitted  here, 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


112 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


CORNUBIA. 

Honor  Comitis  Reginaldi  in  Cornubia  et  Devonia, 
cxxxiiij£.  xj.9.  viijcZ.  de  ccxv  militibus  et  tertia  parte 
[militis],  feodorum  militum  suorum  qui  reddunt  ad 
feodum  Moretoniae ;  de  quibus,  in  perdonis  Roberto  de 
Cardinan,  xliiij£.  vijs.  vjci  pro  lxxj  militibus  de  prsedicto 
feodo  ;  et  Rogero  de  Valle  Torta,  lix  milites  de  praedictis 
feodis ;  Roberto  filio  Baldewini,  j  militem  ;  et  in  terra  de 
Tyhidi,  j  militem  ;  et  in  terra  de  Tredorac,  j  militem  ; 
Galfrido  de  Lascellis,  ix  milites  ;  Henrico  de  la  Pome- 
raye,  j  militem  ;  Henrico  filio  Willelmi,  iiij  milites  et 
dimidium. 

Idem  in  tertio  scutagio. 

Devonesira. 

Episcopus  Exoniensis,  xvl.  xs. 

Henricus  de  Ferrariis,  iiijxxxij£.  xvs.  viijd. 

Abbas  de  Tavistokia,  xvj£. 

Willelmus  de  Tracy,  xxvl.  vs. 

Ricardus  Pipperellus,  xvs.,  per  manus  Vicecomitis. 

Petrus  Burdun,  xxs.,  per  eundem. 

Galfridus  de  Estre,  xxs. 

Henricus  de  Tylli,  xiiij£.  xvs.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Willelmus  de  Monte  Acuto,  iiijs.  vjc?.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Oliver  de  Tracy,  xxviij£. 

Henricus  de  Nonant,  Ivi.  xviijs.  vjd. 

Willelmus  de  Braose,  xxviij^. 

Willelmus  Revel,  xxs.- 

Isti  habent  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Henricus  de  la  Pomeray,  Johannes  de  Torintone,  Comes 
Willelmus  de  Vernun,  Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato. 

Idem  in  tertio  [scutagio],  sed  Willelmus  de  Torintone, 
xxix£. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


113 


Staffordscira. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


Episcopus  Cestrensis,  xvl. 

Radulfus  de  Sumer y,  11.  de  feodo  Gervasii  Paganelli.1 
Thomas  de  Yerdun,  xxs. 

Hervi  Ba2;ot,  lxl. 

Hugo  Pantulf,  xls.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Henricus  de  Oyli,  dimidiam  marcam  in  hoc  comitatu. 
Comes  de  Ferrariis.2 
Willelmus  de  Breose.2 
Idem  in  tertio  [scutagio]. 


Sudsexa. 


Episcopus  Cicestrensis,  iiij£.  de  militibus  quos  re¬ 
cognoscit. 

Honor  de  Arundelia,  iiijzxiiij£.  xs. 

Gilbertus  de  Aquila,  xxj l.  xvijs.  vjd.  de  parvis  feodis. 

Comes  de  Au  go,  lxij7.  xs. 

Emugerus  de  Bohun,3  lxs.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Capellaria  de  Boseham,  vijh,  per  Yicecomitem. 

Willelmus  filius  Bacardi  de  Kahaignes,  xxxvijs.  vjd. 
in  hoc  comitatu. 

Norman  de  Normanville,  iiijs.  ijd.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Rogerus  de  Tony,  xls.  in  hoc  comitatu.  Fo.  7o  d. 

Hawis  de  la  Gyrche,  xls.  de  feodo  de  Wepeham. 

Henricus  de  Percy,  xxij£.  xs. 

Robertus  Peverel,  viijs.  iiijd  de  ijbus  partibus  parvi 
feodi. 

Willelmus  de  Belmeys,  vj£. 

Idem  per  omnia  in  tertio. 


Herforde  in  Wallia. 


Episcopus  Herfordiensis,  xvl. 
Walterus  de  Tormeylles,4  ix£. 


1  Sed  habet  quietantiam  per 


3  Engelerus  filius  Franconis  de 


breve. — T.  R. 

3  Sic  in  MS.  and  T.  R. 


Bonn. — T.  R. 


4  Sic  in  MS.;  rectius  Cormeilles. 


63377, 


H 


114 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


Willelmus  de  Breosa,  xvl.  de  scutagio  Johannis  de 
Munemue. 

Robertus  de  Champdos,  xiij  l.  xlcZ. 

Robertus  de  Ewias,  xixZ. 

Hugo  de  Say,  xxiijZ. 

Johannes  de  Kilpec,  xxxs. 

Walterus  de  Lascy,  ljZ. 

Honor  Adae  de  Port,  xxijZ.  xiijs.,  per  W[illelmum]  de 
Breose. 

Thomas  et  Robertus  de  Magene,  iiijs. 

Mathaeus  de  Gamages,  xls.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

J ohannes  de  Mahurdin,  dimidiam  marcam  in  hoc 
comitatu. 

Reginaldus  de  Baalon,  xxs. ;  ut  in  tertio. 

Lancastria. 

Honor  Lnncastriae,  lxxijZ.  vjs.  viijfZ.,  per  Vicecomitem  ; 
de  quibus  in  perdonis  Theobaldo  Pincernae,  lxs.  ;  et 
Roberto  Gresle,  xij  l. ;  Constabulario  Cestriae,  viijZ.  xs., 
sicut  Vicecomes  dicit. 


WlLTESIRA. 

Episcopus  Sarrisbiriensis,  xxxijZ. 

Walterus  de  Dunstanville,  xxjZ.  iiijs.  de  xxj  militibus 
et  quinta  de  hiis  quos  Willelmus  de  Sanctae  Mariae 
Ecclesia,  qui  custodit  terras  illius,  potuit  invenire  ;  de 
quibus  in  perdono  Ricardo  de  Heriet,  xxxs. 

Henricus  de  Bobon,  xxxZ.  xs. 

Abbatissa  Wiltoniae,  c s. 

Walterus  Waleram,  xxl.,  praeter  scutagium  v  militum 
quos  debet  ad  custodiam  Castri  Sarrisbirise. 

Humpridus  de  Sancto  Vigore,  xs. 

Elias  Giffarcl,  ixZ. 

Robertus  de  Mara,  xxs. 

Abbas  Malmesbiriae,  lxs. 

Elias  Crok,  xxs. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO.  115 

G[alfridus]  filius  Petri,  xxs.  in  Cyriel. 

Willelmus  Blundus,  xxs.  in  Lavintone. 

Walterus  de  Clifford,  xs.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Robertus  de  Ponte  Arche,  ijs.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Isti  habent  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Comes  Sarrisbirise,  Henricus  Hese,  Willelmus  de 
Rokella,  Thomas  de  Horslega,  Symon  Wak,  Herbert 
filius  Herberti,  Willelmus  de  Londonia,  Fulco  de  Alno. 

Isti  finem  fecerunt  pro  passagio. 

Walterus  de  Grenestede,  pro  j  milite. 

Robertus  de  Turreville,  pro  dimidio  milite. 

Galfridus  Camerarius,  pro  j  milite. 

Robertus  Giffard,  pro  j  milite. 

Norfolc.  Suffolc. 

Willelmus  de  Donmartyn,  xxs. 

Rogerus  de  Kentewelle,  xl. 

Abbas  de  Hulmo,  lxxviij.s. 

Willelmus  de  Colkirke,  xs. 

Walterus  dei  JBek,  xxs. 

Episcopus  Norwicensis,  xll. 

Abbas  Sancti  Edmundi,  xl/. 

Odo  de  Dan  martin,  xxs. 

Radulfus  filius  Ribaud,  xs. 

Gunnore  de  Valoniis,  xxs.  in  hiis  comitatibus. 
Walterus  le  Ver  et  Willelmus  filius  Oliveri,  xxs.  in 
hiis  comitatibus. 

Willelmus  de  Warenne,  xiiijZ.  vs. 

Walterus  filius  Roberti,  xiiijZ.  xs.  in  hiis  comitatibus. 
Comes  de  Clara,  cxxxij/.  xiijs. 

Rogerus  le  Bigod,  cxxv/. 

Symon  de  Abrincis,  iiij/.  xvs.  per  Vice  comitem. 
Johannes  de  Rocheford,  xs.,  per  eundem,  in  hiis  comi¬ 
tatibus. 

h  2 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


116 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 

Eo.  71. 


Honor  de  Eye,  iiijxxxZ.  xs.,  per  Yicecomitem 1  ;  de 
quibus  in  perdonis  Roberto  filio  Rogeri,  j£.2  pro  xj 
feodis,  sicut  Yicecomes  1  dicit ;  et  Willelmo  de  Glanville, 
iiijZ.  xs. 

Comes  Arundelliae,  lxxvjh 

Hubertus  de  Rya,  xxxxl. 

Lucas  de  Debbeham,  xls. 

Comes  Conanus,  xj£.  jm. 

Isti  habent  quietantiam  per  brevia. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  Comes  Warennae,  Willelmus 
Escorcheveille,  Warinus  filius  Geroldi,  Comes  Cestriae, 
Comes  Albericus,  G[alfridus]  filius  Petri,  Philippus  filius 
Roberti,  Hugo  Bardulfus. 

Eboracsira. 

Willelmus  de  Muntbray,  iiijxxviijh  xd. 

Comes  Warikae,  xxl.  de  parte  sua  de  feodo  Willelmi  de 
Percy. 

Willelmus  Pagenellus,  xxl. 

Amprey  de  Cancy,  c s.,  per  Hugonem  Murdake. 

Robertus  filius  Stepbani,  xxiijs.  iiijd. 

Gwido  de  Laval,  xxl. 

Rogerus  de  Cestria,  xliij£.  xvs. 

Willelmus  Fossard,  xxxjl.  xs. 

Willelmus  de  Stoteville,  viij£. 

Agnes  de  Percy,  xxl. 

Eustachius  de  Yescy,  xxiiij/.  vjs.  viijd. 

Comes  Albae  Mariae,  xiij£.  de  feodo  Alexandri  filii 
Geroldi. 

Robertus  de  Gant,  xij£.  xs. 

Willelmus  filius  Ranulfi,  lxvjs. 

Hamon  filius  Hamonis  et  Robertus  de  Boul[er]s,  lviijs. 
de  duabus  partibus  de  Wartre. 


1  Sic  in  MS. ;  Custos. — T.  R.  |  2  Sic  in  MS. ;  xj\. — T.  R, 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO.  117 

Comes  Albae  Mariae,  xxl.  de  feodo  Heudernesse. 

Adam  de  Brus,  xwl. 

Robertus  de  Brus,  c s.  de  feodo  ejusdem  Adae. 

Hamon  filius  Hamonis  et  Robertus  de  Boullers,  xm. 
de  partibus  illi3  quas  tenent  de  feodo  Trussebut. 

Agnes  de  Percy,  cxs.  de  feodo  Jocelin  de  Lovein. 

Episcopus  Dunhelmensis,  xl.  de  militibus  quos  recog¬ 
noscit,1  et  lx£.  xviijs.  iiijd.  de  militibus  quos  non  recog¬ 
noscit,1  quia  episcopatus  est  in  manu  Regis. 

A[n]dreas  de  Filgeriis,  xxs. 

Robertus  de  Ros,  vjZ.  xviijd. 

Constancia  Comitissa  Britanniae,  c  xl?.  de  c  et  xl 
militibus  quos  Thomas  de  Burgo  senescallus  ejusdem 
recognovit 2  pertinere  ad  honorem  Britanniae  in  Anglia. 


EX  ROTULIS  ESCAETARUM. 

Honor  de  Bentone. 

Honor  de  Bentone,  vij  A  viijs. ;  et  de  quibus  in  per- 
dono  Thomae  de  Lavertone  in  Somersete,  xxs. 

Sudsexa. 

Honor  de  Arundel,  iiijxxiiijL  xs. 

OXONEFORDSIRA. 

Thomas  de  Sancto  Walerico,  xviiji.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Berkescira. 

Honor  de  Walingeforde,  c l.  vs. 


A.D. 

1196-7. 


1  recongnoscit  in  MS. 


2  recongnovit  in  MS. 


118 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SC  ACC  ARIO. 


A.D. 

1199-1200. 
Eo.  71  d. 


7  ANNUS  ^EfilMUS  REGIS  JOHANNIS. 

'  SCUTAGIUM  NORMANNUE  ASSISUM  AD  ' 

II  MARCAS. 

SUDSEXA. 

Yicecomes  [reddit  compotum]  de  Capellaria  de  Bose- 
ham,  xl.  de  vij  militibus  et  dimidio,  ut  dicit. 

Willelmus  de  Kahaignes,  iij  feoda  de  Mortone. 

Norman  de  Normanville,  tertiam  partem  [feodi]  de 
Mortene. 

Hawis  de  Guircha,  iiij  milites  de  feodo  de  Wepham. 

Henricus  de  Percy,  xlvm. 

Willelmus  de  Belmes,  xijm. 

Episcopus  Cicestrensis,  viijm. 

Comes  Arundellioe,  Gillebert  de  Aquila,  Willelmus  Bri- 
werre,  Willelmus  de  Breosa,  Comes  de  Augo,  Robertus 
Peverel.1 

Lincoln  esira. 

Episcopus  Lincolniensis,  cxxm. 

Simon  de  Cancy,  xm. 

Lambert  de  Scoteigny,  xxm. 

Episcopus  Donholmensis,  xxm. 

Walterus  de  Neville,  xxiiijm. 

Robertus  de  Boulers,  vijm. 

Guido  de  Laval,  iijm.  iiijs.  vj d. 

Ricardus  de  Marines,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Adam  Paganellus,  ijm. 

Baldewinus  Wak,  xxm.  et  xlci 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Phelippus  filius  Roberti,  Alexander  Arsic,  Eustachius 
de  Yescy,  Comes  de  Ferrariis,  Thomas  de  Arscy,  Wal¬ 
terus  de  Ely,  Willelmus  de  Longo  Campo,  G[erardus] 
de  Gan  ville, 2  Johannes  Malherbe,  Robertus  Camerarius, 

1  Sic  in  MS. ;  Isti  habent  quie- 

tantiam  per  brevia. — T.  R. 


2  Rectius  Camville. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


119 


Episcopus  Londoniensis,  Ricardus  de  Sanford,  Willel- 
mus  de  Albeyni,  Petrus  de  Pratell[is],  Robertus  Gresle, 
Comes  de  Albemarle,  Abbas  de  Burgo,  Robertus  de 
Haya,  Radulfus  filius  Stephani,  Willelmus  Pincerna, 
Warinus  filius  Geroldi,  Robertus  de  Ros,  Robertus 
Marmion,  Radulfus  Foliot,  Johannes  Belet, 

Cantebruge.  Hunti[n]gdonesira. 

Nigellus  de  Lovetot,  xxm. 

Ricardus  filius  Garneri  Engayne,  jm.  in  hoc  comi¬ 
tatu.1 

Robertus  de  Gymeges,  ijm.  in  hoc  comitatu.1 

Robertus  Picot,  ijm. 

Radulfus  Picot,  iiijm.  in  hoc  comitatu.1 

Abbas  Rameseise,  viij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Say,  ijm.  et  dimidiam  in  hoc  comitatu.1 

Albreda  Trussebut,  xliiijs.  vd. 

Vicecomes,  xxxijm,  de  honore  Britanniae  in  h[iis] 
comitat[ibus]. 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Episcopus  Ely,  Gillebert  Peche,  Willelmus  de  Sca- 
lariis,  Hugo  de  Scalariis,  Albricus  de  Yer,  Henricus 
de  Stoteville  de  feodo  Leoniae  de  Stoteville,  Gilbertus 
de  Tame,  Adam  de  Port,  Elias  de  Bello  Campo,  Comes 
Arundelliae. 

Staffordsira. 

Episcopus  Cestrensis,  xxl.2 

Hervi  Bagod  quater,  xxl. 

Hugo  Pantulfus,  iiij  m. 

Henricus  de  Oyli,  viijs.  xd.  ob. 

Comes  de  Ferrariis,  ijm.  et  dimidiam  de  j  milite  et 
quarta  [parte]  in  hoc  comitatu. 

1  Sic  in  MS.  |  2  An  erasure  in  MS. 


A.D. 

1199-1200. 


120 


UBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


a.d.  Quieti  per  brevia. 

1199-1200. 

Comes  Cestriae,  Radulfus  de  Sumery,  Thomas  de 
Verdone,  Willelmus  filius  Alani,  viijm.  in  hoc  comi¬ 
tatu. 

Wiltesira. 

Episcopus  Sarrisbiriensis,  lxiiijm. 

Henricus  de  Bohun,  lxjm. 

Abbatissa  Wiltoniae,  xm. 

Walterus  Waleran,  1  m. 

Walterus  de  Grimstede,  ijm. 

Garnerus  de  Insures,  ijm. 

Hunfridus  de  Sancto  Vigore,  jm. 

Fo.  72.  Elias  Giffard,  xviijm. 

Willelmus  de  Rokella,  ijm. 

Henricus  Hose,  ijm. 

Abbas  Malmesbiriae,  vjm.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

G[alfridus]  filius  Petri,  ijm.  in  Ciriel. 

Simon  Wak,  ijm. 

Willelmus  Briwerre,  jm. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  ijm. 

Fulco  de  Alno,  j  militem  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Henricus  Hose  de  Hertynge,  ijm.  de  scutagio  de 
Standene. 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Comes  Sarrisbiriae,  Episcopus  Londoniensis,  Comes 
Leycestriae,  Robertus  de  Tresgoz,  Garinus  filius  Ge- 
roldi,  Alanus  Basset,  Petrus  de  Stokes,  Ingeram  de 
Pratellis,  Elias  Croc,  Thomas  filius  Henrici,  Robertus 
Giffard,  Robertus  de  Mara. 

Corn  Ubia. 

Honor  Comitis  Reginaldi  in  Cornubia  et  Devonia 
qui  reddunt  scutagium  ad  feodum  Moretoniae,  ccxv 
[milites]  et  tertia  pars  [militis] ;  de  quibus  Robertus 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


121 


de  Cardinan  tenet  lxxj  milites,  et  Rogerus  de  Valle 
Torta  lix  milites. 

Galfridus  de  Lascellis,  ixm. 

Stephaniis  Flandrensis,  vijm. 

Ricardus  filius  Ricardi,  j  m. 

Johannes  de  Monte  Acuto,  j  m. 

Willelmus  Basset,  j  m. 

Faramus  de  Walebrang,  jm. 

Gervasius  de  Hornicote,  ijm.  et  dimidiam. 

Alanus  Bloy,  iijm. 

Nicholaus  de  Middeltone,  iiijm. 

Radulfus  de  Rupe,  ijm. 

In  Thihidin,  dominico  Regis,  jm. 

Devonia. 

Episcopus  Exoniensis,  xxxj  milites. 

Idem,  xxxvm.  vs.  viijd  de  hiis  quos  non  recognoscit.1 
Abbas  de  Tavistokia,  xxxijm. 

Henricus  de  Tracy,  lm.  et  dimidiam. 

Honor  de  Bamptone,  xvm. 

Hugo  Peverel,  xxs. 

Galfridus  dei  Estre,  ijm. 

Petrus  Burdun,  ijm. 

Willelmus  de  Novo  Mercato,  jm. 

Comes  Willelmus  de  Ripariis,  xxxm. 

Willelmus  de  Monte  Acuto,  vs.  iiijc?. 

Willelmus  filius  Martini,  xm. 

Willelmus  Revel,  ijm. 

Willelmus  de  Breosa,  lvm. 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Henricus  de  Ferrariis,  Henricus  de  Pomeray,  Johannes 
de  Tovertone,2  01iver[us]  de  Tracy,  Henricus  de  Tilly. 


A.D. 

1199-1200. 


1  recongnoacit  in  MS. 


2  Sic  in  MS.;  rectius  Torintone. 


122 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


AD-  Notingeham.  Dereby. 

1199-1200. 

Honor  Peverelli,  iiijW.  j m.,  per  Vicecomitem ;  de 
quibus — 

Comes  de  Ferrariis,  iij  feoda  in  Becham. 

Johannes  de  Monte  Acuto,  j  feodum. 

Hugo  de  Insula,  iij  feoda. 

Ricardus  de  Vernun,  j  feodum  et  dimidium. 

Eustachius  de  Moretone,  iij  feoda. 

Henricus  de  Gray,  vj  feoda. 

In  Emintone  et  Mallintone,  ij  feoda. 

In  Oxonefordsira  et  in  Bartone  in  Suffolcia,  j  feodum. 
Et  in  Torindone  in  Essexa,j  feodum. 

Et  j  feodum  in  Keilmerse  in  Norhamtesira  de  feodo 
Yvonis  de  Heriz. 

Et  j  feodum  et  dimidium  in  Deresburgo  de  feodo 
Willelmi  de  Sancto  [Patricio]. 

Et  j  feodum  in  Hoggesawe  quod  Hospitalarii  tenent. 
Et  in  Bolesovra,  ij  feoda  et  dimidium. 

Nota,  quod  in  compoto  honoris  datur  comiti  de  Bar 
c s.  de  quarta  parte  in  Bolesovra,  et  amodo  totum. 

Honor  de  Tykehulle,  cxxjm.  et  dimidiam. 

Item  Rogerus  de  Buron,  x  feoda. 

Willelmus  de  Chahurcis,  j  feodum. 

To.  72  b.  CUMBERLANDE. 

Ranulfus  de  Vallibus,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Brus,  j  militem. 

Westmerlande. 

G[ilbertus]  filius  Reinfridi,  ij  milites. 

Herforde  in  Wallia. 

Episcopus  Herfordiensis,  xxx  milites. 

Walterus  de  Cormeiles,  viij l.  praeter  iij  feoda. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


123 


Robertus  de  Chamdos,  xvij£.  xjs.  jd. 

Johannes  de  Kilpec,  xls. 

Reginaldus  de  Baalon,  j m. 

Willelmus  de  Breosa,  xxxm.  pro  Johanne  de  Mu- 
nemue. 

Feodum  Adse  de  Port,  xlvm. 

Thomas  et  Robertus  in  Magene,  vs.  iiijd. 

Mathaeus  de  Gamages,  ij m. 

Johannes  de  Maordin,  viijs.  xd. 

Gillebert  Tallebot.1 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Willelmus  de  Breosa,  Walterus  de  Lascy,  Hugo  de  Say, 
Robertus  de  Ewias. 

Robertus  de  Champdos,  xij7.  xvijs.  i xd. 

OXONEFORDSCHIRA. 

Gerard  de  Campville,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Linguiure,  j  militem  de  honore  Glouces- 
triae. 

Henricus  de  Oyli  [lxvm.].2 

Radulfus  filius  Wigani,  quartam  [partem  militis]. 
Walkelin  Hareng,  j  feodum. 

Ernaldus  de  Maune,  dimidium  feodum  de  feodo 
Ricardi  de  Oyli. 

Ricardus  filius  Nigelli,  j  feodum. 

Guido  de  Laval,  j  feodum  et  dimidium,  per  Vice- 
comitem. 

Robertus  de  Harecurt,  viijs.3  xd.  ob.  in  hoc  comitatu. 
Osbertus  de  Heddendone,  xld. 

Hervi  Bagot,  j  feodum  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Rogerus  de  Cestria,  dimidium  feodum  in  hoc  co¬ 
mitatu. 


1  Underlined  for  deletion  in  T.  R.  (  3  viij  f[eoda']  in  MS. 

2  Blank  in  MS.,  supplied  from 

T.  R. 


A.D. 

1199-1200. 


A.D. 

1199-1200. 


124  LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

Sewale  filius  Fulcheri,  dimidium  feodum  in  hoc 
comitatu. 

Rogerus  de  Linguiure,  j  feodum. 

Walterus  de  Vernun,  j  feodum  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Gervasius  Paynel,  j  feodum  in  Chiselhamtone,  et 
dimidium  feodum  in  Berefort  Olaf,  et  Is.  de  feodo 
Radulfi  Musard. 

In  Rollendricht,  dimidium  feodum. 

In  Liwugstane,  quartam  [partem  militis]. 

Michael  Belet,  j  feodum  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Rogerus  de  Sancto  Johann e,  j  feodum. 

Robertas  Marmiun,  j  feodum. 

Radulfus  Foliqt,  j  feodum  et  dimidium. 

Ranulfus  de  Precariis,  dimidium  feodum. 

Robertus  de  Lingeure,  dimidium  feodum. 

Henricus  de  Ermenters,  dimidium  et  quartam  [partem]. 

Quieti  per  breyia. 

Warinus  filius  Geroldi,  Episcopus  Londoniensis,  Wil- 
lelmus  Marscallus,  Willelmus  de  Honez,1  Alexander  Arsic, 
Henricus  de  Nonant,  Robertus  Gresle,  Stephanus  de 
Hamptone. 

Honor  de  Walingeford,  ccm.  et  dimidiam. 

Dorsete.  Somersete. 

Abbatia  Glastonim,  quater  xxm. 

Philippus  de  Columbers,  xxm. 

N  icholaus  Meriet,  j  feodum. 

Idem,  j  feodum  et  dimidium  de  feodo  de  Monte 
Acuto. 

Willelmus  de  Millers,  iijm. 

Willelmus  de  Erlega,  j  feodum. 

Henricus  de  Cultura,  j  feodum. 

Abbas  Abbedesbery,  j  feodum. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


125 


Abbas  de  Cerne,  ij  feoda. 

Johannes  Pulein,  j  feodum  de  parvis  feodis. 

Abbatissa  Sancti  Edwardi,  vj  feoda  et  dimidium. 

Philippus  filius  Roberti,  j  feodum. 

Abbas  Sireburnise,  iijm.  vs.  iiijcZ. 

Episcopus  Bathoniensis,  xx  feoda. 

Abbas  M  uchelneise,  j  feodum. 

Fulco  de  Alno,  j  feodum. 

Willelmus  de  Monte  Acuto,  vj  feoda  et  quartam 
[partem]. 

Johannes  filius  Ricardi,  cxvjs.  viijcZ.  de  feodis 
More  toni  ge. 

Wandregisilus  de  Corcellis  et  Hasculfus  de  Solenni, 
j  feodum. 

Robertus  de  Novo  Burgo,  xv  feoda  de  parte  feodi 
Rogeri  Arundelliae  quod  ad  eum  pertinet. 

Radulfus  Lovel,  xj  feoda  et  dimidium,  et  vj  feoda 
et  dimidium  de  Monte  Acuto. 

Ricardus  de  Atrio,  iiij  feoda  et  tertiam  [partem]  de 
Monte  Acuto. 

Willelmus  de  Moyun,  quater  xxm.  et  ij[m]. 

Willelmus  de  Mora,  j  feodum. 

Willelmus  filius  Johannis  de  Harpetre,  viijs.  iiijcZ. 

Willelmus  Malet,  xxxj?.  vs.  xd. 

Willelmus  Martel,  vj  feoda  et  j  feodum  et  dimidium  de 
Monte  Acuto. 

Robertus  Belet,  j  feodum. 

Willelmus  de  Chahaignes,  iij  feoda. 

Willelmus  filius  Martini,  v  feoda  et  dimidium,  sicut 
Yicecomes  dicit. 

Robertus  Malherbe,  Thomas  filius  Briani,  Willelmus 
Aus[turcarius],  j  feodum. 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Alvredus  de  Lincolnia,  Garinus  filius  Geroldi,  Ricardus 
filius  Pagani,  Henricus  Tylli,  Johannes  tie  Monte  Acuto, 
Hubertus  de  Burgo. 


*  A  D. 

1199-1200. 


Fo.  73. 


126 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARTO. 


a.d.  Warwika.  Leycestresira. 

1199-1200. 

Prior  Coventnae,  xxm. 

Fulco  filius  Garini,  ijm. 

Emma  et  Alieia  de  Donmartin,  ijm. 

Archi episcopus  EboVacensis,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Willelmus  Grassus,  viijs.  xd.  et  ob. 

Robertus  de  Haroucurt,  ijm.  et  dimidiam. 

Osbertus  de  Clintone,  ijm. 

Abbas  Eveshamiae,  ijm.  vjs.  vjd 

Johannes  de  Lyrnesie,  iiijm.,  per  H[ugonem]  Bar- 
dulfum. 

Radulfus  Musard,  ijm.  in  hoc  comitatu.1 

Isti  annotantur  sine  numero  denariorum. 

Comes  David,  Radulfus  filius  Wigani,  Wido  de 
Diva,  Comites  de  Ferrariis  et  Albae  Mariae,  Rogerus  de 
Mortuo  Mari,  Gillebert  Basset,  Willelmus  de  Sancto 
Johanne,  Willelmus  de  Belmes,  Henricus  Falconarius, 
Robertus  Marmiun,  Willelmus  de  Albeygni. 

Hii  omnes  inveniuntur  in  rotulo  anni  vij  annotati 
inter  quietos  de  primo  scutagio  Regis  Ricardi  nec  Vice- 
comes  pro  eis  aliquid  reddidit,  nec  brevia  de  adquieta- 
tione  eorum  ostendit,  nec  Barones  certificavit  de  quot 
feodis  debeat  respondere  in  hiis  comitatibus. 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Comes  de  Warrenna,  Willelmus  filius  Hamonis, 
Willelmus  de  Longo  Campo,  Ricardus  Basset,  Hugo  de 
Ferrariis,  Comes  Cestriae,  Radulfus  de  Sumery,  Wil¬ 
lelmus  de  Monbray,  Henricus  de  Stoteville,  Willelmus 
de  Haroucurt,  Willelmus  de  Canti  lupo,  Doum  Bardulfus, 
Radulfus  filius  Stephani,  Willelmus  de  Ferrariis,  Garinus 
filius  Geroldi. 


1  Sic  in  ATS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


127 


Berkeschira. 

Willelmus  Achard,  ijm. 

Abbas  Abbendoniie,  xB. 

Halnad  de  Sifrewast,  ijm. 

Torold  de  Pesemere,  jm. 

Herber  tus  filius  Herberte,  i  i  ijm. 

Ricardus  de  Scropes,  iiijm. 

Willelmus  de  Wind  esores,  ijm. 

Ricardus  de  Oyli,  jm. 

Comes  de  Ferrariis,  viij l.  jm. 

Hugo  de  Say,  jm. 

Johannes  de  Hastinge,  iiijm. 

Rogerus  de  Mortuo  Mari,  cxjs.  ij d. 

Henricus  de  Pinkeygni,  iiij/.  jm. 

Hugo  de  Sotebroc,  ijm. 

Johannes  Belet,  vs.  et  iiijB. 

Johannes  Vis  de  Lou,  jm. 

Willelmus  de  Novo  Mercato,  ijm. 

Walterus  de  Lascy,  ijm. 

Walterus  de  Clifford,  ijm. 

Adam  de  Port,  de  Wallia,  ijm. 

Abbas  de  Hida,  ijm. 

Radulfus  Musard,  iiijm. 

Gerardus  de  Cam  ville,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Gillebert  Peche,  jm.  de  honore  de  Brunne. 

Radulfus  de  Sco ville,  jm. 

Robertus  de  Gant,  ijm. 

Fo.  73  d.  Johannes  de  Erleye,  ijm. 

Yicecomes,  jm.  de  honore  Willelmi  Longesp[eye] 
et  viijs.  xjd.  de  honore  Staffordioe ;  et  j?n.  de  honore 
Gloucestrise. 

Osbertus  Waspaile,  vs.  iiijd 
Episcopus  Wintoniensis,  ijm. 

Episcopus  Sarrisbiriensis,  jm. 

Comes  Willelmus  de  Yernun,  xxxm.  in  hoc  comitatu. 
Henricus  de  Oyli,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Comes  de  Warwika,  cvjs.  viij cZ.  in  hoc  comitatu. 


A.D. 

1199-1200. 


A.D. 

11 9:)- 1200. 


128  LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Hunfridus  de  Bohun,  Ricardus  de  SifFrewast,  Radul- 
fus  de  Somery,  Thomas  de  Sancto  Walerico,  Comes 
Albae  Mariae,  Hubertus  de  Burgo,  Willelmus  Marscallus, 
Comes  Leycestriae,  Willelmus  de  Cantilupo. 

Norfolc.  Suffolc. 

Comes  de  Clare,  ciiijxxix£.  iijs.  viij  c?. 

De  honore  de  Wermegay,  xixfX].1 

G[alfridus]  lilius  Petri,  xiiijm.  de  scutagio. 

Manasser  de  Danmartin,  ijm. 

Albericus  de  Danmartin,  ijm. ;  de  quibus  Comes  Bolo- 
niae  debet  respondere,  sicut  Vicecomes  dicit. 

Rogerus  de  Kentwelle,  xxm. 

Feoda  Huberti  de  Rya,  lxxm. 

Abbas  de  Hulmo,  ciiijs. 

Willelmus  de  Collecherche,  jm. 

Episcopus  Norwicensis,  iiijxxm.2 

Odo  de  Danmartin,  ijm. 

Honor  de  Eye,  ciiijxxjm. 

Willelmus  Escorcheveyle,  ijm. 

Johannes  de  Rocheford,  jm. 

Walterus  de  Yer,  ijm.,  cum  Willelmo  filio  Olyveri. 

Radulfus  filius  Ribaut,  jm. 

Phillipus  de  Donmartin,  ijm.  in  hiis  comitatibus. 

Robertus  filius  Symonis  de  Saliam,  jm. 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Episcopus  Elyensis,  Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  Robertus 
filius  Walteri,  Comes  Arundelliae,  Galfridus  de  Cestria, 
Comes  Leycestriae,  Abbas  de  Sancto  Edmundo,  Comes 
Rogerus. 


1  Blank  in  MS.,  supplied  from 
T.  R, 


2  Altered  from  tiijm. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


129 


Norhamptescira. 

Hugo  de  Lysures.1 
Walterus  de  Draytone,  j m. 

Ricardus  Foliot,  xxvijm.  et  dimidiam. 

Honor  Roberti  de  Chokes,  xxl. 

Johannes  de  Bidan,  ijm.  et  dimidiam. 

Eustachius  de  Watforde.1 
Robertus  Marinun,  j  m. 

Prior  Coventriae,  xs. 

Comes  Albericus,  xls. 

Bernard  de  Baillol,  ijm. 

Matilldis  Giffard,  jm. 

Robertus  de  Tresgoz,  iijm. 

Honor  de  Berkamstede,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Com[itissa]  Arundelliae,  xxs. 

Vicecomes,  iiij£.  xiiijs.  i xd.  de  feodis  Moretoniae,  quae 
Vieecomes  invenire  potuit  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Henricus  de  Pinkeygni,  xl.  iiijd.  in  hoc  comitatu. 
Henri cus  de  Oyli,  ijm. 

Gilbertus  de  Gant,  ijm.2  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Hugo  de  Lysures,  dimidiam  marcam  praeter  dominicum 
suum. 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Comes  de  Ferrariis,  R-obert  de  Curtenay,  Ricardus 
de  Sanford  de  feodo  Hugonis  de  Baiocis,  Abbatia  de 
Burgo,  Ricardus  Basset,  Willelmus  de  Homez,  Willelmus 
de  Mu[n]tbray,  Johannes  de  Monte  Acuto,  Comes  War- 
wikae  de  feodo  quod  Walterus  de  Caumville  tenet  de  eo. 

Gloucestreschira. 

Robertus  de  Berkelay,  xm. 

Patricius  de  Chaorcis,  xxvm.  de  xij  militibus  et  dimidio. 


1  habet  pacem  de  scutagio  suo  per 
finem  quam  fecit  \_de  x/s.]  quce  infra 
annotatur. — T.  R. 

63377. 


3  iiijl.  in  T.  R. 


I 


A.D. 

1199-1200. 


130 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.l). 

1199-1200. 


Fo.  74. 


Willelmus  de  Novo  Mercato,  xxxiijw.  xs.  iiijd. 

Otvel  de  Sudleye,  vj m. 

Abbas  Wicumbae,  iiijm. 

Waltems  de  Cormeilles,  xl s.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Fulco  filius  Garini,  jm.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  vijm,  in  hoc  comitatu. 
Almaricus  Dispensator,  'jm.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Walterus  Giffard,  ijm.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Willelmus  de  Kahaygnes,  xxs. 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Rogerus  de  Berkelay,  Henricus  de  Bohun,  Galfridus 
de  Esseleyge,  Radulfus  filius  Stephani,  Alard  Flan- 
drensis. 

Ibidem,  honor  de  Gloucestria. 

EbORACSCHIRA. 

Archiepiscopus  Eboracensis,  xlm. 

Willelmus  de  Mo[n]tbray,  clxxvjm.  et  dimidiam. 
Comitissa  Warwikae,  xxl. 

Walterus  de  Cancy,  xm. 

Willelmus  Paganellus,  xxxm. 

Guido  de  Laval,  xlm. 

Robertus  de  Turnh[am],  lxiijm. 

Willelmus  de  Stote ville,  xvjm. 

Robertus  de  Gant,  xxv;u. 

Agnes  de  Percy,  xxl. 

Willelmus  filius  Ranulfi,  iiij A  viijs.  xd. 

Vicecomes,  viij£.  xjs.  vijcZ.  de  scutagio  duarum  partium 
feodi  de  Wartre  quas  Willelmus  de  Albeinaco  et  Robertus 
de  Boulers  habent. 

Vicecomes,  xjm.  de  feodo  Jocelini  de  Lovann. 

Episcopus  Donholmensis,  xxm. 

Andreas  de  Filgeriis,  ij//t. 

Comitissa  Brittannise,  cciiij^m.  de  cxl  militibus  quos 
Thomas  de  Burgo  quondam  Senescallns  Comitissae  re- 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


131 


cognovit* 1  pertinere  ad  honorem  Comitis  Britanniae  in 
Anglia. 

Vicecomes,  xiij l.  dimidiam  marcam  de  scutagio  honoris 
de  Tykehulle. 

SURREYE. 

Nichil. 

Kent. 

Abbas  Sancti  Augustini,  xxxm. 

Robertus  de  Dovra,  xxviijm. 

Vicecomes,  xvijm.  de  honore  Peverelli  in  hoc  comitatu, 
quos  invenire  potuit. 

Cecilia  Comitissa  Herfordiae,  xxixm.  et  dimidiam  de 
xiiij  militibus  et  dimidio  de  parte  sua  de  honore  Walteri 
de  Meduana. 

Eadem,  xvm. 

Willelmus  de  Barmolinges,  cujus  feodum  fuit  Roberti 
de  Crevequer  quod  modo  est  in  manu  Regis,  ijm. 

Hugo  Bardulf,  ijm. 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Galft  idus  de  Say,  Robertus  de  Crevequor,  Simon  de 
Abrineis,  Adam  de  Port,  Comes  Leycestriae,  Comes 
Albemarlse,  Comes  de  Augo. 

Lancastria. 

Vicecomes  de  quater  xx,  xvji.  viijs.  xd.  de  scutagio 
honoris  Lancastriae. 


Salopeschira. 

Willelmus  filius  Alani,  lvm. 

Hugo  de  Bosco  et  Johannes  de  Kiliec,2  xm,  de  feodo 
Herberti  de  Chasteleun. 


1  recongnovit  in  MS.  |  2  Sic  in  MS. 

i  2 


A.D. 

1199-1200. 


132 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1199-1200. 


Fo.  74  d. 


Honor  Galfridi  de  Ver  xviijm.,  per  Willelmum  de 
Boterellis. 

Vicecomes,  xl.  de  feodo  de  Clone. 

Wido  Extraneus,  xxs. 

Johannes  Extraneus,  xls. 

Hugo  de  Pichford,  xls. 

Walterus  de  Witefeld,  ijm.  cujus  quarta  pars  feodi 
est  in  dominico  suo. 

Robertus  Corbet,  xm. 

Hugo  Pantulf,  vjm.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Vicecomes,  vjm.  viijfZ.  de  feodo  Gerardi  de  Tornay. 

Robertus  de  Boulers,  vjm.  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Ingeram  de  Pratellis,  jm.  de  feodo  Walteri  de  Don- 
stanville  in  hoc  comitatu.1 

Wigornia. 

Episcopus  Wigorniensis,  1  xvl.  xvs.  vjd.  ob.  ;  et  in  terris 
quas  Rex  tenet,  vjm. 

Abbas  de  Evesham,  ixm. 

Abbas  Persorse,  iiijm. 

Abbas  Westmonasterii,  xxxm. 

Et  in  terra  de  Stoke  quam  Rex  tenet  de  feodo 
Abbatiae,  ijm. 

Willelmus  de  Bello  Campo,  xiiijm. 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Walterus  de  Lascy,  Henricus  de  Longo  Campo,  Wil¬ 
lelmus  Marscallus,  Comes  de  Warwika,  Radulfus  de 
Somery,  Rogerus  de  Tony,  Hugo  de  Ferrariis,  Comes 
Albae  Mariae. 

Essexa.  Hertford. 

Thomas  de  Cam  ville,  ijm.  in  hoc  comitatu.2 

Willelmus  de  Reymes,  xvjm. 

1  De  feodo  begins  a  new  para¬ 
graph  in  the  MS. 


2  Sic  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO.  133 

Willelmus  de  Helyon,  xxm. 

Ricardus  de  Re  vines,  xxm. 

G[alfridus]  filius  Petri,  ciiijxxxviim. 

Abbas  de  Sancto  Albano,  xijm. 

Osbertus  de  Mara,  jm. 

Vicecomes,  iiij[m]  de  scutagio  Hernici  de  Yaloniis. 
Robertus  de  Hastinges,  vm.  in  hiis  comitatibus. 
Willelmus  de  Cio  ville,  ijm. 

Willelmus  de  Sancto  Claro,  iijm. 

Simon  Peche,  dimidiam  marcam. 

Rogerus  Tallebot,  vm. 

Willelmus  filius  Ranulfi,  xs. 

Eustachius  de  Baillol,  iiijm. 

Godefridus  de  Loveyn,  ijm.  de  feodo  Radulfi  de 
Cornhulle. 

Robertus  Monachus,  ijm. 

Ernaldus  de  Mondeville,  jm. 

Vicecomes,  jm.  de  feodo  Rogeri  de  Grama  ville  1  in  hiis 
comitatibus. 

Idem,  xm.  pro  Huberto  de  Anestie  in  hiis  comitati¬ 
bus. 

Idem,  de  iiijm.  de  Radulfo  de  Newelande. 

Idem,  jm.  de  Petro  de  Ripariis. 

Idem,  jm.  de  Johanne  de  Stebinges. 

Idem,  vjm.  de  haeredibus  Gileberti  Mauduit,  de  feodo 
Peverelli  de  Londonia,  sicut  Vicecomes  dicit. 

Idem,  xxxviijs.  de  Willelmo  Fauceillon. 

Idem,  xx.s.  de  Willelmo  de  Bose ville. 

Idem,  iiijm.  de  Cristeshalle. 

Idem,  vjm.  de  Gilleberto  de  Lascy. 

Idem,  ijm.  de  Arnaldo  de  Cortone. 

Idem,  iijm.  de  Briano  filio  Radulfi. 

Idem,  iiij  A  de  Eutropio  de  Merke. 

Idem,  iiij l.  de  Milone,  Jordano  et  Serlone  de  Elme- 
dene. 

Idem,  ijm.  de  Willelmo  de  Witsand. 


A.D. 

1199-1200. 


1  Rectius  Crumaville. 


134 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCAR10. 


Idem,  ijm.  de  Roberto  filio  Willelmi. 

Idem,  ijs.  viijd.  de  Hervi  de  Ulvestone. 

Idem,  ij m.  de  Radulfo  de  Ou. 

Idem,  dimidiam  marcam  de  Roberto  de  Fecham. 
Idem,  xxviijs.  de  Ricardo  filio  Ranulfi. 

Idem,  xliijs.  iiijc?.  de  Roberto  de  Lanburne. 
Idem,  ijm.  de  Radulfo  Pirot.1 
Idem,  ijm.  de  Eme  de  Cantilupo. 

Idem,  jm.  de  Mathaeo  Montel. 

Idem,  iiijs.  vd.  de  Galfrido  Maudut. 

‘Idem,  ijm.  de  Hugone  Wischard. 

Idem,  vs.  iiijd.  de  Hugone  de  Tylleby. 

Idem,  xls.  de  Willelmo  de  Bosseville. 


SCUTAGIA  INCIPIENTIA  ANNO  11°  REGIS 
JOHANNIS  ET  COMPLETA  IN  X1II°.2 

Kent. 

Abbas  Sancti  Augustini,  xv  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Moristone,  j  militem  in  Middeltone 
ut  xiij0  [rotulo]. 

Willelmus  de  Barmelinges,  j  militem. 

Philippus  de  Girunde,  iij  milites  de  honore  Feverelli 
de  Londonia. 

Comitissa  de  Clare,  ix  milites  ut  iiij0. 

Thomas  de  Camville,  iij  milites  de  honore  Bononiae. 
Rogerus  de  Cramaville,  iij  milites  de  honore  Feverelli. 
Herbertus  Deu  Enemi,  quartam  [partem]. 

Rogerus  filius  Jocelini.3 

Radulfus  de  Boclande,  quartam  [partem]  ut  v°. 

Simon  de  Abrincis,  xxj  milites  et  dimidium  ut  iiij0. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 

2  This  heading  was  originally 
written  in  chalk  for  rubrication, 

but  was  subsequently  copied  in  ink. 


3  Sic  in  MS. ;  Herebertus  Deu 
Er,enii  et  Rogerus  filius  Joscelini 
debent  x  solidos  ne  transfretarent. 
—  C.  R. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


135 


Per  brevia 
in  II0. 


Adaucta  ex 
IIII0  et  V°. 


Ex  XIII0. 


C[ecilia]  Comitissa  Herfordiee,  xiiij  milites  et  dimi¬ 
dium  ut  iiij0. 

Heredes  Willelmi  filii  Heltonis,  iij  milites  et  dimi¬ 
dium  ;  iiijto. 

Joslanus  de  Neville,  j  militem  in  Sornes  ut  v°. 

Thomas  filius  Bernardi,  j  militem  ut  ij°.  In  v°,  dimi¬ 
dium  [militem].  In  xiij0,  dimidium  [militem]. 


Quieti  per  brevia. 

Robertus  de  Crevequer,  Alexander  Arsic,  Hugo  Bar- 
dulf,  Robertus  de  Gadtone,  Warinus  filius  Geroldi, 
Foberd  de  Dovra,  Galfridus  de  Say. 


Robertus  de  Septem  Vallibus,  j  militem.  In  v°,  j  et 
vjtam  partem  de  Baronia  Willelmi  filii  Ilultonis  et  di¬ 
midium  [militem]  de  honore  Gloucestrise. 

Willelmus  de  Gisney,  j  militem. 

Henricus  Major  Lundonim,  ij  milites. 

Hugo  Oysel,  j  militem  in  Bochtone. 

Heres  Amfridi  de  Cancy,  j  militem. 


Robertus  de  Crevequer,  xiiij  milites. 

Reginaldus  de  Cornhulle,  j  militem  in  Kingesdone. 

Foberdus  de  Dovra,  xiiij  milites  de  veteri  et  j  de 
novo  [fefiamento]. 

Willelmus  de  Montchanesi,  xxix  milites  et  j  de  novo. 

Falco  de  Bereaute,  iij  [milites]  de  feodo  Maminot. 

Idem,  xv  [milites]  de  feodo  Ingeram  Patrie. 

Com[itissa]  de  Clare,  xxij  milites  et  dimidium  et 
terciam  [partem]  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Galfridus  de  Say,  xxvij  [milites]  de  veteri  et  j  de  novo. 

Willelmus  de  Ros,  vij  milites. 

Gillebertus  de  Clare,  vj  milites  et  dimidium  de 
maritagio  matris  suae. 


a.d. 

1201-12. 


136 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


Serjantise. 


JII°. 


1111°. 


Custos  Archiepiscopatus  reddit  compotum  de  iiijxx  et 
iiij  militibus  et  tribus,  j  militis  partibus. 


Robertus  filius  Willelmi  ut  iiij0,  Willelmus  de  Bec 
ut  v°. 

Eustacius  de  Burne  ut  ibidem,  Robertus  de  Hurst 1  ut 
ibidem. 


Bukingeham.  Bedefordsira. 

Heres  Radulfi  de  Hodeng,  iiij  milites  et  dimidium, 
et  xvjam  partem  de  medietate  feodi  Walteri  de  Winde- 

sores. 

Willemus  Marscallus,  xliij  milites  de  honore  Comitis 
Giffardi. 

Alanus  Basse!,  j  militem  in  Wicumbe  de  novo. 
Willelmus  de  Kenesworthe,  xxvijam  [partem]. 
Galfridus  de  Costentine,  dimidium  militem  in  Suttone 
de  feodo  Willelmi  de  Homez. 

Walterus  de  Windesores,  ix  milites  et  xij  partem  de 
medietate  honoris  Willelmi  de  Windsores.2 

Johannes  de  Bidon,  v  milites  et  quartam  et  xxxijam. 
In  viij0,  xj  milites  et  dimidium. 


Emme  de  Pery,3  j  militem. 

Sibilla  de  Reymes,4  ij  milites. 

Petrus  de  Newintone,  j  militem.  In  v°,  dimidium  in 
Hraytone  et  alias  iij  partes  [militis]. 

Johannes  de  Carum,  ij  milites. 

Henricus  de  Clintone,  iiij  milites. 

Herebertus  de  Bolebec,  j  militem  ut  viij0.2 
Johannes  de  Pabaham,  j  militem.  In  v°,  quartam 
[partem]. 


1  Hares  Roberti  de  Hurst.  —  3  Percy. — H. 

T.  R.  4  de  Fiesnes. — C.  R 

*  Interliueated  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


137 


Walterus  de  Heitwelle,  j  militem  de  honore  Pi- 
perelli.1 

Willelmus  Hose,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Sirin  tone,  ij  milites  ut  viij0.2 

Milo  de  Bello  Campo,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  quintam  partem  [militis]. 

Advocatus  de  Bethume,  dimidium  militem  et  xxam 
[partem].2 

Ricardus  de  Baseville,  quartam  [partem]. 

Nicholaus  filius  Bernardi,  quartam  [partem]. 

Galfridus  filius  Galfridi,  j  militem. 

Hamo  de  Gironde,  ij  milites.2 

Ricardus  de  Bello  Campo,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Sumery,  ix  milites  et  xx[am]  [partem] 
de  honore  Pinerelli  in  hiis  comitatibus.2 

L 

Hugo  de  Heversham,  j  militem  et  dimidum. 

Hugo  de  Kahanis,  ij  partes  [militis]. 

Alexander  filius  Ricardi,  j  militem. 

Ysabella  de  Clinton,  j  militem.  In  v°,  per  serjanteriam. 

Petrus  de  Sudrive,  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  de  Pinkeni,  xvij  milites  et  dimidium  et 
quartam  et  quintam  [partem].  In  viij0  xxj  [milites]  et 
dimidium. 

Robertus  Maudut,  iij  milites  et  dimidium.  In  xiij0, 
j  militem  et  iij  partes. 

Matilldis  de  Bussey,  j  militem. 

Albr[eda]  de  Jarpenville  finivit  pro  scutagio  et  ser- 
janteria. 

Elyas  de  Ginant,  quintam  partem  [militis]. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


Quieti  per  brevia. 

Willelmus  de  Kahains,  de  j  milite;  Robertus  de 
Ros,  de  iiij  militibus  ;  Johannes  de  Wahulle,  de  xxvij 
militibus ;  Willelmus  de  Homez,  de  j  milite  ;  Comes 


1  de  honore  Piper elli,  ft  later  in¬ 

sertion  in  MS. 


2  Interlineated  in  MS. 


138 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


120  Cestrise,  de  iiijor  [militibus]  et  dimidio;  Elyas  de  Bello 
Campo,  de  ij  militibus  et  dimidio ;  Badulfus  Musard, 
de  dimidio. 

Subsequentes  sine  determinatione,  scilicet :  Willelmus 
de  Bellomonte,  Ricardus  filius  Nigelli,  Thomas  de  Sancto 
Walerico,  Archiepiscopus  Cantuariensis,  Hugo  de  Bello 
Campo,  Comes  Leycestriae,  Episcopus  Norwicensis,  et 
plures  alii  quorum  nomina  annotantur  infra  xiij°. 


Bedefordsira. — Willelmus  de  Cautilupo  ha¬ 
buit  manerium  de  Eytone 
percartam  Regis  Johannis 
datam  xiiij0  die  Aprilis 
anno  vj°  per  servicium 
unius  feodi  militis.1 


Philippus  de  Girunde,  iij  milites  hic  et  in  Kent. 
Robertus  de  Gimeges,  dimidium  militem. 


Robertus  de  Ver  cum  una  filiarum  Walteri  de  Bolebec, 
v  milites. 

Herber  tus  de  Bolebec,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Nigelli,  j  militem  et  dimidium» 

Comes  de  Clara,  xiiij  milites  de  medietate  honoris 
Giffardi. 

Baldewinus  de  Betune,2  iij  milites  de  novo  [feffamento]. 

Simon  filius  Eliae,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Albeny,  xx.v  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Bellocampo,  xlv  milites,  v11111  et  xam 
[partem]. 

Elias  de  Bellocampo,  v  milites. 

Hugo  de  Bellocampo,  ij  milites  octava  parte  minus 
de  feodo  Osberti  Martel. 

Willelmus  filius  Hamonis,  xv  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Siryntone,  ij  milites. 


Fo.  75  d. 
V°. 


XIII". 


1  Inserted  in  a  later  hand  at  the 

bottom  of  the  folio. 


2  jBaldewinus  de  Belun  Conies  de 
Albemarla. — T.  R. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


139 


IIP. 


Simon  de  Wahuile,  xxvij  milites  per  G[alfridum] 
filium  Petri. 

Johannes  de  Builli,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Donecan  de  Lacelles,  iiij  milites  et  dimidium  et  xvjam 
[partem]  de  feodo  Walteri  de  Windesores. 

VVillelmus  de  Windesores,  ix  milites  et  viijam  [partem] 
de  medietate  honoris  Walteri  de  Windesores. 

Herbertus  de  Bolebec  ut  ij°,  Gillebertus  de  Mepertes- 
halle  ut  iiij0,  Walterus  Mantel  ut  iiij0,  Ysabella  de 
Clintone  ut  vt0,  Albreda  de  Gerpenville  ut  iiij0. 

Norfolke.  Suffolke. 

Comes  de  Clare,  cxvj  milites,  iiijam  et  viijam  [partem]. 
In  xiij0,  cxxxj  milites  et  duas  partes  iijam  [partem], 
iiijam,  viijam,  ixam,  xam,  et  ijbu8  tricesimis,  et  ix  et 
iiij am  de  feodo  Comitissse. 

Willelmus  de  Warrenne,  vij  milites  et  viijam  [partem] 
de  honore  de  Wermegay. 

Feodum  Willelmi  Blundi,  vij  milites. 

Johannes  Browere,  j  militem 

Rogerus  de  Kentewelle,  vij  milites.  In  iij°  et  v°, 
x  milites. 

Johannes  Marscallus,  xvij  milites  et  dimidium  de 
feodo  H uberti  de  Rya. 

Johannes  de  Rocheforue,  dimidium  militem. 

Honor  de  Eya,  iiijxxx  milites  et  dimidium. 

Albricus  de  Donmartin,  j  militem  de  honore  Bonnoniae. 

Walterus  de  Ver  et  Willelmus  Oliver,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Ribaldi,  dimidium  militem. 


Abbas  Sancti  Edmundi,  xl  milites.  In  xiij0,  lij  et 
dimidium  et  iiijam  [partem]. 

Thomas  de  Burgo,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Gillebertus  Peccatum,  xix  milites  iijam  [partem], 

viijam  e{,  xij3-111. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


140 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


Willelmus  Esturmy,  ij  milites  de  honore  Lancastrise. 

Godefridus  de  Cramaville,  j  militem  de  honore  Pe- 
verelli  de  Londonia. 

Thomas  Agnel,  j  militem  de  honore  Gloucestrise. 

Odo  de  Danmartin,  j  militem. 

Regnaldus  de  Leyham,  ij  milites  de  honore  Peverelli 
de  Londonia. 

Willelmus  de  Mora,  v  milites  de  eodem,  et  j  de  honore 
Cocr[emuae]. 

Willelmus  de  Valoniis,  dimidium  militem  de  honore 
Lancastrise. 

Adam  de  Ottele,  ij  milites  de  eodem. 

Abbas  de  Hulmo,  iij  milites  et  dimidium,  iiijam  [par¬ 
tem],  et  viijam,  et  xlam. 

Willelmus  de  Colecherche,  dimidium  militem. 

Episcopus  Norwicensis,  xl  milites.  In  xiij0,  xliij 
[milites]  dimidium  et  iiijam  [partem]. 

Johannes  de  Rocheforde,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  Escorchevilein,  j  militem. 


De  hiis  qui  non  habent  caittales  honores. 

Robertus  filius  Ernisii,  j  militem  de  honore  Glou- 
cestrise. 

Gillebertus  de  Norfolc,  dimidium  militem. 

Matildis  de  Albertiville,  dimidium  militem,  et  j  mi¬ 
litem  de  honore  Gloucestrie. 

Alexander  de  Ruyli,  iiijam  [partem]  de  eodem. 

Rogerus  La  Veile,  iiijam  [partem]. 

Robertus  filius  Simonis  de  Saham,  dimidium  militem. 

Stephanus  de  Bello  Campo,  j  militem  et  dimidium  de 
honore  Peverelli. 

Hervicus  de  Clerebec,  dimidium  militem  de  honore 
Peverelli  de  Londonia. 

Hamo  de  Clerebec,  dimidium  militem  de  eodem  honore. 

Robertus  de  Busson,  j  militem  de  eodem. 

Simon  de  Albrincis,  iiij  milites  et  dimidium  et  iiijam 
[partem] 


.LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SC  ACC  ARIO. 


141 


Rogerus  de  Hontingfelde,  j  militem  de  honore  Lan- 
castriae. 

Comes  Rogerus,  iiij  milites  de  eodem. 

Gillebertus  de  Hastinges,  j  militem  de  eodem. 

Tibaldus  Walteri,  dimidium  militem  de  eodem.  Idem 
in  v°. 

Robertus  Bertram,  j  militem  de  eodem. 

G[alfridus]  filius  Petri,  j  militem  de  eodem. 

Albricus  de  Ver,  dimidium  militem  de  eodem,  et  ij 
[milites]  ot  iiijam  [partem]  de  baronia  sua. 

Johannes  de  Rocheforde,  dimidium  militem. 

Milo  de  Somery,  j  militem  de  honore  Gloucestriae. 

Lucas  de  Cocfeld,  j  militem  de  eodem. 

Hemfridus  de  Criketot,  j  militem  de  honore  Bononiae. 

Ricardus  de  Monfichet,  v  milites  et  dimidium, 

Ricardus  de  Reymes,  dimidium  militem  et  iiij am 
[partem]. 

Comes  Albae  Mariae,  xxam  [partem].  In  xiij0,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Hastinges,  dimidium  militem. 


A.D. 

1201-1 


Quieti  per  brevia. 

Comes  Warennae,  Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  Galfridus  de 
Cestria,  Johannes  Marscallus,  Comes  Arundel,  Comes 
David  [de]  j  milite,  Comes  Rogerus,  Comes  de  Pertico 
[de]  xxiiij  militibus  et  dimidio,  Robertus  de  Toteshale, 
Willelmus  de  Montchenesy,  Willelmus  Tresgoz,  Hugo 
Bardulf,  Radulfus  de  Roffa,  Philippus  de  Colum¬ 
bariis,  Warinus  filius  Geroldi,  Willelmus  de  Reymes, 
Comes  Cestriae,  Robertus  Gresle,  Comes  Hereford iae, 
Thomas  de  Sancto  Walerico,  Thomas  de  Muletone  [de] 
dimidio  milite,  Emma  de  Kantilu,  Episcopus  Wintoni- 
ensis,  Willelmus  de  Heliun,  Comes  Leycestriae,  Brianus 
filius  Radulfi  [de]  v  militibus,  Eustachius  de  Vescy  [de] 
dimidio  milite,  Willelmus  filius  Alani,  Alexander  filius 
Ricardi. 


A.D.  14-2  LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

1201-12. 

IIII0.  Willelmus  Lovel,  j  militem.  Fo.  76. 

Rogerus  de  Sancto  "Dioni sio,  dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  Taleinasche,  j  militem.  In  v°  per  serjanteriam. 

Adam  Moveisin,  dimidium  militem  et  iiijam  [partem]. 

In  v°,  dimidium  [militem]. 

Willelmus  de  Heliun,  j  militem. 


v°.  Robertus  filius  Simonis,  dimidium  militem.  Idem,  ij. 
Guido  Botetorte,  ij  milites  et  dimidium  de  tenemento 
quod  tenet  de  H[enrico]  de  Gorn[hulle]. 

Willelmus  filius  Oliveri,  dimidium  militem. 

Ranulfus  filius  Roberti,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  dimidium  militem. 


Xiii".  Comes  Clarie  habet  quietantiam  de  cxxxj  militibus  et 
duabus  partibus  iija  [parte],  iiij a,  viija,  ixa,  xa,  duabus 
tricesimis  [partibus],  et  de  ix  militibus  et  iiija  [parte]  de 
feodo  Comitissse  de  veteri,  et  de  vij  feodis  et  dimidio  de 
novo  [feffamento]. 

Hubertus  de  Burgo,  xiiij  milites  et  iiij am  de  honore  de 
Wermegai  de  veteri,  et  iiijam  de  novo  [feffamento].  Et 
ij  milites  de  feodo  Roberti  filii  Rogeri  de  Mor,  et 
Bliburg[i]  hereditatis  uxoris  suae,  haeredis  Wdlelmi  de 
Norwico. 

Margareta  de  Kesney,  j  militem  in  Bleburgo. 

Willelmus  de  Warenna,  j  militem  in  Mendlesham  quod 
fuit  Willelmi  de  Danmartin. 

Comes  de  Arundel,  lxxvj  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Kahaignes,  j  militem. 

Comes  Rogerus,  cxxv  milites  de  veteri  et  iiijam 
[partem],  et  xxvij  [milites]  et  dimidium  de  novo  [feffa¬ 
mento]. 

Rogerus  de  Creissi  cum  una  filiarum  de  11  uberti  de 
Rya,  xvij  et  dimidium. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


143 


A.l). 
1201-12. 

Radulfus  de  Burgo  ut  iij°,  Johannes  Corn  de  Bof  ut  Serjantiae. 
iiij0,  Bogerus  de  Bedenhalle  ut  v°,  Beugy  de  Avilers  ut 
ibidem,  Hugo  Talemasche  ut  ibidem,  Laurentia  Picot  ut 
ibidem,  Hugo  Burgoynun  ut  ibidem. 


Berksira. 

Galfridus  de  [Huse],1  j  militem  de  honore  de  Kyntone. 
Radulfus  de  Lanvaley,  j  militem.  In  v°,  Ricardus 
Walensis. 

Ricardus  de  Sifrewast,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Meynfelin,  iijam  partem. 

Johannes  Belet,  vam  [partem]. 

H  alnod  de  Sifrewast,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Achard,  j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Stotebroc,  j  militem. 

Abbas  de  Abendonia,  xxx  milites. 

Toroldus  de  Pesemere,  dimidium  militem. 

Alexander  filius  Ricardi,  dimidium  militem. 

Walterus  de  Lascy,  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Clifford,  j  militem. 

Abbas  de  Hida,  j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Oyli,  iiijam  [partem]. 

Gerard  de  Chain  ville,  iiijam  [partem]. 

Radulfus  de  Belmes,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Gant,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Oyli,  dimidium  militem. 

Comes  de  Ferrariis,  v  milites  et  dimidium  et  iiijam 
[partem]. 

Willelmus  de  Homez,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Monachus,  iij  partes  [militis]. 

Willelmus  de  Breosa,  j  militem  iijam  [partem]  et  xiijara. 
Comes  de  Insula,  xv  milites  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Hubertus  de  Burgo,  j  militem  de  feodo  de  Romara. 
Episcopus  Batlioniensis,  ij  milites  de  feodo  Glastonioek 


1  Illegible  in  MS, 


144 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SOACC'ARIO. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


Till0. 


V». 


Willelmus  de  Boclande,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Comes  de  Vermin,  xv  milites  in  hoc  comi¬ 
tatu. 

Quieti  per  brevia. 

Comes  de  Warwika  de  viij  feodis,  Episcopus  Win- 
toniensis,  Rogerus  de  Mortuo  Mari,  Johannes  de 
Hastinges,  Willelmus  Martel,  [de]  j  milite,  Comes 
Leycestrise,  Henricus  de  Pinkeny,  Hugo  de  Ferrariis, 
Willelmus  de  Windesores,  Ricardus  de  Scropis,  Hen¬ 
ricus  de  Boun,  Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  Robertus 
de  Biskelev,  Episcopus  Londoniensis,  Johannes  de 
Erleye  de  j  milite  ut  xiij°,  Willelmus  de  Novo 
Mercato  de  xvij  militibus  et  dimidio  ut  v°,  Comes 
Cestrise,  Thomas  de  Sancto  Walerico,  Radulfus  Musard, 
Willelmus  Marscallus,  Hugo  de  Sanforde. 


Radulfus  de  Porta,  vam  [partem]. 


Willelmus  de  Bochamptone  et  Hopefort,  j  militem. 
Gillebertus  Peccatum,  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  de  Rompayne  et  Hugo  filius  Hugonis,  ij 
milites. 

Osbertus  Waspaile.1 
Elias  Giffard,  j  militem. 

Honor  de  Walingeforde  in  rotulo  ii°. 

Tuistanus  Basset,  vj  milites. 

Alanus  filius  Rolandi,  dimidium  militem. 

Galfridus  filius  Agnetae,  dimidium  militem. 

Walterus  de  Penna,  v  partem. 


1  reddit  compotum  de  v  s.  et  iiijd.  de  scutagio  honoris  de  Wnrenge- 
forde. — T.  R. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO.  145 

Ricardus  Moryn,  j  militem. 

Alarms  de  Valeines,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Henrici,  dimidium  militem. 

Thomas  filius  Ricardi,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Archis,  iij  milites. 

Hamo  Carbonei,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Hareped[en],  iij  milites. 

Milo  de  Merlay,  iiijam  partem  militis. 

Robertus  Foliot,  ij  milites. 

Reginaldus  Angevin,  dimidium  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Chausy,  ij  milites. 

Simon  de  Stantone,  j  militem. 

Fulco  filius  Ricardi,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Galfridi,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Wodmundesle,  iiijam  partem  militis. 
Petrus  de  Bixle,  dimidium  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Mara,  iij  partes  militis. 

Radulfus  Dariel,  dimidium  militem. 

Walterus  Croke,  iiij  milites. 

Roeland  Huscarde,  iij  milites. 

Urveus  Malet,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Rogerus  de  Stafforde,j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Anvers,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Mara,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Witefelde,  iiijam  partem. 

Walterus  Piparde,  vj  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Rannulfi,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Paynel,  iiij  milites  in  Watlintone  unde 
unus  super  dominicum. 

Alardus  filius  Willelmi,  vtam.  In  v°,  serjanteria. 
Johannes  filius  Hugonis,  j  militem. 

Walterus  Foliot,  ij  milites  et  iiijtam. 

Radulfus  Foliot,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Abbas  de  Bruera,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  le  Naper,  j  militem,  sed  modo  quietus  per 
n  appariam. 

63377.  K 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


Fo.  76  d. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


yus 


XIII”8. 


146  LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Quiet r  per  brevia. 

Hugo  de  Malo  Alneto,  de  iij  militibus. 

Radulfus  filius  Almarici,  de  iij  militibus. 
Willelmus  Noel,  de  dimidio  milite. 

Samson  de  la  Pomerey,  de  iiij  militibus. 
Gillebertus  Basset,  de  vij  militibus. 

Gillebertus  filius  Reinfridi,  de  j  milite. 

Warinus  filius  Geroldi,  de  ij  militibus  et  dimidio. 
Alanus  Basset,  de  v  militibus. 

Thomas  Basset,  de  v  militibus. 


Simon  Barre,  j  militem. 

Henricus  Bernard[i],  vam. 

Robertus  Corbet,  j  militem  in  Dalleye. 

Willelmus  de  Druvalle,  vam  partem. 

Robertus  de  Torinny,  dimidium  militem. 
Willelmus  de  Kingestone,  vam  partem  de  soccagio. 
Henricus  de  Taydene,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  Basset,  j  militem  et  iiijam  [partem]. 
Andreas  de  Bellocampo,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Harecurt,  j  militem. 


Almaricus  filius  Roberti,  iiij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Cestretone,  iij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Druvalle,  ij  milites. 

Johannes  de  Chesneto  et  Aliz  de  Bella  Aqua,  ij 
milites. 

Robertus  de  Valoniis,  ij  milites. 

Milo  Neirenuit,  ij  milites. 

Simon  Barre,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Stanforde,  j  militem. 

Summa.1 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCAOCARIO. 


147 


SUDSEXA. 

Hawis  de  la  Gwirche,  ij  milites  de  feodo  de  Mapham. 
Robertus  Bernard,  iijam  partem. 

Capellaria  de  Boseham,  vij  milites  et  dimidium. 


v"s-  Episcopus  Cicestrensis,  iiij  milites. 
Alardus  Flandrensis,  j  militem. 


xm,,s.  Robertus  Peverel  et  Robertus  Bernard,  j  militem. 

Comes  de  Arundel,  iiijxxiiij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Gilebertus  de  Aquila,  xxxv  milites. 

Comes  Warennas,  lx  milites. 

Feodum  de  Has  tinges,  lij  milites  praeter  iiij  qui  sunt 
de  Episcopatu  Cicestrensi,  et  iiij  qui  sunt  de  Abbatia 
Pontis  Roberti,  et  praeter  j  qui  non  invenitur. 

Honor  de  Angra,  xx  milites  et  dimidium  et  xxam 
partem  extra  Cornubiam.  Et  ix  milites  et  xijam  partem 
in  Cornubia. 


Hus-  Henricus  de  Percy,  xxij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Willelmus  de  Belmeis,  vj  milites. 


Vu*.  Willelmus  de  Cahaignes,  iij  milites  de  honore  Mor- 
toniae. 

Normonnus  de  Normon ville. 

Alanus  de  Wedmedinges  ut  iiij  °. 

Henricus  de  Paleuerne  ut  ibidem. 

Henricus  Porcarius  1  ut  v°. 


K  2 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


148 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  SURREIA. 

1201-12. 

IIH"\  Rolandus  de  Acstede,  j  militem.  In  v°,  dimidium. 
Gillebertus  de  Melkesham,  j  militem. 

Thomas  de  Hercmere,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Bella  Yalle,  dimidium  militem. 

Elias  de  Adintone,  dimidium  militem  et  iiijam  et 
xxvjtam  [partem]. 

Fo.  77.  Cecilia  de  Oomptone,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Hubertus  de  Burgo,  iiijam  [partem]. 

Simon  de  Pateshulle,  iiijam  [partem]. 

Rogerus  de  Creft,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Fulgeriis,  iiijam  [partem]. 

Serjantia.  Samson  de  Tykeseia  ut  iiij0  [rotulo]. 

SUHANTESIRA. 

Episcopus  Wintoniensis,  lx  milites.  In  xiij0,  lxxiiij  et 
dimidium. 

Abbas  de  Hida,  xx  milites. 

Robertus  de  Ponte  Arche,  j  militem. 

Adam  de  Port,  lv  milites.  In  xiij0,  lvij  [milites]. 
Willelmus  filius  Aldelini,  j  militem  et  iiij am  [partem]. 
Hubertus  de  Burgo,  iiij  milites  et  liijam  [partem].1 
Michael  de  Lovers,  dimidium  militem. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  j  militem  et  iiijam  [partem]. 
Willelmus  de  Chaugrave,vjam  partem  et  xiijam  [partem]. 
Alanus  de  Chilkeleye,  xiijam  et  liijam  [partem].1 
Willelmus  de  Novo  Mercato,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Ewias,  ij  milites  de  honore  Thomae  de 
Sancto  Walerico. 

Robertus  de  Meysi,  ij  milites  de  eodem. 

Willelmus  de  Solariis,  j  militem  de  eodem. 

Rogerus  de  Abernun,  j  militem  de  eodem. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


149 


IIIIUS, 


XIII“*. 


[iScjyjort- 
tite ? 


Nota  quod 
in  hoc  111° 
Rotulo 
finem  fecit 
Episcopus 
Coven- 
treusis,  per 
xxv  libras 
ne  transfre¬ 
tare^]  et 
pro  habendo 
seutagio 


Henricns  Hose,  j  militem. 
Rogerus  filius  Henrici,  j  militem. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


Willelmus  de  Wo rblintone,  j  militem  et  iiijam  [partem]. 

Rogerus  de  Sacy,  j  militem.  In  [xx]xiij° 1  Rotulo  Regis 
Henrici. 

Elias  Croe,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Cosyn,  Thomas  Peverel,  Oliverus  de  Pont- 
chardun,  qui  tenent  feodum  quod  fuit  Ricardi  de  Solers, 
j  militem. 

Willelmus  Spileman  ut  xiij0,  Andreas  Moberd  ut 
ibidem,  Hugo  de  Chekehulle,  Galfridus  de  Pourtone, 
Ricardus  de  Cardonville,  Willelmus  de  Arundellia,  Willel¬ 
mus  de  Cosham,  Bryanus  de  Insula,  Willelmus  Burhunte, 
Reginaldus  de  Bitleshorne,  Henricus  de  Wenstede,  Gile- 
bertus  de  Achangre. 

Warewica.  Leycestria. 

Prior  Coventriae,  x  milites. 

Fulco  filius  Warini,  j  militem. 

Emma  et  Alicia  de  Donmart[in],  j  militem. 

Arcluepiscopus  Eboracensis,  iiijam  [partem]. 

Willelmus  Grassus,  iiijam  [partem]  et  xiiijam. 

Robertas  de  Harewecurt,  j  militem  et  iiijam  [partem]. 
In  iiij0,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Osbertus  de  Clyntone,  j  militem. 

Abbas  de  Evesham,  j  militem  et  iiijam  [partem]. 

Johannes  de  Lymisie,  ij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Secheville,  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  Falconarius,  j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Chaucumbe,  j  militem. 

Gwido  de  Croum,  iiijam  [partem]. 

Comes  Warwikre,  cij  milites  et  iijam  [partem]. 

1  The  figures  in  brackets  have  j  2  Partly  bound  in. 

been  interlineated  in  the  MS. 


i 


150 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

_  1201-12. 

de  xxv 
militibus, 
videlicet  de 
xv  de  Epis¬ 
copatu, 
et  de  x  de 
Episcopatu 
Coven- 
trensi. 


Y. 


XIII. 


Comes  Albae  Mariae,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Roger us  de  Mortuo  Mari,  j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Ferrariis,  dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  Bardulfus,  ij  milites  et  viijam  et  xlmam  partem 
ut  in  viij0.1 

Hugo  de  Insula,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Breosa,  ij  milites. 

Baldewinus  Wac,  j  militem. 


Comes  David,  iiij or  milites. 
Matildis  de  Cauz,  ij  milites. 


Robertus  Marmyon,  xj  milites,  iiijam  [partem]  et  vam. 

Willelmus  de  Albeny,  xxxiij  milites  de  veteri  [feffa- 
mento]. 

Feodum  Rogeri  de  Torlawestone  quod  tenuit  de 
Radulfo  filio  Wigani  unde  solet  r[eddere]  in  Oxoneford- 
scira,  iiijam  [partem]. 

Medietas  honoris  Leycestriae,  lxxvij  milites  et  vam 
[partem],  per  Yicecomitem. 

Simon  Comes  Wintoniae  de  alia  medietate  habet 
quietantiam. 

Robertus  filius  David  per  serjanteriam. 

Cantebrige.  Huntindonesira. 

Nigellus  de  Lovetot,  xv  milites  ut  iiij0. 

Robertus  de  Gymeges,j  militem  ut  ibidem. 

Willelmus  de  Say,  iiij  milites. 

Albreda  Trussebot,  j  militem  et  dimidium,  vjam  et 
xiijain  In  iyoj  j  ef,  dimidium  et  iiijam  [partem]. 

Comes  Britanniae,  xvj  milites.  In  v°,  xxxviij  milites 
et  dimidium. 


1  et  viij0  is  a  later  insertion. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


151 


m°. 


Vus. 


Serj antice. 


G[alfridus]  filius  Petri,  j  militem  et  iiijam  [partem],  joohJ» 
In  xiij0,  ij  milites  et  dimidium  et  xxam  [partem]. 


Willelmus  de  Scalariis,  xv  milites. 

Robertus  Pycot,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Mere,  j  militem. 

Simon  Rufius,  dimidium  militem. 

Acelina  de  Abingyntone,1  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Geddinge,  iiijam  [partem]. 

Leonia  de  Stoteville,  j  militem  et  dimidium  et  iiijam 
[partem]. 

Episcopus  Elyensis,  xl  milites.  In  xiij0,  lvj  et  iiijam, 
per  Comitem  Sarrisbirise  custodem  Episcopatus. 


Abbas  Rameseise,  iiij  milites. 

Acelina  de  Waterville  et  Matilda  soror  ejus,  ix  milites 
et  dimidium. 

Ricardus  filius  Warini,  iiijam  [partem]. 

Johannes  de  Mere  vel  de  Stibitone,  iiijam  [partem]. 
Ricardus  Engayne,  dimidium  militem. 

Gillebertus  Peche,  xvij  milites  et  xijam  partem. 

Hugo  de  Scalariis,  xv  milites  et  dimidium. 


Pogerus  Malartus,  per  serjanteriam  ut  iiij°. 

Willelmus  Monachus  ut  v°. 

WlLTESIRA. 

Galfridus  Camerarius,  j  militem.  Eo.  77  d. 

Elias  Giffard,  ix  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Rokella,  j  militem. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


152 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D 

1201-12. 


1111°. 


XIIIU*. 


Abbatissa  Wiltonise,  v  milites. 

Abbas  Malmesburiae,  iij  milites. 
G[alfridus]  filius  Petri,  j  militem. 
Simon  Wac,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Brower,  dimidium  militem. 
Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  j  militem. 


Episcopus  Sarrisbiriensis,  xl  milites  et  dimidium. 
Eustachius  de  Baylol,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Giffard,  j  militem. 

Fulco  de  Alneto,  j  militem. 

Gundreda  de  Warenna,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Turville,  dimidium  militem. 

Walterus  de  Grimestede,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Mondeville,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Alani,  j  militem. 

Eva  de  Tracy,  j  militem. 

Paganus  de  Chaurces,  j  militem. 

Petrus  filius  Herberti,  j  militem. 

Comes  Sarrisbiriae,  lvj  milites  iij  quintas  [partes]. 
Petrus  de  Maul[e]/  ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Dyneswelle,  dimidium  militem. 

Thomas  de  Sancto  Vigore,  dimidium  militem  in 
Stokes. 

Thomas  filius  Henrici,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Breosa,  iiij  milites  et  dimidium  de  feodo 
Adae  de  Port  in  hoc  comitatu. 


Henricus  de  Boun,  xxx  milites  et  dimidium  de  veteri, 
et  ix  milites  et  dimidium  de  novo  [feffamento] ;  unde 
dicit  quod  nichil  debet  Regi  nisi  servitium  corporis  sui. 

Walterus  Waleran,  xxx  milites  ;  de  quibus  Johannes  de 
Monemue  habet  iijam  partem  cum  una  filiarum ;  Albreda 


Rectius  de  Mara. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCAR10. 


153 


1111°. 


mi”. 


IUI0. 


de  Boterellis,  alia  filia,  aliam  tertiam  ;  et  Willelmus  de 
Novilla,  iijam  ;  et  nota  ut  infra. 

De  istis  xxx  militibus  v  debentur  ad  custodiam  Castri  Sarrisbiria; 
unde  in  Rotulo  II0  Regis  Ricardi  in  Wiltescira  finivit  W[alterus] 
Waleran  pro  xx  marcis  ut  sil  quietus  de  v  militibus  nisi  ad  custo¬ 
diam  castri  tantum.  Nota  quod  non  facit  custodiam  quolibet  anno.1 

Garnerus  de  Lisuris,  j  militem. 

Petrus  de  Scuidymor,  v  milites  qui  fuerunt  Roberti  de 
Ewias. 

Robertus  de  Mandeville,  Robertus  Maudut,  Willelmus 
Oomyn,  j  militem  de  feodo  quod  fuit  Gerardi  Giffardi. 

Ricardus  Rufius,  Walterus  Esturmy,  Matheus  Turpyn, 
Elias  Croc,  Willelmus  de  Anesye,  ut  v°. 


Gloucestresira. 

Willelmus  de  Novo  Mercato,  xv  milites  et  dimidium, 
iiijtau^  et  viijam  [partem].  In  xiij0,  xvj  milites  et  dimi¬ 
dium,  et  ij  tercias  et  ij  quintas  [partes]. 

Abbas  Wincliecumbge,  j  militem.  In  v°,  ij  [milites]. 


Honor  Gloucestrde,  per  Robertum  la  Were.2 

Magister  Ernisius,  viijam  [partem]. 

Henricus  Hose,  xij3111  [partem]. 


Magister  Ernisius,  viijam  [partem]. 

Henricus  Hose,  xijam  [partem]. 

Thomas  de  Baiocis,  iiij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Stokes,  j  militem  per  serjanteriam. 
Gilebertus  filius  Roberti,  vj  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Diclesdone,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

1  Marginal  note  in  MS. 

5  This  heading  is  not  rubricated 
in  the  MS.,  although  there  is  a 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


marginal  direction  for  this  pur¬ 
pose.  The  entries  which  follow  are 
in  double  column. 


154 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


Rogerus  Waspail,  v  milites. 

Herbertus  de  Sancto  Quin  tino,  x  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Erturi,  ij  milites. 

Michael  de  Portinote,  dimidium  [militem]. 

Oliverus  de  Tracy,  j  militem. 

Thomas  de  Berengerville,  dimidium  [militem]. 
Willelmus  filius  Gregorii,  dimidium  [militem]. 
Radulfus  de  Bosco,  dimidium  [militem]. 

Rogerus  de  Meysi,  viij  milites. 

Ri cardus  de  Greynville,  iij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Rogerus  Corbet,  j  militem. 

Johannes  de  Sancto  Laudo,  iiijtam  [partem]. 

Willelmus  de  Wodeiate,  j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Champhernul,  j  militem. 

Sibilla  Crok,  dimidium  [militem]. 

Adam  filius  Nigelli,  vtam  [partem]. 

Radulfus  Folmusson,  dimidium  [militem]. 

Willelmus  de  Cahaignes,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Bakeberi  et  Johannes  de  Castello, 
dimidium  [militem]. 

Robertus  de  Lucy,  ij  milites. 

Abbas  de  Keynesham,  viijam  [partem]. 

Magister  Benedictus,  iiijam  [partem]. 

Willelmus  filius  Elise,  iiijtam  [partem]. 

Robertus  de  Setvaus,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Swanetone,  dimidium  [militem]. 

Simon  de  Scardestede,  iijam  [partem]. 

Ricardus  Rabel,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Tichesia,  ij  milites  et  iiijam  [partem]. 
Matildis  de  Dive,  j  militem. 

Eustachius  de  Greinville,  iij  partes  [militis]. 

Acelina  de  Waterville,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Sancto  Remigio,  xam  partem  [militis]. 
Martinus  de  Cramewelle,1  dimidium.  In  v°,  j  militem. 
Simon  Maufe,  dimidium  [militem]. 

Johannes  le  Sor,  xiiij  milites. 


1  Rectius  Camerwelle. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


155 


Henricus  de  Unfranville,  v  milites. 

Mabilla  de  Selers,  xvj  milites. 

Ricardus  Oriescul,  vij  milites. 

Johannes  Eschelling,  v  milites. 

Alanus  de  Hertilande,  j  militem. 

Philippus  Vit  Deners,  ij  milites  et  iiijam  [partem]. 
Thomas  Ainguel,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Grimbald,  dimidium,  vjam  et  xijam  [partem]. 
Willelmus  de  Graftham,  dimidium  [militem]. 

Rogerus  de  Furnellis,  j  militem. 

Nicholaus  Meriet,  j  militem,  et  idem  j  de  honore 
Mortoniae. 

Willelmus  de  Londonia,  iij  milites. 

Baldewinus  Wac,  ij  milites. 

Hamo  de  Waloniis,  v  milites. 

Galfridus  de  Costantin,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Hautville,  ij  milites. 

Thomas  de  Holeford,  dimidium  [militem]. 

Almarycus  Dispensarius,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Otonis,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Gereberti,  xam  [partem]. 

Willelmus  de  Hastinges,  ij  milites. 

Johannes  de  Toryntone,  vij  milites. 

Willelmus  Broer,  x  milites. 

Robertus  de  Goyz,  v  milites ;  sed  in  v°  dicitur  quod 
facit  servitium  suum  in  Normannia. 

•  Nicholaus  Poinz,  de  vij  militibus. 

GifFard  Witeing.  de  vij  [militibus]. 

Philippus  de  Aubeny,  de  dimidio  [milite]. 

Patricia  de  Bellocampo  et  Eufemia  Tallebot,  de  ij 
[militibus]. 

Gilebertus  de  Yilers,  de  j  milite. 

Willelmus  et  Thomas  fili[iorum]  Johannis,  de  xv  mili¬ 
tibus. 

Terricus  Tyeis,  de  j  milite. 

1  This  is  really  a  marginal  direction  for  rubrication  which  has  been 
omitted. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


Per 

Brevia.1 


156 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACOARIO. 


A  D-  Brianus  Tollard,  de  iij  [militibus]. 

Henricus  de  Pontaudemer,  de  j  [milite]. 

Ricardus  filius  Hamonis,  de  iij  [militibus]  et  tercia 
[parte]. 

Galfridus  de  Bacellis,  de  x  [militibus]  et  tribus  partibus. 
Milo  de  Somery,  de  iij  [militibus]  et  dimidio. 

Walterus  de  Traylli,  de  iiij  [militibus]. 

Willelmus  de  Faleis,  de  iij  partibus. 

Garinus  filius  Geroldi,  de  dimidio. 

Robertus  filius  Ernisii,  de  ij  militibus. 

Thomas  de  Sanford,  de  j  milite  et  dimidio. 

Hugo  de  Gonde ville,  de  j  milite  ;  sed  in  v°  dicitur 
quod  debet,  ij  milites. 

Summa  ccxxij  milites  ij  quintae  et  una  tertia  [pars]. 

Fo.  78.  Hii  praedicti  sunt  de  honore  praedicto  praeter  xlvij 
[milites]  et  iiijam  [partem],  qui  sunt  in  Glamorgan ;  et 
praeter  xx  [milites],  quos  Comes  Ebroycensis  habet ;  et 
praeter  xv  [milites],  quos  Comes  de  Clare  habet. 

Summa  omnium  ccciiijor  [milites]  et  quarta  [pars]. 

Et  praeter  hos  in  v°  : — 

Milo  de  Antesye,  dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  de  Neville,  v  milites. 

Lucas  filius  Johannis,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Breosa,  vij  milites  de  eodem  honore. 


n°-  Brian  Tollard,  j  militem  de  Rege. 

Radulfus  de  Sule,  iij  milites. 

Rogcrus  de  Burkeley,  vij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Johannes  de  Hastinges,  iiij  milites. 

Almaricus  Despensarius,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Scropis,  iij  milites. 

Henricus  de  Teydene,  iij  milites,  et  j  de  honore 
Wallingford  iae. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


157 


Robertus  de  Torinny,  j  [militem]  de  eodem  honore. 
Galfridus  de  Chausy,  j  [militem]  et  dimidium  de  eodem 
honore. 


Robertus  de  Ameneville,  j  militem. 

Haeres  Roberti  filii  Herding,  ij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 
Ernaldus  de  Bosco,  x  milites. 

Abbas  Winchecumbae,  ij  milites  ut  viij0. 

Radulfus  filius  Stephani,  j  militem  in  hoc  comitatu 
ut  ibidem.1 

Walterus  de  Essel[ing],  dimidium  militem  ut  ibidem.1 
Robertus  Monachus,  j  militem. 

Willel  mus  de  Gamages,  j  militem. 


XIIIus.  Willelmus  Marescallus,  lxv  milites  et  ij  de  Castro 
Godrici. 

Comes  Herfordiae,  xvij  milites;  de  quibus  P[etrus] 
filius  Herberti  habet  terciam  [partem]. 

Alardus  Flandrensis,  j  [militem]. 

Honor  Pagani  de  Mondublel,  xij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Osbertus  de  Grava,  per  serjanteriam. 

Almaricus  Dispensator  [j  militem].2 

Salopessyra. 

Willelmus  filius  Alani,  xlv  milites  ;  in  quinto,  x  ;  in 
viij0,  xxvij  et  dimidium. 

Hugo  de  Bosco  et  Johannes  de  Kilpec,  ij  milites  ;  in 
v°  j,  per  manum  Yicecomitis  Herefordise. 

Ricardus  de  Wabinburia,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  Corbet,  ij  milites ;  in  vto,  v  in  hoc 
comitatu. 


IHU\  Johannes  le  Strange,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Hugo  de  Picheford,  j  militem  in  Langeforde. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


1  Interlineated  in  MS. 

2  Sic  in  MS.  The  last  entries 


above  do  not  correspond  with  the 
Pipe  Rolls, 


158 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


Illi" 


V' 


nr,s. 


Walterus  de  Witfeld,  j  militem. 

Hugo  Pauntone,  iij  milites  in  hoc  comitatu. 
Gerardus  de  Torney,  ij  milites,  per  Vicecomitem. 
Idem,  iij  milites,  pro  Roberto  de  Bulers. 


Walterus  de  Lascy,  x  milites  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Walterus  de  Cliford,  j  feodum  et  dimidium. 

Ricardus  de  Sanforde,  j  feodum. 

ABaldwinus  Wiscliart,  v  partem  [militis]. 

Ricardus  de  Chetthulle,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Lopintone,  j  militem. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti,  dimidium  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Mortimer,  v  milites. 

Ymgerham  de  Pratellis,  j  militem  in  Idesbale. 
Willelmus  Boterel,  ix  milites  de  honore  Galfridi  de 
Ver,  et  v  milites  de  honore  Eudonis  Dapiferi,  ut  viij0. 
Wido  Extraneus,  j  militem  et  dimidium,  ut  viij0. 
Robertus  de  Boterellis,  iij  milites  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Herefordia  in  Wallia. 

Walterus  de  Cormailes,  ix  milites ;  in  vto,  x. 

Episcopus  Herefordiensis,  xv  milites. 

Johannes  de  Kilpec,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Robertus  de  Chandos,  xiij  milites  et  vjam  [partem]. 
Gilbertus  Talebot,  j  militem. 

Reginaldus  de  Balny,  j  [feodum]  militis  quod  fuit 
Willelmi  filii  Reginaldi. 

Thomas  de  Maurdin,  iiij  partem  [militis]. 

Johannes  de  Maurdin,  iij  [milites]. 

Walterus  de  Lascy,  lj  [milites]  et  quartam  [partem]. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


159 


VtJ-  Mathaeus  de  Gamages,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Malherbe,  x  partem  [militis]  in  Manne. 
Robertus  Tregoz,  xix  milites  cum  filia  Roberti  de 
Euyas. 

Hugo  de  Ferariis,  xxiij  milites  de  feodo  Hugonis  de 
Sai. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


XIIIUS.  Hugo  Forestarius,  j  militem  et  dimidium.  Heredes 
Osberti  filii  Hugonis.1 

Baronia  Adse  de  Port,  xxij  milites  et  dimidium, 
sextam  et  x  [partem] ;  et  j  feodum  et  ij  partes  de  novo. 
Henricus  de  Nuncamp,  j  feodum  in  Wiltonia. 

Radulfus  de  Bray,  x  partem  in  Maune. 


Lancastria. 

Honor  Lancastriae,  lx  et  xij  milites  et  dimidium,  et 
xiij  per  Vicecomitem  ;  de  quibus  in  perdonis  Gilberto 
filio  Reinfray  dimidium  militem ;  Willelmo  le  Boteiler, 
vij  milites  ;  Roberto  de  Greile,  xij  milites  ;  Rogero  de 
Monte  Begonis,  viij  milites ;  Constabulario  Cestriae,  viij 
[milites]. 


III0.  Robertus  le  Vavassur,  dimidium  militem,  iij  et  xij 
[partem]. 

Radulfus  de  Sancto  Georgio,  dimidium  militem. 
Radulfus  de  Gamelestone,  iij  milites. 

Adam  de  Laptone  et  Thomas  de  Gutburgo,  j  militem. 
Ricardus  de  Molineus,  dimidium  militem. 

Gilbertus  filius  Reinfrey,  j  militem  hic  et  ij  in 
W  estmerilonde. 

Teobaldus  Walteri,  dimidium  militem ;  immo  iij  ut 
iiijto.2 


1  Sic  in  MS.  In  the  Pipe  Roll  j  2  Sicut  Vicecomes  dicit  sed  habet 
this  is  one  of  several  entries  under  |  quietantiam  per  breve. — T.  R. 

Quieti  per  Brevia,  which  are  omitted 
here, 


160 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.I). 

1201-12. 


II 11°. 


Fo.  78  d. 


V®. 


XI 11°. 


Adam  de  Middeltone,  xiiij  partem. 

Rogerus  de  Frekintone,  Galfridus  Gernet,  Quenilde  de 
Wartone,  iij  milites. 


Rogerus  de  Stokeforde,  iiij  partem. 

Thomas  de  Goseburne  et  Adam  de  Laptone,  j  militem. 
Galfridus  Carbunel,  dimidium  militem. 

Prior  de  Grimesby,  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  Falconarius,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  Costentin,  j  militem. 

Ranulfus  de  Viry,  dimidium  militem. 

Hogo  Porcarius,  ij  milites  in  Crokestone. 

Jarforde  de  Hiltone,  vjam  partem. 

Osbertus  filius  Ricardi,  et  socii  sui,  iij  x  et  dimidia  x.1 
Robertus  de  Greile,  xij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Monte  Begonis,  viij  milites. 

Rogerus  Constabularius  Cestriae,  viij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Arestane,  j  militem. 


Galfridus  Monachus,  j  militem. 
Willelmus  filius  Simonis,  j  militem. 
Kadulfus  de  Mareseye,  iij  milites. 
Michael  Maunuwer,  ij  milites. 


Honor  Lancastriae,  lxxviij  milites  et  dimidium,  et 
iiijam  [partem]  per  Vicecomitem. 

Devonescira. 

Episcopus  Exoniensis,  xvij  milites  et  dimidium,  et  v 
[partem] ;  in  vto,  xv  [milites]  et  dimidium. 

Henricus  de  Tracy,  xxv  milites  et  iiijtam  [partem]. 
Hugo  Peverel,  iij  partes. 

Godefridus  de  Leste,  j  militem. 


'  Scilicet  de  tribus  decimis  partibus  et  dimidia  decima. — T.  R. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


161 


iii°. 


Willelmus  de  Novo  Mercato,  dimidium  militem. 
Comes  Willelmus  de  Ripariis,  xv  milites. 
Willelmus  de  Breusa,  xxviij  milites. 

Galfridus  de  Aubemarle,  j  militem. 


Honor  de  Torintone,  xix  milites,  et  vj  [milites]  de 
honore  Comitis  Gloucestriae. 

Robertus  de  Secheville,  j  militem. 

Abbas  de  Tauvistoke,  j  militem,  unde  est  contentio. 
Hawisa  de  Curtenai,  xviij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Londonia,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Dominus  de  Purford,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Ripariis,  xv  milites  quos  recognoscit,1  et 
xlv  milites  quos  non  recognoscit,  et  viij  quos  tenet  de 
Comite  Gloucestriae. 

Willelmus  filius  Martini,  v  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Vautord,  j  militem. 


CoRNUBIA. 

Radulfus  de  Rupe,  iij  milites  et  iij  de  honore 
Mortoniae. 

Nicholaus  de  Middeltone,  x  milites  de  eodem. 

Alanus  Blouns,  vi  j  milites  de  eodem. 

Ricardus  de  Trelles,  j  militem  de  eodem. 

Robertus  de  Bikelega,  v  milites  de  eodem. 

Simon  Pincerna,  j  militem  in  capite. 

Faramus  de  Walebrans,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Cardinan,  lxxj  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Vautord,  lix  [milites]. 

Willelmus  Boterel,  xij  milites. 

Episcopus  Wintoniensis,  xj  milites  hic. 

Stephanus  de  Flandria,  vj  milites  de  honore  Mortoniae. 
Gervasius  de  Hornicote,  v  milites. 

Robertus  de  Heris,  j  militem. 

1  recongnoscit  in  MS. 

63377.  L 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


162 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Honor  Comitis  Reginaldi,  hic  et  in  Devonia  qui  re¬ 
spondent  ad  feudum  de  Mortonia,  ccxv  milites  et  iiijtam 
[partem]. 


Petrus  Bordone,  j  militem. 

Milo  de  Buteford,  j  militem. 

Oliverus  de  Tracy,  xxviij  milites. 

Feodum  de  Torneburia,  iiij  partem  [militis]  de  honore 
Mortoniae. 

Radulfus  Orewey,  dimidium  militem. 

Rogerus  Corbin,  vj  partem. 

Hugo  Peverel,  dimidium  militem. 

Adam  de  Port,  de  Wallia,  ij  milites. 


Willelmus  de  Briwerre,  x  milites  de  honore  de  Bam- 
tone,  et  continetur  ibidem  quod  idem  Willelmus  emit 
x  feoda  quae  fuerunt  Nicholai  de  Middeltone,  et  unum 
feodum  quod  fuit  Roberti  del  Estre  in  Langeforde,  et 
unum  feodum  quod  Johannes  Briwerre  tenuit,  et  j  feo¬ 
dum  quod  Robertus  Camerarius  tenuit  in  Comtone,  et 
sergantariam  quam  habet  in  Curia  Regis,  et  dimidium 
feodum  quod  Radulfus  de  Seccheville  tenuit  in  Torp, 
et  dimidium  feodum  quod  Radulfus  Gernun  tenuit  in 
Baucwelle ;  de  quibus  debet  Regi,  xiiij  milites  et  j  ser- 
ganteriam. 

Willelmus  de  Borhard,  ij  milites  de  honore  Mortoniae. 

Henricus  de  Pomeraria,  xxxij  milites  et  ij  partes. 

Hernicus  de  Tylli,  ix  milites  et  dimidium  in  Devonia. 

Radulfus  Tessun,  j  militem  de  honore  ejusdem  Henrici, 
de  honore  Mortoniae. 

Hugo  Bardulf,  iiij  milites. 

Rogerus  la  Susche,  j  militem. 

Johannes  le  Sore,  ij  milites. 

Henricus  de  Cultura,  tertiam  [partem  militis]. 

Rogerus  Corbin,  vjam  [partem  militis]. 

Ricavdus  dei  Estre,  quartam  [partem  militis]. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO.  163 

Henricus  de  Luttone,  viijam  [partem  militis]. 

Egidius  de  Yiteberewe,  iiijtam  [partem  militis]. 
Ricardus  filius  Ricardi,  j  militem. 

W[illelmus]  [Radulfi].  Idem  Willelmus  in  vt0.1 
Ricardus  filius  Ivonis,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  Oliveri,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Henricus  filius  Willelmi,  iiij  milites. 

Bartholomseus  Toretb,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Baldwini,  j  militem. 


Xlliu".  Ricardus  Walensis,  j  militem. 


Eboracsira. 

Willelmus  PaineL2 
Willelmus  filius  Ranulfi.2 
Ada  de  Brus.2 
Jocelinus  de  Lovene.2 

Robertus  Walensis,  j  militem,  eo  quod  feodum  suum 
non  est  attornatum  Widoni  de  la  Yal  vel  Constabulario. 

Roaldus  Falani,  vj  milites  et  dimidium  de  honore 
Britanniae. 

Hugo  filius  Gernagan,  iij  milites  et  dimidium  de 
eodem  honore. 

Walterus  de  Cancy,  v  milites  de  eodem  honore. 
Conanus  de  Ascape,  j  militem  de  eodem  honore. 
Willelmus  Painel,  xv  milites. 

Archiepiscopus  Eboracensis,  xx  milites. 

Cometissa  de  Warewic,  xv  milites. 

Wido  de  la  Yal,  xx  milites. 

Agnes  de  Percy,  xv  milites. 


1  Sic  in  MS.,  but  Radulfi  appears 
to  be  sub -punctuated,  and  the  entry 
cannot  be  identified  in  the  Roll. 
The  whole  of  this  scutage  is  very 


corrupt ;  the  entries  of  the  5  th  and 
13th  years  being  apparently  con¬ 
fused. 

2  Sic  in  MS.  See  p.  169,  note. 

L  2 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


Fo.  79. 


164 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


AD. 

1201-12. 


Isti  sunt 
quieti  hoc 
anno  per 
hrevia. 


Isti  hahent 
fquietan- 
tiam]  per 
brevia. 


Robertus  de  Bulers,  iij  milites  et  vtam  [partem]. 
Honor  de  Tykeulle,  hic  x  milites. 


Robertus  de  Tornam,  Willelmus  Dauby  ni,  Willelmus 
de  Stuteville,  Willelmus  de  Munbrai,  Episcopi  Dun- 
olmi  et  Londoniae,  Comites  Britanniae  et  Albemarlae, 
Eustachius  de  Yescy,  Jolanus  de  Neville,  Petrus  de 
Brus,  Constabularius  Cestriae. 


Emma  de  Humaiz,  iij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Setech[eville],  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Pagani,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Seltone,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  Selvain,  j  militem. 

Andreas  de  Feugers,  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Cancy,  v  milites. 

Willelmus  Painel,  xv  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Munbray,  de  iiijxx  et  viij  feodis  et 
iiijta  [parte].  Eustachius  de  Yessy,  de  xxiiij  et  iija 
[parte].  Episcopus  Dunol mensis,  de  x  [feodis].  Roger us 
Camerarius,  de  j  [feodo]  et  iiijta  [parte].  Rogerus  le 
Bigot,  de  ix  feodis.  Petrus  de  Brus,  de  xv  feodis. 
Willelmus  de  Stuteville,  de  viijto  feodis.  Robertus 
de  Torneham,  de  xxxj  et  dimidio  feodis.  Comes  de 
Albamara,  de  xx  feodis.  Comes  Britanniae,  de  1  [feodis] 
in  hoc  comitatu. 


Willelmus  de  Chaosis,  j  militem. 

Honor  Comitis  Britanniae,  c  et  xl  feoda,  per  Vice- 
comitem,  quia  cc  et  iiijxxm. 

Stephanus  filius  Herberti  Camerarii,  j  militem  et 
xiijmam  [partem]. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


165 


XIII°'.  Ricardus  de  Percy,  xv  milites  de  medietate  honoris 
Willelmi  de  Percy. 

Willelmus  Brisver,  custos  hteredis  alterius  medietatis, 
xv  milites. 

Hernicus  de  Neville,  haeres  Bertram  de  Bolimer,  iij 
milites  et  xvj  partem. 

Constabularius  Cestrise,  xliij  milites  et  dimidium  et 
iiijtam  [partem]  de  feodo  de  Lascy. 

Mauricius  de  Gaunt,  xij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Robertus  de  Ros,  v  milites,  ij  tertias,  j  quartam  [par¬ 
tem],  j  xijtam,  j  xxam,  j  xxvtam,  et  iij  milites  et  tertiam 
partem  de  feodo  quod  fuit  \\  illelmi  Trussebut,  et  iiij 
milites  et  iiijtam  et  sextam  [partem]  de  feodo  de  Wartre. 

Willelmus  Daubyni,  iij  milites  et  tertiam  partem  de 
feodo  Tiussebut,  et  iiij  milites  et  iiij  [partem]  et 
sextam  de  feodo  de  Wartre. 

Yllarius  Trussebut,  iij  milites  et  iijam  partem  de 
feodo  Trussebut,  et  iiij  milites  et  quartam  [partem] 
et  sextam  de  feodo  de  Wartre. 

Robertus  de  Veteri  Ponte,  iij  feoda  et  tertiam  partem. 

Comes  Cestrise,  1  milites. 

Hugo  Painel,  iij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Dorsete.  Sumersete. 

Robertus  Belet,  j  militem.  Item,  xv  milites,  ut  viij°, 
de  honore  de  Poverstoke. 

Willelmus  de  Monte  Acuto.1 

Willelmus  filius  Johannis  de  Harpetre,  iiij  Lpar- 

em]  et  xvj. 

Johannes  de  Soleigny.1 

Galfridus  de  Mandeville,  j  militem,  ut  viij0. 

Robertus  de  Novo  Burgo.1 

Willelmus  Joil[ent],  j  militem  de  Mor[tonia},  ut  viij0. 

Radulfus  Luvel,  ut  infra  iiij°. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


1  Sic  in  MS.  The  scribe  has 
apparenti}  extracted  indiscrimi¬ 
nately  from  the  Rolls  of  the  1st, 


2nd,  and  3rd  years,  creating  a 
hopeless  confusion. 


166 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


XIII t0. 


Ricardus  Cotele,  j  militem,  ut  viij°. 

Ricardus  de  Atrio.1 

Henricus  Tortesmains,  j  militem,  ut  viij0. 

Honor  Willelmi  de  Moiun.1 

Willelmus  de  Kaaines,  x  milites  et  dimidium,  et  xvjara 
de  feodo  Mortonise,  ut  viij0. 

Robertus  Malherbe,  Thomas  Briani,  Willelmus  le 
Os  tricer,2  j  militem  in  hiis  comitatibus. 

Willelmus  de  Mora,  ut  infra  iiij0. 

Thomas  de  Lovertone,  j  militem,  ut  viij°. 

Willelmus  Malet.1 

Ada  de  Cusintone,  j  militem,  ut  viij°. 

Episcopus  Batoniensis,  xx  milites. 

Mater  Willelmi  de  Aure,  j  militem,  ut  viij°. 

Abbatissa  b ancti  Eadwardi,  vij  milites ;  in  xiij0,  x, 
quartam  [partem]  et  sextam. 

Galfridus  Foliot,  j  militem,  ut  viij0. 

Abbas  de  Cerne,  ij  milites ;  in  xiij0,  x  [milites]. 

Abbas  de  Abbodesburia,  j  militem. 

Abbas  Sirebumise,  ij  milites  et  vtam  [partem]. 

Willelmus  Malet,  xxij  milites  et  dimidium,  et  duas, 
tertias,  et  unam  quartam  et  j  xxam  [partem]. 

Hicholaus  de  Merihet,  j  militem  et  j  et  dimidium  de 
honore  Mortonise. 

Philippus  de  Columbers,  x  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Wrotham,  j  militem  in  terra  quae  fuit 
Osberti  de  Osbertiville  de  dono  Regis  Ricardi. 

Robertus  filius  Pagani,  xv  milites  de  medietate  feodi 
Gereberti  de  Percy. 

Radulfus  filius  Bemardi,  j  militem,  ut  viij0. 

Radulfus  Lovel,  x  milites,  et  vij  et  dimidium  de 
honore  Mortonise. 

Ricardus  filius  Willelmi,  iij  milites  in  Heselberewe  ; 
immo  vij  milites  et  iiijtam  [partem]  Montis  Acuti,  ut  viij0. 

Wandregesilius  de  Curcellis,  tertiam  partem  [militis] ; 
in  xiij0,  j  militem,  ut  viij0. 

i.e.,  Austurcarius. 


1  Sie  in  MS.  See  note  on  p.  105.  | 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCAOCARIO. 


167 


Robertus  J unior,  j  militem.  A.D. 

Philippus  de  Nortone,  j  militem.  1201-12 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato,  j  militem,  ut  viij0. 

W  illelmus  de  Mora,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Bigot,  dimidium  militem,  ut  viij°. 

Henricus  de  Cultura,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  lilius  Azonis,  j  militem,  ut  viij°. 

Radulfus  de  Tymbresburia,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Broctone,  j  militem,  ut  viij0. 

Fulco  de  Alnou,  j  militem  in  Cumtone. 

Ascuil  de  Soilgny,  duas  partes  [militis],  Fo.  79  d. 

Galfridus  de  Wandestre,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Bello  Campo,  xvij  milites  de  honore 
Mortonise. 

Alvredus  de  Lincolnia,  xxiiij  milites  et  dimidium,  in 
quinto,  et  xvjaIU  [partem] ;  in  viij0,  xxv  milites  et  vjtam 
[partem]. 

Robertus  Belet,  j  militem. 

JohaDnes  de  Campo  Florido,  j  militem,  ut  viij°. 

Henricus  de  Tilly,  xiiij  milites  et  dimidium  et 
quartam  [partem]. 

Honor  de  Porestoke,  xv  milites. 

Rogerus  filius  Henrici,  j  militem, 

Rogerus  de  Arundel,  iij  milites,  ut  viij0. 

Abbas  de  Muchelneye,  j  militem. 


De  honore  Mortonle.1 

J ohannes  Pulein,  j  militem. 

Johannes  de  Monte  Acuto,  x  milites. 

Walterus  de  Esselega,  x  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Atrio,  iiij  milites  et  tertiam  [partem], 
Ricardus  Briwerre,  vij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Willelmus  de  Novo  Mercato,  xvij  milites  et  dimidium 
et  iiijtam  [partem]. 


1  This  heading  is  not  rubricated  in  the  MS. 


168 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


Willelmus  filius  Johannis,  dimidium  militem, 

Walterus  filius  Godefridi,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Monte  Acuto,  x  milites. 

Johannes  de  Briwes,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Vermin,  x  milites. 

Alanus  de  Botereus,  dimidium  militem. 

Ranulfus  de  Viry,  j  militem. 

De  honore  de  Dunesitorn.1 

Lucia  de  Mony,  vij  milites. 

Walterus  de  Lega,  dimidium  militem. 

Alexander  de  Lisewic,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Elias  Talebot,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Aula,  dimidium  militem. 

Alexander  Eferard,  dimidium  militem. 

W alterus  Dunheved,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Belet,  ij  milites. 

Warinus  filius  Geroldi,  ij  milites. 

Radulfus  filius  Willelmi,  iij  milites,  immo  v  et  dimi¬ 
dium  ;  v  in  viij0-. 

Robertus  filius  Ricardi,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Simon  de  Insula,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Windesores,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Ponte  Cardonis,  dimidium  militem. 
Simon  Bozun,  j  militem. 

Simon  Brito,  ij  milites. 

Reginaldus  de  Badihamtone,  iij  milites. 

Johannes  de  Chaunflur,  j  militem. 

Walterus  Torpyn,  j  militem. 

Thomas  de  Greinville,  j  militem  et  dimidium,  ut  viij°. 
Alvredus  de  Bikecumbe,  j  militem. 

W  illelmus  de  Sancto  Leodegaro,  j  militem. 

Johannes  de  Moun,  j  militem. 

Summa.2 


1  This  beading  if?  not  rubricated 

in  the  MS. 


2  Sic  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


169 


Sibilla  de  Bononia,  j  militem  de  honore  Bononiae. 
Willelmus  Martel,  dimidium  militem  de  eodem. 


V®.  Abbas  Glastoniae,  xl  milites. 

W illelmus  filius  Reginaldi  de  Lussewrthe,  j  militem. 

Johannes  filius  Ricardi  Pincernae,  vij  milites  de  honore 
Mortoniae. 

Galfridus  de  Mauregard  et  Galfridus  de  Beytone. 

Rogerus  filius  Nicholai,  j  militem  et  dimidium  in 
Tikeham. 

Willelmus  filius  Galfridi,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Radulfi,j  militem. 

Willelmus  Martel,  vj  milites,  et  j  feodum  et  dimidium 
de  Monte  Acuto ;  et  dimidium  feodum  de  novo  feffa- 
mento;  in  viij0,  vj  milites  xvj[am  partem]  minus. 

Johannes  de  Monte  Acuto  haeres  Ricardi  filii  Willelmi, 
x  milites  de  Monte  Acuto. 

Warinus  filius  Geroldi,  xxiiij  milites  et  dimidium,  et 
tres  partes  de  honore  Willelmi  de  Curcy  cum  uxore  sua 
haerede  ipsius  Willelmi,  et  xv  milites  et  dimidium  de 
baronia  Willelmi  de  Meschin. 

Ricardus  Briwerre,  xv  milites  de  honore  Mortoniae  qui 
fuerunt  Walteri  Britonis. 

Reginaldus  de  Moun,  xlj  milites. 

Robertus  de  Novo  burgo,  xv  milites  de  feodo  Rogeri 
de  Arundel. 


Lincolnesyra. 

Episcopus  Lincolniensis.1 
Simon  de  Cancy.1 


1  Sic  iu  MS.  These  are  appa¬ 
rently  further  entries  for  the  first 
scutage  already  noted,  and  they 
are  clearly  out  of  place  here.  The 
scrihe  was  evidently  uncertain  as 
to  their  true  position.  In  fact,  this 


and  other  mistakes  are  due  to  his 
not  perceiving  that  the  1st  and  2nd 
and  2nd  and  3rd  Rolls  contain  re¬ 
spectively  the  linked  accouuts  of 
the  1st  and  2nd  scutages. 


A.D. 

1201-12 


17a 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


1111°. 


Walterus  de  Neville.1 
Robertus  de  Bulers.1 
Wido  de  la  Val.1 
Ricardus  de  Marinis.1 
Ada  Painel.1 
Baldwinus  Wake.1 


Custodes  Episcopatus,  lx  milites  quos  Episcopus 
debet  Regi,  et  xiij  milites  et  dimidium  quos  habet  in 
dominico ;  de  quibus  in  perdonis  Hugoni  de  Chaucumbe, 
vj  milites ;  Hugoni  de  Well[es],  dimidium  militem ; 
Henrico  de  Neville,  v  milites ;  Waltero  Everemim 
[j  militem  et  xvjam  partem]2;  Cantuariensi  Archiepis- 
copo,  vj  milites ;  Radulfo  de  Mandeville,  xxv  milites 
et  duas  partes. 

Otuelus  de  Insula,  j  militem,  per  Yicecomitem. 

Henricus  de  Neville,  j  militem. 

Cecilia  de  Crevequer,  xv  milites  ;  in  xiij0,  xiij  [milites]. 

Lambertus  de  Scotiny,  x  milites,  per  Yicecomitem. 

Archiepiscopus  Eboracensis,  x  milites  et  dimidium. 

Ricardus  de  Peccho,  j  militem. 

Johannes  Malherbe,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Martel,  quartam  [partem]. 

Simon  de  Kime,  ij  milites  ;  in  xiij°,  j  [militem]  et 
dimidium. 

Radulfus  de  Hanville,  j  militem  in  Aconeby. 

Willelmus  de  Bereville,  vtam  [partem]  et  xvam. 

Willelmus  filius  Simonis,  j  militem  de  honore  Lan- 
castriae. 

Bertram  de  Yerdun,  iij  partes  de  eodem  honore. 


1  Sic  in  MS.  See  p.  169,  note. 

2  Omitted  in  MS.  Supplied  from 


T.  R.  by  a  calculation  of  28s.  4 d. 
paid. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


171 


Vt0.  Magister  Alarms  de  Bolesovere,  dimidium  militem. 
Henricus  filius  Hugonis  de  Neville,  j  militem. 
Willelmus  de  Longo  Campo,  xxij  milites  et  dimidium  ; 
et  de  novo  feffamento,  iiij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 

Oliverus  de  Aencurt,  xl  milites ;  in  xiijG,  xxxv  [mi¬ 
lites],  per  Episcopum  Norwicensem. 


A.D. 

,1201-12. 

Fo.  80. 


XIII0.  Baudwinus  Wake,  x  milites  et  viijara  [partem]. 
Bobertus  Camerarius,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Roberti  de  Haia,  j  militem. 

Gerardus  de  Canville,  xvi  milites  cum  uxore  sua,  de 
Baronia  Ricardi  de  Haia. 

Comes  Cestrise,  lix  milites  et  iiijtam  partem,  ix 
feodorum  et  dimidii  quae  Willelmus  de  Roumare  re¬ 
laxavit. 

Henricus  de  Mare,  xxij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Haeres  Hugonis  de  Baiocis,  xvj  milites  et  dimidium. 
Gilbertus  de  Gaunt,  lxviij  milites,  iijam  [partem]  et  vtanl. 
Normannus  de  Arescy,  xx  milites. 

Thomas  filius  Willelmi  de  Scoteiny,  x  milites. 
Robertus  de  Tetishale,  xxv  milites. 

Henricus  de  Neville  de  Burede,  j  militem  de  novo 
[feffamento]. 

Henricus  de  Neville  de  Hale,  j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Hanville,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Norhamtesyra. 

Walterus  de  Draiton,  dimidium  militem,  ut  viij°. 
Ricardus  Foliot.1 


1  Sic  in  MS.  The  cause  of  this 
omission  is  evidently  the  perplexity 
of  the  scribe  at  the  exceedingly 
small  amounts  levied  in  each  case, 
which,  however,  are  owing  to  the 
fact  that  the  second  scutage  was 


not  fully  accounted  for  until  the 
3rd  year  according  to  Swereford’s 
own  statement.  The  true  returns 
will  be  found  under  the  3rd  year, 
hut  they  are  omitted  here'. 


172 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


IIR 


1111°. 


Robertus  de  Chokes.1 
Robertus  Marmiim.1 
Prior  Coventrise.1 
Bernardus  de  Baylel.1 
Matilldis  Giffard.1 
Comes  Albricus.1 
Thomas  de  Beufou.1 


Rogerus  de  Bray,  dimidium  militem  de  honore  de 
Chokes. 

Thomas  filius  Eustachii,  tres  partes  de  eodem  honore. 


Henricus  de  Pinkeny,  xvij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Kaaines,  vij  milites  et  dimidium  de 
honore  Mortonise. 

G[alfridus]  filius  Petri,  dimidium  militem  vjtam  et 
xijam  [partem]. 

Ricardus  Engayne,  iiijtam  [partem]. 

Abbas  de  Burgo,  lx  milites. 

Honor  Peverelli  de  Notingtham,2  praeter  Robertum  de 
Sauser,  Petrum  de  Goldintone,  Willelmum  filium  Roberti, 
ij  milites  et  dimidium  et  iiijtam  [partem],  per  Vicecomitem. 

Honor  Mortonise,  j  militem  et  dimidium  et  [xvjam 
partem],3  per  Vicecomitem. 

Comes  Albricus,  iij  milites. 

Honor  de  Chokes,  xv  milites  ;  de  quibus  in  perdonis 
Willelmo  de  Humez,  ij  milites,  Saielo  de  Quency,  ij 
milites  in  Bukeby. 

Johannes  Marescallus,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Robertus  Marmiun,  dimidium  militem, 

Doun  Bardulf,  j  militem. 


1  Sic  in  MS.  See  p.  171,  note.  T.  R,  by  a  calculation  of  41s.  8 d. 

2  Sic  in  MS.  paid. 

3  Blank  in  MS.  Supplied  from 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


173 


Come.',  Warewicae,  ij  milites  et  v  milites  et  iiijtam 
partem  in  Rotelande. 


v°-  Margareta  Foliot,  j  militem. 

Aldulfus  de  Cratistene,  j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Insures,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Grimbaud,1  dimidium  militem  et  dimidiam 
quartam. 

Alicia  de  Dustone,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Ricardus  Basset,  xv  milites. 


xm°.  Eusta chius  de  Watforde,  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Bractone,  dimidium  militem  de  feodo 
Roberti  filii  Alberti  Camerarii. 

Fulco  de  Insures,  j  militem,  per  H[ugonem]  de  Neville. 

Walterus  de  Prestone,  dimidium  militem  in  Gretone. 

Johannes  de  Bidun,  v  milites  et  dimidium,  per  W[illel- 
mum  Briwerre. 

Simon  de  Lindone,  ij  milites,  pro  W[illelmo]  de 
Humes,  de  honore  de  Chokes. 

Ricardus  filius  Ursonis,  iij  milites  [et]  vj  partem,  per 
W[alterum]  de  Cortenay. 

Coni  es  de  Ferariis,  j  militem  in  Hecham. 

Walterus  de  Cortenay,  iij  milites  et  vjtam  [partem]. 

Wischard  Ledet,  xiij  milites  et  dimidium  et  iiijtam 
[partem]. 

Comes  Cestrise,  ij  milites  in  Olneye. 

Willelmus  de  Bustone,  j  militem  de  honore  Mortoniae; 
imrao  j  militem  et  dimidium  ut  in  viij0  de  feodo  de 
Bustone. 

Essexa.  Hertforde. 

Willelmus  de  Reymes.2 

Willelmus  de  Helyun.2 

Ricardus  de  Reymes.2 

1  Tnaibaud  in  MS.,  altered  to  I  2  Sic  in  MS.  See  p.  17 1,  note. 

Grimbaud. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


174 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SC  ACC  ARIO. 


A.D.  Willelmus  cle  Cloville.1 

1201  12,  Willelmus  de  Sancto  Clavo.1 

Robertus  de  Hastinges.1 
Simon  Peccatum.1 
Rogerus  Talebot.1 
Willelmus  filius  Ranulfi.1 
Godefridus  de  Luveine.1 
Robertus  Monachus.1 
Radulfus  de  Neueland,  ij  milites. 

Emma  de  Cantelupo,  ij  milites. 

Henricus  Lohot,  j  militem, 

Willelmus  Faucilun,  j  militem. 

Gilbertus  de  Tama,  v  milites  et  dimidium. 

1  Robertus  de  Helyun,  x  milites. 

Serio  de  Marcy,  j  militem. 

.  Henricus  de  Pinkiny,  xvij  milites. 

Hubert  de  Anesty,  v  milites. 

Arnulfus  Malegrefle,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  Picot,  iiij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Ameneville,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Banyflet,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Otonis,  j  militem. 

Fo.  so  d.  Mater  ejus,  j  militem. 

Simon  de  Merc,  ij  milites. 

Henricus  de  Merc,  iij  milites. 

Galfridus  Ridel,  v  milites. 

Osbertus  de  Mara,  j  militem. 

Johannes  de  Stobinges,  dimidium  militem  de  honore 
Peverelli  Dovrae. 

Willelmus  de  Witsond,  j  militem  de  eodem. 

Hugo  de  Bocstode,  j  militem  de  eodem. 

Mathaeus  Mantel,  j  militem  de  eodem. 

V<>.  Galfridus  de  Cramaville,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Haia,  ij  milites  et  dimidium  de  honore 
Bononiae. 


1  Sic  in  MS.  See  p.  171,  note. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO.  175 

Willelmus  de  Clerbec,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Ranulfi,  i iij partem  [militis]. 

Hervicus  de  Clerbec,  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  de  Pinkeny,  j  militem. 

Milo  de  Sumery,  iij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Radulfus  de  Rovcestria,  v  milites  et  quartam  [partem]. 
Willelmus  de  Helmare,  j  militem. 

Thomas  de  Canville,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Boseville,  ij  milites. 

Beatriz  de  Luscy,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Marescallus,  quartam  partem  [militis]. 
Robertus  de  Lamburne,  ij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Marcy,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  Tresgoz,  vj  milites. 

Galfridus  de  Fercles,  iij  milites. 

Ernaldus  de  Curtone,  j  militem. 

Johannes  filius  Leonardi,  j  militem. 

Gilbertus  de  Tany,  vij  milites. 

Johannes  de  Stepinge,  dimidium  militem  de  honore 
Doveriae. 

Abbas  Sancti  Albani,  vj  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Munfichet,  xlvij  milites,  et  iiijara  partem  de 
veteri  et  quintam  [partem]  de  novo  [feffamento],  ut  xiij0.1 
Albricus  de  Ver,  xxx  milites,  ut  viij0.1 


Xlll°.  Warinus  filius  Geroldi,  liij  milites,  et  iiijtam  [partem] 
de  feudo  Eudonis  Dapiferi,  et  vij  milites  et  duas  quintas 
de  novo  feffamento  Regis  Henrici  secundi. 

Robertus  filius  Walteri,  lxiij  milites  et  dimidium  de 
propria  haereditate ;  et  xxx  milites  et  iij  [partem]  de 
haereditate  uxoris  suae  haeredis  Roberti  de  Yaloniis ;  et 
ij  milites  pro  Galfrido  de  Gavoloniis  de  haereditate  ejus¬ 
dem  uxoris. 

Godefridus  de  Lovania,  x  milites  cum  filia  et  haerede 
Roberti  de  Hastimjes. 

O 


A.D; 

1201-12, 


1  cl  in  MS. 


176 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACOARIO. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


1II‘°. 


Paganus  de  Chawrthes,  j  militem  in  Linlega,  quae  fuit 
Willelmi  Malet. 

Robertus  de  Mara,  haeres  Albani  de  Gyruy,  j  militem. 
G[alfridus]  filius  Petri,  iiijxx  et  xviij  milites  et  ter¬ 
tiam  [partem],  et  xxij  milites  et  dimidium  et  duodecimam 
[partem]  de  honore  Berkhamstude  de  feodo  Mortoniae. 


OxONEFORD. 

Henricus  Douly,  xxxij  milites  et  quartam  [partem]. 
Radulfus  filius  Wigayn,  quartam  [partem]. 
Wakelinus  Hareng,  j  militem. 

Hervicus  Bagot,  j  militem. 

Rosrerus  de  Cestria,  dimidium  militem. 

Sewale  filius  Richeri  dimidium  militem,  ut  viij0. 
Osbern  de  Hedindone,  viij  partem. 

Gervasius  Painel,  j  militem  et  j  in  Chiselehamtone. 
Bereford  Olavi,  dimidium  militem. 

Lillingestane,  quartam  [partem]. 

Rollendrit,  dimidium  [militem]. 


Adam  de  Simplinges,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Nigelli,  j  [militem]  et  dimidium  ;  in  vto, 
ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Stephanus  de  Hamtone,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Sancto  Johanne,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Aucrintone,  tres  partes  ;  in  xiij°,  j  militem 
de  feodo  Wakelin  Harang. 

Gilbertus  filius  Gregorii,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Elyae,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Linguiere,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Luvel,  j  militem  de  Comite  Legecestriae. 
Alicia  Clementis,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Buffin,  quartam  [partem  militis]. 

Ricardus  Deoii,  j  militem  ut  viij0. 

Wido  de  Diva,  tertiam. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


177 


v. 


XIII™. 


Fo.  81. 


XIII". 


Rogerus  de  Linguiere,  dimidium  militem,  ut  viij0. 
Ricardus  Foliot,  j  militem. 

Nicholaus  de  Yerdun,  j  militem  et  duas  partes. 
Ricardus  de  Scrupis,  tertiam  [partem]. 

Thomas  de  Sancto  Valerico,  x  milites. 

Johannes  de  Hastinges,  j  militem. 

Comes  Sarrisbirim,  j  militem. 

Robertas  Marmiun,  j  militem. 

Saierus  de  Quency,  ij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Sumeri,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  Musard,  j  militem. 

Arnulfus  de  Maunvers,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Briwerre,  j  militem  in  Clintone. 
Johannes  de  Arewecurt,1  j  militem. 


Galfridus  de  Sakeville,  dimidium  militem. 
Sibilla  de  Mollintone,  j  militem. 


Robertus  de  Arsich,  xx  milites  et  iiijtam  [partem]. 
Gerardus  de  Canville,  j  militem. 

Dadintune,  ij  milites. 

Walterus  de  Yerdun,  j  militem  ;  ut  in  viij0. 

W IGORNSIRA. 

Episcopus  Wigorniensis,  xlix  milites  et  dimidium. 
Abbas  Eveshamise,  iiij  [milites]  et  dimidium. 

Abbas  de  Persora,  ij  milites. 

Abbas  Westmonasterii,  vj  milites  et  dimidium ;  in 
xiij0,  vij  milites ;  et  in  viij,  xv  milites. 


Willelmus  de  Bello  Campo,  xvj  milites.  In  aliis 
rotulis  idem. 

1  i. e.  Haroucurt. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


C3377- 


M 


178 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


IIIT", 


Norhumbrelande. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  j  militem  1  de  feodo  Rogeri  filii 
Ricardi. 

Hoeres  Ranulfi  de  Moreville,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Wigornia,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Sywardi,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Merlay,  iiij  milites. 

Walterus  vel  Petrus  de  Karun,  j  militem. 

Hseres  Stephani  de  Bulimer,  modo  Robertus  de 
Muscamp,  iiij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Herewetone,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Godefridus  Baard.2 

Philippus  de  Humez,  ij  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Umframville,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Alexander  de  Bradefeud,  j  militem. 

Thomas  de  Amundeville,  j  militem. 

Bernardus  de  Baylol.3 
Rogerus  Bertram.4 


Robertus  de  Dovelestone,  tertiam  partem  [militis]. 
Walterus  filius  Gilberti,  iij  milites. 

Nicholaus  de  Morewick,  j  militem. 

J ordanus  Heyrun,  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Bolebec,  v  milites. 

Adam  de  Tvndale,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  Mayn,  j  militem. 

Johannes  Vicecomes,  iij  milites. 

Gilbertus  de  la  Yal,  ij  milites. 


1  There  is  a  blank  in  the  MS. 
after  j,  as  though  the  scribe  was 
in  doubt  whether  to  write  j  feodum 
militis. 

2  Sic  in  MS.  Hares  Godefridi 

Baard  reddit,  compotum  de  ars.  de 

feodo  ipsius. —  T.  R. 


3  Sic  in  MS.  Eustachius  hares 
Bernardi  de  Bailloel,  Im.  de  scu- 
tagio  suo. — T.  R. 

4  Sic  in  MS.  Willelmus  Briwerre 
habet  quietantiam  dexiijm.  de  scu- 
taqio  Rogeri  Bertrami. — T.  R, 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACUARIO. 


179 


V‘°. 


VI10. 


XIII». 


Radulfus  de  Salgy,  iij  milites. 
Hugo  de  Baylol,  xxx  milites. 
Eustachius  de  Vescy,  xij  milites. 
Robertus  de  Ros,  ij  milites. 
Robertus  Bertram,  iij  milites. 


Thomas  filius  Radulfi,  iijam  partem. 

Willelmus  Bardulf,  j  militem. 

Osbertus  filius  Willelmi,  j  militem  de  custodia. 
Robertus  filius  Willelmi,  j  militem. 

Walterus  filius  Gileberti,  iij  milites. 


Ricardus  super  Teysam,  duas  partes  [militis]. 


Rogems  filius  Radulfi,  j  militem,  qui  prius  tenuit  per 
serjanteriam. 

Johannes  de  Cherlintone,  j  militem,  per  Robertum 
Bertram. 

Jacobus  de  Chaus,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  iij  milites  de  feodo  Roberti  de 
Cramaville,  et  ij  milites  de  Newbiria  et  Roby,  et  j  mili¬ 
tem  de  Werkewrthe. 

Notingeham,  Dorby. 

Rogerus  de  Burun,  x  milites,  ut  viij°. 

Willelmus  de  Chaursis,  j  militem.  Idem,  viij0. 

Honor  de  Gaunt,  v  milites  in  hiis  comitatibus,  ut 
viij°. 

Alexander  de  Pointone,  ij  milites  et  iiijtam  [partem] 
de  honore  Richemundiae. 

Willelmus  de  Durstune,  j  militem. 


M  2 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


180  LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

Adam  de  Benifeld,1  dimidium  militem. 

Oliverus  de  Welebec,  tertiam  partem. 

Robertus  de  Harestau,  j  militem. 

De  honore  Peverelli.2 

Simon  Basset,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Robertus  le  Brittun,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Greselega,  iij  milites. 

Gervasius  de  Wy  ver  tone,  vtam  partem. 

Yvo  de  Heriz,  iiij  milites. 

Robertus  de  la  Sausere,  j  militem. 

Samson  de  Stredlega,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Roberti  de  Asseby,  iij  milites. 
Thomas  Dispensarius,  quartam  partem. 

Jacobus  de  Mara,  iiijtam  partem. 

Hugo  de  Alneto,  x[am]  partem. 

Petrus  de  Goldintone,  iiij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Stivintone,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Stapelforde,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Roberti,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Normanville,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Simon  Pakemon  et  Rogerus  filius  Rogeri,  j  militem. 
Philippus  Dulecote,  dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  de  Insula,  iij  milites. 

Galfridus  de  Pavily,  iiij  milites. 

Comes  de  Ferariis,  iij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Constabularius  Cestri;®,  iij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Bello  Campo,  j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Gray,  vj  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Vernun,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Eustachius  de  Mortoyl,  iij  milites. 


Ricardus  de  Coleville,  dimidium  militem. 
Matilldis  de  Sumerville,  dimidium  militem. 


1  Rectius  Bedingfeld,  as  in  T.  R. 


2  This  heading  is  not  rubricated 


VI1». 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO.  181 

Willelmus  de  Novencurt,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Camera,  j  militem. 

Sewale  de  Barlebuc,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Sibetorp,  dimidium  militem. 

Adam  de  Cokefelde,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  Gernun,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Birkwode,  vtam  partem. 

Milo  de  Bello  Campo  et  Ricardus  frater  ejus,  j  militem 
in  Beistune. 

Robertus  de  Harestan,  j  militem. 


Walterus  de  Horte welle,  dimidium  militem  in  [vjt0].1 
In  Huptone,  j  militem,  per  Vicecomitem. 

Ricardus  Abbas,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Sancto  Patricio,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Galfridus  de  Nortone,  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Haia,  viijam  [partem  militis]. 

De  honore  de  Tikehulle.2 

Hugo  de  Addone,  iij  milites. 

Roger  us  de  Be  ver  cote,  j  militem. 

Ranulfus  de  Novo  Mercato,  j  militem  et  tertiam 
[partem]. 

Robertus  de  Sancto  Quintino,  iij[am]  partem. 

Rogerus  Monachus,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Wakelini  [iiij  milites].3 
Willelmus  Pincerna,  j  militem. 

Constabularius  Cestrise,  viij  milites.  Item,  iij  milites 
de  feodo  Willelmi  filii  Roberti. 

Gerardus  de  Furnivalle,  v  milites  et  quartam  [partem]. 
Adam  de  Novo  Mercato,  iiij  milites. 


1  Sic  in  MS ,;j  feodum  militis. — 
T.  R. 

2  This  heading  was  at  first  written 

in  ink,  and  then  scored  through 


with  a  red  line  and  the  rubric 
written  above  it. 

3  Blank  in  MS.  supplied  from 
T.  R. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


Fo.  81  d. 


182 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Philippus  de  Ulecote,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Cressy,  iiij  milites. 

Eustachius  de  Vessy,  vj[nm]  partem. 

Robertus  de  Veteri  Ponte,  duas  partes. 

Johannes  de  Eyncurt  et  Hugo  de  Stiventone,  j  militem. 
Robertus  Vavassor,  tertiam  partem. 

Pavia  de  Rantone,  dimidium  militem. 

Thomas  de  Werfrintone  et  Radulfus  de  Mistertone  et 
Robertus  de  Ordehale,  ij  milites. 

In  Eboraco,  x  feoda  et  dimidium. 


Willelmus  de  Seftone,  tres  partes. 

Robertus  filius  Pagani,  j  militem. 

Thomas  filius  Ricardi,  tres  partes. 

Hugo  de  Sandeby,  j  militem  et  vijam  [partem]. 
Radulfus  Selvayn,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Neville,  x[am]  partem. 

Gilbertus  de  Arebis,  ij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Bevercote,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Cheverecurt,  ij  milites. 

Adam  de  Bedigfelde,  dimidium  militem. 

Nigellus  de  Luvetot,  xv  milites,  cum  x  quos  habet  in 
aliis  comitatibus  extra  honorem. 

Johannes  de  Buyli,  vj  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Monte  Begonis,  x[am]  partem. 

Willelmus  de  Causes,1  iij  milites. 

Summa.2 


De  honore  de  Bolesofres.3 

Bolesovers,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Mollintone  et  Eytone,  in  Oxenefordsira,  iij  milites. 


1  Rectius  Chcturces. 

2  Sic  in  MS. 

3  There  is  no  rubric  iu  the  MS., 
hut  the  following  headings  have 
been  ingrossed  in  a  later  hand  on 


the  top  of  this  page  : — Honor  de 
Tikhulle  ;  Honor  de  Bolesore.  In 
the  Pipe  Roll  these  entries  are  under 
the  honor  of  Pevercl. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO.  183 

Bertone,  in  Suffolcia,  j  militem. 

Torintone,  in  Essexa,  j  militem. 

Goldeburt,  in  Norhamtesira,  j  militem. 

Blaculneslega,  ibidem,  j  militem. 

Haveresham,  in  Bukinghamsira,  j  militem,  et  H[ec- 
ham],1  per  Vicecomitem  de  comitatu. 


V"’.  Hubert  filius  Radulfi,  xiiij  milites. 

Gilbertus  de  Norfolcia,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  Musardus,  xij  milites,  ut  viij0. 

Petras  de  Sandiacra,  vij  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Galfridi,  dimidium  militem, 

Henricus  Hose,  dimidium  militem. 

Thomas  de  Sandale  et  Willelmus  de  Santone,  dimidium 
militem. 

Monachi  de  Swinesefed,1  dimidium  militem  in  Cote- 
grave. 

Henricus  de  Stuteville,  v  milites. 

Radullus  de  Gousle,  dimidium  militem  in  blintham. 
Oliverus  de  Aencurt,  vj  milites. 

Matilldis  de  Kauz,  xij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Ri  cardus  de  Trowelle,  dimidium  militem  et  quartam  in 
Tro  welle  et  Bran  cote. 

Archiepiscopus  Eboracensis,  iij  milites  in  Leyrtone, 
Kerlintone  et  Mu  scamp. 

Comes  de  Eerariis,  lxviij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Stafordesyra. 

Episcopus  Cestrise,1  xv  milites. 

Hervicus  Bagot,  lx  milites. 

Hugo  Pantulf,  ij  milites  hic. 

Willelmus  filius  Alani,  iiij  milites  in  hoc  comitatu. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


1  Sic  in  MS. 


184 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 

1201-12. 


Henricus  de  Oyly,  tertiam  partem  hic. 

Comes  de  Ferariis,  j  militem  et  quartam  partem. 


Iiu°.  Willelmus  de  Canville,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  le  Sauvage,  dimidium  militem. 

Nicholaus  de  Verdum,  ij  milites. 

Comes  Cestrise,  viij  milites  hic. 

Cestria.1 

A.D.  1252.  Feoda  de  comitatu  Cestrhe  secundum  inquisitionem 
Fo'  82'  factam  per  Alanum  la  Zuche  tunc  Justiciarium. 

Hamo  de  Mascy  tenet  vC|Ue  feoda  militem. 

RogeruB  de  Yenables,  x  feoda. 

Warinus  de  Yernun,  quinque  feoda  pra3ter  sextam  partem 
unius  feodi  de  baron  ia  Wycy  Maubanci,  et  sex  feoda,  tertiam 
partem,  et  octavam  partem  unius  militis  de  feodo  de  Schypbroke. 

Jacobus  de  Audithele  iiijor  feoda  de  eadem  baronia  Wichi 
Maubanci. 

Philippa  Comitissa  Warwikse,iij  feoda  de  eadem  baronia. 
Adam  Mustelus  et  Laurentius  de  Saunforde  tenent  iij  feoda 
de  eadem  baronia. 

Edmundus  de  Lascy,  viij  feoda  de  baronia  de  Hanletone. 
Walkelinus  de  Ardene,  vij  feoda. 

Rogerus  de  Monte  Alto,  duo  feoda  et  dimidium. 

Thomas  de  Meingnewarin,  iiij  feoda  et  dimidium. 

Robertus  Patberic,  iij  feoda. 

David  de  Malo  Passu,  iij  feoda. 

Willelmus  de  Bordele,  iiij  feoda  et  dimidium. 

Johannes  filius  Alani,  ij  feoda. 

Kinge8l[e]  cum  pertiuentiis,  j  feodum. 

Feodum  de  Roweles  respondet  pro  uno  feodo. 

Puleforde  [respondet]  pro  ij  feodis. 

Patricius  de  Haselewelle,  Bertramus  de  Molis,  et  Mathasus 
de  Thorintone,  unum  feodum. 

Edmundus  de  Soterleghe,  j  feodum. 

Haeredes  Adae  de  Hellesby  tenent  Actonam  pro  octava  parte 
unius  feodi. 


1  The  remaining  entries  of  scu¬ 
tages  are  begun  on  a  new  folio  in  the 
MS.  and  in  a  later  hand,  the  same 


apparently  as  that  of  the  entire  col¬ 
lection  of  scutages  in  the  Hargrave 
MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO.  185 

Galfridus  de  Dittone  in  Chelde,  j  feodum. 

Comes  de  Anbermarle  in  Fuleschawe  tenet  j  feodum. 

Johannes  de  Grey  tenet  iiijtam  partem  j  feodi  in  Adelintone. 
Sewale  de  Chiderintone,  quartam  partem  j  feodi. 

Willelmus  Bridone  tenet  in  custodia  apud  SwLetenham  quar¬ 
tam  partem  unius  feodi. 


IN  HOTULO  XXXYII  REGIS  HENRICI  FILII  REGIS 
JOHANNIS  ROTULO  COMPOTORUM.1 

Alanus  la  Zousche  reddit  compotum  de  xls.  de  feodo  militis 
in  compoto  de  auxilio  militum  Comitis  Cestrise  ad  filium  Regis 
militem  faciendum. 


1  In  a  stili  later  haud. 


(  186  ) 


CERTIFICATION ES  FACTA]  DE  FEODIS 
MILITUM  TEMPORE  REGIS  HENRICI 
SECUNDI  PER  PRELATOS 
ET  BARONES.1 


.D.  nee.  LONDONIA.  MIDELSEXA.2 

Fo.  83.  Carta  Episcopi  Londoniensis  de  Militibus  feffatis3 

ET  FEODIS  SUIS  TOTIUS  EPISCOPATUS. 

Willelmus  de  Wokindone,4  iiij  milites  et  dimidium ; 
et  praeter  hoc,  ex  testimonio  Curiae  meae,  dimidium 
exigo,  quem  ipse  se  non  debere  defendit. 

Simon  5  Bald,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  Baard,6  ij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Mareiny,7  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Patemere,  j  militem  et  tertiam  partem 
militis. 

Ra'lulfus  de  Peleham,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Furnols,  j  militem  et  iij  quartiers  militis. 

Thomas  de  Wideford,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Grossus,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Willelmus  de  Septem  Molis,8  ij  milites  et  iij  quartiers 
militis. 


1  This  title  is  taken  from  a  head¬ 

ing  on  F°.  83  of  the  MS.  in  a 

hand  of  Edward  II.  The  full  head¬ 

ing  is  as  follows  : — “  Certificationes 
“  fact®  de  feodis  militum  tempore 
“  Regis  Henrici  Secundi  per  prela- 
“  tos  et  barones  pretextu  mandati 

“  Regis  ejusdem  annotati  alibi  in 

“  hoc  libro,  folio  videlicet,  xlvij° 

“  precedenti.”  In  the  table  of  con¬ 

tents  at  the  beginning  and  end  of 


the  book  these  returns  appear  to  be 
included  under  the  previous  heading 
“  De  feodis  militum,”  &c.  There  is 
no  heading  in  L.  N. 

2  Londonia  et  Middelsexa,  L.  N. 

3  fefatis,  L.  N. 

*  Wokindune,  L.  N. 

5  Symon,  L.  N. 

6  Baardus,  L.  N. 

7  Marertni,  L.  N. 

8  Setmutins,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


187 


Londonia.  Midelsexa — cont. 


A.D.  1166. 


Reginaldus  de  Ginges,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Peltedone,  j  militem;  et  praeter  hoc,  ex 
testimonio  Curiae  meae,  adhuc  j  1  militem  exigo. 
Mauricius  de  M  eido  ne,2  j  militem. 

Simon  de  Alvedeleye,3  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Charneres,  dimidium  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Gray,4  dimidium  militem. 

Abbas  Sanctae  Osithae,  dimidium  militem. 

Walterus  de  Aletor,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Berniers,5  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  Marmiun,6  dimidium  militem. 

Walterus  de  Meine,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  le  Madsle,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Pagani,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Pontefracto,  tertiani  partem  militis. 
Willelmus  de  Caldene,  tertiam  7  partem  militis  et  vjtam. 
Wimundus  de  Suthministre,8  tertiam  partem  militis. 
Simon  de  Turroke,  tres7  quarterns9  militis. 

Ricardus  archidiaconus  Essexae,  tres7  quar  tiers  militis. 
Ranulfus  filius  Asketil,10  quartam  partem  militis. 
Ranulfus  de  Storteford,11  quartam  partem  militis. 
Willelmus  filius  Rogeri,  quartam  partem  militis. 
Willelmus  Dunekan,  quartam  partem  militis. 

Thola  de  Suthministre,1'2  quartam  partem  militis. 
Willelmus  de  Berdestaple,  quartam  partem  militis. 
Willelmus  de  Ver,  quartam  partem  militis. 

Liardus  de  Clakintone,13  quintam  partem  militis. 
Robertus  de  Furches,  quintam  partem  militis. 

Haec  est  summa  militum — xxxvj  milites  et  tertia  pars 


militis. 


1  unum,  L.  N. 

2  Mesdone,  L.  N. 

3  Alvedevel,  L.  N. 

4  Grai,  L.  N.. 

5  Bernier.es,  L.  N. 

6  de  Marmiun,  L.  N. 

7  iij,  L.  N. 


8  Suthmenistre,  L.  N 

9  quartiers,  L.  N. 


10  Asketili,  L.  N. 


11  Storteforde,  L.  N. 
13  Simenistre,  L.  N. 
13  C/atititone,  L.  N. 


1SS 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  U66.  Londonja.  Midelsexa — cont. 

Carta  Abbatiae  Westmonasterii  de  Militibus 

F  EFFATIS 1 2  EX  VETERI  FEFF AMENTO 3  ET  NOVO. 

Isti  sunt  qui  servitium  militis  debent  Ecclesiae  beati 
Petri  Westmonasterii : — 

Dominus  Rex  tenet  Stokes  in  Wirecestrescira  et 
inde  debet  servitium,  j  militis.'5 

Willelmus  de  Bello  Campo,  in  Wirecestrescira,  vij 
milites. 

Hugo  le  Poher,4  in  Wirecestrescira  et  Gloucestre- 
scira,  iij  milites. 

Petrus  de  Stodlega,  in  Wirecestrescira,  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Bello  Campo,  in  Wirecestrescira,  dimi¬ 
dium  militem. 

Reginaldus  de  Steinlinge,5  in  Wirecestrescira  et 
Gloucestrescira,  ij  milites. 

Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato,  in  Wirecestrescira  et 
Gloucestrescira,  ij  milites.6 

Willelmus  Folet,  in  Wirecestrescira  et  Gloucestre¬ 
scira,  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Cliford 7  debet  in  Wirecestrescira 
servitium  quintae  partis  j  militis  8  pro  una  hida 
quam  tenet. 

Willelmus  Haket,  in  Wirecestrescira,  tenet  j  hidam 
pro  quinta  parte  militis. 

Omnes  isti  servitia;  militum  recognoscunt  et  faciunt, 
secundum  quod  ad  feoda  sua  pertinet. 

Comes  Gloucestriae,  in  Gloucestrescira,  debet  ser¬ 
vitium  ij  militum,9  quod  fecit  usque  ad  extre¬ 
mum  exercitum  Walliae  ;  sed  postea  deforciavit.10 


1  fefatis,  L.  N. 

2  fef amento,  L.  N. 

3  unius  militis,  L.  N. 

4  Hugo  Puher,  L.  N. 

5  Stainlinge,  L.  N. 


6  duos  milites,  L.  N. 

7  Clifford,  L.  N. 

8  partis  militis,  L.  N. 

°  duorum  militum,  L.  N. 
10  difforciavit ,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


189 


M IDELSEXA — COTlt. 

Radulfus  de  Munemue  debet  in  Wirecestrescira 
et  Gloucestrescira  servitium  unius  militis  quod 
deforciat.1 

Walterus  del1 2  Meine,  in  Wirecestrescira,  servitium 
j  militis  ;  sed  Willelmus  de  Stantone,  qui  feodum 
illud  de  eo  tenet  medietatem  deforciat.1 

Angodus3  Duredent,  in  Bukinghainscira,4  debet  ser¬ 
vitium  dimidii  militis. 

Wakelinus,5 6  in  Surreia,  debet  servitium  tertiae 
partis  0  militis. 

In  Essexa,7  Ricardus  de  Reimes  servitium  dimidii 
militis. 

In  Midelsexa,8  Walterus  filius  Roberti  servitium 
j  militis  quod  deforciat.1 

Omnes  isti  vel  antecessores  eorum  feodati  sunt  ex 
tempore  Regis  Henrici  ;  nullus  vero  postea.9 


KENT. 

Carta  Willelmi  Comitis  GloucestrivE. 

Hic  est  rotulus  militum  Willelmi  Comitis  Gloucestriae 
in  Kent :  — 

Willelmus  filius  Hamonis,  iij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Willelmus  filius  Rocelini,10  j  militis  feodum. 
Osbertus  11  Vitdeneres,12  j  militis  feodum. 
Wimundus,18  iiij  milites. 


1  difforciat,  L.  N. 

2  de,  L.  N. 

3  Anyod,  L.  N. 

4  Buckingehamscira,  L.  N. 

5  Walkelinus ,  L.  N. 

6  iif.  partis,  L.  N. 

"  In  Essexa  is  referred  to  the 
preceding  entry  in  the  MS. 

8  Middelsexa,  L.  N.  This  also  I 
is  referred  to  the  preceding  entry  i 
in  the  MS. 

9  The  return  of  the  Archbishop  | 


of  Canterbury’s  knights  follows  here 
in  L.  N. 

10  Bocelini.  afterwards  altered  to 
Rocelini,  in  MS. ;  Boselini,  L.  N. 

11  Osberti,  L.  N.  In  the  MS. 
the  scribe  has  appended  feodum  to 
the  preceding  entry,  and  treated 
Osbertus  as  beginning  a  fresh 
entry. 

12  Oit.  deniers,  L.  N. 

13  Wimundi,  L.  N.  The  same  mis¬ 
reading  is  repeated  here  in  the  MS, 


A.D.  1165. 


i 


Fo.  83  d. 


190 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


a.d.  nee.  Kent — cont. 

Eustacius  in  Morewithe,1  ij  milites. 

Anfridus2  de  Dovra,  dimidium  militem. 

Rogerus  filius  Herleini,3  j  militis  feodum. 

Hugo  4  de  Crevequer,5  j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Camberville,6  dimidium  militem. 
Radulfus  de  Bella  Aqua,  dimidium  militem. 

Vitalis  filius  Osberti,  tertiam  partem  militis. 

Rualo  de  Valoines,7  iij  milites  et  dimidium  cum 
Godseldo.8 

Galfridus  de  Tiskeseia,  ij  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Alteham,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Rabeli,  j  militem. 


Carta  Danielis  de  Crevequer.5 

Isti  sunt  milites  Danielis  de  Crevequer,5  feodati  de 
suo  veteri  feodo  : — 

Helte9  filius  Ricardi,  iij  milites  et  dimidium  et 
vjtam  io  partem. 

Bartholomaeus  filius  Julianae,  j  militem  et  dimidium 
et  vjtaml°  partem  j  11  militis. 

Fulco  Folet,  j  militem  et  dimidium  et  vjam  1(1 
partem. 

Willelmus  de  Eineford,12  j  militem. 

Clemens  de  Sidingia,  j  militem. 

Lucas  filius  Gerardi,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  Parforere,  tertiam  partem  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Tikeseia,13  tertiam  partem  militis. 

Robertus  de  Exonia,14  tertiam  partem  militis. 


1  Eustachius  de  Mnrewrthe,  L.N. 

2  Anfridus,  L.  N. 

3  Herloini,  L.  N. 

4  Feodum  Hugonis,  L.  N.  The 
scribe  has  here  repeated  his  error. 

5  Crievequer,  L.  N. 

6  Cambrewelle,  L.  N. 

7  Ruallo  de  Valoniis,  L.  N. 


8  Godsoldo,  L.  N. 

9  Sic  in  MS. ;  Hello,  L.  N. 

10  sextam,  L.  N. 

11  unius ,  L.  N. 

12  Einesford,  L.  N. 

13  Thikeseia,  L.  N. 

14  O.veneia,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


191 


Kent — cont. 

Praeter  hos  clamat  tenere  duos  milites  quos  dominus 
Rex  tenet  in  manu  1  sua : — 

Radulfus  Grassus,2  j  militem. 

Thomas  de  Nesindenia,  j  militem. 

Et  istos  duos  milites  habuerunt  sui  antecessores  in 
manu  sua  et  sunt  de  suo  veteri  feodo. 

Item,  praeter  hos  praedictos,3  Daniel  de  Crevequer4 
habet  hos  milites  feodatos  de  suo  dominio  : — 

Nicholaus  5  de  Kent,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Stephanas  de  Starkestede,  dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  de  Fresneia,*3 7  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  Dapifer,  iiijor  partes  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Bronfeld,  iiijtam  7  partem  militis. 

Carta  Hugonis  de  Dovra. 

Henrico  Dei  gratia  Regi  Angi  orum,  Duci  Norman - 
norum  et  Aquitannorum,  Comiti  Andegavorum,  Hugo  de 
Dovra  s  suus  fidelis  salutem 9  et  servitium. 

Haec  sunt  nomina  militum  meorum  de  veteri  feffa- 
mento 10  in  Kent  sicut  per  breve  vestrum  mihi  man¬ 
dastis  : — 

Willelmus  filius  Radulfi,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  fi li  as  Aiulfi,  ij  11  milites. 

Petrus  de  Werlinges,  j  militem. 

Hugo  Juvenis,  j  militem. 

Eustacius  12  de  Hersta,  j  militem. 

Elias  de  Silinghalde,13  dimidium  militem. 


1  in  sua  manu,  L.  N. 

2  Crassus,  L.  N. 

3  prcescriptos,  L.  N. 

4  Crieve.qu.er,  L.  N. 

5  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 

6  Frenneia,  L.  N. 

7  Bronfclde,  quartam. — L.  N. 


8  Dovera,  L.  N. 

9  salutes  et  servitia,  L.  N. 

10  fef' amento,  L.  N. 

11  dicos,  L.  N. 

12  Fustachius,  L.  N. 

13  Sillighalde,  L.  N, 


192 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


a.d.  1166.  Kent — cont. 

Robertas  filius  Willelmi  filii  Galant[is],  dimidium 
militem. 

Hamo  filius  Osberti,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Baldewini,  dimidium  militem. 
Egnulfus 1  de  Apetone,  j  militem. 

Osbertus  de  Hucham,  j  militem. 

Hervicus  de  Turneby,2  dimidium  militem. 

Summa — xj  milites  et  dimidium ;  et  super  dominium 
meum  de  novo  feffamento,3  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Willelmus  filius  Radulfi,  unum  militem.4 


Carta  Willelmi  de  Abbrincis.5 

Haec  sunt  nomina  militum  Willelmi  de  Albrincis  5  in 
Kancia  6: — 

Willelmus  de  Auberville 7  tenet  de  me  feoda  iiijor 
militum  et  dimidii. 

Willelmus  de  Cherintone,  feoda  v  militum. 

Walterus  de  Einesbroc,  feodum  j  militis. 

Osbertus  de  Haveringes,8  feodum  j  militis. 
Willelmus  filius  Durant,9  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertas  de  Beseville,10  feodum  dimidii  militis. 
Philippus  de  Veteri  Ponte,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 
Manasser  de  Whitsand,11  feodum  dimidii  militis. 
Alanus  Malesmains,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Rogerus  12  de  Valeines,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 
Willelmus  de  Ardene  et  Radulfus  de  Bee,  feodum 
dimidii  militis. 


1  Engenulfus,  L.  N. 

2  Herevicus  de  Turnebi,  L.  N. 

3  f 'eo d amento,  L.  N. 

4  I  f dete  added  in  L.  N. 

6  Abrincis,  L.  N. 

6  Cane  ia,  L.  N. 

7  Albville,  L.  N. 


8  Heveringes,  L.  N. 

9  Duranti,  L,  N. 

10  Besvilla,  L.  N. 

11  Manasserus  de  Hwitsand, 
L.  N. 

12  Reginatdus,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


193 


Kent — cont. 

De  novo  feffamento  post  mortem  1  Henrici  Regis  avi  A.D.  1166. 
Regis 1  2 ;  et  isti  milites  Willelmi  de  Albrincis  de  Kan- 
cia  3  quando  Rex  accipit  auxilium  de  militibus  xx  soli¬ 
dorum  ;  dabunt  isti  xij  solidos  et  non  amplius ;  et  si 
marcam  accipit,  viij  solidos  dabunt  ultra  Thamisiam  4  : — 

Robertus  de  Beseville,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Milers,6  feoda  ij  militum. 

Rogerus  de  Nungun,  feoda  ij  militum.6 

Philippus  de  Yeteri  Ponte,  feodum  j  militis.7 

Radulfus  de  Chaineduit,8  feodum  j  militis.7 

De  novo  feffamento 9  post  mortem  Regis  Henrici  avi 
Regis  : — 

Alexander  Tirellus,  feodum  j  militis. 

Hunfridus  de  Milliers,  feodum  j  militis  de  novo 
feffamento.10 

Fo.  84.  Summa  militum  Archiepiscopi  Cantuariensis.11 

Archiepiscopus  habet  iiijxx  et  iiijor  et  dimidium  et 
quartam  [partem]  feffatos.12 


1  De  novo  fefamento  post  tempus, 
Ij.  N. 

2  This  passage  is  obviously  cor¬ 
rupt  both  in  the  MS.  and  in  L.  N. 
Reference  to  the  Pipe  Roll  of  14  Hen. 
II.  proves  that  William  held21|  fees 
de  veteri,  and  2|  de  novo.  This  sug¬ 
gests  that  we  should  here  read  Wil- 
lelmus  de  Ardene  et  Radulfus  de 
Bee,  feodum  dimidii  militis  de  novo 
....  Regis  ;  that  a  new  paragraph 
should  begin  with  et  isti ;  and  that 
the  words  ultra  Thamisiam,  which 
are  here  wrongly  appended  to  the 
preceding  sentence,  should  form  the 
heading  to  the  second  section  of 
William’s  fief,  the  previous  section 
being  in  Kent.  The  two  remaining 
fees  de  novo  are  those  at  the  end 
of  this  Carta. 

3  Cancia,  L.  N. 

63377. 


4  Tamisiam,  L.  N. 

5  Milliers,  L.  N. 

6  duorum  militem,  L.  N. 

7  unius  militis,  L.  N. 

8  Cha induit,  L.  N. 

9  fefamento,  L.  N. 

10  In  L.N.  De  novo  fefamento 
commences  a  new  clause,  to  which 
is  appended  the  entry  Robertus  de 
Beseville,  dimidium  feodum.  In 
the  MS.  Qut  supra )  de  novo  feffa- 
mento  is  connected  with  the  entry 
preceding  it,  and  the  entry  Ro¬ 
bertus  de  Beseville  is  inserted  on 
an  erasure  higher  up.  L.  N.  adds 
here  Summa  xxiiij  milites. 

11  Archiepiscopatus  Cantuarice, 
L.  N. ;  but  see  supra,  p.  189,  note  9. 

12  Archiepiscopus  Cantuariensis 
habet  iiiixx  milites  et  iiij  et  dimidium 
et  quartam  partem  militis.  L.^T. 

N 


194 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Kent — cont. 

Summa  militum  Abbatis  Sancti  Augustini 
Cantuari,®.1 

Abbas  Sancti  Augustini  habet  xv  milites  feffatos. 


Carta  Walkelini  Mamignot.2 

Robertus  de  Turneham  tenet  cie  eo  feoda  iij  militum. 
Henri cus  de  Fillgeriis,3  feoda  iij  militum. 

Gilbertus  de  Hachesham,4  feoda  iiij  militum. 

Robertus  de  Puentone,5  ij  feoda  militum. 

Alanus  VicecomeS^Pj  feodum  militis. 

Simon  de  Dentone,  ij  feoda  militum. 

Michael  de  Codeham,  ij  feoda  militum. 

>Baldewinus  Viscard 7  et  Willelmus  filius  Roberti, 
feoda  ij  militum. 

Radulfus  de  Noers,8  feodum  j  militis. 

Radulfus  filius  Willelmi,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Hugo  Lupus,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Ada  Ruffus,9  dimidium  militem. 

Nicholaus,10  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Hay,11  dimidium  militem. 

Alexander  de  Bertone,12  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Donetrop,13  j  militem. 


1  The  rubric  is  omitted  in  L.  N., 
and  this  entry  follows  the  Arch¬ 
bishop’s  return  without  a  break, 
as Abbas  de  Sancto  Augustino 
Cantuarice,  xv  milites. 

2  Written  on  an  erasure  ;  Wal- 
c[hclini ]  Maminot,  L.  N.,  which 
here  inserts  Here  est  baron ia  Wal- 
ch  [elint]  Maminot. 

3  Fulgeriis,  L.  N. 

4  Gilebertus  de  Hacchesham, 

L.  N. 


5  Puinlone,  L.  N. 

0  Originally  written  LTsefurd] 
and  altered  subsequently  to  Vice- 
comes.  1  d  L.  N.  St/mon  is  entered 
before  Alanus. 

7  Wiscard,  L.  N. 

8  Nuers,  L.  N. 

9  Rufus,  L.  N. 

10  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 

11  Hai,  L.  N. 

12  Bertona,  L.  N. 

13  Dunetrop,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


195 


Kent — cont. 

Robertus  Brito,  dimidium  militem.  A.n.  1166. 

Herbertus  1  Brito,  dimidium  militem. 

Summa — xxvij  milites. 

Et  de  noviter  feodatis  post  mortem  Regis  Henrici : — 

Stephanus  de  Haya,2  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Alanus  de  Cast[ello],  iiijtam  3  partem  j  militis. 

Hugo  Clericus,  iiijtam  3  partem  militis. 

Et  suum  dominium  quietum. 

Carta  Walteri  de  Meduana. 

Henrico  Dei  gratia  Regi  Anglorum,  carissimo  domino 
suo,  Walterus  de  Meduana  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Notum  sit  vobis  quod  anno  et  die  in  quo  Rex  Henricus 
avus  vester  vivus  et  mortuus  fuit,  tenuit  Galfridus 
Tallebot4  in  capite  de  illo  xx  milites,6  quos  gratia 
vestri  de  vobis  modo  teneo,6  scilicet :  — 

Manasser  7  de  Danmartin,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Cloville,  iij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Sancto  Claro,  ij  milites. 

Johannes  de  Sancto  Claro,  ij  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Oteringeberge,  ij  milites. 

Henricus  de  Haningesfeld,8  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Elyas  le  Terrer,9  j  militem. 

Reginaldus  de  Ginges,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Berdestaple,  j  militem. 

Hamo  de  Scottot,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Lodesdone,10  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Swanescampe,11  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Geroldi,  dimidium  militem. 


1  Hcrehertus,  L.  N. 

1  Haia,  L.  N. 

3  quartam,  L.  N. 

4  Talebot,  L.  N. 

5  milites  omitted  in  L.  N. 

*  modo  de  vobis  teneo,  L.  N. 


‘  Manasserus,  L.  N. 

8  Haningefelde,  L.  N. 
u  Helyas  le  Terrier ,  L.  N. 

10  Ludesdune,  L.  N. 

11  Swaneschampe,  L.  N. 

N  2 


196 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Kent — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Waringus  de  Haningesfeld,1  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Hurtesville,2  dimidium  militem. 

De  novo  feffamento  in  tempore  Regis  Stepliani : — 

Willelmus  de  Gernaco,3  tenet  de  dominio  meo  di¬ 
midium  militem  unde  nullum  servitium  habeo. 

Radulfus  de  Cloville,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  Hangurnerus,4  dimidium  militem. 

Petrus  de  Toreigny5  tenet  viij  libratas  de  dominio 
meo  unde  nullum  servitium  habeo. 

Ricardus  Giffard  tenet  Lodestone 6  meum  dominium, 
manerium  quod  valet  xxvZ.,  unde  nullum  servitium 
habeo. 

Henricus  filius  Geroldi  tenet  Ecclesse 7  meum  mane¬ 
rium,  quod  valet  xiiijh,  unde  nullum  habeo  servitium.8 

Super  hos  iiijor  milites  qui  has  praedictas  terras  tenent, 
et  super  meum  dominium  quod  mihi  remanet,  debeo 
vobis  facere  servitium  ix  militum.9 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Ros. 

Hoc 10  est  de  veteri  feodo  Willelmi  de  Ros  : — 

Rogerus  de  Maleville  11  tenet  de  eo  feodum  j  militis. 

Galfridus  Mala  Terra,  feodum  j  militis. 

Thomas  Morin,  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Helintone,  feodum  j  militis. 

Johannes  de  Hacrise,  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Wicham,  feodum  j  militis. 

Ranulfus  de  Ses,12  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Tantum  habet  de  veteri  feodo,  scilicet,  vj  milites  et 
dimidium. 


1  Haningefelde,  L.  N. 

2  Hurtwelle ,  L.  N. 

1  Gornaco,  L.  N. 

4  Hagurnerus,  L.  N. 

3  Torenni,  L.  N. 

6  Lodesdone,  L.  N. 

"  Eclesse,  L.  N. 


8  servitium,  habeo,  L.  N. 

9  Valete  added  in  L.  N. 

10  Hac  in  MS. 

11  Malavilla,li.  N. 

12  Set  altered  to  Ses  in  MS. ;  St., 
L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


197 


Kent — cont. 


Hoc  est  de  novo  feodo  suo  quod  fecit  de  suo  do¬ 
minio  : — 

Manasser  1  Danmartin  2  debet  servitium  j  militis. 
Summa  est  feodorum  ;  vij  milites,  unde  Willelmus  de 
Ros  debet  servitium  domino  Regi.3 


Carta  Walteri  filii  Helte. 


Carissimo  domino  suo,  Henrico  Regi  Anglornm, 
Walterus  filius  Helte  salutem.  Sciatis  me  non  habere 
nisi  tres  milites  f effati, 4  sed  post  obitum  Henrici  Regis, 
cuidam  parentum  meorum,5  pro  suo  servitio,  dedi  quintam 
partem  militis  de  meo  dominio. 


Robertus  Bardulf 6  tenet  feodum  j  militis  in  Hou. 

Johannes  de  Neville  tenet  in  Scorene. 

Comes  7  de  Alba  Maria  tenet  in  Braburne  et  in  Sut- 
tone  et  Kemesinges  per  servitium  iij  militum  cum  Foles- 
ham  in  hundredo  de  Stokes. 

Reginaldus  de  Cornhulle  tenet  in  Kingesdone  feodum 
j  militis. 

Joelendus  de  Neville  tenet  feodum  j  militis  in  Some. 

Haeredes  Ingeram  Patrik  tenent  feoda  xv  militum.8 

Thomas  de  Moristone  debet  servitium  militis 9  de 


Mideltone.10 


1  Manasserus,  L.  N. 

2  Damnartin,  L.  N. 

3  Domino  suo  Degi,  L.  N. 

4  Sic  iu  MS.  ;  feofati ,  L.  N. 

5  meorum  parentum,  L.  N. 

8  Bardulfus,  L.  N. 

7  B[aldwinus~\  Comes,  L.  N. 

8  Abbas  Sancti  Augustini  tenet 


feoda  xv  militum  inserted  here  in 
L.  N.  This  suggests  that  its  com¬ 
piler  overlooked  the  previous  entry 
owing  to  its  not  being  rubricated. 


9  debet  j  militem,  L.  N. 


10  Middeltone,  L.  N.  This  and  the 
seven  preceding  entries  are  a  later 
addition  in  L.N. 


198 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  1166.  SURREIA. 

Carta  Abbatis  i  Certeseia:. 

Venerabili  carissimo  domino  sno  Henrico  Dei  gratia 
Anglorum  Regi,  Duci  Normannorum  et  Aquitannorum, 
Comiti  Andegavorum,  frater  A[lmaricus]  indignus  mi¬ 
nister  Certeseise  salutem  et  orationes. 

Sciat  diligentia  vestra,  carissime  pater  et  domine,  quod 
Abbatia  Certesise  debet  ad  servitium  vestrum  tres  milites 
secundum  quod  scire  possumus. 

Feodum  j  militis  tenet  Walterus  de  Cheneto.2 

Philippus  de  Tanga,3  feodum  j  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Watheville4  feodum  tertii  militis. 

Ace  de  Perifrith,  Robertus  de  Meldone,5  Mauricius  de 
Troteswrthe,6  Stephanus  de  Bend[inges],  Radulfus  de 
Sancto  Albano  tenent  feodum  quartum. 

Alios  non  habet  aliquos  sicut  ipse  recognoscere 7 
potest.  Valete  in  Christo. 

STJTHSEXA.8 

Aianus  Basset  tenet  Wokinges9  et  Mapeldorwelle 10 
per  j  feodum  de  dono  Regis  Ricardi. 

Carta  Episcopi11  Cicestrensis. 

Henrico  Dei  gratia  Regi  Anglorum  et  Duci  Norman¬ 
norum  et  Aquitannorum,  Comiti  Andegavorum,  caris- 


1  Abbatia,  L.  N. 

2  Chenneio,  L.  N. 

3  Tonga,  L.  N. 

4  Wateville,  L.  N. 

5  Mealdone,  L.  N. 

6  Trotteswrthe ,  L.  N. 

7  cognoscere,  L.  N. 

8  Sutsexa  ;  Sussexa,  L.  N.  This 
entry  is  erroneously  inserted  under 
Sussex,  Woking  being  in  Surrey 
and  Mapledurwell  in  Hants.  The 


scribe  must  have  suppose  !  that  the 
rubric  referred  to  this  entry.  This 
entry  is  printed  in  Dugdale  as  part 
of  the  Abbot’s  Charter.  In  L.  N. 
the  Carta  of  Richerus  de  Aquila  is 
inserted  here,  but  cancelled  with  the 
note  “  quia  in  Susexa  in  secundo 
folio.” 

9  Wokkiitges,  L.  N. 

10  Mapel  Durewelle,  L.  N. 

11  Episcopatus,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


199 


Suthsexa — cont. 

simo  domino  suo  Nicholaus,1  Cicestrensis  Episcopus,  A.D.  1166. 
salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Domine,  sicut  mihi  pnecepistis,  distincte  hoc  scripto 
feodamenta2  militum  Ecclesite  meae  vobis  enumeravi. 

Walterus  de  Cliftona  habet  feodum  j  militis 3 4  et 
dimidii. 

Robertus  de  Recham,1'  Anketil,  Willelmus  filius  Alardi, 
et  Wiardus  tenent  j  feodum  5 *  militis. 

Radulfus  Fichet,  Malgerus,  Ricardus  de  Heram,3  et 
Willelmus  de  Lancinges  tenent7  feodum  j  militis. 

Ernaldus8  Pincerna,  Ricardus  filius  Odonis,  Willelmus 
filius  Radulfi,  tenent  feodum  j  militis. 

Jordanus  de  Hellam,9  Alvredus, 10  Willelmus  Parcertes, 

Ricardus  Murdac, 11  Willelmus  de  Selesia,12  Willelmus 
Falterellus,  Willelmus  filius  Siwardi,  Henricus  Palme- 
rius,13  Radulfus  de  Eoverel,14  Radulfus  de  Dena,  tenent 
j  feodum  militis,  et  superest  dimidia  virgata. 

Oliverus  de  Westringes,15  Robertus  de  Dene,13  Ernaldus 
de  Hanefeld,17  tenent  feodum  j  militis. 

Anfridus18  de  Feri nges,  Robertus  de  Orham,  Simon  de 
Petraponte,  Gerin19  de  Colewrtha,20  tenent  feodum  j  militis. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti,21  Robertus  Peverel,22  Willel- 


1  Hilarius,  L.  N.  and  Original 
Return. 

2  fef amenta,  L.  N. ;  feffamenta, 
O.  R. 

3  unum  feoduw  militis,  O.  R.  This 
formula  is  used  throughout  O.  R. 

4  Retham,  L.  N. 

5  unum  feodum,  L.  N.,  O.  R. 

G  Erham,  L.  N. 

7  tenet,  L.  N. 

8  Arnoldus,  O.  R. 

9  Islesham,  L.  N.,  O.  R. 

10  Alueredus,  O.  R. 

11  Mordac,  O.  R. 

12  Illegible  in  L.  N. 

13  Palmarius,  L.  N.,  O.  R. 


14  Deverel,  L.  N.  ;  Deverellis, 
O.  R. 

15  Wistringes,  O.  R. 

16  Dent^ona'],  L.  N.,  O.  R. 

17  Ernaldus  de  Hanfeld,  L.  N. 
(which  begins  a  new  paragraph 
with  this  name)  ;  Ernoldus  de 
Hanfelda,  O.  R. 

18  AmJridus,  L.  N. 

'9  Gervasius,  L.  N. ;  Gert;[astw«J 
de,  O.  R. 

20  Colewerda,  O.  R. 

21  Herebertus  Jilius  Hereberti , 
L.  N.,  O.  R. 

22  Peverellus,  O.  R. 


200 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Suthsexa — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  mus  filius  Johannis,  Johannes  de  Bosco,  tenent  feodum 
j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Almodentone,1  Robertus  de  Turbiwica,2 
Franceis,  Willelmus  filius  Nigelli,  Willelmus  de  Hare- 
flet,  tenent  feodum  j  militis. 

Hgec  sunt  ix  3 4  feoda  militum  et  dimidium,  et  superest 
ixa4  pars  militis  quam  tenet  Johannes  de  Binda,5  et 
hgec  sunt  de  veteri  feffamento.6  De  novo7  autem 
feffamento G  tenet  Robertus  de  Dentona  feodum  j  militis 
dimidia  hida  minus. 

In  Bixla  sunt  decem  hidge,8  quas  antiquitus  tenebat 
Episcopus  Cicestrensis  in  dominio  suo.  Comes  autem 
Augensis  auferens  terram  illam  Episcopo  et  Ecclesiae 
feffavit 9 *  inde  iiijor  10  milites.  Episcopus  et  Ecclesia  re¬ 
cuperaverunt  de  terra  illa  v 11  hidas  in  dominium,  et 
duo  milites  tenent  alias  v 11  hidas  de  Episcopo  pro 
ij  feodis.12  Valete. 

Carta  Comitis  Arundelle.13 

Dominus  noster  Rex  Henricus,  quadam  contentione 
quae  surrexit  inter  milites  de  honore  de  Arundel  de 
exercitu  quodam  de  Walliis,  elegit  iiij  14  milites  de  honore, 
de  melioribus  et  legalioribus  et  antiquioribus,  scilicet, 
Hunfridum  15  de  Sarcillis  et  Radulfum  filium  Bruni  et 


1  Almodintona,  L.  N.,  O.  R. 

2  Trubbewica,  L.  N. ;  Trubewica, 
O.  R. 

3  novem,  O.  R. 

4  nona,  O.  R. 

5  Brada,  L.  N.,  O.  R. 

6  fef amento,  L.  N. 

7  In  L.  N.  De  novo  commences 
a  fresh  paragraph,  but  in  O.  R. 
there  is  no  break  ;  dimidium  feo¬ 
dum  militis,  O.  R. 

8  “  Bexelei  tenet  Osbemus  de 

“  Comite  [deOw].  T.  R.  E.  tenuit 

“  Episcopus  Alricus  quia  est  de 


“  Episcopatu,  et  post  tenuit  donec 
“  Rex  W.  dedit  Comiti  castellariam 
“  de  Hastinges.  T.  R.  E.,etmodo, 
“  se  defendebat  pro  xx  [stc]  hidis.” 
Domesday,  I.  18.  See  also  infra 
the  Count  of  Eu’s  Carta. 

9  fefav it,  L.  N. 

10  quatuor,  O.  R. 

11  quinque,  L.  N.,  O.  R. 

12  duobus  feodis,  L.  N. 

13  Comitis  de  Arundel,  L.  N. 

14  quatuor,  L.  N. 

15  Hunfridum,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


201 


Suthsexa — cent. 


Willelmum  de  Fauderches  1  et  Petrum  de  Hamtona,2  et  A.D.  1166. 
fecit  eos  recognoscere  servitia 3 *  militum  de  honore,  et 
super  legalitatem  et  sacramenta  eorum  inde  neminem 
audire  voluit.  Fuit1  hsec  recognitio  eorum  : — 

Peteswrthe,5  xxij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Garinges,  xj  milites. 

Polemberg,6 7  iij  milites. 

Philippus  de  Belmes,  iij  milites. 

Alanus  de  Dunstanville,  viij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Faleisa,  v  milites. 

Stephanus,  ij  milites. 

Stokes,  ij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Calceo,  iij  milites. 

Avenel/  v  milites. 

Morin  de  Chitehurst,  j  militem. 

Trieferda,  j  militem. 

Sunewrtha,8  j  militem. 

Halnat,9  xij  milites. 

Mesliers,  j  militem. 

Pantulfus,  j  militem. 

Savaricus,  iij  milites. 

Uo.  85.  Et  Rex  Henricus  dedit  de  suo  dominio  quod  Comes 
attornavit  ad  servitium  militare,  scilicet : — 

Terram  Reginaldi  Harengi,10  pro  feodo  j  militis. 

Terram 11  Ranulfi  de  Broc,  pro  feodo  dimidii  militis. 

Terram  Manasser  Aguillun,12  pro  feodis  ij  militum. 

Terram  Alani  filii  Conani,  pro  feodo  j  militis. 

Terram  Alvredi  de  Cumerai,  pro  feodo  j  militis. 

Terram  Roberti  de  Praeries,13  pro  feodo  j  militis. 


1  Favarches,  L.  N. 

5  Hantona,  L.  N. 

5  servitium,  L.  N. 

*  Fuit  autem ,  L.  N. 

5  Pettewrtha ,  L.  N. 

8  Poleberga,  L.  N. 

7  Avenellus,  L.  N. 

*  Sunnewi  tha,  L.  N 


9  H ulnae,  L.  N. 

10  Harangi,  L.  N. 


11  Et  terram,  for  this  and  the 
seven  subsequent  entries  in  L.  N., 
where  the  first  three  are  entered 


without  any  break. 
**  Aguilun,  L.  N. 
13  Praeriu,  L.  N. 


202 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


SUTHSEXA — COnt. 

Terram  Ricardi  de  Humez,  pro  feodis  ij  militum. 

Terram  de  Fresne1  pro  feodo  j  militis. 

Et  Comes  dedit  Henrico  Hossato2 3  quandam  terram, 
pro  feodis  ij  militum. 

Et  Roberto  de  Rupe  quandam  terram,  pro  iiijta3 
parte  militis. 

Et  Willelmo  Ruffo4  quandam  terram,  pro  iiijta  3 
parte  militis. 

Comes  etiam  habuit  in  Candeura,  quae  est  in  Hamte- 
scira,  servitium  unius  militis. 

Et  sunt  xiij  qui  per  manum  Comitis  de  dominio  suo 
positi  sunt  ad  servitium  militare. 


Carta  Johannis  Comitis  de  Augo. 

Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Duci  Normannorum  et 
Aquitannorum,  Comiti  Andegavorum,  Johannes  Comes 
de  Augo  salutem. 

Sciatis  quos  habeo  de  veteri  feffamento 5 *  de  tempore 
Regis  Henrici  avi  vestri  in  rapo  Has'inges  lvj  G  milites  ; 
sed  lx 7  milites  in  eodem  rapo  habere  solebat  pater 
meus  tempore  Regis  Henrici  avi  vestri ;  de  quibus  nunc 
habet  iiijor  milites  Episcopus  Cicestrensis  unde  habetis 
servitium. 

Horum  lvj  militum  tenentium  in  praedicto  rapo  de 
veteri  feffamento  5  nomina  sunt  haec  : — 

Hunfridus  de  Willecheres8  tenet  vij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Hekingham  9  vij  milites. 

Mathaeus  de  Baelun,  x  milites. 

Thomas  de  Sancto  Leodegaro,  iiij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Bodiham,  iiij  milites. 


1  Frei&ne,  L.  N. 

2  Hosato,  L.  N. 

3  quarta,  L.  N. 

4  Rufo,  L.  N. 

'°  See  supra  the  Bishop  of  Chi¬ 

chester’s  Carta  ;  fef amento,  L.  N. 


6  quinquaginta  sex ,  L.  N. 

7  sexaginta,  L.  N. 

8  Hunfridus  de  Wilecheres,  L.  N. 
8  Akingeham,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


203 


SUTHSEXA —  COTlt. 

Hurste  de  Warbertone,  v  milites. 

Gilbertus  1  de  Bailolio,  iij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Ricarville,  x  milites. 

Reginaldus  de  Oseburnham,2  ij  milites. 

Walterus  Morlay;3  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Wikesbale,4  j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Chekenora,  j  militem. 

Et  praeter  hos  milites,  habeo  super  dominium  meum 
sex  milites  et  dimidium  quorum  nomina  sunt  haec  : — 
Alvredus  de  Saucto  Martino,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Strabo,  j  militem. 

Robertus  dei  Broc,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Bosco,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Lancinges,  dimidium  militem. 

Daniel  de  Crevequer.5 
Rogerus  de  Freham. 

Robertus  de  Hastinges,  dimidium  militem. 

De  novo  feffamento6  nullum  militem  f effatum 6  habeo. 


Carta  Roberti  Peverel. 

E£o  Robertus  Peverel  et  Normannus  de  Normanville 
tenemus  feodum  j  7  militis  de  Rege  in  capite  in  Suth- 
sexa,8  unde  ego  Robertus  facio  Regi  duas  partes  j  7 
militis  et  Normannus 9  iijam.10 


Carta  Riccheri  de  Aquila.11 

Dilectissimo  domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum, 
Richerus  de  Aquila  salutem  et  fidelia  servitia. 


1  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

2  Osseburneham,  L.  N. 

3  Morlai,  L.  N. 

4  Wikeshulle,  L.  N. 

5  Sic  in  MS. ;  Daniel  de  Crie- 

vequer,  Rogerus  de  Frean,  L.  N., 

where  these  two  names  are  placed 

between  Robertus  del  Broc  and 

Willelmus  de  Bosco. 


6  feofamento ;  feofatum,  L.  N. 

7  unius,  L.  N. 

8  Sussex  a,  L.  N. 

9  ipse  Normannus,  L.  N. 

10  tertiam  partem,  L.  N. 

11  This  rubric  is  written  on  an 
erasure  in  the  MS. 


204- 


liber  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Suthsexa — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Sciatis  quod  habeo  feoda  xxxv  militum  et  dimidii,  et 
tot  feocla  habui  die  et  anno  quo  Rex  Henricus  avus 
vester  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus.  Nec  post  illum  diem 
aliquem  feffavi.  De  hiis  vero  : — 

Ricardus  filius  Willelmi  tenet  feoda  xv  militum. 

Radulfus  de  Dene,1  vj  milites. 

Willelmus  Malet,  iiij  feoda  militum. 

Willelmus  filius  Ricardi,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  Malfed,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Akingeham,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Horstude,  ij  milites. 

Andreas  de  Alurikestone,2  dimidium  militem. 

Carta  Comitis  Warenjnle.3 4 

Comes  Warennse  tenet  feoda  lx  militum. 


SUTHAMTESCIRA. 

Carta  Episcopi  Wintoniensis. 

Isti  milites  tenuerunt  de  feodo  Episcopatus  Wintoni¬ 
ensis  tempore  Regis  Henri ci ;  et  modo  tenent 1  de  eodem 
Episcopatu  : — 

Johannes  de  Sancto  Johannc  tenuit  feoda  ij  mi¬ 
litum,  et  modo  tenet  Reginaldus  de  Sancto 
Walerico. 

Milo  Constabularius  tenuit  feodum  unius  militis, 
et  modo  tenet  Humfridus  de  Boun.5 

Philippus  de  Braosa  tenet 6  feoda  ij  militum,  et 
tertius  miles  fuit  in  calumpnia,  et  modo  tenet 
Willelmus  de  Braosa  totum  tenementum  pro 
ij  7  militibus. 


1  Dena,  L.  N. 

2  Alurichestone,  L.  N. 

3  This  rubric  is  omitted  in  L.  N. 

4  tenenent  in  MS. 


5  Bohun,  L.  N. 

6  ten[uii],  L.  N. 

7  duobus,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


205 


SUTHAMTESCIRA — COUt. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti1  Camerarii  senioris  A-1)- 11G6- 
tenuit  feoda  ij  militum,  et  modo  tenet  Her¬ 
bertus  2  filius  ejus. 

Willelmus  filius  Rogeri  tenuit  feoda  iiij  militum, 
et  modo  tenet  Henri cus  filius  ejus. 

Galfridus  de  Covestone  tenuit  feoda  iij  militum,  et 
modo  tenet  Galfridus  filius  Adam. 

Galfridus  de  Wall[ibus]  tenuit  feoda  iij  militum, 
et  modo  tenet  Robertus  de  Flury.3 

Baldewinus  de  Cumba  tenuit  iij  milites,4  et  modo 
tenet  Hugo  de  Flury.3 

Wakelinus  5  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et  modo  filia 
Wakelini.6 

Willelmus  filius  Gesardi 7  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et 
modo  tenet  Wakelinus5  Harengus. 

Walterus  filius  Ricardi  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et 
modo  tenet 8  Comes  Ricardus. 

Robertus  Oisel  tenuit  et  tenet  feodum  j  9  militis. 

Robertus  de  Siflewast 10  tenuit  feoda  ij  militum,  et 
modo  tenet  Willelmus  filius  ejus. 

Elias 11  de  Almenill  tenuit  feoda  ij  militum,  et 
modo  tenet8  Radulfus  de  Waterville.12 

Walterus  do  Tigeburne 13  tenuit  feoda  ij  militum, 
et  modo  Rogerus  filius  ejus  j 9  militis  et  di¬ 
midii. 

Audoenus  tenuit  feoda  ij  militum,14  et  modo  Robertus 
Norensis. 

Godefridus  de  Andeleiga 15  tenuit  feoda  iij  militum, 


1  Heiebertus  filius  Hereberti, 
L.  N. 

2  Herebertus,  L.  N. 

3  Fluri,  L.  N. 

*  feoda  iij  militum,  L.  N. 

5  Walkelinus,  L.  N. 

6  Walkelini,  L.  N. 

7  Altered  in  MS. ;  Gerardi,  L.  N. 


8  tenet  omitted  L.  N. 

9  unius,  L.  N. 

10  Sifflewast,  L.  N. 

11  Helyas,  L..  N. 

12  Waltervilla,  L.  N. 

13  Thikeburne ,  L.  N. 

14  dimidii  militis,  L.  N. 

15  Andelia,  L.  N. 


206 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


SUTHAMTESCIRA — COUt. 

A.D.  1166.  et  modo  Walterus  filius  ejus  tenet  feoda  iiij 

militum. 

Henricus  de  Subertone  tenuit  feoda  v  militum,  et 
modo  tenet  Henricus,  secundus  filius  ejus.1 

Willelmus  de  Extone  tenuit  feodum  dimidii  militis, 
et  Willelmus  tilius  Gilberti 2  modo  tenet. 

Galfridus  de  Ginges  tenuit  feoda  ij  militum,  et  modo 
tenet  Galfridus  de  Ginges  feoda  ij  militum. 

Walterus  pater  Waleram3  tenuit  feodum  j  militis, 
et  modo  Walterus  filius  Waleram. 

Robertus  Pincerna  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et  modo 
Willelmus  Hotot ;  et  ex  alia  parte  tenet  idem 
Willelmus  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Hugo  de  Tistede  tenuit  feoda  iij  4  militum,  et  modo 
tenet 5  Ricardus  6  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Robertus  Giffard  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et  modo 
Gerardus  7  filius  ejus. 

Robertus  Mauduit  tenuit  feodum  j  militis  et  modo 
Robertus  de  Ponte  Arche. 

Willelmus  Peverel  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et  modo 
Robertus  dei  Broc. 

Jocelinus  de  Eneford8  tenuit  feodum  dimidii  mi¬ 
litis,  et  modo  Simon  filius  ejus. 

Hugo  de  Fiscano 9  tenuit  feoda  iiij  militum,  et 
modo  Willelmus  iij  milites. 

Wakelinus 10  de  Hichelle 11  feoda12  ij  militum,  et 
modo  Robertus  filius  ejus. 

Galfridus  de  Kancia13  tenet  feoda  iiij  militum. 

Henricus  de  Port  tenuit  feoda  ij  militum,  et  modo  14 
Johannes  de  Port. 


1  filius  ejus,  j  militem,  L.  N. 

2  Gileberti,  L.  N. 

3  Walerami,  L.  N. 

4  trium,  L.  N. 

tenet  omitted  L.  N. 

6  Ricardus  filius  ejus,  L.  N. 

7  Girardus,  L.  N. 


8  Enecforde,  L.  N. 

9  Fiscanno,  L.  N. 

10  Walkelinus,  L.  N. 
u  Hickelle,  L.  N. 

12  tenuit  feoda,  L.  N. 

13  Cantia,  L.  N. 

14  modo  tenet,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


207 


SUTHAMTESCIRA — COTlt. 

Petrus  Camerarius  tenuit  feoda  iij  militum,  et  A.D.  1166. 
modo  Galfridus  filius  ejus. 

Robertus  de  Columbariis  tenuit  feodum  j  militis, 
et  modo  filius  ejus. 

Norgodus  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et  modo  Henricus 
filius  ejus. 

Willelmus  de  Machinis x  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et 
adhuc  tenet. 

Anselmus  de  Rotomago1  2  tenuit  feodum  j  militis, 
et  modo  filius  Johannis  Marscalli.3 

Ailricus  de  Orchaddone 4  tenuit  feodum  j  militis, 
et  modo  Ricardus  filius  ejus. 

Willelmus  Giffard  3  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et  modo 
Walterus  Giffard.5 

Radulfus  filius  Roberti  ten[et]  feodum  dimidii 
militis. 


Carta  Abbatis  de  Hida.6 

Summa  militum  Abbatiae  de  Hida. 

Abbas  de  Hida  habet  de  veteri  feffamento 7  xx  milites. 

Carta  Johannis  de  Port. 

Henrico  Regi  Anglorum  venerabili  domino  suo, 
Johannes  de  Port  salutem  et  fidelia  servitia. 

Quia  ex  parte  vestra  mihi  jussum  est  quod  de  veteri 
feffamento 7  et  de  novo,  tenementi  mei,  quod  ad  vos 
respicit,  vos  certum  faciam  quot  et  quos  milites  teneam, 
per  hoc  praesens  scriptum  inde  veritatem  vobis  mando  : — 
Herbertus  filius  Herberti,8  feodum  j  militis. 
Robertus  de  Pontearche,  v  milites. 


1  Machinnis,  L.  N. 

2  Anselinus  de  Rothomago,  L.  N. 

3  Marescalli,  L.  N. 

4  Orchardun,  L.  N. 

5  Giffardus,  L.  N. 


6  Summa  militum  Abbatiae  de 
Hida  is  the  only  rubric  in  L.  N. 

7  fefamento,  L.  N. 

8  Herebertus  filius  Hereberti, 
L.  N. 


208 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


SUTHAMTESCIRA — COnt. 

A.D.  1166.  Mathaeus  de  Scuriis,  iiij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Dunstanville  tenet  feoda  ij  militum, 
sed  non  per  me  de  feodo  meo. 

Hugo  de  Chernet,  iij  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Avene  et  Tibesleia,  ij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Lingieure,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Anesia,  j  militem. 

Baldewinus  de  Porteseia,  ij  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Stratone,1  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Westburne,2  ij  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Humez,3j  militem,  quem  mihi  difforciat 
Ada  de  Port,  habet.4 
Willelmus  filius  Ranulfi,  ij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Braibof,5  j  militem. 

Willelmus  [6  ],  j  militem. 

Alexander  de  Heried  et  Henricus  filius  Willelmi, 
j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  P[ort]landis 6  de  Matheleiga,7  ij  mi¬ 
lites. 

Henricus  filius  Rualdi,  ij  milites. 

Alanus  de  Perci  facit  [servitium],  j  militis. 
Willelmus  de  Kingham,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Malet,  v  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Philippi,  iij  milites. 

Rogerus  filius  Tangredi 8  et  Henricus  nepos  ejus, 
ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Clahalde,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Popleshale,  j  militem. 


1  Strattone,  L.  N. 

2  Westbur[ia\ ,  L.  N. 

3  Humet,  a  later  correction  in 
L.  N. 

4  A  later  addition  in  L.  N.  Adam 
de  Port  was  the  son  of  John,  the 
1166  tenant. 

5  Braibuf,  L.  N. 

6  Sic  in  MS.  This  blank  ("like  that 


in  the  succeeding  entry  but  one) 
occurs  both  in  the  MS.  and  L.  N. 
Four  knights’  fees,  in  all,  must  be 
omitted  in  this  Carta,  for  only  51 
de  veteri  are  accounted  for,  whereas 
the  total  is  given  below  as  55 ;  and 
the  tenant  paid  on  55  in  1168. 

7  Matelega,  L.  N. 

8  Tancredi,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


209 


SUTHAMTESCIRA — COTlt. 


Willelmus  de  Pesinges,  j  militem. 
Stephaniis  de  Moristonia,  j  militem. 
Manasser 1  Arsic,  j  militem. 


A.D.  1166. 


Fo.  86.  De  novo  feffamento 2 : — 

Ada  3  de  Sancto  Manevevo,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Adae,  j  militem. 

Summa  de  veteri  feffamento 2 — lv  milites;  et  de 
novo — ij  milites. 

Carta  Willelmi  filii  Aldelin.4 * 

De  terra  quam  dominus  Rex  dedit  Willelmo  filio 
Aldelin,4  Marscallo  suo,  cum  Juliana  filia  Roberti 
Dorsnelli : — 

Baldewinus  Wiscard  6  tenet  de  veteri  feffamento 6 
feodum  j  militis  in  Essexa. 

Johannes  Gernun,  feodum  quartae  partis  j  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Aldelin  4  tenet  reliquium  7  in  domi¬ 
nio  suo  per  servitium  suum  sine  aliquo 8  servitio 
nominato,  sicut  Marscaucia  9  Regis. 


Carta  Roberti  de  Ponte  Arche. 


Ego  Robertus  de  Ponte  Arche  teneo  de  Rege  in  capite 
feodum  j  militis,  quod  tenet  de  me  Hugo  de  Cormeiles ; 
et  nullum  militem  habeo  de  novo  feffamento.10 


Rogerus  de  Sascy  tenet  1  libratas  terrae  in  Derttone 11 
et  Sumborne  per  feodum  j  militis. 


1  Manseritis,  L.  N, 

2  fefamento,  L.  N. 

3  Adam,  L.  N. 


7  reliquum,  L.  N. 

8  alio,  L.  N. 


9  de  Marescalcia,  L.  N. 


4  Aldelini,  L.  N. 

O  Wischard,  L.  N. 

8  feodamento,  L.  N, 


10  feofatum,  L.  N. 

11  Dertona,  L.  N. 


63377. 


O 


210 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


SUTHAMTESCIRA — COTlt. 

A.D.  1166.  Haeredes  Almarici  Dispensatoris  tenent  Wordi  per  j 
par  calcarum  pretii  xij  denariorum  et  terram  de  Staide 
per  servitium  dimidii  militis  de  dono  Regis  Henrici  facto 
Waltero  fratri  praedicti  Almarici.1 


DORSETE. 

Carta  Abbatis  de  Middeltgnia. 

Reverentissimo  domino  suo  Henrico  Dei  gratia  Regi 
Anglorum,  Duci  Normannorum  et  Aquitannorum,  Comiti 
Andegavorum,  A.  Ecclesiae  de  Middeltonia  minister  in¬ 
dignus  salutem  et  orationum  instantiam. 

Noverit  excellentissima  dignitas  vestra  ecclesiam 
nostram  nullum  militem  feffatum  2  nec  de  veteri  feffa- 
mento3  nec  de  novo  habere,  sed  servitia  quae  vobis 
ecclesia  nostra  debet,  de  dominio  suo  persolvit.  Con¬ 
tigit  tamen  aliquando,  ecclesia  nostra  vacante,  R[oge- 
rum]  Episcopum  Saresbiriensem  illam,  ex  mandato  Regis 
Henrici  avi  vestri,  in  custodiam  annis  v  suscepisse.  Tunc 
praedictus  Episcopus  de  quodam  tenemento  quod  tenuit 
R[obevtus]  de  Monasteriis  feodo  censuali,  scilicet  de  dua¬ 
bus  hidis,  unum  feffavit 4  militem.  De  altero  tenemento 
quod  tenuit  Willelmus  filius  Walteri  feodo  censuali, 
scilicet  de  duabas  hidis  et  dimidia,  alterum  constituit 
militem.  Postmodum  vero  bonae  memoriae  R.  praedecessore 
meo  constituto  abbate,  per  Justitiam  Regis  Henrici  et 
consilio  praefati  Episcopi  R[ogeri],  feoda  praedicta  ad 
antiquum  statum  revocata  sunt.  Et  quos  Episcopus 
constituit  milites  facti  sunt  censuarii,  et  sic  tenuerunt 
tempore  praedecessoris  mei  et  adhuc  tenent  eorum 
haeredes,  scilicet,  Willelmus  de  Monasteriis  et  Willelmus 
Brito. 


1  This  and  the  preceding  entry  3  fefamento,  L.  N. 

are  a  later  addition  in  L.  N.  A  fefavit,  L.  N. 

*  feofatum,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


211 


Dorsete — cont. 

Provideat  itaque  vestra  discretio  quid  super  hiis  vobis  AJ).  116G. 
placeat.1  Valeat  in  Christo  regalis  dignitas  vestra. 


Carta  Galfridi  2  Abbatis  de  Abbodesbiria. 

Domino  suo  Henrico  Anglorum  Regi,  Galfridus  Ahbas 
de  Abbodesbiria3  devotas  orationes  in  Christo. 

Quoniam  ita  imperastis,  innotescimus  vobis  quod 
Abbatia  de  Abbodesbiria 4  nullum  habuit  militem  anti¬ 
quitus  feffatum.5  Servitium  j  6  militis  debet  Abbatia 
de  dominio  suo.  Cum  Rogerus  Episcopus  habuit  custo¬ 
diam  Abbatiae,  duas  hidas  apud  Atrum  ad  maritandam 
quandam  neptem  7  suam  dedit  Nicbolao  8  de  Meriet,  con¬ 
tradicente  Conventu  ecclesiae. 

Hanc  terram  longo  tempore  tenuerunt  vi  ipsi  et  Hen- 
ricus  filius  eorum,  et  nullum  servitium  Ecclesiae  inde  9 
facere  voluerunt.  Ista  terra  antiquitus  reddere  solebat 
Gablum  xx  solidorum,  sicut  testatur  vestrum  regium 
scriptum.10  Ego  vero  intelligens  quod  aliter  non  potui 
recuperare  servitium  istius  terrae,  concessi  huic  Henrico 
terram  tenendam  sibi  et  heredibus  suis  faciendo  servi¬ 
tium  dimidii  militis.  Et -hoc  modo  fellavimus  11  eum  ut 
faceret  servitium  dimidii  militis  quod  debebat  Ecclesiae 
de  dominio  suo.  Quidam  autem  Abbas,  antecessor 
noster,  feffavit 12  quendam  militem  Willelmum  13  nomine 
sicut  testatur  carta  Regis  14  quam  vobis  mitto.  Valete. 


1  placet,  L.  N. 

2  Galfridi  omitted  in  L.  N. 

3  Abbodesberi,  L.  N. 

4  Abbodesbiria ,  L.  N. 

•  feofatum,  L.  N. 

6  unius,  L.  N. 

"  neptam,  L.  N. 

8  Nicolao,  L.  N. 

9  inde  omitted  in  L.  N. 

10  “Atrem  .  .  .  valet  xx  solidos,” 
Domesday,  I.  78  b. 

11  fefedavimus,  L.  N. 


n  f (favimus,  L.  N. 

13  The  service  of  this  William  is 
not  here  stated,  but  would  have 
been  given  in  the  Carta  referred  to.  • 
It  may  have  been  half  a  knight,  for 
the  Abbot  paid,  in  1168,  on  one  fee 
in  all. 

14  Rectius  Carta  ejus,  L.  N.  An 
important  variant  *  as  suggesting  that 
the  text  of  the  L.  R.  was  dictated 
to  the  scribe.  • 

o  2 


212 


UBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


I)ORSETE — COnt. 

A.D.  1166.  CARTA  ABBATIAE  DE  CeRNEL.1 

Fo.  86  d.  Jllustri  domino  suo  Regi  Anglorum,  Robertus  Cernel- 
ensis  Ecclesiae  minister  humilis  salutem  et  fidele  servi¬ 
tium. 

Sublimitati  vestrae  notificamus  quae  sunt  feoda  mili¬ 
tum  Ecclesiae  nostrae  de  tempore  Regis  Henri ci  et  qui 
milites  ea  tenent : — 

Robertus  de  Yer  tenet  feodum  j  militis  et  praeter 
hoc  hidam  et  dimidiam  unde  censum  reddere 
debet. 

Willelmus  de  Monasteriis,  feodum  j  militis. 

Alvredus  de  Lincolnia,  et  feodum  quod  Jordanus 
injuste  tenet,  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Monte  Sorel,2  et  Jordanus  de  Wetone,3 
et  Osbertus  de  Chigenota,4  et  Hunfridus 5  Ma- 
kerel,  feodum  j  militis. 

Feodum  est  j  militis6  feodum  quod  Radulfus  de 
Redpole  tenuit. 

Hugo  de  Bosco,  dimidium  feodum  militis. 

Robertus  Russel,  feodum  j  militis,  quadam  virgata 
minus,  tenet  injuste  et  contra  voluntatem  Con¬ 
ventus,  quia  nunquam  avus  suus  illud  tenuit  de 
Ecclesia,  nec  pater  suus,  nec  tenere  debet. 

Super  dominium  Ecclesiae  sunt  feoda  trium  militum 
et  dimidii  cum  tenura  Francolensium  in  villa  Cernae. 

Quisque  autem  istorum  debet  facere  w  ardam  7  ad  prae¬ 
ceptum  vestrum  apud  Castellum  de  Corfe  8  uno  mense 
per  annum,  vel  si  vobis  placuerit  habere  inde  milites 
ad  exercitum,  interim  dimissa  wardia,9  ij  milites  ad 
servitium  vestrum  10  invenient. 


1  Carta  Abbatis  Cernelensis, 
L.  N. 

*  Sorelli,  L.  N. 

5  Wettone,  L.  N. 

4  Osebertus  Chigenot,  L.  N. 

4  Humfridus,  L.  N. 

•  Feodum  est  unius  militis  is 


placed  at  the  end  of  this  entry  in 
L.  N. 

7  wardiam,  L.  N. 

8  Corf,  L.  N. 

9  guardia,  L.  N. 

10  duos  milites  ad  vestrum  servi¬ 
tium,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


213 


Dorsete — cord. 

Carta  Abbatis  de  Scireburne. 

Ricardus  filius  Hildebrant  tenet  feodum  dimidii 
militis» 

Thomas  de  Hasweia 1  tenet  feodum  militis. 

Jordanus  de  Nitherstoke,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Stokes,  vtam2  partem  militis. 

Et  isti  sunt  de  veteri  feffamento.3 

De  novo  autem  feffamento4  : — 

Simon  de  Cherda  tenet  duas  partes  militis. 
Walterus  filius  Hugonis,  vtam  2  partem  militis. 
Robertus  de  Tornecumba,  v^111 2  partem  militis. 

Cauta  Ab  attice  5  Sancti  Edwardi. 

Tempore  Henrici  Regis6  invenit  Abbatia  Sancti 
Ed^vardi  vij  7  milites  ad  servitium  domini  Regis. 

Haec  sunt  nomina  modo  tenentium  feodurn  illud  : — 
Comes  Patricius  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Anselinus 8  Mauduit  tenet  aliud. 

Jordanus  de  Necche,  tertium. 

Turstanus  de  Haseldene,  tenet9  quartum. 

Robertus  filius  Petri  et  Rogerus  de  Thoka,  quintum. 

Rogerus  de  Novo  Burgo  vj  et  vij10;  sed  contra 
ecclesiam.  Et  praeterea  idem  Rogerus  tenet  Elmer- 
ham,  quae  reddit 11  Ecclesiae  xl  solidos,  et  dicit  se  inde 
debere  servitium  dimidii  militis,  quod  Willelmus  de 
Glastonia  nunquam12  habebat13  per  Conventum  ecclesiae 
vel  per  aliquam  abbatissam.  Et  exceptis  illis  sunt  quidam 
quibus,  post  illud  feffamentum,14  de  dominio  ecclesiae  et 


1  Halsweia,  L.  N. 

2  quintam,  L.  N. 

3  fef 'amento,  L.  N. 

*  De  novo  fefamento,  L.  N. 

5  Abbatissae,  L.  N. 

6  Regis  Henrici,  L.  N. 

7  septem,  L.  N. 

8  Ancelinus,  L.  N. 


9  L.  N.  omits  tenet. 

10  septimum,  L.  N. 

11  reddidit,  L.  N. 

11  numquam,  L.  N.  , 

13  habebit  in  MS.,  altered  to  ha¬ 
bebat  ;  habuit,  L.  N. 
u  fef amentum,  L.  N. 


214 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Dorsete — cont. 

A.D.  1 1 66-  dono  abbatissai  um  datae  fuerunt  terrae  ad  liberum  ser¬ 
vitium  faciendum  ecclesiae,  et  tenuerunt  anno  et  die  quo 
Rex  Henricus  vivus  et  mortuus  fuit,  et  adhuc  tenent, 
quorum  haec  sunt  nomina  : — 

Alvredus  de  Sancto  Edwardo,  ij  1  hidas  ad  servi¬ 
tium  dimidii  militis. 

Hugo  de  Chuselburne,  ij  hidas  et  dimidiam  ad  ser¬ 
vitium  dimidii  militis. 

Ricardus  filius  Waringeri,  j  hidam  ad  vj^111 2  partem 
[militis]. 

Wido,  j  hidam  ad  vjtam  partem. 

Johannes,  j  hidam  ad  vjtam  partem. 

Nicholaus3  de  Tarente,  j  hidam  ad  vjtam  partem. 

Gerardus  Giffard,4  j  hidam  ad  vjtam  5  partem. 

Turstanus  de  Halesdene,6  j  hidam  ad  vjtam5  partem. 

Rogerus  de  Staffordia,  j  hidam  ad  vjtam5  partem. 

Robertus  de  Chetworthe,7  j  hidam  et  dimidiam  ad 
iiijtam  s  partem. 

Elias  de  Hanleige,9  j  hidam  ad  vjtam  10  partem. 

Bartholomseus  de  Falcam11  i  hidam  ad  v^111  par¬ 
tem.12 


Carta  Alvredi  de  Lincolnia.13 

Isti  sunt  milites  Alvredi  de  Lincolnia  quos  tenet  in 
capite  de  domino  Rege,  et  qui  sunt  f effati  de  veteri 
feffamento,14  scilicet : — 

Willelmus  de  Monasteriis,  qui  tenet  tria  feoda. 
Almaricus  de  Sturtres,  qui  tenet  iiijor. 


1  duas,  L.  N. 

2  sextam,  L.  N. 

3  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 

4  Giffardi,  L.  N. 

5  ,  L.  N. 

6  Haseldene,  L.  N. 

7  Etewrthe,  L.  N. 

8  quartam,  L.  N. 

9  Helyas  de  Hanlege,  L.  N. 


10  quintam,  L.  N. 

11  Falcahamy  L.  N. 

12  ad  quintam  partem  militis, 
L.  N. 

13  L.  N.  adds  to  this  rubric:  de 
militibus  suis  fefatis  ex  veteri  et 
novo  fefamento. 

14  fefati  ex  veteri  fefamento,  L.  N. 


.LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SC  ACC  ARIO. 


215 


Dorsete — coni . 

Hugo  de  Bosco,  qui  tenet  ij.1 
Alvredus  Tonarre2  tenet  ij.1 
Walwanus  de  Darwinestone 3  tenet  ij.1 
(Jalfridus  de  Warmewelle,  qui4 5  tenet  j. 

Hugo  de  Kemet  ttnttj. 

Robertus  de  Rosele 6  tenet  j. 

Eustachius  de  Stokes  tenet  j. 

Alvredus  Taleboth 7  tenet  j. 

Samson 8  de  Lincolnia  tenet  j. 

J  ordanus  de  Staff  ordia 9  tenet  j . 

Terricus  de  Turberville  tenet  j. 

Terricus  de  Bosco  Herberti 10  tenet  j. 

Walterus  de  Wodiectone11  tenet  j. 

Samson  Hoc 12  tenet  dimidium. 

Robertus  de  Bera  tenet  dimidium. 

Quaedam  Vetula,  xvj  partem. 

Thomas  de  Clamflur  13  tenet  iiij  14  partem. 

Vidua  de  Bockeham  tenet  iiij  14  partem. 

Robertus  filius  Willelmi  tenet  v 15  partem. 

Alvredus  Franceis  tenet  v 15  partem. 

Haec  est  summa  servitii  quod  debet  domino  Regi  ex 
veteri  feffamento  16 — xxv  milites. 

Ex 17  novo  feffamento 16  sunt  feffati 18 : — 

W arinus  de  Halla,  qui  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 
Radulfus  Calvel  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Ricardus  filius  Osulfi  tenet  dimidium. 

Sanson  de  Lincolnia  tenet  dimidium. 


1  duo,  L.  N. 

2  A  later  alteration  in  the  MS. ; 
Tonare,  L.  N. 

3  Durwinestona,  L.  N. 

*  qui  omitted  in  L.  N. 

5  Kernette,  L.  N. 

8  Rosei ,  L.  N. 

7  Talebot,  L.  N. 

8  Sanson,  L.  N. 

9  Stafford,  L.  N. 


10  Hereberti,  L.  N. 

11  Wodieltune,  L.  N. 

12  Sanson  Roch,  L.  N. 
11  Chamflur,  L.  N. 

14  quartam,  L.  N. 

15  quintam,  L.  N. 

16  fef amento,  L.  N. 

17  Et  ex,  L.  N. 
w  fef ati,  L.  N. 


216 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO, 


Dorsete  — cont. 

A.D.  11*66.  Robertus  de  Monasteriis  tenet  dimidium. 

Willelmus  filius  Osberti  tenet  dimidium. 

Robertus  de  Pontsoldo  tenet  iijam  partem. 

Torstanus  de  Cravencona1 *  tenet  viijam2  partem. 
Philippus  de  Salmonville  tenet  viijam2  partem. 
Spragelingus  tenet  xxiiij  partem. 

Johannes  Trebun 3 4  tenet  iiij  partem. 

Rumboldus  tenet  viijam  4  partem. 

W  illelmus  de  Haia  tenet  viij  partem. 

Robertus  filius  Andrebodse 5  tenet  v  6  partem. 
Terricus  filius  Berneri  tenet  xij  partem. 

Et  si  plus  inquiri  poterit,  inquirere  faciemus. 

Carta  Gerberti  de  Percy.7 

Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Duci  Normannorum  et 
Aquitanorum,  Comiti  Andegavorum,  Gerbertus  de  Percy 7 
fidele  servitium  ut  domino. 

Sublimitati  vestrae  insinuo  de  militibus  meis  quos  de 
vobis  in  capite  teneo  : — 

Alvredus  de  Monte  Sorel  debet  mihi  servitium 
trium 8  militum. 

Alvredus  de  Gatimor,  iij  militum. 

Thomas  de  Campo  Florido,  iij  militum. 

Thomas  Latille,  ij  militum. 

Osebertus  Dacus,  ij  9  militum. 

Robertus  de  Chauce,  j  militis. 

Walterus  de  Stanleiga,10  j  militis. 

Thomas  de  Hasweia,11  j  militis. 

Bartholomaeus  Seru[n],  j  militis. 


1  Torstanus  Cravenceor,  L.  N. 

s  octavam ,  L.  N. 

3  Trebum,  L.  N. 

4  viij,  L.  N. 

8  Anderbodce,  L.  N. 

*  quintam,  L.  N. 


7  Perci,  L.  N. 

8  iij,  L.  N. 

9  duorum,  L.  N. 

10  Stanlega,  L.  N. 

11  Asweie,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SOACOARIO. 


217 


Dorsete — cont. 

Galfridus  de  Ver,  j  militis.  A.D.  1166* 

Alanus  de  Furnellis,1 2  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Lalainde,  j  militis. 

Robertus  Cauvel,3j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Margellis,  j  militis. 

Robertus  filius  Hugonis,  j  militis. 

Osbertus  de  Baiumville,4  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Welles,  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Wadun5  et  Jacob  debent  servitium 
j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Bosco,  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Erleiga,6  j  militem.  Et  tenet  quod¬ 
dam  maritagium  quod  dicit  non  adhuc  debere 
servitium. 

Isti  f effati 7  sunt  de  veteri  feffamento.8  Sed  Walterus 
de  Arundelia9  debet  servitium  j  militis  et  f  effatus 10  est 
de  novo  feffamento.8 

Petrus  Bubbe  et  Walterus  Bubbe  servitium  ij  11  mi¬ 
litum  de  veteri  feffamento.8 


Carta  Galfridi  Martel. 


Galfridus  Martel  tenet  j  feodum  militis,  quod  acquietat 
per  corpus  suum  in  officio  domini  Regis  Buttelerise 12 
suae.  Antecessores  mei  non  tenuerunt  plus  tempore 
Henrici  Regis.  De  hoc  dominio  meo  dedit  Rogero 
fratri  meo  13  tantum  terrae  unde  debet  ei  quartam  partem 
servitii  j  militis,  et  aliam  partem  Simoni  filio  Roberti 
unde  debet  ei  servitium  quartae  partis  j  militis  de  dono 
Regis.14 


1  Fumeis,  L.  N. 

2  La  Linde ,  L.  N. 

3  Calvel,  L.  N. 

4  Baiunville,  L.  N. 

•  Waddun,  L.  N. 

8  Erlega,  L.  N. 

7  feofati,  L.  N. 


8  fej amento,  L.  N. 

9  Arundel,  L.  N. 

10  fefatus,  L.  N. 

11  duorum,  L.  N. 

12  Butelerice,  L.  N. 

'*•  Sic  in  MSS. 

14  militis  unius,  L.  N. 


‘218 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACOARIO. 


Dorsete—  cont. 

•  De  purchaciis  Episcopi  Sarrisbiriensis *  1 : — 
Willelmus  iilius  Ricardi,  feoda  iij  militum. 
Rualet2  de  Waie,  feodum  j  militis  et  dimidii. 
Henricus  filius  Willelmi,  feodum  j  militis. 
Michael  de  Wahulle,  feodum  j  militis. 


Carta  Willellmi  Belet. 

Willelmus  Belet  debet  Regi  ex  veteri  feffamento 3 
servitium  j  4  militis  et  tantum  habeo. 

Carta  Radulfi  de  Chahaines. 

De  veteri  feffamento3  Regis  tenet  Radulfus  de  Cha¬ 
haines  iij  5  milites.  Et  de  novo  feffamento 3  quartam 
partem  militis,  de  dominio  suo : — 

Willelmus  de  Cumba  tenet  eandem  quartam  partem 
militis. 

Simon  de  Leseburne,6  j  militem. 

Walterus  Giffard,7  j  militem. 

Torstanus  de  Rodmartone,  j  militem. 


Carta  Bernardi  Pulli. 


Ego  Bernardus  Pullus  teneo  de  Rege  feodum  j 4 
militis  de  honore  de  Monte  Acuto  sicuti  pater  meus 
tenuit  in  die  et  in  anno  quo  Henricus  Rex  Anglorum 
fuit  vivus  et  mortuus,  excepto  quod  vija  8  pars  illius  feodi 
mihi  injuste  sublata  est.  Et  tamen  ego  plenarie  servi¬ 
tium  facio.  Feodum  illud  est  in  Dorsete  et  in  hundredo 
Sancti  Georgii  de  Dorecestria,  et  vocatur  Cerna  Pulli. 


1  De  dono  Domini  Regis  de  Pur- 
chasiis  Episcopi  Sarisbiriensis, 
L.  N. 

J  Sic  in  MS. ;  Rualent ,  L.  N. 

1  fef amento,  L.  N. 


4  unius,  L.  N. 

5  tres,  L.  N. 

6  Lessebur ne,  L.  N. 

7  Giffardus,  L.  N. 

8  vij,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


219 


PORSETE — COnt. 

Carta  Willelmi  filii  Joh annis  de  Herpetreu.1 

Ego  Willelmus  filius  Johannis  de  Herpetreu1  teneo  de 
honore  qui  fuit  de.  Batettonia2  in  capite  de  domino 
Rege  xiij  milites  et  dimidium  et  quartam  partem  militis, 
scilicet : — 

Ricardus  filius  Hlud  Flameng,3  vij  milites. 

W  illelmus  filius  Hugonis,  ij  4  milites  et  dimidium 
et  quartam  partem  militis. 

Robertus  de  Morcellis,5  duos  milites. 

Duas  partes  militis  quas  habui  in  dominio  dedi 
Rogero  Bacun  cum  filia  mea. 

Willelmo  filio  Stephani,  tertiam  partem  militis.  Et 
ego  debeo  facere  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Serentone,  dimidium  militem.  Et  apud 
Harepetre  de  feodo  de  Monte  Acuto  de  honore  Comitis 
Moretoniae,  j  militem  per  idem  servitium  quod  alii 
Barones  faciunt  de  eodem  honore. 

Et  Reddonam  teneo  de  domino  Rege  quae  est  feodum 
j  militis,  unde  Ricardus  de  Reddona6  detinet  vi  servi¬ 
tium,  et  dicit  nullum  servitium  mihi  debere  facere  de 
feodo  Comitis  de  Moretonia. 

Carta  Willelmi  filii  Johannis.7 

Ego  Willelmus  filius  Johannis  teneo  de  Rege  in  capite 
de  veteri  feffamento 8  de  honore  Moretoniae  vij  milites, 
unde  iij  9  milites  faciunt  servitium  ij  militum. 

Isti  sunt  milites  qui  de  me  tenent,  scilicet : — 

Wimundus  filius  Radulfi  tenet  feoda  ij  militum. 

Rogerus  filius  Odonis,  j  militem. 

Et  super  dominium  meum,  iiij  milites. 


1  Hepetreu,  L.  N. 
J  Battonia,  L.  N. 
*  Flemengi,  L.  N. 

4  duos,  L.  N. 

5  Morceles,  L.  N. 


6  Raddona,  L.  N. 

7  Johannis  de  Westone,  L.  N. 

8  fefamento,  L.  N. 

9  tres,  L.  N. 


220 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCAOOARIO. 


Dorsete  -  cont. 

Carta  Ricardi  filii  Willelmi. 

Domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Ricardus  filius 
Willelmi  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Vobis  mando 1  quod  debeo  vobis  decem  milites  de 
feodo  de  Moretonia,  unde  iij  2  faciunt  ij,3  scilicet : — 
Radulfus  de  Dumere,  tenet  duo.4 
Willelmus  de  Cinnoch,  j.5 
Walterus  Briton,6  j.5 
Willelmus  de  Cilterne,  j.5 
Ricardus  filius  Jordani,  j.5 
Alanus  de  Forashasle,7  dimidium. 

Willelmus  de  Stantone,  unum. 

Et  isti  sunt  de  veteri  feffamento  8 ;  et  nichil  de  novo. 
Et  de  dominio  meo  duo  et  dimidium.  Valete. 


SUMERSETE. 


Carta  Battoniensis  Episcopi. 


Carissimo  domino  suo  Regi  Anglorum,  Battoniensis  9 
Episcopus  salutem  et  fidele  Servitium. 

Fecimus  inquirere  per  legales  homines  meos 10  quod 
servitium  militum  habeat11  Episcopus  Battoniensis  et 
quot  milites  feodatos  tempore  Henrici  Regis  avi  vestri. 
Haec 12  autem  per  eos  inquisivimus,  et  si  certiorem 
inquirere  poterimus  veritatem,  nos  illam  vobis  signifi¬ 
cabimus. 

De  veteri  feffamento 8  sunt  isti : — 

Reginaldus  praecentor  de  Welles,  j  militem  et  vtam 
partem  militis. 


1  Mando  vobis,  L.  N. 

2  tres,  L.  N. 

3  duos,  L.  N. 

4  duo  tenet,  L.  N. 

5  unum,  L.  N. 

6  Brutun,  L.  N. 


'  Forhasle,  L.  N. 

* fef amento,  L.  N. 

°  Robertus  Bathoniensis,  L.  N. 
1#  nostros,  L.  N. 

11  habebat,  L.  N. 

12  hoe,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


221 


SUMERSETE — COTlt. 

Ricardus  de  Chiuetone,1  j  militem.  A.D.  1166. 

Ricardus  de  Lotingario,2  j  militem. 

Mathaeus  de  Horningedone,  j  militem. 

VVillelmus  filius  Johannis,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Johannes  de  Ken,  ij  3  milites. 

Thomas  de  Wicha,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  Pukerel,  j  militem. 

W alterus  Hossatus,4  j  militem. 

Hamo  filius  Galfridi,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Reginaldi,  dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  de  Estone,  iiij  partes  militis. 

Wakelinus  Hossatus,5 6  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  Hosatus,  et  Walterus  Ladda,  et  Adam  de 
Sokerwicha,8  j  militem. 

Henricus  Lupellus,  dimidium  militem. 

Fo.  88.  Prior  Battoniae,7  et  Gregorius,  et  Willelmus  Crocus,8 

dimidium  militem.9 

Philippus  de  Walintone,  dimidium  militem. 

Simon  de  Cerda  et  Willelmus  filius  Jordani,  dimi¬ 
dium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Dene,  et  Ricini,10  et  Johannes  de  Hyla, 
j  militem.9 

Hugo  de  Wirecestria,  et  Adam  de  Lambroc,11  et 
Johannes  filius  Richildae,12,  Lambertus,  Baldricus 
de  Biflescote,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Martini,  iij  partes  militis. 

De  novo  feffamento  13 :  — 

Willelmus  Marscallus 14  deforciat 15  Episcopo  duas 
hidas  de  dominio  suo. 


1  Stivintone,  L.  N. 

2  Lotingar\_ius'],  L.  N.  on  an 
erasure. 

3  duos,  L.  N. 

*  Hosatus,  L.  N. 

5  Walkelinus  Hosatus,  L.  N. 

6  Socherwicha,  L.  N. 

'•  Bathonite,  L.  N. 


8  Croc,  L.  N. 

9  militem  omitted  in  L.  N. 

10  Rumi,  L.  N. 

11  Lambroce,  L.  N. 

12  Richild,  L.  N. 

13  fefamento,  L»  N. 

14  Marescallus,  L.  N. 

13  difforciat,  L.  Ili. 


222 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SC  ACC  ARIO. 


SUMERSETE — COTlt. 

A.D.  1166.  Willelmus  filius  Johannis  dicit  quod  debet  de 
Dorkemerefeld 1  j  militem,  sed  Episcopus  dicit 
quod  deberet  esse  dominium  suum.  Et  praeter 
haec  sunt  ibi  minutae  partes  quas  tenuerunt 
servientes  Episcopi  per  ministerium  servientium, 
de  quibus  aliquando  Episcopus  capiebat  denarios 
in  auxilium  Regis. 

Episcopus  debet  Regi  servitium  xx  militum. 

Carta  Abbatiae  Glastonle. 

Milites  qui  tenuerunt  tempore  Regis  Henrici  et  modo 
tenent  de  Abbatia  Glastoniae  : — 

Walterus  de  Sireburne2  tenuit  feodum  j  militis, 
et  modo  Comes  Patricius. 

Walterus. Waleram,  senior,  tenuit  feodum  j  militis, 
et  modo  Walterus  filius  ejusdem  Waleram. 

Robertus  Malet  tenuit  feoda  x  militum,  et  Eu- 
bertus  de  Sancta  Susanna  tenet 3  de  eo  feodo 
feodum  ij  militum,  et  modo  Willelmus  Malech4 
tenet  totum  tenementum  pro  xij  militibus. 

Alvredus,  senior,  de  Lincolnia  tenuit  feoda  v  mi¬ 
litum,  et  modo  Alvredus.5 

Robertus  de  Candos  tenuit  j  militem,0  et  modo  Wal¬ 
terus  filius  ejus. 

Ansketillus  de  Cossingtone  7  tenuit  feodum  j  militis, 
et  modo  filius  filii  ejus. 

Galfridus  de  Covestone  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et 
Galfridus  filius  Adae  filii  ejus  tenet  modo. 

Hugo  de  Graintone  tenuit  feodum  dimidii  militis,  et 
modo  tenet  filius  filii  ejus. 

Sanson  de  Spertegrave  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et 
modo  filius  ejus. 

1  Dokemerefeld,  L.  N. 

2  Scireburne,  L.  N. 

J  Sic  in  MS. 

*  Malet,  L.  N, 


5  Alfredus,  L.  N. 

6  Jeodum  j  viilitis,  L.  N. 

7  Cosintone,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


223 


SUMERSETE  —COUt. 

Walterus  de  Abbodestone  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  A.'.D.  1166. 
et  modo  Robertus  filius  ejus. 

Similiter1  Ricardus  filius  Yrsi  tenuit  feodum 
j  militis  et  dimidii,  et  modo  Reginaldus  filius 
ejus. 

Willelmus  filius  Walteri  tenuit  feoda  v  militum,  et 
modo  filius  Roberti  filii  Martini. 

Odo  Beaucens2  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et  modo 
Galfridus  filius  filii  ejus. 

Willelmus  de  Hawataleia3  tenuit  feodum  j  militis 
et  adhuc  tenet. 

Albricus  tenuit4  feodum  j  militis,  et  modo  Rogerus 
Folioch.5 

Radulfus  Huse  tenuit  feodum  j  militis  et  adhuc 
tenet. 

Johannes  filius  Hamundi  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et 
modo  tenet  Willelmus  filius  filii6  ejus. 

Galfridus  Tortesmeins7  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et 
modo  tenet  Robertus  Pukerel. 

Osbertus  de  Liswis8  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et 
modo  tenet 9  Henricus  de  Novo  Mercato. 

Rogerus  de  Berkelai  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Henricus  Orescuil  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et  modo 
Elias  10  filius  ejus. 

Radulfus  Basset  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et  modo 
tenet  hrnres  Radulfi  Basset  junioris. 

Arnulfus  11  tenuit  feodum  dimidii  militis,  et  modo 
tenet  Willelmus  filius  Ricardi  filii  ejus. 


1  Similiter  is  correctly  referred 
to  the  end  of  the  preceding  entry 
in  L.  N. 

2  Baucans,  L.  N.  The  e  is 
interlined  in  the  MS. 

3  Hwateleia,  L.  N. 

4  tenet,  L.  N. 

5  Foliotk,  L.  N. 


6  filius  filius,  L.  N. 

7  Tortesmains,  L.  N. 

8  A  later  alteration  in  the  MS. ; 
Li  suns,  L.  N. 

9  tenet  omitted  in  L.  N. 

10  Heliax,  L.  N. 

11  Aiulfus,  L.  N. 


224 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACOARIO. 


SUMERSETE — COTlt. 

Rembaldus1  Huscarl  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et 
modo  Robertus  de  Wildesora.2 
Ricardus  Cotele  tenet  xx  libratas  terrae,  quae  fuerunt 
de  dominio  et  mensa  monachorum,3  et  nullum 
inde  servitium  facit. 

Baldewinus  de  Estcote 4  tenuit  feodum  j  militis,  et 
modo  haeres  Ywain  filii  ejus. 

Carta  Abbatle  MUCHELNELE.5 

Ecclesia  Muchelneiae  6  feodum  j  7  militis  habet  cujus 
servitium  debet  domino  Regi,  sicuti  debuit  antiquitus 
Regibus  praedecessoribus  ejus  de  novo  vel  de  veteri 
feffamento 8 ;  nec  amplius  habet  nec  amplius  debet. 
Hoc  quidem  feodum  tenent: — 

Ricardus  Revel,  partem. 

Margareta 9  filia  Radulfi  Tabuel,  partem. 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Curcy,10  dapiferi. 

Haec  est  baronia  Willelmi  de  Curcy,10  dapiferi,  quam 
avus  suus  et  pater  suus  tenuerunt,  et  quam  ipse  tenet. 
De  illa  baronia  tenet : — 

Simon  filius  Petri,  viij  11  milites  et  dimidium. 

Filius  Simonis  filii  Petri,  qui  habet  filiam  Rogeri 
de  Fraisneto,  iiij  milites. 

Alanus  filius  Reinberti,  iij  milites. 

Hugo  Gulafre,  iij  milites. 

Philippus  de  Ramelly,12  j  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Adae,  j  militem. 


1  Reinbaldus,  L.  N. 

2  Wildeshora,  L.  N. 

3  monacorum,  L.  N. 

4  Essecote ,  L.  N. 

6  Abbatis  Midcelania,  L.  N.  In 
the  MS.  the  rubric  is  written  above 
an  erasure. 

6  Midcelania,  L.  N. 


7  unius,  L.  N. 

8  fefamento,  L.  N.,  where  De  novo 
correctly  begins  a  fresh  sentence. 

9  Et  Margareta,  L.  N. 

10  Curci,  L.  N. 

11  viijt0,  L.  N. 

12  Rumelli,  L.  X. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


225 


SUMERSETE — COnt. 

Robertus  Gerebert,1  j  militem.  A.D.  H66. 

Reginaldus  filius  Godefridi,  tres  partes  j  militis. 

Willelmus  Poer,2  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Reyni,3  j  militem. 

Fulco  Poer,2  j  militem. 

Hoc  est  de  veteri  feffamento.4 

Et  de  novo  feffamento 4  quod  pater  suus  feodavit 
Fo.  88  d.  de  dominio  suo  de  eadem  baronia  : — 

Ricardus  de  Londonia,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Stane,  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Lilibone,5 6  j  militem. 

Hugo  Pincerna,  dimidium  militem. 

Berengerus,  dimidium  militem. 

Goidlanus,  v^171 6  partem  j  militis. 

Ex 7  baronia  Willelmi  Meschin 8  ex  parte  matris 
suae  : — 

Hugo  Malet,  viij  milites. 

Philippus  de  Chunes,9  j  militem. 

Amauricus  de  Sterta,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Michael  de  Spichwich,10  j  militem. 

Petrus  de  Godintone,  j  militem. 

Godefridus  de  Dony,11  j  militem. 

Reginaldus  de  Alivecote,12  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  Barre,  j  militem. 

Simon  de  Monte  Alto,  dimidium  militem. 

Adam  filius  Normanni,  dimidium  militem. 

Petrus  de  Moretone,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  Gramaticus,  dimidium  militem. 


1  Gerbert,  L.  N. 

2  Poher,  L.  N. 

s  Reigni,  L.  N.,  but  the  i 
interlined. 

A  fefamento,  L.  N. 

5  Lillebone,  L.  N. 

6  quintam,  L.  N. 

63377. 


7  Et  ex,  L.  N. 

8  Meschini,  L.  N. 
is  8  Chimes,  L.  N". 

10  Spicherwie.  L.  N. 

11  Dom,  L.  N. 

12  Ailievecote,  L.  N. 

I 

P 


226 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


SUMERSETE — COTlt. 

A.D.  1166.  CARTA  WlLLELMI  DE  MOIUN. 

Hii  sunt  milites  feodati  a  tempore  Regis  Henrici 
de  feodo  Willelmi  de  Moiun 1 : — 

Willelmus  filius  Durant 2  tenet  feoda  v  militum  et 

dimidii. 

Willelmus  de  Elleworthe,  iiij  milites. 

Rogerus  Arundel,  iij  milites. 

Alexander  de  Badialtone,  iij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Gundeville,  ij  milites. 

Talbot 3  de  Hafflet,4  ij  milites. 

Reinerius  Tomacli,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Willelmus  de  Sancto  Ligerio,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Ver,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  Hossatus,5  j  militem. 

Radulfus  Hosatus,6  j  militem. 

Johannes  Croc,  j  militem. 

Thomas  de  Campo  Florido,  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Lega,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Walensis,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Galfridi,  j  militem.7 
Robertus  de  Huinaz,8.  dimidium  militem. 

M  athseus  de  Cumba  et  Nicholaus,9  j  militem. 

Simon  Brito,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  Dacus,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Punchardun,10  ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Brattone,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Langeham,  j  militem. 

Gerebertus  de  Percy,11  j  militem. 


1  Willelmi  Moiun,  L.  N. 

3  Duranti,  L.^T. 

3  Talebot,  L.  N. 

*  Hathfelde,  L.  N. 

*  Hosatus,  L.  N. 

8  Husatus,  L.  N. 


'  j  militem  et  dimidium,  L.  N. 

8  Umax,  L.  N. 

9  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 

10  Puntchardun,  L.  N. 

11  Perci,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


227 


SUMERSETE — COTlt. 

Rogerus  de  Novo  Burgo,  j  militem.  A.D.  1166. 

Willelmus  de  Curcy,1  j  militem. 

Isti  milites  feodati 2  sunt  de  novo  feff amento  3  : — 

Willelmus  de  Curcy1  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertus  Buzun,  j  militem. 

Lucas  de  Campo  Florido,  j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Punchardun,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Lundres,4  dimidium  militem. 

Carta  Willelmi  Malech.5 6 

Isti  sunt  milites  de  veteri  feflamento 3  Willelmi 
Malech 5  de  feodo  quod  tenet  in  capite  de  Rege : — 

Willelmus  filius  Reginaldi  vij  milites  et  iijam 
partem  militis. 

Baldewinus  Malet,  ij  milites  et  iijam  partem  militis. 

Thomas  de  Halseweie,3  j  militem. 

Osbertus  de  Eston,  iij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Arundel,7  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Woda,  j  militem. 

Serio  de  Braicote,8  j  militem. 

Jordanus  de  Cnolla,  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Sancto  Quintino,  j  militem. 

Jordanus  de  Staffordia,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  Hosatus,  dimidium  militem. 

Isti  sunt  de  veteri  feffamento 3  et  tot  debet  Regi : — 

Robertus  Malherbe,  j  militem  et  iij 9  partes  j  10 
militis. 

Elyas  de  Meysi,11  iiijtam  12  partem  militis. 

Johannes  Belet  et  Henricus  de  Lopena,  j  militem, 
ita  quod  Henricus  tenet  inde,  vtam  13  partem. 


1  Curci,  L.  N. 

2  Isti  sunt  milites  feodati ,  L.  N. 

3  fef amento,  L.  N. 

4  Londonia,  L.  N. 

*  Malet,  L.  N. 

6  Halsweie,  L.  N. 

7  Rogerus  Arundel,  L.  N. 


8  Braicota,  L.  N. 

°  iiif,  L.  N. 

10  unius,  L.  N. 

11  Helias  de  Meisi,  L.  N. 

12  quartam,  L.  N. 

13  quintam,  L.  N. 


p  2 


228 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  1166. 


Fo.  89. 


SUMERSETE — COTlt. 

Philippus  Buzard,1 2  vtam  2  partem  militis. 

Willelmus  Hostiarius,  xxam  partem.3 
De  novo  fefiamento  4  isti  subscripti : — 

Robertus  filius  Bernardi,  j  militem. 

Osbertus5  de  Barn  ville6,  xam  partem  militis. 
Malgerus,  vtam  2  partem. 

Robertus  filius  Reineri,  dimidium  militem. 
Willelmus  de  Norfolke,7  decimam  partem  militis. 
Ipsemet  Willelmus  debet  Regi  in  Kent,  de  honore 
quem  ei  dedit,  dimidium  militem. 

Carta  Drogonis  Juvenis.8 

Isti  sunt  milites  de  baronia  Drogonis  Juvenis  de 
Monte  Acuto,  de  parvis  militibus  Comitis  Meretoniae,9 
quorum  iij 10  milites  non  faciunt  Regi  servitium  nisi 
quantum  duo  debent  facere  de  caeteris  baronibus 
Angliae : — 

Willelmus  Malherbe,11  iiij  milites. 

Robertus  filius  J ohannis,  j  militem. 

Jordanus  Gwihaine,12  j  militem. 

Henricus  Lupellus  tenet  injuste  terram  de  Dikenes- 
cova  13  et  sine  waranto,  et  deforciat  eam  Drogoni ; 
quae  debet  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Willelmi  occupavit  et  tenet  injuste 
terram  de  Winburneforde,  quae  debet  dimidium 
militem. 

Hamo,  dimidium  militem. 

Helyas  de  Arderna,14  j  15  militem. 


1  Buzar,  L.  N. 

2  quintam ,  L.  N. 

3  vigesimam  partem  militis,  L.  N. 

*  fef amento,  L.  N. 

5  Osebertus,  L.  N. 

6  Bainville,  L.  N. 

T  Nortfolce,  L.  N. 

8  Curta  Drogonis  Juvenis  de 

Monte  Acuto,  L.  N. 


9  Moretonice,  L.N. 

10  tres,  L.  N. 

11  Mala  Herba,  L.  N. 

12  Guihaine,  L.  N. 

13  Dichenescova,  L.  N. 

14  Ardena,  L.  N. 

15  unum,  L.  N.  on  an  erasure. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCAR10. 


229 


SUMERSETE — COnt. 

Thomas  de  Tolra,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Bernardi,  tertiam  partem  militis. 

Et  de  novo  feffamento 1 : — 

Willelmus  de  Monte  Acuto,  j  militem. 

Valete. 

Summa — ix  milites  et  dimidium  et  tertia  pars  j  mi¬ 
litis  2 ;  et  j  militem  quem  Henricus  Lupellus  deforciat. 

Carta  Willelmi  filii  Willelmi.3 

Ego  Willelmus  filius  Willelmi  de  Haseberga  habeo  tres 
milites  de  veteri  feffamento  1  de  anno  et  die  quo  Rex 
Henricus  avus  domini  Regis  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus, 
unde  Willelmus  filius  Terrici  debet  mihi  servitium 
duorum  militum.  Et  egomet  facio  servitium  j  militis 
de  dominio  meo  de  Haseberga 4 ;  et  nullum  habeo  fefia- 
tum 5  de  novo  feffamento.1 


Ricardus  Revel  tenet  Langeport  et  Curcy6  per  ser¬ 
vitium  duorum  7  militum. 


Carta  Roberti  filii  Radulfi. 

Domino  suo 8  Regi  Anglorum,  Robertus  filius  Radulfi 
salutem  et  servitia.  Sciat  vestra  dignitas  9  quod  ego  de 
feodo,  pro  servitio  j  militis,  teneo  xx  libratas  terne  quae 
fuerunt  Reginaldi  filii  Hugonis  apud  Sumersete ;  et 
tantum  habuerunt  antecessores  vestri,10  et  tantum  vobis 
facere  debeo. 


1  fef  'amento,  L.  N. 

2  iij  pars  j  militis,  L.  N. 

3  Carta  Willelmi  filii  Willelmi  de 
Haseberga,  L.  N. 

*  Hasberga,  L.  N. 

5  fej atum,  L.  N. 


8  Cury,  L.  N. 

7  ij,  L.  N.  This  entry  is  a  later 
insertion  in  L.  N. 

8  suo  repeated  in  MS. 

9  ding  nit  as  in  MS. 

10  nostri ,  L.  N. 


230 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


SUMERSETE — COTlt. 

A.D.  1166.  CARTA  NlCHOLAI1  FILII  HARDING!. 

Ego  Nicholaus1  filius  Hardingi  teneo  de  Rege  feo¬ 
dum  duorum  militum  et  dimidii.  Et  de  hoc  feodo 
tenet  Willelmus  filius  Osberti  duas  partes  militis  et 
Wimundus  tertiam  partem.  Istos  duos  feodavit  pater 
meus  tempore  Regis  Henrici  et  residuum  mihi  remanet 
in  dominio  meo ;  praeter  tres  virgatas  terrae  quas  duo 
milites  tenent,  Baldewinus  et  Hildebrandus  ;  et  eas  dedit 
pater  meus,  et  juvant  me  ad  servitium  meum.2  Ego 
nullum  feodavi  post  mortem  patris  mei. 

Carta  Alexandri  de  Alno. 

Domino  suo  Regi  Anglorum,  Alexander  de  Alno 
salutem  et  servitia.  Praecepistis  mihi  quatinus  vobis 
intimarem  servitium  feodi ;  unde,  proinde  3  vestra  ratum 
habeat  reverentia  quoniam  totum  quod  feodi  mei  est, 
pro  servitio  j 4  militis  se  defendit  ;  et  sic  et  tantum 
antecessores  mei  vestris  antecessoribus  fecerunt. 

Interim,5  sciat  vestra  dignitas  quod  ego  post  mortem 
Henrici  Regis  nullum  militem  feffavi,6  sed  pater  meus 
fratri  suo  Hugoni  de  Alno  parum  terree  de  suo  dominio 
dedit  ut,  si  necesse  esset,  servitium  j  7  militis  faceret  ad 
totam  terram  patris  mei  defendendam.  Et  ista  donatio 
facta  fuit  illi  et  haeredibus  suis  tempore 8  Willelmi  Regis. 

Carta  Henrici  de  Cultura. 

Ego  Henricus  de  Cultura  habeo  feodum  j 7  militis 
de  Rege  in  capite,  et  nullum  habeo  feffatum 9  de  veteri 
vel  de  novo  feffamento.10 


1  Nicolavs,  L.  N. 

2  ad  perficiendum  servitium  meum, 
L.  N. 

3  Sic  in  MS. ;  mei.  Proinde,  L.  N. 

</,  L.  N. 

5  Iterum,  L.  N. 


6  fef avi,  L.  N. 

7  unius,.  L.  N. 

8  in  tempore,  L.  N. 

9  fefatum,  L.  N. 

w  fef amento,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


231 


SUMERSETE — COTlt 

Carta  Philippi  de  Columbariis.  a.d.  1166. 

Tempore  Henrici  Regis  uno  feodo1  quod  Philippus 
de  Columbariis  tenet  fuerant  x  milites  feodati,  sci¬ 
licet  : — 

Hugo  Pincerna  de  Tornesbury,  feodum  j  militis. 

Elias2  de  Careville  apud  Lokintone,  feodum  j  mi¬ 
litis. 

Willelmus  filius  Terri 3  de  Otremetone,  feodum 
j  militis. 

Hugo  Fichet  de  Strangestone,  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertus  Fichet  de  Spaketone,  feodum  j  militis. 

Hugo  filius  Malgeri  de  Gaherste,  feodum  j  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Ver  de  Ulmerestone,  feodum  j  militis. 

Apud  Hilda,4  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  Lovel 5  apud  Stoclande,  feodum  dimi¬ 
dii  militis. 

Fo.  89  d.  Robertus  de  Oreweie,6  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Jordani  de  Alwestone,7  dimidium 
militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Radulfi  apud  Panefeld,8  feodum 
dimidii  militis. 

Post  mortem  Henrici  Regis  unus  miles  feodatus 
de  dominio  de  Alvrintone. 

Hugo  de  Ralee.9 

Carta  Ricardi  di10  Estre. 

Hii  sunt  milites  de  baronia  Ricardi  dii10  Estre  de 
veteri  feff amento  11 : — 

Ricardus  filius  Serlonis  debet  ei  servitium  j  mi¬ 
litis. 


lj  feodo ,  L.  N. ;  Rectius  in  feodo. 

•  Helyas,  L.  N. 

3  Terrici,  L.  N. 

<  Sic  in  MS. 

5  Luvel,  L.  N. 

6  Orwee,  L.  N. 


7  Alvestone,  L.  N. 

8  Painfelde,  L.  N. 

9  Sic  in  MS. ;  Alvrintone,  Hugo 
de  Ralege,  L.  N. 

10  del,  L.  N. 

11  fef amento,  L.  N. 


232 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


SUMERSETE — COTlt. 

A.D.  1 166.  Radulfus  Cuinterel,  tertiam  partem  militis.1 

Rogerus  de  Puintone,  tertiam  partem  militis. 

Hugo  de  Poncintone,2  tertiam  partem  militis. 

Et  villa  de  3  Estre,  tertiam  partem  militis. 

De  novo  feffamento 4  quem  ipse  Ricardus  feffavit 5 
de  dominio  suo  : — 

Baldewinus  de  Bolestane,6  quartam  partem  militis.7 

Et  de  dominio  suo  debet  ipse  Ricardus  Domino  Regi 
servitium  ij  militum. 

Summa — iiij  milites.  Et  isti  sunt  de  parvis  militi¬ 
bus  Comitis  Meretonise 8  quorum  iij  9  non  faciunt  Regi 
servitium  nisi  ij  militum.10  Tres  etiam  istorum  sunt  de 
baronia  de  Monte  Acuto  de 11  Sumersete,  et  quartus  de 
honore  de  Berkamestede  12  in  Norhantonscira.13 

Carta  Walteri  Britonis. 

Ego  Walterus  Brito  debeo  domino  Regi  de  servitio 
militum  feffatorum  14  de  tempore  Regis  Henrici  servitium 
xv  militum,  unde  Rogerus  filius  Milonis  tenet  feodum 
j  militis.  Modo  tenet  baroniam  istam  Ricardus  filius 
Willelmi  Bruerre.15 

Robertus  de  Yaletorte,16  feodum  j  militis. 

Radulfus  de  Lega,  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Stantone,  feoda  ij  17  militum. 

Willelmus  Brito,  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  Fossard,  feoda  ij  17  militum. 


1  Cuinterellus  iijam  partem  mili¬ 
tis ,  L.  N. 

1  Puncintone,  L.  N. 

a  del,  L.  N. 

A  fef amento,  L.  N. 

5fefavit,  L.  N. 

6  Belestane,  L.  N. 

7  unius  militis,  L.  N. 

8  Moretonia,  L.  N. 

9  tres,  L.  N. 

10  servitium  nisi  duorum ,  L.  N. 


11  in  Sumersete,  L.  N. 

13  Berchamstede,  L.  N. 

13  Norhantescira,  L.  N. 

14  fefatorum,  L.  N. 

15  Britverre,  L.  N.  In  L.  N.  the 
entry  Modo  tenet  baroniam  istam 
Ricardus  filius  Willelmi  Briwerre 
is  a  marginal  note  in  a  later  hand. 

16  Valle  torta,  L.  N. 

17  duorum,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO, 


233 


SUMERSETE  — COnt . 

Gilbertus  de  Tornay,1  si  totum  feodum  suum  ha-  A 
beret,  deberet  servitium  duorum 2  militum. 

Alexander  filius  Warini,  feoda  ij  militum. 

Rogerus  de  Bulkeworthe,3  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  Bastard,  feodum  4  dimidii  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Cnoitone,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Et  de  dominio  meo,  feodum  j  militis  et  dimidii. 

Et  nullum  habeo  feffatum 5  qui  non  fuit  feffatus 6 
anno  et  die  quo  Rex  Henricus  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus. 

Et  hii  omnes  sunt  de  feodo  Comitis  Mortoniae 7  qui 
non  faciunt  nisi  duas  partes  militis,  quia  feodum  par¬ 
vum  est. 


Carta  Willelmi  filii  Galfridi. 

Willelmus  filius  Galfridi  de  Rege  tenet  feodum  di¬ 
midii  militis. 

Carta  Roberti  de  Bello  campo. 

Carissimo  domino  suo  Regi  Anglorum,8  etc.,  Robertus 
de  Bello  campo  salutem  et  fidelia  servitia.  Domine, 
juxta  mandatum  vestrum 9  vobis,  sicut  domino  meo, 
significo  quod  de  feodo  quod  de  vobis  teneo  in  capite 
tenet  de  me  Hugo  de  Valle  Torto  10  feoda  vij  militum. 

Willelmus 11  de  Monasteriis,  feoda  trium  militum. 

Radulfus  filius  Ricardi,  feodum  j  militis. 

Simon  filius  Roberti,  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertus  Germain,  feodum  j  militis. 

Lucas  Herbein,12  feodum  j  militis. 


1  Gilebertus  de  Torna,  L.  N. 
The  y  is  a  subsequent  addition  in 
the  MS. 

2 1/,  L.  N. 

3  Bulkewrthe,  L.  N. 

4  Hasten  dus ;  feodum  repeated 
in  L.  N. 

5  fefatum,  L.  N. 


6  fuerit  f  fatus,  L.  N. 

7  MoretonieB,  L.  N. 

8  Itegi  Anglorum  Henrico,  L.  N. 
5  vestrum  omitted  in  L.  N. 

40  Sic  in  MS. ;  Valle  Torta,  L.  N. 
11  Et  Willelmus,  L.  N. 

11  Herboin,  L.  N. 


234 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


SUMERSETE — COTit. 

A.D.  1166.  Et  quidam  trium  annorum  puer,  nomine  Philippus 
de  Dorsette,1  feodum  j  militis. 

Et  de  dominio  meo  debeo  servitium  ij  2  militum. 

Et  isti  omnes  fuerunt  feffati 3  anno  et  die  quo  Rex 
Hernicus  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus. 

Et  sciatis  quod  nullum  militem  habeo  feffatum  4  de 
novo,  scilicet  qui  non  fuit  feffatus 5  anno  et  die  quo  6  Rex 
Henricus  avus  vester  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus. 


Carta  Henrici  Lupelli. 

Talis  est  numerus  militum  Henrici  Luppelli 7 
Robertus  de  Sturtone  tenet 8  feoda  iij  9  militum. 
Robertus  Luvel,  j  militis. 

Eustachius  de  Radiis,  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Clivedone,  ij  militum. 

Robertus  de  Gundeville,  ij  militum. 

Robertus  de  Bakatripe  10  et  Robertus  filius  Balde- 
wini,  j  militis.11 

Wimundus  de  Craucumbe  et  Reginaldus  Heirun, 
j  militis.11 

Willelmus  de  Crukec,  feoda  ij  militum.12 
Radulfus  de  Spargeforde,13  j  militis. 

Fo.  90.  Willelmus  de  Monasteriis,  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Punesholt,  feoda  ij  militum.14 
Robertus  Travers,  j  militis. 

Isti  sunt  feffati 3  de  veteri  feffamento.16 


1  Philippus  repeated  in  MS.  ; 
Dorset,  L.  N. 

2  duorum,  L.  N. 

3fefciti,  L.  N. 

4  fefatum,  L.  N. 

5  fefatus,  L.  N. 

6  qua,  L.  N. 

7  Lupelli,  L.  N. 

8  tenet  de  eo,  L.  N. 


9  trium,  L.  N. 

10  Bagatripe,  L.  N. 
uf,  L.  N. 

12  Crukez  duorum  militum,  L.  N. 

13  Sparkeforde,  L.  N. 

14  Punesholte  duorum  militum, 

L.  N. 

15  fej amento,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


235 


SUMERSETE— COTlt. 

Galfridus  filius  Caucelarii1  tenet  de  eodem  feodo  A.D.  1 1 66. 
feodum  j  2  militis  de  dominio  suo. 

Hoc  est  de  novo  fefiamento.3 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Erleiga.4 

Domino  suo  Regi  An  glorum,  Willelmus  de  Erleiga4 
fidele  servitium.5 

Sciatis,  domine,  quod  de  feodo  meo  debeo  esse 
Camerarius  vester  et  habeo  j  militem  feffatum,6  scilicet, 

Tliomam  de  Bercham,  de  antiquo  fefiamento,3  et  nullum 
de  novo  fefiamento.3  Yalete. 

Carta  Galfridi  de  Mondeville.7 

Ego  Galfridus  de  Mondeville  7  teneo  feodum  j  8  mi¬ 
litis  de  domino  meo  Rege  in  Sumersete,9  quod  appel¬ 
latur  Herdintone. 

Carta  Hugonis  de  Curcellis. 

Hugo  de  Curcel 10  tenet  de  Rege  feodum  j  8  militis  et 
de  illo  feodo  quod  [dedit] 11  j  ater  illius  Rogero  de  Grein- 
tone,12  quartam  partem  militis. 


[W]illelmus  de  Wrocham13  tenet  terram  quae  fuit 
Roberti  de  Oburville  pro  feodo  j  militis  de  dono14 
Regis  Ricardi.15 


1  Cancellarii,  L.  N. 

2  unius,  L.  N. 

3  fefamento,  L.  N. 

4  Erleia,  L.  N. 

5  Domino  suo  Henrico  Regi 
.  .  .  servitium  cum  salute,  L.  N. 

6 feodatum,  L.  N. 

7  Mandeville,  L.  N. 

8  unius,  L.  N. 

9  Sumer  sate,  L.  N. 


10  Curcellis,  L.  N. 

11  de  illo  feodo  dedit,  L.  N. 

12  Graintone,  L.  N. 

11  Wrotham,  L.  N. 

14  ex  dono,  L.  N. 

15  L.  N.  adds  the  entry,  like  the 

preceding  one  in  a  later  hand  :  — 
“  Hubertus  de  Burgo  tenet  Ramele 
“  et  Croft  molendina  quae  fuerunt 
“  Willelmi  de  Romara  per - 


236 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  1166.  WILTESCIRA. 

Carta  Episcopi  Sarrtsbtriensis.1 

Hii  sunt  milites  de  Episcopo  Sarrisbiriensi 1  tenentes 
et  autiquitus  feffati 2 : — 

Ricardus  filius  Hildebrant 3  tenet  de  Episcopo 
Sarrisbiriensi 1  feoda  v  militum,  excepta  una 
hida  et  dimidia  quae  jacent  in  parco  de  Sir- 
burne 4  quas  tenet  dominus  Rex  in  manu  sua 
modo.5 

Comes  Patricius  debet  Episcopo  ij  milites  tantum  et 
tertium  ad  Wardum  6  castri  Sarrisbiriae 7  solum¬ 
modo,  sicut  ipse  asserit. 

Gilbertus 8  de  Percy,9  de  honore  Cerdestoke,  iij 
milites. 

Cumtone  in  Sumersete,  j  militem. 

Jordanus  Oliver,  j  militem.10 

Hugo  filius  Osberti,  dimidium  militem. 

Walterus  filius  Ricardi,  j  militem. 

Eudo  filius  Sansonis,  j  militem,  j  11  virgata  minus, 
sicut  ipse  asserit. 

Robertus  Calvel,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  et  Willelmus  de  Bowodo,12  j  militem. 

Alvredus  de  Montesorel,  j  militem. 

Johannes  de  Mellepeis,13  ij  milites. 

Alvredus  de  Lincolnia,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Willelmi,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Percy9  de  Fnlc[inges],  dimidium 
militem. 


1  Saresbiriensts  ;  Saresbiriensi, 
L.  N. 

2 fefati,  L.  N. 

3  Hildebrandi ,  L.  N. 

*  Scireburne ,  L.  N. 

5  modo  in  manu  sua,  L.  N. 

8  Guardam,  L.  N. 


7  Sarisbiriae,  L.  N. 

8  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

9  Per  ei,  L.  N. 

10  j  militem  et  dimidium,  L.  N. 

11  una,  L.  N. 

12  Bowoda,  L.  N. 

13  Meitpeis,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO 


237 


WlLTESCIRA — COnt. 

DeUpecerna,  dimidium  militem,  qui  fuit  de  dominio  A.D.  ll6fi. 
Episcopatus  Sarrisbiriensis  1  ea  die  qua  Rex  Hen- 
ricus  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus. 

Walterus  Walerant  in  Litelinge  tenet  feodum  j 2 
militis  quam  faciebat  antecessori  meo,  et  mihi 
non  facit  nisi  servitium  dimidii  militis ;  quia 
ipse  Walterus  servitium  dimidii  militis,  a  tem¬ 
pore  gwerrae  3  mihi  diflorciat.4 

Robertus  de  Ceresi,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Candele,5  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Alberti,  de  iij 6  hidis  de  Lilletone 
et  de  ij  hidis  de  Bere,  j  militem. 

Ebrardus  de  Libbestone,  dimidium  militem. 

Gilbertus  de  Hale,7  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Cotes,  ij  milites. 

Rogerus  filius  Radulfi,  cum  una  hida  quam  Os- 
mundus  tenet,  j  8  militem. 

Simon  de  Parco,  j  militem. 

Petrus  de  Pocerna,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  La  Folie,9  j  militem. 

Reginaldus  de  Latrope,  j  militem. 

De  feodo  Ricardi  filii  Reginaldi  de  Ramesbiria,10 
dimidium  militem.11 

Robertus  de  Wamburga,12  j  militem. 

Johannes  de  Exonia 13  de  Winterburne  in  Berk- 
scira,11  dimidium  militem. 

Hunfridus  15  Franceis,  miles,  tenebat  feodum  j  militis 
de  Episcopo  Sarrisbiriensi 1  iij  16  hidas  feodi  apud 


1  Saresbiriensis ;  Saresbiriensi, 
L.  N. 

2  unius ,  L.  N. 

*  guerrce,  L.  N. 

4  difforciavit,  L.  N. 

*  Candel,  L.  N. 

6  tribus,  L.  N. 

7  Gilebertus  de  Hala,  L.  N. 

8  unum,  L.  N. 


9  La  Folia,  L.  N. 

10  Rammesberi,  L.  N. 

11  dimidium,  L.  N. 

12  Wanberga,  L.  N. 

13  Oxonia,  L.  N. 

14  Bercsire,  L.  N. 

15  Humfridus,  L.  N. 

16  tres,  L.  N. 


A.D. 1166. 
Fo.  90  d. 


238  LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

W ILTESCIRA —  COnt. 

Imberneram 1  et  ij 2  hidas  ejusdem  feodi  apud 
Hertone.3  De  illis  vero  tribus  hidis  quas  ipse 
Hunfridus4  tenebat  apud  Imbmeram 1  per  Re- 
gem  modo  disseisiatus  est ;  et  duae  hidae  quas  ipse 
tenebat  apud  Hortanam  5  ipsi  Hunfrido  6  adhuc 
remanserunt. 

Petrus  de  Lavintone  eadem  die7  qua  Rex  Henricus 
fuit  vivus  et  mortuus,  tenebat  de  Episcopatu 
Sarrisbiriensi 8  j  militem,9  et  servitium  j  militis 
inde  fecit  Episcopo  Sarrisbiriensi.8  Modo  vero 
tenent  haeredes  Willelmi  filii  Alani  illud  10  feo¬ 
dum,  et  nullum  faciunt  inde  servitium  Episcopo 
Sarrisbiriensi.8 

Hii  sunt  milites  de  Episcopo  Sarrisbiriensi,8  tenentes 
noviter  feffati 11 : — 

Rogerus  filius  Ebrardi  tenet  feodum  ij  12  militum, 
quod  fuit  de  dominio  Episcopatus  Sarrisbiriensis  8 
ea  die  qua  Rex  Henricus  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus.13 

Hillarius 14  tenet  de  Episcopo  Sarrisbiriensi 8  feodum 
dimidii  [militis]  15  j  16  virgata  minus,  sicut  dicit 17 
quod  fuit  de  dominio  Episcopatus  Sarrisbiriensis 8 
ea  die  qua  Rex  Henricus  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus. 

Robertus  de  Turnecumbe  18  tenet  de  Episcopo  Sar¬ 
risbiriensi  8  dimidiam  hidam  pro  decima  parte 
servitii  j  militis,  quae  erat  de  dominio  Episco¬ 
patus  ea  die  qua  Rex  Henricus  fuit  vivus  et 
mortuus.19 


1  Imberneram,  L.  N. 

2  duas,  L.  N. 

3  Hortone,  L.  N. 

4  Humfridus,  L.  N. 

5  Hortonam,  L.  N. 

6  Humfrido,  L.  N. 

7  tenebat  eadem  die,  L.  N. 

8  Saresbiriensis  ;  Saresbiriensi, 
L.  N. 

9  feodum  unius  militis,  L.  N. 

10  idem ,  L.  N. 


nfefati,  L.  N. 

12  duorum,  L.  N. 

13  mortus  in  MS. 

14  Hylarius,  L.  N. 

15  dimidii  militis,  L.  N. 

16  una ,  L.  N. 

17  sicut  ipse  asserit,  L.  N. 

18  Tornecumba,  L.  N. 

19  Note  in  chalk,  Summa  xiij  feoda 
et  x",  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBE  ITS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


239 


W ILTESCIR  A — COTit. 

CARTA  AbBATLE1  DE  WlLTONIA.  'A.D.  1166. 

Abbatia  Wiltoniae 2  debuit  invenire  ad  servitium  Regis 
v  3  milites  tempore  Regis  Henrici.  Et  hii  sunt  feffati 4 
ad  illud  servitium  Regi  faciendum,  videlicet : — 

Willelmus  de  Sancto  Martino  debet  j  militem. 

Gerardus  de  Celca,  j  militem. 

Girardus  Giffard  et  Walterus  de  Calestone,  j  mi¬ 
litem. 

Hugo  de  Curcellis  et  Helias  de  Langeford,  j  mi¬ 
litem.6 

Willelmus  Burnellus  et  Philippus  de  Winburne, 
j  militem. 

Summa  horum — v  milites.  Et  dominium  Abbatiae 
quietum  est. 


Carta  Comitis  Patricii. 

Caro  domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  etc.,  Comes 
Patricius  salutem  et  fidelia  servitia. 

Audito  praecepto  vestro  de  militibus  meis  feodatis  et 
de  servitio  eorum  6  et  de  servitio  quod  ad  dominia  mea 
pertinet,  secundum  quod  de  probis  et  antiquis 7  meis 
inquirere  potui,  vobis  per  praesens  scriptum  meum 
notifico. 

Isti  sunt  feodati  de  veteri  feodamento  de  feodo 
Walteri  patris  mei  quod  de  vobis  in  capite  teneo  : — 

Ricardus  de  Bermeriis8  debet  servitium  vij  mi¬ 
litum. 

Elyas 9  filius  Radulfi,  iij  militum. 


1  Abbatissae,  L.  N. 

-  de  Wiltonia,  L.  N. 
3  quinque,  L.  N. 
*fe/ati,  L.  N. 

5  /,  L.  N. 


6  illorum,  L.  N. 

7  antiquis  hominibus,  L.  N. 

8  Berneriis,  L.  N. 

9  Helias,  L.  N. 


240 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


W ILTESCIR  A — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Nicholaus  1  de  Pola,  iij  militum. 

Rogerus  filius  Galfridi,  ij  militum. 

Rogerus  Burellus,1 2  ij  milites  et  dimidium.3 
Ricardus  de  Listelhul 4  et  Osbertus  de  Brentsant, 
iij  militum. 

Mathaeus  de  Bovile,5  ij  militum  et  dimidii. 

Osbertus  de  Estone,  ij  militum. 

Willelmus  Malewein,6  ij  militum. 

Willelmus  filius  Ebor[ardi],  j  militis  et  dimidii. 
Robertus  de  Valoniis,  j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Calna,  Alexander 7  de  Cheverelle, 
j  militis. 

Robertus  filius  Ascelin,8  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Wiltesira,9  j  militis  et  dimidii. 

Walterus  filius  Henrici,  j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Winterburne,  j  militis. 

Henricus  filius  Ursi,  j  militis. 

Alvredus  de  Lincolnia,  j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Gu[vincis],  ij  militum. 

De  Tudewrdia  debetur  servitium  j  militis. 

Summa  militum  quos  debeo  vobis  in  exercitu.10 — xl. 
De  dominicis  autem  feodi  patris  mei,  et  dominiis  Hun- 
fridi 11  de  Boun,12  qui  tenet  de  jure  meo,  et  feodo  patris 
mei  cum  Bointone,  quam  Elias 13  Giffard  [tenet]  et  cum 
feodatis  de  dominio  veteri  et  novo 14  debetur  vobis, 
custodia  15  Sarrisbiriae  16  et  monstratione,17  servitium  xx 
militum. 


1  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 

2  Burel,  L.  N. 

3  Sic  in  MS. 

4  Lusteshull,  L.  N. 

5  Boville,  L.  N. 

6  Malewain,  L.  N. 

7  Alexander  repeated  in  MS. 

8  Ascelim,  L.  N. 

9  Wiltescira ,  L.  N. 


10  excercitu  in  MS. 

11  Humfridi,  L.  N. 

12  Bohum,  L.  N. 

13  Helias,  L.  N. 

14  ex  veteri  et  ex  novo ,  L.  N. 
16  in  custodia,  L.  N. 

16  Saresbirice,  L.  N. 

17  in  monstratione,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACOARIO. 


241 


W ILTESCIR  A — COTlt. 

Isti  sunt  feffati 1  ex  veteri  feffamento 2  de  do-  A.D.  ii66. 
minio  : — 

Walterus  filius  Waconis,3  Ricardus  4  filius  Widonis, 
dimidium  militem. 

Albanus  de  Gatesdene,  dimidium  militem. 

Simon  filius  Petri,  v^m  5  partem  militis. 

Paganus  filius  Radulfi,  vtam  5  partem  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Derneford,  v^™5  partem  militis,  si 
unam  virgatam  haberet. 

Milo  de  Danteseia  est  feodatus  de  novo  de  dominio 
et  debet  servitium  j  militis. 

Isti  sunt  feodati  ex  veteri  feffamento 6  de  maritagio 
matris  meae : — 

Ernaldus  Durlengi,  vj  milites. 

Alexander  de  Cheverel,  iij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Ferclis,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  Malcovenant,7  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Walterus  Gitfard,  j  militem  8  et  dimidium. 

Willelmus  Moisant,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Galfridi  est  de9  novo  feodatus  de 
dominio  maritagii  matris  meae,  et  debet  servitium  j  10 
militis. 

Fo.  9i.  Carta  W  alteri  Waleram. 

Ego  Walterus  Waleram  habeo  xij  milites  feftatos  11  de 
veteri  feffamento  6  de  tempore  Regis  Henrici,  avi  domini 
Regis,  qui  debent  plenum  servitium.  Nomina  eorum 
haec  sunt : — 

Willelmus  de  Turberville,  iij  milites. 

Julianus  de  Manestone,12  j  militem. 


1  feodati,  L.  N. 

-  feodamento,  L.  N. 

3  Wationis ,  L.  N. 

4  et  Ricardus,  L.  N 

5  quintam,  L.  N. 

6  fej 'amento,  L.  N. 


7  Malcuvenant,  L.  N. 

’  L.  N.  omits  militem. 

9  ex,  L.  N. 

10  unius,  L.  N. 

11  fefatos,  L.  N. 

11  Mannestone,  L.  N. 


63377. 


242 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


W ILTESCIRA — COIlt. 

A.D.  1166.  Johannes  de  Vifhida,1  j  militem. 

Mathaeus  de  Witot,  j  militem. 

Thomas  de  Winterburne,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Anketil,2  j  militem. 

Paganus  filius  Radulfi,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Asselini,3  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Campeny,4  j  militem. 

Herbertus 6  de  Foxcote,  j  militem. 

Et  super  dominium  meum  sunt  servitia  viij  militum, 
scilicet,  Willelmus  filius  Odonis  et  Willelmus  de  Veres6 
de  dominio  meo  de  veteri  feffamento7  feffati.8  Et 
Ingeram  Bittarius,9  vtaml°  partem  j  militis  de  meo 
dominio.  Et  Robertus  de  Bothesham,11  dimidium  mi¬ 
litem,  cum  auxilio  j  virgatae  de  dominio  meo. 

Praeter  haec13  debeo  v  milites  ad  custodiam  castelli 
Sarrisbiriae,13  de  quibus  mihi  unum  debet14  Robertus 
filius  Asselini  3  ;  Willelmus  de  Campeny,15  unum  ; 
Herbertus 5  de  Foxcote,  unum ;  et  super  dominium 
meum,  ij  milites. 

Sed  de  novo  feffamento  7  nullum  habeo  feffatum.16 

Carta  Hunfridi  de  Boun.17 

Haec  sunt  nomina  militum  Hunfridi  de  Boun,17  quibus 
avus  suus  feffatus 18  fuit  in  primo  feffamento 19  quod  in 
Anglia  habuit : — 

Walterus  de  Hayntone,  ij  milites. 


1  Fifhida,  L.  N. 

3  Anketilli,  L.  N. 

3  Ascelini,  L.  N. 

*  Campeni,  L.  N. 

6  Herebertus,  L.  N. 

6  Luverez,  L.  N. 

7  feodamento,  L.  N. 

*  jeodati,  L.  N. 

9  Butarius,  L.  N. 

10  quintam,  L.  N. 


11  Bottesham,  L.  N. 

12  hcec,  L.  N. 

13  Saresbirice,  L.  N. 

14  unum  mihi  debet ,  L.  N. 

15  Campeini ,  L.  N. 

16  feofatum,  L.  N. 

17  Humfridi  de  Bohun,  L.  N. 

18  feofatus,  L.  N. 

19  fefamento,  L.  N. 


•  «  I  v  ' . 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


243 


W ILTESCIRA - COTlt. 

Osbertus  de  Harletre,1  dimidium  militem.  A.D.  1166. 

Hugo  de  •  Braybof  ,2  ij  milites ;  et  tertium  negat 
qui  nondum  dirationatur. 

Walterus  de  Camera,3  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Walope,4  j  militem. 

Hunfridus  Pacevot,6  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Petrus  de  Burgate,  j  militem. 

Filius  Johannis  de  Neville,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Brito,  ij  milites. 

Domina  Avicia,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Rogeri  et  Johannes  de  Herdestoke,6 
dimidium  militem. 

Johannes  de  Riparia,7  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Percy,8  j  militem. 

Alexander  de  Luninia,  j  militem. 

Feodum  Willelmi  de  Foxcote,9  ij  milites. 

Thomas  de  Haleweia,10  j  militem. 

Thomas  de  Sancto  Mauro,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Begintone,  j  militem. 

Asselus11  filius  Galfridi,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Galfridi,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Harding,12  dimidium  militem. 

Walterus  de  Audely,13  j  militem. 

Reginaldus  de  Sum[er]sira,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  filius  Ebor[ardi]  et  Thomas  de  Wiltesira,14 
j  militem. 

Hunfridus15  de  Sancto  Wigores,16j  militem. 

Galfridus  filius  Rogeri,  j  militem. 


1  Harlotera,  L.  N. 

2  Draybouf,  L.  N. 

3  Chain\_es~\,  L.  N. 

4  Wallop ,  L.  N. 

5  Humfridus  Pancefot,  L.  N. 

6  JErdescote,  L.  N. 

7  Ripario,  L.  N. 

*  Perci ,  L.  N. 


9  Foxcota ,  L.  N. 

10  Halesweie,  L.  N. 

11  Atellus,  L.  N. 

12  Ardingi,  L.  N. 

13  Andeli,  L.  N. 

14  Wiltescire ,  L.  N. 

15  Humfridus,  L.  N. 

16  Vigor,  L.  N. 

Q  2 


244 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


WlLTESOIRA — COTit. 

a.d.  1166.  Feodum  Brottonis,  quod  Ecclesia  Serleiae1  tenet, 
j  militem. 

Summa — xxx  milites  et  dimidium. 

Hoc  vero  est  omne  servitium  quod  avus  suus  et  ejus 
pater1  2  de  Rege  tenuerunt  et  ipse  tenet. 

De  novellis  quos  avus  suus  et  ejus  pater  de  dominicis3 
suis  feodaverunt  ante  tempus  et  in  tempore  et  post 
obitum  Regis  Henrici  sunt  isti 4 : — 

Ansellus  5  filius  Galf  ridi,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Willelmus  filius  Galfridi,  dimidium  militem. 

Sanson  Bigot,6  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Grain  ville,  ij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Caesaris  Burgo,  j  militem. 

Manasserus  Biseth,7  j  militem. 

Hugo  Wac,  j  militem. 

Hunfridus  8  de  Sancto  Wigores,9  j  militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Odonis,  dimidium  militem. 

De  omni  dominio  suo  et  de  istis  ix10  et  dimidio 
militibus,  quia  de  dominio  suo  feodati  sunt,  non  debet 
Regi  servitium  nisi  de  corpore  suo. 

Carta  Ricardi  de  Greinstede. 

Ego  Ricardus  de  Greinstede  nullum  militem  habeo 
feodatum  de  veteri  feffamento 11  de  tempore  Regis 
Henrici  avi  domini 12  Regis,  nec  de  novo  post  mortem 
ejus.  Sed  de  dominio  meo  facio  servitium  j  13  militis 
domino  Regi. 


1  Ferliee,  L.  N. 

s  et  pater,  L.  N. 

3  dominiis,  L.  N. 

4  videlicet  added  in  L.  N. 

3  Attellus,  L.  N. 

6  Bigod,  L.  N. 

7  Biset,  L.  N. 


8  Hum/ridus,  L.  N. 

9  Vigor,  L.  N. 

10  novem,  L.  N. 

11  feodamento,  L.  N. 

12  Domini  nostri,  L.  N. 

13  unius,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


245 


W ILTESCIRA — cont. 

Carta  Godefridi  de  Scudemor.1 

Godefridus  de  Scudemore 1  tenet  de  Roberto  de  Weias 2 
feodum  iiijor  militum  de  antiquo  feodo.  Et  de  novo 
tenet  feodum  j  militis  et  in  custodia  ij  3  militum  ;  et  de 
antiquo  feodo  sunt  duo  feodati,  scilicet,  Waleram  de 
Scodimore 1  et  Waleram  Giffardus ;  et  aliud  facit  de 
dominio  suo.  Et  idem  Godefridus  de  hoc  servitio  est 
attornatusin  manu  Regis,  judicio  Curiae  Regis.  Dominus 
Rex  super  hoc  placitum  suum  faciat. 

Carta  Galfridi  Hosati. 

Hoc  est  feffamentum 4  Galfridi  Hosati. 

Henricus  Hosatus,  pater  Galfridi  praedicti,  dedit  Hen¬ 
rico  nepoti  suo  x  libratas  terrae  de  dominio  suo  per 
servitium  dimidii  militis,  et  hoc  est  de  novo  feffamento.5 
Et  de  omni  feodo  suo  non  debet  Regi  nisi  servitium 
unius  militis.  Non  enim  habet  aliquem  militem  de 
veteri  feffatum.6 

Carta  Elle  Giffardi.7 

Hii  sunt  milites  de  baronia  Eliae  Giffardi 8 : — 

Geroldus9  filius  Huberti  habet  feoda  duorum  mi¬ 
litum. 

Domina  Agnes,  feoda  duorum  militum. 

Walterus  de  Evereus,10  feodum  j  militis. 

Gerardus 11  Giffard,  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Remfrei,12  feodum  j  militis. 

Elias  de  Terrintone,  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Geroldi,13  feodum  j  militis. 


1  Scudimora,  L.  N. 

2  Roberte  Wias ,  L.  N. 

3  duorum,  L.  N. 

*  fef  amentum,  L.  N. 

5  fef amento,  L.  N. 

*  fef  at  um,  L.  N. 

7  Helice  Giffard,  L.  N. 


8  Helyce  Giffard,  L.  N. 

9  Giroldus,  L.  N. 

10  E  ver  els,  L.  N. 

11  Girardus,  L.  N. 

12  Reinfridi,  L.  N. 

13  Giroldi,  L.  N. 


246 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


W ILTESCIRA — COnt. 

Carta  Petri  de  Mara. 

Henrico  Dei  gratia  Regi  Anglorum,  Petrus  de  Mara 
salutem. 

Notum  sit  vobis  quod  habeo  Laventonum,  vestri 
gratia,  in  dominio  pro  servitio  duorum  militum.  Sed 
non  habeo  ibi  ullum  militem  f effatum  1  neque  de  veteri 
neque  de  novo.2 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Londonia. 

Carissimo  domino  suo  Henrico  Dei  gratia  Regi  An¬ 
glorum,  Willelmus  de  Londonia  salutem. 

Sciatis  quod  nullum  militem  habeo  f  effatum  3  nec  de 
veteri  feffamento 4  .nec  de  novo,  sed  debeo  defendere 
feodum  meum  per  servitium  corporis  mei. 

Carta  Warneri  5  de  Lusoriis. 

Ego  Wanerus 6  de  Lusoriis  nullum  militem  habeo 
feffatum 7  de  veteri  feodamento 8  de  tempore  Regis 
Henrici  avi  domini  nostri  Regis,  nec  de  novo  post 
mortem  ejus ;  sed  de  dominio  meo  facio  servitium 
j  militis  domino  Regi. 

Carta  H[erberti]  filii  Herberti.9 

Henrico  Regi  Ajiglorum  domino  suo  reverentissimo, 
H[erbertus] 10  filius  Herberti 9  salutem. 

Innotesco  vobis  quod  j 11  militis  feodum  de  vobis 
teneo  quod  habeo  in  dominio  meo  et  unde  vobis  ser¬ 
vitium  facio.12 


1  feodatum,  L.  N. 

2  L.  N.  adds  Valete. 
z  fefatum,  L.  N. 

4  fef  'amento,  L.  N. 

5  Wanerii,  L.  N. 

6  Warnerius,  L.  N. 


7  foofatum,  L.  N. 

8 /feodamento'] ,  L.  N. 

9  Hereberti,  L.  N. 

10  suus  H [erebertus] ,  L.  N. 

11  unius,  L.  N. 

12  L.  N.  adds  Valete. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


247 


W ILTESCIRA — COnt. 

Carta  Hunfredi1  de  Sancto  Wigore.2  a.d.  ii66. 

Hunfredus 3  de  Sancto  Wigore 2  tenet  de  Rege  feodum 
dimidii  militis. 


Carta  Girardi  Giffard.4 

Ego  G[irardus]  GifFard,5  nullum  militem  feodatum 
de  veteri  feffamento  habeo  6  de  tempore  Regis  Henrici 
avi  domini  Regis,7  nec  de  novo  fefFamento8  post  mor¬ 
tem  ejus  ;  sed  de  dominio  meo  facio  servitium  unius 
militis  domino  Regi. 


Eustachius  de  Boilloil 9  tenet  feodum  j  militis  in 
Mere. 

Henricus  Hosatus  tenet  feodum  j  militis  in  Lide- 
tone.10 

Galfridus 11  Wac  tenet  in  Eblesburne 12  feodum  j  13 
militis. 

Galfridus  filius  Petri  tenet  Ceriol,14  per  j  feodum,  de 
novo  feffamento.8 


1  Humfridi,  L.  N. 

‘  Vigore ,  L.  N. 

3  Humfridus,  L.  N. 

4  Gerardi  Giffardi ,  L.  N. 

5  Girardus  Giffardus,  L.  N. 

*  habeo  feodatum  de  veteri  feoda- 
mento,  L.  N. 

7  Domini  nostri  Regis,  L.  N. 

*  feodamcnto,  L.  N. 


9  Bailoil,  L.  N. 

10  Litletone,  L.  N. 

11  Gaufridus,  L.  N. 

12  Ebblesburne,  L.  N. 

13  unius,  L.  N. 

14  Ceriel,  L.  N.,  in  which  this 
and  the  three  preceding  entries  are 
later  insertions. 


248 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  1166. 
Fo.  92. 


DEVENESCIRA. 

Carta  Episcopi  Exoniensis.1 


Venerabili  domino  suo  Henrico  Dei  gratia  illustri 
Regi  Anglorum,2  etc.,  B[artholomaeus]  Dei  gratia  Exoni¬ 
ensis  dictus  Episcopus  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Praecepistis  mihi  quod  mandarem  vobis  per  breve 
meum  sigillatum  et  apertum,  non  quot  servitia  mi¬ 
litum  vobis  debeam,  sed  quot  habeam  milites  fef- 
fatos 3  de  tempore  Regis  Henrici  avi  vestri,  et  quot 
post  mortem  ipsius,  et  quot  sint  super  dominium  meum. 
Praeterea 4  vobis  veritatem  5  inde,  sicut  eam  diligentius 
inquirere  potui,  significo. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri6  tenet  de  me  feoda  iij  mi¬ 
litum. 

Willelmus  de  Tracy,  feodum  j  militis. 

Eustachius  de  Jou,  feoda  iij  militum. 

Cecilia  de  Beuz,7  feoda  iij  militum. 

Ricardus  de  Reddone,8  feoda  ij  militum. 

Willelmus  de  Boterellis,  feodum  j  militis. 

Alexander  de  Colebroc,  feoda  ij  militum. 

Osbertus  de  Wadetone,  feodum  j  militis. 

9  Alanus  de  Furnellis,  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Johannis,  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  Hay,10  feodum  j  militis. 

Radulfus  de  Roke,11  feodum  j  militis. 

Radulfus  filius  Stephani,  feodum  j  militis. 


1  The  rubric  in  L.  N.  is  Carta 
domini  Exoniensis  de  militibus  et 
feodis  suis. 

2  The  style  in  L.  N.  is  Regi 
Anglorum ,  Duci  Normannorum  et 
A  quit  [annorum"].  Comiti  Andega- 
vorum. 

3  fefatos,  L.  N. 

4  Prop  ter  ea,  L.  N. 

5  veritatem  vobis,  L.  N. 


6  Reg[u],  L.  N. 

7  Behuz ,  L.  N. 

8  Raddona,  L.  N. 

9  L.  N.  supplies  the  following 
entry,  evidently  omitted  in  the  MS. 
b7  a  common  clerical  error  :  — 
Osbertus  de  Bekatone,  feodum 
militis. 

10  Hai,  L.  N. 

11  Roche,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


249 


Devenescira — cont. 

Willelmus  de  Egloshail,  feodum  j  militis.  a.d.  i  i  66. 

Johannes  de  Rothomago,  feodum  j  militis. 

Henricus  de  Pomeria,  feodum  j  militis,  in  Cornubia, 
et  feodum  dimidii  militis  in  Devonia.  Sed  negat 
servitium  illius  dimidii  militis  et  tamen  fit  ei. 

Rogerus  filius  Etardi,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Stephanus  de  Stantora,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Lanovatora,1  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Campello,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Torkaringa,2  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Paganus  filius  Reinfridi,3  feodum  j  militis,  excepta 

vta4  parte. 

Adam  de  Landechei  tenet  vtam  5  partem. 

Edil  de  Norothocote 6  et  cognata 7  sua  tenent 
iiijtam  8  partem  unius  militis. 

Prior  de  Plumtone,9  quartam  partem  militis. 

Joel 10  de  Sancto  Winnoco,  feodum  dimidii  militis, 
super  calumpniam,  quia  debet  esse  dominium. 

Osbertus 11  de  Crugalain,  dimidium  militem. 

Baldewinus  de  Pennart,  iij  8  partem  militis. 

Jordanus  de  Trecarl,  dimidium  militem. 

Petrus  de  Lameil,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  da  Yenmene,12  j  militem,  excepta  tertia 
parte.  Margareta  tenet  illam  tertiam  partem. 

Ricardus  filius  Osulfi,  dimidium  feodum  militis. 

Johannes  de  Talumpna,13  dimidium  militem. 

Jordanus  de  Menestre,  dimidium  militem. 

Edwardus  de  Wotolta,14  dimidium  militem. 


1  Lavonatora,  L.  N. 

5  Torkarigqa,  L.  N. 

3  Jteimjridi ,  L.  Is. 

4  quinta ,  L.  N. 

6  quintam,  L.  N. 

6  Northcote,  L.  N. 

7  congna  in  MS. 


*  Sic  in  MS.  ;  quartam,  L.  N. 
°  Plintone,  L.  N. 

10  Johel,  L.  N. 

11  Osebertus,  L.  N. 

12  Wenmcne,  L.  N. 

13  T alumna,  L.  N. 

14  Wotholca,  L.  N. 


250 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Devenescira — cont. 

Omnes  praedicti  sunt  feffati1  de  tempore  Regis 
Henrici : — 

Radulfus  de  Stanga1  2  tenet  tertiam  partem  mi¬ 
litis  3  de  novo  feffamento.4 5 

Johannes  Bern[ard]  filius  Bern[ardi],6  iiijtam  6  par¬ 
tem  militis. 

Yvo  7  et  Osbertus  8  de  Augo,  iiijtam  6  partem  mi¬ 
litis. 

Willelmus  filius  Wimundi,  xijmam  partem  militis. 

Rogerus  filius  Rogeri  Larcevesque,  dimidium  mili¬ 
tem  9  super  calumpniam,  quia  debet  esse  do¬ 
minium. 

Et  praeter  hos  omnes,  sicut  a  multis  audivi,  Comes 
Gloucestriae  et  Comes  Hugo  et  Comes  de  Clare  de¬ 
bent  tenere  de  Exoniensi  Episcopo  ;  sed  nullum  ei  ser¬ 
vitium  faciunt  vel  recognoscunt.10 

Gilbertus 11  Marescallus  tenet  feodum  j  militis  de 
Exoniensi  Episcopo. 

Carta  Abbatis  Tavistochle. 

Venerabili  domino  suo  Henrico  Anglorum  Regi  nobi¬ 
lissimo,  Walterus  Dei  gratia  Tavistochiensis  Ecclesiae 
minister  humilis,  fideles  orationes  in  Christo. 

Noverit  celsitudo  vestra  de  tenura  militum  nostrorum, 
quantum  inde  sollicitius  inquirendo  scire  potuit  parvitas 
nostra,  quod  eo  anno  et  die  quo  inclitus  Rex  Henricus 
avus  vester  vixit  et  viam  universae  carnis  ingressus  est, 
tenuerunt  de  paupercula  domo  nostra. 


1  fefati,  L.  N. 

2  Stangga,  L.  N. 

3  j  militis ,  L.  N. 

4  fef  amento,  L.  N. 

5  Johannes  filius  Bernhardt], 

L.  N. 


6  quartam ,  L.  N. 

7  Ivo,  L.  N. 

8  Osebertus,  L.  N. 

9  dimidium  feodum  militis,  L.  N. 

10  recongnoscunt  in  MS. 

11  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


251 


Deven  escir  a —  cont. 

Ricardus  de  Alneto,  feoda  iiijor  1  militum.  A-D-  uc6 

Rogerus  Cornutus,  feoda  ij  militum. 

Radulfus  de  Oskereville,  feoda  ij  militum. 

Willelmus  de  Tribus  Minetis,  feoda  ij  militum. 

Reginaldus  de  Liddintone,2  feoda  ij  3  militum. 

Galfridus  de  Lege,  feodum  j  militis  et  dimidii. 

Willelmus  Gurdet,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Hugo  de  Wicha,  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertus  Dacus,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Crevebere,4  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Postea  vero,  in  tempore  gwerrae,  de  dominicis  terris 
Ecclesiae  nostrae  quas  ei  bonae  memoriae  Henricus  Rex 
avus  vester  restituit  per  institutionem 5  suam  et  per 
cartas  quas  habemus  et  quas  aliquando  audivit 6  ex¬ 
cellentia  vestra. 

Ricardus  de  Coleville,  feodum  j  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Lega  et  Willelmus  filius  ejus,  feodum 
dimidii  militis  ab  Ecclesia  extorserunt. 

Dilatet  Dominus  regnum  vestrum  et  longo  tempore 
conservet. 


Fo.  92  d.  Carta  Roberti  filii  Regis. 

Hii  sunt  milites  quos  ego  Robertus  filius  Regis  habeo 
feodatos  de  veteri  feffamento 7 : — 

Comes  Reginaldus  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Simon  filius  Roggot,8  feoda  v  militum. 

Wido  de  Brionia,9  feoda  v  militum. 

Johannes  de  Hidone,  feoda  vj  militum  et  dimidii. 
Rolandus  filius  Anfridi,10  feoda  v  militum. 

Ricardus  filius  Willelmi  Dispensarii  feoda  v  mi¬ 
litum. 


1  iiij,  L.  N. 

1  Liddetone,  L.  N. 

3  duorum ,  L.  N. 

4  Crievebere,  L.  N. 
*  jutticiam,  L.  N. 


6  audivit  aliquando,  L.  N. 

7  feodamento,  L.  N. 

8  Roggonis,  L.  N. 

9  Brionna,  L.  N. 

10  Balandus filius  Am/ridi,  L.  N, 


252 


UBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Devenescira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Antonius  de  Bruera,1  feoda  v  militum. 

Baldewinus  de  Eisse,  feoda  ij  militum. 

Thomas  de  Bello  Monte,  feoda  iiij  militum. 

Joel 2  de  Moles,3  feoda  iiij  militum. 

Rogerus  de  Langeford,  feoda  iiij  militum. 

Nicholaus  4  de  Chelli,  feoda  iij  militum. 

Henricus  de  Campo  Ernulfi,  feoda  iiij  militum. 
Willelmus  de  Punchardun,6  feoda  iiij  militum. 
Baldewinus  de  Delstana,6  feoda  iij  militum. 
Mathseus  de  Alravilla,  feoda  iij  militum. 

Robertus  filius  Bernardi,  feoda  ij  militum  et  dimidii. 
Rolandus  de  Nimet,  feodum  j  militis. 

Ricardus  Espec,  feoda  iij  militum. 

Ricardus  Cofphin,7  feoda  ij  militum. 

Willelmus  Beivin,  feoda  ij  8  militum. 

Robertus  de  Yer  et  Robertus  Poherus,9  feodum 
j  militis. 

Alicia10  filia  Ricardi  Daggavillae,  feodum  j  militis. 
Henricus  de  Pomerio,  feodum  j  militis. 

Geolinus  de  Helion,11  feodum  j  militis. 

Gregorius  Lupus,  feodum  j  militis. 

Radulfus  filius  Gadio,12  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  Tallebot,13  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Stephani,  feodum  j  militis. 

Simon  filius  Herberti 14  de  Pine,  feodum 15  j  militis. 
Wimundus  filius  Amfridi,  feodum  j  militis. 

Elias  16  Cophin,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Engeram 17  de  Albernun,18  feodum  dimidii  militis. 


1  Bruiera,  L.  N. 

2  Johel,  L.  N. 

3  Molis ,  L.  N. 

4  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 

5  Puntchardun,  L.  N. 

6  Belstana ,  L.  N. 

7  Cophin ,  L.  N. 

8  duorum,  L.  N. 

9  Pocrius,  L.  N. 


10  Aelicia,  L.  N. 

11  Goeleinus  de  Heliun,  L.  N. 

12  Cadio,  L.  N. 

13  Talebot,  L.  N. 

14  Uereberti,  L.  N. 

13  L.  N.  omits  feodum. 

18  Helyas,  L.  N. 

17  Engelram,  L.  N. 

18  Abemum,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


253 


Devenescira — cont. 

Alarms  de  Furnellis,  feodum  dimidii  militis.  A.D.  1166. 

Willelmus  frater  Comitis  Reginaldi,  feodum  dimidii 
militis. 

Geleinus  Dacus,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Johannis,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Simon  1  de  Lega,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Robertus  filius  Ilgeri,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Herbertus 2  de  Spineto,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Antonius  de  Porloc,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Hugo  de  Ralega,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Radulfus  filius  Eliae 3  tenet  iiijtam  partem  j  mi¬ 
litis.4 

Galfridus  Avenel,  iiijtam  partem  j  militis.5 6 7 
Willelmus  de  Cheine,8  iiij^3-111  partem  j  militis.5 
Rogerus  filius  Samar[ici],  inj^111 7  partem  j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Londonia,  vtam  8  partem  j  militis. 

Fauvel  filius  de  Baratone,9  viijam  10  partem  j  11  militis. 

Robertus  de  Stana,  viijam  10  partem  j  11  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Bonavilla,  vij  partem  militis. 

Beivinus,  xam  partem  militis.12 

Hugo  de  Balecorda,13  vj  14  partem  militis. 

Robertus  filius  Gilberti,15  x  partem  militis. 

Baldewinus,  x  partem  militis. 

Walterus  de  Focland,16  v8  partem  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Boeles,  v  8  partem  militis. 

Nicholaus17  de  Cheledone,  x  partem  militis. 

Philippus  de  Musbiria,  viij  partem  militis. 


1  Symon,  L. 

1  Herebertus,  L.  N. 

8  Helyce,  L.  N. 

4  feodij  militis,  L.  N. 

6  quartam  partem  militis,  L.  N. 

6  Chaino,  L.  N. 

7  quartam,  L.  N. 

•  quintam,  L.  N. 

%  F alvei  filius  de  Bractone,' L.  N. 


10  viij,  L.  N. 

11  j  omitted  in  L.  N. 

12  decimam  partem  j  militis,  L.  N. 

13  Ballecorda,  L.  N. 

14  sextam,  L.  N. 

15  Gileberti,  L.  N. 

16  Folclunda,  L.  N. 

17  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 


254 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Devenescira  -  cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Hii  autem  duo  feodati 1  de  dominio  meo  quos  ego 
feodavi,  scilicet : — 

Thomas  filius  Rogeri,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 
Robertus  de  Horaei,2  feodum  dimidii  militis. 


Carta3  Willelmi  de  Traci. 

Milites  honoris  Willelmi  de  Traci : — 

Willelmus  filius  Walteri,  feoda  iij  militum. 

Robertus  filius  Willelmi,  iij  milites. 

Ricardus  Spec,  j  militem. 

Alanus  de  Furnellis,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Stephani,  dimidium  militem. 
Willelmus  de  Hiaulestone,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  per  Totum,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Ricardus  Le  Baron,4  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Willelmus  de  Alneto,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Rogerus  Tirel,  ij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Omnibus  Sanctis,  ij  milites. 

Rogerus  filius  Somer,  dimidium  militem. 
Herchembaldus  Flemeng,5  j  militem. 

Fal vellus,  viijam  6  partem  militis. 

Ranulfus  Malherbe,  viij  partem  militis. 

Walterus  de  Lega,  ij  milites. 

De  eodem  honore  Rogerus  de  Omnibus  Sanctis  negat 
servitium  ij  7  militum  : — 

Robertus  filius  Willelmi,  ij  7  militum. 

Willelmus  de  Alneto,8  similiter,  dimidii  militis. 

De  dominio  Willelmi  de  Tracy,9  milites  feodati : — 
Hugo  de  Dinatone,10  j  militem. 


1  sunt  feodati,  L.  N. 

3  Hornai,  L.  N. 

3  Carta  honoris,  L.  N. 

4  Le  Barun ,  L.  N. 

5  Hercembaldus  Flemenc,  L.  N. 


6  viij,  L.  N. 

7  duorum,  L.  N. 

8  Alneo,  L.  N. 

8  Traci,  L.  N. 

‘°  Dinant,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


255 


Devenescira— cont. 

Radulfus  de  Stutaville,1  dimidium  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Acford  et  Reginaldus  de  Eli,2  dimidium 
militem. 

Walterus  de  Rail,3  dimidium  militem. 

Carta  Oliveri  de  Tracy.4 
Carissimo  domino  suo  Regi,  fidelis  suus  Oliverus 
de  Tracy 4  salutem. 

Rogerus  de  Camp[ania]  tenet  de  me  vij  milites. 
Henricus  de  Camp[er]b[ur]ne,5  vij  milites ;  et  de 
hiis  vij  militibus  deforciat  6  mihi  Willelmus  filius 
Johannis  unum,  et  Abbas  de  Quarere7  unum, 
Ricardus  Spec  tenet  de  me  duos  milites. 

Philippus  de  Mertone,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  Bastard,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Muncellis,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri,8  dimidium  militem. 
Willelmus  Fauvel,9  dimidium  militem. 

De  novo  feodamento  de  dominio  meo  : — 

Radulfus  de  Seccheville,10  j  militem. 

Otvel  de  Crues  tenet  iij  partes  militis. 

Philippus  de  Serceville10  et  Ricardus  de  Chartrai, 
iiijtam  ii  partem  militis. 

Henricus  de  Camp[er]p[aniis],12  dimidium  militem. 
Valete. 

Carta  Willelmi  filii  Roberti. 

Domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Willelmus  filius 
Roberti  salutem. 


1  Siccavilla,  L.  N. 

2  Deli,  L.  N. 

3  Raile,  L.  N. 

*  Traci,  L.  N. 

5  Sic  in  MS.;  Campblur'jne, 

L.  N.  The  reading  in  both  MSS. 
is  hopelessly  corrupt.  Henricus  de 

Campb{ur~\ne,  vij  milites  is  repeated 
in  L.  N.  as  a  fresh  entry. 

8  difforciat,  L.  N. 


7  Quariere,  L.  N. 

8  Regis,  L.  N. 

9  Falvel,  L.  N. 

10  Secceville,  L.  N. 

11  quartam,  L.  N. 

12  Camp  [er]pus,  L.  N.  The 
scribes  of  both  MSS.  are  again  at 
fault,  the  L.  R.  version  being  merely 
an  imitation  of  L.  N. 


256 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Devenescira — cont. 

A.D.  H66.  Juxta  prseceptum  quod  praecepistis  de  militibus 
Angliae,  sciatis  ad  praesens  quod  feoda  xxx  militum 
de  vobis  teneo,  de  quibus  Joel 1  de  Hole  de  veteri  feffa- 
mento 2  tenet  feoda  iij  3  militum. 

Willelmus  de  Wlmartone,4 *  iij  militum. 

Philippus  de  Hiwis,  iij  militum. 

Willelmus  filius  Hugonis,  iij  militum. 

Daniel  de  Brailega,  ij  militum. 

Willelmus  filius  Hai,  ij  militum. 

Osbertus  de  Hesedone,6  j  militis. 

Walterus  filius  Radulfi,  j  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Lucy,6  j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Radune,7  j  militis. 

Walterus  de  Bigautone  8  et  Durantus  9  Longus,  j  mi¬ 
litis. 

Galfridus  de  Hamme,  j  militis. 

Philippus  filius  Reginaldi,  j  militis. 

Baldewinus  de  Esse,  j  militis. 

Osmund 10  de  Wiford,11  ij  militum. 

Ricardus  de  Duna,  dimidii  militis. 

De  novo  feffamento  12  dedi  Thomae  fratri  meo  feodum 
j  13  militis.  Et  residuum  pertinet  ad  meum  dominium. 

Carta  Warini  de  Aula. 

Domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Warinus  de  Aula 
salutem. 

Robertus  de  Wias14  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 
Willelmus  de  Orsi,  j  militis. 

Robertus  filius  Baldewini,  feodum  j  militis. 


1  Johel,  L.  N. 

2  fef  amento,  L.  N. 

s  trium ,  L.  N. 

4  Wlvarmtone,  L.  N. 

3  llelendone,  L.  N. 

6  Luci ,  L.  N. 

7  Radun,  L.  N. 


8  Bichautone,  L.  N. 

9  Durandus,  L.  N. 

10  Osmundus,  L.  N. 

11  Wisford,  L.  N. 
l2feodamenlo,  L.  N. 

13  unius,  L.  N. 

14  Dewias,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


257 


Devenescira — cont. 

Walterus  de  Lega  et  Reinerus  de  Barri,  feodum  a.d.  1166. 
j  militis. 

Radulfus  de  Nimet,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Marisco,1  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Nicholaus2  de  Tuenertone/  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Baldewini  tenet  iiijtam*  partem 
militis. 

Archebaldus  filius  Stephani,  iiijtam  4  partem  mi¬ 
litis. 

Turbertus,  iiijtam  4  partem  militis. 

Gocelinus  de  Renham,5  vam  6  partem  militis. 

Tantum  7  habeo  de  antiquo  tempore  Regis  Henrici. 

Et  ego  de  meo  dominio  dedi  Roberto  filio  Herdingi,8 
l  feodum  militis. 

Willelmo  9  filio  Anculfi,  j  feodum  et  dimidium.10 
Ricardo11  filio  Anculfi,  vtam6  partem  militis.12 
Et  si  plus  possum 13  inquirere,  faciam  vobis  scire. 

Carta  tenementi  de  Totenesse.14 

Hoc  est  tenementum  de  Totenesse,14  scilicet : — 

Ricardus  filius  Willelmi  x  milites  tenet. 

Robertus  de  Yeteriponte  tenet  feoda  viij  mi¬ 
litum. 

Filia  Willelmi  de  Lingesire,15  viij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Care  ville,  v  milites  et  iijam  partem 10  mi¬ 
litis. 

Willelmus  de  Reyngni,17  ij  milites  et  dimidium  et 
iij  partem  16  dimidii  militis. 


1  Marasco,  L.  N. 

3  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 

3  Sic  in  MSS. 

4  quartam,  L.  N. 

5  Reneham,  L.  N. 

6  quintam,  L.  N. 

7  Tanto,  L.  N. 

8  Erdingi,  L.  N. 

9  Et  Willelmo,  L.  N. 

63377. 


10  3  feodum  et  dimidium  militis, 
L.  N. 

11  Et  Ricardo,  L.  N. 

11  j  feodum  militis,  L.  N. 

13  possim,  L.  N. 

14  Toteneis,  L.  N. 

15  Lmgesre,  L.  N. 

18  et  tertiam  partem,  L.  N. 

17  Rigni,  L.  N. 

R 


258 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SOACCARIO. 


De  VENESCIRA—  cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Wido  de  Bocland,1  ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Sanctae  Mariae  Ecclesia,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Johannis,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Buzun,  viij  milites  et  dimidium ;  et  de 
novo  feffamento,2  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Standes,3  vj  milites. 

Mauricius  de  Pola,  vj  milites. 

Vidua  de  Britaville,  v  milites. 

Ricardus  Bauzan,4  de  novo  feffamento,5  dimidium 
militem. 

Rogerus  Buzun,  dimidium  militem  et  vj  partem 
dimidii  militis  de  novo  feffamento.5 

Radulfus  filii  Stephani,  dimidium  militem  de  novo 
feffamento.6 

Filia  Ricardi  filii  Radulfi,  dimidium  militem  de 
veteri  feffamento.5 

Serio  de  Holne,  vigesimam  partem  j  militis  de 
novo  feffamento.6 

Et  super  dominium  vij  milites,  xija  et  xxa  parte 
minus. 

Fo.  93  d.  CARTA  RoBERTI  FILII  GALFRIDI. 

Ego  Robertus  filius  Galfridi  nullum  militem  habeo 
feodatum  de  veteri  feodamento  de  tempore  Regis  Hen- 
rici  avi  domini  nostri  Regis,  nec  de  novo  feodamento 
post  mortem  ejus.  Sed  de  terra  mea  de  Devonescira 
facio  servitium  j  7  militis  domino  Regi. 


Carta  Willelmi  de  Brahosa.8 

Hii 9  sunt  milites  Willelmi  de  Brahosa 8  de  honore  de 
Berdestaple 10 : — 


1  Boclande,  L.  N. 

2  et  novo  fef amento,  L.  N. 

3  Stantes,  L.  N. 

4  Baucan,  L.  N.,  altered  from 

Baucan  to  Bauzan  in  MS. 

b  fef amento,  L.  N. 


6  feof amento,  L.  N. 

7  unius,  L.  N. 

8  Braosa,  L.  N. 

9  Isti,  L.  N. 

10  altered  in  MS.  from  Berdes- 
trele. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


259 


Devenescira — cont. 

Philippus  de  Chartrai  tenet  feoda  xiij  1  militum,  et  A.D.  1166. 
isti  sunt  milites  Philippi : — 

Ricardus  de  Chartrai. 

Rogerus  de  Omnibus  Sanctis. 

Philippus  filius  Rogeri. 

Radulfus 2  de  Pleistowe. 

Erkenbaldus  de  Pillande. 

Henricus  de  Sitenhille.3 
Ricardus  filius  Bernardi. 

Hugo  de  Dinham. 

Et  Ranulf us  le  Poher  4 ; 

tenent  de  Willelmo  de  Braosa  feodum  trium  militum.5 
Et  isti  sunt  milites  qui  de  Ranulfo  tenent : — 

Willelmus  Poer  6  et 
Willelmus  de  Chetenore. 

Willelmus  filius  Johannis  tenet  feoda  trium  mi¬ 
litum  de  Willelmo  de  Braosa. 

Walterus  filius  Radulfi  tenet  feoda  iiij  militum  de 
Willelmo  de  Braosa. 

Hugo  de  Ralega  tenet  feoda  iij  7  militum. 

Willelmus 8  de  Ruaberga  tenet  feodum  j  militis  de 
Erkenbaldo  Flandrensi. 

Et  Erkenbaldus 9  tenet  de  Willelmo  de  Braosa.10 
Omnes  isti  milites  feodati 11  sunt  de  veteri  feffamento.12 


Summa — xxviij  milites. 


Carta  Radulfi  de  Yaltort. 

Hoc  est  tenementum  Radulfi  de  Yaltort  quod  tenet 
de  Rege  in  capite,  scilicet,  feodum  j  militis. 


1  xiiij,  L.  N. 

2  Robertus,  L.  N. 

3  Siccaville,  L.  N. 

4  Ranulfus  Poher,  L.  N. 

5  tenet  feoda  trium  militum  de 
Willelmo  de  Braosa ,  L.  N. 

6  Poher,  L.  N. 


7  trium,  L.  N. 

3  Et  Willelmus,  L.  N. 

9  There  ia  not  a  new  paragraph 


here  in  L.  N. 


10  Brause,  L.  N. 
ufefati,  L.  N. 

12  fef amento,  L.  N. 


R  2 


260 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Devenescira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  CARTA  HeNRICI  DE  POMEREIA.1 

Milites  honoris  Henrici  de  Pomereia 2 : — 

Willelmus  filius  Walteri,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  Pictavensis.3  iiij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Campeus,4  j  militem. 

Gerardus  filius  Elyae,5  iij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Rogerus  filius  Attardi,6  ij  milites. 

Robertus  filius  Nicholai,7  ij  milites. 

Joslinus8  de  Helyun,j  militem.9 
Joslenus  de  Tribus  Minetis,  ij  milites. 

Thomas  de  Estre,  j  militem. 

Henlega 10  cum  pertinentiis,  j  militem. 

Hugo  Pictavensis  3  ij  milites. 

Joselinus  Dacus,  ij  milites. 

Ricardus  filius  Pagani  de  Ponteford,11  ij  milites. 
Ansgodus  filius  Godwini,  j  militem. 

Ernaldus  de  Sancto  Cristoforo,  j  militem. 
Hamelin  de  Bosleya,12  j  militem. 

Nicholaus  de  Mulchewis,13  dimidium  militem. 

Hii  sunt  feodati  tempore  14  Juliani 15  de  Pomeria : — 
Radulfus  de  Hamberia,  dimidium  militem. 
Robertus  filius  Nicholai,16  dimidium  militem. 
Henricus  de  Otri,  iijam  17  partem  militis. 
Waukenesham,18  iijam  17  partem  militis. 
Hermodeswortha,19  viij  partem  militis. 


1  Carta  honoris  Henrici  de  Pom¬ 
eria,  L.  N. 

2  Pomeria,  L.  N. 

8  Pictaviensis,  L.  N. 

4  Champeus,  L.  N. 

5  Girardus  filius  Helyat ,  L.  N. 

6  Aitardi,  L.  N. 

7  Nicolai,  L.  N. 

8  Joslenus,  L.  N. 

9  Heliun,  L.  N. 

10  Henlegam  in  MS. 


11  Putteford,  L.  N. 

12  Bosleia,  L.  N. 

13  Nicolaus  de  Mulhiwis,  L.  N. 

14  in  tempore,  L.  N. 

15  Julieni,  L  N. 

10  Nicolai,  L.  N. 

17  iij,  L.  N. 

18  Altered  iu  MS.  ;  Wakenesbera, 
L.  N. 

19  Hej-modewrtha,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


261 


Devenescira — cont. 

Willelmus  Blundus,  feodatus  in  terra  Henrici  de  A.D.  1166. 

Pomeria,1 2  viijam2  partem  militis. 

Carta  Willelmi  filii  Reginaldi. 

Ego  Willelmus  filius  Reginaldi  habeo  de  Kege  in 
capite  feodum  unius  militis  de  anno  et  die  quo  Rex 
Henricus  avus  domini  Regis  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus  ;  et 
nullum  habeo  de  novo  feodamento. 

Walterus  modo  habet  tenementum  illud  Nicholaus 
Avenel,  scilicet,  Scepewalle  cum  filia  et  haerede  praedicti 
Willelmi.3 


Carta  Radulfi  Sanz  Aver. 

Radulfus  Sanz  Aver  4  tenet  j  feodum  militis  5  in  capite 
de  Rege. 


Fo.  94.  CORNUBIA. 

Carta  Comitis  Reginaldi. 

Baronia  Comitis  Reginaldi  talis  est  in  Cornubia  : — 
Radulfus  de  Yaultort 6  tenet  feodum  de  lix  militibus, 
tam  in  Devonia  quam  in  Cornubia. 

Ricardus  de  Lucy 7  tenet  de  antiquo  feodo  x  mi¬ 
lites,  et  de  feodo  Adae  Malherbe  ix  milites. 
Robertus  filius  Willelmi  tenet  feodum  de  lj  militi¬ 
bus,  et  de  feodo  Walteri  Hay 8  xx  milites. 


1  Pomerai,  L.  N. 

2  viijy  L.  N. 

3  Sic  in  MS. ;  but  the  passage 

is  evidently  corrupt.  The  true  ver¬ 

sion  is  evidently  that  given  in  L.  N. 

as  follows  : — Valete.  Modo  habet 

feodum  illud  Nicolaus  Avenel,  sci¬ 

licet,  Schepewast  cum  filia  et  harede 


pradicti  Willelmi ;  but  the  conclud¬ 
ing  sentence  is  in  a  later  hand  in 
L.  N. 

4  Sanzaveir,  L.  N. 

5  feodum  unius  militis,  L.  N. 

8  Valtort,  L.  N. 

7  Luci,  L.  N. 

8  Hai,  L.  N. 


262 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Cornubia — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Willelmus  de  Boterel1  tenet  feodum  de  xij  mi¬ 
litibus. 

Rogerus  de  Mandeville  2  tenet  feoda  iij  3  militum. 
Ricardus  filius  Willelmi  tenet  feoda  v  militum. 
Gralanus  tenet  feoda  vij  militum. 

Ricardus  filius  Alvredi  tenet  j  militem.4 5 
Galfridus  filius  Baldewini,  feoda 6 *  x  militum. 

Prior  de  Triwardreit  tenet  feodum  j  militis.  Hoc 
feodum  tenet  Johannes  de  Monte  Acuto,  sicut 
inquisitum  est.c 

Radulfus  de  Tremodret,  feoda 6  ij  militum. 

Daniel  de  Boctone,  feodum  6  j  militis  et  iijam  7  partem 
militis. 

Willelmus  frater  Comitis,  feoda  6  iiij  milites. 
Radulfus  de  Borehard,8 *  feoda  ij  militum. 

Hoel  et  Jordan,  feoda  iij  militum. 

Willelmus  de  Dun,  dimidium  feodum  j  militis.0 
Henricus  de  Pomeria,  feodum  j  militis.10 
Ricardus  filius  Osul[fi],  feodum  j  militis. 

Eiulfus,11  feodum  j  militis. 

Erkenbaldus  filius  Simonis,12  feoda 13  viij  militum, 
tam  in  Devonia  quam  in  Cornubia. 

Summa — ccxv  milites  et  tertia  pars.14 


1  Boterellis,  L.  N. 

J  Mandaville,  L.  N. 

3  iiij,  L.  N. 

4  feodum  j  militis,  L.  N. 

5  L.  N.  inserts  tenet. 

6  Hoc  feodum  —  inquisitum  est 

appears  in  L.  N.  as  a  marginal 

note  in  a  later  hand.  It  has  there¬ 

fore  been  erroneously  incorporated 

with  the  original  Carta  in  the  MS. 


'  tertiam,  L.  N. 

8  Boreharde,  L.  N. 

9  tenet  feodum  j  militis,  L.  N. 

10  tenet  feoda  iij  militum,  L.  N. 

11  Eiulphus,  L.  N. 
u  flius  i S'.,  L.  N. 

13  tenet  feoda,  L.  N. 

14  The  sum  is  entered  in  the  MS. 
as  though  it  were  a  component 
part  of  the  Carta. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


263 


STAFFORDSCIRA.  a.d.  nee. 


Carta  Ricardi  Coventrensis  Episcopi.1 


Domino  suo  venerabili  Henrico,  Regi  Anglorum,  Duci 
Normannorum  et  Aquitannorum,  Comiti  Andegavorum, 
Ricardus,  Dei  gratia,  Coventrensis  Ecclesiae  minister 
humilis,  salutem  et  Dei  benedictionem. 

Mandavit  nobis,  venerande  domine,  Vicecomes  Sta- 
phanus  2  ex  parte  vestra,  quatinus  numerum,  quos  vobis 
debemus,  militum,  qui  fuerunt  feodati  tempore  Henrici 
Regis,  avi  vestri,  et  qui  fuerunt  feodati  post  obitum 
ipsius,  et  eorum  si  quos  in  dominio  tenemus,  et  eorum 
nomina,  scripto  nostro  vestrae  significaremus  majestati. 
Mandata  igitur  vestra,  pro  posse  nostro,  per  omnia  et  in 
omnibus  exequi  volentes,  praesenti  scripto  praedictos 
milites  et  eorum  nomina  significamus  vobis : — 

Margareta  de  Bubendune,  ij  3  milites. 

Robertus  de  Gresleia,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  Silvein,4 5  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Timor,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Galfridi,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Samford,6  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Stafford,  j  militem.6 

Henricus  filius  Geroldi,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Noeel,7  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Handesacre,8  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Tamenhorn,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  Joceram,  dimidium  militem. 

Galfridus  filius  Reineri,9  dimidium  militem. 

Herbertus  Rufius,10  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Pakentone,11  iiij^111 12  partem  militis. 


1  Carta  domini  Coventrensis 
Episcopi ,  L.  N. 

2  Stephanus,  L.  N. 

3  duos,  L.  N. 

4  Selvein,  L.  N. 

5  Stanforde,  L.  N. 

e  militem  omitted  in  L.  N. 


7  Noel,  L.  N. 

8  Handesacra,  L.  N. 
fl  Reigneri,  L.  N. 

10  Herebertus  Rufus,  L.  N. 

11  Pakintone,h.  N. 

12  quartam ,  L.  N. 


264 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  1166. 


Fo.  94  d. 


Staffordscira — cont. 

Adam  de  Mertone,1 2  iiij am  2  partem  militis. 

Entropus 3  Hastengi,  iiijam  2  partem  militis. 

Hamo  de  Mascy'4  et  Willelmus  filius  Duning 5  in  Ces- 
trescira  minutas  tenuras  ab  antiquo  tenent,  unde  num- 
quam  nominatum  servitium  audivimus. 

Isti,  qui  sunt  nominati,  de  tempore  Henrici  Regis,  avi 
vestri,  post  obitum  ipsius,  feodati  sunt 6 : — 

Elias7  filius  Galfridi,  qui  tenet  quintam  partem 
militis. 

Thomas  filius  Roberti,  iiijtam  2  partem  militis. 

Perabel,  vij  8  partem  militis. 

Robertus  filius  Ricardi,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Odonis,  v 9  partem  militis. 

Galfridus  Pecca[tu]m,  iiijam  2  partem  militis. 

De  tempore  etiam  Henrici  Regis,  avi  vestri,  tenent.10 

Walterus  de  Cherlitone,11  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  de  Pipa,  viijam12  partem  militis. 

In  dominio13  nostro  nullum  feodum  militis  tenemus 
ultra  illos  xv  milites,  quos  vobis  debemus.  Sed  quod 
de  eorum  numero  hic  deficit,  de  Camera  nostra  adim¬ 
plere  solemus.  Valeat,  et  in  prosperitate  longo  tempore 14 
duret  sanitas  vestra,  et  regni  vestri  potestas  et  honor. 

Carta  Roberti  de  Staffordia.15 

Robertus  de  Stafford  habet  lx  feoda  de  veteri  feffa- 
mento,16  scilicet,  lj  de  servitio  militum  et  ix  feoda  de 


1  Moretone,  L.  N.,  where  this 
follows  Eutropius  Hastengi. 

2  quartam ,  L.  N. 

3  Eutropius ,  L.  N. 

4  Masci,  L.  N. 

5  Dunning ,  L.  N. 

6  Isti  qui  nominati  sunt,  de 

tempore  Henrici  Regis  avi  vestri 

sunt  feodati. 

Post  obitum  ipsius  feodati  sunt, 

L.  N. 


7  Hclyas,  L.  N. 

8  Parabel  septimam,  L.  N. 

9  quintam,  L.  N. 

10  tenet,  L.  N. 

11  Cherletone,  L.  N. 

12  octavam,  L.  N. 

13  dominico,  L.  N. 

14  tempore  longo,  L.  N. 

15  Stafford,  L.  N. 

16  fef amento,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


20  5 


Staffordscira—  cont. 


dominio  suo,  de  tempore  Henrici  Regis,  die  et  anno,  quo  A.D.  1166. 
fuit  vivus  et  mortuus.  De  supradictis  lj,  tenet : — 

Willelmus  filius  Gilberti,  feoda  iij  1  militum,  scilicet, 
ij  2  in  suo  dominio.  Et  Galfridus  Peron  ij  3  partes  militis 
tenet  de  eo,  et  Radulfus  de  Mobelwic 4  iij  5  partem. 

Robertus  filius  Radulfi  tenet  feoda  vij  militum,  sci¬ 
licet,  ij  3  partes  in  dominio  suo 6 : — 

Ivo  de  Mortonia,7  ij  3  partes  militis  tenet  de  ipso. 

Engenulfus  de  Greseleia,  ij  3  partes. 

Nicholaus8  de  Sardonia,  ij  3  partes. 

Rogerus  de  Icuforde,9  ij  3  partes. 

Ricardus  de  Mara,  ij  3  partes. 

Philippus  de  Nortone,  ij  3  partes. 

Galfridus  Peron,  ij  3  partes  duorum  militum. 

Robertus  filius  Odonis  tenet  feoda  iiij  militum,  sci¬ 
licet,  ij  2  in  suo  dominio  ;  et  de  ipso  tenet, 

Robertus  de  Pecteshulle,10  ij  3  partes  j  militis : — 

Robertus  de  Waura,  ij  3  partes. 

Thomas  de  Cotes,  ij  3  partes. 

Henricus  de  Oyli 11  tenet  feoda  trium  12  militum,  quo¬ 
rum  unum  tenet  filius  Walterus13  de  Tawe  14 ;  alterum 15 
Radulfus  filius  Rogeri,  tertium  16  Radulfus  Boterellus.17 


Willelmus  de  Chainai  tenet  feodum  j  militis,  cujus 
dimidium  tenet  Baldewinus,  et  de  Baldwino  tenet  Pa¬ 
ganus,  frater  ejus,  medietatem. 

Galfridus  Martel  tenet  j  militem,  et 18  Herwicus  de 
Duntesworthe  10  tenet  de  ipso. 


1  trium,  L.  N. 

2  duo ,  L.  N. 

5  duas  ;  Perun  duas,  L.  N. 

4  Mobewic,  L.  N. 

5  tertiam,  L.  N. 

6  in  suo  dominio,  L.  N. 

7  Mottone,  L.  N. 

8  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 

9  Dicforde,  L.  N. 

10  Pecdeshulle,  L.  N. 


11  Oili,  L.  N. 

12  iij,  L.  N. 

15  Sic  in  MS.,  a  later  alteration. 

14  Tywa,  L.  N. 

15  alteram  in  MS.  and  L.  N. 

16  tertiam  in  MS. 

17  Iloterel,  L.  N. 

18  feodum  j  militis  quod,  L.  N. 

19  Herveius  de  Duncheswrthe, 


L.  N. 


266 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Staffordscira — cont. 

A. i).  1166.  Hervicus  Bagot1  tenet  feoda  iij 2  militum,  quorum 
unum  est  in  suo  dominio;  et  Alvredus  de  Hacumby3 
de  ipso  tenet  ij  4  partes  militis ;  et  Herveius  de  Acleia 
iij  am  5  parfcem  militis.  Rualdus  de  .Dulerna,  tertium 
feodum. 

Herveius  de  Strottone  tenet  feoda  ij  militum,  scilicet, 
j  in  suo  dominio,  et  de  altero  Robertus  de  Kardif  6  tenet 
dimidium,  et  Adam  de  Ectone 7  dimidium. 

Rogerus  filius  Henrici  tenet  feoda  trium  militum, 
scilicet,  duo  in  suo  dominio,  et  tertium  tenet  de  ipso 
Willelmus  de  Mera,  et  Ricardus  filius  Noely.8 

Robertus  filius  Pagani  tenet  feoda  ij  militum,  scili¬ 
cet,  unum  in  suo  dominio  ;  et  de  altero  tenet  Nicholaus9 
de  Stokes  dimidium,  et  Nicholaus9  de  Werlestone  di¬ 
midium. 

Robertus  filius  Alein 10  tenet  feodum  j  militis,  et 
iij  am 5  partem  j  militis;  unum11  feodum  in  suo  do¬ 
minio,  et  iijam  5  partem  tenet  de  eo  Radulfus  de  Ro- 
kesby.12 

Hugo  Marscallus 13  tenet  ij  4  partes  militis,14  et  sic  isti 
duo,  Robertus  et  Hugo,  tenent  feoda  ij  militum  in  suo 
dominio.15 

Willelmus  de  Wastimais 16  tenet  feoda  ij  militum  in  suo 
dominio. 

Ranulfus  de  Beumeis 17  tenet  feoda  iij  militum,  quorum 
duo  Johannes  Bigod 18  tenet  de  ipso,  et  Herveius  de  Wil- 
britone  tenet  tertium.19 


1  Herveius  Bagod,  L.  N. 

2  trium,  L.  N. 

3  Hacumbi,  L.  N. 

4  duas,  L.  N. 

5  tertiam,  L.  N. 

6  A  later  alteration  in  MS. ; 
Hardif,  L.  N. 

7  Etone,  L.  N. 

8  Noeli,  L.  N. 

9  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 


10  Aelein,  L.  N. 

11  j,  L.  N. 

12  JRokebi,  L.  N. 

13  Marescallus,  L.  N. 

14  j  militis,  L.  N. 

15  L.  N.  omits  in  suo  dominio. 

16  Was  tineis,  L.  N. 

17  Belmeis ,  L.  N. 

18  Rectius  Bagot. 

19  Wilbrichtone  tertium ,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


267 


Staffordscira — cont. 

Osbertus  Baswinus1  tenet  feoda  iij  militum,  quorum  A.D.  1166. 
j  est  in  suo  dominio,  et  de  altero  Willelmus  de  Gireford  2 
tenet  iij  3  partes,  et  Cadiou  de  Chelda  iiijtam.4  Et  de 
tertio  feodo  Alexander  de  Dentone  [tenet]  dimidium,  et 
Rogerus  de  Crectone 5 *  dimidium. 

Nigellus  filius  Alexandri  tenet  feodum  j  militis  in  suo 
dominio. 

Philippus  filius  Elgod  tenet  feodum  j  militis  et  iijam  6 
partem  in  suo  dominio. 

Galfridus  de  Wastineis  tenet  feodum  j  militis  et 
tertiam  partem  j  militis,  scilicet,  ij 7  partes  in  suo 
dominio,  et  Willelmus  de  Caldona  duas  partes  militis 
tenet  de  ipso. 

Ivo  filius  Ernoldi8  tenet  feodum  j  militis  et  iijam  6 
partem,9  scilicet,  feodum  j  militis  in  suo  dominio.  Et  de 
isto  tenet  Ettrop  de  Estone  iijam  e  partem  j  militis,  et  sic 
isti  tres,  scilicet,  Philippus,  Galfridus  et  Yvo10  tenent 
feoda  iiij  militum. 

Robertus  de  Blora  tenet  feodum  j  militis,  et  iijam 
partem  j  militis  in  suo  dominio ;  et  Willelmus  Bagot 
iij  3  partes  j  militis  tenet ;  et  sic  isti  duo  tenent  feoda 
duorum  militum. 

Walterus  de  Sumerhulle 11  tenet  feoda  ij  militum  in 
suo  dominio. 

Robertus  filius  Willelmi 12  tenet  feodum  j  militis  in  suo 
dominio. 

Radulf  us  Purcel  tenet  ij 7  partes  j  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Penhale,13  ij  7  partes  j  militis  in  suo  do¬ 
minio.  Et  Alanus  de  Covena  ij  7  partes  j  militis  tenet 
de  Galfrido  prsedicto,  et  sic  isti  iij,  Radulfus,  Galfridus 
et  Alanus  tenent  feoda  ij  militum. 


1  Osebertus  Basewinus,  L.  N. 

2  Gretford,  L.  N. 

3  tres,  L.  N. 

4  quartam,  L.  N. 

5  Cretone,  L.  N. 

8  tertiam,  L.  N. 

7  duas,  L.  N. 


8  Ernaldi,  L.  N. 

°  partem  j,  L.  N. 

10  Ivo,  L.  N. 

11  Somerville,  L.  N. 

12  Nigelli,  L.  N. 

13  Copenhale,  L.  N. 


268 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Staffordscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Abbas  de  Evesham  tenet  feodum  j  militis,  quod  Adam 
de  Wrtelege1  tenet  de  ipso.  De  praedictis  lx  feodis 
militum  tenent  ix  feoda  de  dominio  ejus  isti  qui 
sequuntur,2  scilicet : — 

Willelmus  de  Wilteleie.3 

Turstanus  de  Munford.4 

Nicholaus  de  Clectone.5 

Henricus  de  Novo  Burgo. 

Unusquisque  istorum  iiijor,6 7  iiijtam  7  partem  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Walteri. 

Robertus  Bagod. 

Nigellus  filius  Nicholai  de  Tatesaura.8 

Robertus  filius  Noeel.9 

Robertus  de  Brintone.10 

Unusquisque  istorum  iiijor,6  iiijtam  partem  militis. 

Rogerus  Vigil,  iij  11  partes  militis. 

Radulfus  de  Suthleia,  iiijtam.12 

Galfridus  Ridel,  feodum  j  militis. 

Cheswrtha,13  feodum  j  militis,  quod  Johannes  Le- 
strange  14  ei  deforciat.15 

Et  tria  maneria  tenet  Robertus  de  SafFord 16  in  manu 
sua,  de  quibus  facit  servitium  trium  militum;  et  ita 
nichil  habet  in  dominio,  quod  sit  quietum  de  servitio 
militis  j.17 

Et  de  tribus  maneriis,  quae  habet  in  manu  sua,  tenet 
Fo.  95.  Willelmus  Giffard 18  tertiam  partem  militis ;  et  Robertus 
de  Oflewiche 19  tertiam  partem  militis,20  scilicet,  de  novo 
feffamento  post  mortem  Henrici  Regis. 


1  Wroteslega,  L.  N. 

2  sequntur  in  MS. ;  secuntur,  L.  N. 

3  Witeleia,  L.  N. 

4  Mum/ort,  L.  N. 

5  Clottone,  L.  N. 

6  Sic  in  MS. 

7  quartam,  L.  N. 

8  Nicolai  de  Titesoura,  L.  N. 

9  Noeli,  L.  N. 

10  Brientone,  L.  N.  The  e  is 

deleted  in  the  MS. 


11  tres,  L.  N. 

12  Et  Radulfus  de  Suthleia,  quar¬ 
tam,  L.  N. 

13  Chesewurda,  L.  N. 

14  Le  Estrange,  L.  N. 

15  difforciat,  L.  N. 

16  Stafforde,  L.  N. 

17  L.  N.  omits  j. 

18  Gijffardus,  L.  N. 

19  Offeswithe,  L.  N. 

20  j  militis,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


269 


Staffordscira — cont . 

Carta  Gervasii  Paganelli.  a.d.  ii66. 

Domino  suo  dilectissimo  Henrico,  Regi  Anglorum  et 
Duci  Normannorum  et  Aquitannorum,  et  Comiti  Ande- 
gavorum,  Gervasius  Paganellus  salutem. 

Hii  sunt  milites,  de  quibus  debeo  vobis  servitium  : — 

Petrus  de  Brermingham  1  tenet  feoda  ix  militum. 

Galfridus  de  Tiringham  tenet  feoda  iij  militum.2 
Henricus  de  Mohun,3  feodum  j  militis. 

Ricardus  Engaine,  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Castretone,  feodum  j  militis. 

Paganus  de  Cumbertone,4 *  feodum  j  militis. 

Manselinus  de  Eunges,  feoda  ij  militum.6 
Petrus  de  Stanford,6  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Getingedene,7  feodum  j  militis. 

Elias  de  Englesfeld,8  feoda  iij  militum. 

Ricardus  de  Dittone,  feoda  iiij  militum. 

Philippus  de  Hamtone,  feoda  ij  militum. 

Willelmus  de  Albenworthe,9  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Widonis,  feoda  iij  militum. 

Bernardus  de  Frinkeloges,10  feoda  iiij  militum. 

Gervasius  de  Bernet,11  feoda  iiij  12  militum. 

Willelmus  de  Bello  Campo,  feoda  ij  militum. 

Willelmus  de  Haggleges,13  feodum  j  militis. 

Milo  de  Ringestone,  feodum  j  militis  et  dimidii. 

Willelmus  Buffare,  feoda  ij  militum  et  dimidii. 

Robertus  de  Affingetone,14  feodum  j  militis. 

Henricus  de  Oilli  tenebat  feodum  j  militis. 


1  Bremingeham,  L.  N.  The  “  r  ” 
is  a  later  insertion  in  MS. 

2  Giff ardus  de  Tiringeham  feoda 
trium  militum,  L.  N. 

3  Mohum ,  L.  N. 

4  Ember  tone,  L.  N. 

*  Mainfelinus  de  Ovunges  feoda 

duorum  militum ,  L.  N. 

*  Stamforde,  L.  N. 


7  Jetingedene,  L.  N. 

8  Elyas  de  Englefeld,  L.  N. 

9  Abbenwrthe,  L.  N. 

10  Frankeleges,  L.  N. 

11  Berneke,  L.  N. 

12  iiij",  L.  N. 

13  Haggaleges,  L.  N. 

14  Esingetone,  L.  N. 


270 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Staffordscir  a — cont. 

.D.  iiG6.  Haec  est  summa  militum,  de  quibus  antecessores  mei 
antecessoribus  vestris  fecerunt  servitium,  et  ego,  vestri 
gratia,  vobis,  scilicet,  1. 

Et  isti  sunt  milites,  quibus  pater  meus  et  ego  dedimus 
terram  de  dominio  nostro  post  mortem  Henrici  Regis,1 
avi  vestri 2 : — 

Henricus  de  Erdintone,  feodum  j  militis. 

Radulfus  Mansel,  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  Eaganel,3  feodum  j  militis. 

Michael  filius  Osberti  et  Willelmus  de  Lovintone,4 
feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Godwinus  Dapifer,  tertiam  partem  j  militis. 

Walterus  Mansel,  feodum  j  militis. 

Petrus  de  Serkemunt,6  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Ruili,6  tertiam  partem  j  militis. 


Carta  Roberti  de  Brintona. 

Carissimo  domino  suo  7  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  &c., 
suus  homo  ligius  Robertus  de  Brintona  salutem  et  fidele 
servitium. 

Michi,  et  aliis  comparibus  meis,  per  litteras  vestras 
innotuit,  ut  per  fidem  et  ligantiam,  quam  vobis  debe¬ 
mus,  per  breve  nostrum,  pendens  extra  sigillum,  man¬ 
daremus,  quot  milites  habemus  de  veteri  feodamento  de 
tempore  Regis  avi  vestri ;  et  quot  milites  habeamus 
de  novo  feodamento  post  tempus  Henrici  Regis,8  avi 
vestri ;  et  quot  milites  habeamus  super  dominium  nos¬ 
trum.  Inde  est,  quod  vobis  ut  domino  meo  carissimo, 
mando,  quod  de  veteri  feodamento  nullum  militem 
habeo,  praeter  feodum  unum  9  quod 10  michi  cum  quadam 


1  L.  N.  omits  Regis. 

2  L.  N.  adds  scilicet. 

3  Paganellus,  L.  N. 

4  Loventone ,  L.  N. 

5  Surcomunt,  L.  N. 


6  Ruilli,  L.  N. 

~  domino  suo  ligio,  L.  N. 

8  Regis  Henrici ,  L.  N. 

9  unius ,  L.  N. 

10  quern ,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


271 


Staffordscira — cont. 

liberali  muliere,  nomine  Eva,  quse  inde  est  haeres,  per  A.D.  1166. 
servitium  j  militis  dedistis,  faciendo  servitium  ad  custum 
vestrum. 

De  novo  autem  feodo,1  vel  super  dominium  meum, 
nullum  militem  habeo.  Et  vobis  quidem,  et  lilio  vestro, 
ligantiam  et  homagium  2  feci. 

Carta  Bertram  de  Verdone.3 

Totum  tenementum,  quod  Bertram  de  Verdone  4  tenet 
de  Rege  tempore  Henrici  Regis,  fuit  feodum  unius 
militis,  et  tunc  fuit  totum  in  dominio.5  Modo  Bertram 
habet  j  militem  feffatum  de  eodem  dominio.5 

Et  novo  feffamento  6 : — 

Ruelent  de  Herdone,7  dimidium  militem, 

Et  Galfridus  Cheinel,8  dimidium  militem. 

Staffordsira :  Radulfus  de  Somery  habet  de  dono  Regis  Johannis 
maneria  de  Mere  Suneforde  et  Cientes  in  feodo,  per  antiquam 
firmam,  et  centum  solidos  de  incremento,  et  servitium  unius 
militis,  sicut  continetur  in  Memorandis  anni  xv  Regis  Edwardi 
filii  Regis  Edwardi,  inter  Recorda  de  termino  SanctiMichaelis.9 


SALOPESCIRA. 

Carta  Willelmi  filii  Alani. 

De  feodo  Willelmi  filii  Alani  de  Northfolcia 10 : — 
J ohannes  Extraneus  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 
Brien  Le  Chen,11  j  militem. 

Herbertus  12  filius  Gurant,13  j  militem. 


1  feodamento,  L.  N. 

2  hominium ,  L.  N. 

3  Bertrammi  de  Ver  dume,  L.  N. 

4  Verdun,  L.  N. 

*  dominico,  L.  N. 

6  Et  de  novo  fefamento,  L.  N. 

7  Ruelen  de  Verdum,  L.  N. 

8  Chainel,  L.  N. 


9  This  entry  is  inserted  in  the 
MS.  in  a  hand  temp  Edward  II. 
It  is  not  found  in  L.  N.  or  H. 

10  Nortfolcia,  L.  N. 

11  Le  Chien,  L.  N. 

12  Herebertus,  L.  N. 

13  Guranti,  L.  N. 


272 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Salopescira — cont. 

Willelmus  de  Pagrave,  j  militem. 

Eudo  filius  Ernisi,1  j  militem. 

Et  de  istis  quinque  militibus  praenominatis  non  debet 
domino  Regi  nisi  j  2  militem  in  Norfolcia 3  apud 
Garlefli  4  contra  Dacos,  ut 5  antiqui  testantur. 

i)e  feodo  Willelmi  filii  Alani  de  Salopescira  et  de 
pertinentiis  : — 

Rogerus  filius  Odonis  tenet  feodum  j  militis  et 
trium  muntatorum. 

Robertus  filius  Aier,  j  militis  et  j  muntatoris  et 
dimidii. 

Elyas 6  de  Costentin,  j  militis  et  ij  muntatorum. 
Robertus  filius  Halufri,  j  militis  et  ij  munta¬ 
torum. 

Hugo  filius  Alberti,  j  militis  et  iij  muntatorum  et 
dimidii. 

Robertus  filius  Luun,  j  militis. 

Ricardus 7  filius  Henrici,  j  militis. 

Rogerus  Heirun,  j  militis. 

Engerain  de  Wolvrichestone  8  et  Hamo  filius  Ra- 
dulfi,  j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Ridware,9  j  militis. 

Robertus  filius  Radulfi,  j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Maghunhelle,10  j  militis. 

Hamo  de  Sancto  Remigio,  j  militis. 

Ricardus  filius  Tiel,  j  militis. 

Ranulfus  de  Broc,  j  muntatoris. 

Alanus  de  Eadlega,11  j  muntatoris. 

Gwomar  Le  Rotur,  j  muntatoris. 


1  Ernisii,  L.  N. 

2  unum,  L.  N. 

3  Northfolca,  L.  N. 

4  Carlefli,  L.  N. 

5  sicut,  L.  N. 

6  Helyas,  L.  N. 


7  Rogerus,  L.  N. 

8  Engelrcim  de  Wlfrichestone, 
L.  N. 

9  Rideware,  L.  N. 

10  Marchemedl£6,  L.  N. 

11  Headlega,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


273 


Salopescira — cont. 

Henricus  Mauveisin,1  j  muntatoris.  a.d.  1166. 

Ricardus  de  Hidesland,  j  muntatoris. 

Ricardus2  Walensis,  j  muntatoris. 

Ricardus  de  Fronchetone,3  j  muntatoris. 

Nicolaus  de  Broctone,  ij  muntatorum. 

Hugo  de  Cunedoure,  j  muntatoris. 

•  Alanus  de  Uptone,  j  muntatoris. 

Robertus  de  Crintendone,4  j  muntatoris. 

Rogerus  de  Estope,5  j  muntatoris. 

Robertus  de  Tongelonde,6  j  muntatoris. 

Hugo  de  Kintone,7  j  muntatoris. 

Gilbertus8  Anglicus,  j  muntatoris. 

Walterus,  j  muntatoris. 

Nicholaus  9  Maucovenant,  j  muntatoris. 

J  ohannes  de  Hanewode,  j  muntatoris. 

Heming  de  Mortone,10  j  muntatoris. 

Reinerus  de  Brerlectone,11  j  12  muntatoris. 

Nicholaus9  de  Cote,  j  muntatoris. 

Walterus  de  Cavereswelle,  j  muntatoris. 

De  novo  fe  da  men  to 13  Johannis  Extranei,  feoda  ij  mi¬ 
litum.14 

Robertus  Harding,15  j  militis. 

Walterus  Hosatus,  j  militis. 

Walterus  filius  Alani,  ij  militum. 

Gvvido  Extraneus,  dimidii  militis. 

Marescot,  dimidii  militis. 

Radultus  Extraneus,  dimidii  militis. 

Yvo  Pantulf,10  dimidii  militis. 


1  Malveisin,  L.  X. 

2  Rogerus,  L.  N. 

3  Franchetone,  L.  N. 

4  Critendone,  L.  X. 

3  Esthope,  L.  X. 

6  Tungelande,  L.  X. 

7  Cluitone,  L.  X. 

8  Gilebertus,  L.  X. 

9  Nicolaus,  L.  X. 

10  Hemmingus,  L.  N. 

03377. 


11  Brelectone,  L.  X. 

12  dimidii,  L.  X. 

13  fef amento,  L.  X. 

14  Rectius  De  novo  f ef amento ; 
Johannes  Extraneus, feoda  duorum 
militum,  as  in  L.  X. 

13  Altered  from  Arding  in  MS. 
Robertus  de  Ardi,  L.  X. 

18  I  vo  Pan  toy,  L.  X. 

S 


i 


274  LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

Salopescira — cont. 

A. D.  1166.  De1  hoc  tenemento  non  debent2  facere  wardum 3 
nisi  apud  Biancmuster ; 4  et  infra  comitatum  de  Salope¬ 
scira  non  debet  Regi  nisi  x  milites  in  exercitu  et 
chevalcheia  ; 5  et  extra  comitatum  nisi  v  milites,  sicut 
antiqui  testantur. 

De  feodo  Willelmi  filii  Alani  de  Wiltescira : — 

Robertas  de  Tureville,  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertas  filius  Galfridi,  feodum  j  militis. 

Mathseus  de  Tormertone,6  ij  militum. 

Henricus  de  Chaednale,7  j  militis. 

Radulfus  Oloaf,  dimidii  militis. 

Hunfridus  Franchevaler,8  j  militis. 

Adam  de  Paulesholt,  j  militis. 

Petrus  de  Lavintone,  j  militis. 

Sed  non  sumus  certi  quod  servitium  debeat  Regi  de 
hoc  tenemento  quod  fuit  Ernulfi  de  Hestinges.9 

Carta  Galfridi  de  Ver. 

Carissimo  domino  suo  Regi  Anglorum,  Galfridus  10  de 
Ver  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Sciatis  domine  carissime  quod  de  veteri  feodo,11 
scilicet,  de  tempore  Regis,12  avi  vestri,  ix  milites 
habeo  : — 

Walterus  de  Optone,  per  servitium  ij  militum. 

Elias  de  Cliay,13  per  servitium  j  militis. 

Willelmus  Picot,  per  servitium  j  militis. 

Henricus  filius  Hamelin  et  Nicholaus14  de  Sancto 
Laurentio,  per  servitium  j  militis. 


1  Et  de,  L.  N. 

2  debet,  L.  N. 

3  wardam ,  L.  N. 

4  Blancmustier,  L.  N. 

5  chevalchia,  L.  N. 

6  Altered  from  Tormentone  in 
MS. ;  Tonnentone,  L.  N. 

"  Chaedneal,  L.  N. 

8  Humfridus  Franc hevalier,  L.  N. 


9  Hesdinges,  L.  N. 

10  suus  Galfridus ,  L.  N. 

11  feodamento,  L.  N. 

12  Regis  Henrici,  L.  N. 

13  Heliam  de  Tay,  L.  N.  This 
and  the  other  names  in  the  Charter 
are  in  the  accusative  case  in  L.  N. 

14  Nicolaum,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


275 


Salopescira — cont. 

Henricus  de  Sibbetone,  per  servitium  j  militis. 

Baldewinus  de  Stepeltone,1  per  servitium  j  militis 
et  dimidii. 

Rogerus  filius  Eustacii  de  Langefeld,  per  ser¬ 
vitium  j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Bukwel,2  et  Adam  frater 3  ejus,  et  Os- 
bertus  de  Muneta,  et  Tudilius 4  de  Broma,  per 
servitium  j  militis. 

De  novo  autem  feffamento  5  iij  6  milites  habeo  : — 

Simon  de  Haburdino,  per  servitium  j  milites. 

Hinganus  Burnel,7  per  servitium  j  militis. 

Rogerus  Anglus,8  per  servitium  trium  partium 
j  militis. 

Ex  alia  vero  parte  v  milites  habeo  de  honore  Johannis 9 
Senescalli : — 

Radulfus  Pirot,  per  servitium  iiij  militum. 

Radulfus 10  filius  Gery,11  per  servitium  j  militis. 
Valete. 

e 

Carta  Herberti12  de  Castello. 

Carissimo  domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Her- 
bertus  13  de  Castello  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Michi  et  comparibus  meis  mandastis  ut  vobis,  per 
breve  nostrum  pendens  extra  sigillum,  mandaremus  quot 
milites  antiquitus  feodatos  de  tempore  Regis  Henrici 
avi  vestri  haberemus,  et  quot  de  novo  feodamento. 
Inde  est  quod  vobis  mando  quod  de  veteri  feodamento 
non  habeo  nisi  v  milites,  scilicet : — 

Ranulfus  de  Belemeins,14  per  servitium  j  militis. 


1  Stapeltone,  L.  N. 

2  Bukwelle,  L.  N. 

3  fratrem,  L.  N. 

4  Tudelium ,  L.  N. 

5  feodamento,  L.  N. 

6  tres,  L.  N. 

7  Burelle,  L.  N. 

s  2 


°  itogerum  Anglicum,  L.  IS. 

9  Jonis,  L.  N. 

10  Et  Radulfum,  L.  N. 

11  Geri,  L.  N. 

12  Hereberti,  L.  N. 

13  Herebertus,  L.  N. 

14  Sic  iu  MS. ;  Belmeis,  L.  N. 


276 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCAOOARIO. 


Salopescira — cont. 

A.D.  i  Ur6.  Et  Herleswinum  1  de  Dodamantones,  per  servitium 
j  militis. 

Willelmum  de  Bulardone,2  per  servitium  j  militis. 

R.  de  Holda,  per  servitium  j  militis. 

Hamonem  filium  Buteleri,  per  servitium  j  militis. 
De  novo  feffamento  3  nullum  militem  de  vestro  tene- 
mento.  Et  hii  omnes  ligantiam  et  homagium  vobis4 

O  O 

fecerunt.  Valete. 


Carta  Widonis5  Extranei. 

Gwido  Extraneus  tenet  de  Rege  Alwinum  de  Le¬ 
gam  6  per  servitium  dimidii  militis. 


Carta  Johannis  Extranei. 

Johannes  Extraneus  tenet  de  Rege  Nessam  et 
Chesewrthe,  per  servitium  unius  militis  et  dimidii. 

Garta  Engelardi  de  Strattone. 

Carissimo  domino  suo  Henrico  Rem  Anglorum,  En- 
gelardus  de  Strattone  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Miclii  et  ceteris  comparibus  meis  qui  de  vobis  tene¬ 
mus  in  capite  per  litteras  7  vestras  mandastis 8  ut  vobis, 
per  breve  nostrum  pendens  extra  sigillum,  mandaremus 
quot  milites  habeamus9  de  veteri  feodamento  de  tem¬ 
pore  Henrici  Regis 10  avi  vestri,  et  quot  habeamus  de 
novo  feodamento.  Ideo  vobis  ut  domino  meo  caris¬ 
simo  mando,  quod  non  babeo  nisi  unum  solum  militem, 
scilicet,11  Ricardum  filium  Odonis. 

De  novo  autem  feodamento  nullum  [militem] 12  habeo. 


1  Helewinum,  L.  N. 

-  Bullardone,  L.  N. 

3  fef amento,  L.  N. 

*  Vobis  liominium  et  ligantium 
fecerunt,  L.  N. 

5  Gwidonis,  L.  N. 

6  Sic  in  MS. ;  Alvindelegam,  L.  N. 


7  literas,  L.  N. 

8  mandavistis,  L.  N. 

9  haberemus,  L.  N. 

10  scilicet,  de  tempore  Regis,  L.  N. 

11  scilicet  omitted  in  L.  N. 

12  nullum  militem ,  L.  N, 


Liber  rubeus  de  scaccario. 


277 


Salopescira — cont. 

Carta  Philippi  filii  Hologodi.1  a.d.  H66. 

Ego  Philippus  filius  Elgodi  debeo  servitium  unius 
militis  per  xl  dies  in  castello  de  Scrawardin,2  sicut  sole¬ 
bant  facere  antecessores  mei. 

Carta  Roberti  de  Britone.3 

Carissimo  domino  suo  ligio  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum, 
etc.,  suus  homo  ligius  Robertus  de  Britone  3  salutem  et 
fidele  servitium. 

Michi  et  aliis  comparibus  meis  per  litteras  4  vestras 
innotuistis  ut  per  fidem  et  leganti  am,5  quam  vobis 
debemus,  per 6  breve  nostrum  pendens  extra  sigillum 
mandaremus  quot  milites  haberemus-  de  veteri  feoda- 
mento  de  tempore  Henrici  Regis  avi  vestri,  et  quot 
milites  haberemus 7  de  novo  feodamento  post  tempus 
Regis  Henrici  avi  vestri,  et  quot  milites  habeamus  super 
dominium  nostrum.  Inde  est  quod  vobis  ut  domino  meo 
carissimo  mando  quod  de  veteri  feodamento  nullum 
militem  habeo  praeter  feodum  unius,8  quem  mihi  cum 
quadam  muliere,9  nomine  Eva,  quae  inde  est  haeres,  per 
servitium  j  8  militis  dedistis,  faciendo  servitium  ad 
custum  vestrum. 

De  novo  autem  feodamento  nullum  habeo  militem 
vel  super  dominium  meum.  Et  vobis  quidem  et  filio 
vestro  ligantiam  et  homagium  fecerunt.10 

Walterus  de  Clifford  tenet  Corpham,11  et  Culmintone, 
et  Haiam  de  Ernestowe,12  et  les  Clives,13  per  servitium 
unius  militis. 


1  Carta  Philippi  Elgodi,  L.  N. 

2  Sewardm,  L.  N. 

3  See  also  p.  270,  and  Wrottes- 
ley’s  Liber  Niger  for  Staffordshire, 
I.  205  ;  Brintone,  L.  N. 

4  literas,  L.  N. 

5  ligantiam,  L.  N. 

6  vobis  per,  L.  N. 

7  habeamus,  L.  N. 


8  j'“,  L.  N. 

9  quadam  liberali  muliere,  L.  N. 

10  Sic  in  MS.  ;  hominium  et  ligan¬ 
tiam  feci,  L.  N. 

11  Corfham,  L.  N. 

12  Ernestou,  L.  N. 

13  Lcsclives,  L.  N.  This  entry  is 
in  a  later  hand  in  L.  N. 


278 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SC  ACC  ARIO. 


A.D.  1166. 
Fo.  96  d. 


HEREFORD  1  IN  W  ALLIA. 

Carta  Episcopi  Herfordiensis  2  de  militibus  et 

feodis  suis. 

Haec  sunt  nomina  militum  feodatorum  de  Episcopatu 
Herfordiensi : — 

Willelmus  de  Bello  campo  facit  servitium  j  3  militis. 

Walterus  de  Clifford,  j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Dovra,4  j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Duddeleia,5  j  militis. 

Johannes  de  Biscopestone,  j  militis. 

Rogerus  le  Poher,6  j  militis. 

Roge  rus  de  Morton  e,  j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Hasla,7  j  militis. 

Adam  de  Capies,  j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Walford,8  j  militis. 

Radulfus  Foliot  et  Radulfus  Pere  et  Radulfus  filius 
Ernoldi,9  j  militis. 

Arnulfus  de  Estnover,10  et  Hugo,  et  Willelmus  filius 
Gerini,  et  Johannes,  et  Willelmus  de  Alchurges,11 
et  Godefridus  Ruddoc  faciunt  j  militem.12 

Ricardus  de  Huntelande 13  et  Baderon,  j  militis. 

Johannes  de  Stanford,  et  Radulfus  de  Munesleia,  et 
Willelmus  de  Froma,  et  Walterus,  et  Robertus  de 
Cradeleia,  et  Gilbertus  Cletera,14  et  Bernardus 
de  Brochantone,15  et  Ricardus  de  Huntelande,13 
et  Rogerus  de  Wallia  16  faciunt  servitium  j  mi¬ 
litis. 


1  Hereforde,  L.  N. 

2  Herefordiensis ,  L.  N. 

3  unius,  L.  N. 

4  Duma,  L.  N. 

5  Dudeleia,  L.  N. 

6  Rogerxis  Poher,  L.  N. 
'  Hasela,  L.  N. 

8  Waif  or  de,  L.  N. 


**  Ernaldi,  L.  N. 

10  Aiulfus  de  Estenover,  L.  N. 

11  Alchruge,  L.  N. 

12  servilium  j  militis,  L.  N. 

13  Huntilande,  L.  N. 

14  Gilebertus  de  Cletera,  L.  N. 

15  Brochamtone,  L.  N. 

16  Walla,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


279 


Hereford  in  Wallia — cont. 

Praeter  hoc1  tenet  Hugo  de'  Lacy  2  feodum  ij  3  mi-  A.D.  1166. 
litum,  unde  et  ipse  fecit  servitium  totum 4  toto  tem¬ 
pore  Gilberti 5  Episcopi  ;  sed  modo  negat  servitium 6 
dimidii  militis. 

Margareta  de  Boun7  tenet  feoda  ij  militum  et  di¬ 
midii  ;  sed  modo  negat  inde  servitium  dimidii  militis. 

Sed  haec  quatuor  feoda  militum  et  dimidium  sunt  de 
dominio  Episcoporum  et  debent8  esse  de  eorum  dominio. 

Carta  Ad.e  de  Port. 

Domino  suo  carissimo  Hernico  Regi  Anglorum,  Adam 
de  Port  salutem  et  fidelia  servitia. 

Sciatis,  domine  dilectissime,  quod  isti  sunt  milites 
mei  de  veteri  feffamento 9 : — 

Hugo  de  Lascy3  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Radulfus  de  Baskerville,  j  militis. 

Walterus  dei  Fresne,10  j  militis. 

Radulfus  dei  Fresne,10  iij  militum. 

Walterus  de  Aveberi,11  j  militis. 

Thomas  del  Fresne,12  j  militis. 

Rogerus  filius  Radulfi,  j  militis. 

Beatrix,  quae  fuit  uxor  Rogeri  de  la  Folie,13  ]  mi¬ 
litis. 

Michael  filius  Alvredi,  j  militis. 

Bartholomaeus  de  la  Hose,  j  militis. 

Kicardus  de  la  Folie,13  ij  milites.14 

Henricus  filius  Geroldi,  j  militis. 

Femina  quae  fuit  Roberti  de  Columbariis,  j  militis. 


1  Prater  hac,  L.  N. 

2  Laci,  L.  N.' 

3  duorum,  L.  N. 

4  unde  ipse  fecit  totum  servitium, 

L.  N. 

5  Gileberti,  L.  N. 

6  inde  servitium,  L.  N. 

7  JBohum,  L.  N. 


8  deherent,  L.  N. 

9  fef amento,  L.  N. 

10  del  Freisne,  L.  N 

11  Aneberi,  L.  N. 

12  del  Franc,  L.  N. 

13  Lafolie,  L.  N. 

14  Sic  in  MS. 


280 


LIBER  RUBEUS  I)E  SCACCARIO. 


Hereford  in  Wallia — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Willelmus  de  Musters,* 1  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Putredham,2  ij  militum. 

Walterus  de  Donstan ville,3  j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Vautort,4  dimidii  militis. 

Guerri 5  de  Mairinnis,6 *  dimidii  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Landa,  iiijtam  7  partem  j  militis. 

Hugo  Pincerna,  vtam  8  partem  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Cormelles,9  vtam  8  partem  militis.10 
Isti  sunt  de  novo  feffamento11  post  mortem  Regis 
Henrici : — 

Robertus  de  Port,  dimidium  militem. 

Odo  de  Arguges,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  Grassus,  iijam  12  partem  j  militis. 

Alvredus  de  Fresne,13  iijam  12  partem  militis. 


Carta  Baderun  de  Munemuda.14 


Domino  suo  carissimo15  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Bade¬ 
run  de  Munemuda 14  salutem. 

Domine,  audivi  praeceptum  vestrum  in  Herefordia,16 
quod  17  mandarem  vobis,18  per  breve  meum 19  extra  sigil¬ 
lum  pendens  vobis  notificarem,  quot  milites  de  veteri 
feodo  feodatos  haberem.  Ego  autem  praecepto  vestro 
obedire  paratus,  nomina  eorum  20  notavi,  scilicet21 : — 
Thomas  filius  Pagani,  ij  milites. 

Ranulfus  Brito,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Coleville,  j  militem. 


1  Mustier s,  L.  N. 

2  Putredeharn,  L.  N. 

3  Dunstanville ,  L.  N. 

4  Valletort,  L.  N. 

5  Gwerri,  L.  N. 

6  Marinni,  L.  N. 

'  quartam,  L.  N. 

8  quintam,  L.  N. 

9  Cormeiles,  L.  N. 

10  militis,  L.  N. 

11  feodamento,  L.  N. 

12  tertiam,  L.  N. 


13  del  Freisne,  L.  N. 

14  Baucleri  de  Monemuda,  L.  N. 

15  Domino  suo,  L.  N. 

16  in  consulatu  Herefordia,  L.  N. 
Consulatu  is  erased  in  the  MS. 

l"  scilicet  quod,  L.  N. 

18  vobis  mandarem,  L.  N. 

19  Sic  in  MS.  ;  et  per  breve  meum, 

L.  N.,  but  the  readings  are  probably 

corrupt. 

20  eorum  written  twice  in  MS. 

21  videlicet,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


281 


Hereford  in  W allia — cont. 

Jordanus,  j  militem. 

Hugo  Forester,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Roberti,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Radulfi,  et  Elvredus  1  de  Neuham,2 
et  Ywein3  filius  Andreae,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Marisco,  et  Galfridus  de  Corter,4  et 
Engeleru  ,  et  Walterus  Marmiun,  et  Hugo  de 
Garthe,5  unum  militem. 

Ego  vero  in  obitu  uxoris  mese,  pro  anima  ejus,  dedi 
fratribus  Hospitalis  Jerusalem,  feodum  j  militis. 

Isti  decem  sunt  de  antiquo  tenemento ;  de  novis 
feodatis  nullum  habeo. 

Praeterea  de  dominio  meo  debeo  vobis  v  6  apparare. 

Carta  Willelmi  filii  Reginaldi  de  Baalun.7 

Willelmus  filius  Reginaldi  facit  de  dominio  suo  ser¬ 
vitium  unius  8  militis. 

Hamelinus  de  Balun,  avus  suus,  feodatus  fuit  de  veteri 
feodamento  9  ad  servitium  praedicti  militis  faciendum  ; 
deficit  ei  Cheverel,  quae  est  de  10  praecepto  domini  Regis, 
et  honor  de  Bergeveni,  unde  deberet  servitium  suum 
domino  Regi  si  ei  placeret. 

De  novo  feodamento  9  nullum  habet  feffatum.11 

Carta  Hugonis  de  Lascy.12 

Hii  sunt  milites  quos  ego  Hugo  de  Lascy  teneo  13  de 
antiquo  feodo  de  domino  14  Rege  : — 

Robertus  de  Baskerville,15  viij 16  milites. 


1  Elfredus ,  L.  N. 

2  Niweham,  L.  N. 

3  Iwein,  L.  N. 

4  Coither,  L.  N. 

*  Garth,  L.  N. 

6  quinque ,  L.  N. 

i  Carta  Willelmi  filii  Reginaldi 
L.  N. 

3  j,  L.  N. 


9  fef 'amento,  L.  N. 

10  in,  L.  N. 

11  fefatum,  L.  N. 

12  L  aci,  L.  N. 

13  quos  Hugo  de  Luci  tenet,  L.  N. 

14  domino  suo,  L.  N. 

15  Baskeville,  L.  N. 

16  se  v‘"  milite,  L.  N. 


282 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

Hereford  in  Wallia — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Ricardus  de  Eskotot,1  iij  milites.2 

Roland  de  Bureford,3  iij  milites. 

Godefredus  de  Gamages,  ij  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Cormeliis,  ij  milites. 

Filins  Rocelin  4  Tirel,  ij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Ebroicis,  iiij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Bakintone,  iiij  milites. 

Rodland  de  Mimesleia,5  iij  milites. 

Feodum  de  Cuillaardville,6  iij  milites. 

Feodum  Walteri  de  Ebroicis,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Lega,  iij  milites. 

Nicholaus  7  de  Hungerford,8  iiij  milites. 

Elyas9  de  Sai,  iij  milites  quos  recognoscit,10  duos 
autem  negat 11  a  quibus  praedictus  Hugo  non 
potest  habere  servitium  antequam  derationati 12 
sint. 

Willelmus  de  Furcis,  ij  milites,  et  j  in  calumpnia,  a 
quo  non  habeo  nec  unquam  habui  servitium. 
Philippus  de  Cernefeld,13  dimidium  militem  et 
dimidium  in  calumpnia. 

Walterus  del  Mans,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Michael,  iiijtami*  partem  militis. 
Rogerus  de  Ewias,  j  militem. 

Hii  sunt  milites  quos  praedictus  Hugo  tenet  de  Rege 
et  hos  tenuerunt  antecessores  sui  tempore  Henrici  Regis. 
De  novo  feodo  post  mortem  Henrici  Regis  : — 
Herbertus  15  de  Castello,  ij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Eskotot,1  feodum  j  militis. 


1  Esketot,  L.  N. 

2  se  iij  milite,  L.  N.  Se  appears 
to  have  been  erased  in  the  MS. 

3  Rodland  de  Bucforde,  L.  N. 

4  Rocelini,  L.  N. 

5  Radland  de  Munesleia,  L.  N. 

6  Cuillavilla,  L.  N. 

7  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 


8  Hungerforde,  L.  N. 
0  Helyas,  L.  N. 

10  recongnoscit  in  MS. 

11  denegat,  L.  N. 

12  dirationati,  L.  N. 

13  Sernefcld,  L.  N. 

14  quartam,  L.  N. 

15  Herebertus,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


283 


Hereford  in  Wallia—  cont. 

Willelmus  de  Opetone,* 1  j  militem.  A.D.  1 1 66. 

Rogerus  filius  Odonis,  j  militem. 

Feodum  de  Cauledone,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  Brito  tenet  de  dominio  praedicti  Hugonis 
c  solidatas  terrae,  sed  servitium  nunquam  fuit 
statutum  et  tamen  ejus  homo  est.2 

Radulfus  3  de  Ricetote,4  similiter. 

Adam  de  Putipo,  similiter. 

Anketil  de  Eskotote,5  similiter. 

Willelmus  de  Eskotote,5  similiter. 

Filius  Gerardi  de  Macgne,6  similiter. 

Rogerus  de  Scorchebofe,7  similiter. 

Et  Bartholomaeus,  similiter. 

Ricardus  Brito  et  illi  qui  post  ipsum  sunt  nominati 
tenent  de  domino  Hugone  sine  servitio  aliquo  quod  eis 
statutum  sit.  Nullus  istorum  plus  tenet 8  quam  c  soli¬ 
datas  terrae,  praeter  Bartholomaeus,  qui  tenet  vj  libratas. 

Quidam  de  istis  sunt  mecum  residentes  et  invenio  eis 
necessaria.  Et  quidam  sunt  in  domibus  meis  in  Wallia 
et  invenio  eis  necessaria. 

Alvredus  de  Fraxino  tenet  j  virgatam. 

Sciat  dominus  Rex  quod  hic  nomino  omnes  milites 
qui  de  me  tenent  in  Anglia,  sive  parvum  sive  magnum, 
unde  memor  sim.  Et  feodum  j  militis  de  feodo  antiquo, 
quod  oblitus  sum,  feodum  Willelmi  de  Burehopa,  quod 
tenet  Hugo  de  Longo  Campo  in  maritagio. 


Carta  Hugonis  Filii  Willelmi  Forestarii.  istam  baro- 

main  tenuit 

Hugo  filius  Willelmi  Forestarii  de  Herford  9  in  Wallia  Side 
habet  de  veteri  feffamento  10  iiijtam  11  partem  j  militis.  vocabatur 

_  baronia  do 


1  Hopetone,  L.  N. 

2  homo  ejus  est,  L.  N. 

3  Et  Radulfus,  L.  N. 

4  Rictot,  L.  N. 

5  Eschetot,  L.  N. 

6  y  written  on  an  erasure  in  MS. ; 

Machne,  L.  N. 


7  Scorchebof  L.  N. 

8  tenet  plus,  L.  N. 

9  Herefordscira,  L.  N. 

10  fefamento,  L.  N. 

11  quartam,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RltBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  1166. 

Purbek, 
sicut  conti¬ 
netur  in  ro¬ 
tulo  v*'  Re¬ 
gis  Ricardi 
in  hoc  comi¬ 
tatu.  Postea 
Hugo  de 
Kilpek  filius 
ejus  qui 
habuit  ij 
filias,  sicut 
cotinentur 
in  rotulo 
xxviij  Regis 
Henrici 
Tertii.4 


Fo.  97  d. 


284 


Hereford  in  W allia — cont. 

De  feodo  Eutrops  filii  Hingan,1  et  de  feodo  Hugonis 
filii  Waldinges,  iiijtam  3  partem  j  militis. 

Super  dominium,  j  militem. 

De  novo  feodamento 3  nullum  habet. 

Carta  Ricardi  de  Can  dos. 

Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  sicut  domino  carissimo,  Ri- 
cardus  de  Candos  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Notum  vobis  facio  quot  milites  habeo  f effatos 5  de 
veteri  et  de  novo  feffamento,  videlicet : — 

Petrus  de  Stokes  tenet  feoda  ij  6  militum,  j  7  de 
veteri  et  aliud  de  novo  feffamento.3 

Willelmus  de  Droeis,8  feoda  ij 6  militum  de  veteri 
feodo. 

Gilbertus  9  Marescallus,  feodum  j  militis  de  veteri 
feodo. 

Nicholaus  de  Campo  Florum,10  feodum  j  militis  et 
tertiam  partem  militis  de  veteri  feffamento.11 

Adarn  de  Bedingedene  tenet 12  feodum  j  militis  et 
tertiam  partem  militis  dum  vixit,  et  habeo  haere¬ 
dem  et  terram  in  manu  mea  de  veteri  feodo. 

Willelmus  de  Haia,  feodum  j  militis  et  dimidii  de 
veteri  feodo.13 

Et  ego  dedi  Ricardo  Tallebaut,14  feodum  dimidii 
militis  de  veteri  feodo. 

Philippus  Aliz,15  feodum  dimidii  militis  de  veteri 
[feodo]. 


1  Hingani ,  L.  N.,  where  there  is 
no  break  at  De  feodo  Eutrops. 

2  quartum,  L.  N. 

3  fef amento,  L.  N. 

4  Marginal  note  in  a  hand  temp. 
Edward  I. 

5  feofatos,  L.  N. 

6  duorum,  L.  N. 

7  unum,  L.  N. 


8  Le  Droeis,  L.  N. 

9  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

10  Nicolaus  de  Champo  Florum, 
L.  N. 

1J/[eoc?o],  L.  N. 

12  ten  [tat], 

13  de  veteri,  L.  N. 

14  Talebot,  L.  N. 

15  A l is,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIQ. 


285 


Hereford  in  Wallia — cont. 

Rogerus  de  Burechulle,1  feodum  dimidii  militis  A.D.  1 1 66. 
de  veteri  feodo  quod  Nigellus  de  Vitenstane 2 
tenuit. 

Pater  meus  dedit  apud  Lantoniam  feoda  ij  3  mi¬ 
litum  in  elemosina  de  veteri  feodo,  scilicet, 

Felileie4  et  Kenecestre. 

Radulfus  de  Tonai,5  dimidium  militem  de  veteri 
feodo,  ad  regale  servitium ;  et  ad  meum  servitium 
militem  plenarium  in  custu  meo  in  exercitu  et 
chivalcliia  et  custodia.6 

Dominus  Rex  mandavit  michi  quod  ego  concederem 
dominis  Hospital[ariis],  feodum  dimidii  militis  de 
veteri  feodo,  quod  tenuit  R.  de  Lamartre,  salvo 
servitio  meo,  et  concessi  pro  amore  illius. 

Rogerus  de  Candos,  feoda  ij  3  militum  de  novo  feodo 
de  meo  dominio. 

Hugo  de  Candos,  feodum  j  7  militis  de  novo  feodo 
de  meo  dominio.  Valete. 

Carta  Ricardi  de  Cormelles.8 

Henrico  R:>gi  Anglorum,  etc.,  Ricardus  de  Cormeilles 
salutem. 

Sciatis  quod  ego  habeo  vj  milites  feffatos  9  de  veteri 
feffamento,10  scilicet : — 

Ricardus  de  Solariis,  de  feodo  iij  militum. 

Walterus  filius  Hingani,  de  feodo  j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Stotot,11  de  feodo  j  militis. 

Robertus  filius  Willelmi  et  Willelmus  de  Colle- 
burne,12  de  feodo  unius 13  militis. 


1  Burchulle,  L.  N. 

2  Hwitenstone ,  L.  N. 

3  duorum ,  L.  N. 

4  Felilege,  L.  N. 

5  Radulfus  Tornai,  L.  N. 

6  chevalchia  et  in  custodia,  L.  N. 

i  unius,  L.  N. 


8  Cormeilles ,  L.  N, 

9  feofatos,  L.  N. 

10  fef amento,  L.  N. 

11  Scettot,  L.  N. 

12  Colebume,  L.  N. 
*j,  L.  N. 


286 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Hereford  in  Wallia — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Et  de  novo  feffamento  1 : — 

Alexander  de  Corneilles,2  fratrem  meum,  de  feodo 
j  militis  de  meo  dominio. 

Et  ego  facio  servitium  iij  3  militum  de  meo  do¬ 
minio. 

Carta  Roberti  de  Weias.4 

Hoc  sciendum  est,  quot  milites  sunt  feodati 5  de  feodo 
Roberti  de  Eweias.4 
Ruald,6  v  milites. 

Godefridus  Escudor,  iiij  feoda  militum. 

Adam  de  Celegord,  j  feodum  militis. 

Lucas  de  Tirintone,7  j  feodum  militis. 

Osmundus  de  Sumerford,  j  feodum  militis. 

Neeldus  de  Mordune,8  j  feodum  militis. 

Morel  de  Hedendone,9  j  feodum  militis. 

De  Cliva  10  quam  Rogerus  de  Wias  tenet,  j  feodum 
militis. 

Willelmus  de  Cheinetone,11  j  feodum  militis. 
Godefridus  de  Mamintone,12  j  [militem]  de  feodo 
meae  castella  riae  de  E  wias.13 
Ricardus  de  Carlevile,14  j  feodum  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Pontonia,  j  feodum  militis. 

Et  de  illis  qui  sunt  feodati  de  dominio  meo 15  post 
mortem  Henrici  Regis.13 

Godefridus  de  Tifente,17  j  feodum  militis. 

Willelmus  Torrellus 18  de  Pencumbia,19  ij  feoda  mi¬ 
litum. 


1  fef  'amento,  L.  N. 

2  Cormeilles,  L.  N. 

3  trium,  L.  N. 

4  Altered  in  MS. ;  Wias,  L.  N. 

*  Jeofdti,  L.  N. 

6  Rualdus,  L.  N. 

‘ "  Tidrintone,  L.  N. 

8  Mordone,  L.  N. 

9  Heddendone,  L.  N. 

19  Clivia,  L.  N. 


11  Cheinettone,  L.  N. 

12  Manintone,  L.  N. 

13  castelleria  de  Wias,  L.  N. 

14  Carleville,  L.  N. 

15  meo  dominio,  L,  N. 

16  liegis  Henrici,  L.  N. 

17  Tifonte,  L.  N. 

18  Torellus,  L.  N. 

19  Sic  in  MSS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


287 


Hereford  in  Wallia — cont. 

Robertas  de  Mortuo  mari  tenet  xxiij  feoda  in  honore  A.D.  mo. 
Castelli  Ricardi  cum  filia  Hugonis  de  Say  hserede 
Osberti  filii  Hugonis.1 

O 


Fo.  98.  GLOUCESTRESCIRA. 

Carta  Abbatis2  de  Winchecitmba. 

Ecclesia  de  Winchecumba  habet  unum  feodum  de 
veteri  feodamento ;  et  omnes  isti  tenent  illud  fefia- 
mentum  3 : — 

Rogerus  de  Dichestone.4 
Willelmus  de  Bello  Campo. 

Willelmus  de  Sireburne.5 
Jordanus  de  Brochamtone. 

Azo  de  Wenritha.6 
Nicholaus  7  de  Tweninge.8 
Rogerus  de  Hesa. 

Willelmus  Morin. 

Gilbertus  de  Frolintone.9 
Simon  de  Chulunces. 

Willelmus  de  Dunetrop.10 
Hugo  de  Radeford.11 
Willelmus  de  Chivieseia.12 


1  This  entry  is  obviously  a  later 
addition  in  L.  N.  The  contempo¬ 
rary  return  will  he  found  under 
Northamptonshire.  The  four  follow¬ 
ing  entries  are  carefully  erased  in 
the  MS.,  but  are  inserted  in  L.  N. 
in  a  still  later  hand  :  —  Henricu.1  de 
Longo  campo  tenet  Wiltone  pro  j 
feodo.  Gillebertus  Thalebothe,  j 
feodum  in  Lintone  in  Hereford  in 
Wallia.  Thomas  Mauduit ,  j  feo¬ 
dum  in  Wermenistre  in  Wiltesira. 
Robertus  de  Ameneville  tenet  (sic). 


2  Abbatice,  L.  N. 

3  fef 'amentum,  L.  N. 

4  JD  idles  done,  L.  N. 

5  Scireburne,  L.  N. 

6  Wenricha,  L.  N. 

7  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 

8  Substituted  for  Toninge  in  MS. 
in  a  later  hand  ;  Toninge,  L.  N. 

9  Gilebertus  de  Froulintone,  L.  N. 

10  Dunetrope,  L.  N. 

11  Redeford,  L.  N. 

12  Altered  in  MS.  ;  Chiveleia , 


288 


LIBER  RUBE  ns  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Gloucestrescira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  De  novo  feffamento  1 : — 

Hunfridus  de  Sireburne  2  tenet  j  hidatn. 

Et  super  dominia  j  feodum  militis. 

Novum  appositum  de  honore  de  Struguile. 

Willelmus  Marscallus3  Comes  Penbroc  debet  lxv 
milites  et  dimidium  de  honore  de  Struguille.4 
Idem  debet  ij  milites  de  Castello  Godrici. 

Idem  debet  de  Penbroc. 


Carta  Willelmi  Comitis  Gloucestrle. 

Hic  est  rotulus  militum  Willelmi  Comitis  Gloucestriae, 
sine  suis  militibus  de  Kent : — 

Jordanus  Sorus  debet  xv  milites. 

Robertus  de  Maru,5  x  milites. 

Waite  rus  de  Claville,  x  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Roberti  filii  Rogeri,  x  milites. 

Elias  aureis  testiculis,  x  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Johannis,  x  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Sancto  Quintino,  x  milites. 

Gilbertus  de  Hunfram ville,6  ix  milites. 

Feodum  quod  fuit  Roberti  de  Gornac[o],  ix  milites. 
Filius  Willelmi  filii  Baldewini,  ix  milites. 

Robertus  de  Maysy,7  ix  milites. 

Feodum  quod  fuit  Ricardi  de  Grein ville,  vij  mi¬ 
lites. 

Adam  de  Sumeri,  vij  milites. 

Feodum  quod  fuit  Eliae 8  de  Dictone,  vj  milites. 

Et  Gregorius  habet  inde  septimum,  sicut  c  nsidera- 
tum  fuit  coram  Roberto  Comite  Gloucestriae. 


1  fef  amento,  L.  N. 

2  Hunfridus  de  Scirebume,  L.  N. 

3  Marescnllus,  L.  N. 

4  Striguille,  L.  N. 


5  Mara,  L.  N. 

6  Gilebertus  de  Unfranville ,  L.  N. 

7  Maisi,  L.  N. 

8  Helice,  L.  N, 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


289 


Gloucestrescira — cont. 

Rogerus  Witenge,  vij  milites.  A.D.  1166. 

Pontius  filius  Simonis,  viij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Reini,  v  milites. 

Johannes  Eskeling,1  iiij  milites. 

Rogerus  Waspaile,2  v  milites. 

Feodum  quod  fuit  Guefr[idi]  de  Clintone,  v  mi¬ 
lites. 

Walterus  de  Caisneio,  v  milites. 

Guefr[idus]  de  Trailli,3  iiij  milites. 

Filius  Henrici  de  Pomeria,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Guiz,  v  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Londonia,  iiij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Nerbertone,  iiij  milites. 

Elias  de  Clistone,  iij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Iclestone,4  iij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Berckelaio,  ij  milites. 

Alexander  de  Monte  Forcii,5  ij  milites. 

Feodum  Walteri  filii  Rain  eri,6  ij  milites. 

Robertus  Langahit,7  dimidium  militem. 

Feodum  quod  fuit  Geofridi  de  Stanganesforde,8 
j  militem. 

Feodum  quod  fuit  Walteri  de  Ferede,9  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Einesford,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Wintonia,  j  militem. 

Filius  Ricardi  Walonsis,10  j  militem. 

Rogerus  filius  Herlewini,11  j  militem  et  dimidium  in 
Wallia. 

Willelmus  de  Caerdyf,12  j  militem ;  et  in  Wallia, 
dimidium  militem. 


1  Fskelin ,  L.  N. 

2  Waspail,  L.  N. 

3  Traiii,  L.  N. 

*  Iclesdona,  L.  N. 

5  Monte  Forti,  L.  N. 
e  Baameri,  L.  N. 

63377. 


7  Lagahit,  L.  N. 

8  Ragenesforde,  L.  N. 

9  Fered,  L.  N. 

10  Waletisis,  L.  N. 

11  Herlouini,  L.  N. 

12  Cardi,  L.  N. 

T 


290 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Gloucestresoira — cont. 

A. D.  1166.  Rogerus  de  Rodelic,1  j  militem  et  iiijtein  2  partem 
militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Odonis  Aurifabri,  j  militem. 
Rogerus  de  Kimbis,  j  militem. 

Gilbertus  3  de  Walberga,  dimidium  militem. 

Feodum  Willelmi  de  Oetone,4  j  militem. 

Hugo  Wac,  de  terra  quam  Baldewinus  filius  Gile- 
berti  tenebat,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Hervei,5  j  militem. 

Elias  6  de  Tornebiria,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Camerarius  de  Londonia,  j  militem. 
Nicholaus  filius  Arding,7  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Clivedone,  j  militem. 

Simon  de  Neutone,8  j  militem  et  iiijtam  2  partem 
militis. 

Feodum  quod  fuit  Ruad9  Croc,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Vilers,10  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Boleville,  ij  milites. 

Gilbertus  de  Grinemare,11  ij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Hanitoneford,12  j  militem. 

Laudomare,13  j  militem. 

Gilbertus  14  de  Fernesham,  j  militem. 

Fo.  98  d.  Rogerus  de  Derkerol,15  j  militem. 

Wermundus  de  Portmort,  dimidium  militem. 
Ricardus  de  Marcy,16  iiij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Marcy,16  iij  milites. 

Mauricius  de  Torenham,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Roberti,  dimidium  militem  in  Gun- 
lion.17 


1  Rodolic,  L.  N. 

2  quartam,  L.  N. 

3  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

4  Hoc  tone,  L.  N. 

‘  Herevei,  L.  N. 

6  Elyas,  L.  N. 

7  Nicolaus  filius  Hardingi,  L.  N. 

8  Niwetone,  L.  N. 

9  Rualdi,  L.  N, 


10  Viliers,  L.  N. 

11  Gilebertus  de  Grenemara,  L.  N. 

12  Hamtuneford,  L.  N. 

13  Laudomarus,  L.  N. 

14  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

15  Berkerol,  L.  N. 

16  Marci,  L.  N. 

17  Gunliou,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


291 


Gloucestr  escira — cont. 

Azo  1  frater  Leomeri,  dimidium  militem  ibidem.  a.D.  1166. 

Rogerus  filius  Malgeri,  dimidium  militem  ibidem. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti 2  Camerarii,  dimidium  mi¬ 
litem. 

Rogerus  de  Beregvalle,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertas,  pro  terra  qum  fuit  Willelmi  Torneanti,3 
j  militem. 

Lucas  Pincerna  Rogeri,4  j  militem. 

Milo  de  Cogan,  ij  milites. 

De  feodo  quod  fuit  Roberti  Norensis,  ij  milites. 

Osbertus  de  Pennard,  j  militem. 

Robertas  de  Costantino,5  j  militem. 

De  feodo  quod  fuit  Ricardi  Foliot  quod  Robertas 
filius  Ricardi  tenet,  iiij  milites. 

Osbertus  de  Wincheleia,  j  militem. 

Jordanus  de  Capernun  de  Unberleia 6  et  Becin- 
tone,  ij  milites. 

Et  alii  sui  milites  sunt  praescripti  in  hoc  ipso 
rotulo. 

Summa  horum  militum.3 

Isti  subscripti  sunt  de  novo  feffamento  7  de  dominio  : — 

Hamo  filius  Geufr[idi],  se  altero,  de  dominio. 

Hugo  de  Gundeville,8  se  altero,  de  dominio. 

Willelmus  de  Hastinges,  se  tertio  9  milite,  de  do¬ 
minio. 

Robertas  de  Grain ville,  j,  de  dominio. 

Willelmus  de  Bosco,  dimidium  militem,  de  dominio. 

Gregorius  de  Turri,  dimidium  militem,  de  dominio. 

Rogerus  de  Mannaville,  dimidium  militem,  de  do¬ 
minio. 


1  Aco,  L.  N. 

2  Herebertus  filius  Hereberti, 
L.  N. 

3  Sic  in  MSS. 

4  Sic  in  MS. ;  Regis,  L.  N. 


5  Constantino,  L.  N. 

6  Umberlaia,  L.  N. 

7  fefamento ,  L.  N. 

8  Gunnoville,  L.  N. 

9  iij,  L.  N. 


292 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Gloucestrescira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Fulco  filius  Warini,  j  militem,  de  dominio. 

Philippus  de  Chahaines,  dimidium  militem,  de 
dominio. 

Gerboldus,1  quartam  partem  militis,2 3  de  dominio. 
Petrus  de  Salta  Marisco,  iiijtam3  partem  militis, 
de  eodem. 

Ricardus  de  Chairdyf,4  dimidium  militem,  de  do¬ 
minio. 

Hamelinus  de  Gundeville,5  j  militem,  de  dominio. 

Summa  horum  noviter  feodatorum  sunt6  xiij  milites 

et  dimidium  [militis]. 

Carta  Rogeri  de  Berch[elai]. 

Sciat  dominus  Rex  quod  ego  Rogerus  de  Berch[elai] 
habeo  ij  7  milites  et  dimidium  feffatos  8  de  veteri  fef- 
famento,9  unde  : — 

Michael  tenet  j  hidam. 

Willelmus  filius  Baldewini,  ij  hidas. 

Elias  10  de  Boiville,  j  hidam  et  dimidiam. 

Hugo  de  Planta,11  dimidiam  hidam. 

Et  de  istis  integrum  militem  habetis. 

Ad  dimidium  faciendum  tenet : — 

Radulfus  de  Ywelege,  dimidiam  hidam. 

Femina  Radulfi  Cantilene,12  dimidiam  hidam. 
Rogerus  de  Alba  Mara,  j  virgatam. 

Simon  de  Cornelege,13  j  virgatam. 

Femina  Ricardi  Ganselli,  iij  virgatas. 

Prior  de  Stanleie,14  j  virgatam. 

Et  hic  habetis  dimidium  militem. 


1  Gerbodus,  L.  N. 

2  L.  N.  omits  partem. 

3  quartam,  L.  N. 

4  Chardi,  L.  N. ;  the  f  is  a  later 
insertion  in  MS. 

5  Gunnoville,  L.  N. 

6  Sic  in  MS. 

7  duos,  L.  N. 


8feofatos,  L.  N. 

9  f  eo  f  amento,  L.  N. 

10  Helyas,  L.  N. 

11  Planca,  L.  N. 

12  Sic  in  MSS. 

13  Covelege,  L.  N. 

14  Stanlege,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


293 


Gloucestrescira — cont. 

Ad  alterum  militem  faciendum  : —  A.D.  1166. 

Walterus  de  Hollecumbe1  tenet  iij  hidas  et  dimidiam. 

Gerardus,  iij  hidas  et  dimidiam. 

Reginaldus  de  Alba  Mara,  iij  hidas. 

Et  ita  tenent  isti  iij  2  x  hidas,  unde  nolunt  mihi  facere 
servitium  nisi  de  iij  3  virgatis,  scilicet,  unusquisque  de 
j  virgata.  Et  ita  habetis  ij  4  milites  et  dimidium  feo- 
datos.  Nullum  habeo  feodatum 5  novum  de  meo  tempore. 

Si  vobis  in  antea  6  de  dominio  meo  placet  audire : — 

In  manerio  meo  de  Oberlege,7  habeo  feodum  duorum 
militum. 

Apud8  Stanlege,  feodum  j  militis  cum  j  hida  de 
Chederintone. 

In  Niwentone  habeo  feodum  j  militis. 

In  Durellis,  j  hidam. 

In  Oslewarda,9  dimidiam  hidam. 

In  Doddintone,10  iij  hidas  et  dimidiam. 

In  Slimbergge,11  iij  hidas  quas  ego  vestro  assensu 
dedi  Mauri cio  filio  Roberti,  unde  nullum  habeo 
servitium. 

Kingeswodam  tenent  Albi  Monachi,  ex  dono  Wil- 
lelmi  de  Bercham[stede]  unde  vobis  integrum 
militem  facio,  quamvis  ipsi  nullum  servitium 
michi  facere  volunt. 


Carta  Margarets  de  Boun.13 

Hos  milites  habet  Margareta  de  Boun,14  qui  fue¬ 
runt  in  tempore  Regis  Henrici  feflati 15  in  feodo  Mi- 


1  Holecumbe ,  L.  N. 

2  tres,  L.  N. 

3  tribus,  L.  N. 

4  duos,  L.  N. 

8  Nullumque  feof at  um  habeo,  L.  N. 

6  Sic  in  MS. 

t  Cobbelega,  L.  N. 

8  Aput,  L.  N. 


9  Oslewrda,  L.  N. 

10  Duddintone,  L.  N. 

11  Slimbrigge,  L.  N. 

12  quamvis  ipsi  michi  nullum  servi¬ 
tium  facere  volunt,  L.  N. 

13  Bohun,  L.  N. 

14  Bohum,  L.  N. 

]5  feofati ,  L.  N. 


204  LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

Gloucestrescira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Ionis  Gloucestriae,  patris  sui,  quos  tenet  in  capite  de 
Rege : — 

Fo.  99.  Hugo  Parvus  debet  iiij  milites. 

Philippus  filius  Ernulfi,  ij  1  milites. 

Othuerus  de  Sunewrthe,2  ij  milites. 

Almaricus  de  Lokintona,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  Cokerel 3  et  Elias,4  frater  ejus,  j  militem. 
Willelmus  de  Pinkeini,5  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Blenchendone 6  et  Walterus  filius 
Roberti,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Sancto  Quintino,  dimidium  militem. 
Ricardus  Canutus  et  Walterus,7  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Esseleia,8  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Picard,  ij  milites. 

Gilbertus  9  de  Mineriis  et  Hugo  de  Cundicote,10 
dimidium  militem. 

Ex  hiis  habet  Ysabele  11  uxor  Henrici  de  Herford,12 
v  milites  in  dotem. 

Hos  habet  etiam  feffatos 13  de  dominiis  suis  post 
mortem  Henrici  Regis,  quos  pater  suus  et  fratres  fef- 
faverunt 14 : — 

Willelmus  de  Cernay,15  dimidium  militem. 
Willelmus  Torel,  in  Cernay,15  iiij  tam  i6  partem  mi¬ 
litis. 

Elias  Cokerel,17  dimidium  militem. 

Rogerus  filius  Alani,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Ricardus  Murdac,  j  militem. 


1  duos,  L.  N. 

2  Otoerus  de  Sunnewrthe,  L.  N. 

3  Chokerel,  L.  N. 

4  Helyas,  L.  N. 

5  Pinkeni,  L.  N. 

6  Blechedone,  L.  N. 

7  Walterus  Moderli,  L.  N. 

8  Esselea,  L.  "N. 

9  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

10  Cumdicote ,  L.  N. ;  the  m  has 


been  altered  into  n  in  the  MS.  by 
erasure. 

11  Ysabel,  L.  N. 

12  Herefordia,  L.  N. 
n  jefatos ,  L.  N. 

14  feofaverunt,  L.  N. 

15  Cernai,  L.  N. 

16  quartam,  L.  N. 

17  Helyas  de  Kokerel,  L.  N.  The 
de  is  subpunctuated  in  the  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


295 


Gloucestrescira — cont. 

Carta  Radulfi  de  Suteleia.1  a.d.  1166. 

Sciendum  est  quod  tot  milites  habet  Radulfus  de 
Suteleia 2  feodatos  in  tenura  sua  quam  tenet  in  capite 
de  Rege  de  veteri  feffamento  3  et  novo  : — 

Ricardus  de  Cinctecote,  de  veteri  feffamento,  iij  4 
partes  unius  militis. 

Robertus  Russei,  de  veteri  feffamento,3  quintam 
partem  militis. 

Agatha,  de  veteri  feffamento,3  vtam  5  partem  j  mi¬ 
litis.6 

Haec  est  summa  de  veteri  feffamento 3 — feodum  j  mi¬ 
litis  : — 

Item,  Willelmus  de  Tracy,7  de  novo  feffamento,3 
de  dominio  suo,  feodum  j  militis. 

Unfridus 8  filius  Willelmi,  de  novo  feffamento,3  de 
dominio  suo  et  de  dono  Rogeri  Parvi,  feodum 
j  9  militis. 


Carta  Roberti  de  Scrupa. 

Sciendum  est  quod  ego  Robertus  de  Scrupa10  teneo 
feoda  iij  11  militum  a  domino  nostro  Rege ;  et  post  mor¬ 
tem  Henrici  Regis  nullum  feodavi. 

Nomina  illorum  militum  sunt  haec  : — 

Turstanus 12  Dispensator. 

Gal[fridus]  Camerarius  de  Clintone.13 
Simonde  Ordingetone. 

Valete.  . 


1  Sutleia,  L.  N. 

3  Suthleia,  L.  N. 

3  fef amento,  L.  N. 

4  tres,  L.  N. 

*  quintam,  L.  N. 

6  militis,  L.  N. 

7  Traci,  L.  N. 


8  Umfridus,  L.  N. 

9  unius,  L.  N. 

10  Crupa,  L.  N.,  on  an  erasure. 

11  trium,  L.  N. 

12  Tourstanus,  L.  N. 

13  Glintone,  L.  N. 


296  LIBER  EUBEUS  DE  SCACCAEIO. 

Gloucesteescira — cont. 

Carta  Henrici  de  Novo  Mercato. 

Hii  sunt  milites  Henrici  de  Novo  Mercato  de  veteri 
feffamento  1 : — 

Ernaldus  de  Bailol 2  et  Hufridus  3  Pancevot  tenent 
feoda  v  militum. 

Ricardus  Malamulier,4  j  militem. 

Galfridus  filius  Rogeri,  j  militem. 

Henricus  Luel 5  tenet  [feodum]  j  militis,  quod  non 
recognoscit 6  de  me  tenere  et  ego  servitium 
inde  facio. 

Ricardus  filius  Hunfridi,7  [feodum]  dimidii  militis, 
quod  Jocel 8  de  Bailol  praecepto  Regis  tenet, 
neque  ullum  servitium  inde  habeo. 

Walterus  dei  Cheisne,  iiijor  partes  j  militis  quos 
Jocelinus  de  Bailol 9  praecepto  Regis  tenet,  neque 
inde  servitium  habeo. 

Galfridus  de  Galehamtone,  vtam  partem  j  10  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Marisco,  vtam  partem  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Alvredi,  vtam  11  partem  militis. 

Eustachius  Pancevot,  iiijtam  12  partem  militis. 

Hamelin  de  Baalun,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Frohorn,13  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  Monsel,14  ij  15  partes  j  16  militis. 

Elias  17  Cokerel,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Gundeville,  iiij  partes  j  militis. 

Hunfridus 18  de  Kenebelle,  j  militem. 


1  fef  'amento,  L.  N. 

2  Baillnl,  L.  N. 

3  Sic  in  MS. 

4  Ricardus  de  Malemuilier ,  L.  N. ; 
the  de  is  subpuncted  in  MS. 

5  Luvely  L.  N. 

6  recongnoscit  in  MS. ;  tenet feodum 
j  militis  quod  non  recognoscit,  L.  N. 

7  Humfridi,  L.  N. 

8  Jocelinus,  L.  N. 

9  Jocel  de  Bailoil,  L.  N.,  where 


this  entry  follows  the  fee  of  Gal¬ 
fridus  de  Marisco. 

10  L.  N.  omits  j. 

11  v,  L.  N. 

12  iiij,  L.  N. 

13  Frohorn,  L.  N. 

14  Mansel,  L.  N. 

15  duas,  L.  N. 

16  unius,  L.  N. 

17  Helyas,  L.  N. 

18  Humfridus,  L  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO.  297 

Gloucestrescira — cont. 

Philippus  de  Gundeville,  x  partem  j  militis.  A.D.  1166. 

Willelmus  de  Cadeberi,  x  partem  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Dereham,1  v  partem  j  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Reginaldi,  feodum  j  militis  ;  sed 
ego  non  cognosco  quod  de  me  debeat  tenere,  unde 
servitium  Regi  facio. 

De  novo  feffamento2 : — 

Mathaeus  de  Baaluum,3  j  militem  de  dominio. 

Hunfridus4  Blundus,  quintam  partem  militis  de 
dominio. 

Super  dominium  nichil. 

Carta  Pagani  de  Muntdublel., 

Hii  sunt  milites  Pagani  de  Muntdublel 5 : — 

Hunfridus  de  Boun 6  tenet  feoda  ij  militum. 

Simon  de  Chelefeld,  v  militum. 

Adam  filius  Simonis,  j  militis. 

Fo.  99  d.  Hugo  de  Radenne,7  j  militis. 

J ohannes  de  Baha,  j  militis. 

Simon  de  Hara,  j  militis. 

Radulfus  Murdac,  j  militis  ;  sed  non  cognoscit  nisi 
feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Coldrintone,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Summa  istorum  est — xij  milites  et  dimicfius. 

De  novo  feffamento 2  dedit  Paganus  de  Mundublel 8 
Hugoni  de  Chaurcis,  fratri  suo,  unum  manerium  unde 
nullum  servitium  facit;  et  Nicholao9  filio  Simonis, 
senescallo  suo,  unam  vastam  terram  juxta  Neuberiam  10 
pro  servitio  suo,  per  servitium  tertiae 11  partis  j  militis. 


1  Derham,  L.  N. 

2  fej amento,  L.  N. 

3  Bddlun,  L.  N. 

4  Humfridus,  L.  N. 

5  Hii  sunt  milites  Pagani  de 

Mundublel  de  veteri  fejamento, 

L.  N. 


6  Humfridus  de  Hohun,  L.  N. 

7  Radene,  L.  N. 

8  Mundubel,  L.  N. 

9  Nicolao,  L.  N. 

10  Niwebiriam,  L.  N. 

11  iij,  L.  N. 


298 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Gloucestrescira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  1  Sciendum  est  quod  de  praedicto  tenemento  tenet 

Galfridus  de  Ver,  feoda  vij  militum  de  quorum,1 2 
Patricius  de  Chaurcis 3  avus  Pagani  de  Mundublel 4 
tenuit  die  qua  Rex  Henricus  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus, 
scilicet,  Mathaeus  de  Tormartone,5  feodum  v  militum. 

Hunfridus  Franchevaler,6  feodum  j  militis. 

Henricus  Chesnel,7  feodum  j  militis. 

Et  extra  hoc  Alvredus  de  Lincolnia  tenet  feodum 
j 8  militis  quod  Patricius  Comes  cepit  per  gwerram ; 
et  insuper  tenet  Comes  Patricius  de  supradicto  tenemento 
feoda  xx  militum  de  matrimonio  matris  suae  ;  et  iij 
maneria  9  de  lx£. ;  et  Nigellus  de  Albineio,  j  manerium 
de  xx£.  similiter,  de  matrimonio  matris  suae,  unde  nullum 
servitium  fecerunt. 


Carta  Roberti  filii  Harding.10 

Henrico  Dei  gratia  Regi 11  Anglorum,  Duci  Norman  - 
norum  et  Aquitannorum,  Comiti  Andegavorum,  Robertus 
filius  Harding 10  salutem. 

Sciatis  quod  vobis  debeo  de  Berkelai  servitium  v  mi¬ 
litum  ;  sed  Rogerus  de  Berkelai  tenet  terram  de  honore 
de  Berkelei,12  unde  nullum  mihi  facit  servitium,  scilicet, 
Esmordam  13  et  dimidium  Neutone 14  et  totum  feodum 
Bernardi  Capellam. 


1  De  eodem  tenemento  divisio 
precedes  this  entry  as  a  rubric  in 
L.N. 

2  Sic  in  both  MSS. 

3  Chawrcis,  L.  N. 

4  Mundabel,  L.  N. 

5  Tormintone,  L.  N. 

6  Hum/ridus  Franc  Chevalier, 

L.  N. 


7  Chenel,  L.  N. 

8  unius,  L.  N. 

9  tres  manerios,  L.  N. 

10  Hardingi,  L.  N. 

11  Rex,  L.  N. 

12  Berkelai,  L.  N. 

13  Osemordam,  L.  N. 

14  Niwetone,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


29& 


WIRECESTRESCIKA.1  a.d.  nec. 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Bello  Campo. 

Ego  Willelmus  de  Bello  Campo  habeo  istos  milites  de 
domino  Rege  feodatos  de  veteri  feodamento 2  ex  tem¬ 
pore  Regis  Henrici  avi  domini  Regis : — 

Stephaniis  de  Bellocampo  tenet  feoda  ij  militum. 

Ranulfus  filius  Rogeri,  j  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Widonis,  j  militis. 

Filius  Galfridi  Abbatis,  ij  militum. 

Willelmus  Burdet,  dimidii  militis. 

Filius  Roberti  filii  Vitalis,  j  militis. 

Everard  de  Tilintone,3  dimidii  militis. 

Henricus  de  Gastone,4  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Roffoc,5  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Abbetot,6  dimidii  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Hai,7  dimidii  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Costone,  j  militis. 

Filius  Jory  8  de  Bunet,9  j  militis. 

Walterus  de  Duverdale,  j  militis. 

Hugo  filius  Fulconis,  dimidii  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Bracy,10  dimidii  militis. 

Willelmus  Haket,11  j  militis. 

De  hiis  praenominatis  non  debeo  Regi  nisi  servitium 
vij  militum,  nec  antecessores  mei  unquam 12  plus  fece¬ 
runt.  Sed  quia  dominus  Rex  praecepit  michi  mandare 
quot  milites  habeo  et  eorum  nomina,  ideo  mando  quod 
istos  habeo  feffatos 13  de  veteri  fefiamento 2 ;  sed  non 
debeo  Regi  nisi  servitium  vij  militum. 


1  This  heading  is  also  once  written 
Wucestrescira  in  the  MS. 

2 fefamento,  L.  N. 

3  Everardus  de  Tilitone,  L.  N. 

*  Graftone,  L.  N. 

•  Bossoc,  L.  N. 

6  Abetot,  L.  N. 


7  Willelmus  Hai ,  L.  N. 

8  Jori,  L.  N. 

9  Buntelega,  L.  N. 

10  Brad,  L.  N. 

11  Baket,  L.  N. 

12  umquam,  L.  N. 

13  fefatos,  L.  N. 


300 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


WlRECESTRESCIRA —  COTlt. 

A.D.  1166.  De  novo  feffamento  1  nullum  habeo  militem2  super 
dominium  meum.3 

Fo.  loo.  Carta  Episcopi4  Wigornensis. 

Wigornensis  Ecclesia  5  isti  sunt  feffati 6  antiquitus  : — 
Dominus  Rex  debet  iij  milites. 

Comes  Gloucestriee,  vij  7 8  et  dimidium;  sed  unum 
tantum  recognoscit.s 

Hunfridus  de  Boun,9  vij  milites  et  dimidium ;  sed 
negat  iij  et  dimidium.10 
Willelmus  de  Bello  campo,  xv  milites. 

Elias  Giffard,  j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Foro,  j  militem  ;  et  alium  negat. 
Gilbertus  11  de  Mineriis,  j  militem ;  sed  vam  partem, 
negat. 

Walterus  de  Clifford,  j  militem. 

Hugo  Poher,12  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Hugo  de  Lascy,13  iiij  milites,  cum  Willelmo  filio 
Hermanni,14  qui  facit  dimidium  militem. 

Aetrope  Hasteng,15  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Marmiun,16  ij  milites  ;  sed  j  negat. 
Johannes  Marescallus,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Radulfus  Travers,  j  militem,  vta  parte17  minus. 

Hoc  est  vetus  feffamentum.18 

Summa — xxxvij  milites  et  dimidium. 


1  fef amento,  L.  N. 

2  militem  habeo,  L.  N. 

3  super  dominium  meum  nullum, 
L.  N. 

4  Episcopatus,  L.  N., 

5  Ecclesiae,  L.  N. 

6  feofati,  L.  N. 

7  vij  milites,  L.  N. 

8  recongnoscit  in  MS. 

9  Humfridus  de  Bohun,  L.  N. 


io  Written  on  an  erasure  in  MS. 

11  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

12  Puher,  L.  N. 

13  Luci,  L.  N. 

14  Hereman,  L.  N. 

15  Attrope  Hastenc,  L.  N. 

16  Robertus  Marmiun,  L.  N. 

17  pars  in  MS. ;  quinta  parte, 
L.  N. 

u  fef  amentum,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


301 


W I RECESTRESCIRA — COllt. 

Isti  sunt  feffati1  a  tempore  Sansonis  Episcopi : —  A.D.  1166. 

Adam  de  Froile,  j  militem. 

Frederich  de  Biscopesdone,1 2  j  militem. 

Sanson  de  Saltemareis,3  dimidium  militem. 

Illi  de  Ture,4  j  militem. 

Jordanus  de  Estone,  dimidium  militem. 

Summa — iiij  milites. 

Isti  sunt  feodati 5  de  dominico  a  tempore  Theophi  6 
Episcopi : — 

Robertus  de  Evercy,7  j  militem. 

Thomas  de  Sancto  Johanne,  j  militem. 

Bro tuere,  dimidium  militem. 

Petrus  de  Uptune,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Emundescote,8  dimidium  militem. 

Prior  Wigornise,  dimidium  militem. 

Summa — iiij  milites. 


Carta  Abbatiae  de  Evesham.9 

Servitium  militum  de  Abbatia  de  Evesham : — 

Ranulfus  de  Coctone,  facit  plenum  servitium  j  mi¬ 
litis  in  equis  et  armis,  et  abbas  inveniet 10  ei 
expensas  quamdiu  fuerit  in  servitio  Regis. 

Ranulfus  de  Kinewartone,  similiter. 

Ricardus  de  Westone  et  Ricardus  de  Piplumtone,11 
similiter. 

Bertram  12  et  Paganus  Travers,  similiter. 


1  fefati  de  dominico ,  L.  N. 

7  Frederic  de  Bissopesdone, 
L.  N. 

3  Saltemare,  L.  N. 

4  Turre,  L.  N. 

5  fefati,  L.  N. 

6  Theolphi,  L.  N. 


7  Verci,  L.  N.  The  E  is  added 
in  a  later  hand  in  MS. 

8  Edmundescote,  L.  N. 

9  Evisham,  L.  N. 

10  invenit,  L.  N. 

11  Piplintone,  L.  N. 

11  Bertramus,  L.  N. 


302 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  1166. 


Fo.  100  d. 


W IRECESTRESCIRA — COnt. 

Willelmus  de  Bello  Campo,  dimidium  militem  ad 
expensas  abbatis. 

Isti  prmdicti  sunt  de  veteri  feffamento.1 

Ricardus  filius  Maurici  de  Ambreslega,2  dimidium 
militem  ad  expensam  abbatis. 

Et  iste  solus  de  novo  feffamento  1  est. 

Carta  Abbatis  de  Persora.3 

Ego  Reginaldus  Abbas  Persorse  tot  habeo  milites  feo- 
datos  de  veteri  feffamento,1  scilicet,4  anno  et  die  quo 
Rex  Henricus  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus  : — 

Willelmus  de  Bello  Camoo  tenet  de  Ecclesia  et  de 

L 

nobis  feodum  j  militis. 

Et 5  Galfridus  Blacke  6  tenet  feodum  dimidii  mi¬ 
litis. 

Robertus 7  de-  Lorticote 8  tenet  feodurn  dimidii 
militis. 

Et  de  novo  feffamento1  nullum  habeo  feffatum.9 


OXONEEORDSCIRA.10 

Carta  Manasseri  11  Arsic  de  feodis  suis. 

Hii  sunt  milites  Manasser  Arsic  : — 

Gilbertus  12  de  Neville  tenet 13  feoda  iiij  militum  a 
tempore  Regis  Henrici,  et  hos  tenet  Rogerus 
Arsic  a  fratre  suo  Manasser  Arsic. 

Yone  de  Gronesby 14  tenet 13  feodum  j  militis  a  tem¬ 
pore  Regis  Henrici,  et  hoc  tenet  Rogerus  Arsic. 


1  fef amento,  L.  N. 

2  Mauricii  de  Amberlega,  L.  N. 
There  is  no  new  paragraph  in  L.  N. 

3  There  is  no  rubric  in  L.  N. 

4  scilicet  de,  L.  N. 

5  Et  is  referred  to  the  preceding 
paragraph  in  the  MS. 

6  Blache,  L.  N, 


7  Et  Robertus,  L.  N. 

8  Larticote,  L.  N. 

9  fefatum,  L.  N. 

10  Oxenefordscira,  L.  N. 

11  Manaseri,  L.  N. 

12  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

13  t[enuit],  L.  N. 

14  Yon  de  Grenesbi,  L.  bf. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


303 


OXONEFORDSCIRA — COTlt. 


Guido1  de  Ver  tenet  iijtam2  partem  militis  ab 
ipso  Rogero,  et  pater  suus  tenuit  a  tempore 
Regis  Henrici.3 

Odo  de  Ceritone,  nepos  Arehiepi scopi,  tenuit  a  tem¬ 
pore  Regis  Henrici  feodum  j  militis,  et  Willelmus, 
filius  suus,  hoc  ipsum  tenet; 

Sibilla  de  Ros  tenet  feodum  et  tenuit  a  tempore 
Henrici  Regis. 

Alvredus  de  Bakewelle 4  tenuit  feoda  ij  5  mi¬ 
litum  a  tempore  Regis  Henrici,  et  Robertus 
filius  ejus  tenet  alterum  et  unum  invadiavit 
domino  suo  Roberto  Arsic ;  et  illud  Manasser 
Arsic  dedit  Willelmo  de  Dadeville  6  pro  servitio 
j  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Estone  tenuit  in  tempore  Regis  Henrici 
feodum  j  militis,  et  illud  vendidit  Reingnero 7 
filio  Beringari ;  et  Reingnerus8  tenuit  illud  de 
Manasser  Arsic  pro  servitio  j  militis. 

Dittonam  et  Kersintone  tenuit  Triheram 9  Picot, 
in  tempore  Regis  Henrici,  pro  servitio  ij 5 
militum ;  sed  illam  pro  nequitia,  et  judicio 
Curias,  Robertus  Arsic  amisit. 

Osbertus  de,  Claudiocestria 10  tenet  de  illo  feodo 
j  militem,11  et  Kersintone  12  est  feodum  j  militis 
quod  injuste  deforciatur 13  Manasser  Arsic. 

Willelmus  de  Cliftone  tenuit  feodum  militis  a 
tempore  Regis  Henrici,  et  haeredes  ejus  tenent. 

Odo  de  Bertone  tenuit  in  tempore  Regis  Henrici 
feodum  j  militis,  et  Hunfridus 14  filius  ejus  tenet. 


1  Gwido,  L.  N. 

2  quartam,  L.  N. 

s  Henrici  Regis,  L.  N. 

4  Bekewelle,  L.  N. 

5  duorum,  L.  N. 

6  Dudeville,  L.  N. 

7  Reignero,  L.  N. 


8  Reignerus,  L.  N. 

9  Triham,  L.  N. 

10  Cladiocestria,  L.  N. 

11  de  illo  feodum  j  militis,  L.  N. 

12  Chersintone,  L.  N. 

13  difforciatur,  L.  N. 

14  Humfridvs,  L.  N, 


304 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


OXONEFORDSCIRA — COTbt. 

A.D.  1166.  Robertus  filius  Alvredi  et  Wakelinus  1  tenent  feo¬ 
dum  militis,  et  pro  tali  servitio  fuit  in  tempore 
Regis  Henrici. 

Thomas  de  Peritone  tenuit  in  tempore  Regis 
Henrici  feodum  militis,  et  tenet. 

Johannes  Marscallus 2  tenuit  feodum  militis  in 
tempore  Regis  Henrici,  et  Gilbertus  3  filius  ejus 
tenet. 

Carta  Wigani  Marscalli.4 

H[enricus]  rex  avus  domini  Regis  feffavit 5  Wiganum 
Marscallum  6  suum  de  tenementis  suis  quse  de  eo  tenuit 
per  servitium  Marscalcise7  suse.  Et  dominus  Rex  ita 
reddidit  ea  tenenda  Radulfo  filio  suo,  sicut  Marscallo8 
suo.  Et  Radulfus  filius  Wigani  sic  tenet  ea  de  domino 
Rege  per  servitium  Marscalcise 7  suae.  Et  in  hiis  tene¬ 
mentis. 

Rogerus  de  Torlavestone9  Ttenet  de  Radulfo  filio 
Wigani  quartam  partem  j  militis,  de  novo  feffamento 10 
post  tempus  Regis  Henrici.11 

[Carta]  12  Ricardi  de  Canville.13 

Ricardus  de  Canville13  debet  domino  Regi  servitium 
j  militis  pro  feodo  quod  tenet  de  eo  in  capite  de  antiquo 
feffamento.10 


Carta  Philippi  de  Hamtona. 

Philippus  de  Hamtona  habet  feodum  j  militis  quod 
tenet  de  Rege. 


1  Walkelin,  L.  N. 

2  Marescallus,  L.  N. 

3  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

4  Carta  de  feodo  Wigani  Mare- 
scalli,  L.  N. 

5  fefavit,  L.  N. 

8  Mares  callum,  L.  N. 

7  Marescalcia ,  L.  N. 


8  Marescallo,  L.  N. 

9  Torlanestone,  L.  N. 

10  fef amento,  L.  N. 

11  Henrici  Regis,  L.  N. 

12  Carta  omitted  in  MS.,  supplied 
from  L.  N. 

13  Camville,  L.  N, 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


305 


OXONEFORDSCIRA — COTlt. 

CARTA  OLIVERI  DE  LlNGOURE.  A-.D.  1166. 

Ego  Oliverus  de  Lingoure  teneo  de  domino  Rege  in 
capite  unum  feodum  militis  apud  Eadburburiam.1 

Carta  Henrici  de  Oyli. 

Henricus  de  Oili  habet  feoda 2  de  veteri  feffamento 3 
xxxij  militum  et  tertiam  4  partem  militis. 

De  novo  feffamento,3  j  militem  et  dimidium  et  xxam 
partem  militis. 

Et  super 5  dominium  ejus  nichil  habetur  in  Carta. 

Ricardus  filius  Willelmi  de  Harecurt  tenet  j  feodum 
in  Stantona.6 

Walterus  de  Verdun,  j  feodum 7  in  Blokesham. 


Fo.  id.  BERCSCIRA. 

Carta  Abbatis  de  Abendonia.8 

Haec  sunt  nomina  militum  qui  tenent  de  Ecclesia 
Abendoniae  de  veteri  feffamento  3  : — 

Jordanus  de  Sanforde,  iiij  milites. 

Sauekesworda,9  ij  milites. 

Vincentius,  j  militem. 

Reginaldus  de  Sancto  Walerico,10  j  militem. 
Willelmus  de  Lega,  ij  milites. 

Raerus  de  Alra,  j  militem. 

Hugo  filius  Bernerii,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 


1  Sic  in  MSS. 

2  feof amenta ,  L.  N. 

3  fefamento,  L.  N. 

4  «7,  L.  N. 

4  et  super,  L.  N.,  where  there  is 
no  break  in  the  entry. 

6  In  L.  N.  this  entry  follows 

that  of  Walter  de  Verdun.  Both 


entries  are  later  insertions  in  the 
MSS. 

7  tenet  feodum  j  militis,  L.  N. 

8  Carta  Abbatia  Abendonia, 
L.  N. 

9  Sauekeswerda,  L.  N. 

10  Valerico,  L.  N. 


63377. 


U 


306 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Bercscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  '  Johannes  de  Tubbeneia,1  j  militem. 

Johannes  de  Sancta  Helena,  iij  milites. 

Gilbertus2  de  Columbariis,  ij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Boclande,  j  militem. 

Herbertns  filius  Herberti,3  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Bradelege,  dimidium  militem. 

Buamundus  de  Leges,  iij  milites,  cum  ij  4  hidis 
quas  Hunfridus  de  Boun  5  aufert. 

Henricus  de  Peseia,  j  militem. 

Kogerus  de  Chereburgo,6  dimidium  militem.7 

Gilbertus2  filius  Johannis,  dimidium  militem. 

Paganus  filius  Henrici  et  Rogerus  de  Hulla,  j  mi¬ 
litem  ;  sed  Willelmus  Giffard 8  aufert  tertiam 9 
partem  militis  de  feodo  de  Hulla. 

Turstanus  filius  Simonis,  dimidium  militem. 

Galfridus  filius  Willelmi,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  filius  Hemingi,10  j  militem. 

Baldewinus  de  Flagesflore,11  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Puntdelarche,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Wetelega,12  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Caumund,13  et  Ricardus  Gernun,  et 
Robertus  filius  Dapiferi,  et  Galfridus  de  Samforde, 
et  Willelmus  Gryme,14  et  Reginaldus  de  Goseya,16 
et  Petrus  de  Aldebiry,16  et  Henricus  de  Lachinge, 
et  Galfridus  de  Raverches  17  faciunt  j  militem  et 
dimidium. 

Et  est  summa  xxxiij  milites  de  veteri  feffamento 18 ; 
de  novo  nullus  est.  Et  super  dominium  nullus  est. 


1  Tubbeneie,  L.  N. 

2  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

8  IJ erebertus filius  Hereberti,\i.~N . 

4  duabus,  L.  N. 

5  Humfridus  de  Bohun,  L.  N. 

6  Chereburco,  L.  N. 

7  L.  N.  omits  militem. 

8  G  iff  ardus,  L.  N. 

8  iifm,  L.  N. 


10  Hammingi,  L.  N. 

11  Fagesfiore,  L.  N. 

12  Weteleia,  L.  N. 

13  Ricardus  Caumundus,  L.  N. 

14  Grim,  L.  N. 

15  Goseia,  L.  N. 

16  Aldebiri,  L.  N. 

17  Faveirches,  L.  N. 
xa  fef amento,  L.  N, 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


307 


Bercscira — cont. 

Carta  Herberti  1  filius  Herberti.1  a.d.  1166. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti 2  tenet  de  Rege  in  capite 
feodum  suum  per  servitium  j  militis  et  per  serjantiam3 
suam  et  illud  servitium  debet  facere  per  corpus  suum  ; 
et  habet  hos  milites  f effatos 4  de  tempore 5  Regis  Henrici 
avi  domini  Regis,  scilicet,  de  anno  et  die  quo  fuit  vivus 
et  mortuus  : — 

Robertus  filius  Willelmi,  de  feodo  j  militis. 

Hunfridus  de  Wadehulle,6  de  feodo  dimidii  mi¬ 
litis. 

Willelmus  filius  Tancrae,  de  feodo  dimidii  militis. 

Nicholaus  de  Calun,7  de  feodo  dimidii  militis. 

Et  egomet  feffavi 8  de  novo  Johanoem  de  Walope  9 
de  feodo  dimidii  militis.  Et  non  habeo  plures  de 
dominio  meo. 

Carta  Hugonis  de  Bocland.10 

Hugo  de  Bocland  10  tenet  feodum  j  militis  de  antiquo 
feodo  de  tempore  Regis  Henrici,  et  de  illo  feodo,  post 
mortem  Regis  Henrici,  feodavit  j  militem  et  dimidium 
militem. 

Et  Willelmus  filius  Ernaldi  tenet  feodum  militis. 

Ricardus 11  filius  Willelmi  tenet  cum  eo  aliam  partem. 

Ita  quod  ipsi  duo  faciunt,  post  mortem  Regis  Henrici, 
feodum  j  militis  et  dimidii. 

Carta  Willelmi  Achard. 

Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  domino  suo,  Willelmus 
Acharde 12  salutem  et  fidelitatem.  - 


1  IJereberti,  L.  N. 

2  Herebertus  filius  Hereberti, 
L.  N. 

3  serganteriam ,  L.  N. 

*fefatos,  L.  N. 

5  de  tempore  repeated  in  MS. 

6  Humfridus  de  Wadihille ,  L.  N. 


7  Nicolaus  de  Callun,  L,  N. 

8  fej avi,  L.  N. 

9  Wallop ,  L.  N. 

10  Bokeland,  L.  N. 

11  Et  Ricardus,  L.  N. 

12  Acharde,  L.  N. 

u  2 


308 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Bercscira — cont. 


A.D.  1166.  Sciatis  quod  R.  filius  Acharcl 1  meus  pater  feffavit2 


iij  milites  de  suo  domi u io  in  tempore  Henrici  Regis  avi 
vestri,  scilicet,  Alardum  de  Banactune 3  et  Johannem 
Banactune  3  et  Hugonem  Brutinolle  ;  4  nec  postea  aliquis 
feffatus 5  est. 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Cifbewast.6 

Carissimo  domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Willel- 
mus  de  Ciffrewast 7  salutem. 

Sciatis  quod  in  feodo  quod  8  de  vobis  teneo  nullum 
militem  feffatum 9  nisi  unum  solum  habeo,  nomine 
Walterum  de  Cauz,10  et  hunc  feffavit 11  pater  meus  in 
tempore  Henrici  Regis  avi  vestri ;  et  postea  nullum 
feffatum  9  habeo. 


Walterus  Walensis  tenet  feodum  j  militis  in  Han- 
neie12  quod  fuit  Willelmi  Martelli.13 

Willelmus  de  Neville  tenet  feodum  dimidii  militis  in 
Mortone  quod  fuit  Hunfridi14  Yis  de  Lou. 

Hugo  de  Sanford  tenet  xam  15  partem  militis  in  Mortone 
quod  fuit  dicti  Hunfridi.16 


Fo.  loi  d.  Carta  Militum  Honoris  de  Walingeford.17 


Isti  sunt  milites  de  honore  f effati  Waringforde  : — 
Nicholaus18  Basset,  x  milites. 

Gilbertus  19  Basset,  vij  milites. 


1  Achardi,  L.  N. 

2  fefavit,  L.  N. 

3  Banactun,  L.  N. 

4  Et  Hugo  de  Brutinolle,  L.  N. 
i  feofaius,  L.  N. 

6  Sifrewast,  L.  N. 

7  Siffrewast,  L.  N. 

8  quem  in  MS. 

9  feofatum,  L.  N. 

10  Chauz,  L.  N. 

11  feofavit,  L.  N. 


insertion. 

17  Carta  militum  feofatorum  de 


the  two  preceding  entries  are  a  later 


honore  Warengeford ,  L.  N. 
18  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 

18  Giltbertus,  L.  N, 


12  Hanneye,  L.  N. 

13  Martel,  L.  N. 

14  Humfridi,  L.  N. 

15  ar,  L.  N. 

16  Honfridi,  L.  N.,  where  this  and 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


309 


Bercscira — cont. 

Turstanus  Basset,  vj  milites  et  ij  partes  militis.  A.D.  iiC6. 
Willelmus  Pippard,1  vj  milites. 

Petrus  de  Mara,  iij  milites. 

Gilbertus 2  de  Bella  Aqua,  iij  milites. 

Walterus  Canutus,  v  milites. 

Radulfus  filius  Almarici,  iiij  milites. 

Robertus  filius  Alein,3  iij  milites. 

Galfridus  Boterel,  iij  milites. 

Terra  Rogeri  filii  Auredi,4  iij  milites. 

Gilbertus  Huscarle,5  iij  milites. 

Galfridus  de  Clintone,  iij  milites  et  tertiam  partem 
militis. 

Robertus  filius  Am  auri,  iij  milites. 

Episcopus  Sarrisbiriensis,6  ij  milites. 

Johannes  Marscallus,7  ij  milites. 

Morevanus,  ij  milites. 

Walterus  Foliot,  ij  milites. 

Hugo  filius  Ricardi,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Drueval,  ij  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Ceasecha,8  ij  milites. 

Ruel[ent]  de  Alverso,  ij  milites. 

Alanus  de  Yalen[es],  ij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Chaineto,  ij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Langetot,  j  militem. 

Osmundus  Basset,  j  militem  et  quartam  partem 
militis. 

Wakelinus9  Visus  Lupi,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Corbete,10  j  militem. 

Carbonei,11  j  militem. 

Robertus  Pippard,12  j  militem. 


1  Pipard,  L.  N. 

2  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

3  AI  ani,  L.  N. 

4  Alvredi,  L.  N. 

5  Gilebertus  Huscarl,  L.  N. 

*  Saresbiriensis ,  L.  N. 


7  Marescallus,  L.  N. 

8  Ceaseza,  L.  N. 

9  Watkelinus,  L.  N. 

10  Corbet,  L.  N. 

11  Carbonellus,  L.  N. 

12  Pipard,  L.  N. 


310 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Bercscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Simo  de  Stantone,  j  militem. 

Fulco  Basset,  j  militem. 

Gilbertus 1  filius  Safridi,  j  militem. 

De  Santresdone,  j  militem. 

Richer 2  de  Pangeburne,  j  militem. 

Urveius  Malet,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Radulfus  de  Airel,3  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Eura,  dimidium  militem. 

Anketil  de  Wicumbe,  dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  de  Mara,  quartam  partem  militis. 

Hugo  filius  Osberti,  dimidium  militem. 

Milo  de  Antiseia,4  j  militem  de  Tidoura. 

Haneladus  5  de  Bidun,  j  militem  de  Walintone.6 
Stephanus  filius  Riulfi  et  Philippus  de  West- 
m[er]dele,  dimidium  militem.7 

Libere  tenentes  de  eodem  honore.8 

Filius  Roberti  filii  Petri,  ij  9  hidas. 

Willelmus  Cabuiz,  ij  9  hidas. 

Walterus  Archidiaconus,  j  hidam. 

Ernaldus,  j  hidam. 

Radulfus  Pinei,  j  hidam. 

Godcelinus,10  j  hidam. 

Huna,  j  hidam. 

Sewalus,  j  hidam. 

Reinbert,  j  hidam. 

Bemerius,  j  hidam. 

Muriei,  j  hidam. 

Anketil  Pinei,  j  hidam,  dimidia  virgata  minus. 


1  Galfridus,  L.  N. 

2  Richier,  L.  N. 

3  Deairel,  L.  N. 

4  Antiseie,  L.  N. 

5  Hanelald,  L.  N. 

*  Wadlintone,  L.  N. 


7  After  militem  L.  N.  reads,  for 
the  sum,  iiijx*xix  quarterium. 

8  The  rubric  in  L.  N.  is  Carta 
filii  Roberti  filii  Petri. 

9  duas,  L.  N. 

I  10  Godeelinus,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


311 

Bercscira— cont. 

Willelmus  Toly,1  dimidiam  hidam.  A.D.  1166. 

Galfridus  Cocus,  dimidiam  hidam. 

Gilbertus,2  dimidiam  hidam. 

Alfricus  Pistor,  j  virgatam. 

Simon  Dispensator,  j  virgatam. 

Uxor  Roberti  Vigilis,  j  virgatam. 

Filius  Hervei,  j  virgatam. 

Robertus  filius  Aroldi,3  j  ‘virgatam  et  dimidiam. 

Uxor  Kaskilli,4 5  dimidiam  virgatam. 


Toraldus 6  de  Pesemere,  dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  de  Sortebroc,  j  militem. 

J ohannes  Belet,  quintam  6  partem  militis. 

Johannes  de  Erlega,  j  militem. 

Alexander  filius  Ricardi,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Sifrewast,  j  militem. 

Walterus  Walensis  cum  haerede  Geroldi  de  Ripa,  unum 
militem.7 

Alanus  Basset  tenet  feodum  j  militis  in  Wicumba. 
Robertus  de  Veteri  Ponte  tenet  feodum  j  militis  in 
Wicumba.8 


1  Toli,  L.  N. 

2  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

3  Haroldi,  L.  N. 

4  CaskilH,  L.  N. 

5  \_T~\oroldus,  L.  N.,  •where  this 
and  the  seven  following  entries  are 
in  a  slightly  later  hand. 

6  v<am,  L.  N. 


7  After  militem  L.  N.  reads  de 
feodo  Willelmi  Martel,  which  was 
probably  written  as  the  rubric  to 
the  two  subsequent  entries  in  the 

I  MS.  and  afterwards  erased. 

8  Wicomba,  L.  N.,  where  this 
I  and  the  preceding  entry  are  in  a 
I  still  later  hand. 


312 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


a.d.  1166.  BOKINGHAMSCIRA.1 

Fo.  102.  Carta  Comitis  Walteri  Giffard.2 

Comes  Walterus  Giffard  3  habuit  hos  milites  feffatos  4 
de  veteri  feffamento 5 : — 

Hugo  Bolebache 6  debebat  Comiti  servitium  xx 
militum. 

Galfridus  filius  Willelmi,  xxvij  militum. 

Manasser  7  Biset,  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Saukeville,  j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Noers,8  j  militis. 

Gerardus  de  Grainville,  iij  militum. 

Wido  de  Rocheford,  iij  militum. 

Ricardus  Tallebot,9  ij  militum. 

Willelmus  Passelewe,10  iij  militum. 

Willelmus  Buteri,  v  militum. 

Petrus  Corbuzone,11  v  militum. 

Ricardus  filius  Mabilise,  iiij  militum. 

Gerardus  de  Reddenham,  ij  militum. 

Walterus  de  Westone,  ij  militum. 

Jordan  de  Belnair,12  ij  militum. 

Paganus  de  Dortone,  j  militis. 

Henricus  de  Oyli,13  j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Cresi,14  j  militis. 

Elyas 15  Giffard,  ij  militum. 

Robertus  de  Neville,  j  militis. 

Radulfus  de  Lucintone,  j  militis. 

Matildis  de  Bec,  j  militis. 

Filius  Willelmi  filii  Rogeri,  j  militis. 


1  Bukingham&cira  in  a  later 
hand  in  MS. ;  Bukingehamscira, 
L.  N. 

2  Giffardi,  L.  N. 

3  Giffardus,  L.  N. 

4  fefatos,  L.  N. 

k  fef amento,  L.  N. 

*  Bolebeche,  L.  N. 

7  Manser,  L.  N. 


8  Nuers,  L.  N. 

9  Talebot,  L.  N. 

10  Passelew,  L.  N. 

11  Corbucone,  L.  N. 

12  Belnai,  L.  N. 

“  Oili,  L.  N. 

14  Creissi,  L.  N. 

16  Helias,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCAOCARIO, 


313 


Bokinghamscira — cont. 


Hamo  filius  Beneri,  dimidii  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Sancta  Fide,  dimidii  militis. 

Robertus  de  Bedeford,1  dimidii  militis. 

Sawallus  de  Crendone,2  iiij  militum,3  ad  corredium 
Comitis. 

Gerardus  de  Bodinghame,4  dimidii  militis. 

Alanus  de  Bodingeham,  dimidii  militis. 

Adam  de  Sancto  Laurentio,  dimidii  militis. 

Ricarius  de  Witewlle,5  dimidii  militis. 

Ricardus  Makerel,  dimidii  militis. 

De  novo  autem  feodo 6  habet  Hugo  de  Milleville 
feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Willelmus  Cokerel,  dimidii  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Bureville,7  dimidii  militis. 

Carta  Willelmi  Malduit  Camerarii. 

Sciant  tam  praesentes  quam  futuri  quod  Willelmus 
Malduit,  Camerarius 8  tot  invenit  milites  feffatos 9  de 
tenemento  Michaelis  de  Hamlespe10  quando  Rex  Hen- 
ricus  dedit  ei  praedictum  tenementum  : — 

Robertus  de  Haiso,11  de  j  milite. 

Et  Robertus  filius  Warini,12  de  tribus  partibus  j  13 


militis. 


Postea  vero  idem  Willelmus  praedictus  feffavit14  de 
dominio  suo,  Johannem  Malduit  de  feodo  j  militis  ;  et 
Willelmum  15  Lupum  de  feodo  dimidii  militis;  et 


1  Bodeford,  L.  N. 

2  Sawalus  de  Creendone,  L.  N. 


8  fef amento,  L,  N. 

7  Burville,  L.  N. 

8  On  an  erasure  in  L.  N. 

9  fef atos,  L.  N. 

10  Hamslepe,  L.  N. 

11  Haisso,  L.  N. 

12  Warneri,  L.  N.,  where  et  is  re- 


3  Rectius  dimidii  militis,  as  in 
L.  N.  ;  but  there  the  d  being 
partly  erased,  the  four  remaining 
minims  would  seem  to  have  been 
read  by  the  scribe  as  iiij. 


4  Bodingeham,  L.  N. 


ferred  to  the  preceding  sentence. 

13  unius,  L.  N. 

14  feofavit,  L.  N. 

15  Et  Willelmum,  L.  N. 


6  Witewelle,  L.  N.,  where  this 
entry  precedes  that  of  Adam  de 
Sancto  Laurentio. 


314 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Bokinguamscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Hugonem  1  Lupum  de  iiij* 2  parte  militis. 

Walterum  filium  Gundewin  3  de  iiija  2  parte  militis. 
Jordanum  de  la  Treburia  4  de  iiija  2  parte  militis. 

Summa  de  veteri  et  de  novo  f effatis  5  iiijor  milites  et 
dimidium  [militis]. 

Fo.  io2  a.  Carta  Willelmi  de  Serintone. 

Willelmus  de  Serintone  tenet  de  Rege  in  capite  feoda 
ij  6  militum  et  nullum  militem  [habet]  f  effatum.7 

Carta  Hamonis  filii  Meinfelin.8 

Sciant  omnes  quod  ego  Hamo  filius  Meinfelin  debeo 
domino  Regi  servitium  xv  militum,  de  quibus  feffatis  5 
habeo  de  veteri  feffamento  9 

Bertram  de  Verdone,10  ij  milites. 

Peverel 11  de  Bello  Campo,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Galfridi,  ij  milites. 

Stephanus  de  Bello  Campo,  j  militem. 

Alexander  de  Ysenhamstede,12  j  militem. 

Warnerus  de  Vacca,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Alani,  j  militem. 

Bartolomseus  de  Luctone,  j  militem. 

Hamo  Niger,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  Macer,  vam  13  partem  j  militis. 

Et  de  novo  feffamento 9 : — 

Oenus  de  Stokes,  iiijor  14  partes  militis.15 
Rogerus  Vis  de  Lou,16  vam13  partem  j  militis. 


1  Et  Hugonem ,  L.  N. 

2  quarta,  L.  N. 

3  Gutidewini,  L.  N. 

4  Latteburia,  L.  N. 

5fefatis,  L.  N. 

6  duorum,  L.  N. 

7  habet  feofatum,  L.  N. 

8  Walkelini,  L.  N. 


9  fef amento,  L.  N. 

10  Verdun,  L.  N. 

11  Peverellus. 

12  Isenhamstede,  L.  N. 

13  quintam,  L.  N. 

14  quatuor,  L.  N. 

15  j  militis,  L.  N. 

16  Leu,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


315 


Bokinghamscira — cont. 

Henricus  de1  Freine,  dimidium  militem. 

Bernerus  filius  Azur,2  vam  3  partem  j  militis. 
Azsurus  Rufius,4  xam  partem  j  militis.5 
Simon  filius  Berneri,  xmam  partem  j  militis. 

Summa  de  veteri  fefiamento  6  et  de  novo  xiij  milites 
et  iij  partes  j  militis. 

Residuum  super  dominium  meum. 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Winlesores.7 

Domino  suo  Henrico  Dei  gratia  illustri  Anglorum 
Reed,  Willelmus  de  Windlesores  salutem. 

Sciat  Dominus  meus  Henricus  illustris  Rex  Anglorum 
quod  haec  sunt  nomina  militum  qui  fuerunt  f effati  ex 8 
veteri  fefiamento.9 

Nicholaus  10  filius  Toroldi  habet  feoda  ij  11  militum. 
Robertus  de  Jerlega,  j  militis. 

Ricardus  filius  Turstani,  apud  Willehale,  j  militis. 
Ranulfus  de 1  Broc,  apud  Piperherge,  j  militis. 
Philippus  de  Hertmere,  j  militis. 

Walterus  de  Bedefunt,12  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Etona,  apud  alium  Budefunt,  j  militis 
de  maritagio  Annae  43  uxoris  patris  sui.14 
Willelmus  Porchet,  apud  Boveneiam,  j  militis  de 
maritagio  Annae 13  uxoris  suae. 

Ricardus  de  Raimes,  apud  Stan welle,  j  militis  de 
maritagio  matris  suae.15 
Robertus  de  Burneham,  j  militis. 


1  del,  L.  N. 

2  Atsur,  L.  N. 

3  quintam,  L.  N. 

4  Atsurus  Rufus,  L.  N. 
6  x  partem  militis,  L.  N. 

6  fef amento,  L.  N. 

7  Windleores,  L.  N. 

8  feofati  de,  L.  N. 


9  feof amento,  L.  N. 

10  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 

11  duorum,  L.  N. 

12  Budefunt,  L.  N. 

13  Aince,  L.  N.,  but  the  i  is  partly 
erased  in  the  former  entry. 

14  sua,  L.  N. 

15  sui,  L.  N. 


316 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Bokinghamscira — cont. 

Willelmus  filius  Toroldi 1  de  Penbroc,  apud  Hare- 
matog,  ij  militum. 

Adam  de  Burnham 2  et  Reginaldus  de  Waltham, 
j  militis. 

Galfridus  filius  Petri  et  Hugo  de  Duna,  j  militis. 
Walterus  Pinleis  3  et  Serio  Malesmains,4  j  militis. 
Hugo  de  Berga,  dimidii  militis. 

Haec  sunt  nomina  eorum  qui  tenent  de  novo  feffa- 
mento  5 : — 

Hugo  de  Winlesores,6  apud  Horslegam,  j  militis. 
Willelmus  de  Hastinges,  apud  Comtone,7  dimidii 
militis. 

Alexander  de  Winlesores,8  in  eadem  villa  habet 
iija,m  o  partem  militis. 

Et  super  dominium  meum  restant  duo  milites,  excepta 
tertia  parte  militis. 

Carta  Hugonis  de  Chahaines. 

De  veteri  feffamento5  tenet  Hugo  de  Chahaines  de 
Rege  ij  10  partes  militis  quas  Rex  dedit  ei  cum  haerede 
ipsius  terrae  in  Bukinghamscira.11 


Carta  Walteri  de  Bolebech.12 

Haec  est  agnitio  de  tenemento  Walteri  de  Bolebec 
quod  Rex  ei  reddidit  post  mortem  Hugonis  de  Bolebec 
fratris  sui,  scilicet,  vj  milites  feodatos  ex  tempore  Regis 
Henrici,13  et  ante  mortem  ejus,  et  ij  14  milites  quos  Abbas 
de  Rameseia  tenet  vi  et  warantisia 16  Regis  et  ejus  prae- 


1  Geroldi,  L.  N. 

2  Burneham,  L.  N. 

8  Puileis,  L.  N. 

4  Malesmeins,  L.  N. 

8  fef amento,  L.  N. 

6  Windlesores,  L.  N. 

7  Cumtone,  L.  N. 

8  Windleores ,  L.  N. 


9  tertiam,  L.  N. 

10  duas,  L.  N. 

11  Bukingehamscira,  L.  N. 

12  Bolebec,  L.  N. 

13  Henrici  Regis,  L.  N. 

14  duos,  L.  N. 

13  warantisa,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


317 


Bokinghamscira — cont. 

sidio  sicut  propriam  ejus  elemosinam ;  ex  quibus  nullum 
servitium  habuit  postquam  Rex  praedictam  terram  ei 
reddidit.  Et  haec  sunt  nomina  militum  : — 

Raveingus 1  de  Musindone 2  tenet  feodum  dimidii 
militis. 

Turstanus  filius  Simonis,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 
Radulfus  de  Calvintone,  feodum  j  militis. 

Galfridus  Pigate,3  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Gray,4  feodum  j  militis. 

Radulfus  Gibbe  wine,  et  Gilbertus  5  Brekespere,  feo¬ 
dum  ij  6  militum. 

Et  quod  superest  de  debito  Regis  super  suum  domi¬ 
nium  est,  scilicet,  feoda  ij 6  militum  de  x 7  militibus 
quos  debet  Regi. 

Carta  Gilberti  de  Pinkeyni.8 

Domino  suo  Regi  Gilbertus  de  Pinkeni 9  haec  notificat. 
Certum  est  me  ix  10  milites  et  dimidium  habere  feffatos 11 
ex  antiquo  feffamento 12  tempore  Regis  Henrici,  hos  sci¬ 
licet  : — 

Willelmus  filium  Ricardi,  qui  tenet  feoda  ij  6  mi¬ 
litum  et  dimidii. 

Henricus  filius  Roberti  de  Pinkeny,13  v  milites  et 
dimidium. 

Gilo  de  Pinkeny,13  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Robertus  de  Wanci,  j  militem. 

Richerus  Neirenuit,  j  militem. 

Et  postea  dedit 14  Henrico,  filio  meo,  feodum  j  militis 
de  dominio. 


1  Raveningus,  L.  N. 

2  Mussindone ,  L.  N. 

3  Pigacfiusl,  L.  N. 
*  Grai,  L.  N. 

5  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

6  duorum,  L.  N. 
t  decem,  L.  N. 


8  Gileberti  de  Pinkenni,  L.  N. 

9  Gilebertus  de  Pinkeni,  L.  N. 

10  Rectius  xj,  L.  N. 
nfefatos,  L.  N. 

12  fef  amento,  L.  N. 

13  Pinkeni,  L.  N. 

M  dedi,  L.  N. 


318 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Bokinghamscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Et  Gilberto,1  filio  meo,  dimidium  militem. 

Restat  adhuc  super  dominium  meum  servitium  ij  2  mi¬ 
litum. 

Carta  Ricardi  filii  Nigelli. 

Henrico  Reofi  Anulorum,  et  Duci  Normannorum  et 
Aquitannorum,  Comiti  Andegavorum,  domino  suo  dilecto, 
Ricardus  filius  Nigelli  salutem  et  fidelia  servitia. 

Sciatis  quod  ego  teneo  de  vobis  in  capite  feoda 
j  militis  et  dimidii  de  veteri  feffamento  3  scilicet,  de  die 
et  anno  quo  Rex  Henricus  avus  vester  fuit  vivus  et 
mortuus. 

Et  Walterus,  frater  meus,  tenet  medietatem  de  me, 
scilicet,  iij  partes  feodi  j  militis ;  et  ego  teneo  in 
dominio  aliam  medietatem. 

Carta  Gilberti  de  Bolebec.4 

Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Duci  Normannorum  et  Aqui¬ 
tannorum,  Comiti  Andegavorum,  carissimo  domino  suo, 
Gilbertus 5  de  Bolebec  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Notum  sit  vobis  quod  ego  teneo  de  vobis  in  capite 
feodum  j  militis  quod  Herbertus,6  pater  meus,  tenuit 
tempore  Regis  Henrici  avi  vestri,  scilicet,  die  et  anno 
quo  ipse  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus,  et  est  de  veteri  fefia- 
mento.3  Yalete. 

Radulfus7  Comes  Albemarlae  tenet  Lintone  Wana- 
tinge,8  Nortone,  per  iij  milites  de  dono  Regis  Ricardi.9 

Hugo  de  Bello  Campo  tenet  de  honore  de  Etone. 


1  Gileberto,  L.  N. 

*  duorum,  L.  N. 

3  fef amento,  L.  N. 

4  Gileberti  de  Bolebech,  L.  N. 

5  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

6  flerebertus ,  L.  N. 


7  Sic  in  MS. ;  Baldewinus,  L.  N. 

8  Wanetinge,  L.  N. 

9  This  and  the  two  following 
entries  are  in  the  same  hand  as  the 
Henry  II.  Carta;  in  the  MS.,  but  in 
a  later  hand  in  L.  N, 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


319 


Bokinghamscira — cont. 

Alarms  Basset  tenet  xx  libratas  terrae  in  Wicumbe  A.D.  1166. 
per  servitium  j  1  militis. 


BEDEFORDSCIRA. 

Carta  Simonis  de  Bello  Campo.2 

Baronia  Simonis  de  Bello  Campo :  — 

Robertus  de  Bray  3  et  Willelmus  filius  Nigelli,  ij 
milites  et  quintam  partem  j  4 5  militis. 

Herebertus  de  Carletone,  xam  5  partem  j  militis. 

Willelmus  Salvagius,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Scrupeny,6  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Gervasii,  dimidium  militem. 

Walterus  Rufius 7  et  Robertus  filius  Ricardi,  di¬ 
midium  militem. 

Radulfus  Wigain  8  et  Libor  et  Radulfus  filius  As- 
cel[ini],  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Galfridi,  Willelmus  de  Ferran,9 
Radulfus  Mansel,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  Picot,  vam  10  partem  militis. 

Jordanus  de  Heverishou,11  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Willelmus  Malherbe,  et  Willelmus  Passelewe,  et 
Thomas  de  Brunham  12  et  Avenel,  ij  milites. 

Simon  Perce  Soil 13  et  Simon  de  Leia,  dimidium 
militem. 

Willelmus  Brito,  dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  de  Coldintone,14  dimidium  militem. 

Walterus  Assner  15  et  Robertus  filius  Adam,  dimi¬ 
dium  militem. 


1  unius,  L.  N. 

2  L.  N.  adds  de  feodis  suis. 

3  Broi,  L.  N. 

4  L.  N.  omits  j. 

5  jr,  L.  N. 

6  Srepenni,  L.  N. 

•  Rufus,  L.  N. 

8  Wigaine,  L.  N. 


9  Ferfou,  L.  N. 

10  quintam,  L.  N. 

11  Hevereshuu,  L.  N. 

12  Bruham,  L.  N. 

13  Percesuil,  L.  N. 

14  Goldintone,  L.  N. 

15  Asner,  L.  N, 


320 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 1166. 

Fo.  103  d. 


Bedefordscira — cont. 

Willelmus  Wigain,  et  David  Malherbe,  et  Ricardus 
de  Haia,  dimidium  militem. 

Nigellus  Malherbe,  et  Simon  Basset,  et  Radulfus  de 
Havereshaga,1  et  Simon  Druel,  j  militem  et  vi¬ 
cesimam  partem  militis. 

Nigellus  de  Saleford,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  Monachus2  et  Robertus  Foliot,  dimidium 
militem. 

Hugo  de  Bello  Campo,  j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Beuforde,3  j  militem. 

Nicholaus  de  Caishou,4  j  militem. 

Ricardus  Engaine,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Orenges  et  Stephanus  de  Turwe,5 6 
j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Saleford  et  Robertus  de  Cotes,  ij  mi¬ 
lites. 

Rogerus  Loerenc,  iij  milites  et  vam  6  partem  militis. 

Ricardus  Gubiun,  et  Henricus  de  Poterna,  et 
Prestelleia,7  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Warnerius,  et  Radulfus  de  Stottone,  Robertus  Par¬ 
vus,  et  Walterus  Clericus,  et  Henricus  Blancfrunt, 
et  Jordanus  filius  Fuleheri,  dimidium  militem. 

Walterus  Blancfrunt,  et  Nicholaus8  Sacerdos,  et 
Willelmus  Clericus,  et  Hugo  Picot,  et  Fertin,9  et 
Rogerus  Mice,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  Brien,  j  militem  et  dimidium  et  vtam 
partem  j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Welbue,10  j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Breteville,11  et  Radulfus  filius  Bernardi, 
j  militem. 


1  Hevereshaga,  L.  N. 

2  Monacus,  L.  N. 

3  Beauforde,  L.  N. 

4  Nicolaus  de  Caieshou,  L.  N. 

5  Turw^i,  L.  N. 

6  v,  L.  N. 


7  Presteleia,  L.  N. 

8  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 

9  Fortin,  L.  N. 

10  Wellebue,  L.  N. 

11  Breteville,  L.  N, 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


321 


Bedefordscira — cont. 

Thomas  de  Stactone  et  Radulfus  filius  Radulfi,  A.D.  1166. 
vtami  partem  militis. 

Willelmus  Hubalt2  et  Ricardus  de  Estwico,3  di¬ 
midium  militem. 

Yvo,4  et  Paganus  filius  Osmundi,  et  Hugo  de 
Yspania,5  et  Matildis  de  Broma,  et  Willelmus  de 
Goldstane,6  et  Thomas,  dimidium  militem. 

Paganus,  xam  7  partem  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Pagani,  xxam  8  partem  militis. 

Ricardus  filius  Normanni  et  Willelmus  de  Hevers- 
ham,9  xmam  partem  j  militis. 

Robertus  Malherbe,  et  Paganus  filius  Bricii,  et 
Thomas  de  Goldintone,  ij  milites  et  dimidium  et 
decimam  partem  militis. 

Ernulfus,  et  Ketelbern,10  et  Reginaldus  Clericus,  et 
Ernulfus  de  Bruham,  xam  11  partem  militis  et 
decimum  denarium 12  quando  Rex  accipit  j  mar- 
cam  de  milite. 

Omnes  isti  sunt  de  veteri  feffamento.13 

Summa  est  xxxvj  milites  et  dimidium  militis  et 
xa  14  pars  militis,  et  xus  15  denarius  quando  Rex  accipit 
marcam  de  milite. 

Isti  sunt  de  novo  feffamento 16  : — 

Hugo  de  Bello  Campo,  j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Candos,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  filius  Radulfi,  j  militem. 

Petrus  de  Goldintone,  j  militem. 


1  v,  L.  N. 

2  Hubolt,  L.  N. 

3  Estwic,  L.  N. 

4  Ivo,  L.  N. 

5  Hispania,  L.  N. 

6  Goldstan,  L.  N. 
I  x,  L.  N. 

8  xx,  L.  N. 

63377- 


9  Heveresho,  L.  N. 

10  On  an  erasure  in  the  MS. 

11  decimam,  L.  N. 

12  x  denarios,  L.  N. 

13  fefamento,  L.  N. 

14  decima,  L.  N. 

15  decem  denarios ,  L.  N. 

18  feodamento,  L.  N. 

X 


322 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Bed  efordscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Oalfridus  Loerengus,  et  Reinbergus,  et  Serio  Cof- 
finus,1  j  militem. 

Johannes  Loereng,2  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Sancto  Edwardo  et  Johannes  Butiler,3 
j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Walteri,  et  Willelmus  Gernet,  et 
Radulfus  Folenfont,4  et  Osbertus 5  Cantor,  et 
Radulfus  Engaine,  et  Willelmus  Toald,6  et  Wil¬ 
lelmus  de  Heverho,  et  Avenel,  et  Ri cardus 
Monachus,7  j  militem  et  xijum  denarium  8  quando 
Rex  accipit  marcam  de  milite. 

Sumina  est  viij 9  milites  et  xijus  denarius 8  quando 
Rex  accipit  marcam  de  milite. 

Summa  duarum  summarum  xliiij  milites  et  dimidium 
[militis]  et  quinta  pars  militis,  et  vjus  denarius  10  quando 
Rex  accipit  marcam  de  milite. 

Et  remanent  super  sua  dominia  et  maritagia  ix  mi¬ 
lites  et  vta  11  pars  militis  et  xus  denarius 12  quando  Rex 
accipit  marcam  de  milite. 

Carta  Walteri  de  Wahulle. 

Domino  suo  dilectissimo  Regi  Anglorum,  suus  Wal- 
terus  de  Wahulle  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Mando  vobis  quod  pater  meus  et  ego  habuimus  anno 
et  die  quo  Rex  Henricus  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus  xxvij 
milites  feodatos  de  antiquo  feffamento  13  et  iij  faciebam 
de  meo  dominio.  Et  de  istis  militibus  feffatis  14 : — 

Hugo  de  Lega  tenet  feoda  x  militum. 

Simon  filius  Petri,  dimidium  militem. 


1  Cophin,  L.  N. 

2  Loarengus,  L.  N 

3  Butelier,  L.  N. 

4  Folenfant,  L.  N. 

5  Osebertus,  L.  N. 

e  Tuald,  L.  N. 

7  Monacus,  L.  N. 


8  xij  denarios,  L.  N. 

9  viijt0,  L.  N. 

10  vj  denarios,  L.  N. 

11  quinta,  L.  N. 

12  x  denarios,  L.  N. 
18  fef amentum,  L.  N. 
ufefatis,  L.  N, 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


323 


Bedefordscira — cont. 

Simon  Mala  Opera,  juvenis,  ij  milites. 

Simon  Mala  Opera,  senex,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  Buteville,1  ij  milites. 

Rogerus  Foliot,  iij  milites. 

Rieardus  Gubio,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Pluntone,2  dimidium  militem. 

Stephanus  de  Weltone,  iij  milites. 

Turgius  clericus  de  Patesulle,3 4  vtam  4  partem  mi¬ 
litis. 

Ernulfus  de  Pateshulle,  ytam  partem  militis.5 6 

Baldewinus  filius  Ricardi,  iiijtam  6  partem  mi¬ 
litis. 

Willelmus  Rispald,  xam7  partem  militis. 

Robertus  Cognatus,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Caltone,  dimidium  militem. 

Alanus  Caperun,  iiijam  6  partem  militis. 

Radulfus  Fretecoke,8  et  frater  ejus,  iij  am9  partem 
militis. 

Willelmus  de  Patemera,  iiijam  6  partem  militis. 

Hugo  filius  Reginaldi,  j  militem. 

Et  de  meo 10  dominio,  ad  perficiendum  xxx  milites 
quos  ego  vobis  debeo,  vobis  debeo  servitium  iij  11  mi¬ 
litum.  Et  de  hoc  dominio  feffavi 12  ego  post  [mortem] 
Hern  ici  Regis,  j  militem  et  dimidium,  scilicet :  Willel- 
mum  de  Barintin,13  et  Willelmum  filium  Baldewini,  et 
Willelmum  de  Peri,  et  Radulfum  filium  Rogeri,  de 
dimidio  milite;  et  Stephanum  des  Eschales,14  de  feodo 
j  militis. 


1  Butevile,  L.  N. 

2  Plintone,  L.  N. 

3  Turyisus  clericus  de  Pates¬ 
hulle,  L.  N. 

4  quintam,  L.  N. 

5  quintam  partem,  L.  N.,  omitting 
militis. 

6  quartam,  L.  N. 


I  decimam,  L.  N. 

8  Fretecoc,  L.  N. 

9  tertiam,  L.  N. 

10  novo  in  MS. 

II  trium,  L.  N. 

12  fef  'avi,  L.  N. 

13  Barentin,  L.  N. 

14  On  an  erasure  in  the  MS. 

x  2 


324 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SC  ACC  ARIO. 


Bedefordscira — cont. 


A.D.  1166. 
Fo.  104. 


Carta  Roberti  de  Albeyni.1 

De  baronia  Roberti  de  Aubeyni 1 : — 

Radulfus  Pirot,  v  milites. 

Nigellus  de  Merstone,  iij  milites. 

Almary  2  filius  Radulfi,  ij  milites. 

Johannes  Pirot,  j  militem. 

Rieardus  filius  Radulfi,  et  Ranulfus  de  Charun,3  et 
Osebertus  de  Clintone,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Malherbe,  et  Radulfus  Buinun,  et  Rogerus 
de  Bray,4j  militem. 

Hii  sunt  antiquitus  feffati 5  de  honore  Roberti  de 
Aubeny.1  Summa — xiij  milites. 

Et  super  dominium  xij  milites. 


Summa — xxv  milites. 


WARWICSCIRA.6 

Carta7  Prioris  de  Covintria.8 

Prior  de  Covintiia 8  habet  de  veteri  feffamento  9  fefatos 
vij  milites  et  tertiam  partem  militis10  et  duas  quintas 
partes  militis  et  xmam  partem.  Et  super  dominium  ejus 
quantum  sufficit  ad  perficiendum  x  milites. 

Carta  Willelmi  Comitis  de  Warwico.11 

Venerabili  domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Wil- 
lelmus  Comes  Warwici 11  salutem. 


1  Albenni,  L.  N. 

2  Amalri,  L.  N. 

3  Carun,  L.  N. 

*  Brai,  L.  1ST. 

i  feo/ati,  L.  N. 

e  Warewicscira,  L.  N. 


7  Feoda,  L.  N. 

8  Covintrie,  L.  N. 

9  fef amento,  L.  N. 

10  ;  militis,  L.  N. 

11  Warewic,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


325 


W  AR  WICSCIR  A — COnt. 


Hoc  est  quod  inquisivi  per  homines  de  vetero  feffa- 
mento  meo  1 : — 

Torstanus  de  Monteforde,2 *  feoda  x  militum  et 
iiijtam  3  partem  j  militis. 

Petrus  de  Stodleia,  x  militum. 

Hugo  filius  Ricardi,  x  militum.  Et  ex  hi  is  teneo  in 
manu  mea  feoda  ij  militum,  pro  Badesleia  et 
Derteulla.4 

Galfridus  de  Clintone,  xvij  milites. 

Henricus  de  Arden  e,  v  milites.  Sed  monachi  de 
Pipewelle  5  tenent  de  biis  feodum  dimidii  militis, 
et  monachi  de  Cumba  iiijam  3  partem  j 6  militis 
quiete. 

Hugo  de  Ardene,  v  milites  et  tertiam  partem 
militis.  Sed  Comes  Leycestriae 7  tenet  de  hiis 
feoda  duorum  militum  in  escambio  de  Bungeia. 

Yvo  de  Haruecurt,8  vij  milites.  Sed  pater  meus 
Rogerus  invadiavit  Comiti  Leycestrise 7  de  hiis 
iij  et  dimidium  ;  et  iij  et  dimidium  in  escambio. 
Et  hoc  est  escam  bium  : — 

Pilardintone,  pro  j  milite ;  et  tenet  eam  Ro¬ 
bertas  filius  Willelmi. 

Westone,  pro  j  milite  ;  et  tenet  Robertas  de 
Harecurt. 

Bisseleia,9  pro  j  milite ;  et  tenet  Osbertus 
Trussel.10 

Ludintone,  pro  dimidio  milite ;  et  tenet  Ro¬ 
bertas  de  Vallo. 

Galfridus  de  Tureville,  j  militem. 


1  per  homines  meos  de  antiquo 

fef amento  meo,  L.  N. 

*  Turstanus  de  Monteford,  L.  N. 

*  quartam,  L.  N. 

*  Sic  in  MSS.  Pro  Badesleia  et 

Dertevilla  begin  a  new  paragraph 

in  L.  N. 


5  Pippewelle,  L.  N. 

6  unius,  L.  N. 

7  Leircestrice,  L.  N. 

8  Ivo  de  Harewecurt,  L.  N. 

9  Biseleia,  L.  N. 

10  Osebertus  Trussel,  L.  N. 


326 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D.  1166. 


Fo.  104  d. 


Warwicscira — cont. 

Normannus  de  Bello  Monte,  viij  milites. 

Lucas,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Franketone,  j  militem. 

Nicholaus1  filius  Turaldi,  j  militem. 

Hugo  Habbadene,2  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Lodbroc,  j  militem. 

Philippus  de  Estlega,  iij  milites. 

Walterus  de  Vernun,  iij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Alvers,  iij  milites. 

Robertus  filius  Odonis,  j  militem. 

Hamo  filius  Meinfelin,3  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Giffardus,4  ij  milites. 

Robertus  Marmiun,  j  militem. 

Nigellus  de  Mondeville,5  j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Goher,  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  de  Novo  Burgo,  dimidium  militem. 
Willelmus  de  Turbeville,6  j  militem. 

Terricus  Hareng,7  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Henrici,  iiijam  8  partem  militis.9 
Waltona  solebat  facere  servitium  j  militis,  et  est 
modo  in  dominio  et  tenet  G[undreda]  Comitissa, 
mater  mea,  in  dote. 

De  novo  feffamento  10  de  dominio  meo : — 

R[icardus]  Murdac,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Wintertone,  dimidium  militem. 
Gilbertus 11  de  Segrave,  iiijam  8  partem  j  militis. 
Robertus  filius  Harding,12  iiijam  8  partem  j  militis. 
Swaleewefeld 13  et  Silengesfeld,14  quae  deberent  esse 
de  dominio  meo,  Thomas  de  Sancto  Johanne  et  mater 


1  Nicolaus ,  L.  N. 

2  Habadun,  L.  N. 

3  Meinfelini,  L.  N. 

*  Giffard,  L.  N. 

5  Mundeville,  L.  N. 

6  Turbelville,  L.  N. 

7  Harang,  L.  N. 


8  quartam,  L.  N. 

9  j  militis,  L.  N. 

10  fef amento,  L.  N. 

11  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

12  Hardingi,  L.  N. 

13  Swalefeld,  L.  N. 

14  Sillingefeld,  L.  N 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


327 


W  ARWICSCIRA — cont. 

ejus  deforciant1  mihi,  quod  non  possum  habere  servitium  A.D.  1166. 
nec  aliud. 

Carta  Roberti  Marmiun. 

Hoc  est  vetus  feffamentum 2  Roberti  Marmiun  de 
anno  et  die  quo  Rex  Henricus  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus. 

Picot  de  Lacelis  3  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Johannes  de  Maringis,  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  Bigod,  feodum  j  militis. 

Reginaldus  filius  Ursi,  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Hasting,4  feodum  j  militis. 

Lucas  de  Mars,5  feodum  j  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Grendone,  feodum  j  militis. 

Jordanus  de  Cailli,6  feodum  j  militis. 

Alanus  de  Faleisa,  feodum  j  militis. 

Galfridus  filius  Aligant,  feodum  j  militis. 

Elias  de  Meisi,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Simon  de  Witacre,7  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Henricus  de  Bolebec,  quartam  partem  j  militis. 

Radulfus  de  Rella,  quintam  partem  j  militis. 

Summa — xj  milites  et  iiijta  8  pars  j  militis  et  vta9 
pars  j  militis  de  veteri  feffamento.10 

Post  mortem  Regis  Henri ci,  de  novo  feffamento : — 

Galfridus  Marmiun,  feodum  j  militis. 

Manasser  Anguillun,11  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Radulfi,  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Creft,  feodum  j  militis. 

Walterus  de  Quilli,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Thomas  filius  Turstani,  feodum  dimidii  militis 
Robertus  filius  Walteri,  quartam  partem  j  militis. 

Summa  novi  feflamenti,12  v  milites  et  iiijta 8  pars  j  militis. 


1  difforciant,  L.  N. 

1  f ef amentum,  L.  N. 

3  Laceles,  L.  N. 

*  Hastinges,  L.  N. 

5  Mares ,  L.  N. 

6  Caili,  L.  N. 


7  Hitacre ,  L.  N. 

*  quarta,  L.  N. 

9  quinta,  L.  N. 

10  fefamento,  L.  N. 

11  Aguillun,  L.  N. 
V1  feof amenti,  L.  N. 


A.D.  1166. 


Fo.  105. 


328  LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

LEYCESTRESCIRA.1 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Albeyni  Britonis.2 

H?ec  est  baronia  Willelmi  de  Albenny3  Britonis, 
quam  pater  suus  tennit  et  ipse  post  eum.  Et  isti  sunt 
milites  sui  feffati 4  de  veteri  feffamento 5 : — 

Robertus  de  Albenny,6  frater  suus,  tenet  xv 
milites. 

Robertus  Poer,7  v  milites  et  dimidium. 

Simon  de  Roppelei,8  iij  milites. 

Simon  de  Bosco  Rahara,  iij  milites. 

Radulfus  Claindeduit,9  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Vaus,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Hotot,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Bramtone,  j  militem. 

Ailardus  10  de  Sain  Cler,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Chaurcis,  j  militem  ;  unde  mihi  de- 
forciat11  servitium. 

Et  de  novo  feffamento 5  quod  ipse  fecit  de  suo 
dominio  : — 

Ywanus  de  Albenny,12  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Chavenny,13  j  militem. 

Robertus  Brito,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  Brito,  j  militem. 

Elias  de  Albenni,  j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Sancto  Vedasto,  dimidium  militem  ;  unde 
dominus  Rex  fecit  placitum  suum,  et  unde  ipse 
mihi  non  facit  servitium  aliquod. 


1  Leircestrescira,  L.  N. 

2  Carta  Willelmi  de  Albenni , 
L.  N. 

3  Albenni ,  L.  N. 

4  feofati,  L.  N. 

"  fef amento,  L.  N. 

6  Radulfus  de  Albenni ,  L.  N.,but 

see  Dugdale  I.,  112. 


7  Poher,  L.  N. 

8  Roppeslai,  L.  N. 

9  Chaindeduit,  L.  N. 

10  Aelardus,  L.  N. 

11  difforciat,  L.  N. 

12  Iwanus  de  Albenni,  L.  N. 

13  Chavcnni,  L.  N. 


Liber  rubeus  de  scaccario. 


329 


NORHAMTESCIRA. 

Carta1  Abbatis  de  Burgo.  a.d.  1166. 

Abbas  de  Burgo  habet  de  veteri  feffamento2  lxiij 
milites  et  dimidium  et  tertiam  partem  j  3  militis.  Et 
nullum  militem  4  de  novo  ;  nec  invenitur  in  carta  ejus 
quod  aliquid  sit  super  dominium  ejus. 

Comes  David  tenet  Nesintone  5  et  Jarewelle. 

Carta  Galfridi  Ridel. 

Dilectissimo  domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum, 

Galfridus  Ridel  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Sciatis  quod  Ricardus  Basset,  pater  meus,  tenuit  anno 
et  die  quo  Rex  Henricus  avus  vester  fuit  vivus  et 
mortuus  ixxx  carucatas  6  terrae  et  iiij,  et  j  virgatam,  pro 
feodo  xv  militum.  Sed  nullus  militum  de  veteri  illo 
feffamento 2  feffatus 7  fuit  nominatim  pro  feodo  mi¬ 
litis.  Sed  unaquaeque  carucata  terrae  ad  faciendum 
milites  xv  par  est  alii  ad  omnia  servitia  facienda,  et  in 
exercitubus,8  et  in  custodiis  et  ubique.  Et  isti  sunt  qui 
de  veteri  illo  feffamento 2  tenent : — 

Ricardus  de  Engaine9  tenet  xij  carucatas  terrae 
et  dimidiam. 

Ricardus  filius  Vicecomitis,  x  carucatas  et  di¬ 
midiam. 

Hugo  de  Auvers,  xiij  carucatas  et  dimidiam. 

Acardus  Monachus,10  iij  carucatas  et  dimidiam. 

Canonici  de  Landa,  iij  carucatas  in  Grimestone.11 


1  Feoda,  L.  N. 

2  fefamento,  L.  N. 

3  unius,  L.  N. 

4  L.  N.  omits  militem. 

6  Nessintone,  L.  N.,  where  this 
entrj  is  a  later  addition. 

6  carrucata  and  cases  passim  in 

L.  N. 


7  feqfatus,  L.  N. 

8  exercitibus,  L.  N. 

9  de  Engaine  in  L.  N.  with  the 
de  subpunctuated  for  deletion. 

10  Achardus  Menaeus,  L.  N. 

11  In  Grimmestone,  L.  N.  ;  being 
there  referred  to  the  following  sen¬ 
tence. 


330 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


N  ORHAMTESCIRA — COUt. 

Willelmus  filius  Herberti,1  iij  carucatas  2  et  j  vir¬ 
gatam  in  Torp.3 

Ricardus  de  Flekenai,4  ij  carucatas  et  j  virgatam 
in  eadem  villa. 

Aldenius  de  Flekenai,5  ij  carucatas  in  eadem  villa. 

Ricardus  Venator,  j  carucatam  in  eadem  villa. 

Rogerus  de  Grendone,  j  carucatam  et  dimidiam  in 
Fleckenai.6 

Ricardus  Camerarius,  vj  carucatas  et  dimidiam  in 
Keresby  7  et  in  pertinentiis. 

Willelmus  Burdut,8  iiij  carucatas  in  Radesclive.9 

Uxor  Radulfi  Bassat,10  viij  carucatas  de  dote  sua  in 
Rakendale  et  in  Wileis.11 

Radulfus  filius  Radulfi  Baiset,10  vij  carucatas  et 
dimidiam  in  Dicutone.12 

Willelmus  de  Pelling,13  iij  carucatas  in  eadem  villa. 

Simon  de  Factone,14  j  carucatam  in  alia  Pelling. 

Willelmus  filius  Sansonis,  j  carucatam  in  Bares- 
worthe.15 

Robertus  Revel,  viij  carucatas  in  Swinesforde 16  et 
in  Walecote.17 

Herbertus  filius  Yvonis,18  j  carucatam  in  Cliimb- 
worthe.19 

Lucas  de  Quatremars,  xij  carucatas  in  Overtone  et 
in  Godesby.20 


1  Hereberti,  L.  N. 

2  carrucata  and  cases  passim  in  ' 
L.  N. 

3  Thorp ,  L.  N.,  where  it  is 
similarly  referred  to  the  following 
sentence. 

4  Fleckenai,  L.  N. 

5  Aldeinus  de  Flechenai,  L.  N. 

6  Flecchenai,  L.  N. 

7  Reresbi ,  L.  N. 

8  Burdet,  L.  N. 

9  Radeclive,  L.  N. 


10  Basset,  L.  N. 

11  WiUts,  L.  N. 

12  Bunt  one,  L.  N. 

13  Pellinges,  L.  N. 

14  Foctone,  L.  N. 

lo  Bareswrthe,  L.  N. 

16  Swineford,  L.  N. 

17  Wallecote,  L.  N. 

18  Herebertus  filius  Ivonis,  L.  N. 

19  Chibwrthe,  L.  N. 

20  Godsebi,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


331 


Fo.  105  d. 


Honor 

Walinge- 

ford. 


Norhamtescira — cont. 

Canonici  de  la  Landa 1  tenent  in  elemosinam  in  A.D.  H66. 
Lodintone  x  carucatas,2  et  in  Daubz  3  unam  caru- 
catam  et  iij  bovatas. 

De  novo  feffamento 4 : — 

Johannes  de  Stuteville  tenet  de  dominio  meo  xij 
carucatas  terree  in  Cheteleby5  et  in  Hollewelle  6 
et  in  Herdeby,7  et  in  Hevintone  j  carucatam. 

Hugo  Ridel,  ix  carucatas  et  j  virgatam,  pro  servitio 
j  militis,  in  Welesham  et  in  Suttone  et  in  Din- 
gele. 

Reginaldus  filius  Ursi,  v  carucatas  in  Holt  et  in 
Berlestone. 

Wido  de  Heisele,8  j  carucatam  in  Heisele.8 

Canonici  de  Landa,  in  elemosina,  tenent  in  Westone 
j  carucatam  et  in  Freseby  9  viij  carucatas,  faciendo 
servitium  forinsecum. 

Mascy,10  j  carucatam  in  Weledone. 

In  dominio  meo  remanent  mihi  xxiiij  carucatas  in 
Westone  et  in  Weletone.11  Et  praeter  hoc  Radulfus  filius 
Radulh  Basset  tenet  de  me  Colestonam  quae  est  de 
honore  de  Warengeforde^2  pro  servitio  j  militis,  [feodum] 
quod  Radulfus  Basset,  avus  meus,  tenuit. 

Carta13  Roberti  Foliot. 

De  baronia  Roberti  Foliot  de  veteri  feffamento4 : — 

Michael  Belet,  iiij  milites. 

Thomas  de  Au  dei  y, 14  iiij  milites. 

Abbas  de  Westmonasterio,  j  militem. 

Ernulfus  de  Bosco,  j  militem. 


1  Lande,  L.  N. 

2  carrucata  and  cases  passim  in 
L.  N. 

3  Daubns,  L.  N. 

*  fef amento,  L.  N. 

5  Chetlebi,  L.  N. 

6  Holewelle,  L.  N. 

7  Herdebi,  L.  N. 


8  Eisele,  L.  N. 

9  Fresebi,  L.  N. 

10  Masci,  L.  N. 

11  Welletone,  L.  N. 

12  Warengeford.  L.  N. 

13  Carta  Bar  onire,  L.  N. 

14  Andeli,  L.  N. 


332 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


N  ORH  AMTESCIRA — COVlt. 

Johannes  de  Argentein,1  j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Aldewincle,  dimidium  militem.2 
Willelmus  de  Widwille,  dimidium  militem. 
Willelmus  Fronceis,3  dimidium  militem.2 
Philippus  de  Insula  tenet  iiijam  4  partem  militis. 

Ipse  Robertus  Foliot  tenet  in  dominio  j  5  militem 
de  veteri  feffamento.6 

Et  de  novo  feffamento 6  post  mortem  Henrici 
Regis  : — 

Adam  de  Berneville 7  tenet  iiijtam  8  partem  militis. 
Rolandus  de  Dinant  tenet  feodum  j  militis  et 
dimidii  in  voluntate  domini  Regis. 

Rogerus  de  Munbray,9  j  militem  et  dimidium,  unde 
detinet  michi  servitium. 

Post  conquestum  Anglise  tenuerunt  antecessores  ip¬ 
sius  Roberti  Foliot  per  servitium  xv  militum  et  ipse 
post  illos. 


Carta  Johannis  de  Bidun. 

Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Duci  Normarmorum  et 
Aquitannorum,  Comiti  Andegavorum,  Johannes  de 
Bidun  salutem. 

Sciatis  quod  Radulfus  de  Nuers 10  tenet  de  me 
feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Robertus  de  Curifale,11  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Rolandus  de  Singdone,12  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Neutone  13  et  quidam  alius  Ricardus  de 
eadem  villa  tenent  feodum  j  militis. 


1  Argentune,  L.  N. 

2  militem  omitted  in  L.  N. 

3  Le  Franceis,  L.  N. 

4  quartam ,  L.  N. 

5  unum,  L.  N. 

6  fef amento,  L.  N. 

7  Bernovilla,  L.  N. 


8  iiij,  L.  N. 

9  Moubrai,  altered  to  Munbrai 
in  L.  N. 

10  Nueriis,  L.  N. 

11  Curtfalo,  L.  N. 

12  Sinigdone,  L.  N. 

13  Niewetone,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


333 


N  ORHAMTESCIRA — COUt. 

Galfridus  de  Dona,  iiijtami  pa!q,ern  militis.1 2  a.D.  i  1 66. 

Rogerus  filius  Ranulfi,  iiijtami  part,em  militis.2 

Hii  milites  tenent  de  me  feffati 3  de  tempore  Regis 
Henrici  avi  vestri. 

Et  dominium  meum  se  defendit  per  servitium  duorum 
militum  et  dimidii. 

Summa  est — v  milites  et  dimidium  [militis]. 

[Carta  F[ulconis]  de  Lisuris.]  4 

Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  domino  suo,  R.  de  Lisuris5 
salutem  et  fidele  obsequium. 

Sciatis  quod  non  habeo  aliquem  militem  in  feodo 
feodatum  nec  de  veteri  feodatione  nec  de  nova,  nec 6  de 
feodo  quod  teneo  de  vobis  principaliter,  praeter  unum 
qui  fuit  feodatus  de  dominio  meo,  [feodum]  quod 
Ricardus  Engaine,  avus  meus,  dedit  ultimae  uxori  suae 
in  dotem,  scilicet,  uxori  Ricardi  filii  Ursi,  et  illam 
terram  tenent  adhuc  duae  amitae  meae  quae  servitium 
illud  praedicti  militis  mihi  faciunt.  Valete. 

Et  ego  ipse  custodio ferestagium 7  Regis  de  feodo  meo; 
et  debeo  ire  cum  corpore  Regis  in  servitio  suo  paratus 
equis  et  armis,  cornu  meo  in  collo  meo  pendente. 

Carta  Ricardi  filii  Roberti. 

Dilecto  domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Ricardus 
filius  Roberti  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Sciatis  me  tenere  de  antiquo  feffamento 8  de  vobis 
feodum  iij 9  militum,  cujus,  scilicet,  feodi  ego  teneo  in 
dominio  meo  ij  10  partes  j  militis. 


1  quartam,  L.  N. 

2  j  militis ,  L.  N. 

3feofati,  L.  N. 

4  This  rubric  is  omitted  in  the 

MS.  ;  it  is  supplied  here  from 

L.  N. 

‘  Sic  in  MS.,  but  this  is  an 


evident  misreading  by  the  copyist. 
See,  however,  Dugdale  I.  597. 

6  nec  omitted  in  L.  N. 

7  forestagium,  L.  N. 

9  fef amento,  L.  N. 

9  trium,  L.  N. 

10  duas,  L.  N, 


334 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


N  ORH  AMTESCIRA — COllt. 

A.D.  1166.  Osmunclus  de  Carletone  et  Willelmus  filius  Alvredi, 
j  militem  feofatum  et  tertiam  partem  militis  alius.1 
Edardus  de  Exendone,  unum  militem  feffatum.2 

Yalete. 

Carta  Roberti  de  Chokes. 

De  baronia  Roberti  de  Chokes. 

Simon  3  filius  Petri,  dimidium  militem. 

Saerius  de  Quincy,4  j  5  militem  et  dimidium. 
Stephanus  de  Turs,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Gilbertus 6  de  Prestone,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Ricardus  de  Peco,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Novo  Burgo,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  filius  Sewini,  j  militem. 

Gerard  7  Disel,  j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Pinkeni,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Reo-inaldus  de  Museleia,8  dimidium  militem. 

Uxor  Walteri  Disel,  feodum  j  militis  in  dotem,  quod 
Hugo  de  Craneslai  tenet. 

Et  ipse9  Robertus  de  Chokes  facit  servitium  j 
militis  de  suo  dominio. 

Hanc  baroniam  tenuit  Ansel  lus,  pater  praedicti 
Roberti,  anno  et  die  quo  Rex  Henricus  fuit  vivus  et 
mortuus,  et  inde  faciebat  servitium  xv  militum. 


Fo.  io6.  Carta  Reginaldi  filii  Ursi. 

Reginaldus  filius  Ursy 10  habet  istos  milites  fefiatos11  de 
tempore  Henrici  Regis  avi  domini  Regis,  scilicet : — 
Walterus  de  Haudelfeld,12  j  militem. 

Galfridus  Martel,  dimidium  militem. 


1  alius  militis,  L.  N. 

2  fefatum,  L.  N. 

3  tenet  Simon,  L.  N.,  where 
there  is  not  any  break. 

4  Saierus  de  Quenci,  L.  N. 

5  unum,  L.  N.,  on  an  erasure. 

6  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 


7  Gerardus,  L.  N. 

8  Muselea,  L.  N. 

9  ipsemet,  L.  N\,  where  there  is 
no  break  in  the  entry. 

10  Ur  si,  L.  N. 

11  fe fatos,  L.  N. 

12  Chaudefeld,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


335 


N  ORHAMTESCIRA — COnt. 

Philippus  Corbin,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Reiny,  j  1  militem  f effatum 2 3  de  do¬ 
minio  Ricardi  patris  Reginaldi. 

Willelmus  Belet  tenet  vjtam3  partem  j  militis 4 
similiter  feffati 5  tunc  de  dominio.6 


Carta  Roberti  filii  Albrici  Camerarii.7 

Domino  suo  carissimo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Ro- 
bertus  filius  Albrici  Camerarii,  salutem. 

Sciatis,  domine,  quod  ego  teneo  de  vobis  feodum 
dimidii  militis.  Valete. 


Carta  Osberti  filii  Hugonis.8 


Carta  Osberti 9  filii  Hugonis  est 10  in  defectu,  quia  in 
ejus  carta  quam  miserat  domino  Regi  non  erat  nomen 
praescriptum  quam  secum  tulit  Willelmus  de  Bello 
Campo  ut  cum  nomine  scripto  reportetur. 

Carta  Baldewini  Buelot. 


Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  carissimo  domino  suo,  Balde- 
winus  Buelot  quicquid  convenientius  domino  subjectus 
mandare  potest. 

Noverit  universitas  vestra  quod  de  veteri  feffamento  11 
honoris  de  Wardona  : — 

Ricardus  de  Steppinleia 12  habet  feodum  j  militis. 

Johannes  de  Bel,13  feodum  j  militis  et  iij  14  partes. 

Jordan us  de16  Calvesterne  habet  feodum  j  militis. 

Jordanus  Lenveise,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 


1  Jieini  unum,  L.  N. 

2  fefatum,  L.  N. 

3  sextam,  L.  N. 

4  unius  [ini litis'] ,  L.  N. 

5  feofati,  L.  N. 

6  dominico,  L.  N. 

7  L.  N.  omits  Camerarii. 

8  L.  N.  omits  this  nibric.  This 

return  should  have  been  made 

under  Herefordshire,  where  a  later 


interpolation  will  he  found  intended 
to  supply  the  deficiency. 

9  Oseberti,  L.  N. 

10  est  hic,  L.  N. 

n  feof amento,  L.  N. 

12  Stepping eleia,  L.  N. 

13  Le  Bel,  L.  N. 

14  tres,  L.  N. 

15  L.  N.  omits  de, 


336 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


N  ORHAMTESCIRA - COTlt. 

A.D.  i j. 66.  Et  super  dominium  meum,  iij  1  partes  j  2  militis. 

De  novo  autem  feffamento  3  nullum  militem  feffatum  4 
habeo.5 

Comes  de  Ferariis6  tenet  Hecham  cum  j7  hundredo 
et  dimidio  cum  pertinentiis,8  et  Neobotum,9  et  Blise- 
worthe,10  per  servitium  j  2  militis. 

Walterus  de  Prestone  tenet  Grettone  per  j  militem.11 

Rotelande.12 

Hocham,  Walkelinus 13  de  Ferrariis  defendit  per  j14 
militem  et  dimidium. 


DERBYSCIRA.15 

Carta  Willelmi  Comitis  de  Ferariis. 

Henrico  Regi  Ariglorum,  domino  suo  carissimo,  Wil- 
lelmus  Comes  de  Ferariis  16  salutem. 

Mando  vobis  quod  tempore  Hernici  Regis  avi 
vestri : — 

Henricus  filius  Sawaldi  tenuit  feoda  v  militum  ; 
Fulcherus,  frater  ejus,17  feoda  iiijor  18  militum  ;  et 
modo  Sewaldus 19  haeres  utrorumque  tenet  eosdem 
ix  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Nigelli,  feoda  iiij  militum  ;  et 
Robertus,  filius  suus,  modo  tenet  eosdem  milites. 


1  tres,  L.  N. 

2  unius,  L.  N. 

3  J ej 'amento,  L.  N. 

4  fefatum,  L.  N. 

5  Here  follows  an  erasure  of  one 
line  in  both  MSS. 

6  Ferrariis,  L.  N.,  where  this 
entry  is  in  a  later  hand. 

7  uno,  L.  N. 

8  parco,  L.  N.,  but  the  reading  is 
not  clear. 

9  Neobote,  L.  N, 


10  Blisewrthe,  L.  N. 

11  An  insertion  in  a  slightly  later 
hand ;  omitted  in  L.  N. 

12  Not  rubricated  in  L.  N.,  and  in 
a  later  hand. 

13  Walkelini,  L.  N. 

14  unum,  L.  N. 

15  Derebiscira,  L.  N. 

16  Fereriis,  L.  N. 

17  suus,  L.  N. 

18  iiij,  L.  N. 

19  Sawaldut,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


337 


Derbyscira — cont. 

Ricardus  de  Curcun  ten[uit] 1  feoda  iiij  militum;  A.D.  1166. 
Robertus,  filius  ejus,  modo  tenet  eosdem. 

Walterus  de  Monte  Gumeri,  feoda  iiij  militum. 

Robertus  de  Bakepuz,  feoda  iij  militum. 

Hernicus  de  Boskerville,2  feoda  iij  militum,  quos 
modo  Johannes,  filius  ejus,  tenet. 

Robertus  filius  Walkelini,  feoda  ij  3  militum  ;  modo 
tenet  Robertus,  filius  ejus. 

Robertus  de  Dum,4  feoda  ij  3  militum  ;  modo  tenet 
Jacobus,  filius  ejus. 

Radulfus  Parvus,  feoda  ij 3  militum ;  modo  tenet 
Reginalclus  de  Griseleia.5 

Robertus  de  Liveto,  feoda  ij  3  militum  ;  modo  tenet 
Willelmus  Pantulfus6  per  servitium  j  militis. 

Henricus  de  Cambreis,  feodum 7  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Seyle,8  feoda  ij  militum ;  modo  tenet 
Radulfus,  filius  ejus.9 

Galfridus  Camerarius,  feoda  ij  3  militum ;  quorum 
unum  tenet  Robertus  filius  Radulfi,  et  Petrus 
de  Goldintone  alterum. 

Yvo  de  Harecurt  et  Willelmus  filius  Walkelini,10 
feoda  iij  11  militum  ;  et  modo  tenet  haeres  Gal- 
fridi  Marmionis. 

Ricardus  de  Fifhide,  feoda  ij  3  militum. 

Willelmus  de  Boskerville,  feoda  iij  militum; 
quorum  unum  tenet  Radulfus,  filius  suus,  et 
alterum  Odo  filius  Johannis,  et  pater  meus  dedit 
tertium  Hospitali. 

Galfridus  de  Tiretey,12  feodum  j  militis,  quod  modo 
tenent  Albi  Monachi  ex  donatione  Mauricii,  filii 
sui. 


1  tenet,  L.  N. 

2  Bose  tier  ville,  L.  N. 

3  duorum,  L.  N. 

*  Dun,  L.  N. 

5  Greseleia,  L.  N. 

6  Panlul,  L.  N. 

63377. 


7  feodum  is  repeated  in  L.  N. 

8  Seile,  L.  N. 

9  suus,  L.  N. 

10  W alkelin,lu.  N. 

11  trium,  L.  N. 

12  Tiretei,  L.  N. 

Y 


338 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 1166. 


Fo.  106 d. 


Derbyscira — cont. 

Hubertus  de  Curceini,  feoda  iij  1  militum ;  quorum 
ij 1  2  tenet  Stephanas,  nepos  ejus,  et  tertium  datum 
est  Templo. 

Willelmus  filius  Otonis,  feodum  j  militis,  quod  modo 
tenent  Albi  Monachi  de  Thama.3 

Paganus  de  Niuetone,4 5  feodum  dimidii  militis,  et 
datum  est  Albis  Monachis  de  Cumbremare.6 

Robertas  dq  Chartres,  feodum  j  militis.  Henricus 
de  Cuningestone,6  feodum  j  militis,  quae 7  duo 
tenet  Willelmus  de  Hastinges.8 

Johannes  de  Turbelvulle,9  feodum  j  militis,  et  illud 
tenet  modo  Henricus  Hossatus.10 

Willelmus  de  Trusselay,11  feodum  j  militis,  quod 
tenet  modo  Robertus,  filius  ejus. 

Atrop  Hastenge,12  feodum  j  militis. 

Hos  milites  feffavit 13  avus  meus,  quos  modo  nomi¬ 
nabo  : — 

Nicholaus  de  Breileford,14  feodum  j  militis,  quod 
modo  tenet  Henricus,  filius  ejus. 

Willelmus  filius  Herberti,16  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Sancto  Quintino,  feodum  dimidii 
militis. 

David  de  Stantone,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Ernaldus  dii 16  Bee,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Aciam  filius  Swannii,17  feodum  dimidii  militis,  quod 
modo  tenet  haeres  ejus. 


1  trium,  L.  N. 

2  duo,  L.  N. 

3  Mauricii  filii  sui,  et  Willelmus 
filius  Otonis,  L.  N.,  where  Hubert 
de  Curcttn’s  fief  immediately  pre¬ 
cedes  that  of  Galfiridus  de  Tiretei 
without  a  break. 

4  Niwetone,  L.  N. 

5  Cumbrernara,  L.  N. 

0  Cunegestone,  L.  N. 

7  qui  in  the  MS. 


8  Willelmus  de  Hastinges  begins 
a  new  paragraph  in  MS. 

9  Turbelville,  L.  N. 

10  Hosatus,  L.  N. 

11  Trusselai,  L.  N. 

12  Aitrop  Hasteng,  L.  N. 
13fefiavit,  L.  N. 

14  scilicet,  Nicolaus  de  Breilet- 
ford,  L.  N. 

15  Hereberti ,  L.  N. 

1G  del,  L.  N. 

17  Swanni,  L,  N, 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


339 


Derbyscira — cont. 

Walter  dii1  Bee,  feodum  j  militis,  quod  modo  tenet  A.D.  i  leo. 

Willelmus  de  Ciieisnei. 

Hugo  filius  Ricardi,  feodum  j  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Graindone,  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Albeneio,  feodum  j  militis. 

Radulfus  filius  Willelmi,  feodum  dimidii  militis 
quod  tenet  Hunfridus2  de  Tolka. 

De  Stepla,  feodum  dimidii  militis,  quod  Mauricius 
tenet. 

Landricus,  feodum  j  militis,  quod  tenet  modo  Jor- 
danus,  filius  ejus. 

Hos  feffavit3  dominus  4'  meus  de  dominio  suo. 

Hos  feffavit  Comes,  pater  meus,5  de  dominio  suo  : — 
Hu[n]fridus2  de  Tolka  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Bruencurt  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Galfridus  Salvagius,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Robertus  de  Pir[ario],  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Willelmus  Giffard,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Mauricius  de  Tiretey,6  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Adam,  Vicecomes  Barocsirse,7 8  feodum  dimidii  mi¬ 
litis. 

Willelmus  de  Tolka,  iiijtam  8  partem  j  militis. 

Hugo  Gobio,  (eodum  iij*  9  partis  militis. 

Walterus  de  Sumerville,  iiijtam  8  partem  militis.10 
Willelmus  de  Ferrariis11  tenet  j  manerium  de  do¬ 
minio  patris  sui,12  unde  facit  servitium  iiij  13 
militum.14 

I  del,  L.  N. 

-  Humfridus,  L.  N. 

3  Jejavit,  L.  N. 

*  Sic  in  MS. ;  avus,  L.  N. 

5  pater  meus  Robertus,  L.  N. 

6  Tiretei,  L.  N. 

7  Bercsirce ,  L.  N. 

8  quartam ,  L.  N. 

8  tertia,  L.  N. 

10  j  militis,  L.  N. 

II  Ferieres,  L.  N. 

Y  2 


**  mei,  Li.  n  . 

13  quatuor,  L.  N. 

11  The  order  of  the  above  entries 
in  L.  N.  is  as  follows  :  — 

Mauricius  de  Tiretei. 

Hugo  Gobio. 

Walterus  de  Sumerville. 
Adam  Vicecomes. 

Willelmus  de  Tolka. 
Willelmus  de  Ferrariis. 


340 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Derbyscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Hos  ix  milites  et  tertiam  partem  militis  dedit  pater 
meus  de  dominio  suo. 

Baggarugge  est  de  meis  lx 1  militibus ;  ego  inde 
servitium  vobis  facio.2 

Et  Meinfeninius 3  tenet  illam  contra  me  tantum 
quantum  vobis  placuerit. 

De  Cruc  sum  disseisiatus  sine  judicio  quae  4  est  feodum 
j  militis. 

Haec  est  summa  de  veteribus  et  novis  militibus — 
lxxix  5 6  milites  et  tertia  pars  militis. 


NOTINGHAMSCIRA. 

Carta  Radulfi  Ansel.0 

Domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorurn,  Radulfus  Ansel0 
salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Sciatis  quod 7  de  veteri  feffamento 8  meo,  tempore 
Regis  Henrici  avi  vestri,  Willelmus  Ansel  °  de  Wag- 
reby9  tenet  feoda  duorum  militum. 

Walterus  de  Derintone,  feoda  ij  10  militum. 

Radulfus  de  Mideltone,11  feodum  j  militis. 

Walterus  de  Diggeby 12  et  Willelmus,  duo  pueri, 
feodum  j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Martinwast,  et  Willelmus  de  Sefriwast,13 
et  Peverellus  de  Bello  Campo  tenent  feoda  iij  14 
militum. 

Radulfus  filius  Geremundi,  feoda  ij  militum. 
Robertus  filius  Thomae,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 


1  sexaginta ,  L.  N. 

2  facio  vobis,  L.  N. 

3  Meinf eminus,  L.  N. 

4  qui,  L.  N. 

5  sexaginta  et  x ix,  L.  N. 

6  Hansel\inus~\,  Hansel[ini], 

L.  N. 

7  L.  N.  omits  quod. 


*  fef amento,  L.  N. 

9  Wagrebi,  L.  N. 

'°  duorum,  L.  N. 

11  Middletone,  L.  N. 

12  Diggebi,  L.  N. 

13  Sefreiwast,  L.  N. 

14  trium,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


341 


Notinghamscira— cont. 

Robertas  cie  Bernecot  et  Robertus  filius  Galfridi,  a.d.  i  i 66. 
feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Hernicus  et  Rogerus  de  Westburgo,  feodum  v33 1 
partis  militis. 

Rogerus  Buffard,  xij  2  partem  j  militis. 

De  emptione  Episcopi  Roberti  Bloet,  unde  mater  mea 
maritata  fuit,  [feodum]  quod  de  vobis  in  capite 
tenui,  istud  deforciat 3  mihi  Episcopus  Lincolni- 
ensis.  Hanc  eandem  terram  tenet  Raclulfus  de 
Crumwelle  filius  Hugonis  de  Crumwelle. 

Willelmus4  filius  Hugonis  deforciat 3  c  solidatas 
terrae  quas  dedi  filio  meo  de  dominio  meo. 

Tantum  est  de  veteri  feffamento  5  de  tempore  Regis 
Henrici. 

Istud  6  est  de  novo  : — 

Alexander  de  Creissi 7  tenet  feodum  dimidii  mi¬ 
litis. 

Radulfus  filius  Galfridi,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Germanus  filius  Simonis,  et  Willelmus  Burdet,  et 
Willelmus  de  Lincolnia,  et  Galfridus  filius  Rogeri, 
feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Radulfus  filius  Rogeri  de  Bilestone,  et  Galfridus 
filius  Gilbert  i, s  et  Reginaldus  de  Radeclive,  et 
Johannes  de  Galdi[n]ges,  et  Galfridus  de  Fule- 
leche,9  et  Ulfus  de  Stobbetone,10  et  Willelmus  de 
Westburgo  tenent  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Adam  de  Creissi  tenet  xxiiijam  11  partem  militis,12 
et  totum  aliud  facio  de  meo  dominio  de  xxv 
militibus  quos  vobis  debeo. 


1  quintce,  L.  N. 

2  duodecimam,  L.  N. 

3  difforciat,  L.  N. 

*  Walterus,  L.  N. 
k  fef amento,  L.  N. 

6  Et  istud,  L.  N. 


7  Creisi,  L.  N. 

8  Gileberti,  L.  N. 

9  Fulebech,  L.  N. 

10  Stubbetone,  L.  N. 

11  vicesimam  quartam ,  L.  N. 

12  j  militis,  L.  N. 


342 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


N  OTINGHAMSCIRA — COTlt. 

A.D.  1166.  CARTA  ROGERI  DE  BURON. 

Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Duci  Normannorum,  Aqui- 
tannorum,  et  Comiti  Andegavorum,  Rogerus  de  Buron1 
salutem. 

De  militibus  meis  in  tempore  Regis  Henrici  ita  sciatis 
verum  esse : — 

W.  de  Heriz  tenet  feoda  ij  militum. 

Rogerus  de  Cordingestoke,  feoda  ij  2 3  militum. 

Patricius  de  Rosei,  feodum  j  militis. 

Et  Albertus  quem  pater  meus  feodavit  post  mortem 
Regis  Henrici,  feodum  j  militis. 

Et  ego  ipse  facio  servitium  iiijor  3  militum  de  meo 
dominio. 


Carta  Hascuili  Musard.4 

De  veteri  feffamento 5  Hascuil  Musardi 

Aitorp  Hasting6  tenet  feoda  v  militum. 

Oliverus  de  Mara,  ij  militum. 

Maen[ius]  de  Hatrope,  ij  militum. 

Walterus  de  Estone,  ij  militum.7 

Galfridus  de  Chelewrthe,  j  militis. 

Summa  de  suo  veteri  feffamento5 — xij  milites. 

Et  de  suo  dominio,  de  novo  feffamento  5 : — 

Willelmus  de  Caisneto 8  tenet  feodum  dimidii 
militis. 

Et  uxor  Ricardi  Musard 9  tenet  de  dote  feoda 
ij  2  militum  de  novo. 

Fulco10  de  Monasteriis,  xv 11  partem  j  militis  de 
novo. 


1  Burun,  L.  N. 

2  duorum,  L.  N. 

3  quatwor ,  L.  N. 

*  Carta  Hascuil  Musardi,  L.  N. 

3  fej 'amento,  L.  N. 

6  Aitrop  Hasteng,  L.  N. 


"  ij  militum  repeated  in  L.  N. 

8  Chaisneto,  L.  N. 

9  Musarde,  L.  N. 

10  Et  Fulco,  L.  N. 

11  quindecimam,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


343 


Notinghamscira — cont. 

Carta  Roberti  de  Chauz.  a.d.  11&6. 

De  feoclo  Roberti  de  Chauz  : — 

Galfridus  de  Defremunt  tenet  feoda  ij  militum 1  de 
antiquo  feodo. 

Daniel  de  Crevequer 1  2  tenet  j  feodum  et  dimidium. 

Uxor  Roberti  de  Archis,  ij  feoda. 

Jordanus  de  Cheverincurt,3  feodum  j  militis.4 
Thomas  de  Muscampo,5  feodum  j  militis.4 
Robertus  de  Daiville,  feodum  j  militis.4 
Radulfus  de  Hamerwich,6  j  feodum. 

Radulfus  filius  Gerimund,7  dimidium  feodum. 

Robertus  de  Sancto  Petro,  dimidium  feodum. 

Radulfus  de  Claypole 8  et  Radulfus  de  Buddinc- 
tone,9  feodum  j  militis.4 

Peverel  de  Bellocampo,  dimidium  feodum  de  an¬ 
tiquo  feffamento.10 
De  novo  feffamento 10 : — 

Galfridus  de  Lefremunt  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Cauz,  dimidium  feodum  militis. 

Ricardus  Ursel,  dimidium  feodum  militis. 

Aliz 11  soror  Roberti  de  Cauz,12  dimidium  feodum 
militis. 

Et  super  dominium  suum,  dimidium  feodum  militis. 

Carta  Huberti  filii  Radulfi. 

Isti  sunt  milites  feffati 13  de  baronia  Huberti  filii 
Radulfi  de  veteri  feffamento 10 : — 

Robertus  de  Mainul 14  tenet  feoda  v  militum. 


1  ij  feoda  militum,  L.  N*. 

2  Crievequer,  L.  N. 

3  Chiefrencurt,  L.  N. 

*j  feodum  militis,  L.  N. 

4  Muschamp,  L.  N. 

8  Amewic ;  the  r  is  interlineated 

in  the  MS. 

7  Geremund,  L.  N. 


8  Claipole,  L.  N. 

9  Ranulfus  de  Duddinytone, 
L.  N. 

10  fef amento,  L.  N. 

11  Aeliz,  L.  N. 

12  Calz,  L.  N. 

13  f effata  in  MS. ;  fefati,  L.  N. 

14  Mainvil,  L.  N. 


344 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


N  OTINGHAMSCIRA — COnt. 

A  D.  U66.  Galfridus  Ridel  tenet  feoda  ij  militum  et  dimidii. 

Robertus  filius  Ranulfi,  ij  militum. 

Galfridus  Barre,  ij  militum. 

Graelanus  de  Thany,1  ij  militum. 

Radulfus  filius  Stephani,  ij  militum,  de  feodo 2 
proprio  3  Huberti,  sicut  Hubertus  ipse  4  dicit. 

Reginaldus  de  Anesleia,  ij  militum. 

Serio  de  Pleseleia,  j  militis. 

Ranulfus  de  Wandesleia,  j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Sumeri  et  Robertus  de  Bartone,  dimidii 
[militis]. 

Galfridus  de  Costentin,  ij  milites  et  dimidium  militem 
de  x 5  militibus  dominii  sui  de  novo  feffamento,6  quod 
feodum  cepit  cum  sorore  ipsius  Huberti,  quod  factum 
fuit  coram  Rege. 

Carta  Radulfi  filii  Willelmi.7 

Radulfus  filius  Willelmi  de  Walcherville 7  tenuit  in 
vita  Henrici  Regis  per  servitium  j  8  militis. 

Et  Robertus  de  Chaurchiis  <J  tenet  per  idem  servitium 
hoc  quod  ille  tenuit,  cum  filia  praedicti  Willelmi,  ex¬ 
ceptis  duabus  carucatis 10  terrae,  de  quibus  Rex  11  suum 
placitum  fecit. 

In 12  honore  Willelmi  Peverel  sunt  lx  milites  et  di¬ 
midium  [militis]. 

Willelmus  Bruerre,13  dimidium  j  militis  de  Chestre- 
feld 14  et  aliis  firmis  suis. 


1  Thatii,  L.  N. 

2  recto,  L.  N. 

•>  proprius  in  MS.  ;  ipsius,  L.  N. 

4  ip.se  Hubertus,  L.  N. 

5  decem,  L.  N. 

6  fefarnento,  L.  N. 

•  Willelmi  de  Walicherville, 
L.  N. 

8  unius,  L.  N. 


9  Chaurciis,  L.  N. 

1,1  carrucatis,  L.  N. 

11  dominus  Hex,  L.  N. 

12  [/]»,  L.  N. 

13  Br merre,  L.  N.  This  and  the 
preceding  entry  are  in  a  later  hand 
in  L.  N. 

14  Ceiterfeld,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


345 


Fo.  107  d.  ESSEXA.1  A.D.  1166. 

Carta  Galfridi  Comitis  Essexa*;.1 

Henrico  Regi  Angi  orum,  Duci  Nonnannoruin  et 
Aquitannorum,  Comiti  Andegavorum,  Galfridus  Comes 
Essexae  1  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Sciatis  quod  ista  nomina  subscripta  sunt  nomina 
militum  qui  de  me  tenent  de  veteri  feffamento2: — 

Otvel  de  Boville,  vj  milites  et  dimidium. 

Adam  filius  Fulconis,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Adam  de  Sumeri,  vij  milites ;  unde  Henricus  de 
Cameset  tenet  modo  de  me  in  capite  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Berners,3  iiij  milites. 

Thomas  de  Mondeville,4  iiij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Sutfleta,5  iiij  milites. 

Alexander  Gernet,  iiij  milites. 

Feodum  Radulfi  de  Nuhers,6  iiij  milites. 

Feodum  Willelmi  Makerel,  iij  milites,  quos  Anse- 
mus  Cani  de  Avenie 7  modo  tenet  de  domino  Rege. 

Feodum  Rogeri  de  Gweres,  iiij  milites. 

Sewale  8  de  Oseville,  iiij  milites. 

Johannes  Trenchefoil,9  iiij  milites. 

Ricardus  filius  Osberti,  iiij  milites. 

Elias  de  Hemtone,10  iiij  milites. 

Feodum  Germundi  de  Sancto  Audoeno,  iiij  milites, 
quos  Walterus  de  Cantilupo  et  Robertus  Cheva- 
cheshulle  11  modo  tenent. 

Walterus  de  Munda  ville,  iiij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Ou,  iiij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Norintone,12  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Beseville,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 


1  Esexa  ;  E  sex  ce,  L.  N. 

1  fefamento ,  L.  N. 

3  Bernier  es,  L.  N. 

4  Mandeville,  L.  N. 

5  Sutflea,  L.  N.  ;  the  second  t  is 

interlineated  in  the  MS. 

8  Nuers,  L.  N. 


'  Anselmus  Cumdeaveine,  L.  N. 

8  Sewalus,  L.  N. 

9  Trenchefuile,  L.  N. 

10  Helyas  de  Hintone,  L.  N. 

11  Cheoauchesul,  L.  N. 

13  Ncrhintone,  L.  N. 


346 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCAR10. 


Essexa — cont. 

Lambertus  de  Buelle,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Fenna,  ij  milites. 

Hubert 1  de  Criketot,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Cantilupo,  j  militem. 

Gilbertus  2  de  Botenet,  ij  milites. 

Manasser  de  Gweres,3  j  militem. 

Gilbertus  de  Duntone,4  ij  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Hairun,  dimidium  militem. 

Galfridus  Gernet,  j  militem. 

Feodum  Duranti  Carbonei,  j  militem. 

Durant 5  de  Waledene,  dimidium  militem,  quem 
dominus  Rex  tenet  in  manu  sua. 

Ranulfus  filius  Galfridi.  j  militem. 

Radulfus  Martel,  j  militem. 

Alexander  de  Lafham,  dimidium  militem. 
Reginaldus  de  Taneto,  iijam  6  partem  j  militis. 
Willelmus  filius  Odonis,7  j  militem. 

Feodum  Radulfi  Pinei,  iiij  milites. 

Paganus  de  Hoddesdone,8  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Pincerna  et  Radulfus  de  Hairun,  di¬ 
midium  militem. 

Summa  militum  de  veteri  fefiamento 9 — iiij^xvij 10 
milites  et  tertia  pars  militis. 

Haec  sunt  nomina  militum  de  novo  fefiamento9: — 
Willelmus  filius  Ernaldi,11  j  militem. 

Ranulfus,  frater  ejus,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Charpinville,12  j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Ou,j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Alvredi,  j  militem. 


1  Hubertus,  L.  N. 

2  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

3  Guerres,  L.  N. 

4  Dunm[ou\,  L.  N. 

5  Durantus ,  L.  N. 

6  tertiam,  L.  N. 


'  Widonis,  L.  N. 

8  Hodesdone,  L.  N. 

9  fefamento,  L.  N. 

10  iiij  xx"  et  xvij,  L.  N. 

11  Arnaldi ,  L.  N. 

12  Jarpenville,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


347 


Essex  a — cont. 

Willelmus  de  Rochel,1  iij  partes  militis.  A.D.  1166. 

Ilenricus  filius  Geroldi,  iiij  milites,  quos  dominus 
Rex  tenet  in  manu  sua. 

Rodoenus  2 *  Pincerna  et  Radulfus,  frater  ejus,  vtam 
partem  militis,  quam  dominus  Rex  tenet  in 
manu  sua. 

Gervasius  de  Cornhulle,  xam  3  partem  militis 
Rogerus  Clericus,  vam  partem  militis. 

Hugo  filius  Ulgeri,  v  partem  militis. 

Feodum  Ernesii,  iiijam  partem  militis. 

Rolbertus  de  Bercerellis,4  xijam  partem  militis. 

Rogerus  filius  Ricardi,  j  militem  et  iij  5  partes  mi¬ 
litis. 

Mauricius  de  Tiretei,  tertiam  partem  militis,  quam 
dominus  Rex  tenet  in  manu  sua. 

Ricardus  de  Norehale,  vjam  partem  militis. 

Jordanus  de  Rana,  iiij  6  partes  militis. 

Johannes  filius  Johannis  Marscalli,7  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Gweres,8  j  militem. 

Summa  de  novis  feodatis — et  homines  mei  dicunt  mihi 
quod  debeo  domino  Regi  lx  milites.9 

Carta  W alteri  filii  Roberti. 

Hoc  est  tenementum  Walteri  filii  Roberti  de  feffa- 
mento 10  Regis  : — 

Fo.  108.  Ricardus  filius  Willelmi,  ij  milites. 

Henricus  Lohold,11  ij  milites. 

Michael  Capra,  iiij  milites. 

Alanus  de  Watacra,  ij  milites. 

Mauricius  Yicecomes,  j  militem. 


1  Rochello,  L.  N. 

2  Rodeenus,  L.  N. 

5  r,  L.  N. 

4  Folbertus  de  Bercherellis,  L.  N. 

5  tres,  L.  N. 

6  nijor,  L.  N. 


7  Marescalli,  L.  N. 

8  Guerres,  L.  N. 

9  Sic  in  MS.  There  is  a  new 
paragraph  with  et  homines  in  L.  N. 

10  fefamento,  L.  N. 

11  Loholt,  L.  N. 


348 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Essexa — cont, 

a.d.  1 166.  Robertus  de  Tolleshunte,1  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Hultinges,2  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Mundonia,  dimidium  militem. 
Willelmus  de  Nova  Villa,  iij  milites. 

Galfridus  de  Marcy,3  j  militem. 

Heroertus  4  de  Categrave,  ij  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Sancto  Phileberto,  j  militem. 

Thomas  Sanz  Aver,5  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Wares tolt,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Humfridi,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  filius  Harlewini,6  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Prisenni,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Radulfus  de  Hulmo,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  Capra,  iiij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Fulco  Bainard,  viij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Gilebertus  filius  Reginaldi,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Norgolde,  j  militem. 

Gilbertus  de  Essindone,7  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Comes  Albricus,  iij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Ricardus  filius  Willelmi,  ij  milites. 

Ricardus  de  Badwam,8  v  milites  et  dimidium. 
Willelmus  filius  Reginaldi,  ij  milites. 

Reginaldus  filius  Himonis,  dimidium  militem. 
Osbertus  filius  Willelmi,  unum  militem. 

Odo  de  Kokesftdd,9  j  militem. 

Wodeham,  iij  milites. 

Sic  tenuit  Doete 10  Asinus  et  modo  teneo  ego  in 
meam  detneniam. 

Summa  est  lxiij  milites  et  dimidium  [militis] ;  et  hoc 
mihi  antiqui  homines  mei  intelligere  faciunt,  quod  debeo 
inde  Regi  servitium  de  1  militibus. 


1  Toleshunte ,  L.  N. 

2  Ultinges,  L.  N. 

3  Marci,  L.  N. 

4  Herebertus,  L.  N. 

5  Sanz  Aveir,  L.  N. 


6  Herlewine,  L.  N. 

"  Gilebertus  de  Essendone,  L.  N. 

8  Badewam,  L.  N. 

9  Cokefelde,  L.  N. 

10  Duet  e,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SOACCARIO. 


349 


Essexa — cont. 

Hoc  est  novum  feffamentum  1 : —  a.d.  i  i 66. 

Saerus  de  Quinci,* 2  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Erkebaldus  Paste,  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  filius  Willelmi,  iij  3  partem  militis. 

Odo  de  Obesfbrd,4  iij  3  partem  militis. 

Osbertus5  de  Grammaville,6  iij  3  partem  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Pentelau,  iiij  7  partem  militis. 

Carta  Galfridi  de  Valoniis. 

Galfridus  de  Valoniis  tenet  do  domino  Rege  in 
rapite  Cheringe  8 *  et  Sauecampe  per  servitium  j  militis  ; 
et  istos  habet 9  milites  feffatos,10  scilicet,  de  veteri  feffa- 
mento 11 : — 

Osebertus  filius  Radulfi  de  Wetmere12  tenet  feodum 
j  militis. 

Et  de  novo  feffamento  11  : — 

Walterus  de  Neville,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  13  de  Bosco,  j  militem. 

Et  Burtone  tenet  per  servitium  dimidii  militis. 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Montefichet.14 

De  feodo  Willelmi  de  Montefichet 14  : — 

Philippus  debet  iiij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Glanville,  iiij  milites  de  feodo 15  uxoris 
suae. 

Ricardus  de  Aune,  iiij  milites. 

Robertus  Bacun,  Willelmus  Bacun,  et  Alexander  de 
Kerdentone,  quatuor  16  milites. 


x  fef  amentum,  L.  N. 

2  Quenci,  L.  N. 

3  tertiam,  L.  N. 

4  Obbeford,  L.  N. 

5  Osebertus,  L.  N. 

6  Crammaville,  L.  N. 

I  quarta\_ni\,  L.  N. 

*  Cherringe,  L.  N. 


9  habet  omitted  in  L.  N. 

10  fef  citos,  L.  N. 

11  fef amento,  L.  N. 

12  Waltemere,  L.  N. 

13  Et  Willelmus,  L.  N. 

14  Monte  Fichet,  L.  N. 

15  feodis,  L.  N. 

16  iiij,  L.  N. 


350 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Essexa — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Johannes  de  Wendene,  iij  milites. 

Cristina  de  Wiham,1  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Monte  Fichet,  iij  milites  de  feodo 
Galfridi  de  Westmol.2 

Hubert  3  et  Jordanus,  iij  milites. 

Alvreda,4  eorum  soror,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Lenveise,5  iij  milites. 

Ricardus  Batail,6  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Gerun,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Piro,  j  militem. 

Thomas  de  Ardene,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Champes,  j  militem. 

Johannes  Swefnury,7  j  militem. 

Haec,  j  militem,  sed  tenet  8  in  meo  dominio. 

Robertus  Rivel,  j  militem. 

Godefridus  de  Riunhal  9  et  Robertus  Huscarl,  j  mi¬ 
litem. 

Radulfus  filius  Haselin  et  Ricardus  Westmel,10  j  mi¬ 
litem. 

Lucas  de  Malpas  et  Hunfridus,11  j  militem  in  Esch- 
amlai.12 

Gilbertus  13  filius  Bernardi,  tertiam  partem  militis 
et  duas  partes  ejusdem  militis  teneo  in  manu  mea 
pro  14  defectu  servitii. 

Hamo  et  Thomas  et  Robertus  debent  dimidium 
militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Elise,  j  16  militem. 

Hunfredus,11  j  militem. 


1  Wihamme,  L.  N. 

2  Westmole,  L.  N.  ;  where  a 
new  paragraph  begins  with  De 
feodo. 

8  Hubertus,  L.  N. ;  where  there 
is  no  break  in  the  entry. 

4  Albreda,  L.  N. 

5  le  Enveise,  L.  N. 

6  Bataile,  L.  N. 


7  Sueknuri,  L.  N. 

8  teneo,  L.  N. 

9  Riunhale,  L.  N. 

10  Mrastinel,  L.  N. 

11  Humfridus,  L.  N. 

12  Achalai,  L.  N. 

13  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

14  pro  omitted  in  L.  N. 

15  Helice ,  unum,  L.  N. 


LTBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


351 


Essexa — cont. 

Istos  autem  duos  et  eorum1  feoda  in  custodia  mea  a.d.  iig6. 
habeo  propter  juventutem  eorum  1  : — 

De  Ginga,  j  militem,  quem 1  2  mater  mea  tenet. 

De  Fernham,3quam  Rogerus  Anglicus  tenet,  j  militem, 
quem  Gilbertus  4  Comes  dedit,  in  Gwerra,5  quando 
eram  puer,  patri  suo,  et  iste  est  in  placito  erga  me. 

De  novo  feffamento  6 : — 

Ranulfus  Gernun,  dimidium  militem. 

Edmundus  Camerarius,  vtam  partem  militis. 

Fo.  io8d.  Hsec  est  summa  militum  Willelmi  de  Monte  Ficliet — 
xlviij  milites  et  va  pars  de  antiquo  et  de  7  novo  feffamento. 

Et  hoc  faciunt  homines  mei  mihi  intelligere, — quod  pater 
meus  deserviebat  per  xl  milites. 

Carta  Ricardi  de  Lucy.8 

Hii  sunt  milites  quos  Ricardus  de  Lucy 8  tenet  de 
antiquo  feffamento  6  in  Kent,  et  in  Suthfoleia,9  et  in 
Norfolcia,10  scilicet,  in  Kent  super  dominium  suum 
de  Neutone,11  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Et  Ricardus  Perforde,12  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Et  in  Suthfoleia9  et  in  Norfolcia.10 

Robertus  de  Monteni,  feoda  v  militum,  scilicet,  in  Neu¬ 
tone,11  quse  est  membrum  13  de  Stowa,  feodum  j  militis. 

Et  Walecote,  quse  est  membrum  13  de  Dice,  feodum 
j  militis. 

Et  in  Sprectone,  feodum  j  militis. 

Et  in  Tacolvestone,  feoda  ij  militum. 

Et  in  eadem  villa  de  Tacolvestone,14  Hugo  filius 
Hamel,15  feodum  j  militis. 


1  illorum ,  L.  N. 

2  quam,  L.  N. 

3  Fernehatn,  L.  N. 

4  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

5  guerra,  L.  N. 

6  fef amento,  L.  N. 

7  L.  N.  omits  de. 

8  Luci,  L.  N. 


9  Sutfolcia,  L.  N. 

10  Nortfolcia,  L.  N. 

11  Niwetone,  L.  N. 

12  Perfored,  L.  N. 

13  menbrum  in  MS. 

14  Takolvestone,  L.  N 

15  Hamel[im\,  L.  N. 


352 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Essex  a — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Et  de  hiis  militibus  faciebant  antecessores1  ipsius 
Ricardi  wardam  ad  Dovram. 

Et  de  novo  feffamento,2  in  Devonesciva,3  Ogerus 
Da pife  r,  feodum  j  militis  in  villa  de  Stotebroch,4  quse 
est  de  feodo  5 *  quod  fuit  Willelmi  Sil  vain.0 

Carta  Comitis  Albricl7 

Baronia  Comitis  Albrici 7 : — 

Paganus  de  Enngeford,8  iij  milites. 

Adam  filius  Hugonis,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Gines,9  j  militem. 

Eborardus  de  Sextone,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Burgatin,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Cokefeld,  iij  milites. 

Radulfus  Carbonei,  j  militem  et  dimidium  militem.10 
Rogerus  de  Bello  Campo,  dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  de  Hodenges,11  j  militem. 

Walterus  filius  Ricardi,  dimidium  militem. 

Ernardus  le  Bloy,12  iij  quarterias  militis. 

Ricardus  Rufius,13  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  filius  Ricardi,  dimidium  militem. 
Godefridus  Grosvassal,  j  militem. 

Theobaldus  de  Halam,14  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Alexandri,  dimidium  militem. 
Ranulfus  filius  Willelmi,  dimidium  militem. 
Radulfus  filius  Ad  re,  j  quartam  [partem]  militis. 
Galfridus  de  Ver,  dimidium  militem. 

Alanus  Brito,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Roberti,  dimidium  militem. 


1  ancessores,  L.  N. 

1  fef amento,  L.  N. 

3  Devenescire,  L.  N. 

4  Scotebroc,  L.  N. ;  where  ln 

Villa  begins  a  new  paragraph. 

L-  N- 

0  Silvani,  L.  N. 

'  Alberici,  L.  N. 


8  Emmingeford,  L.  N. 

9  Games,  L.  N. 

10  L.  N.  omits  militem. 

11  Hodeng,  L.  N. 

12  Ernaldus  le  Bloi,  L.  N. 
18  Rufus,  L.  N. 

14  Alharn,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


353 


Essexa — cont. 

Robertus  filius  Hunfridi,1  j  militem.  A.D.  1166 

Robertus  filius  Roberti  filii  Elrici,2  j  militem. 

Galfridus  Arsic,  ij  milites. 

Petrus  de  Chertelinges,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Can  ville, 3  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Lamvalein,4  j  militem. 

Fulco  Dapifer,  unam  quartam  j  militis.5 

Hugo  de  Alberitone,6 *  j  quartam  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Miniae,  viijam  7  partem  militis. 

Carta  Graelandi  de  Thania. 

Venerabili  domino  suo  Henrico  Dei  gratia  illustri 
Regi  Anglorum,  Graeland  de  Thania  8  salutem. 

Sciatis  quod  Ricardus  de  Lega  facit  mihi  servitium 
trium  militum,  et  Otvel 9  de  Boville  j  militem  10  de  veteri 
feffamento, 

Et  super  dominium  meum  iij  milites  et  dimidium. 

De  novo  autem  feffamento  11  nullum  habeo. 

Valete. 

Carta  Rogeri  de  Rames.12 

Die  qua  Rex  Hernicus  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus,  tenuit 
Willelmus  filius  Milonis  feoda  ij  13  militum  de  Rogero 
de  Raimes. 


1  Humfridi,  L.  N. 

2  Aelrici,  L.  N. 

1  Camville,  L.  N. 

4  Lanvalein,  L.  N. 

5  j  quartam  militis,  L.  N. 

6  Abintone,  L.  N. 

"  octavam,  L.  N. 

8  Thani,  L.  N. 

9  Otuelus,  L.  N. 

10  Sic  in  MS. ;  militis,  L.  N. 

u  fef amento,  L.  N. 

12  Carta  Willelmi  filii  Milonis, 
L.  N.  Roger  de  Rames  held  this 
fief  in  1135,  together  with  the  ser¬ 
vices  stated  in  the  body  of  the  re- 

63377. 


turn,  but  William  de  Rames  was  the 
tenant  in  1 166,  as  proved  by  the  Pipe 
Roll.  As  there  was  no  title  in  the 
original  certificate,  the  scribe  of  the 
Black  Book  inserted  in  the  rubric 
the  name  of  the  first  of  the  under¬ 
tenants  on  the  list — William  son  of 
Milo — who  was  however  the  con¬ 
temporary  of  the  former  lord — while 
the  scribe  of  the  Red  Book  chose  to 
give  what  was  perhaps  the  conven¬ 
tional  title  of  the  fief,  but  in  that 
case  Baronia  should  have  been  sub¬ 
stituted  for  Carta. 

15  duorum,  L.  N. 

Z 


354 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Essexa — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Ernaldus  Ruffus,1  feodum  j  militis. 

Rogerus  filius  Edmundi,  feodum  j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Neirford,  feodum  j  militis. 

Hos  praeoccupavit  Comes  Hugo  tempore  Regis  Ste- 
phani. 

Warinus  de  Totintone,  medietatem  j  militis. 
Willelmus  filius  Ricardi,  feodum  j  militis. 

Hii  omnes  sunt  in  comitatu  de  Suthfolcia.2 
Item,  in  comitatu  de  Norfolc3: — 

Galfridus  de  Reinestorpe,4 5  feodum  j  militis. 

In  comitatu  Essexse  : — 

Bedham,6  feodum  dimidii  militis  quam  6  Rex  habet 
in  manu  sua,  et  illud  servitium  computatum  est 
ad  Scaccarium. 

Omnes  isti  feodati  sunt  a  tempore  Regis  Henrici. 

De  novo  feffamento,7  Robertas  de  Reimes8 9  tenet 
iiijtam  9  partem  militis. 

Fo.  109.  Carta  Eudonis  Dapiferi.10 

Isti  sunt  milites  Eudonis  Dapiferi  quos  ego  II[enricus] 
filius  Geroldi  Camerarii,  tene[o]  de  Rege  : — 

Galfridus  de  Amblia,  ij  milites. 

Osbertus  filius  Walcheri,  iij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Radulfus  de  Tuville,11  ij  milites. 

Philippus  de  Leisburne,12  vij  milites. 

Jordanus  et  Willelmus  de  Arkesdene,  iij  milites, 
xiiij a  parte  militis  13  minus. 

Gilbertus 14  de  Helawe,15  dimidium  militem. 


1  Ruffuffus  in  MS. ;  Rufus .  L.  N. 

2  Sutfolcia,  L.  N. 

3  Nortfolcia,  L.  N. 

4  Reinestorp,  L.  N. 

5  Dedham,  L.  N. 

6  quem,  L.  N. 

7  fef amento,  L.  N. 

8  Reines,  L.  N. 

9  quartam,  L.  N. 

10  Another  instance  of  an  incor¬ 


rect  title — perhaps,  like  the  last,  a 
conventional  one.  Henry  Fitz- 
Gerold  is  the  tenant  in  the  Pipe 
Roll. 

11  Tiville,  L.  N. 

12  Leiburne,  L.  N. 

13  quartadecima  parte  j  militis, 
L.  N. 

14  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

13  Helaue,  L.  N, 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


355 


Essexa — cord. 


Alexander  de  Roinges,  dimidium  militem.  A.D.  1166. 

Alexander  de  Limesly,1 2  j  militem. 

Rogerus  filius  Rogeri,  iij  milites. 

Hugo  Pincerna,  vij  milites. 

Ranulfus  de  Haia,  dimidium  militem  et  iijam  3  par¬ 
tem  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Ros,  ij  milites. 

Helias  Sumeri  3  j  militem. 

Stephanas  de  Selva,  dimidium  militem. 

Lowis  le  Briton,4  ij  5  partes  militis. 

Lambert  filius  Godebert,  dimidium  militem. 

Thomas  de  Mondeville,6  ij  milites. 

Thomas  de  Andeville,  vj  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Archesdene,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Petri  filii  Costant[ini],7  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Ricardi,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Berners,8  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Geroldi,j  militem  de  Flectone.9 

Radulfus  Pirot,  iiij  milites. 

Radulfus  filius  Geri,  j  militem  et  vaml°  partem 
militis  ;  sed,  de  hac  va  11  parte  militis  feodavit 
eum  dominus  Ewarinus,12  frater  meus,  de  do¬ 
minio  suo  de  Cameshing,13  et  dedit  servitium  ejus, 
et  servitium  Radulfi  Pirot  cum  Campsinges 14 
uxori  suae  in  dotem.  Sed  Galfridus  de  Ver  habet 
eorum  servitia. 

Isti  subscripti  sunt  milites  quos  dominus  Warinus,12 
frater  meus,  feodavit  de  terra  quam  dominus  Rex  dedit 
ei  praeter  honorem  Eudonis  Dapiferi,  et  quam  ego 
Henricus  filius  Geroldi  Camerarii,  teneo  de  Rege  : — 


1  Limesi ,  L.  N. 

2  tertiam,  L.  N. 

3  de  Sumeri,  L.  N. 

4  Le  Brutun,  L.  N. 

5  duas,  L.  N. 

6  Mandaville,  L.  N. 

'  Constant [/ni],  L.  N. 


8  Bernieres,  L.  N. 

9  Feletone,  L.  N. 

10  vam}  l  ]sr_ 

11  va,  L.  N. 

12  Gwarinus,  L.  N. 

13  Camesinges,  L.  N. 

14  Chamesinges,  L.  N. 

z  2 


356 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SC  ACC  ARIO. 


Essexa — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Alexander  filius  Geroldi,  j  militem  in  Spereholt. 

Hugo  filius  Geroldi,  j  militem  in  eadem  villa. 

Willelmus  de  Hanlege,  j  militem  in  Sevenhamtone. 

Jordanus  de  Wicham,  dimidium  militem  in  eadem 
villa. 

Et  Comes  Galfridus  de  Mondeville  1  dedit  domino 
Gwarino,  fratri  meo,  et  mihi  Sabriteswrthe 2 
pro  lxxiiij  libratis  terree  ;  singulas  xx  libratas 
pro  servitio  j  militis.  Sed  dominus  Gwarinus, 
frater  meus,  dedit  Sancto  Edmundo  pro  anima 
sua  vj  3  libratas  terrae  in  eadem  villa  quietas. 

Carta  Roberti  de  Raimes.4 5 

Hii  sunt  milites  qui  tenuerunt  de  feodo  Roberti  de 
Raimes 4  die  qua  Rex  Henricus  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus, 
videlicet : — 

Anketil 6  de  Mecinges,  feoda  iij  6  militum. 

Warinus,  dimidium  militem  de  Hiham  quae  mihi 
computatur  in  x  militibus  quos  Regi  debeo.7 

Horum  praedictorum  servitium  habeo. 

Willelmus  filius  Jocel[ini],  ij  milites. 

Philippus  Parange,8  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Horum  servitium  deforciant 9  mihi  Willelmus  filius 
Jocel[ini]  et  Philippus.  Simon  de  Cantilupo  detinet 
mihi  Heingeham  quam  tenere  debeo  de  Rege  in  dominio 
meo. 


1  Mandaville,  L.  N. 

2  S  abrict.es  wr  the,  L.  N. 

5  sex,  L.  N. 

4  Raimis,  L.  N. ;  but  the  rubric 
is  again  erroneous  in  both  MSS. 
Robert  de  Reiraes  was  the  tenant  in 
1 135,  but  Richard  de  Reimes  was 
in  possession  in  1166,  as  proved 
by  the  Pipe  Roll. 

5  Anketillus,  L.  N.  There  is  no 

break  in  the  MS.  for  these  two 

entries, 


6  trium,  L.  N. 

7  In  L.  N.  another  entry  is  in¬ 
serted,  and  the  passage  reads  :  — 

Warinus,  dimidium  militem. 
De  Todingtone,  feodum 
dimidii  militis. 

De  Hiham  quae  mihi  com¬ 
putatur,  .  .  . 

8  Parage,  L.  N. 

9  dijforciant,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


357 


Essex  a — cont. 

Robertus  de  Raimes,  feodum  iiij® 1  partis  militis  a.d.  liec. 
de  me[o]  dominio.2 

Willelmus  filius  Edmundi,  feodum  iiij06 1  partis 
militis  de  meo  dominio. 

Hii  duo  R[obertus]  et  W[illelmus]  sunt  noviter  feodati 
de  meo  dominio. 

Mecinges,  Heingeham,  Raines,  debent3  esse  meum 
dominium  ad  perficiendum  x  milites  quos  Regi  debeo; 
sed  Rogerus  de  Hardeburgo  tenet  meliorem  partem  de 
Hecinges4  de  meo  dominio,  nescio  per  quem. 

Carta  Roberti  de  Heliun. 

Baron  ia  Roberti  de  Eliun  5  : — 

Simon  Peehe,  iij  milites. 

Johannes  de  Illee,  iij  milites. 

Rogerus  filius  Mein,  j  militem. 

Simon  de  Felstede,6  j  militem. 

Radulfus  Brito,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Malp[er]tus  et  Alanus,  j  militem. 

De  veteri  feffamento  ; 7  summa — x  milites. 

Et  de  novo  tenemento  : — 

Alanus  filius  Reginaldi,  vam  8  partem  militis.9 
Jocelinus 10  filius  Hugonis,  xvmam  partem  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Roilli,  xxam  11  partem  j  militis. 

Milites  tenentes  de  feodo  Willelmi  de  Elyum12  in 
Essexa  : — 

Idem  Willelmus,  j  militem  in  dominico,  scilicet,  in 
Bumstede  in  Essexa  ;  et 


1  quartae,  L.  N. 

2  L.  1ST.  adds  de  Helium. 

3  debet  in  MS. 

4  Mecinges,  L.  N. 

5  Heliun,  L.  N. ;  the  H  is  a  later 
insertion  in  the  rubric  of  the  MS. 

6  Feltstede,  L.  N. 

7  fef amento,  L.  N. 


8  quintam,  L.  N. 

9  j  militis,  L.  N. 

10  Joce,  L.  N. 

11  vicesimam,  L.  N. 

12  Helyun,  L.  N.,  where  this  fief 
is  entered  on  a  rider  in  a  hand 
contemporary  with  the  rest  of  the 
Carta. 


A.D.  1166. 


Fo.  109  d. 


358  LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

Essexa — cont. 

Comes  Albricus,  j  militem  in  Tillebin  in  Averhulle  1 
in  Suthfolcia.2 

Radulfus  le  Bret  et  Alina,  j  militem  in  Langelega 
et  in  Esse. 

Philippus  de  Brunham3  et  Johannes  Camerarius, 
j  militem  in  Sturemere. 

Warinus  filius  Geroldi,4 *  dimidium  militem  in  Stive- 
tone  et  in  Radewinter. 

Ernulfus  de  Mondeville,6  dimidium  militem  in 
Bumstede. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  quartam  partem  [militis] 
quam  Willelmus  Peclie 6  tenet  in  Bumstede. 

In  Suthfolcia.2 

Henricus  de  Hillega,  iij  milites  in  Hillega. 

In  Norfolcia.7 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  j  militem  8  et  iij 9  partes 
militis ;  de  quibus  Bartholomaeus  de  Caletorpe  10 
tenet  j  militem  in  Caletorpe ; 10  et 

Willelmus  Pecche  iij  partes  militis  in  Kaiket.11 

Carta  Roberti  de  Hastinges.12 

Baronia  Roberti  de  Hastinges. 

Walterus  de  Windr[esores]  tenet  feodum  j  militis  in 
Swinelonde.13 

Radulfus  de  Hastinges  tenet  feodum  j  militis  in 
Wikes  in  Essexa. 


1  et  in  Haverhulle,  L.  N. 

2  Suffokia,  L.  N. 

3  Burnham,  L.  N. 

4  Geroude,  L.  N. 

6  Mandeville,  L.  N. 

6  Pecche,  L.  N. 

7  Norfokia,  L.  N. 

8  j  militem  repeated  in  the  MS. 


9  tres,  L.  N. 

10  Kaletorpe,  L.  N. 

11  Gaiket,  L.  N. 

12  [BJaronia  Roberti  de  Has¬ 
tinges,  L.  N.,  where  there  is  no 
rubric. 

13  Suinetande,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


359 


Essex  a — cont. 

Willelmus  filius  Roberti  tenet  feoda  iiij  militum  in  A.D.  H66. 
Goclemanestone  in  Dorsete 1  et  in  Bromlega  in 
Essexa. 

Et  super  dominium  ipsius  Roberti  in  Eistane  in 
Essexa,  j  militem. 

Et  super  dominium  ipsius  Roberti  in  Bildestone  in 
Suthfolcia,2  j  militem. 

Reginaldus  le  Bret  tenet  feoda  ij  militum  in  Cestre- 
forde  in  Essexa. 

Summa — x  milites. 

Ricardus  filius  Aucheri 3  tenet  in  Langefarh 4  viij  5 6 
libratas  terrae  per  iiijam  6  partem  feodi  j  7  militis. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri  tenet  Clanninges 8  per  feodum 
j  7  militis. 

Leonardus  de  Venoz  9  tenet  xlviij  m[arcatas]  in  Hamme, 
et  xxx  m[arcatas]  in  Exing[es],  et  xxij  m[arcatas]  in 
Westhalle,10  per  j  militem. 

HERTFORDSCIRA. 

Carta  Abbatis  11  Sancti  Albani. 

Benignissimo  domino  suo  Henrico  Dei  gratia  illustri 
Regi  Anglorum,  frater  R[obertus],  humilis  minister 
ecclesiae  Sancti  Albani,  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

De  militibus  quorum  numerum  et  nomina  vobis 
scribi 12  praecipistis,13  haec  vobis  in  veritate  dicimus. 

Sex  milites  feffatos 14  habemus  de  veteri  feffamento  15 
et  a  tempore  Regis  Henrici. 


1  Dorsette,  L.  N. 

2  Sudfolc,  L.  N. 

3  Auchieri,  L.  N. 

4  Lagefare,  L.  N. 

5  octo,  L.  N. 

6  quartam,  L.  N. 

7  unius,  L.  N. 

8  Clavringes,  L.  N. 


9  Venoiz,  L.  N. 

10  Westhale,  L.  N. 

11  Abbatia,  L.  N. 

12  rescribi,  L.  N. 

13  pracipilis,  L.  N. 
ufeJatos,  L.  N. 

15  fef amento,  L.  N. 


360 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Hertfordscira — cont. 

•  De  novo  autem  feffamento,  nullum ; 1  vero  militem 
habemus  qui  plenum  servitium  j  militis  faciat ;  prrnter 
Hugonem  de  Wach,2  qui  de  nobis  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Secundum  feodum,  Ricardus  de  Crokesleya.3 

Tertium.4 

Quartum  feodum,  Alexander  filius  Toroldi,  et  Willel- 
mus  Pinefeld,5  et  Hamo  Vicarius,6  et  Acariust,7  et 
Galfridus  de  Siret. 

Quintum  feodum,  Galfridus  de  Gorham  et  Agnes  de 
Munt  Pincun,  sive  Radulfus  filius  ejus. 

Sextum  feodum,  Raico 8  de  Meridena,  et  Galfridus  de 
Redburne,  et  Willelmus  de  Sisvierne,9  et  Lucas  de 
N  ortone. 

Dominium  autem  nostrum  nullum  vobis  debet. 

Integritatem  regni  vestri  omnipotens  Deus  in  omni 
pace  vobis  longis  temporibus  conservet. 

Carta  Roberti  de  Valoine.10 

De  baronia  Roberti  de  Valoine 10  isti  sunt  milites 
qui  fuerunt  antiquitus  feffati 11  tempore  Henrici  Regis 
avi  domini  nostri  Regis,  scilicet : — 

Ricardus  de  Calum,12  vij  13  milites  et  dimidium. 

Agnes  de  Monte  Pincun  ,14  v  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Dalling,15  ij  milites. 

Philippus  de  Snaringes,  tertiam  partem  j  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Snaringes,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Bosco,  viij  partem  militis. 

Adam  filius  Radulfi,16  dimidium  militem. 


1  De  novo  autem,  fefamento 
nullum.  Nullum  vero  .  .  . ,  L.  N. 

2  Hugonem  Wach,  L.  N. 

3  Crokeslei,  L.  N. 

4  Sic  in  MSS. 

6  de  Pinefeld ,  L.  N. 

6  Vitrarius,  L.  N. 

7  Acharius,  L.  N. 

*  Razco,  L.  N. 


9  Siseverne,  L.  N. 

10  Valoniis,  L.  N. 

11  fefati,  L.  N. 

12  Caine,  L.  N. 

13  vj,  L.  N. 

14  Montepinceone ,  L.  N. 

15  Dallinges,  L.  N. 

18  Alvredi,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


361 


Hertfordscira — cont. 

Henricus  frater  Abbatis  de  Sancto  Eadmundo,1 
dimidium  militem. 

Mathaeus  de  Franca  Terra,  ij  2  milites. 

Robertus  filius  Jocelin,  j  militem. 

Hunfridus  de  Beringham,3  j  militem. 

Ranulfu3  de  Haia,  j  4  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Lactone,5 6  j  militem  et  iiijtam  6  partem 
militis.7 

Ambrosius,  j  militem  et  viijam  partem  militis.7 
Wimerus  le  Fae,  dimidium  militem. 

Godefridus  de  Tiwinge,  dimidium  militem. 

Brien8  de  Tywinge,9  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Mondaville,10  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Haia,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Boxa,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Radulfi,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Ouville,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Insula,  dimidium  militem. 

Monachi  Tefordiae,11  dimidium  militem. 

Osbertus  de  Taidone,12  dimidium  militem. 

Summa  militum  antiquitus  feffatorum  13  tempore  Hen- 
rici  Regis  avi  domini  Regis — xxx  milites  et  tertia  pars 
j  14  militis. 

Et  de  hiis  15  praedictis  Galfridus  de  Yaloine  16  tenet  j  4 
militem  et  viijam  17  partem  militis,  de  dominicis  terris  de 
eadem  baronia.18 

Isti  subscripti  f effati 19  sunt  post  tempus  Henrici  Regis 


1  Edmundo,  L.  N. 

2  duos,  L.  N. 

3  Hunfridus  de  Bernigeham,  L.N. 

4  unum,  L.  N. 

5  Lattone,  L.  N. 

6  quartam,  L.  N. 

7  j  militis,  L.  N. 

8  Brien,  L.  N. 

9  Tiwinge,  L.  N. 

10  Mandaville,  L.  N. 


11  Theofordice,  L.  N. 

12  Thaidene,  L.  N. 

13  fefatorum,  L.  N. 

14  unius ,  L.  N. 

15  istis,  L.  N. 

16  Valoniis,  L.  N. 

17  octavam,  L.  N. 

18  De  dominicis — baronia  begins 
a  fresh  entry  in  L.  N. 

19 feofati ,  L.  N. 


362 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Hertfordscira — cont. 

avi  domini  Regis  per  Petrum  de  Yaloines,  fratrem  Ro- 
berti  primogeniti,  scilicet 

Adam  filius  Alvredi,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Bosco,  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Neville,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Valoine,1  dimidium  militem. 

Gundrea,  quae  fuit  uxor  Petri  de  Yaloniis,  j  militem, 
in  vita  sua. 

Summa  novorum  feffatorum  2 — iiij  milites  et  dimidium ; 
et  de  istis  novis  Galfridus  de  Yaloniis  tenet  ij  3  milites 
et  dimidium. 


Carta  Albani  de  Hayiiun.4 

Domino  suo  excellentissimo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum, 
Albanus  de  Hairun  salutem.5 

Yestrae  notifico  excellentiae 6  quod  ego  in  Hertfort- 
scira  feodum  j  militis  de  veteri  feffamento 7  de  vobis 
principaliter  teneo,  et  quod  de  novo  feffamento 7  nichil 
habeo,  nec  militem  feffatum  8  aliquem  habeo.9 

Carta  Matelei  de  Gerardi  Yilla. 

Mathaeus  de  Gerardi  Yilla  tenet  in  capite  de  domino 
Rege  feodum  j  militis  de  veteri  feffamento,7  et  nullum 
habet  militem  feffatum,10  nec  habet  aliquid  de  novo 
feffamento.7 


Carta  Willelmi  filii  Roberti. 

Carissimo  domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Willel¬ 
mus  filius  Robert  salutem. 


1  Valoniis,  L.  N. 

2  fefatorum,  L.  N. 

3  duos,  L.  N. 

4  Hairun,  L.  N. 

5  L.  N.  omits  salutem. 


6  Vestra;  excellent  ice  notifico,  L.  N. 

7  fef  amento,  L.  N. 

3  feofatum,  L.  N. 

8  habeo.  Valete,  L.  N. 

10 fefatum,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


363 


Hertfordscira — cont. 

Sciatis  quod  de  vobis  teneo  feodum,  j  militem  pauperi-  A.D.  1166. 
mum  ; 1  nec  alium  in  eo  feodavi  quia  vix  michi  sufficit ; 
et  sic  tenuit  pater  meus.  Yalete. 

Carta  Honoris  de  Berchamstede.2 

Honor  de  Berchamstede 3  debet  xxij  milites  et  di¬ 
midium,  et  tertiam  partem  militis,  et  xvij  4  partem  ;  et 
quando  capitur  marca  de  scuto,  tunc  dat  viij  solidos  et 
x  denarios. 


CANTEBRIGGESCIRA.5 
Carta  Nigelli  Elyensis  Episcopi.6 

Venerabili  domino  suo  Henrico  Hei  gratia  illustri 
Regi  Anglorum,  Nigellus  Elyensis  Episcopus  salutem. 

Ex  mandato  vestro  diligenter  inquiri  fecimus  servitia 
militum  nostrorum,  et  eorum  nomina  et  numerum,  tam 
de  veteri  quam  de  novo  feffamento,7  vobis  subscripta 
transmittimus. 

In  Cantebriggesira  sunt  de  veteri  feffamento7: — 

Hamo  Peccatum,  iij  milites  de  feodo  Rogeri  Pe- 
verel. 

Hugo  de  Hovra,  iij  milites  de  eodem  feodo. 

Everardus  de  Ruddeltone,8  ij  milites. 

Henricus  Picot,  j  militem. 

Fo.  i  io  d.  Lucas  de  Bray,9  j  militem. 

Stephanus  et  Henricus  de  Scalariis,  iij  milites. 


1  pauperrimum,  L.  N. 

‘  This  return  is  a  later  addition 
in  L.  N.,  which  has  no  rubric. 

3  Berchamnstede ,  L.  N. 

4  xvijmam,  L.  N. 

5  This  heading  is  once  written 

Cantebriyescira  in  the  MS. 


6  Carta  domini  Elyensis,  L.  N. 

7  J'ef amento,  L.  N. 

8  Ebrardus  de  Middeltone, 


L.  N. 


9  Brai,  L.  N. 


364 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Cantebriggescira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Eustachius  de  Maneri  o,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  Foliot,  j  militem. 

Willelmns  Muschet,  j  militem. 

Hunfridus  1 2  filius  Galfridi,  j  militem. 

Toroldus  de  Hangetone,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Dispensator,  iiijtam 2  partem  militis.3 
Et  de  novo  feffamento  4  de  dominio  nostro  : — 

Paganus  de  Hemingeford,5  j  militem. 

Petrus  Pincerna,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Ricardi,  j  militem. 

Adam  filius  Adse,  dimidium  militem. 

De  purprestura  marisci,  quod  nunquam  antea  lucra¬ 
tum  fuit : — 

Reginaldus  de  Niuetone,6  dimidium  militem. 
Walterus  de  Pampewrtlie,  j  militem. 

Jordanus  de  Sanford,7  j  militem. 

Et  in  Norfolcia  8  de  veteri  feffamento  4 : — 

Willelmus  de  Bekeswelle,  dimidium  militem. 
Stephanus  de  Marisco,  dimidium  militem. 

Henri cus  de  Ria,  iij  milites. 

Filius  Huberti  de  Muntchensi,9  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Generam,  j  militem ;  sed  Rex 
habet  eum. 

Et  de  novo  feffamento  4 : — 

Radulfus  Dapifer,  j  militem. 

Comes  Hugo,  vi  milites ;  de  quibus  nunquam  fecit 
servitium. 

In  Suthfolcia 10  de  veteri  feffamento  4  : — 

Robertus  de  Cokefeld,  j  militem. 

Fulco  Trussel,  j  militem. 

Hamo  Peccatum,  iij  milites. 


1  Humfridus ,  L.  N. 

2  quartam,  L.  N. 

3  j  militis,  L.  N. 

A  fef amento,  L.  N. 

5  Hemingeford  e,  L.  N. 


6  Niivetoiie,  L.  N. 

'  Samforde,  L.  N. 

8  Nartfolcia ,  L.  N. 

9  M unchanesi,  L.  N 

10  Sutfolcia,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


3(15 


Cantebriggescira  —cont. 

Galfridus  de  Drenthestone,1  j  militem.  A.D.  1 1 66. 

Alarius  filius  Frodse,  j  militem. 

Lucas  de  Debeham  ij  milites  ;  set  Rex  habet  j. 

Willelmus  de  Norwico,2  j  militem. 

Radulfus  Pirot,  ij  milites. 

Ricardus  filius  Osberti,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Hugonis,  ij  milites. 

Herveius  3  de  Glan ville,  j  militem. 

Gilbertus  4  filius  F rod  se,  j  militem. 

De  feodo  Rolandi  filii  Ysaac,  dimidium  militem. 

Comes  de  Clare,5  ij  milites. 

Et  de  novo  feffamento6  : — 

Radulfus  Dapifer,  ij  milites,  cum  cremento  suo  in 
Cantebrigsira. 

In  Hertfordscii  a  de  veteri  feffamento0: — 

Roger us  de  Valoines,7  dimidium  militem. 

Alb[ertus]  8  Anglicus,  j  militem. 

Simon  filius  Adse,  j  militem. 

In  Essexa  de  veteri  feffamento.0 
Radulfus  de  Berneris,9  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  Peregrinus,  j  militem. 

Reginaldus  de  Franbrigge,10  j  militem. 

Lucas  de  Terunges,11  j  militem ;  sed  Rex  habet 
eum. 

Simon  de  Reinges,12  ij  milites  ;  sed  Comes  Albri- 
cus  habet  servitium  ejus  de  novo  [feffa¬ 
mento]. 

Lucas  de  Berkesheved  et  Ranulfus  de  Haia,  j  mili¬ 
tem  de  feodo  Ricardi  de  Salcoville.13 


1  Dretichestojie,  L.  N. 

2  Norewico,  L.  N. 

3  Hereveius,  L.  N. 

4  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

5  Clara,  L.  U 

*  fef amento,  L.  N. 

7  Vuloniis,  L.  N. 


8  Asbertus,  L.  N. 

9  Bernier  es,  L.  N. 

10  Fanbrigge,  L.  N. 

11  Terlinyes,  L.  N. 

42  Roinyes,  L.  N. 

13  de  feodo  begins  a  new  para 
graph  in  L.  N. 


36G 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SC  ACC  ARIO. 


Cantebriggescira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Willelmus  de  Hanlega,  j  militem  ;  de  eodem  feodo, 
sed  est  in  Suthfolcia.1 
Et  de  novo  feffamento  2 : — 

Comes  Albricus,  ij  3  milites. 

De  liiis  vero  certi  sumus  et  si  amplius  inquirere  poteri¬ 
mus,  libenter  vobis  significabimus.4 

Carta  Hamonis  Peccati.5 6 

Baronia  quam  ego  Hamo  Peccatum  teneo  de  domino 
Rege  in  capite  in  Suthfolcia  1  de  veteri  feffamento  2 : — 
Vivien  de  Scorneie/’  j  militem. 

Fulco7  de  Tistedene,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  filius  Edmundi,  j  militem. 

Adam  Palwelle,8  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Gweres,9  j  militem. 

Gala 10  de  Curcun,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Robertus  filius  Willelmi,  iiijtam  11  partem  militis. 
Willelmus  filius  Walteri,  iiijtam  11  partem  militis.12 
Osbertus  de  Hadfeld,13  j  militem. 

Marcelay,14  quam  Basilia  soror  mea  tenet,  j  mi¬ 
litem. 

Graneforde,15  j  militem  ;  quae  est  in  manu  mea  pro 
defectu  haeredis ;  et  ij  milites  remanent  super 
dominium  meum. 

Et  in  Cantebrigscira  de  honore  Willelmi  Peverel 
de  haereditate  uxoris  meae  de  veteri  feffamento.2 
Eustachius  de  Bans,  iij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Gramdene,16  j  militem. 


1  Sutfolcia ,  L.  N. 

-  fef amento,  L.  N. 

3  duos,  L.  N. 

4  Valete  is  added  in  L.  N. 

5  Peccatum,  L.  N. 

6  Vivienus  de  Scoreneie,  L.  N. 

7  Fulcwi,  L.  N. 

8  Paluel,  L.  N. 


9  Gueres,  L.  N. 

10  Sic  in  MS. 

11  quartam,  L.  N. 
n  j  militis,  L.  N. 

13  Hasfeld,  L.  N. 

14  Marcelai,  L.  N. 

15  Craneforde,  L.  N. 

16  Crandene,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


367 


Cantebriggescira — cont, 

Ricardus  de  Stantone,  j  militem.  A.D.  1 1 66. 

Et  praeterea  Willelmus  Paverel  dedit 1  in  franco 
maritagio  quiete  cum  sorore  sua  feoda  ij  militum, 
unde  Adam  de  Periers  tenet  de  me  iij  partes 
j  militis.  Et  remanentium1  2  dedi  Baldewino  de 
Rovecestria  cum  filia  mea  in  maritagio 3  quod 
habui  in  meo  dominio. 

Et  in  Salopescira. 

Radulfus  de  Tirene,  xijmam  partem  j  militis. 

Et  de  novo  feflfamento  4  : — 

Willelmus  de  Hetlega,  tertiam  partem  j  militis  in 
Arcalun  et  in  Oantebrigescira.5 

Eborardus  de  Bece,6  dimidium  militem  in  Mor- 
done,7  quod  fuit  de  dominio. 

Fo.  in.  Et  in  Suthfolcia,8  Galo  de  Curcun,  viijam  partem 

j  militis  in  Chesthalle.9 

Carta  Stephani  de  Scalariis.10 

Domino  suo  Regi 11  Anglorum,  S[tephanus]  de  Sca¬ 
lers  10  salutem  et  fidelia  servitia. 

Willelmus  filius  Rogeri  tenet  de  me  feoda  v  mili¬ 
tum  et  vjtam  partem  militis.12 

Willelmus  filius  Fulconis,  feodum  j  militis  et  tertiam 
partem  j  militis. 

Galfridus  filius  Swein,13  feodum  j  militis  et  iiijam  14 
partem  militis. 

Robertus  le  Guiez,15  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Walterus  Martin,  dimidium  militem. 


1  Peverel  dedit  mihi,  L.  N. 

3  remanantium  in  MS. ;  rema- 
nantum,  L.  N. 

3  in  maritagium,  L.  N. 

4  fefamento,  L.  N. 

5  Cantebrigscira,  L.  N. 

6  Beche,  L.  N. 

7  Moredune ,  L.  N. 


8  Sutfolcia,  L.  N. 

9  Chehbehale,  L.  N. 

10  Scaliers,  L.  N. 

11  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  L.N. 

12  j  militis,  L.  N. 

13  Sweini,  L.  N. 

14  quartam,  L.  N. 

16  Guiz,  L.  N. 


368 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Cantebrigg  escira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Theobaldus  de  Scalers,1 2 3  dimidium  militem  et  iiijam  2 
partem  militis. 

Albricus  Comes,  vjani  3  partem  militis. 

Robertus  Giffard,  vjtam3  pa rtem  militis.4 

Bernardus  Bos,  vjtam  3  partem  militis.4 

Haec  est  summa — x  milites  habeo  feffatos 5  et  ser- 
vitium  v  militum  remanet  super  dominium  meum  ;  et 
non  habeo  aliquem  militem  feodatum  noviter.6 

Carta  Hugonis  de  Dovra. 

Domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Duci  Nor- 
mannorum,7  Comiti  Andegavorum,  Hugo  de  Dovra 
salutem  et  fidelia  servitia. 

Haec  sunt  nomina  militum  meorum  de  veteri  feffa- 
mento8  in  Cantebrigscira 9  de  haereditate  uxoris  meae, 
sicut  mihi  per  breve  vestrum  mandastis  :  — 

Alanus  filius  Gilberti 10  de  Becha,  ij  milites  ;  ita  est 
juvenis  et  sine  discretione,  quod  nondum  potest 
facere  homagium.11  Et  sciatis  quod  antecessor 
noster  dedit  Alano  dapifero,  avo  suo 12  istius 
Alani  praedicti,13  dimidium  militem,  scilicet,  feo¬ 
dum  Roberti  filii  Widonis  de  Cumbretone  in  aug¬ 
mentum  post  mortem  Henrici  Regis,  in  Guerra,14 
ut  melius  posset  facere  servitium  ij  militum. 

Eustacbius  Picot,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Hokintone  et  Eborardus  de  Becha, 
j  militem. 

Et  praedictus  Eborardus  vj^111  partem  militis. 


1  Scatters,  L.  N. 

2  quartam,  L.  N. 

3  i j,  L.  N. 

4  militis  omitted  in  L.  N. 

6  feodatos,  L.  N. 

6  noviter  feodatum,  L.  N. 

7  Nor  mannorum  et  Aquitanno- 

rum,  L.  N. 


*  fef amento,  L.  N. 

9  Cantebriggescira,  L.  N. 

10  Gileberti,  L.  N. 

11  horninium,  L.  N. 

12  Rectius  dapifero  suo,  avo  as  in 
L.  N. 

1S  Sic  in  MS. 

14  Gwerra,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


369 


Cantebriggescira — cont. 

Ricardus  filius  Ysillise  1  et  Sefridus,  dimidium  mi-  A.D.  1166. 
litem. 

Radulfus  de  Tirna,  xij  partem  militis 2  iu  Salopescira. 

De  novo  feffamento3: — 

Alanus  filius  Gilberti 4 5  de  Becha,  dimidium  mili¬ 
tem  in  Mordona,  post  mortem  Henrici  Regis,  in 
Gwerra. 

Willelmus  de  Helleia,  iiijam  partem  militis  in 
Salopescira  post  mortem  Henrici  Regis. 

Yalete. 

Carta  Hugonis  de  Scalariis. 

Domino  suo  Regi  Anglorum,  Hugo  de  Scalers6 7  salu¬ 
tem  [et]  fidele  servitium. 

De  vobis  teneo  feoda  xv  militum.  De  hiis  xv,  viij 
feodati  sunt 6  et  iija  7  pars  militis  de 8  antiquo,  scili¬ 
cet  : — 

Theobaldus  de  Scalariis,  [tenet]  feodum  j  militis 
et  vjam  partem  militis.9 

Theobaldus  filius  Fulconis,  feoda  iiij  militum  tenet 
de  me. 

Alanus  de  Fulcheriis,10 *  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Guiz,  feodum  dimidii  militis  et  xijam  11 
]) artem  j  militis. 

Lucas  de  Mordone,12  feodum  iij  partis  j  militis.13 

Henricus  Caperun,  tertiam  partem  militis.14 

Hunfridus  de  Cornee,  xijam  partem  j  militis.16 


1  Ysilice,  L.  N. 

3  L.  N.  omits  militis. 

3  fef 'amento,  L.  N. 

4  Gileberti,  L.  N. 

5  Scalariis,  L.  N. 

6  octo  sunt  feodati,  L.  N. 

7  tertia,  L.  N. 

8  ex,  L.  N. 

9  feodum  unius  militis  et.  sextam 

partem  militis,  L.  N. ;  where  this 

63377 


entry  follows  the  fee  of  Theobaldus 
filius  Fulconis. 

10  Fulgeriis,  L.  N. 

11  xij,  L.  N. 

12  Mordune,  L.  N. 

13  iij*  partis  militis,  L.  N. 

14  L.  N.  adds  et  duodecimam 
partem  militis. 

15  Humfridus  de  Corenei  duode¬ 
cimam  partem  militis,  L.  N. 

A  A 


370 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Cantebriggescira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Galfridus  filius  Hugonis,  iiijtam  1  partem  militis. 

Godefrei  de  Brikeholt1  2  iiijam  partem  militis. 

Galfridus  filius  Swein,3  xij  partem  militis. 

Radulfus  filius  Ricardi,  xij  partem  militis. 

Willelmus  Brito,  xij  partem  4 5  militis. 

Et  facio  de  dominio  meo  vij  milites  et  iij  6  partes 
militis.  Ita  tenuit  pater  ineus  de  Henrico  rege  avo 
vestro.6  Sed  nullum  7  habeo  noviter  feodatum. 

Carta  Albrici  Picot. 

Domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Albricus  8  Picot 
salutem  et  se  ipsum  totum. 

Majestati  vestrae  notum  facio  quod  Henricus,  pater 
meus,  tempore  Henrici  regis  avi  vestri  feodatus  erat  per 
servitium  j  9  militis,  et  omni  vita  sua  ita  tenuit  quod 
nullum  feodavit,  et10  ego  post  ipsum.  TJnde 11  valeat 
dominus  meus. 


HUNTENDONSCIRA. 

Carta  Abbatis  Ramesey^:.12 

Haec  est  inquisitio  quam  fecit  Abbas  Rameseyae 13  de 
tenementis  militum  suorum  ex  mandato  domini  Regis. 
Simon  de  Bello  14  tenet  iij  hidas  et  dimidiam. 

Hugo  de  Bello  Campo  tenet  v  hidas. 

Eu[er]winus  de  Graveshurst 16  tenet  iij  hidas  et  j  vir¬ 
gatam  terrae. 


1  quartam,  L.  N. 

2  Biricheholt,  L.  N. 

3  Swani,  L.  N. 

Spartes,  L.  N. 

5  duas,  L.  N. 

6  de  avo  vestro  Rege  Henrico, 
L.  N. 

7  Nullum,  L.  N. 

8  Albericus,  L.  N. 

9  unius,  L.  N. 


10  nec,  L  N. 

11  Bene,  L.  N. 

12  Rameseice,  L.  N. 

13  Willelmus  Abbas  Rameseice, 
L.  N. 

14  Sic  in  MSS.,  but  should  pro¬ 
bably  be  Bello  Campo.  See  Dugdale 
I.  223. 

15  Gravenhurst,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


371 


Huntendonscira — cont. 

Silvester  de  Holewelle,  xij  1  hidas.  A.D.  1166. 

Wido  de  Stowe,  iij 1  2  hidas  et  dimidiam. 

Alardus  de  Geddinges,  v  hidas. 

Comes  Albricus,  v  hidas. 

Stephanus  de  Scalers,3  j  hidam  et  dimidiam. 

Oliverus  Monachus,4  vj  hidas  et  dimidiam. 

Walterus  filius  Jocelini  de  Civocleia,6  ij  hidas  et  j  vir¬ 
gatam. 

Robertus  de  Stiveleia,5  j  hidam. 

Radulfus  Maindehurst,  ij  hidas  et  dimidiam  et  j  vir¬ 
gatam. 

6  Robertus  de  Creuewelle,7  iiij  hidas. 

Alexander  filius  Philippi,  j  hidam. 

Ricardus  Foliot,8  j  hidam. 

Fnlco  de  Lisuris,  j  hidam  et  j  virgatam. 

Nigellus  de  Luvetot,  hidam  et  dimidiam.9 

Radulfus  filius  Bernardi,  dimidiam  hidam. 

Eustachius  de  Elintone,10  dimidiam  hidam. 

Henricus  de  Elintone,11  dimidiam  hidam. 

Robertus  de  Laushulle,  j  hidam. 

Reginaldus  Monachus,  iij  hidas  tenet.12 

Homines  faciunt  iiij  milites  in  communi  ad  servitium 
domini  Regis.  Ita  quod  tota  terra  Abbatiae  communicata 
est  cum  eis  per  hidas  ad  praedictum  servitium  facien¬ 
dum  ;  et  hoc  eodem  modo  fecerunt  tempore  ejusdem 
Regis  13  Henrici.  Post  mortem  autem  ejusdem  14  Regis 
Henrici  nullus  miles  in  tota  Abbatia  de  novo  feodatus 
est.  Quidam  autem 15  de  dominio  Ecclesiae  post  mortem 


1  duodecim,  L.  N. 

*  iiij,  L.  N. 

8  Eschaliers,  L.  N. 

4  Monacu8,  L.  N. 

6  Stiueclea,  L.  N. 

6  L.  N.  has  the  entry  before 

Robertus  de  Creuewelle,  Henricus 

de  Wicha  iij  hidas,  which  is  omitted 

in  the  MS. 


7  Criewelle,  L.  N. 

8  Foilet,  L.  N. 

9  Sic  in  MSS. 

10  Helintone,  L.  N. 

11  Helingtone,  L.  N. 

12  tenet  iij  hidas,  L.  N. 

13  Regis ,  L.  N. 

14  L.  N.  omits  ejusdem. 

15  tamen,  L.  N. 


A  A  2 


372 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Huntendonscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Regis  Henrici  aliquid  tenent.  Et  tota  terra  Abbatiae 
ita  communicata  1  cum  militibus  praedictis,  quod  omnes 
milites  praedicti  communicati  sunt  cum  dominio  Abbatiae 
in  omnibus  quae  ad  necessitatem  Ecclesiae  pertinent. 

Hugo  de  Dovra 2  respondit  de  v  militibus  de  honore 
de  Brunne.3 

Robertus  de  Lisuris  respondit  de  j  milite. 

Warnerus  Engaine  respondit  de  dimidio  milite. 

In  feodo  quod  fuit  Comitis  Conani  xvij  milites, 
xxvij  parte  minus. 

Carta  Nigelli  de  Levetot.4 5 

Haec  est  inscriptio  militum  qui  tenent  de  baronia 
Nigelli  de  Levetot4  in  Huntindonscira.6 7 

Canonici  Huntedoniae  tenent  feodum  j  militis  et 
dimidii,  et  ultra  x  solidatas  terrae,  unde  perfurnitur  ser¬ 
vitium  Willelmi  filii  Olifardi,  qui  tenet  feodum  j  militis, 
x  solidatis  terrae  minus. 

Walterus  de  Beaumes,6  feodum  j  militis  et  iijam  7 
partem  j  militis,  et  v  solidatas  terrae  unde  perfurnitur 
servitium  Willelmi  de  Cloptone,  qui  tenet  feodum  j  mi¬ 
litis,  v  solidatis  8  terrae  minus. 

Reginaldus  Monachus,9  ij  10  partes  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Kantilupo,11  iiij am  12  partem  militis ; 
Willelmus  13  de  Cestre  tone  tantundem. 

Walterus  de  Wasingleie,14  ij  10  partes  j  15  militis. 


1  communicata  est,  L.  X. 

2  Dovera,  L.  N. ;  where  this  and 
the  three  following  entries  are  a 
later  addition. 

3  Altered  in  the  MS. 

4  Luvetot,  L.  N 

5  Huntedonescire,  L.  N. 

6  Bealnies,  L.  N. 

7  tertiam.,  L.  N. 


8  solidatas,  L.  N. 

9  Monacus,  L.  N. 

10  duas,  L.  N. 

11  Cantilupo,  L.  N 

12  quartam,  L.  N. 

13  et  Willelmus,  L.  N. 

14  Radulfus  de  Wasingelei,  L.  N. 

15  unius,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


373 

Huntendonscira — cont. 

Willelmus  de  Percy,1  iij  2  partem  militis.3 
Willelmus  Cardun,  feodum  j  militis. 

Henricus  de  Longeville,4  feodum  j  militis. 

Et  ipse  Nigellus  de  Luvetot  facit  servitium  j  militis 
de  dominio  suo. 

De  honore  JRogeri  de  Boisly,5  de  feodo  de  Blia, 
Robertus  de  J orz  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Radulfus  filius  Willelmi,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 
Robertus  filius  Ernulfi,  feodum  j  militis.6 
Galfridus  de  Estantone,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 
Willelmus  Picot,  ij  7  partes  unius  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Cliftone,  iij  2  partem  militis.3 
Et  ipse  Nigellus  de  Luvetot,  feodum  j  militis  de 
dominio  suo. 

Omnium  horum  antecessores  mei 8  feodati  erant  ante 
obitum  Henrici  Regis  avi  vestii 9  nec  10  aliquem  habeo 
feodatum  post  mortem  Henrici  Regis. 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Say. 

Isti  sunt  milites  Willelmi  de  Say11  de  veteri  feffa- 
mento 12 : — 

Hugo  de  Bellocampo,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Swinesheved,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Ricardi  de  Portenhale  13  et  Canonici 
de  Huntindone,  dimidium  militem. 

Ranulfus  Percesuil,  xx  14  partem  militis  et  ij  15  de¬ 
narios  de  marca  de  milite. 


1  Perci ,  L.  N. 

*  tertiam ,  L.  N. 

3  j  militis,  L.  N. 

4  Longaville,  L.  N. 

*  Builli,  L.  N. 

*  This  and  the  following  entry 
are  transposed  in  L.  N. 

7  duas,  L.  N. 

8  met  omitted  in  L.  N. 

9  Regis,  L.  N 


10  neque,  L.  N. 

11  Sai,  L.  N.  There  is  no  rubric 
in  L.  N.,  although  space  has  been 
left  for  it. 

12  fej 'amento,  L.  N. 

13  Radulfus  filius  Ricardi  et 
Ricardus  de  Pertenhale,  L.  N. 

14  vicesimam,  L.  N. 

15  duos,  L.  N. 


374 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Huntendonscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  De  noviter  feodatis  de  dominio  meo  : — 

Willelmus  de  Say,1  avunculus  meus,  j  militem  de 
Witehurst. 

Willelmus  Froislun  2  et  Jordanus  de  Holesforde,3 
dimidium  militem  in  Brintone. 

Ricardus  Anglicus,4 5  dimidium  militem  in  Wir- 

•  ham. 

Willelmus  filius,  quintam  partem  militis  in  Kene- 
boltone. 

Radulfus  filius  Ricardi,  vam  5  partem  militis  in 
eadem  villa,  et  iiij  denarios  ad  marcam  de  milite. 

Simon  Pescesoil,6  dimidium  militem. 


Fo.  na.  LINCOLNSCIRA. 

Carta  Roberti  Lincolniensis  Episcopi.7 

Amantissimo  domino  suo,  Henrico  Dei  gratia  illustri 
Regi  Anglorum,  Duci  Norinannorum  et  Aquitannorum, 
Comiti  Andegavorum,  Robertus  Lincolniensis  Episcopus 
salutem  et  devotum  obsequium. 

Sciat,  domine,  excellentia  vestra,8  subscriptos  milites 
[de]  feodo  Beatae  Mariae  Lincolniae  feffatos 9  esse ;  et 
quantum  unusquisque  eorum  debeat,  vobis  scripto  meo 
significo : — 

Walterus  de  Admerdone  debet  v  milites. 

Gilbertus  10  de  Nova  villa,  v  milites. 

Heli  de  Ringedone,11  v  milites. 

Filius  Willelmi  de  Boisent,12  vj  milites. 


1  Sai,  L.  N. 

7  Frieslun,  L.  N. 

3  Holeford,  L.  N. 

4  Le  Engleis,  L.  N. 

5  v,  L.  N. 

e  Percesuil,  L.  N.  The  origi¬ 

nal  entry  in  the  MS.  has  been 

altered. 


I  L.  N.  adds  the  words  de  mili¬ 
tibus  suis  fefatis. 

8  vestra  excellentia,  L.  N. 
9fefatos,  L.  N. 

10  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

II  Helias  de  Rinegedone,  L.  N. 

13  Buissent,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


375 


Lincolnscira — cont. 

Hugo  Selvein,  iiij  milites.  A.D.  1 1 66. 

Osbertus  Selvein,  j  militem. 

Corebet,1  ij  milites. 

Woburnus,  iiij  milites. 

Robertus  filius  Ricardi,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Philippus  de  Kima,  ij  milites. 

Rogerus  Malherbe,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Ernulfi,2  ij  milites. 

Odo  de  Sancta  Cruce,  ij  milites. 

Cosleinus  de  Evermund,3  dimidium  militem. 

Johannes  de  Stowa,  j  militem. 

Petrus  de  Cotes,  ij  milites. 

Columbanus,  ij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Cundi,  viij  milites. 

Nigellus  de  Fleuburgo,4 5  iij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Crumwelle,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Ranulti,  dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  de  Boisent,6  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Dina,6  j  militem. 

Beatriz  de  Evdone,7  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Canville,8  j  militem. 

Robertus  Monachus,9  j  militem. 

Adelinus  de  Cliftona,  ij  milites. 

Herbertus 10  Quatremains,  j  militem. 

Ernald  de  Crandun  ville,11  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  de  Oyli,12  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Stokes,  iij  milites. 

Mathseus  de  Chaucumbes,13  vj  milites. 

Robertus  Chevachefoille,14  iij  milites. 


1  Correbet,  L.  N. 

2  Ernisii,  L.  N. 

1  Gosleinus  de  Euermunt,  L.  N. 

4  Fleburgo ,  L.  N. 

5  Buissent ,  L. 

6  Diva,  L.  N. 

T  Eaved^one"],  L.  N. 

8  Camville,  L.  N. 


9  Moiiacus,  L.  N. 

10  Herebertus,  L.  N. 

11  Ernaldus  de  Cardunville, 
L.  N. 

12  Oili,  L.  N. 

13  Chaucumbe,  L.  N. 

14  Chevalchesul,  L.  N. 


376 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SC  ACC  ARIO. 


Lincolnscira — cont. 

A  D.  1166.  Simon  de  Cropria,  j  militem. 

Wiilelmus  de  Eineford,  vj  milites. 

Robertus  de  Perepunt,1 *  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Cam/*  ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Stikeltone,  j  militem. 

Herveius  3  de  Funtaines,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Walinescote,4  j  militem. 

Reginaldus  cie  Sancto  Walerico,  ij  milites. 

Wiilelmus  filius  Hamonis,  ij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Witone,5  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Comes  Leircestrise,  j  militem. 

Wiilelmus  de  Chahaines,  j  militem. 

Omnes  jam  dicti  milites  feffati 6  sunt  tempore  Henrici 
Regis  avi  vestri,  excepto  Comite  Leiricestrise  7  et  Willelmo 
de  Chahaines,  qui  post  coronationem  vestram  fefiati l! 
sunt ;  et  de  istis  8  debeo  vobis  lx  milites. 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Romara. 

Feoda  militum  Willelmi  de  Romara  in  Lindeseya  9  et 
feoda  militum  in  Wiltescira  : — 

Osbertus  de  Cauz  tenet  feoda  vj  militum. 

Herbertus  10  de  Cauz,  dimidium  militem. 

Widon  de  Ver,  j  militem 

Yvo 13  de  Wibadestone,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Tures,13  iij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Braibof,14  iij  milites. 

Petrus  de  Gasle,  dimidium  militem. 

Alanus  de  Oteby,16  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 


1  Pierepunt,  L.  N. 

3  Charun,  L.  N. 

3  Hereveius,  L.  N. 

4  Willamescote,  L.  N. 

6  Withune,  L.  N. 

6fefati,  L.  N. 

7  Leircestrice,  L.  N. 

8  Aiis,  L.  N. 


9  Lindesia,  L.  N. 

10  Herebertus,  L.  N. 

11  Gwido,  L.  N. 

13  Ivo,  L.  N. 

13  le  Tures,  L.  N. 

14  Braiboef,  L.  N. 

13  Otebi,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


377 


Lincolnscira —  cont. 

Gervasius  de  Haltone,  iiij  milites.  A.D.  1166. 

Willelmus  de  Horsintone,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Herlintone,j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Belingewrde,1  iij  milites. 

Philippus  de  Kima,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

David  de  Totintone,2  j  militem. 

Io.  112  d.  Robertus  Carbonei,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  Bricwerre,3 4 5  iiijtam  4  partem  militis. 

Simon  de  Haltone,  iiijam  4  partem  militis. 

Osbertus  Malebisse,  iiij am  4  partem  militis. 

Amfridus  de  Milingebi,  iiijam5  partem  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Milingebi,  dimidium  militem  nuper 
feodatum  6 : — 

Philippus  de  Kima,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Tailoel,7  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Bolonia,  j  militem. 

Lambert 8  de  Muletone,  dimidium  militem. 

Feodum  de  Therkeby,9  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Rotbomago,  dimidium  militem. 

Johannes  de  la  Rivere,10  v  milites. 

Godefridus  de  Dun,  iiij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Kantilupo,11  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Kantilupo,11  ij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Lingeure,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  Pasturel,  dimidium  militem. 

Gilbertus  12  de  Columbariis,  iiijtam  4  partem  militis. 

Monachi  de  Walop,13  j  militem. 

Quidam  Judaeus  in  Fetelecima,  iij  partes  militis. 


1  Bellingwrthe,  L.  N. 

2  Totinctone,  L.  N”. 

3  Brigwere,  L.  N. 

4  quartam,  L.  N. 

5  iiij,  L.  N. 

6  Nuper  feodati,  L.  N.,  as  a 

heading  for  the  supposed  fees  of 

recent  enfeo/ment. 


7  Toiloel,  L.  N. 

8  Lambertus,  L.  N. 

9  Cherkebi,  L.  N. 

10  Riviere,  L.  N. 

11  Cantilupo,  L.  N. 

12  G'ilebertus,  L.  N. 

13  Wallop,  L.  N. 


378 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Lincolnscira — cont. 

Simon  de  Oyly,1  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Kam  ville,2  iiij  milites. 

Simon  Wac,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  3  Cauceis  et  Willelmus  Leveri  sunt  in 
manu  Regis. 

Relaxatio  militum  in  eodem  feodo  4 : — 

De  Rogero  de  Beningwrthe,6  v  milites  et  dimidium. 
Gervasius  de  Haltone,  j  militem. 

Guido6  de  Ver,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Lingeura,  j  militem. 

Summa  militum — lvij. 

De  monachis  de  Revesbi,  j  militem  relaxavit. 

Hanc  relaxationem  ix  militum  et  dimidii  fecit  Willel¬ 
mus  Comes  de  Rumara  7  hiis  praedictis. 

Carta  Simonis  de  Canci.8 

Hoc  est  tenementum  Simonis  de  Cancy  9  quod  tenet 
de  Rege  in  capite  de  veteri  feffamento,10  feodum,  vide¬ 
licet,  v  militum  ;  et  haec  sunt  nomina  militum  : — 
Galfridus  de  Neville,  feodum  j  militis. 

Oliverus  de  Bocleville,  feodum  j  militis. 

Simon  de  Roplai,11  feodum  j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Neville,  feodum  j  militis. 

Et  de  dominio  suo  debet  j  militem. 

Carta  Hugonis  Wac. 

Henrico  Regi12  domino  suo  carissimo,  Hugo  Wac 
salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 


1  Oili,  L.  N. 

5  Camville,  L.  N. 

*  le,  L.  N. 

*  feodo  is  omitted  in  L.  N. 
°  Berngwurtheh' ,  L.  N. 

*  Gwido,  L.  N. 


7  Comes  WillelmuM  de  Romara, 
L.  N. 

8  This  rubric  is  omitted  in  L.  N. 

9  Canci,  L.  N. 

10  fef amento,  L.  N. 

11  Roppelai,  L.  N. 

19  Regi  Anglorum,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SOACOARIO. 


379 


Lincolnscira— cont. 

Dominus1  Willelmus  de  Coleville  tenet  de  baronia  1166- 
quam  de  vobis  teneo  feoda  ij 2  militum,  scilicet,  Ro- 
land  de  Crectone,3  j  militem,  et  Alexander  de  Wac- 
ford,4  j  militem  ;  et  tantum  ei  dedi  de  meo  dominio  de 
Brunne,  unde  mihi  quartam  partem  militis  debet. 

Ernaldus  de  Bosco,  feoda  ij 2  militum,  scilicet,  Ille- 
bertus  de  Childebiria,5  j  militem ;  Yvo  Mauduit,6 
j  militem. 

Renaldus  de  Tanet,7  feodum  ij 2  militum  quod 8  in 
dominio  de  me  tenet. 

Elias  9  de  Kingesdone,  feodum  j  militis.  Quando  Rex 
Henricus  feodavit  Willelmum  de  Rolles,  tunc  Willelmus 
deRolles10de  dominio  suo  dedit  Osmundo11  de  Wasprei 
feodum  j  militis,  quod 8  Willelmus,  filius  suus,  tenet 
de  me. 

Et  Baldewinus  filius  Gilberti 12 — postquam  Rex  Henri¬ 
cus  pro  suo  servitio 13  ei  dedit  de  dominio  suo  de  Brume  14 
— pro  servitio  suo  dedit  Roberto  filio  Gudboldi 15  feo¬ 
dum  j  militis,  quod 8  filius  suus  tenet  de  me.  Et  cui¬ 
dam  pincernae  suae,  Geroldo  de  Pinge,16  de  dominio  suo 
de  Pinge 16  dedit  feodum  dimidii  militis,  quod 8  ipse 
Geroldus  tenet  de  me.  In  Hertfordscira  sunt  quidam 
pauperes  homines  qui  tenent  de  me,  scilicet,  libertus 
filius  Hamonis  Clerici,  de  iiija  17  parte  militis ;  Henricus 
de  Hosselles,18  de  iiija  17  parte  militis ;  filius  Hugonis  de 
Laceles,19  de  viija2°  parte  militis. 


1  Domine,  L.  N. 

J  duorum,  L.  N. 
s  Dolandus  de  Cretone,  L.  N. 

4  Watforde,  L.  N. 

5  Ilebertus  de  Childeberi,  L.  N. 
e  Ivo  Malduit,  L.  N. 

I  Tanete,  L.  N. 

8  quem,  L.  N. 

9  Helias,  L.  N. 

10  Dollos,  L.  N. 


11  Osmundum  in  MSS. 

12  Gileberti,  L.  N. 

14  servitio  suo,  L.  N. 

14  Brunne,  L.  N. 

16  Guboldi,  L.  N. 

16  Sic  in  MS. ;  de  Depinge,  L.  N. 

17  quarta,  L.  N. 

18  Hosolles,  L.  N. 

19  Lacelles,  L.  N. 

20  octava ,  L.  N. 


380 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Lincolnscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Domine,  vos  vultis  scire  quale  servitium  vobis  debeo 
•  de  meo  dominio.  Hoc  est  servitium  quod  mei  praedeces¬ 
sores  1  temporibus  2  suis  servierunt  Regi  Henrico,  qui  eis 
terram  dedit,  et  ego  vobis  servitium  mei  corporis  debeo 
veluti  3  domino  qui  mihi  illam  dedistis,  quando  illud  vobis 
capere  placuerit.  Domine,  carta  ista  oportebat  fieri,4  et 
si  amplius  inquirere  possum,5  notificabo  vobis  veluti 3 
domino.  Valete. 

Fo.  ii3.  Carta  Walteri  de  Ainecurt.6 

De  feffamento  7  Walteri  de  Ainecurt 6  tenet  Paganus 
de  Sancta  Maria  feoda  v  militum  et  dimidii. 

Willelmus  de  Bella  Aqua,  dimidium  militem.8 

Radulfus  de  Ainecurt,6  iij  milites.8 

Robertus  filius  Walteri,  iij  milites.8 

Hugo  de  Haveringe,9  iiij  milites.8  • 

Galfridus  de  Stontone 10  et  Thomas  de  Rolestone,11 
iiij  feoda  militum. 

Helias  de  Famincurt,12  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Haia,  j  militem.8 

Willelmus  de  Coleville,  j  militem. 

Mauricius  et  H  enricus,  j  militem.8 

Et  hii  tenent  de  veteri  feffamento.7 

De  novo  feffamento 7  tenet  Gervasius  de  Heriz, 
j  militem.8 

Guido13  de  Russedale  et  Fulco  de  Alneto,  j  mi¬ 
litem. 

Radulfus  de  Ainecurt,6  j  militem. 


1  Prcecessores,  L.  N. 

2  corporibus,  L.  N. 

*  uti,  L.  N. 

4  festinanter  fieri,  L.  N. 
6  possim,  L.  N. 

6  A  incur t,  L.  N. 
r  fef 'amento,  L.  N. 


8  militem  or  militet  omitted  in 
L.  N. 

9  Hoveringeham,  L.  N. 

10  Stantone,  L.  N. 

11  Rollestone,  L.  N. 

12  Fanucurt,  L.  N. 

15  Gwido,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


381 


Lincolnscira — cont. 

Philippus  de  Kime  et  Eustachius  de  Berchectane,1  A-D- 1166- 
feodum  j  militis. 

Radulfus  de  Waltervilla  et  Radulfus  de  Grincurt, 
dimidium  militem. 

Elias  de  Fanuent,1 2 3  dimidium  militem. 

Et  super  dominium,  xj  milites. 

Carta  Willelmi  Martel. 

Ego  Willelmus  Martel  teneo  de  Rege  in  capite8 
quartam  partem  j  militis 4 *  in  Canewico 6  juxta  Lin- 
colniam  de  antiquo  feffamento,6  unde  debeo  ei  facere 
servitium  et  nichil 7  de  novo  feffamento 6  in  comitatu 
Lincolniae. 


Carta  Comitis  Simonis. 

Hii  sunt  feodati  de  comitatu 8  Comitis  Simonis  post 
mortem  9  Henrici  Regis  :  — 

Robertus  filius  Hugonis,  j  militem  et  dimidium  de 
dominio  de  Heddenham.10 

Adam  de  Amundeville,  j  militem  de  eodem  do¬ 
minio. 

Hugo  VVac  augmentatus  est  de  Hermetorp  sine 
augmento  servitii ;  et  Willelmus  de  Amundeville, 
de  Grinestorp,11  sine  augmento  servitii. 

Herbertus  filius  Alard,12  dimidium  militem  de  do¬ 
minio. 

Philippus  de  Kime,  dimidium  militem  de  dominio. 

Ricardus  Bar,13  dimidium  militem  de  dominio. 


1  Berchett\_ane~\,  L.  N. 

2  Sic  in  MS. ;  Fanucurt,  L.  N. 

3  in  capite  de  Rege,  L.  N. 

4  feodi  j  militis,  L.  N. 

6  Canewic,  L.  N. 

*  fef amento,  L.  N. 

7  nichil  habeo,  L.  N. 


8  Hii  sunt  milites  feodati  Comi¬ 
tis  Simonis,  L.  N. 

9  obitum,  L.  N. 

10  Edenham,  L.  N. 

11  Grimestorpe,  L.  N. 

11  Herbertus  filius  Alardi,  L.  N. 
13  Baar,  L.  N. 


382 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACOARIO. 


Lincolnscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Elias  1  Foliot,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  Medicus,  dimidium  militem. 

Elias  2  de  Amund[eville],  j  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Willelmi,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Willelmus  de  Vescy,3  tertiam  partem  militis. 
Gernagotus,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Walteri,  quintam4 5  partem  j  mi¬ 
litis. 

Willelmus  Grim,  iiijam  5  partem  militis. 

Walterus  Clericus,  vam  partem  militis.6 
Johannes  Camerarius,  vjam  partem  militis.6 
Robertus  Pincerna,  xij  partem  [militis].7 8 
Thomas  de  Hal,  xij  partem  militis.6 
Ricardus  Frost,  x  partem  militis.6 
Bunda,  iiijam6  partem  militis.6 
Jocelinus  de  Bartun,  viijam8  partem  militis.6 
Robertus  filius  Malgeri,  x  partem  militis.6 
Malgerus  de  Hund[ingtonJ,  xvj  9  partem  [militis]. 
Andreas  de  Norewico,10  x  partem. 

Ricardus  filius  Rogeri,  xx 11  partem.12 
Elias,13  frater  ejus,  xx  11  partem. 

Safridus,14  x  partem. 

Wigotus,  xxx15  partem. 

Aaron,  dimidium  militem. 

Philippus  de  Kime  augmentatus  est  de  j  16  milite, 
qui  servitium  iij  17  militum  faciebat  antiquitus. 
Besingeby 18  et  Spetone,  feoda  scilicet  ij  19  mi- 


1  Helias,  L.  N. 

2  Helyas,  L.  N. 

1  Vesci,  L.  N. 

4  v,  L.  N. 

5  quartam,  L.  N. 

6  L.  N.  omits  militis. 

7  militis  omitted  in  MS. 

8  octavam,  L.  N. 

9  sextam  decimam,  L.  N. 

10  Norewiz,  L.  N. 


11  vicesimam,  L.  N. 

12  L.  N.  adds  militis. 

13  Helias,  L.  N. 

14  Safredus,  L.  N. 

15  tricesimam,  L.  N. 

16  uno,  L.  N. 

17  trium,  L.  N. 

18  Besinyebi,  L.  N. 

19  duorum,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


383 


Lincolnscira— cont. 

litum,  datas1  sunt  Canonicis  de  Brell[ington]  in  A.l).  H66. 
elemosinam. 

Hii  sunt  [milites]  feodati  Comitis  Sy[monis] 2  ex  tem¬ 
pore  Henrici  Regis  3  : — 

Robertus  Marin,  vj  milites. 

Ricardus  de  la  Hale,  j  militem. 

Hugo  Wac,  j  militem. 

Reginaldus  Crevequer,4  dimidium  militem.5 
Henricus  de  la  Reie,6  j  militem. 

David  de  Armere,  x  milites. 

Philippus  de  Kima,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Walteri,  vj  milites.7 
Willelmus  de  Amundeville,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Heriz,  iiij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Muschamp,  iij  milites. 

Leonius  de  Arcellis,  iij  milites. 

Hugo  filius  Radulfi,  iiij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Herbert  filius  Alard,8  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Simonis,  ij  milites. 

Petrus  de  Screinbi,9  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Ekeringes,10  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Wiham,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Saili,11  j  militem. 

Fo.  i  I3d.  Brien,  j  militem. 

Jocelinus  de  Brandone,12  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Torpe,13  j  militem. 

Ascelinus  de  Walterville,  dimidium  militem. 

Ivo  de  Selkebi,  vjtam  partem  militis. 


1  data,  L.  N. 

2  Sy\_monis  Comitis'],  L.  N. 

3  A  rubric  which  is  given  here  in 
L.  N.  as  Carta  Comitis  Sy\_monis] 
is  erased  in  the  MS. 

4  de  Creievequer,  L.  N. 

8  L.  N.  omits  militem. 

8  Rie,  L.  N. 


7  milites  is  omitted  in  L.  N. 

8  Herebertus  filius  Aellard,  L.  N. 

9  Scrembi,  L.  N. 

10  Eikeringes,  L.  N. 

11  Sailli,  L.  N. 

12  Brandun,  L.  N. 

13  Torp,  L.  N. 


384 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Lincolnscira— cont. 

A.D.  H66.  Reinelinus,  ii] 1  partes  militis.2 

Hugo  de  Braitoft,3  iijam  4  partem  militis. 

Hugo  filius  Walteri  Camerarii,  iiijtam  5  partem  mi¬ 
litis. 

Jocelinus  Peil  de  Cerf,  iiijtam  5  partem  militis. 
Willelmus  de  Brachtewrte,6  v 7  partem  militis. 
Radulfus  de  Herford.8  Galfridus  de  Neville, 
ij  milites. 

Robertus  Scropes,9  j  militem. 

Ilenricus,  j  militem. 

Walterus  de  Grendone,  j  militem. 

Ranulfus  filius  Walteri,  j  militem. 

Thomas,  j  militem. 

Galfridus  filius  Malgeri,  iiijtam  partem  militis. 
Ernaldus  de  Martun,  iiij  partem  militis. 

Almarieus  de  Rittone,10  iiij  partem  militis. 

Gumer,  vj  partem  militis. 

Besingebi,  j  militem. 

Spectone,11  j  militem. 

Yvo  filius  Walteri,  vjtam  partem  militis.12 

Carta  Mauricii  de  Crohom.13 

Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  domino  suo,  Mauricius  de 
Crohom 13  salutem.  Mando  vobis  quod  Simon  filius 
Walteri  tenet  de  meo  feodo14  vj  15  milites. 

Thomas  filius  Willelmi,  j  militem. 

Alanus  de  Roches,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  filius  Willelmi,  iij  milites. 


1  tres,  L.  N. 

3  j  militis,  L.  N. 

*  Breintoft,  L.  N. 

4  tertiam,  L.  N. 

5  quartam,  L.  N. 

6  JBracwrthe,  L.  N. 

7  quintam,  L.  N. 

8  Hereford,  L.  N. 


9  Scrop,  L.  N. 

10  Rithun,  L.  N. 

11  Spetone,  L.  N. 

12  militis  repeated  in  MS. 

13  On  an  erasure  in  MS.  ;  Crun, 
L.  N. 

14  feodo  meo,  L.  N. 

15  sex,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


385 


Lincoltescira — cont. 

Henricus  filius  Vivien,  j  militem.  A.D.  1166. 

Alvredus  filius  Alexandri,  iij  milites. 

Ricardus  Luvet,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Hugo  de  Boby,1  j  militem. 

Hugo  filius  Algeri,  j  militem. 

Columbanus,  j  militem. 

Johannes  de  Wellebec,2 3  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Willelmus  de  Amundeville,  dimidium  militem. 

Hoc  feodum  supradictum  est  de  antiquo  feodo  meo. 

Baldricus,  archidiaconus  Leicestriae  tenet  de  feodo 
meo  j  militem. 

Rogerus  filius  Willelmi,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Simonis,  dimidium  militem. 

Alvredus  filius  Alexandri,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  Monachus,4  dimidium  militem. 

Stephanus  Camerarius,  j  militem. 

Istos  post  nominatos  feffavit 5  pater  meus  et  ego  post 
mortem  Henri ci  Regis  avi  vestri. 


Carta  Lamberti  de  Scoteni.6 

Venerabili  domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,7  Lam- 
bertus  de  Scoteni  6  salutem. 

Sciatis  quod  ego,  vestri  gratia,  teneo  de  vobis  xvj 
earucatas  8  terree  et  duas  bovatas  per  servitium  x  mili¬ 
tum.  In  hiis  xvj  carucatis 9  terrae  habeo  v  milites 
feodatos  ex  antiquitate  : — 

Ricardus  de  Haia  tenet  feodum  j  militis;  et  ser¬ 
vitium  illud  vobis  et  mihi,  postquam  coronatus 
fuisti,  detinuit  hucusque,  nisi  quod  solum  duas 
marcas  habui. 


1  Boebi,  L.  N  ;  the  e  is  marked 
for  deletion  in  the  MS. 

1  Wellebi,  L.  N. 

3  Lericestrice,  L.  N. 

4  Monacus,  L.  N. 

ifeqfavit,  L.  N. 

68377. 


6  Scotenni,  L.  N. 

7  Anglice,  L.  N. 

8  earucatas  repeated  in  MS. ; 
carrucatas,  L.  N. 

9  carrucatis ,  L.  N. 

B  B 


386 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Lincoliescira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Et  Eudo  cle  Cranesbi1  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Thomas  filius  Willelmi,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Millers,2  ij  milites. 

Et  ex  dominio  meo  vobis3  mando  quod  debeo  ser¬ 
vitium  v  militum  ;  et  ex  illo  dominio  dedi  Roberto  de 
Portemort,4  tres  partes  j  militis.  Ideo  vos  deprecor 
quod  mihi  placitum  vestrum  de  Ricardo  de  Haia  man¬ 
detis,  qui  mihi  servitium  illius  feocli  detinet,  nec  potero 
habere  nisi  per  pncceptum  vestrum.  Et  totum  ser¬ 
vitium  istud 5  est  in  praedictis  xvj  carucatis 6  terrae. 
Valete. 

Carta  Thomle  de  Arcy.7 

Hoc  est  feodum  Thomae  de  Arcy  7 : — 

Thomas  de  Arci  tenet  feocla  v  militum. 

Nicholaus8  de  Arci  tenet  feoda  ii  j  militum. 

Robertus  de  Neville,  j  militis. 

Andreas  de  Wactone,9  j  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Galfridi,  j  militis. 

Gerardus  de  Crokesbi,  j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Turgrimbi  et  Thomas  filius  Willelmi  de 
Turgrimbi 10  tenent  feoda  iij  11  militum. 

Alanus  de  Ormesbi  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  Berner12  et  Johannes  de  Ouresbi,  feodum 
j  militis. 

Simon  filius  Osberti,  ij  militum. 

Willelmus  Hurtquarter,13  et  Joelanus  de  Curtes,14  et 
Radulfus  Pincun  tenent  feodum  j  militis. 

Haec  feoda  sunt  de  veteri  feffamento.15 


1  Grainesby,  L.  N. 

2  Millei,  L.  N. 

3  vos,  L.  N. 

4  Portmort,  L.  N. 

5  istud  servitium,  L.  N. 

°  hiis  praedictis  carrucatis,  L.  N. 

7  Arci,  L.  N. 

8  Nicolaus ,  L.  N. 


9  Wottone,  L.  N. 

10  Turegrimbi,  L.  N. 

11  trium,  L.  N. 

12  Bernier,  L.  N. 

13  Hurtequartier,  L.  N. 

14  Cotes,  L.  N. 

18  fcj amento,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


387 


Llncoliescira — cont. 

De  novo  feffamento  1 : —  A.D.  lice 

Robertus  filius  Hugonis,  dimidium  militem  de 
dominio  suo. 

Radulfus  de  Arcy 2  tenet  feodum  iiijtffi3  partis 
j  4  militis  de  dominio  suo. 

Carta  Hugonis  de  Baiocis. 

Domino  suo  carissimo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Hugo 
de  Baiocis  salutem.  Yeteres  feodati 5  de  meo  feodo, 

Fo.  114.  scilicet,  die  6  et  anno  quo  Rex  Hernicus  avus  vester  fuit 
vivus  et  mortuus,  sunt  isti : — 

Petrus  de  Gaosa,  feoda  7  v  militum  ;  sed  Petrus  in 
feodo  illo  fundavit  quandam  Abbatiam  in  feodo 
j  militis,  in  qua  elemosina  pater  meus  volens 
partiri,  Abbatiam  illam  francliiavit  de  servitio 
feodi  j  militis  ubi  fundata  erat ;  et  servitium 
illius  militis  cepit  super  dominium 8  suum,  et 
quietos  inde  clamavit  Petrum  et  haeredes  suos. 

Petrus  itaqua  feoda  habet  iiij  militum  ;  et  ab  eo 
f effati 5  sunt  Petrus  de  Merstona  et  Joce  de 
Brunne. 

Agnes  filia  Jocelini  de  feodis  iij 9  militum.  Ab 
eo 10  feffati 5  sunt  [Walterus]  de  Huel 11  et  Pe¬ 
trus  de  Mause. 

Adam  de  Rowel 12  de  iiijor  militibus ;  et  ab  eo 
feffati5  sunt  Robertus  de  Wedone13  et  Ricardus 
de  Cukewald.14' 


1  fef amento,  L.  N. 

2  Arci,  L.  N. 

3  quart  ce,  L.  N. 

4  unius,  L.  N. 

5  fefati,  L.  N. 

6  de  die,  L.  N. 

7  de  feodis,  L.  N. 

8  dominicum,  L.  N. 

9  trium,  L.  N. 

10  Ab  ea,  L.  N. 


11  Walterus  omitted  in  MS. ; 
Walterus  de  Huwelle,  L.  N. 

12  Rowelle,  L.  N.  This  and  the 
following  entries  are  entered  in  the 
MS.  without  any  intelligent  division 
of  the  paragraphs,  which  have  been 
restored  here  from  L.  N. 

13  Widine,  L.  N. 

14  Chukuald,  L.  N. 


B  B  2 


388 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Lincoliescira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Jordanus  de  Hegelinge  de  iij  militibus;  et  ab  eo 
feffati 1  sunt  Ranulfus  de  Braticbherge 2  et  Jo¬ 
hannes  de  Maringe. 

Willelmus  de  Branceville3  de  feodo  j  militis. 

Alanus  de  Rapingehale4 5  de  feodo  dimidii  militis; 
et  iiija  5  pars  militis  in  calumpnia  est  inter  me 
et  ipsum.6 

Post  mortem  Regis  Henrici  feffati 1  sunt  isti  de  feodo 
meo,  scilicet : — 

Alanus,  frater  meus,  de  feodis  ij  militum  ;  et  ab  eo 
f effatus 7  est  Simon  de  Insula. 

Ace  de  Sancto  Luzo  f  effatus  7  est  de  feodo  j  mi¬ 
litis. 

Suspiriis  de  Baiocis  de  feodo  dimidii  militis. 

Ivo  de  Maricis8  de  feodo  dimidii  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Punchardun  9  de  va  parte  militis. 

Remanet  itaque  modo  super  dominium  meum  feodum 
dimidii  militis  va  parte  minus  ;  et  inde  tenent 10  de  me  in 
maritasdo  Willelmus  de  Ver11  et  Gilbertus  12  de  Sancto 

o 

Laudo  13  cum  duabus  sororibus  meis,  absque  hoc  quod 
inde  feffati 1  sunt.  Et  ego  inde  servitium  feci. 

Yalete. 

Carta  Roberti  filii  Hugonis. 

Servitium  cpiod  Robertus  filius  Hugonis  debet  Regi 
[est]  xxv  militum.  Ex  liiis  sunt  feffati  1  xij  et  dimidius 
ex  tempore  Regis  Henrici : — 

Everardus  de  Adsnes,14  ij  milites  et  tertiam  partem 
militis.15 


lfefati,  L.  N. 

2  Sic  in  MS. ;  Braeeberge,  L.  N. 

3  Braiicewelle ,  L.  N. 

4  Repingehale,  L.  N. 

5  quarta,  L.  N. 

6  illum,  L.  N. 

*  fefatus,  L.  N. 

8  Yvo  de  Mariscis ,  L.  N. 

9  Puntchardun,  L.  N. 


10  tenet  in  MS. 

11  Ver  is  followed  by  an  erasure  ; 
Weres,  L.  N. 

12  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

13  Lodo,  L.  N. 

14  The  second  s  is  interlined  in 
MS. ;  Adnes,  L.  N. 

15  militis  omitted  in  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEHS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


389 


Lincoliescira — cont, 

Rich[er] 1  de  Docing,2  j  militem.  A.D.  1166. 

Robertus  filius  Simonis,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Foliot,  j  militem. 

Herbertus  filius  Aelard,3  dimidium  militem. 

Alanus  de  Ageford,4  dimidiam  partem  [militis]. 

Rogerus  de  Tostes,  dimidiam  partem. 

Herbertus  de  Masingham,5  ij  6  partes  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Hoiland,7  ij  6  partes. 

Walterus  filius,  ij  6  partes. 

Ricardus  de  Heclingliam,8 9  ij  partes. 

Radulfus  filius  Willelmi,  ij  6  partes. 

Radulfus  de  Burt,  iijam  9  partem. 

Robertus  de  Dentona,  iijam  9  partem. 

Albricus,  iijam  9  partem. 

Simon  de  Boby,10  vjam  partem. 

Alanus  le  Bret,11  vjam  partem. 

Walterus  filius  Hugonis,  vjam  partem. 

Osbertus  Malebisse,  vjam  12  partem. 

Henricus  de  Kele,13  vjam  12  partem. 

Willelmus  filius  Ivonis,  vjam12  partem. 

Gervasius  et  Thomas  de  Kaimesbi,14  vjam  par¬ 
tem. 

Walterus  filius  Irvei,15  Rogerus  de  Gerlintone,16 

vjam  i2  partem. 

Willelmus  filius  Hervei,17  x  partem. 


1  Iltc[ardus~\,  L.  N. 

2  Docinge,  L.  N. 

3  Herebertus  filius  Aelardi,  L.  N. 

4  Agford,  L.  N. 

5  Herebertus  de  Massing  eh  am, 
L.  N. 

6  duas,  L.  N. 

'  Hoilande ,  L.  N. 

8  Ileclingeham,  L.  N. 

9  tertiam,  Ti.  N. 

'  10  Possibly  Roby  altered  to 

Boby  ;  Bobi,  L.  N. 


11  De  Bret  altered  to  le  Bret  by 
subpuncting  De  for  deletion  and 
interlining  le. 

12  sextam,  L.  N. 

13  William  son  of  Ivo  precedes 
Henry  de  Kele  in  L.  N. 

14  Kannosbi,  L.  X. 

15  frvoi,  L.  N. 

16  Gerlingtone,  L.  N. 

17  Herevei,  L.  N. 


390 


LIBEIl  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Lincoliescira — cont. 

A. D.  1166.  Et  post  mortem  Henrici  Regis  feffavi 1  de  meo  do¬ 
minio  : — 

Espervic,2  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  la  Lande,  dimidiam  partem  militis. 
Carta  Ricardi  de  Haia. 

Isti  sunt  milites  Ricardi  de  Haia,  et  serviunt  ad 
servitium  Regis  per  carucatas.3  Et  v 4  carucatse  5 
faciunt  j  militem,  et  milites  tenent  eas,  quidam  plus 
quidam  minus : — 

Philippus  de  Kima  et  Joselinus  de  Engleby 6  debent 
ij  7  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Estikewalt,8  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Faldingoard,9  et  Robertus  de  Hano- 
worda,10  et  Rogerus  de  Suthbroc,11  dimidium 
militem. 

Thomas  de  Pingoorde  12  et  Jionec  13  de  Flintheam,14 
ij  milites. 

Reginaldus  de  Neutona  16  et  Alanus  Pes  Canis,  j  mi¬ 
litem. 

Rogerus  Burnel 16  et  Robertus  filius  Juliani,  ij  mi¬ 
lites. 

Gerardus  de  Cherehebi,17  et  Jordanus  de  Essebi,  et 
Ricardus  de  Orostetone,18  ij  milites. 

Walterus  de  Amundeville,19  dimidium  militem. 


1  fefavi,  L.  N. 

2  Espervit,  L.  N. 

3  carruccitas,  L.  N. 

4  quinque,  L.  N. 

5  carrucatce,  L.  N. 

6  Joisleinus  de  Englebi,  L.  N. 

7  duos,  L.  N. 

8  With  an  erasure  in  the  MS. 

9  Fuldiyoard[e'],  L.  N. 

10  Hanoorda,  L.  N.  The  tu  is  a 
later  interlineation  in  the  MS. 

11  Sutbroc,  L.  N. 


12  Pigoorda,  L.  N. 

13  Juonec  altered  to  Jionec  after 
an  erasure  in  the  MS. ;  Gwionec, 
L.  N. 

14  FcHntheham,  L.  N. 

15  Niwetone,  L.  N. 

16  The  r  in  Burnel  is  interlined 
in  the  MS. ;  Bunel,  L.  N. 

17  Cherkebi,  L.  N. 

18  Crostetone,  L.  N. 

19  H  apparently  erased  in  MS. 
before  Amundeville. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


391 


Lincoliescira — cont. 

Isti  sunt  milites  de  veteri  feffamento.1  A.n.  1166. 

Et  isti  sunt  de  novo  :  — 

Hugo  Bardulfus,2  ij  3  milites. 

Doun  Bardulf,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Landa,  j  militem. 

Et  v4  milites  super  dominium.5 


Fo.iua.  NORFOLCIA.6 

Cakta  Wjllelmi  Episcopi  Norwicensis.7 * 

Domino  suo  carissimo  Henrico  illustri  *  Regi  Anglorum, 
Willelmus,  Dei  gratia  Norwicensis9  dictus  Episcopus, 
.salutem  et  fidelitatem. 

Isti  sunt  milites  feffati 10  de  veteri  feffamento 1  Epis¬ 
copatus  Norwicensis  : — 

Petrus  Con stabularius  habet  iij  milites  et  di¬ 
midium. 

Galfridus  Dapifer,  v  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Gonetone,  iiij  milites. 

Rogerus  Archidiaconus,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Colecherehe,11  j  militem. 

Simon  de  Noers,12  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Grossus,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Wikemere,13  dimidium  militem. 


1  fefamento,  L.  N. 

5  Bardulf,  L.  N. 

3  duos,  L.  N. 

4  quinque,  L.  N. 

"  L.  N.  has  below  this  entry  the 

heading  [C]omes  Cestr[ie p],  in  a 

later  hand,  the  initial  C  of  Comes 

being  left  blank  and  a  small  c  in¬ 

serted  in  the  margin  as  a  guide  to 

the  rubricator. 


B  Nortf olcia,  L.  N. 

7  Carta  domini  Norwice?isis, 
L.  N. 

8  illustrissimo.  L.  N. 

9  Nerwicensis,  L.  N. 
l0fefati,  L.  N. 

11  Colechirche,  L.  N. 

12  Nuers,  L.  N. 

13  Wikemera,  L.  N. 


392 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Norfolcia — cont. 

Willelmus  de  Sicheford,1  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Glan ville,  dimidium  militem. 

Monachi  Norwicensis  Ecclesim,  dimidium  militem. 

Osmundus  Marscallus,2 *  iiijtam  3  partem  militis. 

Petrus  de  Meling,4 *  iiij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Wirmegey,6  x  milites  ;  sed  dimidi[um] 
mi!  it  [em]  mihi  deforciat.6 

Isti  milites7  feffati 8  de  novo  feffamento9  ante  mor¬ 
tem  Henrici  Recis.10  Post  mortem  ejus,  tempore  Gueirse, 
de> iit  Eborardus  Episcopus  Johanni  filio  Roberti  maner- 
ium  de  Bliccling11  de  dominio  Episcopi  Norwicensis 12 
pro  servitio  j  militis,  quod  modo  tenet  Willelmus, 
frater  ejus.13 


Carta  de  honore  Sancti  Edmundi. 

Isti  sunt  milites  de  honore  Sancti  Edmundi 14  de  veteri 
feffamento9  de  tempore  Regis  Henrici  : — 

Willelmus  de  Hasting,13  v  milites. 

Willelmus  Blundus,  j  militem. 

Petrus  de  Brokeleia,  j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Illeia,16  ij  milites. 

Gilbertus17  filius  Radulfi,  iij  milites. 

Robertus  Revel,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Langetot,  iij  milites. 

Adam  de  Horningeshearde,18  dimidium  militem. 
Willelmus  de  Bokeham,  dimidium  militem. 


1  Secheford,  L.  N. 

2  Mar escalius,  L.  N. 

8  quartani,  L.  N. 

4  Mellinges,  L.  N. 

6  Wermegai,  L.  N. 

6  dijfurciat,  L.  N. 

7  Isti  sunt  milites,  L.  N. 

»fefati,  L.  N. 

9  fef  'amento,  L.  N. 


10  Regis  Henrici,  L.  N. 

11  Bticklinga,  L.  N. 

12  Norewicensis,  L.  N. 

13  suus,  L.  N. 

14  Eadmundi,  L.  N. 

15  Hastingcs,  L.  N. 

16  Isicia,  L.  N. 

17  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

18  Hornigesearde-,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


393 


Norfolcia — cont. 

Ricardus  de  Hanesty,1  dimidium  militem.  A.D.  nt>6. 

Comes  Albricus,  v  milites  et  dimidium. 

Simon  de  Hicheworthe,2  ij  milites. 

Hamon  Pecc[atu]m,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Valoniis,  j  militem. 

Henricus  de  Livremere,  ij  3  partes  militis. 

Gilbertus  4  de  Turstone,  iij  5  partem  militis. 

Fulko6  filius  Willelmi,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Sexham,7  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Hou,  ij  milites. 

Gilbertus  4  de  Sancto  Claro,  ij  3  partes  j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Wicham,8  iij  5  partem  j  militis. 

Jocelinus  de  Lodnis,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Golbodi,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Cokesfeld,9  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Walterus  de  Lindeseia,  j  militem. 

Comes  Hugo,  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Berdewelle,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Taidene,  dimidium  militem. 

Normannus  de  Rissebi,10  dimidium  militem. 

Anselmus  de  Randestone,  j  militem. 

Raimundus  Bigod,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Halstede,  j  militem. 

Adam  de  Welwethame,11  iij  12  partes  j  militis. 

Wibertus,  iiijam  13  partem  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Kaisneto,14  j  militem. 

Ranulfus  de  Glanville,  j  militem. 

Alexander  de  Wridesthelle,15  iiijam  13  partem  j  militis. 


1  Anesti,  L.  N. 

*  Hicchewrthe,  L.  N. 

3  duas,  L.  N. 

4  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

5  tertiam,  L.  N. 

6  Fulco,  L.  N 

7  Sexam,  L.  N. 

8  Wriham,  L.  N. 

9  Cokefelde,  L.  N. 


10  Risebi,  L.  N. 

11  Welvetham,  L.  N. 

12  tres,  L.  N. 

13  quartam,  L.  N. 

14  Caisneto,  L.  N. 

14  Wridestelle,  L.  N.  ;  the  h  is 
interlineated  in  a  later  hand  in 
MS. 


394 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Norfolcia — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Stephanus  de  Brokedis,  iiijam  partem  j  militis.1 

Hunfridus2  de  Berningeham,  iiijam  partem  j  mili¬ 
tis  ; 1  solus  de  novo  feffamento. 

Hsec  est  summa  militum  Ecclesiae  Sancti  Edmundi,3 4 
scilicet,  lij  et  dimidium  et  iiija4  pars  j  militis;  sed 
Ecclesia  5  non  debet  nisi  servitium  xl  militum.  Et  ex 
hiis  retinet  Comes  Hugo  et  deforciat6  wardam  trium 
militum  in  Castello  de  Norwico.7 

Carta  Willelmi  8  Abbatis  de  Hulmo. 

Carissimo  domino  suo  Henrico  illustri  Begi  Anglorum, 
Willelmus,  Dei  gratia  dictus  Abbas  de  Hulmo,  salutem 
et  fidele  servitium. 

Isti  sunt  milites  de  veteri  feffamento9  Ecclesia} 
nostrae  : — 

Willelmus  de  Caletorp  habet  feodum  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Hurstestede  10  tenet  feodum  militis  in 
eadem  villa.11 

Bartholomaeus  de  Glanvilla  tenet  iij  12  partes  militis 
in  villa  de  Hamingges.13 

Walterus  de  Wilitone  14  tenet  dimidiam  partem 
militis. 

Stephanus  tenet  vam  partem  militis  in  Redham. 

Willelmus  de  Stalham  tenet  v  partem  militis  in 
Besetone  et  in  Stalham. 

De  novo  feffamento,9  post  mortem  Regis  Henrici,  non 
habemus. 


1  quartam  partem  militis,  L.  N. 

2  Humfridus ,  L.  N. 

3  Eadmundi ,  L.  N. 

4  quarta,  L.  N. 

5  Eclesia  in  MS. 

6  difforciat,  L.  JNT. 

'  Norewico,  L.  N. 

a  Willelmi  omitted  iu  L.  N. 

°  fef amento,  L.  N. 


10  The  r  is  interlineated  in  a  later 
hand  in  the  MS. 

11  In  eadem  villa  Bartholomceus 
.  .  .  begins  a  new  entry  in  L.  N. 

12  tres,  L.  N. 

13  In  villa  de  Haniyges  begins  a 
new  entry  in  L.  N. 

14  Wllintout,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


395 


N  ORFOLOI A — cont. 

Fo.  ii5.  Carta  Comitis  Hugonis,1 

Hoc 'est  scriptum  Comitis  Hugonis  de  militibus  quos 
tenet  in  capite  de  Rege  de  veteri  feffamento,2  quos 
Rogerus  Bigod,3  pater  suus,  feffavit  4  : — 

Comes  Arundelise,5  x  milites  de  maritagio. 

Willelmus  de  Wall  [ibus],  xxx  milites. 

Bartholomseus  de  Crec,  viij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Glanville,  iij  milites. 

Alenaldus6  de  Bidun,  vij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Verdone,7  vj  milites. 

Robertus  de  Yaus,8  v  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Wirangerge,9  ij  milites. 

Jordanus  de  Lodnes,  iij  milites. 

Osbertus  10  filius  Willelmi,  iiij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Curzun,11  iij  milites. 

Robertus  Butevilain,  iij  milites. 

W  illelmus  de  Bosco,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Radulfus  filius  Walteri,  j  militem. 

Philippus  de  Evereus,12  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Raimes,  ij  milites  de  maritagio. 

Rogerus  de  Herleberge,  dimidium  militem. 
Willelmus  filius  Ricardi,  iij  milites. 

Herbertus  13  Buliun,  dimidium  militem. 

Nicholaus  14  et  Robertus,  j  militem. 

Hersent,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Ricardus  filius  Mauricii,  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Filius  Willelmi  de  Fraxneto,15  j  militem  et  iiijam  16 
partem. 


1  Comitis  Hugonis  Bigod,  L.  N. 

2  fefamento,  L.  N. 

3  Bigotus,  L.  N. 

A  fefavit,  L.  N. 

5  Arundellice,  L.  N. 

6  Halendaldus,  L.  N. 

7  Verdum  L.  N. 

8  Valllibus-],  L.  N. 


9  Sic  in  MS. ;  Wirming[ai~\, 
L.  N. 

10  Osebertus,  L.  N. 

11  Curcim,  L.  N. 

12  Enrols,  L.  N. 

13  Herebertus,  L.  N. 

14  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 

15  Fraxineto,  L.  N. 

16  quartam,  L.  N. 


A.D.  11 


396 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


N  ORFOLCiA' — cont. 

A.D.  1 166.  Galfridus  Patitus,1  ij  milites. 

Ricardus  filius  Osberti,2  dimidium  militem. 
Willelmus  de  Pirou,3  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Boneville,4  iij  milites. 

Radulfus  de  Turin  ville,  iij  milites. 

Robertus,  et  Hamo,  et  Jordanus,  et  Robertus,  ij  mi¬ 
lites. 

Uxor  Radulfi  filii  Bemer[i],5  dimidium. 

Simon  de  Kantilupo,  ij  et  dimidium. 

Radulfns  filius  Norman  ni,  iij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Geroldus  Marscallus,6 7  dimidium  militem. 

Ranulfus  de  Glanville,  dimidium  [militem]. 
Willelmus  Hom[ez],  j  militem  et  iiijam  partem  mi¬ 
litis. 

Willelmus  filius  Willelmi,  iiijam7  partem  militis. 
Robertus  Money,8  iiijam  7  partem  militis. 

Uxor  Ricardi  de  Warde ville.9 
Eustachius,  iiijam  7  partem  militis. 

Fulcherus10  et  filius  Ulgeri,  iiijam  7  partem  militis. 

Summa — c  et  xxv  milites.11 

Milites  quos  Comes  Hugo  feffavit 12  de  novo : — 

Willelmus  de  Nevilla,  iij  milites  de  Walesham  et 
aliunde,  j  militem.13 
Jordanus  de  Cailly,14  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Raimes,15  ij  milites  de  Alvergate. 
Henricus  de  Neville,  j  militem. 

Henricus  filius  Geroldi,  j  militem. 


1  Sic  in  MS. ;  Pateric,  L.  N. 

*  O seber ti,  L.  N. 

s  Pirrou,  L.  N. 

4  Duneville,  L.  N. 

5  Bern\er'i\ ,  L.  N. 

6  Marasc  \_allus~\ ,  L.  N. 

7  quartam,  L.  N. 

8  de  Monei,  L.  N. 

s  Sic  in  MSS. :  Wirdeville,  L.  N. 


10  Fulcherius,  L  N. 
n.  In  margin,  in  a  later  hand, 
Sumina  de  veteri  c  xxv  feoda,  L.  N. 
u  fefavit,  L.  N. 

13  De  W nlesham  begins  a  new 
paragraph  in  L.  N. 

14  Cailli,  L.  N. 

15  Raimis,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


397 


Norfoloia - cont. 

Galfridus  filius  Osberti,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Picot,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Bosco,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Alexander  de  Vallibus,1  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Bernwelle,  j  2  militem. 

Willelmus  Lenveise,3  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Coleville,  j  militem. 

Walterus  Marscallus,4  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Grein ville,5  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Galfridus  et  de  Toleu,6  ij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Kokefeld,7  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Glanville,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  filius  Ricardi,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Edmundi,  iiijam  8  partem  militis. 
Philippus  de  Claverige,  iiijam  8  partem  militis. 

De  feodo  Albredm  de  Insula. 

Comes  de  Albemare,9  v  milites. 

Willelmus  Basset,  ij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Clere,  ij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Tuit,  j  militem. 

Filius  Herberti  et  Bertram,10  dimidium  militem. 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Albenia.11 

JToc  est  tenementuin  Willelmi  de  Albeneia,11  Pin- 
cernae  domini  Regis,  de  dono  Regis  Henrici,  qui  dedit  ei 
de  feodo  quod  fuit  Corbuchun  12  xv  milites  feffatos.13  Et 
postea  dedit  ei  feodum  de  x  militibus  feffatis  14  de  terra 


1  Wall[ibus ],  L.  N. 

2  dim[idiuni],  L.  N.,  but  the  d 
has  been  erased  apparently  to  form 
un[um~\ . 

3  Le  Enveise,  L.  N. 

4  Marescallus,  L.  N. 

4  Grainville,  L.  N. 

6  Sic  in  MS. ;  Galfridus  de 

Tolebu,  L.  N. 


7  Cokefeld,  L.  N. 

8  quartam ,  L.  N. 

9  Alb  amara,  L.  N". 

10  Bertram  et  Herebert,  L.  N. 

11  Albeneio,  L.  N. 

12  Corbuchum,  L.  N. 

13  fefatos ,  L.  N. 

Hfefatis,  L.  N. 


A.D.  1  lfifi. 


398 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCAR10. 


A.D. 1166. 


Fo.  115  d. 


N  ORFOLCIA — cont. 

Rogeri  Bigod,  cum  lilia  Rogeri  Bigod,  de  manu  sua; 
et  postea  dedit  ei  servitium  Radulfi  lilii  Godrichi 1  de 
xij  militibus  ;  et  servitium  Alvredi  de  Athleburcho  2  de 
ij  militibus ;  et  Picot  de  Bavent 3  de  j  milite  ;  et  feo¬ 
dum  Reineri  4  Sine  Averio  de  j  milite ;  et  feodum  Wil- 
lelmi  de  Mustervilla  de  j  milite. 

Haec  est  summa — xlij  milites  feffati 5  in  baronia  sua. 

Et  ipse  Pincerna  fellavit6  de  dominio  suo  in  Nor- 
folcia,7  xxij  milites. 

Galfridum  de  Merlei8  de  v  militibus. 

Et  Willelmum  Yeltrier  de  iij  militibus. 

Et  Ranulfum  de  Cunens  de  iij  militibus. 

Et  Hugonem  de  Yerleio  de  ij  militibus. 

Et  Albertum  Francesium  de  ij  militibus. 

Et  Roaldum  Camerarium  de  dimidio  milite. 

Et  Hoelum  de  Middenton9,  [de]  dimidio  milite.10 

Et  Petrum  de  Yaloniis  de  ij  11  militibus. 

Radulfum  12  lilium  flugonis  de  ij  11  militibus. 

Et  Ansegod  Camerarium  de  j  milite. 

Et  Ghorham  de  Cateltorpe  13  de  j  milite. 

Et  ipse  Pincerna  feffavit  xj  milites  in  Kent  in 14 
dominio  suo,  quos  Comes  de  Hou  habet  in  maritagio 
cum  lilia  Comitis  Arundel,  scilicet : 

Alanuni  Pirot  de  vj  militibus.15 

Et  Petrum  de  Caesaris  16  Burgo  de  iij  militibus. 


1  Goddriche,  L.  N.,  where  this 
and  the  next  four  entries  begin 
new  paragraphs. 

*  Atleburc,  L.  N. 

3  Bavet,  L.  N. 

4  Reiyneri,  L.  N. 

5  feofati,  L.  N. 

6feofavit,  L.  N. 

7  Nortfolcia,  L.  N. 

8  Merlai,  L.  N. 


9  Middetone ,  L.  N. 

10  de  dimidio  milite ,  L.  N. 

11  duobus,  L.  N. 

12  et  Radulfum,  L.  N. 

n  Gorham  de  Gatestorp,  L.  N. 

54  de,  L.  N. 

15  Comitis  Arundel  begins  a  new 
paragraph  in  L.  N. 

16  Ceraris,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


399 


N  ORFOLCI A — cont. 

Et  Rogerum  de  Verleio1  de  j  milite. 

Et  Willelmum  de  Milers  2  de  dimidio  milite. 

Et  Rieardum  de  Costentin,3  [de]  dimidio  milite.4 * 


Carta  Willelmi  de  Wormegai. 

H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,  carissimo  domino  suo,  Wil- 
lelmus  de  Wormegai  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Sciatis,  quod  omnes  milites,  quos  de  vobis  teneo  in 
capite,6  feodati  fuerunt,  vel  antecessores  eorum,  armo  et 
die,  quo  H[enricus]  Rex,  avus  vester,  fuit  vivus  et  mor¬ 
tuus,  praeter  Rieardum,  filium  Wace,  quem  p  iter  meus 
feffavit 6  de  dominio  suo  postea,  unde  facit  quartam 
partem  servitii  j  7  militis. 

Et  isti  sunt  milites,  quos  de  vobis  teneo  in  capite8 : — 

Robertus  filius  Willelmi,  qui  tenet  feoda  ij  mi¬ 
litum. 

Robertus  de  Chufreville,9  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Radulfi  de  Elingeham,  [ij  mi¬ 
lites].10 

Robertus  de  Watlingetone,11  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Pulchehardus,  j  militem. 

Alexander  Monachus,12  j  militem. 

Alanus  Ruffus,13  j  militem. 

Gilbertus  de  Torpe,14  j  militem. 

H  amo  filius  Burdun,15  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Luvel,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Nereburcho,16  et  V  illelmus  de  Waltone, 
et  Willelmus  filius  Herlewini,  et  Ricardus  de 


1  Verlio,  L.  N. 

2  Millers,  L.  N. 

3  L.  N.  omits  de. 

4  de  dimidio  milite,  L.  N. 

6  in  capite  teneo,  L.  N. 

6  feodavit,  L.  N. 

7  unius,  L.  N. 

8  in  capite  teneo,  L.  N. 


9  Chiefreville,  L.  N. 

10  Supplied  from  T.  R. 

11  Watlingetone,  L.  N. 

12  Monacus,  L.  N. 

15  Rufus,  L.  N. 

14  Torp,  L.  N. 

10  Burdin,  L.  N. 
i  16  Nereburc,  L.  N. 


400 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


N  ORFOLCIA — cont. 

Tunewrthe,1  j  militem ;  et  Willanus  de  la  Rode  2 
quartam  partem  3  j  militis. 

Summa — xiiij  milites  et  dimidium  [militis]. 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Colecherche.4 

Ego  Willelmus  de  Colecherche 5  debeo  domino  meo 
Henrico  Regi  servitium  dimidii  militis  in  Norfolcia 6 
de  antiquo  ten  emento  a  Conquestu  Anglise.  Nolo  enim, 
ut  servitium  meum  celetur,  quin  fecerim  quod  facere 
debeo  ;  et  homagium  feci  vobis,  6  domine,  et  meo  domino 
Henrico  filio  vestro,  et  vestris  vicecomitibus  servitium 
feci. 


Carta  Huberti  de  Ria. 

Excellentissimo  domino  suo  H[enrico],  Dei  gratia 
illustri  Regi  Anglorum,  Hubert  de  Ria  salutem  et 
fidele  servitium. 

Isti  sunt  milites  de  tenemento  Huberti  de  Ria  feofati 
ex  tempore  Regis  Henrici,  scilicet,  anno  et  die,  quo  ipse 
fuit  vivus  et  mortuus  : — 

Rocelinus  filius  Osberti,  v  milites. 

Alexander  de  Dreitone,7  iiij  milites. 

Ranulfus  de  Carun,  iij  milites. 

Hugo  Comes,  ij  milites  et  dimidium,  scilicet,  feodum 
Huberti  de  Bauvent.8 

Radulfus  de  Bateville,9  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Cesneto,10  j  militem,  scilicet,  feodum 
Hunfridi  de  Matini.11 


1  Timeworthe,  L.  N. 

5  Wilamus  de  la  Roda ,  L.  N. 

3  L.  N.  omits  partem. 

4  Kolecherche,  L.  N. 

4  Cholecherche,  L.  N. 

6  Nortfolcia,  L.  N. 

7  Draitone,  L.  N. 


8  Badvent,  L.  N.,  at  first  written 
Baudevent  in  the  MS.,  and  ude 
subpuncted  for  deletion. 

y  Beteville,  L.  N. 

10  Caisneto,  L.  N. 

11  Humfridi  de  Macent,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


401 


N  ORFOLCI A — cont. 

Rogerus  de  Hercham,1  j  militem.  A.D.  1166. 

Henricus  de  Scaliers,2  dimidium  militem  de  feodo 
H  aberti  de  Ria. 

Ricardus  filius  Rabodae,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Alberti,3  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  Goet,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Valeine  4  vjam  5  partem  j  6  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Herforde,7  vjam  5  partem  militis,  qui 
est  feffatus  8  post  mortem  Regis  H[enrici]. 

Radulfus  de  Bella  Faga,9  v  milites,  scilicet : 10 

In  Stodenham,  iij  milites ; 11  et  in  Assele,  in 
Rotelend,12  ij  milites.11 

Et  super  dominium  accidunt  x  milites  et  vjta  pars 
militis. 

Willelmus 13  Lupellus  tenet  feodum  j  militis  in 
Dokinges.14 


Carta  Walteri  de  15  Bec. 

Walterus  de  Bec,16  tempore  H[enrici]  Regis,  tenuit  de 
ipso  in  capite  tenementum  suum  de  Anglia  per  servitium 
j  militis.  Et  de  xxx  libratis  terrae  de  ipso  tenemento  fuit 
ipse  disseisitus17  tempore  Gwerrae,  quam  Comes  Reginal- 
dus  tenet  in  Cornubia,  et  deforciat 18  illam  Mabilae  de 
Bec.19  Idem  Walterus  de  Bech,20  tempore  Henrici  Regis, 
feffavit 21  Widonem,  patrem  Johannis,  filii  Widonis,  de 


1  Herkeham,  L.  N. 

2  Schaliers,  L.  N. 

3  Albr[icf],  L.  N. 

4  Valaine,  L.  N. 

5  sextam,  L.  N. 

6  ;  omitted  in  L.  N. 

7  Hereford,  L.  N. 

8 feofatus,  L.  N. 

8  Sic  in  MSS. 

‘°  Et,  L.  N. 

11  milites  omitted  in  L.  N. 

12  lloteland,  L.  N. 

13  Villelmus,  L.  N. 

63877. 


1  14  Dockhiges,  L.  N.  This  entry 

is  a  later  addition  in  L.  N.,  but  is 
j  copied  in  the  MS.  as  part  of  the 
|  original  Carta. 

15  del,  L.  N. 

10  L.  N.  adds  pater  Mabilice  de 
Bee. 

17  disseisiatus,  L.  N. 

18  difforciat,  L.  N. 

19  Mabilice  de  Bec,  L.  N. 

20  Bec,  L.  N. 
ixfefavit,  L.  N. 

C  C 


402 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


N  or  polcia — cent. 

A.D.  1166.  tertia  parte  militis  de  dominio  suo,  quam  modo  tenet 
Galfridus,  filius  Petri,  cum  uxore  Adee,  filii  Johannis, 
filii  Widonis.  Praedictum  tenementum  tenet  Mabila  de 
Bec,1  cujus  haeredem  habet  Robertus  filius  Hunfridi.2 

Carta  Roberti  filii  Walteri. 

Robertus  filius  Walteri  tenuit  Mor  et  Fileby3  dono 
Regis  Henrici  anno  et  die,  quo  ipse  Rex  H[enricus]  fuit 
vivus  et  mortuus,  per  servitium  j  4  militis.  Et  Johannes, 
Fo.  lie.  filius  ejus,  post  ipsum;  et  postea  Willehnus.  Et  ipse 
Willelmus  dedit  Galfrido,  Cantuariensi  Archidiacono, 
Mor  per  servitium  j 4  militis,  et  Radulfo  de  Clera 
Fileby 3  per  servitium  j  4  militis. 

Dominus  autem  voluntate  sua  seisivit  in  manu  sua5 
Mor  et  Fileby3;  sed  postea  reddidit  Galfrido  Archi¬ 
diacono  Mor,  quod  debet  servitium  j  militis,  et  retinet  in 
manu  sua  Fileby.  Et  Willehnus  habet,  de  dono  domini 
Regis,  Blieburcum  in  Suthfolcia  per  servitium  j  4  mi¬ 
litis. 


Carta  Odonis  de  Danmartino.6 

H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,  ut  domino  suo  ligio,  Odo  de 
Danmartin  6  salutem. 

Sciatis,  quod  pater  meus  tenuit  de  avo  vestro,  et  de 
vobis  servitium  j  militis,  et  tantum  de  vobis  teneo,  nec 
de  novo  feodo  aliquid  teneo.  Valete. 


1  Mabilia,  L.  N. 

3  Humfridi,  L.  N. 
3  Filebi,  L.  N. 


4  unius,  L.  N. 

5  et  Mor,  L.  N. 

6  Dammar  tin,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


403 


SUTHFOLCIA.  a.d.  nee. 

Carta  militum  honoris  de  Clare.1 

Hamo  Peccatum,  vj  milites.2 3 
3  Hugo  de  Capella,  ij  milites  et  iiijtam  partem.4 
Beatrix  de  Builers,5  xiiij  milites. 

Ricardus  filius  Soeni,  iij  milites  quarterio  minus. 

Philippus  de  Burch  e,6  j  militem. 

Petrus  de  Halst[ede],  ij  milites. 

Ida  de  Beucosdray,7  j  militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Simonis,  xiij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Lambert  8  filius  Roberti,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Maskerel,9  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Mara  et  Ricardus,  frater  ejus,10  j  mi¬ 
litem. 

Silvester  de  Burs,  et  Radulfus  de  Pavilli,11  et  Ste¬ 
phaniis  de  Bellocampo,  j  militem. 

Walterus  filius  Hunfridi,12  v  milites  et  dimidium. 

Paganus  de  Barillis,13  dimidium  militem. 

Comes  Albricus,14  j  militem. 


1  There  is  no  rubric  in  the  O.  R., 
which  begins  with  the  heading  Isti 
stmt  milites  de  honore  Clar,  which 
appears  as  a  sub-heading  in  L.  N. 
as  Isti  sunt  milites  honoris  de  Clare, 
but  is  omitted  in  the  MS.  The 
rubric  in  L.  N.  is  Carta  de  honore 
Clare. 

2  tenet  feoda  vj  militum,  L.  N. 
and  O.  R. 

3  Here  O.  R.  inserts  the  three 

following  entries,  all  of  which  are 

also  found  in  L.  N. : — 

Walterus  filius  Umfridi, 

v  milites  [e£]  dimidium. 

Robertus  filius  Galfridi, 

iiij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Gill[elmus]  de  Baillol,  iiij 

milites. 


The  variations  in  L.  N.  are  as 
follows  :  Humfridi,  Willelmus, 
Boiloil.  The  first  and  third  of 
these  entries  will  be  found  below  in 
the  text  out  of  place. 

4  quarter,  ().  R.  ;  quartam  par¬ 
tem,  L.  N. 

5  Builers,  O.  R. ;  Bulliers,  L.  N. 

6  Bure,  O.  R. 

'  Belcoldrei,  O.  R.  j  Bealcodrai, 
L.  N. 

8  Lambertus,  0.  R. 

9  Mascherel,  O.  R. 

10  suus,  O.  R. 

11  Paveilli,  O.  R. 

12  See  note  3  supra. 

13  Paganus  Barill,  O.  R. 

14  Albericus,  O.  R. 


c  c  2 


404 


UBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


S ITTHFOLCIA — COllt. 

A.u.  1166.  Willelmus  de  Cheisney,1  j  militem. 

Gilbertus  2  filius  Reginaldi,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Kersoner,3  j  militem  et  dimidium. 
Henricus  Canevaz,4 *  j  militem. 

Galfridus  de  Offintone,  dimidium  militem. 

Reginaldus6  filius  Hunfridi,6  dimidium  militem.7 
Radulfus  filius  Adse,  iij  milites  et  ij  8  partes. 

David  de  Prudingtone,9  iijam  10  partem  militis. 
Galfridus  filius  Lesewini,11  iiij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Willelmus  de  Gisn[es],  iij  milites. 

Robertus  de  B rien  curt,  iij  milites. 

Robertus  Foliot,  j  militem,  quem  Rex  cepit  in  manu 
sua. 

Gerardus 12  Giffard,  j  militem. 

Walter  Hautein,13  ij  milites. 

Roger  Putrel,14  iij  partes  militis. 

Robertus  de  Melchel,15  dimidium  militem. 

Bertram,  dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  de  Walbode,16  viij  partem  militis. 

Godefr[idus]  de  Standene,  x  partem  militis. 

Durant  de  xx  solid [atis]  viij  denar[atis]. 

Willelmus  de  Apelgar,  x  partem  militis. 

Petrus  de  Brokel 17  de  xx  solid[atis]  viij  denar[atis]. 
Willelmus  de  Bailloil,  iiij  milites.18 


1  Chesn\_ei\,  O.  R.  ;  Cheisnei, 
L.  N. 

2  Gillebertua,  O.  R. ;  Gilebertus,  | 
L.  N. 

8  Cher  sutler,  O.  R. 

4  Canewaz,  O.  R. ;  Kanevaz, 

L.  N. 

6  Regnaldus,  O.  R. 

6  Umfridi,  O.  R.;  Humfridi, 
L.  N. 

7  O.  R.  omits  militem. 

8  duas,  L.  N. 

9  Pridintone,  O.  R.  and  L.  N. 


10  tertiam,  O.  R.  and  L.  N. 

11  Herlewini,  O.  R.  ;  Lefwini, 
L.  N. 

12  Gerard,  O.  R. 

15  Haltein,  O.  R. 

14  Pultrel,  O.  R. 

15  Melchele,  O.  R.  and  L.  N. 

16  Valbade,  O.  R, ;  Walbade, 
L.  N. 

17  Brochele,  O.  R.,  where  this 
entry  immediately  precedes  Willel¬ 
mus  de  Apelgar. 

13  See  note  3,  previous  page. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


40o 

SUTHFOLCIA — COnt. 

De  novis  feodis  quse  dedit  Comes,  frater  meus. 
Radulfus  Hastfinges],1  ij  2  partes  militis. 

Rogero,  fratri  suo,3  ij  2  partes  militis. 

Roberto  filio  Huberti,4  ij 2  partes  militis  ex  dono 
meo. 

Kadulfus  Brito,  ij  partes  militis  5  ex  dono  meo. 
Ricardus  de  Lucy,6  j  militem. 

Stephanus  de  Turs,  j  militem,  unde  nunquam  ho- 
magium  vel  relevium  vel  servitium  habui. 

Robertus  Traceleu,7  iiij  8  partem  militis  ex  dono  meo. 
Radulfus  de  Clere,9  dimidium  militem  ex  dono  meo. 
Willelmus  de  Hastinges  tenet  xx  libratas  teme 10  et 
j  militem  feodatum,  de  quibus  non  facit  servitium  nisi  11 
j  militis.12 

Rogerus  de  Dalham,  dimidium  militem. 

Reginaldus  de  Cruce,  dimidium  militem  ex  dono 
meo. 

In  Surreia.13 

Willelmus  de  Danmartin,14  xj  milites  et  dimidium. 
Robertus  de  Watte  ville, 15  in  Surreia,16  ix  milites. 

Ii  geram  de  Abernon,17  iiij  milites. 

Willelmus  18  filius  Johannis,  lij  milites. 

Petrus  de  Talleu,19  ij  milites  iiij  20  parte  minus.21 


1  HaUt\_ede],  O.  R. 

2  duas,  L.  N. 

5  Royerus  frater  suus,  O.  R. 

4  Robertus  filius  Huberti,  O.  E. 
and  L.  N. 

5  dimidium  militem,  O.  R.  and 

L.  N. 

6  Luci,  O.  R.  and  L.  N. 

7  Tracelu,  O.  R. 

8  quartam,  L.  N. 

9  Clera,  O.  R. 

10  xx  libratas  terrae  tfiiet,  O.  R. 

11  nisi  servilium,  O.  R. 

12  j  militis  et  dimidii,  O.  R. ;  unius 

militis,  L.  N. 


13  This  heading  is  rubricated  in 
L.  N.  oily. 

14  Donnomurtin,  O.  R.  and  L.  N. 

15  II  ateville,  O.  R. 

16  in  Surreia  omitted  in  O.  R.  and 
L.  N. 

17  Jngelram  de  Abernun,  O.  R. 
and  L.  N. 

18  Gillelmus,  0.  R. ;  Gwillelmus, 

L.  N. 

19  Talewe,  0.  R.  ;  Thai  ewe,  L.  N. 

20  quarta,  L.  N. 

21  minus  quartario,  O.  R. 


406 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


SUTHFOLCIA — COnt. 

Walterus  Haltanus,  ij  milites. 

Robertm  de  Dunstanville,1  j  militem. 

Azo  Oculus2  Latronis,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Aguillun,  iij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Philippus  de  Cheisney,3  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Willelmus  Malet,  ij  milites. 

Bartholomeus,4 5  j  militem. 

Tornas  de  Curteney  6  et  Odo,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  Cocus,  vjam6  partem  militis. 

Mustellus,  vjam  6  partem  militis. 

Michael  de  Turneham,7 8  ixam8  partem  militis. 

Gervasius  de  Cornhulle,9  j  militem. 

De  feo[do]  Comitiss^e  uxoris  me,e. 

Eudo  filius  Ernisii,10  dimidium  militem. 

Alan u s  filius  Roaldi,  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  filius  Geroldi,  dimidium  militem. 

Stephanus  filius  David,  dimidium  militem. 

11  Willelmus  Belet  et  Jordanus  Rasur,  dimidium  mi¬ 
litem. 

Willelmus  de  Hunestone,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Kingestone,  dimidium  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Wilecham,12  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  Angevin,13  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  filius  Johannis,  dimidium  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Grestone,  dimidium  militem. 


1  Dunstanwille ,  0.  R. 

2  Oculis,  0.  R.  and  L.  N. 

3  Chesnei,  0.  R.  ;  Cheisnei, 
L.  N. 

4  Bartolomeus,  0.  R. 

5  Curtun\_ai']i  0.  R. ;  Cor- 
ton  [cm]  ,  L.  N. 

6  vjtam,  O.  R.  and  L.  N. 

*  Torneham,  O.  R.  and  L.  N. 

8  ix,  O.  R. 


9  Chorhulle,  O.  R. 

10  Ernesii,  O.  R.,  where  there  is 
no  distinction  of  paragraphs  for 
this  and  the  following  entries. 

11  Reginaldus  de  Cruce,  dimidium 
militem  is  inserted  here  in  O.  R.,  an 
entry  which  is  omitted  in  the  MS. 
and  L.  N. 

12  Wilekeham,  L.  N. 

13  Angewin,  O.  R. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


407 


SUTHFOLCIA — COnt. 

Osbertus  de  Breteheam,1  dimidium  militem. 
Willelmus  Capra,  dimidium  militem.2 
Willelmus  de  Sancto  Planees,3  dimidium  militem. 
Avenel,  dimidium  militem. 

Rualent  de  Terra  Vasta,  dimidium  militem. 
Galfridus  filius  Petri,  dimidium  militem.4 * 


Carta  Willelmi  Fossard. 

Hoc  [est]  abreviamentum 6  de  feodo  Willelmi  Fos¬ 
sard  de  veteri  feffamento6  in  tempore  H[enrici]  Re¬ 
gis  : 

Willelmus  de  Vescy  7  tenet  feodum  vij  militum. 
Galfridus  de  Valoniis,  feodum  iiij  militum. 

Robertus  de  Bridehale,8  iij  militum. 

Durant9  filius  Willelmi,  ij  militum. 

Rogerus  filius  Rogerum,  ij  militum. 

Rogerus  de  Midlers,10  j  militis. 

Otvel,  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Meisnil,11  j  militis. 

Adam  de  Brus,12  j  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Godefridi,  j  militis. 

Galfridus  Fossard,  j  militis. 

Radulfus  filius  Wimundi,  j  militis. 


1  Breteham,  O.  R.  and  L.  N. 

•  militem  omitted  in  O.  R. 

3  Plane&s,  L.  N. 

*  quartam  partem  militis,  O.  R., 

which  adds,  Hac  est  summa  om¬ 

nium  militum,  vij ’*  et  ix.  L.  N. 

adds,  Hac  est  summa  omnium 

militum,  septem  viginti  et  novem. 

This  total  is  omitted  in  the  MS., 

but  there  is  an  erasure  where  it 

should  have  been  written.  There 
is  a  contemporary  indorsement  on 
the  original  Charter,  Suthf\_olcia'], 

with  a  17th  century  indorsement, 


Feoda  honoris  de  Clare  in  comita¬ 
tibus  Suffolcia  et  Surreice,  and  an 
early  18th  century  note  beneath  it, 
“  One  of  the  originali  certificates  of 
“  which  part  of  the  Red  Book  is 
“  compiled.” 

5  abbreviamentum,  L.  N. 

6  fef amento,  L.  RT. 

7  Vesci,  L.  N. 

8  Briddehale,  L.  N. 

9  Durantus,  L.  N. 

10  Midleres,  L.  N. 

11  Meisnille,  L.  N. 

12  Bruis,  L.  N. 


408 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


SUTHFOLCIA — COTlt. 

A.D.  1166.  Hugo  de  Langetuit,  dimidii  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Metorp,1  dimidii  militis. 

Willelmus  Aguillun,  dimidii  militis. 

Gervasius  filius  Godefr[idi],  dimidii  militis.2 
Isti  sunt  de  antiquo  feodo  de  tempore  H[enrici] 
Regis. 

De  novo  feodo  Everardus  de  Ros  lenet  j  feodum,3 
et  super  dominium  suum,  v  feoda  militum  et  dimi¬ 
dium. 


Carta  Willelmi4  Blundi. 

Gilbertus5  Blundus,  pater  Willelmi  Blundi,  tenuit, 
tempore  H[enrici]  Regis,  et  die  et  anno,  quo  ipse  fuit 
vivus  et  mortuus,  de  ipso,  de  baronia  sua,  feodum  xij  6 
militum  ;  sed  tempore  Gwerrse  fuit  ipse  disseisitus  de 
v  illorum,  quorum  iij  7  sunt  in  manu  domini  Regis  in 
Wiltesira,8  et  de  eisdem  tenent  servitium  ij  9  militum, 
uxor  et  haeredes  Radulfi  filii  Malgeri,  in  Laventone ; 
et  tantum  inde  faciunt.  Feodum  tertii  militis  tenuit 
modo  Adam  de  Spineto,  sed  mortuus  est,  et  de  liiis 
tribus  habet  dominus  Rex  servitium  ij  9  militum  tantum. 
Et  si  Willelmus  Blundus  ea  haberet,  faceret  inde  ser¬ 
vitium  trium  militum,  quia  tantum  debent,  quod  ipse 
paratus  est  monstrare.  De  illis  quinque 10  militibus, 
quartum 11  tenet  Comes  Aibricus  in  Steventone,12  et 
quintum  tenet  Hernicus  filius  Geroldi  Camerarii.13  Et 
de  illo  tenet  illud  Aiwardus,  Pincerna  domini  H[enrici] 
filii  domini  Regis,  in  Stefentone.12  Et  hoc  fuit  do- 


1  Scinetorp,  L.  N. 

2  dimidium  feodum  militis,  L.  N. 

3  unum  feodum,  L.  N.  Here 
follows  the  Charter  of  Albericus  de 
Danmartin  in  L.  N. 

4  Gileberti,  L.  N. 

s  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

6  duodecim,  L.  N. 


7  tres,  L.  N. 

8  In  Wiltescire.  This  is  a  new 
paragraph  in  L.  N. 

9  duorum,  L.  N. 

10  v,  L.  N. 

11  quantum  in  MS.  and  L.  N. 

12  Stevintone,  L.  N. 

13  Com  in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


409 


SUTHFOLCIA — COnt. 

minium  ejus.  De  vij  militibus  qui  remanserunt  Wil-  A.D.  1 1 66. 
lelmo,  tenet  Radulfus  filius  Thonne,  iij  milites  in 
Eisfeld  et  Wicha.  Normannus  de  Langeham,  ij  milites 
in  Langeham  ;  sed  contentio  est  inter  illos  de  xx  solidatis 
terrse,  quas  dicit  Normannus  sibi  deesse  de  ieodo  ij  1 
militum.  Robertus  de  Litletone,  j  militem  in  Litle- 
tone.2  Robertus  de  Ixeworthe,  ij  partes  j 3  militis 
in  Ixeworthe.4 

Et  de  novo  f efiamento 5  tenet : 

Walterus  filius  Gilberti6  quartam  partem  militis  in 
Walesham,7  et  Radulfus  de  Thoboltot,8  quintani  partem 
militis,  unde  illi  acquietant  tertiam  partem  militis,  quse 
erat  super  dominium  Willelmi  Blundi  ad  perficiendum 
vij  milites. 

Carta  Manasseri  de  Danmartin. 

H  [enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,  carissimo  domino  suo, 

Manassei  us  de  Danmartin 9  salutem  et  fidele  servi¬ 
tium. 

Notum  vobis  facio,  quod  vobis  facio  servitium  j 4 
militis  de  dominio  mto,  et  tantum  fecit  pater  meus  in 
tota  vita  sua,  et  ego,  post  iilius  obitum,  tantum  feci  <iie, 
qua  Rex  H[enricus]  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus.  Et  in 
tempore  Gwerrte  de  dio  feodo  dedi  Waltero  de  Cornaco10 
j  11  quartum  militis.  Et  nunc  illam  partem  tenet  Willel- 
mus,  filius  suus,  in  auxilium 12  mihi  illud  servitium 
faciendo.13  Et  de  novo  feffamento 6  nichil  habeo. 


1  duorum ,  L.  N. 

2  Robertus  de  Litleton,  new 
paragraph  in  MS. 

3  Yxewrda,  L.  N. 

4  unius,  L.  N. 

6  fej amento,  L.  N. 

6  Gileberti,  L.  N. 

7  Wulisham,  L.  N. 


8  Tolboltot,  L.  N. 

9  The  r  partly  altered  to  y  in 
MS. ;  Dommartin,  L.  N. 

10  Gornaco,  L.  N. 

11  unum,  L.  N. 

12  auxilio,  L.  N. 

13  faciendum,  L.  N. 


410 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCAUUARIO. 


SUTHFOLCIA — COnt. 

a.d.  1166.  Carta  R.  Comitis  de  Hurtford.1 

Carissimo  domino  suo,  H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,  et 
Duci  Normannorum  et  Aquitannorum,  et  Comiti 2  An- 
degavorum,  R.  Comes  de  Hurford3  salutem. 

Sciatis,  domine,  quod  ego,  postquam  misi  Cartam 
vobis  de  militibus  meis,  recordatus  sum  de  feodo  di¬ 
midii  militis,4  quod  Ysaac  filius  Rabi  tenet  de  novo 
feffamento.5  Y  alete. 


Carta  Rogeri  de  Cheneteswelle.6 

Excellentissimo  domino  suo,  H[enrico]  illustri  Regi 
Anglorum,  Duci  Normannorum  et  Aquitannorum,  et 7 
Comiti  Andegavorum,  Rogerus  de  Cheneteswelle  8  salu¬ 
tem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Sciatis  quod  ego  debeo  vobis  servitium  x  militem. 
Quinque  feffati 9  de  veteri  feffamento.6 

Comes  Albricus  tenet  de  me  feodum  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Chaisneto  de  Norum,  feodum  j  militis. 

Galfridus  filius  Baldewini,  feodum  j  militis,  sed  illud 
seisitum  est  in  manu  vestra,  et  tamen  faciunt  me  facere 
servitium  plenum  10  inde  ad  W ardam  de  Norum. 

Et  Philippus  de  Burgo  tenet  de  me  feodum  j  militis. 

11  Jocelinus  de  Lodnes  tenet  de  me  feodum  j  12  militis  ; 
sed  deforciat 13  michi  dimidium  militem  14  propter  partem 
terrae  suae,  quam  Episcopus  de  Ely 16  tenet,  unde  non 
possum  habere  rectum. 

11  Ego  debeo  vobis  de  dominio  meo  servitium  v  mi¬ 
litum. 


1  Carta  Comitis  Hurforde, 
L.  N.  The  71  is  a  later  insertion 
in  the  MS. 

2  L.  N.  omits  Comiti. 

3  Hurforde,  L.  N. 

4  dimidii  militis  repeated  in 

L.  N. 

*  fef 'amento,  L.  N. 

8  Keneteswelle,  L.  N. 


7  L.  N.  omits  et. 

8  Chenetewelle,  L.  N. 

9  sinit  fefati,  L.  N. 

10  plenum  servitium,  L.  N. 

11  Et  Jocelinus,  L.  N. 

12  unius,  L.  N. 

13  difforciat,  L.  N. 

14  servitium  dimidii  militis,  L.  N. 
16  Help,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


411 


SUTHFOLCIA—  COnt. 

Carta  militum1  honore  de  Eye.  a.d.  ii6fi. 

Milites  tenentes  de  honore  de  Eye. 

Hubert  de  Montechanesi,2  xij  milites. 

Robertus  filius  Rogeri,  x  milites. 

Alanus  de  Witcher[efeld],  x  milites. 

Comes  Rogerus,  v  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Glanville,  ix  milites  et  dimidium. 

Willelmus  de  Huntingeforde,3 4  vij  milites. 

4  Philippus  Golafre,  iiij  milites. 

Robertus  de  Crec,5  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  Blundus,  iij  milites. 

Johannes  de  Boville,  iiij  milites. 

Galfridus  de  Saukeville,  j  militem. 

Hubertus  Gernagan,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Ely,  j  militem. 

Hugo  de  Auberviile,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Willelmus  Bole,  dimidium  militem. 

Hubertus  de  Brome,  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Hompfrid,6  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Beseville,7  Johannes  de  Fosses,8  Robertus 
de  Gosewald,  j  militem. 

Herbert  de  Aleton,9  j  militem. 

Simon  Carpentarius,  j  militem. 

In  Lincolnesira,10  iij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Carta  Albrici  de  Danmartin.11 
Dilecto  domino  suo  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  etc., 

Albricus  de  Danmartin,  ligius  homo  ejus,  salutem. 


1  Milites  tenentes  de  honore  de 
Eye ,  L.  N.,  where  this  is  a  later 
addition  without  any  rubrication. 

2  Hubertus  de  Monte  Chanesi, 
L.  N. 

3  Hontiggeforde,  L.  N. 

4  Two  entries  are  omitted  here 

in  MS. —  Willelmus  de  Coleville, 

iiij  milites.  De  fcodo  Marcel,  vij 

milites  et  dimidium,  L.  N. 


5  Crek,  L.  N. 
n  Hompfridi,  L.  N. 

7  Boseville ,  L.  N. 

8  Fesses,  L.  N. 

9  Herbertus  de  Alenton,  L.  N. 

10  Nicolesira,  L.  N. 

11  In  L.  N.  this  Charter  follows 
that  of  William  Fossard  on  page 
407. 


412 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCAR10. 


SUTHFOLCIA —  COTlt. 

Sciatis  quod  ego,  tempore  Henrici  Regis,  tenui  de  eo 
feodum  j  militis,  quod  de  vobis  modo  teneo,  et  tempore 
Henrici  Regis  feffavi 1  Willelmum  de  Danmartin,  fratrem 
meum,  de  me[o]  dominio  unde  facit  mihi  servitium  j  mi¬ 
litis.  Et  de  novo  feffamento  2  nichil  habeo. 


EBORACSCIRA. 

Carta  Rogeri  Eboracensis  Archiepiscopi.3 

Amantissimo  domino  suo  H[enrico]  Dei  gratia  Regi 
Anglorum,  et  Duci  Normannorum  et  Aquitannoium, 
Comiti 4  Andegavorum,  suus  Rogerus,  eadem  gratia 
Eboracencis  Archiepiscopus,  Apostolicae  sedis  Legatus, 
salutem.  Praecipit  5  dignitas  vestra  omnibus  fidelibus 
vestris,  clericis  et  laicis,  qui  de  vobis  tenent  in  capite 
in  Eboracsira,  ut  mandent  vobis  per  literas  suas, 
extra  sigillum  pendentes,  quot  milites  6  quisquis  7  habeat 
de  veteri  feffamento 2  de  tempore  Regis  [Henrici] 
avi  vestri,  s[cilicet]  de  die  et  anno,  quo  ipse  fuit 
vivus  et  mortuus,  et  quot  habeat  de  novo  feodamento2 
feffatos,8  post  mortem  bonae  memoriae  avi  vestri, 
ejusdem.  Et  quot  feoda  militum  sunt  super  dominium 
uniuscujusque,  et  omnium  illorum  nomina,  tam  de  novo 
feffamento 2  quam  de  veteri  feffatorum,9  sint 10  in  illo 
brevi  scripta,  quia  vultis,  quod  si  aliqui  ibi  sunt,  qui 
vobis  nondum  fecerunt 11  ligantiam,  et  quorum  nomina 
non  sunt  scripta  in  rotulo  vestro,  quod  infra  dominicam 
primam  xl*  ligantiam  vobis  faciant.  Quorum  ego  unus, 


1  fef 'avi,  L.  N. 

2  fef umento,  L.  N. 

3  The  rubric  in  L.  N.  is  :  — 
Carta  domini  H  \_oyeri]  Ebora¬ 
censis  Archiepiscopi  de  militibus 
suis  f e  fatis. 

4  et  Comiti,  L.  N. 


5  Praecepit,  L.  N. 

6  milites  fefatos,  L.  N. 

7  quisque,  L.  N. 

8  fef  ut  os,  L.  N. 

9  fef  atoium,  L.  N. 

10  sunt,  L.  N. 

11  nondum  fecerunt  cobis,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


413 


Eboracscira — cont. 

jussioni  vestras1  per  omnia  subjectus,  cum  omni  dili- A.D.  1166. 
gentia  investigavi  in  tenemento  meo,  prout  brevitas 
temporis  passa  est,  et  praesenti  scripto  vobis  domino 
meo  significo. 

Inprimis  ergo  sciatis,  domine,  quod  super  dominium 
Archiepiscopatus  Eboracensis  nullum  feodum  est  militis, 
quoniam  tot  habemus  f effatos  2  milites,  per  quos  aquie- 
tavimus  omne  servitium,  quod  vobis  debemus,  sicut  et 
predecessores  nostri  fecerunt,  et  plures  etiam  quam  vobis 
debeamus  habemus  3  sicut  ex  praesenti  subscriptione  cog¬ 
noscere  potestis.4  Antecessores  enim  nostri,  non  pro 
necessitate  servitii,  quod  debent,  sed  quia  cognatis5 6  et 
servientibus  suis  providere  volebant,  plures  quam  debe¬ 
bant  Regi  feodaverunt. 

Nomina  autem  feffatorum  3  de  tempore  Henrici  Regis 7 
haec  sunt : — 

Comes  Willelmus  Albemarliae 8  tenet  feodum  iij 9 
militum. 

Henricus  de  Lascy,10  ij  milites. 

Rogerus  de  Monbray,11  iiijtam  12  partem  militis. 

Herbertus  filius  Herberti,13  iij  milites. 

Gilbertus  14  filius  Nigelli,  ij  milites. 

Paganus  de  Landa,  iij  milites. 

Malgiers  15  filius  Hugonis,  j  militem. 

Ricardus  filius  Hugonis,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Bella  Aqua,j  militem. 

Robertus  Morin,  ij  milites. 


1  jussioni  vestra  is  repeated  in 
L.  N. 

2  fefatos,  L.  N. 

3  et  plures  etiam  habemus  quam 
vobis  debeamus,  L.  N. 

4  poteritis ,  L.  N. 

5  congnatis  in  MS. 

6  fefatorum,  L.  N. 

7  Regis  Henrici ,  L.  N. 


8  Willelmus  Comes  Alb  emar  lia, 
L.  N. 

9  trium,  L.  N. 

10  Laci,  L.  N. 

11  Molbrai,  L.  N. 

12  quartam,  L.  N. 

13  Herebertus  filius  Hereberti, 
L.  N. 

14  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

15  Malg[erus~\,  L.  N. 


414 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Eboracscira — cont. 

Gilbertus  filius  Herberti,1  ij  milites. 

Hugo  de  Muschamp,2  ij  milites. 

Walterus  de  Daencurt,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  Mansel,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Wiardi,  dimidium  militem. 

Petrus  de  Perintone,3  dimidium  militem. 

Hugo  de  Verly,4  iiij  milites. 

Willelmus  Cokerel,5  j  militem. 

Thomas  de  Heverhingham,6  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 
Simon  Wahart,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Nowewica,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  Poer,7 8  dimidium  militem. 

Walterus  de  Dentone,  dimidiam  partem  militis. 
Robertus  filius  Hugonis,  iiij tam  s  partem  militis. 
Willelmus  de  Lubbehou,9  dimidium  militem. 
Alexander  de  Neweby,10  iiijor  11  partes  dimidii  mi¬ 
litis. 

Herebertus  de  Merchintone,12  iiijtam  8  partem  mi¬ 
litis. 

Petrus  de  Belingee,  j  militem. 

Oliverus  Angevinus,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Pantone,  j  militem. 

Thomas  filius  Auberti,  iiijtam  8  partem  militis. 

Aliz  de  Molescrot,  iiijtam  8  partem  militis. 

Thomas  filius  Hervei,  j  militem. 

Benedictus  de  Sculecote,  viijam  13  partem  militis. 
Bernardus 14  de  Cotingeh[am],  iiijam  8  partem  mi¬ 
litis. 

Leuredus,  xiijam  15  partem  militis. 


1  Gilebertus  filius  H er eb  er  ti, L.  N. 

2  Muscham,  L.  N. 

3  Peritone,  L.  N. 

4  Verli,  L.  N. 

5  Chokerel,  L.  N. 

6  Everhinham,  L.  N. 

7  Poher,  L.  N. 

8  quartam,  L.  N. 


y  Lubbeuhou,  L.  N. 

10  Niwebi,  L.  N. 

11  quatuor,  L.  N. 

12  Herebertus  de  Merkintone, 
L.  N. 

13  octavam,  L.  N. 

14  Berardus,  L.  N. 

15  xiij,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


415 


Eboracscira — cont. 

Johannes  de  Melsa,  viijam  partem  militis.  a.d.  1166. 

Yvo,1  iiijam  2  partem  militis. 

Serio  de  Pouel,  iijam  3  partem  militis. 

Post  mortem  vero  Regis  H[enrici]  feffati  4  sunt  : — 

Petrus  Pincerna,  de  feodo  dimidii  militis. 

Petrus  Camerarius,  de  xxa5  parte  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Burtone,  de  xija  parte  militis. 

Gervasius  de  Bretone,6  de  iija  parte  militis. 

Et  quoniam,  domine,  ex  hiis  sunt  quidam,  a  quibus 
plus  servitii  exigo,7  quam  ipsi  modo  faciant,  alii  vero 
detinent  quaedam,  quae  ad  mensam  Arcbiepiscopi  et 
dominium,  et  non  ad  ipsos  pertinere  dicuntur,  rogo  sup¬ 
pliciter,  ne  inscriptio  ista  mihi  vel  successoribus  meis 
nocere  possit,  quominus  jus  Ecclesiae  recuperare  possi¬ 
mus,  vel  retinere.  Yaleat  dominus  meus. 

Et  praeter  praedictos  milites  : — 

Turstanus  de  Lechamtone,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Gilbertus  de  Miners,8  iijam  3  partem  militis. 

Werri  de  Marinis,  iijam  3  partem  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Scuras,  dimidiam  partem  militis. 

Willelmus  Pallefrei,9  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Bella  Aqua  et  Ricardus  de  Croche- 
tone,10  iiijtam  2  partem  militis. 


Fo.  118.  Carta  Episcopi  Dunelmensis.11 

Illustri 12  Regi  Anglorum,  Duci  Norm  anni  ae  et  Aqui¬ 
taniae,  Comiti  Andegaviae,  domino  suo  carissimo,  H[ugo] 
Dei  gratia  Dunholmensis  13  Episcopus,  salutem  et  fidele 
servitium. 


1  Ivo,  L.  N. 

2  quartam,  L.  N. 

3  tertiam,  L.  N. 

4  fefati,  L.  N. 

5  vicesima,  L.  N. 

6  Bretton,  L.  N. 

'  exhigo,  L.  N. 


8  Gilebertus  de  Minieres,  L.  N. 

9  Palefrei,  L.  N. 

10  Croketone,  L.  N. 

11  Carta  domini  H[ugonis ]  Dun- 
helmensis  Episcopi,  L.  N. 

12  Henrico  illustri,  L.  N. 

13  Dunhebnensis,  L.  N. 


416 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Eboracscira — COVlK 

A.D.  1166.  Praecepit  nobis,1  domine,  vestra  sublimitas,  quod  literis 
nostris  sigillatis,  extra  sigillum  pendentibus,  vobis  man¬ 
daremus,  quot  milites  feffatos 2  haberemus  de  veteri 
feffamento 3  et  de  novo,  scilicet,  anno  et  die,  quo  rex 
Hfenricus]  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus,  et  de  post  mortem 
ejus.  Nos  vero,  juxta  praeceptum  vestrum,  vobis 
mandamus. 

In  Lincolnescira  [tenent]  de  veteri  feffamento  3  : — 

Ricardus  de  Haia,  feoda  ij  4  militum. 

Hugo  Wac,  feoda  ij  4  militum. 

Hugo  filius  Pincun,5  vij  militum. 

Philippus  de  Kima,  iij  6  militum. 

Galfridus  de  Cadintone,  ij  4  militum. 

In  Eborncsira 7 : — 

Willelmus  de  Percy,8  iiij  milites. 

Willelmus  Fossord,9  j  militem. 

Odardus  de  Cardun,10  dimidium  militem. 

Gilbertus  de  Barduleby,11  dimidium  militem. 

Filius  Roberti  de  Boneville,12  dimidium  militem. 

Gilbertus  Ansard,13  j  militem  ixa14  parte  minus, 
quam  Jordanus  Hairun  tenet. 

Jordanus  de  Hameledone,15  iiijtam  16  partem  j  mi¬ 
litis  de  veteri  feffamento,3  et  tantundem 17  de 
novo. 

Radulfus  Nobilis,  feodum  j  militis  de  novo  ultra 
Thinam.18 


1  nobis  repeated  in  MS. 

2  fefatos,  L.  N. 

3  fef amento,  L,  N. 

4  duorum,  L.  N. 

6  Pinconis  filius,  I/,  N. 

6  trium,  L.  N. 

7  Eboracscira,  L.  N. 

8  Perci,  L.  N. 

9  Fossard,  L.  N. 

10  Hodardus  de  Gardhum,  L.  N. 

11  Gilebertus  de  Bardulebi,  L.  N. 


12  Bonaville,  Ii.  N. 
l  !  Gilebertus  Hansard,  L.  N. 

14  nona,  L.  N. 

15  Hameldone,  L.  N. 

16  quartam,  L.  N. 

17  tatundem  in  MS. 

18  On  an  erasure  in  the  MS.  ; 
Tisam,  L.  N.,  where  Ultra  Tisam 
is  referred  to  the  following  para¬ 
graph. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


417 


Eboracscira — cont. 

In  dominico1  beati  Cuthberti  tenent  de  veteri  A.D.  1166. 
feffamento  2 : — 

Rogerus  de  Coneres,3  feodum  iij  militum. 

Willelmus  de  Vescy,4  iij  militum. 

Robertus  de  Mandeville,5  v  militum. 

Filius  Bertram  de  Bolemer,  v  militum. 

Willelmus  filius  Osberti,  iij  militum. 

Thomas  filius  Willelmi,  ij  militum. 

Romanus  de  Heltone,  iij  militum. 

Elyas 6  de  Eschaulande,  ij  militum  et  ij®  partis 
unius.7 

Rogerus  de  Aldri,  feodum 8  ij  militum. 

Galfridus  filius  Ricardi,  j  militis  et  dimidii. 

Adam  de  Mustiers,  j  militis. 

Hugo  filius  Pincun,9  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Fisburne,  j  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Hoppedene,10  j  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Heplingdene,11  j  militis. 

Radulfus  de  Wircestria,12  j  militis. 

Henricus  de  Papede,13  j  militis. 

Stephanus  de  Bulemer,  j  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Torpe,14  dimidii  militis. 

Radulfus  Haget,  dimidii  militis. 

Filius  Lucae  de 16  Kevelane,  dimidii  militis.16 
Odo  de  Brembe,  iiijtam  17  partem  j  militis. 

Filius  Jlgeri  Burdun,  iijara  18  partem  j  militis. 


1  dominio ,  L.  N. 

2  fef amento,  L.  N. 

3  Apparently  altered  to  Cogneres 
in  MS.,  but  the  reading  is  doubtful. 

4  Vesci,  L.  N. 

5  Mandavill ,  L.  N.  This  and 
the  following  entry  are  transposed 
in  L.  N. 

8  Elias,  L.  N. 

7  partes  in  MS. ;  tertice  partis  j“, 

L.  N. 


8  L.  N.  omits  feodum. 

9  Pinconis,  L.  N. 

10  Heppedene,  L.  N. 

11  Heppligdene,  L.  N. 

12  Wirecestria,  L.  N. 

13  Henricus  Pappede,  L.  N. 

14  Torp,  L.  N. 

13  de  repeated  in  MS. 

16  militem  omitted  in  L.  N. 

17  quartam,  L.  N. 

18  tertiam,  L.  N. 


G3377. 


D  D 


418 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Eboracsci  RA — cont. 


A.D.  1166.  In  eadem  terra  Beati  Cutberti 1  de  novo  tenent 
feffamento 2 : — 


Galfridus  filius  Hunfridi 3  feodum  j  militis. 

Hugo  Burellus,  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Cappella,4  dimidii  militis. 

Gilbertus  de  Laleie,5  dimidii  [militis]. 

Gilbertus 6  Camerarius,  vam  7  partem  j  militis  ;  et 
ex  alia  parte,  xam  partem  j  militis.8 

Johannes  Pincerna,  iijam9  partem  j  10  militis. 

Radulfus  filius  Roberti,  iiijam  11  partem  j  10  militis. 

Super  dominium  vero  nostrum,  de  quo  similiter  man¬ 
dare  praecepistis,  nulla  sunt  feoda  militum,  nec  ulla 
debemus.  Nam  de  hiis  omnibus,12  quos  supra  diximus, 
servitium  x13  militum  tantum  vobis  debemus.  Valeat 
dominus  meus. 

Ricardus  de  Scialis  14  tenet  Husseburne,  de  dono  Wil- 
lelmi  de  Stoteville,  per  servitium  j  militis,  quam  H[en- 
ricus]  pater  eidem  dedit.15 


Carta  Rogeri  de  Munbray.10 


Domino  suo  carissimo  H[enrico],  Dei  gratia  Regi 
Anglorum,  homines  Rogeri  de  Monbray 17  salutem. 
Secundum  praeceptum  vestrum  mandamus  vobis,  quot 


1  Cuthberti,  L.  N. 


9  tertiam,  L.  N. 

10  unius,  L.  N. 

11  quartam,  L.  N. 

12  omnibus  etiam,  L.  N, 

13  decem,  L.  N. 

14  Scalis,  L.  N.  The  i  is  a  later 


2  ftf amento,  L.  N.  A  new 
paragraph  is  begun  with  De  novo 
in  the  MS. ;  in  eadem  terra  Beaii 
Cuthberti  being  wrongly  referied 
to  the  preceding  entry. 


3  Ernulfi  filius,  L.  N. 

4  Capella,  L.  N. 

5  Gileberlus  de  La  Leia,  L.  N. 

6  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

7  quintam,  L.  N. 

8  x  partem  unius  militis,  L.  N. 


interlineation  in  MS. 

15  This  entry  is  a  later  addition 


in  L.  N. 

10  Carta  de  feodis  Rogeri  de 


Moubrai,  L.  N. 

17  Moubrai,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


419 


Eboracscira — cont. 

milites  dominus  noster  Rogerus  de  Munbray1  habet  A.D.  liec. 
de  antiquo  feodo  et  novo. 

Rogerus  de  Fiam  ville 2  tenet  feoda  viij  militum 
et  dimidii. 

Robertus  de  Stoteville,3  viij  militum. 

Willelmus  Tisun,  feoda  xv  militum. 

Willelmus  Haket,4  ij  militum. 

Walterus  de  Riparia,  j  militis. 

Adam  Luvel,  j  militis. 

Walterus  filius  Asketin,j  militis. 

Rogerus  de  Sancto  Martino,  ij  5  militum. 

Willelmus  de  Cainesburgo,6  ij  militum. 

Walterus  de  Campville,7  ix  militum. 

Thomas  de  Woppenb[er]i,8  v  militum. 

Walterus  de  Wileng,9  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Criselee,10  j  militis. 

Henricus  de  Hardene,11  j  militis. 

Radulfus  de  Queningbune,12  ij  militum. 

Hugo  de  Ranpane,13  j  militis. 

Sanson  Ta -hei,  j  militis. 

Fo.  1 1 8  d.  Simon  filius  Simonis,  dimidii  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Reimes,  j  militis. 

Elyas  de  Albaineio,14  j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Wiville,  v  militum. 

Ricardus  de  Moreville,  v  militum. 

Hugo  Malherbe,  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Dayville,15  iiij  militum. 


1  Molbrai,  L.  N. 

2  Flammaville,  L.  N. 

3  Stuteville,  L.  N. 

4  Haget,  L.  N. 

5  duorum,  L.  N. 

6  Gainesburgo,  L.  N. 

I  Camville ,  L.  N.  The  p  is  in- 

terlineated  in  the  MS. 


8  Wppenb[er]i,  L.  N.  The  o 
is  interi  i  ueated  in  the  MS. 

9  Wisega,  L.  N. 

10  Griselee,  L.  N. 

11  A  r dene,  L.  N. 

12  Quenigburch,  L.  N. 

13  Rampane,  L.  N. 

14  Helicis  de  Abbaneio,  L.  N. 

15  Dauville,  L.  N. 

D  D  2 


420 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Eboracscira — cont. 

A.D.  1 1G6.  Turstanus  de  Muntfort,1  iij  milites  et  iij  2  partes 
militis. 

Willelmus  de  Moles,  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Condeio,  dimidium  militem. 

Rogerus  filius  Perces,3  j  militem. 

Rogerus  filius  Galfridi  et  Radulfus  filius  Aldelin, 
dimidium  militem. 

Rogerus  Prince,  iijam4  partem  militis. 

Robertus  Dapifer,  dimidium  militem. 

Hubertus  filius  Ricardi,  iijam4  part,em  militis. 
Ricardus  de  Trusselai,6  iijam  4  partem  militis. 
Ricardus  Gramaticus,6  iiijam  7  partem  j  militis. 
Willelmus  de  Bolemer,8  j  militem. 

Tot  habuit  milites  feodatos  in  tempore  H[enrici] 
Regis,  scilicet,  quater  viginti  et  vi ij, 9  scilicet,10  lx  de 
antiquo  feodo.  Et  xx  et  viij  11  istorum  feodavit  Nigellus 
de  Albeneio 12  de  dominio  suo. 

Et  de  novo  feodo  13 : — 

Willelmus  de  Vescy,14  ij  15  milites. 

Robertus  de  Stoteville,16  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Daumville,17  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Lancastria,  ij  milites. 

Thomas  de  Coleville,  j  militem. 

Albricus  Comes,  j  militem.18 
Robertus  de  Busci,  j  militem.18 
Hamo  Berler,  j  feodum  militis.19 
Rogerus  de  Carletone,20  dimidium  feodum. 


I  Munfort,  L.  N. 

*  tres ,  L.  N. 

3  Parces,  L.  N. 

4  tertiam,  L.  N. 

6  Crosseslai,  L.  N. 

6  Grammaticus,  L.  N. 

7  quartam,  L.  N. 

8  Bolemer,  L.  N. 

9  quater  xx  et  viij'0,  L.  N. 

10  videlicet,  L.  N. 

II  xx>'  octo,  L.  N. 


12  Albaneio,  L.  N. 

13  Et  de  novo  feodo  not  a  new 
paragraph  in  L.  N. 

14  Vesci,  L.  N. 

13  duos,  L.  N. 

16  Stuteville,  L.  N. 

17  Danville,  L.  N. 

18 feodum,  L.  N. 

19  Harnon  Beler,j  feodum,  L.  N. 

20  Charletone,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


421 


Eboracscira — cont. 

Willelmus  Grain  de  Or,1  dimidium  feodum. 

Warinus  filius  Simonis,  ij  2  partes  j  militis.3 

Hii  sunt  de  novo  feodo  Rogeri  de  Monbrai,4 *  post 
mortem  H[enrici]  Regis,  videlicet,  xj  feoda  militum,  et 
tres  partes  feodi  j  6  militis. 

Carta  Stephani  filii  Herberti  6  Camerarii. 

Carissimo  domino  suo  H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,  Ste- 
phanus  filius  Herberti  6  Camerarii  salutem. 

Sciatis,  quod  teneo  de  vobis  in  capite  feodum  j  militis, 
et  inde  feodatus7  est  Willelmus  de  Scuris  de  feodo  j  mi¬ 
litis  de  veteri  feflamento.8 

Postea  feffatus  9  inde  fuit  de  dominio  meo  Willelmus 
de  Berville  de  vja  10  parte  militis,  scilicet,  de  veteri 
feffamento.8  De  novo  vero  feffamento,8  post  mortem 
H[enrici]  Regis,  feffatus 7  est  de  dominio  meo  Thomas 
Clericus  de  Wichetona  de  xiija  parte  militis. 

Remanet  autem  in  dominio  meo  j  carucata  11  terrae, 
et  vj  masurae  super  praedictum  servitium  militis  quod 
vobis  debeo. 


Carta  Henrici  de  Lascy.12 

H[enricus]  de  Lascy 12  debuit  in  servitio  Regis  de  veteri 
feodo  Pontis  Fracti,  lx  milites  feffatos,13  de  quibus  Wido 
de  Lanval  habet  xx4i  milites,  excepto  j  et  dimidium,  et 
hoc  non  remansit  nisi  in  eo  et  suis. 

Isti  sunt  milites,  qui  tenent  de  Widone  de  Lanval, 
scilicet : — 

Foliot,  iij  milites. 


1  Grain  dorge,  L.  N. 

2  duas,  L.  N. 

3  feodi,  L.  N. 

4  Molbrai,  L.  N. 

6  unius,  L.  N. 

6  Hereberti,  L.  N. 

7  frfatus,  L.  N. 


8  feJ amento,  L.  N. 

9  feofatus,  L.  N. 

10  sexta,  L.  N. 

11  carrucata,  L.  N. 

12  Laci,  L.  N. 

13  fefatos,  L.  N. 


A. 


422 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCAR10. 


Eboracscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Willelmus  de  Fristone,  iij  milites. 

Simon  de  Lacelles,  ij  milites. 

Ranulfus  filius  Costant[ini]  et  Ricardus  de  Dun¬ 
ham,1  ij  milites. 

Robertas  filius  Ricardi,  dimidium  militem. 

Ilelto  de  Rovecestria,  iiij  milites. 

Oto  de  Tilly,2  ij  milites. 

Chamus 8  de  Clintone,  j  militem. 

Simon  de  Scorchebof,4  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  Wall[ensis],  dimidium  militem. 

Isti  sunt  milites  xl,  qui  remanent  in  manu  Henrici  de 
Lascy,5  scilicet : — 

Jordanus  Foliot,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  Pictavensis,  iij  milites.6 
Henricus  Wal[ensis],  iij  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Reinerville,  iiij  milites. 

Oto  de  Tilly,2  j  militem. 

Rogerus  filius  Alvredi,  iij  milites. 

Herber  tus  7  de  Arebis,  ij  milites. 

Simon  Scorchebof,8  j  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Tilli,  j  militem. 

Robertus  Venator,  dimidium  militem. 

Rogerus  de  Scirtorpe,9  iiijam  10  partem  militis. 

Helto  de  Rovecestria,  j  militem. 

Adam  de  Wenreville,11  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Prestone,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Feresham,  j  militem. 

Gilbertus  de  Sinthale,12  dimidium  militem. 

Henricus  de  Dai,  et  Radulfus  frater  ejus,  ct  Petrus 


1  Duneham,  L.  N. 

2  Otho  dc  Tilli,  L.  N. 

3  Caluimus,  L.  N. 

4  Scorchebocf,  L.  N. 

5  Laci,  L.  N. 

6  iij  milites  repeated  iu  L.  N. 

7  Ilerebcrtus,  L.  N. 


8  Scorchebocf,  L.  N. 

9  Scinethorp ,  L.  N. 

10  quartam,  L.  N. 

11  Apparently  altered  to  Wcmc- 
ville  in  a  later  hand ;  Wcnereville, 
L.  N. 

12  Snithale,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


423 


Eboracscira — cont. 

de  Toulestone  tenent  duo  feoda  militum  inter  eos  A.D.  1166. 
aeque  partita, 

Radulfus  de  Insula,  ij  1  milites. 

Willelmus  de  Friestane,  ij  milites. 

Simon  de  Lacellis,  j  militem. 

Hunfridus  2  de  Ruala,  dimidium  militem. 

Robertus  de  Stapeltone,  ij  milites. 

Willelmus  filius  Aldelin,  j  militem. 

Hamelin,  j  militem. 

Hamelin  de  Ria,  j  militem. 

Heodo  de  Longvilliers,3  j  militem. 

Ricardus  Gramaticus,  j  militem. 

Jelebertus  Painel,  j  militem. 

Et  praeter  praenominatos  milites,  habet  Henricus  de 
Lascy  4 5  istos  milites,  quos  ipse  et  antecessores  sui  feoda- 
verunt,  et  cum  dominio  6  suo  serviunt,  scilicet : — 

Walterus  de  Sumerville,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Scotus,6  dimidium  militem. 

Sanson  de  Alretone,7  dimidium  militem. 

Paganus  filius  Buchardi,8  dimidium  militem. 

Adam  de  Prestone,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Vavassur,9  iijamio  partem  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Novaville,11  viij  milites,  exceptis  xx 
solidis,  quos  annuatim  reddit  Henricus  de 
Lascy.4 

Robertus  filius  Lewini,12  vam13  partem  dimidii 
militis. 

Eborardus,  frater  ejus,  dimidium  militem. 

Elyas  filius  Essulfi,14  iiijam  15  partem  militis. 


1  duos,  L.  N. 

2  Humfridus,  L.  N. 

3  Apparently  altered  in  the  MS. ; 
Leguiliers,  L.  N. 

4  Laci,  L.  N. 

5  dominico,  L.  N. 

6  Scottus,  L.  N. 

7  On  an  erasure  in  MS. 


8  Burchardi,  L.  N. 

9  Vavasur,  L.  N. 

10  tertiam,  L.  N. 

11  Nova  villa,  L.  N. 

12  Lefiwini,  L .  N. 

13  quintam,  L.  N. 

14  Elias  filius  Assulfi,  L.  N, 

15  quartam,  L.  N. 


424  LIRER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 

Eboracscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Osbertus  Archidiaconus,  dimidium  militem. 

Walterus  Bardulf,  iiijaml  partem  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Geroldi,  iijam  2  partem  militis. 

Galfridus  de  Malquency,1 2 3 4  vam  4  partem  militis. 

Adam  filius  Petri,  j  militem. 

Radulfus  filius  Nicholai,5  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Tanga,  iiijam  partem  militis.6 

Filius  Petri  de  Isla,  iiijam  1  partem  militis. 

Robertus  de  Gant,  j  militem  et  dimidium. 

Ista  sunt  feoda,  qua;  ceciderunt  in  manu  H[enrici] 
de  Lascy,7 8  scilicet  iiijor  8  excepta  iiija  parte  j  feodi. 
Et  manifestum  est,  quod  Templarii  tenent  feodum 
j  militis,  et  monachi  de  Ponte  Fracto  feodum  j  militis.9 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Percy.10 

Henrico  Regi  serenissimo,  domino  suo  carissimo,  Wil¬ 
lelmus  de  Percy  10  salutem  et  fidelia  servitia. 

Isti  sunt  milites  qui  feodati 11  sunt  de  meo  feodo,  tam 
de  veteri  quam  de  novo : —  . 

Robertus  Dapifer,  de  iij 12  militibus. 

Robertus  filius  Picot,  de  iij  12  militibus. 

Willelmus  Le  Yavasur,  de  ij  13  militibus. 

Willelmus  filius  Hugonis,  de  j  milite. 

Willelmus  de  Novaville,  de  j  milite. 

Gilbertus  14  de  Archis,  de  j  milite. 

Radulfus  de  Monde  ville, 15  de  j  milite. 


1  quartam,  L.  N. 

2  tertiam,  L.  N. 

3  Malquenci,  L.  N. 

4  quintam,  L.  N. 

5  Nicolai,  L.  N. 

6  quartam  militis,  L.  N. 

7  Laci,  L.  N. 

8  quatuor ,  L.  N. 

9  Ponte  Fracto,  L.  N.  The 

(following  note  appears  in  L.  N, 


faintly  written  in  plummet: — Idem 
de  j  milite  de  ...  de  feffamento 
Regis  Johannis. 

10  Perci,  L.  N. 

11  infeodati,  L.  N. 

12  tribus,  L.  N. 

13  duobus,  L.  N. 

14  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

15  Mundaville,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO; 


425 


Eboracscira — cont. 

Galfridus  de  Valon[iis],  de  j  milite.  A.D.  1168 

Thomas  Dairel,  de  j  milite. 

Wdlelmus  Arundel,  de  j  milite. 

Hugo  Foliot,  de  j  milite. 

Robertus  filius  Roberti,  de  j  milite. 

Robertus  de  Hallai,  de  j  milite. 

Stephanus  Camerarius,  de  ij  militibus. 

Ricardus  de  Weitone,  de  j  milite. 

Willelmus  de  Argentein,1 II  de  j  milite. 

Ilgerus  filius  Roeri,  de  j  milite. 

Willelmus  de  Humes,2  de  j  milite. 

Willelmus  filius  Ricardi  et  Walterus  filius  Radulfi, 
de  j  milite. 

Durant 3  de  Chaintone,  et  Ricardus  filius  An- 
godi,4  et  Galfridus  filius  Roberti,  et  Teobaldus 5 
filius  Pagani,  et  Gilbertus6  de  Archis,  de  j  mi¬ 
lite. 

Adam  filius  Normanni  et  Henricus  filius  Ypoliti, 
de  j  milite. 

Willelmus  filius  Roberti  et  Petrus  filius  Grente,  de 
j  milite. 

Isti  sunt  milites  de  novo  feodati,  scilicet,  post  mortem 
Regis  H[enrici]  de  dominio  meo  : — 

Hugo  de  Poville,  de  dimidio  milite. 

Nigellus  de  Stoclelde,7  de  dimidio  milite. 

Ricardus  filius  Osberti,  de  dimidio  milite.8 
Gilbertus9  filius  Fulcheri,  de  dimidio  milite. 

Petrus  de  Mihausa,  de  tribus  partibus  j  militis.10' 

Hugo  filius  Fulcheri,  de  iiija  11  parte  militis. 

Robertus  Dapifer,  de  dimidio  milite. 


1  Argcntoein,  L.  N. 

2  Jlurnez,  L.  N. 

3  Durantus,  L.  N. 

*  Angod,  L.  N. 

5  TheobalduK ,  L.  N. 

6  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 


I  Stochelde,  L.  N. 

8  This  entry  is  repeated  in  L.  N. 

9  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

10  L.  N.  omits  j. 

II  quarta,  L.  N. 


426 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


A.D. 1166. 


Fo.  119  d. 


Eboracscira—  cont. 

Gilbertus  1 2 3  de  Archis,  de  dimidio  milite  et  de  iiija  2 
parte  militis. 

Nigellus  de  Plintone,  de  j  milite. 

Baldewinus  filius  Radulfi,  de  j  milite,  et  de  iiija2 
parte,  et  de  xa  3  parte. 

Durant  filius  Joelin,4  et  Theobaldus5  filius  Oviet, 
Walterus  filius  Ricardi,  Joilinus  de  Aichatune, 
Sweinus  6  Child,  W illelmus,  omnes  isti  de  j 7  milite. 

Robertus  de  Hallai,  de  dimidio  milite. 

Ragnerus 8  Flandrigena,  et  Petrus  de  Miausa,  et  Wil- 
lelmus  de  Arundel,  et  Willelmus  Martin,  omnes 
isti  de  tertia  parte  militis. 

Haec  est  summa  de  novo  feodatorum — viij  milites, 
et  tertia  pars  militis,  et  xa  pars  militis  de  dominio 
meo. 


Carta  Anfridi  de  Chanci.9 

Notum  sit,  quod  tenura  Anfridi  de  Chanci9  talis  est, 
quod  isti  in  tempore  Henrici  Regis  feodati  sunt,10 
scilicet : — 

Galfridus  de  Gugetorp,11  de  j  milite. 

Thomas  filius  Roberti,  de  j  milite. 

Galfridus  de  Rillum,  de  j  milite. 

Thomas  filius  Wilnoth,  Petrus  filius  Grent,  Serio  de 
Joletorp,12  isti  tres  tenent  feodum  j  militis. 

Ille  praedictus  Anfridus  13  tenet  feodum  j  militis  in 
dominio  suo,  nec  magis  in  tempore  Regis  habuit,  nec 
modo  habet,  nec  de  novo  feffamento  14  aliquem  habuit.15 


1  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

2  quarta,  L.  N. 

3  decima,  L.  N. 

4  Durantus  filius  Joilin,  L.  N. 

5  Teobaldus,  L.  N. 

6  Swanus,  L.  N. 

7  uno,  L.  N. 

8  Raignerus,  L.  N. 


9  Amfridi  de  Canci,  L.  N. 

10  fuerunt,  L.  N. 

11  Gtiggetorp,  L.  N. 

12  Jolletorp,  L.  N. 

13  Amfridus,  L.  N. 

14  fef amento,  L.  N. 

15  h\_abe~\t,  L.  N. 


LIBEIl  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


427 


,  Eboracscira — cont. 

Carta  Willelmi  de  Yescy.1 

Willelmus  de  Yescy1  tenet  feodum  xx  militum  de 
Rege  de  veteri  feffamento,2  quod  pater  suus  tenuit  anno 
et  die,  quo3  Rex  H[enricus]  4  fuit  vivus  et  mortuus, 
et  hii  tenent  illa  feoda,  scilicet : — 

Hervicus  6  Coleman  tenet  j  militem. 

Walkelin  de  Normantone,  j  militem. 

Robertus  filius  Guivmer,  j  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Lascellis,6  ij  milites. 

Roald 7  et  Rogerus  filius  Alvredi,  j  militem. 

Baldric  et  Rogerus  Bacin,8  j  militem. 

Willelmus  Tisun,  ij  milites. 

Ernaldus  de  Morwic,9  j  militem. 

Adam  Ribaut,10  j  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Roc,  j  militem. 

Johannes  filius  Odard,11  j  militem. 

Walterus  Bateil,12  Radulfus  filius  Main,13  j  mi¬ 
litem. 

Simon  filius  Ernald 14  de  Luere,  j  militem. 

Odonel 16  de  Dunframville,  ij  milites. 

Robertus  Bundin,  j  militem. 

Vicesimum  feodum  est  Bodlei 16  et  Spelestan,  quod 
Rex  tenet  in  manu  sua,  unde  Willelmus  praedictus  habet 
Cartam  H[enrici]  Regis,  avi  nostri  Regis. 

Prajterea,  Yvo  de  Yescy1  feodavit  ij 17  milites  et 
tertiam  partem  18  de  suo  dominio,  scilicet : — 

Willelmum  filium  Huardi,  de  feodo  j  militis. 


1  Vesci,  L.  N. 

5  fef amento,  L.  N. 

3  qua,  L.  N. 

4  Henricus  Rex,  L.  N. 
s  Herevicus,  L.  N. 

f*  Lucellis,  L.  N. 

7  Roalt,  L.  N. 

8  Racine,  L.  IJ. 

9  Morcwic,  L.  N. 


19  Ribalt,  L.  N. 

11  Odardi,  L.  N. 

12  Bataile,  L.  N. 

»3  Maini,  L.  N. 

14  Ernaldi,  L.  N. 

15  Odenel,  L.  N. 

16  Boddlei,  L.  N. 

17  duos,  L.  N. 

13  tertiani  partem  militis,  L.  N 


428 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Eboracscira — cont , 

A.D.  1166.  Thomam  de  Watwode,  de  j  milite. 

Johannes  Burdun,  de  iija  1  parte  j  militis. 
Eustachius1 2  filius  Johannis  feodavit  duos  milites, 
scilicet :  — 

Willelmutn  Le  Latimer,  de  j  milite. 

Mathaeum  de  Leun,3  de  dimidio  milite. 

Ricardum  Mautalent,4  de  dimidio  milite. 

Willelmus  de  Vescy5  feodavit  duos  milites,  sci¬ 
licet  : — 

Willelmum  de  Turberville,  de  j  milite. 

Galfridum  de  Wall[ibus],6  de  dimidio  milite. 
Radulfum  filium  Rogeri,  de  dimidio  milite. 

Et  Aiulf  tenet  vij  7  partem  militis. 

Carta  Bertram  de  Bulimer,  per  David 
Lardinarium.8 

Venerabili  domino  suo  et  illustri  Regi  Anglorum,9 
David  Lardarius  suus  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 
Domine,  litteris 10  istis  vobis  notifico,  quot  milites 
Bertram  Bolemer 11  de  vestro  feodo  habuit,  scilicet : — 
Aschetinus  filius  Gospatrici,  feodum  j  militis  tem¬ 
pore  Regis  H[enrici]  avi  vestri,  et  modo  simi¬ 
liter.  Idem  praedictus  B[ertram]  tenuit  Suttone 
per  feodum  j  militis  tempore  avi  vestri,  et  postea 
dedit  praedictum  feodum  de  Suttone  Galfrido  de 
Valon[iis]  per  idem  12  servitium,  j  militis. 


1  tertia,  L.  N. 

2  Eustacius.  L.  N. 

3  Leuin,  L.  N. 

+  Multalent,  L.  N. 

®  Vesci,  L.  N. 

6  Vallibus,  L.  N. 

7  septimam,  L.  N. 

8  The  rubric  in  L.  N.  runs  : 

Carta  Henrici  David  Lardarii. 

The  scribe  evidently  used  the 


writer’s  name  in  the  rubric,  and 
in  so  doing  inserted  the  King’s 
name  which  immediately  precedes 
it. 

9  Regi  Anglorum  Henricus, 
L.  N. 

10  literis,  L.  N. 

11  dp  Dolem  [er] ,  L.  N. 

12  eundem,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


429 


Eboracscira — cont. 

Radulfus  de  Wiltone,  feodum  dimidii  militis  tempore  A.n.  li&c. 
avi  vestri,  et  modo  similiter.  Et  ego  David  Lardarius, 
quintam  partem  militis  tempore  avi  vestii,  et  modo 
similiter.  Willelmus  Hakget,1 * *  vjtam  3  partem  militis 
tempore  avi  vestri,  et  modo  similiter.  Hugo  de  Nor- 
tone,  xam  3  partem  militis  tempore  avi  vestri,  et  modo 
similiter. 

Mathseus  de  Punchardune,4 5  vam5  partem  militis  de 
novo  feffamento,6  de  suo  autem  dominio  nullum  debet 
servitium. 


Carta  Roberti  de  Stuteville. 

H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,  ut  domino  suo  carissimo, 
Robertus  de  Stuteville  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Domine  carissime,  sciatis,  hos  esse  feodos 7  meorum 
militum,  videlicet,  de  antiquo  feodo  : — 

Robertus  Murdac  tenet  feodum  j  militis. 

Matildis  filius  Hugonis  Comin,8  j  feodum. 

Osmundus  de  Stuteville,  ij  9  partes  j  feodi. 

Ricardus  Croere,10  iijam  11  partem  j  militis.12 

Galfridus  Fossard,  j  feodum. 

Adam  de  Bolteby,13  j  feodum. 

Petrus  de  Cordanville,  j  feodum. 

Et  ego  ipse  teneo  ij  feoda  in  manu  mea  de  antiquo 
feodo.  Et  de  novo  feffamento,6  Rogerus  de  Cnapetot, 
xj  bovatas  de  dominio  meo  pro  viija  14  parte  j  mi¬ 
litis. 


1  Hayet,  L.  N.  The  k  is  a  later 
insertion  in  MS. 

sextam,  L  N. 

1  decimam,  L.  N. 

*  Puntchardun,  L.  N. 

5  quintam,  L.  N. 

6  fef amento,  L.  N. 

7  Sic  in  MS. 


8  Camin,  L.  N. 

9  duas,  L.  N. 

10  Cruere,  L.  N. 

11  tertiam,  L.  N. 

12  feodi,  L.  N. 

13  Boltebi,  L.  N. 

14  octava,  L.  N. 


430 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Eboracscira — cont. 


l,d*  1166‘  Carta  Willelmi  Paganelli. 

F°.  120. 

H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,  domino  suo  carissimo, 
Willelmus  Paganellus  salutem  et  fidelia  servitia. 

Isti  sunt  milites,  qui  feodati  sunt  de  feodo  meo,  scili¬ 
cet,  de  veteri  feffamento 1 : — 

Robertus  de  Mellil,2  de  iij  militibus  et  dimidio. 

Mascy  de  Curcy,3  de  j  milite  et  dimidio. 

Fulco  Paganellus,  de  j  milite. 

Robertus  de  Brideshale,4  de  j  milite. 

Ricardus  de  Luvetot,5  de  v  militibus. 

Jordanus  Painel,  de  j  milite. 

Radulfus  de  Tirnisco  et  Hugo  de  Barville,6  de  j  mi¬ 
lite. 

De  dominio  meo  servio  pro  dimidio  milite. 

De  dominio  meo  de  Tugringe  7  et  de  Soka  servio  pro 
dimidio  milite. 

Sciatis,  domine,  quod  non  habeo  aliquem  militem  de 
novo  feffamento,1  nisi  Jordanum  Paganellum  de  dimidio 
milite,  et  Willelmum  de  Widet[one],  et  Rogerum  filium 
Petri,  et  Robertum  de  Alteriva,  de  dimidio  milite. 


Carta  de  feodo  de  Sciptone.8 

De  feodo  de  Sciptone,  quod  tenet  Alexander  filius 
Gerini,  fuerunt  hii  milites  feffati 9  in  tempore  Regis 
H[enrici]. 

Willelmus  de  Sanderville  10  tenet  feoda  iiijor  militum. 
Et  quintum  feodum  habet  Gervasius  de  Sanderville,10 
unde  non  potest  habere  servitium. 


1  fefamento,  L.  N. 

2  Melill,  L.  N. 

3  Masci  de  Curci,  L.  N. 

4  Briddcsale,  L.  N. 

5  Lovetot,  L.  N. 

6  Iiarevitle,  L.  N. 


7  Cugrig,  L.  N. 

8  L.  N.  adds  quod  tenet  Alex¬ 
ander  filius  Gerini. 

9feofati,  L.  N. 

10  The  r  is  a  later  interlineation 
in  MS. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


431 


Eboracscira — cont. 

Johannes  de  Argenton,1  ij  2  feoda  militum.  A.d.  i  166. 

Radulfus  de  Cailly,3  ij  2  feoda  militum. 

Willelmus  filius  Clerenbaud,4  j  feodum  militis  et 
dimidium. 

Willelmus  Malus  Leporarius,  Stephanus  de  Bilemer,5 
j  feodum. 

Willelmus  Vavassur,6  dimidium  militem.7 

Haec  xij  8  feoda  sunt  de  antiquo  feffamento.9 

De  eodem  feodo  de  Sciptone,  quod  tenet  Alexander 
filius  Gerini,  hii  milites,  post  obitum  Regis  H[enrici], 
infra  Gwerram,10  sunt  de  dominio  meo  feodati.11 

Haeredes  Adre  filii  Swein,12  tenent  feodum  j  militis. 

Reinerus  Flemingus, 13  feodum  j  militis 14  et  dimidii. 

Hervius  15  de  Keineville,16  dimidium  feodum  militis. 

Osbertus  Archidiaconus  tenet  xj  carucatas 17  terrae, 
unde  xiiij  carucatae  faciunt  feodum  militis. 

Walterus  filius  Willelmi,  x  carucatas,  unde  xiiij 
faciunt  feodum  militis. 

Petrus  de  Martun,  xij  carucatas,  unde  xiiij  faciunt 
feodum  militis. 

Rogerus  Tempestas,  iij  carucatas  et  ij  bovatas,  unde 
xiiij  faciunt  feodum  militis. 

Uctredus  de  Cunegestone,  vj  carucatas,  unde  xiiij 
faciunt  feodum  militis. 

Simon  de  Munthalt,  iij  carucatas. 

Rogerus  de  Favintone,  iiij  carucatas  et  dimidiam. 

Waltheus  filius  Gamel,  iij  carucatas. 

Ricardus  filius  Ricardi,  iij  [carucatas]. 


1  Argentoein,  L.  N. 

2  duo,  L.  N. 

3  Chailli,  L.  N. 

4  Clerenbald,  L.  N. 

5  Bulemer,  L  N. 

6  Vavasur,  L.  N. 

7  feodum,  L.  N. 

8  duodecim,  L.  N. 

9  fef amento,  L.  N. 


10  guerram,  L.  N. 

11  de  dominio  feodati,  L.  N. 

12  Swani,  L.  N. 

13  Flemengus,  L.  N. 

14  j  feodum  militis,  L.  N. 

15  Hercveius,  L.  N. 
lG  Reineville,  L.  N. 

17  eam,  cata  ana  cases  passim 
in  L.  N. 


432 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Eboracscira — cont. 

A.D.  neo.  Helfco  filius  Willelmi  de  Arches,  iij  carucatas.1 

Rogerus  Mire,2  j  carucatam. 

Edwardus  Camerarius,  x  bovatas  teme,  unde  xiiij 
carucatae  faciunt  militem. 

Ricardus  de  Broctone,  j  carucatam. 

Galfridus  Morin,  j  carucatam. 

Walterus  Arei,  j  carucatam  terrae,  unde  xiiij  caru- 
catae  faciunt  militem.3 

Hugo,  nepos  Episcopi,  dimidiam  carucatam  unde 
xiiij  carucatae  faciunt  militem.4 

Radulfus5  Paileue,  dimidiam  carucatam  unde  xiiij 
carucatae  faciunt  militem.6 

Haec 7  viij  feoda  militum  sunt  de  noviter  feodatis  de 
dominica 

Carta  8  Ever  ardi  de  Ros. 

De  baronia,  quam  Everardus  de  Ros  de  domino  Rege 
tenet,  scilicet,  quam  Ranulfus  de  Glanville  habet  in 
custodia  ex  tempore  H[enrici]  Regis,  tenet  Petrus  de 
Surde walle  feodum  j  militis. 

Driu  de  Hairun,  j  militem. 

Robertus  de  Barchetorpe,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Thomas  Tuschet,9  feodurn  dimidii  militis. 

Willelmus  filius  Bertram,10  feodum  iiij®  partis  militis. 

Willelmus  de  11  Ninge,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Elyas  12  de  Torp,  iiijam  13  partem  militis. 

Matildis  filia  Hugonis  Camerarii,14  iiijam  13  partem  mi¬ 
litis. 


1  carrucata  and  cases  passim  in 
L.  N. 

2  Minim,  L.  N. 

3  feodum  j  militis,  L.  N. 

4  dimidiam  carrucatam  terree, 
unde  xiiij  carrucatee  faciunt  feo¬ 
dum  militis,  L.  N. 

5  Ranulfus,  L.  N. 

6  dimidium  militem  unde  xiiij  fa¬ 

ciunt  feodum  militis,  L.  N. 


7  Hii,  L.  N. 

8  Carta  feodorum,  L.  N. 

9  Thuschet,  L.  N. 

10  Bertrami,  L.  N. 

11  Le,  L.  N. 

12  Helias,  L.  N. 

13  quartam,  L.  N. 

14  Camm[crarii~\,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


433 


Eboracscira — cont. 

Robertus  de  Spoustone,  iij  1  partem  militis.  a.d. 

Willelmus  de  Stainegrave,2  vjam  3  partem  militis. 

Willelmus  Brun,  xij  partem  militis. 

Eudo  de  Gartone,  xij  partem  militis. 

Walterus  4  de  Gartone,  feodum  j  militis. 

Geroldus  de  Lepintone,  xxiiijam  partem  militis. 

Eustachius  Bonefacius,5  feodum  j  militis;  feffatus 6 
post  tempus  Regis  Henrici. 

J ordanus  le  Enveise,  iijam  1  partem  j  militis. 

Antonius  de  Alburwic,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Hugo  filius  Willelmi,  iiij  7  partem  j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Stepungwelle,8  in  Calvesterne,  iiijam  7 
partem  j  militis. 


Fo.  iso d.  Carta  Roberti  de  Gant. 

Sciendum  est,  hoc  esse  feffamentum 9  Roberti  de  Gant, 
xij  milites  et  dimidium ;  iiij  10  milites  et  dimidium  de 
feodo  Mathaei  de  Curcy.11 

Feodum  j  militis  tenet  Robertus  de  Rudestane.12 

Willelmus  de  Vescy,13  feodum  j  militis. 

Robertus  de  Cambort,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Walterus  filius  Asketil,14  dimidium  feodum  militis. 

Robertus  de  Stangrave,15  dimidium  militem. 

Alanus  de  Capetone,  dimidium  militem. 

Avicia  mater  Willelmi  de  Curcy,11  tenet  feoda  ij  mi¬ 
litum. 


1  tertiam,  L.  N.  J 

2  Stainesgrave,  L.  N. 

3  sextam,  L.  N. 

4  Gwalterus,  L.  N. 

5  Bonifacius ,  L.  N. 

6  feofatus,  L.  N. 

7  quartam,  L.  N. 

8  Stepigwelle,  L.  N. 


9  fef  'amentum,  L.  N. 

10  Quatuor,  L.  N.,  which  begins  a 
new  paragraph  here. 

11  Curci,  L.  N. 

12  Rudeston,  L.  N. 

43  Vesci,  L.  N. 

14  Asketill,  L.  N. 

15  Staingrave,  L.  N. 


63377. 


E  E 


434 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Ebor  acscira — cont. 

A.D.  1166.  Et  de  meo  dominio  egomet  R[obertus]  de  Gant  teneo 
ij  milites  et  dimidium  de  veteri  feffamento.1 

Et  de  novo  feffamento 1  hos  habeo  milites  de  me 
tenentes. 

Willelmus  de  Coleville,  feodum  j  militis. 

R.  de  Langetone,  dimidium  feodum  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Vescy,2  dimidium  militem. 

Willelmus  de  Baillol,3 4  iiijam  4  partem  militis. 

Hugo  de  Gant,  iiij3111  4  partem  j  militis. 

Hugo  de  Grainesby5  feodum  j  militis  de  me  tenet 
cum  praedictis  aliis  militibus,  et  hoc  de  adquisitione 
Radulfi  Painel. 

Carta  Ranulfi  filii  Walteri. 

Reverentissimo  domino  suo,  Regi6  Anglorum,  Ranul- 
fus  filius  Walteri  salutem. 

Sciatis,  quod  antecessores  mei  tenuerunt  de  Rege 
H[enrico],7  avo  vestro,  feoda  militum  meorum ; 8  et 
ego  modo,  vestri  gratia,  de  vobis  teneo  per  servitium 
iij  9  militum  et  iij  partis  militis.  Et  ego  facio  ser¬ 
vitium  de  dominio  meo  de  ij 10  militibus  et  tribus 
partibus  militis.  Et  Ernaldus  de  Mondeville11  facit 
servitium  j  militis. 


Comes  de  Albamare12  tenet  in  hoc  comitatu  feoda 
x  militum. 

Adam  de  Brus  tenet  xv  milites  in  hoc  comitatu. 


1  fef amento,  L.  N. 

2  Vesci,  L.  N. 

3  Bailloill,  L.  N. 

4  quartam,  L.  N. 

5  Grainsesbi,  L.  N. 

6  Henrico  Regi,  L.  N. 


7  H[enrico ]  Rege,  L.  N. 

8  feoda  corum,  L.  N. 

9  trium,  L.  N. 

10  duobus,  L.  N. 

11  Mandeville,  L.  N. 

12  Alba  Mara,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


435 


Eboracscira — cont. 

Willelmus  Trussebut  tenet  feoda  x  militum  in  hoc  A.D.  1166. 
comitatu. 

In  feodo  Comitis  Conan 1  sunt  1  milites  in  hoc 
comitatu. 

In  feodo  Roberti  de  Brus,  v  milites  in  hoc  comi¬ 
tatu. 

In  feodo  Jocellini 2  de  Loveines,  v  milites  et  dimi¬ 
dium. 

In  honore  de  Tikeville  3  sunt  lx  milites  et  iij  4  partes 
j  5  militis  in  hoc  comitatu. 

Willelmus  de  Fulcheriis  6  tenet  j  militem.7 

Carta  militum  honoris  de  Wartre.8 

Henricus  filius  Paviae  tenet  iiijtam  partem  militis  de 
feodo  de  Wartre.9 

Paganus  tenet  j  feodum  de  eodem. 

Adam  de  Dagun 10  tenet  iiijtam  11  partem  de  eodem. 

Willelmus  filius  Anketil  tenet  vjtam  partem  de 
eodem. 

Willelmus  Silvanus  et  Guido 13  de  Ver  tenent  j  mi¬ 


litem. 


1  Conani,  L.  N. 

2  Jocelin,  L.  N. 

3  Sic  in  MS.  ;  Tikehulle,  L.  N. 

4  tres,  L.  N. 

5  unius,  L.  N. 

6  Fulgeriis,  L.  F. 


8  There  is  no  rubric  in  L.  N., 
where  this  and  the  nine  following 
entries  are  a  later  insertion  in  the 
same  hand  as  those  immediately 
preceding. 


7  The  above  eight  entries  are  in 
a  later  hand  in  L.  N.,  but  appear 
in  the  early  hand  of  the  MS.  The 
capitals  were  left  blank  in  L.  N. 
for  rubrication,  which  was  never 
carried  out. 


9  Wardre,  L.  N.  The  d  is  erased 
in  MS. 


10  Ada  Dagun,  L.  N. 

11  quartam,  L.  N. 

12  Gwido,  L.  N. 


E  E  2 


436 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


Eboracscira — cont. 

Filia  Huberti  de  V&us,1  j  militem. 

Filius  Willelmi  de  Wiville,  dimidium  militem. 

Radulfus  de  Bolebech,2  iiijtam3  partem  militis. 

R.  Constabularius  Cestriae  tenet  Snehe  4  per  feodum 
j  militis. 

Ricardus  de  Sproxstune 5  tenet  Sproxstune 5  per  iiijor 
milites,  quam  prius  tenuit  per  serjanteriam  forestae. 

NORHUMBERLANDE. 

Carta  Walteri  filii  Willelmi. 

Carissimo  domino  suo,  Henrico  Regi  Anglorum,  Wal- 
terus  filius  Willelmi,  ejus  baro  de  Norhumberlande, 
salutem. 

Domine,  sciatis,  quod  isti  sunt  milites  mei  f effati 6  de 
veteri  feffamento,7  scilicet,  Willelmus  de  Niweham,  et 
Bertram  de  Wodringatone,8  et  Gilbertus 9  de  Hoggal  de 
novo  feffamento 7  de  medietate  j  militis  de  meo  dominio. 
Et  Otuy 10  de  Insula  de  novo  feffamento 7  de  tertia  parte 
militis,  et  de  meo  dominio.  Et  sciatis,  domine,  quod 
feodum  meum  non  debet  vobis  servitium  nisi  de  tribus 
militibus.  Yalete. 

Carta  G[ilberti]  de  Booilun.11 

Venerabili  domino  suo,  H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum, 
G[ilbertus]  de  Boolun  salutem  et  fidele  servitium. 

Mando  vobis  de  feodo,  quod 13  pater  meus  tenuit  de 
H[enrico]  Rege  Anglorum,  avo  vestro,  et  de  vobis,  et 


1  Vallibus ,  L.  N. 

8  Bolebec,  L.  N. 

3  quartam,  L.  N. 

4  Sneiche,  L,  N. 

5  Sprocstune,  L.  N. 

6  fefaii,  L.  N. 

7  fef amento,  L.  N. 


I  8  Wodrinatone,  L.  N. 

!  9  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

10  Otui,  L  N. 

11  The  i  is  a  later  interlineation 
in  MS. 

12  feodis  qu.ce,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


437 


N  ORHUMBERLANDE — GOnt. 

quod1  ego  modo,  vestri  gratia,  teneo,  scilicet,  feffamen-  A.D. 1166. 
tum  2  trium  militum,  et  facio  servitium  de  meo  dominio 
j  militis.  Et  Willelmus  filius  Berner,3  facit  servitium 
secundi  militis.  Et  Robertus  de  Bellesso4 5  facit  ser¬ 
vitium  tertii  militis.  Yalete. 

Carta  Walteri  de  Bolebec. 

Haec  est  agnitio  de  terra  Walteri  de  Bolebec  de 
Norhumberlande,  scilicet,  de  veteri  feodo  iiijor  milites 
et  dimidium,  quos  debet  Regi :  et  Gilbertus 6  de  Boilun  6 
tenet  ij  milites  et  dimidium. 

Hugo  de  Grandene,7  j  militem. 

Willelmus  filius  Bovis,  j  militem. 

Hoc  est  de  veteri  feffamento.8 

De  novo  autem  feffamento 8  tenet  Oto  de  Insula 
j  militem  et  dimidium 

Reginaldus  filius  Wimundi,  dimidium  militem. 

Johannes  Morel,  tertiam  partem  militis. 

Gospatricius,  tertiam  partem. 

Wibertus  de  Slaveleia,  j  militem. 

De  hoc  praedicto  feodo  debet  Regi  v  milites. 

Carta  Rogeri  Bertram. 

Carissimo  domino  suo  H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum, 

Rogerus  Bertram  9  salutem. 

Domine,  sciatis  quod  vj  milites  et  dimidium  habeo 
feffatos,10  a  tempore  Regis  H[enrici]  11  avi  vestri,  per 


1  quce,  L.  N. 

2  fej amentum,  L.  N. 

3  Bernier ,  L.  N. 

4  Belesso,  L.  N. 

5  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

6  The  t  is  interlineated  in  the 

MS. ;  Bolu[ »],  L.  N. 


7  Craudene,  L.  N. 

8  fej 'amento,  L.  N". 

9  Bartram,  L.  N. 
w  fefatos,  L.  N. 

11  Henrici  Regis,  L.  N. 


438 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


IS  ORHUMBERLANDE — COUt. 

A.D.  1166.  avum  meum  et  patrem  meum,  et  nullum  per  me,  quorum 
nomina  haec  sunt : — 

Radulfus  de  Sancto  Petro  tenet  de  me  feodum 
duorum 1  militum. 

Willelmus  de  Franglingtone,2  j  3  militis. 

Willelmus  de  Difflistone,4  j  •  militis. 

Wihelardus  de  Trophil,  j  militis. 

Johannes  filius  Simonis,5  j  militis. 

Paoanus  de  Halesdure,6  dimidii  militis. 

Et  sciatis,  domine,  quod  feodum  meum  non  debet 
vobis  servitium  nisi  tantum  de  v  militibus.  Valete. 

Carta  Ernulfi  de  Morwic.7 

Regi  Anglorum,  domino  suo,  Ernulfus  de  Morwic,7 
suus  fidelis,  salutem. 

Sciatis,  domine,  me  tenere  de  vobis  feodum  j  militis 
in  Norhumberlande,8  cujus  medietatem  tenet  quidam, 
nomine  David,  de  me  et 9  de  veteri  fefiamento,10 
scilicet,  de  tempore  H[enrici]  Regis11  avi  vestri. 

Carta  Hugonis  de  Elingtona.12 

Carissimo  domino  suo  H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,  Hugo 
de  Eiingtona 12  salutem. 

Sciatis,  domine,  quod  ego  teneo  dimidiam  baroniam  quse 
fuit  Willelmi  de  Granville,13  quse  fuit  partita  inter  sorores, 
quam,  anno  et  die  mortis  avi  vestri,  Regis  H[enrici], 
ipsius  Willelmi  praedecessor  tenuit,  scilicet,  Nicholaus  14 
de  Granville,13  pro  servitio  iij  militum  in  dominio.  Ex- 


1  ij,  L.  N. 

2  Fraglintone,  L.  N. 

3  unius,  L.  N. 

4  Drfficstone,  L.  N. 

5  Simeon,  L.  N. 

6  Hallesdure,  L.  N. 

7  Morewic,  L.  N. 


8  Northumberlande,  L.  N. 

9  L.  N.  omits  et. 

10  fef amento,  L.  N. 

11  liegi  in  MS. 

12  Ellingtona ,  L.  N. 

'3  Gra  :i  ville,  L.  N. 

14  Nicolaus,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


439 


N  ORHUMB  ERLANDE — COTlt. 

cepto  quod  de  illo  dominio  feodaverunt1  iiijtam  2  partem  H66. 
militis,  et  inde  habeo  dimidium  servitium,  scilicet,  viijam  3 
partem  militis.  Et  de  illa  medietate  baroniae  debeo 
facere  servitium  militis  et  dimidii.  Et  quando  recepi 
illam  terram,  non  inveni  eam  feffatam4  aliquo  milite, 
excepta  praedicta  viija  parte.5  Et  excepto,  quod  ea, 
quae  fuit  uxor  Willelmi  de  Grainville,  tenet  j  partem  in 
dote,  unde  illa  et  praedicta  pars  militis  octava  faciunt 
mihi  servitium  dimidii  militis.  Sed  ego  de  eadem 
terra  dedi  militibus  meis,  scilicet,  Radulfo  Baarde6 
et  Roberto  de  Bulemer,  cum  duabus  filiabus  meis, 
quantum  pertinet  ad  servitium  dimidii  militis.  Et 
Fo.  121  d.  egomet  facio  servitium  dimidii  militis  de  terra  mea 
retenta.  Haec  tota  terra  mea  facit  servitium  militis  et 
dimidii.7 

Carta  Stephani  de  Bulemer. 

Illustrissimo  Regi  Anglorum  H[enrico],  domino  suo 
venerabilissimo,  Stephanus  de  Bulemer  salutem  et  fidele 
servitium. 

Sciatis,  domine,  quod  habeo  hos  milites  feffatos8  de 
veteri  feffamento,9  scilicet,  de  tempore  H[enrici]  Regis, 
avi  vestri : — 

Liulfum  filium  Alwoldi,  de  feodo  j  militis. 

Elyam 10  filium  Alvredi,  de  feodo  j  militis. 

Robertum  de  Maneriis  et  Hugonem  de  Dichende,  de 
feodo  j  militis. 

Johannem  filium  11  Odardi  et  Simonem  filium  Er- 
nulfi,  de  feodo  j  militis. 

Robertum  Murdac,  de  feodo  j  militis. 


1  feodaverat,  L.  N. 

2  quartam,  L.  N. 

3  viiijam  in  MS. ;  viij,  L.  N. 

4  feofatum,  L.  N. 

5  octava  parte  militis,  L.  N. 

6  Baard,  L.  N. 

I 

'  See  p.  433,  Carta  Radulfi  de  I 


Gaugy,  with  which  this  fee  was 
linked. 

8  fefatos,  L.  N. 

9  fefamento,  L.  N. 

10  Helium ,  L.  N 

11  Johannes  films  in  MSS. 


440 


UBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


N  ORHUMBERL  A  NDE — COnt. 

A.D.  1166.  Sciatis,  domine,  istos  esse  de  veteri  feffamento,1 
scilicet,  de  anno  et  die  quo  avus  vester  fuit  vivus  et 
mortuus. 

Et  de  novo  feffamento  1  hos  habeo  feffatos  2  q[uonia]m 
in  Marchis  3  vestris  maneo,  et  saepissime  probis  homini¬ 
bus  indigeo  : — 

Thomam  filium  Rogeri,  de  feodo  dimidii  militis. 

Thomam,  filium  meum,  de  feodo  j  militis  ;  et  de 
hoc  feodo  Thomae,  filii  mei,  Radulfus  filius  Willel- 
mi,  tenet  de  eo  dimidium  feodum  militis. 

Robertum  Poher,  de  iiija  4  parte  militis. 

Et  haec  sunt  nomina  militum  de  veteri  et  novo  feffa- 
mento  1  f effatorum.5  Valete,  domine. 

Oarta  Willelmi  filii  Siwardi.6 

H[enricoj  Regi  Anglorum,7  domino  suo  reverentissimo, 
Willelmus  filius  Siwardi  salutem. 

Praeceptum  vestrum,  per  totam  Angliam  divulgatum,8 
per  vicecomitem  vestrum  Norhumberlande 9  ad  me,  sicut 
ad  alios,  pervenit,  ut  significaremus  vobis  feodum  nos¬ 
trum,  et  tenuram,  quam  de  vobis  tenemus.  Idcirco,10 
praesenti  scripto  vobis  notifico,  me  de  vobis  tenere  quan- 
dam  villam,  Goseford  nominatam,  et  aliam  quandam 
dimidiam  quae  Milletone  11  dicitur,  pro  feodo  et  servitio 
j  militis,  quod  facio  fideliter  vobis,  sicut  antecessores  mei 
fecerunt  antecessoribus  vestris,  et  neminem  inde  feodavi, 
sed  in  meo  dominio  teneo. 

Carta  Radulfi  de  Wirecestria. 

H[envico]  Regi  Anglorum,  Duci  Normannorum,  Comiti 
Andegavorum,  Radulfus  de  Wirecestria  salutem. 


1  fef amento,  L.  N. 
*  fef at  os,  L.  N. 

3  Marchiis,  L.  N. 

4  quartam,  L.  N. 
h  fefatorum,  L.  N, 
°  Siward,  L.  A'. 


7  Anglice,  L.  N. 

8  devulgatum  in  MS. 

9  N orthuviberlandce,  L.  N. 

10  Icirco,  L.  N. 

11  Miletone,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


441 


N  ORHUMBERL  ANDE — COTI  L 

Sciatis,  quod  teneo  de  vobis  in  capite  de  veteri  A. D.  1 166. 
feffamento  1  feodum  j  militis,  unde  debeo  vobis  facere 
servitium  j  militis.  Et  de  eodem  feodo  Jordanus 
Hairun  debet  mihi  facere  iiijam  partem  servitii  de 
novo  feffamento.1  Et  Paganus  de  Wircestria 2 3  aliam 
iiijam  partem  servitii  similiter  de  novo  feffamento.1 
Et  monachi  de  Tinomutha4 5  vij  partem,  et  Willelmus 
filius  Adae  iijam  5  partem,  unde  desseisitus  sum  praecepto 
vestro.  Et  superplus  jacet  super  dominium  meum. 

Carta  Johannis  filii  Wdardi. 

H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,  domino  suo,  Johannes  filius 
Wdardi  salutem. 

Sciatis,  quod  de  feodo  iij 6  militum,  quod  de  vobis 
teneo,  feodavi  de  novo  feffamento 7  militem  et  dimidium, 
scilicet  : — 

Willelmum  filium  Adae,  dimidium  militem. 

E[t]  Albertum,  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Ernulfum  et  Alardum,8  feodum  dimidii  militis. 

Et  ego  facio  servitium  militis  et  dimidii  de  meo  do¬ 
minio. 


Carta  Willelmi  filii  Alvrici. 

Reverenti ssimo  domino  suo  H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,9 
Willelmus  filius  Alvrici  de  Dovelestone  salutem. 

Sciatis,  domine  mi,  quod  ego  tenui  feodum  meum  de 
H[enrico]  Rege,  avo  vestro,  et  vestri  gratia  modo  de 
vobis  teneo,  scilicet,  tertiam  partem  j  militis.  Valete. 


1  /e/ amento,  L.  N. 

2  Wirecestria,  L.  N. 

3  quartam ,  L.  N. 

*  Tinemutha,  L.  N. 

5  tertiam,  L.  N. 


6  trium,  L.  N. 

'  feodamento,  L.  N. 
3  Aelardum,  L.  N. 

9  Anglia,  L.  N. 


442 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


N  ORHUMBERL  ANDE — COTlt. 

A.D.  1166.  CARTA  GlLBERTI1  DE  LaUVAL. 

Venerabili  domino  suo  H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,2  Gil- 
bertus 3  de  Lanval  salutem. 

Sciatis,  domine  mi,  quod  antecessores  mei,  tempore 
Regis  H[enrici]  avi  vestri,  tenuerunt  feodum  duorum 
militum,  et  ego  modo,  vestri  gratia,  illud  teneo. 

De  eodem  feodo  quidam  miles  de  me  tenet  iiijam 
partem  j  militis.  Valete. 

Carta  Rogeri  filii  Ricardi. 

Ego  Rogerus  filius  Ricardi  teneo  in  capite  de  Rege 
Wrkwrtham4  per  servitium  j  5  militis. 

Fo.  122.  Carta  Ricardi  Bertram. 

H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,  domino  suo  carissimo,  Ri- 
cardus  Bertram  salutem. 

Sciatis,  quod  ego  habeo  feodum  iij 6  militum  de 
antiquo  fefiamento  7  quod  ego  ipse  teneo.  Et  milites 
non  tenent  de  me.  Valete. 

Carta  Godefridi  Baard.8 

H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,  Godefridus  Baard  salu¬ 
tem.9  Sciatis,  quod  teneo  de  vobis  iij  10  partem  feodi 
j  militis,  unde  homo  vester  et  Henrici,  filii  vestri  deveni ; 
et  illa  tertia  pars  inter  duas  sorores  partita  est,  et  Ro- 
landus  Baard  cum  j 11  de  sororibus  alteram  partem 
habet ;  et  inter  duas  non  habet 12  nisi  iija  13  pars  feodi 
j  militis. 


1  Geleberti,  L.  N. 

2  Anglios ,  L.  N. 

3  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

4  Wurkewrtliam,  L.  N. 

5  unius,  L.  N. 

6  trium,  L.  N. 

7  feof amento,  L.  N. 


8  Baiard,  L.  N. 

9  L.  N.  omits  salutem. 

10  tertiam,  L.  N. 

11  una,  L.  N. 

12  Sic  in  MS.  Perhaps  we  should 
read  habetur. 

13  tertia,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


443 


N  ORHUMBERL  ANDE — COTlt. 

Carta  Radulfi  de  Gaugy.1 

Domino  Regi  Anglorum,  Duci  Normannorum  et 
Aquitannorurn,  Comiti  Andegavorum,  Radulfus  de 
Gaugi  salutem. 

Sciatis,  quod  tempore  Regis,  avi  vestri,  antecessores 
mei  tenuerunt  feodum  suum  per  servitium  iij1  2  mi¬ 
litum,  et  de  hoc  feodo  feodaverunt  quendam  militem, 
nomine  Golonem,3  de  veteri  feffamento4 5  de  iija  5  parte 
militis.  Deinde  contigit,  quod  hoc  feodum 6  divisum 
fuit  inter  duas  sorores,  unde  ego  fili  [am]  praenatse  sororis 
ante-natam  habeo,7  scilicet,  feodum  militis  et  dimidii  in 
dominio,  unde  facio  servitium  totum 8  de  dominio  meo, 
prreter  viijam  partem  militis  veteris  feffamenti.9  Et 
sciatis,  quod  de  meo  feodo  nullum  feodavi10 *  de  novo 
feffamento,11  sed  postnata  soror,  scilicet,  uxor  Hugonis 
de  Ellintone,  feodavit  Radulfum  Barard12  de  vja  parte 
militis,  et  Gilebertum  de  Hectone 13  de  xiij  parte 
militis. 


Carta  Roberti  Caro. 

H[enrico]  Regi  Anglorum,  domino  suo,  Robertus  Caro 
salutem. 


1  Gaugi,  L.  N. 

2  trium,  L.  N. 

3  Galonern,  L.  N. 

4  feodamento,  L.  N. 

5  quarta,  L.  N. 

6  feodum  hoc,  L.  N. 

7  habeo  ante[natam\,lu.  N.  The 

reading  is  very  obscure.  Dugdale 

as  usual  shirks  the  difficulty  al¬ 

together,  merely  statiug  that  there 

were  two  sisters  or  co-heirs,  and 

that  Ralph  married  the  elder.  It 


is  possible  that  the  MS.  from 
which  the  scribe  copied  is  corrupt, 
and  that  the  true  reading  should  be 
unde  ego,  filius  prcenatce  sororis, 
alteram  partem  habeo . 

8  totum  servitium,  L.  N. 

9  fej amenti,  L.  N. 

10  feodavi  nullum,  L.  N. 

11  fej amento,  L.  N. 

12  Bddrd,  L.  N. 

13  The  H  is  interlined  in  the 
MS. ;  Hettone,  L.  N. 


444 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


N  ORHUMBERL  ANDE — COTlt. 

A.D.  1166.  Ego  Robertus  Caro  teneo  v  carucatas  1  terrse  pro  j 
feodo  militis.  Et  de  hoc  feodo  tenet  Willelmus,  frater 
meus,  iijam  2  partem  illius  feodi,  faciendo  inde  michi 
servitium,  a  tempore  Regis  H[enrici].  Valete. 

Carta  Rogeri  Merlai. 

Hii  sunt  qui  tenent  de  Rogero  de  Merlai  de  veteri 
feffamento  3 : — 

Willelmus  de  Cliftone,  feodum  j  militis. 

Reginaldus,4  feodum  j  militis. 

De  novo  feffamento : — 

Rogerus  de  Merlai,  iiijam  5  partem  j  militis. 

Robertus  filius  Petri,  iijam  2  partem  j  militis. 

Superplus  iiij 6  militum,  quos  domino  Regi  debet, 
jacet  super  dominium  meum.7 


LANCASTRIAN 

Carta  Gilberti  filii  Reinfridi.9 

Gilbertus  10  filius  Reinfridi,  de  j  milite,  de  terra  sua  de 
Westmerlande  et  Kendale. 

Idem  tenet  j  carucatam  terrse  in  Lesnes  cum  piscaria, 
et  iij  11  carucatis  terrse  in  Karl  intone  et  Bescn[ap],  et 
iiij  carucatas  terrse  in  Prestone,12  et  ij  carucatas  terrse 
in  Bertone,13  et  j  carucatam  terrse  in  Heunecastria,  et 


1  carrucatas,  L.  N. 

2  tertiam,  L.  N. 

3  fef amento,  L.  N. 

4  Reiner ,  L.  N. 

‘  quartam,  L.  N. 

6  quatuor,  L.  N. 

7  suum.  L.  N. 


8  Lancaster,  L.  N.,  where  this 
return  is  a  later  insertion. 

9  There  is  no  rubric  in  L.  N. 

10  Gilebertus,  L.  N. 

11  iiij,  L.  N. 

12  Prestune,  L.  N 

13  Bertune,  L.  N. 


LIBER  RUBEUS  DE  SCACCARIO. 


445 


Lancastria — count. 

j  carucatam  terras  in  Prestone,  et  iij  carucatas  terrae  in  a.d.  i  i  66. 
Luctone,  et  j  piscariam  pertinentem  ad  easdem  terras, 
per  servitium  j  militis. 

Thebald1  Walter  tenet  Aumodernesse  per  servitium 
j  militis.2 


1  Thebbald,  L.  N. 

2  L.  N.  follows  here  with  Feoda 
qucE  debentur  ad  custodiam  Castri 


Dovora,  in  a  stili  later  hand,  which 
are  entered  in  another  part  of  the 


MS. 


■ 


LONDON  :  Printed  by  Eyre  &  Spottiswoode, 
Printers  to  the  Queen’s  most  Excellent  Majesty. 

For  Her  Majesty’s  Stationery  Office. 

[6366. — 750. — 12/91.] 


CATA  LOGU E 

( Revised  to  25th  December  1896) 


OF 

ENGLISH,  SCOTCH,  AND  IRISH  RECORD 

PUBLICATIONS, 

REPORTS  OF  THE  HISTORICAL  MANUSCRIPTS 

COMMISSION, 

AND 

ANNUAL  REPORTS  OF  THE  DEPUTY  KEEPERS 
OF  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS,  ENGLAND  AND 

IRELAND, 


Printed  for 

HER  MAJESTY’S  STATIONERY  OFFICE, 

And  to  be  purchased, 

Either  directly  or  through  any  Bookseller,  from 

EYJR.E  and  SPOTTISWOODE,  East  Harding  Street,  Fleet  Street,  E.C. ;  or 

JOHN  MENZ1ES  &  Co.,  12,  Hanover  Street,  Edinburgh,  and 
90,  West  Nile  Street,  Glasgow;  or 

HODGES,  FIGGIS,  &  Co.,  Limited,  104,  Grafton  Street,  Dublin. 


4 


Calendar  of  Letters  and  Papers,  Foreign  and  Domestic,  of  the  Reign  of 
Henry  VIII.,  preserved  in  Her  Majesty’s  Public  Record  Office,  the 
British  Museum,  and  elsewhere  in  England.  Editedby  J.  S.  Brewer, 
M.A.,  Professor  of  English  Literature,  King’s  College,  London 
(Vols.  I.-IV.) ;  and  by  James  G-airdner,  an  Assistant  Record  Keeper 
(Vols.  V.-X1L).  1862-1895. 


Vol.  I.— 1509-1514.  (Out  of 
'print.) 

Vol.  II.  (in  two  Parts) — 1515- 
1518.  ( Part  I.  out  of  print.) 

Vol.  III.  (in  two  Parts) — 1519— 
1523. 

Vol.  IV. — Introduction. 

Vol.  IV.,  Part  1.-1524-1526. 
Vol.  IV.,  Part  2.-1526-1528. 
Vol.  IV.,  Part  3—1529-1530. 

Vol.  V— 1531-1532. 

Vol.  VI— 1533. 

Vol.  VII— 1534. 

Vol.  VIII— 1535,  to  July. 


Vol.  X. —  1536,  Jan.  to  June. 

Vol.  XI. — 1536,  July  to  Dec. 

Vol.  XII.,  Part  1. — 1537,  Jan.  to 
May. 

Vol.  XII.,  Part  2. — 1537,  June  to 
Dec. 

Vol.  XIII.,  Part  1—1538,  Jan.  to 
July. 

Vol.  XIII.,  Part  2,— 1538,  Aug. 
to  Dec. 

Vol.  XIV.,  Part  1—1539,  Jan.  to 
July. 

Vol.  XIV.,  Part  2—1539,  Aug. 
to  Dec. 


Vol.  IX—  1535,  Aug.  to  Dec. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  Reigns  of  Edward 
VI.,  Mary,  Elizabeth,  and  James  I.,  preserved  in  the  Public  Record 
Office.  Edited  by  Robert  Lemon,  F.S.A.  (Vols.  I.  and  II.),  and  by 
Mary  Anne  Everett  Green  (Vols.  III.-XII.).  1856-1872. 


Vol.  I—  1547-1580. 

Vol.  II—  1581-1590. 

Vol.  Ill— 1591-1594.  ( Out  of 

print.) 

Vol.  IV— 1595-1597. 

Vol.  V—  1598-1601. 

Vol.  VI—  1601-1603,  with 


Vol.  VII—  Addenda,  1566-1579. 
Vol.  VIII— 1603-1610. 

Vol.  IX—  1611-1618. 

Vol.  X—  1619-1623. 

Vol.  XI—  1623-1625,  with 

Addenda,  1603-1625. 
Vol.  XII. —  Addenda,  1580-1625. 


Addenda,  1547-1565. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  Reign  of  Charles  I., 
preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office.  Edited  by  John  Bruce,  F.S.A. 
(Vols.  I. -XII.);  by  John  Brtjce,  F.S.A.,  and  William  Douglas 
Hamilton,  F.S.A.  (Vol.  XIII.);  and  by  William  Douglas  Hamilton, 
F.S.A.  (Vols.  XIV.-XXII.).  1858-1893.  * 


Vol.  I— 
Vol.  II— 
Vol.  Ill— 
Vol.  IV— 
Vol.  V— 
Vol.  VI— 


1625-1626. 

1627- 1628. 

1628- 1629. 

1629- 1631. 
1631-1633. 
1633-1634. 


Vol.  VII—  1634-1635. 
Vol.  VIII— 1635. 

Vol.  IX—  1635-1636. 
Vol.  X—  1636-1637. 
Vol.  XI—  1637. 


Vol.  XII—  1637-1638. 
Vol.  XIII—  1638-1639. 
Vol.  XIV—  1639. 

Vol.  XV—  1639-1640. 
Vol.  XVI—  1640. 

Vol.  XVII—  1640-1641. 
Vol.  XVIII— 1641-1643. 
Vol.  XIX—  1644. 

Vol.  XX. —  1644-1645. 

Vol.  XXI—  1645-1647. 
Vol.  XXII—  1648-1649. 


Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  during  the  Commonwealth, 
preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office.  Edited  by  Mary  Anne  Everett 
Green.  1875-1885. 


1649-1650. 

1650. 


Vol.  I— 

Vol.  II.- 
Vol.  Ill—  1651. 

Vol.  IV.—  1651-1652 
Vol.  V— 

Vol.  VI.- 


1652- 1653. 

1653- 1654. 

Vol  VII- 1654. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers: — Committee  for  the  Advance  of 
1642-1656.  Edited  by  Mary  Anne  Everett  Green.  Parts 
1888. 


Vol.  VIII— 1655. 

Vol.  IX. —  1655-1656. 
Vol.  X—  1656-1657. 
Vol.  XI—  1657-1658. 
Vol.  XII—  1658-1659. 
Vol.  XIII. — 1659-1660. 


Money, 
I. -III., 


Calendar  of  State  papers  : — Committee  ior  Compounding,  &c.,  1643- 
1660.  Edited  by  Mary  Anne  Everett  Green.  Pints  I.-V  1889- 
1892. 


b 


Calendae  of  State  Papees,  Domestic  Seeies,  of  the  Reign  of  Chaeies  II,, 
preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office,  Edited  by  Maey  2Lnne 
Eveeett  Geeen.  1860-1895,  and  by  F.  H.  Blackburne  Daniell,  M.A., 
1895. 


Yol.  L—  1660-1661. 
Yol.  II.—  1661-1662. 
Yol.  III.— 1663-1664. 
Yol.  IY.—  1664-1665. 
Yol.  Y.—  1665-1666. 
Yol.  YI.—  1666-1667. 


Yol.  VII.—  1667. 

Yol.  VIII.— 1667-1668. 

Yol.  IX.—  1668-1669. 

Yol.  X. — 1670  and  Addenda, 
1660-1670. 

Yol.  XL— 1671. 


Calendae  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  Eeign  of  William  III., 
preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office.  Edited  by  William  John 
Hardy,  F.S.A.  1895. 

Yol.  I.— 1689-1690. 

Calendar  of  Home  Office  Papers  of  the  Reign  of  George  III.,  preserved 
in  the  Public  Record  Office.  Yols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  Joseph 
Redington,  an  Assistant  Record  Keeper,  1878-1879.  Vol.  III. 
Edited  by  Richard  Arthur  Roberts,  Barrister-at-Law.  1881. 


Yol.  I.— 1760  (25  Oct.)-1765. 
Yol.  II.— 1766-1769. 


Yol.  Ill— 1770-1772. 


Calendar  of  Treasury  Papers,  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office. 
Edited  by  Joseph  Redington,  an  Assistant  Record  Keeper.  1868- 
1889. 


Yol.  I— 
Yol.  II.- 
Yol.  III.- 


1557-1696. 

1697-1702. 

-1702-1707. 


Yol.  IY— 1708-1714. 
Yol.  V—  1714-1719. 
Yol.  YI— 1720-1728. 


Calendae  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Scotland,  preserved  in  the  Public 
Record  Office.  Edited  by  Markham  John  Thorpe.  1858. 

Vol.  I.  the  Scottish  Series,  1509-1589. 

Yol.  II.  the  Scottish  Series,  1589-1603  ;  an  Appendix  to  the 
Scottish  Series,  1543-1592  ;  and  the  State  Papers  relating  to 
Mary  Queen  of  Scots. 

Calendar  of  Documents  relating  to  Ireland,  in  the  Public  Record  Office, 
London.  Edited  by  Henry  Savage  Sweetman,  B.A.,  Barrister-at- 
Law  (Ireland) ;  continued  by  Gustavus  Frederick  Handcock.  1875- 
1886. 


Yol.  I—  1171-1251. 
Yol.  II—  1252-1284. 
Yol.  Ill— 1285-1292. 


Yol.  IY— 1293-1301. 
Yol.  V—  1302-1307. 


Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  of  the  Reigns  of 
Henry  VIII.,  Edward  YI.,  Mary,  and  Elizabeth,  preserved  in  the 
Public  Record  Office.  Edited  by  Hans  Claude  Hamilton,  F.S.A., 
1860-1890,  and  by  E.  G.  Atkinson,  1893-1895. 


Yol.  V—  1592-1596 
Yol.  YI— 1596-1597. 
Yol.  VIL— 1598-1599. 


Yol.  I—  1509-1573. 

Yol.  II.—  1574-1585. 

Yol.  Ill— 1586-1588. 

Yol.  IY— 1588-1592. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  of  the  Reign  of  James  I., 
preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office,  and  elsewhere.  Edited  by  the 
Rev  C.  W.  Russell,  D.D.,  and  John  P.  Prendergast,  Barri&ter-at- 
Law.  1872-1880. 


Yol.  IY— 1611-1614. 
Yol.  V—  1615-1625. 


Yol.  I—  1603-1606. 

Yol.  II.—  1606-1608. 

Yol.  Ill— 1603-1610. 

Calendar  of  the  Carew  Papers,  preserved  in  the  Lambeth  _  Library. 
Edited  by  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.,  Professor  of  English  Literature, 
King’s  College,  London  ;  and  William  Bullen.  1867-1873. 


Yol.  I—  1515-1574.  (Out 
of  print.) 

Yol.  II—  1575-1588. 

Yol.  Ill— 1589-1600. 


Yol.  IY— 1601-1603. 

Yol.  V. —  Book  of  Howth, 
Miscellaneous. 
Yol.  VI— 1603-1624. 


6 


Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Colonial  Series.  Edited  by  W.  Noel 

Sainsbury,  late  an  Assistant  Record  Keeper.  1860-1891,  and  by  the 
Hon.  J.  W.  Fortescue.  1896. 

Yol.  I. — America  and  West  Indies,  1574-1660. 

Yol.  II. — East  Indies,  China,  and  Japan,  1513-1616.  (Outof  print.) 

Yol.  III.—  ,,  ,,  ,,  1617-1621.  {Outof print.) 

Yol.  IY.—  ,,  „  „  1622-1624. 

Yol.  Y. — America  and  West  Indies,  1661-1668. 

Yol.  VI.— East  Indies,  1625-1629. 

Yol.  VII. — America  and  West  Indies,  1669-1674. 

Yol.  VIII. — East  Indies  and  Persia,  1630-1634. 

Yol.  IX. — America  and  West  Indies,  1675-1676,  and  Addenda, 
1574-1674. 

Yol.  X. — America  and  West  Indies,  1677-1680. 

These  volumes  deal  with  Colonial  Papers  in  the  Public  Record  Office, 
the  India  Office,  and  the  British  Museum. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Foreign  Series,  of  the  Reign  of  Edward  VI., 
preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office.  1547-1553.  Edited  by 
W.  B.  Turnbull,  Barrister-at-Law,  &c.  1861. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Foreign  Series,  of  the  reign  of  Mary,  pre¬ 
served  in  the  Public  Record  Office.  1553-1558.  Edited  by  W.  B. 
Turnbull,  Barrister-at-Law,  &c.  1861. 


Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Foreign  Series,  of  the  reign  of  Elizabeth, 
preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office,  &c.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  Joseph 
Stevenson,  M.A.  (Yols.  I.-VIL),  and  Allan  James  Crosby,  M.A., 
Barrister-at-Law  (Yols.  VIII.-XL).  1863-1880. 

Yol.  L—  1558-1559.  Yol.  VII—  1564-1565. 


Yol.  II—  1559-1560. 
Yol.  Ill— 1560-1561. 
Yol.  IY— 1561-1562. 
Yol.  V—  1562, 

Yol.  VI— 1563. 


Yol.  VIII.— 1566-1568. 
Yol.  IX—  1569-1571. 
Yol.  X—  1572-1574. 
Yol.  XI—  1575-1577. 


Calendar  of  Letters,  Despatches,  and  State  Papers,  relating  to  the 
Negotiations  between  England  and  Spain,  preserved  in  the  Archives 
at  Simancas,  and  elsewhere.  Edited  by  G.  A.  Bergenroth  (Yols.  I. 
and  II.)  1862-1868,  and  Don  Pascual  de  Gayangos  (Yols.  III.  to  VI.) 
1873-1895. 


Vol.  I—  1485-1509. 

Yol.  11—1509-1525. 
Supplement  to  Yol.  I.  and 
Yol.  II. 

Yol.  III.,  Part  1—1525-1526. 
Vol.  III.,  Part  2—1527-1529. 
Yol.  IY.,  Part  1—1529-1530. 


Yol.  IV.,  Part  2—1531-1533. 
Yol.  IV.,  Part  2—1531-1533. 
continued . 

Yol.  V.,  Part  1—  1534-1535. 
Yol.  V.,  Part  2—  1536-1538. 
Vol.  VI.,  Part  1—  1538-1542. 
Yol.  VI.,  Part  2—  1542-1543. 


Calendar  of  Letters  and  State  Papers,  relating  to  English  Affairs, 
preserved  principally  in  the  Archives  of  Simancas.  Edited  by 
Martin  A.  S.  Hume,  F.R.Hist.S.  1892-1895. 

Yol.  1—1558-1567. 


Yol.  II— 1568-1579. 


Yol.  Ill— 1580-1586. 


Calendar  of  State  Papers  and  Manuscripts,  relating  to  English  Affairs, 
preserved  in  the  Archives  of  Venice,  &c.  Edited  by  Rawdon  Brown. 
1864-1884,  by  Rawdon  Brown  and  the  Right  Hon.  G.  Cavendish 
Bentinck,  M.P.,  18^0,  and  by  Horatio  F.  Browtn,  1895. 


Yol.  I—  1202-1509. 
Yol.  II—  1509-1519. 
Yol.  Ill— 1520-1526. 
Yol.  IY— 1527-1533. 
Yol.  V—  1534-1554. 


Yol.  VI.,  Part  I—  1555-1556. 
Yol.  VI.,  Part  II—  1556-1557. 
Yol.  VI.,  Part  III— 1557-1558. 
Yol.  VII. —  1558-1580. 

Yol.  VIII—  1581-1591. 


Calendar  of  entries  in  the  Papal  Registers,  illustrating  the  history  of 
Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Edited  by  W.  H.  Bliss,  B.C.L  PaDal 
Letters.  1893-1895.  ’  F 

Yol.  I— 1198-1304.  |  Yol.  II— 1305-1342. 


7 


Calendar  of  entries  in  the  Papal  Registers,  illustrating  the  history  of 
Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Edited  by  W.  H.  Bliss,  B.C.L.  Petitions 
to  the  Pope.  1342-1419. 

Report  oe  the  Deputy  Keeper  oe  the  Records  and  the  Rev.  J.  S.  Brewer 
upon  the  Carte  and  Carew  Papers  in  the  Bodleian  and  Lambeth 
Libraries.  18G4.  Price  2s.  6d. 

Report  op  the  Deputy  Keeper  op  the  Records  upon  the  Documents  in  the 
Archives  and  Public  Libraries  of  Venice.  1866.  Price  2s.  6d. 

Guide  to  the  Principal  Classes  op  Documents  in  the  Public  Record 
Office.  By  S.  R.  Scargill  Bird,  F.S.A.  Second  Edition.  1896. 
Price  7s. 


Acts  of  the  Privy  Council  of  England,  New  Series.  Edited  by  John 
Roche  Dasent,  C.B.,  M.A.,  Barrister-at-Law.  1890-96.  Price  10s.  each. 


Vol.  I.  —1542-1547. 
Vol.  II.  —1547-1550. 
Vol.  Ill— 1550-1552. 
Vol.  IV— 1552-1554. 
Vol.  V.  —1554-1556. 
Vol.  VI— 1556-1558. 
Vol.  VII.  —1558-1570. 


Vol.  VIII.— 1571-1575. 
Vol.  IX.  -1575-1577. 
Vol.  X.  -1577-1578. 
Vol.  XI.  -1578-1580. 
Vol.  XII.  -1580-1581. 
Vol.  XIII— 1581.-1582. 


In  the  Press 


Descriptive  Catalogue  of  Ancient  Deeds,  preserved  in  the  Public  Record 


Office.  Vol.  III. 

Calendar  of  the  Patent  Rolls  of  the  Reign  of  Edward  I.  Vol.  IV. 
1301-1307. 

Calendar  of  the  Patent  Rolls  of  the  Reign  of  Edward  II.  Vol.  II. 
1313-1318. 

Calendar  of  the  Patent  Rolls  of  the  Reign  of  Edward  III.  Vol.  IV. 
1338,  &c. 

Calendar  of  the  Patent  Rolls  of  the  Reign  of  Richard  II.  Vol.  II. 
1381-1385. 

Calendar  of  the  Patent  Rolls  of  the  Reign  of  Edward  IV.  Vol.  I. 
1461-1467. 

Calendar  of  the  Close  Rolls  of  the  Reign  of  Edward  II.  Vol.  IV.  1323- 


1327. 


Calendar  of  the  Close  Rolls  of  the  Reign  of  Edward  III.  Vol.  II. 
Calendar  of  Letters  and  Papers,  Foreign  and  Domestic,  of  the  Reign  of 
Henry  VIII.,  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office,  the  British 
Museum,  &c.  Edited  by  James  Gairdner,  late  an  Assistant  Record 
Keeper.  Vol.  XV. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  relating  to  English  Affairs,  preserved  in  the 
Archives  of  Venice,  & c.  Edited  by  Horatio  F.  Brown.  Vol.  IX. 
Calendar  of  entries  in  the  Papal  Registers,  illustrating  the  history  of 
Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Edited  by  W.  H.  Bliss,  B.C.L.  Papal 
Letters.  Vol.  III.  1343-1362. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  Reign  of  Charles  I. 
Vol.  XXIII.  Addenda. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  Reign  of  Charles  II. 

1672.  Edited  by  F.  H.  Blackburne  Daniell. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  Reign  of  William  III. 
Vol.  II.  Edited  by  W.  J.  Hardy. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Colonial  Series.  Vol.  XT.  Edited  by  the 
Hon.  J.  W.  Fortescue. 

Calendar  of  Inquisitiones  Post  Mortem,  Henry  VII. 


Acts  of  the  Privy  Council  of  England,  New  Series,  Vol.  XIV.  Edited  by 
John  Roche  Dasent,  C.B.,  M.A.,  Barrister-at-Law. 


8 


PUBLIC  RECORD  OFFICE. 


LISTS  AND  INDEXES. 


The  object  of  these  publications  is  to  make  the  contents  of  the  Public 
Record  Office  more  easily  available.  In  conjunction  with  the  Calendars, 
they  will,  in  course  of  time,  form  a  catalogue  of  the  National  Archives,  as 
explained  in  the  Fifty-first  Report  of  the  Deputy  Keeper  of  the  Records 
(page  10). 


No.  I.  Index  of  Ancient  Petitions  of  the  Chancery  and  the  Exchequer. 
1892.  Price  9s.  6rf. 

No.  II.  List  and  Index  of  Declared  Accounts  from  the  Pipe  Office  and 
the  Audit  Office.  1893.  Price  15s. 

No.  III.  List  of  volumes  of  State  Papers  (Great  Britain  and  Ireland), 
Part  L,  A.D.  1547-1760.  1894.  Price  6s.  6d. 

No.  IV.  List  of  Plea  Rolls.  1894.  Price  7s. 

No.  Y.  List  and  Index  of  Ministers’  Accounts  preserved  in  the  Public 
Record  Office.  Part  I.  1894.  Price  16s. 

No.  YI.  List  and  Index  of  Court  Rolls  preserved  in  the  Public  Record 
Office.  Part  I.  1896.  Price  15s. 

No.  YII.  Index  of  Chancert  Proceedings,  Series  II.  A.D.  1558-1579. 
1896.  Price  14s. 


In  the  Press. 

List  of  Sheripes. 

List  and  Index  of  Ministers’  Accounts.  Part  11. 


In  Progress. 

Index  of  Earl*  Chancery  Proceedings. 

List  of  Ancient  Accounts. 

List  of  Enrolled  Accounts. 

List  of  Surveys,  Rentals,  &c. 


9 


THE  CHRONICLES  AND  MEMORIALS  OF  GREAT 
BRITAIN  AND  IRELAND  DURING  THE  MIDDLE  AGES. 


[Royal  Bvo.  Price  10s.  each  Volume  or  Part.] 


On  25  July  1822,  the  House  of  Commons  presented  an  address  to  the 
Ci’own,  stating  that  the  editions  of  the  works  of  our  ancient  historians 
were  inconvenient  and  defective ;  that  many  of  their  writings  still 
remained  in  manuscript,  and,  in  some  cases,  in  a  single  copy  only.  They 
added,  “that  an  uniform  and  convenient  edition  of  the  whole,  published 
“  under  His  Majesty’s  royal  sanction,  would  be  an  undertaking  honour- 
“  able  to  His  Majesty’s  reign,  and  conducive  to  the  advancement  of 
“  historical  and  constitutional  knowledge ;  that  the  House  therefore 
“  humbly  besought  His  Majesty,  that  He  would  be  graciously  pleased  to 
“  give  such  directions  as  His  Majesty,  in  His  wisdom,  might  think  fit, 
“  for  the  publication  of  a  complete  edition  of  the  ancient  historians 
“  of  this  realm.” 

The  Master  of  the  Rolls,  being  very  desirous  that  effect  should  be  given 
to  the  resolution  of  the  House  of  Commons,  submitted  to  Her  Majesty’s 
Treasury  in  1857  a  plan  for  the  publication  of  the  ancient  chronicles  and 
memorials  of  the  United  Kingdom,  and  it  was  adopted  accordingly. 

Of  the  Chronicles  and  Memorials,  the  following  volumes  have  been 
published.  They  embrace  the  period  from  the  earliest  time  of  British 
history  down  to  the  end  of  the  reign  of  Henry  VII. 


1.  The  Chronicle  of  England,  by  John  Capgrave.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 

F.  C.  Hingeston,  M.A.  1858. 

Capgrave’s  Chronicle  extends  from  the  creation  of  the  world  to  the  year  1417.  As 
a  record  of  the  language  spoken  in  Norfolk  (being  written  in  English),  it  is  of  considerable 
value. 

2.  Chronicon  Monasterii  de  Abingdon.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  the 

Rev.  Joseph  Stevenson,  M.A.,  Vicar  of  Leighton  Buzzard.  1858. 

This  Chronicle  traces  the  history  of  the  monastery  from  its  foundation  by  King  Ina 
of  Wessex,  to  the  reign  of  Richard  I.  The  author  had  access  to  the  title  deeds  of  the 
house,  and  incorporates  into  his  history  various  charters  of  the  Saxon  kings,  of  great  im¬ 
portance  as  illustrating  not  only  the  history  of  the  locality  but  that  of  the  kingdom. 

3.  Lives  of  Edward  the  Confessor,  I. — La  Estoire  de  Seint  Aedward  le 

Rei.  II. — Vita  Beati  Edvardi  Regis  et  Confessoris.  III. — Vita 
iEduuardi  Regis  qui  apud  Westmonasterium  requiescit.  Edited  by 
Henry  Richards  Luard,  M.A.,  Fellow  and  Assistant  Tutor  of  Trinity 
College,  Cambridge.  1858. 

The  first  is  a  poem  in  Norman  French,  probably  written  in  1245.  The  second  is  an 
anonymous  poem,  written  between  1440  and  1450,  which  is  mainly  valuable  as  a  specimen  of 
the  Latin  poetry  of  the  time.  The  third,  also  by  an  anonymous  author,  was  apparently 
written  between  1066  and  1074. 

4.  Monumenta  Franciscana.  Vol.  I. — Thomas  de  Eccleston  de  Adventu 

Fratrum  Minorum  in  Angliam.  Ad®  de  Marisco  Epistol®.  Regis- 
trum  Fratrum  Minorum  Londonise.  Edited  by  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A., 
Professor  of  English  Literature,  King’s  College,  London.  Vol.  II. — 
De  Adventu  Minorum ;  re-edited,  with  additions.  Chronicle  of  the 
Grey  Friars.  The  ancient  English  version  of  the  Rule  of  St.  Francis. 
Abbreviatio  Statutorum,  1451,  &c.  Edited  by  Richard  Howlett, 
Barrister-at-Law.  1858,  1882. 

The  first  volume  contains  original  materials  for  the  history  of  the  settlement  of  the 
order  of  St.  Francis  in  England,  the  letters  of  Adam  de  Marisco,  and  other  papers.  The 
second  volume  contains  materials  foimd  since  the  first  volume  was  published. 


10 


5.  Fasciculi  Zizaniorum  Magistri  Johannis  Wyclif  cum  Tritico*  Ascribed 

to  Thomas  Netter,  of  Walden,  Provincial  of  the  Carmelite  Order 
in  England,  and  Confessor  to  King  Henry  the  Fifth.  Edited  by  the 
Rev.  \V.  W.  Shirley,  M.A.,  Tutor  and  late  Fellow  of  AVadham 
College,  Oxford.  1858. 

This  work  gives  the  only  contemporaneous  account  of  the  rise  of  the  Lollards. 

6.  The  Buik  or  the  Croniclis  of  Scotland  ;  or,  A  Metrical  Version  of  the 

History  of  Hector  Boece;  by  William  Stewart.  Vols.  I.,  II.,  and 
III.  Edited  by  AV.  B.  Turnbull,  Barrister-at-Law.  1858. 

This  is  a  metrical  translation  of  a  Latin  Prose  Chronicle,  written  in  the  first  half  of  the 
16th  century.  The  narrative  begins  with  the  earliest  legends  and  ends  with  the  death  of 
James  I.  of  Scotland,  and  the  “  evil  ending  of  the  traitors  that  slew  him.”  The  peculiarities 
of  the  Scottish  dialect  are  well  illustrated  in  this  version. 

7.  Johannis  Capgrave  Liber  de  Illustribus  Henricis.  Edited  by  the 

Rev.  F.  C.  Htngeston,  M.A.  1858. 

The  first  part  relates  only  to  the  history  of  the  Empire  from  the  election  of  Henry  I. 
the  Powler,  to  the  end  of  the  reign  of  the  Emperor  Henry  VI.  The  second  part  is  devoted 
to  English  history,  from  the  accession  of  Henry  I.  in  1100,  to  1446,  which  was  the  twenty- 
fourth  year  of  the  reign  of  Henry  VI.  The  third  part  contains  the  lives  of  illustrious  men 
who  have  borne  the  name  of  Henry  in  various  parts  of  the  world. 

8.  Historia  Monasterii  S.  Augustini  Cantuariensis,  by  Thomas  of 

Elmham,  formerly  Monk  and  Treasurer  of  that  Foundation.  Edited 
by  Charles  Hardwick,  M.A.,  Fellow  of  St.  Catharine’s  Hall,  and 
Christian  Advocate  in  the  University  of  Cambridge.  1858. 

This  history  extends  from  the  arrival  of  St.  Augustine  in  Kent  until  1101. 

9.  Eulogium  (Historiarum  sive  Temporis)  :  Chronicon  ab  Orbe  condito 

usque  ad  Annum  Domini  1366  ;  a  monacho  quodam  Malmesbiriensi 
exaratum.  Vols.  I.,  II.,  and  III.  Edited  by  F.  S.  Haydon,  B.A. 
1858-1863. 

This  is  a  Latin  Chronicle  extending  from  the  Creation  to  the  latter  part  of  the  reign  of 
Edward  III.,  and  written  by  a  monk  of  Malmesbury,  about  the  year  1367.  A  continuation 
carries  the  history  of  England  down  to  the  year  1413. 

10.  Memorials  of  Henry  the  Seventh  :  Bernardi  Andrese  Tholosatis  Vita 
Regis  Henrici  Septimi ;  necnon  alia  qutedam  ad  eundem  Regem. 
spectantia.  Edited  by  James  G-airdner.  1858. 

The  contents  of  this  volume  are— (1)  a  life  of  Henry  VII.,  by  his  poet  Laureate  and 
historiographer,  Bernard  Andrb,  of  Toulouse,  with  some  compositions  in  ver>e,  of  which  he 
is  supposed  to  have  been  the  author ;  (2)  the  journals  of  Roger  Machado  during  certain 
embassies  to  Spain  and  Brittany,  the  first  of  which  had  reference  to  the  marriage  of  the 
King’s  son,  Arthur,  with  Catharine  of  Arragon  ;  (3)  two  curious  reports  by  envoys  sent  to 
Spain  in  1505  touching  the  succession  to  the  Crown  of  Castile,  and  a  project  of  marriage 
between  Henry  VII.  and  the  Queen  of  Naples;  and  (4)  an  account  of  Philip  of  Castile’s 
reception  in  England  in  1506.  Other  documents  of  interest  are  given  in  an  appendix. 

11.  Memorials  of  Henry  the  Fifth.  I. — Vita  Henrici  Quinti,  Roberto 
Redmanno  auctore.  II. — Versus  Rhytbmici  in  laudem  Regis  Henrici 
Quinti.  III. — Elmhami  Liber  Metricus  de  Henrico  V.  Edited  by 
Charles  A.  Cole.  1858. 

12.  Munimenta  Gildhallas  Londoniensis  ;  Liber  Albus,  Liber  Custu- 
maram,  et  Liber  Horn,  in  archivis  Gildballse  asservati.  Vol.  I., 
Liber  Albus.  Vol.  II.  (in  Two  Parts),  Liber  Custumarum.  Vol.  III., 
Translation  of  the  Anglo-Norman  Passages  in  Liber  Albus,  Glos¬ 
saries,  Appendices,  and  Index.  Edited  by  Henry  Thomas  Riley, 
M.A.,  Barrister-at-Law.  1859-1862. 

The  Liber  Albus,  compiled  by  John  Carpenter,  Common  Clerk  of  the  City  of  London  in 
the  year  1419,  gives  an  account  of  the  laws,  regulations,  and  institutions  of  that  City  in  the 
12th,  13th,  14th,  and  early  part  of  the  15th  centuries.  The  Liber  Custumarum  was  com¬ 
piled  in  the  early  part  of  the  14th  century  during  the  reign  of  Edward  II.  It  also  gives  an 
account  of  the  laws,  regulations,  and  institutions  of  the  City  of  London  in  the  12th,  13th, 
and  early  part  of  the  14th  centuries. 

13.  Chronica  Johannis  de  Oxenedes.  Edited  by  Sir  Henry  Ellis,  K.H, 
1859. 

Although  this  Chronicle  tells  of  the  arrival  of  Hengist  and  Horsa,  it  substantially  begins 
with  the  reign  of  King  Alfred,  and  comes  down  to  1292.  It  is  particularly  vniuabls  for 
notices  of  events  in  the  eastern  portions  of  the  Kingdom. 


11 


14.  A  Collection  of  Political  Poems  and  Songs  relating  to  English 
History,  from  the  Accession  of  Edward  III.  to  the  Reign  of 
Henry  YIII.  Yols.I.  and  II.  Edited  by  Thomas  Wright,  H.  A.  1859- 
1861. 

15.  The  “  Opus  Tertium,”  “Opus  Minus,”  &c.  of  Roger  Bacon.  Edited  by 
J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.,  Professor  of  English  Literature,  King’s  College, 
London.  1859. 

16.  BaRTHOLOMAH  DE  COTTON,  MONACHI  NORWICENSIS,  HlSTORIA  AnGLICANA  ; 
449-1298;  necnon  ejusdem  Liber  de  Achiepiscopis  et  Episcopis 
Angliae.  Edited  by  Henry  Richards  Luard,  M.A.,  Fellow  and 
Assistant  Tutor  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge,  1859. 

17.  Brut  y  Tywysogion;  or,  The  Chronicle  of  the  Princes  of  Wales. 
Edited  by  the  Rev.  John  Williams  ab  Ithel,  M.A.  1860. 

This  work,  written  in  the  ancient  Welsh  language,  begins  with  the  abdication  and 
death  of  Caedwala  at  Home,  in  the  year  681,  and  continues  the  history  down  to  the 
subjugation  of  Wales  by  Edward  I.,  about  the  year  1282. 

18.  A  Collection  of  Royal  and  Historical  Letters  during  tue  Reign  of 
Henry  IV.  1399-1404.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  F.  C.  Hingeston,  M.A.,  of 
Exeter  College,  Oxford.  1860. 

19.  The  Repressor  of  over  much  Blaming  of  the  Clergy.  By  Reginald 
Pecock,  sometime  Bishop  of  Chichester.  Yols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by 
the  Rev.  Churchill  Babington,  B.D.,  Fellow  of  St.  John’s  College, 
Cambridge.  1860. 

The  “  Repressor  ”  may  be  considered  the  earliest  piece  of  good  theological  disquisition 
of  which  our  English  prose  literature  can  boast.  The  author  was  born  about  the  end  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  consecrated  Bishop  of  St.  Asaph  in  the  year  1411,  and  translated  to  the 
see  of  Chichester  in  1450.  His  work  is  interesting  chiefly  because  it  gives  a  full  account  of 
the  views  of  the  Lollards,  and  it  has  great  value  for  the  philologist. 

20.  Annales  Cambria;.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  John  Williams  ab  Ithel,  M.A. 

1860. 

These  annals,  which  are  in  Latin,  commenced  in  447,  and  come  down  to  1288.  The 
earlier  portion  appears  to  be  taken  from  an  Irish  Chronicle  used  by  Tigemach,  and  by  the 
compiler  of  the  Annals  of  Ulster. 

21.  The  Works  of  Gtraldus  Cambrensis.  Yols.  I.-IY.  Edited  by  the 
Rev.  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.,  Professor  of  English  Literature,  King’s 
College,  London.  Yols.  V.-VII.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  James  F. 
Dimock,  M.A.,  Rector  of  Barnburgh,  Yorkshire.  Vol.  YIII.  Edited 
by  George  F.  Warner,  M.A.,  of  the  Department  of  MSS.,  British 
Museum.  1861-1891. 

These  volumes  contain  the  historical  works  of  Gerald  du  Barry,  who  lived  in  the  reigns 
of  Henry  II.,  Richard  I.,  and  John.  His  works  are  of  a  very  miscellaneous  nature,  both 
in  prose  and  verse,  and  are  remarkable  for  the  anecdotes  which  they  contain. 

The  Topographia  Hibernica  (in  Vol.  V.)  is  the  result  of  Giraldus’  two  visits  to  Ix-eland, 
the  first  in  1183,  the  second  in  1185-6,  when  he  accompanied  Prince  John  into  that  country. 
The  Expugnatio  Hibernica  was  written  about  1188,  and  may  be  regarded  rather  as  a  great 
epic  than  a  sober  relation  of  acts  occurring  in  his  own  days.  Vol.  VI.  contains  the  Itine¬ 
rarium  Kambrice  et  Descriptio  Kambrice ;  and  Vol.  VII.,  the  lives  of  S.  Remigius  and 
S.  Hugh.  Vol.  VIII.  contains  the  Treatise  I)e  Principum  Instructione,  and  an  Index  to 
Vols.  I.-1V.  and  VIII. 

22.  Letters  and  Papers  illustrative  of  the  Wars  of  the  English  in 
France  during  the  Reign  of  Henry  the  Sixth,  King  of  England. 
Vol.  I.,  and  Yol.  II.  (in  Two  Parts).  Edited  by  the  Rev.  Joseph 
Stevenson,  M.A.,  Vicar  of  Leigbtcn  Buzzard.  1861-1864. 

23.  The  Anglo-Saxon  Chronicle,  according  to  the  several  Original 
Authorities.  Yol.  I.,  Original  Texts.  Yol.  II.,  Translation.  Edited 
and  translated  by  Benjamin  Thorpe,  Member  of  the  Royal  Academy  of 
Sciences  at  Munich,  and  of  the  Society  of  Netherlandish  Literature  at 
Leyden.  1861. 

There  are  at  present  six  independent  manuscripts  of  the  Saxon  Chronicle,  ending  in 
diffeienc  years,  and  written  in  dilferent  parts  of  the  country.  In  this  edition,  the  text  of 
each  manuscript  is  printed  in  columns  on  the  same  page,  so  that  the  student  may  see  at  a 
glance  the  various  changes  which  occur  in  orthography. 


12 


24.  Letters  and  Papers  illustrative  of  the  Reigns  of  Richard  III.  and 
Henry  VII.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  James  G-airdner.  1861— 
1863. 

The  principal  contents  of  the  volumes  are  some  diplomatic  Papers  of  Richard  III., 
correspondence  between  Henry  VII.  and  Ferdinand  and  Isabella  of  Spain;  documents 
relating  to  Edmund  de  la  Pole,  Earl  of  Suffolk;  and  a  portion  of  the  correspondence  of 
James  IV.  of  Scotland.  • 

25.  Letters  of  Bishop  Grosseteste.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  Henry  Richards 
Luard,  M.A.,  Fellow  and  Assistant  Tutor  of  Trinity  College,  Cam¬ 
bridge.  1861. 

The  letters  of  Robert  Grosseteste  range  in  date  from  about  1210  to  1258,  and  relate  to 
various  matters  connected  not  only  with  the  political  history  of  England  during  the  reign 
of  Henry  III.,  but  with  its  ecclesiastical  condition.  They  refer  especially  to  the  diocese  of 
Lincoln,  of  which  Grosseteste  was  bishop. 

26.  Descriptive  Catalogue  of  Manuscripts  relating  to  the  History  of 
Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Vol.  I.  (in  Two  Parts) ;  Anterior  to  the 
Norman  Invasion.  {Out  of  Print).  Vol.  II.;  1066-1200.  Vol.  III. ; 
1200-1327.  By  Sir  Thomas  Duffus  Hardy,  D.C.L.,  Deputy  Keeper 
of  the  Records.  1862-1871. 

The  object  of  this  work  is  to  publish  notices  of  all  known  sources  of  .  British  history, 
both  printed  and  unprinted,  in  one  continued  sequence.  The  materials,  when  historical  (as 
distinguished  from  biographical) ,  are  arranged  under  the  year  in  which  the  latest  event  is 
recorded  in  the  chronicle  or  history,  and  not  under  the  period  in  which  its  author,  real  or 
supposed,  flourished.  Biographies  are  enumerated  under  the  year  in  which  the  person 
commemorated  died,  and  not  under  the  year  in  which  the  life  was  written.  A  brief 
analysis  of  each  work  has  been  added  when  deserving  it,  in  which  original  portions  are 
distinguished  from  mere  compilations.  A  biographical  sketch  of  the  author  of  each  piece 
has  been  added,  and  a  brief  notice  of  such  British  authors  as  have  written  on  historical 
subjects. 

27.  Royal  and  other  Historical  Letters  illustrative  of  the  Reign  of 
Henry  III.  Vol.  I.,  1216-1235.  Vol.  II.,  1236-1272.  Selected  and 
edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  W.  Shirley,  D.D.,  Regius  Professor  of  Ecclesi¬ 
astical  History,  and  Canon  of  Christ  Church,  Oxford.  1862-1866. 

28.  Chronica  Monasterii  S.  Albani. — 1.  Thomte  Walsingham  Historia 

Anglicana;  Vol.  I.,  1272-1381:  Vol.  II.,  1381-1422.  2.  Willelmi 
Risiianger  Chronica  et  Annales,  1259-1307.  3.  Johannis  de 

Trokelowe  et  Henrici  de  Blaneforde  Chronica  et  Annales  1259-1296 ; 
1307-1324;  1392-1406.  4.  Gesta  Abbatum  Monasterii  S.  Albani,  a 
Thoma  Walsingham,  regnante  Ricardo  Secundo,  ejusdem  Ecclesia 
Praecentore,  compilata;  Vol.  I.,  793-1290:  Vol.  II.,  1290-1349: 
Vol.  III ,  1349-1411.  5.  Johannis  Amundesiiam,  Monachi  Monasterii 
S.  Albani,  ut  videtur,  Annales  ;  Vols.  I.  and  II.  6.  Registra 
quorundam  Abbatum  Monasterii  S.  Albani,  qui  Saeculo  xvmo  floruere; 
Vol.I.,  Registrum  Abbatle  Johannis  Wuethamstede,  Abbatis  Monas¬ 
terii  Sancti  Albani,  iterum  susceptae  ;  Roberto  Blakeney,  Capellano, 

QUONDAM  ADSCRIPTUM  :  Vol.  II.,  REGISTRA  JOHANNIS  WHETHAMSTEDE, 

Willelmi  Albon,  et  Willelmi  Walingforde,  Abbatum  Monasterii 
Sancti  Ajlbani,  cum  Appendice,  continente  quasdam  Epistolas,  a 

JOUANNE  WHETHAMSTEDE  CONSCRIPTAS.  7.  YPODIGMA  NeUSTRIaE  A 

Thoma  Walsingham,  quondam  Monacho  Monasterii  S.  Albani, 
conscriptum.  Edited  by  Henry  Thomas  Riley,  M.A.,  Barrister-at-Law. 
1863-1876. 

In  the  first  two  volumes  is  a  History  of  England,  from  the  death  of  Henry  III.  to  the 
death  of  Henry  V.,  by  Thomas  Walsingham,  Precentor  of  St.  Albans. 

In  the  3rd  volume  is  a  Chronicle  of  English  History,  attributed  to  William  Risiianger, 
who  lived  in  the  reign  of  Edward  I.:  an  account  of  transactions  attending  the  award  of 
the  kingdom  of  Scotland  to  John  Balliol,  1291-1292,  also  attributed  to  William  Risiianger, 
but  on  no  sufficient  ground:  a  short  Chronicle  of  English  History,  1292  to  1300,  by  an 
unknown  hand  :  a  short  Chronicle  Willelmi  Rishanger  Gesta  Edwardi  Primi,  Regis  Anglia;, 
with  Annales  Regum  Anglia1,  probably  by  the  same  hand:  and  fragments  of  three 
Chronicles  of  English  History,  1285  to  1307. 

In  the  4th  volume  is  a  Chronicle  of  English  History,  1259  to  1296:  Annals  of  Edward  II., 
1307  to  1323,  by  John  de  Trokelowe,  a  monk  of  St.  Albans,  and  a  continuation  of  Troke- 
lowe’s  Annals,  1323, 1324,  by  Henry  de  Blaneforde :  a  full  Chronicle  of  English  History,  1392 
to  1406 ;  and  an  account  of  the  Benefactors  of  St.  Albans,  written  in  the  early  part  of  the 
15th  century. 

The  5th,  6th,  and  7th  volumes  contain  a  history  of  the  Abbots  of  St.  Albans,  793  to 
1411,  mainly  compiled  by  Thomas  Walsingham :  with  a  Continuation. 

The  8th and  9th  volumes,  in  continuation  of  the  Annals,  contain  a  Chronicle,  probably 
of  John  Amundesham,  a  monk  of  St,  Albans. 


13 


The  10th  and  11th  volumes  relate  especially  to  the  acts  and  proceedings  of  Abbots 
Whethamstede,  Albon,  and  Wallingford. 

The  12th  volume  contains  a  compendious  History  of  England  to  the  reign  of  Henry  V., 
and  of  Normandy  in  early  times,  also  by  Thomas  Walsingham,  and  dedicated  to  Henry  V. 

29.  Chronicon  Abbates  Eveshamensis,  Auctoribus  Dominico  Pbiore 
Eveshamle  et  Thoma  de  Marleberge  Abbate,  a  Fundatione  ad  Annum 
1213,  una  cum  Continuatione  ad  Annum  1418.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
W.  D.  Macray,  Bodleian  Library,  Oxford.  1863. 

The  Chronicle  of  Evesham  illustrates  the  history  of  that  important  monastery  from 
about  690  to  ill  8.  Its  chief  feature  is  an  autobiography,  which  makes  us  acquainted  with 
the  inner  daily  life  of  a  great  abbey.  Interspersed  are  many  notices  of  general,  personal, 
and  local  history. 

30.  Ricardi  de  Cirencestria  Speculum  Historiale  de  Gestis  Regum 
Anglia:.  Yol.  I.,  447-871.  Vol.  II.,  872-1066.  Edited  by  John  E.  B. 
Mayor,  M.A.,  Fellow  of  St.  John’s  College,  Cambridge.  1863-1869. 

Richard  of  Cirencester’s  history,  in  four  books,  extends  from  447  to  1066.  It  gives 
many  charters  in  favour  of  Westminster  Abbey,  and  a  very  full  account  of  the  lives  and 
miracles  of  the  saints,  especially  of  Edward  the  Confessor,  whose  reign  occupies  the  fourth 
book.  A  treatise  on  the  Coronation,  by  William  of  Sudbury,  a  monk  of  Westminster,  tills 
book  ii.  c.  3. 

31.  Year  Books  of  the  Reign  of  Edward  the  First.  Years  20-21,  21-22, 
30-31,  32-33,  and  33-35  Edw.  I;  and  11-12  Edw.  III.  Edited  and 
translated  by  Alfred  John  Horwood,  Barrister-at-Law.  Years  12-13, 
13-14,  14,  14-15,  and  15,  Edward  III.  Edited  and  translated  by  Luke 
Owen  Pike,  M.A.,  Barrister-at-Law.  1863-1891. 

The  “Tear  Books”  are  the  earliest  of  our  Law  Reports.  They  contain  matter  not 
only  of  practical  utility  to  lawyers  in  the  present  day,  bm  also  illustrative  of  almost  every 
branch  of  history,  while  for  certain  philological  purposes  they  hold  a  position  absolutely 
unique. 

32.  Narratives  of  the  Expulsion  of  the  English  from  Normandy,  1449- 
1450. — Robertus  Blondelii  de  Reductione  Normannise  :  Le  Recouvre- 
ment  de  Normendie,  par  Berry,  Herault  du  Roy:  Conferences  between 
the  Ambassadors  of  France  and  England.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  Joseph 
Stevenson,  M.A.  1863. 

33.  Historia  et  Cartularium  Monasterii  S.  Petri  Gloucester®.  Yols.  I., 
II.,  and  III.  Edited  by  W.  H.  Hart,  F.S.A.,  Membre  correspondantde 
la  Societe  des  Antiquaires  de  Normandie.  1863-1867. 

34.  Alexandri  Neckam  de  Naturis  Rerum  libri  duo;  with  Neckam's 
Poem,  De  Laudibus  Divina  Sapientia.  Edited  by  Thomas  Wright, 
M.A.  1863. 

In  the  De  Naturis  Eeruiu  are  to  be  found  what  may  be  called  the  rudiments 
of  many  sciences  mixed  up  with  much  error  and  ignorance.  N  eckam  had  his  own  views  in 
morals,  and  in  giving  us  a  glimpse  of  them,  as  well  as  of  his  other  opinions,  he  throws  much 
light  upon  the  manners,  customs,  and  general  tone  of  thought  prevalent  in  the  twelfth 
century. 

35.  Leechdoms,  Wortcunning,  and  Starcraft  of  Early  England  ;  being  a 
Collection  of  Documents  illustrating  the  History  of  Science  in  this 
Country  before  the  Norman  Conquest.  Yols.  1.-1II.  Collected 
and  edited  by  the  Rev.  T.  Oswald  Cockayne,  M.A.  1864-1866. 

36.  Annales  Monastici.  Yol.  I.: — Annales  de  Margan,  1066-1232  ; 
Annales  de  Theokesberia,  1066-1263  ;  Annales  de  Burton,  1004-1263. 
Yol.  II.: — Annales  Monasterii  de  Wintonia,  519-1277;  Annales 
Monasterii  de  Waverleia,  1-1291.  Yol.  Ill.: — Annales  Prioratus  de 
Dunstaplia,  1-1297.  Annales  Monasterii  de  Bermundeseia,  1042- 
1432.  Yol.lY.: — Annales  Monasterii  de  Obeneia,  1016-1347;  Chronieon 
vulgo  dictum  Chronieon  'J  homte  Wykes,  1066-1289;  Annales  Prioratus 
de  Wigornia,  1-1377.  Yol.  Y.  : — Index  and  Glossary.  Edited  by 
Henry  Richards  Luard,  M.A.,  Fellow  and  Assistant  Tutor  of  Trinity 
College,  and  Registrary  of  the  University,  Cambridge.  1864-1869. 

The  present  collection  embraces  chronicles  compiled  in  religious  houses  in  England 
during  the  thirteenth  century.  These  distinct  works  are  ten  in  number.  The  extreme 
period  wmch  they  embrace  ranges  from  the  year  1  to  1432. 


14 


37.  Magna  Yita  S.  Hugonis  Episcopi  Lincolniensis.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
James  F.  Dimock,  M.A.,  Rector  of  Barnburgh,  Yorkshire.  1864. 

This  work  is  valuable,  not  only  as  a  biography  of  a  celebrated  ecclesiastic  but  as  the 
work  of  a  man,  who,  from  personal  knowledge,  gives  notices  of  passing  events,  as  well  as  of 
individuals  who  were  then  taking  active  part  in  public  affairs. 

38.  Chronicles  and  Memorials  of  the  Reign  of  Richard  the  First. 
Yol.  I. : — Itinerarium  Peregrinorum  et  Gesta  Regis  RrcARDi.  Yol. 
II. : — Epistola  Cantuarienses  ;  the  Letters  of  the  Prior  and  Convent 
of  Christ  Church,  Canterbury;  1187  to  1199.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
William  Stubbs,  M.A.,  Yicar  of  Navestock,  Essex,  and  Lambeth 
Librarian.  1864-1865. 

The  authorship  of  the  Chronicle  in  Vol.  I.,  hitherto  ascribed  to  Geoffrey  Yinesauf,  is 
now  more  correctly  ascribed  to  Richard,  Canon  of  the  Holy  Trinity  of  London. 

In  letters  in  Vol.  II.,  written  between  1187  and  1199,  had  their  origin  in  a  dispute  which 
arose  from  the  attempts  of  Baldwin  and  Hubert,  archbishops  of  Canterbury,  to  found  a 
college  of  secular  canons,  a  project  which  gave  great  umbrage  to  the  monks  of  Canterbury. 

39.  Recueil  des  Croniques  et  anchiennes  Istories  de  la  Grant  Bretaigne 
a  present  nomme  Engleterre,  par  Jehan  de  Waurin.  Yol.  I.  Albina 
to  688.  Yol.  II.,  1399-1422.  Yol.  III.,  1422-1431.  Edited  by  William 
Hardy,  F.S.A.  1864-1879.  Yol.  1Y.,  1431-1447.  Yol.  Y.,  1447-1471. 
Edited  by  Sir  William  Hardy,  F.S.A.,  and  Edward  L.  C.  P.  Hardy, 
F.S.A.  1884-1891. 

40.  A  Collection  of  the  Chronicles  and  ancient  Histories  of  Great 
Britain,  now  called  England,  by  John  de  Waurin.  Yol.  I.,  Albina 
to  668.  Yol.  II.,  1399-1422.  Yol.  III.,  1422-1431.  (Translations  of 
the  preceding  Yols.  I.,  II.,  and  III.)  Edited  and  translated  by  Sir 
William  Hardy,  F.S.A.,  and  Edward  L.  C.  P.  Hardy,  F.S.A.  1864- 
1891. 

41.  Polychronicon  Ranulpiii  Higden,  with  Trevisa’s  Translation.  Yols.  I. 
and  II.  Edited  by  Churchill  Babington,  B.D.,  Senior  Fellow  of  St. 
John’s  College,  Cambridge  Yols.  III. -IX.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  Joseph 
Rawson  Lumby,  D.D.,  Norrisian  Professor  of  Divinity,  Yicar  of  St. 
Edward’s,  Fellow  of  St.  Catharine’s  College,  and  late  Fellow  of 
Magdalene  College,  Cambridge.  1865-1886. 

This  chronicle  begins  with  the  creation,  and  is  brought  down  to  the  reign  of 
Edward  III.  It  enables  us  to  form  a  very  fair  estimate  of  the  knowledge  of  history  and 
geography  which  well-informed  readers  of  the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries  possessed, 
for  it  was  then  the  standard  work  on  general  history. 

The  two  English  translations,  which  are  printed  with  the  original  Latin,  afford  in¬ 
teresting  illustrations  of  the  gradual  change  of  our  language,  for  one  was  made  in  the 
fourteenth  century,  the  other  in  the  fifteenth. 

42.  Le  Livere  de  Reis  de  Brittanie  e  Le  Livere  de  Reis  de  Engletere. 
Edited  by  the  Rev.  John  Glover,  M.A.,  Yicar  of  Brading,  Isle  of 
Wight,  formerly  Librarian  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge.  1865. 

These  two  treaties  are  valuable  as  careful  abstracts  of  previous  historians.  Some 
various  readings  are  given  which  are  interesting  to  the  philologist  as  instances  of  semi- 
Saxonised  French. 

43.  Chronica  Monasterii  de  Melsa  ab  anno  1150  usque  ad  annum  1406, 
Yols.  I.-III.  Edited  by  Edward  Augustus  Bond,  Assistant  Keeper 
of  Manuscripts,  and  Egerton  Librarian,  British  Museum.  1866- 
1868. 

The  Abbey  of  Meaux  was  a  Cistercian  house,  and  the  work  of  its  abbot  is  a  faithful  and 
often  minute  record  of  the  establishment  of  a  religious  community,  of  its  progress  in  form- 
ing  an  ample  revenue,  of  its  struggles  to  maintain  its  acquisitions,  and  of  its  relations  to 
the  governing  institutions  of  the  country. 

44.  Mattha:  Parisiensis  Historia  Anglorum,  sive,  ut  vulgo  dicitur,  His¬ 
toria  Minor.  Yols.  I.,  II.,  and  III.  1067-1253.  Edited  by  Sir 
Frederick  Madden,  K.H.,  Keeper  of  the  Manuscript  Department 
of  British  Museum ,  1866-1869. 

45.  Liber  Monasterii  de  Hyda  :  a  Chronicle  and  Chartulary  of  Hyde 
Abbey,  Winchester,  455-1023.  Edited  by  Edward  Edwards.  1866. 

The  “Book  of  Hyde”  is  a  compilation  from  much  earlier  sources  which  are  usually 
indicated  with  considerable  care  and  precision.  In  many  cases,  however,  the  Hyde 


15 


Chronicler  appears  to  correct,  to  qualify,  or  to  amplify  the  statements,  which,  in  substance, 
he  adopts. 

There  is  to  be  found,  in  the  “Book  of  Hyde,”  much  information  relating  to  the  reign  of 
King  Alfred  which  is  not  known  to  exist  elsewhere.  The  volume  contains  some  curious 
specimens  of  Anglo-Saxon  and  mediaeval  English. 

46.  Chronicon  Scotorum  :  a  Chronicle  of  Irish  Affairs,  from  the  earliest 
times  to  1135;  and  Supplement,  containing  the  Events  from  1141  to 
1150.  Edited,  with  Translation,  by  William  Maunsell  Hennessy, 

M.R.I.A.  1866. 

47.  The  Chronicle  of  Pierre  de  Langtoft,  in  French  Yerse,  from  the 
earliest  Period  to  the  Death  of  Edward  I.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited 
by  Thomas  Wright,  M.A.  1866-1868. 

It  is  probable  that  Pierre  de  Langtoft  was  a  canon  of  Bridlington,  in  Yorkshire,  and 
lived  in  the  reign  of  Edward  I.,  and  during  a  portion  of  the  reign  of  Edward  II.  This 
chronicle  is  divided  into  three  parts ;  in  the  first,  is  an  abridgment  of  Geoffrey  of  Mon¬ 
mouth’s  “  Historia  Britonum  ;  ”  in  the  second,  a  history  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  and  Norman 
kings,  to  the  death  of  Henry  III. ;  in  the  third,  a  history  of  the  reign  of  Edward  I.  The 
language  is  a  curious  specimen  of  the  French  of  Yorkshire. 

48.  The  War  of  tiie  Gaedhil  with  the  Gaill,  or  The  Invasions  of 
Ireland  by  the  Danes  and  other  Norsemen.  Edited,  with  a  Trans¬ 
lation,  by  the  Eev.  James  Henthorn  Todd,  D.D.,  Senior  Fellow  of 
Trinity  College,  and  Regius  Professor  of  Hebrew  in  the  University  of 
Dublin.  1867. 

The  work  in  its  present  form,  in  the  editor’s  opinion,  is  a  comparatively  modern  version 
of  an  ancient  original.  The  story  is  told  after  the  manner  of  the  Scandinavian  Sagas. 

49.  Gesta  Regis  IIenrici  Secundi  Benedicti  Abbatis.  Chronicle  of  the 
Reigns  of  Henry  II.  and  Richard  I.,  1169-1192,  known  under  the 
name  of  Benedict  of  Peterborough.  Yols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  the 
Rev.  William  Stubbs,  M.A.,  Regius  Professor  of  Modern  History, 
Oxford,  and  Lambeth  Librarian.  1867. 

50.  Munimenta  Academica,  or,  Documents  illustrative  of  Academical 
Life  and  Studies  at  Oxford  (in  Two  Parts).  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
Henry  Anstey,  M.A.,  Vicar  of  St.  Wendron,  Cornwall,  and  lately 
Yice-Principal  of  St.  Mary  Hall,  Oxford.  1868. 

51.  Chronica  Magistri  Rogeri  de  Houedene.  Yols.  I .-IV.  Edited  by 
the  Rev.  William  Stubbs,  M.A.,  Regius  Professor  of  Modern  History, 
and  Fellow  of  Oriel  College,  Oxford.  1868-1871. 

The  earlier  portion,  extending  from  732  to  1148,  appears  to  be  a  copy  of  a  compilation 
made  in  Northumbria  about  1161,  to  which  Hoveden  added  little.  Prom  1148  to  1169— a 
very  valuable  portion  of  this  work — the  matter  is  derived  from  another  source,  to  which 
Hoveden  appears  to  have  supplied  little.  Prom  1170  to  1192  is  the  portion  which  corre¬ 
sponds  to  some  extent  with  the  Chronicle  known  under  the  name  of  Benedict  of  Peter¬ 
borough  (.see  No.  49).  Prom  1192  to  1201  may  be  said  to  be  wholly  Hoveden’s  work. 

52.  Willelmi  Malmesbiriensis  Monachi  de  Gestis  Pontificum  Anglorum 
Libui  Quinque.  Editedby  N .  E.  S.  A.  Hamilton,  of  the  Department 
of  Manuscripts,  British  Museum.  1870. 

53.  Historic  and  Municipal  Documents  of  Ireland,  from  the  Archives 
of  the  City  of  Dublin,  &c.  1172-1320.  Edited  by  John  T.  Gilbert, 
F.S.A.,  Secretary  of  the  Public  Record  Office  of  Ireland.  1870. 

54.  The  Annals  of  Loch  CA  A  Chronicle  of  Irish  Affairs,  from  1041  to 
1590.  Yols.  I.  and  II.  Edited,  with  a  Translation,  by  William 
Maunsell  Hennessy,  M.R.I.A.  1871. 

55.  Monumenta  Juridica.  The  Black  Book  of  the  Admiralty,  with 
Appendices.  Vols.  I.-IV.  Edited  by  Sir  Travers  Twiss,  Q.C.,  D.C.L. 
1871-1876. ' 

This  book  contains  the  ancient  ordinances  and  laws  relating  to  the  navy. 

56.  Memorials  of  the  Reign  of  Henry  YI. : — Official  Correspondence  of 
Thomas  Bekynton,  Secretary  to  Henry  YI.,  and  Bishop  of  Bath  and 
Wells.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  George  Williams.  B.D.,  Vicar  of  Ring- 
wood,  late  Fellow  of  King’s  College,  Cambridge.  Yols.  I.  and  II. 
1872. 


16 


67.  Matthasi  Parisiensis,  Monachi  Sancti  Albani,  Chronica  Majora. 

Vol.  I.  The  Creation  to  A.D.  1066.  Vol.  II.  A.D.  1067  to  A.D.  1216 
Yol.  III.  A.D.  1216  to  A.D.  1239.  Yol.  IY.  A.D.  1240  to  A.D.  1247. 

Vol.  Y.  A.D.  1248  to  A.D.  1269.  Yol.  YI.  Additamenta.  Yol.  YII. 
Index.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  Henry  Richards  Luard,  D.D.,  Fellow  of 
Trinity  College,  Registrary  of  the  University,  and  Yicar  of  Great  St. 
Mary’s,  Cambridge.  1872-1884. 

68.  Memoriale  Fratris  Walteri  de  Coventria. — The  Historical  Collec¬ 
tions  oe  Walter  of  Coventry.  Yols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
William  Stubbs,  M.A.,  Regius  Professor  of  Modern  History,  and 
Fellow  of  Oriel  College,  Oxford.  1872-1873. 

The  part  relating  to  the  first  quarter  of  the  thirteenth  century  is  the  most  valuable. 

69.  The  Anglo-Latin  Satirical  Poets  and  Epigrammatists  of  the  Twelfth 
Century.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Collected  and  edited  by  Thomas  Wright, 
M.A.,  Corresponding  Member  of  the  National  Institute  of  France 
(Academie  de3  Inscriptions  et  Belles-Lettres).  1872. 

60.  Materials  k»  a  History  of  the  Reign  of  Henry  YII.,  from  original 
Documents  preserved  in  tiie  Public  Record  Office.  Yols.  I.  and  II. 
Edited  by  the  Rev.  William  Campbell,  M.A.,  one  of  Her  Majesty’s 
Inspectors  of  Schools.  1873-1877. 

61.  Historical  Papers  and  Letters  from  the  Northern  Registers.  Edited 
by  the  Rev.  James  Raine,  M.  A.,  Canon  of  York,  and  Secretary  of  the 
Surtees  Society.  1873. 

62.  Registrum  Palatinum  Dunelmense.  The  Register  of  Richard  de 
Kellawe,  Lord  Palatine  and  Bishop  of  Durham  ;  1311-1316.  Yols. 
I.-IV.  Edited  by  Sir  Thomas  Duffus  Hardy,  D.C.L.,  Deputy  Keeper 
of  the  Records.  1873-1878. 

63.  Memorials  of  Saint  Dunstan,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Edited  by 
the  Rev.  William  Stubbs,  M.A.,  Regius  Professor  of  Modern  History, 
and  Fellow  of  Oriel  College,  Oxford.  1874. 

64.  Chronicon  Anglle,  ab  Anno  Domini  1328  usque  ad  Annum  1388, 
Auctore  Monacho  quodam  Sancti  Albani.  Edited  by  Edward  Maunde 
Thompson,  Barristcr-at-Law,  Assistant  Keeper  of  the  Manuscripts  in 
the  British  Museum.  1874. 

66.  Thomas  Saga  Erkibyskups.  A  Life  of  Archbishop  Thomas  Becket, 
in  Icelandic.  Yols.  I.  and  II.  Edited,  with  English  Translation , 
Notes,  and  Glossary  by  M.  Eirikr  MagnOsson,  M.A.,  Sub-Librarian  of 
the  University  Library,  Cambridge.  1876-1884. 

66.  Radulpiii  de  Coggeshall  Chronicon  Anglicanum.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
Joseph  Stevenson,  M.A.  1875. 

67.  Materials  for  the  History  of  Thomas  Becket,  Archbishop  of  Canter¬ 
bury.  Vols.  I.-VI.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  James  Craigie  Robertson, 
M.A.,  Canon  of  Canterbury.  1875-1883.  Vol.  YII.  Edited  by  Joseph 
Brigstocke  Sheppard,  LL.D.  1885. 

The  first  volume  contains  the  life  of  that  celebrated  man,  and  the  miracles  after  his 
death,  by  William,  a  monk  of  Canterbury.  The  second,  the  life  by  Benedict  of  Peter¬ 
borough;  John  of  Salisbury  ;  Alan  of  Tewkesbury;  and  Edward  Grim.  The  third,  the  life 
by  William  Fitzstephen ;  and  Herbert  of  Bosham.  The  fourth,  anonymous  lives,  Quadri- 
logus,  &c.  The  fifth,  sixth,  and  seventh,  the  Epistles,  and  known  letters., 

68.  Radulfi  de  Diceto  Decani  Lundoniensis  Opera  Historica.  The 
Historical  Works  of  Master  Ralph  de  Diceto,  Deam  of  London. 
Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  William  Stubbs  M.A.,  Regius 
Professor  of  Modern  History,  and  Fellow  of  Oriel  College,  Oxford. 
1876. 

The  abbreviutiones  Chronicorum  extend  to  1147  and  the  Ymagir.es  Historiarum  to 

1201. 


17 


69.  Roll  or  the  Proceedings  oe  the  King’s  Council  in  Ireland,  for  a 
Portion  of  the  16th  Year  of  the  Reign  of  Richard  II.  13S2-93. 
Edited  by  the  Rev.  James  Graves,  A.B.  1877. 

70.  Henrici  de  Bracton  de  Legibus  et  Consuetudinibus  Anglle  Libri 
Quinque  in  Yarios  Tractatus  Distincti.  Vols.  I.-YI.  Edited  by  Sir 
Travers  Twiss,  Q.C.,  D.C.L.  1878-1883. 

71.  The  Historians  of  the  Church  of  York,  and  its  Archbishops.  Vols. 

I.  -III.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  James  Raine,  M.A.,  Canon  of  York, 
and  Secretary  of  the  Surtees  Society.  1879-1894. 

72.  Registrum  Malmesburiense.  Tiie  Register  of  Malmesbury  Abbey  ; 
Preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by 
the  Rev.  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.,  Preacher  at  the  Rolls,  and  Rector  of 
Toppesfield ;  and  Charles  Trice  Martin,  B. A.  1879-1880. 

73.  Historical  Works  of  Gervase  of  Canterbury.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited 
by  the  Rev.  William  Stubbs,  D.D. ;  Canon  Residentiary  of  St.  Paul’s, 
London ;  Regius  Professor  of  Modern  History  and  Fellow  of  Oriel 
College,  Oxford;  &c.  1879,  1880. 

74.  Henrici  Akchidiaconi  Huntendunensis  Hisioria  Anglorum.  The 
History  of  the  English,  by  Henry,  Archdeacon  of  Huntingdon,  from 
a.d.  55  to  a.d.  1154,  in  Eight  Books.  Edited  by  Thomas  Arnold,  M.A. 
1879. 

75.  The  Historical  Works  of  Symeon  of  Durham.  Vols.  I.  and  II. 
Edited  by  Thomas  Arnold,  M.A.  18<b2-1885. 

76.  Chronicle  of  the  Reigns  of  Edward  I.  and  Edward  II.  Vols.  I.  and 

II.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  William  Stubbs,  D.D.,  Canon  Residentiary  of 
St.  Paul’s,  London  ;  Regius  Professor  of  Modern  History,  and  Fellow 
of  Oriel  College,  Oxford,  &c.  1882,  1883. 

The  first  volume  of  these  Chronicles  contains  the  Annales  Londonienses  and  the 
Annales  Paulini :  the  second  1. — Commendatio  Lamentabilis  in  Transitu  magni  Regis 
Edwardi.  II. —  Gesta  Edwardi  de  Carnarvon  Auctore  Canonico  Bridlingtoniensi . 
III. — Monachi  cujusdam  Malmesberiensis  Vita  Edwardi  II.  IV. —  Vita  et  Mors 
Edwardi  II.,  conscripta  a  Thoma  de  la  Moore. 

77.  Registrum  Epistolarum  Fratris  Johannis  Peckham,  Archispiscofj. 
Cantu ariensis.  Vols.  I.-III.  Edited  by  Charles  Trice  Martin,  B.A., 
F.S.A.,  1882-1886. 

78.  Register  of  S.  Osmund.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  H.  Rich  Jones,  M.A., 
F.S.A.,  Canon  of  Salisbury,  Vicar  of  Bradford-on- Avon.  Vols.  I.  and 
II.  1883,  1884. 

This  Register  derives  its  name  from  containing  the  statutes,  rules,  and  orders  made  or 
compiled  by  S.  Osmund,  to  be  observed  in  the  Cathedral  and  diocese  of  Salisbury. 

79.  Chartulary  of  the  Abbey  of  Ramsey.  Vols.  I.-III.  Edited  by 
William  Henry  Hart,  F.S.A.,  and  the  Rey.  Ponsonby  Annesles 
Lyons.  1884-1893. 

80.  Chartularies  of  St.  Mary’s  Abbey,  Dublin,  with  the  Register  of  it3 
house  at  Dunbrody,  County  of  Wexford,  and  Annals  of  Ireland, 
1162-1370.  Edited  by  Joun  Thomas  Gilbert,  F.S.A..  M.R.I.A.  Vols. 
I.  and  II.  1884,  1885. 

81.  Eadmeri  Historia  Novorum  in  Anglia,  et  oruscuLA  duo  de  Vita  Sancti 
Anselmi  et  quibusdam  Miraculis  ejus.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  Martin 
Rule,  M.A.  1884. 

82.  Chronicles  of  tiie  Reigns  of  Stephen,  Henry  II.,  and  Richard  I. 
Vols.  1.-1V.  Edited  by  Richard  Howlett,  Barrisier-at-Law.  1884- 
1890. 

Vol.  I.  contains  Books  I.-IV.  of  the  Historia  Rcrum  Anglicarum  of  William  of  New¬ 
burgh.  '  Vol.  11.  contains  Book  V.  of  that  work,  the  continuation  of  the  same  to  A.P.  12»S, 
und  the  Draco  Nurmannicus  of  Etienne  de  Rouen. 

TJ  95617. 


b 


18 


Vol.  ill.  contains  the  Gesta  Stephani  Regis,  the  Chronicle  of  Richard  of  Hexham,  the 
Relatio  de  Standardo  of  St.  Aelred  of  Rievaulx,  the  poem  of  Jordan  Fantosme,  and  the 
Chronicle  of  Richard  of  Devizes. 

Vol.  IV.  contains  the  Chronicle  of  Robert  of  Tongni. 

83.  Chronicle  of  the  Abbey  of  Ramsey.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  William 
Dunn  Macray,  M.A.,  F.S.A.,  Rector  of  Ducklington,  Oxon.  1886. 

84.  Chronica  Rogeri  de  Wendover,  sive  Flores  Historiarum.  Vols.  I.- 
III.  Edited  by  Henry  Gay  Hewlett,  Keeper  of  the  Records  of  the 
Land  Revenue.  1886-1889. 

This  edition  gives  that  portion  only  of  Roger  of  Wendover’s  Chronicle  which  can  be 
accounted  an  original  authority. 

85.  The  Letter  Books  of  the  Monastery  of  Christ  Church,  Canterbury. 
Edited  by  Joseph  Brigstocke  Sheppard,  LL.D.  Yols.  I.-IIL,  1887- 
1889. 

The  Letters  printed  in  these  volumes  were  chiefly  written  between  1296  and  1338. 

86.  The  Metrical  Chronicle  of  Robert  of  Gloucester.  Edited  by 
William  Aldis  Wright,  M.A..  Senior  Fellow  of  Trinity  College,  Cam¬ 
bridge.  Parts  I.  and  II.,  1887. 

The  date  of  the  composition  of  this  Chronicle  is  placed  about  the  year  1300.  The 
writer  appears  to  have  been  an  eye  witness  of  many  events  which  he  describes.  The 
language  in  which  it  is  written  was  the  dialect  of  Gloucestershire  at  that  time. 

87.  Chronicle  of  Robert  of  Brunne.  Edited  by  Frederick  James 

Furnivall,  M.A.,  Barrister-at-Law.  Parts  I.  and  11.  1887. 

Robert  of  Brunne,  or  Bourne,  co.  Lincoln,  was  a  member  of  the  Gilbertine  Order 
established  at  Sempringham.  His  Chronicle  is  described  by  its  editor  as  a  work  of  fiction,  a 
contribution  not  to  English  history,  but  to  the  history  of  English. 

88.  Icelandic  Sagas  and  other  Historical  Documents  relating  to  tbe 
Settlements  and  Descents  of  tbe  Northmen  on  the  British  Isles. 
Yol.  I.  Orkneyinga  Saga,  and  Magnus  Saga.  Yol.  II.  Hakonar 
Saga,  and  Magnus  Saga.  Edited  by  Gudbrand  Vigfusson,  M.A. 
18^7.  Yols.  III.  and  IV.  Translations  of  the  above  by  Sir  George 
Webbe  Dasent,  D.C.L. 

89.  Tee  Tripartite  Life  of  St.  Patrick,  with  other  documents  relating 
to  that  Saint.  Edited  by  Whitley  Stokes,  LL.D.,  D.C.L.,  Honorary 
Fellow  of  Jesus  College,  Oxford  ;  and  Corresponding  Member  of  the 
Institute  of  France.  Parts  I.  and  II.  1887. 

90.  WlLLELMI  MONACHI  MaLMESBIRIENSIS  DE  ReGUM  GeSiIS  AnGLORUM 
libri  V. ;  et  Historic  Novellae,  libri  III.  Edited  by  William 
Stubbs,  D.D.,  Bishop  of  Oxford.  Yols.  1.  and  II.  1887-1889. 

91.  Lestorie  des  Engles  solum  Geffrei  Gaimar.  Edited  by  tbe  late  Sir 
Thomas  Duffus  Hardy,  D.C.L.,  Deputy  Keeper  of  the  Records; 
continued  and  translated  by  Charles  Trice  Martin,  B  A.,  F.S.A. 
Yols.  I.  and  II  1888-1889. 

92.  Chronicle  of  Henry  Knighton,  Canon  of  Leicester.  Edited  by  the 
Rev.  Joseph  Rawson  Lumby,  D.D.,  Norrisian  Professor  of  Divinity. 
Yols.  I.  and  II.  1889-1895 

93.  Chronicle  of  Adam  Murimutii,  with  the  Chronicle  of  Robert  of 
Avesbury.  Edited  by  Edward  Maunde  Thompson,  LL.D.,  F.S.A. 
Principal  Librarian  and  Secretary  of  the  British  Museum.  1889. 

94.  Chartulary  of  the  Abbey  of  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr,  Dublin. 
Edited  by  John  Tuomas  Gilbert,  F.S.A.,  M.I.R.A.  1889. 

95.  Flores  Historiarum.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  II.  R.  Luard,  D.D.,  Fellow 
of  Trinity  College  and  Registi  ary  of  the  University,  Cambridge. 
Yol.  1.  The  creation  to  a. d.  1066.  Vol.  II.  a. d.  1067-1264.  Vol.  Ill 
a.d.  1265-1326.  1890. 


19 


96.  Memorials  of  St.  Edmund’s  Abbey.  Edited  by  Thomas  Arnold,  M. A., 
Fellow  of  the  Royal  University  of  Ireland.  Yols.  I.-III.  1890 — 
1896. 

97.  Charters  and  Documents,  illustrating  the  History  of  the  Cathedral 
and  City  of  Sarum,  1100-1300  ;  forming  an  Appendix  to  the  Register 
of  S.  Osmund.  Selected  by  the  late  Rev.  W.  H.  Rich  Jones,  M.A., 
F.S.A.,  and  edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  D.  Macray,  M.A.,  F.S.A.,  Rector 
of  Ducklington.  1891. 

98.  Memoranda  de  Parliamento,  25  Edward  I.  1305.  Edited  by  F.  W. 
Maitland,  M.A.  1893. 


In  the  Press. 

Year  Books  of  the  Reign  of  Edward  III.  Edited  and  translated  by  Luke 
Owen  Pike,  M.A.  Barrister-at-Law, 

Ranulf  de  Glanvill;  Tractatus  de  legibus  et  consuetudinibus  Anglie, 
&c.  Edited  and  translated  by  Sir  Travers  Twiss,  Q.C.,  D.C.L. 

The  Red  Book  of  tue  Exchequer.  Edited  by  Hubert  Hall,  F.S.A.,  of 
the  Public  Record  Office.  Parts  I.-III. 


♦ 


b  2 


20 


PUBLICATIONS  OF  THE  RECORD  COMMISSIONERS, 

[In  boards  or  clofcli.  Volumes  not  mentioned  in  this  list  are  out  of  print.] 


Rotulorum  Originalium  in  Curia  Scaccarii  Abbreviatio.  Hen.  III. — 
Edw.  III.  Edited  by  Henry  Playford.  2  Vols.  folio  (1805-1810). 
125.  6 d.  each. 

Librorum  Manuscriftorum  Bibliothecae  Harleianae  Catalogus.  Yol.  4. 

Edited  by  the  Rev.  T.  Hartwell  Horne.  Folio  (1812),  18s. 

Abbreviatio  Placitorum.  Richard  I. — Edward  II.  Edited  by  the  Right  Hon. 

George  Rose  and  W.  Illingworth.  1  Vol.  folio  (1811),  18s. 

Libri  Censualis  vocati  Domesday-Book,  Indices.  Edited  by  Sir  Henry  Ellis. 

Folio  (1816),  (Domesday-Book,  Vol.  3).  21s. 

Libri  Censualis  vocati  Domesday-Book,  Additamenta  ex  Codic.  Antiquiss. 

Edited  by  Sir  Henry  Ellis.  Folio  (1816),  (Domesday-Book,  Vol.  4).  21s. 

Statutes  of  the  Realm.  Edited  by  Sir  T.  E.  Tomlins,  John  Raithby,  John 
Caley  and  Wm.  Elliott.  Vols.  10  and  11,  folio  (1824-1828).  Indices, 
30s.  each. 

Valor  Ecclesiasticus,  temp.  Hen.  VIII.,  Auctoritate  Regia  institutus.  Edited  by 
John  Caley,  Esq.,  and  the  Rev.  Joseph  Hunter.  Vols.  5  to  6,  folio  (1825- 
1834).  25s.  each.  The  Introduction,  separately,  8vo.  2s.  6 d. 

Foedera,  Conventiones,  Litterae,  &c.  ;  or,  Rymer’s  Fiedera,  New  Edition,  folio. 

Edited  by  John  Caley  and  Fred.  Holbrooke.  Vol.  4,  1377-1383  (I860).  6s. 
Ducatus  Lancastriae  Calendarium  Inquisitionum  post  Mortem,  &c.  Part  3. 
Calendar  to  Pleadings,  &c..  Hen.  VII. — 13  Eliz.  Part  4,  Calendar  to  Pleadings, 
to  end  of  Eliz.  (1827-1834.)  Edited  by  R.  J.  Harper,  John  Caley,  and 
Wm.  Minchin.  Folio.  Part  4  (or  Vol.  3),  21s. 

Calendars  of  the  Proceedings  in  Chancery,  Eliz.  ;  with  Examples  of  Pro¬ 
ceedings  from  Ric.  II.  •  Edited  by  John  Bayley.  Vol.  3  (1832),  folio,  21s. 
Rotuli  Litterarum  Clausarum  in  Turri  Londinensi  asservati.  2  Vols.  folio 
(1833,  1844).  Edited  by  Thomas  Duffus  Hardy,  Esq.  Vol.  2,  1224-1227. 
18s. 

Proceedings  and  Ordinances  of  the  Privy  Council  of  England.  10  Ric.  II. — 
33  Hen,  VIII.  Edited  by  Sir  Nicholas  Harris  Nicolas.  7  Vols.  royal  8vo. 
(1834-1837).  14s.  each.  {Vol.  1  out  of  print.') 

Rotuli  Litterarum  Patentium  in  Turri  Lond.  asservati.  1201-1216.  Edited 
by  T.  Duffus  Hardy.  1  Vol.  folio  (1835),  31s.  6 d.  The  Introduction, 
separately,  8vo.  9s. 

Rotuli  Curue  Regis.  Rolls  and  Records  of  the  Court  held  before  the  King’s 
Justiciars  or  Justices.  6  Richard  1. — 1  John.  Edited  by  Sir  Francis  Palgrave. 
Vol.  2  royal  8vo.  (1835).  14s. 

Rotuli  Normannle  in  'Turri  Lond.  asservati.  1200-1205;  1417-1418.  Edited 
by  Thomas  Duffus  Hardy.  1  Vol.  royal  8vo.  (1835).  12s.  6 d. 

Rotuli  de  Oblahs  et  Finibus  in  Turri  Lond.  asservati,  temp.  Regis  Johannis. 

Edited  by  Thomas  Duffus  Hardy.  1  Vol.  royal  8vo.  (1835).  18s. 

Excerpta  e  Rotulis  Finium  in  Turri  Londinensi  asservatis.  Henry  III. 
1216-1272.  Edited  by  Charles  Roberts.  2  Vols.  royal  8vo.  (1835,  1836)  • 
Vol.  1,  14s.  Vol.  2,  18s. 

Fines,  sive  Pedes  Finium:  sive  Finales  Concordia  in  Curia  Domini  Regis. 
7  Richard  I. — 16  John,  1195 — 1214.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  Joseph  Hunter.  In 
Counties.  2  Vols.  royal  8vt>.  (1835-1844)  ;  Vol.  1,  8s.  6^. ;  Vol.  2,  2s.  6 d. 
Ancient  Kalendars  and  Inventories  of  i»ie  Treasury  of  His  Majesty’s 
Exchequer  ;  with  Documents  illustrating  its  History.  Edited  by  Sir  Francis 
Palgrave.  3  Vols.  royal  8vo.  ( 1836).  42s. 

Documents  and  Records  illustrating  the  History  of  Scotland,  and  Transactions 
between  Scotland  and  England ;  preserved  in  the  Treasury  of  Her  Majestv’s 
Exchequer.  Edited  by  Sir  Francis  Palgrave.  1  Vol.  royal  8vo.  (1837). 
Rotuli  Chartarum  in  Turri  Londinensi  asservati.  1190-1216.  Edited  by 
Thomas  Duffus  Hardy.  1  Vol.  folio  (1837).  30s.  J 

Report  of  the  Proceedings  of  the  Record  Commissioners,  1831-1837  1  V ol 

fol,  (1837).  8s. 

Registrum  vulgariter  nuncupatum  “  The  Record  of  Caernarvon,”  e  codice  MS. 
Hurleiano,  696,  descriptum.  Edited  by  Sir  Henry  Elli3.  1  Vol.  folio  (1838). 


21 


Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  England  ;  comprising  Laws  enacted  under  the 
Anglo-Saxon  Kings,  with  Translation  of  the  Saxon ;  the  Laws  called  Edward 
Confessor’s  ;  the  Laws  of  William  the  Conqueror,  and  those  ascribed  to  Henry  I.; 
Monumenta  Ecclesiastica  Anglicana,  from  7th  to  10th  century ;  and  Ancient 
Latin  Version  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  Laws.  Edited  by  Benjamin  Thorpe.  1  Vol. 
folio,  40s.  2  Yols.  royal  8vo.,  30s.  {Vol.  1  is  out  of  print.) 

Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Wales;  comprising  Laws  supposed  to  be 
enacted  by  Howel  the  Good,  modified  by  Regulations  prior  to  the  Conquest  by 
Edward  I. ;  and  anomalous  Laws,  principally  of  Institutions  which  continued  in 
force.  With  translation.  Also,  Latin  Transcripts,  containing  Digests  of  Laws, 
principally  of  the  Dimetian  Code.  Edited  by  Aneurin  Owen.  1  Vol.  folio 
(1841),  44s.  2  Yols.  royal  8vo.,  36s. 

Rotuli  de  Liberate  ac  de  Misis  et  Pr.estitis,  Regnante  Johanne.  Edited  by 
Thomas  Duffus  Hardy.  1  Vol.  royal  8vo.  (1844).  Gs. 

The  Great  Rolls  of  the  Pipe,  2,  3,  4  Hen.  II.,  1155-1158.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
Joseph  Hunter.  1  Vol.  royal  8vo.  (1844).  4s.  6 d. 

The  Great  Roll  of  the  Pipe,  1  Ric.  I.,  1189-1190.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  Joseph 
Hunter.  1  Vol.  royal  8vo.  (1844).  6s. 

Documents  Illustrative  of  English  History  in  the  13th  and  14th  centuries,  from 
the  Records  of  the  Queen’s  Remembrancer  in  the  Exchequer.  Edited  by 
Henry  Cole.  1  Vol.  fcp.  folio  (1844).  45s.  6 d. 

Modus  Tenendi  Parliamentum.  An  Ancient  Treatise  on  the  Mode  of  holding  the 
Parliament  in  England.  Edited  by  Thomas  Duffus  Hardy.  1  Vol.  8vo. 
(1846).  2s.  iid. 

Registrum  Magni  Sigilli  Reg.  Scot,  in  Archivis  Publicis  asservatum.  Vol.  1, 
1306-1424.  ( For  continuation  seep.  33.)  Edited  by  Thomas  Thomson. 

Folio  (1814).  10s.  f d. 

Acts  of  the  Parliaments  of  Scotland.  Folio  (1814-1875).  Edited  by  Thomas 
Thomson  and  Cosmo  Innes.  Vol.  1,  42s.  Vols.  5  and  6  (in  three  Parts),  21s. 
each  Part;  Vols.  7,  8,  9,  10,  and  11,  10s.  6 d.  each;  Vol.  12  (Index),  63s.  Orv 
12  Volumes  in  13,  12/.  12s. 

Acts  of  the  Lords  Auditors  of  Causes  and  Complaints  (Acta  Dominorum 
Auditorum).  1466-1494.  Edited  by  Thomas  Thomson.  Fol.  (1839).  10s.  6d. 

Acts  of  the  Lords  of  Council  in  Civil  Causes  (Acta  Dominorum  Concilii). 
1478-1495.  Edited  by  Thomas  Thomson.  Folio  (1839).  10s.  6 d. 

Issue  Roll  of  Thomas  de  Brantingham,  Bishop  of  Exeter,  Lord  High  Treasurer, 
containing  Payments  out  of  the  Revenue,  44  Edw.  III.,  1376.  Edited  by 
Frederick  Devon.  1  Vol.  royal  8vo.,  25s. 

Issues  of  the  Exchequer,  James  I.;  from  the  Pell  Records.  Edited  by 
Frederick  Devon,  Esq.  1  Vol.  4to.  (1836),  30s.  Or,  royal  8vo.,  21s. 

Issues  of  the  Exchequer,  Henry  III. — Henry  VI. ;  from  the  Pell  Records.  Edited 
by  Frederick  Devon.  1  Vol.  royal  8vo.,  30s. 

Handbook  to  the  Public  Records.  By  F.  S.  Thomas,  Secretary  of  the  Public 
Record  Office.  1  Vol.  royal  8vo.  (1853).  12s. 

Historical  Notes  relative  to  the  History  of  England.  Henry  VIII  — Anne 
(1509-1714).  A  Book  of  Reference  for  ascertaining  the  Dates  of  Events.  By 
F.  S.  Thomas.  3  Vols.  8vo.  (1856).  40s. 

State  Papers,  during  the  Reign  of  Henry  the  Eighth  :  with  Indices  of  Persons 
and  Places.  11  Vols.  4to.  (1830-1852),  10s  6 d.  each. 

Vol.  I. — Domestic  Correspondence. 

Vols.  II.  &  III- — Correspondence  relating  to  Ireland. 

Vols.  IV.  &  V. — Correspondence  relating  to  Scotland. 

Vols.  VI.  to  XI. — Correspond  nee  between  England  and  Foreign  Courts. 


REPORTS  ON  THE  UTRECHT  PSALTER. 

The  Athanasian  Creed  in  connexion  with  the  Utrecht  Psalter  ;  being  a 
Report  to  the  Right  Honourable  Lord  Romilly,  Master  of  the  Rolls,  on  a  Manu¬ 
script  in  the  University  of  Utrecht,  by  Sir  Thomas  Duffus  Hardy,  D.C.L.,  Deputy 
Keeper  of  the  Public  Records.  1872.  4to.  44  pp.  2  fac-similes  half  bound. 
Price  20s. 

Further  Report  on  the  Utrecht  Psalter  ;  in  answer  to  the  Eight  Report  made 
to  the  Trustees  of  the  British  Museum,  and  edited  by  the  Dean  of  Westminster. 
By  Sir  Thomas  Duffus  Hardy,  D.C.L.,  Deputy  Keeper  of  the  Public  Records, 
1874.  4to.  80  pp.  half  bound.  Price  ]0s. 


22 


WORKS  PUBLISHED  IN  PHOTOZINCOGRAPHY. 


DomesdatBook,  or  the  Great  Survey  ofEngland  of  William  the  Conqueror, 
1088  ;  fac-simile  of  the  Part  relating  to  each  county,  separately  (with  a 
few  exceptions  of  double  counties).  Photozincographed  at  the 
Ordnance  Survey  Office,  Southampton,  by  Colonel  Sir  Henry  James, 
R.E.,  F.R.S.,  &c.,  Director-General  of  the  Ordnance  Survey,  under 
the  Superintendence  of  W.  Basevi  Sanders,  an  Assistant  Record 
Keeper.  35  Parts,  imperial  quarto  and  demy  quarto  (1861-1863), 
boai  ds. 

Domesday  Survey  is  in  two  parts  or  volumes.  The  first  in  folio,  con¬ 
tains  the  counties  of  Bedford,  Berks,  Bucks,  Cambridge,  Chester,  and 
Lancaster,  Cornwall,  Derby,  Devon,  Dorset,  Gloucester,  Hants,  Hereford, 
Herts,  Huntingdon,  Kent,  Leicester  and  Rutland,  Lincoln,  Middlesex, 
Northampton,  Nottingham,  Oxford,  Salop,  Somerset,  Stafford,  Surrey, 
Sussex,  Warwick,  Wilts,  Worcester,  and  York.  The  second  volume,  in 
quarto,  contains  the  counties  of  Essex,  Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 

Domesday  Book  was  printed  verbatim  ct  literatim  during  the  last  century, 
in  consequence  of  an  address  of  the  House  of  Lords  to  King  George  III. 
in  1767.  It  was  not,  however,  commenced  until  1773,  and  was  completed 
early  in  1783.  In  1860,  Her  Majesty’s  Government  with  the  concurrence 
of  the  Master  of  the  Rolls,  determined  to  apply  the  art  of  photozincography 
to  the  production  of  a  fac-simile  of  Domesday  Book. 


Title. 

Price. 

In  Great  Domesday  Book. 

£ 

s. 

1 

d. 

Bedfordshire 

0 

8 

0 

Berkshire  - 

0 

8 

0 

Buckingham 

0 

8 

0 

Cambridge 

0 

10 

0 

Cheshire  and  Lancashire  - 

0 

8 

0 

Cornwall  -  -  - 

0 

8 

0 

Derbyshire 

0 

8 

0 

Devonshire 

0 

10 

0 

Dorsetshire 

0 

8 

o 

Gloucestershire 

0 

8 

0 

Hampshire 

0 

10 

0 

Herefordshire 

0 

8 

0 

Hertfordshire 

0 

10 

0 

Huntingdonshire  - 
Kent  ( out  of  print) 
Lancashire  (see  Cheshire 
and  Lancashire) 
Leicestershire  and  Rut- 

0 

8 

0 

0 

8 

0 

landslnre 

0 

8 

0 

Lincolnshire 

1 

1 

0 

Carried  forward 

7 

17 

0 

Title. 


Price. 


Brought  forward 
Middlesex 
Nottinghamshire  - 
Northamptonshire 
Oxfordshire 

Rutlandshire  (hound  with 
Leicestershire) 
Shropshire  ( out  of  print) 
Somersetshire 
Staffordshire 
Surrey  - 

Sussex  ... 
Warwickshire 
Wiltshire 
Worcestershire  - 
Yorkshire 

In  Little  Domesday  Booh. 

Norfolk  - 
Suffolk  - 

Essex  ... 


£  s. 
7  17 
0  8 
0  10 
0  8 
0  8 


0  8 
0  10 
0  8 
0  8 
0  10 
0  8 
0  10 
0  8 
1  1 


1  3 
1  2 

0  16 


Total 


£17  3 


d. 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 


0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

o  : 


0 

0 

0 


0 


Fac-similes  of  National  Manuscripts,  from  William  the  Conqueror  to 
Queen  Anne,  selected  under  the  direction  of  the  Master  of  the  Rolls 
and  Photozincographed,  by  Command  of  Her  Majesty,  by  Colonel 
Sir  Henry  James,  R.E.,  F.R.S.,  Director-General  of  the  Ordnance 
Survey,  and  edited  by  W.  Basevi  Sanders,  an  Assistant  Record 
Keeper.  Brice,  each  Part,  with  translations  and  notes,  double 
foolscap  folio,  16s. 

Part  I.  (William  the  Conqueror  to  Henry  YII.).  1865.  ( Oat  of 
print.) 

Part  II.  (Henry  YII.  and  Edward  YL).  1866. 


23 


Part  III.  (Mary  and  Elizaboth).  1867. 

Part  IY.  (James  I.  to  Anne).  1868. 

The  first  Part  extends  from  William  the  Conqueror  to  Henry  VII.,  and 
contains  autographs  of  the  kings  of  England,  as  well  as  of  many  other 
illustrious  personages  famous  in  history,  and  some  interesting  charters, 
letters  patent,  and  state  papers.  The  second  Part  for  the  reigns  of 
Henry  VIII.  and  Edward  VI.,  consists  principally  of  holograph  letters, 
and  autographs  of  kings,  princes,  statesmen,  and  other  persons  of  great 
historical  interest,  who  lived  during  those  reigns.  The  third  Part  contains 
similar  documents  for  the  reigns  of  Mary  and  Elizabeth,  including  a 
signed  hill  of  Lady  Jane  Grey.  The  fourth  Part  concludes  the  series, 
and  comprises  a  number  of  documents  taken  from  the  originals  belonging 
to  the  Constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  ;  also  several  records  illustrative 
of  the  Gunpowder  Plot,  and  a  woodcut  containing  portraits  of  Mary  Queen 
of  Scots  and  James  VI.,  circulated  by  their  adherents  in  England,  1580-3. 

Fac-similes  of  Anglo-Saxon  Manuscripts.  Photozincographed,  by  Com¬ 
mand  of  Her  Majesty,  upon  the  recommendation  of  the  Master  of  the 
Rolls, by  the  Director-General  of  theORDNANCE  Survey,  Lieut.- General 
J.  Cameron,  R.E.,  C.B.,  F.R.S.,  and  edited  by  W.  Basevi  Sanders,  an 
Assistant  Record  Keeper.  Part  I.  Price  21.  10s. 

The  Anglo-Saxon  MSS.  represented  in  this  volume  from  the  earlier  por¬ 
tions  of  the  collection  of  archives  belonging  to  the  Dean  and  Chapter  of 
Canterbury,  and  consist  of  a  series  of  25  charters,  deeds,  and  wills,  com¬ 
mencing  with  a  record  of  proceedings  at  the  first  Synodal  Council  of 
Clovestho  in  742,  and  terminating  with  the  first  part  of  a  tripartite 
chirograph  of  the  sixth  year  of  the  reign  of  Edward  the  Confessor. 

Fac-similes  op  Anglo-Saxon  Manuscripts.  Photozincographed,  by  Com¬ 
mand  of  Her  Majesty,  upon  the  recommendation  of  the  Master  of  the 
Rolls, by  the  Director-General  of  the  Ordnance  Survey,  Major-General 
A.  Cooke,  R.E.,  C.B.,  and  collected  and  edited  by  W.  Basevi  Sanders, 
an  Assistant  Record  Keeper.  Part  II.  Price  31. 10s. 

(Also,  separately.  Edward  the  Confessor’s  Charter.  Price  2s.) 

The  originals  of  the  Fac-similes  contained  in  this  volume  belong  to  the 
Deans  and  Chapters  of  Westminster,  Exeter,  Wells,  Winchester,  and 
Worcester;  the  Marquis  of  Bath,  the  Earl  of  Ilchester,  Winchester 
College,  Her  Majesty’s  Public  Record  Office,  Bodleian  Library,  Somerset¬ 
shire  Archaeological  and  National  History  Society’s  Museum  in  Taunton 
Castle,  and  William  Salt  Library  at  Stafford.  They  consist  of  charters 
and  other  documents  granted  by,  or  during  the  reigns  of,  Baldred, 
fEthelred,  Offa,  and  Burgred,  Kings  of  Mercia ;  Uhtred  of  the  Huiccas, 
Ceadwalla  and  Ini  of  Wessex  ;  Athelwulf,  Eadward  the  Elder,  fEthelstan, 
Eadmund  the  First,  Eadred,  Eadwig,  Eadgar,  Eadward  the  Second, 
iEthelred  the  Second,  Cnut,  Eadward  the  Confessor,  and  William  the 
Conqueror,  embracing  altogether  a  period  of  nearly  four  hundred  years. 

Fac-similes  of  Anglo-Saxon  Manuscripts.  Photozincographed,  by  Com¬ 
mand  of  Her  Majesty,  upon  the  recommendation  of  the  Master  of  the 
Rolls,  by  the  Director-General  of  the  Ordnance  Survey,  Colonel  R.  H. 
Stotherd,  R.E.,  C.B.,  and  collected  and  edited  by  W.  Basevi  Sanders, 
an  Assistant  Keeper  of  Her  Majesty’s  Records.  Part  III.  Price  61.  6s. 

This  volume  contains  fac-similes  of  the  Ashburnham  collection  of 
Anglo-Saxon  Charters,  & c.,  including  King  Alfred’s  Will.  The  MSS. 
represented  in  it,  range  from  A.I).  697  to  A.D.  1161, being  charters,  wills, 
deeds,  and  reports  of  Synodal  transactions  during  the  reigns  of  Kings 
Wihtred  of  Kent,  Offa,  Eardwulf,  Coenwulf,  Cuthred,  Beornwulf, 
iEthelwulf,  Ailfred,  Eadward  the  Elder,  Eadmund,  Eadred,  Queen 
Eadgifu,  and  Kings  Eadgar,  AEthelred  the  Second,  Cnut,  Henry  the  First, 
and  Henry  the  Second.  In  addition  to  these  are  two  belonging  to  the 
Marquis  of  Anglesey,  one  of  them  being  the  Foundation  Charter  cf  Burton 
Abbey  by  iEthelred  the  Second  with  the  testament  of  its  great  bene¬ 
factor  Wulfric. 


24 


HISTORICAL  MANUSCRIPTS  COMMISSION. 


REPORTS  OE  THE  ROYAL  COMMISSIONERS  APPOINTED  TO  INQUIRE  WHAT 
PAPERS  AND  MANUSCRIPTS  BELONGING  TO  PRIVATE  FAMILIES  AND 
INSTITUTIONS  ARE  EXTANT  WHICH  WOULD  BE  OF  UTILITY  IN  THE 
ILLUSTRATION  OF  HISTORY,  CONSTITUTIONAL  LAW,  SCIENCE  AND 
GENERAL  LITERATURE. 


Date. 


Size. 


1870 

(Be 

printed 

1874.) 


First  Report,  with  Appendix 
Contents :  — 

England.  House  of  Lords  ;  Cambridge 
Colleges  ;  Abingdon  and  other  Cor¬ 
porations,  &c. 

Scotland.  Advocates’  Library,  Glas¬ 
gow  Corporation,  &c. 

Ireland.  Dublin,  Cork,  and  other  Cor¬ 
porations,  &c. 


1871 


Second  Report,  with  Appendix  and 
Index  to  the  First  and  Second  Re¬ 
ports  - 
Contents : — 

England.  House  of  Lords  ;  Cam¬ 
bridge  Colleges  ;  Oxford  Colleges ; 
Monastery  of  Dominican  Friars  at 
Woodcbester,  Duke  of  Bedford, 
Earl  Spencer,  &c. 

Scotland.  Aberdeen  and  St.  An¬ 
drew’s  Universities,  &c. 

Ireland.  Marquis  of  Ormonde ; 
Dr.  Lyons,  &c. 


1672 

(Re-  ! 
printed 
1695.) 


1873 


Third  Report,  with  Appendix  and 
Index  - 
Contents  : — 

England.  House  of  Lords ;  Cam¬ 
bridge  Colleges  ;  Stonyhurst  Col¬ 
lege  ;  Bridgewater  and  other  Cor¬ 
porations ;  Duke  of  Northumber¬ 
land,  Marquis  of  Lansdowne,  Mar¬ 
quis  of  Bath  £tc. 

Scotland.  University  of  Glasgow ; 
Duke  of  Montrose,  Sec. 

Ireland.  Marquis  of  Ormonde; 
Black  Book  of  Limerick,  &c. 

Fourth  Report,  with  Appendix. 
Part  I. 

Contents:  — 

England.  House  of  Lords ;  West¬ 
minster  Abbey ;  Cambridge  and 
Oxford  Colleges ;  Cinque  Ports, 
llythe,  and  other  Corporations, 
Marquis  of  Bath,  Earl  of  Denbigh, 
&c. 

Scotland.  Duke  of  Argyll,  & c. 

Ireland.  Trinity  College,  Dublin; 
Marquis  of  Ormonde. 


f’cap 


99 


99 


99 


Price. 


[C.  55] 


s.  d. 

i  a 


[C.  441] 


3  10 


[C.  673] 


6  0 


[C. 857] 


6  8 


25 


Date. 


1873  Fourth  Report.  Part  II.  Index 


1876  Fifth  Report,  with  Appendix.  Part  I.  - 
Contents : — 

England.  House  of  Lords ;  Oxford 
and  Cambridge  Colleges;  Dean  and 
Chapter  of  Canterbury ;  Rye,  Lydd, 
and  other  Corporations,  Duke  of 
Sutherland,  Marquis  of  Lansdowne, 
Reginald  Cholmondeley,  Esq.,  &c. 

Scotland.  Earl  of  Aberdeen,  &c. 

„  Ditto.  Part  II.  Index  - 


1877 


Sixth  Retort,  with  Appendix.  Part  I. 

Contents : — 

England.  House  of  Lords ;  Oxford 
and  Cambridge  Colleges ;  Lambeth 
Palace ;  Black  Book  of  the  Arch¬ 
deacon  of  Canterbury;  Bridport, 
Wallingford,  and  other  Corporations; 
Lord  Leconfield,  Sir  Reginald  Graham, 
Sir  Henry  Ingilby,  &c. 

Scotland.  Duke  of  Argyll,  Earl  of 
Moray,  &c. 

Ireland.  Marquis  of  Ormonde. 


(Re¬ 

printed 

1893.) 

1879 

(Re¬ 

printed 

1895.) 


Ditto.  Part  II.  Index  - 


Seventh  Report,  with  Appendix. 
Part  I. 

Contents:  — 

House  of  Lords  ;  County  of  Somerset ; 
Earl  of  Egmont,  Sir  Frederick 
Graham,  Sir  Harry  Verney,  &c. 


Size. 

Sessional 

Paper. 

Price. 

I 

s.  d. 

f’cap 

[C.857i.] 

2  6 

[C.1432] 

7  0 

” 

[C. 1432 

i-] 

3  6 

[C.1745] 

8  6 

>} 

[C.2102] 

1  10 

yy 

[C.2340] 

7  6 

Ditto.  Part  II.  Appendix  and  Index  - 
Contents: — 

Duke  of  Athole,  Marquis  of  Ormonde, 
S.  F.  Livingstone,  Esq.,  &c. 

Eighth  Report,  with  Appendix  and 
Index.  Part  I.  - 

Contents: — 

List  of  collectionsexamined, 1869-1880. 
England.  House  of  Lords  ; 

Duke  of  Marlborough ;  Magdalen 
College,  Oxford  ;  Royal  College 
of  Physicians;  Queen  Anne’s  [ 
Bounty  Office ;  Corporations  of 
Chester,  Leicester,  &c. 

Ireland.  Marquis  of  Ormonde,  Lord 
Emly,  The  O’Conor  Don,  Trinity 
College,  Dublin,  &e. 

1331  Ditto.  Part  II.  Appendix  and  Index  - 
Contents:  — 

Duke  of  Manchester 

1581  Ditto.  Part  III.  Appendix  and  Index 
Contents:  — 

Karl  of  Ashburnhan;. 


(Re¬ 

printed 

1895.) 


1881 


» 


>> 


[C.2340  3  6 

i-] 


[C.3040]  8  6 


„  [C.  3040  1  9 

i] 

„  [C.3040  [ Out  oj 

ii.]  print. 


26 


Date. 


Size. 


1883 

(Re¬ 

printed 

1895.) 


1884 

(Re¬ 

printed 

1895.) 


Ninth  Report,  with  Appendix  and 
Index.'  Part  I.  - 
Contents:  — 

St.  Paul’s  and  Canterbury  Cathedrals  ; 
Eton  College;  Carlisle,  Yarmouth, 
Canterbury,  and  Barnstaple  Corpora¬ 
tions,  &c. 

Ditto.  Part  II.  Appendix  and  Index 
Contents  : — 

England.  House  of  Lords,  Earl  of 
Leicester;  C.  Pole  Gell,  Alfred  Mor¬ 
rison,  Esqs.,  &c. 


f’cap 


yy 


1884 


1883 

(Re¬ 

printed 

1895.) 

1888 

1889 

1892 

1894 

1896 

1885 

1885 

(Re¬ 

printed 

1895.) 

1885 

1885 

1885 


1885 

(Re¬ 

printed 

1895.) 

1887 


Scotland.  Lord  Elphinstone,  II.  C. 

Maxwell  Stuart,  Esq.,  &c. 

Ireland.  Duke  of  Leinster,  Marquis 
of  Drogheda,  &c. 

Ditto.  Part  III.  Appendix  and 
Index  - 
Contents:  — 

Mrs.  Stopford  Sackville. 

Calendar  of  the  Manuscripts  of  tiie 
Marquis  of  Salisbury,  K.G.  (or  Cecil 


MSS.).  Part  I.  - 

- 

- 

- 

Ditto.  Part  II. 

- 

- 

- 

Ditto.  Part  III. 

- 

- 

- 

Ditto.  Part  IY. 

- 

- 

- 

Ditto.  Part  Y. 

- 

- 

- 

Ditto.  Part  VI. 

_ 

_ 

_ 

Tenth  Report 

- 

- 

- 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following: 

(1.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

Earl  of  Egliuton,  Sir  J.  S.  Max¬ 
well,  Bart.,  and  C.  S.  H.  D.  Moray, 
C.  F.  Weston  Underwood,  G.  W. 
Digby,  Esqs. 

(2.)  Appendix  and  Index 
The  Family  of  Gawdy. 

(3.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 
Wells  Cathedral. 

(4.)  Appendix  and  Index 

Earl  of  Westmorland ;  Capt,  Stewart; 
Lord  Stafford ;  Sir  N.  W.  Throck¬ 
morton  ;  Sir  P.  T.  Mainwaring, 
Lord  Muncaster,  M.P.,  Capt.  J.  F.  | 
Bagot,  Earl  of  Kilmorey,  Earl  of 
Powis,  anchothers,  the  Corporations 
of  Kendal,  Weulock,  Bridgnorth, 
Eye,  Plymouth,  and  the  County  of 
Essex  ;  and  Stony  hurst  College. 

(5.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

The  Marquis  of  Ormonde,  Earl  of 
Fingall,  Corporations  of  Galway, 
Waterford,  the  Sees  of  Dublin  arid 
Ossory,  the  Jesuits  in  Irelaud. 

(6.)  Appendix  and  Index 

Marquis  of  Abergavenny,  Lord  Braye, 
G.  F.  Luttrell,  P.  P.  Bouverie, 
W.  Bromley  Davenport,  R.  T. 
Balfour,  Esquires. 


yy 


8vo. 


yy 

yy 


yy 

yy 

yy 

yy 


yy 


yy 


yy 


yy 


yy 


yy 


[C.3773] 


[C.  3773 

i-] 


[C.3773 

ii.] 


[C.3777] 

[C.5463] 
[C. 5889 
v-] 

[C.G823] 

[C.7574] 

[C.7884] 

[C.4548] 

[C.4575] 


[C. 4576 
|  iii.] 
[C.  4576 

I  »•] 

i[C.4576] 


[4576  i.] 


[C.5242] 


s.  d. 

'  5  2 


6  3 


1  7 


3  5 

3  5 
2  1 

2  11 

2  6 

2  8 
0  3^ 

3  7 


1  4 

2  0 
3  C 


2  10 


1  7 


27 


1 

Date.  ; 

— 

Size. 

Sessional 

Paper. 

Price. 

s. 

d. 

1887 

Eleventh  Report  - 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following: — 

8vo. 

;C.5060 

vi.] 

0 

3 

1S87 

(1.)  Appendix  and  Index 

H.  D.  Skrine,  Esq.,  Salvetti  Corre¬ 
spondence. 

99 

;C.5060] 

1 

1 

1887 

(2.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

House  of  Lords.  1678-1688. 

99 

'C.  5060 

i.] 

2 

0 

1887 

(3.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

Corporations  of  Southampton  and 
Lynn. 

» 

rc.  5060 

ii.] 

1 

8 

1887 

(4.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 
Marquess  Townshend. 

99 

[C. 5060 
iii.] 

2 

6 

1887 

(5.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 
Earl  of  Dartmouth. 

9* 

[C. 5060 
iv.] 

2 

8 

1887 

(6.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 
Duke  of  Hamilton. 

>9 

[C. 5060 
v-] 

1 

6 

1888 

(7.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

Duke  of  Leeds,  Marchioness  of 
Waterford,  Lord  Hothfield,  &c. ; 
Bridgwater  Trust  Office,  Reading 
Corporation,  Inner  Temple  Library. 

99 

[C.5612] 

2 

0 

1890 

Twelfth  Report  - 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following:  — 

99 

[C.5889] 

0 

3 

1888 

(1.)  Appendix  - 

Earl  Cowper,  K.G.  (Coke  MSS.,  at 
Melbourne  Hall,  Derby).  Vol.  I. 

99 

[C.5472] 

2 

7 

1888 

(2.)  Appendix  - 

Ditto.  Yol.  II. 

99 

[C.5613] 

2 

5 

1889 

(3.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 
Ditto.  Vol.  III. 

99 

[C.  5889 

I] 

i 

4 

1888 

(4.  Appendix  - 

The  Duke  of  Rutland,  G.C.B.  Yol.  I. 

99 

[C.5614] 

3 

2 

1891 

(5.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 
Ditto.  Vol.  II. 

99 

[C.5889 

ii.] 

2 

0 

1889 

(6.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

House  of  Lords,  1689-1690. 

99 

[C.  5889 
iii.] 

2 

1 

1890 

(7.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

S.  II.  le  Fleming,  Esq.,  of  Rydal. 

»> 

[C.  5889 
iv-] 

1 

11 

1891 

(8.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

The  Duke  of  Athole,  K.T.,  and  the 
Earl  of  Home. 

99 

[C.6338] 

1 

0 

1891 

(9.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

The  Duke  of  Beaufort,  K.G.,  the  Earl 
of  Donoughmore,  J.  II.  Gurney,  W. 
W.  B.  II niton,  R.  W.  Ivetton,  G.  A. 
Aitken,  P.  V.  Smith,  Esqs. ;  Bishop 
of  Ely ;  Cathedrals  of  Ely,  Glouces¬ 
ter,  Lincoln,  and  Peterborough  ; 
Corporations  of  Gloucester  Higliam 
Ferrers,  and  Newark ;  Southwell 
Minster ;  Lincoln  District  Registry. 

99 

[C. 6338 

i-] 

2 

6 

1891 

(10.)  Appendix  - 

The  First  Earl  ofCharlemont.  Vol.  I. 
1745-1783. 

99 

s 

[C. 6338 

ii-] 

1 

11 

1892 

Thirteenth  Report  - 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following:  — 

99 

[C.6827] 

o 

3 

1891 

(1.)  Appendix  - 

The  Duke  of  Portland.  Vol.  I. 

(2.)  Appendix  and  Index. 

99 

[C.6474] 

3 

0 

Ditto.  Vol.  11. 

9% 

[C.  6827 

i]- 

1  2 

0 

28 


Date. 

Size. 

Sessional 

Paper. 

| 

Price. 

1892 

(3.)  Appendix. 

J.  B.  Fortescue,  Esq.,  of  Dropmore. 
Yol.  I. 

!  8  vo. 

[C.6660] 

s.  d. 

2  7 

1892 

(4.)  Appendix  and  Index 

>y 

rc.  68101 

2  4 

1892 

Corporations  of  Rye,  Hastings,  and 
Hereford.  Capt.  F.  C.  Loder- 
Symonds,  E.  R.  Wodehouse,  M.P., 
J.  Dovaston,  Esqs.,  Sir  T.  B.  Leo¬ 
nard,  Bart.,  Rev.  W.  D.  Macray,  and 
Earl  of  Dartmouth  (Supplementary 
Report). 

(5.)  Appendix  and  Index. 

House  cf  Lords,  1690-1691 

99 

r  C. 68221 

2  4 

1893 

(6.)  Appendix  and  Index. 

Sir  W.  Fitzherbert,  Bart.  The  Delaval 

>> 

rc.7166] 

1  4 

1893 

Family,  of  Seaton  Delaval ;  The  Earl 
of  Ancaster  ;  and  General  Lyttelton- 
Annesley. 

(7.)  Appendix  and  Index. 

The  Earl  of  Lonsdale 

fC.7241.1 

1  3 

1893 

(8.)  Appendix  and  Index. 

The  First  Earl  of  Charlemont.  Yol.  II. 

99 

[C.7424.] 

1  11 

189G 

1784-1799. 

Fourteenth  Report  ... 

» 

T  C. 79831 

0  3 

1894 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following  : — 

(1.)  Appendix  and  Index. 

The  Duke  of  Rutland,  G.C.B.  Vol.  III. 

99 

TC. 7476.1 

1  11 

1894 

(2.)  Appendix. 

The  Duke  of  Portland.  Vol  III. 

99 

TC. 75691 

2  8 

1894 

(3.)  Appendix  and  Index. 

The  Duke  of  Roxburglie  ;  Sir  H.  H. 
Campbell,  Bart. ;  The  Earl  of 
Strathmore  ;  and  the  Countess 
Dowager  of  Seafield. 

(4.)  Appendix  and  Index. 

Lord  Kenyon  - 

>> 

[C.7570] 

1  2 

1894 

99 

[C.7571] 

2  10 

1896 

(5.)  Appendix. 

J.  B.  Fortescue,  Esq.,  of  Dropmore. 

99 

rC. 75721 

2  8 

1895 

Vol.  II. 

(6.)  Appendix  and  Index. 

House  of  Lords,  1692-1693  - 

99 

rC.7573.1 

1  11 

1895 

(7.)  Appendix. 

The  Marquess  of  Ormonde 

»  ! 

T  C.7  6781 

1  10 

1895 

(8.)  Appendix  and  Index. 

Lincoln,  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Hertford, 

r  c.78811 

1  5 

1896 

and  Great  Grimsby  Corporations  ; 
The  Dean  and  Chapter  of  Wor¬ 
cester,  and  of  Lichfield ;  The 
Bishop’s  Registry  of  Worcester. 

(9.)  Appendix  and  Index. 

Earl  of  Buckinghamshire ;  Earl  of 

99 

rc.7882.1 

2  6 

1895 

Lindsey ;  Earl  of  Onslow ;  Lord 
Emly  ;  T.  J.  Hare,  Esq.;  and  J. 
Round,  Esq.,  M.P. 

(10.)  Appendix  and  Index. 

The  Earl  of  Dartmouth.  Vol.  11. 

99 

rC. 78331 

2  9 

1896 

American  Papers. 

Fifteenth  Report. 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following ; — 

(l.)  Appendix  and  Index. 

The  Earl  of  Dartmouth.  Vol.  III. 

t ) 

[0.8156] 

1  5 

A.NKUAL  REPORTS  OF  THE  DEPUTY  KEEPER 
OF  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS. 


REPORTS  Nos.  1-22,  IN  FOLIO,  PUBLISHED  BETWEEN  1840  AND  1861,  ARB  NO 
LONGER  ON  SALE.  SUBSEQUENT  REPORTS  ARE  IN  OCTAVO. 


Date. 

Number 

of 

Report. 

Chief  Contents. 

« 

Sessional 

No. 

Price, 

1862 

23 

Proceedings  .... 

C.  2970 

s.  d. 

0  4 

1863 

24 

Proceedings  .... 

C.  3142 

0  7* 

1864 

25 

Calendar  of  Crown  Leases,  33-38  Hen. 
VIII. — Calendar  of  Bills  and  Answers, 
& c. ,  Hen.  VIII.-Ph.  &  Mary,  for  Cheshire 
and  Flintshire. — lust  of  Lords  High 
Treasurers  and  Chief  Commissioners  of 
the  Treasury,  from  Hen.  VII. 

C.  3318 

[Oat  of 
print.'] 

1865 

26 

List  of  Plans  annexed  to  Inclosure  Awards, 
31  Geo.  II.— 7  Will.  IV.— Calendar  of 
Privy  Seals,  & c.,  for  Cheshire  and 
Flintshire,  Hen.  VI.-Eliz. — Calendar  of 
Writs  of  General  Livery,  &c.,  for 
Cheshire,  Eliz.-Charles  I.  —  Calendar 
of  Deeds,  &c.,  on  the  Chester  Plea 
Rolls,  Hen.  III.  and  Edw.  I. 

C.  3492 

[0;/<  of 
print.  ] 

1866 

27 

List  of  Awards  of  Inclosure  Commis¬ 
sioners. — References  to  Charters  in  the 
Cartae  Antiqum  and  the  Confirmation 
Rolls  of  Chancery,  Ethelbert  of  Kent- 
James  I. — Calendar  of  Deeds,  &c.,  on 
the  Chester  Plea  Rolls,  Edw.  II. 

C.  3717 

[  Out  of 
print.] 

1867 

28 

Calendar  of  Fines,  Cheshire  and  Flint¬ 
shire,  Edw.  I. — Calendar  of  Deeds.  &c., 
on  the  Chester  Plea  Rolls,  Edw.  III. 

Table  of  Law  Terms,  from  the  Nor¬ 
man  Conquest  to  1  Will  IV. 

C.  3839 

[ Out  of 
print.] 

1868 

29 

Calendar  of  Royal  Charters. — Calendar 
of  Deeds,  &c.,  on  the  Chester  Plea 
Rolls  Richard  II. -Henry  VII.—  Durham 
Records,  Letter  and  Report. 

C.  4012 

[i Out  of 
print.] 

1369 

30 

Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Inventory. 
— Durham  Records,  Inventory. — Calen¬ 
dar  of  Deeds,  &c.  on  the  Chester  Plea 
Rolls,  Hen.  VIII. — Calendar  of  Decrees 
of  Court  of  General  Surveyors,  34—28 
Hen.  VIII. — Calendar  of  Royal  Charters. 
— State  Paper  Office,  Calendar  of  Docu¬ 
ments  relating  to  the  History  of,  to 
1800. — Tower  of  London.  Index  to 
Documents  in  custody  of  the  Constable 
of. — Calendar  of  Dockets,  & c:,  for 
Privy  Seals,  1634-1711. — Report  of  the 
Commissioners  on  Carte  Papers. — 
j  Venetian  Ciphers. 

C.  4165 

[ Out  of 
print.] 

30 


Date. 

Number 

of 

Report. 

Chief  Contents. 

Sessional 

No. 

Price. 

1870 

31 

Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Calendar  of 
Royal  Charters. — Durham  Records, 
Calendar  of  Chancery  Enrolments ; 
Cursitors’  Records. — List  of  Officers  of 
Palatinate  of  Chester,  in  Cheshire  and 
Flintshire,  and  North  Wales. — List 
of  Sheriffs  of  England,  31  Hen.  I.  to 

4  Edw.  III. 

[C.  187] 

s.  d. 
[Out  of 
print.] 

1871 

32 

Part  I. — Report  of  the  Commissioners  on 
Carte  Papers. — Calendarium  Genea- 
logicum,  1  &  2  Edw.  II. —  Durham 
Records,  Calendar  of  Cursitor’s  Records, 
Chancery  Enrolments.— Duchy  of  Lan¬ 
caster  Records,  Calendar  of  Rolls  of  the 
Chancery  of  the  County  Palatine. 

[C.  374] 

[Out  of 
print.'] 

1871 

— 

Part  II. — Charities ;  Calendar  of  Trust 
Deeds  enrolled  on  the  Close  Rolls  of 
Chancery,  subsequent  to  9  Geo.  II. 

[C.  374 
I-] 

[ Out  of 
print  ] 

1872 

33 

Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Calendar  of 
Rolls  of  the  Chancery  of  the  County 
Palatine. —  Durham  Records,  Calendar 
of  the  Cursitor’s  Records,  Chancery 
Enrolments. — Report  on  the  Shaftes¬ 
bury  Papers. — Venetian  Transcripts. — 
Greek  copies  of  the  Athanasian  Creed. 

[C.  620] 

1  10 

1873 

34 

Durham  Records,  Calendar  of  the 
Cursitors’  Records,  Chancery  Enrol¬ 
ments. — Supplementary  Report  on  the 
Shaftesbury  Papers. 

[C.  728] 

1  9 

1874 

35 

Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Calendar  of 
Ancient  Charters  or  Grants. — Palatinate 
of  Lancaster ;  Inventory  and  Lists  of 
Documents  transferred  to  the  Public 
Record  Office. —  Durham  Records, 
Calendar  of  Cursitors’  Records,  Chan¬ 
cery  Enrolments. —  Second  Supplemen¬ 
tary  Report  on  the  Shaftesbury  Papers. 

[C.  1043] 

[ Out  of 
print.] 

1875 

36 

Durham  Records,  Calendar  of  the  Cursi¬ 
tor’s  Records,  Chancery  Enrolments. — 
Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records  ;  Calendar 
of  Ancient  Charters  or  Grants. — Report 
upon  Documents  in  French  Archives 
relating  to  British  History. — Calendar 
of  Recognizance  Rolls  of  the  Palatinate 
of  Chester,  to  end  of  reign  of  Hen.  IV. 

[C.  1301] 

[Out  of 
print.] 

1876 

37 

Part  I. — Durham  Records,  Calendar  of 
the  Cursitor’s  Records,  Chancery  Enrol¬ 
ments. — Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records, 
Calendar  of  Ancient  Rolls  of  the  Chan¬ 
cery  of  the  County  Palatine. — List  of 
French  Ambassadors,  See.,  in  England, 
1509-1714. 

[C.  1544] 

[  Out  of 
print] 

31 


Date. 

Number 

of 

Report. 

Chief  Contents. 

Sessional 

No. 

Price. 

j 

s.  d. 

1876 

Part  II. — Calendar  of  Recognizance  Rolls 
of  the  Palatinate  of  Chester;  Hen.  V.- 
Hen.  VII. 

[C. 1544 
I-] 

[  Out  of 
print. ] 

1877 

38 

Exchequer  Records,  Catalogue  of  Special 
Commissions,  1  Eliz.  to  10  Viet.,  Calen¬ 
dar  of  Depositions  taken  by  Commission, 

1  Eliz.  to  end  of  James  I. — List  of  Rep¬ 
resentative  Peers  for  Scotland  and 
Ireland. 

[C.  1747]’ 

[  Out  of 
print.'] 

1878 

j 

39 

Calendar  of  Recogniza.nce  Rolls  of  the 
Palatinate  of  Chester,  1  Hen.  VIII.- 
11  Geo.  IV.  —  Exchequer  Records, 
Calendar  of  Depositions  taken  by  Com¬ 
mission,  Charles  I. — Duchy  of  Lancaster 
Records;  Calendar  of  Lancashire  Inqui¬ 
sitions  post  Mortem,  &  c. — Third  Supple¬ 
mentary  Report  on  the  Shaftesbury 
Papers. — List  of  Despatches  of  French 
Ambassadors  to  England,  1509-1714. 

[C.  2123] 

[ Out  oj 
print.] 

1879 

40 

Calendar  of  Depositions  taken  by  Com¬ 
mission,  Commonwealth-James  II. — 
Miscellaneous  Records  of  Queen’s 
Remembrancer  in  the  Exchequer. — 
Durham,  Records,  Calendar  of  the 
Cursitor’s  Records,  Cnancery  Enrol¬ 
ments. — Calendar  of  Duchy  cf  Lancas¬ 
ter  Patent  Rolls,  5  Ric.  II.— 2 1  Hen.  VII. 

[C.  2377] 

[Ow<  of 
print.] 

1880 

41 

Calendar  of  Depositions  taken  by  Com¬ 
mission,  William  and  Mary  to  George  I. 
— Calendar  of  Norman  Rolls,  Hen.  V., 
Part  I. — List  of  Calendars,  Indexes, 
&c.  in  the  Public  Record  Office  on  31st 
December  1879. 

[C.  2658] 

4  8 

1881 

42 

‘Calendar  of  Depositions  taken  by  Com¬ 
mission,  George  II.  Calendar  of  Nor¬ 
man  Rolls,  Hen.  V.,  Part  II.  and  Glos¬ 
sary. — Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  1  Ed  w. I. 
Transcripts  from  Paris. 

[C.  2972] 

4  0 

1882 

43 

i 

i 

Calendar  of  Privy  Seals, &c.,  1-7  Charles  I. 
— Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  -Inven¬ 
tory  of  Court  Robs,  Hen.  III.-Geo.  IV., 
Calendar  of  Privy  Seals,  Ric.  II. — 
Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  2  Edw.  I. — 
Fourth  Supplementary  Report  on  the 
Shaftesbury  Papers.  Transcripts  from 
Paris. — Report  on  Libraries  in  Sweden. 
— Report  on  Papers  relating  to  English 
History  in  the  State  Archives,  Stock¬ 
holm. — Report  on  Canadian  Archives. 

[C.  3425] 

3  10 

1883 

44 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  3  Edw.  I. — 
Dui bam  Records,  Cursitors’  Records, 
Inquisitions  post  Mortem,  &c. — Calen¬ 
dar  of  French  Rolls,  1-10  Hen.  V. 
— Report  from  Venice. — Transcripts 
from  Paris.- -Report  from  Rome. 

[C.  3771] 

1 

3  0 

i 

32 


Date. 

Number 

of 

Report. 

Chief  Contents. 

Sessional 

No. 

Price. 

1884 

45 

' 

Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Inventory  of 
Ministers’  and  Receivers’  Accounts, 
Edw.  I.-Geo.  III. — Durham  Records, 
Cursitors’  Records,  Inquisitions  post 
Mortem,  &c. — Calendar  of  Diplomatic 
Documents. — Transcripts  from  Paris. — 
Reports  from  Rome  and  Stockholm. — 
Report  on  Archives  of  Denmark,  &c. — 
Transcripts  from  Venice. — Calendar  of 
Patent  Rolls,  4  Edw.  I. 

[C.  4425] 

s.  d. 

4  3 

1885 

40 

Presentations  to  Offices  on  the  Patent 
Rolls,  Charles  II. —  Transcripts  from 
Paris.  Reports  from  Rome. — Second 
Report  on  Archives  of  Denmark,  &c. — 
Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  5  Edw.  I. — 
Catalogue  of  Venetian  Manuscripts 
bequeathed  by  Mr.  Rawdon  Brown 
to  the  Public  Record  Office. 

[C.  4746] 

2  10 

1880 

47 

Transcripts  from  Paris. — Third  Report 
on  Archives  of  Denmark,  &c. —  List 
of  Creations  of  Peers  and  Baronets, 
1483-1646. — Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls, 

6  Edw.  I. 

[C.  4888] 

2  2 

1887 

48 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  7  Edw.  I. — 
Calendar  of  French  Rolls,  Henry  VI. 
— Calendar  of  Privy  Seals,  &c.,  8-11 
Charles  I.  —  Calendar  of  Diplomatic 
Documents.  —  Schedules  of  Valueless 
Documents. 

[C.  5234] 

3  0 

1888 

49 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  8  Edw.  I. — 
Index  to  Leases  and  Pensions  (Aug¬ 
mentation  Office). — Calendar  of  Star 
Chamber  Proceedings. 

[C.  5596] 

3  3 

1889 

50 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  9  Edw.  I. 

[C.  5847] 

1  2 

1890 

51 

Proceedings  - 

[C.  6108] 

0  2 

1891 

52 

Proceedings  - 

[C.  6528] 

o  4 

1892 

53 

Proceedings  - 

[C.  6804] 

0  2  j 

1893 

54 

Proceedings  - 

[C.  7079] 

0  1| 

1894 

55 

Proceedings  - 

[C.  7444] 

o  n 

1895 

56 

Proceedings  - 

[C.  7841] 

0  H 

1890 

57 

Proceedings.  Account  of  the  Rolls  Chapel 

— 

— 

Indexes  to  Printed  Reports,  vir.:  — 

Reports  1-22  (1840-1861) 

„  23-39  (1862-1878)  - 

1 

4  0 

2  0 

33 


SCOTLAND. 

CATALOGUE  OF  SCOTTISH  RECORD  PUBLICATIONS 

PUBLISHED  UNDER  THE  DIRECTION  OF 

THE  LORD  CLERK  REGISTER  OF  SCOTLAND. 

[Other  Works  relating  to  Scotland  will  be  found  among  the  Publi¬ 
cations  of  the  Record  Commissioners,  see  pp.  20-21.] 

m. 

1.  Chronicles  of  the  Picts  and  Scots,  and  other  early  Memorials  of 

Scottish  History.  Royal  8vo.,  half  bound  (1867).  Edited  by  William 
P.  Skene,  LL.D.  (Out  of  print.) 

2.  Ledger  of  Andrew  Halyburton,  Conservator  of  the  Privileges  of 

the  Scotch  Nation  in  the  Netherlands  (1492-1503) ;  together  with 
the  Books  of  Customs  and  Valuation  of  Merchandises  in  Scotland. 
Edited  by  Cosmo  Innes.  Royal  8vo.,  half  bound  (1867).  Price  10s. 

3.  Documents  illustrative  of  the  History  of  Scotland  from  the  Death 

of  King  Alexander  the  Third  to  the  Accession  of  Robert  Bruce, 
from  original  and  authentic  copies  in  London,  Paris,  Brussels,  Lille, 
and  Ghent.  In  2  Vols.  royal  8vo.,  half  bound  (1870).  Edited  by  the 
Rev.  Joseph  Stevenson.  ( Out  of  print.) 

4.  Accounts  of  the  Lord  High  Treasurer  of  Scotland.  Vol.  I.,  A.D. 

1473-1498.  Edited  by  Thomas  Dickson.  1877.  Price  10s. 

5*  Register  of  the  Privy  Council  of  Scotland.  Edited  and  arranged  by 
J.  H.  Burton,  LL.D.  Vol.  I.,  1545-1569.  Vol.  II.,  1569-1578. 
Vol.  III.,  A.D.  1578-1585.  Vol.  IV.,  A.D.  1585-1592.  Vol.  V.,  1592- 
1599.  Vol.  VI.,  1599-1604.  Vol.  VII.,  1604-1607.  Vol.  VIII.,  1607- 
1610.  Vol.  IX.,  1610-1613,  Vol.  X.,  1613-1616.  Vol.  XI.,  1616-1619. 
Vol.  XII.,  1619-1622.  Vol.  XIII.  (In  thspress.)  Edited  by  David 
Masson,  LL.D.,  1877-1895.  Price  15s.  each. 

6.  Rotuli  Scaccarii  Regum  Scotorum.  The  Exchequer  Rolls  of 

Scotland.  Vol.  I.,  A.D.  1264-1359.  Vol.  II.,  A.D.  1359-1379. 
Edited  by  John  Stuart,  LL.D.,  and  George  Burnett,  Lyon  King  of 
Arms.  1878-1880.  Vol.  III.,  A.D.  1379-1406.  Vol.  IV.,  A.D.  1406- 
1436.  Vol.  V.,  A.D.  1437-1454.  Vol.  VI.,  1455-1460.  Vol.  VII., 
1460-1469.  Vol.  VIII.,  A.D.  1470-1479.  Vol.  IX.,  1480-1487, 
Addenda,  1437-1487.  Vol.  X.,  1488-1496.  Vol.  XI.,  1497-1591. 
Vol.  XII.,  1502-1507.  Vol.  XIII.,  1508-1513.  Vol.  XIV.,  1513- 
1522.  Vol.  XV.,  1523-1529.  Vol.  XVI.  (in  the  press).  Edited  by 
George  Burnett,  1878-1895.  Price  10s.  each. 

7.  Calendar  of  Documents  relating  to  Scotland,  preserved  in  the 

Public  Record  Office.  Edited  by  Joseph  Bain.  Vol.  I.  (1881). 
Vol.  II.,  1272-1307  (1884).  Vol.  III.,  1307-1357  (1887).  Vol.  IV., 
1357-1509  (1888).  Price  15s.  each. 

8  Register  of  the  Great  Seal  of  Scotland.  Vol.  1.,  A.D.,  1300-1424 
(see  v.  21).  Vol.  II.,  A.D.  1424-1513.  Vol.  III.,  A.D.  1513-1546.  Vol. 
IV  A.D.  1546-1580.  Vol.  V.,  A.D.  1580-1593.  Vol.  VI.,  A.D.  1593- 
1609.  Vol.  VII.,  A.D.  1609-1620.  Vol.  VIII.,  A.D.  1620-1623.  Vol. 
IX.  (In  the  press.)  Edited  by  James  Balfour  Paul  and  J.  M. 
Thomson,  1882-1894.  Price  15s.  each. 

9.  The  Hamilton  Papers.  Letters  and  Papers  illustrating  the  Political 
Relations  of  England  and  Scotland  in  the  XVIth  century.  Formerly 
in  the  possession  of  the  Duke  of  Hamilton,  now  in  the  British 
Museum.  Edited  by  Joseph  Bain,  F.S.A.  Scot.  Vol.  1,  A.D. 1532- 
1543(1890).  Vol.  2,  A.D.  1543-1590.  Price  15s.  each. 

10  Borders  of  England  and  Scotland.  Calendar  of.  Letters  and 
Papers  relating  to  the  Affairs  of  the.  Preserved  in  Her  Majesty’s  Public 
Record  Office," London.  Editedby  Joseph  Bain.  Vol.  I.,  A.D.  1560- 
1594.  Vol.  II.,  A.D.  1595-1603.  Price  15s.  each. 

Fac-similes  of  the  National  MSS.  of  Scotland.  Parts  I.,  II. ,  and  IIL 
( Oat  of  print.) 


V  95617. 


c 


34 


IRELAND. 


CATALOGUE  OF  IRISH  RECORD  PUBLICATIONS. 


1.  Calendar  of  the  Patent  and  Close  Rolls  of  Chancery  in  Ireland, 

Henry  "VIII.,  Edward  VI.,  Mary,  and  Elizabeth,  and  for  the  1st  to 
the  7th  year  of  Charles  I.  Edited  by  James  Morrin.  Royal  8vo. 
(1861-3).  Vols.  I.  II ,  and  III.  Price  11s.  each . 

2.  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Ireland. 

Sen  elms  Mor.  (1865-1880.)  Vols.  I.,  II.,  III.,  and  IV.  Price  10s. 
each.  Vol.  V.  and  VI.  in  progress. 

3.  Abstracts  of  the  Irish  Patent  Rolls  of  James  I.  Unbound.  Price  25s. 

>>  >>  With  Supplement. 

Half  morocco.  Price  35s. 

4.  Annals  of  Ulster.  Otherwise  Annals  of  Senate,  a  Chronicle  of  Irish 

Affairs  from  A.D.  431-1131,  1155-1541.  With  a  translation  and  Notes. 
Vol.  I.,  A.D.  431-1056.  Vol.  II.,  A.D.  1057-1131 ;  1155-1378.  Vol, 
III.,  A.D.  1379-1541.  Half  morocco.  Price  10s.  each. 

5.  Charts,  Privilegia  et  Immunitates,  being  transcripts  of  Charters 

and  Privileges  to  Cities  Towns  Abbeys  and  other  Bodies  Corporate. 
18  Henry  II.  to  18  Richard  II.  (1171  to  1395).  Printed  by  the  Irish 
Record  Commission,  1829-1830.  Polio,  92  pp.  Boards  (1889).  Price  5s. 


Eac-similes  of  National  Manuscripts  of  Ireland,  from  the  earliest 
extant  specimens  to  A.D.  1719.  Edited  by  John  T.  Gilbert,  E.S.A. 
M.R.I.A.  Parti,  is  out  of  print.  Parts  II.  and  III.  Price  42s.  each. 
Part  IV.  1.  Price  5 1.  5s.  Part  IV.  2.  Price  4 1.  10s. 

This  work  forms  a  comprehensive  Palaeographic  Series  for  Ireland.  It 
furnishes  characteristic  specimens  of  the  documents  which  have  come 
'down  from  each  of  the  classes  which,  in  past  ages,  formed  principal 
elements  in  the  population  of  Ireland,  or  exercised  an  influence  in  her 
affairs.  With  these  reproductions  are  combined  fac-similes  of  writings 
connected  with  eminent  personages  or  transactions  of  importance  in  the 
annals  of  the  country  to  the  early  part  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

The  specimens  have  been  reproduced  as  nearly  as  possible  in  accord¬ 
ance  with  the  originals,  in  dimensions,  colouring,  and  general  appearance. 
Characteristic  examples  of  styles  of  writing  and  caligraphic  ornamenta¬ 
tion  are,  so  far  as  practicable,  associated  with  subjects  of  historic  and 
linguistic  interest.  Descriptions  of  the  various  manuscripts  are  given 
by  the  Editor  in  the  Introduction.  The  contents  of  the  specimens  are 
fully  elucidated  and  printed  in  the  original  languages,  opposite  to 
the  Fac-similes— line  for  line — without  contractions— thus  facilitating 
reference  and  aiding  effectively  those  interested  in  paleographic  studies. 

In  the  work  are  also  printed  in  full,  for  the  first  time,  many  original" 
and  important  historical  documents. 

Fart  I.  commences  with  the  earliest  Irish  MSS.  extant. 

Part  II. :  From  the  Tivelfth  Century  to  A.D.  1299. 

Part  III. :  From  A.D  1300  to  end  of  reign  of  Henry  VIII. 

Part  IV.  1.  :  From  reign  of  Edward  VI.  to  that  of  James  I. 

In  Part  IV.  2.— the  work  is  carried  down  to  the  early  part  of  the 
eighteenth  century,  with  Index  to  the  entire  publication. 

Account  of  Fac-Similes  of  National  Manuscripts  of  Ireland.  In  one 
Volume;  8vo.,  with  Index.  Price  10«.  Parts  I.  and  II.  too-ether. 
Price  2s.  Qd.  Part  II.  Price  Is.  Qd.  Part  III.  Price  Is.  Part°IV  1 
Price  2s.  Part  IV.  2.  Price  2 e.  6d. 


Date. 

1869 

1870 

1871 

1872 

1873 

1874 

1875 

1876 

1877 

1878 

1879 

1880 

1881 

1882 


35 


REPORTS  OF  THE  DEPUTY  KEEPER 
IE  PUBLIC  RECORDS,  IRELAND. 


Chief  Contents  of  Appendices. 


Contents  of  the  principal  Record  Repositories 
of  Ireland  in  1864. — Notices  of  Records 
transferred  from  Chancery  Offices. — Irish 
State  Papers  presented  by  Philadelphia 
Library  Company. 

Notices  of  Records  transferred  from  Chancery, 
Queen’s  Bench,  and  Exchequer  Offices. — 
Index  to  Original  Deeds  received  from 
Master  Litton’s  Office. 

Notices  of  Records  transferred  from  Queen’s 
Bench,  Common  Pleas,  and  Exchequer 
Offices. — Report  on  J.  F.  Furguson’s  MSS. 
— Exchequer  Indices,  &c. 

Records  of  Probate  Registries 

Notices  of  Records  from  Queen’s  Bench 
Calendar  of  Fines  and  Recoveries  of  the 
Palatinate  ofTipperary,  1664-1715. — Index 
to  Reports  to  date. 

Notices  of  Records  transferred  from  Chancery, 
Queen’s  Bench,  and  Common  Pleas  Offices. 
— Report  respecting  “  Facsimiles  of 
National  MSS.  of  Ireland.” — List  of 

Chancery  Pleadings  (1662-1690)  and 
Calendar  to  Chancery  Rolls  (1662-1713) 
of  Palatinate  of  Tipperary. 

Notices  of  Records  from  Exchequer  and 
Admiralty  Offices. — Calendar  and  Index  to 
Fiants  of  Henry  VIII. 

Calendar  and  Index  to  Fiants  of  Edward  VI. 

Index  to  the  Liber  Munerum  Publicorum 
Hiberniae.-  Calendar  and  Index  to  Fiants 
of  Philip  and  Mary. 

Index  to  Deputy  Keeper’s  6th,  7th,  8th,  9th, 
and  10th  Reports. 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth  (1558-1570) 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  continued 
(1570-1576), 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  continued 
(1576-1583). 

Report  of  Keeper  of  State  Papers  containing 
Catalogue  of  Commonwealth  Books  trans¬ 
ferred  from  Bermingham  Tower. 


Sessional 

No. 

Price. 

[C.  4157] 

.<?.  d. 

2  3 

[C.  137] 

1  0 

[C.  329] 

2  0 

[C.  515] 

0  2| 

[C.  760] 

0  8 

[C.  963] 

[Out  of 
print .] 

[C.  1175] 

[ Out  of 
print.] 

[C.  1469] 

[C.  1702] 

[  Out  of 
print .] 
'Out  of 
print.'] 

[C.  2034] 

0  3| 

[C.  2311] 

[C.  2583] 

Out  of 
print.] 

1  3 

[C.  2929) 

l  5 

[C.  3215] 

0  6| 

3G 


Date. 

Number 

of 

Report. 

Chief  Contents  of  Appendices. 

Sessional 

No. 

Price. 

1883 

15 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  continued 

TC.  3676] 

s.  d. 

1  0 

1884 

16 

(1583-1586). — Index  to  Deputy  Keeper’s 
11th,  12th,  13th,  14th,  and  15th  Reports. 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  continued 

rc.  4062] 

1  6 

1885 

17 

(1586-1595). 

Report  on  Iron  Chest  of  attainders  following 
after  1641  and  1688. — Queen’s  Bench 
Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  continued 
(1596-1601). 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  continued 

[C.  4487] 

1  6 

1886 

18 

[C.  4755] 

1  1 

1887 

19 

(1601-1603). — Memorandum  on  State¬ 
ments  (1702)  and  Declarations  (1713-14) 
of  Huguenot  Pensioners. 

Notice  of  Records  of  Incumbered  and  Landed 

TC.  5185] 

0  6 

1888 

20 

Estates  Courts. — Report  of  Keeper  of  State 
Papers,  containing  Table  of  Abstracts  of 
Decrees  of  Innocence  (1663),  with  Index. 

Calendar  to  Christ  Church  Deeds  in  Novum 

• 

TC.  5535] 

0  S£ 

1889 

21 

Registrum,  1174-1684.  Index  to  Deputy 
Keeper’s  16th,  1 7th,  18th,  19th,  and  20th 
Reports. 

Index  to  Calendars  of  Fiants  of  the  reign  of 

TC.  5835] 

1  0 

1890 

22 

Queen  Elizabeth.  Letters  A—  C. 

Catalogue  of  Proclamations,  1618-1660 

[C.  6180] 

0  2i 

1891 

23 

Index  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth.  D — Z. 

Catalogue  of  Proclamations,  1661-1767. — 

[C.  6180 

i-] 

TC.  6504] 

2  0 

1  1 

1892 

24 

Calendar  to  Christ  Church  Deeds,  117 7— 
1462. — Schedule  of  Places  of  Custody  of 
Parish  Registers. 

Catalogue  of  Proclamations,  1767-1875.  Con- 

[C.  6765] 

0  9£ 

1893 

25 

tents  of  the  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer. 
Calendar  to  Christ  Church  Deeds,  1462- 
1602. 

Regulations  respecting  State  Papers.  In- 

[C.  7170] 

0  3 

1894 

26 

structions  for  Parochial  Custodians.  Index 
to  Twenty-first  to  Twenty-fifth  Reports. 

Abstract  of  Antrim  Inquisition,  3  James  L, 

[C.  74881 

0  3| 

1895 

27 

Bankruptcy  Records,  1857-1872  ;  Early 
Flea  Rolls  to  51  Edward  III. 

Index  to  the  Act  or  Grant  Books,  and  to 
Original  Wills,  of  the  Diocese  of  Dublin  to 
the  year  1800. 

Records  from  Courts  and  Oflices  transferred 

[C.  7488 ; 

i.l 

- 

[C.  7802] 

4  4 

0  2L 

1896 

to,  and  deposited  at  the  Public  Record 
Office  in  Ireland. 

Index  to  Calendars  of  Christ  Church  Deeds 

[C.  8080] 

0  5|. 

1896 

28 

1174-1684,  contained  in  Appendices  to 
20th,  23rd,  and  24th  Reports. 

(1.)  Report  on  the  Early  Plea  Rolls,  con- 

tinned  from  51  Edward  III. 

(2.)  Table  showing  present  Custodies  of 
Parochial  Records. 

[C.  8163] 

0  5tj 

90Z6Z69£000 


tiih  udVHO  iv  o  n  jo  AiisaaAiNn 


