I
s     i
:                    1
I  i
•:•   i
r;i
 - 1 - 
9a9.2
G9661h
1276413
GENEALOGY COULECTION
 - 2 - 
ALLEN COUNTY PUBUC,V,?,?ft'?iKi
3 1833 01282 7371
 - 3 - 
 - 4 - 
 - 5 - 
 - 6 - 
THEEE HUNDRED YEAES OE
A NOEMAN HOUSE.
 - 7 - 
 - 8 - 
THBEE HUNDEED YEABS OF
A NOBMAN HOUSE:
THE BARONS OF GOURNAY
FROM THE TENTH TO THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY.
WITH GENEALOGICAL MISCELLANIES.
By  JAMES HANNAY,
AUTUOK OP "singleton FONTENOY, R.N. ;  "  "A COUKSE OF ENGLISH
LITERATURE," ETC.
tvXiyyiirai PovXou,iirl}oc.  Tcvi n-«Tlg«? iifiaiif,  on
Aristoph. Ell.
Omncs boni semper nobilitati favemus.
—
Ciceko, Tro Sesl.
LONDON
:
TINSLEY BROTHERS, 18,  CATHERINE ST., STRAND.
1867.
 - 9 - 
LONDON
:
BRADBUKV, EVANS, AND CO., PKINTERS, WmTKFiilAllS.
 - 10 - 
127G413
DANIEL GUENEY, ESQ., RE.S.,
AUTHOR OF THE " RECOBD OF THE HOUSE OF GOUENAY,"
S:^is  WalumR is  ^tbitnUh
WITH MUCH EiSTEEM.
 - 11 - 
 - 12 - 
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.
PAGE
" EUDES," THE COMPANION OP EOLLO, AND PATRIARCH OF
THE HOUSE OF GOURNAY                          1
CHAPTER II.
THE GOURNAYS IN NORMANDY FROM THE TIME OF ROLLO
TO THE CONQUEST ;—WITH SOME ACCOUNT OP "OLD
HUGH "                                                   42
CHAPTER III.
OUR LAST GLIMPSE OP " OLD HUGH."   HIS SON HUGH III.,
AND HIS GRANDSON, GERARD, THE CRUSADER  .               .            87
CHAPTER IV.
GERARD'S SON, HUGH IV                                       118
CHAPTER V.
HUGH v., THE FRIEND OP C(EUR-DE-LION    .           .             .             .143
CHAPTER VI.
HUGH THE SIXTH, THE LAST BARON                     187
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES                                 201
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE                              2G2
 - 13 - 
 - 14 - 
THEEE HUNDEED YEAES OF
A NOEMAN HOUSE.
CHAPTER I.
"EUDES/' THE COMPANION OF ROLLO, AND PATRIARCH
OF THE HOUSE OF GOURNAY.
U ^^f
|T  is  just  a thousand years since  that great
i^K l^^l   ^^i^^i^ch  of the Gothic race which had occu-
i^gj^^^   pied from a period beyond history the Penin-
sula  of Scandinavia, began to  establish its
position, and prepare for its future in modern Europe.
Thirty generations of men have passed away, and the
whole face  of the world is  changed ;   but the special
streak of Norse blood may still  be traced—like a vein
in the arm—in the most powerful nations and institu-
tions existing.   The most vigorous aristocracies which
survive are based upon its  early achievements.   Many
princely houses sprung from Piurik, the Scandinavian
E
 - 15 - 
3            THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
conqueror of Eussia,  are yet found in the nobility of
that kingdom, and supply eminent worthies to  every
department of  the  State*   But  more  conspicuous
examples of its  permanence are to be seen among our-
selves.   Within the last few years, one descendant of a
Norman has been twice Prime Minister of the King-
dom;  t and another has opened to Northern enterprise
new countries in distant Eastern seas.J   The bearer of
a Danish name saved us India.§   Extend the survey
backward over  the  last  few generations—the  same
blood has proved itself worthy at once of its source and
its successes.   The names of Byron, Berkeley, Hastings,
Marlborough, and Washington,]! admit of little  rivalry
in  the fields  in which they became famoiis.   Yet we
need not linger exclusively among the great and the
celebrated, nor  too  curiously follow out the traditions
and philological speculations which connect Blake and
Drake, Nelson and Collingwood, with the days of the
Yikings and the coasts of the Baltic.   The nobles and
heroes of a people are its cream ;   but there is no good
cream without  good milk.   Over the north-east  of
*  " Notice sur les Principales  Families de la Russie," 1843.   [By
Prince Dolgorouky.]
+ Lord Derby—a scion of the Audleys.
J Lord Elj^in—a Bruce.
§ Havelock.
II     For "Washington's Norman origin  (that  of the others  named is
notorious) see Irving's  " Life."
 - 16 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.              o
Scotland,  and  broadcast over its  Lowlands ;—in tlie
great and enterprising North of England—along its
shores—in  its  great  cities—we everywhere meet the
tracfes  of its  Northern invaders *   The traveller to the
North sees in its  strong men and fair women the bro-
thers and sisters  of those of the island from which he
comes ;    while the traveller froifn it  discovers  amongst
ourselves forms and faces that make him fancy himself
at home.f  It is only, however, of late years that these
facts  have received proper appreciation,^ and that the
exclusiveness  of  the term " Anglo-Saxon "  has been
rebuked by those who would have justice done to  the
Northmen, whether from the Baltic or  from France.
"We are about to write the history of a Norman family,
and must endeavour—however imperfectly—to  esti-
mate the character of the race  from which it  came
—
for  certain  fundamental points  of  resemblance  run
through a race's history, and in the families of nations,
as in single families, the child is father to the man.
Like all  other histories,  that of  the  Scandinavian
people is  lost  at last  in distant clouds of tradition
—
clouds tinted, indeed, with the sunlight  of mythology
* "VVorsaae
;
proofs of this are accumulated in his
' '  Account of the
Danes and Norwegians," &c., a few years back, and since confirmed by
Mr. Eobert Ferguson's ' '  Nortlimen in Cumberland and "Westmore-
land.
"
t " Log of the Pd," 1854 ;    "VVorsaae.
% Laing's "Heimskriugla,"—Preliminary Dissertation;  "Lives of
the Lindsays."
B 2
 - 17 - 
4        THEEE HUNDRED YEAES OF
and poetry
;
grand  in their groupings,  wonderful in
their masses, but not to be seen through.  It is  like
looking at the Spectre of the Brocken—what you see is
yourself, yet not yourself.   These figures are our ances-
tors,  and the traditional creations of the minds and
fancies  of our ancestors ;   but we cannot measure, we
cannot touch them.   Men like  ourselves were living
there,  in the Scandinavian Peninsula,  countless ages
ago—worshipping, fighting, hunting, fishing ;   leading a
sort of amphibious life on the wild coasts of Norwayand
among the islands of Denmark ;   working (according to
their skill) the mines of Sweden ;   a brave, rude, alter-
nately fierce andjolly, race of men ;   and they produced
us.   This much is certain, and we can form a tolerably
vivid notion of their existence at the period when our
story begins.   But the very early heroic history—the
emigration of a hero or sacred race from Asia, and its
settlement amidst the rocks and pines of the North
—
all  that is  a literary cloud-land ;   and the antiquaries
fight amongst each other as to what the cloud is like.*
They are not agreed ;    and much else as they can teach
us—for what do we not owe to the great antiquaries of
the last three centuries in Europe ?—they cannot teach
us this.   That our ancestors believed in a noble old
system of gods and goddesses ;   in Odin and his  wife,
* See, for instance, Blackwell on Finn Maguusen, iu liis  edition ot
Mallet's "Northern Antiquities."
 - 18 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.              5
Frigga ;   in beautiful Balder, and in fair Freya ;    in the
rough Thor, with his  hammer ;    in Frost-giants and all
manner of sprites, serious and playful, is  indubitable
;
and the details  even of  their  creed are  intelligible.
But how it all originated, and whence and how it grew,
is  beyond human ken.   Follow up the longest Norse
pedigree—(that of Gournay is one of them),—its steps,
like those of the ladder of Jacob, are lost in the ascent.
Trace the oldest Norse songs—their notes, like those of
a skylark, rise far away out of hearing in the heaven of
the past.   So weshall confine ourselves on this occasion
to what is  known and certain—the best plan, perhaps,
towards helping the reader to feel  the reality of that
ancient life  to  which possibly he owes his  own—to
which, certainly, he owes that of many of his country-
men,  and much  in  his  country's  institutions  and
character.
It is known, then, that the Norsemen—by whatever
name we call them—were " very early "  settled in the
North.  Amber from their coasts was used in Europe
before Homer;    and some mention is  made of  them
by a traveller who travelled in the  days of Aristotle.*
It seems certain that they were the " Suiones" of the
great treatise of Tacitus on the Germans,! where men-
* Pricliard's  " Eesearclies into the Physical History of Mankind.''
(3rd edit. 3,  383-4.)
f Tac. Germ. c.  44.
 - 19 - 
6            THEEE HUNDRED YEARS OF
tion is made of their fleets and their kingly governments.
That they were wild and warlike, fond of hunting and
fishing, and worsliippers of Hertha—mother-Earth—is
pretty well all that the classic writers tell us of people
whom they looked on as barbarians, and whose wonder
at  the Koman love of  amber inspired  the  historian
first  mentioned with  one of his  usual philosophical
epigrams.*  What more can be learned about them, we
learn from their own Eddas and Sagas,  which were
digested into literature in Iceland, in the twelfth and
thirteenth centuries ;   thus keej^ing alive the memory
of that original Heathenism and Paganism which they
were the last of the great nations to relinquish.t
The j)ositions  of  races and their  traditions  explain
each  other :       we shall  look  at  them, in  this  case,
together.
The  Scandinavian  Peninsula  is   a  vast  table  of
mountain land,  too  high  for  general  cultivation,  or
for  the  pasturing  in  the same places of  very large
herds.   Towards the  sea,  on  the  coast  of  Norway,
great lofty ridges of rocks run out—some bare, some
covered with pines.   In the fiords so formed the sea
flows in for immense distances, filling the valleys and
glens with  lakes  of  deep blue,  on which are  often
* Tac.  Germ.  c.   45.    Wheaton's  " Histoiy of the  Northmen"
(1831), p. 5.
>)-   The world owes much to Mr. Laing for translating the " Heims-
kringla," andfor the vigorous dissertatiou j)refixed to it.
 - 20 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.              7
beautiful islands crowned with ti'ees *   Wild scenery
—
a climate severe but bracing—abundant facilities for
the chase—and, above all,  the sea—an almost omni-
present sea,  seeming to follow up the Norseman (in
these fiords)  to  the  very  heart  of the  hills :     such
conditions explain something in the religion, and much
in  the  character and institutions,  of  the people.   If
there be marks of the East, there are also  marks of
the North still  more recognisable in their mythology.
Whence came those  Frost-giants ?—those  rude wild
visions of a Valhalla, where fighting was the order of
the day, and drinking of the night—where there was a
wild boar or sanglier that could never be eaten, and a
goat inexhaustible in her supply of mead ? f   It is the
Mahometanism of a Northern people, and of a braver
and hardier people, who did not want to drink out of
cups of crystal,  but were content with their good old
cups of deer's horn.j  A man of genius,  of our own
time  (vN^hose   genius  is   especially  Northern  in  its
character),  has  cast  a  glance  of  noble  and  kindly
insight  into  this  ancient  form  of  Paganism.§    He
seizes  as its  essence the consecration of valour.   He
respects its  "rude sincerity" as superior to the "old
* Laing's   " Heimskriugla
;
"   Metcalfe's  "Norway;"  Forester's
"Norway."
f Mallet's "Northern Anti(|uities."   Ed. Clackwell.
+ Laing's " Heimskriugla," p. 128.
§ Carlyle's  "Heroes and Hero Worship."  (Lecture First.)
 - 21 - 
8           THREE HUNDEED YEARS OF
Grecian grace;"*  and especially sympathises with a
certain homely humour which runs through it  all, and
which in one form or another has always characterised
the peoples by whom the faith was once held.   They
figured to themselves the Universe under the beautiful
image of the great Ash Yggdrasill, of which the roots
penetrate to the centre of the world, and the branches
spread over heaven ; —a sacred tree, for ever watered
by the Virgin Nomas or Fates, and affording a place
of meeting to the  (Esir—the gods of their worshij).
It is  not necessary here to detail the whole system :
our business is  only to catch its  spirit and character.
Such conceptions as this—and of the rise of the world
from chaos, and its termination by fire from the funeral
pile of Balder, the son of Odin,—are the conceptions
of an earnest, a tender, and a gifted race.   They were
inspired by the natural instinct of wonder and worship,
and embodied it  in  mystic  and musical song.   And
everything in their society was connected with their
religion.   The kings derived their lineage  from Odin
and Thor ;    their chiefs were pontiff chiefs f—a sacred
aristocracy, like the old Roman patricians.   Death in
battle was noble, for the gods honoured it ;    and hospi-
tality  and such virtues  inviolable,  because the  gods
* Carlyle's  "Hero and Hei'o Worship," p.  49.
t Godar  or  Hof-godar,  such  as  led  the  colonists  to  Iceland.
Whcaton's " Northmen," p. 36.
 - 22 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.              9
practised them.  The faith  acted on the race, and the
race re-acted on the faith ;    while the wild scenery and
free life preserved both living and active ;   the sea (if
we may use a bold figure)  keeping fresh the national
character for the great work to which it was presently
to be called.   Barbarous they were, no  doubt ;    but
never savage.   Everywhere we find  among them the
germs of  all  they afterwards became.*  The fury of
the  Berserker,  in  his  wolf-skin,  was an earlier  and
ruder  form of  the  zeal  of  the  Crusader.   The de-
scendant of the Skald became a Trowvere.  The j^roud,
handsome, blue-eyed  Viking—who, sentenced  to  the
tyrant's axe, prayed only that his long fair hair might
not  be touched by a slave,t—was the  natural fore-
runner of the proud, handsome, equally brave Norman
knight, as he became, in his turn, of inany a gentleman
(gentilhomme or  inan of  family)  and cavalier.   The
conditions of their life  made all this natural ;    but did
they alone (as  the modern philosophy would seem to
imply)  create  it ?    Will  a  sea-board make any race
seamen, and a  hard  climate  make any race  brave ?
Can we feed a people into poets and heroes, with the
certainty with which we can fatten pigs 1    No theory
can be more flattering to some people, but it is a little
* See the  " Heimskringla " of Snorro Sturlesou in Laing's transl.
Laing ;   "Wlieaton ;    Worsaae.
f Mallet's "Northern Antiquities;" Wheaton's  " Northmen,", p.
299.
 - 23 - 
10         THEEE HUNDEED YEARS OF
unfair to tlie  descendants of the conquerors of Europe,
and to tlie memory of their ancestors.
Politically, the Scandinavians were happily situated
—a free, manly people, with secure private rights ;   led
by long-descended chiefs,  who were fit  to  lead them
;
whom they honoured for their bravery, and venerated
for their descent*  In their Things, or public assem-
blies  of  freemen,  a  shrewd modern student  of  the
country and its  history sees the " origin of our parlia-
ments."!  The land was held by a kind of peasant-
aristocracy—small freeholders holding by udal right,
with a subservient class, which we have no reason to
believe was ill-treated.   And if the style of living was
rude, there was none of that squahd misery about it
which we too  hastily assume of  every society  older
than our own.  The sea, the tracts of hunting country,
the slopes of  good land in  the valleys and near the
shores, furnished a race of big bones and warm blood
with meat and drink enough to give them strength to
beat  in  ba.ttle   every  other  race—a  most ijvactical
evidence that they cannot have been starved !         Indeed,
what we shall be so homely as to call the jollity that
breathes  through  the  old  Sagas,  indicates  itself  a
contented, well-to-do kind of folk.
* " Heiinskringla," jjassim ; a fact wliich shows tliat  "uobility " is
older than many writers seem to think,
t Laiug.
 - 24 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             11
" The Norseman's king is on the sea,
Tho' bitter wintry cokl it be,
Ou the wild waves his Yule keeps he,"
is the strain in one of them*  In another, we are told,
that King Sigurd entertained his  men " one day with
fish and milk, the other day with flesh meat and ale." f
And on a third  occasion,  the poet informs us,  that
Erling,  brother-in-law of King Olaf Trygvessen,  who
flourished  in  the tenth  century—" Had always with
him ninety free-born men or more ;   and both winter
and summer it was the custom in his house to drink at
the midday meal according to a measure, but at the night
meal there tvas no measure in drinking."'^
There were, it seems, " silver studs in a row, from the
rim to the bottom of the drinking-horns;" and these
constituted the " measure " which theyneglected in this
way on festive  occasions when the  " floor was strewn
with fresh juniper tops,"§ and the sharp breezes from
the Baltic were neutralised by the genial crackle of the
pine logs.   So  lived  the  great  Juris,  sea-kings  and
vikings, ashore.   But by many of their kin—with their
long hair,  " yellow as silk,"  as  the  Sagas say—such
revels had to be held on salt water ;   they " never slept
*  "Laing's Heimskringia," vol. i.  p. 285.
t Ibid. vol. ii.  p. 31, where IMi'.  Laing remarks that this is  still the
way of living among some classes in Norway.
i Ibid. vol. ii.  p. 18 and note.
§ Ibid, ubi su]}.
 - 25 - 
12         THREE HUNDEED YEARS OF
beneatli sooty roof-timbers, nor drained their drinking-
horn at a cottage fire."*
But one cannot speak long of this memorable race,
which, with all its drawbacks, of ferocity, polygamy, the
drinking-horn, the eating of horse-flesh,f and what not,
had so  much natural  valour,  kindliness,  and poetry
lying in its  heart like unwashed gold, without coming
to speak of its  special relation to the sea.   There were
its characteristics ripened and developed.   There were
its  great triumphs gained.  And there passed into its
very being that love  of, that capacity for, sea life  and
sea  glories  which,  transmitting  itself  for  centuries
through the children of the Baltic, has fed Britain with
commerce and fortified it with navies.   The naval part
of our story is  the only part which classical antiquity
cannot rival.  No Nelson appears in Plutarch.^  And he
who draws his lineage from sea-kings and berserkers
—
from those who discovered America in the depths of old
times, ages before Columbus—laughs at the terrors with
which the ancients investedthe Euxineand the Adriatic.
Early in time and deep in sentiment was the feeling
of the Norsemen for the salt water.   There is  a ship in
their old mythology.  They buried their heroes under
* Ibid.  "Ynglinga Saga.
"
f This eating of horse-flesli was one of the signs of heathenism longest
retained in the North.   Mr.  Laing thinks it  strongly corroborative
of the Asiatic tradition.
t " Quarterly Review, " for July,  1858, art.  "Admii'al Blake," re-
printed in my " Essays from the Quarterly."
 - 26 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.             IS
tumuli which presented " an uninterrupted view of the
sea,"* as if even in death the consciousness of its neigh-
bourhood, the cheeriness of its breezes, would reach the
viking in  his  last  lair.    The Sagas speak, too, of the
dirge  of the ocean for their fallen captains, as if the
ocean itself shared in that feeling for them which they
felt for it.    And this tinge of mysticism which the sea
so naturally inspires is  still  remarked by Northerns to
belong to the Scandinavian blood.f   When they began
to spread southward in their long one-masted galleys,
under the red flag with the raven, the poetry rather
than the politics of the race was probably their first in-
spiration.   Men do not make their great world-move-
ments from the material motives only which the pedant
imputes to them.  These of course play their part ;   but
the immortal and the infinite  in man—the feeling  of
wonder, the  spur  of  enterprise—these  are  the true
sources of great movements and great deeds.   Avague,
potent, unconscious sense of mighty changes to  come
must also  have stimulated the hearts and fancies of
their leaders about the time when we find them roaming
south ;   and " the elite of the nation," we know, was " on
the sea " J from the first.
* As is still evident in those which exist in the Orkneys.  "Worsaae's
"Danes," &c., p. 242.
t Foi' instance, by the Russian writer Herzen.
X Depping,  " Histoire des Expeditions Maritimes des Normands,"
(1826), vol. i.  p. 33.
 - 27 - 
14         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
How early they began the wild pii'atical  expeditions
which ultimately became so  famous, formidable,  and
important, we cannot know with any accuracy.   Were
they in  Scotland in some prehistoric period, and does
this  at all explain the observation of Tacitus on the
" Germanic "  appearance of the Caledonians ;*  or the
unquestionably  Teutonic  and  largely  Scandinavian
element in  the lowland Scottish language ? f  It  may
be so.    It could easily have been so ;   for their " fleets,"
we have seen, had attracted southern notice at  a very
remote epoch—centuries  before  that  eighth  century
towards the close of which their sails  drew tears from
the eyes of Charlemagne.  Be this as it  may, the time
last mentioned found them on the wing ;   forming the
last flight of those great northern swarmswhich overran
and renovated Euiope.  Till after Charlemagne's death,
they made no great movement ;   but their ships were
seen on many shores—heralds  (as  sailors  believe  of
certain birds) of storm and disaster.
Whatever we may think of their ships, or even if we
only call  them galleys, they served to  carry bands of
fighting men from the shores  of the Baltic everywhere
that they can possibly have wanted to  go.   They had
them of various sizes :     many which, when running up
* Tac. Agric. c.  11.
f Jamiesou's  "Scottish  Dictionary;"  Latham's  " English Lan-
guage," p. 551, note.
 - 28 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             15
rivers, they could drag or carry overland ;    and some of
a build and (may we say it ?)  tonnage, not contemptible
even in the eyes of those who have taken their wine in
the gun-rooms of the Vernon and the Queen.  Thus in
the tenth century, the LongSerpent measured 111 feet,
and was not very inferior  to  a respectable  frigate*
With a taste which was really art in the bud, and with
a love which still  belongs to sailors, they delighted to
adorn their craft.   Their ancient domestic ornaments
—
bracelets and anklets of pure gold and delicate work-
manship,  of  which specimens  are  seen  in  northern
museums—indicate progress towards the beautiful in
art ;    and it was natural that they should lavish it  all
on their ships.   Accordingly we read of gilding and
painting in  them—of cunningly-worked dragons glit-
tering in the prow, and of glowing shields hanging over
the gunwale.  Given a " slashing "  breeze, the dragon
pointing south,  and the young light-hearted  Vikings
with the long fair hair hanging over their bear-skin or
wolf-skin jackets,—the picture is a pretty one !        There
are only decks fore and aft, and in the centre they sit
polishing their battle-axes or chanting some old lay, or
telling stories, awful, yet with a queer thread of humour
in them, about the fairy people of all kinds whom they
fancy to live  in mountain, cave,  and sea.   They are
pirates, indeed, but their jjiracy is  based on a certain
* Laiug's " Heimskringla," vol. i.  p. 135.
 - 29 - 
16        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
rude principle,  by no  means extinct  yet—that what
people cannot hold they are not worthy to keep.   You
may rob them if you please, and can ;   and if  you kill
themtheywill die fighting and laughing—sure of Odin's
welcome in Yalhalla  and endless mead*  Such men
were Eagnar Lodbrok, Hastings, Hrolf,  Rollo,  or Rou
himself, and other shaggy sea-lions,  at whose names
mitred abbots crossed themselves in the inmost recesses
of England and France,  yes,  away wp the  Guadal-
quiver, and on the pleasant shores of the Mediterranean.
The Norseman was the last  card in the great game of
Gothic blood versus all  Europe.  He came when it all
seemed over ;    when Charlemagne's  great  scheme of
unity threatened to  bar him up for  ever among his
rocks, pines, and rude seas
; f
he came to destroy and
make havoc at first, but ultimately to  renovate, rein-
vigorate, and refresh the countries into which he poured.
The heavens were opened asif for a deluge, but, when
the  rain had subsided,  still  nobler things than  ever
sprang up from the steaming and apparently exhausted
earth.    The  Norseman  resisted   civilisation   for  a
moment, only that he might be all the fitter for some of
its best work by-and-by.
* Saxo Grammaticus,  "speaking ot a single combat, says,  '  one of
the champions fell,  laughed,  and died,' an epitaph short and ener-
getic."   Strutt's  "Manners and Customs," vol. i.  p.  80.
t Compare Guizot's  "Histoire de la Civilisation en Europe" (Troi-
sieme Legon),
 - 30 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.             17
It has been said  that this  great movement began
before the close  of the  eighth century; about which
time  Northmen's sails  were seen even in the  Medi-
terranean.   It  was in  787,  according to  the  Saxon
Chronicle,  that they first reached England.  But the
ninth was the  real era,  the special  century, of their
triumphs.   Again and again they are  mentioned by
the chroniclers, echoing the dismal traditions  of those
times—as worrying and wasting England and France
;
heralded by fearful  prodigies in  earth and air—fiery
dragons—comets streaming through heaven—signs  of
the  cross  appearing  on people's  clothes—and other
horrible  phenomena scarcely  more horrible  than the
reality  which  they  foretold.*    It  is   one  uniform
picture  of  misery—the  monkish  picture  of  those
Danish  or  heathen invasions :       monasteries  blazing,
orchards torn up, holy abbots slain at the very altar,
destruction, desolation, and despair.   We hear of the
monks of the abbey of Croyland flying to the fens,
having " sunk the plates of gold belonging to the great
altar in the well of the convent."   Nor was a casual
victory over them by an Anglian  or  Saxon  thane
of  much use.   " If  at  any time  they  were  over-
come,"  writes  Roger  de  Hoveden,  " no benefit  re-
sulted therefrom ;   for  on a sudden a fleet, and a still
* Matthew ofWestminster ;   Saxon Chron.
 - 31 - 
18         THREE HUNDEED YEAES OF
greater army, would make their appearance in another
quarter."
" The red gold and the white silver
He covets as a leech does blood,"
sings an old poet*   They are always called, 'par excel-
lence,  by these  old  writers,  " the  heathenmen," the
"pagans
;
"  and, indeed,  it  is  known that they hated
the Church, for the persecutions of Charlemagne ex-
ercised against their out-lying Teutonic fellow-pagans
whom he baptised,  so  to  speak, in  their own blood.
But the admission is also widely made, that the Church
and the Saxons had brought the infliction  on them-
selves by their sins ;   a theory again brought forward
afterwards to explain the  success  of the  conquest by
William the Norman, and not without instruction and
suggestiveness for us even at this hour.
We are not called on to do more than give a mere
sketch  of  the results  of  the  Danish incursions  in
England.  Within a few years  of the  date at  which
Eagnar Lodbrok reached Paris (845), the Danes (851)
wintered at  Thanet.  England could make no defence
against them at  sea, and only a partial  one by land
;
so the  result  was a degree  and  a  permanence  of
Danish establishment in England, such as the " Anglo-
* Lives of Edward the Confessor, printed under the authority of the
Master of the Rolls.   1858.
 - 32 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             19
Saxon" view of affairs  by no means does justice to.*
Northumberland—a term including five  counties and
more—was the first  of their conquests here ;   but East
Anglia, and parts  of the East Saxon country besides,
were under Danish law for  some two centuries before
the time  of William  the Conqueror ;     during which
period, also, four Danish kings sat  (a.D.  1003—1041)
upon the English  throne.   Even the  great  Alfred's
biographers can only claim for him to have saved the
West Saxons from subjection ;t if  he built  ships,  it
was after the  " foreigners "  had given him models
;
and it is  certain that it was with " foreigners," and not
with natives, that they were manned.  What England
generally must owe to the Scandinavians is  clear from
these  facts,  as  from  the traces  of  their  names and
traditions over the land ;   while their special benefit to
her in  a nautical point of view is wholly incalculable,
and wrings admissions favourable to the Scandinavian,
from the sturdiest  friends of the Teutonic element in
her history.^   But it is the misfortune  of the descen-
dant of the Northmen, whether from the  Baltic,  or
from the Baltic through French Normandy, that the
" Anglo-Saxon "  idea should be supposed to be hostile
to aristocracy and traditions, though both Angles and
* Laing's " HeimsTcriugla, " 105.
t Fault's  " Alfred."
X Lappenberg's  "England under  the  Anglo-Saxon  Kings," by
Thorpe, vol. ii.  p. 15.
c 2
 - 33 - 
20         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
Saxons were aristocratic peoples, and though many who
invoke their supposed example must be sprung from
the  older  indigenous  tribes  whom they reduced  to
serfage and bought and sold like cattle *
Nothing is  more striking than the almost  simul-
taneous triumphs in different countries  made by the
Northmen during this  important ninth century.   It
was within  that  period that  they first  ravaged and
then made settlements in both England and France,
the Orkneys, the western coast of Scotland and Man,
and the coast  of Ireland.   Within the same epoch it
was that  Rurik  overran  Russia, and dug deep the
foundations on which still rests its  powerful monarchy ;
and that colonists from Norway settled the remote and
storm-blown but famous island of Iceland, which after-
wards became the depository of the race's  traditions
and the kindly home of its  song.   This wide-spread
roving, always powerful and always successful, indicates
some disturbing causes at home co-operating with the
natural enterprise of the people.   Among these were
the encroachments of Harald Haarfager (Fair-hair), of
Norway, on the  knights, jarls,  and vikings  of  the
country, and his determination to maintain an " order
"
for  which  the  rovers  were  not  yet  ripe;  then the
* It is  a curious but little  known subject,  that of the number of
Britons who survived the Saxon invasions ;    but the tendency is to
make the number larger than was once thought.
 - 34 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             21
influence of primogeniture had something to do with
it,  by sending the younger sons to seek their fortunes
on the  water.*   Wace,  the  Norman-French poet  of
after years, considered them a naturally proud, trouble-
some, gay, luxurious people ;   and saw in that fact the
inspiration of their expeditions :
—
" La geiit de Daneniarche fu toz tems orguillose,
Toz terns fu sorkuid^e, et mult fu convoitose
Fiere fu, prdisaut, gaie e luxuriose. "f
So sings  Wace ;     and no  doubt with his  share  of
truth, too ;    for,  after  all,  the  " causes "  of any great
historic event are infinitely numerous, and at bottom
there is always some force at work inexplicable by the
best  of  us,  and where everybody but the pedant of
materialism pauses to wonder, and feels  that he can
only admire.
Let us come now to our own more special task, that
of the Norse settlement of Normandy ;    the greatest
event in its influence and consequences of that age ;
—
an event, all the results of which the world has not yet
seen, and cannot yet estimate.
It took the best part of a century—that settlement
—from the first  fire  that blazed at Walcheren, to the
day when Hrolf, Rollo, or Rou, stood surrounded by his
* Lappenberg's "Anglo-Saxons."  Note by Thorpe, at  vol.  ii.   p.
17.   Depping, vol. i.  p. 22.   Wheaton's "Northmen," p. 135.
t "Le Roman de Rou."  Ed. Pluquet, p. 38.
 - 35 - 
22         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
Norsemen to receive Neustria from Charles the Simple,
by the waters of the Epte.  It took the stormy lives
of a line  of sea-kings, closing  up with that of Hrolf
or Rollo (called  afterwards, in  French, Ron) himself.
Their battle-axes struck  fiercely at  the gates of the
Frank empire.   Their spears reached far up the French
rivers, as the old poet of one of their Sagas exultingly
boasts, in a strain that has the cheeriness and terror of
a northern gust of wind :
—
"The Norseman's king is on his cruise,
His blue steel staining,
Rich booty gaining,
And all men trembling at the news !
The Norseman's king is up the lioire.
Rich Parthenay
In ashes lay,
Far inland reached the Norseman's spear."*
They swarmed "like clouds  of musquitoes," says a
great historian of  our day,t  and with  fatal  success,
after that eventful period, when " the reign of Louis-
le-Debonnaire shattered the Carlovingian Empire and
let  the  Northmen in."J   The weakness of that un-
wieldy empire, its corruptions in Church and State, and
its  " internal dissensions "  were (precisely as  in Eng-
land §)  the conditions  which favoured  the  dauntless
Baltic hordes.
* The " Heimskringla," translated by Laing, vol. i.  pp. 142, 143,
t Palgrave's "Normandy and England," vol. i.  p. 136.
X Ibid. vol. i.  pp. ]42, 143.
§ Pauli's  "Alfred" (English translation), p. 96.
 - 36 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             .23
Accordingly,  in  837,  they ravaged Walclieren and
Dorstadt, and slew the counts or earls who guarded the
coasts.*   In 841, Oschar, the Dane, came up the Seine
as far as Kouen, and fired it in May.f  In 845, Kagnar
thundered up the river with a hundred ships
;
plun-
dered Paris,  and stripped churches even of the  sur-
rounding trees.+   But the most terrible name of  the
age  was that  of  Hastings, tlie  Dane, of whom the
ancient chroniclers tell  stories which beat all  romance.
This wild heathen formed a wish—almost poetic in its
extravagance—to seize Rome, and strike Christendom
to the very heart.   Pushing into the Mediterranean
—
the early home of civilisation and of art, and of whicli
the balmy air must have tasted to his fierce  crew like
wine—this  shaggy Norseman reached  Luna on  the
Italian coast,  which he took to be the capital of the
Christian world.   In hopes to  gain admission within
its  walls,  he consented to  be baptised ;    immediately
afterwards his followers set up a wild cry of lamenta-
tion,—the  sea-king was dead,—and they prayed to be
allowed to lay his body within the temple of the faith
which he had embraced.  So he was borne on his bier
to  the  church, attended by the  mourners, where he
leaped into life, struck down the bishop with his sword,
* Sismondi's " Histoire des Fran^ais," vol. iii.
t Ibid. p. 379.
X Ibid, uli sup.
 - 37 - 
24<               THREE HUNDEED YEARS OF
and led  the way to  the old  game of slaughter, and
plunder, and fire.    The stratagem is  elaborately nar-
rated by Dudo, the eloquent Dean of St. Quentin, who
flourished  in  the  time  of  the  grandson  and great-
grandson  of  Rollo —a  prolix  and somewhat  prosy
writer—our earliest Norman chronicler, who, no doubt,
heard the story a score  of times as a boy.*  In one
form or another, the legend which sprang out of this
event, as the flower sprang out of the blood of Ajax,
passed far and wide through Italy and France.-)*
Oschar and Ogier, Ragnar and Hastings, such were
the men who prepared Hollo's way.  There is a mono-
tony about their story.   They glide up rivers in their
deadly galleys, planting settlements on their mouths,
whenever they can.   They slay and spoil,  waste and
wanton.  Charles-le-Chauve  buys respite from one of
them, pays " seven millions of livres " for it,  and then
finds  it  a  bad  bargain.^   They search  every  great
stream of those countries—streams which carry them
up as the blood in the human body will carry poison
—
the  Rhine, the  Meuse, the  Seine,  the  Loire,  every
stream that will float them.  They sack or burn scores
of great and famous cities, to the number (taking them
* "Dudo ap. Duchesne" (Hist.  Script.  Normaiin.  Paris.   Folio.
1619), pp. 64, 65 ;   Wheaton's " Nortlimen," p. 167.
f
" Romance and real liistory have the same common origin."—Sir
Walter Scott's " Essay on Romance."
J Sismondi's "Histoire des Franjais," vol. iii.  p. 87.
 - 38 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             25
up at random) of  at  least  eighty-two.*   It  became
plain  that  a  new chapter in  European history was
coming.   Governments could not keep them out.   The
wretched country-people began to see that it was best
to acquiesce in their coming in.   The line of sea-kings
ended in RoLLO, who closed  up the bloody history by
one great triumph, founded a new kingdom, became
the ancestor of the kings of England, and the founder
of their kingship of England, of Norman aristocracy
in England, feudal  law in  England, baronial  parlia-
ments in England;   and who can say how much more
in the history of our nation ?
Who was this famous Hrolf, Eudo Jarl, Rolf Ganger,
Rollo or Rou, who has done so  much in the world ?
His descendants in a hundred years did not know very
particularly ;   being content to inform the Dean Dudo
of St.  Quentin, already quoted,  that  his  father was
" Senex quidam in partibus Dacice," an opulent senex,
whose son Hrolf or Rollo was persecuted by the King
of  Norway, and took to the waters like other brave
men in  the  same diflficulty.   The Sagas  tell  us  in
greater  detail.    He was  of  the  thorough  northern
aristocracy,  son of  the  Jarl  of  More,t and took  to
* Palgrave's  "Normandy and England," where their names are
given.
f So the " Heimskringla," accepted by modern historians, as Laing,
Wheaton, Depping, and Thierry, and not denied, as to the main fact,
hy Sir Francis Palgrave.
 - 39 - 
26         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
roving because Harald Haarfager liad taken to reform,
and was determined to put down the viking work, and
get Norway into  something like  order*  In modern
phrase,  Rollo  fled  from  " centralisation."   His early
history is  vague  and uncertain.   Dudo talks  of  his
being warned in a dream to  shun the king's perfidy,
and of his having mystical visions of his future con-
version to Christianity.   Providence, observes the pious
Dean, foresaw with regard to Holy Church—" ut unde
fuerat flebiliter afflicta inde esset viriliter vegetata,"t
—
that her best  friends  would come out of  the ranks
of her worst enemies.   And he describes, admiringly,
Rollo's  golden helmet  and liis  triple-woven  cuirass,
and sees in all  he does the actions of one destined by
God to serve Christianity and mankind.
His manhood seems to  have been spent  in  wild
piratical,  or  semi-piratical,  expeditions  like  those  of
other Norse kings of the sea.   He made descents on
the  Orkneys and  Hebrides, and those  regions ;      no
doubt strengthening his band of followers wherever he
went.J   He was in England in Alfred's time, where he
certainly spent a winter ;§  where he is  said to have
* Laing's " Heimskringla," &c.
t "Dudo ap. Duchesne," p. 69.
J "Heimskringla."
§  Pauli's "Alfred," p.  91,  note, from Asser.   The tale  about his
friendship,  &c.,  with King Alfred,  is  Dudo's,  and dubious.   Conf.    i
Wheaton, p.  234.                                                            *;
 - 40 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             27
fought  both for Alfred and against him, and fabled
even to have formed some kind of treaty with that
remarkable  monarch,  who  represented  the  growing
principle of order and government, as  Rollo did the
last  vigour of conquest and emigration.   He brought
Englishmen (brother Norsemen, we may suppose) with
him from England to the continent * to help him in
his  wars; and though  in  876  or  879  he had first
appeared up the Seine with the small squadron of an
ordinary rover, we find him in 894, 895, supreme at
Rouen;    while in  898,  he defeated the Franks in  a
great battle.   Next year, he pushed forwards, securing
new ground wherever he went ;    and in 900, attacked
and carried Bayeux, where he married. Pagan-fashion,
or took for his mie (as the "Roman de E.ou"t has it)
Popa, the daughter of Count Berenger.   Popa was the
mother of  the  boy who became William  Duke of
Normandy ;     and from that  rough wooing of  Rollo's
with her—for he snatched her like a jewel out of the
stormed town, in the defence of which her father fell
—
have come many kings, princes, nobles—brave men and
fair women.  Popa was very beautiful,^ and though he
had to separate from her awhile, on marrying Giselle,
* "Dudo ap. Duchesne," p. 73.
f  "Roman de Ron."  Ed. Pluquet, p. 68.
X
" Une lille mult belle .   .   .   mult geute pucellc," says the  Roman
de Ron.
 - 41 - 
28         THREE HUNDEED YEARS OF
Charles the Simple's daughter, he took her back again
to his bosom after Giselle's death *
Rollo was now established as an unwelcome colonist,
a medieval squatter, in Neustria—keeping to the Seine
—with Rouen for  his  head-quarters.   King Charles
could  neither expel him, nor make up his mind to
tolerate him;   but Rollo meanwhile was learning how to
govern, and developing that real faculty for rule which
unquestionably belonged to him.  The Christian natives
began to  come in  from  other districts,  and submit
cheerfully to the  Pagan warrior, who tolerated  their
faith, and, at all  events, knew how to protect with his
good arm those who chose to accept its  supremacy and
direction.   Probably, Popa must be credited with part
of the sea-king's civilisation ;   and she may have helped
to lead her grim husband-conqueror to the foot of the
Holy Cross.   Astrange foreshadowing this of the Una
and the Lion of a far distant Normian, whose ancestor
may have been then chanting rude Norsk verses to his
leader,  the  son  of  the  Jarl  of  More !         He wanted
taming, no doubt, for we hear that when he was be-
sieging a Frank town, and the poor monks and priests
put out the sacred  chemise of the Virgin to  inspire
miraculous ten-or into the heathen, Rolf " laughed " !  t
* Matthew of Westminster
;    William of Jiimieges.
t Matthew of Westminster.   This sacred chemise  was called the
 - 42 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             ^9
What a little  touch of reality that " laugh "  gives to
the old stories, not to mention that an echo of it was
heard long afterwards—in the Reformation!
For a few  years about this time,  we have scanty
information concerning Rollo and his  men.  But his
power must have strengthened and his purposes grown
definite as the years advanced.  In  911, all  the Nor-
mans in France began  to  move in a well-concerted
and deliberate campaign, up the Seine, the Loire, and
the Garonne,  devastating  fields  and  sacking  cities.
Charles begged a truce of three months, after which he
himself renewed the war, and E.0II0 thundered forward
more terribly than ever.   At Chartres, the Franks gave
him a check ;   and he had to retire  and fortify his army
on a mountain, " with heaps of dead flayed  cattle,"
according to Dean Dudo.*  But he soon recovered him-
self and advanced upon the interior of the  country.
With  disorganisation   everywhere,  and  disaffection
amongst his  people, Charles the Simple found it  ne-
cessary to yield.   He sent Archbishop Franco to Rollo
to  offer  terms.   Flanders, the  Norseman rejected  as
marshy and valueless.   Charles then agreed to  yield
Neustria,  and the sovereignty of  Bretagne, if  Rollo
would espouse Giselle, embrace Christianity, and live at
peace with the Franks.   It was in  912 that this ever-
memorable bargain was struck.
*  " Dudo ap. Duchesue," p. 82.
 - 43 - 
30          THREE HUNDEED YEAES OF
Now followed a famous historic scene, which we can
only dimly picture in that far-distant past ;   but which
ought surely to  be as  familiar to  our youth as those
classic  incidents  of which they justly  hear so  much.
King Charles and his barons met Kollo and his Norse-
men in conference, by the sparkling waters, still plea-
sant to the traveller, of the river Epte, at the village
of  St.  Clair.    There,  amidst  a swarm of  the  great
warriors of the age,  Franks of  old Frank extraction
moulded into  a  new breed  as  Frenchmen, looking
curiously into the blue eyes and fair faces  of the men
of the Baltic  (both  sprung from the mighty Gothic
races, and achieving a common destiny in the land of
the Romanised and thrice-conquered Gaul), there was
made the great compact which gave Normandy, and
ultimately  England,  to the  Norsemen.   No line  of
writing accompanied that cession of a splendid province.
RoUo "put his  hands into  the king's  hands,  wliick
never his  father, grandfather, or great-grandfather
did to  any one ;  " *  and [the  last  of  the " Barba-
rians "  became a member of the  system of  modern
Europe.  The Norse life  ended with a characteristic
flash of coarse independence and humour.  Everybody
knows the story,  but it  is  none the worse  for  that.
They suggested to Rollo that he should kiss the king's
foot as part of his homage.  One of his fighting men
*  Dudo, p. 83.
 - 44 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             31
came forward for  the purpose, took up liis  Majesty's
foot accordingly, and toppled over the sovereign in the
act.   " Magnus excitatur risus," says  Dudo,* who had
known Rollo's own grandson in the flesh, and who can-
not have been mistaken about the truth of the anec-
dote.    It  was a  remarkable  sight,  the laughter  of
swarms of  wild and  half-wild warriors by the  little
river  Epte, in  A.D.  912 ;    but it  was seen there that
year ;    the direct ancestors  (in plain terms, the fathers
some thirty times removed) of living Englishmen were
present at it,  and talked of it,—who knows how often ?
—in thick-walled Norman castles over homely fare?
Next came Rollo's  baptism—his  solemn adoption
into  Christian life.    He was baptised by Franco, the
Archbishop, in the Cathedral of Rouen.  Duke Robert
(whose name he assumed) acted as  godfather, and all
sorts of potentates stood reverently by.   Seven days he
wore the white garb of a catechumen ;    and on each of
these days he made some special gift  to  the church.f
The eighth day he began dividing his lands among his
followers—verbally and without charter—and using for
purposes of  measurement (according  to  old  Scandi-
navian practiceJ)  a  reeh,  or  rope.   At once he  set
earnestly about organising his Neiistria,  Normandie,
* Dudo, pp. 83, 84.   Few of the "good stories" of tlie  last century
even, are so well authenticated as this.
t Ihid. p. 85.
t Ibid. p. 75.   Depping, vol. ii.  p. 125.
 - 45 - 
32         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
or Northman's-land, into a well-regulated dukedom in
the feudal fashion ;    while by his marriage with Giselle,
the king's daughter, he completed his alliance with the
system of France.   Nothing is  more certain in history
than that Rollo proved worthy of his position ;   that he
was a real governing man of the best type, his " bar-
barism" being duly allowed for.    He gave the country
peace, order, and justice ;   restored  everywhere ruined
buildings, and encouraged agriculture ;*  contented his
fellow-adventurers, and satisfied the  Church.  It  will
fall  in  our way again to  speak of the results of his
invasion of Normandy, but meanwhile we may quote
from a philosophical historian a brief summary of them.
According to  Sismondi, there flowed from his  settle-
ment in France an end of the  devastation and dis-
turbances of the province ;    a renewal of its  national
character ;   the formation of the French-Romance lan-
guage, out of which grew a beautiful poetry ;   a generous
zeal for the Church, and for all that could do it honour
;
and a breathing into the laws and customs of I'esprit
de vie, Vesprit de liberU—the natural characteristic of
a gallant race.f   In a few generations the race seemed
transformed, but the gerrtis  of its greatness all  appear
in what we learn  of its  Baltic  life.    Like their  own
beloved sea, to which they owed so  much, the Norse-
* " Dudo ap. Duchesne," p. 85.
t Sismondi's "Histoire des Fran9ais," vol. iii.  334 et seq.
 - 46 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.             33
men changed tlieir  hues,  and perhaj)s a little  their
flavour,  according  to  the  shores  and  skies  of their
various settling-places.   But deep blue, green, or darkly
purple, the sea is  ever in  body the  same  element
;
and  so  it   was with  them.   Rollo  was,  after  all,
a supreme specimen of the ancient  Norwegian king
or jarl,  only with a  higher  field  of  action than be-
longed to  such fierce  yet  cheery Northerns  as  that
Olaf  (for   instance),  who  " coidd  walk  outside  his
ship on the oars,  while his men were rowing the Ser-
pent."
There is  little  to  tell  of the closing scenes of Ron's
stormy and varied life,   which had begun with hea-
thenism and sea-roving, and ended under the peaceful
shadow of the Church of Christ,  amidst the gradual
formation of such a settlement into order as that age
permitted.   His " re-marriage "  with Popa, after  the
death of Giselle, is  perhaps the most suggestive little
touch of personal interest  in his later story,—a gleam
of poetry among the shadows that  flicker round the
fisfure of an asfed  sea-king and feudal  didve, hid from
us in the darkness of near a thousand years ago.   But,
indeed, there flits  before one in  reading of the Norse-
men of the  days of old many a fitful  flash  of such
poetry ;   and ancient tradition tells  us of King Knut,
or Canute, that being rowed in his barge in the waters
of the fen country, he was startled into an outbreak of
 - 47 - 
34         TIIEEE HUNDRED YEARS OF
most primitive verse  by hearing the  singing  of  the
monks of Ely*
What the numbers were  of  these  " followers "  of
Rollo's—Northmen, Danes, Englishmen, and othersf
—
who seem to have come round him from all the settle-
ments and vikingar lairs of the Scandinavians, it is not
possible to know exactly.   It was sufficiently large to
fill  Normandy with a feudal aristocracy or baronage,
which became in a few generations one of  the most
powerful bodies  of  men in  Europe, and put on the
head of its  leader the  crown  of  England.  Sismondi
estimates them at 30,000.J   They were variously pro-
vided for,  it  is  certain,  according to their various im-
portance ;    or, as the " Roman de Rou" §  has it,
—
" Solonc lor genz servises, e solenc lor bontez,
Soloiic lor gentilesce e solenc lor aez."
But not an acre of land was given by charter, nor
is  any Norman document found  before the reign of
Richard-sans-Peur.||   " Terram fidelibus suis funiculo
divisit,"  Dudo says ;   and in this primitive way passed
a  great  province to  the  children  of  the  Northern
ocean.   The age, at best, is  dimly seen by us at this
* Tliis tradition is at least as old as the 13th century.   Lapi^enberg's
"Anglo-Saxon Kings," voL ii. p. 219, note.
+ Palgrave's "Normandy," vol. i.  p.  671.
J Sismondi, " Histoire des Frangais," iihi siqj.
§  " Roman de Rou."  Ed. Pluquet, p. 67.
II    Falgvave, vol. i.  pp. 693, 694.
 - 48 - 
1276413
A NORMAN HOUSE.              35
long distance  of  centuries ;    and who shall point out
in its  twilight  any one  solid  or  definite figure,  and
say—" There, in  that  mist  is  my ancestor " ?    Does
it not seem, in the nature of things, impossible ?
We are  of  opinion, however, that it  is  not impos-
sible  in the case of  the House  of  Gournay, and we
now proceed  to  show on what we rest  this  belief.
Let us state—the true rule  in  all  genealogical mat-
ters—first,   what  is   certain ;    second,  what  is   pro-
bable.
It  is  certain  that  lordships were bestowed in the
way above  narrated ;     that  there were,  at  first,   no
documents  attesting  the  settlements.   It  is  certain,
that  of  such  lordships,  " Gournay," in  Upper Nor-
mandy
—
Haute Normandie—was by its  position,  on
the frontier  or  marches  of  France  Proper,  a  most
important one, would be established  early, and given
to some conspicuous  and  deserving  fighting-man  of
the  sea-king  breed.   Hace  and  family were  always
of importance in  the  eyes of the Norsemen.*  It  is
certain that as soon as there are charters, there appear
lords  of  Gournay ;       and not  less  so  is   it   certain,
that  early  Norman tradition  fixes  on their  founder
* A Saga, says Depping, "ne s'occupe que d'une famille heroique ;'
in short,  it is a family history.   And the Norsemen roved,  says Lap-
penberg, in tribes or clans under their heads (" Ang.-Sax. Kings," vol.
ii.  p.  13.)   Very likely Rollo had kinsfolk with him in greater num-
bers than we know.
D 2
 - 49 - 
86         THREE HUNDEED YEARS OF
among the companions of Rollo, and calls him EuDES*
What then, taking these certainties  together,  can be
more probable than that such a tradition is  perfectly
true ?      Or,  can any plausible  ground be  shown for
thinking it false ?
But let us make this matter a little more intelligible.
The name of Eudes rests on tradition, yet this is not a
case in which tradition is  exposed to the doubtfulness
so commonly attached to  it.    This is not a case of the
poetic mythus,—like  that of the Dark-Gray Man, the
legendary founder of the Douglases—the Husbandman,
the shadowy progenitor of the Hays,—or many other
such vague figures well known to the students of gene-
alogy.   These are all placed in romantic situations, and
are  fairly  exposed  to  the  criticism  which Niebuhr
employed to demolish the wilder legends of early Rome.
In the case of Eudes, we find  nothing to  startle  any
critic.    No supernatural feats of heroism are attributed
to  him ;     he  does  not  scatter  whole  armies  in  the
doubtful moments of great battles, or loom upon us in
the horizon with the features of a god.   He is  made
—
what we know absolutely that hundreds of founders of
*  "Record of the House of Gournay," liy  Daniel Giirney,  Esq.,
F.E.S. (printed for private circulation).   Mr. Gurney refers to  "De-
scription de la Haute Normandie," vol.  i.  p. 13 ;    Turner's " Letters
from Normandy," vol.  ii.   p.  40; Cotniau's  "Normandy," p.  39;
MS. " Histoire de Gournay, j)ar N. Cordier," in the public library at
Rouen.
 - 50 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.              37
Norman families must have been—a follower of Eollo,
sharing in his chieftain's fortunes.   In short, Eudes is
a na'nie  supplied  by tradition  to  somebody whose
existence  is,   after  all,   a  matter  of  certainty.   Why
should not tradition, with no great lapse of time to go
astray in, have the name right?  These considerations,
together, induce us to accept the tradition as a reality,
and to pronounce Eudes the patriarch of the House.
For  the  rest,  all  about  Eudes is  dark.   He is
nominis umbra.  From what breed of jarls or vikings,
Odin-worshippers,  sea-rovers,  fair-haired  warriors,  he
drew his blood, who will ever know ?    Not a pedigree
in Europe is  perfectly ascertainable beyond his time
;
no,  not  after  the  researches  and speculations  of  a
Leibnitz or a Gibbon.  Este and Savoy, Guelph and
Nassau, we feel  the  force  of  their ancestors  in  the
darkness  of  early  ages,  as  the  astronomers  do  the
perturbing force  of  an undiscovered  planet ;     but we
have no instruments wherewith to see them by.   Yet
Eudes was a reality as thoroughly as we—the root of
soldiers,  lords,  crusaders,  knights, who can be linked
together life  after life  down through the feudal men
and their country-gentlemen successors, to quite modern
days :      those  of  the modern England, its  Quakerism,
commerce, and schemes of business and philanthropy.
We shall, for the present, take this thread of blood as
a guide through a portion of the history of England,
—
 - 51 - 
38         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
shall  endeavour to  make a  single  group of persons
figure in little  cabinet-pictures of the history of each
time,—always with an eye to their kindred character,
and never  quite  forgetting  the  old  Norse  ancestors
attempted to be described in this chapter.   Such seem
to us  the  principles,  such  the  aims  of true  family
history,
"GouRNAY," as  we have said  already,  lies  in  the
Haute Normandie, on the north-eastern borders of the
province,  and its  earliest  dependency from Eudes's
time was the Norman part of the Pays de Bray; an
irregular country, well varied with wood, arable land,
picturesque hill,  and fertile  dale.   To the north lies
the Pays de Caux;    on the west and south, the Vexin
;
on the east, the famous little  Epte divides it from the
rest of France.   The country is  now one of the plea-
santest and most prosperous in Normandy—a healthy,
rural country, celebrated for its butter and Neufchatel
cheese, and occasionally sought for its salubrious wa,ters
by seekers after quiet and health.   Gournay—the town
itself—has its three thousand inhabitants, and wears a
mixed aspect of comfort and activity,  set  amidst fine
scenery,  such  as  an  Englishman  heartily  relishes.
Ascend the hilly heights round its neighbourhood, and
a beautiful view lies  beneath you ;   the valley of the
Epte clothed with fine woods, through which the river
 - 52 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.             39
glimmers  pleasantly  at  intervals,  pasture  land  and
arable land both rich, and hills covered with apple and
pear trees, grown for  the making of cider and perry.
Norman churches of the native  style rise  amidst all
this cheerful beauty, to tinge it  softly with old memo-
ries  and the sentiment of the past ;   and while a few
chateaux, with their round turrets and peaked spires,
still  harbour the survivors of the nobility of France,
traces of ruined wall and old foss  recall those earlier
lords whose history  we are  writing.    It  is  a  scene
where  an Anglo-Norman feels  not  quite a  stranger,
and yet has the piquancy of mingling with this  the
consciousness that he is  not in his native  land.   To
visit it is a kind of historic holiday.
No doubt, Gournay and its  neighbouring  districts
wore  a very different  aspect  to  the  eyes  of Eudes,
when a  little  unfortified  village  on a  marshy sjDot
represented it,  and forest and morass overran whole
miles.    But we  may be  perfectly  certain  that  he
followed  Rollo's  example, and began that process  of
civilisation  which, after  all,  was the real  commence-
ment of its prosperity to-day.   The more " barbarous "
Norsemen, we know—those who shrank from baptism
—were settled in a kind of colony about Bayeux ;    and
hence  we may be  sure  that  the  Lord of  Gournay
embraced Christianity—the first  and most important
step towards civilisation.   And in  the process which
 - 53 - 
40         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
followed—which created a new Normandy and laid the
foundation of its present eminence among other depart-
ments of France—we see the justification  of  E.olIo's
conquest, and the purpose of Providence in preparing
Scandinavia for sending mento this work.  The Roman
power had gone ;    the Frank government had failed
;
what remained ?    The Hand which may be seen every-
where in history drew from the officina gentiurii  (as
the  Northern  Peninsula  was  early  called)  a  fresh
weapon, and the Norseman supplied a new governing
man to Europe, while he received a nobler faith and
a higher culture for himself  To rule :     this  was his
mission ;    for this he was made so  strong, and yet so
plastic, and his very viking barbarism was but a kind
of discipline  which,  like  the sea on which he lived,
preserved his strength and health.   In projDortion as a
family contributed to lead in Europe—saw when it had
new work to do, and applied itself to doing it—is  its
history worth writing and reading ;     and this truth is
the  foundation  of  all   honourable  and  pardonable
" family pride."   The meaner forms of this feeling are
ignoble,  but  the  feeling  itself  is  natural  and true.
Hence, in this narrative, we are doing justice to many
families, though only directly employed upon the story
of one, and may help, perhaps, in telling that story, to
suggest  some hints  towards  the  vindication  of  the
Norman.
 - 54 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             41
But, for the present, we shall pause in the narrative,
having found in the Norse Eudes the founder of the
race.   All, we again repeat, is  dim and shadowy, dark
and indefinite,  about the patriarch of this,  as  of all,
families.   It is  a Force rather than a Person that is
present with us when we think of him.  But we may
safely  fancy  him baptized  at  Bouen ;      building  up
fortresses   and  walls ;        clearing  woods  and  settino;
ploughs going
;
putting down thieves and disorderly
irregular people in  his  own lordship ;     looking up to
Bollo as his chief and example, and slowly losing  (half
unconsciously  to  himself)  the  old  inbred  way  of
thinking about  the world  and life  proper  to  Scan-
dinavia—retaining  chiefly  the  manhood  and valour
which formed the substratum of the more undeveloped
capacities  of  the  race.   Such  we  may  fancy  the
position  of  Eudes in  the  beginning  of  the  tenth
century.
 - 55 - 
^
 - 56 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             43
Coucy ;   and it  is  about the same date that we make
something like a personal acquaintance with the great
shadowy potentates  from  whom sprung the  Anglo-
Norman aristocracy.
This early darkness—this hour before the daybreak
of history—is  a perplexing time.   And the fact of its
existence  does  something to  favour  a  popular  but
unsound theory.   According to this theory, the families
—royal and noble—of Europe sprang up in the night
of the Past,—much as  mushrooms do.   Any casual
adventurer—stout of heart and strong of hand—could
found  a  family ;     and everything  in  its  subsequent
history  is  explained by the  circunnstances  in  which
he managed to place it.    But on reflection and obser-
vation the plausibility of this view disappears.   For,
first,  we  know that  aristocracy  or  nobility  existed
among the European races in the very depths of old
times—as Tacitus, the Sagas, the Saxon Chronicle, and
the  most early  historians  sufficiently  evince.   And,
secondly, absence of record cannot be made evidence
of the non-existence of any person or fact.   If RoUo
was accompanied by swarms of sea-kings and vikings,
why should not the landholders of the next three or
four generations in Normandy have been sprung from
them? that is,  from races  reckoned  sacred  in Scan-
dinavia beyond our era,—and, so,  originally,  of a vis
greater than  that given to  the average of  mankind.
 - 57 - 
44         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
It is  a mysterious subject,  and we cannot explore it
far.   But, at least,  it  is  better to  acquiesce in that
mystery, than to suppose that aristocracies rose casually
out of the pell-mell conflicts of people naturally equal
;
—luck helping any man to the top, and keeping him
there,
—
chance making hero after hero come out of his
line ;—and all  this in  a world  so  full  of order,  and
harmony, and law !        We would not push anything too
far,—but  the  hereditary  doctrine—the  view which
recognises  aperr}   yivovs=virtue  of  stock—as  some-
thing transmissible  and transmitted beyond recorded
time,—at  least  we  say  that  doctrine  helps  to  ex-
plain  the appearance of  Caesars  and Scipios, and the
long roll  of minor heroes, within particular kindreds
among men.  Perhaps, too, we ought to allow more for
Tradition as  an  embodier of truth in  affairs  genea-
logical,  than has been quite  the fashion in literature
of late.*
But to our story.   Rollo or Rou (a  sea-king turned
into a feudal lord)  departed from this world at a great
age in some year not definitely known, but which the
best of the learned fix  somewhere about A. D. 930 or
931.t   He was buried  in  the  church  that  he had
* There are  some good remarks  on  this  point  in  Drummond's
*' Noble British Families," but  we think the view pushed much too
far in that splendid work.
t Palgrave ;    Pluquet ;    Depping.
 - 58 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.             45
founded at Rouen,—where they still  show his tomb,
—
and was succeeded by his  son  (Popa's boy)  William,
called Longue-epee.  We mayguess, if we like, in what
year his vassal, and probably friend, Eudes of Gournay
and the Pays-de-Bray, died,—but that is  all  we can
do.   It will be a generation or two before we are quite
clear about the pedigree.   But one thing is  certain,
—
certain as the succession of their Suzerains the Dukes,
—that  there were  lords  of  Gournay  in  those  days
—flourishing  and  waxing  strong,   and  doing  (and
tahhig,  no  doubt,)  their  share  of  what  was going
forward.
For the contemporary of William, and succes'sor  of
Eudes, we have still  to  trust to  tradition—local  tra-
dition,  embodied in  the local  historians.   His name,
we are  told,  was Hugh,—a  name convertible  with
Eudes  or  Eude,—as  we  find  it   written  in  chro-
nicles.   This  Hugh gets  the  credit  of having forti-
fied Gournay and made it   a place  of  strength  by
building (near the- present church of St.  Hildevert) a
citadel duly accompanied with double ditch and tower.
No doubt this was but an elementary kind of castle,
as yet ;    and much more would be done for it by Hugh's
successors.    However, feudalism  (as  the  founder  of
new order and protector of growing civilization)  could
do nothing without castles.   They kept foreign enemies
out,  and domestic  turbulence  under  some restraint.
 - 59 - 
46         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
Inside theii'  thick, rude walls grew up by-and-by the
home feeling,—the strong love of kin, and honourable
pride  in  family,—the  manners and  courtesy  which
formed  and  polished  Europe,  and  other  valuable
things,* not soon to be forgotten, however much their
founders  and encouragers  may be !        But in  Hugh's
time, all  this was only groiving;   and the twelve or
thirteen  years'  reign  of  William  Longsword was a
troublous time.
The  handsome  Duke  William—for  Dean  Dudo
insists  on his  fine  face and stately  bearing—had a
stormy reign and a bloody end.   He seems to have
been a high and yet weak character, unfit for a task
which was at once terrible and delicate.   Besides the
regular  work—the  governing  a  country just  seized
by a fresh race,  and bringing the elements of pros-
perity out  of the ruin caused by war—besides,  too,
the hackwoodsman kind of  labour which Rollo  had
vigorously commenced,—William had a high political
game to play.   He was brought into  relations  with
the potentates of the continent ;     and if  he became
too much Frank, he had his  own Danish party
—
always strong in the Cotentin and elsewhere—to fear.
He wavered, and thought of becoming a monk in his
favourite  Jumieges, and having done with the world
and  its  struggles  and cares ;      but  the  clergy  over-
* Guizot,  " Civilisatiou en Europe.   Quatrieme Lejon."
 - 60 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             47
persuaded liim out of  tliis  scheme.  Presently,  Brit-
tany—which  Charles  had  given  to  the  Northmen
^whether he had a right to  do so,  or  not)  in  Ron's
time—revolted from William.   He defeated them in
battle,  and drove their Count—Alan—across the sea.
Then,  the  " Danish  party,"  headed by one  Riulph,
rose against him.  For a moment, Longsword seemed
to  want resolution  at  the news that the rebels  had
crossed  the  Seine,  and were encamped near Rouen
;
but he behaved well—as well as his father could have
done.   He placed himself at the head of three hun-
dred  stout  men whom he kneAv to be  true  to  the
last :    clashing their shields together,
—
Tnore Dacoruvi,
(Dudo's expression),—they rushed on the enemy, who
everywhere  gave  way.  Many were  drowned in  the
Seine ;    and the wounded shrunk away, to  die  in  the
woods.*  It is  a dramatic, but no doubt a quite true
incident, (why should nothing be credible but what is
commonplace ?)  that just  as  he won this victory he
received the news of the birth of his  son Richard
—
the famous Duke Richard Sans-Peur.  Richard's mother
was  one  Espriota,  or  Epiota,  united  to  William,
—Norse  fashion, —r)iore   Danico ;        and  similarly,
Richard himself continued the  line—not  by Emma,
his  Capetian  duchess,  but  by Gunnora,  a  Danish
damsel.   These domestic facts symbolise the struggle
* DuJo of St. Quentiu.   (Duchesne, p. 94).
 - 61 - 
48         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
between  tlie   Norse  and  Frencli  elements  in  the
position  of  tlie  House and the  Eace.  Wonderfully
as the Norsemen were modified in language, manners,
culture,  by  their  new country,  they  despised  the
French, and the French hated them, to the last.
Longsword displayed,  all  along,  some of the most
prominent characteristics of the Normans.  He was a
somewhat magnificent prince, and acquired his  name
of Longue-epee from the brilliant weaponwhichhe loved
to wear.   Then,he was passionately fond ofhunting, and
often pursued it  in  the green glades of the old Forest
of Lions,
—
Lions-la-Foret, —which once  spread  over
many parts of the province, including our Gournay.  To
an accident of the chase, old writers attribute his resto-
ration of the famous Monastery of Jumieges.  They tell
us that a w^ounded wild beast turned furiously on him,
and forced him to  seek refuge among its  dilaj)idated
walls, where he found two  old  monks returned from •
exile, who offered him their poor hospitality.*   Thank-
ful for the service, William made it  his care to restore
the building, and often  felt  the temptation  to retire
to its solitude and peace.   But these were not for him.
Were there not fresh Norse immigrations to receive, and
invasions  of a  plundering  nature to  keep off?—the
Danish party (strong in  the Bessin and Cotentin) to
manage ?—Brittany to keep down ?—and all  the con-
* Will, of Jumieges, lib. iii.,  c.  8.
 - 62 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             49
tinental complications pressing on him from bis very
position of Duke or Comes of Normandy?
Little good came to  William from his  connection
with the potentates of the  continent.    He married
Luitgarda of Vermandois, but be loved Sprota ;   and it
was Sprota (as we have said before) whowas the mother
of his renowned successors.   He took up the cause of
Louis d'Outremer, son  of  Charles  the  Simple, when
Louis  returned from  England in  936,  to  claim  his
father's  throne.    Three  years  afterwards,  he  was
against bim again, leagued with the great rebellious
vassal Hugues, Comte de Paris, father of the founder
of the new French line.*   But the scene changed once
more.  Louis leagued himself with Otho of Germany,
—
doing homage to bim at Lorraine ;   made a truce with
Count  Hugues ;    and  turned his  arms against  Nor-
mandy.  William hastened to  make peace, and swear
fidelity,  at  Amiens ;   doing  homage for  his  Norman
duchy, and  receiving,  too,  the  sea-coast  country  of
Coutances and Avranches.  These districts  border on
Brittany, and had been abandoned to that province by
Charles  the  Bald.f   It  was an accession  worthy of
Eollo's son ;   but the pride which it nourished, and the
• Hugues was son of Robert Ic  Fort, Comte D'Outre-Maine,—son
of WiTTiCHiND, a German adventurer, who came to France.   With
WiTTiCHiND stops the greatest pedigree in Europe—that of the house
of Bourbon.
t Richer and Flodoard ap. Depping, 4,  1.
 - 63 - 
50          THREE HUNDEED YEARS OF
envy which it provoked were soon pregnant with deadly
consequences.   A quarrel in a sea-port town became
the cause of his death, filled  Normandy with terror and
sorrow, and put the very independence of the province
in peril.
It happened thus :    Arnulf,  or Arnoul, Marcliio  (a
word still  represented, in  a  somewhat  meaningless
manner, by our Marquis)  of  Flanders, stormed and
took the castle  of Montreuil in the Artois, driving out
Herluin, the governor, by force.   Herluin applied to
William, who restored him immediately in  the same
manner,  thus  making Arnulf  a  deadly foe.     The
Marchio soon found an occasion when the haughtiness
of the Norman displayed itself in a way to bring fresh
enemies upon him.  It was at an assemblage called by
the king of France, at the palace of Attigny-sur-Aisne,
where Longue-dpde forced himself in, without invitation,
and insulted  Otho of Germany to his  beard, before
half-a-dozen of the greatest grandees of the North of
Europe.*   This  from  the  Pirate's  Son !      Arnulf
eagerly fomented the indignation of Otho and of Count
Hugues.  Otho returned to Germany, and the Marchio
prepared his revenge.
But Arnulf had a wholesomedread of Normanbattle-
axe and Norman spear ;   and his  vengeance took the
form of the basest perfidy.  The handsomeLongue-dpde,
* Ibid, uln supra.
 - 64 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             51
with all  his  faults,  had a kind and trusting  heart
;
though weak, he was brave ;    though vain, he was pious
;
—tlie  monk's modesty lurked  under his sho\^y garb,
and the solitudes of Jumieges had a whisper of attrac-
tion for his palace.   He was a character to be imposed
upon by an appeal to his feelings, and Arnulf sent such
an appeal to lure him to his doom.
Would the Duke meet Arnulf of Flanders on an in-
terview of reconciliation—to forget and forgive ?    The
Duke agreed.   So the place was fixed,—an island on
the Somme at Piquigny, some miles from Amiens,
—
a pleasant little  island on that chief river of Picardy.
Here came William, and took boat, with but two Nor-
mans, on the appointed day.   He met the traitor  on
the island, who came limping (claudicans, says Dudo)
—
for he was gouty—to salute him.   They had long con-
ference, and parted with a kiss—a sacred little  cere-
mony in the Middle Ages—William taking boat again
on the quiet stream.   He had not long  pushed off,
Avhen there was a cry from Arnulf's men on shore—it
was to  call  him back to hear a message—something
that their master had forgotten to  say.   He turned,
unsuspectingly, and in  another moment was brutally
slain,—one " Balzo "  being murderer-in-chief*  Thus
fell, at the hands of mean assassins, the second Duke of
* Dudo de St.  Qucntin ;    Duchesne, pp. 104, 5.    The description of
William's assassination is one of Palgrave's best passages.
E 2
 - 65 - 
52         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
Normandy ;    and Rollo's high blood was shed by caitiffs
whom Providence expressly intended such men as he to
rule.   'Twas in the year (as near as can be calculated)
943, and to this hour tradition fancies that it  can show
the very  spot.*    The grief  and the  excitement in
Normandy were immense.   Amidst the tears  of the
people and the prayers of the clergy, William was laid
near his father in the Cathedral of Rouen.  There was
mourning in  Normandy from Avranches to Cormeilles,
from Evreux to  St. Valery.   We may fancy Hugh de
Gournay's horror, in that rude but pious time, when the
news reached him amidst his architectural and other
operations in the neighbourhood of the little Epte.
For a time,  it  seemed as  if Normandy would fall
under France, and the whole history  of France and
England be something different from what it  became.
Richard, William's son, was a child ;    had been sent to
Bayeux to be educated (as his father had been united
to  his  mother) Danish fashion
—
more Danico.  They
kept up the  old  Norse tongue  about  Bayeux,  and
were still  given to  swearing by Thor.  So William,
after naming the lad his successor, one day at Fecamp,
had forwarded him there to be instructed cum magna
diligentia.   He learned to  read, to  speak Danish, to
use bow and buckler, and to play at chess.   When the
news of his father's murder came, a kind of primitive
* Depping, liv. 4, cap. 1, note.
 - 66 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.             53
Council of Regency formed itself,  of very rough  un-
diplomatic personages, no doubt,—but very fit for their
business.   Bernard the Dane was one,  and Lancelot
(kin to Rollo), and Osmond of Centvilles,—ancestors
all of houses of renown.  They were bound to be very
watchful over their  ducal boy, for  Louis d'Outremer
had come to  Kouen,—with  the  best  intentions,  no
doubt,—but far too busy about him to be pleasant to the
loyal citizens  of that town.   The Norman chroniclers
tell us, that,—men and women both,—they mobbed the
king's hotel, and called  out furiously for their young
duke.   The women were notable viragos, especially, as
other Norman incidents prove ;   whence, we suspect, that
more damsels of the sea,-queen (or shield-virgin=s%'oM-
meyar) breed came to Normandy from the Baltic, than
people  think.    Gunnora, we  have  said  before,  the
mother of the later dukes, was of this  race, and per-
haps, also, Herleva, or Arlotta, mother of William the
Conqueror, by-and-by.
The adventures  of Richard's boyhood,—how Louis
took him to bring him up as  varlet or page about his
court ;   how rigorously he and his  governor,  Osmond,
were watched there at  Laon ;   how, by a subtle strata-
gem, Osmond whisked him awayin a bundle oifourrage,
riding hard with relays  of horses, till  he safely depo-
sited his most precious bundle in the chateau of Coucy
;
—all  this  long furnished  a  theme to  minstrel  and
 - 67 - 
54          THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
trouvere, or to chronicler as  poetic and wonder-loving
as they.   But who knows how much of all this is true ?
or who, on the other hand, can venture to say it is  all
false ?     Strange things have happened in the  world,
and some of the earliest poetry sprang out of fact.   Let
us pass, however, to what is undoubted.  Louis invested
young Richard  in  his  duchy,  and  assumed  (with
Osmond as a governor) the charge of his youth.   But
the Normans distrusted the French king, and many of
them became the lieges of Hugues, his turbulent vassal,
—playing, thus, Hugues against  him.  King Louis, in
self-defence, treated with Hugues in  his turn ;   secured
his alliance  by the promise of Bayeux ;    rallied  to his
side Arnulf and Herluin and their followers, and several
Bishops of Burgundy with theirs;  and filled Normandy
with invading troops preparatory to its  subjection and
partition.
The peril was imminent.  The enemy burst through
Normandy, pillaging  churches and convents on their
way, and for  a  moment it  seemed as  if  the noble
duchy of the sea-kings would become an inferior  part
of France.   In this crisis, the Norman gentlemen dis-
played consummate address—that  combined audacity
and dexterity so characteristic of their race.   Bernard
the Dane was instantly commissioned to  wile  away
from Louis the advantage of the situation, by inducing
him to accept the fealty of the Normans, himself, and
 - 68 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.              55
throw over-board  tlie  great vassal  to whom he  had
given the Bessin and Bayeux.  Louis agreed ;   was re-
ceived in Kouen with shouts ofjoy and ringing of bells
;
ordered Hugues to give up the Bessin, and went him-
self to receive the homage of Bayeux.  From thence
proceeded  to  Evreux with the  same object,  and so
returned to Bouen,—the betrayed Hugues meanwhile
vowinof veno^eance.
At this crisis  there was stationed, at a place  called
ChiereshoTC, in the Cotentin—(a place very celebrated
now, and likely to be more so under its modern name of
Cherbourg)—a Danish fleet.    The commander of this
fleet was Harald,—in  all  probability, though it  is  not
entirely certain, Harald Blaatancl {Black-tooth, or Blue-
tooth)—King of  Denmark, and  grandfather  of  our
famous King Canute.  When he came, or why he came,
is  uncertain.   The story of Avhat he did  is  variously
told,  according as the narrator is  Norman or  Frank,
and it  is  only with approximate certainty that we can
fix  the year as  945.*   But the results of his arrival
are clear.   He helped his kinsmen to free themselves.
" Noble Norse valour "  was once more brought into
play :    the French were beaten ;   the King taken ;    the
province rescued.   Young Richard—now a  brilliant,
* See the story well discussed in  Dopping, liv.  4,  1,  and Appen-
dices.   Sismondi,  " Hist, des Fraugais," iii.  424, ctseq.
 - 69 - 
56          THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
promising boy-prince—was restored to his people and
to Normandy, and Louis did not escape until he had
once more renewed the grant of  the Duchy in  the
memorable village of St. Clair-sur-Epte,   Long after-
wards, on a still  more memorable scene, the greatest
man of Ron's line referred to  that interview.   It was
amongst the topics with which William the Conqueror
refreshed  the proud memories of his  chivalry before
launching them at Hastings on the Saxon lines.
Richard Sans-Peur was now an independent duke.
He had his own place and policy in Europe, and knew
how to maintain them.   He allied himself with Count
Hugues, whose daughter  Emma—early  betrothed  to
him—he married in  9G0.    The Normans were  un-
doubtedly among the chief  supports of the  Capetian
dynasty ;   and it  is  not the least  important of  their
achievements that they mainly helped to  place a new
and lasting family on the throne of France.*  So just
was the presentiment of sorrow with which the great
Charlemagne had gazed on their sails.
Richard was a true Norman, of the modern Norman
character, which during his long reign established itself
as  a  new type.   Old Norse  daring,  modern feudal
accomplishment, were united  in  him.   He had the
personal beautyof his line ;   its kindness for the Church;
* Palgrave'd " Normandy," ii.  773
;    Sisraondi, iv. 65.
 - 70 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             57
its love of splendour—perhaps a dash of the gay vanity
which gHttered in a Norman's character, like a plume
in his helm.   He loved to have his barons about him,
and would  make them presents of  Spanish horses*
—^laying the foundation of that Norman cavalry which
presently became so  important.   His fearlessness by
night and day was proverbial, and won him his name of
Sans-Peur.  'Twas a quality that he required during a
life  of which much was necessarily spent in war.   No
sooner were the fiangailles between him and Emma,
—
sixteen years prior in date to their marriage—known,
than a league was formed against him by Louis, Arnulf,
and Otho, but this  resulted harmlessly, through their
mutual distrust.    Thibault of Chartres invaded him,
and was repulsed from the gates of Rouen to the Nor-
man shout of Diex ale !    He was oblicfed to call in the
Danes to help him against continual Frank hostility,
and coming up the Seine they established an immense
place of safety and booty at Geufosse.   The Bishop of
Chartres came to  appeal to Richard.   Would not he,
good Christian, kindly friend of the Church, save Chris-
tian  men from  these  brawny  pagans,  reeking  of
heathenism, salt-water, and strong ale ?    Richard shrugs
his shoulders.   " Why force  me, then !  "   The bishop
proceeded to mediate betweenthe duke and his enemies,
—chiefly Thibault, called  " the Trickster"—the most
* Roman de Rou.
 - 71 - 
58         THREE HUNDEED YEAES OF
slippery potentate of his time.   Sans-Peur drew off his
Norse sea-dogs,—not without difficulty, for they had got
to like the mild air and plentiful provisions about Geu-
fosse.   They say that the duke displayed astonishing
eloquence  (always  a  Norman gift)  in  talking their
leaders over, one fine  moonlight night, and the trou-
veres long  afterwards  pretended to  give  the  entire
oration.   Some of the vikings settled  under him, to
merge into  Christian  gentlemen by-and-by.   Others
took  to their  dear old  sea  again,  laden with spoil,
made for  Spain, began the ancient game of  church-
pillaging, and came to a bad end, there being a vigorous
hidalgo in command in those parts.
Such was the kind of work which Richard had to do
—work requiring a good head and a strong arm.  He
had, unquestionably, the governing talent of his family.
He served  the  Church,  too,—founding  St.  Ouen  at
Kouen, St. Michael de Momte, and the abbey of Fecamp,
at Avhich he died.   The clergy induced him at last to
marry  " Gunnora"  in projoer Christian fashion (so  at
least the Norman chroniclers  say),  and he ended his
long reign, peaceably,  in  996,—the same year which
witnessed the death of Hugh Capet.
Kichard  Sans-Peur's reign is  of importance in  our
history,  for in  it  we find for the first  time, lords  of
Gournay, whose existence  is  testified  to  by charter.
Eudes and Hugh we know from tradition only ;  but the
 - 72 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             59
age of parchment has come in now, and we have record.
This is always an important epoch in a pedigree ; —not
that  tradition  is   entirely  untrustworthy—to  assert
that,  would be pedantry ;   but because a charter puts
one  in  bodily  contact  (so  to  speak)  with  ancient
persons and times.   It  is  like the remnant of an old
tower —something which speaks about antiquity for
itself.
Our first  knowledge of lords of Gournay in this way
is,  as usual, of an indirect character.   The foundation-
deed of the priory of La Ferte-en-Brai affords it.    That
deed—founding a priory on one of the estates of the
great lordship of Gournay and the Pays de Bray,—was
drawn up by Gautier de la Ferte, who described him-
self as son of Renaud and Alberarda, and added that
he made this  settlement, imperante fratre meo Hu-
gone—" at the command of my brother Hugh."  Gau-
tier,  then, was a younger son of Benaud de Gournay
and Alberarda his wife, and founded this  house with
his  elder  brother's  leave,  while  himself  holding  in
feudal  fashion  a  portion  of  the  family  estates.   A
whole generation is  thus brought before us.   The date
is  fixed  within  certain  limits  by the  names of  the
witnesses,  who were Richard  I.,  Duke of  Normandy
(Sans-Peur) ;       the second  Richard,  his  son ;     Robert,
Archbishop of Rouen;   and a Count Robert.   Now, as
we know that Archbishop Robert acquired that see in
 - 73 - 
60          THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
989,  and that  Sans-Peur  died  in  996,  we have  a
tolerably good notion of the period of the transaction.
The donations were very considerable, and show that
the house was great.*
So  far,  so  good.   Keginald  {Gallic, Eenaud)  and
Alberarda his wife were, we know, flourishing contem-
poraneously with  Sans-Peur  in  Normandy, and had
sons who befriended the Church.  Their rank is proved
by the fact  that two successive  dukes witnessed the
deed by which the younger of these sons founded a
priory, and that they had large possessions with which
to endow it.    All the rest is  conjecture ;    and we have
only imagination to help us to fill  up Renaud's life.
The scanty histories of that age leave much unknown
about kings and princes, and we cannot expect biogra-
phies  of  evei-y  powerful  private  noble.   Yet surely
there  are  some  things which  may be affirmed with
certainty about Renaud de Gournay, though there is so
little  kno"\vn in  detail of his generation, and though a
chronicler would perhaps never have mentioned them,
precisely because they were matters of course.  We ma}^
assume, for instance, that  nobody could  have held a
frontier position like GoURNAY, who was not fit for his
task ;    such being an inevitable natural  law in  early
times.   We may be sure that a lord of Gournay, from
the very seat of his power, fell  as soon as any Norse-
* " Record of the House of Gournay," pp. 26, 27.
 - 74 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             61
man under  the  influence  of  Frankish  civilisation
;
spoke (certainly by Renaud's time) the romance tongue,
for  instance ;     took  heartily  to  the  Church and  to
feudalism ;   and encouraged all  growing efforts towards
a more beautiful  kind of  life—chivalry, architecture,
the culture of  field  and orchard, the planting of  the
vine.   Renaud de Gournay fell just into the transition
time,—the stage in which the Norman gentleman was
developing out of the Norse sea-king,—which makes it
the more difficult  to realise his existence.   One thing
we may be quite certain of—it was an active existence.
In war, his lands would be among the first  overrun ;
the local government of his barony would require con-
stant  care ;     abbot  and priest  would fly  to  him for
counsel one day, for help the next.   The duke's court,
too, had its  claims on a lord of Gournay ;   and many a
time his horse's hoofs would be heard clattering through
the narrow streets  of  old  Rouen, or  over  the  green
sward to the duke's maison de j^lcdsance at Lillebonne.
His domestic life  can only be  dimly fancied :      there
would be plenty of hunting and hawking, begun early,
and wound up with feasting and wine.  Arough, animal
existence it would be, but strongly pious,  for  all  that,
and always tinged with reverence for priest and monk,
—a deep religious fear checking the inborn pride of race
and the habitual and unquestioned position  of com-
mand.  What a training for a man,—a life-long respon-
 - 75 - 
6a         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
sibility of power, and development of self-reliance and
activity !        It must have passed into the very bones of a
family,  and moulded it  into  a  special  t3rpe,  which,
indeed, we can see to have been the result among the
old nobilities of Europe.
Bat we must not  linger,  dreamingly, over Renaud
and Alberarda.  All that we knoio of them, has been
already stated.   Hugh, their eldest son, would flourish,
no doubt,  well  into  the  beginning of the  eleventh
century ;    but of him we have only the name.  Gautier,
the  younger, founded  a junior line,  which  took  the
surname (surnames were just beginning then) of de la
Ferte.   They held their lands (la Fertd, Gaillefontaine,
&c.) from the heads of the house by the tenure called
parage—a  tenure  which  we  shall  have  particular
reasons for explaining as our Family History proceeds.
Gautier was succeeded by Hugues de  la Ferte, who
founded the priory of Sigi ;    and Hugues, by another
Hugues, who became a monk of St.  Ouen at Rouen,
and in whom that branch ended.*  Thereupon, their
seignories  reverted  to  the  family,  according  to  the
tenure  aforesaid.   The la  Fertd  line  claims no par-
ticular  attention;  but what is  really  worth  noticing
is  the  early  religiosity  of  these  Gournays,  which
will  meet  us  in  various  shapes  before  we  have
done.
* " Record of the House of Gournay," pp.  27, 28.
 - 76 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             63
The patient  reader,  long  accustomed  to  consider
genealogy a hopelessly dull subject,  and imposing an
arduous task on us thereby, will  pardon our summino-
up what we have achieved so  far.   We have passed,
in review, Eudes the traditionary (Norse pagan, bap-
tized) ;    Hugh the traditionary (fortifier  of Gournay)
;
Renaud and  Alberarda,  known  by charter  as  con-
temporaries of Eichard Sans Peur ;    Hugh, their heir
;
and Gautier,  their  younger  son,  of  la  Ferte.   We
have,  therefore,  arrived now on firm gi-ound ;   identi-
fied the race  by  positive  evidence ;      and, for conve-
nience' sake,  shall dub the son  of Renaud, Hugh I.,
as  the  earliest  lord  of  Gournay known by charter.
Here, then,  we have  legal  evidence of the  family's
existence  for  a  century  before  the  Conquest—that
remarkable boundary-line of the antiquity of English
nobility.
HughI. was contemporary, no doubt, with Richard II.,
called Richard Le Bon, the son and heir of Sans-Peur
by the Danish Gunnora.  But that is  all  we can say
with tolerable certainty of lii/ni.    The year 997 would
be one that he would remember all  his life ;    for, that
year, the rustici of Normandy raised a revolt against
their masters.   They formed a regular conspiracy, held
meetings, and sent delegates to a kind of rough " par-
liament "  in the woods—poor native-Celtic serfs ! —not
to be spoken of without pity, when we remember their
 - 77 - 
64         THREE HUNDEED YEARS OF
fate.   For the government laid  hold of the  leaders,
lopped off their hands or feet, and sent them back in
that state to their followers, who, immediately (as the
old chronicler says with melancholy naivete,) " ad sua
aratra sunt reversi" returned to their ploughs !  *   One
cannot—thank God for it !—read of such things without
a shudder.  But it is of no use blinking facts.   It was
better that the leaders should suffer, even in this way,
than that the serfs should for a moment triumph, with
the certainty of a terrible chastisement ;    or, supposing
real  success,  with the  certainty  of barbarising  Nor-
mandy, and destroying what civilisation had yet been
achieved.   The Normans were  a  proud  race,  and
governed sternly perhaps on the whole, threatened as
they were on every side by enemies without ;   but they
could govern, and had a gi-eat historic destiny to fulfil.
The chroniclers (and early writers  are very outspoken)
do not defend the rising.   They tell us that the rustici
had determined to  live  " how they pleased,"  by no
means a good arrangement if we look only at their own
interest—and perhaps the real grievance was the wood
and water privileges of  their  chase-lovmg  masters.
f
Sismondi has  a good remark.  He thinks that  the
peasants were now really  improving in position,  and
that the revolt was the expression of their conscious-
* Will, of Jumieges, ap. Duchesne, p. 249,
f Ibid, ubi sup.
 - 78 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             65
ness of new strength.*   Poor Jacques Bonhomme did
not know that this very ghmmer of improvement was
itself  due to three generations  or so of more decent
government than formerly, by these very Northmen;
if they did ride somewhat superciliously past his little
chaumiere on their Spanish horses ;   and though they
did claim exclusive dominion over the forest where his
pigs  fed,  and the streams whence lampreys must be
forthcoming for a fast-day !        The worst of this attempt
at rebellion was, that it bred scorn of the vilain by his
lord,  and tightened the  strong Norman rein.    That
afterwards in England, the roughness of conquest once
over,  the  nobility were not unpopular, is  proved  by
several things,—^not  the least by that  kindly  feeling
towards a " gentleman" (surviving so  many changes
!)
which is still English.
Hugh I.   (assuming that  he  enjoyed  a  tolerable
longevity) would witness several curious developments
of the history of his  Norman countrymen ;    and may
be supposed to have taken his own share in some of
these.   Early  in  the  eleventh  century,  for  instance,
came the  passion  for  pilgrimages,  and the  Norman
chivalry began to pour south.   Pilgrimage, in fact, was
the  Christianity of  adventure,—as  chivalry was the
Christianity of gentlemen,—and both suited a people
like the Normans who were at once religious, romantic,
* Sismondi,  " Histoire des Fraii9ais," 4,  111.
 - 79 - 
66         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
and proud.   So, away went their most ardent youth
while the eleventh century was young—some to Italy,
some to  fight the Saracens in Spain,—forerunners of
the  Norman kingdoms in  Apulia  and Sicily—and
harbingers  of the  Crusades.   The historic  Norman
was  forming  himself  definitely  now—a  personage
strong  but brilliant,  like  polished  oak ;      handsome,
moreover  (often  of  the  fair  Northern type,  still)
;
daring in war ;    a lover of song, and of splendour ;    and
a  leal  son  of  the  Church.   Hitherto,  it  had  been
enough for  him to  defend  his  province—to  check
Brittany,  or  Flanders,  or  France,—while  absorbing
all the civilization he had found,—and yet keeping the
old  rock-foundation of natural vigour which he had
brought from the Baltic.   But now, in the eleventh
century, his mission began to expand before him.  He
began to  be an influence as well  as  a  power ;     he
began to be famous in the South, and to be recognised
more decidedly by an island separated from him by a
strip of sea,—an island in which he had a very wonder-
ful destiny to achieve, without knowing it
!
Was Hugh de Gournay—whom we call  Hugh I.
—
present on the coast when King Ethelred sent a force
to attack Normandy, every man of which was  slain
or beaten—the  very women {femince  i^ugnaiTices),
helping to  brain them with the vectihus [yokes?],  on
which they carried their water-buckets,
—
vectihus hy-
 - 80 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.              67
driaruTii suaruon ?*—It may be so.  Assuredly, it must
have been an interesting day for Hugh, when Emma,
Duke Richard the Second's sister—fair  Emma called
Gemma Normannorwm—left for England as Ethelred's
bride.   This was in the year 1002—a year marked by
the brutal and cowardly Danish massacre in England,
when the Saxon king and his friends killed traitorously
many scores  of the race that they did not find it  easy
to  kill  in  war !          England was fearfully  corrupt  and
degenerate at  that time,  sunk in  all  the  vices,  we
don't say of barbarism merely, but of effete barbarism.
All the noble old ties were loosened, whether of kins-
manship or mastership
;
people sold their nearest and
dearest as slaves  to  foreigners without compunction.f
In battle, somebody was sure to betray his countrymen
among them, and they fled from the Danish invaders
at  the  rate  of  ten  before  one.J   The high  Saxon
aristocracy (for blood was once as  sacred among them
as  among the  Norsemen §)   had waned away before
upstarts stained with crime, such as  Ethelred's friend
Edric, founder of the House of Godwin—a family, to
* "Will, of Jum. (Duchesne, p. 251).
f See the sermon of Lnpus, a Saxon bishop of that age,  printed in
Saxon and Latin in Hickes'  " Thesaurus," Part 2,  p. 98 et scq. ;    and
William of Malmesbury.
J Lupus, itbi sup.
§ Mr.  Kemble thought ("Saxons in England") that nobility was
brought over as an institution by the first  settlers.   The attention to
pedigree in the " Saxon Chronicle " is very noticeable.
F 2
 - 81 - 
68          THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
almost every member of which—and it  was a large
family—some distinct villany can  be brought home.
Emma could scarcely have gone to a worse Court, and
she was neglected when she did go.   But the massacre
of 1002 brought its bloody but wholesome chastisement
in good time.   Down came the iron whip of the Norse-
man, sharp and biting as the frost of his land.   Svend
Forked-Beard, and his son Knut, or Canute, poured
through England by the way of the Humber, seized
London, anddrove Ethelred into Normandy. Thatfeeble
king only returned to England to die (A.D. 1016), and the
English crown, after a few months' gallant struggle on
the part of Edmund Ironside (the last really capable
man of the stock of Cerdic), was seized by Canute,
—
the greatest monarch beyond all question who wore it
between Alfred and William.  We own, frankly, to a
kindness for Knut—the last of the great " barbarians."
There was something vast  about his  kingly faculty,
which yet had a healthy vein of geniality, like running
water, through it,  as witness that old story about his
delight in the singing of the monks of Ely.   And the
author of the "Encomium Emmse" saw him weeping
and beating  his  breast before the altar,  during the
journey which he made to Kome.*
Here, again, we might ask—did Hugh I. live  to see
the  splendid  marriage between this  fair  Emma and
* Encomium Emmse (Duchesne, p. 173).
 - 82 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             69
King Canute in A.D. 1017 ?    That was an important
event for Normandy, and for England too.   Meanwhile,
there were two boys growing up in Normandy,—whom
a lord of Gournay can hardly have missed seeing in
Rouen,—children of Emma by Ethelred—Alfred and
Edward,—the  last  fated  to  have a gxeat  effect  on
Norman and English destinies.   It  is  in  connection
with these princes—especially the last—that our lords
of Gournay first  figure in history.   We have them, as
has been shown, in  charters,  but they now begin to
appear in chronicles.   The way of it was this :
—
We all  know that the great Canute died, and was
buried in the venerable town of Winchester, in the year
of grace -1035.   Two or three families had different de-
grees of pretension to his crown :    Ethelred's children by
Emma; Canute's son, Hardicanute, by Emma;—Canute's
sons (illegitimate, of course), by Alfgive.  But the times
and the state of England were such, that—though right
would go for  something—ready daring, the being on
the spot, and luck, would necessarily go for much more
;
in fact, would decide the situation.   " Why," thought
the young Ethelings, living idly in Normandy, "why
should not we enjoy the crown of our ancestors, now
that the great Danish king—usurper, too,  though he
did marry our mother—is dead ? "   Norman gentlemen,
—^honouring the  princely  lads,  and never disinclined
to  adventures,—as  we may suppose, encouraged the
 - 83 - 
70          THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
generous idea.   Asmall fleet was got ready at Barfleur,
in which Edward sailed ;    another at Wissant, in which
Alfred made a separate expedition.
The leaders of Edward's force were very distinguished
Normans, and amongthemGiffart, Conte de Longueville,
the Lord of Girarville, and Hugh de Gournay*  They
landed  in  Hampshu'e, intending  to  bid  for Emma's
support, Winchester being her head-quarters.   But the
people hung aloof from them, partly (as  William of
Poitou tells us)  " for fear of the Danes,"! whose sym-
pathies were with Canute's son, Harold Harefoot ;  and
they turned back again, after plundering the districts^
of  the recreants who would not  fight  for  their own
prince.   Emma, herself,  gave  them no  countenance
;
for, as Lingard observes, she seems to  have preferred
her Danish to her Saxon children,§ which was perhaps
natural ;     and she was at  this time working in  the
interest of Hardicanute, who held the crown afterwards
in the two years' interval between Harefoot and the
Confessor.  Prince Edward's journey, then, was a failure.
That of his brother Alfred was a failure and somethiusf
worse.   He landed at Dover;   was arrested, and carried
before  Harefoot by the  exertions  of  Earl  Godwin,
* Chroniqne de Normandie (" Hist de la France," Bouquet, vol, 11,
339) ;    Record, p.  37.
f William of Poitou (Duchesne, p. 178).
t Ihid.
§ Lingard's " History of England," 1, 319.
 - 84 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.             71
who dipped  his  hands  in  the blood  of his ancient
sovereigns by sending the "innocent EtheKng" to the
Isle of Ely to die—blinded, and in chains.*   There is
no washing that stain out of the upstart House—raised
by crime—of Edric Streona ;   and it is of a piece with
the doings of other members of it—Brithtric, Wulfnoth,
Swejm and Tosti,  all   chargeable  with  their  crime
a-]3iece.   That such a family could rise  in England is
a sad outward sign of the degeneracy within.
The Hugh de Gournay of Edward's fleet in 1035 can-
not have been Renaud's heir, Hugh I., who would then
have been too aged a man for such a venture, and who
can scarcely  have lived through the reigns  of  Duke
Richard Le Bon (who died 1028), Richard the Third
(ih.  1028),  and the brother of  this last,  viz.,  Robert
le  Liable, or Le Magnifique, whose death happened
the very year of which we have been speaking.   No
;
this  Hugh was the remarkable lord of Goarnay, who
figured in all the great transactions of the Conqueror's
reiga down to the battle of Hastings, and who came,
by the time of that great event, to be known affection-
ately by the trouveres as le viel Huon, or " old Hugh."
This is  his appellation in  the  " Roman de Rou "  of
Master Wace,t in which, through all  the old Norman
* Florence of "Worcester  (Forester's transl.),  p. 141 ;    Hoveden (by
Eiley), 1,  108 ;    Will, of Jum. (Duchesne), p.  247.   Compare Mackin-
tosh's "England," 1,  65, and " Lappenberg," by Thorpe, 2,  220.
j"  Wace (a Jersey man) finished the  " Roman de Ron" in 11G4 ;
—
 - 85 - 
72         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
obsoleteness, a poetic eye and poetic heart are clearly
to be seen to this day.   We cannot get full biographies
(as may once more be repeated) of the nobles of that
generation, but there is ample evidence that this Hugh
—whom we shall describe  as  Hugh II.,  for clearness'
sake—was one of the greatest  of them.  Indeed, we
doubt if there is a family in the English Peerage with
a male descent from a personage so considerable  of
that date,—the Courtenays alone excepted.   There are
descendants of the Montgomeries,  but in the female
line,  for Lord Eglinton is  a Seton.*   There are male
descendants  of  Norman barons, —Greys,  Berkeleys,
Cliffords, St. Johns, Hastingses, Byrons,—but have they
a potentate in the middle of the eleventh century so
definitely ascertained ?    Perhaps a fact like this some-
what excuses, primafacie, the present work.
The earliest mention of Hugh II. is  as witness to a
charter of William's granting church-lands in the time
of  his  father  Duke Robert.f   This  fixes  him—as
Hugo Miles—before the year (1035) of Kobert's death.
Next  comes the  English  expedition,—the  flush  of
adventure of a young and zealous noble,—of which we
have just  heard.   In 1050, we find  him again wit-
died 1184 at Caen.  Was many years a prebendary of Bayeux—tlianks
to Henry the Second.
* Crawford's  " Peerage of Scotland."
t
" Record of the House of Gournay," p. 38.
 - 86 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             73
nessing a charter of Malger, Archbishop of Rouen,*
—
always connected with Church zeal,  be  it  remarked.
The Normans of that age were full of it,—and covered
their fair  land with  spires and towers that glittered
among the woods.   Pious enthusiasm prompted this
—
not unmingled with the love of the beautiful, which it
gratified, and of the fame which it  won.  " A power-
ful  man,"  says  Ordericus  Vitalis,  " thought  himself
ridiculous  (derisione  digmon) if  he did not sustain
priests or monks for God's warfare on his possessions."!
" The Normans,"  says  Florence  of  Worcester,  " are
very ambitious of future renown."^  It is this mixture
of  elements—pious  zeal,  worldly  vanity,  the  solid
and the  showy—all  displayed on a  great scale,  and
with  Norse  vigour  at  the  bottom—which  gives
piquancy to  the  Norman character.   The history  of
the race has yet to be written.
There is  another appearance of " Old Hugh's," as a
friend of the Church—authorising grants to the nun-
nery of  Montevilliers,—of  the date last  mentioned.
§
He had evidently come of age before Duke Robert's
pilgrimage and death, and was now in the prime of
life.    He may have been at  the  meeting at  which
*  " Record of the House of Gournay," p. 38.
t
" Ord. Vital." (Duchesne, p. 460).
J " Florence" (Forester's trans., "p.  142).
§
" Record," p. 38.
 - 87 - 
74         THEEE HUNDEED YEAES OF
Robert  showed his petit hdtard to  the  barons—and
told them that by God's blessing the youngster would
yet grow to be somebody.  Nor can we doubt that he
had his fair  share of the troubles of that  turbulent
period—William's minority ;   when baron rose against
baron,  and vavassor  against vavassor ;    when castles
were besieged and burnt,  and pillage  and massacre
raged  in  the  land.    Amidst such  troubles,  Hugh's
leader—young William—grew up ;    his  boyhood was
full  of  danger and anxiety;  and at  twenty years of
age (a. d. 104^7) he fought a pitched battle (at Val-des-
Dunes, near Caen,) for his ducal crown.   It cannot be
doubted, that with the barons of the Haute Normandie,
came Hugh de Gournay on this occasion, and helped
William to gain the victory.   William fought terribly
that day, and indeed his whole youthful struggle was a
splendid discipline for him.  He was born to a great
place,  and yet had to  rely on himself for the means
of  keeping it —was  sprung  from KoUo,  but would
have lost all  if he had not been worthy of Kollo ;   so
that  he united the  traditions  of  a prince with  the
training  of  an  adventurer ;      and  ripened  into  the
greatest  sovereign  of  the  age.   There are  very few
men to whose individuality the world owes so much.
For his great doings were his own work.  His barons
would not have invaded England under anybody less
personally energetic  and aspiring,—so that the  Con-
 - 88 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             75
quest  was,  more  than most  important  events,  the
triumph of  a leader.   But if  he led in  war,  he led
also in everything else ;     in all  mediaeval culture and
all chivalrous accomplishment.  His development was
complete  and  many-sided,  for  though in  battle  he
fought  like  the  best  of  his  soldiers,  in  peace  he
organised  with  a  true  genius  for  civilisation.    The
warrior is  but one aspect of William, who was a real
kingly friend of Order, and whose memory is as fresh
in the pages of Doomsday as in the gray walls of the
Tower or the black ruins  of Battle Abbey.  Such a
man was worth fighting for—as old Hugh de Gournay
well knew.
Accordingly,  when in  1054,  Henry the  First  of
France invaded Normandy, we find Hugh de Gournay
at his post, and we find moreover that William must
have had a great opinion of that baron.   The occasion
was very serious.   That year William—whose renown
was spreading everywhere—had espoused Matilda of
Flanders,  a  beautiful,  long-descended  lady  of  the
very highest  rank  and consequence,  worthy by her
charms of his  love,  and more than worthy by her
blood of his court.   It was a match at once, of passion
and of ambition—a match to make a man happy as
well  as  great.   The  Church  raised  difficulties   on
account of their relationship, which were made up by
the  foundation of  religious  houses,—a  task  not un-
 - 89 - 
76        THEEE HUNDRED YEARS OF
pleasing to "William, and in conformity with the tastes
of Baldwin's accomplished daughter.   But the French
were  fearfully  envious,
—
ont  eu mainte envie  sur
NortliTYians* says an old chronicler,—and King Henry
promised them that he would destroy Normandy, and
send the Normans back, where they anciently {ancien-
nertient) came from !         Send the Normans back again
to  Scandinavia—after  five  generations ?    Cannot one
fancy the leonine roar of laughter from the de Tonys,
and Mortimers, and Montgomerys, at  hearing of such
a thing ?    However, King Henry made an attempt at
it,—for  he divided his army and sent it  into  Nor-
mandy in two divisions,  of which one entered by the
Beauvoisis in^to the Neufchatel country ;   and the other
(under the king himself) made for Mantes.
William was just the man for  such a  crisis.   He
undertook to look after the king to the south of the
Seine in person;  and he sent off  some of his  best
barons
—
fortissinni viri—to meet the other portion of
the French force.   These warriors, chosen by himself,
were the Count d'Eu, Walter Giffard, Count of Longue-
ville, and Hugh de Gournay,t who, taking with them
the flower of  their followers, fell  upon the enemy at
* " Chronique de  la  Normandie" (Bouquet,  "Historieus de la
France," 11, 340).
t Roman de Rou, 2,  73 ;   Will, of Poitou (Duchesne, p. 187) ;   Chro-
nique de Normandie, tihi sup. ;   William of Malmesbury (Giles' trans.)
p. 264.
 - 90 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.             77
daybreak at  Mortimer-sur-Eaune,  and gave  them a
thorough defeat.   The news of  this  important battle
reached William rapidly, in the neighbourhood of the
king's  camp, and the  Norman poets  add a  curious
incident.   William, they say, sent Rodolf de Toeny to
take up his position, in the stillest  hour of the night,
near where the French lay, and to cry out through the
solemn darkness
—
Franceiz, Franceiz, levez, levez,
Tenez vos veies, trop dorraez,
Allez vos amis enterrer
Ki suut occiz a Mortemer.
A panic, we are told, seized the royal army, and it
broke up before the first glimmer of the dawn.
A man who could be relied on for  such services as
this, like Hugh de Gournay II., must have stood high
in the favour of one Avho knew men and valued them,
like William ;    and no wonder that we find him with
kinsmen and vassals at Hastings, helping his liege lord
in the crowning triumph of his life.    Everything con-
curs to show that he approved William's policy,—for
if he had, from the first, been Edward the Confessor's
friend,  and always the duke's loyal  vassal,  who can
doubt that he favoured whatever sprung out of the
relations between these two ?    What they were, is well
known.  The gentle Edward never lost his  Norman
associations, and England, with its  organisation broken
 - 91 - 
78         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
by decay and by the Danes, became deeply tinged with
Norman influences  during his  reign.   The truth  is,
that the Normans were the more highly civilised people
of the  two,  without having lost  the natural  vigour
which  they had  brought  from  the  Baltic.    They
retained the spirit which the sea had given them, and
absorbed the feudal culture  of  the  continent at  the
same time.   So that when Thierry tells  us that their
domination  over  the  Saxon resembled that  of  the
Turk over the Greek,* he unconsciously helps us to a
far happier and truer form of his illustration.   What
may be justly said is,  that the Norman had over the
Saxon both the superiority  of Turk over Greek and
that of Greek over Turk, the superiority of war, at
the  same time  with  the  superiority  of  refinement.
This is  a sufficient justification  in the great plan of
destiny for their ascendency in  England—an ascend-
ency prepared by natural  influences and by alliance,
before  consummated by the conquering  sword.   But
there is another point of view from which the Conquest
is  not so often regarded, and which those who look on
it  unkindly would do  well  to  ponder.   When we
remember the degeneracy and demoralisation of Eng-
* Thierry's " Conquest," Introduction.   The spirit and eloquence
of Thierry are as unquestionable as his research ;   and the influence of
his book has been great.   But it  is written, we need not say, with
systematic hostility to the Norman name.
 - 92 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             79
land at that time, and try and fancy what would have
followed if the Conquest had not taken place while the
Normans were a separate people from both England
and France, what conclusion dawns upon us ?    Why,
that  England would probably have been conquered,
after Normandy had merged into an essential part of
the  French  system,  and would  have remained  an
island province to this day of France.   Whereas, her
Norman conquerors, as it  was, taught her to hate the
French and to beat them, while still  imbuing her with
whatever of good France had taught themselves ;    and
became a great national aristocracy, the traditions of
which, and the remains of which save her equally from
despotism and mob-government at this hour.
To this  result,  Hugh de Gournay contributed  his
share during the eleventh century.   We do not hear of
him, expressly, again till the Conquest ;    but we have a
perfect right to assume that he did whatever a leading
baron of that generation had to  do.   That he hunted
with his neighbours in the fashion of his day, or drew
bridle at the Abbey of St. Germer now and then, and
chatted with the abbot about forest rights and public
news,  staying, perhaps, to hear a new antiphon by a
brother of the house ;   that he took his wine sometimes
with William himself, at Lillebonne, and complimented
the fair Matilda on her last  piece  of embroidery ;    all
that is a matter of course.   One would like to know if
 - 93 - 
80         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
he was present when WilHam feasted Harold, or  when
the future usurper shuddered after taking the oath (hy-
and-by to be broken) over the holy bones.   We know
that he was a knight;  one of the Norman military
order, who wore sword and silver-plated baldric,  and
carried a bannered lance.   But all the details of his life
have vanished, like the smoke that rose from his ancient
tower, or the roses that bloomed in his Norman 'plai-
saunce.  Wlio his wife was—Frank or Norman—we
cannot tell ;   it  is  but a guess,  that towards 1066 his
hair must have been gettinggrey.   He lived as a baron
of Normandy many a long year ;   fought well at  Mor-
temer, and came to be known as le  vieil  Huon, " old
Hugh."  Such was his career up to the death of Edward,
the Confessor, and it is all of him that we know;  though
so much is as certain as the existence of William, or of
Normandy itself.     Then came the  great  1066,  and
placed his name on a list which will be remembered as
long as England.
Our modern historians have a plan, more remarkable
for its  simplicity than its  justice, of dealing with that
epoch.   This plan consists  of systematically ignoring
what the Norman chroniclers  say, and taking  confi-
dently  the narratives of  everybody else.    Yet, it  is
worth considerincf whether the Norman writers are not
occasionally to  be believed ;   whether Harold was not
 - 94 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             81
really sent to Normandy to offer William the succession
to the crown ;   or whether, at  all  events, Edward the
Confessor did not seriously intend that William should
obtain it.    Not that this affects the question as between
William and Harold, for Harold had no more right to
the crown of England than any other descendent of
south  country ceorls.    Nor,  indeed,  can  we  apply
modern " constitutional"  principles  to  so  remote  a
time.   But it is certainly some justification of William
towards the royal  Saxon line, if the  Confessor (as we
cannot doubt) wished him to be his heir ;   and if—as the
facts show—Edgar Atheling had no chance of obtaining
the prize should William decline  it.    And here comes
in the consideration of Harold's oath—one fact which
at all  events, nobody can dispute.   The excuse in this
case is, that Harold swore under duresse ;  but a very
high-minded man would have preferred to  die.    An
oath is an oath ;   and violent as that age was, perjury
washeld in horrorand awe.  Yet, Harold never hesitated
for a moment about the perjury, but seized the crown
at once, in a way that took William by surprise.    The
Duke, according to  the well-known story, was trying
some bows when the news reached him.  Hewas struck
dumb with rage for the  moment—(he was naturally
passionate)—but presently he rallied.   " By the Splen-
dour of God ! "   From that hour the fate of Harold
was sealed.   The Norman chivalry hung back—they
 - 95 - 
82          THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
were won over ;    ships were wanted—they were begim.
The Pope's benediction was sought—he sent a conse-
crated standard.   The decision, rapidity, resource, suc-
cess  of the  whole  movement  indicate  consummate
capacity,  and stamp William a  true  king.   On the
other  hand, as  Hallam well observes,  " England was
peculiarly destitute of great men," *—a sign, we may
add, invariably,  of a nation's being in  a melancholy
way.  Harold was the best and most capable man of a
bad family—(he had good Danish blood through his
mother)—but  he was no match for the Duke.  His
own brother Tosti was in arms against him, and the
nobility (such as had survived the Danish wars and the
decay of their order) seem to have been tardy in rallying
round him.
In  Normandy all  was zeal and fire.     The great
chivalry  were  everywhere preparing  for  the  highest
achievement of the Normanrace.  The axe rangthrough
their woods, that vessels might be launched ;   the fires
blazed  round  their  castles,  that  weapons might be
forged ;      everywhere  in  Normandy was  heard  the
gathering of horses, everywhere was seen the glitter of
armour and the glow of flags.   The excitement pene-
trated into the recesses  of abbeys and monasteries, and
filled the courtyards of the castles with its  noisy hum.
It was felt  like an atmosphere through the province,
* *' Middle Ages," lOtli edit. ii.  299.
 - 96 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             83
among Bellamonts, Bohiins and Bigods, Mortimers and
Montgomerys,  Tonys  and  Montfichets  and  Grant-
mesnils ;     by Limesays  (destined to  produce  Scottish
Lindsays) in the Pays de Caux;* by Bacons and Bruses
in  Bayeux ;      under the mail of the. Warrennes,  and
beneath  the mantles  of  the  Botelers.   The leaders
of  this  proud  baronage,—friends  and  kinsmen  of
William—such men as  the Count Bobert d'Eu, the
Count of Evreux, Robert Earl of Mortaigne, William
Fitz-Osborne  the  high   steward,  vied  with  each
other  in preparing for  the war.   Some supplied as
many as fifty  ships,  others  twenty or ten,    Matilda
herself  sent to  her  consort  the  vessel  that  was to
bear his banner,  on  the  prow  of which a  youthful
figure  of gold leaned forward, with trumpet in hand,
towards the coast of England ;    and from many parts of
Europe,—from Pcitou, Anjou, Brittany,—young cheva-
liers  flocked  to  the armament, which represented the
valour of the Duke and the prayers of the  Church.
The autumn found  many hundred vessels assembled
at  St.  Valerie,  and thousands •   of warriors  anxiously
watching the wind.
There were three members of the Race of Gournay
present in this memorable invasion :—
f
*  " Lives of the Lindsays," i.  4.
+ Dumouliu's " Normandie," p.  185 (ap.  Eecord) ;    Comp. Eoman
de  Rou ;    Duchesne,  "Script.  Norman.;" Dugdale's  "Baronage,"
L 429.
G 2
 - 97 - 
84         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
Hue de Gournai,
Le Sire de Brai,
Le Seigneur de Gournai.
"Hue," of course,  was their  chief—"Old Hugh;"
the  second  was,  no  doubt,  his  son  (of  whom pre-
sently) ;    the third,  that member of the  family who
founded  the  Somersetshire  branch.  We cannot give
the number of the ships furnished by the House, but
as it  was the feudal  duty of a Lord of Goumay to
find  twelve  knights,*  and as the  "Eoman de Rou"
expressly speaks of the great body of men brought by
Old  Hugh from  his  Pays de  Brai,  we may safely
credit the family with a small squadron.
Nothing is  more remarkable among the details of
the preparations for sailing than the order with which
William managed everything.   To hear  our  popular
declaimers on the subject, one would fancy that the ex-_
pedition wore a buccaneering aspect; that it  was the
tumultuous gathering of a body of robbers.   The truth
is,  that it  was the deliberate military and naval pre-
paration  of  an  immense  body comprising  the  very
flower  of  the most cultivated and accomplished gen-
tlemen in Europe, whose object was to revenge Duke
William  on a  man by  whom they  believed  him
to  have been  betrayed.   So  far  from there  being
anything irregular  or  barbarous in the general man-
*  " Red Book Roll" (Record, part 1,  23.)
 - 98 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             85
agement, the whole busiQess part (involving  commis-
sariatj the shipment of horses and arms, the materials
of engineering, and  other  matters which, even  now,
demand our  best  modern  scientific  apparatus), was
beautifully organized.   William  had  always  been  a
conspicuous  suppressor  of  crime  and  disorder.   He
now gathered  a  great  army together  on  the coast,
which committed no  irregularity, so  that  the flocks
of the country-peoj)le fed in peace*  A storm having
risen at  St. Valerie, he  had the bodies of those who
were lost,  buried quietly,  to  avoid alarms.f  All the
details  indicate a quiet prudence,  forerunner  of the
subsequent good management of an English fleet ;   and
the lamp at  his mast-head burned away through the
night  steadily  as  the  j)oop-lantern  of  a  modern
admiral.^   The Gournays would see  that guiding-star
of  chivalry, as  they  leaned  over  the  shield-adorned
bulwarks of their war-craft,—" Old Hugh," we need
not doubt, longing intensely for the fresh breeze to stir
his  grey hair.    How strange and solemn must have
been the effect  of  the vesper-song  over  the  waters,
while with banners drooping languidly the great feudal
fleet waited for wind !
It came at last, to break the mortal weariness, and
*
"Will, of Poitou (Duchesne, p. 197).   There are worse writers thaa
William of Poitou iu our own day !
f Ibid. p. 198.                         + IMd. uU sup.
 - 99 - 
86              A NORMAN HOUSE.
fill  all  hearts, as it filled  all  sails, with swelling hope.
So intensely had it  been longed for, that when it was
felt  coming, and grass  and wave woke up into  life
under its  cheery breath, men hailed it with shouts of
joy and with clapping of hands*  At this point of his
narrative, William of Poitou becomes madly enthusi-
astic, and insists on comparing his hero to Xerxes and
the Atridse, for which we shall not quarrel with him.
The whole  fleet  now weighed for  England;  Duke
William's vessel  shooting far a-head, so that when a
man looked from his mast in the morning, it was some
time before the sails  of  his followers  rose above the
sea-line.   The first  thing the Duke did,  it  seems, on
anchoring at Pevensey, was to spread out an abundant
prandium, accompanied  by Bacchus  pigmentatus.f
The sea air has a hungry character about it, and there
was hard work before him.
^ Will, of Poitou.                     t Ibid.
 - 100 - 
CHAPTER III.
OUR LAST GLIMPSE OF " OLD HUGH.   HIS SON HUGH
IIL, AND HIS GRANDSON, GERARD, THE CRUSADER.
N tlie   ever-memorable  battle  of  Hastings
wliicli  followed  on William's masterly land-
j
ing-, the Gournays fought amongst their peers,
the  barons  of  Normandy.  The general ar-
ranofement of the fio-ht  is  familiar to all  readers, from
many popular works.  Harold (who had rushed down
from the North, flushed with his victory over Tosti and
the Norsemen) drew up and posted his army well and
skilfully, in  a kind of wedge, on hilly ground, flanked
by woods.   William sent forward his light infantry and
archers first, then his heavy-armed infantry to support
them, keeping under his  own command the  superb
Norman  cavalry,  in  wdiich  his  main  strength  lay.
With glittering helmets, clad in ring-mail, and bearing
bannered lances, forward charged these princely men,
—worthy at  once  of  the  sea-kings  from whom they
 - 101 - 
88         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
came,  and of the  barons of  England, Scotland,  and
Ireland, of whom they were destined to be the sires.
The poets of their race long afterwards loved to dwell
on the details of that great day.   To them we owe the
singular picture of Taillefer's gallant adventure,—how
he rode out in front of the lines, singing of Roland and
Charlemagne,* tossing his sword up and catching it,  till
he fell  amidst his foes, glorious in life, and death, and
memory !      They revelled,  too,  in  descriptions of Wil-
liam's own prowess,—the three horses killed under him
;
his rally of his wavering men, bare-headed, when the
cry was that he had been slain ;   the deep admiration of
his followers, when, after the fight, they gathered round
him, and looked at the dints in his helmet and shield.
In the thick of the list  of his warriors, as it  is  rolled
out in the Norman-French of Wace, occurs the name of
" Old Hugh."
li viel Hiie de Gornai
Ensemble o li sa gent de Brai,
Od la grant gent ke cil meuerent
Mult en ocistrent e tuerent.
It is clear that he did his duty with his kinsmen and
vassals by his side,  that terrible  14th October, 1066
;
and with  that  knowledge we ought perhaps  to  be
content.   All  details  of their  doings are lost,—have
vanished like the echoes of the shouts of "Dieu aide!"
* Roman de Rou.
 - 102 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             89
and " Notre DameI "  which rang through the autumn
air of Sussex, as they closed in mortal straggle with the
foe.   They helped to conquer England, and so to pro-
duce all  that followed from  the  conquest.   In what
particular spot of the battle, fought Burun, or Brus ?
There is  no " correspondent "  to  tell  us ;     and we are
apt to underrate, in an age of copious record, the ages
whose  heroes  have but  scanty  fame.   Nevertheless,
the  work  of  the  ante  Agaoneinnoiia  men has  not
died,  but  subtly  and silently  has  operated  through
history,  and helped to  build  up the  organization  of
society in which we live.
Certain it  is,  that after the battle of Hastings, our
Lord of  Gournay, known as  " Old Hugh," vanishes.
We get the  last  glimpse  of  him,  charging  amidst
Giffards and Montforts, at the head of his men;    and
he disappears out of history like a spectre horseman.
It is  impossible to tell  how far he  co-operated with
William in the work of  his  reign,—whether he was
present at  his  coronation,  or  returned to  Normandy
with him next year to  the  rejoicings,  or  took  part
in  his  great  western and northern  campaigns.  We
have  shown in  our last  chapter  why it  is  probable
that  he was  devoted  to  the regular Norman policy
—the  policy  of  civilization  through  conquest.   Nor,
can  we  doubt,  that  while  he  lived,   he  steadily
laboured in William's cause.   But there  are  reasons
 - 103 - 
90         THREE HUNDEED YEARS OF
for supposing that he did not survive Hastings many
years,  while,  had  he  fallen  in  the  battle,  the  fact
would not have escaped Wace, William of Jumieges,
and other writers  near the time who were perfectly
familiar  with  the  main  events  in  the  story  of  so
distinguished a family.
Tradition,  indeed,  has  its   own  account  of  the
manner of  the  veteran's  death ;     and tradition  is  a
stream  which brings  grains  of  gold  along  with its
mud and pebbles.   The " Histoire MS. de  Gournay
"
asserts  that  Hugh was wounded in  the  " battle  of
Cardiff,"  in 1074, and died in Normandy immediately
afterwards in consequence.*  The " Histoire et  Chro-
nique de Normandie "  (Megissier, E,ouen, 1610,) makes
the same assertion ;    and soTne  thread of reality,  one
would think,  must run through the  narrative.   But
when we try to seize  the thread,  endless  difficulties
present  themselves.   Such a  battle of  " Cardiff"  is
unknown to exact history to begin with ;   and it is  no
easy matter to discover of what name " Cardiff" may
be a blundering representation.   It would be tedious
to make a long discussion on this point.   But we may
mention as a conjecture just plausible enough not to
be ridiculous,  that Hugh fell  in  resisting  the  futile
Danish attempt on the  eastern coasts in  1069.   We
know that there was such an attempt both at Ipswich
* Record of the House of Gournay, p. 40, 41
j   Supplement, p. 731.
 - 104 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             91
and near Norwich that year ;  *  and that one of the
Conqueror's  main services to England was his  saving
her from all  other invasions after his own.f  Such a
cause was worth dying in, for it was the cause of New
England insular  and independent.   This  is  a mere
guess, however, chiefly worth hazarding, because tradi-
tion  usually represents  (vaguely  enough)  something
credible.   And the  eastern counties,  we know, were
the  first  scene  of  the  power of  the  Gournays in
England, as they still are the home of the descendents
and representatives of the house.
Enough, however,  of  the  first  marked  historical
personage  of the  race—long  since  laid  to  rest  in
some of the abbeys  his  family  had befriended, and
lulled  by many a  score  of  masses for  " the  repose
of  his  soul,"  no  doubt,  after  the  manner of  his
time.
Wehave now to deal with his successor (may we not
positively say his son ?)—another Hugh de Gournay, to
be called in our pages for clearness' sake Hugh III., or
Hugh of  Doomsday.  This is  the Hugh de Gournay
whom our regular genealogists—dating from Doomsday,
the first and greatest of blue-hooks—begin with as the
patriarch of the line.J   We have shown that the line
* Carte's  " History of England," i.  406.
t Hallam.
i Diigilale's  Baronage, i.  429 ;   Nicolas'  Peerage, by Courthope, p.
232 ;   Record, p. 46, 7.
 - 105 - 
9^         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
had a history for near two centuries previously ;   and of
how few the  same can be said,  genealogists  know.
But still there is a certain satisfaction in having arrived
at the Doomsday epoch.   Our records begin to be more
ample ;   our details to be more copiovis ;    our knowledge
to be more certain.   Doomsday reveals to us the foun-
dations of the aristocracy of England while the masonry
was still fresh.
Hugh III., we have seen, had fought under his father
at Hastings ;    though, in his case, we are equally unable
to say whether he took part in suppressing the various
rebellions  wdiich  harassed William, and the story of
which forms the chief feature in the later part of his
reign.   That he was active and energetic is proved by
his  making the  remarkable  addition  of  twenty-four
villages to his Norman lordship,—villages situated in
the Beauvoisis, aud thenceforward known as the Con-
quets  Hue de  Gournai.  This acquisition, by which
the Gournays became feudal vassals  of the kings of
France,  will   be  found  useful  in  explaining  their
policy  at  a  later  time.   And it  likewise  helped  to
determine them—as their frontier position did—in the
choice of Normandy for their head-quarters.   Though
tenants in capite in England, they did not hold fiefs
here at all corresponding to the extent of their Norman
lordships, which ranged far and wide over hill and dale,
wood and water, crowned with castles, and pointed with
 - 106 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             93
church spires,  along the north-eastern border of  the
province.
The English fiefs  of Hugh III., at the time of the
General Survey—that is  to say,  at a period ranging
between 1081 and 1086 *—were the three manors of
Fordham, Listow, and Ardley, in the county of Essex.f
They soon became much more considerable, as we shall
see, but these formed the nucleus of the family's subse-
quent power on this side the channel.   It was a modest
beginning ;      for  potentates  like  Hugh Lupus, Earl
Roger (of Montgomery), or Robert Earl of Mortaigne,
held whole counties ;   and the lordshijDs of the Giffards,
Montforts, Mohuns, Malets, &c., are to be reckoned only
in scores or dozens.   But it is curious to compare gene-
rally  the  subsequent  fortunes  of  houses  with  the
appearance they make in Doomsday.  The families of
those great megatheria of the baroDage have all passed
away.  The descendents  of  the  holder  of  a  simple
castle  in  Shropshire became kings of Scotland, under
the famous name of Stuart.   The Russells only figure
there as sub-tenants ;   and the great majority of modern
noble houses do not figure at all
!
Aglimpse of a forgotten state of life—of a forgotten
formation, to  speak geologically—is  furnished us by
the entries  in  William's  great blue-book  about the
* " Recherches sur le Domesday," (Caen, 1842), pp. 13-1.5.
t Domesday Book, ii.  89 ;  Record of the House of Gournay, p. 54.
 - 107 - 
94         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
three manors of the Gournays above mentioned *  We
look through them, as  through  little  windows, at  a
world that has passed away,  Liston was held under
Hugh de Gournay by " Goisfredus Talbot "—another
strange fact  in aristocratic  history.   There were five
hordarii on the manor—a kind of cotters whose exact
legal status puzzles the antiquaries.f   There had been
three servi (downright slaves,  of  whom some 25,000
then existed in England,^) in the Confessor's time, but
there were none now left.    There were three cows with
calves, twenty-two sheep, and eight vasa apium—hives
of bees.   The manor had always  been worth  sixty-
eight  shillings.    Ardley  and  Fordham  were  more
opulent  manors.   They  boasted,  respectively,  their
seven villani—peasantry in  a modified kind of serf-
age ;    and Fordham had its  eleven hordarii and four
servi besides.   Both had wood for  pigs,  and pigs to
feed in  it ;    had meadow-land and mills,  a few cows,
some sixty sheep a-piece, on the average, besides goats
and bees.   It is  a curious little  fact  about Fordham,
that  Rogerus  Pictaviensis—Roger  of  Poitou—had
helped himself to ten acres of the manor
—
sicut hun-
dredum testatur—as  the  hundred  witnesseth,  says
Doomsday.  Roger was,  no  doubt,  a  loose  Poitevin
* Domesday Book, ii.  89 ;  Record of tlie House of Gournaj^, p. 54.
f Ellis on Domesday Book, i.  82.
± Ibid
 - 108 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.              95
fighting-man,  who had  followed  somebody's  banner
across the channel, and was unwilling to go without
his  share  of  the  general  pkmder.   The  sparkling
Thierry, in his " Conquest," has not forgotten to  dwell
on this  aspect  of  affairs,  to  show how the  lowest
adventurers of  different  nations  managed to  acquire
position—nay,  sometimes good position,  in  England.
But though the general fact is  true,  it  will be found
that the very great nobles of the realm for ages after-
wards—the Magna Gharta  barons,  the crusaders,  the
founders of abbeys, were the representatives of gentle-
7)ien of somewhat corresponding dignity in their original
Normandy.
We were unable to give the name of " Old Hugh's"
wife, but in the case of Hugh HI. we are more fortu-
nate.   He married Basilia Flaitel,* daughter of Gerard
Flaitel,  and widow of Raoul de Vace or Gace (com-
monly called  Ute cVetoupe), who was son of  Robert,
Count of  Evreux, and Archbishop of  Eouen, second
son of Duke Richard Sans-Peur.  These Flaitels were
a powerful and distinguished famil}^,  holding an im-
portant fief in the neighbourhood of Gournay.  Hugh's
heir  by Basilia  was Gerard  de  Gournay,  who first
appears on the scene in  10821, witnessing, along with
his  father,  the charter in  which the  conqueror and
* Duchesne ;   Dugdale ;    Record, p. 47.
•f
Record, p. 48.
 - 109 - 
96          THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
Matilda established the nunnery of the Holy Trinity
at Caen.
Our accounts of the public life  of  Hugh III.  are
wofully  scanty.    We have  seen  that  he  fought  at
Hastings,  and that  he added  the  Gonquets to  his
Norman territory.    This  last  achievement  may be
assigned to  1079,  the year of the siege of Gerberoi,
at  which  the  stout  and  gallant  but rakish  little
CoiirtJwse  unhorsed  his  dreaded  sire.     There was
somethincr winning about Robert Courthose, with all
his faults ;   and immediately after this rebellion of his,
we find Hugh de Gournay employed (together with
Roger, Earl of Shrewsbury, Hugh de Grantmesnil, and
Roger de Beaumont,) in reconciling him to his father.*
A very few years passed, and Hugh de Gournay had
retired  from the world and become a monk in  the
Abbey  of  Beef   Perhaps this  termination  of  his
career explains the comparative obscurity of the whole
of it.    All along a strong devotional vein had marked
the race,  and in him it  seems to have over-mastered
the  enterprise which equally characterised that age,
and which had shone conspicuously in his predecessor.
In fact his tastes generally inclined him to the more
peaceful  side  of  feudal  life—to  letters  and to  the
church.   He was the personal friend  of  St.  Anselm
* Ordericus Vitalis.
f Dugdale ;   AVill. of Jumieges,
 - 110 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             97
the learned and excellent Archbishop of  Canterbury.
Anselm (we  may remind  the reader)  had  belonged
to  Bee,  like  Lanfranc,  to  whose see  he succeeded.
Like  Lanfranc, too,  he was of  Italian birth—one of
that class  of  enlightened and refined  ecclesiastics by
the introduction of whom the Conqueror did his best
to  improve  the  condition  of  the  English  Church.
Something of the kind was wanted, if  we may believe
the excellent chronicler, Malmesbury, who tells us that
a Saxon churchman capable of reading and writing was
a kind of prodigy !
Anselm loved Hugh de Gournay—as his letters show.
" Salute "  says he, writing to the monks of Bee, " the
Lord Hugh de Gournay, dUectissiwium nostrum, and
the Lady Basilia,  on my part,  as sweetly as you can
(quanto dulcius potestis),  and comfort them, as  be-
comes them and you, with service and honour."*  The
monks would not be likely to neglect such words from
such  a  man,  even had Hugh been  a less  valuable
accession to their community than he was.   For their
renowned Abbey was one of the chief seats of the piety
and learning of Normandy ;   a burning lamp of warmth
and brilliancy which the world near it  enjoyed, and the
world far away reverenced.   " The monks of Bee," says
Ordericus Vitalis, whose copious narrative of the events
of those times is of the greatest value, " are so devoted
* Anselm, " Epist." quoted in " Record," p. 48.
 - 111 - 
98         THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
to literature, that they seem all to be philosophers.  .       .
The gate of the Abbey stands  for ever open to  all
travellers, and their bread is never refused to him v/ho
asks it for charity's sake."
This was a worthy place in which, having done with
the world and its cares and glories, to while away the
last years of life in good works, meditation, and prayer
;
passing daily out (under the graceful Norman arch) to
garden or orchard, and in again when the mid-day sun
streamed  gloriously  through  the  eastern  window,
making its venerable figures seem to breathe and live !
Hugh gave himself up to it entirely, pleased no doubt
by its  intellectual,  while  soothed  by its  devotional
character ;      and many years  rolled  quietly  over  his
tonsured  head.   He endowed the  Abbey splendidly
with the tithes of many a parish, and brought into the
good work his son Gerard, to whom he made over his
lordships.   Monkish legends long afterwards gi-ew up
and flourished round Hugh's memory ;   and the annals
of  Gournay were enriched  with  a  miraculous  story
relating to the transfer of St. Hildevert's bones to their
final  resting-place within  the limits  of  his  principal
fief*   That the bones of the worthy saint do lie  there
to  this  day, is  certain ;    and the curious may see the
whole mediaeval fable  in  the  Ada Sanctorum.  For
our own parts, we are content to know that Hugh was
*  " Record," p.  50, 51.
 - 112 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             99
deeply pious according to the intense spirit of his age
;
and that when he died,  in  some year which we are
unable to particularise  (probably 1089), he was com-
posed to his  rest in the Abbey Church.  His consort,
the good Basilia, survived him several years.   There is
a letter of St. Anselm's to the pious lady, written after
he became Archbishop of Canterbury, and in a sj)irit
of devout kindliness which gives one a high opinion of
both.
On the  whole,  we have a  right  to  assume that
Hugh III. was not only of the best class of the nobles
of that day, but of what in modern language we call
the most advanced class.  The friend and correspondent
of such a man as Anselm must have had as good culti-
vation as  was then to be obtained ;     some Latin, for
instance,  not  without  many a  glimmer of  classical
poetry ;   some history (overgrown with wild flowers in
the shape of legends—to be sure) ;  traditionary Romance
hterature, too ;    and a great body of Church tradition,
accompanied with sacred  music.   Supposing such to
have been his  attainments, they would still  fall  far
short of the discipline which the mere fact  of being
born a baron insured a man;   the discipline implied in
being a leader in such a vivid and stirring time.   This
of course every Gournay was born to, like his neighbour
the Mortimer, or the Warren.  What seems the most
characteristic  feature  of the family—among families
H 2
 - 113 - 
100        THEEE HUNDRED YEAES OF
whose lives and positions were necessarily very similar
—was their  tendency to  push religious  zeal  to  ex-
tremes;—though modified by that readiness to accept
the nearest culture, which had induced " Old Hugh
"
to try and place the Confessor on the English throne
before  his  time,  and Hugh HI. to  select  the  most
intellectual community of  his province as a place  of
retirement.
Hugh III.  once laid below the heavy slabs of Bee
Church—his banner drooping over him from the roof—
•
his funeral dole, masses, and trental duly provided for
—Gerard de Gournay became chief of the House.  As
the reader knows, we have traces of Gerard's existence
in  1082, when he witnessed one of the  Conqueror's
charters.   He was probably very young then, and he
entered on life  early,  playing  his  part  in  the great
world while his father and mother were sitting tran-
quilly under the shadow of their beloved Abbey.  He
was of a more stirring and ambitious character than
his father, more of the stamp of the earlier men,—
a
common phenomenon in family history.   He acquired
greater estates in England than  his predecessor  had
enjoyed ;—took part in the struggles of the reign of
Rufus ;—fought well in the First Crusade ;—and died
on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem.   Such a career indicates
decided  capacity for  the  active,  rather than  for the
contemplative, side of mediaeval life.
 - 114 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            101
Gerard  de  Gournay made a  great  alliance.    He
married Editha, daughter of William de Warren, Earl
of Surrey,  by Gundreda, a daughter of William the
Conqueror.*  This match, which increased his estates,
also  influenced  his  j)olicy.    Earl Warren,  who was
a  kinsman of the Conqueror's,  had great possessions
bestowed on him, chiefly in Sussex, where he built the
Castle of Lewes, and founded the Priory of St. Pancras.
In 1073, he was Grand Justiciar}''  of England, and in
1074 helped to put down the rebellion—concerted in
wine and extinguished in blood—of Ralph Guader, Earl
of Norfolk.  Many fiefs of that rebel's in Norfolk passed
afterwards from De Warren to his son-in-law, Gerard,
who acted with him in the troublous time of William
Rufus.  Not till  after the death of the Conqueror
—
sorely tried by public and private disturbance—not till
after that morning of September, 1085, when the bell
of St. Mary's at Rouen tolling  the hour of prime broke
on the ear of the dying king, and drew from him his
last  exclamation—"7 commend my soul to  the  Holy
Mary the  "another  of  God!'"—did  Normandy and
England fully know what a true governing hand they
had lost.   Stern and passionate—though with morepiety
and kindness  in  his  heart  than  he sets  credit  for
*  The chroniclers do not mention Gundnda amongWilliam's daugh-
ters,  but there  is  charter evidence that she was one of them.   See
Ellis on Domesday, i.  507.
 - 115 - 
lOa        THEEE HUNDRED YEARS OF
generally—William loved justice  and kept order, and
evil  days followed  after  his  death.   Each of his sons
succeeded  to  something of his  characteristics,  as  to
something of his inheritance ;   but none of them were
worthy of his crown.  Matilda's spoiled prodigal, Court-
hose, excites most personal sympathy and affection
—
gallant, lavish, eloquent—half-hero and half-rake, with
a gleam of genius about him into the bargain.   Hugh
de Gournay had helped Courthose to patch up a recon-
ciliation with his father.  Gerard, however, took Rufus's
side  against him, following the  lead of Earl Warren,
who had headed the Red King's party, and had ob-
tained from him (1087—1089), the earldom of Surrey,
which he lived but a short time to enjoy.
Accordingly, in 1090, when affairs between the bro-
thers had again reached a crisis,  Gerard secured his
fortresses  of  Gournay,  la  Ferte,  Gaillefontaine,  and
others, for  Rufus, and had an important influence in
bringing over some great barons to his  cause.*   The
King's troops occupied his castles.   Anegotiation was
entered upon.  Next year this negotiation resulted in a
treaty, by which Rufus was to recover such of Gerard's
castles as  Duke Robert and the King of France had
taken.   About the same time we have other proofs of
the great weight of the Baron of Gournay in such com-
motions.  When Courthose wanted the aid of Fulke of
* Ord. Vit.   Carte's "History of England," i.  462.
 - 116 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            103
Anjou against the people of Maine, Fulke would only
promise it  on condition that lie  should have the hand
of Beldrade, daughter of Simon de Montfort, and niece
of William, Count of Evreux.  The Count, on his part,
stipulated that in  exchange for his niece, there should
be given him a hatch of the manors of Raoul de Gace.
These he obtained, but with the exce23tion oi Esconclie,
which belonged to Gerard de Gournay, who liked that
residence, and whose power and valour made him an
unsafe man to meddle with*
Partly from the Red King, and partly from the Earl
of Surrey, Gerard acquired great estates  in England.
His family tree took deep root in the county of Norfolk,
where he possessed  the  manors  of Caistor,  Cautley,
Kimbeiiey, Lesingham, Swathing in Hardingham, Bed-
ingham, and Hingham ;   as in Oxfordsliire he possessed
Maple-Durham,  and in  Bucks,  Wendover.   These
together constituted the English Barony of Gournay, of
which Caistor,  in  Norfolk,  was the  caput haronicd.
Caistor had belonged to  Ralph Guader, who held  a
fortalice  there before his  rebellion.   It  stood  on the
sea near Yarmouth, which seems to  have sprung up
under the protection of this lordship.   Thus, in an old
pedigree,  we find  Gerard de  Gournay described  as
" Baro de Yarmouth," and in the church of St. Nicholas
there occur several  shields  bearing  pure  sahle^  the
* Ord. Vit. lib,  8, c.  10.
 - 117 - 
101.         .          THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
ancient traditionary arms of Gournay*   The Lords of
Gournay were, no doubt,  established on the  eastern
coast, to hold it against sea-rovers, just as Hugh Lupus
and Roger de Montgomery looked after the Welsh ;    or
the Earl of Mortaigne after Cornwall ;   or the Romaras,
and their successors the Gaunts, kept Lincoln in order.
The great Norman barons were at once militia, police,
and judges ;     saved England from foes  without ;     and
drilled and administered her at home.  Their castles,
set on high grounds, and defended by lofty keeps, rose
grand and grey, visible over miles of the country which
they defended and controlled.   From these they rode
out at the great festivals  of  Christmas, Easter,  and
Whitsuntide to attend (as proceres, magnates, comites,
&c.) the Royal gatherings,—half feasts, half councils,
—
which were the forerunners of the Parliaments of the
kingdom.   The  English  barony  of  Gournay would
send its  baron to  such ;    but we suspect that Gerard
passed  most  of  his  time  in  Normandy, where  his
position  was greater,  and where, under the reign of
Robert Courthose, there was plenty of occupation for
him.
The truth is, that Robert Courthose could do almost
everything but govern, which he was plainly imfit for
—
in his  own case, as  in that of his subjects.   A stout,
burly little Duke,—overflowing with personal gallantry
*  " Record," p.  78, 79.
 - 118 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            105
and free lively eloquence,—he won plenty of admiration
;
but, as his father predicted on his death-bed, no good
came of his  sovereignty.   Normandy was filled  with
private  brawls—disorderly little  wars—in which crops
were burnt, and castles taken, and misery inflicted on
the poor peasantry, who had nothing to gain whichever
way the feuds ended, and everything to  lose  by their
existence.   Courthose himself began to weary of affairs
in Normandy.  His temperament and talents were of a
nature to fit him for adventure rather than for govern-
ment, and the close  of the eleventh century presented
him with such a prospect of adventure as the daring
spirits  of Europe have never had before or  since, and
will  never have again !          Can we even  fancy, in  the
routine  of modern existence, what it  was to a gallant
Christian  gentleman of that epoch to  hear the  first
murmur of the coming Crusade ?
Well, at least we have one advantage in  the matter
over  our  shrewd, accomplished,  and scejDtical  great-
grandfathers.   We appreciate the Crusades more truly,
and feel them more vividly, than they did.   We should
hardly any of us, now, speak of Peter the Hermit as a
knave and madman.*  Poets have taught us to honour
* Chesterfield's  "Letters to his  Son."  Jortin called  the '^  Gesta
Dei xier Francos"  (the well-known collection  of  chroniclers  of the
Crusades) the GcsLa Diaboli 2^0* Francos j  and the great Gibbon ap-
proved the joke.
 - 119 - 
106        THEEE HUNDRED YEARS OF
the zeal, philosophers to value the results, of those won-
derful movements which precipitated  our ancestors on
the burning shores of Asia, and carried them through
fearful battles and trials  to the Holy Sepulchre.  We
see  that  the  Crusades  were  the  heroic  times  of
Europe,* and surely we may say that the inspiration
was nobler (inasmuch as it was a transcendent move-
ment of religious love), which sent the heroes of a dozen
distant nations to deliver the spot where Christ's body
had rested, from infidels, than that under which the old
Achaean warriors attacked Troy !
Such, at least, is  our belief ;   and we do not hesitate
to say, that to have a clearly-ascertained ancestor in
the First Crusade, is the hlue-vihhon of genealogy.
That the crusading passion  seized  Europe with a
fierceness  to  explain which is  impossible, (and impos-
sible just because man is  an immortal being, with rela-
tions to the unseen world whichwe cannot understand),
has always been one of the best-known facts about the
whole history.   But though the religious depths of the
movement cannot be sounded, we are able to  see the
minor influences which helped to  swell it.    Chivalry,
which had made valour sacred, had ripened the Euro-
pean nature  for  such  deeds.   Pilgrimage had worn,
as by pious feet, the channels in which such a burst of
enthusiasm might flow.    Then, the races  of  EurojDe
*  Guizot,
 - 120 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.            107
were gloriously fresh, the Normans still  carrying, espe-
cially, the Norse heart under their mail ;     and the mere
human and animal delight promised by such a war
must have intoxicated the young.  There was not suf-
ficient literature or science, nor any cumbrous artificial
framework of life  calling  itself  exclusively  " civilisa-
tion," to wear out the energy and repress the imagina-
tion of Europe.   These powers still  slept in the Euro-
pean blood, and helped to  keep it  red and rich.   But
why attempt to dissect  our old  sires, and peep at the
secrets of their being ?    Rather let  us think of them
as noble living warriors, and,—as the Indian puts his
ear to the ground to catch the sound of those far  off
whom he cannot see,—let us listen to their tread as it
shakes the Eastern world, and try and realise to  our-
selves what their actual doings were.
Courthose, we say then, weary of his Norman govern-
ment, and feeling no doubt in some form or other the
crusading fever, resolved to leave for the East in 109G.
Gerard do Gournay had been opposed to him all along,
even up to  that very year;* but his new object was
sacred in Gerard's eyes, touched his  zealous heart, and
rallied him under the Duke's banner.   Courthose had
to pawn his  duchy to  his  brother for  the necessary
funds  for  the  expedition,  and ten  thousand  marks
of silver were raised in the cause by Rufus,—not with-
*  Carte's " History of Eiiglaud," i.  469.
 - 121 - 
108        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
out oppression, we fear*  This done, the gallant band,
—including, besides Courthose and our hero, Odo the
stout and sagacious  Bishop of Bayeux (always of the
Duke's party) ;    Stephen de Blois ;    Eotrou, son of the
Earl of Mortaigne ;    Philip the Clerk, son of Koger de
Montgomery ;   Walter de St. Valerie, two Grantmesnils,
and other eximice strenitudinis milites (" of noble cou-
rage and corresponding valour," says an old writer),
—
left for the South in September with a great following,f
Basilia,  Gerard's mother, was still  alive, and many a
prayer from among the shades of Bee Abbey would rise
for the son who had left  kindred and castles to war in
a distant land under the Holy Cross.
Passing the Alps, the party arrived at Lucca (by the
" Crucifix," at which Eufus used to swear), and found
Pope Urban there, with whom they had a conference.
They next proceeded to  the Norman kingdom, some
thirty years established in  Southern Italy, where they
were hospitably received by Duke Roger, son of Robert
Guiscard.   The southerly winds prevailing in the Medi-
terranean at the time (and we suspect also Courthose's
natural love of good quarters and amusement), induced
them to  quarter in  Calabria.   Bohemond was there,
when they arrived, and that renowned crusader (whose
blue eyes raised a flutter in the  bosom of the Greek
* Malmesbury.
f Ord. Vit.   Malmesbury.
 - 122 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            109
Emperor's daughter) welcomed his fellow Normans to
the new Italian home of the race.   Ordericus mentions
that he scrutinised their badges,—an expression which
shows that heraldry was now growing, though we have
no evidence of its existence as a system so early.   It is
with institutions  and customs as with trees,—we see
the result  of the growth, without seeing the process
of it.
Courthose  and his  band were  thus  some months
behind the other great leaders of the Crusade, for they
did not embark on the Adriatic  till  the  spring,  by
which time Bohemond had joined Godfrey of Bouillon
and other mighty potentates of the Holy War, whose
banners were flapping in the breezes of Asia.   Mean-
while,  the disorderly rabble  which under,  or  rather
with,  Peter  the  Hermit  and  Walter  Sans  Avoir,
poured through Hungary and Bulgaria in advance of
the regular movement, had mostly perished in  misery,
stained  with  many crimes,  and brutalised  by many
follies.*   Never, j^erhaps,  was a greater testimony to
the value of the feudal organisation than the dismal
catastrophe  of  that  rout.   They failed  precisely  for
want of leadership and mastership ;   and when these
appeared on the scene, the whole view brightened.   A
hundred thousand of the chivalry of Europe made such
* Albertus Aquensis tells  us that they wonhippcd a goose  ,    ,    .
a dangerous superstition !
 - 123 - 
110        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
a spectacle of war as Asia had not seen since the days
of Alexander.  The infidels fell  before their swords in
thousands
;
great cities yielded to their siege.   And all
this was done with so many accompanying prodigies of
genius and valour, that we may well look back to the
Crusades, not only as having coerced the onward move-
ment of the Crescent for ever, but as having founded
that  general  supremacy of the  Cross  which is  still
working out its  destiny  on the face of the world at
this day.
In the spring of A.D. 1097, the Duke of Normandy
and his brother crusaders crossed the sea from Brundu-
sium, and landing in Thessaly, proceeded to Constanti-
nople.   Many a feudal flag shone round the beautiful
city, and mixed its  hues with those which adorned the
gardens  of the  Bosphorus.  Here,  like  most of the
crusaders, Bobert Courthose made feudal submission to
the Emperor Alexius, who gave handsome presents to
the more important of his  visitors,  and disguised his
jealousy under the mask of  munificence.  Our party
then moved on, and in June they joined the Christian
army before  Nice.   Nice,  once  famous in  Christian
history,  was now,  with  its  lofty  walls  and seventy
towers,  deep  fosses  and  blue  lakes,  held  against
Christendom by the deadliest and bravest enemies of
its  faith.   We can  only appreciate the deep feelings
which must have played through the breast of Gerard
 - 124 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            Ill
de  Goiirnay,  when the  thousand tents  and the be-
leaguered town broke upon his sight, by remembering
how various they must have been.   There was to be
found the soldier's  honour, there the martyr's crown.
But there, too, were heard the tongues of many Chris-
tian nations, and warriors of the highest feudal type
rode through the camp, and formed a general brother-
hood in the sacred cause.   Tlie whole scenery, again,
was new to  one fresh  from the woods, and from the
marshes haunted by the heron—that North which, as
yet imperfectly cleared  and peopled, was struggling,
half-consciously,  into  a  generous  civilisation.    How
wonderful must everything of the South—the dreamy
heat, the feathery palm, the milder air, the picturesque
people—have  seemed  to  the  young  Norman ;      and
that, when a belief in a myriad of quaint fancies and
superstitions was familiar from  childhood  to  all  the
youth of Europe !        Gerard must have gained, in various
knowledge, a great advantage over his worthy monkish
sire, and over the fighting grandfather of Mortimer and
Hastings.   What Europe could give of culture to the
crusaders, however, they brought with them.  For the
first crusade was not, anymorethan the Normaninvasion,
a disorderly or irregular  expedition.   The Church, in
the persons of its bishops and abbots, held its due place
in that camp before Nice.   The stateliest ladies of the
age came from their " bowers "  and their embroidery-
 - 125 - 
112        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
work to share the fortunes of their husbands and sous.
Ancient writers testify expressly to the good order and
the  good  feehng  towards  each  other,—the  general
decorum, in short,—of that immense band of warriors
of the eleventh century which sallied  daily from its
tents to assault the walls.
The whole story of the siege is  for the historian of
the  Crusades.  Albert  d'Aix*  mentions  Gerard  de
Gournay among the  conspicuous  leaders  of  it ;    and
that he belonged to the Duke of Normandy's division
we have seen already.   Duke Robert's name occurs
honourably in those antique narratives—among anec-
dotes of Godfrey's cutting a heathen in half with one
whistling blow of his fearful Lorraine sword (the body
still sticking to the saddle, " so close the miscreant sat")
—among terrible tales of Franks slain from the bat-
tlements, and dragged up by hooks from the inside—
•
of Turks decapitated wholesale, the heads being flung
into the city—and other instances of the endless hor-
rors of a war  of enthusiasm.  As for our Courthose,
" neither Christian nor Pagan could ever unhorse him,"
Malmesbury says ;  and Gerard could not have combated
under a gallanter man.  The city was yielded, when
the crusaders had brought up boats seven miles over-
land from the sea to launch them on the lake ;   when
the  Sultan  Kilig-Arslan  had come down from the
*  " Gesta Dei per Francos," part 1, p. 205.
 - 126 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            113
mountains to  assist  it,   and had been beaten back in
blood.   Now came the march across the region kno^vn
to  the  ancients  as  the  Burnt  Phrygia,  some remi-
niscences of the terrors of which must have haunted
Gerard's dreams for the rest of his life.    Gasping with
the drought, maddened by the heat and the glare, the
crusaders stumbled on.   Men and women fell  down in
the sand,  rolled,  and expired.   The hawks that  the
knights had brought with them died on their masters'
"WTists, and the dogs at the horses' feet.   After leaving
Nice, the army had divided into two bodies, one of
which was commanded by the  immortal Godfrey of
Bouillon, and the other by Bohemond and Courthose
The latter  was assaulted  by the  Moslems, and only
saved, it  is  said,  by Godfrey's coming up.   Courthose
and his comrades met the enemy with the most fiery
valour, the daring little Duke charging with the white
standard to the cry of " Deus vult
!
"  and (what must
have warmed a Gournay's heart equally)  to the cry of
" d ruioi NoTTYiandie ! "
We have evidence that Gerard completed the cam-
paign with his  leader,  Duke Robert Courthose; that
he was present at Jerusalem, which was stormed (with
such a frenzy of blood and zeal as the world has rarely
witnessed ;   for the crusaders were ankle-deep in blood
when the  Temple was taken,  and knelt  and wept
bitterly  at  the  Sepulchre  the  same day)  in  July,
 - 127 - 
114        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
1099.   The venerable Lady Basilia, his mother, died
in  January that year,  in the veil  of  a nun at  Bee,
not  having lived  to  see  her  boy come home.  He
returned  to  Normandy about the  year  1100,  early
in which Courthose arrived again in Apulia.   Court-
hose married there one of the loveliest women of the
age,  Sibylla  de  Conversano.   The gallant  prodigal
seems to  have expected that  he would pass the re-
mainder of  his  life  in  ease,  plenty,  and jollity—
a
re-action rather frequently remarked in the case of men
who had made his grand campaign ;   but his old ill-luck
pursued him.  The lovely Sibylla died in a few years.
He fought against his brother King Henry as he had
against  his  brother  William,  and  against  a  father
greater than both ;    and the closing years of his long
life were spent in prison in  Cardiff.   So passed away
Gerard de Gournay's leader, one of the most remark-
able and,  on the  whole,  engaging,  of  what may be
called the spoiled great "inen  of our history.   Showy,
gallant,  kindly men, with the  same good qualities,
mixed with the same faults, as those of Courthose, are
not uncommon in the records of Norman families.
Gerard de Gournay died years before the chief,  to
whose flowing talk and jokes he must have listened
many a time—under whose lance, he had seen many
a turban go  down.   We lose  sight  of  him in  the
chronicles  after the  siege  of  Nice ;    though we have
 - 128 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            115
cliarter-eAddenco  that lie  was at  Jerusalem—that he
returned  to  Normandy (probably  in  10.90  or  1100)
—and that  he was alive in  1104.*  The return of a
crusader was an event in those days.   The monks of
his  favorite monastery marched before  him,  singing
" Benedictus qui venit  in nomine DoTyiini ! "   His
red cross was an object of admiration in his district.
His sunburnt face, his  collection of Oriental curiosities
—bezants, shells, holy relics from the sacred city, spoils
of slaughtered infidels,  presents from Greek lords—all
contributed to invest him with an interest scarcely less
vivid than the reverence which he otherwise inspired.
How long Gerard remained at home in the midst of all
this,  cannot now be exactly known.  But we are  in-
formed  by the  writer  who  continued  William  of
Jumi^ges, that he once more set out to the Holy Land,
accompanied by his  wife  Editha, and that he  died
during  the  journey:  " HieTUsaleni petens  in ipso
iiinere 'jnortuus est."   His widow afterwards married
Drugo de Money, the turbulent head of a great family
in the Beauvoisis.
This  second expedition,—or  rather pilgrimage,—of
Gerard's, indicates the strong degree in which he shared
the piety of his House ;    and all that is said of him by
the outspoken and naive old chroniclers (always honest
enough to lash the " wicked barons " of their time), is
*  " Record," p. 68.
I  2
 - 129 - 
116        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OE
much to his honour.  That he should have been on the
side  of  Rufus against  Courthose  has  been  already
attributed to the influence of his father-in-law the Earl
of Warren and Surrey.   But Courthose assuredly was
a bad ruler, and if there had been anything ungenerous
in Gerard's opposition to him, is  it  likely they would
have shared  each  other's  fortune  in  the  Crusade ?
What remains but to dismiss him to his long warrior-
pilgrim's rest, with the symi^athy due to one who left
his bones in a foreign land,
—
And his pure soul unto liis captain, Christ,
Under whose colours he had fought so long.
It  is a curious coincidence that Shakspeare should
have  spoken these  words  of  a  Mowbray who was
descended from Gerard de Gournay's own line.
For, by his high-born consort, Edith de Warren, he
left the following children :
—
1.  Hugh—whom we call Hugh IV.—to be treated of
in his turn, presently.
2.  Adaughter, married to Richard de Talbot.   (The
Talbots held various lands under the Gournays and
Giffards, and rose to a celebrity and station which need
no detailed exposition here.)
3.  Gondr^e, known as  la helle  Gondr^e, married to
Neil or Nigel d'Albini.   Neil was a younger son  oi
Roger d'Albini, by his wife Amicia de Mowbray.  The
elder brother William founded the house of the Earls
 - 130 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            117
of Arundel ;    while Neil himself by Gondree de Goiirnay
became the ancestor of the Mowbrays, Dukes of Nor-
folk,  and so  of him of whom Shakspeare speaks the
words just  qvioted.   Families are to  be estimated in
historical  dignity,  not  only by the men whom they
directly produce, but by those who spring in other lines
from their daughters ;    and the Gournay blood runs in
the veins of some of the greatest nobles in the history
of England.
4.  Walter, a landholder in Suffolk and Normandy in
the time of Stephen.  That he was of the blood of the
Lords of Gournay is  proved by the fact that his son
held a portion of their fief  of Bray by the tenure of
pcwage ;  a tenm-e by which a younger son possessed
a portion of the family property ^^ari conditione with
his elder brother.   But as the severance of land in this
case occurred at the time of the death of Gerard, when
Walter, who profited by it, was alive,  he cannot have
been remoter from him than the degree of son.  Walter
was the proved ancestor of the  Gournays, afterwards
Gurneys, of Swathing and West Barsham in Norfolk,
who in  their turn were the proved ancestors of the
family of Gurney still settled in that county.
 - 131 - 
CHAPTER IV.
GERARDS  SON, HUGH IV.
ERAE.D having died while on his  pilgrimage
to Jerusalem,  the Lady Edith returned to
Normandy,  where  her  younger  children
were.   This was some time not long after
1104, apparently ;   during years when Henry I.—crafty,
clever,  and practical—was  securing  his  crown  by
putting down the  most turbulent of the barons, and
imprisoning  his  brother  Courthose.  The generation
after  the  Conquest  were  a  somewhat  extravagant
and imperious race, and gave Henry (who had more
head  than  Rufus,  and less  heart  than  Courthose),
a  great  deal  of  trouble.   Hugh IV.  we shall  see,
was  not  a  model of  good conduct.   But  he  had
valuable  points ;     and his  position  gave  him  great
temptations ;    and every family produces its  eccentric
members, persons in whom the  qualities  of the race
are not so well mixed or balanced as in  its  best spe-
cimens.  Hitherto the reader must have been struck
 - 132 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            119
with the respectability—to use a very modern word
—
of the Gournays.  They have been gallant, chivalrous,
warlike, but with a marked leaning to the peaceful and
homely virtues.   Witness their friendship with Anselm
—the  most philosophic  of  prelates—" the  best  of
monks "*—who survived  Gerard  only  a  few  years.
Queen Matilda quotes the De Senectute, once, in writing
to Anselm, who was venerated by the ladies  of that
age, and whose canonisation gives a kind of sanctity
to the memory of his friends.   Hugh IV. was hardly,
we fear, up to this high mark.
When the Lady Edith de Gournay returned to Nor-
mandy, she showed before long that she had not left
her heart buried in the pilgiim's grave.   She re-mar-
ried, as we have said, with Drugo or Drue de Money of
the Beauvoisis, a neighbour of the Gournays.  He was
of an overbearing character,—not so bad, of course, as a
man like Robert de Belesme, whose thirty-two castles
were so  many strongholds  of  tyranny,  and who  is
spoken of by the chroniclers with a mixture of awe and
anger,—but disposed to exercise his rights imperiously.
He was quick in seizing the fair lordships of his step-
son, and had the charge of the Honour of Brai while
the boy was being educated at Henry's Court.   Henr}'
acknowledged the claim of blood in  little  Hugh (his
*^" Saint-Anselm de Cantorbery," par M. Clias. de Remusat (1S53).
He meutions Auselm's respect for this family (p. 87).
 - 133 - 
120        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
grand-nephew through Gundreda), and acknowledged
it  handsomely, for he brought him up, says Ordericus
Vitalis, "like a son."   This was a great advantage to
Hugh de Gournay.  The Court of Beauclere had many
attractions ;    it  was at once splendid and intellectual.
The saintly Saxon Queen shed a pure light like that of
a church-taper through it.    The clergy were in favour
there.   Though the king was not very  generous, he
wanted neither prudence nor sense.  He tried to reform
the abuses in the coinage, and those of purveyance, the
last  so  scandalous that it was not uncommon for the
followers of the Court on a journey to waste what they
could not use, and even to wash their horses' hoofs in
the wine.   Hugh would hear all  these things talked
over,  as  he  followed  his  patron  from  London  to
Winchester, or from Winchester to Woodstock, where
his  Majesty  kept  his  menagerie  of  lions,  leopards,
lynxes, and camels—a collection on which he set great
store.   Education in those  days was not an affair of
books, merely, but of personal influence and of expe-
rience.   The young men modelled themselves on their
elders,  to  whom they paid a part of that abundant
reverence which was shown from  inferior to superior
all  through the feudal organisation.   We have proof
that Hugh de Gournay was not indifferent to learning,
in  a curious  letter which we shall  quote  presently.
But as a boy, in  times like those, his chief pleasure
 - 134 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            121
would be in horses and arms.   It would be a great day
for him when be first  mounted hauherk and chausses,
and brandished his oak lance, shod with iron of Poitou.
War was almost the natural state of life then, and was,
indeed, consecrated by the institution of chivalry.
Henry I.  knighted this  Hugh de Gournay, as Or-
dericus Vitalis expressly tells  us.   The ceremony cor-
responded to  our " coming of age "  in modern times,
but was accompanied with circumstances more solemn
than bonfires, marquees in the park, the broaching of
beer-barrels, and a ball.   Through the proudest, through
the most reckless  heart, some sense  of its  sacredness
must have pierced.   There were austere fasts  for the
young novice.   He had to  pass nights in prayer.   He
received the Holy Eucharist with devotion.   He under-
went penance.   He purified  himself in  the symbolic
bath ;   and arrayed himself in garments of the mystical
and significant  white.   These preliminaries  prepared
him for the day of his initiation, the day that he was
to  be  received  into  the  brotherhood  of  Christian
knights.
When the day arrived, our novice carried his sword,
hanging on a scarf round his neck, to the altar of the
church, and presented it to the jDriest for his blessing.
The priest blessed and replaced it.    The novice then
stepped, with bearing at once stately and modest, up
to the Seigneur who was to admit him into the order.
 - 135 - 
122        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
and  presenting  the  sword,  knelt  before  him with
clasped hands.   Some questions put and answered, the
knights gathered round their new young brother, and
clothed him successively with spurs, mail, gloves, and
sword.  And so he rested kneeling before the lord till
he lifted him up, giving him the accolade.   When all
was done, the new knight mounted his horse, and cara-
coled joyously, to air his dignity before the people.   A
proud occasion for him, it was also a glad one for his
retainers.   There was feasting  in chateau and cJtau-
nniere, and minstrel and jongleur and tambourine-girl
made many a sward on the domains of the house ring
with merriment.
One person cannot have taken a very vivid interest
in  the dSut of young Hugh de  Gournay IV.   We
allude  to  his  stepfather,  Drue de  Money, in  whose
hands the control of the youngster's castles had been
all  this while.   Henry reinstated Hugh in them, and
this was a great favour in an age when powerful barons
were not very willing to yield  up advantages in the
name of the law.   Hugh de Gournay ought to  have
been grateful—ought to have put the best interpreta-
tion  on all  that King Henry did after this kindness.
Nevertheless, we find him in open rebellion, while still
in the flower of his youth, in 1118 ;  to the great indig-
nation of  his contemporary, Ordericus Vitalis  of  St.
Evroult, who had a kindly side for a monarch bent on
 - 136 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            123
maintaining order  and protecting the Cliurch,  " In-
gratitude,"—this is the stain which the good chronicler
attaches to the old  shield  (piM*e sable,  according to
tradition) of Hugh IV.
Unfortunately, it is too late now, seeing that he has
been near seven hundred years in his  grave, to ask
Hugh himself for an explanation of his conduct.   The
facts were these.   Once in possession of his ancestral
estates of Gournay and Brai, bordering, as we know, on
the  French king's  territory,  Hugh fell  into  all  the
associations—Norman  and French—of  his  position.
There were always Norman nobles at variance with the
Crown—especially as  Henry had triumphed over his
brother and his  party ;    and a Lord of Gournay had,
besides,  special  relations  (alluded  to  before)  to  the
French king.   Hugh IV., in addition to such influences,
may have quarrelled with Henry (who was certainly
disposed to  be jealous  of  his  nobility*)  during the
interval between his accession to  his estates and the
year 1118.  We cannot say.   In that year, however,
when Amauri de Montfort, son of Simon de Montfort,
by Agnes, sister  of  William, Count of  Evreux, just
dead,  claimed that uncle's  lordshij)  from Henry, and
failing to get it  rebelled at  once, Hugh de Gournay
rebelled along with him.  Nearly the whole of France
espoused the cause ;    and young William, son of Court-
* Carte, i.  493.
 - 137 - 
124         THREE HUNDEED YEARS OF
hose, and heir of the Conqueror, was set up against the
King of England.  Henry had a difficult game to play-
in  these  Norman troubles.    He had to  manoeuvre
France, Flanders, Anjou, and Maine against each other;
and to the necessities of this stormy diplomacy we owe
the marriage between his daughter Maud and the son
of Fulke of Anjou, which brought the Plantagenets to
the English throne.
Hugh's first  rebellion was a failure,  and led  to a
negotiation.   The wary king managed to seize Hugh at
Rouen, and compelled him to come to terms.   Then it
was that the marriage between Gundreda de Gournay
and Neil d'Albini was arranged.   Neil, or Nigel (who
was a widower), had fought with Henry against Court-
hose, on that unlucky prince's last field of Tinchebray,
in 1106.   It was natural that the king, always shrewd,
should wish to bind his supporters together—and what
firmer links than the tresses of la belle Gondr^e ?    The
espousals took place in the summer of 1119, with much
revelry and splendour, no doubt, for there was some-
thing fierce in the pleasures as in the battles of those
old barons.   But neither the summer nor the wedding
of  his sister brought any charm to Hugh's mutinous
heart.   That very day he broke out again, seized with
his  friends the  Castle of Plessis,  and murdered Ber-
trand  the governor, placing his kinsman Hugh Talbot,
 - 138 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            125
in charge instead, with a garrison.*   Neither time nor
the church had yet tamed the oki heathenish sea-roving
blood in Hugh IV. ;      and it  was at the price of out-
breaks like this, and characters like these, that Europe
acquired the government necessary to its  development.
When all character is  rubbed out, and all individuality
smoothed down, why, perhaps we shall find  the new
extreme worse than the old !
So passed the month of  June, 1119, the roses  of
which smell so faint across all the centuries.   The king-
recovered the Castle of Plessis.   He concluded, too, his
arrangements, pecuniary and matrimonial, with Fulke
of Anjou ;    and, freed from the troubles which employed
his  soldiers  on that  side,  marched against  Louis of
France, and defeated him and Courthose's son William,
at Noyou.  Beauclerc was not warlike, but he could
fight when required, and on this day he fought well.
Such a success was a bad omen for our rebel baron.
But Hugh was obstinate.   He swept the country clean
to stock his  castles of Gournay, la Ferte, and Gaille-
fontaine, and held out against all comers.   The " baron
in rebellion " was a familiar picture in those days, and
what the old monkish chronicles tells us of Hugh may
help us to conceive what it  was like.   All the loose
disorderly younger sons gathered at his castles, with the
general idea of living riotously upon plunder—Fecamps,
* Ord. Vit.
 - 139 - 
126        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
Cressis,  Vasceuils, and so  forth.   In the long winter
nights  the clatter  of their horses was heard in  the
roads, and woe to him whose door could not keep his
house, or whose arm could not keep his head !         These
mail-clad men carried off knight or farmer, and kept
him in the dungeon till  his ransom was forthcoming.
Such were the proceedings of Hugh de Gournay in the
winter of 1119—20.   He was so formidable, as to have
eighteen castellans with him, to ravage the Talou and
Pays de Caux, and to threaten Rouen itself   There
can be no doubt, also, that he was en rapport with the
French Court.   King Henry, after pitting William de
Romara  (afterwards  Earl  of  Lincoln)  against  him,
marched in person into the Pays de Brai, and laid it
waste with fire and sword.
One would think that after such a struggle as this a
reconciliation  was almost impossible.   But the rapid
changes  are  what chiefly  strike  us in  the  personal
politics of feudal life.    In 1120, Hugh had submitted,
and was received again into the "king's peace."   Nor-
mandywas all reduced to tranquillity that year.  Every-
thing promised well for the sagacious king, when the
fatal  Blanche Hef struck  on  the  rocks,   and  his
two sons, daughter, and niece perished in  the waves.
Hugh de  Gournay  must  often  have  played  with
the  princes,  and  the  shock  of  horror  with  which
the  news  was  everywhere  received  would  reach
 - 140 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.            137
him, and set  liim  thinking  again  after  his  lawless
campaigns.
In 1121, we find Hugh and his stepfather at Henry's
Court, apparently in full amity with the king and with
each  other,  witnessing a charter *  in  company with
the king and the young Queen Adelicia of Louvaine,
whom he had married (" for her beauty," says Henry of
Huntingdon) that year.
Hugh himself took a first wife much about the time
that his Majesty took a second.   We cannot but con-
nect his  marriage with his  rebellion, which otherwise
must remain a purposeless disturbance.   The truth is,
that he married into the French interest, for his spouse
was Beatrix, daughter of Hugh le Grand, Count of Ver-
maudois, second son of Henry of France.f   These Ver-
mandois, who had thus merged into  the royal French
line, were themselves descended from Charlemagne, and
belonged to  a race  of nobles long since absorbed into
the kingly houses of Europe.   Beatrix's father had died
from wounds received in the First Crusade, at Tarsus
;
one of her sisters  (Elizabeth)  married the second Earl
of Warren and Surrey, thus reviving the tie  between
that  family and the Gournays.   Alliances like these
stamp the Lords of Gournay as holding a kind of quasi
princely position in Haute Normandie, and explain the
•  Chart, ap. "Kecord," note, p.  86, 7.
t Contin. of Jumieges.
 - 141 - 
128        THREE HUNDEED YEARS OF
sort  of footinof  on which Husfh IV. must have dealt
with Beauclerc in arranging their  reconciliation.   The
key to this baron's politics  is  afforded by the feudal
pride of a position which tempted him to choose as he
pleased between the friendship of the English and the
French kings.   And no Norman was yet an English-
man, in spite of the green manors which he might hold
in Norfolk, Essex, or Bucks ;    he came and went between
Normandy and England according to his taste or con-
venience ;    he spoke Norman-French from the cradle
;
and was too apt to despise the conquered race, whose
aristocracy  (what was left  of  it)  were now sub-ten-
ants for the most part,  and rarely rose in  State  or
Church.
In 1128, Hugh appears in the best capacity in which
we have yet seen him, founding or confirming the foun-
dation of the Abbey of Beaubec.  Already he had con-
firmed the family donations to Bee, so cherished by his
house.   Perhaps it was remorse for the cruelties of his
rebellion which, helped by an ecclesiastical  suggestion
or two, made him anxious to  atone for  the winter of
1119-20.   The Church was  always  ready with good
advice of the kind,  and men passed  with  startling
rapidity from festivity to piety, from blood to tears, in
so wild, primitive, and natural a time.   Beaubec took
its rise in the thick umbrageous woods of the forest of
Bray,  between two  rivulets,  where a  little   hamlet
 - 142 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.            129
already stood.   One William de Fecamp, a vassal of the
Gournays, has the credit of taking the first steps in the
matter.   But Hugh de Gournay followed  it  liberall}^
up, and a copy of one of his charters still exists to show
us in its  quaint semi-barbarous Latin what he did for
the Cistercian monks at the foundation.   They were to
have the terram et nenius (land and wood) in which the
abbey was situated  with " every dominion round the
same wood, in lands, meadows, and waters, roads and
paths," from the ford at  Sommery to  the fish-pond of
Mauquenchy, and from the lands of Sommery to the
water of Roobeck.   They were to have wood wherever
they liked,  and of whatever kind they liked,  in  the
Forest of Bray, a waggon-load at a time, with pastu-
rage and water,  and brushwood for firing,  and many
gifts  of  land  besides, which  it  would be tedious to
enumerate.  "All  these  we will  guarantee you
—
ga-
rantizahhnus"  says  Hugh's  charter,  in  an  anti-
Ciceronian manner.*
Hugh IV.  now remained faithful  to  King Henry,
who, in  1134, joined him with his  old  opponent Wil-
liam de Romaraas a commanderof the frontiers.   Next
year the king died while over in  Normandy settling  a
dispute with the Count of Anjou ;   killed, says the story,
by a surfeit of lampreys, a fish  so popular in old times
that we frequently find presents  of them made to our
* See it in the original, Record, p.  97, sqq.
 - 143 - 
130        THREE HUNDEED YEARS OF
kings by barons suing for a favour*   Henry the First
raised  one  or  two families  to  the  baronage  (novi
homines, in Hugh de Gournay's eyes, but now among
our highest aristocracy),  the Clintons, Spencers (from
his Despencer or steward), Hastingses, and j)erhaps the
Herberts,
During Stephen's reign, with its wretched strife  and
turbulence, Hugh was not more consistent than he had
been in Beauclerc's, unless, indeed, we say that he was
consistent  in acting for his own interests as a qiiasi-
independent potentate on the frontiers  of Normandy.
When Stephen, who had plenty of vigour and some
chivalry, sailed across the Channel in the Lent of 1137,
to come to terms with the French king and with the
Count of Anjou, whose wife's  crown he had usurped,
Hugh was against him, and was taken prisoner at Pon-
taudemar.  His kinsman, the third Earl of Surrey, was
on the same side—the natural one for the family under
the circumstances—and joined him in making a truce
with  Stephen, from whom the Count of Anjou also
agreed at that time to take a pension of five thousand
marks.  The truce became an alliance of some kind or
other, for Hugh is  soon found acting with the King's
son,  Eustace
;
yet, as  if it  had been his intention to
puzzle posterity,  he turned again, and  gave up his
castles  to the Count, then wheeled round once more,
* Madox's "Hist, of the Exchequer," passm.
 - 144 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            131
and is discovered witnessing a charter of Stephen's at
the  blockade of Shrewsbury*  Tlie truth is, that re-
peated  usurpations  had confounded for  the  time all
clear notions of fealty, while the intoxication  of con-
quest had not been without its  bad effects on the Nor-
man character.f
The date of this blockade was 1138, the year of the
famous Battle of the Standard,  William Fitzalan held
the town (one of those Shropshire Fitzalans from whom
the  Royal house of Stuart descended),  and Stephen
carried it  by storm, hanging several of the prisoners.:!:
What shows that it was our Hugh de Gournay who
witnessed the charter above mentioned, is that another
of the witnesses was Wilham de Albini, elder brother of
Nigel, husband of la  belle  Gondree.   This William's
son married Adeliza, widow of Henry the  First, who
held Arundel Castle in dower; and hence the Albinis
were so  constantly  called  Earls  of  Aiamdel,  though
strictly and legally they seem rather to have been Earls
of Sussex.   The territorial character of ancient dig-
* Charter, quoted in Record, p. 110.
f The Norman pride, which had its  bad—as vrell  as its good—con-
sequences, is vividly depicted in the speech which. Henry of Hunting-
don puts into the mouth of Ralph, Bishop of Durham, before the Battle
of the Standard—" Brave nobles of England, Normans by birth .    .    .    .
no one ever withstood you with success.   Gallant France fell  beneath
your arms ;    fertile England yoii subdued ;   rich Apulia flourished again
under your auspices," &c.   (Forester's " Hunt")
X Hunt.
E 2
 - 145 - 
132        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
nities is well worthy of notice, for every title was afact
before it became ft form.
We hear nothing  else  of  Hugh during the  wars
between Stephen and the high-spirited  and haughty
Empress Maud.  His kinsman, Earl Warren, was in
Stephen's army fighting at  the battle of Lincoln when
the King was taken prisoner (1141), while his nephew,
Geoffrey  Talbot,   distinguished  himself  under  the
banner of the Empress.  Hugh remained faithful  to
Stephen, however, for he obtained from him the manors
of Wendover in  Buckinghamshire, and Houghton in
Bedfordshire,*—a respectable  addition to  his English
barony.
In a few years the eloquent voice of St. Bernard had
roused  again  the  crusading  passion  in  Europe.  At
Whitsuntide, 1147, Hugh de Gournayassumed the Cross,
and accompanied Louis le  Jeune and his queen to the
Holy Land.  The Count of  Vermandois,  brother  to
Hugh's first  wife,  Beatrix, and himself married to  a
sister of the Queen of France, remained at home as one
of the Council  of Regency.   Hugh had before  this
married a second time, into the great house of Coucy,
renowned  chiefs  in  war,  and renowned patrons  of
song.   A son of this  marriage—another Hugh, who
continued the line—is  mentioned in a  curious  docu-
ment connected with this  Crusade.   It  is  an Act of
* Plac. Rolls, tcm27. John, ap. "Record," p. 174.
 - 146 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            133
Mortgage, by wliicli  Hugh IV. raises  sixty-five pounds
on the feudal due of a liundred measures of wine, pay-
able to him annually by the Bishop of Beauvais.*  A
quaint little bit of prose this, in the middle of a jDrepa-
ration for the Holy Land, but welcome for  its  homeli-
ness and reality.   The feudal life was not all  plumes
and poetry, trumpet and tourney, and loses something
by being contemplated exclusively from that point of
view.   The Crusaders  especially  had  solid  cash  to
raise,  real  sacrifices  to  make of  a prosaic  character,
before what ive  call  the romantic  part  of  the expe-
dition began,—before the}^ j)lanted their little  crosses
in  Lebanon to  kneel  before,  or  gathered  shells  on
the beach near Acre.f  The costliness of the Crusades,
as is well known, embarrassed or ruined many a noble
house.
Hugh was the second Crusader of his famil}^, but he
had not a leader like Courthose, and the army in which
he served never won such glory as that in which Gerard
de  Gournay  stormed  Nice,  traversed  Phrygia,  and
avenged the degradation of the Holy City.   Yet, they
did not want a cause, for the Infidels were everywhere
pressing the Christians to extremities.   Nor did they
want power, for  there were immense armies under the
* De la  Maine's  " Hist,  de  Gournay," i.    188 ;     ap.  Record, p.
111.
f So originated tlie cross JicMe, and the escallops, of heraldry.
 - 147 - 
181<           THEEE HUNDRED YEAES OF
banners of Conrad of Germany, Lewis of France, and
the endless wave of chivalry rolling southwards behind
them.  All, however, went ill.     The Emperor of Con-
stantinople played them false, and they were overtaken
by famine—naturally followed by losses  in war.   Con-
rad and Lewis took refuge at Antioch, and afterwards
at  Jerusalem.   The King of  France  then attacked
Damascus,  with  the  Knights  Templars  and  other
troops at his back ;   but this, too, ended badly, and he
returned home.   Hugh de Gournay, who was of his
Majesty's party, would naturally accompany his retreat,
and would make a less glorious entry into his town and
tower of  Gournay than his  gallant  and triumphant
father had, some fifty years before.   We hoj)e that it
was partly  the  want of " success "  (which went for
something in the twelfth century, as now) that made
our countryman Henry of Huntingdon give the bad
account  he does  of  these  crusaders  of  the  Second
Crusade.   " The same year,"  says  he, " the armies of
the Emperor of Germany and the King of France were
annihilated, though they were led by illustrious com-
manders,  and  had commenced their  march in  the
proudest confidence.   But Goddespised them, and their
incontinence came up before Him ;   for they abandoned
themselves to .     .    ,    adulteries  hateful to  God, and to
robbery and eveiy sort  of wickedness."*  Great and
* Forester's " Huntingdon," p. 286.
 - 148 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.            135
glorious  as  the Crusades were, tliey  had their ugly
aspects,  and even their  ludicrous  ones,—both  freely
handled by the men of that generation, who had much
more of our criticism,  cleverness,  and common sense
than we are apt to fancy.   One of the Grantmesnils,
having  slid  down a  rope  to  escaj)e  from  Antioch,
was nicknamed the "Rope-dancer;" and all steel-clad
Europe gossipped about the French Queen Eleanor's
flirtations  with dark-eyed Paynim princes.   What a
theme for the wood-fires of the Castle of Gournay in
the  winter-nights !           It  was  the  century  of  Walter
Mapes.
Having made, as we fear, but a poor hand of esta-
blishing the Cross in Syria, Hugh de Gournay cannot,
nevertheless, be charged with neglecting it  at  home.
In conjunction with his second wife Millicent or Meli-
sandra de Coucy, he established a nunnery near Gaille-
fontaine, which, being afterwards moved, became rather
famous under the  name of  " Clair  Ruissel."    The
church was dedicated to the Blessed Virgin ;    and the
whole  foundation  was  supported  (among  other  re-
sources)  by certain  charges on the baron's  English
lordships  of  Maple-Durham  and  Kimberley.   His
double position  as  a Norman and an English baron
is emphatically expressed in the commencement of one
of  the  charters—still   extant  at  Rouen—" Hugo de
Govnaio omnibus hominibus suis tarn Francis quam
 - 149 - 
136        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
Anglis salutem !"*  But this was not his only service
to the cause.   He improved and enriched the Church
of  St.  Hildevert  in  his  town of  Gournay,  and the
beautiful arches on its west front are still fine specimens
of the Early-Pointed style which began to prevail in his
time.   The Church of Notre Dame in Gournay was
also  attributed to him;   and the tomb of himself and
Melisandra  was shown there,  till  the  black  sea  of
Revolution rolled over the relics of a distant past.
The year 1151 found King Louis and Stephen's son
Eustace (who had married his sister Constance) at war
in  Normandy  with  Henry Plantagenet—afterwards
Henry the  Second.   Hugh IV. adhered  faithfully to
the French interest and Stephen's, and his castles were
fortified in their cause.   Henry laid siege to La Ferte,
carried it and set it on fire, and a single tower on a hill
alone escaped the wreck.  There had been  a  priory
there, established by his collateral ancestor Gautier de
la Ferte, which, after this catastrophe, he transferred to
St. Laurent-en-Lions.f
And now (except during an interval or tAvo, when,
by the light of a charter, we get a glimpse of him as
still  livings) we lose  sight of Hugh de Gournay for
more than twenty years.   An enemy to  Henry the
* Printed entire  in Record,  p. 119,  with others from the Rouen
archives.
t Dugdale.   "Hist, des Gaules," vol. xiii. p. 290.
X Supplement to Record, pp. 736, 7.
 - 150 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.            Jo7
Second when that prince was striving for his  crown,
he was not likely to be distinguished by his favour
afterwards ;    while his position as a Norman baron and
a friend of the Court of France raised him beyond the
level of a man easy to ruin.   Henry, on his accession to
the throne, seized into his hands the manors of Wen-
dover and Houghton, given to Hugh by Stephen,* and
made a grant of them to a stranger, with whose pos-
terity we shall find the Gournays afterwards disputing
the property.   So, Hugh seems to have stood aloof in a
dignified and perhaps sullen independence, and to have
gi'ov/n  old in the quiet of his castles.   We know not
what his  views were on the great  question between
Henry and Becket.  He outlived two whole generations,
and saw great  changes  in his  order.   Some of the
Conqueror's  most powerful  families—Mortaigne  and
Chester  for  instance—ended  in  his  lifetime.    The
Clintons, we know, had risen  during his youth ;    and
the renowned names of Clifford and Courtenay made
their first appearance in our English aristocracy, in his
old age.   He must have been gi'ey when he saw war
for the last  time.   It was in 1173, when young Prince
Henry, rising  against his  father, stormed and burned
Gournay Castle, taking prisoner Hugh, his  son,  and
more than a hundred and sixty persons.f   This was
* ripe Roll, ap.  "Record," p. 233.
t "Hist, des Gaules,"xiii. p. 191.  Diigdale's "Baronage," 2ibi sup.
 - 151 - 
13S        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
the last great trial of his long and various life.  Prompted
by that religious  enthusiasm of which all  the family
seem to have had more or less, he set off again for the
Holy Land, and breathed his last  there, about the year
1180.   He must have been on any computation more
than  eighty  years  of  age  (for  authentic  documents
make a mistake of identity impossible) when he under-
took  this  journey.   His longevity—judging from the
case of his great-grandfather " Old Hugh"—was pro-
bably hereditary.   But he must also  have  had the
great physical organisation proper to a real aristocracy,
and which, indeed, is  the material bcisis  on which its
superiority has always rested.
When placing  Hugh IV.  in  the  Gournay family
group, we are bound to say that he cannot be esteemed
amongst the best men of  his  line.   His youth was
turbulent and irregular ;   and it  is  not easy to acquit
him of ingratitude towards  Beauclerc ;     or  of an in-
terested  inconsistency  under  Stephen.  He did  not
want the  vigour  and enterprise  v/hich  were  almost
matters of course in such races ;   but he never acquired
the dignified repute of the old man who headed the
family and retainers  at  Hastings ;    nor displayed the
conspicuous  gallantry of him who, fighting alongside
Courthose  under the  white  standard,  scattered  the
Saracen hordes.   All one can say is, that he somewhat
atoned for his youth byhis benefactions to the Church
;
 - 152 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.            139
that  his  great alliances  show that he knew how to
maintain  the status  of his  house in  the eyes of its
feudal  rivals ;    and that death found him a  very old
and frail man painfidly making his way to the distant
spot where his Redeemer's body had lain.
There is, however, something more to say after all
for Hugh IV.  A curious proof exists that he had one
characteristic, at all  events, of the family beloved by
Anselm,—a respect for letters.   Here is  an epistle to
him from Baron de Clermont, the same, it is  supposed,
who was Constable of France about 1170.   We trans-
late from a MS. " Histoire des Seigneurs de Gournay,"
itself  indebted for  this  document to  the  celebrated
genealogist Duchesne.
" Raoul by the Grace of God, Count of Clermont,
to Hugh Lord of Gournay, to whom he wishes that he
may choose with the simplicity of the dove that which
is better.  Knowingthat the ardour of friendship renders
almost possible things even impossible, that the advan-
tage one ought to draw from the possibility of things
is  to execute what is  demanded one from the others,
I have not hesitated to address to you this letter, to
you,  and your ecclesiastics.   I  have at  Clermont, a
Master who has taught there during this year, who is
still actually employed in conducting the public schools.
This person excited by the regulation of your town,
and by the desire of meriting your friendship, wishes
 - 153 - 
140        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
me to obtain for him the object of his desires.   He is
well versed in the knowledge of  authors, and in the
science  of  philosophy,  very accomplished as  to  the
manner of  teaching grammar and the  different arts,
sufficiently instructed in the Holy Scriptures, and, what
is the principal thing, well-regulated conduct.   Where-
fore,  I beg of  you to accord to him, next  year, the
management and instruction of yovir town, all obstacles
being removed,—and this  is  what I  ask,—at the in-
stance of you and your clergy."*
Surely, this  singular and valuable letter says a good
deal for Hugh IV.   That some schools akeady existed
at Gournay is proved from its whole tone—indeed, from
its  being written at  all ;    and Raoul shows that  the
reputation of his friend in  such matters had reached
the ears of the proUg^on whose behalf he is writing.
These Lords of Gournay, then, were not the illiterate
and ferocious warriors that some people assume all the
old  barons to  have been,  but were wise  enough to
respect knowledge, and honest enough to propagate it.
Let  Hugh IV.,  as  an offset  to  his  faults,  have the
credit of representing this tendency of the family iu
the twelfth century.
One word now on his immediate relations, and we
leave him to rest with his  forefathers in the pleasant
Norman land.
* Supplement to Record, p. 747, S.
 - 154 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            141
By his second wife, Melisandra de Coucy, Hugh de
Gournay, whom we call the Fourth, had issue
—
1.  Gerard, who died before his father, we believe in
1151.
2.  Hugh V., his successor, whom we treat  of in the
next chapter.
3.  GUNNORA, married  to  Nicholas  de  Stuteville.
This lady received in  marriage  from her father the
manors of Bedingham  and Kimberley,  in  Norfolk.*
The  Stutevilles,  de Stotevilles,  or d'Etoutevilles long
flourished  both in  France and England ;     the  French
line ending in an heiress, who married, in 1534, Francis
de Bourbon, a Prince of the Blood.   Eleven Stutevilles
of the senior branch were barons of England succes-
sively, from the Conquest to 1266 ;    and five of a junior
one flourished between the days of the  first  Richard
and the first  Edward.f  Kimberley, given en dot to
Gunnora de Stuteville nee Gournay, passed, after several
generations, to the Fastolfs, and from them to the pre-
sent noble family of Wodehouse of Kimberley, several
centuries ago.
Hugh's beautiful sister, Gundreda
—
la helle Gondre'e,
wedded to Nigel d'Albini—lived chiefly in the north of
England, and was a great friend of the Church.  It was
* Blomeficld's " Norfolk," mwc. ;  Close Rolls, 8 John, ap.  Record,
p. 93.
f Nicolas'  " Peerage," by Courtliope.
 - 155 - 
142            A NORMAN HOUSE.
at lier request that her son, Roger de Mowbray, founded
that Abbey of Byland, the noble ruins  of which still
keep her memory green.   She survived her husband
(who died a monk, in Bee) for several years.
Melisandra de Coucy also survived her husband, but
it is not exactly known how long.
Her nephew, Hugh Talbot, whom Hugh IV, had
placed in the Castle of Plessis, as we have seen above,
lived long enough to see the vanity of his earlier and
stormier days, and died a monk, like Neil d'Albini.   He
was a younger brother of the Geoffrey Talbot so  active
in the cause of the Empress Maud, and was the direct
lineal ancestor of
" that great Alcides of the field,
Valiant John Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury,
"
who had the Gournay blood in his veins.
 - 156 - 
CHAPTER V.
HUGH v.,  THE FEIEND OF CCEUR-DE-LION.
HE Hugh whom we have just lost sight of as
a grey-headed pilgrim, seeking in  extreme
old age the Holy Land, was followed in the
pedigree by another Hugh, sprung (as  we
know) from his  second marriage with Melisandra de
Coucy.   The new baron (Hugh V.) first  makes his ap-
pearance, as usual, witnessing a paternal charter, that
by which Hugh IV. and Melisandra founded the priory
at Clair-Ruissel*   He was then called  Hugh Junior
in the family documents ;    and one thinks of him as a
gallant young chevalier—half Gournay, half Coucy
—
drawn towards war by both bloods, but with a kindly
side  for  letters  as  Gournay, and for  song as  Coucy.
It was just  the combination for a friend of  Richard
and a Crusader against Saladin ;  and we are justified in
placing this  baron among the most distinguished men
of his  line.    The great  trunk-line  of the  house  of
*  Record, whore it is given.
 - 157 - 
144        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
Gournay was now drawing towards a close.   The Nor-
man mission committed to  it  was done,  and it  was
destined to leave the properly English mission of the
race to other branches.   But Hugh V. had his  career
for all that.    As his ancestors had helped to develop
Normandy, to  conquer England, to take Jerusalem, to
strengthen the  Church, to  forward letters, so  he was
not  without  his  work.   He followed  Lion-Heart  to
Acre,  where he did  him good service ;     he  showed
energy in the troublous reign of John ;   and the time
being come when a Gournay had to  choose between
France and England,—and no mortal skill  availed to
enable anybody to  be a great man in both,—he lost
his French fiefs  without losing  his honour.  A most
curious game—an involved, perplexing game—of politics
was that imposed upon Hugh Y. in his latter years.
But let  us contemplate him first in his warrior's hey-
day,—in  the brilliant part  of a  stormy and various
life.
For a moment we see him (by the light of the taper
used for the charter's lump of wax) witnessingthe foun-
dation of Clair-Ruissel.   This wasin Henrythe Second's
most palmy days, Avhen the long-headed Plantagenet
—
at peace with Louis, and triumphant in Ireland and at
home—seemed about to close his reign in a sovereign
tranquillity.   But the year 1173 told  a different story.
" God," says Wendover, " to  punish  King Henry for
 - 158 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            145
his  conduct  towards  St.  Thomas, raised  up against
him his own flesh  and blood."   " It was Queen Elea-
nor's  doing," says  Lord  Lyttelton, " incited  to it  by
rao^e  at  findinof  herself  neglected, and other women
preferred to her by a husband she had loved."*   The
three sons of the King, the eldest only eighteen, re-
belled against their father all  at once, with the King
of  France  at   their  back ;     and  then  it   was  that
young Henry laid  siege  to  the Castle  of  Gournay,
making prisoners Hugh IV. and Hugh V., with knights
to  the  number of  twenty-four, and  retainers  in  a
number much larger.   The castle was set fire  to also,
and the  townspeople, whose  houses  clustered  under
its   shadow,  were  forced  to  pay  ransom.f   This  is
Hugh V.'s first  appearance in  regular history.   One
would like  to  know how his  venerable  father,  who
must have been drawing towards eighty at this time,
fared in such a scene !
But it  is  an  old  complaint with  us,  that we find
the lines connecting even such great barons as  these
with public events drawn so faintly.   We know that
the Gournays were  loyal to  Henry II.  at  this  time,
and that their kinsman Albini, Earl of Arundel, was on
the same side.   But who shall tell  us where Hugh was
when King Louis  fled  from  Verneuil,  or  what he
thought of his  King's sturdy " Brabanters," or  of the
* Lyttelton's  " Henry the Second, " iii,  lOi.         + Wonilover.
L
 - 159 - 
146        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
memorable penance at Canterbury ?    As well attempt
to conjure np the old castle  from the boulevard and
gardens now occupying the site  of its  wall,  and ask
what architect directed the masons who were doubtless
repairing it  just  then, and busy every day over the
smoke-blackened towers
!
We have but a few scanty notices of Hugh V. during
the interval between the rebellion of 1173 and King
Henry's death,—broken-hearted, worn out,  and with
curses on his lips, at Chinon, in 1189
;
yet, let us make
the most of them.  The castle's existence  is  not more
certain than the truth of what is  recorded about these
long dead men, and we have a right to fill up freely, by
help of the imagination, everything that can be proved
to be absolute fact.
It was in  1181 that he succeeded to his lands, on
which occasion  he confirmed the family donations to
St. Hildevert, adding a grant to  the canons from his
mills of certain measures of wheat, and grants of money
in exchange for former rights of theirs.*   He was now
Lord of Gournay, heir of all the old lords, Gerard, ''  Old
Hugh," and others,  back to  the Norseman Eudes, of
whom the tradition  must, by this  time,  have been
waxing faint.   Did it occur to him, we wonder, that he
was to be the last lord of that fair  and rich  Pays de
Brai,  on which he  could  ride  thirty English  miles
*  Chart, ap. Record, p.  153.
 - 160 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.            147
seeing nothing but his own lands, right and left, as far
as  the sky-line ;—passing  manor-house after  manor-
house of  knight and vavassor, all  owinsf  castle-2^uard
or horse service, watch and ward, rent in money or rent
in kind to  the great chateau of Gournay ? *   Hardly,
we should think, for as he was of two great houses, and
holding Gournay under the ablest sovereign in Europe,
the probability is  quite  the other way.   We rather
picture to ourselves a proud, confident man, carelessly
accepting the reverences and thanks of Canon Godfrey
and Monk William, as they witness his  charter,  and
talk of the masses to be said for the late baron's soul.
A year or two after this, in 1183, we get a transient
glimpse of Hugh V.—(a single flash, revealing him, so
to speak)—attending the King's court at Caen.f  Henry
11.  was frequently at  that  town—always a favourite
with our Norman kings—and still justifying their taste
with its quaint cheerful populous streets, and pleasant
prairie  country round, over which the towers of the
Conqueror's  Church of  St.  Stephen loom grand  and
solemn and gray.   Hugh would be in that Church—so
affecting by its  grave early simplicity—so memorable
as containing the Conqueror's remains.   Nor would he
forget—unless sadly wanting in  esprit de race—that
his great-grandfather, Hugh III., had been one of the
* Reg. of Fiefs (JiIS.),  ap. Eecovd, p.  169.
t Supplement to Eeeord, p.  750.
L 2
 - 161 - 
148        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
witnesses to the charter of its foundation in the year of
grace 1077.*
In 1184, Hugh consented to a donation by " Girardus
Talebot,"  and in  1185 witnessed a charter of  King
Henry's, at Kouen, in favour of the Abbey of Barberi.f
It is  pleasant to find the family connection with the
illustrious Talbots kept up, and the Church continuing
to get her share.   During the same 1185, he paid 100^,
for livery of his lands in England J—one of a class  of
fines paid by everybody for everything in those days
—
when you gave the king lampreys for a right to marry,
wine for a right to have wine over, a palfrey to get you
a manor in ferm, and so  on.§   Before the end of the
reign, he also granted to one " Hugh the Burgundian"
(what a medley of blood we have in  England !)   the
manor of  Swathings, in Hardingham, in Norfolk.   It
became vested,  afterwards, in the younger branch of
the Gournays, settled at Harpley and West Barshara,
in Norfolk, the descendents of Walter, son of Gerard,
mentioned before.
This is  pretty well all  that is  to be known of Hugh
V. during the reign  of Henry II.   He moved about
from Gournay to Rouen ;    from Bouen to Caen ;    and no
*  " Gallia Christiana," xi.  p. 66.
f Supp. iibi sup.
% Rot. Pip. 31 Hen. II.  (Record, p.  12S).
§  Madox's " Exchctj^ucr."
 - 162 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.             149
doubt visited England occasionally, and saw his estates
there.    Normandy, however,  was his  head-quarters.
And here it is worth while to remaik that the Gournays
had not spread much.  The chief enjoyed his old fiefs
;
there was a branch in Somersetshire, and a branch in
the Eastern Counties.   But they had not flung out off-
shoots, banyan-tree fashion, as other jSTorman families
had done.   We meet no Gournays in Scotland among
the Lindsays, Hays, Setons,  Bruces,  Herizes, Bissets,
Gordons ;    none in Ireland among the De Burghs, Fitz-
geralds, Botelers, De Courcys.   This is a pity :     for both
countries  owe much to  " the gentle Norman blude,"
which fertilised, wherever it fell, like a pleasant rain.
Henry II.  died,  in the mood of mind above men-
tioned, in 1189.   His son Henry had died before him,
more miserably still
;
gasping out his confession upon a
bed strewn with ashes, and writhing in all the spiiitual
agony of the intense mediseval times.   As they carried
the  old  king's  body to  the  Church  of  Fontevraud,
^'Earl Kichard" met it,  and "wept bitterly,"  where-
upon  " blood  flowed  in  streams  from the  nostrils,"
says Hoveden.  They were profoundly superstitious in
that age, when earth and air, land and sea, were still
full  of terror and mystery.  Think, then, what it ivas
to  be brave ;     and (remembering the Walter Mapes
Poems, and many a trait  of  the  old  reckless jollity
mentioned by the chroniclers,) what it ivas to be genial.
 - 163 - 
150        THREE HUNDEED YEARS OF
Richard himself was not a mighty warrior only, though
his lion-heart was famous through Europe.  He loved
song and beauty ;   and a light of humour played over
his great and energetic character like the sunlight on
his polished mail.
We know not where Hugh V. first  met Richard,
whose confidence we shall show him to have possessed.
But we may assume that he was present at his " gird-
ing with the sword" of the Dukes of Normandy at
Rouen, when fealty was sworn by the province ;   if not,
at his coronation in London, in September.  " Nearly
all  the abbots, priors,  earls,  and barons of England"
were there, the chroniclers say ;    making a sight for the
good old town, whose citizens  served in  the  cellars,
while those of Winchester served in the kitchen,* at
the coronation-feast.   These splendours over (not with-
out suffering to the Jews, on whom the populace made
a desperate assault on this  occasion),  Richard began
active preparations for the great event of his life  and
reign—his  Crusade.  Our next view of  Hugh V. is
before the walls of Acre—an appearance too memor-
able  in  the  family  history  not  to  deserve  copious
illustration from our pen.
Things had gone ill,  as all  readers will remember,
with the Christians in the Holy Land.  Their bells had
])eeu silenced in Jerusalem, and no longer sent music
* Hoveden, A.D. 1189.
 - 164 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            151
floating  towards  the  Mount  of  Olives.    The great
Saladin had regained the Temple, and purified it with
rose-water ;* and his dusky vassals had spit upon the
Cross of Christ, and trampled it under their feet.
Our pious ancestors  (to  whose own testimonies we
owe our knowledge of their faults)  had a simple way
of accounting for the misfortunes of their kinsmen in
Palestine.   They attributed them to  degeneracy and
misconduct—to offences which God they thought pun-
ished more severely when committed in His own land
than elsewhere.   " From the beginning," says William
of  IS ewbury,  " the Divinity is  known to  have more
patiently tolerated sins,  in all  regions under heaven,
than m terra ilia—in that land."f  There were no
longer religious men from every nation there, he adds
;
" but wicked men, luxurious ones, drunkards, buffoons,
actors
—
Jioc  genus omne—had flowed into the sacred
territory as into a common sewer."   We must suppose
that there was truth in these  representations.   The
crusaders, when the first reverence had worn off, would,
no doubt, give  way to  the temptations natural to  a
conquering race :   .and we must not forget that beautiful
as chivalry was, it  was at best an ideal which could
only  be  reached  by a  few.   The truth  about  our
ancestors and their actual life  is  not to  be found in
* Guill. Neutrig, ed. Hearne, i.  312.
t Neub. i.  299.
 - 165 - 
15£        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
poetry only, though still less among those who systema-
tically exaggerate their vices and their " barbarism."
Whatever the sins of the Christians in Syria, at this
time, they were fearfully chastised.   All the troubles
inherent -in  feudalism  raged  amongst them,  setting
baron against baron, and priest against templar.*  They
sallied  out  against  each  other from towers  planted
amongst the rocks and palm-trees just as if they had
been in the woody Norman valleys, or in the long low
moss-country  of the  western  Scottish  border.   The
Count of Tripoli disputed the crown of Jerusalem with
Baldwin the Leper ;   and a French adventurer, Renaud
de Chatillon, planted on the frontiers of Arabia with a
handful  of  desperadoes  around  him,  defied  equally
Saladin and his own feudal lord.   Weakened within,
and threatened without, the Christian kingdom had to
fight for its existence, and the Holy City fell a prey to
the great Moslem chief,  after  terrible battles,  in  the
year 1187.
There were symptoms before this,  in Christendom,
that the crusading zeal was dying out.   But the loss
of Jerusalem was an event too terrible not to rouse an
age which was equally sincere in  its worship of Christ
and its  glory in war.   The Pontiff Urban died of a
broken heart at the news that  such a calamity had
happened in his time.f   Preparations were everywhere
* Michaud's "Crusades."                 f Hoveden.
 - 166 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            153
begun for another Holy War.  A " Saladin Tithe " was
imposed ;    " to be collected in  each parish in the pre-
sence of the priest of the parish, the rural dean, one
templar, one hospitaller, one member of the household
of our lord the king,"* &c.   The tithe was laid on the
revenue of each person for the year, and on his chattels
likewise ;   being an " income tax " and" property tax " to
some purpose !         They were no niggards in what they
thought a good cause—the men of the twelfth century,
at all events ;    and if any tvere contumacious, they were
laid  in  irons till  they paid.   Even the Jews had to
subscribe f—most unwillingly, no doubt—towards the
recovery  of  their  own ancestral  city,—a  provision
smacking of the peculiar feudal humour of a remote
age !
Kichard had assumed the Cross before his father's
death, as had the old king himself   No sooner was he
crowned, than " he put up for sale everything he had,"
J
and raised immense sums.  Hewas, indeed, a sumptuous,
profuse, and splendid monarch—to a degree which is
hardly excusable, when we remember how he made
himself  master of  his  mighty drains  of  gold.§   To
Richard, as earlier to Courthose, a Crusade was not a
* Hoveden.            f Ibid.                X Ibid.
§  "Richard's presence-chamber was a market-overt,  in which all
that the king could bestow .      .     .     was disposed of to the best chap-
man."  (Palgrave's *'  Pref. to Rot. Cur." p. xlii.)
 - 167 - 
154        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
pious enthusiastic piece of duty only; it was an occa-
sion for gratifying the love of war and enterprise;  it
supplied an arena for the display of brilliant prowess,
beautiful armourand caparisons—all the pomp andglory
of old romance.  The generation of Hugh V. were gayer
and finer gentlemen from this point of view, possessed
more showy acccmplishments, than the generation of
Gerard, Bohemond, and Godfrey de Bouillon.  Like their
architecture,  their  life  was more " decorated
;
"  and
it was not less as Preux Chevalier, than as Mediajval
Christian, that  Richard  wept  and averted his  eyes,
when he drew near the sepulchre  and city which he
could not save.
The sales  of  manors, vills  and rights having gone
merrily on, and the king having acquired a very large
sum of money, a council was held in London, whei'e all
swore on " the Holy Evangelists " to be " at Vezelay at
the close of Easter (1190) prepared to set out for Jeru-
salem."   Finding,  as  we do,  Hugh de  Gournay in
attendance on the king at Acre, we mayassume that he
took the same route southward that his sovereign did.
Gerard had done so, as we have seen, with Courthose
;
and it  was more natural  for  a noble  whose head-
quarters were in Upper Normandy, and whose means
were great, to travel by land than by sea.   Neverthe-
less, let  us not forget that the seafaring share of the
expedition constitutes a marked epoch in the history
 - 168 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             ]55
of the British navy.*  The first  " articles of war" date
from 1190, in  the  April of  which year a  crusading
fleet of one hundred ships sailed from Dartmouth, and
weathered, admirably, a rough gale of wind on their
way out to the Mediterranean.
While these  galleys,—bluff  " busses,"  " dromons,"
and " ursers,"  for carrying horses—were bowling away
at sea (at  no gi-eat  rate of knots i^er hour), the two
Kings of England  and France proceeded southwards
by land.   Fancy pictures  Hugh de  Gournay in the
retinue of his lord, with many a follower from the Pays
de Brai whose names have long been forgotten,  and
whose unconscious descendants  are  probably making
butter and cheese there at this hour.   At Tours, King
Kichard received the scrip and staff of his pilgrimage
from the hands of William the Archbishop, the " staff
"
breaking while he leant  on it, which his  army would
not like.t   From Lyons they went to Vezelay, " where
rests," says an ancient writer, " the body of Saint Mary
Magdalen."  At Lyons a bridge over the Rhone gave
way, " being thronged with men and women," and in-
jured great numbers.+   The kings separated here, the
multitude  who followed  them being too large,  and
* " Hist, of the Navy," by Sir Han-is Nicolas, (to whom all genea-
logists owe so iimeh, )  i.  p. 89, 90.
.
f Hovedeu, a.d. 1190.
X Ibid.
 - 169 - 
]56        THREE HUNDEED YEARS OF
Richard made for  Marseilles,  while  Philip  made for
Genoa.  How triflinsf a thinsf it  sounds to us to have
arrived at Marseilles, and to bewaiting for the steamer
!
But to have arrived at  Marseilles in  1190, and to  be
waiting for the fleet from England, was something very-
different.   Not to  mention the  fatigue of the recent
journey, the  daily adventures among such  a crowd of
followers, the strange legends everywhere meeting one,
and inspiring wonder and awe,—how vast must have
seemed the Mediterranean sea to the mail-clad pilgrims
of that time !         What a medley of classical  and scrip-
tural tradition would vaguely wander about the cru-
sader's memory and imagination, as he gazed ujDon its
glittering blue waves.
King  E-ichard waited  several  days  at  Marseilles,
and waiting was a kind  of  torture to a man of  his
temperament ;   but the fleet  from England still tarried.
So, in  a  gloomy and restless  mood, he  hired  some
galleys, and proceeded on a cruise along the coast of
Italy.   Whether Hugh V.  attended  him there, we
cannot say ;     but we are  inclined  to  think  that  he
did  not ;      that  he  either  sailed  to Acre direct from
Marseilles (as we know Baldwin, Archbishop of Can-
terbury,  Ranulph de  Glanville,  and  others, to have
done*),  or,  at  least,   that  he  separated  from  the
King's party at some subsequent stage of the journey.
* Hoveden.
 - 170 - 
A NORMAN HOLSE.            157
Apassage in the chronicler Vinsauf*  leads us to this
belief, where Hugh is mentioned amoug some eminent
Normans  arriving  at Acre,  in  a  way which  shows
Vinsauf to mean that they were earlier at  the siege
than the English king.   This might well be, if  Hugh
pushed  on  from Marseilles, or afterwards  from Mes-
sina,  before Richard's Cyprus adventures.   We cannot
decide how this was, but we know that he did arrive
at Acre during the siege,  along with other Normans,
of whom were Walkelin de Ferrars, Robert Trussebot,
and Ivo de Vipont.f
Thefamous city of Acre still interests a Mediterranean
tourist, with its gray sea-walls stained by time and the
shot of the British squadron in 1840 ;    with its  vener-
able Mount Carmel, an eternal  reminder of the holy
antiquity of the  land.   But what a contrast  to  the
stagnant Turkish loneliness  of the present town was
the Acre at which Hugh de Gournay landed in the
Third Crusade !         An immense Christian army besieged
the town, while Saladin, with his thousands of many-
coloured tents gleaming along the hills, watched and
threatened them.  All day long the desultory fighting
of the siege  went on.   Stones hurled from 'petrarice
whizzed through the air, those from the city sometimes
* Vinsauf in  " Chronicles of the  Cnuades," p.  123.   This writer
was himself in the expedition,
t Vinsauf, lib. 1.  c.  42.
 - 171 - 
158        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
crushing the rival machines of the crusaders, by one of
which, too, a priest preached steadily from hour to hour
as the engines worked it.*    Slingers plied incessantly
against the walls wherever an infidel's  head was seen,
with all  the more vigour if  (as  sometimes happened)
the infidel  mocked them by spitting on the symbolic
Cross.   Greek fire flung from the walls burnt unquench-
ably among our troops  at intervals.   Now and then
there were sea fights —forerunners of our naval vic-
tories—when galley met galley with a dead shock, and
some Norman knight " led the boarders," battle-axe in
hand.  In the midst of such daily slaughter, famine for
a time afflicted our camp, near winter, too, " when," says
Master  Geoffrey  Vinsauf, unconsciously testif3dng  to
the old love of Christmas cheer, " they ivere  usually
more "prodigal and luxurious."  Horse-flesh became a
luxury,  and there were hungry men who ate  gi'ass
;
while heavy rains fell,  soaking and making sick  the
weary troops.   " I have remained long enough in this
army !"  groaned Baldwin, Archbishop of Canterbury,
hearing that amidst all  these miseries, drinking and
vice  were not unknown ;   and in fifteen days he was
.dead         Such were the scenes  and events which
Hugh Y. had to meditate over in his tent " towards the
plain" t—(for so far we can fix his exact position),—but
* Vinsauf, lib. 1.  c.  42.
f Giles's  " Weudover," ii.  91.
 - 172 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            159
it  is  pleasant to  find  Vinsauf mentioning that the
Normangroup in which he has already placed him were
especially active  in  relieving their  poorer  brethren *
Things brightened again ;    but the forced fasting of the
winter was not allowed to  excuse the crusaders from
the pious fasting of Lent.f
King Richard in the meantime had been displaying
in the Mediterranean a romantic personal heroism that
might have been sung byHomer.  AtMessina, at Cyprus,
every provocation had found him ready for combat ;    and
Cyprus, where he married Berengaria of Navarre, he
seized from the  Emperor Isaac, whom he chained in
silver fetters,  and kept prisoner.   The Greek "civili-
sation," —cunning  and  rhetorical  talent,  'plus  the
mechanical arts,—was not a kind of thing that  our
ancestors either worshipped or feared.   Loyal heart and
manly hand, these were their favourite qualities ;   their
good sense had a stalwart character about it,  like their
valour ;   and the clever  slippery Comnenos writhed as
helplessly in Richard's mailed hand as  an eel.   The
King  feudalised  Cyprus ;      left   it   in   hands  that
knew how to keep it ;      and  then turned the  prows
of his galleys towards Syria, sinking a Turkish galley
in a sea-fight by the way.  He arrived in Acre soon
after  the  French King, on  Saturday  " in  Pentecost
week "  (a time always associated  by the troubadours
* Yinsaif, lib. 1.  c.  79.                    f  Ibid.
 - 173 - 
160        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
with  the  nightingale  and  the  rose),  the  8th  June,
1191.   His landing was a great  event  for  the  cru-
saders of all  nations, and is  described by the chroni-
clers with something like rapture.   The night that fol-
lowed was beautiful and calm, and the camp resounded
far  and wide with trumpets, horns, and ballad-singing.
Everywhere there was drinking and dancing,  and so
many lights blazed among the tents, that " the Turks,"
Vinsauf says, " thought the whole valley was on fire."
The city was taken in  July, and the capture sup-
plies an important event to  this family history.   The
two kings divided the city, and all that was found in it,
the pagani included, amongst themselves ;    divided it
fairly, by numbers and measure, num'^ro et  7nensura,
says Benedict of Peterborough.*  To carry out this im-
portant proceeding, each monarch selected on his own
part a baron and a hundred knights.  The baron chosen
by King Philip of France was Drogo de Merlou ;    the
baron chosen by King Richard of England was Hugh
de Gournay.f
To be so chosen was a very great honour to Hugh de
Gournay.  If it was partly owing to his family that he
obtained it,  so we may fairly suppose that his personal
qualities went for something in the matter.   Coeur-de-
Lion was likely to have an eye for a man, and he had
* Bened. Pet. ed.  Heanie (1735), p. 664.
t Bened. Pet. p. 664 ;   Riley's "Hoveden," ii.  215.
 - 174 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            101
the  flower of European chivalry to choose from.   The
division took place on the  18th July,* when Hugh V.
would be busy enough, telling off swarms of dusky cap-
tives, and bags of bezants, arms, ornaments, and spoils
of the East.  Thebanners of each sovereign were hoisted
on his respective parts  of the town, and that of King
Richard waved from the royal palace.    " Thus, each
obtained his  portion  in  peace,"  says  Vinsauf,  which
must partly, no doubt, have been owing to  the good
management and temper of the two barons to whom
the business had been committed.
Among the articles  of the treaty when Acre was
yielded, had been one for the delivery of the True Cross :
how unspeakably sacred an object in  the eyes of the
crusaders, we need not say.   Hostages were given by
the Saracens for the fulfilment of this and other stipu-
lations, but in August they had not been performed.
Richard then threatened to  cut  off the heads of the
pagans in his possession, and Saladin anticipated him
by sacrificing  the Christians in  his.   The king kept
Avord ;   the captives were led out and beheaded in sight
of Saladin's army.  As we have never professed to be
giving only the  sunny side  of mediasval life, we may
add that the bodies were " disembowelled "  and " much
gold and silver "  found in " the entrails."f   Hugh—in
* Hoveden.
+ Kiley's  " Hoveden," ii.  220.
 - 175 - 
162        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
whose charge the captives had once been—would see
all this.   But we must not too strongly condemn those
stern  crusaders.   The lives  taken  had been forfeited
by the laws of war.   A pagan to  them was Christ's
enemy as well as their own.  And the disembowelling
of the remains was, after all,  but the " dissection "  of
an early and unscientific age.*
We do  not  find  from  the  old  writers  that  the
Christian army ever recovered anything but a part of
the  True Cross.f   Of that part,  however, some frag-
ment came into the possession of Hugh de Gournay,
and was presented by him, as a relic, to his Church of
St. Hildevert.J  Hence, no doubt, the engrailed cross
gules borne for so many centuries by the Gournays of
Norfolk.   Nothing is so certain about Heraldry as that
it was flourishing in the twelfth  century, and that it
was influenced by the crusades.   We do not know its
origin.   We cannot describe its  gi'owth.   But no one
who studies it  can fail to  see its  beauty, significance,
and use.   With the symbolism which the Middle Ages
loved,  and the ornamentation which decks war whilst
it   refines  it.  Heraldry combined a useful means  of
distinguishing families, and marking gentle blood.  We
* They used the " gall "  so obtained for  *' medical purposes," ac-
cording to Hoveden.
t Viusauf, lib.  v., c.  53, 5i.
X Record, p. 129.
 - 176 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.            163
may still  study its  remains—pretty shells flung up on
the dry beach for us by the feudal sea—and not refuse
the name of a science to a system which heljDS  us to
know the details of the Past.
That Hugh accompanied Cceur-de-Lion on his march
from Acre to  Ascalon, we know from the  same con-
temporary writers who assure us that he was at the
siege.   The army moved between the enemy and the
sea ;   over bad roads, through thickets and copses, and
always in danger of the Saracens breaking upon them
from the hills.   When these warriors did descend, the
battles were fierce, and the sword of Richard played
" like  lightning "  among their files.   At night, when
the  tents  were  pitched, and the  crusaders  breathed
themselves  after  the  toilsome  march, brushing away
the insects that hummed through the hot air, a voice
regularly cried from the centre  of the camp, " Help !
Help !  for tJte  Holy Sepulchre I "   The army took it
up, and it was shouted again and again ;    with " abun-
dant weeping " too, from those fierce men, in whom all
passions, hard or tender, existed in such freshness and
power.*  So, they marched on, from Acre to Caiaphas,
from Caiaphas to Capernaum, and thence to Csesarea.
It was after leaving this town, that they fought a great
battle  with  Saladin  at  Assur.   The Normans  and
English were in the " fourth line,"  and had charge of
* Viusauf.
M 2
 - 177 - 
164        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
the standard ;    so, it was in the place of honour that the
chief of the Gournays fought that day *   His nearest
companions were the Earl of Leicester, the last  of the
Bellomonts ;t  Walkin de  Ferrars ;       Roger de Tony
;
and the gallant James D'Avennes, who fell covered with
blood and glory, and was mourned by all men including
Richard himself.   The rout  of the Infidels was com-
plete, and the slaughter of them immense.  Joppa and
Ascalon were abandoned by their forces after this blow
;
from which  " Melech  Ric,"  as  they  called  Richard,
became more formidable to them than ever.   Our army
advanced to Joppa;   encamped among its olive-gardens
;
and revelled in the pleasant fruits of the land.
But we are not called upon to follow the lion-hearted
king through the remainder of his adventures.   For,
soon after  this,  he detached Hugh de Gournay from
military service, and sent him home, on what we now
call  a " diplomatic "  mission.   As all  readers  of  our
established historians know, England had been thrown
into great confusion at this time, by the proceedings of
William Longchamp, Bishop of Ely, the king's chan-
cellor.   The story of this man has its  significance in
aristocratic history ;   since he had risen to the greatest
* Vinsauf, lib.  iv.  c.  17.
-|-   Robert, surnamed " Fitz  Parnell.''   It is worth while to observe
how the earlier  class  of Normans were going out.   The Haniiltons
are  said  to  have descended from  the  De Bellomonts—but  this  is
more than doubtful.
 - 178 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.            105
position in the kingdom, though the gi'andson of a serf
in the Bearnais, and was thought by his contemporaries
to be all the more offensive in the exercise of his power
from that  circumstance*  This shows  us,  first,  that
talent could raise a humble man in the height of the
feudal system;    secondly, that aristocracy was so ancient,
long-established  a thing in  Europe as to  make such
elevation remarkable ;    thirdly, that the conduct of new
men did not dispose  the  people  to encourage them :
three  positions  well worth  consideration  by all  who
interest  themselves  in  the  questions on which  they
throw light.
Longchamp, we may remind the reader, was deposed
by Richard's  brother,  John, then Earl  of  Cornwall,
with whom there acted in the affair many barons and
bishops as well  as  the citizens of London, in the au-
tumn of this year, 1191.  Both parties appealed to Pope
Celestinus,  and to the king,  while excommunications
flew about from one side  to  the  other.   Richard was
much vexed by the trouble which the dispute gave him,
in the midst of a kind of strife which was much more
in his way ;   and Hugh Y. was one of those Avhom he
sent to Europe to try and arrange matters.   It was a
proof that Hugh was thought to possess civil  as well
as military talent  (which confirms much that we have
said  of the race  before) ;     and he seems not to have
*  Riley's  " Hoveden," ii.  232.
 - 179 - 
166        THEEE HUNDEED YEAES OF
disappointed the king.   We find him at Eome in the
spring of 1192, in deep converse with "the clerks of
the archbishop of  Rouen," Longchamp's successor in
the chancellorship ;*  and the historian of the Prsemon-
stratensian Order claims for him an important share in
the  negotiations.t   A compromise was the result of
this controversy.   Longchamp did not regain his great
position in England, but neither did he lose the gen-
erous Richard's friendship.
The captivity of Richard,—who by the way did not
only solace his confinement with
"        Songs below the waning stars,"
but used, in  the rough feudal  manner, to  make his
guards drunk, and fight with the huge brawny fellows,^
—brought Hugh more serious employment.
Philip of France, ever mindful of the Acre quarrel,
ever jealous  of  Lion-Heart's  romantic renown,  (as
the  shrewd  man is  so apt  to  be  of  the  brilliant
man),  eagerly longed to  strike  him while his  hands
were bound.  But if Philip was an ungenerous rival,
John was a disloyal subject and false brother.   They
plotted together, for  their  common  benefit,  against
Richard  and England.   Philip  invaded  Normandy.
* Eiley's  " Hoveden," ii.  276.
f Record, part i.  Appendix, xxviii.
J Giles's  " Wendover," ii.  127.
 - 180 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            1G7
A traitor yielded Gisors.   Hugh V. was not in a posi-
tion to resist under such circumstances, and surrendered
Gournay.*  This was in 1193; while Richard was still
in prison, and England was ransacking itself for money
(so  proud was it  of the  man), to  raise  his ransom.
Richard spurred the willing horse, too ;    and once said
in his wild humorous way, that " he would sell London
if he could find a purchaser ;"  an extravagance which
beats the Arabian Nights.
It was now that the Lord of Gournay began to feel
the full  difficulties  of his ancestral position.   It  was
a very splendid one, no doubt.   The family matched
with princely houses,  and enjoyed  the  friendship  of
sovereigns.   They were great barons on both sides of
the Channel ;     leaders  in  wai",  and in  politics.   But
" Gournay" was just situated in one of those posts of
honour which are  emphatically posts of danger.   Al-
though the " Key of Rouen ;" f it was almost the first
spot on which the blows of a French invader of Nor-
mandy fell.    This might matter little,  while a great
monarch held the crown of England and its neighbour-
ing dukedom.  But with a Richard in captivity, or a
John on the  throne, it  was a  very  different  thing.
* Cxiles's  " Wendover," ii.  133 ;    Carte (" Hist. Eng." i.  757) makes
Hugh " join " the baron who yielded Gisors,  hut this  is  an error on
the part of tliat very learned writer.
t It was attacked and defended as such down to the wars of Henry
IV. of France.
 - 181 - 
168        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
Then, the whole force of a French monarch attacking
England was brought to bear on the family at once
;
and they were the first sacrifice to the evil genius of
the time.   We are to remember, also, that every Lord
of Gournay was, for a part of his possessions, a vassal
of the King of France ;   that the extent of his Norman
fief and the traditions of his continental alliances made
his position essentially a continental one.   Here, then,
was a source of moral embarrassment to him, in rela-
tion  to the two kings between whom he was placed.
He constantly ran the risk of falling  to the ground
between two thrones.   He could not feel towards either
monarch as a Shropshire squire of Norman blood did
towards the descendant of William, or as a gentilhomme
catnjpagnard of the Isle  of  France did towards  the
potentate  called  " King of  the Franks."  Like some
Normans settled on the borders of England and Scot-
land, he was apt to be uncertain in his allegiance ;    all
the more from that ancient sentiment of independence,
which, while both baronial and feudal, was older than
baronies or feuds ;    can be traced far away to the heroic
and mythical epoch of the Gothic races ;    and is  the
real source of the truest liberty existing among their
descendants.
When we bear these facts in  mind, we must not be
too hard on Hugh V. if we find certain " variations " in
what we should now-a-days call  his  "public career."
 - 182 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            169
The kinoes of France and England seem to have made
allowances for it themselves.   Thus, in the truce made
between Richard and Philip, in 1193, we find a special
article relating to Hugh de Gournay, which is evidently
intended to recognise the dubiety of his political posi-
tion, so to speak, and to leave him considerable freedom
of action in his attitude towards both kings ;   showing
that neither of them had anything to complain of in
his conduct, so far.   The article is obscurely expressed.*
But the substance of it amounts to this, that he was to
continue " holding" under the two potentates, and that
if he ever wished to belong more decidedly to either of
them he was to have fair terms from the other.   We
cannot ascertain his exact position at this point, though
it would seem that the advantages gained by the French
king in his late irruption had brought Hugh more under
his power than before.
At all events, when Richard was free, and war going
on again between the kings the year after this  (1194)
(John being  then partially  restored to his  brother's
favour), a sally was made by the Earl of Leicester and
others into the Gournay territory, to lay it  waste, on
which the Earl was taken prisoner  by the King of
France.   And in the fresh truce that  followed, that
same July,  Hugh is  among the  persons  named by
*  K}Tner, vol. i.  82 ;    Record, App. xxv.
 - 183 - 
170        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
Philip as to be included in it ;* which confirms what the
old historian of Normandy says about his rather leaning
to France at this time.f  The stormy life  Hugh would
lead that summer, with war ever roaring through the
Norman woods,  the swarms of  armed vassals always
ready throughout his territory,  and the keen look-out
kept from his towers over the valley, our readers can
faintly  imagine  for  themselves.   Next  year  (1195)
another  agreement made between the  kings  about
Hugh was, that he should remain in Philip's homage
for his life,  unless he wished to return to  Richard's
;
but that such of his knights as had gone over to the
English king should still  pay him homage, saving only
their faith to Richard.J   Here, then, we find Hugh in
formal alliance with the King of France, and on the
surface it would seem as if he was wholly of his party.
Yet it would be a great mistake to suppose that these
political  changes involved any personal dishonour, or
broke off Hugh's connection with his patron and brother
Crusader.   On the contrary, during the closing years of
the fighting king's stormy reign he appears in several
of his public documents.  He was one of those bound
to  the  performance  of  a  treaty  between  him and
Baldwin, Earl of Flanders, in 1197.   And in 1198 he
*  Riley's  " Hoveden," ii.  330.
t Dumoulin,  " Hist, de Normandie," p. 473.
J Rymjr, i.  91.
 - 184 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            171
witnessed charters of his to the Abbeys of Perseigne,
Jumieges, and Mortemer.*  In the feudal sense, he was
the vassal of both kings ;   but he was, in the long run,
the friend only of one—of that matchless warrior, the
ashes of whose lion-heart are now shown, a tiny heap
of white dust, to the visitor of the Museum at Rouen.
It is now time to say something of the benefactions
of Hugh V. to the Church, before we show how he lost
his Norman possessions in the evil days of the worst of
the Plantagenets.
The House of Gournayhad always loved and favoured
the Church.  Hugh V. did not neglect the family tra-
dition.   He thought of his own St. Hildevert at Gour-
nay when he was warring in  Syria, and he brought
home many relics  for  it—" some hair  of  St.  Mary
Magdalen," it  seems, among others.   During his  stay
at  Home, he had obtained " indulgences "  for such as
came to worship there—especially to worship the por-
tion of the True Cross mentioned earlier in this chapter.
He founded an altar of the Holy Cross in St. Hildevert,
where a lamp was kept burning at matins, and mass
was celebrated  every day.   Hence—so  strangely and
significantly are things spiritual  and things temporal
connected in this  world's history,  so closely  did they
bind themselves together, above all in the Middle Ages,
—hence, we say, the origin of the fair at Gournay, which
* Charters quoted in Kecord and Supplement to Piecoid.
 - 185 - 
17^        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
this Hugh founded, and which was much frequented*
The country-folk coming to worship, came also to buy
and sell—a healthy association,  and by no means so
incongruous a one as we are apt to think.   A specula-
tive man might thus, without exaggeration, trace some
relation between the Crusade of Hugh de Gournay V.
and the excellence of the Gournay butter at this day !
Ftr it  was not by their  fighting,  nor even by their
administration only, that the old barons served Europe,
but by forwarding  such social  conveniences  as fairs,
markets, and so forth, in their own districts,—like our
present one.   To make his hereditary seat of Gournay
a still more effective centre of spiritual interest, Hugh
also presented the chapter of St. Hildevert with a silver
chest, to take the place of the wooden one which had
hitherto held the patron saint's bones.  The Archbishop
of  Canterbury  officiated  at  the  ceremony of  their
transfer, which took place in March, 1201.t
Afew years before this—in 1198—Hugh V. had done
a more important service to religion by founding the
Abbey of Bellosanne.   This house was devoted to the
Praemonstratensian Order under the rule of St. Augus-
tine,  and stood in a forest of the same name on the
ancient lands of the family in the district  of Brai, five
miles from Gournay.   The charter which endows it
incidentally tells  us that the Lords of Gournay had a
* Record, p.  130.                 f Ibid. pp. 133, 134.
 - 186 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             173
curia,  or  country-house there,  with a private chapel
dedicated to Our Lady.  This was probably a hunting-
seat, such as most great families had ;   and the chapel
would be the scene  of  many a  curtailed  hunting-
mass,  suited to  the  impatience of  those old  barons
when the dew on the Norman woods was beginning to
glitter  in  the morning sun.   Bellosanne  Abbey was
endowed by Hugh, with lands and churches, rights of
pasture, and of buying and selling, with the details of
which we need not trouble the reader.*   His obit-day
was kept there in due time, and the house survived till
the Revolution.  We may couple with it, in this para-
graph, the foundation in 1200, by the same baron, of a
convent of Cistercian nims at St. Aubin, near Gournay,
Both charters  are  witnessed  by men of  honourable
names ;   and that of Bellosanne was confirmed by King
Richard and his successor.
Some minor donations—though by no means unim-
portant—may be similarly classed  together,  to  show
how Huyh V. recoofnised  the  claims  of i-elioion  and
charity.   He endowed his favourite chapter of St. Hil-
devert with the tithes of Caistor and Cantley, in Nor-
folk.   And he granted to the sick poor of the hospital
of Lisieux a rent of a thousand eels, paid yearly at the
*  Seethe Charter in  " Gallia Christiana," xi. p. 29 ;   and Record,
Append, xxviii.
 - 187 - 
174        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
feast  of St.  Andrew, from his  lordship  of  Ecouche*
There was a " Leproserie," with its Httle chapel attached,
at Gournay also, for the comfort of the forlorn leper of
those times—dreariest of all  outcasts, at the tinkling
of whose bell in his .wanderings the stoutest warrior
felt the flesh creep under his mail.
Enough has been said to prove that the Fifth Hugh
was not less  interested than his predecessors in  the
cause of the good and of the poor.   We resume the
narrative of his career after Richard had fallen by the
arrow of Gurdon, and" John succeeded to the English
crown.   It was the darkest and most troublous period
of his life.
" Philip," says a good modern historian ofNormandy,t
" took a hostile attitude to John as soon as the death of
Richard was known."  But the new king, weak, vicious,
ill-conditioned, had neither the wit to check the French
monarch peacefully, nor the gallantry in war which his
brother had successfully opposed to his shrewdness and
energy.   He began by making a bad bargain with him
in 1200, the year after his accession, when he ceded
Evreux and other places to Louis, his son—finding the
son a wife at the same time in the person of his niece,
Blanche of Castillo.   On this occasion, Hugh de Gour-
nay was certainly  not,  even as  far as  his  Norman
* Record, p. 134, and Append, xxix.
f Depping,  " Hist, de la Normandie,'' ii.  411.
 - 188 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             175
position went, a subject of Philip.   It was agreed in
the treaty that if John died without heirs the Norman
homage of Hugh should belong to Philip ;  * but mean-
while the right vested, as of old, in the English king.
Hugh was one of the sureties for the execution of this
treaty, on John's j)art, together with Baldwin, Earl of
Aumarle,t William  Earl  of  Pembroke,+  Robert de
Harcourt, and others, who all  swore to come over to
the King of France ''with all  their fiefs  on this side
the  sea,"  if  John failed to  keep to  his  covenants.^
This "treaty of peace and final  reconciliation," as a
chronicler calls  it, proved neither final nor reconcilia-
tory.   At once weak and turbulent, with every quality
of a tyrant except the vigour, John could not resist his
rival king's policy by cunning, and quarrelled so early
with his barons that neither could he defeat it by force.
In 1201 there were disturbances in  Poitou ;   and the
barons of England refusing to cross the sea till  their
" rights "  were restored, gave the first impulse to the
great—essentially feudal—movement which produced
Magna Charta, and made tyranny impossible in  Eng-
land.   One of the first  castles John would fain have
seized  on this  occasion was Belvoir,||  the  seat  of  a
* Riley's  " Hoveden," ii.  511 ;    Rymer, i.  113.
t Baldwin de Betun, ob. 1212.
+ William ]\Iarslial (Marshal of England), ob. 1219.
§ Hoveden.
II   Hoveden.  Belvoir then belonged to "William de Albiui, one of the
 - 189 - 
176        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
branch of the De Albinis, kinsmen (as has been shown
before) of the Lords of Gournay.
The peace between the kings of France and England
was an uneasy and insincere one.   PhiUp was scheming
to obtain Normandy, and John's own character was the
best point in his favour in the game.  He soon sum-
moned him to  appear and do homage for Aquitaine,
Touraine,  and Anjou ;    and in  1202 he invaded Nor-
mandy in  force.   Gournay was immediately invested.
Part of its  defence was a great lake which fed  the
moats of the castle,  and by piercing the  "digues,"
Philip threatened to  submerge the  flourishing  town
itself, which had grown up under its protection.   Again
was Gournay yielded.   King Philip liked the place, and
it was there that he knighted Arthur,*—unhappy young
prince, so soon to disappear for ever, and to  leave  a
dark shadowof suspicion onJohn's memory !      Apoetical
narrative of the capture of Gournay on this occasion is
found in  the ancient ''  Philippiad "  of William Brito.
He describes the town as
Vicura populosa gente superbum,
Divitiis plemim variis, famaque celebrem,
Rure situm piano, mimitum trijilice muro .    .     .
adding many lines which testify to the goodliness of the
celebrated Twenty-five Barons,  who formed a "Lords' Committee"
afterwards, to see the Great Charter carried out.   From his family it
went by blood to the Kooses, and so to the Mamierses.
* Depping, ii.  454.
 - 190 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            177
inheritance that the Gournays were now about to lose.
From this time, indeed, theywere never masters of their
ancestral  domains again ;    never enjoyed again either
the lordship  of  their  spreading territories,  with  its
power and honour, and country sports, or the domestic
life  within the walls of the castle, which was all  the
more intense from the energy and frequent danger of
the life without.
Hugh V. adhered steadily to John for some time in
this  war, and especially  distinguished  himself among
the defenders of Chateau Galliard on the Seine.*   In
the fourth of John (1208) he occurs in the Patent Rolls
as  having French prisoners committed to his charge.f
But there is no doubt that he changed sides that same
year.   Probably he always held himself free to choose
between the two monarchs, and John was not a man to
bind him to  an affectionate  or loyal allegiance.   The
reader, too, will remember what has been said of the
peculiar position, geographical as  well  as  feudal, of a
Lord of Gournay.   Whether, however, the  mode of
Hugh's transition—for he yielded the castle of Mont-
fort  to  Philip  under suspicious  circumstances J—was
questionable ;    or,  whether he  suffered  himself to  be
made a cat's-paw  of,  certainly he lost  some dignity by
* Speed.  Wendover.
+ Dugdale's " Baroutage. "  Part 4, Joh. m. 11.
i Hist, des Gaules, xviii. p. 342 ;    Carte, i.  788.
 - 191 - 
178        THKEE HUNDRED YEARS OF
this  proceeding.   Neither king would have him ;    and
he was stripped of his lands on each side the Channel
by both.   A French chronicler says, Philip thought him
" manifestus proditor ;''*  and John, in distrusting his
Norfolk and Suffolk lands to one of the Marshals, calls
him " Hugh Gournay, the traitor." f  But we cannot
help thinking that a thorough rogue would have made
a better thing of it,  and that  he was simply ruined
when trying to do his best, by the extreme complexity
of  his  position,  and the violence  of  the  times.   If
Philip wanted his Norman, and John his English fiefs,
it was hard for  him to contrive  to  keep both.   The
attempt hastened his losing both, and he fled to Cam-
bray.   There, in exile, and probably in narrow means,
(for  those great barons when they did  fall,  fell  with
a severe crash),  he could at least  console himself by
reflecting that he had broken no  tie  of generous or
grateful  affection.   His heart would not reproach him
for abandoning a man like John ;    and we know of no
obligation  that he owed to  Philip.   They had been
playing  a  round  game,  and he had lost,  and that
was all.
There is a good story,—a mediaeval anecdote,—about
this residence of Hugh V. at Cambray.  We welcome it
in the pages of an old French chronicler, published by
* Hist, des Gaules, uhi sup.
t Dugdale.  Cart, 5 Job. Record, p. 1D8,
 - 192 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             179
Michel,* for  its  sprightly little  bit  of humour in  the
midst of the dust and din of old wars.   Hugh, it seems,
was riding round the town one day, and observed to an
honest bourgeois, who did  not  know him, " Ciertes,
moult a biele  cite  en Cambray "  {" A fine  city  this
Cambray of yours "), with the good-natured condescen-
sion becoming an old baron.   " Ciertes, sire," was the
answer, " it  is  a fine  city and a good ;   but it has one
too bad custom !"  (" JElle a trop tnauvais coustwine I")
" What is that?" asked Hugh,  "Sire," said the honest
bourgeois, " there is not under heaven a thief or traitor
that it  does not receive " (" Sous del na larron na
trahitour Mele ne recet ").    " There was much laughter
in many places at  this,"  the chronicler adds, for  the
bourgeois was " simple Jiomme," and did not know that
he had said a jjood thing, much less that he would have
the honour of being quoted in the nineteenth century !
How one tries to picture to  oneself Hugh riding home
to  dinner, and chewing the  cud, half  mirthful,  half
melancholy, of the unconscious burgher's joke.
Hugh now remained for  some time  in  Germany,
while Normandy was being conquered by Philip, and
the lands which his ancestors had held for three cen-
turies, since the days of Eudes, the sea-roving follower
of Rollo, were beingpermanently annexed to the French
*  " Histoire des Dues de Normandie, et des Rois d'Angleterre, "  p.
92 :   <iuotedin Record, p. 138, 139.
N 2
 - 193 - 
ISO        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
crown.   In 1204, Philip guarantees to various peoples,
including those on the lands of Hugh de Gournay, their
franchises and customs *   He had taken Gournay, in
the district of Brai, into his ownhands, and the Register
of the Fiefs, madeby his order, still exists in the " Biblio-
thfeque de Roi"  at Paris.   We glanced at the evidence
furnished by this document of the power of the family,
earlier in HughV.'s story.  TheBrai country was covered
by the tenants of the house, who lived  now at  their
halls, and now at Gournay, when performing their ser-
vices.   Watch and ward, castle-guard andhorse-service,
rents in money, rents in kind, all kept up the strength
and enriched the exchequer of the chief.   It must have
been with a gloomy feeling that Hughthought ofall this,
and of the woods in which he had hunted as a boy, in his
exile  at  Cambray.   But the doom had fallen, and in
one more generation, the male line itself (cadets always
excepted)  was  destined  to  expire,   Hugh V,  mean-
while  was  living,  we  may well  suppose,  in  very
diminished splendour, partly, it is believed, on property
which he had inherited from his mother Millicent de
Coucy.f  That he had a family at this time who pro-
bably shared his  retirement, we know from a charter
which he executed just  before  his  ruin.   The date of
this is  1202, and its  object to  make a grant to  the
* Depping, " Hist, de la Normandie," ii.  454.
t Supplement to Record, p, 759.
 - 194 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.            181
Abbey of  Fecamp.*   He there  speaks  of  his  wife
Juliana, his  boys, and heirs.   Juhana was one of the
Dampmartins,  a  race  known on both  sides  of  the
Channel, and allied to the houses of Boulogne, Coucy,
Montmorency, and others even of higher rank.f
Hugh's sun was not destined to go down altogether
in  cloud.  He attracted  the attention,  and evidently
commanded the respect of Otho, King of the Romans,
afterwards the Emperor Otho IV.   This great poten-
tate interceded with John for him, and that John had
any very serious ground of complaint we are inclined to
doubt from Hugh's not being taken up by Philip,   The
letter of the English king, in which he forgives  the
baron his malevolentia, and permits him to pass freely
to England with his wife and children, is  still  extant,
bearing date  1205.|   Hugh was to  return  into  his
homage, and may be looked on from this time as  an
Englishman.   That he had never  been in  England
before is  by no means probable ;   he had been a baron
of England by his possessions there till  his forfeiture
;
but the greater part of his life  had clearly been spent
on the  continent, and the people and their language
would be quite unfamiliar to  him.  We find the king
restoring his English estates to  him, or granting him
* Supplement to Record, p. 756.
t Pedigree iu the great genealogical work of Pere Anselm, viii.  401.
X Rot. Pari. m. ii.  p. 57 ;   Record, p.  139.
 - 195 - 
182        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
new ones*  With the names of some of these,, Maple-
durham,  Gurney,  Caistor,  Cautley,  Kimberley,  the
reader has been made acquainted before.   They con-
stituted the Enghsh barony of Gournay, which existed
independently  of the original  Norman barony,  and
which survived the separation between Normandy and
England for some years,—in fact, till  the death of the
last  direct  male, Hugh VI., whose life will be noticed
presently.
We should have hailed with great pleasure the name
of GOURNAY amongst the barons of the Charter ;   above
all, in the list of the twenty-five appointed to enforce
its  observance, and  of  whom D'Albini and  the  two
Mowbrays were connected with or descended from the
Gournay family.   But neither Hugh V. nor any son of
his appears in that immortal roll,  among the Bigods,
Bohuns, Marshalls, De Lacys, De Clares, whose names
have long vanished  from the  Peerage  of  England.
Their diminished grandeur—though they perhaps still
ranked with the harones majores—may help to account
for this.  But Hugh V., who owed the decent prosperity
of his old age to the king, probably thought it his duty
to remain in harmony with him.  The few notices we
possess of his  latter years exhibit him as possessing
the  king's  confidence.   He was one  of  his  sureties,
when he betrothed his daughter Joanna to Geoffrey de
* Claus. 7 Joh., p.  65 ;    9 Joh. p. 87 ;    Bloniefield's  " Xorfolk."
 - 196 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             183
Lusignan ;    and in  1214, he was sheriff of Bucks and
Beds, and accompanied him to Poitou.   He died there
on the  9th September that year, as we know by the
date of his obit-day at Bellosanne ;    and was probably
buried in the Cathedral of Rouen, the resting-place of
Rollo, and no doubt of his  ancestor Eudes, but where
no Gournay Lord of the Pays de Brai was ever to be
laid again.
Hugh Y.  had a sobriquet,  as was common in  old
times.   He was nicknamed The Cuckoo, but for what
reason we are unable to  guess.   Much of the rough
humour of the Middle Ages down to  Rabelais'  days,
turned upon the marital relation and its  mishaj)s, but
no scandal is preserved in this respect about our baron
or his spouse, the high-born Dampmartin.  His children
by that lady were,
—
Gerard—named,  of  course,  after  his  ancestor  the
Crusader.   He disappears from record, after the death
of his father :     perhaps pre-deceased him.
Hugh, his  heir.   We shall  deal with  him,  as  the
last direct male of this line, in our next chapter.
Millicent.   This lady—christened no doubt after her
grandmother of the House of Coucy—made two mar-
riages :   first with Almaric Count of Evreux, uncle to the
famous Simon de Montfort Earl of Leicester ;    secondly,
with William de Cantelupe.   She had no issue by her
first husband.  By her second, she was mother of Saint
 - 197 - 
184        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
Thomas the canonized Bishop of Hereford, and of Julia,
the wife of Sir Robert de Tregoz*
If it be fair, as we think it  is, always to give some
honour to families for the memorable men that spring
from  their  daughters,  and  not  only for  those who
inherit the name ;   then, the House of Gournay may
justly pride itself on the good Bishop just mentioned,
the last Englishman canonized by the Holy See.   The
age for believing in miracles wrought by his remains is
gone by.   So far from a tendency to credit everything
miraculous, that of the present age is  to believe that
nothing is so.   But this Saint Thomas was undoubtedly
one of  the most remarkable men of his generation,
quite apart from that wonderful piety,  austerity,  and
charity which made his  name famous and beautiful,
and led a generation more deeply, though more blindly,
spiritual than ours, to dream that there lurked some
holy power in his very bones.   He was a true offshoot
of the stock of the pious Basilia, and Hugh the Monk
of Bee, old friends of Anselm, as has been shown before
;
carrying the lowliness of a pilgi'im into the high places
of the Church, and the courage of the  Crusader into
the  councils  of the State.   We may have a word or
two more to  say of Saint Thomas, in  dismissing his
kinsman  the  sixth  Hugh, when we shall  have to
sketch the group surrounding the Last of Our Barons.
* Dugdale's Baronage, i.  430.
 - 198 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             185
Meanwhile,  let  us  leave  the  friend  of  Cceur-de-
Lion with  a  simple indication  of  his  place  in  the
family circle.    His share in the Third Crusade with
Richard, and the  good opinion  in  which that  king
evidently held him, compel us to recognise in him one
of the bravest and most energetic of the House.  But
the interest of his life clings all around just that early
portion of it ;    and fades away as he advances in years.
The good he did for his place of GoURNAY, and for the
Church, indicates those civilizing and humane instincts,
the  union of  which with the usual feudal gallantry
constitutes, we think, the rjdos of the race, and marks it
out  honourably  in  periods  when  there was greater
excuse for being wild and lawless, cruel or barbarous,
than now.  It  is  not easy,  however,  to  say more in
praise of Hugh V. than this.   His talent deserted him
in the  struggle  of  faction ;     and he fell  from a great
position, without escaping, altogether (as the ijopidarity
of  the  Cambray anecdote  shows),  the  repute  of  a
tergiversation  conspicuous even in  spite  of its  being
partly  excusable.   Still,  we must not,  as  has  been
already urged, be too  hard uj)on him.   His Norman
ruin  was traceable,  originally,  to  a  leaning  to  the
English side of his twofold allegiance ;   a circumstance
that draws one towards him in contemplating English
and French history, since his distant age.   Nor can we
reflect  without pleasure, that the most brilliant deeds
 - 199 - 
186            A NORMAN HOUSE.
of this  baron, as of his jDredecessors, were done under
the English banner ;    and that the  faikire of his at-
tempts to  hold his  ancestral Norman territory at all
events deprived our French rivals of all  future advan-
tage  from  the  services  of one  gifted  race  at  least.
When we boast of our English blood,  we are really
praising, in part, that NovTYian element which enriched
and invigorated it all those ages ago.
France  too—with her  active  and prosperous Nor-
mandy—must not forget the services of that old blood
which fertilized  it  so early.   On the rich plain  that
surrounds  the homely little  " Gournay "  of  our own
day, still  lingers  the blessing of  the good rule that
watched over it  for three hundred of the important
years during which the land was passing out of bar-
barism.   It is not easy to stand on the hill that over-
looks  Rouen, with its  swarming industry and ancient
memories ;       with  the  smoke  of  its  many chimneys
drifting over its  venerable spires ;     and not to  follow
eagerly the winding Seine, and bless the fortune that
connected the city with the Northern Sea.
 - 200 - 
1
 - 201 - 
188        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
cious  and unintelligible,  but it  was conspicuous  and
important.   And though the life  of  Hugh V. termi-
nated unsatisfactorily, he had played a great part under
the banner of Coeur-de-Lion.   But in the  last  male
chief of the line its life  ebbed obscurely away—as the
Khine ends its  long course of historical glory, a quiet
Dutch canal.
We first find Hugh VI. mentioned in the Fine Rolls
of the year 1216, the seventeenth year of King John.*
The fine  he paid was for the recovery of his Norfolk
and Suffolk possessions, which had been in the hands
of the king's enemies, and were now in those of the
king himself.   History knows nothing of Hugh as a
Magna Charta  baron.   But the fact  just  mentioned
shows that he acted with the barons, which is confirmed
by a Close Roll entry of the same year.f   On the 17th
September, according to that entry,  his  Norfolk and
Suffolk fiefs were placed in the hands of John Marshal,
to be held by him until the king and the barons made
peace, and then awarded by judgment of court.   King
John was in  Norfolk about  this very time,  making
Lynn his head-quarters and rendezvous for the eastern
counties.^   The renewed chastisement of Hugh must
have been one of the la^t  acts of the life of the king,
who died at Newark, having imj^rudently indulged in
* Record, p. 184.                         + Ibid.
X Carte's  " History of England, i.  843.
 - 202 - 
A  NORMAN HOUSE.            189
fruit and cider during his illness * a month afterwards.
Next year,  Hugh de  Gournay was still  out  of the
Crown's favour, for his lands were given into the hands
of William de Cantelupe.f  This William, the first  of
the Cantelupes known in England, had been Seneschal
under King John, and now supported the Regency of
William Marshal, Earl of Pembroke, who was Rector
Regis  et  Regni during  the  minority of  Henry III.
The year after this, 1218, another order addressed to
the  sheriffs  of  Norfolk,  Lincoln,  and Bucks,  placed
Hugh's lands in  those  counties in the  charge of the
same de Cantelupe.J  He was Hugh's near relative,
for  his son and  heir,  another William de Cantelupe,
had married Hugh's sister, Millicent, widow of Amaury,
Count of Evreux.  This event had taken place in the
latter years of King John, who had excused the pay-
ment of  200 marks due for  permission to  take the
lady's hand.   The Cantelupes seem to have remained
steady to the side of the monarchy at this troublous
and confused period ;     whereas we scarcely ever  hear
of Hugh de Gournay except as  in  opposition  to the
authority of the central power.   The inner history of
his  proceedings  is  all  dark  to  lis ;    but  it  may be
believed that the Cantelupes exercised  a restraining
influence over him, for in  1222 he again obtained full
* Wendover.                t Record, p. 184.
± Ihid.
 - 203 - 
190        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
seisin of his estates *   Only two years later, " Hugh de
Gournay" is  found under the  king's displeasure  for
being present at  a tournament in  Nottinghamshire,
contrary to  his prohibition.   Tournaments were  dis-
liked by the religious for  religious reasons, and often
by sovereigns  for  political  ones.   In a vision  of the
infernal regions, described by Wendover, the damned
are represented as  tilting  at each other with red-hot
lances.   And statesmen well knew that a tournament,
as in later ages a hunting-party, was often the pretext
for an armed gathering, which might become a revolt.
But the " Hugh de Gournay "  of the tournament in
question seems, from the position of his lands, to have
been a Gournay of Somersetshire—one of that distinct
branch mentioned earlier in  our narrative as  having
been founded after the Conquest by a comrade and
kinsman of " Old Hugh."
Abrief mention of Hugh in the Fine Eolls for 1229
shows that he is  not likely  to  have been rich.   His
father had borrowed a hundred marks from King John
in Poitou ;   and he is  allowed to pay it  by instalments
of  ten  marks a  year—five  at  Easter,  and five  at
Michaelmas.f  He lived for ten years after this, but we
hear no more of him, except that he gave two acres of
land in his manor of Maple-Durham, in Oxfordshire
—
* Record, p.  185.
t Fiue Rolls, Supplement to  Record, p. 767.
 - 204 - 
A NOEMAN HOUSE.             191
apparently  one  of  his  favourite  residences—to  the
convent of Clair Ruissel, in  Normandy.  The tide of
events rolled by.   There was the foolish expedition of
Henry III. to  Brittany.   There was the clamour and
rioting  on account  of  the  engrossing of  fat  English
benefices  by Italian  priests.   There was the  king's
marriage with Eleanor of Provence, followed by bitter
agitation against the foreigners, who, in consequence of
it,  flocked into England.  But the last of the Chiefs of
Gournay was either a mere spectator of the gradual
ripening of things towards the Barons' Wars, or his
action was too insignificant to have left any trace.   He
died in 1239, soon after Simon de Montfort's marriage
with the king's sister, and the very year of the birth of
the great Edward, destined to  redeem the position of
the English monarchy.  It was a year of unusual inte-
rest,  too,  in  his  own family history ;    as that  of the
death of the elder William de Cantelupe in Gascony,*
and of the marriage of the beautiful Mary de Coucy
with Alexander II., King of Scotland.   Mary was the
daughter of Enguerraud, Lord of Coucy,  Hugh VI.'s
second cousin ;   and she became the mother of the last
of the old race of the Scottish  kings.   So numerous
are the threads which join the line of Gournay to those
of the Sovereigns of the Middle Ages !
It will be seen that we have little  material on which
* Matthew Paris.
 - 205 - 
192        THREE HUNDRED YEARS OF
to base an estimate of the character of the Sixth Hugh
de Goiirnay.   The last  of the line is  as dim a figure
from that point of view, as the founder who came into
Normandy with Rollo.   He may have been  a weak
man, or he may only have needed his ancestors' oppor-
tunities.   However it was, he has left a mere name in
the pedigree.   And though many a man of whom the
same is true has yet (as we ought always to remember
in estimating the value of an aristocracy)  done good
service  by simply discharging in  obscurity the daily
duties of his generation, we are not content with such
merit  in  illustrious  lines.    The House of  Gournay
had now stood for three hundred years and more, not
in power only, but in splendour and fame.   The misty
image of the founder who stood by the side  of Rollo
cannot be  recognised.   But we have  seen  Gournay
after  Gournay pass  across  the  historic  stage  on the
greatest  missions ;      to  plant  churches  amongst  the
Norman woods, and make them ring with a new and
nobler melody ;   to conquer with William in England,
and Courthose in Palestine ;    to pray with Anselm, and
fight  under Cceur-de-Lion ;     to wed the  daughters of
houses whose daughters were sought by kings.   It was
hard for the descendant of such men to live on a manor
in Oxfordshire a life like that of one of his ancestors'
squires.   One wonders whether the  great  tradition
weighed heavily on him, and pressed his spirits  down
;
 - 206 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             193
or,  whether he  was at  once  the  obscurest  and the
happiest man of the whole line ?
Byhis wife, of whomwe only know that her Christian
name was Matilda,  Hugh VI. left  a  daughter Julia
married  to  William  Lord Bardolf of  \Yormegay in
Norfolk.   Matilda his widow remarried with Roger de
Clifford  of Bridge Sellers  in the county of Hereford.
The Bardolfs continued, for five generations after this,
to be barons of England.  Their male line terminated
in Thomas Lord Bardolf, who died of wounds received
when in insurrection against Henry IV. about 1404.
He left two daughters, Anne, who was twice married
without issue ;   and Joan wife of Sir William Phelip,
a Knight of the Garter, whom some writers assert to
have been created Lord Bardolf by patent,  but who
was never summoned to parliament.*  The daughter
of this  William and Joan, Elizabeth Phehp, married
John Viscount Beaumont, the first  man who bore the
dignity of  Viscount in England.  Their heiress Joan
married John Lord Lovel, through whose two daughters
the representation of the Gournays came to be divided
between  the  Errington-Stapletons,  and  the  Berties
Earl of Abingdon.  The present Lord Beaumont is  the
nearest  representative,  as  descended  from  the  elder
co-heir ;   and the blood of the old barons whose fortunes
* Nicolas, by Courtliopc, p. 40.
 - 207 - 
1'j4          theee hundred yeaes of
we have traced, still lives in the veins of many flourish-
ing English families.
By far the most interesting relation, however, whom
Hugh VI. left  behind him, was his nephew Thomas
de Cantelupe, then a young man of twenty-one, after-
wards  Chancellor  of  Oxford,  Chancellor of England,
and Bishop of Hereford, and who was canonised in the
generation which succeeded him, by Pope John XXII.
He was brought up under his paternal uncle Walter de
Cantelupe Bishop of Worcester, a man of much mark
in that age, and frequently found acting on the barons*
side  in  the  great  struggle  of  Henry III.'s  reign.
But he derived still  more important instruction from
Robert Kilwardby, a famous and learned Dominican,
who before he died, became Archbishop of Canterbury,
and a Cardinal.   He studied at Paris, at Orleans, and
at Oxford, of which he was for some time Chancellor,
before  being  Chancellor  of  the  kingdom  during  a
portion  of  the  latter  years  of  Henry III.    Nei-
ther,  however,  his  learning,  nor  his  admioistrative
talent,  distinguished him so much, as  a  deep-seated
religious  enthusiasm,  a saintly  beavity  of  character,
which radiated from the inner life of the man, over the
whole circle  of his influence.   It was the spirit  of his
maternal ancestors, Hugh the Monk of Bee and Basilia,
heated to a sevenfold  heat of spiritual fire.    All the
deeper  feelings  of  man in  those  days were  readily
 - 208 - 
A NORMAN HOUSE.             195
kindled into passions.   We are told that St. Thomas do
Cantelupe, having when young taken a vine-prop out
of a vineyard in France to prop up his window with,
punished  himself for  the  offence  by a seven  years'
penance.   He treated the poor as his brothers, received
them at  his  table,  and shared with them his  purse.
His thoughts dwelt in an atmosphere of prayer ;    and
his  body was subdued by frequent vigils,  and almost
constant pain.   So, when after a long life of purity and
kindness and holy zeal, the good old prelate's bones were
laid in Hereford Cathedral, stories flew ever more and
more about, of  his transcendent merits, and miracles
attributed  to  him were  reported  in  large  numbers.
When his canonisation was before the Holy See, which
pronounced for it in 1810, "four hundred and twenty-
nine miracles " were solemnly accepted as having been
wrought through his merits.   It is impossible to believe
such things.   But it is also impossible to despise them.
The truth is that in those early ages, the lines between
the visible and invisible worlds were very faintly drawn
;
and the constant action  of one world upon the other
was a fundamental belief.   The thousand supernatural
stories of the Chronicles reveal to us a people to whom
the  idea of miracles was as  familiar as the faith  in
God ;   and whose whole existence, if it was made more
terrible, was also  made more glorious, by the perpetual
presence  of  unseen  and spiritual  powers.   Wo may
 - 209 - 
106             A NORMAN HOUSE.
pity their  ignorance ;     but  we may also  envy their
faith.
Two famihes of Gournays represented the name in
England when the death of Hugh VI. put an end to
the main or chief line.   One was settled in Somerset-
shire, by independent descent since the Conquest.  The
other was settled in Norfolk, having been founded by
Walter, that younger son of Gerard the Crusader, who
has already been noticed in these pages.   Both were
destined to play a considerable part in the subsequent
history of the country.
 - 210 - 
APPENDIX.
PEDIGKEE OF THE LORDS OF GOURNAY.
The following Pedigree of the Barons of Gournay mil assist
the reader to have a clear notion of their order of succession to
each other, as narrated in the foregoing history :
—
EuDES, the follower of Rollo.
(Chap. I.)
I
Hugh, the fortifier of Gournay.
(Chap. II.)
I
Renaud.=Alberarda.
Mentioned in a
charter, A.D,
9S9-996.
(Chap. II.)
Hugh I.
(Chap. II.)
Gautier de la Ferte.
I
Hugh de la Ferte.
1
Hugh de la Fert^.
(In whom this line ended.)
Hugh II., or "Old Hugh."
(Chap. II.)
I
A.D. 1036-1074,
Hugh III. t='Basilia Flaitel.
(Chap. III.)
Died a monk of
Bee, circa a.d. 1093.
Gerard THE =Edith, daughter
Crusader.  \               of Earl Warren,
(Chap. III.)       by Gundreda,
Died circa A.D.   daughter of
1104.             the Concj^ueror.
 - 211 - 
198                APPENDIX.
(Chap. IV.)
Died at a
great a^e,
A.D. 1180.
Hugh IV. =(1st). Beatrice de  A dan.,       Gundreda,  Walter.
Verraandois.       m. Talbot,  (la belle
(2nd.) Milliceut                  Gondree),
de Coucy.                      'm- Ni^el
D'Albini.
iiuGH V. =Julia de Dampmaetin.
The companiou
of Coeur-de-
Lion.
(Chap. V.)
Died A.D. 1214.
Hugh VI. =Matilda.
(Chap. VI.)
I
Died 1239.
|
Julia. =William.
Lord Bardolf.
YOUNGER BRANCHES OF THE HOUSE OF GOURNAT.
Our history, as the reader lias  seen, only professes to deal
-with the trunk-line of the Barons of Gournay, who had taken
part in nearly all great public transactions from the reign of
Edward the Confessor to that of Henry the Third, in which
they ended in an heiress.   But though the direct maleline failed
in the person of Hugh VI., branches of the family continued to
exist  in  England, and descendants exist  still.    Thus, there
were Gournays in Somersetshire, founded by one Nigellus, who
figures in the Exon Domesday. Eva de Gournay, who repre-
sented this Nigel in the thirteenth centuiy, married the heir of
the barons of Harpetre ;   and their son Eobert, one of the most
powerful men of the West in Henry the Third's reign, was the
ancestor of these Somersetshire families of the name of Gour-
nay.  The Englishcombe branch was the best known of these,
havingproduced Sir Thomasde Gournay, one of the mui-derers of
Edward the Second ;    and his son, the Sir Matthew de Gournay,
of Froissart, who did something to redeem his house from the
infamy of that deed by his gallantry in the wars of Edward the
Thiid and the Black Prince.  Joan de Gournay, the heii-ess of
 - 212 - 
.             APPENDIX.                199
the chief line of Somersetsliire Gournays, married, in 14 Eich.
II.,  George  de  la  More, from whom the Earls of Egmont
descend.  Hence, there is a great deal of information about these
Gournays in that curious book, the " History of the House of
Yvery," some notice  of which will be found in mypaper on
*'  British Family Histories," reprinted in the present volume
from myEsmysfrom the Quarterly Review,
While the Goiu-nays of the West of England are represented
by the Earls of Egmont, those of the Eastern counties are still
represented by male descendants, the head of whom takes the
designation of " Gurney of Keswick."  The ancestor of this
family was Walter de Gournay, a landholder in Suffolk of the
time of Stephen.  Our reasons for believing this Walter to have
been a son of the Gerard de Gournay of the First Crusade, have
been indicated  already,  at page 117.   His son William held
lands which had belonged to Gerard by the tenure of parage,—
a clear proof that he was of the Gournay blood ;    and the dates
show that he could not be of the Gournay blood in any remoter
degree.  William de Goiu-nay's descendants became Gournays,
Gurnays, or Gurneys, of Swathings and West Barsham, in Nor-
folk, and existed there for many generations as Norfolk squires,
whose succession and alliances may be seen in the excellent
county history of Blomefield, and elsewhere.   Sir John Goiu'nay
was sheriff of Norfolk and-Suffolk  in  1399, and knight of the
shire for Norfolk in the Parliament of 1404.   The family, like
other Norfolk families, had a town house in Norwich, in which
they passed the winter, and as generations rolled by, and the
estates of the house of West Barsham diminished, its younger
sons began to seek their fortunes by entering into trade in the
ancient county town so long distinguished as a seat  of com-
merce.  Amongthese was a Francis Giu-ney, of James the First's
time, the direct progenitor of the present family of Keswick.
He was a sixth son of Henry Gurney, Esq.,  of West Barsham,
in whose will he is  mentioned ;    and he and his children are
entered in the Herald's Visitation of the City of Loudon for
1633.   He had begun Life  in Norwich as an agent for some of
 - 213 - 
200                APPENDIX.
tlie Norfolk county gentlemen, andbanker, andhad afterwards
established himself in the parish of St. Benet Finck, in London,
as a merchant, and a member of the Merchant Taylors' Com-
pany.  The line was earned on by his  second  son,  Francis
Gurnay, of Maldon in Essex, mentioned in the Herald's Visita-
tion for Essex in 1664,  whose eldest son, John Gourney, or
Gm-ney, settled at Norwich.  This John Gurney, the first  of
thefamily to join the Society of Friends, realised a considerable
fortune  in commerce.   His  son,  Joseph Gurney, acquired
Keswick, and was great-grandfather of the late Hudson Gur-
ney, Esq., F.R.S., of Keswick, the chief of the name.  Verily,
one family,  like  " one man," plays  " many parts"  in  its
time
!
 - 214 - 
BEITISH FAMILY HISTOEIES.
HE re-action in favour of what may be called
the literature of feudalism, which has been
going on ever since the publication of " Percy's
Reliques," has as yet done but little towards
supplying us with good histories  of private  families.
Wehave had ballads, diaries, collections of papers almost
innumerable.  The invaluable writings of  Scott have
everywhere made the ancient life  of Europe far more
intelligible  to us,  and more affectionately regarded by
us, than it was a hundred years ago.   Indeed there was
need of  some such influence,  after  the  predominant
tone of the eighteenth century.   The worldly wits of
that period, though they had, among their unquestion-
able merits, much good sense and good nature, seem to
have  lost  both when they meddled with  their  own
ancestors.   If  they  wanted an heroic  example, they
 - 215 - 
20J           BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
were  willing  enough to  go  to  Plutarch ;      but  they
thought,  with  Gray,  that  the  age  of  Froissart  was
" barbarous."   Voltaire treated the Crusaders as knaves
and madmen.  Horace Walpole sneered at Sir Philip
Sidney.   Lord Chesterfield, forgetful of the saying cf
that maternal grandfather, Lord Halifax, from whom
he derived so much of his peculiar wit, that " the con-
teirpt of scutcheons is  as much a disease in this age as
the over-valuing them was in former times "—delighted
in ridiculing pedigree and heralds.   One of his cleverest
essays in the World was against birth.   He hung up
two portraits, "Adam de Stanhope" and "Eve de Stan-
hope," among his ancestors.   And he said, with a great
deal of humour, to a herald of that time, " You foolish
man, you don't understand your own foolish business I
"
Voltaire, Walpole, and Chesterfield represent thousands
of inferior  minds ;     and this  way of talking on such
subjects was long a predominant fashion.   The higher
class of wits have now given up ridiculing the tradi-
tions of Europe, though the taste for joking on the old
text "Stemmata quid faciunt?" is still prevalent among
those Cockneys who fancy that a sentiment which has
survived the ridicule of Juvenal is  likely to fall before
the wags of the nineteenth century !          People are more
ready, however, in  spite of these  deriders,  to  inquire
what good family histories we possess than they were
some time ago;  partly because of the taste for anti-
 - 216 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        203
quities diffused by Scott and others, partly because the
feelinof  against such studies was carried so much too
far, and partly because, after some generations of expe-
rience, we beofin to see that our modern men are not so
superior to the ancient gentlemen as they often loudly
proclaim themselves to be.
The uses  of good family  histories  are  many and
various.   In the first  place, they are excellent illustra-
tions  of general history, inasmuch as the history of a
few families of a certain rank is  the history of their
whole  times.   Then they embody a vast  number of
those personal details  and bits of local  colour which
help the narrator to describe an age, and the reader to
feel  as if  he had lived in  it.    They have a human, a
tender, and a personal interest.   Their poetic value is
not to be forgotten ;   that by which they enable us to
trace character from generation to generation, and touch
the mind with admiration or  awe as it  watches the
conduct of a high race in the varying events of suc-
cessive ages.   To the families themselves such histories
are of the highest importance, and by them they ought
to  be  treasured  as  were by the  old  Romans those
laudationes, some of  which were  extant  in  Cicero's
time, and were used at family funerals, and which they
preserved " ad memoriam laudum domesticarum et  ad
illustrandam nobilitatem suam."   That robust people,
we need scarcely say,  set the highest store on family
 - 217 - 
204         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
traditions; and when tliey yielded their political liberty
at last, the truth of these traditions asserted itself—for
the gi-eatest man the change produced came of one of
their oldest houses.   It is  as well to remember this by
no means irrelevant fact; since we cannot for an instant
admit the justice  of the vulgar prejudice that such
fundamental truths as that of race can cease to be true
because the conditions under which they exhibit them-
selves are changed.  And we say so hi limine, that we
may vindicate our subject from the suspicion of being
merely of antiquarian curiosity.
In former days, it was the custom in most families to
keep a kind of register, wherein the head of the house
entered from time to  time such notes respecting its
members as seemed good to him.  Fine, quaint, pious
old documents they were, and as different in moral as
in physical colour from the more business-like records
which now stand in  their stead.   Their object  espe-
cially was to keep the rising generation in mind of the
virtues of their  progenitors, and to teach the heir to
avoid, above all,  becoming lahes generis,  one of the
greatest  curses  that can befal  a man, as  Sir  Philip
Sidney's father observes to him.  To be sure, literary
merit was not a characteristic of these works.   If they
soared above being registers, it  was usually at the risk
of the gravity of remote descendants.  Our early genea-
logical  and  heraldic  literature  is  perhaps  the  most
 - 218 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        205
curious we possess.   " Here encleth," says Caxton, com-
mending to the reader a book of a similar class in 1484,
" the book of the Ordre of  Chivahy, which book is
translated out of French into English, at a I'equest of
a gentyl and noble  esquire, by me William Caxton."
.   .   .   .    "Which book is  not requisite to every common
man to have, but to noble gentylmen."  In the " Boke
of St. Alban's," two years later,  we are informed that
Japhet was a gentleman, but that Cain and Ham were
churls, and that the Virgin Mary was a princess of coat-
armour.  One principal object of such treatises was to
teach the reader how a " perfit gentylman " might be
known from  an "imperfect  clown."   Indeed  old  Sir
John Feme, the author of the " Blazon of Gentrie "
(1586), hurls defiance at an imaginary "churl" on his
very title-page, by describing his work as " compiled by
John Feme, gentleman, for the instruction of all gentle-
men bearers of arms—whom, and none other, this work
concerneth."   Anumber of " privileges of the gentry
"
—unknown, of  course,  to  the  law  of the  land—are
usually strung together in  old  heraldic  books, along
with facts about lions at which the Zoological Society
would burst with laughter,  and traditions  about the
assumption of shields which would cause merriment in
Hanwell.  No wonder that a similar  oddity extends
itself to early family histories,  such as  in time came
to  be written at formal length,  instead of the mere
 - 219 - 
206         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
registers  in  question.   No wonder that  a  thorough-
going ancient—for the " ancients "  are modern in tone
compared with these genealogical men—loved to begin
with  the  patriarchs ;      while  Urquhart of  Cromartie
carried off the palm by fairly deducing his lineage from
Adam without a break, in that " Promptuary of Time"
which still,  we believe, fetches some three guineas at
sales  as  a curiosity.   The Emperor Maximilian once
took a turn in a similar direction, and had a mania for
being traced to Noah.  Sages reasoned, and counsellors
coaxed in vain, till  the cure came from his cook, who
was also  no common buffoon.   " As it  is,"  said  that
functionary, " I reverence you as a kind of god ;    but if
you insist  on being derived from Noah, I must hail
your majesty as a cousin."
A good old family history invariably begins with a
family legend.   Like nations, families  have their my-
thical  period.   The first  man of the line is  generally
the mythical personage.   Sometimes he is  a gigantic
reflection  of the  descendant,  like  the Spectre of the
Brocken—a king, or a demigod, or a wizard.   Some-
times the same love of wonder takes just the opposite
turn ;   and he is  a poor reaper or a forester, raised to
wealth and fame by an act of romantic heroism.   Take
the " History of the Houses of Douglas and Angus," by
David Hume of Godscroft.   Could we do better than
begin with that Edinburgh folio of 1644, which was a
 - 220 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.         207
first favourite with Sir Walter Scott ?    Godscroft was,
like  his  illustrious  namesake,  a  cadet  of  the  great
family of Hume, itself  a branch of the still  gi-eater
family  of  Dunbar.   He flourished  in  the  time  of
James VI.   Here is the account which he gives of the
celebrated tradition about the First Douglas.   It is  a
pretty fair specimen of an old manner of telling an old
story—a feudal fable  in  the language of  a pedantic
age:—
'
'  According, then, to tlie  constant and generall tradition of
men thus was their originall.   Dniing the reign of Soloathius,
King of Scotland, one Donald Bane (that is, Donald the White
or Fair) haviuii'  possest himself of  all  the Western Islands
(called Ebudes or Hebrides), and intitling himself King thereof,
aspired to set the crown of Scotland also upon his head.  For
effectuating whereof he gathered a great army, wherein he con-
fided so much that he set foot on the nearest continent of Scot-
land, to wit, the province of Kintyre and Lome.  The King's
Lievetenants, Dudtal and Culen, made head against him with
such forces  as they could assemble on the sudden.  Donald,
trusting to the number of his men, did bid them battell, and so
prevailed at first that he made the King's army give ground,
and had now almost gained the day, and withall the kingdome
that lay at stake, both in his own conceit and the estimation of
his enemies.  In the mean time a certain nobleman, disdaining
to see so bad a cause have such good successe, out of his love to
his prince and desire of honour, accompanied with his sons and
followers, made an onset upon these prevailing rebels with such
courage and resolution that he brought them to a stand, and
then heartening the discouraged fliers, both by word and ex-
ample, he turns the chase, and instead of victory they got a
defeat ;     for Donald's men being overthiown, and fled, he himself
was slain.   The fact was so much the more noted as the danger
 - 221 - 
208         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
had been great,  and the victory unexpected.  Therefore the
King being desirous to know of lievetenants the particulars of
the fight, and inqiiiiing for the author of so valiant an act, the
nobleman being thene in person, answer was made unto the
King in the Iinsh tongue (which was then only in use), Sholto
Du glasse ;   that is  to  say. Behold yonder black, grey man
!
pointing at him with the finger, and designinghim. byhis colour
and complexion, without more ceremony or addition of titles of
honour.  The lung, considering his service and merits in pre-
serving his crowne, and delighted with that homelydesignation,
rewarded him royally with many great lands, and imposed upon
him the name of Douglas, which hath continued with his poste-
rity untni this day.  And from him the shire and county which
hegot is called stil Duglasdale;  the river that waterethit Douglas
Eiver ;    the castle whichhe built therein Douglasse Castle.  This
narration, besides that it is generally received, and continued as
a truth delivered from hand to hand, is also confirmed by a cer-
tain manuscrijit of great antiquity, extant in our days in the
hands of one Alexander Macdufi'e of Tillysaul, who dwelt at
Moore alehouse, near Strathbogie."
The last touch about Mr. Macduffe of the alehouse
contrasts quaintly with the poetic incident of the dark-
gray man.  But George Chalmers of the "Caledonia"
is  a better  authority than Mr. Macduffe.  That labo-
rious  antiquary  was as  fatal  to  these  old  spectral
figures, in which our ancestors believed, as a policeman
is to a ghost.   He turned his lantern on the corners of
gray castles, and away flew their giant shadows.  In
plain  English,  he  produces  a  charter  from Arnald,
Abbot of  Kelso,  1147—1160, granting lands on the
Duo^las-water—" Theobaldo  Flamatico "—to  Theobald
 - 222 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        209
the Fleming—and adds, "As this  grant of Arnald to
Theobald is the first hnk of the chain of title-deeds to
Duglasdale, this family must relinquish their original
domain  or  acknowledge  their  Flemish  descent."*
Chalmers took a kind of savage pleasure in demolishing
a tradition, and he handled tne descent of the Stewarts
from Banquo in  the same way as he does the story
before us.   But the moral influence of such traditions
is  not shaken when the literary  form is  broken up.
That they were ever believed is the best proof that the
family was great and illustrious.   An imaginary hero
was thought the natural progenitor of a real living one,
just as the Scandinavians derived their kings from gods
because their actions were godlike.   We may add here,
that several  similar legends appear to have been in-
vented to account for the arms of families.   The Hays
do not carry three escutcheons because three  heroes
saved a Celtic king long before arms were dreamed of,
but these having been carried from remote ages, the
myth was formed for their explication.   And so with
regard to stories of a similar kind not exactly heraldic.
The Worm of Somerville, of which we shall presently
hear more, and the Lambton Worm, are plainly incre-
dible.   The truth is,  they are cases in which symbols
* It has been shown, however, since Chalmers' days (see  " Origines
Parochiales" in roc.) that the lands were not the same.  The present
opinion of antiquaries is that the Douglases had the same origin as tlie
Murrays.
P
 - 223 - 
210         BEITISH FAMILY HISTOEIES.
have come to be taken for facts, owing to the realistic
tendency of the popular mind;    and in the course of
ages what was an abstract fancy has become a concrete
bit of history.   What they really prove is the antiquity
of the famiHes.   In the existence of the " dark gray
man," we see how truly great the Douglases were in
the thirteenth  and fourteenth centuries by a legend
assigning  their  origin  to  the  eighth.   Godscroft  is
careful  to  remark with regard  to  his  time-honoured
tale, that " this our narration doth better deserve credit
than those of Momulus, Numa, and Theseus, seeing
that it  contains nothing that is  impossible."   He was
evidently  anxious  to  prove  the  Douglases  a  native
Scottish family likewise
;
probably because the Stewarts
were then universally considered to be so.   Yet nothing
can  be more certain than that nearly all  the  great
families which figure in the history of Scotland since
the authentic period were Norman, Saxon, or Danish
—
as  the Bruces,  Ramsays, Lindsays, Maules, Maxwells,
Dunbars, and scores  of  others—a few were Flemish,
like the Douglases, or said to be Hungarian, like the
Lesleys,—even the heads of some Highland clans were
plainly Norman—and for Celtic families we must go to
the distant hills of the north, or to the remote south-
west, where the M'Dowalls, sprung from the old reguli
of Galloway, have long survived the abolition of Celtic
usages and the extinction of the Celtic tongue.   With
 - 224 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        211
regard to the Stewarts, tliere seems no reason to doubt
that they came from the great Norman family of Fitz-
Alan, whose heu'ess in England carried their represen-
tation to the Mowbrays, and so to the Howards, towards
the close of the fourteenth century.
However, no one is likely to regret the disappearance
of this shadowy warrior or  that romantic reaper, who
reflects that a stout Teuton flourishing circa 1100 is as
substantial an ancestor as gentleman could wish.  From
the influx of these brave men dates the real history of
Scotland.   They brought with  them talent,  courage,
and organisation ;     Scotland  became a  kingdom with
definite bounds and a definite character, having found
right  leaders.   In the long course of years, from the
defeat of the  English till  the  establishment  of  the
Reformation, what a part the Douglases played !        A
Douglas received the last  words of Robert Bruce ;     a
Douglas spoke the epitaph of John Knox.  They were
celebrated in the prose of Froissart and the verse of
Shakspeare.  They have been sung by antique Barbour
and by Walter Scott, by the minstrels of Otterbourne
and  by Robert Burns.   Indeed,  it   is   a  matter  of
general  consent  among our Scottish neighbours that
the Douglases are their most illustrious family.   Even
a Glasgow radical warms at the name.
We must not, therefore, be hard on Hume of Gods-
croft if we find him possessed by that zeal for the race
 - 225 - 
212         BEITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
which is  the first  characteristic of a family historian.'
''I think," says he, in his  old-fashioned way, "it will
not be amisse to  place here before the doore (as  it
were) and entire into this discoin-se and treatise (like a
signe or ivie-bushe before an imie) an old verse which
is common in men's mouths
—
" So many, so good as of the Donglases have heen.
Of one sir-name were ne'er in Scotland seen.
"
And he proceeds to give us a dissertation in  proof of
this, under four heads:—1.  Antiquity; 2.  Nobility; 3.
Greatness ;    4.  Valour.  What he means to  show is,
that though certain  families  excelled  them in  some
particular point, no one family united so many different
claims.   " The Grahams have produced individuals as
eminent," he would argue, "but they were never so
powerful.   The Cummins were earlier great, but they
have  not  lasted.    We .are  more ancient  than  the
Hamiltons, and more renowned than any of you."   He
would  be  a  bold  man who ventured  to  deny this
general pre-eminence.
Every historic family has in broad terms its  popular
renown, which can be traced through different genera-
tions by the favourite epithets of the singers.   So in
Scotland—the lightsome Lindsays, gay Gordons, gallant
Grahams, are all familiar expressions—not so accurate
as we could wish in an age which delights in subtle
delineations of character and refinements on motives
 - 226 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.         213
and counter-motives, but generally true, all  the  same.
The " doughty Douglas "
is  a phrase which no doubt
seems at first  the mere jingle of an alliteration; and
yet, when we look at the history of the family, we shall
find that it  is  admirably expressive.   They always had
force of character—a massive emphasis of " pluck "
—
such as  the word implies.   The first  famous Douglas
was a "William the Hardy."  Two generations  later
came an Archibald the  Gi^im.   Later still  came Bell
the Cat, with his terrible decision and rapidity of stroke.
You feel  at  once  that  they were  strong, emphatic,
weighty characters ;    and it seems natural to learn that
physically they were stalwart  and tough.   Many in-
stances  show  that  physical  and  intellectual  vigour
usually  went together in  early  times—as  in  Charle-
magne, William the Norman, and R,ol)ert  Bruce—and
that the true old baron was our "premier " and "cham-
pion of England" in one !         To such a mass of manhood
as  an early  Douglas  men naturally  gravitated.   No
family was so loyally loved and obeyed :
—
"   Douglas,   Douglas,
Tender and true !   "
exclaims the author of the "Buke of the Howlat," a
faithful retainer who wrote about 1453.  Their followers
flocked to the Bloody Heart against  their  own sove-
reign as naturally as they had flocked to it  against the
princely  Percys, the  Cliffords,  Nevills,  and Umphra-
 - 227 - 
214        BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
villes.   There was a time when they could raise thirty
thousand men.  They made the crown itself a doubtful
possession, and fell  before nothing less  than a king's
dagger and a king's army.
Yet, if the Douglases were pre-eminently " doughty,"
they produced men also of the gentler and more purely
chivalric type.   Such was he who is remembered as the
Good Sir  James, the  comrade of Bruce in his  wars,
when
—
" Edward the Bruce, was there als way,
Thomas Eandell and Hew de la Hay,
And good Sir David the Barclay,"
and the friend to whom he committed it,  to carry his
heart to the Holy Land.  Godscroft is  not so happy in
his  accounts of the  very early men as of later  ones.
He is occasionally apt to be long-winded and tedious
—
to prose about " the noteable example of that worthy
Fabius Maximus."  An old editor justly objects to him
" the number and prolixity of his reflections."   He is at
his  best  when he forgets  his  classical  learninef  and
narrates from his heart ;   and at such times, full of the
greatness of the family, he becomes delightfully quaint.
He then describes one of them as " a true member of
such a house well retaining that natural sap sucked
from his  predecessors  of  valour  and of love  to  his
country."   Speaking of the sixth Earl of Douglas, he
says, " he was of the old spirit of the ancient nobility
;
 - 228 - 
BEITISH FAMILY HISTOKIES.        215
he could  not  serve  or  obey but  whom he  ought."
" They must have muffles that would catch such a Cat,"
he adds.   " The raising of new and mean men was the
thing  that  he  and his  house  did  ever  dislike  very
much," is  a remark of his, in speaking of the eighth
Earl, which brings the  Claudian family to mind, and
shows us how great power bred great haughtiness, and
the  house  became unfit  to  be  quiet  subjects.   The
eighth Earl went to the Jubilee at Rome in 1450—"as
his enemies did interpret it,  to show his greatness to
foreign princes and nations.   There went with him in
company," Godscroft goes on, " a great number of noble-
men and gentlemen ;    such as the Lord Hamilton, Gray,
Salton,  Seton,  Oliphant,  and  Forbes ;     also  Calder,
Urquhart,  Campbell,  Eraser,  Lawders  of  Cromarty,
Philorth, and Bass, knights, with many other gentle-
men of great account."   We may see the hold which
such a family had on their tenants from the fact about
the  same Earl  in  our  next  quotation.   During his
absence, " the king sent W. Sinclair, Earl of Orkney, to
intromit  with  his  goods and rents  in  Galloway and
Douglas to satisfy complainers therewith.   But it  was
to no purpose, for he was eluded and almost mocked by
the tenants."   This loyalty to the old families it  was
that preserved so  long those beautiful ballads Avhich
embody the  sentiments of  ancient  Scotland.   In  no
country had the aristocracy more power ;   in none are
 - 229 - 
216         BKITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
they  more respected.   To this  day,  amidst  all  the
changes going forward,  when names  that  defied  a
thousand battles are falling before the iron trade, the
old families enjoy a popular affection which money can
never buy, and which covers their hoary antiquity with
a fresh verdure such as spring brings regularly to their
ancestral trees.
With this William, the eighth Earl of Douglas, fell
the greatness of the Black Douglases, the descendants
of the Good Sir James.  He was stabbed by James II.
in 1452.  His brother died a monk.  Galloway, where
the  ruins of  their  castle  of  Thrieve  are  still  worth
seeing, was annexed to the Crown.  The Red Line of
the Earls of Angus, which had sprung off the stock in
the person of a son of the first  Earl of Douglas, now
represented the power of the house ;    and they were
worthy of the honour.  One of them had married a
daughter of  Robert III.    They sent  two  hundred
gentlemen of the name to die at Flodden.  The Regent
Morton, who played such a conspicuous  part in  the
sixteenth  century,  was one  of  their  cadets.   Their
descendants became Dukes of Hamilton by marrying
the  heiress  of  line ;      and  in  rank,  connection,  and
possessions, the family may still  vie with the proudest
in Europe.
Godscroft, we have said, is most readable when he is
most simple and unpretending ;   and no doubt the pass-
 - 230 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.         217
ages which he thought least  of  are  those  in  which
lovers  of  Scottish  history  dow take  most  delight.
There is a certain charm of homeliness about him when
he tells  us of the  old  proverbs by which the family
expressed their love of freedom :     " Better hear the lark
sing than the mouse cheep !   "  or " Loose and living !   "
for an ancient race has its  own proverbs, as it has its
own ghost ;     its  own oaths, even ;     or its  own personal
characteristics.   There is a " Hamilton chin," which the
curious in portraits know, as  well as  our progenitors
knew that the Drummonds were famous for their fair
women, or the Ruthvens for dabbling in unholy witch-
craft, or that " Grizel Cochrane," with the same sjDirit
which the late Lord Dundonald showed in Basque Roads,
dressed herself in man's clothes, and attacked the mail
which was bringing her father's death-warrant.   It  is
by gathering together such particulars  that we learn
how family  propensities  show  themselves ;      and we
should say to all family historians,—get as many anec-
dotes as possible :    if you love your reader and want to
be read, get anecdotes !         Character manifests itself in
little things, just as a sunbeam finds its way through a
chink.   A likeness in little is as valuable as a likeness
in large ;    and how much better than a bad likeness on
an  enormous  canvas !              Unfortunately  most  writers
labour at describing a character, instead of collecting
the facts about it ;   and we find an inventory wdiere v, e
 - 231 - 
218         BRITISH FAMILY HISTOEIES.
hoped to find a portrait, or at all  events a relic, which
would put us in contact with the person.
Here are two curious anecdotes from our historian of
Archibald  the  sixth  Earl  of  Angus, the  man who
married Margaret of England, widow of James IV., and
so became grandfather of Darnley, and ancestor of Her
Majesty :
—
'
'  They tell also how at another time she [viz.,  the Queen Re-
gent, Mary of Lorraine] desii-ed to have his castle of Tantallon
to keep warders in, or upon Iknownot what pretext or for what
use.   To this hee gave no answer for a long time;    but having a
gose-hawke on his fist, which he was feeding, spake of her, say-
ing she was a greedy gled.   '  The devill is in this greedy gled,
she will never be fxill
!
'    .   .    .     They tell  also how the Queen
Eegent had intention to make the Earl of Huntley a duke
;
whereof when she was discoursing with Angus she told himhow
Huntley had done her very good service, for which she intended
to advance him, and make him a duke, to which he answered,
'  Why not, madam;    we are happy that have such a princesse
than can know and will acknowledge men's service, and is wil-
ling to recompense it.    But " by the might of God!  " (this was
his oath when he was serious and in anger;    at other times it
was " by St. Bride of Douglas! ") if he he aDuke Iwill he a drake,''
alluding to the word Duke, which in Scotland signifies a duck,
as well as that title  and dignitie, which being the female, and
the drake the male, his meaning was, he would be above and
before him. ... So she desisted from further prosecuting of
that purpose."
This earl was a grandson of Archibald the fifth Earl
of Angus, the famous " Bell the Cat."   Of that stalwart
potentate Godscroft tells  a story which illustrates his
 - 232 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        219
stormy and violent times, and brings the man before
" The King on a time was discoursing at table of the person-
ages of men, and by all men's confession the prerogative was
adjudged to the Earl of Angus.  A coui-tier that was bye, one
Spense of Kilspindie,  .    .    .    cast in a word of doubting and dis-
paraging :     '  it is true/ said he, '  if all be good that is up-come,'
meaning, if his action and valour were answerable to his per-
sonage.   This spoken openly, and coming to the Earl's ears,
offended him highly.   It fell  out after this, as the Earle was
ritling from Douglas to Tantallon, that he sent all his company
the nearest way, and he himself, with one onely of his servants,
having each of them a hawk on his fist, in hope of better sport,
took the way by Borthwick towards Ealawe ;   where lighting at
the brook at the west end of the town, they bathed their hawks.
In the mean time this Spense happenedto come that way, whom
the Earle espying, said, '  Is not this such a one, that madeques-
tion of mymanhood ?   I will go to him and give him a trial of
it, that we may know which of us is the better man.'  '  No, my
lord,' said his servant, '  it is a disparagement for you to meddle
with him.' .    .    .     '  I see,' said the Earle, '  he hath one with him ;
it shall be thy part to grapple with him, whilst I deal with his
master.'   So fastening their hawks they rode after him.  '  What
I'eason had you,' said the Earle to him, '  to speak contemptu-
ously of me at a such a time? '    "When the other would have ex-
cused the matter, he told him that would not serve the turne.
'  Thou art a big fellow, and so am I ;    one of us must pay for it.'
The other answered, '  If it may be no matter, there is never an
Earle in Scotland but I wiU defend myself from him as well as
I can.'  .    .     .    So, alighting from theii' horses, they fought a cer-
tain space ;    but at last the Earl of Angus cut Spence's thigh-
bone asunder,  so  that he fell  to  the  ground, and died soon
after."
Such stories were evidently genuine traditions,  and
 - 233 - 
220         BEITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
tradition preserves much which mere charters cannot
embody.  While admitting the frequent admixture of
fable, we must be careful—to borrow a metaphor from
the diggings—in  washing the earth  not to  lose  the
particles of gold.
Godscroft gives a pretty full narrative of the career
of the Earl of Morton, and preserves his appearance for
UP, in his dry but sometimes picturesque way :
—
" He was slow of speech, by a naturall stayedness and com-
posed gravity.   He was of a middle statui-e,  rather  square
than tall, having the hair of his head and beard of a yellowish
flaxen."
It  is  characteristic of the  tendency of family his-
torians to make the best of their heroes, good or bad,
that he soon after adds :
—
"He kept a concubine or two, because of his lady's being
frantic, and was even too much set to heap up treasure."
" Master David " could not have found it in his heart
to say that a Douglas was grossly profligate and abo-
minably avaricious !
The " History of the Houses of Douglas and Angus "
ends with the death of Archibald, the eighth Earl of
Angus, a friend of the  historian's, in  1588.   With all
its defects—occasional exaggeration in the early parts,
and here and there  a  genealogical  error,  which the
more accurate science of to-day enables us to correct,
and in spite of a certain pedantic tediousness and pro-
 - 234 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        221
lixity—this book of Hume of Godscroft still remains an
excellent specimen of its  class.   Antiquaries esteem it
as of good general authority ;    and its loyalty of spirit,
antique dignity of style, and occasional gleams of pictur-
esque colour,  make it  worthy of a larger  number of
readers than it  has lately found.   It were to be wished
that any English family of corresponding rank had a
history of corresponding excellence.   But it is a curious
circumstance,  that  while  England is  a  thousandfold
richer  than  Scotland  in  antiquarian  literature—in
county histories, for  example, those monuments of the
greatness of English fa.milies—Scotland has produced
the best family histories, from the days of Godscroft to
the days of the " Lives of the Lindsays."  We shall now
turn to a work which belongs to the interval between
these,  we mean the  " Memorie of  the  Somervilles."
That delightful  specimen  of  the  genus  turned  up
among the  MSS. of  the family in  the  time of  Sir
Walter Scott, and was published by him in 1815.   It
had been written by James the eleventh Lord Somer-
ville, in the time of Charles II.
There can be little question that it were better in all
cases that the history should be written by a member
of the family.   He is the proper man to crown the Lar
with flowers.   He is  the  natural  historian  of  those
whose blood he inherits.   What is his remotest ancestor
but his father so  many steps back ?    The love of the
 - 235 - 
223         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
subject, whicli is  the root of all  excellence in writing,
can be so strong in no man as in him.  Wemay have
valuable histories from others ;   from him we expect a
warmth of sentiment and tenderness of feeling which
shall stamp the work with a charm beyond mere lite-
rature.   In the case of biographies, for instance, do we
not see that a tender tie  between biographer and hero
has existed in the case of some of the very best, and
imparted a peculiar colour of human attraction to the
" Agricola,"  to  Eoper's " Sir  Thomas More,"  and to
Lockhart's " Life of Scott "
?
The chief  charm of  the " Memorie of the  Somer-
villes,"  is  an affectionate, antique  enthusiasm for  the
subject, which gives a delightful naiveU to it.    There
is  an air of ancient domesticity about it, as if you had
been transported into  the feudal days ;    not into  the
romance of them, but into their homely and everyday
life.    In order to put our readers en rapport with the
kindly and quaint historian, we shall  transcribe from
the preface, " by way of ane epistle to my sones," dated
1679 :—
"I first intertained the thoughts and set about this worke,
when your loveing mother and my dearest wife attended her
respective parents at the place of Corr-house dureing their long
sicknes, which gave the first ryse to that of her oune, and de-
pryved me at length of that happyness enjoyed in her sweet
societie above most of men;    and good God!    how could it other-
wayse be, seeing all that could be wished for in any woman was
 - 236 - 
BEITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        223
eminently to be found in her.   In birth, worshipful, being the
second daiightei- of as ancient a house and familie as any within
the shyr of ther degree ;
*  her parents not only honoured but
much beloved of all  for ther hospitalitie and vertue.   It was
truly said of Corr-house that he was the soonest and longest a
man of any gentleman in Scotland ;   and indeed he was company
for a prince, and the greatest of our grandies.  .    .    .    Now, by
what I have said of her near relations, her oune jjersonall worth
can hardly be conceaved, far lesse expressed, by soe un-learned
and dull a pen as myne, if not supplied by the affectione of a
kinde husband, and enlyvened by the remembrance of soe ex-
cellent a wife.   Consider her, then, in her parents, in her rela-
tiones, her education, and as a mother, but above all  in  her
understanding and i^ersone.   For the first, she had so clear and
piercing a witt in aj^prehending any matter, religious or civill,
that her answers were ready and pertinent, home to the puipose
proj^oned, without affectation or wrangling to hear herself speak.
.     .    .    For her knowledge in civill business, I can give her this
testimonie from my oune experience, that never was any more
happyto bring the most intricat and desperat affairs in all men's
judgments to ane fortunate issue than she.   When my estate
was looked upon as quyte ruined and undone, her prudence,
conduct and vertue only preserved it ;    for to speak the truth, in
myyounger years, when I came first to the management of my
estate, notwithstanding of the bad conditions I found it  in, I
mynded more my halkes and dogs than business, which was
well supplied by my wife's indefatigable pains as to my con-
cerns; neither did her diligence abroad make her neglect the
care of her familie at home by her oune hands, at most tymes
with a watchfull eye over her servants, with whom she conversed
pleasantly and familiarly, which made them doe more than all
the rigiditie that a sullen or dogged mistress can extract from
them.
'
'  For the proportione of her bodie, ptu-eness and deHcacie of
her complexione, the sweetnes of her air, the best of meanes,
*  The Banuatynes of Corr-liouse, in Lanarkshire.
 - 237 - 
224         BEITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
•wifh tlie  statelyness of her port, all  concurring to frame and
make up an excellent creature, gave lier absolutely the advan-
tage of most of tlie  women of lier tyme, as cannot, nor will not,
be denyed by any that ever had the happyness to see her, save
such of her oune sex as might have grudged and fretted at the
universall applause she receaved, and testimonie of being the
master-piece of women-kynde that the present or future age
may readily behold :    from whose fruitfull womb four of yow,
my sones, sprang before she attained the twentie-fourth year of
her age, as exact modelles of her delicate self, being all of yow
nursed with the teates and weaned upon the knees of a most
indulgent mother, who cared for yow in the womb, in the cradle,
up-bringing and breeding in all sciences and befitting exercises
that might qualifie you in your generatione and statione to be
serviceable to your j)rince, country, and relationes, and before
her death was soe happy as to see yow settled in j^our patrimo-
nies, according to your birth-rights.   Haveing proceeded thus
far, I can add noe more ;    the sad remembrance of my unex-
presseable losse hes quyte dulled my inventioune.
To'' affectionate father,
Sic subscribitur,
James Someevill."
This is  as quaint as  anything in  Pepys, and much
superior to  the  domesticity of Pepys in delicacy and
chivah'ous dignity, qualities which the writer inherited
from as  ancient and gentle a stock as Great Britain
could furnish.   The Somervilles  are  descended  from
Sir Gualter de Somerville, a knight who accompanied
William the Conqueror to England, and obtained lands
in Staffordshire.   The Scottish branch was founded by
a  younger son,  who attached  himself  to  the  good
David I. ;    and they possessed lands in Roxburghshire
 - 238 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        225
as early as A.D. 1174,   By a very curious accident the
English and Scottish properties became re-united, after
a lapse of six hundred years, on the death of the last of
the English line, the well-known author of the " Chace."'
Shenstone observed of him that he loved him for his
" flocci-nauci-nihili-pilification  of  money,"  a  quality
which the Scottish race possessed likewise, and which
led them to entertain the Jameses at Cowthally Castle
with a hospitality that, along with other circumstances,
had much reduced them by the time of our historian.
Perhaps, but for  this temporary eclipse,  the eleventh
lord* would not have had leisure or inclination to work
away at the book before us ;   for though Fortuna non
Tiiutat genus, and can no more destroy nohlesse than
confer it,  it  is  often observed that  a family rises  re-
freshed like the old  giant from a fall  on the  earth
;
that a Byron, a Mirabeau, a Chateaubriand appears to
assert  the principle  of "blood," just  as  the world is
beginning to moralise on the decay of  his  line.   At
such periods, too, a man cherishes the memory of his
family honours mth a peculiar tenderness, as they say
the descendants of the  Moors keep the keys of their
• The peerage dates from 1430.   The first  Lord Sonierville married
a daughter of Stewart Lord Darnley, and had a daughter, Margaret,
married to  Eoger Kirkpatrick of  Closeburn.   If the  Kirkpatricks,
from whom the Emjiress of the French is  descended, sprang off,  as
is supposed, at this point, her Majesty has the royal blood of Stuart
in her veins.    How Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe,  elegant antiquary
as he was, would have delighted to trace the conuectiou !
 - 239 - 
236        BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
Spanish castles to this day.   There are some pleasant
little  touches of this family pride (never ungracefully
shown) in the " Memorie of the Somervilles ;  " and the
personal  interest  its  author  exhibits  in  the  history
makes the Look more amusing and dramatic than that
of Hume of Godscroft, or, indeed, than any other family
history with which we are acquainted.
Our readers would scarcely thank us for  extracting
the prolonged detail which Lord Somerville gives us of
the way in which a remote progenitor daringly encoun-
tered and slew " ane hideous monster in the forme of a
worme, soe called and esteemed by the country people
(but in effect  has been a serpent or some such other
creature),  in lenth  three  Scots yards,  and somewhat
bigger than ane ordinary man's leg."   How the creature
gradually became the teiTor of the neighbourhood—its
consumption of food—the deliberate  sallying forth of
the brave Somerville with an attendant—how he set a
lighted  peat  on the  top  of  his  lance—charged  the
monster, 'spite of its  mighty jaws, and slew it—all this
is detailed with a fond minuteness by the stout knight's
descendant.   But are there not proofs ?    Is  not  the
Somerville crest to this day a wyvern vert on a wheel
or ?    Is there not—somewhat defaced by time—a rude
sculpture of a horseman charging the foul beast on the
old  church in  the parish  of Linton, Eoxburghshire ?
Will not the  country people tell  you the story even
 - 240 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        227
now, as  it  is  delivered by the " constant  tradition of
men?
"    Unfortunately, the sculpture (which probably
suggested the story in the first  instance*) proves, on
examination, says Sir Walter Scott, not to represent a
serpent at all.    The spirit of these old fables is  eter-
nally true, become of the letter what will ;    and
" Somervel, a squire of great renown,"
who, as  Blind Harry tells  us,  fought by the side  of
Wallace, had done as tough work in his time, no doubt,
as ever "ane hideous monster in the forme of a worme"
could  have given  anybody.   These stories—like  the
ballads  which nothing but the popular reverence for
the heroes of them created and preserved—are among
a hundred proofs  of the  unbought loyalty  and love
which the brave yeomen and peasantry of this country
felt towards those whom modern ignorance and impu-
dence describe as their oppressors.
It  is  not, as we have hinted, in the early parts of
their narratives that family histories of the old  school
are  strongest.   They are pretty sure—we do not say
only to  give  legends—for  these  are  interesting  and
curious, and we are glad to have them—but to make
blunders in facts of connection as  well as  in facts of
*  " One would suppose that sometimes the sculpture said to comme-
morate the legend, had vice versd given rise to the legend."
—
Surtces'
"History of Durham," vol. ii.  p. 172.
Q 2
 - 241 - 
228         I3EITISH  FAMILY HISTORIES.
history.   Not only  "vvere  the  writers  credulous—and
naturally so, when writing of families  so  ancient and
distinguished, that people would almost believe  any-
thing of them—but they were lamentably uncritical.
They consulted evidences, but did not test and compare
them, and were content, in using authorities, to tran-
scribe from them.  Errors thus crept in, as they did
into  those  laudationes  of  the  Romans, alluded  to
before,  and  about  which  Cicero  tells   us  in  the
" Brutus," that they often contained false triumphs and
false  consulships.   There was no deliberate  invention,
of falsehood in these cases ;   but errors grew which were
as like truths as some weeds are like flowers, and their
pretty colours saved and disguised them.  Nay, these
very falsities  had a kind of moral truth in  them—
a
value like that of truth itself ;   they would never have
been believed of any but families with regard to which
much was really true—families that everybody admired
as  extraordinary.   In the  time  of  Lord Somerville,
Dugdale was laying the foundations of a sound know-
ledge of family history by the publication of his great
work, the " Baronage ;  "  and the influence of the new
era so far extended to our historian, that the"Memorie"
is in great measure sound, even in its purely antiquarian
parts (the "worm" story being professedly given as a
popular  tradition),  and wholly free  from  such  mad
absurdity  as  distinguishes  the  work of Urquhart of
 - 242 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        2:19
Cromartie.   The  most  fascinating  portions  are,   of
course, those where the narrator gives anecdotes of the
last few generations—which have all  the attraction of
true  traditions—which are told with an old-fashioned
humour and colour indicative of real literary talent
—
and which light  up bygone days with an effect  like
sun-light on tapestry.   In their palmy period, the pride
of the Somervilles was in their hospitality ;    and their
castle of Cowthally, in the lovely Clyde region, was by
a rude pun called Cow-daily from that circumstance.
It is not without a pardonable enthusiasm that the old
lord tells us of the feasting which took place when the
young James IV. honoured the " infare " (or entertain-
ment of a bride on her reception  at the bridegroom's
house) of a Somerville with his presence.   The young
lady was a half sister of Bell-the-Cat's ;   for that stalwart
Douglas was busy making connections to strengthen his
great house ;    and in those days when you married a
gentleman's daughter, the chances were  you had to
turn out with your tenants, with " spears and jacks,"
and help him before long.   Nevertheless men ate and
drank, and laughed and joked, and loved, much as they
do now—some say with a more buoyant and bounding
pulse than their descendants !         But let  us  hear Lord
Somerville :
—
" In September following [14S9], his father being yet alyve,
lie biinges home his young ladye to Cowthally, where the infare
 - 243 - 
230         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
was honoured with noe meaner guest than the King's majestie
James the Fourth, being then in the second year of his reigne,
and in the eighteenth year of his age.
"The King, near to Inglestoune Bridge, had been met with
by Sir John of Quathquan [the bridegroom], with some fiftieth
gentlemen of his  oune name and his father's vassalles, who
waited upon his Majesty unto Cowthally Castle.   John Lord
Somerville, by reasone of his age, was not able to meet the King
at any distance.   However, being supported by William Somer-
vill, younger of Plaine, and William Cleilland of that ilk, both
his nephewes, he receaved theKing at the west end of the calsay
that leades from Carnwath toune to Cowthally house, where his
majestie was pleased to light from his horse, as did his whoU
letinue, and walked upon foot from thence to Cowthally, being
near a quarter of a myle of excellent way.  At the outter gate
Dame Marie Baillzie, then Lady Somervill, being at this tyme
not above the fortieth  and sixth  year of her age,  with her
daughter-in-law, Elizabeth Carmichaell,  Sir John of Quath-
quan's lady, the lady Applegu-th, the lady Cleghorn, the lady
Carmichsell, and the Captaine of Crawfuird's lady, with a great
many others  that both by affinitie  and consanguinitie were
related to the house of Cowthally, with severall other ladyes,
were ther present to well-come his majestie to the infare and
make the iutertainment more splendid.   What ther fare was
needs not to be discussed upon ;    it  is  enough to  know it was
in  Cowthally House, where thi-ee  of  his  Majestie's  prede-
cessores had been intertained before, and his successor, King
James Fj'fth, often.   Howlong his Majestie continued at Cow-
thally,  I cannot be positive,  but by the  chamberlaine's and
steward's accompts I find there was noe fewerbeastes killed than
fiftieth kyne, two hunderedsheep, fourtieth holies of malt, and of
meall sexteinth, of butter twentieth stone, spent at the infare,
besyde fishes, tame and wilde foull in such abundance that both
the King and the nobilitie declared they had not seen the lyke
many house within the kingdome;    and yett this iutertainment
was short by neer a third as to that the first Hiugh LordSomer-
 - 244 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        231
vill gave to King James the Fyfth at the marriage of his eldest
daughter, Lady Cookpooles."
Elsewhere he has  a paragraph which makes  the
precise character of these Homeric feastings more clear,
where he speaks of
—
*
'  whoU sheep and legges of cowes being served up in timber
plates, or rather in troches [troughs] of ane awell [oval] forme.
.     .    .    This was a vanitie and unthriftie custome they observed at
ther treates in those days, for it  was in the great quantitie of
these and abundance of tame and wyld foull that they gloryed
most.  The fashione of kickshoes and desertes was not much
knoune and served upon great men's tables before Queen Marie's
reigne."
The very best story in the book turns upon feasting.
We allude to the incident of the " Speates and Raxes."
One of the Jameses haviug intimated that he would
honour Somerville with his company at his castle, the
Baron despatched a missive to his lady, with the sig-
nificant  postscript,  " Speates  and Raxes !  "—implying
that  spits  and ranges  were to  be  put  into  instant
service.   Unluckily, the letter fell  into the hands of a
new steward,  who,  not  knowing  the  writing,  read
" Spears and Jacks !
"   The lady, instantly concluding
that there w^as  war in  the wind, raised the followers
without delay ;    and the King and Somerville found a
couple of hundred armed men, under the command of a
neighbouring  laird,  awaiting  them on the road.   At
first the King feared treason, but the mistake was soon
 - 245 - 
23^         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
explained.   Few Stewarts,  from the  first  James to
Topliam Beauclerk, were without a keen sense of fun,
and the monarch's delight was long and loud.   This
tale,  which was a  favourite  with  the  diners-out  of
Edinburgh for  many a  day,  is  of course  told  with
minute detail by our historian ;   but as his narrative is
lengthy, and has found its  way into the " Anecdotes of
the Aristocracy," we have preferred to abridge it.
The lad who figures in the following narrative, as re-
ceiving chastisement according to the ancient severity,
was James Somervill  of Drum, the  author's  father.
The Drum branch took up the succession of the line,
and honourably distinguished themselves in the Civil
Wars.  Our author, by the way, was rigidly loyal and
strictly episcopal, and lays well about him upon all foes
of crown and mitre when they come before him :
—
" His infancie and youth during his abode at schooles with
his grandfather, Eaplock, with whom he continued, or least was
upon his charges, untiU the eighteinth year of his age, I shall
pass with two or three reniai'kes.   The first two evidences how
sensible he was of correctione and apt to take with rebuke att a
tyme when he could hardly discerne betwixt his right and left
hand.  The house of Eaplock being much frequented by stran-
gers, and the familie itself numerous, it cannot be imagined but
servants took occasion to spend much of their tyme idly, if not
profanely;   there was nothing wherein they exercised themselves
more than in dyceing and carding.  One evening while they
were gameing (ther master's grandchylde James looking on,
being then in the fyfth year of his age), they first  contended
and then quai-relled with much noyse, which comeing to ther
 - 246 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        233
master's eares, resideing in the garden chamber directly opposite
to the kitchen lights, who hearing this  great noyse, he makes
doune the stairs to iindorstand the cause, but not soo quickly but
the putting of his staff uponthe stej)pes of the stair discovering
his coming, which made all of them betake themselves to their
heeles to seek for a place of shelter, knowing well that if they
were catched they would be soundly battoned, forr he was a
man naturally  cholerick,  severe,  and superstitious,  ffearing
every bad man that might presage the least misfortune to his
house and ffamilie.   Being come to the kitchen he finds non
there but his grand-chylde James, and the cards upon the table,
which he takes up and throws in the ffyi-e :    when they were
burning the chylde cries  out, '  Dear grandffather, the  bonny
king of hearts is nowburnt !  '—whereupon his grandffather with
his staff strykes him twice upon the head, saying '  ffalse knave,
know ye the cards allready ?   Soon get out of my sight, other-
ways ye shall be soundly whipt.'   This correctione even then
took soe deep impressione that during his whoU life, he hated
the playing at cards, neither did he ever but un-willingly exer-
cise himself therein."
Lord Somerville, we may see,  was, notwithstanding
his  natural gifts, by no means a finished writer ;    and
has sentences which are as long as his pedigree, without
being nearly so clear.   He has not the air of the gown
which distinguishes  his  more pretentious predecessor,
Hume of Godscroft.   Yet his book is  the more agree-
able of the two; and besides its nature and its heart, its
very garrulity is one of its  principal charms.  He lets
you entirely into his confidence and company, in the
oddest bursts of feeling, such as, " Pardon these  hard
words from a Scots gentleman of noe meane extrac-
tion !  "  and his  book has many of the qualities of a
 - 247 - 
234        BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
good  novel,  along  with  the  immeasurable  merit  of
reality and truth.   In times when artificial antiques in
literature find as good a sale as those bits of ancient
art which are manufactured at Naples for travellers, it
is  worth while to keep genuine old literary curiosities
in public remembrance.  The domestic life of its fore-
fathers is as respectable an object of inquiry as a nation
could have, and such books very notably contribute to
the understanding of it.
We should not be surprised if lumps of old treasure
like this " Memorie of the Somervilles " were yet lying
buried in the charter-chests of ancient and considerable
families,  along  with  other  valuable  and  neglected
papers.   Would that we could be certain they were not
rotting with damp, or travelling by slow but certain
stages to an ignominious grave in the snuff-shop or the
cheesemonger's.  We cannot afford  to  lose  them, for
the truth is, as Sir Harris Nicolas observes in his  edi-
tion  of the  Scrope and Grosvenor Roll, that " if  the
literature  of  this  country be compared with that of
France or Italy, it will be found extremely defective in
memoirs of  eminent families."   This is  an old  com-
plaint ;      but  it   is   always  finding  fresh  illustration.
While we write,  a  new " History  of  the  House of
Colonna "  is  announced.  But we are  still  without a
decent history of the Percies, the Talbots, the Greys,
the Hastingses, Devereuxes, or Nevilles.   It would be
 - 248 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        235
no easy matter to produce a book which an English-
man could see  without  a  blush lying  alongside the
sumptuous and splendid volumes of Litta.   And if  a
reader desires information about our families, he must
be content with the compilations of Collins, the pon-
derous folio of Dugdale, county histories which for the
most part give mere pedigrees and law documents, or
Peeraofes which tell little more than tombstones.
Not in the whole list of family histories, in the pages
of Moule's "Bibliotheca Heraldica," are there two books
so intrinsically valuable—we speak of moral, historical,
and artistic value—as the two of which we have endea-
voured to give our readers a notion.   There are how-
ever  some curious  specimens,  and  some which  are
important for their genealogical information.   The first
are  the results  of  accident ;     the  second  are  usually
written either by professed genealogists or by domestic
chaplains  of an antiquarian  turn.   Neither  class  is
readable ;    that  is  to  say,  neither has  exercised  any
influence on opinion, or has done justice to the houses
which it celebrates in the eyes of the world.
Of the first  class—those which we owe to the acci-
dent of  some retainer's  having taken up his pen to
do  honour to  his  masters—we have  a  specimen in
Seacome's " House of Stanley," published at Liverpool
about 1741.   "John Seacome of Liverpool, gent.," had
been house-steward to  Earl William, (jrandson of the
 - 249 - 
'236           BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
Earl JaiTies who died on the  scaffold for the Stuarts.
An honourable loyalty to the family characterises Mr.
Seacome, but his  intellect  is  of  the humblest order.
One paragraph will  show us how the rationalism  of
the century was exploding old  legends, and how Mr.
Seacome reasoned according to the spirit of the age.
He is speaking of the well-known legend of the Eagle
and Child of the Lathams of  Latham, whose heiress
of line,  as  everybody knows, carried  Latham to  the
Stanleys :
—
'
'  Whoever knows anytliing of the nature ofhawks in general
(of which, the eagle is principal) must of consequence know with
what fury and violence they strike their prey, killing all they
stoop to  at one stroke, or before they leave it;  and knowing
this, must allow it morally impossible that a bird of preyof that
strength and rapacious nature that an eagle is known to be
should carry a live child to her airey unhurt."
The gravity of this is  irresistible, nor does the style
of the work rise anywhere above this level.   He gives
us an odd old rhyming history of the Stanleys, and we
are very sorry to say that the poetry which he preserves
is no better than the prose in which he embalms it :
—
" Their names be Audley, of verry right descent :
I shall .show you how if you give good intent,
As quickly as I can, without more delay,
How tlie name was changed and called Stanley.
" In ancient tym3, much more than two hundred years,
Was our Lord Awdley, as by stories doth appear,
Awdley by creation, also by name Awdley,
Then haveing a lordship that is called Stanley,
 - 250 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        237
"Which lorflship he gave unto his second sonn,
For valliant acts that befoi-e he had done.
Their this man dwelled many a daye,
And many yeares was called Awdley of Stanley ;
Afterward he marry'd the heire of Scurton,
And when Scurton dyed thither he went to wonn,
And then he was called Stanley of Scurton,
The which name sticketh still to all his succession."
Ohe I   jam satis—the  reader  no  doubt  exclaims.
Compared with  this,  Dugdale  is   like  the  Arabian
Nights, and Collins  gay and graceful.   Tradition, like
amber, preserves sad trash sometimes.  Weeds fasten
themselves on the walls of old  castles.   It is  melan-
choly to find such a singer in the train of a family with
seven  hundred years  of gentility  and four  hundred
years of peerage—such a poem, preserved by such an
historian.
But this book, like most sincere books—for we are
certain that poor Mr. Seacome did his best, and would
have been a tolerable  historian for  a less  renowned
line—has its  points of interest.   His detailed account
of the fate of Earl James gives particulars which have
historical value, and touches of personal interest :--
" Wlten his body was taken up," lie tells us, " and laid in his
coffin, there was thrown into it  the following lines by an un-
known hand : —
'  Wit, bounty, courage, all three here in one lie dead
—
A Stanley's hand, Vere's heart, and Cecill's head.'"
And we may learn from him, on the best authority, the
 - 251 - 
23S         BEITISH FAMILY HISTOEIES.
degree to which the family suffered for their loyalty
—
loyalty how requited is but too well known !
—
"Earl William, whom I had the honour to serveseveral years
as household steward, hath often told me that he possessed no
estate in  Lancashire,  Cumberland, "Westmoreland, Yorkshire,
Warwickshire, and Wales, but whenever he viewed any of them
he could see another near or adjoining to that he was in posses-
sion of, equal or greater of value, lost by his grandfather for his
loyalty and service to the crown and his country."
In fact, the poorest and most meagre family record,
written from 'personal feeling andpersonal knowledge,
is  sure to  have some value ;    the instinct of affection
will direct the writer to points of sentimental interest,
and his position will  throw in his way details which
may often  prove  of  no  little  historical  importance.
There is  an attractive little " Genealogical Account of
the Barclays of Urie," which was written by Robert
Barclay, a son of the Apologist, and published at Aber-
deen in 1740.  Small as it is, it illustrates every advan-
tage which this class of books possesses.   The earnest
religious character which appeared so strongly in the
vindicator  of  the  Quakers is  there  shown to  have
distinguished his  ancestors ;    especially  one Alexander
Barclay of Mathers, who had a charter in  1483, and
married into the Wisharts of Pitarrow, also an earnest
stock.   And here  let  us  say,  that  nothing is  more
curious and touching to the student of this branch of
antiquities  than to  see fine  races  transmitting  their
 - 252 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTOEIES.        239
virtues  through  their  women.  This  is  a  matter of
which common biographers and historians  take Httle
heed ;   but we humbly submit, that when a gi-eat  man
is talked about we should have due honour given to his
mother and ancestors in the female lines.
Few writers in our day have a word of decent civility
for the family of Stewart.   It would be curious to trace
its  hereditary character in the chief line :     our present
purpose is only to remark on the greatness attained by
some men who descended  maternally from it.    We
need scarcely say that the mother of William of Orange
was a Stewart princess.   The mother of Cromwell was,
beyond all doubt, of one branch of the family.   So was
the  mother of  the Admirable  Crichton ;   and of  the
famous soldier Alexander Lesley, first  Earl of Leven.
Chatham was nearly and directly from the royal stem,
through his grandmother—a descendant of the Regent
Murray's.   Fox's  mother,  Lady Lennox,  was imme-
diately  descended  from  Charles II.   Byron had the
blood in  his  veins.   How interesting to see  eminent
families sharing in this kind of way in a great man's
renown !          The  gifted  Shaftesbury's  mother  was  a
Manners ;    Algernon Sidney's a Percy ;   and his famous
kinsman, Philip's,  a Dudley ;—the poet Beaumont's a
Pierrepont.   The  mother  of  Marshal  Stair  was  a
Dundas ;    and the brilliant  Peterborough was the son
of  one  of  the  brilhant  Carys.   The Ruthvens and
 - 253 - 
240         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
Carnegies gave mothers to Montrose and Dundee.  The
Villierses gave a mother to Chatham ;   the Granvilles to
Pitt.   Nelson inherited the blood of the Sucklings and
Walpoles ;    Collingwood that of the Greys and Planta-
genets.   From the  Hampdens came the  mother of
Waller ;      and Mary Arden (of  an ancient Warwick-
shire  name),  was the  mother of  Shakspeare.   The
literary  talent  runs  through female  lines  like  other
qualities.    Swift's  mother  was  a  Herrick,  and  his
gTandmother a Dryden.  Donne derived, through his
mother, from  Sir  Thomas More.  Thomson had the
Hume blood  in  his  veins.   A daughter of Beccaria
produced  Manzoni.  The late  Bishop  Cojjleston  evi-
dently got his playfulness from the Gays ;   as Chester-
field  his  wit  from Lord Halifax.   The relationship
between Fielding  and " Lady Mary"  is  well known.
Sometimes, when a notable man comes from a family
never before heard of,  it  happens that he just comes
after a marriage with a better one.   Thus, the mother
of  Selden  was  of  the  knightly  Bakers  of  Kent ;
Camden's of the ancient Curwens of Workington.  The
observer, who chooses to keep his eye on such points in
the course of his general reading, will find that " blood
"
shows itself a great deal more than people who know
nothing whatever of the subject would probably admit.
The loose  notions  about  "aristocracy"  prevalent  in
England—notions  strangely vague, when we consider
 - 254 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        241
how thoroughly aristocratic England really is—the dis-
tinction  drawn between nobility  and gentility,  terms
once  synonymous here, and still  synonymous every-
where else—have the effect of making people forget
how many great  men have really  been  of  what a
Frenchman,  for  instance,  would  call  " aristocratic
"
families.   Philosophers  like  Bacon,  Hume, and Ber-
keley
;    poets
like  Spenser,  Shelley,  Scott ;     novelists
like  Fielding  and Smollett ;     historians  like Gibbon
;
seamen like Collingwood and Rodney; Vanes, St. Johns,
George Herberts,  and so  many others  of simple but
ancient gentry, amply vindicate the pretensions of old
families to the honour of producing the best men that
England has ever seen.   Yet, every other day,  some
sapient " organ of  opinion "  flings  out  a rude  taunt
against  an undefined  "aristocracy,"  not  choosing  to
recollect that  if  it  is  family which constitutes aris-
tocracy,  the good families  in  the peerage have, even
in the last  half-dozen generations, produced the best
men—from  Lord  Halifax  to  Lord  Derby ;     witness
Carteret, Mansfield, Chesterfield, and Byron.  An old
Roman noble,  according  to  Cicero,  extinguished  one
such enemy, who told him that he was "unworthy of
his  ancestors,"  by replying, " Hercules !    you're worthy
of yours !  "   But reasoning and sarcasm are lost  upon
persons who are dead to the first from their ignorance of
facts, and safe from the second by their density of hide.
 - 255 - 
242         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
To return to the class  of works before us :     a fair
notion of the regular family history of the eighteenth
century may be derived from Anderson's " History of
the  House of  Yvery,"* published  in  1742.   Horace
Walpole,  writing  to  his  friend  Matin,  has  a  lively
passage  about  it.     He is  speaking  in  1749  of  the
second Lord Egmont, who had just succeeded to  the
peerage :
—
'
'  The first event that made him known was his carrying the
Westminster election at the end of my father's ministry, which
he amply described in the history of his own family, a genealo-
gical work, called the History of the House of Yvery, a work
which cost him three thousand pounds, as the heralds informed
Mr. Chute and me, .    .    .    and which was so ridiculous that he
has since tried to suppress all the copies.  It concluded with the
description of the Westminster election in these or some such
words, ^ And here let us leave this youngnoblemati strugglingfor the
dying liberties of his country ! '   "
Of course,  one  is  not  surprised  to  find  that  the
passage in question is  not half  so  ridiculous  as  it  is
here represented :    such things lose  nothing in passing
through the hands of Horace Walpole.
In the " House of  Yvery "  we find  ourselves in  a
new atmosphere,  after  leaving  Godscroft  and  Lord
Somerville.   The  poetic,  old-fashioned  loyalty—the
tenderness of enthusiasm which, even when it  excites
* For the great errors into wliich Anderson or  Lord Egmont fell
see Drummond's " Noble British Families," vol. ii.,  where the Perceval
pedigree is given from more recent investigations.
 - 256 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        2tS
a smile, never for  a moment loses  our respect,—these
are not present in the pages of the historian of the house
of Perceval  There is  unbounded glorification of the
family, no doubt, but not so simple, so innocent, and so
sincere as the admiration of the older writers.   There
is  a solemn and deliberate pedantry ;   and we can fancy
we see an old herald officiating at an old funeral ;    not
in the tearful state of the faithful servants, but wholly
taken up with the banner and canopy, and bent on
keeping the monks, who are carrying candles, barefoot,
in a straight and proper line.   We are treated to some
opening remarks on the Incas of Peru, who " pretended
to be children of the Sun."  We have then a solemn
inquiry as to the name of Perceval.   Is it  an ancient
British or Gallic word ?  or from a little  village in Nor-
mandy?   or from vol de Perci ?   or  from per or ^^ar
cheval ?   or  from per se  valens,  " which contains  a
haughty implication of  the  Grandeur and the  Inde-
pendence of this family ? "   We shall quote a sentence
or two, in order to show that the erudite Anderson and
his patron were determined to lose no claim to honour
to  which the  ancient  line  could  pretend.   He tells
us,
—
" It was usual in ancient times with, tlie greatest families, and
is by all genealogists allowed to be a mighty evidence of dignity,
to use certain nicknames, which the French call  sobriquets  .    .    .
such as '  the Lame,' or 'the Black.' .    .    .    The house of Yverj-,
not deficient in any mark or proof of greatness and an'ii(^uity,
H 2
 - 257 - 
244         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
abounds at different periods in instances of tHs nature.  Eoger,
a younger son of "William Gouel de Perceval, "was sui-named
Balbus, or the Stutterer."
This  recalls  to  our mind an  old  Scottish  gentle-
woman (one of those genealogical old  ladies now, we
fear, becoming rare), who would never allow that any
but people of famil}^ could have hoTidfide gout !        If it
was mentioned that a roturier was afflicted with that
disease, she would shake her head,—" Na, na !     it's only
my father  and Lord  Gallowa'  that  has  the regular
gout ! "   Mr. Anderson thought, like this old lady, that
the weaknesses of great blood were honourable, as the
disease of the oyster produces the pearl.
Mr. Anderson seems to have had a suspicion that the
wags of his period, as well as its  new families, would
laugh at him, or would writhe with envy at his exhibi-
tion  of the lustre  and distinction of the House, and
therefore he attacks in advance,
—
"William Cecil,  Baron Lurleigh, Lord High. Treasurer of
England, and First Minister to  Queen Elizabeth during the
greatest part of her long and glorious reign " [it is characteristic
of the genealogist,  this  formal description]  " was frequently
used to say that nobility was nothing else but ancient riches.
Notwithstandingthis, if some of the modernrace of gentry, some
of whom since the beginning of this century have by various
means, too odious to be mentioned, advancedthemselves to great
riches,  should consequently expect to  be acknowledged noble
under the doctrine of the Lord Burleigh, as to be esteemed gen-
tlemen from that expression in Spain, they would find them-
selves egregiously mistaken."
 - 258 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        24 5
He provides carefully against opposition, for he says :
" Some expressions of the dignity of this family, which in
works of this kind are not to be avoided, may create disgust in
those who envy that eminence in  others to which thej^ cannot
pretend themselves."
This defiant tone indicates that he exiDected opposi-
tion ;     that there was a kind of " set "  among various
people against family pretensions.   Prior* had said,
—
" loobies and heralds, by your leave,
Here lies what once was Matthew Prior :
The son of Adam and of Eve
;
Can Bourbon or Nassau go higher ?"
And against  aristocracy,  viewed  as  a  modern and
artificial  institution,  recruited  from considerations of
money rather than of merit, this way of talking was,
and still  is,  plausible enough.   In fact,  the  fault  of
clever and practical men then was, that they under-
rated antiquity.   Along with this, they neglected the
doctrine  of  race.   They spoke of birth  as an "acci-
dent,"  which was only a limited way of  considering
it,"f"  and did not take the pains to  observe that tlie
(Superior  minds of  England at that  very  time  Avere
* Horace Walpole seems to have thought that Prior was a son of
Lord Dorset's.   A curious essay might be written on the great men of
the Bend Sinister, or Border Wavy :      it would illustrate the question of
blood.   One of the Leslies, in the seventeenth century, left some sixty-
eight bastards !
t That is to say, it  is an "accident" as regards the individual that
he should be born from this or the other source (as,  in one sense, it is
an " accident" that he should have genius or beauty), but it is not by
accident that whole bodies of  men acquire the predominance in a
country, and display superior vigour and conduct in keeping it.
 - 259 - 
246         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
men of birth,—as Carteret and Walpole, Bolingbroke
and Chestertield, and Fielding ;    and that the same fact
had been true in the Civil War.  But aristocracy was
not upheld on its real merits, nor viewed as an institu-
tion which sprang from deep roots in the heroic history
of  Europe ;     and which,  for  instance,  had as  much
created " liberty " as it  had created titular distinctions.
Those who maintained it dwelt too much on what was
secondary and accidental about it, and so provoked an
antagonism which did not spare what was primary and
intrinsic.    Swift  had  come  to  the  rescue  in  the
Examiner, and defended it  on its  true grounds, but
with a fierceness quite equal to his brilliant wit.   " A
pearl,"  says he, writing  of the positions from which
great men come, " holds its  value, though it be found
on a dunghill ;   only that is not the most "prohahle "place
to lookfor it."   It  is  not uncommon iu later times to
find it assumed that it  is  absurd to look for " pearls
"
anywhere else.
The " History of the House of Yveiy," however, has
its  value ;    not  literary,  indeed,  but  antiquarian.   It
contains a mass of information about several  ancient
lines  which played  an  honourable  part  in  English
history.   The names of Perceval, Gournay, and Level,
are not, to be sure, familiarly known, and carried per
ora virilm, like those of Howard or Herbert.  Their
importance was feudal rather than modern.  But many
 - 260 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        247
a great man lived ante Agartiemnona—before printing,
as we may translate it—who, had he displayed propor-
tionate merit in a publishing age, would have covered
our  drawing-room tables  with  his  memoirs, his  dis-
patches, and his letters.   Many an old baron, of whom
we  can  learn  nothing,  except  through  a  writ  of
summons, or a few lines in Rymer's " Fredera," or some
Norman-French verses  in  the  Roll  of  Carlaverock,
would, if he lived now, have his portrait in Colnaghi's,
and be famous in the newspapers.  The old barons did
their duty in that sphere of life  to which God called
them ;     and if  we obtain louder celebrity,  and make
more noise, let us not mistake the multiplied reverbera-
tions and echoes of our deeds for proofs that the deeds
themselves are worthier and nobler.
As a specimen of the curiosities  of genealogy, we
quote  a  statement  of  Anderson's  about  the  royal
descents of the Egmont Branch of the House of Yvery.
He assures us that they are descended fifty-two  times
from William the Conqueror, forty-five times from the
Royal Family since the Conquest, eight times from the
Kings of  Scotland,  and twenty-eight  times from the
ancient Kings of Ireland.   To collect these details is an
amusement characteristic of the merely heraldic mind.
Probably it  is  the  long dwelling on such fascinating
mvinutvB which makes the herald  expose  himself to
those darts which in every age riddle his tabard.   " Old
 - 261 - 
248         BRITISH FAMILY HISTOEIES.
Peter Le Neve, the  herald,"  says  Horace Walpole,
"thought ridicule  consisted  in  not  being  of  an  old
family."   This was the man who wrote as an epitaph
on Craggs, " Here lies the last, who died before the first
of his family."  It was not without justice that Edmund
Burke objected  to  such  writers,  their disposition  to
make the possession of rank a proof of the possession
of merit.   " Men," he says, " who when alive were the
pity of their acquaintance make as good a figure as the
best of them in the pages of Edmondson or Collins."
So strangely are objects  of vision transfigured when
seen through an atmosphere of or and gvles !
At the  period  to  which we have now arrived,  it
would really seem as if the writing of family histories
had been abandoned to men of the Anderson stamp;
to mere antiquarians ;   men whose importance nobody
but  an ignoramus would  question,  but whose forte
assuredly is not literature.   Amere genealogist can no
more write a family history than a sexton can write an
epitaph.   Who more likely than the sexton to have the
name and dates correctly ?  but you want to know the
men;   and a skeleton in Surgeons' Hall is not more like
a human being than a barren pedigree is a fair picture
of a line of gentlemen.  In fact, to a complete family
history there go two men, or there needs a man singu-
larly endowed with different qualities ;   it  should unite
the accuracy of the herald with the glow of the good
 - 262 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES,        249
narrator.    Gibbon's  Digression  on  the  Family  of
Courtenay is  a stately  and luminous sketch,  Avorthy
of  the  historic  house ;      Cleaveland's  History  of  the
Family lives only in  the paragraph in which Gibbon
observes of the historian, " his gratitude is greater than
his  industry,  and  his  industry  thaa  his  criticism."
Gibbon had more respect for  the sentiment of birth
than many an inferior man.  He was of old  Kentish
race himself; of a gentle family, which had produced
an heraldic writer in the previous century ;    which gave
a mother to Lord Chancellor Hardwicke ;    and a grand-
mother to Sir Egerton Brydges.
We have already intimated that to Sir Walter Scott
more than  to  any other man we owe the  renewed
interest in these subjects, which make them altogether
more jnstly regarded in the middle of the nineteenth
century than they were in the middle of the eighteenth.
" He delighted above all  other books," says Lockhart,
"in such as approximate to the character of good family
histories."
'
'  Whatever lie had in himself, he would fain have made out a
hereditary claim for.   He often spoke both seriously and sport-
ively on the subject.   He had assembled about him in his 'own
great parlour,' as he called it—the room in which he died—all
the pictures of his ancestors that he could come by ;    and in his
most genial evening mood he was never weary of perusing
them.'
'
—
Lockhart.
To this passion—which was deeper even in him than
 - 263 - 
250         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
is commonly supposed—we owe that marvellous gallery
of portraits in air, wliicli  for  half a century has been
the delight of Europe.  It was his consciousness  that
he came from Swintons and Haliburtons, Eutherfords
and Campbells—large hearted and heavy-handed cham-
pions full of valour and honour—that inspired his hand
and gave  vigour  to  his  brush.   The good  that  he
did is  incalculable.   He roused the  heart of Europe,
Through colour, through song, his darling ideas  were
spread  abroad.   He awoke the  languid  interest  in
beautiful  scenery,  and covered  the  hills  of  Scotland
with throngs of pilgrims who came back to the duties
of the world,  elevated and enlivened.   Thousands of
men gathered from his pages so vivid a notion of their
ancestors that they were penetrated with an energy not
unworthy of them, and in the battles of life, or in the
battles of war, showed the generous influence.   What-
ever increased activity is perceptible in art, in poetry,
in architecture—whatever is most generous in politics
or  chivalrous  in  social  life—we owe in  large  part,
directly  or  indirectly,  to  Sir Walter Scott.   His in-
fluence saved us from the entire triumph of an ignoble
utilitarianism.   Unthinking ridicule  of  ancient times
and ancient  traditions  is  pretty well  confined,  now,
to  the lowest buffoons.   And grave philosophers not
hurried  away by romance,  and full  enough of  our
modern advantages  and  their  importance—yet  ex-
 - 264 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        251
plicitly assign the birth of the manners of Europe—its
regard for the family relation—its  loyalty to women
—
its various ennobling sentiments of honour and courtesy
—to the life of the feudal castles.
Let us now see what this revival has produced in the
way of recent family histories.   We shall find that it
has done something ;   that in point of quality we have
at least one history—the " Lives of the Lindsays "—far
beyond anything that has appeared since the inimitable
" Memorie ; " but that this  branch of British literature
still  remains bare, while so many other branches are
bright with fruit and blossom.
We pass over what may be described  as  two good
business-like books, "Anderson's History of the House
of Hamilton" (1825) and the History of the Blounts by
Sir Alexander  Croke (1823).   Everybody knows the
greatness  of  the  Hamiltons—that  in  the  sixteenth
century they were nearest the crown of Scotland after
Mary ;   that the chief line carried its  dukedom to the
Douglases, by whom it  is  still  borne ;    that the head of
the house is the Marquis of Abercorn ;    that one of their
cadets  wrote  the  Memoirs of  Grammont ;     and that
another of them was the well-known philosojDher, Sir
William,  of  Edinburgh.   But  the  history  can  only
interest those who want special information about the
branches, &c.,  of the bearers of the famous " cinque-
foils."   A similar criticism may apply to Sir Alexander
 - 265 - 
252         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
Croke's learned work on the Blounts ;    though men of
letters ought to feel  a regard for the family, which in
the  person  of  Lord Montjoy showed a  kindness  to
Erasmus ;—like  that  which  Southampton showed to
Shakspeare,  Greville  Lord  Brooke  to  Camden,  the
Cavendishes to Hobbes, Lord Dorset and the Ormonds
to Dryden, the Duke and Duchess of Queensberry to
Gay, and the Duke of Bedford to Fielding.
One or two private families of ancient gentry have
in recent times printed their  memorials—not inviting
publicity, but still, as the works are to be seen by any-
body in public libraries, not avoiding it.    We shall give
a specimen of the curious lights  thrown on by-gone
manners by them, from the " Memorials of the  Bagot
Family," an ancient house now raised to the peerage.
We may note here that few untitled families can 7iovj
vie with titled ones ;    so many, like the Bagots, Gren-
villes, Lowthers, Lambtons, &c., having accepted peer-
ages within the last century or two.  The " Memorials,"
from which we are about to quote, were compiled by
the  late  (second)  Lord Bagot, and form an  elegant
little quarto.
It  appears  that  the  potent  Staffords,  Dukes  of
Buckingham—one of the grand families destroyed by
the Wars of the  Roses—derived their  line  from  no
other than  an early Bagot, the Bagots having been
landholders ia  Staffordshire  at  the  Conquest.  It is
 - 266 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTOPJES.        253
not uncommon for families with different names to be
really sprung from the same ancestor ;    and just in this
way the Iretons (of whom was the Parliamentarian) are
from the Shirleys.   In the time of Queen Elizabeth,
Richard Bagot appears to have felt a pardonable pride
in  mentioning the  circumstance.   The wrath of his
neighbour Edward Lord Stafford was excited thereby,
and he wrote him (in  1589)  this  curious and angry
epistle :
—
" Like as tlie Higli Shereef of this Sliyre lately told me that
you pretend my name to be Bagot and not Stafford, whicli un-
trew speeches  you have said unto dyvers  others,  although
som di'onken ignorant Herawld by you corrupted therein, has
soothed your lying, I do therefor answer you that I do better
know the descents and matches of my own lyneage than any
creature can informe me;   for in all my records, pedigrees and
armes, from the first Lord Stafford that was possessed of this
castle afore the Conquest, bearing the very same coate I now
do, the feeld Oould, a Cheveron Gules—I cannot find that any
Stafford married with a Bagot or they with him.  I have faii-e
recorde to prove that the Lords of myhows were never without
heirs male to succeed one after  another,  and therefore  your
pretens in alledginge that Bagot married an ancestor's coief of
mine (as peradventui-e she manned her servant), yet will I prove
that neither she nor no wydow of myhows did take a second
husband before they were grandmothers by the children of their
first husband ;    and therefore the lady of my hows was too old
to have issue by your's.   Beside this, we have been nyne de-
scents Barons and Earls  of Stafford,  before any Bagot was
known in this shire ;    for Busse, Bagot, and Green were but
raised by King Eichard II.   And to prove that you were no
better than vassals to my hows, MyStapfoed Knot remeyneth
 - 267 - 
254         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
still in your parlour ;    as a liundred of my poor tenants tave in
sundry shires of England, and have ever held your land of my
hows, untill thateynder of the Duke my grandfather.  Surely I
will not exchange mynameof Stafford for the nameof a "Bagge
OF Gates," for that is  your name, Bag-OTE.  Therefor you do
meas great wrong in this surmyse as you did with your writing
to the Privy-Counsaile to have countenanced that  shamefast
Higons to charge me with treason, whereofGrod and my trawthe
delyvered me.  Your neighbore I must be.
"Edward Stapeord."
The descendants of Ricliard Bagot may be proud of
his temperate reply :
—
" Right Honorable,—I perceave by your letters delivered to
me by your chajilain Mr. Cope on Monday last, your Lordship
is  greatly discontented with some my speeches used to  Mr.
Stanford in pretending your honor's surname to be Bagot :   I
do confess I spake them ;    and not offending your lordship (as I
hope you will not) with trothe, I do avowe it.    Not upon any
"Dronken Herehaught's report, by me corrupted to soothe my
lieing," but by good records and evidence under ancient scales,
the four hundred years past.   And if it may please you to send
any sufficient  man as Mr. Sheriff, or Mr. Samson Eardswick,
Gentillmen of good knowledge and experience in these ac'cons,
I will shewe them sufficient  matter to  confirme that I have
spoken ;    being very sorry to heare your Lordship to contemne
and deface the Name of Bagot with so bad tirmes and hastie
speeches as you do ;    more dishonourable to yourself than any
blemishe or reproche to me:     and therefore if yourLordship take
it in such disdaine, that I touch you either in credit or honour,
you may (if you please),   by ordinary proces, bring me before the
Et. Hon. the Earl Marshal of England, Chief Judge in these
causes, when I will prove it—or take the discredit, with such
further punishment as his Honorshall inflict upon me.
'
'  Thus humbly desu-eing acceptance of this my answer in
 - 268 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        255
good part, till a further triall be had herein, I do comyt your
Lordship to the protection of AUmighty, this first of March1589.
" Youi' Lordship's at commandment,
'
'   If you please,
"EiCHARD Bagot."
These are  exceedingly curious  illustrations  of the
time.   The " Stafford  Knot " in  " your parlour "
is  a
charming touch for  the way in  which it  brings the
magnificence of the old feudal nobles before one, since
though probably false of the Bagots, it must have been
true of many families  that  they  thus showed their
loyalty to the house of Stafford.   The tone of Kichard
Bagot's answer  is  everything that  could  be  desired
from a gentleman.  Had this dispute reached the ears
of their royal  mistress,  she  would probably have re-
minded them, as  she  did Sir  Philip  Sidney on  his
quarrel with the Earl of Oxford, that when the gentle-
man contends with the nobleman, it  only encourages
the " peasaunt" to presume against both !
We have nothing so piquant to quote as this,  from
the memorials of the Shirleys, or the memorials of the
Howards by the late  Mr. Howard of Corby ;   but we
recommend both these works to such as wish to study
this  class  of literature.*   Mr. Howard's book gives a
clear view of the descent and connections—connections
almost unrivalled in their greatness—of the Howards,
* The extent of my obligations to Mr. Daniel Gurney's excellent
" Recordof the House of Gournay" has been amply indicated elsewhere.
 - 269 - 
256        BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
from the days of the founder (probably of Saxon race)
in  the  time  of  Edward I.     He mentions that  the
portrait of the Earl of Surrey,
—
" Who has not heard of Surrey's fame ?"
—
by  Houbraken,  "is  extremely  like  what  the  late
Lord Henry Howard was at  the  same age."    This
hereditary likeness is one of the commonest phenomena
in the world ;   and is an index of the moral resemblance
which makes character of a particular class run through
a line, and thus, in free countries like  ours,  produces
hereditary politics, and affects the fortunes of the state,
as was the case at Rome.  "A Russell," says Niebuhr,
somewhere, " could  not be  an absolutist ;     the thing
would be  monstrous."  This conviction is,  no doubt,
one excellent reason why liberals glorify the race with
such constancy.   The Rnssells are a better family from
the genealogist's  point of view, than is  generally sup-
posed.   But of Wiffen's  " Memoirs "  of them,  which
appeared in  1833, we are bound to say that the early
part  is  dubious, and the later  part tedious ;    that  a
fatiguing, common-place kind of " eloquence "  is an un-
happy characteristic ;    and that we defy even a Whig to
read it through.   Nay, we would almost stake Dugdale's
Baronage against a copy of it—heavy odds !—that Earl
Russell has not yet read it from cover to cover.   At the
same time, we applaud both Mr. Wiffen's industry, and
the kindness of the Bedford family in encouraging him.
 - 270 - 
BEITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        257
The truth is, that a good history of a powerful house
is  no easy task to get accomplished  Aprivate gentle-
man—peer or commoner—shrinks from  the labour,
even if he does not shrink from the expense.   If he
keeps a tame genealogist on the premises for the pur-
pose, the chances are he obtains a work which nobody
can read except Sir Bernard Burke or  Mr. Planch^,
and which his children view with an awe that in this
enlightened time they do not feel  towards the family
ghost.   Popular writers  have other business.   And so,
stowed away in  massive chests, continue to lie  tons of
parchments  illustrative  of the possessions, marriages,
offices, and deeds of his ancestors ;   the love letters of
long dead generations
;
priceless documents of all kinds
illustrative  of the history of  England.  Indeed, it  is
almost a hopeless task to seek admission into an Evi-
dence Room;    the instant suspicion being that you are
going to  set  up a right  to the estates.   Nor is  this
wonderful, when we remember the absurd  claims  to
honours,  and the fraudulent claims to  lands,  which
are every day made by monomaniacs or swindlers.
When Mr. Drummond published the first  two parts
of his  " Histories of Noble British  Families," we did
not fail to give our hearty support to the undertaking.*
Since that time,  a further portion has been published,
and the work has reached to two volumes—comprising
* "Quarterly Review," vol. Ixxii., p. 165.
 - 271 - 
258        BEITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
Ashburnham, Arden, Compton, Cecil,  Harley, Bruce
;
and Perceval, Dunbar, Hume, Dundas, and Neville.
This splendid work is understood to  have involved a
great cost ;   and we apprehend that it will be continued
no further.   It was suggested by the sumptuous and
luxuriant book on Italian  families by Count Litta of
Milan, and, like it, displays on its rich folio sheets fac-
similes  of  seals,  drawings  of  monuments, gorgeous
heraldry,  and—more  welcome  than  all—beautiful
portraits.    The  pedigrees  have literary  as  well  as
artistic  illustration, are  enriched with historical anec-
dotes, and introduced by agreeable disquisitions.   The
plan, however, is not that of the family history proper,
which we take to be a full  and connected view of a
family with especial reference to its unity andcharacter,
Mr. Drummond's sketches are historical without being
strictly histories.   They are pedigrees with literary em-
blazonment ;   and when we consider the liveliness of the
style, and the loveliness of the ornaments, we welcome
a book which makes a genealogical tree as brilliant
as  a  Christmas one.   But still   more  ought to  be
effected through separate works in a country full of old
families  and great fortunes.   We must add that Mr.
Drummond has his peculiar views of these matters, as
of all  matters ;   that he concedes to  tradition a great
deal more, in certain points, than we should do ;   and
that he is at open war with the antiquaries."
 - 272 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        259
Having reviewed the " Lives of the Lindsays " some
years since in a separate essay,* we are now only called
on to point out its special relation to the genius under
discussion.   To us, then, we may say, that it appears to
unite, more happily than any other performance, the
old sentiment of past days with the knowledge and
clearness of the time in which we live—the heart of
the fifteenth  century with the eyes of the nineteenth.
This is the combinationto be aimed at by the historian,
who should share  the loyalty  of Godscroft  or  Lord
Somerville, while bidding farewell to the " Serpent " or
the " Black-gray man."  Lord Lindsay has an adequate
theme—a family that has " stood against the waves and
weathers of time "  for many centuries—a line  visible,
like a streak of light, away to the time when nearly all
is  dark and shadowy about our Teutonic ancestors
—
Normanin race, leaders in battle, great in rank, alliances,
and possessions, when such were only to be won by the
natural lords ofmankind. Norcan we forbear to note with
satisfaction that a writer so elegant and accomplished
should be the historian of a house which early boasted
an excellent Scottish chronicler in Lindsay of Pitscottie,
and a delightful Scottish humourist in Sir David of the
Mount, and which in modern times, by producing the
ballad of " Auld Robin Gray," and the book before us,
contributes no little to our faith in the hereditarytrans-
*  " Quarterly Review," vol. Ixxvii., p. 465.
s  2
 - 273 - 
260         BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.
mission of qualities and characteristics.   We must not
fail  to  remark, also,  the  honesty with which Lord
Lindsay gives to every branch of his house, poor and
decayed as well as rich and flourishing, its  due place
in the history.   When we take into account all  the
cadets  of a numerous and spreading line, the amount
of service done to a country byone stock, in the labours
of war and peace, can hardly be overrated. Lord Lindsay
tells  us that he found a degree of interest about the
subject among his gens, as he was pursuing the investi-
gation,  much greater than he had expected.   We are
inclined ourselves to believe that there is  a great deal
more care for these matters all over the country, than
is  commonly thought.   And we happen to  know that
the same fact is true of the Americans, few of whom
now visit England without makingpilgrimages to those
parts  of the  island  from which  record  or  tradition
declares their ancestors to have come.  The sentiment
of ancestry, in short,  is  not only inherent  in  human
nature, and especially visible in the higher races of the
world, but contributes in no small degree to the stability
of kingdoms in the worst periods—as, assuredly, it  is
always  found to  be  peculiarly  vivid  in  the  best.
Having  spoken  so  freely  of  the  family  histories
which we possess in Great Britain—and admitting that
they do not adequately represent the strength of the
feeling among ourselves—we cannot conclude without
 - 274 - 
BRITISH FAMILY HISTORIES.        261
hailing it  as a good omen that the latest on our list
should be such an admirable specimen of the class as
the " Lives " of Lord Lindsay.
 - 275 - 
^<s^p
 - 276 - 
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.        2G3
to deal ;    and the recent death of Lord Palmerston had
this, besides so many other points, of higher and more
mournful significance.  When everything else was being
recorded of him, it was also  recorded that he was the
last  male of his  family,—a family of ancient descent,
and of high and long-continued intellectual  distinc-
tion.    The fact  in  itself  touched  the  imagination
of a people so keenly alive to the charm of tradition
as the English.   But those who from an old interest
in such questions had become aware how essentially
Palmerston was a child of his house—a Temple of the
Temples,—naturally felt  the weight of the fact more
vividly :    to  them, his death was the fall of an old tree,
of an old tower—a tree that would give no more fruit,
a tower that would no more shelter human and intel-
lectual life.    Let us place ourselves for a little in the
position of one of these moralising inquires ;    and see
from what kind of stock the late  Premier came, and
how far its  history justifies the old belief that every
family, like  every plant,  has a life  of its  own, and a
likeness running through all its leaves and flowers.
Thanks in great measure to the kind of genealogists
whom we have indicated in the sentence above, most
family histories begin with a fable.   The ancients made
Plato descend from Neptune, Ceesar from Venus, and
Antony from Hercules, just as our own early chronicles
derive  Alfred  from  Woden.   In modern times  our
 - 277 - 
26J.                   THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.
inventions  are  on a humbler scale,  but  are  equally
destitute  of  historical  truth.   We fasten  on to  the
Norman baronage, families that rose by the Reform-
ation ;   and descendants of provincial aldermen, whose
names betray a suspicious connection with the old sport
of  bull-baiting,  occasionally  hold  themselves  up as
representatives  of the  mediaeval  chivalry.   The Ha-
miltons are not content to have helped to put Bruce
on the throne, they must needs be sprung from the
Bellomont Earls of  Leicester.   The Cavendishes are
dissatisfied  with  Wolsey's gentleman-usher,  and lay
claim to be scions of the higher race of Gernon.  It
has been the fortune of  the Temples to  find  them-
selves associated with one of the prettiest legends of
the middle ages, which has formed the subject of one
of the prettiest poems of our own time.   They have
been given out  as corning  from  the stout  old  Earl
Leofric,  of the Confessor's time, and his lady Godgifa
or Godiva, who saved Coventry from a harsh impost by
riding through the market-place clad only in her beau-
tiful  long hair,   Leofric  (who died in A.D. 1057) and
his spouse are, of course, as really historical personages
as the Confessor and Edith.  And though the Godiva
legend  does  not  occur  in  the  Saxon Chronicle,  in
William of Malmesbury, or in Florence of Worcester,
it is  found in Brompton, who flourished in 1193*, less
* Wendover, iu the uext century, adds a slight picturesque touch to
 - 278 - 
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.        265
than a century and a lialf after the date of its heroine.
Nor have we a right to  doubt the truth of any story
simply because there is a noble and daring poetry about
it.    But as regards the descent of the Temples from
Leofric and Godiva, that is  a  comparatively  modem
statement.   Dugdale knew nothing of it,  though he
gives a full  account of the earl's  real  successors  and
family in his Baronage, and much information about
him, his wife, and their pious and generous doings, in
his  Warwickshire.  An earlier writer,  and more im-
portant for this  special question than even Dugdale
—
a writer whose Leicestershire is  said to have suggested
Dugdale's  Warwickshire—knew no more of the fact
than he.    We speak of  William Burton, the  elder
brother of the author of the Anatomy of Melancholy,
to whose curious mind his own bore a strong family
resemblance.  Burton was a Leicestershire squire him-
self,  and in  speaking of the lands  of " Temple "  in
Sparkenhoe hundred, near Bosworth, from which the
whole family of Temple derived its  name, this is what
he tells us :     " This land was granted by one of the old
earls of Leicester to the Knights Templars.  This land
was afterwards granted by the Templars to a family of
the place called Temple, being of great account in those
parts."    (Burton's  Leicestershire,  p.  264).    Burton,
Brompton's narrative.   Her hair, lie  says, 'concealed her,  aU but her
very white legs—apparentihus crurihus cancUdissimis.
 - 279 - 
266         THE FAMILY OF TEMFLE.
then, knew nothing of the Saxon origin of the family
;
and it is certain that in the famous Sir William Tem-
ple's  time  they  looked  upon  themselves  as  having
" come in  with the  Conquest."   It  is  often  loosely
assumed that  a  family  must be  either Norman or
Saxon, though Burgundians and Flemings, Angevins
and Poitevins, are fovnd among the settlers in England
in t1 e stormy and adventurous ages during which the
foundations of its  modern life were laid.   To which of
the various races struggling for place and power the
founder of the Temples belonged cannot nowbe known.
The earliest names in the pedigree, Robert, William, and
Henry, are those of Norman dukes and sovereigns,—an
indication which has sometimes been allowed to have
suggestive value in such cases.  At all eventswe are safe
in assuming that the man to whom the Templars gave
land, would have the qualities which the Order of the
Temple held  in  honour ;    and that  he  acquired  his
estate as his descendant acquired the premiership, by
being superior to other rivals in the battle of life.
Dismissing, then, the descent from Leofric as fabulous
and modern, and trusting to  old  writers  and official
pedigrees, we shall be content to  derive the Temples
from Robertus Temple de Temple Hall, living in the
reign of Henry III.—a date to which only something
like a tenth part of the peerage can be satisfactoril}'-
traced.  Robertus de Temple was succeeded by William,
 - 280 - 
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.         267
and by Henry flourishing in  the  reign of Edward I.,
whose marriage with Matilda, daughter of John Rib-
besford,  is  the  first  that  we find  upon record.   The
five generations which followed allied  themselves with
Langley, Barwell, Dubernon, Bracebridge,  and King-
scott,* and the family ranked among the oldest and
most considerable  of  the  Leicestershire  gentry.   By
siding,  however, with Richard III.,  they lost  most of
their estate.   Soon after the Reformation what was left
came into the possession of some other Temples from
Staffordshire,  carrying different  coat-armour.*|*   And,
at last, they, too, sold both the lands and the hall, and
though some prosperous cadets of the house—such as
the celebrated Sir William and his father—were anxious
to recover it,  they never could.
We must now turn our attention to those cadets, for
it was among them that appeared the eminent men to
whom the name owes its  modern celebrity.   During
the reign of Henry VI., a younger son of Temple of
Temple Hall, named Thomas, settled himself at Witney
in Oxfordshire.   In three generations his  descendants
had acquired land in  Warwickshire, and in  the six-
teenth century his representative  acquired  Stowe in
Buckinghamshire.  This was Peter Temple of Marston-
Boteler in Warwickshire and Stowe in Bucks, Avhose
* Visitation of Leicestershire :     HarL MS. 1180.
+ Burton.
 - 281 - 
268         THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.
eldest son, John, was the ancestor of the Temples of
Stowe, and his second, Anthony, of the Viscounts Pal-
merston.  John lies buried at Derset, in Warwickshire,
with the following  quaint  epitaph,  testifying  to  his
general felicity and opulence :
—
Cur liberos hie plurimos,
Cur hie amieos plurimos,
Et pluriinas peeunias,
Vis scire cur reliquerit ?
Tempellus ad plures abiit.
The son of this prosperous gentleman was Sir Thomas
Temple, of Stowe, the first  baronet.   The second and
third baronets both sat for the town of Buckingham in
the parliaments of the Charleses.   The fourth —Sir
Richard—fought under Marlborough, and was created
Baron Cobham* in 1714, and, in 1718, Viscount Cob-
ham, with  remainder to  his  sister,  Hester,  wife  of
Richard Grenville of Wootton,  This is the Cobham of
Pope's well-known lines :
—
And j'ou, brave Cobham, to the latest Lreath,
Shall feel your ruling passion strong in death :
Such in those moments as in all the past,
Oh, save my country. Heaven!    shall be your last.
Lord Cobham died without issue  in 1749, when his
barony and viscounty devolved on his  sister,  Hester
Grenville, mother of the first  Earl Temple, ancestress
of the Dukes of Buckingham, and, what is  of much
* He chose this title as having a descent from the old Lords Cobham
of Kent, first summoned to Parliament in a.d. 1313.
 - 282 - 
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.         269
more moral interest, grandmother of William Pitt.   If,
again to quote Aristotle, " the having had many illus-
trious persons in the family "  is  a necessary mark of
nobility, then this is  an honour in which the Temples
excel houses of much higher pretension.
While the Temple tree planted in Stowe was thus
flourishing like  a green bay-tree,  the branch sprang
from Anthony, younger son of Peter Temple, first  of
Stowe, had acquired a less splendid position but a more
brilliant name.  Anthony's son William, bred at Eton,
and Fellow of King's College, Cambridge, became, in
the first  half of Elizabeth's reign, master of the free
school at Lincoln.   A Latin essay on a philosophical
subject which he  dedicated, in  1581,  to  Sir  Philip
Sydney, won the admiration of that last  rose of the
summer of chivalry, who took Temple into his employ-
ment as a secretary, and into his intimacy as a friend.
Sir Philip died in his arms at Arnheim, and dying com-
mended him to the Earl of Essex, besides leaving him
by will an annuity of  thirty pounds.  The friend of
Sydney became the friend of Devereux, and having lost
one patron on the  field  lost  another on the scaffold.
After the death of Essex, Temple went to seek his for-
tunes in Ireland.   He became Provost of Dublin Col-
lege, which he represented in the Irish Parliament in
1613.   He was afterwards a Master in Chancery, and a
knight, and he died at an advanced age in 1625.  From
 - 283 - 
270         THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.
this  Sir William Temple, the first of the family con-
nected with Ireland, the late Lord Palmerston was sixth
in descent.   As a Roman would have said, he was the
Premier's tritavus,—a word which we should have to
render  in  English  by gi'eat-great-great-great-grand-
father !          By his wife, a Derbyshire woman, William left
a son, who became Sir John Temple, and who sustained
the intellectual reputation which the family had begun
to  acquire.   He was educated  under his  father  at
Dublin.  He travelled in his youth.   He had access to
the court of Charles the First, and to the gi'eatest per-
sonages of the time, and he continued the family friend-
ship with the  Sydneys.  Sir  Philip's  nephew, Robert
Sydney, was now second Earl of Leicester, " a man of
great parts," says Lord Clarendon, " very conversant in
books, and much addicted to the mathematics."  In the
Sydney Papers we find  the  countess writing  to  her
husband (a.d. 1636) of " Sir John Temple, who is in-
quisitive  in all  affairs,  and  much  your  servant."
There were tender associations  between Temple and
the earl's family.   Sir John had married Esther Ham-
mond, a sister of Dr. Hammond the celebrated divine.
The doctor held the living of Penshurst, and at Pens-
hurst Temple lost his wife.   " Your Penshurst," Temple
writes to the earl in 1638, " was the place where God
saw fitt  to take from me the desire of mine eyes and
the most sweet companion of my life ;    a place that
 - 284 - 
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.         271
must never be forgotten by me, not only in regard of
those blessed ashes that ly now treasured up there, and
my desire that by your lordship's favour, cumfatalis et
meus dies venerit, I may return to that dust, but in
respect  also of the extraordinary civilities  I then re-
ceived from your incomparable lady."   He goes on to
show how tenderly Lady Leicester (a  Percy, and the
mother of Algernon Sydney) had behaved at this great
crisis, which all readers of her letters will readily believe.
Sir John Temple also writes to the earl from Berwick,
where he had accompanied the Court when the king
was marching against and negotiating with the Scots
;
and on another occasion urges him to try for the Secre-
taryship of State, likely to be vacated by the resigna-
tion of Sir John Coke.   " And further give me leave,"
writes he, " to tell your lordship that I think this the
proper time to  move in, and that I  find such stirring
now at Court, as I apprehend him not long-lived in his
place.   So as if you neglect now to stir, you will have
some evil angel take the opportunity while the waters
are troubled to  help in some stigmatick or otherwise
infirni person."   There is a touch of the family wit as
of the family shrewdness here ;    but Sir John Temple
found an opportunity of showing still  higher qualities.
The Earl of Leicester went to Ireland as lord-lieutenant,
and appointed Temple (who was knighted in 1640) to
an important post.   A heavy responsibility,  to which
 - 285 - 
272         THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.
he was not unequal, fell  upon him when the rebellion
broke out.   Afterwards, when Leicester was succeeded
by Ormond, Temple was imprisoned for opposing the
cessation which Ormond was commanded to make with
the rebels.   This attracted the favourable attention of
the Parliament to him, and in 1644 he was exchanged,
and made a commissioner in Munster.  Never an ex-
treme man however, he was dismissed for voting that
the king's proposals from the Isle of Wight were suffi-
cient grounds for peace.   Later, he was both employed
and rewarded by Cromwell, but that did not hinder
him from prospering under the Restoration.   He was
Master of the Rolls,  privy councillor,  treasurer,  and
enjoyed an opulent, and, we are expressly told,  ''hos-
pitable" old age.   He died in 1677.  Sir John Temple,
besides being a politician, was the author of a History
of the Irish Rebellion.   It  has  always received the
praise of veracity, and one cannot look into it without
seeing that the writer was a scholar and a man of sense.
What is  worthy of notice also,  is,  that it  is  written
strictly from the point of view of an Englishman, and of
an Englishman who had no great respect for the Irish
race.
The eldest son of Sir John Temple and Esther Ham-
mond was the famous Sir William Temple, who con-
tinued to  be the most widely-known man that ever
bore the ancient name till  the days of the third Lord
 - 286 - 
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.         278
Palmerston.  Born in London in 1628, lie was educated
at Penshurst, at Bishop Stortford,  and at  Cambridge
under Cudworth, and then set  out to  travel  on the
Continent.   In passing  through  the  Isle  of  Wight,
where  the  king was then imprisoned, he  made the
acquaintance of Dorothy Osborne, the daughter of Sir
Peter Osborne, governor of Guernsey for his  Majesty.
The youth's father was in the Long Parliament ;    the
young lady's father was a cavalier.   Sir John desired a
greater match for his son ;    Sir Peter desired a greater
match for his daughter ;   and their engagement, opposed
on both sides, lasted for seven years.   During part of
this time, William Temple lived in France, where he
mastered the French, and in  the Low Countries and
Germany, where he mastered the Spanish language.
He was married at last in 1654, and took up his  abode
with his affectionate and sprightly Dorothy in Ireland.
His head-quarters were in the county of Carlow, where
he lived on a moderate income, and spent much of his
time in reading, and doubtless in forming that graceful
and pleasant style which entitles him to rank among
the founders of polite  English prose.   Happy in  his
marriage, he was most unfortunate in the health of his
children,  five  of whom died  in  as many years.   The
Restoration brought Temple into public life.   When an
Irish  Parliament was called, he was chosen with his
father for the county of Carlow, and soon attracting the
T
 - 287 - 
274         THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.
attention  of  the  new  lord-lieutenant,  the  Duke of
Ormond, was introduced by him to the powerful mi-
nister, Lord Arlington.  His first employment arose out
of the first  of the Dutch wars of this reign, when he
was sent  to  negotiate  with  our  ally  the Bishop of
Munster.  His success brought him a baronetcy and
the post of Resident at Brussels, in which city he was
when in  1667 the  French invaded  Flanders.   The
power of Lewis now began to alarm Europe.  Charles II.
had not yet become quite his tool ;   and Temple was
sent to the Hague to  conclude with Sweden and Hol-
land the great negotiation known as the Triple Alliance,
which gave a check to  the French plans.   He now
became ambassador at the Hague, and made the friend-
ship of De Witt and of the young Prince of Orange.
He remained there till  French intrigues had reversed
the English policy, and driven us into a w^ar with our
recent and most natural ally.   Temple at once retii'ed
to his house at  Sheen, his gardens, and his books, and
employed himself in writing his excellent Observations
on the United Provinces, which the Dutch still  cherish
and make a  student's  text-book,  after  the  author's
countrymen have ceased to read it.     From this retreat
he was summoned in the autumn of 1673 to conclude
a peace with Holland ;    and next year went there again
as ambassador extraordinary to mediate for a general
peace, which after much delay was brought about by
 - 288 - 
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.         275
the treaty of Nimeguen.  It  was at  this  period, too,
that he took an important part in bringing about the
marriage of the  Prince of Orange with  the Princess
Mary, which had such  vital  consequences for  Great
Britain.
Up to this time the public life of Sir William Temple
had been on the whole eminently successful.   He had
conducted negotiations of the first  consequence, which
will always preserve his reputation in the highest rank
of diplomatists.  He had won the esteem and confidence
of the greatest statesmen in Europe.  His public cha-
racter was not only lofty but pure ;   his private character
undeniably, and for  that age,  even singularly respect-
able.   He might have been expected to have risen a
few grades more, and to have left  the name of a mi-
nister inferior in parts to none, superior in character to
all  of the ministers his contemporaries.   But he had
now culminated.   The stormiest part of Charles II.'s
reign had come, and he shrank from the helm.  He was
elected to Parliament for the University of Cambridge,
and he did  nothing in  Parliament.   He invented a
scheme for  a new constitution of the  council,  which
would not work, and soon found that his  colleagues
were tired of him, and that the king was content he
should go.   Accordingly he retired once more, sick  of
the worry of public affairs, to the country, and fixed his
residence at Moor Park, near Farnham, in Surrey.   " I
T 2
 - 289 - 
276         THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.
had learned," he says,  " by Kving long in  Courts and
public affairs, that I was fit to live no longer in either.
I found the arts of a Court were contrary to the frank-
ness and openness of my nature, and the constraint of
public business too great for the liberty of my humour
and mylife.    The common and proper ends of both are
the advancement of men's fortunes, and that I never
minded, having as much as I needed, and what is more,
as  I  desired         I knew very well the Arts of a
Court are to talk  the present language, to serve the
present turn, and to follow the present humour of the
prince, whatever it  is.    Of all these I found myself so
incapable that I  could not talk a language I did not
mean, nor serve a turn I  did not like, nor follow any
man's humour wholly against my own.  Besides, I have
had in twenty years' experience enough of the uncer-
tainty of princes, the caprices of fortune, the corruption
of ministers, the violence of factions, the unsteadiness
of councils, and the infidelity of friends ;   nor do I think
the rest of my life  enough to  make any new experi-
ments."*  There is  a deep tinge of discontent in this
passage, characteristic of Temple, and a right  under-
standing of  which is  necessary if we would do  him
justice.   His professed love of retirement and indepen-
dence was no pretence.   It can be proved that he was
a more honest and patriotic public man than most of
* Temple's " Memoirs," part 3.
 - 290 - 
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.         277
his contemporaries, and that he declined offices  which
would have put him all but at the head of the kingdom.
Yet, if philosophy went for something in his withdrawal
from politics, so did a certain want of moral stamina,
and a conscious unfitness to meet the Essexes, Halifaxes,
and Shaftesburys with the weapons which were alone
of any use against competitors of their stamp.   The
distinctive  ^dos of the Temples has been a union of
more than usual of the kind of talent which makes men
of letters, with more than usual of the kind of talent
which makes men of business.   The secretary of Essex
began with  philosophy  and  prospered  in  life ;      Sir
William, too,  prospered in life,  and liked philosophy.
But with a larger share of literary genius than any
other Temple, Sir William had a correspondingly larger
share of sensitiveness, and did not,—like his father,  for
instance,—take heartily to the rough work of his voca-
tion,  and carry himself successfully through its  trials.
He loved the retirement of which he talked so much,
sincerely, but not enough ;    and had a hjinkering after
the gi'eat world of action that he had quitted, which
was often too strong not only for  his philosophy, but
(through its  action on his temper) for the comfort of
those who lived with him;   as Swift in his youth exjDe-
rienced.   " He had an extraordinary life  and spirit in
his humour," says his  sister,  Lady Giffard,  " with so
agreeable turns of wit and fancy in his  conversation.
 - 291 - 
278         THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.
that nobody was welcomer in all sorts of company, and
some have ohserved, that he never had a mind to make
anybody kind to  him, without compassing his  de-
signs."   But the same superior and sensible woman,
while again describing his  " humour "  as " gay," adds
that it was " very unequal, from cruel fits of spleen and
melancholy; "  the philosopher being, it seems, " subject
to  great damps from the sudden changes of weather,
but chiefly from the crosses and surprising turns in his
business, and disappointments he met with so often in
his  endeavours to contribute to the honour and service
of his country, which he thought himself two or three
times so near compassing, that he could not think with
patience of what had hindered it,  or of those that he
thought had been the occasion of his disappointment."
In short,  he was only half happy in  his  own ideally
happy life.    He loved to  thick that he was enjoying
the  intellectual  Horatian  calm.   He translated  the
Tyrrhena regum progenies,  and called  on Maecenas
to
—
t
Leave fulsome palaces for awhile, and come
From stately palaces that tower so high,
Ami spread so far ;   the dust and business fly,
The smoke and noise of mighty Rome,
And cares that on embroidered carpets lie.
But his secret and, probably, half unconscious wish was
to be Horace and Maecenas both in one.   He liked to
feel that he was enjoying the air from the Sabine Hills
 - 292 - 
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.        279
and the fresh communion with the sages of Greece, the
rather that the pleasure was a pleasure of which only
wise men are capable.   But he had also a strong, un-
quiet longing for  the Palatine, an uneasy desire to  be
keeping the Parthians in order, and making his voice
heard amidst the snows of the  Tanais.   No man so
divided in feeling and haunted by so many dissatisfied
regrets, could be quite happy in the pleasantest retreat.
And, whether at  Sheen or Moor Park, the retreat of
Temple was eminently pleasant.  His orange trees were
only rivalled at Fontainebleau and in one spot of Hol-
land; his peaches—by the admission of Frenchmen
—
equalled those of Gascony ;    and Italians agreed that at
least his white figs  bore comparison with any produced
on the south of the Alps.-'   His garden at Moor Park
was bounded by a canal in the Dutch fashion, which
had the double merit of pleasing his eye and recalling
the days of De Witt and the Triple Alliance.   But, in
spite of all  this,  and of his lettered recreation, which
was a higher kind of gardening in  its way, and of the
love and affection of sister and wife, a sly east wind or
a provoking recollection of Arlington's treachery would
poison everything for him for days.   Then he was very
subject to the gout, which had come to him, he tells us,
" from many ancestors," and which fell upon him at the
* Temijle's  " Essay upon tlie  Gardens of Eincurus,  or of Garde'U-
 - 293 - 
280         THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.
Hague when he was on his last mission.   At first he
found great relief from 7}ioxa, an Indian moss recom-
mended to him by a Dutch gentleman, and which used
to  be burnt against the part affected.   But the disease
recurred through  life,  and,  helped  by "the spleen,"
caused Sir William many a  sad  hour.   " Don't  you
remember," Swift writes to Stella,  " how I used to be
in pain when Sir William Temple would look cold and
out of humour for  three or four days, and I  used to
suspect a hundred reasons ?    I have plucked up my
spirits  since then, faith ;   he spoiled a fine gentleman."
Temple had, indeed, some of  the  most disagreeable
features of " a disappointed man"  in his old age, and,
of all human beings. Swift was the one to whom such a
contact was most pernicious.   Yet—not to overlook the
great intellectual  benefit  that Swift derived from his
residence with Temple, so justly pointed out by Lord
Macaulay—it  is further satisfactory to remember that
the last years of their intercourse were happier than
the first.    Temple must have come to see Swift's merit
before he introduced him to King William (of whom
the dean used to tell  that he taught him to cut aspa-
ragus in the Dutch fashion), and before he committed
to him the charge of his literary remains.
The works of Sir William Temple are little read now-
a-days, a neglect which he shares with greater men.
Upon the whole both Macaulay and Thackeray have
 - 294 - 
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.         28i
lowered his reputation too far  in the eyes of the great
multitude which never looks into  such questions for
itself    His  learning  was superficial ;      his  style  has
become old-fashioned ;    and  few take  the  trouble  to
examine the merits of a prose, which, written before the
days of Addison or Steele, combines much of the dignity
of Clarendon with much of the ease of Dryden.  Those
who do will be amused to  find here and there, among
other  qualities,  the  shrewd  worldly  philosophy  and
common-sense,  the  airy  social  jocosity,  with  which
England was so  familiar from the  lips  of the  other
Temple who has just joined Sir William in the Abbey.
The following passages from Sir William's chapter on
the religion of the  Netherlands anticipate all the now
hacknied  philosophy  of  toleration,  and  have points
which Lord Palmerston might have pricked into some
ignorant  Scotch presbytery,  resisting  his  counsel  to
them not to encourage cholera by dirt with the inten-
tion of averting it  by sham fasting and ungrammatical
prayer :
—
Now the way to our future happiness has been perpetually
disputed throughout the world, and must be left  at last to the
impressions made upon every man's belief and conscience, either
by natural or supernatural arguments and means, wliich im-
pressions men may disguise or  dissemble,  but no man can
resist.   For belief is no more in a man's power than his statiu'O
or his feature ;    and he that tells me I must change my ojiinions
for his, without other arguments that have to me the force of
 - 295 - 
283         THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.
conviction, may as 'well tell me I must change my grey eyes for
others like his that are black, because these are lovelier or in
more esteem.  He that tells  me I  must inform myseK, has
reason if I do it not.   But if  I endeavour it all that I can, and
perhaps more than he ever did, and yet still  differ from him ;
and he, that, it maj be, is idle, will have me studj' on, and in-
form myself better, and so to the end of my life ;    then I easily
understand what he means by informing, which is in short that
I must do it till I come to be of his opinion              Aman
that tells memyopinions are absurd or ridiculous, impertinent
or unreasonable, because they differ fi-om his, seems to intend a
quarrel instead of a dispute, and calls me fool or madman with
a little  more circumstance, though perhaps I pass for  one as
well in my sense as he             Yet these are the common
civilities,  in religious arguments, of sufficient  and conceited
men, who talk much of right reason, and mean always their
own, and make their private imagination the measure of general
truth.   But such language determines all between us, and the
dispute comes to an end in these words at last, which it might as
well have ended in at first, that he is in the right, and I am in
the wrong
Nor could I even understand how those who call themselves,
and the world usually calls religions men, come to put so great
weight upon those points of belief which men never have agreed
in, and so little upon those of virtue and moralitj'' in which they
have hardly ever disagreed.*
The foi^m of such passages as these is old-fashioned.
But the  spirit  is  essentially modern, and is  the same
spirit of critical, but not irreverent common-sense, which
made  Lord  Palmerston  for  a  long time  peculiarly
distasteful to fanatics.    Sir William  Temple, in con-
*  " Observatio.is upon the United Provinces of the Netherlands,"
cap. 6.
 - 296 - 
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.        283
sequence  of  such writing,  and  of  his disposition for
handling- such questions in the tone of a man of the
world, was called an " Epicurean,"—a title which was
bestowed  in  its   bad  acceptation, but which he was
quite content to bear, and indeed assumed to himself,
in its good one.
The last  years  of  Sir William  Temple were  dis-
turbed  by family  losses  and  bodily  infirmity.    He
long survived a beloved daughter.   His only son died
before  him.   His wife  died in  1694.    The  natural
toughness of the stock carried  him on to his seven-
tieth, as it  had his father to his seventy-seventh year,
and the end came in  1698.   He was buried in West-
minster Abbey, according to the subjoined  directions
in his will :
—
I do order my body to be interred in tbe West He of West-
minster Abbey, near tbose two dear pledges, mywife and my
daughter Diana, that lye there already, and that after mine and
my sister Giffard's decease, a large stone of black marble may
be set up against the wall, with this inscription :
—
SIBI SUISQUE CHARISSIMIS
DIAN-E TEMPLE DILECTISSIM^ FILIiE,
DOEOTHE^ OSBOKN CONJUIfCTISSIM^ CONJUGI,
ET MARTHA GIFFAED OPTIMiE SORORI,
HOC QUAXECTINQUE MONUMENTUil
PONI CUEAVIT
GUEIELMUS TEIIPLE BAEONETTUS.
Lady Giffard died in 1722, when the monument was
placed where Temj)le had desired.
 - 297 - 
2S4         THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.
The son who died in Temple's hfe-time had married
a French lady, by whom he left  two daughters, one of
whom became the wife of her cousin, a son of Sir John
Temple, and the other of Bacon of Shrubland in Suffolk.
Both lines  failed between Sir William's age and our
own :    and he was represented by the late Lord Palmer-
ston, a lineal descendant of his younger brother.*
This younger brother was Sir John Temple, who is
spoken of as " the best lawyer in Ireland."   He sat for
Carlow, was Speaker of the Irish House of Commons
before he was thirty, and was long first  solicitor  and
then Attorney-General in the sister kingdom.  It was
to him that Ai'chbishop Sheldon paid, what has justly
been called, for an archbishop, the " singular compli-
ment " that " he had the curse of the Gospel, because
all men spoke well  of him.^'   What we know of him
shows that he had the talent and the personal popu-
larity of his  line.   His wife was the daughter of Sir
Abraham Yarner, muster-master-general  for  Ireland.
He died in East Sheen, Surrey, in 1704.
To Sir John succeeded his son Henry, created Vis-
count Palmerston in  1722.   In the  preamble to  his
patent he is  said to be come of illustrious ancestors
;
* Courtenay's " Memoirs of Sir William Temple."  Of course it  is
not our business, in a paper like tliis,  to trace out every Temple that
may possibly exist,  but only the lines from which distinguished men
have come.
 - 298 - 
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.        285
and it  is  added that his  grandfather and father had
discharged pubUc duties in Ireland with fidehty, pru-
dence, and abstinence
—
" prceclaris ortum majorihus,"
" avus et pater muneribus in Hiberniajpublicis Jlde,
jprudentia et  ahstinentia functi sunt."   His wife was
Anne, daughter of Abraham Houblon of London,—the
Temple marriages  being  nearly  always,  it  is  worth
remarking,  with  Englishwomen, and  with  English-
women of the middle class.   The first viscount sat in
Parliament for East Grinstead from 1727 to  1732; for
Bossiney in 1734 ;    for Weobley in 1741.   His life was
prolonged till  the year 1757, when he died at Chelsea
at the great age of eighty-four.   He was succeeded by
his  grandson,  the  second  viscount,—^his   son  Henry
having died before him, leaving an heir by his second
wife, the daughter of Barnard, Lord Mayor of London.
The  second  viscount,  father  to  the  late  Prime
Minister,  seems to  have been a true  Temple of  the
lighter and gayer Temple pattern.   There are different
kinds of family likenesses ;    in some men the graver
and solider, in others, the more brilliant aspects of the
line  are  reproduced.   Lord Palmerston  was in  the
Admiralty from 1766 to 1777.   But during the greater
part of that period our Navy had little to do the doing
of which  could be much affected  by Admiralty ad-
ministration.   And at the end of it, such events as Sir
Peter Parker's failure before Charleston (July, 1776),
 - 299 - 
286         THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.
were not calculated to throw a dorious licjht  on the
government under which they had been undertaken.
Horace Walpole, writing  to  Mason in  1778,  quotes,
with much applause, a little sketch of Lord Palmerston,
by Tickell,  the grandson of Addison's friend,* and a
wit of that period of real merit.   " Lord Palmerston,"
says "Walpole, citing Tickell, ''fineers (what an admir-
able word) rebuses and charades with chips of poetry
;
and when Lord of the Admiralty, like Ariel, wrecked
navies with a song ;—sure that is  an excellent appli-
cation."   He is  elsewhere mentioned by Walpole as a
patron of art ;     as a writer of verses sometimes good,
sometimes bad ;     as a gviest  at  Topham Beauclerk's,
talking loud in the presence of Garrick,  Burke, and
Gibbon ;    as a dilettante of rank, in fact,  with brains
enough to admire brains, but not enough to be dis-
tinguished for them.  A greater and an honester man
than Walpole seems, however, to have liked him.   " On
Tuesday," writes Johnson to Boswell, in July, 1783, " I
took an airing to Hampstead, and dined with The Club,
where Lord Palmerston was proposed, and against my
advice rejected."!   But, indeed,  no competent judge
will  deny the possession of superior talent,  nay of a
fine  and delicate kind of talent, to the author of the
following :
—
* And maternal grandfather, we believe, of Mr. Eoebuck.
t He was elected afterwards, as Bcswell tells us.
 - 300 - 
THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.        287
Inscriptive Verses written by a Gentleman whose Lady
DIED AT Bristol Wells.
Whoe'er, like me, with trembling anguish brings
His heart's whole treasure to fair Bristol's springs
;
Whoe'ei', like me, to soothe disease and pain,
Shall pour these salutary waves in vain
;
Condemned, like me, to hear the faint r"eply,
To mark the fading cheek, the sinking eye,
From the thill brow to wipe the damp of death.
And watch with dumb despair the shortening breath
;
If chance direct him to this artless line,
Let the sad mourner know his griefs were mine.
Ordained to lose the partner of my breast,
Whose beauty warmed me, and whose friendship blest,
Framed every tie that binds the soul, to prove
Her duty friendship, and her friendship love.
Yet soon remembering that the parting sigh
Ordains the just to slumber, not to die,
The starting tear I checked, I kissed the rod,
And not to earth resigned her, but to God.*
The second Viscount Palmerston was twice married.
His first wife, a daughter of Sir Francis Poole, of Poole,
in Cheshire, died, leaving no issue, in 1769.   He mar-
ried again, at Bath, in 1783, Miss Mary Mee, described
as daughter of Benjamin Mee, Esq., of that city, who
was mother of the  statesman just dead.   The second
viscount died in Hanover Square in 1802, when little
more than sixty years of age.
It  is  no part  of  our  present  plan  to  write  the
biography, or discuss the career, of the third Viscount
* First  printed  in the  "Gentleman's Magazine," for  May, 1777.
The question of Lord Palmerston's authorship having been mooted in
" Notes and Queries," the lines were assigned to him,  " on the best
authority," by Mr. Wilson Croker.
 - 301 - 
288         THE FAMILY OF TEMPLE.
Palmerston so  recently taken away.  To us,  for  our
immediate pui'poses, he is  neither a Whig nor a Tory,
but a Temple,
—
" the last fruit off an old tree," as Mr.
Landor called his latest  book—the final  product of a
race of English gentry.   We have sketched the persons
and fortunes  of his house, to  show that the kind of
strength, and sagacity, liveliness of mind, and felicity
of temperament, which made his success, were really
the sources of the success of his ancestry ;   and that, if
he was emphatically English, it was by dint of being in
his own person a bit of English history.   The lesson of
such a narrative will not be useless, if it helps to show
how subtly one age connects itself with another, and
repeats itself in another ;   and how often what we are
apt to think the most characteristic men and things of
our own time, spring from roots deeply embedded in
the past.
THE END.
BBADBURY, EVANS, AND CO. ,   PRINTERS, AVHITEFRIAKS.
/?">~fl   •'O ?
 - 302 - 
 - 303 - 
 - 304 - 
 - 305 - 
 - 306 - 
 - 307 - 
 - 308 - 
