


  








    Deeds: A.6401 - A.6500 | British History Online
    


      




    
    
    
    
    



  Skip to main content



  
    





  
    
          
  
    
  
      
      BHO | British History Online
    
      
  


    
                      
    Main navigation
    
  
  
        

  
    
      
    
    
                    
              
                  Browse Catalogue
                      
          
                  Subject guides
                      
          
                  Using BHO
                      
          
                  About
                      
          
                  Subscribe
                      
          
                  News
                      
        
  
    
  


  


    
                      
    Login
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Login
              
          
        Register
              
        
  


  



    
  

  
  

  

  

  

  

    

      
      
      
            
  
    
        ';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
    Breadcrumb
    
          
                  Home
              
          
                  A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds
              
        
  

  


  
    
      
  Deeds: A.6401 - A.6500



  

  
    
      

  
    A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4. 

    
    Originally published by His Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1902.

    
  



    This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 
    



  
    
      Citation:
        
          BHO
          Chicago
          MLA		
        
    
    
      
'Deeds: A.6401 - A.6500', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4, ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1902), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol4/pp34-46 [accessed 3 July 2026].
    


    
      
'Deeds: A.6401 - A.6500', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4. Edited by   H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1902), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
 https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol4/pp34-46.
    


    
      
"Deeds: A.6401 - A.6500". A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4. Ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London, 1902), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol4/pp34-46.
    


  
  
    
  

  
    

  

            
        Keyword Highlight
        
        Search
        
      
     
    
            
  



A.6401 - A.6500





[Surrey.]

A. 6401. Grant by Edmund Scopeham, gentleman, to John Wrey, of a
tenement with a garden in Shene alias Richemount, extending from the
high road to the wall of the Friars Observant; with letter of attorney
authorising William Thursby to deliver seisin. 22 January, 18 Henry VII.
Seal.



[Warw.]

A. 6402. Grant by Richard de Montefort, to Simon Felton of Henleye,
and Alice his wife, of a messuage with a curtilage in Henleye, extending
from the street to a stream running from the sluices (clusis) of the mill
called 'le Parkmulle'; also land in the field of Wotton called 'Botteforde
buttes.' Wednesday, Michaelmas day, 46 Edward III. Seal of arms.



Heref. Salop. Worc.

A. 6403. Grant by Thomas Lucy, knight, to John Baldewyn,
William Fermour, John Densell, William Sawnders, esquires, Richard
Wayman, William Browne, merchant of the Staple of Calais, John Peryent,
and Nicholas Helyn, of the manors of Kyngston and Bodnam, co Hereford,
Hykford Middelton, co. Salop, and Byshampton, co. Worcester, with all his
[Page 035]
other lands and tenements, advowsons of churches and chantries &c. in
the places named above; to the uses specified in certain indentures made
between the said Thomas and one Richard Fermour, merchant of the Staple
of Calais; with letter of attorney authorising John Smythe and John
Bawght to deliver seisin. Last day but one of August, 17 Henry VIII.
Signatures of Brown and Densell.



Linc. Notts.

A. 6404. Agreement between Sir Aymer de Valence, earl of Pem-
broke, and John Darcy, viz. that the said earl will enfeoff the said John
in tail, of the fords of the Trent belonging to the earl's manors of Gey-
nesburgh and Doneham, until the said earl shall enfeoff the said John, in
tail, of 20 marks in land or rent, otherwise secured, in return for which the
said John, within the quinzaine of Easter next, is to take up knighthood,
and during his life, serve the said earl in peace or war, at home or abroad,
and in going to the Holy Land when required, &c. Hertford, 10 April, 3
Edward [I.].




A. 6405. Acquittance by brother Hildebrand Inge, Turcopolier (Tri-
coplerium) of Rhodes, for 464l. 10s. 4½d., received from the King, by the
hands of Sir John Waltham, bishop of Salisbury, and treasurer of England,
in which sum the King was bound to brother Robert Halez, late prior of the
hospital of St. John of Jerusalem in England. Clerkenwell, 18 Richard II.
Seal of arms.



[N'hamp.]

A. 6406. Release by Ralph son and heir of Ralph le Botiler, of
Northkelingworth, to Alice late the wife of Thomas de Craunford of Yelver-
toft, of all his right in a messuage and land in Yelvertoft. Saturday, the
feast of St. Hilary, 3 Edward III.



N'hamp. Warw.

A. 6407. Bond by William Goughe of Ashbie Legers, husbandman,
to William Catesby of Bushwood, knight, for 20l. 10 April, 21 Elizabeth.
Seal.

Underwritten: Names of witnesses to sealing and delivery.

Endorsed: Condition of above bond witnessing, that if the said William
Goughe shall perform the covanants contained in a pair of indentures of
demise, of even date, then the above bond shall be void.



[Warw]

A. 6408. Bond by William Athewyk and Lewis Cardian alias
Cardigan, to John de Catesby, for 100l. to be paid at the feast of the Holy
Trinity next. 28 April, 22 Richard II. Seal of arms (Ladbrooke) and seal.



[N'hamp.]

A. 6409. Grant by William de Buckeby and Benedict his brother,
dwelling in Weleton, to John Malorre, lord of Weleton, and Sarah his wife,
of a house with land and a curtilage in Weleton, which the grantors bought
from Richard de Duston. Monday after St. Euphemia the Virgin, 9
Edward II.



[N'hamp.]

A. 6410. Grant by Robert de Welleton, dwelling in Daventre, to
John Mallori of Welleton, of land in Welleton, part above 'le benche,' which
is the headland on which the land of the lord abuts, and part upon Foules-
wellehul. Witnesses:—John son of Philip de Daventre, Simon de Twe of
Welleton, and others (named). Seal.



[Warw.]

A. 6411. Grant by John Scyflet of Hatton, to Elyas, brother of
Simon de la Grene, of the same, of land in Hatton, lying on the tillage
called 'Nepforlong,' adjoining land held by the prior of Stodley, and extend-
ing to a meadow called 'Lynworthing.' Witnesses:—Simon de la Grene,
William de Alveston, and others (named).

[Page 036]


[N'hamp.]

A. 6412. Grant by Nicholas de Flore, the abbot, and the convent of
St. James without Northampton, to Emma, late the wife of Edmund de
Watteford, and to Edmund, son and heir of Edmund de Watteford, of
land in Watteford, lying [in] Wylfurlong, in exchange for other land in
Watteford, on Grotenecroft. St. Vincent's day, 31 Edward I.



[N'hamp.]

A. 6413. Demise by Roger and Nicholas, sons of Edmund de Watford,
to William son of Richard Saunsum of Watford, for the lives of the grantors,
of a messuage and land in Watford. Tuesday, the feast of St. Botolph, 28
Edward III.



Oxford.

A. 6414. Agreement between Richard Fytzhugh and William Cates-
bye, esquires, that the said Richard shall suffer William Hodges, gentleman,
and Richard Townesend to recover against him by writ of entry sur disseisyn
in the post in the Common Pleas, the manor of Wallcott, with messuages,
cottages, and lands, &c. in Walcott, Charleburye and Shorthampton; also
that if, aftor the said recovery, the said manor and lands, &c., should be
lawfully recovered from the possession of the said Fytzhugh, by any person
except such as may recover the same from the said Catesbye or by title from
Sir Richard Catesbye, knight, deceased, then the said Fytzhugh shall not
sue the said Catesbye for any recompence, &c. 1 April, 17 Elizabeth.
English. Signature and seal of arms (Fytzhugh).

Endorsed: Names of witnesses to sealing and delivery.



Hants.

A. 6415. Bond by the mayor, burgesses, and commonalty, of Crist-
churche, to the King, for 1000l. to be paid at Michaelmas next. 13
September, 2 Henry VII. Seal, injured.

Underwritten: Condition, in English, of above bond, witnessing that if
the above bound parties shall perform the covenants contained in a pair of
indentures of even date, made between them and the King, then the above
bond shall be void.



[N'hamp.]

A. 6416. Grant by Amice, wife of William Vincent, of Welleton,
to William Ketelbernt, of land lying on Longeforlong, towards Welleton,
and extending towards the road from Brantuston. Witnesses:—Richard
Martin, Robert de Duston, and others (named).



[Warw.]

A. 6417. Release by William le Vyneter of Lodbrok, to Thomas atte
Chircheyerd of Solihull, and Alice his wife, and the right heirs of
Thomas, of his right in 6s. 8d. rent, which they were wont to receive from
John le Mareschal of Coventre and Agnes his wife on account of the dower
held by them of his inheritance. Westminster, Thursday after Midsummer,
18 Edward II. Seal.



Warw.

A. 6418. Release by John Broune of Warrewyke to John de Catesby
of Assheby Leger, co. Northampton, of his right in a moiety of the manor
of Lappeworth, late belonging to Philip Aylesburey and Agnes his wife, in
her right. Tuesday after Michaelmas, 7 Henry V. Seal.



[N'hamp.]

A. 6419. Grant by Robert Attebruge, to Sir John Mallore of Weletone,
of a half acre of his arable there for a half acre lying on the Hore Ston,
next land of William Kitelbern, the field of Draitone, and 'la dede cherl.'
Friday before St. Simon and St. Jude, 16 Edward I. Seal.



[Hants.]

A. 6420. Grant by Benedict de Haveresh [am], son of Robert, to Henry
son of Richard son of Daniel, of that part of his land of Museclive which is
called 'Cuwich',' with the men who hold it (named), and all their issue;
also land in Mukeleshulle which Denise the widow holds, and the said
[Page 037]
Denise with all her issue, and the meadow of Jewode; the grantee to render
the twentieth part of the service of one knight's fee. Witnesses:—G. prior
of Southwick (Suwic'), Alexander de Burh', Richard de Holehirst, and others
(named). Seal defaced.



[Glouc.]

A. 6421. Grant by William Steyt of Thornbury, to John Morton,
clerk, of a void piece of land in the high, street of Thornbury. 15 Novem-
ber, 8 Henry VI.



[N'hamp.]

A. 6422. Grant by Henry le Champioun of Weleton, to Thomas the
tailor (cissori), of the same, of land in Weleton, part at 'le Weyetuesel,' part
at Cockesmedeoverende, in the west field, and part at Mathewether in the
south field. Sunday after St. Augustine, 5 Edward II.



[N'hamp.]

A. 6423. Grant by Edmund de Watford, to Nicholas de Watford, his
son, of land in Watford in 'le Hoverende mede,' lying by a meadow of the
abbot of St. James' without Northampton, which the grantor had of the
feoffment of William Chaumburleyn; with further grant of the reversion
of certain land held for her life by Eda, late the wife of the said William.
Friday after St. Margaret the virgin, 14 Edward III.



[Warw.]

A. 6424. Release by Adam son of Richard Haldeyn of Coventre, to
Henry of Coventre, called the baker, of all his right in 8d. yearly rent from a
curtilage in Coventre. Witnesses:—Martin Colebront, Thomas Oky, and
others (named).



[Warw.]

A. 6425. Grant by Ranulf de Franketon to Nicholas son of Warin, of
land in Covintre, part extending from the waste garden to the great house
where the grantor's father used to live. Witnesses:—Robert de Corleya,
Anketin de Wykewan, William de Pailinton, and others (named).



[N'hamp.]

A. 6426. Grant by Sarah, late the wife of Henry Roter of Welton,
to Thomas, son of Henry le Eyr, of the same, of land in Welton, part
lying on Gruthamweye, part on Langeforlong, part on Longecleyforlong,
part on Sherte Cleyforlong, part on Orochoo, part 'undur le Hoo,' part
under Tonestale, and part in 'tho Bonesewelle,' with the reversion of land
in 'tho Culeswelle' after the death of Anastasia, late the wife of Richard
Lovel. Thursday before the nativity of the Virgin Mary, 19 Edward II.



N'hamp.

A. 6427. Release by Richard Pickeryng of Gretton, Robert Blakesley,
Robert Presgrave, and Christopher Goodyere, of the same, 'husbondmen,'
and Edmund Goodyere of Harborough, co. Leicester, baker, to William
Catesbye, esquire, of all their right, and of all common of pasture, in
certain parcels of demesne land in Gretton, part called 'le Hylles,' com-
monly called 'the Overnettes pasture,' part called 'le Nether Neattes pasture'
at Fracksyck, and in lands called 'Catchecrofte Leyes' and 'Carrycrouft
Houle,' and part called 'Prymmes Home.' 10 October, 14 Elizabeth.
Signed.

Endorsed: Sealed and delivered in the full court of Gretton held there on
the day and year within written.



[N'hamp.]

A. 6428. Grant by William Inggelond of Welton, to John de
Catesby, and Emma his wife, of all his estate in a cottage with a curtilage,
&c. in Welton, lying in 'le Netherende.' Monday after St. Peter ad Vin-
cula, 18 Richard II. Seal.



[Warw.]

A. 6429. Acquittance by William Whittyngton, abbot of Combe, for
100s. received from William Catisby, knight, for one year's farm of all the
lands and tenements in Rodburn, Hodenhull, and Ascote, lately leased by
the said abbot to the said Catisby. 12 October, 16 Edward IV. Portion of
seal.

[Page 038]


[Leic.]

A. 6430. Grant by William the tailor (cissor) of Scwneford (Swin-
ford), to Hugh son of Hugh de Scwneford, of land near [land of] the nuns
of Eton (Nuneaton), part adjoining the road from Scaewell (Shawell), parts on
Torphul and Crosforlong, part in Marchesakerdene, part on Langesachedole,
part at Medweaker, part at Fulsike, and part extending in Oherdale, with all
that part of the grantor's toft which Alice, his mother, formerly held, with
further release of all his right in the pasture belonging to certain land in
Scwneford, and in land, part on Stotfold near Walecote, and part on
Holdehole, also in land near land of the Hospitalers, part on Banlond, and
part on Wrongelond; rendering yearly ½d. to St. Mary's light in Scwneford
church, for the souls of the grantor's ancestors and successors. Witnesses:—
Gilbert de Stormurthe, and others (named).



[N'hamp.] [Warw.]

A. 6431. Grant by John son and heir of John Adam of Braundeston,
dwelling in Napton, to Nicholas Aillene of Assheby Leger, of 13s. 4d.
yearly rent from the grantor's lands and tenements in Braundeston and
Napton. Sunday after St Luke the Evangelist, 42 Edward III.



[Warw.]

A. 6432. Agreement between Robert de S . . . . . and Henry Bagot
of Coventre, relative to 4s. 10d. yearly rent which the said Henry gave to
the said Robert, in purparty of a certain rent in Harenhale near Coventre,
to be received from lands and tenements which formerly belonged to
William Underwode, and which the said William held from John de
Bromleye &c. Sunday before the conversion of St. Paul, 2 Edward II.
Injured.



[Warw.]

A. 6433. Letter of attorney by William Catesby, esquire, son and
heir of William Catesby, knight, authorising John Spenser to receive seisin
from William Whytyngton the abbot and the convent of Combe, of the
manor called 'Rodburnegraunge,' and of lands and tenements, &c., in
Rodburn, Hodenhulle, and Ascote. 4 October, 21 Edward IV. Fragment
of seal.



[Linc.]

A. 6434. Grant by Henry son of Jordan the clerk of Lincoln, to
Robert Hare, citizen of Lincoln, of land in Canewyk, abutting respectively,
part on Yotenwellebeck, part on Mykeldyk and Hyghtyngtongate, part on
'le Streme de Whytewellesike' and 'le Lynges,' part on Etygate, part on
'le Kyrkegate,' part lying in 'le Toftes' and abutting on 'le Cliffeegge'
of the commonalty of Lincoln, and part lying on 'le Soures' under
Canewyk, with land in the meadow of Canewyk, part abutting near, and
part upon, Wulgerhou. Lincoln, Tuesday after Palm Sunday, 15 Edward
II.



[Warw.]

A. 6435. Grant by Walter the diker (fossorius) of Shotriche, to
Robert the weaver (textori), of Stratford, of a messuage in Stratford at
Berfurlughe. Witnesses:—Robert de Pidele, Simon de Haleford, Nicholas
de Hamton, and others (named). Seal.



Linc.]

A. 6436. Grant by Robert son of Robert Hare of Lincoln, to
Nicholas de Tevelby, of Lincoln, merchant, of land in Canewyk part abut-
ting on Mikeldyk and Hyghtyngtonegate, and part on Etigate. Tuesday
after St. Guthlac the Confessor, 13 Edward III. A.D. 1339.



[Warw.]

A. 6437. Grant by Alice, late the wife of William Gamel of Coventre,
widow, to Robert Bonhome of the same, of two shops in the high street
towards 'le Potteresrowe' in Coventre, adjoining the running water called
'Schireburn.' Sunday after St Petronilla the virgin, 11 Edward II.



[Warw.]

A. 6438. Grant by Warin Warde of Schreueleye, to Thomas Lovekyn
of the same, of land in Schreueleye, part lying at Thorwacres upon
Wilmecroft, and extending to the meadow of Westitren, part lying on
[Page 039]
Blakelond, part on Medeforlong in Cowemorfeld, and part on the same
tillage 'attenakerzard.' Monday after St Mark, 9 Edward II.



[Warw.]

A. 6439. Release by Amice, relict of Walter Brum of Taneworth, to
her son John, of all her right by reason of her dower to fish in the ponds
on the tenement of the said John, with grant also of a plot of moor in
Taneworth. St. Barnabas' day, 8 Edward II. Seal.



[Warw.]

A. 6440. Grant by John [B]roun of Thoneworth, to Amice his
mother, for her life, of a messuage, garden, curtilage, and land, in
Thoneworth, which she held in dower; also grant to her of 2 skeps of
corn, 4 of oats, and a cock of hay yearly. Midsummer day, 6 Edward III.
Injured. Portion of seal, defaced.



[Warw.]

A. 6441. Sale by Roger son of Robert the smith, to William son of
Humphrey, of his smithy (fabricam) in the market place [Coventry], which
William the smith of Franketon, and his fellows held. Witnesses:—
William de Brinkelawe, Richard de Warewick, and others (named). Seal.



[Warw.]

A. 6442. Grant by Robert Tyscote of Henley in Ardern, and Isabella
his wife, to John Porrey of the same, of a messuage with a garden, &c. in
Henley aforesaid. Friday after St. Luke, 34 Henry VI. Seal.



[Warw.]

A. 6443. Demise by Philip de Aylesbury and Agnes his wife, to
Henry Smythes, Agnes his wife, and Eadyth their daughter, for their lives,
of a messuage and land which Walter Robyns lately held from the grantors
in villenage; rendering 16s. yearly to the said Philip and Agnes, and 3d.
for 'tak' and 'tol,' at the terms usual in Lappeworthe. Saturday before
St. Margaret the Virgin, 7 Richard II. Portion of seal.



[N'hamp.]

A. 6444. Demise by William Leiard of Norhampton, the younger,
and Joan his wife, to Robert le Spicer, burgess of the same, and Mabel his
wife, for their lives, of two shops in the Cobblers' Row (Rengo Sutorum),
Norhampton; with ratification by the said Joan of the present grant, in the
full husting of Norhampton. Witnesses:—John de Geytyngton, mayor
of Norhampton, and others (named). Monday after St Martin in winter,
34 Edward III. Fragment of seal.



[Surrey.]

A. 6445. Charter of free warren for John de Monteforte in his
demesne lands of Esshestede, Newdegate, and Redeston. Westminster.
10 June, 21 Edward I. Copy.



Warw.

A. 6446. Grant by Rose Mountford, to John Blakunhale and Richard
Boys, chaplains of the chantry lately founded by her, at the altar of St.
Mary in the parish church of Toneworth, and their successors, of all the
lands and tenements in Toneworth and Aspelee which formerly belonged
to Thomas Colyns of Toneworth, and which she lately had of the King's
grant; they to celebrate for the King during his life, and after his decease,
for his soul, and the souls of his progenitors and those of his mother and
consort, deceased, as also for the souls of herself, her ancestors, heirs and
benefactors. 8 May, 1 Henry IV.



Leic.

A. 6447. Demise by John Nel of Great Derset, to William le Clerc
of Geydon, and Joan his wife, for their lives, of a messuage and land in
Dunton which Ralph Geffrey held of the grantor in villenage, together with
the said Ralph and all his issue, and 69s. 6d. yearly rent in the same town,
to be received from the moiety of a messuage called 'Buristede' and from
other messuages and land, with the reversions of the said tenements when
they happen. 4 April, 10 Edward III. Seal.

[Page 040]


[Warw.]

A. 6448. Certificate that William de Catesby has delivered to Simon
de Lichefeld, clerk of the Common Pleas, a bond for 200l. in which William
is bound to John Percy of Coventre and John Styward of the same, to be
kept en owel mein, on the following condition, viz. that the said William
shall be ready to enfeoff certain chaplains, to be named by the said Percy
in fee simple, of a place called 'la Selde' in Coventre, by the feast of St.
Lawrence next, on a condition contained in the deed of feoffment, that if
the said Percy is paid 170 marks by the said date, or if John, William's
son, shall satisfy the said Percy of 146l. 13s. 4d. by the morrow of
Michaelmas next, then the said chaplains are to be bound to make feoffment
to the said John Catesby for ever; also on feoffment made to the said
chaplains Percy is to satisfy William of 50 marks. If the said feoffment is
made with warranty, the old deeds of feoffment and release with warranty
shall remain with William, otherwise Percy is to have the old deeds in
William's custody delivered to him; if the said John fail in carrying out
the above, then the said feoffment is to be made to the said Percy for ever,
&c. Westminster, 12 July, 46 [Edward III.]. French. Seal.



[Worc.]

A. 6449. Release by John de [Bi]sshopesdon, knight, to his son
Roger de Bisshopesdon, of all his right in all the lands and tenements,
&c. which he had at Herdewyk, in the town of Elmeleye L [ovet], and
in the town of Wiche Bate, and which he had formerly demised to the said
Roger for the term of his life. Wodecote, feast of St, Nicholas, . . .
Edward III. Injured.



[Warw.]

A. 6450. Release by Joan daughter of John de Lodinton, to Sir
Hugh de Braunteston, knight, and Margaret his wife, of 12d. yearly rent
which she used to receive from Peter Cock for a croft in Lapwrth called
'Julienes croft.' Witnesses:—Richard de Folewode, John Wodard, and
others (named).



[Warw.]

A. 6451. Grant by John Eliis of Hattone, to Hugh son of Simon son
of John de la Grene, of the same, of land in Hattone, lying on the tillage
called 'Roulowe,' and extending to the road called 'le Netherefildene Wey.'
Witnesses:—Simon de la Grene, Simon Bertulmeu, William de Alveston,
and others (named). Portion of seal.



[N'hamp.] [Leic.]

A. 6452. Grant by Thomas le Eyr of Welton, and Robert West of
Staverton, to Henry le Eyr of Welton, and Agnes his wife, of all their lands
and tenements, &c. in Welton, Staverton, Braundeston, and Sadyngton,
with the third part of a water-mill in Welton with a pond and holm, which
the grantors had of the gift of the said Agnes Ace (sic). Tuesday, the feast
of the Assumption of the Virgin Mary, 32 Edward III. Copy.



Warw.

A. 6453. Assignment by William Harris of Grayes Inn, in the county
of Middlesex, gentleman, and John Bluet of Water Lambeth in the county
of Surrey, yeoman, to John Frier of Ashoo and George Gosse of Stonley,
co. Warw., yeomen, of all their years to come in the manor of Bromeham
Farme alias Bromeshall in the parish of Lapworthe, which they had by
assignment, 19 June, 34 Eliz., of Elizabeth Harward alias Catisby of
Quynton in the county of Gloucester, widow, and William Catisby, her
son and heir apparent. 20 May, 35 Elizabeth. English.



Berks.

A. 6454. Grant by Sir John de Sancto Philiberto, knight, to Richard
Hake, for life, of the manor of Carsewell near Faryndon, in lieu of an
annuity of 10 marks charged thereon, and subject to 10 marks rent.
Saturday after the Purification, 27 Edward III. Seal of arms (St.
Philbert).

[Page 041]


[Warw.]

A. 6455. Grant by King Henry [II], in frank almoin, to the nuns
of Wrocheshale, for his own soul, and the souls of his father and
ancestors, of 10 marks, yearly, to be received at the Exchequer, Westminster,
at Michaelmas, until the King shall assign them a benefice, ecclesiastical
or other, of the same value. Witnesses:—Gocelin, bishop of Salisbury,
Richard de Luci, Richard, archdeacon of Poitiers. Wodestoch. [A.D. 1163
—1173.]



Camb.

A. 6456. Feoffment by Richard Fitz Lowys and Henry Tey, esquires,
to Thomas Mongomery and Thomas Delamare, knights, Thomas Tyrell,
Thomas Kyngeston, and William Grene, esquires, and others, named, of the
manor of Weston Colvyle, alias Colvyles, in Weston, which the grantors
together with John, bishop of Ely, by the name of John Morton, clerk, keeper
of the rolls of the King's Chancery, and others, named, who have released
their right therein to the grantors, lately had of the grant of William
Fyndern, knight; with letter of attorney authorising William Stotevyle and
John Norys to deliver seisin. 12 May, 19 Edward IV. Portions of two
seals.



London.

A. 6457. Grant in frank almoin by Robert de Rothom [ago], son of
Robert de Rothom [ago], to the canons of the Holy Trinity, London, of
10s. quit rent, part of a yearly rent paid by Hugh de Parisiis and Emma
his wife for a tenement in the parish of St. James at the Vintry (apud
viniteriam). Witnesses:—Nicholas Duket, William Hardel, Gilbert son of
Fulk, Nicholas de Gatesbir [i], Richard de Beninton, Elyas de Croyland,
and others (named).



[Essex.]

A. 6458. Grant by Hervey de Borham, dean of the church of St.
Paul, London, to Philip le Taylour and Rose his wife, the grantor's
kinswoman, and her heirs, of land and the third part of a messuage, with
wood, and 14d. yearly rent, in Borham which he had of the grant of Robert
the baker of Borham; rendering yearly a chaplet of roses (unam capellam
rose) at the feast of St. John the Baptist. Witnesses:—Sir Philip de Eye,
canon of St. Paul's church, London, Sir Laurence de Scackario, knight,
and others (named). [A.D. 1274—1276.] Seal.



N'hamp.

A. 6459. Acquittance by William Byspham, feodary of Sir John,
duke of Lancaster, in the county named, for 25s. received from Geoffrey
Revill, by the hands of William Ferre, of relief for the fourth part of one
fee in Bokkeby. 27 October, 15 Richard II. Seal.



London.

A. 6460. Bond by Edward Charnock, court hand writer, and John
Radcliff, merchant taylor, citizens of London, to Thomas Smith, William
Smith, and Henry Smith, infants within age, sons of Matthew Smith,
deceased, for 40l. 1 February, 34 Elizabeth, A.D. 1591. Signed. Two
seals.

Underwritten: Names of witnesses to sealing and delivery.

Endorsed: Condition of above bond witnessing that if the said Edward
shall pay to the said Thomas, William, and Henry, when they attain their
full age, their shares of so much of a certain yearly rent of 4 marks to be
paid to the said Edward during their minority by an order of the Court of
Requests, as shall be so received by him, then the above bond shall be void.



[Essex.]

A. 6461. Mortgage by Peter de Suthtun, Margaret his wife, and
Robert his son, to Richard son of Reiner, for 8l. of all their land of Leitun,
for four years from the Michaelmas next following the issue of the new
money of which Philip Aimer was the moneyer (cambitor); the men of
the town are to perform all service due to the King and to earl Aubrey
and if Richard is put to any expense in regard to the stock, or
houses, &c. of that land with the privity of the mortgagors or by view
[Page 042]
of their men, they will restore it at the end of the four years, &c.; also in
the fifth year Richard shall have all the crop of Wiplesham, the present
mortgage being made at London before Dame Arnica and Robert de Leiburn,
her son, who have allowed the same. Witnesses:—Robert de Tresgoz,
Henry son of Ailwin, Gualter de Gurnai, Thomas de Middeltun, and others
(named). [A.D. 1181.]



[Worc.]

A. 6462. Demise by Thomas Byshull son of John Byshull late of
Kyngesnorton, to John Treveyn, for twelve years, of all his capital
messuage there, with land, &c., late in the tenure of Agnes wife of Henry
Lee, Thomas' mother. Moseley in Kyngesnorton, feast of St. Luke the
Evangelist, 10 Henry VII.

Endorsed: Note that the said Thomas has received from the said John
Treveyn 20s. for one parcel called 'Cokkismore' for a term of three years.



[Kent.]

A. 6463. Letters by Richard the prior, and the convent, of the Holy
Trinity, London, granting to Ralph the chaplain, the perpetual vicarage of
their church of Bixle, as formerly taxed by Stephen, archbishop of Canter-
bury.



[Sussex.]

A. 6464. Release by Alice, relict of Alexander de Merisfeld, to
Godfrey de Tonebrugge, of all her right in a curtilage in the parish of St.
John's, Suthenovre, at Lewes. Witnesses: John Serle, Robert le Haftere,
and others (named).



Kent.

A. 6465. Bond by Thomasine Ware, widow, John Clampard of
Chydyngston, and Thomas Clampard of the parish of Sele, 'yomen,' to
Jarerd Danyell, citizen and fishmonger of London, for 40l. to be paid at the
feast of the Purification next. 17 March, 13 Henry VII.

Endorsed: Condition of above bond witnessing that if the above bound
parties discharge and acquit the said Gerard, and John Carleton and
Rauf Watton, his feoffees, before the said feast, of all quit rents, &c. due
up to the above date, for certain lands and tenements in the parish of
Plumsted, which the said Jarerd and his said feoffees lately purchased from
the above bound parties, then the above bond shall be void.



Salop.

A. 6466. Lease by Edmounde Lucy, esquire, and Johanne his wife,
lords of Stokton, Appley, Higeford and Norton, to Roger Hasilwode of
Newton, for thirty years, of 'the newe parke' in the parish of Stokton with
a 'cokshote' in the same, in a place called 'Dony Hylles,' also of a pasture
called 'Pykerydding' in Stokton, by the bank of the Severn; with the
underwood growing therein, except 'hegerowes, oke, asshe, ewes, and
crabtrees.' 7 April, 9 Henry VII. English.



[Warw.]

A. 6467. Release by William, son and heir of Nigel Richard and of
Lucy his wife, of Bobynhull, to Thomas his brother, of all his right in all
the lands and tenements, &c. in Bobynhull, which Lucy his mother gave
to John de Stafford, canon of Lincoln, and which the said Thomas holds.
Tuesday, Midsummer day, 6 Richard II. Seal.



Glouc.

A. 6468. Grant by John Foort of Gloucester, 'gentilman,' to
Maurice . . . ., and . . . ., of all his lands and tenements, &c.
within the hundred of Thornbury, a certain portion excepted . . . ., . .
Henry VI. Mutilated fragment.



N'hamp.

A. 6469. Lease by William lord Hastynges, William Catesby and
John Eltonhede, esquires, William Austyn of Norhampton, gentleman, and
Thomas Hunt of the same, draper, to Herry Gaybell of Fardyngeston,
Julyan his wife, and William their son, for their lives, of a place called 'the
Over Court' in Fardyngeston, with all lands, &c. belonging thereto.
1 October, 18 Edward IV. English. Seal and portions of seal.

[Page 043]


Worc.

A. 6470. Bargain and sale by George Catesby, esquire, to Robert
Throgmerton, esquire, of all his lands and tenements, &c. in Hill alias
Hulle, and More; the said George to make as sufficient an estate in law to
the said Robert before Christmas next as the said Robert or his counsel can
devise, any former leases, nevertheless, of the premises, made by the said
George to other persons to stand good, &c. 2 July, 16 Hen. VII.



Hants.

A. 6471. "Letters testimoniall" by "Lorde Henrye Wynsouer,
Lorde Egedius Marquis, Gorge Pallet, Wylliam Pallet, Olyver Walloupe,
Wylliam Warram, Thomas Peckesalle and Frauncys Flemmynge, knyghtes,
and justices off the peace, and off Coram," certifying that on the 23 June last
a mansion house with barns and stable, with grain and other stuff and goods
to the value of 100l. belonging to their "welbelovyd nyghboure" Robarte
Day, husbandman, and Jane his wife, of Marten Wourdye, was destroyed by
fire, to the "utter discomforde and undoynge" of the said Day and his
wife and six children, who are hereby commended to the charity of all
Christian people. 9 August, 4–5 Philip and Mary, A.D. 1557. English.
Signed. Portions of fire seals.



[Worc.]

A. 6472. Grant by Walter de Piritone and Richard Rees, to Hugh de
Cokeseie and Denise his wife, and his heirs, of all the lands and tenements,
&c. in Aldermustone and Goldicote which Margery, late the wife of Richard
de Croupes, holds for her life; together with the reversion of the lands and
tenements which John Isbele and Joan his wife, and Alice Isbele, hold in
the same, for Margery's life. Saturday after the close of Easter, 18
Edward III. Seal of arms and seal.



[Suff.]

A. 6473. Grant, in frank almoin, by Thomas son of Thomas de
Bradeleye, knight, to the nuns of Bung [ay], of a thousand red herrings
which the grantor and his ancestors used to receive as a yearly rent from
the said nuns. Witnesses: Sir John, vicar of Metingham, Morgan de
Ilketelessal, and others (named).



[Warw.]

A. 6474. Grant by Richard son of Thomas le Blake of Watburleye,
to Roger called 'le Wolf,' of Coventre, of land in Watburleye adjoining the
high road to Allesl [ey]. Tuesday after St. Mark, 9 Edward II.



[Warw.]

A. 6475. Grant by Thomas le Blake of Wabburleye, to Alice his
daughter, of land in Wabburleye, next the land he had given to his daughter
Joan, adjoining the path leading from the high road to Briddesmarleputh,
and extending to a field called 'le Bothine.' Coventre, Friday the feast
of St. Matthew, 7 Edward II.



[Warw.]

A. 6476. Grant by Joan, daughter of Thomas le Blake, of Wabbur-
leye, to Thomas Ruffyn of Sowe of land in Wabburleye, extending to a
field called 'le Bothine.' Coventre, Friday after St. Mark, 12 Edward II.
Seal.



[Warw.]

A. 6477. Grant by Thomas Ruffyn of Sowe, to Simon Pakeman of
Coventre, and Agnes his wife, of all rents and services due from Joan,
wife of Hugh de Copston, for all the land which the said Joan holds
in Wabburle by the demise of Joan, daughter of the late Thomas le Blake;
with further grant of the reversion of the said land. Wednesday after St.
Augustine, 12 Edward II.



[Warw.]

A. 6478. Grant by Roger le Wolf of Coventre, and Alice his wife,
to Simon Pakeman of Coventre and Agnes his wife, Elias de Lenna and
Matilda his wife, and the heirs of Simon, of land in Wabberle, part
adjoining the high road to Allesl [ey], and part next the path leading to
Briddesmarleput, and extending to a field called 'le Bothine.' Wednesday
after St. Mark, 10 Edward II.

[Page 044]


[Warw.]

A. 6479. Grant by John Maucler of Leycestre, clerk, to Simon Pake-
man of Coventre, Agnes his wife, Elyas de Lenna and Matilda his wife,
and the heirs of Simon, of a meadow under Asshawe, and a field adjoining,
which he had of the feoffment of Eoger Gopyl of Wabburle in fee.
Tuesday the morrow of St. Mark, 10 Edward II. Seal, injured.



[N'hamp.]

A. 6480. Grant by Thomas de Hynton, son and heir of William de
Hynton, to William de Hampton, clerk, of land in Hynton by Brakkelee,
part lying on 'le Sond,' part on Sondy Crorre, and part on Sondy Crorren-
mor, towards Mukelpol. Michaelmas day, 36 Edward III. Seal.



N'hamp.

A. 6481. Release by William de Southo, late the vicar of Watford, to
Margaret de Craunford, sister and heiress of Roger de Watford, chaplain,
deceased, of all his right in all the lands and tenements, &c. which he had
of the grant of the said Roger, in Watford, Newbotel and Creton, or else-
where in the same county. Densangre, 20 June, 5 Henry IV.

Endorsed: Memorandum of enrolment on the dorse of the Close Roll in
September 7 Henry IV.



[Berks.]

A. 6482. Grant by Agnes, relict of Henry Pax of Basingestoke,
widow, to Sir Hugh le Despenser, of a water-mill in Grenham without
Neubyr [y], called 'Doddesmulne,' with a meadow and cottages adjoining,
which she inherited from her father, Roger le Forester. Witnesses:—Sirs
John de Columbar [iis], and Geoffrey de Turbeville, knights, William de
Brikeville, John de Crekkelade, and others (named). Portions of seal.



[Kent.]

A. 6483. Grant by Walkelin de Grenewiz, to Berold the priest
(sacerdoti), his kinsman, of land in [Grenewiz?] called 'Trinmad,' subject
to the service of keeping up the wall to defend the said field against the
Thames. Witnesses:—Alulf de Grenewiz, Thomas the chamberlain of
Lefesham, and others (named). Mutilated.

Endorsed: 'Grenewyche.'



[York, E.R.]

A. 6484. Release by Robert son of John Bretoun of Lepington, to
Scolastica, late the wife of Godfrey de Melsa, of all his right in a messuage
and land in Lepington whereof he had enfeoffed her by charter. Sunday
after St. Hilary, A.D. 1328.



Westm'l'd.

A. 6485. 'A Remembraunce of the title of James Pykeryng, esquyer,
brother and heire male of Christopher Pykeryng, knyght, deceased, to the
manours of Kyllyngton and Thurbank in the countye of Westm'land
entailled to the heires males of his auncestours.' 19 Henry VIII. English
chiefly. Paper.



Berks.

A. 6486. Release by William son of William Brun, to Richard de
Ripariis, knight, and Sarah his wife, of all his right in all the lands and
tenements, &c. which he formerly recovered before the Justices of assize in
the county named against Adam de Stokke and Roger de Stocke in Poug-
hele and Esegarston. Hungerford, 16 January, 17 Edward [I.].



[N'hamp.]

A. 6487. Demise by John Mallore, knight, lord of Weltone, to
Richard Taillour of Weltone, Agnes his wife, and Richard and Joan, their
children, for their lives, of a plot of waste land in Weltone in Ailemere
'stret,' which Simon Smyth formerly held in bondage,; with other land in
Weltone, part on Horsepol, part on Erdeburgh, part on Tonstal, part on
Fouleswellehul, part on Thurnewellehul, part at 'les Plottes' and part at
'le Bouchesende'; with grant by the said John that the said Richard
and Richard shall not be placed in the offices of frankpledge or ale-taster,
and if so elected, they shall not pay rent while holding the said offices.
Thursday after St. Katharine the Virgin, 38 Edward III.

[Page 045]


[Glouc.]

A. 6488. Letter of attorney by Hugh le Despenser, authorising
Walter de Hertrugge to receive seisin of land and wood near the said
Hugh's wood and castle of 'la Musardere,' whereof he had been enfeoffed
by Sir Henry de Penbrugge. Bardesle, Wednesday the feast of the apostles
Philip and James, 31 Edward [I.].



[Surrey.]

A. 6489. Demise by William de Ayremynne, clerk, attorney of Dame
Eleanor, late the wife of Sir Henry de Percy, to Sir Hugh le Despenser,
earl of Winchester, in the name of the said Dame Eleanor, of a meadow,
pasture, fishery and rent, and of all other lands and tenements which she
held by way of dower in Lameheth. Westminster, 18 April, 16
Edward II. Seal.



York.

A. 6490. Bond by Edmund Seynter, of Middelhaddelsey, 'yoman,' to
Oswald Grice, gentleman, for 100 marks, to be paid at Christmas next.
20 December, 18 Henry VIII. Signed. Seal.

Endorsed: Condition of above bond witnessing that if the said Edmund
do observe the covenants specified in a pair of indentures, of even date,
between the said parties, then the said bond shall be void. English.



[Essex.]

A. 6491. Grant by Simon son of Adam, to Ralph de Hasting', of all
his land which William Gosse held at Eademor, together with the said
William and all his issue. Witnesses:—Ralph de Berneres,Ralph de Niuelland,
Master Roger, parson of Phairsted, Hugh de Illegh, Alan the chaplain of
Nuhtlegh, and others (named).



Wilts

A. 6492. Grant, in frank almoin, by Richard Thebaut of Ricardeston, to
the abbot and monks of Stanley in Wiltshire, of an acre and a half in the
territory of Ricardeston, in the tillage called 'la Woremfurlang,' between
their land land and his, and extending upon the road called 'la Thwrsweye.'
Witnesses:—Reginald Waz, Philip de Gay, William de Berwyk, and
others (named).



[Camb.]

A. 6493. Grant in frank almoin by Walter the nephew of Wil-
burh [am], to the brethren of Anglesey, for the use of the sick poor, of land
in Wilburh [am], parts abutting respectively on the fields of Bodekesh [am],
and on the fields of Queye. Witnesses:—William Talemasch, Peter the
clerk of Wilburham, Walter de Franchevile, and others (named).



[Berks.]

A. 6494. Release by Walter le Sterkere, son of Roger le Sterkere, of
Neubyry, to Sir Fulk Basset, bishop of London, of all his right in all the
lands, tenements, and meadows adjacent, in the marsh of Spenehemelonde,
which Richard, his younger brother, held by will of the said bishop.
Witnesses:—Elias de Baggenore, Richard de la Frith, Simon de Berewyc,
and others (named). [A.D. 1241–1259.] Seal.



[Wilts.]

A. 6495. Release by Man[ser] Arsic of Gilbert son of John the
Marshal and his heirs from their ward of Dover for 10s. which they ought
to pay yearly on the Sunday after the Close of Easter to him or to his bailiff
at Cogges. Witnesses:—Margery his wife, Alberic Arsic his uncle (patruo
meo), William Arsic his brother (fratre meo), Humphrey (Cnf') de Bertona,
and others (named); and on behalf of Gilbert:—Adam de Pirit [on], and
others (named).

Endorsed: 'Swindon.'



[Brecon.]

A. 6496. Title of Sir Thomas West, knight, now lord La Warre,
cousin and heir of Sir John Mortymer, of Cure, co. Worc. knight, deceased,
to the castle of Penkethley, and two parts of the barony of the same, with
divers manors, lands, and tenements, &c. in Penkethley, Scatheropp, and
other towns and hamlets in the lordship of Breknokk, which premises were
held by the said Sir John Mortymer 'of Edward, duke of Bukkingham,
[Page 046]
as in right of an olde inheritaunce,' but which Sir Richard Herberd,
knight, 'wrongfully hath and kepith,' &c. Temp. Henry VIII. English.
Paper.



[N'hamp.]

A. 6497. Grant by Henry atte Welle, son and heir of the late
Richard atte Welle, of Weltone, to Thomas le Taylur, of the same, and
Cristiana his wife, and his heirs, of 6½d. yearly rent from the cottage with
a curtilage in Weltone, which they held for term of years of the said
Richard his father; with further grant of the reversion of the said
premises. Thursday after St. Mark the Evangelist, 5 Edward III.



N'hamp.

A. 6498. Release by Emma, late the wife of John de Catesby,
daughter and heiress of Robert de Craunford, to Edward de Metteley, and
Margaret his wife, and to Robert Burdet and Joan his wife, of all her right
in all the lands and tenements, &c, in Watford and elsewhere in the county
named, which they had of the gift and feoffment of Margaret, late the
wife of the said Robert her father. 20 January, 8 Henry IV. Seal.



N'hamp.

A. 6499. Sale by William Catesby, esquire, to William Stok, knight,
for 42l. of all the wood and underwood growing in Broke coppice, in Gretton
wood, within the forest of Rokyngham, except crabtree, for three years,
&c. 5 October, 14 Edward IV. English. Seal, broken.



Sussex.

A. 6500. Bond by Robert Strudwicke, of . . . . . ., 'yoman,'
to the Queen for 20l. 27 January, 31 Elizabeth. Portion of seal.

Endorsed: Condition of above bond witnessing that if the said Robert do,
from time to time, continue his personal appearance in the court of Star
Chamber and do not depart till order be taken with him for the contempt
which he hath committed, then the above bond shall be void. English.







      

  


  

  
    
      PreviousTable of contentsNext
  


      
      

    

  

  
      
      
        
              
  
    
      
            


      
  

    
                      
    Footer menu
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Help
              
          
        About the project
              
          
        Terms of use
              
          
        Privacy and Cookies
              
          
        Accessibility
              
        
  


  


  
    
      
            Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London


      
  


        
      
    
  

  










