


  








    Deeds: C.5801 - C.5900 | British History Online
    


      




    
    
    
    
    



  Skip to main content



  
    





  
    
          
  
    
  
      
      BHO | British History Online
    
      
  


    
                      
    Main navigation
    
  
  
        

  
    
      
    
    
                    
              
                  Browse Catalogue
                      
          
                  Subject guides
                      
          
                  Using BHO
                      
          
                  About
                      
          
                  Subscribe
                      
          
                  News
                      
        
  
    
  


  


    
                      
    Login
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Login
              
          
        Register
              
        
  


  



    
  

  
  

  

  

  

  

    

      
      
      
            
  
    
        ';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
    Breadcrumb
    
          
                  Home
              
          
                  A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds
              
        
  

  


  
    
      
  Deeds: C.5801 - C.5900



  

  
    
      

  
    A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 6. 

    
    Originally published by His Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1915.

    
  



    This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 
    



  
    
      Citation:
        
          BHO
          Chicago
          MLA		
        
    
    
      
'Deeds: C.5801 - C.5900', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 6, ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1915), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol6/pp267-279 [accessed 3 July 2026].
    


    
      
'Deeds: C.5801 - C.5900', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 6. Edited by   H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1915), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
 https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol6/pp267-279.
    


    
      
"Deeds: C.5801 - C.5900". A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 6. Ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London, 1915), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol6/pp267-279.
    


  
  
    
  

  
    

  

            
        Keyword Highlight
        
        Search
        
      
     
    
            
  



C.5801 - C.5900





[Kent.]

C. 5801. Grant by William Brook of Esthamme to William Galione
of the parish of Wolewych of a croft of land called 'Soutland '
containing 8a. in the parish of Wolewich between the road to la Verie
and the land of Sir John [de] Pulteneye. Sunday after St. James the
Apostle, 22 Edward III.



[Bedford.]

C. 5802. Grant by William de Ardern, chaplain, to Walter
son of Henry de Thornecote and Sarah his wife of 2½a. arable and
½a. ½r. meadow in the fields and meadows of Bestone lying on
'Dryhouhul' and 'le Haccheforlong' and in 'Hoddecroft,' 'Prikedole'
and 'le Widefan.' Thornecote, Tuesday before St. Dunstan,
11 Edward II. Seal.



[Wilts.]

C. 5803. Grant by Henry Necurpole and Edith his wife to
John Godzer of Marleberg and William Baudy of Hanly, chaplains,
of a tenement opposite the rectory of Remmesburry between the
tenement formerly of John Chese and the lane towards Kenete.
Tuesday after New Year's Day, 3 Richard II. Cf. C. 4591 & 5382.
Two seals.



Bucks.

C. 5804. Grant by Edmund Vawse of Buckyngham and [Alice]
his wife to John Hartewell and Agnes his wife of their messuage called
'le Cock,' in Buckingham, with a croft and garden adjoining, between
the messuage of Richard Fowlarr, knight, and the messuage called
'le Angel' between the high road and the River Owse, and of a croft
called 'le Tempull Lond' adjoining a lane called 'the Watur Lane.'
Witnesses:—John Adkyns, bailiff, and others (named). 1 . March,
23 Henry VII. Two seals, damaged. Endorsed, The dede of Edmond
Vaus and off Alis his wyff made to John Hartwell and to Agnes his
wyff dowghtour to the seid Edmond Vaus.



[Cambridge.]

C. 5805. Demise by Richard Beteyn of Wyttelesford to Annabel
late the wife of [John] Best of Trippelowe, Thomas North and John
Pryme of the same and Robert Barette of Hardeleston of a messuage
formerly of John Carter and late of John Styward, smith, in Trippelowe
in a street called 'le Grenestrete' near a toft called 'Crochemanszerd,'
and abutting on the common green of Grenestrete, which messuage
he had by the gift of the said John Styward. Monday before
St. Barnabas, 18 Henry VI.



[Staff.]

C. 5806. Grant by Robert son of William son of Dolba of Bettileyg
to Hugh son of Peter son of John of the same of a messuage which he
had by the gift of William his brother in the town of Bettileyg, in the
[Page 268]
High Street; rent to the chief lord of the town, 3d. For this grant
the said Hugh paid 30s. beforehand. Witnesses:—Richard Skeyl,
bailiff, and others (named). The eve of St. Philip and St. James, 1301.



[Cambridge.]

C. 5807. Grant by Annabel Best, late the wife of John Best of
Tryplowe, and now the wife of John Pyppyll the elder, and John
Pryme the elder, of the same, to the said John Pyppyll, John Pyppyll
the younger, and John Pryme the younger, of a messuage in Tryplowe,
as in C. 5805. 18 August, 2 Edward IV.



[Linooln.]

C. 5808. Grant by John Dryster of Estrasyn and Margaret his wife
to John Denet of Leycester, John Glover, Thomas Gaddysby of the
same, John Welton of Estr[asyn], and Walter de Wykeham of
Southkelsay of all their lands in the town of Estrasyn or elsewhere.
Monday, the feast of St. Romanus, 20 Henry VI.



[Cambridge.]

C. 5809. Grant by John Pyppyll of Triplow to Richard Pyppyll,
Thomas Prym the elder, John Godwyn and William North of a messuage
in Triplow which he had by the demise of Annabel Beste and John
Prym the elder, as in C. 5805. 20 June, 7 Henry VI.



[Bedford.]

C. 5810. Grant by Ralph Oliver of Bestone and Agatha his wife
to Roger Juel of Thornecote and Isabel his wife and the heirs of the
said Roger of 2r. land in the field of Beston lying on 'Padeworthe'
and near land of the abbot of Wardon. Sunday after Michaelmas,
8 Edward II. Seal in white wax.



[Derby.]

C. 5811. Grant by Richard, chaplain of Repyndon, and Hugh de
Eng[leby] of the same to William Boteler of the same and Katherine
his wife of their land in Repyndon which they had by the gift of the
said William. Sunday before Lady Day, 3 Henry IV. One seal,
broken.



[Bedford.]

C. 5812. Demise by William Bochell and Henry Mauntell to
John Cornewayll, lord of Fawenh[ope], of all their land in Parkmede,
Fannemede, Ladypond, Dame Anneysmede, and elsewhere in the
north and south fields of Ampthull, and a grove at Stepyngle, after
the death of Isabel late the wife of John Ampthull. Witnesses:—
. . . . Lowdesop and John Wenlok, esquires, and others (named).
. . January, 11 Henry VI. Two seals, one damaged.



Essex.

C. 5813. Demise by John Steven le Este and William Braughyng
to Richard Bregge, John Causton the elder and John his son, John
Garyngton the elder and John his son, Henry Bode, John Causton,
son of Thomas Causton, and Roger Garyngton of lands called 'Wynde-
helle' in the town of Assheldom which they had jointly with
William Brigge, John Bengemyn and Thomas Comyn, now deceased,
by the gift of John Peeke of Burneham. 16 June, 5 Henry VII.
Seal.



[Kent.]

C. 5814. Indenture witnessing that Agnes Eillam the younger
has granted to Agnes Eylam the elder for life all her lands in the
parishes of Orpynton and Chelsfeld except land called 'the Brelles'
in Bagemed. Saturday, the eve of Trinity, 31 Edward III.



[Wilts.]

C. 5815. Indenture witnessing that Joan late the wife of William
Molyns has granted to John Gowayn of Northyngton all her lands,
rents and services in Swalweclyve and Toderdehulle for the term
[Page 269]
of her life; rent, 3 marks in return for a grant of a hall (une sale),
two rooms, and a garden, with 'housbote,' &c. Monday after
St. James the Apostle, 6 Richard II. French.



[Herts.]

C. 5816. Grant by Richard Bobet of Naldewyk to Thomas
Hykedon of Betlowe, Robert Pydkyn of Ivingho, and Henry Gery,
of lands in the fields of Tyscote, Betlowe and Naldewyk. 9 December,
29 Henry VI.



[Radnor.]

C. 5817. Grant by Henry Holle to William Thomkyn, Margery his
wife, and his heirs of 9½a. of his land in the fee and lordship of
'la Dyche.' Dyche, Sunday before . . . ., 18 Richard II.



[Chester.]

C. 5818. Indenture being a demise by William de Bulkeley of
Eyton to Margaret wife of Edmund de Minnishulle, his sister, of half
the town of Wymyncham for her life; remainder to John de
Cholmundeley of Chorley and his heirs male; remainder to the right
heirs of the said John. Tuesday after Michaelmas, 9 Henry V.



Berks.

C. 5819. Grant by John Hychecok and Alice his wife of Upton
to Robert Haloum, bishop of Salisbury, and John York and John his
son of Westhakeborne of all the land, &c. which Richard Paternostres
and Robert Cole had in Esthenrethe. The feast of St. Mark,
4 Henry V. Two seals, one damaged.



[Herts.]

C. 5820. Grant by John Whitlok, skinner, of St. Albans, to John
Brydsthorne, 'dyeghere,' of the same of a tenement in St. Albans
abutting on 'Pottershegge' in a lane called 'Halywellestrete,' which
he had by inheritance at the death of Joan Whitloke, his mother.
Witnesses:—William Ecclesale, bailiff of St. Albans, John Doose,
and others (named). 6 July, 3 Henry IV.



Kent.

C. 5821. Quitclaim by John Jurden of Brastede, yeoman, to
Richard Potter of his right in two parcels of land called 'Dallefeld '
and 'Stony Croft' in the parish of Brastede. 25 September,
15 Henry VII.



[Dorset.]

C. 5822. Grant by John Palmer of Brideport and William Tracy
the younger to John Burgeys and Agnes his wife of a messuage in the
east street of Brideport and of ½a. arable in Ponchisford both of which
Robert Budde formerly had and which they had by the gift of Agnes
late the wife of John Gouky the younger. Witnesses:—Roger Broune
and John Proute, bailiffs of Brideport, Hugh Hider, and others (named).
Friday after St. Peter and St. Paul, 1 Henry VI. Fragments of seals.



[Herts.]

C. 5823. Grant by Geoffrey sen of William Est of Wengrave to
Stephen son of Alice le Clerk of the same and William H . . . .
of Bettelowe of all his lands in Betelowe, Naldewick, and Tyscote.
Thursday after St. Fremund, 38 Edward III.



Herts.

C. 5824. Indenture made at Alldebury, 6 January, 11 Henry VII,
witnessing that John Ormod, gentleman, of Allforton, co. Notts, and
Jane his wife have sold to Harry Wynche of Alldebury all the wood
and timber growing on Allbure heath. English.



[Berks.]

C. 5825. Quitclaim by Walter le Knight of Chilton to Geoffrey
de Chelcheheth of his right in 3a. arable in the field of West
Hakebourn in 'le Merefurlang.' Chilton, Monday after the
Translation of St. Thomas the Martyr, 5 Edward III. Seal, damaged.

[Page 270]


[Chester.]

C. 5826. Indenture between Geoffrey de Legh and Richard son
of Robert de Assheton concerning lands and messuages in Assheton.
Witnesses:—John Savage, knight, Hamon le Massy, John
Dounvyle. Thursday after St. Matthew, 8 Henry VI.



Cumberland.

C. 5827. Grant by [Thomas Ra]ynton, rector of Plumland, to
William de . . . ., for life, of all his lands, rents, and services in the
county; remainder to Robert . . . . [and] Margaret his wife
and the heirs of their bodies; remainder to the right [heirs of]
. . . . Gritby of Arkilby, the elder. Arkilby, 10 June, 11 Henry IV.
Seal. Endorsed, Arkylby. Relaxacio facta per Thomam Raynton
rectorem ecclesie de Plumland.



Essex.

C. 5828. Indenture witnessing that Peter Lyver of co. Essex,
yeoman, has pledged to William Fogan, citizen and mercer of London,
a pot of silver parcel-gilt and other silver plate weighing 52 ounces
as security for a debt of 8l. 15 March. 23 Edward IV. English.
Paper.



[Heref.]

C. 5829. Grant by Nicholas Blund of Cradeleg to Henry de Couleg
for his fealty and service of ¼a. land in Cradeleg, in Bronescroft;
rent, a ginger-root at Christmas for all service. For this grant
Henry gave him 3s. 3d. beforehand. Witnesses:—Simon de Storug,
John of Worcester, clerk, and others (named).



[Middx ?]

C. 5830. Grant by Benet Wendegos to Gocius son of Roger of
a messuage (managium) adjoining that of the said Gocius and
measuring 6 royal ells in breadth; rent, one mark for all service; the
said Gocius not to be dispossessed (dehospitari) for the accommodation
of the said Benet or other persons. For this grant Gocius gave him
the right to build a gable (ponere gablum meum) on Gocius' stone wall
at his cost (cum custu meo) and also gave him one golden bezant.
Witnesses:—Nicholas Duket, Matthew the alderman, Robert the
chamberlain, Stephen Blund, Walter Ardur, Robert of Winchester,
Richard the bloodletter (minutore), Esegar de Douegat, and others
(named). Seal, damaged.



[Staff.]

C. 5831. Grant by Richard de Verney to Richard son of Richard
de Camera of Madeleyg under Lyme of two places of land in the fee
of Madeleyg late of Adam del Heth extending from Mulnemor to
Adcokes Heringeshale and Hichecokes Heringeshale to hold to the
said Richard son of Richard and his heirs; remainder to William
and John brothers of the said Richard son of Richard successively;
remainder to the said Richard de Verney; rent, 6d. Seal, damaged.



[Staff.]

C. 5832. Grant by William Cotin of Madeleye to Thomas his
eldest son, Amice daughter of William de Marton of Chypknoll and
the heirs of their bodies of one third of his messuage and land, &c.
in the fee of Madeleye south of the stream running from Madeleye
mill, and of his enclosure called 'le Couheye'; rent, 2s. Witnesses:—
Sir John de Hauekeston, knight, and others (named). Sunday, the
feast of St. Bartholomew, 22 Edward III. Seal.



[Devon.]

C. 5833. Confirmation by William de Brays to the church of
St. Mary Magdalen. Bardestaple. of the land called 'Hole' which
land Walter son of Ralph and Emma his wife, with the consent of
their heirs, granted to the said church receiving by way of
acknowledgment (karitatem) 16½ marks, two palfreys for the said
[Page 271]
Emma and two pieces of gold, and for their two sons, two pieces of
gold; and, at the request of Sir Henry, bishop of Winchester, and
Sir Walter Catalainz, prior of St. Martin de Campis, who for the purpose
of this business came to England, he confirms to the said church
all former grants of Joel his grandfather; and if the heirs of the said
Walter suffer forfeiture nothing is to be taken from this land.
Witnesses:—Robert the chaplain, Payn the steward (dapifero),
Henry Malnevu, Ranulf Puyer, Ranulf Malnevu, and others (named).



[Leic.]

C. 5834. Grant by John son of Siward the smith (fabri) of Totisbur'
to Ralph Grim of 7 yard-lands in the town of Bildiston which
Robert Grim father of the said Ralph held from John's father and
himself at a yearly rent of 16s.; rent, 7s. Witnesses:—Geoffrey de
Gresel, Oliver le Saracen (Saracino), Ellis, parson of Newbold, Peter
de Lutrewrthe, Gerald de Navenebi, and others (named).



[Staff.]

C. 5835. Grant by Richard de Verney to William son of William
Cotyn of Madeleyg, Margery his wife, and their lawful heirs of ½a. land
in the fee of Madeleyg and late of Richard le Rede on the high road
from Madeley to Wrymeforde. Seal.



[Warw.]

C. 5836. Grant by Henry de Gardino to Richard de Bouckemor
for his homage and service for the use of the said Richard and his heirs
of a cart-way between the said Henry's land of Dunepol and the field
of Bouckemor; rent, 1d. at Lady Day. Cf. C. 4894.



[Salop.]

C. 5837. Grant by Richard son of Richard Swetkoc of Blore to
William le Marchalt, clerk, of a messuage in the town of Great Drayton
adjoining the high road. Witnesses:—Sir Nicholas de Swynnerton,
dean of Stafford, William son of William le Botill', knight (milite),
Vivian de Stuche, and others (named). Great Drayton in le Hales,
Thursday before St. Margaret, 27 Edward III. Seal of arms in
white wax.



[Heref.]

C. 5838. Grant by Henry de Couleye to Thomas le Zunge of
Avileburi and Maud his wife of a place of his land in the town of
Cradeleye with houses thereon adjoining the highway from Worcester
to Hereford for their lives; rent for all service saving the king's, 4s.



[Chester ?]

C. 5839. Grant by [John] constable of Chester, to Richard de Leca
son of Letond of two carucates of land in Kewurda being the
inheritance of the sons of William, John's brother, which William bought
of Simon de Kewurda; also he grants to him the wardship of the sons.
Witnesses:—Richard son of John the constable, Ralph Fraser, Robert
Pica, Robert de Crokeston, Jone, Robert son of John, Payn Fraser,
Geoffrey Escrop, Ralph de Bidon, Ralph de Sauketot, Robert son of
Walter, Ellis de . . . . urda, Adam de Duttun and William le Gat.



[Worc.]

C. 5840. Demise by Thomas de Stanes to William son of Sir William
Corbet, for 21 years from Michaelmas, 54 Henry III, of his land in the
town of Russuk, except a yearly rent of 3s. which John le Taylur
and Iseuda his wife owe for a messuage in the same which will remain
to the said William and his heirs and assigns after their death, and
except a yearly rent of 2d. which William le Runsiner owes; and if
Thomas shall die within the term, the land shall remain to William
for his life for half a mark yearly rent, after the term, to the heirs of
Thomas and if William shall die within the term the land shall remain
to his heirs till the end of the 21 years. And if William shall bear
expenses against the meaning of this writing, the land shall remain
[Page 272]
to him until he is indemnified in the judgment of trustworthy men.
And if Thomas or his heirs shall sell or alienate the land, William
and his heirs shall be preferred as purchasers. William shall build
a house on the land at a cost of 2 marks which Thomas or his heirs
shall repay at the end of the term. For this demise William gave
Thomas 12 marks beforehand. Witnesses:—Sir Bartholomew de
Suydlegg, Sir Walter de Cokes', Sir William son of Warin de Upton,
Stephen de Kakebale, and others (named,). Endorsed, Royssock.
Seal.



[Derby.]

C. 5841. Grant by William Hally to Hugh de Stretleye of a half
part of Alricheleye with the whole toft belonging thereto in the town
of Burg'; rent for all service save foreign service, 18d. Witnesses:—
Oliver de Hayrseg, John de Bamford, and others (named).



[Bedford.]

C. 5842. Grant by Reginald Bugge of Blechesh' to God and
St. Mary of the hermitage of Blechesh' and to brother Robert Parage
and his brethren of 2a. land on 'le Stoncgine' adjoining land que fuit
Thoni and 1½r. meadow in Merdeye, in frank almoin. Witnesses:—
Ralph and Robert de Broy, brethren and parsons, Hugh Pipard.
Robert Truncat. and others (named).



[Herts.]

C. 5843. Quitclaim by William de Aula of Draiton to William son
of Henry de Betelaue, for half a mark beforehand in gersum, of his
right in the body of Godsalin de Betelaue, his issue and chattels,
movable and immovable. Witnesses:—Ralph, lord of Merston, and
others (named). Fragment of seal in white wax.



[Derby.]

C. 5844. Grant by John son of Ivo de Heriz to Robert Vavasor
of Sypeleg for his homage and service of all his land in the territory
of Tybeself between the high road to Hertistoft, &c.; rent,
half a mark. Witnesses:—Sir Walter de Estweit, Sir Geoffrey Barre
of Tiverishold, Sir Geoffrey de Musters, Ralph le Poer, and others
(named). Seal in white wax, damaged.



[Devon.]

C. 5845. Grant by Walter de Ralega to the church of St. Mary
Magdalen, Barnastapol, and the monks there of a plot (morsellum)
of land between two roads on the south side of Radewrthi; and quit-
claim of his right in Botolph, his wife and issue. Seal in wrapping,
decayed.



[Derby.]

C. 5846. Grant by William son of Hugh the forester (forestarii)
of Macworth to Robert son of William le Yavasur of Schyppeleg
of 1r. land in the territory of Macworth, on Hertishevid. For this grant
Robert paid him 2 marks in gersum. Witnesses:—Sir Thomas
Hauselin, Simon Tuschet, rector of Macworth, and others (named).



[Lincoln.]

C. 5847. Grant by Sibyl daughter of Walter de Legesby to William
her brother of her meadow in the territory of Cokerincton, in
'le Fletcroft,' which she had by the gift of her mother, for 5 marks
beforehand; rent, 4½d. at Whitsun Eve. Witnesses:—Ralph Church
(ad ecclesiam) of Schitebrock, Robert de Hegninc, and others (named).
Seal, damaged.



[Warw.]

C. 5848. Grant by William de Oddingesel to Gilbert de Birches,
for his homage and service, of 8a. land on 'Hernefordehul'; rent, 2s. 8d.
Seal in white wax, damaged.



[Bedford.]

C. 5849. Grant by Richard son of Osbert de la Strate to Amice
his daughter, for her service and fealty, of 6a. land in Est Hyda in the
[Page 273]
parish of Luyton abutting on Martineswelle, in the field of Thachford,
in Grascroft, and at Rutheresdelle abutting on the road from
St. Albans at Thittokes; rent for all service save foreign service, 8d.
Warranty to all men except Jews or religious houses.



[Herts.]

C. 5850. Grant by John de Belendene to Geoffrey le Godung of
Aldwik, for his homage and service and for 24s. which Geoffrey gave
him beforehand, of 1½a. land in the east and west fields of Bethelawe;
rent, 3d. Witnesses:—Ralph, lord of Merston, and others (named).
Candlemas, 54 Henry III.



[Bucks.]

C. 5851. Grant by Roger son of Robert the smith (fabri) of
Neuport in frank almoin to Herman the priest, for the souls of his wife,
his son William and others and for the maintenance of the poor in the
hospital of God, St. Mary, St. John the Evangelist and All Saints,
of that part of his burgage in Neuport which is between his house
and the bank of Loventia, viz. the house in which schools were kept,
reserving a chamber to himself. Witnesses:—Michael de Querendon,
steward, Deodatus de Caltekot, Simon le Cat, Nicholas the clerk
(clerico), who wrote this deed, and others (named).



[Salop.]

C. 5852. Grant by R. abbot of Cumbermar to Richard de
Bromhale, his heirs and assigns except religious persons and magnates
of half a burgage in the town of Drayton, and of a place of land there,
and of 1½a. land in the field of the same, whereof 1a. is in the field
towards Betton near 'le Witeschupen' and ½a. is in the field towards
Sponley; rent, 10½d. Seal, damaged.



[Norf.]

C. 5853. Grant by Henry de Cirtelinge to Sir William de Senges,
son of Richard de Senges, of a rent of 15d. of which Robert son of
Henry de Bungeye has paid 12d. yearly for 12a. land in the town of
Mundham, and 3d. which Heylmer Goche has paid yearly for a messuage
in the town of Senges; rent, three peppercorns. For this grant
Sir William has given him one mark in gersum. Witnesses:—Sir Alan
de Mundham, Stephen his son, and others (named).



[Bucks.]

C. 5854. Grant by Simon de Harmed to the hospital of St. John the
Baptist and St. John the Evangelist, in Neuport, in frank almoin for
the support of the poor, of 6a. land in Athelstonescroft towards
Caltekote and all his meadow in Doddesmede, and pasture for four
beasts which he had by the gift of John de Meilons. Witnesses:—
Michael de Querendon, steward, Roger the dean (decano), Nicholas
the clerk who wrote this deed, and others (named). Seal, damaged.
Endorsed, Carte (sic) de pastura de dominica de iiijor averiis de sex acris
terre in clausura vocata Saynt Jonys Close et de [parcella] prati in
Doddys Meyd.



[Derby.]

C. 5855. Grant by Peter de Sandiaker to Robert son of Hugh de
Sandebi with Parnel (Petronilla) his daughter in free marriage of
one-third of his mills in Sandiaker with the suit (sequela) pertaining
thereto. Witnesses:—Walter [de Santeney], abbot of Stanleye Park,
William, archdeacon of Derebi, Robert, parson of Henower, Simon de
Seinmor, Richard de Yorz, and others (named). Equestrian seal,
damaged.



[Berks.]

C. 5856. Grant by Ranulf Horsleche to Robert Morel, for his
homage and service and for half a mark which he gave him in gersum,
of a messuage in Ingeflod Belet as enclosed by the said Robert; rent
for all service save the king's service, viz. ½d. for scutage, 1d.
[Page 274]
Witnesses:—John Belet of Enedburne, Peter de Haselwik', and others
(named).



[Bucks.]

C. 5857. Grant by Simon de Tyringham, chaplain, to the hospital
of St. John the Baptist in Neuport, the brethren and sisters serving
God there, and the poor dwelling there, in frank almoin for the souls
of Richard de Tyringham and others, of half a yard-land (virgatam)
in the fields of Tyringham and Filegrave which he bought from William
de Ellesfeld and four selions of the chief messuage there next the road
to Tyringham mill, with the house thereon; rent to the chief lords
of the fee, 2s. Witnesses:—John de Culeye, bailiff, Sir William, dean
of Neuport, John de Loventa, and others (named). Fragment of seal
in white wax. Endorsed, Paten'.



[Notts.]

C. 5858. Quitclaim by Agnes Hunter (Venator) of Strel' to
Sir Robert de Strel', son of Walter de Strel', Avis his wife, and the heirs
of their bodies, of her land late of Hugh Hunter (Venatoris) of Strel'.
Witnesses:—Sir Hugh de Duyn, William, rector of Strel', and others
(named).



Notts.

C. 5859. Grant by Avis Godard, daughter of Augustine Godard,
to Maud daughter of William Meynard, for her service, of a messuage
with all buildings thereon opposite the church of St. Mary in
Nottingham, formerly of Master Richard Roche (de Rupe), uncle of
the said Avis; rent, ½d. at Easter. Witnesses:—Robert Daft, Richard
Becok, and others (named).



[Oxford.]

C. 5860. Grant by Adam de Meynleg, son of Vincent, with the
consent of Isabel his wife, to Walter de la Pole and Alice (Alesie) his
wife of ½a. land in the field of Sydenham towards Emington; rent,
a rose at Midsummer. For this grant Walter gave him 7s. 6d. in gersum.



[Bucks.]

C. 5861. Grant by John de Kinebell to the hospital of St. John
in Neuport Painel in frank almoin of a yearly rent of 1d. at Lady Day
for 4a. land in the fields of Tirincham. abutting on 'Alwine Weie,'
at 'Luttlehul,' in 'Dighefurlong.' 'Mokeputsclade,' 'Oldefordesclade,'
under 'Gilluho,' and in the meadow of 'Ludenhei.' If he shall have
no heirs of his body, the lands to go to the hospital after the death
of Clarice his wife; but if he shall have heirs of his body, he and they
shall redeem the rent. Seal, damaged.



Derby.

C. 5862. Grant by William son of Henry to Herbert Scian in free
marriage with Maud his daughter and heir of an oxgang in Macwrth,
as also of all his land after his death. Witnesses:—Robert de
Sautcheverel, Philip de Stretleg, Godfrey Espigurnel, William de
Pitlishan, chir[ographer], and others (named). Seal.



[Bucks.]

C. 5863. Grant by Baldwin son of Robert Palmer of
Witech[erche] to Simon son of Ralph the plumber (plumbarii), his
heirs and assigns, except religious houses, for his homage and service,
of a messuage adjoining the house which Robert Bull formerly had
and 3a. land in 'Pychehambroke,' at 'Buttes,' on 'Blachemulde'
and 'Hollawe,' between 'Voxenmore' and 'Bendelmore,' &c., all
in Witech[erche]; rent for all service save foreign service, 12d.
For this grant Simon gave him 3½ marks beforehand. Witnesses:—
Robert son of Peter de Ovinge, and others (named).



[Notts]

C. 5864. Grant by Osbert, chaplain of William Brigvare, to
Geoffrey Sumervile, of an oxgang which he had by the gift of Hugh
[Page 275]
Beaumont (de Bellomonte) in the territory of Kawrde; rent for all
service save the king's foreign service, 6d. Witnesses:—Sir John
Brigvare, Richard de Wileforde, clerk, John, chaplain of William
Brigvare, Henry, parson of Roldestone, Gervase de Clivetone and
Geoffrey his brother, William, parson of Cotegrave, and others (named).



[Leic.]

C. 5865. Grant by Geoffrey Puterel, son of Henry Puterel, to Adam
son of Roger de Herdeby of a yard-land which Gilbert the clerk held
in the territory of Howes and which Henry gave to Adam for his
homage and service. Witnesses:—Gerard de Fanecurth, Roger son of
the steward, Geoffrey son of Houder, and others (named).



[Kent.]

C. 5866. Grant by John de Godintune to William Potin of part of
his land in the town of Strodes; rent, 5s. 10d. for all service save
the king's service, viz. 17½d. for ward; and he grants and confirms
to the said William land held of William Burgelai, being partly the
site of the grantee's barns, land called 'Suthelde' held of Walkelin de
Northslade, and land in Northslade held of Walkelin son of Odo.
For these grants and confirmations the said William has paid him
40s. in gersum. Witnesses:—Henry de Cobham, Roger Wastehole,
William son of Roger, John the Englishman (anglico), Robert Durant,
John de Belevile, John son of Simon, Hugh son of Geoffrey, Hanfrid
the dyer (tinctore), Richard son of Simon, Ralph Burcekin, Simon
and Walter But. Seal in wrapping.



[Herts.]

C. 5867. Demise by Thomas son of Lawrence to William Agn'
of land which the said Lawrence had in Estebroc and a messuage
abutting on the road to Estwod, from Michaelmas, 13 Henry III,
for 18 years; money expended on the buildings by the tenant to be
repaid at the end of the term. Witnesses:—Henry Lenweise, lord of
the fee, and others (named). Seal, damaged. Endorsed, Hemelamsted.



[Staff.]

C. 5868. Chirograph indented witnessing that whereas Roger son
of Robert de Levynton has surrendered to Sir Hamon Lestraunge
and Margaret his wife all the lands, &c. which he had from them
within the manor of Levynton, they will give him for his life half the
crops of corn and hay growing year by year on the demesne lands
surrendered by him. Monday, the feast of St. Dunstan, 16 Edward III.
French.



[Norf.]

C. 5869. Grant by Robert son of Theobald de Smalberghe to
Sir William de Stalham, son of William de Stalham, of ½a. land
and one-third of a messuage in Smalberghe abutting on the road
leading out of Smalberghe to Thunested for his homage and service
and half a mark in gersum; rent, 2d. at the Translation of
St. Benedict. Witnesses:—Henry the constable, Richard le Heuker,
and others (named).



[Salop.]

C. 5870. Quitclaim by Ralph Nohel and Alice his wife, Philip le
Waite, Roger le Tailur, Adam de la Lee, Hugh de la Lee and Eleanor
his wife, John the smith (faber), William son of Richard Hamund,
Ralph de Vivario, Christian his wife, and John his son, John de Hulle,
Agnes and Margery daughters of John Mead (de Prato), William de
Mees, and Mabel late the wife of John Mead (de Prato), to Robert
de Levinton, lord of Blakemere, of their right of digging turf for
the process of steeping flax in the mere (maram) of Blakemere on
the heath called 'Blakemereheth,' except in a certain enclosed place
by the weir of Blakemere; and of their right in a field called
[Page 276]
'le Byrchisfeld,' so that it may be closed (in defensum) from Michaelmas
to Martinmas; cattle may be driven out but not impounded (sine
imparcamento) if found there by reason of a broken fence or a gate
off its hinges (hesie non pendentis), but if they or their heirs shall
wantonly break down the gate or fence, the damage is to be made
good by impounding the cattle. Nine seals, some damaged.



[Leic.]

C. 5871. Grant by Richard Cheynel to Ralph Grym, lord of
Heccote, of 7 yard-lands in the town of Bildestona which John son of
Siward the smith (fabri) of Totesbir' formerly held of him and
which, together with the homage and service of the said Ralph, the
said John made over to him; rent for all service save the king's foreign
service, 7s. Witnesses:—Sir Robert le Poter, and others (named).



[Bucks.]

C. 5872. Grant by Walter the clerk (clericus), son of Eborard de
Neuport to the hospital of St. John the Baptist and St. John the
Evangelist, Neuport, and the brethren and sisters of the same in
frank almoin, for the maintenance of strangers and poor persons,
of his messuage with houses, courtyard (curto), &c, in Neuport, by
the north bridge; rent to the chief lord of Neuport, 6d. and to the
monks of Neuport, 18d. Witnesses:—John de Culeye, bailiff, and
others (named). Endorsed, Carte Walteri Ewehar. Nota vjd. rent
owt of Coblers howse to the lorde of Newport and xviijd. to
the abbey. Paten'.



[Heref.]

C. 5873. Grant by Master William de Colewella to his two
daughters Margery and Edith, their heirs and assigns except
religious houses, for their services, of land called 'Witewelle' and a
grove at Brochulle; rent for all services save the king's service, 3d.
Witnesses:—Master Hugh de Furches, Gilbert Barri, and others
(named). Seal in white wax, damaged.



[Leic]

C. 5874. Grant by William son of Geoffrey le Blunt, clerk, of
Shepe, to William son of William Burdet, for his service, of a messuage,
in the territory of Shepe. For this grant he has received 18 marks
beforehand. Witnesses:—Sir Thomas de Hendissouere, knight, Sewall
Tuchet, Walter de Culi, Robert de Shepe, rector of Musselawe, and
others (named). Seal. Endorsed, Carta Willelmi Wyte, clerk.



[Worc.]

C. 5875. Grant by Richard Perkyn of Maderesfelde to Walter de
Inteberwe, chaplain, for life, of a place of land called 'le Culverhey'
stretching from the king's highway to 'le Neweleiton'; remainder
to Alice Hathiel, Juliana her daughter, and the heirs of the body
of the said Juliana; warranty of the dower which Edith Ssekelok
had. Maderesfelde, Thursday after Michaelmas, 4 Edward III. Seal.
Endorsed, Farley.



[Kent.]

C. 5876. Grant by Robert son of Gervase the bridgekeeper
(pontarii) of Tunebrig to Richard de Clara, his lord, of the rents he
received from the prior of Tunebrig, and others (named). For this
grant the said Richard has given him 32 marks in gersum.
Witnesses:—Sir John de Say, and others (named).



[Essex.]

C. 5877. Grant by Geoffrey Perfey to Ralph de Grendon, for
his homage and service, of land called 'Wulwineshey' adjoming the
road to Lhosey, and of a rent of 7d. due from William de Hilgad from
land called 'Wodvfeld,' all at a rent of ½d. at every scutage.
Witnesses:—Sir Hugh de Lassandr', William son of Galiana, and others
(named).

[Page 277]


[Kent.]

C. 5878. Grant by Walter Convers to Sir Richard de Clara, earl of
Gloucester and Hertford, for his service and for 20 marks beforehand,
of a messuage which Roger Ketel formerly held in the town of
Tonebrug and 2½a. meadow in 'Vort Eylonde,' and a messuage in
the town of Tonebrug called 'Vinitria'; rent, five peppercorns
at Michaelmas. Witnesses:—Sir John, prior of Tonebrug,
Sir William de Merworth, Geoffrey de Rokeburn, steward of Tonebrug,
Peter and Richard Haudlo, and others (named).



[Essex.]

C. 5879. Grant by Richard son of Peter de Binesle to Ralph de
Grandone, of the homage and service, to wit, a rent of 8d., which
Robert de Bramdone the parson paid him for a pasture called 'Holm.'
The said Ralph is to pay at the rate of ½d. for every scutage of 20s.
For this grant the said Ralph has given him half a mark in gersum.
Witnesses:—Sir Ingelarius de Cantelur, Sir Hugh de Lassandre. and
others (named).



[Bedford.]

C. 5880. Grant by Henry III to Joan de Albiniaco of a market
and fair at her manor of Amethull. 6 May, 26 Henry III. (Charter
Roll, 26 Henry III, m. 2.)



[Staff.]

C. 5881. Grant by Robert de . . . . ere to Richard Skeyl of
Bettileg of two places of land within the fee of Bettileg containing
9 selions stretching to 'le Tounbache' and to the ditch (le doyt) coming
from the park; rent to the chief lord of Bettileg, 4d. For this grant
the said Richard gave him 12s. beforehand. Witnesses:—William
de Th[ick]nesse and John le Wafetter, bailiffs of Bettileg, and others
(named).



[Herts.]

C. 5882. Grant by Agnes daughter of Walter le Grant to William
de la Sale of Drayton and Alice his wife of a messuage and land in
Betelaue. Witnesses:—Sir Robert, treasurer (treserario) of St. Paul's,
Ralph, lord of Merston, Ralph the clerk (clerico) of Trenge, and others
(named). Saturday before the feast of St. Mark, 11 Edward I.
Endorsed, Quieta clamacio Angnete le Graund de Huccote.



[Hants.]

C. 5883. Grant by Guy de Terstewode to Geoffrey Brug, his nephew,
son of Adam Bruge, for his homage and service, of a messuage in
Terstewode which he had by the gift of Richard de Terstewode, his
brother, for his homage and service, and land in Sudhee, adjoining
Stomburne, in Wike, and elsewhere; rent, half a pound of cummin
at Michaelmas for all service save the king's and 3s. to the chief lord
at the feast of St. Ethelfleda. Witnesses:—Edmund the priest
(sacerdote) of Nutscelling, Edmund his son, Thomas the priest of
Welewe, Roger de Vilers, and others (named). Seal, damaged.
Endorsed, Vyot de Terstuhudu.



[Hants.]

C. 5884. Grant by Nicholas de Brummore to William de
Brummore, his brother, for his homage and service, of 14a. land of
the half hide which Robert de Brummore, his father, held from the
leper ladies of Bradel, whereof 8a. are in Wingate and 3a. are in
Brochland; rent, 2 . . at the feast of St. Giles, all formerly held by
Robert, father of the grantor, of the leper ladies of Bradele.
Witnesses:—Robert . . . . Maria, Richard de Chardunvil, Philip
de Linguire, Hugh de Godeshull, Roger de Burleh, John de Hardebrig,
Henry de Biketun, Geoffrey de Perushes, Robert de Kernet and
Richard de Henleg. Seal, damaged.

[Page 278]


[Kent.]

C. 5885. Grant by Ralph the bald (canutus), to Baldwin the
chamberlain (camerario), of rents in the town of Tunbregia, of
12d. from Peter the forester (forestario), 10d. from Stephen son of
Martin, 10d. from Roger Ketel, and 4d. from Ralph Turke; rent,
half a pound of pepper for all service. Witnesses:—Peter de
Barindennia, Nicholas the lay-brother (converso), Richard de
Thalamo, Peter the forester (forestario), Roger son of Peter, Geoffrey,
Roger, and Ralph the foresters, and Roger the chaplain (capellano).



[Herts.]

C. 5886. Grant by Anne de Wivelestorn to Robert Hodius of
Bettelawe, for his homage and service, of ½a. land in the field of
Bettelawe; rent, 1d. at the Finding of the Holy Cross.



[Leic.]

C. 5887. Grant by Geoffrey Puterel, son of Henry Puterel, to Adam
son of Roger de Herdebi of two oxgangs in the territory of Houwes;
rent, 8s. For this grant the said Adam gave him 3 marks beforehand.



[Kent.]

C. 5888. Grant by Roger the cook (cocus) to Ro . . de Roklay
of a yearly rent of 42d., being the services of Henry son of Gervase,
Nicholas his brother, John son of William, and Ralph the weaver
(tixtor), in exchange for 7½a. land lying to the east of his house; rent,
2d. Witnesses:—Alexander de Stalesfeld, and others (named).



[Oxford. Bucks.]

C. 5889. Grant by Isabel St. Faith (de Sancta Fide), widow, to Maud
her daughter, for her service, of a yard-land in the town of Wendlebyr'
which John son of Roger held of William de Greynvyle her husband
and herself, and of a messuage in the town of Chilton which Robert
de Warmodeston formerly held of her; also of Robert Beneyt in
villeinage together with his issue (sequela) and chattels; rent, a clove
at Easter for all service save the king's scutage. Witnesses:—Walter
de Burgh, Walter Knight (milite), Nicholas de Lucy, and others
(named). Endorsed, Carta de Wendlyngburgh.



[Notts.]

C. 5890. Grant by John de Wilers to Payn de Wilers his nephew
of two oxgangs in the territory of Caverton which William his brother
gave him and of a toft and croft there; rent, a pair of white gloves or 1d.
for all service save foreign service. Witnesses:—Ralph de Crumbwell,
Philip Scrop, Richard Barri, and others (named).



[Devon.]

C. 5891. Grant by Roger, lord of Bockelonde, to William de Bruges
for life of all the land in Bughedun which Matthew le Metehyne holds,
together with the said Matthew, but not his children, with common of
pasture such as his other tenants have, and housebote and heybote
in his wood of Bocklaunde by view of his bailiffs; rent, 6d. with suit
of court. Witnesses:—Roger de Baggetorre, and others (named).



[Sussex.]

C. 5892. Grant by Andrew, nephew and heir of Alan le Drapur
of Horsham, to Walter Rannulff of Horsham and Maud his wife, for
20s. in gersum, of a yearly rent of 2s. 6d. in Horsham due from William
Brunig and Walter le Bass; rent, a clove at Michaelmas. Witnesses:—
William le Puff, Robert Tribel, and others (named).



[Warw.]

C. 5893. Quitclaim by William de Brugge and Olive his wife to
John son of Hugh of their right in 3 hides and a yard-land in
Haselora which they claim against Oliver de Haseleia. And if John
shall buy the land from Oliver, he shall do them the service due
therefor. Witnesses:—Geoffrey Savage (Salvagi), Otuel Lisle
(de Insula), Roger de Strattune, Hugh de Wichthulle, John Huscarl,
John de Suetuna, Hamon the clerk.

[Page 279]


[Somerset.]

C. 5894. Grant by Maud late the wife of . . . de Langhaye
to John . . . of Pethaye, for his homage and service and for
. . . shillings in gersum, of a piece of land in the town of Wiveltune
abutting on the road to Langhaye, given in free marriage with her
by Alice her mother; rent to the chief lord of the fee, 4d.; scutage, ½d.



Bucks.

C. 5895. Grant by Hugh de Gurnai and Millicent his wife to Robert
de Turri, his man, for his service, of 20 shillings' worth of land to dwell
upon (ad se hospitandum) at Bledeslewes, which land was late of
Hemming and of Aylmer and Aylwin de Northgravia, and grant
to the said Robert of 4l. in coin of his rent (de firma mea) of
Bledeslewes, to be paid at Michaelmas, Candlemas, Whitsuntide
and St. Peter's Chains, until they give him 4 librates of land; rent,
one sore sparrow-hawk or 2s. Witnesses:—Ralph the chaplain
(capellano), John de Hosdeng, William de Merlo, Oliver de Age, Anffrei
the sewer (dapifero), Hodus de Brumustier, Hugh of the Castle (de
Castello), Ralph Rivers (de Riveria), Hugh de Burgennun, William de
Moreingni, Hugh Brun, Warnier the chamberlain (camerario), and
Richard the archer (archario).



[Herts.] [Bucks.]

C. 5896. Quitclaim by John de Jerpenvill to Sir Geoffrey de
Jarpenvill, of his right in all the homages, rents and services which he
had by the gift of Maud Basset his mother in Ticecot, together with
a yearly rent of 8s. charged on the mill of Messewrth. For this quit-
claim the said Geoffrey gave him a rent of 22s. Witnesses:—Alan
Basset, Luke de Jerpenvill, and others (named).



[Suffolk.]

C. 5897. Grant by Roger son of William Esturmy to Maurice
son of Semannus the smith (fabri), for his homage and service, of all the
land which the said Semannus held of the said William in Suburn
and the parish of Ykanno, to hold to him, his heirs and assigns
except religious houses; rent, 2s. payable at Michaelmas, the feast of
St. Andrew, Easter, and the feast of St. Botolph, and at the mowing of
the meadow, 1d., and for castle guard at Lancaster, 3d. at Whitsuntide,
for all service save the king's service, viz. scutage at the rate of 5¼d.
on 20s. For this grant the said Maurice has given him 20s. Wit-
nesses:—Adam Fausabrun, John son of William, lord (domino) of
Chiselford, and others (named). Endorsed, [Sud]burn and Iken.



[Notts.]

C. 5898. Grant by J. abbot of Stanleg Park and the convent of the
same place to Geoffrey the clerk (clerico) of Stretleg, son of Roger de
Stretleg, for his homage and service, of a place of land called
'Brockishale,' reckoned as (pro) 15a., lying between the land of
William le Morteyn and the land of Robert de Stretleg; rent, 5s.
Witnesses:—Sir Robert de Stretleg, Robert de Muscham, Robert de
Brunisleg, and others (named). Endorsed, Strelley Cossall.



[Staff.] [Chester.]

C. 5899. Grant by H. de Blakenhale to H. de Aldithel of all his
meadow under AVrimeford, situate as described, except his grove of
Heiwode; rent, a pair of white gloves worth 1d. at the feast of
St. Giles.



[Herts.]

C. 5900. Quitclaim by William son of Walter le Grand of Huccotc
to William de la Sale of Draiton and Alice his wife of their right in a
tenement in Betelaue. Witnesses:—Ralph, lord of Merston, Simon
le Rotur, and others (named). Seal, damaged.






      

  


  

  
    
      PreviousTable of contentsNext
  


      
      

    

  

  
      
      
        
              
  
    
      
            


      
  

    
                      
    Footer menu
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Help
              
          
        About the project
              
          
        Terms of use
              
          
        Privacy and Cookies
              
          
        Accessibility
              
        
  


  


  
    
      
            Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London


      
  


        
      
    
  

  










