


  








    Deeds: B.1401 - B.1500 | British History Online
    


      




    
    
    
    
    



  Skip to main content



  
    





  
    
          
  
    
  
      
      BHO | British History Online
    
      
  


    
                      
    Main navigation
    
  
  
        

  
    
      
    
    
                    
              
                  Browse Catalogue
                      
          
                  Subject guides
                      
          
                  Using BHO
                      
          
                  About
                      
          
                  Subscribe
                      
          
                  News
                      
        
  
    
  


  


    
                      
    Login
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Login
              
          
        Register
              
        
  


  



    
  

  
  

  

  

  

  

    

      
      
      
            
  
    
        ';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
    Breadcrumb
    
          
                  Home
              
          
                  A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds
              
        
  

  


  
    
      
  Deeds: B.1401 - B.1500



  

  
    
      

  
    A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 1. 

    
    Originally published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1890.

    
  



    This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 
    



  
    
      Citation:
        
          BHO
          Chicago
          MLA		
        
    
    
      
'Deeds: B.1401 - B.1500', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 1, ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1890), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol1/pp349-359 [accessed 3 July 2026].
    


    
      
'Deeds: B.1401 - B.1500', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 1. Edited by   H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1890), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
 https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol1/pp349-359.
    


    
      
"Deeds: B.1401 - B.1500". A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 1. Ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London, 1890), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol1/pp349-359.
    


  
  
    
  

  
    

  

            
        Keyword Highlight
        
        Search
        
      
     
    
            
  



B.1401 - B.1500





[Camb.]

B. 1401. Demise in fee farm by Nicholas son of Beatrix de Ely and
Agnes his wife, to William de Overe, of Elm, of land with buildings
thereon in the Redmor field of Elm, abutting upon the bank of the Elm.
Tuesday after St. Hilary, 7 Edward II. Seal.



[ ]

B. 1402. Grant in frank almoin by John de Stanleya son of Geoffrey,
to the church of St. Mary and the monks of Stanley, of a rent issuing out
of land and a tenement in Ellesch', Witnesses:—Robert de Wyalakesford,
William Tylan, Henry de Cobinton, and others (named). Seal.



Berks.

B. 1403. Grant by John Alisaundre, of Newbury, to Richard son of
Roger Lovekyn, of the same place, of the land and commonage in the field
of Esteneborne, which he had of the grant of William Balet. Wednesday
the Translation of St. Thomas the Martyr, 7 Edward III.



Berks.

B. 1404. Surrender by Thomas Monolf, of Newbury, to John Balet,
of lands and tenements in the vill of Enebourne. Thursday after
St. Dunstan the Bishop, 14 Edward III. Seal.



[Essex.]

B. 1405. Covenant between Peter Picot and Henry de Pinkeny
relative to a messuage, land, and mill in Dodenho in the parish of Elmedone
held by him. Each to have an entire moiety of services, &c., due from the
said messuage, land, and mill, viz., by receiving the same in alternate years
56 Henry III. Seal broken.



[Middx.]

B. 1406. Release by John le Bourser of Edelmettone to his brother
Richard le Bouser, of his right in land in Edelmettone (Edmonton)
abutting upon 'le Heyebreggestat'. Wednesday before the Purification,
2 Edward III. Seal.



[Camb.]

B. 1407. Indenture between John de Goldyngham and Eleanor his
wife, of the one part, and Thomas, parson of the church of Lamblech
(Landbeach), and Alan his brother, Ivo vicar of the church of Hyngeston
(Hinxton), and Gilbert Bernard, of the other, relative to a moiety of the
manor of Eltesle (Eltisley), and of the advowson of the church of that
place and to the payment of a sum of money.

[Page 350]


Kent.

B. 1408. Demise by Thomas Haute to Hamond Mexsted, of the
parish of Elmysted, of lands in the parish of Elmysted (Elmstead)
called 'Holte' and 'Holtisdowne.' 21 December, 13 Henry VII.
Fragment of seal.



[Warw.]

B. 1409. Release by Alice, late the wife of Abell Cordi of Etone, to
John de Langeleye, of Coventry, and Alice his wife, of her right in the
lands and tenements in Etone, which John de Hynkele, clerk, and the said
John de Langeleye and Alice his wife had of the grant of her said husband,
Abell Cordi. Wednesday in Whitsun week, 15 Edward II. Seal.



[Warw.]

B. 1410. Grant by Humphrey de Brouton, of Nunne Etone, to
William le Redeknave of Bornton', of half a burgage in the vill of Etone.
Sunday before St. Dunstan the Archbishop, 3 Edward II. Fragment
of seal.



[Kent.]

B. 1411. Release by Richard Parnele, of Boxley, to Roger Mool, of
that place, of his right in a right-of-way from his house to his land called
'Northfeld' at Elstede, in the vill of Boxley. Tuesday before St. Peter
ad Vincula, 10 Edward III.



[ ]

B. 1412. Grant by Matthew son of Roger de Munstreworth (Minsterworth) to Nicholas son of Roger de Boyfeld, of lands in le Cornhom'e, in
'le Inhechingg,' and at Esteneye. Witnesses:—William Hathewy,
William de Boyfeld, and others (named). Hampton, Monday after
Michaelmas Day, 14 Edward II. Seal.



[Hants.]

B. 1413. Release by Henry, prior of St. Denys, Southampton, to Robert
le Barbyer of Southampton, of his right in a rent issuing out of houses in
Estrete [in Southampton]. Witnesses:—Robert le Barbyer, alderman of
Southampton, John de Puteo, and Adam le Hordyr, the bailiffs of that town,
and others (named). Fragment of seal.



[ ]

B. 1414. Grant in frank almoin by William de Symily to the church
of St. Mary, Stanley, and the monks of that place, of a meadow in Essesho
called 'Homedwe.' Witnesses:—John de Stanlea, Henry de Cubinton,
William Tysun, and others (named).



[Warw.]

B. 1415. Grant by Matthew the Smith (faber) of Nunne Etone, to
Humphrey de Broucton, of half a burgage with its houses in the vill of
Etone. Saturday after St. Bartholomew the Apostle, 1 Edward II.
Seal.



[Surr.]

B. 1416. Grant by John Kypping, of the parish of Ewelle, to John
Tabard, of the same place, of land in the common field of Ewelle lying in
Longefurlong. Sunday, the feast of St. Martin, 9 Henry IV. Seal.



[Hunts.]

B. 1417. Grant by Geoffrey Edessone, of Cotene in Elington, and
John his son, Alice Brymbel, of Elington, Alan Buk', Adam Buk', Roger
in the Hale, Hugh de Bryngton, Agnes Buk', Agnes Broun, John Reignold,
Adam Muriel, Walter Burgeis, Richard son of Matilda and Richard Bettessone, all of Elington, to William de Corton and Robert de Burgo, clerks, of
a cottage with a curtilage and lands in Elyngton. 22 June, 2 Edward III.
Seal.



[Berks.]

B. 1418. Agreement between John Balat, of Eneborne, and Thomas
Monolf, relative to lands, &c., in the fields of Esteneborne, and to the
repayment of a sum of money. 9 Edward III. Seal.

[Page 351]


[Berks.]

B. 1419. Grant by William Balet, of Esteneburne, to his brother John
Balet and to Julia, the latter's wife, of a messuage with a curtilage in Esteneburne. Tuesday before Whitsuntide, 1 Edward III.



[Berks.]

B. 1420. Grant by William Balet, of Estenedeburne, to John
Alisaundre, of Thacham, and Isabella his wife, of lands in the field of
Estenedeburne at Goldhegge, 'le Esleswey,' Stoniforlong, next the land of
the prior of Sandelford, and at Falghulle and Crondle. Sunday alter
St. Denys, 18 Edward II. Seal broken.



[Berks.]

B. 1421. Grant by John Alisaundre, of Newbury, to Ralph le Fatte,
of Brytwalton, of land in the field of Esteneburne in Thornhulle forlong.
Wednesday after the Invention of the Holy Cross, 7 Edward III.



[Camb.]

B. 1422. Grant by Agnes, daughter of Richard de Ecclesia, to
William de Banburne, of a messuage in Ely. Witnesses:—Henry de
Walpol, Robert Joye, Geoffrey Wrabeneyl, and others (named). Seal
broken.



[Linc.]

B. 1423. Demise by Alice atte Tounehende, of Over Brunham
(Burnham), to Ralph son of Thomas, of the same place, of land on the
Emroye [in Over Brunham.] Witnesses:—Thomas de Brunham, Robert
Takel, Thomas Brune, William Laundeles, Roger Everarde, Roger Til, and
Thomas Til, clerk. Michaelmas, 1294.



[Leic.]

B. 1424. Release by Joan, late the wife of Thomas le Mareschal of
Stapelton, to John de Hinkeleya, of her right as dower in a portion of a
tenement in Etone. Barewelle, All Saints Day, 32 Edward I.



[Warw.]

B. 1425. Grant by Abel called le Verny of Etone, to John de
Hynkeleya, clerk, of a croft without the vill of Etone abutting upon the
road to Wedinton (Weddington). Witnesses:—John Hychemon of Etone,
Henry called le Wayte, Henry Dun, Abel Cordy and others (named).

Endorsed: Etone, 'le Hawe croft.' Seal.



[Rutl.]

B. 1426. Grant in frank almoin by Agnes, late the wife of Peter de
Gurneys, to the nuns of St. Michael's, Stanford, of a toft in the vill and
land in the territory of Ettone. Witnesses:—Stephen de Stokes, knight.
Thomas de Ufford, steward of the town, Laurence de Burton, and others
(named).



[ ]

B. 1427. Decision of the prior and sub-prior of St Oswald, Gloucester,
commissaries of the prior of Pionia, the chief judge delegated by the
apostolic authority, relative to the tithes of the mill of Eton in the diocese
of Hereford, in dispute between the convent of St. Peter of Gloucester, in
the diocese of Worcester, and the prior of Ewyas of the one part, and the
prioress and convent of Acornebury of the other; viz., the nuns to
have the toll of the mill, reserving to the prior of Ewyas the tithe of the
fishery of the mill pool and half a mark payable by the prioress to the said
prior of Ewyas, A.D. 1281. Fragment of seal.



[Warw.]

B. 1428. Grant by Richard Walrand to John de Hynkeleva, clerk
of half a burgage in the vill of Eton. Thursday after the Epiphany,
3 Edward II. Fragment of seal.



[Warw.]

B. 1429. Grant by Henry de Wedinton, chaplain, to John de
Hynkeleya, of land in the territory of Etone. Witnesses:—John Ycheman
of Etone, Henry called le Wayte, John Scot, Abel called le Verny, and
Henry Dun. [Edward I.] Seal.

[Page 352]


[Warw.]

B. 1430. Release by William son and heir of Amicia de Wedinton,
to John de Hynkeleia, of his right in the land in the fields of Etone, of
which he had enfeoffed his brother Henry the Chaplain. Witnesses:—John
Ychemon of Eton, Henry le Wayte, John Scot, Abel called le Verny, and
Henry Dun. Wednesday after Michaelmas Day, 1303. Seal broken.



[Wilts.]

B. 1431. Grant by Robert Fox, of Esthrop next Heygworth, to
Richard Foxle, of Heygworth (Highworth), of lands in the field of Esthrop
[in the parish of Highworth] and of pasturage in the common pasture of that
place, viz., lands in Hidsladforlong, Moodforlong next the land of the
rector of the church of Heygworth, 'le Benelonde', at Haukwellelake, in
Zelwebrech, and at Grundewel. Sunday after St. Gregory the Pope,
20 Edward III. Seal.



[Worc.]

B. 1432. Grant by William Holte, of Gloucester, and Philip Haxeforde, of Evesham, chaplains, to Hugh Byden and Amicia his wife, of the
lands and tenements in Evesham, which they had of the feoffment of
the said Amicia. Feast of St. Scholastica the Virgin, 48 Edward III.



[Warw.]

B. 1433. Release by Richard de Anesty to Roger de Etone, chaplain,
vicar of the church of Anestleye, of lands in the territory, and a messuage
in the vill of Etone to hold from the prioress and convent of Eton
(Nuneaton). Witnesses:—Hugh de Lilleburne, Richard de Staverton
in Anestleye, Walter de Anestleye, and others (named). Seal




[Essex.]

B. 1434. Grant by Thomas Sudberi, of Estilleberi (East Tilbury),
the younger, to Thomas Mon, of the same place, of a messuage with a
curtilage and land in the vill of Estyllebery, abutting upon the road from
the passage of Estyllebery to Horndon. Feast of St. Edward the King,
9 Henry VI. Fragment of seal.



Wilts.

B. 1435. Release by Robert Wylkyns, of Englesham, co. Berks, to
Thomas Seymor, knight, of his right in land in Esthroppe in the parish
of Highworth, lately purchased by him from the said Henry Highworth.
31 December, 34 Henry VIII. Seal.



Wilts.

B. 1436. Grant by Robert Hampton to Thomas Stone, and Margaret
his wife, of pasturage in Esthorpe [in the parish of Highworth]. 23 May,
24 Henry VI. Seal.

Also a schedule of lands in Esthrope lying in Longe Lypyate, Oldelonde,
Recheforde Londe, Brodewey forlong, Foxleylonde, abutting upon Ingilsame
field, between Okydewey forlong and Foxleyslonde, in Lytill Londe, in
Merfurlong and Lyntys Courte, Shorte Brode, Brouwe, Mede forlong,
Hommer Slate furlong, and Pykkards Rowndon and elsewhere in Esthrope
aforesaid.



Wilts.

B. 1437. Release by John Cole, of Estropp next Hyworth, co. Wilts,
son of John Cole, and by William Levyng, of Westroppe next Hyworth,
son of Walter Levyng, to Walter Kybbull, of Westropp, of his right in
land in Estropp called 'Lambertsheye' abutting upon Maundevykes close.
Feast of SS. Peter and Paul, 7 Edward IV.



Wilts.

B. 1438. Grant by Thomas Stone of Hyghworthe, co. Wilts, to John
Fedeler, kinsman and heir of Richard Foxley, of lands in the vill and fields
of Estrop at Gavenell, Smythmore, 'le Breche,' Slatesfurlouge, in Rowndon,
Longmore, Longedowne, 'le Lynche,' Sevenamhyll and Capecroft. 1 October,
22 Edward IV. Fragment of seal.

[Page 353]


Wilts.

B. 1439. Demise by Thomas Stone, of Hyghworth, co. Wilts, to John
Fedeler, kinsman and heir of Richard Foxley, of lands within the dominion
of Estrop, viz. in Brodweye furlonge, Hokydweye furlonge, Lityll Londe,
abutting upon Leynt, in Merefurlonge, Shorte Brodeborowe, Medefurlonge,
Homer Slate furlonge, Pycard's Rowndon, Benelonde, Brodeweye Furlonge
within Leyntes Courte, Yelowbreche, Longebrecho, 'le Ynlonde,' Lougelypyate, Rechesfordelond, Oldelonde, Drakelawnde, Sowndurmede and
Rowndon; and also of the reversion of land in 'le Estmede.' 1 October,
22 Edward IV. Seal.



Wilts.

B. 1440. Letter of attorney by Thomas Seymor, knight, of Edyngdon,
co. Wilts, for John Warneford and Ambrose Chapneys to receive seisin
from William Pleydell, of Colleshalle, co. Berks, of lands, messuages, and
tenements in Esthroppe, Westbroppe, Highworth, Hampton, Turvyle and
Sevenhampton. 4 July, 33 Henry VIII. Fragment of seal.



Essex.

B. 1441. Confirmation by John son of William de Melchebourn, of
his father's conveyance to Nicholas Ploket of lands in Essex. 19 April,
34 Edward III. Seal.



Wilts.

B. 1442. Grant by William son of William atte Mulle of Sevenhamptone, to Henry le Smyth of Heghoworth, and Lucy his wife, of lands
in the field of Esthrope lying upon 'la Garestone,' at Grenelinche, and
abutting upon Greneweys, and Budewelle, in Churchweyeforlong, at
'la Sonne,' Malimbrech, Garascroft, Stotforlong, Gavenhulle in 'le
Wowelonde,' upon Walhulle, Byllingborwe, upon Sevenhame Hulle, and
of a right of commonage in the common pasture of Esthrope. Monday,
the feast of St. Thomas the Apostle, 6 Edward III.



Herts.

B. 1443. Demise by John Say, knight, Thomas Montgomery, knight,
John Clapton, John Grene and David Mortymer to Nicholas Leventhorp
and Nicholas Bryt, of all lands and tenements, woods, &c., in Esenden and
Bishops Hatfield, with the advowson of the chantry of St. Anne in the
church of Bishops Hatfield, which the demisors had of the feoffment of
Stephen Wolfe and Thomas Stoughton. Letter of attorney for John
Wyghtman and John Node. 7 March, 6 Edward IV. Seal.



[ ]

B. 1444. Grant by Walrand Lupus, rector of the church of Essen,
to Simon de Landen', his bastard (nutrito meo), of lands in 'le Holmforlong' and elsewhere in the field of Essen. Witnesses:—Waiter Mantel,
of Hertwell, Robert de Wyk, Andrew de Braham, and others (named).



Herts.

B. 1445. Grant by John Tyler, of Essenden, co. Hertford, and Joan
his wife, to William Basset, John Sondere, and Matthew Sampson, of a
tenement called 'Kyllynghames,' and land in the vill and parish of Essenden
in the hamlet of Wyldehelle, which the said John and Joan had of the
feoffment of Richard Umfrey. Thursday before SS. Simon and Jude,
11 Henry VI. Seals.



Herts.

B. 1446. Grant by William Bassette, of Essenden, co. Hertford, John
Sondere, and Matthew Sampson, to John Tylere, the younger, of Essenden,
of a tenement called 'Kyllynghames,' and land in the vill and parish of
Essenden in the hamlet of Wyldehelle, which they had of the feoffment of
John Tylere, the elder, and Joan his wife. Thursday after St. Andrew
the Apostle, 11 Henry VI. Seals.



Herts.

B. 1447. Demise by Robert de Louthe to Richard Pottere, of
Esynden, and Joan his wife, of land called 'Ruschlese' in Esynden
abutting upon the road called 'Wyldegrene.' Vigil of the Translation of
St. Thomas the Martyr, 3 Henry IV. Seal.

[Page 354]


Herts.

B. 1448. Grant by John Oskyn and Isabella his wife, to John Sock
and Katherine his wife, of land in the vill of Esenden in the field called
'Colyngredyng,' abutting upon the road from Wyldhulle towards the bridge
called 'Janynbrug.' Sunday after St. Denys, 38 Edward III. Seal
broken.



[Warw.]

B. 1449. Grant by Abel Cordy, of Etone, to John de Hynkeleye
clerk, of a messuage with a curtilage in the vill of Etone. Witnesses:—
Henry le Wayte of Etone, John Hycheman, John Scot, Abel de Verny,
and others (named). Seal.



Herts.

B. 1450. Letter of attorney by John Oskyn and Isabella his wife,
for Richard Page, of Esenden, to deliver to John Sock and Katherine his
wife, seisin of land in the vill of Esenden. Sunday after St. Denys,
38 Edward III. Seals.



Herts. Middx.

B. 1451. Grant by Robert Louthe, esquire, of the county of Hertford,
to the illustrious prince, Humphrey the King's son, Thomas Burton,
Conand Aske, William Lodyngton, Thomas Mitford, and John Louthe, the
grantor's brother, of all lands and tenements, rents, services, &c. in the vills
of Esinden, Hatfild, and Hertfordingberi, co. Herts, and in Enefild, co.
Middlesex. Feast of SS. Peter and Paul, 9 Henry IV. Fragment of seal.



Bucks.

B. 1452. Letter of attorney by John Cheyne, knight, Thomas Frowyk,
John Franke, clerk, and John Franke, gentleman, for Thomas Neel, to
deliver to John Hampden, of Kumbell, and Edward Brudenel, seisin of the
manor of Eselbourgh, which they had of the feoffment of Henry Frowyk,
alderman of London. 4 November, 25 Henry VI. Seals.



Bucks.

B. 1453. Release by William le Zouche, lord of Totteneys, to John
Toly and William Glen, clerks, of his right in the manors of Esulbergh
and Claydon, with the advowson of the church of Claydon. Thursday after
the Circumcision, 9 Henry IV.



Bucks.

B. 1454. Grant by Roger de Hamton, with the consent of . . abilia
his wife, to William de Cantelupo, of land in the vill of Eselburwe, in
in Churethefurlong, rendering yearly for the same a pair of gloves. Witnesses:—Henry de la Escheker, Alan de Maidewell, Helyas de la Dune,
and others (named). Fragment of seal.



Bucks.

B. 1455. Grant by James de Wyngute to Nicholas de Cantelupo, of
land in Eselberge lying upon 'le Stomwrthe' and called 'le Havedaker,'
rendering yearly for the same a gillyflower (unum clavum gariofoli). Witnesses:—Geoffrey Neyrnut, knight, John le Waleys, Peter de Hertwell,
and others (named). Seal.



Bucks.

B. 1456. Release by John Cheyne, esquire, to Thomas Frowyk, Henry
Frowyk, alderman of London, and William Walton, of his right in the
manor of Eselbourgh. 23 May, 10 Henry VI. Seal.



Bucks.

B. 1457. Letter of attorney by Thomas Frowyk, Henry Frowyk,
alderman of London, and William Walton, for John Watkyns to receive
seisin of the manor of Eselbourgh. 11 July, 10 Henry VI.



Bucks.

B. 1458. Letter of attorney by Thomas Brouns, clerk, Roger Heron,
clerk, Robert Chatheley, John Barton the younger, and Thomas Compworth for William Fowler and Nicholas Barewyk to deliver to John
Cotesmour, John Barton, the elder, John Langestone, Andrew Sperling,
John Dayrell, William Stokes and John Cheyne, seisin of the manor of
Eselberugh. 16 May, 8 Henry VI. Seals.

[Page 355]


[ ]

B. 1459. Grant by Martin Brito to Philip de Cantebrige, upon his
marriage with the grantor's daughter, of lands in the fields of Eidon, viz.,
abutting upon Instamthules, Achebanlondessiche, Greater Brech, Greater
Witenhul, at Traffordebrige Thurne, upon Hardelondes, Hangginde,
Hundeberdeshame, Hollewellemor, and Ruwelleforlong. Witnesses:—G. de
Trafford, William de Sancto Leodogaro, and others (named).



[Middx.]

B. 1460. Release by John le Burser of Edelmeton, to his brother
Richard, of his right in land in Edelmeton [Edmonton]. Sunday before
the Annunciation, 2 Edward II. Seal.



Somers.

B. 1461. Grant by Gilbert de Edyngtone to Hugh Prouerbets and
Henry Geffrey, of a messuage and land in Edyngtone, and also of rents and
services issuing out of other lands there. Saturday after St. Luke,
16 Edward III.



[Sussex.]

B. 1462. Release by Isabella, relict of William atte Puth, to William
Stokman, of Avesforde, of her right as dower in a curtilage in the vill of
Estergate. Thursday after the Conversion of St. Paul, 15 Edward II.
Fragment of seal.



[Somers.]

B. 1463. Indenture determining a dispute between John de Grodelee,
dean of St. Andrew's Wells, and Gilbert de Edyngtone, relative to their
rights of pasturage in the moors of Edyngtone and Thurlemere. Saturday
after St. Peter ad vincula, 5 Edward III.



[ ]

B. 1464. Grant by Andrew son of Henry to his brother Henry, of
land next the wood of Ses, bordering on the road running from Estleg'
towards Eton and stretching from that road to 'le Rudisiche.' Witnesses:
—Hugh de Lilleburne, William de Banvelle, Alan de Bollishoure, and others
(named). Seal.



[Wilts.]

B. 1465. Grant by Edward Eliot and Ralph Hampstede, chaplains,
to Alice atte Hethes, wife of John atte Hethe, of the lands which they had
of the feoffment of John atte Hethes, in the vills and fields of Esteverle,
Middeleverle and Colyugeborne Abbots. Witnesses:—Thomas Hungerford
the bailiff and Thomas Burforde the mayor of Sarum, and others (named).
Feast of St. Martin the bishop, 17 Richard II.



[Oxford.]

B. 1466. Grant by Simon Barri, of Estlech', to the monks of Bruerne,
of lands in the territory of Estlech', lying in Dethereweye, Kenigforlong,
upon 'la Chevesse' and in the 'Syche.' Witnesses:—Ralph de Leth,
John le Masun, and others (named). Seal.



[Sussex.]

B. 1467. Grant by Elias de Chenny to William Stokeman, of Avesforde, of a house with a curtilage in the vill of Estergate. Sunday after
St. Vincent, 15 Edward II. Seal.



[Oxford.]

B. 1468. Confirmation by Henry Beaufiz to the monks of Bruerne,
to hold in frank almoin, of the land in the territory of Estlech granted by
Martin de Berdeford to that abbey. Witnesses:—Ralph de Lecth, William
Ascelyne, John de Fifhid, and others (named). Fragment of seal.



[Sussex.]

B. 1469. Release by William the Smith (faber) of Estergate, and
Joan his wife, to William Serle, of that place, of a messuage with buildings
and a curtilage in Eastergate, which they held for term of the life of the
said Joan from Elyas de Chenney. Thursday after St. Lucy the Virgin,
11 Edward II.

[Page 356]


[Oxford.]

B. 1470. Settlement of a dispute between Simon son of William
Barri, of Estlech, and the abbot and convent of Bruerne, by which he
released to them his right in and claim to an enclosure in the vill of Estlech.
Witnesses:—Henry le Draper, John le Mazun, Richard de Cotes, and
others (named). Seals broken.



[Hants.]

B. 1471. Release by William Smalhach, son and heir of William
Smallhach, the son of Alice la Lytle of Eblintone, to the prior and convent
of St. Denys, Southampton, of his right in a tenement and land in the
vill of Eblintone [Ablington]. Witnesses:—John de Grimstede, Sir John
vicar of Wodeford, Sir Henry vicar of Fisereldene, and others (named).



[Bucks.]

B. 1472. Grant by John Crachal, archdeacon of Bedford, rector of
the church of Edlesburgh, to William Russell, knight, and Hawisia his
wife, of the chantry in their Oratory in their Court of Northhale, constructed within the parish of the said church; they granting in frank
almoin a meadow in Schepemede to the church of Edlesburgh. On
paper.



[Middx.]

B. 1473. Grant by Robert son of Richard le Burcer of Edelmetone,
to his mother Christina, relict of the said Richard, of a messuage in
Edelmetone and land in Totenham, to hold for the term of her life, she
rendering yearly for the same one grain of pepper at the feast of the
Nativity. Friday after the Translation of St. Thomas the Martyr,
22 Edward III. Seal.



[Middx.]

B. 1474. Counterpart of B. 1473. Seal broken.



[Middx.]

B. 1475. Grant by Richard Neweman, of Edelmetone, to John le
Rede, of Haringeie, of land in the vill of Edelmetone abutting upon the
road from Bettestyle to Heybourne, and upon land called 'Semannes Land.'
Whit Sunday, 1 Edward III.



[Middx.]

B. 1476. Grant by Agnes, late the wife of Reginald Dod of Edelmetone, to Richard le Burcer, of the same place, of land in the vill of Edelmetone in 'le Helle,' abutting upon 'le Schepenhawe.' Sunday after the
Invention of the Holy Cross, 4 Edward III. Seal broken.



[Middx.]

B. 1477. Grant by Alice, late the wife of John le King of Edelmetone, to Thomas Bonde, of London, of a messuage, curtilage, and land in
Edelmetone abutting on the wood of the priory of the Holy Trinity,
London. Monday, the feast of St. Matthew the Apostle, 11 Edward III.
Seal.



[Middx.]

B. 1478. Grant by Robert Burcer, of Edelmetone, to Thomas
Wykewane and Margaret his wife, of a tenement, grange, garden, and
croft in the vill of Edelmetone, lying between the road from Duketus to
Suthgate. Monday in Whitsun week, 44 Edward III. Seal broken.



[Bucks.]

B. 1479. Acknowledgment by Robert son of Walter de Edolvesbur'
(Eldesborough), that he holds at the will of the rector of the church of
Edolvesbur' a messuage and land in there. Witnesses:—M. archdeacon
of Buckingham, R. parson of Mosswrhe (Marsworth), T. parson of
Dreiton (Drayton), R. parson of Sullesbirii (Soulbury), R. vicar of Wenge
(Wing), and others (named). Seal.



[Middx.]

B. 1480. Grant by John Burcer, of Edelmetone, to Henry Askeby,
of Totenham, of a tenement, grange, garden, and croft in the vill of
Edelmetone, lying between the highway from Dukettes to Southgate; the
said Henry Askeby covenanting that upon payment made to him by or on
behalf of the said John the deed to be of no effect. 21 April, 45 Edward III.
Seal.

[Page 357]


[Middx.]

B. 1481. Grant by Thomas Wykewane, of Edelmetone, and Margaret
his wife to John Burcer, son of Richard Burcer, of the same place, of the
tenement, grange, garden, and croft in Edelmetone, lying between the
road from Dukettes to Southgate. Sunday, 13 April, 45 Edward III.
Seal.



[Middx.]

B. 1482. Grant by Robert son of Richard Burcer, of Edelmetone, to
John de Cauntebrugg', of London, and to John de Burton, rector of the
church of Warfeld (Worfield), in the diocese of Salisbury, of lands,
tenements, &c, in the vill of Edelmetone. Sunday after St. Martin the
Bishop 46 Edward III. Seal.



[Kent.]

B. 1483. Grant by Matthew son of Matthew ate Gore of Hegham,
to Richard de Dunleghe, and William his son, of two acres of land in
Osseland field in the parish of Hegham, abutting on the road from
Hegham to Roffa (Rochester). June, 35 Edward I. Seal.

Endorsed: Charter of Matthew son of Matthew de Lagure of
Hosseland.



[Kent.]

B. 1484. Grant by Matthew son of Matthew ate Gore of Hegham, to
Richard de Dungleghe and William his son, of all his lands in Haldesshe
field in the parish of Hegham, which had descended to him upon the death
of his wife. June, 35 Edward I.

Endorsed: Charter of Matthew de Lagare of land in Haldasse. Seal
broken.



[Camb.]

B. 1485. Grant in frank almoin by Peter son of John de Ellesworth,
to Ralph, abbot of Ramsey, of a rent of one pound of cumin and one penny
which he had been accustomed to receive from Warm son of Geoffrey the
Chamberlain for lands in Elleswurth. Witnesses:—Reginald le Moyne,
William Houyn, Richard de Ripton, knights, Simon de Houcton, and others
(named). Seal.



[ ]

B. 1486. Release by William Densy, son and heir of John Densy of
Chaucumbe, to the prior and convent of Chaucumbe, of his right in the
lands in Edeneswelle, which he had of the feoffment of John de Segrave,
and also land in Edeneswelle. Thursday, the feast of St. Andrews the
Apostle, 3 Edward III.



Middx.

B. 1487. Grant by Alice daughter of Henry Wykwane, of Edelmetone
(Edmonton), to John de Cauntebrugge', of London, and John de Burton,
rector of the church of Warfeld (Worfield) in the diocese of Salisbury, of
land in the parish of Edelmetone, abutting upon Armholtlane, land called
'le Thornes,' and upon Genyldeshegg'. Thursday after the Conception,
46 Edward III. Seal.



[Wilts.]

B. 1488. Release by Laurence le Botyler, of Monkton Farley (Farlegh'
Monachorum) to John de Puteo, of the same place, of his right in a yearly
rent and the reversion of a tenement and lands in Ekewyk, and in a
curtilage and croft called 'Chacecroft' and other lands in the vill and fields
of Monkton Farley, of which the said Laurence had enfeoffed the said
John upon the marrriage of his daughter Joan with him. Friday after
SS. Peter and Paul, 48 Edward III.



[Suff.]

B. 1489. Grant by Laurence de Sancto Michaele to Peter de Cheyham,
clerk, of land in Eldelonde, rendering yearly for the same one grain of
wheat (unum granum frumenti). Witnesses:—William de Nyudegate,
Robert de Cheyham, John de Codintone, and others (named)

Endorsed: Cheyham (Cheam). Seal.

[Page 358]


[Derby.]

B. 1490. Release by Jocosa, late the wife of Roger del Shawe of
Elkeston, and by Thomas de Shawe their son, to Thomas, prior of Trentham,
and the convent of that place, of their right in lands in the vill of
Elkeston (Ilkeston), late the property of Matilda Basset. 1 July,
5 Henry VI. Seals.



[Warw.]

B. 1491. Demise by Thomas, abbot of Bordusleye, and the convent of
that place, to John le Chauntour. of Olnehale, son of Adam le Chauntour,
and to Ydonya his wife, of lands and tenements in the vill of Olnehale.
Saturday, the feast of St. Leonard, 20 Edward III.



[Warw.]

B. 1492. Grant by John, abbot of Bordesleye, and the convent of that
place, to Henry Traci, of Olenhale, of a cottage, curtilage and croft in
Olenhale, abutting on the highway called "Revenestret." Witnesses:—
John de Creule, Henry de Olenhale, Nicholas de Asseles, and others (named).

Endorsed:—Halunton, Olenhale.



[Essex.]

B. 1493. Demise in fee farm by William de Haute to William Harun,
of Dene, of land called "Goresfeld" and other land in the parish of
Elmestede (Elmstead), rendering yearly for the same twelve shillings
sterling, payable at the grantor's house at Wadenhaie. 13 Edward I.



Bucks.

B. 1494. Demise by Henry Colet, knight, alderman of London, Robert
Brudenell, Thomas Bradbury, and William Gery to Richard Pole, knight,
and Ralph Asshton, of the manor of Ellesburgh (Ellesborough). 16 April,
8 Henry VII.



[Camb.]

B. 1495. Demise by Thomas Burgoyne, of Jmpyngton, Thomas atte
Wode, and John Fynge, clerk, to Thomas Hardyng and John Herryes,
both of Ellysworth (Elsworth), of a tenement and land in Ellysworth.
25 February, 33 Henry VI. Seals.



[Warw.]

B. 1496. Demise by Edward Grey, knight, lord of Lysley, to Thomas
Haye, prior of St. Mary's, Erdebury, and the convent of that place, of a
croft called "Huettes Close" in Erdebury abutting upon Pooles Grene.
1 January, 20 Edward IV. Seal.



[Leic.]

B. 1497. Decision against the claim of John Curson, esquire, against
Sir Richard Sewestern, prior of Kyrkeby Beller, for payment, upon the
decease of his predecessor, of a relief or fine for land in Erdburgh
(Erdburrow). 20 September, 6 Henry VIII. Seals.



Warw.

B. 1498. Grant by William Cokkes, prior of the monastery or priory
of the Blessed Mary of Erdbury, to William Elys, of Coventry, draper,
and Agnes his wife, or their assigns, of a corrody or yearly pension for the
term of their lives and the life of the survivor, viz., "a mancon wt a hall
of stage, the howsys and chambers pertenyng to the same wt the entre in
to the rode lofte sufficiently reparyd wt the costys and charges of the said
prior and covent and so continually to be mayntenyd and kepyd duryng
the terme aforsaid. Also viij. loves of the convent brede and iiij. loves
of the secunde brede wekely, every love weyng too pondes. Also viii.
galons of the beste ale and too galons of the secunde ale. Also in Kechyn
at every meyle of every dyett als moche as too chanons have. And yf
the said William and Agnes have any manner of mete, ffysshe, or flesche
besyd, hyt to be dyzte in the prior's kechyn at the prior's coste. Also
barbor and launder. Also vi. lodys of herdwod sufficiently brok[n] and
dressyd accordyng to there chymnes. Also c. fagotes wt a howse to
kepe there wod dry yn wt a gardyn pleke. Also xx. li. of talow candull
yerly, wt halfe a stryke of salte. Also gras for too kyne wynter and
somer. The said William and Agnes to have the calves of them and
[Page 359]
thei to be weynyd at the age of x. wekes and then to be kepyd tyll they
ben a yere old. And the prior and convent to have the mylke of the
said kyne so that the said William and Agnes may have melke sufficiently
suche tyme as thei dysire hyt. Also the kepyng of too horses on in
severell gras in the somer and the todor in the commyn and in wynter on
at herd mete and the todor in severell wod or pastor. Also yerely vj.
cheses pice iid. apece." For which corrody the said William and
Agnes were to pay to the said prior and convent, one hundred marks
of lawful money of England and in a certain pittantiary (in quadam
petansaria) vi. li. If the corrody should be unpaid in whole, or in part,
during the said term, the said William and Agnes, or their assigns, were to
have power to distrain upon all lands and tenements of the said prior and
convent until they were fully satisfied for the same and for all arrears.

Further "the said William and Agnes graunten and promyse that thei
schall nodor sett nor sell the said corody to no nodor persone ne persons.
And yf thei doo thei to forfett the said corody thes indenture notwithstandyng."

Dated at the Chapter House, Erdbury, 22 June, 1485. Seal. In Latin
and English.



Camb.

B. 1499. Covenant between Ranulph, abbot of Ramsey, and Simon
de Sancto Licyo, relative to land in Elleswurth (Elsworth), which
the said Simon had demised to William de la Karnayle for the term
of his life, viz., the said William to hold the same from the abbot paying to
him the yearly rent that he had been accustomed to pay to the said Simon.
Witnesses:—Sir Philip de Stanton then sheriff, William de Bokesworth',
John de Beche, Nicholas de Bassingburn' and William de Cheney, knights.,
and others (named). The Ascension, 30 Henry III.

Endorsed: In Comitatu Cantebr'. Fragment of seal.



Berks.

B. 1500. Grant by John Balet, of Estenebourne, to John ate Alre
of Haselewik', in the parish of Ingkepenne [Inkpen], of a yearly rent
issuing out of lands and tenements in the villa of Estenebourne and
Westenebourn. Monday after St. Peter ad vincula, 18 Edward III. Seal.






      

  


  

  
    
      PreviousTable of contentsNext
  


      
      

    

  

  
      
      
        
              
  
    
      
            


      
  

    
                      
    Footer menu
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Help
              
          
        About the project
              
          
        Terms of use
              
          
        Privacy and Cookies
              
          
        Accessibility
              
        
  


  


  
    
      
            Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London


      
  


        
      
    
  

  










