


  








    Deeds: A.7101 - A.7200 | British History Online
    


      




    
    
    
    
    



  Skip to main content



  
    





  
    
          
  
    
  
      
      BHO | British History Online
    
      
  


    
                      
    Main navigation
    
  
  
        

  
    
      
    
    
                    
              
                  Browse Catalogue
                      
          
                  Subject guides
                      
          
                  Using BHO
                      
          
                  About
                      
          
                  Subscribe
                      
          
                  News
                      
        
  
    
  


  


    
                      
    Login
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Login
              
          
        Register
              
        
  


  



    
  

  
  

  

  

  

  

    

      
      
      
            
  
    
        ';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
    Breadcrumb
    
          
                  Home
              
          
                  A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds
              
        
  

  


  
    
      
  Deeds: A.7101 - A.7200



  

  
    
      

  
    A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4. 

    
    Originally published by His Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1902.

    
  



    This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 
    



  
    
      Citation:
        
          BHO
          Chicago
          MLA		
        
    
    
      
'Deeds: A.7101 - A.7200', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4, ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1902), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol4/pp121-133 [accessed 3 July 2026].
    


    
      
'Deeds: A.7101 - A.7200', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4. Edited by   H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1902), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
 https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol4/pp121-133.
    


    
      
"Deeds: A.7101 - A.7200". A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4. Ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London, 1902), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol4/pp121-133.
    


  
  
    
  

  
    

  

            
        Keyword Highlight
        
        Search
        
      
     
    
            
  



A.7101 - A.7200





[N'hamp.]

A. 7101. Grant by Richard Warner of Trop, to Benedicta daughter
of Benedict de Weleton, of 2½a. of land in Weleton, viz. part on Churkehul,
part on Fouluswellehul, and part extending beyond the way of Souford &c.
Witnesses:—Nicholas de Tywe, William Ketilbern, and others (named).
Seal.



[Linc.]

A. 7102. Grant by John de Haryngton, knight, to Roger de Cobeldyk,
knight, in tail, of a water-mill in Hagwordyngham called 'Stobbewathe-
milne,' with the ponds, ditches, and watercourses, belonging, together with
the suit of all John's bondmen in Haryngton and Aswardeby, to grind
their corn at the said mill; also a croft called 'Kneppecroft,' and land
adjoining the mill &c.; the corn for the use of the said John and his free
household (libere familie sue), whenever he is staying at Haryngton, and
also for servant having the charge of the manor of Haryngton, is to be
ground at the said mill free of multure; also further grant, in tail, of two
plots of meadow in Aswardeby, one at Snyfen called 'Snyfendaill,' and the
other called 'Staynmilnedam.' Friday before the apostles Simon and
Jude, 13 Edward II.

Endorsed: 'Stopwaght Mylne.'



[N'hamp.]

A. 7103. Grant by Geoffrey son of Hugh le Chapman of Jelvertoft,
to Richard Ballard of Cliftone in Jelvertoft, and Juliana his wife, in tail,
[Page 122]
of ½a. 1½ roods of land in Jelvertoft, part lying on 'le Longemalewe,' part
on Anlowe, and part on 'le Waltfurlong,' at 'le Bricslowe.' Witnesses:—
Thomas de la Hoese of Jelvertoft, and others (named).



[N'hamp.]

A. 7104. Grant by Matilda Pite, to Richard de Solevile, of 2½ roods
of land in Wotton, part at Puttishil, part on Hu[n]kerhil, and part
between two 'Wydekeris.' Witnesses:—Sir Bartholomew de Somerton,
Walter de Horton, parson of Wotton, William his son of the same, Gilbert
Mannori of Colentre, and others (named).



[N'hamp.]

A. 7105. Demise by Hubert le Bacheler, and William his brother, to
Geoffrey de Cramford, of 3 roods of land in Ashby (Assebia), in Estfeld
and 3 roods in Westfeld. Witnesses:—Thomas de Estleg', steward of the
earl of Leicester, William de Senevilla, and others (named).



[Essex.]

A. 7106. Grant by Geoffrey le Warenn [er], to Sir Philip Basseth, of
10a. of heath land in Mistele. Witnesses:—Sir Hubert de Rullye, Sir
Richard Filloyl, Sir Thomas de Welles, and others (named).

Endorsed:—'Wikes.'



[Hunt.]

A. 7107. Grant by Robert son of Isabella de Cunington, to Reginald
Cayston of Aylington, of 2a. of land in Aylington, part lying on the tillage
called 'Beneyeston' by 'le Longewong,' part on Saldinescrosfurlong,
abutting on the highway to Jakele and on Benelondhevedine, part on Herd-
wykbenelond, and part by 'le Gyldinegore.' Sunday after the Exaltation of
the Holy Cross, 25 Edward I.



Herts. Leic.

A. 7108. Agreement between Sir Hugh le Despenser, knight, and
Thomas de Jarpenvile; viz. the said Thomas shall enfeoff Sir Hugh of
his manor of Bysseye co. Herts. and Sir Hugh shall enfeoff Thomas of
his manor of Southcrokestone, co. Leicester, [in exchange] for a moiety
of the said manor of Bysseye; if the manor of Suthcrokestone be found
worth more than the moiety of the manor of Bysseye, Thomas is to render
the surplusage yearly to Sir Hugh, but if it be of less value Sir Hugh is to
assign Thomas a certain rent to the full value of the said moiety.
London, Tuesday after St. James the Apostle, 25 Edward [I].




A. 7109. Release by William le Pareker, to William le Munchensi,
of all his right in Roger Qic, formerly his bondman, and in his chattels
and suit (secta). Witnesses:—Robert Lecu, Hugh Scrisping, and others
(named).



[N'hamp.]

A. 7110. Release by John Colas of Westhaddon, to John Freman of
Sevelesworth, of all his right in a cottage with land in Sevelesworth.
Feast of St. Agatha the virgin, 11 Henry VI. Portion of seal.



[Suff.]

A. 7111. Grant by Robert son of Roger Martely of Sproutun, to
Nicholas Bonde of Frestone, and Thomas de Rougham, in fee, of land in
Sproutun. Thursday the feast of St. Barnabas, 6 Edward III.



[Wilts.]

A. 7112. Grant by John de Gardino, to Adam de Argoges, of pasture
for two oxen in the pasture of Westrewe. Witnesses:—Philip le Bret,
Roger de Camera, and others (named).




A. 7113. Release by Ellen Kerkeby, widow, to William Staunford, of
all her right in land on the furlong called 'Heggefurlong,' abutting on the
road to Wrennepark. Clyfton, 16 October, 6 Edward IV.

[Page 123]


[Herts.]

A. 7114. Release by Margery late the wife of Geoffrey de Lankeford,
widow, to Sir Eustace, the prior, and the convent, of the Holy Trinity,
London, of all her right in certain lands, &c. which the said prior claims
to possess of the grant of her said late husband. Witnesses:—Richard de
Gatesberi, Richard de la Rokele, and others (named).



[Herts.]

A. 7115. Grant by Thomas de Bordesden son of John, to the canons
of the Holy Trinity, London, in frank almoin, of 2a. of land in Bordesden,
part extending upon the head of the upper Brade (super capud superioris
Brade) and part extending on Kingesacres. Witnesses:—Moyse the clerk,
Helias de Croiland, and others (named).



[Hunt.]

A. 7116. Grant by Christian de Chartres, to Peter de Chartres, her
son, for life, for his better support, of all her lands and tenements in
Wodehirst, except the rent and services of John de Nottynge and Margery
his wife, with the reversion of their tenements. Wolle, Monday the
morrow of the close of Easter, 21 Edward III. French.



[York, W.R.]

A. 7117. Release by Jordan son of Serlo de Milefeld, to William, earl
of Warenne, of all his right in land in Solande and in the moiety of a mill
there. Witnesses:—Ralph de Normanvill, Nicholas de Kenet, William de
Billeham, and others (named).



[Berks.]

A. 7118. Acknowledgement by Ralph de la Stane, that he is bound
to Sir William de Valencia, lord of Pembroke, to endeavour to obtain for
him from Robert de Hauterive, a release of all service, other than a rent of
7s. 6d. a year, in respect of a tenement in Fernham; failing which he and
his heirs shall acquit Sir William of all such service other than the said
rent. Witnesses:—Sirs Geoffrey Gupill, Jordan de Sakevile, and Stephen
de Eddewurth, knights, Geoffrey de Burton, and Roger de Ingepenne.



[N'hamp.]

A. 7119. Grant by Robert Fareman of Atteneston, to Henry son of
Robert Attehul of the same, of one rood of land in Atteneston at Chirche-
brugge, extending to Essebybrock. Witnesses:—William Deynte of
Atteneston, and others (named). Portion of seal.



[Linc.]

A. 7120. Confirmation by Mabel de Gaunt of Norwym, widow, for
her own life, to Sir Roger, parson of Norwym, of a grant made to him by
Gilbert de Gaunt, her late husband, of part of her wood. Witnesses:—
John de Dyve, Hugh de Durem, Richard de Waldeseph, and others (named).



[York.]

A. 7121. Release by Alice, relict of Richard son of Simon de
Ravinfeud, widow, to Sir John, earl of Warenne, of all her right which she
had in all the land of Flandirwath with tofts and buildings &c. after the
death of her said late husband. Witnesses:—Richard de Gaham, William
de Mickilbrig, clerk, and others (named).



I. of Wight &c.

A. 7122. Memorandum of an agreement between the king and
Isabella, countess of Albemarle; viz. the said countess is to give the King
all her land of inheritance, as well the Isle of Wight, as all her other lands,
rents, and tenements, with the advowsons of churches and religious houses,
knights' fees, &c. except the manors of Sevehampton, Whitlechirche,
Harewode, and Craft; which lands &c. are to be extended by four suitable
men, two to be chosen by each of the said parties, who are also to extend
certain of the King's lands and tenements equal in value to the said lands
&c. of the said countess &c. after which the said countess is to enfeoff the
King of all her said lands &c. except the said manors; and all the lands
&c. which may from this time come to the said countess, as well those
[Page 124]
which Thomas de Breaute holds as others, are to remain to the King in fee,
who is to enfeoff the said countess for her life of his lands and tenements
extended as above, and is to give her 20,000 marks for the grant of the
said lands, to be paid in the manner specified &c. Winchester, the morrow
of St. Hilary, 4 E [dward I]. Copy or draft. See A. 6273.




A. 7123. Demise by John le Bascle, to Walter de London, of a
messuage with a house built upon it &c. in Hortune, rendering 6d. yearly
to Sir John Bysop, and a rose at Midsummer to the grantor. Witnesses:—
Robert Tundut, Alexander Prichet, and others (named).



[York, W.R.]

A. 7124. Grant by Gilbert Basset, to Warin Basset, his brother, in
tail, of all the land in Lede which Thomas Basset, his brother,
held of the constable of Chester, viz. two parts of the same town; if the
grantee die without lawful heirs by his wife, the said land is to revert to
the grantor. Witnesses:—Sir Alan Basset, Fulk Basset, the provost of
Beverley, William de Monte Acuto, and others (named).



[Glouc.]

A. 7125. Letters patent by Theobald de Verdun, constable of Ireland,
granting to Sir Hugh le Despenser all the goods and chattels found in
the manor of Bysele, on the day on which the said Theobald delivered the
said manor to Sir Hugh. Westminster, 27 March, 7 Edward [I].
Fragment of seal.



Surrey.

A. 7126. Demise by Thomas Elyot and William Thwaytes, to
Nicholas Carewe, esquire, Margaret his wife, Henry, duke of Exeter,
Richard Beauchamp, bishop of Salisbury, and others, named, and to the heirs
of the said Carewe, of the manor of Carsalton, which the grantors lately had
of the gift of the said Carewe. 8 November, 29 Henry VI. Fragment of seal.

Endorsed:—Memorandum of delivery of possession on Thursday before
St. Edmund, king and martyr, A.D. 1450, with names of witnesses.



[Middx.]

A. 7127. Grant by William de Porta of Harwes, to Edmund
son of Richard the smith of Norhall, of 2a. of land in the hamlet of
Suzberi, at 'La Newerente,' extending from the field of Greneforde to the
wood of 'La Suzberi.' Thursday after St. John ante Portam Latinam,
27 Edward I.



[N'hamp.]

A. 7128. Grant by Richard Vincent of Welton, to Henry son of
Hugh de Bouetun, of ½a. of land in Welton on Stretfurlong. Witnesses:—
Simon de Twe of Welton, Robert de Duston of the same, and others
(named).



[Wilts, now Berks.]

A. 7129. Grant by Richard Hod, to Robert his son, of ½a. of land lying
between the road from Riselee to the bridge of Salufeld, and Laggelee;
rendering 3d. yearly to the lord of Seprigge. Witnesses:—Nicholas de
Dideham, William de Stanford, William de la Wifaude, and others (named).



[Linc.]

A. 7130. Release by William son of Ralph the shepherd (pastoris)
of Croxby, to Andrew son of Alan de Croxby, of all his right in land in
Litteldale. Witnesses:—Master Ralph, rector of the church of Croxby,
Thomas de Gresby, and others (named).



Berks.

A. 7131. Grant by John Stokes, esquire, to Margaret late the wife of
John Catesby, esquire, Robert Catesby, William Pakynton, and William
Overton, of 5 marks yearly rent from his manor of Myggeham. Asshby
Leger, 8 December, 16 Henry VI. Seal.

[Page 125]


Berks. [N'hamp.]

A. 7132. Defeasance of above grant, witnessing that if the above-
mentioned grantees may hold and peacefully enjoy the manor called
'Stokes Maner' in Asshbyleger, and all the lands and tenements there
called 'Stokeslandes,' then the above grant is to be void. 8 December,
16 Henry VI. Seal.



[Wilts.]

A. 7133. Grant by Richard de la Wyz, to Bartholomew the miller,
for twenty-six years, of certain meadow land abutting on Richard's garden.
Witnesses:—Roger de Bromham, William de Gores, Robert Halfknight
(Dimidio Milite), and others (named). Easter, 43 Henry III. Injured.

Endorsed:—' La Wiz.'



[Warw.]

A. 7134. Grant by Robert atte Brugge, Henry le Walkar, and
William le Glasiar, chaplains, of Alyncestre, to Joan de Raggleye, of the
same, late the wife of William de Raggeleye, of the same, for her life, of
all the lands and tenements &c. which they had of the feoffment of her said
late husband in Alyncestre, Overesleye, Kynwarton, Upton, and within the
manor of Tardebygge; with reversion in fee to John, son of the said
William de Raggeleye and Joan. Saturday in Whitsun week, 39
Edward III.



[Hunt.]

A. 7135. Grant by John le Fraunceys of Aylingtone, to Sir William
the abbot, and the convent, of Rameseye, in frank almoin, of ½d. yearly
rent of assize from Henry Godsweyn, and one acre of land in Aylingtone,
half lying on Noldich, and half at Vuerehammare. Witnesses:—Sir
Robert de Hale, clerk, William de Lollingtone, and others (named).



[Sussex.]

A. 7136. Confirmation by Richard son of Andrew, to the monks of
St. Pancras, in frank almoin, of the gift of his ancestors to them, viz. a
hide of the land of Thorne, of his fee. Witnesses:—Richard de Essete,
Robert de Liclinton, Giffard de Hekinton, William de Horstede and his
son, Warner de Lewes, Robert de Lund' and Reginald his son.

Endorsed: 'De rap de Pevenese.'

'Ricardi filii Andree de Alwrichest' &c.



[Oxford.]

A. 7137. Demise by Stephen son of William de Hampton, to Sir
Fulk, bishop of London, for eight years, of 10a. in the meadow on the
Charewell, between Hampton and Goseford bridge, discharged of tithes;
with covenant by the lessor to protect the said 10a. till mowing time, and
then to mow, make, and collect (falcare levare et adunare) the hay, to be
carried by the lessee. Witnesses:—Sirs John de Elsefeld and Roger de
Aumary, knights, and others (named). Portion of seal.

Endorsed: 'Cyrographum de p [ra] to empto juxta Kertlintun.'



[York, W.R.]

A. 7138. Grant by John le Fraunsceys son of Richard de Herdeslawe,
to Sir John, earl of Warenne, of a half bovate of land in Herdeslawe,
containing a moiety of that bovate of land which is called 'Westeroxgang,'
in the fee of Henry son of Alexander. Witnesses:—Sirs William de
Lond', steward of the earl, Ralph de Horbir [y], Richard de Thorinh', and
John de Sothill, Michael de Breretuisil, Reginald Flandrensis, and Hugh
de Rastryc.



[N'hamp.]

A. 7139. Grant by Roger son of Adam le Keu of Esscheby St.
Legers, to Richard ad Pontem of Weltone, and Matilda his wife, of ½d.
yearly rent from a half acre arable in the South field of Esscheby at 'le
Chalcputtes.' Friday after the close of Easter, 15 Edward II.

[Page 126]


[Warw.]

A. 7140. Grant by John Wodelawe and John Ivy, to Simon Felton
of Henley in Arderne, and Agnes his wife, of land &c. in Henley, Wotton,
Ulnehale, and Wetley by Henley, which they had of the feoffment of
Thomas Pulton and William Deyster, of Henley. Monday before the
Nativity of the Virgin Mary, 6 Henry V. Two seals.



[Herts.]

A. 7141. Grant by William de Walcr [a] (Walkern), to Ralph Thiede,
of all the land in Bordesden which he held of the prior and convent of
the Holy Trinity, London. Witnesses:—William de Mora, Simon de
Melkley, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 7142. Confirmation by John de Burgh, to Sir Philip Basset, of
the manor of Beston with the capital messuage, the advowson of the
church excepted, which manor the said Philip had of the grant of Sir
Hubert de Burgh, late earl of Kent, his father, [in exchange] for the manor
of Croxston. Witnesses:—Walter Byset, John de Curtenay, Robert de
Mucegros, Philip de Arecy, Robert de Tweinge, and others (named).
Portion of seal, defaced. Duplicate of A. 5284.



[Hunt.]

A. 7143. Grant by John Blacchalf of Aylingtone, to Reginald
Cayston of the same, of one acre and half a rood of land in Aylingtone,
one rood on the tillage called 'Le thorn,' and abutting, at one head, on
Neutoneweyefurlong; one rood on 'Le pit Rodes'; one rood on 'Le
Snoneslond'; and one rood and a half on Benelondhevedinefurlong.
Thursday after St. Leonard, 25 Edward I.



[Leic.]

A. 7144. Indenture being an agreement made between Sir John le
Despencer (dispensarium) of the one part, and Simon de Creppinge, steward
of Sir Roger de Clifford of the other, before Sir Guy la Thouche, Sir Peter
de Nevile, and others, at Beumaner viz. that the said Sir John shall give
the said Sir Roger 50l. for the fine made between them for the said manor,
by the hands of the said Simon, at such terms as the said Sir Roger shall
after conference with him direct; all stock on the said manor &c. being
reserved to the said Sir Roger until the money is fully paid. Thursday
after the Circumcision. [Edward I.]



[Warw.]

A. 7145. Grant by Simon Bertulmeu of Hattone, to Simon son of
Hugh de la Grene of the same, and Alice, his wife, the grantor's sister, of
a half acre of land in Hattone, lying on the tillage called 'Longerugge,'
and extending from the road called 'le Fildenewey' to 'le Nunnestaken.'
Witnesses:—John Syflede of Hatton, William de Alveston of the same,
and others (named).



[N'hamp.]

A. 7146. Indenture of demise by Richard de Stratford, burgess of
Northampton, and Alice his wife, to John de Felmeresham, baker, and
Alice his wife, for their lives in survivorship, of two messuages, one with
an oven in Abyndonestrete, Northampton, at 6s. rent and by baking con-
stantly at the said oven; the lease to be void in default of their suit (de
communi secta) to the said oven; the said Alice being duly examined in the
full pleas of the Husting Court of Northampton. Saturday after St.
Botulph, 5 Edward III. Two seals.



[Warw.]

A. 7147. Demise by Sir William Catesby, knight, to Robert Wod of
Coventre, 'wryter,' for fifty years, of a tenement in Coventre, in the street
called 'Catesbylane.' Michaelmas, 14 Edward IV. Seal.



[Wilts.]

A. 7148. Grant by Robert Salman, to Sir Elias Erlestoke, vicar of
the church of Calne, John Gylys, William Stokton, vicar of the church of
Cosham, John Grene, chaplain, William Lery, of Calne, John Covyntre of
Devyses, and Thomas Temse, of the manor of Wyke by Lacok, with lands
[Page 127]
&c. in Wyke, Lacok, Natton, Naisshehulle, and Beuelegh within the parish
of Lacok, or elsewhere in the hundred of Chippenham; also further grant
of the rent called 'le Warres rente,' with all lands and tenements &c. in
the parish of Boxe, or elsewhere in the said hundred, which he, together
with Thomas Calston, Thomas Murslegh, and Eobert Hatte, now deceased,
lately had of the feoffment of Nicholas Crooke. Witnesses:—Robert
Baynard, Walter Stodeleye and others (named). 12 April, 8 Henry VI.
Portion of seal.



[Kent.]

A. 7149. Grant by Nicholas son of Walter ate Curt, of the parish of
Newintone, to Robert son of John Legat, of the parish of Tonge, and Joan
his wife, of 1½a. land in Newintone, in the field called 'Witsscelde,' abutting
on the street leading from Beanhamme to 'La Hole.' Thursday before
St. Valentine the martyr, 26 Edward I.



[Wilts.]

A. 7150. Release by Denise de Martini daughter of William de
Martini, to Walkelin de Rosey, of all the land she had of the gift
of Alice de Wlferrinton late the wife of Richard Crede, and which she held
of the said Walkelin, in Gerardeston, with a manse (manso), croft &c.
Witnesses:—Sirs Godfrey de Eskedemor, Richard de Derneford, knights,
Richard de Wiggeberge, Geoffrey de Brudemere, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 7151. Release by William son of Ralph Dalicun, to the church of
St. Pancras, Lewes, and the convent of the same, of all his right in 3s. 2½d.
yearly rent, and one hen, in Walsok [en] and Westwalton, viz. part from
land lying in Herdd in Walsok [en], part from land in Neuland, in the
same town &c. and part from a messuage in Westwalton. Witnesses:—
Sirs William de Tyrington, and Hugh de Pynkeny, and others (named).

Endorsed: 'Elyens' dioc'. Merslonde.'



[Kent.]

A. 7152. Release by John de Wibbing, and Adam his brother, to Sir
William de Ley burn, of all their right in a rent of 2d. and one hen, which
the said William used to render to them for land [called] 'Picosland' in
Halestowe. Witnesses:—Lucas de la Gare, and others (named).



[Bedf.]

A. 7153. Grant by Osbert son of Henry the clerk of Wybbessnade
and Alice his wife, daughter of Roger de Bartone, and Ralph de Lynleye
of Wybbessnade, and Edith his wife, sisters (sic) of the said Roger, to
Richard atte Wode of Bartone, of 3 roods of land in Bartone, adjoining
land of the abbot of Rammesheye, and abutting on the road to Sarpenho.
13 Edward [I]. Seal, and portions of two seals.



[Bucks.] [Herts.]

A. 7154. Grant by William de Horsendene, knight, to Geoffrey son
of Geoffrey de Scallariis, of all his land of Horsendene, Wydihale, Red,
Berqueye, and Boclonde, on condition of finding a chaplain to celebrate
divine service every year in the chapel of Horsendene, for the souls of
the grantor's ancestors and successors. Witnesses:—Sir John de
Scallar[iis], Ralph de Bradefeld, Roger de Scales, and others (named).



London.

A. 7155. Release by William de Fynchingfeld, citizen of London, to
William Curteis, of all his right in 5s. yearly quit rent from tenements in
the parishes of All Hallows Barckyngchyrche, and St. Olave towards the
Tower. London, . . . . . 5 Edward III. Much defaced.



[Hunt.]

A. 7156. Grant by Robert son of Reginald Morel of Niddingeworth,
to Ivo of St. Ives, clerk, of 4a. 1 rood in the meadows of St. Ives; part
lying at Stotford, part in Stonilandfurlong, part in Hunemadfurlong, of
which one half acre is called 'Silkenestyche,' and part in Thornhegfurlong;
rendering yearly one pair of gloves of the price of 1d. within the month of
Easter. Witnesses:—Master Gilbert de Wepstede, steward of Ramsey,
and others (named).

[Page 128]


[Salop.]

A. 7157. Release by Henry de Kingeshomede, to Sir Brian de
Bromtone, of all the land which Adam, his brother, bequeathed to him and
Isabella his sister, in Methene. Witnesses:—Roger de Foxcote, Richard
de Pedworthin, Sir Richard, vicar of Kinlet, and others (named). 51
Henry III.



[York, W.R.]

A. 7158. Grant by Roger son of Herbert de Milford, to William de
Milford, of all his part of a toft with a house built there, and also of
a croft, in Milford, with all his right therein. Witnesses:—Sirs Richard de
Hudlest [on], Robert de Barkest [on], and Robert de Landa, knights,
Geoffrey de Muscham, Serlo de Brettun, Richard de Schyr[burn], and
others (named).



[N'hamp.]

A. 7159. Grant by John French of Creek, son and heir of William
French late of Onley, to William Preest of Kyldesby, and Joan his wife, of
a messuage and 2 roods land in Syllesworth. Thursday after St. Denis, 38
Henry VI. Fragment of seal.



[N'hamp.]

A. 7160. Grant by Roger Ruggele of Yelvertoft, to Richard son of
John Terry, of the common of pasture belonging to the third part of a half
virgate in Yelvertoft, which he had of the feoffment of Robert Chaumber-
leyn, and which was formerly part of the frank tenement of Simon le
Prest. Saturday after St. Matthias the apostle, 11 Edward III. Fragment
of seal.



[Camb.]

A. 7161. Demise by Gervase son of Alan, to John de Ledes, for
twenty five years, of 4a. land in Wdecroft, next the land the said John
holds of William de Bosco, and 2a. of which he took of Roger de Bosco,
father of the said William, for the term of 40 years, and the other 2a. the
said Roger gave him in marriage with his daughter. Witnesses:—
Walter de Westle, Geoffrey de Brinkele, Silvester de Karletun, and others
(named).

Endorsed:—'Gerv . . . . . in Karoltun Comit' Cantebreg.'



[N'hamp.]

A. 7162. Grant by Hugh son of Alfred de Dinggele, with the assent
of his heirs, to the nuns of Sewardesleye, in perpetual alms, of 4s. yearly
rent in Brouthun, for the health of his soul and his ancestors. Wit-
nesses:—Sirs Ralph de Wedun, John de Holecot, and John de
Malesouveres, William, parson of Syuell, and others (named).



[Suff.]

A. 7163. Release by John de Merk of Leyham, to his lord, Sir Hugh
le Despenser, of a piece of pasture which he held from Sir Hugh in
Leyham, near Denscewelle. Witnesses:—Robert de Reydon, Nicholas
de Lapham, Henry de Todeham, and others (named).



[Essex.]

A. 7164. Bond by Adam Trumpur of Angre, to acquit Sir Philip
Basset and his heirs against Katharine late the wife of Hugh Slekoc of
Angre of 6s. 8d. yearly for her dower which she had demised to Sir Philip
for ten years from Michaelmas, 37 Henry III., and which Sir Philip had
sold to him till the end of the said term. Witnesses:—Sirs Roger de
Sanford and Ralph de Marcy, and others (named). Fragment of seal.



[Herts.]

A. 7165. Grant by William de Caumvile, knight, to John de
Melkeleye, of 18d. yearly rent, due from John Pake for a croft called
'Sougyuecroft,' and for land lying in Dungrave, and for part of a grange
and bakehouse. Witnesses:—Sir Robert de Melkeleye, knight, and others
(named).

[Page 129]


[Berks.]

A. 7166. Release by Margery de Shete, for her life, to Sir Adam de
Stratton, clerk, of all her right in the wardships and marriages of lands and
heirs which belonged to William Terry in Westhanneye, which she lately
claimed against the said Adam, and Ellen late the wife of the said William,
on account of the lands and tenements which the said William formerly
held from her in the said town; the releasor reserving to herself the
homage and relief of the said heirs when they happen, and also suit of her
court twice a year, together with a rent of 2d. which the said heirs are
bound to render to her for the said lands and tenements. Westminster,
Tuesday the vigil of St. Lucy the virgin, 2 Edward I.



[York, W.R.]

A. 7167. Grant by Thomas de Thorneton, to Gregory his son, and
Alice, Gregory's wife, of a burgage in Burton in Lonesdale, which he had
of the feoffment of Willliam del Lee. Monday after the Annunciation,
16 Edward III.



[N'hamp.]

A. 7168. Grant by Richard Golafer of Watforde, to Joan, relict of
John Mallore, formerly lord of Welleton, and to Rose (Roysia), daughter of
the said John, of six selions in Welleton, lying in the tillage called 'Le
White Wong.' Witnesses:—Simon Tuwe of Welleton, Robert Ace, and
others (named). Copy.



[Bucks.]

A. 7169. Bond by William son of Sir William Knight (Domini
Willelmi militis), of Stratfort, to Walter of Tinchewyk, son of Fulk Travers,
of Acle, for 20l. which Walter had lent him at the Purification, 44
Henry III, to be repaid at his pleasure under a penalty of 100s.
payable to him or the master of the work at Westminster (mayistro operis
Westmonasterii) upon every default. Witnesses:—Sir William le Brun, Sir
Richard son of Richard de Leoamsted, Walter de Forho, William the
miller of Couesgrave, John Basigan of Passham, and others (named).



[Suff.]

A. 7170. Release by Robert Holdeland of Reidune, to Denise
daughter of Ermerchardus de . . . ., of all the homage and service
of Hugh . . . . ; with certain yearly rent. Witnesses:—Sirs
Robert de Wallibus and William de Cheveruil, William de Wenham, and
others (named). Much injured.



[Kent.]

A. 7171. Grant by Thomas Chapman of the parish of Wyvelysbergh,
to Edmund, duke of Somyrset, of 5½ a. meadow in Esshetyforde, in the
meadow called 'Gouspet.' Sunday after All Saints, 30 Henry VI. Seal,
injured.



[Wilts.]

A. 7172. Grant by Isabella daughter of Everard de Argoges, to
Adam de Argoges, of a croft and ½ virgate land with whatever else she had
in Strattone, except a messuage and small curtilage. Witnesses:—
John de Gardino, Roger de Camera, and others (named).



[Suff.]

A. 7173. Release by Richard the clerk, son of John the clerk, of
Lausell, to Sir William the abbot, and the convent, of Ramseye, in frank
almoin, of his right in the tenement which belonged to his father in
Laussell. Witnesses:—William de Wolepol, William de Haningfeud,
and others (named).



[Suff.]

A. 7174. Grant by Godfrey Foc of Melleford, to Sir William de
Valencia, of 1½a. land in Melleford, lying by the mill road. Witnesses:—
Richard de Falsham, Robert de Bridebec, and others (named).

[Page 130]


[Hunt]

A. 7175. Grant by Nicholas Freman and Christian his wife, to Sir
William le Barkere, chaplain, of part of a messuage lying by the cart road
of the abbot, and 1 a. land with a hedge and ditch abutting on 'leNewefeld'
of the abbot, in Heygthmundegrave. Sunday, the morrow of the
Conception, 4 Edward III.



N'hamp. Warw.

A. 7176. (1). Grant by Thomas Murdak, knight, and Ellen his
wife, to John Goion, parson of the church of Ochocote, John Hanewell,
parson of the church of Grutteworth, and John Person, chaplain, of the
manor and advowson of Ochocote. Sunday after the Ascension, [7 ?]
Richard II.

(2). Release by John Peresson, chaplain, of Thropmundovil, to John
Goion, parson of the church of Ochocote, of all his right in the above-
mentioned premises. XV. Kal. February, 7 Richard II.

(3). Release by John Hanewelle, parson of the church of Grutteworth, to
John Goion, parson of the church of Ochocote, of all his right in the above
mentioned premises. XIV. Kal. February, 7 Richard II.

(4). Fine made at Westminster, between the said John Goion, querent,
and Thomas Murdak, knight, and Ellen his wife, deforciants, of the
said manor and advowson, to the said Thomas and Ellen and her heirs.
The Quinzaine of Easter, 7 Richard II.

(5). Fine made at York, between John Murdak, knight, and Eleanor
his wife, querents, by Thomas de Solihull, guardian of the said Eleanor,
and Nicholas Murdak, parson of the church of Ochocote, [deforciant], of
[the manor of Ochocote] and the advowson of the church of that manor,
co. Northampton, and the manor of Compton Murdak, co. Warwick,
to the said John and Eleanor and the heirs of his body, with remainder to
Thomas his brother in tail male, with remainder to John's right heirs.
Michaelmas, 17 Edward II.

(6). Extent of the manor of Hoggecote. Tuesday in Whitsunweek,
. . . . Richard II. Copies on one skin.



[Leic.]

A. 7177. Grant by Aleyn Duk of Prestewold, to Robert Hullebarou,
and Alice his wife, of a messuage and a half messuage, and land, [in
Prestewold], part lying in Gildhow, part by 'le Stygate,' and part below
'les cotes.' Witnesses:—William Jordan, Adam del Grene, and others
(named).



[N'hamp.]

A. 7178. Grant by John de Cranford of Ashby St. Legers (Esseby
Sancti Leodegarii), to Geoffrey Atoun of the same, of a place there with a
toft and croft, and houses, and 3 half acres of arable, part lying
'Intorodmor,' part on Soslond, and parts 'Intoanloweslade.' Witnesses:—
William, vicar of Essebi, and others (named).



[Herts.]

A. 7179. Grant by Thomas de Flawendene, son of Nicholas de
Flawende, to Sir William de Gippeswich, chaplain, of a pond in Flawendene,
adjoining the high road from Pittlesburne to Berkamstede. Witnesses:—
Sir John Cheyne, knight, Sir Stephen Cheindut, the younger, Thomas de
Bulestrode, Richard del Ho, William the clerk of Flawend', and others
(named).



[Hunt]

A. 7180. Grant by John de Weston, clerk, to Nicholas de Kemeston,
and Alice his wife, of 6d. yearly rent in Woldweston, which he bought of
William Hotot his brother. Witnesses:—John le Lord of Leython, and
others (named). Monday after the Purification, 10 Edward III.



[Camb.]

A. 7181. Grant by John son of William Rose, of Clopton, to John
the clerk of Kengham, of a messuage and croft which the grantor's father
[Page 131]
formerly had of the feoffment of Sir Hugh de Clopton, and land, part
adjoining land of Sir William de Bereford, part 'atecrofteshendes,' and
part 'withoutenacres,' [in Clopton]. Sunday before St. Peter in Cathedra,
30 Edward [I].



[Suff.]

A. 7182. Release by Simon le Vineter, of Sprouton, to John his
son of all his right in 2 acres of land in Sprouton formerly belonging to
Roger his uncle, adjoining lands of the prior of St. Peter's, Ipswich, and of
Sir Roger Loveday, and abutting on Hothewic. St. Leonard's day,
14 Edward [I].



[N'th'l'd.]

A. 7183. Grant by Henry de Wynton, lay brother (conversus), to Sir
William de Valence, in consideration of 140l. of the mill of Faltone with
its suit, to hold to him, his heirs and assigns from the feast of St.
Cuthbert in autumn, 41 Henry III, for thirteen years, as was contained
in the chirograph made between the said Henry and Roger Bertram of the
said mill, which chirograph, together with the King's confirmation, he had
delivered to the said Sir William, so that thereafter, neither he nor his
heirs should have any right in the said mill. Witnesses:—Sir Geoffrey
Gacelin, Sir Imbert Guy, Richard, parson of Roubyri, and others (named).
Portion of seal.



[Warw.]

A. 7184. Grant by Roger Edelyne of Henleye, to William Yve of
the same, and Marion his wife, of a messuage in Henleye, between the
messuages of William de Haselholt and Thomas Stori. Monday the feast
of St. Margaret the virgin, 6 Edward III.



[Wilts.]

A. 7185. Acquittance by Haimun de Bakh [amton] for his rent 'de la
Bradetune,' received by the hand of Sir Alan Bassat, from a hide of land
which Alan holds of his fee. Witnesses:—Sirs Roger de Dauntesi,
Reginald de Calne, Hugh de Hentune, Thomas de Kenete, and others
(named). A.D. 1220.

Endorsed:—'Brodeton.'



[N'hamp.]

A. 7186. Grant by Simon son of Walter the clerk, of Hesebi, to
Martin Lovel of Weleton, of 3 half acres of land, with headlands, in
Hesebifield, part in Hesebi Slade, part above Rodmor, and part at Lambe
Cotes. Witnesses:—Roger Beneit of Hesebi, Robert Asce of Weleton, and
others (named).



[Hunt.]

A. 7187. Assignment by Geoffrey de Halywell and Beatrice his wife,
to Robert de Swayefeld and Emma his wife, of the residue of a term
of twenty years in 5 acres 3½ roods land in St. Ives which they held of
Richard le Eyr of Nyddyngwrth, part lying on 'le Benelond,' part called
'le Scharp Rode,' part on 'le Redelond,' part on Langgelond, part on
'le Watery Lond,' part on 'le Wodelond,' part in Kyngesbrok, part on
Thremanhyl, part at the wind mill, part at Cheselynebrigg, and part at
Churchlondes. Sunday before St. Clement, 4 Edward II.



[Kent.]

A. 7188. Release by David de Hesthalle, son of John de Hesthalle,
to Richard the prior, and the canons, of the Holy Trinity, London, of all
the tenements, with rents, homages, and services &c. which he held from
them in Bekeham; in return for which the said canons have acquitted him
against the Jews of London concerning 20 marks, and have remitted to
him 15 marks which he owed to the said canons. Witnesses:—Richard
de Wilkeseye, Julian de Bastane, Alan de Godintone, Geoffrey de
Yrmingelond, Alexander de Orpinton, and others (named).

[Page 132]


[Devon.]

A. 7189. Indenture of demise by John Holbrock, to Thomas
Byllyng, and Matilda his wife, for their lives, in survivorship of a
messuage with a curtilage in Axeministre, adjoining Coulardesberne,
which Thomas Childeheys formerly held. Sunday after Michaelmas, 38
Edward III. Portion of seal.



[Glouc.]

A. 7190. Sale by Geoffrey de Pulham, lord of Wyneston, to Sir Hugh
le Despenser, for 20l. of all the moveable goods and chattels found in his
manor of Wyneston on the undermentioned date. Sunday the feast of
St. Lucy the virgin, 4 Edward II.



[N'hamp.]

A. 7191. Indenture of demise by Robert Baud of Lodynton, to
Thomas de Tewe of Welton, and Ellen his wife, and Thomas their son, for
their lives in survivorship, of a croft in Weltone adjoining Loddereslake
and the tenement of John Mallore, knt. Wednesday before St. George
the martyr, 46 Edward III. Portion of seal.



[N'hamp.]

A. 7192. Release by John Brunne of Buckebroke, and Matilda his
wife, to John Malory of Welton, of all their right in a croft in Welton
adjoining Lodderslake. 28 April, 7 Henry V. Two seals.



[N'hamp.]

A. 7193. Counterpart of A. 7191. Two seals.



[Oxford.]

A. 7194. Indenture of grant by William son of William son of
Elias of Waterpery, to Sir Elias, his brother, of the manor of Tettindon
for life, with remainder to whichever of his heirs, lawfully begotten, he
should wish to assign the same; rendering, yearly, a pair of gilt spurs or
6d. at Easter, at Waterpyrie. Witnesses:—Sir Thomas de Valoynes,
Sir Roger Gernun, Sir Peter Foliot, Walter Payn of Garsindon, William
de Mildecumbe, and others (named). Fragment of seal.



N'hamp.

A. 7195. Conveyance by Nicholas West, Henry Brewes, and Thomas
Fyssher, of Daventre, to John Catesby, esquire, and Margaret his wife,
and his heirs, of a messuage in Braundeston, a croft in Falclyve, abutting
on Fallamgrene, and a virgate and 5 acres of land in the fields of
[Bra] undeston and Falclyve, which they had of the feoffment of John
Nyghtyngale late of Braundeston. . . . . after St. Matthias the
Apostle, 9 Henry VI. Injured. Seal.



[Kent.]

A. 7196. Grant by William son of Elias the tanner, to Roger son
of Gerard de Gardino, of a messuage with a house built thereon, of the
tenement of the abbot and convent of Leneyes. Witnesses:—Richard
de Gurnay, Hosebert de Stanpett, and others (named).



[York.]

A. 7197. Bond by Richard Knut, knight, to Juliana de Sallay,
daughter of the late Walter de Sallay, in 60 marks, for services rendered,
to be paid her on demand, for her promotion. York, XV. Kal. July,
A.D. 1284.



[Kent]

A. 7198. Release by Hamo de la Gare, to his lord, Warin de
Montechen[iso], of all his share in Donesgrave. Witnesses:—Sirs John
de Sancto Claro, Ralph de Chaluns, Ralph de Basingg, and Robert le
Buteler, Bernard de Estun, William de Wyndgate, Walter de Ocolte,
William de Beddesham, and others (named). Fragment of seal.



Warw. York. Leic.

A. 7199. Counterpart indenture, being an agreement made in the
presence of the bishop of Bath and Wells, John de Vescy, Otho de
Grandison, and Robert Tybetot, between the King and Queen Eleanor, his
consort, of the one part, and Sir John le Lou and Amice his wife, of the
other, whereby the said John and Amice released to the said King and
Queen all that part of the inheritance of Richard de Ardern, lately
[Page 133]
deceased, which came to the said Amice, as one of his heirs, in the
manors of Hampton in Ardern, la Knolle, Wutton, and Solyhull, co.
Warwick, and other rents in the same county, and Burton upon Suale,
co. York, and in all other manors and lands &c. of the said Richard's
inheritance in England; for which the said King and Queen have given to
the said Sir John and Amice, for the term of either of their lives, thirty
librates of land in the manor of Neuton Harecurt, co. Leicester. Overton,
27 September, 12 Edward I. Portions of two seals.

Endorsed: 'H[oc] cirografum fuit irrotulatum in cancellar [ia] xxixo
die Septembr [is] ann[o] r[egni] r[egis] E [dwardi] xiio.'



[Essex.]

A. 7200. Grant by Walter son of Walter de Reymes, to Sir Philip
Basset, his lord, of that piece of his land in the field of Throstlesete,
lying between the land of Alfred son of Jordan, and the land of Gilbert son
of Alfred of Samford. Witnesses:— Sir Richard de Hyspania, Richard de
Ruylly, William de Gelham, Roger de Hamsted, Matthew de Piriton,
William de Ambbr[edon] and others (named). Injured.

Endorsed: 'Boiton.'







      

  


  

  
    
      PreviousTable of contentsNext
  


      
      

    

  

  
      
      
        
              
  
    
      
            


      
  

    
                      
    Footer menu
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Help
              
          
        About the project
              
          
        Terms of use
              
          
        Privacy and Cookies
              
          
        Accessibility
              
        
  


  


  
    
      
            Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London


      
  


        
      
    
  

  










