


  








    Deeds: A.7801 - A.7900 | British History Online
    


      




    
    
    
    
    



  Skip to main content



  
    





  
    
          
  
    
  
      
      BHO | British History Online
    
      
  


    
                      
    Main navigation
    
  
  
        

  
    
      
    
    
                    
              
                  Browse Catalogue
                      
          
                  Subject guides
                      
          
                  Using BHO
                      
          
                  About
                      
          
                  Subscribe
                      
          
                  News
                      
        
  
    
  


  


    
                      
    Login
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Login
              
          
        Register
              
        
  


  



    
  

  
  

  

  

  

  

    

      
      
      
            
  
    
        ';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
    Breadcrumb
    
          
                  Home
              
          
                  A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds
              
        
  

  


  
    
      
  Deeds: A.7801 - A.7900



  

  
    
      

  
    A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4. 

    
    Originally published by His Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1902.

    
  



    This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 
    



  
    
      Citation:
        
          BHO
          Chicago
          MLA		
        
    
    
      
'Deeds: A.7801 - A.7900', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4, ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1902), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol4/pp218-235 [accessed 3 July 2026].
    


    
      
'Deeds: A.7801 - A.7900', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4. Edited by   H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1902), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
 https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol4/pp218-235.
    


    
      
"Deeds: A.7801 - A.7900". A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4. Ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London, 1902), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol4/pp218-235.
    


  
  
    
  

  
    

  

            
        Keyword Highlight
        
        Search
        
      
     
    
            
  



A.7801 - A.7900





Essex.

A. 7801. Indenture of feoffment by John Nethersale the elder and
John Chartesey of Chelmesford, co. Essex, to Richard Artour the elder of
Spryngfeld in the same county and Isabel his wife, daughter of John Nele
att Water, late while he lived of Springfeld aforesaid, of all the lands &c.
called 'Homes' late John Munde's in Spryngfelde, with 12a. land there in
'Pesyngfeld' between the highway from Chelmesford to Sandfordmelle on
the west and lands called 'Spryngfeldebernelandes' belonging to the chantry
of Great Badowe on the east, abutting on land of Thomas Tyrell,
knight, called 'Hylmar'' to the north and on the said highway on the south,
and whereof 6a. late belonged to John Pese and 6a. to Robert Plomer,
gentlemen, all which they had of the gift and feoffment of the said Richard
and Isabel, John Osberne and Thomas Byrde by charter dated at
Springefeld, 1 December, 13 Henry VII; to hold to the said Richard and
Isabel and the heirs of her body, with remainder in default to the right
heirs of the said Richard. Witnesses:—Richard Browe, rector of a
mediety of the church of Spryngfelde and others (named). 18 December,
13 Henry VII. Seals.



[Norf.]

A. 7802. Feoffment by Sir Roger de Ormesby, knight, to Emma late
wife of Robert de Westlee of a piece of arable of 1½ roods in Ormesby field
between land late the said Robert's on either side and abutting northwards
on land belonging to the Norman Spital (Hospitali Normannie) of Norwich.
Thursday after St. John before the Latin gate, 13 Edward III.



[Norf.]

A. 7803. Feoffment by Simon de Steyngate of Scrouteby to Richard
Bokele of Leyston and Thomas Issabel of Scrouteby of the lands and
tenements he had and held in fee on day of date in the town and fields of
Scrouteby, Ormesby and Hemesby. 24 September, 43 Edward [III].



Norf.

A. 7804. Feoffment by Oliver Groos, esquire, and Nicholas Wichyng-
ham, esquire, according to the effect of the last wills of William Clere,
esquire, of Ormesby, the elder, and of John his son and heir, both deceased,
and with the assent and at the request of Robert Clere, esquire, son and
heir of the said John, to Edmund Clere, esquire, son of the said John of the
[Page 219]
manors of Burgh, co. Norfolk, called 'Vausehalle' and 'Stalhamhalle,' to him,
his heirs and assigns. Witnesses:—Miles Stapilton, esquire, John
Clyppesby, esquire, and others (named). 10 April, 8 Henry VI. Seals (a
martlet, Groos).



Norf.

A. 7805. Letter of attorney by Oliver Groos, esquire, and Nicholas
Wychyngham, esquire, to Richard Sterre, clerk, and Thomas Arnald,
gentleman, to deliver seisin to Edmund Clere, esquire, of the manors of
Burgh, co. Norfolk, called 'Vausehalle' and 'Stalhamhalle.' 10 April,
8 Henry VI. Seals (a martlet, Groos).



[Norf.]

A. 7806. Release by John Jermy and Thomas Jermy, esquires, Roger
Dokkyng of Strumpeshaugh and John Wattes of Northberlyngham to Roger
Cullum of Claxton, Edmund Aleyn of Hasyngham and John Treman of the
same of their right in a close called 'Moorcrofte Zarde,' reckoned at one acre
of land, in Bokenhamfery, which together with other lands and tenements
they had jointly with the said Roger Cullum, Edmund and John Treman,
by the gift and feoffment of Thomas Coupere of Bokenham aforesaid.
19 March, 11 Henry VII.




A. 7807. Release by William Jennay to William Oldhalle, knight,
William Norwiche the younger and John Gilbert, citizens and aldermen of
Norwich, Robert Norwiche of Beeston, John Westgate and John Darby
citizen of Norwich, and the heirs and assigns of the said William Norwiche,
of his right in the manor and advowson of Bokenham Ferye, and one rood
land in, and the advowson of, Hasyngham. 20 January, 35 Henry VI.
Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 7808. Feoffment by Richard Wellys of Scrouteby, to Elizabeth
Clere of 11d. rent from William Stywardesson for la. 3 roods land in
Ormesby with the fealty and service of the said William. Witnesses:—
John Paston, Edmund Clere of Castre and Edmund Clere of Stokeby,
esquires. 10 September, 33 Henry VI. Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 7809. Feoffment by Walter Cordewaner of Ormesby to Elizabeth
Clere of the same of 12d. rent which Henry Cordewaner his father used to
receive from her for 3a. land at Skynwelle, 8d. he used to receive from
Richard Shotesham for 2a. in Ormesby, 6d. from Nicholas Aylewarde for 2a.,
2d. from Margaret Granoc for ½a., 5d. from James Cordewaner for la. 1 rood,
12d. from John Empool of Scrouteby for 3a., 5d. from John Fastolf, knight,
for 1a. 1 rood, 9d. from Margaret Caston for 2a. 1 rood, 3d. from Hubert
Sparhow for 3 roods, and 8d. from Walter Shipdam for 2a. called
'Chekirlonde,' all in Ormesby, together with the rents and services of the
aforesaid persons tenants of the suit called 'Cacher' (tenendum ad sectarn
Cacher). 3 April, 3 Edward IV. Seal. Cf. A. 7769.



[Norf.]

A. 7810. Indenture of feoffment by Oliver Wyth, knight, to Robert
Clere of Ormesby and Alice his wife and the heirs of their bodies to be
begotten, of 1 rood land in Burgh St. Mary in Flegg, together with the
advowson of the church of St. Mary of the same town by service of a rose at
Midsummer, with remainder in default of such issue to be begotten to
Robert and William their sons successively in tail, with reversion in default
of their issue to him the said Oliver. Witnesses:—Sir Robert de Benale
and Sir Robert de Mauteby, knights, Thomas de Ormesby, and others
(named). Monday after St. Hilary, 30 Edward III. Seal of arms (a chevron
between three mullets of six points) with legend sigillum . . roberti . . [c]lere.

[Page 220]


[Norf.]

A. 7811. Release by Roger de Hurle of Skeyton to Ralph Henri of
Ormesby and his heirs, of his right in a piece of arable in Castre field.
Tuesday the eve of the Epiphany, 1 Edward III. Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 7812. Feoffment by Nicholas le Clerk of Castre to Ralph Henry of
Ormesby of a piece of land containing 7a. in Castre field. Sunday after
Michaelmas, 17 Edward II.



[Norf.]

A. 7813. Release by Margery relict of Nicholas le Clerk of Castre, in
her widowhood, to Robert son of Ralph Henry of Ormesby, of her right by
reason of her dower or otherwise in a piece of land in Castre field, between
lands of Nicholas Fastolf and John de Filby. Wednesday after Christmas,
17 Edward III.



[Norf.]

A. 7814. Bond by Ralph Henry of Ormesby to Nicholas son of
Thomas le Clerk of Great Yarmouth (Magna Jernemuta) and Margaret his
wife in 20l. for a piece of land called 'Sevene Acres' in Castre field, which
he lately bought of the said Nicholas, to be paid at Castre in Fleg in the
house of John Hervy of the same on Saturday after the feast of St.
Andrew, 17 Edward II. Ormesby, Thursday before St. Luke, 17 Edward II.
Seal.



London.

A. 7815. Feoffment by Walter de Ellesworth, chaplain, to Roger atte
Ponde, citizen of London and Juliana his wife of a toft containing 2a. land
with a dovecot thereon in Estsmethefeld in the parish of St. Botolph
without Algate, London, between land of Stephen de Cauntebrigge on the
east and tenements of Agnes Lucas and others on the west and running
from the highway on the north to the tenement of William Haunsard and
others on the south. Thursday after the Holy Trinity, 21 Edward III.



London.

A. 7816. Feoffment by Cristina late the wife of William le Bret,
citizen and goldsmith of London, in her widowhood, to John Neyrneut,
citizen of London, of one mark quitrent which she was accustomed yearly
to receive from Walter Cady, citizen and chandler of London, for a tenement
she had demised to him for the term of her life, and which came to her in
dower after her said husband's decease, in the parish of St. Nicholas Olave
in the old fishmarket, and which she lately held by the assignment of
Henry de la More, late citizen and goldsmith of London, being situate
between the tenement late the said Henry's on the east and south, Roger de
Ely's tenement on the west and the highway on the north; the reversion
of which tenement expectant on her decease belonged to the said John
Neirneut by the grant and sale of John de Hynggestone, goldsmith, and
John de Totenham, chandler, citizens of London, executors of the will of
the said Henry de la More. Witnesses:—Robert de Ely being alderman of
the ward &c. London, Monday after All Hallows, 3 Edward III.

Endorsed: Shordich.




A. 7817. Indenture being an agreement between Sir William Calceby,
rector of the church of St. Dionis Bakchirche, London, John Wyk and Adam
Grove, churchwardens, and Thomas Bonantre, John Kelseye, and John
Silkeston, parishioners of the same, of the one part, and Alice late the wife
of Nicholas Marchant, late citizen of London and William Castre, 'cotiller,'
citizen of the said city, of the other, for the repair and scouring of a leaden
gutter between a tenement of the said rector and parishioners and the
tenements of the said Alice and William formerly of William Newport,
'fisshmonger,' in the parish of St. Margaret Lothebury, London. 23
October, A.D. 1393, 17 Richard II. Three seals intact.

[Page 221]


London.

A. 7818. Release by Simon son of William son of Adam to the prior,
John, and convent of Holy Trinity, London, of his right in a tenement
which Avice his mother in her widowhood gave them in Goderone Lane in
the parish of St. John Zachary, London; for this they gave him ½ mark
Witnesses:—Ralph Hardel, mayor, William Aswy and Richard de Ewelle,
sheriffs, Adam de Basingges and others (named).



London.

A. 7819. Release by John de Ewelle of London to the prior, Thomas,
and convent of Holy Trinity, London, of his right in a shop which Henry
atte Roche, chandler of London then held by their demise, situate at the
corner of Ismongereslane in Chepe, London. Friday before St. Philip and
St. James, 10 Edward III. Seal.



[London.]

A. 7820. Memorandum of an agreement for the payment by William
Blund (blundus) of Marthelane, capper (capcllarius), to Simon the woollen
draper (lanario) of Cornhull of his debt of 13½ marks 2s. viz. he has pledged
his two small houses to him in the parish of St. Olave towards Alegath between
Roger Burguin's land to the east and the land of Pentecost the goldsmith
to the west, and made him full seisin thereof, so that he may receive the
issues thereof yearly in payment of the said money by tally made between
them to begin, viz. on the feast of St. John Baptist, 25 Henry III. when he
took the first issues. Simon is to acquit the houses yearly against the
lords of the fee of 42d. the balance to be allowed in payment; repairs to be
done by William; the houses to revert to him when the debt is paid.



[London.]

A. 7821. Chirograph, not indented, being a grant and demise by
Hernisius son of Hugh the dyer to Mauger (Malgero) of Candelewrite Strate of
the land which Mauger held of his said father; to hold in fee and heredity
rendering 3s. yearly for all service; and in augmentation he has demised to
the said Mauger and his heirs the land which Gerard the smith (faber)
held of the said Hugh his father; to hold for 3s. 8d. yearly. The sum of
the rent is half a mark yearly to wit 40d. within the octave of Easter, and
40d, within the octave of Michaelmas; for this Malgerus has given him 20s.
in gersum for the one, and 40s. for the other, tenement, and to Juliana his
wife 2s. in gersum. Witnesses:—William the priest (sacerdote) of St.
Clement, Robert the priest of Habechirce, Benedict the alderman, Peter
son of Neuel, Thomas son of Margaret and others (named).



[London.]

A. 7822. Grant by Turold warden of the leprous maidens (infirmarum
puellarum) of the hospital of St. James by Charing (Cherringam) and the
brethren and sisters of the same place to Jordan son of Saiet of all that
their land which Durantus the fuster (fustarius) held of them in the parish
of St. Michael in Bassieshage, between the land of Adam the cutler and the
land of John Palmer; to hold to him and his heirs in fee and heredity
rendering therefore yearly to them 3s. for all service, to wit within the
octaves of St. Michael and Easter, without let and 'meskenninga.' The
said land contains in width 19 ells of the ells of king Richard and in length
29 ells; for this he has given them ½ mark silver in gersum. Witnesses:—
Henry son of Ailwin, mayor of London, Roger son of Alan, John son of
Robert son of Herlicun, Robert son of Bartholomew, alderman, William
Villanus, Richard son of Osbert, William de Eppinge, Andrew de
Holebourne, Reginald the tanner (tannario) and other. Endorsed:—Carta
Hospitalis puellarum infirmarum de Sancto Jacobo quam habuimus cum
Jordano Saiet de terra in Bassishage pro iij. solidis per annum.



London.

A. 7823. Feoffment by Robert de Suffolk, citizen of London, to
Walter de Forda, citizen of the same, and Christina his wife of a tenement
he had by the demise of Jeremy de Trye in the lane called 'les Arches' in
the parish of St. Michael of 'Pater nostres cherche' in the city of London,
[Page 222]
between the wall of the seld called 'Wynchestre Seld' on the east and the
said lane on the west; area in ells; a chamber with solar over it reserved;
rent 1d. at Midsummer; to the chief lords of the fee, to wit to the prior
and convent of Holy Trinity, London, ½ mark, to the prior and convent of
St. Mary's, Suwerk, 4s. to the prior and convent of St. Bartholomew's,
Smithefeld, London, 40d. to the nuns of Kelebourne, 40d. and to dame
Joan de Sancto Benedicto, nun of Kelebourne, 2s. yearly; for this they
have given him 20l. in gersum. Witnesses:—Gregory de Roquesle mayor
of London, and alderman of that ward, John Horn and Ralph le Blond,
sheriffs, Robert de Roquesle, Peter Cosin and others (named).

Endorsed: Carta faciens mencionem de vj.s. viij.d. redditu quem
percipimus de Henrico le Palmere in parochia de Paternoster Cherche in
London."



London.

A. 7824. Release by Ralph la Justise to Richard the prior and the
canons of Holy Trinity, London, of 42s. rent which William Chamberlain
(camerarius) gave him in frank marriage with Dionisia his daughter in
London, to wit, from land and houses of the countess of Oxford in the
parish of Pater Noster cherche ½ mark; from the land and house of Peter
de Trye there ½ mark; from the house and land of Stephen le Gros (crassi)
in the parish of St. James, 5s.; from the house and land of the prior of
Lewes in the parish of St. Thomas Apostle, 4s.; from the house and land
of William le Gros (crassi) there 10s.; from the shop of John Sonke in the
west fishmarket in the parish of St. Nicholas, 3s.; and from the house and
land of Richard Foliot in the parish of St. Faith, ½ mark; for this
they gave him 10 marks. Witnesses:—Ralph Aswy mayor of
London, John son of John Viel and Thomas de Durham (Dunholmia)
then sheriffs of London, Reyner de Bungeye, Ralph Hardel, Thomas son of
Richard, Lawrence de Frowyk, Richard son of Walter and James Blund,
aldermen, John Noreman, Henry son of William, John de Coudres, John
Everad, Geoffrey parson of St. Dunstan, John de Teffunt and other.

Endorsed:—Quieta clamacio Radulphi Justiciarii.




A. 7825. Letters patent by John Marchaunt son of Nicholas Marchaunt,
late citizen of London, reciting the grant by William Castre, citizen and cutler
of London, by his charter enrolled in the Husting of London of pleas of
land held Monday the feast of St. Wulstan the Bishop, 6 Henry IV, to the
said John Marchaunt and to John Castre, his son, begotten on Alice his
wife, sister of the said John Marchaunt, of two adjacent tenements in the
parish of St. Margaret Lothbury, in one of which the said Nicholas dwelt
while alive and William Neuport late citizen and fishmonger of London in
the other, bounded by the tenement of Richard Willesdon late citizen and
chandler of London on the east, the tenement belonging to the church of
St. Dionis on the west, Lord de Nevile's tenement on the south and the
highway of Lothebury on the north, to hold to them and the heirs of the
body of the said John Castre the son, with reversion in default to the said
John Marchaunt, his heirs and assigns; assignment by the said John
Marchaunt of the said reversion expectant on the death without issue of the
said John Castre the son, to Henry Julyan, smith (ferroni), Richard Osbarn
and Henry Hert, citizens of London, Henry Jolypace and Thomas Preston,
clerks, their heirs and assigns for ever. Robert Chichele being then mayor,
and Walter Cotton and John Reynewell then sheriffs of London,
Witnesses:—John Caundisshe, Thomas Roter, William Crane, Robert Rever.
2 November, 13 Henry IV. Memorandum endorsed of enrolment Monday
before St. Martin the Bishop in winter, 13 Henry IV, in the Husting of
Common Pleas. Fragment of Seal.

[Page 223]


[London.]

A. 7826. Feoffment by John Hornepite and Juliana his wife to
Ralph Cook (coco) of Winchester of all that their land they held in Limstrate
of Henry Lafaitie of the fee of Ramsey (Ramescia), to hold in fee and
heredity, rendering ½lb. cummin for all service save the service of the chief
lord of that land, to wit 42d. yearly which he, the said John, used to pay to
William Lafaitie the said Henry's father; for this Ralph has given them 4
marks in gersum. Witnesses:—William de Sancto Andrea and Lawrence
de Omnibus Sanctis, chaplains, Master Henry Lafaitie, Theobald son
of Yvo, William Fubert, Matthew Blund (albo) and Alan Burser (bursario),
aldermen, Roger de Parisiis, Roger and Reginald his sons, Robert son of
Durantus, Hugh Palmer his servant, Gilbert de Parisiis, Robert his son,
Roger Palmer, William Bascat, William Francis (gallico), Richard Bascat,
Richard his servant, Alfwin Palmer, John Peverel, Solomon Dauber
(dubario), Richard Corder (cordario), Simon de Parisiis, cook, Ralph Wimpler
(wimplario), Richard 'Savonier,' Stacekinus, Ralph de Norfolk, William son
of Ralph Little (parvi), Elyot Cook (coco), Alexander Cook (coco), Robert
Ippescade and Ernald his son, Rand' Palmer, Paganus Tabur and Peter his
son, Edmund de la Hale, Spilemannus, Richer, Richard de Westmouster,
Robert Crisp (crispo), Robert Blanc Cheval, Gilbert brother of Conan,
Willekinus his brother, Richard nephew (nepote) of Walter, Sanson de
Barbefluctu, Hugh de Parisiis, Hugh 'Torto,' Gerald 'le bochir,' David son
of Ralph, Lawrence his brother, William the clerk and many other.



London.

A. 7827. Feoffment by John Long (longus), citizen and butcher
(carnifex) of London, to Hugh de Waltham, clerk, of 40s. quit rent from a
brew-house (tenemento bracino) in the parish of St. Leonard in the street of
Estchep, London, which he had by the feoffment of Richard Scharp, citizen
and butcher of London, between Nicholas de Farndon's tenement to the
east, a tenement of the said Richard and a sollar without basement (sine
fundamento) belonging to him, the said John, by the gift of the said Richard,
to the west, in length, and in width between a tenement formerly of William
de Hakeneye and Robert de Multon to the north and land formerly Gilbert
Mullyng's to the south; and also from a tenement with two shops and a
curtilage which he had by the feoffment of Geva Mullyng sometime wife of
the said Gilbert, which formerly was John Frank's, in the said parish,
situate between his, the said John's, tenement on the east and north,
Richard Scharp's tenement on the west and the highway on the south; to
hold in fee and heredity, with power of distraint. Witnesses:—John de
Gysorz, mayor, John Lambyn, alderman of the ward of Bridge, one of the
sheriffs and Adam Lutekyn the other, Nigel Drury, alderman of the ward of
Billingesgate, John de Mockyngge, John Freshfish. and others (named),
John de la Barre, serjeant of Billinggesgate ward, John le Gros, serjeant of
Bridge ward. Thursday after the Purification, 6 Edward II.

Memorandum, endorsed of enrolment in the Husting of pleas of land,
Monday the feast of St. Gregory the Pope, 6 Edward II.



[Middx.]

A. 7828. Feoffment by Odo de Westmonasterio son of Edward de
Westmonasterio to Sir Adam de Stratton, clerk, of 4a. meadow in the
town of Stebbenheth which he had by the gift of his father, rendering
1d. at Easter for all service; consideration, 20 marks. Witnesses:—
Sir Elias de Herteford then remembrancer of the King's Exchequer and
others (named).



[London.]

A. 7829. Feoffment by Adam son of Richard le Chaufoner to Adam
de Stratton, clerk, of a place of land between his tenement and the said
Adam's in the parish of St. Sepulchre without Newegate, extending from
the prison of Flete in length, to the little lane (parvam venellam regiam)
which reaches from the bailey without Newegate to the Flete (usque Flete);
[Page 224]
it was uniformly 3½ feet wide and on it the said Adam was to build a wall of
stone or earth or a paling (pallicium) at his pleasure between their
respective tenements. Witnesses:—Thomas son of Thomas, then
mayor of London, Edward le Blund and Peter Anger, sheriffs, Michael
Tovy, alderman of the ward, Richard de Enefeld, Richard le Bedel, Henry
le Wympler and other.



[London]

A. 7830. Feoffment by Cristiana daughter of the late William de
Alegate, 'feleper,' to Jorninus son of Abraham, the Jew, of a messuage in
the parish of St. Botolph in Estsmethefeud, between the land of Walter le
Porter to the south, the land of John de Sancto Ositho, carpenter, to the north,
being 26 ells long of the iron ells of the king and 5 ells wide; to hold
by the rent of a clove gilliflower at Easter for all service; consideration,
40s. beforehand in gersum. Witnesses:—Sir Walter Hervy then mayor
of London, Walter le Poter and John Horn, sheriffs, Ranulf de Andebur',
under-constable (sub conestabulo) of the Tower of London, Walter le Porter
of Christcherche, John Godale, and others (named). Fragment of seal.

Endorsed: Soka in Smethefeld.



[London.]

A. 7831. Release by Richard son of William de Alegate, 'feleper,'
to Jorninus son of Abraham, the Jew, of his right in a messuage in the
parish of St. Botolph of Estsmethefud, bequeathed by his said father to
Cristiana his sister. Witnesses:—Ranulf de Andebur', under-constable of
the Tower of London, Walter le Porter of Christcherch, and others (named).
Fragment of seal.

Endorsed: Soka.



[Middlesex]

A. 7832. Feoffment by Geoffrey son of Richard Cook (coci) of
Edelmeton, to the prior, Richard, and canons of Holy Trinity, London, of
12d. rent which they used to pay him for a tenement they held of him in
the town of Edelmeton; rendering only 2d. at Michaelmas for all service;
for this they have given him 1 mark silver in gersum. Witnesses.



London.

A. 7833. Counterpart indenture between John Chelrey, clerk,
Richard Forster, Thomas Vynent and Paul Gisors, of the one part, and
Sir William Burcestre, knight, and Margaret his wife of the other; reciting
that Alice late the wife of John Chichestre formerly held for the term of
her life after the death of John Gisors her first husband by his devise all
his shops and sollars near the Conduit of London, between the tenements
formerly Thomas Hauteyn's now Maud Holbech's to the east and the
tenement formerly Richard Dynes' now of William Stamelden, goldsmith,
to the west, the reversion thereof expectant to 'Frank Nichol' and dame
Margaret wife of Sir William Burcestre, knight, as cousins and heirs of the
said John Gisors; and reciting that the said Frank granted the reversion of
a moiety of the said shops and sollars to them the said John Chelrey,
Richard and Thomas to hold in common with the said dame Margaret his
coparcener; and reciting that on the death of the said Alice the demesne
of the said shops and sollars came to them the said Margaret, John,
Richard and Thomas as tenants in common; release of their moiety by the
said John, Richard, Thomas and Paul to the said Sir William and dame
Margaret his wife in exchange for a perpetual rent charge on the whole of
the premises of 7 marks. French.

Memorandum endorsed of enrolment in the Husting of pleas of land
Monday before St. Margaret, 9 Richard II.

[Page 225]


London.

A. 7834. Release by Margery Somery late the wife of John Somery
to Henry de Langare, citizen and goldsmith of London, and Emma de
Hallyngebyri his wife of her right in a place of land with buildings in
Goderonlane in the parish of St. John Zachary, London, against
Kyronlane, between her tenement on the east, the highway on the west, a
tenement formerly Adam de Hallingebyri's on the north and her tenement
on the south; it contains 4¾ ells in width and 11¼ ells 4 inches in length;
for which place of land she impleaded the said Henry and Emma in the
Husting of London by writ of right. Witnesses:—Elyas de Suffolk,
alderman of the ward, &c. Wednesday the feast of St. Faith, 10 Edward II.
Enrolment in the Husting of London of pleas of land, Monday the feast
of St. Luke, 10 Edward II, endorsed.




A. 7835. Letters patent being a statement of account and receipt by
brother John de Capriaco, prior of the house of the Hospital of Jerusalem
in France and John de Faremer, treasurer of the said house at Paris.
Whereas they had received 5,000 marks sterling from Robert Burnell,
archdeacon of York, lieutenant of Edward king of England, by the hand of
Lottus Hugolini, of Siena (Senens'), partner of Baldus Aldebrandi and
Bartholomew Marky dwelling at London, for the payments the said king
was bound to make by the manucaption of the master and convent of the
Hospital of St. John of Jerusalem to divers of his creditors in France, for
receipt of which sum the said Robert had their letters patent; they had
retained unpaid of the said sum for Pascal Abdon 109 marks 2s. 8d. sterling;
for Elyas and Halep, the Jews, 2,578 marks 9s. 4d. sterling, which sums
were paid in October last by the said master in Acre (partibus Aconens')
on the said king's behalf; Item they had retained unpaid in respect of
3,033l. 6s. 8d. Tournois, which, by the said master's order they paid on
behalf of the said king to Keryan de Sala and James Folianellus merchants
of Pisa (Pysanis) the same month, 1,137 marks and a half; Item they paid,
for the said king, to Philip Guysi, merchant of Vannes (Venecens') at the
Lagny fair (nundinis Latiniaci) last past in respect of 1,526l. 5s. Tournois in
which the said king was bound to him, 572 marks 4s. 7d. sterling; Item
they paid at the same fair to William and Reymund de Polers, Robert de
Muntyni and Peter de Dunes, merchants of Narbonne (Norbon') in part of
the payment the said king was bound to make them, in respect of
1,606l. 4d. Tournois, 602 marks 3s. 5d. sterling; and so, reckoning four
Tournois for one sterling, the sum total of the said payments is 5,000
marks.

Subsequently they received at the said fair from Iterius Bochard, clerk,
and Luke de Lucca (Luca), deputed to make the payments of the said king,
361l. 12s. 2d. Tournois to complete the payment which the said king was
bound to make to William and Reymund de Polers and their partners at
the said fair.

Item they received from the same for Thomas Grassus, Reginald Pysan,
and their partners, 3,754l. 7s. 11d. Tournois which the said king was bound
to pay them by a letter patent of his.

Item they received from the said Iterius and Luke for the said
Thomas Grassus and his partners 1,953l. 11s. 6d. Tournois which the said
king by another letter patent was bound to pay them at the said fair.

The sum of the money received from the said Iterius and Luke is
6,059l. 11s. 7d. Tournois. Dated Saturday before the chair of St. Peter,
A.D. 1272.



[Middx.]

A. 7836. Release by Alice daughter of Robert Selveyn, of Edel-
meton, widow, to the prior, John, and canons of Holy Trinity, London,
of 3½a. land and ½a. meadow in Edelmeton, for which she impleaded
[Page 226]
them by writ of morte d'ancestor in the king's court; and release of her
right in all lands formerly her said father's there; for this they have given
her 40s. beforehand. Westminster, 27 May, 43 Henry III. Witnesses:—
Sir John de Wyvile, then justice of the king in bench at Westminster,
Eichard de Haveringe and others (named).



London.

A. 7837. Feoffment by Roger de Estchep to the prior, John, and
canons of Holy Trinity, London, of 5s. quit rent from houses, cellars and
shops in the parish of St. Leonard of Estchep, London, for which
tenements he was bound to render yearly to the said canons 16s. 4d.
besides the said 5s.; for this they have given him 36s. beforehand.
Witnesses:—Ralph Hardel being then mayor of London, Stephen de
Ostregate and Henry de Walemund, sheriffs, Michael Tovi, Robert Hardel,
Nicholas Bat and others (named).

Endorsed: Rogerus de Estchep de v. s. redditus ad pitanciam pro anima
Roberti de Haringeh'.



[Middx.]

A. 7838. Demise by the prior, William, and convent of Holy Trinity,
London, to John Tailor (cissori) of Edelmeton, for his homage and service
of land in Edelmeton between the grove formerly Ralph Heyron's to the
south, the highway to the north, John Kelyng's land to the east and
William Bedel's (bedelli) to the west; to hold to him and his heirs for ever;
rendering 12d. yearly for all service; a right of way from the highway to
the grove reserved to them; for this he has given them 4s. beforehand.
Fragment of seal.



[Middx.]

A. 7839. Chirograph, indented, being a grant by the prior, Richard,
and canons of Holy Trinity, London, to Swein son of William de Havering
of 6a. land in Edelmeton of the fee of Ralph de Heyrun next the land which
was Sigar's to the east and extending from their grove to the road; to hold
to the said Swein his heirs and assigns in fee and heredity; rendering 2s.
yearly; for this he has given them 10s. sterling in gersum. Witnesses.
Fragment of seal.

Endorsed: Contrascriptum carte Sweini de sex acris apud Edelmeton
pro ij s. Modo H. Somer: also Modo Willelmus Pymme tenet in feodo per
servicium ij s. ut infra et homagium et ideo distringatur per eodem.



[London.]

A. 7840. Chirograph, not indented, being a grant by the prior,
Peter, and convent of Holy Trinity, London, to Alvred le Bochiere of a certain
land of theirs which is in the parish of St.Olave towards the Tower, which next
before him John Herlizun held; to hold to him and his heirs freely and
quietly in fee and heredity for 12d. yearly for all service, to wit 6d. at
Michaelmas and 6d. at Easter; he has sworn in the chapter of the canons
on the four evangiles to be faithful to the church for this tenement and
that he will keep well the appointed terms for rendering the rent (censu)
without fail (sine occasione et meskenning'); the said land is 6½ ells wide on
the street and 30½ ells deep; if he wish to pledge or sell his fee the canons
to have the preference by one bezant; for this he has given them 12d. in
gersum. Witnesses:—John de Ballio and others (named).



[Middx.]

A. 7841. Release by Henry son of William of Edelmeton to John son
of John of the same of his right in a wood formerly Robert Selveyn's there,
and in 12d. rent from a messuage then held by Gilbert Bolle there; for
this release the said John has given him and his heirs a croft called
Edelputel there and 10 marks beforehand.



London.

A. 7842. Feoffment by Henry Chaunterel of Westminster to Adam
de Strattone, clerk, of 9½d. rent to be received yearly at the hands of Ralph
T[anur] and his heirs for a tenement in the suburb of London in the
[Page 227]
parish of St. Sepulchre in the little lane behind the Flete prison; also
release of his right in a tenement lying between the court of the said Adam
and the house of the said Ralph in the said lane. Fragment of seal.



[London.]

A. 7843. Feoffment by Geoffrey de Brynkele to Roger Clerk (clerico)
son of Roger Palmer of land with buildings on it in Godronelane in the
parish of St. John Zachary against Kyrunelane, next land formerly Eustace
Painter's (pictoris) to the south, 6½ ells wide to the street, of iron ells of
king Henry, and 17 ells long, extending from the highway to the stone
wall which was Roger Palmer's and in width at the said wall from the
south part of the cellar window in it to the land which was Eustace
Painter's (pictoris); rent ½lb. of cummin or 1d. at Michaelmas, and the
service due to the lords of the fee, viz. 2s. to the bishop of Ely yearly: the
said Geoffrey has sworn (affidavi) in the full Husting of London to keep, &c.;
for this Roger has given him 40s. in gersum. Witnesses:—Andrew
Bukerell then mayor, Roger Blund, Simon son of Mary, Joceus son of
Peter, then aldermen, Michael de Sancta Elena and others (named).



London.

A. 7844. Counterpart demise by the prior and convent of Holy
Trinity, London, to Richard de Hanneye, citizen and goldsmith of London,
and Joan his wife for their lives in survivorship of a tenement which John
Michel and Maud late his wife used to hold of them in Goderonlane in the
parish of St. John Zachary in the city of London, bounded by the
tenements late Adam de Hallingburi's on the south and east, the tenement
of the said prior and convent, then held by Joan late the wife of John le
Gay, on the north, and Goderonlane on the west, at 16s. rent and on
condition of doing repairs. Sunday before the Conversion of St. Paul,
7 Edward III. John de Hyngeston being alderman of the ward, &c.



London.

A. 7845. Release by John son and heir of Elyas Baker (pistoris) in
full Husting of London to the prior and convent of Holy Trinity, London,
of his right in a tenement his father held of them in Hoggenelane and
Godrunelane in the parish of St. John Zachary, London. Witnesses:—
Sir Ralph de Sandwich then warden of the city of London, William de
Horefeud and Thomas de Stanes, sheriffs, and Sir John de Bagwell
alderman of the ward, Sir Ralph le Blund and others (named). Seal.

Endorsed: Nomina eorum qui interfuerunt quando Johannes filius Elye
nos seisivit de tenemento infra scripto Stephanus de Wyndleshor &c.
Also—Memorandum of enrolment in the Husting of London, Monday
before St. Andrew, 16 Edward [I].



[London.]

A. 7846. Counterpart demise by the prior and convent of Holy
Trinity, London, to John Mich [el] and Maud his wife for their lives of a
tenement he dwelt in between the tenement formerly Adam de Hallingeburi
on the south and east, the tenement John le Gay then held on the north
and Goderonlane on the west; rent 16s., tenant doing repairs. Feast of the
Assumption, 2 Edward II. Seal, broken.



London.

A. 7847. Feoffment by John de Hyngeston, citizen and goldsmith
of London, to Robert de Schordich, citizen and goldsmith of London, son
of Roger le Hornere, late citizen of London, of the tenements he had
by the feoffment of John Neirneut and Margery his wife in the parish of
St. Nicholas Olof in the old fishmarket (veteri piscaria), London, which
tenements formerly were Henry de la More's, citizen and goldsmith of
London, by the gift and feoffment of William le Bret, citizen and goldsmith
of London; the said tenements stretch from St. Nicholas' Church to the
house formerly Adam Haryng's: Richard de Rothyngg being alderman of
the ward &c. Friday the feast of the Conception, 9 Edward III. Seal.

[Page 228]



Memorandum endorsed of enrolment in the Husting of London of Common
Pleas, Monday after St. Nicholas, 9 Edward III.



London.

A. 7848. Release by Perottus Vanne, executor of the testament of
John Vanne, late citizen of London, to Robert de Shordich the younger,
citizen and goldsmith of London, of all the tenements which by virtue of
the king's writ to the sheriffs of London were extended and delivered to
him the said Perottus as executor of the said testament to hold by the
extent thereof made in the parish of St. Nicholas Olof in the city of London
for 15l. sterling in part payment of 47l. then in arrear of a debt of 1,200
marks sterling wherein Margaret de Mortimer, John Bygot parson of
Cotingham in the diocese of York, Robert de Fenes, Robert de Depyngg
parson of Colne Quincy, Andrew de Staunford skinner of London, Adam
le Taillour citizen of London, Richard But citizen of London and Henry de
la More of London goldsmith, were bound to the said John Vanne by their
recognizance in the Exchequer of King Edward I, which tenements
formerly belonged to the said Henry de la More. 8 March, 12 Edward III.
Seal of arms, broken.



London.

A. 7849. Testament, with probate endorsed, of Robert de Schordych
citizen and goldsmith of London son of the late Roger le Horner citizen of
the same; to be buried in the great churchyard of St. Paul's, London;
to high altar of St. Vedast's, London, of which he was then parishioner',
for tithes forgotten 40d.; to the master clerk there 12d., to the under clerk
6d., to the high altar of St. Nicholas Olave's, London, 40d., to the master
and under clerks there 12d. and 6d. respectively; to the almonry (elemosine)
of St. Dunstan ½ mark; to William his brother for his labour about his
will, ½ mark; to Richard de Basyngstok the younger ½ mark for the like;
release to said brother of all debts; to Joan his wife for life his cellar
(selarium) in the parish of St. Nicholas Olave in Bredstrete then held by
Nicholas called Blakecolle as a tavern and the buildings above it then held
by Robert Chaundos; the said Joan to have the custody of their daughters
Alice, Isabel, and Parnel (Petronille); his other tenements in the said
parish of St. Nicholas to be charged with 40l. sterling for his said
daughters, viz. 20 marks apiece as it could be conveniently raised from the
rents for their marriages, the said tenements thus charged to remain in his
executor's custody till the sum was levied; the reversion of the said
tenements and of the said cellar and houses to John his son in tail with
remainder in default to his surviving daughters and their issue, with
remainder in default to his right heirs; Robert de Schordich the elder,
citizen and goldsmith of London, to have the custody of the said John and
of the said reversions, finding security in the Guildhall (Gyhalda); his
executors to arrange for John de Welton his apprentice to serve out his
term, and the like in the case of his other apprentices; residue for sale by
his executors for the payment of his debts; executors to be his said wife
and brother and Richard de Basyngstok the younger, supervisors, Robert
de Schordych the elder and Adam Walpol. London, Thursday after
St. Valentine, A.D. 1348, 23 Edward III. Proved before Geoffrey de
Haryngworthe commissary of the Dean of St. Mary Arches, V Kal. March,
A.D. 1348, by Joan and William with power reserved to Richard. The first
out of Jive seals remaining.



[Norf.]

A. 7850. Release by John Gerard, 'gentilman,' citizen of Norwich to
William Norwych the younger, William Liminour, William Prentya,
Richard Chirche of Bungay and Roger Crosse, clerk, of his right in a
messuage by Bokenham Ferye in the town of Carleton with two parts of
the ferry and boat and the appurtenances in Carleton, Langle, Bergh,
Thurton, Assheby and Claxton, in the hundred of Lodne. 12 December,
25 Henry VI. Seal.

[Page 229]


[Norf.]

A. 7851. Feoffment by Alice Derlynge dwelling in Norman Spital,
Norwich, to John Kyng of Ormesby, Alice his wife and Robert their son of
½a. arable in 'le lyttelfeld' of Ormesby. Ormesby, Wednesday, Midsummer
day, 12 Henry IV. Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 7852. Letter of attorney by same to William Davy to deliver
seisin to same of same. Norwich, Thursday after Midsummer day,
12 Henry IV.



[Norf.]

A. 7853. Feoffment by Nicholas son of Simon Slyngge of Ormesby
to John de Ormesby, knight, of 2d. rent due from the said Sir John for a
piece of land there called 'Emmotes half aker.' Tuesday before St.
Augustine, 9 Edward II.



[Norf.]

A. 7854. Feoffment by John Jory of Bokenhamfery and John
Treman of Hasyngham the elder to Robert Byrdysdale of Bokenham
aforesaid Nicholas Wellys of Strumpeshagh and John Sproute of
Hasyngham of a messuage, croft, 3a. arable and an alder bed in
Bokenhamfery, position, &c. described, which together with Nicholas
Heryng and Nicholas Cowper, since deceased, they had by the feoffment of
Richard Jory of Bokenhamfery, since deceased, dated 20 October,
37 Henry VI:

Also feoffment by the said John Jory to the same of 1a. 1 rood land
called 'Gravelond,' described, which together with the said Nicholas
Cowper and Robert Sprygy, since deceased, he had by the feoffment of
William Lyghtfoot, late deceased, dated Monday before the Nativity of St.
John the Baptist, 2 Edward IV:

Also feoffment by same to same of 2a. 3 roods land in Bokenham field,
described, which together with the said Cowper and Sprygy he had by the
feoffment of the said Lyghtfoot, Monday after St. George, 3 Edward IV:
to hold by 12d. rent at Michaelmas yearly. Witnesses. Dated Monday
after St. Martin in winter, 2 Henry VII.



[Norf.]

A. 7855. Release by Robert atte Northous of Ormesby to Henry
parson of St. Mary of Burgh in Fleg of his right in the manors of
Burgh called Stalham Halle and Vaux Halle, and in the manors of Stratton
by Hevyngham and Frethorp called Morhalle, which together with William
Wychyngham, knight, Reginald de Eccles and Hugh Fastolf he had by the
feoffment of William Clere. Witnesses:—John de Mauteby, knight,
Thomas de Berneye, knight and others (named). Ormesby, Monday after
St. Nicholas, 2 Richard II. Seal, broken.



[Norf.]

A. 7856. Counterpart of feoffment by Thomas de Hemenhale parson
of Wynterton, Geoffrey de Somerton and Robert atte Northous to Denise
(Dyonise), late the wife of William Clere of Ormesby, of the manors of
Burgh called Vausehalle and Stalhamhalle and the manor of Frethorp
called Morhalle for the term of her life while chaste and sole. Witnesses:—
John Mauteby, knight, John son of Nicholas Fastolf and others (named).
Ormesby, Wednesday after St. Lucy the Virgin, 8 Richard II. Seal.
French.



Norf.

A. 7857. Feoffment by Henry Heydon, knight, son and heir of John
Heydon to Philip Calthorpp, esquire, James Hobert, Richard Southwell,
William Gurney, John Heydon, Robert Southwell, John Barley S.T.D.
and Thomas Wymer, clerk, of the manor of Ormesby, the advowson of
Wynterton and of the chapel of Est Somerton and of lands &c. in Ormesby,
Hemmesby, Scrowby, Wynterton, Maudeby, Filby, Runham, Clepisby,
Somerton, Horssey, Yermouth, Martham and Castre in Flegge, co. Norfolk,
which the said John Heydon, together with Reginald Rous, Simon
[Page 230]
Briggegate, clerk, Thomas Arnold, William Bonde and John Marsham,
deceased, whom he survived, had by the feoffment of Robert Clere the elder,
esquire, since deceased; attorneys to deliver seisin Edward Andreus and
William Haye. Ormesby, 25 March, 8 Henry VII. Witnesses. Seal.



[Surrey.]

A. 7858. Feoffment by William le Gaunter of Rutherhuth to Adam
de Aldeham of a curtilage in Rutherhuth between the tenement of Master
Hamo the physician (fisici) on the west and the said Adam's tenement on
the east, the highway on the south and the curtilage of Gregory de Rokesle
on the north; rendering 1d. at Michaelmas and to the rector of Ruther-
hithe church and his successors 5d. quarterly and a cock and hen at
Christmas, and the man and woman bringing that rent shall have their
meal (prandium) that day at the rector's house, and finding a man for the
rector for one day in autumn for the autumn works, for whom the rector
shall find three meals a day: consideration 16s. in gersum. Witnesses,
Stephen Pikerun and others (named).



[Surrey.]

A. 7859. Letter of attorney by John atte Felde of London, fish-
monger, to Richard Bartelmew to deliver seisin to Stephen de Preston of
4s. rent from a messuage which was John de la Gare's in Retherhith.
London, Wednesday after the Nativity of St. John Baptist, 10 Edward II.
Fragment of seal of arms.



[Surrey.]

A. 7860. Feoffment by Richard le Zounge of Haveryng atte Boure,
co. Essex, and Sarah his wife to John Shotiere and Alice his wife of a
cottage and garden in the parish of St. Mary of Rethurhethe near the
city of London, between the tenement and garden of Robert Bernereue on
the east, the land John le Baker then held of the prior and convent of
Bermundeseie and the said John le Shotiere's garden on the west, the land
of Sir Richard Vyncent, rector of the church of St. Osith (Scite) London, on
the south and the highway on the north. Dated at Rethurhuth, Friday the
feast of the Annunciation, 25 Edward III. Fragments of seals.



Surrey.

A. 7861. Chirograph, being a demise by Stephen de Preston, citizen
of London, to Sarah de Rokesle late the wife of William de Rokesle, late
citizen of London, for the term of her life of the lands, &c. which he had
by her demise in the parishes of Retherhuth and St. Mary Magdalen
of Bermundesey, co. Surrey. Witnesses. Sunday after St. James the
Apostle, 2 Edward II. See A. 7868.



[Surrey.]

A. 7862. Sale by Sarah de Rokesle late the wife of William de Rokesle,
late citizen of London, to Stephen de Preston, citizen of London, of all her
goods, stock &c. in the parishes of Retherhuthe and St. Mary Magdalen
of Bermundsey. London, St. Barnabas' day, 1 Edward II. Seal.




A. 7863. Counterpart of A. 7861. Seal, broken.



[Surrey.]

A. 7864. Feoffment by Cristina and Margery daughters and heirs
of William le Rus to Gregory de Rokele and Avice his wife in survivorship
and their heirs of a place of land called 'Slede' in Retherheth with the
bank (walla) belonging to it against the Thames; boundaries described;
rendering 1d. at Michaelmas for all service; consideration 20s.
One seal.



[Surrey.]

A. 7865. Indenture of demise by the prior, John de Cusancia, and
convent of St. Saviour's Bermundeseye to Tydemann Lymbergh, merchant of
Almain and Geoffrey de Wychingham, citizen and mercer of London, of land
in 'la Breche' in the parish of Retherhethe, together with a piece of land
there recently entered upon and enclosed by Richard Vynsent, with waters
[Page 231]
fisheries and rents and services of the said prior's tenants in 'la Breche'; to
hold for the term of the life of the said Tydemann and five years over;
witnesses. Friday the feast of St. Ambrose the bishop, 22 Edward III.
Fragment of conventual seal.

Endorsed: . . . . de maresco vocato la Breche . . . .



[Norf.]

A. 7866. Feoffment by Eufemia late the wife of Stephen de
Somerton in her widowhood to Henry Gamel and Beatrice his wife of
1½ rood land in Scrouteby field. Witnesses:—Roger de Ormesby and
others (named).



[Essex.]

A. 7867. Release by Maud daughter of John King, spinster, to
Roger Prodome and Katharine his wife of her right in a tenement formerly
Roger le Kyng's in Borham. Seal, effaced.



[Essex.]

A. 7868. Feoffment by Humphrey, duke of Buckingham Thomas,
bishop of Ely, Henry, viscount Burgchiere, knight, John Hampton,
Richard Wallere and Thomas Stones, esquires, Peter Arden, Richard Rich,
citizen and mercer of London, John Grene of Wydyton, Thomas —,
William Goodynge and William Gorffen to Joan Child, widow, of Wittham,
Robert Downe, esquire, Thomas Grene, John Debynham the elder, Thomas
Warner, Robert Bryd and Richard Squiere of Wittham, of a toft and garden
in Borham, anciently called 'Dassches' now 'Bruers,' between the
highway from Wittham to Chelmesford, a croft of Margaret Segges,
and 'Boreham ponde;' also four crofts of arable, boundaries described,
lying dispersed in Boreham with a certain moor (mora) of pasture adjacent,
and 2a. 3 roods of meadow; all which, jointly with Richard Aired of
Boreham, since deceased, they had, together with other lands, by the
feoffment of Thomas Hill of Badowe and Thomas Gayll of Sabrythford.
Copy.



[Surrey.]

A. 7869. Release by Richard Touorthe of Bermundeseye to Stephen
de Preston, corder, citizen of London, of his right in 1d. quit rent from the
said Stephen's garden in Retherhethe which Gregory de Rokesle and Avice
his wife formerly had by his feoffment. Monday, the Invention of the
Holy Cross, 9 Edward II. Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 7870. Indenture between John de Leem of the one part and Ellen
late the wife of Henry Rose of the other; reciting that the said John had
sued his parceners (participes) Geoffrey Wyth and Isabel his wife, the said
Ellen, Robert Trenchemer and Alice his wife and Nicholas 'in the Wyllyges'
and Ellen his wife, in the king's court, to permit him to present a fit
person to the church of Burgh St. Mary in Fleg, and had recovered the
said presentation by their default; agreement between the said John and
Ellen that, the said judgment and recovery notwithstanding, he should
present at the next turn, and she at the one after. Stalham, Thursday
after St. Barnabas, 4 Edward III. Seal of arms obliterated (? a saltire
engrailed).



Middx.

A. 7871. Feoffment by William le Schephyrde of Nesdone, to John
de Middeltone, citizen of London, of a piece of land in Willesdon, co.
Middlesex, in Biry field, between land of the said John and of John de la
Stokke and the highway called 'Crucestrate.' Sunday after St. Peter and
St. Paul, Apostles, 15 Edward II. Seal.



[Surrey.]

A. 7872. Indenture being a feoffment by Peter Sarrang of
Bermundesey to John Bauderi, fishmonger of London, of a piece of
meadow, described, which he had by the demise of the late William le
Boteler in the parish of St. Mary Magdalen of Bermundesey, in exchange
[Page 232]
for an acre and a piece of meadow formerly John le Luminor's, the said acre
being in the parish of St. Mary of Retherhuth in Shitenhale meadow and
the said piece of meadow in a place called Attegore; rent, a clove gillyflower.
Witnesses:—John de Pyrele, then bailiff of Bermundesey, and others
(named). Seal.



[Bedf.]

A. 7873. Release by Robert de Broi, by hair from his head placed on
the altar, and by Walter his son in person, to Ramsey abbey, of their claim
to Crawley. Printed in 'Cart. Monast. de Rameseia,' vol. I. p. 257.



Norf.

A. 7874. Letter of attorney by Simon Briggate, clerk, and Thomas
Arnald of Rollesby to John Kendale and Thomas Beryngton to deliver
seisin to Edmund Clere, John Hastyngges, Philip Wentworth, Thomas
Sharneborne, John Blakeneye and John Jernegan, esquires, and William
Boondes of the manors of Burgh, co. Norfolk, called 'Vaushalle' and
'Stalhamhalle.' 20 October, 28 Henry VI. Seals.



Norf.

A. 7875. Feoffment by Simon Brygate, clerk, and Thomas Arnald
of Rollesby to Edmund Clere and others, as in A. 7874, of the said
manors of Burgh, which together with William Paston of Paston and
John Smethe, clerk, since deceased, they had by the gift of the
said Edmund, son of John, son of William Clere of Ormesby, esq. the
elder. Witnesses:—John Fastolf and Miles Stapilton, knights, John
Clippesby, esq. John Berkyng, Nicholas Pekeryng. 20 October,
28 Henry VI. Seals, one broken.



Middx.

A. 7876. Letter of attorney by Robert Curson, otherwise called
Betele, citizen and mercer of London, to Thomas Spark, mercer, to deliver
seisin to John Middelton and Richard Bures, citizens and mercers of
London, of a moiety of a messuage, 500a. land, 10a. meadow, 30a. wood
and 26s. 8d. rent in Willesdon and Hendon. 22 November, 11 Henry IV.
Seal.



[Essex.]

A. 7877. Feoffment by Robert Porter and William Smyth of
Borham to John Pyrie of Ronewell of lands &c. in Borham which they had
by the feoffment of John Pyrie his father; also of a field there called
Cherchefeld which they had by the feoffment of Lawrence Clerk, John
Bole and Richard Gygel. Thursday before the Annunciation, 7 Richard II.
One seal, broken.



[Essex.]

A. 7878. Release by Thomas Bryd of Borham to John Pyrie of
Ronewell of his right in the lands and tenements in Borham whereof John
Pyrie father of the said John enfeoffed him together with William Creket,
Robert Porter and William Smyth, except all the lordship which he ought
of right to have in a croft of land called Crauenhocroft; also release of his
right in a field of land called Cherchefeld in Borham. Friday the feast of
the Annunciation, 7 Richard II.



[N'hamp.]

A. 7879. Feoffment by Philip Francton of Schopes to William
Cook and Thomas Sclatier of 8a. arable and ½a. meadow in Helydene fields.
Tuesday before St. Andrew the Apostle, 20 Richard II.



[Surrey.]

A. 7880. Indenture being a settlement out of court between William
de Blicheburgo of the one part and William de Rokesle and Sarah his wife
of the other of a suit touching a ditch between their premises. Rether-
hithe, Thursday after St. Gregory, 25 Edward I.



[Leic.]

A. 7881. Indenture tripartite between the prior, John, and convent
of Lewes, to whom the church of Melton Mouubray was appropriated, the
prior, William, and convent of Monks Kyrkeby, late portionists in the said
[Page 233]
church, and the master and brethren of the hospital of Burton St. Lazars,
owners of certain mills in Melton; reciting that disputes had arisen
between the predecessors of the said prior of Kyrkeby and the masters of
the said hospital touching the tithes, parcel of the said portion, arising
from the said mills; and that an agreement was come to that the said
masters should pay half a mark yearly to the said priors of Kyrkeby in
respect of the said mills; and reciting that Maurice late prior of Kyrkeby
and the convent there had granted the said portion to the said prior and
convent of Lewes for a yearly payment of 6 marks; agreement between all
the parties that the said master and brethren should pay the said half mark
yearly to the said prior and convent of Lewes and be quit of all payment to
the prior and convent of Kyrkeby.



[Berks.]

A. 7882. Feoffment by William Paris to Adam de Argoges for his
service of two virgates of land in Offynton which James de Offynton
formerly held of him. Witnesses:—Alan de Farenham and Nicholas de
Lusteshull, knights, William parson of Offynton and others (named).



[Middx.]

A. 7883. Release by Beatrice Derman late the wife of Thomas Heyne
of Kyngesbury, widow, to Thomas de Middelton son of the late John de
Middelton of the parish of Willesdon of her dower in a croft in
Willesden which the said Thomas Heyne gave to the said John and he
to his son the said Thomas. Witnesses:—John de Middelton, John
Roberd and others (named). Sunday after Easter, 9 Edward III.
Seal effaced and broken.



Hunt.

A. 7884. Eelease by Margaret Cuckowe late the wife of John
Cuckowe, of Perye, to Robert Bolton of the same, of her right in a
messuage in 'le Estende' there which he lately had by the feoffment of
Thomas Cuckowe her son. 9 January, 8 Edward IV. Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 7885. Indenture between Elizabeth Clere of the one part and
Ralph Shelton, esq. of the other, being the defeasance of his bond to
her of even date in 1,000l. viz. that if, in the event of the death without
issue of Robert her son and heir apparent in her life time, neither she nor
her feoffees were disturbed during her life, or afterwards during a term
to be appointed by her last will, in the possession of the manors &c.
which belonged to Robert Clere, esq. her late husband or to Thomas
Ovdale her father whose heir she was, by the said Ralph or Margaret
her daughter whom he was about to wed, the bond should be void.
24 January, 7 Edward IV. Seal.



[Essex.]

A. 7886. Feoffment by Richard Bernard of Borham to John
Peyntour of the same of his free lands (terras liberas) to take effect on
his decease. Borham, Saturday the feast of St. Denis, 46 Edward III.
Seal effaced.



[Glouc.]

A. 7887. Letters patent of Theobald de Verdoun ordering his
tenants doing suit to the manor and hundred of Byselegh to be
intendent to Sir Hugh le Despenser the elder, to whom he had granted
the said manor with the advowson and his part of the said hundred.
Lambeth, Wednesday before St. Simon and St. Jude, 7 Edward [I].
Fragment of seal.



Berks.

A. 7888. Feoffment by Roger Walden, archbishop of Canterbury and
Papal legate, and John Walden, esquire, his brother, to King Richard of two
messuages, a mill, 140a. land, 16a. meadow and 40a. pasture in Esthenrith,
co. Berks, which they had by the grant of John Sudbery of Wantynge by
fine levied in the octave of the Purification in the 20th year of the said
[Page 234]
king. Witnesses:—William Sturmy and John Roches, knights, Lawrence
Drew, Thomas Chelrey and Edmund Sparsholt. Stevyngton, 12 April,
22 Richard [II]. Seals of arms, broken.



[Essex.]

A. 7889. Feoffment of Richard Peyntour of Bockyngg to John Crips
and Helena his wife and his heirs of two crofts in the town of Borham
between land of . . . . . on the one side and . . . . 'le Bole,'
one head abutting on the lane from Crowenhotye towards the land of
Richard Bernard and the other head on the lane called 'Sagoresheystrate.'
Sunday the feast of St. Thomas the Archbishop and Martyr, 7 Edward III.
Seal effaced.



[Middx.]

A. 7890. Feoffment by Thomas Cole of Wilesdone to John de
Middeltone, citizen of London, of la. 1 rood land in the parish of St. Mary of
Wilesdone in Longgefeld. Thursday after Easter, 2 Edward II. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 7891. Feoffment of Thomas Cole of Willesdon son of the late
John Cole of the same to John de Middelton, citizen of London, of a piece
of meadow in a croft called 'le Longefeld,' and a piece of arable called
'le Forlond.' Willesdon, 4 March, 35 Edward I. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 7892. Release by Alice atte Stocke daughter of William atte
Stocke of Wilesdone to John de Middelton, citizen of London, of 1d. rent he
paid her for land in Wilesdone parish. Friday the feast of St. Katherine
the Virgin, 24 Edward I. Seal, broken.



[Middx.]

A. 7893. Feoffment by Thomas le Hackere to John de Middelton of
a half acre of arable in Scheperode field in the parish of St. Mary of
Willesdon, between land of William Roberd &c. Sunday before the
Ascension, 3 Edward II. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 7894. Feoffment by Thomas Cole of Willesdon son of the late
John Cole to John de Middelton, citizen of London, of 2½a. arable and
½a. meadow in the town and parish of Willesdon in a field called
'le Longefeld.' Wednesday after St. John before the Latin gate,
A.D. 1307. Seal.



[Essex.]

A. 7895. Feoffment by Richard Bernard of Borham to John
Peyntour of the same of a croft containing one acre and a half in the town
of Borham between land of the abbot and convent of Waltham Holy Cross
on the one side and the road from Chelmersforde to Great Leighs on the
other; also of another croft there between land of John le Duk and the
green lane from Richard le Crips' house to the wood of Sagorishey.
Saturday before St. Luke, 46 Edward III.



[N'hamp.]

A. 7896. Renunciation by William de Walda, rector of the church of
Langeport and of Faxton, of the appeal he interposed from the sentence
whereby Elyas, prior of Westminster and master William de Purle, judges
delegated by pope Honorius III (W. archdeacon of London their fellow
judge excusing himself), condemned him to pay to the prior and monks of
Lewes 40s. yearly while he lived and held the church of Faxton, for two
parts of the tithe of sheaves from the demesne of Ingeram de Dumart[in].



[Kent.]

A. 7897. Feoffment by John Smeht son of Thomas Denys of
Prestone to John de Prestone of la. land in Prestone hundred between land
of Henry Coc toward the 'souht' and the common path going to the mill
of Dame Juliana de Leybourne towards the 'norht,' the path leading from
Helewardone at Doune towards the 'east' and land of the heirs of John
le Frode towards the 'west'; for this gift &c. made and recorded in the
[Page 235]
month of August, 20 Edward II, the said John gave him 14s. in
gersum. Witnesses:—John ate Doune of Preston and others (named).
Seal.



[Kent.]

A. 7898. Indenture made Sunday before St. Dunstan, 6 Edward III,
being a feoffment by Adam son of John le Frode to John de Preston son of
Walter de Welles of a messuage and 7½a. ½ rood land in Preston and
Elmerestun together with four bushels of barley of yearly farm arising from
1½ rood land which John le Mous held at Shitestrete next land of Stephen
Chike, and together with a cottage at Shitestrete, which Elias Morkoc held;
which messuage lay at Peadebrok between the stream separating the
demesnes of Preston and Elmerstun toward the 'suth' and the demesne
land of Preston towards the north, and the land lay part next the said
messuage, la. 1 rood in Elmerstun between land of Sir William de Clinton
towards the 'east' and land of the heirs of John de Pedebrok towards
the 'west,' and 3½a. lay dispersed (jacent per loca) at Doune; to hold the said
messuage and land, farm, and a rent of two hens and the cottage, &c. all
which would come to him by inheritance on the death of the said John his
father and Joan his wife, and Stephen le Frode his uncle, rendering there-
fore to the said Adam during his life 3s. yearly. See A. 7902, the
counterpart.



[Kent.]

A. 7899. Release by William Stonhard and Walter Stonhard to John
de Prestone of their right in 1½ virgate land and a house thereon in the
hundred of Preston next Houndepette. Prestone, IV Kal. Aug. 9
Edward III. Seals.



[Kent.]

A. 7900. Feoffment by William de Hauekeslonde son of Master
Walter de Wenderton to John son of Walter de Preston of a marsh called
Pirihope in the parish of Preston next Wyngeham between the marsh
belonging to the manor of Preston on the 'suth,' 'north' and 'west' and
the Stour (Landsturam) on the 'east'; for this gift, &c. made and recorded
28 February, 2 Edward III, the said John gave him 8 marks 40d. in gersum.
Fragment of seal.







      

  


  

  
    
      PreviousTable of contentsNext
  


      
      

    

  

  
      
      
        
              
  
    
      
            


      
  

    
                      
    Footer menu
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Help
              
          
        About the project
              
          
        Terms of use
              
          
        Privacy and Cookies
              
          
        Accessibility
              
        
  


  


  
    
      
            Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London


      
  


        
      
    
  

  










