











Cecil Papers: February 1608, 16-28 | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


Calendar of the Cecil Papers in Hatfield House










Cecil Papers: February 1608, 16-28










Calendar of the Cecil Papers in Hatfield House: Volume 20, 1608. 


Originally published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1968.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. Public Domain. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




'Cecil Papers: February 1608, 16-28', in Calendar of the Cecil Papers in Hatfield House: Volume 20, 1608, ed.  M S Giuseppi,  G Dyfnallt Owen (London,  1968), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/cal-cecil-papers/vol20/pp70-96 [accessed 3 July 2026].





'Cecil Papers: February 1608, 16-28', in Calendar of the Cecil Papers in Hatfield House: Volume 20, 1608. Edited by   M S Giuseppi,  G Dyfnallt Owen (London,  1968), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/cal-cecil-papers/vol20/pp70-96.





"Cecil Papers: February 1608, 16-28". Calendar of the Cecil Papers in Hatfield House: Volume 20, 1608. Ed.  M S Giuseppi,  G Dyfnallt Owen (London, 1968), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/cal-cecil-papers/vol20/pp70-96.














Keyword Highlight

Search






Footnotes



February 1608, 16-28






[The Earl of Salisbury] to the Archbishop of York



1607–8, Feb. 16.

When I consider the great cause you have to be
grieved, as well out of natural as Christian considerations, I should
wrong myself if I should not express unto you how much I suffer with
you, professing one and the same religion as you do, and having made
both the world and yourself know that I esteem of you as of my very
good friend; this being an addition of trouble to my mind that, when I
write to you how well I wish you, I must at the same time let you
know I cannot help you. For although you might very well have
appealed unto me among other of your good friends if your son, full of
good moral qualities, should not only have been suffered to run the
fortune of many for recusancy but have been worse used than any,
(your merit, his youth and your friends considered); yet I am persuaded,
when you shall understand that he has so wholly given himself over to
the Church of Rome as he will not take the oath of allegiance, whatsoever you may think of your misfortune, you will yet suspend any
doubtful construction of your friends among the which I was one, when
the young gentleman lately presented himself to the Council and received
his Majesty's pleasure, which was that in regard of his gracious respect
to you he should have liberty to travel where otherwise by the law he
was to undergo the penalty of the premunire, after he should be indicted.
So as. my Lord, although I will not dispute whether you have reason
to be more grieved with his transportation than his restraint, yet will
I conclude that were he my son I would rather leave it to God's providence what may work in him, where he may see all other parts of the
world with some contentment saving his native country, than suffer him
to be enclosed within stone walls, where he shall see no more of his
native country than is contained within a prison.—From the Court at
Whitehall, 16. Feb. 1607.

Draft. Endorsed: "Copie from my Lo[rd] to the Archbishop of York
about the banisshment of his sonne." 2 pp. (120 76.)




Sir Henry Townshend to the Earl of Salisbury



[1607–8,] Feb. 16.

I received your letters at this my sitting at Chester
in the behalf of Mr Rondell Bruerton and your servant Mr Bruerton,
who were plaintiffs, against one Mr Gravener before me in the Exchequer
for title of commons. The matter I heard at large, and in the end I
settled the possession with Mr Bruerton, and so dismissed the title to the
common law. But yet upon my motion interim they have referred the
cause to be mediated by two gentlemen, to order if they can. There were
threescore causes in the book of hearing which I have heard and ordered,
besides many rules, at this my sitting, and now are in the midst of our
[Page 071]
(sic) service for the county of Chester, where we find not very much
doing but the country quiet. So ever presuming [holograph from here]
your Lordship to be my chief patron, so long I serve his Majesty truly,
[I] humbly take my leave.—From Chester, this 16th of February.

Signed. Seal Endorsed: "1607." ½ p. (120 77.)




Henry Lok to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 16.

This term being now ended, and my law suit stayed,
I renew my former request to go into the Low Countries, as well to see
and comfort my sons as to shun peril and conceal wants.—16 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. ½ p. (124 92.)




Advertisements



1607–8, Feb. 16/26.

From Couloigne, 26 Feb. 1608. Our ordinary
advices from Vienna report others from Possonia to the effect that the
Archduke Matthias had had the proposition made in the Diet there, and
has been present in person in the Assembly and Council to resolve upon
and give order for what shall be necessary. His Highness gives each
one prompt audience, but the Haydugges continue always obstinate,
that is to say, if they are not given all the satisfaction heretofore
promised them, they will pursue their object with their friends and
allies the Turks, and will attack and devastate the territories of the
Emperor. It is feared therefore that the last disasters will be worse than
the first.




I hear from Praage of the arrival there of Prince Louys of Anhalt
and the Duke of Teschin, who has presented his Imperial Majesty with
two fine Turkish horses. The cause of their arrival is not yet known.
The Duke of Braunswick is also expected there, and his lodging is being
prepared.




I am informed also by private letters from the said Prague that the
Pope's Nuncio was treating in great secrecy with the Emperor's
councillors over certain matters, and that the Bishops of Wirtzbourch,
Bambergh, Auguste and Ratisbon were in constant correspondence
with him. What it is all about, time will inform us.




Nothing has yet been concluded at the Diet of Ratisbon. The
Emperor persists in his demand for 4000 horse and 20,000 foot soldiers,
but it is not known what will be granted his Majesty. It is thought that
the conduct of the Diet will be regulated in accordance with the progress
of the peace in Holland.




From Germany the deaths of the Dukes Ferdinand of Bavaria and of
Wirtenberch from apoplexy are confirmed. The Duke of Wirtenberch
has a son old enough to rule. From what I can learn, his studies have
been sufficient. It is also said that Dominus Pistorius will die a similar
death.




We are advised from Strasbourch that their new Bishop, the Archduke Leopold, has taken the oath to the said town, and the town, on
the other hand, to his Highness, who behaved very amiably and
offered himself altogether to their service.




It is much feared hereabouts that the ice which must come down from
the Upper Rhine will still do much harm as has happened already at
Duysseldorf, Nuys and elsewhere, on account of the mass and force of
[Page 072]
the ice which has lately come out of the Moselle and Nider Rhyn.
Moreover, in two places below this town, the Rhine has overflowed its
banks and inundated some fields and good lands and meadows, which
occasions much complaint from the poor peasants. Their grievances are
increased by the daily rise in price of the lenten meats and grains.




The merchants here, seeing the frosts continue and that perhaps the
rivers will not be open before Lent, are now taking to loading wagons
with their goods to be taken to Francfort fair.



From Rome, 9 Feb. 1608.

The Council of this town had resolved to
put a new tax of 4½ "juli" upon wines sold by innkeepers towards the
repair of the damage caused by the inundation of the Tiber; but the
Pope's demand from the Roman people of a contribution of 100,000
crowns for the same purpose has led to the appointment of eight gentlemen to take resolution thereupon.




It is said that the Catholic King, after having modified the costs and
expenses of his Court, has also put down the provisions which he has
been accustomed to pay in Flanders, amounting to more than 300,000
crowns. On the other hand, the King of France has increased his
extraordinary provisions this year to over 200,000 francs, those of the
Court alone exceeding 40,000 crowns per annum.




By an extraordinary letter from the King of Spain to the Grand
Duke, we understand that the nomination to the church of Valencia has
cost the brother of Don Philippe de Tassis 20,000 crowns, and that on
the 24th January the oath will be administered to the young Prince.




At Leghorn some boats are being armed, but with what object it is
unknown. In addition to this, the Grand Duke is making extraordinary
provisions of victuals and instruments of war.




Mutineers from Flanders have arrived here, who complain greatly of
the bad treatment they received in the Archduke's lands there.




In the Kingdom of Naples 9000 foot and 3000 horse are to be levied,
the Viceroy having sent for Don Antonio Mendozze, a soldier of great
experience, back again. On the other hand, a great number of soldiers
are also being levied amongst the Milanese.




We hear from France that the ceremonies of the Knights of the Holy
Ghost (St Esprit) have taken place in the presence of the King, and that
it has been ordained that from henceforth none but native Frenchmen
shall be received into the Order.




From Venice, 15th ditto. They write from Milan that Fuentes had
sent two couriers into Spain upon business of his own, and that the
Most Christian King was treating for the marriage of the Prince of
Piedmont with the eldest daughter of Tuscany, and for the assignment
to her in dower of Bressia.




From Constantinople we are advised that the rebels of Natolia had
occupied, sacked and burnt the town of Bursia, two days' journey from
Constantinople, and had killed several Turks and Jews there. The
Grand Turk has in consequence ordered all male (?masques) persons
who are able to bear arms, to put themselves in order to go against the
said enemy, and has also had three Bassas beheaded. On account of
this, and also because infection continues to spread there, there is a
great falling off in trade.

[Page 073]



We hear also from France that the King has proclaimed that his
subjects shall no longer trade in Africa and Barbary, in consequence
of the capture and plundering by the Turks of some ships on their way
to Marseilles.




On the other hand, those of Tunis, Algiers and other places have
taken prisoners and enslaved all the French whom business brought
there, and were instigated to this the more because the said King had
had taken to Marseilles all the goods found in the ship Saderina.




The Duke of Savoy has sent a gentleman into Spain to make the
King acquainted with the cause of the imprisonment of the Sieurs
d'Albigni and Roncatie.




From Genoa they write that they have had advice from Spain that
the King was willing to modify the decree published heretofore, and to
this end to tell those interested that he was willing to give them a
note of all their credit. But the discovery at last that his Majesty's
debts were far greater than they had supposed, has caused them to be
molested afresh.




We have also letters from Turin, which report that the company of
one hundred horse led by Mons. d'Albigni has been disbanded by order
of the Duke there, and all his family put in prison. Le Roncatie has
been publicly beheaded at Turin, and the Count Gyudo San George has
been appointed the new Governor of Savoy.




On Saturday passed into the better life Sr Ant°. Querini. His good
qualities cause general grief at his death.

French. 4 pp. (194 122.)




France and the United Provinces



1607–8, Feb. 17/27.

Contemporary extracts from the ratification
by the French King of his league with the United Provinces; and from
the ratification by the United Provinces of the same league.—Paris,
27 Feb. 1608, and later dates.

French. 2¼ pp. (115 72.)




Sir Robert Yaxley to the Earl of Salisbury



[1607–8, Feb. 17.]

Once more to trouble your Lordship with these
few lines. I am out of employment or hope of any. I have lived as
long as I can of my humble means, which now begin to fail. I would not
tell you so were I not confident of your worthy respects towards all
such as either have had, have or may have any worth in them. You
may easily do me good, you can never do for a more thankful man, and
one that may live to deserve it towards you or yours. "My thinks" I
hear you ask why I only seek you thus? I must confess truly I can seek
no man else; yet if this offend, it is my last. Undated.

Signed. Endorsed: "17 Feb. 1607." ⅓ p. (120 81.)




Lord Cobham to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 17.

I have formerly entreated Mr Lieutenant to move
you to favour me touching the 100l Dr Foster had of me, to have gone
with me to the Spawe, by whom I understood you held my request reasonable and promised me furtherance, for which I thank you. I will set
[Page 074]
down the reasons why I ask this money. The Doctor I was never acquainted with but a fortnight before my commitment. In that time he was
but thrice with me. The 100l he received upon the Thursday; the
Friday following I was committed. I was to provide horses for him and
his servant, his charges both going and coming I was to bear, and he
to return by "Bartelmutid" (Bartholomewtide); so that he was at no
charge in the world. The time of year was then unfit to give physic, so
he lost nothing; but my promise to him was that he should return by
Bartholomewtide, because he might lose no patients nor his gain. When
I asked him, before Mr Lieutenant, if that I had been in statu quo
prius, whether he would have denied me the money, his answer was that
I was then great, and he durst not have stood with me; so you see it is
my fall, not the equity of the cause, that makes him deny me. My state
I forget not. I know I cannot claim this, for I have lost all. The King
is gracious, and I presume of your favour, and protest you shall do a
deed of charity, for my sickness and pains increase upon me, and so
my charge.—From the Tower, 17 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. Signed: H. Brooke. 1 p. (193 72.)




The Earl of Salisbury to Sir Roger Aston



[1607–8, Feb. 18.]

Although I said to his Majesty at his departure
that I would forbear to write except there were necessary occasion,
which I did because I make it a conscience [?not] to cumber him there
with letters, when he has been here overpressed with business, and left
behind him such directions as do rather require execution than new
consultation; yet I never meant to bind my hands from writing to some
about him, if it were but to tell him how much I love him as well as
how much I fear him. And therefore let this be the first preface of my
letter, that you do kiss his hand from me as from him that desires no
breath to respire after him, nor shall take pleasure to live longer than
when I find myself thirst to please him. Next, let him see this enclosed
which I received from Mons. Caron, and tell his Majesty that the Commissioners of both sides have been so peremptory upon the question
mentioned in the letter, as for five or six days all has stood at a stay.
All which notwithstanding, I assure myself the difficulties will be
accommodated now the business is so far onward, whereof we shall
shortly hear further when the Commissioners send us answer to the last
dispatch, which the north-east wind kept long from arrival there.
Plato's scholars repeated their master's precepts to the best of their
memory, and what has been done of matter of depopulation, with the
conclusion of the bargain for Farnham, going on with the loan, and
divers other things, the Master of the Requests and Sir Thomas Lake
(who will take their journey tomorrow) will relate, which will be more
sensible than anything I can write. Of the matters concerning the mine,
our care is now to be sure that all things may be ready for a perfect
trial of the ore, which cannot now be long on the way, considering where
the wind has been these two days. For which purpose we have assembled
all the Commissioners, and taken so good order as it shall be no sooner
arrived but we will fall to sever the ore from all other dross, and then
shall we see what will be the goodness thereof in the refining; wherein
[Page 075]
although of ten tons we expect not five tons of ore, yet by that five tons
sufficient judgment will be made of the nature of all the ore that can be
hereafter gathered; for though I doubt not but the mine will yield us
many a thousand ton of ore, yet the medium of this will little vary
from the rest. Of which all that I will write for the present shall be this,
that whosoever speaks most considerately or sparingly of it will confess
ere many months that Scotland has yielded us the richest mine that
ever was discovered in Europe. Would God I had not cause to say that it
has also yielded the wisest King and the best master in Christendom,
for then should I less groan than I do under the burthen of gratitude
for those infinite favours which can never be deserved.

Draft. Endorsed: "1607, Feb. 18. Minute to Sir Roger Aston."
7½ pp. (120 82.)




Sir George Carew to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 18.

These gentlemen, Mr Maynard and Mr Bowyer, at
their coming into France, brought me a letter from you in their commendation, which has made me have the greater eye upon them. I
must give them my testimony of their discreet and respectful carriage.
I would have been glad to have given them any help in my power, both
for their own merit and also to give you assurance that I will hold everything very dear that shall come recommended from you.—Paris, 18 Feb.
1607.

Signed. Seal. Endorsed: "Sir Geo. Carew by young Maynard."
⅓ p. (120 86).




Sir Thomas Edmondes to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8. Feb. 18.

The packets from the Commissioners in Holland
addressed to the Archduke himself, so as the business is carried with
much secrecy. Secret means by all the United Provinces, save only
Holland and Zeeland, to insist upon the point of religion. Jealousies
against the Duke of Savoy. 900,000 crowns at Barcelona to be shipped
for Genoa, from thence to be transported into the Low Countries.
Tyrone with his wife ready to go towards Rome; advertisement from
thence touching his cause.

Abstract. (227 p. 343.)




The Adventure to Virginia



1607–8, Feb. 18.

"This 200 marks was paid to Sir Walter Cope the
18th of Feb. 1607, without any acquittance from him, for he promised
to procure an acquittance under the Treasurer's hand for the same, but
yet he hath delivered none. Teste me, J.B."

Endorsed: "Feb. 18, 1607. 33l: 6s; 8d paid to Sir W. Cope for adventure to Virginia." ½ p. (213 55.)




Viscount Lisle to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 19.

I send you here the discourse I told you of, which
truly I think worth your reading. When you have done with it, I
beseech you return it unto me. You shall find in it, my Lord, your
father's authority alleged how a prince may avoid an unfit contract.
[Page 076]
I will wait on you when you are at leisure, to satisfy myself in witnessing
unto you how much I acknowledge myself bound for your late noble
dealings with me.—At the Court, 19 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. Seal. 1 p. (120 87.)




Noel de Caron to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 19.

The suppliant, whose petition is enclosed, has been
long favourably known to him. And as he and his brother (who lives in
Spain) have been accused by one William Cannon to have trafficked in
Holland and Zeeland, though indeed they were natives of those Provinces, contrary to the truth, as Salisbury will find more fully by their
said petition; and as by his accusations they have sustained damage in
3000l sterling at least, he recommends their said petition, that they
may have justice against their accuser.—At South Lambeth, 19 Feb.
1607.

Holograph. French. Endorsed: "Sir Noel Caron recommending the
petition of John van Erpe." 1 p. (120 88.)




Raphe Dobbinson to the Privy Council



1607–8, Feb. 19.

For allowance for the maintenance of John
Thakwrey, committed to his custody.—19 Feb. 1607.

1 p. (P 850.)




Sir Roger Wilbraham to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 20.

This rainy day I moved his Majesty upon the
petition of Brian Gunter, to have his liberty upon surety till the cause
in the Star Chamber be appointed to be heard; the rather because
all examinations are taken and his learned counsel have many great
causes for him the next term, and this also a matter of great length.
His Majesty is very absolute to have it heard the next term, and where
I told him the matter might be somewhat obscure, he said it was a
plain cause by the daughter's confession after many examinations etc;
and says the deferring thereof is only his dishonour and it shall be no
longer deferred, and it was deferred the last term upon motion of the
counsel to the end it might be heard this next term; and now he expects
it to be heard, and the prisoner to remain as he does. I have no other
matter to write but of the King's good health, his remove to Newmarket on Monday, for here the ground is so soft there can be no
hunting. I never saw a less Court.—From Royston, 20 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. Seal, broken. ½ p. (120 89.)




Sir Thomas Lake to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 20.

It may please you to receive herewith a bundle of
letters in parchment for the merchants trading the East Indies, which
his Majesty signed since his being here. There is also the warrant for
the farmers' "bandes" (bonds) altered as the Lord Treasurer would have
it, which is that they should remain in the hands of such of his Majesty's
officers of the Exchequer as Mr Chancellor should appoint. And I
have sent also the letter touching the gaol in Westmorland, which is to
[Page 077]
be directed to the Countess of Cumberland and her daughter.—From
the Court at Royston, 20 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. Seal. ½ p. (120 90(1).




Edmond Gurney to the Earl of Salisbury, Chancellor of the
Older University (Senioris Academiae)



[1607–8] Feb. [20.]

Will never cease to implore Salisbury not to
allow him to be thought so unhappy, that when his presence promised so
near a hope of remedy, nothing else but his own folly had destroyed that
hope. It is said none ought to go away from the presence of a prince
sad; therefore, as he has endured to hear his plaint, let him not cease to
assist it. If he does not wish him well, will assuredly work him ill,
for to be condemned by his sentence would be more honourable than to
be neglected. Fears most lest others should be afraid, from his own example, to hope for his help. Earnestly prays his assistance.—"Datum
hoc mane Cinericio." (February 20.).

Holograph. Latin. Endorsed: "Feb. 1607." 2/3 p. (120 110.)




The Provost and Seniors of King's College,
Cambridge, to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 20.

Whereas it hath pleased you expressly to signify
a ready interest of gratifying some of our Society, by preferment unto
some ecclesiastical living in your gift, when any opportunity might be
found, we are bold to recommend the request of the bearer, Edward
Kellet, M.A., one of the Fellows, being a minister and for his sufficiency
in learning well approved among us, who has lately found out a certain
benefice with cure, now void, and depending on your disposition; which
though it be not of any great yearly value, yet seems to be of reasonable
competency to his contentment.—King's College, Cambridge, Feb. 20,
1607.

Signed; Ro. Goade, Provost; Richard Sutton, Vice-Provost; Henry
Banister; Umph. Tredwey; William Lisle, Robert Osbaston; Abraham
Bedel; Robert Warde; Richard Lancaster; Thomas Goade; Samuel
Collins.

1 p. (136 149.)




Advertisements from Germany



1607–8, Feb. 20/March 1.

From Prague, 1 March, 1608. We have as
yet no better advices from Ratisbon for the Emperor than the preceding ones. In all the sittings there the Ambassadors of the Protestants,
persist in their demands for the restoration of Dunawert to its first
state, and after seeing the letters written by the Hungarians to the
Princes and Estates of the Empire, they are confirmed in their opinion
that the Emperor ought to observe the treaties of agreement made with
the said Hungarians and those of peace made with the Turks, and even
to approve and ratify all that the Archduke Matthias has done at
Presbourg. If the said Ambassadors persist in these resolutions, it is to
be feared that the Diet will separate without producing any fruits.
The Archduke has sent off to Rome to have his actions justified, and it
is said that he will send also to Spain and to some other Princes upon
[Page 078]
the same subject. However, he has had the cavalry, which the Emperor
kept upon the frontier, paid and disbanded. It is said that he will
retain ten companies of it to be at the pay of the province of Austria.
Thus he follows up his first object and safeguards his affairs in those
quarters, without any preparations being seen here to retard his designs,
as if his assertion was believed that these designs had no other end than
the service of the Emperor.

French. ¾ p. (194 124.)




Sir Charles Cornwallis to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 21.

Having had this night a sharp fit of an ague, and
been enforced to keep my bed longer than ever I did since coming into
Spain, I find myself very unapt to write much.




I understand there is a navy here preparing with all speed, for which
purpose both the shipping of their own nation and of some others are
embargoed, the Biscayans forbidden this year to go to the Newfoundland or by any other means to employ their mariners. They publish an
intention of an enterprise for Argier (Algiers), but I rather imagine it
to be for Virginia, in regard that of late much inquiry has been made, as
I am informed, whether the planting there grows from the King or
from particular subjects, and whether his Majesty intends to guard the
goers thither with any of his own ships.




Money is here grown in appearance as scarce as ever; his Majesty
pays not his own subjects or others to whom he owes. For my poor
countrymen, after so many intolerable delays and so fresh promises of
immediate payment out of the chests here, I am answered by the
Treasurer that there is not a blank in his custody; and once again they
would assign us into Portugal to be paid upon spice, where well they
know there is neither spice nor money, and so have I plainly replied to
the Duke himself.




Their provinces and towns corporate here, understanding from their
procurators in this Parliament how far they have yielded to contributions, have, as I hear, disavowed them in it and sent them their protests
to the contrary. The King hereby is enforced to send his grandees to
the provinces and cities to persuade them. It seems strange to me and
others how such great sums of money as came this year from the Indies
should so suddenly be vanished; but [I] do verily think they hoard up
in some corner for some intended enterprise.




For the poor prisoners at Seville I can yet receive no answer, the
Duke, I hear, having for these many days withdrawn himself from all
negotiations.—Madrid, 21 Feb. 1607, stilo veteri.

Signed. Endorsed: "Rec[eived] 13 Mart." 1½ pp. (120 90(2).)




Julien Henry and Ernest Louis, Dukes of Saxony to the
Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 22.

The bearer is one of our people, a German gentleman, whom we have ordered to inform you of our present condition
caused by having trusted to our French friends, of which we now
repent, perhaps too late. But we have so much confidence in you that
we hope you will assist us in some way to return to our father, who
[Page 079]
awaits us with much affection. The bearer will explain all the circumstances, and we trust that you will pardon us for not coming to you
in person. Undated.

Signed. French. Endorsed: "22 Feb. 1607. The two Saxon Dukes."

1 p. (134 107.)




Sir Thomas Lake to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 22.

Your packet came about 6 this morning, so I
had time to cause some of the letters for alehouses to be made ready
before his Majesty's going. Herewith you shall receive 6 of them. The
rest shall be done at Newmarket. I have sent also the two bills and
the commission for exemption from juries, concerning which it is to
good purpose that which you have written by way of caution; for it was
the first news I had at my arrival here, that one came to me in the
name of himself and one of his fellows, to show me a motion they
intended to his Majesty, which was for the benefit of 30 of those exemptions. Upon reading of your letters by his Majesty I had a just occasion
to tell him of it; but your letter has armed him.




His Majesty willed me also to signify that he is desirous to hear of
the success of the matter of the fines in the King's Bench, or what the
impediment is why it is not put to a point; for except there be any
greater than he has yet heard, he thinks it should not stay.—Court at
Royston, 22 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. 1 p. (193 73.)




Sir Henry Fowkes to the Earl of Salisbury



[1607–8] Feb. 23.

Your noble favour in my late suit to the Lords
at the Council table, ministered such comfort as I cannot sufficiently
express the obligation I owe to so great a merit; which I have rather
chosen at this time to acknowledge by these few lines than by my
personal attendance; having in my late access observed how much your
Lordship is continually pressed with the important services of his
Majesty and the State.—London, 23 Feb.

Holograph. Seal, Endorsed: "1607." 1 p. (120 91.)




Tobie Matthew to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 24.

The same duty that bound me to do you the greatest service I could, and the least that I ought, in tendering to you by
the means of Mr Johnes, the first offer in the interest that I had in the
gatehouse and stable row of Duresme House, makes me present thanks
for your so gracious acceptance of so poor a testimony of the observant
respect I must ever carry to you. But now I find myself awaked by
your bounty in that you are pleased to come to so high a rate as 1200l.
which I cannot but acknowledge to be a very full value of the particular
in question, and confess to be a price rather to your disadvantage, when
I consider your present possession of some part thereof, and the charge
you have been at in the building. So that my conclusion must be, not
only that I have made a very provident bargain, but that I have received
a great deal of undeserved favour in the manner of it.—24 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. Seal, broken. 1 p. (120 94.)

[Page 080]



Sir Henry Hobart to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 24.

I have sent you this commission because there
may be means to convey it speedily. I received your letter touching the
suit of silk, whereof I will give you answer when I next attend upon you.
—24 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. ½ p. (122 83.)




The Mayor and Aldermen of Hull to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 24.

They thank him for his favours to their solicitors,
Mr Lister and Mr Proby, in their suit yet depending for supportation
of their ancient liberties; and beg him, as their chief officer, to further
their requests concerning the confirmation of their privileges, without
which they fear an importable poverty will fall on their Corporation.—
Hull, 24 Feb. 1607.

Signed: Tho. Swan, Mayor; Robert Tutler; Jno Lyster: John
Graves; W. Barnerde; Tho. Thankray; George Almond; Richard
Burgis, and Christopher Chapman.

1 p. (193 74.)




[Sir Thomas Edmondes] to [the Earl of Salisbury]



1607–8, Feb. 24.

News of a fight betwixt the galleys of Spain
and some merchant ships of Holland, which the King of Spain sent to
excuse, lest it should interrupt the treaty. Tyrone gone towards Italy,
conducted with a convoy of horse past the frontiers. He left his youngest
child at Louvain. The Earl of Tyrconnel's brother has done the like
with his son. An Italian preacher magnifying the Pope's power in
deposing of princes and giving authority to God's word, not otherwise
authentical but by his allowance.

Abstract. (227 p.343.)




Hugh Lee to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 25/March 6.

My last to you bears date 24 February,
under cover to R.L. George Bacon, the youth of Lynn's letters to his
father, are directed to John Walepoole dwelling in London, but in what
part I cannot learn. The youth is placed by Henry Fludd with the
Condesa de Fearas, the Condy being at the Court, but daily expected
here, for he goes for Vizorey (Viceroy) to the East Indies, the ships
being ready to depart; and it is pretended that George Bacon shall
attend him to the Indies for one of his pages. They have bought here
two flyboats, to accompany the 6 carricks and six galleons. They stay
only the coming down of the Vizorey. It is very likely the youth will
write largely to his father upon his departure, but here is no means
to come by his letters, their coverers are so many, and the place
dangerous. In England, by your command, it may more easily be performed. John Howe is the most likely to convey them, being their
chiefest familiar here.




Don Louis Faxardo, within these 3 days, has commanded workmen
aboard of all the galleons in this river, to prepare them for service.
These galleons are 12 or 13 that may prove serviceable. They may be in
readiness by the end of May. A galleon with some small shipping is
[Page 081]
lately sent for Syvell, to go thence with provision for the Groyne, where
are preparing also other shipping. In Biscay is also preparation.




The Terra Firme fleet are departed from St Lucas, where and at
Cales (Cadiz) are 10 galleons, which are in readiness to go for wafters
of the Plate fleet that is expected this year. It may be doubted that
from the West Indies the Spaniard will seek to hinder what in him lies
the purposed planting in "Virgneas" (Virginia) of his Majesty's subjects, in regard they offer so hard measure unto those prisoners in
Sevill which were bound upon that voyage.




Here is an English youth, about 18 or 19, with a red head, but no
beard as yet. He was born in Kent, and brought up at school in Worcestershire. He is called Barnerd. He dwells with an Inquisidore, and
was conveyed hither by Jesuits. He keeps himself from the society of
Englishmen, but waits his times when he may meet single with the youth
in this place, when he uses his art in labouring to win them, and
has prevailed with some. He is likely to prove a dangerous enemy
to his Majesty's subjects if he may continue here; as Fludd and his
associates have lately given out that they purpose to erect an English
College here, to train English youths. If their purposes be not prevented,
it will be very dangerous for his Majesty's subjects to frequent this
place.




Mr Hugh Gurganey remains yet in the house of the Jesuits. A few
days past it was given out that he should be returned to the Inquisition
again, which he understanding, made show of a desire rather so to be
returned than to remain where he is; which when they perceived, they
altered their purpose, to keep him from his best liking, where he is like
to stay their pleasures, with all the friendship his best friends can make.
My Lord Ambassador, as his Lordship lately signified to me, has taken
his cause upon him again, working by a way whereby he hopes to
purchase his liberty. By the last ordinary to the Court, I sent his Lordship the whole estate of his cause conveyed to me by his brother, who
has free access to him.—6 March, 1608, in Lizboa.

Holograph. 2 pp. (115 128.)




Sir Thomas Lake to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 25.

I have received this day two packets from your
Lordship, one early in the morning about two or three of the clock
concerning the matter of Florence, the other containing letters for
alehouses this evening. Of those kind of letters, besides such as I have
already sent from hence to you, which were sixteen, you shall now
receive twenty two more, which were ready before yours came; and those
being thirty, consider whether it be needful to make any more; for when
those thirty be signed, which came last, you shall have above three
score, and if you give commandment there shall be more prepared.




Of the matter of Florence, which his Majesty read not till this evening
because he went early forth, I have nothing yet to write by commandment, for that his Majesty said he would read the grievances again.
But this by observation, that he noted in the merchants' own reports
"we hear" and "as is reported", so as things being not by them affirmed
upon proof he knows not well how to charge the Duke, besides that they
[Page 082]
do not deny directly but blanch and smooth over with good colour the
meddling with carriage of Turks and Turkish commodities, something
which his Highness thinks the Duke will make the pretence of his
justification. But of sending, it seemed his Majesty allowed, and of the
gentleman your Lordship has chosen. But I have received no commandment to write anything in particular. At the reading of your letter his
Majesty seemed to find strange he heard not of the finishing of the loan,
whereunto I answered that I took it your Lordship saw no cause to
trouble his Majesty with any more advertisement of it, other than I had
brought by word of mouth to his Highness, which was what you were
sure of among the strangers in money, what of the citizens in money,
what in bonds, and what names the Aldermen had delivered to you for
the filling up of the rest. So as I thought it was either done according
to that project, or else in such way of doing as there was no cause to
trouble his Majesty with it.




I thought it also convenient to advertise you that having spoken
twice to his Highness upon occasions of putting off the matter of
Gunter till Midsummer term, for so I was charged by you among other
things, I found his Highness to mislike the deferring of it, and said it
concerned his honour and he would have it done, speaking passionately
thereof; and that every term there was one occasion or other picked to
delay it, which he knew not what it meant. Though I had no commandment one way or other about it, I thought fit to let you know how it
passed.—From the Court at Newmarket, 25 Feb. at night, 1607.

Holograph. Two seals, broken. Endorsed: "Newmarket, the 26
Febr. at 6 in the morning. Tho. Lake." 2 pp. (120 95.)




Stephen Le Sieur to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 25.

Your letter of the 23rd I have received in this
place, from whence I shall so depart that, God willing, I shall upon
Monday next in the morning attend your further pleasure.—From
Winchester, 25 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. 1 p. (120 96).




The Privy Council to Francis Gofton



1607–8, Feb. 25.

The King by his privy seal, bearing date at
Broughton the second of September, in the second year of his reign,
gave order for making sundry parcels of gold and silver gilt plate in
supply of divers parcels of the like plate taken out of the Jewel House
and given by his Majesty to the Constable of Castile and other Ambassadors and Commissioners sent from the King of Spain and the Archduke of Austria, answerable in weight and fashion to the pieces given
away; but yet with a reference to us of his Privy Council for his more
particular direction therein to us delivered, as by the privy seal appears.
These are to signify to you that his Majesty's pleasure to us was that
in the making of all the several pieces of gilt plate, all art and industry
should be used for the making of them most fair and of best show, not
so much regarding the preciseness of the patterns delivered as therefore
to omit anything which, either in the curiousness of the workmanship
or in the quantity of the pieces (though different from the patterns),
[Page 083]
might give any graceful ornament unto them. This being his Majesty's
particular pleasure to us delivered, you need not let the difference
from the patterns be any impediment to hinder the allowance of the
accompt.—Whitehall, 25 Feb. 1607.

Unsigned. 2/3 p. (120 97.)




Noel de Caron to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 25.

My last letters from Monsieur Barnevelt and the
Registrar (Greffier) d'Aerss[ens] assure me that the Estates will never
drop their negotiations regarding both the West and East Indies, nor
quit the places they hold there, because they have proved to the
Commissioners of the King of Spain and the Archdukes that they are
far stronger there than the King of Spain himself. To yield him this
advantage would be to pay dear for the peace he offers them, which in
fact gives them only what they have and hold in possession. So that I
see and hold for certain that if the Spaniard does not grant it to them,
or at least affords them some reasonable means of being able to keep
what they have, and they will be able to trade in other places where the
Spaniard holds nothing only at their own risk, there will follow a
rupture of the treaty. It appears, moreover, that they have sent to this
effect and in great haste to Spain. However, Spinola has sent to all the
ambassadors residing here, in France and in Brussels, on the part
of the King of Spain, to have their advice on this matter, for it seems
that the Archdukes are wholly disposed to grant it, apparently because
if Spain granted it to our people, the Archdukes will like to have it too
for their Antwerp merchants. However this be, I am relieved to learn
the firm resolution of our people on this point, and I pray God they
continue of the same mind. What more I can learn, I will not fail to
send you or bring it to your Lordship myself.




I send presents of Holland cheeses to you and the Lord Chamberlain
(le Grand Chambellan).—Suydt Lambeth, 25 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. French 1 p. (193 75.)




The Vice-Chancellor of Cambridge to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 26.

Upon receipt of your letter of the 11th of this
month touching Mr Gurnay, wishing his re-election upon his submission
and promise of reformation, as you put me in trust with the carriage
of the cause, so have I endeavoured as near as I could. The sum is
this; I persuading with Mr Gurnay at several times privately to prepare
and bring him to submission, could not prevail against his own conceited indiscretion, and, as it seemed, sinister counsel of some others;
but he rather professed unto me, if my sentence should pass against him,
to appeal unto the University. Thereupon I resolved to proceed unto
sentence in a legal course, giving warning to both parties and assigning
a set day. Before which time Mr Gurnay, withdrawing himself out of
town, leaves a letter to the Master of that College of some promise of
reformation, but no express submission; some of the Fellows, his friends,
managing the cause in his absence better than himself would have done
being present; mediating for him first to the Master and then to me, for
domestical compounding the matter, and partly undertaking for his
[Page 084]
better conformity hereafter. I thought best to apprehend that opportunity for his good, though he showed himself little to deserve or desire
it, for a mean of better peace among them, as seemed to me, as also for
your satisfaction, and so referred them to try what they could do at
home for his re-election. Which when I heard they had with good agreement effected, the Master showing himself, notwithstanding the wrongs
done him by Mr Gurnay, upon some future hope and specially respecting his promise made unto you, to overcome evil with good, I sent
for the Master and Society to take from them jointly the better information, who told me that they had with a general consent re-elected Mr
Gurnay in locum et statum quo prius, that morning being St Matthew's
Day—the lot that day fell well on Mr Gurnay's side, and that they hoped
it would turn to his good and the peace of their College, which I was
glad to hear. In conclusion, I moving them to rest in the interpretation,
with the clause for four months premonition, according to your direction, they willingly promised their readiness therein.




Lastly, it pleasing you to mention some injurious imputations
aspersed upon Dr Jegon, requiring me to have an eye thereupon,
namely of inconvenience and burden to that College with having wife
and family within the same, I can hear none evil that way, but rather
the contrary testified under the hands of all the Fellows now at home,
being eight, whereof some have leaned to Mr Gurnay's side, in haec
verba; "that Dr Jegon his government among them is not to be misliked,
nor his behaviour to be blamed in aught they know or believe, and that
his wife liveth in a very private and convenient lodging on the backside of that College, without any trouble to the Company, burden to
the College or offence to any."—King's College, Cambridge, 26 Feb.
1607.

Signed: Ro. Goade. Seal. 1½ pp. (136 150.)




Henry Carew to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 26.

I have presumed to write unto you, and have
entreated Sir Edward Gorges to solicit my distressed case unto you.
The afflictions I have or shall endure do not grieve me so much as that
I have so indiscreetly incurred your displeasure, whom of all of your
rank and calling I have most reverenced. I do and must confess my
fault in not setting my hand to that which by you and the rest of that
honourable assembly I was required to do; which yet I protest was not
out of any harmful meaning to his Majesty, whose sacred person I have
ever most adored, but rather for that the Recorder had not indifferently
set down my examination, but in my opinion did rather seek to entrap
me than to be informed of the truth. And having denied to set my hand
to that examination taken before him, did make me obstinately persevere to refuse to do it in your presence, which has heartily repented me,
and [I] am ready to give all satisfaction for my fault, and will put in as
good surety for my future carriage as shall be required. I beseech you
take pity on my distressed case. I have grown feeble and much decayed
in my bodily forces by reason of a long "indurance" and late sickness;
my wife in the country grown dark of her sight, and not in case to travail to aid me; my daughter, which was the only governess of my poor
[Page 085]
house and family lately dead; my son not in case to manage my affairs,
by means whereof I spend my poor livelihood here, and every one that
is ill disposed makes havoc of my estate at home. If my house may be
preserved by your favour towards us, it shall endeavour to requite the
same by any service shall lie in us to perform.—The Fleet, 26 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. Seal. 1 p. (120 98.)




Sir Edward Coke to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 26.

I proposed to have attended on you before this
time, but I have had, since I saw you, three fits of a tertiary ague, and
am yet God's prisoner. If able I will perform some part of my circuit;
if not, my companion and fellow Justice is to take the pains alone.—
Stoke, 26 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. ½ p. (193 76.)




Concealed Lands



1607–8, Feb. 26.

Agreement with respect to certain articles
between Mr Bolton and Mr Tipper, respecting concealed lands. Mr
Wymark mentioned.—26 Feb. 1607.

½ p. (123 169.)




Griffith Pen



1607–8, Feb. 26.

Passport for Griffith Pen to pass beyond seas.
—Whitehall, 26 Feb. 1607.

Unsigned. ½ p. (206 49.)




Advertisements from Prague



[1607–8,] Feb. 27/March 8.

The affairs of Ratisbon remain still in
the same state; one may say they grow worse as regards the Emperor,
to whom these delays can only be very prejudicial. Some say
he will patiently await the end, whereto he has exhorted the Archduke
Ferdinand by the Sieur de Trautmensdorff, whom he had sent for that
purpose. Others add that he will resolve to surmount all difficulties, to
go himself to the Diet if he can induce the other Electors to come there
also in person. But I see many hindrances which you see even better
than I, which make me believe nothing till the issue. However, the
Count of Helfestein, one of the Commissaries of his Imperial Majesty
in the said Diet, has asked and obtained leave for 15 days to go home,
and it is said others will do the like, seeing they will have leisure
enough, since the Ambassadors of the Protestants in the last sitting,
which was the 27th ult, resolved not to meet again with the others till
they had advertised their masters of what had passed, and received
their answer and commandments thereupon.




The Archduke Matthias, after having allowed the cavalry [?to retire]
towards the frontier, of which he has retained ten companies under the
charge of the Baron de Puckain, wishes also to make sure (le veult
asseurer) of the infantry, which may be about three thousand men, and
besides the Sieur Ridolfi, who is gone to Rome, he has also dispatched
the Sieur Hoffkirken towards the Princes of Germany, Baron Charles de
Hairach towards the King of Spain, and Count Brune de Mansfeldt
[Page 086]
towards the Archduke [Albert]. It is reported the last will pass into
France to justify also the actions of the said Archduke towards the
King, but I have no other confirmation of it. Having written thus far,
a friend writes to me that it is reported in the town since dinner
that the Elector of Saxe has sent to the Emperor the letters that
Archduke Matthias has written to him by the Sieur Hoffkirken, whom,
moreover, the said Elector keeps in strict custody. I do not believe it
however.—De Prague, le 8 de Mars.

French. Endorsed: "8 March, 1607. Advertisement." 1 p.
(120 120) Brief abstract of the foregoing, headed "From Prague, 8
March, 1608." in French. ½ p. (194 125.)




The Earl of Hertford



[1607–8, before Feb. 28.]

"Breviat of the Earl of Hertford's cause."




This concerns the claims of Lord Mounteagle to certain lands as a
descendant of Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk; and of Lord Beauchamp, who claims as son of the Earl of Hertford and Lady Katherine
Grey.




Reasons stated why the Court of Wards should stay the granting of
any warrant to Lord Mounteagle for finding any office of the lands
mentioned in the petition, until the Commission for the trial of the
marriage of the Earl of Hertford and Lady Katherine be determined.

Endorsed by Earl of Salisbury. 2 sheets. [See Cal. S.P. Dom. 1603–1610,
p. 410] (146 112.)




Dr James Mountagu to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 28.

I have sometimes been troublesome unto you in a
suit of the like nature I now entreat your favour in. It is the news at
Newmarket that the Bishop of Bath and Wells is departed, and for
fear of other undertakers I have been bold to crave his Majesty's favour
towards me for that place, which it has pleased his Majesty most
graciously to yield me his good will in. Yet I neither value his Majesty's
favour and service so little, nor the place so much, as that I desire by it
altogether to be made a stranger unto his Majesty. Therefore my most
humble suit unto his Majesty has been, and now is unto you, that leaving both my deanery of Worcester and my 400l pension and my place
at Cambridge, I might hold the title of his Majesty's servant in my
place of the Dean of his Majesty's Chapel. I have found his Majesty
not one whit disliking of my motion, but yet referring it to precedent and
further approbation. For the one there is enough to be said, all my
predecessors well nigh in that place having enjoyed both a bishopric and
it together, and some of the like nature at this day, both in country and
Court. For the other I am a very humble suitor that I may have your
approbation to hold my place in Court; not that I mean to follow as now
I do (for I will promise to be one half of the year at the bishopric),
but that I may not too suddenly be drawn from the breasts of so dear
and precious a master, whose grace is dearer unto me than either living
or life. And therefore if ever you will do me a favour (as I acknowledge
myself bound for many), I crave it in this, that I may hold my place
in his Majesty's service. And although I am no man of great merit, yet
[Page 087]
I will endeavour by all good means to deserve it.—From the Court at
Newmarket, 28 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. Seal. 2 pp. (120 99.)




Sir Thomas Lake to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 28.

I have this afternoon received his Majesty's
directions for answer to your letter sent with the grievances of the
merchants against the Duke of Florence; which is to this effect, that he
never judged otherwise of that Duke [marginal note; His Majesty's
opinion of the Duke of Florence] but that he was a niggard merchantlike Prince, and that for gain or saving he would offer hard measure to
any Prince or State, or to any man living; and out of this root his Highness takes to be all that he has done concerning his subjects. And though
his Highness doubt not of this ground, and that from thence the Duke
be apt to turn all accidents to his advantage, yet having exactly perused
the complaints and informations, he is confirmed in that which I wrote
to you before, that howsoever their case be in point of justice, yet
[marginal note; the merchants' complaints not justified but by hearsay]
in their own reports there is no proof, but for the most part "as we hear,
as is said, as is reported" which cannot give to his Highness a just ground
to judge of or [marginal note: no ground to challenge the Duke in strict
point of justice, but of friendship] to charge the Duke in point of strictness of justice, howbeit that in point of friendship every unkindness
which his subjects receive is a ground of complaint. But his Highness
likens these complaints to many of those of the Spanish merchants, who
cried because they were grieved but never looked soundly how to verify
their grievances to the rule of justice. But howsoever they err in the
form of presenting their complaints [marginal note; his Majesty's
allowance of sending to the Duke to expostulate and pray redress, and
for establishment of the future traffic] his Majesty thinks he has good
ground to send to the Duke, and to expostulate and crave both redress
for that is past and some establishment of the condition of his subjects'
traffic hereafter, or else to discover the Duke's intent toward him and his
people; and likes well of the choice you have made of Le Sieur [marginal
note; mistaking of the numbers of the ships]. Concerning the number of
the ships distressed or taken by the Duke, his Highness does not find
by his exact perusing of the information that they are so many as by
your letter at first he apprehended; so as if the blood may now, by
sending to him be stanched, he hopes that which is drawn shall neither
prove dangerous to his estate nor much enable the Duke's.




[Marginal note; concerning Gunter, depopulations, Fuller]. Upon
your writing about the matter of Gunter his Highness has commanded
this to be returned, that his meaning is not that the proceeding of
that should hinder the matter of depopulations, which is his chiefest
end of the next term, nor that of Fuller neither; but that if it be possible,
those being allowed their due time, that this may have, if not a thorough
proceeding, yet an entry upon the last Star Chamber day or some other
day, and that no time be given to private men's causes before it; but
that the days being disposed for those other matters, what may be
spared be employed for a beginning to this (if further it cannot go), and
[Page 088]
so to be prosecuted afterward. For he thinks his honour too far engaged
in it to have it longer neglected without some entry to be made into it.
Last of all, his Majesty gave me charge to require of you an answer to
one matter which, he said, he gave direction in before his coming and
heard not of it since—which was concerning Tobie Mathew and Henry
Constable. For the one I told his Highness I heard there was a time
limited for his departure; of the other I could say nothing. His Highness
replied it was to be considered whether they should be banished, and
that in the meantime they were to be kept straightly to avoid access,
for he knew how prisons were looked unto. His Highness would be
informed of the particulars of the order taken or intended to be taken
with them.—From the Court at Newmarket, 28 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. Seal, broken. 2½ pp. (120 100.)




Sir Henry Montagu to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 28.

As yet we are not full summed in London. The
Mayor and Aldermen do their utmost to advance in money what was
required. They have raised very near 50,000l in money, besides the
greater men's bonds, which will be current; all are not yet dealt with,
therefore we were not ready to give you account at this day. You will
pardon this boldness and excuse my attendance; the cold will scarce
let me speak.—28 Feb. 1607.

Holograph. Seal. ½ p. (120 102.)




Viscount Fenton to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb. 28.

After the receipt of your letter by the Irish baron
I delivered the same to his Majesty, and his Highness has spoken at
great length with him in the presence of all here. His Highness has
"carried" the course set down in your letter, and has said to him that
he shall know by your Lordship what his Majesty intends for him, as
the safest course for that which he seems most to regard; so that you
may go on with him in that temper, and upon these grounds set down in
your own letter.




In this discourse his Majesty asked him of a matter wherewith you
did first acquaint his Majesty touching a chaplain of one of the Council
of Ireland, and his name is Sir Garret Moore. His offence was for
invocating the devil to understand what should become of Tyrone and
his business. This matter his Majesty says you do know better nor he
can inform you, yet he thinks it were expedient that such a matter
should not pass without exemplary punishment, and therefore has
desired that you write to the Deputy of Ireland to take an exact trial
in that matter, and to proceed as the fact shall deserve. One thing
more his Majesty has commanded me to acquaint you with, that in this
conference betwixt his Majesty and the baron he asked the King what
counsel he should give [Lord] Delvin at his coming to Ireland. His
Majesty answered he could give no advice in that, but in his opinion
Delvin's best [?course] should be to submit himself without any condition, because it could not well consist that his Majesty should be
King and he, a rebel, to remain in that country, as it were in spite of his
Majesty; and desires that you should bring the same home to him from
[Page 089]
yourself when he shall enter with you in this subject, as his Majesty
thinks he will do.




This is all wherein I am directed at this time.—Newmarket, 28 Feb.
at iiii [o'clock], 1607.

Holograph. Seal. 1½ pp. (120 103.)




Sir Roger Aston to the Earl of Salisbury



[1607–8] Feb. 28.

I thought good first to let you know his Majesty
is in good health, and has a good stomach to his meat. The meat his
Majesty best loves at this time of year is a young "ked"; he has had
one already and can get no more. If you would send to Enfield Chace
or Hatfield and get him one or two, they would be a very acceptable
present. Yesternight I received a letter from my Lord of Dunbar with
an account of your Lordships' proceedings since his Majesty's coming
away, and with what care matters have been carried, and chiefly, by
you; not only in the laying of courses to be followed to his Majesty's
best benefit, but in holding the rest so hard to the matter till they were
brought to perfection. My pen cannot set down what he has written of
you. Tomorrow his Majesty will write to you, for I asked him if he
would command me any service, for I would write to you. He bade me
tell you tomorrow he would write himself. His Majesty is well pleased
with your proceedings, as you will know by his own letter. He was this
day highly offended with a petition that came recommended from the
Queen by Mr Alexander in favour of John Elveston for the forfeiture of
all non-residents and pluralities. So soon as he read it he pulled it in
pieces, saying he was a traitor that devised it. Yesterday his Majesty
was at the hawking and dined with Sir Nicholas Bacon.—From Newmarket, 28 Feb. at 3 oclock in the afternoon.

Holograph. Endorsed: "1607." 1½ pp. (120 106.)




Sir Roger Aston to the Earl of Salisbury



[1607–8] Feb. 29.

I have been earnestly solicited to write to you on
behalf of Richard Blag for a fellowship in Peterhouse College in Cambridge.
The party has his Majesty's letter to you, and before I would grant to
write I acquainted his Majesty what was desired of me. His Majesty
commanded me to let you know his desire is not that you should do
anything in this but that which was agreed upon between his Majesty
and your Lordship; that was above all that the liberty of the house
should be preserved, his Majesty's meaning was not to write to any
other end. The father of the young man, the bearer hereof, that is the
suitor for his son, has done his Majesty some service in taking up some
"hakes" [hawks] that were lost, whereupon his Majesty granted his
letters; and because I was master falconer they would have my furtherance. And so I leave it to your consideration.




The advertisement came hither yesternight of the death of the Bishop
of Bath and Wells; the Dean of the Chapel has a grant of the place, but
not except he may continue Dean of the Chapel still. There is suit
making for the deanery of Worcester, both by Sir Thomas Lake for his
brother and John Morre for his brother.—From Newmarket, the last of
February.

[Page 090]
Holograph. Seal. Endorsed: "The last of February, 1607. Sir
Roger Aston by Blage." 1 p. (120 105.)




Sir Jerome Bowes to the Earl of Salisbury



[1607–8, Feb.]

It has pleased you to do me many great favours which
I will never forget. You were the chief means that by my suit to his
Majesty, I renewed the grant of my letters patents for the making of
glasses. You were also the means that his Majesty was willing to pardon
the arrearages of the rent run on in the time of my last letters patents.
I should much forget if I should not acknowledge your goodness in
winning his Majesty's good consideration of me when two of his huntsmen had obtained the grant of a little farm I had and should enjoy in the
bishopric of Durham, wherein you must, I hope, be one of my judges.
There is lately question grown twixt the farmer of my glasshouse and
me, with whom (had he not exceedingly abused me as well by breaking
covenant in the detaining of my rent for a long time, as by much evil
carriage towards me otherwise) I never intended to have disagreed. But
he has now carried his contention to such a height as that (under
pretence of a certain article of agreement for the having of my new
letters patents, after the rate of his former rent, which article by his own
default has been made void), he withholds from me without any title my
said glasshouse with the whole benefit of my privilege; and, as I am
credibly informed, spares not to boast that you will give countenance
to his proceedings. Wherein, though I assure myself he much wrongs
you, yet I find it my duty to make my voluntary offer of submission of
myself and whatsoever is mine to your disposing, might I but know that
you did mislike of any measure that I offer him. In which regard enjoin
my attendance upon you to be enjoined to do and perform your will, in
which, had it not been that I held it an offence to cumber you, upon
whom so many important affairs do rest, I should have sought no other
judge than yourself. But howsoever the case stands, till you find me to
deserve the contrary, allow me to beg of your Lordship to hold me in
your wonted favour. Undated.

Holograph. Endorsed: "Feb. 1607. Sir Hierome Bowes touching
a contention between him and the farmer of his glasshouse." 2 pp.
(120 107.)




Patrick Comyng to the Earl of Salisbury



[1607–8, Feb.]

One surnamed Riche Sutton has lately bought
Castle Camp whereof, as I hear, he is already so weary that he intends
to give up his estate thereof to some nobleman to be the staff of his
age, wherewith he is now almost "denombit". And I am persuaded if
any motion were made in time in behalf of my Lord of Oxford, that
Sutton should lay down his estate of the said lordship at your feet. If I
can do you any service one John Cradock, a groom of her Majesty's
great chamber, will find me at any time. I have received my reference
from Sir Thomas Lake upon Monday last, wherein if I be not only
beholden to you, though my suit cannot hinder his Majesty, yet I
know I shall be delayed which will breed my overthrow. Undated.

Holograph. Endorsed: "Feb. 1607." ⅓ p. (120 108.)

[Page 091]



Josias Kyrton to the Earl of Salisbury



[1607–8, Feb.]

Having heretofore solicited you for the regaining of
my liberty I am again, through your pleasure signified to my lord and
master that I should attend you herein, encouraged with a little hope
to be unladen of that long endured burthen, wherewith the restraint
confining me within three miles of this city has depressed me. Restore
me to my wonted liberty with the cancelling of those great bands,
wherein I stand engaged with sureties for confinement and daily appearance in the Star Chamber, hitherto in all care performed, or if that be
too much, that I may be released from being confined to three miles of
London, my means of livelihood lying further hence, and myself not
being otherwise able in these hard times to maintain a wife, children
and family in so small a limit, and I will remain bound to render myself
whensoever called. My resolved purpose has ever been in this to make
my means to none other than your Lordship alone.—Undated.

Holograph. Seal. broken. Endorsed: "Feb. 1607." 1¼ pp. (120
111.)




Noel De Caron to the Earl of Salisbury



[1607–8, Feb.]

After I had seen your Lordship today, I found a
messenger in my house who brought me a letter from Monsieur Barnevelt of sufficiently recent date, for it was written from the Hague on 21
February, new style. He writes me always in Flemish, which is why I do
not send you his letter, but the contents are as I shall represent in
what follows here.




I have already advertised you that our enemies have granted us the
sovereignty of the country with renunciation of arms and titles (tytels),
but that the Commissioners had insisted that we ought to give up the
negotiations for the East and West Indies; and thereby (to wit, after
they would have granted us free traffic through all the realms and dominions of the King of Spain), they have wanted to make it a condition
that all merchants, traffickers, sailors and all other inhabitants of the
United Provinces should abandon entirely the navigation of the said
Indies and all the routes thereto, and that the States shall promise not
to permit any of their subjects to contravene there, and where any shall
contravene, to punish them as breakers of the peace. Upon this we have
had conference together on two occasions but, notwithstanding every
good reason that we have alleged and that the matter is repugnant to
all right and reason, they will not give up this proposition or even modify
it. This we find a matter in no wise to be discussed. The business concerns the whole assurance of our state's affairs, considering we maintain
a notable number, namely 44 great and powerful men-of-war, of
800, 1000, 1200 and 1300 tons with their crew of an infinite number of
mariners to boot. Moreover, we are already as strong and well established
in the East Indies as the King of Spain himself. Therefore I could not
advise you certainly of the issue we can expect from this negotiation.
If it breaks on this point, as is evident it will do if they insist upon it,
we shall be badly off if his Majesty is persistent (as I understand by your
letters) upon the difficulty of giving us his liberal assistance; but I
hope for better things. In any case we shall have gained our justifica[Page 092]
tion before the whole world, and, in my opinion, we shall pass at once
to conclude further upon the business and Company of the West Indies,
without, I hope, their doing us any other evil. Of what further happens,
you shall be advised at the earliest.




Such are the principal contents of Barnevelt's letter. Time will tell
us what can follow, but for myself I am more doubtful of this peace than
I have been before.—Undated.

Holograph. French. Endorsed: "Feb. 1607." 1 p. (193 77.)




Lord Saye and Sele to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, Feb.

Salisbury would not undertake his proposition with
regard to victualling houses, it being a monopoly. He now proposes the
stamping of the contents of every parcel of lead, which would be to
the profit of the merchants of Hull and Bristowe. He details terms he
would give, and offers to give 40 marks per annum to any of Salisbury's
followers, especially to his (the writer's) nephew, Henry Kingesmill.
He understands the town of Banbury already have or hope instantly to
procure the wool market to their own benefit, although the poor castle
decays, which might reap 40l per annum towards repair.—Feb. 1607.




PS. He has spent in his Majesty's service abroad and at home 2000l
and never received 100l If his suit for lead prevail not, he offers the
like terms for a fine of 2s per acre upon land "during the time neither
beef, mutton, butter, cheese or corn accrues to the Commonwealth,
but only oade." He is enforced to dispark his poor park to pay his
debts.

Signed. 1 p. (193 78.)




Office of the Robes



1607–8, Feb.

Draft warrant authorising Zacharie Bethell to view
the remain of the robes, enter the same in a fair book, and keep account
of all thing hereafter brought in and issued out; and to have a provident
care of the same.—Whitehall, Feb. 1607.

1 p. (193 79.)




Corpus Christi or Bennett College. Cambridge



[1607–8, c. Feb.]

Two papers.




(1) Edward Gent and Edmund Gurnaie, having continued Fellows of
Corpus Christi College in Cambridge, one of them ten years and the
other six years, and now by the Master of that College deprived of their
Fellowships for that they were not made deacons within three years
after their admission to their Fellowships.




The ground of their deprivation is enforced out of this clause in the
College Statutes; de mensa, salario et sociorum cubiculis. Volumus
etiam quod quilibet socius, in ordine presbiteratus constitutus octo marcas,
et quilibet in diaconum ordinatus vel infra tres annos post admissionem
ordinandus sex marcas tantummodo, de nobis et rebus nostris annuatim
percipiat donec Dei beneficio etc.




That this Statute should carry this sense is enforced by the Master
with two reasons; first, another Statute providing that if there be any
difficulty which the Master and majority of the Fellows cannot deter[Page 093]
mine, the ambiguity is to be determined by the Chancellor or by the Vice
Chancellor and two Fellows, which interpretation the Master about two
months since, having an intent, as appeareth, to expulse the said Fellows,
did secretly procure from Dr Harsnet, Dr Goad and Dr Soame, being
all divines and no lawyers, not acquainting them with his intent, nor
the Society that he would or had procured it as he ought to have done
by the Statute; the effect of which interpretation was that the Statute
did contain a necessity—to be deacons within three years upon pain
of expulsion; secondly, two witnesses are produced that had been
Fellows in the beginning of Queen Elizabeth's reign, which do depose
that some in their remembrance were forced upon that Statute to leave
their places, though in part elected again.




To this is answered in the behalf of the expulsed Fellows. Concerning
the Statute, that by another Statute no Statute must be further extended than the grammatical sense will bear, and the Statute pretended
hath no word in it that doth grammatically imply expulsion. Secondly,
there is another Statute entitled de qualitatibus eligendorum in socios
which only ought to limit us and no Statute else. Thirdly, about thirteen
years since, there was a reference from the Chancellor of the University
then unto divers principal learned lawyers for their opinions concerning
the place of Dr Settle, who had been six or seven years Fellow and not in
orders, and it was adjudged that he might continue his Fellowship and
not be forced to take orders. Whereupon he proceeded D.C.L. since it
was the practice of the House, as likewise Dr Elvyn, Doctor of Physic,
continued his place ten years, and Robert Willam about six or seven
years in the Master's time immediately before this man, and since Mr
Henry Buttes for the space of seven or eight years, Mr Edward Gent
nine or ten years, myself almost six years in the time of this man.




The authority to interpret the Statute is not devolved to the ViceChancellor and doctors, but in case the Master and the greater part of the
Fellows do disagree; this matter was never propounded to the Fellows
but only an interpretation privately procured by the Master alone, and
never showed but for this expulsion.




That which the witnesses prove is only that such a thing was done de
facto, which act doth also not appear to be the joint act of the Master
and Fellows; such practice was before the foundation of "our" Fellowships: such Fellows as were so expulsed were elected again; the witnesses
did depose in the hearing of one another; the time of those witnesses
was presently upon the alteration of religion, when there was scarcity of
professors and specially of divines; and, lastly, they have precedents to
the contrary.—Undated.

2 pp. (136 109.)




(2) Some information of the state of Bennett College. Bennett
College in Cambridge was first founded by Henry, Duke of Lancaster,
afterwards Henry IV, by the name of the College of Corpus Christi and
the blessed Virgin. Our Lady Mary. Afterwards it was augmented in
Queen Elizabeth's reign by Matthew Parker. [Arch]bishop of Canterbury,
and became to be called Bennett College ob vicinatatem parochiae
Sancti Benedicti, in which parish it standeth. In the first year of Queen
Elizabeth's reign, the Visitors sent to reform the University of Cam[Page 094]
bridge changed the Statutes of the first foundation and gave new Statutes
to that College, by which it hath ever since been governed, and the
Master, Fellows and Scholars only sworn since then to those new
Statutes. The intention and authority of that commission was to reform superstition, abuses and enormities, and not otherwise to change or
pervert the old foundations. Matthew Parker, [Arch]bishop of Canterbury, was one of these Visitors; in those old Statutes it is strictly
enjoined that every Fellow of that House shall enter into Holy Orders
within one year after his admission. The intention of which Statute
leadeth the whole business now in question between Dr Jegon and Mr
Gurney, for that the Visitors changed the words of the old Statute:
infra annum a tempore admissionis ad ordinem sacerdotalem canonice
promovendus into these words: infra tres annos post ejus admissionem
ordinandus.




The question betwixt Dr Jegon and Mr Gurney. Mr Gurney hath been
twice censured by Dr Jegon, first for misdemeanour, to which censure
the Vice-Chancellor certifieth he was called, as Visitor of the College,
examined it upon oath, found it just and ratified it; the penalty of that
censure was cessation of his allowance till reformation. Secondly, for
not entering into Holy Orders according to the Statute, the penalty
whereof is intended to be the loss of his Fellowship. Dr Jegon hereupon
pronounceth him non socius, cut his name out of the buttery, and
elected another man into his place. Mr Gurney appealed to the ViceChancellor before whom the issue was—what the word ordinandus in
the new Statutes intendeth, whether a necessity of entering into Holy
Orders within three years, or only an aptness, inclination or worthiness
thereunto; "ordinandus, id est, ordinari dignus", saith Mr Gurney.




Dr Jegon proves the necessity:




(1) The grammatical sense as abeundum est mihi—I must go hence.




(2) Out of the intention of the first founder, as before in the old
Statute.




(3) Out of another Statute of the Visitors, Statute 12; Eligendi in
socios qui studio theologiae vacent et intendant et gradus in eadem conscendant, sub poena amissionis sodalitii, ipso facto.




(4) By the perpetual practice of the House, proved by oath of two
ancient divines, Fellows of the College forty five years since, and so
continued to this day, saving that some "connevencie" hath been used
in this behalf for the space of some sixteen years last past.




(5) In the very time of this "connevencie", Mr Anthonie Hickman,
Fellow of that College, being proceeded against by Dr Cockcotts (fn. 1) then
Master, upon the same point, was constrained to obtain a dispensation
from Queen Elizabeth; in which dispensation it is acknowledged that
this necessity is intended by that Statute.




(6) That this interpretation was made good of late by the ViceChancellor and two senior doctors, which being so done bindeth as a
Statute for that House.

[Page 095]



(7) That Mr Gurney by his own depositions acknowledgeth that it
might be the intention of the Visitors at that time, for want of Ministers
in the Church.




(8) And, lastly, the intention of the Visitors is proved by act of the
Bishop of Canterbury, himself one of the Visitors, one of the Fellowships of whose foundation Mr Gurney holdeth; who provideth that if those
of his foundation shall be found at three years' end undisposed to the
ministry, others shall be chosen into their places.




Mr Gurney's defence.




(1) That the grammatical sense is ordinandus that is ordinari dignus,
as it is in the grammar amandus, amari dignus.




(2) That Dr Jegon never gave him any orderly monition of entering
into Orders, but what he said to him touching it was quasi intrans
cursu, quasi abind agens.




(3) That this practice has been ordinarily interrupted for these
sixteen years.




(4) That there was an interpretation some sixteen or seventeen
years ago in favour of this sense by Dr Bell, then Vice-Chancellor, and
others; but this interpretation cannot be shewed and it is absolutely
denied by Dr Jegon that there was ever any such.




(5) That Dr Jegon had not a competent number of Fellows when he
pronounced him non socius, which should have been major pars sociorum
and should have been 7 of 12, whereas he had but 7 in all of which three
dissented from his sentence.




(6) That he was not called as party to the interpretation lately
made by the Vice-Chancellor, whereas it was purposely had and
produced against him.




Dr Jegon's yielding to a favourable course for Mr Gurney.




That Mr Gurney submitting himself, he will presently upon his return
home, re-elect Mr Gurney in locum et statum quo prius and admit him
again into his Fellowship by a deputy, so that he may return again to
his place without prejudice or damage.




It may please your Lordship to require a proviso be added to the
late interpretation of this Statute made by the Vice-Chancellor, for
entering into Orders within three years, that the Master shall henceforth, in the presence of six of the Fellows at least, admonish every such
party against whom he will proceed upon the Statute for his not entering into Orders 4 months before the expiration of the three years; which
Statute, all being sworn to it, may be alike pressed upon all and not
urged or relaxed as the Master shall be affected to favour or disfavour
any.

Endorsed: "1607." 3 pp. (136 167.)




William Calley to the Privy Council



[1607–8, c. Feb.]

Of a bark's lading of cloth lost in her return out of
Holland towards England, whither she had been forcibly carried
out of Graveling Road by the States' ships of war. Prays for the King's
[Page 096]
letter to the States for recompence, or for leave to transport for Antwerp
along seas by the river of Schelde 25,000 cloths without paying charge,
by which they will suffer no loss as the Archduke has restrained the
bringing into his countries of any cloth that pays any charge to the
States.—Undated.

1 p. (P. 1807.)




Richard Hamerton to the Earl of Salisbury



[1607–8, c.Feb.]

Tenant of the house where the King lodges at
Newmarket. The King granted him a loan of 100l to be repaid by 5
marks a night as he shall stay there. Heavy charges and loss of custom
caused by the King's coming. Cannot go forward unless he has the
help of this 100l.—Undated.

½ p. (P. 575) [Cf Cal. S.P.Dom. 1603–1610, pp. 403, 404].




William Calley to the Earl of Salisbury



1607–8, c.Feb.

As to a bark's lading of cloth cast away on her
return out of Holland, whither she had been forcibly carried out of
Graveling Road by the States' ships of war. Prays for the King's
letters to the States to recompence him, or to give him passport to
transport for Antwerp by the Schelde 25,000 cloths without paying
them any charge, wherein they shall suffer no loss, nor their enemy
receive any advantage, for the Archduke has restrained the bringing
into his countries of any cloth that pays any charge to the States.—
Undated.

1 p. (P. 1574) [Cf. Cal. S.P. Dom. 1603–1610, p. 410.]





Footnotes

1.   (sic) but does not agree with the Fasti, which gives Capcotes or Copcote.













PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















