











House of Commons Journal Volume 6: 5 August 1651 | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


Journal of the House of Commons










House of Commons Journal Volume 6: 5 August 1651










Journal of the House of Commons: Volume 6, 1648-1651. 


Originally published by His Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1802.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. Public Domain. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




'House of Commons Journal Volume 6: 5 August 1651', in Journal of the House of Commons: Volume 6, 1648-1651 (London,  1802), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/commons-jrnl/vol6/pp615-617 [accessed 3 July 2026].





'House of Commons Journal Volume 6: 5 August 1651', in Journal of the House of Commons: Volume 6, 1648-1651(London,  1802), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/commons-jrnl/vol6/pp615-617.





"House of Commons Journal Volume 6: 5 August 1651". Journal of the House of Commons: Volume 6, 1648-1651. (London, 1802), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/commons-jrnl/vol6/pp615-617.














Prev Page 
Next Page




Prev |
Next













Image














Image














Image

















Keyword Highlight

Search






In this section


Tuesday, the 5th Day of August, 1651.
Scotts Prisoners.
Gurney's Fine.
Gurney's Fine.
Door shut.
Gurney's Fine.
Army Estimate, &c.
Ly. Burlace.





Tuesday, the 5th Day of August, 1651.
Prayers.



Scotts Prisoners.
SIR Henry Vane reports from the Council of State,
A Letter from Sir Arthure Hesilrig, of the One-andthirtieth of July 1651, from Newcastle, touching the
Scotts Prisoners.



Ordered, That it be referred to the Council of State,
to take care, that such Provisions be made for the Scotts
Prisoners, now in Duresme Castle, while they shall continue Prisoners there, as is fit for Prisoners of War: And
that the Council of State do take care for the Disposal of
them, as they shall think fit.




Gurney's Fine.
A Certificate from the Commissioners for Compounding, of the Sixth Day of December 1650, was this Day
read; and the Cases of Sir Richard Gurney and Mr.
Thompson, wherein the Commissioners desire Directions
from the Parliament.


The Report of the Case touching Sir Richard Gurney
was read; viz.


According to your Order of the Twentieth of September 1650, in the Case of the Executors of Sir Richard
Gurney, Knight and Baronet, deceased, touching the
Fine of Five thousand Pounds imposed upon him by the
Parliament; we find,


That the Fifth of July 1642, the honourable House
of Commons brought in an Impeachment in the House
of Lords, against the said Sir Richard Gurney; for that
he, on or about the last of June 1642, being then Lord
Mayor of London, in several Places of the said City,
unlawfully and maliciously caused Proclamation to be
made, for the putting in Execution the Commission of
Array, tending to the Raising of Forces against the Parliament, and to the Subversion of the Laws and Peace of
the Kingdom: For which they impeached him in the
Name of the House of Commons, and of all the Commons of England, of High Crimes and Misdemeanors:
And, saving to themselves all Liberties and Advantages
of exhibiting all other Accusations against him, they
desired he may be called to a speedy Answer, in the
Presence of the Commons.




Gurney's Fine.
The Twelfth of August 1642, the Lords, in Parliament assembled, reciting, That whereas Sir Richard Gurney Knight and Baronet, Lord Mayor of the City of
London, hath been impeached by the House of Commons, for causing Proclamation to be made for the Putting in Execution of the Commission of Array; and for
the Framing of Two false and scandalous Petitions, to set
Division between his Majesty and the Parliament, and the
Parliament and City; and for imprisoning certain Apprentices, who had framed a Petition to the Parliament; and
for not punishing or proceeding against certain Rioters or
Misdoers, within the City of London, acted in or about
the Second of February 1641; and for refusing, or neglecting, to call a Common Council, for the Good and
Safety of the said City and Kingdom, being thereunto
commanded by the Authority of both Houses of
Parliament;


The said Lords, having taken the said Charges into
due Consideration, do find, That the said Sir Richard
Gurney, Lord Mayor of the City of London, guilty of
causing the said Proclamation, for putting the Commission of Array in Execution to be published, tending to
the Disturbance of the Peace of the Kingdom; and of
not suppressing the said Riots and Misdemeanors; and of
not calling a Common Council, as he was, by Order of
Parliament, required; and for these Offences; the said
High Court did award and judge, First, That the said
Sir Richard Gurney should be no longer Mayor of the
City of London: Secondly, That he should be thereafter
uncapable to bear any Office in the City of London:
Thirdly, That he should be uncapable to bear or receive
any further Honours thereafter: Fourthly, That he should
be imprisoned in the Tower of London, during the Pleasure of that House: And, accordingly, he was put out
from being Lord Mayor, and committed to the Tower.


That, the Twenty-ninth of November 1642, the Ordinance for Sitting of the Committee for Advance, and for
Assessment of the Fifth, and Twentieth Part, passed both
Houses.


That, in December 1642, Sir Richard Gurney, being
in Prison, was assessed a Thousand Pounds, for his Twentieth Part, at Haberdashers Hall; and, for Default of
Payment thereof, his personal Estate at Gourney House,
London, was sequestred and sold in February 1642; and
Gurney House, and Tenements adjoining, and other his
Estate, was sequestred in 1642, and the Profits received
until the Twentieth of November 1646.


That, the First of April 1643, the Ordinance for Sequestrations of Papists and Delinquents passed both Houses.


That, the Nineteenth of April 1644, the Committee
of Sequestration for London issued out a Warrant to restrain the Rents of Sir Richard Gurney, for that he was
committed a Prisoner to the Tower of London.


That, the Twenty-ninth of July 1644, the Commons,
in Parliament, ordered the Committee in Goldsmiths Hall
to consider of all Prisoners, whose Estates are sequestred;
and to require a List of them, from several Persons that
had the Custody of them; and to consider of raising
Monies, by Compounding with them; and to present
their Opinions, upon the whole Matter, to the House.


The Thirtieth of July 1644, the Committee of Goldsmiths Hall required the Lieutenant of the Tower (amongst
others) to certify the Names of such Prisoners of Quality,
under his Custody, whose Estates were sequestred.


That, by Order of Goldsmiths Hall, of the Twentieth
of August, and Twenty-seventh of August 1644, a Sub
Committee was appointed to consider of the Estates and
Delinquencies of the several Prisoners returned to them;
and, first, to consider of the most wealthy and able Persons;
and to present the Fines fit to be set on them.


The Three-and-twentieth of October 1644, it was resolved by the House, upon the Question, That Sir Richard
Gourney, and divers other Persons therein named, be
admitted to Fine and Composition: And that it be referred to the Committee at Goldsmiths Hall, to treat and
compound with the said Persons; and to report their
Fines to the House.


The Third of March 1644, the Committee of Goldsmiths Hall presented to the House, amongst other things,
the Names of divers Persons upon whom Fines were set
by the Committee of Goldsmiths Hall, according to an
Order of the House of * August 1644; viz.


Sir Richard Gurney Knight, some time Lord Mayor
of the City of London, committed to the Tower by the
Lords, in Parliament, for his Contempt to the House,
and disobeying their Order; and doing such other things,
whereby he shewed his Disaffection to the Parliament,
whose Estate is under Sequestration.


That, the Fourth of March 1644, the House did approve and accept of Five thousand Pounds, for the Fine
of Sir Richard Gurney, for Discharge of his Delinquency,
and Sequestration of his Estate, and Imprisonment.


The Fifteenth of December 1645, the said Committee
for Sequestrations in London ordered the said Sequestration
to be discharged, for that no Cause of Sequestration appeared to them; and the Twelve Pounds by them received, was paid over to the Committee of Haberdashers
Hall, who had seized all the rest of the Tenements.


That, the Second of March 1645, Mr. John Ashe reported to the House, the Answer of Sir Richard Gurney
to the Committee at Goldsmiths Hall, concerning the Fine
of Five thousand Pounds set upon him by the House,
That he obstinately refuseth to pay the same.


That, the Twentieth of November 1646, by Order of
the Committee for Advance, and reciting the former
Assessment of One thousand Pounds, for the Twentieth
Part, and the Sequestration for Non-payment thereof,
and that the said Sir Richard Gurney had given Satisfaction for the same; the said Assessment and Sequestration
for Non-payment thereof, were taken off and discharged;
and the said Estate hath been free from Sequestration ever
since.


That, upon Mr. Ash his Report of the Second of
March 1645, afore-mentioned, of Sir Richard Gurnie's
obstinate Refusal to pay his Fine, we do not find there
was any further Resolution in the Case.-




Door shut.

Resolved, That the Door be shut till Twelve a Clock.-




Gurney's Fine.

Resolved, That this Report be referred to a Committee; to examine the Business; and hear all Parties concerned; and to state the whole Matter of Fact, and report
it to the House: Viz. unto Sir Gilbert Pickering, Lord
Commissioner Lisle, Mr. Love, Mr. Bond, Mr. Moyle,
Alderman Allen, Lord Grey, Mr. Stephens, Mr. Nevill,
Colonel Martin, Mr. Trenchard, Mr. Carew, Colonel
Fielder, Mr. Hodges, Lord Commissioner Whitelock,
Colonel Lister, Alderman Atkins, Mr. Heveningham, Mr.
Dormer, Sir Henry Heyman, Colonel Morley, Mr. Challoner, Mr. Whitacre, Mr. Oldesworth; or any Five of
them: And this Committee are to meet this Afternoon
at Two of Clock, in the Queen's Court; and so de die in
diem.


And Colonel Fielder is to take care of it.




Army Estimate, &c.
Sir Henry Vane reports from the Council of State,


An Estimate of the Pay of Four thousand Men, with
complete Officers, for three Months; viz.












£.


s.


d.



The Pay of Four thousand private Soldiers of Foot for Twenty-eight Days, according to the present Establishment for Pay for the Field Forces, at 10 d. per diem


4,666

13

4



Which for Three Months, will be

14,000

-

-



The said Four thousand Men being made Four Regiments, with complete Officers, the Pay of the said Officers, for One Month, is

1,550

5

4



Which, for Three Months, will be

4,650

16

-



The Whole, both Officers, and Soldiers, for One Month, will be

6,216

18

8



Which, for Three Months, will be

18,650

16

-



Incident Charges of the said Forces, by Estimate

1,500

-

-



In all

£. 20,150

16

-


He likewise reports from the Council of State;


"That the Council, in pursuance of the Order of Parliament the First Instant, taking into Consideration, how
much Money may be had for the Pay of the Four thousand Foot that are now to take the Field, have prepared
an Estimate, herewith offered, of the Charge of the said
Foot; and withal, to offer it to the Parliament, That
they will charge upon the Receipts of Goldsmiths Hall,
for this Purpose, the Sum of Twenty thousand Pounds,
next in Course after the Sixty thousand Pounds lately
charged for the Navy, if the Parliament shall so think
fit."



Resolved, by the Parliament, That the Sum of Twenty
thousand Pounds be appointed for the Pay of the Four
thousand Foot that are lately ordered by Parliament;
with Liberty given to the Council of State, to take into
Pay, for Three Months: And that the same be charged
upon the Receipts of Goldsmiths Hall, next in Course after
the Sixty thousand Pounds, lately charged upon that Receipt for the Use of the Navy: And that the Commissioners for Compounding be authorized and required to
give their Warrants to the Treasurers of that Receipt,
for Payment of the said Sum of Twenty thousand Pounds
to the Treasurers at War; to be by them issued, by
Warrant from the Committee of the Army, for the Service aforesaid: And that the Acquittance and Acquittances
of the said Treasurers at War, or any Two of them, shall
be a sufficient Discharge to the Treasurers at Goldsmiths
Hall for the said Twenty thousand Pounds.




Ly. Burlace.
The Question being put, That the Petition of Dame
Alice Burlace be now read;


The House was divided.


The Yeas went forth.










Sir John Treavor,

Tellers for the Yeas:

21.



Sir Wm. Massam,

With the Yeas,




Sir Henry Vane,

Tellers for the Noes:

23.



Lord Com. Whitelock,

With the Noes,


So it passed with the Negative.


The Lord Commissioner Whitelock reports from the
Council of State, A Bill for the Increase of Shipping,
and Encouragement of Navigation.


Which was this Day read the First time; and, upon
the Question, ordered to be read the Second time on
This-day-sevennight.


















PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















