











Inquisitions Post Mortem, Edward III, Files 17 and 18 | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Volume 7, Edward III










Inquisitions Post Mortem, Edward III, Files 17 and 18










Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Volume 7, Edward III. 


Originally published by His Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1909.






This free content was digitised using optical character recognition. All rights reserved. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




J E E S Sharp,  A E Stamp, 'Inquisitions Post Mortem, Edward III, Files 17 and 18', in Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Volume 7, Edward III (London,  1909), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/vol7/pp174-183 [accessed 3 July 2026].





J E E S Sharp,  A E Stamp, 'Inquisitions Post Mortem, Edward III, Files 17 and 18', in Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Volume 7, Edward III(London,  1909), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/vol7/pp174-183.





J E E S Sharp,  A E Stamp. "Inquisitions Post Mortem, Edward III, Files 17 and 18". Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Volume 7, Edward III. (London, 1909), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/vol7/pp174-183.














Keyword Highlight

Search







Inquisitions Post Mortem, Edward III, Files 17 and 18




243.

THOMAS BARDOLF.




Writ, 30 December, 3 Edward III.



NOTTINGHAM.

Inq. Monday before the Purification, 3 (rectius 4) Edward III.




Stokebardolf. The manor (extent given), including a pasture in summer called Aldenholm, a yearly rent of 40s. for a fishery in the Trent and for a ferry across that river, and a wood in the forest of Shirewode, with the meadows, rents and services pertaining to the said manor in Shelford and elsewhere beyond the Trent, held of the king in chief as of the crown by service of a knight’s fee; and a messuage held of Adam de Everingham by knight’s service, and by suit of the said Adam’s court at Shelford every three weeks.

John his son, aged 17 years and more, is his next heir.




NOTTINGHAM.

Inq. Monday after the Purification, 4 Edward III.




Schelford. A moiety of the manor (extent given), held of the king in chief by service of a moiety of a knight’s fee.

Heir as above, aged 19 years and more.




DERBY.

Inq. Tuesday before the Purification, 3 (rectius 4) Edward III.




Okebroke. A capital messuage, lands and rents (extent given), held of the king in chief as of the crown by knight’s service.

Heir as above, aged 17 years on the day of St. Hilary last.





Writ, 30 December, 3 Edward III.



MIDDLESEX.

Inq. 16 (?) February, 4 Edward III.




Edelmetone. 10a. meadow and 20s. yearly rent, held in chief of Geoffrey le Say by service of 10s. yearly.

Heir as above, aged 16 years and more.




SOUTHAMPTON.

Inq. 29 January, 3 (rectius 4) Edw. III.




Empnesworthe. 100s. yearly rent held of the king in chief by service of a pair of gilt spurs yearly.

Grutham. 1d. yearly rent from the manor, which manor he lately gave to Thomas his son for his life, with reversion to himself and his heirs.

Grutham. The advowson of the church. (This entry seems to be cancelled.)

Heir as above, aged 18 years.




SURREY.

Inq. 14 February, 4 Edward III. (defaced.)




Adyntone. A capital messuage, lands, rent, &c. (extent given), held of the king in chief by service of serving before the king on the day of his coronation three dishes of a certain food called ‘Maupygernon’ viz.—one before the king, the second to the archbishop of Canterbury, and the third to whom the king shall assign it.

Heir as above, aged 16 years and more.


[Page 175]


SUSSEX.

Inq. 26 January, 3 (rectius 4) Edward III.




Birlyngg. The manor (extent given), including a hill pasture for 400 sheep, held of the king in chief by service of a knight’s fee, and rendering 2s. yearly for ‘hundredselver’ to Isabella queen of England at her manor of Ryp, and 5s. yearly to the sheriff of Sussex for ‘shirrefhield’; and 25a. land there called Bremelyngeslond, acquired by the ancestors of the said Thomas, and a hill pasture for 60 sheep, held of the bishop of Chichester by service of a fortieth part of a knight’s fee.

Berewyke and Wengetone. 12l, yearly rent in the manors, which manors are in the hands of John Marmyon, knight, held of the heirs of Hugh de Mortuo Mari of Richard’s Castle in socage, by service of rendering a clove gillyflower yearly.

Heir as above, aged 17 years.




SUSSEX.

Inq. 29 January, [4] Edward [III.] (defective.)




Plumpton. The manor (extent given), including a messuage, 88a. land and 40a. wood and heath in Hodlegh, held jointly by the said Thomas, John his son, and Elizabeth the said John’s wife, of the earl of Warrenne, as of the barony of Lewes, by service of 11 knights’ fees, together with the manors of Bercompe [and Flechynge], by fine levied in the king’s court, for their lives, and to the heirs of the said Thomas: the said John and Elizabeth still survive.

Bercompe and Flechynge. The manors (extent gixen), held jointly with Agnes his wife, who still survives, and the heirs of the said Thomas, of the gift and enfeoffment of Ralph de Howelle, chaplain, except the capital messuage of the said manor of Bercompe, with the wood and all the plot within the great dyke newly made, of which the said Thomas died seised in his demesne as of fee, of the aforesaid earl of Warenne by the service aforesaid.

Heir as above, aged 17 years.




HERTFORD.

Inq. 19 January, 3 Edward III.




Wattone. The manor with certain tenements in the hamlet called Stapelford (extent given), held of the king in chief by serjeanty, by service of a footman with bow and arrows for the king’s war, as well in the parts of Wales as of Scotland, and by service of 4s. 4d. yearly called ‘Schireschot’; and the said manor is charged to Beatrice de Gravele with 66s. 8d. yearly for her life.

Heir as above, aged 16 years and more.




LEICESTER.

Inq. Wednesday after the Purification, 4 Edward III.




Haloughton. The manor (extent given), including a moiety of a market held on Thursday in every week, held of the king in chief, as parcel of a moiety of the manor of Shelford, which is held by service of a moiety of a knight’s fee.

Heir as above, aged 19 years and more




NORFOLK.

Inq. 24 January, 3 Edward III.




Scrowteby. The manor, held jointly with John his son, and Elizabeth the said John’s wife, of the gift and enfeoffment of Simon de Aschele and Gilbert le Fitz Ralph of Hethille, to hold to them and the heirs of the said Thomas, as appears by a fine levied in the king’s court, by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee, of the inheritance of Bartholomew de Huntingfeld, whose heir is within age and in the wardship of the bishop of Norwich.

He died on 15 December in the said year.


[Page 176]


NORFOLK.

Inq. 24 January, 3 Edward III.




Castre by Great Yarmouth. The manor held jointly with Agnes his wife, of the gift and enfeoffment of John de Gurnay and John Haliugton, to them and the heirs of the said Thomas, by fine levied in the king’s court in 7 Edward II, and by the king’s charter, of the king in chief as parcel of the barony of Gurnay.

Date of death as above. Heir as above, aged 18 years.




NORFOLK.

Inq. 25 January, 3 (rectius 4) Edward III.




Cantelee. The manor held jointly with Agnes his wife of the gift and enfeoffment of John de Gurnay and John de Halughton, to them and the heirs of the said Thomas, by fine levied in the king’s court in 7 Edward II, and by the king’s charter, of the king in chief as a parcel of the barony of Gurney.

Date of death and heir as above.




NORFOLK.

Inq. 26 January, 3 (rectius 4) Edward III.




Qwyneberge. The manor held jointly, as above, of the gift and enfeoffment of John de Gurney and John de Halughton, by fine &c. as above, of the king in chief, by service of a knight’s fee.

Date of death and heir as above.




NORFOLK.

Inq. 25 January, 3 (rectius 4) Edward III.




Strumpsh[aw]. The manor, held jointly with John his son and Elizabeth the said John’s wife, of the gift and enfeoffment of Simon de Aschele and Gilbert le Fitz Rauf of Hethille, to them and the heirs of the said Thomas, as appears by the king’s charter dated 25 December, 1 Edward III, of the king in chief by service of doing suit at the hundred of Blofeld every three weeks.

Date of death as above.




NORFOLK.

Inq. 28 January, 3 (rectius 4) Edward III.




Roungeton. The manor (extent given), including a custom called ‘Damtol,’ and yearly rents of 4 ‘curleus,’ 8 ‘plovers,’ 4 ducks, 6 teal, &c. held of the king in chief by service of a knight’s fee, as of the castle of Norwich, and by service of rendering 2s. 4d. for the ward of the said castle at the end of each twenty-fourth week, and 12d. at the said castle for a custom called ‘Waytefee’ at Easter and Michaelmas.

Heir as above, aged 17 years and more.




NORFOLK.

Inq. 28 January, 3 (rectius 4) Edward III.




Wermyngeye. The manor (extent given), including a marsh called Lanedieffen, with fishery and pasture, other marshes lying between Penteneye and a wood, and a heronry in the said wood of Wermyngeye, &c., held of the king in chief by service of a knight’s fee, and by service of paying 7s. at the end of each month yearly for the ward of the castle of Norwich, and 6s. 8d. yearly for ‘Waytefee’ of the said castle.

Fyncham. The manor (extent given), held of the king in chief by service of a knight’s fee.

Stowe. The manor (extent given), including 8a. pasture in a place called Stowecroft, and herbage with a fishery and turbary in a marsh called Stowefen, &c., held of the king in chief by service of a certain serjeanty unknown at present.

There are certain foreign tenants in the said county who hold thirteen knights’ fees and an eighth part of a knight’s fee, for which they are [Page 177]bound to render 26s. 3 1/4d. yearly at the said manor of Wermyngeye, at the end of every 24 weeks, viz.—for each fee 2s. 2d., and that rent is called Castelwarde; the same tenants render yearly 12d. for each said fee at the said manor, which rent is called Waytefe.

Heir as above, aged 17 years and more.




LINCOLN.

Inq. 26 January, 4 Edward III.




Westburgh. The manor (extent given), held of the king in chief as parcel of the barony of Shelford, of which barony the said Thomas held one moiety, and Adam de Everyngham the other moiety; which whole barony defends itself for two knights’ fees. The prior of Shelford receives 20s. yearly from the mill.

Heir as above, aged 19 years and more.




LINCOLN.

Inq. 24 January, 4 (rectius 3) Edward III.




Riskyngton. The manor, with its members viz.—Lesingham and Diggeby (extent given), held of the king in chief as parcel of the barony of Shelford, of which barony the said Thomas held one moiety, and Adam de Everingham the other moiety; which whole barony defends itself for two knights’ fees, rendering 32s. yearly to the king, by the hands of the sheriff of Lincoln for the said manor of Riskyngton.

Heir as above.




BUCKINGHAM.

Inq. 8 February, 4 Edward III.




Houtone by Dunstaple. 60s. 1d. yearly rent from divers tenements held in fee (names of tenants given), held of the king in chief by knight’s service.

Wendovere, Huccote and Bledelawe. 38s. 11d. yearly rent from divers tenements held in fee (names of tenants given), the tenements in Wendovere being held of Robert de Fenes by knight’s service, and those in Huccote and Bledelawe held of the king in chief by knight’s service.

Wendovere and Bledelawe. A yearly rent of two sparrowhawks or 4s. arising from tenements in Wendovere which Thomas de Alta Ripa holds in fee, and which are held of Robert de Fenes by knight’s service; and from tenements in Bledelawe which Reginald de Hampdene, knight, holds in fee of the said Thomas, and which are held of the king in chief by knight’s service.

All the aforesaid tenements so held of the king are held by service of one knight’s fee.

Heir as above, aged 16 years and more.





Extent or summary of the above lands and tenements which were of Thomas Bardolf.










Writ of certiorari de feodis &c. 1 January, 3 Edward III.



ESSEX.

Inq. 15 January, 3 Edward III.




Bradewelle. Half a knight’s fee held by Nicholas Fraunceys.

Bradewelle. The advowson of the church.




HERTFORD.

Inq. 20 January, 3 Edward III.




Stapelford. The advowsons of the church and of a chapel there.

He had no knight’s fees in the county.




SUSSEX.

[Inq.] 29 [January], 3 (rectius 4) Edward III. (defective.)




[Porte]sslade. Ten [knights’ fees], held by John la Warre as of the manor of Plumpton.

[Plumpton.] The advowson [of the church].


[Page 178]


LEICESTER.

Inq. Wednesday after the Purification, 4 Edward III.




Rolleston and Billesdon. A knight’s fee and a half held by Ralph de Wedon, Thomas de Skefynton, and the heirs of Richard de Colssull.

Keythorp. Half a knight’s fee held by Alice Davyd and others.

He held no advowsons of churches in the county.




BEDFORD AND BUCKINGHAM.

Extent, 8 February, 4 Edw. III.




Houton by Dunstaple. A thirteenth part of a knight’s fee held by William de la Souche, knight.

Eyton. A knight’s fee held by the said William.

Wendovere. Half a knight’s fee held by Matthew la Vache; a sixth part of a knight’s fee held by John Neyrnut; and half a knight’s fee held by Roger le Cok.

He had no advowsons of churches in the said counties.




NORFOLK.

Inq. 29 January, 3 (rectius 4) Edward III.




Wrennyngham. The manor held by Robert de Thorp, knight, as of the manor of Wermyngeye, by service of a knight’s fee, and rendering 2s. 2d. called ‘Castleward’ at the said manor, at the end of every twenty-four weeks, and 12d. ‘Waytefee’ yearly.

Derham. The manor held by the heirs of John de Badescroft [or de Bradescroft] and by Thomas Corlu by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee, and rendering at the said manor for ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ according to the quantity of tenure.

Thorplond, Geyton [or Gayton] and Walyngton. A messuage and 100a. land held by Geoffrey de Eston by service of a knight’s fee, and rendering for ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ as above.

Watlington and Longham. The manor held by Geoffrey Bryseyard [or Brisyerd] by service of a knight’s fee and rendering ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ as others aforesaid.

Watlington, Foston, Wallington, Sechethe [or Secheche], and Herdwyk. 300a. land held by Bennedict Russel, the prioress of Blakebergh, Edmund de Mounpyncoun, and the tenants of Watlington, by service of a knight’s fee, and rendering at the same manor for ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ as above.

Fyncham, Derham, Roxham and Fordham. A messuage and 100a. land held by Roger Curpel by service of half a knight’s fee.

Ryngstede. 180a. land held by the same Roger by service of a knight’s fee.

Certon, Mateshalbergh, and Bychamwell. A messuage and 200a. land held by John Lovel by service of a knight’s fee, and rendering ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ as above.

Stradesete. The manor, with 60a. land in Fordham, Rokesham, Barshal and Cisterne, held by Nicholas son of Nicholas de Stradesete by service of two knights’ fees, and rendering ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ according to the quantity of tenure, as above.

Lexham, Dunham and Kemeston. A messuage and 100a. land held by Alan le Rous by service of a knight’s fee, and rendering ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ as above.

Thorpe. The manor, with 40a. land in Bokeswell and Fransham held by the prior of Penteneye by service of a knight’s fee.

Elingham. The manor held by Robert de Elingham by service of two knights’ fees, and rendering ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ as above.

Thirston and Mateshal. A messuage and 60a. land held by John Wace by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee, and rendering ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ according to quantity as above.
[Page 179]

Shepedham, Yaxham, Letton, Mateshal and Reymerston. A messuage and 60a. land held by Robert atte Hawe by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee, and rendering ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ as above.

Esttodenham and Northtodenham. Two messuages and 100a. land held by John de Cokefeld, knight, and Stephen de Estlee, by service of a knight’s fee.

Grimeston. A messuage and 60a. land held by Nicholas Noreman by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee.

Hyndringham. 80a. land held by Hugh de Burgoygnon by service of half a knight’s fee.

Felebrigge. 40a. land held by the same Hugh by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee.

Snyterlee. 120a. land held by Edmund Bakoun and Thomas de Estlee by service of a knight’s fee.

Cokethorpe. The manor held by Roger Bakoun by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee.

Holkham. 50a. land held by William Wake by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee.

Suthberlingham, Northberlingham and Hunstaneston. A messuage and 100a. land held by James Ryhtwys and Thomas son of Adam de Hindringham by service of half a knight’s fee.

Hindringham. A messuage and 40a. land held by William le Nowers by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee; and 40a. land held by Edmund le Chapman and his parceners by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee.

Swanton. The manor held by William de Calthorp, knight, by service of a knight’s fee.

Fyncham. 40a. land held by the same William by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee.

Mendham and Medefelde. Two messuages and 120a. land held by the heirs of Richard Foliot by service of a knight’s fee.

Langele. The manor held by John de Claveryngge by service of two knights’ fees.

Suthelmham and Ilketeleshal. 40a. land held by the abbot of Derham by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee.

Suthelmham. Two messuages and 120a. land held by Robert Raulyn, Roger de Boys, and their parceners, by service of a knight’s fee.

Waterden, Hempton, Barsham, Wyssingsete and Stanefeld. Two messuages and 200a. land held by John Bardolf and his parceners by service of a knight’s fee.

Enhale. The manor held by Joan de Botetourt.

Fulburne. A manor held by William de la Souche.

Houghton, Souht Creyk [or Suthcrek], and Barsham. 160a. land held by John de Cokefeld.

All held by service of two knights’ fees.

Crokeston. The manor held by Humphrey de Boun by service of three parts of a knight’s fee.

Morlee, Wycklewode, Crunthorp, Wymondham, Hakford and Derham. A messuage and 120a. land held by Richard Starcolf by service of half a knight’s fee.

Lirlingge. The manor and 60a. land in Royssheworth, Shadewell and Neuton in Holond, held by Edmund de Goneville by service of a knight’s fee.

Euston. The manor and 200a. land in Toneshal, Feld Dallinge, Estharlinge, Brunham Thorp, Oldelenne, Tytleshal and Bradenham, held by Philip de Virly by service of two knights’ fees.
[Page 180]

Caston. The manor and 100a. land in Rokelound, Tomeston, Bekerton, Toftes, Roundham, Girston and Old Bokenham, held by John de Caston by service of a knight’s fee.

Narburgh. The manor held by William de Narburgh by service of two knights’ fees; and a messuage and 120a. land held by the prior of Wermyngeye by service of a knight’s fee.

Ravyngham and Pallingge. Two messuages and 100a. land held by Thomas Dages by service of half a knight’s fee.

Kimberle. The manor held by Robert de Ufford; and 60a. land held by Robert de Jernemewe.

Bedingham. 60a. land held by Gregory de Castre.

All held by service of half a knight’s fee.

Shathingge. The manor held by John de Gurnay by service of a knight’s fee.

Tilney. A messuage and 50a. land held by the heirs of John Noen by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee.

Tilney and Wygenhal. 160a. land held by the abbot of Derham by service of three parts of a knight’s fee and rendering ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ as above; and two messuages and 200a. land, held by Richard de Cornwaill and the heir [or heirs] of John de Fytton by service of half a knight’s fee, and rendering ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ as above.

Tyrington. The manor held by the same Richard and William Bataille by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee and a half, and rendering ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ as above; and the same Richard held the same manor, which sometime was of Adam de Narburghe, by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee and rendered ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ as above.

Wygenhal. A messuage and 50a. land held by the prior of Barnewell by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee, and rendering ‘Castelward’ as above with ‘Waytefe.’

Wygenhal and Tilney. 80a. land held by the prior of Westacre by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee, and rendering ‘Castelward’ and ‘Waytefee’ as above.

Ty[ring]ton. 20a. land and 50a. of marsh held by William Monek by service of a quarter of a knight’s fee.

Tylney. The advowson of the church.

Morlegh. The advowson of the church.

Westbrigge. The advowson of the church.

Fincham. The advowson of the church of St. Martin.

Rungetone. The advowson of the church.




LINCOLN.

Inq. 23 January, 3 Edward III.




Elsam, Ketelby, Glaunfordebrigge and Wraghby. Two knights’ fees held by Richard de Buselyngthorp [or Boselyngthorp], Walter de Persay and Robert Bretoun of Elsam.

Brynkil. Half a knight’s fee held by William Bretoun.

Claypol. Half a knight’s fee held by Edmund Cressy.

Stubton and Claypol. Half a quarter of a knight’s fee held by Maud Malet, Henry de Fenton and Richard Mott.

Westburgh. Half a quarter of a knight’s fee held by Geoffrey Knyght; 4 bovates of land held by Walter de Thorp, but by what part of a fee is unknown; and a bovate of land held by Robert Petyd, but by what part of a fee is unknown.
[Page 181]

Dunnesby and Brauncewelle. Half a knight’s fee held by William de Mortuo Mari.

Dyrington and Amewyke. A knight’s fee and a half held by John Dyseny of Dyrington, John Ryvelyng, and John de Hyghtyngton.

Dyggeby and Brauncewell. Half a knight’s fee held by Robert de Tylton of Dyggeby.

Dyggeby. Half a knight’s fee held by William son of Robert de la Bourehalle of Dyggeby.

Riskington. A twelfth part of a knight’s fee held by Thomas son of Martin Nicol.

Amewyke. Four bovates of land held by the prior of Kyme, Robert de Wynkele, William Bakstere of Kyme, Alexander Germayne, Robert the clerk, Robert Hervy, John by-the-water, Robert de Denton, William de Amewyke and Helen de la Morehouse; but by what part of a fee is unknown.

Riskington and Roxham. Four bovates of land held by Adam de Cranewelle, but by what part of a fee is unknown.

Riskington. A bovate of land held by John le Warde by knight’s service, for what part of a fee is unknown; and a sixth part of a bovate of land held by Richard the shepherd (bercarius), for what part of a fee is unknown.

Lesyngham. Two bovates of land held by John son of Thomas de Lesingham, for what part of a fee is unknown; and a toft and two bovates of land held by Alice Gylebert, for what part of a fee is unknown.

Riskyngton. Two bovates of land held by Agnes Page, for what part of a fee is unknown.

Lesyngham. A bovate and a half of land held by William Kyle, for what part of a fee is unknown.

Riskyngton. Two bovates of land held by William Thurstan of John de Buselyngthorp, who held them of the said Thomas Bardolf by knight’s service, for what part of a fee is unknown.

Brauncewelle. A toft and two bovates of land held by Elyas Pydelake, for what part of a fee is unknown.

Brauncewelle and Amewyke. Half a knight’s fee held by John de Amewyke.

Stubton. A bovate of land held by Henry de Fenton, Richard Motte and Roger at the church (ad Ecclesiam), for what part of a fee is unknown.

Ouneby. The advowson of the church.

Brynkel. The advowson of the church.

Riskyngton. The advowson of a moiety of the church.

Westburgh. The advowson of a moiety of the church.





Writ of certiorari de feodis, &c. 2 February, 4 Edward III.



NOTTINGHAM.

Inq. Monday after St. Agatha, 4 Edward III.




Carleton, Gedelyng, Colewyk, and Stoke. Half a knight’s fee held by William de Jorcz and Alice de Rufforde.

Gedelyng. The advowson of a moiety of the church.




NOTTINGHAM.

Inq. Monday after the Purification, 4 Edward III.




Neuton. A fourteenth part of a knight’s fee held by John Bret; a sixth part of a knight’s fee held by the prior of Shelford and Henry le Yonge; and a sixth part of a knight’s fee held by Hugh Buntyng.




DERBY.

Inq. Tuesday after St. Agatha, 4 Edward III.




Aylwaldeston, Ambaldeston, and Thurleston. A knight’s fee held by Richard de Wylloughby.
[Page 182]

Aylwaldeston and Thurleston. Half a knight’s fee held by John Swet.

Alwaldeston, Aylwaldeston, Thurleston, Egynton, Ambaldeston [or Ambaleston], and Boleton. Two knights’ fees held by Margaret late the wife of Ralph de Frecheville, and Ralph son of Ralph de Latheburi.

Thurleston. An eighth part of a knight’s fee held by William Nyttynggale.

Alwaldeston and Thurleston. Half a knight’s fee held by Henry de Weston.

Summary of the above knights’ fees in the counties of Norfolk, Leicester, Bedford, Buckingham, Nottingham, Sussex, Essex, Derby, and Lincoln, and of advowsons of churches in the counties of Nottingham, Norfolk, Lincoln, Sussex, Hertford, and Essex, with the variations there given within square brackets.





Writ of certiorari super vero valore to the sheriff of Sussex, 1 March, 5 Edward III.




Whereas Agnes late the wife of the said Thomas Bardolf claimed against John son of the said Thomas and against Elizabeth his wife, a third part of the manor of Plumpton with its appurtenances in Dychenyngg, Wyvelesfeld, Cokfeld, Ertynglegh, Westhodelegh, Lyndesfeld, Smythewyke and Pydynghoo, as her dower of the free tenement of her late husband; and the said John and Elizabeth vouched to warranty John son and heir of the said Thomas, being within age and in wardship of John de Warenna, earl of Surrey, to whom the king had committed the wardship of two parts of the lands &c. of the said Thomas; and the said earl, in the name of the heir, has rendered her said dower to the said Agnes by licence of the king’s court, so that she is to have of the land of the heir to the value of the said dower.




SUSSEX.

Extent, Monday the feast of the Annunciation, 5 Edward III.




Plumpton. The manor (extent given), including a custom of reaping called ‘Gavelrip’ &c., a messuage and garden at Westhodleghe, ten knights’ fees and a quarter in the hands of certain tenants belonging to the same manor, and a church, the advowson of which belongs to the said manor.





Similar writ to the sheriff of York concerning the manor of Herthill, a third part of which the said Agnes claimed against Edmund son of the said Thomas, as her dower &c. 1 March, 5 Edward III.



YORK.

Extent, Tuesday in Easter week, 5 Edward III.




Herthill. The manor (extent given), including pastures called Le Frithe, Aleyngrene, Le Shirhesles, Le Holme, Keysilendes, and Le Hard, profit from underwood and dead wood for making faggots in the park of Northewode, Shirheseles and Le Frith, and half a bovate of land called Le Bordland.





Similar writ to the sheriff of Norfolk concerning the manors of Strompeshagh and Scrouteby, a third part of which the said Agnes claimed against John son of the said Thomas, and against Elizabeth his wife, as her dower &c. 1 March, 5 Edward III.



NORFOLK.

Extent, Wednesday in Easter week, 5 Edward III.




Strumpeshagh. The manor (extent given).

Scrouteby. The manor (extent given).


[Page 183]



Similar writ to the sheriff of Lincoln concerning the manor of Fylyngham, a third part of which the said Agnes claimed against Thomas son of the said Thomas, as her dower &c. 1 March, 5 Edward III.



LINCOLN.

Extent, Wednesday after the Annunciation, 5 Edward III.




Fylyngham [or Felyngham]. The manor (extent given).





Similar writ to the sheriff of Southampton concerning the manor of Gretham, a third part of which the said Agnes claimed against Thomas son of the said Thomas, as her dower &c. 1 March, 5 Edward III.



SOUTHAMPTON.

Extent, 23 March, 5 Edward III.




Gretham. The manor (extent given).





Extent or summary of the manors &c. extended above by divers sheriffs, showing the respective values of two parts and of a third part of the same.










Writ of certiorari to John de Stonore, 13 February, 5 Edward III.




Requiring him if judgment has been delivered in the suit before him and his brethren, justices of the Bench, between the said Agnes and the above-named Thomas, Edmund and John, sons of the said Thomas Bardolf, and Elizabeth the wife of the said John, concerning the third parts of the abovesaid manors, to send to the king the record and process of the said plea.

Transcript of record and process above-mentioned. Dated one month from the day of St. Michael, 4 Edward III.





C. Edw. III. Files 17 and 18.



















PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















