











Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 1001-1050 | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 1, Henry VII










Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 1001-1050










Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 1, Henry VII. 


Originally published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1898.






This free content was digitised using optical character recognition. All rights reserved. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




Maskelyne,  H. C. Maxwell Lyte, 'Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 1001-1050', in Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 1, Henry VII (London,  1898), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/series2-vol1/pp430-451 [accessed 3 July 2026].





Maskelyne,  H. C. Maxwell Lyte, 'Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 1001-1050', in Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 1, Henry VII(London,  1898), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/series2-vol1/pp430-451.





Maskelyne,  H. C. Maxwell Lyte. "Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 1001-1050". Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 1, Henry VII. (London, 1898), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/series2-vol1/pp430-451.














Keyword Highlight

Search








Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 1001-1050






1001


ROBERT GEDDYNG, son and heir of JOHN GEDDYNG.




Writ de Devenerunt 8 Feb., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 20 Sept., 10 Hen. VII.




Thomas Kebyll, John Clopton, Thomas Higham, and John Cheke, being seised of the under-mentioned manors of Lakford, Flempton, and Westowe in fee, by their writing dated 13 Edw. IV gave an annuity of 5l. thereout to Nicholas Geddyng, esq., for the term of his life, and by two other writings dated the same year annuities of 20l. and 20 marks to Margery now wife of Philip Conyars, esq., and Thomasine late wife of the said Robert Geddyng named in the writ respectively.

The said manor of Lakeford is moreover charged from of old with the payment of 14l. to the Master (Richard) of St. Peter’s Hospital, Bury, co. Suff., yearly, for the maintenance of lepers therein, the Master for the time being having the right to distrain when the payment is in arrear.

The said Thomas Kebyll, John Clopton, Thomas Higham, and John Cheke, being seised of the said manors as above, and having granted the said several annuities, by their deed dated 15 April, 13 Edw. IV, demised all the said manors to Anne Geddyng for the term of her life, with remainder after her decease to the said Robert Geddyng named in the writ, in tail.

The said Robert having survived the said Anne entered on the said manors and being seised thereof in fee tail by deed dated 3 Hen. VII gave an annuity of 20s. out of the manor of Lakford to Thomas Underhill for the term of his life. He subsequently by indenture dated 15 Dec., 6 Hen. VII, upon an agreement between him and Robert Drury, esq., for the erection of houses in Lakford at the latter’s expense, enfeoffed John Hevenyngham and Henry Heydon, knts., Roger Drury, Philip Calthorp, Thomas Hevenyngham, William Gurnay, Roger le Straunge, John Garneys, William Stanley, Richard Coote, Robert le Straunge, William Drury, Robert Lee, Thomas Underhyll, Henry Bladwell, Thomas Knyghton, Henry Tornor, and Edmund Lee, esqs., of the said manors to the use and for the term of the life of the said Robert Drury and two years more, and thereafter to the use of himself and his assigns, the rent to be paid him by the said Robert Drury being as follows:—21l. while his own life and the lives of the said Margery, Thomasine, Nicholas, and Thomas Underhill were in being, [Page 431]and after his own death, 6l. 13s. 4d. to his heirs:—26l. 13s. 4d. to his heirs after the death of the said Margery:—40l. to his heirs after the death of both the said Margery and the said Thomasine:—45l. to his heirs after the death of the said Margery, Thomasine, and Nicholas:—and 46l. to his heirs after the death of the said Margery, Thomasine, Nicholas, and Thomas Underhill, to be paid half yearly at the Invention of the Holy Cross and Martlemas. All the said four lives are yet in being.

The said John Geddyng named in the writ was seised of the under-mentioned manor of Great Thyrlowe in fee. It descended on his death to the said Robert Geddyng his son and heir who was then under age, whereby it came to the hands of King Edward IV, and is actually in the now King’s hands.

The said Robert Geddyng died 26 Oct., 9 Hen. VII. Margery, aged 5 and more, is his daughter and heir. Cf. No. 1018.




SUFF. 

Manors of Lakford, Flempton, and Westowe, worth 10s. clear yearly after the said rent is paid, held of Thomas, Abbot of Bury St. Edmunds, by fealty and 3s. rent yearly, for all service.

Manor of Great Thyrlowe, worth 10l., held of the King in chief, by knight-service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (37.) E. Series II. File 607. (7.)





1002


WILLIAM COVERT, esq.




Writ 10 Oct., inq. 20 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 20 Sept. in the year above said, seised of the under-mentioned manors in fee. John Covert, aged 22 and more, is his son and heir.




SURRY. 

Manor of Wyssheley, worth 6l., held of James Urmond, Lord de Urmond, knt., service unknown.

Manor of Hascombe, worth 5l., held of Henry, Earl of Northumberland, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (38.) E. Series II. File 1060 (2.)





1003


WILLIAM COVERT, esq.




Writ 10 Oct., inq. 28 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




Findings as in No. 1002.




SUSSEX. 

Manors of Slaugham and Twynham, worth 10 marks each, held of James Urmond, Lord de Urmond, knt., service unknown.

Manor of Polyng, worth 40s., held of Thomas, Earl of Arundell, by fealty and suit of the honor court of Arundell.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (39.)





1004


THOMAS LANGFORD, esq.




Writ 12 Nov., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 4 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




By deed dated 18 March, 28 Hen. VI, Edward Langford, esq., gave the under-mentioned manor to Thomas Ildesley, esq., Henry Sotehyll, Thomas Holwey, and John Ludlowe for eleven years from Easter then last, with remainder after the expiration of the term to Thomas Langford his son and Margaret daughter of John Roggere, esq., his future wife, and the heirs of the said Thomas begotten on the said Margaret.

After the said term was expired, and after the death of the said Edward, the said Thomas and Margaret his wife, who survives, entered upon the said [Page 432]manor and were seised of it in their demesnes of fee tail and frank tenement respectively.

He died 7 Nov. last. John Langford, aged 22 and more, is his son and heir.




DEVON. 

Manor of Langeford, worth 10l., held of Edward, Earl of Devon, as of the honor of Okhampton, by service of 1/2 of a knight’s fee.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (40.) E. Series II. File 144. (4.)





1005


THOMAS GOWER, knt.




Writ wanting; inq. 6 Sept., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 22 Aug., 1 Hen. VII, seised of the under-mentioned manors and lands in fee. John Gower, of full age, viz. 21 and more at the date of this inquisition, is his son and heir.




YORK. 

Manor of Grendall and a bovate of land in Grendall, worth 8l., held of Ralph Salvan of Newbygyng, by fealty only.

Manor of Stytnam, otherwise called Stitlom, and 3a. land in Stytnam alias Stitlom, worth 40 marks, held of the Prior of Malton, by fealty only.

A messuage and a bovate of land in Warthell, held of the Prebendary of Warthell.

The Manor of Hoton on Derwent, and 2 bovates of land and meadow in Hoton on Derwent, worth 7l., held of the King, by service of 1/5 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of Benethorp and an acre of land in Benethorp, worth 40s., held of Thomas Roos, esq., by fealty and 2d. rent yearly.

A messuage, 8 tofts, 22 bovates of land, 13a. meadow, and 20d. rent in Bolton beside Yapam, worth 6l., held of the King in chief, by service of 1/7 of a knight’s fee.

Two messuages, 30a. land, and 4a. meadow in Newton beside Wynteryngham, worth 26s. 8d., held of the said Thomas Roos, by fealty only.

A messuage, 10a. land, and an acre of meadow in Holtby, worth 3s., held of the Prior of Durham, by fealty only.

A messuage and a bovate of land in Warthell, worth 4s., held of the Prebendary of Warthell, by fealty and suit of the prebendal court there.

A messuage, a dove-cot, and 2a. land in Wystowe beside Kirkham, worth 12s., held of the Prior of Kirkham, by fealty only.

A toft and 3a. land in Huntyngton, worth 18d., held of Robert Holme, by fealty.

A messuage in Newe Malton, worth 10s., held of the Prior of Malton, by fealty only.

Three messuages and a bovate of land in Swynton, worth 40s., held of Henry, Lord de Clyfford, service unknown.

Two messuages and 20 bovates of land in Pokethorp, worth 40s., held of Henry Percy, Earl of Northumberland, service unknown.

A messuage, the site of a water-mill, and 40a. land in Stokton, Carlton, and Sandburn, worth 40s., held of the King in chief, by service of 1/7 of a knight’s fee.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (41.)



[Page 433]


1006


DAVID MORTYMER.




Writ 7 April, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 16 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




At the time of his death he held by the curtesy of England the under-mentioned manor of Martels, a moiety of the manor of Bramley, the advowson of the church of Bramley, and lands in Harwiche and Dovercourte, in right of Elizabeth his wife, daughter and heir of Elizias Doreward.

He was seised of the other moiety of Great Bramley manor called ‘Morleys’ in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed John Squiore, clk., thereof in fee to the use of himself, David, and his heirs; and being so seised the said John enfeoffed William Pykenam, clk., John Reifford, or Reisford, and Henry Teye, esqs., and William Breton and William Teye, ‘gentilmen,’ thereof to the same use.

He died 30 March last. Elizabeth Gylford, aged 18 and more, wife of George Gylford, and daughter of Robert Mortymere, esq., is his cousin and heir.




ESSEX. 

Manor of Martels in Ardelegh, worth 20 marks, held of the King, as of the duchy of Lancaster, service unknown.

A moiety of the manor of Great Bramley, with the advowson of the church of Bramley, worth 20 marks, held of John, Earl of Oxford, service unknown.

Divers lands and tenements in Harwiche and Dovercourte called ‘Mortemers,’ worth 5l., held of the said Earl, service unknown.

A moiety of the manor of Great Bramley, called ‘Morleys,’ worth 20 marks, held of the said Earl, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (42.) E. Series II. File 292. (4.)





1007


JOHN COKET of Ampton.




Writ 8 Sept., inq. 26 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




John Clopton, esq., Robert Thoresby, Hamon Claxton, and Clement Clerk were seised of the under-mentioned manors and lands to the use of John Coket his father and to the use of his last will. By the permission of the said feoffees he being heir to his said father held and occupied the premises during his life in accordance with his father’s will.

He died 30 Aug. last. John Coket, aged 27 and more, is his son and heir.




SUFF. 

Manor of Tymworth, worth 6 marks, the manors of Hopton and Gnateshale, worth 6l., and eight messuages in Ampton, Little Levermer, Barneham, Ingham, Iklyngham, and Tymworth, worth 20l., held of the Abbot of St. Edmund’s, Bury, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (43.) E. Series II. File 607. (4.)





1008


JOHN COKET, of Ampton.




Writ 8 Sept., inq. 25 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




Findings as in No. 1007.




NORF. 

Manors of Narford and Narborough, worth 10 marks, held of the Master of Metyngham College, as of the manor of Lynge, service unknown.

Manor of Great Pagrave, worth 14 marks, held of John Paston, knt. service unknown.
[Page 434]

Manor of Sparham, worth 10l., held of the heirs of Roger Townesende, knt., as of their manor in Sparham, service unknown.

Manor of Little Dunham, worth 18l., held of the Prior of Walsyngham, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (44.) E. Series II. File 607. (3.)





1009


THOMAS BRIGGE.




Writ 9 Sept., inq. 26 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




By deed dated 10 Sept., 1 Hen. VII, William Jekkes, clk., and Edward Calowe gave the under-mentioned manors to him and Margaret his wife, who survives, and the heirs of their bodies, with remainder to his right heirs. They received the King’s pardon for so acquiring the manor of ‘Nogeons’ by letters patent, dated 20 June, 1 Hen. VII. He had no issue by her, and she is now seised of the said manors in fee tail after possibility of issue extinct.

He died at Mannyngton, co. Norf., 26 Aug., last. Everard Brigge, aged 26 and more, is his brother and heir.




NORF. 

Manors called ‘Nogeons’ and ‘Hawes’ in the town of Salle and elsewhere in the hundred of Eynesford, the former, worth 100s., held of the King in chief, service unknown, the latter, worth 5 marks, of William Calthorp, knt., service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (45.) E. Series II. File 607. (12.)





1010


JOHN GRIFFITH.




Writ 19 May, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 26 Sept., 10 Hen. VII.




He died the last day of November last, seised of the under-mentioned messuages and land in fee. Margery Griffith, aged 12 and more, is his sister and heir.




SALOP. 

A burgage with houses built thereon, a pasture called ‘Pole Croft’ containing 20a. land, and a meadow called ‘Syvern Medowe’ containing 8a. meadow in Bruggenorth, worth 26s. 8d., held of the bailiffs and burgesses of Bruggenorth, service unknown.

A messuage, four cottages, 30a. land, and 6a. meadow within the lordship of Neweport, worth 40s., held of Thomas Audeley, brother of the Lord Audeley, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (46.)





1011


JOHN BLANDON.




Writ 16 Oct., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 10 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 13 Oct., 9 Hen. VII, seised of the under-mentioned tenements in fee tail. Robert Blandon, aged 40 and more, is his brother and heir.




SUFF. 

A tenement in Badwell Asfeld, called ‘Odehomes Tenement,’ worth 10 marks, held of the Abbot of Bury St. Edmunds, service unknown.

A tenement called ‘Bales Tenement’ in Bury St. Edmunds, worth 8 marks, held of the said Abbot, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (47.)





1012


JOHN DYNNE.




Writ 30 Jan., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 26 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 28 Nov., 9 Hen. VII., seised of the under-mentioned manor and lands in fee. Robert Dynne aged 40 and more, is his son and heir.
[Page 435]




NORF. 

Manor of Pynkeney, and 300a. land in Taterset and Brounsthorp, held of the King, as of the duchy of Lancaster, by knight-service and by suit of his court of Walbroke in the city of London, held at Martlemas yearly.

A messuage and 110a. land, meadow, pasture, and wood in Heydon, worth 5 marks, held of Henry Heydon, knt., as of his manor there called ‘Loverders’, by fealty and 10s. rent yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (48.)





1013


THOMAS SKREVYN.




Writ 29 Oct., inq. 3 Nov., 10 Hen. VII.




He was seised together with Richard Higham, John Heigham, and others, at the time of his death, of the under-mentioned manor and lands in fee.

He died 8 Oct., 10 Hen. VII. Edward Skrevyn, aged 28 and more, is his son and heir.




SUFF. 

Manor of Shardlowes in Stradeshull, worth 4l., held of Cicely, Duchess of York, as of the manor of Hunden, service unknown.

A tenement in Wykhambrok, worth 40s., held of Clement Heigham, as of the manor of Gyffordes, service unknown.

A tenement called ‘Knyghtes’ in the same town, worth 20s., held of the Earl of Kent, service unknown.

A tenement called ‘Wykhams’ in the said town, worth 20s., held of the Duke of Buckingham, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (49.)





1014


WILLIAM FELTON.




Writ 30 Jan., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 20 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 23 Dec., 9 Hen. VII, seised of the under-mentioned manors and lands in fee. Edmund Felton, aged 32 and more, is his son and heir.




SUFF. 

Manor called ‘Glemsfordes,’ otherwise called ‘Peverell,’ worth 5l., held of John Coltte, esq., as of the manor of Greys in Caundysshe, service unknown.

Manor called ‘Trokettes,’ with a tenement called ‘Bekkes,’ in Boxsted, worth 12l., held of the Abbot of Bury St. Edmunds, service unknown.

Manor called ‘Rougtonnes’ in Troston, worth 6l., held of the said Abbot, service unknown.

A tenement called ‘Palmeres’ in Kedyngton, worth 3l., held of William Berneston, esq., in socage, by service of 4s. yearly.

A piece of land in Caundyssh, together with the advowson of the church of Caundyssh, belonging to the said piece of land, worth 1d., held of the said Abbot, service unknown.

A tenement called ‘Brytmeres’ in Codenham, worth 40s., held of the vicarage of Codenham in socage, by 12d. rent yearly.

A messuage in Sudbury, worth 20s., held of the Lady Cicely, Duchess of York, in socage, by 2s. 4d. rent yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (50.) E. Series II. File 607. (5.)





1015


ROBERT WULFERSTON, esq.




Writ 25 April, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 20 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 18 March, 9 Hen. VII. Thomas Wulferston, esq., aged 38 and more, is his son and heir.




SUFF. 

He held no lands.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (51.) E. Series II. File 607. (2.)



[Page 436]


1016


JOAN STONORE, widow.




Writ 12 Aug., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 1 Nov., 10 Hen. VII.




John Wroughton, esq., was seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee to the use of Thomas Stonore and the said Joan his wife, and the heirs of Thomas. She survived the said Thomas, and the said John became seised of the said manor to her use for life, and she took the issues and profits thereof till her decease. Then the said John became seised of the said manor to the use of William Stonore, knt., son and heir of the said Thomas, and after his death to the use of John Stonore, who survives, son and heir of the said Sir William.

She died 28 Feb. last. The said John Stonore, aged 10 and more, is her cousin and heir, viz. son of the said William her son.




HANTS. 

Manor of Penyton Meysy, worth 20l., held of the King, as of the lordship and hundred of Andever, by fealty and suit of the said hundred at Easter and Michaelmas, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (52.) E. Series II. File 959. (12.)





1017


JOHN WELLES, esq.




Writ de Amotus 6 Oct., inq. 20 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




By deed dated 9 Feb., 15 Edw. IV, Thomas Welles late of Upwell, co. Norfolk, gent., enfeoffed the said John Welles, John Clopton, William Clopton, and Thomas Heigham, esqs., of the under-mentioned manor and advowson in fee. The said John died so seised and the survivors enfeoffed Thomas Welles his son and heir, and Lucy daughter of Robert Wyset now wife of the said Thomas thereof, to hold to them and the heirs of their bodies, with remainder in default to the said Thomas his heirs and assigns.

The said John Welles died on St. Valentine’s day, 21 Edw. IV. The said Thomas Welles, aged 36 and more, is his son and heir.




SUFF. 

Manor and advowson of Todenham, worth 6l. 13s. 4d., held of Thomas, Earl of Urmond, as of the manor of Leyham, by fealty and 3s. 4d. rent yearly, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (53.) E. Series II. File 607. (1.)





1018


ROBERT GEDDYNG.




Writ of Diem clausit 30 Oct., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 20 Sept., 10 Hen. VII.



SUFF. 

Inquisition identical with No. 1001.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (54.)





1019


JOHN WALPOLE.




Writ 26 June, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 24 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 12 April, 9 Hen. VII, seised of the under-mentioned manor and lands in fee. Thomas Walpole, aged 38 and more, is his son and heir.




NORF. 

Manor of Howeton in Howeton, worth 5l., held of John, Earl of Oxford, as of the manor of Wermegey, by knight-service.

A ‘salt cote,’ a messuage called ‘Damettes,’ with a croft containing 15a., and 77a. land, meadow, and pasture in Walpole, worth 5 marks, held of the Bishop of Ely, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (55.) E. Series II. File 607. (13.)



[Page 437]


1020


JOHN WALPOLE.




Writ 26 June, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 26 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




Findings as in No. 1019.




SUFF. 

Manor called ‘Hovell’ in Weybred, worth 5l., held of William Calthorpe, knt., as of the manor called ‘Weybred Hall,’ by knight-service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (55*.)





1021


ANNE, sometime the wife of JOHN COLVYLE, knt., and late the wife of ROBERT BRANDON, knt.




Writ 16 July, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 20 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




John Colvyle, knt., demised the under-mentioned manors and lands to William Calthorpe, knt., who is still living, and others now deceased, for the term of the life of the said Anne then his wife to the use of himself and the said Anne. On his death the reversion of the said premises descended to Francis Colvyle his son and heir, and on the death of the said Francis, 28 Feb., 8 Hen. VII, it descended to Richard Colvyle his son and heir, who is in the King’s custody.

She died 6 July last. The said Richard Colvyle, aged 14 and more, is her cousin and heir, viz. son of the said Francis her son and heir.




NORF. 

Manors of Walsoken and Walpole Ryftoft, and a messuage and 21a. land in Walpole, worth 20l., held of John, Bishop of Ely.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (56.)





1022


WILLIAM BAKER.




Writ de Amotus 29 June, 9 Hen. VII; inq. the last day but one of October, 10 Hen. VII.




Nicholas Herome being seised of the under-mentioned manor of ‘Nether Halle’ in fee enfeoffed Edmund Bedyngfeld, knt., Henry Spelman, Simon Blake, the said William Baker, and Ralph Danyell, clk., thereof, to the use of the said William Baker and of his last will. By his last will the said William gave the said manor to John Baker his son in fee.

Geoffrey Bysshop, clk., being seised of the under-mentioned messuages called ‘Newgates’ and ‘Richowdes’ in fee enfeoffed the said William Baker, John Keche, John Robhode and John Hert thereof to the same use. By his last will the said William gave the said messuages to William his son in fee.

Robert Benet son and heir of John Benet, being seised of the under-mentioned messuage and land in Grymston in fee, enfeoffed the said William Baker, Edmund Bedyngfeld, knt., Henry Spelman, Francis Calybut, and William Fyssher thereof to the same use. By his last will the said William directed that the said premises should be sold by his executors for the benefit of his soul and the soul of Margery his wife.

He died 12 March, 6 Hen. VII. John Baker, aged 30 and more, is his son and heir.




NORF. 

Manor called ‘Nether Halle’ in Hyllyngton, with its members and appurtenances there and in Congham, Grymston, Fliccham, and Appylton, worth 5 marks, held of the Prior of Penteney as of the manor of Curpelles in West Dereham, by fealty and 7d. rent at Easter and Michaelmas yearly.

Two messuages called ‘Newgates’ and ‘Richowdes’ in Est Walton, West Acre, and Ayleswythorp, held of Prior of West Acre.
[Page 438]

A messuage and 30a. land in Grymston, worth 13s. 4d., held of Thomas Wodehous, esq., as of his manor in Grymston, by fealty and 3s. rent at Easter and Michaelmas yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (57.)





1023


HUGH ASSHELEY.




Writ de Amotus 10 Sept., inq. 29 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




By deed dated 20 May, 3 Hen. VII, he enfeoffed William Filoll, John Holte, William Long, John Rumsey, Richard Assheley, and Thomas Wuluen of the under-mentioned manor of Parkestone, who by deed dated 5 Feb., 4 Hen. VII, enfeoffed him and Elizabeth his wife, who survives, thereof to hold to them and his heirs and assigns.

He died 29 April, 8 Hen. VII, seised of the under-mentioned manor and advowson of Up Wymborn St. Giles, in fee. Henry Assheley, aged 3 and more, is his son and heir.




DORSET. 

Manor and advowson of Up Wymborne St. Giles, worth 13l. 6s. 8d., held of the King, as of the manor of Craneborne, parcel of the honor of Gloucester, by service of 1/2 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of Kyneston, or Parkestone, worth 15l., held of the manor of Caneford, co. Dorset, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (58.)





1024


HUGH ASSHELEY.




Writ de Amotus, 13 Sept., inq. 28 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 29 April, 8 Hen. VII, seised of the under-mentioned manor and lands in fee. Henry Assheley, aged 3 and more, is his son and heir. His wife Elizabeth survives.




WILTS. 

Five messuages, four tofts, three crofts, two moors, four burgages, four places of land, 100a. land, 10a. meadow, 20a. pasture, and 3a. wood in Trowbrigge, worth 5 marks, held of the King, as of the honor of Trowbrigge, as of the duchy of Lancaster, by 74s. 1/2d. and half a farthing and 2 lb. pepper rent at Easter and Michaelmas yearly, for all service.

Manor of Assheley beside Bradford, and a carucate of land and 4a. wood in Assheley, and a capital messuage, 10a. meadow, and a carucate of land in Budbury, worth 4l., held of the Abbess of Shaftesbury, as of the manor of Bradford, service unknown.

Ten tenements and ten tofts in Salisbury, worth 100s., held of the Bishop of Salisbury, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (59.) E. Series II. File 959. (5.)





1025


WILLIAM BREWESE, esq.




Writ de Amotus, 29 June, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 24 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




Philip Lepeyate, formerly rector of Salle, and Thomas Cardmer, formerly rector of Heydon, demised the under-mentioned manor and advowsons to Thomas Brewes, knt., now deceased, and Elizabeth his wife, who survives, for the term of their lives in survivorship, with remainder to John Heydon and William Debenham, esq., now deceased, and Robert Hastynges and others, who survive, to the use of the last will of the said Thomas Brewes.

By virtue of which demise the said Thomas and Elizabeth were seised of [Page 439]the said manors and advowsons in their demesne as of frank tenement, and being so seised, Ralph Shelton, Robert Brewes the younger, who survive, and others, are inter alia enfeoffed thereof to the use of the last will of the said Thomas, which is as follows:—He willed that the said Elizabeth should have the said manor for the term of her life without impeachment of waste, with remainder after his and her decease to William Brewes his eldest son in tail male, on condition he ratified and confirmed the said will by the executors’ advice, and that neither he nor his heirs vexed, impleaded, or disturbed the said Elizabeth, or her issue by the said Thomas, touching the said will. Otherwise he willed that the said Elizabeth should sell, or dispose of, the said manor at her pleasure, and that his feoffees should make an estate thereof to her.

Thomas Brewes died 17 June, 22 Edw. IV, and the said Elizabeth has taken all the issues and profits of the said manor since his death. During this time the said William, and since his death his daughters Thomasine and Anne, have vexed and disturbed the said Elizabeth by entering on these and other lands and in many other ways.

He died 20 May, 5 Hen. VII. The said Thomasine and Anne aged respectively 30 and more, and 18 and more, are his daughters and heirs.




NORF. 

Manor of Stynton Hall, worth 10 marks, held of ……. Duchess of Norfolk, by fealty only, for all service.

The advowsons of the churches of Salle and Heydon.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (60.) E. Series II. File 607. (14.)





1026


THOMAS LYE.




Writ 30 Jan., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 20 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 10 Nov., 9 Hen. VII, seised of the under-mentioned manor and advowson in fee. Robert Lye, esq., aged 50 and more, is his brother and heir.




NORF. 

Manor of Surlyngham in Surlyngham, worth 20 marks, with the advowson of the church of Bramerton, with their appurtenances in Surlyngham, Bramerton, Rokelond, Kyrkeby Bydon, Yelverton, Byskley, Framyngham, Porynglond, Kesewike, Claxton, and Cryngelford, held of Thomas, Lord Dacre of Gillyslond, co. Cumberland, by knight-service, quantity unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (61.) E. Series II. File 607. (15.)





1027


JOHN MORE.




Writ 26 April, 9 Hen. VII; inq., 28 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




He and Richard More, esq., being seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, gave it to Edmund Newneham, ‘gentilman,’ in fee, on the condition that he, his heirs, and assigns, should pay them and the heirs of John 9l. 16s. at Michaelmas and Lady-day yearly.

By another deed, dated 26 Oct., 20 Edw. IV, they gave the said yearly rent of 9l. 16s. to George More, esq., now deceased, son of the said John, and to Margaret his wife, who survives, daughter of George Newport, esq., to hold to them and the heirs of his body for ever.

The said John More died 1 April, 9 Hen. VII. John More, aged 10 and more, is his cousin and heir, viz. son of the said George More his son.




N’HAMP.

Manor of Newbold, worth 40s., held of Joan, Prioress of Catesby, co. N’hamp., service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (62.)



[Page 440]


1028


ROGER TOUNESHEND, knt.




Writ 3 Feb., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 29 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




William Tendale, knt., and Mary his wife, being seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, enfeoffed him, William Tendryng and William Gurney, esqs., and Edmund Harberd, clk., thereof, to his use and to the use of his heirs and assigns.

By his last will he bequeathed the said manor, after the death of Eleanor his wife, to Thomas Touneshend his son, when he should come to his full age, in tail, with remainder in default for sale by the executors of the said Eleanor his executrix, for the benefit of his and her souls, and the souls of their friends and benefactors for whom they are most bounden.

He died 9 Nov., 9 Hen. VII, …. Towneshend, aged 16 and more, is his son and heir.




BEDF. 

Manor of Sharpenhoo, worth 100s., held of the King, as of the hundred of Flytte, by service of 2s. at Easter and Michaelmas yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (63.)





1029


JOHN HANSECOMBE.




Writ 6 Dec., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 27 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




He died Friday after Martlemas last seised of the under-mentioned lands in fee. William Hanscombe, his son and heir, is under age, viz. eight years old and no more.




BEDF. 

A messuage and 40a. land and meadow in Great Holwell, worth 8 marks, held of the King in chief, by service of 2d. yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (64.)





1030


WILLIAM STONORE, knt.




Writ wanting; inq. 1 Nov., 10 Hen. VII.




John Wroughton, esq., was and is seised of the under-mentioned manors of Stonore, &c. in fee, to the use of the said William Stonore and his heirs.

He died 21 May last seised of the under-mentioned lands in Pedenals, &c., in fee, having by his deed dated 12 April, 8 Hen. VII, charged the said lands called ‘Padenalls’ with an annuity of 40s. for one Ralph Vyne. John Stonore, aged 10 and more, is his son and heir.




OXFORD. 

Manor of Stonore, worth 40 marks, held of Arthur, Prince of Wales, Duke of Cornwall, and Earl of Chester, as of the honor of Walyngford, by knight-service.

Manor of Watcombe, worth 40 marks, held of the said Prince, as of the said honor, by knight-service.

Eight messuages, 120a. land, 20a. meadow, 20a. wood, 36s. 5d. rent, and a horse-mill in Watlyngton, worth 20s., held of the said Prince, as of the said honor, by knight-service.

A messuage, 80a. land, 20a. meadow, and 40a. wood in Hoo, worth 13s. 4d., held of the said Prince, as of the said honor, by knight-service.

A water-mill in Cuxham, worth 4 marks, held of the said Prince, by fealty.

Seven shillings and eleven pence rent in Thame, held of the Bishop of Lincoln, as of the manor of Thame, by fealty only, for all service.

A messuage and 20a. land in Reycote, worth 5s., held of Richard Fowler, by fealty only, for all service.
[Page 441]

Two hundred acres of land and 100a. wood in Pedenals, or Padenals, or called ‘Padenals,’ or ‘Padenalls,’ worth 40s., held of the Abbot of Abyngdon, as of the manor of Leukenore, by fealty and 5s. rent, for all service.

A toft, 70a. land, and 10a. meadow in Cleyarre, worth 20s., held of the said Prince, as of the said honor, by knight-service.

Two parts of the manor of Parkes and the alternate presentation of the church of Bryghtwell, worth 40s., held of John Cotysmore, esq., as of the manor of Est Bryghtwell, by fealty, for all service.

Thirty acres of land and 60a. wood called ‘Alsyn Afelles,’ or ‘Affalys,’ in the parishes of Bikkes Gibbyn, Rotherfeld Grey, and Rotherfeld Pyperd, worth 10s., held of the said Prince, as of the said honor, by knight-service.

Seven messuages, seven gardens, and 6a. meadow in Nethelbede, or Netelbedd, worth 20s., held of the said Prince, as of the said honor, by knight-service.

A messuage, a garden, 20a. land, and a horse-mill in Thyrvyle, worth 5s., held of John Boteler, knt., by fealty only, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (65.)





1031


WILLIAM STONORE, knt.




Writ wanting; inq. …., 10 Hen. VII.




Thomas Davy, clk., being seised of the under-mentioned manors and advowsons of Dudcote, &c., in fee to the use of Thomas Stonore and his heirs, enfeoffed John Hampden, John Boteler, William Bekinham, and John Lydyard, esqs., and Richard Bedford and Henry Doget, now deceased, and John Wroughton, esq., who survives, thereof, to the same use. The said Thomas Stonore had issue William Stonor, knt., named in the writ, and died, and the surviving feoffee John Wroughton was seised of the premises to the use of the said William and his heirs, till the said William, 2 May …. disturbed his possession in the manors of Dudcote and Sotwell St. John, and disseised, expelled, and removed him therefrom, whereby the said William became seised of the said two manors in fee, and the same day enfeoffed Walter Elmys, Thomas Ramesey, and Robert Knody, clk., vicar of the parish church of Lewkenore, thereof, to the use of himself and his heirs; but the said John Wroughton continued, and is now, seised of the other manors and advowson to the use of John Stonore and his heirs.

The said William Stonore died 21 May last seised of the under-mentioned manor of Benschevys and land in ….., Thele, and Mapaldurham, in fee. The said John Stonore, aged …, is his son and heir.




BERKS. 

Manor and advowson of Dudcote, worth 40 marks, held of Arthur, Prince of Wales, as of the honor of Walyngford, by knight-service.

Manor of Sotwell Synt John, worth 10 marks, held of the King, as of the hundred of Morton, by fealty and 2 …., for all service.

Manor of Sotwell Stonore, worth 20l., held of the Bishop of Winchester, as of the manor Bryghtwell ……

Manor of Mychellescourt, held of Charles Vale, by fealty only, for all service.

Manor of Paynellescourt, and eight messuages, 110a. land, and 26a. meadow in Burwardescourt, with the advowson of the church of Burwardescourt, worth 40 marks, held of the said Charles. ….

Manor of Benschevys, a messuage, a garden, …, in ….., two messuages and two gardens in Thele, and a messuage and 100a. land in Mapulderham, worth 12l., held of the Abbot of Redyng, by fealty only, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (66.)



[Page 442]


1032


JOHN MORE.




Writ 1 May, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 20 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




The said John More, esq., died 18 Nov., 9 Hen. VII., seised of the under-mentioned messuages and land in fee tail. John More, son of George his son, is his cousin and heir, aged 8 and more.




WARW. 

Three messuages, 6 tofts, 100a. land, 20a. pasture, 12a. meadow, 4a. wood, and 20s. rent in Napton-on-the-Hill, worth 33s. 4d., held of Henry Broun, by 12d. rent yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (67.) E. Series II. File 1115. Part I. (3.)





1033


THOMAS GRYGGES.




Writ de Amotus 24 Oct., inq. the last day but one of October, 10 Hen. VII.




The said Thomas Gryggez, being seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, enfeoffed John Paston and Terry (Tironem) Robeshard, knts., Richard Southwell, esq., Simon Daunne, and Thomas Stede thereof, to the use of himself and his heirs and of his last will.

Richard Mounteyn being seised of the under-mentioned messuage and land in fee enfeoffed Thomas Dawbeney and Thomas Mors thereof to the use of the said Thomas and of his last will.

By his last will he directed that his executors should take the profits of the said manor and lands for nine years to pay his debts and for charitable works for his soul; and that after that term Aubrey his son should have the said premises in tail, with remainder to Alice daughter of him the said Thomas in tail, with remainder to his right heirs.

He died 12 Aug., 9 Hen. VII. The said Aubrey (Albricus) Grygges, aged 19 and more, is his son and heir. Thomas Stede and Robert Gryggys are the executors of his will.




NORF. 

Manor of Hyl Halle in Holkham, held of the King, as of the manor of Wighton, parcel of the duchy of Lancaster, by fealty and 5s. rent at Easter and Michaelmas yearly, for all service.

A messuage, 100a. land, and 20a. pasture in Holkham, worth 40s., held of William Boleyn, knt., as of the manor called ‘Borow Halle’ in Holkham, by fealty and 2s. rent at Easter and Michaelmas yearly, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (68.) E. Series II. File 607. (11.)





1034


WILLIAM COVERT, esq.




Writ 16 Oct., inq. 12 Nov., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 20 Sept. last seised of the under-mentioned manor and land in fee. John Covert, aged 22 and more, is his son and heir.




ESSEX. 

A third part of the manor of Sutton, worth 5 marks, held of the Prior of Prytwell, service unknown.

Divers lands and tenements in Maylond, held of the Abbot of St. Osyth, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (69.) E. Series II. File 292. (8.)



[Page 443]


1035


RICHARD SHELDON.




Writ 12 Aug., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 6 Nov., 10 Hen. VII., taken by virtue of a writ, sewn to the inquisition, [dated] Thursday before Michaelmas the said year; delivered to the Court 21 Nov. the same year.




John Sturgeon, esq., being seised of the under-mentioned manors of Kyngiswod Bury and Mundens and of the under-mentioned messuages and lands in Baldok, &c., in fee, enfeoffed John Mordaunt, Richard Godfrey, Geoffry Downes, John Clerk, William Pulter, Thomas Eston the elder, Nicholas Mattok, and John Skotte, thereof in fee to the use of the said Richard Sheldon and of his last will.

John Henxworth and Elizabeth his wife being seised of the under-mentioned manor of Glytton in fee enfeoffed Richard Godfrey, John Pulter, and Thomas Eston thereof in fee to the same uses.

He died 22 August last. Richard Sheldon, aged 24, is his son and heir.




HERTS. 

Manors of Kyngiswod Bury and Mundens, worth 13l. 6s. 8d., held of the Abbot of St. Peter’s, Westminster, by 20s. rent yearly, other services unknown.

Two messuages, four cottages, two tofts, and 6a. land in Baldok, worth 100s., held of the Prior of St. John of Jerusalem in England, by 6s. 6d. rent yearly, for all service.

Three tofts and 100a. land in Clothale, worth 40s., held of the said Abbot of Westminster, service unknown.

Sixty acres of land in Weston, worth 20s., held of Elizabeth, Duchess of Norfolk, by 6s. rent yearly, other services unknown.

One hundred acres of land in Wyllyon, worth 20s., held of Robert Broughton, knt., service unknown.

Five acres of land in Walyngton and four acres of land in Bygrave, worth 6s. 8d., held of Philip Applyerd, esq., service unknown.

Manor of Glytton, worth 100s., held of the Abbot of the Monastery of ….





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (70.) E. Series II. File 292. (7.)





1036


JOHN WYNTER, esq.




Writ wanting; inq. the last day of July, 10 Hen. VII.




He died seised of the under-mentioned manors called ‘Curlue’ and ‘Turtevyles’ in fee.

He and Thomas Brampton were seised of the under-mentioned tenement called ‘Estes’ in fee, to his use.

He and Margaret his wife were seised at his death of the under-mentioned manor of Irmynglond and the advowson of St. John’s, to them and the heirs of his body, with remainder in default to the heirs of the bodies of Edmund Wynter, esq., and Olive his wife.

John Heydon, Roger Straunge, and William Gurnay the younger, esqs., and Thomas Langdon, were seised of the under-mentioned manor of Wynter Bernyngham with the advowson of St. Mary’s in fee, to his use.

He died 5 March last. Henry Wynter, aged 10 and more at the time of his death, is his son and heir.




NORF. 

Manor called ‘Curlue’ in Styvekey, worth 4l., held of Henry Heydon, knt., by 1/2 of a knight’s fee.
[Page 444]

Manor called ‘Turtevyles’ in Styvekey, worth 100s., held of the said Henry Heydon, by 1/2 of a knight’s fee.

A tenement called ‘Estes’ in Styvekey, worth 20s., held of the said Henry Heydon, by 1/2 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of Irmynglond in Styvekey, worth 10 marks, with the advowson of the church of St. John the Baptist of the same town, held of the said Henry Heydon, by service of one knight’s fee.

Manor of Wynter alias Toun Bernyngham, worth 20 marks, with the advowson of the church of St. Mary in the said town, held of the heirs of Richard de la Rokell, by three parts of a knight’s fee.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (71.) E. Series II. File 608. (2.)





1037


ROBERT TAILBOYS, knt.




Writ wanting; inq. the last day but one of May, 10 Hen. VII.




He died seised of the under-mentioned manor of Sotteby in fee, and of the advowsons of the under-mentioned priories in ….

He and one John Gygour, clk., Warden of Tatteshale College, were seised of the under-mentioned manors of Kyme, Faldyngworth, &c., and lands in Spaldyng, &c., in fee, and being so seised by deed dated at Kyme, 2 Jan., 9 Hen. VII, demised them inter alia to Richard, Bishop of Durham, William, Bishop of Coventry and Lichfield, William Huse, knt., chief justice of the King’s bench, Thomas Fitzwilliam, knt., Geoffrey Symeon, Chancellor of Lincoln, Thomas Welby, esq., Thomas Wymbysh, esq., John Coteler, clk., William Cotelerd, and Everard Pynchebek, by the description of all their castles, manors, lordships, lands, &c., in the county of Lincoln, the manor of Sotteby, which is held of the King in chief, excepted, in fee, to the use of his last will.

By his last will he directed his said feoffees to enfeoff William Taylboys, one of his sons, of the manors of Faldyngworth and Mertringham, the advowson of Faldyngworth excepted, for the term of his life, with reversion to themselves to the use of the right heirs of him the said Robert; to make a like estate of the manor of Fryskeney, lands in Spaldyng, Weston, and Pynchebek, and a pasture in Kyrkton in Holand, to John Tailboys, another of his sons, the villeins of the said manor excepted; and to make a like estate of the manor of Aswardby with lands in Aswardby, Osburnby, &c., the advowsons thereto belonging excepted, to Richard Tailboys, another of his sons, with the like reversion in each case to the use of his right heirs.

Further by his last will he directed that his said feoffees should continue enfeoffed of the manor of Crofte to the use of his executors, to the intent that they might defray his debts, legacies, and the expenses of his will, out of the issues and profits of it.

Also by his last will he directed that such lands as he had bought and which had not descended to him from his ancestors, and of which he had not otherwise disposed, should be leased, or sold, for the good of his soul.

William Huse, knt., John Gygour, clk., and Thomas ….., together with others now deceased, were seised, 10 Aug., 1 Ric. III, of the under-mentioned manors of Claxby and Slotheby in fee to his use, until they were thereof disseised by Henry, Earl of Northumberland.

He died the last day but one of January last. George Tailboys, esq., aged .., is his son and heir. The said William, John, and Richard Taylboys, his sons, are yet alive.
[Page 445]




LINC. 

Manor of Sotteby, held of the King in chief, by service of 1/2 of a knight’s fee. There are within the site of the said manor a dovecot worth 2s. yearly, a chamber, a kitchen, a garden, an ox-house, and a sheepcote, which together with the other things within the said site are worth. …. And there are in the said manor a carucate of land worth 12s., 42a. meadow worth 4d. each, a rent of 20s. from the free tenants, a rent of 12l. 10s. 3d. from the villeins tenants of the said manor payable at Christmas, Easter, St. Botolph’s, and Michaelmas, boon-work at seed-time, winter, and Easter worth 3s. 4d., and autumn boon-work worth 6s. 8d. There are two courts of view of frank-pledge held at Easter and Michaelmas and another court held every three weeks, the pleas and amercements whereof are worth one year with another 4s.

The patronage of the Priory of St. Mary, Bolyngton, of the Gilbertine order, and of the Priory of St. Mary, ……, of the Augustinian order, tenure unknown; their value consists in the prayers, suffrages, and other pious works daily performed by the canons there for the souls of the said Robert and his ancestors.

Manor of South Kyme, worth 30l., and the manor of North Kyme, with their members and appurtenances in Amwyke, with ‘le Brent Fen’ in Amwyke, Swyneshed, Iwardby, Conyngesby, Byllyngey, Dokdyke, Walcote beside Byllyngay, Byker, and ….., held, the manor of South Kyme of William, Viscount Beaumount, as of the castle and manor of Folkyngham, co. Linc., and the lands in Conyngesby, worth 16s., of the Warden of the College of the Holy Trinity, Tatteshale.

Manor and advowson of Faldyngworth, worth 16l., held of the King, as of the duchy of Lancaster, as of the fee of ‘Le Hay,’ service unknown.

Manor of Metringham, or Mertringham, worth 6 …, held of [Arthur, Prince of Wales] Earl of Chester, as of the earldom of Chester, service unknown.

Manor of Fryskney, worth 22l., held of the King, as of the duchy of Lancaster, as of the honor of …., service unknown.

Manor of Aswardby with its members and appurtenances in Osburnby, Asgardby, Swarby, and Helpryngham, worth 22l., with the advowsons of the parish churches of Aswardy and Asgardby belonging to the said manor, held of William, Viscount Beaumont, as of the castle and manor of Folkyngham, co. Linc., service unknown.

Manor of Crofte with its members and appurtenances in Wynthorpe, ‘Burgh in le marssh,’ and Braytoft, [worth 184l.], held of the said Viscount Beaumont, as of the said castle and manor, service unknown.

Manor of Waynflett, or Waynflete, worth 6l., held of the King, as of the duchy of Lancaster, as of the honor of ….., service unknown.

Manor of Elkyngton, worth [12l.], held of Henry, Earl of Northumberland, as of the manor of Long Ludford, service unknown.

Manor of Baumburgh, worth 14l., held of William, Viscount Beaumont, as of the castle and manor of Folkyngham, co. Linc., service unknown.

Manor of Golthaugh, worth 20l., and the manor of Skeldynghope, worth 24l., held severally of the King, as of the duchy of Lancaster, as of the fee of ‘Le Hay,’ service unknown.

Manors of Ingham, or Yngham, and Cotes, worth 4l., held severally of …, service unknown.
[Page 446]

….. messuages, 20a. land, and 60a. pasture in Spaldyng, Pynchebek, and Weston, worth 33s. 4d., held of Robert Markham, knt., as of the manor of Cressy Hall, …..

Four acres of pasture late Robert Huchynson’s in Kyrkton in Holand, worth 18s., ……, forty cottages, twenty tofts, 100a. land, 400a. meadow, 1,000a. pasture, and 3l. rent in Algerkyrke [worth 4s.], Sutterton worth ….., Swyneshed [worth 20s.], Byker worth 16s. 8d., Quadryng worth 16s., and Skyrbek worth ….s., held, when not parcel of any of the aforesaid manors, of Margaret, Countess of Richmond, severally, as of the manor of ….., service unknown.

Lands and tenements in South Kyme, worth 16s., held of the said Viscount Beaumont, service unknown.

Lands and tenements in Wragby, worth 6s. 8d., held of Yvo Sandon, as of the manor of Wragby, co. Linc., service unknown.

Lands and tenements in Bolyngton, Hakthorn, and Fristhorp, worth …., held of the Abbot of Barlynges, service unknown.

Lands in Kirketon in Lyndesey, worth 5s., held of Arthur, Prince of Wales, as of the duchy of Cornwall, service unknown.

Manors of Claxby and Slotheby, worth ., ., held of John, Viscount Welles, as of the manor of Welles, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (72.)





1038


MARGARET GRENE, widow.




Writ 13 April, inq. the Saturday after Corpus Christi day, 10 Hen. VII.




She and William Grene, esq., her late husband, being seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, gave it by fine levied 20 Edw. IV to William Fynderne, knt., Thomas Tyrell, esq., Henry Teye, esq., Humphrey Tyrell, esq., Richard Bendyshe, esq., and Thomas Hall, clk., with warranty against her heirs, the King’s licence being duly obtained.

She survived the said William and died the last day of March last. John Grene, aged 30 and more, is her son and heir.




SUFF. 

Manor of Ixnyng called ‘Coggeshales,’ worth 20 marks, held of the King in chief, by service of one knight’s fee.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (73.)





1039


MARGARET GRENE, widow.




Writ 13 April, inq. Friday after St. Botolph the Abbot, 10 Hen. VII.




She died the last day of March last, seised of the under-mentioned moiety of the manor of Great Sampforde, &c., and of the manor of Bloys in fee tail, and of the under-mentioned moiety of the manor of Little Sampford in fee. John Grene, aged 30 and more, is her son and heir.




ESSEX. 

A moiety of the manor of Great Sampford, and of 308a. arable, 19 1/2a. meadow, 12a. wood, and 103s. 0 1/2d. rent in the said county, worth 10l., held of the King in chief, by service of 1/2 of a knight’s fee.

A moiety of the manor of Little Sampford, worth 10 marks, and the advowson of the church of the town of Little Sampford belonging to the said moiety, held of Cicely, Duchess of York, as of the honor of the castle of Clare, service unknown.
[Page 447]

Manor of Bloys, worth 6l., held of John, Earl of Oxford, as of the honor of Hengham at Castle, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (74.)





1040


THOMAS MOUNTGOMEREY, knt.




Writ 7 Jan., inq. 9 May, 10 Hen. VII.




John, Archbishop of Canterbury, late Bishop of Ely, John Dynham, Lord de Dynham, and others, being seised of the under-mentioned manors of Falkborne, &c., in fee, enfeoffed him and Lora, Lady Moungjoy, his wife, who survives, thereof for the term of their lives without impeachment of waste.

Thomas Tirell, knt., and William Grene enfeoffed him, Humphrey Tirell, and others, who survive, of the under-mentioned manor of Braksted to the use of his last will.

Robert Underwode and Thomas Mouurton, clks., and others, enfeoffed him, Humphrey Tirell, and others, who survive, of the under-mentioned manor of Nether Hall, &c., to the use of his last will.

The said Thomas Mongomery, knt., died 2 Jan. last. Alice Langley, wife of Robert Langley, aged 60 and more, is his sister and heir.




ESSEX. 

Manor and advowson of Falkborn, the manor of Blunteshale, a water-mill called ‘Machons Mill’ in Witham, divers lands and tenements called ‘Marchalles,’ ‘Colmans,’ and ‘Okeden Fee,’ a toft, 174a. land, 4a. meadow, 6a. pasture, 42a. wood, and a rent of 20s. 11d. and a capon, with divers other lands, tenements, rents, woods, and pastures in Falkborn, Witham, Fayrsted, Hatfeld Peverell, Terlyng, Boreham, Notley, and Revenhale, worth 26l. 13s. 4d., held of John, Prior of St. John of Jerusalem in England, as of the Preceptory of Cressyng Tempill.

Manor of Great Braksted, worth 13l. 6s. 8d., held of the said Prior, as of the said Preceptory, service unknown.

Manor called ‘Nether Hall,’ a tenement called ‘Cokes,’ a messuage, 500a. land, 10a. meadow, 20a. wood, 40a. pasture, 100a. heather, and 40s. rent in West Bergholt, Sakevyle, and Fordham, late belonging to William Bury, lawyer, worth 6l. 13s. 4d., held of Richard Sakvyle, as of the manor of Bergholt, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (75.)





1041


JOHN COPYLDYKE, esq.




Writ de Amotus, 28 Oct., 10 Hen. VII; inq. the last day of October, 11 Hen. VII.




He enfeoffed Thomas Burgh, knt., and Edward Burgh his son, John Skypwith son of William Skypwith, knt., Thomas Tothoth, esq., William Bond, vicar of Burgh, and John Cokerell, rector of Aswardby, who survive, and William Heton and Thomas Blakamoure of Boston, now deceased, of the under-mentioned manors and lands, to the use of his last will.

His last will, sealed with his armorial seal, is not yet executed in certain respects, nor can it be with the profits so far received from his said lands.

He died 15 March, 6 Hen. VII. William Copuldyke, aged 23 and more, is his son and heir.




LINC. 

Manor of Harryngton, worth 6 marks, held of John Racclyf, Lord de Fitzwater, knt., by service of a fish-hawk (nisi) yearly, for all service.
[Page 448]

Manor of Ferthyngton, worth 40s., held of the King in socage, by fealty and 18d. rent yearly, for all service.

Manor of Fryskeney, worth 20s., held of the heirs of the Earl of Lincoln, service unknown.

Manor of Tytton in the parish of Wyberton, worth 10 marks, held of the President of the College of St. Mary Magdalen, Oxford, service unknown.

Manor of Freston, worth 10 marks, held of John, Lord de Roos, service unknown.

Manor of Frampton, worth 10 marks, held of the said President, service unknown.

Twenty-seven acres of land lying in Tytton in the parish of Wyberton, seventeen acres whereof, worth 5s., are held of the Lady Margaret, Countess of Richemond, service unknown, and the residue, worth 6s., of John, Viscount Welles, service unknown.

A messuage, 68a. land, and a selion of land in Frampton, 50a. whereof are held of Robert Wyllughby, Lord de Broke, service unknown; 12a. of the heirs of John Magelyn, service unknown; and 6a., the residue of the said 68a., of the lord of Erlishalle in Frampton, service unknown.

Forty-four acres of land in Kyrketon, 16a. whereof are held of the said Lady Margaret, Countess of Richemond, service unknown; 6a. of Richard, son and heir of Humphrey Lytilbury, esq., deceased, service unknown; 16a. of John, son and heir of Thomas Meres, esq., deceased, service unknown; and 4a. of John Cleymond, service unknown.

Forty acres of land in Algerkyrke, held of the said John, son and heir of Thomas Meres, esq., service unknown.

Twenty acres of land in Toft, six acres whereof are held of John Rocheford, esq., service unknown, and the other fourteen acres of Maud, Lady de Willughby, service unknown.

The said 50a. land in Frampton and the other lands and tenements in Kyrketon, Algerkyrke, or Alderkyrke, and Toft are worth 40s. clear yearly.

Two messuages with divers fisheries in Conyngesby, held of Robert Dymmok, knt., service unknown.

Twenty-four acres of land in Orby called ‘Forthyngton Dale,’ and a messuage and six acres land in Drexthorp, or Droxthorp, held of Richard Hastynges, Lord de Willughby, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (76.)





1042


JOHN WODE.




Writ 15 March, 10 Hen. VII; inq. 26 Oct., 11 Hen. VII.




He died 4 March, 10 Hen. VII, seised of the under-mentioned lands in fee. Richard Wode, aged 26 and more, is his son and heir.




DEVON. 

A moiety of four messuages and 100a. land in Coleford, worth 10 marks, held of the Earl of Devon, as of the honor of Plympton Earls, by fealty and 8s. rent yearly.

A messuage and 20a. land in Fosse, worth 10s., held of the said Earl, as of the said honor, by fealty and 4s. rent yearly.

A moiety of a messuage and of 20a. land in Saltrem, worth 12s., held of the said Earl, as of the said honor, by fealty and 10s. rent yearly.
[Page 449]

A moiety of a messuage and of 40a. land in Heyer Harston and Herford, worth 40s., held of his Excellency Lord Arthur, Prince of Wales and Duke of Cornwall, as of the castle of Trematon, co. Cornw., by fealty and suit of his court there.

A messuage and 20a. land in Wode, worth 8s., held of John Crokker, knt., by fealty and 3s. rent yearly.

A cottage in Botelond, worth 5s., held of the Prior of St. John of Jerusalem in England, by fealty and 12d. rent yearly.

A messuage and 20a. land in Keaton, worth 6s., held of the Abbot of St. Mary’s, Bukfast, by fealty and 4s. rent yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (77.)





1043


ROBERT TAYLBOIS, knt.




Writ 28 April, inq. 27 May, 10 Hen. VII.




He and John Gygour, clk., Warden of Tatteshall College, being seised of the under-mentioned manor and lands in fee demised them by deed dated at Kyme, 2 January, 9 Hen. VII, to Richard, Bishop of Durham, William, Bishop of Coventry and Lichfield, William Huse, knt., chief justice of the King’s Bench, Thomas Fitzwilliam, knt., Geoffrey Symeon, Chancellor of Lincoln Cathedral, Thomas Welby, esq., Thomas Wymbyssh, esq., John Coteler, clk., and William Cutlerd, and Everard Pynchebek, gentlemen, in fee to the use of his last will.

By his last will he directed the said feoffees to enfeoff Robert Tailboys one of his sons of the lands and tenements in Hornyngton for the term of his life with reversion to themselves to the use of his own right heirs. The said Robert is yet living. The said will is not yet executed.

He died the last day but one of January last. George Tailboys, esq., aged 28 and more, is his son and heir.




YORK CITY. 

Manor of Padokthorp, 100a. land, 40a. meadow, 40a pasture, and 30a. wood in Padokthorp and Hornyngton, worth 10l., held of Henry, Earl of Northumberland, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (78.)





1044


ROBERT TAILBOYS, knt.




Writ 4 Feb., inq. 28 May, 10 Hen. VII.




He enfeoffed Richard, Bishop of Durham, Thomas Fitzwilliam, knt., John Coteler, clk., and Everard Pynchebek, gent., of the under-mentioned lands, to the use of his last will.

Death and heir as in No. 971.




SURREY. 

A messuage, 20a. land, 10a. pasture, and 4a. meadow in Totyng, worth 23s. 4d., held of Thomas, Earl of Arundel, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (79.)





1045


ROBERT TAYLBOIS, knt.




Writ 28 April, inq. 26 May, 10 Hen. VII.




He and John Gygour, clk., Warden of Tatteshall College, demised the under-mentioned manor, lands, and ferry to the Bishops of Durham, &c. (as in No. 1043), to the use of his last will.

He died the last day but one of January last. George Tailboys, esq., aged 28 and more, is his son and heir.
[Page 450]

KYNGESTON-ON-HULL. Manor of Hesill, four messuages, 40a. arable, 30a. meadow, and 60a. pasture in Hesill, Traneby, Elvele, Anleby, Swannland, and Ferreby, with the passage of the water of Humber called ‘le Fery’ of Hesyll with all the profits, &c., in any way belonging to the said passage, viz. for certain profits there now wont to be paid as often as and whenever need may be to set sail with a certain boat for the transport of men, horses and other animals, and merchandise, from Hesyll in the county of the said town, beyond and over the said water of Humber to the town of Barton in Lincolnshire, as well as to other places across the Humber at the pleasure of those sailing in the said boat, and for bringing back thence other such men, &c., to Hesyll. The said manor, lands, and ferry are worth 20 marks clear yearly, and are held of the Lady Margaret, the King’s mother, Countess of Richmond, as of the manor of Cotyngham, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (80.)





1046


JOHN WATERTON, knt.




Writ 12 Jan., inq. Wednesday before St. Philip and St. James the Apostles, 10 Hen. VII.




He died seised of the under-mentioned manor of Calthorn in fee.

He enfeoffed Thomas Pollerd the younger and John Holme of the under-mentioned manor of Walton, and Miles Willesthorp and William Myrffeld, esqs., and others, of the under-mentioned manor of Byrne, to the use of his last will. By his last will he directed that his debts to the amount of 340l. should be paid out of issues and profits of the said two manors.

He died 3 Jan. last. Robert Waterton, aged 16 and more, is his son and heir.




YORK. 

Manor of Calthorn, worth 10l., held of the King, as of the honor of Pontfrett, co. York, parcel of the duchy of Lancaster, by knight-service.

Manor of Walton beside Wakefeld, worth 20l., held of the King, as of the barony, or lordship, of Wakefeld, co. York, some time in the possession of John, Earl of Waran, and which came, by what right the jury know not, to the hands of King Edward III, service unknown.

Manor of Byrne, worth 40 marks, held of Thomas, Archbishop of York, as of the manor of Shyreburn in Elmett, co. York, by fealty and suit of court every three weeks, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (81.)





1047


THOMAS SCROPE DE UPSALL, knt.




Writ de Amotus 29 June, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 12 May, 10 Hen. VII.




He enfeoffed George Fitzhugh and Geoffrey Dowen of the under-mentioned manor to the use of himself and Elizabeth his wife and his heirs.

He died on St. George’s day, 8 Hen. VII. Alice Scrope, aged 13, is his daughter and heir.




LEIC. 

Manor of Haverbergh and Boudon, worth 20l., held of the King, by fealty and 6l. 6s. 7d. rent at Michaelmas yearly, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (82.) E. Series II. File 1115, Part I. (6.)



[Page 451]


1048


ROBERT TAILBOIS, knt.




Writ 3 Feb., inq. 31 May, 10 Hen. VII.




Findings as in No. 1044.




SOMERS. 

Manor of Yevelton, eight messuages, 100a. meadow, and 5s. rent in Somerton Seyntclere and Milton beside Stapilton, worth 20l., held of Thomas, Marquess of Dorset, and Cicely his wife, in her right, service unknown. (Cf. No. 713.)





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (83.)





1049


WILLIAM WYVELL, esq.




Writ 8 May, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 20 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




He gave the under-mentioned manor to Thomas Entewesell, William Brokesby, and Thomas Hasilrig, esqs., Henry Thorp of Wodhome, chaplain, William Gerves, and Thomas Lee, who survive, in fee.

He died 4 May last. Katharine Warde, aged 11 and more, daughter of John Warde, gent., is his cousin and heir, viz. daughter of Margaret daughter of William Wyvell his father. The said John Warde, her father, is living.




LEIC. 

Manor of Stonedon Wyvell otherwise called Staunton Wyvell, worth 20 marks, held of the King, as of the honor of Leycester castle, parcel of the duchy of Lancaster, by knight-service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (84.) E. Series II. File 1115. Part I. (4.)





1050


ROBERT TAILBOYS, knt.




Writ wanting; inq. 26 May, 10 Hen. VII.




He died seised of the under-mentioned manor of Crawden in fee.

By deed dated at Kyme 2 Jan., 9 Hen. VII, he and John Gygour, Warden of Tatteshall College, gave the under-mentioned messuages and lands in Wendey, Arington, Malton, and Orwell, to the Bishops of Durham and Coventry and Lichfeld and others (as in No. 1043) in fee to the use of his last will.

He died the last day but one of January last. George Tailboys, aged 28 and more, is his son and heir.




CAMB. 

Manor of Crawden with its members and appurtenances in Crawden and Clopton, Stepil Mordon and Gildy Mordon, Baryngton, Est Hatley, and Orwell, worth 100s., held of the King, as of the honor of Peverell, by service of 1/6 of a knight’s fee.

A messuage and 40a. land in Wendey, worth 30s., held of Margaret, Countess of Richmond, service unknown.

Two messuages, 80a. land, and 10a. meadow in Arington, Malton, and Orwell, whereof the tenements in Arington, worth 10s., are held of Cicely, Duchess of York, as of the honor of Clare, service unknown, and the tenements in Malton and Orwell, worth 40s., of Robert Hutton and his wife, in her right, as of the manor of Batmans, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (85.)



















PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















