











House of Lords Journal Volume 6: 17 May 1644 | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


Journal of the House of Lords










House of Lords Journal Volume 6: 17 May 1644










Journal of the House of Lords: Volume 6, 1643. 


Originally published by His Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1767-1830.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




'House of Lords Journal Volume 6: 17 May 1644', in Journal of the House of Lords: Volume 6, 1643 (London,  1767-1830), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/lords-jrnl/vol6/pp556-558 [accessed 3 July 2026].





'House of Lords Journal Volume 6: 17 May 1644', in Journal of the House of Lords: Volume 6, 1643(London,  1767-1830), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/lords-jrnl/vol6/pp556-558.





"House of Lords Journal Volume 6: 17 May 1644". Journal of the House of Lords: Volume 6, 1643. (London, 1767-1830), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/lords-jrnl/vol6/pp556-558.














Prev Page 
Next Page




Prev |
Next













Image














Image














Image

















Keyword Highlight

Search






In this section

DIE Veneris, 17 die Maii.
E. of Essex's Letter, about the Report of the King's coming to London.
Ld. Conway Leave to go Abroad.
Sir Richard Gurny, Leave to go to Tunbridge.
Monsieur Boisovin, the French Agent in Scotland, stayed in Lancashire, coming to London.
To be released.
Message from the H. C. for a Conference concerning the Committee of both Kingdoms.
Answer.
Advice from the Lord Admiral, that a Ship is taken, going to the Enemy, with Arms from Rotterdam.
Lady Dorset's Petition about her Sequestration.
Message to the H. C. with it;
and the preceding Letter, and about Monsieur Boisovin being released;
to remind them of sundry Petitions;
and concerning the Examinations about the Honour of both Houses, and the E. of Essex.
Report of the Conference, concerning the Committee of both Kingdoms.
Commons desired to send up a new Ordinance, concerning the Committee of both Kingdoms
Lord Conway's Petition for his Enlargement.
Sir Theodore Mayhern, and Sir Matthew Lyster, Leave to attend the Queen.
Their Pass.
Mr. Willis, a Pass.
Ordinance for Mr. Ashton to be Minister of Hempsted.
Adjourn.

Footnotes



DIE Veneris, 17 die Maii.
PRAYERS, by Mr. Reynolds.


Domini præsentes fuerunt:


Ds. Grey de Warke, Speaker.










Comes Northumb.
Comes Pembrooke.
Comes Rutland

Comes Stamford.
Comes Lyncolne.
Comes Kent.
Comes Bolingbrooke.
L. Viscount Say & Seale.

Ds. Hunsdon.
Ds. Willoughby.


The Speaker acquainted this House with a Letter
from the Lord General, directed to him:



E. of Essex's Letter, about the Report of the King's coming to London.
"My Lord,


"How the general Report is come of His Majesty's
coming to London, is utterly unknown to me: I shall
not fail with my best Endeavours to find the Ground
of it; but London is the likeliest Place to know it,
here being no Speech of it in this Army. As soon as
I shall have any Notice of His Intention of repairing
to the Parliament or the Army, I shall not fail to give
Notice of it; and, as I am their Servant, shall be ready
at all Times to obey their Directions. For the Business itself of the King's coming to the Parliament or
Army, I cannot conceive there is any Ground for it;
but, however, I believe I shall be the last that shall
hear of it.


"Your humble Servant,



Maii 16, 1644, upon the March.


"Essex."


Directed thus,


"For the Right Honourable the Lord
Grey of Warke, Speaker of the
Lords House pro Tempore."


Ordered, That this Letter be communicated to the
House of Commons.




Ld. Conway Leave to go Abroad.
Upon reading the Petition of the Lord Viscount Conway. (Here enter it.) It is Ordered, That he shall
have Liberty to go Abroad.




Sir Richard Gurny, Leave to go to Tunbridge.
Upon reading the humble Petition of Sir Ric'd
Gurny Baronet; shewing, "That, by reason of his long
Imprisonment, his Infirmity is much grown upon him,
which he was wont to go the Waters at Tunbridge
for his Recovery; therefore he humbly desires that
he may have Liberty for to go to the said Waters for
Four Months."


Hereupon this House Ordered, That he shall have
Leave, for Four Months, to go to Tunbridge Waters,
provided he gives Security then to return.




Monsieur Boisovin, the French Agent in Scotland, stayed in Lancashire, coming to London.
The Earl of Northumb. reported, "That, according
to their Lordships Directions, himself and the Lord
Viscount Say & Seale have opened the Lord Fairefaix's Letter, in the Presence of the Lord Maitland;
in which Letter is intimated that Monsieur Bossivin,
that was the Agent for France in Scotland, coming
from thence, is stayed and restrained in Lanchashire,
until the Pleasure of the Houses be known."




To be released.
Hereupon this House, considering that the said Monsieur Bossevin is an Agent acknowledged by the Crown
of France, were of Opinion, that it is fit that he be
freed from his Restraint, and that he come up to London.




Message from the H. C. for a Conference concerning the Committee of both Kingdoms.
A Message was brought from the House of Commons,
by the Lord Grey of Groby:


To desire a Free Conference, concerning the Committee of both Kingdoms.


The Answer returned was:




Answer.
That this House will give a present Conference, in
the Painted Chamber, as is desired.




Advice from the Lord Admiral, that a Ship is taken, going to the Enemy, with Arms from Rotterdam.
Next, was read a Letter directed to the Speaker, from
the Lord Admiral,  (fn. 1) giving Notice, "That his Rear
Admiral with his Squadron have taken a Ship called
The Tyger, laded from Rotterdam with Arms and Ammunition, going for the Enemy; and also his Lordship
desires that some more Ships may be sent, to increase
the Squadron in The Downes."


Ordered, To send this Letter to the House of
Commons.




Lady Dorset's Petition about her Sequestration.
A Petition of the Lady Dorsett's was read; desiring,
That the Sequestration of Lands in Sussex may be
taken off, out of which she is to have Maintenance."


Ordered, To send this Petition to the House of
Commons.




Message to the H. C. with it;
A Message was sent to the House of Commons, by
Sir Rob't Rich and Mr. Page:




and the preceding Letter, and about Monsieur Boisovin being released;
1. To deliver unto them the Lord Fairfaix's Letter;
and to let them know, that this House is of Opinion, that
Monsieur Bossevin, being a known Agent of the Crown of
France, being freed from his Restraint, shall be permitted
to come to London.


2. To acquaint them with the Lord Admiral's Letter.




to remind them of sundry Petitions;
3. To deliver to them the Countess of Dorsett's
Petition.


4. To put them in Mind of the Earl of Mulgrave's
Petition, and the Lord Sheffield's.


5. To put them in Mind to expedite the Business concerning Sir Henry Mervin.




and concerning the Examinations about the Honour of both Houses, and the E. of Essex.
6. That, at the Committee of both Houses concerning
the Examinations about the Earl of Essex's Business, some
Questions being made upon the Oath given to the Witnesses, Mr. Whitlock was appointed by the Committee to
report the same to the House of Commons; the Lords
now desire that they may know the Resolution of the
House of Commons, whether they will proceed any further in that joint Committee or not.


The House was adjourned during Pleasure, and the
Lords went to the Conference; which being ended, the
House was resumed.




Report of the Conference, concerning the Committee of both Kingdoms.
The Speaker reported the Effect of this Conference;
which was, "The House of Commons have presented
to their Lordships an Answer to the late Conference
which their Lordships had with them, concerning the
Committee of both Kingdoms.


"The Paper brought from the House of Commons
was commanded to be read.


"The House of Commons agree with your Lordships,
that it is necessary to have a Committee of both
Houses to join with the Commissioners of Scotland,
the Kingdom of Scotland having joined with us in a
common Defence for Religion and the Liberty of
both Nations; and that the Two Houses of Parliament, which are denied and opposed by others, should
keep Unity and a good Understanding among themselves; and they shall be careful neither to infringe
any of your Lordships Rights, nor to stand more
strictly upon their own than shall be requisite for the
Service both of the Kingdom and Parliament: Whereas your Lordships hold it just, equal, and your undoubted Right, to have the naming your own Members in the Ordinance you sent for a joint Committee; we acknowledge it the just and undoubted Right
of either House, in any Ordinance they shall send
each to other, to name what Persons they shall think
fit; but they deny that either House hath a severed
and particular Right so to name their own Members
in a Bill or Ordinance, as that the other House shall
be thereby concluded, because that Bills and Ordinances were made by the Legislative Power, which is
not a distinct Privilege of either House, but a common
Right of Parliament.


"In the Ordinance which was sent down by your
Lordships, the Committee is to be a joint Committee
with the Commissioners of Scotland, which proves that
the Members of each House are not appointed by
their respective Houses, but by Authority of Parliament.


"Concerning the Accommodation mentioned by your
Lordships, they desire not to proceed by Way of Anticipation or Pre-contract, but to go in the old and
usual Way of Parliament, which is, that, in Amendments offered upon a Bill or Ordinance, the Amendments only are to be questioned, and not the Bill or
Ordinance to be waved in respect that all but the
Amendments are assented to by both Houses.


"And in this particular Case, your Lordships have
been of the same Opinion for the passing the Ordinance whereby the Committee of both Kingdoms
sat; your Lordships propounded an Addition of Six
Lords more, which, upon Reasons from the House
of Commons, your Lordships waved, and declared
yourselves satisfied, and therefore cannot conceive
that that should be now urged a Breach of Privilege,
which upon Reasons and Debate was then settled as
is now desired.


"There being many Armies in the Field, and all in
present Action, which will require daily Advice and
Directions; the House of Commons, to discharge the
Duty and Trust which lies upon them for the Safety
of the Three Kingdoms, do desire your speedy Concurrence in the Ordinance which they returned to
your Lordships."


The House taking this into  (fn. 2) Debate, the  (fn. 3) Resolution
of the House was, to return this Answer at this Free
Conference with the House of Commons:




Commons desired to send up a new Ordinance, concerning the Committee of both Kingdoms
"That, to avoid further Dispute, if the Commons
will send up a new Ordinance (the former being voted
out before), then this House will take Consideration,
and do what belongs to them in Honour and Justice.


Then this House was adjourned during Pleasure; and
the Lords went to meet the House of Commons, at a
Free Conference, to let them know this.


And the House being resumed;


The Speaker reported, "That he had read at the
Conference their Lordships Resolution; and some
Members of the House of Commons said, That they
conceived the Ordinance is not cast out, and they desire an Answer concerning that."


Then this House taking this into Consideration,
Resolved, To give this Answer to the House of Commons,


"That, to avoid further Dispute, if the Commons
will send up a new Ordinance, then this House will
take Consideration, and do what belongs to them in
Honour and Justice."


The Lords went again to meet the House of Commons, at the Free Conference.




Lord Conway's Petition for his Enlargement.
"To the Right Honourable the Lords assembled
in Parliament.


"The humble Petition of Edward Viscount
Conway;


"Shewing,


"That, so soon as by the Declaration of both Kingdoms, Hopes were given to your Petitioner of having his former Errors remitted, and being again received into the Protection of the Parliament, he took
a Resolution of returning, and submitting himself unto the Parliament, which he put in Execution as soon
as possibly he could find a free Passage; at his coming to London, he received a Command from your
Lordships, by the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod,
not to stir out of his Lodging, which he hath carefully
obeyed. His humble Desire unto your Lordships now
is, that you would be pleased to take him into your
Consideration, and allow him such an Enlargement
as in your Lordships Wisdom shall be thought fit;


"And he shall ever pray for a Blessing upon all
your Lordships Proceedings.


"Conway."




Sir Theodore Mayhern, and Sir Matthew Lyster, Leave to attend the Queen.
"Ordered, by the Lords in Parliament, That Leave
shall be given to Sir Theodore Mayerne, and Sir
"Mathew Lyster, to go down to the Queen, for Her
Health, with their necessary Servants and Accommodations, without any Prejudice to their Persons or
Estates, Personal and Real."




Their Pass.
"It is this Day Ordered, by the Lords in Parliament, That Sir Theodore D' May'rne, Sir Mathew
Lister, and Mr. Archibald Hay, with their Servants,
Gedeon Chabrey, Josias Cuper, Theodore Devaux, Mrs.
Dorothy Stansby, John Michaell, George a Footman,
Alexander Hay, Thomas Lanricke, and another Footman, are hereby authorized, with a Coach and Six
Horses, and a Waggon with Six Horses, to carry
their Necessaries and Accommodations, to pass quietly
and freely from London, to the City of Exeter,
in the County of Devon; the said Sir Theodore
Mayerne and Sir Mathew Lyster going down to the
Queen, for Her Health; provided they carry nothing
with them prejudicial to the State: And this shall be
a sufficient Warrant in that Behalf.


"To all Colonels, Captains, Lieutenants,
Officers of Guard, and all other Superior and Inferior Officers whom
this may concern."




Mr. Willis, a Pass.
Ordered, That Mr. Thomas Willis and Mr. Agard
shall have a Pass, to Ash, in the County of South'ton.




Ordinance for Mr. Ashton to be Minister of Hempsted.
An Ordinance for appointing Mr. James Ashton Clerk,
to be Minister at Hempsteed, in the County of Hertford,
in the Place of Mr. Kendall, was read, and approved of,
and Ordered to be sent to the House of Commons, for
their Concurrence.




Adjourn.
House adjourned till 9a cras.








Footnotes


1.  Origin. give.
2.  Origin. debated.
3.  Origin. resolved.














PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















