











House of Lords Journal Volume 5: 2 January 1643 | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


Journal of the House of Lords










House of Lords Journal Volume 5: 2 January 1643










Journal of the House of Lords: Volume 5, 1642-1643. 


Originally published by His Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1767-1830.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




'House of Lords Journal Volume 5: 2 January 1643', in Journal of the House of Lords: Volume 5, 1642-1643 (London,  1767-1830), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/lords-jrnl/vol5/pp523-524 [accessed 3 July 2026].





'House of Lords Journal Volume 5: 2 January 1643', in Journal of the House of Lords: Volume 5, 1642-1643(London,  1767-1830), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/lords-jrnl/vol5/pp523-524.





"House of Lords Journal Volume 5: 2 January 1643". Journal of the House of Lords: Volume 5, 1642-1643. (London, 1767-1830), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/lords-jrnl/vol5/pp523-524.














Prev Page 
Next Page




Prev |
Next













Image














Image

















Keyword Highlight

Search






In this section

DIE Lunæ, videlicet, 2 Januarii.
Answer from the H. C. about their Members Subscriptions.
Complaint about Horses being seized.
Lady Gurney to see her Husband in The Tower.
Paviours of Old Palaceyard to be paid.
Bill for settling the Militia.
Message to the H. C. for a Conference about it;
and about releasing the Earl of Portland.
Answer.
Message from thence, for the Lords Concurrence in an Ordinance.
Answer.
Bill for settling the Admiralty.
Accompts relative to the Inland Postoffice to be delivered to the Earl of Warwick.
Sir Edw. Warder, Sir John Castle, &c. a Pass to Oxford, to present a Petition to the King.
Ordinance for the Parliament's Forces to drive the King's, from Brill in Buckinghamshire.
Petition of the Apprentices of London refused, as they brought it in a tumultuous Manner.
Adjourn.

Footnotes



DIE Lunæ, videlicet, 2 Januarii.
PRAYERS.


Earl Manchester, now Speaker.



Answer from the H. C. about their Members Subscriptions.
The Messengers sent on Saturday to the House of
Commons, with the Message to desire them to call their
Members to Subscriptions, return with this Answer:


That they will take the same into Consideration.




Complaint about Horses being seized.
Upon a Complaint, "That Horses are yet seized;"
it is Ordered, That Enquiry shall be made by what
Authority the Horses are now taken, the Order being
re-called.




Lady Gurney to see her Husband in The Tower.
Ordered, That the Lady Gurny shall have Liberty
to see her Husband in The Tower, in regard of his
Sickness.




Paviours of Old Palaceyard to be paid.
Upon the Petition of poor Workmen, Paviours of
The Ould Pallace, desiring, "That they may have their
Money, which is agreed between the Surveyors and
them;" Ordered, That the Monies due and contracted with these Paviours, by the Surveyors, shall be
paid by Sir Rob't Pye, out of his Receipts.




Bill for settling the Militia.
The Earl of Northumb. reported, "That the Committee having taken into Consideration the preparing
a Bill for settling of the Militia, such Difficulties are
found, as their Lordships think it fit to respite the
offering any Bill to that Purpose, until His Majesty
shall return hither unto the Parliament; and then
they hold it most necessary, that, upon the serious
Consideration of both Houses of Parliament, an Act
be drawn, for the due Ordering, Governing, and
Disposing of the Militia; and that the Sense of the
Committee was, That this Bill should express, that
the King should not dispose of the Power of the Militia without the Parliament, nor the Parliament without the King; that both Sides might have an equal
Power to prevent all Jealousies; but the Committee
could not word it so expressly, but found many Difficulties; therefore their Lordships thought it fit to
lay it aside, until His Majesty's Return to His Parliament.


"Also the Committee think it fit, That an Act may
pass, for the present disbanding of all extraordinary
Forces, Guards, and Garrisons, and to be offered as
One of the Propositions to the King; which this
House approved of: And because this House promised the House of Commons to prepare a Bill for
settling the Militia to bring to them, this House
thought it fit to communicate the Knowledge of this
to the House of Commons, with the Reasons and
Sense of the Committee, as aforesaid reported; and
to acquaint them with this last Proposition, of offering a Bill to the King, for disbanding Forces and
Guards."




Message to the H. C. for a Conference about it;
Then, a Message was sent to the House of Commons, by Dr. Ayliff and Dr. Heath:


To desire a Conference, touching the Bill concerning
the Militia.




and about releasing the Earl of Portland.
A Message was sent to the House of Commons, by
Serjeant Whitfeild and Serjeant Glanvile:


To let the House of Commons know their Lordships
Order, made on Saturday last, touching the releasing of
the Earl of Portland.


The Messengers sent to the House of Commons return with this Answer:




Answer.
That the House of Commons will give a present Conference, as is desired.




Message from thence, for the Lords Concurrence in an Ordinance.
A Message was brought from the House of Commons,
by Mr. Winwood, Esquire:


To desire their Lordships Concurrence in an Ordinance concerning joining of Forces, to beat the King's
Forces from Brill, in Bucks. (Here enter it.)


Agreed to.


The Answer returned was:




Answer.
That this House agrees with the House of Commons
in this Ordinance.




Bill for settling the Admiralty.
Next, the Bill for settling the Admiralty was reported, with some Amendments; which being approved
of, the Bill is Ordered to be ingrossed.




Accompts relative to the Inland Postoffice to be delivered to the Earl of Warwick.
Ordered, That the Books of Accompts, now in the
Hands of the Clerk of the Parliament, concerning the
Inland Letter office, shall be  (fn. 1) delivered to the Earl of
Warwicke, to the Intent he may cause Copies to be made
thereof before they shall be delivered to the Auditor;
and that Mr. Burlamachi shall, according to the Order
of the 9th of December (within Two Days), deliver to
the Clerk of the Parliament, upon Oath to be made
before a Master of the Chancery, all other Books, Accompts, Writings, or Papers whatsoever, that concern
the Letter-office; and that the said Earl of Warwicke may
likewise take Copies thereof; and that the Earl of Warwicke shall have Power to present Interrogatories, for
such to be examined upon as have not yielded Obedience to the Orders of this House; and that they may
be ordered to answer thereto accordingly.




Sir Edw. Warder, Sir John Castle, &c. a Pass to Oxford, to present a Petition to the King.
Ordered, That Sir Edward Warder Knight, Jo.
Castle Esquire, John Chichley Esquire, Laurance Lisle
Gentleman, Richard Dukeson Doctor in Divinity, Tho.
Fuller Batchelor in Divinity, with Two Coaches, with
Four Horses or Six Horses for each Coach, and Saddles
for Eight or Ten Servants, shall have a Pass, to go to
Oxford, to present a Petition to His Majesty.




Ordinance for the Parliament's Forces to drive the King's, from Brill in Buckinghamshire.
"Whereas great Forces of Papists and other illaffected Persons are now in actual War against the
King, the Parliament, and the whole Kingdom, and
Part of those Forces being now drawn to Brill, in the
County of Bucks, and other Places adjoining, having,
according to their Usage, plundered, robbed, pillaged, and murdered, divers good Protestants thereabouts, and threaten to march into the County of
Hertford, and other Counties that Way, there to
commit the like Outrages and barbarous Cruelties,
as they have done in Places where they have formerly been: The Lords and Commons in Parliament,
being most desirous to prevent these Miseries, and to
suppress the Authors of them, for the better effecting thereof, do hereby desire all well-affected Persons
of the County of Hertford, and other Counties and
Places adjoining, forthwith to raise all such Forces,
Horses  (fn. 2) and Foot, as they can make, and to march
with them to Alesbury, in the County of Bucks, or
to such other Place as they shall be directed by Order
from both Houses of Parliament, or from the Earl
of Essex Lord General, and to join with and assist the
Forces raised by Authority of Parliament, for the
Defence of themselves, their Families, and Estates,
and the true Protestant Religion, and for the suppressing and punishing those Forces at Brill, and all
other their Adherents, notorious Enemies to the King
and Kingdom; and such well-affected Persons in the
County of Hertford, or of any other Counties or
Places whatsoever, that shall join with and assist the
Forces raised by Authority of Parliament for the
Purpose abovementioned, shall therein do a very acceptable Service to the Commonwealth, and shall be
assisted and protected by the Power and Authority of
Parliament."




Petition of the Apprentices of London refused, as they brought it in a tumultuous Manner.
This House being informed, "That divers Apprentices of the City of London were at Door, to deliver a Petition to this House;" but, understanding that
they were come in a Multitude, their Lordships Resolved, To send them this Answer, by the Gentleman
Usher: "That my Lords have formerly expressed their
Dislike of the coming of Multitudes to the Parliament; and they take Notice of a great Multitude
that came this Morning towards the Parliament,
which Manner of coming with Petitions they are unsatisfied with; but, if they will choose a few, and
come some other Day to them, they will receive their
Petition."




Adjourn.
House adjourned till 10a cras.







Footnotes


1.  Deest in Originali.
2.  Origin. of.














PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















