











House of Lords Journal Volume 8: 17 July 1646 | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


Journal of the House of Lords










House of Lords Journal Volume 8: 17 July 1646










Journal of the House of Lords: Volume 8, 1645-1647. 


Originally published by His Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1767-1830.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




'House of Lords Journal Volume 8: 17 July 1646', in Journal of the House of Lords: Volume 8, 1645-1647 (London,  1767-1830), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/lords-jrnl/vol8/pp435-437 [accessed 3 July 2026].





'House of Lords Journal Volume 8: 17 July 1646', in Journal of the House of Lords: Volume 8, 1645-1647(London,  1767-1830), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/lords-jrnl/vol8/pp435-437.





"House of Lords Journal Volume 8: 17 July 1646". Journal of the House of Lords: Volume 8, 1645-1647. (London, 1767-1830), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/lords-jrnl/vol8/pp435-437.














Prev Page 
Next Page




Prev |
Next













Image














Image














Image

















Keyword Highlight

Search






In this section

DIE Veneris, 17 die Julii.
Bolton to preach at the Fast.
Judges Leave to be absents.
Sir A. De Lisle, a Pass.
Rectory of Stantake.
South to be instituted to Launton.
Marlborough Ministers Ordinance.
Letter from L. Howard of Charlton, that he is come in.
Covent Garden, this 16th of July, 1646.
Committed to the Black Rod.
Rawlinson's Ordinance to be Minister of Lambeth.
Answer from the H. C.
Writs of Error brought in.
Letter from Montgomery.
Mrs. Venables, a Pass.
Dell to appear when summoned.
Letter concerning the Surrender of Litchfield.
French Arrbassivior has Audience;
to have a Pass to the King, and to the Estates of Scotland.
Lynn Petition, about the Garrison there.
Lords Leave to be absent.
Steling, D. of Buckingham's Servant, a Pass.
Sir R. Gurney's Petition, for Leave to go to the Waters.
Sir P. Killegrew to attend the Commissioners at Newcastle.
Message to the H. C. about it.
Lady Vere Carr's Petition;
and about the following Particulars.
French Ambassador's Pass.
Ordinance for Mr. Dove to be Minister of Elmne cum Emneth.
E. of Cleveland's Bail.
Adjourn.




DIE Veneris, 17 die Julii.
PRAYERS, by Mr. Warde.


Comes Manchester, Speaker.











Comes Northumb.
Comes Essex.
Comes Warwicke.
Comes Denbigh.
Comes Kent.
Comes Rutland.

Ds. Howard.
Ds. Hunsdon.
Ds. North.
Ds. Grey.
Ds. Robertes.
Ds. Maynard.
Ds. Bruce.



Bolton to preach at the Fast.
Ordered, That Mr. Calamy is excused from preaching the next Fast-day; and that Mr. Bolton is appointed
to preach in his Place.




Judges Leave to be absents.
Ordered, That Mr. Justice Rolls and Mr. Baron
Atkins are excused of their Attendance on this House,
to prepare themselves for the Circuit, and have Leave
to be absent after the Circuit till the next Term.




Sir A. De Lisle, a Pass.
Ordered, That Sir Arnold De Lile shall have a
Pass, to go into France, with Two Horses, Custom-free;
and for Two Servants, John Whiteherne and Peere Du
Bois.




Rectory of Stantake.
Ordered, That Doctor Aylett shall give Institution
and Induction to the Rectory of
Stantake, in the County of Oxon; he having a Presentation under the Great Seal of England.




South to be instituted to Launton.
Ordered, That Thomas South shall have Institution
and Induction to the Rectory of Launton, in the County
of Oxon; he having the Presentation under the Great
Seal of England; and Dr. Aylett to give him Institution
and Induction.




Marlborough Ministers Ordinance.
An Ordinance was presented to this House, for providing Addition of Maintenance to the Ministers Livings
of Marleborough, in the County of Wilts; and being
read Twice, it is Ordered to be committed.


A Letter of the Lord Howard of Charlton, was read,
as follows:




Letter from L. Howard of Charlton, that he is come in.
"My Lord,


"Will your Lordship be pleased to take Notice, that
I am here come in, according to Leave given by the
House of Peers; to whose Determination I shall ever
be most ready to submit; beseeching your Lordship
I may receive your further Commands herein, when
you please to move any Thing concerning,


My Lord,


Your Lordship's-most humble Servant,




Covent Garden, this 16th of July, 1646.
"Howard of Charlton.


"For the Right Honourable the Earl of Manchester,
Speaker of the House of Peers, pro Tempore."




Committed to the Black Rod.
Ordered, That the Lord Howard of Charlton shall
stand committed to the Custody of the Gentleman Usher
of the Black Rod.




Rawlinson's Ordinance to be Minister of Lambeth.
An Ordinance was brought into this House, for
making Mr. Rawlinson Minister of Lambeth, which was
read, and Agreed to with an Addition.




Answer from the H. C.
Doctor Aylett and Dr. Heath return with this Answer
from the House of Commons:


That they agree to the Reception of the French Ambassador; and to the Ordinance concerning Mr. Dove:
(Here enter it.) And to the Petition concerning the Inhabitants of Banbury.




Writs of Error brought in.
This Day Mr. Justice Bacon, Senior Judge of the
Court of King's Bench, brought in these Writs of Error
following:



John versus Nason.



Marshall versus Noell.



Smyth versus Nelson.



Thompson versus Atkinson.



Oldnall versus Lane.



Derham versus Wise.



Blenthwaite versus Hudson.



Idem & Eundem.




Letter from Montgomery.
The Letter of the Committee for the County of
Mountgomery was read, but nothing Ordered thereupon.




Mrs. Venables, a Pass.
Ordered, That Mrs. Venables shall have a Pass, to
go to Cane, in Normandy, in France, with Two Servants.




Dell to appear when summoned.
Ordered, That Mr. Wm. Dell is excused from his
Daily Attendance on this House, and to go upon his
Occasions; he appearing before this House when he
shall be summoned.




Letter concerning the Surrender of Litchfield.
A Letter was read, directed to the Earl of Essex, informing of the Surrender of the Close and City of
Litchfield; together with the Articles for the said Surrender.




French Arrbassivior has Audience;
This Day Monsieur Bellieure, Ambassador Extraordinary from the French King, had Audience by this
House; and being attended upon by the Gentleman
Usher of the Black Rod and the Master of the Ceremonies, and placed in a Chair of State, the Company
that came with him were commanded to withdraw.


And then the Ambassador made a short Speech unto
the Lords, and produced his Letter of Credence; which
was delivered to the Speaker, and opened by him:
And then he delivered it to the Master of the Ceremonies, who read it by special Direction of the House.


This being done, he took his Leave of this House,
and departed.




to have a Pass to the King, and to the Estates of Scotland.
Ordered, That this House thinks it sit to grant a
Pass to the French Ambassador, according to his Desire,
to go to the King, to Newcastle, and so to the Estates
of Scotland, with all his Retinue, and to return to London
again; and that the Concurrence of the House of
Commons, be desired herein.


And accordingly a Message was sent down to the
House of Commons, by Doctor Aylett and Doctor Heath.




Lynn Petition, about the Garrison there.
A Petition of the Inhabitants of Lyn Regis, was read;
desiring "they may be eased of the Garrison there, and
that it may be slighted; or else they may keep it
themselves, and so be delivered from the Pressure of
the Soldiers."




Lords Leave to be absent.
Ordered, That the Lord Bruce hath Leave to go
to the Waters, for his Health, for a Month.


Ordered, That the Lord North hath Leave to go to
the Waters, for his Health.


Ordered, That the Earl of Denbigh hath Leave to
be absent from his Attendance on this House for Six
Weeks.




Steling, D. of Buckingham's Servant, a Pass.
Ordered, That Mr. Steeling, Servant to the Duke of
Buckingham, shall have a Pass, to go into France.




Sir R. Gurney's Petition, for Leave to go to the Waters.
Upon reading the Petition of Sir Richard Gurny;
desiring "Leave to go to the Waters, for his Health:"


It is Ordered, That when his Physician sends a
Certificate to this House of his ill State of his Health,
then this House will take it into further Consideration.




Sir P. Killegrew to attend the Commissioners at Newcastle.
Ordered, That this House thinks it fit to send Sir
Peter Killegrew, to attend the Commissioners at Newcastle; and the Concurrence of the House of Commons
to be desired herein.




Message to the H. C. about it.
A Message was sent to the House of Commons, by
Sir Edward Leech and Mr. Page:


To let them know, that, upon the Desire of the Earl
of Pembrooke and the rest of the Commissioners at Newcastle, "That some Person may be sent down to them,
that may be sent upon the Business of the Parliament
as Occasion serves;" the Lords think it fit that Sir
Peter Killegrew be sent down to them, wherein their
Concurrence is desired.




Lady Vere Carr's Petition;
2. To deliver the Petition of the Lady Vere Carr,
with special Recommendations.




and about the following Particulars.
3. To desire their Concurrence in the Pass for Sir
Arnold De Lisle to go beyond the Seas.


4. To recommend Mr. Cooke's Petition to them.


5. To desire their Concurrence, for Six Horses to be
transported into Holland, for the young Princess of
Orange.


6. To desire Concurrence in a Pass for Mr. Babington,
Barber to the King, to go to the King, to attend upon
Him in his Place.


7. To put them in Mind that Mr. Wm. Murray may
be released of his Imprisonment.




French Ambassador's Pass.
Ordered, That the Pass for Monsienr Bellieure shall
be granted, and signed by the Speaker, if the House
of Commons agrees to it.




Ordinance for Mr. Dove to be Minister of Elmne cum Emneth.
"Whereas the Parsonage of the Parish of Elmne cum
Emneth, in the Counties of Cambridge and Norff. is
become void, by the Death of Robert Dove Clerk,
late Incumbent thereof, the original Patronage of
which Parsonage is in the Bishop of Ely, a Delinquent, in the Right of the Bishopric of Ely: The
Lords and Commons in this present Parliament assembled, to the End the said Parsonage may be supplied with a learned, godly, and orthodox Divine,
have Ordered, Ordained, and Appointed, and
hereby do Order, Ordain, and Appoint, Thomas Dove
Master of Arts, and Chaplain to the Right Honourable Phillip Earl of Pembrooke and Mountgom'ry to be
Minister of the said Parsonage of Elmne cum Emneth,
in the Counties aforesaid; and that he shall and may
have, hold, possess, and enjoy, the said Parsonage
and Parsonage-house; with the Appurtenances, and
all Glebe Lands, Tithes, Rents, Stipends, Pensions,
Profits, Commodities, and Emoluments whatsoever,
to the said Patronage belonging, or in any Wife appertaining, in as large and ample Manner as the said
Robert Dove the late deceased Incumbent thereof, or
any other, lawfully and of Right hath had, or ought
to have had, the same: Provided, That the said
Thomas Dove shall pay such Tenths, First Fruits, and
other Duties, as ought to be paid for and in regard
of his Incumbency there: Saving to all Bodies Politic and Corporate, and all other Person and Persons, all such Right and Title as they, or any of
them, have unto the Patronage of the said Church
and Parsonage of Elme cum Emneth aforesaid, other
than the said Bishop of Ely; and the Commissioners
of the Great Seal are hereby authorized to pass,
under the Great Seal of England, unto the said
Thomas Dove, a Presentation unto the said Parsonage,
according to usual Form."




E. of Cleveland's Bail.












£.



Tho. Comes Cleveland tenetur D'no Regi in


2000



"Rich'us Napper, de Com. Bucks, Eques Aurat. et Christoph. Abdey, de Lond. Eques Aurat. Manucaptores pro prædicto Comite Cleveland, tenentur D'no Regiuterque eorum separatim in


1000


"The Condition, &c. That the said Earl of Cleveland
shall render himself a true Prisoner to the Lieutenant
of The Tower of London, within One Month next
after the Date hereof; That then, &c."




Adjourn.
House adjourned till Wednesday next, at 10 a Clock.


















PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















