











Hundred of Humble-Yard: Newton | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


An Essay towards a Topographical History of the County of Norfolk










Hundred of Humble-Yard: Newton










An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 5. 


Originally published by W Miller, London, 1806.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. Public Domain. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




Francis Blomefield, 'Hundred of Humble-Yard: Newton', in An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 5 (London,  1806), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol5/pp63-70 [accessed 2 July 2026].





Francis Blomefield, 'Hundred of Humble-Yard: Newton', in An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 5(London,  1806), British History Online,  accessed July 2, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol5/pp63-70.





Francis Blomefield. "Hundred of Humble-Yard: Newton". An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 5. (London, 1806), British History Online. Web. 2 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol5/pp63-70.














Keyword Highlight

Search






In this section

NEWTON,
The Manor of Blundeville's, or Newton-Hall,
Rectors.
Rainthorp-Hall,
Rectors.

Footnotes



NEWTON,
Or the New-town, so called to distinguish it from other places of
the same name, Newton-Stoneham, or Stony-Newton, but most commonly Newton-Flotman, from the flote or ferry-boat, which used to
convey possengers over the river Taüs, which, though a considerable
stream in ancient days, is now but a small river, dividing this town
from that of Taseburgh, generally fordable, except in high waters,
when it is passed over by a very good brick arched bridge, repaired at
the expense of the county. At the time of the Conqueror, this was a
[Page 064]
very inconsiderable village, the old village of Ranthorp, now swallowed up in this, being by much the largest part of it; Tovi then had
it, (fn. 1) and it had 15 acres belonged to the manor of Hethil, (fn. 2) which,
with another small part, belonged to Roger Bigot, (fn. 3) all which
constituted



The Manor of Blundeville's, or Newton-Hall,
Which had its name from its owners, and to which the mediety of the
advowson of the church belonged; the first that I find of this name
owner here, was Will. de Blundeville, Blomevyle, or Blunnel, (fn. 4) 
who had it of the gift of Henry de Rhye, with Blomevyle's manor
in Depham, (vol. ii. p. 491,) he left it to Richard his son, who was
lord in 1226, being nephew to Tho. de Blumville Bishop of Norwich,
(vol. iii. p. 483,) he was succeeded by William Blumvyle, and he by
Katherine his widow; (fn. 5) and William their son held it of the manor of
Hingham, as of the barony of Rhye; and it was after held of the
barony of Montchensy at a quarter of a fee; in 1388, Rich. Blumvyle
held it, and in 1420, Will. Blumvyle, Esq. who was succeeded by Ric.
Blomevyle, Esq. and he by Catherine his wife, (fn. 6) and she by Richard
their son, who died in 1503; Ralph his brother succeeded, and died
in 1514, whose son Edward was lord, and died in 1568; and in 1569,
Thomas his son held a court baron and lete, and had purchased and
joined to it three parts of


The manor of Myles, alias Ranthorp, in this town; he held
the manor at half a fee of the Lord D'acre's manor of Horsford.


The advowson of Blomevyle's mediety in Newton church, was
a rectory valued at nine marks, and had 12 acres of glebe.




Rectors.
1294, John Blumvyle, rector; he was escheator for the King in
Norfolk, Suffolk, Cambridgshire, Huntingdonshire, Essex, and Hertfordshire, in 1289. Will. de Blumville, patron.


1317, Master Nic. Blumvyle. Katherine, widow of William de
Blumville of Newton.


1334, Ric. Boghay. Eve, daughter of Sir John Clavering, guardian
to Will. son and heir of Will. Blumvyle.


1338, Jeffry at Herne of Swainsthorp. John Flynt, guardian to
the said William.


[Page 065]
1345, Richard Hudde. Will. Blumvyle, res.


1346, Roger Blumvile. Ditto.


1388, Alan Smith of Taseburgh. Ric. Blumvyle, Esq. who presented the four following rectors:


1391, John Mersce.


1406, Stephen Drewe of Burston.


1414, Richard Osteler.


1418, Seaman Ketleburgh.


1420, John Copuldyke. Will. Blomvyle, Esq. who presented
the four following rectors:


1421, Robert Grubbe, who changed for Rougham vicarage in Norfolk in


1427, with Benedict Bishop.


1437, Robert Edwards.


1447, John Thompson, united for life to the other mediety; he
resigned both, and in


1448, Simon Blake was presented to this mediety by Will. Blomvyle, Esq. Nic. Pokking, John Intewood, and John Storour,
his feoffees; and to the other mediety by Nic. Appleyard of
Brakene-ash. Esq. and Margaret his wife, Edm. Wichingham; and
soon after they were consolidated in the said Simon, and have
remained so ever since.




Rainthorp-Hall,
Malherbe's, otherwise called Myles, or Mills manor,


Belonged to Ailwin in the Confessor's time, (fn. 7) and was held by William, of Roger de Ramis, (fn. 8) in the Conqueror's, and another part
belonged to Waregius who held it of Roger Bigot: (fn. 9) It after came
to the Crown, and continued there till King Hen. II. leased it out to
Roger son of Rosceline, and King Ric. I. Ao. 1189, gave it to Oliver
Malherbe, who then paid two marks to the King, for the implements of husbandry and stock upon it: (fn. 10) in 1256, William Malherbe
had it, and after him Sir Ralf Malherbe, who was lord in 1280, and in
1290, King Edward I. granted him free-warren to all his demeans
here, by the name of William de Carliol. It now was divided into four
parts; in 1321, a fourth part belonged to John de Ovedale, who held
it of John de Clavering by the 4th part of a fee, and had the 4th part
[Page 066]
of the advowson of the mediety of the church, belonging to it; this
continued as a separate manor a long time, and was called D'ovedale's manor, of which Peter de Ovedale of Tacolneston was lord in
1322. In 1316, Sir Ralf Malherbe had another 4th part, and presented here; and in 1319. Godfrey de la Rokele presented in right of
another 4th part, which in 1331, was conveyed by Sir Robert son of
Robert de la Rokele, Knt. and Reginald de Nerford and Margaret his
wife, to Jeffry de la Salle of Norwich; and in 1346, Barth. de Salle (fn. 11) 
conveyed it to Rich. de Bitering of Norwich, Nic. Kemp of Westwyk,
and William Ode junior of Saxthorp; and in 1361, this part of the
manor and advowson, was conveyed by Tho. Cole, Will. Asger, Nic.
Whitefoot, and John Tilney, citizens of Norwich, to Barth. Appleyard,
citizen of Norwich, and Emma his wife, and their heirs, they being
feoffees to Barth. de Salle. Sir Ralf Malherbe's part was joined to the
other 4th part, which in 1306 was held by John de Reynsthorp,
who dwelt here, and took his name from this place, and held it at half
a fee of Forncet manor; but he parted with his right in the two 4th
turns of the advowson of the mediety of the church; Ric. de Boyland had it after him, and Will. de Rees after him. in 1383, Adam
Humfry of Salle had it, and died in 1385, leaving Margaret his
daughter and heiress, who was a ward of Barth. Appleyard's, who
paid 10 marks to the manor of Forncet for her marriage; and the
said Bartholomew, the same year, purchased the right of Thomas de
Bumpstede in the advowson, and had it settled in trust on Thomas
Spynk, Will. Eaton, and others, and obtained the marriage also of
the daughter and heiress of Thomas de Bumpstede; and in 1389, the
Countess of Norfolk, granted to Jeffry Massingham, the marriage of
Maud, daughter and heiress of Thomas son and heir of Adam Humfry,
and Maud his wife, of Refham. In 1432, John Sweynsthorp had it,
and Loveney after him. In 1444, Tho. Bumpstede, senior, of Taseburgh, Esq. Master Will. Ludham, chaplain, and Henry Rant, chaplain, his trustees, conveyed his part of it then called Milys's manor,
to Nicholas Appleyard, Esq. and Margaret his wife, Sir John Clifton,
Knt. Edm. Wichingham, Esq. and Thomas Trute, clerk, their feoffees,
which was conveyed to Bumpstede, &c. by John Hare, parson of Saxlingham; and in 1466, Margaret, relict of Nic. Appleyard, Esq. conveyed Miles's manor to John Appleyard, Esq. in tail, remainder to
Will. his brother, (fn. 12) remainder to Henry, another brother, remainder to
Barth. another brother, with an over remainder to Eliz. and Anne,
their sisters, and their heirs; John Appleyard, Esq. inherited, and in
1498, settled it on Sir Rob. Clere, (fn. 13) Sir Phil. Calthorp, Sir Hen. Heydon,
Sir John Windham, Knts. and John Grice, Gent. his trustees, to the
use of Nicolas his son, who succeeded, and left it to John his son and
heir; and in 1515, Thomas Blomevyle, Esq had purchased three parts
of it, and joined them to Blomevyle's manor, so that he had all
but the 4th part, with the 4th part of the advowson of Malherbe's
mediety, which was sold by Nicholas Appleyerd before 1557, to Edward
Blomvyle, Esq. who then became sole patron. The 4th part of the
[Page 067]
manor passed as a single manor in the Appleyerds, and in 1528,
Roger Appleyerd, Esq. died seized of it, and John his son and heir
inherited after the death of Eliz. his mother. In 1538, Robert Clere
had it in trust, and afterwards Sir John Clere, Knt. for John Appleyard. In 1555, John Appleyerd of Brakene-ash, Esq. and Thomas
Chapman, Gent. son and heir of Alexander Chapman, Esq. deceased,
sold to Will. Bigot of Stratton in Norfolk, Gent. and John Strote of
Reepham, clerk, and their heirs, in fee simple, the manor of Myles
or Mills. In 1609, Thomas Baxter, Gent. in right of his wife, who
was late the wife of Alexander Chapman, and before that, of James
Bigot, Gent. (fn. 14) held his manor of Reynesthorp in Newton Flotman,
Taseboro and Swainsthorp, at half a fee of the manor of Forncet.
In 1676, John Lackford conveyed it to William Lackford, and both
joined and settled it on Edmund Rolf; it after belonged to the
Bedingfields, and was sold from that family, to Mr. Richard Carter
of Norwich, and his widow sold it to Mr. Bateman, of whom it was
purchased under a commission of bankruptcy, by Richard Wright of
Norwich, whose son Mr. Rich. Wright is the present owner.


The mediety called Malherbe's, in Newton church, was valued
at nine marks, and had 12 acres of glebe.




Rectors.
1294, Gilbert Malherbe.


1316, Richard de Bourne of Long-Stratton. Sir Ralf de Malherbe, Knt.


1319, Will. de Estone. Godfrey de Rokele this 4th turn.


1337, Roger Bonde. Rica. de Bradenham for this 4th turn. (fn. 15) 


1362, Will. atte Hawe of Hardingham. Will. de Colney and
John de Snoryng, for this 4th turn. He resigned in


1379, to John Clark of Gressenhall, in exchange for South Walsham St. Mary. Tho. Bumpstede, citizen.


1390, Thomas Paynot. Mary Haukere of Redenhall.


1401, Rich. Burgoyne. Will. Rees, esquire to the King's body,
as guardian to Bumpstede's heirs.


1416, Rich. Osteler, who held it united to the other mediety, and
at his death in 1431, Will. Blomevyle gave it to


John Keer of Atleburgh; and in 1447, when Keer resigned,


John Thompson was presented by Nic. Appleyard of Braken-ash, and Will. Blomevyle of Newton, Esqrs. and held it
united to the other mediety; and on his resignation,


Simon Blake succeeded, and the two medieties were consolidated, as before.


The consolidated rectory stands by the name of Newton Flotman, in the King's Books; it is valued at 10l. and pays first fruits,
and 1l. per annum tenths, and is not capable of augmentation. It paid
14d. Peter-pence, 3d. ob. carvage, 18d. synodals, and 6s. 8d. procurations. The portion of the tithes out of the demeans, belonging to
Thetford prior, was 5s.; the portion of tithes belonging to the Prior of
[Page 068]
St. Faith, was 13s. 4d. (fn. 16) and his temporals 2s. as were the temporals of
the Prioress of Carhoe. Here was a gild of St. Peter, which in
1492 had an alderman and many brethren. The terrier hath 22 acres
and an half of glebe, and the whole village paid 3l. clear, to each
tenth.


Rectors of Newton, After the Consolidation.


1467, John Tolbye. Rich. Blomevyle, Esq.


1490, John Manfield, a friar-minor, commonly called Brother John
Carr. Kat. relict of Richard Blomevyle, Esq.; he was deprived in
1504, and


Edward Pennant, a great acquaintance of Sir Edw. Howard,
Knt. otherwise called Edward ap Res, clerk, was instituted by lapse.


1509, Thomas Warde. Nic. Appleyard, Esq.


1517, Henry Woodhouse, on Warde's deprivation. John Brooke
and Constance his wife. At his death in


1540, Richard Hudson. John Robsart, Esq. in right of the
jointure of Elizabeth his wife; at his death in


1557, Will. Knightbridge had it of the gift of Edw. Blomevyle,
Esq. who at his death in 1559, gave it to


John Beare, and at his death in


1566, to John Skeet. In 1567, Thomas Blundevile, Esq. settled
Blumvyle's manor, &c. on John Blumvyle in trust for the said Thomas,
who presented the three following rectors:


1570, John Fenton.


1576, George Reynolds; and at his death in


1596, William Reynolds, who returned answer, that he had 113
communicants in this parish. In 1616, James Goodinge and Richard
Deane, Gents conveyed the manor to Lionel Seman, Gent. In 1626,
at Reynolds's death,


Thomas Stokes, A. M. was presented by Rowland Meyrick of Taseburgh, Esq. in right of Elizabeth his wife, and held it
united to Carleton Rode.


Samuel Stalham, on whose death in


1672, Samuel Snowden, A. M. succeeded, and held it united to
Swainsthorp. John Burman of Brakendale for this turn.


1721, The Rev. William Berney, clerk, the present rector, holds it
united to the rectory of Frettenham, and curacy of Dunston. He
was presented by Mathew Long, Esq. who was succeeded in the
advowson and lordship by


Israel Long, Esq. of Dunston, who is the present lord of Newton-hall manor, (fn. 17) with the three parts of Malherbe's, and sole patron of


The church, which is dedicated to the Virgin Mary, and was
rebuilt in 1385, by the lords of the manors, and the parishioners.
Thomas de Bumpstede, citizen of Norwich, gave 50l. towards it. This
church is 28 yards long, and 7 broad, but hath no isles; it is leaded,
[Page 069]
as is the chancel also, the south porch is tiled; it hath a square
tower and two bells; there is an inscription on the battlements, which
are so high I could not read it, nor make out all the arms carved
there; but among them are, 1st, Blundeville impaling five de-lises.
Ditto impaling Gurnay. Over the vault (in which many of the
Blundeviles are interred) against the north wall is erected an inarched
monument, having Noah's ark figured therein, with this, Irtta
Ecclesiam non est Salus, and on either side a square pillar vert,
the whole supported with four marble pillars, dividing it into three
partitions; in the first of which are three men in armour, in a praying
posture, with each a reading-desk before them, and over them,

Richardus Blondevyle obiit Ano Dni. 1490, Etatis sue 85
Radulphus Blondevile obiit Ano Dni. 1514, Etatis sue 45
Edwardus Blondevile obiit Dni. 1568, Etatis sue 75
Tho. Blondevyle Posuit 1571.


Here lyes in Grave, nowe thre tymes done,
The Grandsire, Father, and the Sone,
Theyr Names, theyr Age, and when they dyed,
Above their headds is speryfyed,
Theyr Sheyld of Arms doth eke declare,
The Stocke wyth whom they mached were,
They lyved well, and dyed as well,
And nowe with God in Heaven they dwell,
And thear do prayse hus holn Name,
God graunt that we may do the same.


1. Blundeville, quarterly per fess indented or and az. a bend
G. impales Inglosse.


2. Ditto impales Gurnay. 3. Ditto impales Godsalve.
And on the stone work just under the brass plates, are painted two
shields, in the first,


Blundevile quarters Ardesley, arg. a fess fusillé gul. in chief three
bulls heads cooped sab. in base Hemenhale. On the 2d, Blundevile
quarters Sir Rauf Hemenhal or Hemnal's arms.


In the second partition is the effigies of a man in armour, kneeling
at a faldstool, with a book, and his helmet lying thereon, he being
bareheaded; over him,

Thomas Blundevile, Filius Edwardi.


And under him are two shields.


1. Blundevile impales Johnson, or, a water-budget, on a chief
sab. three bezants.


2. Blundevile impales Puttingham or Puttenham, sab.
crusuly, a stork arg. quartering,


Warbleton, or Warburton, lozengé or and B.


In the third partition are four effigies in stone, viz. two wives and
two daughters, and over them,

Rosa et Margareta Urores Thome Blundevile cum Fil' suis
Elizabetha et Patientia.


Under them, sab. a lion rampant between three croslets crossed arg.
impaled with Blundevile, and Blundevile single.


[Page 070]
On a small black marble monument,


Here lyeth Patience the wife of Robert King, and daughter of
Tho. Blundevyle, who lived vertuously, and died religiously, Jan.
7, 1638.


Disce Mori. Mr. Robert Edwards late of this Parish, died
Febr. 3, 1732, 68.


There are stones in the church for Edward Youngs, Nov. 8, 1655,
John Youngs 1625; and there was formerly a stone in the chancel for,
Thomas Warden, Gent. son of Edward Warden, late alderman of Norwich, ob. 22 March, 1582. Arms, a cross frette.


In 1511, John Bremer, Gent. of Newton, was buried there, and gave
Surlingham to Nic. his eldest son, and his house in Newton, &c. and
Nether-hall in Saxlingham, to John his 2d son; and his estate in Saxlingham-Thorp, to Edward his youngest son; Olive his wife, Lettice,
Anne, and Elizabeth, his daughters, survived him.


In 1552, Cecily Fastolf of Newton gave a legacy to Ric. Blumvyle,
Gent. and Edw. Fastolphe, Gent. and Florence his sister, who were her
nephews and neice.


The family of the Newtons take their name from this town, where
they had a good estate, which was a capital messuage with divers
rents belonging to it, that was owned in 1309, by John de Newton,
in 1324, by Thomas Newton, in 1475, by Will. de Newton, who sold
part of it, and released divers rents to Nic. Appleyard, Esq. and John
Appleyard, senior, and their heirs. In 1477, Margaret, widow of
John Newton, released Newton's Place here, to Will. of Newton her
son, whose son William, in 1503, by the name of Will. Newton of
Wreningham, and his feoffees, John Manfield, late of Newton, clerk,
and John Wardeyn, rector of Wreningham, conveyed the greatest
part of it to Nic. Appleyard of Brakene, Esq. and John his son and
heir, and Will. Neve of Betelee, his trustee, and so it was joined to
Ranthorp manor.






















Footnotes


1.   Terra Toui. H. Humiliart. Doms.
fo. 279.
In Niwetuna ii. liberi homines, xxx.
acr. de uno et dim. habuit antecessor
Rogeri Bigot comd. T. R. E. et de dimidio antecessor Radulfi de Bellofago, semper v. bor. et i. car. et iiii. acr. prati, et
iiii. liberi homines de xii. acr. et dim tunc
valuit x. sol. modo xiii. sol et iiii. d.
2.   Terra Rogeri Bigoti. H. Humiliart. Doms. fo. 122. In Niwetuna
xv. acr. de de dominio de Hethella
semper i. car. et i. mol. et val. v.s.
(fo. 139.)
3.   In Niwetuna i. lib. homo, xv.
acr. et. ii. bor. et val. xvi.d.
4.   He seems to be son of Robert de
Blomevyle, who lived here about 1190.
5.   1360, Bertram de Blunnel released
all his right to William, and Katherine
his wife.
6.   1495, Katherine Blomevyle died a
widow, and Lady Eleanor Jenny administered.
7.   Terra Rogeri de Ramis, H. Humiliart. fo. 276. Raniltorp tenuit
Ailuuinus, i. lib. homo lx. acr. terre,
modo tenet Wills. semper i. car. et
vii. acr. prati et ii. mol. et quinta pars
mol. et vi. lib. homines vii. acr. semper
dim. car. et i. liber homo comd. xxx.
acr. tunc ii. villani modo i. semper dim.
car. et i. acr. prati, tunc valuit xxx.
sol. modo xliii.
8.   Carta Willi. filii Milonis de Hastinges, qui tenuit feod. duorum militum de Rogero de Reines, &c. item in
com. Norf. Galfridus de Reinesthorp
ten. feodum unius militis. Lib. Nig.
Scac. Essex. edit. per T. Hearne, A. M.
Oxon vol. i. p. 237. By which it should
seem, that a part here came to the
Reinesthorp or Ranthorp family, very
early.
9.   Terra Rogeri Bigoti. H. Humiliart. Domsd. fo. 139. In Rainestorp, dim. lib. homo T. R. E. xxx.
acr. modo tenet Waregius tunc ii. villani modo i. semper dim. cor. et i. acr.
prati, et val. v. sol.
10.   Rot. Pip. 1. R. I. Norf. Madox
Hist. Exchq. fo. 295.
11.   In 1345, Ric. de Bradenham, Jef.
de Snoryng, Barth. de Salle, Rob. son
of Ralf Bumpstede or Benstede, junior,
and Ric. Melton, were lords.
12.   In 1481, he gave an annuity of six
marks to Elizabeth his wife, out of this
manor.
13.   1461, Eliz. Clere held it in trust.
14.   James Bigot, Gent. married Anne,
sister to John Appleyard.
15.   See p. 59.
16.   Paid to the King in 1612.
17.   Blundevile's manor-house, commonly called Newton-hall, stands on the
left hand of the road from Norwich to
Newton, about a half a mile north-east
of the church, and Ranthorp hall stands
as much south-east, between Newton
and Flordon.














PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















