 - 1 - 
Class  
£:i^_   
CoBiigIitN°C=AY^ 
COPYRIGHT  DEPOSm 
 - 2 - 
 - 3 - 
 - 4 - 
 - 5 - 
 - 6 - 
 - 7 - 
 - 8 - 
 - 9 - 
^y/^-^yy-z-c^^z.^/'       ^x 
<y^2^^^^^~z^^—^^ ^ 
 - 10 - 
HISTORY 
OF 
B  I  L  L  EEIC  A, 
MASSACHUSETTS, 
AYITH 
A  GENEALOGICAL  REGISTER, 
BY 
/ 
THE  REV.  HENRY  A.  HAZEN,  A.  M., 
MEMBER  OF  THE  NEW  ENGLAND  HISTORIC, 
GENEALOGICAI,  SOCIETY. 
BOSTON  : 
A.     WILLIAMS     AND     CO. 
'^\A  ^ojjuei]  Boohstoiie. 
1883. 
oW  ■
 - 11 - 
Copyright  by  Hunry  A.  Hazen,  1882. 
Harden  &  Rowell,  Lowell,  Printers. 
 - 12 - 
INTRODUCTION, 
Aiilli^torical  3Iemoir  of  BilJerica.  i)uh\iii]wd  by  John  Farmer,  in  the 
year  ISK!,  was,  perhaps,  thn  earliest  history  of  a  Massachusetts  town  in- 
tlcpendently  printed  and  publi-ihed.  It  is  a  pamphlet  of  36  pages,  printed 
at  Amlierst,  X.  H.  Its  intrinsic  excellence  and  the  subsequent  fame  of  its 
author  have  given  it  celebrity  as  a  rare  treasure  of  local  history,  and  it 
has  recently  been  reprinted. 
The  need  of  a  fuller  history  has  l>cen  felt.  and.  as  early  as  1869,  the 
town  appointed  the  Conunittee  under  whose  auspices  this  volume  has  been 
l)re])ared.  This  Committee  consisted  of  (iardniM-  Parker.  Esq..  Dudley 
Foster,  the  [Ion.  Thomas  Talbot,  and  the  IJev.  Christo])her  C.  Hussey.  For 
some  years  this  Conunittee  failed  to  secui-e  any  arrangcMuent  for  the  prose- 
cution of  
the  work.  In  1S77.  uuich  to  his  own  surj)rise,  a  fifth  member  was 
added  to  this  Conunittee.  Had  he  foreseen  some  of  the  consequences,  he 
Avould  have  hesitated  to  accept  the  honor;  but,  with  a  hearty  interest  in  the 
o))ject  proposed.  h(»  was  not  unwiUing  to  aid,  if  he  could,  in  its  furtherance. 
The  steps  by  whicli  the  result  has  been  reached  are  not  of  consequence  to 
the  public  ;  
but  the  result  is  that  he  must  accej)t  the  responsibility  of  the 
volume  here  offered  to  the  town  and  the  public,  and.  dro])])ing  tiie  third 
person,  will  add  a  few  explanator}'  words. 
Xo  single  vohnne  can  so  fully  and  adequately  describe  the  life  of  a 
town,  that  there  will  not  remain  ample  materials  for  other  volumes,  which 
may  have  equal  reason  for  their  being.  This  is  true  of  Billerica.  The  rec- 
ords alone  would  furnish  voluuies,  which  should  be  printed;  and.  beyond 
these  sources,  are  exhaustless  stoi'es  of  meniorj^  and  tradition,  fact  and 
fancj^  which  would  enrich  the  pages  of  a  recorder  who  could  glean  dili- 
gentlj'-  and  sift  judiciously.  Xot  a  native,  or  long  a  resident,'  of  the  town, 
I  have  done  my  work  at  some  disadvantage  in  this  direction,  and  many 
will  seek  here  for  details  which  thej^  will  not  find.  My  aim  has  been  to 
go  back  to  the  beginning,  to  lift  the  veil  from  a  past  m  hich  lias  been  al- 
most forgotten,  and  to  trace  the  foundations  on  which  the  modern  siq)er- 
structure  is  reared.  Tlie  later  history,  for  the  last  hundred  years,  is  more 
accessible  and  familiar,  and  1  have  not  intended  to  traverse  it  with  much 
detail.  The  limitations  of  this  volume  would  not  allow  similar  and  ade- 
quate fulness  in  both  the  earlier  and  later  periods,  and  it  has  seemed  to  me 
 - 13 - 
iv.  INTRODUCTION. 
due  to  the  fathers,  that  our  lirst  ott'ort  be  to  recover  and  record  the  story  of 
their  i>loughhig  and  seed-sowing,  of  wliich  our  modern  life,  since  ITOO,  is 
only  the  fruit. 
I  have  drawn  the  materials  for  these  pages  chiefly  from  the  records, 
and  from  other  original  and  hitherto  unpublished  sources.  With  more 
time  to  explore  and  digest  the  very  copious  material,  I  could  have  satisfied 
my  own  ideal  much  more  fully;  but  the  opportunity  is  wanting,  and  such 
as  it  is,  I  submit  the  volume  to  the  use  and  charitable. judgment  of  that 
lar^e  and  increasing  number  who  are  intei*ested  in  our  local  New  England 
history  and  genealogy. 
The  separate  paging  of  the  Genealogical  Register  is  due  to  the  fact  that 
it  was  first  completed  and  printed,  and  the  families  being  arranged  alpha- 
betically, the  
paging  is  in  that  part  not  important.  If  the  question  arises 
^^  
by  any  family,  now  resident  in  town,  is  not  recorded  in  the  Register,  the 
answer  is,  that  the  I'ecord  was  not  furnished.  At  two  town  meetings,  and 
on  other  occasions,  citizens  were  invited  to  furnish  their  family  record  for 
this  use,  and  none  which  were  furnished  are  omitted. 
For  encouragement  and  aid  in  tlie  work,  thanks  are  due  to  friends  more 
nuraei'ous  than  I  can  mention.  Many,  not  named,  are  not  forgotten,  if  I 
refer  to  a  few,  whom  it  Avere  unpardonable  to  omit.  The  kindness  and  co- 
operation of  
each  member  of  the  Historical  Committee  have  been  constant 
and  unstinted,  and  I  record  it  here  most  gratefully  ;  while  to  Mr.  Foster 
and  his  good  wife  (whose  recent  death  makes  their  pleasant  home  deso- 
late)I,   am  specially  indebted  for  the  lists  of  town  officers,  and  for  the  use- 
ful alphabetical  copy,  made  by  thein,  of  the  Baptisms  found  in  the  records 
of  the  First  Church.  Mr.  Franklin  .Taquith  copied  the  inscriptions  in  the 
South  BurjMng  Ground,  and  those  in  the  Old  Corner  Burj'ing  Ground  were 
as  kindly  copied  by  Mrs.  Holt.  Mr.  Jaquith  also  prepared  with  great  care 
the  list  of  soldiers  from  Billerlca  in  the  late  war.  Dr.  C.  E.  Hosmer  ren- 
dered important  aid  in  preparing  the  Map  of  Ancient  Billerica.  The  use  of 
valuable  surveys  and  papers  has  been  generously  granted  by  Mrs.  Samuel 
Sage,  Mr.  Leander  Crosbj%  Mr.  Merton  Simonds,  of  Bedford,  Peter  E. 
Vose,  Esq.,  of  Dennysville,  Me.,  and  the  Rev.  Henry  M.  Dexter,  D.  D., 
of  New  Bedford.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  A.  B.  Cutler,  of  Bedford,  have  most  kindly 
given  me  every  opportunity  to  use  the  invaluable  Lane  Papers  in  their  pos- 
session. The  Hon.  Samuel  A.  Green,  M.  D.,  Mayor  of  Boston,  has  not 
only  given  free  access  to  the  library  of  the  Massachusetts  Historical  So- 
ciety, but,  by  constant  and  valuable  suggestions,  aided  me  very  materiallj'^  ; 
and  Mr.  John  Ward  Dean,  of  the  New  England  Historic,  Genealogical  So- 
ciety, has  been  not  less  helpful.    The  Congregational  Library,  rich  in  local 
 - 14 - 
INTRODUCTION.  V. 
history  and  genealogy,  has  been  always  at  mj^  service,  while  to  IMiss  Mary 
E.  Stone,  its  assistant  lil)rarian,  especial  thanks  are  due,  for  invaluable  aid, 
most  cheerfully  rendered,  in  reading  proof  of  nian^y  of  these  pages.  In  n)y 
researches  among  the  Massachusetts  Archives  in  the  Secretarj'  of  State's 
office,  the  aid  of  Dr.  Edward  Strong  has  been  of  great  service  ;  and  thanks 
are  due  to  Mr.  David  Pulsifer,  of  the  same  office.  Others,  who  should  be 
named  in  the  same  spirit,  are,  Mrs.  Bennett  and  Mr.  W.  W.  AVarren,  Dr. 
Augustus  Whiting,  of  Charlestown,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  L.  W.  Faulkner,  Mr.  C. 
H.  Hill,  Mr.  E.  J.  Hill  and  Dr.  F.  V.  Noj^es ;  and  the  volume  might  have 
an  appropriate  dedication  to  the  memory  of  Cai)t.  Charles  A.  Kanlett,  to 
whose  historic  interest  much  was  due  in  the  inception  of  the  enterjti-ise. 
In  closing,  I  may  be  permitted  to  record  the  satisfaction  which  I  have 
found  in  the  researches  and  labors  which  this  work  has  involved.  My 
experience  in  such  inquiries  was  limited  ;  if  it  had  been  greater  I  should 
scarcely  have  consented  to  accept  the  responsibility *of  the  undertaking. 
But  it  is  only  the  truth  to  say,  that  it  has  largely  been  a  labor  of  love,  giv- 
ing its  
own  constant  reward.  I  have  learned  to  honor  the  founders  of  this 
town,  and  the  generations  which  have  builded  upon  their  foundations.  If 
this  volume  shall  aid  to  any  extent  in  setting  their  work  and  memory  in 
clearer  light,  and  securing  a  more  just  appreciation  of  their  toils  and  sac- 
rifices, I  
shall  be  content.  At  the  same  time  I  have  more  faith  in  the  as- 
surance that  the  former  days  were  not  better  than  these,  but  that  there  has 
been  substantial  progress.  The  candid  and  careful  student  of  the  ancient 
records  can  reach  no  other  conclusion.     The  golden  age  is  not  in  the  past. 
HEXRY  A.  IIAZEX. 
AuBURNDALE,  1  Dec.  1882. 
 - 15 - 
COINTENTS. 
CHAPTER  I.  —  Early  Grants  —  Shawsiiin. 
Grants  to  Govs.  Winthrop  and  Dudley.  3,  4;  "'The  Two  Brothers,"  4;  to 
otlicrs  and  to  Mrs,  Winthrop,  5;  Cambridge.  6-9;  Dudley  farm  sold* 
10;  Grants  from  Cambridge,  12-4;  petition  of  Shawshin,  16-8;  named 
liillciica,  and  extended  west  of  Concord  river.  19;  Cambridge,  agree- 
niciit  and  separation.  20-2. 
CHAT.  11.— F1K8T  Settleh.s  —  Locations  and  KELATiONSiiirs. 
The  ••Farm"  and  the  ••Township,"  23-5;  settlers  from  Cambridge,  Wol)urn 
anil  Braintree,  26-9. 
CHAP.  III.  —  Land  Distribution. 
•■Farm"  and  •"Township"  agreement,  31-2;  early  diyisionsi  of  land,  34-9; 
Cliurch  farm.  40;  College  farm.  41;  farms  of  Champnej'  and  others, 
41;  ••Naticott"  grant  to  Billeriea;  its  sale  to  Brenton,  42-4;  John 
Cromwell.  45;  Cand)ridge  ''Great  Deed,''  46;  grant  of  4000  acres,  47; 
sold  to  Parker.  48. 
CHAP.  IV.— The  Stouy  as  tolu  in  the  Records. 
Account  of  the  •■Kecord"  volumes,  51-3;  Rights,  acre-lots.  54;  rating,  55; 
house  for  minister.  57 ;  first  town  otticers,  59 ;  instructions  to  Select- 
men. 61  ;  
Maj.  VVillard,  letter  from,  62;  the  common  herd.  63;  killing 
■wolves,  65 ;  
yoking  swine,  60 ;  
shade  trees  and  buiying  place,  67 ;  
Cam- 
bridge titles,  68  ;  
sale  of  mill-lot,  68  ;  
town  charges,  1663.  69. 
CHAP.  V.  —  Boundaries. 
Andover.  73-5;  Concord,  controversy,  76-81;  Woburn,  82-6. 
CHAP.  VI.  —  Roads  and  Bridges. 
Early  ways,  87;  road'to  Woburn.  88;  Ctmcord,  89;  Andover,  90;  Wamesit, 
91;  East  road,  92;  Lexington.  94;  Charnestaffe  lane,  95;  West  St..  96; 
treble-cove  and  rangewa3\  97;  bridges.  97-101. 
CHAP.  VII.  —  The  Indians  and  Wamesit. 
Wamesit  reservation,  103;  chiefs,  104;  John  Eliot;  Gookin's  narrative,  105; 
Philip's  war,  109 ;  garrisons.  109;  Chelmsford  assailed,  114;  Groton, 
petition,  115;  soldiers  from  Billeriea,  117;  the  Christian  Indians;  their 
wrongs,  117;  alarm  at  Billeriea;  the  reported  massacre,  119;  hard- 
ships, 121   ;  
Kennebec  expedition,  122. 
 - 16 - 
CONTENTS,  Vll. 
CHAP.  VIII.  —  Indian  and  Military. 
Indian  deeds,  123;  sale,  of  Wamesit,  124;  the  Winthrops  seek  lo  recover, 
125;  military  company,  125;  Canada  expedition;  Dunstable  assailed;  Lt. 
Wilson  at  Cocheco,  126;  Billerica's  first  massacre,  127;  second  massa- 
cre, 129  ;  
Mrs.  Toothaker,  130 ;  militai-y  life  and  trials,  132  ;  
Hunt's  gar- 
rison, 134  ;  
Col.  John  Lane,  135  ;  
Queen  Anne's  war,  136 ;  soldiers  from 
Billerica,  137 ;  
Dunstable  attacked,  140  ;  
Lovewell's  expedition,  141  ; 
Louisburg,  142  ;  service  on  Connecticut  river,  143  ;  sad  day  for  Biller- 
ica, 143  ;  
Josiah  Crosby,  144 ;  
French  and  Indian  war,  145  ;  soldiers 
from  Billerica,  147 ;  
the  French  neutrals,  151. 
CHAP.  IX.  —  Religious  History. 
Mr.  Miller.  Mr.  Whiting.  153  ;  
meeting-house,  154 ;  
Danf  orth  and  the  Chelms- 
ford church,  15G;  difficulties  of  church  organization,  159;  at  last  ef- 
fected, 160  ;  the  first  pastor,  163  ;  covenant,  163  ;  
half-waj'  covenant, 
164 ;  minister's  rate,  165  ;  arrears.  166  ;  repairs  and  neAV  meeting-house, 
168  ;  seats,  169 ;  
Mr.  Whiting's  character.  170 ;  
frees  his  slave,  170 ;  col- 
league, 172;  his  death,  174;  Mr.  Euggles'  ministry.  174;  third  meet- 
ing-house, 175;  
pew  ground  and  seats.  176;  bell,  177;  list  of  sittings, 
178 ;  
Mr.  Chandler  settled,  181  ;  death  of  Mr.  Ruggles,  182  ;  
brief  and 
troubled  pastorate  of  Mr.  Chandler,  183. 
CHAP.  X.  —  Gleanings  from  Records. 
Testimonial  of  loyalty,  185;  fat  ox  for  Mr.  Davie,  186;  basis  of  rates 
changed,  187;  Crosby's  public  house,  188;  aid  to  the  poor;  tything- 
men,  189  ;  oath  of  fidelitj^  191  ;  subscription  for  Harvard  College,  192  ; 
early  tax  lists.  &c..  193;  mill  swamp  drowned,  195;  entertainments  at 
public  house,  196 ;  witchcraft  ;  
Mrs.  Carrier,  196 ;  receipts  and  expen- 
ses of  town,  1714,  201  ;  
tax  Usts,  1733  and  1755,  203. 
CHAP.  XI.  —Land  Distribution. 
List  of  rights,  1685,  208 ;  other  claims,  209 ;  extensive  divisions,  210 ;  grant- 
ees, 213;  west  side,  214;  ministry  lot;  sale  of  land  to  Capt.  Reed.  215. 
CHAP.  Xn.  —  Dismemberment. 
Wamesit  ''Purchase,"  217;  Bedford,  218;  Tewksbury,  220;  Wilmington, 
222  ;  
Carlisle,  223. 
CHAP.  XIII.  —  The  Revolution. 
Resolutions,  1768,  226;  non-importation,  227;  resolutions,  1773,  227;  Bos- 
ton port  bill  ;  
the  toAvn's  response,  229  ;  will  not  use  British  goods,  231  ; 
militia.  232 ;  committee  of  inspection  ;  minute  men,  233  ;  
Ditson  tan-ed 
and  feathered,  234 ;  the  19th  of  April,  235  ;  committee  of  correspond- 
ence, inspection  and  safety,  237  ;  
Bunker  Hill  ;  
independence,  238 ;  calls 
for  troops,  239  ;  
inflation  of  the  currency,  240 ;  aid  for  soldiers,  241  ; 
list  of  soldiers,  243 ;  
tax-list,  1776,  247. 
 - 17 - 
viil.  CONTENTS. 
rilAr.  XIV.  —  Education. 
Catochising.  252;  Joseph  Toinpson,  schoolmaster,  25.S;  others,  254;  squad- 
rons. 2r»r>;  school-houses;  school-danies,  25G;  Peinbertou  Academy, 
Billcrica  Academy.  257;  Howe  school,  258;  Boy's  school,  2.59. 
CHAP.  XV.  —  Religious  History. 
Henry  Cumings  settled,  2G0;  ''recollections''  of  him,  2G1;  new  meeting- 
liouse,  and  pew-list.  263;  the  pastor's  theological  position,  2G4;  extract 
trom  sermons.  2G5  ;  colleague  settled;  death  of  Dr.  Cumings.  2GG;  Mr. 
Wliit  man's  ministry  ;  
disturbing  elements  ;  town  ceases  to  rapport,  267 ; 
his  resignation.  2GS ;  successors.  2G9 ;  First  Baptist  Chun  h,  269  ;  pas- 
tors; Congregational  Church,  270;  other  churches,  272. 
CHAP.  XVI.  —  Canal,  Turnpike  and  Railroads. 
Middlesex  Canal,  273;  stages;  Boston  &  Lowell  Railroad,  275;  the  ''Nar- 
row Gauge,"  276. 
CHAP.  XVn.  —  Mills  —  Manufactures. 
Early  mills,  278;  grant  to  Osgood;  its  history,  279 ;  contest  with  towns 
above,  on  Concord  river  ;  
Faulkner's  mills,  280 ;  
Talbot's  mills  ;  
Hill's 
machine  shop ;  
Patten's  manufactory,  281  ;  
Jaquith's  glue  factory,  282. 
CHAP.  XVHI.  —  Billerica  in  the  Rebellion. 
Raising  troops,  283;  monument,  284;  record  of  soldiers,  285. 
CHAP.  XIX.  —  The  Mother-Town  op  Billericay. 
Description.  293;  historic  items,  295;  meaning  of  name,  29G. 
CHAP.  XX.  —  Miscellaneous  and  Final. 
Billerica  graduates;  lawyers  and  physicians,  302;  town  officers,  304;  post- 
masters, 307;  population,  309  :  census.  310;  voting  list,  1880,  312;  li- 
braries, 315;  celebrations;  Indian  names,  316;  surroundings  and  scen- 
ery, 317. 
 - 18 - 
LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS. 
I'OI.'TIJAIT   OF   'I'lIOMAS   TALIiOT          Front  is|)i«'C('. 
Mat  of  Ancucnt  Rii.lkhioa                                                                           ]).  1(» 
(jAKiiisox  JIoi  .SE.    Fn'iiclrr'                                                                                                           ill 
Howe  Hciiool                                                                                                       '2'u 
FJovs"  Hcirooi..    M.  C.  MnciiEij                                                               2r)S 
First  Chuhch  and  Coai.mox                                                                                ■2(\:i 
P.ArxiST  Chuhch                                                                                 'ifi!) 
('ox(;he(;ati«)NA[.  CnuKCir                                                                            271 
lUi'TisT  Chuijcii,  Xoktii  Hili,ki;ica                                                                   272 
KAir.KNEU  Mii.i                                                                                                                           27!) 
Taluot  Mi\A                                                                                                                280 
Soldiers  Monujient                                                                                2S4 
UiLi.ERiCAY.  Ex<;..  Main  Street                                                              2!)4 
Parish  (HrRcn                                                                  29S 
liENXFyrr  Library                                                                                     .{IT) 
IJESIDEXCE   and   rOUTRAIT   OF   MrS.    ISeXXETT        10 
I'ORTRAIT   OF    liKV.    IIeXRV    C'lMIX(iS.    I).    D    .'i:! 
Daxforth  GAin!isf»x   IIolse                                                                                 ;^4 
I'oRTRAiT  OF  Francis  Fafi.kxer                                                                52 
HESIDEXCE  of   IjI  TIH.R    W.    FAILKXEK"                                                                         r)2 
I'ORTRAIT   of   IIOX.   JOSIAII    P'REXCH                                                                                            <•() 
Ilii.i.  Garrison  Holsk                                                                              (i^ 
IfESIDEXCE   OF   ("IIARI.ES    H.    IIU.1                                                                                             72 
.lAQl'ITH    IIO.AIESTEAl>S                                                                                                                             7() 
•K  DKTxs  Homestead                                                                            80 
Kesidexce  of  Thomas  Tai.bot                                                                      14(1 
HUFUS    K,   l^NDERHIEl                                                            l-")2 
Portrait  of  Dea.  Saaiiee  Whitixc;           1;")!> 
 - 19 - 
 - 20 - 
HISTOEY   or    BILLERICA. 
CHAPTER     I. 
EARLY    GRANTS    SHAWSHIN. 
The  Pilgrims  came  to  Plymouth  in  the  yesiV  1G20.  Dover  and 
Portsmouth  were  occupied  in  1623.  Then  five  j^ears  passed,  and 
Endecott,  with  the  first  Puritan  company,  arrived  at  Naumkeak 
and  laid  the  foundations  of  Salem.  In  1629  the  charter  of  Mass- 
achusetts was  granted  by  King  Charles,  and  other  settlers  occupied 
Weymouth,  Mi shawum  (or  Chai-lestown)  ,  and  Saugust  (or  Lynn). 
The  arrivals  in  1630  were  more  numerous,  fourteen  'sail'  and  fifteen 
hundred  passengers,  with  Winthrop  and  Dudley-  among  them.  Some 
of  the  Charlestown  people  moved  across  the  Charles  river  to  Shaw- 
mut,  or  Trimountain,  where,  for  some  years,  a  solitary-  Episcopal 
clergyman  named  Blackstoue  had  been  living  a  hermit  life,  and  thus 
Boston  was  born.  Mattapau  (or  Dorchester),  Roxbury,  Watertown 
and  Meadford  were  occupied  the  same  A^ear.  Connecticut  was 
chartered  in  1631,  and  Newtown  was  occupied  with  the  intention 
of  fortifying  and  making  it  the  chief  town  of  the  colony.  Governor 
Wintlnop  and  Assistant-Governor  Dudley  began  to  build  there, 
but  Winthrop  and  some  others  becoming  dissatisfied  or  convinced 
that  it  was  an  error  to  leave  Boston,  returned,  and  the  early  rivalry 
between  Caml^ridge  and  Boston  resulted  in  favor  of  the  latter  town. 
The  year  1633  was  memorable  for  the  coming  of  John  Cotton,  the 
eminent  divine  and  friend  of  Cromwell,  who  brought  the  name  of 
his  own  English  Boston,  and  gave  it  new  fame  b}'  supplanting  the 
T'ldian  name  Shawmut.  Thomas  Hooker  and  his  compau}-  also 
arrived  that  year  and  settled  in  Newtown  ;  but  after  three  years, 
nding  that  they  had  not  room  enough,  removed  to  Hartford. 
Agawam  (or  Ipswich)  and  Hingham  were  also  settled.  With  1635, 
Newbury  was  occupied,  and  the  first  plantations  were  made  inland, 
 - 21 - 
2  HISTORY    OF    BILLEKICA. 
at  Miisketaqnifl  (Concord),  and  Springfield;  and  there  followed 
Dedhain,  in  ICuMj  ;  
Sudburv,  in  1G37;  Enou  (or  Wenham) ,  
Glouces- 
ter iind  Kowlev,  in  1(531);  Salisbnrv,  Lynn  Village  (Reading), 
W()l)urn  and  Braintree,  in  1G40;  Pentucket  (Haverhill),  and 
Nantasket  (Hull),  in  1G41  ;  Topslield,  in  1642;  Bradford  and 
Coehicliawick  (Andover),  in  1(J43  ;  and  Nashawa}'  (Lancaster), 
and  Maiden,  in  1 048.  In  twenty  years  the  Massachusetts  Colony 
had  i)Ianted  thirty-one  towns,  not  including  Dover,  Portsmouth, 
Hampton  and  Exeter,  now  in  New  Hampshire,  but  then  in  her 
jurisdiction.  Tlie  Plymouth  Colony  in  1648  numbered  seven  towns; 
Connecticut,  fifteen  ;  Rhode  Island,  four  ;  and  in  Maine  there  were 
three  :  York,  Saco  and  Wells.  In  all  New  England  there  were 
sixty-four  towns  at  this  time. 
The  d'.'sire  of  the  earl^'  colonists  for  ample  room  in  their  settle- 
ments was  natural.  They  came  from  a  country  where  landed  pos- 
sessions were  largely  the  basis  of  wealth  and  rank.  They  were 
laj'ing  foundations  here  and  looking  to  the  future  with  large  views 
and  large  faith,  and  the  opportunity  naturally  awakened  t'le  purpose 
to  endow  their  children  with  acres  enough  upon  which  to  build  a 
prosperous  future.  So  with  Boston  on  one  side,  and  Watertown  on 
the  other,  Hooker  and  his  company  felt  themselves  straightened  in 
Newtown,  and  removed  to  the  inviting  meadows  of  the  Connecticut  ; 
and  Charlestown,  Lynn  and  Ipswich  were  soon  seeking  for  room  to 
expand.  Reading  and  Woburn  grew  up  the  children  of  these 
parent  towns,  and  Billerica  drew  her  first  life  from  Cambridge,  which 
Newtown  had  become  with  the  planting  of  Harvard  College  there. 
The  first  pulsation  of  the  life  of  Billerica  ma}'  be  found  in  a 
record  of  the  General  Court,  "■  1635-6,  3  March.  The  Goun'',  Dep- 
uty Gonn',  and  John  Winthrop,  Sen"',  Esq"',  or  any  two  of  them, 
are  intreated  to  vewe  Shaweshin  and  soe  to  informe  the  next  Genall 
Court  whither  or  noe  it  may  not  be  a  fitt  place  for  a  plantacon." 
Concord  had  been  occupied  the  previous  year,  and  the  vicinity 
would  naturall}'  receive  new  attention.  This  governor  was  Mr. 
John  Haynes  who  removed  in  October  of  the  same  3'ear  with 
Mr.  Hooker's  company  to  Hartford,  and  became  the  first  governor 
of  Connecticut  Mr.  John  Winthrop  was  the  eminent  first  governor 
of  Massachusetts.  The  removal  of  Mr.  Ilavnes  may  have  interfered 
with  his  exploring  Shawshin  ;  and  there  is  no  evidence  that  the  next 
General  Court  received  the  information  desired.  But  we  may  infer 
that  Mr.  AVinthrop  did  not  personally  neglect  it,  and  we  soon  find 
him  receiving  nn  important  grant  here. 
 - 22 - 
EARLY    GRANTS     SHAWSHIN.  3 
About  this  time  the  name  of  Shawshiu  is  heard  iu  England. 
Mathew  Cradock  Avas  the  first  governor  of  the  Massachusetts 
company,  and  invested  his  wealth  very  freely  for  the  promotion 
of  the  colony.  He  was  the  founder  of  Medford,  and  Wiiithrop 
succeeded  him  iu  office  when  the  colony  was  sufflcientl}'  developed 
to  need  a  resident  governor.  In  a  letter  to  Governor  Winthrop, 
bearing  date  1636,  Sept.  13,  he  adds  a  postscript,  afterwards 
cancelled,  as  follows  : ^  
'■Sir:  I  have  a  purpose  to  apply  myself  to  tyllidge  &  increasing 
my  stock  of  Cattel,  &  having  had  recourse  to  a  plase  caled  Shawe 
Shynn,  where  1  hear  none  comes  but  myselfe,  I  desire  your  ffauour, 
when  tlie  Court  Slialbee  moved  in  my  belialfe,  that  I  may  have  2000 
Acres  there  allotted  to  me  where  I  shall  find  it  most  convenient  ffor 
mee.  I  know  the  orders  made  heere  in  Courte  allowe  me  maney 
thousand  acres  more  than  I  intend  to  demand  or  looke  after.  This 
my  suite  1  liope  will  give  oftenee  to  none,  &  when  I  shall  putt  up 
a  tenement  &  a  dame,  as  I  have  herewith  given  order  thereabout,  I 
hope  in  a  short  time  others  will  ffoUowe,  if  on(!e  a  good  minister  be 
plased  there,  and  I  am  persuaded  the  more  English  Corne  is  eherised 
the  better  it  will  be  for  the  whole  plantacion.  I  once  more  take  my 
leave  &   Rest." 
''Yours.   MATHEW   CRADOCK." 
For  some  reason  Mr.  Cradock  did  not  pursue  the  matter,  and 
the  settlement  of  Shawsbin  was  perhaps  delayed  by  this  failure. 
Possibh'  Cambridge  was  already  on  the  outlook  for  the  grant  subse- 
quentl}'  made  to  that  town.  A  3ear  passed  and  the  Court  moves 
again  in  August,  1637.  *'Cap'  Jeanison  &  Leif  Willi:  Spencer 
were  appointed  to  veivve  Shawsbin  &  to  consider  whether  it  be  fit 
for  a  plantation."  Still  no  report  ;  but  three  months  later,  2  Novem- 
ber, the  Court  makes.  a  large  grant  of  land  which  fell  within  the 
bounds  and  bore  important  relations  to  the  settlement  of  Shawsbin. 
"The  Deput}-,  M'  Dudley,  hath  a  thousand  acres  granted  him 
wheare  it  ma}'  not  piudice  an}'  plantation  granted,  nor  any  plantation 
to  bee  granted  w"'out  limiting  to  time  of  irapv'."  "The  Goveruo'^ 
M*^  John  AVinthrope,  Senior,  hath  graunted  him  a  thousand  acres 
of  land  upon  the  same  tearms  as  M""  Dudley  hath  his."  This 
grant  was  enlarged  and  located  1638,  May  '201,  as  follows  :  — 
"It  was  ordered  by  this  p'sent  Coart  that  John  Winthrope, 
Esq'',  the  p''sent  Governo"",  shall  have  1200  acres  of  land  whereof 
1000  was  formerly  granted  him,  &  Thomas  Dudley,  Esq',  the 
Deputy  Governo%  his  1000  acres  granted  to  him  by  a  former  Courte, 
I  Winthrop  Papers  In  Massachusetts  Historical  Society  Collections.     Fourth  Series. 
Volume  6,  page  121. 
 - 23 - 
4  FIISTOHY    OF    BILLEKICA. 
])otli  ot  tln'in  nhoiit  (I  miU'S  from  Concord,  northwards;  the  said 
Govenio''  to  have  his  1200  acres  on  the  sontherly  side  of  two  great 
stones  standing  neare  together,  close  by  the  ryver-side  that  comes 
fro  Concord,  &  the  Deputie  Governo'  to  have  his  thousand  acres  on 
the  northerly  side  of  the  said  two  great  stones  (yv"^  stones  were 
lately  named  the  Two  Brothers)  .  The  Deputie  Governo'  is  to  run  a 
line  easterly  from  the  said  stones  so  that  hee  may  take  in  a  meadowe 
on  the  other  side  of  a  hill,  &  so  to  extend  his  thousand  acres  as  fan- 
northerly  as  hee  will,  &  as  the  thousand  acres  will  heare,  &  the 
Governo'  to  io^'UJ  in  the  said  line  runing  Easterh',  &  to  extend  his 
lot  as  farr  Southerly  as  his  twelve  hundred  acres  Avill  beare,  w"^'' 
2200  acres  are  by  this  Court  established  to  the  said  p''ties,  gener- 
ally-,  «&  
their  severall  heires." 
Governor  Winthrop  has  left  us  in  his  journal'  an  account  of  the 
location  of  these  farms,  too  graphic  to  be  omitted.  These  two 
eminent  men  came  up  to  view  the  proposed. location  from  Concord, 
and  "going  down  the  river  about  four  miles,  they  made  choice  of  a 
place  for  one  thousand  acres  for  each  of  them.  They  offered  each 
other  the  lirst  choice,  but  because  the  deputy's  was  first  granted, 
and  himself  had  store  of  land  alread},  the  governor  yielded  him 
the  first  choice.  So,  at  the  place  where  the  deputy's  land  was  to 
begin  there  were  two  great  stones  which  they  called  the  Two 
Brothers  in  remembrance  that  the}'  were  brothers  by  their  children's 
marriage,  and  did  so  brotherl}-  agree,  and  for  that  a  little  creek  near 
those  stones  was  to  part  their  lands.  At  the  Court  in  the  4th  month 
after,  two  hundred  acres  were  added  to  the  governor's  part."  This 
sentence  fixes  the  date  of  this  memorable  visit,  in  January,  1 03 7-8. 
The  Two  Brothers  were  better  landmarks  than  the  'trees'  so  often 
used  in  designating  boundaries,  and  still  lie  on  the  East  bank  of  the 
Concord  river,  a  short  distance  South  of  the  Bedford  line.  They 
must  be  the  earliest  landmark  in  Billerica.^  A  3'ear  later  (1039, 
June  0)  the  Court  "granted  to  John  Winthrope,  Esq.,  the  p'sent 
(iovernor,  a  p'cell  of  meadow  containing  about  sixetie  acres,  more 
or  lesse,  by  estimation,  l^'ing  within  a  mile  or  two  of  his  farme, 
beneath  Concord,  towards  the  Southeast  of  the  said  farme,  to  have 
to  him  &  his  heirs,  p' vided  that  it  lye  not  w"'in  the  bounds  of  anj- 
towne  formerly  granted."  Mr.  Dudley's  farm  was  also  increased  to 
1500  acres  by  the  addition  of  his  share  of  a  grant  to  Roxbury. 
This  was  400  acres  which  were  "made"  500  by  the  Court. 
-  Winthroji's  Journal,  Volume  1,  page  2iyi. 
»  
In  the  early  part  of  this  history,  until  the  period  of  separation  of  Bedford,  Tewksbury 
and  Carlisle,  I  use  the  name  as  the  fathers  did,  including  the  ancient  hounds  of  the  town. 
 - 24 - 
EARLY    GRANTS     SHAW>HIN.  O 
Soou  after,  the  Court  granted  lands  on  the  west  side  of  Concord 
river.  "ICaO.  Nov.  o.  the  Court  granted  Increase  Nowell  his  500 
acres  "  [granted  in  June]  •'  on  the  north  side  of  the  bounds  of  Concord, 
beyond  the  rvver,  over  again.st  the  Governo'*  1200  acres  ioyning 
to  the  bounds  of  Concord.  Mi-.  Thorn  :  Allen  is  gi-anted  his  500 
acres  "to  ioyne  to  Increase  Xowell  on  the  north  side  of  the  said 
Increase  Xowell,  his  grant."  Mr.  Xowell  was  a  prominent  citizen 
of  Charlestown  and  secretary  of  the  colony  ;  and  Mr.  Allen  was  the 
'teacher'  of  the  church  in  Charlestown.  Then  follows  a  grant, 
made  at  the  same  time,  June.  lOoO.  but  not  located  till  October. 
1(34(».  which  came  within  the  bounds  of  Billerica.  ••M'^  Thom  : 
AVelde.  pasto'  of  Roxbury.  is  gi'auted  533  acres  next  to  Mr.  Thom  : 
Allen,  teacher  of  Charles  Towue.  beyond  Concord  Ryver,  w''of  200 
was  granted  by  the  country.  &  the  other  333  is  p""!  of  the  4000  acres 
granted  to  Roxberry."  This  farm  occupied  the  south  part  of 
Billerica.  west  of  Concord  River,  and  was  afterwards  bought  by 
the  town. 
One  other  and  still  larger  grant  remains  to  be  mentioned.  1640, 
May  13,  ••  
There  is  3000  acres  of  land  granted  to  Mrs.  AVinthrope, 
the  wife  of  Mr.  John  Wiuthrope,  our  late  Goveruo"".  to  bee  at  her 
disposeing.  for  her  and  her  sonns,  where  they  shall  desu-e  it.  w'^'out 
piudice  to  any  former  grant."  And  1641,  Dec.  10.  "Mrs.  Maro-' 
Winthrope  hath  her  3000  acres  of  land,  formerly  granted  her.  to  bee 
assigned  about  the  lower  end  of  Concord  Ryver.  near  Merrimack, 
to  bee  layde  out  by  Mr.  Flint  &  Leift.  Willard.  w"^  ^^r.  Oliver 
or  some  other  skilful  in  mea=iuring.  so  as  it  may  not  hinder  a 
plantation.  &  any  p"t  thereof  they  may  pnrchase  of  any  Indians  that 
have  right  to  it."  This  grant  was  between  the  Merrimack  and  the 
Concord,  on  the  east  side  of  the  latter,  and  was  subsequentiv 
laid  out  by  Jonathan  Danforth,  "in  a  true  circle."  including  a 
part  of  Lowell  and  the  adjacent  section  of  Tewksbury. 
With  1640.  a  new  force  was  turned  into  the  currcut  setting 
towards  the  settlement  of  Shawshin.  To  appreciate  its  significance 
we  need  to  recall  certain  facts  in  the  general  condition  of  the  colony. 
This  was  a  time  of  hardship  and  financial  embarrassment.  The 
meeting  of  the  Long  Parliament.'  and  the  increasing  power  of  the 
Puritans  in  England,  had  checked  the  emigration  to  Xew  England, 
and  the  Pequot  war  had  taxed  the  new  settlements.  The  financial 
difficulties  of  many  of  the  colonists  were  serious,  and  Mr.  Shepard 
and  the  Cambridge  people  were  particularly  involved.  As  a 
measure  of  relief  they  seriousl}'  considered  the  question  of  follow- 
 - 25 - 
G  IIISTOHV    OF    lULLEHlCA. 
iiiu;  .Ml-,  llooki'i-  and  his  coinijauv,  whose  houses  and  lands  they 
had  l»(tu<>lit  in  ('anil)iid,<>e,  and  joining  them  in  Connecticut. 
JNIr.  Shepard  iiad  married  the  daughter  of  Mr.  Hooker,  who 
strongly   urged  the  removal  of  liis  son-in-law.' 
The  authorities  of  Massachusetts  naturally  deprecated  a  second 
disrui)tion  of  Camliridge.  Its  influence  on  the  colony  and  the  infant 
college  would  h:'  disastrous.  And  they  strengthened  their  argu- 
ments with  Mr.  Shepard  and  his  church  by  the  proposal  to  enlarge 
their  bounds  nearer  home.  On  the  same  da}',  1640,  Oct.  7,  when 
Charlestovvn  received  a  grant  four  miles  square,  which  was  the  germ, 
of  Woburn,  the  Court  took  the  following  action:  — 
"The  town  of  Cambridge  is  granted  a  month  to  consider  of 
Shawshin  for  a  village  for  them,  &  if  they  like  it  not,  the  town  of 
Roxberry  hathe  liberty  to  consider  of  it  for  a  village  for  them 
till  the  nexte  Crene'all  Courte."  The  result  was,  1641,  June  2: 
"Shawshin  is  granted  to  Cambridge,  p''vided  the}-  make  it  a  village,, 
to  have  10  families  there  setled  Av"'in  three  3'ears  ;  otherwise  the 
Court  to  disj)ose  of  it." 
But  the  time  was  not  ripe,  and  Cambridge  was  not  ready  to 
grapple  with  the  difficulties  of  a  new  settlement  so  far  in  the 
wilderness.  The  General  Court,  however,  at  last  secures  a  report 
descriptive  of  Shawshin  ;  but  it  was  so  far  unfavorable,  that  whether 
intentionally  or  not,  it  must  have  discouraged  the  hopes  of  such  as 
contemi)lated  a  settlement.  This  report  bears  date  1642,  June  14, 
as  follows  : — 
'•A\'ee.  whose  names  are  underwritten,  being  appointed  to  viewe  Shaw- 
shin, &  
to  take  notice  of  what  fitness  it  was  for  a  village,  &  accordingly  to 
o""  apprehpntion'5  make  returne  to  the  Co't;  wee  therefore  manifest  thus 
nuich  :  that  f(jr  the  quantity  it  is  sufficient,  but  for  the  quality  in  o'' 
app''liensions  no  way  fit.  the  ujiland  being  very  barren  &  very  little  medow 
there  about,  nor  any  good  timber  almost  fit  for  any  use.  Wee  went  after 
wee  came  to  Shawshin  house,  by  estimation,  some  14  or  16  miles  at  th? 
least,  in  compass  ;  fro'"  Shawshin  house  wee  began  to  go  downe  the  ryver 
4  or  5  miles  near  East  ;  then  wee  left  that  point  &  went  neere  upon  north, 
came  to  Concord  liy vej-.  a  little  belowe  the  falls,  about  one  mile  or  neare  ; 
then  wee  went  up  the  ryver  some  5  miles  untill  w.ee  came  to  a  place  called 
the  Two  Brethren  ;  and  fro'"  thence  it  is  about  two  miles  &  i  to  Shawshin, 
&  the  most  p'  of  all  the  good  land  is  given  out  already  ;  more  land  there  is 
at  the  south  side  of  the  house,  between  the  side  of  Concord  line  &  the 
lieade  of  Cambridge  line,  but  littell  medow.  &  the  upland  of  little  worth  ; 
&  this  is  what  we  can  sav  hearin.'' 
"SYMON   WILLAKD. 
      "EDWD   CONVERS." 
*S«e  hli  letter  to  Shepard  In  History  0/  Cambridge,  page  46. 
 - 26 - 
EARLY    GRANTS     SHAWSHIX.  7 
The  signers  of  this  report  were  prominent  citizens  of  Concord 
and  Woburn,  and  neighbors  are  not  always  best  friends.  "We  need 
not  doubt  the  intention  of  these  gentlemen  to  do  justice  to  Shawshin, 
if  we  do  suspect  that  they  were  unconsciously  influenced  b}*  the 
thought  that  some  advantage  and  possible  enlargement  might  come 
to  their  own  towns,  if  Shawshin  were  not  occupied  as  a  distinct 
settlement.  The  ''Shawshin  house,"  wh^re  their  route  begins,  must 
have  been  on  the  Shawshin  river,  in  Bedford,  at  the  place  where 
Vine  brojk,  ''the  riveret  from  Woburne,"  empties  into  it.  Going 
down  the  river  about  to  the  present  line  of  t!ie  railroad,  they  ma}- 
have  followed  that  line  to  North  Billerica.  Thence  to  the  Two 
Brothers,  and  across  Bedford  to  the  starting  point,  would  make 
about  the  distance  estimated  ;  and  if  they  did  not  leave  this  route, 
they  saw  little  of  the  better  portions  of  Shawshin.  I'his  Shawshin 
house  was  the  first  building  in  the  town.  B\-  whom  it  v,'as  built,  or 
for  what  purpose,  or  how  .long  it  remained,  we  know  not.  If 
Mrs.  AVinthrop  availed  herself  of  the  leave  granted  b}'  the  Court  the 
previous  October,  "to  build  a  house  &  a  hog  or  goate  pen  by  the 
lower  part  of  Concord  Ryver,"  this  ma\'  have  been  the  second 
civilized  structure  in  Shawshin. 
After  receiving  this  report,  the  General  Court  at  the  same  session 
renewed  the  grant  to  Cambridge,  giving  Shawshin  for  the  first  time 
specific  bounds.  '-All  the  land  lying  upon  Shaweshin  Ryver,  & 
between  that  &  Concord  Ryver,  &  between  that  &  Merrimack 
Ryver,  not  formerly  granted  b}'  this  Co't,  are  granted  to  Cambrido-e, 
so  as  they  erect  a  village  there  w"'in  o  yeares  &  so  as  it  shall  not 
extend  to  preiudice  Charlcstowne  village  or  the  village. of  Cochitawit, 
nor  the  farms  formerly  granted  to  the  now  Gove''uor  of  1260  ae''s,  to 
Thorn:  Dudley,  Esq.,  1500  ac's,  &  301)0  ac'"s  to  Mrs.  Wiuthrope  ; 
&  Mr.  Flint  &  Mr.  Stephen  Winthrope  are  to  set  out  their  heade 
line  towards  Concord."  Remembering  that  Cochitawit  was  Andover, 
and  Charlestown  Village,  Woburn,  the  terms  of  this  grant  are  very 
clear.  Mr.  Flint  and  Mr.  Stephen  Winthrop  were  survevors,  and 
are  instructed  to  make  the  line  of  Concord  the  South- West  bound? 
as  it  was  in  fact,  of  the  Winthrop  farm.  The  time  within  which  the 
settlement  must  be  effected  is,  b}'  this  grant,  extended  from  1G4J:  to 
164:7.  The  difficulty  of  the  undertaking,  however,  seams  to  have 
made  it  doubtful  whether  Cambridge  could  fulfil  the  conditions,  even 
in  the  extended  time,  and  inducements  to  remove  to  Connecticut 
CDutinuiug  to  influence  her  leading  citizens,  the  Court  again  modified 
 - 27 - 
8  HISTOKY    OF    HILLEKICA. 
the  terms  of  tlu^  grant,  in  order  to  hold  Cambridge  to  the  Shawshin 
enteri)rise. 
i'   l(;.l;3_4,  March  7,  Shaweshin  is  granted  to  Cambridge,  w^'out 
any  condition  of  making  a  viUage  there,  &  the  laud  between  them 
&  Concord  is  granted  them,  all  save  what  is  formerl}-  granted  to  the 
military  company  or  othei-s,  p'vided  the'  church  &  p'"sent  elders  con- 
tinue at  Cambridge."  The  proviso  shows  distinctly  that  these 
grants,  with  tlieir  increasing  inducements,  were  designed  to  prevent 
the  removal  of  Mr.  Shepard  and  liis  friends.  And  the  polic}-  was 
successful.  They  remained  in  Cambridge,  and  some  of  them 
became  early  inliabitants  of  Shawshin.  It  is  hardly  too  nuich  to 
suppose  that  this  Shawshin  grant  prevented  a  second  disruption 
of  the  mother  town. 
Cambridge  could  now  proceed  at  her  convenience  in  the  settle- 
ment of  Shawshin,  without  fear  of  losing  the  grant,  and  she  made 
haste  slowly.  The  only  allusion  found  for  four  years  to  the  place 
comes  incidentally  from  AVoIxn-n.  1G44,  May  9,  the  Court  "ordered 
that  the  ryver  at  Shawshin  shalbe  called  b}-  the  name  of  Shawshin 
Ryver,  not  only  belowe,  but  a'lso  above  the  riveret  w'^''  falls  into 
said  ryver  in  AVooburne  bounds  above  halfe  a  mile  from  Cambridge 
line."  The  interest  of  the  Court  in  this  name  of  the  river  was  not 
purely  geographical.  The  western  bound  of  Woburn  was  contin- 
gent upon  it.  In  the  original  grant  of  "Charles  Towne  village,"  the 
Court  says  "they  shall  not  crosse  Cambridge  line  nor  come  w"Hn  a 
mile  of  Shaweshin  Ryver."  Vine  brook,  as  it  is  now  known,  runs 
westerly  from  Burlington,  then  a  part  of  Woburn,  and  crosses  the 
line  "above  half  a  mile  from  Cambridge,"  now  Lexington.  If  the 
Shawshin  could  be  held  to  begin  at  the  point  where  this  riveret 
comes  in,  the  western  bound  of  Woburn  might  legally  have  been 
extended  above,  so  far  even  as  to  meet  Concord.  But  if  the  river 
were  the  Shawshin  from  its  rise  in  Lincoln,  the  bound  of  Woburn 
was  limited  accordingly.  A  petition,  therefore,  was  presented  from 
Woburn,  signed  b}-  Edward  Johnson,  Edward  Converse  and  John 
Mousall.  "  Humbly  Beeseaching  this  Honored  Corte  to  give  direction 
for  sending  in  a  cleere  way.  About  the  laying  oute  the  Bounds  of  the 
s'^  towne  next  Shawshin  River  ;  first,  whether  it  be  mente  wee  shall 
keepe  one  mile  fro  the  place  called  Shawshin,  from  whence  wee 
conceave  the  River  hath  its  Denomination,  or  whether  wee  must 
keep  one  Mile  From  any  of  the  Riverets  ;  "ind,  AVhether  wee  must 
wave  our  bounds  out  &  in  as  the  River  doth   (Being  Straightened 
 - 28 - 
EARLY    GRANTS     8HAWSHIN.  9 
Beyond  Exi)ectations  by  Liu  Village  one  the  other  side) .  Would 
ucrt  Willingly  delude  ourselves  with  vayue  Hopes  Againe,  But  if  it 
prove  we  Are  Straightened  by  Shawshiu  River,  likewise,  wee  may 
Indevor  the  gaineing  (if  it  Be  possible)  some  Handicraftsmen  unto 
us,  that  the  Blessed  ordinances  of  God  may  Be  upheld,  the  Lord 
helping  in  the  use  of  means,"  etc.  But  the  Court  guarded  the 
interests  of  Cambridge  and  .Shawshiu,  and  answered  Woburu  in  the 
action  given  above. 
The  policy  of  "gaining  some  handicraftsmen"  was,  however, 
fairly  successful  in  our  sister  town.  The}'  have  been  able,  in  spite 
of  this  defeat  of  their  hopes,  to  maintain  "the  Blessed  ordinances 
of  God,"  and  to  give  portions  to  three  thrifty  daughters,  even  from 
their  contracted  bounds. 
The  earliest  action  of  Cambridge  for  the  settlement  of  Shawshin, 
of  which  the  record  has  been  preserved,  was  taken,  1648,  April  9.* 
'•It  was  agreed  at  a  general  meeting,  when  the  whole  town  had  special 
warning  to  meet  for  the  disposing  of  Shawshine,  that  there  should  be  a 
farm  laid  out  of  a  thousand  acres,  to  be  for  a  public  stock,  and  improved 
for  the  good  of  the  church,  &  that  part  of  the  chuix'h  that  here  shall 
continue  ;  and  everj'  person  or  persons  that  shall  from  time  to  time  remove 
from  tlie  church,  do  hereby  resign  up  their  interest  therein  to  the  I'emaining 
part  of  the  church  of  Cambridge.  This  thousand  acres  of  land,  given  to 
the  use  aforesaid,  shall  be  laid  out,  either  all  together  or  else  severally, 
part  in  one  place  &  part  elsewhere,  according  to  the  discretion  of  the  men 
that  are  appointed  to  lay  out  the  land." 
"Also,  there  were  granted  to  several  brethren  that  had  no  house-right 
in  the  town,  if  they  did  desire  it,  farms  at  Shawshin,"  ''Imprimis: 
Capt.  Googine  a  farm,  if  he  buy  a  house  in  the  town;  also  to  Bro.  Edward 
Oaks,.  Tho.  Oakes.  and  Eichard  Hildreth.  each  of  them  a  farm  for  their 
encouragement,  if  they  see  it  may  make  for  their  support  and  desire  it. 
Further,  it  is  granted  to  Mi-.  Henrj^  Duuster  and  Edward  Collins.  Hberty 
to  have  their  small  farms  at  Shawshine,  and.  to  be  considered  in  their 
quantity  more  than  others  in  regard  of  their  work  ond  place." 
1649,  April,  one  year  later,  the  town  "Agreed  that  Mr.  Hemy 
Dunster,  President  of  Harvard  College,  should  have  500  acres 
whereof  four  hundred  is  granted  by  the  town  to  his  own  person  and 
heirs,  to  enjo}'  freel}',  forever,  and  the  other  100  acres,  for  the  use 
of  Harvard  College.  Item,  unto  Mr.  Daniel  Googine,  500  acres. 
Item,  unto  Mr.  Edward  Collins,  in  lieu  of  his  small  farm  within  the 
town  bounds,  with  some  addition  in  respect  of  his  place  in  the 
Deacon's  office,  it  was  agreed  that  he  should  have'  500  acres." 
6  History  of  Cambridge,  page  57. 
 - 29 - 
10  HISTOHY    OF    BILLEKICA. 
The  next  movi'iiu'iit  on  record  preparatory  to  the  occupancy  of 
Shawshin  was  in  in:)!.  Governor  Dudley,  whose  farm  of  1500  acres 
embrac?d  an  attractive  part  of  the  town,  petitions  the  Court,  Oct.  15, 
for  a  d;Minition  of  his  river  hound.  Aftar  statement  of  the  grant,  he 
says  :  ''but  is  not  expr3ss2d  how  far  th3  said  1500  acres  should  go 
along  bv  the  ryver-side  (although  the  said  Thomas  Dudley  took  it 
for  granted,  &  yet  does,  that  he  might  goe  as  farr  by  the  ryver  side 
as  he  would)  yet  to  make  it  certain,  &  that  no  difference  or  questions 
may  arise  in  times  to  come,  the  said  petitiouor  does  now  intreat  of 
this  honored  Court  that  it  may  be  recorded  that  the  1500  acres  so 
granted  unto  him  may  be  laid  out  two  myles  &  a  halfe      along  by 
the  ryver  side,  and  so  that  he  may  make  upp  for  1500  acres  from 
the  ryver  side  to  the  land  ward,  ifor  which  he  shall  render  due 
thanks,"  etc.  He  received  favoral)le  answer,  and  the  way  was  thus 
prepared  for  the  sale  of  his  grant.  This  took  place  28  Feb.,  1G51-2, 
to  three  citizens  of  Woburn,  Thomas  Charaberline,  James  Parker, 
and  Isaac  Learned.  This  was  the  earliest  sale  and  one  of  the 
largest  which  was  ever  made  of  land"  in  Billerica,  and  for  these 
reasons,  as  well  as  for  illustration  of  the  methods  of  exchange  of 
that  daA',   I   quote   its  provisions  at  some  length. 
'•This  witnesseth  that  VAhereas,  by  several  grants  of  divers  General 
Courts,  there  is  conveyed  to  Thomas  Dudley,  the  Deputy  Governor.  &  his 
hoyres.  1500  acres  of  laud,  lying  &  being  about  6  miles  northerly  from 
Concord.  *  *  Now,  the  said  Thomas  Dudley,  for  &  in  consideration  of 
one  hundred  &  ten  pounds  of  lawful  money,  to  be  payed  unto  him  *  * 
b}'  Thomas  Chamberline.  Isack?  Ijearnsd,  and  James  Parker,  all  of 
Woburne,  in  Xew  England,  in  such  goods  &  at  such  times  as  hereafter 
hoercin  appeareth.  ba;b  granted  *  *  all  the  right  *  *  which  he,  the 
said  Thomas  Dudley,  or  his  hsja-es,  hath  therein,  by  virtue  of  tb?  said 
grants  of  the  general  Courts,  or  by  any  purchase  from  any  Indian  *  * 
together  with  all  woodes,  tr.ees,  waters,  fishings.  &  other  appurtenances  to 
th3  same  belonging.  To  have  and  to  hold  *  *  Provided  always,  that  if 
the  said  *  *  shall  not  well  &  truly  pay  *  *  the  summe  of  fifty  &  five 
pounds  of  lawful  money,  oxen,  steers,  cowes.  heifers,  or  calves,  sound  & 
good  cattle,  none  of  them  to  be  above  six  years  old,  at  his  now  dwelling- 
house  in  Poxburv.  in  New  Enghmd.  upon  the  eight  &  twentieth  day  of 
Aprill  which  shall  be  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  1053;  &  the  like  suuune  of  55 
pounds,  in  like  cattailo  or  in  corne  at  the  place  aforesaid,  in  such  kind  of 
corn?  as  hereafter  foUoweth  :  that  is  to  saj',  Twenty  pounds  thereof  in 
Wheate,  &  five  &  thirty  pounds  thereof  in  Rye,  pease,  or  Indian  corne,  of 
each  a  like  equal  quantity,  all  good  and  clean  dressed,  upon  the  eight  & 
twentieth  day  of  Aprill,  which  sliall  be  in  *  1G54;  the  said  cattle  &  corne 
to  be  valued  at  the  several  times  of  deliverance  thereof  by  one  man  chosen 
 - 30 - 
EARLY  GRANTS     SHAWSHIN.  11 
by  said  Thomas  Dudley,  and  another  man  chosen  by  the  [purchasers]  ; 
and  if  these  two  cannot  agree,  then  by  a  third  man  to  be  chosen  l)y  those 
two.  And  it  is  agreed,  that  if  the  [purchasers]  shall  pay  any  part  of  the 
last  pajnnenc  in  c  jrna.  they  shall  give  3  months  warning  in  writing  *  * 
how  much  they  will  so  pay  in  corne,  &  if  they  shall  pa,v  but  part  of  the 
last  payment  in  corne,  then  it  shall  be  proportioned  according  to  the  kinds 
of  corne  before  expressed." 
Governor  Dudley's  signature  to  this  deed  is  witnessed  b}'  Thomas 
Dudley,  Jr.,  Tobias  Davis,  and  John  Remkens,  and  the  agreement 
is  added  ' ■   
that  what  oxen  shall  be  payed,  may  be  seven  years  old 
and  no  more."  The  deed  was  recorded  b^-  Thomas  Danforth, 
19  Sept.,  1G56 
These  three  men.  who  purchased  so  large  an  interest  in  Shawshin, 
all  became  citizens  of  Chelmsford,  wliich  was  receiving  its  earl}' 
settlers  at  the  same  time.  But  James  Parker  resided  here  three  or 
four  years,  and  John  Stearns,  whose  name  is  so  prominent  in  our 
history,  was  the  brother  of  Isaac  Learned's  wife,  Mary.  William 
Chamberline,  who  settled  in  Shawshin,  was  probably  a  relative 
of  Thomas  ;  and  George  Farley,  Henry  Jefts,  and  the  Hills  were 
their  neighbors  in  Woburn,  and  purchased  of  them  parts  of  the 
Dudley  farm. 
Cambridge  also  soon  began  to  take  more  eft'ective  measures. 
There  had  been,  doubtless,  debates  going  on  how  the  settlement 
might  be  effected  with  some  profit  to  those  citizens  of  Cambridge 
who  had  no  intention  of  removing  to  Shawshin.  But  the  problem 
was  not  eas\'  of  solution.  The  clearing  and  occupancy  of  the  wilder- 
ness was  felt  to  entitle  the  pioneers  to  the  full  benefit  of  their  toil 
and  sacrifice,  and  immigrants  could  not  be  induced  to  make  their 
homes  here  and  subject  themselves  to  an\'  considerable  tribute  to 
Cambridge. 
Some  things  indicate,  also,  that  the  question  whether  the  benefit 
of  the  grant  of  Shawshin  was  to  a  crue  to  the  church  or  the  town 
of  Cambridge  created  embarrassment.  Town  and  church  were  in 
those  days  so  nearly  identical  that  it  was  not  always  easy  to  draw 
the  line,  and  sometimes  it  was  left  obscure.  While  the  grant  of 
Shawshin  is  not  specifically  to  the  church,  but  simply  to  Cambridge, 
the  language  does  imply  that  the  General  Court  had  the  church  in 
view  in  making  it.  And  although  the  action,  making  grants  in  1G48 
and  1649,  had  been  by  the  town,  it  appears  from  the  next  quotation 
that   the    Shawshin   grant   was   really   held    by  the  church.     1G52, 
 - 31 - 
12         .  IlISTOKV    OF    MILLEiaCA. 
.hine  !)  (four  months  alter  Diidloy  had  sold  his  fann)  "it  was  agreed 
by  the  ehnrch  that  Shawshiue  should  be  divided  as  foUoweth  : — 
"'J'o  Mr.  Michcll.  live  ImiKhed  acres.  To  Edw.  Okes,  three  hundred 
aeros.    To  Thomas  Okes.  on?  Imudred  and  fiftj^  acres. 
"It  Avas  a""rocd  that  these  thres  above  named  should  have  their  lots 
laid  out  by  a  committee  with  as  littJ!'  prejudice  to  any  lot  as  may  be,  and 
so  not  to  draw  any  lot. 
"Also,  the  Church  d  ith  agree,  that  although  the  land  be,  by  grant  of 
the  General  Court,  jjeculiar  to  the  rimrch  only,  yet  the  whole  town.  viz.  : 
such  as  are  owners  of  liouse  and  lanil  in  tlie  town,  shall  come  into  the 
division  thereof. 
'•Also,  it  is  agrei'd.  that  every  man  shall  have  a  proportion  f)f  land, 
more  or  less,  according  to  the  proportion  now  allotted  him. 
'"Also,  that  every  man  shall  have  a  part  of  the  meadow  in  pi'oportion 
with  his  upland;  to  l)e  laid  out  after  th?  same  rule  that  the  upland  is,  both 
by  lot  and  quantity. 
"Also,  it  is  agreed,  that,  after  the  farms  formerh'  granted  are  laid  out. 
the  remainder  of  the  land  shall  be  divided  into  three  breadths,  viz.  :  t\A  o 
of  the  said  breadths  to  lie  between  the  rivers,  and  the  third  on  this 
side  Shawshine  Kiver.  The  first  lot  to  begin  upon  a  line  continued  over 
Shawshine  River,  the  same  that  is  between  Woburn'  and  us,  running 
towards  Concord,  until  it  meet  with  Mr.  AVinfrop's  farm;  and  so  the  said 
first  lot  to  butt  South  upon  that  line  &  on  Shawshine  River  and  Mr.  AVin- 
trop's  farm  ;  
and  so  each  lot  to  proiieed  one  after  another,  by  due  parallels, 
until  they  come  clear  of  the  farms  already  laid  out.  and  then  to  extend  in 
two  divisions  between  the  Rivers,  and  a  third  division  on  the  east  side 
Shawshine  River;  and  so  every  man's  lot  to  follow  one  another,  taking  all 
the  three  breadths  at  once,  the  nearest  laud  to  the  first  center  being  still 
always  the  next  lot  in  order. 
"The  nuuiber  of  ev(^ry  man's  lot  &  quantitj-  of  acres  is  as  followeth 
on  the  other  side." 
Here  follows  a  list  of  113  names'  regularly  numbered,  and  two 
others  appended,  of  persons  to  whom  grants  varying  from  10  to  450 
acres  were  made  in  Shawshin,  amounting  to  a  total  of  9800  acres. 
Add  th3  2450  acres  above  mentioned,  granted  specially'  to  six 
leading  citizens,  and  the  whole  numV)er  of  acres  granted  b.. 
Cambridge  to  individuals  reaches  12,250.  Most  of  these  grants 
were  never  located,  but  were  sold  to  Billerica,  as  wdll  subsequentl}' 
appear.  For  convenience  of  reference  and  comparison  with  the 
later  list  in  the  deed  of  sale,  I  give  these  names,  recast  alphabeti- 
cally, with  memoranda  added  as  to  the  disposition  of'the  rights. 
 - 32 - 
EARLY    GRANTS     SIIAM'SHIN. 
13 
I  also  insert,  without  numbers,  the  six  names  of  other  citizens 
who  had  large  grants  in  JShawshin,  but  were  not  included  in  the  dis- 
tribution by  
lot.  The  figures  at  the  left  of  the  names  give  the  num- 
ber of  acres.  The  original  list  may  be  found  in  the  History  of 
Cambridge,  pp.  58-9.  The  original  spelling  is  preserved,  except 
that  the  initial  'ff,'  often  used,  gives  place  to  the  capital  'F.' 
LIST    or    CAMBRIDGE    GRANTEES. 
96.      Arrington.     See  Erringtoii.]            38.      Cracbone,  Gilbert. 
90 
95. 
103.      Andrews.  Mr.  [Samuel."   150             10.      Cutter.  Eichard.                     80 
Angler.  Mr.  [Edmund.]    300            97.      Cutter,  WMdd. 
40 
15.      Banbvieke,  Widow. 
40 
102.      Dana.  Eich.                              20 
105.      Bancroft,  Eog'.                    100            32.      Danforth,  Tho.                     220 
77.      Beal.  Tho.                              100            51.      Day,  Steven. 
50* 
62.      Bek'her.  And.                         50            56. 
Dixon.  AVill'".                                  80 
42.      Betts,  John.                             90           104.      Druse,  Vineet. 
15* 
12.      Blogget.  DanielL                   40                       Dunster,  Henry.                  500 
8.     Boman,  Mr. 
20* 
92.      Ecles.  Eichard. 
41.      Bordman,  W'".                           00             96.      Eirington,  Abra.                    70 
75.      Boutell,  John.                                                                                                    70 
20 
27.      Fiske,  David. 
60* 
88.      Bower,  Ben.                             20             46.      Fownell,  John.                     100 
7.     Bradshew,  Humphrey. 
15 
6.      Fox.  Thomas. 
80 
76.      Bridge.  John.                        250            33.      Frances.  Rich.                          60 
111. 
Bridge,  Matt". 
80 
45. 
French,  John's  children.     30 
108.      Bridge,  Tho. 
50* 
19.      French,  Eichard. 
89.      Briggam.  Tho^.                      180             24.      French.  Lt.  William.             20 
150 
113.      Brodish,  Eobert. 
30* 
59.      Frost,  Mr.  Edmund. 
200* 
74.^     Browne.  Robert.                    40            52.      Gibson,  Jolm. 
80 
5.     Bucke.  Eoger.                        10             53.      Goffe.  Edw. 
450* 
91.      Bucke,  Win.                          20                        Gookin.  Daniel.                      500 
4.     Bull,  AVilliam.                           15             18.      Greene,  Nath.  &  Mother     80 
109.      Bush,  Ranold. 
10* 
73.      Greene.  Sam". 
80 
101.      Cane,  Christopher.                80            36. 
Hall,  Ed^. 
70 
83.      Champnis,  Elder.                 350            60.      Hall,  John. 
20 
1.      Cheaver,  Daniell.                    20            14.      Hall,  Th.                                     20 
58.      Chesholme,  Tho. 
100* 
71. 
Hamlet.  AVill. 
60* 
80.     Clearke,  Jonas. 
60             50.      Hammond,  Goodm. 
2.     Cleraniance.  AVilliam,  Seii.  30            28.      Hancocke,  Wid.                      15 
10 
9.     Clemmance,  William. 
30* 
69.      HassuU.  Eichard. 
Collins,  Edward.                500            81.      Hasteings,  John.                    60 
80 
99.      Cooke,  Josseph.                   300            26.      Hide,  Jonathan.                     20 
64.      Cooke,  Phil.                                80            47. 
Hides,  Sam". 
80 
106.      Cooper.  John.                       140            13.      Holmes,  Eobert. 
150 
30.      Corlet,  Mr.  Elijath.               100             17.      Homan,  AVilliam. 
50 
 - 33 - 
u                     HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
16. 
55. 
94. 
3. 
11. 
54. 
GS. 
48. 
61. 
25. 
98. 
65. 
112. 
37. 
35. 
78. 
34. 
67. 
87. 
82. 
110. 
[28.] 
Jacson,  John.  50 
Jaoson.  m.  200 
Jacson,  Mv.  400* 
Konipster.  Daniell.  80 
I^onghorne,  Thomas.  60 
Man.  William.  70 
Manning,  Will'".  60 
Man-ct,  Tho.  200 
Michell,  Mr.  500 
MiclK'lson,  Edw;  150* 
Miller,  Joseph.  15* 
Moore,  Fr.,  sen"".  50 
Moore,  Fr.,  junior.  50 
Moore,  Golden.  100* 
Cakes,  Edward.  300 
Oakes,  Thomas.  150 
Oldam,  Ei:  60 
Padlefoote,  Jonath.  15 
Parke.  Richard.  100 
Parker.  John.  10* 
Parker,  Robert.  60 
Patten,  William.  90 
Prentise,  Henry.  80 
Prentise,  Tho.  150* 
Kobbins,  Richard.  90 
86.  Russell,  Will'".  60 
90.  Russell,  John.  SO* 
107.  Shepard,  Edw.  80 
43.  Shepard,  John.  60 
66.  Sill,  Widd.  •  40 
93.  Simes,  Mrs.  Sarah.  50 
84.  Sparhauke,  Nath.  140 
85.  Stedman,  John.  300* 
39.  Stedman,  Robert.  90* 
29.  Stevenson,  And.  60 
44.  Stone.  Daniell.  50* 
31.  Stone,  David.  50* 
63.  Swan,  John.  20 
40.  Swoetmau,  Tho.  70 
'2-i.  Taylor,  John.  60 
72.  Towne,  Will™.  70 
20.  Watson,  John.  80 
79.  Whitmore,  Franc.  50 
100.  Wilcocke.  \Y"\  90* 
23.  Wilkerson,  Wid.  .  
60* 
57.  Willowes,  George.  60 
[91.]  Wines,  Daniell.  10* 
49.  Winship,  Edw.  200 
70.  Withe,  Nicho.  90 
21.  Woodes,  Richard.  10* 
All  the  titles  which  are  not  marked  with  a  star  in  this  list  were 
convoyed  to  Billerica  in  the  Great  Deed,  which  will  be  described 
hereafler.  Some  of  the  rights  had  been  sold  to  William  French, 
Golden  More,  and  others,  but  the  larger  number  wei'e  deeded  "by  the 
original  grantee  to  the  town.  Of  those  not  contained  in  the  Great 
Deed,  Mr.  Bowman  sold  his  20  acres  to  Billerica  for  20  shillings; 
Thomas  Bridge's  grant  was  held  b}-  his  son-in-law,  Daniel  Champney  ; 
Robert  Brodish's  80  acres  (not  30,  as  in  Cambridge  list)  was  located 
to  the  heirs  of  Thomas  Danforth  in  1708;  William  Clemance's 
grant  was  laid  out  to  Samuel  Waters  ;  Stephen  Day,  Robert 
Stedman,  David  Stone,  and  the  Widow  Wilkerson  sold  to  Jonathan 
Danforth,  and  he  sold  to  the  town  ;  the  sons  of  Edmund  Frost 
received  each  a  five-acre  right  on  account  of  their  father's  grant  ; 
Edward  Goffe  sold  his  450  acres  to  Billerica,  1673,  Jan.  27,  for 
thirteen  pounds  sterling;  William  Hamlet  occupied  his  own  right; 
Thomas  Prentice's  grant  was  sold  to  Francis  and  John  Wyman,  and 
located  one-half  to  Francis  Wyman  in  1695,  and  the  other  half  to 
 - 34 - 
EARLY  GRAXTS     SHAWSHIX.  15 
Joseph  Walker  in  1684;  John  Russell's  grant  was  laid  out  to 
Ebenezer  Hill,  1703,  May  26  ;  John  Stedman  sold  his  300  acres  to 
Billeriea  in  1678  for  20  pounds,  and  Daniel  Stone's  right  was  held 
by  his  heirs  in  1707.  The  disposition  of  the  following  titles  has  not 
been  traced  :  Ranold  Cush,  Vineet  Druse,  David  Fiske,  Mr.  Jack- 
son, Edward  Michelson,  Josei)h  Miller,  John  Parker,  AYilUam 
Wilcoek,   Daniel  Wines,  and  Richard   Woods. 
Besides  the  farms  of  Collins,  Dunster,  Gookin,  Mitchell,  and 
tlie  brothers  Oakes,  Cambridge  grants  above  9800  acres  to  115 
proprietors.  Of  this  number,  89  titles  were  conve3-ed  to  Billeriea 
b}-  the  Great  Deed  which  covered  7480  acres;  16  others  were 
conveyed  to  Billeriea,  or  located  for  citizens,  and  ten,  as  above,  are 
not  accounted  for,  including  770  acres.  The  grant  of  400  acres 
to  Mr.  Jackson,  forms  the  larger  part  of  this  number. 
In  October,  1652,  Woburn  petitioned  the  Court  for  the  appoint- 
ment of.  a  committee  to  lay  out  the  farms  "nere  Shawshine, 
graunted  to  J""  Winthrope,  Esq..  deceased,  &  to  Thomas  Dudley, 
Elsq.,  Dep*-  Gouv'."  Seven  commissioners  were  appointed.  The 
work  to  be  "donne  before  the  twentv-fowerth  day  of  the  fowei'th 
month  next."  No  report  of  these  commissioners  appears  on  the 
record,  but  the  easterl}'  line  of  the  farms  may  have  been  fixed  by 
their  action.  The  other  bounds  could  not  have  been  then  in 
question.  As  tlie  east  bound  did  not  reach  Shawshin  river,  which 
was  a  mile  west  of  Woburn  limits,  the  neighborl}-  solicitude  of  her 
citizens  in  the  matter  is  interesting  and  perhaps  suggestive. 
This  brings  us  to  the  settlement  of  the  Shawshin  wilderness, 
unless  the  Shawshin  House,  already  mentioned,  but  of  which  we 
know  so  little,  constituted  an  exception.  In  what  year,  at  what 
place,  or  liy  whom  the  settlement  was  begun,  is  not  known.  It  is 
pi-obable  that  Henry  Jefts  was  here  in  1652,  for  his  infant  daughter, 
Hannah,  died  in  the  town  '•3-''  first  weeke"  of  May,  1653;  the 
earliest  event  noted  in  the  Town  Records.  A  j-ear  later,  the  "last 
week,  1th  Month,"  {March),  1654,  Samuel,  the  son  of  George 
Farley,  was  born  —  the  first  birth  in  the  town.  And  in  October, 
1654,  a  petition  to  the  General  Com-t  bears  fourteen  signatures,  and 
"the  most  of"  the  "petitioners  are  already-  seated"  here. 
This  petition  was  the  first  utterance  of  Shawshin  which  has  been 
preserved,  and  gives  information  of  the  earliest  enlargement  of  the 
bounds  of  the  town.  It  may  by  found  in  the  Massachusetts 
Archives,  in  the^'oflace  of  the^Secretary  of  State,  Vol.  112,  p.  70, 
and  is  as  follows  : — 
 - 35 - 
 - 36 - 
 - 37 - 
 - 38 - 
EARLY  GRANTS    SHAWSHIN.  17 
humbly  intreat  this  honrd  courte  at  this  [ ?  ]  to  gratify  yr  humble 
petitioners  with  a  speedy  and  expected  ans''.     So  shall  you  ever  bind  us  to 
serve  you  wherein  you  shall  command. 
Y"^  humble  Servants, 
Daniel  Gookin.  George  Farley. 
Richard  Champney.      John  Parker. 
William  French.  James  Parker. 
Robert  Parker.  Henry  Jeftes. 
John  French.  Jonathan  Danforth. 
Ralph  Hill.  John  Sterne. 
Ralph  Hill,  Jr.  William  Chambe[rline]. 
\, 
[Ore  
back  
of  
Petition.'] 
The  To*vn  desireth  the  Name  of  Shawshin  henceforth  may  bee  cal^ 
Billericay. 
In  answer  to  ys  petition  of  Shawshin,  we  conceive  y'  p'  of  ys  petition 
may  be  granted  ;  viz.  y^  tract  of  land  mentioned,  if  no  former  grants  be, 
which  we  do  not  understand. 
2diy.     Y'  the  name  of  their  Town  be  Billericay. 
Humphrey  Atherton.      Thomas  Clarke. 
Richard  Browne.  Edward  Jackson. 
The  deputies  approve  of  the  returne  of  y*  committee  in  answer  to  ys 
pet''  &  desire  o>e  horn*''  majisty  consent  yreto. 
William  Torrey,  Clerk. 
23  (8)  1654. 
The  Magistry  consent  hereto,  Provided  that  500  acres  of  this  land  be 
laid  out  for  a  farme  for  the  next  president  of  the  coUedge,  in  the  nearest 
and  best  place  of  y^  grant  where  y®  said  President  shall  choose;  & 
Mr.  Danfoith  &  whom  y®  President  shall  Joyne  with  him,  is  hereby 
appointed  &  desired  to  lay  it  out,  desiring  their  brethren,  y«  deputies, 
consent  hereto. 
Edward  Rawson,  Secy. 
2  November,  1654. 
The  deputies  do  not  consent  hereto  as  conceiving  it  to  be  very  prejudi- 
cial to  
this  plantation,  if  not  that  which  will  be  destructive  thereunto,  but 
are  willing  to  graunt  the  lands  in  some  other  place  where  it  may  be  found, 
according  to  law,  provided  that  y^  president  continue  in  y'  place  three 
yeai-s,  &  all  w'''  reference  to  the  consent  of  o^  hon^i-*!  majist^  hereto. 
William  Torrey,  Clerk. 
30th.  3.  1655.     Consented  to  by  y^  majist^. 
Edward  Rawson,  Secrty. 
 - 39 - 
13  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
This  petition  unfortunatel}'  has  no  date,  but  was  presented  to  the 
General  Court  before  23  October,  1654,  as  on  that  day  the  favor- 
able report  of  a  committee  upon  it  was  approved  by  the  deputies  and 
sent  to  the  magistrates  for  concurrence.  They,  on  the  2d  Novem- 
ber, consent  to  it,  with  a  proviso  that  "the  President  of  the 
College"  have  five  hundred  acres  "in  the  nearest  and  best  place." 
The  deputies,  for  reasons  assigned,  which  were  sound  and  friendly 
to  Shawshin,  did  not  assent  to  this  proviso,  and  final  action  on  the 
petition  was  delayed  by  this  difference  of  the  two  Houses  until  the 
session  in  1G55,  May,  when  the  magistrates  "consented"  to  the 
action  of  the  deputies.  The  precise  date  of  this  action,  com- 
monly but  not  very  accurately  recognized  as  the  incorporation  of 
Billerica,  is  not  clear.  The  "30th,  3,  1655,"  as  it  stands  on  the 
petition,  may  refer  either  to  the  final  action  of  the  deputies  or  to 
the  subsequent  concurrence  of  the  magistrates.  In  either  case,  in 
the  absence  of  move  conclusive  testimony.  May  30  can  best  claim 
recognition  as  the  natal  day  of  Billerica." 
Of  the  signers  of  the  petition,  Daniel  Gookin  and  Richard 
Champney  were  leading  citizens  of  Cambridge  and  large  land 
owners  in  Shawshiu,  but  never  resided  here.  Probably  the  remain- 
ing twelve  had  all  made  their  homes  in  Shawshin  before  the  date  of 
this  petition,  and  all  deserve  honorable  remembrance  as  pioneers  of 
the  town. 
This  petition  records,  incidentally,  the  fact  that  an  earlier  petition 
had  met  with  favor  and  secured  for  Shawshin  an  extension  on  the 
west  side  of  Concord  River.  Its  first  bound,  west  and  north,  was 
the  Concord  and  Merrimac  Rivers.  The  language  implies  that  this 
earlier  request  had  been  made  by  settlers  here,  and  it  is  not  probable 
that  tlie  Court  would  have  granted  such  an  extension,  except  to 
actual  settlers  whose  prospects  of  success  warranted  the  favor. 
And  this    probability    adds   weight  to  the  assumption  of  a  number 
0  May  29  has  been  accepted  as  the  day  of  incorporation,  and  was  celebrated  by  the  town 
at  the  Bi-Centennial  in  1S55.  The  only  autliority  for  this  date  is  the  Kecord  of  the 
Magistrates  as  it  stands  in  Volume  IV  of  the  Colonial  Ilccords.  But  tlie  Kecord  of  the 
Deputies  (Volume  III  of  Colonial  Records)  gives  May  23  for  the  same  action.  May  23  was 
in  fact  the  first  day  of  the  session,  and  it  renuiins  in  the  margin  of  the  Record,  covering 
all  the  i)roceedings  of  the  session,  which  extended  into  June.  The  .Secretary  of  the  Magis- 
trates liiijjpened  to  insert  "May  2'J"  in  the  margin,  apparently  to  tix  the  date  of  a  certain 
"hearing"  ;  but  a  comparison  of  the  two  Records,  as  to  matters  of  common  action,  shows 
that  neither  date,  "23"  or  "29,"  has  any  authority  in  lixing  the  day  during  the  Session  in 
which  any  action  was  taken.  The  linal  date  on  the  original  petition  is  therefore  the  most 
definite  authority  yet  discovered  in  the  matter. 
 - 40 - 
EARLY  GRANTS     SHAWSHIN.  19 
already  here  in  1653,  or  even  in  1652.  It  appears  too,  that  for 
some  unexplained  reason,  this  first  extension  west  of  the  Concord 
did  not  lie  along  the  river,  but  farther  west,  and  omitted  the  tract 
described  in  this  second  petition,  six  or  seven  miles  long,  and  of 
undetermined  width. 
This  petition  is  also  memorable  as  containing  the  first  sug- 
gestion of  
the  name  which  was  henceforth  to  supplement  the 
euphonious  Shawshin  and  connect  itself  with  the  rising  town.  It 
was  natural  that  these  English  colonists,  leaving  homes  that  were 
dear  behind,  should  cultivate  the  home  feeling  by  the  transfer  of 
familiar  names  to  the  wilderness.  They  could  scarcely  appreciate 
the  melod}-,  beauty,  and  flavor  of  the  soil,  for  which  the  taste  of 
a  later  day  sighs  in  the  supplanted  Indian  names.  And  when 
Shawshin  had  secured  a  compan}^  of  earnest  English  families,  they 
began  to  inquire  for  the  English  name  it  should  bear.  Their  choice 
fell  upon  a  name  unique  and  peculiar.  There  is  but  one  Billericay 
in  England,  and  but  one  Billerica  in  the'United  States.  While  other 
names  have  been  repeated  in  newer  States,  this  remains  our  own. 
To  unfamiliar  ears  it  is  a  little  awkward  and  unattractive  ;  but  it  is 
quite  as  true  that  generations  here  have  learned  to  love  it,  and  in 
their  loyalty  would  not  subscribe  to  an  expression  of  regret  that  the 
early  and  admirable  Shawshin  was  not  retained  as  the  name  of  the 
town.  That  some  of  these  first  inhabitants  were  from  Billericay,  in 
England,  we  can  not  doubt,  and  the  tradition  is  probable  that  Ralph 
Hill  came  from  that  town. 
The  favorable  answer  of  the  General  Court  to  this  petition  is  put 
upon  its  own  Record  in  these  words  : — 
*'  
In  ans''  to  the  petieion  of  severall  proprieto's  &  inhabitants  of  Shawshin, 
humbly  desiring  a  tract  of  land  lying  nere  the  lyne  of  the  farnies  of  John 
and  Robert  Blood,  &  so  along  by  the  side  of  Concord  River,  &c.  The 
Com-t  grants  theire  request  in  that  respect,  so  as  it  
hinder  not  former  grants, 
and  graunt  the  name  of  the  plantacion  to  be  called  Billirikeyca." 
Error  as  to  spelling  the  name  came  in  early.  It  is  also  worthy 
of  note  that  in  the  original  petition  where  the  name  first  appears,  it 
is  given  as  in  England,  where  the  name  is  now  spelled  with  the  ' y ' 
final.  On  the  other  hand  it  is  probable  that  English  usage  in  the 
seventeenth  century,  often,  if  not  commonly,  omitted  the  'y' ;  and 
there  may  be  truth  in  the  suggestion  that  we  in  New  England  have 
preserved  the  earlier  form  of  the  name. 
 - 41 - 
20  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
This  action  of  the  Court  has  usually  been  described  as  the 
incorporation  of  the  town.  But  the  facts  scarcely  warrant  such 
interpretation.  It  was  simpl}'  an  enlargement  of  a  settlement 
already  organized  and  recognized,  and  a  change  of  the  name  by 
which  it  liad  been  known. 
At  the  same  time  the  Court  ratified  the  agi-eement  which  had 
been  made  between  Cambridge  and  Shawshin.  The  Records  of 
Cambridge  under  date  1654-5,  January  29,  say:  — 
In  answer  to  a  letter  sent  to  the  town  from  our  neighbors  of  Shawshine, 
alias  Bilracie.  wherein  they  desire  that  whole  tract  of  land  may  be  disen- 
gaged from  this  place  and  be  one  entire  body  of  itself.  The  town  consented 
to  choose  five  persons  a  connnittee  to  treat  and  conclude  with  them  con- 
cerning their  request  therein  ;  at  which  time  there  was  chosen  Mr.  Henry 
Dunster,  Elder  Champney,  John  Bridge,  Edwai-d  Goffe.  and  Edward 
Win  ship. 
The  i-esult  of  their  negotiations  with  the  Shawshin  settlers  is 
found  in  the  Records  of  the  General  Court  of  the  above  date. 
'*In  ans'  to  the  desire  of  our  beloved  brethren  &  neighboi's.  the  inhabi- 
tants of  
Shawshin,  requesting  imunityes  &  freedom  from  all  publicke  rates 
&  charges  at  Cambridg.  and  that  all  the  land  of  that  place,  as  well  those 
appertaining  to  the  p'nt  inhabitants  of  Cambridge,  as  those  granted  them 
by  the  Court,  might  belong  entirely  to  that  place,  for  the  better  incourage- 
ment  &  carrying  on  of  publicq  charges  that  will  necessarily  there  fall  out. 
Wee,  whose  names  are  underwritten,  being  impow'^d  by  the  inhabitants 
of  Cambridge,  at  a  publicke  meeting  of  the  toune,  the  29th  of  January, 
1654.  to  make  such  proppositions  &  conclusions  therein  as  to  us  might  seem 
most  meete  &  aequall,  doe  make  tlieise  following  proppositions  w"^"^  reffer- 
ence  to  the  compliyance  of  the  above  named,  o^  beloved  brethren  & 
neighbors,  the  inhabitants  of  Shawshin,  and  the  approbation  of  the 
Gennerall    Court,   for  the  full  conclusion  thereof. 
1.  That  all  the  lands  belonging  to  that  place  called  by  the  name  of 
Shawshin,  with  its  appurtenances  or  latter  grants  made  by  the  Gennei'all 
Court,  as  well  those  the  proprietye  &  peculiar  right  whereof  belongeth 
to  any  particular  person,  as  those  granted  by  the  toune  or  church  of 
Cambridge  to  that  place  for  a  towneshipp,  as  also  those  given  by  the 
inhabitants  of  Cambridge  for  the  furtherance  and  incouragement  of  a 
plantacion  there,  shall  be  one  entire  towneshipp  or  plantacion,  alwayes 
freed  &  acquitted  from  all  manner  of  connnon  charges  «&  rates  of  what 
nature  or  kind  soever  du(^  or  belouging  of  right  to  be  payd  unto  Cambridge 
by  virtue  of  any  graunt  of  that  place  unto  them  by  the  Gennerall  Court. 
2.  That  whensoever  any  of  the  inhabitants  of  Cambridge,  theii'e  heirs 
or  assigns,  whither  in  that  place  or  elsewhere,  shall  make  any  improove- 
 - 42 - 
EARLY  GRANTS    SHAWSHIN.  21 
ment  of  theire  lands  above  premised,  more  or  lesse,  by  fencing,  building  or 
breaking  up.  or  mowing  of  the  meadows,  every  such  person  shall  pay  to 
the  common  charges  of  that  place,  i.e.  Shawshin,  suitable  to  his  or  theire 
improovement  of  the  aforesayd  kind,  in  due  proportion  w">  the  rest  of  the 
inhabitants  in  that  place,  the  whole  estate  and  improovements  of  the  place 
being  layd  at  an  aequall  &  proportionable  rate. 
3.  That  the  inhabitants  of  Shawshin  shall  at  all  time  &  tymes  heere- 
after  forever,  acquitt  &  discharge  the  inhabitants  of  Cambridge  from  all 
common  charges,  rates,  dues,  dutyes,  &  incumbrances  by  any  manner  of 
wajes  or  meanes  due  by  them,  to  be  payd,  executed,  or  jierformed  by  vertue 
of  theire  interest  in  that  place  given  unto  them  by  the  graunt  of  the  Genne- 
rall  Court. 
4.  That  whensoever  any  of  the  inhabitants  of  Cambridge  shall  alien- 
ate theire  i)''nt  interest  in  any  of  the  above  named  lands  from  themselves 
&  heirs,  then  the  sayd  lands  shall  in  all  respects  be  liable  to  common 
charges  of  that  place,  as  though  those  particular  persons  had  theire 
graunts  thereof,  made  them  from  the  sayd  toune  or  plantacion  of  Shaw- 
shin. 
5.  That  no  person  or  persons  which  either  have  had  or  hereafter  shall 
have  any  lott  or  allotment  graunted  them  in  the  above  named  towneshipp 
of  Shawshin,  in  case  they  make  not  improovement  thereof  by  building  and 
fencing,  especially  the  houselott.  shall  have  any  power  to  make  any  sale  or 
guift  thereof  to  any  other  person,  but  such  land  and  alotments  shall 
retourne  again  to  the  toune,  i.  e.  Shawshin  ;  and  in  case  after  such  like 
improovements.  any  person  shall  then  remoove  to  the  deserting  and  leaving 
tlieire  bi'ethren  and  neighbors,  that  have  adventured  by  theire  encourage- 
ment to  
setle  there  w"^  them,  no  such  person  or  persons,  for  seven  yeares 
next  ensuing  the  confirmation  hereof,  shall  have  power  to  make  either  sale 
or  guift.  or  any  aljenation  thereof,  to  any  person  or  p^ons  whatsoever,  save 
only  unto  such  as  the  greater  part  of  the  inliabitants  then  resident  in 
Shawshin.  shall  consent  unto  and  approove  of. 
6.  Tliat  in  case  any  grievance  shall  hereafter  happen  to  arise,  which 
for  the  present  neither  side  foresee,  nor  is  heereby  clearely  determined,  that 
then  all  such  matter  of  greivance  or  difference  shallbe  from  tyme  to  tyine 
heard  and  determined  by  meete  persons,  three  or  five,  indifferently  chosen 
by  the  prudentiall  men  of  Cambridg  &  Shawshin. 
And  these  aforemintjoned  proppositions  to  be  subscribed  by  all  che 
pres"t  inhabitants  of  Shawshin,  and  by  all  such  as  heereafter  shall  have 
any  alottments  granted  them  there,  and  retourne  hereof  made  to  the  inhab- 
itants of  
Cambridg  w"'in  tenn  dayes  after  the  end  of  the  first  session  of  the 
Gennerall  Court. 
Given  under  our  hands  this  17th.  12"".  1651.  I)y  us, 
Hkxhy  Duxster. 
ElCPIAKD    CHAMPXKY. 
euwaku  goffk. 
John  Bridge. 
 - 43 - 
22  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
These   proppositions  are  accepted  of  and  consented  unto   by   us,  the 
present  inhabitants  of  Shawshin  ;   and  we  doe  humbly  crave  this  honnored 
Court  to  confirm  and  record  the  same. 
Yo''  humble  Servants. 
Ralph  Hill.  Sen'.  William  French. 
Jn".  Sterxk.  W"!.  Patten. 
George  Farley.  Ealph  Hill,  Juii. 
Jno.  Croe.  James  Parker. 
Jonathan  Danforth.       Hen:  Jeftes. 
W".  Chamberlyn.  J"o.  Parker. 
Robt:  Parker. 
"Theire  request  was  granted  by  the  Court." 
 - 44 - 
CHAPTER     II. 
FIRST    SETTLERS    LOCATIONS    AND    RELATIONSHIPS. 
The  fathers  of  New  England  builded  wisely,  perhaps  more 
wisely  than  they  knew.  They  went  about  separate  settlements  in 
the  same  spirit  and  on  the  same  principles  with  which  they  shaped 
the  colony.  Each  town  was  to  be  a  republic  in  miniature,  coherent, 
and  with  sufficient  vitality  to  maintain  itself  and  support  religious 
ordinances, —  not  a  random  collection  of  squatter-sovereigns,  but, 
from  the  start,  a  compact  body,  competent  to  welcome  or  reject 
those  who  sought  a  place  among  them.  The  colonial  policy  was  not 
narrow  but  wisely  self-defensive,  which  declined  to  open  the  door 
to  all  the  restless  adventurers  who  might  be  disposed  to  come  in 
and  make  trouble.  And  when  a  town  was  taking  shape,  time, 
correspondence,  and  long  consultations,  were  necessary-  to  secure 
the  concurrence  of  a  sufficient  number  of  suitable  families  in  the 
enterprise.  Former  neighborhood  and  famil}-  relationships  would 
be  important  factors  in  determining  these  adjustments,  as  the  early 
group  of  Billerica  families  illustrates. 
We  may  assume  that  several  families  came  near  tlie  same  time 
to  occupy  Shawshin,  and  that  this  first  settlement  took  place  in 
1652  or  earh'  in  1653.  Most  of  tlie  twelve  signers  of  the  petition  in 
1654,  October,'  had,  no  doubt,  their  homes  here  at  that  time. 
Jonathan  Danforth  was  married  the  next  mouth,  and  John  French 
and  Ralph  Hill,  Jun.,  some  years  later.  Probably,  therefore,  there 
were  nine  families  in  Shawshin  in  1651,  and  of  these,  seven  were 
located  on  the  Dudley  Farm,  and  perhaps  eight. 
John  Parker  settled  on  the  farm  reserved  for  the  Church  in 
Cambridge.  This  farm  was  located  on  both  sides  the  Shawshin, 
a  mile  wide,  from  the  Woburn  Road,  down  the  river.     His  house 
1  See  pp.  16  and  17.     Gookin  and  Champney  did  not  settle  in  Billerica. 
 - 45 - 
24  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
was  near  the  residence  of  Mr.  Slack,  on  the  East  Road,  and  was 
an  important  centre  in  the  earl}-  life  of  the  town.  Town  meetings 
were  held  in  it,  and  there  Jonathan  Danforth  came  for  his  bride, 
who  was  Mr.  Parker's  step-daughter.  James  Parker,  one  of  the 
three  purchasers  of  the  Dudley  Farm,  had  a  house-lot  on  Long 
Street  which  was  ci'ossed  by  the  Andover  Road. 
The  other  settlers  were  on  "the  farm,"  as  Mr.  Dudley's  gi'ant 
is  designated  in  the  early  records.  This  farm,  beginning  at  the 
Two  Brothers,  on  Concord  River,  extends  down  the  river  two  and 
a  half  miles  to  the  Middlesex  Turnpike,  and  is  bounded  north-east 
I)}-  the  line  of  Charnstaffe  Lane,  extended  from  the  river  to  a 
point  just  east  of  Ash  Swamp  and  the  narrow-gauge  railroad; 
south-east  by  a  line  of  which  Tufts'  Lane  is  a  fragment,  and  which 
crosses  Nutting's  Pond  near  its  west  end.  The  south  line,  four 
hundred  aud  thirt}-  rods  long,  crosses  the  Bedford  Road  at  the 
point  where  the  road  from  Hill's  Bridge  intersects  it,  and  meets 
the  east  line  very  near  the  railroad. 
John  Stearns  and  George  Farley  occupied  the  north  end  of  this 
farm,  the  Bedford  Road,  where  it  turns  south  from  Charnstaffe 
Lane,  forming  the  dividing  line  between  them.  Stearns's  house 
was  south  of  Charnstaffe  Lane,  probably  near  the  Deacon  Whiting 
place  ;  and  Farley's  house  near  the  Jaquith  place.  Next,  on  the 
south,  was  Ralph  Hill,  Sen.,  near  Mrs.  Judkins'  ;  and,  east  of  his 
farm,  Lieut.  William  French  had  his  home,  towards  Indian  Hill,  as 
the  hill  north  of  Nutting's  Pond  was  called.  Robert  Parker's  lot 
was  on  the  east  side  of  the  farm,  and  his  house-lot  then,  or 
afterwards,  was  east  of  the  farm  and  south-east  of  Dr.  Noyes's 
pi'esent  residence.  ■  
William  Chamberline  and  Henry  Jefts  were 
between  Parker  and  Stearns,  but  their  exact  location  is  undeter- 
mined. Jefts  was  on  or  near  Indian  Hill,  and  Chamberline  probably 
nearer  to  the  Woburn  Road. 
The  location  of  the  succeeding  families,  and  of  the  future 
village,  was  determined  by  a  grant  made  "by  the  Church  of 
Cambridge  for  a  Towneship."  This  Township  and  its  inhabitants 
are  often  mentioned  in  the  early  records.  It  consisted  of  four 
hundred  acres,  bounded  south  by  Charnstaffe  Lane,  and  west  b}* 
the  river.  John  Trull's  farm,  known  as  the  Bridge  place  and  now 
owned  by  Mrs.  Farmer,  included  its  north-east  corner  ;  and  the  lane 
leading  from  Long  Street  to  this  house  is  a  few  rods  north  of  the 
Township  line.      House-lots,  twenty  to  thirty  acres  in  size,  were 
 - 46 - 
FIRST   SETTLERS  —  LOCATIONS   AND   RELATIONSHIPS.         25 
granted  within  this  Township  to  most  of  the  first  settlers,  and  "they 
upon  the  township"  held,  by  agreement,  a  prior  claim  over  "those 
on  Mr.  Dudley's  farm,"  in  the  future  distribution  of  common  land. 
Here  Jonathan  Danforth  built  his  house  on  the  north  side  of  West 
Street  in  1654,  unless  his  house-building  followed  his  marriage.  It 
was  perhaps  the  first  house  in  the  village,  and  unless  it  was  replaced 
by  a  second  house  before  1675,  which  is  not  probable,  it  stands  there 
today,  and  after  two  hunched  and  twenty-three  years  we  may  still 
gaze  upon  its  venerable  and  (alas !  that  we  must  add)  vanishing 
form.^  William  Patten,  or  Thomas,  his  son,  perhaps  both,  came 
the  same  year,  and  his  house  stood  near  Mr.  Frank  Richardson's. 
Ralph  Hill,  Jun.,  had  a  house-lot  on  what  is  now  Mr.  Kimball's 
farm,  which  he  sold  soon  after  to  John  Poulter,  the  brother  of 
Danforth's  wife.  And  in  May,  1656,  Mr.  Hill  bought  of  William 
Baker  the  farm  south  of  his  father's.  His  house,  a  garrison  of 
1675,  stood  where  Mrs.  Boyden  lives.  It  had  been  built  and 
occupied  by  Edward  Chamberline,  and  Baker's  occupanc}'  was  brief. 
B}'  1660,  the  number  of  families  had  increased  to  forty. 
Without  attempting  to  give  the  exact  order  of  their  coming,  or 
location,  the  following  may  be  taken  as  an  approximate  statement: 
William  Hamlet  was  on  the  north-east  of  Bare  Hill,  (the  hill  south 
of  the  village,)  near  the  Crosb}'  place  ;  James  Kidder  was  opposite 
Danforth,  where  Mr.  Gardner  Parker  lives  ;  John  Rogers  was  near 
Mr.  Charles  Parker's  ;  William  Tay,  near  Dr.  Noyes's  place,  just 
south  of  the  village  ;  John  Baldwin,  near  Mrs.  Bennett's,  and  Jacob 
Brown,  near  Mr.  Whitman's,  (he  sold  out  to  John  Stearns  about 
1663).  Samuel  Champney,  son  of  the  notable  Elder  Richard,  of 
Cambridge,  early  had  purchased,  and  in  1669  sold  again  to  Richard 
Daniel,  the  five  hundred  acres  granted  by  Cambridge  to  Edward 
Collins,  and  his  house  was  south  of  the  Woburn  Road,  near  the 
Shawshin  River.  Simon  Crosby  was  on  the  north  side  of  Bare  Hill  ; 
Samuel  Kemp,  on  the  East  Road,  near  Miss  Sophia  Allen's  ;  and 
Samuel  Kinsley,  south  of  Fox  Hill  and  near  Mr.  Harding's  place. 
John  Marshall  was  "partly  on  and  partly  off  the  towneship,"  on  the 
east  side,  beyond  Ash  Swamp,  and  south-east  of  Mr.  Kimball's. 
Golden  Moore  bought  James  Parker's  place,  before  mentioned  ; 
James  Paterson,  "on  the  north  side  of  the  township,"  between  the 
late  Dr.   Pillsbury's  place  and  Mr.   Sanborn's  ;    
John  I'oulter,   on 
-  See  picture  of  it  elsewhere. 
 - 47 - 
26  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
Andover  Street,  near  Mr.  Kimball's  ;  and  John  Sheldon  bej'ond 
him,  near  Mr.  Johnson's  place  ;  John  Trull  had  lived,  before  1659, 
on  Captain  Gookin's  farm,  and  perhaps  in  the  "  Shawshin  House"  ; 
he  then  received  a  grant  at  the  Bridge  place,  east  of  Long  Street  ; 
George  Willice  sold  in  1659  his  place  south  of  the  Baptist  Church  to 
Daniel  Shed.  Web  has  left  his  name  on  "AYeb's  Brook,"  and  lived 
beside  it,  near  Mr.  Maynard's  ;  Simon  Bird  was  west  of  Long 
Street  and  south  of  the  corner,  (his  grant  included  most  of  the 
Spalding  Farm  and  Mr.  Stackpole's)  ;  and  beyond  were  John 
Bracket,  between  the  two  brooks  ;  John  Durrant,  whose  grant 
extended  to  Mr.  Jones's  north  line  ;  and  William  Haile,  whose 
grant  was  farther  on  towards  the  "Great  Bridge,"  or  Ford  way. 
Thomas  Foster  was  east  of  Bare  Hill,  near  Mr.  McKay's  ;  Joseph 
Tompson,  at  the  Tuft's  place,  south  of  the  north-east  corner  of 
the  Dudley  Farm  ;  Peter  Bracket,  east  of  Tompson  and  south  of 
Marshall  ;  John  Kittredge,  near  Mr.  Knowles's,  south  of  Bare  Hill  ; 
Thomas  Hubbard,  west  of  Long  Street  and  north  of  the  Township, 
or  between  Dr.  Pillsbury's  place  and  Mrs.  Wild's  ;  Dr.  Roger 
Toothaker,  at  the  old  Rogers'  place,  near  North  Billerica  ;  and 
last,  but  not  least.  Rev.  Samuel  Whiting,  whose  place  was  east  of 
Concord  Road  and  north  of  Charnstaffe  Lane.  His  house  stood 
opposite  the  old  Deacon  Whiting  place,  just  where  Charnstaffe  Lane 
descends  from  the  west  to  the  brook. 
Forty  families  are  here  enumerated  having  homes  in  Billeri(;a 
in  1660.  It  is  a  matter  of  interest  to  note  the  places  froni  which 
thev  came  and  the  various  relationships  and  interests  which  drew 
them  together  and  helped  to  compact  the  rising  community.  In 
examining  this  subject  it  will  be  convenient  to  anticipate  dates  a 
little  and  group  with  these  names  several  others  who  came  in  the 
next  twenty  years. 
The  larger  number  came  naturall}'  from  Cambridge.  Fifteen  of 
the  flftv-five  earliest  names  belong  to  the  mother  town.  Champnej', 
Crosby,  Danforth,  French,  Frost,  Hamlet,  Hide,  Hubbard,  Kidder, 
Manning,  More.  Parker,  Patten,  Ross,  and  Willice  ;  and  probably 
John  Parker  and  Poulter  should  be  added  to  this  group,  and  by  his 
marriage,  at  least,  John  Trull.  Samuel  Champney  was  a  son  of 
YAder  Richard  Champne}',  one  of  the  foremost  men  of  Cambridge, 
and  a  large  proprietor  in  Shawshin.  He  married  a  sister  of  Thomas 
Hubbard,  who  died  here  in  1662  ;  and  his  sister  married  Jacob 
French.    Jonathan  Danforth  married  a  sister  of  John  Poulter,  whose 
 - 48 - 
FIRST    SETTLERS    LOCATIONS    AND    RELATIONSHIPS.         27 
widowed  mother  had  become  the  wife  of  John  Parker.  James 
Fi'ost  married  a  daughter  of  William  Hamlet,  who  had  married  Mrs. 
Hubbard,  the  mother  of  Samuel  Champne^'s  wife.  Jonathan  Hyde 
married  Dorothy,  daughter  of  James  Kidder,  but  did  not  long  stay 
in  Billerica.  Kidder  married  a  niece  of  Golden  More,  who  had 
himself  manned  the  widow  of  John  Champne}-.  Samuel  Manning's 
wife  was  Elizabeth,  sister  of  John  Stearns,  and  Isaac  Learned,  one 
of  three  purchasers  of  the  Dudley  Farm,  married  another  sister. 
The  connection  of  the  Parkers,  John  and  Robert,  can  not  be 
affirmed,  but  is  probable.  Thomas  Willice  married  Grace,  daughter 
of  William  Ta}',  who  came  from  Boston  to  Billerica,  and  John 
Trull  manied  Sarah  French,  niece  of  Lieut.  William  French,  of 
Cambridge,  and  sister  of  Joseph  French,  the  son-in-law  of  Thomas 
Foster,  who  lived  near  him. 
The  contribution  next  in  number  and  importance  to  the  Billerica 
compan}'  came  as  naturally  from  Woburn.  It  includes  eleven  names  : 
Bacon,  Baldwin,  Brooks,  Chamberline,  Fai-ley,  Hill,  Jefts,  Richard- 
son, Walker,  Wilson,  and  Ay3'man.  . 
Michael  Bacon  and  John  Baldwin  married  daughters  of  Thomas 
Richardson,  of  Woburn,  and  their  brother  Thomas  became  the 
occupant  of  the  Church  Farm  after  the  death  of  John  Parker  in 
1668,  and  a  leading  citizen  of  Billerica.  William  Chamberline  was 
probably-  connected  with  Thomas,  one  of  the  Dudley  Farm  purchasers, 
who  afterwards  manned  Danforth's  mother-in-law,  the  widow  of  John 
Parker.  George  Farley  and  Henry  Jefts  married  sisters,  we  need 
not  doubt,  as  they  bore  the  unusual  name  of  Births.  Ralph  Hill, 
Sen.,  had  taken  a  second  wife,  Margaret,  the  mother  of  Roger 
Toothaker;  and  in  his  will  he  calls  William  French,  "brother." 
Ralph  Hill,  Jun.,  married  Martha  Toothaker,  his  step-sister.  Joseph 
Walker  was  the  son-in-law  of  John  Wj^man,  of  the  family  which 
held  much  land  in  Billerica  as  well  as  Woburn. 
Braintree  gave  to  Billerica  an  important  circle  of  eight  families. 
The  mother  of  Simon  Crosb}'  had  married,  some  years  before,  the 
Rev.  Joseph  Tompson,  of  Braintree,  his  second  wife.  In  his 
parish,  Capt.  Richard  Bracket  lived,  an  active  and  exemplars- 
deacon  in  his  church.  Naturally  enough,  the  minister's  son  Joseph, 
and  step-son  Simon  Crosby,  found  wives  in  the  deacon's  family,  and 
one  Samuel  Kinsley  was  equally  fortunate.  These  sisters  had 
twin  brothers,  John  and  Peter,  and  the  five  brothers  and  sisters  all 
came  to  Billerica  and  formed  as  many  homes  here.     John  Bracket 
 - 49 - 
28  HISTORY   OF   BILLERICA. 
had  another  attraction  here,  as  his  wife  was  a  daughter  of  William 
French.       Thomas  Foster,  Daniel  Shed,  who  married  Ruth  More, 
daughter  of  Golden,  and  Christopher  Web,  make  up  the  Braintree 
families,  most  of  whom  were  located  south  and  east  of  the  village. 
John  Rogers  came  with  John  Stearns  from  Watertown,  and  Job 
Lane  from  Maiden.     He  was  the  purchaser  of  the  entire  Winthrop 
Farm,  which  he  divided  b}-  his  will  between  his  son.  Col.  John,  and 
two   grand-sons,    Samuel   Fitch   and    Mathew   Whipple.     His  wife 
was  the  daughter  of  Rev.  John  Reyner,   pastor  of  Plymouth  and 
Dover,  whose  son  Jolin  became  his  father's  colleague  and  successor. 
A  few  came  from  England  direct  to  Billerica.     Richard  Daniel, 
"Gentlemen,"  as  he  is  often  called  in  the  records,  and  mentioned 
with  deference,  bought  the  farm  of  the  Cambridge  Church  of  seven 
hundred  acres  and  Samuel  Champney's  farm  of  five  hundred  acres, 
in  1669.     His  wife  was  daughter  of  Sir  John  Pye  ;    and  about  1678 
they  returned  to  England.     Edward  Farmer  came  from  Warwick- 
shire,  ancestor  of  a  notable  family  ;    and  John  Kittredge,   whose 
descendants  have  been  man^^  aijd  honorable,  came  in  the  service  of 
John  Parker,  who  is  called  his  "master."     James  Paterson  was  a 
Scotchman,  of  whom  Savage  says  :    "He  is  one  of  only  four  or  five 
that   prospered   here    among   the   great   crowd   of  romantic  young 
followers  in  Scotland  of  Charles  II,  who  in  the  blood}'  days     *     * 
of  1650  and  1651  were  captured  on  the  fields  of  Cromwell's  glory  at 
Dunbar  and  Worcester,  and  transported  to  the  colonies  to  be  sold." 
Several  hundreds  were  brought  to  Boston.    Paterson  and  Richardson 
married   sisters,   daughters   of  Andrew   Stevenson,   of  Cambridge. 
Some  years  later  another  Sccjtchman,  John  Levistone,  brought  also 
good  blood  to  Billerica.     And  if  we  could  trace  the  connections  of 
other  names,  as  Bird,  Dunkin,  Durrant,   Dutton,   Fasset,  Grimes, 
Haile,  Kemp,  Marshall,  Sanders,  Sheldon,  and  Trull,  they  would  no 
doubt  furnish  points  of  similar  interest. 
Facts  like  these  taken  sepatatel}'  have  little  intez-est  ;  but  group 
them  and  they  show  that  the  men  and  women  who  laid  the  founda- 
tions in  
Billerica  were  no  random  collection  of  adventurers.  They 
formed  from  the  outset  a  community  bound  together  b}'  a  network  of 
ties  which  assured  mutual  sympathy  and  helpfulness.  This  was  an 
essential  condition  of  their  success.  Societ}'  is  not  a  mere  conglom- 
erate of  
individuals.  Throw  men  and  women  together  of  diverse 
antecedents  and  inharmonious  qualit}',  and  they  will  not  be  long  in 
falling  out  and  going  asunder.     Man}'  an  ambitious  and  promising 
 - 50 - 
FIRST    SETTLERS    LOCATIONS    AND   RELATIONSHIPS.        29 
attempt  at  planting  a  colony  in  America,  and  elsewhere,  has  made 
shipwreck  for  this  reason.  Pl3-mouth  and  Massachusetts  were  more 
successful,  because  the}'  sought  carefully  and  held  tenaciously  such 
elements  as  coiild  be  moulded  together,  and  repelled  those  which 
were  foreign  and  discordant.  And  what  was  true  of  the  colony 
was  true  of  the  town.  Such  a  union  of  harmonious  and  desirable^ 
elements  could  not  be  had  at  short  notice  ;  and  the  delay  of  a  few 
years,  during  which  neighbors  in  Cambridge  and  Woburn  were 
consulting  and  corresponding  with  the  design  of  planting  a  company 
of  settlers  in  the  Shawshin  wilderness,  was  well  used  in  securing  the 
growth  and  combination  of  such  germs.  It  was  better  to  make 
baste  so  slowly  that  the  town  might  prove,  as  it  did,  homogeneous 
and  successful. 
 - 51 - 
CHAPTER  III. 
LAND     DISTRIBUTION. 
The  equitable  apportionment  of  the  lands  of  the  town  among  the 
settlers  was  a  matter  of  sufficient  importance  and  difficulty  to  engage 
much  attention  and  tax  their  wisdom.  The  whole  town  included, 
after  its  enlargement  west  of  the  Concord  River,  about  thirty  thou- 
sand acres.  The  adjustment  of  what  the  first  settlers  should  receive, 
with  wise  reservations  for  later  grants  as  others  should  join  them, 
and  for  future  distributions,  must  have  been  very  carefully  debated. 
Their  territory  embraced  the  three  large  grants  to  Mrs.  Winthrop, 
Governor  Winthrop,  and  Governor  Dudley,  (5,760  acres  in  all)  ; 
one  thousand  acres  reserved  b}^  the  Church  in  Cambridge  ;  five 
grants  of  live  hundred  acres  each  to  Captain  Gookin,  Reverend  Mr. 
Weld,  Reverend  Mr.  Mitchel,  President  Dunster,  and  Mr.  Collins  ; 
and  other  grants,  to  more  than  one  hundred  citizens  of  Cambridge, 
amounthig  to  10,300  acres.  About  two-fifths  of  the  whole  town 
only  was  really  free  and  common  land,  open  to  the  occupancy  and 
disposition  of  the  settlers,  when  they  first  came  to  Shawshin  ;  but 
the  subsequent  grant  from  the  General  Court  of  eight  thousand  acres 
at  Naticott  enabled  them,  b}^  purchase  and  exchange,  to  secure  most 
of  the  small  Cambridge  titles,  and  hold  about  eight  thousand  acres 
more  for  their  own  benefit  and  that  of  future  proprietors. 
The  Dudle}'  Farm  exerted  a  vital  influence  in  giving  shape  to  the 
settlement.  Extending  two  and  a  half  miles  down  the  river  from 
the  Two  Brothers,  its  north-east  boundary  fixed  the  position  of 
the  four  hundred  acres  "granted  b}-  the  Church  in  Cambridge  for 
the  Towneship,"  or  village  part  of  the  town,  Charnstaffe  Lane 
being  the  line  between  them.  And  the  first  settlement  has  the 
practical  aspect  of  an  agreement  between  the  Woburn  men  who 
had  bought  the  larger  part  of  the  "Farm,"  and  the  Cambridge 
men  who  had  received  the  Township  grant. 
 - 52 - 
LAND    DISTRIBUTION.  •  31 
The  Farm,  containing  fifteen  hundred  acres,  was  divided  into 
twelve  lots  of  one  hundred  and  twentj'-flve  acres  each,  and  this 
number  became  the  unit  of  measuring  shares  throughout  the  town. 
Each  share  was  called  a  '  
ten-acre  lot,'  and  consisted  of  one  hundred 
and  thirteen  acres  of  upland  and  twelve  acres  of  meadow,  and 
carried  with  it  the  right  to  "all  town  priviledges,  after  additions 
and  divisions  of  land  and  meadow."  Only  six  proprietors  held 
more  than  a  single  share.  Ralph  Hill  had  a  twenty-eight-acre 
lot  ;  his  father  and  Elder  Champne}',  twenty-five-acre  lots  ;  and 
Farley,  French,  and  Stearns,  twenty-acre  lots.  There  were  thirteen 
ten-acre  lots,  and  thi'rtj'-six  smaller:  eight,  six,  five,  and  two-and- 
one-half-acre  lots,  the  larger  part  being  five  acres.  The  twelve 
shares  of  the  Dudley  Farm  were  held  :  two  and  one-half,  by  Elder 
Charapney  ;  two,  by  John  Stearns  ;  one  and  one-half,  by  Ralph 
Hill,  Sen.  ;  and  one  each,  by  William  Chamberlain,  George  Farle}-, 
Lieut.  William  French,  Ralph  Hill,  Jun.,  Henr}'  Jefts,  and  Robert 
Parker. 
It  can  hardly  have  been  accidental  that  the  rights  on  the  Town- 
ship were  granted  b}-  Cambridge  in  so  nearly  the  same  number  of 
shares.  Four  P"'arm  proprietors,  Farley,  Stearns,  Ralph  Hill,  Jun., 
and  Robert  Parker,  had  also  lots  on  the  Township.  Omitting 
these,  the  lots  on  the  Township  were  also  twelve  in  number.  Their 
owners  were  Jacob  Brown,  who  soon  sold  to  Stearns,  John  Baldwin, 
Jonathan  Danforth,  Captain  Gookin,  of  Cambridge,  a  non-resident, 
James  Kidder,  John  Marshall,  Golden  More,  William  Patten,  John 
Rogers,  John  Trull,  George  Willice,  and  Reverend  Mr.  Whiting. 
Of  this  number,  Baldwin  onl}'  was  a  Woburn  man  ;  while  but  a 
single  Cambridge  man,  French,  had  his  home  on  the  Farm.  In 
the  outset,  the  Township  and  the  Farm  thus  nearly  represented 
Cambridge  and  Woburn  in  the  settlement,  which  proceeded  on  the 
basis  of  the  following  agreement  between  them:  —  ^ 
*'A  Transcript  of  a  Covenant  or  Agreement  between  tugs  which 
WERE  Proprietors  vpon  Mr.  Dudley's  Farme  and  they  that 
were  inhabitance  on  y^  township,  which  is  yet  a  standing 
Order  in  the  Towne. 
'•'■9.  9m.  165S.     The  proposition  is  as  followeth:  — 
"That  such  as  either  have  ah-eady,  or  hereafter  shall  take  up  any 
alotinent  in  the  towne,  (vpon  grant,)  shalbe  equally  accomiuodated  with 
1  See  Grants,  p.  169. 
 - 53 - 
32  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
upland  &  meadow  Avith  thos  vpon  Mr.  Dudley's  farme;  to  have  the 
one-half  of  their  lands  about  home,  either  adjoining  to  their  house-lots, 
and,  in  case  their  benot  sufFetient  for  them  there,  then  to  have  it  made 
up  vpon  the  first  next  convenient  place.  And  as  for  their  second  divitions, 
they  shall  have  it  laid  out  to  them  remote  from  the  towne,  acording  as 
they  have  their  second  divitions,  which  are  vpon  Mr.  Dudley's  farme. 
Provided  allways^  That  all  such  persons  takeing  up  such  alotraents  shall 
contribute  to  them  vpon  Mr.  Dudley's  farme  (according  to  the  proportion 
they  sliall  take  vp.  whither  a  tenne-acre,  eight,  six,  or  five-acre  lot,  or 
any  other  proportion.)  vntill  they  on  Mr.  Dudley's  farme  have  received 
half  so  nmch  as  their  first  purchase  cost;  and  as  for  any  moneys  that 
shall  come  in  to  y«  towne,  vpon  this  account  afterward,  it  shalbee  disposed 
of  to  ye  publick  use  of  the  towne,  acording  as  y^  towne  shall  order; 
all  which  payments  shalbe  made  within  two  yeare  after  their  perticular 
grants,  and  the  first  half  within  one  yeare.  Provided  allwarjs^  That  no 
person  shall  have  any  proportion  more  than  a  single  share  of  Mr.  Dudley's 
farme. 
"This  was  voted  on  y«  afffermitive  &  subscribed. 
"William  ffi-ench.  John  Parker. 
John  Rogers,  Sen.  John  Poulter. 
Will"!  Pattin.  Jonath.  Danforth. 
Will'".  Hamlett.  John  Marshall. 
Jacob  BroM^ne.  John  Baldwin. 
William  Tay.  Henery  Jeiffs. 
John  Sheldon.  George  ffarley. 
Golden  More.  Will™.  Chamberline. 
James  Kidder.  John  Sternes. 
"It  was  also,  at  y^  same  time,  agreed  vpon  by  y®  towne:  That  a 
ten-acre  lot  on  j^  towneshlp,  and  a  single  share,  or  twelfe  part  of 
Mr.  Dudley's  farme,  should  be  equall,  both  civill  and  ecclesiasticall  ;  and 
that  all  lesser  grants  (as  an  eight,  six,  or  five-acre  lot,  or  any  other  lesser 
or  greater  grants,)  should  all  pay  in  proportion  to  their  grants,  to  all 
publick  charge  as  aforesaid." 
In  fulfillment  of  the  agreement  that  the  other  inhat»itants  should 
pay  to  the  Farm  proprietors  one-half  of  what  it  had  cost  them,  we 
find  the  following  : — 
'■'•  
10 :9  :'59.     Ye  Rate  for  ye  half e  payment  of  ye  purchase. 
£    s.  d. 
"Jonathan  Danforth,  2-  5-10 
John  IFrench,  2-5-10 
Willi  Pattin,  1-16-  8 
John  Marshall,  1-7-6 
John  Baldwin,  1-16-  8 
Daniel  Shead,  1-16-8 
John  Sheldon,  2-  5-10 
Will'  Sheldon,  1-16-  8 
 - 54 - 
LAXD    DISTRIBUTION.  33 
John  Rogers,  1-16-  8 
Willi  Tay.  2-  5-10 
Goldinge  More,  2-  5-10 
Jacob  Browne,  1-16-  8 
James  Kidder.  2-5-10 
John  Poulter,  1_16_  8 
Willi  Haralett,  2-  5-10 
Willi  BrowTie,  1-16-  8 
James  Paterson,  1_  7_  6 
Simon  Burd.  2-  5-10 
•    Tho:  fibster,  1-16-  8 
Christopher  Web,^  1_  7_  6 
John  Gurney,  2-  5-10 
Samuell  Kinsley,  2-  5-10 
Y«  6  acor  Lott,  1_  7_  6 
44-18-  4" 
The  price  of  the  Dudley  Farm  was  one  hundred  and  teu  pounds. 
The  balance  of  the  fift3'-five  pounds,  which  would  make  up  the  half, 
was  probably  assessed  on  later  purchasers  in  the  town. 
The  earliest  settlers  whose  house-lots  were  on  the  common 
land  of  the  town,  or  off  the  Township  and  the  Farm,  were  William 
Hamlet  and  William  Tay,  in  165G.  The  grant  to  Hamlet  exhibits 
the  common  form  used,  with  slight  variations,  in  case  of  all  the 
early  settlers  ;    and  I  quote  : — 
•'They  have  granted  to  him  and  assignes  forever,  one  tenne-acre  lot, 
or  one  single  share  ;  that  is,  one  hundred  and  thutene  acres  of  upland  and 
twelve  acres  of  meadow  land,  together  with  all  towne  priviledges,  after 
additions  and  divitions  of  lands  and  meadows  made  or  to  be  made,  or 
granted  by  the  towne,  acording  to  any  their  *^^owne  orders,  covenants,  or 
agreements,  to  anj'  free  denison  amongst  them,  acording  to  y^  proportion 
of  a  ten-acre  lot,  and  on  this  account  are  the  following  grants." 
His  first  grant  is  of  fiftj^-six  acres,  more  or  less,  "on  the 
North-East  corner  of  bare  hill,  and  on  y'^  south  of  hogrooten 
meadow."  This  meadow  of  unsavory  name  lies  south-east  of  the 
Tompson  or  Tufts  place,  and  the  hill  is  between  the  Boston  and 
Lexington  Roads,  south-east  of  the  village,  and  east  of  Dr.  Noyes's 
house.  Hamlet's  house  must  have  stood  near  the  Crosby  place. 
Ta}'  was  on  the  west  of  the  same  hill,  at  Dr.  Noyes's  place. 
The  Braintree  compan}"  came  soon  after,  and,  bj-  1G60,  had  well 
occupied  the  line  south  and  east  of  the  village,  along  Loes^  Plain  as 
2  
Framlingham,  in  England,  the  native  town  of  Danforth,  was  in  "Loes  Hundred." 
He  gave  the  name  to  the  plain  and  a  meadow  south  of  Fox  Hill,  and  extending  as  far  as 
the  Church  Farm. 
 - 55 - 
34  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
far  as  Fox  Hill.  North  from  the  Township  ran  another  line  of  the 
earliest  farms,  Paterson,  Hubbard,  Bird,  Durrant,  and  Haile,  who 
was  near  the  Great  Bridge,  or  Fordwa3%  with  Toothaker  at  the 
extreme  point,  the  old  Rogers  place  of  a  later  da}',  by  the  canal. 
The  allotment  of  the  common  lands  to  the  settlers  began 
promptly,  and  it  was  almost  one  hundred  j-ears  before  this  land 
fund  was  exhansted.  The  earliest  assignments  were  made  to 
several  of  the  Township  proprietors  in  Loes  Plain  ;  bnt  the  first 
general  distribution  was  of  meadow  land,  which  was  specially 
important  and  valuable,  before  clearing  and  culture  had  made 
higher  grounds  productive  of  the  needed  supply  of  grass  for  winter 
use.  The  Farm  settlers  did  not  share  in  this  first  meadow 
distribution,  which  was  intended  to  equalize  the  privilege  of  the 
Township  men  with  these  Farm  purchasers. 
There  were  twenty-one  shares  in  the  first  distribution  in  1658, 
in  a  total  of  onh'  thirt^'-nine  acres,  and  these  were  located  in  two 
places.  The  first  lot  began  between  C'helmsford  line  and  Concord 
River,  on  the  west  side,  and,  running  up  the  river  through  Broad 
meadow,  the  last  of  the  thirteen  lots  was  just  south  of  the  Great 
Bridge,  or  Fordway.  The  other  eight  lots  of  this  first  division  of 
meadow  began  at  the  mouth  of  Long  Pond,  and,  following  the 
Alewife  or  Content'  Brook,  the  last  lot,  John  Baldwin's,  was  near 
Pattenville,  and  Danforth's  lot  at  the  right  hand  of  the  Andover  or 
Depot  Road.  The  agreement  for  this  division  and  the  following 
stands  thus  : —  * 
"It  is  agreed  by  the  joynte  consente  of  the  Towne,  that  for  the 
devition  of  meddows  for  the  several  inhabitants  [ ?  ]  to  begin  at  the 
Lower  end  of  the  medow  on  the  other  side  Concord  [river]  Next  toward 
Patuckett  at  Chelmsford  corner,  and  so  upward  to  the  [?]  above  the 
Bridge,  and  so  to  begin  again  at  the  pond  below  foxes  hill,  and  so  down 
Alewife  brooke.  and  so  to  take  the  spanges  of  medow  to  the  Colage 
meddow,  and  so  down  to  Andover  Line,  and  take  all  the  lueddow  on  both 
sides  Shawshin  river,  to  be  devided  by  lott  according  as  shall  be  adjudged 
by  A  co^itee,  for  what  is  rubish  nieddowe  to  be  layed  out  quantitive, 
y'  every  man  may  be  aco"'idated  alike,  as  nere  as  the  said  comittee  can 
judge;  the  eomitee  apoynted  for  the  meshuringe  and  Laying  out  the  said 
meddow  lands  and  Lots  of  uplande  are  • 
"Jonathan  Danforth, 
[Other  names  torn  off.']  "  [Henry  Je]ftes." 
2  
Tlie  earliest  name  of  this  brook  was  "Alewife."  The  plain  beyond  soon  probably 
received  the  name  "Content";  then  the  meadow,  and  before  long  brook,  meadow,  and 
plain  were  all  "Content."       *  Records.    Vol.  I,  p.  8. 
 - 56 - 
LAND    DISTRIBUTION.  35 
"For  the  first  devitions:  y*'  devitiones  of  meddow  to  begin  as  afore- 
said, on  the  other  side  Concord  river,  soe  upward ;  &  from  y«=  ponde  down 
the  brook  to  Content  bridge;  &  so  Lay  out  the  several  lotts,  crosse  the 
meddows  on  both  sides  the  brool<. 
The  second  devitione  to  begin  on  the  South  side  of  foxes 
Meadowii         jjju .   gQg  taking  all  the  spanges  before  vs  untill  we  come 
lying  in  Lotts  ,  ,  r^,  ...  ,,.,,. 
of  upland  for  prt.    dowuewarde  upon  Shawshm  river,  on  both  sides  the  river, 
of  proportions  of     ^q  tijp  Lower  eaudc  of  the  collage  fanne:   then  to  extend 
meadows.  ,  ,  ,^,  ,  .         .  ,,.,,. 
downewarde  upon  Shawshin  river,  on  both  sides  the  river, 
taking  in  all  that  is  meadow  before  vs  y*^  is  in  o""  Boundes  to  Woeburne 
line,  vntill  we  come  to  Alewife  brooke,  and  so  to  run  vp  that  brooke  vntill 
we  come  to  Contente  bridge;  then  to  extend  from  ye  mouth  of  Alewife 
Brooke  upon  Shawshin  river  untill  we  come  to  heth  Brook;  then  to  take 
all  the  medow  y'  is  on  that  Brooke,  so  far  as  there  is  any  toward  contente 
meddow  ;  
then  to  begin  again  where  we  left  of  upon  the  river,  and  so  to  lay 
out  the  meddow,  till  we  come  at  the  mouth  of  Strongvvater  brooke,  and  so  to 
Andover  Boundes  ;  then  to  take  all  before  us  who^ewards,  untill  we  come 
at  the  great  meadow;  then  to  begin  at  the  Bound  pine  upon  Hors  brook, 
between  Andover  and  o''  Towne,  takeing  all  before  us  toward  merimake 
river  ;  and  for  such  meddows  as  I.ye  in  any  man's  Alotment  of  upland,  he 
shall  [have  it  as  part]  of  his  first  devition  [of  meddow],  any  nere  meddow 
conven[ient  to  other]  men,  it  is  left  with  the  Com[mittee  to  dis]pose  of 
to  acomidate  such  [persons  with]  the  said  meddows,  (upon  [?]  as  afore- 
said,) dividing  them  [with  '?]  
equalitie,  acordinge  to  ther  [own]  discretione. 
without  respect  of  [persons]  . 
•'It  is  agreed  that  the  second  lot  in  order  shall  begin  at  the  stake  at 
ye  Lower  end  of  Concord  river  meddow  ;  and  it  is  also  agreed  that  the  second 
devition  of  the  several  alotments  of  meddow  shall  be  a  third  part  of  there 
proportione,  and  what  is  yet  remaining  shall  be  made  up  in  the  third 
devetione. 
"The  Lotts  were  drawne  by  the  severall  inhabitantes,  whose  Names 
are  here  underwritten,  to  the  Number  of  Twenty  and  three  Lotts,  besides 
the  meddows  for  the  minister;  which  Lots  of  meddow  for  the  minister 
were  joyntly  agreed  upon  to  be  Layed  out,  in  the  firste  place,  acordinge  to 
the  best  disci'etione  of  the  Comittee  apoynted  for  the  worke. 
1th.     2th.      3th. 
•'William  Tay  drew 
Jacob  Browne 
Jonathan  Danforth 
Will'  Patten 
Will'  flfrench 
James  Kidder 
Goldinge  More 
John  Sheldon 
John  Rogers 
Will'  Hamlitt 
John  Poulter 
2 
13 
23 
3        15         13 
20 
7          3 
179           8          6 
16         22 
5        11            4 
15           9        24 
11 
5        10 
22 
6          8 
23 
22 
21            4        18 
19 
 - 57 - 
!4         lU 
8         19 
0         20 
36  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
John  Baldwin 
John  Marshall 
George  Willowes  10        20        20 
"9  lots  drawn  for  by  the  Towne,  that  were  then  vndisposed  of,  and 
taken  up  since,  as  tolloweth  :  3  ten-acre  lots,  and  3  8-acre  lots,  and  3 
6-aere  lots. 
"  [10]  acor  lot  Simon  Bird. 
"  [G  aco]r  James  Paterson." 
The  second  division  began  on  the  Shawsliin  below  tlie  College 
Farm,  at  a  place  called  by  the  Records  the  "willow  spang"  ; 
and  including  twent\'-foar  lots  on  botli  sides  the  river,  extended 
nearly  to  Strongwater  Brook,  or  half  way  tlirough  Tewksbnrj. 
The  third  division  of  meadow  was  made  also  in  1658,  and,  after 
assigning  four  lots  farther  down  the  Shawsliin  to  Andover  bounds, 
passed  over  to  tlie  great  meadow  south-east  of  Prospect  Hill,  which 
is  a  mile  north  of  Tewkslnuy  Junction,  and  follows  the  meadow  on 
Strongwater  Brook  back  to  the  Shawshin  River  again.  Tliis  remote 
division  was  as  large  as  the  other  two,  and  gave  all  the  settlers.  an 
average  of  ten  acres  of  meadow  in  the  tliree  widely  separate  fields. 
The  conditions  of  this  pioneer  farming  were  certainly  not  the  most 
attractive,  when  the  Townehip  farmer  must  travel  three  miles  north 
one  da}',  and  four  miles  east  the  next,  by  roads  which  consisted 
mostl}'  of  blazed  trees,  to  bring  home  the  meadow  hay,  on  which  his 
cow  and  horse  were  to  subsist  when  winter  came.  This  process  of 
taking  possession  of  the  wilderness,  in  the  name  and  for  the  benefit 
of  civilization,  tested  and  developed  the  manhood  of  these  brave 
men  and  women. 
The  next  general  division  consisted  of  upland  ;  and  the  Farm 
proprietors  sliared  with  those  on  the  Township.  It  was  made  in 
1659,  November,  and  included  thirty-nine  lots  and  fort}'  persons; 
Peter  Bracket  and  Joseph  Tompson  holding  in  common  the  right  of 
John  Gurnc}',  of  Braintree.  -  The  Record  describes  this  division  as 
"in  the  great  common  field,  on  the  East  side  of  Concord  river, 
below  the  great  Bridge."  It  began  "at  the  little  swamp  next  below 
the  falls,"  or  a  little  south  of  North  Billerica  village,  and  extended 
' '  
down  Concord  river,  towards  Pawtucket,  so  far  as  the  brook  called 
Bacon  brook,"  which  is  just  south  of  the  Salem  Railroad  crossing 
of  the  Concord  River  ;  ' '  
and  the  breadth  of  the  said  land  to  ly 
along  as  the  cart-path  that  leads  down  towards  Pawtucket,"  near,  if 
not  identical  with,   the  present   highway.     Tliis  division  averaged 
 - 58 - 
LAND    DISTRIBUTION.  37 
twentj'-two  acres  to  each  person,  or  eight  hundred  and  eighty'  in  all. 
When  the  line  of  Mrs.  Winthrop's  farm  was  run,  it  was  found  to 
extend  south  of  Bacon  Brook,  and  cut  off  the  north  eight  lots  of  this 
division.  For  these  the  owners  received  other  lots  near  the  head  of 
Heath  Brook  in  a  plain  called,  no  doubt  for  this  reason,  Recompense 
Plain. 
At  the  same  time  another  important  division  was  made,  in  which 
the  Farm  proprietors  did  not  share.  It  is  often  referred  to  in  the 
Records  as  the  "second  division."  It  was  "on  the  right  hand  of 
the  wa}'  Leading  toward  gloab  hill,  by  Shawshin  River,  and  so 
joining  to  Shawshin  River  and  the  College  farme  on  the  southward 
part,  and  abutting  on  the  ends  of  those  Lots  at  Loose  pla3'ne  on  the 
Weste  ;  and  in  case  there  be  not  suffitient  thare,  then  to  take  it 
between  heath  brook  mouth  and  the  highwa}'  before  mentioned,  and 
so  come  homeward  again.  And  for  the  devition  of  the  said  lands, 
it  is  agreed  it  shall  be  devided  into  two  devitions,  until  3'ou  come  so 
far  as  ailwife  brook,  which  deviding  Line  shall  be  about  the  middle 
of  the  Land  between  the  above  mentioned  highway  and  Shawshin 
river,  butting  upon  Loose  playne  and  Ailwife  brook.  The  1st  Lott 
shall  begin  next  Samuel  Kinsley,  his  Lott,  and  so  goe  on  until  you 
come  to  Ailwife  brook  ;  then  begin  at  the  west  end  of  the  other  part 
of  the  devition,  and  so  goe  on  until  3'ou  come  to  ailwife  brook  ;  then 
to  begin  bej'ond  the  brook  and  run  from  the  highway  to  the  river, 
and  so  goe  on  till  you  come  to  gloab  hill  ;  then  returne  homeward, 
between  the  highway  and  heath  brook,  if  need  be." 
Globe  Hill  is  near  the  Shawshin,  in  Tewksbury,  and  is  probablj' 
the  same  on  which  the  State  Alms-house  now  stands  ;  and  the  road 
named  is  the  present  highway  through  Patten ville.  This  description 
includes  the  territory  between  Loes  Plain  and  Fox  Hill  on  the  west, 
the  Shawshin  meadows  south-east,  and  the  Church  Farm  south-west. 
The  Rangeway,  which  separated  the  First  and  Second  Parts,  as  they 
were  called,  of  this  Second  Division,  began  near  the  Asa  Holden 
place,  and  passed  the  present  fork  in  the  roads  where  Mr.  James 
Page  lives.  The  two  rows  of  lots  were  laid  right  and  left  from  it, 
towards  the  road  and  the  river.  The  first  row  of  nine  lots  began 
with  Thomas  Hubbard's,  south  of  Fox  Hill,  which  passed  very  soon 
by  his  death  to  Samuel  Manning.  Others  between  the  road  and  the 
Rangeway  were  Daniel  Shed,  William  Patten,  James  Kidder,  Thomas 
Foster,  James  Paterson,  John  Baldwin,  John  Marshall,  and  John 
Parker,  who  also  bought  Marshall's  and  owned  a  lot  of  eighty  acres 
 - 59 - 
38  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
near  I'attenville.  The  second  part  of  this  division  began  farther 
south,  near  the  Deacon  P^dmands  place,  and  ran  farther  down  the 
river,  inchuling  seventeen  lots.  The  twenty-six  lots  of  this  division 
included  1,103  acres,  more  or  less. 
In  16G3,  December,  another  division  of  meadow  land  took  place, 
and  was  to  all  the  inhabitants.  It  began  in  the  remote  south-west 
part  of  the  town,  now  Carlisle  ;  four  lots  had  Chelmsford  line  north, 
and  three  were  in  Fort-wall  meadow,  which  reached  Concord  line  a 
mile  be3ond  Carlisle  village.  Coming  thence,  homeward,  three  lots 
were  in  Fort  meadow,  as  many  in  Brook  meadow,  ten  in  Treble-cove 
meadow,  four  on  the  Concord  River,  two  on  the  Pond  Bi'ook,  four 
in  Patch  meadow,  three  in  Long-hill  meadow,  one  south-west  of 
Gilson's  Hill,  and  the  last  three  on  the  river  again  opposite  the 
Township.     These  lots  averaged  two  acres  each,  or  eight}'  in  all. 
A  month  later,  in  January,  1663-4,  allotments  of  upland  were 
made  in  several  places  to  forty-five  proprietors.  Fifteen  lots  were  in 
a  field,  beginning  opposite  the  lower  end  of  the  Township,  on  the 
west  side  of  Concord  River,  and  running  down  the  river.  Nine  lots 
ran  along  the  Shawshin  on  the  east  side,  beginning  at  the  College 
Farm;  twelve  were  in  the  "pine  plain  be3ond  Content"  Brook,  or 
near  the  Tewksbury  line  ;  three  were  north  of  Fox  Hill  and  Brook, 
east  of  Mr.  Nason's  place  ;  and  six  on  the  plain  on  this  side  of 
Strongwater  Brook,  as  near  as  might  be  "to  their  own  meadows 
there." 
Grants  made  at  various  times  and  places,  in  this  wa}',  could  not 
alwa3s  satisf}'  the  men  who  received  them.  One  would  prove  less 
valuable  or  convenient  than  another,  and  in  1665,  December,  a 
committee  was  appointed  to  make  a  Gratuity  Division,  as  it  was 
called,  or  grants  to  various  individuals,  and  exchanges  with  them  for 
common  land,  such  as  equity'  called  for,  or  would  silence  complaints. 
Thirty  persons  received  such  special  grants  ;  but  Farley  and  Stearns 
had  no  share,  as  the  committee  "Judge  that  their  divitions  on  the 
Towneship,  already-  laid  out  to  them,  is  more  than  in  proportion  is 
granted  to  other  men  lying  as  convenient."  John  Marshall  has 
"  two  acres  by  his  house  instead  of  six  elsewhere."  John  Sheldon 
has  ' ' 3   acres  &  33  pole  joining  to  his  east  line  of  his  home  lot,  or 
else  10  acres,  at  foxes."  John  Kittredge  "one-third  part  of  five 
acres,  adjoyning  to  the  South  side  of  his  house-lot,  &  he  is  content," 
and  so  on.  James  Kidder  received  two  and  a  half  acres  taken  from 
the  highway  north  of  his  house-lot,  now  West  Street. 
 - 60 - 
LAND    DISTRIBUTION.  39 
In  the  winter  of  1665-6,  a  large  meadow  lying  north-east  of 
Prospect  Hill  was  divided  into  fort^'-two  lots,  and  granted  to  as 
many  persons.  In  this  division  it  was  agreed  that  there  should  be 
no  allowance  of  "quantity  for  quality,"  such  as  had  been  common. 
Another  distribution  was  made  at  the  same  time,  with  the  privilege 
to  each  man  of  choosing  where  his  lot  should  lie,  the  quantity  being 
one  and  one-quarter  acres  to  each  ten-acre  lot.  Seven  chose  lots 
west  of  Concord  River,  near  the  Great  Bridge,  and  fourteen  accepted 
Heath  meadow  for  forty  acres,  holding  it  in  common,  and  subject  to 
such  future  division  as  the\'  might  agree  upon. 
The  last  general  division  of  land  which  was  made  before  1685 
took  place  in  January,  1665-6.  It  was  a  meadow  division,  located 
"in  the  great  meadow  North-East  of  Prospect  Hill,"  and  near 
Andover.     The  following  condition  was  attached  to  this  action  : — 
"It  is  agreed  by  y"  Joint  consent  of  the  Towne,  before  the 
alotments  of  the  northerly  medow  at  Prospect  Hill,  that  in  case 
Cambridge  men  shall  recover  any  meadow  in  our  precincts,  in 
reference  to  their  lots  in  this  Towne  bounds,  granted  them  by 
Cambridge,  that  then  the}^  shall  have  it  in  this  northerly  meadow  ; 
and  then  the  alotment  of  this  meadow  shall  be  a  nullity,  vnlesse 
the  towne  shall  see  cause  to  satisf}^  such  persons  (whose  alotments 
shalbe  taken  away)  in  some  other  place,  to  their  content."  In  other 
words,  they  did  not  intend,  if  the  troublesome  Cambridge  claims 
could  not  be  adjusted  and  were  enforced  upon  them,  to  permit  their 
location  in  any  of  the  near  and,  to  them,  more  desirable  parts  of  the 
town. 
The  Record  proceeds  :  ' '  
We  do  agree  that  y^  northerly  meadow 
at  Prospect  Hill  shalbe  alotted  acording  to  towne  order,  to  y''  whoU 
inhabitance  concerned  therein  ;  and  for  the  order  of  the  lying  of  y* 
said  alotments,  we  do  agree  that  there  shalbee  first  a  dividing  line, 
from  this  end  of  the  meadow  to  y"  further  end,  rufiing  as  convenient 
as  ma}'  be  about  y^  middle  of  the  meadow  ;  and  the  first  lot  shall 
begin  at  this  hither  end,  on  y^  left  hand  or  west  side  of  y*  dividing 
line,  and  so  take  y"'  in  order  going  round,  coming  homeward  on  the 
East  side  of  the  meadow,  so  that  }-'*  
last  and  y"  first  lot  will  lye  neer 
east  and  west  of  each  othere. 
"Further  we  do  agree  that  in  this  divition  their  shalbee  noe 
consideration  of  allowing  quantity  for  quality  to  any  person.  Also, 
it  was  agreed  that  Joseph  Tomson  and  John  Bracket  should  have 
liberty  to  draw  one  lot  for  both  their  proportions. 
 - 61 - 
40                            HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
At  the  same  meeting  y"  alotments  drawne  were  as  followeth  : — 
].      Willinm  Iliiilo. 
•2. 
.lohn  StiMiios. 
;{.       .lohii  FiTiich. 
4.     Cliiistopher  Web. 
5.      Thomas  Pattin. 
G.     Thomas  Willice. 
John  Baldwin. 
8.      Jolm  Roofis.  Sen'" 
0.     Jolin  Shildon. 
10.      Eld""  Chanme. 
11.      John  Poulter. 
12.      Capt.  Bracket. 
13.      Samuel  Maning. 
14.      Peter  Bracket. 
1.0.       Jpnath  :   Danforth 
IG.      Mr.  VV^hiting. 
17.      Jacob  French. 
18.     John  Parker. 
19.  j John  Bracket. 
I  
Joseph  Tomsoq. 
20.     Ben:   Parker. 
21.      Georffe  Farley. 
22.      John  Durrant. 
23.      James  Frost. 
24.      John  Kitteridge. 
25.      Simon  Bird. 
26.     James  Paterson. 
27.     Daniell  Sheed. 
28.      Simon  Crosbee. 
29.      Nath:   Hill. 
30.      Samuel  Chamne. 
31.     Will'"  Chamberline 
32. 
Will'"  Hamlet. 
33.     John  Marshall. 
34.     Thomas  Foster. 
35.      Will-"  Tiry. 
3G.      Thomas  Paine. 
37.     Golden  More. 
38.     Ralph  Hill. 
39.      William  French. 
40.     John  Trull. 
41.      Samuel  Kemp. 
42.     James  Kidder. 
43.      Henery  Jeiifs. 
"It  was  agreed  that  John  Trull's  allotment  in  y*^  above  named 
meadow  should  be  put  out,  Because  he  had  above  his  just  pro- 
portion in  
heeth  brook  meadow." 
This  division  included  about  fort}'  acres.  Mr.  Danforth  was  to 
divide,  measure,  "make  a  plott  of,  and  record  the  whole,"  for  fort}' 
and  two  shillings  ;  and  persons  concerned,  who  did  not  "seasonably 
attend"  to  the  laying  out  of  their  own  lots,  were  to  pay  "niuepence 
a  person  to  those  that  do  y"  work." 
This  account  of  the  distribution  of  lands  in  Billerica,  in  the 
beginning,  would  be  far  from  complete  without  notice  of  the  large 
grants  and  farms,  held  under  Cambridge  titles,  in  the  south-east  part 
of  the  town.  The  largest  of  these  was  the  farm  reserved  by  the 
Church  in  Cambridge  for  its  special  use,  when  it  permitted  the  whole 
town  to  assume  practical  possession  of  the  larger  part  of  Shawshin. 
It  consisted  of  seven  hundred  acres  lying  north  of  the  Woburn  Road, 
and  extended  from  Woburn  line  to  the  south-east  line  of  Mr.  Hart's 
land  on  the  west.  Its  north-east  line  may  still  be  seen  west  of  the 
river,  a  distinct  ditch  and  ridge,  with  a  wall  in  some  places,  which 
two  hundred  and  twenty  j-ears  have  not  made  even  obscure.     Here 
 - 62 - 
LAND    DISTRIBUTION.  41 
John  Parker  lived,  certainly  foremost  in  many  respects  among  the 
earliest  settlers. 
The  remainder  of  the  thousand  acres  constituting  the  Church 
Farm  was  located  north  of  Fox  Hill,  and  took  name  from  that  fact 
as  "Fox  Farm."  Mr.  Daniel  bought  both  parts.  He  subsequently 
sold  the  larger  part  to  Richardson  and  Walker,  and  the  Fox  Farm 
to  Joseph  Davis,  in  whose  family  the  place  remained  for  about  one 
hundred  and  fifty  3'ears. 
North-east  of  the  Church  Farm,  down  the  Shawshin,  and  mostly 
on  the  east  side  of  it,  was  the  College  Farm.  Our  Records  do  not 
describe  its  bounds  ;  but  a  plan,  by  Danforth,  is  preserved  in  the 
archives  of  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Societ}-.  Whether  it 
formed  a  part  of  the  grant  to  President  Dunster,  or  was  an 
independent  grant  to  Harvard  College,  does  not  appear.  It  was 
sold  about  1750  to  William  Gleason. 
In  the  other  direction,  above  the  Church  Farm,  and  with  the 
same  extent  east  and  west,  was  the  farm  of  five  hundred  acres, 
granted  to  Deacon  Edward  Collins,  and  sold  by  him  to  Elder 
Champney.  It  was  occupied  till  1669  by  his  son  Samuel,  who  sold 
it  to  Richard  Daniel  ;  and  it  was  here  that  Mr.  Daniel  lived, 
south  of  the  Woburn  Road,  near  Shawshin  River.  Above  this 
farm,  President  Henr^'  Dunster,  of  Harvard  College,  had  another 
five-hundred-acre  farm,  which  he  sold,  10  May,  1655,  to  Francis 
and  John  W^'man,  of  Woburn,  for  one  hundred  pounds  ;  and 
bej^ond  was  Daniel  Gookin's  grant  of  five  hundred  acres,  near 
the  mouth  of  Vine  Bi-ook,  and  mostly  east  of  the  river.  Mr. 
Mitchel,  pastor  of  the  Cambridge  Church,  had  also  a  five-hundred- 
acre  grant  south-east  of  Gookin.  All  these  grants,  except  Mr. 
Mitchel's,  bound  on  Woburn  line;  and  this  reached  "somewhat 
above  the  falls,"  in  Bedford.  Be^'ond  was  the  three-hundred-acre 
farm  of  Edward  Oakes,  sold  by  him  in  1661  to  George  Farley, 
and  the  Ralph  Hills,  father  and  son.  This  probably  reached  the 
Concord  line.  Another  farm  known  as  the  Oakes  Farm  consisted 
of  one  hundred  and  fifty  acres,  given  to  Captain  Gookin  in  exchange 
for  his  lot  on  the  Township,  and  by  him  sold  to  Thomas  Oakes. 
It  included  the  Bedford  Springs.  West  of  all  these  was  Job  Lane, 
who  coming  from  Maiden  had  purchased,  2  August,  1664,  Governor 
Winthrop's  large  grant  (already  described)  of  his  grandson,  Fitz 
John  Winthrop,  of  Connecticut,  and  lived  probably  at  the  Duttou 
place. 
 - 63 - 
42  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
Billerica  had  also  certain  land-grants  and  dealings  beyond  her 
own  bounds  which  furnish  an  important  chapter  of  her  earl}'  history. 
The  small  grants  which  Cambridge  had  made  in  the  bounds  of 
Shawshin,  numbering  more  than  one  hundred  and  embracing  ten 
thousand  acres,  were  found  not  easy  to  dispose  of  in  a  way  that 
would  not  embarrass  the  settlement.  They  were  not  valuable  and 
attractive  enough  to  draw  many  of  these  Cambridge  families  here  to 
occupy  them  ;  but  the  owners  would  naturally-  seek  to  make  as  good 
a  sale  of  them  as  they  could.  While  these  rights  .were  thus  held  in 
suspense,  the  chance  that  they  might  be  enforced  in  some  unwelcome 
form  would  embarrass  the  measures  of  the  settlers,  and  make  the 
rights  in  Billerica  less  attractive  to  persons  who  might  otherwise 
purchase  and  settle  here  As  a  measure  of  relief  from  this  difficulty, 
application  was  made  to  the  General  Court  for  a  grant  of  lands 
elsewhere,  which  met  with  tavor,  as  follows:  —  " 
"In  ans""  to  the  peticon  of  the  inhabitants  of  Billirrike3%  tills  Court 
doth  graunt  the  toune  of  Billirrikey  eight  thousand  acres  of  lands,  for  the 
ends  desired,  in  any  place  or  places  that  are  fFree.  &  not  capeable  of 
making  a  toune,  provided  that  the  sajd  lands  be  laid  out  before  the  next 
Court  of  Election,  and  that  the  inhabitants  of  Caiubridg  doe  accept  thereof 
&  disingage  the  lands  desired  at  Billirikey,  &  also  that  the  toune  of 
Billirrikey  be  seted  w"^  twenty  familyes  at  least  w^'in  three  yeares, 
yt  the  ordinances  of  God  may  be  setled  &  encouraged  in  the  sajd  place  of 
Billirikey;  &  it  is  ordered,  y*  Majo"^  Willard,  Cap'.  Edw.  Johnson,  Mr. 
Edward  Jackson,  or  any  two  of  them,  w"'  Thomas  Danforth,  or  any  other 
surveyor,  shall  lay  y"  same  out  at  the  peticoners  charge,  making  retourne 
to  the  next  Court  of  Election." 
Jonathan  Danforth,  the  j-ounger  brother  of  Thomas,  was  not  then 
as  well  known  to  the  General  Court  as  he  became  in  later  3'ears,  and 
to  him  fell  the  task  of  locating  this  eight  thousand  acres.  Beyond 
Chelmsford  he  had  the  whole  Merrimack  Valley  to  choose  from, 
or  even  the  Connecticut  and  Champlain  Valley's,  if  it  had  suited 
Billerica's  profit  to  go  so  far.  The  survey  which  Ire  made,  and 
returned  through  the  above  Committee,  on  which  the  location  was 
finall}'  sanctioned,  is  fortunately  still  preserved,  in  the  office  of  the 
Secretar}-  of  State  ; ^   and  on  this  authority  some  facts  long  forgotten 
have  recently  come  to  light,  and  we  are  able  to  reclaim  our  own. 
As  described  and  approved  by  the  Court,'  it  was  located  as  follows  : 
«  Colonial  Records.    Vol.  IV,  Part  i,  
p.  2G9. 
<>  
Ancient  Maps  and  Plans.    Vol.11.    Index:   "Billerica." 
'  Colonial  Records.    Vol.  IV,  Part  i,  
p.  302. 
 - 64 - 
LAND   DISTRIBUTION.  43 
"Layd  out  to  the  vse  of  the  inhabitants  of  Billirrikey,  eight  thousand 
acres  of  land,  lying  vpon  Menemacke  Riuer,  on  both  sides  thereof,  taking 
in  the  trucking  hovvse  now  inhabitted  by  J"o.  Cromwell,  the  sajd  land  being 
lajd  out  about  sixe  thousand  three  hundred  acres,  on  the  East  side  the 
riuer,  and  about  seventeene  hundred  and  fivety  acres  on  the  west  side  the 
sajd  riuer,  and  is  bounded  by  the  wildemes  surrounding  the  same,  as  is 
demonstrated  by  a  plott  thereof,  taken  and  made  by  Jonathan  Danforth. 
survejor,  and  exhibbited  to  this  Court  by  Major  Symon  Willard  and  Cap'. 
Edward  Johnson,  appointed  by  this  Court,  Octob.  14,  1656,  to  lay  out  the 
same. 
'■•  
Symon  Willard. 
•"Edward  Johnson." 
"The  Court  allowes  &  approoves  of  the  retourne  of  these  co'"issioners 
in  reference  to  the  land  herein  expressed.  —  1657,  May  IS." 
This  survey  was  the  earliest  ever  made,  it  is  safe  to  say,  in  the 
Merrimack  Valley'  beN'ond  Chelmsford,  and  is  the  starting  point  in 
the  history  of  Dunstable.  The  location  was  in  a  part  of  the  valley 
commonly  called  Naticook,  but  which  Danforth  spells  "Naticott." 
The  name  was  derived  from  a  little  brook  which,  according  to  Fox,* 
comes  into  the  Merrimack  on  the  west,  "just  above  Thornton's 
ferry."  The  grant  began  at  the  Penichuck  Brook,  which  forms  the 
north  bound  of  Nashua,  and  extends  on  the  west  of  the  river  as 
far  north  as  the  Souhegan  River.  Then  it  follows  the  Merrimack 
nearly  a  mile,  passing  two  islands,  the  larger  of  whi(!h  received  the 
surveyor's  name  "Jonathan,"  then  runs  eastward  two  or  three  miles 
and  southward  five  or  six,  returning  to  its  starting  point.  This 
Naticott  grant  remained  for  a  year  in  the  hands  of  Billerica,  when 
John  Parker  received  authority  to  dispose  of  it.     (Grants,  page  7.) 
''9th,  6m.,  1658.  It  is  jointly  agreed  by  vs,  the  Inhabitance  of 
Billerica,  That  John  Parker  hath  given  to  him  (by  the  towne)  full  power  to 
make  sale  and  give  assurance  of  that  eight  thousand  acres  of  land  granted 
to  us,  and  for  our  use,  by  the  Ilono'^'i  Generall  Court,  which  land  lyeth  at 
Natticott,  upon  merimack  River.  And  we  do  hereby,  fully,  clearly,  and 
absolutely  give  up  our  whole  interest,  right,  and  title  in  the  same  unto  the 
aforesaid  John  Parker,  to  make  sale  of  and  dispose  of  as  he  shall  see  good 
for  himself  &  his  assigns.  Provided  always,  that  the  aforesaid  John  Parker 
shall  purchase,  for  ye  vse  &  behoofe  of  the  Towne  of  Billerica  aforesaid, 
all  the  severall  lotts,  to  the  valine  of  eight  thousand  acres,  (granted  by  the 
towne  of  Cambridge  to  their  inhabitance,)  which  grants  are  already  entered 
in  their  towne  booke,  which  land  lyeth  within  the  bounds  and  limits  of  our 
towne.     *     *     And  in  case  any  of  ye  proprietors  of  the  aforesaid  alotinents 
*  Dunstable,  p.  10. 
 - 65 - 
4-4  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
shall  rofiise  to  sell  or  give  them,  then  the  said  John  shall  returne  vnto  the 
towne  of  IJillerica  six  pence  per  acre  for  so  maiiy  acres  as  shall  remain 
unpiirchiised,  to  y^  valine  of  (or  short  of  the  number  of)  eight  thousand 
acres,  which  money  shall  remain  to  Public  Towne  use.'" 
Fourtoon  names  are  subscribed  :  Jonathan  Dauforth,  William 
French,  Samuel  Chamne,  Ralph  Hill,  Sen.,  John  Baldwin,  John 
Rogers,  Sen.,  Ralph  Hill,  Jun.,  George  Farley-,  Henery  Jciffs, 
Willm.  Patten,  AVill'"  C'hamberline,  John  Sternes,  John  Marshall, 
John  Shildon. 
A  month  later  Parker  had  sold  the  land,  and  agrees  with  the 
town  as  follows  : — 
^'  [  
?]  day  of  the  7"'  month,  1G58. 
"This  jDresent  Writing  witnesseth.  that  I.  John  Parker,  doe  hereby 
jugadge  to  purchase  &  clere  y^  severall  lotts  to  y''  valine  of  8.000  acors, 
belonging  to  Cambridge,  Lying  in  o''  Towne  boundes,  viz'.,  of  y^  Towne  of 
Billerica,  excepting  y''  farmes  Lying  on  Shawshin  River,  and  the  farmes 
given  by  Cambridge,  to  the  two  brothers,  the  Okses,  y'  is  to  say,  Edward 
&  Thomas  Okes,  for  &  in  consideration  of  the  su'"  of  two  Hundred  pounds 
I'eceived  by  me  of  Mr.  William  Brenton  for  the  8,000  acors  of  land  granted 
to  the  aforesaid  Towne  of  Billericay.  Lying  at  Xaticot  ;  which  was  given 
to  o''  Towne  of  Billericay  by  the  Genrall  Courte,  for  the  disingadging  of 
the  Lands  aforesaide  ;  and  I,  y<^  said  John  Parker,  doe  also  ingadge  to  bare 
all  the  charges,  past  or  shall  be,  for  Laying  out  the  8,000  acors,  or  any  the 
charges  concernhig  the  purchasing  the  said  Lotts,  and  also  to  be  by  me 
procured  a  deed  of  sale  for  the  use  and  in  the  behoofe  of  the  towne  of 
Billericay  aforesaid,  acording  to  the  Law  of  the  Countrj'^  ;  and  what  lands 
shall  appear  not  to  be  clered,  by  gift  or  sale,  from  the  said  inhabitantes  of 
Cambridge  to  y^  Number  aforesaid,  I  doe  promise  to  returne  to  the  towne 
and  for  the  towne's  use,  6p.  p""  an  acor,  for  so  many  acors  as  shall  appear 
not  to  be  assurance  made  of,  as  aforesaid  ;  for  performance  of  the  same,  1 
doe  hereby  binde  myselfe,  my  heires,  and  Assignes,  to  o"^  Towne  aforesaid, 
firmlj'  bjr  these  presents.  Witness  my  hand  the  day  and  yeare  above 
Written. 
"John  Parker."' 
'■2:5:1000.  The  town  did  order  John  Parker  to  bring  in  an  account 
to  the  town  concerning"  [remainder  tcora]." 
William  Brenton,  who  bought  the  Naticott  land  of  Billerica, 
was  a  Boston  merchant  and  leading  business  man  :  often  one  of 
the  Selectmen.  He  removed  soon  after  this  date  to  Rhode  Island, 
and  Avas  Governor  of  thai  Colon}'  in   1GG6-8,  and  died  in   1674. 
»  
The  above  original  agreement  with  Parker  has  been  preserved,  and  was  recently 
discovered,  as  a  loose  slip,  in  the  First  Volume  of  Billerica  Records. 
 - 66 - 
LAND    DISTRIBUTION.  45 
Litchfield,  which  was  taken  from  Dunstable  and  incorporated  in 
1724,  was  known  as  "Brenton's  Farms."  John  Farmer  surmised 
that  he  had  an  earl}-  grant  of  land  there,  and  other  writers  have 
accepted  the  theory  and  repeated  it  as  history.  Our  Records  have 
fortunately  preserved  the  true  account  of  the  matter  and  demonstrate 
that  the  Naticott  grant,  the  earliest  in  New  Hampshire  west  of 
Rockingham  County,  was  made  to  Billerica. 
One  circumstance  connected  with  the  Naticott  grant  is  interesting, 
and  may  be  noticed  here,  "The  trucking  howse  now  inhabitted  by 
John  Cromwell"  was  fonnd  by  Danforth,  when  making  his  surve}'  in 
the  winter  of  1 656-7,  just  above  Thornton's  Ferry,  on  the  west  of 
the  river,  and  is  entered  there  on  his  plot  returned  to  the  Court. 
These  houses  for  trade  with  the  Indians,  pushed  on  beyond  the  line 
of  settlements,  were  a  feature  of  the  early  life  of  New  England. 
Pro])abh'  our  niA'sterious  Shawshin  House  belongs  to  this  class. 
But  the  man  who  lived  at  Naticott  in  1G56  must  have  been  much 
the  earliest  J^nglish  inhabitant  of  all  that  part  of  New  Hampshire, 
and  as  Billerica  found  him  there  she  owes  recognition  to  his  memory. 
Tradition  has  been  busy  with  his  name,  but  as  some  of  the  reports 
have  been  wide  of  the  truth,  we  ma}'  suspect  others  are  fabulous. 
The  tale  has  been  that  he  had  a  house  first  in  Tj-ngsborough  and 
later  at  Thornton's  Ferr}'  ;  that  in  his  Indian  traffic  he  used  his 
liaud  and  foot  for  weights,  incurring  the  hate  of  the  red  men,  until 
they  came,  burnt  his  house,  and  would  have  killed  him  ;  but,  getting 
a  hint  of  their  coming,  he  just  escaped,  before  his  flight  burying 
money  and  treasure,  which  was  foinid  many  3'ears  after  in  Tjngs- 
borough  ;    all  which  has  been  said  to  be  "as  early  as  I660." 
The  facts  which  are  proved  are,  that  Cromwell  was  living  at 
Thornton's  Ferrj'  in  1656  ;  and  that,  two  or  three  3'ears  later,  he 
purchased  of  Capt.  Edward  Johnson  a  grant  of  three  hundred 
acres  of  land,  made  to  him  in  1658,  and  situated  just  north  of  the 
Nacook  or  Howard  Brook  in  Tyngsborough.  To  this  place  Cromwell 
removed,  built  a  house  large  for  the  time  and  had  a  large  store, 
but  soon  died  in  1661.  His  inventor}',  in  the  handwriting  of  John 
Parker,  is  preserved.  It  was  taken  in  January,  1661-2,  and 
embraces  household,  farming,  and  trading  stock,  such  as  suggest 
no  lecent  Indian  raid,  and  could  hardly  have  been  gathered  there 
save  b}'  a  wealthy  madman,  which  he  plainly  was  not,  in  the  fixce 
of  danger  of  such  attack.  Any  later  discovery  of  buried  treasure 
cannot  be  used  to  reproach  his  memory,  for  he  died  in  his  bed,  and 
 - 67 - 
46  HISTORY    OF    BILLERicA. 
would  not  have  left  his  widow  in  need  of  it,  to  mortgage  and  loose 
the  place  there,  as  she  was  compelled  to  do.  His  wife  was  Salome, 
daughter  of  William  Batcheller,  of  Charlestown,  and  he  left  two 
sons,  John  and  Benjamin,  and  a  daught?r,  Rebecca,  who  were  living 
in  1702.  It  is  not  certain  that  Cromwell  was  a  model  Puritan  ;  but 
the  case  against  his  memor}'  is  shadow}-,  and  he  is  entitled  to  the 
benefit  of  the  doubt.  He  was  an  active,  enterprising  man,  as  the 
pioneer  at  that  da}-  in  the  Merrimack  Valley  needed  to  be.  The 
"l30und  weight"  stor}-  is  charged  to  various  men,  and  more  than 
doubtful  in  any  case  ;  and  it  is  not  clear  that  John  Cromwell  is  not 
entitled  to  honorable  remembrance,  or  that  he  brought  any  reproach 
upon  the  great  famil}-  name  which  he  bore. 
The  result  of  Parker's  negotiations  with  the  Cambridge  propri- 
etors took  shape  in  an  instrument  known  in  the  Records  (p.  137) 
as  "our  great  deed."  I  quote,  omitting  technical  and  immaterial 
portions  : — 
10 
"BILLERICA: 
"  DEED  OF  THEIR  TOWNE   FROM   CAMBRIDGE   PROPRIETORS. 
"We  whose  names  are  subscribed,  for  sundry  good  consideracons.  vs 
thereunto  moving,  and  for  valluable  consideracon  to  us  respectively  payd  * 
have  sold  *  vnto  the  Inhabitants  of  Billerica  *  *  and  such  others 
as  shall  from  time  to  time  be  by  them  admitted  as  free  denizens  of  the  said 
place.  &  to  the  enjoyment  of  the  priviledges  thereof,  all  o""  respective  rights 
&  interest  therein  or  vnto  any  part  or  parcell  of  the  said  land,  now  called 
bj-  the  name  of  Billerica,  al^  Shawshin  *  *  (only  excepting  &  reserving 
our  Joynt  &  respective  interests  that  any  of  us  have  in  the  farme,  whei'ein 
John  Parker  now  dwelleth.  eo"'only  called  by  the  name  of  the  Churches 
farme,  i.  
e.,  the  church  at  Cambridge,  with  free  liberty  on  all  the  co"'ons  of 
the  said  place,  for  the  Inhabitants  on  the  said  farme,  fi-om  time  to  time,  for 
herbage,  timber,  &  firewood,  as  any  other  of  the  Inhabitants,  and  a  Joynt 
intei-est  therein,  together  with  the  said  Towne  and  inhabitants  thereof). 
To  have  &  to  hold  *  *  Provided  alwmjs,  this  instrum'  is  to  be  vnderstood 
of  every  man's  engagem'  to  be  only  for  &  in  the  behalfe  of  himselfe,  his 
own  heires  *  *  &  no  further  or  other.  In  witness  whereof  wee  have 
put  to  o''  hands  and  seals  this  25th  day  of  March,  Anno  Dom.  165(?)." 
The  last  figure  is  lorn  off  in  the  original,  but  should  probably 
be  ''9."  The  Deed  was  not  recorded  until  1G71,  and  it  must 
be  a  slip  of  the  recorder's  pen  which  makes  the  year  1650.  One 
of  the  signers,  Martha  Bradshaw,  did  not  acquire  that  name  by 
•0  Parchment  Deed  in  Town  Archives. 
 - 68 - 
LAND    DISTRIBUTION.  47 
her  marriage  until  1665,  and  it  is  probable  that  several  years  passed 
before  all  these  signatures  were  obtained.  The  names  of  the  signers 
ma}-  be  found  on  pages  13  and  14,  being  those  not  starred  in  the 
list  there  given. 
One  other  important  grant  to  Billeriea  enters  into  our  early 
history.  In  the  Records  of  the  General  Court  for  1661,  Ma}'  22, 
we  find  the  following  : — 
''In  ans""  to  the  petition  of  the  inhabitants  of  Billerikey,  the  Court, 
having  considered  of  this  peti<=on.  together  with  the  petii^on  of  Mr.  Deane 
Winthrope  for  laying  out  the  lands  graunted  his  mother.  &  being  certainly 
informed  that  the  toune  of  Billerikey  is  a  hopeful  plantation,  &  that  they 
have  &  doe  encourage  &  mainteine  the  ministry  amongst  them,  &  have 
waded  thr"  many  difficultjes  in  purchasing  nmch  of  theire  land.  &  never 
had  so  much  as  one-third  part  of  lands  graunted  them  by  this  Court,  as 
other  villages  inferio''  to  them  have  had,  doe  therefore  graunt  the  sajd 
toune  fower  thousand  acres  of  land,  in  such  place  or  places  where  they 
can  find  it  w^'in  this  jurisdiction,  for  the  redemption  of  the  sajd  lands, 
provided  it  shall  not  pjudice  a  plantation  or  any  former  graunt;  &  that 
Cap'.  Edward  Johnson,  Thomas  Addams,  w"'  Jonathan  Danforth,  surveyo™, 
be  appointed  to  lay  it  out  &  make  retume  to  the  next  Court  of  Elections." 
The  disposition  which  Billeriea  made  of  this  four  thousand  acres 
was  as  follows  {Grants,  pp.  3  and  11)  : — 
''They  do  grant  to  him,  y^  said  Jonath.  Danforth,  with  his  father-in- 
law.  John  Parker  *  *  joyntly  and  together,  one  thousand  acres  of  land 
in  the  wilderness,  which  land  is  part  of  that  4,000  acres  which  was 
granted,"  etc.  *  *  ''on  condition  that  they  the  aforesaid  John  &  Jonath. 
shall  be  at  all  cost  &  charges  in  and  about  discovering  &  laying  out  of  the 
whole  4,000  acres,"  etc. 
"They  do  grant  to  *  *  John  Parker  3,000  acres  of  land  more,  which 
was  y«  remainder  of  that  4,000  acres  formerly  spoken  of,  all  which  lyeth 
up  &  downe  in  the  wildernesse  *  *  for  &  in  consideration  of  forty 
pounds  sterling,  which  the  said  John  was  to  pay  to  Mr.  Sanmel  Whiting, 
our  minister,  &  for  satisfaction  in  full  for  charges  due  to  y^  said  John 
about  building  of  our  meeting  house.  And  also  upon  the  validdity  of  this 
grant,  the  said  John  Parker  *  *  stands  bound  &  ingaged  to  the  Towne 
of  Billeriea,  that  he  *  *  shall  purchase  &  i^rocure,  in  the  behalf  of  & 
for  the  use  of  the  Towne  *  500  acres  of  land  &  upward,  lying  on  the 
West  of  Concord  river,  that  is  to  say,  that  wholl  farme  which  was  some- 
time in  
y*"  possession  of  Mr.  Thomas  Weld,  of  Eoxbury  *  *  and  make 
it  sure  to  them  according  to  law." 
This  four-thousand-acre  grant  was  thus  used  to  secure  for 
Billeriea  three   things  :     Two-thirds   of  Mr.    Whiting's   salary   for 
 - 69 - 
48  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
the  year  1662;  the  completion  of  then-  first  meeting-house;  and 
a  good  title  to  the  Weld  Farm  of  five  hundred  and  thirty  acres 
of  land,  which  la}'  along  the  Concord  River  on  the  west  side, 
beginning  nearly  opposite  the  Two  Brothers. 
Of  this  four  thousand  acres,  one  thousand  were  given  to  Danforth 
and  Parker  for  expense  of  discover}^  and  survey  of  the  remainder. 
The  Records  of  the  Court  do  not  show  where  this  land  was  located. 
.  
The  remaining  three  thousand  acres  were  located  in  three  places. 
The  first  and  largest  fraction  was  in  what  became  Dunstable.  The 
description  of  it  is  found  in  the  deed  to  Thomas  Brattle,  executed 
1662,  Jul}'  16,  and  signed  by  John  Parker,  Jonathan  Danforth,  and 
Thomas  Henchman,  of  Chelmsford.  They  sell  "1,600  acres  more 
or  less,"  and  "in  the  wilderness  on  the  west  side  Merrimack  river, 
upon  forrest-field  hill  and  Salmon  brooke,  beginning  at  the  South 
west  corner  of  Mr.  Samuel  Cole's  last  grant,  &  is  bounded  by  him 
on  the  east."  [His  farm  of  four  hundred  acres  was  on  Merrimack 
River,  at  and  be3'ond  T3ngsborough  depot.]  "Edward  Cowell's 
farm  South  west,"  [which  consisted  of  two  hundred  acres  and  began 
at  Mashapoag  Pond,]  "and  elsewhere  by  marked  trees."  Thomas 
Brattle,  the  purchaser,  was  a  leading  Boston  merchant,  and  one 
of  the  wealthiest  men  in  the  Colony.  His  son,  Thomas,  was 
Treasurer  of  Harvard  College  and  founder  of  Brattle  Street  Church. 
The  father  was  the  first  signer  of  the  petition  in  1673  for  the 
incorporation  of  Dunstable.  Like  Brenton  he  has  also  been  credited 
with  a  "grant"  of  his  large  farm  in  Dunstable,  and  the  fact  that  it 
was  originall}'  Billerica  land  has  been  forgotten.  AVhen  he  procured 
a  deed  from  the  Indians,  as  he  did  in  1671,  confirming  his  title,  the 
tract  is  said  to  contain  two  thousand  acres.  It  included  the  present 
village  of  Dunstable. 
The  second  part  of- this  grant  was  located  as  follows  : —  " 
"•1663,  6,. Tune. 
"Lajd  out  to  the  toune  of  Billirrikey  one  parcell  of  land  conteining 
eight  hundred  acres,  more  or  lesse,  lying  in  the  wildernesse  on  the  north 
side  of  Merreniacke  Bluer,  begining  at  the  southeast  angle  of  Mr.  Dummers 
farme  &  being  bounded  vpon  him  twenty  two  pole;  also  bounded  by 
Mr.  Webb's  furnie  (which  joynes  to  hhn  there)  thirty  five  pole  (vpon  his 
northeast  corner)  westward.  &  sixty  fower  pole  southward  ;  from  thence 
it  runns  In  a  long  sprulsc  swamp,  about  half  a  point  northward  of  the  east, 
fower  hundred  &  <'ight  pole ;  then  rufiing  in  a  strelght  Ijne  from  thence  to 
Long  Pond  ;   
being  i)artly  bounded  by  that  pond  and  partly  by  Mr.  Batters 
1'  Colonial  Records.    Vol.  IV,  Part  ii,  p.  79. 
 - 70 - 
LAND    DI8TKIBUTION.  49 
fanne  at  this  end  of  the  pond,  which  line,  in  all,  is  fiue  handled  &  fower 
pole ;  from  thence  it  runnes  almost  due  west  to  another  pond,  called  by  the 
Indians,  Mascuppet,  vnto  a.  great  rocke,  called  by  the  English.  Tray  Table 
Rocke;  on  the  northwest  it  is  bounded  by  Mascuppet  Pond  and  another 
little  pond  vntill  you  come  to  Mr.  Dumer's  line,  wliere  wee  began,  all  which 
is  more  fully  demonstrated  by  a  plott  taken  of  the  same.  This  eight 
hundred  acres  is  part  of  the  fower  thousand  w'^''  was  lately  graunted  to  the 
toune  of  Billirikey,  &  there  remains  ordy  fiue  Imndred  yet  to  lay  out  to  the 
whole  graunt. 
"•  By  Jonathan  Daj^forth.^ Surveyor. 
Edward  Johnson. 
Tho:  Addams. 
•'The  Court  allowes  of  this  retourne.'' 
Mascuppet  Pond  is  called  Tyug's  Pond  on  the  modern  maps  ; 
and  this  location  can  be  easil}'  traced  in  the  west  part  of  Dracut, 
including  a  portion  of  Tyngsborough.  When  and  to  whom  this 
land  was  sold,  I  have  not  discovered. 
The  rem^jining  five  hundred  'acres  were  located  by  the  General 
Court,  as  follows:  —  '^ 
"1667.  Oct.  9. 
'"Lajd  out  to  Billirrica  fiue  hundred  acres  of  land  in  the  wildernesse, 
on  the  north  side  of  Merremack  Riuer  &  on  the  East  side  of  Beavar  Brook, 
a  little  below  Patuckett.  It  is  bounded  on  the  south  &  on  the  southeast 
wholly  by  lands  formerly  graunted  to  Richard  Russell.  Esq.,  and  on  the 
west  by  the  aforesaid  Beavar  Brook,  elsewhere  by  the  wildernesse.  The 
line  on  the  east  side  of  it  is  one  hundred  ninety  sixe  pole  in  length,  ruriing 
halfe  a  point  westward  of  the  north  w*=''  is  exactly  the  continuance  of  the 
long  line  on  the  east  side  of  Mr.  RusselFs  farm  ;  also  both  the  lines  on  the 
north  side  of  it  are  exactly  paralell  to  the  lines  on  the  south  side  of  it,  the 
most  nortlierly  of  which  is  one  hundred  &  sixty  pole  long  &  runns  halfe  a 
point  westward  of  the  most  southwest  ;  tlie  other  lines  runns  two  degrees 
westward  of  the  southwest  &  by  south  fower  hundred  eighty  &  seven  pole, 
\v<:h  closeth  to  the  brook,  all  Avhich  are  sufficiently  bounded  by  markt  trees 
&  pillars  of  stone.  The  form  thereof  is  more  fully  declared  on  the  other 
side,  by  a  plott  taken  of  the  same. 
•'By  Jonathan  Danforth,  Surveyor. 
•'The  Court  allowes  and  approves  of  this  retourne  aboue  mentioned." 
Beaver  Brook  comes  into  the  Merrimack  from  the  north  in  Lowell  ; 
and  this  tract  of  five  hundred  acres  was  held  for  exchange  and  was 
at  last  exchanged  for  the  similar  "farm,"  on  the  west  side  of  the 
12  Colonial  Records.    Vol.  IV,  Part  ii,  p.  352. 
 - 71 - 
50  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
Concord  River,  which  had  been  early  granted  to  Reverend  Mr. 
Weld,  of  Roxbury.  This  farm  extended  down  the  river  from  the 
Allen  grant,  which  became  a  part  of  the  Blood's  farms.  Probably 
the  Weld  Farm  was  never  exacth'  located.  The  town  had  assumed 
possession  and  granted  portions  of  it  long  before  the  title  was  finally 
transferi'ed.  Parker's  death  occurred  before  he  had  completed  this 
part  of  his  engagement,  and  it  was  not  until  1694,  March  6,  that 
deeds  were  exchanged  with  Mr.  Palsgrave  Alcocke,  of  Roxbmy. 
who  then  held  the  Weld  Farm  title  ;  he  receiving  the  five  hundred 
acres  of  land  above  described.  Mr.  Alcocke  previousl}'  owned  the 
grant  of  sixteen  hundred  acres  to  Mr.  Russell,  which  laj-  between 
the  Billerica  land  and  Merrimack  River. 
It  appears  from  this  survey  of  Billerica's  ancient  possessions, 
that  the  villages  of  Bedford,  Carlisle,  Tewksbur^'  and  North  Tewks- 
bur}-,  Dunstable,  Merrimac,  and  Litchfield,  are  all  located  on  land 
which  once  belonged  to  this  town. 
 - 72 - 
CHAPTER    IV 
THE    STOKT    A;?    TOLD    LN"    THE    RECORDS. 
Thz  Records  of  Billerica  furnish  the  warp  and  much  of  the  woof 
of  its  history.  As  a  whole,  they  have  been  well  made  and  very 
well  preserved.  Their  publication  in  a  full  and  literal  transcript, 
for  at  least  the  first  hundred  years,  would  be  a  useful  contribution 
to  the  history  of  N'ew  England,  and  have  great  local  value.  To 
guard  against  the  possibility  of  future  loss,  the  town  would  be 
wise  in  printing  them,  and  it  is  perhaps  not  out  of  platv  here  to 
commend  this  important  question  to  the  intelligent  consideration 
of  its  citizens. 
During  the  early  years,  it  will  be  expedient  to  quote  the  Records 
extensively  :  and  a  description  of  these  volumes,  their  character  and 
contents,  may  properly  introduce  this  chapter. 
The  town  has  been  fortunate  in  the  services  of  intelligeut  aud 
careful  clerks.  Dauforth,  after  Parker,  was  clerk  for  twenty-one 
years,  1665-86.  aud  gave  character  to  the  system,  which  remained 
substantially  unchanged  for  two  hundred  years.  Few  records  made 
today  are  as  clear  and  easy  to  read  as  are  those  of  Dauforth. 
And  a  peculiarity  of  liis  method,  for  which  those  who  ct>usult  the 
Billerica  Records  may  be  grateful  to  his  foresight,  is  found  in  the 
separation  of  the  records  of  births,  marriages,  aud  deaths,  from 
those  of  current  towu  action,  and  their  ari-augemeut  in  special 
volumes  :  not  chronologically,  as  was  usually  the  case,  but  by 
families.  By  this  method,  with  the  aid  of  the  alphal>etical  index, 
the  record  of  any  family  as  far  as  it  was  made  can  l>e  found  fully 
and  immediately. 
These  Town  Records  consist  of : — 
I.  The  series  of  volumes  recordiuir  current  town  action. 
II.  Two  volumes  of  land-srauts. 
 - 73 - 
52  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
III.     Successive  volumes  of  births,  marriages,  and  deaths. 
Of  the  Records  proper,  Vokime  I  has  lost  its  binding  and  three 
leaves,  or  six  pages.  Fortunately',  the  first  leaf  has  been  preserved, 
the  missing  leaves  containing  pages  3-0  ;  but  portions  of  these 
pages  were  transferred  to  the  Book  of  Grants,  and  very  little  is 
reall}'  lost.  The  Reverse  of  Volume  I  contains  seventy-eight 
pages,  mostly  devoted  to  record  of  the  earliest  land-grants,  the 
substance  of  which  was  also  transcribed  in  the  volume  of  land- 
grants.  The  first  leaf,  or  two  pages,  of  this  Reverse  of  Volume  I 
is  missing,  and  we  have  no  clue  to  its  contents.  Pages  three,  six, 
and  seven,  of  the  Reverse,  are  specially  important,  as  they  contain 
Parker's  earliest  record  of  the  births,,  marriages,  and  deaths,  prior 
to  1660.  These  were  transcribed  by  Danforth  in  the  new  volume 
which  he  soon  after  began  ;  but  the  copy  contains  one  important 
error,  and  the  existence  of  this  earlier  authority  has  been  commonly 
overlooked.  .  
The  original  agreement  with  Mr.  Whiting  is  also  found 
on  page  4  of  the  Reverse;  a  cop}'  being  also  in  "Land-Grants," 
page  67. 
Volume  I  extends  to  1685  ;  Volume  II,  to  1706  ;  Volume  III,  to 
1749  ;    
Volume  IV,  to  1780  ;    and  Volume  V,  to  1796. 
All  these  volumes  except  the  first  are  substantially  bound,  and 
nothing  appears  to  have  been  lost  from  them.  For  more  than  a 
hundred  years  they  record  not  only  town  action,  but  also  that  of  the 
selectmen,  and  the  disbursements  of  the  treasurer.  The  tax-lists 
were  unfortunately  not  recorded  until  1733,  but,  after  that  date,  the 
series  is  continuous.  Prior  to  1733,  the  onl}'  list  which  has  been 
preserved  is  the  "minister's  rate"  of  1663. 
Two  volumes  are  occupied  with  land-grants.  The  first  Book  of 
Grants  was  prepared  by  Danforth  in  1665.  In  it,  he  was  instructed 
to  transcribe  all  previous  grants  which  had  not  become  void  ;  and, 
after  a  careful  examination  by  individuals,  it  was  ratified  hy  the 
town,  and  pronounced  authoritative.  All  later  grants  to  1685  were 
entered  in  this  volume,  which  is  mostly  in  Danforth's  fine  hand- 
writing, and  is  certainl}'  one  of  the  best  preserved  and  handsomest 
volumes  of  records,  two  hundred  years  old,  to  be  found.  The  Grants 
are  arranged  under  the  name  of  the  recipient,  and  the  alphabetical 
index  makes  it  easy  to  trace  the  possessions  of  each  inhabitant. 
The  volume  contains  also  the  "Whiting  agreement,"  descriptions  of 
the  more  important  carl}'  roads,  and  some  of  the  earl3'  covenants 
and  "standing  orders."     Volume  II  of  the  Land-Grants  continues 
 - 74 - 
THE    STORY    AS    TOLD    IN    THE    RECORDS.  53 
the  record  after  1685.  It  contains  a  larger  number  of  highway 
descriptions,  and  is  ahuost  entirely  in  the  good  handwriting  of 
Oliver  Whiting,  who  was  town  clerk  1704-23. 
The  third  series  consists,  prior  to  1850,  of  four  volumes,  con- 
taining "Births,  Marriages,  and  Deaths."  The  first  was  prepared 
by  Danforth  in  1665,  as  above  suggested,  and  continued  in  use  until 
about  1730.  But  in  the  later  j'ears,  after  1700,  the  number  of 
entries  falls  oflf,  in  a  way  which  suggests  that  the  record  was  much 
less  complete  than  it  had  been  while  Danforth  kept  it.  The  difficulty 
in  tracing  many  family  lines  during  this  period  strengthens  this 
probabilit}'  that  the  record  was  imperfect.  The  second  volume  was 
prepared  in  1730,  and  a  large  part  of  the  contents  of  Volume  I 
was  copied  in  it.  But  the  transcript  was  not  complete,  and  it  was 
probably  the  design  to  omit  all  femilies  the  representatives  of  which 
were  not  still  resident  in  town.  For  this  reason  the  Bedford  families 
do  not  appear. 
The  Third  Volume  came  into  use  about  1790  and  continued  until 
1844,  when  it  was  displaced  by  a  thin  volume,  used  for  ten  3'ears, 
following  the  chronological,  and  not  the  familj',  order.  In  1855, 
the  system  was  changed  again  by  the  State,  and  separate  volumes 
are  used  for  births,  marriages,  and  deaths,  each  with  a  second  index 
volume.  Whoever  has  occasion  to  trace  a  familj-  through  this 
period  must  explore  six  volumes,  and  if  his  experience  is  like  this 
compiler's,  he  will  sigh  for  the  simplicity  and  convenieiy:'e  of  the 
earlier  S3'stem  of  Danforth. 
The  earliest  record  is  as  follows.  A  few  words  obliterated  in  the 
margin  are  supplied  in  brackets. 
'^[?]  November,  1654. 
''Sertin  Orders  made  by  vs  the  present  inhabitantes  of  the  Towne  of 
Billericey,  for  y"  weall  of  y«  [town]  : 
''I'J'.  [That  wh]at  person  or  persons  soever  [shall]  propound  them- 
selves to  
be  [inhabi]tantes  ainongste  vs,  to  p'take  of  [the  pr]iviledges  of 
the  comons,  devitions  [of  la]ndes,  &c.,  if  not  known  to  vs,  he  or  they  shall 
bring  with  them  a  certificate  from  the  place  from  whence  they  come,  such 
a  testimony  as  shall  be  satisfactory  to  o""  towne,  or  select  pi'sons  of  the 
same,  before  they  shall  be  admitted  as  inhabitants  amongste  vs.  to  p'"take 
of  any  priviledges  as  aforesaid  with  vs;  and  after  their  Admission  they 
shall  subscribe  their  names  to  all  the  orders  of  the  Towne,  with  o'selves, 
y'  are  or  sliall  be  made  for  the  public  good  of  the  place,  as  also  foi-  baring 
vp  their  proportions  in  all  publique  charges,  in  Clun-cli,  Towne,  or  comon 
weall,  with  those  persons  that  came  vp  at  the  first,  and  so  shall  have  their 
priviledges  in  equall  proportion. 
 - 75 - 
54  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
'•2'>'.  Summering  Kattell.  Tli;it  no  person  whatsoever  that  hath  any 
propriety  in  tlie  place,  either  by  purchase,  Lease,  or  otlier  wayes,  sliall 
keepe  any  kattell  in  the  surainer  time  but  such  as  the  keepe  of  ther  o[wn] 
or  for  there  ovvne  use  with[out  the]  consente  of  the  Towne,  [any]  kattell 
so  taken  to  be  cepte  [not  according]  to  this  order,  he  or  they  shall  forfeit 
for  every  [offense]  shillings  to  be  payed  to  the  [town] . 
'"S'y.  Swine.  That  no  person  shall  keepe  any  [swine]  but  his  owne 
without  the  consente  [of]  the  towne  ;  and  every  swine  of  [one  year]  old 
and  upwards  shall  be  suffit[iently]  ringed  from  year  to  year,  and  every 
swine  that  goeth  [un-]  ringed  one  day  after  due  warninge  given  by  any 
Neibour,  he  shall  forfeit  [?]  pence,  y^  one-half e  to  the  Towne  and  the 
other  halfe  to  the  informer,  and  that  all  swine  that  goe  unyoaked  from  the 
first  of  April  to  the  last  of  .September  and  doe  damage,  they  shall  pay  for 
y^  damage  acordinge  to  Law. 
'''4"i.  Lots  to  be  inhabited  within  a  yere.  That  what  person  soever  takes 
up  any  accom Ida [tions]  in  this  place  for  propriety"     *     *     * 
"  Laying  out  his  house  lott "     *     *     * 
[The  remainder  of  this  paragraph  must  be  inferred  from  the  caption.] 
''  [I'y]  If  any  person  shall  leave  any  wood  or  Timber  lying  anywhere 
on  the  coman  Lande  above  the  full  time  of  twelve  months,  it  shall  be 
forfeit,  and  free  for  any  man  y'  is  an  inhabitant  to  take  [  
?]  for  his  owne 
use,  excepting  all  such  wood  or  timber  as  is  fallen  for  the  publique  use 
of  the  Towne. 
'•2'5.  It  is  ordered  that  if  any  man  fall  [any  wood]  or  timber  in  any 
p^t  of  the  comons  belonging  to  this  towne,  he  shall  pay  five  shillings  p'^  tree 
for  every  tree,  or  five  shillings  p''  Loade  every  Loade,  so  carried  away  into 
any  other  towne  boundes  to  lie  improved,  without  the  consente  of  the 
Towne. 
'•'3'y.  It  is  ordered  that  for  hoppoles.  if  any  person  doe  fall  any  on 
o'  comons,  as  aforesaide.  and  cary  or  sell  them  to  be  made  use  of  in  any 
other  towne,  as  aforesaide.  thev  shall  foi-feit  for  ever}'  hundred  of  poles  the 
sume  of  twenty  shillings  ;  all  which  forfetures  shall  be  taken  up  by  the 
constable  then  being,  from  time  to  time,  for  the  use  of  the  towne." 
"S;  Oniii  1658.  It  is  ordered  and  joyntly  agreed,  that  such  as  either 
haue  already  or  hereafter  shall  take  vp  any  Alotments  in  the  tonne  vpon 
grant  from  th""  toune  shall  be  equally  acomidated  with  those  vpon  Mr. 
Dudley's  farme,  no  person  exceeding  a  twelfth  pr'  of  the  saide  farme, 
which  is  one  hundred  and  thirteen  acors  of  vplande  and  twelve  acors  of 
meddow,  which  [is]  granted  a  ten  acor  Lott.  and  so  in  [proportion]  to 
others  that  haue  eight  or  six  [or  fiue]  acor  Lotts  :  the  inhabitants  that  doe 
[take  up]  alotments  of  the  toune  as  aforesaid  [shall  pay]  to  the  purchasers 
of  the  aforesaid  farme  of  Mr.  Dudley,  he  that  takes  vp  [ten]  acors  for  his 
house  lott  the  one  halfe  of  what  a  twelfth  p''t  of  the  said  farme  at  the  first 
did  cost  of  the  aforesaid  Mr.  Dudlej'  :  which  12">  p't  is  usually  called  a 
single  share  ;  which  pay  is  to  be  made  by  those  that  take  vp  ten  acors  for 
a  house  Lott,  as  aforesaid,  and  so  others  aeording  to  ther  proportions  and 
at  such  times  as  is  agreed  vpon  and  written  in  a  paper  written  the  day  and 
 - 76 - 
THE    STORY    AS    TOLD    IN    THE    RECORDS.  55 
yere  aboue  specified,  the  times  of  payment  is,  the  one  halfe  the  next  yere 
after  the  [alotment]  and  the  other  halfe  the  yere.  [after]  that  first  payment, 
in  corne  [  
?]  currant  and  merchantable." 
The  remainder  of  the  second  page  is  torn  off,  and  the  next  four 
pages  are  missing.  Page  seven  begins  with  the  following,  which  is 
numbered  "7,"  implying  that  it  is  one  of  a  series  of  "  orders."  The 
contents  of  the  first  six  orders  can  be  only  conjectured. 
'•[It  is  agreed  by  the  to^vn]  that  for  the  raysinge  publique  charges, 
shall  continue  in  the  way  we  are  at  present  in,  for  the  building  a  house  for 
a  minister  and  for  tlie  maintenance  of  a  minister,  that  is  acordinge  to 
o»'  severall  proportions -of  land  and  meadowes;  and  it  is  agreed,  that  all 
devitions  of  Lands  and  meadows  and  comons  and  all  other  priviledges  shall 
be  devided  and  layed  out  acordinge  to  o""  publique  charges  ;  also,  this  way 
of  i-ateing  shall  continue  without  alteration  vnlesse  it  be  don  by  the  joj-nte 
consente  of  the  whoU  inhabitants  :  and  the  devitions  in  comon  feilds  from 
time  to  time  shall  be  devided  bj^  Lott  for  propriety,  both  to  us,  the  present 
inhabitants,  and  also  to  all  others  y'  shall  hereafter  be  excepted  and 
entertained  as  inhabitants  amongst  vs.  But  for  such  farmes  as  doe  Ly 
within  the  boundes  of  o''  Towne  vnoccupied,  or  such  as  are  occupied  by 
non-residents,  shall  haue  no  priviledge  in  devitions  of  lands,  nor  comonage 
of  wood  and  Timber  and  feed  for  kattell  as  o'selves.  nor  be  rated  alike,  nor 
no  other  wayes  than  the  propriety  and  free  denizens  y*  are  inhabitants  shall 
agree.  And  it  is  furdi"  agreed,  y'  when  any  furder  Adition  of  meddows  be 
made  to  the  inhabitants,  or  any  of  them,  there  publique  charges  shall  be 
borne  vp  acordinge  to  the  former  proportions,  excepting  such  meddows  as 
are  made  by  any  person  out  of  swamp  or  other  wayes  that  is  not  granted 
by  the  Towne  [o6scM>-e]  meddows;  all  such  medows  so  [made]  are  freed 
from  all  publique  [charge  which]  consems  the  Towne." 
Agreements  eight  and  ten  relate  to  highwaj's,  and  are  quoted  in 
the  chapter  devoted  to  that  subject.  Agreement  nine,  on  page  8,  is 
this:  "It  is  ordered  that  no  proprietor  or  inhabitant  within  the 
boundes  of  our  Towne  shall  at  any  time  receiue  an}-  inmates  or 
Tenants  without  the  consent  and  approual  of  the  Townsmen,  he 
or  they  y'  shall  soe  do,  shall  forfeit  to  the  Towne  the  sume  of 
twenty  shill  p''  week  for  euerj-  person  so  receiued  &  entertained  as 
aforesaid."  [And  in  the  later  handwriting  of  Clerk  William  Tay, 
it  is  added:]  "And  euer}'  p'°  that  shall  inhabit  [  
?]  the  p''cincts 
of  the  town  w'out  the  Towns  consent  shall  forfeit  twent}'  shill  :  p'' 
weeke  for  euer}'  week  abiding  as  [  
?] "  
And  in  article  eleven,  "it  is  ordered  that  not  an}'  inhabitants  in 
this  towne  shall  turn  out  any  cattell  in  the  Springe  tyme  from  yere 
to  yere  without  a  keeper,  until  the  herd  goe  oute,  Leaste  he  thereby 
 - 77 - 
56  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
doe  damage  to  his  Neighbors  meddows."  Article  twelve  relates  to 
the  first  division  of  meadow  lands,  and  will  be  found  in  the  chapter 
on  that  sni)jcct. 
These  earliest  I'cc-ords  show  us  the  questions  which  the  town  had 
to  meet  at  the  beginning.  It  is  noteworthy  that  the  care  of  the 
fathers  for  the  character  of  those  who  were  to  make  homes  here 
inspires  their  first  record.  There  was  no  welcome  for  such  as  could 
not  l)ring  good  testimonials.  The  policy  was  that  of  the  towns 
generally,  and  it  was  not  illiberal  Init  wise.  If  the  doors  had  been 
open  in  our  New  England  towns  to  all  the  restless  and  unworthy 
adventurers  sure,  in  an  age  like  that  particularly',  to  seize  such 
opportunities,  the  evil  leaven  would  have  lowered  the  standard  of 
character  and  exposed  the  settlements  to  mischief,  if  not  shipwreck. 
And  the  fathers  did  not  wait  for  the  official  sanction  by  the  Court 
of  their  new  English  name  before  they  began  to  use  "  Billerica."  It 
stands  at  the  head  of  the  first  page  of  Records,  in  1G54,  and  in  the 
Boston  record  of  Danforth's  marriage.  22d  November  of  that  3'ear, 
it  also  appeared. 
In  1658,  when  Mr,  Whiting  came  to  Billerica,  he  found  twenty- 
five  families  in  town  ;  eleven  on  the  Township,  seven  on  the  Dudley 
Farm,  and  seven  elsewhere,  of  whom  but  one  was  north  of  the 
Township,  Paterson,  and  he  adjoined  it.  His  own  house  was  built, 
but  not  yet  finished  ;  the  meeting-house  was  not  begun.  There  was 
a  road  to  Woburn,  another  to  Concord,  one  to  Chelmsford,  and  one 
to  Andover  ;  whether  the  road  to  Cambridge  was  distinct  from  the 
Woburn  Road  west  of  the  Shawshin  is  very  doubtful.  These  roads 
were  little  more  than  paths  in  the  woods  ;  indeed  the  woixl  "path" 
is  not  infrequently'  applied  to  them  in  the  Records.  Fences  were 
not  yet  built,  and  the  care  of  cattle  and  swine  was  a  matter  of 
common  concern.  A  herd  in  the  care  of  a  keeper,  driven  out  in  the 
morning  and  home  at  night,  was  the  natural  convenience  of  their 
primitive  life.  Sometimes  the  herd  would  go  in  one  direction,  and 
then  in  another.  Fox  Ilill  and  its  western  slopes  long  furnished 
the  herd  a  range,  and  another  extensive  common  field  was  beyond 
North  Billerica. 
The  cai-e  of  the  common  lands  of  the  town  already  claimed 
attention.  Citizens  had  privileges  of  use  for  cutting  wood  and 
timber  and  feeding  "commonage,"  as  the  right  was  called;  but 
it  was  restricted  to  their  own  use,  and  unauthorized  traffic  was 
forbidden. 
 - 78 - 
THE    STORY    AS    TOLD    IN   THE    RECORDS. 
57' 
There  was  much  sun^eying  to  be  done  m  those  early  days.  The 
woods  and  meadows  would  be  carefully  explored  in  all  directions  for 
lots  and  ranges  likely  to  prove  most  valuable  and  convenient  ;  and 
it  gives  one  a  sense  of  weariness  to  sit  down,  with  the  book  of 
Land-Grants  in  hand,  aud  think  of  Danforth's  travel  and  toil  in 
running  the  thousands  of  lines  there  described.  For  his  services  in 
surveying,  plotting,  and  recording  the  several  lots  "drawn  by  the 
whole  inhabitants,"  the  town  agreed  with  Danforth,  "10:  9:  59," 
that  he  should  receive  two  and  one-half  pence  for  every  acre,  "to 
be  pa3-ed  vnto  him  out  of  y*  Towne  stock  collected  b}'  Rate,"  etc. 
It  needed  hardv,  courageous,  self-relying  men  and  women  to 
plant  homes  in  this  wilderness  ;  men  and  women  who  could  live 
happil}'  without  luxuries,  or  what  their  children  deem  conveniences, 
and  fertile  in  resource  to  suppl}'  their  own  necessities.  Such,  it 
is  plain,  were  these  Billerica  men.  They  had  discouragements, 
dangers,  hardships,  in  plenty,  but  they  were  of  too  sturdy  stuff  to 
surrender. 
While  they  were  laying  these  foundations,  thej'  were  watching 
with  keen  interest  the  course  of  events  in  Mother  England.  Those 
were  the  da3-s  of  the  Commonwealth,  which  enkindled  all  their 
Puritan  sympathies.  Cromwell's  own  name  of  Oliver  found  its  wa}', 
not  by  the  force  of  personal  admiration,  but  following  naturally  the 
line  of  family  relationship,  to  the  second  son  of  the  Billerica  pastor. 
Parker  and  Danforth  and  their  neighbors  would  often  talk  over,  by 
their  winter  fires,  the  latest  news  of  the  Protector's  policy  and 
battles,  and  were  thrilled  with  the  tidings  of  his  death  a  few  weeks 
after  Mr.  Whiting's  removal  to  the  town.  The  Commonwealth  in 
England  had  nowhere  more  earnest  friends  than  in  New  England. 
It  can  not  be  doubted  that  the  seed  then  sown  in  the  hearts  of 
the  fathers  bore  legitimate  fruit  a  century  later  in  the  American 
Revolution. 
The  building  of  the  minister's  house  and  the  raising  of  his  salary 
brought  heavier  common  expense,  and  a  collector  was  needed.  So, 
"11*  11""°  1658,"  John  Parker  was  empowered  "to  gather,  receiue, 
and  take  up  all  and  euery  p't  and  p'sell  of  the  severall  sumes  due 
vpon  the  rate  made  for  the  building  and  finishinge  A  house  for  A 
minister,  and  all  other  pay  that  is  or  shall  be  due  from*  any  of  the 
inhabitantes  or  an}'  other  proprietors  y'  are  non-resident,  as  is  or 
shall  be  by  him,  the  saide  John  Parker,  requested  to  receiue  and 
 - 79 - 
58  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
disburse  for  the  use  of  the  towu  as  aforesaid  ;  and  we  doe  also 
impower  the  saide  John  Parker  to  make  distress  vpou  the  goodes 
or  Landes  of  any  such  person  as  shall  refuse  to  pa3-  there  dues." 
The}-  promise  to  defend  him  in  any  suit  to  which  his  lawful  acts  in 
this  office  may  expose  him  ;  require  a  true  account  of  all  his  receipts 
and  disbursements  ;  and  undertake  to  make  good  any  deficienc}' 
if  his  authorized  pa3-ments  exceed  receipts.  This  agreement  bore 
at  first  the  signatures  of  the  inhabitants  ;  but  the  Record  does  not 
preserve  the  names. 
During  tlie  year  1659,  arrangements  for  building  a  meeting-house 
were  made,  as  elsewhere  related.  "Goodman  Shead  and  Goodman 
Kinsle}'  shall  have  HogTooten  Lett,  if  they  doe  desire  it"  ;  perhaps 
the  name  repelled  them,  and  they  did  not.  A  committee  are 
instructed  "to  ad  such  Lande  to  fox  hill  Lott  as  they  shall  see 
meet  for  the  incouraging  such  persons  as  shall  enjoy  the  same"; 
and  Goodman  Walsley  [  
?]  was  granted  ten  acres  of  land  to  set  a 
house  on,  "on  the  East  side  of  bare  hill,  leading  towards  Shawshin  ; 
also  he  is  granted  10  acors  of  medow"  ;  but  both  these  last  grants 
were  made  "null"  afterwards.  July  15,  Lieut.  William  French  was 
chosen  "Coihitioner  for  making  the  cuntry  rate  and  caring  in  a 
duplicate  to  }'*  shiere  meeting,  and  George  Farle}'  and  Jonathan 
Danforth  is  joyned  with  him  for  this  worke."  "John  Durante  is 
granted  ^  of  a  ten  acre  lot  of  uplande  to  set  a  hous  on,  and  it  is 
lefte  to  y^  comitee  y'  La^'s  out  all  other  Lots,  to  lay  it  out  where  is 
most  convenient  :  y"  it  was  determined  b}-  John  Durant  to  have 
y^  Land  next  Miles  Reding,  and  the  Towne  gi-anted  he  should  have 
y'  to  Will  Hail's."  Reding's  land  became  John  Brackett's  at  the 
"Corner,"  and  this  grant  to  Durant  embraced  the  present  homestead 
of  Mr.  Anthony  Jones.  A  grant  follows  to  Edward  Iron,  which 
became  a  nullity.  William  Sheldon  asked  that  the  committee  might 
view  a  piece  of  land  which  he  wished,  and  act  upon  his  request  as 
they  might  deem  ' '  
most  advantageous  to  the  publique "  ;  but  his 
petition  was  not  granted.  He  held  his  grant  on  condition  of 
building  "a  mill  to  grind  corn,"  and  in  1663  the  town  "  siezed 
the  forfeiture,"  the  condition  not  being  performed. 
"6  :  12  :  ^)\).  The  Town  doe  agree  that  there  shall  be  a  Towne 
meeting  for  the  wholl  inhabitants  the  first  second  day  in  euery  month 
from  time  to  time  ;  aud  all  those  that  are  y"  present  inhabitants  shall 
pay  [for  ?]  absence  one  shilling  ;    and  also  those  that  doe  meet  what 
 - 80 - 
THE    STORY    AS    TOLD    IN    THE    RECORDS.  59 
our  acts  shall  be  de[clared?]  shall  stand  as  vallid  acts,  and  the  fines 
shall  1)6  gathered  b}-  the  constable  then  l)eing  from  [time  to  tune?] 
and  shall  be  disposed  of  as  them  that  doe  meet  shall  see  cause,  and 
the  time  of  meeting  is  to  begin  about  the  sunn  one  our  and  a  halfe 
hy  ;  and  whosoever  is  Not  at  y^  meeting  [within  one  our  ?]  after  the 
time  set,  shall  pay  the  fine  vnlesse  he  can  giue  a  good  account  of  his 
being  absent."  There  would  be  murmurings  at  least  if  citizens  were 
now  fined  for  absence  from  a  monthly  town  meeting  ! 
The  first  record  of  Town  officers  appointed  is  made  in  March, 
1659-60.  Samuel  Champney  is  chosen  constable  ;  Jonathan  Dan- 
forth  and  Henry  Jeftes,  surveyors;  and  "John  Parker  is  added  to 
them  to  help  be(?)  over  the  work  about  the  bridge  and  casway  at 
Shawshin,"  which  was  near  his  house.  The  Selectmen  were  John 
Parker,  Leift"'.  Will  French,  Ralph  Hill,  Sen.,  Thomas  Foster,  and 
Jonathan  Danforth.  John  Sterne  and  John  Baldwin  "  are  apointed 
to  vew  fences."  John  Parker  was  "chosen  to  carry  the  votes  for 
Nomination  of  Magistrates  and  Country  Treasurer,"  and  also  to 
attend  upon  the  next  General  Court  with  the  Town's  petition  "for 
Attaining  of  Mr.  Weld's  farme  on  the  other  side  Concord  River,  to 
the  Towne  as  other  Conion  Lands,  if  the  Court  pleased  to  grante 
the  same  and  to  give  Mr.  Weld  some  land  elsewhere."  But  the 
petition,  if  presented,  failed,  and  the  town  did  not  gain  full  title  to 
this  land  for  thirty  years,  although  it  early  began  to  make  grants 
upon  it. 
John  Hall  receives  l)ut  declines  a  grant  of  land.  George  Farley 
is  chosen  to  serve  on  the  grand  jury,  and  Ralph  Hill,  Jun.,  on  the 
jury  of  trials.  Jonathan  Danforth  "is  chosen  deputy  for  the  town 
to  joyne  with  the  Comitee  to  isew  the  buseness  about  County-  bridges 
and  also  to  answer  the  presentments  about  Shawshin  bridge,"  which 
Jiad  been  complained  of. 
"  2  :  5  :  60.  The  town  do  consente  to  Captin  Gookin  y'  he  shall 
haue  40  or  .'^O  acors  of  land  in  some  convenient  place  where  it 
shall  be  found  for  convenient  cituation  to  build  vpon  and  break  vp, 
in  lew  of  which  p'cell  of  Lande  y*  is  granted  to  him  by  the  Town 
Lying  on  the  Township,  and  a  committee  is  appointed  to  make  the 
exchange."  His  lot  on  the  Township  was^on  the  south  corner  of 
Long  and  West  Streets,  where  the  Library,  Church,  Post-Offlce, 
and  Town  Hall  now  stand,  and  his  fifty  acres  in  exchange  were 
laid  out  "on  the  south  side  the  Town,  and  a  little  southeast  of 
Nuttin's  pond." 
 - 81 - 
60  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
During  this  year,  the  town  "accepts"  as  inhabitants  the  brothers 
Peter  and  Jolui  Bracket,  and  Josei)h  Tomson  and  Simon  Crosby, 
whose  wives  were  sisters  of  the  Brackets,  all  from  Braintree  ;  also 
of  John  Kittredge  and  Roger  Toothaker.  And  Benjamin  Scot, 
brother  of  Christopher  Webb's  wife,  had  "leave  to  live  in  town," 
but  did  not  accept  it. 
'•'John  Bracket,  requesting  of  the  Town  a  small  skirt  of  Lande 
Lying  between  his  hous  Lott  and  the  highwa}'  on  the  East,  together 
with  a  small  Angl  of  Laud  Lyinge  crosse  the  upper  road  wa}-  at 
Abot's  Bridge  and  Simon  Burd's  fence  according  to  two  trees 
already  marked  b}'  Jonathan  Danforth,  and  so  ruuninge  to  the  hither 
corner  bounde  mark  of  John  Durant's  house  Lott,  the  Tbwne  grant 
his  request,  provided  that  John  Bracket  at  his  owne  charge  shall 
make  a  good  and  sufficient  Bridge  over  that  durty  place  (called 
Abots  Bridge)  both  watter  course  and  all  the  bad  way  on  each 
side  so  far  as  is  needful,  which  sufficient  way  shall  be  Judged  and 
accepted  of  by  the  present  surveyors  and  the  work  to  be  done  by 
the  said  John  Brackett  by  the  Last  of  the  Nexte  month  ensewing, 
or  else  this  grant  to  be  voyde."  Bracket's  house  stood  between  the 
brooks  at  the  corner,  and  this  record  identifies  the  locality,  but  does 
not  explain  the  source  of  the  name,  of  Abot's  Bridge. 
In  December,  IGGO:  "At  a  Meeting  at  Leiffcent.  French's,  the 
major  prt  of  y''  
Townsmen  did  agree  y'  Will  Browne  shold  wayt  sum 
time  for  the  disposinge  of  his  acomidations  y'  was  granted  him  by 
the  Towne,  in  reference  to  the  getting  of  his  charges  \^  he  had 
expended  upon  the  premises  by  way  of  improvement  of  the  same 
himself,  or  by  such  other  person  as  the  Towne  shall  approue  on, 
by  his  procuring  or  otherwise  procured  by  the  Towne  ;  it  was  also 
yielded  to  the  saide  Will  Browne  that  it  sholde  be  propounded  to  the 
towne  and  move  to  another  vote  whether  Simon  Crosby  shall  inj(w 
the  Bargain  soulde  to  him  by  the  saide  Will  Browne,  whether  the 
said  Simon  shall  injoy  the  same  notwithstanding  the  vote  y'  is  paste 
by  the  towne  alread}-,  or  whether  he  shall  not  injo}'  it."  The  result 
was  no  doubt  in  favor  of  Simon  Crosby,  as  he  henceforth  appears  as 
a  citizen.  This  action,  it  will  be  observed,  is  of  the  "Townsmen," 
a  frequent  earl}'  name  for  the  officials  commonl}'  known  as  Selectmen. 
Was  not  tl|is  early  word  better  than  that  which  usage  has  adopted? 
It  was  soon  found  important  to  define  the  functions  of  these  all 
important  officials  of  the  New  England  Town.  The  Town  itself 
was  an  experiment  in  local  government  such  as  the  world  had  never 
 - 82 - 
THE    STORY    AS    TOLD    IN    THE    RECORDS.  61 
tried  until  tlie  fathers  set  it  in  motion  on  tlaese  shores  ;  and  its 
successful  working  was  and  is  still  fundamental  in  the  American 
sj'stem.  Upon  the  Selectmen  much  of  this  success  depended,  and 
Billerica  thus  outlined  their  duties  : — 
''19:  9:  7660.  The  severall  p'ticulars  drawne  vp  for  instructions 
for  the  Townsmen,  acordinge  to  which  they  are  to  act  in  the  Town  affairs. 
This  Mas  voted  by  the  major  prt  of  the  Towne. 
ujtii_  xhat  what  worke  or  business  is  by  order  of  Courte  Assigned  on 
the  Selectmen,  or  injoyned  on  the  'J'owne,  the  Selectmen  shall  take  due 
care  to  effect  the  same  so  as  may  best  conduce  to  the  publique  good,  and 
no  damage  by  the  neglect  thereof. 
"2'>'.  As  often  as  they  shall  see  Needful,  they  shall  giue  publique 
notice  to  the  Inhabitance  to  meet  together.  &  what  orders  or  determinations 
shall  be  passed  by  publique  vote  of  the  Town,  made  by  there  Selectmen, 
the  Selectmen  shall  take  due  care  to  execute,  fulfill,  and  acomplish  the 
same  without  respect  of  any  man's  person. 
•'3'>'.  They  shall  take  due  care  for  the  maintenance,  repairing,  and 
well  ordering  of  all  such  things  wherein  the  Towne  hath  a  comou  interest, 
as  the  meeting  house,  Amunitione,  pounde.  stocks,  common  highways, 
common  herdes,  and  the  like. 
'•'4'h.  They  shall  make  such  prudentiall  orders  and  impose  such 
penalties,  and  duly  publish  and  execute  the  same,  as  may  best  ef  ecte  the 
execution  of  the  premisses  for  the  publique  weall  of  the  Towne. 
'Soiy.  That  the  nessary  charges  expended  on  the  premisses  in  the 
execution  thereof  be  discharged  by  an  equall  Rate  made  by  the  Townsmen 
and  levied  by  the  Constable  on  the  severall  Inhabitants  and  Proprietors 
acordinge  to  orders. 
"6^y.  The  Constable  at  ye  end  of  his  yere  shall  giue  in  his  acountes 
vnto  the  Townsmen  (and  any  other  person  that  shall  receiue  anything  of 
the  Townes  debts  or  money  in  Like  manner)  of  what  they  haue  receiued 
of  the  Towne  by  way  of  Eate  or  otherwayes,  of  the  publique  stocke,  and 
how  they  haue  disbursed  the  same,  which  shall  be  cept  vpon  record  in  a 
Booke. 
"7'y.  The  Surveyors  of  the  highewayes  shall  take  order  for  there 
work  from  the  Townsmen,  and  shall  take  due  care  for  the  repairing  of  all 
Country  Eoades  in  the  Towne,  (and  of  no  other  without  p'ticular  order) , 
and  they  shall  keep  vpon  record  (in  a  book  fairly  written)  4:he  names  of  all 
such  persons  as  are  improued  therein  during  there  yere  and  deliuer  the 
same  to  the  Townsmen  then  in  place. 
•'8'>'.  The  Townsmen  shall  carefully  examine  Town  records  which 
are  already  recorded,  and  wherein  any  of  them  are  not  so  fully  expressed 
as  to  the  true  intent  of  the  Towne  they  shall  corect  and  amende  the  same. 
"9«'.  Whatever  damage  they  shall  aprehende  to  come  to  the  Towne 
by  any  person  within  or  without  the  Towne,  by  appropriating,  intruding. 
or  damnifling  or  exceedinge  there  owTie  due  proportion  in  any  wise,  in  any 
 - 83 - 
62  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
of  the  Towne  comons,  Lands,  or  woods,  or  other  publick  stocke,  Libertyes, 
or  interests  in  y^  Towne,  aoordinge  to  there  best  discretion  they  shall 
timely  preuent  and  remoove  y*^  same  ;  and  wliere  any  Lands  are  in  question 
at  the  present,  whether  they  are  or  shiiU  be  the  Just  right  of  such  prsons 
as  Lay  claime  to  the  same,  the;'  shall  Judge  acordinge  to  there  Best 
discretions  and  either  more  fully  confirm  the  same  or  else  vindicate  such 
Lands  to  the  Towne. 
"lO'y.  In  case  complainte  be  made  by  any  man  wantinge  his  due  and 
Just  proportion  granted  him  by  the  Towne,  they  shall  take  due  care  that  it 
be  made  good  acordinge  to  there  beste  discretione. 
*'ll"i.  All  lands  which  are  to  be  recorded  to  tlie  propriety  of  any.  a 
copy  of  the  same  shall  first  be  vewed  and  approued  by  the  Townsmen 
before  they  are  entered  in  the  Towne  booke. 
"12"=.  The  Townsmen  shall  demande  and  carefully  examine  &  receiue 
and  pay  all  Towne  debtes,  and  in  case  any  refuse  to  pay,  to  destraine  by 
the  constable  acordinge  to  the  former  orders. 
"  13tii.  They  shall  haue  no  power  to  grant  any  house  Lott  or  acomida- 
tions  to  any  person,  vnless  it  be  in  makeing  satisfactione  to  i^ersons  damni- 
fied by  
the  highwayes  going  cross  y'  propriety,  the  which  they  shall  haue 
power  to  act  in  acordinge  to  y'  best  discretione. 
"■19.  9.  1660.     this  was  uoted  on  y*'  aftlrmative.'" 
"27:  12:  64.  The  Town  A^oted  these  instructions  be  not  in 
force,  but  as  they  are  voted  by  tlie  Town  from  yeare  to  j^eare." 
And  a  frequent  vote  of  later  j-ears  was  to  repeat  previous  instruc- 
tions to  
the  Selectmen. 
In  the  Treasurer's  accounts  for  tliis  3"ear,  Henry  Jeffcs  lias  credit 
for  "300  briks  for  3'"^  minister's  chimney";  Ralph  Hill,  Sen.,  and 
Thomas  Patten  are  charged  thirteen  shillings  each  for  "not  tra^^n- 
inge"  ;  and  Will  Sheldon,  James  Patersou,  and  John  Kitti'edge, 
for  "defect  in  traj-ninge,"  two  shillings. 
"17  December,  1660.  Lefteu'.  Will"  French  is  chosen  Deputy 
for  this  Town  for  the  Next  Genr'.  Court,  and  no  longer."  Two 
days  later  he  was  in  his  seat  at  Boston,  the  first  Deputy  from 
Billerica  to  the  General  Court. 
On  page  2?,  an  important  letter  is  found  : — 
"18:  11*  mo.  1660.  A  copy  of  a  lettei'  from  Major  Willard,  directed 
to  John  Parker:   the  contentes  follow: 
"  Loving  and  kind  ffriend,  you  haue  heard  of  the  many  notions  between 
my  son  Blood  and  myselfe  about  the  farme  adjoining  to  the  New  addition 
to  your  towne;  also  you  remembej-  the  agreemente  that  we  made  about 
running  the  Line  between  you  and  the  farme,  which,  when  I  came  with 
the  men  of  Concord  to  [run?]  it  out,  I  had  forgott:   therefore,  to  prevent 
 - 84 - 
THE    STORY    AS    TOLD    IN    THE    RECORDS.  63 
any  further  troubles.  I  pray,  let  that  agreement  [with?]  y^self,  Goodman 
Hill,  and  Gou.  ffarley,  which  my  sonn  Blood  and  myselfe  made,  let  it 
[stand?]  and  continue;  and  to  this  eande  I  commit  the  thinge  to  my  son 
Blood,  wholly  :   in  witness  whereto  I  set  my  hande. 
"Dated  this  18:  January,  1660.  SlMON  Willakd." 
This  forgetfulness  of  the  good  Major  was  apparently  the  basis 
of  a  claim  made  by  Concord  about  1700,  and  of  a  controversy 
carried  up  to  the  General  Court,  concerning  these  lines. 
In  1661,  the  town  agreed  that  the  clerk  should  have  "twelve 
pence  per  a  page,"  and  for  every  land-grant  entered  in  the  book 
sixpence  from  the  grantee  ;  and  sixpence  for  ever^-  copy  taken  out 
of  the  book. 
"The  town  did  agree  with  John  Parker  to  look  out  some  land 
for  the  towne,  to  the  vallew  of  four  thousand  acres  granted  to  the 
town  b}^  the  General  Court  ;  and  for  what  time  the  said  John  dotli 
expende  in  looking  for  the  said  Lande,  they  do  covenant  to  pay  vnto 
him  six  shillings  a  day,  and  also  to  pay  him  for  what  other  charges 
he  shall  necessarily  be  at  in  hireing  Indians  to  discour  or  otherwayes, 
except  his  own  provitions,  which  he  is  to  bare  himself." 
The  location  and  disposition  of  this  grant  are  described  else- 
where. The  pa}''  was  probably  not  large  enough  to  tempt  Mr. 
Parker  to  devote  any  more  time  than  was  necessary'  to  the  service. 
In  1661,  we  find  an  order  concerning  the  "common  herd":  — 
"  5 ;  2 :  61.     The  Townsmen  do  order  : 
"1.  That  there  shall  be  a  comon  Herde  kept  in  the  toune;  or  more 
herds  if  it  is  more  convenient  for  the  inhabitants  who  Liue  remote  from 
the  senter  of  the  Toune. 
''2iy.  That  all  such  persons  as  Liue  convenient  to  tura  there  catell  to 
the  comon  herd,  shall  pay  their  full  proportion  to  the  same,  whether  there 
catell  be  turned  to  the  herd  or  not,  if  they  goe  without  a  cow  [?]  keeper. 
"3>y.  That  all  such  persons  as  liue  remote  from  the  Toune,  who  can 
not  so  conveniently  turne  there  cattell  to  the  comon  herd,  shall  put  there 
cattell  vnder  a  suffitient  keeper,  or  pay  half  so  much  to  the  comon  herd  as 
others  doe  who  Hue  convenient  for  the  same.  The  persons  which  we  judge 
to  Liue  remote,  and  are  Lyable  to  pay  but  half,  or  else  herd  there  owne 
cattell,  are  such  as  dwell  upon  or  about  Loes  playne,  and  about  foxes  hill 
and  which  liue  on  the  east  and  south  of  bare  hill,  and  beyond  theni  that 
way,  except  Shawshin  farmes. 
"4'n.  They  do  grant  vnto  the  inhabitantes  y'  Liue  about  a  mile  from 
Shawshin  house  to  make  vp  there  herd  if  they  wante,  to  the  Number  of 
three  score. 
 - 85 - 
64:  HISTORY   OF   BILLERICA. 
■•o'y.  Thc}^  doe  order  that  thelisual  places  at  wiiieh  the  Herdsmen  in 
the  toune  shall  take  and  deliuer  there  cattell  are  at  Ralph  Hill,  senior's,  and 
Jonathan  Danforth's  south  east  corner  of  his  house  lot. 
"6'>.  That  Jonathan  Dantorth  and  James  Kidder  shall  agree  with 
herdsmen  or  a  herdsman,  and  to  draw  vp  orders  that  consernes  the  same, 
in  behalf  of  the  Avhole. 
'••T'y.  They  doe  order  that  all  such  vplands  wch.  ly  vnfenced,  which 
are  the  propriety  of  any  particular  person  or  prsons  whatsoever,  shall  be 
accounted  comon  for  the  free  feed  of  cattell,  without  any  Lett  or  hindrance 
f  
rtJni  the  particular  proprietors  of  the  same. 
'•S'^.  It  is  ordered  that  the  herdsmen  shall  driue  out  there  herd  thease 
severall  ways  hereafter  mentioned,  in  theire  severall  da\'s,  towards  the 
falls  and  bejamd  thafr  way;  and  ouer  Concord  riuer  when  the  water  is 
Low.  that  the  C'atell  may  pass  through  the  riuer;  and  beyond  goodman 
Hills  and  arounde  the  ponde  and  beyond  it;  and  by  Nuttens  towards 
Capt.  Gookins  farme;  and  round  fox  Hill  (but  not  to  keep  the  herd  about 
any  of  the  houses  of  such  as  pay  half  ^the  herdage,  whose  cattell  cannot 
'goe  conveniently  with  the  herd)  ;  also  to  keep  the  herd  out  of  all  meadows, 
as  they  will  answer  the  neglect  of  it  at  their  own  peril. 
"9'.^'.  It  is  also  ordered  that  what  person  or  persons  soever  shall  refuse 
to  pay  there  proportions  to  the  comon  herd,  they  shall  pay  one-quarter  so 
much  more  than  there  wholl  proportions  ;  and  to  be  Levied  by  distress  by 
the  constable,  acording  to  Law,  or  such  other  person  as  the  Townsmen 
shall  apoynt.  And  that  all  such  cattell  as  either  goe  with  the  comon  herd 
(or  are  Lyabie  to  pay  to  the  same)  three  weeks  in  either  half  year,  in  the 
Time  of  herdinge,  shall  be  Lyabie  to  pay  for  the  whole  half." 
Soon  after,  "it  is  ordered  that  any  person  being  Legally  warned 
to  keep  the  comon  herd  vpou  the  sabbath  day.  and  he  refuse  and 
neglect  the  same,  shall  pay  for  a  fine  five  shillings."  A  fine  of 
sixpence  was  also  laid  b}-  the  Townsmen,  "if  any  one  of  them  doe 
neglect  to  appear  at  the  usual  da3's  of  meeting,  b}'  eight  of  the 
clock,  in  the  forenoon,"  and,  "if  any  of  them  shall  deprt  at  any 
time,  without  special  leave  from  the  rest  of  the  compan}',"  he  was 
fined  two  shillings  and  sixpence. 
In  1660,  "Simon  Burd  is  sworne  Clerk  of  the  Trayne  Band,"  the 
first  record  of  the  military  life  of  the  town.  "24:  8:  61.  James 
Kidder  is  chosen  sarjent,  Thomas  Foster,  eldest  corporal,  George 
ffarle}',  corporal,  Samuel  Kemp,  drummer,  and  Will'  Hamlitt,  Clarke 
to  y*  company." 
Four  days  later,  the  town  made  a  distribution  of  meadow  lots 
to  forty-one  inhabitants,  which  was  afterwards  annulled,  probably 
because  it  was  found  to  belong  to  the  "great  meadow"  of  Governor 
Winthrop's  farm. 
 - 86 - 
THE    STORY    AS    TOLD    IN    THE    RECORDS.  65 
An  important  agreement  bearing  the  same  date  follows  : — 
"We,  whose  Names  are  vnderwritten  do  Agree  that  John  Parker 
and  Jonathan  Danforth  shall  haue  one  thousand  acres  of  Land  (to 
there  owne  propriet}-)  out  of  the  four  thousand  acres  of  Land  granted 
to  the  Towne  by  the  Last  General  Courte,  provided  that  they  Lay 
out  the  other  three  thousand  Acres  at  penicooke,  or  sum  of  it  nerer 
home  in  either  place  or  places,  as  the  Towne  shall  Apoynte,  and 
be  at  all  charges  about  it,  returning  a  record  of  the  buttings  and 
boundings  of  the  same,  with  a  platt  of  it,  to  the  Generall  Courte  for 
their  confirmation  of  the  same. 
"  Mr.  Samuell  Whitinge.  Hamuell  Champney. 
Leift.  Will*  ffrench.  John  Rogers,  Sen'. 
Will*  Tay.  John  Marshall. 
'George  ffarley.  John  Kitterige. 
Henery  Jefts.  Thomas  Pattin. 
Simon  Burd.  Samuell  Kemp. 
Samuell  Kinsley.  John  Poulter. 
Daniell  Shead.  John  Baldwin. 
Cristopher  Webb.  Jacob  Browne. 
Willi  Chamberlin.  John  ffrench. 
John  Trull.  Will*  Haill. 
James  Patterson.  John  Durante." 
A  glimpse  of  the  pioneer  side  of  life  follows:  "5:  9:  1661. 
It  is  ordered  that  what  person  soever  shall  kill  a  wolfe  or  wolues 
shall  haue,  for  euery  wolfe  killed  and  brought  to  the  constable 
acordinge  to  law,  he  shall  haue  for  euery  wolfe  Twentj^  Shillings, 
which  shall  be  payd  by  the  constable  then  being,  in  the  towns  behalf 
*  provided  that  either  English  or  Indian  shall  make  proof  to  the 
constable  or  select  men  that  it  was  killed  within  the  boundes  of  o' 
Towne."  Ralph  Hill,  Jun.,  and  John,  Indian,  received  each  one 
pound  from  the  town  for  wolves  killed,  in  1661.  At  the  same  time 
a  committee  was  appointed  to  make  recompense  to  ' ' the  several 
inhabitants  for  Highways  taken  out  of  there  lands." 
A  large  share  of  the  town  action  of  this  period  is  devoted  to 
grants  of  land,  general  and  special.  Much  of  this  record  can  not 
be  quoted  here,  but  some  items  have  special  interest  and  may  be 
given. 
"19:  9:  61.  The  Towne  doe  grant  vnto  Francis  and  John 
Wyman  that  prcell  of  Lande  y'  Lyeth  between  Oberne  Line  and  the 
farme  that  they  purchased  of  Mr.  Dunster,  which  is  by  estimation 
 - 87 - 
(jQ  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
four  score  acres,  more  or  less,  and  is  bounded  on  the  south  or  south 
east  with  Captain  Gookins  farme  Line,  wliich  prcll.  of  Land  the 
Towne  doe  grant  to  the  aforesaid  Wymans  for  propriety"  ;  and  also 
the  Towne  doe  grant  them  Liberty  to  mow  the  meadow  that  L^'eth 
in  o'  bounds  Nere  to  Oberne  Line,  on  Stop  brooke,  from  yere  to 
yere,  vntill  it  shall  be  otherwise  disposed  of,  if  it  fall  not  into 
Captin  Gookiu's  farme,  when  that  farme  Line  come  to  be  perfected." 
"John  Parker  is  chosen  juryman  for  Cambridg  cort.  S'"".  '62." 
"Will'  Tay  was  chosen  comitioner  for  y*"  cuntry  rate.     '62." 
An  early  custom,  long  disused,  is  brought  to  light  in  this  item  : 
"22  :  10  :  '62.  John  Kitrigc  is  desired  to  se  to  the  fulfilling  of  the 
order  about  ringing  and  yoaking  of  swine  ;  in  case  any  of  our 
inhabitants  doe  not  ring  and  yoake  their  swine  acording  to  the 
order,  we  doe  impower  him  the  said  Kittrige  to  ring  and  j'oake  ; 
he  shall  haue  for  euer^'  swine  he  doth  ringe,  after  three  days  warning 
giuen  to  the  owner  off  them,  he  shall  haue  for  euer}'  swine  he  rings 
sixpence  a  swine.  Levied  on  the  persons  that  doe  neglect  ;  and  for 
euery  swine  shall  be  yoaked  by  him,  after  such  notice  giuen  as 
before  said,  he  shall  haue  9  p.  pr.  3'oak  for  all  that  he  suffitiently 
yoakes."  The  record  is  John  Parker's,  and  he  intends  his  language 
to  be  explicit,  if  it  is  sometimes  a  trifle  redundant  and  ungram- 
matical. 
"8:  10:  62."  Christopher  Web  asks  for  about  two  acres  of 
land,  "on  the  brook  aboue  his  house,  Next  brother  Foster's  fence," 
but  the  town  declined  to  grant  it.  On  the  same  da}',  "Joseph 
French  is  accepted  of  b}'  the  major  prt.  of  the  towne,  to  be  an 
inhabitant  in  the  Town  on  Golden  More's  lot."  But  Mr.  French  did 
not  remain  on  More's  lot.  He  married  soon  a  daughter  of  Thomas 
Foster,  and  three  j^ears  after  has  leave  to  cut  timber  for  his  house, 
which  stood,  as  his  "grants"  show,  east  of  the  Woburn  Road,  near 
Mr.  Foster's. 
"2:  12:  62.  The  Townsmen  doe  order  that  the  meadowe 
belonging  to  y"  Mill  Lott,  and  the  meadowe  called  bj'  the  Name 
of  y^  Cow-keeper's  meadowe,  shall  not  be  mown  by  any  person 
whatever  without  leave  from  the  Townsmen,  and  an  agreement  made 
with  them  what  Rent  they  shall  pay  for  the  same,  or  any  pr'.  or 
prcell.  thereof."  "John  Sternes  is  ordered  to  pa}'  for  the  grass  that 
he  did  mow  the  Last  Summer  on  the  Mill  Lott,  or  any  other  comon 
meadows,  6  p."  The  cowkeeper's  meadow  was  south  of  the  falls 
and  present  mill-dam  at  North  Billerica. 
 - 88 - 
THE    STORY   AS    TOLD    IN    THE    RECORDS.  67 
"23:  12:  62.  At  a  town  meeting  it  is  agreed  that  there  shall 
be  trees  marked  on  the  Highways  to  stand  for  shade  for  cattell 
from  time  to  time  ;  and  what  trees  soever  are  fallen  b}'  any  prson 
w'soever,  that  is  or  shall  be  marked  with  T,  shall  forfeit  for  any 
tree  so  fallen  paj^  tenn  shillings  ;  if  any  such  trees  be  Lopt,  they 
shall  pa}'  the  like  penalty." 
"The  Towne  did  agree  y'  Leiftnt.  ffrench  and  George  ffarley,  as 
a  comittee  in  the  Towne's  behalf,  shall  treate  with  Ralph  Hill  sen'', 
about  a  peece  of  land,  about  half  an  acre  for  a  buring  place."  The 
result  was,  "  10  :  2  :  
63.  Ralph  Hill  Sen'  gaue  to  the  Towne  half  an 
acre  of  Land  for  a  buring  place,  on  condition  that  the  Towne  shall 
fence  all  against  it  Next  unto  his  own  Land  from  which  this  ^  acre 
shall  be  taken."  This  was  the  origin  of  the  Old  South  Burying 
Ground.     Mr.  Hill  died  a  few  days  later. 
"16:  1:  63.  John  Baldwin  and  John  Trull  are  chosen  to  vew 
fences  on  the  west  side  of  y^  Rode  y'  Leads  between  Concord  and 
AndcA^er.  Tho.  ffoster  and  Benjamin  Parker  to  vew  all  the  fences 
the  east  side  of  that  Rode." 
"The  Townsmen  doe  order  that  all  fences  shall  be  made  suffitient 
by  the  1"^  day  of  Aprill  Next  ensuing  after  the  date  hereof,  about 
all  corn  fieldes,  on  penalty  of  paying  four  pence  pr.  euer}'^  poll  y' 
Neglects  ;  and  all  fences  shall  be  good,  fine  rails,  or  one  equivalent 
to  it ;  and  that  fence  y'  is  three  feet  and  eight  inches  high  shall  be 
acounted  a  suffitient  fence  :  the  fine  set  shall  be  Lyable  to  be  payd 
by  all  prtj's.  defective  when  the  time  is  out,  y'  is  alowed  by  y*  Law 
to  vewers  of  fences  ;  the  four  pence  pr.  poll  fine  to  be  payd,  the  one 
half  to  the  vewers  of  fences  &  the  other  half  to  the  Towne." 
Town  meetings  were,  at  first,  held  frequently  and  whenever  busi- 
ness required,  and  town  officers  were  chosen  as  convenience  called 
for  them.  The  first  appointment  of  a  regular  town-meeting  day  was 
made  as  follows  :  "  10.  2.  '63.  James  Kidder  is  chosen  cons'ble  for 
y*  yere  insuinge,  till  the  Last  second  day  of  March  ;  and  the  Towne 
doe  agree  that  from  yere  to  yere,  the  last  second  day  in  the  1"* 
month  shall  be  the  day  of  Election  for  Constable  and  Townsmen  and 
all  other  oficers  to  be  chosen  in  the  Towne,  acording  to  Law." 
The  following  extract  illustrates  the  persistency  of  the  disused 
name  Shawshin  :  "  5  :  11  :  
'63.  At  a  Towne  meetinge  at  Shawshin, 
the  Towne  did  agree  that  those  prsons  y'  haue  had  their  Lands  taken 
away  from  the  conion  field,  by  Mrs.  Winthrop's  farme  Nere  Concord 
Riuer,  shall  haue  their  lands  laj'd  out  to  them,  in  Lew  of  the  same, 
 - 89 - 
68  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
vpon  the  playne  beyond  the  mill  Brooke,  called  content  Brooke  : 
that  prt  of  the  playne  that  Lyeth  on  the  North  side  of  heath  swamp 
meadow  ;  to  be  La3"ed  out  b}^  a  comittee  at  their  best  discretion  to 
act  between  the  Towne  and  the  prsons  conserned  therein  ;  and  they 
are  ordered  to  La}'  out  golden  more's  50  acres  of  Land  that  y"^  
Town 
granted  to  him,  to  be  Layed  Next  adjoining  to  the  comon  field  Lotts 
at  that  end  Next  toward  the  Indian's  plantation.  The  comittee 
appointed  and  impowered  to  do  the  work  are  these  :  George  flfai'ley, 
Jonathan  Danforth,  Henry  Jefts."  On  the  same  day,  "The  Towne 
doe  except  of  Samuel  ffroste  and  his  brother,  James  ffrost,  as 
Inhabitants  in  this  Towne,  in  case  they  can  by  or  hire  acomodations 
in  the  Towne  to  lilie  vpon." 
Farther  action  was  also  taken  in  the  matter  of  the  Cambridge 
lots.  John  Parker's  agreement  to  clear  the  titles  of  eight  thousand 
acres  is  given  in  the  preceding  chapter.  Now,  -'the  Towne  doe 
request  and  impower  John  Parker  to  purchase  the  Remainder  of  the 
Lots  of  Cambridge  that  Ly  in  this  Towne  Boundes,  for  the  vse  of 
this  Towne  ;  he  is  not  to  exceed  six  pence  pr  an  acor  ;  and  the 
Towne  doth  ingade  to  pay  A'nto  the  saide  John  Parker,  in  cattell  or 
such  corne  as  he  can,  with  the  owners  of  the  Lotts  for,  at  or  before 
the  Twenty  and  ninth  da}'  of  december  Next  cominge  After  the  date 
hereof.  And  they  doe  agree  to  pay  to  him  six  pence  an  acor,  at  the 
least,  for  what  he  shall  soe  clere  to  the  Towne  more  than  the  eight 
thousand  acres  formerl}^  agreed  on  to  be  clered  by  him  to  the 
Towne." 
The  Cambridge  lots  numbered  ninety-eight  hundred  acres,  so 
that  if  Mr.  Parker  had  lived  to  carr}'  out  his  former  bargain  fully, 
there  would  have  remained  eighteen  hundred  acres  to  which  this 
stipulation  would  appl}'. 
"17:  12:  63.  The  Townsmen  did  order  that  all  records  and 
copies  of  records,  and  all  platts  of  lands  and  meddows  that  con- 
serned the  Towne,  shall  be  kept  in  the  hands  of  the  Townsmen,  or 
their  order,  for  the  Town's  vse  &  benefit  for  the  future." 
Mr.  Parker  came  to  Billerica  as  lessee  of  the  Church  Farm,  and 
did  not  acquire  any  claim  in  the  common  lands  until  the  following 
grant  was  made  to  him  : — 
"25.  11.  63.  The  Towne  did  sell  vnto  John  Parker,  the  mill  Lot,  the 
House  platt  to  be  removed  Nere  to  the  great  bridgp,  44  acors  ;  and  the 
former  place  is  Lade  by  the  Town  at  present  comon  to  the  Town's  vse; 
(but  the  TowTi  hath  sould  vnto  the  aforesaid  John  Parker  the  said  lot, 
 - 90 - 
THE    STORY    AS    TOLD    IN    THE    RECORDS.  69 
called  ye  mill  lot,  formerly  laid  out  and  recorded  to  Will'  Sheldon,  vpon 
conditions  which  were  not  performed  by  the  said  William,)  the  said  John, 
his  Heirs,  executors,  and  assigns,  by  the  Town's  agreement  shall  have, 
hold,  possess,  and  Jnjoy,  all  that  Lott,  together  with  all  devitions  of  Land 
that  are  Layd  out,  or  hereafter  shall  be  due  to  be  layd  out,  of  upland  and 
meadow  land,  and  all  other  priviledges  as  doth  or  may  belong  to  an  eight- 
acor  Lott;  for  and  in  consideration  whereof,  the  said  John  doth  consent 
and  agree  to  pay  vnto  the  Towne  for  their  vse  this  present  Town  Bate, 
to  the  valew  of  Twenty  and  five  pounds,  now  in  hand,  acording  to  the 
Townsmen's  order  ;  and  the  suine  of  Thirty  pounds  more  in  such  pay  as 
shall  Answer  the  Town's  ends,  for  present  oi-  future  comon  charges,  for 
laying  out  Landes  or  puch  like  publique  ocations,  to  be  payd  by  the  said 
John,  his  Heirs  or  assigns,  to  the  Townsmen  of  the  Towne  of  Billirica,  or 
to  their  order,  as  the  said  charges  publique  shall  necessarily  arise  in  the 
Towne  to  be  paid,  as  abovesaid,  vntill  the  just  sume  of  fifty  and  five 
poundes  in  all  be  discharged." 
Town  charges  and  taxes  were  not  a  light  burden  to  the  hardy 
men  who  were  clearing  the  forests  and  lading  the  foundations  here. 
Most  of  the  pioneers  had  not  much  to  begin  with,  except  their  own 
strong  arms  and  brave  hearts  ;  and  the  providing  of  the  plainest 
necessaries  for  the  comfort  of  their  families  was  often  quite  as  much 
as  the}^  could  secure.  It  was  natural  and  legitimate  therefore,  for 
them  to  appropriate  the  grant  of  four  thousand  acres  from  the 
General  Court,  to  the  payment  of  their  heaviest  early  charges  for 
the  meeting-house  and  Mr.  Whiting's  salary  ;  and  provision  for 
other  obligations  bj-  grants  of  their  common  land,  as  in  this  case,  to 
Mr.  Parker,  were  reasonable  in  their  circumstances. 
The  Records  have  fortunately  preserved  exact  account  of  these 
public  charges,  which  the  town  was  called  upon  to  meet,  and  this 
chapter  may  fitly  close  with  a  transcript  of  the  accounts  of  the  town, 
16G1-4. 
"'I;  12:  63.  The  Townsmen  did  order  the  Town  debts  and  credit 
shall  be  recorded  in  y'^  Towne  booke. 
"The  Towne  of  Billerikey  is  creditor  from  John  Parker,  due  to  the 
Towne  since  the  Eates  made  1661. 
"  Ralph  Hill  Seni-    JSTot  trayninge    '62:  0-4-0 
Willi  Tay  pajd  y'  he  was  behind  for  ye  same  0-4-0 
due  for  the  old  stok  of  amunition,  15  p  powf^'',  2  p 
bullets  &  12  p  match.  2 -    15  -   8 
John  Blood  gave  twriJ.  y*^  u)inistry  prt^  of  y^  pay  for 
killinge  two  wolves  1 -    10  -   0 
Simon  Crosby  payd,  for  Will'  Tay,  for  2  acors  of 
Nuttin's  meadow,  to  the  Towne  2-0-0 
 - 91 - 
70  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
••for  the  Aruunirion  Eate  gathered  in  61  5-0-10 
for  a  to^\-ne  Rate  gathered  m  61  6-9-0 
for  grass  niowne  by  John  Sterne  on  y«  mill  Lett,  on 
Shawshin  Riuer  0-6-0 
diie  for  the  mill  Lett  and  all  the  devisions  of  lands 
and   meadows  and  privilidges  belonging  to   the 
same,  by  John  Parker  55  -   0  -   0 
28 :  1 :  W.     John  Blood  £ave  to  y«  Towne  y^  was  due 
to  him.  from  y«  Towne  10  p  tt  from  y«  Cuntry  20  1-10-0 
due  to  the  to'w-ne  to  the  07 : 9 :  
64.  y«  sum  of  74-19-6 
So  there  is  due  still  to  the  Towne  13  -  OS  -   0  " 
The    above   balance   is   obtained    bv   subtracting   the    following 
charges  : — 
"since  Eates  made  '61  Towne  of  BUlerikeT  Debtor, 
••is  due  to  John  Parker,  for  y*  Townsmen"?  diners,  to 
28 :  
10 :  
63     in  all  13  meetings  2-4-6 
payd  for  fixinge  vp  the  Drum.  New  head  and  snares 
and  cord  0  -   15  -   0 
pay^  for  keepinge  y*  meeting  hovse.  62.  to  Daniell 
Shead  1-0-0 
charges  expended  at  o''  Lecture.  62  0-10-0 
pay^  John  Bracket  for  fetching  3Ir.  Miller  from 
y*  bay.  to  preach  here  1   Lord's  day  when  31r. 
Whiting  was  absent  0-4-0 
for  Recording  y«  mill  Lett.  2  de^ntions.  tt  pay  for 
helping  Lay  it  out.  in  all 
paid  for  helping  Lay  out  y«  minister's  2  devitions 
charge  about  31r.  Whiting's  paster  fence 
for  a  pane  of  glass  for  3Ir.  Whiting's  window 
pay^'  John  hapeny.  jndian.  for  killinge  a  wolfe 
pay*  John  Stem  for  hriks  not  paid  for 
pav"  John  Sterne  for  Eufiinge  obem  line 
27 : 2 :  
63.     charges  when  y*  cousell  of  Elders  and 
Messengers  from  other  chiuches.     2  m.  »!c  chs.' 
pay^  to  John  Blood  for  killinge  2  wolves 
pay<i  y*  deputy's  charges  &  dyet  at  Court.  63 
to  }-«  smith,  for  2  staples  for  y^  bridge 
pav*'  to  Heuery  Jefts  for  Euninge  Con'd  line 
pa}"^^  Jacob  ffrench  for  ruiiinge  y'  Line 
pa}-*^  Jonathn  Danforth  for  publique  service,  for  the 
To^^^le  3-10-   0 
1  1  interpret  the  obscure  original  of  the  last  clause  by  the  fact  !hat  two  churches  were 
present.  If  the  fignrts  are  "V2,"  as  they  look,  it  is  not  clear  what  the  abbrcTiations 
following  mean. 
0-   3- 
0 
0-    2- 
0 
4-10- 
S 
0-   1- 
10 
1-    0- 
0 
0-7- 
0 
0-2- 
0 
1-13- 
G 
2-   0- 
0 
1-12- 
6 
0-2- 
0 
0-    2- 
6 
0-2- 
6 
 - 92 - 
THE    STOET    AS    TOLD    IX    THE    RECORDS. 
"for  SO  p.  powder  4:  140  p.  bullets  &  2S  matoh.  for  a 
Towne  Stock  10  -   14  -  0 
pair'  for  a  cushion  for  t*  pulpit  «&  making  of  it  1-1-6 
charges  at  gathering  a  ch'^ch.  and  ordaining  Mr. 
Whitinge  6  -   1  -   S 
charges  about  the  meadows  on  t*  west  side  Concord 
rirer  6-17-   0 
pavi  Simon  Burd  for  provisions  he  caried  in  to  Mr. 
Whiting's  0-   9-   0 
to  George  ffarley  for  vewing  the  meadows.  2  days. 
and  Ralph  Hill  ct  John  Sterne  0  -  IS  -  0 
to  the  County  Treasurer  for  a  presentment  0-2-6 
for  a  gallon  of  Liq'^  to  the  Towne  from  hr  Tay.  when 
T*  mill  Lott  was  solde  0  -   S  -   0 
Due  more  in  John  Parker's  book  on  aconte  to  the 
07 : 9 :  
64  14-16-10 
Sume  is  just  61  -   11  -   6  " 
••pay^  to  Jonathan  Danforth  for  Laying  out  Land,  and  other  work,  by 
the  Towne  order,  since  the  22 : 1 :  
63.  as  followeth  : 
••for  Laying  out  the  mill  Lot.  44  acres,  platting  i 
recordinge  it.  at  2  p  i  pr  acr.  0  -   9  -   2 
for  Laying  out  12  acres  for  Eoger  Toothaker.  for 
land  exchanged  with  the  Towne;  boimding  and 
recording  it  0-2-6 
1  day's  work  before  as  one  of  the  cominee  about  the 
exchange  with  him  ,t  John  Eogers.  and  bounding 
and  recording  both  0  -   2  -   6 
2°» :  
64  Laying  out  ^2S3^  acres  to  severaU  men  for 
recompense  laud  at  2  p  -i  
pr  acr.  2 -    19  -   0 
for  Laying  out  ,  
33S^  acres  in  the  comon  feild.  on  the 
other  side  Concord  river,  to  several!  men  at  2  p  ^ 
pr.  acr.  3  -   10  -   6 
y«  STune  paid  to  Jonathan  Dan  :  
is        7 -   3  -   S 
6S-15-   2 
7 : 9 :  
64.   Reckoned  with  the  Townsmen  of  all  aconts, 
y«  consems  the  Towne  and  Jolui  Parker,  and  there 
remains  due  to  the  Towne  to  that  day  the  just 
sume  of  6-4-4 
 - 93 - 
CHAPTER   V 
BOUNDARIES. 
Shawshin  was  bounded  on  the  southwest  by  Concord,  southeast 
by  Cambridge  and  Woburn,  north  bj^  Andover  and  the  Merrimack 
River,  and  west  by  Concord  River.  By  the  changes  since  made, 
these  lines  have  been  so  completely  modified,  that  the  only  fragment 
of  the  Shawshin  bound  which  Billerica  retains  with  the  same  neigh- 
bor, is  
the  short  portion  of  Concord  River  between  the  Tewksbury 
line  on  the  east  and  the  Pawtucket  stake  on  the  west,  where  the 
Chelmsford  line  leaves  the  river.  The  Burlington  line  is  also  a  part 
of  the  early  boundar}',  but  "Woburn,  not  Burlington,  was  then  the 
neighbor  of  Billerica  there. 
The  first  change  was  made  when  Shawshin  became  Billerica,  in 
1655  ;  the  part  of  the  town  lying  west  of  Concord  River  being  then 
added.  The  line  of  this  enlargement  began  at  Pawtucket  stake, 
on  the  west  side  of  the  Concord  River,  nearly  three  miles  from  its 
mouth,  and  ran  43°  west  of  south,  the  present  Chelmsford  line,  four 
miles,  to  a  point  about  one-half  mile  south  of  the  Carlisle  line.  It 
then  turned  westward  36°  for  three  hundred  and  thirty-two  rods,  and 
reached  Major  Willard's  farm.  It  was  then  bounded  by  this  farm, 
south  46°  west  one  hundred  and  sixteen  rods,  south  41°  west  three 
hundred  and  eighty-four  rods,  to  a  point  in  the  old  line  of  Concord 
about  three  miles  and  one-quarter  west  of  the  river.  Following  the 
Concord  line  one  mile,  to  the  Blood's  farms,  its  course  was  along 
Blood's  line,  northerly,  easterl}',  and  then  southeast,  to  the  river, 
which  it  reached  between  the  Two  Brothers  and  the  present  line  of 
Carlisle.  Or,  if  we  assume  Billerica's  early  claim,  afterwards  jdelded 
to  Concord,  of  the  Blood's  farms,  this  old  line  of  Concord  and  Biller- 
ica ran  a  straight  course  south  53°  east  about  seven  miles,  to  a  point 
forty  rods  east  of  the  Shawshin,  passing  along  the  southern  slope  of 
the  village  of  Bedford,  between  the  Main  Street  and  the  depot. 
 - 94 - 
BOUNDARIES.  73 
Leaving  the  Concord  "old  line,"  the  boundaiy  with  Cambridge, 
afterwards  "Cambridge  Farms,"  and  Lexington  ran  northeast  to 
"the  pine  at  Cambridge,"  which  was  also  the  southwest  corner  of 
Wobnrn.  If  any  surve}'  or  description  exists  of  this  Cambridge 
line,  I  have  not  found  it ;  and  I  can  not  say  whether  it  was  direct  or 
angular.  But  the  present  bound  between  Bedford  and  Lexington, 
running  southwest  from  the  Burlington  corner,  would,  if  extended 
in  a  straight  line,  meet  the  Concord  "old  line"  so  nearly,  if  nbt 
exactl}',  at  the  point  in  question,  that  there  can  be  little  doubt  that 
this  was  the  old  Cambridge  and  Billerica  bound,  and  that  this  was  a 
straight  line  about  a  mile  in  length.  From  "the  pine  at  Cambridge," 
or  southwest  corner  of  Woburn,  the  Billerica  line  ran  a  nearly  straight 
course  one  mile  east  of  Shawshin  River  until  it  reached  Andover, 
a  distance  of  about  eight  miles.  The  course  of  the  Shawshin  is  too 
winding  to  make  such  a  line  easy  to  determine,  and  a  controversy 
naturally  arose  with  Woburn  in  reference  to  it.  But  the  skill  of  the 
early  surveyors,  Jonathan  Danforth  and  John  Sherman,  stood  the 
test,  and  the  line  first  run  b}'  Danforth  was  finally  accepted  by  both 
parties.  It  still  remains  as  the  west  line  of  Burlington  and  the 
east  line  of  Tewksbur}-  ;  but  Billerica  has  lost  the  short  portion 
of  it  which  Wilmington  took  from  Woburn,  that  corner  east  of 
the  Shawshin  having  been  granted  to  Wilmington  soon  after  its 
incorporation. 
Andover  retained  a  section  of  meadow  by  agreement  with  the 
Billerica  proprietors,  east  of  the  Shawshin,  which  would  have 
belonged  properly  to  this  town  ;  but,  from  the  Shawshin  to  the 
Merrimack,  the  line  was  direct  and  about  five  miles  long.  Thence, 
the  line  of  Billerica  followed  the  Merrimack  and  the  Concord  Rivers, 
until  it  reached  the  Pawtucket  stake  again,  a  distance  not  far  from 
three  miles  on  each  river.  All  these  lines  gave  ancient  Billerica  a 
circumference  of  35.5  miles.  Ever}'  change,  except  the  transfer  to 
Wilmington,  has  reduced  the  extent  of  the  boundary-,  which  is  now 
about  twent3'-five  miles. 
The  Andover  boundar}'  was  apparently  drawn  perpendicular  to  a 
line  connecting  the  two  meeting-houses,  and  was  to  be  six  miles  from 
the  Andover  meeting-house.  This  was  a  nearly  equal  division  of  the 
distance,  and  obviously  so  intended,  between  the  two  meeting-houses. 
For  some  compromise  or  consideration,  which  is  not  explained  in  the 
Records,  Andover  was  allowed  to  hold  the  meadows  on  the  east  of 
Shawshin  for  nearly  a  mile  beyond  this  line. 
 - 95 - 
74  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
The  earliest  reference  in  the  Records  to  the  Andover  line  appears 
thus  :  "3  :  7  :  60.  Jonathan  Danforth,  John  Parker,  and  [^no  name 
given,']  chosen  a  committee  to  prove  the  line  between  Andover  and 
o'  Towne  on  both  sides  the  river  of  Shawshin." 
No  record  is  given  of  the  action  of  this  committee,  but  the 
following  letter  appears  eight  months  after,  and  explains  itself:  — 
''a  letter  to  Andever,  6:3:  1661. 
•'■  
Loueiuge  ftriends  and  Neibors  :  Conserninge  the  meaddows  that  were 
granted  to  y^  Towne  by  the  Generall  Courte  within  our  boundes,  Nere 
Shawshin  River,  it  is  agreed  that  if  yu  will  except  of  the  Line  that  was 
Last  staked  at  the  olde  pine  that  is  fallen  downe,  acordinge  to  trees  then 
marked,  it  will  be  an  issew  ;  other  wayes,  if  you  will  not  except  it  there,  our 
towne's  mind  is  that  it  shall  be  measured  ;  y"  are  intreated  to  send  y"'  answer 
speedily  whether  y"  will  will  meashure  the  medow  or  except  the  Line;  but 
the  Towne  doe  not  consente  at  presente  to  alter  the  Line  of  the  upland." 
Andover  probably  accepted  the  line  already  run  ;  as,  if  it  had 
been  again  measured,  the  appointment  of  a  committee  for  the 
purpose  would  hardly  have  failed  of  record.  In  March  following 
a  committee  was  appointed  to  run  the  line  with  Andover  ;  and 
"23:  8:  1665,  Ralph  Hill,  Henery  Jeiffs,  and  Jonath  :  Danforth, 
are  appointed  to  run  the  line  between  Andever  and  oure  towne,  on 
y''  east  side  of  Shawshin  River,  and  to  lay  the  bounds  b}'  measure 
from  their  meeting  house." 
These  adjustments,  however,  were  not  final,  and  almost  twenty 
years  after  the  question  came  up  again. 
"At  a  meeting  of  the  Selectmen,  17,  2"',  1683.  They  do  appoint  and 
impower  these  psons.  whose  names  are  vnder  written,  to  state  &  establish 
the  bounds  between  Andover  and  our  towne,  on  the  east  side  ot  Shawshin 
River:  Provided  always,  that  they  state  it  but  six  miles  southward  of 
Andover  meeting  house;  (which,  as  we  vnderstand,  is  according  to  y^ 
Hon''  gen"  Court's  grant  to  them  in  that  place,)  or  that  they  state  it  from 
Woburn  line,  that  is,  from  y®  North  west  angle  of  Woburn  land  toward 
Andover,  &  so  to  square  to  Shawshin  River,  &  not  otherwise.  The  com- 
mittee are  ens.  Joseph  Tompson,  Corp".  John  french,  Jonathan  Danforth 
Sen""  Jonathan  Danforth  Jun""." 
Three  days  later  the  committees  of  the  two  towns  united  in  the 
following  agreement  : — 
"Whereas  the  bounds  between  Andover  and  Billerica  on  y^  east  side 
Shawshin  river  was  never  yet  fully  agreed  on  by  the  saide  townes  ;  by  an 
agreement  of  a  committee  chosen  by  each  towne,  with  full  power  for  that 
 - 96 - 
BOUNDARIES.  75 
end  abouesaid,  they  have  mutually  agreed  that  what  meadows  and  vpland 
Andover  hath  laid  out  to  perticular  persons,  on  the  east  or  southeast  side 
of  Shawshin  river  abovesaid,  before  the  date  hereof,  (excepting  a  peice 
of  meadow  laid  out  to  Steven  Johnson  of  Andover,)  shall  belong  to 
Andover,  though  it  should  fall  without  y^  limmits  the  generall  Court  hath 
granted  them  ;  and  what  vpland  Andover  hath  laid  claime  to,  hitherto,  that 
shall  fall  without  their  claime,  vpon  the  measure  of  their  six  miles,  shal 
belong  to  Billerica. 
''In  witness  that  this  is  our  mutuall  agreement,  we  have  herevnto  set 
our  hands,  this  twenty  of  Aprill  1683,  and  that  six  miles  shall  be  the  stated 
bounds  between  town  &  town,  only  as  abouesaid  excepted. 
''•a  greed  upon  for  Billerica, 
"Jonathan  Danforth  Sen"",  Joseph  Tompson,  John  french. 
'•  
By  Andover, 
"Dudley  Bradstreet,  John  Osgood,  Thomas  Chandler." 
When  this  agreement  came  before  the  selectmen,  we  find  the 
following  curious  and  significant  record.  To  appreciate  it,  we 
must  remember  that  the  three  members  of  the  committee  were 
all  selectmen,  who,  with  Ralph  Hill  and  Samuel  Manning,  composed 
the  board. 
"The  selectmen,  comparing  the  committee's  order  by  which  they  were 
to  act  with  what  they  returned  in  writing  vnder  their  hands,  as  abouesaid  : 
And  they  find  that  y^  said  committee  acted  beyound  the  power  committed 
to  them  ;  and  therefore  do  wholly  disallow  of  what  they  did,  acording  to 
what  they  returned  in  writing. 
"But,  the  said  committee,  declaring  that  their  agreement  was  not  fully 
WTitten  at  that  time,  for  want  of  paper  sutable  for  such  a  purpose,  and  that 
their  plaine  and  honest  agreement  was.  that  the  stated  boundes  betwene 
the  two  townes  shalbee  acording  to  y^  generall  Court's  grant,  i.  e.  six  mile 
from  Andover  meeting  house,  and  that  what  land  Andover  towne  had 
granted  &  recorded  in  their  towne  book  before  that  day,  to  any  of  their 
inhabitants,  (excepting  only  a  parcell  of  meadow  granted  to  Steven  Johnson 
of  Andover,)  shall  belong  to  the  severall  psons  to  whom  Andover  hath 
granted  them,  as  if  such  lands  had  bin  granted  to  y''  s^  psons  by  Billerica 
towne;  and  that  this  their  agreement  should  be  preferred  to  y^  Hon^d 
Generall  Court  for  their  confirmation  thereof. 
"The  Selectmen  doe  alow  and  confirm  such  agreement  as  this,  in  case 
Andover  do  consent  to  it ;  or  els  they  declare  all  which  was  done  by  y« 
comittee  to  be  anul<i  and  of  none  effect." 
A  committee  was  appointed,  "4  :  9  :  61,  to  run  the  Line  Nexte 
to  Chelmsford,"  consisting  of  Ralph  Hill,  Sen.,  Henry  Jefts,  and 
Jacob  Brown,  and,  in  1678,  Jefts  was  again  a  member  of  a  committee 
for  the  same  purpose.     But,  beyond  the  occasional  appointment  of 
 - 97 - 
76  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
such  committees,  the  Chelmsford  line  has  no  notice  in  the  Records. 
Consisting  of  the  river  and  of  a  straight  line,  no  controversy  ever 
arose  concerning  any  part  of  it. 
The  Concord  line,  however,  west  of  the  river,  was  complicated 
with  Blood's  farms,  and  the  disagreement  as  to  its  location  was 
serious,  requiring  the  interposition  of  the  General  Court  to  decide 
the  question.  The  germ  of  the  controvers}'  is  revealed  in  the  letter 
of  Major  Willard,  given  in  a  previous  chapter;^  but  it  was  not 
developed  until  a  generation  later.  The  following  petition  brings 
its  elements  into  view  : — 
"COXCORD,  Feb^.  7,  169|. 
"  To  the  Honfile  General  Court  :   &c. 
'•The  humble  petition  of  the  selectmen  of  Concord  and  Chelmsford,  on 
behalf  of  s''  towns,  Sheweth  :  That  whereas  there  is  a  considerable  pcell 
of  Land  Lying  between  the  towns  of  Concord  and  Chehusford  and  the 
Blood's  farms,  part  of  which  is  challenged  by  Billerica,  and  another  part 
by  Robert  Blood.  Sen.  ;  to  a  great  part  of  which  we  do  Imnibly  conceive 
the  said  Billericah  &  Blood  have  no  legall  or  just  title;  And  whereas  the 
said  land  lyes  at  a  great  distance  from  the  said  Billericah.  but  joins  upon 
the  said  Concord  &  Clielmsford;  Your  humble  petitioners  do  tlierefore, 
with  submission  to  this  Hon'^d  Court's  pleasure  &  wisdom,  pray  that  a 
committee  maybe  appointed  to  examine  the  claims  that  are  by  them  made 
to  s^  land,  and  the  lines  tliat  they  pretend  unto  ;  and  that,  in  case  their  just 
right  to  tlie  premises  can  not  be  demonstrated,  that  then  this  Honored 
Court  will  be  pleased  to  bestow  the  say''  lands  upon  the  aforesaid  towns  of 
Concord  &  Chelmsford,  as  an  iulargement,  and  your  petitiones  shall  ever 
pray,"  etc. 
"James  Hildreth.  Simon  Davis. 
JosiAH  Richardson.      Humphare  Barat. 
Joseph  Farwell.  Francis  Fletcher. 
Stephen  Peirce.  John  Wheeler. 
Thomas  Browne."' 
In  response  to  this  petition,  the  Court  appointed  Capt.  Thomas 
Brown,  of  Sudbury,  Lieutenant  Fiske,  of  Cambridge,  and  Mr. 
Joseph  Sherman,  of  Watertown,  "a  committee  to  view  the  lines 
between  Concord,  Chelmsford,  Billerica,  Weymesett,  and  the  Blood's 
farms,  or  any  lands  thereabouts  in  controversy  between  the  towns 
adjacent,  farms,  or  cuntr}-  lands,  near  said  Towns,  and  make  report 
whether  there  be  any  Cuntry  lands  left  there,  according  to  their 
particular  grants,  and  of  their  doings  therein,  at  the  next  session 
of  this  Court." 
1  See  p.  62.  2  See  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  CXIII,  24. 
 - 98 - 
BOUNDARIES.  77 
This  contest  with  Concord  and  Chelmsford  had  a  twofold  basis  : 
the  indefinite  terms  of  the  grant  to  Billerica,  in  1665,  and  the 
question  whether  it  was  designed  to  include  all  the  then  ungranted 
land  between  Concord  and  Chelmsford  ;  and  the  uncertain  bound 
of  Major  Willard's  farm,  which  was  one  of  the  Blood's  farms.  The 
Bloods  had  made  an  exchange  of  land  with  Billerica,  and  this 
controverted  line  was  included  in  the  exchange.  Major  Willard's 
farm  Of  one  thousand  acres,  which  had  been  given  b3'  him  to  Robert 
Blood,  who  married  his  daughter,  was  located  north  of  Concord  line 
and  on  both  sides  of  the  present  Ijoundary  between  Acton  and 
Carlisle.  It  bounded  Billerica  on  the  west,  and  gave  occasion  for 
the  following:  A  committee  report,  "22:  12:  58.  We  did  meet 
the  Major  and  stated  y"  Line  of  his  farme,  and  b}'  the  Major's 
advice  and  aprobatione  ;  and  also  we  then  made  an  exchange  for 
pr'  thereof  with  Robert  Blood  for  sume  scurts  of  Landes  adjoining 
to  his  farme  that  he  purchased  of  Mr.  Hough,  of  Redinge."  A  few 
days  later  the  town  voted  that  this  agreement  should  be  perfected 
b}'  the  same  committee;  and,  "6:  3:  61,  the  whole  agreemente 
with  Robert  Blood  and  the  said  committee  was  confirmed  fully,  as 
appears  by  writings  drawne  and  sealed  and  subscribed  between  the 
said  Robert  and  vs,  in  behalf  of  the  towne." 
At  the  session  of  the  General  Court,  in  Maj',  1655,  when 
Shawshin  received  its  enlargement  west  of  Concord  River,  Concord 
also  received  a  grant  of  five  thousand  acres,  known  in  her  later 
history  as  "Concord  Village,"  now  the  substantial  part  of  Acton. 
In  the  petition  for  this  grant,  the  petitioners  sa}',^  "we  finde  about 
seven  thousand  acres  left  out,  of  which  Major  Willard  hath  two 
thousand  acres,  except  a  little  part  of  one  end  of  his  farme,  which 
Lyes  in  the  place  or  parcell  of  vacant  land  that  was  since  given  to 
Shawshine."  This  Concord  petition  has  curious  interest  to  Billerica 
in  two  particulars.  It  recognizes  the  grant  to  Billerica  of  the  ver\^ 
same  tract  which,  in  1693,  the  representatives  of  Concord  and 
Chelmsford  sought  to  wrest  from  Billerica.  And  the  date  of  this 
recognition  is  so  earl}',  in  that  ver}'  May,  1655,  as  apparentl}'  to 
imply  that  the  action  of  the  Deputies  in  October,  1654,  granting 
the  petition  of  Shawshin,  as  already  given,*  was  recognized  as 
binding,  although  not  confirmed  by  the  Magistrates  until  May  30, 
1655, 
3  Shattuck's  Concord,  p.  39.  *  
Ante,  pp.  17  and  18. 
 - 99 - 
78  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
By  the  exchange  made  with  Blood,  Billerica  gave  hhn  a  strip 
adjoining  Mr.  Hough's  grant,  and  received  an  equivalent  from  the 
Willard  Farm,  and  with  it  the  question  afterwards  raised  as  to  its 
boundary.  In  1G65,  Danforth  surveyed  and  mapped  Blood's  farm; 
and  his  description  was  produced  in  a  controversy  which  arose  in 
1683.*  At  that  time,  Blood,  in  his  petition  dated  May  IGth,  recites 
facts  given  above  about  the  meeting  with  Billerica  committee,  and 
adds,  "afterwards,  y^  said  Major  Willard,  meeting  with  a  committee 
of  Concord,  did  with  them  so  state  the  bounds  of  the  farme,  without 
the  knowledge  either  of  y^  towne  of  Billerikey  or  y^  aforesaid  Robert 
Blood,  which  was  recorded  in  the  town  book  of  Concord,  which  was 
not  then  in  his  power  to  do,  having  already-  set  the  bounds  in  part 
and  left  it  with  the  said  Robert  to  perfect  them,  as  appears  in  a 
letter  of  his,  sent  to  Mr.  John  Parker." 
The  letter  of  Major  Willard®  confirms  this  statement.  The 
whole  transaction  shows  that  good  men  were  as  liable  to  err  then 
as  now,  and  that  human  nature  has  not  changed  much  in  two 
hundred  A^ears. 
But  the  result  of  Blood's  controversy-  with  Concord,  at  this  time, 
was  an  arrangement  by  which,  with  certain  privileges,  he  and  his 
farms  should  henceforth  belong  to  Concord,  and  his  prior  and  rather 
undefined  relation  to  Billerica  was  terminated. 
Ten  3-ears  later.  Concord  and  Chelmsford,  as  shown  in  the 
petition  given  above,  sought  to  wrest  from  Billerica  the  western 
part  of  its  early  extension,  and  divide  it  between  themselves. 
The  reply  made  by  Billerica  has  not  been  preserved  ;  and  it 
might,  perhaps,  have  been  made  more  conclusive,  had  Billerica 
been  aware  of,  and  able  to  quote,  the  above  admissions  of  Concord's 
representatives  in  1655.  But  the  controversy  remained  undecided, 
and,  1698,  November  17,  a  petition  of  Billerica  gives  her  statement 
of  the  question  at  issue  : — '' 
"Whereas  your  honours  well  know  that  our  humble  petition  for  the 
confirmation  of  a  tract  of  land,  granted  by  this  Honourable  Court  to  our 
Towne,  for  our  incouragement,  to  settle  a  plantation  where  we  now  live 
(about  40  years  since)  have  been  before  your  Honours;  and  about  four 
years  last  past,  we  followed  it  at  severall  sessions,  and  again  renewed  our 
peticon  the  last  May;  and  since  that,  as  we  understand,  this  Honourable 
Assembly  have  spent  very  considerable  time  about  it,  and  yet  no  issue  ;  we 
yet  again  humbly  pray,  that  an  aspect  of  your  favour  might  be  towards 
6  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  XXXIX,  859.    Blood's  petition  is  No.  858. 
«  See  p.  62.  '  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  CXIII,  198. 
 - 100 - 
BOUNDARIES.  79 
US,  to  prevent  our  plantation  from  breaking  up  or  brealiing  in  peicess,  after 
all  that  charge  we  have  been  at,  And  hazards  that  we  have  run,  to  keep  our 
ground  hitherto  &  not  broke  wliolly  in  piecess.  We  humbly  pray,  that  the 
wrong  information  that  the  Court  hath  had  from  Abraham  Parlier,  or  any 
other  person  ill-minded  to  us,  may  not  be  taken  notice  of,  who  hath  much 
conserned  himself  for  his  own  private  interest,  and  far  beyond  what  he 
had  order  for  from  their  To\^^le  to  do  in  this  case.  We  still  asert,  as  we 
did  before,  our  case  is  Honest.  We  have  neither  deceived  the  Court,  nor 
wronged  any  of  our  Neiglibors.  We  had  real  need  when  we  beg"!  it,  and 
now  shall  be  left  ten  times  worse,  if  taken  from  us,  than  if  it  had  been 
never  granted  ;  for  we  lotted  out  all  that  was  good  in  it  to  our  inhabitants 
about  35  years  since;  and  many  persons  have  sould  their  alotments  to 
others,  and  themselves  now  dead,  &  their  children  not  able  to  make  good 
their  father's  sale  ;  neither  hath  our  town  any  meadow  yet  Ij'ing  in  common 
to  recompense  them  that  shall  lose  their  meadoAvs  therein.  We  still  own 
that  our  first  petieion,  which  was  about  43  years  past,  was  worded  too 
short  ;  it  wanted  Bounding  at  the  west  end ;  we  could  not  then  help  it,  for 
Concord  had  not  then  laid  out  their  village,  neither  had  Mr.  Willard  laid 
out  his  thousand  acres,  neither  was  Mr.  Hough's  farm  of  fower  hundred 
acres  laid  out,  nor  Mr.  Weld's  farm  of  five  hundred  and  thirty  acres 
laid  out.  Hence,  we  could  not  Bound  it,  and  it  is  not  yet  three  years 
since  some  of  them  was  finished,  or  but  little  past;  but  now  we  know 
what  is  left  in  common.  And  now  we  pray  this  Honourable  Court  to 
confirm  to  us,  the  inhabitants  of  Billerica,  our  heirs  and  sucksessours,  all 
the  common  and  waste  land,  not  formerly  granted  by  this  Court  to  any 
other,  lying  between  Concord  Eiver  &  Chelmsford  line  on  the  North, 
Concord  toAvnship  &  their  village  line  westward,  and  southward  by  the 
fSrms  granted  to  IVIr.  Nowell,  Mr.  Alin  &  Mr.  Hough,  which  land  is  now 
possessed  by  Robert  Blood  ;  and  that  Robert  Blood  might  be  ingadged  to 
shew  us  the  bounds  of  his  land,  for  this  forty  years  hath  he  refused  to 
shew  them  ;  of  some  of  them  no  record  is  to  be  found  in  Court  rolls,  nor 
of  any  confirmation  of  them  as  he  hath  laid  them  out.  Now,  we  humbly 
pray  this  honourable  court  to  consider  our  necessity  and  grant  to  us  our 
humble  request  at  this  sessions  ;  And  as  for  the  charge  the  Committee  was 
at  about  it,  we  are  willing  to  discharge  it;  But  as  for  Abraham  Parker's 
bill,  we  pray  it  may  be  considered  we  can  prove  it  unreasonable,  and 
above  half  the  charge  without  any  order  from  Chelmsford.  So  shall  your 
humble  petitioners  continue  to  pray  &  remain  your  humble  servants. 
'•In  the  Name  and  behalf  of  the  Town: 
"Jonathan  Danforth.       John  Lane. 
Joseph  Tompson.  James  Frost. 
Jonathan  Hill." 
The   results   of  this  petition  and   progress   of  the   controversy 
appear  in  another  petition  of  Billerica,*  in  Ma}',  1700:  — 
8  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  CXIII,  217. 
 - 101 - 
80  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
a  *  Whereas  report  hath  formerly  been  made  unto  this  honourable 
house,  as  if  the  town  of  Billerika  did  encroach  upon  the  Countrj^'s  land.  <fe 
that  report  so  far  received  by  this  honorable  house,  that  our  town  hath 
bene  sent  unto  by  this  honoi'able  house  to  Render  our  Eesons,  if  any  we 
had,  why  such  land  might  not  otherwaj'S  be  disposed  of;  the  which  we 
gave  in  March  5,  1694-5,  which  we  hope  have  been  considei-ed  of  by  this 
house;  and  have  divers  sessions  been  waiting  upon  this  honorable  house 
for  the  confirmation  of  the  bounds  of  our  plantation,  that  part  thereof 
which  lyeth  on  the  west  of  Concord  river,  but  still  we  remain  unsettled,  to 
the  great  discouragement  of  our  plantation.  Our  last  petition  we  presented 
unto  this  honorable  house  was  granted  iune  20,  1698  ;  but  it  pleased  not  the 
honorable  Council  at  that  time  to  concurr  therewith,  but  rather  to  appoint 
a  Committee  to  go  upon  the  ground,  which  yet  hath  not  bene  done.  The 
circumstances  of  our  plantation  hath  sometime  bene  laid  before  this 
honora))le  house,  &  before  several  of  the  Council  more  particularly.  That 
the  fathers,  or  first  planters  of  our  plantation,  petitioned  the  General  Court 
for  a  tract  of  land  between  Concord  line  &  Chelmsford  line,  on  the  west  of 
Concord  river,  is  clere  upon  record,  bearing  date  May,  1655,  and  that  our 
petition  was  granted  the  same  Court  for  our  incouragement  to  make  a 
plantation.  And  although  the  petitioners,  the  beginners  of  our  plantation, 
did  not.  in  their  petition,  fully  express  what  they  intended,  for  doubtless 
they  petitioned  for  all  that  waste  land,  in  that  place,  which  bj'^  the  Artis' 
return  in  the  survey  thereof,  amounts  to  or  contains  about  six  thousand 
acres;  and  in  regard  the  whole  of  our  Township,  that  we  have  planted 
upon,  we  had  not  one  foot  of  it  granted  by  the  Country  unto  us  ;  it  was 
granted  unto  the  Town  of  Cambridge  &  laid  out  in  farms  &  divided  into  an 
hundred  &  fiftene  alotments,  which  we  have  been  purchasing  of  them  as 
we  could,  &  have  not  yet  clered  them  ;  so  that  our  plantation  never  yet 
hath  had  that  incouragement  from  the  countrye  as  other  plantations  had 
then  at  their  beginning.  We  prayed,  in  our  first  petition,  for  a  small  tract 
of  land,  but  then  could  not  be  so  particular  in  the  boundary  thereof,  because 
there  was  fouer  farms  contained  therein  to  be  laid  out  before  we  could 
know  what  was  certainly  our  own,  the  last  of  which  hath  been  but  lately 
laid  out.  And,  because  we  understood  that,  by  the  answer  of  our  petition, 
we  were  not  to  touch  upon  any  propriety,  we  did  hope  that  what  was  not 
appropriated  had  been  ours  &  accordingly  have  alotted  out  the  same,  bought 
&  sould  &  have  run  our  lines  with  our  neighbors  plantations,  about  fourty 
year,  Chelmsford  Northwai'd  of  us  &  Concord  Westward,  without  any 
disquietment  *  *  by  reason  of  our  public  calamityes  have  been  long 
laboring  under  many  discouraging  circumstances,  being  a  frontier  &  having 
been  at  sundry  times  broken  in  upon  by  the  enemie,  but  have  stood  our 
ground  hitherto,  but  have  reson  to  feare  if  your  petitioners  be  not  favored 
we  shall  be  broken  *  *  that  your  petitions  may  quietly  possess  what 
this  honorable  house  shall  confirm  unto  us,  that  so  our  harts  &  our  hands 
maj"  be  strengthened  to  discharge  those  dutys  that  we  do  owe  unto  God, 
our  Soueraigne,  &  your  honours,  &  be  farther  obliged  to  pray  for  Divine 
asistance  upon  this  great  asembly  in  y^  management  of  y^  weighty  concerns 
before  them.    Your  humble  supplicant,  Joseph  Tompson, 
"In  the  behalf  of  the  Town  of  Billerika." 
 - 102 - 
BOUNDARIES.  81 
These  petitions  may  not  be  models  of  condensation,  but  the^^ 
deserve  the  careful  study  of  all  who  seek  to  understand  the  position 
and  feelings  of  the  founders  of  the  town.  They  repeat  the  fact, 
often  mentioned  and  with  justice,  that  the  connection  with  Cam- 
bridge at  
first,  instead  of  aiding  the  settlers,  had  been  a  serious 
tax  to  them,  in  the  necessity  of  purchasing  the  Cambridge  titles, 
when  a  grant  direct  from  the  Court  would  have  involved  no  such 
expenditure. 
This  burden  was  in  part  relieved  by  the  successive  grants  west 
of  Concord  River,  af  Naticott,  and  the  later  gift  of  four  thousand 
acres  ;  but  the  relief  was  onl}^  partial,  and  the  embarrassment  would 
certainly  have  been  disastrous  if  their  title  to  the  first,  after  fort}^ 
years'  oecupanc}',  had  proved  invalid. 
The  Court  answered  this  petition  by  the  appointment  of  a 
committee,  consisting  of  Col.  Elisha  Hutchins,  Esq.,  Maj.  James 
Converse,  Capt.  Benjamin  Garfield,  and  Maj.  Jonathan  Tyng,  "or 
any  three  of  them,  to  view  and  settle  the  lines  between  the  town 
of  Billerica  &  the  farmes  of  John  &  Robert  Blood,  &  the  line 
between  said  town  and  the  Towns  of  Concord  &  Chelmsford." 
The  report  of  this  coftimittee,  and  action  of  the  Court,  were  as 
follows  : — ® 
"Anno  R  R*  Gulielmi  decimo  tercio. 
"At  a  great  &  generall  Court  or  Assembly  for  his  majesty's  province 
of  Massachusetts  Bay,  begun  &  held  at  boston,  upon  Wednesday,  28">  of 
May,  1701. 
"■Whereas  Major  Jonathan  Tyng.  Maj''.  James  Converse  &  Capt.  Benja- 
min Garfield,  a  Committee  [as  above]  have  reported  their  doings  therein,  as 
f  
oUoweth  : 
"That  is  to  say,  that  as  well  by  their  own  view  of  the  lines,  Court 
Grants  and  Deeds  produced  to  them,  as  on  hearing  of  what  was  otferred  by 
the  agents  of  the  severall  Towns,  they  find  the  land  of  Billerika  bounded 
by  the  line  of  Chelmsford  northward,  beginning  at  Pautucket  stake,  so 
called,  by  Concord  Paver,  where  Chelmsford  &  Billerika  &  the  Indians  do 
meet,  then  Chelmsford  line  runneth  south  fourty  three  degrees  west  to 
pillar  of  stones  :  then  it  rufieth  south,  seventy  nine  degrees  west,  three 
hundred  thirty  &  two  poles  ;  which  reacheth  unto  Major  Willard's  faruie 
to  a  great  heap  of  stones  lying  in  Chelmsford  line  ;  then  the  Major's  farm 
ruiieth  southwardly  fourty  six  degrees  west,  one  hundrd.  &  sixtenc  pole  to 
a  little  white  oake.  Then  it  ruiieth  south,  fourty  one  degrees  west,  three 
hundrd.  eighty  &  fower  pole,  which  reacheth  to  a  marked  pine,  in  Concord 
3  Reco7-ds,  IT,  p.  231. 
 - 103 - 
82  HISTORY   OF   BILLERICA. 
village  line,  near  to  a  place  cab^  bery  corner  ;  then  it  is  bounded  by  Concord 
line,  one  mile  on  the  southwest  ;  it  is  bounded  southward  by  a  line  which 
was  run  by  the  above  said  coniinittee.  betwixt  the  Bloods  &  Billerika,  which 
Ran  from  a  pine  called  Allin's  corner,  south,  eighty  &  five  degrees  west, 
five  hundrd.  &  sixtene  pole,  to  a  great  white  oake  marked  B.  B.  ;  then  it 
runs  from  thence  fourty  degrees  west,  one  hundrd.  seaventy  &  four  pole, 
which  reached  unto  Concord  line  againe,  It  is  bounded  north  east  &  south 
east,  east,  &  south  east,  by  Concord  RfVer. 
'•'Besolved,  That  the  s<i  
report  be  accepted  &  approved  &  the  Boundaries 
&  lines  of  the  Towns  &  lands  above  named,  stated  &  setled  accordingly. 
'•Isaac  Addington,  Secretary.'''' 
The  survey  which  accompanied  and  explained  this  description  is 
fortunately  preserved  in  the  office  of  the  Secretary  of  State.  This 
makes  plain  points  which  are  obscure,  giving  the  length  of  the  first 
named  Chelmsford  line  from  Pawtucket  stake,  four  miles.  It  shows 
also  that,  in  running  the  line  between  Billerica  and  the  Bloods,  the* 
committee  began  at  the  northwest  corner  of  the  Allen  grant,  and 
ran  back  to  the  point  previoush'  reached  in  the  Concord  line.  This 
issue  of  the  contest  gave  Concord  and  Chelmsford  nothing,  and 
vindicated  the  justice  of  the  claim  of  Billerica.  Whether  it  gave 
Billerica  any  less  than  she  claimed,  on  the  side  of  the  Bloods,  does 
not  appear. 
The  Woburn  boundary  is  first  descrilbed  in  the  following  record  : 
'•15'i'  and  16"'  days  of  y*^  
9'^  mo.,  1659. 
''the  line  betwene  this  towne  and  Wooberne  was  Eun  and  marked  and 
agreed  upon  to  stand  for  propriety  by  Captin  Edward  Johnson  and  John 
Wyman  and  James  Convers  for  Wooberne  ;  and  Ralph  Hill.  Sen'',  and 
George  Farley  and  John  Parker  for  Billericey,  and  Jonathan  Danforth, 
Artiste,  who  did  j-e  work  for  both  townes.  The  line  was  run  two  poynt 
and  half  easterly  of  y<^  North,  set  of  from  the  river  in  o'"  old  line  formerly 
Run  from  Cambridge  Boundes.  from  a  black  oake  Nere  y^  cait  path, 
Leading  from  Billericey  to  Wooberne  ;  y'= line  continued  about  3  miles,  and 
then  by  agrem*  of  the  comite  and  Artiste,  set  on  againe  two  poynts  of  the 
compass  toward  the  river,  and  so  continued  to  Andevere  boundes." 
The  designation  of  the  road  to  Woburn  as  "the  cart  path"  gives 
us  a  glimpse  of  the  character  of  the  principal  highway'  through  the 
town,  in  1059.  The  "set  of"  near  that  road  was  made  to  preserve, 
approximatel}',  the  distance  of  one  mile  from  Shawshin  River,  which 
was  to  be  the  west  bound  of  Woburn,  according  to  its  original 
grant,  and  may  be  seen  on  an}'  map  of  Burlington  and  Billerica. 
The    other    "set    on,"    three    miles    north,    has    disappeared    with 
 - 104 - 
BOUNDARIES.  83 
the  cession  to  Wilmington  ;  but  the  difference  in  hearing  between 
the  present  west  hne  of  Burlington  and  east  line  of  Tewksbury 
corresponds  with  this  original  description. 
But  this  line  did  not  escape  contention,  of  which  the  following 
record  gives  the  outline  : — ^^ 
'•  
1666,  23  Mmj. 
"In  answer  to  a  motion  made  to  this  Court  by  M'.  Humphry  Davy,  
in 
the  behalfe  of  Billirikey,  that  tlie  bounds  may  be  settled  
between  them  and 
Woobome,  it  is  ordered  that  Mr.  Edward  Collins,  Capt.  Timothy  Wheeler, 
&  Left.  Richard  Beers,  do  repaire  to  the  place  where  the  ground  
of  the 
dilference  doe  arise,  and  according  to  wliat  sliall  appeare  to  be  the  
right  of 
eacli  place  by  grant  from  this  Court,  &  not  otherwise  determined  
by  the 
mutuall  concession  of  the  grantees  or  their  assignees,  to  settle  
the  lines 
betweene  the  sajd  tonnes,  being  authorized  &  impouered  as  a  
comittee 
to  that  end;  and  what  they  shall  doe  herein  to  be  a  final  issue  
of  that 
controversy,  &  returne  it  to  this  Court  to  be  recorded." 
This  Committee  made  report  in  October  : — 
''  *  *  We  haue  determined  that  the  Ijne  of  divission  betweene  the 
tounes  shall  run  from  the  pinetree  at  Cambridge  Corner,  by  a  streight  Ijne 
to  the  marked  tree  nere  the  old  foote  path  from  Wooberne  to  Billirrikey,  at 
the  corner  of  Elder  Champney's  farme  ;  &  what  euer  land  hath  biun  layd 
out  by  Wooborne  toune,  one  that  side  next  Billirica  to  John  VV^ymans  & 
ffrancis  Wyman,  shall  remain  to  the  said  Wymans;  and  that  the  Ijne  of 
divission  betweene  the  sajd  tounes,  in  all  other  places,  shall  runn  as  it  is 
stated  by  the  order  of  the  Generall  Court,  i.  e.  a  mile  from  the  river." 
This  report  was  confirmed  by  the  Court.  The  arrangement, 
however,  was  of  short  continuance,  and  the  whole  question  was 
soon  reopened,  as  appears  from  the  following:  — 
"petition  ABoirr  woburn  bounds." 
"The  tovene  of  Bilrica  humbly  present  to  this  honnored  Courte  :  That 
whereas  they  have  formerly  se^ral  times  made  application  to  this  honnored 
Courte  for  settlinge  the  lyne  between  Wooborne  and  them  accordinge  to  the 
first  graunt  of  the  Courte  to  bee  a  mile  from  the  Riuer.  The  magistrates, 
as  sensible  thereof,  hauing  since  passed  somethinge  in  order  thereunto, 
which  yet  is  not  consented  to  by  the  Deputies.  The  said  Towne  of  Biller- 
ica,  findinge  themselues  agreeved  by  what  hath  been  ah-eady  done  about 
Drawing?  the  line,  as  hath  been  formerly  declared  to  this  honored  Courte  : 
i»  Colonial  Records.    Vol.  IV,  Part  ii,  pp.  300-325.    Also  Town  Records.    Vol.  I,  p.  80. 
"  Masmchtisetts  Archives.    Vol.  CXII,  Nos.  195  and  19(>. 
 - 105 - 
84  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
"They  humbly  intreate  the  Consideration  of  what  farther  they  haue  to 
Demonstrate  in  a  few  words:  first,  That  Whereas  it  is  alleadged,  that  the 
first  parte  of  the  lyne  was  Ran  by  Cambridoe  and  Wooborne  before  Billerica 
was  a  towneship.  &  therefore  to  stand,  although  114  pole  nearer  the  riuer 
than  a  niyle ;  which  is  contrary  to  the  courts  graunt.  To  which  we  say, 
first,  that  there  is  no  record  to  be  found  thereof  &  onely  one  person  of 
Cambridge  alive  who  did  act  therein.  &  he  doth  testifie  that  their  agreement 
concerning  it  was.  that  the  wrong  done  in  coming  too  neare  in  that  part  of 
the  line  should  be  made  good  in  Drawing  the  rest  of  the  line,  which  was 
afterwards  ran  By  Ensign  Sherman,  but  no  satisfaction  made  for  the  former 
Defect,  as  doth  appeare  by  this  draught,  for  he  onely  intended  a  myle  from 
the  riuer  according  to  a  common  line.  And,  Secondly,  we  finde  that  where 
he  began  this  last  line,  it  wants  47  pole  of  a  mile  from  some  part  of  the 
riuer  &  it  wants  30  pole  from  the  utmost  angle  of  the  riuer  in  a  direct  lyne, 
and  from  the  end  of  the  old  lyne  at  the  Crooke  to  the  riuer  it  wants  114 
pole  of  a  mile  to  the  riuer.  as  hath  been  proved  bj^  IJeut.  Fisher  about  a 
week  since,  &  therefore  no  satisfaction  is  made  nor  any  agreement  past 
between  both  towns  that  should  take  off"  the  force  of  the  Court's  order. 
Therefore,  once  more  we  humbly  intreate  this  honored  Courte,  that  the 
crooke  which  is  in  the  lyne  may  be  made  straight  &  that  allone  will  satisfie 
us;  also,  it  will  easily  be  done  in  one  day  by  an  artist,  without  further 
trouble. 
"May  it  please  this  honnered  Courte  to  considt  r  that  it  is  not  the 
quantity  of  the  land  that  we  strive  for,  but  it  Is  the  loss  of  the  benefitt  of 
a  great  farme,  which  the  Wyman's  bought  in  our  tow^ne,  &  carry  the  profit 
of  it  to  Wooburne,  who  are  farr  better  accommodated  to  beare  their  own 
charge  than  for  our  poor  towne  to  loose  8  or  \0^^  p  annum  (of  what  should 
help  beare  up  our  charges)  to  maintain  theirs,  besides  the  loss  of  so  much 
land,  which  is  yet  our  just  right,  accordinge  to  the  honnored  Genneral 
Courte  graunt. 
•'P.  Humphrey  Davie  for 
"ye  towne  of  Billerica."' 
"This  may  Certify  wiiomsoever  it  may  consern,  that  I,  Joshua  Fisher 
of  Dedham,  being  at  Billerica  about  the  10  of  May.  1669,  with  my  instru- 
ments, was  desired  to  try  the  length  or  distance  from  the  line  betw^een 
Obourne  &  Billerica,  at  a  place  where  there  is  a  settinge  off  in  that  line,  to 
try  how  far  it  was  from  thence  to  Billerica, riuer  ;  which  accordingly  I  did 
&  found  it  to  be  from  the  end  of  the  old  line  formerly  run  by  Cambridge 
men  &  Obourne,  as  I  was  informed  divers  years  since  the  rimninge,  &  there 
I  f(mnd  it  to  be  206  rod  to  the  riuer,  or  so  farr  as  a  parralell  line  to  that  line 
cutts  the  riuer  in  divers  places,  and  froui  the  end  of  that  line  froui  the  river 
ward,  where  there  was  a  set  off  into  Oburne  bouue.  as  I  was  informed,  done 
by  Ensign  Sherman  not  long  since,  to  a  stake  by  him  or  his  direction 
piched.  I  found  it  67  rod,  so  that  from  that  stake  to  the  riuer  it  is  290  rod, 
which  want  30  rod  of  a  mile  to  the  riuer,  which  was  measured  into  a  point 
of  upland  that  runs  in  at  that  place,  the  riuer  being  on  both  sides  of  it 
 - 106 - 
BOUNDARIES.  85 
divers  rods  nearer  the  stake  from  whence  we  measured,  so  that  I  doe 
conceive  that  if  a  straight  line  were  run  from  c  to  d,  as  it  is  marked  in  the 
plat,  it  would  [indecipherable,  mostly  lost,']  answer  the  grant  of  the  General 
Courte  made  to  Billerica,  though  it  would  not  be  a  mile  from  the  riuer  in 
divers  places,  &  the  proprietie  of  the  land  might  remaine  to  each  grantee, 
if  it  be  granted  out  by  either  of  the  towns,  and  the  jurisdiction  belong  to 
each  town  accordinge  as  the  straight  line  should  devide  them.  I  judge  not 
the  case,  but  only  inform  how  I  found  it  &  so  leave  it  to  them  concerned. 
"Joshua  ffisher. 
"Dediiam.  24  May,  1G69." 
'"In  answer  unto  this  .motion  made  by  Billerica  Inhabitants,  the  case 
being  fully  heard  at  last  Gen''  Court,  both  ptyes  then  appearing.  This 
Court  do  judge  meet  and  for  a  finall  issue  of  all  complaynts  conclude  that 
a  committee  of  equal  minded  &  judicious  men  be  nominated  &  impowered 
to  run  &  determine  the  lin^  between  Woburne  &  Billerica  from  one  end  to 
another,  attending  the  Courts  graunt,  not  to  come  within  a  mile  of  Shawshin 
riuer  ;  viz*,  the  comon  line  of  the  Riuer  duly  to  be  taken  &  sett  by  some 
able  Artist;  and  in  case  it  do  appeare  that  the  eomplayut  of  Billerica  hath 
been  causeless,  they  shall  then  defray  all  the  charges  thereof.  The  Majistry 
have  passed  this,  their  brethi'en  the  deputies  thereto  consenting,"  etc. 
The  result  was  that  a  committee  of  the  Court  and  representatives 
of  both  towns  united,  1669,  October  1,  in  recommending  "that 
the  line  of  divission  between  the  two  tonnes,  last  made  b}'  Ensign 
Sherman,  by  order  of  the  Committee  of  the  General!  Court,  shall 
stand  as  it  doeth.  And  whereas  Francis  &  John  Wej'mans  Seniors 
haue  their  present  habitations  neere  the  Ijne  aforesajd,  &  enjoying 
much  of  their  liuelyhood  &  benefit  at  both  tonnes,  &.  ma}"  pertake 
of  the  publicque  ordinances  in  both  places,  they,  the  sajd  Wej-mans, 
shall  contribute  equally  to  both  tonnes  in  all  publicke  charges,  both 
ciuill  «fe  eeclesiasticall." 
This  recommendation  the  Court  consented  to  and  confirmed,  "to 
be  vnderstood  the  half  of  what  they  should  haue  payd  to  either 
toune,  if  they  had  been  wholly  in  either  of  them  ;  and  that  Wooborne 
S:^all  take  the  valluation  of  the  Weymans  estates  for  the  country 
rate,  as  formerly,  and  give  a  true  account  of  the  same  aiiually  to 
Billerrica,  who  shall  haue  power  annually  to  demand  &  receiue  all 
tonne  charges  (according  to  that  order)  of  the  sajd  Wej-mans,  as 
if  they  were  inhabitants." 
This  adjustment  did  not  satisfy  the  Wymans,  who  petitioned  the 
Court  for  relief;    and,  in  response,^-  "27:  3™:  1672.     The  Toune 
»2  Records.    Vol.  I,  p.  102. 
 - 107 - 
86  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
hailing  considered  the  ease,  after  much  agitation,  doe  agree  (with 
one  consent)  to  stand  to  3"  generall  Court's  order  conserning  y"  said 
agreement,  desiring  y*'  continuance  of  y^  same,  vnlesse  y''  Hon''^^ 
Court  would  please  to  giue  vs  our  streight  line,  which  we  should 
haue  had  at  y**  
first,  according  to  Court  grant  ;  neither  will  y^  toune 
consente  to  take  it  out  of  y'^  
hands  of  y'^  Honore*^  Court,  to  put  it 
into  a  Comittee's  hand  to  end." 
But  the  town  was  not  successful  in  this  issue  with  the  W^mans. 
At  least,  the  agreement  was  soon  after  declared  void.  Whether  the 
rectification  of  the  town  line  was  secured  in  connection  with  this 
rupture  of  the  agreement  does  not  appear,  but  is  probable.  The 
line  is,  and  has  been,  a  straight  line,  and  no  other  date  or  occasion 
for  making  it  so  is  indicated  in  the  Records,. and  on  this  supposition 
the  policy  of  the  town  was  in  fact  successful. 
No  other  question  arose  as  to  the  boundaries  of  the  town,  and 
no  other  changes  were  made  until  the  incorporation  of  Bedford  and 
Tewksbury,  in  the  next  generation. 
 - 108 - 
CriAPTER    VI. 
ROADS     AND     BRIDGES. 
The  earl}'  highways  were  ver}'  primitive.  A  path  through  the 
forest,  marked  by  blazed  trees,  was  sufficient  for  this  distinction  ; 
and  the  marking  was  often  so  imperfect  that  questions  would  arise, 
after  a  few  years,  as  to  the  actual  location  ;  different  wood-paths 
becoming  the  subject  of  neighborly  contention.  But  the  fathers 
understood  the  importance  of  roads  quite  as  well  as  their  children. 
Among  the  earUest  town  orders  is  one  relating  to  this  subject.^ 
'•'•9:  9:  58.  Also  for  our  work  in  ye  highways,  it  is  agreed  that  it 
shall  be  done  as  followeth  :  i. e.  every  male  of  sixtene  years  old  &  upward 
shall  come  in  to  Avorke  in  y®  highways,  acording  as  due  warning  shalbe 
given  by  j"  Surveyours,  chosen  for  y^  well  ordering  of  the  same.  And  so 
all  that  have  oxen  shal  come  in  with  their  teames  also,  vntill  y«  worke  be 
done  in  y«  country  highways. 
''And  for  such  as  ai-e  proprietors  with  us.  and  are  non  resident  in  this 
toune.  They  shall  all  do  their  proportions  when  they  come  vp,  both  psons 
and  teames,  themselves  or  others  for  them,  such  as  the  surveyors  shall 
approve  of  for  y*  worke.  both  persons  &  teames.  Also  y^  surveyors  shall 
keep  a  true  account  of  everv  man's  work  from  time  to  time. 
"And  it  is  further  ordered  &  agreed,  that  the  surveyors  shall  have  no 
power  to  make  or  mend  any  but  country  roads  at  y^  towne  charge,  without 
ye  consent  of  tlie  whole  towne  and  by  their  order.  And  for  non-appearance 
after  due  warning  given  as  aforesaid,  both  persons  &  teames,  any  person 
neglecting  liis  duty  acording  to  this  order  shall  pay  two  days'  work  for  one."' 
We  have  here,  in  distinct  outline,  the  system  of  supporting  the 
highway's  which  is  still  the  prevailing  one  in  New  England,  and 
which  has  only  ver^'  recentlj'  given  place  in  Billerica  to  the  method 
of  appointing  a  town  agent,  under  whose  direction  the  appropriations 
for  highway's  are  expended. 
1  1  quote  from  Danforth's  copy  of  this  Order,  Book  of  Grants,  I,  170.  The  original 
partly  obliterated  may  be  found  in  Records,  Vol.  I,  p.  ". 
 - 109 - 
88  HISTORY    OF    KILLERICA. 
The  principal  roads  loading  from  town  to  town  were  for  man}' 
years  designated  "country"  roads,  and  were  at  first  the  onlj'  roads 
to  receive  public;  care  as  a  matter  of  course  and  without  special  vote 
of  the  town.  The  roadS  to  Woburn,  Chelmsford,  Andover,  and 
Concord,  appear  to  have  been  at  first  the  only  roads  thus  distin- 
guished. The  first  record  of  surveyors  is,  "1  mo.  lGCO-1,"  when 
James  Kidder  and  John  Baldwin  were  chosen.  The  road  to  Wobnrn 
is  mentioned,  "n  :  1) :  GO.  At  a  town  meeting  the  tonne  doe  choose 
to  joyne  witli  a  comittee  from  Oberne  to  lay  out  the  highway  from 
Oberne  to  o'  meeting-house,  Ralph  Hill,  jun',  &  John  Parker." 
The  report  of  this  committee  is  not  recorded,  but  ten  jears  later  we 
find  this  record  : — - 
'•The  country  road  to  Woburn  thro  Shawshin  farmes. 
"Shawshiunock,or  Billerica,  10.  10'".  1670. 
"Whereas  the  country  road  leading  from  Woburn  to  Billerica  was  laid 
out  by  a  comittee  legally  chosen  by  each  towne  formerlj%  but  thei-e  not 
being  a  record  of  the  same  to  be  found,  where  it  Avas  exactly  laid,  and 
there  arising  some  difference  in  apprehention  where  y^  way  was  laid  thro 
Shawshin  farmes  ;  At  y '  request  of  Mr.  Ri :  Daniel.  Gent''",  the  comittee 
of  each  towne  did  meet  together  at  Shawshin  farme;  and,  hearing  w'hat 
could  be  said  every  way,  and  taking  an  exact  viewe  of  the  most  comodius 
way  for  the  country  road  to  passe  in,  did  determine  that  the  Avay  from 
billerica  to  woburn  througli  Shawshin  farmes  should  henceforth  bee  and 
continue,  beginning  at  the  westerly  end  of  the  said  farmes,  and  so  continue 
streight  through  y«  dirty  swamp,  and  so  along  vpon  the  high  land,  taking  a 
black  oak  tree  marked  with  D  (which  stands  in  the  side  line  between  the 
churches  farm  and  Samuel  Chanmes  farme)  in  the  middle  of  the  highway  ; 
and  so  passing  over  the  small  swamp  or  runnitt  above  Shawshin  house 
where  it  is  the  firmest  ground,  there  being  a  great  white  oak  stump 
standing  by  the  side  of  that  valle  on  the  north  ;  from  thence  it  continues 
streight  along,  going  over  y^  ridge,  where  the  oldest  highway  went  neer 
Samuel  Chaume's  bouse  on  the  north  of  it,  and  so  through  his  old  field 
vntill  you  come  to  y*"  casey  neer  Shawshin  river,  tliere  being  at  this  time,  a 
ditch  plowed  almost  all  the  way  through  these  farmes,  on  the  northerly 
side  of  this  bigliway  ;  and  so  the  road  is  allowed  seven  pole  wide  southerly 
from  the  ditch  aforesaid,  there  being  sundry  trees  marked,  some  on  y^  west 
side,  some  in  or  about  y^  middle,  and  ye  ditch  on  the  north  of  y**  s^  way. 
And  on  y^  easterly  side  of  Shawshin  river,  y'^  road  lyeth  much  whereabouts 
it  is  now  trodden,  and  passeth  over  the  brooke  at  y«  east  end  of  y^  plaine  in 
ye  middle  way  that  hatli  been  trodden  over  that  brook.  Tliis  was  agreed 
upon  by  us,  tlie  whole  comittee  being  present. 
•'John  Skires.        John  Wyman.        James  Kidder. 
•'Ralph  Hill.       Jonathan  Danforth." 
-  Hon?:  of  Gravts.     I,  IfiO. 
 - 110 - 
ROADS    AND   BRIDGES.  89 
This  record  does  not  add  much  to  our  knowledge  of  the  Wobnrn 
Road,  except  the  fact  that  it  was  originally-  seven  rods  wide  ;  but  it 
gives  interesting  illustration  of  the  phraseolog}'  and  methods  of  the 
men  who  laid  it  out. 
The  Concord  Road  is  thus  described  : — ^ 
''iS;  12mo.,  1660.     Concord  country  road  to  o''  Towne. 
''The  highway  from  Billerica  to  Concord  laid  out  by  the  Coinittee 
appinted  for  y^  same  Bj-  both  Townes  was  laid  out  as  followeth: 
"It  beginneth  at  the  country  road  iu  long  street  and  runneth  in  a 
straight  line  [from?]  North  east  corner  of  y"^  
fence  of  John  Rogers,  Sen''., 
i.  
e.  of  his  house  lot,  being  laid  out  four  pole  wide  anent  y"^  North-west 
corner  of  Billerica  meeting  house,  being  bounded  onward  toward  Concord 
by  John  Rogers'  fence  as  now  it  do  stand  on  the  west  ;  by  Jacob  Browne's 
and  Daniell  Sheed's  fence  (as  now  it  stands)  on  ye  east;  and  so  going 
streight  on  forward  to  the  pounds,  through  Mi'.  Whiting's  lott,  then  it 
turnes  westward,  ruiiing  down  charnstaflt'  lane,  vntill  you  come  to  y*'  bound 
corner  stake  between  George  fFarley  and  Jn".  Sternes,  on  Mr.  Dudley's 
farm,  whose  dividing  line  between  them  is  tlie  center  of  the  higliway  vntill 
you  come  neer  y^  lower  stake  of  y<^  divitions  at  that  place,  anent  which 
stake  it  lyeth  wholly  on  the  east  side  of  it ;  so  running  to  y^  fence  of  lieut 
ffrench,  his  field,  (which  was  sometimes  the  lot  of  Joseph  Parker,)  which 
fence  bounds  y^  highway  on  the  south-east.  Then  running  over  y^  swamp 
at  the  Island  between  brooks,  or  over  two  brooks,  being  bounded  by 
marked  trees  in  the  Center  of  y®  highway,  vntill  you  come  to  the  paster 
fence  of  Ralph  Hill,  Sen"^.,  which  fence  bounds  it  on  the  west;  so  rufling 
on  ye  south  east  of  Ralph  Hill,  jun"^.,  his  barne,  vntill  you  come  to  y^  old 
road  which  leads  to  Concord,  trees  being  marked  for  y^  center  of  it ;  and 
from  this  place  it  keaps  (generally)  y^  old  beaten  road  to  Concord  swamp 
acording  to  center  trees  ;  and  it  is  agreed  that  it  shall  lye  four  poles  wide 
from  long  street,  vntill  you  come  to  Mr.  Dudley's  farme;  and  from  ye 
entrance  of  Mr.  Dudley's  farme,  until  you  come  to  Concord  great  swamp, 
it  shall  Ij-e  at  least  six  pole  wide ;  and  from  ye  great  swamp  to  Concord 
towne,  Center  trees  are  marked  aboute  ye  old  road  vntill  you  come  to  the 
south  corner  of  the  widow  foxes'  land;  then  leaving  the  old  dirty  road  on 
the  right  hand,  and  passing  through  an  opening  of  the  swauip.  acording 
vnto  trees  marked  in  ye  center  of  it,  we  continued  to  Cramfield  gate,  and 
from  thence  keeping  the  comon  road,  to  ye  meeting  house. 
"The  comittee  which  laid  out  this  highway  were  as  followeth  : 
"•  
for  Billirica  :  for  Concord: 
Sarg"t  joHX  Parker.  Robert  ffletcher. 
George  ffarley.  Joseph  Wheeler." 
JoxATH  :  Danforth. 
3  Book  of  Grants.    I,  161. 
 - 111 - 
90  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
The  record  of  the  Andover  Road  immediatelj'  follows  the  pre- 
ceding —: 
"26*;  12m.  1660.     Andever  hUihimy. 
•'Wee  whose  names  are  hereunto  subscribed,  being  a  comittee  choesen 
respectively  by  y"^  Townes  of  Andever  and  Billerica,  to  lay  out  tlie  country 
road  leading  from  the  one  Tovvne  to  the  other,  have  laid  out  y^  said  road 
in  maimer  as  followeth  : 
'•'•Wee  began  at  the  country  road  that  leads  from  Chelmsford  towards 
the  bay,  or  in  long  street,  neer  the  meeting  Viouse,  of  Billerica,  and  soe  ran 
Crosse  ye  house  lots  of  James  Parker  and  Kalph  Hill,  Sen'.,  (about  ye 
middle  of  them,)  laying  it  four  poles  wide  through  y«  said  feilds,  acording 
to  marked  trees  ;  from  thence  we  ran  by  the  North  line  of  John  Shildon's 
house  lott  Towards  foxes  hill,  and  on  the  east  side  of  the  said  hill,  in  y*  old 
drawne  way,  vntill  you  come  to  a  meadow,  called  Content  meadow,  being 
six  poles  wide  from  y^  former  house  lots  to  Content  meadow,  and  four 
poles  wide  at  y"  saide  meadow,  between  the  lots  of  Jonathan  Danforth  and 
Samuel  Kinsley,  and  from  the  meadow  to  Strongwater  brook  six  poles  wide  ; 
and  at  Strongwater  brook  it  lyeth  crosse  the  meadow,  about  the  middle  of 
y«  lot  belonging  to  John  Poulter,  and  from  thence  to  a  meadow  belonging 
to  George  Abbot,  Sen^,  of  Andover,  at  the  north  east  end  of  the  meadow 
and  runeing  to  y^  drawne  road,  which  leads  from  Andever  Towne  towards 
Shawshin  River  meadows;  and  so  to  enter  the  said  road,  at  a  hill  called 
east  hill,  and  so  down  the  plaine  to  y^  bridge  that  lyeth  over  Shawshin 
River,  neere  to  y"  house  of  William  Ballard,  still  continuing  six  pole  wide 
acording  to  trees  suftetiently  marked  from  y^  foresaid  content  meadow  to 
Shawshin  bridge.  And  from  that  bridge  toward  andever  Towne,  vntill  you 
come  to  y*^  
houses  of  John  Johnson  and  Thomas  Johnson,  wee  judge  meet 
that  y"  highway  shalbe  where  it  is  now  drawne  ;  and  it  shall  lye  in  the  wet 
swamps  and  rocky  places  ten  poles  wide  at  the  least,  and  in  y'^  hardway 
elsewhere  to.  be  eight  poles  wide  at  least,  and  between  the  houses  of  y* 
Johnsons  aforesaid  and  the  town  of  Andever,  it  shall  lye  as  now  the  fences 
are  already  set  up,  and  from  the  corner  of  y^  aforesaid  Thomas  Johnson's 
fence  next  toward  y^  Towne  of  andever,  the  way  shalbe  six  poles  at  the 
least,  vntill  you  come  to  the  shop  of  John  ftVye,  and  from  the  shop  of  y^ 
said  John  ffrye  to  Mr.  Bradstreet's  yard  corner,  right  against  the  way 
j^  leads  down  to  Andever  meeting  house,  it  shalbee  four  poles  wide  at  the 
least,  being  the  way  which  is  Now  drawne  ;  further  it  is  agreed  that  from 
the  Hill,  called  east  Hill  aforesaid,  down  to  the  Bridge  ou^  Sliawshin  River 
aforesaide,  neere  j"  house  of  William  Ballard  aforesaid,  the  highway  shall 
be  but  four  poles  wide. 
'•This  highway  was  laid  out  by  us.     26 :  
12'".  1660. 
'•''  Billirica  Comittee  :  Andever  ComiUee  : 
Sarg"t  John  Parker.  George  Abbot,  Sen'^. 
Sargn"^  James  Kidder.  Sarg"'  Jx^  Ossgood." 
Jonathan  Danforth. 
 - 112 - 
ROADS    AND   BRIDGES.  91 
Mr.  Danforth's  presence  was  not  as  a  member  of  these  com- 
mittees, but  professional,  as  "artiste"  or  survejor,  employed  by 
both  towns. 
Of  the  Chelmsford  Road  no  (jlescription  is  recorded. 
These  four  roads  ai-e  all  in  use  still,  substantially  as  at  first  laid. 
The  most  important  changes  are,  that  the  Woburn  Road  first  ran 
over  the  top  of  Bare  Hill,  instead  of  turning  around  its  northerly 
side  as  now  ;  that  the  Concord  old  road  ran  a  nearl}'  straight  course, 
still  easil3'  traced,  through  the  swamp  about  a  mile  west  of  Bedford 
Village,  turning  from  the  present  road  to  Bedford  near  Huckins 
Street  ;  and  the  Chelmsford  Road  crossed  the  river  at  the  Fordwa}^ 
and  not  as  now  at  the  Corner. 
Another  important  early  road  was  that  leading  to  Wamesit,  of 
which  we  have  this  record  : — * 
''  9m.  1659.     The  Great  Comon-feild. 
"•It  was  agreed  before  the  laying  out  of  the  alotments,  in  the  great 
comon  feild  which  lyeth  below  y'^  great  Bridge,  [i.  
e.  at  the  ford  way,]  on 
the  east  side  of  Concord  River,  That  there  shalbee  a  convenient  highway 
alowed  throughout  the  wholl  feild,  cross  all  the  lots,  for  foot,  horse  &  cart, 
either  Avhere  it  is  already  Trodden,  or  elsewhere,  as  shalbe  Judged  to  be 
most  convenient,  which  is  to  be  noe  open  highways,  but  may  bee  taken  in 
'  
with  in  there  lands  &  fences. 
"March,  1664.  The  Towne  appointed  a  Comitt:  to  lay  out  this  high- 
way, which  made  this  returne,  vnder  theire  hands,  following  : 
"It  begins  at  the  east  side  of  Samuel  Trull's  fence  as  now  it  stands, 
and  so  to  lye  two  pole  wide,  and  runs  from  thence  crosse  the  lott  of  Koger 
Toothaker,  the  east  side  of  y^  highway,  crosse  that  lot  is  bounded  by  a 
stub  which  stands  by  the  comer  of  Samuel  Trull's  fence,  on  y"  eastward 
of  it  about  4,000  [ !  So  the  record  ;  probably  it  should  be  four]  poles,  and 
so  runes  to  a  rock,  w'=i>  Eocke  stands  a  little  on  this  side  of  y*  brooke; 
from  thence  acording  to  marked  trees  all  along,  vntill  you  come  to  y^  going 
down  to  y^  mill  place ;  and  Thus  far  y"  trees  are  marked  only  on  y^  east 
side  of  the  way,  but  onward  the  middle  of  the  highway  is  marked,  vntill 
you  come  to  William  Hamlet's  swamp,  and  from  thence  the  way  is  to  lye 
as  the  road  is  now  trodden,  toward  bacon  brooke  ;  and  the  agreement  is 
that  ye  way  shall  be.  all  of  it,  two  pole  wide. 
"The  Coniittee  that  did  the  worke  was  William  Hamlet,  James  Kidder, 
Ralph  Hill,  Junr." 
This  road,  passing  the  houses  of  Toothaker  and  John  Rogers, 
(see  Rogers,  2,  in  Genealogical  Register^)  ran  near  the  present  site 
of  the  depot  in  North  Billerica.     The  road  recently  opened  from 
*  Book  of  Grants.    I,  164. 
 - 113 - 
92  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
the  Fordwa}-  to  North  Billorica  must  be  near  the  line  of  this  early 
highway. 
Another  road  to  the  great  plain  and  great  common  field,  which 
were  towards  and  beyond  North  Billerica,  followed  the  present  Long 
Pond  Road  to  the  foot  of  P''ox  Hill,  on  the  north,  and  then  ran 
directl}'  across  the  swamp  and  fields,  where  its  disused  route  is  still 
easily  traced.  The  road  which  run  east  from  the  "I'ollard"  place, 
to  and  beyond  Mr.  Nason's  place,  existed  very  earl^'  and  was  known 
as  the  road  to  Jeffs  Cove,  or  Trull's  Cove. 
From  the  Andover  Road,  sometimes  called  East  Street,  the  road 
running  south,  at  the  foot  of  Fox  Hill,  was  of  course  in  earl}'  use. 
For  convenience,  I  refer  to  this  as  the  "East  Road,"  and  the 
following  record  must  refer  to  it : — 
'•^1658.     The  hicjhimij  at  Loes-Plaine. 
"At  the  laying  out  of  the  alotinents  at  and  about  loes  plaine,  it  was 
agreed  : 
"1.  That  tliere  shall  be  a  convenient  highway  alowed  out  of  the  lots 
Just  below  the  Rockes  and  hills  by  the  side  of  loes  plaine,  and  so  through 
the  land  of  Samuel  Keinp,  for  a  cart  to  pass  vpon  any  ocation,  which  land 
(if  the  proprietors  please)  they  may  take  within  their  fence. 
"2.  "i'lier  is  also  laid  out  another  highway  four  poles  wide,  on  the 
North  side  of  Sanmel  Kemp's  lot,  so  ruiiing  ouei*  the  brooke  on  the  north 
of  Simon  Crosbee's  land  &  on  the  South  of  Jacob  Browne's  land. 
"3.  There  is  also  laid  out  a  highway  of  two  poles  wide  betweene  the 
East  side  of  Sam'i  Kemp's  line  and  the  heads  of  those  lots  y'  lye  on  y<^  east 
of  Samuell  Kemp's  lot,  which  is  for  the  use  of  those  proprietors." 
Samuel  Kemp's  lot  was  near  Miss  Sophia  Allen's,  and  this  record 
outlines  vaguely  the  East  Road  to  that  point  and  the  road  leading 
towards  the  Shawshin  from  it,  early  known  as  Marshall's  Lane,  John 
Marshall  living  near  the  turn.  We  ma}'  suspect  that  the  latter  road 
had  a  westerly  extension,  which  would  pas§  Peter  Bracket's,  and 
connect  directly  with  Tufts  Lane.  From  Kemp's,  southward,  the 
East  Road  appears  in  a  later  record. 
"19.  1"'  1611.  The  Townsmen  doe  order  Sarg"'  John  Parker, 
Tho  :  foster  and  John  Marshall  to  lay  out  y^  highwa}'  from  John 
Marshall's  house  to  y*"  country  road,  that  13'eth  through  the  churches 
farme,  and  make  returne  thereof  vnder  their  hands  to  y*"  
Towuesmen." 
The  road  "through  the  churches  farm"  indicates  the  highwa}' 
north  of  the  Woburn  Road,  as  the  latter  did  not  pass  through,  but^ 
south  of,  the  Church  Farm. 
 - 114 - 
ROADS    AND    BRIDGES.  93 
A  later  record,^  1670-1,  March  21,  states  that,  as  no  report  of 
this  committee  was  found,  and  Mr.  Parker  was  dead,  the  selectmen 
directed  Messrs.  Foster  and  Marshall  to  renew  the  work,  and  pro- 
ceeds to  
say  that  the}',  "finding  a  convenient  wa}'  by  y*  bounds  of 
Shawshin  farme,  from  Thomas  Richardson's  lot  to  a  new  bridge,  and 
over  which  is  a  ditch  leading  to  the  country  road,  did,  with  John 
French  and  Thomas  Richardson,  address  j'^selves  to  Richard  Daniel, 
gent.,  proprietor  of  Shawshin  farme,  for  his  consent,  who,  to  gratify 
his  said  neighbours,  did  freely  condescend,  that  they  should  have  a 
private  way  to  pass  .for  carts,  &c.,  in  y^  bounds  of  y*^  said  farme, 
from  y"  said  Thomas  Richardson's  lot  to  y*^  afores**  new  bridge,  and 
from  thence  five  pole  on  y''  outside  of  y*'  side  [said?]  ditch  that  lead 
to  y*  said  couutry  road  ;  and  y*'  s*^  comittee  &  y"  s*^  John  French  & 
Thomas  Richardson  did  thankful]}-  accept  of  y''  
same,"  and  appointed 
this  a  private  highway  from  Richardson's  house  to  the  country  road. 
Mr.  Daniel  represented  wealth  and  rank,  his  wife  at  least  belong- 
ing to  the  nobility  ;  and  there  was  no  other  citizen  to  whom  the  town 
officially  showed  such  deference,  or  from  whom  it  sought  as  favors 
what  it  would  have  taken  from  others  as  its  right.  Whether  the 
present  East  Road  follows  the  line  of  this  early  location  is  uncertain. 
Farther  north,  on  the  Andover  Road,  an  early  and  long  forgotten 
way  turned  not  far  from  the  Cemetery  and  ran  to  the  Shawshin  near 
the  Crosby  place,  reaching  the  river  at  a  point  called  the  "Willow 
Spang." "^  This  grant  refers  to  it:  "There  is  three  acres  of  land 
alowed  in  James  Kidder's  lot  where  it  may  be  most  conveniently 
taken,  for  a  way  from  the  country  road  at  fox  hill  to  y*  second  part 
of  the  second  divitions.  Also  allowance  is  made  to  Simon  Crosbe's 
lot,  for  y^  highway  to  pass  from  James  Kidder's  lot  toward  Shawshin 
River." 
A  highway  which  had  always  been  an  important  one  is  described 
in  the  next  record. 
'^1661.     Content  highway. 
'•It  was  agreed  before  the  laying  out  of  the  2^  divition  Partaineing  to 
y«  Towneship,  That  there  should  be  a  highway  from  the  south  side  of  fox 
hill,  ouer  little  content  brook,  and  so  ouer  ailwife  brook,  streight  away  to 
5  Boole  of  Grants,  p.  159. 
°  
Daiifortli  often  uses  llie  word  "spang"  to  designate  some  point  in  field  or  meadow; 
tlie  same  word  wliich  Webster  spells  "spong."  William  Tay  had  land  at  this  place;  and 
the  copyist  of  his  will,  in  the  Suffolk  Registry,  evidently  had  trouble  in  decipliering  the 
original,  for  his  transcript  reads,  "the  willow  spangs."  Some  future  editor  or  archaeologist 
may  find  here  occasion  for  a  learned  explanation  of  the  pangs  of  the  willow  ! 
 - 115 - 
94  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
Shawshin  Rluer  oij  the  north  of  globe  hill,  and  so  ouer  heeth  brook,  cross 
Christopher  AVeb's  meadow  lott  &  continueing  onward  ouer  Strongwater 
brooke,  at  the  narrow  neck  betvvene  William  Tay's  meadow,  and  so  onward 
to  andever  meadow." 
This,  the  Pattenville  Road,  was  in  JJaiiforth's  common  nsage  the 
'•road  to  Globe  Hill."     It  left  the »  Andover  Road  near  Mr.  Holt's 
house,  and  crossed  the  "little  content"  brook  higher  up  that  stream 
than  does  the  present  road  near  I)ea.  Samuel  King's  house. 
The  next  description  may  refer  to  the  road  from  Pattenville 
towards  Wilmington.  "Also  one  highway  vpon  content  plaine  from 
this  road,  beginning  upon  the  hill  eastward  of  two  little  round 
swamps,  and  so  ruiiing  anglewise  about  y"  middle  of  y'  part  of  y^ 
2**  divitions,  which  lyeth  on  the  east  of  ailwife  brook,"  etc. 
The  following  description  more  clearl}'  refers  to  the  road  from  the 
depot  to  Pattenville:  "1664.  It  was  ordered  at  the  laying  out  of 
3'*  comon  feild  on  the  plain  which  is  on  the  east  side  of  Content 
meadow,  that  ther  shalbee  a  highway  from  y^  country  road  leading 
to  anclever,  to  Shawshin  Riuer,  beginning  on  y^  east  of  content 
bridge,  &  so  passing  through  y^  lots  of  Nath.  Hill,  leiut  french, 
Jonath  Danfortli,  John  Rogers,  El**"^  Chamne,  Golden  More,  William 
I'attin,  Peter  Brackett,  James  Kidder,  &  Capt.  Brackett,  which 
enters  it  into  y^  road  which  comes  from  John  Balden  bridge,  leading 
to  globe  hill,  and  at  y*  most  easterly  corner  of  Simon  Crosbes  lot 
begins  that  highway  which  goeth  to  William  Pattin's  meadow  at 
Shawshin  River."  The  references  in  the  closing  paragraph •  
are  to 
the  two  roads  named  in  the  preceding  descriptions. 
A  highwa}-,  which  probably  never  had  much  use  and  was  soon 
forgotten,  was  laid  between  the  two  parts  of  the  Second  Division. 
It  was  "on  each  side  of  the  dividing  line  from  loes  plain  until  you 
come  to  ailwife  brook"  ;  or  from  a  point  near  Mrs.  Asa  Holden's, 
and  passing  towards  the  brook  by  the  corner  at  Mr.  James  Page's, 
on  the  Wilmington  Road,  where  "Marshall's  lane,"  extended  from 
the  Crosby  place,  comes  into  it. 
The  Lexington  Road,  early  and  long  known  as  the  road  to 
Bacon's  mill,  or  Fitch's  mill,  is  first  mentioned,  "16:  1  :  63.  Will' 
Tay  &  George  farley  are  Apoynted  to  Lay  out  a  highway  from 
the  Towne,  leading  to  Mr.  Michell's  farme,  and  to  y'  land  y'  was 
La^''  out  for  Mr.  Edward  Oaks'  farme,  on  y"  south  East  end  of 
Mr.  Winthrop's  great  meadow,  to  be  layd  out  four  polls  wide." 
Nineteen  vears  later  it  needed  relocation.     "23.  1"\  82.     At  a 
 - 116 - 
ROADS    AND    BRIDGES.  95 
meeting  of  3'^  selectmen  :  Whereas  Mr.  Muzej'  makes  a  complaint 
for  want  of  y*  knowledge  of  y^  highwa}'  from  his  farme,  that  hee 
bought  of  Timothy  Brookes,  to  the  towne  ;  The  selectmen  do  order 
George  ffarley,  that  was  one  of  the  comittee  that  lajd  it  out  at  y^ 
first,  *  &  corp^  Jn°  ffrench,  forthwith  to  go  and  renue  y"  markes 
of  y*  said  way,  that  it  may  be  obvious  to  all  travellers  ;  also  to  draw 
vp  a  record  as  distinct  as  ma}'  bee  how  it  lyes,  that  so  it.  ma^'  be 
found  afterward  without  much  difficulty." 
The  road  farther  east  is  not  described  in  the  Records.  But  it 
was  in  existence,  and  -known  as  a  country  road  as  early  as  1670, 
when  Joseph  Walker's  grant  was  bounded  east  by  it.  The  survey 
of  Mr.  Daniel's  farms  shows  that  this  road  formed  in  large  part  the 
west  line  of  the  Champue}'  Farm. 
That  there  was  a  road  farther  south  from  the  Concord  Road 
towards  Cambridge  is  certain,  but  no  description  of  it  is  recorded. 
It  must  have  been  substantially  the  same  as  that  which  now  runs 
southeast  over  the  hill,  a  mile  north  of  Bedford  Village. 
The  following  record  gives  a  good  example  of  the  private  high- 
ways often  laid  out  for  the  convenience  of  adjacent  farmers  :^  "  1658. 
It  was  agreed,  That  there  should  be  reserved  three  pole  wide  (vpon 
the  Towneship)  by  the  river  side,  from  the  angle  of  the  township 
neare  George  ffarley's,  vntill  you  come  below  abbott's  Bridge,  which 
is  to  be  no  open  highway,  but  for  any  vse  for  cart,  or  for  landing 
of  goods,  hay,  corne,  etc.,  which  liighway  is  to  be  taken  into  euery 
man's  dividuall  (i.  
e.  his  propriety  or  alottment)  if  hee  please.  And 
an}'  man  taking  downe  any  bares  or  opening  any  gates,  to  passe  by 
the  Riuer's  side  vpon  any  such  ocation,  shall  safely  put  them  vp 
againe  ;  and  in  case  of  neglect,  as  aforesaid,  shalbc  lyalile  to  pay 
whatever  damage  any  person  shall  sustain  by  his  neglect  therein." 
The  town  also  reserved  the  same  liberty  to  pass  from  Charnstaffe 
Lane  to  this  river  highway.  "Also,  it  was  agreed,  That  the  Brook 
which  lyeth  in"  the  middle  of  the  township  should  ly  open  (for  y*  use 
of  y^  inhabitance  in  generall)  from  long-street  downward  to  y*  line 
of  Mr.  Dudley's  farme,  and  six  pole  wide  on  each  side  of  the  brook, 
to  ly  in  coinon  for  publick  vse."  This  "brook-highway"  bounded 
Mr.  Whiting's  grant  on  the  east,  and  has  other  mention  ;  and  this 
description  proves  the  identity  of  Charnstaffe  Lane  and  the  line 
of  the  Dudley  Fai'm. 
'  Grants,  I,  168. 
 - 117 - 
96  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
West  Street  is  mentioned  at  the  same  time.**  "1658.  At  tlie 
laying  ont  of  the  lots  vpon  the  Towneship,  It  was  agi-eed  that  y^ 
highway  cal'^  the  west  street  should  rune  from  long  street,  beginning 
at  the  southeast  of  Jonathan  Danforth's  house  lot,  and  lye  six  pole 
wide  southward  of  his  line,  the  whole  width  of  his  house  lot,  and 
then  it  should  be  laid  twelve  pole  wide,  from  thence  to  y"  riuer,  y« 
former  ^ix  pole  continuing,  and  so  to  take  six  pole  northward  of  a 
rock  in  a  valle}'  b}^  a  willow  tree,  (which  rock  is  y"  southwest  corner 
of  Jonathan  Danforth,  his  house  lot,)  and  onward  it  is  to  be  laid  on 
each  side  y*  swamp  and  brook,  that  so  y'^  water  may  lye  open  for 
cattell." 
In  November,  1660,  the  town  voted  that  Danforth  and  Kidder 
might  have  the  land  included  in  West  Street,  either  for  a  certain 
sum,  or  "if  tlie}'  could  purchase  a  convenient  highway  elsewhere  to 
the  Riuer,  to  the  Town's  content."  But  this  grant  was  for  some 
reason  not  consummated  ;  for  in  1665  Mr.  Kidder  received  a  grant 
of  two  and  one-half  acres,  on  the  south  side  of  this  road,  and 
extending  to  the  river  ;  this  grant  being  instead  of  ten  acres 
elsewhere.  And,  ten  years  later,  the  road  is  again  granted  to 
Danforth  and  Kidder,  with  the  reservation  of  a  right  to  a  private 
highway',  as  described  above.  The  consideration  of  this  grant  was, 
disbursements  made  for  the  town,  Mr.  Danforth  having  expended  a 
thousand  and  a  half  of  shingles  to  purchase  Cambridge  lands  for  the 
town.  AVhen  West  Street  was  reclaimed  as  a  public  highway  is  not 
certain;  but  the  process  was  gradual.  It  was  a  "  bridle-wa}' "  in 
1730,  when  proposals  for  building  the  Centre  bridge  came  before  the 
town,  and  the  selectmen  were  instructed,  in  preparation  for  that 
measure,  "to  state  &  settle  the  bounds  of  the  highway." 
A  road  was  laid  out,  in  1661,  to  run  from  the  Concord  Road, 
near  the  present  route  of  the  Middlesex  turnpike,  going  by  Henr^^ 
Jefts  and  Lieutenant  French's  to  William  Taj-'s,  and  ending  in  the 
"road  to  the  ba}',"  on  the  "top  of  the  hill  Next  to  Thomas  Foster's 
fence."  After  the  appointment  of  one  or  two  committees,  this  road 
was  abandoned  ;  but  the  location  of  its  terminus  proves  a  point 
of  interest  in  the  early  geography,  namely,  that  the  Woburn  Road 
at  first  went  over  and  not  around  Bare  Hill.  When  the  change 
was  made  is  not  recorded,  but  it  may  be  indicated  in  this  action  : 
"May  16,  1711.  *  Deacon  James  Frost  and  Lt.  Samuel  Hill 
were  appointed  to  vew  a  highway'  pi'oposed  to  be  exchanged  with 
8  Grants,  II,  167. 
 - 118 - 
ROADS    AND    BRIDGES.  97 
Crosby,  upon  bare  Hill,  and  to  make  a  Return  of  their  Judgment  • 
concerning  it."  Their  report  is  wanting,  but  we  ma}'  conjecture 
that  it  favored  the  easier  route,  around  the  northerly  slope  of  the 
hill,  where  the  road  has  long  been.  The  road  north  of  Fox  Hill, 
leading  east  from  Long  Street  at  Abot's  bridge  to  the  Davis  place, 
was  in  early  use,  and  doubtless  continued  as  far  as  the  Andover 
Road  ;    
but  no  description  is  found  in  the  Records.       * 
West  of  Concoi:d  River,  the  larger  part  of  the  land  remained 
"common,"  until  the  great  distribution  soon  after  1700,  and  tire 
roads  before  that  date  .wei'o  few  and  onl}'  incidentally  appear  in  the 
Records.  The  earliest  was,  no  doubt,  the  "treble-cove"  road," 
beginning  at  the  Fordwaj^  and  running  southwest  on  the  line, 
substantially,  of  the  present  highwa}'  east  of  Gilson's  Hill  and 
northwest  of  Winning's  Pond,  and  so  towards  Concord.  It  derived 
its  name  from  the  "treble-cove,"  a  locality  often  named  in  the 
Records,  and  situated  near  the  Carlisle  line.  This  road  is  often 
called  the  "road  to  John  Hill's,"  who  doubtless  lived  near  it. 
The  "rangeway"  road,  as  its  name  indicates,  followed  the 
dividing  line  between  the  first  and  second  ranges  of  lots  in  the  great 
land  division  of  1708.  The  first  range,  bounding  on  Chelmsford 
line,  was  about  half  a  mile  in  width,  and  the  road  still  follows  the 
line  thus  indicated. 
A  bridge  over  Concord  River  was  an  early  necessit}-  .  The  first 
bridge  was  at  the  Ford  way,  a  half-mile  above  North  Billerica.  The 
date  of  its  erection  is  not  certain,  but  is  probably  indicated  by  the 
action  of  the  General  Court,  1G57,  May  15,  when  the  importance  to 
the  country'  of  bridges  at  Billerica  and  Mistick  was  affirmed,  and 
assessment  of  expense,  for  building  and  maintaining  them,  upon 
adjoining  towns  and  plantations  was  provided  for.  The  bridge  was 
'in  use  in  1659,  as  William  Haile's  grant,  which  was  near  by  and 
made  in  that  j-ear,  mentions  "y"  great  bridge."  The  "great  comon 
field,"  which  was  divided  in  1659  among  the  proprietors,  is  also 
described  as  lying  on  the  east  side  of  Concord  River,  below  the 
great  bridge. 
This  early  bridge  was,  of  course,  rude  and, primitive  and  soon 
needed  repairs.  "25:  7:  60.  Ralph  Hill  jun'  and  James  Kider 
are  apoynted  to  join  with  Chelmsford  in  the  repayring  of  y^  bridge 
Leading  to  Chelmsford  ;  and  they  are  to  doe  what  work  they,  with 
the  comitee  of  Chelmsford,  shall  judge  meet  to  be  done,  and  to 
Leuie  the  charges  acording  to  the  General  Cort's  order  ;    and  they 
 - 119 - 
98  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
have  power  given  them  to  call  in  for  helpe  aeordlnge  as  they  shall  se 
meet,  from  time  to  time,  till  the  work  be  done,  provided  they  be 
such  persons  as  ai'e  behinde  in  high  wa}'  work,  to  the  Number  of  6 
days  of  them  that  hath  done  y"  moste."  "1662,  4,  9,"  it  was 
agreed  that  Thomas  Foster  should  "goe  to  the  great  bridge"  and 
"br  Hill  Seur,  if  James  Kider  could  not  go."  John  Parker  was 
also  requested  "to  goe  to  the  work,  if  his  ocations  would  give  wa}-," 
and  a  note  was  sent  to  Chelmsford  "for  their  comittee  to  meet  at 
the  work." 
In  1664,  complaint  was  made  to  the  Court  at  Charlestown  of 
"great  defect  in  Chelmsford  Bridge,"  and  the  selectmen  of  the  two 
towr.s  were  enjoined  to  take  order  for  the  repair  thereof  forthwith;'' 
and,  November  29,  the  "Townsmen  did  choose  Will'  Hamlett  to 
join  Avith  a  man  from  Chelmsford  to  repajr  the  great  Bridge." 
In  making  these  repairs,  in  1662,  Billerica  furnished  five  hands 
and  Chelmsford  four,  "a  day  in  the  water,"  charging  2s.  6d.  per  day. 
Besides,  there  is  a  charge  for  two  quarts  of  liquor,  4s.,  showing  that 
one  day's  work  would  pay  for  a  quart  of  liquor  and  a  quarter. 
In  1665,  the  whole  charge  for  previous  repairs  was  "  7p.  1C^  6".,"  of 
which  Billerica  paid  "4p.  l^  6p."  and  Chelmsford  "  3p.  9^"  Groton 
does  not  seem  to  have  been  called  upon  at  this  time,  but  for  the 
charge  in  1665,  Groton  paid  its  proportion.  "21p.  2'**.  2^."  were 
raised  on  the  county  rate,  Chelmsford  paying  "10^.  3^,"  Billerica, 
"7P.  8'.  4P.,"  and  Groton,  "3^.  14".  7p."  It  was  to  be  expected, 
that  a  partnership  like  this  would  not  long  work  smoothh'  ;  and  the 
following  record  will  surprise  no  one. 
"  12  1"  16||.  Whereas,  the  selectmen  of  Chelmsford  (bj-  writing 
vnder  ther  hands)  have  declared  (to  the  selectmen  of  Billerica)  their 
absolute  refusall  any  longer  to  assist  in  maintenance  of  the  great 
Bridge  vpon  Billerica  riuer,  as  also  giving  Notice  to  them  to  repair 
the  same  acording  to  law.  Hence  the  selectmen  of  Billerica  (for 
y*  preventing  of  dangers  and  hazards  b}'  travellers)  do  order  that 
some  of  the  plaukes  of  that  bridge  be  taken  away,  that  so  there 
may  be  no  passing  over  it ;  and  some  provision  made  on  each  side 
the  breach  to  give  warning  of  the  danger  to  any  traveller."  Whether 
any  compromise  of  the  difficulty  was  made,  or  the  l)ridge  continued 
impassable  for  two  years,  the  Records  do  not  tell  us  ;  but  a  higher 
power  interposed  ;    and,  1667,  October  9,  the  General  Court  takes 
"  Records.    Vol.  I  (Reverse)  p.  87. 
 - 120 - 
ROADS    AND    BRIDGES.  99 
action  as  follows:  "In  answer  to  a  motion  made  by  the  deputyes 
of  Billerica  &  Chelmsford,  in  reference  to  the  bridge  over  Billerica 
River,  it  is  ordered  by  this  Court  *  that  the  sajd  bridge  shall  be 
repa3'red  &  vpholden  b}'  the  tonnes  of  Billerica,  Chelmsford,  & 
Groaten,  and  all  such  farmes  as  are  there  granted,"  and  these  towns 
were  to  be  free  from  the  maintenance  of  all  other  bridges,  "except 
in  their  own  bounds."^" 
In  execution  of  this  order  the  County  Court  at  Charlestown, 
1667,  December  17,  "did  nominate  and  empower  Mr.  John  Webb, 
alias  Evered,  Mr.  Thomas  Hinksman,  Mr.  James  Parker  &  Jonathan 
Danforth,  to  agi'ee  with  some  able  and  honest  artificer  for  erecting  a 
bridge  over  Billerica  River,  as  speedily  as  might  be." 
This  committee  emploj'ed  Job  Lane  to  build  the  bridge,  and 
the  contract  made  with  him  is  preserved."  It  was  made,  1667, 
.January  11,  and  the  work  was  to  be  completed  before  the  29th  of 
September  following.  The  size  of  timbers  and  form  of  structure 
are  minutelj'^  specified.  The  arches  wei-e  to  be  sixteen  feet  wide, 
and  the  flooring  of  oak  plank  four  inches  thick.  He  was  to  receive 
in  paj'ment,  "seven  score  and  five  pounds  starling":  ten  in  cash, 
ten  in  wheat,  ten  in  malt,  and  the  remainder  in  corn  and  cattle,  not 
exceeding  one-half  in  cattle,  which  must  be  under  seven  years  old. 
If  the  parties  could  not  agree,  they  were  to  be  appraised  by  two 
men  properly  chosen,  and  the  corne  was  to  be  good  and  merchantable 
at  such  rates  as  the  country  rate  set.  One  half  was  to  be  paid  at 
or  before  the  first  of  May,  and  the  balance  within  the  next  year. 
Payments  were  to  be  delivered  at  Capt.  Adams's  mill  in  Chelmsford, 
or  in  Billerica  town.  If  Mr.  Lane  chose,  Chelmsford  or  Groton 
payments  might  be  delivered  near  the  bridge  until  it  was  finished, 
and  after  that  in  Billerica. 
Mr.  Lane  was  distinguished  as  an  "artificer."  He  paid  for  his 
large  farm  by  the  erection  of  a  mansion  for  Fitz  John  Winthrop,  at 
Norwich,  Connecticut,  and  he  built  one  of  the  College  buildings  at 
Cambridge. 
In  1676,  there  was  again  complaint  of  the  bridge,  and  united 
action  of  the  towns  in  repairing  it.     After  that,  the  bridge  is  hardly 
w  Colonial  Records.    Vol.  IV,  Part  ii,  p.  356. 
"  Among  the  valuable  mss.  Lane  Papers,  now  in  the  pos.session  of  Mrs.  A.  B.  Cutler, 
of  Bedford,  a  descendant.  Mr.  William  H.  Whitmore,  of  Boston,  has  given  an  account  and 
abstract  of  these  Lane  Papers  in  The  New  England  Historical  and  Genealogical  Register. 
Vol.  XI,  pp.  102  and  231. 
 - 121 - 
100  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
mentioned  until  twent}'  3'ears  later,  when  it  was  carried  away  by  a 
flood,  a  disaster  which  ended  the  existence  of  the  Fordway  bridge, 
after  an  existence  of  forty  years.  This,  no  doubt,  happened  shortly 
before  the  date  of  the  following  action.  Clerk  Joseph  Tompson, 
without  date,  says:  "'Receiued  an  order  from  Chelmsford,  dated 
about  the  first  of  December,  1698,  desiring  of  our  selectmen,  or 
Town,  to  send  a  person  or  persons  empowered  to  join  with  them 
and  Groton  and  Dunstable  about  the  new  building  of  a  bridge  over 
Concord  riuer."  The  selectmen  appointed  Captain  Danforth  and 
Mr.  Tompson  to  attend  this  meeting,  on  December  6,  but,  "Capt. 
Danforth,  being  presented  with  the  selectmen's  order,  wholl}'  refused. 
Joseph  Tompson  went  alone."  He  met  there  Major  Jonathan  TA'ng, 
for  Dunstable  ;  [Thomas  ?]  Williams  and  James  Blanchard,  for 
Groton;  and  Major  Thomas  Hinchman,  Solomon  Keyes,  Sen., 
and  Cornet  Nath  :  Hill.  The  result  of  the  deliberations  of  this 
committee  must  have  been,  although  our  Records  leave  us  to  infer 
the  fact,  that  the  new  bridge  should  be  built  farther  up  the  river, 
at  the  "corner,"  where  it  has  since  stood.  Groton,  for  some 
unexplained  reason,  refused  to  participate,  and  resort  was  again 
found  necessary-  to  the  General  Court,  to  bring  this  intractable  town 
to  terius.  An  act  was  passed,  1699,  March  20,  authorizing  the 
Court  of  Sessions  to  assess  and  collect  of  Groton,  "24^.  10"''.,"  and 
to  pay  it  to  "Major  Hinksman,  Major  Ting,  &  Mr.  John  Lane, 
undertakers  for  the  building  of  the  bridge  latelj-  erected  in  Bilrica." 
There  were  good  reasons  why  Billerica  desired  to  change  the  location. 
With  but  one  bridge  over  the  Concord,  it  was  important  that  it 
should  be  neai'er  the  centre  of  the  town,  and  not  make  so  long  a 
circuit  necessary'  to  reach  the  west  part  of  it.  In  fact,  it  was  for 
Billerica  a  question  of  removal,  or  the  maintenance  of  two  bridges  ; 
while  to  the  towns  above  the  difference  was  trifling.  This  view 
prevailed,  and  the  most  important  bridge  in  town  found  a  location 
which  has  been  so  far  permanent.  How  long  the  other  towns 
were  called  upon  to  aid  in  its  maintenance,  I  can  not  saj',  nor 
how  many  times  it  has  been  rebuilt.  In  1737,  the  bridge  fell  down 
and  was  rebuilt  after  some  discussion  as  to  the  location.  In  1873, 
the  old  wooden  bridge  gave  place  to  a  handsome  and  light  iron 
structure. 
The  ghost  of  the  Fordway  bridge  did  not,  however,  rest  with 
perfect  quiet.  >Jinety  years  later,  in  1789,  a  subscription  was  made 
and  committee  appointed  to  1)uikl  a  bridge  at  the  old  place.     The 
 - 122 - 
ROADS    AND    BRIDGES.  101 
record  of  that  committee  is  preserved.'^  The  first  meeting  was 
appointed  by  people  in  Chehnsford'Neck,  now  Lowell  and  vicinit}-, 
and  held,  1789,  January-  23,  at  the  house  of  Isaac  Sprake.  Others 
were  held  at  Jonathan  Manning's  and  Esquire  Barron's,  and  Aaron 
Chamberlin  was  moderator  and  William  Manning  clerk.  A  com- 
mittee was  sent  to  Concord  and  Sudbury,  who  reported  that  ''there 
was  not  much  danger  of  opposition  from  those  towns  on  account 
of  flowing  their  meadows."  It  was  found  that  the  subscriptions 
amounted  to  £59,  10s.,  and  the  subscribers  "voted  to  Go  on  and 
Build"  ;  and  a  committee  of  niue  was  appointed  to  collect  the 
subscriptions  and  cari-y  on  the  work.  March  3d  appeared  the 
selectmen  of  Billerica  and  sundrj-  others,  ''and  forbid  our  going  on 
to  build  on  perill  of  paying  all  Dammage  that  should  arise  therefrom 
to  said  Town."  In  April,  a  committee  was  sent  to  Woburn, 
doubtless  to  see  if  aid  could  be  had  there.  The}^  brought  back 
unfavorable  report,  and,  May  19,  the  meeting  adjourned  without 
day. 
The  Centre  bridge  was  built  in  1737.  The  vote  for  its  erection 
was  passed,  1736,  November  16,  and  in  1738  the  building  committee 
received  £95  from  the  treasurer,  which  was  perhaps  its  entire  cost. 
It  was  built  "against  the  bridle  way,  betwixt  Mr.  Enoch  Kidder  and 
Oliver  Whiting,  Jun".  lotts." 
Hill's  bridge  first  appears  in  the  following  record,  1736,  July  22  : 
"Whereas,  a  number  of  Persons  in  the  neighboring  Towns  have 
Petitioned  the  General  Sessions  in  Middx.  for  a  highway  from 
Westford  meeting-house  cross  Concord  River  over  Lt.  Joseph  Hill's 
bridge  to  Lexington,"  a  committee  of  five  was  chosen  "to  manage 
that  aff'aire  in  the  behalfe  of  the  Town."  Lieutenant  Hill  probably 
lived  on  the  west  side  of  Concord  River  near  this  bridge,  which  he 
may  have  built  for  his  own  convenience  and  that  of  the  neighborhood. 
It  would  seem  that  the  Court  approved  the  petition,  for,  1737, 
May  16,  the  town  instructed  the  committee  "to  manage  the  affaire 
in  Defense  of  the  Town";  to  proceed  either  by  appeal  from  the 
Sessions,  or  by  laying  the  matter  before  the  General  Court,  or  both. 
The  town  was  soon  called  upon  to  pay  £59,  10s.,  which  implies  that 
the  case  was  decided  in  favor  of  the  petitioners. 
The  Hill  bridge  contributes  no  other  noticeable  facts  to  the 
history,  except  an  episode,  which  greatly  stirred  the  town  at  the 
12  Loaned  to  me  by  Jliss  Lucinda  Manning,  of  Chelmsford.    See  Manning,  11. 
 - 123 - 
102  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
time  and  lingers  in  the  memory  of  the  older  inhabitants  still.  After 
the  opening  of  the  Middlesex  turnpike,  the  Hill  bridge  and  road 
crossing  it  fell  into  disuse  and  decay  ;  and  at  last  the  bridge, 
falling,  was  for  some  time  not  rebuilt.  But  a  demand  arose  for 
the  rebuilding  of  the  bridge  and  a  straightening  of  the  road  leading 
to  it,  wliich  had  been  somewhat  devious.  A  route  more  direct  and 
less  hilly  than  the  turnpike  was  sought,  in  this  improvement,  from 
Chelmsford  and  towns  above  to  Lexington.  Mrs.  Joseph  Foster 
gave  the  right  of  way  through  her  land  for  some  distance  on  the 
west  side  of  the  river,  and  others  set  about  the  work  and  built  one 
of  the  abutments.  But  the  majority  of  the  people  did  not  relish  the 
proposed  diversion  of  travel  and  business  to  a  line  so  far  from  the 
centre  of  the  town.  When  other  means  of  opposition  failed,  some 
of  the  citizens,  and,  tradition  affirms,  some  of  the  most  respectable, 
determined  to  take  the  case  into  their  own  hands  and  proceeded  to 
destro}'  the  offensive  abutment.  The  mob,  for  such  it  seems  to  have 
been,  and  perhaps  the  only  mob  known  in  the  town,  did  its  work 
thoroughly.  Suits  followed  and  were  decided  against  the  town, 
which  was  compelled  to  build  the  bridge  and  road  and  has  since 
maintained  it. 
 - 124 - 
CHAPTER   VII. 
THE    INDIANS    AND    WAMESIT. 
The  Shawshin  territory  was  a  favorite  resort  of  the  red  men. 
Ttie  Pawtucket  tribe  occupied  tlie  vicinity-  of  the  moutla  of  the 
Concord  River,  on  both  sides  of  it,  as  their  headquarters.  From 
this  place  they  went  fortli  ;  to  this  they  returned  ;  here  they  planted 
their  corn.  Wamesit,  or  We3'mesit,  was  originalh'  the  name  of  the 
eastern  angle,  between  the  Concord  and  Merrimack  Rivers,  around 
Fort  Hill  and  the  modern  ''Belvidere"  of  Lowell.  Here  many,  if 
not  the  majorit}',  of  the  Indians  lived,  giving  ancient  Billerica  a 
large  Indian  population,  though  the  town  never  probably  exercised 
civil  jurisdiction  over  them.  This  Indian  settlement  confronted  the 
fathers  of  Billerica  as  they  looked  northward.  Their  road  down  the 
Concord  River  was  the  road  to  Wamesit. 
This  Indian  reservation,  specifically  granted  by  the  General  Court, 
was  surveyed  and  described  by  Danforth  in  1664,  April,  as  follows  :^ 
u  *  *  'X'liere  is  laid  out  unto  the  Indians,  who  are  the  inhabitants  of 
Waymesick,  flue  hundred  acres  of  land  on  the  east  side  of  Concord  Riuer 
and  joyning  to  the  sajd  riuer  &  to  Merremack  Eiuer;  it  runnes  upon 
Concord  Riuer  about  one  mile  &  three  quarters,  which  reacheth  to  Bacon 
Brooke,  &  bounded  by  the  sajd  brooke  on  the  south  fower  score  poole;  it 
runnes  from  the  mouth  of  Concord  Ryuer  doune  Merremaeke  Riuer  two 
hundred  &  fifty  poole,  where  it  is  bounded  by  a  red  oake  marked;  from 
thence  it  runnes  according  to  the  bound  mai-ke  trees  w"^  two  angles,  unto 
Bacon  Brooke;  all  which  doe  more  plainly  appeare  by  plott  of  it  under 
written.  This  flue  hundred  acres  is  part  of  that  three  thousand  w^''  was 
layd  out  to  M'^.  Winthrop  formerly,  only  in  the  returne  of  sajd  three 
thousand  there  is  mention  made  of  one  hundred  acres  allowed  in  that 
faruie,  in  refference  to  land  the  Indians  had  improoved  w"Hn  the  bounds  of 
it.  This  worke  was  done  by  the  Coraittee  appointed  to  y^  same  by  this 
Generall  Court.  Symox  Willard. 
John  Parker. 
Jonathan  Danforth,  Surveyor.''' 
1  Colonial  Records.    Vol.  IV,  Part  ii,  p.  108. 
 - 125 - 
104  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
Ill  place  of  this  four  hundred  acres  taken  out  of  Mrs.  Winthrop's 
farm,  her  heirs  were  granted  six  hun(h'ed  acres  elsewhere.  The 
moutli  of  Bacon  Brook,  which  hounded  this  Indian  plantation  south- 
erly, is a  few  rods  south  of  the  Salem  Railroad  hridge.  The  present 
boundary  of  Lowell  on  the  east  of  Concord  River  falls  a  little  below 
the  lines  of  the  Indian  survey.  There  is  no  evidence  that  these 
Pawtucket  Indians  were  ever  troublesome  or  unfriendly  neighbors. 
In  common  with  other  tribes,  their  numbers  had  been  greatly  reduced 
by  a  desolating  pestilence  not  long  before  the  period  of  the  English 
colonization  ;  and  the  wise  and  Christian  missionary  labors  of  P^liot 
and  Gookin  among  them  did  not  fail  to  bear  important  fruit.  Had 
the  Indian  policy  of  the  country  been  moulded  in  later  years  by 
the  same  spirit  of  benevolence  and  justice,  the  nation  would  have 
been  saved  much  disaster,  expense,  and  reproach. 
John  Eliot,  pastor  of  Roxbury,  1632-00,  began  to  devote  himself 
to  labors  among  the  Indians  about  the  time  that  the  Shawshin 
settlement  became  a  practical  question.  Beginning  at  Nonantum, 
now  Natick,  the  success  of  his  efforts  encouraged  their  extension, 
and  he  soon  sought  out  these  Wamesit  Indians.  Passaconaway,  the 
aged  sachem,  became  friendly,  if  not  Christian,  and,  in  1G60,  in  a 
farewell  speech  to  his  children  and  people,  he  "warned  them  to  take 
heed  how  they  quarrelled  with  their  English  neighbors,  for  though 
they  might  do  them  some  damage,  yet  it  would  prove  the  means  of 
their  own  destruction."  His  death  did  not  follow  immediately,  for, 
in  1662,  he  asked  and  received  from  the  General  Court  a  grant  of 
land  "about  Naticot,  above  Mr.  Brenton's  lands,  where  it  is  free, 
a  mile  &  a  halfe  on  either  side  Merremacke  River  in  breadth  &  three 
miles  on  either  side  in  length."  "Mr.  Brenton's  lands,"  here  men- 
tioned, were  the  early  grant  of  eight  thousand  acres  to  Billerica, 
which  the  town  had  sold  to  that  gentleman,  and  this  grant  to  the 
sachem  was  beyond  the  Souhegan,  near  Manchester. 
In  1670,  Wanualancet  had  succeeded  his  father  as  sachem, 
inheriting  his  peaceful  spirit  also.  He  yielded  to  Eliot's  faithful 
persuasions  and  avowed  himself  a  Christian,  1674,  May  5.  The 
account  given  by  Captain  Daniel  Gookin,  of  Wamesit  and  its 
population  and  the  conversion  of  this  chief,  is  interesting^  and 
important  as  a  contemporary  narrative,  and  I  give  it  entire.  It  was 
written  in  1674,  and  the  writer  is  himself  the  "English  magistrate" 
mentioned.^ 
-  Massachnsetts  Historical  Collections.    First  Series.    Vol.  I,  p.  186. 
 - 126 - 
THE    INDIANS    AND    WAMESIT.  105 
"Wamesit  is  the  fifth  praying  town;  and  this  place  is  situate  upon 
Merrimak  river,  being  a  neoli  of  hind  where  Concord  river  falletli  into 
Merriniak  river.  It  is  about  twenty  miles  from  Boston,  north  north  west, 
and  witliin  five  miles  of  Billerica,  and  as  much  from  Chelmsfoixl,  so  that  it 
hath  Concord  river  upon  tlie  AVest  Xortliwest,  and  Merrimak  river  upon  the 
north  north  east.  It  liath  about  fifteen  families,  and  consequently,  as  we 
compute,  about  seventy-five  souls.  The  quantity  of  land  belonging  to  it  is 
about  twenty-five  hundred  acres.  The  land  is  fertile  and  yieldeth  plenty  of 
corn.  It  is  excellently  accommodated  with  a  fishing  place,  and  there  is 
taken  variety  of  fish  in  their  seasons,  as  salmon,  shads,  lamprey  eels, 
sturgeon,  bass,  and  divers  others.  There  is  a  great  confluence  of  Indians 
that  usually  resort  to  this  place  in  the  fishing  seasons.  Of  these  strange 
Indians,  divers  are  vitioiis  and  wicked  men  and  women,  which  Satan  makes 
use  of  to  obstruct  the  pi'osperity  of  religion  here.  The  ruler  of  this  people 
is  called  Numphow.  He  is  one  of  the  blood  of  their  chief  sachems.  Their 
teacher  is  called  Samuel,  son  to  the  ruler,  a  young  man  of  good  parts,  and 
can  speak,  read  and  write  English  and  Indian  competently.  He  is  one  of 
those  that  was  bred  up  at  school,  at  th(»  charge  of  the  Corporation,  for  the 
Indians.  These  Indians,  if  they  wei-e  diligent  and  industrious.  —  to  which 
they  have  been  frequently  excited,  —  might  get  much  by  their  fish,  espe- 
ciall}'^  fresh  salmon,  which  are  of  esteem  and  good  price  at  Boston  in  the 
season;  and  the  Indians  being  stored  witli  horses  of  a  low  price,  miglit 
furnish  the  market  fully,  being  at  so  small  a  distance.  And  divers  other 
sort  of  fish  they  might  salt  or  pickle,  as  sturgeon  and  bass,  which  would 
be  much  to  their  profit.  But  notwithstanding  divers  arguments  used  to 
persuade  them  and  some  orders  made  to  encourage  them,  yet  their  idleness 
and  improvidence  doth  hitherto  prevail. 
■'At  this  place  once  a  j^ear,  at  the  beginning  of  May,  the  English 
magistrate  keeps  his  court,  accompanied  with  Mr.  Eliot,  the  minister;  who 
at  this  time  takes  his  opportunity  to  preach,  not  only  to  the  inhabitants, 
but  to  as  many  of  the  strange  Indians  that  can  be  persuaded  to  hear  him  ; 
of  which  sort,  usually,  in  time  of  peace,  there  are  considerable  nuuibers  at 
that  season.  And  this  place  being  an  ancient  and  capital  seat  of  Indians, 
they  come  to  fish ;  and  this  good  man  takes  this  opportunity  to  spread  the 
net  of  the  gospel  to  fish  for  their  souls.  Here  it  may  not  be  impertinent  to 
give  you  the  relation  following.  May  5.  1674,  according  to  our  usual 
custom.  Mr.  Eliot  and  myself  took  our  journey  to  Wamesit,  or  Pawtuckett; 
and  arriving  there  that  evening,  Mr.  Eliot  preached  to  as  many  of  them  as 
could  be  got  together  out  of  Matt,  xxii,  1-14,  the  parable  of  the  marriage 
of  the  king's  son.  We  met  at  the  wigwam  of  one  called  Wannalancet, 
about  two  miles  from  the  town,  near  Pawtuckett  falls,  and  bordering  upon 
Merrimak  river.  This  person,  Wannalancet,  is  the  eldest  son  of  old  Passa- 
conaway,  the  chiefest  sachem  of  Pawtuckett.  He  is  a  sober  and  grave 
person  and  of  years  between  fifty  and  sixty.  He  hath  been  always  loving 
and  friendly  to  the  English.  Many  endeavors  have  been  used  several  years 
to  gain  this  sachem  to  embrace  the  Christian  religion  ;  but  he  hath  stood  off" 
from  time  to  time  and  not  yielded  up  himself  personally,  though  for  four 
years  past  he  hath  been  willing  to  hear  the  word  of  God  preached  and  to 
 - 127 - 
lOG  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA.     ' 
keep  the  Hnbhath.  A  gient  reason  that  hath  kejit  hun  oft".  I  eonceive.  hath 
been  tlie  indisposition  and  averseness  of  sundry  of  liis  chief  men  and  rela- 
tions to  
pray  to  God ;  which  he  foresaw  would  desei-t  him  in  case  he  turned 
Christian.  But  at  this  time,  May  6,  1674.  it  pleased  God  so  to  influence 
and  overcome  his  heart,  that  it  being  proposed  to  hiui  to  give  1  
is  answer 
concerning  praying  to  God.  after  some  deliberation  and  serious  pause,  he 
stood  up  and  made  a  speech  to  this  effect  :  Sii's,  You  have  been  pleased 
for  four  years  last  past,  in  your  abundant  love,  to  api)ly  yourselves  partic- 
ularly unto  me  and  my  people,  to  exhort,  press,  and  persuade  us  to  pray  to 
God.  I  am  very  thankful  to  you  for  your  pains.  I  must  acknowledge, 
said  he.  I  have  all  lyy  days  used  to  pass  in  an  old  canoe  (alluding  to  his 
frequent  custom  to  pass  in  a  canoe  upon  the  river)  and  now  you  exhort  me 
to  change  and  leave  my  old  canoe,  and  embark  in  a  new  canoe,  to  which  I 
have  hitherto  been  unwilling  ;  but  now  I  yield  up  myself  to  your  advice, 
and  enter  into  a  new  canoe,  and  do  engage  to  pray  to  God  hereafter. 
"■This  his  professed  subjection  was  well  pleasing  to  all  that  were 
present,  of  which  there  were  some  English  persons  of  quality,  as  Mr. 
Eichard  Daniel,  a  gentleman  that  lived  in  Billerica,  about  six  miles  off; 
and  Lieut.  Henchman,  a  neighbor  at  Chelmsford;  besides  brother  Eliot  and 
myself,  with  sundry  others.  English  and  Indians.  Mr.  Daniel,  before  named, 
desired  brother  Eliot  to  tell  this  sachem  from  him,  that  it  maybe  while  he 
went  in  his  old  canoe,  he  passed  in  a  quiet  stream  :  But  the  end  thereof 
was  death  and  destruction  to  soul  and  body.  But  now  he  went  into  a  new 
canoe,  perhaps  he  would  meet  with  storms  and  trials  ;  but  yet  he  should  be 
encouraged  to  persevere,  for  the  end  of  his  voyage  would  be  everlasting  rest. 
Moreover,  he  and  his  people  were  exhorted  by  brother  Eliot  and  myself,  to 
go  on  and  sanctify  the  sabbath,  to  hear  the  Word,  and  use  the  means  that 
God  hath  appointed,  and  encourage  their  hearts  in  the  Lord  their  God.  Since 
that  time,  I  hear  this  sachem  doth  persevere,  and  is  a  constant  and  diligent 
hearer  of  God's  Word,  and  sanctifieth  the  Sabbath,  though  he  doth  travel  to 
Wamesit  meeting  every  Sabbath,  which  is  above  two  miles;  and  though 
sundry  of  his  people  have  deserted  him  since  he  subjected  to  the  gospel, 
yet  he  continues  and  persists. 
*'  
In  this  town  they  observe  the  same  civil  and  religious  orders  as  in  other 
towns,  and  have  a  constable  and  other  officers.  This  people  of  Wamesit 
suffered  more  in  the  late  war  with  the  Mohawks  than  any  other  prajang 
town  of  Indians,  for  divers  of  their  people  were  slain  ;  others,  wounded  ; 
and  some  cai'ried  into  captivitj^  ;  which  providence  hath  much  huidered  the 
prosperous  estate  of  this  place." 
The  picture  of  this  faithful  magistrate  and  friend  of  the  Indians, 
accompanied  by  his  "brother"  Eliot,  on  this  annual  visit  to  Wamesit, 
dispensing  justice  and  the  Gospel  to  the  red  men  there,  is  full  of 
interest;  and  the  convei'sion  of  AVannalancet  might  furnish  a  painter - 
with  au  attractive  subject.  Its  interest  to  Billerica  would  be  increased 
l)v  the  presence  in  it  of  Mr.  Daniel,  our  "English  gentleman,"  who 
 - 128 - 
THE    INDIANS    AND    WAMESIT.  107 
for  ten  3'ears  resided  here  with  his  ''noble"  wife,  and  then  returned 
to  England. 
Wannalancet  is  credited  with  building  the  fort  from  which  "Fort 
Hill"  takes  its  name  ;  and  traditions  which  seem  trustworthy  fix  the 
site  of  the  log  chapel,  in  which  Mr.  Eliot  preached  to  the  Indians, 
very  near  the  fine  edifice  of  the  Eliot  Church. 
In  the  summer  of  1(375,  when  the  alarm  and  peril  of  King  Philip's 
War  assailed  the  Colony,  these  Indians  retired  to  the  wilderness,  at 
Penacook,  (Concord,  New  Hampshire,)  to  avoid  being  inyolved  in 
it.  Still,  the}-  were  suspected,  and  in  September  a  company  of  one 
hundred  men  was  sent  to  ascertain  the  position  of  Wannalancet  in 
regard  to  the  war.  On  their  approach,  the  Indians  concealed  them- 
selves in  
the  woods,  and  their  deserted  wigwams  were  wantonly 
burned.  But,  though  thus  sorely  tempted  to  join  Philip  in  retalia- 
tion, the  sachem  did  not  forget  his  father's  counsel,  aud  restrained 
his  young  warriors,  who  were  eager  to  attack  the  whites.  He  soon 
after  went  farther,  to  the  head  waters  of  the  Connecticut,  and  there 
spent  the  winter.  The  next  year  the  Indians  were  allured  to  Dover 
and  unjustl}'  imprisoned  ;  but  the}*  were  soon  set  at  libert}^  and 
returned  to  their  Merrimack  home.  After  the  conclusion  of  the  war, 
the  sachem  visited  the  Reverend  Mr.  Fiske,  of  Chelmsford.  To  his 
question,  whether  Chelmsford  had  suflTered  much,  the  clergyman 
replied  that  they  had  not,  and  devoutly  thanked  God.  "Me  next," 
said  Wannalancet,  implying  that  he  had  restrained  the  Indians  under 
his  control.  Billerica  perhaps  owed  her  security  during  those  dark 
days  to  the  same  friendly  sachem. 
But  the  Indian  occupation  of  Billerica  w^as  not  confined  to 
Wamesit.  The  frequency  with  which  their  arrow  points  and  other 
articles  are  fouud,  shows  how  numerous  tbey  once  were.  Graves 
and  the  site  of  a  wigwam  are  still  shown  north  of  Jaquith  Brook, 
near  Concord  River  ;  and  the  north  shore  of  Nutting's  Pond  was  so 
distinctively  theirs  as  to  be  sold  by  them  in  IGGo.  The  hill  north 
of  this  pond  was  known  as  Indian  Hill.  In  May,  1665,  the  town 
granted  to  Henry  Jefts,  "four  acres  of  land,  lying  at  the  Indian  Hill 
on  the  north  of  y"  Indian  field  at  Nuttins  pond."  In  December, 
"the  bounds  of  his  land  purchased  of  the  Indians  at  Indian  Hill  by 
the  pond  were  taken  by  Ralph  Hill  and  Jonath  : Danforth,  which  are 
as  followeth  :  i.  e.  on  the  south  it  is  bounded  by  the  pond,  and  on  the 
southwest,  west,  and  somewhat  northerly,  it  is  bounded  by  that  land 
[above  mentioned]  ;   it  runnes  easterly  to  a  maple  marked  in  the 
 - 129 - 
108  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
swamp  and  a  white  oak  marked  beyond  it ;  both  which  are  oil  the 
west  of  the  high  cleft  of  rocks  \  and  from  thence  a  little  rounding  to 
the  N.  E.  corner  of  his  fence,  *  and  from  thence  it  turnes  towards 
the  pond  to  a  red  oak  with  a  rock  by  it,  and  from  thence  it  turns  a 
little  inward  to  a  bunch  of  maples  by  the  pond  side." 
Danforth  records  the  death  of  his  Indian  servant,  John  Warrick, 
1686;  and,  in  1681,  James  Speen,  Indian,  receives  "eight  pounds 
due  to  y^  Indians  for  four  wolves  heads,"  and  other  records  occur  of 
the  same  sort.  These  dusky  forms  must  have  been  frequently  seen 
in  the  early  homes  of  Billerica.  Did  their  coming  excite  fear  or 
confidence,  repugnance  or  pleasure?  Whatever  it  was,  the  sensation 
was  a  familiar  one.  And,  however  they  had  learned  to  trust  their 
Wamesit  neighbors,  as  the}'  observed  the  labors  of  the  saintl}'  Eliot 
among  them  and  the  fruit  the}'  bore,  the  fathers  could  never  be 
long  forgetful  of  the  darker  fringe  of  savage  humanity  beyond,  the 
working  of  whose  policy  or  passion  might  at  almost  any  moment 
involve  them  in  peril  or  ruin.  This  danger  hung  over  the  pioneers 
of  Billerica  for  more  than  fifty  years,  and  their  slumbers  were  likel}' 
to  be  broken  by  a  warwhoop.  In  our  estimate  of  their  faith  and 
courage  in  planting  the  town,  this  fact  should  be  remembered. 
The  earliest  indication  of  this  danger  afforded  b}'  the  Records 
occurs  in  "1667,  9™,  11.  At  a  meeting  of  the  selectmen.  It  is 
aoreed  concerning  fortification  in  this  Town,  That  ther  shall  be  a 
house  built  of  stone  &  brick  w^"'  a  chimney  at  y*^  west  end  of  it,  }'* 
dementions  of  y''  
house  to  bee  twenty-six  foote  in  length,  twentN'-two 
foot  wide  from  outside  to  outside,  with  a  doore  three  foot  wide  on  y* 
south  side,  near  y''  
west  end,  &  two  windows,  one  at  y"  east  end  &  }'* 
other  on  y"  south  side,  being  each  window  three  foot  wide  &  two  foot 
&  a  half  in  height,  all  in  y^  clear  ;  y''  walls  of  y^  house  shalbe  nine 
foote  in  height  from  y"  floore  to  y^  under  side  of  y*  plate  ;  also,  a 
floore,  lying  one  foot  below  y*'  plate,  with  crosse  rufiers,  y''  
long  girt 
lying  cross  y"  house  ;  also,  ther  shalbe  iron  barres  in  each  wijidow  & 
one  window  at  y**  gable  end  on  y^  east  ;  y^  roofe  of  y*  house  to  be 
sawne  stuffe,  covered  with  bords,  chamfered  &  after  shingled.  And 
for  y*  effecting  of  y"  premises,  we  do  agree  that  hands  shall  forthwith 
be  employed  to  digge  clay  and  stones,  &  y"  rest  of  y*  work  to  be 
cairied  on  with  as  much  convenient  speed  as  may  be,  according  to 
y"  order  of  y*"  
gen'^  Court." 
The  order  of  the  General  Court  was  passed  in  May,  1667, 
requiring  every  town  to  erect,  "  either  inclosing  the  meeting-house, 
 - 130 - 
THE    INDIANS    AND    WAME8IT.  109" 
or  iu  some  other  convenient  place,  a  fortification,  or  fort,  of  stone, 
brick,  timber,  or  earth,  as  the  place  maybe  most  capable,  of  such 
dimensions  as  may  best  suit  their  ability,  where  women,  children,  & 
the  aged  ma^-be  secured  iu  case  of  sudden  danger,  whereby  the 
souldjers  maj^be  more  free  to  oppose  an  enemy." 
But  this  fortification  never  was  built,  whether  because  the  tax 
was  too  great,  or  the  alarm  less,  we  can  onl}-  conjecture  ;  but  this 
description  is  interesting  in  depicting  the  house  the  fathers  would 
have  built  for  such  a  purpose. 
Plight  3'ears  passed,  find  the  peril  came  in  earnest,  the  most 
critical  hour,  perhaps,  in  the  history  of  New  England.  The  Indians, 
alarmed  at  the  growing  numbers  and  strength  of  the  settlements,  and 
incited  by  resentment  for  fancied  and,  perhaps,  some  real  injuries, 
rose  in  a  determined  eflJbrt  to  exterminate  the  colonists.  Philip, 
chief  of  the  Pokanokets,  was  the  leader,  enlisting  the  Narragansetts 
and  as  many,  others  of  the  natives  as  he  was  able.  They  fell  upon 
Swanze^',  and  soon  after  Brookfield  suflTered.  Deerfleld  was  burned, 
and  Hadle}'  attacked.  Springfield,  Northfield,  Lancaster,  Medfield, 
Wej'mouth,  Groton,  and  Marlborough  were  successively  the  victims 
of  savage  assaults  ;  and  where  the  next  blow  might  fall  was  an  ever 
present  dread  in  ever}'  hamlet  and  home.  Had  the  Wamesit  Indians 
joined  in  the  fray,  Billerica  would  probably  have  been  among  the  first 
to  suffer.  The  town  and  perhaps  the  Colony  owed  its  salvation  to 
their  friendly  neutrality.  Eliot  and  Gookin  had  such  reward  as  they 
did  not  foresee  for  their  benevolent  labors.  Other  reward  they  had 
too,  in  the  suspicion  and  bitter  denunciation  of  many  of  the  people, 
because  they  would  not  turn  away  from  the  friendly  Indians,  when 
the  popular  feeling  included  all  red  men  in  a  common  conspiracy  and 
malignity. 
The  alarm  came  unexpectedly  upon  the  town.  On  the  third  of 
May  the  selectmen  ''order  the  constables  watch  to  cease  this  present 
sumer  unless  greater  need  appear."  The  need. did  appear,  and  the 
following  pages  of  the  record  are  of  sufficient  interest  to  be  exactly 
reproduced. 
"13.  6'".  75.     At  a  publick  Towne  Mei'ting. 
"The  Towne,  considering-  the  providence  of  God  at  the  pi-sent  calling 
us  to  lay  aside  our  ordinary  occations  in  providing  for  our  creatures  and 
to  take  special  care  for  tlie  p^serving  of  our  lives  and  the  lives  of  our  wives 
and  children,  the  enemy  being  near  and  the  warnings  by  gods  providence 
upon  our  neighbors  being  very  solenme  and  awfull,  do  therefore  order  & 
 - 131 - 
110  HISTORY    OF    BILLEKICA. 
agree  joyntly  to  p^'pave  a  place  of  safety  for  women  and  children,  and  that 
all  persons  and  teams  shall  attend  y*  said  worke  untill  it  be  finished  ;  and 
account  of  y«  whoU  cliarge  being  kept,  it  shalbe  equally  divided  upon  the 
inhabitants  witli  other  Towne  charges.  Also  they  appoint  Serj"f  ffoster. 
gpi-jiit  Tomjison,  Sam"  Manning  &  Jonathan  Danforth  to  be  overseers  of  y'^ 
same." 
•••S.  8™.  75.     At  a  meeting  of  ye  selectmen  <&  comittee  of  millitia. 
'•In  persuance  of  an  order  from  the  Hon<i  Councill.  sent  unto  them  by 
warrant  from  y"^  worshp"  Simon  Willard  Esquir,  Serg"!^  Major,  in  i-eference 
to  the  gathering  tlie  inhabitants  of  the  towne  into  severall  garrisons 
according  to  their  best  capacity. 
'■^  
Imprs.  They  liave  ordered  serg"'  Hiirs  house  to  be  a  garrison  for 
that  end  of  y^  towne,  taking  to  it  Nathaniel  &  Jonathan  Hill.  Tho  :  Dutton 
Jun^  1/.  W"".  ftVench,  Will'"  Chamberline  Sen%  &  Isaac  Cliamberline,  &  two 
soldiers  ;   nine  soldiers  &  five  houses. 
"2.  flfor  y*'  
South  end  of  y^  towne  Serg"'  flfoster's  house  is  appointed  & 
so  to  take  to  it  his  son  Joseph  fibster,  James  ftVost,  Joseph  fiVench,  Joseph 
Walker,  Daniel  Rogers,  John  Kitteridge,  Thomas  Richardson,  and  two 
soldiers;   ten  soldiers  and  six  liouses. 
'^'3.  They  appoint  Simon  Crosbees  house  for  garrison  and  to  receive 
Mr.  Daniel,  in  cases,  William  and  Jacob  Hamlet,  Jonathan  Hides,  Serj'. 
Tompson.  Peter  Bracket  and  three  soldiers;   7  families. 
''4.  They  order  to  the  Reverend  Mr.  Samuel  Wliiting,  his  house, 
Thomas  Dutton  Sen''  &  his  son  John,  Daniel  Shed  Sen''  &  his  son  John 
Shed,  John  DuiTant,  John  Rogers  Sen"^  &  his  three  sons,  John.  Thomas  & 
Nathaniel  Rogers,  and  two  soldiers;  eleven  soldiei's  &  six  families;  &  this 
to  bee  y'^  maine  garrison  &  y^  last  refuge  in  case  of  extremitj^ 
"5.  They  appoint  Thomas  Pattins  house  for  garrison  and  to  entertaine 
Goldin  Moore,  Samuel  fi'rost,  Jno  Kidder,  Roger  Toothaker  &  John  Trull  ; 
seven  soldiers  &  five  families. 
•'G.  They  appoint  James  Patterson's  house  for  garrison  &  to  enter- 
taine John  Baldwin,  Edward  &  Tho^.  Farmer,  Henery  &  John  Jeitts  &  two 
soldiers;   8  soldiers  &  4  families. 
"'7.  Whereas  severall  at  y^  north  end  of  y^  towne  have  already 
departed  their  own  Habitations  &  several  of  y'"  vnwilling  to  returne  to  y"" 
againe  at  ye  present.  Hence  they  order  them  to  be  entertained  in  y^  body 
of  ye  towne. 
"8.  They  order  Serg"^'  Kidder  &  Jonathan  Danforth's  houses  to  be 
garrison  houses,  &  to  entertaine  as  shall  after  be  ordered  to  theui. 
"9.  They  order  that  y'^  ij^ons  ordered  to  each  garrison  shall  dispose  of 
their  corne  (acording  to  ye  order  of  y«  Councill)  neer  unto  their  owne 
garrisons,  unless  they  can  els  where  better  secure  the  same. 
"10.  They  order  that  every  p^on  afores<i  shall  equally  contribute  in 
labour  or  otherwise  to  fortify  each  house  of  garrison  to  which  they  are 
api)olnted  and  seasonably  to  attend  y^  same,  acording  to  y^  Councill's  order, 
both  psons  &  teames  to  attend  ye  same  as  in  y®  order  of  highway  worke  is 
 - 132 - 
 - 133 - 
 - 134 - 
THE    INDIANS    AND    WAMESIT.  HI 
reciuired,  untill  y*^  worke  be  clone.  Only  in  case  Mv.  Daniel  and  Mr.  Laine 
fortify  themselves  (they  being  very  far  from  neighbours)  they  shall  then 
be  freed  from  fortifying  y"  garrisons  to  which  they  are  appointed.  And 
are  also  Empowered  to  keape  a  watch  at  their  owne  and  to  examine  p^ons 
as  other  watches  may  do. 
'■11.  They  order  that  the  Comitee  of  millitia  &  selectmen,  each  person 
that  do  pertaine  to  any  garrison,  shall  oixler  &  regulate  y®  worke  of  y*^  same 
as  overseers,  &  Serg°'  Kidder  is  appointed  overseer  of  Mr.  Whiting's 
garrison,  Joseph  Tompson  of  Thomas  Pattin's,  &  Jonathan  Danforth  of 
James  Paterson's  garrison,  &  that  any  three  of  y^  s"  Comitee  &  selectmen 
may  determine  what  shalbe  done  in  reference  to  the  fortifying  each  gari-ison 
&  to  determine  any  difference  that  may  arise  respecting  y^  same. 
'"12.  They  order  that  all  brush  &  underwood  near  y^  aforesaid  garri- 
sons shalbe  cutt  up  and  cleared  away,  acording  to  the  Council's  order,  each 
person  to  attend  ye  same  both  for  time  &  place  as  they  shall  have  after 
order.  Also  they  order  each  inhabitant  to  attend  their  severall  watches,  as 
formerly,  untill  further  ordei'." 
"14.  8m.  1675.  At  a  meeting  of  y^  Hon''  major  .Willard,  The  Select 
men,  &  Comittee  of  millitia.  These  severall  orders  were  read  before  y^ 
Hon"i  Major  afores'^,  considered  and  allowed  by  him,  &  ye  inhabitants 
enjoyned  to  attend  y^  same. 
"At  the  same  time  George  ffiirley's  house  is  allowed  for  garrison  and 
to  entertain  more  as  it  may  be  capable  in  time  of  extremity,  as  shalbe  after 
ordered  to  him. 
''Also  Jacob  Frenches  house  is  allowed  for  a  garrison  and  to  entertain 
John  French,  Corp'  Marshall,  Thomas  Rosse,  Will™  Chamberline  Jun^  & 
two  soldiers  ;  seaven  soldiers  &  four  houses  ;  and  Corporal  Marshall  to  be 
y<^  overseer  &  master  of  the  garrison. 
'•Also,  to  Sargent  Kidder's  house  is  ordered  Daniel  Shed  Jun,  Samuel 
Trull  &  John  Brackit,  James  Kidder  Junr.  and  two  soldiers  ;  7  soldiers  & 
4  families. 
"To  Jonathan  Danforth's  house  is  ordered  Samuel  Manning.  John 
Dunkin,  Jonathan  Danforth  Junr,  &  2  soldiers;    6  soldiers  &  3  families. 
'•The  Masters  of  y<^  severall  garrison  houses  are  the  Rev^'  Mr.  Whiting, 
Sergn'  Kidder,  Serg"*  Foster,^  Sei'g"f  Hill,  Serg"'  Tompson,  Corp"  Marshall, 
Jonathan  Danforth,  Thomas  Pattin  &  James  Paterson. 
"Also,  Timothy  Brookes  house  is  allowed  for  garrison  &  to  entertain 
Michael  Bacon's  family,  &  to  have  two  garrison  soldiers  to  defend  ye  mill 
&  himself  y"  master  of  the  garrison. 
"Also,  it  is  ordered  that  the  severall  soldiers  sent  hither  to  garrison 
shall  assist  in  fortifying  y  severall  houses  to  which  they  are  appointed,  as 
also  to  clear  away  such  brush  as  is  near  such  houses  appointed  for  garrison, 
as  they  shall  be  ordered  from  time  to  time. 
•'Also,  it  is  ordered  that  no  hsted  soldier  of  the  Troop,  or  of  y«  foot 
company,  shall  remove  their  habitations  &  abode  out  of  the  town  without 
lihertv  first  had  &  obtained  from  the  Major  of   y*^  regiment  or  Comittee 
 - 135 - 
112  HISTORY   OF    BILLERICA. 
of  millitia  &  selectmen  of  the  town,  on  y^  peril  of  such  a  fine  as  shalbe 
imposed  on  them  by  such  authority  as  shall  have  power  to  determine  y® 
same. 
"■Neither  shall  any  soldier  af ores'*  absent  himself  out  of  the  towne 
about  any  private  occations  of  his  owne  without  leave  first  had  and  obtained 
from  ye  master  of  the  garison  to  which  tliey  belong,  vnder  the  penalty  of 
five  shilling's  p  day  for  every  such  defect,  to  be  levied  bj'^  y**  Clark  of  ye 
band,  as  other  fines  for  defect  in  training  days  are  levied. 
"■And  fiuther,  it  is  ordered,  in  case  of  an  alarme  every  soldier  shall 
repair  to  y*"  garrison  vnto  which  he  is  appointed. 
"And  in  case  any  garison  house  be  set  upon  by  y'=  enemje,  Then  y« 
garrisons  next  to  them  shall  send  reliefe  to  them  as  they  are  capable,  not 
leaving  their  owne  garrison  without  competent  security  for  the  time. 
"And  in  case  of  need,  the  women  &  children  shall  be  conveyed  to  y^ 
inaine  garison,  if  it  may  bee  Avith  safety,  that  so  there  maybe  the  better 
supply  in  case  of  need,  the  cheife  officer  to  order  and  regulate  the  same, 
where  there  may  be  time  so  to  do. 
"Also,  the  soldiers  in  garrison  with  us  and  the  rest  of  the  inhabitants 
yet  remain  vnder  y^  comand  of  y<^  cheife  officer,  for  ranging  and  scouting, 
as  the  case  ma}'  require,  still  securing  y®  towne  in  general. 
"Also,  it  is  ordered,  that  every  pson  that  shall  shoot  off"  a  gun,  small 
or  great,  without  leave  from  a  coinander  or  in  case  of  offence  or  defence 
against  an  enemie,  shall  pay  as  a  fine  two  shillings  &  six  pence,  or  set  oft 
so  much  of  their  wages  if  they  be  garison  men. 
"Also,  the  Selectmen  &  Comittee  shall  have  further  power  to  act  in 
and  about  the  premises  (keeping  to  the  order  of  the  Hon"!  Council  afore- 
said) so  as  may  best  conduce  to  the  benefit  of  the  wholl,  although  in  some 
respects  altering  what  is  alreadj^  ordered. 
"Also.  Job  Laine  was  allowed  to  fortify  his  owne  house,  and  to  have 
two  soldiei's  for  garrison  men  to  defend  his  house,  in  case  y®  country  could 
spare  them. 
"  All  this  is  allowed  &  confirmed  by  me, 
"Si:  Willard.  Serj.-3Iajor.''' 
It  needs  no  lively  imagination,  reading  between  the  lines  of  this 
record,  to  depicit  something  of  the  tumult,  hardship,  and  peril  through 
which  Billerica  was  passing.  Families  fled  from  their  homes  to  the 
garrison-houses,  or  the  greater  security  of  the  lower  towns.  The 
labors  of  the  field  gave  place  to  fortifying,  scouting,  and  watching. 
The  corn  must  be  removed  to  safer  receptacles.  They  organize  a 
military  company  with  Jonathan  Danforth,  lieutenant,  and  James 
Kidder,  ensign.  Some  of  their  own  brave  sons  enlist  in  the  service 
of  the  Colony  and  march  to  peril  and  death.  Timoth}'  Farley  was 
killed  at  Quaboag,  August  2,  in  the  assault  on  Lieutenant  Wheeler's 
company,  and  John  French   carried  through  life  the  effect  of  the 
 - 136 - 
THE   INDIANS    AND    WAMESIT.  113 
wounds  received  there.  And  two  mothers  approaching  their  con- 
finement sought  comfort  and  safet}'  in  Charlestown  —  the  wives  of 
John  Marshall  and  of  the  pastor  ;  nor  is  it  too  much  to  infer  that 
the  anxiety  and  hardship  they  had  suffered  may  explain  the  death,  in 
a  few  da3-s,  of  the  sons  born  to  them  there. ^ 
Forty-eight  families  are  enumerated  in  the  list  of  assignments 
above  given.  In  1677,  a  question  arose  and  it  was  decided  by  the 
General  Court,  that  the  families  who  "departed  the  town"  at  this 
time  should  pay  their  war  tax  in  Billerica.  The  names  of  seven  are 
recorded  as  involved  in  this  decision.  Three  of  these  are  included 
in  the  above  forty-eight  :  Timothy  Brooks,  Michael  Bacon,  and 
Joseph  Foster.  The  four  others  who  fled  from  the  town  were  John 
Blood,  Robert  Blood,  Josiah  Bracket,  and  John  Poulter.  But  the 
Blood  brothers,  notwithstanding  this  decision,  seem  to  have  been 
doubtfully*  attached  to  Billerica,  and  were  soon  after  recognized  as 
belonging  to  Concord.     Billerica  had  then  fifty  families,  in  1675. 
The  location  of  these  garrisons  was  substantially  as  follows  : 
Sergt.  Ralph  Hill's  house  was  near  Mrs.  Bo^'den's  and  opposite  the 
late  Captain  Ranlett's.  It  stood  till  about  1850.  Sergt.  Thomas 
Foster's  house  was  near  Mr.  Mason's,  southeast  of  Bare  Hill  ;  and 
Simon  Crosby's  was  northwest  of  the  same  hill,  near  the  fork  of  the 
Lexington  and  Woburn  Roads.  Rev.  Samuel  Whiting's,  the  main 
garrison,  was  just  north  of  Charnstaffe  Lane  and  west  of  the  brook. 
Thomas  Patten's  was  near  the  house  of  Mr.  Frank  Richardson. 
James  Paterson's  was  the  most  northerly  garrison,  near  Mr.  Sanborn's. 
Sergeant  Kidder's  and  Jonathan  Danforth's  were  opposite  each  other 
on  West  Street,  the  former  on  the  south  side,  where  Gardner  Parker, 
Esq.,  lives  ;  and  Danforth's  still  standing,  or  rather  just  disappearing 
as  this  is  written,  in  1879,  the  only  structure  in  town  which  is  an 
incontestible  relic  of  that  day.  George  Farle^-'s  was  near  the  Jaquith 
place,  southwest  of  the  village  ;  and  Jacob  French's  was  near,  if  not 
identical  with,  the  house  in  which  Mr.  James  Fletcher  resides,  a 
half-mile  east  of  the  village.  Mr.  French's  house,  j-ears  later,  stood 
on  the  east  side  of  the  road,  but  he  may  have  changed  his  own 
residence  ;  or,  as  uncertain  as  roads  often  were  in  those  daj-s,  this 
may  easily  have  been  turned  from  one  side  of  the  house  to  the  other. 
Certainly  the  brick-lined  walls  and  general  structure  of  this  venerable 
3  See  baptismal  record  of  the  First  Church,  Charlestown,  in  Historical  atid  Gemalogicai 
Register.    Vol.  XXVI,  p.  155. 
 - 137 - 
114  HISTORY   OF   BILLERICA. 
building  represent  the  architecture  of  that  period,  and  probably  they 
are  the  same  within  which  five  families  kept  their  drear}^  and  painful 
watch  and  ward,  in  1675.  Timoth}'  Brooks  owned  the  mill  at  the 
falls  of  the  Shawshin,  in  the  east  part  of  Bedford.  Mr.  Daniel,  who 
had  leave  to  fortifj'  his  own  house,  was  on  the  south  side  of  the 
Wobum  Road,  near  the  Shawshin  River  ;  and  Job  Lane,  who  bought 
the  Winthrop  Farm,  lived  very  near,  if  not  in  the  same  ancient 
house,  just  north  of  Huckins  Street,  in  Bedford,  where  Mr.  Hiram 
Button  now  lives. 
How  much  labor  was  spent  in  fortifying  we  may  gather  some 
idea  by  gleaning  from  the  record  the  fact  that  the  work  done  on 
Mr.  Whiting's  house,  under  the  charge  of  Peter  Bracket,  employed 
thirty  men,  with  several  cattle,  a  little  more  than  two  days  each,  and 
the  amount  credited  was  eight  pounds,  six  shillings,  and  nine  i>ence. 
But  the  blow  so  long  dreaded  and  guarded  against  did  not  fall,  and 
the  town  was  mercifully  spared  more  than  its  common  share  in  the 
burdens  and  losses  of  Philip's  War.  That  share  was  sufficiently 
trying,  and  bore  heavily  upon  the  inhabitants. 
Chelmsford  was  not  quite  as  exempt.  A  letter  from  that  town,* 
dated  "25:  12*".  1675,"  rejwrts  that  scouts  found  three  dwellings 
burnt,  "near  where  Joseph  Parker  was  formerly  shot,"  (he  with 
others  having  been  fired  upon  by  Indians,  but  not  killed,)  and  other 
signs  of  hostile  Indians,  and  the  more  remote  inhabitants  had  fled 
into  the  body  of  the  town.  Indians  had  been  seen  from  Billerica  on 
the  west  side  of  the  Concord  River,  and  fires,  which  were  suspected 
to  be  signs  of  their  presence.  The  letter  asks  an  order  to  Billerica, 
"or  otherwise,"  to  secure  "the  bridge  between  them  &  us,"  and 
adds  that  some  of  their  men  are  out,  on  Major  Willard's  order,  and 
some  on  the  other  side  of  the  Merrimack,  to  secure  the  corn  of 
Colburn  and  others  residing  there,  which  Lieutenant  Henchman  had 
orders  to  do,  and  carry  it  over  to  his  own  house. 
A  petition  from  Groton  illustrates  the  situation  of  Billerica  as 
well,  during  this  anxious-and  tedious  winter  of  1675-6.^  It "  humbly 
shows"  : — 
''That,  whereas  it  seemeth  meet  to  your  worships  to  cOmmerid  unto 
our  honored  Major  Willard  and  impose  upon  hiui  the  maintaining  a  con- 
tinued scout  of  forty  troopers  and  dragoons,  to  i-ange  between  Groton, 
Lancaster,  and  Marlborough  and  those  parts;  we  make  bold  humbly  to 
*  Massachuttits  Archives.    Vol.  LXVIIl,  1-14.  °  Sec  History  of  Groton,  p.  71. 
 - 138 - 
THE    INDIANS    AND    WAMESIT.  115 
present  our  conceptions  upon  that  account.  For  Marlborough  we  do  con- 
ceive the  present  supply  left  there  in  garrison  do  answer  the  end  more 
fully,  and  will  also  render  our  scout  an  unnecessary  burden  ;  for  Lancaster 
and  Groton  we  find  by  experience  that  the  safety  is  little  advanced  in  this 
way,  by  reason  of  so  long  absence  and  so  great  distance  of  this  scout, 
necessary  in  this  method.  Besides  the  incumbrance  lying  upon  us  for 
quarters  for  horse  and  men,  besides  the  drawing  up  of  our  men  from 
several  towns  to  such  a  limit,  seems  to  carry  inconvenience  with  it;  the 
towns  from  whence  our  forces  are  raised,  especially  Chelmsford  and 
Billerica,  being  weak  and  in  want  of  more  strength  at  home,  and  danger 
occurring  to  them  by  the  sudden  and  suspicious  removal  of  the  Weymessit 
Indians,  whose  troopers  do  hereupon  desire  a  release.  Moreover,  the  con- 
ceptions of  
the  towns  related,  conceive  humbly,  that  a  scout  of  garrison 
soldiers,  though  of  a  less  number  and  these  footmen,  whom  the  towns  may 
out  of  themselves  make  dragoons,  by  order  from  authority  as  occasion 
may  present,  would  be  more  for  the  security  of  the  towns;  besides  the 
hazard  in  which  so  small  a  number  must  needs  go  in,  as  we  have  sufficient 
gi"Ound  to  suspect  by  experience,  and  many  emergencies  which  may  sud- 
denly fall  out  before  address  be  made  to  your  worships.  We  humbly 
present  to  your  honors  consideration,  and  if  it  seem  rational,  to  alter  or 
add  to  this  matter,  according  to  your  discretion. 
'•Your  honors  humble  supplicants,                    "■James  Parker. 
Tho:  Wheeler. 
"Groton,  Feb.  6, 1675-6.  Henry  Woodhouse." 
Mr.  Parker  had  been  an  early  citizen  of  Billerica,  and  this 
petition  was  dated  only  three  or  four  days  before  the  burning  of 
Lancaster,  and  five  weeks  before  that  of  Groton.  It  was  written  by 
Rev.  Samuel  Willard,  of  Groton,  afterwards  President  of  Harvard 
College,  and  son  of  Major  Simon  Willard,  who  was  now  devoting 
the  last  energies  of  his  useful  life  to  the  defence  of  the  Colony  ;  his 
death  occuring  April  24th.  On  March  29th  he  was  in  Chelmsford, 
and  ordered  the  fortifying  of  Billerica  bridge  at  the  request  of  the 
people. 
At  the  same  time  Jonathan  Danforth  was  in  Cambridge,  employed 
as  the  following  paper  shows  : — ^ 
"  Cambridge,  28 : 1 :  
1676. 
"In  obedience  to  an  order  of  the  Honorable  Council,  March,  1675-6, 
appointing  us  whose  names  are  underwritten  as  a  committee  to  consult  the 
several  towns  of  the  County  of  Middlesex  with  reference  to  the  best  means 
of  the  preservation  of  our  out-towns,  remote  houses  and  farms,  for  their 
»  Groton,  p.  72. 
 - 139 - 
116  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
security  from  the  common  enemy  ;  we  having  sent  to  the  several  towns  to 
send  us  their  apprehensions  by  some  one  meet  person  of  each  town,  this 
day  we  consulted  concerning  the  same  and  have  concluded  to  propose  as 
f olloweth  : 
"1.  That  the  towns  of  Sudbury,  Concord,  and  Chelmsford  be  sti'ength- 
ened  with  forty  men  apiece,  which  said  men  are  to  be  improved  in  scouting 
between  town  and  town,  who  are  to  be  commanded  bj-  men  of  pnidence, 
courage,  and  interest,  in  the  said  towns,  and  the  parties  in  each  town  are  to 
be  ordered  to  keep  together  in  some  place  commodious  in  said  towns,  and 
not  in  garrisoned  houses  ;  and  these  men  to  be  upon  charge  of  the  country. 
"2.  That  for  the  security  of  Billerica  there  be  a  garrison  of  a  number 
competent  at  Weymessit,  who  may  raise  a  thousand  bushels  of  corn  upon 
the  lands  of  the  Indians  in  that  place ;  ma}^  be  improved  daily  in  scouting 
and  ranging  the  woods  between  Weymessit  and  Andover  and  on  the  west 
of  Concord  river,  on  the  east  and  north  of  Chelmsford,  which  will  discover 
the  enemy  before  he  comes  to  the  towns  and  prevent  lurking  Indians  about 
our  towns.  Also,  that  they  shall  be  in  a  readiness  to  succor  any  of  the 
three  towns  at  any  time,  when  in  distress  ;  also,  shall  be  ready  to  join  with 
others  to  follow  the  enemy  upon  a  sudden,  after  their  appearing. 
"3.  That  such  towns  as  Lancaster,  Groton,  and  Marlborough,  that  are 
forced  to  remove,  and  have  not  some  advantage  of  settlement  (peculiai")  in 
the  Bay,  be  ordered  to  settle  at  the  frontier  towns  that  remain,  for  their 
strengthening  ;  and  the  people  of  the  said  towns  to  which  they  are  appointed 
are  to  see  to  their  accommodation  in  the  said  towns. 
"4.  That  the  said  towns  have  their  own  men  returned  that  are  abroad, 
and  their  men  freed  from  impi-essment  during  their  present  state. 
•'S.  That  thei-e  be  appointed  a  select  number  of  persons  in  each  town 
of  Middlesex,  Avho  are,  upon  any  information  of  the  distress  of  any  town, 
forthwith  to  repair  to  the  relief  tliereof  ;  and  that  such  information  maybe 
seasonable,  the  towns  are  to  dispatch  posts,  each  town  to  the  next,  till 
notice  be  conveyed  over  the  whole  country,  if  need  be. 
"And  in  reference  to  the  line  of  stocadoes  proposed  to  the  serious 
consideration,  after  our  best  advice  upon  it.  it  is  conceived  by  ourselves  and 
by  all  the  persons  sent  by  the  several  towns,  that  it  is  not  admissible  for 
the  reasons  following  : 
'•1.  The  excessive  charge  to  effect  it,  maintain  and  keep  it,  tlie  line 
being  conceived,  by  those  that  know  it  best,  to  be  longer  than  is  proposed  ; 
neither  can  several  fords  fall  in  the  line,  unless  it  be  run  so  crooked  that 
it  will  be  more  disadvantage  than  profit. 
'••2.  The  length  of  time  before  it  can  be  accomplished,  in  which  time 
it  is  to  be  feared  that  many  of  the  towns  included  will  be  depopulated, 
unless  other  means  prevent. 
''3.  The  damage  it  will  be  in  taking  off  laborers,  which  in  this  season 
of  the  j^ear  had  need  be  improved  in  sowing  and  planting,  help  in  many 
places  being  very  scarce. 
"4.  The  usefuhiess  of  it,  when  it  is  done,  it  being  so  easy  a  matter 
to  break  through  it,  and  the  rivers  which  ai-e  to  fence  a  great  part  of  these 
 - 140 - 
THE    INDIANS    AND    WAMESIT.  117 
towns  are  fordable  in  several  places,  and  in  all  other  places  passable  by- 
rafts,  &c.,  which  is  much  in  use  by  the  Indians  at  this  day.  We  might  add 
the  great  discontent  and  mourning  of  the  people  in  general,  so  far  as  we 
have  had  opportunity  to  discover  concerning  it,  that  we  fear  the  imposing 
of  such  a  thing  would  effect  an  ill  consequence.  These  things  considered, 
besides  several  other  reasons  of  weight  that  might  be  added,  cause  us  to 
present  our  apprehensions,  as  in  the  first  place  we  did,  that  the  drawing  of 
this  line  at  this  time  is  not  admissible  ;  but  all  with  humble  submission  to 
your  Honors  in  the  case. 
"•Your  humble  servants, 
"Hugh  Mason. 
Jonathan  Danforth. 
Richard  Lowdon." 
The  share  that  Billerica  took  in  the  military  service  is  suggested 
by  items  like  these  'J  Samuel  Whiting  is  enrolled  among  the  troopers  ; 
Job  Lane  is  impressed  ;  and  Daniel  Rogers,  from  December  to  Feb- 
ruar}',  1675.  And  wben,  fifty  years  after,  Massachusetts  rewarded 
the  soldiers  in  this  war  somewhat  tardily  by  laud-grants,  the  following 
Billerica  men  or  their  heirs  shared  in  these  "Narragansett"  grants, 
proving  that  they  had  been  in  the  service  :  Samuel  Hunt,  John 
Needham,  James  Paterson,  Nathaniel  Rogers,  John  Shed,  John 
Sheldon,  John  Stearns,  Joseph  Thompson. 
These  and  possibly  others  are  the  men  alluded  to  in  the  following 
action  of  the  town,  in  June,  1676:  "The  selectmen,  considering 
the  necessity  of  some  speedy  care  to  be  taken  that  y"  corne  of  those 
souldiers  that  are  now  in  the  country  service  should  forthwith  be 
dressed,  do  order  the  constables  to  take  special  care  of  y^  same,  & 
*  *  to  impress  persons  into  that  worke,  as  need  shall  require  ; 
&  that  y®  constables  lay  not  the  burden  of  this  worke  upon  some  few 
particular  persons,  but  as  much  in  general  as  may  bee,  only  taking 
them  most  that  may  bee  in  y^  best  capacity  to  attend  it  with  least 
damage." 
The  position  of  the  Christian  Indians  at  Wamesit  and  other 
"praying  towns"  was  one  of  especial  embaiTassment  and  hardship 
during  these  dark  days.  Gookin  was  their  candid  judge,  as  well 
as  their  true  friend,  aifd  his  estimate  of  their  attitude  was  amply 
vindicated  by  later  developments.*  They  were  honestly  friendly, 
and  desired  to  act  on  the  former  advice  of  Passaconaway.  Gookin 
wished  that  advantage  be  taken  of  this  fact,  and  that  their  forts  at 
7  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vols.  LXVni,  LXIX,  and  CXIV,  p.  104. 
8  See  his  account  of  the  Christian  Indians,  in  Archeologia  Americana.    Vol.  II,  p.  411. 
 - 141 - 
118  HISTORY   or    BILLERICA. 
Fort  Hill  and  elsewhere  should  be  manned  by  a  few  English  soldiers, 
who  could  direct  and  use  the  activity  of  the  Indians  in  the  public 
defence.  But  the  excited  imaginations  of  the  English,  generally, 
could  appreciate  no  distinction  of  friendly  and  hostile  Indians,  and 
every  red  man  was  a  foe  to  be  dreaded  and  distrusted,  if  not  shot  at 
sight ;  and  Captain  Gookin's  wise  plan  of  defence  stood  no  chance 
of  being  accepted.  The  hostile  Indians,  of  course,  sought  every 
opportunity^  and  found  manj',  to  foment  this  jealous}',  if  they  could 
not  win  the  Christian  Indians  to  their  side. 
Wannalancet,  the  Wamesit  sachem,  had  retired  at  the  beginning 
of  the  war  to  the  vicinity  of  Penacoock  (Concord)  ,  
and  subsequently 
to  the  region  of  the  upper  Connecticut,  resisting  overtures  from  the 
English  to  induce  him  to  return.  A  portion  of  the  tribe  remained 
at  Pawtucket.  James  Richardson,  of  Chelmsford,  was  for  a  time 
in  charge  of  them  ;  and  a  barn  or  haystack  belonging  to  him  was 
burned  by  skulking  hostile  Indians,  as  were  two  or  three  houses  in 
the  same  town.  The  unfortunate  Wamesits  were  falsely  charged 
with  these  acts  ;  and  a  party  of  fourteen  Chelmsford  men,  under 
pretence  of  scouting  for  Philip's  forces,  went  out  to  assail  them.^ 
Calling  the  unsuspecting  Indians  from  their  wigwams,  two  of  the 
party  fired.  Five  women  and  children  were  wounded,  and  one  boy 
was  killed.  The  others  were  restrained  from  their  murderous 
purpose,  and  the  outrage  was  severely  condemned  by  the  better  part 
of  the  English.  The  murderers  were  tried  ;  but  the  juries,  swayed 
by  the  popular  feeling,  would  not  convict  them.  The  Indians  saw 
that  however  friendly  they  might  be  their  lives  were  in  peril,  and 
fled  to  the  woods  for  safety.  The  Council  sent  Lieutenant  Henchman 
to  persuade  them  to  return,  but  at  first  without  avail.  After  three 
weeks  of  great  suffering  for  want  of  food,  most  of  them,  however, 
did  return.  The  Council  directed  Major  Henchman  to  treat  them 
kindly,  and  sent  Rev.  John  Eliot,  with  Majors  Gookin  and  Willard, 
to  encourage  them  and  try  to  persuade  the  Chelmsford  people  to 
treat  them  better. 
It  is  not  easy  to  determine  the  order  of  events,  and  the  following 
incidents  were  probably  concurrent  with  or  prior  to  some  of  those 
above  mentioned.  The  Court,  as  well  as  the  Chelmsford  men, 
undertook  to  punish  the  Wamesits  for  wrongs  of  which  not  these 
but  others  were  guilty.  They  were  summoned,  and  brought  down 
to  Boston  ;    convicted,  on  no  good  evidence,  of  the  Chelmsford  fires, 
»  FelVs  Annals.    Vol.  II,  p.  578. 
 - 142 - 
THE    INDIANS   AND    WAMESIT,  1X9 
and  for  a  time  imprisoned.  Most  of  them  were  soon  liberated  and 
sent  home,  under  conduct  of  Lieutenant  Richardson.  But  a  military 
company  was  encountered  at  Woburn  on  their  way,  and  one  of  the 
soldiers  against  orders  fired  and  killed  a  young  brave.  The  murderer 
was  acquitted  by  a  jury.  The  Indians,  alarmed  by  these  repeated 
wrongs,  again  fled.  They  left  behind  six  or  seven  persons  too  old 
or  invalid  to  accompany  them  ;  and  the  wigwam  in  which  these 
unfortunates  were  left  was  set  on  fire  by  inhuman  white  men  and 
consumed  with  all  its  inmates.  The  wretched  remnant  of  the 
Wamesits,  convinced  at  last  that  there  was  no  peace  for  them  in 
their  Pawtucket  homes,  finally  joined  their  chief  in  the  depths  of  the 
forest,  and  did  not  return  until  the  war  was  oA^er. 
It  would  not  be  strange  if  in  retaliation  for  their  wrongs  some  of 
the  "Wamesits  were  responsible,  as  was  charged,  for  later  assaults. 
Mr.  Hubbard,  the  pastor  of  Ipswich,  in  his  Indian  Wars,  thus 
explains  an  attack  at  Andover.  He  records  the  burning  of  a  house 
there  and  wounding  of  one  Roger  Marks,  and  adds:  "Two  more 
houses  about  Shawshen,  beyond  the  said  Andover,  were  burned 
about  March  10 ;  also  they  killed  a  young  man  of  the  said  Town, 
April  8,  the  son  of  George  Abbot.  And  another  son  of  his  was 
carried  away  the  same  day,  who  yet  was  returned  some  few  months 
after,  almost  pined  to  Death  with  Hunger."  Mr.  Abbot  lived  on 
the  Shawshin,  in  the  west  part  of  Andover,  and  the  inference  which 
has  been  drawn  from  Hubbard's  language,  that  the  houses  "about 
Shawshen"  which  were  burned  were  in  Billerica,  has  no  good  foun- 
dation and  is  improbable. 
Joseph  Abbot,  of  Andover,  was  slain,  as  we  have  seen,  on 
April  8.  The  next  da}^,  which  was  the  Sabbath,  a  special  alarm 
occurred  in  Billerica,  and  troops  from  below  were  summoned  to  the 
defence  of  the  town.  Increase  Mather  tells  us  :"  "This  day,  being 
the  Lord's  Day,  there  was  an  alarum  at  Charlestown,  Cambridge,  & 
other  towns,  by  reason  that  sundry  of  the  enemy  were  seen  at 
Billerica,  and  (it  seemeth)  had  shot  a  man  there."  A  letter  from 
John  Cotton  is  also  quoted,  saying,  "the  Indians  beset  Billerica 
round  about,  the  inhabitants  being  at  meeting." 
Read  Mather's  doubtful  statement  about  "  a  young  man  murdered 
there,"  in  the  light  of  Hubbard's  record  that  Joseph  Abbot  was  killed 
at  Andover  the  day  previous,  and  it  becomes  clearly  probable  that 
10  History,  (Reprint  of  1862,)  p.  133. 
 - 143 - 
120  HISTORY   OF   BILLEPJCA. 
the  trouble  and  bitterness  of  that  anxious  daj'  were  not  intensified  by 
the  actual  death  of  any  one  here.  This  probability  is  strengthened 
by  the  fact  that  Danforth,  who  records  carefully  by  name  all  the 
victims  of  the  massacres  in  1692  and  1695,  makes  no  such  record 
at  this  time,  as  he  sui'ely  would  not  have  omitted  to  do,  if  one  of 
the  sons  of  Billerica  had  then  fallen,  in  circumstances  so  sad  and 
striking 
Another  glimpse  of  this  Sabbath  alarm  is  preserved  in  the 
following  curious  paper.  John  Seers,  constable  of  "Wooburne," 
petitions  the  Court,  1676,  May  10,  complaining  of  John  Wiman, 
"for  resisting  his  impressment  of  a  horse,  when  some  time  last 
April,  Capt.  J"".  Cottier  marched  through  oburn  with  several  soldiers 
to  go  to  bilerekye  against  the  Indians,  he  having  a  warrant  from  our 
honred.  ma3-gor  Willard,  late  deseased,  to  m^'selfe  &  the  constable 
at  bilerekye,  to  impress  horses  or  anything.  *  *  because  of  the 
stir  at  bilerekye,  about  20  of  the  best  of  our  horses  &  men  were 
gone  up  to  help  them,  &  horses  were  veiy  scare."  He  goes  on  to 
recite  the  hard  words  and  resistance  of  Wyman,  and  prays  "for 
such  action  as  will  prevent  such  abuse,  *  *  that  soe  I  &  other 
constables  may  not  goe  in  fear  of  our  lives,  when  we  are  upon  the 
execution  of  our  ofess,"  etc. 
Plainly  the  dsij  when  twenty  troopers  from  Woburn  came  to  the 
rescue  of  Billerica  was  one  of  serious  alarm  and  agitation  here.  But 
the  days  of  this  dark  trial  were  approaching  an  end,  and,  August  1, 
it  was  ordered,  "that  the  gai'ison  soldiers  of  Billerica,  Chelmsford, 
&  Groton  be  dismissed,"  unless  those  towns  should  within  six  days 
make  the  necessity  of  their  continuance  appear  to  the  Council. 
Philip  was  killed  on  the  12th  of  August,  and  peace  ensued,  except 
on  the  eastern  border,  where  the  war  dragged  on  another  season. 
But  its  alarms  no  longer  thrilled  the  homes  of  Billerica.  Families 
could  return  to  their  houses  and  resume  their  accustomed  duties. 
Farmers  could  plant  and  reap  without  expecting  to  hear  a  warwhoop  ; 
and  Mr.  Whiting  could  write  his  sermons  undisturbed  by  a  sentinel's 
tread,  and  preach  without  having  guns  stacked  at  the  church. 
Groton  was  less  fortunate,  in  its  greater  suffering,  and  it  was  not  till 
the  spring  of  1678  that  its  exiled  inhabitants  were  able  to  reoccupy 
their  deserted  homes. 
Of  the  condition  in  which  the  town  was  left  at  the  close  of 
the  war,  we  have  fortunately  a  description  in  the  language  of  the 
 - 144 - 
THE  INDIANS   AND  WAMESIT.  121 
selectmen,  whose  petition  to  the  General   Court,  "167G,  8™,  12," 
is  preserved  : — " 
'^  Whereas,  by  an  order  of  this  Hon^d  Court,  May  the  last,  for  the 
levying  of  10  single  country  rates,  it  was  ordered  that  the  frontier  towns, 
which  wei-e  considerably  Aveakened  in  persons  or  estates  by  reason  of  y 
enemie,  should  represent  their  condition  to  this  Court. 
"•These  are  humbly  to  entreat  this  Hon'^'^  Court  to  consider  the  condition 
of  our  towne,  being  weakened  both  in  psons  &  estates  by  reason  of  the 
distress  of  the  war.  by  reason  of  some  persons  removing  from  us  the  last 
winter  &  spring  into  other  inland  towns,  &  have  paid  their  last  10  rates  in 
those  places  to  which  they  went  ;  others  put  off  their  cattell  or  took  them 
to  other  towns,  (for  fear  of  losing  them  here  by  ye  enemie.)  &  so  are 
lyable  to  pay  rates  where  they  are,  or  else  have  spent  great  part  of  them  in 
billetting  gamson  souldiers. 
''Six  persons  &  their  families  removed  out  of  town  &  paid  elsewhere, 
so  that.  Whereas,  our  single  country  rate  in  Aug..  1675,  was  14.  07.  09; 
when  we  took  an  exact  list  of  all,  according  as  the  law  directs,  y^  whole 
was  but  11,  10,  3.  We  humbly  intreat  this  Hon^d  Court  to  give  order  to  the 
country  treasurer  to  abate  us  such  a  proportion  as  our  rate  falls  short  of 
what  it  was,  that  so  our  inhabitants  may  not  be  burthened  beyond  the  true 
intent  of  y^  law,  especially  considering  that  part  of  that  estate  that  paid 
in  our  town  the  last  year,  do  pay  these  10  rates  in  other  towns,  &  we 
nevertheless  pay  o^  full  rate,  according  to  law.  Also,  we  humbly  intreat 
this  Hon'"'^  Court  to  consider  o'^  poor  towne  in  reference  to  the  great  charge 
we  have  been  at  in  keeping  garrison  soulders  for  the  defense  of  towne  & 
country,  both  the  last  j^ear  &  this  sumer,  which  in  all  does  amount  to  as 
much  as  12  men's  billet  35  weeks,  or  120  weeks  of  one  man,  the  bm-den  of 
the  same  lying  upon  some  few  men,  others  there  not  capable  to  do  it ;  also 
many  of  our  inhabitants  are  grown  very  low,  several  persons  at  this  time 
having  no  bread  corne;  yet  considerable  families  to  provide  for;  &  in 
genei-al  we  all  drew  very  heavily,  not  knowing  how  to  pay  our  dues  & 
maintain  our  families. 
'"We  humbly  intreat  this  Hon""*!  Court  to  consider  our  low  condition  & 
abate  us  in  our  after  rates,  as  in  your  wisdom  you  shall  see  meet;  so  shall 
you  further  oblige  your 
•'Humble  Servants, 
''Jonathan  Danforth, 
Ralph  Hill, 
Joseph  Thompson, 
John  French, 
The  Selectmen  of  Billerica.'''' 
Chelmsford  and  other  towns  presented  similar  appeals  for  relief, 
and  were  answered  favorably  ;   
but  for  some  reason  which  does  not 
"  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  LXIX,  f>9. 
 - 145 - 
122  HISTORY   OF   BILLERICA. 
appear,  answer  to  Billerica  was  not  made  until  1677,  October,  and 
after  a  second  petition  had  come  from  the  selectmen.  Then  the 
Town  Record  says  :^^  "the  Court  ordering  that  those  families  which 
did  depart  y*  towne  should  pay  their  ten  rates  to  us,  notwithstanding 
their  payment  of  them  elsewhere."  Seven  names  follow  of  the 
persons  concerned:  "John  &  Robert  Blood,  Mih  :  Bacon,  Tim: 
Brooks,  Josia  Bracket,  J"°  Poulter,  &  Jos  :  Foster"  ;  and  the  sum 
which  the  constables  are  ordered  to  collect  was  thirty-one  pounds, 
"and  to  add  or  abate  for  transportation." 
In  June,  1677,  an  expedition,  numbering  two  hundred  Indians 
from  Natick  and  forty  English  soldiers,  was  sent,  under  Captain 
Benjamin  Swett,  of  Hampton,  to  the  Kennebec,  where  the  Indians 
were  reported  to  have  six  forts  well  furnished.  It  ended  in  disaster  ; 
and  one  Billerica  soldier  who  was  involved  has  left  a  record  of  it  in 
his  petition  for  relief. ^^  Thomas  Button  states  that  he  "was  imprest 
from  Billerica  and  sent  to  the  eastward."  He  was  in  "that  fatal 
scirmish  in  which  Capt.  Swett,  the  worthy  commander,  was  slain, 
and  almost  all  his  offisirs,  with  about  50  men  and  21  more  wounded." 
Button  was  one  of  the  wounded  ;  "shot  through  the  side  of  my  belt 
&  through  the  left  knee,  «&;  fell  down  not  able  to  help"  himself.  He 
recites  a  long  story  and  asks,  with  apparent  justice,  for  relief  from 
the  General  Court. 
"  See  also  Records  of  Massachusetts.    Vol.  V,  p.  173. 
IS  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  LXIX,  209. 
1 
 - 146 - 
CHAPTER    VIII. 
INDIAN   AND   MILITARY   HISTORY. 
From  the  close  of  Philip's  War,  in  1676,  a  period  of  peace  with 
the  Indians  ensued  for  fifteen  years.  These  j^ears  were  not,  however, 
free  from  anxiety  and  frequent  alarms.  The  most  interesting  incident 
in  the  Indian  history  of  Billerica  during  this  period  was  the  procuring 
of  an  Indian  Deed.  It  is  found  in  the  Middlesex  Records,  Vol.  IX, 
p.  274,  and,  omitting  much  legal  phraseology,  affirms,  "that  Sarah 
Indian,  daughter  of  John  Tahattawan,  John  Thomas  and  his  wife 
Robert,  John  Nomphow  and  his  mother  Bess,  all  of  Weymesitt,  and 
Thomas  Waban  and  his  mother,  the  relict  of  old  Waban,  of  Natick, 
deceased  ;  For  and  in  consideration  of  the  full  and  just  sume  of  13 
pounds  sterling,  silver.  New  England  coj^ned,  to  them  well  and  truly 
payd,  by  Jonathan  Danforth,  of  Billerica,  for  the  use  of  said  town 
of  Billerica  ;  i.  e.  to  Sarah  aforesaid,  5  p.,  to  John  Thomas  and  his 
wife,  50  shillings,  to  John  Nomphow  and  his  mother,  3  p.,  to  Thomas 
Waban  and  his  mother,  fift}-  shillings,  etc..  Have  granted  *  *  all 
and  all  manner  of  Indian  right  and  claim  to  that  whole  parcel  of 
land,  granted  b}^  the  General  Court  of  this  Colony,  to  be  called  by 
the  name  of  Billerica,  lying  on  both  sides  of  the  Shawshin  river,  and 
on  both  sides  of  Concord  river,  bounded  by  Merrimac  river  North, 
Andover  North  east,  Woburn  South,  and  Concord  West,  to  have  and 
to  hold     *     *     without  the  lawful  claim  of  any  Indian  whatsoever." 
The  date  of  this  deed  is,  5  June,  1685.  Whether  the  motive 
which  led  to  the  acquisition  of  an  Indian  title  at  this  late  day  was 
purely  benevolent  may  be  doubted.  A  conflict  of  claims  as  to  the 
bounds  of  the  town  on  the  west  side  of  Concord  River  had  arisen. 
The  bounds  of  the  grant  from  the  General  Court  were  obscure,  and, 
in  1684,  the  Bloods  had  obtained  an  Indian  deed  to  quite  a  large 
tract,  claimed  also  by  Billerica,  in  the  vicinity  of  the  present  Carlisle 
 - 147 - 
124  HISTORY   OF   BILLERICA. 
Village.  The  line  described  in  the  deed  to  Blood  was  "to  begin  at 
the  North  corner  of  Mr.  Allen's  farm,"  or  not  far  from  opposite  the 
Two  Brothers  rocks,  "to  begin  to  state  a  straight  line  over  the  highest 
place  of  the  great  hill,  called  by  y*  Indians  Puckatasset,  till  it  come 
to  Chelmsford  line,"  inclnding  all  the  land  between  the  Bloods  farms 
and  Chelmsford  line,  "till  j'ou  come  to  a  little  brook  at  Concord 
village,  [now  Acton  line,]  and  so  down  to  the  great  river  by  Concord 
old  bonnds."  This  description  includes  meadows  which  Billerica  had 
gi'anted  to  her  own  citizens  twenty  j'ears  earlier,  and  to  which  her 
right  was  confirmed,  in  1700,  by  the  General  Court.  When  Billerica 
obtained  her  Indian  deed,  it  was  probably  felt  to  be  prudent  to 
secure  whatever  title  the  natives  could  give,  and  not  leave  the  benefit 
of  it  to  the  unjust  claim  of  the  Bloods. 
With  the  increase  of  English  neighbors,  the  Indians  at  Wamesit 
found  their  home  there  less  satisfactory-,  or  the  prices  offered  for  their 
lands  more  so,  and  gradually  sold  their  reservation.  "Wanalanset, 
Sachem,"  and  others  sell  to  Jonathan  Tyng,  1687,  December  2,  two 
parcels,  of  which  one  was  on  the  east  of  Concord  River,  and  is 
described  as  containing  "  the  old  Planting  ground,  which  the  Indians, 
who  were  the  former  proprietors  thereof,  and  their  associates,  used 
to  employ  &  improve,  by  planting,  fishing,  &  Dwelling  thereon,  for 
many  years  past,  and  contains  212  acres,  more  or  less;  and  is 
bounded  by  Merrimac  river  four  score  pole,  and  so  runs  in  a  straight 
line  nearest  the  south,  to  take  in  the  greatest  part  of  the  old  Fort 
Hill  ;  and  bounded  south  b}'  the  fence  of  the  old  Indian  field,  and 
West  by  Concord  river."  ^ 
Tliis  description  includes  less  than  half  of  the  five  hundred  acres 
granted  by  the  Court  to  the  Indians  there  ;  but  it  is  improbable  that 
they  would  have  sold  this  angle  between  the  rivers  first,  and,  if  the}^ 
did  not,  then  this  is  the  date  when  the  Indian  title  there  ceased. 
Mr.  Tyng,  however,  deemed  his  Indian  title  not  quite  sufficient, 
and  petitioned  the  Governor,-  reciting  that  he  had  given  satisfaction 
to  the  Indians  to  leave  the  same,  and  pra3'ing  for  a  grant  of  the  said 
lands,  under  "such  moderate  quit-rents  and  acknowledgment  as  to 
yo"^  Exc^'  shall  seem  meet." 
The  Winthrops  had  alread}'  raised  the  question,  whether  the  lapse 
of  the  Indian  title  would  not  open  the  way  for  them  to  reclaim  thej 
full  bound  of  their  earlj'  grant.     When  the  Indian  reservation  at 
1  Middlesex  "Deeds."    Vol.  XVI,  p.  647. 
-  Massaclmsetti  Archives.    Vol.  CXXVIII,  274. 
I 
 - 148 - 
INDIAN   AND   MILITARY   HISTORY.  125 
Wamesit  was  taken  from  their  grant,  the  Court  gave  them  leave  to 
locate  an  equivalent  elsewhere  ;  but,  for  some  reason,  they  did  not 
avail  themselves  of  this  permission.  Thej^  may  have  anticipated 
the  depai-ture  of  the  Indians,  and  preferred  to  retain  the  chance 
of  recovering  here.  For  this  purpose,  as  early  as  1679,  Mr.  Wait 
Winthrop  presented  a  petition  to  the  Court. ^  After  reciting  the  fact 
and  motives  of  the  grant  to  his  grandmother,  he  adds  that  "about 
y^  yeare  1661  or  1662  some  psons,  zealous  To  settle  3"  Indyans  in 
some  civil  and  ecclesiastical  state,  moved  y''  
Gen'  Court  to  gi'ant  pt 
of  s**  laud,  called,  as  I  suppose,  Waraeset,  for  an  Indian  plantacon, 
which  y"  Gen'  Court  granted,  ordering  y^  like  quantity  or  value  of 
other  lands  To  be  laid  out  to  us  in  Lew  thereof."  He  explains  why 
the  interests  of  the  family  were  not  defended,  in  opposition  to  this 
action,  and  proceeds  to  say,  "that  noe  land  hath  been  laid  out  since 
for  our  family  ;  and  Though  God  has  pleaded  our  Right  by  expelling 
y*  Indian  inhabitants  and  leaving  3'^  
land  in  statu  quo  prius,  3"et  I 
have  informatcon  that  some  English  have,  1)3'  Addresses  to  3'"  
Honr*^ 
Court,  petitioned  for  3*  same  or  part  thereof.  M3'  humble  request 
therefore  is,  that  That  which  was  soe  long  agoe,  and  upon  such  good 
and  grateful  consideracons  granted  to  us,  ma3'  not  be  disposed  from 
us,  or,  if  an3'  grant  to  that  purpose  be  alread3'  made,  the  same  ma3' 
bee  suspended  Till  our  Cla3'mes  and  right  ma3',  at  3'*^  
Appointment 
of  this  Hon'ble  Court,  further  appeare."  The  Court,  however,  seems 
not  to  have  favored  Winthrop's  petition,  and  Mr.  T3'ng  secured  the 
title,  which  he  sold  to  Borland,  in  1687. 
The  peace  secured  by  Billerica  and  other  towns  from  Indian 
assaults  was  precarious  and  maintained  onl3'  b3'  constant  vigilance. 
In  1689,  Dover  suffered  a  deadl3'  assault,  in  which  Major  Richard 
Waldron,  one  of  her  oldest  and  foremost  citizens,  was  barbarousl3^ 
murdered.  European  policy  was  perhaps  the  occasion  of  this  out- 
break, for  the  Revolution  in  England  gave  the  French,  who  ruled 
Canada,  a  pretence  for  instigating  this  attack.  Five  da3's  litter, 
July  12,  Lieutenant  Henchman  reports^  Indian  spies  around  the 
garrisons  in  Dunstable  and  asks  for  relief,  "20  men  or  more,"  a 
request  soon  repeated  b3'  the  selectmen  of  that  town. 
There  was  need  enough  for  the  military  company  which  existed 
in  Billerica,  and  of  which  an  interesting  glimpse  is  preserved  in  a 
report  to  the  "onered  govinev  and  counsel  and  jentlemen  represent- 
3  
Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  XLV,  173. 
*  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  CVII,  198. 
 - 149 - 
126  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
atives,"  giving  account  of  the  choice  of  officers,  1689,  June  17.* 
Captain  Danforth  led  the  company  out,  gave  them  liberty  of  choice, 
manifested  his  own  unfitness  for  the  place  and  willingness  that 
another  be  chosen.  Only  those  who  were  twenty-one  j'ears  old 
voted.  They  took  Captain  Danforth  at  his  word,  and  gave  him  only 
twelve  votes,  to  thirty-five  for  Lieut.  Joseph  Tompson.  Sergt.  John 
Marshall  was  chosen  lieutenant  and  Oliver  Whiting  ensign.  Samuel 
Frost,  whose  spelling  is  marvellous,  if  he  was  "Clark,"  makes  this 
return,  and  craves  confirmation  of  the  company's  choice  from  the 
authorities.  The  representatives  confirm  it,  but  the  governor  and 
council  "consent  not";  and,  disregarding  the  popular  will,  they 
"insist  that  Danforth  remain  Captain  and  Tompson  Lieutenant, 
though  Oliver  Whiting  is  allowed  as  ensign." 
In  1690,  the  English,  moved  by  these  constant  perils,  and  feeling 
that  there  would  be  no  security  as  long  as  the  French  held  Canada 
and  sent  their  Indian  allies  on  such  blood}^  expeditions,  laid  their 
plans  for  the  reduction  of  Canada.  The  result  was  disastrous. 
With  great  effort  and  cost  an  expedition  set  forth  under  Sir  William 
Phipps  against  Quebec.  But  the  delays  were  so  great  that  it  did  not 
arrive  in  season  for  action,  and  could  onl}'  return  discomfited. 
In  this  expedition  Billerica  was  represented  by  no  less  a  person 
than  Captain  Danforth,  as  appears  from  an  order, ^  
dated  July  15, 
1690,  "that  Capt.  Danforth,  now  going  forth  in  their  Maj'^'  service, 
in  the  intended  expedition  for  Canada,  have  liberty  to  hire  some  meet 
person  in  said  town  to  serve  his  domestic  occasions  in  his  absence, 
and  that  the  said  person  be  exempted  from  impress  to  any  public 
service  other  than  attending  duty  in  town  during  said  expedition." 
In  "1691,  the  Indians  fell  upon  Dunstable,  September  2d,  and 
murdered  Joseph  Hassell,  his  wife  Anne,  his  son  Benjamin,  and  Mary 
Marks.  Hassell's  father  Richard  lived  for  a  few  years  in  Billerica, 
and  was  a  ty thing-man  here  in  1679.  They  came  again  to  Dunstable, 
September  26th,  and  killed  Christopher  Temple  and  Obadiah  Perry. 
The  latter,  when  fleeing  from  Dunstable  on  the  alarm  of  1675,  had 
been  permitted  to  hire  in  Billerica  and  resided  here  for  some  j'ears. 
The  following  winter  an  expedition  was  sent  "to  the  Eastward," 
in  which  a  son  of  Billerica  did  good  service.  Belknap,  in  his 
History  of  New  Hampshire,  repeats  the  account  of  it  from  Mather's 
Magnalia  :     "A  young  man  being  in  the  woods  near  Cochecho  was 
5  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  CVII,  118. 
0  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  XXXVI,  166. 
 - 150 - 
INDIAN   AND   MILITARY   HISTORY.  127 
fired  at  by  some  Indians.  Lieut.  Wilson  immediately-  went  out  with 
eighteen  men,  and  finding  the  Indians,  killed  or  wounded  the  whole 
party,  excepting  one.  This  struck  a  terror  and  kept  them  quiet  the 
remainder  of  the  winter.  But  on  the  tenth  day  of  June,  an  army 
of  French  and  Indians  made  a  furious  attack  on  Storer's  garrison  at 
Wells,  where  Capt.  Convers  commanded  ;  who,  after  a  brave  and 
resolute  defence,  was  so  happy  as  to  drive  them  off  with  great 
loss."^ 
Capt.  James  Convers  was  from  Woburn,  and  his  plucky  lieutenant 
was  John  Wilson,  of  Billerica,  who  richly  deserves  to  have  his  long 
forgotten  part  in  this  expedition  recorded  here  for  remembrance  in 
Billerica.  He  came  from  Woburn  in  1683,  and  built  the  mill,  which 
long  bore  his  name,  on  Vine  Brook  ;  and  there  no  doubt  he  lived. 
In  1700,  he  was  granted  three  pounds  for  service  and  use  of  his  own 
horse  at  this  time. 
The  Indian  assault  so  long  dreaded  and  guarded  against  fell  at 
last  upon  Billerica  soon  after,  and  two  homes  were  made  desolate. 
This  sad  event  occurred,  1  August,  1692,  and  the  place  was  near  the 
turn  in  the  road  by  Mr.  Russell's  house,  a  half-mile  south  of  North 
Billerica.  In  the  earl}^  clays,  there  was  a  "cross-roads"  at  this 
point,  an  old  road  running  south  towards  Fox  Hill  and  the  village. 
On  the  east  side  of  this  I'oad,  and  south  of  the  other,  now  leading  to 
the  Rev.  Elias  Nason's  place,  was  the  home  of  John  Dunkin,  who, 
in  1670,  received  twent3'-fiVe  acres  of  land  here  for  the  "fat  ox," 
presented  by  the  town  to  its  deputy,  Mt.  Huraphrej'  Davy,  of  Boston. 
He  married  Joanna,  daughter  of  Henry  Jefts,  and  died  in  December, 
1690,  of  small-pox,  leaving  seven  children.  His  widow  married 
Mr.  Benjamin  Dutton,  whose  father  Thomas  lived  not  far  south  on 
the  same  road. 
The  other  fated  family  lived  opposite,  or  on  the  northeast  angle 
between  the  two  roads.  Zachary  Shed  was  the  son  of  Daniel  Shed, 
one  of  the  early  settlers.  He  married  Mrs.  Ann  Bray,  in  1677,  and 
their  home  was  blessed  with  five  children  at  the  time. 
Of  the  circumstances  of  this  attack  we  know  nothing.  None  of 
the  histories  of  the  period  mention  it ;  and  Danforth's  record,  giving 
the  names  and  adding  simples  "all  slain  by  y^  Indians,"  is  our  only 
iauthority  for  the  fact  of  this  first  Billerica  massacre.  Lancaster 
suffered  a  similar  attack  two  weeks  earlier.     Whether  the  same  or 
'  History  of  Woburn,  p.  178,  and  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  LXX,  196. 
 - 151 - 
128  HISTORY   OF   BILLERICA. 
other  Indians  came  here,  and  whether  it  wei-e  in  the  morning,  at 
noon,  or  in  the  night  ;  wliether  the  homes  were  burned  or  left  to  the 
smitten  surAdvors,  we  can  not  tell.  We  only  know  that  in  each,  the 
mother  with  her  eldest  and  youngest  child  perished  at  the  bloody 
hands  of  the  savages  ;  but  that  is  enough  to  stamp  the  dark  da}'  in 
the  memor}'  of  Billerica,  and  make  it  fit  that  we  glean  and  record  all 
the  little  that  we  can  of  such  sufferers.  Mrs.  Button  was  thirty-six 
years  of  age,  one  of  the  earliest  natives  of  the  town.  Her  daughter 
Mary  Dunkin  was  sixteen,  and  her  son  Benoni,  "son  of  her  grief," 
was  less  than  two,  born  two  months  after  his  father's  death.  If 
Mrs.  Shed's  age  were  the  same  as  her  husband's,  she  was  also 
thirt3'-six  ;  her  daughter  Haunah  was  thirteen,  and  Agnes  was  a 
child  of  two  3'ears.  None  seem  to  have  been  made  captives  in  this 
assault.  Four  families  at  least  were  living  as  far  north,  or  beyond, 
which  were  for  some  reason  spared  b}'  the  savages.  Mr.  Shed's 
brother  Daniel  lived  beside  him.  Beyond  wa's  Roger  Toothaker, 
who  at  this  ver}'  time  was  wasting  his  time  and  substance  in  pursuit 
of  the  witchcraft  delusions  at  Salem,  and  leaving  his  famil}'  to 
charitable  aid  ;  and  farther  north  were  John  and  Thomas  Rogers, 
and  probably  John  Levistone  ;  names  all  involved  in  the  still  more 
dreadful  experience  to  come.  The  wives  of  both  the  Rogers  brothers 
were  sisters  of  the  Sheds,  and  of  these  four  brothers  and  sisters 
living  within  a  mile  of  each  other  and  of  North  Billerica,  the  family 
of  Daniel  Shed  onl}'  escaped  in  both  attacks. 
The  Records,  Februar}'  27,  1692-3,  show  us  the  vigilance  which 
the  town  needed  to  maintain  under  these  trying  circumstances. 
"  At  a  meeting  of  the  milicia  in  Bilerika,  both  of  horse  &  foot,  in 
observance  of  a  warrant  from  our  honoured  Major,  for  the  renueing 
of  watching  and  scouting  in  our  Town,  ordered  b}'  the  militia  presnt 
that  the  watch  at  Capt.  Hill's  &  in  the  centure  of  the  Town,  &  a 
corporall  for  the  end  of  the  Towne,  be  careful!}^  observed,  &  notice 
unto  the  other  outskirts  of  the  Town  to  stand  upon  their  gard,  &  to 
require  to  keep  such  a  watch  in  their  several  quarters  as  the}'  are 
capable  of  keeping. 
' '  
At  the  same  time  it  was  agreed  upon  by  the  milicia,  both  gf  the 
hors  and  foot,  that  a  petition  be  drawn  up  in  behalf  of  the  Towne, 
to  be  sent  by  our  deputie,  Capt.  Hill,  &  b}'  him  to  be  presented  unto 
his  excellency  &  y^  honoured  Cowncell  &  Representatives  assembled, 
or  when  assembled,  for  some  easement  of  our  scouting  required 
of  us,  or  metigations  iu  our  public  charges  ;   this  was  agreed  upon 
 - 152 - 
INDIAN    AND    MILITARY    HISTORY.  129 
by  the  milicia  and  b}'  the  selectmen  &  severall  other  inhabitanee 
present." 
Another  aspect  of  the  life  of  these  anxious  patriots  comes  out  in 
the  subjoined  line  of  the  record  :  ' ' We  expended  this  evening  at 
Bro.  Crosbey's  two  pots  of  Rosted  cider." 
Six  months  later  we  find  the  following  order,  addressed  by 
Thomas  Hinchman,  Sergeant-Major,  to  Lieutenant  John  Lane,  of 
Billerica,  23  August,  1G93  :*  "By  virtue  of  an  order  from  the 
hour'''  Lt.  Govern'',  bearing  date  22  Aug.,  1693,  these  are  in  his 
majisty's  name  to  require  you  forthwith  to  Impress  eight  Troopers 
out  of  yo'  troop  und""  yo""  command,  well  appointed  with  arms  and 
ammunition  for  his  majisty's  service  ;  four  of  which  are  to  be  daily 
Imployed  as  a  scout  about  yo'  town,  especially  towards  the  great 
swamp.  The  other  foure  you  are  to  send  to  me,  upon  moon-day 
morning  Nexte  :  you  are  also  to  send  to  me  the  names  of  the  sold'* 
imprest  who  are  to  enter  into  sarvice  on  said  moon-day.  Wreof  you. 
may  not  fail." 
With  watching  and  service  like  this,  diversified  with  witchcraft 
excitements  and  trials  at  Salem,  and  with  an  assault  on  (iroton, 
27  July,  1694,  in  which  William  Longlej-,  the  town  clerk,  his  wife 
and  five  children,  with  two  other  children,  were  slain,  the  people  of 
Billerica  passed  these  trj'ing  3'ears.  The  second  massacre  fell  upon 
them,  1695,  August  5,  four  days  more  than  three  years  after  the 
first.  The  town  clerk,  who  rarely  turns  aside  from  official  record  to 
mention  incidents,  gives  four  lines  to  this  massacre:^  "This  day 
received  that  awful  stroke  by  the  enem}'  of  fivetene  persons  slain  & 
taken,  more  sad  than  that  we  met  withall  three  ^-ears  before,  when 
we  mett  upon  the  like  occasion."  Mr.  Farmer's  narrative  of  this 
event  was  the  result  of  careful  inquiry-  sixty  ^ears  ago,  and  is  as 
follows  '}° 
"•In  the  northerly  part  of  the  town,  on  the  east  side  of  Concord  Kiver, 
lived  a  number  of  families,  who,  though  without  gan-isons  and  in  a  time  of 
war,  seemed  to  be  under  no  apprehensions  of  danger.  Their  remoteness 
from  the  scenes  of  Indian  depredations  might  have  contributed  to  their 
fancied  securitJ^  The  Indians  came  suddenly  upon  theui  in  the  day  time. 
Dr.  Mather,  the  only  early  writer  who  has  mentioned  the  event,  says  it  was 
reported  they  were  on  horseback,  and  from  that  circumstance  •  
were  not 
suspected  for  Indians,  till  they  surprised  the  house  they  came  to.'  They 
entered  the  house  of  John  Rogers,  son  of  one  of  the  earl}'  settlers,  about 
«  See  p.  99.  s  Records,  Vol.  II,  p.  58. 
"  Farmer  aud  Moore's  Historical.  Collections.    Vol.  II,  p.  71. 
 - 153 - 
130  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
noon,  and  while  from  the  fatigues  of  the  daj'  he  was  enjojing  repose  upon 
his  bed.  they  diseliarged  one  of  their  arrows,  wliieh  entered  liis  neck  and 
pierced  the  jugular  vein.  Awakened  with  this  sudden  and  unexpected 
attack,  he  started  up.  seized  tlie  arrow,  which  he  forcibly  withdrew,  and 
expired  with  the  instrument  of  death  in  his  hand.  A  woman  being  in  the 
chamber  threw  herself  out  of  the  window  and.  though  severely  wounded, 
effected  her  escape  by  concealing  herself  among  some  flags.  A  young 
woman  was  scalped  and  left  foi-  dead,  but  survived  the  painful  operation 
and  lived  :for  many  years  afterwards.  A  son  and  daughter  of  Mr.  Rogers 
w'ere  taken  prisoners.  The  family  of  John  Levistone  suffered  most  severely. 
His  mother-in-law  and  five  jn)ung  children  were  killed  and  his  eldest  daughter 
captured.  Thomas  Rogers  and  his  oldest  son  were  killed.  Mary,  the  wife 
of  Dr.  Roger  Toothaker.  was  killed,  and  Margaret,  his  youngest  daughter, 
taken  prisoner.  Fifteen  persons  wei'e  killed  or  taken  at  this  surprisal.  The 
records  of  the  town  give  the  names  of  fourteen  who  were  killed  and 
taken  into  captivity.  Ten  were  killed,  of  whom  five  were  adults.  Though 
the  Indians  were  immediately  pursued  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  center  of 
the  town,  yet  so  eftVctually  had  they  takeu  precautions  in  their  fiight.  that 
all  ettbrts  to  find  them  were  unavailing.  It  is  said  they  had  even  tied 
up  the  mouths  of  their  dogs  with  A\ampum.  from  an  apprehension  that 
their  barking  would  discover  the  direction  they  had  taken.  The  shock 
given  to  the  inhabitant's  by  this  melancholy  event  was  long  had  in  painful 
remembrance."  And,  in  his  BiUcrica.  Mr.  Farmer  adds:  "Through  the 
lapse  of  years,  it  is  difficult  to  give  a  very  circumstantial  account  of  it, 
and  the  few  particulars  I  have  collected  ought,  perhaps,  to  receive  some 
deductions  from  the  brevity  of  human  memory." 
The  name  of  one  sufferer  on  that  day  has  escaped  record.  The 
other  fourteen  belonged  to  the  four  families  already  named.  The 
family  which  was  smitten  most  heavily  was  that  of  John  Levistone. 
The  site  of  his  house  has  not  been  identified,  but  it  was  doubtless 
near  that  of  John  Rogers,  probably  southeast^  He  was  a  Scotchman, 
and  first  appears  in  the  employ  of  Carrier.  He  had  married,  in 
IG81,  Margaret,  the  daughter  of  Thomas  Ross,  another  Scotchman, 
who  lived  on  the  west  side  of  Loes  Plain,  near  Miss  Allen's,  and 
whose  wife  was  Seeth  Holman,  of  Cambridge.  She  had  now  been  a 
widow  about  four  months,  and  was  cither  visiting  or  living  with  her 
daughter,  Mrs.  Levistone,  when  death  came  so  terribly  at  tlie  hand 
of  tlie  savages.  The  parents  escaped  and  their  eldest  son  John  ; 
but  the  daughter  Sarah,  aged  eleven,  was  made  captive,  and  the  five 
younger  children  were  all  slain.  Their  names  were  Seth,  Thomas, 
Mary,  Margai-et,  and  Alexander.  A  more  desolating  sorrow  could 
hardly  fall  upon  a  happy  home  in  an  hour. 
John  Rogers  lived  nearly  north  of  Mr.  Talbot^s,  about  eighty 
rods.     The  well  by  his  house  may  still  be  seen,  and  bricks  from 
 - 154 - 
INDIAN    AND    MILITARY    HISTORY.  131 
England  may  be  dug  from  the  cellar.  He  was  nearly  fift3^-four  yeai's 
old  and  had  lost  his  wife,  Mary  Shed,  seven  years  before.  Of  his 
six  children,  four  escaped  ;  but  Daniel,  aged  twelve,  and  Mercy 
were  made  captives. 
Thomas  Rogers,  a  younger  brother,  lived  near.  The  spot  has 
not  been  identified,  but  it  was  probabl}^  ver^'  near  where  the  village 
hall  and  school-house  now  stand.  His  first  wife  had  been  Hannah 
Shed,  and  after  her  death  he  married  Mary  Brown,  a  step-daughter 
of  his  father.  He  perished  with  his  eldest  sou  Thomas,  while  his 
wife  with  two  children  escaped.  It  is  a  reasonable  conjecture  that 
the  father  and  son  were  surprised  awa}'  from  their  home. 
There  was  one  other  victim  of  that  bloody  day,  whose  case  was 
if  possible  more  tragic.  She  was  the  wife  of  Dr.  Roger  Toothaker, 
and  her  home  stood  at  the  point  where,  in  later  yeai's,  the  Middlesex 
Canal  left  the  Concord  River.  Tradition  sajs  it  is  still  standing,  as 
the  ell  of  the  old  brick  Rogers'  house.  Her  personality  and  trials 
deserve  special  notice.  Her  name  was  Mary  Alleu,  and  she  was 
sister  of  that  Martha  Allen  who  married  Thomas  Carrier  and  was  a 
victim  of  the  witchcraft  delusion  at  Salem  three  years  before.  Not 
only  was  Mrs.  Toothaker's  sister  thus  fatally  involved,  but  her 
husband,  with  more  freedom  and  foil}',  neglecting  the  claims  of  his 
family  and  disregarding  the  a^Dpeals  of  the  selectmen  to  return  to  his 
duty,  left  wife  and  children  to  the  charity  of  his  neighbors.  Two 
of  the  children  were  apprenticed  b}-  the  selectmen  to  Joseph  Walker 
and  Edward  Farmer.  Trials  like  these  were  mingled  in  the  bitter 
cup  of  Mrs.  Toothaker,  with  the  Indian  alarms  and  the  massacre  of 
her  neighbors.  At  last  the  warwhoop  of  the  savages  sounded  her 
death-knell,  at  the  same  time  that  her  j'oungest  daughter  Margaret 
was  borne  into  captivity-.  If  the  remembrance  and  sympathy  of 
later  generations  could  aflTord  any  compensation  for  the  sorrows  of 
such  a  life,  we  might  search  far  to  find  a  person  better  entitled  to 
them  than  Mary  Allen  Toothaker. 
The  agitation  and  alarm  which  ran  through  the  town,  as  the 
tidings  of  this  bloody  work  spread,  we  can  form  slight  conception  of. 
The  day  was  Monday,  not,  as  some  traditions  affirm,  the  Sabbath. 
The  "garrisons"  would  be  soon  filled  with  excited  women  and 
children  ;  the  men  would  prepare  for  defence  and  attack,  for  pursuit 
of  the  retreating  foe  was  the  first  impulse  ;  every  nook,  every  tree 
and  bush  would  be  watched  for  a  concealed  foe  ;  and  for  many  days 
the  dread  of  another  and  deadlv  blow  must  have  shaken  their  hearts. 
 - 155 - 
132  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
Three  weeks  passed  and  the  alarm  continued.  Colonel  L3-nde,  of 
Charlestown,  was  commissioned  to  pursue  the  foe,  and  his  report 
discovers  to  us  glimpses  of  what  Billeriea  was  passing  through. 
'•Aug.  23.  1695.^^  Receiving  commission  from  the  Honorable  William 
Stoughton.  Lieutenant-Goveinor,  Comniander-in-Cliief  over  all  the  province 
of  ^Massachusetts,  with  instructions  for  his  Majesty's  service  in  the  county 
of  Middlesex  :  persuant  whereunto  I  went  that  night  to  Billeriea,  where  I 
found  about  tliree  liundred  men  in  arms  from  Woburn.  Reading,  Maiden, 
Medford.  Cliarlestov\n.  Cambridge,  AV'atertown.  under  conduct  of  ]\rajor 
William  Johnson.  Major  Jei-emiah  Swaine.  Major  Wade,  Capt.  William 
Greene,  Capt.  John  Greene,  Lt.  Remington,  Lt.  Homan,  Capt.  Gerfield," 
Sergeant  Bond,  and  Mr.  Sherman. 
"That  night  we  maivhed  to  the  river  of  Merrimack,  guaixled  the  fords, 
there  being  three  between  Andovei-  and  Chelmsford,  with  about  foity  men 
at  each  foi-d,  and  with  about  one  hundred  men  encam])ed  that  night  at 
Prospect  Hill,  that  lies  between  Chelmsford  and  the  river,  on  the  northern 
side  of  the  great  swamp  ;  leaving  the  remaining  forces  to  guard  the  town. 
As  soon  as  it  was  light,  on  the  24th  of  August  instant,  we  sent  men  to  thi^ 
top  of  the  said  hill,  where  we  had  a  view  of  the  said  swamp  and  the 
country  far  about,  but  could  discover  no  fire  anywhere.  Thence  we  pro- 
ceeded to  
range  the  woods  between  Andovei'  and  Chelmsford,  but  finding 
no  sign  of  our  enemies,  we  rendezvous  at  a  place  called  Sandy  Pond,  about 
eight  miles  from  Billeriea  eastward;  from  whence  about  eleven  of  the 
clock  that  day  we  went  to  the  great  swamp,  dismounted  half  our  men.  the 
other  half  talcing  their  horses.  We  caused  the  men  on  foot  to  pass  through 
the  swamp  in  a  rank,  each  man  at  a  distance  as  much  as  was  convenient  ; 
appointed  to  i-endezvous  again  at  Prospect  Hill  ;  Major  Johnson,  with  about 
forty  men,  compassing  the  swamp  on  the  west  side,  and  mj-self  with  the 
rest  of  the  soldiers  on  the  east  side.  Our  men  on  foot,  with  nuich  difficulty 
having  got  through  the  swamp,  gave  us  account  that  they  saw  a  new  track 
and  smelt  Indians  in  one  place,  but  did  not  judge  by  their  track  there  were 
above  two  ;  having  again  rendezvous  about  four  o'clock,  afternoon,  near 
Prospect  Hill,  having  before  noon  ranged  the  woods  belonging  partly  to 
Andover  to  the  eastward  of  Prospect  Hill,  we  proceeded  to  range  the 
woods  towards  Chelmsford;  rendezvousing  again  near  the  time  of  sun 
setting  at  the  chief  fording  place  on  the  Merrimack  below  Hunt's  gan-ison, 
where  1  advised  with  all  our  officers.  Having  no  prospect  of  doing  service 
against  the  enemy,  considering  the  evil  that  had  accrued  by  drawing  oft 
all  forces  at  once,  1  left  a  guard  of  ten  men  to  guard  that  ford,  under  the 
11  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  LI,  41. 
12  This  "Capt.  Gerlield"  was  Benjamin  Garfield,  of  Watertown,  and  his  name  has 
already  appeared  (p.  81)  as  a  member  of  the  committee  appointed  by  the  General  Court  to 
run  the  important  lines  and  decide  the  contest  between  Uillerica,  Concord,  and  Chelmsford. 
He  was  the  sou  and  grandson  of  successive  Edwards,  of  Watertown,  and  was  the  aucestor 
of  James  A.  (iartield,  our  lamented  President,  whose  recent  death  has  filled  the  world  with 
sorrow.  The  line  of  descent  is  Edward, i  Edward,-  Benjamin, ^  Thomas,''  Thomas,'"'  Solo- 
mon," Thomas,'  Abraham,*  who  married  Eliza  Ballou,  and  settled  in  Ohio. 
 - 156 - 
INDIAN    AND    MILITARY    HISTORY.  133 
direction  of  Hunt  and  Foster,  of  Billerica.  until  the  29th  day  of  August 
instant,  at  night,  and  then  to  be  dismissed  witliout  further  order.  Marching 
then  up  to  Billeriea  town  in  diverse  parties,  we  rendezvous  at  the  Ordinary, 
wliere  paying  off  the  army  with  thankful  acknowledgments  for  their  ready 
and  willing  service,  at  their  request  I  dismissed  them  according  to  their 
desire,  to  make  the  best  of  their  way  home,  whicli  without  doubt  they 
attended:   though  with  difficulty  by  reason  of  the  darkness  of  the  night. 
'"So  concluding.  I  am.  sir. 
"Your  servant, 
Joseph  Lynde,  Lt.-Col. 
•'Dated  at  Charlestown.  Aug.  25,  1695." 
"P.  S.  We  have  left  about  five  hundred  of  bread  in  the  hands  of 
Capt.  Datiforth,  who  was  ilot  so  prudent  in  the  disposal  of  some  of  wliat 
was  silent  as.  in  my  way  home  I  was  informed,  he  should  have  been.  I 
directed  him  at  my  coming  away  to  preserve  wliat  was  left  until  furtlier 
order.     Yours,  as  above.  J.  L. 
Eight  months  later,  we  read  the  situation  in  the  following  from 
the  Town  Records  : — 
"Aprill  6,  1696.  Training  day  evening.  At  a  meeting  of  the  com- 
mision  officers,  both  of  horse  and  foot,  by  vertue  of  a  warrant  from  our 
Major,  we  new  erected  our  watches  and  ordered  the  repairing  of  garisons, 
and  appointed  the  masters  of  them  and  the  number  of  souldiers  belonging 
to  them,  and  otlier  persons  &  families. 
"At  the  same  meeting  the  comitiou  officers  with  the  selectmen  ordered 
that  the  remainder  of  the  old  pouder  be  dispersed  among  the  severall 
gai-isons  acording  unto  the  number  of  souldiers  appointed  unto  them,  to  be 
eaqually  distributed,  and  the  master  of  the  garison  or  the  masters  of  the 
severall  garisons  unto  whom  the  pouder  is  distributed  to  becom  responcible 
for  it.  and  to  secure  it  and  return  it,  or  tlie  valine  of  it  in  money,  except 
there  be  occation  for  to  make  use  thereof  in  tlieir  own  defence. 
••The  same  day  the  selectmen  compounded  with  our  drummers,  John 
Shead  &  Samuel  Frost,  To  pay  forthwith  unto  John  Shead  twenty  shillings, 
to  clere  with  him  while  that  day ;  &  to  pay  to  Samuel  Frost  ten  shillings, 
&  to  clere  with  him  while  that  day ;   
but  it  hath  not  been  attended." 
Account  was  taken  in  July  of  the  ammunition  stock  in  the  hands 
of  Capt.  Danforth.  It  consisted  of  a  barrel  of  powder,  110  pounds, 
part  of  an  old  barrel,  68  pounds,  lead,  120  pounds,  flints,  130, 
bullets,  38,  and  match  "sufficient." 
These  savage  and  desolating  assaults  on  Billerica  are  incidents 
of  what  is  known  as  "King  William's  War,"  dascribad  by  Mather, 
in  his  De(:('n)iiinii  Lnctiio,siu)i,  and  extending  from  1688  to  1698. 
There  is  no  evidence  that  either  of  these  attacks  were  preceded  by 
any  warnings,  or  that  any  other  towns  suffered  at  the  same  time. 
 - 157 - 
134  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
The  dusky  foe  chose  to  fall  upon  some  unsuspecting  settlement  and 
beat  a  hastv  retreat  before  neighbors  could  rally  to  the  i-eseue.  This 
method  of  warfare  must  have  been  peculiarly  trjiug,  and  demanded 
ceaseless  vigilance.  Of  the  situation  and  anxiet}'  of  the  time,  we 
have  a  picture  in  a  letter  of  Christopher  Osgood,  of  Andover,  which 
must  apply  nearly  as  well  to  Billerica.  It  is  dated,  1696,  Aug.  14,^' 
and  describes  the  danger,  a  number  of  men  having  been  impressed 
from  the  town  for  the  eastward  expedition,  the  river  being  low  and 
fordable,  and  the  enem}'  coming  between  Exeter  aud  Haverhill. 
"The  people  of  our  Town  ai'e  under  such  discouragements  to  stand 
their  ground,  that  they  are  in  y''  amazement  of  their  spirits  about 
contriving  to  break  up  and  Remove,  and  every  one  to  shift  for  their 
lives,  though  it  be  to  y*"  
loss  of  their  estates  ;  and  some  garrisons 
already  are  upon  removing,  and  extremity  of  fear  and  dangers  will 
not  suffer  men  to  know  their  duty";  for  which  and  other  reasons, 
he  "makes  our  speedy  application  to  y""  honor  for  present  relief." 
Another  letter  relates,  "that  William  Peeters,  belonging  to  Samuel 
Blanchard's  garrison,  went  to  his  house  with  one  Hojt  to  fetch  his 
horse,  and  not  returning  search  was  made  and*  both  men  were  found 
killed  and  scalped.  The  house  was  about  half  a  mile  from  the 
garrison,  on  the  Bildrekey  road,  in  an  open  plaj-n  plase." 
During  all  these  years  of  danger,  the  inhabitants  must  have 
grown  unpleasantly  familiar  with  the  trouble  and  annoj'auce,  as 
well  as  the  peril,  of  garrison  life.  Houses  not  ample  for  a  single 
family  must  be  made  to  serve  often  a  half-dozen  families  for  shelter 
and  defence  ;  and  the  comforts  of  life  could  have  had  small  consid- 
eration. No  list  of  the  "garrisons"  is  given  after  1675,  but  that 
changes  and  additions  were  made  after  so  long  a  time  is  certain. 
The  tradition  is  probable,  that  the  Manning  house,  still  standing  on 
the  Chelmsford  Road,  was  in  use  as  a  garrison  ;  and  it  is  certain 
that  Samuel  Hunt's  house  at  Wamesit  was  so,  and  from  its  exposed 
situation  it  was  probabl}'  the  most  important.  It  stood  a  half-mile 
south  of  the  Merrimack,  at  "Hunt's  Falls,"  on  what  is  now  the  farm 
of  John  Clark,  somewhat  south  of  a  line  connecting  Mr.  Clark's 
house  and  that  of  General  Butler,  and  about  equally  distant  from 
them.  It  was  just  east  of  the  limits  of  Lowell.  Here  scouting 
parties  must  often  have  made  a  rendezvous,  as  they  passed  and 
repassed  from  Chelmsford  to  Andover,  Prospect  Hill,  and  the  Great 
'2  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  LI,  59. 
 - 158 - 
INDIAN    AND    MILITARY    HISTORY.  135 
Swamp.  -  The  latter  were  plainly  points  of  special  interest  and 
solicitude  to  the  watchful  inhabitants. 
In  the  history  of  these  Indian  Wars,  the  name  of  .John  Lane 
conies  into  view  as  the  leading  militar}'  man  in  the  town.  He 
appears  in  rapid  succession  as  lieutenant,  captain,  and  colonel,  and 
is  often  mentioned.  He  is  in  command  of  a  troop  in  1693,  and,  in 
1696-7,  Februar}'  12,  received  this  order  from  Maj.  Jonathan  T^mg, 
of  Dunstable:"  "Having  advice  from  the  Lt. -Governor,  that  at 
the  spring  near  approaching,  it  may  be  expected  that  the  enem^^  will 
make  fresh  attacks,  both  by  sea  and  land,  I  do  therefore  order  that 
you  make  inquiry  into  the  state  of  y^  troopers  under  your  command, 
and  see  that  every  one  of  them  be  mounted  on  a  good,  serviceable 
horse  for  war,  and  furnished  with  a  good,  well-fitted  carbine,  besides 
pistolls,  and  to  see  that  the  whole  troop  be  in  Readiness  to  pass  upon 
duty  ;  and  in  case  of  alarum  upon  *  Discovering  the  approach  of 
the  enemy  by  sea,  you  are  hereby  ordei-ed  with  the  several  Troopers 
under  your  command,  forthwith  to  repair  to  the  port  or  place  wuthin 
your  county  where  the  Alarum  is  first  given,  there  to  receive  and 
attend  to  further  orders,"  etc.  But  no  call  came  to  such  service, 
and  the  nearest  approach  of  the  Indians  during  the  years  1696  and 
1697  was  at  Dunstable,  Haverhill,  and  Lancaster. 
Captain  Tyng,  of  Dunstable,  writes,  1696,  September  1,'*  of  one 
person  killed  and  one  taken  captive  -'yesterday,  both  belonging  to 
my  garrison."  He  sent  a  negro  and  a  Spanish  Indian  to  do  some 
haying  across  the  river,  and  a  soldier,  a  Plymouth  Indian,  to  guard 
them.  As  they  did  not  return  and  the  dogs  barked  and  howled,  he 
became  alarmed  and  sent  word  to  Dunstable  and  to  Captain  Bowers, 
of  Chelmsford,  who  speedily  mustered  twenty  men,  crossed  the  river, 
found  the  men  dead  and  the  Spanish  Indian  asleep. 
In  1697,  Mai'ch  15,  came  the  attack  on  Haverhill,  immortalized 
by  the  heroism  of  Hannah  Dustin,  who  was  taken  captive  and  borne 
as  far  as  the  Contoocook.  There,  on  an  island  in  the  Merrimack, 
aided  by  her  nurse  and  a  lad  who  were  taken  with  her,  she  joined 
consummate  womanly  tact  and  masculine  heroism,  killed  and  scalped 
ten  of  her  captors,  and  reached  her  home  safely  with  her  trophies 
not  man}'  days  after. 
A  treaty  of  peace  between  France  and  England  was  signed, 
1697,  September  11  ;    
but  there  were  no  ocean  cables  or  steamships 
1*  Lane  Papers.  *^  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  LI,  63. 
 - 159 - 
136  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
to  bring  the  glad  news  to  America,  and,  eleven  days  later,  the 
treacherous  Indians  fell  once  more  upon  the  settlements  at  Lancaster, 
burned  two  garrison-houses,  and  killed  twenty-one,  wounded  two, 
and  took  six  captives.  This  massacre  brought  special  sorrow  to 
Billerica,  for  one  of  the  victims  was  the  Rev.  John  Whiting,  the 
3'oung  pastor  of  the  church,  and  .son  of  our  Billerica  pastor.  It  is 
said  that  he  was  oftered  quarter,  but  chose  rather  to  "fight  to  the 
last  than  resign  himself  to  those  whose  tender  mercies  are  cruel." 
The  welcome  peace  was  little  more  than  an  armistice,  and,  in 
1703,  another  ten  years'  war  broke  out,  known  as  "'Queen  Anne's 
War."  A  practical  sign  of  its  coming  took  the  form  of  an  order 
from  Major  Tyng  to  Capt.  John  Lane,  1702,  April  22,  requiring  him 
"forthwith  to  take  effectual  care  that  there  be  strict  execution  of 
the  act  for  regulating  of  y^  Malitia,"  and  especially  to  inspect  the 
force  and  see  that  it  was  duly  provided  with  arms  and  ammunition. 
This  order  was  not  neglected.  In  the  T>\a.ry  of  Judge  Sewall,  we 
have  a  glimpse  of  the  fruit  which  it  bore,'"  and  also  of  Billerica's 
aged  pastor.  Monday,  1702,  October  26,  he  writes:  "Waited  on 
Gou""  to  Wooburn  ;  dined  there.  From  thence  to  Billericay.  Visited 
languishing  Mr.  Sam'  Whiting.  I  gave  him  2  Balls  of  Chockalett 
and  a  pound  of  Figgs,  which  very  kindly  accepted.  Saw  the 
Company  in  Arms,  led  by  Capt.  Tomsou.     Went  to  Chelmsford." 
At  this  point,  the  Lane  Papers  contribute  a  useful  letter  from 
Gov.  Joseph  Dudley  to  Major  Lane. 
"Cambridge.  5  Nov.,  1702. 
'"Sir:  I  desire  you  with  two  of  your  troops  to  repayr  to  the  towns 
of  Marlboro".  Lancaster,  Groten,  Chehnsford,  and  Dunstable,  and  there 
deliver  severally  the  letters  given  you.  and  encourage  the  officers  in  their 
duty,  agreeable  to  the  several  Directions.  You  are  also  to  labor,  by  all 
means,  to  speak  Avith  Wotanunmion  and  the  Penacooke  men,  and  to  assure 
them  of  friendship  with  the  Gouernor  and  all  the  English;  but  that  we  are 
fearful  the  french  Indians  will  be  amongst  them  soon  and  do  mischief  to 
the  English,  and  that  therefore  we  must  have  our  scouts  out.  and  if  they 
will  come  and  reside  in  any  propper  place  near  the  English,  they  shall  be 
welcome;  if  their  hunting  will  not  allow  that,  they  must  keep  a  good 
Distance  from  the  English  towns,  and  send  one  man  only  to  Colonel  Tyng, 
when  they  would  speak  with  me,  and  they  shall  be  welcome  at  all  times, 
and  1  will  never  depart  from  my  friendship  to  them  if  they  will  continue 
friends.  Let  the  officers  in  the  several  towns  use  all  prudence  not  to  make 
the  first  breach,  and  let  me  hear  from  them  on  every  ocation." 
•8  Massachusetts  Historical  Society's  Collections.    Fifth  Series.    Vol.  VI,  p.  67. 
 - 160 - 
INDIAN    AND    MILITARY    HISTORY.  137 
Of  training  and  guard  duty,  we  may  be  sure  that  the  Billeriea 
farmers  had  enough  ;  and  the  kind  of  service  often  called  for  is 
suggested  by  another  order  from  Colonel  Tyng  to  Captain  Lane, 
1703,  September  3:'"  "These  are  to  order  30U  forthwith  to  give 
out  your  warrant  to  3'our  soldiers  in  Chelmsford,  to  watch,  Two  in 
a  night  and  the  daj-  following,  at  the  wading  place  at  Wamesit  ;  and 
to  continue  in  that  service  till  they  have  gone  Round.  The  soldiers 
are  to  keep  at  the  said  wading  place  till  they  are  relieved,  as  the 
custom  hath  been,  by  Capt.  Bowers'  men."  In  1704,  more  serious 
work  awaited  these  soldiers.  Early  in  that  3'ear,  or  in  February, 
1703-4,  a  party  assailed  Northampton,  surprised  the  guard,  and 
made  captives  of  Rev.  John  Williams,  the  pastor,  his  wife,  and 
manv  others.  Mrs.  Williams,  with  two  of  her  children  and  more 
than  twenty  other  captives,  were  put  to  death.  Mr.  Williams  was 
afterwards  redeemed,  and  published  The  Redeemed  Captive. 
In  July  following,  a  force  of  seven  hundred  French  and  Indians 
again  invaded  Massachusetts,  and  finding  Northampton  well  guarded, 
turned  eastwai'd  and  fell  upon  Lancaster,  Jul}"  31.  The  Boston 
News-Letter  tells  the  story  briefly  :  ' '  
On  Monda}^  morning  past,  the 
enemy,  French  and  Indians,  fell  upon  Lancaster,  about  four  hundred 
of  them,  assaulted  six  garrisons  at  once,  where  the  people  defended 
themselves  verj'  well  until  assistance  came  in  from  all  parts  by  the 
governor's  order,  so  that  in  the  evening  there  were  three  hundred 
men  in  the  town.  And  the  enemy  was  beaten  off  with  loss,  but  are 
3'et  hovering  on  the  head  of  those  towns,  to  make  some  farther 
impression  if  not  prevented."  The  meeting-house  was  burned,  with 
several  dwellings  and  barns,  and  Lieutenant  Wilder  was  killed  and 
three  soldiers  ;  but  the  rail}-  was  so  prompt  and  the  defence  so 
vigorous,  that  the  loss  of  life  was  smaller  than  in  the  previous 
assault.  Among  others,  twelve  Billeriea  soldiers  went  to  the  rescue, 
and  fortunately  Captain  Lane  has  preserved  their  names  for  us. 
They  were  "  Samull  Hill,  Corporal,  John  Needham,  Clark,  Raph  Hill, 
Centinell,  John  Farmer,  Samull  Hunt,  Andrue  Richardson,  Thomas 
Ross,  Nathanell  Bacon,  Samull  Hill,  Junr.,  William  Grimbs,  John 
Hunt,  Steven  Richardson,"  with  four  men  from  Chelmsford  and  three 
from  Groton.     "These  nineteen  were  sent  out     *     August  y''  
forth, 
1704,  with  ten  days'  provisions,  and  marched  to  Lancaster  to  inforce 
Major  Taylor  ;    and  they  never  as  yet  received   anything  for  their 
"  Lane  Papers. 
 - 161 - 
138  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
provision  ;  there  fore,  they  pray  that  they  may  be  considered."  It  is 
to  be  hoped  that  so  reasonable  a  request  was  properly  answered. 
In  November,  Colonel  Tyng  received  from  the  (General  Court  £24 
for  building  four  blockhouses,  one  in  Dunstable,  two  in  Chelmsford, 
and  one  in  Billerica.  A  blockhouse  is  referred  to  in  the  Records,'^ 
"nere  Andouer  line,"  and  may  be  the  same. 
It  was  probably  in  the  same  year,  1704,  that  Robert  Parris  was 
murdered,  with  his  wife  and  daughter,  at  Dunstable  ;  and  Joseph 
Hassell,  Samuel  Butterfield,  and  Samuel  Whiting,  Jr.,  taken  captive. 
Thus  a  second  time  did  the  bittei'uess  of  these  trying  times  enter  the 
home  of  the  aged  pastor  of  Billerica.  This  son  afterwards  returned, 
but  the  injuries  and  sufferings  borne  probably  shortened  his  life. 
To  this  period  belongs  an  incident  reported  b}'  tradition.  It  is 
good  enough  to  be  true,  and  comes  with  sufficient  directness  to 
strengthen  its  probability.  We  have  it  from  Mr.  Leander  Hosmer, 
who  is  a  grandson  of  the  heroine,  Mary  Lane,  daughter  of  Colonel 
John  Lane.  During  a  period  of  alarm,  the  familj-  was  left  with  only 
one  man  on  guard.  A  certain  stump  excited  the  suspicion  of  Mar}-, 
as  she  looked  out  of  the  window,  and  she  called  upon  the  man  to 
shoot  it.  He  declined,  and  laughed  at  her  apprehensions.  At  last 
she  told  him  that  if  he  would  not  shoot,  she  would  take  the  gun  and 
do  it  herself.     This  she  did,  and  the  stump  rolled  over,  a  dead  Indian. 
The  3'ear  1705  passed  without  special  incident,  but,  in  170G,  a 
second  attack  at  Dunstable  alarmed  Billerica  and  called  out  her 
militia  in  defence.  A  scouting  party  under  command  of  Captain 
Pearson,  of  Rowley,  was  surprised  at  Weld's  garrison,  the  Indians 
being  equally-  surprised,  and  a  blood}-  encounter  followed  in  which  a 
number  were  slain.  Another  party  fell  upon  Blanchard's  garrison, 
and  killed  Mr.  Blanchard,  his  wife,  a  daughter,  and  Mrs.  Hannah 
Blanchard.  Seven  days  later,  July  10,  there  was  another  encounter 
between  the  troopers  and  Indians,  in  which  Joseph  Kidder  and 
Jeremiah  Nelson,  of  Rowley,  were  killed,  and  John  Pickard,  of 
Rowle}',  was  mortally  wounded,  dying  in  Billerica,  August  5th. 
Billerica  was  prompt  in  sending  relief,  and  the  Papers  of  Captain 
Lane  give  us  :  — 
•'  A  List  of  the  Xaiues  of  the  Troopers  which  sei'ved  under  my  com- 
mand to  
the  reliefe  of  Dunstable.  July  the  fourth,  seventeen  hundred  and 
six,  being-  twenty-nine  men,  two  days,  with  the  sustenance. 
'8  Vol.  II,  246. 
 - 162 - 
INDIAN    AND    MILITARY    HISTOEY.                      139 
"Thomas  Eoss. 
Thomas  Richardson. 
Andrew  Richardson. 
Jonathan  Richardson. 
John  Farmer. 
Ohver  Farmer. 
Thomas  Pollard. 
Sam"  Hill. 
Daniel  Hill. 
Ralph  Hill. 
John  Stearns. 
Sam"  Fitch. 
Mathew  AVhipple. 
Josiah  Bacon. 
Nathi'  Page. 
Nath"  Bacon. 
Henry  Jeflfs. 
Benjamin  Bacon. 
Sani>  Sadey(?). 
John  Hill.' 
Edward  Spaldin. 
Sam"  Chaml)erlin. 
Benoni  Periliam. 
John  Colborn. 
James  Dutton. 
Quar'.  Joseph  Foster. 
Corp  Sami  Hill. 
Josiah  Fasset.'* 
Another  list  follows  : — 
"Those  which  served  under  me  in  my  march  to  Groton  and  Dunstable 
and  Dracut,  from  the  11'^  August  to  the  13*,  by  Command  from  his  Exel- 
ency,  are  as  followeth  ;   and  served  3  days  and  found  their  own  sustenance. 
"Henry  Jefts.                                                            Corp'.  Thomas  Tarbell. 
Isaac  Stearns. 
Nath"  Hill. 
Thomas  Richardson. 
Thomas  Pollard. 
Jonath.  Richardson. 
Jonath.  Hill. 
Josiah  Fasset. 
Simon  Crosbe. 
Oliver  Farmer. 
Josiah  Bacon,  Trumpeter. 
Benjamin  Bacon. 
Danniel  Hill. 
Edward  Spaldin. 
Benoni  Periham. 
Sam"  Sadey(?). 
Sam^i  Barron. 
Henery  Spaldin. 
Samii  Cliamberlin." 
Of  the  names  on  this  roll,  Edwai'd  Spalding  and  those  which 
follow  probabl}'  belonged  to  Chelmsford,  and  Tarbell  was  of  Groton. 
Two  other  rolls  are  found  which  must  be  of  a  date  near  this  time, 
but  the  nature  of  the  service  is  not  mentioned,  except  that  one  roll  is 
headed:  "The  Names  of  the  men  that  went  the  rouns  with  INIager 
Lane."     Most  of  the  above  names  reappear,  and  these  in  addition  : 
Jonathan  Bacon. 
Joseph  Bacon. 
Nathaniel  Bacon. 
Hugh  Ditson. 
Thomas  Farmer. 
William  Grimbs. 
John  Hunt. 
Samuel  Hunt. 
John  Kittrege,  jr. 
Jobe  Lane. 
John  Lane. 
John  Xeedham,  Clerk. 
Kendall  Patten. 
Steven  Richardson. 
Isaac  Stearns. 
John  Stearns. 
Benjamin  AValker. 
Jacob  Walker. 
 - 163 - 
140  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
These  names  of  men  who  were  ready  to  meet  the  hardships  and 
dangers  of  this  Indian  warfare,  in  defence  of  their  imperilled  homes, 
are  as  worthy  of  honored  remembrance  from  a  grateful  posterity  as 
those  which  we  carefully  record  and  tenderl3''  cherish,  in  the  later 
wars  of  the  Revolution  and  the  Rebellion.  . 
In  the  unsuccessful  expedition  of  1707  against  Port  Royal  and 
that  which  had  a  better  issue,  in  1710,  we  may  assume  that  some  of 
the  sons  of  Billerica  had  a  part,  as  well  as  in  the  disastrous  invasion 
of  Canada  by  way  of  the  8t.  Lawrence,  in  1712.  But  the  only 
record  found  of  this  period  is  another  roll  among  the  Lane  Pitper.s, 
giving  the  names  of  twenty-six  men  all  found  above.  The  service 
is  thus  explained  : — 
"BiLiHACY.  September  18,  1708. 
"Reseved  of  Capt.  John  Lane  the  sum  of  eight  pounds,  three  shillings 
and  sixpence;   1  say.  reseved  by  me  foi'  the  solgers  that  bilar3'  [sent?]  unto 
Chelmsford  and  Groton. 
"James  Dutton." 
Another  ten  years'  peace  came,  in  1713,  with  the  treaty  of 
Utrecht,  and  was  most  welcome  to  the  wear}'  colonists.  But  the 
time  had  not  arrived  when  they  could  safely  remit  their  vigilance. 
In  1723  came  another  outbreak.  It  was  more  brief  than  the  earlier 
wars,  ending  in  two  3'ears  ;  but  it  is  stamped  more  deeply  in  the 
memory  and  imagination  of  later  times,  by  the  heroism  and  tragic 
incidents  of  the  Love  well  expedition. 
This  was  preceded,  in  1724,  by  an  attack  at  Dunstable,  which 
Penhallow,  in  his  Inrlhin  Wars^'^^  describes:  — 
••September  4th.  they  fell  on  Dunstable,  and  took  twO  in  the  evening; 
next  morning.  Lieut.  French  with  fourteen  men  went  in  quest  of  them  ; 
but  being  wav-l:iid.  both  he  and  one  half  of  his  company  were  destroyed. 
After  that,  as  many  more  of  a  fresh  company  engaged  them,  but  the  enemy 
being  much  superior  in  number  overpowered  thera,  with  the  loss  of  one 
man  and  four  wounded.'' 
A  muster-roll  is  preserved,^"  dated  1722,  July  to  November, 
which  gives  these  Billerica  names,  under  command  of  Sergeant 
Jonathan  Butterfield,  of  Dunstable  :  John  Farmer,  William  French, 
P^benezer  Frost,  John  Patten,  Joseph  and  Thomas  Pollard,  William 
8tickney,   and   John    Whiting.     They  were    probably   employed   in 
1"  Collections  of  The  New  Hampshire  Historical  Society.    Vol.  I,  p.  109. 
*"  Massachusetts  Archives.     Vol.  XC,  30. 
 - 164 - 
INDIAN    AND    MILITARY    HISTORY.  141 
scouting  and  guard  duty.  When  the  outbreak  came,  one  soldier 
from  Billerica,  and  no  doubt  others  with  him,  were  emplo3'ed  in 
more  distant  service.  Tliomas  Westbrook  writes  from  York,  1724, 
April  21,  that  "Lt.  John  Lane  has  been  so  imprudent  as  to  suffer 
his  men  to  kill  sundry  Creatures  belonging  to  the  people  of  the 
Count}'  of  York."  On  summons,  "he  did  not  deny  the  fact,  and 
made  satisfaction  to  the  people." 
A  few  months  later,  the  government  offered  a  bount}'  for  the 
scalps  of  Indians,  as  a  measure  of  defence.  Capt.  John  Lovewell, 
of  Dunstable,  at  once  raised  a  company  of  thirty  men  and  set  out 
on  an  expedition  into  the  wilderness  ;  struck  the  Indian  trail  about 
forty-four  miles  above  Winnipesaukee,  and  soon  returned  w^ith  one 
scalp  and  a  captive  boy,  for  which  they  received,  January  7,  £200. 
Again  he  set  out,  January  30,  with  a  larger  company-  of  eighty- 
eight  men,  came  up  with  the  Indians  by  the  pond  which  has  since 
borne  Lovewell's  name,  in  Wakefield,  New  Hampshire,  killed  the 
whole  party  of  ten,  and  returned  to  receive  a  bount3'  of  £1,000. 
The  third  and  more  memorable  expedition  set  out  with  forty- 
seven  men,  172.0,  April  lo.  Its  story  has  been  often  told  and  can 
not  be  repeated  here.  The  swift  march  into  the  wilderness,  the 
discovery  of  the  Indians  by  Lovewell's  Pond,  the  fierce  encounter, 
in  which  the  leader,  with  Chaplain  Frye  nnd  nearly  a  third  of  his 
com|)any,  lost  their  lives,  at  a  cost  to  the  savages  of  their  chief, 
Paugus,  and  so  many  of  his  men,  that  the  tribe  never  rallied  from 
the  blow  :  sermons  and  songs,  chapters  and  volumes,  have  been 
devoted  to  the  recital. 
Beyond  the  general  interest  of  the  Colony  in  this  brave  and  in 
fact  successful,  though  costly  and  sad,  enterprise,  Billerica  had 
special  connections  with  it.  Jonathan  Kittridge,  who  fell  with 
Lovewell,  was  from  this  town,  as  was  Solomon  Keyes,  one  of  the 
survivors.  Chaplain  Jonathan  Frj^e,  of  Andover,  who  died  of  his 
wounds,  and  is  commemorated  in  the  name  of  the  town  of  Fryeburg, 
Maine,  was  a  teacher  in  Billerica,  in  1724.  And  Lieutenant  Seth 
Wyman,  who  succeeded  to  the  command  when  Lovewell  was  killed, 
and  with  a«  much  skill  as  courage  continued  the  contest  and  brought 
off  the  survivors,  had  a  Billerica  wife,  Sarah  Ross,  and  was  of  that 
Wyman  family  which  lived  just  east  of  the  Woburn  line  and  was 
often  intimately  connected  with  l^illerica  history. 
This  vigorous  and  telling  encounter  gave  the  fathers  a  peace  of 
twenty  years.     Then  the  mazes  of  European  politics  involved  them 
 - 165 - 
142  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
again,  and  a  declaration  of  war  between  England  and  France,  in 
1744,  stirred  New  England  with  the  summons  to  arms.  During  the 
peace,  the  French  had  fortified  and  garrisoned  Louisburg.  It  was  a 
very  strong  fort,  and  in  hostile  hands  was  a  constant  and  serious 
menace  to  the  English  colonies.  Governor  Shirley  at  once  instituted 
a  correspondence  with  the  Government  and  the  other  colonies,  which 
resulted  in  an  expedition  under  Sir  William  Pepperell,  who  sailed 
from  Boston,  1745,  March  24.  His  entire  force  consisted  of  four 
thousand  troops  I'rom  the  various  colonies  ;  and  he  was  aided  by 
four  war  vessels,  mounting  one  hundred  and  eighty  guns.  The  siege 
was  prosecuted  with  singular  courage  and  skill,  and  resulted  in  the 
surrender  of  the  stronghold  on  the  sixteenth  of  June.  The  whole 
enterprise  was  well  conceived  and  bravely  executed,  and  reflected  the 
greatest  credit  upon  the  New  England  j'comanry,  whose  character  it 
illustrated.  "The  plan  for  the  reduction  of  a  regularly  constructed 
fortress,"  it  has  been  well  said,  "was  drawn  b}'  a  lawyer,  to  be 
executed  by  a  merchant,  at  the  head  of  a  body  of  husbandmen  and 
mechanics." 
Billeriea  was  well  represented  in  this  expedition.  Only  scattered 
and  imperfect  rolls  of  this  heroic  service  are  preserved  f^  but  glean- 
ing from  these  and  ignoring,  as  we  are  entitled  to  do,  the  lines  then 
recently  drawn  of  Tewksbury  and  Bedford,  we  may  record  these 
names,  most  of  which  certainl}'  and  all  probably  belong  to  the  old 
town  :  Captains  Josiah  Crosb}',  Peter  Hunt,  and  John  Stearns, 
Lieutenant  John  Lane,  Ensign  Samuel  Hunt,  Corporal  Solomon 
CrosV)y,  and  Privates  Nathaniel  Cumings,  Samuel  Farmer,  Samuel 
Galusha,  John  Hill,  Francis  Kidder,  Thomas  Richardson,  Jr.,  and 
David  Tarbell  ;  and  perhaps  William  Thompson,  as  the  difljereuce  in 
spelling  does  not  weigh  against  the  identity  of  this  soldier  with  our 
William  Tompson,  so  prominent  a  citizen  during  the  Revolution. 
Doubtless  other  names  should  be  added  to  this  roll  of  honor. 
Emboldened  bj'  this  splendid  achievement.  Governor  Shirley 
pushed  forward  plans  for  an  invasion  the  next  year  of  Canada. 
France,  on  the  other  hand,  alarmed  by  the  fall  of  Louisburg  for  the 
safety  of  her  American  possessions,  sent  a  powerful  fleet  under  the 
command  of  Duke  D'Anville.  The  design  was  supposed  to  be  the 
rectovery  of  Louisburg,  the  desolation  of  the  New  England  towns, 
and  perhaps  the  conquest  of  the  Colonies.     The  alarm  was  great 
=1  See  articles  by  Charles  Hudson,  in  The  New  England  Historical  and  Genealogical 
Register.    1870,  October,  and  1871,  July. 
 - 166 - 
INDIAN    AND    MILITARY    HISTORY.  143 
and  not  unreasonable,  and  the  troops  found  service  nearer  home 
than  Canada,  repairing  forts  and  awaiting  the  dreaded  attack. 
Praj'ers  went  up  from  the  churches  for  the  discomfiture  of  the 
enem}'.  And  when  the  glad  news  came  that  storms  and  dissensions 
had  utterly  disabled  the  mighty  armament  of  France,  the  relief  was 
widely  recognized  as  the  interposition  of  God  in  answer  to  pra^'er, 
and  jo3'ful  thanksgivings  were  offered  to  him. 
In  the  defensive  military  operations  on  the  Connecticut  River  of 
this  period,  soldiers  from  Billeriea  had  a  share,  and  in  one  disaster 
were  the  principal  sufferers.  Fort  Dummer,  in  Brattleborough,  was 
the  earliest  post  establ'ished  above  Northfleld,  in  1724,  and  twenty 
3-ears  later  a  fort  was  built  at  ''No.  4,"  which  was  the  origin  of 
Charlestown.  Around  these  posts  very  vigilant  and  useful  scouting 
and  some  bra\e  fighting  were  done,  under  the  command  of  Capt. 
Josiah  Willard  and  Capt.  Phineas  Stevens.  In  the  muster-roll  of  a 
company  which  served  under  Captain  Willard  from  February  10  to 
October  6,  1748,  at  Ashuelot,  now  Hinsdale,  New  Hampshire,  the 
following  Billeriea  names  are  found  :  Josiah  Crosby,  Jonathan 
French,  John  Frost,  Samuel  Hill,  Benjamin  Osgood,  and  Joseph 
Kichardson,  and  probably  Daniel  Farmer.  Whether  William  Hill 
and  Reuben  Walker  were  unrecorded  sons  of  the  town  is  not 
certain. 
On  June  16,  a  squad  of  fourteen  men  set  out  from  Ashuelot  for 
Fort  Diunmer  by  way  of  Colonel  Hinsdale's  fort.^-  The  party  was 
waylaid  opposite  the  mouth  of  Broad  Brook  by  a  large  company  of 
Indians.  The  surprise  was  complete  and  disastrous.  Three  men 
were  killed  and  scalped,  and,  by  a  singular  fatality,  they  were  all 
from  Billeriea,— Jonathan  French,  John  Frost,  and  Joseph  Richard- 
son. Seven  were  taken  prisoners,  of  whom  one  was  killed  at  the 
first  encampment,  William  Bickford,  and  his  body  buried  a  month 
later.  Four  escaped  across  the  river,  one  of  whom,  Daniel  Farmer, 
was  severely  wounded.  In  response  to  the  great  gun  from  Fort 
Dummer,  a  relief  party  went  up  the  next  day  from  Northfield. 
They  found  and  buried  our  Billeriea  dead,  scoured  the  country  and 
found  ''great  signs  of  the  enemy,"  showing  that  a  large  Indian  force 
had  been  in  ambush  around  the  forts  for  several  days. 
Of  the  captives,  Benjamin  Osgood,  of  Billeriea,  and  William 
Blandiard,  of  Dunstable,  reached  home  Oct.  15  ;   Henry  Stevens, 
22  See  History  of  Northfield,  by  Rev.  J.  H.  Temple,  p.  262. 
 - 167 - 
144  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
of  Chelmsford,  November  12,  and  Joel  Johnson,  of  Woburn,  earl}' 
in  October.  They  all  suffered  great  hardships,  were  imprisoned  till 
August  29,  and  Osgood  with  most  of  the  others  had  to  run  the 
gauntlet.  All  were  feeble  and  emaciated  on  their  return,  and 
Osgood  died  soon  after  from  the  effect  of  his  sufferings. 
Josiah  Crosb}'  was  one  of  the  four  who  escaped  ;  and  of  his 
experience  we  have  an  interesting  account  in  a  letter  from  John 
Farmer  to  Hon.  Nathan  Crosby. ^^  It  differs  somewhat  from  Mr. 
Temple's  narrative  outlined  above,  and  on  these  points  is  less  likely 
to  be  accurate. 
''In  1748,  he  was  a  soldier  on  Connecticut  river.  He,  with 
fifteen  more,  commanded  by  a  lieutenant,  was  ordered  from  Fort 
Dummer  to  Fort  Hinsdale,  about  four  miles,  and  when  they  were 
within  one  mile  of  Fort  Hinsdale  the}'  fell  into  an  ambush  of  one 
hundred  and  twenty  Indians  and  French,  who  rose  and  fired.  The 
commanding  officer  ordered  each  man  to  take  care  of  himself.  Two 
men  escaped  by  secreting  themselves  ;  one  reached  Fort  Hinsdale. 
Crosby  ran  up  the  river  towards  Fort  Dummer  followed  by  an 
Indian,  who,  coming  up  within  a  few  rods  of  him,  discharged  his 
piece  at  him.  The  ball  passed  near  his  right  ear;  he  then  turned 
and  fired  at  the  Indian,  who  fell,  and  he  saw  no  more  of  him.  He  '
pursued  his  wa}'  up  the  river  until  he  came  opposite  Fort  Dummer, 
where  he  attempted  to  swim  the  river,  but  before  he  could  reach  the 
opposite  shore  his  strength  failed  him,  and  he  sank  to  the  bottom 
and  was  taken  out  by  men  from  the  fort."  So  narrowly  escaped  the 
onl}'  one  of  the  five  sons  of  Billerica  known  to  have  been  in  that 
fatal  encounter.  Few  daj's  have  brought  as  deep  and  sudden  sorrow 
to  so  many  families  in  our  old  town  ;  none,  perhaps,  except  those 
of  the  Indian  massacres  in  1G92  and  1G95. 
All  these  tedious  conflicts  and  trials  of  the  colonists  were 
incidents  of  the  contest  between  England  and  France  for  supremacy 
in  America.  The  prize  was  a  brilliant^  one,  and  for  more  than  fifty 
years  it  had  been  carried  on  steadil}-  on  the  fields  alternately  of 
diplomacy  and  war.  It  reached  at  last  a  decision  through  a  contest 
more  general  and  severe  than  any  which  had  been  before  undertaken, 
extending  over  seven  3'ears,  from  1754  to  1761,  and  involving  large 
armies,  extensive  expeditions,  and  incidents  discreditable,  disheart- 
ening, and  glorious.     The  history  of  this  final  French  and  Indian 
23  A  Crosby  Family,  p.  11. 
 - 168 - 
INDIAN    AND    MILITARY    HISTORY.  X45 
War  has  never  been  adequatel}^  told,  and  justice  has  not  been  done 
to  many  of  its  actors  and  incidents.  The  later  war  of  the  Revolution 
has  thrown  this  in  a  measure  into  the  background,  and  Americans 
toda}'  scarcelj^  realize  its  proportions  or  significance.  Certainl}-,  if 
France  had  retained  power  in  the  North  and  West,  there  would  have 
been  no  room  for  the  later  developments  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  in 
America,  and  the  Revolution  with  all  its  fruits  would  have  been 
precluded.  And  the  cost  to  the  colonists  is  clearly  and  impressively 
brought  to  view  in  the  list  of  Billerica's  soldiers  engaged  in  it. 
The  overture  of  this  contest  in  1754  finds  Washington  marching 
to  a  disaster  in  the  west',  and  proposals  for  a  union  of  the  Colonies, 
which,  if  not  at  once  successful,  were  prophetic.  In  1755  Brad- 
dock  appears  on  the  scene,  dying  bravely  but  not  nobly,  while  the 
young  Virginia  surveyor  wins  distinction  from  disaster.  To  the 
eastward  an  expedition  of  six  thousand  men  takes  the  forts  of 
Acadia,  a  success  which  led  to  the  removal  of  the  French  neutral 
inhabitants,  who  refused  to  take  the  oath  of  allegiance,  from  then- 
homes,  and  their  dispersion  among  the  colonists.  This  war  measure, 
certainl}-  harsh,  perhaps  necessar}',  has  supplied  our  great  American 
poet  with  the  material  for  an  epic,  by  which  the  memory  of  it  will 
be  perpetuated  wherever  the  language  is  spoken.  In  the  north  the 
issue  of  the  campaign  was  less  decisive.  An  army  of  six  thousand 
troops  marched  from  Albau}'  for  Crown  Point.  Fort  Edward  was 
.built,  and  a  detachment  under  Colonel  Williams  was  defeated,  with 
the  death  of  its  leader,  whose  name  is  perpetuated  in  the  college,  the 
foundation  of  which  he  wisely  laid.  This  disaster  was  compensated 
by  the  repulse  soon  after  of  a  large  French  army  and  the  death  of  its 
commander,  the  brave  Dieskau.  Still  the  enemy  held  and  fortified 
Ticonderoga  ;  and  an  expedition  from  Oswego  against  Niagara  was 
belated  and  abandoned. 
In  175G  Montcalm  led  the  French  against  Oswego  and  held 
Ticonderoga  and  Crown  Point  successfully,  the  wishes  and  plans 
of  the  Colonies  for  their  capture  being  frustrated  b}*  the  incapacity 
and  irresolution  of  the  English  leaders.  Still  darker  seemed  the 
English  cause  in  1757,  when  the  army  for  the  second  reduction  of 
Louisburg  returned  unsuccessful  from  Halifax,  and  Fort  William 
Henr}-  was  sacrificed  by  a  cowardly  surrender  to  Montcalm.  This 
surrender  produced  great  excitement  and  alarm  in  New  England,  as 
it  opened  the  wa}"  for  an  invasion.  Companies  were  immediately 
organized   and  marched  to   the    rescue,  thirty  men    enlisting   from 
 - 169 - 
146  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
Billerica.  But  it  soon  became  clear  that  Montcalm  did  not  intend 
to  push  southward,  and  after  a  march  of  forty  or  fifty  miles  the 
troops  generally  returned  to  their  homes. 
A  change  came  in  1758,  when  the  hand  of  the  great  Earl  of 
Chatham  was  laid  upon  the  helm  in  England.  Louisburg  capitu- 
lated to  
General  Amherst,  with  an  army  of  fourteen  thousand,  and 
Forts  Frontenac  and  Du  Quesne  were  taken.  Abercrombie,  with  an 
arm}'  of  sixteen  thousand,  was  repulsed  in  his  expedition  to  Crown 
Point,  and  the  death  of  the  accomplished  General  Howe  added  to 
the  disaster.  Still  the  result  of  the  campaign  inspired  new  hope 
and  prepared  the  way  for  the  final  and  decisive  struggle  of  1759. 
To  this  end  the  war  was  carried  into  Africa,  i.  e.  Canada.  One 
column  w'as  to  descend  the  St.  Lawrence,  another  under  Amherst 
was  to  go  down  the  Champlain,  while  General  Wolfe  ascended  the 
great  river,  the  fortress  of  Quebec  being  the  central  point.  The 
campaign  proceeded  with  energ}'  and  decisive  success.  Pl'ideaux 
assailed  Fort  Niagara,  and  although  he  fell.  Colonel  Johnson,  his  .
successor,  soon  received  its  capitulation  and  held  control  of  the 
upper  St.  Lawrence.  General  Amherst  led  a  force  of  eleven  thou- 
sand men  towards  Lake  Champlain,  and  the  French  abandoned 
Ticonderoga  and  Crown  Point  without  a  contest.  But  he  failed  to 
advance  with  energy  and  lost  the  opportunity  to  share  and  aid  the 
attack  on  Quebec.  To  this,  Wolfe  came  direct  from  England, 
with  an  army  of  eight  thousand  men  and  nearly  fifty  vessels. 
He  arrived  June  26,  and  pushed  the  siege  with  skill  and  courage 
until  September  13,  when  he  succeeded  in  gaining  tlie  Heights  of 
Abraham,  above  the  cit}',  and  compelled  the  bewildered  Montcalm 
to  give  battle.  He  fell  victorious,  his  brave  antagonist  being  also 
raortall}'  wounded,  and  the  sceptre  of  France  passed  away,  Amherst 
receiving  tlie.  capitulation  of  Montreal  soon  after.  America  w^as 
to  be  English  and  not  French,  and  the  issue  of  that  day  was 
decisive. 
In  all  these  years  of  arduous  service  the  hardy  yeomanrj'  of 
New^  England  bore  their  full  share.  Not  for  the  first  time,  nor  the 
last,  the}'  gave  proof  how  successfidly  they  could  turn  from  farm 
and  shop  to  campaign  and  battle.  In  the  office  of  the  Secretary  of 
State  are  ten  huge  volumes,  filled  with  the  mss.  rolls  and  records 
of  the  military  service  of  this  period.  They  are  replete  with  the 
materials  for  histoiy,  and  any  careful  student  of  them  must  l)e 
surprised  at  the  extent  and  variety  of  the  ser\dce  of  these  yeomen. 
 - 170 - 
INDIAN    AND    MILITARY    HISTORY. 
147 
BilleriCca  did  her  part.  I  give  below  the  names  of  her  soldiers, 
as  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  glean  them  from  these  militar}'  rolls. 
The  list  is  necessarily  imjoerfect.  Of  course  I  have  been  able  to 
examine  but  a  small  part  of  the  whole  number,  being  guided  by  a 
general  index  in  selecting  such  rolls,  as  by  locality  or  names  of 
known  officers  were  likely  to  include  names  of  Billerica  men.  Some 
of  the  rolls  give  the  town  from  which  the  soldier  came,  but  many 
do  not,  and  the  explorer  is  left  in  such  cases  to  cull,  if  he  can, 
by  similarity  of  names  or  other  circumstances,  the  men  who  should 
be  credited  to  an}'  town.  In  this  process  some  names  will  be 
improperh'  included,  but  others  will  be  omitted.  In  this  list  the 
names  which  are  unusual  and  do  not  appear,  for  instance,  in  the 
family'  part  of  this  volume,  are  given  on  the  specific  authorit}^  of  the 
rolls.  Their  number  is  sufficient  to  prove  that  where  this  authority 
is  wanting,  some  will  of  course  be  missed.  I  do  not  doubt  that 
future  and  more  careful  inquiry  will  add  names  to  this  record. 
For  the  convenience  of  students  I  arrange  these  names  alpha- 
betically, and  indicate  by  an  appended  letter  and  explanation  in 
most,  but  not  all,  cases,  the  general  date  and  direction  of  the 
service.  For  the  same  reason  I  include  the  names  recorded  in  the 
earlier  war  of  1745-8.  The  whole  period  of  eighteen  years  includes 
thirteen  of  active  hostilit}'.  Billerica  could  hardly  have  contained 
at  the  time  more  than  one  thousand  inhabitants.  It  is  certaiulj^ 
creditable  to  the  coui'age  and  patriotism  of  her  citizens  that  during 
this  period  she  furnished  more  than  two  hundred  men  in  arms  to  the 
service  of  the  State. 
LIST  OF   SOLDIERS  IN   THE   PUBLIC   SERVICE,  1745-02. 
Angler.  Robert. 
Bacon.  Ebenezer,  /. 
Baldwin.  Abel. 
Baldwin.  Benjamin,  b.  c.  d. 
Baldwin,  David,  d. 
Baldwin,  John. 
Baldwin,  Thomas,  f. 
Beard,  Josiah,  d. 
Bedient,  John. 
Bennett,  James,  d. 
Black.  Bill,  b. 
Blanchard,  John. 
Blanchard.  Simon. 
Bonner.  William. 
Bootiiian,  Jonathan. 
Bosworth,  Joseph,  /. 
Bowanuan.  John.  d. 
Bowers.  William,  a. 
Boj'nton.  Richard,  b. 
Brittan,  Samuel. 
Brown,  David. 
Brown,  Josiah. 
Brown.  Samuel,  d. 
Brown.  William,  d. 
Buttei'fleld,  Joseph,  /. 
Butterfteld,  William,  d. 
Canada,  James,  d. 
Canada.  John.  (7. 
 - 171 - 
148                          HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
LIST  OF  SOLDIERS  IN  THE  PUBLIC   SF.RY1C^.  —  Continued. 
Chamberlain,  John.  d. 
Chamberlain,  Thomas,  d. 
Chamberlain,  William,  b. 
Chapman,  John,  c. 
Clai'k.  Timothy. 
Coburn,  James. 
Crosby,  Daniel,  e. 
Crosby.  David,  e. 
Crosby,  Ephi-aim. 
Crosby,  Francis,  b. 
Crosby,  Hezekiah,  d. 
Crosby,  Jacob,  /. 
Crosby,  Jesaniah. 
Crosby,  Jolin,  d. 
Crosby,  Joseph,  e. 
Crosby,  Capt.  Josiah. 
Crosb3%  Josiah,  c 
Crosby,  Simon,  b,  d. 
Crosby,  Solomon,  l. 
Crosby,  Thomas,  d. 
Crosby,  William,  c. 
Cumings,  Nathaniel,  /,  I. 
Danforth,  Elijah,  c,  d. 
Danforth,  John,  d. 
Danforth,  Jonathan,  a. 
Danforth,  Xiekles,  c. 
Danforth.  Samuel,  a. 
Danforth,  William,  c. 
Danly,  John.  c. 
Ditson,  Seth,  a. 
Dowse.  Eleazer,  b. 
Dowse,  Samuel,  b. 
Dunekle,  John,  d. 
Dunekle,  Nathaniel. 
Durrent,  Abraham,  «,  d. 
Durrent,  Henry,  a. 
Durrent,  Jonathan,  d. 
Durrent,  Thomas,  c. 
Dutton,  Timothy,  d. 
Farley,  Caleb,  a.  d. 
Farley,  Timothy,  d. 
Farmer,  Andrew. 
Farmei",  John. 
Farmer,  Jonas,  d. 
Farmer,  Oliver. 
Farmer,  IVter.  a. 
Farmer.  Samuel,  I. 
Farmer,  Thomas. 
Fassett,  Ens.  Josiah,  c. 
Fassett,  Samuel,  d. 
Fletcher,  John,  a. 
Foster,  Henry. 
French,  Ebenezer.  «,  d. 
French,  Jonathan,  e.* 
French,  Ens.  Thomas,  I. 
French,  William,  d. 
Frost,  Ebenezer. 
Frost.  John,  e.* 
Frost,  John.  a. 
Frost,  Samuel,  a. 
Fuller.  Thomas. 
Galusha,  Samuel.  I. 
Gardner,  Edward. 
Gleason,  William,  c. 
Godfrey,  Lieut.  Simon,  d.* 
Goodwin,  Thomas,  c. 
Gould,  Benjamin,  d. 
Gould,  Nathaniel. 
Gould,  Reuben,  c. 
Gould,  Sergt.  Simeon.  «,  d. 
Gould.  William,  d. 
Gould,  William.  Jr.,  d. 
Gray,  Joseph. 
Hall,  Isaac,  6,  c,  
d. 
Hall,  Jacob. 
Hall,  Tliomas,  a. 
Hall,  William,  d. 
Hanes,  Charles,  d. 
Hardy,  Ebenezer,  c. 
Harris,  Joseph,  b. 
Hastings,  Peter. 
Henry,  John,  d. 
Hill,  John,  /.  r. 
Hill,  Jonathan,  d. 
Hill,  Nathaniel,  p,. 
Hill,  Ralph,  b. 
Hill,  Samuel,  e. 
Hopkins,  Samuel,  a. 
Horsley,  James. 
Howard,  Samuel. 
Hunt,  Capt.  Peter,  I. 
Hunt.  Sanuiel,  e. 
 - 172 - 
INDIAN    AND    MILITARY    HISTORY                      149 
LIST  OF  SOLDIERS   IN  THE  PUBLIC  SERVICE.  —  Continued. 
Hunt.  WilJiam,  e. 
Jaquith,  Ebenezer,  a. 
Jeffs,  William. 
Jonson.  Josiali,  a,  c,  
d. 
Kemp,  Joseph,  d. 
Keys,  Abner,  c. 
Kidder,  Ens.  Benjamin,  d. 
Kidder,  Sergt.  Ephraim,  a. 
Kidder,  Solomon,  /. 
Lane,  Lt.  Johii,  I. 
Lane,  Thomas. 
Laws.  Thomas,  c,  
d. 
Levinston,  William,  e. 
Lewis,  Benjamin,  Jr.,  d. 
Lewis,  Ebenezer,  d. 
Lewis,  John,  d. 
McElvane,  Daniel. 
Mace,  Thomas,  c. 
Manning,  Abner,  a. 
Manning,  Benjamin,  a. 
Manning,  Lt.  William,  c. 
Merrill,  Nathan. 
Moore.  Jacob,  /. 
Needhara,  William. 
Newton,  Philip,  d. 
Nicholas,  James,  d. 
Nicljolas,  Robert,  d. 
Noyce,  Isaac,  d. 
Noyce,  Nicholas,  d. 
Osgood,  Benjamin,  e.* 
Parker,  John. 
Parker,  Nathaniel. 
Parry,  James.    Patten,  John. 
Pemberton,  James,  6,  
d. 
Perry,  James. 
Pollard,  Asa,  a,  d. 
Pollard,  Benjamin,  d. 
Pollard,  John,  e. 
Pollard,  Jonathan. 
Pollard,  Joseph,  d. 
Pollard,  Solomon. 
Pollard.  Thomas. 
Ranking,  Samuel. 
Richardson,  Joseph,  e.* 
Richardson,  Thomas,  Jr.,  I. 
Richardson.  William. 
Robeson.  John,  c. 
Rogers,  Thomas,  d. 
Sanders,  Amos,  c. 
Sanders,  Benjamin,  a. 
Shed,  Daniel. 
Shed,  Samuel,  c. 
Shed,  William,  /. 
Shed,  Zaccheus,  a. 
Silver,  Daniel. 
Spaulding,  Edward,  d. 
Stearns,  Charles. 
Stearns,  Lt.  Isaac,  a. 
Stearns,  Capt.  John.  I. 
Stearns,  John,  /. 
Stearns,  Oliver,  b. 
Stearns,  Thomas,  e. 
Stearns,  Timothy,  c. 
Stearns,  Zachary. 
Stevens.  Caleb. 
Stevens,  John. 
Stickney,  Sgt.  Abraham,  c,  
d. 
Stickney,  Benjamin,  d. 
Stickney,  David. 
Stickney,  Jonathan,  d. 
Stickney,  William. 
Tarble,  David,  c,  
I. 
Tarble,  Jolm. 
Tompson,  Ebenezer. 
Torapson,  William,  I. 
Totman,  John. 
Trull,  Samuel,  e. 
Walker,  Sergt.  Joseph,  c. 
Walker,  Joseph. 
Walker,  Reuben,  e. 
Walker,  Samuel. 
Walker,  W^illiam. 
Wesson,  William. 
Wliiting,  John,  c. 
Whiting,  Jonathan. 
Wliiting,  Thomas. 
Wilkins,  Isaac,  a. 
Wilson,  Jacob,  a,  d. 
Wilson,  Jonas. 
Wilson,  Leonard,  d. 
Wilson,  Reuben,  a. 
Wjanan,  John. 
 - 173 - 
150  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
The  letters  refer  to  the  following  various  services,  the  (*)  indi- 
cating death. 
(/.)    In  Lonisburg  expedition  under  Pepperell,  in  1745. 
(e.)  Service  near  the  Connecticut,  at  Northfield,  Fort  Dummer, 
and  "No.  4,"  in  1748. 
(/. )    "Expedition  to  the  Eastward,"  17o4. 
(a.)    In  the  army  operating  against  Crown  Point,  1755-6. 
(6.)  "Army  for  the  reduction  of  Canada,"  serving  in  the  same 
direction,  or  nearer  home,  1757. 
(c.)  "Relief  of  Ft.  William  Henry,"  1758.  The  capture  of  this 
fort  by  Montcalm  aAvakened  great  alarm  of  an  immediate  invasion, 
and  companies  were  hastily  organized  all  over  the  State  for  defence. 
The  Billerica  men  are  found  enrolled  in  two  companies.  One,  com- 
manded by  
David  Green,  had  Josiah  Fassett  as  ensign,  and  Joseph 
"Walker  sergeant  ;  included  seventeen  men  from  this  town  ;  and 
marched  "unto  y''  town  of  Marlborough,  being  about  25  miles." 
The  other,  with  Capt.  Thomas  Flint,  had  Lieut.  William  Manning 
and  Sergt.  Abraham  Stickney  ;  included  fourteen  from  Billerica,  and 
went  as  far  as  Shrewsburj^,  "  about  34  miles."  On  information  there 
received  they  returned  home  and  were  disbanded. 
(d.)  Service  towards  Crown  Point  and  Lake  Champlain,  1758-9. 
Here  Lieut.  Simon  Godfre}*,  from  Billerica,  was  killed  in  a  skirmish 
near  Fort  William  Henr}',  1758,  July  20,  a  few  daj's  after  the  death 
of  Lord  Howe.  Some  of  these  men  may  have  gone  down  Lake 
Champlain  with  General  Amherst  and  been  present  when  Montreal 
surrendered. 
Of  the  men  whose  service  is  not  designated,  a  large  number 
went,  in  1762,  on  an  expedition  be3'ond  "Albany  river,"  or  the 
Hudson,  the  object  I  am  not  able  to  give.^* 
The  forcible  removal  of  the  French  neutral  inhabitants  of  Acadia 
2*  The  following  references  to  The  Massachusetts  Archives  give  the  volumes  and  the 
numbers  of  the  rolls  from  which  the  above  list  has  been  gathered.  I  do  not  doubt  that 
more  extensive  and  careful  examination  than  I  have  been  able  to  make  will  discover  addi- 
tions and  corrections  for  this  interesting  record. 
Vol.  XCI,  66-7,  170. 
Vol.  XCII,  29,  79,  119,  26,  60,  82. 
Vol.  XCTII,  29,  .30,  35-6,  71,  1.3i,  6,  8,  181,  8. 
Vol.  XCIV,  59,  80,  105,  23,  85,  97,  .325,  48. 
Vol.  XCV,  83,  101,  75,  481,  2,  503. 
Vol.  XCVI,  46,  416,  54,  73,  5. 
Vol.  XCVII,  159-63,  75,  81-3,  207,  20,  364-5. 
Vol.  XCVIII,  93,  228,  55,  .302,  13. 
Vol.  XCIX,  .36.  112,  4,  22,  53,  208.  19,  .39,  45,  6.  56. 
i 
 - 174 - 
INDIAN    AND    MILITARY    HISTORY.  15  [ 
entailed  upon  Massachusetts  a  heavy  burden,  in  the  cave  of  these 
homeless  strangers.  They  were  distributed  to  the  various  towns, 
and  a  large  fjimily  came  to  Billerica.  Their  presence  appears  in  the 
treasurer's  accounts  for  1755.  He  is  charged  with  bills  exceding 
£11),  the  largest  of  which  was  for  sundries,  to  the  merchant  Nathan- 
iel Davidson.  Otlier  citizens  are  paid  for  board,  pork,  rye,  meal, 
meat,  beans,  and  medical  care.  In  1758,  Mr.  Davidson  agreed  to 
provide  for  the  family  one  year  for  £30,  and  the  selectmen  presented 
a  bill  to  the  State, ^  "for  providing  for  John  Kiiig,  his  wife,  and 
seven  small  children,  and  Ann  King  and  her  child,"  for  the  year 
preceding.  The  items  amounted  to  £25,  3s.,  lO^d.,  including  10s., 
id.  for  seven  months'  rent.  In  1759,  the  constable  is  ordered  to 
receive  from  the  State  treasurer  £30,  13s.,  2d.  for  the  same  purpose. 
In  November,  1759,  a  petition^"  from  the  selectmen  recites  some  of 
the  facts  and  prays  for  relief.  The  family  had  been  sent  to  Billerica 
in  Januar}",  1755.  King  had  then  six  children,  and  Ann  his  kins- 
woman had  a  child  born  soon  after.  She  afterwards  married  John 
Mitchel,  who  had  been  quartered  at  Londonderry,  but  seems  to  have 
joined  the  family  here,  where  a  child  was  born.  King's  eldest 
daughter  was  also  married  and  had  a  child,  and  there  were  fourteen 
in  the  family.  King  was  an  old  man  with  a  young  wife,  and  all 
were  in  a  pitiable  state  of  dependence.  The  selectmen  add  that  the 
wretched  house  they  had  occupied  could  not  be  rented  longer,  and, 
at  that  season,  the}'  could  not  build  a  new  one  suitable  for  so  large  a 
family.  Other  towns  had  been  burdened  less,  and  they  therefore 
pray  for  the  removal  of  the  family  or  for  other  relief. 
The  Court  granted  their  prayer,  and  directed  the  removal  of  the 
family  at  Billerica's  expense  to  Dunstable,  which  was  to  receive  and 
make  suitable  provision  for  them. 
25  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  XXIV,  80. 
2c  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  XXIV,  234. 
 - 175 - 
CHAPTER    IX. 
RELIGIOUS     HISTORY. 
The  New  England  town  was  not  a  finished  structure  until  it 
had  a  church  and  a  pastor.  Charters  and  grants  embodied  this 
condition,  and  were  forfeit  if  it  were  not  fulfilled  in  a  reasonable 
period.  The  Puritans  thought  "the  blessed  ordinances  of  God's 
word"  indispensable  to  any  community,  and  did  not  desire  to  be 
associated  with  or  responsible  for  the  existence  of  any  town  where 
these  wervi  not  enjoyed. 
In  the  petition  of  1654-5  for  the  tract  of  land  west  of  Concord 
River,  mention  is  made  of  "Eevn'^.  Mr.  Miller  and  those  that  come 
along  with  him,  who  were  so  ingaged  to  us,  your  petitioners,  that  we 
are  dayly  in  expectation  of  their  coming."  This  was  the  Rev.  John 
Miller,  who  had  been  ordained  in  England,  had  preached  some  time 
in  Rowley  as  assistant  of  Rev.  Ezekiel  Rogers,  the  pastor,  and 
then  been  for  some  years  pastor  of  the  church  in  Yarmouth.  The 
negotiation  to  enlist  him  in  the  settlement  of  Billerica  failed,  and 
he  remained  at  Yarmouth  until  1662.  He  then  went  to  Groton  with 
the  first  settlers  of  that  town,  received  a  grant  of  a  twenty- acre  lot, 
and  would  have  been  installed  the  first  pastor  in  Groton,  but  his 
sudden  death,  1663,  June  12,  prevented. 
The  first  pastor  of  Billerica  was  to  be  a  young  man,  who  might 
here  put  on  the  harness,  and  identif}-  his  name  and  influence  with 
the  histor}'  of  the  town.  Providence  held  in  reserve  the  man  for 
the  place  and  the  place  for  the  man. 
Three  years  pass,  during  which  the  number  of  families  increased 
from  ten  to  twenty-five,  and  the  name  of  Whiting  appears. 
'•^16^  6m.,  165S.  At  a  Towns  meeting.  By  vs,  the  inhabitance  of 
Billirica,  these  severall  propositions  were  discuste  and  agreed  vpon  by  vs, 
(whose  Xaraes  are  hereunto  subscribed,)  which  are  hereafter  expressed: 
 - 176 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORY.  1513 
••1.  Wee  do  agree  to  give  Mr.  Samuel  Whiting,  Junr..  (our  minister,) 
that  house  which  is  now  vpon  7"=  towneship,  comfortably  finished,  for  him, 
and  his  heirs,  if  he  continues  amongst  us  during  his  life.  But  if  he  shall 
remove  from  amongst  us,  then  the  said  house  with  all  the  acomodations  of 
the  same  shall  returne  againe  to  the  towne.  to  be  at  their  dispose  ;  or,  if 
Mr.  Whiting  shall  dye  with  vs.  then  the  towne  shall  have  the  refuseing  of 
the  said  house  and  all  other  acomodations  aforesaid  belonging  to  the  same, 
if  Mrs.  Whiting  do  sell  y^  same. 
'•■2.  We  do  promise  to  give  to  him  y"  sume  of  fourty  pounds  per  year.^ 
for  his  maintenance,  for  the  first  two  years  of  his  setling  with  vs,  and  for 
the  third  year  fifty  pounds,  and  for  the  fourth  year  sixty  pounds,  and  for 
afterwards  we  do  promise  and  ingage  to  better  his  maintenance  as  tlie  Lord 
shall  better  our  estates. 
••3.  We  do  Joyntly  pmise  to  cary  at  o'  owne  charge,  from  year  to 
year,  so  much  of  the  pay  (as  doth  amounte  to  twenty  pounds)  as  shall  be 
brought  in  to  him  in  wheat  or  in  otlier  graine,  or  porke ;  to  deliver  the  same 
either  at  Mistick  mill  or  at  Charlestowne,  which  Mr.  Whiting  shall  apointe, 
and  to  deliver  the  same  at  such  prizes  as  such  pay  shall  or  doth  at  such 
times  pass  fro  man  to  man,  vnless  Mr.  Whiting  and  the  Towne  shall  make 
any  other  agreement  concerning  the  same. 
"4.  We  do  promise  to  pvide  his  firewood  &  to  bring  it  home  to  his 
house,  from  year  to  year,  at  our  owne  cliarges. 
"5.  We  do  promise  to  fence  him  in  a  paster  for  to  keape  his  horse  in, 
as  convenient  as  we  may. 
^'ult.  for  his  acomodations,  we  do  promise  to  lay  to  y*'  said  house,  a 
ten-acre  lot,  for  his  house-lot,  and  twelve  acres  of  meadow,  with  other 
acomodations  convenient  to  the  same,  1.  e.  to  grant  to  him  all  other  divi- 
tions  of  lands  and  meadows,  with  other  lots  of  y^  like  quantity. 
■••The  persons  subscribing  to  the  premises,  who  were  then  the  inhabi- 
tance,  were  : 
•'Ralph  Hill,  Sen'.         Johx  Parker. 
Will™,  ffrexch.  James  Parker. 
John  Rogers,  Sen^       Will™.  Tay. 
George  parley.  Will™.  Chamberline. 
Will™.  Pattin.  John  Trull. 
Sam".  Chamne.  James  Paterson. 
John  Sternes.  John  Marshall. 
JONATH.  DaNFORTH.         JOHN   ShILDON. 
Ralph  Hill,  Ju"".  Henery  Jeiffs. 
John  Baldwin." 
*'  Also,  at  a  Towne  Meeting  of  y^  iuhabitance,  ye  16,  10™.,  lOGl. 
"It  is  agreed.  That  whatever  charges  Mr.  AVhiting  shall  be  at,  in 
makeing  his  house  and  land  more  convenient  for  his  comfortable  susistence 
and  livelyhood  amongst  vs,  in  erecting  anj'  more  building,  fenceing,  or 
breakeing  of  laud,  or  clearing  of  meadows,  and  the  like  ;  That  in  case  the 
providence  of  god  so- orders  it  that  afterwards  he  shall  remove  from  us, 
and  so  (by  our  former  agreement)  leave  all  his  acommodations  to  the  use 
 - 177 - 
154  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
of  the  Towne,  the  towne  do  proniise  that  what  the  whole  premises  shall  be 
the  better,  at  his  leaving  it.  bj^  reason  of  liis  cost  and  charges  upon  it.  It 
shall  at  that  time  be  returned  to  him  by  the  towne.  as  it  sliall  be  adjudged 
by  men  indifferently  chosen." 
It  speaks  well  for  the  courage  and  faith  of  these  founders  of  the 
town  that,  numbering  only  nineteen  men,  thej'  were  ready  to  put 
their  hands  to  such  an  instrument  and  assume  all  its  responsilnlit}'. 
It  speaks  well  for  the  young  Harvard  graduate,  of  good  birth  and 
sterling  ability,  that  he  was  ready  to  identifj-  himself  with  the  rising 
town  and  make  liis  home  in  this  wilderness,  when  not  even  the  little 
meeting-house  of  logs  and  thatch  was  yet  erected. 
Where  Mr.  Whiting  preached  for  the  first  two  years,  we  can  only 
conjecture  ;  perhaps  at  John  Parker's,  where  earl}-  town  meetings 
were  held  ;    perhaps  in  his  own  house. 
A  year  later,  the  following  vote  appears:  — 
"It  Is  agreed,  bj^  the  major  prt  of  the  Towne,  that  Mr.  Whiting  shall 
liave  50  p.  for  this  year,  for  his  maintenance,  and  caring  down  corne,  and 
making  a  well  and  hovell  for  his  catell  ;  which  is  10  p.  more  than  o""  agree- 
ment for  his  yerely  maintenance  ;  the  caring  his  corne  or  other  pay  do^vTie 
to  towne  and  getting  his  firewood  included,  to  be  done  at  Mr.  Whiting's 
own  charges." 
In  the  accounts  of  the  town,  credit  is  given  to  John  Baldwin, 
George  Farley,  and  Ralph  Hill,  Jr.,  for  "oxen  to  help  fetch  Mr. 
Whiting";  and  to  Ralph  Hill,  Sr.,  Samuel  Kemp,  John  Marshall, 
James  Paterson,  and  John  Rogers,  "for  John  for  going  for  Mr. 
Whiting."  It  was  no  small  undertaking  to  help  the  minister  remove 
to  Billerica,  at  that  day. 
When  the  earliest  families  had  been  five  and  six  3-ears  .in  town, 
when  their  number  had  increased  to  thirt}'  and  the}'  had  secured  a 
minister,  thej-  were  at  length  prepared  to  grapple  with  the  serious 
problem  of  a  house  of  worship. 
'•09.  9.  59.  it  is  Agreed  by  the  major  prt  of  the  Towne,  that  there 
shall  be  a  meeting  house  built  this  winter  foiling ;  tliirty  f oote  Longe  and. 
twenty  and  f oure  foot  wide,  and  twelve  foot  high ;  the  studs  to  be  3  foot 
asunder,  the  Comittee  apoyuted  to  agree  with  workmen,  to  bild  and  finish 
the  said  house,  are  Ralph  Hill,  Sen^.,  George  Farley,  Jonathan  Danforth  ; 
it  is  agreed,  also,  that  the  sides  and  ends  shall  be  covered  with  bords  and 
the  Roof  with  thatch.'' 
This  primitive  meeting-house  stood  south  of  the  centre  of  the 
present  common,  having  its  length  east  and  west.     Probably  the 
i 
 - 178 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORY.  155 
inhabitants  contributed  labor  and  lumber  liberally  to  its  erection,  but 
John  Parker  was  the  principal  builder,  as  appears  from  the  following  : 
''le.  10.  61.  The  town  doe  apoynte  Will™  Tay,  AVill'"  Hamblet,  & 
Jonathan  Dauforth,  as  a  Comitee  to  examine  the  acontes  about  y^  bildinge 
and  finishing  the  meeting  house,  and  to  consider  some  way  to  propose  to 
the  towne  for  satisfying  John  Parker  for  his  disbursements,  what  they  in 
their  judgment  shall  se  meet,  and  in  their  best  understanding  shall  eonseive 
ritasly  due  to  him  for  the  work  done/' 
"6 :  
11 :  
61.  the  comitee  abovesaide  did  meet  together  with  the  Towns- 
men, and  examined  the  aconts,  and  they  make  this  return  foUowinge  :  to 
the  Towne,  we  doe  finde  that  acordinge  to  his  aconts  (which  we  judg  to  be 
Just  and  equall)  there  is  due  unto  him  The  Just  surae  of  eighteene  pounds, 
fifteen  shillings,  three  pence,  we  say,  18 :  
15 :  
3,  and  in  consideration  of  the 
nature  of  the  pay  disbursed  by  him,  exceedinge  the  quality  of  the  pay 
received  by  him  from  the  Towne,  we  Aprehend  that  the  Towne  may  do 
well  to  make  up  the  former  sume  full  Twenty  poundes. 
•'this  was  excepted  and  granted  by  the  Towne." 
How  Mr.  Parker  was  paid  has  already  appeared,  in  the  account 
of  the  use  made  b}-  the  town  of  the  land-grant  of  four  thousand 
acres,  received  from  the  General  Court,  in  Ma}-,  1661.      {_See  p.  47.] 
No  record  remains  of  the  completion  or  dedication  of  this  house  ; 
but  we  may  be  sure  that  the  devout  fathers  of  Billerica  did  not  fail  to 
consecrate  it  to  the  service  of  God,  with  due  solemnity  and  rejoicing. 
A  humble  structure,  it  was  in  harmony  with  its  surroundings  ;  and 
worship  fervent  and  true  went  up  to  God  from  its  lowly  walls. 
Provision  was  made  soon  after  for  the  usual  appendage  of  a  New 
England  meeting-house. 
"25,  7.  1660.  The  towne  doe  give  leave  that  Ealph  Hill,  Sen'"..  George 
Farley,  Will™.  French.  Ealph  Hill,  Jun^.,  and  John  Parker,  and  such  other 
persons  as  make  use  of  their  horses  to  Ride  to  y^  meetinge,  shall  have 
liberty  to  make  sum  housing  or  housings  to  sett  up  for  horses  from  time  to 
time,  without  molestatione  ;  and  to  sett  up  y"  saide  houseing  below  the  Hill 
between  the  meeting  house  and  Goldinge  More's  barn,  or  in  sum  other 
place  conv«enient  for  them." 
More's  barn  was  on  Paul  Hill's  land,  perhaps  as  far  south  as 
Deacon  Lund's  place  ;  and  the  sheds  were  probably  near,  or  just 
south  of,  Mr.  Hill's  house. 
In  1661  the  town  '^appoint  Lieut,  ffrench,  John  Parker,  Ralph 
Hill,  Sen.,  and  Will.  Tay,  to  sett  in  the  Deacon's  seat;  and  also 
the  town  do  appoint  &  impower  these  four  men,  joyned  with  Mr. 
Whitinge,  to  appoint  the  rest  of  the  inhabitants  and  proprietors 
belonging  to  the  town,  there  severall  places  where  they  shall  sitt  in 
 - 179 - 
156  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
the  meeting  house,  acordhige  to  their  best  discretion.  *  *  Also, 
it  is  agreed,  if  any  person  or  persons  be  agrieved  in  their  being- 
seated,  and  they  doe  make  known  their  grievance  to  the  persons 
above  said  ;  they  are  to  consider  of  their  grievance,  and  acte  as 
they  in  their  discretion  shall  see  meete,  in  seating  them  elsewhere," 
No  church  was  yet  organized,  and  the  citizens  of  Billerica  sought 
occasional  church  privileges  with  neighboring  churches.  The  Rev. 
John  Fiske,  pastor  of  Clielmsford,^  mentions  such  courtes}'  to  Ralph 
Hill  and  George  Farley,  and  the  case  of  Jonathan  Danforth  is  given 
at  length.  The  latter  is  too  interesting  an  account  of  the  way  the 
fathers  felt  and  acted  on  such  questions  to  be  abbreviated. 
"  Jonathan  |  He.  about  7  of  12,  '56,  proposing  himself e  to  this  ch. 
Danford.  j  j.^^.  fyUy^ygjiip.  jf  ^^s  concluded  to  answer  him  as 
follows:  Jonathan  Danford.  his  desire  being  proposed  to  this  ch.,  ['? 7  of 
12],  to  joyne  himself  in  fellowship  w*  vs,  it  was  considered  of,  and 
agitated,  and  in  fine  determined  by  joynte  assent  to  returne  him  tins 
answer,  in  effect  as  folloM^eth:     Namely, 
"That  in  case  y^  ch  at  Cambridge  shall  graunt  him  a  permission  so  to 
doe,  yeelding  vp  wliat  right  thej^  have  in  him  vnto  this  ch,  and  we  shall 
receive  satisfactione  touching  his  being  meetely  qualified  for  y^  enjoj^m'  of 
all  church  Priviledges,  we  shall  v.illingly  attend  his  desire  to  y''  receiving 
of  him:  otherwise  we  know  no  Kule  of  orderly  proceeding  with  him,  in 
this  way ;  he  being  by  vertue  of  his  father's  covenant  vnder  the  immediate 
inspection  and  charge  (as  we  conceive)  of  y''  ch.  of  Cambridge. 
•"Afterward,  y" Elders  of  Cambr.  Ch.,  writing  to  vs  as  from  themselves 
their  apprehensions  as  to  this  effect,  they  conceived  we  might,  notwith- 
.stauding,  receive  y  said  Jonathan  without  offence  to  that  ch." 
"  vpun  22  of  l-^t-j  5G-57.  It  was  returned  thus:  Jonathan  Damford, 
his  desire  being  vpon  this  day  a  2">  time  proposed  to  this  ch,  with  L''^  from 
ye  Elders  of  Cambr.  Ch.  The  result  of  our  ch.  agitation  amounted,  in 
effect,  to  this,  viz:  that  we,  supposing  he  may  be  fitt  to  enjoy  all  ch. 
priviledges,  can  not  otherwise  but  sympathise  w'''  him ;  and  therefore,  as 
ye  case  to  vs  appears  at  present,  we  are  not  apprehensive  we  are  orderly 
called  as  yet  to  satisfy  his  desire,  for  our  parts,  conceiving  he  belongetli  to 
them  whose  w'e  think  he  is,  either  plainely  to  disowne  him  or  to  dismisse 
him  ;  and,  in  case  neither  of  these  inaybee,  we  know  no  rule  or  reason 
why  he  may  not  firstly  joyne  himself  in  personall  covenant  with  that  ch, 
and  afterward,  as  just  cause  is  offered,  to  be  either  reconnnended  or  dis- 
missed, or  
both,  vnto  vs.  Or  else,  if  by  reason  of  his  distance  fi'om  that 
ch,  this  be  refused,  whereas  yet  thei-e  are,  as  we  suppose,  members  of  y'' 
1  AfSS.  Record,  now  in  possession  of  Mr.  David  Pulsifur,  at  the  State  House.  For 
permission  to  make  extracts  from  tliis  Record,  I  am  indebted  to  the  courtesy  of  Rev.  H.  M. 
J^exter,  D.  D.,  wlio  has  a  copy  of  the  obscure  origiual,  which  was  made  for  liim  by  Mr. 
Pulsifer. 
 - 180 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORY.  157 
said  ch  residing  nigher  to  him  than  any  of  ours,  he  seems  called,  for  his 
owne  parte,  to  sit  still  a  while  &  wayte  till  God  more  fully  shew  vp  his 
way." 
Almost  three  years  pass,  and  the  case  is  reopened. 
''In  7,  59,  ll™o,  Jonathan  Dafford  brings  L^^  from  ye  ch  of  C'ambr.. 
wherein  they  resign  vp  all  their  right  in  him  vnto  vs  to  proceed  with  him. 
•'After  some  long  agitation,  at  3  several  times,  and  divers  qu.  in  poj^nt 
of  order  proposed,  y"  case  at  length  came  to  be  stated,  and  ye  case,  as 
touching  order  vpon  several  grounds,  concluded;  and  thereupon  ye  whole 
ch.  agreed  to  send  a  l^  to  y"^  Brethren  at  Billerica,  to  take  off  occasion  of 
offence,  and  to  cleere  mor.e  fully  our  way,  as  foUoweth  : 
Ye  Lr  to      1 
Billerica.      [ 
To  or  Beloved  Brethren,  &c.  at  Billerica,  &c.  : 
Bel.  Bii.  Whereas, 
"Jo:  Danf  :  an  Inhabitant  amongst  you.  hath,  for  some  time  since, 
proposed  himself  as  desirous  to  joyne  w'^  vs  in  ch.  fellowship,  and  hath 
obteyned  Liberty  from  y«  ch  at  Cambridge  so  to  doe.  as  by  JJ^  to  vs  from 
that  ch  is  manifest  to  vs.  And  whereas  we  have  been  in  some  doubt  about 
it  since  that  time,  as  being  hopefullj^  persuaded  that  ye  longing  desires  of 
their  soules,  after  ye  enjojang  of  ye  Ordinances  of  X.  amongst  yourselves, 
would  have  set  them  vpon  y''  worke  of  Gathering  a  ch  and  ordeyning  an 
Officer  in  y^  place;  and  that  ye  experience  and  observation  of  ye  said 
Jonathan  would  have  led  you  to  have  encouraged  him  in  his  desire  after 
ye  Ordin  :  in  taking  him  amongst  you  in  ye  s''  worke  and  vnto  the  same  : 
or  otlierwise,  in  case  of  personal  exception  ag^'  him,  as  regularly  unmeete 
for  fellowship,  to  have  cleered  yo'selves  in  the  matter.  But  perceiving 
that  neither  this  nor  that  is  attended  by  you,  so  as  we.  for  o^  partes, 
are  readj^  to  apprehend,  had  we  been  in  yo^  case,  it  had  concerned  vs; 
Therefore,  we  have  thought  fitt  to  write  vnto  you,  to  desire  you  would 
speedily  and  with  the  first  opertvmity  ^nforme  vs  of  these  two  things  : 
First,  whether  indeed  you  bee,  or  doe  intend  soone  to  bee,  in  hand  w"i  y® 
s^i  worke  of  gathering  a  ch.  and  within  what  space  of  time  tliere  is  an 
intendment  or  likeljhoode  of  accomplishing  the  same?  and  whether  j^ou. 
doe  intend  to  accept  of  ye  s<5  Jonathan  amongst  you  vnto  the  worke?  and, 
if  not  this  or  not  that,  then,  if  we  maybe  so  far  in  yo''  favor,  we  should 
look  at  it  as  an  act  of  Brotherly  Love,  to  be  enformed  from  you,  of  the 
grounds  w'^^',  if  we  may  apprehend  Just,  you  shall  have  vs  (thro'  y^  grace 
of  Christ)  in  a  readiness  to  strengthen  yo"^  hands  in  what  maj'  concern  vs. 
If  otherwise,  we  shall  desire  to  act  o""  owne  apprehensions  as  in  what  we 
shall  conceive  o^  duty,  and  in  particular  in  reference  to  s*!  Jonathan,  with- 
out just  cause  of  offense  to  you,  in  case  you  doe  not  lay  before  us  grounds 
of  conviction  to  the  contrary.  How  meete  we  ma}^  find  liim  for  Fellowship, 
we  can  not  yet  determine.  To  rob  you  of  him,  in  case  meete,  far  be  it 
from  vs.  To  receive  hiin,  you  regularly  judging  liim  unmeet,  and  so  to 
retayne  him  to  vs,  when  once  you  have  a  ch  amongst  you,  be  it  as  far  from 
vs  as  ye  other.     Testimony  from  amongst  you.  we  doe  (in  part  at  least) 
 - 181 - 
158  HISTORY   OF   BILLERICA. 
expect;  and  on  y^  other  side,  as  you  will  approve  yo'selves  faithful  to 
Jesus  X.,  and  to  the  soule  of  y^  s<^  Jonathan,  we  doe  looke  you  should,  and 
hope  you  will,  orderly  remove  matters  of  just  offence,  if  any  there  be,  or 
I  
seasonably  and  regularly  enforme  us. 
"Seriously  we  doe  desire  you  would  not  slight  (as  we  dare  not  con- 
clude you  will)  this,  o^'  Addresse  vnto  you,  by  a  silent  Answer,  or  by 
retarding  a  returne  to  vs  from  you,  but  that  you  would  let  us,  within  a 
short  time,  heare  from  you.  and  for  the  interim  we  commend  you  to  y'= 
Guidance  of  y  good  Spirit  of  God  and  rest,  Yo''*  &c. 
''Chelmsfoud,  29  of  11,  '59." 
"■12  of  2,  '61.  Also  about  Jon:  Daford:  when  voted  that  we  should 
proceed  to  tryal  witli  him,  in  order  to  his  joining.  A  Testimony  vnder 
Mr.  Whiting's.  W'".  French.  Jam  :  Parker's  hand  being  Eedd."  A  month 
later.  "12  of  ;J,  '(51.  On  this  day  Jonath.  Daftbrd  joyned  in  covenant  with 
this  ch.  promising  to  attend  y"  IJule  &  order  of  y**  Gospel,  as  touching 
joyning  tlie  ch  at  Billerlca,  if  once  gathered,  or  else  to  remove  his  station 
to  this  or  sonje  other  Towne  where  a  church  shall  bee."  Mr.  Danforth 
kept  his  promise  and  took  letters  of  dismission  to  the  church  in  Billerica. 
"1.5:11:65." 
The  formation  of  a  church  was  felt  b}'  the  fathers  of  New  Eng- 
land to  
be  serious  business,  not  to  be  lightly  or  hastily  undertaken  : 
and  the  importance  of  membership  was  viewed  in  the  same  light. 
We  can  not  read  this  record  between  the  lines  without  suspecting 
some  difference  of  opinion  among  these  Billerica  men,  and  that  the 
dela}-  of  the  church  organization  is  partially  explained  by  that  fact. 
To  the  valuable  record  of  the  Chelmsford  pastor  we  are  indebted  for 
fuller  light  on  this  subject.  The  church  in  Billerica  was  organized, 
1(563,  November  11  ;  but  the  accounts  of  the  town  treasurer^  inti- 
mate the  pi'esence  of  a  council  here  in  the  April  previous.  Of  this 
hitherto  mysterious  council,  its  object  and  result,  IMr.  Fiske  fortu- 
_  
nately  gives  us  the  full  ^tor3'.  His  record  brings  out  the  fact  that 
Billerica  was  agitated  by  the  question,  so  serioush'  disturbing  the 
churches  of  the  day,  respecting  the  relation  of  baptized  children  to 
the  church,  and  whether  they  could  acquire,  b}'  infant  baptism  alone, 
the  rights  of  citizenship  in  the  State. 
The  Chelmsford  record  is  as  follows  : — 
"  Billerica's  case. 
"On  12  of  2'^  63,  Ave  received  let^  fro  M''  Whiting  &  ye  Breth"  for  ye 
Pastor  &  Bi-ethren  to  joj^ne  with  y*"  other  messengers  of  X^  in  counsell  to 
be  given  y"'  about  y''^  proceeding  to  X'^  state.  Bro.  Burge  being  chosen 
with  ye  pasf.  Attendance  was  accordingly  thr  given  on  27'ii  of  2^,  as 
appoynted,  whr  met  us  the  messengers  of  ye  X  of  Ooburne  :   but  Cambr 
2  See  ante,  p.  TO. 
 - 182 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORY.  150 
&  Watertowne  messengers  ea  not,  being  as  seemd  by  L>'s  Hindred  by  Prvd. 
The  messengers  of  y^  2  s''  X^  befoi-esfi.  being  p^sent,  were  desired  by  y« 
Breth  of  Billericay,  notwithstanding,  to  hr  y«  case  &  if  possibl.y  to  help 
yn ;  Accordingly,  it  was  Attended  upon  tlie  desire.  &  on  the  2d  daj%  being 
the  sitting  day.  Mr.  Whiting  &  the  rest,  on  both  apprelieusions.  met.  But 
we  could  not  co  to  state  y"^  qu  between  them  till  the  Afternoon.  So  after  we 
had  made  many  assaies  with  them  togethr  &  ap^te.  At  length  finding: 
1.  That  yf  was  a  willingness  &  desire  on  both  p^tes,  to  joyne  together 
in  ye  worke  of  gathering  a  X  &  carrying  on  of  y^  ordin  :  amongst  them, 
notwithstanding  y^  ditterance  of  y''  Appi'hensions  aboute  Children's  state  in 
y'' X  concerning  y^  [?]  2.  That  ye  dissenting  brethren  to  Mr.  AVhiting's 
p'te  had  declared  thereof  : 
'•1.    That  y  childr  of  parents  in  full  colon  were  to  be  Baptized. 
"2.  yes  children,  being  baptized,  are  vnder  the  care  of  ye  Church,  w<='' 
is  to  see  to  y^  pious  [nurture?]  in  ye  heart  &  feare  of  God,  &  to  be  cate- 
chized. &c.  Onely  so'  of  y'"  would  not  have  y™  vnder  ye  pow''  of  ye  X  to 
be  censured,  tho  so'  of  y'"  yielded  it  y'  [?]  now  members,  &  might  be  *ex- 
co'icated  if  desei'ving.  only  )'«  could  not  convej'  any  right  of  membersh  to 
y''  Childr.  nor  could  thr  childr  be  i-eputed  meuibrs,  vnless  y'^'  Imediate  piits 
were  in  full  colon  vpon  this  account.  The  following  question  being  drawne 
vp  &  p  posed,  was  consented  to,  on  all  hands,  to  be  The  Question." 
"The  Copy  of  ye  qu:  &  Answer  given  by  ye  Counsel  to  the  Billericay 
Brethren  is  as  follows  :        28  of  2'',  03,  Billei'icy. 
"Qu.  Suppose  an  equall  number  of  persons  differing  in  thr  opinions 
aboute  childrens  intereste  in  the  Church  (both  Infants  &,  Adult)  &  both 
willing  to  practice  their  Opinion:  How  may  such  psons  Joyne  together 
according  to  a  Rule  &  live  together  in  church  state  according  to  a  Eule? 
"A.     We  conceive  as  followeth  : 
"  1.  That  the  two  dissenting  parties  doe  each  of  them  choose  equality 
(su])pose  fower).  each  of  y'"  of  y"^  owne  App'hensions,  to  be  the  matter  of 
ye  foundation.  2.  That  these  all  mutually  &  joyntly  doe  take  &  give 
satisfaction,  each  to  other,  touching  there  meetnes  vnto  this  greafee  worke. 
as  in  all  other  Respt^.  3.  That  if  there  app  any  just  cause  of  laying  by  any 
one  of  these  vpon  the  fores^^i  account,  that  then  One  othr  pson  be  chosen, 
according  to  ye  first  fposal,  in  his  Roome  :  4.  That  each  trouble  not  the 
Other  as  to  the  nuitter  of  there  appf'hension  aboute  the  question  betweene 
them,  othrwise  than  by  a  Meeke,  Brotherly  &  modest  reasoning  out  the 
case  of  difterence  by  the  Word  of  God.  as  occasion  is  offered,  for  the  mutual 
help  one  of  another.  5.  That  the  matter  of  difterence  as  to  the  case  of 
children  simply  beco  no  barr  or  lett  to  anj%  othrwise  fitt  to  be  received 
in,  or  added  to  them. 
"Postscr.  And  we  doe  hope,  thro  the  Lord's  help,  that  if  you  can 
thus  joyne  in  all  Brotherly  love  &  goe  on  together  in  the  due  exercise  of 
the  same  Love,  forbearance  &  Tenderness:  you  may  longe  continew  to- 
gether with  the  Lord's  blessed  p'sence  in  the  I'nidst  of  you,  cleering  up  his 
will  &  way  more  fully  to  you  in  his  owne  season  :  wh'^'i  we  shall  pray  for 
on  yo''  Behalves. 
••Subscribed:  Jo:  ffiske. 
Tho  :  Carter. 
Edw.  Johnson. 
Jo".   BURGK." 
The  men  who  were  interested  Iq  and  moved  bj-  such  questions 
as  these  had  mental  powers  of  no  mean  order.  It  is  not  eas}'  for 
us  fully  to  understand  their  position,  but  it  does  uot  become  us  to 
underestimate  them  or  smile  at  their  difficulties.  They  were  dealing 
at  first  hand  with  fundamental  problems  of  church  and  state,  and 
 - 183 - 
160  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
they  had  not  the  light  of  two  hundred  and  fifty  years'  experience 
to  guide  them.  This  possible  church,  outlined  by  the  April  council, 
smacks  suspiciously  of  Presbj^terian  eldership  and  authorit}'.  It  can 
hardl}'  be  the  same  as  the  foundation  which  was  actually'  laid  six 
months  later.     Again  the  Chelmsford  record  aids  us  : — 
•^1  of  9,  03,  Billerica. 
■'Messengers  fro  y*  eh.  attended  y^  eh.  gathering  at  Billericay  where 
they  all  made  a  Relatio  of  y^  worke  of  grace  &  consented  in  a  written  pro- 
fession of  
faith  ;  &  Mr.  Whiting  ordayned  pastor.    y«  daj'^  comfortable. 
The  assembling  of  this  council  and  its  proceedings  must  have 
formed  a  notable  day  in  the  lives  of  the  fathers.  It  will  help  us 
revive  the  memory  of  the  scene,  if  we  recall  the  names  of  those  who 
were  likely  to  have  composed  it. 
Roxburv  was  represented  certainly-  1\y  its  junior  pastor,  Samuel 
Danforth.  He  was  the  colleague  of  John  Eliot,  the  devout  and 
active  Indian  missionary,  whose  marvellous  translation  of  the  Bible 
into  the  language  of  the  Indians  was  printed  that  ver}-  year.  His 
labors  among  the  natives  at  Wamesit  must  often  have  led  him 
through  Billerica,  and  it  is  pleasant  to  think  that  he  also  was  prob- 
abh'  present.  Lynn  must  have  sent  her  pastor,  Samuel  Whiting, 
Sen.,  the  father  of  our  candidate.  And  the  mother  church  at  Cam- 
bridge would  not  fail  to  share  with  her  pastor,  Jonathan  IMitchel,  in 
the  joys  of  the  day.  Chelmsford,  which  had  received  as  settlers  a 
church  already  organized,  with  its  pastor,  John  Fiske,  gave  gladly 
the  hand  of  fellowship  to  a  nearer  sister.  Concord,  Woburn,  and 
Andover  would  complete  the  circle  of  neighboring  churches,  and 
their  pastors  were  Peter  Bulklc}',  the  cousin  of  Mr.  Whiting's  mother, 
Thomas  Carter,  and  Francis  Dane.  The  first  minister  of  Boston, 
John  Wilson,  ma}'  have  been  present  with  his  church;  and  Thomas 
Shepard,  who  had  been  Mr.  Whiting's  classmate  at  Harvard  College, 
as  pastor  of  Charlestown.  Maiden,  Reading,  and  Watcrtown  would 
make  up  twelve  churches,  and  their  pastors  were  Michael  Wiggles- 
worth,  the  poet,  John  Brock,  the  devout,  and  John  Sherman,  the 
eminent  mathematician. 
Whether  all  these  were  present  or  not,  it  was  a  grave  and  rev- 
erend council  which  convened  here  on  that  November  da}'.  Our  old 
town  perhaps  never  had  a  more  notable  assembly.  The  candidate 
was  most  carefully  examined  in  his  doctrine  and  experience.  He 
would  have  occasion  to  exercise  all  the  logical  skill  acquired  in  his 
 - 184 - 
RELIGIOUS   HISTORT.  161 
Harvard  training  and  displa^-ed  in  his  graduating  thesis,  on  the 
question,  ''An  detur  Maximuui  et  Minimum  in  Natura."  There 
was  at  least  one  sermon,  and  the  organization  of  tlie  chnreh  at  the 
same  time  ma^'  Iiave  required  anotlier  ;  and,  if  the  custom  of  a  hiter 
day  then  obtained,  the  candidate  preached  his  own  ordaining  sermon. 
The  possible  duration  of  these  public  services  is  suggested  in  the 
Woburn  experience.  There,  when  the  church  was  organized,  Mr. 
Symmes  introduced  the  services  and  ''continued  in  pra^'er  and 
preaching  about  the  space  of  four  or  five  hours."  What  would 
follow  such  an  introduction  wc  may  imagine  !  Whatever  the  order 
or  length  of  the  services,  that  litde  thatched  m?eting-honse  was  well 
filled  In-  a  congregation  too  much  interested,  as  well  as  too  devout, 
to  betray  weariness  or  to  thank  their  descendants  for  sympathy. 
It  is  due  to  this  first  and  eminent  pastor  of  Billerica  that  we 
glance  at  the  home  and  influences  which  had  aided  in  moukUng  his 
character.  The}'  will  help  us  to  understand  better,  not  onl}'  this 
man  himself,  but  others  of  his  charge,  fathers  of  the  town.  Rev. 
Samuel  Whiting,  of  Lynn,  was  the  father  of  our  Samuel.  Like 
John  Cotton,  of  Boston,  he  gave  the  name  of  the  English  towh  in 
which  he  was  first  pastor  to  his  New  England  home.  His  father, 
John  Whiting,  and  two  of  his  brothers  were  mayors  of  the  English 
Boston,  and  warm  friends  of  their  pastor,  John  Cotton,  in  whose 
Puritan  convictions  the}'  shared.  Samuel  Whiting  was  born,  1597, 
November  20,  and  took  the  degrees  of  A.  B.  and  A.  M.  at  Emanuel 
College,  Cambridge,  1G16  and  1620.  Receiving  orders,  he  was 
three  years  a  famil}-  chaplain,  and  then  installed  at  Lynn  R-'gis,  in 
Norfolk.  Here,  after  three  years,  his  earnestness  and  iijdependence 
made  him  obnoxious  to  the  Bishop  of  Norwich,  and  charges  of  non- 
conformity were  made  against  him.  But  tlie  d.'ath  of  King  James 
relieved  him,  and  ""the  Bishop  v.-as  willing  to  promise  his  friend  the 
Earl  of  Lincoln,  who  interceded  for  him,  that  he  would  no  furth.^r 
worry  him,  in  case  he  would  begone  out  of  his  diocese  where  he 
could  not  reach  him."  He  therefore  removed  to  Skii'beck,  near 
Boston  his  old  home.  Here  he  labored  for  some  years,  not  less 
faithful  to  his  non-conformist  pi'inciples  on  account  of  persecution, 
until  the  pressure  of  the  times  under  Charles  drove  him  forth,  as  it 
did  Cotton,  Hooker,  and  so  man}*  of  the  noblest  and  best  men  and 
women  of  England,  in  search  of  peace  and  "freedom  to  worship 
God,"  in  America. 
While  living  at  Skirbeck  Mr.  Whiting  married,  1629,  August  6, 
 - 185 - 
162  HISTOKY    OF   EILLERICA. 
his  second  wife,  Elizabeth  St.  John,  and  here  our  Samuel,  her  eldest 
child,  was  born,  1G33,  March  25.  His  mother  was  of  a  family  still 
older  and  more  notable.  She  was  the  daughter  of  the  Riglit  Hon. 
Oliver  St.  John,  a  member  of  Parliament.  Her  brother  Oliver 
married  a  cousin  of  Oliver  Cromwell,  and  was  one  of  the  first 
law3-ers  and  most  progressive  men  of  Ei^gland.  He  defended  John 
Hampden  in  the  great  case  in  which  he  resisted  the  King,  on  the 
question  of  the  payment  of  ship  money,  and  made  that  name  immortal 
among  the  defenders  of  liberty.  Later  he  became,  under  Cromwell, 
the  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  England. 
His  sister,  Mrs.  Whiting,  added  grace  to  her  name  by  tlie  beauty 
of  her  person  and  the  worth  of  her  character.  Her  noble  and  gentle 
blood  proved  its  true  quality,  by  the  faithfulness  with  which  she 
performed  .  
the  dnt^'  and  bore  the  hardships  of  her  'position  as  the 
wife  of  the  humble  country  minister.  Her  rank  and  w^ealth  did  not 
bind  any  fetters  around  the  freedom  of  their  religious  convictions  ; 
and  when  the  Puritan  minister  would  leave  all  that  must  have  made 
England  dear,  she  w^as  read}'  to  face  the  hardships  and  perils  of  the 
wilderness  with  him  and  prove  herself  his  true  helpmeet.  Coming 
of  such  a  stock,  from  such  a  home,  with  the  best  training  which  the 
times  had  to  give,  the  3'oung  pastor  of  Billerica  was  qualified  to 
magnify  his  office  and  make  his  mark  upon  the  rising  town. 
No  records  of  the  church  are  in  existence  until  the  ■  
settlement  of 
the  third  pastor,  in  1747,  and  on  what  basis  of  doctrine  or  covenant 
it  was  organized  we  know  not.  A  renewal  of  covenant  took  place 
at  that  time,  and  it  is  sufficiently  probable  that  the  covenant  then 
used,  and  found  in  the  first  book  of  the  church's  records  which  has 
been  preserved,  was  identical  with  that  wdiicli  was  adopted  by  the 
fathers.     It  is  as  follows  : — 
"The  Covenant  of  the  Church  of  Christ  in  Billerica. 
''  We,  the  Church  of  Christ  hi  Billerica,  hoping  it  will  have  a  tendency 
the  better  to  preserve  peace  and  Order  among  us,  and  cause  us  to  be  more 
circumspect  in  our  walk  and  conversation,  renewedly  to  covenant  with  God 
and  one  another,  thereby  binding  ourselves  by  an  act  of  our  own  to  walk 
in  tlie  way  of  God's  comniandnienta,  being  sensible  of  our  proneness  to 
backslide;  Tho  we  are  unworthy  of  such  a  transaction,  yijt  IJenouuciug 
all  confidence  in  our  Selves  and  llelying  on  Christ  alone  for  help,  do  cove- 
nant as  
follows,  viz  : 
'•We  believe  the  Scriptures  of  the  Old  and  Xew  'J'estament  to  be  given 
by  Inspiration  of  God,  and  promise  by  the  Help  of  the  Divine  Spirit  to 
govern  om-  Selves,  both  as  to  faith  and  practice,  according  to  that  perfect 
 - 186 - 
KELIGIOUS   HISTORY.  163 
Rule;  and  we  also  engage  to  walk  together  as  a  Ch  of  Christ  according  to 
all  those  holy  Rules  of  the  Gospel  respecting  a  particular  Church  of  Christ, 
so  far  as  God  hath  or  shall  I'eveal  to  us  his  mind  in  tliat  respect. 
"AV'e  do  accordingl}^  Recognize  the  Covenant  of  Grace,  in  wliich  we 
acknowledge  our  Selves  professedly  devoted  to  the  fear  and  service  of  God, 
Our  Supreme  Lord,  and  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  High  Priest,  Prophet, 
and  King  of  his  Church,  unto  ^yhose  Conduct  we  submit  ourselves,  on  whom 
alone  we  wait  and  hoi)e  for  Grace  and  glory,  to  whom  we  bind  ourselves  in 
an  Everlasting  Covenant  never  to  be  broken. 
*"  
We  likewise  give  our  Selves  up  one  to  another  as  fellow  membei's  of 
one  Body  in  brotherly  Love  and  holy  "Watchfulness  over  one  another,  for 
mutual  Editication.  and  to  Subject  our  Selves  to  all  the  Hol}^  administrations 
appointed  by  him  who  is  the  Head  of  his  Church,  dispensed  according  to 
the  Rules  of  the  Gospell.  and  to  give  our  constant  attendance  on  all  the 
Publick  Ordinances  of  Christ's  Institution  ;  Walking  orderly  as  becometh 
Saints. 
'•We  do  likewise  acknowledge  our  Posterity  to  be  included  with  us  in 
the  Gospel  Covenant,  and,  Blessing  God  for  so  Rich  a  favour,  do  promise 
to  bring  them  up  in  the  Xurture  and  admonition  of  the  Lord,  with  the 
greatest  care  ;  and  to  ac^cnowledge  them  in  their  Covenant  Relation  accord- 
ing to  tlie  Rules  of  the  Gospel. 
'"Furthermore,  we  promise  to  be  careful  to  our  utmost  to  keep  vip  all 
the  Ordinances  of  the  Gospel  among  us.  and  to  admit  to  our  Counnunion 
all  Such  as  shall  desire  to  Join  themselves  to  us.  If  in  a  Judgment  of 
Charity  we  can  be  satisfied  they  ai-e  qualified  therefor.  And  to  walk  in 
all  Regular  and  due  Communion  with  other  Churches  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 
"And  now.  since  we  have  thus  bound  ourselves  in  Covenant  to  God 
.ind  to  one  another,  may  the  good  Lord  pity  us  and  pardon  our  frailties; 
Humble  us  out  of  all  confidence  in  our  Selves;  and  may  the  grace  of 
Christ,  which  is  sufiieient  for  us,  be  aftbrded  unto  us;  and  he  who  is 
the  great  Shepherd  of  our  souls  Lead  us  into  the  paths  of  Truth  and 
Righteousness  for  his  Xame's  sake,  and  at  the  last  Receive  us  all  into  his 
heavenlj'  Kingdom.     Amen. 
"BiLLEKiCA,  August  14,  1747." 
"■The  Church  met,  havhig  been  Regularly  notified  &  warned,  &  unani- 
mously voted  and  testified  their  consent  to  the  aforewritten  Covenant,  and 
then-  Resolution  to  adhere  to  and  govern  themselves  bj'  it. 
"'Test.  Sa.muei.l  Ruggles,  Pasior."' 
The  last  clause  suggests  the  influence  of  the  question  which  early 
agitated  the  churches,  as  to  the  terms  of  comnuinion  and  church 
membership.  At  the  beginning,  in  New  England,  only  members  of 
the  church  could  vote  or  hold  office.  This  fact  did  not  result  from 
the  bigotrj'  of  the  fathers.  It  would  be  as  reasonal)le  to  reproach 
them  for  not  having  invented  the  steam-engine  or  discovered  the 
circulation  of  the  blood.     Church  membership  was  everywhere  the 
 - 187 - 
164  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
rule  of  civil  pri^ilogos.  The  very  occasion  of  their  trouble  was, 
the  extension,  before  unknown,  which  they  were  giving  to  those 
privileges  and  the  right  of  suffrage  as  a  factor  of  their  new  Common- 
wealth. In  
England  the  practice  was  to  baptize  all  children  in 
infanc}",  and  regard  all  as  church  members  who  had  not  been 
excommunicated.  Persons  appointed  to  office,  civil  or  militar}', 
must  "qualify"  by  receiving  the  communion  in  the  church,  and  many 
received  it  for  this  purpose  and  neglected  it  for  every  other.  The 
fathers  had  been  educated  in  this  school  and  had  no  experience  in 
an}-  differing  ftom  it.  It  was  to  them  a  large  and  doubtful  assumption 
that  civil  privileges  in  the  Christian  State  they  were  rearing  could  be 
safelj'  extended  to  non-communicants.  But  their  spiritual  enlighten- 
ment convinced  them  that  to  sprinkle  an  infant  with  water  did  not 
make  him  a  child  of  God,  and  they  could  not  recognize  tlio  disciple- 
ship  of  those  who  gave,  in  mature  3'ears,  no  "credible  evidence  of 
regeneration."  They  were  thus  brought  into  practical  difficulty.  A 
generation  of  baptized  children  were  coming  to  maturity,  many  of 
whom  had  not  united  with  the  churches  and  were  by  that  fact 
excluded  from  rights  and  duties  in  which  their  activity  was  important 
to  the  common  welfare.  Moreover,  the  children  of  these  non-com- 
municants were  growing  up  withont  baptism,  which,  in  the  mother 
country,  the}'  would  have  received.  What  was  to  be  done?  The 
debates  grew  earnest  and  serious,  and  the  result  was  the  calling  of  a 
synod  by  the  General  Court,  consisting  of  the  elders  and  messengers 
from  all  the  churches.  This  was  held  in  1GG2,  and  Samuel  "Whiting, 
the  father,  was  a  moderator  of  the  body  and  had  much  influence  in 
shaping  its  result.  What  is  known  as  the  Half- Way  Covenant  was 
the  fruit  of  these  deliberations.  Some  of  the  ablest  divines  in  the 
synod  opposed,  but  the  majority  decided  :  "a"".  Church  members, 
who  were  admitted  in  minority,  understanding  the  doctrine  of  faith 
and  publicly  professing  their  assent  thereto  ;  not  scandalous  in  life 
and  solemnly  owning  the  covenant  before  the  church  wherein  they 
give  up  themselves  and  their  children  to  the  Lord  and  subject  them- 
selves to  
the  government  of  Christ  in  the  church,  their  children  are 
to  be  baptized." 
On  this  compromise  the  practice  of  the  church  in  Billerica  rested. 
In  fifty  years  of  Dr.  Cumings's  ministry  he  admitted  one  hundred  and 
ninety-nine  persons  to  the  Half-Way  Covenant  and  three  hundred 
and  seven  to  full  communion.  The  practice  fell  into  neglect  ;  there 
is  no  record  of  its  formal  discontinuance. 
 - 188 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORY.                                  165 
From   the   Town   Records   we   glean   items   illustrative    of    the 
religious  life  of  the  church  and  its  relations  with  its  pastor. 
The  first  sexton  was  William  Haile. 
'•12:  12:  02.  by  order  &  advise  of  y  Townsmen,  I  did  agree  [John 
Parker  Avas  clerk  and  first  'townsman,'  or  selectman,  and  speaks  in  the 
first  person]  witli  Will'  Haill  to  Iveep  y^  meeting-house  clean  for  1  year  for 
2!)s.  Also  he  doth  ingadge  to  digg  y*^  graves  for  sueli  persons  as  shall  dye 
in  tliis  Town,  he  being  paj-d  for  y^  same  18  pr  a  grave,  or  more,  if  it  doe 
apere  to  ))e  worth  more,  as  the  Xater  of  the  digging  shall  require  or  the 
season  of  the  year  shall  fall  out.  to  hinder  him  in  the  work  by  frost  or  the 
like,  then  the  said  Will'  is  to  have  a  hand  to  help  him  if  Xeed  require." 
This  service  he  continued  to  discharge  until  1668,  in  which  j-ear 
he  died.     John  Trull  succeeded  him. 
A  list  of  curious  interest  is 
The  Rate  for  Mr.  Whiting's  m 
Ralph  Hill  03  :  12 : 
Nathaniel  Hill  03:  17; 
Captin  Gookin's  farme  03  :  02  : 
John  ff'rench  01 :  11  ; 
George  fi"arley  03  :  02 ; 
Will'^  French  01:  11; 
AVilliam  Chamberlin  01 :  00 ; 
Heuery  Jefts  01:  11: 
Eldr  Richard  Champncy  03  :  17  ; 
John  Stern  03  :  02  : 
Daniell  Shead  01  :  04  : 
Benjamin  Parker  01 :  11  : 
Thomas  Pattin  01:  Oi: 
Jacob  Brown  01  :  04: 
John  Stern 
James  Patterson  00 :  18  :  OS 
John  Rogers.  Sen"-  01 :  04 :  10 
James  Kidder  01  :  11 :  00 
Jonathan  Dauforth  01 :  11  :  00 
Golden  More  & 
Joseph  ttreneh  01  :  11  :  00 
Golden  lO^,  Joseph  1 :  
01 
John  Poulter  01 :  04 :  10 
John  Baldwin     .  01  :  04 :  10 
John  Marshall     '  •   00:  18:  08 
John  Trull  00:  18:  08 
John  Sheldon  01 :  11 :  00 
Willo  Tay  01 :  11 :  00 
••7:  9:  64.  the  Townsmen  did 
shall  be  paj-d  him  acordinge  to  y 
vere  64." 
lintenance  for  y^  yo.av  63. 
Willo  Ilamlett 
John  Parker 
Samuel  Champneys 
ff"rancies  Wyman 
Jolm  AVynian 
Samuel  Kemp 
Simon  Crosbey 
Simon  Bird 
Will"  Haill 
Thomas  Foster 
Christopher  Webb 
Joseph  Tomjison 
Peeter  Brackett 
Captin  Brackett 
Simon  (Jrosby  for 
Kinslej'Vs  lot 
AViddow  Hubart 
John  Durant 
John  Kittrige 
John  Brackett 
Thomas  Willice 
Roger  Toothacre 
Samuell  Trull 
Ja.  fir o St 
Sume  is 
01 
03 
11:  00 
17:  06 
03:  02:  00 
01:  11:  00 
01 :  11  :  00 
00:  15:  06 
01:  04:  10 
01:  11:  00 
00:  07:  09 
01 :  04  :  10 
00:  18:  08 
00:  15:  06 
00:  15:  06 
01 :  11  :  00 
00:  IS:  08 
00:  07:  09 
00:  15:  06 
00:  15:  06 
00:  07:  09 
00:  03:  00 
00:  03:  00 
00:  15:  06 
71:  01:  8 
71:  9:  0 
agree  that  Mr.  Whiting's  maintenance 
'  several  sums  above  specified  for  ye 
 - 189 - 
166  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
The  following  are  added  in  the  handwriting  of  the  succeeding 
clerk,  WilU am  Tay  : — 
Roger  Toothaker  00  -  Of)  -  02 
Jhon  Rogers  00-14-02 
Sa.  Trull  00  -  09  -  07 
Jos.  flrench  00-09-10 
(?)  00-10-05 
2-12-01 
71-09-  0 
74-01-  4 
The  last  name  is  ohf.curc  ;  it  ma}'  be  Ranalls,  but  is  not  found 
elsewhere.  These  pa^'ments  of  the  minister's  rates  were  often, 
perhaps  commonl}',  made  directly  to  the  minister  and  his  receipt 
taken  ;  a  practice  which  might  easily  produce  some  confusion  in 
the  accounts  of  the  town  with  him.  When  persons  fell  into  arrears, 
in  "clearing  with  Mr.  Whiting,"  the  case  would  be  reported  to  the 
selectmen,  as  thus  appears  : — 
'''19.  Om  66.  The  selectmen  do  order  and  inipower  the  constable  to 
collect  of  several!  y^  inhabitauee  &  proprietors  amongst  us  those  severall 
suuies  of  money,  due  to  Mr.  ^yhiting.  our  minister,  according  to  a  bill 
given  in  to  the  selectmen  under  ]N[r.  AA'hiting's  hand,  for  his  yearly  mainte- 
nance ;  
and  in  case  any  person  shall  neglect  or  refuse  to  pay  in  y""  same, 
aeording  to  order  to  Mr.  Whiting,  then  the  constable  shall  distraine  such 
persons  for  their  areers,  aeording  to  law." 
'•^29  :  11  m  67.  In  town  meeting  it  was  agreed  that  for  the  futer  Mr. 
Whiting  shall  have  all  his  corne  paid  in  to  him  at  such  prises  as  the  court 
shall  set  for  y«  country  rate  annually.  Also  it  was  farther  declared  that 
the  towne  had  formerly  agreed  to  give  Mr.  Whiting  one  pound  of  butter 
upon  every  milch  cow.  annually,  in  part  of  pay." 
1670.  '"It  is  agreed  that  y-  minister's  rate  should  annually  be  comitted 
to  the  constable's  care,  as  y^  other  town  rates  are." 
In  1G71-,  the  town  voted:  — 
'•That  in  case  y«  constables  be  forced  to  distraine  any  pson  or  psons 
for  their  dues  to  Mr.  Whiting."  *  *  they  "shall  not  ttdce  any  lands  or 
horse  flesh,  or  anything  that  is  not  equivalent  to  wheat  or  other  graine  or 
porke  at  the  countr}^  rate  prise,  both  for  the  supply  of  jMr.  Whiting's 
family  and  for  the  market,-  which  is  the  specia  mentioned  in  the  towne 
covenant  with  Mr.  Whiting  *  *  to  be  delivered  at  ^Ir.  Whiting's  house 
at  their  charge  w^io  are  distrained. 
"Also.  Job  Laine's  proposition  to  abate  him,  auually.  part  of  his  dues 
to  Mr.  Whiting  was  projjounded  to  the  town,  but  not  accepted." 
 - 190 - 
RELIGIOUS   HISTORY.  1G7 
The  matter  of  arrears  in  salar}*  occurs  in  the  Records  every  three 
or  four  years,  the  constables  I'eceiving  charge  to  see  that  delinquents 
"cleared  with  Mr.  Whiting."  In  168"),  a  list  is  given  of  forty 
persons  whose  arrears  amount  to  £32,  18.s\,  10c/. 
At  the  town  meeting,  l()92-3,  March  6  : — 
"The  Kevereud  Mr.  Whiting  propounded  that  the  one  part  of  the 
Covenant  on  the  toAvn's  part  with  him  had  not  in  his  api'ehencion  been 
fulfilled,  the  town  haveing  engadged  above  the  seventj'  pound  per  annum 
for  to  -better  our  pastour's  maintenance  as  god  should  better  our  estates,' 
which  had  not  yet  bene  done  by  any  town  act  :  for  altho  tliere  had  fre- 
quently^ bene  over  plus  in  the  Rates,  it  had  bene  disposed  of  by  the  Towne 
for  the  payment  of  what  afiually  could  not  be  gotten;  y'^  Eevereud  Mr. 
AVliitiug  at  the  same  time  declared  his  readiness  to  comply  with  anything 
which  was  Kationall,  and  the  town  at  the  same  time  manifesting  their 
thankful  acknowledgement  unto  Mr.  Whiting  that  had  so  far  accepted 
what  this  pore  place  had  been  capable  of  dohig  for  him,"  etc.  *  *  "The 
town  do  agre  to  make  good  the  severall  Rates  that  have  bene  comitted  unto 
the  Reverend  Mr.  Samuell  Whiting,  in  the  severall  sums  as  they  have  bene 
comitted  unto  him,  ever  since  the  beginning  of  eightj^  four,  &  to  see  that 
they  are  paid  in  unto  Mr.  Whiting  upon  the  account  of  making  good  the 
other  part  of  the  covenant  above  or  besides  the  seaventy  pounds  ;  &  for 
the  future  we  do  engadge  to  alow  Mr.  AVhiting  his  firewood,  auually,  above 
his  seventy'  pound,  in  the  same  specie  as  before. 
■•the  above  said  voat  sent  unto  the  Reverend  Mr.  Whiting  by  two  of 
the  inhabitance,  to  propound  unto  his  consideration.  &  was  Readilj''  aoepted 
unto  the  great  satisfaction  of  the  inhabitance." 
In  1698,  December,  the  arrears  due  Mr.  Whiting  were  found 
to  amount  to  £64,  15s.,  4cZ.,  almost  a  year's  salary.  The  pastor 
desired  that  if  anj*  one  claimed  to  have  paid  ivhat  had  not  been 
credited  to  him,  it  should  be  allowed;  The  constables  and  selectmen 
were  enjoined  at  length  to  secure  the  paj-ments  due  ;  and,  in  case 
of  their  failure,  the  town  promised  "to  satisfie  rationally  the  person 
or  persons  that  shall  bring  this  discharge"  from  Mr.  Whiting. 
Four  years  previously,  when  the  second  meeting-house  was  built, 
Mr.  Whiting  had  made  an  offer  to  the  town  "either  to  give  fivetene 
pound  to  the  Town  in  desprat  delfts,  such  as  he  should  point  out 
unto  them,  or  ten  pound  in  the  undertaker's  [builder's]  hand,  or  six 
pound  in  sillver  toward  the  purchasing  of  a  bell";  in  return  for 
which  he' was  to  have  "a  seat  for  his  famil}'  for  his  propriety."  The 
town  accepted  the  first  offer,  and  in  1698  voted  to  "grant  unto  the 
Reverend  Mr.  Samuel  Whiting  that  pue  that  his  famih'  now  sits  in, 
so  long  as  he  contiuues  our  minister.     *     *     And  in  ease  an  after 
 - 191 - 
1G8  HISTORY    OF    BILI.ERICA. 
ministei*  shoukl  request  that  puo,  rather  than  another,  then  the  town 
do  cngadge  to  build  another  of  the  same  demencion  and  workman- 
ship, and  to  confirm  it  unto  Mr.  Whiting  as  his  propriety  forever."  * 
Whereni)on  Mr.  AVhitiug  ''did  discount  fivetene  pound  of  the  debts 
given  in  to  tlie  Town  this  dnv." 
•  
With  tlic  growtli  of  the  town  the  primitive  meeting-house  Ijecame 
too  small,  and,  in  1G79-80,  it  was  shingled  and  a  gallery  put  in. 
Samuel  Frost  covenanted  to  build  the  galler}-  for  '20  shillings  in 
silver,  and  G  pounds,  10  shillings  "-in  this  present  town  rate."  He 
was  to  erect  it 
'■upon  the  beainos;  *  *  to  make  one  seat  in  front.  &  to  floor  it  on 
the  backside  to  the  rooffe  of  the  house;  &  set  a  bench  behind  it,  such  an 
one  as  that  place  will  admit  of.  And  two  seats  on  ea(;h  side,  upon  the 
beames,  the  foremost  of  each  seat  to  come  down  as  low  as  the  undor  side 
of  the  beames,  that  Is.  the  under  side  of  the  Joyce  to  be  even  with  the 
chamfering  of  -the  beames,  &  so  all  three  fore  seats  to  be  even  at  y«  bottom. 
The  seats  of  the  fore  side  seats  shall  be  over  the  beames,  and  but  a  little 
above  them.  The  hindmost  side  seats  shall  be  behind  and  above  the 
beames.  each  seat  to  be  comely  closed  with  rails  and  booi'ds.  as  is  usiall  in 
such  work,  the  fore  seat  with  ballisters.  The  floors  made  comely  and 
close  joynted,  to  preserve  th;^  dirt  from  falling-  downe.  All  the  seats  to  be 
finished  comely,  aconling  to  the  usiall  mafier  of  such  worke.  with  a 
suilieient  paire  of  staiers  to  them,  and  a  floor  to  cary  to  the  seats,  the  hind 
seat  at  the  west  end  to  reach  from  roofl'e  to  rooffe.  And  to  make  a 
casement  window  of  two  foot  square  in  the  cleare.  and  put  it  up  at  y^ 
east  end  of  the  house  above  the  collarbeame.  To  find  all  the  stuffe  and 
nails  and  boords  and  carting. at  his  owne  charges;  all  the  timber  to  be 
sound  and  good,  and  the  work  all  well  wrought,  workmanlike,  acording  to 
y"-"  
nature  of  such  worke  (glass  exempted),  and  the  work  to  be  done  by  y** 
last  of  March  next." 
With  this  improvement  the  house  served  the  fathers  for  worship 
fourteen  j-ears  longer,  when  the  following  record  is  found  : — 
"8.  10™o,  1693.  In  reference  to  a  new  Meeting  house,  the  town  voted 
their  willingness,  and  desire  that  Capt.  Hill,  Mr.  Crosbey.  Leift.  Willson, 
and  Sergt.  Eichison  should  uudertake  the  same,  to  begin  and  finish.  Redding 
fleeting  house  to  be  the  pattern  in  most  respects  ;  also,  the;,  are  willing  to 
<jive  three  hundred  pounds,  one  quarter  of  it  in  money  and  y*-'  seats  of  y® 
old  raeetingliouse  what  may  be  of  use,  acording  to  disc;ours  about  it.  The 
Town  Appoint  Capt.  Danfoi-th,  Leift.  Tomson.  Cornit  Starns.  and  Joseph 
^Valker,  Sen.,  to  draAV  up  a  bai'gain  with  the  aforesaid  undertakers;  to 
order  when  the  said  house  shall  be  finished  and  when  the  money  shall  be 
paid,  and  in  what  and  at  what  tearines  the  inhabitants  shall  be  imployed 
about  it.     Also,  they  order  that  when  y«  Court  shall  have  approved  our 
 - 192 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORY.  169 
Town  orders,  a  list  of  every  man's  estate  shall  be  taken  acording  to  former 
agreement,  and  y^  charges  of  said  house  assessed  and  to  be  collected 
according  to  agreement  with  the  undertakers." 
July  9,  1694.  Provision  was  made  for  staging  for  raising  the 
nieetiug-house.  Sundry  inhabitants  were  appointed  to  provide  posts 
and  others  to  dig  holes  for  them  ;  '"the  next  second  da_v,  being  the 
16  of  July,"  was  appointed,  and  "all  persons  capable  of  labor" 
were  "to  apear  b}'  seven  o'clock  in  the  morning  at  the  second  beat 
of  the  drumb."  The  clerk,  good  Deacon  Tompson,  completes  his 
account  : — ^ 
••The  service  was  .jitcnded  upon  the  dav  apointed  by  about  forty  and 
five  hands  of  our  towne  the  first  day.  and  the  towne  generall}'  came  together 
the  second  day,  and  manj^  other  out  of  other  Towns,  sum  that  came  to 
inspect  us  and  several  that  were  helpful  to  us  of  other  Towns  ;  and  the  third 
day  we  concluded  our  worke  with  our  own  Town's  help ;  perticuler  persons 
provided  for  them  selve?  and  friends;  no  considerable  harm  done,  not  a 
bone  broken  ;  we  had  the  heipe  of  our  Reverend  ])astour  to  desire  god's 
blessing  and  protection,  and  when  we  had  finished  our  work  we  concluded 
with  a  psalm  of  praise  and  returning  thanks  unto  god  by  our  Keverend 
pastour.'' 
In  December  it  was  voted  tliat  there  should  be  two  pairs  of 
stairs,  not  four,  to  the  gallery  ;  and  a  proposition  was  rejected  to 
have  the  pulpit  set  forward  far  enough  to  haA-e  one  seat  behind  it. 
The  matter  of  seating  persons  in  the  meeting-house  cost  the 
fathers  no  little  anxiety.  As  early  as  IGGl  this  appears  in  the 
record,  already  given:''  "2!'),  11'",  166.;,"  it  was  ordered,  "That 
the  Towns  men  in  being  shall  order  the  seating  of  persons  in  y*" 
meetinghouse  which  are  not  seated  at  the  p'"sent,  and  to  remove, 
alter,  and  change  prsons  already-  seated,  acording  to  their  best  discre- 
tion." After  this  a  special  committee  is  appointed  occasionally,  once 
in  two  or  three  years,  to  discharge  this  duty,  until  in  1679  it  was  again 
committed  to  the  selectmen.  Rank,  wealth,  and  social  standing 
were  the  factors  in  determining  the  place  where  persons  should  sit, 
and  there  was  ample  room  for  jealousy  and  trouble,  even  among  the 
plain  3-eomanrv  of  Billerica,  on  this  subject.  "Mr.  Richard  Daniel, 
Gentleman,"  whose  wife  was  a  daughter  of  a  knight  in  England, 
had,  it  is  safe  to  say,  one  of  the  best  seats. 
On  the  completion  of  the  new  meeting-house  the  question  of 
"seats"    gained    fresh    importance    and    a    larger    committee    was 
'  Records.    Vol.  II,  p.  51.  3  g^  p.  i55  above. 
 - 193 - 
170  HISTORY   OF   BILLERICA. 
appointed,  "Namely,  Capt.  John  Lane,  Corp"  Jonathan  Hill, 
Mr.  Simon  Crosbe}-,  Serjt.  Jacob  French,  Serjt.  Samnel  Manning, 
Mr.  Edward  Farmer,  Mr.  Joseph  "Walker,  John  Shcad."  *  "At 
the  same  meetng  the  Town  apointed  Capt.  Jonathan  Danforth  & 
Lt.  John  Sternes  and  Joseph  Tomson,  to  apoint  such  persons  where 
they  should  have  their  places  in  y^  meeting  house  and  their  waves, 
who  were  appointed  to  place  the  other  inhabitants."  Which  of  these 
committees  was  first  to  assign  the  other  their  seats  is  not  clear  ;  but 
it  is  to  be  hoped  that  the}'  knew  and  had  no  heart-burnings  about  it. 
The  result  of  their  labors  gave  so  little  satisfaction  that  it  was  voted 
a  nullity  the  next  year,  and  a  new  cammittee  of  five  was  to  bo. 
appointed.  But  no  record  was  made  of  the  appointment  or  action 
of  a  second  committee,  and  probably  the  effort  to  improve  the 
previous  arrangement  did  not  succeed. 
The  material  for  the  spiritual  history  of  tlie  town  is  very  meagre. 
For  the  first  centur}'  we  have  almost  nothing,  except  hints  of  the 
town  record  relating  to  the  pastor  and  the  successive  meeting-houses. 
Of  Mr.  Whiting's  personality  we  have  no  glimpse,  nor  of  the  qualit}- 
of  his  preaching.  The  collection  of  his  mss.  sermons,  once  in 
possession  of  the  late  Rev.  C.  B.  Thomas,  of  Concord,  Xew 
Hampshire,  which  was  taken  b}'  him  to  Missouii,  would  give  light 
on  this  point,  but  has  probably  gone  the  w:ay  of  the  Alexandrian 
Library.  That  he  was  a  faithful  minister,  worth}'  of  the  respect  and 
love  accorded  to  him  by  two  generations  here,  can  not  be -questioned. 
He  brought  the  earnestness  of  a  Puritan  and  the  culture  of  Harvard 
to  his  long  and  self-den3-ing  labors  ;  and  the  absence  of  an}-  hint  of 
doubt  or  disaffection  in  all  the  years  of  his  ministrj'  bears  testimony 
to  the  wisdom  with  which  he  filled  his  high  oflice.  His  house  was 
the  "main  garrison"  of  all  the  dark  war  days;  and  he  was  the 
trusted  counsellor  of  Danforth,  Tompson,  and  others,  in  all  their 
important  and  trying  secular  matters,  as  well  as  spiritual.  Ihe 
wisdom  of  this  world  was  combined  with  that  from  above  to  a 
degree  rarely  equalled  in  the  earl}'  Xew  Elngland  ministers,  and 
Mr.  Whiting  held  an  honorable  place  among  them. 
That  he  had  opinions  and  convictions  far  in  advance  of  his 
century  is  pleasantl}'  shown  in  this  record,  30  October,  IGDo  :■*  "At 
this  meeting  our  Reverend  Paster,  Mr.  Sam\  Whiting,  did  set  at 
liberty  and  free  from  his  service,  Simon  Negro,  who  hath  been  his 
''  
Records.    Vol.  II,  p.  35. 
 - 194 - 
RELIGIOUS   HISTORY.  171 
servant  about  thirty  and  one  years,  being  now  about  forty  years  old. 
The  which  said  Simou  Negro  the  town  of  Billerica  doth  accept  as  an 
inhabitant  amongst  themselves."  Does  the  countr\-  aftbrd  an  earlier 
prophecy  of  the  great  Emancipation  Proclamation  !  This  faithful 
servant,  it  ma}'  be  added,  received,  in  1709,  a  grant  of  seventeen 
acres  of  land;  and,  in  his  will,  which  bears  date  a  few  days  after 
Mr.  "Whiting's  death,  "in  consideration  of  the  respect  which  I  have 
and  do  bear  to  my  Master's  family,"  he  gives  them  his  homestead 
and  the  land  west  of  Concord  River,  granted  as  above.  In  the 
recital  of  Mr.  Whiting's  children  he  names  "Samuel,  of  Dunstable, 
now  in  captivity." 
But  the  labors  and  hardships  of  his  ministry  began  to  show  their 
effect,  after  more  tiian  forty  years.  A  hint  of  this  has  been  given 
from  Judge  Sewall's  Diary;"'  and  the  coincidence,  even  of  language, 
is  curious,  that  Mr.  Tompson  makes  this  record  two  months  earlier 
than  Judge  .Sewall's  call.  A  town  meeting  was  to  be  held  "August 
10,  1702,  to  agree  about  providing  of  help  to  suppl}-  the  Reverend 
Mr.  Samuell  Whiting's  place,  being  in  a  weak  &  languishing  condi- 
tion." The  action  taken  was  as  follows  :  "The}'  do  agree  to  make 
a  free  Contribution  to  gratify  persons  imployed  by  us,  to  the  valine 
of  ten  or  twelve  shillings  pr.  day,  to  be  given  unto  him  by  the 
Deacon  out  of  such  contribution  ;  who,  with  the  Asistauce  of  Mr. 
Simon  Crosby,  are  desii'ed  both  to  receive  the  Contribution  &  to  take 
speciall  care  that  we  be  suplied  with  a  minister  from  Daj'  to  day, 
untill  further  order,  or  that  our  Reverend  pastor  is  sum  what  able  to 
suply  as  formerh'." 
Another  meeting  was  held,  October  12,  and  committee  sent  to 
consult  with  Mr.  Whiting  "whether  we  should  call  one  at  present, 
in  order  to  a  settlement  among  us,  or  to  desire  some  help  onelj-  for 
this  winter  season."  The  lesult  was  that  a  temporarj'  supply  was 
deemed  expedient.  Mr.  AVhitiug  proposed,  if  his  salary  were  made 
up  in  full,  to  "diet  the  minister  that  might  come  to  help."  There 
was  much  discourse  about  the  matter,  but  on  account  of  his  weak- 
ness, naturally  several  were  "averse  unto  it."  "After  much  debate 
it  seemed  no  help  that  could  l>e  [)rocured  to  suph'  in  the  ministiy  at 
present,  except  that  it  was  done  out  of  that  which  we  had  usulj' 
&  annually  granted  unto  the  Reverend  Mr.  Samuell  Whiteing.  A 
matter  ver}-  grievous  unto  severall  amongst  us." 
0  See  above,  p.  155. 
 - 195 - 
172  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
A  committee  was  appointed  to  seek  help  until  spring.  '•  Mr.  John 
Fox  was  desired  and  Mr.  John  Whiting  next  to  him."  ]\[r.  Fox 
proposed  to  supply  until  May,  for  fifteen  shillings  per  Salibath,  in 
silver,  and  his  expenses.  The  town  proposed  that  he  should  "find 
himself,"  and  he,  it  seems,  consented,  as  he  was  paid  for  eighteen 
Sabbaths,  £13,  lO.s.  Mr.  Fox  was  the  son  of  the  pastor  at  Woburn. 
His  father  died  while  he  was  preaching  in  Billerica,  and  in  November 
he  was  himself  settled  in  Woburn,  remaining  pastor  until  his  death,  in 
1756.  Mr.  John  Whiting,  above  named,  was  the  son  of  Rev.  Joseph 
Whiting,  brother  of  the  pastor  here.  He  was  settled  at  Concord,  in 
1712,  and  for  man}'  3'ears  was  pastor  there.  We  ma^'  infer  that 
Mr.  Whiting  was  able  to  resume  his  labors  in  May,  and  we  know 
that  ' '  
he  did  not  see  his  way  clear  at  present  to  abate  of  his  salary 
for  the  encouragement  of  another."''  He  continued  to  discharge  his 
miuistrv  five  3'ears  longer,  when  his  disability,  by  reason  of  age  or 
infirmity,  became  such  that  the  town  proceeded  to  employ  a  colleague. 
"•At  a  general  Town  meeting,  Jul}'  7,  1707,  the  inhabitants  of 
the  Town  made  choj'ce  of  Mr.  Samuel  Ruggles,  of  Iloxbur}',  to  help 
Mr.  Whiting  in  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  one  3'ear  next  ensuing, 
in  case  the  Town  &  Mr.  Ruggels  can  agree  upon  terms."  Captain 
Tompson  and  Captain  Lane  were  appointed  to  treat  with  Mr, 
Ruggles.  Mr.  Whiting  proposed  to  abate  £20  of  his  salary  if  the 
remaining  £50  were  paid  him,  and  the  town  voted  to  pay  Mr.  Ruggles 
£40  per  3-ear  Avhile  Mr.  Whiting  was  able  to  assist  him,  and  £80  for 
a  settlement.  The  latter  was  increased  to  £100.  The}'  also  voted 
that  "four  or  five  acres,  or  as  much  as  can  be  conveniently  spared, 
of  the  comon  land,  westward  of  the  meeting  house  and  Rubish 
meadow,  shall  be  sold  to  help  pay  the  hundred  pounds  to  Mr, 
Ruggles,  he  to  have  the  refusal  of  said  laud."  And  it  was  finalh' 
stipulated  that  "after  Mr.  Whiting's  decease  the  Town  will  make 
Mr.  Ruggles  his  sallery  as  good  as  ever  Mr.  Whiting's  sallery  was 
befour  Mr.  Ruggles  came  to  Town." 
September  8,  1707,  the  town  granted  him  "eight  acres  of  land, 
for  four  pounds  an  acre,  on  the  common  westward  of  the  meeting 
house,  bounded  by  Enoch  Kidder  west,  b}-  Rogers  south,  In'  a 
highwa}'  nortli,  and  east  by  a  streight  line  from  the  southeast  corner 
of  Capt.  Danfortli  his  paster  to  the  northeast  corner  of  Rogers  his 
orchard,  by  the  pound."     This  was  the  familiar  corner  on  which  now 
"  Records.    Vol.  II,  p.  228. 
 - 196 - 
EELIGIOUS   HISTORY.  173 
stand  Mrs.  Osborn's  house,  the  Beuuett  Library,  and  the  First 
Church.  It  ma}'  have  inckided  the  site  of  Mr.  Morey's  store  and 
the  Post  Office.  Here  Mr.  Euggles  built  his  home  and  lived  for 
forty  3'ears. 
The  formal  agTeement  embodying  these  stipulations  is  recorded, 
(Vol.  II,  p.  267).  It  was  also  agi-eed  that  he  should  receive  ten 
pounds  annually  and  provide  his  own  firewood  ;  and  that,  if  he 
removed  without  the  consent  of  tlie  major  part  of  the  town,  he 
should  return  the  hundred  pounds  "settlement."  The  fact  is  note- 
worth}-,  that  we  have  no  hint  of  the  church  being  consulted  or  having 
any  voice,  as  distinct^  from  the  town,  in  all  these  negotiations.  In 
fact  the  town  and  the  church  were  felt  to  be  one,  and  no  distinction 
occurred  to  these  good  men.  Sixty  years  later,  when  Dr.  Cumings 
was  settled,  they  had  reached  the  stiige  of  a  separate  consciousness. 
The  employment  of  Mr.  Iluggles  for  a  year  was  evidently  at  first  as 
a  candidate  onlj* ;  but  the  result  being  favorable,  he  was  ordained, 
1708,  May  19. 
The  venerable  senior  pastor  was  spared  for  five  years  longer, 
rounding  out,  in  serene  age,  one  of  those  pastorates  which  constitute 
an  epoch  in  the  history-  of  any  community.  His  parish  was  wide, 
extending  with  the  town  from  Concord  and  the  modern  Acton  to  the 
Merrimack  and  Andover.  For  fifty-six  years  he  preached  the  gospel 
to  hearers  who  came  five  and  six  miles  to  listen.  They  heard  two 
sermons,  and  we  ma}'  be  sure  they  were  not  short  ones.  The  modern 
demand  for  a  sermon  not  over  half-an-hour  long  would  have  surprised 
these  fathers  as  much  as  would  the  railroad,  the  telegraph,  or  a  daily 
newspaper.  They  sought  at  church  not  merel}'  spiritual  food,  but 
much  of  the  intellectual  and  social  stimulus  which  their  children  draw 
from  other  sources,,  and  hence  would  listen  without  weariness  and 
eagerly,  and  go  home  to  discuss  sermons  which  a  modern  audience 
would  not  tolerate.  The  demands  of  such  a  ministry-  Mr.  Whiting 
satisfied  with  honor  to  himself,  ''holding  forth  the  word  of  life,"  and 
winning  souls  to  his  divine  Master.  He  baptized  the  children  and 
buried  the  dead  ;  but  he  did  not  alwaj's,  probablj'  not  often,  perform 
the  marriage  service.  The  fathers  thought  that  it  smacked  of  popery 
for  the  minister  to  many  them,  and  went  to  the  magistrate  instead. 
Casting  in  his  lot  with  the  3'oung  town,  and  meeting  patiently 
and  bravely  the  hardships  it  involved,  he  reaped  his  reward  in  the 
respect  and  aftection  which  surrounded  his  old  age.  His  influence 
was  stamped  upon  the  character  and  histor}'  of  the  town.     At  last 
 - 197 - 
174  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
his  work  wns.  done.  Jonathan  Danfbrth,  companion  and  friend  of 
many  years,  died  in  September,  1712.  Then,  on  Febrnary  15,  the 
dearer  companion  of  all  his  joys  and  sorrows  was  taken  away. 
Witliout  her  tlie  good  man  could  not  live,  and  death  separated  them 
but  thirteen  days.  On  the  last  day  of  February,  1712-3,  the  faithful 
shepherd  went  to  his  rest.  Cotton  Mather  tells  us,  and  we  may 
thank  him  for  the  item,  that  he  died  "an  hour  before  Sunset." 
And,  not  for  their  poetry  but  their  truth,  we  may  repeat  the  lines  : 
"Whiting,  we  here  behold,  a  starry  light, 
Burning  in  Christ's  right  hand,  and  shining  brigljt; 
Years  seven  times  seven  sent  forth  his  precious  rays, 
Unto  the  Gospel's  profit  and  Jehovah's  praise." 
The  pastorate  of  Mr.  Ruo-gles  continued  a  few  months  more  than 
forty  years,  and  was  terminated  by  his  death,  1748-9,  March  1. 
Little  is  known  of  his  ministry  and  character,  and  the  family  history 
given  elsewhere  includes  nearly  all  that  can  be  said  of  him.  The 
rapidity  with  which  oblivion  covers  the  lives  and  deeds  of  men  has  a 
striking  illustration  in  the  scantiness  of  our  knowledge  of  Billerica's 
second  pastor.  For  more  than  a  generation  this  gentleman  lived 
and  labored,  a  foremost  figure  in  the  life  of  the  town,  preaching  the 
gospel  from  week  to  week  in  the  pulpit  and  by  the  way,  satisfying  so 
well  the  lofty  Puritan  ideal  of  a  pastor  that  no  whisper  of  dissatis- 
faction is  
preserved.  Yet  what  manner  of  man  he  was,  or  what 
were  the  characteristics  of  his  ministry,  we  have  no  hint.  But  lives 
happy  and  useful  are  often  quiet,  sounding  no  trumpets,  and  this  is 
the  just  account  of  many  a  rural  pastor  whose  record  is  on  high. 
A  negative  inference  is  suggested  b}'  the,  absence  of  Mr.  Kuggles' 
name  from  all  the  narratives  and  testimonies  which,  in  his  later 
years,  grew  out  of  the  presence  of  Whitefield  in  New  England,  and 
the  controversies  which  accompanied  him.  Jonathan  Edwards  was 
settled  at  Northampton  in  1727.  With  the  insight  of  a  master  mind 
he  detected  currents  in  the  life  of  the  churches  of  perilous  tendency. 
The  old  Half- Way  Covenant  was  filling  them  with  members  who 
gave  "no  credible  evidence  of  regeneration,"  and  even  opening  the 
pulpits  to  men  of  the  same  class,  while  the  duty  of  communion  as  a 
"means  of  grace"  was  urged  upon  unconverted  men.  Edwards,  and 
after  him  Whitefield,  brought  all  their  great  powers  to  bear  against 
these  errors,  and  no  small  stir  was  the  natural  consequence.  If  the 
churches  accepted  the  revolutionaiy  doctrines,  man}'  feared  the  loss 
of  civil  privileges  along  with  those  of  communion.  Edwards  was 
di'ivenfrom  Northampton  to  the  wilds  of  Stockbridge,  and  Whitefield 
 - 198 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORT.  175 
was  assailed  with  bitter  opposition.  lie  was  not  tlie  first  or  last 
reformer  not  always  temperate  or  wise,  and  good  men  were  divided 
in  opinion.  Testimonies  and  counter-testimonies  multiplied  and  the 
lines  were  tighth'  drawn  on  every  hand.  There  were  few  of  the 
ministers  whose  names  do  not  appear  and  whose  position  was  not 
recorded  on  one  side  or  the  other.  Mr.  Ruggles  was  one  of  the  few. 
This  may  be  partiallv  explained  by  the  fact  that  the  infirmity  of  age 
began  to  tell  upon  him  early.  Yet  the  suspicion  is  natural  that  he 
s.ympathized  with  the  position  of  his  son-in-law,  Mr.  iNIorrill,  of 
AVilmington,  of  whom  tradition  relates,  that  when  Mr.  Whitefield  had 
an  appointment  to  preach  there,  he  rode  all  over  town  and  warned 
"his  people  not  to  attend  the  service.  The  result  Avas  natural;  a 
first-rate  notice  and  a  great  congregation. 
The  building  of  the  thii-d  meeting-house  occurred  during  Mr. 
Ruggles'  pastorate.  The  vote  to  build  was  passed,  1737,  Septem- 
ber 15th,  and  a  building  committee  was  appointed  in  November, 
consisting  of  Dea.  Samuel  Hill,  Benjamin  Tompson,  Esq.,  Joshua 
Abbott,  P"ns.  Benjamin  Shed,  and  Sergt.  Benjamin  Frost.  Timber 
was  to  be  made  ready  for  building  the  next  summer.  The  size  of 
the  house  was  to  be  G0X40,  and  26  feet  "between  joynts."  It  was 
to  be  thirt}'  feet  north  of  the  former  house,  and  must  have  stood 
near  the  present  Soldiers'  Monument.  The  raising  took  place,  1738, 
Ma}-  24th,  and  March  Gth  following,  the  town  voted,  "after  large 
debate,"  to  "sell  the  pue  ground  in  our  new  meeting  house,  under 
such  Restrictions  and  Regulations  as  the  town  shall  hereafter  see 
best,  which  money  coming  b}'  the  sale  of  the  pues  shall  be  improyed 
towards  the  finishing  our  new  meeting  house."  In  May,  it  was 
voted,  "that  when  any  pue  is  granted  to  any  man,  in  our  new 
meeting  house,  that  the  man  and  his  family  shall  sit  in  said  pue, 
if  there  be  conveniency  of  room  in  said  pue."  In  the  earlier 
meeting-houses  pews  had  been  few.  The  first  mention  of  one  is 
in  1670,  December,  when  Mr.  Daniel  had  "liberty  to  make  a  pue  in 
the  east  end  of  y^  meeting  house,  where  he  did  desire  it"  ;  and 
Mr.  Whiting  had  a  pew  in  the  new  house  in  IG'Ji.  If  thei-e  were 
any  other  pews  before  1712,  they  are  not  alluded  to.  But,  1711, 
November  16,  the  town  granted  "liberty  to  build  pues  in  the  vacant 
Ijlaces  in  y*^  
meeting  house,  and  to  cut  of  two  or  three  feet  of  tlie 
deacon's  seat."  March  17,  it  was  "voted,  that  those  persons  that 
had  the  grant  of  pues  in  the  meeting  house  shall  be  at  the  whol 
charge  of  building  them,  and  that  those  two  persons  that  shall  Joyne 
 - 199 - 
176  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
upon  that  place  that  is  granted  for  Mr.  Whiting's  pue  shall  be  at  the 
charge  to  finish  that  pue.  Also,  that  every  man  that  shall  have  the 
grant  of  a  pue  shall  be  oblidged  himself  and  his  wife  to  sit  there, 
and  to  keep  it  filled  with  such  a  convenient  number  as  shall  be 
judged  fit  l^y  the  committee  that  shall  be  appointed  to  Kegulate  that 
affair.  Also,  it  was  voted,  that  there  should  be  liberty  to  build  pues 
behind  the  body  of  seats  below,  taking  away  the  hind  seat,  and  so 
taking  as  much  of  the  Allej'  as  is  convenient,  and  not  to  streighten 
the  passages."  .Simon  Crosby  was  granted  a  place  "on  the  North 
side,  between  Mr.  Whiting's  pue  and  the  old  pue  at  the  east  end  of 
the  pulpit";  Captain  Tompson,  "between  Mr.  Whiting's  pue  and 
the  East  door";  Lieut.  Samuel  Hill,  "between  Mr.  Ruggles'  pue* 
and  the  West  door,  Mr.  Ruggles  his  pue  to  be  taken  in  to  the  middle 
of  the  window";  Enoch  Kidder  and  Simon  Crosby  "ters,  that 
place  between  the  west  door  and  the  stay";  Quarter.  Nathaniel 
Page  and  Job  Lane,  Jun^,  "that  place  behind  the  bod\'  of  seats,  at 
the  upper  end  of  the  men's  seats";  Joseph  Crosb}',  "behind  the 
women's  seats,  joining  to  Mr.  Page  and  Job  Lane"  ;  Dea.  Samuel 
Hunt,  "behind  the  men's  body  of  seats,  joining  to  Mr.  Page."  It 
was  also  voted,  that  the  west  door  should  be  cut  and  hung  to  open  at 
the  middle;  and  the  three  deacons,  with  Major  Lane  and  Oliver 
Whiting,  were  appointed  a  committee  to  regulate  the  matter  of  the 
pews.  The  deacons  were  Joseph  Tompson  and,  probably,  Joseph 
Foster  and  John  Sheldon'. 
From  this  record  it  seems  that  ten  pews  were  built  in  the  old 
church  before  and  behind  the  two  rows  of  long  seats  or  benches  on 
which  the  men  and  women  sat,  separated  by  the  central  passage. 
Tn  the  new  church,  the  committee  chosen  to  "order  who  shall  have 
the  pues"  were  instructed,  "so  far  as  they  have  respect  to  pa\%  to 
govern  themselves  only  by  real  and  personal  estate."  But  the  town 
was  not  pleased  with  the  result  and  appointed  another  committee  "to 
assess  the  value  of  the  pue  ground."  Their  report  assesses  twent}'- 
two  choices  at  sums  from  £15,  18s.,  to  £5,  12s.,  reaching  a  total  of 
£254.  It  was  then  voted,  1739-40,  March  4,  that  "the  highest 
payers  of  the  two  Rates  that  was  granted  for  the  building  our  new 
meeting  house  shall  have  the  offer  successively  of  the  pue  ground  at 
the  price  set  on  them,"  and  the  next  Monday  a  meeting  was  held,  at 
which  "the  heirs  of  the  pue  ground"  were  to  declare  their  "accept- 
ance or  refusal  of  their  right."  The  twenty-two  tax-payers  who 
would  be  entitled,  on  this  condition,  to  the  pues,  if  all  accepted 
 - 200 - 
KELIGIOUS    HISTORY.  177 
their  right,  were  in  order  as  follaws  :  John  Stearns,  Simon  Crosby, 
William  Stickue}',  Jonathan  Bowers,  P^lizabeth  Osgood,  Benjamin 
Tompson,  Andrew  Richardson,  William  French,  Seth  Ross,  Joseph 
Farley,  John  Shed,  Joseph  Davis,  Samuel  Sheldon,  John  Needham, 
Oliver  Farmer,  Joshua  Abbott,  Benjamin  Shed,  William  Crosby, 
John  Hill,  Nathaniel  Richardson,  Thomas  Ross,  and  Jacob  Walker. 
These  pews  were  placed  doubtless  around  b}'  the  walls,  leaving  the 
centre  to  be  filled  with  long  seats,  where  those  not  provided  for  in 
the  pews  would  find  a  place. 
The  old  house  was  sold  for  £40,  the  town  "reserving  such  seats 
as  the}-  had  occasion  for  in  finishing  the  new,  and  the  glass  of  the 
pue  in  the  south  front  galerie,  provided  l)y  the  proprietors  of  the  said 
pue,  and  the  window  that  Mr.  Samuel  Uanforth  provided."  It  would 
be  interesting  if  we  had  a  sight  or  intelligible  description  of  this 
reserved  glass  and  window.  The  cost  of  the  house  was  provided 
for  by  one  rate  of  £500,  two  of  £250  each,  and  b}-  the  sale  of  the 
pews  for  £250,  making  a  total  of  £1250.  Whoever  is  curious  to  do 
so,  can  trace  minute  details  of  the  expenditures  as  they  are  recorded, 
(Vol.  Ill,  pp.  101-2,  137-38)  .  For  "framing,"  Ens.  Benjamin  Shed, 
Sergt.  Benjamin  Frost,  and  John  Button  were  paid  "  13  -  06  -  08," 
each,  and  a  large  proportion  of  the  names  of  citizens  appear,  credited 
with  labor,  lumber,  nails,  or  other  items.  This  house  served  the 
town  for  sixty  years,  when  the  present  First  Church  was  built,  in 
1797.  The  old  house  was  then  sold  to  the  contractor  for  building  a 
town-  and  school-house  and  reconstructed,  with  reduced  dimensions, 
[on  the  east  side  of  Main  Street  near.  There  it  was  so  used  for  a 
generation,  and  many  of  the  older  people  of  to-day  attended  school 
pin  
this  venerable  building.  It  then  passed  into  private  hands  and 
was  used  as  a  hall  and  store  until  187G,  when  it  was  burned  with  the 
adjoining  hotel,  which  stood  on  the  corner  of  Andover  Street. 
The  early  years  of  Mr.  Ruggles'  ministry  were  signalized  by  the 
appearance  of  a  bell.  At  a  meeting,  1710-11,  March  9th,  it  was 
voted,  "that  the  money  that  the  land  was  sold  for  to  Capt.  Reed,  on 
the  west  of  Concord  River,  shall  be  laid  out,  to  buy  a  bell  for  the 
meeting  house."  Captain  Lane  and  Lieutenant  John  Stearns  were 
appointed  "a  committy  to  provide  a  Bell  for  the  Town,  not  exceeding 
sixty  pounds  prise."  The  land  sold  to  Captain  Reed  was  a  tract 
remaining  after  the  land  divisions  of  1708-10,  and  consisted  of  five 
hundred  and  sixty  acres,  bounded  "southwest  by  Concord,  one  mile  ; 
and  on  the  Nor  west  by  the  Major's  farme,  upon  a  streight  line  about 
 - 201 - 
178  HISTORY   OF   BILLERiCA. 
384  poles,  and  partly  by  Verginia  meadows  ;  on  the  north  east  by 
the  la«d  of  Kendal  Patten  about  323  poles  ;  and  south  east  by  the 
Bloods'  land,  in  a  crooked  line,  about  292  poles."  Previous  grants 
of  meadow  were  excepted.  The  price  is  not  stated,  but  was  prob- 
abl}'  £50,  as  more  than  that  sum  is  said  to  be  in  bank,  and  the 
balance  of  the  £60  was  to  be  raised  if  necessary  by  a  town  rate. 
For  the  hanging  of  the  bell,  the  town  agreed,  1713-14,  January  18, 
with  James  Hosle}'  and  Ben.  Frost.  They  were  to  do  all  the  wood 
work,  make  the  stairs,  platform,  and  door,  and  provide  the  "Irone 
work  of  good  Irone,"  for  which  they  were  to  have  pa^',  and  hang  the 
bell  "fit  to  ring"  ;  for  all  which  they  were  to  receive  £4  and  aid  in 
raising  the  bell. 
This  bell  was  used  until  1753,  January  23,  when  a  committee 
was  appointed  "to  take  down  the  bell  and  convey  it  to  Boston  and 
dispose  of  it  in  the  best  way  the}'  can  towards  the  procuring  another  ; 
and  indent  with  some  Gentleman  for  another,  *  and  to  Run  tlie 
hassard  of  said  Bell  from  Ingland  to  Boston  ;  the  bell  to  l)e  i)rocured 
by  said  committee  is  not  to  exceed  five  hundred  pounds  in  weight." 
At  the  same  time  the  town  voted  to  sell  "so  much  of  the  hind  seats 
on  the  lower  floor  on  the  south  side  of  our  meeting  house,  on  each 
side  the  middle  or  broad  aWoy,  as  will  be  convenient  for  six  pues, 
three  on  a  side,  to  be  sold  to  the  highest  bidder,  *  in  order  to 
purchase  a  meeting  house  bell." 
This  second  bell,  it  appears,  came  from  England,  and  was 
probably  the  same  which  was  "cracked"  by  violent  ringing  on 
July  4th,  1842.  The  memory  of  our  older  citizens  recalls  the  fact 
that  it  bore  an  inscription  including  the  name  "Billericay,"  a  form 
of  the  word  which  English  workmen  would  be  very  likely  to  use. 
But  the  facts  disprove  the  pleasant  tradition  that  the  first  bell  in 
town  was  a  gift,  suitably  inscribed,  from  the  English  Billericay. 
And  it  is  hardly  possible  that  such  an  incident  could  have  occurred 
at  any  later  date  and  left  no  trace  in  the  Records  of  either  town. 
Of  the  congregation  in  Mr.  Ruggles'  da}'  we  have  an  interesting 
glimpse  in  a  seating  list,  which  has  been  fortunately  preserved.  It 
is  without  dale,  but  must  belong  to  the  old  meeting-house,  and  after 
1733.  If  we  assume  its  date  as  1736,  we  can  not  be  far  from  the 
fact.  The  occupants  of  the  ten  pews  are,  of  course,  not  included, 
and,  if  two  families  occupied  each  pew,  these  would  add  twenty 
names  to  the  one  hundred  and  fifty  of  this  list.  But  about  thirty 
of  the  3'oung  men  seated  in  the  side  gallery  were  not  married,  and 
 - 202 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORY.                                 179 
the  number  of  families  iu  the  congregation,  judging  from  this  record, 
must  have  been  near  one  hundred  and  forty.  The  deacons  were 
seated  in  front  of  the  pulpit,  and  their  wives  with  the  widows,  and 
two  other  ladies  are  speciallj'  provided  for.  In  the  two  front  seats 
we  see  the  twenty  men  who  are  dignified  with  the  title  of  "Mr." 
Of  the  first  ten,  Mr.  Richardson,  aged  fifty-six,  was  the  youngest. 
LIST  OF   SITTINGS    IN   THE   MEETING-HOUSE,  AliOUT  1736. 
^'■Fore  seat  heloio  : 
Front  fore  seat  :                               6th  seat  below  : 
Mr.  Enoch  Kider.                Dani.  Sticknej^                    James  Crosbe3^ 
Mr.  Saini.  Danforth.          Jacob  French.                      James  Frost. 
Mr.  Isaac  Stearns.               John  Baldwin.                    W"\  Tarbell. 
Mr.  Tho  :  Pattin.                  Sami.  Brown.                     Nicolas  Danforth. 
Mr.  Nathan  Crosbey.        Jacob  Danforth.                 Isaac  Marshall. 
Mr.  Thomas  Baldwhi.       Stephen  Richardson. 
Mr.  John  Needhani.          Thomas  Crosbey.               Joseph  Hill,  Jun''. 
Hezekiah  Duntley. 
Mr.  Jonathan  Hill.               Thorn.  Ross.                         Joseph  Kemp. 
Mr.  W'".  ]\lanning\              Sam'.  Danforth,  Jun^^.         Natti.  Pattin. 
Mr.  Natt'.  Eichardson.      Benj.  Frost.                             Richard  Farmer. 
2d  seat  below  :                                    4th  seat  below  :                                 7th  seat  below  : 
Mr.  Hugh  Ditson.               Timothy  Farley.                  Sami.  Hall. 
Mr.  Sam'.  Hill.  Jun^        Robert  Blare.                         John  Frost. 
Mr.  John  Wilson.               Jonathan  Kemp.               W"'.  Needham. 
Dr.  R.  ToothacKr.              Nicolas  Sprake.                   Eleazer  Whiting. 
Mr.  Jolm  Leavenston.       Jolm  Blanchrd.                   Jacob  Willson. 
Mr.  Oliver  Farmer.            Seth  Putnam.                     Jeremiah  Abbott. 
Mr.  Benoney  Spaldwin.    Benj"'.  Hopkins. 
Mr.  John  Durrant.             Edward  Pollard.                  Jonathan  Kemp,  Juni". 
James  Sanders. 
Mr.  Jolm  Walker.              John  Brown.                      Peter  Hill. 
Mr.  Oliver  Wliiting.           Thorn.  Horsley. 
John  Blanchard,  Jun"", 
3d  seat  below  :                                 5th  seat  below  :                                 8th  seat  below  : 
Josiah  Crosbey.                  Eben  Dowse.                     Benj.  Manning. 
John  Sanders.                      W"'.  Shed.                              James  Ditson. 
Ralph  Hill.                                 Sami.  Danforth,  Ters.        Jeremiah  Baldwin. 
Edward  Farmer.                Joseph  MnnRoe.               Joseph  Walker. 
Benj.  Walker.                      Abraham  Durrant.             Richard  Snow. 
Jona".  Danforth.                Saud.  Richarson.                John  Horsley. 
Josiah  Brown.                   Jamos  Farley.                      Natt'.  Pollard. 
Seth  Ross.             ,                                 AV'".  Manning-.  Jun^          Eben  Hill. 
Enoch  Kidder,  Jun^         John  Pattin.                            Tho.  Leavenston. 
John  Pollard.                        Clement  Chamberlin.        Nicolas  French. 
 - 203 - 
180                          HISTORY   OF   BILLEKICA. 
LIST  OF  SITTINGS   IN  THE  MEETING-UOVSE.—  Continued. 
Fore  seat^  side  Gallerie  . 
W"".  Kidder. 
David  Baldwin. 
W'".  Baldwin. 
Ealpli  Hill,  Jun^ 
Eben  Fren(ih. 
Samuel  Wliiting. 
Nicolas  Sprake.  Jun'". 
Sanii.  Hill.  Ters. 
Thomas  Ditson. 
Jonatlian  Richardson. 
Benj.  D arrant. 
John  Durrant,  Ters. 
Joseph  Patten. 
John  Parker. 
Andrew  Farmer. 
Jolin  Trull. 
W"\  Bowrs. 
W'".  French,  Ters. 
2d  seat.  Front  Gallerie  : 
W"".  Medoel  [McDowell]. 
Josiah  Crosbey,  Junr. 
James  Laws. 
Jacob  Mannino'. 
Arthur  Mullin. 
John  Willoughbey. 
Dan'.  Shed. 
Jona.  Hill,  Jun''. 
Josiah  Kemp. 
Roger  Toothaker,  Jun''. 
2d  seat,  side  Gallerie  : 
John  Dows. 
Tim  Farley.  Jun^. 
Joseph  Farley,  Jun''. 
James  Freeland. 
Joseph  Osgood. 
Sam'.  Hill,  quar's. 
Henry  Jeffts,  Jun''. 
Natt'.  Ranger. 
Seth  VVillson. 
Robert  Walker, 
Sam'.  Blanchard. 
Sam'.  Crosbey. 
Jona.  Danfo]-th,  Jun"". 
Thomas  Davis. 
Josiah  Dutten. 
John  Hagott. 
Dan'.  Leavenston. 
Obediah  Sanders. 
David  Sanders. 
Joseph  Walker,  Jun"". 
Ezekicl  Walker. 
Uriah  Leanord. 
Benj.  Walker,  Jun''. 
Natt'.  Brown. 
Nathan  Crosbej'.  Jun'. 
Oliver  Crosbey. 
Jon*.  Crosbej'. 
Benj".  Dowse. 
In  ye  fore  seat  below  : 
Deac".  Davis'  wife. 
Deae".  Hill's  wife. 
Deac".  Abbott's  wife. 
Natt'.  Richardson's  and 
\ym  Mafiing's  wives  in 
ye  2<i  seat  below. 
Widow  Rogei'S,  3^  seat 
below;  Widow  Whit- 
ing, 3^'  
seat  below. 
The  question  of  a  colleague  for  the  pastor  came  before  the  town, 
1746-7,  March  3,  and  a  committee,  Benjamin  Tompson,  Esq.,  Capt. 
Thomas  Kidder,  and  Dea.  Joshua  Abbott,  was  appointed,  to  confer 
with  Mr.  Euggles.  The}'  reported  that  be  was  "very  free,"  and 
"desired  that  the  town  would  proceed  in  that  affaire."  Another 
committee,  of  seven,  was  then  directed  to  "desire  Mr.  Ruggles  to 
assis  with  them  in  calling  in  some  of  the  neighboring  ministers  to 
keep  a  Day  of  prayer,  to  seek  divine  direction  in  that  affaire."  Ou 
the  report  of  this  committee,  April  6,  the  question  arose,  whether 
' '  
the  Town  would  proceed  to  hear  any  Gen"  to  preach  upon  proba- 
tion," and  "it  passed  in  the  negative  by  a  great  majorit}'."  Plainly 
the  mind  of  the  town  was  made  up  as  to  the  call  to  be  given,  and  a 
j-oung  Harvard  graduate,  who  taught  the  school  in  1746,  had  won 
their  hearts.  It  is  not  in  evidence  that  the  proposed  "Day  of 
prayer"  was  held.  The  church  waived  its  legal  right  to  the  first 
vote  in  the  choice  of  a  pastor,  and,  "at  a  General  Town  Meeting," 
April  28:     "The  church  and  town  unanimously  voted  and  made 
 - 204 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORY.  181 
choyce  of  M"".  John  Chandler,  of  Andovev,  to  settle  in  the  work  of 
the  ministry  amongst  ns,  witli  the  Rev*^.  Mr.  Saranel  Rnggles,  our 
aged  Pastor."  They  promise  him,  "in  a  Reasonable  time,"  £600, 
old  tenor,  as  a  settlement,  and  a  salar\'  of  £200  while  Mr.  Rnggles 
was  able  to  carry  on  a  part  of  the-  work,  and  to  add  £100  more  after 
Mr.  Rnggles'  death.  The  answer  of  Mr.  Chandler  was  delaj'ed  for 
farther  negotiations.  He  asked  that  the  settlement  be  paid  in  two 
years,  and,  if  he  outlived  Mr.  Rnggles,  that  the  ministrj'  land,  which 
was  west  of  Concord  River,  might  be  sold,  and  "laid  out  either  for 
mowing  or  pasturing  within  half  a  mile  of  the  meeting  house,"  he 
to  have  the  improvement  of  it,  during  his  ministrj',  in  either  location. 
Tiie  town  consented.  But  the  uncertain  value  of  the  currency'  still 
embarrassed  them.  To  meet  the  difficulty  the  town  voted  that  the 
salary  should  be  at  a  standard  of  twelve  shillings  a  bushel  for  Indian 
corn  and  sixteen  shillings  for  rye.  Mr.  Chandler  proposed  instead, 
that  the  standard  be  between  ten  and  twelve  shillings  for  corn  and 
thirteen  and  fifteen  for  rj'e,  and  to  this  the  town  assented.  They 
also  offered  him  £20  a  year  for  "  fewel  for  his  fire,"  but,  "it 
appearing  that  it  was  more  accommodating  to  Mr.  Chandler  to  have 
wood  in  the  stead  of  it,"  they  promised  him  twenty  cords  of  wood 
annually.     The  salary  was  payable  semi-annually. 
When  tliese  engagements  were  embodied  in  a  formal  covenant, 
the  way  was  prepared  for  Mr.  Chandler's  ordination,  which  occurred, 
1747,  October  21.  "Eight  churches  came  together  to  carry  on  the 
solemnity.  The  Rev'^  Mr.  Rogers,  of  Littleton,  began  with  prayer  ; 
the  Rev"*  Mr  James  Chandler,  of  Rowley,  [brother  of  the  candidate,] 
preached,  from  John,  iii  :  
11  ;  the  Rev**  Mr.  Phillips,  of  Andover, 
gave  the  charge  and  also  added  an  exhortation  to  the  people,  wherein 
he  pressed  upon  'em  the  particular  duties  of  a  people  towards  their 
minister  ;  and  the  Rev'^  Mr.  Bowes,  of  Bedford,  gave  the  Right 
hand  of  fellowship.  No  objections  were  laid  in  against  their  pro- 
ceeding in  
the  ordination  b}'  an}'  person  whatsoever." 
An  ordination  was  a  great  event  in  those  days.  In  preparation 
for  this  the  town  appointed  a  committee  to  "make  suitable  and 
descent  provition,  at  the  Town's  cost,  for  Mr.  Chandler's  ordination, 
at  one  or  two  places,  for  all  the  ministers  and  messengers,  and 
IMr.  Chandler's  Relations,  and  for  steudants  of  harvard  CoUedg, 
according  to  their  best  prudance."  The}'  also  reserved  the  front 
seats  for  members  of  the  council,  and  the  front  seats  in  the  gallery 
for  the  church  members. 
 - 205 - 
182  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
Mr.  Ruggles'  work  was  nearly  done,  and  his  colleague  and 
successor  was  installed  none  too  soon.  He  died,  1749,  March  21  ; 
and  the  town  voted  £150,  old  tenor,  for  the  expenses  of  his  funeral. 
A  formal  and  soleitin  renewal  of  covenant  was  made  soon  after 
Mr.  Chandler  was  ordained.  The  articles  of  faith  then  used  and 
recorded  have  been  given  above.  Whether  this  was  the  first  form 
of  confession,  or  an  earlier  confession  was  then  repeated,  and,  if  so, 
whether  with  or  without  change,  we  are  not  told. 
The  pastorate  of  Mr.  Chandler  began  under  bright  auspices,  and 
for  eleven  ^-ears  was  prosperous.  He  was  a  man  of  good  ability, 
and  the  church  was  united  and  happy  in  his  ministry.  But  a  cloud 
arose,  and  the  end  came  soon  and  in  trouble.  It  is  due  to  the  truth 
of  history  that  the  facts,  condensed  from  many  pages  of  the  church 
record,  be  stated.  Mr.  Chandler's  wife  died,  1757,  June  28.  It  is 
charitable  to  suppose  that  grief  for  her  loss  and  the  absence  of 
her  good  influence  ma}'  have  prepared  the  way  for  a  measure  of 
indulgence  in  "spiritual"  consolations  which  were  not  from  above. 
That  he  kept  the  means  for  such  indulgence  the  contents  of  his 
cellar,  as  shown  by  his  inventor^',  reveal,  though  it  is  doubtful  if  he 
had  more  than  the  best  of  his  neighbors.  He  was  married,  1759, 
January  18,  to  Elizabeth  White,  of  Haverhill,  a  cousin  of  his  first 
wife.  Soon  after  the  church  record  tells  us  :  "Feb.  18.  The  Sac'. 
omitted,  by  reason  of  some  being  dissatisfied  at  y*"  chearful  behavior 
of  y"  pastor  at  _y*^  
bringing  of  a  second  Wife  into  his  house,  when  a 
large  concourse  of  people  assembled.  The  Pastor  sta3-ed  the  church 
after  services  and  gave  leave  for  the  congregation  to  stop  also  ;  and 
represented  his  case  to  'em  in  what  he  then  apprehended  its  just 
light,  upon  which  they  A'oted  to  pass  over  the  offense,  sit  down 
satisfied,  and  that  the  Sac''  should  be  administered  to  'em  by  the 
Pastor  the  next  Lords  Day."  This  record,  like  the  long  account 
of  following  troubles,  stands  in  the  very  neat  handwriting  of  Mr. 
Chandler  himself,  who  shows  througiiout  a  frankness  and  apparent 
honesty  which  wins  respect  and  sympath}-  for  his  weakness. 
The  trouble,  however,  continued,  and  was  too  deep  to  be  so  easily 
disposed  of;  and,  in  August,  articles  of  complaint  were  laid  before 
a  Council,  with  specifications  of  four  cases  in  which  the  pastor's 
weakness  had  been  manifested.  The  Council  met,  September  18, 
consisting  of  the  First  and  Second  Churches  in  Cambridge  and  that 
in  Chelmsford.  They  found  three  of  the  charges  sustained  ;  but,  in 
view  of  a  confession,  to  be  read  to  the  church  and  congregation, 
 - 206 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORY.  183 
the}'  recommended  its  acceptance,  and  that  "whatever  hath  been 
orievous  and  ofl'ensive  in  y"  Pastor"  be  overlooked.  The}'  proceed 
to  a  frank  and  faithful  statement  to  Mr.  Chandler,  and  appeal  to  him 
tenderly  to  free  himself  from  reproach  by  a  sober  and  godly  life,  and 
remind  the  church  of  the  good  character  he  has  maintained  among 
them  "till  of  late,"  and  that  "the  sin  which  he  has  fallen  into  is 
what  you  have  not  *  so  much  as  suspected  him  of  till  y^  last 
winter"  ;  for  which  reason  they  urge  the  members  of  the  church  to 
pray  and  strive  together  for  the  recovery  and  usefulness  among  them 
of  one  who  might  be  so  good  a  pastor.  But  the  evil  could  not  be 
exorcised,  and,  1760,  June  5th,  another  Council  convened  and  the 
church  with  them,  when  a  show  of  hands  so  "discouraged  the 
pastor  as  to  tarrying,"  that  by  advice  of  the  Council  he  tendered  his 
resignation  and  it  was  accepted.  Two  years  later  Mr.  Chandler  died 
here,  at  the  early  age  of  thirty-eight. 
This  sad  stor}'  does  not  stand  alone.  Concord  had  a  similar 
experience.  Nor  need  the  occasional  lapse  in  this  way  of  a  minister 
surprise  us.  "When  every  cellar  \vas  stored  with  cider,  and  good 
Deacon  Abbott  would  be  as  sure  as  an}'  other  to  invite  the  minister 
to  drhik  whenever  he  called,  the  wonder  would  l)e  if  here  and  there 
one  did  not  stumble.  But,  while  we  give  sympathy  to  the  unfortu- 
nate young  pastor,  the  bright  morning  of  whose  ministry  was  so 
soon  and  sadl}'  overcast,  we  may  also  with  joy  set  up  a  waymark 
of  progress,  and  deny  tliat  "the  former  days  were  lietter  than 
.these." 
 - 207 - 
CHAPTER  X. 
GLEANINGS  FROM  THE  RECORDS. 
The  limits  of  this  volume  permit  but  meagre  \use  of  the  earl}' 
Records  ;  and  beyond  the  selections  on  special  topics,  in  other 
chapters,  we  can  only  glean  items  here  and  there.  The  following 
explains  the  origin  of  our  first  and  admirable  "Book  of  Grants": 
"12,  10,  1665.  The  Town  did  agree  with  Jonathan  Danforth,  to 
collect  and  transcribe  all  former  grants  and  records  of  lands,  granted 
to  perticular  persons  by  the  Towne  of  Billerica,  into  another  booke, 
so  farre  as  perticular  persons  interested  therein  shall  desire  it ;  and 
the}'  agree  that  the  said  Jonathan  shall  for  his  laboure  have  fourpence 
for  every  perticular  grant  or  record  that  shall  be  thus  transcribed 
by  him."  In  making  this  transcript  he  was  authorized,  conferring 
with  the  selectmen  and  proprietors  concerned,  to  "put  an  eshew  to 
all  difficult  things,"  or  adjust  questions  and  conflicts  of  lines  and 
bounds.  When  the  work  was  done,  "27,  9"%  1666,  The  Townsmen, 
with  much  pains  and  care  having  examined  the  same,  comparing 
them  with  the  originall  copies,  The  Towne,  by  this  deliberate  act  of 
theirs,  allow,  approue,  owne,  confirme,  &  establish  y''  same,  to  stand 
and  remaine  as  legall  and  ethentic.  And,  by  this  act  of  theirs,  do 
disallow,  disowne,  and  make  a  nullit}'  of  whatever  record  or  grant 
has  been  recorded  in  y^  old  towne  booke,  or  in  any  other  scroule  or 
paper,  so  farre  (and  no  farther)  as  the}'  artj  in  any  wise  repugnant 
and  contrary  to  what  is  recorded  in  y''  new  towne  booke." 
The  Restoration  of  Charles  II,  in  1660,  in  England,  displacing 
the  Commonwealth,  gave  much  anxiety  to  the  Puritan  Commonwealth 
here,  and  its  enemies  used  the  opportunity,  striving  to  produce 
embarrassment  and  trouble.  It  was  represented  that  the  people 
were  dissatisfied  ;  and,  to  repel  this  charge,  man}'  of  the  towns 
presented  addresses  to  the  General  Court.  The  following  is'  that  of 
Billerica  : — 
 - 208 - 
GLEANINGS  FROM  THE  RECORDS.  185* 
'•^To  the  Honavd  Generall  Courts  held  at  Boston,  October  19,  1664  :^ 
"'The  Humble  Representation  of  the  Inhabitants,  both  ffieenien  and 
others,  of  the  Town  of  Billerica,  Humbly  Shevveth  :  That  whereas  we 
have  vnderstood  that  there  have  bin  complaints  made  vnto  our  Soveraigne 
Ivord  the  king  concerning  our  dissatisfaction  in  this  coUony  with  the 
present  Government,  we  whose  Names  are  subscribed,  tlie  Inhabitants  of 
the  Towne  above  mentioned,  being  not  a  little  Sensible  what  occation  of 
Discouragement  would  be  laid  upon  j^ou,  and  what  reproach  and  blame 
would  Justly  fall  vpou  vs,  if  such  complaints  should  be  true,  have  thought 
it  our  dutj^  (both  for  the  vindicating  of  our  owne  Innocency  and  for  the 
promoting  of  anything,  in  an  orderly  way,  which  may  tend  to  the 
incouraging  of  your  hearts  and  strengthening  of  your  hands,  in  the 
discharge  of  your  great  jtrust)  to  testify  vnauinujusly  that  Ave  doe  Rest 
Satisfied  in  the  present  Government,  and  that  we  have  cause  to  bless  God 
for  our  i^ast  and  present  pretious  and  peaceable  enjoyments,  desireing  that 
God  would  make  you  farther  Instrumental  for  the  continuing  of  our 
mercjes  and  pl'iveleges.  both  civil  and  ecclisiasticall.  to  his  honour  and  the 
good  of  vs  and  our  posterity.  And  we  doe  reingage  ourselves  and  promise 
(by  the  help  of  God)  to  be  faithful,  obedient,  and  servicable  (to  our  vtmost 
power)  to  the  present  Authority  (so  long  and  orderly  established  by  patent 
amongst  vs)  in  all  things,  according  to  God,  as  by  duty,  equity',  or  oath 
wee  are  bound  therevnto  ;  thus  hoping  that  this  our  Aplycation  vnto  yoiu* 
selves  shall  be  accepted  as  a  testimony  of  our  vnfeigned  fidelity  and 
sincere  Aftection  to  y'"  selves  and  to  the  good  of  this  comon  wealth,  wee 
comit  you  to  him  who  is  Able  to  direct  you  in  all  the  weighty  matters  you 
have  in  hand  and  remaine  y's  in  all  humble  observance. 
•'John  Parker.  Wllm  Chamberlain.  Nathanell  Hill. 
William  Tay.  Ralph  Hill.  AVille  Haille. 
George  ftarley.  Simon  Crosbee.  James  Patterson. 
Tliomas  fi'oster.  John  Durant.  Benjamin  Paiker. 
James  Kider.  John  Marshall.  John  Rogers,  jun''. 
Jonath  :  Danforth.     Joseph  Thompson.     Roger  Toothackar. 
John  Sheldon.  Sanuiell  Chaui5aies.   Sanuu^ll  Kemp. 
_  William  Hamlet.        Thomas  Willis.  John  Trull. 
■  Jolin  Rogers.  Thomas  Paton.  John  Poulter. 
^k  iohn  brackie.  Josepli  ftrench.  Jonathan  Hill. 
^K  Henery  Jeifts.  Steven  Willis.  Samuell  Trull."' 
^Hb  Peter  Bracket.  Simon  Bird. 
If  these  signatures  were  autographs  this  paper  would  have  added 
interest,  but  nearly  all  are  in  the  handwriting  of  Parker  or  Danforth. 
Those  of  Ralph  Hill  and  the  Brackets  are  probablj'  exceptions,  and 
possibly  one  or  two  others. 
The  town  guarded  carefully  the  disposition  of  "rights,"  held  by 
individuals,  in  the  common  land.     Its   consent  was   necessarj^,  by 
I  
MSS.  in  possession  of  G.  M.  Elliott,  of  Lowell. 
 - 209 - 
186  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
agreement  December,  1606,  to  aii.y  sale  or  gift  to  a  person  not  an 
inhabitant,  or  even  to  a  resident,  except  that  a  person  holding  more 
than  a  ten-acre  right  might  so  transfer  a  five-acre  right  or  less. 
And  parents  could  give  rights  to  their  children  if  the  town  on 
request  declined  to  do  so.  Timber  cut  on  the  "commons"  was 
after  a  short  time  to  l^e  free  to  any  person,  "in  case  such  timber  be 
not  hewen,  or  riven,  or  fier  wood  cut  fit  for  carting"  ;  and,  in  IGGG, 
all  were  forbidden  "to  cut  an}'  green  trees  upon  y'"  comans  for  fier 
wood  for  the  space  of  two  years,"  upon  penalty  of  two  shillings  per 
tree,  large  or  small. 
"24,  4"%  67.  The  selectmen,  meeting  at  shawshin  house,  did 
there  receive  of  the  towne  stock  which  was  in  sarg"'  Parker's  hand"  : 
68  lbs.  of  powder,  at  £6,  16s.,  bullets  and  lead,  5S  lbs.,  and  match, 
50  lbs.  This  was  ten  clajs  after  Mr.  Parker's  death,  and  the  place 
was  of  course  at  his  residence,  and  this  record  proves,  in  comparison 
with  early  usage  (see  ante.  p.  7),  that  more  than  one  place  w^as 
known  as  Shawshin  House. 
"26,  6'",  69.  The  town  did  order  &  impower  the  selectmen  in 
being  to  procure  a  fjxt  beast  (with  some  of  the  townes  land)  and 
send  it  to  ]Mr.  Davie  as  from  the  towne,  ly  way  of  thankfulness  for 
his  good  service  for  the  towne."  The  gentleman  thus  rewarded  was 
Mr.  Humphrey  Davy,  of  Boston,  who  had  represented  the  town  in 
the  General  Court,  1666-69.  Two  months  later:  "By  vertue  of  y" 
former  order.  The  selectmen  bought  a  fatt  beast  of  John  Dunkin  & 
agreed  Avitli  him  to  give  him  land  for  it."  He  was  to  drive  the 
animal  to  Boston  and  present  it  to  Mr.  Dav}',  and  was  to  receive 
twenty  acres,  if  he  had  choice  of  location,  or  twenty-fiA'e  acres,  if 
the  selectmen  laid  it,  ' '  
as  the}'  Judge  maj*  be  most  advantage  for  y*^ 
town."     The  result  is  given  in  the  grant  to  Dunkin  elsewhere. 
The  following  gives  an  idea  of  the  eai-ly  life  here  :  "11,  9,  70. 
Thomas  Richardson,  Ijeing  convicted  of  taking  two  loads  of  cedar 
from  our  swamps  and  transporting  y"  same  out  of  town  contrar}-  to 
our  towne  orders,"  is  fined  thirty  shillings,  which  Thomas^  Foster 
paid  for  him,  he  agreeing  to  build  twentj'-two  poles  of  "four-raile 
fence"  for  Foster.  Benjamin  Parker  and  Samuel,  Manning  incurred 
similar  fines,  as  did  John  Tidd  and  Robert  Eames,  of  Woburn. 
The  latter  promised  to  pay  his  fine  ' '  
in  shoes  at  James  foules  at 
Woburn,"  and  the  former  in  "cooper's  ware."  Plainly  currenc}' 
was  scarce  in  those  days,  and  barter  in  some  form  the  condition  of 
most  pa^'ments.     March  27,  1671,  "Mr.  Whiting  is  granted  liberty 
 - 210 - 
GLEANINGS  FROM  THE  RECORDS.  187 
to  take  in  a  peece  of  comou  land  by  Tliomas  Button's  fence,  by 
y''  swamp  side,  to  make  a  garden  of  for  several  3eers,  but  not 
for  propriety."  In  4670  one  share  of  the  minister's  rate  of  John 
Stearns,  who  had  died,  was  laid  upon  Thomas  Duttoii,.Jiiid  we  ma}' 
infer  that  Mr.  Button  had  purchased  Mr.  Stearns'  land. 
The  question  of  the  basis  of  rates  was  now  seriously  agitating 
the  town.  The  earl}'  method  {see  p.  .55)  was  to  la}'  assessments 
upon  the  "rights"  or  fractional  parts  thereof.  But  progress  and 
changes,  as  some  prospered  and  others  did  not,  would  make  this 
basis  very  unequal.  The  subject  was  debated  in  1668,  but  a  change 
required  substantial  unanimity,  to  which  some  were  not  ready  to 
consent.  In  1671  the  town  voted,  that  all  public  charges  for  the 
future  should  be  borne  by  persons  and  estates,  and  divisions  of  land 
be  made,  one-half  in  the  same  way,  the  other  half  by  "rights,"  as 
formerly.  But  the  agitation  was  not  ended,  and,  "4,  10,  72.  It 
was  agreed  to  desire  the  help  of  Lieut.  Hinchman,  Sargent  James 
Parker,  &  Mr.  Jn".  Smedley,  to  give  us  their  advice  in  these  our 
difficulties."  This  committee  came  as  requested  Becember  li),  and 
the  next  day  the  town  was  called  together,  and  every  person  present, 
thirty-flve  in  all,  signed  an  "order"  for  the  future."  They  recite 
the  agitation  and  great  difficulty  which  lay  "in  either  peaceably 
maintaining  our  wa}'  of  raising  our  publick  charges,  agreed  upon  in 
our  first  foundation  order  ;  or  getting  in  to  another  way  with  such  a 
vnanimous  consent  as  might  tend  to  righteousness  and  peace"  ;  and 
refer  to  meetings  held,  and  propositions  of  a  "major  part"  to  which 
some  would  not  assent.  The  "order"  proceeds:  "That  whereas, 
acording  to  our  first  agreement  in  giving  out  our  accommodations, 
all  pul)lick  charges  was  laid  vpon  euery  alotment  acording  to  the 
proportion  of  their  grants,  whither  a  ten,  eight,  six,  five,  or  three 
acre  lots,  and  that  whither  persons  were  resident  in  the  town  or  not. 
*  Now,  for  y*^  easing  some  persons  amongst  us  and  proprietors  with 
us  (tho  not  inhabitants  at  p''sent),  who  complain  of  their  burthen  in 
y^  former  way,  The  Town  do  agree  that  for  the  space  of  three  years 
next  ensuing,  from  y"  first  of  May  last  past,  we  will  lay  two  third 
parts  of  our  publick  charges  in  the  town,  both  civill  &  ecclisiastical, 
vpon  persons  &  estates  in  the  town  acording  to  the  valluation  of  y" 
country  rate,  and  the  other  third  part  vpon  y*"  alotments  or  first 
grants,  acording  to  y"  first  foundation  order,  whither  persons  be 
2  Grants,  1, 171. 
 - 211 - 
188  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
resident  or  not  ;  and  that  after  these  three  years  be  expu-ed,  the 
major  part  of  the  inhaljitants,  agreeing,  ni:iy  alter  this  way,  which 
being  orderly  done  and  entered  in  their  town  book,  this  agreement 
shall  be  nullified  ;  otherwise  the  town  shall  continue  in  this  way." 
The  names  of  Ilamlet  and  Kemp  are  not  signed  to  this  ordei'.  In 
Noveml)er,  1685,  the  town  agreed,  "that  from  this  day  forward  all 
pHviledges  shall  cease  to  pay  Towne  charges." 
The  Cambridge  "rights"  to  land  in  Billerica  were  not  yet  all 
purchased,  and  mone}'  received  by  the  town  was  oc-casionally  appro- 
priated for  
this  purpose.  In  1672  a  rate  for  the  same  object  was 
levied  equal  to  half  the  minister's  rate.  For  the  "encouragement"  . 
of  those  who  paid  this  tax  leave  was  given  to  take  cedar  for  a 
thousand  shingles  for  each  ten  shillings  paid,  while  those  who  refused 
were  to  be  "abated"  so  much  in  the  next  division  of  land.  As  a 
farther  measure  of  relief  from  the  burd?n  of  Cambridge  claims  the 
selectmen  were  ordered,  "29,  10"',  1673,"  in  case  they  have  an^' 
encouragement,  "to  petition  >•*  generall  Court  for  a  further  grant  of 
lands,  to  help  us  cleare  those  entanglements."  This  they  did  in 
May,  1674,  asking  for  one  thousand  acres  in  the  wilderness,  but 
receiving  a  negative.  The  petition  was  repeated  the  next  year  and 
encouragement  given,  as  they  had  liberty  "to  find  out  a  parcel  of 
waste  land  and  present  to  the  next  session  of  y'  C*ourte,  who  will  l)e 
read}'  to  accommodate  them  so  farr  as  may  hv  done."  But  the 
disturbances  of  "Phillips  War"  probably  delayed  the  matter,  and  it 
was  not  until  1681,  October,  that  Billerica  appears  again  at  Court, 
describing  "two  parcels,  one  on  the  .Souhegan  and  another  next 
Nathaniel  Walker's  farm,  north-west  of  (Iroaten,"  as  suiting  their 
needs.  The  magistrates  "consent,"  but  "the  deputies  consent  not," 
and  the  town  failed  to  obtain  the  aid  it  sought."  Forty  years  later, 
1716,  November  12,  the  town  voted,  that  "a  petition  be  preferred 
to  the  General  Court  for  the  land  that  was  asked  for  in  the  j-ear 
1676"  ;    
but  the  Court  was  still  deaf  to  their  ap[)e;d. 
A  record  is  found,  "27,  11,  72," -like  many  of  similar  tenor 
afterwards:  "Simon  Crosbee  is  chosen  to  keep  a  house  of  public 
entertainment."  The  price  of  corn  was  fixed,  in  1672,  thus:  "the 
towne  do  order,  that  y^  prise  of  corne  for  y"  rates  to  be  paid  at  tliis 
year  (the  court  not  having  set  y*  same)  shall  be  paid  at :  indian 
corne  three  shillings  p  bushell,  and  other  graine  at  y*  prise  y''  Court 
set  it  at  last  3^ear  ;  only  in  case  that  afterward  it  shall  appear  that 
indian  corne  is  not  worth  four  pence  p  bushell  more  than  it  was 
 - 212 - 
GLEANINGS  FROM  THE  RECORDS.  189 
3'^  last  year,  in  y"  market  in  generall,  then  ever}^  man  shall  be 
responsible  to  their  severall  rates  four  pence  p  bush  :  and  have  it 
added  to  each  man  his  just  proportion  3-^  next  j-ear." 
The  brothers  Champney  had  returned,  after  a  few  3-eai-s'  residence 
here,  to  Cambridge,  and  serious  differences  had  arisen  with  them 
about  taxes,  the  arrears  amounting  to  £8.  These  were  adjusted  in 
1673,  the  town  accepting  an  offer  from  Daniel  Champney,  who  "did 
tender  to  resigne  up  all  future  claims  of  priviledg  in  reference  to 
what  was  granted  to  his  father  b3'  our  towne  upon  y^  resignation  of 
his  lot  of  three  hundred  and  fifty  acres,  sealed  in  our  great  deed, 
and  to  give  3-^  towne  a  full  title  to  that  fift3'  acre  lot  that  was  by 
Camliridg  granted  to  Thomas  Bridge,  and  to  pay  y"  towne  in  hand 
twenty  shillings  by  Simon  Crosbee  &  so  quitt  scores." 
The  "  swinej'ards"  were  important  offlcers  in  the  early  life  of  the 
town,  and  in  1674  a  full  page  of  record  is  devoted  to  rules  b3-  which 
they  were  to  be  governed.  Yokes,  to  be  sufficient,  must  be  "in 
length  perpendicular,  three  inches  below  the  bottom  sole  and  six 
inches  above  the  cratch  or  upper  sole,  and  three  inches  wide  outside 
on  each  side  of  y''  crosse  peices."  And  every  swine  was  to  be 
"ringed  in  the  Nose,  either  with  one  sufficient  ring  in  y^  middle  of 
y'^  
nose  or  else  with  two  rings  within  half  an  inch  one  of  3*^  other." 
The  penalty  for  neglect  was  to  be  sixpence  each,  one-half  of  which 
the  officer  had  for  his  troul)le,  and  if  he  could  not  fiud  the  owner  the 
animal  was  to  be  imi)Ounded  and  the  officer  had  the  whole  fine. 
Items  concerning  the  "diet"  and  care  of  "old  Stephen  Fisher" 
recur  often  from  1668  to  1682;  and  aid  was  occasionall3-   given  to 
others.  "17,  9'",  76.  John  Durrant's  famil3-  being  in  an  aflflicted 
condition,  it  is  agreed  that  they  shall  have  some  relief  from  the  town, 
&  do  desire  &  order  Samuel  Manning  to  see  to  their  necessitves  & 
relieve  their  extremities,  so  farr  as  he  can  obtain  anything  suitable  of 
y*' neighl)ours,"  and  those  contributing  were  to  receive  an  allowance 
•in  the  next  town  rate. 
The  first  record  of  tithing-meu  appears  : — 
'SS.  8"',  77.  Aeonling  to  y  order  of  y  generall  Court,  The  Towne 
was  divided  in  severall  parts  and  tithing  men  appointed  aeording  to  law. 
''Joseph  AValker  tithing  man  &  vnder  his  care  are 
Michael  Bacon  Serj.  foster  Thomas  Richardson 
Thouuis  Osban  Joseph  foster  Tliomas  Ross 
Tiiuoth  :  Brooks  Obedia  perry  and  their  families. 
Joseph  freneh  Widdow  kitteridge 
 - 213 - 
190  illSfORt    Oi*   BlLLEfttCA* 
"George  fFavley  tithlug  man  &  vnder  his  care 
Job.  laine  Jonafhu  Hill  Will"'  Charaberline 
?*rath.  Hill  Samuel  farley  And  their  familief?. 
Serj  Hill  Lt.  W">  ffreuch 
"Serj  Tompson  titliing  man  &  vnder  his  care 
Corpi.  marshall  Jacob  Hamlet  Nathaniel  'i'ay 
Jacob  french  ( 'orporall  french  AVill'"  Hamlet 
Peter  Bracket  James  ffrost  &  their  families. 
Simon  Crosbee 
"Richard  Hassell  tithing  man  &  vnder  his  inspection 
ye  Rever"'!.  INIr.  Whiting  John  Baldwin  goldin  more 
Thomas  pattin  Daniel  Shed  Sen''  John  Shed 
John  Rogers  Sen''  Samuel  ffrost  and  their  faniilyes. 
Jonathn  Danforth  widdow  kidder 
"Samuel  Manning  tithing  man  &  vnder  his  inspection 
James  paterson  Samuel  Trull  John  Durrant 
John  Sanders  Daniel  Shed  Jun''  John  Dunkin 
Thomas  Wilkinson  John  Trull  John  Rogers  Jun'^ 
John  Bracket  Henery  JeiflFs  Thomas  Dutton  Sen"" 
and  their  families." 
These  groups  of  families  are  b}'  neighborhood  ;  the  first  southeast 
of  the  village,  the  second  southwest,  the  third  east  of  and  partly  in 
the  centre,  the  fourtli  in  the  centre,  and  the  last  nortli.  The  omission 
of  Carrier,  Daniel,  Farmer,  and  Toothaker  is  worth^^  of  note.  Mr. 
Daniel  had  probably  returned  to  England,  and  Mr.  Farmer  was  in 
Woburn.  Another  list  is  given  in  1679  in  which  Simon  Crosby  takes 
the  place  of  Joseph  Tompson  and  John  Sheldon  that  of  Richard 
Hassell,  as  titbing-men,  and  the  names  appear  of  James  Butler, 
Edward  Farmer,  Peter  Fassitt,  George  Grimes,  Daniel  Mackginnis, 
David  Meades,  John  Stearns,  Roger  Toothaker,  and  John  Whitticur. 
In  1682  the  last  list  is  given.  James  Frost  and  Jacob  French  take 
the  place  of  the  two  last-named  tithiug-men  ;  and  new  names  are 
those  of  Thomas  Carrier,  Benjamin  Muzz}',  and  John  Wilson. 
Tithiiig-men  are  mentioned  occasionally,  but  their  appointment  and 
lists  of  families  are  not  recorded. 
An  important  early  custom  was  the  annual  summons  to  brush- 
cutting  by  the  highways.  In  1677  the  record  mentions  the  summons 
b}'  squadrons,  the  work  being  in  charge  of  Sergeant  Hill,  Sergeant 
Foster,  Corporal  French,  Sergeant  Tompson,  Jonathan  Danforth, 
and  Samuel  JManning.  Some  names  appear  in  this,  but  not  in  the 
tithing-men's  list  of  same  date,  as  Thomas  Carrier  and  "his  man 
John  Levistone,"  Edmund  Chamberline,  Simon  Black,  Daniel  Bl}^, 
 - 214 - 
CfLEANtNGS    FROM   THE    EECORDg.                     191 
Isaac  and  Samuel  Stearns.  The  east  squadron  was  to  woi"k  one  da}' 
at  home  and  "3-^  2"''  day  vp  at  towne."  And  the  condition  of  things 
"at  towne *^  
is  more  vividly  suggested  b}'  the  fact  that  Danforth's 
men  were  to  do  their  work  "•between  his  house  and  y*^  meeting 
house." 
The  "oath  of  fidelity"  was  administered  as  follows:  — 
''1606,  April  23.     before  Capt  Gookin 
Peter  Bracket. 
John  Bracket. 
Tliouias  Patten. 
Royer  Toothaker. 
Daniel  Shed.  Jun''. 
Aaron  Jaquish. 
''4,  12"\  77.     before 
Jonathn  Danforth  Jun"^ 
James  Kklder 
Joliii  Kidder 
Epln-aiin  Kiddor 
Jolm  Jeiffs 
Thomas  AVilkiiison 
't^omas  Dutton 
Jolm  Dutton 
Thomas  Carrier 
John  Levistone 
Caleb  Farley. 
John  Rogers.  Jan. 
John  Dunkin. 
Hopestill  Foster. 
Ijoseph  Foster. 
John  Cbamberlin. 
their  cheife  officer 
Samuel  Stearns 
Isaac  Stearns 
Thomas  Rogers 
Xathaniel  Rogers 
Daniel  Rogers 
John  Shed 
Zachary  Shed 
Samuel  Shed 
Sanuiel  Farley 
John  Lane 
■'8.  7'",  1G81. 
^Ir  Samuel  AVhiting  Jun  Sanuiel  ^Manning  Jun'" 
Simon  Crosbee  Jun'"  John  Hinds 
John  Whittaker  Jun"^  Thomas  Care 
"18.  3™.  1085.     before  Jonath  Danforth  Sen^ 
Henery  Pellington. 
Jonathn  Hill. 
Peter  Scott. 
John  Smith. 
Sanuiel  Kemp. 
John  Poultcr. 
Edward  Tuder 
Josepli  A^'alker 
John  Durrant 
Isaac  Fox 
Timothy  Brooks  Jun'' 
Xathaniel  Tay 
John  Sanders 
Jacob  Hamlet 
Isaac  Chamberline 
William  Chamberline,  jr 
Edmond  Chamberline 
Enoch  Kidder 
Abraham  Chamberline 
Mr.  Oliver  Whiting 
George  Browne 
John  Baldwin 
Thomas  ifrost 
Thomas  Crosbee 
Joseph  Elliee 
John  Manning 
Caleb  Farley  Jun' 
Hugh  Didson 
Xathaniel  Patten 
Xathau  Shed 
Peter  Frederick  Subloon  Samuel  Danforth" 
Xathaniel  Stearns 
Steven  Kidder 
James  Kittredge 
Jacob  French  Jun' 
Thomas  Ross 
The  following  explains  itself:  — 
"19.  1,  1675  ^^e  received  an  order  from  y^  selectmen  of  Cambridg  to 
run  yf'  bounds  between  us,  on  y«  29  day  instant.  The  selectmen  sent  their 
order  back  again,  and  underwrlt  the  same  as  followeth  : 
"  'Gent'",  if  this  your  order  had  come  to  our  hand  one  day  sooner,  our 
towne  might  have  had  y'^  cognizance  of  it  &  have  impowered  us  to  have 
acted  in  it.  All  that  we  can  say  at  present  is  this  :  That  this  time  six  j-ears 
j'our  selves  sent  to  us  to  con)e  down  to  you,  to  come  to  an  agreement  about 
 - 215 - 
192  HISTORY   OF  BILLERICA. 
it.  We  attended  your  order,  and  made  two  Journeys  to  you  about  it.  We 
offered  to  chuse  a  committee  of  indifferent  men  to  determine  it  (which  was 
acording  to  our  articklcs  of  agreement),  but  you  refused  to  act,  for  want 
of  power  from  your  towne.  Wee  have  heard  notliing  from  you  since  that 
time,  tho  we  have  expected  it;  for  us  to  send  to  meet  at  y*"  
line  acording  to 
your  ordeuis  but  loss  of  time,  vntill  we  come  to  an  agreement  what  to  do 
and  wliere^to  run.  We  are  yet  ready  to  wait  upon  you  for  an  agreement 
about  it,  as  soon  as  you  please  ;  in  y^  mean  time  we  remain  your 
Humble  serv"'*,         Jonathan  Danforth, 
Joseph  Tompson, 
Samuel  Manning, 
'"Dated  20.  1"%  77-78.  Selectm.  of  Billerica. 
'"Pray  let  us  know  your  mind  by  a  line  or  two  from  your  selves.'" 
The  place  which  Harvard  College  had  in  the  hearts  and  plans  of 
the  Colon}'  is  shown  in  a  record,  "20,  10",  1678.  Simon  Crosbee 
was  appointed  to  collect  w'  was  3'et  behind  to  3'^  colledg  contribution 
&  to  transmit  it  to  y*"  colledg  oner  seers,  acording  to  y^  order  of  3*^ 
gen'.  Court."  A  letter,^  dated  "  14,  8,  1678,"  illustrates  the  subject 
more  full3'  : — 
"Mr.  laine:  This  day  Mr.  Whiting  and  the  Selectmen  made  choice  of 
yourself  to  returne  an  answ''  to  y^  Ilonr^i  generall  Court,  vpon  y"  18">  day 
of  this  instant,  (which  is  acoi'ding  to  their  order,)  in  reference  to  our 
contribution  to  y^  colledge  ;  and  our  Answer  which  we  desire  your  self  to 
returne  is  this  :  AYee  have  bin  very  diligent  to  gather  what  is  at  present 
to  be  had,  and  sent  it  into  Mr.  Manning,  of  Cambridg,  acording  to  y*^  court 
order;  and  there  yet  remaines  about  six  pound,  8  shill.  10  p;  y^  most  of  it 
we  hope  we  shall  get  as  soon  as  corne  is  marchantable  ;  we  have  faire 
promises  for  it;  but  some  psons  that  did  contribute  with  us  are  gone  to 
England  and  left  no  order  for  y'=  payment  of  it,  therefore  we  question 
whither  we  shall  ever  get  it ;  for  those  that  yet  are  in  this  country  (tho 
removed  out  of  our  towne).  we  shall  do  our  utmost  indeauor  to  gather  y^ 
same  spedily  as  maybee  ;  not  further  to  add  but  o"^  Humble  service  psented 
to  y*^  Hon'^''  Court,  we  take  leave,  earnestly  praying  for  y'^  Lord's  presence 
&  blessing  to  bee  with  you  in  all  yo"'  weighty  affairs. 
"In  y"  name  and  by  y'=  order  of  y"^ Reverend  [Mr.]  Samuel  AVhiting  & 
y^  rest  of  y^  selectmen. 
"Jonathan  Danforth." 
It  cost  these  plain  farmers  of  Billerica  something  in  their  povert3' 
to  raise  such  a  sum  for  the  College.  But  they  understood  its  impor- 
tance to  
them  and  their  children,  and  cheerfulh'  taxed  themselves  to 
do  their  part. 
3  
Loaned  by  George  M.  Elliott,  of  Lowell. 
 - 216 - 
GLEANINGS  FROM  THE  RECORDS.                     193 
In  1679  the  government  called  upon  the  towns  for  a  general 
statement  of  their  condition.     Billerica  answered:  — 
'•In  observance  of  a  warrant  from  ye  Hon'<i  Deputy  Goun"".  bearing- 
date  the  30"\  lO"".  1679,  our  answer  is  as  folio weth: 
'•  As  to  a  list  of  the  number  of  males  &  rateable  estate  in  our  towne, 
wee  have  sent  the  list  that  was  taken  the  last  August,  and  returned  from 
the  commissioners  meeting.  As  to  the  number  of  families,  there  is  al)out 
liuety  that  are  able  to  bare  vp  publick  charges  ;  there  is  more  of  the  aged, 
that  are  Helpless,  y^  widdows  &  poor  persons,  that  want  releife,  ten  in 
nuuiber,  which  is  all. 
■•As  to  ye  annual  alowance  to  our  reverend  paster,  our  agreement  is 
seventy  pounds  p  anni,  in  Country  pay.  as  for  scliools.  we  liave  no  gramei" 
schooles  ;  ensigne  Tompson  is  appointed  to  teach  those  to  write  &  read 
that  will  come  to  him  ;  also  severall  School  Dames.  As  for  tithing  men, 
we  haue  flue  in  number;  their  names  are  [as  above],  and  all  swoi-ne  to  the 
faithful  discharge  of  theire  seruice  acording  to  law.  As  for  j'oung  psons 
and  inmates,  we  know  of  none  amongst  us  but  are  orderly.  And  Ensign 
Joseph  Tomi^son  is  chosen  to  attend  the  Honourd  f'ourt.  acording  to  said 
warrant." 
The    tax-list^  above    mentioned 
polls,  and  amount  of  tax:  — 
exhibits    the    following   names, 
No. 
Seij  Hill 
Nath  Hill 
polls. 
£U  7Ti  ax. 
t; 
0 
Dan  ^Mackginnis 
Jam  Paterson 
No.  polls 
Tax. 
£0  3     2 
3     0 
Jonath  Hill                        —           2    (J                          Tho  Pattin                                       r>      0 
Hen  Jeifts 
(> 
0 
J  
no  Rogers  Sen'                             0      0 
Michael  Bacon                           6    6 
Tim  Brooks                   —          4    6                 Jno  Rogers  Jun'                           4    G 
Tho  Rogers                               2    0 
James  Butler                                4    0                  Tho  Ross                                      a      0 
Pet  Bracket 
John  Bracket 
0 
0 
Tho  Richardson 
Corpi  Shed                       2           6 
0 
0 
Simon  Crosbee              —          5    G 
Dan  Shed  Jun'' 
4    0 
W"'  Chainbeilain  Sen                 4    0                 John  Shed                                   2    0 
J"°  Chamberlain                        1    8                 Zack  Shed                                   1    9 
\ym  Chamberlain  jun                1    8                 John  Sanders                              3    0 
Tho  :  Carrier 
Mr.  Daniel 
Jonath  Danforth 
—          09  
9 
0 
10 
10 
John  Shildon 
Ens  Tompson 
Nath  Tay 
G 
4 
4 
G 
0 
0 
Corpi  ffrench 
—          3    0                 Sam  Trull                                         3    0 
Jacob  ffrench 
Patrick  ffacit 
Sam  ffrost 
James  Kidder 
Job  Laine 
Serjt  Marshall 
Sam'  Mailing 
2 
1 
5 
3 
4 
/ 
13 
4 
4 
4 
6 
6 
4 
0 
0 
0 
James  ffrost 
Serj  ffoster 
Geoi-g  ffarley 
Sam  ffarley 
Joseph  Walker 
Tho  Wilkinson 
Sum  total 
— 
3 
5 
4 
3 
5 
2 
£10  6 
0 
0 
6 
0 
0 
0 
1 
*  
New  England  Historical  and  Genealogical  Register.    Vol.  V,  p.  173. 
 - 217 - 
194                           HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA, 
One  other  early  list  has  hy  good  chance  been  preserved,  and  foi- 
comparison  here  follows:  —  ^ 
••Billerica. 
'•'list  of  y*^  Numbor  of  M;iles  and 
son,  Coniinssnr.  &  their  Selectmen,  y 
Henry  Aldin,  1  pson  &  estate  *01 
Michael  Bacon,  3  pson  &  est  12 
John  Baldwin.  2  pson  &  est  07 
jonath  Baldwin,  1  pson  &  est  02 
Peter  Bracket,  1  pson  &  est  04 
Simon  Crosbe,  2  pson  &  est  11 
Simon  Crosbe  Jun,  1  pson  01 
Tho  Crosbe,  1  pson  01 
Will™  Chamberlin,  1  pson  01 
Edmund  Chamberlin,  1  pson  & 
cow  01 
Capt  Danforth,  3  pson  &  est  12 
jonath  Danforth,  Jun,  1  p &   est  04 
John  Dunkin  his  estate  03 
Tho  Dutton,  Sen,  1  p  &  est  03 
Tho  Dutton,  Jun,  his  estate  04 
John  Dutton,  2  pson  &  estate  04 
Joseph  Ellice,  1  pson  &  est  03 
John  f  
rencli  his  estate  02 
Jacob  french.  3  pson  &  estate  12 
Patrick  Fassit,  2  pson  &  est  08 
Stephe  Farr,  1  pson  &  estate  03 
Sami'  frost,  2  pson  &  estate  07 
James  frost,  3  pson  &  estate  09 
Joseph  foster,  1  pson  &  estate  06 
Georg  farlee,  1  pson  &  estate  OG 
Sam'  farlee  his  estate  02 
Edw<*  farmar,  2  pson  &  estate  08 
Left  Hill.  3  pson  &  estate  12 
Nath  Hill,  4  pson  &  estate  13 
Jonath  Hill,  3  pson  &  estate  10 
Georg  Grimes,  1  pson  &  est  04 
Abra  Gorton,  1  pson  &  estate  03 
Heny  jefteson.  2  psons  &  est  06 
James  Kidder,  1  pson  &  estate  03 
Eaph  Kidder,  1  pson  &  estate  02 
Steph  Kidder.  1  pson  &  estate  02 
Enoch  Kidder.  1  pson  &  est      02 
Rateable  estate,  taken  by  Li(ft  Tomp- 
*■  
24  of  August,  168S. 
s       d 
John  Kitterage,  1  pson  &  est  03  06 
John  Lane,  1  pson  &  estate  13  02 
John  Levistone,  1  i)son  &  est  04  00 
Sam'  Manning.  Sen,  2  p  &  est  07  10 
Sam^  Planning,  Jun,  1  p  &  est  02  08 
John  Marshall,  2  pson  &  est  09  01 
James  i)attison.  2  pson  &  est  07  03 
Benj  Parker,  1  pson  &  estate  03  02 
Tho  Pattin,  4  pson  &  estate  13  09 
•  
Nath  Page,  2  pson  08  09 
Widdow  Rogers,  1  pson  &  est  03  10 
John  Rogers,  2  pson  &  estate  08  00 
Dani  Rogers.  1  pson  &  estate  02  02 
Nath  Rogers,  1  pson  &  estate  03  06 
Tho  Richison,  1  pson  &  estate  07  06 
Daniel  Shead,  1  pson  &  estate  05  01 
jolm  Shead,  1  pson  &  estate  03  09 
Zach  Shead,  1  pson  &  estate  03  02 
Sami  Shead.  1  pson  &  estate  02  02 
John  Sandern,  1  pson  &  estate  04  07. 
John  Sheldin  2  pson  &  estate  08  04 
Isack  Starns,  1  pson  &  estate  04  04 
Tho  Starns,  1  pson  &  estate  02  11 
Leift  Tompson,  3  pson  &  est  09  05 
Xath'  Tay,  1  pson  &  estate  03  06 
John  Trull,  2  pson  &  estate  06  05 
Sam"  Trull,  1  pson  &  estate  03  03 
Joseph  Walker,  1  pson  &  est  05  09 
John  Wilson,  1  pson  &  estate  07  01 
James  Kitterage,  1  pson  &  est  02  03 
Roburt  Sharp,  1  pson  &  estate  03  01 
Obe  Johnson,  1  pson  &  estate  02  03 
John  More,  1  pson  01  08 
Georg  Smith,  1  pson  &  cow  01  11 
Hugh  Ditson.  1  pson  01  08 
John  Parker,  1  p  &  one  cow    01  11 
Sum  totall                                    £19  11  05 
*  
New  England  Historical  and  Genealogical  Register.    Vol.  XXXI,  p.  303. 
 - 218 - 
I 
GLEANINGS  FROM  THE  RECORDS.  195 
These  lists  afford  interesting  information  and  comparisons.  The 
first  inchides  forty-seven  names  and  forty-five  polls  ;  the  later, 
seventy-three  names  and  one  hundred  and  three  polls,  marking  the 
comparatively  rapid  progress  of  nine  3"ears.  In  1679  it  snrj>rises 
us  to  find  that,  next  to  Mr.  Lane  and  Captain  Danforth,  Thomas 
Carrier  has  the  highest  list.  At  that  time  Mr.  Lane  is  the  only 
person  who  pays  more  than  half-a-pound  ;  in  1688  Mr.  Patten  is 
highest,  and  there  are  eight  who  pay  more  than  half-a-pound.  The 
absence  from  the  list,  in  1679,  of  the  names  of  Baldwin,  Kittredge, 
and  Stearns  is  observable,  while  that  of  1688  adds,  among  others, 
Ditson,  Dunkin,  Dutton,  Farmer,  (Trimes,  Page,  and  Wilson. 
In  May,  1680,  ule  selectmen  order  the  constable  to  "  forbare 
sitting  y'^  watch  at  y^  present,  and  vntill  there  appeared  more 
danger." 
In  November,  1680,  Samuel  Manning  was  granted  six  acres  of 
swamp,  on  condition  of  his  building  "a  good  and  sufficient  Damm 
or  Damms,  to  drowne  that  swamp  commonly  called  the  mill  swamp." 
He  was  to  raise  the  water  "one  foot  higher  than  at  present,"  and 
"to  keep  the  said  swamp  vnder  water  two  j-ears  together  from  the 
time  of  the  first  finishing  of  the  same,  and  to  maintain  the  wholl 
worke  of  damms,  slewces,  and  water  courses,  for  the  space  of  seven 
years  from  y^  first  finishing,  as  aforesaid  ;  and  to  keep  the  same 
vnder  water  all  the  winter  seasons,"  and  to  leave  all  in  good  repair 
at  the  end.  This  Mill  Swamp  was  on  Content  Brook  toward  the 
outlet  of  Long  Pond. 
Another  side  of  the  life  of  those  da}'s  is  seen  in  the  record, 
"16,  1,  1681,"  when  James  Speen,  Indian,  received  £8  for  four 
wolves'  heads,  brought  to  Constable  Sheldon. 
The  following  curious  record  occurs  :  "8,  11"',  82.  The  select- 
men at  
the  same  time  did  order,  that  whereas  Edmond  Chamberlain, 
b}'  order  of  j*"  
Count}-  Court,  *  was  ordered  to  submitt  himselfe  to 
y^  gouermeut  of  3-'^  select  of  this  towne,  the^'  do  order  him,  y* 
said  Edmond  Chamberlain,  to  live  with  his  master,  Joseph  Walker, 
for  y*  space  of  six  moneths  next  ensuing,  after  the  manner  of  a 
Journeyman,  to  attend  family  orders  and  gouerment  therein  acording 
to  law.  Also,  not  to  make  an}'  bargain  with  any  man  without  his 
master's  approbation  ;  and  at  the  end  of  six  moneths,  as  aforesaid, 
to  declare  to  the  selectmen  where  he  intends  to  reside  and  what 
courses  of  life  he  intends  to  lead,  and  his  said  master  engageth  to 
have  a  speciall  inspection  unto  his  s'^  seruant  in  y^  interim,  and  to 
 - 219 - 
196  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
inform  y*^  
seloctmeii  in  case  he  cannot  keep  him  to  good  order  and 
diligence."     We  may  liope  that  Chamberlain  profited  by  such  care. 
Jn  1084  a  measurement  of  Captain  Gookin's  farm  proved  that  it 
contained  one  hundred  and  fifty  acres  more  than  the  grant,  whicii 
was  five  hundred  acres.  It  was  then  owned  by  Robert  Thompson, 
Esq.,  and  the  town  sold  him  the  excess  on  pa_yment  in  his  behalf,  l)y 
AVilliam  Stoughtou,  Esq.,  of  £23  in  silver.  ''18,  10'",  1G84.  Lt. 
Tompson  laid  out  in  mone}'  at  Boston  eighteen  shillings.  G'',  for 
Roger  Toothakar's  family,  for  which  hee  bought  4  pair  of  shoes,  one 
pound  whalebone,  1  yard  farrindine  for  caps,  and  one  blue  Apron." 
In  1686,  "Simon  Crosbee,  who  formerly  hath  kept  a  house  of 
publick  entertainment,  doth  now  refuse  to  hold  it  any  longer,  & 
Nathaniel  Tay  being  desirous  to  take  it  up  is  alowed,  b}^  authority" 
of  the  selectmen,  to  do  so.  But  Mr.  Crosby  did  not  long  refuse  to 
entertain  the  public,  and  in  1688  the  selectmen  at  their  meetings  had 
"victuals  and  Drink"  of  him.  His  license  as  innkeeper  is  preserved 
at  Cambridge,  and  he  was  commonly  the  earl}-  landlord  of  the  town. 
The  charges  for  which  he  received  pay  are  now  amusing  and  remind 
us  of  Falstaff's  "intolerable  deal  of  sack,"  including  such  items  as 
"  cydar  14P,  liquour  2^";  "four  suppers  16",  drink  8""  ;  "2  potts 
of  cydar"  ;  "a  pot  of  rosted  cyder"  ;  "half  a  pint  of  rhnm,"  and 
many  like  these.  In  Januar}-,  1692-3,  a  meeting  was  held  with  the 
County  Commissioners,  Major  Thomas  Henchman  and  Mr.  Mather 
Johnson,  for  the  inspection  of  the  list.  One  day  they  had  "eight 
diners,  besides  our  drink,  00-04-00."  Another  da}' :  "we  had 
drink  before  dinner,  a  pynt  of  rum,  00-  01  ;  a  pot  of  cyder  and  jill 
of  Rhum,  00-00-05,  and  six  pots  of  cider,  00-01-00  ;  and  a  dinner 
for  eight  persons,  8  pence  per  man,  00  -  
Oo  -  
04  ;  and  eight  pots  of 
cider,  00-01-02."  The  list  made  up  at  this  meeting  included  111 
oxen,  valued  at  £2  per  ox  ;  220  cows,  valued  £1,  10s.,  per  cow  ;  77 
horses,  at  40s.  per  horse,  and  280  sheep,  at  £4  per  score.  The 
number  of  polls,  besides  the  superannuated,  was  92,  assessed  10s. 
each;    and  "cituations  &  stock"  were  assessed  "21,  05,  02." 
This  was  the  period  of  the  witchcraft  troubles  and  trials,  to 
which,  however,  the  Billerica  Records  make  no  allusion.  The  aid 
given  to  Toothaker's  family  betrays  his  neglect  of  them  while 
engaged  in  the  Salem  fooleries  ;  and  the  .deaths  of  Mrs.  Rebecca 
Chamberline  and  John  Durrent,  "in  y*"  prison  at  Cambridge,"  in 
September  and  October,  1692,  suggest  the  inference  of  Mr.  Farmer, 
that  the  charge  on  which  they  were  imprisoned  was  probably  witch- 
 - 220 - 
GLEANINGS  FROM  THE  RECORDS.  197 
craft.  A  Billerica  woman,  whose  later  residence  had  been  Andover, 
Mrs.  Martha  Carrier,  became  one  of  the  most  notable  of  the  sufferers, 
being  executed  at  the  same  time  with  the  Rev.  George  Burroughs. 
Her  bearing  at  the  trial  is  distinguished  by  courage  and  good  sense, 
and  must  challenge  the  admiration  of  those  who  examine  the  drearj^ 
literature  of  this  terrible  delusion.  Her  own  child  of  eight  testified, 
that  her  mother  made  her  "touch  the  book;  it  was  in  Andrew 
Fuller's  pasture,  Elizabeth  Johnson  was  thei'e  *  her  Aunt  Toothaker 
and  cousin,  when  she  was  baptized"  ;  and  Roger  Toothaker  bore 
swift  witness  in  language  too  filthy  for  quotation.®  That  good  men 
could  trust  such  testimony,  and  rest  such  action  upon  it,  is  an 
unexplained  marvel  of  human  credulity. 
The  following  official  document  belongs  to  this  period:  —  '' 
''To  ye  Constable  of  Billerica.  Greeting: 
•^  
Wee  command  you  to  warn  &  give  notice  unto  Capt.  Danforth,  John 
Rogers,  [and  others],  that  they  and  everj-  one  of  them  be  and  personally 
appear  at  y^  Court  of  Oyer  &  Terminer,  to  be  held  by  adjournment  at 
Salem,  on  Tuesday  next,  at  Ten  of  y"^  Clock  in  y^  morning,  there  to  testify 
ye  truth,  to  the  best  of  their  knowledge,  on  certain  Indictments  to  be 
exhibited  against  Martha  Carrier,  of  Andover.  And  hereof  they  nor  you 
are  to  fail  at  your  utmost  peril,  making  return  hereof  vnder  your  hand. 
Dated  in  Salem,  July  30,  1692.  &  in  ye  fourth  year  of  our  Reign. 
''Stephen  Sewall,  CZA-." 
James  Paterson  was  the  constable,  and  endorses  this  return  : 
"According  to  this  warrant  I  have  showed  it  to  Capt.  Danforth, 
and  his  answer  is,  that  he  can  say  nothing  in  y"  case  that  is  worth 
mentioning.  I  have  warned  John  Rogers  &  he  saith  he  will  attend, 
if  his  garrison  may  [be]  guarded  in  his  absence.  Billerica,  August 
1",  92."  Mr.  Rogers  had  been  near  neighbor  to  Mrs.  Carrier,  who 
lived  on  the  road  to  Wamesit,  at  North  Billerica,  but  he  does  not 
seem  to  have  been  anxious  to  testify'  against  her,  and  did  not  ;  and 
it  is  a  pleasure  to  find  that,  unlike  so  many  others,  Mr.  Danforth 
could  "say  nothing"  in  this  case.  This  sad  record  is  revived  in 
1710,  when  Mr.  Carrier  appealed  to  the  authorities  for  pa3'ment  of 
expenses  he  had  incurred.  At  the  demand  of  the'sherifli'  he  paid 
fifty  shillings,  and  prison  fees  to  the  keeper,  for  his  wife  and  four 
children.  £4,  16s.     His  "humble  request^  is  that  the  Attainder  may 
^  See  Upham'-s  S'aleiii  Witchcraft,  Vol.  II,  pp.  145  and  208  ;  and  MSS.  Deposition  in  the 
Archives  at  Salem. 
'  
See  Boivditch  Papers,  of  The  Massachusetts  Historical  Society,  No.  IS. 
*  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  CXXXV. 
 - 221 - 
198  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
be  taken  oft,"  and  that  he  ma}"  be  paid  the  loss  sustained,  £7,  6s. 
He  adds  :  "I  found  ray  wife  and  children  provisions  during  their 
imprisonment." 
In  February,  1692-3,  the  question  arose  of  '"dismissing  one 
theire  deputies,  whereas  the  Town  had  hither  unto  sent  down  two," 
and  the  town  did  dismiss  Joseph  Tompson  and  continued  Capt. 
Ralph  Hill  "in  that  service."  Records  of  the  annual  election  of  a 
deput}-  are  not  always  found,  and  none  appears  for  ten  3'ears  after 
1680.  Perhaps  a  deputy  once  chosen  was  expected  to  hold  the 
office  until  the  election  of  his  successor  ;  or,  as  the  towns  then  paid 
the  charges  of  their  representatives,  they  may  have  omitted  to  send 
occasionally  and  saved  the  expense.  In  1693  the  town,  to  prevent 
so  much  loss  of  time  as  was  generall}'  spent  without  profit  at  the 
town  meeting,  agreed  that  distinct  notice  be  given  of  the  hour  of 
meeting,  and  "that  the  town  clerk  shall  constantly  attend  at  that 
time,  and  that  any  vote  or  grant  passed  by  the  inhabitants  orderly' 
within  one  hour  after  the  time  set  *  shall  be  always  accounted 
vallid,  although  there  ma}-  want  man}'  of  the  inhabitants  ;  and  that 
no  vote  passed  at  any  time  after  y"  sun  is  set  shall  be  *  vallid  ; 
and  the  town  clerk  (in  cloud\'  weather)  shall  delare  when  the  sun 
is  set." 
The  preservation  of  shade  trees  received  attention,  and  a  com- 
mittee was  appointed,  "15,  12,  93,  to  mark  with  the  letter  T  so 
man}^  trees  as  they  shall  judge  needful  upon  y^  Country  roads  and 
town  Comons  *  from  the  house  of  Joseph  Walker  to  the  house 
of  Capt.  Brackit,  and  from  Capt.  Hill's  to  y"  Brow  of  Rockie  Hill, 
leading  to  Andover."  This  included  for  several  miles  the  two  main 
highways,  which  crossed  each  other  in  the  village. 
The  instructions  to  the  selectmen  (see  p-  61)  were  annually 
repeated,  with  slight  variations.  They  were  usually  read  in  public, 
and  sometimes  recorded  anew.  But,  after  the  reading  in  1694, 
March  23,  the  clei'k  adds:  "answered  by  the  Town,  that  the  law 
hath  provided  for  what  was  contained  in  the  instructions  ;  our 
instructions  laid  aside  for  the  year"  ;    and   they  do  not  reappear. 
A  committee,  in  1694,  April,  was  directed  "to  lay  out  a  suphi- 
cient  highway  from  Mr.  Michael's  farm  through  Mrs.  Page's  land  to 
Shawshin  River  ;  and  over  Shawshin  River  unto  Lt.  John  Willson's 
mill,  and  to  Cambridge  line  ;  and  from  the  same  road  to  lay  out 
a  suphicient  highway  through  Mrs.  Page's  land  unto  the  land  of 
Patrick  Fassit,  unto  the  house  of  Patrick  Fassit  ;    and  from  thence 
 - 222 - 
GLEANINGS  FROM  THE  RECORDS.  199 
to  state  th?  highway  iu  the  most  convenient  place  from  Patrick 
Fassitt's  house,  leading  up  to  Concord  Road,  and  from  tliere  to 
Mr.  Laine's."  JNIr.  Fasset  lived  near  the  residence  of  Mrs.  Lane, 
on  the  main  street,  a  half-mile  east  of  Bedford  ;  but  this  description 
can  hardly  belong  to  the  present  Bedford  Sti-eet,  for  if  that  had  been 
laid  out  before  1708,  it  must  have  been  mentioned  in  describing  the 
grants  then  made  to  Hill  and  Fasset,  which  were  separated  by  it  not 
long  after.  Probably  this  record  belongs  to  the  "  ])iae-hill  road," 
alluded  to  above  (p.  !).t). 
May  G,  1694,  the  town  appointed  John  Wilson,  Sen.,  and  Joseph 
Torapson  ''to  search  the  Countr}'  Records  to  find  both  the  grant  & 
the  returne  of  Mr.  Winthrop's  farm,  that  lyeth  on  the  mouth  of 
Concord  Riuer"  ;  and  the  selectmen,  Avith  Captain  Danforth,  were 
directed  "to  prosecute  the  Town's  inteiest  in  wemessek  land  to 
efect,  and  the  town  doth  engadge  to  stand  by  them  in  the  same." 
This  record  may  explain  one  which  follows  soon  after.  The  town 
"had  enformation  that  sum  persons  have  eregularly  marked  out 
Land  in  our  Towne  comons,  without  our  knowledge  and  appro- 
bation" ;  
and  Thomas  Richardson,  Edward  Farmer,  and  Joseph 
Walker,  Sen.,  were  sent  "to  deface  &  extinguish  &  abolish  all  such 
marks,  &  to  pluck  up  all  such  stakes  or  boundes  of  land  so  bounded 
or  marked  ;  in  as  much  as  in  them  lyeth  to  make  all  such  markes 
and  stakes  to  be  a  niility." 
The  various  expenses  of  the  town  from  year  to  year  are  recorded. 
From  these  we  gather  that  the  deputy  to  the  General  Court  had  three 
shillings  per  day  ;  that  the  widow  Ruth  Shead  had  sometimes  £1  and 
sometimes  twenty-five  shillings  for  "sweeping  the  meeting  house"; 
that,  in  1694,  £12  was  paid  for  ammunition  ;  in  1696  seven  shillings 
was  paid  for  transporting  two  impotent  persons  "to  oborn,  by  order" 
of  Major  Henchman  ;  that  the  cost  of  the  land  controversy  west  of 
C'oncord  River,  in  1696,  was  about  £8;  and  that  the  clerk,  Mr. 
Tompson,  received  £2,  5s.,  for  keeping  the  records  and  making  five 
town  rates.  A  town  meeting  was  held,  1695,  December  3,  at  Mr. 
Farmer's,  and  the  town  clerk  adds,  "Terible  cold."  July  17th, 
"our  inhabitanee  (being  warned  before  by  a  warrant,  given  to 
the  constables)  sware  alegiance  unto  King  William  before  Major 
tinge." 
The  primitive  method  of  aiding  the  poor  appears  from  a  record, 
14  January-,  1696-7,  which  was  "a  day  of  humiliation,"  and  a  con- 
tribution was  taken,  amounting  to  thirty-two  shillings  and  eightpence, 
 - 223 - 
200  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
for  Thomas  Stearns.  In  Februar}',  another  "collection  in  public" 
was  taken  of  fourteen  shillings  and  sixpence  ;  and  three  persons 
appearing  before  the  selectmen,  "it  being  a  low  time  with  them,"  it 
was  agreed  "to  divide  that  small  matter  equally  between  them,"  and 
to  give  each  a  bushel  of  Indian  corn. 
The  arrears  in  minister's  rates  were  a  constant  source  of  trouble. 
In  February,  1696-7,  an  obligation  was  presented  for  subscriptions 
by  persons  who  would  promise  to  pa}'  their  arrears  before  Ma}'  20  ; 
"otherwise  the  constable  to  make  distraint  forthwith  upon  such  as 
shall  refuse."  In  November  these  prices  were  fixed  for  payments  of 
minister's  rates  :  corn  at  three  shillings  and  fourpence,  rye  at  four 
shillings  and  sixpence,  and  wheat  at  five  shillings  and  eightpence  per 
bushel  ;  pork  at  fourpence  per  pound,  if  merchantable.  Whoever 
paid  in  money  might  have  an  abatement  of  one-seventh.  The  next 
year  the  prices  fixed  were  less. 
At  this  period  Mr.  Farmer's  house  seems  to  have  been  the  tavern 
and  place  where  the  selectmen  met.  In  1699,  Samuel  Hnnt  also  is 
approved  of  b}'  the  selectmen  to  sell  victuals  and  drink  "only  three 
months  in  y*"  3-ear,"  April,  May,  and  June  ;  and  Jonathan  Bacon 
received  the  same  license,  not  limited  to  three  months. 
Clocks  and  watches  were  few,  and  in  1697  Captain  Dan  forth  was 
paid  for  an  hour-glass  and  for  repairing  the  horse-block,  six  shillings 
and  twopence.  Th?  town  also  voted,  that  "every  Tythingman  bring 
his  staff  at  oui"  next  annual  choice  of  Town  officers  ;  otherwise  to 
continue  in  that  place  if  the  Town  do  se  meet." 
1703,  May:  "Complaint  being  made  of  the  want  of  a  watch 
house,"  a  committee  was  appointed  "to  vew  the  old  meeting  house," 
who  reported  that  it  might  be  made  feasible  and  comfortable  "to 
answer  the  end  of  the  same."     The  report, was  approved. 
A  careful  account  was  taken  of  the  stock  of  ammunition  in  the 
hands  of  Captain  Danforth  ;  and,  in  August,  "there  did  appear  so 
great  danger  of  the  iuem}',  and  many  of  our  inhabitants  being  in 
great  want  of  Ammunition,"  a  distribution  was  made  to  Thomas 
Dutton,  Samuel  Rogers,  John  Dunken,  Daniel  Shead,  Corp.  John 
Frencly  Samuel  Hunt,  Nathan  Crosb}',  Samuel  Fasset,  Captain 
Tomson.  Dr.  Samuel  Frost,  and  John  Chamberlin.  After  this 
military  use  of  the  old  meeting-house,  it  stood  until  1708  and  was 
disposed  of.  The  following  pecuniary  record  will  not  only  be  of 
interest  for  itself,  but  as  an  illustration  of  the  method  annuall}' 
pursued. 
 - 224 - 
I 
GLEANINGS  FROM  THE  RECORDS.  201 
"At  a  meeting  of  the  selectmen.  Decem.  9,  1714.  Mr.  Ruggles  his 
sallery  Eate  and  the  Town  Rate  was  made.  Mr.  Euggles  his  rate  wiis 
made  81-13-08     the  town  Rate  was  made  40-16-10 
''And  unto  Daniel  Kittredge,  Constable,  was  committed  to  collect  of 
Mr.  Ruggles  his  sallery  Rate  41  -  04  -  04    and  of  the  town  Rate  20  -  12  -  02 
"and  you  are  ordered  to  pay  out  of  the  Town  Rate  as  foUoweth  : 
to  Lt.  Stearns  as  Deputy  04-05-00 
to  Daniel  Chamberlain  02-05-00 
to  Joshua  Abbot  for  Ringing  ye  bell  "00-17-00 
to  John  Farmer  for  the  Bridge  00  -  15  -  01 
to  deacon  Sheldon  for  the  Bridge  00  -  08  -  00 
more  for  hiin  as  assessor  00  -  OG  -  00 
more  to  him  for  rufiing  Andouer  line  &  labor  about  Sam  Trull's 
funeral  00  -  04  -  00 
to  sargt  Brown  as  assessor  00  -  OS  -  00 
for  ruJiing  Wobourn  &  Andouer  lines  00  -  05  -  00 
for  work  at  ye  Bridg  &  for  Sam'  Trull  00  -  08  -  06 
to  Sargt  Dutton,  1  day  at  the  Bridge  00  -  02  -  06 
to  Ephraim  Kidder  for  Wobourn  line  00  -  02  -  06 
to  Sargt^  Danforth  for  Ruiiing  Chelmsford  line  00  -  02  -  06 
more  to  him  for  thre  pine  trees  for  the  bridg  00  -  05  -  00 
to  George  farley  for  two  trees  00  -  04  -  00 
to  John  Blanchard  for  taking  the  Inuoice  00  -  09  -  04 
[  
Tivo  obliterated  items]  00  -  09  -  00 
loTirrfi 
"and  unto  Jaines  Hosley,  consta',  was  committed  to  collect  of  Mr. 
Ruggles  his  salleiy  Rate  40  -  09  -  04    and  of  the  town  Rate  20  -  04  -  08 
"and  you  are  ordered  to  pay  out  of  the  Town  Rate  as  folio weth  : 
to  Lt.  Stearns  as  deputy  05  -  00  -  00 
more  to  him  as  assessor  00  -  08  -  00 
for  rufiing  Chelmsford  and  Lexington  lines  00  -  05  -  00 
for  answering  a  presentment  and  paying  2^  at  Ccmcord  00  -  05  -  00 
to  Oliver  Whiting  as  assessor  00  -  09  -  00 
for  writing  the  Warrants  &  orders  to  y"  Constables  00  -  03  -  00 
AVriting  in  ye  Town  Book  00  -  05  -  00 
nore  for  y  2  pair  of  gloues  for  Sam^  Trull's  Burial  &  2  shillings 
paid  at  Concord  00  -  04  -  00 
to  Mr.  Kidder  for  selectmen's  expenses  the  last  year  00  -  06  -  08 
for  this  year  01  -  01  -  00 
to  ens  Shed  for  a  coffin  for  S.  Trull  00  -  06  -  06 
to  Sam'  Danforth  for  y  grave  .  00-03-00 
to  Lt.  Hill  for  Lexington  line  00  -  02  -  06 
to  Sam'  Fitch  for  Concord  line  00  -  02  -  06 
to  Josiah  Fasset  for  s'^  line  00  -  02  -  06 
to  Ephraim  Manning  at  ye  bridg  00-01     ? 
 - 225 - 
202  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
to  Oliver  Whiting  Jun'  at  y  bridgv  00  -  01     ? 
to  John  Baldwin  00  -  08     ? 
To  Coi-pi  Sniuiu'l  Fassot  00  -  09  -  00 
to  Jonathan  Daiiforth  00-08-00 
to  'J'iniothy  Farley  00-08-00 
In  1721,  the  State,  as  a  measure  of  relief  for  extensive  financial 
embarrassments,  established  a  Loan  Ftind,  which  was  distributed 
proportionally  to  the  various  towns,  and  under  the  charge  of  trustees 
loaned  to  citizens.  The  share  of  Billerica  was  £396,  and  her 
trustees.  n[)[)ointed  November  6th,  were  Ebenezer  Farley,  Joshua 
Abbott,  and  Jolin  Neodhani.  They  were  ordered  "to  let  out  the 
said  money  to  Interest  at  live  per  cent,  for  the  use  of  the  town,  to 
be  dis|)osed  of  as  the  town  shall  order  from  3-ear  to  year,  until  the 
time  set  in  the  act-l)e  expired,  taking  good  Personal  securit}'  for  said 
money,  no  person  to  have  above  ten  pounds  nor  under  five  ;  also,  it 
was  voted,  that  the  said  Trustees  shall  have  twenty'  shillings  apiece, 
given  them  out  of  the  whole  principal  of  said  mone}-,  and. a  fifth 
part  of  the  Interest  of  the  said  money  for  their  services  as  trustees 
from  year  to  year,  for  letting  out  and  taking  care  of  said  money." 
Persons  borrowing  from  this  fund  gave  mortgages  to  the  Loan 
Commissioners,  and  man}-  of  these  mortgage  deeds  are  on  record 
at  the  Middlesex  l^cgistry.  The  interest  for  the  first  year  was 
appropriated  towards  the  town  charges.  The  loan  was  repaid  to 
the  State  in  five  annual  instalments,  1726-30.  But  the  process  w^as 
found  so  agreeable  that  it  was  repeated,  and,  in  April,  1725,  the 
town  voted  to  '-Receive  their  pro[)ortion  of  the  £60,000  Loan,"  and 
chose  Joshua  Abbott,  Benjamin  Tompson,  and  Dea.  William  Patten, 
Trustees.  The  part  of  Billerica  in  this  second  loan  was  £496,  o.s. 
It  ran  for  ten  years  instead  of  five,  the  first  payment  of  one-fifth 
part  to  the  State  being  made  in  1734. 
In  1733,  the  clerk,  then  Joshua  Abbot,  began  to  enter  the  tax- 
lists  in  the  Records,  aud  from  that  date  these  valuable  lists  are 
found  regularly.  The  tax-payers  were  divided  into  two  lists,  the  line 
of  division  being  Long  Street  or  the  Woburn  and  Chelmsford  Road  ; 
designated  North  and  South  Lists  at  first,  but  after  1735  as  E^ast  and 
West.  In  1733  the  Province  tax  was  £54,  10s.,  8d.,  the  minister's 
rate  £143,  lis.,  lid.,  and  the  town  rate  £104,  10s.,  making  a  total 
of  over  £300,  old  tenor.  The  list  follows,  recast  alphabetically, 
giving  only  the  minister's  rate  and  designating  by  the  letters  "•N" 
and  "S"  the  list.  Noi'th  or  South,  on  which  the  name  occurs. 
 - 226 - 
GLEANINGS  FROM  THE  RECORDS.                      203 
TAX-LIST,  1733.  —  MINISTER'8   RATE. 
'..  s. 
S.     1 
Abbott,  Jeremiah.  JS.  0 
Abbott.  Dea.. Joshua,  S.         1 
Artherton.  Dr.  Benj-,  ^''-        0 
Baldwin.  John.  .V. 
Baldwin,  John,  Jun"^..  (S'. 
Baldwin,  John.  Ter\  X. 
Baldwin,  Jonathan,  Jun 
Baldwin.  Josiah.  6'. 
Baldwin.  En*'.  Thomas, 
Baldwin.  Thomas,  Jun'. 
Baldwin.  William,  .V. 
Beard.  p]benezer,  *S'. 
Beard.  John,  -V. 
Blanchard,  .fohn.  S.  1 
Bowers.  ('<iiJt.  Jonathan.  S:  1 
Brown.  Eijhraiui.  *S'. 
Brown,  (apt.  George,  S. 
Brown.  John,  iV. 
Brown.  Joseph,  (S'. 
Brown,  Josiah,  S. 
Brown.  Samuel.  S. 
Brown,  AVilliam,  S. 
Campble,  Thomas,  N. 
Cannada.  Jolin,  iV. 
Chamberlain,  Abi'aham,  N. 
Chamberlain,  Clement.  N. 
Chamberlain,  Clement,  J'.,  X. 
Chamberlain.  William,  N. 
Cornell.  Peter,  .S'. 
Crosbey,  James,  S. 
Crosbey,  Sargt.  Josiah,  S. 
Crosbey,  Josiah,  Jun''.,  <S'. 
Crosbey,  Nathan,  /S'.  1 
Crosbey,  Simon.  Sen.,  S. 
Crosbey,  Ens.  Simon,  S. 
Crosbe}%  Simon,  heirs,  S. 
Crosbey,  Thomas,  K. 
Crosbey.  William,  iS. 
Dantorth,  Jacob.  S. 
Dantorth,  L'.  Jonathan,  N. 
Danforth.  Nicholas,  N. 
Danforth,  Mi-.  Samuel,  N.     1 
Danforth.  Samuel,  Jun'.,  S. 
Dant'orrh,  Samuel.  Ter,  N. 
Dantorth.  Thomas.  \. 
Daves,  Dea.  Joseph,  Y.  1 
Davidson,  Eobert,  N. 
Davidson,  William.  N. 
Dean,  Ebenezer.  A. 
Ditson,  II ugh,  *S'.  1 
Ditson,  James.  S. 
Ditson,  Thomas,  S. 
Dows.  Ebenezer,  JV. 
Durant,  Abraham,  A'. 
Durant.  Benjamin,  A'^ 
Durant,  Heiiry,  N. 
Durant,  John,  N. 
0    G  Durant,  John,  Jun^..  X. 
8  10  Durant,  Thomas.  A'^. 
12ft      C,  Dutton.  Srg'.  John,  A". 
02  Dutton.  Samuel,  A. 
11  08  Dutton,  Thomas,  A'^. 
147    02  Farley.  George's  heirs,  S. 
05  Farley,  James,  A. 
9  06  Farley,  Joseph,  *S'. 
17  10  Farley,  Samuel.  X. 
12  10  Farley,  Timothy.  S. 
7  OS  Farmer,  Andrew.  A'. 
13  06  Farmer,  Edward,  A^. 
18  03  Farmer,  John.  X. 
3  10  Farmer,  Oliver,  X. 
6     6  Farmer,  Kichard,  X. 
6  10  Farmer,  Thomas,  A. 
12  0  Farmer,  Thomas,  Jun.,  X. 
17  10  Foster.  John,  S. 
8  1 1  Foster,  Thomas.  ,S'. 
11     7  French.  Ebenezer,  X. 
10    2  French,  Jacob,  ^. 
n     6  French.  Srg'.  John,  A. 
6    6  French,  Nicholas,  A^. 
9  4  French,  Sarg'.  AVilliam,  S. 
9     7  French.  William,  Jun'.,  <S'. 
10  3  Frost,  Benjamin.  *S'. 
6  10  Frost.  Daniel,  A. 
7  8  Frost.  Edmond.  X. 
9    6  Frost,  Srg'.  James.  A^. 
9    8  Frost,  James,  Jun'.,  A'. 
11  3  Frost,  Joseph.  -S'. 
7  7  Frost,  Joseph.  Ter".  S. 
8  7  I'rost,  Samuel,  A^. 
6     6  P'lost,  Thouias,  A'. 
19  T)  Hall,  Richard,  A^ 
2  5  Hall,  Richard,  Jun'..  A. 
11     1  Hall,  Samuel,  A. 
13  8  Hardey.  Zachariah,  A". 
10  4  Haseltine,  Samuel.  X. 
17  11  Haseltine,  Stephen.  ^V. 
6    6  Hill.  Capt.  John.  X. 
0    9  Hill,  Jonathan,  S. 
11  2  Hill,  L'.  Joseph,  ;S'. 
8     8  Hill,  Joseph.  Junr.,  S. 
13     1  Hill.  Nathaniel.  S. 
66    62    Hill.  Peter.  .S'. 
Hill.  Ralph,  S. 
6  6  Hill.  Ralph.  Jun^.  S. 
7  7  Hill.  Capt.  Sanmel,  ^S". 
3  1  Hill.  Sanmel.  Jun'..  S. 
6  6  Hill.  Samuel.  Ter",  S. 
7  67    Hopkins.  Benjamin,  6'. 
Hopkins.  Richard,  S. 
0  Hopkins.  William.  S. 
6  10  Hosley,  Joseph,  S. 
G     6  .     Hosley,  Mariah,  S. 
13     G  Hosley,  Thomas,  S. 
10 
8 
8 
1  •) 
2 
1  z 
10 
17     5 
10 
11 
4    6 
9    8 
1  2    4 
6    6 
16 
10 
(i 
6 
11 
.") 
!) 
4 
18 
5 
6     6 
6    6 
6    6 
6 
9  106  
15   10 
12 
1 
1  2 
3 
3    3 
1  4    4 
16 
2 
1  82    91 
 
11     5 
9    4 
8    9 
12     8 
7    4 
3    3 
14   n 
1  08     5 
2 
6    6 
10     2 
1  0    0 
6    6 
17 
1  13   105  
11     1 
6 
11   107  
6    6 
12     1 
9    7 
1  3    2 
12     7 
10 
3 
10 
1 
6 
10 
12 
9 
6 
6  106  
10 
4 
 - 227 - 
204                          HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
TAX-LIST,  1733.  —  Continued. 
Hunt,  En\  Jeremiah,  N. 
Hunt.  -John.  N. 
Hunt.  .loseph.  N. 
Hunt.  Peter.  iV. 
Hunt.  Sjunuel.  Jun.,  X. 
Jaquith.  Abraham.  S. 
Jefts,  Henry.  S. 
Jefts.  Henr3%  Jun'..  N. 
Jefts.  Henry.  T.r«.  S. 
K'emp.  Jonathan.  N. 
Kemp.  J<iseph,  N. 
Kidder.  Mr.  Enoch.  N. 
Kidder.  Enoch.  Jun'.,  N. 
Kidder.  Ei)liraim,  ;S'. 
Kidder.  Ephraim.  Jun'..  S. 
Kidder.  James,  h^'irs,  S. 
Kidder.  L'.  Thon)as,  N. 
Kidder.  William.  JSf. 
Kittredg-e.  L'.  Daniel.  N. 
Kittredge,  Daniel.  Jun  .,  iV. 
Kittredge.  Francis,  i^. 
Kittredgc,  James.  ^V. 
Kittredge.  James,  Jun.,  (S". 
Kittredge,  James.  Ter".  N. 
Kittredge,  Dr.  John.  S. 
Klttredge.  John.  Jun'.,  S. 
Kittredge.  Joseph.  S. 
Kittredge.  Thomas,  N. 
Kittredge.  AVilliam.  N. 
Levestone.  Jolm,  N. 
Levestone.  Srg'.  John.  X. 
Levestone,  John,  Ter**,  N. 
Levestone,  Seth,  N. 
Manning,  Benjamin,  .V. 
Manning.  Eliphalet.  S. 
Manning.  En^  William.  N. 
Manning,  .William.  J'.,  X. 
Marshall.  Isaac.  S. 
Marshall.  John.  8. 
Marshall.  Thomas.  X. 
Marshall.  William.  *S'. 
Needham.  John.  S. 
Osgood.  Cap'  Cliristopher.  X. 
Osgood.  Steplien.  S. 
Parlier.  Benjauiin.  Jun'..  S. 
Parlver.  John.  S. 
Parlver,  John.  Jun'.,  8. 
Patten.  John.  A^. 
Patten.  John.  Jun''.,  8. 
Patten.  Josepli.  8. 
Patten.  Kendall.  X. 
Patten.  Nathaniel,  X. 
Patten.  Xathaniel.  Jun''.,  8. 
Patten.  Sarg'.  Thomas,  8. 
Patten.  Thomas.  Jun^,  X. 
Peacock.  Samuel.  ^V. 
Pollard,  Edward,  X. 
1    1    9         Pollard,  John,  X.                            10     3 
1  104   10          Pollard.  Nathaniel.  X.                   «     6 
11          Pollard,  Walter,  X.                          B    6 
16     3        Putnam.  Seth,  8.                                10     3 
1    0      4         Richardson,  Amos,  8.                      6    6 
13     1         Richardson.  Andrev\'.  8.          1     3    0 
7    0         Richardson,  Andrew,  J'.,  A        7    3 
19     1 
8    0        Richardson,  John,  .S'.                                        6    6 
Richardson,  Xathaniel,  iS'. 
1     8    6 
9    0        Richardson,  Samuel,  8.                   8    0 
7    7        Richardson,  Stephen,  8. 
11 
4 
19     5 
Richardson,  Thomas,  *S'. 
16 
9 
11     9 
Rogers,  John,  X.                        1     5    3 
1(1      9 
7    7         Rogers,  John,  Jun'.,  X.                 6    6 
Rogers.  Wid.  Mar3\  X.                   0    4 
1    1         Ross.  Seth,  8.                                       12 
10 
11 
11           Ross,  Mr.  Thomas,  8. 
16   10 
6    0         Ross,  Thomas,  Jun^,  8.                  9    4 
12     9        Sanders,  James,  X.                         6    6 
8  11          Sanders,  John,  X.                      1     o      2 
1    0    2         Sanders,  John,  Jun'  ., X.               6    6 
0       0         Shed,  Ens.  Benjamin,  8.           1     0    5 
1     2    4         Shed.  Daniel.  6\                                     6    6 
10     7        Shed,  Ens.  John,  8.                            3 
11 
1    0    5         Shed.  John.  Jun'.,  X. 
16 
5 
7    3 
Shed.  Xathan,  Jun--.,  ^S". 
12 
4 
9    8         S!i-d.  William.  8. 
13 
10 
9    8         Sheldon.  Samuel.  8.                        18   10 
IS     7 
Snow.  Richard.  *S'. 
6    6 
4    5         Sprake,  Nicholas.  X.                     15     7 
1     7    4 
Sprake.  Nicholas.  Jun"".,  A^. 
13   10 
6 
(i 
7  11          Spaulding.  Benoni,  A^.                       14     2 
Stearns,  Isaac.  8.                                8    0 
7    2 
9    6         Stearns,  Isaac,  Jun''.,  8.                17     1 
1    1    7         Stearns.  L'.  John,  *S'.                             1     3    7 
Stickne,  Abraham,  X.                    8    2 
7    2         Stickne,  Daniel,  8.                              9    1 
6    G 
Stickne,  William,  A^. 
1     3    8 
13     7 
Tarball,  John,  *S'. 
1     1 
10 
10     3 
Tarball,  John,  Jun'"..  8. 
6    6 
7    7        Tarball,  Thomas,  8.                         6    6 
1    2    1         Tompson.  Benjamin.  8. 
17 
7 
1    8    3         Toothaker.  Dr.  Roger.  X.          12     4 
11 
11 
Trull.  John,  X.                                10     3 
0    0 
Trull.  Sanuiel,  A^.                                       7    5 
(1 
6 
Walker.  Andre\A'.  A^. 
17 
11 
10 
0            A\'alker.  Benjamin.  *S'. 
1     2    5 
8    4        Walker.  Jacob.  8.     .                                   1     1    1 
8    9 
AValker.  John.  *S'. 
19 
9 
6 
10 
^VTliting•.  Eleazer.  8.                           6 
(i 
10   10          Whiting.  Col.  John.  X.                10     2 
7    2 
AVhiting.  Oliver,  Esq'.,  8. 
18 
5 
(i 
10 
AVhiting.  Oliver.  Jun'.,  .V. 
12 
8 
13     8         AVhiting,  Samuel,  ^V.                               12     2 
14 
2 
Williams,  Job,  A'. 
6    6 
10     7         Wilson,  Jacob,  8.                             11     5 
9    4        Wilson.  En^  John,  8.                    15   10 
 - 228 - 
GLEANINGS  FROM  THE  RECORDS. 
205 
The  followino-  were  non-residents  : — 
Ballard,  En^  Joseph  heirs. 
Bhnicliard,  Jonathan 
Blanrhard,  Jonathan,  Jim' 
Blani'liard.  Hamuel 
Blunt.  William 
Foster,  Mr.  William 
Frye.  <  apt.  James 
Co)icord  . 
Blood.  John 
Cht^Imsfnrd  : 
01  00          Kidder.  Thomas,  guai 
•dian. 
for 
00  09              three  Eichardsons                   01  OS 
00  07 
0-2  07          Spualding-.  Henry                      01  01 
01  00                                      Wnhnrn  : 
iVA  07 
Wymau.  ^Irs.  Esther 
00  11 
00  0!) 
Wyman.  .losiah                                  01  04 
Wynian,  .Samuel 
00  11 
Wyman,  Thouuis                         11  04 
01   Of)             Wyman,  Tiuiothy                         11  04 
Wyman.  Sarg'.  Williaui               00  11 
I  give  also  the  list  for  1755,  as  intermediate  between  the  date 
of  the  above  and  that  of  1775,  which  will  be  found  in  the  chapter 
on  the  Revolutionary  War. 
TAX-LIST,  1T55.  —  MINISTER'S   RATE. 
Ahbot.  David.  E.  £00  03  06  1 
Abbot.  Uea.  Joshua.  E.  04  05 
Abbot.  Joshua,  Jan..  \V.        07  05  1 
Abbot.  Oliver.  E.  04  05 
Akin.  Matthew,  W.  02  05  1 
Baldwin,  Benj*..  E.  02  04  1 
Baldwin,  David.  E.  11  05  2 
Baldwin.  John,  E.  12  01  2 
Baldwin,  Sam".,  E.  04  06  2 
Baldwin.  W'".,  E.  05  03 
Beard.  Ebenezer,  E.  14  06  1 
Blanchard,  John.  W.  08  02  2 
Blanchard.  Samii.,  W.  05  00  1 
Blanchaid,  Simon.  W.  05  11  2 
Blodget,  Amos,  W.  02  07 
Bowers.  Mrs.  Hannah.  E.      00  08 
Bowers,  Josiah.  W.  08  00  1 
Bowers,  Mr.  W™.,  E.  09  06  1 
Brown.  John.  W.  01  08 
Brown,  Josiah,  W.  '  .     08  04 
Brown,  Nath'i.,  W.  03  04  2 
Brown.  L'.  Samuel,  E.  07  07 
Brown,  Samuel.  Jun.,  E.        02  03 
Brown,  Tho^,  IF.  03  01 
Centei-,  John.  E.  02  09  2 
Chandler,  Tho^.,  E.  02  03 
Cheever.  John,  E.  03  07 
Clark.  James,  W.  03  08  1 
Crosby.  Ephraim.  E.  05  06  1 
Crosby,  Francis,  W.  04  01  3 
Crosby,  Wid.  Hannah,  W.     00  08 
Crosby,  He^,  W.  05  10  1 
Crosby,  James,  E.  02  03 
Crosbv,  Jasaniah,  W.  08  08 
Crosby,  Xathan,  W.  04  01  2 
Crosby,  Samson,  E.  02  03 
Crosby,  L'.  Simon.  E.  05  08  1 
Cumings,  L«.  Nath'.,  W.  03  OS  1 
Danforth,  Beni\.  E.  02  09 
Danforth.  David.  IF.  09  02  1 
Danforth.  Wid  :  Elijah,  W.    01  00  2 
Danforth,  James,  E.  04  11 
Danforth,  L'.  Jonat".,  E.  04  04  1 
Danforth.  Sam"..  E.  04  11 
Danforth.  Doe^  Timothy,  £".  05  04  3 
Davidson,  Nathn.,  E.  10  11  2 
Davis,  Joshua.  E.  10  07  2 
Ditsou,  Thos.,  E.  05  03  3 
Dows.  Ben)-'.,  W.  03  11 
Dows.  Ebenez(^r,  IF.  0607  1 
Dows.  Ebenezer.  Jun..  IF.     03  09  3 
Dows.  Sam'..  W.  02  03 
Dunklee,  Hezekiah,  E.  06  03  2 
Durant.  Abraham.  IF.  OS  08  2 
Durant.  John.  Ju'.,  IF.  04  07 
Dutton,  Jolm.  IF.  05  03  2 
Farley,  Caleb.  IF.  05  02 
Farley,  Ebenezer.  Tl^.  09  09 
Farlev,  James,  W.  01  05  1 
Farmer,  Mr.  Andrew,  TF.  07  10  2 
Farmer,  Oliver.  E.  14  01 
Farmer.  Oliver.  .lu'..  E.  02  04  1 
Foster.  Isaac.  E.  00  09  2 
Foster.  Jaeob.  E.  03  02  2 
Fox,  Abel,  IF.  02  02  1 
French.  David.  E.  04  05 
French,  Ebenezer,  E.  12  04  1 
French,  Jacob,  E.  06  07 
French,  John,  E.  04  08  2 
French,  Sam"..  E.  04  03 
French,  Lt.  W™.,  E.  15  05  2 
French,  W".,  Ju'-.,  E.  12  08  2 
 - 229 - 
206                          HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
TAX-LIST,  1755.  —  Continued. 
Frost.  VVia.  Esther,  W. 
UlH.-isoii.  \V'"..  E. 
Gi)ud\v'in.  Tho".,  E. 
Gray.  Hi-avitor.  E. 
Ha^'it.  Thoiiias.  E. 
Hall.  Sa;iii'..  E. 
Hai'dy.  EbfMiezer.  E. 
HartxVt^ll.  Will.  Mary.  W 
06  00 
02  07  1 
02  09  1 
02  OJ 
02  03 
02  03 
02  03 
01  02  2 
Hennery.  John,  W. [onhj province  tax.~\ 
Hill.  John.  W.  07  10  I 
Hill.  Jonathn..  W.  09  07  2 
Hill.  Joseph.  W.  13  02  2 
Hill.  P(>ter.  IF.  06  0-t 
Hill.  rai)t.  Ralph.  W.  06  07 
Hill.  Ralph.  Jan.,  W.  02  03 
Hill.  Sanri.,  W.        .  07  09  1 
Hosley.  'J'ho^.  E.  08  08  1 
Hosley.  Thos..  Ju»..  E.  02  07 
Jaquith.  Abraham,  W.  13  03  1 
Jaquith.  Abrahan),  J.u".,  W.  07  06  1 
Jaqiurh.  Ebenezer,  W.  02  03 
Jefts.  Ileniy,  ]]'.  06  04  1 
Jet't.s.  Henry,  Jan.,  IF.  04  09 
Jelcs,  Simeon,  IF.  04  03  2 
Kidder.  Capt.  Enoch.  IF.        12  09  1 
Kidder.  Ephraiin,  E.  06  06 
Kidder.  Sam"..  W.  05  06  1 
Kidder,  Solomon.  W.  02  03 
Kidder.  Tho^.  Esq..  E.  07  07 
Kidder,  En^.  W'"..  E.  08  03 
Kindal.  Reuben.  E.  04  01  2 
Laws.  James.  TF.  06  04  2 
Leveston,  Wid.  Ruth.  E.        01  02 
Leveston,  Seth.  IF.  03  04 
Leveston.  Thos..  E.  07  00  1 
Lewis,  Benja.,  E.  09  00 
Lewis,  Benja..  Ju"..  E.  03  11 
Lewis.  Jonathan.  E.  03  00 
McDowell.  W™.,  £".  04  00  1 
Manning.  Benj..  IF.  03  0") 
Manning.  Jacob.  IF.  07  11 
Manning,  En^.  W™.,  IF.  02  03 
Manning.  L*.  W™.,  Jun..  W.  09  01  3 
Mansfield.  John.  IF.  02  03 
Marshall,  Isaac,  £".  09  02  1 
(Munroe,  Joseph.  IF.  [no  mijiisler's 
J  
Munroe,  Joseph,  Ja^,  IF.    7rite  ; 
I  
Munroe,  Joshua.  IF.  jjrcift.  paid  in 
[Munroe.  Nathan,  IF.     Carlisle.^ 
Needham,  Benj^..  W.  09  04 
Needham.  W™.,  IF.  06  10  2 
Nlckles,  Geo.,  }i\  02  08  1 
Nickles,  James.  IF.  03  09 
Nlckles,  Rob'.,  IF.  02  11 
Noyes,  Nicholas,  E.  02  03 
Osgood,  Josepli,  IF.  03  04  1 
Parker.  Benj=i„  IF.  03  10  2 
E'arker,  David.  E.  02  03 
Parker.  John.  E.  09  10 
Parkhurst,  John,  E.  02  03 
Patten.  John,  E.  07  00  2 
Patten,  W"\,  IF.  O.'i  05  2 
Pollard,  Edvv"..  E.  03  11  1 
Pollard.  John.  E.  09  04  1 
Pollard.  Jonathan.  E.  02  03 
Pollard.  Soloinoji.  E.  04  00  2 
Rankins.  James,  IF.  02  07 
Richardson,  Ebenezer,  E.  07  09 
Richardson.  Jonathan.  E.  06  04  1 
Ri(-liardson.  Sam'i.,  E.  09  03  1 
Ric'hardson.  Stephen.  IF.  09  012 
Rogers,  Sam''.,  E.  05  11  3 
Rogers.  Tho*.,  E.  04  06  2 
Rogers.  Zebadiah,  E.  08  02  3 
Rolfe,  Daniel,  [no  minister's  rate]. 
Ross,  Wid.  Hannah,  E.  01  00 
Ross,  John.  IF.  02  03 
Ross,  Joseph,  E.  02  09  2 
Ross,  Seth,  IF.  07  11 
Rixggles.  Joseph.  IF.  04  05  2 
Sanders.  Amos.  E.  02  11 
Sanders,  Benj^i..  E.  03  04  1 
Sanders,  David,  E.  02  112 
Sanders.  James,  E.  06  04  2 
Shed,  Capt.  Benj^.,  IF.  07  06  1 
Shed.  Benja..  Jun.,  IF.  03  08  1 
Shed,  Daniel,  E.  04  05  2 
Shed,  John,  IF.  11  04  2 
Shed,  Sami.,  ^^.  02  03 
Shed,  W™..  IF.  09  09 
Sheldon.  Sam"..  E.  14  04  3 
Snow.  Richard.  E.  02  07 
Spalding,  Asa,  IF.  05  08  1 
Spalding.  Edw^.,  IF.  02  06 
Sprake.  John,  IF.  02  03 
Sprake.  Nicholas,  IF.  13  00  2 
Si)rake.  Nicholas.  Jun..  E.  02  03  3 
Sprake.  Nicholas.  Te'.,  IF.      02  04  1 
Sprake.  Sam".,  IF.  03  03  1 
Stearns.  Edw"..  IF.  04  11  2 
Stearns,  Lt.  Isaac,  W.  02  02 
Stearns,  Lt.  John.  IF.  14  02 
Stearns.  Sam".,  11^.  05  01  2 
Stearns.  Tho^..  IF.  07  06  2 
Stickney.  Capt.  Daniel.  IF.     10  08 
Stickuev.  David.  W.  02  08  1 
Stickney.  Dea.  W™..  IF.  07  09 
Tarbell,  David.  E.  02  03 
Tarbell.  John.  E.  05  03 
Tarbell,  Jonathan.  E.  02  04  1 
Tarbell.  W™..  E.  04  04  2 
Taylor.  Thomas.  E.  02  03 
Tompson.  W°'..  E.  13  05  2 
Toothaker,  Doc'.  Roger.  E.    05  07  5 
 - 230 - 
GLEANINGS  FROM  THE  RECORDS. 
TAX-LIST,  1755.  —  Continued. 
207 
Totman,  John.  E.                         03  00  2                                       CnrUslr  : 
Trull.  Wid.  Marv.  E.                 01  04             Blood.  John                              10  02 
Trull.  Sam'..  E.                              04  08  1 
[V]     Isaac 
02  03 
AValkcr,  Ezekiel.  E. 
0.-)  03 
Parling,  David                         00  09  1 
Walker,  Jacob.  E.                         00  05  3         Eussell.  James                        00  02  2 
Walker,  Joseph,  E.                     04  09  2 
Walker.  Robt..  W.                      04  11                                           Chrlins/urd: 
Walker.  AVid.  Sarah,  E.            00  06  2 
Keyes.  Eph'. 
01  00 
Wessoji.  Sam"..  E.                      03  09  3        Robens.  Jonas                           00  10  2 
AVhite,  Ens.  John.  E.                09  05  2         Spalding.  Henry                     00  05  1 
AVhitino;.  John.  Tf^                           02  03              Spalding.  John                         00  04 
Whiting.  Jonathan.  W.            05  01               Spalding.  En*.  Jonathan        02  02  2 
Whiting.  Oliver.  W.                  08  03              Spalding.  Thi)\                             01  00  1 
Whiting.  Dea.  Sami'.,  E.          04  11  1 
Whiting.  Sam'.,  Jun..  ^.  '                   02  05  2                                   Teickshuri/  : 
Wilson.  Jacob.  W.                      07  07  1         Foster.  Jonathan                      00  04 
Wilson,  John,  W.                        02  03 
Wilson.  John.  Jun..  E.             02  03             Kittredge.  Tho^.                           00  01  1 
Levestone,  John                      00  04 
Wilson,  Seth.  E.                           05  04  2         Merrell.  Stephen                      00  04 
Winning,  Alexander,  W.        03  07  1         Patten,  Kendal                         00  05  1 
Obed.  Abbot,  as  guardian                                                   ]V()hurii  : 
for  Seth  Crosby.  W.              05  05  1         Bennet.  James                         00  0(3  2 
W'".  Kidder,  do.  for  Jonas                          Wyman.  Joshua                       00  04 
Sanders,  E.                                      00  08 
Wyman.  Xath'. 
00  06  2 
Wjman,  Sam". 
00  05  1 
Bedford  :                                                       Wyman.  Timothy                   01  01  1 
Griuxes.  Jonathan                    01  00 
Wyman.  W"\,  heirs                    01  09  1 
I 
 - 231 - 
CHAPTER    XI. 
LAND    DISTRIBUTIOX.     CONTINUED. 
A  PREVIOUS  chapter  gives  accoiint  of  the  early  distribution  of 
lands.  Small  grants  were  of  course  often  made,  but  there  was  no 
general  division  again  until  1685,  November  19,  and  this  was  only 
of  some  remaining  meadows,  amounting  to  287^  acres,  in  various 
places.  The  allotments  were  to  be  laid  out  by  Jonathan  Danforth  ; 
and  Ensign  Hill  and  Sergeant  Manning  were  to  aid  him,  as  a  com- 
mittee, "fully  empowered  to  determine  all  matters  of  difflculty." 
The}'  were  "to  begin  at  flag  meadow  be3ond  Nuttin's  pond  :  Then 
over  Concord  river  upon  _y^  
spangs  beginning  at  brook  meadow  cove  : 
*  Then  in  }•*  great  swamp  *  bv  Gilson's  hill.  Then  that  peece 
over  Shawshin  river  below  Strongwater  brook.  Then  sace  meadow, 
beginning  next  3-^  great  swamp  *  to  the  dam  place  appointed  above 
the  pond.  Then,  b}'  y^  sides  of  y*"  great  pond,  beginning  at  y"  upper 
end.  Then  in  y*  mill  swamp  that  was  drowned.  *  Then  on  the 
north  side  fox  brook.  *  Then  below  Sergt  Manning's  meadow, 
upon  the  great  brook."  A  list  follows,  giving  all  the  original  rights, 
with  the  changes  which  had  been  made.  Another  list  gives  the 
names  in  the  order  of  drawing,  the  amount  of  each  man's  "privi- 
ledge,"  and  the  number  of  acres  drawn.  This  second  list  follows, 
omitting  the  last  item,  and  arranging  the  names  alphabetically'  : — 
No.                                                                  Aure  privi ile-e. 
N'. 
Acre  privilegf 
36     Baldwin,  John                           8          55     Dutton. 
,  
John 
5 
37     Bracket,  John.  &  his  father    13                      D  Litton. , Thomas,  Jun.               5 
8    Bracket,  Peter                             5 
46     Farley. 
27     Chamberline.  WilMam                                          Caleb                               5 
6i 
2    Farley.  George                        10 
61     Champney,  Daniel                     5           16     Farley.  Samuel                          5 
38     Crosbee,  Simon                         8          39     Farmer , Edward                     5 
11     Danforth,  Jonathan,  Sen.       15            28     Fassitt,   Patrick                             5 
60     Danforth.  Jonathan,  Jun.        5 
56 
Foster.   Josepli                              8 
42     Duukin.  John                             5          29 
French. ,           Jacob 
15 
54     Durrant,  John 
2d 
5    French. . Jolin                                10 
 - 232 - 
LAND    DISTRIBtJTION.  —  CONTINUED.                  209 
No.  Acre  privi 
5!)  French.  Widow 
26  Frost,  James 
9  Frost,  Samuel 
215  (irvmes.  George 
48  Ilii!.  .lonatlian 
57  Hill.  Nathaniel 
22  Jliil.  Fnsii-n  Ralph 
51  Jeffs.  Henry,  Sen. 
47  .It'tfs,  Henry,  Jun. 
45  Kidder.  James 
02  Kidder  family 
21  Kittredge,  John 
41  Kittredge  [no  name'] 
;M  Levistone.  John 
44  jManning,  Sergt.  Samuel 
35  Marshall.  Sergt.  John 
48  Moore,  Golden 
15  Parker,  Benjamin 
25  Parker.  John 
52  Paterson.  James 
4  Pattin.  Thomas 
49  Poulter.  John 
32  Piehardson,  Sergt.  The  : 
Acre  privilege. 
105  
5 
12^ 
r2h 
10 
10 
5 
5i) 
0 
6 
105  
5 
0 
138  
5 
10     Rogei's,  John,  Sen. 
40     Rogers.  John,  Jun. 
,58     ^  "■     " 
Rogers,  Nathaniel 
Rogers.  Thomas 
Ross,  Thomas 
Sanders.  John 
Shed.  Daniel,  Sen. 
Shed,  Daniel.  Jun. 
Shed,  John 
Shed,  Zaehary 
Shildon,  John 
Stearns,  Isaac 
Stearns,  John 
Steai'ns.  Samuel 
13  Tay.  Nathaniel 
3    Tom])son,  Lieut.  Joseph 
14  Toothaker,  Roger 
19    Trull.  John 
31     Trull,  Samuel 
12     Whiting,  Mr.  Samuel 
24     AValker.  Joseph 
50     Wilson,  John 
33 
10 
105  
5 
10 
5 
5 
6 
2i 
10 
This  list  includes  sixty-five  lots  ;  but  for  some  reason  the  last 
three  are  not  numbered.  The  total  amounts  to  fort3'-seveu  ten-acre 
lots.  Bacon,  Lane,  and  some  others  did  not  share  in  this  allotment. 
They  represented  rights  acquired  b^-  original  purchase  of  earl}' 
grants,  and  not  town  grants,  and  no  claim  on  their  part  to  share 
in  the  common  lands  was  recognized.  But  the  lapse  of  ^-ears  gave 
force  to  such  a  claim.  After  they  had  shared  for  a  generation  in  the 
common  Ijurdens  and  sacrifices  which  the  settlement  had  involved, 
the  distinction  as  to  the  origin  of  their  titles  lost  much  of  its  force, 
and  it  was  natural  that  the}'  should  claim  a  share  in  the  lands  which 
remained  to  be  divided.  The  earl}-  proprietors,  however,  and  their 
successors  of  course  questioned  this  claim. 
The  adjustment  of  the  lines  west  of  Concord  River  was  made  by 
the  committee  of  the  C4eneral  Court,  in  1701,  [see  p.  81  above].  A 
meeting  was  held,  1702,  April  G,  "to  consider  of  the  most  righteous 
way  for  the  diuideing  of  our  undeuided  lands."  The  ownership  of 
the  various  "rights"  was  canvassed  and  recorded  with  changes  which 
had  taken  place.  ^  The  question  was  carefully  debated,  whether  the 
division  should  be  by  "  priveledges  "  onl}',  or  one-half  on  this  basis 
and  the  other  half  by  "stock  and  state."  The  majority,  both  of 
proprietors   and   of    "rights,"  ftivored   the   latter   basis.     But    the 
1  Records.    Vol.  II,  pp.  118-19. 
 - 233 - 
210  HISTORY   OF   BILLEEICA. 
question  whether  Lane,  Bacon,  and  other  citizens  should  share  with 
the  proprietors,  was  undecided,  and  action  was  dehxyed  no  doubt 
for  this  reason.  It  resulted  after  three  years  in  an  appeal  to  the 
General  Court.  The  petition,^  1705,  Ma}'  30,  is  signed  by  John 
Lane,  John  AVilson,  Thomas  Frost,  Jonathan  Bacon,  and  Thomas 
Richardson,  Jun.,  in  l)ehalf  of  themselves  and  others.  They  repre- 
sent that  the}-  have  been  niony  years  inhabitants  and  paid  their  full 
proportion  of  rates,  taxes,  and  charges,  Avith  their  neighbors,  who 
were  the  first  [)roprietors,  and  that  now  the}'  are  to  be  excluded  from 
sharing  in  a  division  of  the  common  lands.  This  course  seems  to  the 
petitioners  ''against  all  Justice  and  Equity,"  and  they  "pray  for  an 
order  which  shall  stop  the  proceeding  until  the  matter  can  be  freely 
heard  and  determined."  This  petition  was  not  limited  to  those  who 
had  no  share  ;  but  some,  like  Mr.  Richardson,  who  had  similar  claim 
to  more  than  the  small  "right"  they  had  acquired,  joined  in  it.  It 
was  ordered  that  a  "stay  be  put  to  the  Division,  till  a  hearing  be 
had  before  this  Court"  ;  and,  after  a  postponement,  decision  was 
reached,  November  16,  1705,  "that  Capt.  John  Lane  and  others,  the 
Petitioners  that  are  Fi'eeholders  ai»d  Inhabitants  of  the  said  town  of 
Bilrica,  be  Intituled  to  and  have  a  propoitionable  share  with  others, 
the  Common  Proprietors  and  Inhabitants  of  the  s"^  Town,  in  all 
future  Divisions  of  all  undivided  and  Waste  lands  belonging  to  the 
s"*  Town,  according  to  the  propoition  to  the  Town  Charges,  for  the 
space  of  seven  years  past."  And  the  town,  1707-8,  January  29, 
granted  to  the  purchasers  of  Cambridge  Church  Farm  a  ten-acre 
right,  "to  promote  and  maintain  peas  and  quietness  among  us," 
this  grant  to  be  a  final  issue  of  differences  between  them. 
This  important  point  being  settled,  the  town  was  ready  to  proceed 
to  the  allotment  of  the  extensive  tracts  of  land  which  still  remained 
common.  The  "commons,"  as  they  were  familiarly  known,  still 
included  sections  in  various  parts  of  the  town.  The  largest  was 
west  of  Concord  River,  embracing  al)out  five  thousand  acres,  or  most 
of  that  part  of  the  town.  Nearly  as  much  was  towards  Andover,  in 
the  Great  Swamp  and  vicinity,  by  IStrongwater  Brook,  and  between 
and  around  the  ponds.  Six  hundred  acres  were  between  Captain 
Lane's  farm  and  the  Shawshin  Farms,  taking  in  most  of  the  present 
village  of  Bedford.  Another  section  was  near  Nutting's  Pond  ;  and 
lastly,  Fox  Hill,  between  the  Andover  and  Long  Pond  roads,  still 
2  Lane  Papers.    See  p.  99  above. 
 - 234 - 
LAND    DISTRIBUTION.  —  CONTINUED.  211 
was  held  in  common.  In  all,  not  less  than  twelve  thousand  acres 
remained  for  distribution,  or  not  much  less  than  two  hundred  and 
fift}'  acres  for  each  ten-acre  privilege.  Captain  Lane  and  others 
who  had  gained  the  right  to  share  from  the  General  Court  seem  to 
have  received  their  entire  portion  west  of  Concord  River. 
The  first  step  was  taken,  1705,  June  11,  a  few  da^'s  later  than 
the  petition  of  Captain  Lane  and  others,  and  before  a  decision  was 
reached  upon  it.  The  agreement  then  made  was  to  divide  some  of 
the  smaller  parcels  of  "commons"  among  groups  of  proprietors  who 
would  be  best  accommodated  by  them.  The  process  was,  however, 
suspended  for  two  3'ears,  and  the  division  was  not  made  until  1707. 
The  "North  part  of  the  Center  Squadron"^  included  John  Bald- 
win, Samuel  Danforth,  John  Durant,  Thomas  Button,  Edward 
Farmer,  John  Jefts,  Samuel  Manning,  William  Patten,  David 
Rogers,  and  John  Wilson,  who  seems  to  have  acquired  the  right 
of  the  Widow  Paterson.  The  section  granted  them  was  east  of 
Long  Street,  beyond  the  lots  already  granted,  and  extending  from 
John  Trull's  land  to  Samuel  Danforth's,  beyond  the  old  Corner 
Burying-Ground,  which  was  reserved  and  appropriated  to  this  use, 
1707,  April  4. 
The  "Middle  part  of  the  scenter  squadron"  received  grants  as 
follows:  John  Button  and  Ebenezer  Fai'ley  had  "all  the  land  on 
the  Northwest  of  the  highwa}-  leading  to  Joseph  Bavis'  "  ;  Nathaniel 
Rogers  and  Enoch  Kidder  received  the  angle  on  the  south  of  the 
Rocky  Hill  Road  ;  and  north  of  that  road  ran  the  lots  of  Captain 
Banforth  and  his  son  Jonathan,  Nathan  Shed,  Mr.  Whiting,  and 
Dr.  Frost.  Captain  Banforth's  lot  was  twentj'-three  and  one-half 
acres,  "on  the  north  side  of  the  Road  downe  Stoney  Hill:  it  is 
bounded  on  the  South  by  said  Road  about  206  pole,  *  east  by  fox 
hill  about  30  pole,  *  west,  b}'  the  Road  leading  to  Joseph  Bavis', 
about  54  pole  &  a  half." 
One  reason  why  Fox  Hill  was  so  long  "common"  may  be  found 
in  this  record,*  which  is  probably  of  date  1659:  "The  Mineral 
company-  are  granted  all  such  mines  as  shall  be  b}^  them  or  their 
Asignes  found  in  the  sircomfi ranee  of  one  hundred  acors  of  land  on 
fox  hill,  the  south  eande  thereof,  the  Hill  beinge  devided  ;  as  also 
they  have  free  Liberty  for  wood  and  Timber  for  theare  use  as  there 
need  shall  require,  to  improove  about  the  said  mine  untill  it  doe 
^  Boole  of  Grants.    VoL  II,  p.  29.  *  Booh  of  Grants.    Vol.  I  (Reverse),  p.  29. 
 - 235 - 
212  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
apear  they  doc  find  nietell  ond  no  Longer."  Ti-aditions  or  suspicions 
of  mineral  wealth  to  he  found  in  this  locality  have  always  existed  ; 
but  it  has  never  been  developed  and  is  probabl.y  a  myth. 
The  ''Pond  S(|uadron"  receiv^ed  "all  the  land  upon  Bare  hill  to 
Bacon's  farme  and  between  Nutten's  pond  and  Oakes'  farme,"  and 
included  John  Blancliard,  Peter  Bracket,  John  Chamberlain,  Joseph, 
Nathan,  Simon,  and  Thomas  Crosby,  Timothy  Farley,  Joseph  Foster, 
James  Frost,  John  Needham,  Benjamin  Parker,  John  and  Zachariah 
Shed,  Isaac  Stearns,  heirs  of  Thomas  Stearns,  and  Joseph  Tompson. 
The  "Squadron  on  the  South  of  Oaks'  farme"  received  the  tract 
of  six  hundred  acres  between  the  "AVinthrop  farm,"  Concord,  the 
Shawshin  Farms  and  Wiuthrop's  "great  meadow,"  and  the  Oakes 
Farm  (see  p.  41  above).  The  first  lot  was  granted  to  Lieut.  Samuel 
Hill,  including  sevent3'-six  acres  bounded  two  hundred  and  fort}-  rods 
on  Concord  aud  sixty-four  rods  on  "Winthroi)  Farm.  The  main  street 
in  Bedford  was  afterwards  laid  on  the  north  line  of  this  lot,  and  the 
"old  line"  of  Concord  is  n<)w  to  be  traced  sixty-four  I'ods  south 
of  that  street  and  parallel  with  it.  The  second  lot  of  twenty-three 
acres  was  Fassett's,  and  became  the  property  of  Israel  Putnam,  as 
did  the  third,  granted  to  Joseph  Hill.  The  fourth  lot  was  ninety-one 
acres,  laid  out  to  Jonathan  Hill,  next  to  Oakes  Farm  ;  and  others 
following  southerly  were  Nathaniel  Hill,  Joseph  Farley.  Daniel  Hill, 
John  Stearns,  Henr}'  Jefts,  John  Parker,  and  Job  Lane,  the  last 
reaching  Mr.  Page's  farm. 
Near  East  Street  a  range  of  lots  was  granted  "from  Serg'. 
Richardson's  to  the  north  end  of  Serg*.  French's  paster."  INIr. 
Fi^ench,  living  near  the  foot  of  "rock}'  hill,"  had  that  "pies  of 
land  between  the  three  paths."  Others  who  shared  here  were 
Jacob  and  John  French,  Fphraim  Kidder,  John  ]\[arsliall,  Nathaniel 
Patten,  Thomas  Kichardson,  Thomas  Ross,  and  John  Sheldon. 
John  Wilson  had  a  lot  near  his  mill  pond;  flohn  Farmer  and 
Thomas  Pollard  had  lots  near  Mr.  I'ollard's  ;  Dr.  John  Kittredge 
had  his  two  divisions  beyond  Strongwater  Brook  near  the  Shawshin  ; 
and  John  Sanders,  John  Dunkin,  Timothy  Farley,  John  Levistone, 
Samuel  and  Thomas  Rogers,  and  Roger  Toothaker  had  "their 
diuision  between  John  Sanders  his  lott  &  Mr.  Winthrop's  farme." 
The  second  division  was  made  in  the  spring  of  1708,  and 
embraced  lands  in  the  Tewksbury  part  of  the  town.'  The  largest 
section  was  along  Andover  line,  and  a  rangeway  was  run  parallel 
6  Grants.    Vol.  II,  pp.  33-37. 
 - 236 - 
LAND    DISTRIBUTION.      •CONTINUED.                   213 
with  that  line  and  about  eighty  rods  distant,  dividing  two  rows  of 
lots  which  were  laid  laid  between  Andover  and  the  Great  Swamp. 
East  of  this  double  row  of  lots  apparently  was  another,  extending 
from  Andover  line  southerly  to  the  Shawshin  meadows  ;  a  third  was 
between  the  latter  and  Strongwater  Brook,  and  a  fourth  in  the  same 
vicinity.  A  fifth  range  was  beyond  the  Shawshin,  and  i^  sixth 
between  the  ponds  ;  and  lots  near  Content  lirook  completed  the 
circuit.  Eighty-one  proprietors  shared,  as  did  Colonel  Foxcroft  and 
Daniel  Stone,  of  Cambridge. 
The  following  list  gives  names,  the   ''acre-rights"  belonging  to 
each,  and  the   number  of  acres  receiA'ed,  omitting  fractious:  — 
Acre  rights 
5 
■4 
24 
i 
4 
5 
182i 
24 
10 
n 
5 
5 
8 
5 
10 
0 
10 
10 
5 
10 
5 
5 
24 
75 
174 
5 
H 
H 
154 
10 
'h 
Bi-.H-kot.  Peter 
BiiUlwin,  -Foliu 
BaUlvviii,  .lonithau 
IJaldwiu.  Thoinas 
Brown,  (ireoi-t^f^ 
Chaiiihcrlahi,  .lohn 
Crosbey.  Mr  .Simon 
Crosbey,  Xatlian 
Crosbey.  Thomas 
Danforth.  Capt  Jonathn 
Danforth.  Jonatlni 
Danforth,  Samuel 
Dunkin,  John 
Dutton,  .lohn 
Dutton,  Thomas,  Jun' 
Farley,  Caleb 
Farley,  Ebenezer 
Farley,  Josej)h 
Farley.  Tiniotliy 
Fanner,  Edward 
P'asset,  Patrick      . 
Foster,  Jijseph 
Foxcroft,  Thomas 
French,  Jacob 
French,  John 
French,  William 
Frencli,  Et  AVilliam,  lielrs 
Frost,  Dea  James 
Frost,  James,  Jun 
Frost,  Dr  Samuel 
Frost,  Thomas 
Grimes.  George 
Ilaile,  William,  heirs 
Hill.  Daniel 
Hill,  Jonathan 
Hill.  Joseph 
Hill,  Nathaniel 
Hill,  Palpli 
Hill,  Samuel 
Jefts,  Hemy 
Jefts,  John 
Kidder,  Enoch 
Acres.                 Acre 
risht.. 
47                                                                              Acres. 
5       Kidder,  Ephraini 
47 
;}7 
5       Kidder,  James 
47 
2;{ 
24 
Kirtridg,  James 
23 
2.1 
5 
Kittridg-,  Dr  John                   46 
2.*) 
47          10       Eane,  ,Job                                            93 
5       Eevistone.  Jolm 
47 
107            5       Manning.  Ens  Samuel 
47 
23 
24 
Manning,  William                    32 
23            0      Marshal.  John 
55 
93 
<1l 
Needhain.  John                       55 
46            5      Parker.  Benjamin 
47 
40            5      Parker,  Jolm 
47 
4()               3       Patten,  Nathaniel 
28 
74 
5      Patten,  Thomas 
47 
40            5      Patten,  William                        47 
03            4 
Pollard.  'I'homns 
37 
40            5       Kichardson,  Tliomas               4() 
40            5       IJichardson,  Thomas,  Jr        40 
40 
4      Rogers,  Daniel 
37 
03 
5       Rogers,  Natlianiel 
46 
40            5      Rogers,  Samuel                      46 
74 
5      Rogers,  Thomas,  heirs 
40 
80 
5      Ross,  Thomas 
47 
46 
93            5       Sanders,  John                          46 
5      Shed,  Daniel,  Jun 
47 
40            5      Shed,  John 
47 
93            4      Shed,  Natlian 
37 
47 
4      Shed,  Zechariah 
37 
55          10       Sheldon,  John                         93 
47 
47            5       Spaldin,  Dea  Andrew           46 
5      Stearns,  Isaac 
47 
47 
10       Stearns,  Lt  John                     93 
23            5       Stearns.  Thomas,  heirs 
47 
72                      Stone.  Daniel                              50 
162            5      Tompson,  Joseiih 
74 
46 
5       Toothacher,  Dr  Roger 
74 
.58 
10        AValker,  Joseph 
78 
58 
5       Whiting,  Oliver 
144            5      Whiting,  Mr  8"                          31 
43 
93            5      W' ilson^  Lt  John                      46 
46 
6      W'ilson,  John,  Jr                        56 
96 
 - 237 - 
214                          HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
The  same  proprietors  received  grant  of  the  "great  swamp"  two 
3'ears  later;"  it  was  not  divided,  but  sold  in  bullv  not  man}'  years 
after. 
The  lands  west  of  Concord  River  were  divided  in  1708.  Here  a 
rangewa}'  ran  parallel  with  the  Chelmsford  line,  about  half-a-mile 
distant,  ^following  also  its  westerly  deflection.  The  familiar  "range- 
way  road"  follows  nearly  this  old  line,  along  which,  right  and  left, 
ranges  of  lots  were  laid  out.  The  first  range,  beginning  at  Broad 
meadow,  was  betAveen  Chelmsford  line  and  the  rangeway  ;  the 
second  range,  southeast  of  the  rangeway  ;  the  third,  running  from 
"treble  cove"  to  the  river  and  Winning's  Pond,  southeast  of  the 
first  and  second  ;  the  fourth,  along  the  south  line  of  Chelmsford, 
and  designated  as  "west  of  the  P'  and  2""^  ranges"  :  the  fifth,  over 
against  this,  is  called  "the  south  range  of  the  last  two  ranges." 
The  following  list  gives  in  order  the  grantee  and  the  number 
of  acres  in  each  lot  : — 
First  Eange  :                                              Crosby,  Thomas                            17 
Fasset,  Patrick                                    40         Frost,  Thomas,  Jun.                           19 
Dutton.  Thomas 
Grhnes,  William                                 35          Grimes.  George                               38 
m    Frost,  Samuel                                  19 
Kidder,  James                                  20          Pollard,  Thomas                            29 
Hill,  Lieut.  Samuel 
62 
J  
efts,  John                                         24 
Ross,  Thomas 
48 
Farmer.  John                                    27 
Fitch,  Samuel                                             Richardson,  Andrew                     29 
Stearns,  Lt.  John 
97 
Ditson,  Hugh 
47 
Stearns.  Thomas,  heirs                        20         Chamberlain,  Clement 
Spaldino^,  Dea.  Andrew                 20          Hill,  Corp".  Jonathan                      21 
31 
French,  Jacob                                    49 
Davis,  Joseph 
27 
Second  Bange  : 
Frost,  Dea.  Jnmes                           54          Farmer,  Edward 
Kittredge,  Dr.  John                         41          Dunkin.  John                                    72 
Pollard,  Thos.,  by  right  of  Hale    10          Richardson,  Thomas,  Jun.               209  
Patten.  Thomas                             30          Parker.  John,  heirs                                20 
Blanchard,  John                               31          Farley.  Caleb.  Sen. 
Durrant,  John                                   10          Corneal,  Peter                                       60 
16 
Page.  Nathaniel 
62 
Hill,  Joseph 
36 
Baldwin,  Jonathan                          28          Shed,  Daniel                                         21 
Hill.  Jonathan,  Jun. 
28          Dutton,  John 
30 
Marshall,  John 
31 
Hill,  Samuel.  Jun.                                20 
Kittredge,  James 
Bacon.  Jonathan                              10          Richardson.  Nathaniel                        7 
47 
Crosby,  Simon 
Stearns,  Isaac                                         33          Walker,  Joseph                                90 
74 
Shed,  Xathan                                   39         Crosby.  Nathan 
27 
Whiting,  Mr.  Samuel                      20          Parker,  Benjamin                            22 
Baldwin,  Thomas 
28 
Baldwin.  John 
32 
Sheldon.  John 
44         Lane.  Capt.  John                           127 
Kidder,  Ephi-aim                                 ?          Shed,  John 
48 
Bacon,  Nathaniel 
34 
Brown,  George                                46 
6  Grants.    Vol.  II,  p.  319. 
 - 238 - 
LAND    DISTRIBUTION.     CONTINUED. 
215 
Simon,  negro 
Tonipson.  (!"apt.  Joseph 
Hill.  Ralph 
Rogers.  Daniel 
Rit-lianlson.  Thomas 
Frost.  Dr.  Samuel 
Crosbj-.  Corpi'.  Josiah 
Hill.  Corp".  Jonathan 
Third  Ennge,  hcginninrj  at  Blood 
farms  : 
Hill,  Nathaniel 
Bacon.  .Josiah 
French.  .John 
Crosby.  Joseph 
Danforth.  Capt.  Jonathan 
Hosley,  James 
Kittredge.  Daniel 
Foster.  Joseph 
Kidder,  Enoch 
Frost,  Thomas 
Patten,  William 
Rogers,  Samuel 
Chamberlain.  John 
Trull,  Sanuiel.  heirs 
Wilson,  Lt.  John 
The  last  lot  is  between  the  road,  the 
river,  and  the  pond. 
17 
(U            Fourth  Range,  west  of  the  First  and 
:V2                                          Second  Manges  : 
Farley.  Ebenezer 
30 
16 
23          Hill,  John                                         10 
55          Rogers.  Xathaniel                             20 
Lane,  Job                                             40 
20          Blanchard.  John                               21 
39          Patten.  Nathaniel                              22 
Danforth.  Jonathan,  Jun.                46 
's 
Durrant.  Thomas 
Bacon,  Jonathan                              12 
33 
17          Manning,  William                             16 
38          Sanders.  John 
43 
40         French.  William 
43          Farley.  Caleb,  Jun.                            32 
21 
77 
Jefts.  Henry 
29          French.  Lt.  William,  heirs                54 
25                                                                                     45 
74 
45 
Paterson.  James,  heirs 
31 
Fifth  Range,  ''south  of  two  last 
24 
ranges"'  : 
32         Manning,  Ens.  Samuel 
41          Shed,  Zachariali                                   50 
18 
20          Richardson,  Stephen 
20          Wilson,  John                                    34 
74          Farley.  George                                 25 
29 
Hill,  Daniel 
Whiting,  Oliver                                    31 
27 
Toothaker,  Dr.  Roger                    24 
Hunt.  Dr.  Samuel                          105 
Patten,  Kendall 
13 
A  lot  "for  the  Ministry"  was  laid  out,  1708,  November  13, 
consisting  of  forty-eight  acres,  "south  of  the  road  to  longhill 
meadow";  and,  when  this  division  w^as  completed,  the  town  sold 
five  hundred  acres  remaining  in  the  remote  southwest  to  Captain 
William  Reed,  of  Cambridge.  In  February,  1713-14,  a  part  of  the 
"great  swamp"  was  granted  to  the  proprietors  ;  and,  in  1718,  a  list 
of  proprietors  and  rights  is  given  (Grants,  vol.  ii,  p.  313)  for  "a 
draught  of  the  lots  on  the  land  in  the  scenter  of  the  town "  ;  but  no 
record  is  made  of  the  lots,  which  must  have  been  small.  The  same 
is  true  of  "a  second  Diuition  of  scirts  of  land,"  in  1719,  and  of 
"an  account  of  the  small  tract  of  land  laid  out  in  the  centre  of  the 
town  of  Billerica,  May  6,  1719,"  though  the  eight3--one  proprietors 
are  all  named  as  above  in  each  case. 
In  February,  1722-3,  "the  quadron  south  of  Okes"  received  a 
grant  of  sixty-one  acres  between  mill-meadow  and  the  long  pond, 
"to  make  up  their  first  Divition,"  which  is  described  above  ;  and,  in 
1731,  a  section  remaining  of  Fox  Hill  was  disposed  of.  Description 
of  the  lots  in  this  distribution  may  be  found  in  the  Records. 
 - 239 - 
216  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
Ill  all  the  earl}'  years  no  distinction  is  made  between  "town"  and 
"proprietors"  in  the  Records,  but,  as  the  non-proprietors  multiplied, 
meetings  of  the  proprietors  are  held  and  record  is  made  separateW, 
but  still  in  the  town  books.  In  1740,  April  4,  such  a  meeting  voted 
"to  make  sale  of  all  the  slips  of  land  that  may  be  found  in  Billerica 
(or  that  was  formerly  Billerica),  tliat  belonged  to  the  propriety." 
A  year  later  the  treasurer  was  granted  fourteen  shillings  which  were 
in  the  treasury,  for  his  services  in  "dividing  and  paying  out  to  each 
proprietor  his  proportion  that  came  by  the  late  sale  of  slips  of  pro- 
priety land."  The  sum  was  £48,  or  "two  shillings  to  each  acre 
right."  A  few  other  records  not  imjiortant  are  found  ;  and  the  last 
one  occurs,  17o5,  February  3,  when  report  was  made  that  there 
were  £60  in  bank,  and  the  ti'easurer,  Josiah  Bowers,  was  instructed 
"to  pa}'  out  to  each  proprietor  two  shillings  and  two  pence,  Old 
Tenor,  upon  an  acre  Right." 
So  ended  almost  exactly'  a  century  from  its  beginning  the  town's 
care  for,  and  distribution  of,  its  common  lands.  The  questions 
involved  in  this  charge  had  been  many  and  delicate,  and  the  wisdom 
of  the  fathers  in  dealing  with  them  should  be  recognized.  The}^ 
w^ere  not  lavish  or  parsimonious  in  the  use  of  their  land  fund,  but 
employed  it  in  a  proper  and  generous  "encouragement"  of  such  as 
bore  the  burden  of  la^'ing  the  foundations,  while  they  guarded  it 
from  any  unjust  appropriation  by  individuals.  The  record  proves 
them  true  and  honest  men. 
The  two  "Land-Grant"  volumes  of  Records  give  minute  details 
of  the  location  and  bounds  of  all  these  grants,  grouped  under  the 
names  of  persons  receiving  them  ;  and  the  alphabetical  indexes 
make  it  easy  to  trace  what  every  man  had.  Many  highways  and 
byways  are  also  described,  a  large  part  of  which  have  been  long 
disused  and  forgotten  ;  and  the  account  given  in  chap,  vi  contains 
most  which  can  be  gathered  of  present  interest  on  this  subject. 
Those  who  have  occasion  can  trace  man}-  details,  and  the  material  is 
here  for  an  early  map  of  the  town,  locating  ranges,  roads,  and  a 
large  proportion  of  individual  lots  with  substantial  exactness.  It  is 
to  be  hoped  that  some  son  of  the  old  town,  with  tact  as  surveyor 
and  antiquarian,  will  yet  find  congenial  emplo3-ment  in  retracing  the 
work  of  Jonathan  Danforth  and  his  son  Samuel  and  constructing 
such  a  historic  map  of  Ancient  Billerica. 
 - 240 - 
CHAPTER    XII. 
D  I  S IM  E  M  B  E  R  M  E  N  T  . 
As  the  population  increased  in  the  more  remote  parts  of  the 
town,  questions  of  division  arose.  Convenience  of  public  worship 
was  the  controlling  principle  in  shaping  the  earl}'  towns,  and  the 
same  principle  demanded  new  adjustments.  But  the  demand  was 
one  which  would  naturally  be  unwelcome,  and  met  with  debate  and 
oppositioif.  After  seventy-five  years  the  process  began,  and  did  not 
cease  until  the  old  town  was  shoi'n  of  more  than  half  of  her  ancient 
territory.  The  earliest  movement  towards  this  end  was  made,  1725, 
December  4,  in  "a  petition  of  .Jonathan  Bowers,  Samuel  Hunt,  and 
divers  others.  Dwellers  on  the  Land  called  Wamesick  Purchase  and 
Wintlu'op's  farm,  wc''  lands  ly  adjacent  to  Billerica,  between  Pau- 
tucket  and  Chelmsford  Line,  praying,  for  reasons  therein  assigned, 
to  be  erected  into  a  separate  and  distinct  Town."^  This  petition 
was  referred  to  tlie  next  session  of  the  General  Court,  but  there  is 
no  record  of  action  upon  it.  It  was  probably  abandoned,  in  conse- 
(jfuence  of  the  successful  opposition  of  Chelmsford,  which  sought  and 
secured  the  annexation  of  that  larger  part  of  the  Wamesit  Purchase, 
which  was  on  the  west  side  of  Concord  River,  the  whole  Purchase 
being  nearl}'  coextensive  with  the  present  bounds  of  Lowell  south 
of  the  Merrimack.  The  petition  of  Chelmsford  for  this  annexation 
was  granted,  172G,  June  13.- 
Tlie  friends  of  the  earlier  project  did  not,  hovveA^er,  abandon  their 
efforts,  and  were  so  far  successful  that  the  General  Court,  1729, 
April  9,"'  considered  favorably  a  bill  to  establish  Wameset  Parish, 
with  these  bounds  :    ' '  
the  line  to  begin  at  Concord  River,  between 
1  Massachusetts  Records.    Vol.  XIH,  p.  53. 
2  
Massachusetts  Records.    Vol.  XIII,  p.  155. 
3  
Massachusetts  Records.    Vol.  XIV,  p.  242. 
 - 241 - 
218  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
the  lands  of  John  Rogers,  jr.,  and  Enoch  Kidder,  and  so  on  that 
line  to  the  Way  leading  to  Wintlu'op  farm,  so  called"  ;  thence  on  a 
"strait  line  to  the  S.  E.  end  of  Prospect  Hill,  six  score  rods  north  of 
the  Honse  of  James  Kittredge,  continuing  the  same  line  to  Andover 
Line";  then  following  that  line  and  Merrimack  River  to  "Chelms- 
ford Old  Line,  (which  was  the  Bound  between  the  said  Town  & 
Wamasset  or  Indian  Purchase,)  keeping  said  Line  to  Concord  river, 
to  a  stake  called  Patucket  or  Wamasset  ;  thence  crossing  Concord 
River  to  the  bound  first  mentioned,  which  includes  Wamasset  or  the 
Whole  Indian  Purchase."  Final  action  was  not  taken  at  this  session, 
and,  in  December,  a  proposal  to  revive  the  measure  and  incorporate 
Wamesit  Precinct  was  fjivorably  considered  and  acted  upon  b^-  both 
Houses,  "the  former  order  of  this  Court  referring  to  Wamasset 
Purchase  Lands  notwithstanding."  This  proviso  seems  intended 
to  repeal  the  above  act  of  annexation  to  Chelmsford  ;  but,  if  so 
intended,  the  failure  of  the  Wamesit  Precinct  was  probably  held  to 
revive  its  force.  The  Precinct  was  required,  within  three  years,  to 
erect  and  finish  a  good  and  suitable  house  for  public  worship,  "where 
the  committee  that  have  already  viewed  the  said  lands  shall  appoint," 
and  "settle  a  learned  orthodox  minister  of  good  convc>rsation,  and 
make  Provision  for  his  comfortable  and  honorable  support."  This 
was  not  done,  and  Wamesit  failed  to  secure  a  place  among  the 
municipalities  of  the  State. 
Bedfoud.  In  the  opposite  direction  the  movement  was  more 
successful.  The  General  Court  received,  1728,  June  18,*  "the 
petition  of  Andrew  Watkins,  John  Wilkins,  and  John  AVilson,  and 
a  considerable  number  of  other^,  setting  forth  their  great  difficulties 
by  reason  of  their  distance  from  the  meeting  houses  in  Concord  and 
Billerica,  to  which  the}'  belong,  and  that  they  have  been  necessitated 
to  get  a  minister  among  them  for  the  winter  season,  and  therefore 
praying  that  the}'  ma}'  be  set  off  a  separate  Township."  The  peti- 
tion was  referred  to  the  next  session,  with  order  of  notification  to 
the  Towns  of  Billerica  and  Lexington.  In  July  the  Court,  on  farther 
petition,  directed  a  committ.ee,  already  sent  to  examine  the  lines  of 
the  proposed  Wamesit  Parish,  to  extend  their  labors  and  go  over  the 
proposed  bounds  of  Bedford. 
■•  
Massachusetts  Records.  Vol.  XIV,  p.  91.  Mr.  Slmttuck  {History  of  Concord,  p.  255,) 
mentions  a  petition,  dated  1725,  as  if  it  related  to  Bedford.  But  he  ijrobably  referred  to  the 
petition  quoted  in  the  first  paragraph  of  this  chapter,  mistaking  the  Identity  of  the  "  AVin- 
throp's  farm"  there  mentioned,  which  was  in  fact  the  farm  near  Wamesit. 
 - 242 - 
DISMEMBERMENT.  219 
Billerica  had  heard  of  the  proposal,  and  as  earlj  as  May  14, 
1728,  voted,  that  the}-  "will  act  no  farther  at  this  time  on  the 
petition  of  the  southerh'  part  of  the  town  as  to  their  being  set  off 
as  a  Township."  The  matter  came  up  again,  January  27,  and  the 
town  chose  a  committee  of  eleven,  who  were  "Impowered  to  manage 
the  affair  Referring  to  our  brethren,  the  petitioners  of  the  southward 
part  of  our  Town,  according  to  their  best  discretion,  in  agreeing 
with  said  petitioners  at  home  concerning  the  line  between  the  Town 
and  them  (if  they  can),  but  if  not,  then  to  draw  up  what  they  think 
proper  by  way  of  petition  to  the  General  Court  and  to  choose  two 
men  out  of  said  committee  to  manage  s'^  affair  at  said  Court."  This 
committee  was  not  able  to  agree  upon  the  line  of  division,  and 
petitioned  the  Court,  1729,  April  2,  "praying  that  the  new  town, 
proposed  to  be  erected  in  the  Count}-  of  Middlesex,  to  be  called 
Bedford,  and  which  is  principally  taken  out  of  the  town  of  Billerica, 
may  not  be  extended  according  to  the  lines  set  forth  for  making 
said  Town,  but  that  some  of  the  families  may  remain  in  the  town  of 
Billerica."  The  petition,  however,  was  dismissed,  and  Bedford  was 
incorporated,  1729.  September  23.  The  line  of  separation  began  at 
the  Two  Brothers,  on  Concord  River,  either  following  the  Winthrop 
Farm  line  or  more  [)rol)abh'  diverging  a  little  to  the  north  of  it,  and 
thence  extending  nearly  as  at  present  to  Woburn,  now  Burlington. 
It  was  changed,  by  consent  of  the  two  towns,  in  17G6,  so  as  to 
transfer  Edward  Stearns  and  his  farm  to  Bedford.  The  change  in 
the  line  began  at  what  was  known  as  Page's  Corner,  passed  between 
the  land  of  Lieut.  Isaac  Stearns  and  Edward  Stearns,  came  to  the 
brook  "al)out  two  pole  southwest  from  the  saw  mill,"  and  followed 
the  brook  to  Concord  River. 
The  claim  that  Bedford  was  principally^  taken  out  of  Billerica 
has  been  overlooked,  but  is  correct.  The  old  line  with  Concord 
was  parallel  with  the  present  Main  Street  in  Bedford  and  sixt^'-four 
rods  south  of  it,  as  shown  above  (p.  212).  It  is  still  easily  traced, 
crossing  the  depot  street  at  the  Merriam  place,  nearh'  touching  the 
railroad  at  the  curve  east  of  the  station,  and  marked  in  the  swamp 
be3-ond  b}'  a  pair  of  tall  pine  trees.  Its  easterly  point  is  shown  in 
the  record  of  a  committee,  February  11,  1699-1700.  They  "began 
at  Concord  southeast  corner,  which  was  a  stake  and  stones  about  it, 
standing  on  the  southeast  of  Shawshin  River  about  forty  poles  from 
it."  This  point  would  be  very  near  an  ancient  Page  house,  standing 
pn  the  old  road  south  of  the  main  road  to  Lexington,  and  on  the 
 - 243 - 
220  HISTORY    OF    BILLEIUCA. 
County  Atlas  of  1875,  marked  by  the  name  of  Bronnan.  Westward 
of  the  cedar  swamp,  where  the  marks  could  not  he  found,  the  com- 
mittee ran,  by  mutual  agreement,  north  fift3-three  degrees  west  to 
Concord  River.  This  line  includes  about  three-fifths  of  Bedford. 
Of  the  families  transferred  no  list  is  known  to  remain.  Of  the  first 
church  members  Mr.  Shattuck,'  with  sufficient  probability,  credits 
these  names  to  Billerica  :  Obed  Abbott,  Jonathan  Bacon,  Thomas 
Dinsmore,  Samuel  Fitch,  Jacob  Kendall,  Benjamin  Kidder,  Job 
Lane,  John  Lane,  Christopher  Page,  Nathaniel  Page,  and  Israel 
Putnam  ;  and  Josiah  Fassett  should  doubtless  be  added.  Of  other 
citizens  there  was  John  Wilson,  and  probably  more  than  as  man}' 
others,  younger  members  of  the  same  families  and  of  other  families. 
Of  the  division  of  the  property  of  Billerica  we  have  an  approximate 
assurance.  The  Province  tax  assessed  in  172D  amounted  to  £125, 
5s.,  8f^,  of  which  the  part  belonging  to  Bedford  was  £18,  12s.,  3d. 
Samuel  Fitch  was  the  first  town  clerk,  and  Israel  Putnam  Avas  the 
first  constable  of  the  town  and  the  first  deacon  of  the  church. 
TKWKsr.URY.  The  success  of  the  Bedford  petition  encouraged 
a  renewal  of  the  movement  in  the  north  part  of  the  town,  but 
Chelmsford  held  all  west  of  the  Concord  River  so  firmly  that 
the  i)roposal  took  a  turn  farther  eastward.  The  consciousness  of 
separate  interests  appears  frequently  in  references  to  the  inhabitants 
of  \\'inthrup  Fu-in.  In  17.'31  they  prepared  a  draft  and  laid  it 
before  the  town  of  a  road  which  they  desired,  and  received  favorable 
answer.  In  1733,  May  13,  they  asked  the  town  to  ''erect  a  meeting 
house  in  the  center  of  the  town,  or  so  as  to  accommodate  the 
northerly  part  of  the  town,  upon  the  Town's  cost,  or  set  them  ofi', 
so  that  the}'  may  maintain  preaching  among  themselves."  This  the 
town  was  hardly  ready  to  grant  ;  but  they  had  discovered  that  it 
was  useless  to  oppose  the  separation,  and  a  town  meeting  was  held, 
December  19,  at  which  the  above  request  was  renewed,  or,  as  an 
alternative,  that  the  town  would  "please  to  set  them  oft',  with 
two-thirds  of  the  land  lying  between  Andover  and  Billerica  meeting 
house,  from  AVilmington  line  to  Concord  River,  for  a  Township." 
Others  desired  that  the  organization  should  be  a  "Precinct,  for 
their  better  accommodation  in  public  Avorship."  At  this  meeting, 
a  committee,  consisting  of  JMr.  Samuel  Danforth,  Lieutenant  Daniel 
Kittredge,  Lieut.  Joseph  Hill,  Mr.   Samuel  Hunt,  Jr.,  and  Lieut. 
6  History  of  Concord,  p.  263. 
 - 244 - 
DISMEMBERMENT.                               221 
Joseph  Kidder,  was  appointed  to  "view  the  land"  and  report,  which 
they  did,  January  9,  1780-4,  and  the  town  voted,  ''that  the  northerly- 
and  northeasterly  [)art  of  the  Town,  according  to  their  petition,  be 
set  oti'  as  a  Township,  (irantino-  them  two-thirds  of  the  land  from 
Andover  line  to  our  meeting-  lionse,  by  a  parallel  line  with  said 
Andover  line,  extending  from  Concord  River  to  A\'ilmington  line, 
(if  the  inhabitants  on  the  southeasteily  side  of  Shawshin  River  be 
willing  to  join  with  them)." 
This  final  condition  called  out  a  petition  from  Samuel  Hunt  and 
others  to  the  General  Court,  '•'i)raying  an  absolute  grant  of  this 
Court  for  their  being  made  a  Towne  with  these  bounds,"  or  the 
appointment  of  a  committee  to  examine  and  report.  The  latter 
was  done,  v>'ith  the  result  that  Tewksbur}-  was  Incorporated,  1734, 
December  23.  The  new  town  was  taken  wholly-  from  Billerica, 
receiving  in  round  numbers  nine  thousand  acres  of  the  twenty-five 
thousand  which  remained  after  the  separation  of  Bedford,  which  had 
taken  nearly  or  quite  foiu'  thousand.  The  following  list  of  families 
included  in  Tewksburv  is  imperfect,  but  will  have  interest:  — 
Brown,  Joseph 
Brown.  William 
Fanner,  Eichanl 
Farmer.  Thomas 
Freneli,  John 
French,  Thomas 
Frost.  Daniel 
Frost.  Edmund 
Frost,  Joseph 
Hall,  IJichard 
Hall,  Samuel 
Haseltine,  Samuel 
Haseltine,  Stephen 
Hunt,  Jeremiah 
Hunt,  John 
Hunt,  Joseph 
Hunt.  Peter 
Hunt.  Samuel 
Kiddei'.  Eplnaim 
Kittredge.  Daniel 
Kittredge,  Daniel,  Jr. 
Kittredye,  Francis 
Kittredge,  James 
Kittredge,  James.  Jr. 
Kittredge.  .Tames,  ters. 
Kittredge.  Di-.  Jolni 
Kittredge,  John.  Jr. 
Kittredge.  Josepli 
Kittredge,  Thomas 
Kittredge.  William 
Levestone,  .John 
Levestone,  Seth 
Manning,  Eliphalet 
Manning,  Thomas 
Marsliall,  Thomas 
Needham,  .Tohn 
Osgood,  SteiJien 
Patten,  John 
Patten,  Kendall 
Patten,  Nathaniel 
Peacock,  Sanuiel 
Richardson,  Andrew 
Pogers,  Nathaniel 
Shed,  Nathan 
Stickney,  Ahraliam 
Trull,  Samuel 
Wliitins,-.  John 
To  these  forty-seven  names  enough  should  probably  be  added  to 
make  the  number  sixty.  'J'hey  include  all  then  on  our  list  of  the 
names  Hall,  Haseltine,  Hinit,  and  Kittredge,  a  loss  too  serious  not 
to  be  felt.  The  latter  family  had  become  so  numerous  in  that  part 
of  the  town  exclusively,  that  it  is  not  strange  the}-  have  been  credited 
with  original  settlement  there.  In  fact,  as  noted  elsewhere,  their 
ancestor,  John  Kittredge,  lived  and  died  southeast  of  Bare  Hill,  in 
Billerica. 
 - 245 - 
222  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
Wilmington  received  the  next  segment  taken  from  Billerica. 
That  town  was  incorporated,  1730,  September  25,  consisting  of  the 
north  part  of  Woburn.  The  line  on  the  west  inchided  "tlie  farm" 
of  Abraham  Jaquith,  whicli  was  partly  in  l^illeriea.  The  qnestion 
arose,  whether  the  Court  intended  to  inchide  this  part  which  was  in 
Billerica  or  to  follow  the  old  Woljurn  line:  and,  1733,  April  12, 
our  selectmen  petitioned  the  Court,  praying  "that  Billerica  "ma>'  be 
continued  in  the  uninterrupted  possession  of  her  ancient  Bound." 
After  receiving  the  answer  of  Wilmington,  the  question  was  put, 
whether,  in  the  act,  "it  was  intended  by  the  words  relating  to  Mr. 
Jaquith's  farm  to  include  the  whole  of  that  farm  in  Wilmington,  and 
it  passed  in  the  affirmative."  Some  of  the  Billerica  neighl)ors  of 
Mr.  Jaquith,  on  the  east  of  Shawshin  River,  w^re  also  inclined  to 
the  new  town;  and,  1733,  January  28,  Wilmington  voted,  "that 
the  Bildrica  neighbors  on  y*  Est  Side  of  Shawshin  River  be  annexed 
to  Wilmington  Towne  and  Towneship,  and  to  have  full  right  in  y" 
meeting-house  and  to  all  other  Towne  Priviledges,  if  y^  great  and 
Generall  Cort  see  good  to.  annex  y'"  to  us." 
In  March,  1737-8,  Billerica  received  a  "Petition  of  several 
persons,  on  the  southeasterh'  side  of  Shawshin  River,  to  be  dis- 
missed from  the  Town  of  Billerica  to  be  annexed  to  the  second 
preicenct  in  Woburn,  in  order  to  be  Erected  into  a  Township."  On 
the  question  of  granting  this  petition,  "it  passed  unanimously-  in 
the  negative."  Two  months  later^  the  General  Court  received  the 
petition  of  John,  Ebenezer,  and  Jacob  Beard,  Jonathan  Baldwin, 
Peter  Cornell,  and  Richard  Hopkins,  saying  that  their  farms  were 
convenient  to  Wilmington,  and  that  they  had  attended  worship  in 
the  meeting-house  there  since  its  erection,  as  it  was  two  miles 
nearer  than  Billerica,  and  at  some  seasons  the}'  could  not  cross  the 
Shawshin.  The^-  refer  to  the  petition  to  be  set  otf  which  Billerica 
had  refused,  and  ask  that  their  request  be  granted  without  reference 
back  to  Billerica.  To  this  petition  the  House,  in  June,  refused 
consent;  but,  in  December,  1737,  the  Council  gave  a  favorable 
hearing,  and  A'oted  that  the  petitioners  be  annexed  to  Wilmington, 
provided  the}'  should  pay  their  proportion  of  charges  for  the  meeting- 
house which  Billerica  was  building.  The  House  concurred,  and  this 
section  of  six  hundred  acres  was  transferred  to  Wilmington. 
Carlisle.     After  these  losses  on  the,  south,  north,  and  east,  it 
6  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  CXIV,  180. 
 - 246 - 
DISMEMBERMENT.  223 
remained  only  to  complete  the  cii-cuit  in  the  west  ;  but,  although 
the  movement  there  began  earl3',  it  was  not  consummated  for  more 
than  a  generation.  At  the  same  meeting,  in  March,  1  
To 7-8,  when 
the  town  refused  the  AVilmington  petition,  it  postponed  one  of 
similar  tenor  from  "several  persons  on  the  westerly  side  of  Concord 
River,"  wlio  desired  to  be  set  off  "to  Joyn  with  part  of  the  Towns 
of  Concord  and  Chelmsford,  to  be  erected  into  a  Township."  After 
debate,  the  town,  May  11,  ''voted  their  willingness  (wlien  it  was 
the  Hon'''  General  Court's  pleasure  to  erect  them  into  a  Township) 
to  set  them  off  by  the  bounds  following,  viz  :  to  begin  at  the  west 
side  of  Concord  River-  thirty  poles  below  the  bridge,  that  is,  ouer 
Concord  Riv^er,  at  Hill's  land  boating  place  bj'  the  river  ;  then 
ruiaing  with  a  streight  line  to  the  southwest  corner  of  Andrew 
Farmer's  paster  land,  on  the  east  side  of  treble  cove  path  ;  from 
thence  with  a  streight  line  to  Chelmsford  line  at  the  north  easterl}^ 
of  Jonathan  Snow's  land."  But  sixteen  years  passed  before  the 
General  Court  incorporated  Carlisle,  '^  
1754,  April  19,  as  a  district 
of  Concord.  In  1755  Billerica  refused  the  consent  once  given  to  the 
separation,  and  the  elements  seem  to  have  been  inharmonious  or  the 
location  of  the  meeting-house  a  knotty  problem,  for  after  struggling 
with  their  difficulties  until  1757,  January,  the  people  in  Carlisle  were 
granted  a  dissolution  of  the  Di.strict.  In  their  request  for  this  they 
say,  *  
that  onl}'  a  small  majority  originall}'  favored  the  District,  and 
that  after  many  trials  in  various  ways  to  come  to  some  amicable 
agreement  for  l)uilding  up  the  place  all  means  fail,  and  they  apprehend 
the  utter  impossibility  of  ever  coming  into  an}'  further  agreement. 
Details  of  these  "trials"  may  be  seen  in  the  "History  of  Concord." 
Some  of  the  Cont^ord  people  had  previously  sought  to  return  to 
Concord,  but  a  petition  of  Chelmsford  and  Billerica  citizens  had 
opposed  them  ;  and  to  this  the}'  now  reply  that  Concord  was  willing 
to  receive  them  again,  and  "those  who  lived  most  remote  were  most 
anxious  to  return." 
The  dissolution  of  the  District  did  not  bring  peace,  and  a  petition 
to  the  Court  followed,  1757,  .hine  1,  bearing  fift\'-one  signatures,  of 
which  Timothy  Wilkins  is  the  fiist.  •'  The  following  Billerica  names 
occur  :  Abraham  Duren,  Widow  Mary  Duren,  Ebenezer  Hard}', 
Amos  Kidder,  John  Kidder,  Ebenezer  Kittredge,  Joseph  Monroe, 
'  
Shattuck's  History  of  Concord,  p.  321. 
8  
Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  OXVII,  204. 
9  
Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  CXVII,  290. 
 - 247 - 
224  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
Joshua  Monroe,  Nathan  Monroe,  George  Niekles,  Edward  Spalding, 
Job  Spalding,  Leonard  Spalding,  Thomas  Spalding. 
The}'  say  that  they,  "By  the  Disposal  of  the  Providence  of  that 
God  who  setteth  Bounds  to  jMeu's  Habitations,  Live  very  Remote 
from  the  INIeeting  Houses  of  the  Several  Towns  to  which  w'e 
Respectively  Belong,  Jiy  Reason  whereof  we  and  our  Families  are 
subject  to  Many  Difficulties  in  the  Discharge  of  tlie  Duty  Licumbent 
on  us;  And  Especially'  the  Great  and  hnportant  Duty  of  Attending 
upon  the  Public  Worship  of  God."  For  relief  they  ask  to  be  erected 
into  a  Townshij)  or  District,  with  such  others  as  were  included,  with 
the  "Limits  following,  that  is  to  say,  half  the  Lands  with  the  Inhal)- 
itants  on  the  same  Between  Concord  Meeting  House  and  Chelmsford 
Meeting  House,  in  this  manner,  that  There  be  made  an  East  and 
West  Line,  in  the  Centre,  between"  these  meeting-houses,  and  half 
the  land  on  each  side  this  line  towards  each  meeting-house  to  be 
included.  In  the  other  direction  a  line  was  to  be  drawn  between  the 
two  meeting-houses,  and  from  this  line  the  bounds  w^ere  to  be  two 
and  a  quarter  miles  east  and  west.  The  petitioners  had  agreed  that 
the  meeting-house  should  be  built  at  the  place  where  these  lines 
crossed,  if  a  Convenient  place  ;  if  Not,  the  Next  nearest  Convenient 
Place." 
In  March,  1760,  the  sul>ject  was  again  before  the  town,  which 
voted  to  set  off  the  inhabitants  on  the  west  side  of  Concord  River, 
b}'  the  following  line:  "Beginning  at  Clielmsford  Line,  at  a  Stake 
and  Stones  near  an  old  cellar  ;  Runing  thence  to  a  white  oak  Tree 
near  the  House  of  William  Bonner,  standing  in  the  Land  of  Asa 
Spalding,  Taking  in  s'^  Boners  ;  from  thence  Runing  in  a  straight 
Line  to  the  southwest  corner  of  W"  Shed's  Land  ;  Then  Running  a 
Strait  Line  to  the  Southwest  of  Benj''  Parker's  Barn,  and  so  on.  Still 
on  a  Straight  Line  to  Concord  Line."  But  this  permissive  action 
would  hardly  be  held  as  favorable,  proposing  to  restrict  the  limits 
of  Carlisle  and  not  allow  them  to  reach  Concord  River.  The  new 
meeting-house  was  begun  at  this  time,  but  not  finished  for  several 
years  ;  and  the  town  itself  was  only  a  name  and  an  endeavor  for 
some  3*ears  longer.  The  subject  was  revived  b^-  petition  to  the 
General  Court,  1772,  June  1.  The  petitioners  say  that  the  desired 
bounds  include  about  sevent3'-six  families,^"  and  that  they  have 
erected  a  meeting-house.     The   bounds  which  the}'  asked   were   to 
10  Massachusetts  Archives.    Vol.  CX\^II,  624. 
 - 248 - 
DISMEMBEEMEN'T.  ^25 
include  "the  house  and  land  of  Joshua  Monroe  ;  thence  east,  includ- 
ing house  and  land  of  Jonathan  Swallow  ;  still  runing  East,  including 
house  and  land  of  Amos  Kidder  ;  thence  southeast,  including  house 
and  land  of  Nathaniel  Hutchinson  ;  thence  on  a  strait  line  to  the 
Rangeway,  wliere  the  conntiy  road  crosses  the  same  ;  thence  East, 
by  the  South  side  of  said  Country  road,  to  Concord  Kiver."  But 
Carlisle's  long  struggle  for  life  did  not  end  in  success  until  1780, 
though  Billerica  again  gave  her  consent,  1779,  March  1,  when  a 
committee  reported  on  the  bounds  desired  :  "Beginning  at  Chelms- 
ford line,  at  the  end  of  the  wall  between  the  land  of  Lt.  Jonathan 
Spaulding  &  Land  of  Lt.  Asa  Spaulding,  Ruiiing  East  forty  Degrees 
South  half-a-mile  to  the'  Rangeway  ;  then  ruhing  southeasterly  to  th6 
northwest  corner  of  the  land  of  John  Nickles,  Jun.  ;  then  ruiiing 
between  s*"  Nickles'  land  &  land  of  Asa  Spaulding  to  the  southeast 
corner  of  said  Nickles'  land  ;  then  ruiiing  south  thirty-one  degrees 
west  half-a-mile  to  a  heap  of  stones  in  Capt.  Daniel  Stickney's  land  ; 
then  runing  southeasterly  to  the  northeast  corner  of  the  land  of 
Assachar  Andrews  ;  then  Runing  between  the  s'*  Andrews'  land  & 
land  of  Mr.  Joseph  Hill  to  Concord  River.  Voted,  that  Joseph 
Munroe,  Joshua  IMunroe,  Nathan  Munroe,  John  Henr}',  John  Henr}' 
2^"^,  Josiah  Heald,  Aaron  Munroe,  James  Nickles,  Joseph  Nickles, 
Jonas  Robbins,  Asa  Spanlding  Jun'',  with  their  land,  and  all  included 
within  that  line,  l)e  set  otf  as  a  Township,  agreeable  to  the  lines 
above  mentioned." 
This  was  the  final  action  of  Billerica  upon  the  subject,  which 
had  recurred  at  intervals  for  fort^'-two  3'ears  ;  and  at  last  she 
seems  to  have  given  her  youngest  daughter  a  send-off  with  hearty 
good- will.  Tiie  list  of  names  above  for  some  reason  omits  these  : 
Timothy  Crosby,  Charles  Hans,  Ebenezer  Hard}',  Joseph  Osgood, 
Levi  Parker,  Nathaniel  Parker.  Here  ceased  the  process  of  dis- 
memberment of  
Ancient  Billerica.  After  the  lapse  of  a  century,  it 
is  fair  to  hope  that  it  will  not  be  resumed  again. 
 - 249 - 
CHAPTER   XIII. 
THE      REVOLUTION. 
In  the  contest  through  which  the  British  Colonies  acquired 
independence  and  became  a  nation  Billerica  bore  her  part.  Her 
minute-men  were  at  Lexington,  and  the  first  soldier  who  fell  at 
Bunker  Hill  was  Asa  Pollard,  one  of  her  sons.  As  earh'  as  1731, 
September  14,  the  underlying  principle  of  the  national  contest  found 
expression  in  a  vote,  "that  it  is  our  opinion  that  our  Representative 
hold  fast  all  our  charter  priviledges  ;  and,  in  particular,  that  he 
give  his  voice  in  no  suply  of  the  Treasur}',  that  .deprives  the  house 
of  their  priviledg  in  passing  accounts  before  payments."  In  176G 
' '  
the  late  troubles  "  in  connection  with  the  Stamp  Act  came  before 
the  town,  on  the  question  of  recompense  to  the  sufferers,  and  "it 
passed  in  the  affirmative,"  with  a  reference  to  the  discretion  of  their 
representative. 
December  21,  1768,  a  town  meeting  "took  into  Consideration 
the  present  Distresst  and  Impoverished  State  of  this  Province,  That 
some  effectual  measures  might  be  agreed  upon  to  promote  Industry, 
Oeconomy,  &  Manufactures,  thereby  to  prevent  the  unnecessary 
Importation  of  European  commodities,  which  threaten  the  Country 
with  poverty  &  Ruiii."  Resolutions  were  unanimously  passed,  favor- 
ing home  manufactures  and  disapproving  the  use  of  imported 
articles,  of  which  a  long  list  is  named,  beginning  with  loaf-sugar. 
A  committee  reported  a  form  of  subsci'iption,  pledging  those  who 
signed,  to  promote  tiiese  objects.  "The  late  regulations  respecting 
Funerals"  are  special!}'  emphasized,  and  the  signers  agree  that  they 
"will  not  use  any  Gloves  but  what  are  manufactured  here,  nor 
procure  any  new  Garments  upon  such  an  occation  l)ut  what  shall 
be  absolutely  necessar}'"  ;  to  all  which  the  patriots  of  Billerica  it  is 
quite  certain  generally  agreed.  This  non-importation  action  became 
very  general,  and  produced  no  little  effect  on  the  popular  mind. 
 - 250 - 
THE    REVOLUTION.  227 
In  September,  1708,  resolutions  from  the  Town  of  Boston  were 
responded  to;  and,  "taking  into  Consideration  the  Critical  State  of 
our  public  affairs,  more  especially  the  present  Precarious  situation  of 
our  Invaluable  Rights  and  priviledges,  Civil  and  Religious,"  the  town 
voted  to  choose  "one  person  a  committee  for  s"^  Town,  to  meet  at 
Boston  at  Funel  hall,  the  22'^  inst.,  to  act  for  them  in  a  Convention, 
with  such  as  may  l)e  sent  to  join  them  from  the  several  towns  in  this 
province,  in  order  that  such  measures  maj'  be  consulted  and  advised 
as  his  majesty's  service  and  the  peace  and  safety  of  his  majesty's 
subjects  in  tlie  province  may  require."  William  Stickney,  Esq.,  was 
chosen  delegate  to  this  convention.  In  this  way  the  towns  furnished 
the  basis  for  effective  discussion  and  action  on  the  vital  problems 
which  stirred  the  colonies  ;  and  it  is  not  strange  that  the  English 
Ministry  were  alarmed  and  incensed  at  the  activity  of  these  miniature 
republics.     They  were  in  fact  the  palladium  of  our  rising  liberties. 
The  non-importation  agreement  naturally  did  not  secure  universal 
assent,  and  became  inoperative,  to  the  great  joy  of  the  Tories  ;  and 
the  Boston  IMassacre,  l)y  British  soldiers,  1770,  March  5,  intensified 
the  popular  feeling.  Royal  instructions  were  resisted,  as  not  having 
the  force  of  law  ;  and  the  action  of  Governor  Hutchinson  and  the 
judges,  in  receiving  their  salary'  from  the  Crown  and  not  from  the 
Colonies,  increased  the  sense  of  danger  in  the  minds  of  the  clear- 
headed patriots.  In  Boston,  under  the  grand  leadership  of  Samuel 
Adams,  a  committee  was  appointed,  who  reported  to  a  town  meeting, 
1772,  November  20,  a  paper  which  stated  the  rights  of  the  Colonists, 
enumerated  their  violation,  and  called  upon  the  towns  for  expressions 
of  their  judgment.  It  was  the  most  radical  exposition  which  had  A'et 
been  made  of  rights  and  grievances,  and  the  response  was  hearty. 
In  Billerica  a  town  meeting  was  held,  1773,  February  1,  and 
there  is  littledoubt  that  its  action  took  shape  under  the  hand  of  her 
able  and  patriotic  minister,  Henry  Cumings.     It  stands  thus  : — 
''The  inhabitants,  liaving-  deliberately  Considered  tlie  Critical  and 
alarming'  Situation  the  Colonies  upon  this  Continent  are  Keduced  to,  by 
reason  of  the  unconstitutional  proceedings  of  the  British  Ministry  and 
parliament  of  late  j^ears;  &  also  the  expediency  of  theii',  as  well  as  the 
Inhabitants  of  every  other  town,  Adopting  some  method  to  Communicate 
their  Sentiments  in  Kegard  to  tlie  Disputes  Subsisting  between  Great 
Britain  and  the  Colonies,  more  especially  on  account  of  the  late  change  in 
the  American  Department,  that  his  Lordship  the  present  Secretary  of  State 
for  the  said  X)epartment  may  be  Convinced  that  a  General  Uneasiness  pre- 
vails throughout  the  Country  in  Consequence  of  the  late  measures  of  tlie 
 - 251 - 
228  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
British  Adininistiation,  notwithstanding  any  Eepoits  to  the  Contrary,  & 
may  thereby  be  Influenced  'to  use  liis  best  Interest  and  endeavours  to 
procure  a  Removal  of  the  causes  thereof,  and  a  Restoration  of  tliat  peace 
&  Harmony  vvliich  so  long  Subsisted  Betw^een  the  Mother  Country  &  her 
Colonies,  &  are  undoubtedly  Necessary  to  the  political  Happiness  and 
welfare  of  each  :     Unanimously  Voted  and  Resolved, 
"1.  That  the  late  Acts  of  Parliament  for  laising  a  Revenue  in  the 
Colonies;  the  establishing  a  Board  of  Connnissioners  with  exorbitant 
powers;  the  granting  of  such  extensive  powers  to  the  Court  of  Admiralty; 
the  fixing  a  sallar}^  on  the  Governor  of  the  province,  and  on  the  Justices  of 
the  Superioi'  Courts.  Independant  of  tlie  Grants  of  the  General  .Assembly; 
the  extending  to  America  the  late  Acts  of  parliament.  Entitled  an  Act  for 
better  preserving  bis  Majesty's  Dock  yards,  &c;  the  Stationing  fleets  and 
armies  to  enforce  a  Compliance  with  Ministerial  &  parliamentary  measures, 
together  with  many  other  things  that  might  be  mentioned,  are  Repugnant 
to  the  principles  of  the  British  Constitution.  Subversive  of  their  Charter 
Rights  and  privileges,  &  therefore  Intolerable  Grievances. 
''2.  That  those  Reports  which  Represent  the  Inhabitants  in  General, 
in  the  Countiy,  as  acquiescing  in  and  ready  to  Comply  with  the  late 
measures  of  Administration,  are.  as  far  as  they  Respect  them,  false  and 
groundless. 
"3.  That  they  will  heai-tily  Concur  with  and  faithfully  assist  their 
brethren  in  the  common  cause,  throughout  the  Continent,  in  all  prudent, 
legall,  and  Constitutional  measures  that  shall  be  Adopted,  to  obtain  a 
Redress  of  their  present  Grievani-es  &  a  Restoration  of  their  Just  Rights 
and  priviledges  ;  and  will  also  at  all  times  Unite  with  them  in  Zealously 
and  Streanously  Asserting  their  Rights  and  Vigorous!}'  maintaining  their 
freedom. 
"4.  That  they  would  take  this  Occation  publickly  to  Declare  their 
'  
Cordial  Aft'ection  &  unfeigned  loyalty  to  his  present  majesty  George  the  3*^, 
and  to  express  tbeir  Sincear  wish  that  the  Union  Between  Create  Britain 
and  her  Colonies  may  never  be  broken,  but  be  preserved  upon  Such  an 
Equitable  foundation  as  Shall  Conduce  to  the  prospei'ity  &  Advantage  of 
both.     Wlierefore, 
•'5.  That  they  Commit  in  trust  to  our  Representative  in  the  General 
Court,  to  use  Such  measures  as  his  i)rudence  &  wisdom  Shall  Dictate,  to 
obtain  in  a  Constitutional  way  a  Redress  of  all  (Jrievances. 
'••O,  That  the  foregoing  votes  be  Recorded  in  the  town  Book,  and  that 
the  town  Clerk  transmit  a  Co])y  of  the  same  to  the  Connnittee  of  Corre- 
spondence of  
the  town  of  Boston." 
Other  towns  took  action  of  like  tenor,  and  the  effect  yvas  very 
great.  The  people  were  still  loyal,  but  their  rights  were  sacred  and 
could  not  l)e  sacrificed.  If  the  two  claims  were  not  hai-monized, 
there  was  no  doubt  which  must  yield ;  and  from  that  spirit  came 
independence  and  union. 
Instead  of  couciliation,  England  pursued  a  policy  of  exaspera- 
 - 252 - 
THE    REVOLUTION.  229 
tion,  by  sending  a  commission  to  Rhode  Island  for  the  trial  of 
persons  concerned  in  the  destrnction  of  the  schooner  "Gaspee," 
and  more  offensively  by  the  Tea  Act,  which  involved  the  issne 
of  taxation  withont  representation.  The  patriots  met  the  issue, 
1773,  December  16,  by  throwing  the  first  cargo  of  tea  into  Boston 
Harbor,  receiving  the  exulting  approval  of  the  people  in  all  the 
Colonies.  Then  followed  the  Boston  Port  Bill,  which  extended  the 
feeling  of  union  ;  for  the  colonists  espoused  the  cause  of  Boston, 
rather  than  see  her  suffer  alone  for  an  act  which  all  approved. 
The  Boston  Committee  again  appealed  to  other  towns,  and 
Billerica  responded,  1774,  June  G.  Captain  Enoch  Kidder  was 
moderator,  and  a  committee  consisting  of  Mr.  E;i)enezer  Bridge, 
Capt.  Josiah  Bowers,  and  Capt.  Ralph  Hill,  reported  as  follows:  — 
"The  Inliabitants.  having  taken  into  Consideration  the  oppressive 
Measures,  adopted  and  prosecuted  of  hite,  by  tlie  British  Ministry  and 
Parliament  against  the  Colonies  ;  and  more  especially  having  Considered 
the  very  alarming  and  vindictive  act  passed  for  the  Blocking  up  of  the 
harbour  of  Boston  and  ])utting  a  stop  to  the  trade,  unanimously  (>auie  into 
the  following  Resolves  : 
"1.  That  a  Right  in  the  British  Parliament  to  Tax  his  Majestj'^'s 
American  Sidijects  and  to  make  laws  Binding  upon  them  in  all  Cases, 
without  their  Consent  by  Representatives,  effectually  deprives  them  of 
those  Rights  and  Priviledges  which  as  men  and  as  Britisli  Subjects  they 
have  a  Just  Claim  to ;  and  has  no  better  foundation  in  Reason  &  Equity 
than  the  mdimited  Prerogative,  contended  for  by  those  arbitrary  and 
misguided  Princes.  Charles  the  first  and  James  the  second,  for  the  which 
the  one  lost  Ids  life  and  the  other  liis  Kingdom. 
•'2.  That  tlie  Colonies  are  as  Justifiable  in  opposing  this  unrighteous 
Claim  of  the  British  Parliament  &  all  Acts  Resulting  from  it,  with  all  the 
attempts  to  Carry  the  same  into  execution,  as  the  people  of  England  were 
in  opposing  Charles  t<:;  James,  &  Setting  William,  Prince  of  Orange,  of  ever 
Glorious  Memory,  upon  the  Throne  in  tlie  Room  of  the  latter,  Since  the 
measures  of  those  Arbitrarj^  Princes  were  not  more  Inconsistent  with  the 
Liberties  of  tlie  People  of  England  than  the  late  measures  of  the  British 
Parliament,  in  consequence  of  the  al)ove-mentioned  claim,  are  with  the 
Lilierties  of  the  People  in  Amei-ica. 
'•3.  That  our  Vigorous  Contests  for  our  Liberties,  in  Opposition  to 
the  said  Claim  of  Parliament  and  the  Oppressions  with  which  we  have 
been  loaded  in  Consequence  thereof,  Cannot  Consistentl}'  be  Denominated 
Faction  and  Rebellion  by  any  who  are  friendly  to  tlie  Principles  of  the 
Revolution  upon  whicli  his  Present  Majesty's  Rigiit  t(j  the  Crown  Depends; 
and  tlierefore  there  is  Reason  to  Suspect  that  those  who  call  our  manly 
Struggles  for  Liberty  Opprobi'ious  names  are  disaftected  to  the  Hannoverian 
Succession,  &  aiming  to  Restore  the  Racce  of  the  Stuarts. 
"4.    That  the  act  for  Blocking  up  Boston  Harbour  is  Hostile,  Arbitrary 
 - 253 - 
230  HISTOEY    OF    BILLERICA. 
&  Cruel,  and  a  Solemn  Alarm.  Sniiiided  to  all  America,  to  Unite  as  one  man 
and  Stand  more  tlrm  than  ever  in  Defence  of  its  Liberties,  as  it  Discovers 
implacable  Kesentment  in  tlie  British  Ministry  and  a  fixed  Intention  to 
treat  these  Colonies  as  Kebels,  without  even  the  fornuility  of  a  trial,  and  to 
condemn  &  punish  them  unheard  if  they  Do  not  yield  a  tame  Submission 
to  their  Sovereign  Mandates,  which  is  a  mode  of  proceeding"  against  IJeal 
offenders  Scarcely  to  be  parrelled  bj^  any  instance  in  tlie  most  arbitrary  ct 
tyrannical  Reigns. 
"■5.  That  we  consider  tlie  Blow  Struck  at  Boston  as  aimed  at  the 
Province  in  General,  and  as  a  Prelude  to  something  further.  Equally 
Vindictive,  yet  in  Store  for  this  and  the  other  Colonies,  and  as  we  have  a 
fixed  Reliance  upon  the  Vhlue  of  our  Brethren  in  Boston  to  persevere  in 
the  noble  Cause  of  Liberty,  which  they  have  hitherto  maintained  with  Such 
laudable  fortitude  and  Resolution,  and,  looking  upon  our  Selves  as  Bound 
to  annimate  and  encourage  them,  we  hereby  promise  &  Declare  our  Readi- 
ness to  
Support  and  Strengthen  them  in  the  present  conflict  to  the  utmost 
of  our  power,  and  to  joyn  with  them  in  anj^  measures  that  shall  be  Judged 
expedient  for  our  Common  Safety  and  Defence,  and  for  Defeating  every 
vengeful  machination  of  those  that  would  punish  us  for  Shewing  our  Selves 
men,  and  Dragoon  us  into  Slavery  because  we  Disdain  patientlj'  to  take  the 
Yoak  upon  our  Necks  at  their  Bidding. 
''6.  That,  if  the  Respectable  Body  of  Merchants  throughout  the 
Colonies  might  come  into  an  agreement  to  import  no  British  Goods  and 
carry  on  no  foreign  trade  whereby  the  merchants  in  England  should 
Receive  any  Greate  Benefit  or  Emolument.  Ave  humbly  Conceive  that  a 
plan  would  be  laid  for  the  Speedy  Removal  of  our  Difficulties  ;  and  that 
we  should  have  nothing  to  Do  but  to  Sit  Still  and  See  the  Salvation  of 
our  Country.  We  therefore  Ardently  Reconnnend  this  measure  to  them, 
promising  that  nothing  shall  be  wanting  upon  our  part  for  the  Encour- 
agement of  
the  Same. 
'■'Lastly.  That,  as  it  would  be  an  Indellible  Disgrace  and  a  Violation 
of  the  Sacred  Obligation  we  are  under,  to  God,  'J'o  our  Country,  to  our 
Selves,  and  to  Posterity,  for  us  tamely  and  Pusillanimously  to  give  up 
these  invaluable  Liberties,  which  our  worthy  Ancest(*rs  purchased  for  us 
at  Such  Vast  Expense  of  Blood  &  Treasure,  AVe  are  Determined  to  use  our 
utmost  efforts  to  maintain  them,  and  nqt  part  with  them  at  a  Cheaper  Rate 
than  they  were  at  first  Obtained." 
These  resolutions  were  recorded,  and  transmitted  to  the  "Com- 
mittee of  
Correspondence  in  Boston."  It  was  also  voted  to  choose 
a  Committee  of  Correspondence,  which  consisted  of  Mr.  Ebenezer 
Bridge,  Mr.  Joshua  Abbott,  Capt.  Josiali  Bowers,  Mr.  Kalpli  Ilill, 
Doctor  Timotliy  Danforth,  Mr,  William  Tompson,  and  ]\Ir.  Solomon 
Pollard. 
On  June  27,  after  considering  two  covenants,  sent  from  Boston, 
"The  Town,  after  Serious  Deliberation  upon  the  Difficulties  & 
Distresses  in  which  the  Province,  as  well  as  the  Colonies  in  General, 
 - 254 - 
THE    REVOLUTION.  231 
are  involved,  at  the  present  Day  ;  also  upon  what  Method  will  have 
the  greatest  tendenc}^  to  Cause  a  Suspension  of  all  Commercial 
Intercourse  with  the  Island  of  Great  Britain,  (that  being  adjudged 
a  Measure  the  most  Salutary-  and  Prudent  that  can  be  adopted,  and 
most  likely  to  etfect  the  end  proposed,)  Voted,  That  the  Inhabitants 
of  this  Town  come  into  an  Agreement,  faithfully  and  Religiousl}'^  to 
be  observed,  that  the}-  will  not  I1U3-,  purchase,  or  Consume,  or  suffer 
any  person  b\',  for,  or  under  them,  to  purchase  or  Consume,  in  an}' 
way  or  manner  whatsoever,  an}'  Goods,  wares,  or  merchandise  that 
«hall  arrive  in  America  from  Greate  Britain  aforesaid,  from  and  after 
the  31  Day  of  August  ilext  ensuing,  for  and  until  such  time  as  they 
shall  have  Received  the  Result  of  the  Continental  Congress,  upon 
whose  wisdom,  Prudence,  and  Integrity  they  Rely,  &  to  whose  Deter- 
mination they  shall  Readily  Conform.  A'^oted,  That  if  any  person 
or  persons  shall  Discover  such  a  want  of  regard  for  the  Interest  and 
Good  of  the  Country,  as  to  import  any  kind  of  merchandise  from 
Great  Brittain  aforesaid,  after  the  aforesaid  31  Day  of  August  until 
the  publication  of  the  aforesaid  result,  they  wall  not  purchase  of  them 
any  article  of  British  goods,  whatever,  when,  or  howsoever  imported. 
Voted,  That  a  Covenant  comprising  the  Spirit  and  intention  of  the 
foregoing  \"ote  be  forthwith  Subscril)ed  to  I)}-  the  Inhabitance  of  the 
Town,"  and  a  committee  was  appointed  for  the  purpose. 
September  12th,  it  was  "Voted,  that  the  Tow^i  Justifie  the 
Committee  of  Correspondence  for  their  Going  to  CouQord,  to  join 
with  the  committees  of  the  other  towns  of  this  County,  to  Consult 
upon  measures  proper  to  be  taken  at  the  present  important  day," 
and  ''that  the  town  fully  accept  of  the  Resolves  passed  at  said 
meeting  in  Concord."  At  the  same  time  the  town  voted  to  choose 
two  persons,  "  as  a  Committee  to  attend  at  the  Provincial  Congress, 
to  be  held  at  Concord  on  the  second  Tuesday  in  October."  William 
Stickney,  Esq.,  and  Mr.  Ebenezer  Bridge  were  chosen.  Already  the 
First  Continental  Congress  was  in  session  at  Philadelphia,  and  the 
active  union  of  the  Colonies  was  taking  practical  form.  Two  weeks 
later,  Mr.  Stickney  was  also  elected  Representative  to  the  General 
Court,  "  to  be  held  at  Salem,"  October  0  ;  and  he  was  instructed  "  to 
pay  no  Regard  to  the  King's  new  mandamus  Council,  as  a  Council, 
nor  proceed  to  act  with  them"  ;  and,  "if  the  Governor  Should  Dis- 
solve, prorogue,  or  adjourn  the  Court,  that  our  Representative  joine 
the  House  in  forming  themselves  into  a  provincial  Congress,"  and  in 
the  latter  case,  Mr.  Bridge  was  also  to  attend  it. 
 - 255 - 
232  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
The  progress  of  sentiment  and  action  was  rapid,  as  appears 
6  December,  1774,  when  the  town  adopted  a  conunittee's  report  as 
follows:  "  When  we  Reflect  on  the  alarming  &  Critical  Scituation 
of  onr  Pu1)lick  affairs,  it  is  with  pleasnre  we  behold  the  Remarkable 
Unanimity  that  prevails  Through  the  whole  Continent  ;  we  are 
Greatly  pleased  to  find  that  the  very  Methods  by  which  a  Corrupt 
Ministry-  Sought  to  Divide  the  Colonies  have  Served  Happily  to 
unite  them,  and  by  every  New  Act  of  Oppression  more  and  more 
to  Strengthen  the  Union,  So  that  the  people  Seem  in  Every  (Quarter, 
almost  to  a  man,  to  be  P^ngaged  in  the  Common  Cause.  And  we 
Earnestly  Recommend  it  to  this  people,  that  since  the}'  have  Endeav- 
oured to  
Collect  the  United  wisdom  of  the  whole  Continent,  by  their 
Selected  Delegates,  also  the  General  Sence  of  the  province,  now 
assembled  in  Congress,  that  the^'  would  pay  a  proper  Regard  to  their 
Resolves  and  Recommendations  ;  it  is  with  most  painful  Sensations 
we  see  the  supineness  and  inattention  to  our  Common  Interest  that 
seems  to  prevail  in  the  minds  of  many  people  in  this  town  ;  we  are 
sorry  that  there  is  so  much  uneasiness  in  the  minds  of  some  People 
in  Regard  to  settling  the  melitia.  We  heartil}-  wish  that  this  people 
were  more  fully  Convinced  that  good  polic}'  Consists  much  in  learning 
the  use  of  arms  and  the  art  of  war  ;  and  the  times  may  soon  Demand 
their  Service  and  the  utmost  Exertion  of  them.  And  Since  it  is 
submitted  to  us,  as  a  committee,  to  Draw  some  plan  for  the  Town  to 
adopt  in  order  to  settle  the  melitia,  we  Give  it  as  our  humble  opinion 
that  it  would  be  best  for  the  [men  to  be]  called  Together  :  both  the 
\larm  List  and  the  Training  band  ;  and  in  the  first  i)lace  to  Resolve 
that  they  will  abide  the  Vote  of  a  Majority-,  and  then  proceed  to  the 
Choice  of  officers  for  each  Compan}',  and  when  the  Compan\^  are  so 
settled,  that  each  Company  meet  to  G ether  as  often  as  they  can 
conveniently  in  order  to  learn  the  art  military,  and  that  the  companies 
all  attend  &  stiictly  obey  the  lawfull  commands  &  orders  of  said 
officers.  With  Regard  to  the  Company'  under  the  Command  of  Mr. 
p]benezer  Bridge,  we  can't  but  Justif}'  upon  the  principles  they  set 
out,  which,  we  take  for  Granted,  was  to  Learn  the  Military  Art,  and 
we  Rejoice  to  see  that  the}',  as  well  as  the  other  Companies,  have 
made  such  noble  Improvements,  and  we  hope  that  Company  will  act 
so  much  upon  Ilonnor  as  not  to  make  any  Devisions  in  the  other 
Companies,  and  if  they  go  on  to  Enlist  men,  that  they  be  Restricted 
to  a  Certain  number."  Monday,  the  twelfth,  was  assigned  for  the 
election  of  officers,  and  Mr.  Bridge's  compau}'  was  limited  to  fort}'- 
 - 256 - 
THE    REVOLUTION.  233 
eight  privates.  It  was  none  too  soon  for  the  miUtia  to  be  arniing 
and  training;  as  the}'  were  qnickly  needed.  Volunteer  movements, 
it  appeared,  had  alread}^  been  made  before  the  action  of  the  town. 
Another  vital  step  was  taken  when  the  constables  were  instructed, 
December  19,  to  pay  the  Province  taxes  to  Henry  Gardner,  Esq.,  of 
Stowe,  who  had  been  appointed  b}-  the  Provincial  Congress  Receiver-^ 
General.  The  State  was  to  have  the  means  in  friendly  hands  to 
carry  on  its  legitimate  work.  A  Committee  of  Inspection  was  also 
chosen,  consisting  of  Ebenezer  Bridge,  Joshua  Abbot,  Solomon 
Pollard,  Joshua  Davis,  William  Tompson,  Timothy  Danforth,  Reuben 
Kendall,  John  Parker,  and  Oliver  Abbot,  "to  see  that  the  Resolves 
of  the  Continental,  and  Provincial,  Congress,  be  adliei-ed  to,  so  far 
as  they  Respect  ns."  In  January,  1775,  AVilliani  Stickney  was 
chosen  delegate  to  a  Provincial  Congress  which  met  in  Cambridge  ; 
and  another  important  committee  was  thus  provided  for:  "The 
Difficulty  aud  Dangers  of  the  present  Day  into  which  we  are  fallen, 
when  the  Course  of  Law  &  Justice  is  Interrupted,  and  the  Danger 
of  people  being  Disorderly  &  Tumultuous  to  the  Disturbing  the 
Common  wealth  and  the  peace  of  the  Good  people  of  the  Town, 
taking  the  Advantage  of  the  times  ;  voted,  to  choose  a  Committee 
of  twelve  persons,  as  Conservators.  Chose  William  Stickney,  Esq., 
Mr.  Ebenezer  Bridge,  Mr.  Joshua  Abbot,  Captain  Daniel  Sticknej', 
Captain  Josiah  Bowers,  Mr.  Joshua  Davis,  Lt.  Asa  Spaulding,  Mr. 
Benj.  Lewis,  Mr.  Henry  Jefts,  Mr.  Zebadiah  Rogers,  Captain  Ralph 
Hill,  &  Mr.  Paul  Cooke,  whose  business  it  shall  be,  as  nnich  as  in 
them  lies,  by  all  prudent  methods,  to  prevent  &  Discountenance  all 
Disorders,  Mobs,  &  Tumultuous  Assemblys  in  the  s''  Town,  and  to 
heal  all  Diferances  by  persuading  all  Contending  persons  to  be  at 
peace,  or  to  leave  their  Differences  to  men  to  settle  for  them  ;  aud  to 
P^ncourage  people  as  much  as  possil)le  to  lead  (^uiete  #  peacable  lives 
in  all  Godliness  &  honesty.  And  where  persons  prove  obstinate 
and  erreclaimable,  to  bring  such  matters  before  the  town  for  their 
Consideration  &  Determination,  ^"oted,  that  seven  of  s''  Committee 
be  a  Corum."  These  good  men  intended  to  pi-ove  and  did  prove  that 
they  could  guard  the  public  peace  in  times  of  transition  and  danger. 
It  is  also  evident  that  Dr.  Cumings  did  not  always  write  or  criticize 
their  public  utterances.  He  would  have  secured  better  grannnatical 
coherence  ;    
but  what  the  fathers  meant  to  say  is  usually  clear. 
At  the  town  meeting  in  March,  it  was  voted  to  raise  a  companj- 
of  fifty  minute-men,  who  should  meet  weekl}'  for  training,  and  be 
 - 257 - 
234  HISTORY   OF    BILLERICA. 
pnid  one  shilling  for  even'  half-days'  training,  except  when  this  day 
was  the  same  as  the  general  training-day.  The  oflieers,  appointed 
by  a  committee  of  the  town,  were  Ca[)tain  Ebenezer  Bridge,  Lieuts. 
Jonathan  Stickney  and  James  Lewis  ;  and  the  minute-men  were  to 
pass  muster  before  Colonel  Tompson,  Captain  Pollard,  and  Captain 
Farmer.  Another  committee  was  ''to  perfect  the  alarm  List;  the 
Rule  to  go  by  is,  all  above  the  age  of  fifty-five." 
4-  few  days  later  occurred  an  incident  in  Boston  which  has  made 
the  name  of  a  young  man  from  Billerica  famous  in  the  history  of 
these  days,  and  produced  much  effect  upon  the  minds  of  the  patriots. 
Thomas  Ditson,  Jun.,  being  in  Boston,  was  seiised  by  the  British 
troops,  March  8,  on  the  pretence  that  he  was  urging  a  soldier  to 
desert  ;  without  any  examination  kept  a  prisoner  until  the  next  day, 
when  he  was  stripped,  tarred,  and  feathered,  and  dragged  through 
the  principal  streets  on  a  truck,  attended  by  soldiers  of  the  Forty- 
Seventh  Regiment,  led  by  Colonel  Nesbit,  to  the  music  of  Yankee 
Doodle,  the  original  words  of  which,  it  is  said,  were  then  first  used. 
The  outrage  produced  great  indignation,  and  the  selectmen  of  Boston 
sent  a  letter  reporting  the  case  to  the  selectmen  of  Billerica,  who 
presented  a  remonstrance  to  General  Gage,  and  submitted  the  case 
to  a  town  meeting,  on  March  20.  The  town  thanked  them  ''  for  the 
wise  and  i)radent  measures"  they  had  taken,  expressed  its  dissatis- 
faction with  the  reply  of  General  Gage,  and  instructed  them  to  carry 
the  case  to  the  Provincial  Congress. 
Debates  and  events  were  becoming  ver}'  serious,  and  the  drilling 
of  train-l)ands  and  minute-men  foreshadowed  too  well  the  work 
before  them.  The  stern  resolve  of  the  patriots  expressed  itself  in  a 
vote,  the  same  day,  "to  look  up  the  old  Bayonets"  ;  and,  April  14, 
four  days  before  the  Lexington  and  Concord  alarm,  they  voted  to 
"  furnish  the  mfiuUe-men  with  Bayonets  and  Cartridge  Boxes."  It 
was  also  voted,  that  "as  every  method  ought  to  be  pursued  which 
may  tend  to  promote  the  arts  &  manufactures  of  the  Country,  espe- 
cially tliat  of  wool.  The  Inhabitants  of  this  town  Shall  not  Kill  any 
lambs  for  the  markett  till  after  the  first  Day  of  August  next  ;  and 
also  that  no  one  ought  to  sell  an}-  to  any  Butcher  or  Petty  Chapman, 
at  any  time  whatever."  "Voted,  That  the  Inhabitants  of  this  Town 
will,  on  the  Death  of  a  friend  or  Relative,  Conform  to  the  8"'  article 
of  the  American  Association,  &  go  into  no  further  mourning  than 
such  as  is  therein  Recommended,  and  will  entirely  Discontinue  the 
Giving  of  anv  Gloves  whatever  at  Funerals." 
 - 258 - 
THE    REVOLUTION.  235 
To  prevent  the  troops  in  Boston  from  being  snpplied  with  materials 
for  hostile  operations,  the  town  voted  not  to  permit  any  team  "to 
Load  in,  or,  after  loaded,  to  pass  through,  the  Town,  with  Timber, 
Boards,  Spars,  Pickets,  Tent-poles,  Canvas,  Biick,  Iron,  Waggons, 
Carts,  Carriages,  Intrenching  Tools,  Oats,"  etc.,  without  satisfactory 
certificate  from  the  Committee  of  Correspondence,  as  to  load,  desti- 
nation, and  abode.  Meanwhile,  General  Gage  was  preparing  for  an 
expedition  to  seize  the  military  stores  which  had  been  gathered  at 
Concord,  with  little  suspicion  what  preparation  the  Provincials  had 
made,  and  how  promptly  the}'  would  deal  w4th  such  a  movement. 
It  was  about  eleven'  o'clock  on  the  night  of  April  18th,  that  Paul 
Revere  and  William  Dawes  set  out  on  their  ride  to  give  the  alarm 
and  summon  the  minute-men  to  resist  the  advance  of  the  British 
troops.  The  story  of  that  day  has  been  well  told,  and  can  not  be 
here  repeated.  It  was  certainly  to  Billerica  one  of  the  most  exciting 
and  important  days  in  her  history.  The  midnight  riders  spreading 
the  alarm  were  likely  to  come  b}'  the  Woburn.  Ijcxington,  and  Bed- 
ford roads,  and  probably  reached  Billerica  by  two  o'clock.  The 
Ditsons  on  the  Woburn  Road  would  be  among  the  first  to  receive 
the  summons,  and  very  ready  to  respond  to  it  after  their  recent 
experience.  Colonel  Tompson  and  Lieutenant  !Stickney,  living  in 
the  southeast  part  of  the  village,  would  be  promptly  notified  ;  and 
El>enezer  Bridge,  who  was  captain  of  the  minute-men,  and  lived  at 
the  Farmer  place  and  nearl}'  opposite  Colonel  Stickney's.  There 
was  huriTing  to  and  fro,  we  may  be  sure,  and  in  the  early  dawn, 
when  the  first  encounter  took  place  at  Lexington,  few  families,  if 
an}',  had  not  heard  the  call  to  arms.  Muskets  and  accoutrements 
were  hastil}'  made  ready  and  donned  ;  the  alarm-list  no  doubt  turned 
out  as  well  as  the  train-band  and  the  minute-men  ;  and  gathering  at 
the  Common  for  muster  and  orders,  the}-  hurried  off  towards  Concord. 
IMeanwh'le,  the  British  had  pushed  on  to  Concord,  and  after  the  fight 
there  found  reason  for  hurrj'ing  back  towards  Boston.  They  had 
not  gone  far  when,  at  IMerriam's  Corner,  the  Billerica  troops  came 
and  joined  in  the  assault  and  pursuit  of  the  retreating  foe.  Mr. 
Frothingham  states  that  the}'  came  under  the  command  of  Colonel 
William  Tompson,  a  fact  which  suggests  that  the  force  was  not 
limited  to  the  company  of  minute-men  under  Captain  Bridge,  and  it 
is  not  likely  that  the  veterans  would  be  slow  to  turn  out  at  such  a 
call.  Some  Billerica  men  w'ere  naturally  in  the  Bedford  company 
and  arrived  earlier,  and  when  Capt.  Jonathan  Wilson  was  killed,  the 
 - 259 - 
236  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
eonunniKl  devolved  upon  his  Bilk'rica  lieutenant,  Edward  Stearns. 
Nathaniel  Wvnian  of  the  same  company  was  killed,  who  was  prob- 
ably from  Billeriea,  although  his  name  is  also  credited  to  Lexington. 
No  other  man  from  this  town  was  killed,  but  John  Nickles  and 
Timothy  Blanchard  were  wounded. 
Tlie  day  of  Lexington  and  Concord  decided  the  issue  of  Avar  ; 
and  there  followed  a  rapid  nuistering  of  Provincial  forces.  Billeriea 
I'urnished  her  share  of  men,  as  appears  from  this  action.  May  15: 
'•('hose  Messurs  Samuel  Kidder  &  Isaac  Foster  as  a  Comt''''  to  pro- 
\ide  Blanketts  for  those  persons  in  this  town  that  have  Inlisted  into 
the  provincial  service."  Another  vote  was,  "thttt  the  Commanding 
officer  of  the  Caddett  Company  make  Keturne  to  the  field  Officers, 
the  State  of  the  Compan}',  as  the  other  Militia  Captains  do,  and  also 
that  they  Ije  Read}'  on  any  Ocation  to  take  their  part  in  any  Burthen, 
acording  to  then-  number,  with  the  other  Companys."  A  committee 
was  also  chosen  "to  provide  straw  for  the  army  at  Cambridge." 
Deacon  Hill  was  excused  from  the  Committee  of  Correspondence, 
and  Captain  Daniel  Stickney  and  Lieut.  John  Parker  were  added  to 
that  important  committee.  Two  weeks  later,  the  town  voted,  that 
the  article  in  the  warrant  "Respecting  the  Dissolution  of  the  Caddett 
Company  be  put  over  to  the  fall  meeting"  ;  but  there  is  no  record 
of  farther  action.  Probably  this  was  a  compan}-  of  bo3'S,  too  young 
for  service  and  too  patriotic  to  neglect  preparation  for  future  duty. 
A  conmiittee  was  chosen,  June  2G,  "to  purchase  GO  hogsheds  of 
salt  &  ten  hogsheds  of  MoUasses,  for  a  town  Stock."  This  salt 
was  bought  at  Beverly,  and  furnishes  many  items  among  the  town 
charges  for  the  year.  Other  items  are  "a  pair  of  shoes  for  William 
Britton,"  "an  old  coat  and  a  pair  of  stockings"  for  the  same  soldier, 
and  "sundries  Delivered  to  Mary  Britton,"  no  doubt  his  Avife.  "To 
Jacob  French  for  fixing  5  Bayonets  to  their  Onus,  9%  5,  2,"  and  "to 
AY'"  Baldwin  for  making  7  Cataridge  Boxes  for  the  minute-men, 
1,  8,  0"  ;  "a  pair  of  shoes  for  Ro])ert  Augier,  6%  0"  ;  "a  Jaccoat 
for  AV"  Britton,  2%  0"  ;   
"3  cords  of  wood  for  Mary  Britton,  1,0,  0." 
The  siege  of  Boston  occasioned  the  departure  of  many  of  its 
l)atriotic  inhabitants,  who  sought  refuge  in  the  surrounding  towns  ; 
and  at  the  iNLirch  meeting  in  177G  a  committee  was  appointed  "to 
take  care  of  and  provide  for  the  Donation  persons  that  came  from 
the  towns  of  Boston  and  CbarlestoAvn."  The  Committee  of  Corre- 
spondence was  reconstructed,  William  Stickne}',  Esq.,  taking  the 
place   of    Colonel   Bridge,  who   was   absent   in    the    army.     Other 
 - 260 - 
THE    EEVOLUTION.  237 
members  were  "Josluua  Al)l)ot,  Co'.  W"\  Tompson,  Capt.  Daniel 
Stickne}',  Capt.  Josiah  Bowers,  Dr.  Timothy-  Daufortli,  Dea.  Joshua 
Davis,  Lt.  John  Parker,  Mr.  Henry  Jefts,  Mr.  Isaac  Foster,  and 
Mr.  Benj".  Lewis."  Their  duty  is  defined,  "to  serve  as  a  Committee 
of  Correspondence,  Inspection,  and  Safet}',  whose  Business  shall  be 
to  Communicate  with  Dispatch  an}^  matters  of  importance  to  the 
publick  that  may  come  to  their  Knowledge  to  the  Committees  of  the 
same  Denomination  of  an3'  other  town,  Count}',  or  Colony,  which  it 
may  particularly  concern,  or  to  the  General  Assembly-  of  this  Colony, 
or  in  their  Recess  to  the  Council  ;  and  also  to  Inspect  whether  there 
[are]  any  Inhabitants  of  or  Residents  in  their  Respective  towns  who 
violate  the  association  of  the  Continental  Congress,  or  any  other  the 
Resolves,  Directions,  or  Recommendations  of  said  Congress,  or  Acts 
and  Resolves  of  the  General  Court  &  preceding  Congresses  of  this 
Colony,  Respecting  the  present  Struggles  with  Great  Britton.  And, 
if  any  such  are  found,  that  the}'  proceed  with  them  in  Such  manner 
as  tl^  Resolves  of  the  Continental  Congress  or  the  laws  or  Resolves 
of  this  Colony  Do  or  shall  Direct  ;  That  the}'  make  known  to  the 
General  Court  or  to  the  Council  all  Gross  Breaches  of  trust  in  any 
officers  or  servants  of  this  Colony  that  may  come  under  their  oljser- 
vation  ;  That  they  use  their  utmost  influence  to  promote  peace  and 
harmony  in  their  Respective  towns."  These  were  extensive  powers 
and  duties,  and  the  exercise  of  them  was  liy  no  means  nominal. 
Viny  nuich  was  due  to  the  vigilance  and  discretion  with  which  these 
committees  discharged  their  various  and  delicate  functions. 
At  a  meeting.  May  23,  the  town  voted  ''to  send  another  Repre- 
sentative this  year,"  and  chose  Colonel  Tompson.  It  then  adds  a 
resolution  which  showed  the  progress  of  public  sentiment  after  a 
year  in  the  school  of  war?  and  that  they  were  finding  out  tliat  loyalty 
to  Great  Britain  could  not  much  longer  be  made  consistent  with  the 
defence  of  their  rights.  "The  Question  was  put  whether  the  Town 
will,  in  Conformity  to  a  Resolve  of  the  Hon^'*^  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives of  
this  Colony,  advise  our  Representatives  that,  if  the 
Hon'''*^  Congress  Should  for  the  Safety  of  the  Colonies  Declare  them 
Independent  of  Great  Brittain,  they  the  said  Inhabitants  will  engage 
with  their  lives  &  fortunes  to  Support  them,  and  it  passed  unani- 
mously in  
the  affirmative."  They  were  patriotic  men  who  were  ready 
for  this  action.  With  such  leaders  as  Dr.  Cumings  and  William 
Stickney,  we  may  he  sure  it  was  not  taken  witliout  intelligent  con- 
sideration of  
its  significance  and  what  it  was  likel}-  to  cost  them. 
 - 261 - 
238  HISTOKY   OF    BILLERICA. 
The  l)attle  of  Bunker  Hill  was  fought  on  June  17,  mid  in  that 
Ijattle  the  company  from  Billeriea  served  in  the  redoubt  under 
Prescott.  Its  foi-mer  captain  was  now  Colonel  Bridge,  and  Lieut. 
Jonathan  Sticknej'  was  in  command.  Asa  Pollard,  whose  home  was 
near  the  "fordway,"  was  the  first  soldier  killed,  and  was  buried  on 
the  field.  Sanmel  Hill  was  also  killed,  and  probal)ly  Benjamin  Easte,. 
who  was  reported  as  dead  soon  after  ;  and  Timothy  Toothaker  died 
a  few  days  later  of  wounds  received.  Colonel  Bridge  was  wounded 
on  the  head  and  neck  b}'  a  sword  cut,  and  was  one  of  the  last  to 
retreat.  In  the  severe  scrutiny  which  followed,  he  did  not  escape 
charges  of  misconduct,  in  seeking  too  cautioush'  the  cover  of  the 
redoubt.  He  was  tried,  but  acquitted  on  the  ground  of  indisposition 
of  body.  ' 
It  is  beyond  the  proper  range  of  a  local  history  to  attempt  to 
follow  the  current  of  national  affairs  ;  and  the  great  Declaration, 
with  the  important  events  following,  can  only  be  suggested  as 
occurring  at  this  point.  The  town  voted,  October  7,  to  open  the 
salt  store,  selling  the  salt  for  five  shillings  per  bushel,  not  more  than 
a  bushel  and  a  half  to  each  family-,  and  no  credit  was  to  be  given. 
At  the  same  time  it  was  voted,  "that  the  Rev.  Henrj-  Cumings, 
Joshua  Abbot,  Dr.  Tim".  Danforth,  Capt.  Josiah  Bowers,  &  Col. 
Tompson,  be  a  Committee  to  Draw  up  some  proper  vote  to  present 
to  the  town  *  relative  to  a  hand  bill  sent  to  the  town."  This 
committee  reported,  October  14,  as  follows:  — 
"'The  town  of  Billerica  being  assenil)led  this  clay,  ou  adjouninient  of 
a  legal  meeting,  wai-nod  in  Compliance  with  a  Eeeonuiiendation  from  the 
house  of  Represeutatives,  in  order  for  the  Freemen  of  said  town  to  express 
their  mind  Kelative  to  the  erecting  some  form  of  Government  in  this  State, 
after  Deliberatel.v  Discussing  the  matter,  came  mto  the  following  votes: 
"■].  Tliat  tlie  Tyranny  of  Greate  Brittaine,  (whi<*h  lias  eomptdled  the 
United  provinces  of  America  to  Dissolve  their  Connection  with  hei-.)  having 
broken  up  the  Constitution  of  this  province,  it  has  now  become  necessary 
for  the  prevention  of  anarchy,  for  the  preservation  of  internal  peace  & 
good  order,  and  for  the  umtual  Security  of  the  Inhabitants  in  the  enjoy- 
1  Siege  of  Boston,  p.  1"C.  Mr.  Frothiiighain's  JKlinirable  record  iiiid  iiiialv.sis  of  the 
events  around  Ko.stou  in  1775-76  make  liis  volume  an  indispensable  authority  to  all  students 
of  those  campaigns.  Its  value  is  impaired  by  a  failure  to  recognize  the  e.xtent  and  impor- 
tance of  the  services  of  the  New  Hampshire  soldiers  under  StiU'k  at  the  rail-fence  and 
breastwork;  and  by  a  tendency  to  nuignify  the  position  of  Colonel  Prescott,  who  had  com- 
mand in  
the  redoubt.  A  corresponding  injustice  is  done  General  Putnam,  the  only  general 
otficer  present,  who  certainly  exercised  authority  in  the  larger  Held  beyond  the  redoubt,  and 
the  only  American  whose  position,  as  if  he  were  the  chief  otiicer,  is  recognized,  both  by 
contemporary  letters  and  art,  British  and  American. 
 - 262 - 
THE    REYOLUTION.  239 
ment  of  their  property  and  Just  I'ight.s,  that  some  form  of  Government  be 
speadily  erected  ;   and  therefore, 
•'2.  That  it  be  Submitted  to  the  present  house  of  Representatives,  in 
Conjunction  with  tlie  Council,  to  Draw  up  such  a  phm  of  Government  as 
they  in  their  wisdom  shall  judge  best  adapted  to  promote  tlie  lasting  wel- 
fare and  happiness  of  this  State,  Depending  on  it  that  before  such  plan  of 
Government  be  ratified  &  established  by  an  act  of  the  Court,  it  be  made 
publick.  for  the  inspection  of  the  people,  that  they  also  may  have  an 
opportunity  to  judge  of  it,  and  to  propose  such  alterrations  as  thej'  may 
think  best  to  be  made,  if  it  should  appear  in  any  Respect  Disagreeable  to 
them,     voted,  the  above  I'eport  be  accepted." 
Ill  1777,  May,  the  town  instructed  its  representative  to  favor 
the  course  thus  indicated,  which  was  adopted  by  the  Court,  and  a 
Constitution  was  submitted  to  the  people  ;  but  it  did  not  please 
them  and  was  rejected.  Two  years  later  a  convention  was  called 
for  the  purpose  of  framing  a  Constitution,  to  which  Billerica  sent 
her  pastor,  Rev.  Dr.  Cumings.  The  result  of  its  deliberations  was 
approved  by  the  people,  1780,  June  5th,.  the  first  Constitution  of 
Massachusetts.  Billerica  desired  an  alteration  of  a  clause,  but 
consented  to  it  without  conditions.  Until  this  was  adopted,  the 
towns  acted  on  a  theor}-  of  their  semi-independence  ;  for  instance, 
"the  Question  was  put  whether  the  town  will  heartily  Submitt  to 
the  Reagulating  bill,  &  it  passed  in  the  affirmative." 
As  the  war  went  on,  and  the  calls  for  troops  were  repeated,  the 
people  found  it  more  difficult  to  respond.  The  country,  in  fact,  was 
poor,  and  the  tax  of  maintaining  the  contest  in  both  men  and  money 
was  severe.  1777,  March  10,  the  town  chose  "a  committee  of  five 
persons  to  Indent  with  persons  to  Inlist  into  the  Continental  service," 
consisting  of  Capt.  Solomon  Pollard,  Capt.  E^dward  Farmer,  Capt. 
Jonathan  Stickney,  Lieut.  Jacoli  Richardson,  and  Oliver  Crosb}-  ; 
and  they  were  allowed  fourteen  dajs  to  procure  men  and  make 
report.  On  the  24th,  the  town  continued  the  committee,  adding 
Lieut.  Elijah  Danforth,  and  voted  an  additional  bounty-  of  £24  to 
"such  persons  as  will  now  Inlist  into  the  Continental  Army." 
Probabl3-  fort}^  of  the  men  who  are  numbered  (3)  on  the  ensuing 
list  of  soldiers  responded  to  this  call,  a  number  which  would  demand 
nearly  £1000  to  fulfil  this  stipulation.  A  committee  of  nine  was 
chosen,  "to  form  some  plan  how  the  money  shall  be  raised  for  the 
aditional  bounty."     Their  report  was  : — 
•'First.  That  every  man  according  to  his  Interest  shall  be  taxed  to 
paj^  the  aditional  bounty  to  hire  men  to  Engage  in  the  Continental  Army. 
 - 263 - 
240  HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
2^y.  That  each  person  that  liave  latelj^  arriven  to  the  age  of  sixteen  years 
be  Exempted  from  any  part  of  the  charges  that  hath  aheady  arisen  l)y  the 
hite  levy  of  men.  ;5'>'.  That  each  Lanlord  pay  this  tax  upon  the  farines 
IJented.  4'>.  Tliat  those  tliat  engaged  in  tlie  service  at  Cambridge  for 
eight  montlis.  in  the  year  1775,  be  allowed  credit  for  each  man.  £'J,  0.  0. 
5'>'.  That  those  that  served  six  weeks  be  allowed  credit  for  each  man, 
1.  0.  0.  G'>'.  Those  that  sei'ved  Two  montlis  have  credit  each  man,  1,  4,  0. 
7'-^ .  Tliose  that  served  in  the  Continental  army  in  1776  witliout  hire  have 
credit  each  man.  18,  0.  0.  8'y.  Those  that  went  to  Ticondirogue  without 
hire  have  Credit  each  man,  12,  0,  0,  9'y.  Those  that  went  to  the  lines 
without  hire  have  credit  each  man,  2,  0,  0.  lO^y.  Those  that  went  to  New 
York  2  months  without  hire  have  credit  each,  G,  0,  0.  ll'y.  Those  that 
went  to  New  York  3  months  without  liire  have  credit  each,  12,  0,  0.  Those 
men  that  have  advanced  money  to  hire  men  into  the  army  have  credit  for 
what  money  they  paid."' 
A  list  of  "what  each  person  hath  done  in  the  "War"  was  reported, 
liut  unfortunately  not  recorded  ;  it  would  l)e  verj-  interesting.  The 
town  accepted  the  repox't,  "save  the  2^*  article,"  and  voted  to  raise 
£900,  as  a  "tax  to  be  levied  on  Interest"  ;  also,  that  the  services  of 
ap[)rentices  and  .sons  under  age  be  set  to  their  masters  and  fathers. 
But  the  tax  on  interest  was  objected  to,  and  reconsidered  at  the  next 
meeting,  when  the  town  voted,  that  it  be  raised  "on  polls  and  estate 
in  the  usual  wa}-"  ;  and  that  apprentices  and  minors  should  receive 
one-half  of  the  credit  for  their  services.  The  latter  item  was  still 
not  satisfactory,  and  in  May  the  committee  was  instructed  "to  Drop 
the  Credit  tluit  was  to  be  set  to  INIinors  as  to  the  Back  Charges,"  but 
"to  keep  an  account  of  s*^  Credit  for  their  Benefit  in  some  futer  time." 
The  jjccuniary  embarrassments  became  more  and  more  serious  as  the 
Continental  currency  depreciated  ;  and  persons  with  fixed  incomes 
suffered  most.  This  appears  in  a  vote,  1777,  December  1,  "that 
the  selectmen  make  Mr.  Jonathan  Kidder,  our  Schoolmaster,  an 
addiquate  reward  for  his  services  in  some  measure,  as  things  haA'e 
risen."  The  extent  of  this  inflation  is  illustrated  in  the  salary-  of 
Dr.  Cumings.  This  was  £80.  But  for  the  year  ending  in  July, 
1779,  he  received  £380  ;  for  the  next  half-year,  £830  ;  and  for  the 
year  1781,  £9000.  In  other  words,  this  "Continental  currency"  had 
fallen  to  less  than  one  per  cent,  of  its  face  value.  It  had  become 
too  attenuated  to  be  reclaimed,  and  the  unfortunate  holders  of  it, 
soldiers  as  well  as  citizens,  suffered  greatly  in  its  utter  loss.  In 
1782  the  taxes  were  raised  in  specie,  and  the  pastor's  salary'  was 
again  £80. 
But  the  town  was  not  unmindful  of  its  patriotic  soldiers,  and 
 - 264 - 
tilE    IIEVOLLTIOX.  24l 
cared  for  their  nxmilies  in  eases  of  need.  Snch  aid  is  recorded,  in 
1777,  for  the  wives  of  Abijah  and  Josiah  Beard,  William  Britton, 
William  Currier,  Jesse  Danfoitli.  John  Edes,  and  Roger  Toothaker. 
In  giving  this  aid,  Mrs.  Cnrriei-  had  sevent^'-three  quarts  of  milk, 
at  ninepence  a  quart  ;  live  months'  house-rent  for  £3  ;  one  cord  of 
wood  for  £1,  lO.s.  ;  and  a  bushel  and  a  half  of  Indian  meal  for  the 
same.  In  1778  the  selectmen  are  instructed  "to  take  care  &  provide 
for  the  families  of  the  soldiers  that  are  out  in  the  Continental 
ami}',  according  to  their  Several  Circumstances,  and  keep  accounts 
thereof."  The  treasurer  is  also  instructed  "to  borrow  money  to  pay 
for  the  Cloathing,  provided  b^'  the  Selectmen  for  our  Soldiers  in  the 
Continental  Army." 
In  1778  the  proposals  for  the  Confederation  came  before  the 
town,  January  '23;  and  they  sav,  "although  they  apprehend,  some 
things  therein  Contained  are  no  so  agreeable,  yet  considering  the 
vast  Importance  of  the  whole  for  the  well  being  &  Hai)piness  of 
the  united  States  of  America,  A'oted  &  agreed  to  the  whole  of  s"^ 
Confederation,  and  that  Col.  W".  Tompson,  our  Kepresentative,  be 
and  he  is  hereby  Instructed  to  Jovne  with  the  honorable  house  of 
Representatives  in  any  measui'cs  they  Judge  best,  in  order  to  forward 
the  same  to  Congress." 
Another  call  for  recruits,  in  1778.  was  met  by  the  town's  offer 
of  £30  to  such  able-bodied  men  "as  siiall  Inlist  themselves  to  Joyne 
Gen.  Washington's  army  for  the  space  of  nine  months,  except  sooner 
Discharged,  in  order  to  fill  up  the  Continentall  army"  ;  and  £00  to 
such  persons  "as  shall  Inlist  themselves  as  militia  men  to  go  to  the 
North  River  for  eight  months."  The  selectmen  were  empowered  to 
borrow  mone}'  for  this  purpose,  and,  at  a  later  meeting,  £10  were 
added  in  each  case  to  these  offers.  In  October,  1778,  we  have  a 
glimpse  of  the  hopes  which  cheered  them  during  these  tr3'ing  3'ears 
in  the  report  of  a  committee,  appointed  to  estimate  the  back  services 
in  the  war,  who  say:  "That,  considering  the  many  services  done 
since  our  appointment  and  the  Diflficulty  of  estimating  them  Sepa- 
ratel}',  and  the  hopeful  pros[)ect  that  this  sumer's  campaign  will 
put  a  finall  end  to  services  of  this  sort,  it  is  our  oppinnion  that  one 
Committee  Consider  the  whole."  Whereupon  the  town  appointed  a 
committee  of  seven,  "to  estimate  the  back  services  since  the}'  went 
to  Ticonderogue,  since  the  war  rate  was  made  in  1777,  having 
Refference  to  the  former  settlement  Respecting  some  grievances 
that  some  persons  sustained  in  said  settlement,  according  to  their 
 - 265 - 
£2     n    0 
i; 
(1 
0 
la     4    0 
9  10     0 
i) 
10     0 
i) 
10     0 
16   10     0 
11     0    0 
9 
10 
242  HISTORt    OF    BILLERICA. 
Discretiou."  This  coumiittoe  iiuide  a  report  in  December,  wliich 
was  recommitted  for  revision  and  adopted,  1770,  January  4,  as 
follows  : — 
"'MMy.  1777.  Two  months  to  Rhode  Island,  set  at 
July,  1777.  Six  months  to  IJhode  Island. 
August,  1777.  Three  months  and  a  half  to  Bennington, 
Ortoher.  1777.  Forty-one  days  to  Saratoge. 
February.  177S.  Three  months  to  Boston, 
April,  1778.  Three  months  to  ('aml)ridge, 
July,  1778.  To  Rhode  Island;    all  hired  men. 
July,  1778.  Six  Months  to  the  Hill. 
August,  1778.  Six  "Weeks  to  IMiode  Island. 
September,  1778.  Three  months  to  Boston, 
If  we  had  the  names  of  the  men  employed  iu  these  A'arious 
services,  the  record  would  have  greater  interest  ;  but  it  is  safe  to 
assume  that  the  town  was  represented  in  all  ;  and  there  was  work 
for  the  comniittee  again  appointed,  Ma\'  13,  consisting  of  Jonathan 
Hill,  Ebenezer  Richardson,  Jonathan  Pollard,  Samuel  Rogers,  Josiah 
Crosby,  Joshua  Davis,  Jacob  Manning,  Thomas  Allen,  and  Jonas 
French,  "to  provide  for  the  families  of  those  persons  that  are  Gone 
out  of  this  town  into  the  Continental  Army."  At  the  same  meeting, 
"  the  Question  was  put  whether  the  town  at  this  time  will  have  a  new 
Constitution  or  form  of  Government,  and  it  passed  in  the  Negativ^e 
]>3'  fort}'  Votes." 
More  men  were  needed  in  1779,  and,  June  22,  a  committee  was 
appointed  to  procure  the  town's  quota,  '"to  go  into  the  Continental 
army  and  to  Rhode  Island."  July  5,  a  tax  was  levied,  of  "■thirteen 
thousand  dollars,"  for  the  purpose  of  paying  and  securing  the  needed 
men  ;  the  first  use  of  the  word  "dollar"  in  the  Records.  As  prices 
rose  and  the  value  of  the  currenc\'  became  more  doul)tful,  men  had 
reasonable  fears  as  to  enlisting  and  trusting  pronnses  of  future  pa}'- 
ments.  A  State  Convention  was  held,  and  resolutions  were  passed 
"for  the  Retreiving  the  Credit  of  our  Currency,"  which  Billerica 
adojited,  also  appointing  delegates  to  a  County  Convention,  August  5, 
at  Concord,  "  to  regulate  the  pi'ices  of  produce  and  manufactures," 
whose  proceedings  were  also  adopted  ;  and  a  connnittee  of  fifteen 
was  "chosen  of  Observation  to  see  that  the  Resolves  and  Recoih- 
mendations  of  the  State  and  Count}'  C'onvention  be  imnctually 
compl^-ed  with."  But  the  task  laid  upon  them  was  much  more 
hopeless  than  that  of  linding  men  wdiose  patriotism  would  respond 
to  the  call  of  Washington  ;  and   althougii  a  wei'k  later  the  Selectmen 
 - 266 - 
THE    UFAOLUTION.  243 
and  Coimiiittee  of  Corrc'si)oii(li'iice  were  united  with  this  one,  and 
"Impowered  and  directed  in  the  most  Vigorons  Manner  to  see 
that  there  l)e  no  breaking  over  or  evading  the  doings  of  the  said 
Convention,  and  tliat  the  breakers  tliereof  be  proceeded  against 
according  to  their  offences  ;  and  more  especiallj'  to  see  that  there 
be  no  bartering  in  Gold  and  Silver,  to  the  Ingur}'  of  onr  paper 
Cnrrency,"  prices  continued  to  rise,  the  regulations  could  not  be 
enforced,  and  the  end  came  in  thi'  utter  worthlessness  of  the  paper 
currency  thev  strove  so  resolutely-  to  sustain.  1780,  June  14,  another 
committee  was  appointed,  "to  procure  our  (juota  of  men  now  called 
for,  to  joinc  the  Continental  army";  and,  July  (3,  the  town  voted, 
that  *'the  sum  of  £'31,710  be  granted  as  a  tax  to  ))e  levied  upon 
polls  and  estates,  in  the  usual  manner,  for  hiring  nineteen  militia  to 
serve  three  months  in  tlie  army  ;  also,  to  hire  four  men  to  join  the 
Continerital  ai'my  for  six  months."  Some  of  the  men  who,  in  1777, 
had  enlisted  "for  three  years  or  the  war,"  had  returned,  and  the 
town  voted  that  they  be  rated  for  their  poll  tax.  Again,  1781, 
January  1,  a  committee  was  api)ointed,  "to  procure  our  quota  of 
men  *  upon  the  most  easy  terms  they  can."  A  tax  of  £27,000 
was  levied,  "to  procure  our  (^uota  of  Beef  for  Supplies  for  the 
army."  In  Juh'  another  tax  was  raised  for  the  same  purpose,  but 
the  terms  of  the  tax  were  changed  to  £180  "in  Specie."  The  poor 
Continental  currency  could  be  used  no  longer,  and  they  return  to 
the  specie  standard.  Another  and  a[)parently  the  last  call  for  men 
appears,  July  15;  and  a  tax  of  £2.")0  in  specie  is  levied,  "to  pay 
the  hire  of  the  men  now  called  for."  Lieut.  Isaac  Barron  was  to  be 
allowed  •'equal  hire  with  a  Private."  Yorktown  closed  the  campaign 
of  1781,  and  the  long  and  exhausting  contest  was  practically  ended. 
LIST  OF   SOLDIERS   FK03I   lilLLEKlCA    IX    THE    UEVOLl'TIONARY   WAR. 
Abbott.  f4eorge.  7.  Balihvui.  ^licah.  4.  0.  7.    Beard.  Josiah.  1,  2,  4. 
Abbott.  -lolni.  5.  l',:il(hviii.  44iom:is.  1.  Ik'll.  .John.  1.  2. 
Allen.  Jert'uiiah.  1.  I'.nldwiii.  Scrgt.  Win..  Ik'inictt,  Steijlicn,  .3. 
Angler,  Jesse,  U.S.  1.  2.  ;J.  r>l:uu-hanl.  Aliijali.  1.  2. 
Angier.  IJobert.  2.  liallard.  John.  0.  Hlaneliard.  Isaac,  (i. 
Baley.  Jonathan.  ;{.  Uarrett.  Luke.  <;.  Blauchard.  John.  1. 
Baldwin,  Benjamin.  1.  Barrett,  ytephen.  1.  4.  Blaneliai-il,  Josiah.  2,  3. 
2,  'S.  4.  G.  Barron.  Lt.  Isaac.  8.  Blanehard,  Jotliani.  2,3. 
Baldwin.  Benj..  jr.,  2.  Beard.  Abijah.  1.  2.  4.  Blanehard.  Justus.  1.  2, 
Baldwin.  Isaac.  4.  G.  Jieard.  Benjamin.  1.  4.6. 
Baldwin,  Jacob,  :^.  G.  Beaiil,  Isaac.  1.  II.  Blanehard.  Nath"!.  1.  
4.  
6. 
Baldwin,  Jeremiah.  2.  3.  Beard,  Isaac,  jr.,  S.  Blanehard,  Paul.  2. 
 - 267 - 
244                          HISTORY   OF   CILLElllCA. 
LIST  OF  SOLDIEHS   IN  THE   UKVOLL'TK  >NARY  WAR.—  Contimied. 
Bliinchiird.  Samuel.  1. 
BlaiK-liaril.  Timothy.  1, 
•2.  -A.  7. 
Bowel'.*.  Benj..  1.  "2.  'u 
Bowers.  Denison.  8. 
Bowers.  John.  1). 
Bowers.  ,I(Miathaii,  4.  (J. 
Bowers.  .Josiah.  1. 
Bradeii.  Kiehard.  1.  7. 
Bridge,  ('ol.  Eheuezei'. 
Bridiie.  Samuel.  2. 
Britton.  Win..  1,  1.  (;,  S. 
Brown.  Thomas.  2.  (I.  7. 
Bush))}-.  Jlol^ert.  (J. 
Butler.  John.  !). 
Cajoe,  John.  (i. 
Caldwell,  ]Medtord,  4. 
6,  8. 
Calley,  Peter,  G. 
Carleton,  John.  1. 
Ciirleton.  Solomon,  li. 
Cary.  Samu<d.  1.  2. 
Chaniherlain,  Sil:is,  2. 
Clark.  Samuel,  '.i. 
Colwell.  William,  2. 
Conant.  Fortune,  4,  6. 
Cook,  Sears,  1. 
Corey,  Jacob,  1. 
Craige,  Thomas.  G. 
Crosby,  Jai-ob.  3,  *1776. 
Crosby,  Jeremiah,  ">. 
Crosby,  Joel.  4,  G.  8. 
Crosby,  John,  5,  6. 
Crosby.  Josiah,  1. 
Crosby.  I.t.  Oliver.  1.  2. 
Crosby,  Simon.  2.  3. 
Ci'osby,  Timothy,  2,  3. 
Currier,  AVilliam.  4.  G.  7. 
Danforth.  Abtd.  2,  *. 
Danforth.  David.  3. 
Danforth,  Capt.  Elijah. 
1,  2.  3. 
Danforth,  Isaac.  G. 
Danfoith.  Jacol).  G. 
Danforth.  Jesse,  2.  4.  8. 
Danforth.  John,  2.  4.  8. 
Danforth.  Corp.  Josiah. 
1.  2.  3. 
Danforth.  Peter.  G.  7. 
Danforth.  Seth.  7. 
Danforth,  Corp.  Wm.. 
2.  3,  5.  G. 
Danly,  Corp.  John.  2. 
4,  8. 
Davis,  Benj.,  1,  2.  3. 
Davis,  John.  G. 
Davis,  Joseph,  1,  *1777. 
Davis.  Timothj',  1. 
Dike.  John,  7,  8. 
Ditson.  Benjamin,  3. 
Ditson.  John.  2. 
Ditson.  Samuel,  1.  G,  8. 
Ditson,  Seth.  4. 
Ditson.  Thos..  jr..  1,4,  G. 
Dixon.  John.  G. 
Dow.  Nathan,  proh.  3. 
Dows.  l?enjamin.  1.2.3. 
Dows,  Klea/er,  (i. 
Dows.  Josepli.  3. 
Dunklee.  Isaac.  8. 
Dunklee,  J(tseph.  5. 
Dunklee.  \ath;in. 
Duii-ent.  Joseph.  ."). 
Dutton,  Benjamin,  1 .  2. 
Dutton,  'J'imothy,  G. 
Easte,  Benj.,  1.  *]776. 
Easte.  Benj..  jr..  7. 
Edes.  John.  4,  (). 
Farmer.  Aaron.  G. 
Farmer.  ( 'apt.  Edw.  1 .  
Farmer.  Edward,  1.  2. 3. 
Farmer,  Edward,  a. 
Farmer,  Lt.  John.  1. 
Farmer.  Joseph,  1. 
Farmer.  Oliver,  1,3. 
Farmer,  Oliver,  jr..  8. 
Faruier.  Thomas.  3. 
Fish.  Jonathan.  2.  G. 
Fletcher.  Sanniel.  2,  G. 
Foster,  Abiel.  S. 
Foster,  Isaac.  T). 
Foster,  John.  1.  2,  4.  G. 
Foster,  Joseph,  1. 
Foster.  Sauuiel,  G. 
Foster.  Smith.  6.  8. 
Fox.  Joseph.  1. 
French.  Ebenezer.  2.  .").*. 
French.  John.  3. 
French.  Jonathan.  1. 
French.  Jonathan,  jr..  8. 
French.  Nicholas.  1.  2. 
French.  Sanmel.  3.  G. 
French.  [«  dritmmf'r'\.H. 
Fi-ost.  Joshua.  2. 
(Jleason.  Thomas,  2. 
<;leason.  W  iiiiam.  1 .
(Joodw  in.  ^^'illi.•^m.  2. 
(iray.  IJraviter.  (>.  8. 
(irav.  Timothy.  2. 
(Jriltin.  Sergt.' Uriah.  3. 
Hans.  Charles.  3. 
Ilarily.  Nehemiah,  3. 
lleckel,  William,  8. 
Ileywood,  Benjamin.  2. 
Hill.  Alpheus.  3. 
Hill.  David.  G.  7. 
Hill.  Jeremiah.  1.  2. 
Hill.  Peter.  1. 
Hill.  I'aul. 
Hill.  Lt.  Sanuifl.  1.  2. 
*177G,  June  17. 
Hill.  William.  3. 
Hill,  [name  lost^.  3. 
Holt.  Isaac.  1.  2. 
Howard.  Samuel.  2. 
Inii'als.  Moses.  8. 
Jaquith.  Abraham.  3. 
Jaquith.  Daniel.  G. 
Ja(puth.  El)ene/er.  2. 
Ja(piith.  Joseph.  3. 
Jaquith,  Samuel.  3. 
Jaquirh.  Timothy.  8. 
Johnson.  Jonah.  6. 
Johnson.  Timothv.  6. 
Kemp.  William.  2. 
K<'ndall.  IJeuben.  1. 
Keys,  Elijah,  prob.  3. 
Kidder.  Euijch.  3.  6. 
Kidder,  Isaac,  2. 
Kidder.  John,  f). 
Kidder.  Jonathan,  4. 
Kidder.  Cor]).  Sam'.  1.  2. 
Kidder.  Lt.  Solomon.  2. 
3,  *177G,  Nov.  20. 
Kidder.  Thomas.  4.  G. 
Kiilam.  Corp.  Daniel, 
1.  2. 
Kittredge.  Daniel.  3. 
Kittredge,  Jonathan.  G. 
Kittredge.  Nathaniel.  3. 
Kittredge.  Sergt.  Wm.. 
0.  G." 
Ead.  Nathaniel.  G. 
Landerkin.  Matthew.  7. 
Laws.  John.  2. 
I^eeman,  Ebene/er.  3.  G. 
I>evistone.  David.  2.  4.  G. 
Levistone.  Isaac.  1.  2. 
Ijcvistone,  Seth,  2. 
Levistone.  Thomas,  3. 
licvistone.  William.  5.  G. 
Lewis,  Corp.  Benjamin. 
1.  2.  3.*. 
Lewis.  Lt.  James.  1. 
Lewis.  Lt.  John.  1.  2,  G. 
INIace.  Joseph,  1.  2. 
Maiming.  Solomon,  1. 
Planning.  AVilliam.  2. 
]\Iarshail,  .\sa.  3. 
Marshall.  Jacob,  1.  5. 
Marshall.  James,  o. 
 - 268 - 
THE    REVOLUTION.  245 
LIST  OF  SOLDIERS   IN   THE   KEVOLUTIONAUY   WAR:-  Contimied. 
jrai'shall,  Jesse,  5.  Kuggles,  Joseph,  4,  G.  Tarbell,  Williaiii.  jr..  1. 
]MeIntire.  Elias.  0.  liuss.  Daniel.  ;j.  Tompson,  CoL  Win..  ]. 
Mears.  Jolni.  2.  IJuss,  Nathan,  G.  Toothaker.  Jloger.  4.  (!. 
^loore.  Benjamin,  8.  IJuss.  Sergt.  Sam',  1.  2.  Toothaker,  Tiniotlij-,  1. 
Needham,  Seri^t.  Benj.,  8an(l<'rs.  lienj..  1.  2.  *177G. 
1.  G.  San(l<M-s.  Benj..  jr..  1.  Totman,  Jolni.  1.  7. 
Xeedhani,  John.  4.  Sanders.  Eljenezer.  1,  3.  Trull.  John,  2. 
Osgood.  Joseph.  2.  Sanders,  Francis,  7.  TridJ.  Sainutd,  1,  2. 
Osgood.  Phincas.  (L  Sanders.  John.  1.  Trull.  Sanniel.  jr.,  1. 
Parker,  Sergt.  John,  jr.,   Sandi-l'S,  Jonas,  1,  2.  Trull,  Willard,  7,  8. 
1.  3.  Sanders,  Joshua.  G.  7.  Tuder.  Franeis.  9. 
Parker.  Levi.  G.  Sanders.  Solomon.  1.  Tut'ts.  David.  7. 
Parker.  Simeon.  9.  Searlet.  Lt.  Newman.  8.  Walker.  David,  6. 
Parker.  William.  3.  Shed.  David,  4,  G.  Walker.  Sergt.  Eliakim, 
Patten.  Asa.  1.                  '  Shed.  Jolui.  G.  2.  S,  4. 
Patten.  John.  jr..  1.  Shed.  Jonathan.  .").  (i.  AValker,  Ezekiel,  1,G.  8. 
Patten.  William.  S.  Shed.  Nathan.  5,  G.  Walker.  Joel.  1.  2. 
Pollard.  Asa,  2.  *177G.  Shed.  Keuhen.  4.  G.  Walker.  Samuel.  1,  2. 
June  17.  Slied,  Thomas.  2.  A\  hite.  George,  (i. 
Pollard.  Benjamin.  1.  li.  Shipperson.  John.  9.  White.  Isaac.  1. 
Pollard,  Edxvard.  3..J.G.  Snow,  Piehard,  1,  G.  Whiting,  Abel,  G. 
Pollard.  Jona.  P..  2.  G.  Si)aulding,  .\sa,  1,  2.  Whiting,  Caleb,  7. 
P(dlard,  Capt.  Solomon.  Spaulding.  Benoni,  .").  AVhiting.  Christopher,  2*. 
2.  G.  S|»aulding.  Joseph.  .").  7.   Whiting.  John.kl.  2,  G. 
Pollard.  S;)loinon.  jr..  1.  S[)rake.  Bcnjauun.  2.  AVhiting.  Jonas.  2. 
2.  ;},  9.  '  S[)rake.  Xieiiolas.  2.  Whiting.  Joshua,  8. 
Pollen.  Edward.  'A.  S[)rake.  Sammd.  2.  \Vhiting.  Samuel.  2,  .'{. 
Peed.  .Tereuiiali,  1.  2.  Spring.  Sam"l.  />ro//.  7.8.  AVhiting.  Timothy.  1,  2. 
Kiehardson,  Asa,  4.  G.  Stearns.  Benj..  3.  G.  7.  Whiting.  Tim",  jr.,  1.  2. 
Piehardson,  Ebenezer.  Stearns,  Lt.  Edward.  1.  AVilson,  Abraham,  4. 
1,  2.  Stearns.  Isaae.  2.  AVilson,  Benjamin.  2,  3. 
Piehardson.  Lt.  Jaeob.  Stearns,  John,  G.  AA'ilson,  Lsaac,  7. 
1.  3.  Stearns.  Jonathan,  4,  G.  Wilson.  John,  L  2,  4.*. 
Pi(diardson.  Jona. , jr. ,1.  Stearns.  JoseiJi,  7.  Wilson.  John,  jr.,  G.  8. 
Pieliardson.  Joseph.  I.  Stearns,  Josiah,  4,  o.  Wilson,  Joseph.  1,  2.  5. 
Rieliardson,  Josiah,  1.  (>,  8.  Wilson,  Solomon,  3. 
Pieliardson.  Nath"l.  2.  Stearns,  Nathaniel,  4.  6.  Winslow,  Benjamin.  2. 
Piehai'dson.  Oliver.  L  3.  Stearns.  Oliv(n%  1.  a  prisoner  after  Bunker 
Pieliardson.  SanTl.  L  3.  Stearns.  Timothy,  8.  Hill. 
Jfiehardson.  4'ho..L2.4.  Stearns.  AVilliam,  2.  Wright,  Josiah,  G,  8. 
Pol)bin>.  Eiihraim.  3.  Stevens,  Simeon,  I.2.G.  AVyuian.  Amaziah,  3,  4.  G. 
Pobbins,  Jona..  2.  3.  Stiukney.  Daniel.  1.  AVyman,  Increase,  3. 
Pogers.  ('apt.  Samuel,  Stickney,  David.  1.  Wvman,  Nathaniel,  I. 
jr..  1.  2.  3.*.  Stiekney.  Lt.  Jona..  1.  *1775,  April  19. 
Poot.  Peter,  8.  Stickne3\  AVilliam.  1.  Four  ohliUi-aied  names  of 
Poss.  Jt)hn,  1.  Stinger.  Jesse,  (i.  soldiers  in  the  service  of 
Poss,  Saumel.  7.  Tarbell.  John.  7.  1777. 
The  numerals  :il)Ove  refer  to  various  services,  which  are  im})er- 
fei'tly  outlined  as  follows  :  — 
(1.)  Service  in  1775,  including  the  company  of  minute-men  and 
all  known  to  have  been  at  Lexington,  and  in  the  army  at  Cambridge. - 
-  ifasmchusetts  Archives.  Vols.:  Lexington  Alarm,  XII,  10  and  T:j,  and  \\l,  21.— 
Tutvn  Records.    Vol.  IV,  October,  1770. 
 - 269 - 
216  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
(2.)  Service  in  177(),  incliKliiig  the  bnltle  ol"  Bunker  Hill  and 
the  siihsefjuent  siege  of  Boston."  Seventy-five  of  these  men  served 
eight  months,  and  claimed  a  "'coat,"  promised  for  that  service. 
(3.)  Service  in  1777.  Tiurty-two  men  under  Captain  Edward 
Farmer,  who  marched  "to  reinforce  the  Northern  Army,"  which  was 
fighting  Hnrgoyne  at  Bennington  and  Saratoga,  are  included  above. 
Colonel  Bridge  also  marched  with  a  detachment,  on  the  "Bennington 
alarm"  ;  went  ninety  miles,  and  was  dismissed  by  General  Lincoln. 
Xo  roll  of  his  men  is  found. ^ 
(4.)  Men  who  enlistod  in  1777,  "for  three  3'ears  or  the  war,"  in 
the  Continental  Army.'' 
(5.)  In  service,  177<S,  in  Ivhode  Island;  on  Bunker  Hill  from 
Fel)ruar3-  to  May,  and  elsewhere." 
(().)  vService  in  1779,  including  a  detachment  "to  join  the 
Continental  army  and  march  to  Claverick,"  and  recruits. '^ 
(7.)  Service  in  17M(J,  recruits,  and  a  detachment  of  sixteen  men, 
who  "marched  220  miles  and  served  four,  five,  and  six  months.""^ 
(8.)    'Men  in  service,  1781,  "for  3  years  or  the  war."'' 
(9.)     Seven  men  on  board  the  privateer  "Essex,"  in  17SU.'" 
This  list  of  Revolutionary  soldiers  is  necessaril}-  imperfect. 
Many  of  the  rolls  are  lost  ;  and  it  would  take  months  of  lalioi" 
to  go  over  the  mass  which  is  preserved,  but  imperfectly  indexed, 
with  such  care  that  no  name  from  any  town  would  be  likely  -to 
escape.  The  town  had  representatives  in  various  directions  where 
no  rolls  of  such  service  are  found.  If  we  had  these  lost  records, 
they  would  probal)ly  add  lifty  and  jx-rhaps  one  hundred  to  the  three 
hundred  and  seventeen  enumerated  above,  ^^'hen  we  remember  that 
the  census  of  177G  gave  the  town  a  po[)nlation  of  ITjOO,  we  can  see 
in  part  to  what  extent  these  patriotic  fathers  gave  service  and  life,  to 
found  the  nation.  Their  children  should  never  forget  at  what  a  price 
they  gained  freedom  for  themselves  and  coming  generations. 
This  chapter  may  fitly  close  with  the  tax  list  for  177(i,  with  such 
memoranda  appended  as,  in  the  absence  of  a  map,  Avill  help  those 
who  are  iulcrt'sted  to  locate  most  of  these  patriotic  tax-payers,  and 
revive  the  memory  of  the  town  as  it  was  one  hundred  3'ears  ago. 
8  Massiichusetts  Archives:  Coat  Holls,  178-8(1,  is^;   and  Vol.  XXII,  No.  5C0. 
*  Massachusetts  Archives.  Vol.  XIX.     Muster  Rolls,  No. '38.     ^'ol.  XXVI,  No.  10. 
'<  
Massacliii setts  ArMves  :  /iolls.     \'ol.  ,\LI. 
<■■  
Massachusetts  Archives  .-  Rolls.     Vols.  XIX,  No.  7(\,  and  XXVI,  l.!.,'  and  L'l:!. 
'  Mas.iachusetls  Archives.  Vols.  .\XI,  185,  and  XXVII,  UKK 
8  Massarhit.fetts  Archives.  Vols.  XXIX,  7,  and'XX.WII,  17. 
"  Massachusetts  Archives:  ^fllsler  /lolls,     ^'ol.  XXIX,  No.  (io. 
1"  Massachusetts  Archives:  Muster  /lolls.     Vol.  .\  L,  No.  i:t. 
 - 270 - 
THE    REVOLUTION.                                247 
TAX-UST.  —  irro,  Df:ckmbkk. 
[Residences  known  to  the  compiler  are  added.  Some  are  only  approximate.  The  East 
Road  is  the  road  runninf;-  from  the  foot  of  "rocTiey  hill,"  east  of  the  village,  to  the  Wohnrn 
Road,  near  the  Shawshin;  and  by  the  Shawshin  Iioad  I  designate  the  road  which  rnns  east 
from  this  road  to  the  river,  and  thence  north  to  the  Wilmington  Ro.ad.  The  .Shawshin 
District  is  east  of  the  river,  between  the  AVoburn  and  Wilmington  ro.ads.  The  "Corner," 
here  and  elsewhere,  designates  the  locality  at  the  foot  of  the  liill,  on  Long  Street,  near 
the  Concord  River  briilge.  The  two  roads  between  the  Woburn  and  Bedford  roads  1  call 
"Lexington"  and  "East  Lexington."] 
lleiirv  Crosby  place.  Woburn  Road. 
Old  Fletclicrhouse,  East  RoatL 
Sanborn  place.  we.st  of  L(jng-  St. 
Paul  Hiir.s  place,  ea^t  of  Connnon. 
Wilniin<>'t()n  Road.  J)ea.  King's  pi. 
Miss  Sophia  Allen.  East  Road. 
,                                                                                                      Province  Tax. 
Abbot.  David                     £.5 
LS 
0 
Abbot.  David,  jr.                     S    8 
!) 
Al)b()t.  Josluia                        4  n    G  2 
Abbot.  Oliver                          a 
Allen,  Hannah                       K)     5  2 
'] 
1  10  2 
Allen.  Jer>^                                          1  15     ;j 
Allen.  Tho^                             1 
Baldwin.  Abel                       3  L5 
Baldwin.  Benj.                            lo     4 
13     8 
Baldwin.  Benj..  jr.                       10 
Baldwin,  .b'r'' 
10 
Baldwin,  John 
•) 
.") 
Baldwin,  .John.  jr.                   S    4 
10 
Baldwin,  Maiy                   2           H 
:^ 
Baldwin.  Micah 
Baldwin.  Sam'                       2  10 
:} 
11 
Baldwin.  Tho'* 
•y 
s   11   2 
Baldwin.  Th()S                                 10 
Baldwin.  William                     10 
Baley,  Jonathan 
Barrett.  Jose[)h                             0 
Barron.  Isaac                                       10 
11 
;j 
Bearil,  Abijah                            10 
Beard.  Beii)-'                                   1  11 
10 
2 
B'ard,  Isaac                              2    2    0 
Beard,  John                              10 
Bell.  John                             2  12      1  2 
Blanchard.  .fohn                      1 
10   11 
2 
Blanchard.  Sam'                   A     0     8 
Blanchard.  Sam',  jr.               1     1    n 
Blanchard.  Simon               2  17 
Bonner,  ^Villiam                                10 
Bowers.  Benj"                             10 
Bowers.  Jonathan                   10 
Bowers.  Josiah                      a  10 
14   10 
Bowers.  Josiah.  jr.                  1  12     5 
Bowers,  William                  5 
(i 
11 
Bowman,  Francis                  1   17     5 
Bi'idge.  Col.  Ebenezer .  [jiot,  on 
Ii.-<t^ . 
Brown,  Josiah                        1    8 
i) 
Blown.  Nathi                         1  1!)      0   2 
Brown.  Sam'                          1  1!) 
lirown.  Sam'.  ji\                       1  1!)      2 
Brown.  'rho>^                                    1 
1.-) 
Caldwell,  Adam                 2  14     2  1 
<  arlcton.  John                     4  1(5      5  2 
Carleton.  .lohn.  jr.                  1  12 
(•) 
Carleton,  Moses                   1    7 
6- 
Joel  Baldwin's,  Shawsliin  Road. 
[Stickney. 
West  of  Long  Street,  north  of  Win. 
Holden  place.  Shaw.-hin  Road. 
Stearns  pi.,  north  of  How'e  School. 
Near  Catholic  Church. 
Shawshin  District. 
East  Road,  Asa  Holden  place. 
Burrows  place,  east  of  Woburn  St. 
Clough  pi..  East  Lexington  Road. 
Dr.  Xoyes"  pi..  Lexington  Street. 
East  Lexington  Road. 
Near  Mr.  Cowdry's,  west  side. 
Hotel  w.  of  Long  St..  so.  end  village. 
East  of  Long  Street  Hotel,  near  Mr. 
Kimball  jilace.  Andover  St.  [Proud- 
[foot's. 
Old  Danforth  place,  on  West  St. 
Bowman  ])lace,  on  Lexington  Road. 
Head  of  the  lane  east  of  Long  St. 
Near  Henry  Duranfs,  west  side. 
AVilmington  Road,  near  the  school- 
Isaac  BroA\'n  place.                     [house. 
Probably  at  North  Billerica. 
Road  to  Winnino-'s  Pond. 
 - 271 - 
218                          HISTORY    OF    IJILLEKICA. 
Carleton,  Xathan 
Carleton.  .Solomon 
Cary.  Sam' 
Conant.  William 
Cook.  Paul 
Cook,  Sears 
Crosby.  Kph 
Crosby,  Francis 
Crosby.  Hezokiali 
Crosby.  James 
Croslty.  .losiali 
Crosby,  .Josiali.  ^V'id.  Ko. 
Crosby,  Oliver 
Crosby,  .Seth 
Cumings.  Kev.  Henry. 
Currier.  Will'" 
Danforth.  Benja 
Danforth.  David 
Danforth.  Elijah 
Danforth.  do.'  Jos.VVarie 
Danforth.  .lesse 
Danforth,  Josiah 
Danforth,  Sam' 
Danforth,  I'imothy 
Davis,  Jose])h 
Davis,  Joshua 
Ditsou,  Sam' 
Ditson,  Thos 
Dows,  Benj'' 
Dows,  Benj'^,  jr. 
Dows,  Eben> 
Dows,  Eben\  jr. 
Dows,  Eleazar 
Dows,  Sam' 
-  Dutton,  Benj 
Easte.  Benj.  [)tot  <>ii  Ust 
Edes.  John 
Farmer.  Edward 
Farmer.  Edward,  jr. 
Farmer.  John 
Farniei-,  Joseph 
Farmer.  Oliver 
Faimer.  IJebekah 
Farrier.  Elioner 
Fletehei-.  Samuel 
Foster.  Isaac 
Foster.  Jose])h 
Foster.  Sarah 
Fox.  Joseph 
French,  El)en'^ 
French,  Ei)en'.  jr. 
French.  Jacob 
French.  John 
French.  Jon'' 
French,  Jonas 
French.  Sarah 
Frost,  Joshua 
TA.\-LI8T.  —  Coiitiitual. 
Province  Tax. 
£       13  1   2     . 
13  1) 
1(1 
■2  1  J 
•2     1  10  2 
2  1  3 
3  13  11  2 
1  1     4 
4  8  2 
13  1   2 
3     !)  11 
32    12     'J  2 
13     12 
l_)iut  taxed']. 
10 
1  12     2  2 
2 101     7 
nland.   4 
18 
1    15 
4  8 
1  IS 
1      1 
15    111 
12   10 
14  11 
3  T)     4 
11 
li) 
r.) 
IS 
10 
(ni<l<hr<10  dscd] 
2  10 
12 
10 
2  15 
12 I 
4  2 
!) 
1  2 
2 
1 
3 
(I  2 
1 
4  1 
3 
2  2 
() 
4  2 
1(1  10  2 
5  10  2 
104      7 
10 
14 
3 112  
1  18 
3     0 
3  3 
12 
4  13 
18 
3 
8 
3 
2 
1  2 
0  2 
1  2 
(; 
<; 
4  2 
Harrington  pi.,  Shawshin  District. 
Crosby  i)lace,  Shawshin  lload. 
Crosby  j)!..  east  of  Nutting's  Pond. 
Knowles  ]tl..  near  S.  School-house. 
Mason  place,  near  S.  School-house. 
Fisk  place,  south  of  Nutting's. 
Dr.  Hubbard's.  Bedford  Street. 
Near  P^ssex  i)lace.  East  Road. 
31 1-.  ^\'ilitman■s,  Bedford  Street. 
Davis  ))lace.  T^ong  Pond  Road. 
Woburn  Koad.  near  line. 
Woburn  Road. 
Blood's  place,  west  side. 
Near  Deacon  Spaulding's. 
Near  Corner,  just  south  of  road  to 
Shawshin  District.          [Davis  place. 
South  of  his  brother  Edward. 
Lexington  Koad. 
Shawshin  District. 
Bet\ve<'n  Andover  Street  and  Eong 
[Pond  Road. 
Probably  East  Road. 
East  Road,  near  Andover  Street. 
11  10  2 
 - 272 - 
THE    KEVOLUTIOK.                                 249 
TAX-Ll.ST.  —  Continued. 
Frost.  William 
Gleason.  Will'" 
Gray.  Tim" 
Hale.  Josiah 
Hall,  Lydia 
Hans.  Charles 
Hardj%  Eben'" 
Henry,  John 
Henry.  John.  jr. 
Hill.  Benj 
Hill.  Jei-^ 
Hill.  Job 
Hill,  Jon" 
Hill.  Joseph 
Hill.  Joseph,  jr. 
Hill.  Nathi 
Hill.  Paul 
Hill.  Peter 
Hill,  Ralph 
Hill.  Solomon 
Hill.  Will'" 
Hosley.  Martha 
Jaquith,  .\br"' 
Jaquith.  Abr'".  jr. 
Jaquith,  Eben' 
Ja(iuitli.  Josejjh 
Jet'ts.  Henry 
Jefts.  Henry,  jr. 
Jefts.  8ime(m 
Jones.  Jose])}! 
Kirtder,  Enoch 
Province  Tax. 
£1  17  4  2 
2  13 
10 
10 
11 
10 
1  5 
2  12 
10 
11 
10 
12  (5 
G  9  11 
S  13     1 
1  10 
4     8 
10 
3  0 
2  10 
10 
2     4 
1  2 
1  2 
4  2 
3 
3  2 
3  2 
3 
0  2 
1  17 
1     4 
2  11 
3  2 
Eph'" 
Jonathan. 
Lydia 
Sam'' 
Sam',  jr. 
Kiddei 
Kiddei 
Kiddei 
Kidder 
Kiddei 
Kidder.  Tho 
Kidder.  Will 
Kidder.  Will.  jr. 
Kindall.  Reuben 
Kindall.  Reuben. 
Kittredge.  Neh 
Kneehind.  John 
Eami)son.  Sam' 
Laws,  Eunice 
Laws.  John 
Laws.  \Vill'" 
T.,evistone,  David 
Levistone.  Isaac 
Levistone.  John 
Ijevistone.  Seth 
I.,evistone,  Seth.  [ 
Levistone.  Tho'» 
Levistone.  Tim" 
Lewis.  Benj 
Lewis.  James 
Lewis.  John 
\_not 
12 
2  12  17 
1  10     6 
2  11 
1   17 
oil    IlKt]. 
1   12     7 
5  19  10 
10 
1   19  10 
8  2 
0 
2 
9 
4 
4 
9 
■) 
8 
1  2 
22   IS7  
4     1 
10 
3  .1 
(i 
2  19 
2 
2  8 
2 
12 
10 
10 
1  1 
10 
3  17 
1  0 
2  2 
2    l.T 
13 
1  2 
(i  3 
3 
1  2 
9 
3) 
8  2/ 
Shawshin  District. 
In  Carlisle. 
In  Carlisle. 
In  Carlisle. 
In  Carlisle. 
Mr.  Perrin's  i)lace. 
The  Lyons  place.  Bedford  Street. 
Mrs.  Boyden's  place.  Bedford  St. 
Over  Concord  River. 
Over  (A)ncord  River. 
Mrs.  Judkins's  place,  Bedford  St. 
South  of  Dr.  Hosmer's. 
Ja(piith  i)lace. 
East  of  Bedford  St..  south  part. 
Jacjuith  place. 
Near  iron  brido-e.  west  side. 
Boston  Road. 
I'arker  place,  .south  of  West  Street. 
East  of  road  beyond  the  (  orner. 
McEUitrotfs,  on  Bedford  Street. 
Probably  near   Mr.  Elliofs.  North 
[Billerica. 
Wilmington  Road,  near  Shawshin. 
East  Road,  ]Mr.  Sanborn's. 
Lowell  Road,  at  the  turn  lo  North 
Billeiica. 
One  of   these  cousins  lived  at   the 
Nason  jdace. 
Andover,  near  Salem.  Road. 
Andover,  near  Salem.  Road. 
 - 273 - 
250                          HISTORY    or   BILLERICA. 
]M!H'('.  .loscpli 
Maiiiiiiiii'.  Bi'iij 
."M;iniiiii<i'.  Kli])!! 
Miiniiiiiii,'.  .liK'olt 
.Maiiniuii',  Jcs.^c 
Mnnniug.  Solomon 
3I;iiiniiig\  Will'" 
3Iarsh:ill,  Isaac 
^larshall.  Isaac,  jr. 
-Marsliall.  Jacob' 
.Miller.  John 
Monroe.  Aaron 
^Fonroe.  Jos('])h 
Monroe.  Joshua 
3Ionroe.  Nathan 
Needhani,  BenJ" 
Xeedhani,  John 
Xeedhani.  Keb'' 
Xeedhani.  AVill 
Xickles.  James 
X'ickli's.  do.  for  fiitlR'i's 
Xickles.  John 
XMckles.  John.  ji\ 
X'ickles.  Joseph 
(Jsg'ood,  Josejdi 
Parker,  John 
Parker,  Levi 
Parker,  XaMi' 
Parsons.  I)a\id 
Patten,  Asa 
Patten.  John 
Patten.  .John.  jr. 
Patten.  William 
Pollard,  Benj' 
Pollard.  Edwai-d 
Pollard.  Jon" 
Pollard.  Sol" 
Itichardson.  Ebez' 
iJichardson.  El)e/,',  jr. 
Jiichardson.  Jacob 
J'ichardson,  .Jon' 
Pichardson.  Jon',  jr. 
Itichardson.  Josepli 
JJichardson.  Josiah 
Picliardson.  Uliver 
Richardson.  Sam' 
Picliardson.  Sam'.  Jr. 
Jiichanlson.  Ste]>li  n 
JJichardson.  'i'lio- 
Jnchanlson.  Will'" 
Jlobbins.  Jonas 
Ivogers,  Sam' 
llogers,  Thomas 
Pog'ors,  Zebadiali 
Kog'ers.  Zebadiali.  jr. 
lioss.  John 
TAX-IJ.ST.  —  Continued. 
Trovincc  Tux. 
£     U) 
1    10     1  2 
1  IT) 
17     (I 
2  7     2  2 
IG     S 
10 
•> 
1  17 
7 
10 
2 
2  4 
2  5 
2  10 
2  (> 
1  IS) 
18 
•>  !) 
s(i  
8 
1 
1 
1  IT) 
2  (5 
10 
6  11 
1  17' 
2  !) 
10 
2   1.5 
11 
2     J 
2  S 
1      1 
3  IS 
4 
5  15 
4  6 
1   17 
1  la 
2  \3 
12 
4  5 
1  4 
H  1.5 
■A     !) 
1     4 
10 
1  12 
S 
(J 
10 
11  2 
2  2 
7 
•  
(i    • 
10 
S  2 
1   2 
10  2 
S 
10  2 
7 
8  2 
8 
1   2 
4 
7 
10  1 
8  1 
2 
1  :i 
8  2 
4  2 
10  2 
2  1 
•A     A 
1  18 
2  14 
10 
2  13 
G 
1 
n  1 
7  :i 
Cutler  jilace.  west  side. 
Jesse  3Ianniiig's  place.  Treble-Cove 
(iarrison-house.  (  helmsfoi'd  [Road. 
IJoad. 
Old  Marshall  place,  East  Koad. 
In  Carlisle. 
In  Carlisle. 
In  Carlisle. 
Xear  South  Cemeterj-. 
In  Carlisle. 
In  ( 'arlisle. 
In  Carlisle. 
In  Carlisle. 
In  Carlisle. 
South  of  Common. 
In  Carlisle. 
In  Carlisle. 
Wilmin^lon  Koad.  near  Shawshin. 
Pattenvllle. 
West  of  Long  Street,  near  Corner. 
East  of  Eordway. 
Southeast  of  P'ordway.  [Street. 
South  of  John  I'arker's.  on   Boston 
Spaulding"  i)I..  south  Howe  School. 
East  Road,  near  Web's  Brook. 
Woburn  IJoad.  Spaulding  place. 
East  Road,  near  Pusho  i)lace. 
Disused  road,  from  Andover  Street 
[near  Salem  to  Sliawshin  Road. 
Corner,  near  old  Cemetery. 
X'ear  railroad  station. 
Shawshin  Dist..  near  Wilmington. 
Mrs.  Sage's.  Bedford  Street. 
Corner.  .Fones  jilai-e. 
In  Carlisle. 
Near  Fordway. 
Xear  Alms-house. 
llolden  ])lace.  near  AVinning's. 
 - 274 - 
THE    DEVOLUTION. 
251 
TAX-LIST.  —  CuidiHued. 
Kuggles.  Joseph 
Ryan.  David 
Sanders.  Benj 
Sand(MS.  David 
Sanders.  Ebenezer 
Sanders.  James 
Sanders.  J<jjni 
Sanders,  Jonas 
Sanders.  Sol" 
Shed.  Daniel 
Shed.  Hannah 
Shed.  John 
Shed,  Joseph 
Shed,  Joseph,  jr. 
Shed.  Keuben 
Shed.  Tho'* 
Sims.  Stephen 
Skilton.  John 
Snow.  Kiehard 
Spaulding.  Asa 
Sprake.  Benj 
Sprake.  Nieiiolas 
Sprake.  Nicholas,  jr 
Sprake.  Sam' 
Sprake.  Sam',  jr. 
Stearns,  Isaac 
Stearns,  Isaac,  jr. 
Stearns.  John 
Stearns.  Xath' 
Stearns.  Oliver 
Stearns.  Sam 
Stearns,  Will 
Stickney.  Dan' 
Stickney.  David 
Stickney.  Jon" 
Stickney.  Will.  Estp 
Sticknev.  Will.  jr. 
TarhelK  W'" 
Tarbell.  W'".  jr. 
Tompson.  Will'" 
Toothaker.  Koger 
Totinan.  John 
Trull.  Sam' 
Trull.  Sam',  jr. 
AVaJker.  Saul' 
AVaters.  John 
White.  John 
^Vlnting•.  Sam',  [not 
Wilson"  Jolni 
AVilson.  Seth 
^V inning.  Alex' 
AV  inning.  John 
AV  right.  John 
^Vvman.  Amos 
P.ovinui c  Ta z. 
£1 
4 
10 
11          2 
3 
1  16     3  1 
1    6 
10 
1.-) 
3  ] 
1     4  11 
1    J    4  3 
1  15 
2    S    2  1 
T) 
11 
3  15   11 
'      3  106     9 
10 
2    3    s 
1    S 
<) 
1    5 
17   113   1 
5  15 
10 
11   2 
] 
1  l(i       2 
!)      s  2 
1 
10 
4 
3 
2 
2 
1  12 
10 
1  2 
■> 
10 
10   1 
<) 
2  10 
11 
•) 
2 
2  10   11   2 
4  153     01   2 
13 
1  2 
2  15     8  1 
()   19     2  3 
10 
Ki 
0  2 
2 
10 
10 
5  2 
2 
U) 
4  2 
2  14     4  1 
0)1  list]. 
1     1 
;; 
2  17     0 
1  i;j 
]0 
10 
5 
Kitclien  place,  near  railroad,  south- 
[east  of  North  liillerica. 
Some  of  these  lived  on  Long  Pond 
Koad  lieyond  Davis";  others  to- 
ward North  Billerica. 
Sjjaulding  pi.,  west  of  Long  Sti'eet. 
East  of   Bedfoi-d    Street,  near    Mr. 
[Cobb's  place. 
Near  iron  bridge,  west  side. 
Shawshln  District,  near  Burlington. 
Edmands  place.  Shawshin  Koad. 
West  part  of  town,  Simonds  place. 
< 'olson  ])lace,  North  F)ilieiica. 
Near  Fordway.  Xoi4h  Billeiica. 
Dea.  Greenwood's  place,  near  Con- 
[cord  Kiver  and  Bedford  line. 
Shawshin  District. 
Merriam  i)lac(>.  near  Bedford  line. 
AVest  of  Boston  Koad.  south[village.ofthe  
[village. 
AA'est  of  Boston  Koad.  south  of  the 
Pillsbury  place,  west  of  I^ong  St. 
Near    Irving    Fletcher's.  Shawshin 
[Koad. 
Tuft's  i)lace.  end  of  lane. 
Near  canal.  Nortli  Billerica. 
Wol)urn  Koad.  near  Shawsliin. 
Sheldon  place.  North  Billerica. 
East  Lexington  Koad.  near  Bedford. 
AVilson  place,  on  Boston  Street. 
South  of  C'harnstafte  Lane. 
Near  AVinning's  Poml. 
Putney  place.  Shawshin  Koad. 
Near  Bedfoi-d  and  Burlington. 
And  there  are  twenty-one  names  of  men  who  lived  in  Woburn.  Concord, 
Tewksburv.  Bedford,  and  Chelmsford. 
 - 275 - 
CHAPTER    XIV. 
EDUCATION. 
The  founders  of  New  England  were  careful  and  prompt  to  pro- 
vide for  the  education  of  all  the  children.  As  early  as  1642  a  law 
was  enacted,  enjoining  the  selectmen  to  ''have  a  vigilant  e_ye  over 
their  brethren  and  neighbors,  to  see  first  that  none  of  them  shall 
sutler  so  much  barbarism  in  any  of  their  families  as  not  to  endeavor 
to  teach,  bv  themselves  or  others,  their  children  and  apprentices  so 
much  learning  as  may  cnalde  them  perfectly  to  read  the  English 
tongue."  The  penalty  was  twenty  shillings  for  each  neglect.  The 
same  act  required  Ihat  parents  "  give  religious  instruction  to  their 
children  and  a})prentices,  aud  bring  them  up  in  some  honest,  lawful 
calling,  labor,  or  employment,  either  in  husbandrj'  or  some  other 
trade  profitable  for  themselves  and  the  commonwealth,  if  they  will 
not  or  can  not  train  them  up  in  learning  to  fit  them  for  higher 
em[)lovments."  In  1G47  a  free  school  was  made  '^ompulsory.  If 
there  Avere  fifty  iDUseiiolders,  the  town  must  appoint  a  teacher,  and 
towns  of  one  hundred  householders  must  have  a  grannnar  school  of 
such  grade  that  youth  "  ma\'  be  fitted  for  the  luiiversity." 
Billcrica  could  not  at  once  meet  this  requirement.  But,  "  1,  ">,  
()1. 
The  Townsmen  doe  agree  y'  Lieftenent  Will  tfrench  and  Kalph  Hill, 
senior,  doe  take  care  and  [examine]  the  seurll  famelies  in  or  Towne, 
wlietlir  tliei-e  children  and  servants  are  Taught  in  the  precei)ts  of 
I'elidione,  in  reding  and  Lcrninge  there  Catechism."  How  this  duty 
was  discharged  is  suggested  in  the  record  by  the  selectmen  :  "10, 
".)'",  ()S.  they  apoint  y*"  next  seconday  to  go  y''  rounds  to  examine 
y"  teaching  of  children  &  youth,  acording  to  law."  If  we  could 
accompany  these  selectmen  on  that  annual  examination,  we  shoukl 
learn  somi'thiug  of  education  under  difficulties   :  and  might  gain 
respect  for  the  fathers,  with  ap[)reciatiou  of  the  fact  of  [)rogress 
in  two  centuries. 
 - 276 - 
EDUCATION.  253 
Mi;.  Whiting's  name  first  appears  in  this  record,  "19  March, 
'74-5.  In  reference  to  the  catechising  of  y*"  youth  of  y*'  towne  and 
examining  tliem  concerning  tlieir  reading,  a  duty  imposed  on  y'^ 
select'"  by  y^  Hon"^  Court,  to  take  care  that  cliildren  and  youth  be 
instructed  in  both.  The  selectmen  doe  order,  that  all  children  and 
youth,  single  psons  from  eight  years  old  upward,  their  pareuce  and 
masters  shall  send  such  their  children  and  servants  to  y^  Reverend 
Mr.  Samuel  Whiting,  at  such  times  as  shalbee  afterward  appointed 
by  him,  to  be  examined  of  both,  as  hoping  this  might  I)e  a  good 
expedient  for  y^  encouragement  of  all  superiours  and  youth." 
We  ma}'  jvell  believe  that  such  an  examination,  by  the  pastor, 
would  be  no  small  incentive  to  study  on  the  part  of  the  '"youth" 
who  must  appear  before  him.  But  many  of  the  parents  could  give 
but  little  instruction,  and  another  step  in  advance  greatly  needed 
was  taken  when,  "19,  11'",  79,  P^ns.  Tompson  Avas  chosen  school- 
master, to  
teach  such  to  read  and  to  write  as  shall  come  to  him  to 
learn."  Joseph  Tompson,  Billerica's  first  school-master,  was  the  son 
of  a  minister,  and,  with  the  possible  exception  of  Dauforth,  was  the 
best  educated  man  in  town.  He  continued  to  be  the  school-master 
for  more  than  thirt}'  3-ears.  Of  the  studies  pursued  we  are  not 
informed,  nor  of  the  "times  and  seasons";  but  the  culture  of  the 
town  owes  much,  ^ve  may  be  sure,  to  Ensign  Tompson's  school,  and 
we  may  remember  with  interest  the  place  to  wdiich  the  children  of 
two  hundred  years  ago  wended  their  way  for  the  instruction  he  had 
to  give  them.  His  house  w'as  in  the  southeast  part  of  the  A-illage, 
at  the  end  of  the  lane  where  now  INlr.  Tufts  lives.  Whether  the 
services  of  Mr.  Tompson  w^ere  gratuitous  or  he  had  a  tuition  fee 
does  not  appear  ;  but  no  item  is  found  among  the  town  charges  until 
1710,  when  he  received  one  pound  as  school-master,  and  another  the 
next  year. 
About  the  same  time  the  question  of  a  new^  school-master  was 
raised.  V/e  ma}'  hope  that  the  reason  was  not  because  Captain 
Tompson  found  occasion  in  his  age  to  charge  something  for  his 
services.  Perhaps  after  thirty  years  his  methods  had  become  too 
old-fashioned,  and  a  younger  man  was  called  for.  In  the  autuum 
of  1709,  one  object  of  a  town  meeting  was  "to  incoridg  a  schoole- 
master  for  Reading  and  Writing"  ;  and,  judging  from  the  records 
of  Mr.  Needham,  the  new  town  clerk,  there  was  need  of  a  new 
school-master.  But  four  years  later  a  master  was  still  needed,  and, 
November  IG,  1713,  "it  was  voted,  that  the  selectmen  shaill  mak 
 - 277 - 
254  nisToijv  OK  ni[,LEin('.\. 
3011.S  of  tlu'ir  l)e.st  clescrastiou  in  proxidiug  a  .scoiiU-nuister  for  a 
quarter  of  a  yearo"  :  ami,  Janiuu y  18,  the  selectmen  were  instructed 
"to  se  out  for  a  schoolinaster  against  March  Court,  and  to  provide  a 
house."  Towns  wei'e  frequently  complained  of  for  neglect  to  provide 
good  schools,  and  the  last  record  implies  that  Billerica  had  been  thus 
charged,  as  it  had  been  at  least  once  before,  in  1G92,  "for  want  of 
a  scliole."  Probably  Mr.  Tompson's  labors  were  occasionally  sus- 
pended and  resumed.  The  same  presentment  was  made  in  1718, 
and  answered  by  Captain  ^^'hiting,  at  C'harlestown. 
The  first  apj)earance  of  a  successor  to  Mr.  Tomi)son  is  in  1715, 
when  IVIr.  Shattuck  is  p:iid  i'S,  los.,  and  the  t<nvn  voted,  that  he 
"shall  keep  the  school  another  half-year."  Jn  171G,  IMr.  Isaac 
Branch  was  employed,  receiving  €10  for  two  quarters  and  £22  for 
the  year  1717.  Tlie  gei'm  of  the  system  of  school  districts  then 
appears  :  "The  Town  Impowered  the  selectmen  to  order  &  appoint 
in  what  parts  of  the  town  the  school  shall  be  kept  &  how  long  at  a 
l)lace."  In  November,  1718,  the  town  votes  "to  hire  our  present 
schoolmaster  for  another  <|uarter,  Provided  he  move  to  the  several 
Quarters  of  the  town"  ;  also,  ''to  give  but  four  shillings  p.  week  for 
the  schoolmaster's  board  for  the  future."  This  master  was  John 
Graham,  and  he  boarded  with  Mr.  Ruggles.  December  29,  1718,  it 
was  voted,  that  "for  about  five  months  the  school  should  be  moved 
to  accommodate  the  outscirts  of  the  Town,  and  the  Kest  of  the  year 
to  be  kept  in  the  middle  of  the  town"  ;  and  a  committee  of  five  was 
to  order  the  places  where  it  should  l)e  kept.  It  was  also  voted  "to 
give  Mr.  Grimes,  our  present  schoolmaster,  forty  pounds  for  one 
year,  Provided  that  he  board  himself  and  keep  a  moving  school." 
In  March,  the  selectmen  gave  leave  to  John  Hartwell's  wife  "to 
keep  a  school  to  Instruct  children  to  Read."  Mr.  Josejih  Houston 
was  master  for  three  or  four  years  from  1719,  and  was  succeeded  by 
Benjamin  Ruggles,  the  pastor's  brother.  Then  for  a  short  time  the 
Tnaster  was  Jonathan  Fry,  of  Andover,  the  ill-fated  young  chaplain 
of  Lovewell's  expedition.  The  next  ^ear  the  town  i)aid  Mr.  William 
Smith  for  services,  and  also  Nicholas  Bowes,  the  future  i)astor  of 
Bedford.  Then  comes  Mr.  Isaac  Abbott,  who  was  master  for  six 
years,  who  was  also  em[)loyed  to  copy  the  early  A'olume  of  records 
of  "■Births,  Marriages,  and  Deaths,"  in  a  new  book.  Benjamin 
Bowers  follows,  17.'lG-39;  Jonathan  Stedman.  1739;  Joseph  Man- 
ning, 1740;  Robert  Cutler,  17-11-45,  who  found  his  wife  here,  and 
became  i)astor  in  Epping,  New  Hampshire  ;    and  John  Chandler,  in 
 - 278 - 
EDUCATION.  255 
174G,  who  was  thus  intro(hicr(l  to  his  future  pastorate  here.  Joseph 
Beau  succeeded,  aud  then  came  Jouathau  Kidder,  iu  1753,  who 
served  tlie  town  for  a  geueratiou.  and  whose  fame  lingers  still  among 
the  traditions  of  our  older  peo[)le. 
A  record,  May,  1722,  tells  us  something  of  the  early  methods  : 
"It  was  agreed  that  Mr.  Houston  shall  make  up  three  months  in  the 
seenter  of  the  town,  aud  then  shall  go  one  uiontli  among  the  Hunts." 
And,  in  June,  "it  was  agreed  that  Mr.  Houston  shall  have  liberty 
for  a  month  or  two,  if  he  Pleas,  after  his  uionth  is  out  at  Mr.  Hunt's  ; 
and  then  at  his  Return  shall  go  one  month  to  the  west  side  of  Concord 
River;  and  then  uext  one  month  to  .John  Stearns;  the  next  one 
month  to  Jonathan  Bacon's  ;  then  at  Mr.  Walker's  three  weeks  ;  then 
next  at  the  Kittridge's  one  month  ;  then  three  weeks  at  Dr.  Tooth- 
aker's  ;  then  to  be  three  months  in  the  seenter  of  the  Town,  which 
will  compleat  his  3ear." 
The  sections  of  the  town  where  schools  were  kept  were  at  first 
and  long  called  squadrons  ;  and  a  di\'ision  of  the  school  money  to 
the  squadrons  began  to  be  made  about  1760,  with  attending  questions 
and  jealousy  as  to  the  division.  A  school-house  is  mentioned  in 
17(56,  but  had  perhaps  l)een  built  earlier;  as  the  town  in  1725  voted 
grants  of  land  to  the  squadrons  for  school-houses,  to  l)e  located  by 
the  selectmen.  In  1742  a  committee  reported,  that  the  school  be 
kept  six  months  in  the  centre  of  the  town,  two  in  the  east  scpiadron, 
(one  of  which  should  be  east  of  the  river,)  two  on  the  west  side, 
and  one  in  the  south  squadron.  In  1782  another  report  is  found. 
The  centre  squadron  was  to  extend  a  mile  and  a  half,  and  a  gram- 
mar school  was  to  be  supported  there,  the  out  squadrons  drawing  an 
equal  amount,  to  be  expended  ''in  keeping  good  writing  schools." 
The  houses  which  were  to  form  the  line  of  the  centre  scjuadron,  on 
the  various  roads,  are  designated:  "on  Wilmington  road,  Jonas 
French's  new  house  ;  on  the  Frenchs'  road,  the  house  of  Jacob 
French  ;  on  Boston  road,  the  house  of  Oliver  C'rosljy  ;  on  Bedford 
road,  the  house  of  Teter  Hill  ;  on  the  road  to  Fitch's  mill,  the  house 
of  John  Blanchard  ;  on  the  road  over  middle  bridge,  John  Carleton, 
Jr.  ;  on  Chelmsford  road,  the  house  of  W".  Laws  ;  on  the  road  to 
Carleton's  mills,  Josiah  Danforth's  ;  on  the  road  to  Tewksbnry,  by 
French's  dam,  Benj.  Davis."  There  were  to  be  two  squadrons  on 
the  west  side,  to  be  divided  as  the  inhabitants  there  pleased.  The 
east  squadron  was  to  include  all  north  of  John  Patten,  Jun.'s,  and 
William  Tarbell's,  aud  east  of  the  Long  Pond  Road  ;    
the  Shawshin 
 - 279 - 
25(>  HISTOKV    OF    lULLEUICA. 
squadron  "to  begin  at  Samuel  Dauforth's  and  take  in  Thomas  Rich- 
ardson, widow  Hosley,  Joseph  Jones,  &  Ehenezer  Richardson,  Jr., 
on  the  Boston  road,  and  lObenezer  Richardson  &  Josiah  Richardson 
on  the  east  road,"  with  all  on  the  east  on  Shawshin  River  except 
,Iohn  Skelton  and  Amos  Wvman  ;  the  southeast  squadron  included 
"all  south  of  the  widow  Farmer's  and  Hezekiah  Crosby's,  that  live 
between  Boston  road  &  Bedford  road,"  except  Timothy  Jaquith  and 
Isaac  Manning,  wlio,  "a  little  oti"  from  Bedford  road,"  were  in  the 
south  squadron. 
But  the  scjuadron  school-houses  were  still  wanting,  and,  ITiH, 
September  12,  a  committee  on  tlie  location  of  such  houses  made 
report.  It  recommended,  that  in  the  centre  ward  the  house  be  set 
"in  Stephen  Parker's  corner,  at  the  Avest  end  of  the  meeting  house," 
22X22,  at  a  cost  of  £50  ;  the  north  ward  house  to  be  set  in  William 
Rogers'  corner  by  John  Rogers,  16Xl')i  to  cost  £20  ;  the  east  ward 
house,  location  left  blank,  18 Xl^.  to  cost  £22  :  the  Shawshin  waril 
house  to  be  set  at  the  corner  of  Lieut.  John  Farmer's  and  Ebenezer 
Richardson,  Jr.'s,  land,  ICXIO,  to  cost  £20;  the  southerly  ward 
house  to  be  set  in  Simon  and  Joseph  Blanchard's  land,  "half  way 
between  the  roads,  on  an  allowance  for  school  traA^el,"  14X1^^  to 
cost  £18  ;  the  south  ward  house  to  be  set  at  the  head  of  Job  Hill's 
lane,  16X16,  to  cost  £20;  the  south  ward,  over  Concord  River,  to 
be  set  at  the  end  of  Shed's  lane,  so  called,  16X16,  to  cost  £20  ;  the 
north  ward,  over  Concord  River,  to  l)e  set,  not  agreed  where,  cost 
£20.  Wards  which  chose  not  to  build  might  draw  the  interest  of 
the  sum  allowed  to  said  ward  to  hire  places  to  keep  their  school  ; 
but  the  latter  privilege  was  not  to  extend  beyond  two  years  ;  and 
the  committee  Avas  to  settle  dis})utes  as  to  locations  not  yet  decided 
on.  Most  of  these  sites  are  nearly  the  same  with  those  still  in  use. 
The  house  at  the  centre  w\as  also  used  later  as  an  academy  ;  then 
became  a  store  and  post  olHce  ;  was  burned  in  1873  ;  and  rebuilt  by 
Mr.  More}'  for  the  same  use.  When  the  district  syst^Mn  of  schools 
displaced  the  earlier  squadrons  is  not  clear  ;  but  for  two  generations 
districts  had  charge  of  their  own  schools,  locating  and  supporting  as 
they  pleased.  But  within  a  few  years  the  town  has  rcassunied  the 
entire  charge,  seeking  more  harmonious  and  etlicieut  management. 
The  employment  of  school  "dames"  is  mentioned  as  early  as 
1680,  and  in  March,  1718,  John  Ilartwell's  wife  had  leave  "to  keep 
a  school  to  Instruct  children  to  Read"  ;  but  it  is  not  clear  to  what 
extent  females  were  thus  emplo3ed,  and  it  is  only  within  a  few  years 
 - 280 - 
 - 281 - 
HOWE    SCHOOL 
 - 282 - 
EDUCATION.  257 
timt  most  of  the  schools  have  passed  into  their  hands.  Before  the 
Revohition,  onl3'  English  text-books  were  to  he  had,  which  were 
sonicthues  reprinted,  but  always  costl}'  and  ill-adapted  to  use  in  this 
country.  After  that,  improvement,  sure  if  not  rapid,  was  made, 
and  has  contributed  much  to  the  usefulness  of  the  schools. 
It  was  a  notable  da}'  in  the  history  of  Billerica,  when  Mr.  Pem- 
berton,  who  had  been  for  eight  ^ears  the  first  principal  of  Phillips 
Aeadeui}',  at  Andover,  came  from  that  position  -to  Billerica,  and 
established  a  school  here,  which  is  properly  known  as  the  Pemberton 
Academy.  He  was  one  of  the  notable  teachers  of  his  time,  and 
counted  such  men  as  James  Madison  and  Aaion  Burr  among  his 
pupils.  His  school  here  was  on  the  west  side  of  Long  Street,  at  the 
place  where  the  late  Dr.  Pillsbury  lived,  and  is  described  as  a  one- 
stor}-  building,  which  received  additions  as  more  room  Avas  needed, 
until  "  its  length  became  a  marked  feature."  Here  he  conducted  a 
school  for  fourteen  years,  which  was  higlily  successful,  numbering  at 
times  sixty  pupils,  many  of  whom  graduated  at  Harvard  College 
aud  became  eminent.  At  first  a  training-school  for  boys,  its  scope 
was  enlarged  and  girls  were  i-eceived  ;  and  Deacon  Samuel  Whiting 
assisted  in  tlie  instiaiction.  It  would  l)e  interesting  if  we  had  a 
catalogue,  and  knew  more  of  this  eai'ly  academy. 
After  an  intei-val  of  some  3'ears,  a  private  scliool  was  estaljlished 
b}'  Mr.  Bernard  "Whitman  and  his  sister  Bathsheba,  their  brother 
being  the  colleague  pastor  of  the  church.  It  was  kept  in  a  hall  of 
the  old  hotel.  But,  in  1820,  the  Billerica  Academy  was  estalilished, 
and  Mr.  and  Miss  "Whitman  assumed  the  charge  of  it.  The  Trustees 
of  this  academy  w^ere  Josiah  Crosby,  Esq.,  Samuel  Whiting,  Esq., 
Joseph  Locke,  Esq.,  Rev.  Nathaniel  Whitman,  Francis  Faulkner, 
Esq.,  Col.  J.  B.  Richardson,  Dr.  Zadok  Howe,  Rev.  Samuel  Stearns,' 
Rev.  Jacob  Coggiu,  Edward  St.L.  Livermore,  Rev.  Samuel  Sewall, 
George  Bruce,  Cyrus  Baldwin,  William  Bland,  Jr.,  Esq.,  Dr.  A.  R. 
Thompson.  Others  afterward  chosen  were  Hon.  Timoth}-  AValker, 
John  Baldwin,  Esq.,  Marshall  Preston,  P^sq.,  Capt.  Francis  Richard- 
son, Rev.  Bernard  Whitman,  Rev.  Hezekiah  Packard,  Rev.  William 
Barry,  Dr.  Thaddeus  Brown. 
This  academy  building  stood  south  of  the  Unitarian  Church,  and 
was  probably  identical  with  the  earlier  school-house,  on  the  same 
spot,  Avhich  is  mentioned  above.  The  school  was  good  and  useful, 
but  it  lacked  the  pecuniary  foundation  needful  for  permanence,  and 
its  career  closed  in  183G.     From  that   time,  until    1852,  the   only 
 - 283 - 
258  HISTOTiY    OF   BILLERICA. 
opportunit}'  for  higher  instruction  in  the  town  was  a  private  school, 
which  was  taught  for  some  3'ears  by  Reverend  Mr.  Stearns,  in  the 
vestry-  of  the  Congregational  Church,  of  which  ho  was  the  pastor. 
Dr.  Howe,  knowing  tlic  value  of  such  a  school  and  instructed 
by  the  failure  of  the  Acadeni}',  a  few  years  later  set  about  a  more 
substantial  foundation  ;  and  the  results  of  his  benevolent  plans 
remain,  and  must  long  endure,  in  the  Howe  School.  The  design 
had  occui^ied  his  thoughts  before  his  death,  and  the  lot  was  selected 
and  piu'chased  by  himself.  J^y  his  will,  a  Board  of  Trustees,  to  be 
incorporated,  received  the  bulk  of  his  estate,  and  were  charged  with 
the  duty  of  carrying  his  plans  into  execution.  The  first  Trustees 
were  John  Baldwin,  James  R.  Faulkner,  Dudley  Foster,  William  H. 
Odiorne,  Marshall  Preston,  Amos  Spanlding,  and  George  II.  Whit- 
man ;  
of  whom  onl}'  Mr.  Foster  is  still  a  member  of  the  Board. 
Others,  who  have  been  appointed  to  fill  vacancies  by  the  Judge  of 
Probate,  are  Thomas  Talbot,  John  A.  Buttrick,  Gardner  Parker, 
Luther  W.  Faulkner,  Henry  A.  Hazen,  Moses  G.  Parker,  and  Peter 
B.  Bohonan.  The  building  was  erected  in  1852,  and  dedicated  with 
an  address  by  Mr.  Whitman,  who  remained  until  1875,  the  diligent 
and  faithful  secretar}'  of  the  Trustees.  Valuable  details  of  the  his- 
tory may  lie  found  in  that  address,  which  has  Iteen  published. 
The  School  was  opened  at  once  under  the  charge  of  Mr.  William 
C.  Grant.  He  was  succeeded,  in  1855,  by  Mr.  Stephen  Gilman, 
and,  in  1864,  by  Mr.  Francis  Gorman.  The  present  principal,  Mr. 
Samuel  Tucker,  assumed  his  charge  in  1868.  Tuition  was  free  at 
the  beginning,  but  in  recent  years  the  income  of  the  fund,  somewhat 
more  than  $20,000,  has  not  been  sufficient  alone  for  the  support  of 
the  School,  and  a  small  tuition  fee  has  been  charged  ;  it  is  now  four 
dollars  per  term,  with  three  terms  in  each  year.  The  Catalogue, 
published  in  1880,  enrolls  the  names  of  838  pupils,  of  whom,  since 
1868,  there  have  been  66  graduates.  Pupils  are  received  on  exami- 
nation from  the  common  schools  of  the  town,  and  from  other  towns 
on  the  same  terms.  The  generous  endowment  of  Dr.  Howe  is  now 
less  adequate  than  at  first  to  the  needs  of  the  School,  and  should 
receive  some  increase  from  the  town,  or  from  private  munificence,  in 
order  to  meet  the  larger  requironents  of  instruction  and  equipment, 
which  the  lapse  of  thirt}'  3'ears  and  the  demands  of  recent  progress 
have  laid  upon  it. 
This  record  of  schools  in  Billerica  has  also  a  recent  addition. 
Early  in  187'J,  Professor  M.  C.  Mitchell,  a  graduate  of  Waterville 
 - 284 - 
 - 285 - 
 - 286 - 
EDUCATION.  259 
College,  now  Colb^'  University,  in  18G2,  who  had  for  some  years  had 
a  private  Boys'  School,  at  Edgartown,  Massachusetts,  removed  with 
his  school  to  this  town.  After  brief  locations,  on  Boston  Street  and 
on  Andover  Street,  he  purchased  tlie  large  and  handsome  building 
which  had  replaced  the  old  hotel,  burned  in  187G,  on  the  south  corner 
of  Andover  and  Main  Streets,  which  was  occupied  in  May,  1880. 
It  is  designed  as  a  home  school  for  bo3's,  the  numl>er  of  pupils  being 
limited  to  twent^'-four,  and  the  charge,  including  all  expenses,  being 
$400  per  3'ear.  The  school  is  prosperous,  and  we  give  a  good  view 
of  its  buildings. 
 - 287 - 
CHAPTER    XY. 
IIELIGIOUS    HISTORY.    CONTINUED. 
TriE  dismission  of  Mr.  Chandler  left  the  church  for  the  first  time 
without  a  pastor  ;  and  the  devout  fathers  set  apart  a  day  of  fasting 
and  prayer,  17G0,  October  2,  "to  supplicate  the  throne  of  grace 
for  divine  direction  in  the  choice  of  a  minister."  Tlie  ministers  of 
Littleton,  Tewksbury,  Wilmington,  and  Woburn  were  invited  to  assist 
in  the  pnl)lic  services.  Sixteen  ministers  were  paid  for  preaching 
during  the  two  3-ears  ensuing.  Samuel  Angier  was  employed  twent}' 
Sabbaths  ;  Edward  Sparhawk.  ten  ;  Edward  Brooks,  twelve  ;  Job 
Whitney,  Natlianiel  Noyes,  and  Mr.  Frj-e,  eight  each  ;  William 
Whitwell,  seven,  and  Benjamin  Caryl,  four.  Tlie  latter  received 
a  call  to  settle,  which  was  not  accepted.  At  length  a  town  meeting 
was  held,  17G2,  November  18,  and  this  is  the  record:  "The  dnn'ch 
of  Christ  in  this  town  having  at  their  meeting  on  the  25  Day  of 
Aug\ist,  17(30,  Voted  to  give  up  their  Right  and  Priviledge  of  Choos- 
ing a  
Gospel  minister  by  themselves,  and  to  act  in  conjunction  with 
the  Town  in  this  Important  affair  ;  and  the  Church  and  Town  Having 
mett  together  upon  this  occation,  *  and  the  meeting  being  opened 
b}'  a  prayer  to  god  for  his  Gracious  Influen(>e,  guidance,  &  Direction, 
The  Question  was  put  whethei'  we  would  proceed  at  tliis  Time  To  the 
Choice  of  a  Gentleman  to  settle  with  us  in  the  work  of  the  Gospel 
ministry,  and  it  was  voted  in  tlie  affirmative.  Then  the  members 
of  the  Church  &  the  Inhabitants  of  the  Town  were  desired  by  the 
Moderator  to  Bring  in  their  vot^s  conjunct!}',  in  order  to  the  choosing 
such  a  minister,  which  being  done  and  the  votes  examined,  it  appeared 
that  Mr.  Henry  Cumings  was  chosen  by  all  the  votes.  Then  the 
Town  voted  to  the  said  Mr.  Henry  Cumings,  as  an  Incouragement 
to  settle  with  us,  for  his  settlement  Two  Hundred  Pounds  LawfuU 
money,  one  Huntli-ed  to  be  paid"  at  the  time  of  his  ordination,  and 
 - 288 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORY.  261 
the  remainder  a  year  later.  His  salaiy  was  to  be  £80,  paid  annually, 
and  he  was  to  have  the  use  of  the  "  Parsonage  pasture."  The  ques- 
tion of  acting  on  "the  article  of  wood"  passed  "in  the  negative," 
and  mhiistcrs  have  since  been  permitted  to  furnish  their  own  wood. 
In  paying  Dr.  Cumings  the.  promised  "settlement,"  the  town  appro- 
priated £73,  17.9.,  llfL,  which  had  been  received  from  the  State  for 
the  care  of  the  French  neutrals.  The  ordination  took  place,  17G3, 
January  26.  "Seven  chui'ches  came  to  the  solenmitN'.  The  Rev''. 
Mr.  Morrill,  of  AVilmington,  began  with  praj'er  ;  Rev*^.  Mr.  Emerson, 
of  Hollis,  preached  the  sermon,  from  Heb.  xiii:17;  the  Rev*^.  Mr. 
Rogers,  of  Littleton,. gave  the  charge,  &  tlu;  Rev''.  Mr.  Bridge,  of 
Chelmsford,  the  Right  Hand  of  Fellowship,  &  y"  Rev^.  Mr.  Emerson, 
of  Peperil,  made  y"  last  prayer."  » 
The  record  of  JMr.  Cumings'  l)irth  and  famil}-  is  given  elsewhere. 
He  was  a  young  man  when  he  assumed  his  important  and  lifelong 
charge,  having  graduated  from  Harvard  College  just  before  he  was 
twenty-one  years  of  age,  and  spent  onlv  two  3-ears  in  teaching,  at 
Reading,  where  he  found  his  wife,  and  in  the  stud.y  of  theolog}-  with 
his  pastor,  Rev.  Daniel  Emerson,  of  Hollis.  Mr.  Emerson  was  a 
man  of  character  and  spiritual  force,  and  of  power  as  a  preacher, 
and  man}'  young  men  went  from  Hollis  under  his  influence  to  take 
high  positions  in  the  pulpit  and  at  the  bar.  He  had  been  in  ardent 
sympathy  with  the  Great  Awakening  and  the  labors  of  Edwards  and 
Whitefield,  and  Mr.  Cumings  brought  the  tonic  of  this  training  to 
his  ministry  in  lUllcrica.  He  brought  also  a  line  physical  manhood, 
a  culture  and  a  piety,  which  gave  him  good  equipment  for  his  office  ; 
and  for  almost  two  generations  he  led  his  people,  a  good  example  of 
the  oldtime  pastor,  holding  their  respect  and  love  Avith  a  rare  force 
to  the  end.  As  to  the  manner  of  man  lie  was,  1  am  al)le  to  gi^^e 
some  authentic  and  interesting  reminiscences,  furnished  by  his  grand- 
daughter, Miss  Nancy  Wilkins,  whose  privilege  it  was  to  be  with  him 
twenty  years  in  the  later  part  of  his  life,  and  who,  after  illustrating 
in  her  own  person  a  most  serenes  and  charming  old  age,  has  but 
recently  been  called  aAvay  by  death.     (She  says,  — 
••The  earliest  recollections  of  mj^  revered  grandfather  are  of  a  [(leasing- 
natun>,  although  they  insjtired  my  3'(Hjthfiil  heart  with  awe.  H(?  was  six 
feet  and  upwards  in  height,  tiucly  pioportioiied,  with  silvery,  flowing  locks 
and  a  pleasant  smile.  JIc  would  be  called  a  perfect  Christian  gentleuian, 
ill  whom  was  no  guile,  and  \^'as  noted  for  his  hosjjitality  to  all.  He  was  a 
powerful  man.  both  mentally  and  physically,  anil  was  considered  a  tine 
Hebrew  scholar,  liaving  btieu  taught  while  in  college  by  a  J(.'W,  who  took 
 - 289 - 
262  HISTORY   OF   BILLERICA. 
uuweaiicd  pains  with  a  siiiall  class  to  pei-fect  them  in  the  language  he 
loved,  and  took  great  pride  in  their  success.  He  was  well  versed  in  Latin 
and  Greek.  From  the  latter  I  have  heai-d  him  quote  largely;  particularly 
from  a  speech  of  President  Holyoke.  In  prayer  time  some  of  tht;  students 
had  whistled  and  scraped.  After  prayers,  my  grandfather  said,  he  never 
heard  sucli  a  powerful  address  as  he  made  to  them  in  Greek;  it  i-ame  like 
a  thunder-clap,  and  the  offence  was  never  repeated.  1  have  often  heard 
him  repeat  this  speech,  and  his  memory  was  very  uncommon.  He  would 
repeat  the  tirst  hook  of  Paradise  Lost  without  hesitation.  He  fitted  seveial 
for  college  in  his  younger  days,  and,  later,  instructed  some  theological 
students.  He  was  uniforndy  kind,  but  in  those  days  any  approadi  to 
familiarity  would  have  been  considered  highly  improi)er  ;  and,  as  he  seldom 
spoke  of  hiuiself,  I  knew  but  little  of  his  history.  His  mother  was  a  woman 
of  uncommon  energj^,  and  very  devout.  Dr.  Ciunings  owed  much,  in  his 
own  opinion,  to  her  influence.  Mr.  Emerson,  his  pastor,  befriended  hiui, 
fitted  hini  for  college,  and  helped  him  through.  The  Sabbath  was  kept  very 
strictly.  None  could  visit  or  leave  his  house  on  that  day,  or  stay  at  home 
to  piovide  food.  To  me  it  was  always  a  pleasant  daj\  I  had  my  Bible 
and  Pilgrim's  Progress,  and  I  longed  to  find  and  enter  through  that  wicket 
gate,  for  it  was  all  real  to  me.  1  never  knew  one  who  had  a  more  vivid 
sense  of  an  overruling  providence.  His  wives'  family  was  of  English 
descent,  all  Episcopalians,  and  their  grandfather  kept  slaves.  He  often 
spoke  of  his  first  wife  and  always  with  deep  emotion,  and  she  must  have 
been  a  most  lovely  Christian  woman.  In  memory  of  her  and  of  his  blessed 
Saviour,  he  used  to  trim  his  rooms  with  evergreen  on  Christmas  Eve,  and 
for  this  purpose  would  go  far  to  get  the  doulile  spruce  which  he  thought 
the  most  beautiful.  He  was  a  man  of  strong  passions  and  (^uick  temper, 
but  had  learned  the  lesson  of  self-control.  In  his  younger  days  he  used 
tobacco  freely,  but,  when  convinced  that  it  was  injurious,  he  abandoned  it ; 
but  he  said  it  was  like  cutting  oft"  a  right  arm. 
"Once  a  year  he  visited  all  the  schools,  in  order  to  catechise  the  chil- 
dren, using  the  Assembly's  Catechism,  The  Commandments  and  Creed, 
portions  of  The  Bible,  and  Hynms.  It  was  a  very  interesting  day  to  the 
children.  My  grandfather  took  great  pleasure  in  cultivating  his  garden, 
and  was  veiy  fond  of  flowers,  having  a  fine  assortment  for  those  times. 
He  gave  me  a  flower-bed  and  taught  me  to  cultivate  it.  He  often  brought 
us  wild  flowers  and  herbs,  and  seemed  to  know  their  properties;  as  well 
as  all  the  birds  of  the  air  and  all  their  peculiai-  habits." 
I'liis  picture,  outliucd  by  one  who  knew  and  loved  him,  sjiows 
very  elesul}-  some  of  the  elements  ol"  his  power  as  a  minister.  He 
was  a  diligent  student,  wrought  out  his  sermons  with  great  eare,  and 
preached  them  with  effect.  Then  he  was  a  man  of  the  people.  He 
had  known  in  his  own  early  experience  what  poverty  and  trial  were, 
and  was  prepared  to  sympathize  with  the  trials  through  which  the 
people  were  passing.  The  testimony  is  abundant  how  heartily  he 
shared  in  the  patriotic  discussions  and  actions  which  bore  fruit  in  the 
 - 290 - 
 - 291 - 
J 
 - 292 - 
EELIGIOUS   HISTORY,                                   263 
independence  of  the  States  and  establishment  of  the  Union.  He 
was  a  leader  in  the  patriot  councils,  and  the  action  of  the  town  was 
often  shaped  by  him.  His-  election  as  a  delegate  to  the  Convention 
which  framed  the  Constitution  of  Massachusetts,  in  17S0,  was  only 
the  proper  and  natural  recognitioji  of  his  standing  among  his  towns- 
men. He  was  often  called  on  councils,  far  and  near,  and  to  preach 
on  public  occasions,  in  a  wa}'  to  show  that  his  merits  were  appreciated 
beyond  the  bounds  of  his  rural  parish.  But  if  he  was  ever  called, 
in  the  modern  fashion,  to  leave  his  chosen  field,  the  temptation  did 
not  move  him,  and  he  was  content  to  live  and  to  die  among  the 
people,  who  gave  him  in  youth  unauimonsl}-  their  confidence  and 
love,  and  continued  it  to  the  end. 
A  new  and  more  commodious  meeting-house  was  found  necessary 
and  was  erected  in  17'J7.  It  stood  near,  but  a  little  southeast  of,  its 
present  [)osition,  facing  the  north.  By  some  accident  the  first  steeple 
fell,  and  the  builder  received  $500.00  compensation  from  the  town. 
The  cost  of  this  house  was  provided  for  by  sale  of  the  pews,  which 
took  i)lacc,  I7;)7,  December  8,  as  follows,  the  sum  received  being 
$8504.50:  — 
SALE    OF    PEWS. 
(> 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
Price. 
On  till-  lower  floor : 
CMpt.  John  Wiiming        fl21..50 
l.ieut.  .John  Kidder^  121.50 
Dr.  Wm.  Wilkinsand  Mr. 
Isaac  Wilkins  IIG.OO 
Ens.  Sanuiel  Parker  120.25 
Capt.  Josiah  Bowers  161.00 
Dr.  Williaui  Bowers  164.00 
ParsoiKUje. 
Jonathan  Bowers.  Esq.  181.50 
Dea.  Wm.  Touipson  1;{;J.50 
Dea.  Joshua  Abbot  152.00 
Mr.  Luther  French  116.25 
Mr.  Jeremiah  Bhuichard  115.00 
Lieut.  Peter  Hill 
Mr.  Jona.  Pollard  and 
Mr.  Thomas  Kogors 
Mr.  Benjamin  Bovvers 
Mr.  Samuel  Kichardson, 
Jr.  and  Mr.  John  Kieh- 
ards(in 
jVIr.  Z(^bediah  llooers.  h". 
Widow  Elizabeth  Hill" 
Mr.  WilUam  llog-ci-s 
Mr.  Jolm  Soley 
Mr.  Jose])h  Danfoith  and 
Mr.  John  Patten,  jr.       121.25 
126.50 
124.00 
102.50 
94.00 
122.75 
114.50 
124.00 
114.00 
No.  Price. 
22  Lt.  Sti-])hen  Barrett  and 
Mr.  Joel  Baldwin  $128.75 
23  Mr.  Joseph  Jaciuith  125.,50 
24  ('apt.  Solomon  Pollard  114.00 
25  Mr.  William  Patten  117.00 
26  Lt.  Jeremiah  Allen  and 
Mr.  Joseph  Ivendal  123.00 
27  Mr.  John  Bromlield  116.00 
28  Lt.  Xehemiah  Kittredge  114.75 
29  Ml'.  Isaac  French  and  Mr. 
Abel  Bowman  67.00 
30  Mr.  Jaiues  Abbot  84.00 
31  Mr.  Jacob  Manning  72.75 
32  Capt.  Stei)hen  Parker  80.00 
33  Maj.  John  Parker  116.00 
34  3Ii-'.  Josiah  Elchardscm  116.00 
35  Lt.  Jerennali  Crosby  and 
Mr.  Jolm  Bacon  123.25 
3(i  Lt.  Isaac  liaron  120.75 
37  Mr.  Samuel  Bowers  125.50 
38  ]Mr.  Nathan  Abbot  120.25 
39  Mr.  Samuel  Whiting  115.50 
40  Ml-.  Zaeelieus  Shed  115.00 
41  Dea.  Oliver  Crosby  120.50 
42  John  >Vhite,  Esq.  113.50 
43  Mr.  Josiah  Crosby  131.50 
44  Mr.  Josepli  Blanehard  115.25 
 - 293 - 
264                          HISTORY    or   BILLERICA. 
No.  .  Tricp. 
45    Mr.  Ebnzr.  Richardson,  .^115.50 
4G     iVIr.  Josiah  lioj^ers  Qjr.      120.00 
47  jNlr.  Silas  KiL'liardsou  and 
Mr.Ste]>Iicn  IJicliardsoii  J  
10.50 
48  Mr.  Jolm  IJoovrs  IIH.OO 
49  Mr.  licnjaiiiin  Dows  and 
Mr.  AVilliaiii  F'rost  128.00 
50  Mr.  Asa  Patten  and  JNIr. 
Oliver  Uicliardson  110.00 
51  Mr.  Jonas  Beard  and  Mi'. 
AVilliani  Gleason  115.75 
52  Mr.  John  Crosby  and  Mr 
53  Lt.Ei)hrahnSears   Crosby,  .ji"-       114.25 
Cook  and  Mr. 
Edward  Farmer,  jr.         120.25 
54  Edward  Farmer,  Esq.  antl 
Edwai-d  Farmer  3d  110.00 
55  Mr.  Isaac  Bhxnehard  124.00 
56  Mr.  John  Patten  125.00 
57  Isaac  Stearns,  p:s(i.  115.00 
58  Lieut.  Isaac  Marshall  115.75 
59  Lieut.  Jacob  Richardson  123.50 
60  Lt.  Thomas  Richardson 
and  Lt.  Wm.  Baldwin    120.25 
61  Lieut.  John  Farmer  lO.'J.OO 
62  Mr.  Benjamin  Davis  116.50 
In  the  Gallery  : 
1  Mr.  Benjamin  Bowers         32.25 
2  Mr.  Xathan  :Mears  33.00 
3  Mr.  Seth  Crosby,  jr.  and 
Lt.  NehemiahKittredge  52.25 
No. 
4 
S 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
10 
17 
IS 
19 
20 
23 
24 
25 
20 
Mr.  John  Carlton,  jr.  and 
Mr.  Amos  Carlton  $48.50 
M«"-  Benjamin  Beard,  jr. 
h  part,  and  Mr.  Francis 
(/ook,  J 
Mr.  AVm.  Levistone  and 
Mr.  Tliomas  Mears 
Mr.  AA'm.  Tarbel,  jr.  and 
Mr.  'riiomas  Crage 
Mr.  Timothy  Davis 
Mr.  Jonathan  Bond 
Lt.  Jeremiah  Crosb}'  and 
Mr.  Jolm  Bae<m 
Mr.  Timothy  Foster 
Mr.  Elijah  'Frull 
Mr.  John  Bromfteld 
Mr.  Joseph  Dows 
Jonathan  Bowers.  Esq. 
Mr.  William  Hill 
Mr.  Josej)h  Jaiiuith,  jr. 
Capt.  Stephen  Parker 
Mr.  Jei)tha  ]\I  aiming 
Lt.  Thos.  Richardson  and 
Lt.  William  Baldwin 
Lt.  Timothy  Stearns 
Mr.  Oliver  Faimer,  jr.  and 
Mr.  Josepli  Wilson,  sr. 
Mr.  Jonatha)!  Hill 
Ml'.  John  l^ain 
Lt.  Timothy  Stearns 
J\rr.  Asa  I'atten  and  IMr. 
Oliver  Richardson 
53.00 
57.00 
40.75 
44.50 
41.75 
70.25 
43.25 
54.25 
52.00 
69.75 
31.25 
40.00 
30.50 
32.00 
31.25 
71.00 
41.00 
70.00 
70.50 
53.25 
62.75 
40.50 
The  churcU  continued  unitcil  and  prosperous  during  tlie  long 
pastorate  of  Dr.  Cumings.  A  just  estimate  of  his  theological  atti- 
tude, in  
relation  to  the  questions  'on  which  the  separation  among  the 
churches  about  the  time  of  his  death  took  p]a(ie,  is  not  eas}'  to  reach. 
Some  facts,  however,  will  assist  in  such  an  estimate.  A  pupil  of 
Mr.  Emerson,  of  llollis,  would  not  fail  to  hold  the  views  then  and 
after  described  by  the  term  "•  (^'angelical,"  unless  he  departed  from 
the  position  of  his  teacher;  and  that  Dr.  Cumings  ever  did  so  there 
is  lack  of  evidence.  On  the  contrary,  the  testimony  of  Ins  grand- 
daughter, who  sat  at  his  feet  during  the  last  years  of  his  life,  is  that 
he  "held  fast"  the  evangelical  doctrines  to  the  end.  His  published 
sermons  confirm  this  statement  ;  and  it  might  be  illustrated  from  his 
unpublished  sermons  to  ahnost  any  extent.  I  give  extracts  from 
two  sermons,  which  show  his  general  tone  of  thought  and  discussion. 
The  text  of  the  first  is  Hebrews,  v  : 9   ;  and  speaking  of  the  benefit 
procured  for  us  by  Jesus  Christ,  he  says:  "liy  this  is  meant  our 
deliverance  from  sin  and  all  its  penal  effects,  a  deliverance  from  guilt 
 - 294 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORY.  265 
and  condemnation,  from  wrath  to  come  and  the  eternal  punishments 
of  another  world.  *  It  is  owing  to  the  interposition  of  divine  grace, 
that  we  have  not  before  now  been  made  extremely  miserable.  *  This 
grace  we  owe,  and  it  is  dispensed  to  us  through  the  mediation  of, 
Jesus  C'luist.  *  Christ  hath  procured  eternal  salvation  for  us  by  the 
merit  of  His  own  obedience,  suffering,  and  death,  whercb}'  he  has 
procured  eternal  redem[)tion  for  ns,  not  only  deliverance  from  y" 
wrath  and  curse  of  God,  but  eternal  life  and  happiness.  When  uum 
had  Ijy  sin  mined  and  undone  iiimself,  Christ  was  contented  t(^  be 
made  a  sacritice  for  him  and  to  bear  his  sins  in  His  own  body  on 
the  tree." 
The  text  of  the  other  sermon  is  INIark,  xiii  : 33,  and  its  ''Doctrine, 
that  a  consideration  of  the  uncertainty  of  the  Time  when  our  Lord 
will  call  us  to  Judgment  ouglit  to  put  us  upon  using  the  greatest  care 
and  Diligence,  by  PraAcr  and  the  most  circumspect  walk  and  con- 
versation, that  we  ma}'  be  in  a  constant  preparation  to  meet  Dim." 
Some  of  the  points  made  in  the  treatment  of  it  are  as  follows  :  ''■We 
are  in  this  world  in  a  state  of  Tr^'al  or  Prol)ation.  *  Christ  comes  to 
every  Indi^'idual  at  death.  The  Scrii)tures  teach  that  as  soon  as  the 
soul  leaves  the  Body,  it  appears  before  God  and  is  sentenced  to  a 
State  of  Happiness  or  Miser}'.  So  that  the  Day  of  Death  is  a 
Period  as  interesting  to  every  one  as  the  Day  of  general  Judgment  ; 
for  the  same  Sentence  that  is  passed  upon  every  one  at  Death  will 
be  openly  and  solemnly  ratified  at  the  general  Assize  of  the  World. 
Death  puts  an  everlasting  Period  to  our  prol»ationary  state."  After 
these  and  other  preliminar}*  statements,  the  preacher  outlines  what 
the  vigilant  man  will  do  ;  and  tuider  the  fifth  head  uses  this  language  : 
"The  Vigilant  Man,  as  he  is  put  upon  watching  by  a  consideration 
of  the  Certainty  of  a  Judgment  to  come  and  the  Uncertainty  of  the 
Time  Avlien  it  will  come  ;  so,  in  order  to  maintain  his  Vigilancy,  he 
will  lVe(]uently  represent  to  his  Mind  the  Solemnity  of  a  future 
Judgment.  And  I  know  of  nothing  that  would  tend  more  to  make 
men  watchful  and  kee[)  them  so,  than  often  to  reflect  u[)on  the 
solemnityes  of  that  great  Day,  when  we  must  all  give  Account  of 
oiuselves  to  God,  which  Day  will  certainly  come  though  we  know  not 
the  Time  of  it.  A  consideration  that  there  is  a  Day  ap[)roaching 
when  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  will  descend  from  Heaven,  with  his 
mighty  Angels,  in  awful  Power  and  Magnificence,  to  Juilge  the 
World,  and  tlmt  He  will  then  raise  the  dead  and  sunnnon  the  whole 
human  Race  from  Adam  to  the  latest  of  his  Posti-ritv  before    his 
 - 295 - 
266  HISTORY  or  billeeica. 
glorious  Tribunal,  and,  separating  the  righteous  from  the  wicked, 
will,  after  graciously  inviting  the  former  to  his  heavenly  Mansions, 
pronounce  that  awful  sentence  against  the  latter,  '  
Depart,  ye  cursed, 
into  everlasting  tire,  prepared  for  the  devil  and  his  angels.'  *  It  will 
l)e  a  joyful  or  a  terrible  Da}'  to  us,  according  to  our  present  Behav- 
ior." The  duty  of  prayer  is  then  considered,  under  several  heads  ; 
and  the  sermon  closes  with  fervent  and  solemn  appeals  to  his  hearers. 
This  latti'r  sermon'  was  first  preached,  177;"),  February  12;  was 
])rca(lu'd  eight  tiuu'S  elsewhere,  and  repeated  four  times  in  his  own 
jmlpit,  the  last  time  in  1<S10.  It  rellects  the  unchanged  tenor  of  his 
late  as  well  ;is  his  early  i)reaching.  A  characteristic  tendency  of 
Dr.  Cumings'  preaching  is  to  limit  his  statements  of  the  doctrines 
of  the  trinity,  of  sin,  of  redemption  and  retribution,  to  the  language 
of  the  Scri[)tures,  seldom  interpreting  them  in  phraseology  of  his 
own.  His  sympathies  were  with  the  Arminian,  rather  than  with  the 
high-Cahinistic  o[)iuions  of  his  time  ;  but  when  his  colleague  was 
ordained,  in  1814,  it  was  understood  by  the  council  that  he  held 
evangelical  opinions.  Mr.  Stearns,  of  Bedford,  concurred  in  it  for 
that  reason  ;  a  fact  confirmed  on  the  trial  of  Mv.  Stearns,  twenty 
years  later,  by  INIr.  Whitman's  own  testimony,  that  the  suspension 
of  exchanges  between  himself  and  Mr.  Stearns  was  not  due  to  an^' 
change  in  Mr.  Stearns'  opinions."  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  to  he 
remembered,  that  the  church  with  substantial  unanimity  accepted 
the  views  of  the  "liberal"  party,  under  the  lead  of  Mr.  Whitman, 
and  that  Dr.  Cumings'  influence,  negative  if  not  positive,  must  have 
contributed  to  this  result.  He  is  named  with  Unitarian  ministers  in 
the  histories  of  the  period  ;  and  whether  any  injustice  is  done  to 
him  in  this  classification  is  a  question  on  which  opinions  will  differ. 
In  February,  1813,  Dr.  Cumings  preached  his  Half-Century 
Sermon.  On  account  of  his  age  and  infirmit}',  he  requested  a 
colleague,  and  the  church  at  once  took  measures  which  resulted  in 
the  ordination  of  INIr.  Nathaniel  Whitman,  on  the  fifty-first  anni- 
versary of  
the  day  when  Dr.  Cumings  had  been  himself  ordained, 
1814,  January  26.  The  life  of  Dr.  Cumings  was  spared  for  almost  ten 
years  longer,  and  his  pastorate  extended  to  nearly  sixty-one  years, 
his  death  occurring,  1823,  Septemlier  6.  From  ordination  to  death 
his  pastorate  was  about  eleven  years  longer  than  that  of  Mr.  Whiting, 
1  This  sermon  may  be  found  among  the  mss.  collections  of  the  Congregational  Library 
in  Boston. 
2  Congregational  Quarterbj.     Vol.  X,  p.  270. 
 - 296 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORY.  267 
but  in  this  comparison  it  should  be  remembered  that  Mr.  Whiting 
labored  here  five  years  before  the  church  was  organized,  and  the 
actual  ditference  in  the  length  of  their  ministry  is  only  six  years. 
To  the  last  Dr.  Cumings  held  the  respect  and  love  of  the  people, 
and,  wlien  the  end  came,  he  was  buried  by  the  town  with  reverent 
affection,  the  third  and  the  last  pastor  to  whom  the  town  has  rendered 
this  service. 
]\Ir.  Whitman  brought  high  character,  scholarshii),  and  piet3-  to 
his  new  position.  It  should  )te  added  to  the  record  elsewhere  given, 
that  he  was  two  years  an  usher  at  Phillips  Academy,  Exeter,  and 
there  began  the  study  of  theology  with  Dr.  Buckminster,  of  Ports- 
mouth, completing  his  course  at  Cambridge.  He  was  received  with 
grcMit  cordiality  and  considerate  kindness  b}'  his  venera))le  colleague, 
and  a  warm  friendship  grew  up  between  them.  His  ordination  was 
attended  by  a  multitude  of  people,  and  the  hospitality  of  the  town 
was  full  and  generous.  The  sermon  was  preached  by  the  Rev.  James 
Flint,  of  East  Bridgewater  ;  the  Rev.  Samuel  Stearns,  of  Bedford, 
gave  the  Right  Hand,  and  Dr.  Cumings  the  Charge,  which  were 
pul)lished.  Mr.  Whitman  was  a  good  preacher  and  active  pastor. 
He  established  a  Bible  Societ}"  and  a  Peace  Society,  as  well  as  the 
first  Sunday'  School  in  town,  and  he  used  his  influence  effectivel}'  in 
improving  the  common  schools.  His  pastorate,  however,  fell  u[)on 
a  period  of  agitation  and  disruption  among  the  churches,  when 
influences  which  had  been  gathering  force,  some  of  them  for  a 
hundred  years,  came  to  a  head  ;  and  it  is  scarcely  any  fault  of  this 
worthy  man  that  they  culminated  in  his  day  and  disturbed  the  peace 
of  his  ministry.  The  discussions  which  preceded  and  attended  the 
separation  of  the  Unitarian  churches  were  not  the  onl3'  and  scarcely 
the  most  sei'ious  of  the  influences  which  threatened  the  peace  of  the 
local  pastors.  The  practical  union  of  Church  and  State,  which  had 
been  naturally  inherited  from  p]ngland,  and  illustrated  in  all  our 
previous  histor}-,  as  the  constable  gathered  the  pastor's  salarv,  was 
out  of  place  in  the  free  air  of  America.  AVith  independence  the 
demand  for  a  change  grew  stronger  and  stronger  ;  but  it  involved  so 
serious  considerations  and  was  so  startling  to  good  but  conser\'ative 
men,  that  the  resistance  was  long,  and  num^'  pastors  were  unsettled 
in  the  process.  The  age  of  Dr.  Cumings  and  the  honoi-  in  which 
he  was  held  delayed  its  coming  in  Billerica,  and  the  town  collected 
the  salary  of  Mr.  Wliitman  until  ISS-l.  In  that  year  the  usual 
article  in  the  warrant  was  "passed"  by  the  town  and  was  not  again 
 - 297 - 
268  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
inserted.  Tlie  pni'isli  wiis  then  eulled  to  meet,  and  raised  somewhat 
less  tlian  tlie  salary,  $700,  which  Mr.  Whitman  had  received.  He 
remained  a  year  longei',  and,  in  1835,  resigned  and  removed  to 
Wilton.  New  Hampshire. 
It  may  be  doubted  whether  tlic  doctrinal  discussions  and  ecclesi- 
astical separations  had  as  much  to  do  with  terminating-  Mr.  Whitman's 
pastorate  ;  Ijut  tliey  form  a  vital  part  of  the  historj'  of  that  i)ciiod. 
Here,  too,  Dr.  Cuinings'  position,  while  he  lived,  held  the  restless 
s[)ii'it  somewhat  in  check  which  broke  forth  so  soon  after.  The 
questions  concerning  the  trinity,  and  the  divinity  of  Christ,  the 
nature  and  results  of  sin,  and  the  wa}'  of  salvation,  were  discussed 
Avith  great  feeling  and  often  with  bitterness.  Good  men  sometimes 
forgot  the  possible  honesty  of  those  who  held  opinions  differing 
from  their  own  and  the  charity  to  which  they  were  entitled,  and 
neigiibors  were  at  times  estranged.  The  friends  of  the  old  order 
could  not  appreciate  the  force  of  the  convictions  which  sougiit 
change,  and  those  who  were  striving  for  change  were  not  always 
considerate  of  the  feelings  or  the  reasons  of  those  who  wished  to 
])er[)etuate  the  order  of  things  they  had  inherited,  and  which  had 
worked  so  satisfactorily  for  almost  two  centuries.  The  efforts  to 
I'stablish  another  church  in  the  town  were  met  by  a  protest,  which 
Mr.  Whitman  emliodied  in  a  fast-day  sermon,  which  was  printed, 
and  nuist  win  respect  and  sympathy  for  its  author  even  from  those 
who  are  not  fully  jjcrsuaded  by  its  argument.  He  was  contending 
with  the  inevitable  ;  and,  had  he  now  the  opportunity,  he  would 
not  probai)ly  desire  to  replace  the  ecclesiastical  order,  which  was 
giving  way  around  him,  to  his  discomfort  and  alarm. 
Among  the  complaints  which  were  made  against  Mr.  Whitman, 
one  was  that  he  would  not  exchange  with  neighboring  Universalist 
ministers  ;  and  in  his  farewell  sermon  he  defended  the  propriety  of 
his  course,  expressing  his  willingness  to  exchange  with  ministers 
who  were  in  sympath}-  with  the  covenant  of  his  church,  and  quoting 
from  that  covenant  language  which  those  who  approved  the  doctrine 
oi  non-retribution  could  not  accept.  This  covenant  affirmed  their 
faith,''  "particularly  in  the  great  doctrines  of  our  Fall  in  Adam  and 
recovery  by  Jesus  Christ,  of  the  pardon  of  sin,  and  salvation  on 
condition  of  Faith  and  Repentance,  and  of  the  intlucnce  and  aid  of 
Hivine  Grace,  i)romised  to  those  who  ask;    *    of  the  Kesurrection 
■■' I  am  iiukbtt.-d  to  Mr.  F.  i".  Hill  for  a  ivis.  skelcli  of  3Ir.  Wliitiiiau,  from  vvhiih  I  have 
drawn  fret'ly. 
 - 298 - 
 - 299 - 
 - 300 - 
RELTOIOUS    HISTORY.  2G9 
of  the  dead,  a  final  Judgment,  and  of  a  future  state  of  Retribu- 
tions." Ministers  whose  preaeliiug  was  in  direct  opposition  to  this 
covenant  he  could  not  consistently  permit  to  oecu[)v  his  pul|)it. 
Mr.  Whitman  was  dismissed,  ISSo,  March  80,  and  was  succeeded 
by  Rev.  AVilliam  E.  Ai)bot,  who  was  ordained,  ltS37,  Februaiy  S, 
and  dismissed,  1839,  February  10.  Mr.  Abbot  was  graduatt'(l  at 
Bowdoin  College,  1830,  and  at  Harvard  Theological  School,  in  18;>3. 
The  next  pastor  was  Rev.  Theodore  Haskell  Dorr,  a  gi'aduatc  of 
Harvard  College,  in  1835,  and  Theological  School,  in  1838.  He  was 
ordained,  1839,  Maj*  28,  and  dismissed,  1843,  May  28.  Succeeding 
ministers  have  with  one  exception  received  no  formal  installation. 
Their  names  and  dates  of  service  are  as  follows:  .Tames  Thurston, 
1844,  November  15-18.')0,  May  lo.  Samuel  Fettes,  1850,  June  16- 
1855,  May  14.  Nathaniel  O.  Chaffin,  1855,  June  17-1857,  May  10. 
Norwood  Damon,  1857-60.  Livingston  Stone,  1861-62.  James 
Gallaway,  installed,  1863,  January  28-1865.  Christopher  Coffin 
Husse}-,  1866,  October  1,  who  is  still  in  charge. 
In  1844  the  meeting-house  Avas  moved,  and  turned  half  around 
to  face  the  cast  ;  but  it  was  allowed  to  retain  its  primitive  structure 
and  graceful  spire,  which  form  a  landmark  visible  from  afar.  TIk; 
longer  ministry  of  My.  Hussey  has  witnessed  improvement  in  several 
directions.  In  1879  a  fund  of  810,000  was  contributed  l^v  several 
members  of  the  society,  the  interest  of  whicli  only  can  be  used  to 
support  preaching.  The  conditions  of  the  gift  are  that  the  minister's 
salary  be  kept  at  a  specified  rate,  and  tiuit  the  preaching  l)e  distinet- 
ivel}-  Unitarian.  In  1881  a  house  was  bought  for  a  parsonage,  and 
so  fully  repaired  as  to  make  it  substantially  a  now,  as  well  as  pleasant 
and  convenient,  home  for  the  minister.  It  stands  on  tlie  east  side 
of  the  street,  one  door  north  of  Andover  Street,  having  been  the 
home  of  Mr.  W.  H.  Blanchard  and  previously  of  Marshall  Preston. 
The  First  Baptist  Ciiuucii  was  the  earliest  separate  organiza- 
tion, after  the  First  Church  had  for  one  hundred  and  sixty-five  years 
existed  alone  in  the  town.  There  were  Baptists  here  at  an  earl}-  dav, 
William  Hamlet  at  least  and  probabl}-  George  Farley  ;  and  a  letter 
from  Hamlet  relating  to  the  early  troubles  is  published  )>y  Backus, 
the  Baptist  historian.  But  the  nnm])er  did  not  increase  until  after 
the  Revolution,  when  the  tendency'  to  resist  pa^aiient  of  "niinister's 
rates"  had  influence  in  increasing  the  number  of  Bai^tists.  Not  long 
after  the  death  of  Dr.  Cumings,  they  had  become  numerous  and 
strong  enough  for  organization.     Meetings  were  first   held   in   the 
 - 301 - 
270  HISTOKY    OF    BILLERICA. 
school-house  near  the  Fordwa.y,  in  the  spring  of  1S28.  A  elun-ch 
was  organized,  1828,  September  oO,  and  recognized  by  Council, 
October  D.  It  consisted  of  twenty  members,  of  whom  thirteen  were 
dismissed  from  the  South  Chelmsford  Church.  Tlie  first  deacons 
were  Joseph  Dows  and  Amos  S[)aulding.  Their  successors  have 
been  Edward  Spaulding,  George  C.  Oilman,  John  C.  Hobbs,  and 
Francis  E.  Manlc}'. 
The  list  of  its  ministers  is  as  follows,  omitting  students  and  others 
who  served  for  shorter  periods  : — 
Otis  Wing.  1829.  Marcli,  to  18;W.  Marvh. 
Jedodiali  W.  Sargent,  ordained,  1835,  January  14,  to  1837,  January. 
Jonatlian  K.  Forbush.  1837.  Marcli -1S38.  August. 
Warren  Cooper,  1838,  October-  1830,  0('tobev\ 
George  \V.  Tfandall,  ordained,  1841,  February  18-1842,  May. 
Benjamin  Kniglit.  1842,  May-1840,  April;   and  1857,  Feb.-18G0.  Jan. 
Benjamin  Putnam,  1845,  June;   died,  1850.  December  21.  aged  G2. 
Zenas  P.  AVilde.  1851,  April-1853,  April. 
Homer  Sears,  1854,  January-1850,  Ja^uar3^ 
Thomas  C.  Russell,  18G0,  August- 18G3,  March. 
John  D.  Sweet,  ordained,  18G3,  October  21 -18GS,  March. 
Clifton  Fletcher,  18G9,  February -1875.  July. 
William  II.  Fish,  ordained,  1875,  December  30-1877,  June. 
Robert  M.  Neil,  (alias  O'Neil  or  JMcNeil),  1877^  October-1878.  July.    '-Dis- 
missed from  the  fellowship  of  the  ehurcli  and  ministry.'' 
Edward  T.  Lyford,  1879,  May. 
The  first  meeting-honse  stood  on  the  east  side  of  Concord  River, 
very  near  the  middle  bridge.  The  frame  was  raised,  1830,  Novem- 
ber 80,  and  the  house  was  dedicated,  1831,  September  14.  It  was 
fifty  feet  long,  forty  feet  wide,  had  forty-eight  pews,  and  would  seat 
three  linndred  people.  In  the  spring  of  1844  it  was  remo\'ed  to  its 
present  location  in  the  village,  on  Bedford  Street.  A  bell  was  i)ro- 
cured  in  1872,  and  in  1877  it  received  an  addition  of  a  couvenient 
chapel,  as  appears  in  the  illustration.^ 
Thk  Congregational  Chttkcii  was  organized,  1829,  April  30,  a 
society  having  been  formed,  January  17.  This  was  a  more  direct 
result  of  the  theological  controversy,  and  of  the  ecclesiastical  sepa- 
rations, which  were  still  .agitating  the  IMassachusetts  chin-ches  ;  and 
the  presence  of  Dr.  L3nian  Beecher,  as  Modei'ator  of  the  Council 
which  organized  the    clnnrh,  was   a   significant   expression   of  the 
*  A  ffemi-Centennial  Address,  by  Rev.  Clifton  FIctclnM-.  lui.s  been  publislied,  giving  lull 
and  intcre.sting  details  of  the  history  of  this  ciiurcli. 
 - 302 - 
 - 303 - 
('<)N<;i!K(;a  rioNAi.  (  iii  i!<ii. 
 - 304 - 
RELIGIOUS    HISTORY.  271 
general  interest  in  this  and  similar  movements.  The  unity  and 
strength  of  the  First  Church  was,  howeA^er,  less  affected  l)y  the 
separation,  in  Billerica,  than  in  man}'  towns.  The  number  of  its 
meml)ers  who  did  not  sympathize  with,  or  yield  to,  the  Unitarian 
position  of  the  church  was  dmall.  Two  women,  Huldah  Blake  and 
Martha  Bowers,  entered  a  protest,  1820,  October  8.  They  affirm 
their  belief  in  the  true  and  proper  deit}-  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  the 
atonement,  in  the  entire  depravity'  of  unregencrate  men,  and  their 
need  of  supernatural  grace  to  fit  them  for  the  happiness  of  heaven  ; 
and  generall}'  in  the  doctrines  of  the  Westminster  Confession  and 
Catechism.  With  these  views  they  believed  their  pastor  and  many 
of  their  brethren  in  the  church  did  not  agree  ;  and  they  therefore 
asked  the  favor  of  a  regular  dismission.  This  the  church,  affirming 
the  right  and  dut}-  of  each  individual  to  be  guided  ))y  his  own  con- 
science, granted.  No  other  dismissions  for  this  reason  are  recorded, 
and  not  more  than  four  or  five  members  of  the  First  Church  ever 
joined  the  new  Congregational  Church,  which  began  with  twenty-five 
members.  The  meeting-house,  on  Andover  Street,  60X40  feet,  was 
raised,  October  28,  and  dedicated,  1830,  January  13.  The  record 
of  its  ministers  has  been  as  follows  : — 
John  Starkweather,  ordained,  1S30,  April  22;   dismissed,  1831,  August  2. 
Isaac  Jones,  acting  pastor,  1832,  July- 1834,  April. 
Joseph  Haven,  installed,  1830.  June  8;   dismissed.  1840,  September  27. 
Benjamin  Ela,  ordained,  1841,  April  29;   dismissed.  1842,  May. 
Jesse  G.  D.  Stearns,  ordained,  1843,  May  29;   dismissed,  18G7,  May  8. 
John  P.  Clcaveland,  d.'d.,  acting  pastor.  18G7-70. 
Evarts  B.  Kent,  acting  pastor.  1870-71. 
John  M.  Lord,  acting  pastor,  1871-72. 
Henry  A.  Hazen,  installed,  1874,  May  21  ;   
disnnssed,  1879.  Maj-  4. 
John  Haskell,  acting  pastor,  1879.  May- 1881.  October. 
Charles  C.  Torre j',  acting  pastor.  1881.  Novend)er. 
The  long  and  faithful  pastorate  of  Mr.  Stearns  deserves  especial 
recognition.  Record  of  his  descent  from  Billerica  ancestr}'  may 
be  found  elsewhere,  (see  Stearns,  8).  A  scholar  of  exceptional 
diligence  and  culture,  modest  and  devout,  and  active  in  every  good 
word  and  work,  he  commended  himself  to  tlie  citizens  of  the  town 
as  well  as  to  his  own  charge.  As  teacher  of  a  useful  private  school, 
and  superintendent  of  the  schools  of  the  town,  he  excited  no  little 
influence,  and  represented  the  town  in  the  Legislature. 
The  deacons  of  this  church  have  been  William  Gleason,  Aaron 
Patten,  Edward  Wright,  Samuel  H.  King,  and  Moses  P.  Greenwood. 
 - 305 - 
272  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
A  Univkusalist  Sociktv  was  foiiiied,  1842,  Jauuarv  10,  an<l  a 
meeting-hoiisf  erected  the  same  year.  It  stood  on  tlie  north  side 
of  West  Street,  where  the  sehool-house  now  stands.  In  1S68  it  was 
sold  to  the  Roman  Catholi(;s  and  removed  to  North  Billeriea,  where 
it  is  still  in  use  1»3'  
that  society.  TIk;  ministers  ol'  this  church  Avere 
Rev.  Varnum  Lincoln,  ordained,  1843,  Septeml)er  8;  Rev.  L.  P. 
Landers,  of  West  Cambridge,  1845-47;  Rev.  George  Proctor, 
1847-53,  and  again,  1855-G3  ;  Rev.  P.  ITersey,  1853-55  ;  and  Rev. 
R.  M.  Byram. 
A  Roman  Catiiolio  Society  was  organized  and  innchased  the 
LTniversalist  Church  in  1868.  It  has  prospered  and  the  number  of 
its  communicants  is  large.  The  priests  who  have  been  in  charge 
come  from  Lowell,  and  no  record  of  their  names  or  dates  of  service 
has  been  furnished. 
The  3'oungest  church  in  the  town  is  the  Baptist  Chui'cli.  at  Noi'th 
Billeriea,  which  was  organized,  1869,  Maj-  14,  receiving  twenty-two 
members  from  the  Centre  Church.  Its  pleasant  inceting-house  was 
a  gift  from  the  Hon.  Thomas  Talbot;  Iniilt  in  187U,  and  dedicated, 
1871,  January  19.  Its  pastors  have  been  AVilliam  M.  Ross,  1869, 
June  2  ;  Nathaniel  L.  Colby,  ordained,  1872,  July  2;  and  William 
A.  Farren,  ordained,  1879,  September  24. 
 - 306 - 
jJAFTisT  <  nritcii.   Noinii   killehica. 
 - 307 - 
 - 308 - 
CHAPTER   XYI. 
CANAL,  TURNPIKE,  AND    KAILTIOADS. 
The  earl}'  roads  were  often  called  paths,  and  the  name  describes 
them.  Carts  conld  pass  over  the  better  roads,  but  many  were  pass- 
able onl}'  on  horseback  or  on  foot.  Wagons  were  unknown.  The 
earliest  chaise  was  owned  in  town  not  much,  if  an}-,  before  1800,  and 
marked  the  aristocracy  of  the  few  who  could  aftbrd  such  luxury.  ^ 
The  first  great  improvement  in  the  means  of  transportation  was  the 
Middlesex  Canal.  This  first  important  canal  in  America  passed 
through  Billei'ica,  and  its  path  is  still  to  be  seen  at  many  points. 
The  company  was  incorporated  in  June,  1793,  to  connect  the  Merri- 
mack witli  the  Mystic  and  Charles  rivers,  and  save  the  trade  of  New 
Hampshire  to  Boston.  The  i)reliminary  surveys  consumed  more 
than  a  year,  and  ground  was  first  broken  at  Billerica  "Mills"  in  the 
spring  of  1705.  At  this  point  the  Concord  River  is  one  hundred 
and  nine  feet  al»ove  tide-water  in  Boston  Harbor  and  twenty-live  feet 
above  the  Merrimack,  which  the  canal  reached  at  its  most  southerly 
l)end,  about  a  mile  above  Pawtucket  Falls.  The  canal  was  27  miles 
long,  30  feet  wide,  and  3  feet  deep.  It  was  navigal)le  to  the  Charles 
River,  in  18(3.')   ;  but  its  income  was  absorbed  for  years  in  alterations 
and  repairs,  and  no  dividend  was  declared  until  181D.  One  hundred 
assessments  were  laid  upon  stockholders,  and  the  cost  of  shares, 
including  interest,  was  $1455.25  ;  the  total  cost  of  the  canal  being 
11,164.200.  From  1819  to  1843.  dividends  were  paid,  amounting 
to  $504  per  share.  The  receipts  then  fell  below  the  expenses  ;  in 
1851  the  charter  was  sun-endered,  and  in  1852  the  canal  was  sold  in 
sections,  owners  of  adjoining  lands  being  generally  the  purchasers. 
The  charter  was  farther  declai-ed  forfeited  in  1859.  The  proprietors 
com[)laiucd  that  the  railroad    had    been  permitted  to  damage  their 
■  Sl'C  Lowell  Contributions,  etc.    Vol.  1,  p.  liol. 
 - 309 - 
274  HISTORY    OF    BILLEKICA. 
chartered  rights  without  indenniity,  hut  they  had  uo  redress.  The 
chief  design  of  the  canal  wns  to  carr}'  freight,  bnt  a  packet-boat  for 
passengers  was  run  daily,  at  a  speed  of  four  miles  per  hour,  the  fare 
from  Lowell  to  Boston  l)eing  fifty  cents.  That  the  canal  did  not  very 
essentially  affect  the  life  of  the  town  is  shown  by  the  fact  that  nil  its 
carrying  from  Boston  to  Billerica  did  not  exceed  $200  per  year. 
The  Middlesex  Turnpike  was  an  enterprise  of  significance  in  its 
day.  It  was  cluirtcred  in  June,  \H0').  Ebenezer  Bridge  and  James 
Abbot  being  among  its  corporators.  Jts  route  ext<'nded  from  Tyngs- 
borough  to  Medford  and  Cambiidge.  The- line  at  first  was  to  |)ass 
Billerica  meeting-house;  but,  in  1S06,  the  route  was  changed,  by 
permission  of  the  General  Court,  from  a  point  in  Bedford,  crossing 
Nutting's  Pond,  to  Buisket  bridge  in  Tyngsborough.  Some  lack  of 
friendly  co-operation  in  Billerica  may  have  influenced  this  chnnge, 
and  the  managers  were  ambitious  to  make  their  great  road  as  near 
an  air-line  as  possible.  Hills  and  ponds  must  not  stand  in  their  way, 
and  the}'  according!}'  followed  a  route  straight  through  the  town, 
crossing  Concord  River  a  mile  above  the  centre  bridge,  and  leaving 
the  village  as  far  one  side.  This  line  would  attract  very  little  local 
traA'el  and  support,  and  experience  soon  proved  that  the  visions  of  a 
great  through  travel  and  traffic  were  delusive.  The  canal  and  the 
railroad  left  little  for  the  turnpike,  and  its  charter  was  repealed  in 
l.Sil.  The  unfortunate  proprietors  of  the  Middlesex  Turnpike  were 
not  without  some  very  sound  reasons  for  their  fjiith.  Those  were 
the  days  of  teams  and  stages,  and  the  business  which  they  brought 
through  this  town  was  a  notable  feature  of  its  life.  Much  of  the 
traffic  of  western  New  Hampshire  and  Vermont  with  vSalem  and 
Boston  passed  through  Billerica.  The  teaming  was  of  two  kinds. 
There  was  a  class  of  professional  teamsters,  who  drove  large  wagons, 
drawn  by  four,  six,  or  eight  horses,  serving  the  merchants  of  the  up- 
countr}'.  The  memory  of  some  of  these  men,  like  Thomas  Button, 
of  Hartford,  Vermont,  whose  team  always  rested  on  the  Sal)bath, 
still  lingers  along  the  route.  Wool,  butter,  cheese,  and  whatever 
sought  the  market  Avould  furnish  the  loads,  while  salt,  molasses,  dry 
goods,  rum,  and  all  the  varieties  kept  by  the  miscellaneous  '"country 
store"  were  taken  on  the  return.  Another  class  of  teams  i)roI)ably 
more  numerous,  Ihougii  smnllei',  was  driven  by  farmers,  who  took  a 
trip  or  two  yearh"  to  inai'ket,  carrying  their  own  produce,  beef,  [)ork, 
or  whatever  they  had  to  sell,  and  returning  with  articles  for  home 
consumption  or  for  the  merchants. 
 - 310 - 
CANAL,  TURNPIKE,   AND    RAILROADS.  275 
The  stages  also  entered  largely  into  the  life  of  that  period. 
"The  first  stage-coach  passed  through  Billerica  about  1795.  It  was 
a  two-horse,  covered  vehicle,  owned  and  driven  by  Mr.  Joseph 
Wheat,  and  ran  from  Amherst,  N.  H.,  to  Boston  and  back  again, 
once  a  week.  It  stopped  at  Billerica  OA^er  night,  making  the  trip 
in  about  four  days.  Tlie  same  team  performed  all  the  journey."^ 
The  business  increased.  In  1803  the  stage  from  Boston  to  Amherst 
set  off  from  King's  Inn  ever}'  Wednesday  and  Saturday,  leaving  at 
.T  A.M.  and  arriving  at  7  p.m.,  returning  Mondays  and  Thursdays 
at  the  same  hours.  For  several  3'ears  before  the  opening  of  the 
Boston  and  Lowell  Kaih'oad  from  twelve  to  sixteen  stages  passed 
daily  through  Billerica,  Sundays  excepted.  After  work  was  I)egnn 
on  the  new  mills  at  East  Chelmsford,  in  1821,  Mr.  Richardson,  who 
kej^t  a  hotel  at  the  "Corner,"  sent  a  hack  Mondays  and  Saturdays 
to  accommodate  gentlemen  who  wished  to  connect  with  the  Amherst 
stage  at  that  point.  Lowell  could  hardly  be  served  in  that  way  now  ! 
All  this  staging  and  teaming  made  a  demand  for  taverns,  which 
were  numerous  and  busy.  There  were  two,  and  sometimes  three, 
in  the  A'illage  :  one  or  two  at  the  Corner,  and  the  Manning  Tavern 
on  the  Chelmsford  Road  ;  and  these  were  not  all.  Men  and  beasts 
must  be  provided  for,  and  this  provision  often  suggests  Falstaff's 
"intolerable  deal  of  sack,"  as  one  reads  the  items  in  old  ledgers. 
But  canal  and  turnpike  gave  wa}'  to  a  moi-e  revolutionary  im- 
provement. The  Granite  Railwa}'  to  Quincj-  was  chartered  in  1.S26, 
and  did  its  first  work  in  1827  in  carrying  granite  for  Bunker  Hill 
Monument.  The  sagacious  men  who  were  laying  the  foundations 
of  Lowell  saw  that  the  railway  was  what  their  enterprise  needed, 
and  the  Boston  and  Lowell  Railroad  was  chartered  in  June,  1830. 
The  railroads  to  Worcester  and  Providence  were  chartered  soon  after, 
and  were  opened  to  Newton  in  April  and  to  Readville  in  June,  1834. 
A  year  later,  1835,  June  25,  the  Boston  and  Lowell  Railroad  was 
opened.     Two  days  after,  its  first  advertisement  appears,  as  follows  : 
•'The  Cars  will  continue  to  run  till  farther  notice  as  at  present,  viz.  : 
Leave  Lowell  at  (>  A.M.  &  2h  P.M.  Leave  Boston  at  9  A.M.  &  5^  P.M. 
No  huggage  can  be  taken,  except  what  belongs  to  passengers.  Allowance 
to  each,  40  pounds.  As  soon  as  Burthen  cars  can  be  provided,  notice  will 
be  given  tor  the  transi)ortation  of  merchandise.  Tickets  may  be  liad  at  tlie 
ilepot.  corner  Leverett  and  Brighton  streets.     Price,  .1$1.00. 
■•George  M.  Dextek,  Atfent." 
-  Bi- Centennial,  p.  152,  (note). 
 - 311 - 
276  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
Tlie  contrast  is  great  between  the  four  trains  of  1835  and  the 
tvvent3'-five  passenger  trains  of  1882,  with  almost  as  many  more  for 
freight.  Tlien  they  must  start  from  Lowell  ;  now  they  ma}'  come 
from  San  Francisco.  But  the  lienefit  which  the  raih-oad  brought  to 
Billerica  has  been  much  less  than  it  would  have  been  if  it  had 
followed  a  more  direct  line,  through  Wol)urn,  and  passing  between 
the  village  and  Fox  Hill.  Such  a  route  w^ould  have  made  the 
})h'asant,  high  lands  on  which  the  village  is  located  a  very  accessible 
and  attractive  sul)urb  of  Boston,  and  with  the  growth  of  both  Lowell 
and  Boston,  Billerica  might  have  shared.  But  some  feared  and 
repelled  the  railroad  ;  others,  more  sagacious,  saw  its  benefits  and 
sought  its  location  on  a  more  northerly  route  ;  and  the  growth  of 
the  A'illage  has  been  hindered  bj'  its  distance  from  the  stations. 
Relief  for  this  difliculty  has  been  sought  in  various  directions,  and 
once  it  seemed  to  be  secured  ;  in  fact  it  was  secured  for  a  few 
months,  until  a  hopeful  enterprise  ended  in  disastrous  failure.  The 
stcny  of  the  Billerica  and  Bedford  Narrow-Gauge  Railroad  is  not  a 
pleasant  one,  but  must  be  here  briefly  told. 
In  1875,  George  E.  Mansfield,  of  Boston,  came  to  Billerica  with 
plans  and  proposals  for  building  a  railroad,  of  a  two-foot  gauge, 
from  Bedford  to  North  Billerica.  A  road  of  fourteen  miles'  length 
in  Wales,  The  Festiniog,  had  shown  the  practicabilit}'  of  a  line  so 
narrow,  but  none  had  ever  been  built  in  this  country.  Discussion 
resulted  in  a  charter,  and  a  compan}'  was  organized,  187G,  May  10, 
Capt.  Charles  A.  Ranlett  being  its  president.  Subscriptions  and 
surveys  required  some  months,  and  gi-ound  was  broken,  with  much 
enthusiasm,  September  6.  The  construction  of  the  line  took  more 
than  a  3-ear,  and  it  was  opened  in  the  autumn  of  1877.  Its  equipment 
consisted  of  two  locomotives,  "Ariel"  and  "Puck,"  two  passenger 
cars,  two  "excursion"  cars,  and  a  few  others.  The  novelty  of  its 
narrow  track  and  cheap  construction  attracted  much  attention. 
People  came  to  see  its  working,  and  the  "Scientific  American" 
published,  1878,  INIarch  16,  an  article  describing  its  construction, 
witli  an  illustration  of  its  engines.  For  a  few  months  the  village 
enjoyed  railroad  facilities,  and  so  far  as  the  feasibility  of  the  working 
experiment  went,  the  road  was  a  success.  Its  failure  came  from 
financial  causes.  The  estimated  cost  was  $50,000,  or  $8000  per 
mile;  but,  in  the  "Scientific  American"  article,  its  projector  puts 
its  cost  when  completed  at  over  .$(;0.000.  On  the  other  hand,  a 
portion  of  its  sul)scription  proved  unsound  or  fraudulent  and  the  road 
 - 312 - 
CANAL,  TURNPIKE,  AND  RAILROADS.  277 
began  operations  luuler  a  heavy  burden  of  debt.  Starting  in  this 
unfortunate  condition,  and  liardly  at  the  outset  earning  its  running- 
expenses,  tlie  directors  were  unable  to  finish  its  connections  and 
equipment,  or,  b}'  patient  and  successful  running,  win  the  confidence 
of  the  public  and  test  the  (juestion,  in  which  some  of  them  never 
lost  faith,  whether  such  a  road  could  become  i)ecuniarily  profitable. 
Under  its  burden  of  debt,  the  road  was  thrown  into  bankruptc}'  and 
assignees  took  possession,  the  personal  property  being  sold,  1878, 
June  6,  for  $9000.  The  town,  which  had  subscribed  originally  and 
paid  $12,000,  was  urged  to  aid  farther,  but  declined  to  do  so;  and 
individuals  were  not  ready  to  undertake  the  financial  experiment. 
Meanwhile,  the  Sandy  River  Railroad,  in  Maine,  had  built  a  similar 
line,  north  from  P'armington.  This  company  purchased  the  equip- 
ments of  the  Billerica  and  Bedford  Railroad  ;  and  there  they  are 
still  in  use  with  more  success.  Time  is  rapidly  obliterating  the 
roadwa}'  through  the  town,  and  the  children  of  coming  generations 
may  listen  with  some  doubt  to  the  story,  that  their  fathers  did  once 
have  such  a  railroad  and  regular  trains  running  from  Billei-ica  to 
Bedford  ;  and  that  merry  school-children  went  shouting  on  excursions 
over  the  route.  That  such  was  the  fact  the  historian  can  testify, 
with  emotions  in  which  amusement,  chagrin,  and  regret  are  mingled. 
 - 313 - 
CHAPTER  XVIT. 
MILLS.  —  MANUFACTURES. 
In  1659,  November,  William  Sheldon  received  the  grant  of  a  lot 
on  condition  of  l)nilding  a  mill,  to  grind  corn,  within  two  years,  (see 
under  Sheldon)  .  This  grant  was  declared  forfeit,  and  John  Parker 
received  "the  mill  lot,"  1(363-64,  January  25,  with  an  eight-acre 
right,  for  £55,  paid  for  the  town.  ^  The  house-lot  was  to  be  neai' 
the  great  bridge.  No  condition  of  building  a  mill  is  connected  with 
the  grant,  and  it  is  doubtful  if  there  was  any  mill  at  North  Billerica 
before  the  grant  to  Osgood,  in  1708.  But  a  "  corne  mill"  was  built 
as  early  as  1683,  on  Vine  Brook,  b}^  John  Wilson,  (see  Wil.son), 
who  had  a  saw-mill  there  in  1680;  and  Thomas  Patten  had  a  mill 
at  Pattenville  as  early,  (see  Patten).  But  John  Parker  owned,  by 
grant  and  purchase,  at  least  two  large  lots  at  this  place  ;  and  a 
mill-pond  is  mentioned  there  in  1664.  Probabl}'  therefore  the  first 
mill  in  town  was  built  by  Mr.  Parker  and  about  1660,  on  Content 
Brook,  and  not  on  Concord  River.  Bacon's  mill,  at  the  falls  of  the 
Shawshiu,  is  mentioned  in  1707  and  perhai)s  was  built  earlier. 
Benjamin  Fitch  afterwards  owned  it,  and  it  was  long  known  as 
"Fitch's  mill." 
The  grant  from  which  all  subsequent  owners  have  held  the  water 
power  and  mill  privilege  at  North  Billerica  was  made,  as  follows  : — 
"At  a  General  Town  Meeting,  octob.  4.  1708,  Granted  to  Christoplier 
Osgood,  Jun'.,  of  Ahdouer,  all  that  neck  of  land  on  the  West  of  Concord 
Riuer,  lying  between  said  Eiuer  and  the  pathway  leading  to  broad  meadow, 
with  the  stream  ;it  the  falls,-  Reseruing  ten  pole  from  the  ford\\  ay  doun 
said  Riuer,  and  from  the  foot  of  the  Hill  going  dotni  into  broad  meadow  : 
provided,  tlie  said  Chi'isto])hei-  Osgood  do,  within  two  years  next  ensuing 
the  date  hereof.  Erect  and  maintain  a  good  grist  mill  upon  said  Riuer.  at 
the  falls  ouer  against  saru^'  Rogers  his  house  lot,  and  the  said  Osgood  dotli 
1  Records,  Vol.  I,  p.  49;   and  same,  Reverse,  p.  26. 
 - 314 - 
 - 315 - 
 - 316 - 
MILLS.    MANUFACTURES.  279 
Engage  to  ueoiire  and  defend  the  Town  of  Billerica  from  any  trouble  and 
charge  that  may  arise  for  damage  that  may  be  don  to  tlie  meadows  of  the 
Towns  aboue  us  by  said  mill-datn  ;  the  said  hind  is  given  &  granted  to  the 
said  Christopher  Osgood  and  his  heirs  (by  the  Town  of  Billerica)  so  long 
as  he  and  they  shall  maintain  a  good  grist  mill  at  said  place,  and  when  said 
mill  ceases,  the  said  land  sliall  Return  to  the  said  town  of  Billerica."' 
The  following  action  has  interest  in  this  connection  : — 
••March  27.  1710.  It  was  voted,  that  the  Town  of  Billerica  will  defend 
Mr.  Christopher  Osgood  from  bearing  any  charge  of  the  damage  in  flowing 
Dr.  Toothaclier's  medow  by  his  mill-dam,  said  Osgood  engaging  for  him- 
self &  
his  sucksessors  that  the  said  stream  that  was  granted  to  him  shall 
return  with  the  land  to  the  said  Town  of  Billerica,  when  the  said  mill 
cea.seth.  which  he  hold*  said  land  and  stream  by  :  passed  in  the  atHrmative. 
Jonathan  Bacon.  Josiah  Bacon.  &  Josiah  Fassett  entered  their  desent 
against  y^  uoat  aboue  written.'" 
••March  9.  1710-11.  at  a  meeting  of  the  proprietors  on  the  east  of 
Concord  Eiver.  there  was  Granted  to  Dr.  Roger  Toothacher  all  the  land  on 
the  east  side  of  the  highway  leading  to  his  house,  that  belonged  to  Farley's 
and  Marshall's  lots,  for  full  Recompense  and  in  Exchange  for  his  medow 
lot.  flow'd  by  Mr.  Osgood's  mill." 
Mr.  Osgood  built  and  maintained  a  grist-mill  and  saw-mill.  He 
probably  acquired  by  purchase  the  land  on  the  north  side,  which 
was  not  included  in  the  grant  ;  for  his  son  Christopher,  in  1747,  sold 
this  to  Joseph  Ruggles  with  right  to  use  water  for  a  fulling-mill, 
when  there  was  more  than  was  needed  for  Osgood's  mills.  In  1748, 
Mr.  Osgood's  executor  sold  his  mill  privilege  to  Nicholas  Sprake 
for  £1500,  who  in  turn  sold  to  William  Kidder.  In  1759,  John 
Carleton  came  from  Bradfortl  and  purchased  of  Kidder  what  was 
then  described  as  two-thirds  of  the  privilege,  Mr.  Ruggles'  right 
being  recognized  as  one-third.  Whether  Ruggles  sold  to  Carleton, 
I  am  not  able  to  say,  nor  whether  Thomas  Richardson  accj^uired  his 
title  of  Carleton  or  of  some  later  owner  ;  but  after  the  Revolution 
the  mills  were  known  as  ''Richardson's,"  and  the  Middlesex  Canal 
Compan}'  purchased  of  him,  1794,  March  25,  the  title,  which  was 
held  for  the  use  of  the  canal  until  1851,  September  22,  when  it  was 
sold  for  $20,000  to  Charles  P.  and  Thomas  Talbot,  its  present 
proprietors.  These  gentlemen  were  released,  by  vote  of  the  town, 
1864,  March  7,  from  the  obligation  to  maintain  a  grist-mill,  contained 
in  the  Osgood  grant,  the  town  judging,  no  doubt  correct!}',  that  the 
use  of  the  water  power  in  their  extensive  manufacturing  would  be  a 
greater  public  benefit  than  the  gi-ist-mill. 
 - 317 - 
280  HISTORY    OF    rJILLERTCA. 
Prior  to  this  action,  the  owners  of  the  water  power  had  prose- 
cnted  sueeessfull}'  before  the  Legishxtnre  a  contest  witli  the  towns  of 
Wayhmd,  Sudbiny,  Concord,  Bedford,  and  Cailisle,  and  tlie  owners 
of  meadows  above  on  the  river.  The  latter  luid  petitioned  the 
Legislature  in  1859,  claiming  that  the  dam  had  been  raised  and  was 
maintained  at  a  height  Avhich  damaged  the  meadows  and  reduced 
their  value,  and  they  asked  for  redress.  A  joint  committee  heard 
both  parties  at  length,  and  the  petitions,  arguments,  and  documents 
were  published  in  a  report,  {House  Doc. ^  
No.  100,  1860).  The  result 
was  not  conclusive  and,  in  18G1,  commissioners  were  appointed  b}' 
the  Legislature,  to  investigate,  make  experiments,  and  determine 
whether  the  dam  affected  the  meadows  in  the  towns  above.  To 
this  end,  thirty-four  stations  were  established  along  the  river,  and 
observations  were  carefully  recorded  for  two  months  from  21  Juh', 
1861,  the  effect  of  various  heights  of  water  at  the  dam  being  tested. 
The  observations  and  report  were  published,  {House  Doc..,  No.  1, 
1862) .  The  general  conclusion  was  that  "the  dam  at  North  Billerica 
is  not  the  0UI3'  nor  the  chief  cause  of  the  wet  state  of  the  meadows 
above.  The  bars  across  the  stream,  especiall}'  the  Fordwa}'  bar  ; 
the  weeds  filling  the  channel  in  many  places,  often  for  long  distances  ; 
the  discharge  into  the  river  during  summer  of  water  stored  in  reser- 
voirs and  mill-ponds  upon  the  Sudbury  and  Assabet  and  their 
tributaries,  in  their  combined  effect  do  far  more  damage  to  the 
meadows  than  the  Billerica  dam."  The}'  say  that  the  effect  of  the 
dam  becomes  inappreciable  at  Robbins  bar,  and  its  entire  remo\'al 
would  not  affect  the  upper  meadows  ;  that  effectual  relief  could  come 
to  the  meadows  onh'  by  reducing  the  dam  thirty-three  inches  or 
more,  cutting  out  the  Fordwa^'  and  other  bars,  deepening  the  shallow 
Ijlaces,  straightening  the  channel  at  some  points,  and  keeping  the 
river  free  from  weeds.  This  progrannne  was  moi"e  extensive  than 
the  Legislature  felt  itself  called  upon  to  undertake,  especially  as  it 
was  proved  that  similar  trouble  and  complaint  had  been  chronic  from 
the  first  settlement  of  the  country. 
Li  1811,  Francis  Faulkner  came  from  Acton  and  l)egan  the  man- 
ufacture of  
woolen  goods.  It  was  the  second  enterprise  of  this  class 
in  New  England,  Abraham  Marland  being  the  jjioneer,  who  began 
at  Andover  in  1810.  Mr.  I'aulkner  soon  purchased  of  the  Canal 
Company  the  secondary  water  pri^■ilege,  like  that  which  had  Ijelonged 
to  Joseph  Ruggles.  He  could  draw  water  until  it  was  "three-quarters 
of  an  inch  below  the  top  of  the  dam  and  flush-boards,"  Avhen  he  must 
 - 318 - 
 - 319 - 
 - 320 - 
MILLS.    ISIANUFACTURES.  281 
close  liis  gates,  nndev  a  peiuilty  of  one  dollar  for  every  half-hour  they 
were  left  open.  By  his  thrift,  skill,  and  enterprise,  INIr.  Faulkner 
made  his  business  very  suceessful,  and  transmitted  it  to  his  sons. 
The  firm  name  is  still  "J.  K.  Faulkner  &  Co.,"  and  his  grandson, 
Mr.  Kichard  Faulkner,  is  the  agent  now  in  charge  of  its  business. 
From  a  modest  beginning  with  a  single  set  of  cards  the  business  has 
increased  until  eight  sets  are  in  use,  employing  seventy-two  hands. 
The  monthly  pay-roll  is  about  $2500. 
Mr.  Charles  P.  Talbot  came  to  Billerica  in  183D  and  was  soon 
joined  I)}'  his  brother  Thomas  in  laying  the  foundations  of  their 
extensive  and  successful  enterprise.  The  dye  wood-mill  was  their 
earliest  undertaking,-  for  which  they  hired  a  building  of  the  Canal 
Company-.  In  1844  they  bought  the  saw-mill  of  Nathaniel  Stearns, 
on  the  northeast  side,  and  used  it  for  the  dyewood  business  until  it 
was  burned,  in  1853.  The}'  then  sold  this  site  to  INIr.  Faulkner, 
having  purchased  the  prior  and  larger  rights  of  the  Canal  Company 
on  tlie  other  side  of  the  stream.  There  they  rebuilt  the  dyewood- 
mill,  which  is  still  in  vigorous  operation;  and,  in  1857,  they  built 
their  woolen-mill.  This  at  first  had  eight  sets  of  cards  ;  six  were 
added  in  1870  and  as  many  in  1880.  Two  hundred  hands  are  now 
employed,  and  the  monthly  pay-roll  is  $7000.  In  1849,  the  Messrs. 
Talbot  began  their  chemical  works,  which  were  at  first  in  a  building- 
near  the  dei^ot,  but  removed  later  to  their  present  location,  sixty  rods 
farther  east,  b}-  the  railroad.  These  now  employ  sixteen  hands,  and 
produce  a  dail}'  average  of  five  tons  oil  of  vitriol,  one  ton  of  blue 
vitriol,  and  as  much  muriatic  acid. 
The  next  most  important  manufacturing  enterprise  was  begun 
soon  after  1830,  in  the  south  part  of  the  town,  b}-  Jonathan  Hill, 
Esq.  Its  specialty  was,  and  still  is,  a  useful  machine  for  splitting 
leather,  invented  and  patented  by  Samuel  Parker,  {see  19).  This 
machine  has  had  a  very  wide  sale  in  this  and  in  other  countries, 
being  almost  indispensable  in  the  manufacture  of  leather.  The 
business  was  sold,  in  1853,  to  Mr.  Charles  H.  Hill,  who  continues 
it  with  much  success.  Jn  1875,  the  value  of  tiie  work  done  was 
$28,000. 
In  the  east  part  of  the  tf)wn  Avhere  there  had  long  been  a  saw- 
mill, on  
Content  Brook,  Theophilus  Manning  had  also  a  grist-mill. 
He  sold  both,  in  1825,  to  Dea.  Aaron  H.  Patten,  who  began,  in  1845, 
the  manufacture  of  cabinet-work,  llie  l)usiness  grew  to  considerable 
proportions,  and  Pattenville  became  a  definite  local  name  in  town. 
 - 321 - 
282  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
The  business  reached  a  vahie  of  $20,000  to  $30,000  per  year,  and 
was  contuiued  by  his  sons  ;  but,  in  the  financial  depression  of 
1874-78,  it  suffered,  and  the  shops  were  sold,  in  1879,  to  Walter  J. 
Pettingell,  wlio  has  carried  on  Inisiness,  making  tanks,  until  the  mill 
was  burned,  Januar\',  1882. 
Most  recent  is  the  growth  of  an  extensive  glue  factory,  which 
was  commenced  in  1867  by  the  Jaquith  Brothers,  near  the  old  l)ridge 
of  the  Middlesex  Turnpike.  It  has  been  quite  prosperous,  doing  a 
business  amounting  to  nearly  $15,000  annually.  P'or  man}-  years 
the  Winnings  maintained  a  saw-mill  on  the  brook  running  from 
Winning's  Pond  ;  and  there  has  long  been  a  saw-mill,  now  owned 
by  Mr.  John  O.  Richardson,  on  Content  Brook,  near  the  railroad 
station  at  East  Billerica. 
 - 322 - 
CHAPTER   XYIII. 
BILLEIiICA    IN    THE    REBELLION. 
Of  the  part  wliieh  this  town  took  in  the  ^Vav  of  1812,  and  in 
the  Mexican  War,  the  town  and  State  archives  contain  no  record. 
Probably  Billerica  had  soldiers  in  both,  bnt  the  nnniber  was  small, 
and  the  scenes  of  action  were  too  remote  to  leave  any  distinct 
impression.  Far  otherwise  was  it  in  the  great  Secession  contest. 
When  the  life  of  the  nation  was  assailed  by  the  Southern  uprising, 
the  people  all  felt  the  blow  and  the  danger,  and  the  towns  asserted 
their  vital  relations  to  the  conflict  as  they  did  in  the  Revolutionary 
contest,  to  the  disturbance  of  British  councils.  No  one  who  expe- 
rienced it  
can  ever  forget  the  thrill  of  patriotic  emotion  which  went 
through  the  North  when  Sumter  was  assailed  and  I'resident  Lincoln 
called  for  fifty  thousand  volunteers  to  defend  the  Union.  PubUc 
meetiugs,  enlistments,  and  aid  societies  and  labors  engrossed  the 
public  mind.  In  Billerica  the  town  hall  was  thrown  open,  tlu'  church 
bell,  aided  by  the  drum  and  an  old  ship-gun,  sounding  tlie  call  to 
meetings  for  action  and  organization.  John  A.  Burrows  and  Charles 
N.  Fletcher  were  the  first  soldiers  mustered  from  Billerica.  The 
number  increased  rapidly.  Richardson's  Light  Infantiy,  of  Lowell, 
afterwards  the  Seventh  Liglit  Battery,  and  the  first  three-years 
company  in  the  field  from  Massachusetts,  visited  the  town  for  a 
reception  and  a  drill  ;  as  did  a  rifle  company.  Albert  E.  Farmer, 
who  was  taken  prisoner  at  Bull  Run  and  died  in  Richmond,  was  the 
first  soldier  from  Billerica  to  fall,  [n  1862,  after  the  defeat  of 
McClellan,  the  call  for  troops  was  responded  to  by  a  town  meeting 
and  the  ofler  of  a  bounty  for  enlistments,  They  were  easily  obtained, 
and  the  town's  quota  was  mustered  into  the  Thirty-Third  Regiment. 
An  interesting  meeting  was  held  in  the  town  hall  the  niglit  before 
their  departure.  A  call  for  nine-months  men  followed,  and  after  the 
supposed  quota  had   been  filled  it  was  found  that  more  men  were 
 - 323 - 
284  HISTORY    OF    BILLKRICA. 
needed,  and  town  meetings  and  bounties  were  a2,ain  called  into 
requisition.  lu  the  suunner  of  18G3  came  the  first  draft,  with  but 
small  results  from  this  town.  In  the  aufcuuni  etlbrts  for  volunteers 
were  renewed,  and  a  consideral)le  munber  of  veterans  whose  three- 
years  term  would  expire  in  18G4  re-enlisted  "for  the  war."  These 
brave  men,  who  after  so  long  and  severe  a  term  of  service  were 
read}'  to  rededicate  themselves  to  the  great  work,  should  l)e  held  in 
especial  honor,  and  their  names  can  be  traced  in  the  list  below.  In 
the  summer  of  18G4  came  a  second  draft  quite  as  meagre  in  results 
as  the  first,  for  onl}-  two  men  from  Billerica  were  accepted.  Other 
calls  were  filled  by  such  volunteers  as  could  be  secured  in  town  or 
beyond,  and  large  bounties  were  paid. 
The  news  of  victor}-  and  peace  filled  the  land  with  joy  in  the 
spring  of  18G5,  and  though  a  deep  shadow  followed  with  the  assassi- 
nation of  
the  beloved  Lincoln,  the  substantial  fruits  remained.  The 
returning  veterans  were  welcomed  on  the  Fourth  of  July  at  a  picnic 
in  the  grove  b}-  Concord  River  near  the  middle  bridge.  The  exercises, 
were  hearty  and  impressive,  including  an  address  of  welcome  by  Dr. 
Frank  E.  Bundy.  In  farther  testimony  to  the  valor  of  her  soldiers 
and  the  memory  of  her  dead,  the  town  has  erected  an  appropriate 
monument.  It  stands  upon  the  Common,  and  a  good  picture  of  it 
is  here  given.  It  is  a  shaft  of  white  granite,  six  feet  square  at  the 
base  and  twenty-five  feet  high.  The  shaft  is  crowned  with  the  figure 
of  a  soldier,  in  easy  position,  with  musket  at  rest.  In  raised  letters 
are  inscribed  the  names  "Peterslnn'g,"  "Gettysburg,"  •'■Newbern," 
"Lookout  Mountain,"  "Bull  Eun,"  "  Chancellorsville,"  "Baton 
Rouge,"  and  "Cedar  Mountain."  A  carved  eagle  surmounts  a 
shield,  and  upon  the  pedestal  is  the  inscription:  "Billerica  to  her 
heroes,  in  grateful  recognition  of  that  steadfastness  of  purpose, 
devotion  to  principle,  loyalt}'  to  countr}-,  and  trust  in  God,  which 
enabled  men  to  die  for  Liberty  and  Union."  On  the  east  and  west 
sides  are  the  names  of  tweut}'  dead  soldiers  : — 
"Adams,  Edward  A.  Huse,  Edwin  \V. 
Buckley,  Dennis  Locke,  VVanl 
Collins,  William  8.  Maxwell,  Thoinas  H. 
Edmunds,  .lames  F.  Parker,  Stephen  H. 
Farmer,  Albert  E.  I'atten,  Asa  .John 
Fletcher,  Charles  >f.  Richardson,  Josepli  F. 
<;ilMian.  (Jeorge  C.  Saunders.  Charles  A. 
(lilmau.  IJenhen  ,1.  Shiehls,  James 
Hanaford,  Franklin  Shumway,  Follard  II. 
Hayes,  William  Stewart,  John  C.*' 
 - 324 - 
1 
SOLDIERS     MONUMENT. 
 - 325 - 
 - 326 - 
BILLERICA    IN    THE    REBELLION.  285 
Four  other  naincs  will  be  tbiiud  in  tlie  ensuing  list  which  would 
properly  have  been  inscribed  with  their  comrades'  upon  the  monu- 
ment.    It  
is  due  to  them  that  they  be  houorably  mentioned  here  : — 
Davis,  Hihaji  E.  Peksoxs,  Edmakd  H. 
Xewbuky.  Hexkv  Tlttle,  Calvin  G. 
The  monument  was  dedicated  with  apiiroi)riate  ceremonies  and 
in  the  presence  of  a  vast  assemblage,  Wednesday,  8  October,  1873. 
Hon.  Thomas  Talbot  presided  ;  the  prayer  of  dedication  was  offered 
by  Rev.  INIr.  Ilussey,  and  an  oration  given  by  Col.  Rus-sel  H.  Con- 
well,  of  Boston,  (iovernor  Washburn,  Hon.  E.  R.  Hoar,  of  Concord, 
ex-Gov.  Onslow  Steinns,  of  New  Hampshire,  a  son  of  Billerica,  and 
others  participated  in  the  exercises,  which  were  held  in  a  mammoth 
tent  south  of  the  monument. 
RECORD   OF   SOLDIERS   AND   SAILORS   FROJI   BILLERICA   IN   THE    WAR 
OF   REBELLION,  18G1-65. 
[XoTE.  —  The  first  column  after  name  gives  date  of  muster;  the  second,  the  company 
and  regiment  (of  Massachusetts  Volunteers,  if  not  otherwise  stated)  ;  the  third,  the  end  of 
service,  which  is  by  regular  discharge,  unless  specified;  and  "dis."  signifies  disability.  A 
star  ("■)  denotes  death;  alone,  death  in  battle,  or  in  a  few  days;  a  star  with  "w."  (*w.), 
death  from  wounds;  and  with  "d."  (*d.),  death  from  disease  contracted  in  the  army.  The 
length  of  service  in  months  follows.  In  the  last  column,  "Re."  indicates  a  discharge  and 
reenlistment  ;  and  in  cases  of  promotion  the  rank  is  indicated;  and  where  more  than  one 
promotion  took  place,  the  highest  is  given,  otliers  being  implied..  Two  or  three  of  tliese  men 
from  Billerica  enlisted  from  other  towns.  This  list  of  names  has  been  prepared  with  great 
care  by  Mr.  Franklin  .hniuith.  It  is  gathered  primarily  from  the  Town  Records,  with  only 
such  insertions  as  evidence  demanded.  Some  other  names,  gleaned  from  the  Adjutant- 
(ieneral's  Records  but  not  found  in  Town  Records,  are  added  in  a  supplementary  list.  I'hat 
no  errors  or  omissions  will  be  found  is  too  much  to  hope.  For  the  arrangement  and  items 
of  the  table,  ]Mr.  Jaiiuith  is  not  responsible.] 
 - 327 - 
28G                          HISTORY   OF   BILLERICA. 
c 
o 
I                               *i 
5^  1— I              -T 
O 
a; 
ft 
2  2          S             ^               3                             a                  V 
2 
2    '^    Ct                  ^                           j^ 
s3 
Ifl  1  '^.         ^             ^ 
1-5 
X' 
'-''T 
— 
5  -t  -1-'"  
-1^               O                    s 
^                   ^ 
,—1 
ic  p  :f 
r'^^J  CO 
=  -«■: 
V 
Ji   P  • .-•   P   •                 7-                             ^53 
;^ 
X              p 
V  5  S  i          t  -^         ^   _:          I               S 
W  >-. 
1  
^'  ^ 
P^-^:^:^-          ^^          ^; 
g 
■/. 
'0 
b:  .- 
i:  =  s  =          s  C         p 
^, 
p 
"i  3 
n  :aj  :0  :a>                    cS    '/■                                       ;^                                                                                                                           £:  S  a 
:1^ 
•H^   OC 
X  •*> 
ci  'SJ 
^0)   0^   OJ   0/               ;:^    
q^              -3         o        m 
-Q 
•M      V 
-w   ij   (U 
o     M            «          €5    QD5 
<<1rHM 
^                                             „ 
•^ 
•^  -f  -f  1 -  TC  — .  --T  r--  -t  r:  ■•-:    ^  *  *^  I  —  ro  CO 
A*   '^    ^ 
-M  ^ 
CO  OI  '* 
CO  CO  00  lo 
O                   r-^  iC  -t            .     r^'           Tl           r-1 
'^ 
CO 
-t            ^T   ^ 
^^ 
■"^             CO  CO  i-<  lO 
CJ                           -V 
•  Iff 
?               C-l                               "M                     .      . 
f"* 
.—                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ol 
:_       .^lU        i.            1,'-= 
;_, 
'1-1                                                ^  .
't. 
_    
0-          ^,  'M           i              _  
'M  'p 
■3j 
^OICO 
lO 
J 
'•^i  i 
U) 
vi  
"^  
,^  tr. t ^  =    ?i t   & 
"= 
CO  x' 
■g ^   i 
1— 1    . 
—  CO                        5"=  CO 
li ^   
5                                                                                                                                             ;:5 ,-; 
•-r  l^^  ►-t  ^  C  "T  X'  ^  1-:.  o  ^ 
%. a;  a. 
bcS  £ 
t  h  >   ? 
5  E s  
t--  >»  !>>_>> 
c                                                                                           X 
3  S 3  :^  :^ 
^a 
fe  -^  ^ 
3's.5'3 
-+  -IH  ID  >c  -t  ro  -+'  -ri  ir:  -t  r-;' 
ri 
CO  '_fj 
>ft'  
-t  -t         I'-  c<^ 
CO  ^' 
co'  ■^i  co' 1-'  -f  lo'  --o' 
o 
p  ^  p  p  p  jC  JD  p  p  JC  JC 
cc 
P  P  P 
p  p 
^X                                                                                                                                         CO  CO  CO  'CO  'CO  CO  'CO 
*           '      '    
y. 
'J. 
Cft 
* 
o 
:s 
•^ 
'O 
'w 
^                                     ^-^ 
1 
to                                       b 
>- 
as 
^                         c:                                                                                             o                                 c 
TS 
«                                                    > 
c; 
c 
—     .  —  —            "^               .  ^ 
_; 
^  _o 
"     •     . 
_;             • "^^     . 
-M  "    -U    -U 
'CO  c^  »  o 
C??-^o5'S'5'S't333~o 
1^ 
Ta  CO  .^  ~  •/. 
^  ■/.  —   O  CO 
C 
CO  r^'tS 
6 
O  1^ ^    ^1   --^  -  -H  ^1  ^  ,-^  ^ 
-+  O  M 
^  'CO  f-^ 
C  CO  ^ 
■~   CO    ^  CO 
r-^  'M  't  CO 
f£i  ^'  cq  <f!  ■:;• O  :s  li;  r^  G  cq 
'K, 
^  Mp[^  hit  
r^ xOli  X  Q  X  Qxu: 
QMCft 
o           CO 
•o 
con^ 
TO                 'M 
-ri  i-H 
rH 
1—1  fM 
1    I,             .    .                .    ^                          ^  CO  IC  10       in 
11^ 
tl       ■^i -^  '-  "-- 
f^ 
B^rtS^sI^iT"^ 
^   U  -;                             S  J  3  S      E 
>    3  I   i 
C 
I 
=^  -S  i  t;  i^  bet;  >-i^i:'2  i:  =c  bf 
i;  ti  =  S7  s  =  iTJ:  3  -  --^  •-  =  = 
fa  O  •-  73  ^^  -1  X  r5  't.  -^  O  O  -1^  <            X  X  ^ ^  ^ 
•;:  s  o  P 
^                                                        ,    ,          t            *            r          r          »          * 
r         •- 
•-     <     .N 
r          <-         «           • 
-t  -m'  'm"  1-^  -t  'm'  r4  ^'  :c  -t  '-^' 
71 
JX  ^ 
r-H   -i'   f-H 
r^   ^^  ^1 
'M  ^ 
'M  ^  'M 
I-H  r— 1  ?C  r-^ 
o  '•i'  ci  CO  o  ';=  o  'i:-  o  o  o               p   p   p 
P  P   P 
■»     w 
CO  CO  CO  <:o  CD  CO  c^ 
,          t          t           r          t          .           -           r          *           r           t 
'    •" 
' 
r    •^   •■ 
'^ 
-g 
'3  S  c 
j-j  Qj  a. 
fa  ._ 
a;   cc   •/ 
^  is  ? 
J 
O     1h     Z    p    >. 
:/. 
?  P  P S2  S  s 
'D   O   O   P 
■^'^('^''t'^'IpqWMfCW 
^« 
AA   ^'^   A^^ A^    A'^    AA 
r^  P-  r. 
'S*!     ^^ 
xpcpqo;  CJ  O  Q  w 
 - 328 - 
BILLERICA    IN    THE    REBELLIOX.    "  287 
>v                tct              C                               ?  .^                     P-                 . S  S  JS  g 
4—                   a;  a;' 
X$ 
4      1^   O                  "*                         O                  ry^ "O                                r           ^           3    -'   ■^-  V^    -' 
'- " 
a      '^  
'"^ 
;t            ^  -t-^                   C                C                                      bn'w                           ijOf-.^SS-' 
1/           1.  tc  .?-^             rt  -      -  .-y.         c            ~  •-  •-■-       ■      K  ^«^ :i: 3  -V     3         -^ 
-r  be     lb        -ii'             ^■%'?.~,      =     P5  
>^  3  •    .    .      '    .          J 
"c      J  s  c 
:D           'X  :ai    rt 
CUi-               y'-^                      i^                                '-^     lj2     
a;       V  (V  C                                                                If}     -J.               TL              ■W4j'?'^"(»               ^f                        "^ 
K      OWH    5.-^     So         ^             ^5qQ     H      r*^M^Q     W         Q 
00  rO  T"!   —  O 
^_^ 
-+                 -t"M        >o  'to  Oi  0  0  0  0  ^  ^^  -t  0  -)<  ■■-s  I-  -+  CO  ■:£)  0  Oi  CO  — 1  ifj  -t  fc  t-^  0  CO  0 
r-lr-lrt'Mr^'M                  JO          CI                  r-(           lO^                  -H-*-!—           -t^'M           r-H 
06            •                          i>:         . 
•  ^             •          "^                                                           'M      .          '-^                 , J  
t^ 
^  1-       t-        i-                                       .  •_  t-        «            _       _•  I-            r^ 
'^'o^      1-:        ^  3; -,; '1     i  ^      .       ^i  . ^1    0.  ^1     i  '«■ , •  t    "T '=^    -*  '^^ 
July  
,    14. 
October 
,  
.\ugust 
,  
June  
2!). 
,  
August 
c6 
0, 
i  
iEfl  >-i&i-5  i s  
1^  i  
>|  bill  t '-  
n^^^ 
•1 
■?->.^.c^-^^^^^^<^i^o^-.^^^^^_5^c^^o^ 
,-.  —1.  ,^^  ,*  ** 
?c 
'**  :r  w  w  ^ If ir;  itt  1^'-+'  CO  co'  ic^  cf  ic  co  ro'^'cico"  'm'  -f'  -t  cc  'm'io  ifi  0  .n  -t  lo  >o  -*  'H 
.-  p :-  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  .-  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  p  p 
*                               *                      *                               r^                                                      *     73     M 
iT                                                              *     "rS 
.    ^ 
^    ^^A      r         i                            . 
a    .  r-  ■          r-                -^J                                                    ►*» 
|b|a       1           ^-                                  1 
—       —        aj 
'^             K     ^^                •C^'—        ••,                ••".                .'^.^^,,-^7t,-^-« 
~  .^  ^  -4  K 
^ 
^-M:-    .^?fl-^:r  -^;5^^  -^^^.3^73  -j:  =  CC^t3S 
^  '^  ,_,  'M    ^   —    iit"         '■^.-^.'^         -^itOij't2'MCOOiJ-d«0;*fCiC^«-"034^3iCi 
f  J+  £  ^1  ;^  
!^ £  ^  :+  ro  -  ,^  oi  CO  CO  "■  'M  i^  
CO  q;  
-M  ?i  I?  -.o  01  .c  '-  ?i  ?-i 
''3Zi<^'rl 
Ls: 
S  ^  t2  
.ii  
„•„•;:;  -1  „• d  US  a:  i^:  C  C  d <  _rd -h'K  ca  Li  
dpQ  13  Q  cc  co" 
— C  -1- 
d  ..;           d       '^^                                            -t  '^i                         d 
;:1h  ~^             .  
t  r  ?c                                CO          r^                           .                                  .  'M  —                                      CO 
,:    Si    5S    i,^s    2o-      s^ilsss    jij    ss 
■/: 
|S|i?:ri=il|-^l||22||l|||S||2|| 
'~'<^>~  r.-i 
br.  brj  t-.  5  "S  ^.  j^  >  ^  "X  bti  bc>.  J:;  be  ?^  >-  >i  =  >  -S  be  -c  be  >■-  be  >  >'  be  be 
^  -^  ^  Q  c/:)  ^,  C  >^^ ^  X'  -<  -1  S  O  -^  C'  1-5  
  -              ^ P5 .   O  ,  ^  .^ :/}<!<•<.,,   ^  ^^ ,   <l ^   J^ ,   Hj ^  <5 .. <i1., 
r-.'  
-*'  r4  r-^'  
p  p  p  p  pCC -m'  -t  -t  TO  ^  ^  'M  re  ^  T^l  -M  'M  ^  ^  •M  ^  -f  ^  fM  -^  C-l  1— 1  ^  d  -rfl  ^  fC  -f  rH  r^ 
O^COOOOO^OO^^OCDCDOOCD^OOCOCDCOCOCDOCDCDO 
_Cl;        
^<                                                                                                                         ;J 
^' 
_     
'_='='=.?     ".   
T-    ~   c-    _  •-  3^   a--   5^      ^  
"cir      '  qJ  C    3    3    3      •-  ,-/  3  ^  "1  C5  fiH 
-x 
 - 329 - 
288                         HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
«                    5         'J.   —                 ^^     «                            -f'  ^'  ?: 
h^.                      £          ^    -^ "r,      'c i:  >.  J 
•r; 
,— •      —  •—  c           *•' 
•/. 
ri            X    ti"'                      ~     C   
i^   V 
~ 
X          S  .i    X   i           :2 
TiH 
2      " "   
"s          2  "•  
"5  "s 
ri 
^i* 
O         j_.  •J'               -   >/■'   ^/*  '^ 
^                              J          :jj :S    ^  -v.           rt 
"d 
Oj 
*               M                                               *                              O.F-       a^  a,  2  ^       — 
      M « *  S      H 
'%. 
-Y'-O  <^                       x-f— .  XI-      i-ci-c         -f  rio  o  c:  c:  X  -f  en  o  c;  o 
o                  CC  CO  'M  ^      1-^          I—  -+  TC          -M  ^1  -M  -t< 
eft 
^t           Cft  rH  r^           -+  ift                  'M  Tl 
c 
u                                                     O  --1  "M         S^                                               '     f^         •      o         • 
r^          ^M          ~          O 
■s: 
a            :! '^^  
^- It 
r- 5  ^ ^   1^'        •    .  r^-  .                         Zl. 
>--  1-^    ^    —  2,   Z     X    —  'M    ~  t?   .-/; 
.    --^iO-Si.  ,    a.33 
=  =  ^  c  >.-^  °f  >  s  ^  'Ef  
—  "Z^     Cj                          i ;? ;<  -^ Q      -^►^  &; >^                                                    ■=* 
l" 
■<-=:" 
^■^                                           ^ 
'^  
-^ C   ?^.  
^' x   --^  
>^  
-?  
u                                                                                                                                                                                                           -X  -<  < 
-+'  -t  -)-' 
-i-  >r: 
-f'  
-+  1^' »c  -f'      -)<"  
1ft  -t  "ft 
-t 
ift'  
^:  -)h'  
ift'  
-t  rft'  
ift'  
ift'  
ri  '^^  ift'  
'»    '';»    'cr   »  d       p  ::;  p  p  p      p  p  p  p     p ^ZI^»wC^'^^»*dw ift 
'•••'••••••• 
O 
»•' 
(/'                                   — ;          '/               ^ 
X              X            * 
•a 
s-3c  
■'S 
"5                   *      '5           *                               '^      '::: 
^ 
■    Ul 
^                                          ^ 
>>-.  ij 
"So 
>, 
*B 
.=? 
M         a^                                                                                                                                                               ItO                    ,•               !>j  t^ 
a; 
^  ^                         i,                  C    IJ 
CS      'H 
rH         •     S 
d 
p^i^ 
i^  ^  '^ 
G  <1  'X'  K  M  t;  i5  -i  3  ^  Vi 
—   '"'  ri                                                                            S-St^^^i^'5^v^-52SM 
^i  ^  1 
Cm 
ni  
-:  ;S  >^  
,2i d  pa  
i^  
c'  
U:'  
t2  
i2 
t^              05 
-rj  Oft                         <ffl       ^  _: 
0^                     ;^ 
;~       . 
T    '-^         ^'  -^  ^ 
^ 
.ft-||    ..ft-S^    J^l  t 
V"; 
^              'M  ir: 
»ft             •    ^    *-      .         Ci^    •            c; 
'M 
s       •£  d  re 
7.    -y. 
^ 
"x  =  =?]X  i'x:;:^  Ex'z'S 
l-'i:-'5  
1. ^  1  i   
o                                it  be                                               C''-'^ = 1 H 1 i  l.i:- i^I  I b  i  1  ^  t  
01 
C     w    ^ 
C3 
Q^?^ 
■^  'I 
Q                                  ^>^<xx;<^-^C'^-i'-;-^xx-^-ic<;^x*^r^;:5 
^  ^  ^                                                                              €         r        r        r        <         € 
T-^    
(M' 
•ri  -t  H^  r-'  rH  -I-'  
C-i  'm'  1-"' ^  -t 
f— ^ 
ftl  C^l  r-^  -+  Cft  ft.T^  
r4  ^  i-T  "M  Tft  ~5 
p  p  p  CD  CO 
cbcDcooocococbco^co  p 
ppppppiSippzppp 
4 
.  .-f    ^    Pi^      ^ 
«  '— -  ^"^ 
5    
;/■   M-l                                '                                                                            ,^                                                     •^  ??  -i      _£  '^^  -  i      *■'■  .i 
?    2 
J  
^^ifl'^S^^cp^ 
'^ 
*=' > £   
-P  
i"^'  
2f'  
^''^'  
?'  
£•  
''■  
-' 
w        —        ^  —     —     — 
—  '  
r^'  ,^  ^  ^  i  i  ^  T  -"  — 
—       *    —    •— '7;c3r;r;^c3wOw 
^  — 1  — 1 
""  
r^ ^ 
^SSI^^mS^^'— .  
^(-J ^ i-;i-jMSf^<;?^r^rq?^J5!^ 
 - 330 - 
BILLERICA    IN    THE    REBELLION.                       289 
t 
i                                                                                                                  ... 
i.^.                —                                                                                                                                  ^          ^i                               *^* 
^               ^                                                                                                                S         rt                           rt 
S           -t"                                                               c                 yj c         S                      G 
-t=                       C                                           =                    .-f-t                  «-+ 
5jH                            o                        .                            O                     CL'-Op                    iJ2 
'    .-.        1                 ^              ^'""                r^,             ~   '      .     * .              ir    • 
sted 
F4.   
ess 
•shu: 
lity. 
out 
•al. 
"p.          ~                  t^             _^             -S'c2         P^'ss         '£'^'5 
:3           :                  o              a,              y  o  '^         ^  ;3      :o          X  r-  :p 
0,           a)                  [jj              fi^              .i^,Jo          ^<^<5^          •i;-S<ii 
'A         ^                 *              *              Q*'^         *MM         Q*K 
^:  b-  'Th  ffl  «  TC  -c  r:  Ci  r:  re  -t"  3  I-  :r  —.  -f  1-  •-:  -f  re  —  r-  v.  X  -t<  -f  o  1-  re  -f  o  -+  o  c; 
■rfirocoiTQ       CO           re       re.^'Mrei-'r:       r^rc       rt       -^^elerc■       ^       lefMr^n 
1  
-I                _•  1  
-1       1.         .                ^       1 ~  
7*  re  — •    •                     1^ 
'M                ;;-,  
-M        ^       _.            y:  re       ri  J  --^  ;fi '-                     •     '       -t     .  
-t 
re!:;^^iAl  ^l^rere'S  ?:^  =S  t'f^'^'Z  Z'P,  t  -  S^  ?'.«  ^  ^  ?i  
?.e  '^  
co  'S  
re 
5i:-=  bbl  G  5  5  
|^  =  
ii-B  5  ^Is  =  5  E S   ll^'c  s  '^:'i^'%a  i^% 
.rf4pi^C-=-=^2.5i=./=i=,=  ;^i^i;$C<^'=*^.'^;^^^-<>^^^ 
.y;  ,-■  ,,-;■  
_,; ,-'  _^' ,-,'  ~A  rr^  -4  -4  .-  re'  .e'  -t  le'  le  re  rr-'ie'  -+'  -+'  — '  
le'  le"  w'  'e'  re'  re'  
ce'  — '  
'O  ic  le  oe 
.—  ,■*  r'  .-^  ,'"'  ."^  ,■"'  ,"  ,■"  .~—  .-'  ."^  r'  :^  ^  .-'  .~  t"  t"  -'"'  t't^^'T'^^t^T'.     t"  t"  t"  ,     ^  ^ 
. •               *                   *               ^                          _; 
*                                                   *                           * 
-:    .    . 
59                                                                    "^  >.  t-,                      ;.-,  r- 
c^  «  -                        i-^::: 
le                                          le .  — n    ^^                           — '  ^                                           ''.-', 
ri                            -  .••                                           -        ■— 
P^                                                                                         -     >    >                                       >    i                                                            i'           X' 
.              ^C-                                                           id                                                                                         4^+J 
.."-■"                   .---...          .         ti   •  "t; 
-si^^sfi^^-s^f^H^ii^^^^fjiiil^^^if^^l^rs 
o  'N  CO  ^1   1-  ^r  ?c  --  :j:  -Jm  
-^  ^  -t  -H  r-i  .-  ^  £  ^  ^  -  ^  ^  ^'  ^  —  -  ^  ^  !j:  r^ 
ti5  
ffl Q  Li  K-'p  ;:5  
ii  uj  
fc^ J  <{ d  >4^  fi5 P  ti  a  G  o  ;^  ^  0  0  Q  c  w  ;:5  
-4  ^  ;5  
'J  
;2 ^ 
.^      ^        .  .^'      ^^    
=^     .         ^^-'r?^     .  .^  .-i    o  . 
^  i  .e     ^        
A^.'^.t      d  ^  i  "■  53  .e  ;;  .e  .e       J: i  i  i  t  
.e  ;= T  '=^'  
'^  x       t  
;? 
r=s?=;sss:rs|5*r?t|2s?5:iiiiifiisiii£i? 
•^   \   ^        -z.      _    —    —   c.     ——-—-,   —    —    —    —   ..     ---X:'^   —    —"r-i.     (Xr" 
ict;  it  >.£  >.  ifj  bfj  if:  >  >.  5C  -  te  -  r  br.  ir.  be  zu  >.  ^  ^  ^  >  ^  oc  ct  s  c  =  t  ^^  S  -iJ 
iri  rH  ei  r-'  ei  -+'  ei  ei  ei  A  -y  ei  ei  ei  A  re'  ei  ei  ei  ei  -t  r-'  .-^  ^  A  A  ei  ei  ei  ei  ei  re  -+  re'  
jp  o  p  p  p  p  i:  .u:  p  p  -p  -p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  p  pei 
r^     .     •          .     . 
-e  •-"  --  ri,  5:    ■•'  „ 
-J.           A                Z  '{'  ~  "  ^  ^  ~ 
EJ      •"■.'■-/    ^yS^^'^—'-^='±^      •      •      •      *'-    —    —    *C*          ;_i-i-:-;;-.    —    ^i;^— 
is  ^•^^^g'H.Z.-f-  i:§  §  .^ 2  S2  2  S  r  I   r   C   ^-^  ^.n  2  2  2  =  I:  =£3; 
■B   w, — 1   •      -^    3    :^    :_    ^  jz.   .'',  .^'-i'—   ^—  —  -—  4—  -i^-t--  —    ^-    —    r"    i.-^- — .f—   -—   -—   ^—   ^—   —    -/ 
B5:n=  0  =  =  =  =  =  C-H  ?/5^=  1  i  •!:  
^t:t:t:  J  ;  5  £  :5  .i  .i  .S  .ii  .i  .i  .i  "c  c 
gg;s^;5;^P^S^^ccciiH(i;^a;^A;;^p;^^pHM?^^^?;ww?;s;M 
 - 331 - 
290                         HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
«     i: 
t^ 
*,           !m    Q;    ^ 
.-;=  '»  -^  ^'  S 
•g^i^^a^ 
CO 
£ 
O 
o  «j 
•■  ^  're  ? 
a-' 
-SfiH 
o  a      c 
Q  !H, 
.2 
.    
Co                                CO    S 
a) 
in              Billerica 
3t            lieut..  
tra 
eenlistecl,  
' 
1st              lieutenan 
Captain,  
"66, 
Re..'64.  
Jun 
orpoi-al. 
at  
RBaton  
*          *  mPh                                 ow*         tioa 
.a 
a 
o           OOCi(MC50G05000rHlfflCO»a-^-*-^OOi'* 
rl  'M  <n  rH  CO  »0  lO  (M  !M  CO  ec  CO  lO  i-H  ,-1 
CO  GOtH  «5  C5  C5 
I— 1  CO  CO  lO  1-H  1—1 
ia 
u>  
0) 
03 
1 
1 
August  
24. 
,  
June  
3. 
October  
10. 
June  
3. 
September  
1 .
July  
30. 
June. 
June  
27. 
October  
20. 
December  
13. 
July  
5. 
■^co5^cocoioioio-tiiooio>re^inioioco»f5      fM  '-t^  >re  O  lO  >f5     ■ 
p  p  p  p  O  JO 
-f?^ 
-g  OQ-2  q" 
"'Sco^-;'3£i'S"*eoO-3  Sc2COCOT3-s"   cococoo^_j« 
£OC0«>^^«5j5jrec0C0S:^'Mf^t^'MC0.a  53X)^1  ^  M  CO  £  Jf 
S  i^Q K^6  W S M  ©"d '^i  fl^QQl^^  il W   C § Q d ^ W  
a-  CO  >o  CO 
-^  -ij  +-  -fci 
!^ '-^  
1-^ i2 .(^  -^ --^  -to  .  . 
' V   <^  ^  ,   .   o  ^  '''  ^  '^  *" 
.   '^   S-4   Sh 
IS  '3j  0.  4> 
-5X5.0 
co'T<^?^^^^^|^I'^^■^'-^r-^^rHc4corH(^i?^^r4I--ir^^'^-^^^rHl-HC<^rH  co~co 
Mrt.c.5.c,s■:»a;X!cc   £  £  S  £  2.£.^^S5s  s  s  ^^  c;:-'~:-:-'  o  o 
X'  X'  X  X  X  ct'  'Oj  «:■  CO  X'  cc  H  H  P  r>  ^  ^  ?  ^  ?*^ >< 
 - 332 - 
BILLERICA    IN    THE    REBELLION,                      291 
■X' 
&B 
^0, 
1— 1 
-c 
(M 
CO 
,__, 
"' 
s 
'A 
_^                                                                                               6 
Cl 
•^ 
CO 
0 
^ 
*^ 
»' 
r^ 
.V" 
cz 
f-^ 
*                                   Q 
—^ 
,^                    —  .-    «. 
O' 
■"*                                                                                        IS  l^  JO  -i< 
^~^ 
,—   ,  1 
rH 
rH  r-l  'M  'M 
r^                    -1- 
^ 
■/:'    . 
-J  -r 
■M          — ■  -^ 
■M 
T—     1   - 
^  ^ 
—           —    •- 
■^ 
i-    ;„ 
^    ;_ 
*■'           —     " 
1.                        ^    — 
^    !■ 
_—           ^    p'   ^ 
_            V    ~     ~               —  -i  -*                         ^        ■1 >  i  >i 
y.    z,yy 
~i^ 
^ 
»-   •■    «^-   #- 
ii     -^  1^   O 
1^   1^   -7" 
»* 
ic  10  <a  la 
c:5       'p  'p 
~: 
:b  j^r  iz 
_— 
*                                                                        p  pp  p 
■J.    
c/j  J-i    t/' 
•y' 
■J. 
J.     X 
•y" 
c/ 
4-i      tt 
n'T-i?  £" ^  ^ 
Jh     ^ 
p   V 
r^ 
i  r^ 
•  -^     ^ 
^C 
o  o    '  o   O   0   r"-   ^  z 
*      — 
a  a  >,o      ^                 0 
S  ^"'"1 
^_ 
*^ 
0  >P 
r!   X  j^   -y' 
-y. 
■*—    "^    :/- 
-y. 
f. 
>'  I     .
-"^  /*'T1  "^  ^ 
^* 
A* 
^  ►— 1  ^* 
.* 
7C 
pc 
^ H-  -"i  -—  J5 
r— 1   r^   --^ 
—  — 
^^    r—    »— 1 
p-^     —   5 
-^ 
-r  "^coit; 
^^-M  ^  4J 
^ -C  :^  ^J  ^ 
3r 
^ ■M  *J  '-^  rH 
a,  0,     ,  3, 
3. 
i- 
^     *   i* 
i- 
w 
C?      •- 
>>s> 
r' 
K^ 
;=;  —  > 
K^ 
^ s ^ ■J>'^ZJ 
L- 
~                          t— t     0 
•-'.          X 
c: 
re       Ti 
1^ 
2  ?i  =  -J  X   Vl  ■f-  S;  -y.      § ?! ,^. 
a? 
'^^ 
^-  ^1  
'^  
;2; 
-   ^.i:;   ^ 
if. 
>- 
it  >.  brj  ^ 
I> 
-1: 
^   =;  i  ><  >i 
^•^  X'^ 
*^ 
-^^ 
<  s  -^, ^ 
-^ 
^ 
■^ 
'^'^'^'~ 
in'  Ti^  -)<  -^^  -+  -t-  -t  -t  -)' 
i-i 
-f 
^ -+  -l-  -t  TC  TC        II 
P  P  P  P P P p  p  p P p p P P  P  P  P 
W 
r^ 
'•^ 
-  >'     i              _  K                        5 
—  ^        'r" 
^    <  *           r-' 
■y. 
^   — ,   ^   —     —              'y        Z^   ^ 
-^     a 
|l|3 
N 
^ 
r7 
5  —  ^ 
*-* 
■P 
yi   M 
i"!  
?1 
_.; 
^ 
JQ^   _:  J: 
lilt                 r  "^ S^.  ? 
"^ 
til 
s i: 
=  ^ 
b J   i"! 
<<'A^ 
'<M 
'F 
III 
^  72  -X  X 
I^Fl 
 - 333 - 
CHAPTER  XIX. 
THE    MOTHER-TOWN    OF    BILLERICAY    IN    ENGLAND. 
[The  author  is  happy  to  give  place  in  this  chapter  to  Rev. 
Edward  G.  Porter,  of  Lexington,  who,  at  his  special  request,  paid 
a  visit,  in  1879,  to  Billerieay,  the  mother-town,  in  England,  and 
gives  pleasant  record  of  facts  and  impressions  there  gathered  and 
likely  to  be  of  interest.] 
It  must  always  l)e  an  occasion  of  regret  that  so  little  is  known 
of  the  orighi  of  our  New  England  towns.  If  the  early  settlers  had 
imagined  what  interest  would,  in  after  years,  gather  around  tlie 
humble  beginnings  of  their  enterprise,  they  would,  no  doul)t,  have 
left  us  a  much  fuller  account  of  themselves  and  their  movements. 
But  they  were  unconsciously  making  history  ;  and  it  is  usually  true 
that  the  men  who  make  history  are  not  the  ones  to  write  it.  Many 
of  our  early  town  records  have  preserved  the  names  of  the  original 
proprietors,  but  we  look  in  vain  for  any  extended  account  of  their 
lives,  the  places  they  came  from,  the  ships  they  sailed  in,  and  the 
ports  they  arrived  at.  We  know  that  Jonathan  Danforth,  Ralph 
Hill,  John  Parker,  and  William  French,  the  earty  settlers  of  Billerica, 
came  from  the  eastern  counties  of  England  ;  and  there  is  reason  to 
believe  that  Hill  and  French  were  from  Billerieay  in  Essex.  But 
what  the  circumstances  were  which  led  them  to  join  the  colonists, 
what  sacrifices  the}'  made  in  coming,  what  relatives  they  left  behind, 
what  incidents  attended  the  long  journe}-,  can  only  be  conjectured. 
We  know,  however,  that,  although  the  colonists  of  New  England 
voluntarily  left  the  land  of  their  birth,  they  did  not  cease  to  love  it. 
They  brought  with  them  as  much  of  it  as  they  could  —  its  laws,  its 
religion,  its  home-life.  They  were  still  British  subjects,  loyal  to  the 
crown.  In  proof  of  their  affection  for  the  mother-country,  witness 
their  almost  universal  practice  of  naming  their  new  settlements  after 
the  places  from  whicli  the}-  had  come.     Thus  we  have   Plymouth, 
 - 334 - 
THE    MOTHER-TOWN    OF    BILLERICAY.  293 
Dorchester,  "Weymouth,  Ipswich,  Braintree,  Suclbiuy,  Billerica,  and 
scores  of  other  well-known  English  names  reproduced  on  our  soil. 
This  fact  alone  will  ever  preserve  to  us  the  memorj'  of  our  origin. 
As  we  are  not  ashamed  of  our  forefathers,  neither  are  we  ashamed 
of  the  country  from  which  the}'  came.  No  better  material  for  the 
founders  of  towns  and  states  could  be  had  than  that  which  the 
Anglo-Saxon  race  furnished  in  the  seventeenth  century,  and  no 
truer  men  ever  crossed  the  sea  than  those  who  came  from  the  sturdy 
3eomanry  of  Old  Essex. 
It  was  just  at  the  beginning  of  June  —  the  loveliest  season  of 
all  the  3ear  —  when  I  paid  a  promised  A'isit  to  Billeiicay.  From 
London  the  journey  is  accomplished  b^'  rail  on  the  fireat  Eastern 
line  as  far  as  Brentwood,  (nineteen  miles,)  and  then  l)y  the  carriage 
road,  a  pleasant  drive  of  five  miles.  Accustomed  as  we  are  in 
America  to  see  nature  in  her  ruder  and  less  cultivated  aspects,  there 
is  a  great  charm  in  the  soft  and  finished  landscape  of  England.  No 
rough  ledges  assert  their  supremacy  over  the  soil  ;  no  broken-down 
stone  walls  or  worn-out  fences  mar  the  symmetry  of  the  picture. 
The  roads  are  well  made  and  well  kept.  Heaps  of  hammered  stone 
may  be  seen  at  intervals,  piled  up  in  regular  order,  for  use  upon 
the  road  as  occasion  ma}-  require.  On  either  side,  the  hedge-rows, 
usuolly  of  hawthorn,  furnish  an  agreeable  l)order,  sliaded  often  by 
the  overhanging  oak,  elm,  and  poplar.  Daisies  and  i)rimr(^ses, 
sweet-scented  lilacs  and  lilies  of  the  valley,  al)ound  in  great  i)rofu- 
sion  in  the  spring  and  early  summer.  Wheat,  clover,  and  Iteans  are 
cultivated  in  large  quantities  in  this  section.  Here  and  there  a  siiinll 
stream  is  crossed  b}'  a  stone  bridge,  with  its  graceful  arch  reflected 
in  the  water,  where  the  cattle  are  often  seen  quietly  standing  in 
groups,  and  near  by  the  sheep  feeding  in  the  rich,  green  pastures. 
Many  of  the  houses,  even  of  the  humbler  people,  have  plants  taste- 
fully arranged  in  boxes  suspended  from  the  window-sills.  Ferneries 
and  rockeries,  both  indoors  and  out,  are  very  common.  The  ivy  is 
everywhere  seen  twining  over  brick  walls  and  stone  porches,  covering 
with  its  leafy  mantle  much  that  would  otherwise  be  excessivel}-  phun. 
The  road  which  we  are  following  is  the  old  highwa}'  from  London  to 
Chelmsford,  Colchester,  and  the  eastern  counties.  As  Billericay  is 
situated  on  an  elevated  plateau  or  ridge  to  the  eastward,  we  leave 
the  main  road  at  a  small  hamlet  called  Shentield,  where  there  is  a  ^ 
church,  a  shop,  and  two  old  taverns  still  bearing  their  ancient  names 
of  Green  Dragon  and  The  Eagle  and  Child. 
 - 335 - 
294                          HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
From  Shenlield  the  road  passes  through  a  rich,  open,  agrieiiltural 
coiintr}-,  ascending  gradnalh'  the  ahiiost  imperceptible  slope,  on  the 
crest  of  which  Billericay  is  built.  The  situation  is  in  many  respects 
like  that  of  its  namesake  in  Massachusetts.  Entering  the  town 
from  the  southwest,  we  pass  along  the  main  street,  a  ])road,  winding, 
macadamized  thoroughfare,  lined  for  the  most  i)art  with  neat,  two- 
story,  brick  houses,  standing  close  together,  as  is  nsuall}-  the  case  in 
European  villages.  The  houses  have  evidently  l)een  built  at  very 
different  periods.  Some  have  the  quaint  gables  and  projecting  upper 
stories  of  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries,  wliile  others  are 
MAIN    STl!Ki:X.   BILI.KKK  AV.   l.(M»KlN(i    SOITII. 
more  modern,  a  few  being  of  quite  recent  construction.  The  village 
is  well  lighted  with  gas.  Fift}'  years  ago  the  jjopulation  was  about 
two  thousand.  The  numbm-  has  fallen  off  since  then,  owing  to  tlie 
loss  of  the  silk-weaving  and  coaching  interests,  which  for  a  long- 
period  contributed  nnich  to  the  prosperity  of  the  place.  The  weekly 
market,  instituted  by  Edward  ^^\  llTCi,  is  held  on  Tuesdays,  when 
the  village  assumes  a  lively  appearance,  as  it  tlieu  becomes  the 
centre  of  trade  for  tlie  entire  neighboihood.  Great  fairs  are  also 
held,  1(3'  
an  ancient  privilege,  in  August  and  October,  chiefly  for  cattle. 
The  principal  business  now  is  in  "corn,"  as  the  English  call  it,  i.e. 
grain,  of  which  a  large  quantity  is  raised  in  this  part  of  Essex. 
The  manorial  rights  of  Billericay  are  vested  in  tlu-    present    Lord 
 - 336 - 
THE    MOTHER-TOWN    OF    BILLERICAY.  295 
Petre,  who  holds  a  court-leet  nnd  bai'on  annually  in  the  spring,  at  the 
former  of  which  the  constables  and  other  officers  for  the  internal 
regulation  of  the  town  are  appointed.  Petty  sessions  are  held  at 
the  town  hall,  over  the  market-house,  on  the  first  and  third  Tuesdays 
of  each  month. 
The  history  of  this  large  property,  which  includes  not  only  the 
village  of  Billericay  but  a  large  section  of  country  in  its  vicinity,  is 
a  curious  illustration  of  the  way  in  which  great  estates  have  lieen 
accumulated  iind  entailed  in  England.  The  first  Lord  Petre,  Sir 
William,  lived  three  hundred  years  ago,  and  was  wise  enough  in  his 
generation  t(^  accommodate  his  lo3"alty,  and  his  religion  as  well,  to 
the  rajjjd  and  contradictory  changes  that  occurred  under  Henry  VIII, 
Edward  VI,  Mary,  and  Elizabeth,  in  consequence  of  which  many 
rich  abbe}'  lands  and  manors  fell  into  his  hands.  This  time-serving 
policy  was  so  apparent,  that  Sir  William  was  generally  spoken  of  as 
the  man  who  was  "made  of  the  willow  and  not  of  the  oak."  He 
was,  however,  a  generous  benefactor  to  Exeter  College,  Oxford  ;  and 
his  daughter,  who  married  the  famous  Nicholas  Wadham,  became, 
with  her  husband,  co-founder  of  Wadham  College,  Oxford.  The 
old  seat  of  the  familv  was  Ingatestone  Hall,  a  few  miles  west  of 
Billerica}',  near  the  line  of  the  old  Roman  road.  This  hall  is  still 
standing,  a  venerable,  irregular  Elizabethan  pile,  covered  with  ivy, 
and  surrounded  by  old  gardens  and  fish-ponds.  One  of  tlie  rooms 
still  Contains  some  fine  sixteenth  century  tapestry.  '  The  modern 
residence  of  the  family  is  at  Thorndon  Hall,  a  magniticent  seat  on  a 
gentle  eminence  overlooking  an  extensive  park,  which  can  be  seen 
from  Billericay.  - 
The  introduction  of  railroads  was  a  blow  to  the  ancient  prosperity 
of  Billericav.  Being  on  high  land,  the  town  was  left  at  a  distance  of 
several  miles  from  the  Clreat  Eastern  line.  The  brisk  and  jirofitable 
traffic  which  formerly  passed  directly  through  the  town  was  thus 
diverted.  The  oldtime  inns,  such  as  the  Crown,  the  White  Hart, 
the  Horse-Shoe,  the  Red  Lion,  the  Bull,  the  Sun,  the  Checkers, 
and  the  White  Lion,  at  which  the  coaches  and  teams  stopped  daily, 
may  still  be  seen,  though  most  of  them  are  shorn  of  their  glorj-,  and 
the  traveller  looks  in  vain  for  the  post-lads  who  used  to  be  always 
ready  dressed  and  spurred  up  for  dnt}'.     From  its  situation  at  the 
'  
The  place  is  described  by  Miss  Braddon  in  lier  Lady  Audley's  Secret. 
-  
The  (ireat  Eastern  Railway  runs  for  seven  miles  through  Lord  Petre's  property;   the 
company  paid  for  the  strip  of  land  thus  occupied  over  £120,000. 
 - 337 - 
296  HISTORY    OF    BILLEKICA. 
crossing  of  several  old  roiuls,  IJillericuy  becunie  u  tlioronglif:iro  cspe- 
ciiiUy  for  the  traA'el  between  Chelmsford  and  Ilorndon-on-tlie-liill, 
Tilbury  and  (iravesend.  One  of  the  most  conspicuous  buildings  in 
the  place  is  the  work-house,  or  "  Billerica}"  Union,"  as  it  is  called,  a 
large  modern  structure,'  pleasantly-  located  in  the  outskirts  of  the 
town,  on  the  Chelmsford  Road.  The  poor  of  several  parishes  in  the 
vicinit}'  are  well  cared  for  in  this  estal)lishment,  which  is  admirably 
managed  under  the  direction  of  a  Ijoard  of  guardians.  On  the  ridge 
just  outside  the  village,  two  venerable  wind-mills  form  a  prominent 
object  in  the  landscape  —  remnants  of  the  many  that  formerly  lint'd 
the  hills  in  the  eastern  counties.  .Some  of  t!ie  people  still  remember 
the  old  l)eacon  of  fagots  that  flaslied  the  signal  lights  from  this  spot, 
on  important  occasions,  over  a  good  part  of  Essex.  The  view  from 
here  on  a  clear  day  is  very  extensive  in  all  directions,  particulai'ly 
over  tlie  l)i'()a(l  Thames  valley  and  the  Kentish  hills  beyond. 
The  oiigin  of  the  name  of  Billericay  is  obscure.  Morant,  the 
old  historian  of  Essex,  states  that,  in  1343,  it  was  called  Beleuca, 
probably,  he  says,  from  the  old  word  ""baleuga"  or  •'    ))anU'uga,"  a 
precinct  around  a  borough  or  manor;  in  Erench,  "Hjanlieue."  .Some 
learned  anti(|uaries  contend  that  the  name  is  more  likely  to  be  derived 
from  tile  two  Latin  woids  ''    BelU'ri-castra,"  the  camp  of  Bellerus. 
Others  think  it  may  have  come  from  certain  Welsh  words  signifying 
the  fort  on  the  hill.  The  interpretation  suggested  by  some  one  in 
this  country,  "villa  rica,"  does  not  meet  Avith  favor  in  England, 
though  it  is  not  easy  to  see  why  not,  since  it  is  well  known  that  "■  v" 
and  "b"  have  often  been  used  interchangeably.  But  whatever  ma\' 
have  been  the  origin  of  the  name,  it  is  an  indisputable  fact  that  the 
town  has  been  known  by  its  present  name,  with  slight  variations,  for 
many  centuries.  In  1395,  allusion  is  made  in  the  Pipe  Koll  to  one 
"Thomas  Ledere,  traitor  to  the  King,  beht'adcd  at  Billerica."  In  a 
grant  of  Edward  \'I,  a.  i>.  I.'j.jI,  the  name  is  spelt  both  Billerica  and 
Billerykay.  In  ir)(;3,  among  the  ecclesiastical  accounts  of  Chelms- 
ford are  two  entries  of  sums  rcceixcd  (Vom  ''Belyreca  men  for  the 
hire  of  our  garments,"  i.e.  costumes  for  a  miracle  i>la.v.  Among 
some  tradesmen's  tokens  of  the  seventeeutii  century  is  one  inscribed, 
"Abraham  Thresher  in  Billericay,  Essex,  his  half-penny,  IGliG." 
The  immediate  neighborhood  of  Billericay  exhibits  memorials  of 
nearly  every  important  epoch  in  English  history.  In  Norsey  Wood, 
beyond  the  northern  end  of  the  village,  are  several  large  earthworks 
which  are  believed  to  be  the  defences  of  an  ancient  British  village. 
 - 338 - 
THE    MOTHER-TOWN    OF    BILLERICAY.  297 
Numerous  cinerary  urns  of  rude  workniansliip,  containing'  burnt  l^ones 
and  ashes,  have  been  exhumed  in  the  tumuli,  or  mounds,  which  have 
been  recently  opened.''  Two  finely-shaped  kelts,  one  of  flint  and  the 
other  of  bronze,  have  been  found  near  by.  ^  So  far  as  excavations 
have  gone,  the  whole  neighborhood  appears  to  be  rich  in  relics  of 
the  Roman  period,  showing  that  this  must  have  been  a  military  i)ost 
of  considerable  importance.  Earthen  vessels  of  various  shapes  and 
colors,  tiles,  beads,  fibulaj,  specula,  and  especially  coins  have  been 
found  in  large  (juantities.  Some  of  the  latter  are  finely  preserved 
and  bear  the  impress  of  the  Emperors  Hadrian,  Germanicus,  Con- 
stantine,  Licinius,  Nero,  and  Trajan,  and  of  the  Empresses  Eaustina 
and  Helena."'  It  Is -believed  that  the  place  called  Blunt's  Walls, 
near  by,  was  a  strong  Roman  fortress,  which  subsequently-  conferred 
upon  the  estate  the  appellation  of  walls  or  strongholds,  as  recorded 
in  the  grant  made  ])y  Henry  HI  to  Robert  de  Blunt,  who  joined 
Simon  de  Montfort. 
After  the  Roman  came  the  Saxon  and  the  Dane;  and  "Belleri 
castra"  bore  its  share  of  the  devastating  changes  which  swept  over 
England.  Then  came  peace  and  prosperity  in  the  train  of  Christian- 
ity, whose  holy  lites  began  to  be  celebrated  b\'  devoted  missionaries. 
The  original  cluuch  for  this  parish  was  not  in  the  present  village  of 
Billericay,  but  at  (Jreat  Bin-ghstead,  (Burgsted,  ''Bursted  Magna,") 
a  mile  and  a  half  toward  the  south.  This  was  prol)ably  near  the 
residence  of  the  Saxon  thane  who,  embracing  the  Christian  faith, 
assisted  in  building  a  rude  wooden  edifice  for  worship.  Then  came 
a  small  church  of  stone,  which,  soon  after  the  overthrow  of  Harold, 
(a.d.  10G6,)  gave  place  to  a  large  Norman  structure,  destined  to  be 
incorporated  within  the  walls  of  a  much  finer  building  which  we  see 
standing  there  to-day.  The  heavy,  machicholated  stone  tower  is 
surmounted  l)y  a  wooden  spire  and  weather-cock.  On  one  of  the 
five  bells  hanging  in  the  tower  is  inscribed,  "Vox  Augustini  sonet  in 
aure  Dei.  A.  I).  H.'Jd."  At  different  times,  beautiful,  decorated 
windows  have  been  inserted  in  the  thick  stone  walls,  while  the  small 
Norman  lancet-windows  in  the  north  aisle  have  been  happil}-  left 
untouched  ;  a  south  aisle  and  chancel  have  been  added  ;  also  a  stone 
font,  two  piscenas,  and  various  monumental  tablets  in  memory'  of 
3  In  18()5,  by  Kev.  E.  L.  Cutts,  now  of  Haverstock  Hill,  London;  author  of  St.  Cedd's 
Crosa,  The  First  Hector  of  liurgstead,  etc. 
■•  
See  Proceedings  of  London  Society  of  Antiquaries.    \\m\  4,  l!S78. 
6  JIany  of  these  relics  are  in  the  jjossession  of  Major  Thomas  Jenner  Spitty  and  J.  A. 
Siiarvel-Bayly,  Es<j.,  F.  s.  A.,  of  Billericay.    The  latter  has  written  upon  the  subject. 
 - 339 - 
298                          HISTORY   OF   BILLERICA. 
certtiin  pi-ouiinent  [)(.'i\sons  in  tlu'  paiisli.  Over  the  north  door, 
car\'e(l  in  Edwardia'.i  characters,  are  seen  the  words  of  the  angelic 
salntation,  "Ave  Maria  plena  gratia,"  etc.  The  floor  of  the  church 
is  paved  with  brick  ;  the  pulpit  is  very  high  and  reached  by  a  flight 
of  nine  steps.  (It  ought  to  be  said  that  the  present  incumbent  does 
not  attempt  to  preach  from  it.)  The  pews  are  nearly  five  feet  high 
and  are  lined  inside  with  old  green  baize.  Both  the  pulpit  and  the 
pews  are  unpainted.  In  the  vestry  the  tithe-map  is  kept  in  a 
copper  case  and  padlocked  to  the  wall.  The  parish  records,  bound 
in  vellum,  cover  a  period  of  about  three  hundred  years,  and    are 
(iliKAT   BrR<4STKAI)    rAKlSII   CHUltCII.  BILLKHICAV. 
kept  in  the  custody  of  the  minister.  Tlie  eai'lier  entries  are  not 
easily  deciphered,  unless  the  reader  is  an  expert.  The  churchyard 
is  peopled  with  the  dead  of  Billericay  for  many  centuries.  The 
present  sexton  has  buried  over  a  thousand  persons  during  the  last 
twenty-five  years.  In  the  accompanying  engraving,  an  ancient  ^-ew 
tree  shades  the  south  porch,  a  weather-beaten  mass  of  oak  beams, 
ver}'  much  in  need  in  repair. 
The  connection  of  Billerica}'  with  Hadleigh  Castle  should  have 
brief  notice.  This  castle,  built  liy  Hubert  de  Burgh  in  the  reign 
of  Henry  III,  was  pulled  down  and  rebuilt  by  Edward  III.  In  the 
Public  Record  office  there  is  a  full  account  of  the  expenses  incurred 
 - 340 - 
THE    MOTHER-TOWN    OF    BILLERICAY.  299 
in  the  work.  Among  them  are  t're(j[uent  entries  I'or  the  carriage  of 
goods  and  material  from  Billericay,  but  no  entry  of  payment  there- 
for. We  remember  that  men  were  taken  in  those  days  upon  the 
king's  order  and  re({uired  to  work  upon  his  buildings,  and  we  are 
not  surprised  at  the  widespread  feeling  of  discontent  which  found 
exi)ression  in  the  great  uprising  of  the  people,  led  bj-  Wat  Tyler, 
of  Essex,  in  1381.  As  man}-  as  one  hundred  thousand  rudel} -armed 
men  are  said  to  have  joined  in  this  insurrection.  The  Essex  division 
under  the  famous  Jack  Straw,  after  leaving  London,  deluded  by  the 
king's  promises,  retired  to  Billericay,  where  they  intrenched  them- 
selves—  a  large  arn^y  —  in  Norsey  Wood,  and  sent  messengers  to 
the  king,  Richard  II,'  demanding  to  know  whether  he  had  recalled, 
as  reported,  his  letters  of  pardon.  The  king  sent  back  a  haughty 
answer,  followed  by  troops  under  the  Earl  of  Buckingham,  who 
attacked  the  camp  in  Norsey  Wood  and  completely  routed  it,  slaying", 
it  is  said,  as  man}-  as  five  hundred  of  tlie  insurgents  and  taking  many 
prisoners.  The  Pipe-Roll  record  shows  that  in  the  market-place 
of  Billericay  the  headsman  executed  his  fell  craft  upon  man}-  a 
miserable  victim.'' 
In  process  of  time  the  [)eople  of  Billericay,  finding  it  inconvenient 
to  attend  the  parish  church  at  Burgstead,  obtained  a  free  chapel  (or 
chantry)  in  their  own  village,  and  this  has  since  become  the  principal 
Anglican  place  of  worship.  It  is  a  plain  brick  building  with  nothing 
very  old  aliout  it  except  the  tower,  in  which  hangs  an  ancient  bell, 
inscribed  in  Lombardic  characters:  "-|-  (ialfridus  :  de  :  Hedemtun 
:  me  :  
fecit."  There  is  also'  a  large  and  flourishing  Congregational 
Church,  which  has  been  served  l)y  a  long  succession  of  able  and 
devoted  pastors,  amongst  whom  may  be  mentioned  the  names  of 
Thomas  Jackson,  Philip  Davis  (a  pupil  of  Isaac  Watts)  ,  and  John 
Thornton,  whose  ministry  of  over  forty  years  is  distinguished  by  the 
excellent  books  which  he  wrote,  and  the  eminent  ministers  who 
pursued  their  theological  studies  under  his  direction.  The  Rev. 
Alfred  Kluht,  the  present  pastor,  is  much  esteemed  for  his  character 
and  usefulness. 
Although  Billerica}-  cannot  exactl}-  boast  of  a  Dick  Whittington, 
a  certain  young  man  from  the  town  did  make  his  appearance  in  the 
great  city  of  London  about  the  middle  of  the  fifteenth  century,  and, 
eml)arking  in  trade,  he  flourished,  grew  wealthy,  received  the  honor 
"  
See  paper  Essex  in  Jnsurrectio-n  ,  
1381,"  by  J.  A.  Sparvel-Bayly,  f.  s.  a. 
 - 341 - 
300  HISTORY   OF   BILLERICA. 
of  kuighthouil,  and  died  Sir  ,)ohii  Bayly,  Lord  Mayor  of  London. 
In  1531,  John  Tyrel,  of  Billerk-a}',  a  tailor,  appears  among  those 
who  were  apprehended  for  nonconformity.  He  was  one  of  the  early 
converts  made  b}'  Hngh  Latimer.  During  the  terril)le  persecutions 
under  Queen  IMary,  Billericay  had  the  honor  of  furnishing  two  victims 
to  swell  the  noble  army  of  mart^'rs.  One  was  Thomas,  or  "  Worthie, 
AV^attes,"  as  he  was  called,  a  preacher  who  was  repeatedly'  summoned 
before  Bishop  Bonner  for  proclaiming  his  religious  views.  Li  June, 
ir).'),";,  he  was  conve3'ed  to  Chelmsford,  where  he  was  burnt.  There 
were  five  martyrs  together,  and  ha-\-ing  i)artaken  of  a  meal  they  knelt 
down  and  prayed,  alter  which  "\\'atts  went  and  prayed  privately  ))y 
himself,  and  then  came  to  his  wife  and  six  children  and  said  :  "■  Wife, 
and  my  good  children,  I  must  now  depart  from  you.  As  the  Lord 
hath  given  you  to  me,  so  I  give  3'ou  again  unto  the  Lord,  whom  1 
charge  vou  see  vou  do  obe}'  and  fear  Him.  .  I  shall  anon,  by  God's 
grace,  give  my  blood.  Let  not  the  nuu'dering  of  God's  saints  cause 
you  to  relent,  but  take  occasion  thereby  to  be  stronger  in  the  Lord's 
quarrel.  I  doubt  not  Lie  will  be  a  merciful  Father  unto  .you."  Two  of 
his  children  offered  to  be  burnt  with  him.  After  viewing  the  stake  he 
spoke  to  Lord  Rich,  a  fierce  persecuter  of  the  Protestants,  and  said  : 
'■''M}^  lord,  beware  !  beware!  unless  you  repent  of  this,  God  will 
avenge  it.  You  are  the  cause  of  this  my  death."  The  other  martyr 
from  Billericay  was  a  humble  woman,  Jane  Horns,  "a  maid,"  who 
appeared  before  Bonner  the  following  year  and  was  burnt  at  Stratford. 
Two  other  persons  from  Billerica}-  during  these  trying  times  were 
sent  n[)  to  Bonner  —  Jane,  the  wife  of  Hugh  Potter,  and  James 
Harris,  a  stripling  of  seventeen  years.  The  special  crime  with  which 
the  latter  was  charged  was  "not  having  come  to  his  parisli  church 
by  the  space  of  one  year  or  more."  This  he  admitted.  Bonner  now 
commanded  him  to  go  at  once  to  confession.  To  this  he  consented, 
but  when  he  came  to  the  priest  he  stood  still  and  said  nothing. 
"Why,"  quoth  the  priest,  "  sayest  thou  nothing?"  "What  shall  1 
say?"  said  Harris.  "Thou  nuist  confess  thy  sins,"  said  the  priest. 
"  M}-  sins,"  said  he,  "be  so  many  that  thev  cannot  be  numbered." 
With  that  tlie  priest  told  Bonner  what  he  had  said,  and  he  took  the 
})Oor  lad  into  his  garden  and  thei'e,  with  a  rod  gathered  out  of  a 
cherry  tree,  "did  most  cruelly  whip  him."  Not  long  after  this, 
Thomas  Brice,  author  of  the  "Poetical  Register"  of  sufferers  for 
conscience'  sake  in  the  reign  of  Mar\',  was  driven  out  of  the  country, 
apparentl}^  from  this  neighborhood. 
 - 342 - 
THE    MOTHER-TOWN    OF    P.ILLEKICAY.  301 
Near  the  close  of  the  reign  of  Elizabeth,  Timothy  Okeley,  who 
had  succeeded  John  Okeley  as  vicar  of  Great  Burghstead,  was 
himself  succeeded  by  AYilliam  Pease,  who  remained  in  office  about 
fort}''  3'ears.  None  of  these  ministers  seem  to  have  sympathized 
with  evangelical  religion  ;  and  Pease,  in  particular,  made  it  uncom- 
fortable for  
all  his  parishioners  who  ventured  to  differ  from  him.  In 
March,  1619,  he  summoned  several  of  them  before  the  Archidiaconal 
Court  for  nonconformit}'.  Among  them  were  Solomon  Prower  and 
Christopher  JMartin,  Avho  were  officiall}'  "mouished"  with  the  rest, 
and  commanded  to  appear  again  in  a  month  to  be  examined  further. 
Prower  and  Mtirtin  fled  to  Leyden,  where  the  latter  liecame  a  member 
of  the  church  organi«;ed  ))_y  Jolm  Roliinson,  This  JNIartin  also  vict- 
ualled the  Mayflower,  in  which  lie  sailed  with  his  wife,  son,  and 
servant/  in  1(320,  for  New  England,  giving  Billericay  the  honorable 
distinction  of  having  furnished  four  out  of  the  one  hundred  and  one 
passengers  on  that  memorable  voyage.'*  They  were  followed  bv 
several  other  parishioners  of  Pease's,  among  whom,  in  1635,  are 
found  the  names  of  AVilliam  Ruse,  husbandman,  and  his  wife  Rebecca 
and  their  four  children,  Sarah,  Maria,  Samuel,  and  William.  Ralph 
Hill  and  William  Erench  are  supposed  to  have  come  about  this  time, 
and  it  was  probal)l3'  through  their  influence  that  the  name  of  their 
English  home  was  given  to  the  new  settlement  in  the  Massachusetts 
Colon}',  to  which  the}'  contributed  so  much  in  its  earl}'  days. 
The  limits  of  this  cha[)ter  will  not  allow  me  to  follow  the  fortunes 
of  the  mother-town  further.  Enough,  however,  has  been  said  to 
show  that  some  of  the  most  notable  events  in  English  history  are 
connected  with  the  name  of  Billerica,  a  name  which,  as  this  volume 
shows,  New  England  is  destined  to  transmit  with  equal  honor,  and, 
it  may  be,  with  equal  fame. 
"  Another  account  says,  wife  and  two  servants. 
8  Paper  read  by  Colonel  Joseph  Lemuel  Chester,  of  I^ondon,  before  the  Essex  Archreo- 
logical  Society,  at  Brentwood. 
 - 343 - 
CHAPTER   XX. 
MISCELLANEOUS    AND    FINAL. 
A  FEW  subjects  not  yet  noticed  must  be  grouped  in  a,  brief  and 
summary  wa}'.  Some  of  them  might  well  have  been  expanded  to 
cliapters  did  our  limits  permit.  It  would  be  a  subject  of  special 
interest,  to  gather  the  names  and  follow  the  fortnnes  of  many  who 
have  gone  from  Billerica  to  hoiiies  in  other  towns  and  States.  Many 
towns  in  all  parts  of  New  P^ngland  and  the  regions  beyond  may 
trace  the  lines  of  families  who  have  contributed  to  their  prosperity 
in  the  register  of  Billerica.  It  suggests  something  on  this  point 
to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  all  families  bearing  the  names 
of  Farley,  Farmer,  Jefts,  Kidder,  Kittredge,  Pollard,  Shed,  and 
Toothaker,  whose  lines  in  this  country  go  back  to  1700,  find  their 
American  progenitor  in  Billerica.  Not  less  numerous  or  important 
are  the  l)ranches  here  found  of  the  C'ros])y,  Danforth,  French,  Frost, 
Hill,  Manning,  Parker,  Patten,  Richardson,  Rogers,  Stearns,  and 
Whiting  families  ;  while  to  enumerate  the  significant  names  of 
families  simply  less  numerous  would  be  to  repeat  most  of  the 
names  from  the  pages  of  the  Genealogical  Register.  Any  just 
presentation  of  this  subject  would  develop  facts  of  which  the  town 
might  be  })roud.  She  has  never  been  populous:  but  her  sous  and 
daughtei's  al)road  are  man}'. 
The  list  of  Billerica  graduates  from  colleges  and  professional 
schools  is  as  follows:  —  ^ 
Abbot,  David.     II.  C,  1794.     (4.) 
Hlanchard.  Henry,  M.  D.     H.  C,  1834.     (11.) 
Bowers.  Andrew.     H.  C,  1779.     (3.) 
Bowers,  Kev.  Benjamin.     H.  C,  1733.     (1.) 
Bowers,  Benjamin  F..  M.  D.     Y.  ( '.,  1819.     (7.) 
1  The  numbers  refer  to  the  family,  in  (ieuealogical  Register,  where  the  record  is  given. 
 - 344 - 
MISCELLANEOUS    AND    FINAL.  303 
Bowers,  Rev.  James.     H.  C  1794.     (3.) 
Bowers,  Josiah.  Ji.  i>.     Y.  C,  181(i.     (7.) 
Bowers,  Josiah,  m.  d.     Philadelphia.  1854.     (9.) 
Bowers.  William.  M.  1).     II.  ('..  17G9.     (4.) 
Brown,  Rev.  Thaddeus  II.     ^^  ('.,  1860.     (Addenda.) 
Crosby.  Oliver.     IT.  C,  179ri.     (24.) 
Crosby,  Willia 111.     H.  C.  1701.     (21.) 
Cumings,  Henry.     II.  C.  1795.     (2.) 
Faulkner,  George,  M.  v.     II.  C,  1844.     (1.) 
Hill,  Josepli  F.     H.  C,  31.  D.,  1830.     (28.) 
Judkins.  Henry  B.     Law  Department,  H.  C.  1850.     (1.) 
Kidder,  Jonathan.     H.  C,  1751.     (10.) 
Kidder.  Rev.  Josei>]i.     Y.  C,  17(i4.     (7.) 
Lewis.  James.     I).  ('..  1807.     (7.) 
Parker.  Daniel.'  B.  C,  31.  D..  1833.     (23.) 
Parker,  Frederic  A.,  M.  D.     H.  C.  1813.     (22.) 
Patten.  Rev.  Abel.     I).  ('..  1S27.     (15.) 
Preston.  George  II.     H.  ('..  184().     (1.) 
Richardson,  Rev.  Joseph.     I).  ('..  1802.     (17.) 
Rogers.  Artemas.     II.  ('.,  1809.     (14.) 
Rogers,  Micajah.     H.  C,  1817.     (14.) 
Skilton.  Rev.  Thomas.     H.  ('..  1800.     (1.) 
Spaulding,  Rev.  Benjamin  A.     H.  C.  1840.     (6.) 
Stearns,  Rev.  Josiah.     H.  ('..  1751.     (5.) 
Stearns,  Rev.  Timothy.     A.  C,  1833.     (12.) 
Whiting,  Augustus.     H.  C.  1816.     (14.) 
Whiting,  Rev.  John.     H.  C,  1685.     (1.) 
Whiting.  Joseph.     H.  C  1690.     (1.) 
The  record  of  the  legiil  profession  in  Billerica  is  brief,  and  I 
know  of  no  names  to  be  added  to  the  list  of  1855.  {Bi-Centennial, 
p.  146.)  William  Crosby,  1800;  Samuel  Dexter;  Timothy  Farn- 
ham;  Joseph  Locke,  1801-33  ;  Marshall  Preston,  about  1820-49  ; 
George  H.  Whitman,  1849.  Of  course,  in  the  absence  of  lawyers 
who  were  such  by  profession,  other  well-informed  citizens  have  often 
been  called  to  aid  their  neighbors  in  legal  matters.  So  nmch  of  this 
service  devolved  upon  some  of  them,  that  practically-  it  would  be 
just  to  mention  in  this  connection  such  names  as  Jonathan  Danforth, 
Joseph  Tomiison,  Oliver  Whiting,  Joshua  Abbott,  William  Stickney. 
PHYSICIANS     IN     BILLEKICA. 
Atherton.  Benjamin.     *1739. 
Batchelder,  Josiah. 
Bickford,  Hezekiah.     1851-61. 
Bowers,  William.     +1820. 
Brown,  Thaddeus.     *1839. 
Bundy,  Frank  E.     1864-66. 
Danforth,  Timothy.     * 1 792. 
Foster,  Joseph.     *  1810. 
Frost.  Samuel.     *1717. 
Grey.  William. 
 - 345 - 
304                         HISTORY    OF   BILLERICA. 
Hill,  Joseph  F.     *  1S40. 
Hood,  J.  \y. 
Hosiiier.  Charles  E.     1874 — , 
Howe.  Zadok.     *18,")7. 
Hubbard,  AVllliam  H.     1877—. 
Hurd,  Isaac.     1778— (?). 
*in  Concord.  1844. 
Kittredge,  Jacob.    1800-15. 
Kittredge.  John.     *1714. 
Kittredge.  .lolm.     *17o(i. 
Kitti-edye,  Paifus, 
Lane,  Albert  C     1879—. 
Manning.    . 
Mason.  Augustus.     1844-.")4. 
*in  Brighton.  1882. 
Munroe,  George  A.     18(!G-77. 
Parker,  Daniel.     1840—. 
Toothaker,  Roger.     *1745. 
Toothaker.  Roger.     *1759. 
AVilkins.  William.     1789-1807, 
The  more  important  town  officers  have  been  as  follows  : — 
TOWN     CLERKS. 
John  Parker.     1G53-G4.  11 
William  Tay.     1664-65.  1 
Jonathan  Danforth.  1665-85.  21 
8anri  Manning.  1686-90.  '92.  '99.  7 
Joseph  Tompson.  10 
1691,  "93-98.  1700-2. 
John  Stearns.     1703-4.  2 
Oliver  Whiting.  170.)-11,  '14-23.  17 
John  Needham.     1712-13.  '1 
Benjamin  'i'ompson.  1724-26,  "30.  4 
Joshua  Abbott.  1727-29,  '31-56.  29 
Williaui  Stickney.     1757-68.  12 
Joshua  Abbot.    1769-80,  '82-84.  15 
William  Bowers.     1781.  1 
Oliver  Crosby.    1785-96,  1803-4.  14 
James  Abbot.     1797.  1 
Jacob  Richardson.     1798-1802.  5 
Blaney  Abbot.     1805-9.  5 
Jeremiah  I'atten.     1810-13.  4 
Jeremiah  Farmer.     1814-15.  2 
Samuel  Whiting.     1816-20.  5 
Marshall  Preston.     1821-48.  28 
John  Baldwin.     1849-55.  7 
Dudlej'  Foster.     1855 — . 
Lt.  William  French.     1663. 
Mr.  Humphrey  Davy.     1666-69. 
Mr.  Hezekiah  Usher.     1671-72. 
Mr.  Job  Lane.     1676.  '79. 
(?)  Jonathan  Danforth.     1685, 
Ralph  Hill.     1689,  "92-94. 
Joseph  Walker.     1689. 
Joseph  Tompson. 
1692  and  1(!99-1702. 
Sauuiel  Manning.     1695-97. 
Simon  Crosl)y.     1698. 
Thomas  Richardson.     1703-1. 
Lt.  John  Wilson.     1705. 
Lt.  John  Stearns.     1 706-15.  'IS. 
('?)  Capt.  John  Lane.     1707. 
Received  laud  for  "deputy  service. 
George  Brown. 
1716-17.  '21-24,  and  "27. 
Oliver  Whithig.     1719-20.  '28. 
R  E  P  R  E  S  E  N  T  A  T  I  ^•  K  S . 
John  Blanchard.     1725.  1 
Jonathan  Bacon.     1726.  1 
Williaui  Patten.     1729-30.  2 
Benjamin  Tompson.  12 
1731-38,  '42,  '45-46.  "48. 
Jacob  French.     1739-41.  3 
Enoch  Kidder.  14 
1743-44,  "52-55,  "58-65. 
Thomas  Kidder.     1747,  "49.  2 
William  Stickney.  17 
1750-."il,  '.")C.-r.7,  '(Ki-rO,  78-Tii. 
William  Tomps(m.     1777,  "87.  2 
Edward  Farmer.  1780-86.  "88-94.  14 
Jonathan  Bowers.  4 
1795-96,  '98,  1802. 
Oliver  Crosby.    1799-1801.1804.  4 
James  Abbot.     1803.  I 
John  Parker.     1805.  1 
Joseph  Locke.     1806-8,  '10,  4 
 - 346 - 
MISCELLANEOUS   AND   FINAL.                           305 
]           Samuel  FosliT.     1S40.                            1 
'.) 
Jolin  Eaines.     1S42-43.                        2 
2          Gardner  Parker.     ]S4(i, 
•49. 
2 
o 
Harvej'  Crosby.     1847. 
2          Reuben  Chamberlain.     1848. 
1          Thomas  Talbot.     1851. 
1          Henry  Eice.     1852. 
2          Daniel  Floyd.     IHoli. 
1 
1          Charles  II.' Hill.     18.54. 
Zenas  Herrick.     18.55. 
2          Dana  Holden.     1850-57                      2 
Dudley  AValker.     ISO!), 
.losiah  Cn.shy.  jr.     1810-17,  "20. 
Samuel  Whitiny.     1822-2;j. 
.lohn  Ualdwin.     1826-27. 
Marshall  Preston.     1820-;]U. 
Zadok  Howe.     1831. 
, losiah  Poji'ers.     1831. 
Thomas  Sumner.     1832-.3.'). 
:\lirliael  Crosby,  jr.     1834. 
J);iniel  Wilson.     1835. 
Henry  iJaldwin.     1837-38. 
Thomas  Spanlding-.     1831).  "41.        2 
The  town  was  iiot-rc[)rcsented  in  1797,  1824,  '25,  '28,  '36,  '44, 
I.'),  and  '.JO.  In  18.38  the  system  of  reprcseutiition  was  changed 
and  towns  gave  place  to  districts,  Mr.  Ilolden  being  the  first  repre- 
sentative of  
the  Twenty-Second  Middlesex  District.  Citizens  of 
Pjillerica  liavc  since  represented  the  district  as  follows  :  Cieorge  P. 
Elliott,  18G0-.G1  ;  Rev.  Jesse  G.  D.  Stearns,  18G4  ;  Dudley  Foster, 
1807  ;  Sylvester  S.  Hill,  1869  ;  Cieorge  H.  Whitman,  Kscf.,  1872  ; 
John  Knowles,  1875  ;  William  S.  Gleason,  1876  ;  p]beuezer  Baker, 
1881. 
8  E  L  E  C  J' M  E  N . 
.lohn  Parker.     IGRO-liC.  7 
Lt.  AV"'.  French.    1(:;GU-(')4.  70-73.    9 
l{all)h  Hill.  sen.     IGCU-dl.  2 
Thomas  Foster.  & 
1600-61,  '63-65,  '67-69. 
.  Jonathan  Danforth.  21 
1G60,  '65-68,  70-85. 
K'alphHlll.jr.     1661.   '64-94.  32 
Ceorge  Farley.  7 
1661-62,  '66-69,   '88. 
AV".  Tay.     1662.   '64-65.  3 
\V"'.  Hamlet.     1662-64.  3 
Christopher  Webb.     1663.  1 
James  Kidder.  8 
1666-67,  '()9-72,  '74-75. 
Simon  Crosby.  6 
1668,  'Sa,  '97-99.  1701. 
•Joseph  Tompson.  30 
KUiO-S"),  'S!M)1,  lG93-iri»2. 
Samuel  Manning.    1673,  '77-79,    18 
'82-90,  '92-94,  '96,  '99. 
John  French.     1674-76.  16 
'78-86.   '91.  1700-2. 
Job  Lane.     1676-77.  '79-81. 
Joseph  AValker.    1686-94,  1700. 
Xathaniel  Hill.     1686-87. 
Jacob  French.     1687. 
Thomas  Eiehardson. 
1688,  '91,  '94,  1704,  '09.  '18. 
John  Stearns.     1689-90,  '92, 
'Oo-O?,  1702-4,  '06-12,  '14-18,  '20. 
Oliver  Whiting.    1692,  '99, 1702, 
'04-11,  '14-20.  '22-23. 
John  Lane.    1693.  '96-1704,  '09. 
Lt.  John  Wilson. 
1696-97.  1703-4. 
Jonathan  Hill.     1698.  1700.  '08. 
James  Frost,  sr.     1698-99,  1705. 
John  Shed.     1700-1.  "05. 
John  Sheldon. 
1700.  '11-12,  '14-15. 
Enoch  Kidder. 
1703,  '06-07,  '10,  '15-17. 
Edward  Farmer.     1703,  '06-07. 
Joseph  Foster.     1705. 
Simon  Crosby,  jr.     1705-8. 
 - 347 - 
306                          HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
S:innirl  Hill.      17()S~11.  •i:{-14. 
MG-IS.  ••2;^-2().  '-IS-l'.). 
(Jcorg-e  Bi-owii.     1710-12. 
■14-20.  ■22-2().  '2!». 
.Inliii  XciMlhani.     1712-1.). 
Kpliniim  Kiddci-.     1712. 
'rhdiiiMs  Iioss.     1712. 
.loiiii  Hill.     171G. 
Jou''.  liacoii.     1719,  "27. 
J)iiniel  Kittredge.     171'.).  '2!)-;!l. 
'I'liomas  Baldwin.     171!i. 
William  Patten. 
1720.  '28-2r).  "28-;{0. 
Joseph  Davis.     1720. 
Sanuiel  Fiteh.     1721-22. 
Joseph  Stephens.     1721-22. 
Benj".  Toinpson.     1721-20. 
'28-30,  •■.V^-:\3,  '.-{O-yy,  '42-47,  '.M. 
Joshua  Abbot.     1724-2"). 
'27-20,  VJl-lS,  T)0-56. 
W"\  Manning.     1720. 
Josiah  Fasset.     1727-2S. 
lit.  Job  Lane.     1720-27. 
(ajjt.  Jon''.  Bowers.     1727. 
Sanuiel  Danforth.     17;50-:{1. 
•laeob  French. 
i730--;3i.  •;};{-4i.  •4s. 
Samuel  Hunt.  jr.     17;^1. 
John  Stearns.     1732,  '35. 
Andrew  liiehardsoh.     1732. 
Joseph  Kittredge.     1732-34. 
William  French.     1733-34. 
Benjamin  Shed.     1731-37.  "48. 
Enoch  Kidder,  ji'. 
1730-42.  '47.  "(il. 
Thomas  Kiddei-.     1738-40. 
•4!».  ■:)2.  '.-)r)-:)8.  'oo-oi. 
^V"'.  Stickney.     1740-42. 
■45,  '47.  ■rj3-08. 
Sanuiel  Hill.     1743-44. 
Samuel  lirown.     1743-44. 
Samuel  Whiting.     1745-40. 
Sanuiel  Sheldon.      1740. 
Ralph  Hill.     1747.  '49,  'o-V.Vi. 
Jacob  Walkci*.     1748-49. 
Jeremiah  Abboi.      I74.s. 
Ki,K(  r.Mi:x 
15 
10 
23 
28 
12 
17 
21 
-  Conthmnl. 
•Josiah  lirown.  5 
1749-50.  "57-58.  •02. 
^^'"'.  Manning,  jr.     1749.  1 
Oliver  Whiting.     1750-52.  3 
W'".  Kidder.     1750-52.  3 
AV"'.  \eedham.     1751-54.  4 
Benj".  Lewis.  1753-54,  '59.  3 
Joshua  Davis.    ]753-5(i.  '59-04.      10 
Capt.  Daniel  Stickney.  4 
1757-58.  'GO.  '62. 
Joshua  Abbot,  jr.  20 
i;."i7-G."),  '(ir-so,  •S2-S+. 
Isaac  Marshall.     1759.  1 
Joseph  Hill.     1703-05.  3 
David  Osgood.  17G3-(i4.  2 
W"'.'i'ompson.  1705-08.  '72-80.  13 
Samuel  Kidder.    17G5-()0,  '82-84.     5 
Isaac  Stearns.     17GG-72.  7 
John  Parker.     1766-80.   '82-84.  18 
Josiali  Bowers.     1709-70.  2 
Asa  Spaulding.     1709-71.  3 
Timothy  Danforth.  10 
1771-77.  '82-84. 
Keuben  Kendall.  9 
1773-70.  '78-79.  '82-84. 
Jonathan  Stickney.     1777.  '87.  2 
Hezekiah  ( 'rosby.  10 
1778-81.  "85-90. 
Kpbi'alm  (  rosity.  4 
1780-81.  "85,  '88. 
W'".  Bowers,  jr.     1781.  '85.  2 
Isaac  Marshall,  jr.  1781.  1 
James  Lewis.     1781,  '85,  "87-90.     0 
AVilliani  Manning.     1785-86.  2 
Oliver  Crosby.     1780-90.  15 
1800-1.  '03-04. 
Jacob  llichardson.  12 
178G-90.  179()-1802. 
Josiah  Bowers,  jr.     1780.  1 
Sears  Cook.  12 
1780-87.  1797-1805.  '07. 
Jonathan  Bowers.     1789-1)5.  7 
John  Farmer.     1791-96.  0 
J()hn  Parker,  jr.  8 
1791-95.  ■97-9S.  1SI)2. 
Peleillili.      1790.  1 
 - 348 - 
MISCELLANEOUS    AND    FINAL.                           307 
SKLECTM  EN.  —  Continued. 
Thomas  RicliJirdson.     17!>7.  1 
.Tallies  Abbot.     1797.  1 
.losiah  Crosby.     1798.  1 
Stt'jilicii  Barrt'tfc.  I 
1 7i)8-99.  1803-04. 
Isaac  HaiTon.     17!M)-l80r).  7 
Josiali  llo*i,('rs.  (i 
1791M800.  "08-1  0.  'U. 
Oliver  Richardson.    1801-0.").  '07.  0 
Bianey  Abbot.     1805-07.  ;{ 
.Ferciuinli  Patten.  ' 7 
1805-07.   '10-13. 
,l<"reiiiiah  Crosby.     180G-07.  "10.  .'{ 
Tiioinas  Spaulding.     180G.  1 
.losiah  Crosby,  jr.     1800,  '08-09.  3 
.Tosiiih  B.  Richardson.     1808-13.  (i 
John  Crosby.    1808-10,  '12-20.  12 
Josepli  Blanchard.    1808-10.  '12.  4 
Ainos  Carlton.     1811-13.  3 
.Fereiniali  Fanner.     1813-15.  3 
Isaac  Hard.     1814-15.  2 
.Joseph  .Taquitli.  jr.     1814.  1 
Samuel  AVhiting.     181 0-20.  5 
.rohn  Baldwin.     1810-20.  5 
Marshall  Preston.  25 
1821-40,  '42,  '45-48. 
.losiah  Rogers.    1821-23.  '31-32.  5 
Nathan  Mears.     1821-28.  8 
William  Richardson.     1821-23.  3 
Francis  Cook.     1821-23.  3 
.Jeremiah  C'rosby.     1824-25.  '51.  3 
Ichabod  Everett.     1820-30.  5 
James  R.  Faulkner.     1829.  1 
Michael  Crosl)y.     1830.  "33. 
John  Ricliardson.  2d.     1831-32. 
Se\\'aU  Stearns.    1833-40,  '43-44. 
Daniel  Wilson.     1834-38. 
Henry  Rice.     1839-42. 
Francis  Richardson.     1841. 
Reuben  Chamberlain.     1841-42. 
Cornelius  Sweetser.     1843-44. 
Samuel  Rogers.     1843-46. 
Jonathan  Hill.     1845-4G,  "48-.50. 
Dudley  Foster. 
1847-50,  "57-00,  "69-73.  "81. 
Wm.  H.  Odiorne.     1847.  '52-53. 
Gardner  Parker.  1849-.50,  "61-68. 
Benj.  L.  Judkins.     1851.  "56-()0. 
Caleb  S.  Brown.     1851-52. 
William  Blanchard.     1852-53. 
John  C.  Hobbs.    1853-54.  "56-59. 
Thomas  .1.  Jenkins.     1854-55. 
Edw.  Spaulding.     1854,  '74-79. 
Ainasa  Holden.     1855-56. 
Benjamin  H.  Heald.     1855. 
Israel  A.  Colson.     1860,  '69-73. 
Leander  Crosby.     1861. 
Joseph  Dows.     1861. 
William  S.  Gleason. 
1862-68,  '74-80. 
Charles  W.  French.     1862-68. 
David  L.  Mason.     1869-73. 
George  P.  Elliot.     1874-80. 
Coburn  S.  Smith.     1880-82. 
George  F.  Colson.     1881-82. 
Eben  Baker.     1882. 
Until  1824,  the  lunriber  of  selectmen  annuallj'  elected  was  five; 
except  ill  the'  years  1720  and  1815-16,  when  three  were  chosen,  and 
176(),  when  the  uuniher  is  foui-.  In  the  latter  case,  I  suspect  the 
omission  of  Joshua  Abbot's  name  is  accidental,  as  with  this  excep- 
tion he  
holds  the  office  continuously,  17.37-80. 
The  first  Post-Office  la  Billerica  was  established,  1797,  Octo- 
ber 7.-     The  Post-Masters  have  been:  — 
   1797,  Appointed. 
October  7. 
   1824,  May  26. 
Jonathan  Bow  ers 
William  Richardson  . 
2  
For  this  date,  and  the  list  whicli  follows,  I  am  indebted  to  the  Hon.  Abraliani  D. 
Hazen,  Tliird  Assistant  Postmaster-General.  • 
 - 349 - 
308  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
I\Iaisli;ill  Ticslon                                                                         1S2r,.  J;inu;uy  11. 
Juhii  I5:il(l\viii.  .Ii-                                                                                                                                     ISI!),  Octoh.-r  1(1. 
Williiiiu  II.  IJlnnclianl           IS.V).  .June  1 1 .
Williaiu  Ulaiichaid                                                                        1S.J7.  April  4. 
IJciijainin  L.  .Iiulkiiis               18.")9,  April  '11. 
Cliarlcs  11.  Pai-kci-                                                                                         1S(!2.  May  S. 
Ucniani  M.  (aim                                                                    IHdd.  ScpU-inhcr  21. 
I'raiiklin  .Ia(|uilli.  .Fr                                                                                                 ISO?,  -luly  1.'). 
Cliarlcs  II.  Parker                                                                      IS?.'?,  .Juiic  .i. 
NOKTIl    Hll.LKIvMCA. 
.Ti>s('pli  A.  Iiurl  .......  1S.")2.  .laiiiiary  26. 
.laiiii's  Kaulkncr  .......  IS.V).  .Inly  2(;. 
, lames  Wliittcmore                                                                    1S(>().  May  2r>. 
Hiram  <'.  IJrowii                   .  1S78,  Maivli  2.i. 
EA.ST   HII.I.EIUCA. 
IVter  B.  IJolioiiaii                                                                                             1877.  Deeeiiilier  21. 
SOITII    IIIKLKKICA. 
(ieor^-e  M'.  Hill                                                                                          1878.  March  4. 
JMary  E.  A.  Ml)l)y                                                                             1878.  Deeciiibcr  13. 
The  population  of  the  town  tit  dittereut  periods  is  u  subject  of 
interest,  but  tlie  material  for  estimates  at  first  is  scanty.  In  1051), 
there  were  '1')  lainilies  ;  four  years  later,  the  nunilier  had  nearly 
doubled,  judging  from  Mr.  AVhiting's  '■'•IJate,"  (p.  IGf)  above)  ;  but 
for  the  twelve  next  years  tliei-e  was  small  increase,  exceiit  as  cliildren 
multiplied  in  Hie  homes  ab'cad3'  f(iriiic(l.  (|).  li;!).  The  tax-list  for 
1()7!)  {{).  I'.i.'i)  has  only  17  names,  but  that  for  KI.S.S  has  7.'}  names, 
showing  that  a  new  impulse  had  followed  tiie  anxieties  of  Philip's 
War,  and.  in  spite  of  llie  Indian  perils  of  the  time,  tiie  progress 
continui'd,  and,  in    1707.  tiie   number  of  polls   was    110." 
The  tax-list  for  1 7.'5.")  includes  'li>>  names,  but.  in  17;!.j.  when 
Tewksbiir\-  had  been  taken  out,  the  number  was  only  1.S7,  which,  in 
I75;j,  had  increased  to  "iOti.  In  17C«r)  a  cai'eful  eimmeratiou  was 
made,  showing  for  the  first  time  the  exact  i)0[)ulation,  when  this 
town  had  l.'i.'iO.  ()nly  seven  towns  in  Middlesex  Coiuity  then 
exceeded  liillerica.  In  177('>  a  census  gave  Hillerica  a  population 
of  1500,  and  the  tax-list-  for  the  same  year  contained  'll'.i  names. 
In  177S  there  were  2.8(1  polls,  but,  in  1781,  they  had  fallen  to  271 
l)olls,  a  decrease  more  tliaii  explained  b\-  the  loss  of  the  Carlisle 
names,  in  17'S0.      Assuming  an  eciual  niimiier  of  polls  and  names  on 
('(illrilidiis  :    Ainvriaiti  Stiitiatirat  Assuciittioii,  pp.  1  
111,  1."jII,  etc. 
 - 350 - 
:\tisrE[.r,A\K()rs  am)  final 
:^09 
tax-lisl,  ;iii(l  Hint  tlu'  [)r(>[»(jrti(»ii  of  this  ihiiuIkt  to   the   wliolr 
latioii  in  177(1  was  tlic  saiiic  in  1().S7,  17o.'),  and    17.'),'),  we  read 
estimate  for  tlie  pei'iods  named,  the  decades  after  1  
7i)0  being  sn] 
l)y  the  United  States  C'ensns,  and  the  years  18;"),"),  l.ST),'),  and  IS 
the  State  Census. 
loss 
1707 
1 73;^ 
173.5 
1 75.5 
401 
170.5 
7(50          1 77(j 
12.-)2 
1700 
102S         ISOO 
ii;!l' 
isio 
1  
:{.'!•_' 
lS-20 
1.500         1830 
1101        1840 
i;{s;! 
1-_>S!)            1 850 
18,55 
i;!si) 
i;!(;8 
i(;;{2 
KMC. 
1772 
18(10 
18(j5 
1870 
1875 
ISSO 
pOJJU- 
;l   tllis 
)l)lied 
7,5  bv 
177(; 
1808 
1833 
1881 
2000 
Tlie  fart  is  signilieant  liiat  after  1800  tiiei'e  was  no  inereasi'  for 
more  than  thiity  years  ;  and  it  seems  to  conlii'in  tlie  opinion  that  tlie 
Middlesex  Canal,  by  preventing  the  use  of  the  water  power,  exerted 
an  unfavorable  intluence  upon  the  i)rogress  of  this  town.  A  similar 
result  has  followed  the  deflection  of  the  railroad  line  so  far  from  tlie 
centre  of  the  town. 
A  census  taken  in  17.54  brings  out  the  curious  fact  that  INIassa- 
chusetts  had  "2717  slaves.  Of  this  number  Billerica  had  eight,  of 
whom  five  were  females.  In  1880,  the  census  reports  nine  colored 
persons  ;    
but  the}'  are  not  slaves. 
(Jther  details  of  the  last  census  are  interesting,^  and  1  am  glad 
to  be  able  to  give  a  summary  of  them. 
The  2000  inhabitants  of  the  town  in  June,  1880,  were  grou|)ed 
in  449  families,  who  lived  in  43G  houses.  There  were  1(')G2  over  ten 
years  of  age,  of  whom  4(3  could  not  I'ead  and  .5()  could  not  write  ; 
of  the  latter,  ,51  were  foreigners.  The  nativity  stands  thus  :  Native 
I»orn,  15.52:    foreign,  448;    born  in  Massachusetts,  12.')7. 
New  Ilaiupsliin 
JMaiiie 
Veniiont 
New  York 
Maryland 
Virginia 
Illinois 
lihode  Island  . 
( 'oiineetieut    . 
IVnnsylvani.i 
New  Jersey    . 
33            Other  States 
7.3 
5(j               Biitisli  Anieii 
Ireland 
17 
England 
(> 
Scorlaiid 
fl                Wales 
4          Germanjr 
4          Sweden 
3       .   France 
2          Denmark 
1            Netherlands    . 
10 
('.7 
22(; 
118 
20 
■*  
Tlicsf  ligiii-es  I'nmi  the  C!eusus  of  USD  liave  been  kiiully  fiiriiislietl,  while  this  cliapter 
was  ill  the  printer's  hands,  by  Colonel  Carroll  D.  N\'riglit,  wlio  was  in  chaige  of  the  work  in 
3Iassacbusetts. 
 - 351 - 
310                          mSTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
Of  the  whok'  miinber  there  were  4(')  whose  mothers  only  were 
foreign  born  ;  i')2^)  whose  fathers  were  horn  in  Ireland,  and  of  485 
the  mothers  were  born  there  also  ;  246  whose  fathers  were  born  in 
Great  Britain,  and  the  mothers  also  of  191  ;  75  whose  fathers  w^ere 
born  in  British  America,  and  the  mothers  of  59.  The  whole  number 
whose  parents  were  both  foreign  born  was  807  ;  partly  foreign  liorn, 
121.     The  ages  are  as  follows  : — 
No.       Age.     No.     Age.    No.     Age.     No.     Age.     No. 
Age. 
No. 
Age.     No.     Age.     No. 
Age. 
No. 
Age. 
;i:j  ui 
del-  1 
•Zli 
1        38       11 
39 
21 
19 
31 
15 
41 
12 
51           7 
01 
;i 
71 
2 
81 
41 
'.' 
35 
12 
40       22        24       32 
23 
42 
10 
52 
14 
62 
13 
72        3 
82 
■M 
3       37       13        34 
23 
21 
33        20 
43 
12 
53 
12 
03 
6 
73 
6        83 
:t6                 4 
3(; 
14 
30       24 
14 
34 
10 
44        16 
54 
15       04         11 
74        4 
84 
3b; 
ij 
3i)         15 
31 
25 
30 
35 
39       45 
26      55 
17 
65 
4 
75 
2        85 
•ZH 
0       3(!         10        33       2C        32       3fi 
30 
40        19 
50 
11 
06 
10 
76 
2 
86 
US             7       44       17        27       27        19 
37 
24 
47        18       57 
12 
07 
12 
77 
1 
87 
44             s 
43       18        23      28 
27 
38 
21 
48        11 
58 
13 
68          : 
78 
1         88 
i!8                 y       37 
IVt 
32 
29 
24       39        19 
49 
20       59          8 
(;9 
?, 
79 
1        89 
41 
10 
3<»          20 
33 
30        43 
40 
49 
50 
21 
00 
IS 
70 
5 
80 
22 
379                    384                 322                 253                262                 171 
127 
80 
2000 
The  State  Census  for  1875  gi^^es  the  farming  statistics  in  a  more 
full  and  satisfactory'  form  than  the  National  Census,  and  from  that 
source  I  gather  the  following  : — 
The  value  of  the  farm  products  is  given,  $150,652,  which  includes 
2178  tons  hay,  11,187  lbs.  butter,  50  lbs.  cheese,  19,279  gallons  of 
cider,  2171  cords  of  wood,  5500  pairs  of  shoes,  17,558  bushels  of 
apples,  550  of  peaches,  645  of  pears,  360  of  plums,  68  of  cherries, 
1018  of  tomatoes,  19,622  of  potatoes,  1018  of  onions,  1409  of  peas, 
1571  quarts  of  strawberries,  891  of  blueberries,  and  617  of  black- 
berries ;  
10,150  lbs.  of  beef,  2182  lbs.  of  dressed  chickens,  I.'IS!)  of 
turkey,  220,835  gallons  of  milk,  and  10,222  dozen  of  eggs  ;  number 
of  horses,  325,  and  of  cows,  541.  The  219  farms  included  3948 
acres  of  improved  and  8751  acres  of  unimproved  land.  The  A-alue 
of  all  the  land  and  buildings  was  $816,725;  of  all  farm  property, 
$921,724;  the  valuation  of  personal  i)ropert3',  $651,662;  of  real 
estate,  $971,761  ;  or  a  total  valuation  of  $1,623,423  ;  total  products, 
$1,439,262. 
 - 352 - 
MISCELLANEOUS    AND    FINAL. 
J'AltM    I'lIOI'KirrY   OF   Bll,LKi;i(  A. 
811 
Farms. 
I'uder  ;>  acreis    
From  :i  to  .5  acres 
Fi'oui  0  to  10  acre- 
Above  10  acres.  .      . 
Building 
Houses   
Bants    
Shefls   
Carriage  houses.. 
Shops   
Stables   
Corn  cribs   
Cider  mills    
Slaugliter  house... 
Ice  houses   
Out-buildings    
Land. 
Land  under  crops,  acres..   . 
-Market-gardens,  acre.s   
Xurscrles,  acres   
(trehards  (the  land)  acres. 
L'nimpro\fd  hiiul,  acres..  . 
L  iiimprovablc  land,  acres. 
WoodUind,  acres    
Fruit  Trees  and  ^■ine.s 
Apple  trees    
Cherry  trees    
<  
Irab-apple  trees   
Pear  trees        
No. 
4 
I'.m 
12 
:!L".t 
.■!,C.:!8 
rs 
.j,03,'i 
l-!,r)y9 
14,-lsst 
i 
\,S7i 
^'aluc. 
$816,: 
$•207,2(1(1 
llit.OL'll 
$42T,:W1 
#ir.,7i: 
'.»5 
4 
2,oti5 
1' 
Fruit  trees  not  designate! 
( irape  \  ines   
Domestic  Animals. 
Uees  (swarms  of)   
Bulls 
Calves 
Colts 
Dogs 
Ducks 
Geese 
Goats 
Guinea  fowls    
Heifers 
Hens  and  chickens    
Hogs 
Horses 
.^lilch  cows   
Oxen 
Pea  fowls   
Pigeons      
i'igs 
Sheep,  merino   
Sheep 
Steers 
Turkeys 
Aggregates. 
Land 
Buildings    
Fruit  trees  and  vines   
Domestic  animals   
Agricult. implements  in  use 
No. 
125 
(J,S«!) 
21 
11 
140 
la 
12 
17 
IKi 
5,074 
1S7 
2:J7 
4(;5 
12 
47 
Value. 
$125 
flS5 
51Ci 
l,2s;i 
l,5il4 
.>!0 
4 
21 
4 
12 
1,8711 
:',,2(H 
:!,.'!1;5 
27,822 
l(i,'.)74 
1,(KM) 
:io 
15 
l,:;CiK 
01 
14 
1,144 
(18 
f01,103 
$427,:!('.1 
:i8!l,."Ci4 
2;!,TS2 
(;i,io:; 
20.114 
*il2l.724 
The  census  of  l.SSO  oives  this  record  of  inainifactures  in  Billerioa  : 
Number  of  estabUshments,  (inchuling  woolen  flannels,  2,  slaughtering- 
and  meat-packing,  1,  machinery,  2,  blacksmithing,  1,  d.ye  stuffs,  1, 
glue,  1,  wheelwrighting,  1,  vinegar,  1,)  11  ;  hands  employed,  282; 
capital  invested,  $r)70, ;')<)()  ;  value  of  i)roduct,  S;'^o4,44()  ;  wagi-s  paid 
(one  year),  $110.3-14. 
The  occupations  of  the  people  are  thus  repoi'ted  :  Wovien  — 
Housewives,  .')82  ;  domestics,  40  ;  nurse,  1  ;  teachers,!;');  teacher 
of  music,  1  ;  dressmakers,  5  ;  operatives,  woolen-mill,  CS  ;  opera- 
tive, hosiery,  1;  total,  olT.  Men  —  Clergymen,  G;  lawyer.  1; 
l)hysicians,  3  ;  actor,  1  ;  teachers,  2  ;  chemists,  '> ;  domesiics,  2  ; 
nurse,  1  ;   boarding-house  kec[)er,  1  ;   dealers  in  fish,  2  ;   butclicrs,  3  ; 
 - 353 - 
312                          HISTORY    OF    T^ILLEUICA. 
grocers,  6  ;    clerks  in  stores,  1  ;    railroad  ciii})loyees,  10  ;    teamsters, 
6  ;   
telegraph  employees,  1  ;   salesman,  1  ;    peddlers,  2  ;    milkmen,  2 
merchants,  lumber,  3  ;    
do.,  drugs  and  medicines,  1  ;    manufacturing 
company  official,  1  ;    
insurance  official,  1  ;    agent,  I  ;    gardeners,  2 
f\irm  laborers,   117;    farmers,   103;     stock  herder,   1  ;    hostlers,  2 
tiorist,  1  ;    
logwood-mill,   7 ;    chemical  works,  S  ;    pianomakers,  2 
building  mover,  1  ;    gluemaker,  1  ;    machinists,  10;    shoemakers,  7 
printer,  1  ;   painters,  7  ;   masons,  6  ;   carpenters,  22  ;    cabinetmakers, 
3  ;    
l»lacksmiths,   7 ;    
baker,   1  ;    woolen-mill  operatives,   90  ;    wheel- 
wright, 1;     upholsterer,  1  ;    paper  hanger,  1  ;    marble  and  stone  cut- 
ters, 3;  iron  foundry  operative,  1  ;  gold  and  silver  worker,  1  ;  dyers, 
bleachers,  and  scourers,  12  ;  builder  and  contractor,  1  :  brass  founder 
and  worker,    1  ;    medical  student,   1  ;    apprentice,   1  ;    engineei-,   1  ; 
manufacturers,  7;    laborers,  55;    laborer  in  store,  1. 
These  facts  and  figures  from  the  census  may  be  fitly  su})pl('mente( 
by  the  list  of  voters  in  1<S80,  as  follows  : — 
Alexander.  Frank 
Alexiimlcr.  .louiis 
Alexaiuler,  .losepli 
Alexander.  X<)l)le  D. 
Alexander.  Watson 
Averill.  Mark 
Bailey,  John  B. 
Baker,  Eben 
Baker.  John  IT. 
Baldwin.  Joe) 
Baldwhi,  Joel  W. 
Biildwin.  Sanuiel  W. 
Barker.  Hiram  P. 
Barrett.  .John 
Barrett.  Jolni.  jr. 
Bartlett.  Franli 
Batbrick.  Walter 
P.e:ieli.  butlier 
Beard.  Sylvester  E. 
liennink.  (ierrit  II. 
Blake.  ( 'iiarles 
Blanehard.  NVilliani 
Blodj-ett.  Joseph  F. 
Blood.  Leonard 
Bohonan,  I'eter  B. 
Bottonily,  Allen 
Bottondy.  .John  F. 
Bowers.  ^Mhert 
Bowers,  Bradley  V. 
Bowers.  Geori^c 
Bowers,  'i'honias  I*. 
liownian.  Fben(>zer 
Bowman.  Francis 
Bowman,  (ieor^'e  II. 
Bi'adley.  James 
BradN'v.  William  (". 
Brady.'  William  (i. 
Brann,  Ali)heus  ( '. 
Brlcket,  AVilliam 
Brown.  Alfred 
Bro\\n,  Benjamin 
Bi-own.  Daniel  A. 
Brown,  Fdwln  1'. 
Brown.  Hiram  < '. 
Bruce,  Jasper  T. 
Bruce,  Nathaniel  F. 
Brvaiit.  Lorinn'  ( i. 
BuVkley,  Johi'i 
Buckley,  Lawrence 
("all,  Josei)h  II. 
Call.  Bol)ert 
( 'allahan.  Daniel 
( 'allahan.  John 
( 'arne.  John 
( 'ame,  AVilliani 
( 'aniphell.  Saiiniel 
(  ann.  l?einard  M. 
Carter.  (ieori;e  K. 
Casey.  Frederic 
( 'asey.  ISIatliew 
<  base.  Seward  S. 
(  hoate.  William  II. 
Bowman,  Clarence  A.       Clewly,  William  J. 
Clough,  IMoza  A. 
Cobb.  (;eoroe  H. 
Cold),  Mason  F. 
<'ol)l).  Nathaniel  L. 
Coll'ey.  Charles 
( 'olby.  Foster  K. 
Coll)V,  Harlow 
Coll/y,  Homer  IT. 
((  'olhy.  .lonathaii 
'ole.  Sanuiel 
Collins,  Alfred  S. 
Collins.  Charles  A. 
( 'ollins.  Thomas  K. 
( 'olson.  (Jeoryt'  l'\ 
( 'olson.  Israel  A. 
( 'onnelly.  John 
<  
'onway.  ^Marlin 
Cook.  Sears  J. 
Cook.  Sheldon  ^V. 
Corliss,  Charles  O. 
Costello,  Fdv\ai(l 
( '()st(dlo,  Thomas 
( 'ouij,hlin.  Cornelius 
Coulter.  Huiih 
<  
'owdrey,  Francis  1>. 
( 'owdrey.  (;ran\  ille 
( 'owdrey.  Marcus  iM. 
Cowdre}-.  Silas 
('owdrey.  Silas  H.  V 
Crawford,  John  C. 
Crawford,  liohei-t 
Cray.  Amos 
Crosby.  Benjamin  F. 
 - 354 - 
MISCELLANEOUS    AND    P^NAL.                            313 
(Ji-osby,  Friiiii'is  L. 
Ci-osby.  Frank  W. 
Crosby.  Geori>-c  C. 
C'rosby,  Henry 
Crosby,  John 
Crosby,  Leander 
Crowley.  Timothy 
Ciirrj-,  James  H. 
Dane.  Alden  O. 
Davis.  Augustus 
Day,  James 
Dehnag<\  Jolni 
D<'hna,<i('.  Hobei't 
Dicliinson.  Edward  F. 
Dickinson.  Fredericlc 
Doherty.  Edward  li.  _ 
Dolan.  Peter 
Donovan,  James 
Doyle,  James  W. 
Dudley.  Frederick  IT. 
Duren.  Daniel  K. 
])uren.  Henry 
Duren.  Henry  \V. 
Dutton.  Henry  A. 
Dutton,  Hiram  E. 
Eaton,  AN'iiliam  A. 
F:iliott.  (Jeorgc  l\ 
EUis.  JauK's 
F:ssex.  John  \V . 
Fairbrother,  (Jcorge 
Fairl)rotlier.  \\'illiam 
Farrell,  .fames 
Fauleon.  John 
Fauleon.  F/ittlcton 
Faulkner.  James  N'. 
Faulkner.  Euthrr  W . 
Faulkner.  Kichard 
Fay,  John 
Fellows.  Aitliur 
Fellows.  Theophilus  B. 
Fisk.  John 
Fisk.  John  L. 
Fitz,  Patrick  J. 
Flanders.  Charles  W. 
Fletcher.  Frank  T. 
Fletcher.  Janu's 
Fletcher,  John  S. 
Fletcher.  Nathan 
Fletcher.  William  E. 
Floyd.  Daniel 
F'oster,  Dudley 
Foster.  Nathaniel  D.  P 
French,  Fredeiick  S. 
Fuller,  Fredci-ick  P. 
Fuller,  Olin  Iv. 
Fuller,  William  A. 
Fuller,  ^Villiam  H. 
(iaimon.  .lolm 
Gannon,  Lawrence 
Cannon.  Lawrence  1>. 
Gattcr.  Frederick 
Gibbs.  John 
Gilbert,  Hctijamin  J. 
Gleason.  Philip 
(ileason,  \Villiam  S. 
Gorham.  Charles  E. 
Gorham.  John  J. 
Gould.  Joseph  D. 
Grao-g.  (Jeorge  W. 
(ireen.  Josei)h  W. 
(ireenwood.  (ieorge 
(Jreenwood.  Moses  P. 
(ireenwood.  William  H. 
Grimes.  Elmer  A. 
Guinnee.  William 
Hall.  George 
Haul.  Cyrus 
Ham.  Foster 
Handley.  Andrew 
Hannat'ord.  (  harles  N. 
Hannafoi-d.  Ira  X. 
Hannaford.  Waldo 
ILnmon.  F^lias 
Harding.  Oliver  M. 
Harnden.  (ieorge  F. 
Harnden.  Joshua 
llarrigan.  .John  F. 
Harrington.  Hiram 
Harrington.  John 
Harringlon.  John.  jr. 
Ilai-rington.  Michael 
Harrington.  Timothy 
llanington.  Zadock 
Hart,  'hiomas  S. 
Haskell.  John 
Haulton.  James 
Haidton.  John 
Hayden.  Howard  E. 
Hayes,  Micliael 
Hazen.  tleiny  A. 
Heald,  Benjamin  H. 
Henchclitl'.'joscph 
Hennessey.  Marllu 
Derrick.  Geoige  P. 
Higgiiis.  Thomas 
11  iU.  Charles  H. 
Hill,  Charles  IL.  jr. 
Hill.  Frederu-k  P'. 
Hill,  George  H. 
Hill.  Paul 
Hill.  William  W. 
llolden.  (4eorge  X. 
Flolden,  I.  Newton 
llolden.  Josephus 
Holden,  Lewis  H. 
Holden,  Logeue  N. 
Holden.  Warren 
Holt,  Jose]ih  S. 
H(dt,  Watson  A. 
lloi'ner.  William  J. 
llosmer.  Charles  E. 
llosmer.  Leander 
Howe,  Philander  D. 
Howley.  John 
Hubbard,  William  A. 
Huntlev.  John 
Hurst.  "Charles  T. 
llussey.  Christopher  C. 
llutchins.  Benjamin  C. 
Hutchius,  Jason  K. 
llutchins.  Whitney 
llutchins.  William 
Irish.  Thomas 
Jaquith.  Franklin 
Jaciuith.  .JosejJi 
Jacpiith.  Merrick 
Johnson.  Austin 
Johnson.  Lewis 
Jones.  Anthony 
Judkins,  Henry  P.. 
Kearney,  Bernard 
Keating,  Thomas 
Kershaw.  Boltert 
Keycs.  John 
Kimball,  (ieorge  A. 
Kimball,  Ichabod  (i. 
Kiud)all,  Sanuud 
King.  Herbert  A. 
King.  Sauuiel  IL 
Kittredge.  <  liarles 
Kittredge,  John 
Knowles.  John 
Kohlrtiusch.  Charles  H. 
Kohlrausch.  (  has.  IL.  jr, 
T^eonard.  (ieorge 
Leonard.   (ieorge  A. 
Livingston.  Everett  W. 
L()rd.  Edward 
Lothroi).  Put'us. 
Lovejoy.  James  A. 
Lund.  'Charles  W. 
Lund.  Mark 
Lyons.  Charles 
Lyons.  Daniel 
Ij^ons.  Thomas 
Joyous.  William 
Mackay,  Haslet 
IMahoney,  Jerry 
Mallinson.  Frederick 
Manning.  Asa  P. 
Mannin"'.  Edwin 
 - 355 - 
3U                     HISTORY    OF    lilLLF<:i!lCA. 
Maimiiiii'.  .Jiimcs  \V. 
Miiiiiiin,i;\  Jesse 
JMnuuiui;'.  Wjirrcii 
Miii'sl.oii.  Amos 
Miirston,  <  harlcs 
Mason.  l)a\i(l 
Mason,  David  L. 
Mason.  FiccU'ikk  Tj. 
^Nlaxwoll,  (ieorg'p 
Maxwell,  James 
Max\v('ll.  Stewarh 
Maxwell.  'I'liomas 
Mavnanl,  Aaron 
:\[(('aithv.  J^iniek 
McElli.i;i")tt.  Morris 
MeElligott.  Thomas 
MeGlone.  Micliael 
Melntire.  William  S. 
Mclvee,  llenrv 
MeNiiltv.  Miehael 
MiPhee".  Hu.oli 
Meelian.  John 
Meehan.  Patrick 
Merriam.  Jolin  A. 
Merriam,  .losiah  IF. 
Merriam.  Minot 
^Nleiriam,  William  A. 
Mills,  (ieorg'e 
Mills.  John  R. 
Mitchell.  Moses  ( '. 
Morey,  Frederick  A. 
Morris.  Charles  E. 
Morris.  Munroe 
Mugford.  Hiram 
Mullen.  Thomas 
Muni-oe,  Archelaus  S. 
Munioe.  llenrv  T. 
Munroe.  f)tis  A. 
Murningham.  Owen 
Muri)hy.  Dennis 
Muri)hy.  John  F. 
Muri)hy.  Michael  \V. 
Nason.  Elia.s 
Nason.  Paid 
Newliall.  Howard 
Xewhall.  Isratd 
Noyes.  Francis  ^'. 
0"Donnel,  Morris 
f)'lveete.  Dennis 
Olney.  Horace 
Osgood.  Samuel 
Page,  Ambrose  F. 
Page.  James 
Parker,  ("harles  H. 
Parker.  Daniel 
Parker.  Frank 
Parker,  Gardner 
I'arsons.  (Jeorge  >\'. 
Paslio.  Aaron 
Pasliii.  (Jardnei-  jS. 
PasliD.  (ieorge 
Paslio.  Jose|ih 
Patten.  Thomas 
I'atten.  William  H. 
I'errin.  'I'liomas  E. 
Perry.  Ahishai  S. 
Perry,  Josiah 
Perry.  Pichard 
Pillshnry.  Sanniel  f.. 
Porter.  <  
'liarh's  H. 
Preston.  Edward 
Proctor.  ^Varren  A. 
Proudfoot.  (reorge 
Proudfoot.  William 
Putney.  Foster 
Putney.  Herbert 
<^)uinn.  liei-iiai'd 
Kichardson.  All)ert  P. 
Richardson.  Charles  Tv. 
Kichardson.  Edward 
Kichardson,  Fi'ancis  E. 
Kichardson,  George  W. 
Kicliardson.  JohnO. 
Kichardson.  Josej)!!  W. 
Kichardson.  Josiah 
Kichardson,  Josiah.  2d. 
Kicliardson,  Nathan  A. 
Kichardson.  Thomas  K. 
Kilej'.  John 
Kiley.  John,  2d. 
Kih'v,  John.  ;jd. 
KileV.  I'atrick 
Kiley.  William 
Kipley.  William  F. 
Kivers.  Anthony  C. 
Kogers,  Oliver  C. 
Kogers.  Oliver  W. 
Kolllns,  Alden 
KoUins.  Valentine 
Kosenthal.  Henry 
Kowell.  John  K. 
Kussell.  Jonas 
Kussell.  Kufus  K. 
Sanborn.  Hugh  yi. 
Sanborn.  William  F. 
Schotield.  .losejih 
Searles.  George  W. 
Seaver.  Charles  H. 
Shea,  John 
Shed.  Daniel 
Shed.  Warren 
Sheldon.  Herbert 
Sheldon.  Orin 
Simouds.  Thomas 
Sladeti.  Alfred  JJ. 
Smith.  ( 'ol)urn  S. 
Smith.  Edgar  E. 
Spaulding.  Aliel 
Spaulding.  JJenjamin  E. 
Si)aulding.  Edward 
Spaulding.  Edward.  2d. 
Spaulding.  (iardner  E. 
Spaulding.  (iecjrge  H. 
Sitauldiiig.  Thomas 
Splain.  Daniel 
Sprowl.  William 
Stackpole.  Charles  H. 
Stackiiole.  Isaac  K. 
Stanhope.  David 
Stanton,  Albert  D. 
Stanton.  Henry  B. 
Stearns,  Albert 
Steai'iis.  Cliauncey  C, 
Franklin 
John  B. 
Josejih 
Sewall  H. 
William 
James  P. 
Stearns, 
Stearns, 
Stearns, 
Stearns, 
Stearns, 
Stewart 
Stone,  Albert 
Stone,  Jonas 
Stott,  James 
Stott.  Kobert 
Sullivan.  John 
Sutclitl'.  James 
Sntclitt".  John  T. 
TaU)ot.  Charles  K. 
Tall)ot.  Thomas 
Temple.  Henry  W. 
Trull.  AIi)lieus  X. 
Tucker,  Samuel 
Tutts,  Alfred 
Tufts.  Joseph  B. 
'I'uttle,  Samuel  E. 
Undei-liill.  Kufus  K. 
AVelch.  Jeremiah 
AVhaleii.  Martin 
Whiting.  William 
Whitman.  (Jeorge  H. 
AVhittemore.  James 
^Viggin.  Frank 
Wiley,  Stephen  P. 
Wilslui.  Charles  H. 
Wilson,  (ieorge  W. 
Wilson.  Mark  K. 
Wilson.  Weston  W. 
^Vilson,  'William 
Winter.  Samuel  E. 
\Viiglit.  Jackson 
Wrigiit.  Josiah 
>\'right,  Williaiu  C, 
 - 356 - 
 - 357 - 
r.KNNKl  1     I.I1!I!A1!V 
 - 358 - 
MISCELLANEOUS    AND    FINAL.  315 
'•The  following  list  is  the  nnines  of  woiin'U  who  have  u[)plie(l  to 
be  registered  to  A'ote  for  school  eoinmittee  "  ;  which  a  law  recentlj' 
enacted  authorized  them  to  do.  As  the  historian  is  not  a  prophet, 
it  is  not  his  business  to  predict  whether  the  number  of  women  wdio 
desire  this  opportunity  will  increase  or  (hminish. 
Baldwin.  Elizabeth  ('.  Gould.  Elvira  11.  Kogers.  Harriet  B. 
Bryant.  Mary  F.  Gragg.  Mary  E.  Sage,  Martha  H. 
Cole.  Mary    '  Hussey.  Lydia  C.  Salter.  Hannah  L. 
Faulkner.  Fannie  A.  Hussey.  Martha  S.  Tall)Ot,  isalx'lla  W. 
Faulkner,  Lois  E.  Jaquith.  Abigail  Talbot.  Isabella  White 
Faulkner.  Martha  W.  Morey.  Mary  C.  Tucker.  Annie  tJ. 
Foster,  Mary  F.  Rogers,  Ami  F. 
Libraries.  Mr.  Farmer  mentions  the  first  "Social  Library"  in 
Billerica  instituted  in  1772  and  one  of  the  earliest  in  Massachusetts, 
and  a  Second  Social  Library  was  incoi'porated  in  1807.  One  of 
these  libraries  apparently  became  the  property  of  the  First  Parish, 
and  the  other  of  a  Ladies'  Sewing  Society  ;  and  for  many  years  they 
have  been  kept,  practically  united,  in  a  room  of  the  First  Church,  in 
the  care  of  Miss  Sarah  Annable  as  librarian,  who,  in  187G,  reported 
seven  hundred  volumes.  These  have  noAv  passed  to  the  custody  of 
the  new  library. 
It  had  long  been  felt  that  the  provision  for  the  needs  of  tlie 
town  in  this  respect  was  inadequate  ;  and  in  1880  the  generous 
munificence  of  Mrs.  Joshua  Bennett  laid  the  foundation  for  their 
better  supply.  The  handsome  building,  of  which  we  give  a  good 
illustration,  standing  just  north  of  the  First  Church,  has  been 
erected  at  her  expense  and  deeded  to  the  Bennett  Public  Library 
Association  ;  and  her  daughters,  Mrs.  Holden  and  Mrs.  Warren, 
have  contributed  $2000  to  its  furnishing  and  the  purchase  of  books, 
a  good  beginning  for  the  growth  which  time  may  be  expected  to 
bring.  A  fee  of  five  dollars  is  received  for  membership,  and  twenty- 
five  dollars  constitutes  a  life  member  of  the  association  ;  ])ut  the  use 
of  books,  without  other  privilege,  is  granted  for  the  annual  payment 
of  one  dollar.  The  building  contains  a  lil)rary,  with  capacity  for 
ten  or  twelve  thousand  volumes,  which  ma^'  be  doubled  l)y  the  use 
of  alcoves  ;  a  reading-room,  a  committee-room,  and  a  handsome 
entrance  hall  and  cloak-room.  The  reading-room  is  ornamented 
with  a  wide  fireplace  and  beautiful  mantel  of  unique  design,  contrib- 
uted l)y  
AVilliam  W.  Warren,  Es(i.,  and  the  front  of  the  building  is 
enriched  b}-  a  fine  rose-window,  the  gift  of  Mr.  Joshua  Iloldeu. 
Mr.  William  H.  Osboru,  of  New  York,  also  gave  the  lot  on  which 
 - 359 - 
310  inSTOi;V    OF    hlLLKiaCA. 
the  liI)r!UT  wtjuids.  Tlic  town  owes  miicli  to  ]\Ii's.  IJiMiiU'tt  und  iief 
fauiily  lor  this  timely  uiid  good  Ibundatioii.  Jt  must  I'xcrt  a  stinui- 
lating  iiirtiieiice,  and  give  Ji  more  gt'iicrotis  ciiltui'c  to  the  eoniiiig 
generations  who  shall  enjoy  its  privileges;  and  will  contril)nte  nuich 
to  the  prosi)erity  and  attractiveness  of  tiie  town. 
A  similar  service  has  been  rendered  at  North  liiUeiica  by  the 
Messrs.  Talbot  ;  althongh  the  library  which  tliey  have  fonnded  is 
intende<l  primarily  I'or  their  own  employees,  and  its  management  is 
in  their  hands  ;  l)ut  its  nse  for  a  small  fee  is  ojjcn  to  all.  Tliey 
erected,  in  1880,  a  bnilding  connectt'd  with  tlieir  factory,  shown  in 
the  ilhistration  as  :i  front  wing,  the  second  story  of  wliich  is  devoted 
to  the  lil)rar3'  and  reading-room.  It  is  sn[)plie(l  witli  nioi'e  than  a 
thonsaud  volumes,  a  number  which  will  be  incieased  and  well  used 
under  the  judicious  care  of  the  Talbot  Lil)rai-v  Association. 
It  is  proper  that  record  be  made  here  of  two  historical  incidents. 
In  1855  the  town  formally  and  fitly  celebrated  the  two  hundredth 
anniversary  of  its  foundation.  The  Rev.  Joseph  Richardson,  of 
Hingham,  a  lo3'al  son  of  the  town,  gave  a  historical  oration,  which 
was  published,  with  other  proceedings  of  the  da}",  in  a  valnaltle 
l)aniphlet.  That  celebration  had  no  little  influence  in  awakening  and 
stinudating  the  interest  in  the  earl}^  life  of  the  town,  which  has  found 
expression  in  its  repeated  later  action,  looking  to  the  publication  of 
this  volume  and  providing  for  it. 
A  similar  event  was  the  celebration  held,  187(),  July  4.  The 
centennial  year  of  the  United  States  natural!}-  awakened  renewed 
interest  in  historical  sulyects  and  led  to  many  local  connnemorations. 
The  Rev.  Iiilias  Nason  responded  effectively  to  an  invitation  of  citi- 
zens to  
give  a  historical  oration  in  Billerica  ;  and  the  day  will  be  long 
remembered  by  those  who  shared  in  the  festivities  in  the  beautiful 
grove  southeast  of  the  middle  bridge.  This  oration  also,  with  other 
record  of  the  da}',  has  been  published. 
Some  of  the  Indian  names  freciuently  mentioned  in  this  volume 
suggest  an  interesting  question  of  their  meaning.  This  (jnestion, 
rather  than  hazard  conjectures,  I  have  submitted  to  the  Hon.  J.  H. 
Trumbull,  of  Hartford,  Connecticut,  the  onl}-  living  man  who  can 
read  Eliot's  Indian  r)ible,  and  who  is  recognized  as  the  highest 
authority  as  to  the  meaning  of  Indian  words.  He  writes  under  date, 
5  May,  1882:  — 
 - 360 - 
MISCELLANEOUS    AND    FINAL.  317 
••  PiDrinrkct  sig'uities  -at  the  falls."  (set'  Iinlinn  Aiimcs  in  Cdiuircliriif. 
p.  4!)).  Wnmesit  (Waiiicsiir.  Eliot)  is  "at  the  bottom  of  tlie  fall";  litcially. 
-at  tlie  going  down."  So  Kliot  locates  it  :  •\Vaiiu'siit  .  lyeth  at  the  hottoiii 
of  the  Riiici-  Mcrymak."  (Brief  Xdrrativc.  1670.)  (Jookin  says,  'wlierc 
Concord  riiicr  fallcth  into  Mcfiuiack  i-iiicr."  'I'iic  same  name  occnrs  in 
Khodc  Island,  as  WampmesHnrh.  \h'\u\\  the  falls  on  Pawtuxct  liivcr;  and 
Woovsockct  is  another  derivative  fi'oni  the  same  loor. 
••  Shair.shiii  has  lost  an  initial  syllable  or  a  single  obsenre  consonant. 
]»robal)ly  m  or  //.  (i.e.  v'slutii  or  Di'fihuii)  \  i)ossil)l}'  some  other  sound.  It 
has  no  meaning  in  the  form  in  Avhich  it  comes  to  us.  If  I  were  familiar 
with  the  topography  of  the  township.  I  think  tlie  name  would  interpret 
itself;  but.  as  I  am  not.  I  will  not  hazard  a  guess.  Xor  can  I  confidently 
give  the  signification  of  Naticook  or  Naticott.*'  In  a  later  note,  he  adds: 
••That  there  is  any  al&nity  between  the  name  C'oimerticut  antl  Xaticot  or 
Naticook  is  Iiighly  improbable.  Such  aliinity  can  not  be  established  unless 
it  l)e  shown  that  Naticct  has  lost  an  initial  sound  of  Co,  or  Qui,  or  Quo. 
Xaticook  apparently  is  nearlj'  related  to  Natick.  tlie  name  of  several  localities 
in  New  England  ;  and  perhai)s  to  Nantucket,  formerly  written  Xatoclto. 
etc."     NdCdok.  the  name  of  a  brook  in  Dustable.  must  also  be  akin. 
The  r.sahnist  sings  of  Jenisuleni  us  •'beautiful  for  situation,"  and 
the  sons  of  Billerica,  native  or  adopted,  may  justly  speak  her  praise 
Avitli  similar  enthusiasm.  She  has  rivers,  and  ponds,  and  hills,  with 
mountains  in  the  distant  liaekgroinid,  affording  a  i)i('tin'esque  diversity 
of  landscape.  Tiic  Shawsiiin  winds  dreamily  lliroiigh  its  meadows 
on  the  east,  and  on  flic  west  is  the  Concord,  miicii  larger,  Init  almost 
as  sluggish,  until  it  reaches  the  fordway  and  falls  at  North  Ijillerica. 
West  of  the  ConcoiMl  is  IJroad  meadow,  on  (he  north;  (iilson  Hill, 
with  its  tine  oiitliiK'  in  the  centre,  and  the  beautiful  ^^'inning's  Pond 
in  the  south.  Hanked  by  highlands  towards  the  river,  which  were  early 
known  as  "Farley"  Hill.  Still  farther  southeast,  in  Carlisle,  is  the 
''long  hill"  of  the  lathers,  with  "long  hill  meadow,"  still  partly,  in 
Billerica.  East  of  the  Shawshiii,  the  head  wati'rs  of  Ipswich  Kiver 
are  found,  in  Lubber's  Brook,  and  Danfortii's  "Stop"  Brook  is  south 
of  the  AVoburn  Koad,  but  no  highlands  find  r<toin  within  the  mile 
of  breadth  here  belonging  to  liillerica.  The  central  swell  of  laiid 
between  the  two  rivers  has  southerly  the  picturesque  Nutting's  Pond, 
with  Indian  Hill  on  its  northern  side  and  on  the  east  a  plateau  rising 
to  the  north,  and,  beyond  a  depression,  terminating  in  Bare  Hill. 
This  hill  is  flanked  by  meadows,  lieyond  which  is  the  elevated  ground 
on  which  the  village  is  built,  sloping  towards  the  Concord,  at  the 
Corner.  Fox  Hill  stands  guard  on  the  northeast  of  the  villaoe, 
•lescending  rather  abru[)tly  to  the  lowlands  and  meadows  along  Fox 
 - 361 - 
318  HISTOEY   OF    BILLERICA. 
IJrook,  oil  Mic  iiortliwi'st,  and  C'oiili'iit  IJrook  below  as  it  winds  toward 
the  Sliavvsliiii,  and  welcomes  the  ''Little  Content"  on  its  way,  the 
latter  rising'  east  of  Vox  Hill.  Another  considerable  brook  rnns 
southeast  from  Fox  Hill  to  the  iShawshin  ;^  and  Web's  Brook,  rising 
northeast  of  Bare  Hill,  pnrsues  the  same  course. 
The  swelling  ground  on  which  the  village  stands,  while  not  very 
high,  is  suMk'icntly  elevated  to  give  a  wide  view  of  the  country 
in  all  directions.  It  may  have  interest  to  survey  the  scene  in  imagi- 
nation from  the  tower  of  tlie  First  Church.  The  spire  of  the  North 
Tewksbury  chnrcli  is  ver}-  nearly  nortli  and  may  be  our  starting 
[loint.  When  the  atmospheric  conditions  are  verj^  favorable,  a 
rounded  suiuniit  may  be  dimly  seen,  which  is  almost  certainly 
(Juustock  Mountain,  south  of  Lake  AVinnepesaukee,  and  sixty-five 
miles  distant.  J\It.  Washington  is  in  the  same  direction,  and  if  it 
were  otherwise  possible  to  see  this  monarch  of  the  White  Mountains 
Gunstock  would  liide  it.  About  twelve  degrees  east  is  Patuckawa, 
in  Deerlield,  New  Hampshire,  thirty-nine  miles  distant,  and  passing 
as  much  farther  we  come  to  Pros[)ect  Hill,  once  a  Billerica  landmark 
and  watch-tower  in  days  of  Lidian  warfare.  Tlien  the  village  of 
Tewksbury  and  State  Alms-house,  and  a  little  farther  east  a  summit 
is  to  be  seen,  when  the  conditions  favor,  which  may  be  Agamenticus, 
fifty-four  miles  away.  The  village  and  seminary  buildings  at  Andover 
are  hidden  l)y  Fox  Hill,  but  Holt's  Hill,  southeast  of  Andover,  marks 
the  locality.  Then  coming  almost  to  the  east  point  we  reach  the 
vast  Ituilding  of  the  Insane  Asylum,  at  Danvers.  and  passing  the 
east  point  as  far  come  to  the  tower  of  tiie  church  in  AVilmington, 
and,  a  little  farther,  Heading  ai)i)cars.  A  glimpse  of  the  Woburn 
spires  follows.  aii<l  tlicn  the  church  in  Ihiilington,  but  the  Burlington 
highlands  hide  from  view  Bunker  Hill  jMonument  and  the  State 
House.  Next  come  Ailington  Heights  and  Blue  Hill  in  Milton, 
Lexington,  and  Bcdfoixl,  which  marks  the  south  point.  Concord 
then  shows  its  spires,  and  after  a  wider  interval,  about  ten  degrees 
south  of  west,  AVachusett  lifts  its  rounded  and  conspicuous  sunmiit. 
The  spires  of  AN'estford  cut  the  horizon  as  much  north  of  west,  and 
just  beyond,  in  the  distance,  the  singular  head  of  Watatic,  in  Ashb}', 
appears.  Then  avc  come  to  Gilson's  Hill  in  the  foreground,  and, 
he^'ond  and  just  south  of  it,  Rol>in's  Hill,  in  Chelmsford,  and  Kidder's 
Mountain,  in  New  Ipswich,  New  Hampshire,  thirty-four  miles  distant. 
"  This  brook  is  soinL-tiiiK's  called  W^right's,  but  is  so  favorite  a  lisliiiii;  gromid  of  our 
ex-governor  that  it  iiiiglil  litly  bo  christoucd  "'ralbol's"  Brook. 
 - 362 - 
3IISCELLAXEOUS    AND    FINAL.  319 
This  brings  us  to  tlu'  iiiouarcb  of  the  whole  fii-cle,  Monjuhiock,  whose 
sharp  and  grand  crest  must  not  be  mistaken  for  some  hjwer  heiglit 
less  than  forty-seA'en  miles  awa}".  Farther  north  are  two  conspicuous 
and  fine  summits,  called,  on  the  recent  official  map  of  New  Hampshire, 
Pack-Monadnock,  but  popularl}  known  as  Temple  and  Peterborough 
mountains.  North  of  the  latter,  and  through  a  depression  in  the  hills 
which  gives  the  railroad  a  passage-wav,  a  rounded  sunnnit  may  l»e 
occasionally  seen  with  beautiful  distinctness  against  the  evening  sky, 
which  I  suppose  to  be  Bald  Mountain,  in  Antrim.  Lyndeborough 
JNIountain  is  succeeded  by  Crochet  Mountain,  in  Francestown,  vvitii 
its  longer  crest;  then  Jo  English  Hill  and,  near  by,  the  village  of 
Mont  Vernon.  Just-  beyond,  a  very  distant  summit  ma}'  sometimes 
be  seen,  which  is  possibly  Sunapee  Mountain,  sixty-eight  miles 
distant,  but  probably  some  heiglit  not  quite  so  far;  and  the  circle  is 
rounded  by  the  Uncanoonucks,  in  (ioffstowii,  with  North  Chelmsford 
and  Lowell  in  the  foreground. 
The  chief  interest  of  such  an  itinerary,  if  it  has  any,  will  be  to 
those  who  may  have  opportunity  to  follow  it  for  themselves  and  fill 
in  the  outline  with  other  details.  But  it  will  serve  to  suggest  to  any 
one  the  broad  expanse  of  hills,  and  plains,  and  streams,  over  which 
the  eye  travels  to  the  distant  summits.  These,  clothed  in  their  ever 
changing  attire  of  sunshine  and  shadow,  aflbrd  a  panorama  of 
peculiar  beauty  and  grandeur.  To  watch  the  play  of  cloud  and 
storm  as  they  travel  over  such  a  range  is  instructive  and  delightful  ; 
while  the  sunshine,  with  its  shadows  and  above  all  its  sunsets,  is 
surpassing.  The  praises  of  Andover  sunsets  have  been  sung  more 
widely,  as  generations  of  students  have  come  and  feasted  and  gone 
out  OA-er  the  earth.  But  I  have  had  opportunity  to  enjoy  and  stud}' 
both,  and  I  do  not  look  to  see,  this  side  of  the  gates  of  pearl,  any 
similar  vision  UKjre  indescribable  in  its  beauty  and  glory  than  1  have 
often  witnessed  in  Billerica  sunsets. 
THE   END. 
 - 363 - 
 - 364 - 
Genealogical    Hegistei^. 
The  following  record  of  families  is  desigiied  to  include  all  names 
and  dates  occuring  in, the  town  records  of  births,  marriages  and  deaths, 
prior  to  1800.  Since  that  date,  records  which  have  been  furnished 
by  families,  continuations  of  earlier  families,  and  such  others  as  the 
compiler  has  been  able  to  gather,  are  added,  but  with  no  attempt  at 
completeness,   which  was  for  obvious   reasons  imi)racticable. 
The  three  volumes  of  records  of  births,  marriages  and  deaths 
before  1840,  furnish  the  basis  of  this  register.  Additions  and  corrections 
have  been  gathered  from  various  sources,  of  which  the  following  should 
be  mentioned  : — 
1.  The  tax-lists.  Avhich  are  consecutive,  from  1733  to  1800,  and 
other  town  records. 
2.  The  record  of  baptisms  of  the  First  Church,  extending  from 
1748   to   1834. 
3.  Probate  records  and  the  registry  of   deeds. 
4.  Inscriptions   upon  grave-stones. 
5.  Family  records    and  the  memories   of  individuals. 
6.  Family  genealogies  and  histories  of  other  towns. 
7.  The  important  collections  of  the  Xew  England  Historical 
Genealogical  Society,   and  the  Register,    which  it  nas    long    published. 
The  plan  of  this  record  is  simple,  and  the  abbreviations  used  are 
common  and  self-explanatory.  Successive  families,  bearing  the  same 
name,  are  numbered,  and  the  same  heavy-faced  number  is  used  after 
the  name,  where  the  person  is  previously  mentioned  as  a  child,  and  in 
connection  with  his  marriage,  elsewhere.  When  a  son  is  afterwards 
mentioned  as  the  father  of  a  family,  this  reference  figure  following  his 
name  indicates  the  fact  and  the  place  where  his  family  will  be  found,  and 
if  the  figure  does  not  follow  a  child's  name,   no  family  follows. 
The  completeness  of  such  a  record  can  he  only  approximate.  The 
years  of  research.  i"ei)resented  by  Bond's  WotertoiDi  and  Wyman's 
Charlestov;n  GeneaJogien,  have  not  l)een  at  the  connnand  of  this 
comi)iler.  and  he  can  only  say  that  he  has  done  the  best  he  could, 
in  the  short  time  at  his  disposal.  Some  errors  of  the  records  and 
of  previous  explorers,  he  has  corrected,  and  if  he  has  not  added 
more  than  his  own  share  to  the  mistakes  to  which  all  such  work  is 
exposed,  it  is  as  much  as  he  can  hope  for.  Charity  is  a  lesson 
which  one  must  needs  learn  who  delves  in  such  records  and  labors, 
and  it  should  not  detract  from  the  esteem,  approaching  reverence,  in  which 
Billerica  properly  holds  the  services  of  Jonathan  Danforth,  to  note 
the  fact  that  an  error  is  found  in  his  record  of  liirth  of  the  fii'st 
son  and  the  first  daughter  of  the  town.  Trusting  that  this  register 
will  be  found  of  value  to  the  old  town,  to  her  sous  and  daugliters 
abroad,  and  to  genealogical  investigators,  the  author  commits  his  work 
to   their  charitable  judgment. 
 - 365 - 
2  ABBOT. 
ABBOT.  1.  Joshua,  dea.,  was  the  son  of  John  Abbot,  of  Andover, 
A\'hose  father,  George,  was  oni>  of  the  first  settlers  of  that  town.  He  was 
born  1685.  June  1(5;  m.  1710.  June  10.  Kebeeca  Shed,  dau.  of  John,  3. 
She  d..l720,  April  7,  and  he  ni.  Dorcas  Whiting,  dau.  of  Oliver,  3. 
She  d.  17G5.  Dee.  23,  and  he  d.  1709.  Feb.  11.  He  was  town  clerk,  and  an 
active.  usefiU  citizen,  and  deaiMjn  of  the  church.  Ch.  Echecca.  b.  1711, 
March  27;  d.  1701,  May  9.  John.  b.  171:5,  May  o;  ni.  Hannah  Richardson, 
daii»  of  Jonathan.  6,  and  lived  in  Westford,  wh^re  he  d.  1701.  Oct.  22. 
SnraJi.  1).  1714-.}.  Feb.  24;  ni.  Christo])lier  Osgood.  Jlart/  and  Hannah, 
b.  1717,  Aug.  28;  Mary  ni.  Ilenrv  Jefts;  Hannah  ni.  Phinehas  Osgood. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1719,  Dec.  7;  m.  Hobert  AValker;  d.  1803.  Joshua.  2,  b.  1722, 
Oct.  28.  Dorcas,  b.  1724,  Nov.  6,  and  d.  1810,  Jan.  7.  Oliver.  3,  b.  1727, 
March  26.  David,  4,  b.  1729,  April  27.  Lydia,  b.  1732.  June  26.  and  d. 
1748.  Oct.  13. 
2.  Joshua,  dea.,  son  of  Joshua.  1,  b.  1722.  Oct.  28;  ni.  1746,  March  6, 
Sarah  Stearns,  dau.  of  Isaac,  jr..  7;  she  d.  1803,  Sept.  7,  and  he  d.  1807, 
Aug.  8.  He  gave  a  bell  and  a  clock  for  the  meeting-house,  and  left  to  the 
town  a  legacj'  of  81,400,  the  income  to  be  devoted  to  the  promotion  of 
sacred  music.  He  had  only  one  son,  Joshua,  b.  1747,  Xov.  2,  and  d.  1752, 
June  7. 
3.  Oliver,  son  of  Joshua.  1,  b.  1727,  March  20;  m.  17o2,  Feb.  13, 
Joanna  French,  dau.  of  William,  jr.,  13;  she  d.  1768.  Aug.  20,  and  he  m. 
1769.  Aug.  1.  Al)igail  Hall,  dau."  of  IJev.  AVillard.  of  Westford.  He  d. 
1796,  April  10,  and  his  widow.  1804,  Aug.  4.  Ch.  Joanna,  b.  1753,  April  18, 
and  d.  the  next  day.  L;idia.  b.  1754.  July  11.  and  d.  1788,  July  22. 
Joanna,  b.  1755,  Julv  24;  m.  1776,  Mav  21.  Simeon  Winship.  of  Lexington. 
Oliver,  b.  1756,  Dec.  1,  and  d.  1757.  Feb.  9.  Oliver  Whiting,  b.  1757, 
Dec.  5,  and  d.  1758.  May  1.  Beriah.  b.  and  d.  1759.  April  1.  Silence,  b. 
and  d.  1760,  July  21.  Silent,  b.  and  d.  1761.  May  13.  Dorcas,  b.  1764, 
Dec.  19;  m.  Jonathan  Bowers.  Joshua,  b.  1772,  July  29,  and  d.  1795, 
June  7.  in  the  island  of  Hispaniola.  Ahiqail.  )>.  1774,  Sept.  14;  m.  Ephraim 
Kidder.  19.     EUzaheth.  b.  1779,  Feb.  4. 
4.  Davill,  son  of  Joshua,  1,  b.  1729,  April  27;  m.  1752,  Aug.  25, 
Hannah  Ellis.  She  d.  1767.  Dec.  17,  and  he  m.  1768.  June  28.  Huldah 
Paine,  of  Maiden,  wV)  d.  1797,  Sept.  8.  He  d.  1801,  Xov.  15.  Ch.  David, 
b.  1760.  June  5.  and  d.  1761.  Dec.  19.  David,  h.  1770.  Dec.  18;  graduated 
H.  C.  1794.  and  d.  1804,  April  9.  Blaney.  b.  1772.  Oct.  25;  lived, 
unmarried,  in  Billerica;  town  clerk,  and  a  useful  citiz.en;  d.  1855.  July  17. 
5.  Jeremiah,  son  of  Nathaniel,  of  Andover.  and  cousin  of  Joshua,  1, 
b.  1709,  Nov.  4;  he  was  a  saddler;  m.  1735,  Dec.  2.  Hannah  Ballard,  of 
Andover;  he  d.  1748,  Aug.  28.  and  his  widow  m.  2d.  AVilliam  StickneJ^  esq., 
and  d.  1789,  Feb.  17.  aged  85.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1735,  Oct.  10;  m.  Oliver 
Farmer.  9.  Jeremiah,  b.  1738.  Aug.  24.  and  d.  1740,  April  12.  Bebecca, 
b.  1741,  July  13;  m.  Richard  Boviiton.  and  d.  1816.  Jeremiah,  b.  1745, 
July  20,  and  d.  Aug.  7.  William,  b.  1746,  July  21;  m.  1769,  Dec.  28, 
Rebecca  Spalding,  of  Chelmsford,  and  lived  in  C.  and  in  Wheelock.  Vt. 
Jeremiah,  b.  1748,  Aug.  11  ;  m.  1769.  Jan.  19,  Susannah  Baldwin,  of 
Tewksbury,  and  lived  in  Clielmsford  and  in  AVilton,  N.  H. 
6.  David,  son  of  David,  of  Andover,  who  A\'as  cousin  of  Joshua.  1, 
b.  1728,  March  28;  m.  1752,  Dec.  28,  Prudence  Sheldon,  dau.  of  Samuel.  3; 
lived  in  Andover,  in  Barton,  Vt.,  in  Salem,  O.,  and  1775-8,  in  B.,  where 
was  b.  his  youngest  son;  he  had  Ch.  Hannah  m.  Aaron  Parker.  Campton, 
Quebec  ;  Elizabeth,  Prudence,  Josiah,  Samuel,  David.  Benjamin.  Olive, 
Dorcas  m.  John  Snow,  and  Jeremiah,  b.  1776.  May  18.  who  lived  in  Gorham 
and  Portland.  Me.     David  Al)bot  d.  in  B..  1788,  Nov.  1. 
7.  Benjamin,  son,  prob.  of  David.  6,  m.  Betsev.  Ch.  Betsey,  b. 
1795. 8.Jan.  1.     Anna.  b.  1796.  April  22.     Hannah,  b.  1797."  Nov.  16. 
James,  son  of  Joseph,  of  Andover,  N.  H.  ;  b.  1768.  Feb.  22; 
m.  1791.  Feb.  20,  Mehitable  Holt.  He  was  a  merchant.  Town  clerk  one 
year,   and  representative.     Ch.    Sop\ronia,    b.   1791,   Dec.   7.     James,   b. 
 - 366 - 
ABBOT  —  ALLEN.  3 
1793,  June  2.  Joseph,  b.  1795.  Maj^  8.  Daniel,  b.  1797,  May  -23.  Mehitable, 
bap.  1799.  Feb.  24.  Isaac,  bap.  1800,  Xov.  30.  Isaac,  bap.  1804,  July  1.5. 
John.  bap.  1800,  May  4.     Clarissa,  bap.  1808,  March  13. 
9.  Nathan,  son  of  Xathan,  of  ^Vilton.  X.  H.  ;  ni.  JNlaiy  Wilson. 
Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  178.'j,  P>b.  25;  ni.  1807,  Sept.  6.  Edward  Kussell,  of 
Townsend.  JIartha,  b.  1788,  Jan.  19;  ni.  Leonard  Cashing.  Nathan.  10, 
b.  1790.  Feb.  7.  Lt/dia.  b.  1792.  Aug.  6;  m.  Nathaniel  Stevenson. 
Sophronia,  b.  1795,  Jan.  20;  m.  1819,  Asa  Bushby,  Danvers.  Judith,  b. 
1797,  March  14;  m.  Levi  Felton.  Marlboro*.  Asenath.  h.  1801.  June  17. 
Manj.  )).  180().  Aug.  15;   ni.  Ilenrj'  Kushby.  Danvers. 
10.  Nathan,'  son  of  Nathan,  9,  h.  1790.  Feb.  7;  m.  1825.  Nov.  10, 
Hannah  Farmer,  dau.  of  Oliver,  14.  She  d.  in  Lowell.  1878,  Dee.  26. 
Ch.  Oliver  Farmer,  b.  1826.  Aug.  22.  and  d.  1827.  Sept.  18.  Hannah,  b. 
1827.  Julv  27.  Rachel,  b.  1829.  March  25.  Henrii.  b.  1831,  May  1,  and  d. 
June  20."^  Catherine,  b.  1832.  Oct.  12.  George,  b.  1835.  March  6.  and  d. 
May  20.     Louisa,  b.  1830.  July  13.     Sarah  Elizabeth,  b.  *839.  March  10. 
11.  f^}^orge,  son  of  Stei)hen,  whose  fatlier.  Stephen,  was  brother  of 
Joshua,  1,  ni.  1779.  V\pril  1.  Kebecca  Blanchard.  dau.  of  Simon,  4. 
Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1779.  Nov.  2;  lived  in  St.  Stephen.  N.  E..  and  in  Wilton  or 
Salem,  and  had  7  ch.  Rebecca.  Sarah  Stevens  m.  (ien.  David  Putnam. 
Georr/e.  Ephraim.  Elizabeth.  Stephen,  and  Mar;/. 
ADAM8.  1.  Jonas,  of  Chelmsford,  m.  1740.  Aug.  4.  Eebecca.  dau.  of 
Benoni  Spalding. 
2.  William,  of  Boston,  m.  1766,  Nov.  5.  Rachel  Hovey,  prob.  dau.  of 
John. 
3.  Joseph,  m.  1794,  May  2,  Betsey  Davis. 
4.  Nathan,  m.  1796.  May  16.  Hannah  MacCarty.  dau.  of  William 
Greenough.  Mr.  Adams  was  ;)  tanner,  merchant,  and  auctioneer,  in 
Charlestown. 
5.  Amos,   m.   Susan    Dodge,    of    Chai'lestown  ;    he  d.    and    she    m. 
  Hamilton,  and  d.   1878.  March  20.     Ch.  Esther   m.    Aleck  Stowell.    a 
jeweller,  on  Winter  street.  Boston.  Edirard  Amos.  b.  1837.  Nov.  25.  An 
early  graduate  of  the  Howe  school.  He  was  first,  when  the  Eebellion 
arose,  to  volunteer  for  ••three  years  or  the  war."  from  Billerica.  He  was 
active  in  raising  the  ([uota  of  the  town,  and  did  faithful  sei'vice.  until  his 
death  from  woimds  received  near  Petersburg.  Va..  1864.  June  27.  A  fine 
portrait  has  been  presented  by  his  friends  to  the  Howe  school.     Snsan. 
ALBEN,  Henry,  was  in  town  before  1685.  His  wife  was  Deborah. 
Ch.  Allice.  b.  "1694.  01.  17." 
ALLEN,  1.  Samuel,  prob.  son  and  grandson  of  Samuel,  sr.  and  jr., 
of  Manchester;  b.  1700.  He  was  a  merchant  in  Newliury  and  Manchester, 
before  settling  in  Billerica.  1763.  He  m.  Abigail  March,  dau.  of  Rev. 
Edmund,  of  Amesburj'.  by  whom  he  had  5  ch.  ;  and  2d,  Hannah  Godfrey, 
of  Nevvburj\  by  whom  he  had  14  ch.  Only  one  daughter  by  the  first  wife 
lived  to  maturity,  and  several  of  the  others  died  in  infancy.  His  will  is 
dated  1775.  Feb.  3.  and  names  ch.  Thomas.  Jeremiah.  Abigail  and  Dorcas, 
and  the  daughters  of  Sanuiel.  deceased.  Ch.  Abir/ail  m.  Lunt.  of 
Newburyport."  Sarmiel.  2.  Joseph  d.  at  sea.  Michael,  captured  at  sea 
and  Impressed  into  the  English  service.  Zadoc  d.  in  B.  Thomas.  3. 
Zerubbabel  and  Jeremiah.  4,  b.  1752,  Feb.  11.  Dorcas  m.  Michael  Parsons. 
Polley  d.  in  B.     Anney  d.  in  Manchester. 
2.  Samuel,  son  of  Samuel,  1,  m.  Salley  Goodrich,  of  Newburv.  He 
d.  1768.  at  Halifax.     Ch.  Sarah.     Ma,ry.  b.  1768.  Sept.  30. 
3.  Thomas,  son  of  Samuel.  1,  m.  1768,  Oct.  13,  Abigail  Harvey, 
of  Cape  Ann.  His  name  disai)pears  from  tax-list,  1793.  Ch.  Zadock,  5, 
b.  1770.  Feb.  3.  Abigail,  b.  1773.  June  3;  m.  William  Tarbell.  Anna.  b. 
1774,  Nov.  26;  unmarried.  Joseph.  6,  b.  1777,  Jan.  31.  Dorcas,  b.  1780. 
June  1. 
4.  Jeremiah,  son  of  Samuel;  b.  1752,  Feb.  11;  ni.  1776.  July  4. 
Abigail  Rogers,  dau.  of  Samuel,  11.  t  
He  lived  where  Dea.  King  now  lives  ; 
 - 367 - 
4  ALLEN  —  BACON. 
(1.  1837.  Oct.  28.  Ch.  Ahif/ail.  h.  1777,  Oct.  19.  Jeremiah,  7,  b.  1778.  Aug".  12. 
IMterm,  h.  1780,  April  15.  Polh/.  h.  1782,  March  28;  ni.  18U,  jNIiirch  1. 
Phillip  Putnaiii.  of  Wilton.  N.  H.  Samuel  Bngers,  b.  1783.  Nov.  5. 
Ameririis,  h.  1787.  March  18 ;  hap.  1786.  the  record  "says ;  lived  in  Carlisle, 
Penn.  Xanri/.  ]>.  178!),  Ajii-il  4;  ni.  John  Kichardson.  29.  Ezra,  8,  h.  1791. 
Sept.  23.     Hetir;/.  9,  h.  1793.  July  20.     Jolut.  )>.  1798.  Jan.  ."). 
5.  Zjlrtock,  son  of  Tlionia"s.  2,  b.  1770.  Feb.  3;  ni.  1797.  April  9, 
Sarali  Patten,  dau.  of  John,  12;  she  d.  184(),  May.  3.  He  d.  1840.  May  1; 
lived  on  the  East  road,  wheiv  his  daught<'i-  Sojiliia  now  lives.  Ch.  Sarah, 
b.  1799.  Oct.  21;  d.  1870.  Nov.  3.  ^  HmiiKth  Patten,  h.  182r).  Mav  7;  m. 
Jonathan  Wright.  Jahu.  b.  1803.  Oct.  24;  d.  1871.  May  23.  Sophia,  b. 
1809.  Nov.  1.     (hily  the  last  born  in  Hillericn. 
6.  Joseph,  son  of  Thomas.  2,  b.  1777.  Jan.  31  ;  ni.  1808.  Aug-.  14, 
Jane  Patten,  also  dau.  of  John,  12;  she  d.  1848.  April  7.  Ch.  Charles  Henry, 
b.  1808,  Oct.  30.     Hnsley  Patten,  b.  1812.  Aug.  o. 
7.  Jeremiah,-  son  of  Jeremiah.  4,  b.  1778.  Aug.  12:  m.  1803.  Oct.  23, 
Lucy  Farmer,  dau.  of  JohTi.  11;  he  d.  1811.  Dec.  2.  and  she  m.  Marshall. 
Ch.  Harriet  B.  m.  1828,  Dec.  2.  Samuel  Parker,  of  Peading.  Manj  B.  m. 
1825.  Dec.  1,  James  McKeen,  of  Dunstable.  John  Farmer  lived  in 
Lyndeboro',  N.  H.     Samuel  m.  Lucy  J.  Cotlin;   d.  1853.  Nov.  12. 
8.  Ezra,  son  of  Jeremiah.  4,  b."l791,  Sept.  23;  m.  1819,  Nov.  8,  Nancy 
Ruggles,  of  AVrentliaiu.  He  lived  where  James  Page  lives,  on  the 
Wihnington  road.  Ch.  Gornelins  Erasmus,  b.  1820,  Oct,  30,  and  d.  1822, 
Nov.  10.     Ezra  Leo nidas,  b.  1823,  May  23. 
9.  Henry,  son  of  Jeremiah.  4,  b.  1793,  July  20 ;  m.  1817.  Oct.  29.  Eliza 
Ruggles.  of  Taunton;  lived  where  his  father  did.  Ch.  Edwin  Henrif.  b. 
IBLSr  Aug-.  27.  Elisa  Minerva,  h.  1822,  April  21,  at  Wilton.  N.  H.  ;  m.  J841, 
Sept.  28,  Rufus  Clement,  of  Boston.  Elona  Melrina.  b.  1824.  April  19. 
San  ford  Eaton,  b.  1828.  March  28;  both  at  Lyndeboro'.  N.  H.  Martha 
Cohrell.  b.  1830.  March  Ki;   ni.  AVilliam  Bohonan',  and  d.  1853,  Dec.  24. 
10.  Abraham,  m.  1825.  July  20.  Hannah  Carkin.  of  Chester,  N.  H. 
AiXGrlER.     1.     Robert,    nanie    on    tax-list.     1770-5;     wife,    Martha. 
Ch.  Jesse,  b.  1763.  July  9.  John,  b.  1765,  Aug.  21.  Asa,  b.  1768, 
March  29.     Bette.  b.  1771.  June  19.     Samuel,  h.  1774,  F"eb.  2. 
2.     Charles,  had  dau.  Sarah  ;  bap.  1765.  Nov.  3. 
ATHERTON,  Dr.  Benjamin,  was  son  of  Joshua,  of  Lancaster,  and 
grandson  of  James,  of  Dorchester,  who  was  brother  of  Gen.  Humphrey 
Atherton.  who  once  represented  Billerica  at  the  General  Court.  His  father 
had  a  brother  Peter,  whose  son,  Joshua,  H.  C.  1762,  was  Attorney-General 
of  New  Hampshire,  and  father  of  Hon.  Charles  H.  Atherton.  of  Amherst, 
N.  H.,  a  mendjer  of  Congress.  Dr.  Atherton  m.  1733.  Dec.  25.  Mary 
Rogers,  widow  of  John,,8,  and  d.  1739.  Sept.  1.  Ch.  Mary.  b.  1734,  Sept.  12; 
was  living-  in  1783.  Benjamin,  b.  1736,  Dec.  9;  was  brought  up  by  his 
uncle.  Col.  Peter  Atherton.  of  Harvard  ;  enlisteil  in  the  French  and  Indian 
War.  and  before  the  Revolution,  settled  at  Sht^ttield,  N.  B..  on  the  St.  John 
river.  Was  the  first  coroner  in  that  province,  and  register  of  wills  and 
deeds.  In  1780.  he  removed  to  the  site  of  the  city  of  Frederii'ton,  and 
when  that  city  was  laid  out,  he  was  given  hy  the  government  a  large  farm 
in  Prince  William,  twenty-five  miles  up  the  river.  He  m.  1773.  March  30. 
Abigail  Mores,  and  had  a  son,  Isiael.  Dr.  Alfred  B.  Atherton,  of 
Fredericton.  is  his  gi-andson.     He  d.  1816.  July  17. 
BACON.  1.  Michael,  grandson  of  Michael,  of  Dedham.  and  son  of 
Michael,  jr.,  one  of  the  first  settlers  of  Woburn;  was  b.  prob.  in 
Charlestown.  about  1640.  He  purchased.  1682,  July  19,  the  farm  of  500 
acres,  which  had  been  granted  by  Canilnidge  to  the  Rev.  IVIr.  Mitchell.  It 
was  situated  on  Shawshin  river,  alcove  the  ^^'yman  farm,  and  in  the 
north-east  part  of  what  became  Bedford.  Prol)abiy  lie  had  held  the  farm 
by  lease  before  the  purcliase.  as  the  births  of  his  t-hildi'eu  are  recorded  here 
after  1671.  and  he  had  a  gnint,  1680,  31arch,  of  forty  ai-res  adjoining  Mrs. 
Mitchell's  farm,  on  the  south-east  of  Shawshin  river,  and  reaching-  almost 
to  John  Wilson's  saw  ndll.     He  m.  1660,  March  22,  Sarah,  dau.  of  Thomas 
 - 368 - 
BACON.  5 
Richardson,  and  sister  of  Thomas,  1,  of  Billerica.  Slie  d.  1G94,  Aug.  15; 
he  d.  1707,  Aug.  13.  Ch.  (The  first  four  b.  inWoburn).  Marij.h.  1661. 
Maroh  1.  Sarah,  b.  1663.  Aug.  24.  Abigail,  b.  1666-7.  March  5.  Michael,  a 
shoemaker,  in  Billerica,  1696.  "  
b.  1675.  .Sept.  18.  Josiah.  4,  b.Jonathan.1678.  2,  b.  1672,  July  14.  Xathaniel,  3, 
Oct.  20.  Buth,  b.  1681.  Sept.  24. 
Benjamin.  6,  b.  ( V).     Joseph.  6,  b.  1685.  May  8. 
2.  Jonathau,  son  of  Michael.  1,  b.  1672.  July  14;  m.  1694.  Jan.  3. 
Elizabeth  Giles,  and  1739,  Aug.  or  Sept.  22.  Elizabeth  Hancock,  widow  of 
Benjamin  Wvman.  of  Woburn.  He  d;  1754.  Jan.  12.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1695, 
Nov.  26.  Sarah,  b.  Wd6.  Dec.  25;  m.  Israel  Putnam.  2.  Anna,  h.  1698, 
April  28,  and  d.  Oct.  8.  Jonathan,  b.  1700,  Dec.  18.  3Iarif,  b.  1702, 
Sept.  18.     Bridfjet.  b.  1706-7.  Jan.  5.     Anna.  b.  1709.  Aug.  19. 
3.  Nathaniel,  son  of  Michael,  1,  b.  1675,  Sept.  18;  m.  Judith  Wyman, 
dau.  of  Francis,  of  Woburn.  Ch.  Nathaniel,  b.  1699-1700.  :Mafch  1. 
Judeth,  b.  1701.  Oct.  19.  (The  record  says  1702.  which  is  impossible,  as  it 
gives  her  death  1701.  Dec.  30).  Judeth,  b.  1702.  Nov.  10.  Abigail,  h. 
1704-5.  Jan.  1  ;  m.  1725.  Aug.  26,  Thomas  Grover.  SaraJi.  b.  1707.  April  10; 
m.  1726-7,  March  2.  Benjamin  Grover,  of  Stonehain.  Michal,  b.  1708-9, 
March  22.  and  d.  Dec.  30.  Susanna,  b.  1710.  Oct.  5.  Mirhal,  b.  1713, 
Oct.  29.     Joseph,  b.  1716.  Mai'ch  31.     Thomas,  b.  1721.  Sept.  13. 
4.  Josiah,  son  of  Michael.  1,  1).  1678,  Oct.  20;  m.  Mary.  Lieut. 
Josiah  Bacon  d.  1723.  Oct.  14.  Ch.  Josiah,  7,  b.  1702,  April  27.  Mary, 
b.  1703.  Oct.  20.  and  d.  Nov.  16.  Manj,  b.  1704.  Dec.  9.  and  d.  Jan.  8. 
Mani,  h.  1706.  Oct.  14.  L>jdia.  b.  1710.  June  6.  Samuel,  b.  1719.  March  25, 
and  d.  April  19. 
5.  Benjamin,  son  of  3Iichael.  1,  m.  1712.  Dec.  2,  Abigail  Taylor,  of 
Concord.  He  d.  1727.  Nov.  27.  Ch.  Benjamin,  b.  1713,  Dec.  6.  John,  b. 
1716.  June  16.  and  d.  1760.  Mav  26.  Abiqail,  b.  1718.  Sept.  25.  Samuel,  h. 
1721.  July  21.     iMartj,  b.  1726.  Oct.  28.  and  d.  Dec.  28. 
(j.  Joseph,  son  of  Michael.  1,  b.  1685,  May  8 ;  m.  1716,  May  9,  Eehecca 
Taylor,  (of  Concord?).  He  d.  1747.  Nov.  29.  and  she  d.  1778,  Aug.  24, 
aged  91  years.  9  months,  and  16  days.  Ch.  Rebecca,  b.  1717,  April,  17;  d. 
1763. 7.Feb.  21).     Lydia.  b.  1719.  Sept. '20. 
Josiah,  son  of  Josiah,  4,  1).  1702,  April  27;  ra.  1726,  Jime  23, 
Sai-ah  Davis,  dau.  of  dea.  Joseph,  1.  She  ni.  2d.  Capt.  Enoch  Kidder. 
Ch.  Josiah.  b.  1727,  April  23.  Solomon,  b.  1728.  Nov.  27.  David,  b.  1730, 
Aug.  30.  Joshua,  b.  1732,  Sept.  14.  William,  8,  b.  1734,  Aug.  8. 
Ebenezer,  b.  1736.  Sept.  15.'  James,  b.  1738,  June  30.  Sarah,  b.  (?). 
Aug.  18.  Mary,  b.  1742.  Feb.  5.  Joseph,  b.  1745,  March  24.  Liday,  b. 
1747.  Aug.  23;   ni.  Isaac  Foster,  son  of  7. 
8.  William,  son  of  Josiah,  7,  b.  1734,  Aug.  8;   m.  Sarah   .     His 
name  disappears  from  tax-list.  1758.     Ch.  Adoniram,  bap.  1758,  April  9. 
9.  John,  is  on  tax-list.  1783,  and  after.     No  record  of  family. 
10.  Jonas,  and  wife  Betsey.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1785,  Sept.  5;  m.  1809, 
July  30.  Samuel  Reed,  of  Acton.  Abigail,  b.  1787.  April  17;  m.  Jonathan 
French.  30.  Jonas,  b.  1789,  May  10.  William,  b.  1791,  April  9.  Charlotte, 
b.  1793.  Sept.  23  ;  m.  1811,  Dec.  19,  John  Monroe,  of  Lexington.  Sophronia, 
b.  1795,  June  5.  Oliver,  b.  1797.  Sept.  8.  George,  11,  b.  1799.  Sept.  7. 
Znlima,  b.  1802.  April  9;  m.  1820,  April  6,  Roger  Lane,  of  Bedford. 
Lavinia,  b.  1804,  Oct.  13.     Levi,  b.  1806,  Dec.  10. 
11.  George,  son  of  Jonas,  10,  b.  1799,  Sept.  7;  m.  Mary  Bates, 
of  Concord,  and  Sophronia  Gove;  now  lives  in  Lexington.  Ch.  Mary  H., 
b.  1826,  Feb.  5.  George  Edwin,  b.  1829.  Oct.  10.  Edward  Carrinqton, 
b.  1831.  March  4.  John  Douglass,  b.  1832.  Sept.  14.  Caroline  Elizabeth, 
b.  1833.  Dec.  13.  Susan  31aria,  b.  1835.  June  20;  m.  Lewis  Johnson. 
Stebbins  Fisk.  b.  1840.  May  20;  d.  1841,  Nov.  15.  Clarence  Bichardson, 
b.  1842.  March  20.  Ellen'^  Sophronia.  b.  1845.  March  23.  Anna  Bemis, 
b.  1850,  Aug.  10;  d.  George  Bickford.  b.  1852,  Nov.  24;  d.  Alice  Gertrude, 
b.  1854,  Feb.  24;   m.   Ciiisholm,  of  South  Boston. 
 - 369 - 
6  1JAILP:Y  —  BALDWIN. 
BAILEY.  1.  Jonathan,  1780-2  ;  m.  1777,  P>b.  20.  Elizabeth  Baldwin, 
dau.  of  Benjamin.  12.  The  name  is  on  tax-list  a  few  years,  but  no  children 
are  recorded. 
2.  Kendall,  on  tax-list.  17i»5. 
3.  John  Barnard,  a  honueopathic  physician;  came  to  Billerica  in 
1870;  b.  ISl.").  .June  1;:5  ;  ni.  Frances  Woodbury  Paterson;  lives  on  the 
Lowell  road,  near  the  corner. 
4.  John  Mason,  sun  of  preceding;  b.  1842.  Feb.  15;  m.  1877, 
Aug.  20.  Fhebe  J.  tiaskill.  dau.  of  LiUeus.  of  Woonsocket,  R.  I.  He 
bought  the  farm-  north-east  of  Winning  pond,  in  1872,  and  by  the  extent  of 
his  improvements  and  exi)eriments.  "has  given  it  celebrity  as  '•  
Winning 
farm."  He  has  stocked  it  A\ith  thorough-bred  Jersey  cattle,  Cotswold, 
Oxfordshire.  <ind  Merino  slieej),  and  Berkshire  swine.  Me  was  the  first  in 
this  country  to  introduce  the  French  system  of  ensilage,  or  the  building  of 
silos  for  the  preservatitm  of  forage  crops  in  their  green  state,  and  he 
is  pul)lishhig  ''The  Book  of  Ensilage,'"  a  treatise  on  the  system,  with 
history  and  results  of  his  experiments. 
BAKER.  1.  John,  and  wife  Sarah,  came  from  England,  where  their 
ch.  were  born  ;  lived  on  Andover  street,  the  place  now  occupied  by  Kev. 
John  Haskell.  He  died  1844.  Sept.  15,  aged  50.  ( "h.  J/a/v/.  b.  1819.  Nov.  1 ; 
m.  William  >S.  Uleason.  4.  Ann.  b.  1823.  Aug.  10;  m.  George  Hall. 
Elisn.  b.  1825.  Dec.  14;  m.  James  P.  Wason.  and  is  no-w  a  widow  in 
California.  EJ>.pn.  2,  b.  1829.  May  16.  Joltn  i-Vr/Hc/.s,  )).  1831.  J\me  20;  in 
California.     William  Ilcnrii.  b.  1836,  Jan.  1 ;   
in  California. 
2.  Eben,  b.  1829.  May  16;  m.  Elizabeth  Ann  Boynton.  of  Bedford, 
N.  H.  He  is  a  butcher,  and  lives  opposite  his  father's  place.  Ch.  John 
'Henri/,  b.  1859,  Jan.  30.  Carrie  Emily,  b.  1863.  Dec.  25.  Lucy  Murdoch^ 
b.  1865.  Sept.  5.  Fred  Herbert,  b.  1867.  Oct.  1.  Charles  Eben,  b.  1870, 
Jan.  30.     nnscae  Chase,  b.  1877,  July  12. 
is    BALDWIN.  1.  John,  was  i)ro"b.  a  brother  of  Henry,  of  Woburn.  who 
said  to  have  been  from  Devonshire.  He  m.  Mary.  dau.  of  Thomas 
Richardson,  of  Woburn.  and  sister  of  Thomas,  1,  of  Billerica.  1655.  May  15. 
This  implies  that  he  came  to  B.  as  earl}^  as  this  ilate  ;  no  other  evidence  has 
been  found  of  his  presence  before  1657.  He  lived  on  the  west  siile  of  Long 
street,  near  Mrs.  Bennett's  residence,  north  of  Jonathan  Danforth's.  He  d. 
1687,  Sept.  25.  Ch.  3Iary.  b.  1659.  July  28.  and  d.  Aug.  1.  Mary.  b.  1663, 
April  11.  John,  2,  b.  1665,  Sept.  25.'  Jonathan.  3,  b.  1667-8.  Jan.  28. 
iSitsanna,  b.  1670.  May  14,  and  d.  1675,  Sept.  8.  Thomas.  4,  b.  1672, 
March  26.  Fhebe.  b.  1675-6.  Feb.  7.  and  d.  March  24.  Susanna,  b.  1677, 
April  14;  m.  Joseph  Hill,  8.  Fhebe.  b.  1679-80,  Feb.  7;  m.  Dr.  Roger 
Toothaker.  2. 
2.  John,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1665.  Sept.  25;  m.  1689-90.  Feb.  12.  Sarah 
Hey  wood.  prob.  dau.  of  John,  of  Concord.  She  d.  1741.  Feb.  9.  He  d. 
1736.  April  6.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1690.  Dec.  28;  m.  William  Simonds.  3Iary, 
b.  1692,  Dec.  16;  m.  Joseph  Brown.  4.  Jnde.  b.  1695-6.  Jan.  20.  Thomas. 
6,  b.  1697-8.  March  15.  limh.  b.  1699.  April,  18.  John,  b.  1701,  July  27, 
and  d.  Se])t.  10.  Elizabeth,  b.  1702,  Sept.  21  ;  m.  1734,  May  8,  Joseph 
Johnson,  of  Woburn.  Abigail,  b.  1705.  xS-pril  15;  m.  1729-30,  Jan.  9, 
James  Tompson.  John.  b.  1707-8.  Jan.  21,  and  d.  1738,  Oct.  24.  William., 
6,  b.  1710,  Sept.  15. 
3.  Jonathan,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1667-8.  Jan.  28 ;  ra.  1695.  Dec.  13, 
Mary  French,  dau.  of  Jacob.  3.  He  d.  1735-6.  Feb.  17.  Ch.  Mary,  b.  1696, 
Sept.  15;  m.  AVilliam  Brown,  6.  Susanna,  b.  1698,  Dec.  9.  Jonathan,  7, 
b.  1700-1,  Feb.  21.  Samuel,  b.  1703,  April  9,  and  d.  1705.  July  22.  Josiah, 
8,  b.  1708.  May  22. 
4.  Thomas,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1672,  March  26;  m.  Sarah.  Ensign 
Thomas  d.  1747,  Dec.  12.  His  widow  d.  1761,  June  16.  Ch.  Jnhn.  9,  h. 
1699.  Nov.  10.  Joseph,  b.  1702.  Sept.  14;  m.  1728.  June  14,  Esther 
Manning,  {see  4).  Jacob,  b.  1704-5,  March  18.  David.  10,  b.  1711.  June  9. 
Samuel,  11,  b.  1713,  April  12.  Jeremiah,  b.  1714,  July  29.  and  d.  1741, 
Auo-.  3.     Fheba,  b.  1717-18.  Jan.  19.     Benjamin,  12,  b.  1724,  April  9. 
 - 370 - 
BALDWIN.  7 
5.  Thomas,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1G97-S,  March  15;  ni.  Dorothy  Kidder, 
dau.  of  Ei)hraim,  3.  Ch.  Dorotln/,  b.  1719.  July  28.  Bnchd,  b.  1721, 
Oct.  7.  T/Kmih.s,  13,  b.  1723-1,  Feb.  22.  Elrazav,  b.  172o-6.  March  11. 
Jns(ph,  b.  1728,  Oct.  20.  Benjamin,  b.  1730.  Dec.  10.  Ephrahn,  b.  1733, 
June  5.     As(u  b.  1734,  Dec.  22. 
6.  William,  sou  of  John.  2,  i).  1710.  Sept.  15;  ni.  1741,  Sept.  23, 
Mary  Fanner,  dau.  of  Oliver.  6.     lie  d.  17G2.  Dec.  21,  and  slie  d.  1803, 
Sept.    25.       Cii.    Sarah,    b.    1742,   July    5;   m.    Frost,    of    Tewksbury. 
John,  14,  b.  1743-4.  Jan.  13.  William,  15,  b.  1748,  April  12.  Thomas, 
h.  1751.  Feb.  27.  and  d.  1796,  June  12.  31icah,  b.  1753,  Oct.  1;  went  to 
Ticonderog-a.  3Ian/.  b.  1756.  April  15;  d.  in  Tewksbury.  AYdmm.Hi,]). 
1759,  May  16.     Oliver,  b.  1762,  Fel).  12. 
7.  Jonathan,  son  of  Jonathan,  3,  b.  1700-1,  p>b.  21;  ni.  1725-6, 
Jan.  19.  Esther  Farley,  dau.  of  (ieoriie.  (}.  lie  lived  east  of  Shawshin 
river,  in  the  part  annexed  to  VVihniniiton,  17.37.  Cli.  Joshna.  b.  1727, 
July  4,  and  d.  .)ulv  5.  Ehcnrzn\  b.  and  d.  1728.  .June  11.  Abigail,  b.  1729, 
Oct.  13,  and  d.  ()ct.  ,20.  Esther,  b.  1730-1,  Vvh.  7.  Jonathan,  b.  1733, 
April  7.     iMan/^  h.  1735,  May  26.     Samwil,  b.  1737,  Sept.  7. 
8.  Josiail,  son  of  Jonatlian,  3,  b.  1708,  May  22;  ni.  1731,  Dec.  2, 
Susanna  Davis,  dau.  of  dea.  Josei)li,  1.  Tlie  two  latter  children  were  born 
in  Tewksbury.  Ch.  Josiah,  b.  1733,  Oct.  14.  Jesse,  b.  1738,  May  10. 
Susanna,  b.  1741.  Dec.  16;    ni.  .John  Pollard.  3. 
9.  John,  son  of  Thomas.  4,  b.  ICOO.  Nov.  10;  m.  1726.  May  4.  Sarah 
Hill.  dau.  of  Samuel,  jr.,  10,  and  pi-ol).  1758,  Feb.  21,  Elizabeth  i'arldiurst, 
of  Chelmsford.  Ch.  Katharine,  b.  1727,  Sept.  25;  ni.  Nathaniel  Cummings. 
Sarah,  b.  1729.  Aug.  27.  and  d.  Sept.  13.  John.  17,  b.  1731,  Nov.  1. 
Jonas,  b.  1734,  Oct.  29,  and  d.  Feb.  10.  Martha,  b.  1736,  Sept.  27,  and  d. 
Dec.  7.  Joseph,  b.  1739,  Dec.  8,  and  d.  March  1.  Jeremiah,  b.  1741-2, 
Jan.  15,  and  d.  Feb.  17.      Tamer,  b.  1743,  Oct.  13,  and  d.  Jan  1. 
10.  David,  son  of  Thomas.  4,  b.  1711.  June  9;  m.  1737,  June  6, 
Sarah  Hill.  dau.  of  Samuel.  6.  She  d.  1750,  April  21,  and  lie  m.  2d,  1752, 
June  18,  Keziu  Beimet.  of  Lancaster.  Ch.  David,  h.  17.38-9,  Jan.  18.  and  d. 
Feb.  13.  Sarah,  b.  1739-40,  Feb.  4;  ni.  1761,  Mav  7,  Joseph  Eocke,  of 
Lexington.  Ursle,  b.  1741-2,  Jan.  10,  and  d.  Feb.  7.  Deborah,  b.  1743, 
June  26,  and  d.  1744,  March  22.  llizpah.  b.  1746.  Dec.  15,  and  d.  1749, 
May  6.  Solomon,  b.  1750,  April  15,  and  d.  April  17.  Kezia,.  b.  1753, 
April  10.  Hannah,  b.  1754,  Nov.  19;  in.  Asa  Patten,  13.  Abigail,  b.  1756, 
Feb.  2.  David,  b.  1758,  Aug.  20;  m.  1792,  July  12,  Euhaniah  Davis, 
of  Chelmsford.     Lnn/,  b.  1760,  Sept.  11. 
11.  Samuel,  soil  of  Thomas.  4,  b.  1713,  April  12;  ni.  1754,  Dec.  10, 
Elizabeth  Hoslev.  the  widow  of  John,  3.  She  d.  1779.  March  31,  and  he  d. 
1797,  Jan.  8.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1755,  July  12;  in.  Joseph  Farmer,  12. 
Bachel,  b.  1757,  April  5.  (The  baptismal  record  names  this  child  Martha). 
Fhebe,  b.  1759,  Nov.  17;   m.  Thomas  Craig. 
12.  Benjamin,  son  of  Thomas,  4,  b.  1724,  April  9;  m.  1747,  Ai)ril  2, 
Sarah  Pollard,  dau.  of  Edward.  2.  Ch.  Benjamin,  b.  1747,  Dec;.  21,  and  d. 
1749,  Sept.  6.  Jeremiah,  b.  1749,  July  23;  m.  1780,  April  11,  Pebecca 
Totman.  Sarah,  b.  1751,  Aug.  1;  m,"  Joseph  Foster,  10.  Elisabeth,  b. 
1753,  Sept.  27;  in.  Jonathan  Bayley.  Benjamin,  b.  1755,  Dec.  1;  in.  1784, 
Sept.  12,  Betty  Davis,  widow  of  Joshua,  3.  Salomon,  b.  1758,  Feb.  19,  and 
d.  June  21.  Bhoda,  b.  1759,  June  26;  m.  1781,  Feb.  20,  John  Frye,  of 
Andover.  Patte,  b.  1761,  Aug.  12;  ni.  Nahuin  Baldwin,  16.  JRizpah.  b. 
1763,  Sept.  10;  m.  Edward  Fanner,  IG.  Allice,  b.  1766,  May  14;  m.  1785, 
July  16.     Olii-e,  b.  1769,  March  5. 
13.  Thomas,  son  of  Thomas.  5,  b.  1723-4,  Feb.  22;  m.  1759, 
March  8,  Aliigail  Pollard,  dau.  of  Edward,  2.  Ch.  Isaac,  b.  1760,  May  22. 
Abigail,  b.  lf61.  Sept.  22;  in.  Jesse  Manning,  17.  Abel.  b.  1764,  July  23. 
Zilpah.  b.  1767.  Oct.  2. 
14.  John,  son  of  William,  6,  b.  1743-4,  Jan.  13;  ni.  1769.  March  17, 
Susannah    Chamberlain.      She    d.,    and    he   m.    a    widow    Sanders,    of 
 - 371 - 
8  BALDWIN. 
Tewksbury.  where   he   lived  unci  had  other  eh.     Ch.   liehecca.  b.   1770, 
April  8. 
15.  William,  son  of  William.  6,  b.  1748.  April  12:  m.  1773.  July  16, 
Susanna  AVilson.  She  d.  1773.  Sept.  1-4.  and  he  ni.  1777,  May  20.  Susanna 
Wilson,  who  d.  1801.  Ai)ril.  aged  48.  He  d.  1802.  April.  Ch.  WWiam,  b. 
1778.  May  24.  and  d.  1708.  Sejjt.  20.  Thomas.  20,  b.  1780,  Jan  2(5.  Francis, 
b.  1782.  3Iareh  21.  and  d.  1805,  Sept.  21.  Sumnna.  b.  1784.  Sept.  17.  and  d. 
1803,  March  17.  John.  21,  b.  1786,  Sept.  1.  »S'rtra^.  b.  1788,  June  3 ;  ni. 
1810.  Nov.  18,  Moses  Foster,  ot  Andover.  Oliver.,  b.  1790,  Aug..  and  d. 
1796,  March  15.  Hcnrii.  22,  b.  1792,  July  27.  Joshua,  b.  1795,'  July  31 ; 
ui.   :   lived  in  Cbarlestown:   d.  1870. 
16.  Nahiim,  son  of  Wllhain.  6,  b.  1759.  May  16;  in.  1783,  Sept.  25, 
Patte  Baldwin,  dau.  of  Benjaniin,  12.  Ch.  Mary.  b.  1784,  April  4;  m. 
Bird.  Slie  d.  after  1850.  and  a  dau.  Mary.  Fatty,  b.  1789.  June  27;  m. 
Thomas  Slicd,  24-.  Bizpah.  b.  1791,  May  8;  not  m.  Mihuni,  b.  1793, 
Nov.  10;   not  m. 
17.  John,  son  of  John.  9,  b.  1731,  Nov.  1;  m.  1758.  Feb.  3.  Elizabeth 
Parkhurst,  of  Chelmsfoi-d.  ('h.  John.  b.  1759.  Marcli  3.  Timothy,  b.  1762, 
April  13;  m.,  and  lived  in  Lyndeboro',  X.  H.  ;  had  two  sons.  John  and 
Joel.  23.  Bptty.  b.  1763.  July  27;  m.  Asa  Marshall.  Joel.  h.  1766.  May  8; 
d.  unmarried.  Asa.  b.  1770,  Nov.  15;  m.  1795,  Feb.  11,  Kuth  Kidder. 
Sarah,  b.  1776.  Jan.  5. 
18.  Reuben,  m.  1787.  Nov.  13,  Sarah  Farmer,  dau.  of  Edward.  10. 
He  was  drownetl  1807,  Mav  13.  Ch.  Edward  Farnifv.  b.  1788,  April  5. 
Sally,  b.  1790,  Aug.  6.  Bizpah.  b.  1794.  JulyJ5;  m.  1818,  Dec.  6.  Henry  H. 
Merrill.  Almeria.  b.  1796.  April  24.  Jonathan,  b.  1798.  April  7.  Hannah 
Farmer,  b.  1800,  Julv  12.  George,  b.  1803.  April  11.  3Iary.  b.  1806, 
Feb.  22.  
"^ 
19.  Abel.  Name  on  tax-list.  1766-78,  and  he  m.  1767.  Jan.  21, 
Abigail  Frencli,  dau.  of  Ebenezer,  14.     No  children  are  recorded. 
20.  Thomas,  son  of  William,  15,  b.  1780,  Jan.  26;  m.  1804,  Aug.  5, 
Lydia  Brown.  He  d.  1811,  Aug.  28.  Ch.  Susan  Wilson,  bap.  1805, 
Nov.  17.     William,  bap.  1807.  April  19.     Louisa,  bap.  1807.  Sept.  20. 
21.  John,  son  of  William,  15,  b.  1786,  Sept.  1;  m.  1810,  Nov.  15, 
Clarissa  Parker,  dau.  of  Isaac,  of  Andover.  She  d.  1867,  May  28,  aged  75. 
Col.  Baldwin  was  a  leading  and  influential  citizen;  often  called  to 
important  otfii-es;  d.  1875,  June  25.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1811,  June  29.  Clarissa, 
b.  1813,  May  23;  d.  1814.  Oct.  22.  John.  24,  b.  1815,  May  25.  Francis, 
26,  b.  1817",  June  18.  Mary.  b.  1819.  Nov.  0;  m.  Charles  H.  Parker.  25. 
Ellen,  b.  1821.  April  23;  d."l825.  Sept.  14.  Elizabeth  Caldwell,  b.  1824, 
Aug.  19. 
22.  Henry,  son  of  William.  15,  b.  1792.  July  27;  m.  1819.  June  20, 
Anne  Whiting,  dau.  of  dea.  Sanuiel,  12  He  was  a  merchant  and  lived  on 
the  east  side  of  the  counnon;  d.  1846,  June  1,  and  his  widow,  1874,  July  28. 
Ch.  Henry  Augustus,  b.  1821,  March  12;  d.  1853.  Feb.  11.  Samuel  Whiting, 
b.  1824,  March  8.  He  was  the  first  soldier  drafted  from  town  in  the  war, 
and  responded  promptly,  doing  brave  and  good  service.  Mary  Ann,  b. 
1825.  Sept.  7;  d.  1828,  Sept.  George  F.,  b.  1827,  Sept.  17;  d.  1850, 
Jan.  26. 
23.  Joel,  son  of  Timothy,  of  Lyndeboro".  N.  H.,  and  grandson  of 
John.  17,  m.  Mary  Fry.  He  removed  from  Lyndeboro"  to  Billerica.  1825, 
and  lived  west  of  the  Shawshin  river,  at  the  first  place  south  of  the 
Wilmington  road.  He  d.  1850,  April  19,  aged  54.  Ch.  John  Fry,  b.  1823, 
March  14.  Joel,  26,  b.  1824,  Aug.  24.  Mary  Ann.  b.  1826.  Dec.  4;  m. 
William  Mannhig.  (.see  15).  Charlotte  Fry.  b.  1830,  June  18;  d.  1832, 
July  14.  Charles  Henry,  b.  1834,  Jan.  8;  d.  1837.  May  25.  William  Henry, 
b.  1838.  Jan.  14;   m.  Mary  Balkani  and  lives  in  Lowell. 
24.  John,  son  of  "John,  21,  b.  1815.  March  25;  m.  Lucy  Ann 
Mears.  He  now  lives  in  Chicago.  Ch.  John  Albert,  b.  1837,  Nov.  6. 
Herbert  Livingston,  b.  1843,  Feb.  1. 
 - 372 - 
BALDWIN— BEARD.  9 
25.  Francis,  son  of  John,  21,  b.  1817.  .Time  IS;  ni.  1839,  Nov.  28, 
Rachel  Ann  Parker,  of  AVihniugton.  He  d.  1878,  Dec.  IS.  Ch.  Frank 
Stanley,  b.  1841.  Oct.  26;  d.  1819.  Feb,  2.  Ellen,  b.  1843,  Feb.  17;  d. 
Sept.  2.  Langdon  Williams,  b.  184.5.  April  13,  and  d.  Oct.  13.  Annie 
Gilbert,  b.  1847.  Sept.  12;  m.  Prof.  Samuel  Tucker.  Catherine  Gillis.  b. 
1851.  March  20;   m.  Fred.  H.  Parker,  (see  24).     Henrij.  b.  1804,  May  28. 
26.  Joel,  sou  of  Joel.  23,  b.  1824.  Aug.  24;  m.  Elizal)eth  Trull,  of 
Tewksbury.  C'h.  Annie  Miranda,  b.  18.50,  Dec.  27;  m.  Joseph  Jaquith, 
{see  9).     Joel  Washington,  b.  1853.  Feb.  1, 
BALLARD,  Jonathan,  m.  1722.  Aug.  30.  Hannah  Kidder,  dau.  of 
Ephraim.  3.  Ch.  Jonathan,  b.  1723,  Aug.  16.  Ephraim.  b.  1725,  May  6. 
Hannah,  b.  1726.  Oct.  28. 
BARKER,  Hiram  Parker,  b.  in  Hard^vick.  Mass..  1838,  Nov.  3;  m. 
1863.  March  19.  Carolina*  Frances  Harrington,  dau.  of  Zadoc.  Ch.  George 
Hiram,  b.  1863,  Aug.  7.     Edward  Augustus,  b.  1864,  Nov.  5. 
BARRETT.  1.  Oliver,  is  on  tax-Ust,  1768-70.  Ch.  Benjamin  Fish, 
bap.  1770,  Jan.  21.      . 
2.  Stephen,  perhaps  son  of  Col.  James,  of  Concord;  m.  1781,  April  8, 
Lucy  Kidder,  dau.  of  Ephi-aim.  15.  Ch.  Stephen.  3,  b.  1781.  Sept.  11. 
John.  b.  1784.  Feb.  1.  Lucy.  b.  1786,  Feb.  16.  Sally,  b.  1791.  June  15. 
Polly,  b.  1793,  Oct.  1;  m.  1815.  Jan..  John  Kichards.  Lucinda.  b.  1799. 
May  26.     Martha,  b.  1801.  March  5.     Abigail,  b.  1804.  June  28. 
'3.  Stephen,  son  of  Stephen.  2,  b.  1781.  Sept.  11;  m.  1807.  May  10, 
Olive  Eogers,  widow  of  Thomas,  17,  who  d.  1848,  Sept.  2.  Ch.  Thomas 
Bogers,  b.  1809,  March  4. 
4.  Stephen,  of  Medford.  m.  1805.  Nov.  28.  Lucretia  Da^^s,  dau.  of 
Timothy,  5,  and  1810,  May  22,  Christina  G.  Welsh.  Ch.  Lucretia,  b.  1806, 
Sept.  6. 
BARRON.  1.  Samuel,  and  wife  Sarah.  Ch.  Jane,  b.  1736,  Dec.  1. 
Susanna,  b.  1738,  April  26. 
2.  Moses  and  wife  Elizabeth;  he  d.  1761.  Nov.  4,  and  she  m.  1766, 
Dec,  Samuel  Fowle.  of  Woburu.  Ch.  Isaac,  3,  b.  1750.  Sept.  18. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1753,  Feb.  12.  Bichard,  b.  1756,  April  30 ;  d.  1762,  Aug.  25. 
Moses,  b.  1758,  July  8. 
3.  Isaac,  son  of  Moses.  2,  b.  1750,  Sept.  18;  m.  1772,  June  4,  Anna 
Spaulding.  dau.  of  Asa.  3.  Ch.  Isaac,  b.  1772,  Sept.  12.  Moses,  b.  1776, 
April  26."  Anna,  b.  1781.  July  6.     Isaac,  b.  1783,  Nov.  24. 
BATCHELLER.  1.  Joseph,  m.  1796.  Dec.  15.  Hannah  Trull,  dau.  of 
Samuel.  8.  Ch.  Joseph,  b.  1797.  April  25.  Josiah.  b.  1799.  May  28. 
Hannah,  b.  1800.  Oct.  28 ;  m.  1822.  June  25,  James  H.  Eames.  of  Reading. 
Sophronia,  b.  1802.  May  20 ;  m.  1825,  May  19,  William  Taihtor,  of  Boston. 
Eliza,  b.  1804,  Feb.  20.     Brooks  Trull,  b."l813.  Jan.  7. 
2.  Isaac,  had  John  Fovler  bap?  1814.  Nov.  27.  Frederick  Augusttis 
Prince,  was  bap.  1812.  May  24.  but  the  father's  name  is  wanting. 
BEAIV,  William,  on  tax-list,  1770-2.    Ch.William.  bapt.  lf72,  April  25. 
BEARD.  1.  Andrew,  was  in  Menotomy,  [Arlington].  1672.  His  son. 
Ebenezer,  was  b.  in  Charlestown.  and  that  .John  and  Simon  were  his 
sons  is  probable.  He  was  in  Billerica  as  early  as  1713;  lived  east  of 
the  Shawshin,  in  the  part  of  the  town  annexed  to  Wilmington,  in  1737. 
He  d.  1717-8,  Jan.  8,  and  his  widow.  Mary.  m.  James  Frost,  5. 
Ch.  John,  2.  Simon,  m.  1725,  Jime  2,  Sarah  Hopkins,  dau.  of 
William.  1.  Ebenezer.  3,  b.  1701-2,  Jan.  1.  Jacob,  4,  b.  1709.  Dec.  26. 
Martha,  b.  1714.  Aug.  21 ;  m.  Jacob  Manning.  9.  Nathan  had  a  guardian, 
1719. 
2.  John,  {see  above),  m.  Hannah.  Ch.  John,  5,  b.  1716.  Aug.  26. 
Aaron,  6,  b.  1717.  Nov.  25.  Andreu-,  b.  1719,  Sept.  11.  3Iary,  b.  1721, 
Aug.  13.  and  d.  1738.  June  11.  David,  7,  b.  1723,  April  19.  Jonathan.  8,  b. 
1725.  May  9.     Xathan,  9,  b.  1728.  Oct.  3. 
3.  Ebenezer,  son  of  Andrew.  1,  b.  1701-2.  Jan.  1;  m.  Esther. 
Ch.  Esther,  b.  1725,  June  27 ;  
m.  1757.  Feb.  15,  Nathaniel  Cutler,  of  Wobum. 
 - 373 - 
10  BEARD. 
Prob.  Ehvnczrr.  10,  and  some,  if  not  all.  of  the  following:  Samuel.  11, 
Isaac,  12,   Ahi}"h,  13,   Jusiah.  14,   an;l    Bnijamin,  15. 
4".  Jacob,  son  of  Andrew.  1,  b.  1709,  Dec.  2G;  m.  Abigail;  lived  in 
Wilmington.  Ch.  Ahiquih  b.  1737.  July  11.  Jacob,  b.  1738.  .lul}"  2,  an;l  d. 
1739.  ]NJareh  10.  Jacob,  b.  1741.  Dec;  m.  1776.  Feb.  22,  Olive'Hazeltino. 
J/'H'?/.  b.  1744.  Aug.  20;  m.  Josiah  Cutler,  of  Medford.  Martha,  b.  1747. 
March  22;  ni.  Ezra  Baldwin.  Abi(/ail,  b.  1750.  Sept.  3;  m.  Jonathan 
Baldwin,  jr.     Eubm.  h.  1752.  March  10.  and  Bi(tJi,  bap.  1756,  Feb.  8. 
5.  John,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  1716.  Aug.  26;  ni.  Hannah;  lived  in 
Wilmington.     Ch.  John.  Id,  b.  1745.  April  3.     Joseph,  h.  1747.  Se])t.  27. 
lived 6.in  "Aaron,^\  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1717.  Nov.  25;  m.  Susanna  — -; 
ilmington.     Ch.  Aaron,  b.  1742.  Aug.  4. 
7.  David,    son  of    Jolm.    2,    b.    1723.    April   19;   m.   Hannah   ; 
lived  in  Wilmington.  Ch.  Stephen,  b.  1771,  Dec.  26.  James,  b.  1774. 
Jan.  15.     Aarnn.^h.  1775,  April  11.     Hannah,  b.  1778.  Nov.  21. 
8.  Jonathan,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1725,  May  9;  m.  1746,  May  15, 
Deborah    Buck;   lived  in   Wilmington.     Ch.  Mar/f.  h.  1747.  April  20;    m. 
Timothy  Baldwin.    Jonathan,  b.  iTol.  Nov.  23;   m.  Abigail   .  and  had 
6  ch. 
9.  Nathan,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  1728.  Oct.  23;  m.  1754.  Sept.  2G.  Mary 
Flagg;  lived  in  Wilmington.  Ch.  Lydia.  b.  1755.  April  4.  Nathan,  b.  1756. 
March  30;  m.  1778.  Nov.  24.  Sarah  Fames.  Enth.  b.  1758.  Nov.  9. 
Hannah,  b.  1760.  Aug.  20.  iMollie.  b.  1762,  April  28.  Al>el,  b.  176(?), 
Feb.  11.     A1a<jaU.  b.  N67.  March  16. 
10.  Ebeiiezer,  prob.  son  of  Ebenezer,  3,  m.  Catherine   .     She  m. 
2d,  1789.  Sept.  2,  IJeuben  Butters  ;  lived  in  Wilmington.  Ch.  El>enezer.  b. 
1752.  Feb.  12;  m.  1782.  Sept.  26,  Lvdia  Jenkins;  had  Abigail  and  Ebenezer, 
Elijah,  b.  1754,  March  27.  Edimrd.  b.  1756.  Sept.  1 ;  m.  1783.  .Vpril  10. 
Polly  Burt;  had  Edward  and  others.  AJnyail.  b.  1759.  Marcli  7.  Catharine, 
b.  1762,  Feb.  15.    Elijah,  b.  1765,  Sept.  3;  ^n.  1785.  March  17.  Phebe  Jones. 
11.  Sainnel,  (sre3),  m.  1759.  Jan.  25.  Rebecca  Butters;  lived  in 
Wilmington.  Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1759,  Dec.  22.  Rebecca,  b.  1761,  Nov.  14. 
Hepsil}a)i,  b.  1773.  Jan.  25;   m.  1803.  Sept.  4,  Benjamin  Foster. 
12.  Isaac,  {see^i),  m.  1762.  Dec.  16.  Eebecca  Jaquith.  His  name  on 
B.  tax-Hst,  after  1773.  Ch.  prob.  Isaac.  17.  Jonas,  b.  1764.  NT)v.  26. 
liebecca.  b.  1766.  Feb.  4.  Esther,  b.  1769.  Feb.  15;  m.  Benjamin  Beard.  18. 
Ira,  h.  1779.  Sept.  3.     Sarah,  bap.  1786.  Jan.  8. 
13.  Abijah,  (f^'-e  8),  m.  1763,  Dec.  8.  Hannah  Frost,  dau.  of  John,  12. 
Name  disa])i)ears  from  tax-list,  1777.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1764,  Nov.  15. 
Abijah,  b.  1767,  June  25;  m.  Abigail  Stickney,  dau.  of  William,  5,  and 
lived  in  Grafton  and  Bridgewater,  Vt.  Sarah,  b.  1770,  Sept.  23.  John 
Frost,  b.  1773,  Jan.  12.   Abigail,  b.  1775,  Nov.  4. 
14.  Josiali,  (seeS).  m.  1765.  April  11,  Elizabeth  Crosby,  dau.  of 
Nathan,  12,  and  1784,  Dec.  29,  Sarah  Paige,  of  Bedford,  dau.  of  John,  5. 
No  children  recorded. 
15.  Benjamin,  (see  3),  m.  1767.  Feb.  3,  Abigail  Clark.  Ch.  Benjamin, 
18,  b.  1768.  May  18. 
16.  John,  son  of  John,  5,  b.  1745.  April  3;  ni.  1765,  May  30,  Sarah 
Walker,  dau.  of  Joseph.  6.  She  d.  1769,  May  31.  and  he  m.  Nov.  16, 
Abigail  Kemp,  of  Chelmsford.  Ch.  3Ioses.  b.  1766.  April  22.  Joseph  and 
Jifajv/.  b.  1768.  Aug.  5;  d.  Aug.  5  and  7.  ^flj'fl/i,  b.  1770,  Nov.  1.  Jonathan, 
b.  1775,  Dec.  31. 
17.  Isaac,  (see  12).  m.  1791.  Sept.  1.  Polly  Eichardson.  He  lived  on 
the  Woburn  road,  near  the  Burlington  line.  Ch.  Man/,  b.  1791,  Nov.  22. 
Isaac,  b.  1794.  Oct.  13.  Behrcea.  b.  1797.  Mav  20.  Esther,  b.  1800,  March  3. 
Jonas,  b.  1802.  Feb.  27.  Clarissa,  b.  1804,'  March  5.  Hezekiah.  b.  1806, 
June  28.     Benjamin,  b.  1809.  Feb.  20.     Artemas.  b.  1811.  May  11. 
18.  Benjamin,  son  of  Benjamin.  15,  h.  1768,  Mav  18;  m.  1798, 
Dec.  30.  Esther  Beard,  dau.  of 'Isaac,  12.  She  d.  1846.  Aug.  23.  He 
lived  on  the  East  road,  where  his  daughter,  Mrs.  Holden,  now  lives. 
Ch.  Amaiida  Bebecca  Jaquith,  b.  1803,  July  31 ;  m,  Asa  Holden. 
 - 374 - 
 - 375 - 
MUS.    .lOSHUA     15ENNKTT. 
 - 376 - 
 - 377 - 
 - 378 - 
BEARD  —  BIRD.  H 
19.  Benjamin  F.,  perhaps  son  of  Isaac.  17,  in.  1833,  April  4, 
Betsey  C.  Goodwin,  dau.  of  Reuel.     Ch.  Uriah  Gooduiii.   h.  1845.  Feb.  4. 
20.  Benjamin,  ni.  Susan.     Ch.  George  Henry,  h.  1845,  Aug.  23. 
21.  Daniel,  son  of  Jafol).  of  AVihnington  ;  ni.  1804,  Dec.  20.  Rebecca 
Clark,  of  Chelmsford. 
BELL,  John,  appears  on  tax-list.  1766.  and  a  widow.  Mary  Bell,  prob. 
his  mother.  1761-70.  His  n-ame  disappears,  1785.  Ch.  J<iJt)i.  bab.  1776. 
Nov.  17.  .hihii.  bap.  177!),  July  25.  Eliah.  ba^).  1781.  Jan.  14.  William. 
bap.  1782.  Dec.  3.     Daniel,  bap.  1784,  June  13. 
BENNETT.  James,  of  Groton,  (statement  of  his  granddaughter,  Mrs. 
McPherson,  of  Chelmsford,)  was  the  father  of  Stephen.  1,  and  James,  2, 
who  appear  on  the  tax-list  of  Billerica  in  1780.  He  had  other  sons, 
Jonathan.  Thomas,  and  Joseph,  and  was  prob.  himself  the  son  of  Moses 
and  Anna  Blanchard  Bennett,  and  b.  1736,  Dec.  5.  The  father  of  Moses 
was  prob.  James,  of  Groton,  in  1704,  and  of  Scotch  descent.  The  brothers, 
Stephen  and  James,  settled  near  Burlington  line,  south-east  of  Shawshin 
school-house. 
1.  Stephen,  {see  above,)  is  prob.  the  same  who,  with  wife  Elizabeth, 
had  John.  b.  in  Groton,  1775,  Dec.  25.  Other  ch.  named  by  Mrs. 
McPherson  were  Stephen.  Thomas.  Frank,  James.  Samuel.  Jonas.  Keziah. 
Bannah.  m.  1801,  Sept.  3.  Giles  Alexander,  Betsey,  Sarah,  and  Rehecca,  and 
two  othei's.  , 
2.  James,  had  ch.  Polly,  b.  about  1785  ;  m.  1834,  July  20,  James  C. 
McPherson.  and  is  living  in  Chelmsford.     Nancy,  ni.  Joseph  T.  Bowers.  9. 
Lucy.  ni.    1822.    April  28.    Reuben  Richardson,    of  Dracut.     James,  m.   
Nevers.  and  lived  in  Burlington.  Edward,  m.  1806.  June  8,  Rebecca 
Richardson,  dau.  of  Ebenezer.  18,  and  lived  in  Burlington.  Joshua.  3,  b. 
1792.  Nov.  27. 
3.  Joshua,  son  of  James,  2,  b.  1792.  Xov.  27.  He  was  for  some 
years  a  teacher  in  Dorchester,  and  afterwards  was  in  business  in  Boston,  in 
the  firm  of  Bennett  &  Felton.  He  accumulated  a  large  propert3^  At  his 
death  he  left  legacies  to  the  clmrches  in  town.  He  lived  on  the  west  side 
of  Long  street, "in  the  north  part  of  the  village,  where  his  Avidow  still  has 
her  home  in  a  genial  and  beneficent  old  age.  She  has  recently  made 
proposals  to  thetown  which  will  probably  result  in  the  founding  of  a 
public  librar_y.  He  in.  1815,  Oct.  8.  Eleanor  Richardson,  dau.  of 
Ebenezer.  18,  and  d.  1865,  Aug.  6.  Ch.  Ellen,  b.  1816,  Feb.  15;  m. 
George  Holden.  (see  2).  Hehecca,  b.  1818.  June  19;  m.  1837,  Oct.  17, 
William  Wilklns  ^Varren,  Avho  was  b.  1814;  son  of  Isaac,  of  West 
Cambridge,  whose  wife  Frances  was  dau.  of  Dr.  William  Wilkins,  and 
granddaughter  of  Rev.  Dr.  Cumings.  This  volume  is  indebted  to  him  for 
the  portrait  of  Dr.  Cumings.  He  was  a  merchant  at  St.  Thomas.  1830-40; 
resides  now  in  Boston. 
BICKFORD,  Dr.,  Hezekiah  C,  was  born  in  Xew  London,  N.  II.. 
1816;  graduated  Jeilerson  Medical  College,  Philadelphia,  1845.  and 
practised  his  profession  six  years,  in  New  London,  1851-61,  in  Billerica, 
and  1861-76.  in  Charlestown;  a  skilful  and  beloved  physician.  He.  m.  1846, 
June  17,  Paulina  Augusta  Coburn.  Slie  d.  1867,  Nov.  29,  and  he  m.  1869, 
April  22.  Abigail  Gray,  dau.  of  AA'illiam,  3.  He  d.  in  \Vol)urn.  1878, 
March  23,  aged  60.  Ch.  Georrje  C'o?)?;/';^  b.  1847.  March  25.  John  Truman. 
b.  1849.  April  2;   d.  1853,  Jan.  24.     Harriet  Augusta,  b.  1853.  June  20. 
BIRD,  8imon,  came  to  Boston  in  1635,  aged  20.  AVith  five  others,  in 
October,  1635,  he  was,  by  the  Court,  oj-dered  to  be  -'whii:)!  for 
runing  from  their  maisters,  and  for  stealeing  a  boat  and  dyvrs  other 
things."  He  lived  at  Chelsea,  but  in  1659,  3m,  •I''-,  he  received  from 
Billerica  a  ten-acre  lot.  His  house  lot  contained  "fifty-two  acres  lying 
noithward  of  the  township,  and  on  ye  Avest  of  Chelmsford  road,  and 
southward  of  Abofs  bridge,  bounded  by  Chelmsford  road  on  ye  east 
ninety-five  pole,  and  by  John  Rogers,  sen.,  south,  by  John  Bracket,  north 
by  ye  great  river  west."     Abot's  bridge  was  at  the  brook  by  Mr.  Burns" 
 - 379 - 
12  BIKD  —  BLANCH  ARD. 
place,  and  Bird's  lot  included  Mr.  Stackpole's  i)lace  and  a  large  part  of  the 
Dea.  Amos  Spalding-  place.  He  d.  l(i()(i.  July  7.  leaving  no  children,  but  a 
widow,  Mary,  who  m.  Henry  .lefts.  In  1(580.  jiortions  of  liis  land  were 
deeded  by  .lefts,  as  administrator,  under  execution,  to  various  creditors, 
among  whom  were  the  church  and  Jicv.  Mr.  Whiting. 
BLANCH  ARD.  1.  John,  was  son  of  Sanuiel,  of  Andovei-,  whose 
father  Tliomas  cMwe  to  CharlestoANii  in  1(33!).  He  was  b.  1(>77.  .July  li\  m. 
1701.  Aug.  7,  Mary  Crosby,  dau.  of  Simon.  1,  and  lived  prob.>  near  Dr. 
Noyes"  place.  She  d.  1748.  May  7.  He  d.  1750.  Ai)ril  10.  Susanna 
Blanchard,  who  m.  .lonathan  Farwell,  of  Chelmsford,  1723,  May  20,  was 
perhaps  sister  of  .John.  Ch.  Mai-ij.  b.  1702.  Aug.  IS.  Hannah,  h.  1704, 
Oct.  24.  liachoJ.  b.  170(5-7.  Feb.  2.  AMgaU.  b.  1708-9.  .J:in.  23.  /S'rtmA.  b. 
1711.  .Tune  5,  and  d.  .Ivme  8.  Sarah,  h.  1712,  May  23.  and  d.  1713,  Apiil  1(5. 
John.  b.  1713-14,  March  15.  and  d.  :March  18.  John.  2,  h.  1714-15.  Fel).  15. 
Samuel.  3,  b.  1717,  Aug.  17.  iJarid.  b.  1719-20.  March  20.  Bcujaniin.  b. 
1722.  .lulv  5.     Simon.  4,  b.  172.5-(),  March  1(5. 
2.  John,  son  of  .Tohn,  1.  b.  1714-15,  Feb.  15;  m.  1739,  Nov.  29, 
Elizabeth  Kicliardson.  dau.  of  ^{ndrew.  4.  He  d.  1756,  July  27,  and  she  m. 
Braviter  Gray.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1740-1,  Jan.  14;  m.  Thomas  Ditson.  4. 
John,  6,  b.  1743,  July  24.  Abigail,  b.  1746,  Oct.  13;  m.  1773,  Dec.  14, 
Nathan  Parker,  of  Cambridge.  Lemuel,  b.  1749,  July  1;  living  in 
Cambridge.  1778.  Jonah,  b.  1752.  June  4.  Fan!,  b.  1754,  April  2. 
Hannah,  b.  1756,  Nov.  22;   m.  Solomon  Hill.  20. 
3.  Samuel,  son  of  .John,  1,  b.  1717,  Aug.  17;  m.  1747,,  July  14,  Mary 
Brown,  dau.  of  William.  6.  He  d.  1807.  :March  26.  She  d.  1811.  Marcli  .1 
Ch.  3Innj.  h.  1747-8,  Jan.  28.  Samuel.  6,  b.  1748-9.  March  6.  William,  b. 
1750.  March  21.  Sarah,  b.  1754.  .Jan.  31;  m.  Benjamin  Lewis.  Timothy. 
b.  1755.  Oct.  16;  wounded  at  Lexington.  Martha,  (record  of  baptism  says 
Nathan),  b.  1757,  Aug.  2;   m.  Benjamin  Blanchard,  of  Wilton.     lihoda.  b. 
1762.  Nov.  17;  in.  1786.  Jan.  26.  Sanuiel  Abbot.  Jeremiah.  7,  b.  1764, 
July  10.     Ahimaaz.  b.  1767,  April  26.     Jonathan,  b.  17(59.  Feb.  20. 
4.  Simon,  son  of  .John,  1,  b.  172.5-6.  March  1(5;  m.  1746,  Dec.  17, 
Rebecca  Sheldon,  dau.  of  Sanuiel.  3.  He  d.  1796,  April  20.  She  d.  1814, 
March  3.  Cli.  Deborah,  bap.  1748.  Oct.  23.  Simon.  8,  b.  1749,  Dec.  23. 
Jothan.  9,  b.  1752,  March  6.  liebecca.  b.  1754,  March  20;  in.  (Jeorge 
Abbot,  11.  Abijah.  b.  1756,  March  24.  Justus,  b.  17.58,  Nov.  22,  (the 
baptismal  record  says  Eufus).    Isaac.  10,  b.  1761,  Jan.  15.     Susanna,   b. 
1763,  April  2;  m.  .Job  Hill.  24.  Joseph.  11,  1).  1765,  Oct.  17.  Asenath. 
b.   1768,  March  17 ;    in.  Michael  Crosby.  32. 
5.  John,  son  of  John,  2,  h.  1743,  July  24;  m.  Sarah.  His  first 
child  was  born  in  Marblehead,  and  he  lived  in  Charlesto-\\n.  1768. 
Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1767,  Aug.  12.  Salle,  b.  1771,  May  16.  A->nah.  b.  1772, 
Nov.  4;  m.  1797,  .Jan.  24,"  Ezra  Johnson.  John.  12,  b.  1774,  May  17. 
Francis,  13,  b.  1775,  Oct.  1.  Luce,  b.  1777,  March  10.  Elisha.  b.  1779, 
June  17.  Josiah.  b.  1781,  June  12.  and  lived  in  Whitingham,  Vt.  ;  m. 
Rachel  Clements,  of  Dracut;   had  sixteen  children,  and  d.  1853,  Aug.  13. 
6.  Samuel,  son  of  Samuel.  3,  b.  1748-9,  March  6;  m.  1779,  Dec.  23. 
Mary  Hill,  dau.  of  Peter.  17.  Ch.  prob.  Samuel,  jr.,  who  had  I^ydla.  bap. 
1806,  Dec.  21.  3Iary,  bap.  1781.  July  1;  m."  1808.  March  "l.  Cyrus 
Blanchard.  of  Milford,  N.  H.  Jnclith.  bap.  1782.  Sept.  1 ;  m.  1804,  Feb.  12. 
Cyrus  Blanchard.  Len.  b.  1784.  Nov.  7.  Sewall.  Erving  and  Silence, 
bap.  1793,  Nov.     Alden.  bap.  1795,  Nov. 
.  7.  Jeremiah,  son  of  Samuel.  3,  b.  1764.  .July  10;  m.  1795.  June  17, 
Mary  Going;  he  d.  1819,  May  22 ;  lived  at  the  Odiorne  place,  now  occupied 
by  I)r.  Noyes.  Ch.  Jeremiah,  b.  1797.  Jan.  26;  d.  1820,  Jan.  10.  He  was 
secretary  of  the  first  governor  of  Arkansas.  John  (ioven.  h.  1799.  .Jan.  30. 
Studeiit'at  Harvard  College.  Went  to  Maryland  and  studied  law.  but  never 
practiced  that  profession.  Became  an  Episcopal  clergyman  in  1824.  Rector 
of  St.  Anne's  parish,  Annapolis.  1826;  m.  1826,  .Jan.  5.  Elizabeth  Hance 
Philpot;  d.  1834,  Oct.     He  had  ch.  EUzabeth  P.,  Edward  Wyatt,  a  lawyer, 
 - 380 - 
BLANCHARD  —  HLODGETT.  13 
in  Baltimore,  tl.  1877.  Aug.  29.     John  J.  d.  aged  17.  and  AVilliam.  now  of 
New  \ork.       Mart/,  h.  ISOl.  Sept.  7;    ni.  .Tames  Jaques.  of  AVilminoton 
Sophia,  h.  1803.  Nov.  27.  and  d.   181().  June  22.     Adeline,  b.  1805.  Dee.  8- 
m.  John  Tyler,  of   Boston;  d.  1875.  Jan.  9.     Jilwda,  h.  1815,  and  d.  1817' 
May  5.  ' 
8.  Simon,  son  of  Simon.  4,  b.  1740,  Dec.  23;  m.  1774,  Jan.  20, 
Catharine  AVyman.  dau.  of  Increase.  Removed  about  177(j,  to  Milford] 
N.  H.,  where  he  d.  about  1828.  His  widow  d.  1838.  ("h.  Dennisvn,  b.  1775,' 
June  4.  Abijnh.  bap.  1778.  Feb.  22.  Others  b.  in  Milford  were  Amaziah, 
Luther.  Calvin,  Clara.  Xanrt/.  Betsey.  Lydia,  Catherine,  Rebecca. 
9.  Jotham,  son  of  Simon.  4,  b.  1752.  March  G;  m.  1773,  Nov.  2, 
Abigail  Crosby,  dau.  of  Ephraim.  16.  Removed  al)Out  1778.  to  Lyndeboro'', 
N.  H.  (;li.  Jotham,  b.  1774,  Feb.  9.  Asa.  b.  1775.  Nov.  30.  Ephraim, 
b.  1778.  Marcli  1.  Otliers  h.  in  Lyndeboro'  were  Abigail.  Polly,  Rebecca 
Crosby,  Fanny,  and  Sa)Xih. 
10.  Isaac,  son  of  Simon.  4,  b.  1761,  Jan.  15;  m.  1782.  Sept.  12.  Ruth 
Duncklee.  dau.  of  Nathaniel.  He  lived  in  Carlisle.  The  baptismal  register 
gives  the  children.  Isaac.  Abijah.  and  Benjamin.  1788.  Oct.  26.  Cyrus. 
1789,  July  5.  Rnthy.  1790.  Aug.  1.  Susannah.  1796,  July  3.  Simon.  1798^ 
May  27.  Abigail,  1801,  April  5.  Bethiah  Lincoln,  1803.  Aug.  20.  Isaac,  jr., 
lived  in  C'liarlestown;  town  treasurer,  custom-house  officer,  and  deacon  of 
2d  church.  Of  his  children.  Sarah  Stoddard  m.  Henry  K.  Frothingham. 
Vrylena  m.  Richard  Frothingham.  tlie  eminent  historian.  Isaac  AV.  was  an 
officer  of  the  Eagle  Bank,  and  Sampson  S.  was  i)resident  of  the  Hamilton 
Bank. 
11.  Joseph,  son  of  Simon,  4,  b.  1765.  Oct.  17;  m.  1788.  June  10, 
Mehitable  Waters,  of  Carlisle.  She  d.  1794.  June  7,  and  he  m.  1798, 
Nov.  15,  Sarah  Brown,  of  Tewksbury.  Ch.  Mehitable.  b.  1790.  Oct.  5; 
m.  Josiah  Rogers,  20.  Rebecca,  b.  1793.  Sept.  14;  m.  1815.  Oct.  1,  Thomas 
Smiiner,  of  Boston.  Sarah,  b.  1799,  Dec.  17;  m,  Elijah  Stearns,  of 
Walpole.  Mass.,  and  d.  1873.  Eliza,  b.  1801,  Oct.  24;  "lives  in  Lowell. 
Harriet,  h.  1803.  Sept.  16;  m.  Sumner  Crosby,  (see  30).  Joseph,  14, 
b.  1805.  April  22.  iMaria.  b.  1807,  March  20;"d.  1848,  Dec.  Adolphus, 
b.  1809.  May  8;  d.  about  1834.  Henry:  b.  1811.  Sept.  25;  graduated 
Harvard  College.  1834;  m.  Sarah  C.  Farmer,  dau.  of  Jeremiah,  15. 
Physician  in  Marshfield,  Mass..  1840-1864.  and  since,  in  Neponset,  [Boston]. 
His  ch.  Emilv  A.,  Edward  O.,  Rebecca  S..  and  Henrv  S.  Jerusha  Brown, 
b.  1813.  April  20;  d.  1874,  Dec.  Mary  Augusta,  b.  1816,  Oct.  23;  m.  1840, 
Henrv  Worcester,  of  TeA\ks])ury. 
12.  John,  son  of  John,  5",  
Holt,  of  Andover.  Ch.  John    b.  1774,  May  17;  m.  1794,  Oct.  1,  Molly 
Reid  and  Mary  Wyman,  both  bap.  1797, 
Aug.  20. 
13.  Francis,  son  of  John,  5,  b.  1775,  Oct.  1;  m.  1800,  July  16,  Sarah 
Sticknev.  dau.  of  William.  5.  She  d.  1846,  March  10.  Ch.  Francis,  b.  1805. 
William,  15,  b.  1806.  Oct.  5. 
14.  Joseph,  son  of  Joseph,  11,  b.  1805,  April  22;  m.  Rhoda 
Worcester,  of  Tewksburv.  He  d.  1856.  Jan.  15.  Ch.  Caroline,  b.  1843, 
Nov.  10.  Mary.  b.  1845."  July  22.  and  d\1848,  March  9.  Mary.  b.  1848, 
June  22.     Joseph,  b.  1850.  July  17.     Adolphns,  Annie. 
15.  William,  son  of  Francis.  13,  b.  1806,  Oct.  5;  m.  1830,  June  24, 
Lydia  Ann  Poor,  of  Andover.  Mercliant  and  postmaster  for  some  years. 
He  lives  on  Main  street,  opp.  West  street.  Ch.  Ann,  b.  1831,  June  20; 
d.  1834,  Sept.  25.  William  Henry,  b.  1833.  Jan.  6;  m.  1853,  Ann  J.  Burt; 
d.  1861,  Oct.  16.  Catherine  Amelia,  b.  1834,  Sept.  9;  d.  1846.  July  23. 
Emma  Ann,  b.  1839.  Julv  18;  d.  1841.  Sept.  25.  Harriet  Ellen,  b.  1841, 
Mav  11 ;  d.  1850,  March  12.  Mary  Frances,  b.  1844,  April  25.  John  Edtcin. 
b.  1852,  Feb.  11  ;   d.  18.55,  Jan.  1. 
BLODGtETT,  Amos,  of  Lexington,  is  on  tax-list,  1754-55.  Betty, 
bap.  1754,  June  30. 
 - 381 - 
14  BLOOD  —  BOWERS. 
BLOOD,  John  and  Robert,  brothers,  were  sons  of  James,  of  Concord. 
They  b«Hu>iit.  i'arl_v.  the  extensive  <>'rants  made  by  the  General  Court  to 
Mr.  Increasi*  Nowell  and  Kev.  Thomas  Allen,  of  Charlestown.  and  Mr. 
Atherton  Hough,  of  Boston.  These  farms  were  Avest  of  Concord  river, 
and  below  Concord,  ••old  line.*'  and  for  some  years  their  civil  relations 
were  uncertain.  Committees  to  •perambulate'  the  town  lines;  went 
over  the  line  ••with  the  Bloods."  but  they  were  among  the  persons  whose 
taxes  were  in  default,  after  the  troubles  of  167G.  and  were  ordered  by  the 
General  Court  to  pay  thi'Ui  to  Billerioa.  A  few  years  later,  they  made  an 
agreement  with  Concord,  and  were  atterw;u-ds  held  bv  that  town.  John 
was  not  m.,  and  il.  KJD'i.  Oct.  :W.  Kobert  m.  Elizal)eth  Willard,  dau.  of 
Major  Simon,  and  had  12  ch..  but  none  of  their  births  are  recorded  here. 
He'd.  1701.  Oct.  27. 
BLY,  Daniel,  was  in  town,  in  1077.  and  for  a  few  years  after. 
Marhu  of  whom  lie  was  ••y"  reputed  father,"  was  b.  1G77,  June  30. 
May BOHONAN,8;m.  Ananiah,*  son  of  Ananiah;  b.  in  Salisbury,  N.  H.,  1783, 
Lucy  Stanley,  and  1838,  Oct.  28.  Abby  Spaulding,  dau.  of 
Benoni.  She  d.  185G.  Aug.  24.  anil  he  m.  18.56,  Oct.  10,  Almira  Stratton 
Spalding,  her  neice.  He  d.  1859.  May  23,  aged  70,  and  she  m.  George 
Wilkins,  of  Carlisle.  Ch.  born  in  Salisl)ury.  Suphia  B.,  Benjamin  Stanln/,  2, 
b.  1808,  Betsey  E.,  Peter  Bartlett,  3,  Sarah.  Mark  Morrill.  Ahir/ail.  WiJliam 
Brondstreet. 
2.  Benjamin  Stanley,    son  of  Ananiah,   h.   1808;   m.   Louisa  Capen 
and  Abigail   .      He  (l.  18()9,  Dec.  26.     Ch.   Sarah,  Georgiana.  Louisa. 
Alfred  aiid  Alherl.  h.  1840.  May  17. 
3.  Peter  Bartlett,  son  of  Ananiah.  1).  1812,  March  31;  m.  1842. 
Oct.  11,  Susan  E.  Tibbetts.  of  Kochester,  X.  H.  He  has  been  for  many 
years  the  station  agent  of  the  Boston  &  Lowell  railroad.  Ch.  Francis 
Bartlett.  b.  184.'),  July  4;  d.  1872,  Oct.  23.     Harriet  Augusta,  b.  1848,  April  8. 
BOND,  Jonathan,  and  wife  Polly  had  ch.  Leonard,  b.  1800,  March  20. 
Elijah,  h.  1801.  Sept.  29. 
'  
BONNER,  Mary,  m.  1788.  Feb.  4,  William  Hickel.     Margaret  m.  1788, 
March  13.  James  Ingles,  of  Bedford. 
BOWERS.  1.  Jonathan,  ancestor  of  the  family  in  town,  was  b.  in 
Chelmsford.  1074.  .Vpril  13.  son  of  Jerathmeel.  who  was  son  of  George, 
of  Canibi'idge.  and  )j.  lO-oO.  May  2.  He  had  bi-others  Benanuel.  who  in. 
Elizabeth  Dunster.  cousin  of  President  Henry  Duuster.  of  Harvard 
College,  and  lived  in  Charlestown;  and  John,  who  graduated  H.  C.  1049, 
teacher  in  Plymouth  and  New  Haven,  minister  in  Guilford  and  Brandford, 
and  pastor  in  Derby,  Conn.,  1677.  until  death.  1687.  June  14.  Capt. 
Jerathmeel  Bowers,  a  brother  of  our  Jonathan,  lived  in  Chelmsford,  near 
Pawtucket,  and  was  a  leading  citizen.  The  children  of  Capt.  Jonathan 
were  all  born  in  Chelmsford;  he  removed  to  Billerica  before  1729,  as 
his  son  Beniamin  entered  college  from  B.  ;  he  m.  1699.  May  17, 
Hannah  Barrett,  and  d.  1744-5,  Feb.  12.  She  d.  1765,  Oct.  16.  aged  86. 
Ch.  Jerathmeel.  b.  1700.  Jan.  5;  m.  1735-6.  March  17.  Elizabeth  Farley, 
dau.  of  Timothy,  7.  Jonathan,  b.  1701.  July  5;  m.  1726.  June  7,  Mary 
Grimes.  Hannah,  b.  1703,  Xov.  11.  John.  b.  1707.  Sept.  20;  m.  1733, 
Aug.  14.  Anna  Crosby,  dau.  of  Josiah.  5 ;  
he  then  lived  in  Dracut.  William. 
2,  b.  1709,  Jan.  8.  Sarah,  b.  1712,  Feb.  25.  Benjamin,  b.  1713.  March  7; 
graduated  H.  C,  1733;  ordained  at  Middle  Haddan.  Conn..  1740,  Sept.. 
and  d.   there  in   1761.   Jnsiah.  3,  b.  1719-20.  Jan   10. 
2.  William,  son  of  Capt.  Jonathan.  1,  b.  1709,  Jan.  8;  m.  1739-40, 
March  16.  Elizabeth  Tompson.  dau.  of  Benjamin.  2.  She  d.  1740, 
March  28.  and  he  m.  Martha  Winship.  dau.  of  Samuel,  of  Lexington, 
who  d.  1797.  Feb.  '25,  aged  82.  Capt.  AYilliam  Bowers  d.  1799,  Sept.  16. 
Ch.  Elisabeth,  b.  1739-40,  March  15;  m.  1763,  Sept.  15,  John  Parkhurst, 
of  Lexington;  had  no  ch.  ;  d.  1822.  July  9.  Martha,  b,  1742.  Aug.  23;' 
m.  1765,  May  2,  Joshua  Simonds,  of  Lexington,  who  distinguished 
himself,  1775,   April  19.      They  had    8    ch.      He  d.   1805,  July  24.   and 
 - 382 - 
BOWERS.  15 
she  d.  1819,  June  2i.  WiUiam.  4,  b.  1744.  April  23.  Jeremiah,  b.  1748, 
Dsc.  22.  Sarah,  bap.  1750,  May  6.  Jonathan.  5,  b.  1751.  May  is! 
Samuel.  6,  b.  1754..  June  3. 
3.  Josiali,  son  of  Jonathan.  1,  b.  1719-20.  Jan.  10;  ni.  1744.  Jan.  17, 
Abigail  Touipson.  dau.  of  Benjamin,  2.  She  d.  1771,  Nov.  5,  and  he  m. 
177.:!,  Jan.  2S.  Maria,  dau.  of  Rev.  Caleb  Trowbridge,  of  Groton.  She  d. 
1787.  Sept.  29.  aged  5().  He  d.  1794.  April  29.  Ch.  Ahigail.  b.  1744,  Oct.  12 ; 
ni.  1764.  Nov.  29.  Auios  Muzzy,  of  Lexington.  He  d.  1829.  May  2 J.  and 
slie  d.  1838.  Dec.  21.  Their  son.  Amos,  was  father  of  liev.  Artemas 
Bowers  Muzzy,  H.  C,  1821.  pastor  in  Framinghani.  Candn'idgeport,  and 
Concord.  X.  H.  ;  and  William,  H.  C,  1793,  long  pastor  in  Sullivan,  X.  H., 
was  another  son.  Hannah,  b.  1746,  Oct.  23;  d.  1753,  Dec.  16.  Josinh, 
b.  1748,  Dec.  12;  ni.  1774.  Jan.  6,  Hannah  Eichardson.  dau.  of  Josiah,  9. 
She  d.  1823.  Xov.  1.  and  he  d.  1821,  Nov.  17.  oT^/.s-r/z/i,  b.  1751.  Sept.  9; 
d.  1772,  March  11.  Benjamin.  7,  b.  1754,  Feb.  11.  Sarah,  b.  1756,  Feb.  17; 
d.  1766.  July  4.  Andrew,  b.  1758,  Sept.  17;  graduated  H.  C,  1779; 
m.  1799.  Jan.  10,  Polly  Pollard,  dau.  of  Capt.  Solomon,  S,  and  lived  in 
Salisbury,  X.  H.  ;  was  several  years  a  representative  of  that  town  ;  
d.  1832. 
Denisnn.  b.  1761.  May  5.  James,  b.  1763,  Aug.  22;  graduated  H.  C,  1794; 
ordained  at  Marbleliead,  Mass.  ;  rector  of  Episcopal  church  there;  d.  1834. 
Hannah,  b.  1765,  Oct.  28 ;  m.  Kev.  Jacob  Xorton.  of  Weymouth.  Sarah. 
b.  1776,  Dec.  11 ;   m.  Luther  French.  28. 
4.  William,  son.  of  Capt.  AVilliam.  2,  b.  1744.  April  20;  graduated 
H.  C,  1769.  and  practised  medicine  long  and  successfully  in  town.  He  lived 
on  the  south  corner  of  West  street.  Married  Priscilla  Goodrich.  He  d. 
1820.  Nov.  17,  and  she  d.  1834.  March  21.  aged  85.  Ch.  Priscilla.  b.  1781, 
April  19;  d.  1869,  Feb.  22.  3Lmi.  b.  1782,  Dec.  15;  d.  1870,  April  14. 
Fanny,  b.  1786,  Sept.  3;  d.  1871.  March  7.  Ka'a.  b.  1788,  June  8; 
d.  July  12.  William,  b.  1791,  Oct.  4;  d.  1851.  Sept.  16.  The  memory  of 
these  sisters  will  be  perpetuated  by  their  generous  bequests.  Priscilla  left 
her  estate  to  the  Baptist  church  ;  and  Mary  and  Fanny  left  about  $11,090 
to  the  town,  the  income  to  be  used  for  the  benefit  of  the  worthy  poor  of 
the  town. 
5.  Jonathan,  son  of  Capt.  William,  2,  b.  1751.  May  13;  m.  1783, 
May  15,  Dorcas  Abbot,  dau.  of  Oliver.  3.  He  d.  1804.  Feb.  21. 
Ch.'  Alexander,  b.  1783.  May  15. 
6.  Samuel,  son  of  Capt.  AVilliam,  2,   b.   1754.    June  3;   m.   Hannah 
  .  who  d.  1779.  June  1.  and  he  m.  Sarah  Hill,  widow  of  Samuel,  27. 
He  lived  on  the  east  side  of  Woburn  street,  at  the  Fuller  place,  keeping  a 
tavern.  He  d.  1828.  March  2.  and  she  d.  1838.  March  20.  Ch.  Martha. 
b.  1779,  May  21.  Elizabeth,  b.  1781.  April  12.  Caroline  Elliot,  b.  1784, 
Jan.  3;  m.  1811.  June  5,  Samuel  Little,  of  Bucksto^^^l,  Me.  Ann,, 
b.  1787,  Feb.  17;  m.  Eichard  Tliurstnn.  of  Frankport,  Me.  Margaret,, 
b.  1790,  April  16;  m.  1812.  July  12,  Joseph  Bradlev,  Horatio,  b.  1793, 
April  3.     Sarah,  b.  1796.  Feb.  12. 
7.  Benjamin,  son  of  Josiah,  3,  b.  1754.  Feb.  11;  m.  1784,  March  28, 
Silence  Stickney,  dau.  of  Jonathan,  7.  She  d.  1803.  Oct.  16.  Ch.  Anna,, 
b.  1785,  March  14;  m.  1813,  May  7,  Eev.  Joseph  Eichardson,  {see  17). 
Jonathan  Stickney,  8,  b.  1787.  Feb.  1.  Wilder,  b.  1789.  April  13;  m.  Sarah 
Thompson.  Josiah,  b.  1791,  Sept.  1;  graduated  medical  department, 
Y.  C  1816.  He  settled  in  Huntington.  L.  I.,  where  he  gained  high  repute 
as  physician  and  surgeon,  and  in  Setauket  and  Smithtown,  adjoining. 
In  later  life,  adopted  homceopathic  practice,  and  was  one  of  the  original 
members  of  the  American  Institute  of  Homoeopathy.  He  was  in  New 
York,  1850-8.  when  he  returned  to  Billerica  ;  d.  1868.  Xov.  5 ;  twice  m.  but 
had  no  ch.  Joseph  Tompsnn,  9,  b.  1794,  Sept.  21.  Bi-njamin  Frankli".  b. 
1796,  Sept.  30 ;  graduated  1819,  Yale  Medical  School,  and  practised  medicine 
•  
in  Xew  York,  adopting,  like  his  brother,  the  homa?opathic  S5'stem. 
He  d.  1875,  Feb.  7.  Abigail  Tompsnn,  b.  1799.  July  26;  d.  1826.  July  31. 
Harriet,  b.  1801,  Sept.  3;   m.  1825,  May  10,  Thomas  Eowe,  of  Boston. 
 - 383 - 
16  BOWERS  —  BOWMAN. 
8.  Jonathan  Stickney,  son  of  Benjamin.  7,  b.  1787.  Feb.  1 ;  
m.  Hannah 
Wetherbee.  She  il.  IS.')!,  Oct.  4,  aged  66;  and  he  d.  1855,  March  31. 
Ch.  IIininaK  b.  1807,  June  29;  ni.  18->8.  June  24,  JohnEanies.  Henrii.  10, 
b.  1809.  Jan.  24.  George,  b.  1811,  May  24;  ni.  1841,  Aug.  12,  Harriet  L. 
Poor,  of  Andover.  who  d.  1872.  July  15;  no.  ch.  Jane.  b.  1813,  Feb.  19; 
d.  1834,  Oct.  13.  Albert.  11,  b.  "1815,  May  14.  Frances  Ann.  b.  1817, 
Jan.  29;  ni.  Benjamin  H.  Heald.  Ellen  3Iaria.  b.  1822.  April  26;  m. 
George  W.  Wils()n.      Harriet  Silence,  h.  1824.  Oct.  1 ;  
d.  1841,  Jan.  12. 
9.  Joseph  Tompson,  son  of  Benjamin.  7,  b.  1794.  Sept.  21;  m.  1819, 
May  27,  Nancy  Bennett,  dau.  of  James.  2.  Ch.  Josiah,  b.  1820,  April  20. 
Nanci/.  b.  1821,  Dec.  31.     Maria  Francex.  b.  1824,  Jan.  29. 
10.  Henry,  son  of  Jonathan  8.,  8,  b.  1809,  Jan.  24;  m.  Eliza  Ann   . 
Ch.  Mary  Elizabeth,  b.  1842.  Feb.  20.     Frances  Hannah,  b.  1844,  Aug.  25. 
11.  Albert,  son  of  Jonathan  S.,  8,  b.  1815,  May  14;  m.  Hannah  M. 
Lyman,  of  Weston,  who  d.  1880,  Feb.  19.  aged  o3.  Ch.  Ellen  Maria, 
b.  1848,  ]March  27;  m.  1869,  June  22,  George  B.  Ordway.  William  Benton, 
b.  1850.  July  12.  Edward  A.,  b.  1853,  July  23;  d.  Annie  Bichardson, 
b.  1855.  May"  25;  d.     Ahhie  Fmncis.  b.  1857.  April  22  ;  
BOWLEND.  1.  Benjamin  S.  and  w.  Isabella. d.She  m.  2d.  Charles 
Goodwin,  4.  Ch.  Georae.  b.  1805,  April  13.  Mary  Langdon  Wales,  b.  1806, 
Dec.  3. 
2.  John,  ni.  1821,  Nov.  29,  Louisa  Bradley.  Ch.  3fary  Augusta. 
b.  1822.  Oct.  5. 
BOWMAN.  1.  Francis,  is  on  the  tax-lists.  1768-78.  He  was  born  in 
Lexington.  1718.  April  2;  son  of  John,*  (Francis.''  Francis. =  Xathaniel,^ 
of  Watertown  and  Cambridge  Farms)  ;  m.  1756.  June  24.  Sarah  Simonds, 
and  liyed  in  Bedford,  having  ch.  there.  Sarah,  b.  1757,  April  4,  and 
Hannah,  b.  1760.  Noy.  10.  He  liyed  on  the  Lexington  road,  by  the  crossing 
of  the  Middlesex  Turnpike.    Name  disappears  1778. 
2.  Abel,  son  of  Jonas,  and  nephew  of  Francis,  1,  was  b.  in  Bedford, 
1747.  Feb.  12;  m.  Lucy  Needhani.  of  Tewksbury.  Only  his  youngest 
child  was  born  in  Billerica;  he  d.  here.  1822.  July  28.  and  his  widow,  1845, 
March  31.  aged  93.  Ch.  Lnry.  b.  1777.  Jan.  15;  m.  John  Patten.  15. 
Abiqail.  b.  1778.  April  22;  m.  1801.  May  28.  Joel  Marshall,  of  Tewksbury. 
Poihi.  b.  1779.  Dec.  17.  Francis,  b;  1783,  March  12.  Bvth.  b.  1786,  April  4; 
m.  Jeremiah  Crosby,  36.  Abel.  3,  b.  1787,  Dec.  14.  John.  b.  1790, 
March  10;  m.  Catherine  lienox,  and  had  ch.  Adam  and  Charlotte.  Lydia, 
b.  1792.  Aug.  16;  m.  1816,  Feb.,  Eichard  Freeman. 
3.  Abel,  son  of  Abel,  2,  b.  1787,  Dec.  14;  m.  1816,  Feb.  4,  Hannah 
Frothingham  Hunnewell,  of  Charlestown.  He  d.  1829,  April  22. 
Ch.  Wiif'iam  H,  b.  1816,  Nov.  23;  m.  18.53,  April  23,  Ann  McKee;  lived  in 
Nashua  and  Bedford.  Elizabeth,  b.  1818,  Sept.  20;  m.  Elliot  AVhitford; 
lives  in  Nashua.  Francis.  4,  b.  1820.  Nov.  16.  James,  b.  1822,  Aug.  30 ; 
d.  1828,  Oct.  4.  Eclu-in.  5,  b.  1824,  Aug.  10.  Abel,  b.  1827,  Jan.  8 ;  m.  Mary 
M.  Straw:  lives  in  Nashua. 
4.  Francis,  son  of  Abel,  3,  b.  1820,  Nov.  16;  m.  1846,  April  23, 
Elizabeth  R.  Howe,  dau.  of  George.  He  lives  at  the  family  homestead. 
Ch.  Alfred  Francis,  b.  1846,  Sept.  11;  m.  1871,  Jan.  3.  Olive  Ballou,  of 
Gardiner;  lives  in  Concord.  Hannah  Elizabeth,  b.  1848,  April  30;  m.  1872, 
April  23,  TiCwis  E.  Eobbins,  of  Nashua.  George  Howe,  b.  1853,  Dec.  10. 
Charles  Abel.  b.  1862.  April  27. 
5.  Edwin,  son  of  Abel.  3,  b.  1824,  Aug.  10 ;  m.  1852.  May  2,  Harriet 
Huddleston;  now  lives  in  Bedford.  Ch.  William  E.,  b.  1853,  Feb.  2. 
Anqeline.  b.  18.54.  July  18.  Susan  H.,  b.  1856,  Dec.  12.  Florence  Lilian, 
b.  1862,  April  22. 
6.  Ebenezer,  b.  in  Westford,  Vt.,  1831,  Jan.  13,  the  son  of  Thomas, 
whose  father,  Ebenezer,  was  b.  in  Lexington,  1767,  Sept.  17.  John,  his 
father,  removed  to  Clarendon,  Vt.,  about  1770.  He  m.  18.54,  Oct.  13,  Lucretia 
A.  Pierce,  of  Taunton,  where  most  of  their  children  were  b.  He  settled 
in  B.,   1876.     Ch.    Elliott  Augustus,   b.   1855,   Dec.   6;  d.    1857,   Aug.  17. 
 - 384 - 
BO  YNTON— BRIDGE.  17 
Clarence  Augustine^  b.  1858,  Feb.  27.  Henry  Hartwell,  b.  1859,  Sept.  5. 
Edunn  Vernon,  b.  1862,  Feb.  11;  d.  1805,  April  13.  John  Elliott,  h.  1866, 
Dec.  28.     Irving  Campenjield.  b.  1869,  Aug.  25. 
BOTNTON,  Richard,  is  on  tax-list.  1764.  (his  name  spelled  there, 
Bienton).  Ch.  John,  bap.  1763,  Oct.  2.  Rebecca,  bap.  1763,  Oct.  13; 
m.  1786.  May  22,  Nehemiah  Eoundy,  of  Beverly.   A  child  bap.  1766,  Nov.  23. 
BRACKET.  1.  Capt.  Richard,  lived  in  Boston.  1632-11.  and  after, 
in  Bramtree.  where  he  was  town  clerk,  deacon,  and  leading  citizen.  His 
name  often  appears  in  Billerica  records  ;  prob.  he  never  lived  in  the  town, 
but  five  of  his  ch.  were  among  the  first  settlers  here.  His  wife's  name 
was  Alice;  she  d.  1690,  aged  76,  and  he  d.  1691,  March  5,  aged  80. 
Ch.  Hannah,  bap.  1635,  Jan.  4;  m.  Samuel  Kingsley.  Peter,  2,  and  John,  3, 
bap.  1637,  May  7.  Bachel,  b.  1639,  Nov.  3;  m.  Simon  Crosby,  1.  Mary, 
b.  1642,  Feb.  1;  m.  Joseph  Thompson.  1.  James,  b.  (V).  Josiah,  4, 
b.  1652.  July  8.     Sarah  m.  Joseph  Crosby,  brother  of  Simon,  1. 
2  Peter,  son  of  Capt.  Eichard,  1,  bap.  1637,  May  7;  m.  (says 
Mr.  Savage.)  1661,  Aug.  7,  Elizabeth  Bosworth.  She  d.  1686,  Nov.  30,  and 
he  m.  1687,  March  30,  Mrs.  Sarah  Foster,  widow  of  Dr.  Thomas,  of 
Eoxbury  and  Cam))ridge.  and  sister  of  Benjamin  Parker,  of  Billerica. 
She  outlived  him,  and  d.  1718,  April  18,  aged  78.  Ch.  Jonathan,  b.  1668, 
July  22,  and  d.  1670-1,  March  11.  Elizabeth,  b.  1671,  April  30.  Bethia, 
b.  1674,  April  10,  and  d.  1675,  March  25.  Mary,  b.  1680-1,  Feb.  10; 
m.  Jonathan  Hill,  9. 
3.  John,  son  of  Eichard.  1,  bap.  1637.  May  7;  m.  1661,  Sept.  6, 
Hannah  French,  dau.  of  Lieut.  William,  1.  She  d.  1674,  May  9,  and  he  m. 
1675,  March  31,  Euth,  prob.  dau.  of  Joseph  Ellice;  lived  at  the  comer,  on 
the  west  side  of  the  road,  and  between  the  two  brooks.  He  d.  1686-7, 
March  18.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1662,  Dec.  1.  Elizabeth,  b.  1664,  June  7. 
Mary,  b.  1665-6,  Feb.  12;  m.  1683,  Nov.  27.  Edward  Spalding,  of 
Chelmsford.  Sarah,  b.  1667,  Dec.  11.  Bachel,  b.  1669,  Sept.  30.  Abigail, 
b.  1670,  Dec.  31,  and  d.  Jan.  11.  Bathsheba,  b.  1671-2,  March  10,  and 
d.  1673,  April  24.  Samuel,  b.  1672-3,  March  4.  Sarah,  b.  1674,  May  9,  the 
day  of  her  mother's  death.  John,  b.  1675-6,  Jan.  19,  and  d.  June  24. 
Ebenezer,  b.  1677,  Oct.  19.     John,  b.  1680,  Dec.  10.     Bethia,  b.  1682.  May  25. 
4.  Josiah,  son  of  Eichard,  1,  b.  1652,  July  8;  m.  1672-3.  Feb.  4, 
Elizabeth  Waldo,  dau.  prob.  of  Cornelius,  of  Chelmsford,  to  which  town 
he  early  removed;  wa  deacon,  and  d.  there,  1701,  June  3.  One  dau.  b.  in 
Billerica,  Elizabeth,  b.  1674,  Nov.  1. 
BRADDEN,  Richard,  m.  1763,  June  9,  Millesent  Famum.  He  d.  1776, 
Sept.  15.  Ch.  Millesent,  b.  1763,  Oct.  20;  m.  1814,  May,  Joseph  Wetherbee, 
of  Dedham.     Bobert,  b.  1765,  Oct.  30. 
BRADFORD.  1.  William  and  wife,  Sarah.  Ch.  Samuel  Henly, 
b.  1786,  Api-il  30.     William,  b.  1787,  June  10.     Charles,  bap.  1788,  Nov.  16. 
2.     John  had  ch.  John  bap.  1820,  Feb.  6. 
BRADLEY,  Joseph,  of  Dracut,  m.  1795,  Jan.  25,  Lydia  Worcester,  and 
1812,  Julv  2,  Margaret  Bowers,  dau.  of  Samuel.  6. 
BRADSTREET,  Elijah,  had  Beuben  bap.  1800,  July  27. 
BREED,  James,  m.  1792,  March  13,  Eliza  Parker,  dau.  of  John.  14. 
Ch.  Polly,  b.  1792,  June  18. 
Hannah,  m.  1786,  Oct.  31,  Eev.  David  Osgood,  d.  d.,  of  Medford. 
He  was  b.  in  Andover.  1747,  Oct.  14;  grad.  H.  C,  1771;  ordained.  1774. 
Sept.  14 ;  d.  in  office,  1822,  Dec.  12.  A  volume  of  his  sermons,  and  more 
than  twenty  occasional  discourses  of  this  '  
eminent  divine  '  
were  published. 
BRIDGE.  1.  Rev.  Ebenezer,  and  Mrs.  Joanna  Abbot,  widow  of 
Nehemiah,  both  of  Chelmsford,  m.  1792,  May  19. 
2.  Col.  Ebenezer,  son  of  Eev.  Ebenezer.  of  Chelmsford,  who 
commanded  a  regiment  at  Bunker  Hill,  was  in  Billerica  a  few  year 
before  the  Eevolution,  a  merchant,  and  commanded  a  company  of  minute 
men.  He  did  not  return  after  the  War,  and  had  no  family  here  ;  
but  he 
m.  1817,  Sept.  17,  Susan  Hartvvell;  then  lived  in  Harvard. 
 - 385 - 
18  BKOOKS  —  BROW  X . 
3.  Saiiiiu'l,  ixM-haps  t'roiii  Lexington,  ni.  1780.  March  12.  Allk-e 
Pollard,  dau.  of  Solomon.  12.  ("h.  Samuel,  b.  1780.  (K-t.  ;^.  John.  b.  1782. 
June  6.  Alike',  b.  1784,  June  19.  Charles,  b.  178G,  May  29.  Ctirus. 
b.  1788,  Jan.  11.  ILnnni.  b.  1790.  July  7;  m.  1818.  Jan.  i:^.  Dorcas  Hill, 
widow  of  Joseph.  2S,  who  d.  1847,  Fel).  10.  Martj.  b.  1792,  Nov.  25. 
Janiex.  b.  17i)o.  June  i;{.    Eiiiili/.  b.  1798,  Feb.  22.    Hannah,  b.  1807.  Aua;.  7. 
BROOKS,  Timotliy,  son  of  Henry,  .of  Woburn.  He  was  in  Billerica. 
1670.  and  bought  in  l()7;i},  of  George  Farley,  part  of  the  Oakes  farm,  on  the 
Shawshin.  near  Concord  line.  Soon  after  1680.  he  i-emoved  to  Swanzey. 
und  in  1684,  Biilerica  sought  to  recover  dues  to  Mr.  AVhiting  from  him 
there.  He  m.  1659,  Dec.  2,  Mary  Russell,  who  d.  1680.  Sept.  15.  Ch.  in 
Woburn:  Timothtj.  I>.  1660.  Nov.  10;  d.  soon  after.  Timothy,  b.  1661. 
Oct.  9.  John.  b.  1(;62,  Oct.  16.  Marti,  who  d.  1670.  July  2.  and  doubtless 
others.  In  Hillerica  :  Manj.  b.  .1670.  Dec.  15;  d.  Jan.  14.  Mar;i.  b.  1671, 
Dec.  10.  Ilcpzahak.  h.  167.V4,  Feb.  Anna.  It.  1675-6,  Jan.  23.  LycUa, 
b.  1677-8.  Jan.  8.     li'-becca.  b.  1679.  Oct.  5. 
BROWN.  1.  Jacob.  [In  the  early  records,  final  -e'  is  often  used] . 
Received  in  1658  a  grant  of  an  eight-acre  lot.  His  first  alotment  was 
"upon  the  township^  bounded  by  the  river,  west;  John  Rogers,  north; 
George  Willice.  south;  highway,  east,  and  one  highway  passing  through 
the  upper  part  of  the  same,  which  is  Concord  road."  .This  lot  was  near 
or  south  of  the  Baptist  church.  He  sold  in  l(i63,  all  his  rights  to  John 
Stearns,  and  disappears  from  Biilerica.  He  m.  1661.  Oct.  16.  Mary 
Tapleafe. 
2.  John,  "31,  10"\  1683.  At  a  meeting  of  y"  Selectmen,  John  Browne 
being  sumoned  and  appearing  before  y  Selectmen  to  give  an  account  of 
his  coming  to  inhabit  in  our  towne  without  liberty  from  the  town  first  had 
and  obtained  according  to  our  town  orders.  The  Selectmen  having  received 
an  evill  report  of  y<^"s<i  pson.  they  gave  him  Xotice  of  our  towne  orders, 
respecting  y^  entertainment  of  persons  into  y«  towne  to  be  inhabitants, 
and  that  wee  were  not  willing  to  entertain  him  as  an  inhabitant,  and 
warned  him  forthwith  to  remove  his  family  out  of  our  towne  on  the 
penalty  of  our  towne  orders,  which  is  twenty  shillings  per  weeke.  uidess 
he  gave  bond,  with  security,  to  content  (within  one  week)  that  hee  should 
not  be  chargeable  to  y^  towne,  nor  his  family."  George  Grymes  is  also 
warned  of  the  penalty  he  would  incur  "in  case  he  suffers  the  s<i  Brown  to 
live  in  any  of  his  housing  or  tenements  more  than  one  week  longer."  But 
this  Browne  did  not  leave  in  a  week  and  the  constable  reported  his  tax.  with 
others  not  paid  in  Dec,  1687.  He  m.  1682.  April  22,  Elizabeth  Policy,  dau. 
of  George,  of  Woburn,  and  Savage  names  ch.  John.  8,  Elizabd'h.  and 
Hannah,  b.  in  Woburn. 
3.  George,  took  the  oath  of  fidelity,  with  18  others,  '-18,  3™,  1685." 
His  father  was  no  doubt  AVilliam,  of  Boston,  who  m.  1655,  April  16, 
Elizabeth  Ruggles,  dau.  of  George,  of  Braintree.  and  had  Mary,  b.  1655-6, 
March  16.  Sarah,  b.  1657.  Jan.  8.  Elizabeth,  who  m.  James  Kidder,  2, 
and  George.  His  widow  m.  our  John  Rogers,  who  names  her  ch.  George 
and  Mary  in  his  will.  A  Genealogical  table  published  by  Samuel  Brown  in 
1852,  says  that  George  was  b.  1668,  April  5;  but  his  tradition  of  a  Baldwin 
marriage  and  the  nauiing  of  Content  Brook  is  without  foundation.  He  did 
settle  in  the  east  part  of  the  town.  He  m.  1689-90,  Jan.  30,  Sarah  Kidder, 
dau.  of  James.  1.  She  d.  1717-18,  Feb.  27.  He  d.  1738,  Sept.  28,  aged  71. 
Ch.  Joseph.  4,  b.  1690,  Nov.  3.  Sarah,  b.  1691-2,  March  8 ;  
d.  1704,  Sept.  26. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1693-4.  Jan.  12;  m.  Oliver  Whiting,  4.  Josiah.  5,  b.  1695, 
April  19.  William,  6,  b.  1696,  Oct.  21.  3fary  and  James,  b.  1698,  Sept.  27, 
and  d.  N^ov.  19,  and  Dec.  1.  John  and  lliomas.  b.  1699.  Nov.  27;  and  d. 
Dee.  12.  Samuel.  7,  b.  1701-2,  Jan.  27.  Ephraim  and  Isaac,  b.  1702-3, 
Jan.  23.  Isaac  died  same  day.  Ephraim  m.  Hosley,  and  lived  in  Towusend. 
Dorothy,  b.  1704-5,  Jan.  l;'m.  Samuel  Crosby,  (see  2).  Sarah,  b.  1707, 
Dec.  21 ;  m.  Jacob  French.  12. 
4.  Joseph,  son  of  George.  3,  b.  1090.  Nov.  3;  m.  Mary  Baldwin, 
dau.  of  John,  1,  and  1733,  June  28,  Anne  Cleveland.      He  lived  beyond 
 - 386 - 
BROWN.  19 
Shawshin  river,  in  the  south-east  part  of  Tewksbury.  Ch.  Joseph,  b.  1721-2, 
Feb.  26;  d.  ]Nrarch  23.  il/rtry,  b.  1722-3.  Feb.  16.  Judith,  b.  1724.  Dec.  17; 
in.  Reuben  Kendall,  2.  Sanuiel,  b.  1726,  Nov.  -4;  ni.  Molly  Marshall,  and 
lived  on  the  homestead  in  Tewksbury. 
5.  Josiilh,  son  of  George,  3,  b.  1095*  April  19;  m.  Hannah,  and  1739, 
Xov.  29,  Kebecca  Danforth,  widow  of  Thomas,  4,  and  1748-9,  March  1, 
Avidow  Mary  Ellis,  Needham.  Ch.  Hannah,  h.  1731,  Mav  9.  Elizabeth 
b.  1732.  Dee.  21.  Jusiah.  b.  173,5,  May  14.  Eehecca,  b.  1740.  Oct.  13; 
m.  AVilliam  Patten,  14.     Sarah,  b.  1742,  July  28;  m.  Jacob  Iiichardson.  14. 
6.  William,  son  of  George,  3,  b.  1696.  Oct.  21  ;  m.  ]\Iarv  Baldwin, 
dau.  of  Jonathan.  3.  Ch.  William,  b.  1724.  March  27;  d.  Ai)ril  7.  Mart/ 
and  Esther,  b.  1727-8.  March  21.  Mary  m.  Samuel  Blanchard,  3,  anil 
Esther  m.  Thomas  Burtt.  William,  b.  1730-1,  Feb.  24;  m.  JVIary  Osgood, 
dau.  of  Christoplier.  1,  and  lived  in  Tewksbury;  was  a  member  of  the 
Constitutional  Conventi<m  in  1780.  Timothy,  b.  1733,  May  24;  m.  Dorcas 
Osgood  and  Rhoda  Coburn;  was  a  merchant  .on  the  east  side  of  the 
Concord  river,  in  modern  I^owell.     ' 
7.  Samuel,  son  of  George.  3,  b.  1701-2,  Jan.  27;  m.  Mary  French, 
the  widow  of  Jonathan,  8;  she  d.  1758,  Nov.  11,  and  he  m.  Elizabeth 
Taylor.  Lieut.  Brown  d.  1779.  July  6.  Of  the  place  where  lie  lived  his 
descendant  Sauuiel  says:  "The  farm  has  descended  in  the  same  name, 
through  four  generations.  *  *  The  first  sawmill  erected  in  the  vicinity  was 
on  this  farm  ;  
it  was  built  by  a  company  of  the  neighboring  farmers,  and 
stood  till  about  1740.  On  the  site  of  the  sawmill,  "the  first  gristmill  was 
erected  by  Samuel,  grandson  of  George  Brown,  about  1760.  The  place  is 
now  known  as  Patten's  Mills."  Ch.  Marii.  b.  1731,  Dec.  9;  m.  Benjamin 
Lewis,  3.  Samuel.  10,  b.  1733,  Sept.  12.  Joshua,  b.  1734-5,  Jan.  1.  Sarah, 
b.  1735-6.  Feb.  20;  m.  Edward  Farmer,  10.  Anna.  b.  1737,  Sept.  21;  m. 
Samuel  BuUen.  i?e?)ecc«,  b.  1738-9,  Feb.  18;  m.  James  Lewis.  5.  Abigail, 
b.  1740,  April  14;  m.  Isaac  Marshall,  7.  llartha.  b.  1741-2,  March  22; 
m.  Eleazer  Stickney,  4.  Fei'sis,  b.  1743,  Oct.  23;  m.  Asa  Emerson. 
Esther,  b.  1744-5,  Jail.  23.  and  d.  Feb.  17.  Georqe,  b.  1746,  June  22,  and 
d.  July  20.     GeoTcje,  11,  b.  1747,  Sept.  16. 
8.  John,  perhaps  a  son  of  John,  2,  m.  Susanna.  Ch.  Thomas. 
b.  1716-7.  Feb.  21,  and  d.  1718,  Oct.  14.  Sarah,  b.  1719,  June  26;  m.  Isaac 
Foster,  7.  Rebecca,  b.  1721,  June  17.  -Thomas,  12,  b.  1723-4.  Feb.  20. 
Mary,  b.  1726,  May  1.  Mehitable,  b.  1729-30,  Feb.  13.  David,  b.  1733, 
Oct.  10. 
9.  Nathaniel.  Name  on  tax-list,  1737-89,  and  liis  lieirs,  after.  Birth 
of  children  not  recorded,  but  baptisms  are  as  follows  :  Sarah.  1755,  April  6. 
Nathaniel,  1757.  Oct.  22.     Maniaret.  1759,  Nov.     Rhoda,  b.  1762,  April  18. 
10.  Samuel,  son  of  Saniuel,  7,  b.  1733.  Sept.  12;  m.  1759.  Aug.  16, 
Sarah  Noyes,  of  Andover.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1760,  Sept.  26;  d.  1795.  Dec.  9. 
Samuel,  13,  b.  1762,  June  15.  Mary,  b.  1764,  June  19;  m.  1803,  April  12, 
Silas  Chandler.     Susanna,  b.  1767,  April  3;  d.  1793,  Nov.  23. 
11.  George',  son  of  Samuel,  7,  b.  174V,  Sept.  16;  m.  1771,  Nov.  21, 
Elizabeth  French.  After  1774.  he  removed  to  Pittsfield.  Me.,  and  thei-e 
lived  and  died.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1772.  Aug.  19;  m.  David  Wentworth. 
Joshua,  b.  1774,  May  13;  m.  Martha  Myrick,  and  settled  in  Buxton.  Me. 
And  born  in  Pittsfield  :  Jonathan,  1776.  Sept.  21;  lived  in  Clinton.  Me. 
TfWirt?H,  1778,  Aug.  7;  lived  in  Ohio.  Samuel.  1780.  Oct.  10.  Anna,  1782, 
July  11.  George,  1784.  Sept.  30.  Samuel,  1786,  Sept.  30;  killed  by  a  tree 
falling  on  him.     John,  1789,  June  29. 
12.  Thomas,  son  of  John.  8,  b.  1723-4,  Feb.  20;  m.  Esther    ,  and 
1775,  Jan.  4,  Lucy  Kemp.  dau.  of  Jason.  He  lived  on  the  RangeAvay  road. 
Ch.  Esther,  b.  17o2,  Sept.  1;  d.  Sept.  9.  Esther,  b.  1753,  Oct ."7;  ni.  1793, 
Nov.  11,  Eldad  Worcester,  of  Tewksbury.  Thomas.  14,  b.  1755,  March  6. 
Abigail,  b.  1757,  Feb.  3.  Rachel,  h.  1759,  June  8.  Susanna,  b.  1761,  Sept.  9; 
ni.  '1783,  Sept.  11,  Natlianiel  French,  of  Concord.  Elizabeth,  h.  1764, 
March  6.     John,  b.  1767,  Sept.  1 ;  
d.  1768,  March  1.     John,  b.  1768,  July  19 ; 
 - 387 - 
20  BROWN. 
111.  1700,  April  15.  Hannah  Miller.  ''John  Brown,  of  Mason.*'  m.  1792. 
Dec.  19,  Mary  White,  and  is  probably  the  same.  tSrmih,  bap.  1771,  May  28. 
Sarah,  b.  1775,  Oi-t.  15.  Rebecca,  b.  1777,  March  25.  Liicy,  b.  1778,  8ept.  6; 
ni.  Joseph  Cowdry.  2.  Ji>ab,  b.  1780,  March  10.  EUslia,  15,  b.  1782, 
July  13.  ,/oHrt.s-,  16,  b.  1785.  Jan.  25.  Imac,  17,  b.  1788,  Nov.  9.  Jacob, 
b.  1792.  May  10.     Rebecca,  b.  1794.  Dee.  '^\  in.  Benoni  Spaulding.  H. 
13.  Samuel,  son  of  Sanmel,  10,  b.  1702,  June  15;  in.  Elizabeth  Noyes, 
who  d.  1850.  -Ian.  10.  aged  81.  [This  family  is  not  found  in  tlie  town 
records,  but  is  copied  from  the  table  of  .Samuel  Brown.  1852]. 
Ch.  Samuel,  18,  b.  1788,  Nov.  IG.  Elizabeth,  b.  1790,  Sept.  30;  in.  1818. 
Dec.  24,  Joseph  Cram.  Timothy  N.,  b.  1792,  Nov.  12.  Isaac,  b.  1794, 
Aug.  7;  d.  Sarah  P..  b.  1796,  Mav  10;  d.  1859.  April  25.  Sttsnnnah, 
b.  1798,  Jan.  21 ;  
d.  Lucij,  b.  1804,  Feb.  1 ;  in.  1828,  Dec.  11,  James  Cram, 
of  Lvndeboro\  Riibi),  b.  1802,  Feb.  17.  Isaac,  b.  1806,  April  21;  d. 
Harriet,  b.  1808.  June  30;  d.     diary,  b.  1810,  Sept.  26. 
14.  Thomas,  son  of  Tliomas.  12,  b.  1755,  Marcli  6;  m.  1785.  June  28, 
Rachel  Procte;-.     She  d.  1790,  Feb.  18.  and  he  in.  Esther    .      Ch.  Abel, 
b.  1786,  Aug.  12.  Rachel,  b.  1788.  Jan.  25.  Thomas,  b.  1790,  Feb.  18. 
James,  b.  1793.  June  28.     Josejyh,  b.  1795.  April  4.     Asa,  b.  1800,  May  29. 
15.  EUsha,  son  of  Thomas.  12,  b.  1782,  July  13;  in.  Mary    .     He 
d.  1849,  July  29.  Ch.  Asa  Nickles,  b.  1811,  Jan.  20.  Elisha,  b.  1813, 
March  7.  P'rescott,  23,  b.  1815.  March  28.  3Iary,  b,  1817,  Jan.  26.  Mahala, 
b.  1819,  Sept.  2.     Sarah  Je/ts,  b.  1821,  Sept.  22.     Enstis,  b.  1823,  Aug  27. 
16.  Jonas,  son  of  Thomas,  12,  b.  1785,  Jan.  25;  ni.  1811,  May  7, 
Lydia  Spaulding,  dau.  of  Benoni.  4.  He  d.  1872.  March  21.  Ch.  Jonas,  20, 
b.  1811,  Sept.  2.  Li/dia,  b.  1813,  July  3.  Amos  Spaulding,  b.  1815,  Aug.  18; 
lives  in  Lowell.  Harriet,  b.  1817,  Aug.  26.  Abram,  b.  1819,  Jan.  17;  lives 
in  Westford.  Olive,  b.  1822.  Jan.  28;  d.  1825.  Sept.  12.  Benjamin,  b.  1824, 
Feb.  20;  d.  1825,  Aug.  30.  Benjamin,  b.  1825,  Nov.  25.  Olive  Elizabeth. 
b.  1828,  June  8.  Edwin  Warren,  b.  1830,  March  1.  Sabre,  b.  1833,  Feb.  6. 
Lucy  Ann,  b.  1834,  Feb.  25.     Daniel  Albert,  b.  1836,  Dec.  3. 
17.  Isaac,  son  of  Thomas,  12,  b.  1788,  Nov.  9;  m.  Betsey    .     He 
d.  1876,  March  11.  Ch.  Sarah  Belinda,  b.  1824,  July  14.  Isaac  Woodward, 
b.  1828.  Oct.  17.  Abba,  b.  1832,  Feb.  29-  Elizabeth,  b.  1836,  July  16. 
Alfred,  b.  1838,  Sept.  22.     Amanda,  b.  1845,  July  4. 
18.  Samuel,  son  of  Samuel,  13,  b.  1788,  Nov.  16;  m.  Nancy.  He 
published  in  1852  the  Genealogical  Table,  before  mentioned,  of  the 
descendants  of  George  Brown,  3;  d.  1866,  April  7.  Ch.  Mary  Elizabeth, 
b.  1840,  Sept.  19.     George,  b.  1843.  July  20. 
19.  John,  possibly  the  son  of  Thomas,  12,  who  was  '  
of  Mason,'  1792  ; 
m.  1803,  Nov.  1,  Sarah  Hill,  probably  widow  or  daughter  of  William.  19. 
Ch.  David,  b.  1804,  Feb.  1.  Mary  Flint,  b.  1805.  July  6.  Charles,  h.  1812, 
Jan.  14. 
20.  Jonas,  son  of  Jonas,  16,  b.  1811,  Sept.  2;  m.  Rebecca  Dane. 
He  d.  1859,  Nov.  18.  Ch.  Mary  Luvinia,  b.  1842.  Oct.  6.  Jonas  Edwin, 
b.  1844,  Dec.  17.  Andrew  Jackson,  h.  1847.  March  14 ;  
d.  1855,  March  2. 
Emma,  b.  1852,  Feb.  8.  Esther  L.,  b.  1854,  Sept.  16;  d.  1863,  May  15. 
Lucy,  b.  1859;  d.  1862,  Oct.  31. 
21.  Charles  V.  m.  Mary  Dowse,  dau.  of  Joseph.  6.  Ch.  Parker, 
b.  1825,  Sept.  2.  Adeline,  b.'  1827,  March  16.  Emihi,  b.  1829,  Oct.  20. 
Lucinda,  b.  1833,  Oct.  7.   Lucretia.  b.  1836,  April  2.   Eliza,  b.  1840,  April  18. 
22.  Caleb  Sumner,  son  of  Samuel,  of  Concord,  m.  Joanna  Page.  He 
d.  1877.  July  9.  aged  71  years.  Ch.  Joanna,  b.  1833,  Aug.  8.  Harriet, 
b.  1835,  July  13.  Emma,  li.  1838,  Aug.  22.  Vivian,  b.  1840,  Feb.  24. 
Arradin,  b.  1841,  Aug.  19.  E^iginia.  b.  1843.  Nov.  27.  Otis  Sumner,  b.  1845, 
Feb.  20.     Elizabeth,  b.  1847.  Feb.  14. 
23.  Rodney  m.  Abigail,  and  1860.  April  17,  widow  Sally  Jenkins,  dau. 
of  Benoni  Spalding.  4.  Ch.  Abigail,  )>.  1836,  Sept.  16.  ^ Eliza,  b.  1837, 
Nov.  23.  Jonathan  Easte,  b.  1839,  Oct.  24.  Sarah  Maria,  b.  1841,  April  27. 
Abhy  Ann,  b.  1846,  Feb.  17.    Marilla,  b.  1848,  April  13. 
 - 388 - 
BROWN—  CARLETON.  21 
24.  Prescott,  son  of  Elisha.  15,  b.  1815,  March  28;  m.  Ann  Eliza. 
Ch.  Harrison,  h.  1844,  Sept.  24.     Prescott,  b.  184G,  Sept.  2;J. 
25.  Hiram,  son  ot  Samuel,  of  Concord;  in.  Susiui.  He  lives  in 
Lowell.  Ch.  LiifaneUe.  b.  1844.  Oct.  13.  Georgianna.  b.  1846,  April  23. 
LiUi<>  Addip.  h.  1853.  April  9. 
BRUCE,  Jasper  F.,  son  of  Frank,  who  is  grandson  of  Rev.  John 
Bruce,  D.  C.,  1781.  and  first  pastor,  178.5-1809.  in  Mont  Veron.  X.  H.  ;  was 
b.  in  Stonehani.  1845.  Feb.  15;  ni.  1870,  Dec.  1,  Cordelia  Ripley,  of  Mame. 
He  lias  been  for  some  vears  a  merchant  ;  
his  store,  east  of  the  common. 
Ch.  XelUe  B.,  b,  1872.'  May  16.  Annie  E.,  b.  1874,  May  1.  Edna  F.. 
b.  1877.  Nov.  20, 
BRYANT,  Elizabeth,  bap.  1750.  April  1.  aged  about  16. 
BULLEN,  Samuel,  descended,  no  doubt,  from  Samuel,  of  Detlham, 
1641;  m.  1760,  May  22.  Anna  Brown,  dau.  of  Samuel,  7.  Ch.  Samuel, 
b.  1761.  March  30.  Nathan,  b.  1762,  Nov.  2.  Anna,  h.  1765,  Feb.  23,  and 
d.  April  26.  Joshua,  b.  1766,  March  17.  Jesse,  b.  1768,  March  2.  Faltee, 
b.  1770,  Sept.  29. 
BURDIT,  Jacob,-  m.  1792,  Sept.  27.  Eliza  Simonds.  She  may  have 
been  dau.  of  Jesse,  whose  name  was  for  some  yeans  on  tax-list.  Ch.  Jacob, 
h.  1793.  March  30. 
BURNEY,  Anne,  m.  1724.  Aug.  18,  Isaac  Kent,  Concord. 
BURROWS,  Yoluntine,  m.  Mary  Eastman,  of  Weare,  N.  H.  He  d. 
1864.  Aug.  21.  Ch.  3Iart/  Jane,  b.  1842,  Mav  27;  in.  Charles  E.  Gorham. 
Edward,  b.  1844.  April  28.   Elizabeth  Ann,  b.  1847,  Sept.  27. 
BURTON,  Isaac,  and  wife  Rebecca.  Ch.  Sarak,  b.  1767,  Oct.  16. 
Isaac,  b.  1770,  June  28. 
BUTLER,  James,  ''Sen.   Irishman,   dyed  20,   01,  81."       He  was  in 
Woburn,  1676-8,     His  wife's  name  was  Mary    .     She  m.  1682-3,  Feb.  9. 
JohnHindes.  Ch.  John,  b.  1677,  July  22.  Had  10  ch.  b.  in  Woburn; 
but  removed  in  1721,  to  the  part  of  Dunstable  now  Pelham,  N.  H. ;  there 
d.  1759.  Caleb  the  historian  of  Groton,  was  one  of  his  numerous 
descendants.     3Iarv,  b.  1679,  July  11.     Elenor,  b.  1681,  Sept.  13. 
CAMPBLE,  Thomas,  m.  1733,  May  3,  Jane  Davidson, 
CANN,  Barnard  M.,  m.  Hepsibah  M.    .      He  lives  on  the  Boston 
road,  in  the  village.  Ch.  Ellen  Maria,  b.  1842,  May  9.  Thomas  Barnard, 
b.  1845.  Julv  11.     Susan,  b.  1846,  Aug.  21.  Mary  E.,  b.  1851,  Aug.  3. 
CANNADA,  John,  on  tax-list,  1734. 
CAREY,  Thomas.      "Mr.   Laines'   Scotchman  dyed"    1683,   Sept.   7. 
CARLETON.  1.  John,  came  fi-om  Bradford,  and  purchased  about 
1759,  the  mill  and  privilege  at  North  Billerica.  His  wife's  name  was  Hannah. 
The  inventory  of  his  estate  is  dated  1782,  Sept.  25.  His  children  were  born 
in  Haverhill  iind  Bradford.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1733.  April  24;  m.  Thomas 
Todd.  Solomon,  b.  1734,  Nov.  23.  Hannah,  b.  1736,  Sept.  23;  m.  Thomas 
Lewis.  John,  2,  b.  1738.  May  10.  Lydia,  b.  1740,  May  26;  m.  Thomas 
Mears.  Solomon,  3,  b.  1742,  June  22,  Amos,  b.  1744-5,  March  13. 
Moses.  4,  b.  1749,  Sept.  13,  Nathan,  5,  b.  1754,  Aug.  19.  Anne,  who  m. 
Jesse  Manning,  14,  should  probably  stand  between  Moses  and  Nathan. 
2.  John,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1738,  May  10.  Ch.  John,  6.  Sarah, 
bap.  1765,  May  26;  m.  Nathaniel  Stearns,  18.  Amos,  7,  bap,  1767, 
March  29. 
3.  Solomon,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1742,  June  22;  m.  1769,  Oct.  18, 
Elizabeth  Manning,  dau.  of  William,  8.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1770,  Aug.  30. 
Solomon,  b.  1773,  Nov.  3.  Eri,  b.  1777,  June  23.  Rebecca,  b.  1779,  Jan.  3. 
Allice,  b.  1780,  Oct.  3. 
4.  Moses,  son  of  John.  1,  b.  1749,  Sept.  13;  m.  1771,  Jan.  15, 
Margaret  Sprake,  dau.  of  Nicholas.  4.  She  d.  1782,  Julv  7.  and  he  m. 
Oct.  17,  Sibbel  Shed,  widow  of  Reuben,  19.  He  d.  before  1790,  July  5. 
€h.  Moses,  b.  1771,  May  7.  Sibbel.  b.  1773.  May  18.  Nicholas,  b.  1774, 
Dec.  13.    Henry,  b.  1778',  July  10.     Anna.  bap.  1790,  March  21. 
 - 389 - 
22  CARLETON  —  CARRIER. 
5.  Nathan,  son  of  Jolin,  1,  b.  1754.  Aug.  19;  ui.  1778,  Nov.  5.  Abigail 
Spalding,  of  Cliclnisfonl.     Ch.  Abigail,  b.  177'J.  April  24. 
G.  Joltn,  son  of  .John,  2,  ni.  1794,  Jan.  9,  Sally  Chase,  prob.  widow 
of  Enoch.  Ch.  Dnvid.  b.  179.-),  ,Ian.  25.  Joluu  b.  'l79(j.  Sept.  2.  Nallij, 
1).  1798.  May  29.  Jacob,  b.  1800.  April  8.  William,  b.  1802,  Sept.  11. 
Stephen,  b.  1804,  May  31.  Bebekah,  b.  180G,  Aug.  30.  Enoch  C,  b.  1808, 
Fob.   15. 
7.  Amos,  son  of  John.  2,  bap.  1707,  March  19;  m.  1796.  Feb.  25, 
Esther  Manning,  dau.  of  Jacob,  13.  She  d.  1823,  Jan.  21.  He  lived  on 
the  road  to  Wiiniing  pond.  Ch.  Esther,  b.  1796,  Oct.  18;  ni.  1821,  Oct.  25, 
Ei)hraini  >Vanier,  of  Chelmsford.  Am(i!<,  b.  1798,  Aug.  7.  Martha,  b.  1800, 
Sept.  7.  Mehitable.  b.  1803.  Jan.  7;  ni.  Obed  Stearns.  Daniel,  b.  1806. 
Aug.  24.     George,  b.  1812.  Jan.  10. 
AbialCARR.Taylor,  1."  Walter,  name  on  tax-list,  1788.  He  in.  1815,  Nov.  2, 
widow  of  Michael. 
2.  Walter,  jr.,  and  wife  Charlotte.  Ch.  George.  Henry,  b.  1818, 
March  5.     Joseph,  b.  1820,  Aug.  8.     Benjamin  Walter,  b.  1822.  May  18. 
CARRIER,  Thomas,  "vulgarly  called  Morgan."  was  in  town,  1674, 
"23,  4™,  1676.  The  Select  n  >n  ordered  the  constable  to  give  Notice  to 
Thomas  Carrier,  alias  Morgan.  Welchman,  that  the  town  was  not  willing 
hee  should  abide  here,  as  an  inhabitant,  and  that  he  forthwith  depart  with 
his  family,  or  give  such  securit,y  as  shall  be  to  the  content  of  the 
Selectmen,  on  peril  of  20^.  per  week,  while  hee  abide  without  leave,  flrst 
had  and  olitaininl,  W^"  is  acording  to  an  ancient  towne  order  amongst  us.'' 
Very  worthy  men  received  such  notice  from  some  towns  in  later  days.  In 
1677,  November,  he  was  assigned  '-with  his  man,  John  lAwistone,"'  to 
brush  cutting  in  the  south-east  part  of  the  town,  and  he  took  the  "oath  of 
fidelity,"  with  twenty-four  inhal)itants.  1677-8.  Feb.  4.  If  he  was,  at  first, 
in  the  the  south-east  part  of  the  to\\'n,  his  later  residence  was  just  beyond 
North  Billerica,  west  of  the  road  "to  Winthrop's  farm,"  (see  "Grants,"' 
Vol.  2.  pps.  44  and  53.)  and  next  to  John  Kogers.  Between  1684-90,  he 
removed  to  Andover,  and  there  his  wife  Ijecame  fatallj^  involved  in  the 
witchcraft  tragedy,  as  elsewhere  related.  The  welcome  he  met  in  Andover 
was  not  more  cordial  than  he  had  found  in  Billerica.  In  1690.  his  home 
was  smitten  with  the  small-pox,  and  the  Selectmen  notified  his  friends  that 
the  town  was  not  responsible  for  aid,  "for  they  took  care,  when  first  they 
came,  to  warn  them  out,"  and  a  few  months  later,  poor  Martha  Carrier  had 
a  more  peremptory  'warning  out'  from  the  Magistrates  of  Massachusetts, 
at  Salem.  She  might  well  say  the  world  was  unfriendly.  Afterwards,  he 
removed  to  Connecticut,  and  with  his  family  was  among  the  pioneers  of 
Colchester.  The  following  extract  from  the  records  of  that  town  embodies 
interesting  traditions  of  this  remarkable  man  :  "Thomas  Carrier  had 
belonged  to  the  body-guard  of  Charles  1st,  of  Great  Britain,  and  was 
notorious  for  fleetness  of  foot,  even  after  he  was  more  than  100  years  old. 
It  is  said  that  he  killed  the  King  of  England.  If  so.  he  nuist  have  been  the 
executioner  of  Charles  1st,  A.  d.  1648.  It  is  said  by  his  descendants  that 
he  was  113  years  of  age  at  the  time  of  his  death  in  1735.  He  used  to  walk 
from  Colchester  to  Glastonbury,  carrying  a  sack  of  corn  on  his  shoulders 
to  be  ground,  walking  very  "fast,  aiid  stopping  but  once,  for  the  whole 
distance  of  18  miles."  Families  bearing  the  naine  still  live  in  the  vicinity. 
He  m.  1674,  May  7,  Martha,  dau.  of  Andrew  and  Faith  Allen,  of  Andover, 
sister  of  Dr.  Roger  Toothaker's  wife.  Her  sister  Hannah  m.  James  Holt, 
and  another  sister  m.  Samuel  Holt,  of  Andover,  and  she  had  brothers 
Andi-ew  and  John.  Several  of  the  family  died  of  the  small-pox  in  1692. 
She  was  executed  on  gallows  hill,  Salem,  1692,  Aug.  19.  He  died  in 
Colchester.  1735,  May  16.  Traditions  of  his  age  dift'er.  The  N.  E.  Journal 
soon  after  his  death  says  that  he  was  109  years  old,  and  that  he  was  not  gray 
or  bald,  walked  erect,  and  shortly  ])efore  his  death  walked  six  miles. 
(Savage).  Qh..  Eichard,  b.  1674,  July  19;  m.  1694,  July  18,  in  Andover, 
Elizabeth  Sessions,  and  had  Elizabeth,  b.  1695,  June  18.    John,  b.  1697: 
 - 390 - 
CARRIER  —  CHAMBERLAIN.  23 
March  16.  Timothy,  bap.  at  Colchester.  1699.  July  22.  His  wife  d.  1704, 
March  6.  and  he  ni.  1707,  July  29,  Thankful  Brown.  Andreni^  b.  1677, 
April  27;  m.  1704-5,  Jan.  11,  'Mary  Adams.  Jane.  b.  1680,  July  23; 
d.  Aug.  26.  Thomas,  b.  1682.  July  18;  m.  in  Andover,  1705,  June  19, 
Susannah  Johnson.  Sarah,  b.  1684,  Nov.  17;  m.  1707,  Sept.  7,  John 
Chapman,  in  Colchester.     Hannah,  b.  in  Andover,  1689,  Julv  12. 
CARROLL,  Maurice,  and  Ann,  his  wife.     Ch.  ElJen.  b.'l842.  Oct.  .31. 
CARTER.  1.  tieorge,  was  of  Wilmington.  He  m.  1814,  May  10, 
Mary  Kendall,  dan.  of  Joseph,  3.  They  lived  in  Lynnfield,  until  1816. 
He  d.  1841,  April  12.  aged  51.  She  d.  1854,  Jan.  11.  Ch.  (reorr/e  Kendall., 
b.  1814,  Oct.  13;  living  in  B.  Jose^^h  Mottey,  b.  1816,  Dec.  18;  d.  1844. 
Mary,  b.  1823,  Marcli  16;  m.  Josiah  Hill.  She  now  lives  in  Wilmington. 
Harriet  Maria,  b.  1833,  Sept.  10;  m.  John  Irving  Fletcher. 
2.  Francis,  and  wife  Harriet.  Ch.  Harriet  Ellen,  b.  1831,  Dec.  18. 
Martha  Ann.  b.  1833.  Aug.  16.     Frances  Maria,  b.  1839,  Mav  17. 
CENTER.  1.  John,  -of  Charlestown."  m.  1741, "July  30,  Sarah 
Sheldon,  dau.  of  Sauuiel,  3.     His  name  is  on  tlie  tax-lists,  1741-58. 
2.  John  Sheldon,  son  of  preceding,  doubtless;  m.  1778,  May  28, 
Phebe  Tav.  of  Woburn.     His  name  is  on  tax-lists,  1778-82. 
CHAMBERLAIN.  1.  William,  one  of  the  earliest  inhabitants.  He 
was  prob.  from  Woburn.  and  may  have  been  a  brother  of  Thomas.  One 
of  the  three  original  purchasers  of  the  Dudley  farm,  who  afterwards  lived 
in  Chelmsford,  and  1674.  April  16,  m.  Mary,  the  widow  of  our  Sergt.  John 
Parker.  According  to  Savage,  the  two  older  children  of  William  were 
born  in  Concord.  His  house  in  Billerica  was  •  
on  the  farm  '  
prolwhly  near  the 
Woburn  road,  in  the  south  part  of  the  village.  His  wife's  name  was 
Rebecca.  She  died  "in  the  prison  at  Cambridge,''  1692,  Sept.  26.  possibly 
charged  with  witchcraft.  (See  what  is  said  on  that  subject).  He  d.  1706, 
May  31,  aged  about  86.  Ch.  Timothy,  h.  1649,  Aug.  13.  Isaac,  b.  1650, 
Oct.  1,  and  d.  16S1,  July  20.  [These  from  Savage].  The  following  from 
Billerica  Records:  Sarah,  b.  1655.  May  20;  m.  John  Shed,  3.  Jacob., 
b.  1657-8,  Jan.  18.  Thomas,  h.  1659-60.  Feb.  20.  Edmond.  3,  b.  1660, 
July  15.  [So  tile  Record  .stand.s.  One  of  the  two  dates  must  be  in  error]. 
Rebecca.,  b.  1662-3,  Feb.  25;  m.  Thomas  Stearns,  4.  ^6?-a/(flm,  b.  1664-5, 
Jan.  6.  Ann.  b.  1665-6,  March  3.  Clement,  4,  1).  1669,  May  30.  Daniel,  5, 
b.  1671.  Sept.  27. 
2.  John,  was  prob.  a  son  of  William,  1,  b.  between  1650-53.  The 
place  given  to  his  familv,  on  page  40.  of  transcribed  "First  Record.'  implies 
this:  lie  m.  1681.  Dec. "6,  Del)orah  Ja^o  (•?).  She  d.  1703-4,  Feb.  24,  and 
he  d.  1712.  April  1.  Ch.  Deborah,  b.  1682,  Xov.  17.  John.  6,  b.  1684-5. 
Jan.  22.  Sarah,  b.  1687.  Sept.  29.  L>idia,  b.  1689,  Oct.  6;  m.  Benjamin 
Parker,  8.     Abraham.  7,  b.  1693.  A])ril  17. 
3.  Edmond,  son  of  William,  1,  b.  1660.  July  15;  m.  Mercy  Abbot, 
widow  of  John,  of  Woburn,  who  d.  1697-8.  Feb.  27.  and  he  m.  1717,  Jan.  17, 
Sarah  Forbush.  of  Reading.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1692.  June  10.  Ebenezer  and 
Marah.  b.  1697-8.  Feb.  17.     Ebenezer  d.  1698-9.  March  5. 
4.  Clement,  son  of  William.  1,  b.  1669.  May  30;  m.  Mary.  Ch.  Mary. 
b.  1692-3.  Jan.  20:  m.  1732.  Dec.  1.  Jonathan  Cram,  of  Wilmington. 
Clement.  8,  b.  1694.  Joseph.  9,  b.  1696.  Xov.  John.  b.  1699.  June  8^  and 
d.  1716.  June.  Pege.  h.  1701-2.  March  12.  William.  10,  b.  1703-4. 
March  23.     Rebecca,  b.  1705.  April  14.     Anna.  b.  1708.  May  29. 
5.  Daniel,    son    of  William.    1,    b.   1671.    S^pt.   27;  m.   Mary    . 
Ch.  Daniel,  b.  1695,  Aug.  3.   Ebenezer.  b.  1698.  Sept.  5.   Epherem.  h.  1700-1. 
Jan.  16.     Thomas,  h.  1703.  Aug.     Doritha.  b.  1713.  Dec.  25. 
6.  John,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  1684-5,  Jan.  22;  m.  1709-10,  March  13, 
Margaret  Gould,  of  Concord.  He  d.  1722-3,  31arch  31.  Ch.  Josiah.  b.  1710. 
Aug".  27.  and  d.  Sept.  6.  J<,hn.  b.  and.  d.  1711,  May  26.  Anna,  b.  1712, 
Apl-il  3;  m.  John  VVMllibie.  John.  b.  1714,  March  28.  His  name  disappears 
from  tax-list  in  1759.  and  a  widow  Frances,  is  named  for  two  years  after. 
Deborah,  b.  1716,  Aug.  9.  Samuel,  b.  1719,  April  22.  Dismissed  by  the 
church  to  Union,  Conn,  1748.     Mehittable,  b.  1721,  Xov.  12. 
 - 391 - 
24  CHAMBERLAIN  —  CHANDLER. 
7.  Abraham,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1G93,  April  17;  ni.  1708,  July  23, 
Mary  Shed,  dau.  of  John,  3.  Ho  d.  and  she  m.  John  Wilson,  3. 
Ch.  'Mart/,  b.  1718,  Dec.  28,  and  d.  young.  Abraham^  b.  1720,  Aug.  25. 
Benjamin,  b.  1722,  Oct.  18.  Jolm.  b.  1724-5.  March  19;  m.  1768,  May  18, 
Frances  Clark.  Nathan,  b.  172()-7,  March  18.  Zucchens  and  Tahitha, 
b.  1729,  Sept.  19.  Mari/,  b.  1734,  Oct.  10;  ui.  prob.  1755,  Dec.  11,  Timothy 
Wilkins.  of  Carlisle. 
8.  Clement,  son  of  Clement,  4,  b.  1694;  m.  Elizabeth    .     Lieut. 
Clement  d.  1754,  Jan.  21;  his  widow,  1767,  Jan.  7.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1717, 
Dee.  27.     Li/dia.  hap.  1755,  Sept.  28. 
9.  Josieph,  son  of  Clement,  4,  b.  1696,  Nov.  ;  m.  Mary  Johnson. 
Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1720,  April  5.  Joseph,  b.  1721-2,  Feb.  24.  Mary,  b.  1723-4, 
Jan.  27. 
10.  William,  son  of  Clement.  4,  b.  1703-4,  March  23 ;  m.  Esther    . 
Esther  Chamberlain,  prob.  his  widow,  m.  1743,  Dec.  21,  Benoni  Spalding. 
Ch.  John.  b.  1729-30,  March  15;  m.  1758,  May  18,  Frances  Clark. 
William,  11,  b.  1731-2.  March  13.     Esther,  b.  1734.  Sept.  18. 
11.  William,  son  of  William.  10,  has  son  William  bap.  1757,  Jan.  23. 
His  name  disappears  from  tax-list  the  same  year. 
CHAMPNEY.  1.  Elder  Richard,  of  Cambridge.  Avas  a  leading 
proprietor  in  Shawshin,  and  his  sons  Sanmel.  2,  and  Daniel,  lived  here  for 
a  few  years.  He  bought  in  1655,  the  farm  of  500  acres,  granted  by 
Cambridge  to  Edward  Collins,  which  was  bounded  N.  E.  by  the  W^oburn 
road,  on  both  sides  Shawshin.  and  here  Samuel  Champney  lived  until  1668, 
when  he  sold  the  place  to  Richard  Daniel.  He  had  also  a  share  of  the 
Dudley  farm,  occupied  by  his  son  Daniel,  west  of  the  Woburn  road,  and 
south  of  John  Steams.  He  sold,  and  returned  to  Cambridge  in  1670,  or 
soon  after,  and  in  1 672,  surrendered  certain  town  rights,  for  his  arrears  in 
ministers'  rates.     [See  Paige's  "  Cambridge,''  for  record  of  descendants]. 
2.  Samuel,  (above,)  m.  1657,  Oct.  13,  Sarah  Hubbard,  dau.  of  William 
Hamlet's  wife.  Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1658.  Dec.  8.  Sarah,  b.  1659-60.  Feb.  17. 
Marij,  b.  1662,  May  12.  Easter,  b.  1664.  May  14;  d.  1667.  March  31. 
■Samuel,  b.  1666-7.  March  19,  and  in  (Jambridge,  Joseph,  1).  1669,  Sept.  1. 
Richard,  b.  1674.  Aug.  20. 
3.  Mary,  Mrs.,  was  bom  in  W^estford.  1777,  Nov.  20,  (ace.  to  the 
town  record.)  dau.  of  Elijah  and  Mary   (Reed)   Hildreth.     She  m.  1796, 
   Maynard.  and  was  mother  of  Aaron  Maynard.     He  d.  1797.  and  she 
m.     Champney,   having  among   other  ch.  3Iarii  Ann.  who  m.  Joseph 
Farmer.  21,  and  Louisa,  who  m.  James  Fletcher.     She  d.  1878.  July  2. 
CHANDLER.  1.  John,  Rev.,  the  youngest  of  12  ch.  of  Thomas 
Chandler,  of  Andover;  was  b.  1723,  Dec.  14.  Rev.  James  Chandler,  pastor 
of  Rowley,  1732-88,  was  his  brother.  Their  father  was  son  of  William, 
of  Andover.  whose  father,  William,  came  to  Roxbury  in  1637.  John  C. 
grad.  H.  C,  1743;  was  ordained  in  Billerica,  1747,  Oct.  21;  dismissed  1760, 
June  5,  and  d.  1762,  Nov.  10.  He  lived  near  Dr.  Wilson's  place,  on  the 
Boston  road.  He  m.  1748,  Nov.  3.  Mary  White,  dau.  of  Dea.  William,,  of 
Haverhill.  She  d.  1757,  June  28,  and  he  m.  1759,  Jan.  18,  Elizabeth 
White,  dau.  of  Samuel  White,  and  her  double  cousin.  She  m.  1766, 
June  19.  Dr.  Robert  Luscombe.  of  Taunton,  and  d.  1768.  Oct.  11.  Ch.  Mary, 
b.  1749.  Sept.  8;  m.  1775.  Oct.  26,  her  cousin,  William  White,  of  Haverhill. 
He  was  a  merchant  in  Boston  and  in  Rutland.  Mass..  where  she  d.  1794. 
Feb.  21.  Of  her  5  ch.,  William  Charles  was  "'a  player,  poet,  advocate  and 
author,"  and  Moses  Hazen,  a  business  man  of  Rutland.  His  dau.  Isabella 
Hazen.  m.  Frances  Dana,  M.  i>.,  of  Boston.  H.  C.  1831  ;  and  their  son, 
George  Haz^n  Dana,  was  a  Captain  in  the  32d  Mass.  Regiment,  and  on  the 
Staft'of  Gen.  Dana,  in  the  late  War.  John.  b.  1752,  May  9;  d.  1760,  Oct.  10. 
William,  b.  1757,  June  9;  d.  1760,  Oct.  26.  Elizabeth,  "h.  1760,  Aug.  6;  m. 
1780.  Sept.  12,  Thomas  Plunnner,  of  Rowley.  She  was  a  woman  of  talent 
and  literary  tastes;  d.  1839,  Jan.  11.  Her  son,  Daniel  Farnham  Plunnner, 
had  a  great  mechanical  genius. 
 - 392 - 
CHANDLER  —  C0(  )K.  25 
2.  Thomas,  son  of  William,  of  Andover,  and  nephew  of  Eev- 
John,  1,  was  b.  1726,  Oct.  3.  He  was  a  blacksmith,  and  was  dis.  to  the 
church  in  Tewksbuiy.  1792.  His  father  or  grandfather.  William,  lived 
also  in  Billerica;  was  chosen  highway  surveyor,  1720-1.  March,  and  Moses 
Chandler  was  rated,  1724.  Ch.  Elizabeth^  b.  1758,  Jan.  27 ;  
m.  1778,  May  21, 
Enoch  Parker,  of  Andover.  William,  b.  1755,  March  2 ;  
d.  Sarah,  b.  1756' 
April  20;  m.  Jonathan  Danforth,  (spc  12).  Abigail,  b.  1758,  July  26; 
m.  Samuel  Long,  of  Tewksbury,  and  d.  within  a  few  months  of  100  years 
old,  in  Peru,  Vt.  William.  3,  b.  1760,  Nov.  26.  Hannah,  b.  1763,  April  1 ; 
d.  in  Tewksbury.  John,  b.  1766,  Nov.  14;  d.  in  Tewksbmy.  3Iary,  b.  1769' 
Dec.  12;  d.  young. 
3.  William,  son  of  Thomas.  2,  b.  1760,  Nov.  26.  He  m.  Sarah 
Sanders,  prob.  dau.  of  Anios,  8,  and  2d.  Kachel  Frost.  Only  the  yoimoest 
child  was  born  in  Billerica,  the  others  in  Tewksbury.  He  d.  1814,  March. 
Ch.  Sally,  h.  1791,  Aug.  19.  Folly,  m.  Asa  Wright.  William,  b.  about 
1800.  John  h.  1802,  Jan;  lived  near  Albany.  *S'«ra/t.  b.  1804,  June  6; 
m.  Philip  M.  Kollins.     Lurinda.   b.  1806,  May  29;  m.  Moses  I'oster. 
CHAPMAN.  It'  John,  and  wife  Lucy.  Ch.  Lucy  Jane,  b.  1828 
July  28. 
2.  Franklin  B.,  and  wife  Hannah.  Ch.  Hannah  Maria,  b.  1830, 
Aug.  21.  William  Henry,  b.  1834,  Feb  21.  John  Frederic,  b.  1836,  June  16. 
L^wy  Ann,  b.  1838.  Dec.  24.  Harriet  Augusta,  h.  IM'i,  Maivh  SO.  Sarah 
Elizabeth,  b.  1843,  Sept.  3. 
CHASE,  Enoch,  and  wife  Sarah.  Ch.  Joshna,  b.  1787,  Dec.  6. 
Eitnire,  b.  1792,  Aug.  25. 
CHEEVER.  1.  John,  m.  1754,  Jan.  22,  Susanna  Walker,  dau.  oi 
Benjamin,  3.     Ch.  John,  b.  1756,  Feb.  2. 
2.     Nathaniel,  and  wife  Lucy.     Ch.  James  P.,  b.  1826,  March  4. 
CHILD,  Moses,  and  wife  Rebecca.  Ch.  Alfred,  b.  1838,  Sept.  7. 
Juliet'a,  b.  1840.  March  18.     Willard  Pearsons,  b.  1841,  April  7. 
CLARK,  Joseph,  m.  1795,  April  2,  Rebecca  Fuller,  perhaps  dau.  of 
Silas.  Elizabeth  ui.  1803.  Jan.  30,  Thomas  Stevenson,  of  Boston;  PoUv  m. 
1803,  Dec.  1.  William  Lund. 
CLIFTON,  John,  and  ^\ife  Lucinda.  Ch.  S^isan  Caroline,  b.  1842, 
Jan.  19.     Catherine  Floyd,  b.  1844,  Sept.  3. 
CLYDE,  Joseph,  ''of  Wenham,  in  New  Hampshire,"  m.  1753,  Nov.  5 
Margaiet  Moftat. 
COLE.     1.     Elisha,  of  Boston.     Ch.  Hannah,  bap.  1775,  Sept.  3. 
2.  Samuel,  was  from  Watertown;  m.  Mary  Marshall,  of  Chelmsford; 
lives  on  the  Bedford  road,  two  miles  from  village.  C'h.  John  Samuel, 
b.  1835,  July  4;  who  lives  in  Hookset,  N.  H.  Mary  Elizabeth,  b.  1837^ 
July  28;  m.  George  W.  Gragg. 
COLLINS,  Edward,  and  wife  Sarah.  Ch.  John,  b.  1834.  March  G; 
d.  July  26.  Thomas  Edtvard,  b.  1835.  May  7.  Margaret,  b.  1836,  Oct.  26 ; 
d.  Nov.  11.  Charles  Adrian,  b.  1838,  June  9.  John,  b.  1839.  July  26; 
d.  Aug.  William  Shakespeare,  b.  1841,  May  10.  Alfred  Sidney,  b.  1843^ 
Oct.  27. 
COLSON,  Israel  Aldrich,  was  b.  in  Uxbridge,  Mass.,  1803,  Aug.  4; 
m.  1832.  March  28,  Rachel  Farmer,  dau.  of  Oliver.  14.  He  lives  at  the 
Farmer  place,  by  the  Baptist  church,  in  North  Billerica.  Ch.  Caroline 
Augusta,  b.  1832,  July  10;  d.  1857.  Aug.  4.  JIary  Elizabeth,  b.  1834. 
June  9;  m.  1862,  June  4,  Julius  Jockow,  of  Lowell.  George  Fanner, 
b.  1839,  Sept.  29. 
COMBS,  John,  and  wife  Bathsheba.     Ch.  Bathsheha,  b.  1750-1,  Jan.  6. 
CONANT,  William,  on  tax-list.  1776-9.     Ch.  Betsey,  l,ax>-  1795,  Aug. 
CONNERY,  (or  Coxray.)  John,  m.  1761,  April  8,  Lydia  Farley,  dau. 
of  James,  11.  His  name  disappears  from  tax-list,  1768.  Ch.  John,  b.  1761, 
Dec.  28.     Sarah,  b.  1764,  Dec.  13.     Lydia,  bap.  1766,  Sept.  20. 
COOK.  1.  Paul,  of  Wihnington,  came  to  Billerica  about  1771,  and 
d.   1787.       His  will  names  children   John,   Abigail,   m.  James  Pearson, 
 - 393 - 
26  COOK  —  COWDRV. 
3Icrcy,  in.  Jonathan  Knapp,  Sarah.,  m.  1774,  May  19,  Arch^laus  Tay, 
of  Wohnni.  and  2(1,  Williani  Laws,  havin":  a  dau.  Sarah  Tay;  Sears,  2, 
wiio  had  tlic  homestoad,  and  was  exocutor  and  residuary  legatee. 
2.  Sears,  in.  1771.  Dee.  10,  Abigail  Crosby,  dan.  of  Francis.  15.  He 
lived  in  the  east  part  of  the  town;  d.  ISKi,  Sept.  1.  aged  70.  Ch.  AhigaiL 
b.  177;^.  Feb.  11  ;  ni.  John  Crosby,  2.S.  Francis.  3,  b.  1775,  Aug.  25.  Susan, 
and  Sarah,  b.  177S,  May  G.  Susan  ni.  ISOO,  Nov.  27,  Benjamin  Walker,  of 
Wilmington.     Sarah  ni.  Josepli  (ileason. 
3.  Francis,  son  of  Sears.  2,  b.  1775,  Aug.  25;  m.  1803.  April  14, 
Elizabeth  Kuggles.  dau.  of  William,  and  gr.dau.  of  Rev.  Sanuiel.  He 
d.  1831,  July  o,and  she  d.  1834.  Oct.  13.  Ch.  Betsey,  b.  1804.  March  30; 
ni.  182G,  Nov.  30,  George  Flint,  of  Reading.  Francis,  b.  1805,  April  3; 
d.  1808,  May  27.  Sears.  4,  b.  1807,  May  1.  Francis,  h.  ISOS,  Aug.  14; 
m.  1830,  April  6,  Eliza  Emerson,  of  Wilmington;  d.  183G,  Oct.  6.  Jahn, 
b.  1811.  March  24;  m.  1837,  April  IG.  Fanny,  the  widow  of  his  brother. 
Sears;  d.  1837.  Nov.  2S.      ]ViUiam.  b.  1817,  Feb.  2{;  d.  18.59.  May  10. 
4.  Sears,  son  of  Francis.  3,  1).  1807,  May  1 ;  m.  1832.  Aug.  2G,  Fanny 
Butters,  of  Wilnungton.  He  d.  183G,  Dee.  1,  and  she  m.  his  brother  John, 
iand  after,  Hiram  Harrington.  Cli.  Fanny  Jane  and  Sears  James,  b.  1832. 
Novi  3 ;  
he  d.  1833,  Nov.  30.  Fanny  m.  1853,  Sept.  14,  Levi  H.  Reed.  Sears 
James,  6,  b.  1834.  Sept.  29. 
5.  Sears  James,  son  of  Sears.  4,  b.  1834.  Sept.  29;  m.  18G1.  Feb.  10, 
Abbie  Buck,  of  Wilmington.  He  lives  in  the  village,  near  Fox  hill. 
Ch.  Arthur  Sears,  h.  18(iGr  March  3.     Javies  Herltcrt.  b.  1869,  Aug.  8. 
CORNEAL.  1.  Peter,  lived  south-east  of  the  Shawshin  rivei-,  in  the 
part  annexed  to  AVilmington.  1737.  The  '•  Cornell  tavern  "  was  a  well 
known  house  in  later  davs.  standing  on  the  Wilmington  road  where  another 
road  turns  to  the  south-west.  He  m.  1G95,  Aug.  9,  Joanna  Marshall,  dau. 
of  Jolm.  She  d.  1704,  Dec.  28,  and  he  m.  1708,  Elizabeth  Frost,  dau.  of 
Dea.  James.  Vh.  Susannah,  b.  1G9G-7.  Feb.  22.  Mary.  b.  1699,  April  13. 
Peter.  2,  b.  1702,  Sept.  28.  John,  b.  1703-4.  Feb.  3.  Elizabeth,  b.  1709, 
Oct.  24.  Sarah,  b.  1711-2.  Jan.  25.  and  prob.  Hannah,  who  m.  John 
Frost,  12. 
2.  Peter,    son    of    Peter,    1,   b.   1702.   Sept.   28;    m.    Rebecca    . 
Ch.  Bchecra.  b.  1728,  June  7;  m.  1750.  May  24.  John  Demercy.  Hannah, 
b.  1731,  April  20;  m.  1760,  May  13,  John  Eames.  Joanna,  b.  1*733,  Julv  14. 
Peter.  3,  b.  1736,  April  25.  Sarah,  b.  1740,  Feb.  20;  m.  1763,  Dec.  8, 
Joshua  Harnden.  Mary,  b.  1742,  Aug.  13,  (in  Wilmington,)  ra.  17G6, 
Feb.  l3.  Joseph  Winn;  prob.  June,  who  m.  1766,  Oct.  9,  Asa  Buck, 
in  Wilmington. 
3.  Peter,  son  of  Peter,  2,  b.  1736,  April  25;  m.  1761,  April  30, 
Hepsibah  Temple.  Ch.  John,  b.  1762,  Sept.  10.  James,  4,  b.  1764,  Oct.  2. 
Ehenezer.  b.  1766,  Feb.  9. 
4.  James,  son  of  Peter,  3,  m.  1787,  Jan.  4,  Lucretia  Jaquith.  She 
m.  2d.  180!),  Feb.  16.  Cyrus  Taylor.  Ch.  James  and  Lucretia.  b.  1784, 
Oct.  22.     James,  5,  b.  1797,  Aug.  12. 
5.  James,  son  of    James.   4,   m.   Polly    .     Ch.  James  Thompson, 
b.  1821.  March  24.     jMary.  b.  1822,  Oct.  9.     Charlotte,  b.  1825.  Feb.  22. 
CORY,  Jacob,  and  wife  Sarah.     Cli.  Jacob,  b.  1716.  Marc^h  25. 
COWDRY,   (COUDKE,   the  early  form).       1.     "John,    "of  Billerica," 
m.  Hannah  Davis,  of  Groton,  1744."  31ay  30.     He  was  on  tax-hst  of  1746, 
only;  liad  cli.  John,  Jonathan  and  David  bap.  in  Westford,  1750-6. 
'      '2.     Joseph,  son  of  Nathaniel,  of  Westford.  b.  1781,  March  19.     His 
mother  was  Rebecca  Parker,  dau.  of  Samuel.  12.     He  m.  Lucy  Brown, 
dau.  of  Thomas.  12.     Ch.  Fbenezer    ,  m.  Betsey  Gibson,  wlio  lives  a 
widow  at  the  corner.  Maria,  b.  1805.  Feb.  16;  in.  Wyers.  Joseph.  3, 
b.  1807,  Jan.  18.  Silas  Pa-rker.  4,  b.  1810.  Feb.  16.  EUas.  5,  b.  1812, 
Feb.  5.     Francis  B..^.     Isaac.  7 .     Lucy. 
3.     Joseph,  son  of  Joseph,  2,  b.   1807.  Jan.   18 ;  in.  Ann  Eliza    . 
Ch.  3Iary  Eliza,  b.  1830,  Feb.  12;  in.  Johnson.      Warren,  b.  1833,  May  12; 
 - 394 - 
COWDRY  —  CROSBY.  27 
lives  in  Boston.  Lucy  Ann.  b.  183.5,  July  5.  Joseph  Sarf/ent^  b.  18.38. 
March  6;  d.  18.54,  July  10.  Sargent  F.,  b.  1837,  Dec.  25;  d.  Emma  Frances, 
b.  184G.  Jan.  31.  ' 
4.  Silas  H.  Parker,  son  of  Joseph,  2,  b.  1810,  Feb.  IG;  ni.  1832, 
Catlierine  P.  Johnson,  dau.  of  Cyrus,  of  Burlington.  He  lives  on  West 
street.  Ch.  Laura  Ami,  b.  1833,  Nov.  22 ;  
d.  1838,  April  2.  Catherine, 
b.  1835,  May  23  ;  m.  John  Robbins  ;  lives  in  Lowell.  Silas,  b.  1838,  May  3  ; 
m.  Mary  ]Mc('arty.  and  lives  in  North  Billerica;  has  ch.  Nelly  M.  Silas  A. 
William  J.  Catherine  L.  and  Charles  E.  Marcus  Jlortun,  b.  1840.  Laura  A., 
b.  1845,  May  20;  ni.  William  H.  Monroe. 
5.  Elias,  son  of  Joseph,  2,  b.  1812,  Feb.  5;  m.  Elissa  Johnson, 
sister  of  the  wife  of  Silas  ;  
d.     Ch.  Oliver  W.  ;  lives  in  Lawrence. 
9.  Francis  Bacon,  son  of  Joseph,  2,  m.  Lydia  Baldwin,  dau.  of 
Benjamin,  of  Carlisle.  He  lives  in  West  Billerica.  on  the  south  road  to 
Chelmsford.  Ch.  Frank  Edward,  b.  1842,  May  IG.  Elias  Wilder,  b.  1844. 
Jan.  IG.  3Iary  Amanda,  b.  1845,  June  27.  Henrietta,  b.  1847,  July  4. 
Gxanvillc.     Julia.     Adelaide.     Fostina.     Chastina.     Francis. 
wife. 7.   Isaac,  son  of  Joseph,  2,  m.  Ehoda  Baldwin,  sister  of  his  bi'other's 
Ch.  Mary  Fletcher,  b.  1839,  Julv  8. 
eRAGIN.  1.  Silas,  and  wife  Nancy.  Ch.  Lorenzo,  b.  1799,  Sept.  30. 
Nanaj,  b.  1801,  Sept.  20. 
2.  Aaron  had  ch.  Milo,  Miranda  and  Charles  bap.  1803,  April  15. 
Moses,  bap.  1805,  Feb.  24.     Frederic  bap.  1807,  Sept.  13. 
CRAIGE,  Thomas,  m.  1783,  June  2G,  Phebe  Baldwin,  dau.  of 
Samuel.  11,  and  178G.  Sept.  14,  Martha  Parker.  Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1784, 
April  11.  Nancy,  bap.  1787,  May  6;  m.  1809,  Sept.  14,  Thomas  Howard. 
William,  bap.  1789,  March  1.  Martha,  bap.  1793,  March  17.  Mary,  bap. 
1794,  July  5.     Tliomas  and  Elizabeth,  bap.  1798,  April  8. 
CRAiVI,  Asa,  m.  1802.  April  11,  Abigail  Wliiting,  and  1807,  Sept.  6, 
Lucy  Winning,  dau.  of  John.  Ch.  Asa,  b.  1808,  Jan.  11.  Otis,  b.  1811, 
March  1;  d.  1812,  Mav  22.  Caleb,  b.  1814,  Jan.  27.  William,  b.  1816, 
Julyl. 
CROSBY.  1.  Simon,  son  of  Simon  and  Ann,  of  Cambridge;  b.  1G37, 
Aug.  His  father  d.  1G39.  Sept.,  aged  31.  and  his  mother  m.  Rev.  William 
T.ompson.  of  Braintree.  He  m.  Rachel  Bracket,  dau.  of  Dea.  Richard,  of 
Braintree,  1659,  July  15,  and  settled  in  B.,  on  the  north  side  of  Bare  hill. 
He  became  a  large  land  holder;  inn-keeper  and  leading  citizen.  He 
d.  172.5-6,  Jan.  22.  C'h.  Bachel.  b.  1660.  Aug.  20;  ni.  1G85.  Jan.  6,  Ephraim 
Kidder,  3i.  Simon.  2,  b.  1663.  Thomas,  b.  1GG5-6,  March  10.  Joseph,  3, 
b.  1669.  July  5.  Hannah,  b.  1672,  March  30;  m.  Samuel  Danforth,  3. 
Nathan.  4,  b.  1674-5.  Fel).  9.  Josiah,  5,  b.  1677,  Nov.  11.  3fary,  b.  1680, 
Nov.  23;  m.  John  Blanchard,  1,  Sarah,  b.  1684,  July  27;  m.  William 
Rawson,  of  Braintree,  1706,  Oct.  26. 
2.  Simon,  son  of  Simon.  1,  b.  1663;  m.  Hannah    .      Shed.  1702. 
May  6.  and  he  m.  1702-3,  March  16,  Abigail  Parker,  widow  of  John,  7, 
who'd,  a  widow,  17.55,  March  31;  lived  near  the  Shawshin.  Ch.  Simon,  &, 
b.  1689,  Aug.  m.  Abigail,  b.  1691.  Jan.  G.  John.  b.  1694,  April  11 ;  d. 
1G95-6.  Jan.'G.  John.  b.  1G9G,  April  18.  Samuel,  b.  1698.  Oct.  4;  m.  1729, 
Dec.  9.  Dorothy  Brown;  lived  in  Shrewsbury.  Hannah,  b.  1700.  June  12. 
Mary,  b.  1702",  May  1.  James.  7,  b.  1704,  May  29.  Phinens,  b.  1705, 
Nov.  26.  Solomon,  b.  1708.  April  8.  Nathaniel,  b.  1710,  Dec.  3;  d. 
1711,   May   28.     Hachel.-h.  1712,  June  7.     Be njcmiin.  h.  1715,  Dec.  16. 
3.  Joseph,  son  of  Simon,  1,  b.  1669,  July  5;  m.  1691,  May  6,  Sarah 
French,  dau.  of  Ivieut.  William,  1.  He  prob.  lived  east  of  Nutting's  pond. 
Ch.  Joseph,  8i,  b.  1692,  Sept.  3.  Sarah,  b.  1694,  June  12;  m.  (?)  Thomas 
Hunt,  5.  iJfff/ieZ,  b.  1695,  April  18;  m.  Samuel  Stearns,  6.  William.  9, 
b.  1697-8,  Feb.  13.  Mary.  b.  1699-700,  Jan.  12;  m.  1718,  June  5,  Eleazer 
Ellis,  of  Dedham.  Tliomas.  10,  b.  1701,  Oct.  12.  David,  11,  b.  1703. 
March  27.  Prudence,  b.  1705,  May  U.  Hannah,  b.  1706-7,  March  9. 
Deborah,  b.  1709,  Julv  13;  m.  1727,  March  31,  Peter  Russell,  of  Andover. 
Robert,  b.  1711,  July  20,     Pelletiah,  b.  1713,  Nov.  5. 
 - 395 - 
28  CROSBY. 
4.  Nathan,  son  of  Simon,  1,  h.  l()74-r).  Feb.  9;  m.  170G.  Sept.  28, 
Savali  Shed,  dau.  of  John,  3 ;  she  d.  174()-7.  March  8.  He  d.  1741),  April  11. 
Ch.  Sarah,  h.  17()G,  Dec.  22.  Nathan,  12,  b.  1708,  April  o.  Eadid,  b.  1710, 
March  30;  ni.  Peter  Hill,  17.  Dnrothij.  b.  1712.  April  9;  m.  Benjamin 
Whitini;-.  7.  CathcrUw,  b.  1713-4.  Feb.  18.  Olivpt;  13,  b.  1710-7.  Jan.  21. 
Marij.  b.  1722.  May  17;  m.  John  Parker,  9. 
5.  Josiah,  son  of  Simon,  1,  b.  1077,  Nov.  11;  m.  1703.  Nov.  2,  Mary 
Manning,  dau.  of  Sanuiel.  Ij  Ills  will  was  ])roved  1745.  Oct.  7.  His 
homestead  was  on  the  Woburn  load.  between  tlie  village  and  Bare  hill; 
prob.  the  same  where  his  fatlier  lived.  Ch.  Josiah.  14,  b.  1704,  Aug.  5. 
EliphaJct,  b.  1705.  Aug.  0,  and  d.  Aug.  8.  Elizabeth,  b.  1700,  Aug.  7.  and 
d.  1709,  June  14.  Anna.  b.  1708.  April  29;  m.  John  Bowers,  of  Draeut. 
1733,  Aug.  14.  Isaac  and  Ephraim.  b.  1709,  Nov.  7.  and  d.  Nov.  10.  Manj, 
b.  1712,  Aug.  24;  m.  Koger  Toothaker,  3.     EUzalwth.  b.  1713.  Dec.  1.  and 
d.  young.   Jane.  b.  1716.  June  14.   Joan)ia.  b.  1718.  July  K! ;  m.    Dutton. 
Jonathan,  b.  1719.  Aug.  1.     Esther,  b.  1721.  Dec.  31.  aild  d.  1722.  May  23. 
6.  Simon,  Lieut'.,  son  of  Simon,  2,  1).  1089,  Aug.  23;  m.  1711.  July  18, 
Rachel  Kettle,  of  Charlestown,  and  1714,  June  9,  Abigail  Kidder,  dau.  of 
Enoch.  4,  her  cousin.  She  d.  1748.  Nov.  7;  he  d.  1771,  Feb.  2. 
Ch.  Francis.  15,  b.  1715.  Oct.  25.  Abif/ail.  b.  1717,  June  5;  m.  1748, 
Samuel  Winship.  of  Lexington.  Samuel,  b.  1719.  May  20;  d.  1745,  July  9. 
John,  b.  1721,  April  19;  d.  1743.  Nov.  6.  Mary.  b.  1722,  Oct.  3;  m. 
Ebenezer  Richardson.  11.  Stephen,  b.  1723-4.  Feb.  27;  d.  1734.  July  8. 
Ephraim.  b.  1725,  Nov.  27;  d.  1728,  Aug.  29.  Elizabeth,  b.  1727,  Oct."  24; 
d.  1734,  July  4.  Hannah,  b.  1730,  April  2.  Ephraim,  16,  b.  1731.  Oct.  13. 
Fersis.  b.  1733,  Aug.  9;  m.  Jonathan  Lewis,  4.  Elizabeth,  b.  1737-8. 
Feb.  10 ;  \n.      Adams. 
7.  James,  son  of  Simon,  2,  b.  1704,  May  29;  m.  1727-8,  Feb.  1, 
Sarah    .      Ch.  James,  17,  b.  1728,  Oct.  5.      Samson.  18,  b.  1731,  Oct.  21. 
8.  Solomon,  son  of  Simon.  2,  b.  1708,  April  8;  m.  Cathrine    ,  who 
signs  a  bond,  as  his  widow,  1740,  Julv  28.  Ch.  Solomon,  b.  1740,  May  14. 
Simon,  19,  b.  1741,  Sept.  14.     John.  b.  1744,  Aug.  7. 
Hh-    Joseph,   son  of  Joseph,   3,   b.   1692.   Sept.  3;  m.  Hannah    . 
There  was  a  Joseph  Crosby  in  Londonderry.  1721.  Ch.  Benjamin,  b.  1715, 
June  15.     Hannah,  b.  1716.  Nov.  13. 
9.  William,  son  of  Joseph.  3,  b.  1697-8,  Feb.  13 ;  m.  Hannah  Ross, 
dau.  of  Thomas.  2.  He  d.  1754.  Jan.  1 ;  
Ids  widow,  1756,  Nov.  4. 
Ch.  Hannah,  h.  1721-2,  Jan.  6;  m.  Rev.  Robert  Cutler,  of  Epping,  N.  H., 
and  d.  before  1751.  William,  b.  1723,  Aug.  27.  and  d.  Martha,  b.  1724-5. 
Jan.  12;  m.  Jacob  Danforth,  16.  Frudence,  b.  1726,  Nov.  28.  Jessoniah,  20, 
b.  1728,  Oct.  7.       Sarah,   h.  1730,  June  27;  m.     Swan.       Feletiah.  b. 
1731-2.  March  10.  and  d.  March  25.  Hezekiah.  21,  b.  1732-3,  Jan.  31. 
Seth.  22,  b.  1734.  Aug.  8.  William,  b.  1737,  May  9,  and  d.  Rebecca, 
1).  1738.  July  31;  m.  1770,  Nov.  6.  Samuel  Lampson.  William,  b.  1739, 
Jan.  4;  settled  in  Townsend.  Bhoda,h.\l-iO,  Nov.  30,  il/rtry,  b.  1742. 
April  26. 
10.  Thomas,  son  of  Joseph,  3,  b.  1701,  Oct.  12;  m.  Anna  Parker, 
of  Chelmsford.  She  d.  1729.  Sept.  20.  and  he  m.  2d.  Sarah  Brown.  Sargt. 
Thomas  d.  1745.  Dec.  7.  leaving  widow  Susanna  — — .  He  lived  on  the 
Treble  Cove  road.  Ch.  Thomas,  h.  1724,  Dec.  13.  Anna,  b.  1727,  April  18; 
m.  Asa  Spalding.  3.  Jacol>.  23,  b.  1729,  Sept.  19.  Susanna,  b.  1730-1, 
March  2 ;  m.  Edward  Spalding,  2.  Sarah,  h.  1732-3.  Feb.  10.  Samiiel, 
b.  1734.  Dec.  21.  Elizabeth,  b.  1730,  Dec.  9.  William,  b.  1740.  Aug.  17, 
and  d.  Sei)t.  13. 
11.  David,  son  of  Joseph,  3,  b.  1703.  March  27;  m.  Sarah  Foster, 
dau.  of  Thomas.  4.  He  removed  to  Shrewsburv.  Ch.  Hepsibah, 
b.  1727,  Oct.  17.     David,  b.  1729,  June  5.     Sarah,  b.  173'l,  May  5. 
12.  Nathan,  son  of  Nathan.  4,  b.  1708.  April  5;  m.  1735,  June  4, 
Hannah  Martin,  of  Clielmsford.  She  d.  and  lie  m.  1757.  .Iidy  14,  Anna 
Parker,  widow  of  Samuel,  12.  Ch.  Nathan,  b.  1738-9,  March  22.  Elizabeth, 
 - 396 - 
CROSBY.  29 
b.  1741.  June  4.  She  or  Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Thomas,  10,  m.  1765.  April  11, 
Josiah  Beard,  14.  Benjamin,  b.  1744,  April  12.  Hannah,  b.  1747.  Oct.  4; 
111.  1784,  Nov.  20,  Phineas  Kidder,  of  rhelinsford.  Bachel.  bap.  1750, 
July  1.     Jeremiah,  b.  1753.  March  17.     Sarah,  bap.  1758,  April  9. 
13.  Oliver,  son  of  Nathan,  4,  b.  1716-7,  Jan.  21;  m.  liebecca    . 
He  d.  1746-7,  Feb.  27.  Ch.  Mebeckah.  b.  1743,  April  23 ;  m.  1786,  April  13, 
Malaehi  Allen,  of  Carlisle.  Oliver,  24,  b.  1744,  Sept.  17,  Josiah,  25, 
b.  1746,  April  20. 
14.  Josiah,  son  of  Josiali.  5,  b.  1704,  Aug.  5;  m.  1729-30,  Feb.  3, 
Elizabetli  French,  dau.  of  William,  7.  She  d.  1739,  Nov.  27.  He  d.  before 
1743.  Killed  by  the  Indians  says  tradition.  Ch.  Josiah.  b.  3730, 
Nov.  24.  He  was  in  the  military  service  in  1747,  on  the  C-onnecticut  river, 
and  narrowly  escaped  with  his  life  by  swimming  the  river  from  the 
anibusead(»  in  which  French.  Frost  and  Eichardson,  from  Billerica,  were 
killed,  and  Osgood  taken  captive.  He  m.  1750,  Aug.  23,  Sarah  Fitch,  dau.  of 
Joseph,  2,  and  settled  in  Monson,  in  the  part  now  Milford,  N.  H.  At  Bunker 
Hill,  he  was  a  captain  jn  Col.  Reed's  regiment,  and  had  four  sons  in  the  war. 
He  was  a  millwright  and  an  active  and  influential  citizen.  He  d.  1793.  Oct.  15, 
leaving  ten  children,  all  of  whom  had  families,  which  gave  liim  eighty-five 
grandchildren.  Of  liis  ch.,  Asa  b.  1765.  July  15,  was  an  eminent  phj^sician 
of  Sandwich  and  Gilmanton,  N.  H.,  and  the  father  of  sons  as  eminent  as 
Dr.  Josiah  Crosby,  of  Manchester,  N.  H. :  Dr.  Dixi  Crosby,  of  Hanover; 
Hon.  Nathan  Crosby,  of  Lowell  ;  Alpheus  Crosby,  Greek  professor  in 
Dartmouth  College,  and  author  of  a  useful  Greek  Grammar  and  other 
works  ;  and  Dr.  Thomas  E.  Crosby,  of  Hanover.  Judge  Crosbj%  of  Lowell, 
published  in  1877,  '"A  Crosby  Family,"  giving  full  details  of  the 
descendants  of  Josiah  Crosby.  '  
b.  1734-5,  Jan.  9.  and  d.  1736.  July William,14.  b.  1732-3.  Feb.  16.  Elizabeth, 
Esther,  b.  1736.  Sept.  17;  m.  Isaac 
Manning,  (see  7).     Alpheiis.  h.  1739.  April  22. 
15.  Francis,  son  of  Lieut.  Simon,  6,  b.  1715.  Oct.  25 ;  
m.  1739,  July  10, 
Sarah  Eichardson.  dau.  of  Thomas,  3.  She  d.  1772,  March  30.  and  he  ni. 
1773,  May  20,  Mehitable  Dutton.  Lieut.  Crosby  d.  1777,  Feb.  7. 
Ch.  Frances,  b.  1739,  Dec.  21;  d.  1758,  Oct.  21.  Sarah,  b.  1741,  Nov.  21, 
m.  Samuel  Hopkins,  of  Wilmington.  Abigail,  b.  1743,  Dec.  14 ;  m.  Sears 
Cook,  2.  Samuel.  26,  b.  1745-6.  Feb.  25.  Simon,  b.  1749,  March  7,  and  d. 
March  9.     Mary.  b.  1752.  Nov.  25.  and  d.  Dec.  5. 
16.  Ephraim,  son  of  Lieut.  Simon.  6,  b.  1731,  Oct.  13;  m.  1755, 
April  17,  Mary  Meriam.  of  Bedford.  He  d.  1808.  Feb.  29,  and  she  d.  1814, 
Nov.  30.  Ch.  Abigail,  b.  1758,  Aug.  6;  m.  Jothan  Blanchard,  9.  Anna, 
b.  1760,  March  6;  m.  1782.  Feb.  11.  Nathaniel  Henchman,  Ephraim,  27, 
b.  1762.  March  13.  John,  28,  b.  1705,  June  16.  Mary.  b.  1767,  Dec.  9;  m. 
Joseph  Kendall,  3. 
17.  James,  son  of  James.  7,  b.  1728.  Oct.  5;  m.  Sarah  Dutton.  dau. 
of  Jonathan,  8.     Ch.  Timothy.  29,  b.  1751,  May  11. 
18.  Sampson,  son  of  James,  7,  b.  1731,  Oct.  21;  m.  1757,  May  5, 
Lucy  Richardson,  dau.  of  Stephen.  7.  His  ch.  Sampson  and  Lucj'  were 
b.  in  Lexington.  Removed  to  Amherst,  N.  H.  Ch.  Stephen,  b.  1757, 
Nov.  3.  Lucy.  b.  1759,  Maj^  14.  Sampson,  b.  1761,  June  5.  Joel,  b.  1763, 
Feb.   9.      Joshua,  b.  1770,  May  31,      Ziba.  b.  1772.  Jan.  24. 
19.  Simon,  son  of  Solonion,  8,  b.  1741,  Sept.  14;  m.  1763.  Dec.  8, 
Dorothy  Farmer,  dau.  of  Andrew.  8.  His  name  disappears  from  tax-list, 
1773.  Ch.  Solomon,  b.  1765,  Jan.  8.  Dolly,  b.  1767,  Jan.  31.  Siinon, 
b.  1769.  May  6. 
20.  Jessaniah,  son  of  William,  9,  b.  1728,  Oct.  7;  m.  1751.  Dec.  19, 
Mary  Hosley,  dau.  of  Thomas,  2.  He  d.  1774,  before  April  5. 
Ch.  Jessaniah,  b.  1753.  Jan.  11;  m.  Elizabeth  Gilson.  of  Pepperell.  and  was 
a  pioneer  in  the  settlement  of  Hebron,  N.  H..  first  called  Cockermouth. 
Two  of  his  sons  died  there  not  manv  years  since,  honored  citizens  ;  and 
one  Jaazaniah,  b.  1780,  April  3,  o;iad.  H.  C,  1806,  and  was  ordained,  1810. 
Oct..   16,  pastor  of  the  church  in  Cliarlestown,  N.  H.,  and  remained  in 
 - 397 - 
30  CROSBY. 
office  until  his  death,  18(U,  Dee.  30.  In  1854,  lie  tendei'ed  his  resignation, 
which  was  not  accepted  ;  
but  he  was  relieved  by  a  colleague  of  his  active 
charge,  contiiuiing  senior  ])ast()r.  Harvard  College  gave  him  the  honorary 
]).  1)..  in  1853.  He  published  an  Eiectinn  Sermon,  1830;  a  Dedication 
Sermon.  1843;  a  Semi-Centennial  Sermon  in  1800;  and  "Annals  of 
('iiarlestown.'  in  Vol.  1\  of  the  New  Hampshire  Historical  Collections. 
Learned,  genial,  prudent,  his  long  ministry  is  held  in  eminent  honor. 
Mary.  b.  17.54.  May  10;  m.  Isaac  Stearns,  (see  8.)  and  lived  in  Ashburnhani. 
Isaac,  bap.  1750,  May  10.  Susannah,  bap.  1758,  Feb.  12.  William,  bap. 
1700.  Feb.  3.     A  .son,  "bap.  1701.  Aug.  30.     Sarah,  bap.  1703,  Dec.  25. 
21.  Hezekiah,  son  of  William.  9,  b.  1732-3,  Jan.  31  ;  ni.  1754,  Feb.  7, 
Anna  AVhiting.  dau.  of  Sanniel.  6.  She  d.  1704.  Fel).  20.  and  he  ni.  1705, 
April  0,  Lucy  Kittredge.  of  Tewksbury.  He  d.  1817.  July  20.  He  lived 
south-east  of  Nutting's  pond.  Ch.  Anna,  b.  17.54.  May  11;  m.  Xathan 
Jatiuith,  of  Williamstown.  Thnothii,  h.  1750.  Maj^  5.  Deborah,  b.  1758, 
I>b.  25;  d.  1811.  Jan.  Jeremiah,  30,  b.  1700.  March  20.  Bhoda,  1).  1704, 
Jan.  3,  and  d.  Jan.  11.  L^le^|,  b.  1705,  Nov.  10;  m.  James  Lewis.  7. 
Hezekiah,  b.  1707,  Nov.  8;  owned  a  large  land  tract  in  Missouri.  William, 
b.  1770,  June  3;  grad.  H.  C  1794;  read  law  with  Hon.  Samuel  Dana,  of 
Groton;  and  in  1802,  Jan.,  settled  in  Belfast.  Me.;  one  of  the  pioneers  of 
that  region.  He  was  senator  of  Maine  District,  in  the  Mass.  Legislature  ; 
and  Chief  Justice  of  the  Court  of  Common  Pleas.  1811-23.  He  m.  1804, 
Oct.  12,  Sally  Davis,  dau.  of  Benjamin.  4;  d.  1852.  March  31,  and  his  widow 
d.  1877.  Nov.  1.  His  son.  William  George,  b.  1805.  Sept.  10.  grad.  Bowdoin 
College.  1823  ;  practised  law  in  Belfast,  and  was  Governor  of  Maine, 
1853-54.  His  alma  mater  conferred  the  honorary  degree  of  ll.  t>..  1870. 
Levi,  b.  1772.  Oct.  2.  Martf,  h.  1783.  March  2.  Levi  and  Marv  are  not 
mentioned  in  will.  Achsah^  b.  1780.  Oct.  2;  m.  1809,  Oct.  20,  David 
Parker,  21. 
22.  Seth,  son  of  William,  9,  b.  1734,  Aug.  8;  m.  1757,  April  29, 
Eachel  Hill.  dau.  of  Peter.  17.  She  d.  1814.  Feb.  19.  and  hed.  April  18.  He 
lived  south  of  Nutting's  pond,  at  the  Fiske  place.  Ch.  Barhel,  b.  1758, 
April  19.  and  d.  1702.  March  25.  Prudence,  1).  1759.  Sei^t.  22.  Sarah, 
1).  1701,  March  31;  m.  Timothv  Foster,  11.  J?nrc/ifL  b.  1703.  Jan.  7;  m. 
1789,  March  3,  Abijah  Cutler,  "^of  Brookfield.  Bhoda,  b.  1704.  Nov,  12; 
d.  1778,  Sept.  21.  Seth,  31,  b.  1700.  Dee.  5.  Allice,  b.  1708.  Nov.  2; 
d.  1771,  July  0.  Hannah,  b.  1771,  May  22;  m.  1791,  March  24,  Luke 
Lane,  of  Bedford.  Joshua,  b.  1774.  ]May  18.  and  d.  1778,  Sept.  15.  Bhoda,, 
b.  1780.  Dec.  2;  m.  Stephen  Eichardson,  23. 
23.  Jacob,  son  of  Thomas.  10,  b.  1729.  Sept.  19;  m.  1701.  April  8, 
Hannah  Russell.  His  farm  was  next  to  Chelmsford.  His  estate  was 
settled,  1770.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1701.  Dec.  28.  Beuhen,  b.  1704,  Feb.  11. 
(The  record  of  baptisms  names  this  child  Behecca).  Zilpah,  b.  1707, 
Oct.  20;  m.  Joseph  Stearns,  17.  Jacob,  b.  1709.  April  18.  Samuel,  b.  1773, 
June  1. 
24.  Oliver,  son  of  Oliver,  13,  b.  1749,  Sept.  17 ;  m.  1708.  March  17, 
Kachel  Stickney,  dau.  of  Daniel,  3.  He  was  deacon  ;  
lived  east  of  Bare  hill  ; 
d.  1825,  Sept.  17.  Ch.  Oliver,  b.  1709,  March  17;  grad.  H.  C..1795;  studied 
law.  and  settled  in  Dover.  N.  H.,  1798.  In  1822.  he  removed  to  Atkinson. 
Me.,  where  he  had  acquired  large  land  interests,  and  d.  there  1851.  July  29. 
He  m.  Harriet  Chase,  dau.  of  Stephen,  of  Portsmouth.  Had  ch.  Harriet, 
b.  1801.  June  12;  m.  E.  T.  Morrill,  Bangor.  Oliver,  h,  1802,  Nov.  30.  and 
d.  in  Illinois.  1870.  William  Chase,  b.  1800.  Dec.  2;  a  lawyer  in  Bangor. 
Cornelia,  b.  1810,  March  27;  m.  Dr.  Amasa  Barrett.  Bangor.  Henrietta,  b. 
1814.  Nov.  27;  m.  George  W.  Ingersoll.  Bangor.  Josiali,h.  1810.  Nov.  24; 
grad.  B.  C.,  1835;  a  lawyer  in  Atkinson.  "Michael,  32,  b.  1771,  May  3. 
Josiah.M^h.l777,  Feb.  8.  B<ichel.  h.  1779.  Dec.  25;  d.  1795.  Nov.'  12. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1782.  July  30;  m.  1810,  June  5.  John  Wheeler,  of  Dover.  N.  H. 
25.  Josiah,  S(m  of  Oliver.  13,  b.  1740.  A])ril  20:  ni.  1772.  Dec.  1, 
Sarah  Cummings.  dau.  of  Nathaniel.  He  d.  1819,  July  20.  She  d.  1823, 
Aug.  20.     No  children. 
 - 398 - 
CROSBY.  31 
2G.  Samuel,  son  of  Francis,  15,  b.  1745-(3.  Feb.  25;  ni.  1772,  Feb.  (5. 
Abioail  Bailey,  of  Lancaster.  His  inventory  taken  in  177G.  He  lived  in 
Bedford.     Cli.  AhujaiL  b.  1772,  Dec.  7.     Samueh  bap.  1774.  July  17. 
27.  Ephraim,  son  of  Ephraini.  16,  b.  1762,  Marcli  13;  ni.  1788. 
March  13.  harah  Frendi,  dau.  of  AA'illiani.  13^.  He  lived  near  Shawshin 
river;  removed  in  1815  to  Milford.  N.  H..  and  d.  1820.  Ch.  Sarah. 
h.  1789.  Oct.  -29;  d.  179(i.  Mav  25.  Ephraim.  b.  1791,  June  27;  d.  1808, 
Sept.  10.  Riifiis,  b.  1793.  Jaii.  2,  and  d.  1790.  May  28.  Anna,  b.  1794. 
Oct.  10;  m.  Joseph  Goodhue,  of  New  Boston.  Utifus,  h.  179G.  Xov.  7; 
lived  in  Milford.  Sarah,  b.  1798.  Sept.  15 ;  m.  Thomas  Wilkins,  of  Amherst. 
Charles,  b.  1800,  May  31 ;  
lived  in  Boston.  3Iarij.  b.  1802.  May  6 ;  m.  David 
Huse.  of  Foxboro".  St/lvester.  h.  1804,  April  12;  lived  in  Lowell.  Caleb, 
b.  1806,  Jun?  17;  lived  in  Lowell.  Liicy  and  Loizia,  b.  1808,  March  26. 
Ephraim.  b.  1810,  April  13 ;  
lived  in  Lowell.  George,  b.  1813,  May  22; 
lived  in  Lowell. 
28.  John,  son  of  Ephraim,  16,  b.  1705,  June  16;  m.  1796.  Dec.  15, 
Abigail  Cook,  dau.  of  ,Sears,  2.  He  d.  1834,  Jan.  11.  Ch.  Abigail,  b.  1799, 
May  15;  m.  Jeremiah  Eogers,  {see  16).  John.  34,  b.  1805,  Dec.  8.  Harriet, 
b.  1807.  Oct.  28;  m.  1836,  Aug.  16,  Lvman  Ward,  of  Koxbury.  Francis, 
b.  1811,  Julv  31;  d.  1829.  Dec.  20. 
29.  Timothy,  son  of  James,  17,  b.  1751,  May  11;  m.  1772.  Jan.  14. 
Susanna  Sanders,  dau.  of  Obadiah,  and  1796.  Dec.  15.  Mary  Frye,  of 
Andover.  Ch.  Susanna,  b.  1772.  April  12;  m.  1794,  Dec.  20.  Amos  Hosmer. 
Timothy,  b.  at  Andover.  1774.  April  9.  Ebenezer,  b.  1776.  Sept.  26. 
Thomas.  S5,  b.  at  Andover.  1778.  Feb.  23.  Jedediah.  b.  1779,  April  22. 
Nathaniel,  b.  at  Carlisle.  1781.  Nov.  25;  m.  1810,  Jime  27,  Olive  Towns. 
Hezekiah.h.  at  Tewksbury,  1784.  Jan.  18.  3IoUy,  b.  1785.  Oct.  30;  m. 
1807.  Jan.  21,  Henry  Blanchard,  of  Andover.    Sarah,  m.  Aaron  Danforth,  28. 
30.  Jeremiah,  son  of  Hezekiah,  21,  b.  1760.  March  20;  m.  1783, 
Oct.  13.  Abigail  Jaquith,  who  d.  1810.  Jan.  12,  and  he  m.  1810,  Dec.  25, 
Lucy  Winship.  He  d.  1821,  Oct.  19;  his  Avidow,  1841,  April  11,  aged  72. 
Ch.  Ja-emiah,  36,  b.  1784,  Aug.  15,  Abigail,  b.  1786,  Jime  4 ;  m.  1808, 
Feb.  4,  Jeremiah  Hobson,  of  Deering,  N.  H.  Silence,  still-born,  1788, 
May  25.  Hannah,  b.  1790,  Mav  1 ;  
d.  1796,  Feb.  28.  Zoa.  b.  1792,  May  27; 
d.  1796,  March  18.  Lticy.  b.  1794,  Aug.  23;  d.  1796,  March  12.  Hannah, 
b.  1797,  April  7;  m.  1819,  April  8.  Joshua  Learned,  of  Cambridge.  Sumner, 
h:  1801.  March  21;  m.  1826,  Nov.,  Harriet  Blanchard,  dau.  of  Joseph,  11, 
and  Uved  in  Boston  ;  d.  1875,  April  10.  Alonzo,  b.  1803.  March  22;  d.  1860, 
Jan.  17.  Lucy.  b.  1805.  May  17;  m.  1831.  Oct.  7,  John  Osborn,  of  Belfast. 
He  d.  1860.  in  New  Orleans;  she  now  lives  in  Melrose. 
31.  Seth,  son  of  Setli.  22,  b.  1766,  Dec.  5 ;  
lived  south-east  of  Nutting's 
pond,  on  the  Middlesex  tui-npike;  m.  1790.  July  13.  Mehitable  Kittredge, 
dau.  of  Nehemiah,  13.  She  d.  1814,  Feb.  16,  and  his  .wife,  Mary,  d.  1844, 
July  25,  aged  73.  He  d.  1848.  June  4.  Ch.  Betsey  m.  1816,  Jan., 
Edward  W'lnship,  of  Lexingtcm.  Harvey.  37.  7i>Hdff/nived  in  Boston  ; 
m.  1826,  April  23,  Elizabeth  Hill,  of  Arlington,  dau  of  David,  and  1834, 
Feb.  9.  Lydia,  her  sister.  Clarissa  d.  1849,  Feb.  11,  aged  54.  Augustus 
lived  in  Warner.  N.  H.  ;  m.      Currier. 
32.  Michael,  son  of  Oliver,  24,  b.  1771.  May  3;  m.  1792,  March  27, 
Asenath  Blanchard,  dau.  of  Simon.  4.  Ch.  Michael,  38,  b.  1792,  April  29. 
Asenath.     Frederic,  b.  1795,  Sept.  2. 
33.  Josiah,  son  of  Oliver,  24,  b.  1777,  Feb.  8;  m.  1803,  Oct.  16. 
Betsey  Hartwell,  of  Littleton.  He  d.  1829,  July  27.  Ch.  Elizabeth 
Heyichod,  b.  1804,  Aug.  12;  m.  1826.  Dec.  13,  Rev.  Bernard  Whitman.  He 
was  brother  of  Kev.  Nathaniel  Whitman,  b.  1796.  June  8.  Student  at 
H.  C.  but  did  not  graduate.  Studied  theology  with  Dr.  Abbot,  of  Bevei-ly; 
was  ordained  at  Waltham,  1826,  June  8,  and  d.  there,  1834,  Nov.  5.  He 
Avas  an  active  and  vigorous  writer  in  the  Christian  Examiner  ;  editor  of  the 
Unitarian;  and  ]niblished  a  volume  of  'Village  Sermons,"  1832;  two  letteis 
to  Prof.  Stuart,  1830;  and  a  dozen  sermons  on  various  occasions.   (See  Am. 
 - 399 - 
32  CROSBY  —  CUMMINGS. 
Quar.  Reg.,  Vol.  XII,  pp.  254  and  278).  Oliver,  39,  b.  1806,  Feb.  8. 
Rachel  Ann.  b.  1807,  June  11 ;  
d.  1821,  Nov.  G.  Siisannah,  b.  1801).  Api-ill4; 
ux.  1832,  Nov.  1,  Tliaddevis  Brown,  M.  i)..  wlio  graduated  at  Yale  College, 
1820;  Harvard  Medical  College,  1830;  and  d.  1839.  Sept.  28,  aged  37.  She 
d.  184.5.  June  28,  and  a  son  Thaddeus  d.  1838,  Mareh  11,  aged  4.  Sarah 
Cumim/s,  h.  1813.  Sept.  25.  Martha,  b.  1816,  July  10.  Jusiah,  b.  1818, 
Jan.  17;  lives  in  Andover. 
34.  John,  son  of  John,  28,  b.  1805,  Dec.  8;  m.  Isabella  H.  Goodwin, 
dau.  of  Cliarles,  4.  Ch.  Wlen  Maria,  b.  1840,  Get.  12.  Francis  Lyman, 
b.  1842,  Sei)t.  4.     Simon,  b.  1844,  May  23.     Laura  Isabella,  b.  1846,  June  6. 
35.  Thomas,   son   of  Timothy,  29,  b.  1778.  Feb.  23;  m.  Sally    . 
Ch.  ThoiiKts,  b.  1802,  Aug.  25.  In  Tewksbury:  Lydia,  b.  1805,  Get.  1. 
Mary  Ann,  b.  1811,  June  20.      Thomas,  b.  1813,  May  4. 
36.  Jeremiah,  son  of  Jeremiah,  30,  b.  1784,  Aug.  15;  m.  1812, 
Nov.  20,  lUitli  Bowman,  dau.  of  Abel,  2.  She  d.  1830.  Got.  11.  and  he  m. 
Luoy  Goodwin  who  d.  1846,  May  28,  aged  54;  he  d.  1872,  Nov.  18. 
Ch.  Albert,  b.  1813.  Sept.  23.  Leander,  40,  b.  1815.  July  5.  Ambrose 
and  Abigail,  b.  1817,  June  10.  Ambrose  d.  1847,  Dec.  31,  New  Bedford. 
Abigail  m.  18.50,  Nov.  28,  Jackson  Richardson,  of  Boston.  Abel  Bowman 
b.  1822,  Get.  17.     Emih/,  b.  1825.  Feb.  21.     Benslow,  b.  1833,  June  23. 
37.  Harvey,  son  of  Seth,  31,  m.  Esther  Melvin.  She  d.  1846,  Nov.  13. 
He  lived  north-east  of  Bare  hill;  d.  1872.  Feb.  1.  Ch.  Clarissa  Auqusta, 
b,  1820.  Feb.  1;  d.  1850,  Dec.  14.  3Iaria.  b.  1822,  Jan.  7.  Henri/,  b.  1824, 
Dec.  25.  George,  b.  1828,  Jan.  20.  William,  b.  1830,  April  18.  Edwin, 
b.  1834,  June  19.     Seth,  b.  1841,  Jan.  1. 
38.  Michael,  son  of  Michael,  32,  b.  1792,  April  29 ;  m.  1816,  April  29, 
Margaret  Tufts,  widow  of  Cyrus  Farmer,  (see  13) .  He  lived  on  Vine  brook. 
Ch.  Josiah  Michael,  b.  1817,  Jan.  27  ;  
lived  in  C-onnecticut.  Warren  Brooks, 
b.  1818,  Get.  25;  d.  Lucretia  Richardson,  b.  1820,  June  16.  Cyrus  Farmer. 
b.  1822,  Sept.  2;  lives  in  Somerville.  Franklin,  b.  1824,  Dec.  18;  went  to 
Mexican  War,  and  pever  returned.     Ann,  b.  1827,  Aug.  19.     Ellen. 
39.  Oliver,  son  of  Josiah,  33,  b.  1806,  Feb.  8;  m.  Hannah 
Elizabeth    .      Ch.  Bernard  Whitman,  h.  1831,  Jan.  6.      Oliver, 
Feb.  9.  Josiah,  b.  1835,  May  25.  Sumner,  b.  1837,  March  2. 
Elizabeth,  h.  1840,  June  24.  Frederick  Augustus,  b.  1841,  Dec.  15.  Rachel 
Ann,  b.  1843,  Get.  9;  d.  1848,  April  5.  Mary,  b.  1846,  Jan.  27;  d.  1848, 
April  3. 
40.  Leander,  son  of  Jeremiah,  b.  1815,  July  5 ;  
lives  on  his  father's 
place,  east  of  Nutthig's  pond;  m.  1846,  Feb.  22,  Abigail  Moody,  of 
Vassalboro,  Me.  CJi.  Rnthy  Isadora,  b.  1850,  Jan.  8;  m.  John  Russell 
Lowell,  of  Boston.  William,  b.  1853,  April  15;  d.  1854,  March  9.  Frank 
William,  b.  1855,  Sept.  1. 
41.  Benjamin  Franklin,  son  of  Nathaniel,  of  Tewksbury,  (see  29), 
b.  1830,  Ai)ril  3 ;  m.  1857,  April  19,  Amanda  P.  Munroe.  Ch.  Henry 
Franklin,  b.  1858,  April  10. 
CUMINGS.  John  Cunuuings.  of  Rowley.  1667.  perhaps  son  of  Isaac, 
of  Ipswich,  m.  Sarah  Howlett,  dau.  of  Sergt.  Thomas,  of  Ii)swich.  He 
remov(Hl  to  Dunstable,  and  was  one  of  the  leading  men;  selectmen  and 
town-clerk.  He  had  ch.  John,  Nathaniel,  Sary,  Thomas,  Abraham.  Isaac, 
and  Ebeiiezf^r  ;  d.  1700,  Dec.  1,  and  his  wife,  Dec.  7.  John,  his  son,  had 
seven  ch.  of  whom  Sanmel  Avas  b.  1680,  Get.  6.  and  lived  in  Groton,  \^'here 
liis  son  Jerahmael  was  b.  1711.  Get.  10.  Nathaniel  lived  in  Dunstable  and 
had  a  son  Nathaniel  b.  1699,  Sept.  8 ;  was  prob.  father  of  Nathaniel,  of 
Billerica. 
1.  Nathaniel,  (see  above),  m.  1749,  Nov.  29,  Kathrine  Baldwin,  dau.  of 
John,  9.     Her  name  takes  the  place  of  his  on  the  tax-list,  1773.     She  d.  in 
Dunstable.  1807,  Nov.  4.     Ch.  Nathaniel,  b.  1751,  Feb.  3;  m.    ,  and  d. 
in  Dunstable,  1812,  May  21.  Sarah,  b.  1753,  June  2;  ni.  Josiah  Crosby,  26. 
Kate,  b.  1755.  July  21.  Pattey,  b.  1757,  Mareh  5;  m.  Benjamin  Dutton,  son 
of  John,  10.     Bette,  b.  1761,  Jan.  17. 
 - 400 - 
 - 401 - 
mn^  ^iryujiaj 
 - 402 - 
CUMINGS— CURRIER.  33 
2.  Henry,  Rev.,  son  of  Jeraliiuael,  (above,)  b.  1739,  Sfpt.  16.  His 
fathtn-  lived  in  the  west  part  of  Dunstable,  and  was  one  of  the  petitioners 
in  1738.  who  oljtained  the  incorporation  of  the  Parish  of  West  Dunstable, 
which  became  the  town  of  IloUis  in  174G.  His  mother  was  Hannali  Farwell, 
dau.  of  Henry.  Jerahmael  Cumings  d.  1747,  Oct.  21.  and  his  widow  m.  Dea. 
Stephen  Jewett.  She  liad  five  children  by  each  marriage.  Hannali 
Cumings,  her  oldest  dau..  m.  James  Hol)art,  who  was  one  of  the  first 
settlers  in  1764.  of  Plymouth,  X.  II.  Her  son  James  b.  1766,  Aug.  2,  was 
the  first  child  born  in  the  town.  He  grad.  D.  C,  1794;  studied  tlieology 
with  Eev.  Dr.  Asa  Burton,  of  Thetford;  was  ordained  over  tlie  cliurch 
just  organized  in  Berlin,  Yt.,  1798,  Xov.  7.  and  so  remained  moi'e  than 
tliirty  years.  He  d.  in  Berlin,  1862.  July  16,  having  devoted  liis  later  years 
to  missionary  labors  in  Vermont  and  Xew  Hampsliire.  After  he  was  90 
years  old.  hewalked  on  one  Sabbath  12  or  15  miles  and  preaclied  to  three 
congregations.  Jotliam,  tlie  only  brother  of  Rev.  Henry  Cumings,  was 
also  one  of  the  Plymouth  pioneers,  and  has  left  a  numerous  posterity 
there.  Henx-y  Cumings  grad.  H.  C,  1760;  tauglit  school  in  Reading,  1761  ; 
studied  tlieology  with  Daniel  Emerson,  the  eminent  HoUis  pastor,  who 
preached  his  ordination  sermon;  was  ordained  in  Billerica,  1763,  Jan.  26, 
and  d.  in  office,  1823.  Sept.  5.  The  Rev.  Mr.  AVliitman  had  been  his 
colleague  fi-om  1814.  Jan.  26.  Harvard  College  gave  him  tlie  honorary 
degree  of  D.  D.,  in  1800.  He  was  often  called  in  council,  and  to  preach  on 
public  occasions.  The  list  of  his  publications,  as  revised  by  himself,  for 
Mr.  Farmer's  Historical  Memoir,  is  as  follows:  — 
1.  On  the  day  of  Public  Thanksgiving,  27  November,  1766. 
2.  On  the  day  of  Thanksgiving,  23  Xovember.  1775. 
3.  A  Sermon  preached  at  Lexington,  on  the  the  19  April,  1781. 
4.  On  the  General  Election,  at  Boston.  28  May,  1783. 
5.  On  the  day  of  National  Thanksgiving.  11  Deceml)er,  1783. 
6.  At  the  ordination  of  Reverend  Phinehas  Wright,  at  Bolton, 
26  October,  1785. 
7.  On  Natural  Religion,  28  June,  1795. 
8.  On  Thanksgiving  Day,  15  December,  1796. 
9.  On  Thanksgiving  Day,  27  November,  1798. 
10.  At  the  ordination  of  Reverend  Caleb  Bradley  at  Falmouth, 
9  October.  1799. 
11.  Eulogy  on  Gen.  George  Washington,  10  January,  1800. 
12.  On  the  Public  Fast,  9  April,  1801. 
13.  Charity  Sermon  at  Roxbury,  21  September,  1802. 
14.  An  Half -Century  Sermon,  21  February,  1813. 
15.  Right-Hand  of  Fellowship,  annexed  to  the  Sermon,  preached  at 
the  ordination  of  Reverend  Elijah  Dunbar,  at  Peterborough,  N.  H., 
23  October,  1799. 
16.  Charge,  annexed  to  the  Sermon,  preached  at  the  ordination  of 
Rev.  Wilkes  Allen,  at  Chelmsford.  16  November,  1803. 
17.  Charge,  annexed  to  the  Sermon,  at  the  ordination  of  his  colleague, 
Reverend  N.  Whitman.  26  January,  1814. 
He  m.  1763,  May  19,  Ann  Lan'ibert.  dau.  of  Thomas  and  Elizabeth,  of 
Reading,  who  was  b.  1739.  Feb.  7.  and  d.  1784,  Jan.  5.  He  m.  1786, 
Nov.  14,  her  sister,  Mrs.  Margaret  Briggs.  who  d.  1790,  June  2,  aged  54. 
He  m.  1791,  Sept.  20,  Sarali  Bridge,  dau.  of  Rev.  Ebenezer.  of  Chelmsford; 
b.  1742.  Julv  25;  d.  1812,  Feb.  25.  Ch.  A  child,  still-born,  1766.  Aug.  15. 
Ann,  b.  1768.  July  31 ;  d.  1793.  Oct.  18.  Frances,  b.  1770,  April  7;  m.  Dr. 
William  Wilkins.  Elizabeth,  b.  1772,  Aug.  15;  m.  1800,  Dec.  25,  Lewis 
Gould,  who  was  a  merchant  in  Asliby.  They  had  no  children.  Hennj. 
b.  1774,  Sep.  9;  grad.  H.  C,  1795;  lie  did  not  marrj^;  was  a  teacher,  and 
d.  near  Louisville,  Ky.,  1828-9.  John.  b.  1781,  Feb.  11;  m.  and  had  two 
daughters. 
CURRIER,  1.  William  m.  1775,  April  25,  Bette  Richardson,  dau.  of 
Ebenezer,  14.     Ch.  William,   b.    1776,   Feb.  20.     Isaac,  2,  b.  1777,  Oct.  24. 
 - 403 - 
34  CURRIER— DANFORTH. 
John.  b.  1781.  Aug;.  G.     Josiah.  h.  1784.  March  14.     Brtsei/.  b.  1786,  June  16. 
Fraiiris.  h.  17!«.   April  1. 
2.  Isaac,  sm  of  William.  1,  b.  1777.  Oct.  24;  m.  Lucy  Farasworth. 
He  cainc  Iroiii  Dracut  about  1820.  and  lived  near  the  "  corner"  bridg?; 
d.  182.J.  Oct.  20.  and  liis  wiilow  d.  18;J4.  April  12.  aged  52.  Ch.  Lavina, 
m.  Ebcnezer  Avery,  of  Wilmington.  Lncinda  lives  in  Lowell.  Aiidinv 
d.  about  18(35.  in  New  York.  ]Vur"<'n,  a  prominent  lawyer  and  citizen  in 
St.  Louis.  Julia  Ann.  b.  1820.  Julj-  15;  ni.  Abel  Spalding,  13,  Cfeurt/e 
Wdshiinitnn.  d.  185;5.  Aug.  27.  au'ed  ;^(i. 
CUTLER,  Charles,  in.  1811  /Ma v  5.  Elizabeth  Winnino-,  dau.  of  John.  2. 
Ch.  Charles,  b.  1812.  March  1!):  d.  ISSS.  .Jan.  4.  William,  b.  1814,  Feb.  27. 
Eliznheth.  1).  181(),  Dec.  27.    Lvcij.  b.  1820,  Dec.  20.    Mirtha.  b.  1820,  Jan.  3. 
DALAND,  Beujiliuiu,  m.  Hannah  Foster,  dau.  of  Joseph.  13.  lie  d. 
1826,  April  18.  aged  63,  and  she  d.  1834.  June  1.  Oliver  Foster,  bap.  1801, 
Oct.  18.  Din.  bap.  1803,  Dec.  11.  SaUi/,  baj).  1806.  Jan.  26.  Hannah. 
bap.  1806.  Dec.  20.  Eliza,  bap.  1800.  Feb.  26.  Samuel,  bap.  1811,  Aug.  18. 
Frederick  Freeman,  bap.  1814,  Sept.  25. 
DANA,  Samuel,  was  son  of  Sauuiel.  of  ('anil)ridge.  who  d.  in  Billerica. 
He  m.  Mary  Durick,  of  Salem,  who  d.  1850,  A])ril  22.  aged  04;  lived  at  tlie 
Wild  place,  on  tlie  Lowell  road,  and  also  near  Xorth  Billerica;  d.  18()4. 
June  11.  aged  82  years.  6  months  and  '.)  
days.  Ch.  J/rov/,  1).  1811,  Aug.  22; 
d.  about  1870.  Hiram,  b.  1814,  March  11 ;  
lived  in  Boston;  no  <'h.  Hannah. 
b.  1815,  June  4;  in.  Joseph  I.  Salter.  Sarah  Ann.  h.  1817,  Dec.  16; 
m.  Ileniy  liobinson,  of  Concord,  X.  H. ;  
d.  1866.  Sanui^d.  b.  1824,  Aug.  26; 
d.  1850,  Jan.  IS.  Martha,  b.  1827.  Jan.  6;  ni.  Henry  Durant.  of  LoVell  ; 
no  ch. 
DANDLY.  1.  John,  m.  1793.  Sept.  29,  Kebecca  Shed.  prob.  dau.  of 
Joseph,  15;  perhaps  of  Samuel.  14.  Ch.  John.  b.  1794.  Jan.  25.  William, 
b.  1795,  Xov.  27.     James.  2. 
2.  James,  son  of  John,  1,  m.  1819.  ^larch  25.  Sarah  Patten,  dau.  of 
John.  15.  She  d.  1838,  Nov.  30;  he  d.  1848.  Feb.  11,  aged  50.  Ch.  J/ar// 
Mason  Pearson,  b.  1819,  Aug.  2;  ni.  1846,  Dec.  3,  Charles  W.  Newell,  of 
Roxbury.  James  He nnj.  b.  1822,  Sept.  6;  m.  1848,  June  25,  Edith  Patch, 
of  Tyngsboro'.  He  lived  in  Boston;  d.  1879,  Jan.  10.  Miriam  Maria. 
b.  1828.  Feb.  17;  m.  1876,  Nov.  15,  Aaron  Pasho.  John  Calvin,  b.  1834, 
April  3;  m.  Lucy  Patch. 
D.iNFORTH,  Joualhan,  youngest  son  of  Nicholas  and  Elizabeth 
Daniorth,  wash,  in  Frandingham,  in  High  Suffolk,  England,  1627-8,  Feb.  29. 
His  mother  d.  in  England.  1629  ;  his  father,  in  Cambridge,  1638,  April. 
His  brother,  Thomas,  of  Cambridge,  was  one  of  the  most  useful  and 
eminent  citizens  of  the  colony  ;  selectman,  1645-71  ;  town  clerk,  1645-68  ; 
assistant,  1659-78.  Deputy  Governor.  1679-92.  except  during  Andros' 
usurpation,  after  which,  only  the  prolonged  life  of  the  veneiable  Gov. 
Bradstreet  prevented  his  election  as  Governor.  He  was  President  of  the 
District  of  Maine.  1681-92;  member  of  the  Council,  l(9]-9;  Judge  of 
Superior  Court,  after  1692;  Treasurer  of  Hai-vard  College,  1650-69; 
Treasurer  of  Middlesex  County,  and  from  1648-86,  Recorder.  The 
acknowledged  leader  of  the  party  which  resisted  the  arbitrary  proceedings 
of  the  King,  and  effected  the  counter-revolution  in  Massachusetts.  He 
d.  1699,  Nov.  5,  aged  77.  His  brother,  Samuel,  grad.  H.  C,  1643;  was 
ordained  colleague  with  John  Eliot,  as  pastor  at  Roxbury;  d.  1674, 
Nov.  19,  leaving  an  eminent  reputation  for  scholarship  and  piety.  His 
wife  was  Mary,  dau.  of  John  W'ilson,  Boston's  first  pastor. 
Our  Jonathan  Danforth  was  of  worthy  stock,  and  in  view  of 
his  long  life  and  many  and  varied  services,  he  might  be  recognized  as  the 
father  of  the  town.  His  nuirriage  was  the  first  on  our  records,  though  it 
seems  to  have  taken  place  in  Boston,  as  it  was  also  recorded  there.  His 
skill  as  a  surveyor,  gave  him  employment  far  and  wide.  For  forty  years 
ho  prcjbably  surveyed  every  land  grant  in  Billerica,  and  nmst  have 
explored  every  nook  and  corner  of  the  ancient  town.  His  descriptions  fill 
some  200  pages,  in  his  own,  very  clear  and  handsome  hand-writing,  in  the 
 - 404 - 
 - 405 - 
 - 406 - 
DANFORTH.  35 
volume  of  Land  Grants;  and  in  locating  grants  and  making  surveys,  as 
settlement  went  on,  north  and  west,  he  was  more  frequently  employed  than 
any  other.  In  Haverhill.  Dracut,  Dunstable.  Groton,  Towusend  and  as  far 
as  Amherst  and  Litchfleld.  N.  H..  his  work  is  found.  Many  of  his  "plots  '' 
are  preserved  in  the  State  Archives.  He  was  town-clerk,  1(565-86. 
Selectman.  Representative,  and  Captain  of  the  Militia  company.  His 
energy  and  wisdom  made  his  counsel  of  value,  and  liis  piety  shone.  He 
was  tlie  life-long  and  trusted  friend  of  liis  pastor,  Mr.  Whitinf,  who 
survived  him  but  five  months.  Mr.  Farmer  states  that  he  left  t\vo  Ms. 
folios  containing  sermons  and  sketches  of  sermons  for  many  years,  together 
with  the  baptisms  and  admissions  to  the  church.  If  any  part  of  these 
valuable  folios  was  in  existence  in  Mr.  Farmer's  day,  as  he  implies,  it 
has  since  disappeared.  Wide  and  careful  searcli  has  detected  no  clue  to 
them,  or  to  the  "ancient  plan"  of  the  to\\ii.  in  Mr.  Fanner's  po.ssession, 
of  which  he  speaks.  (Xote  p.  1,  of  Hist.  Memoir).  This  plan  was  sent 
to  the  Mass.  Historic^al  Society,  but  lias'  unfortunately  disappeared  from 
its  archives.  Mr.  Farmer  has  preserved  lines  taken  from  a  poem,  on  ]Mr. 
Danforth's  death,  supposed  to  have  been  written  by  his  nephew.  Rev.  John 
Danforth.  of  Dorchester,  which  are  worthy  of  repetition  here. 
"He  rode  the  circuit,  chain'd  great  towns  and  farms, 
To  good  behavior  ;   and  by  well   marked  stations, 
He  ttxed  their  bounds  for  many  generations. 
His  art  ne'er  failed  him,  though  the  loadstone  failed, 
When  oft  by  mines  and  streams  it  was  assailed. 
All  this  is  charming,  but  there's  something  higher. 
Gave  him  the  lustre  which  .we  most  admire." 
An  ac(;ount  of  his  piety  followed.  The  house  which  Mr.  Danforth 
built  and  in  which  he  lived  and  died  is  disappearing  as  we  write, 
March.  1880,  to  give  place  to  a  new  one.  Mr.  Martin  Lane  is  its  owner. 
A  good  picture  of  it  is  herewith  presented.  The  wife  of  Mr.  Danforth 
was  Elizabeth  Poulter.  dau.  of  John  and  Mary.  b.  in  Raleigh.  Essex.  1633, 
Sept.  1.  Her  father  is  called  '-Goodman  Pouter,"  in  the  Boston  record, 
and  prob.  d.  in  England.  Her  mother  became  the  wife  of  Sergt.  John 
Parker.  This  theory  best  explains  the  facts,  which  are,  that  Danforth 
calls  Parker  his  "father-in-law,"  {Land  Grants,  p.  11.  No.  3.)  and  Parker 
calls  Danforth.  "son-in-law."  (see  parchmejit  deed,  forming  cover  of 
"Births.  Marriages  and  Deaths"  Record.)  and  that  after  Mr.  Parker's 
death,  in  1667.  his  widow  Mary  m.  Thomas  Chamberlain,  of  Chelmsford, 
in  1674.  Her  name  was  therefore  the  same  with  that  of  Mrs.  Danforth's 
mother,  and  her  death.  1692.  Feb.  8.  is  entered  by  Mr.  Danforth,  in  Billerica 
Records,  as  of  special  significenee  to  the  Recorder.  Mr.  Danforth  was  m. 
''before  Mr.  Increase  Nowell."  1654.  Nov.  22.  His  wife  d.  1689,  Oct.  7; 
he  m.  1690.  Nov.  17.  Mrs.  Esther  Champney,  dau.  of  Elder  Richard,  of 
Cambridge,  and  widow  of  Josiah  Convers.  of  Woburn.  who  d.  a  few 
months  after  her  husband.  1713,  April  5.  He  d.  1712.  Sept.  7.  Ch.  3Iani, 
b.  1655-6.  Jan.  29;  m.  1678.  June  4.  John  Parker,  of  Chelmsford. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1657.  May  27;  m.  1687,  March  7.  Simeon  Heyvvood.  of  Concord. 
Jonathan.  2,  b.  1658-9.  Feb.  18.  John.  b.  1660-1.  Jan.  23;  d.  Feb.  7.  John. 
b.  1661-2.  Feb.  22;  d.  June  4.  Lydia.  b.  1664.  June  1 ;  m.  Edward  AVright. 
of  Concord.  Samnd,  3,  b.  1665-6,  Feb.  5.  Anna.  b.  1667-8.  March  8;  m. 
Oliver  Whiting.  3.  Thomas,  b.  1670.  April  29;  d.  Julv  31.  XirhoMs, 
b.  1671,  July  1 ;  d.  1693-4,  March  8.  Sarah,  b.  1676,  Dec.  '23;  m.  William 
French.  7. 
2.  Jonathan,  son  of  Jonathan.  1,  b.  1658-9,  Feb.  18;  lived  east  of 
Long  street,  opp.  his  father's  place ;  m.  1682.  June  27.  Rebecca  Parker, 
dau.  of  Jacob,  of  Chelmsford.  Ensign  Danforth  d.  1710-11.  Jan.  17.  and 
his  widow  m.  Joseph  Foster.  2.  Ch.  Rebecca,  b.  1683.  June  30;  m.  1702, 
Dec.  31,  Thomas  Parker.  Thomas.  4,  b.  1685-6.  March  17.  Jonathan,  o, 
b.  1688-9.  March  22.  Elizabeth,  b.  1690,  Aug.  31 ;  m.  Christopher  Osgood.  1. 
Samuel.  6,  b.  1692.  Sept.  16.  Nicholas,  b.  1695.  Aug.  17;  d.  1748.  March  10. 
Jacob.  7,  b.  1697-8,  Feb.  6.    Sarah,  b.  1700,  Aug.  18.    John,  b.  1703,  June  3. 
 - 407 - 
36  DANFURTII. 
3.  Samuel,  son  of  .Toiiath;in,  1,  1).  16(i5-6,  Fel).  5;  in.  1694-").  Jan.  8, 
Hannah  Crosbv,  dau.  of  Simon.  1.  He  d.  1742.  April  IS),  and  she  in.  Enoch 
Kidder.  4.  Ch.  Elizaleth.  h.  1()!)5.  Nov.  8.  Hannah,  h.  1698.  Aug.  20. 
Snmiti'l.  8,  b.  1701.  May  1.5.  Bavhcl.  b.  1703.  Aug.  14;  m.  Thomas  Kidder.  6. 
Ui.dia.  h.  1706.  March  26.  AhiqaiJ.  b.  1709.  Aug.  19.  Joyiathan.  9,  b.  1712-18. 
.Ian.  11. 
4.  Thomas,  scm  of  Jonathan.  2,  b.  168.5-6.  March  17;  ni.  1784.  Sept.  19. 
Rel)ecca  Sinionds.  of  Bedford;  d.  1737.  Oct.  31.  and  she  ni.  2d.  .losiah 
Brown.  5.  Ch.  Thomas.  10,  and  Joseph,  b.  1735.  July  8.  Elijah.  11, 
b.  1737.  Aug.  8. 
5.  Jomithan,  son  of  Jonatlian.  2,  b.  1688-!>.  March  22;  ni.  1713. 
Noy.  18.  Elizabeth  Fassett.  \vidow  of  Peter.  2.  He  d.  1762.  March  23. 
and  his  widoAv.  1772,  April  8.  ("h.  Jonathan.  1).  1714.  Xoy.  10;  ni.  1743, 
May  24.  Anna  Blanchard.  and  d.  in  Ilollis.  1746-7.  March  3.  Elizabeth. 
h.  1717.  May  4;  ni.  AVilliam  Manning.  <S.     Sarah,  b.  1719-20.   March  6;  d. 
1762.  Nov.  17.  Bebecca,  b.  1722.  May  29  ;  
d.  after  1800  ;  not  ni.  Benjamin.  12, 
b.  1724,  Dec.  8.  Mary.  b.  1727."  April  20;  d.  1793.  March  16.  Anna. 
b.  1729-30.  Feb.  28;  ni.  Braviter  Gray.  1.  AbiqaiJ.  h.  1733.  Aug.  16; 
d.  1774,  May  27. 
(J.  Samuel,  son  of  Jonathan,  2,  b.  1()92.  Sept.  16;  ni.  1714.  Aug.  5, 
Dorothy  Shed.  dau.  of  Jolm,  3.  Administration  granted  on  his  estate, 
1742,  June  7.  Ch.  Dorothy,  b.  1715.  June  27 ;  m.  Walter  Pollard,  (seel). 
Behecca.  b.  1716-7,  March  15 ;  m.  1737.  March  21.  Ephraim  Davis,  of 
Bedford.  SanuteL  b.  1719.  March  29;  d.  May  5.  Joseph,  b.  1720,  June  .30; 
m.  Mary  Richardson,  dau.  of  Andrew.  4,  and  was  a  leading  v-itizen  of 
Dunstable;  d.  1795.  March  30.  Samuel.  13,  b.  1722,  June  24.  Thomas.  14, 
b.  1724,  May  11.  Benjamin,  b.  1726.  July  1.  Sarah,  b.  1728.  April  14;  m. 
David  Osgood,  5.     John,  b.  1729-30,  Feb.  14.     Joshua,  b.  1731-2,  Feb.  24; 
m.  Kesia    ,  and  had  Joshua,  b.  in  AVoburn,  1754,  Dec.  14.     T^ncy,  b.  1734. 
April  5;  m.  Joseph  Ross,  6.     Jonathan,  h.  1736,  June  14;  d.  1758.  Aug.  13. 
7.  Jacob,  <  
'apt.,  son  of  .Jonathan,  2,  b.  1697-8,  Feb.  6 ;  
m.  1719,  Oct.  6, 
Rebecca  Patten,  dau.  of  AVilliam.  5.  He  d.  17.54,  Jan.  2,  and  his  widow, 
1773,  Jan.  27.  Ch.  William.  15,  b.  1720,  Aug.  25.  Jacob.  16,  b.  1723, 
Aug.  13.  Bebecca,  b.  1725,  Nov.  8;  ni.  Jonatlian  AA^hiting,  8.  David,  17, 
h.  1727.  Dec.  1.     Timothy,  18,  b.  1729.  Nov.  11.     Mary,  b.  1733.  July  9;  m. 
1763,  July  12.  Ebenezer  Jaquith,  of  AVilmington.  Hannah,  b.  1736-7,  Jan.  2 ; 
m.  Solomon  Pollard.  8.  Mehitable.  b.  1739,  July  9;  d.  July  13.  Pattc, 
b.  1742,  July  18 ;  
d.  1750,  April  3. 
8.  Samuel,  son  of  Samuel.  3,  b.  1701,  May  15;  m.  Elizabeth  Hosley, 
dau.  of  James,  1.  He  d.  1750,  June  28,  and  she  d.  1756,  July  3. 
Ch.  James,  19,  b.  1729-30,  Jan.  10;  Isaac,  b.  1731-2.  Jan.  9;  d.  1756, 
May  10.  Samuel  and  Nicholas.  20,  b.  1734,  Dec.  8.  Elizabeth,  b.  1730, 
May  10;  m.  her  cousin,  AA'illiam,  21.  Jonathan,  b.  1742,  Feb.  26; 
lived  in  Hardwick.  Mass.,  where  he  d.  1833,  Sept.  15.  He  m.  1770,  April  19, 
Susanna  AA'hite,  dau.  of  Rev.  David,  and  1780,  Oct.  1.  Anna  Ruggles, 
dau.  of  Joseph.  l)rother  of  "•  
Brigadier  "'    Timothy.  They  had  ch.  Samuel, 
b.  1771,  May  7;  d.  1824.  Dec.  17,  Ithaca.  N.  Y. ;  lived  also  in  Rupert 
and  Pawlet,  Vt.  Of  several  ch.,  Charles  grad.  AV.  C,  1826;  was  a 
clergyman.  Jonathan,  b.  1773,  Feb.  25;  d.  1797,  April  3.  David  AAliite, 
b.  n74,  Nov.  10;  d.  Dec.  16.  Pamela,  b.  1777,  Nov.  8;  d.  1802,  Dec.  16. 
Susanna  AA^..  b.  1781,  Dec.  28;  m.  Moses  Gray,  of  Prescott.  Joseph 
Ruggles,  b.  1784.  March  20;  d.  1803.  April  23.  Hannah,  b.  1786.  June  8; 
d.  1811,  June  13.  Lyman,  b.  1788,  Oct.  22.  Ann  R.,  b.  1791,  March  2; 
d.  1873,  Nov.  29.      Cyrus,  b.  1793,  Nov.  29.     James,  b.  about  1796. 
9.  Jonathan,  son  of  Samuel,  3,  b.  1712-13,  Jan.  11;  m.  Sarah 
Manning,  dau.  of  AVilliam.  4.  Hed.  1738,  between  Aug.  10  and  Oct.  9,  and 
she  d.  1745.  Dec.  11.     Ch.  William.  21,  1).  1737,  Nov.  7. 
10.  Thomas,  son  of  Thomas,  4,  b.  1735,  July  8;  m.  1758,  Aug.  5, 
Abigail  Fox,  i^rob.  widow  of  Abel.  He  d.  1771.  Ch.  Bebecca.  b.  1759, 
Apnl  25.  Hannah,  b.  1761,  March  26.  Joseph,  22,  b.  1763,  May  6.  Sibbel, 
b.  1767,  July  9.     Thomas,  bap.  1772,  Jan.  5. 
 - 408 - 
DANFORTH^  37 
11.  Elijah,  son  of  Thoums.  4,  b.  1737,  Aug-.  8;  m.  1768.  Nov.  24, 
Elizabeth  Osoood,  pvob.  dau.  of  David,  5.  He  d.  1792  or  "93.  Ch.  Bcttij, 
b.  1769.  Dee."  6.  Elijah,  b.  1772,  Feb.  11  ; d.  Xov.  13.  dloUtj.  b.  1773, 
Oct.  14.  EHjnh.  b.  1776.  Oct.  23.  Timothy,  b.  1780.  Ma3'  16.  Francis, 
b.  1782.  Oct.'3. 
12.  Beujamin,  son  of  Jonatlian.  5,  b.  1724.  Dec.  8;  m.  1750.  April  1/, 
Mary  Frost,  dau.  of  BeDJamin.  9.  Ch.  Benjamin.  23,  b.  1751.  'Slay  23. 
Mar]/,  b.  1752.  Sept.  21  ;  m.  Timothy  Levistone,  7.  Jonathan,  b.  1754.  July  20 ; 
ui.  i786.  Jan.  19.  Sarali  (handler,  dau.  of  Thomas.  2;  lived  in  Danvers 
and  Hillsboro.  N.  H.  Samnrl.  24,  and  Elizabeth,  h.  1756.  Aug.  24.  Abel, 
b.  1758,  March  13;  d.  in  the  Army,  at  Crown  Point.  1776.  July  14.  Anna, 
b.  1759.  Sept.  7;  m.  Thomas  Levistone,  (see  4).  Peter,  b.  1761.  May  25. 
Aaron,  b.  1763.  March  4;  d.  1765,  Sept.  20.  Abigail,  b.  and  d.  1766,  May  22. 
Abial.  b.  1767,  Mav  16;  d.  1792.  April  5.  Aaron,  b.  1768.  Oct.  6;  d.  1775, 
Sept.  3. 
13.  Samuel,  son  of  Samuel.  6,  b.  1722,  June  24;  m.  1747-8,  Feb.  11, 
Mary  Ross.  dau.  of  Seth,  5.  Ch.  Mary.  b.  1749,  June  15.  Samuel.  25, 
b.  1752.  Sept.  28.  Snrah.  bap.  1755,  Jan.  5.  Sarah,  b.  1757,  April  30. 
Rebecca,  b.  17.59.  Dec.  3.  Seth.  b.  1762.  June  3;  m.  1789,  April  4.  Judith 
Dunkin.  Jnsiah.  b.  1765.  July  4;  (The  Baptismal  Eecord  says  Isaac). 
Joseph,  b.  1767.  June  3.     Zachick.  b.  1770.  Auo-.  26. 
14.  Thomas,  son  of  Sanniel.  6,  b.  1724.  May  11  ;  m.  1744,  Oct.  16, 
Sarah  Butterfield,  of  Chelmsford.  Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1744-5,  Feb.  20.  Asa. 
b.  1746.  Julv  25.     John.  2G,  bap.  1748.  Feb.  28. 
15.  William,  son  of  Jacob.  7,  b.  1720.  Aug.  25;  m.  1742.  Feb.  17, 
Abigail  AA'alker.  dau.  of  Benjamin.  3.  He  d.  1743-4.  March  5;  she  m. 
Peter  Hill.  17.  Ch.  Abiyail.'h.  1743.  June  12;  m.  1795,  Jan.  20,  Jonas 
Gleason,  of  Bedford. 
16.  Jacob,  son  of  Jacob.  7,  b.  1723.  Aug.  13;  m.  1745,  Dec.  26, 
Martha  Crosby,  dau.  of  William,  9.  He  d.  1748.  Nov.  9,  and  his  widow  m. 
1754,  Jan.  23,  Mathew  Mead,  of  Lexington.  Ch.  Jacob,  b.  1746,  Aug.  17. 
Jesse,  b.  1748,  May  26:  m.  1768.  Jan.  13.  Anna  Conella,  of  Woburn;  lived 
in  HoUis. 
17.  David,  son  of  Jat-ob.  7,  b.  1727.  Dec.  1 ;  m.  1750.  May  17,  Joanna 
Shed,  dau.  of  Benjamin.  8.  Ch.  Patte,  b.  1751,  May  26.  David,  b.  1752, 
Nov.  26.  Joanna',  h.  1754,  Mareh  31.  Solomon,  b.  1756.  Jan.  12.  William, 
b.  1757,  July  31;  m.  Lucy  Pollard,  dau.  of  Edward,  5.  Settled  in 
Litchfield,  x!  H.  ;  
d.  1804.  His  son.  Simeon,  lived  in  Merrimac.  X.  H..  the 
father  of  Daniel  Warner  Danforth.  of  North  Woburn.  William  Simeon, 
his  son.  is  in  the  Faneuil  Hall  Bank.  Boston.  Asa.  27,  b.  17.59.  Dec.  15. 
i?fflc/ie;.  b.  1761.  Dec.  15;  m.  John  Shed,  21.  Bebecca.  b.  1764,  July  20. 
Jacob,  b.  1766.  Feb.  27.  John,  b.  1768.  Oct.  27;  settled  in  Dorchester,  N.  H. 
Hannah,  b.  1770.  Nov.  10. 
18.  Timothy,  son  of  Jacob.  7,  b.  1729.  Nov.  11;  m.  1755.  June  5, 
Sarah  Patten,  dau.  of  Thomas.  11.  A  phvsician;  he  d.  1792.  June  21. 
Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1756.  Feb.  20;  m.  1778. Sept.  13.  Nathan  Buss.  Orpha.  b.  1758, 
June  7;  m.  1785.  May  24.  John  AVhiting.  of  Lancaster.  Julia,  b.  1764, 
April  26;  m.  Asa  Spaulding.  {see  3). 
19.  James,   son   of  Samuel,   8,   b.  1729-30.  Jan.  10;  ni.  Lydia    . 
He  d.  1758.  Nov.  22;  slie  m.  Ebenezer  Richardson,  11.  Ch.  Lydia.  b.  1753, 
Dec.  5;  m.  1778.  April  1.  Ziba  Lane.  Josiah.  b.  1755.  June  8.  Hannah. 
b.  1757.  Feb.  20.  Betty,  h.  1759,  April  20.  (The  Baptismal  Record  says 
Sarah,  bap.  1759.  April  15). 
20.  Nicholas,  son  of  Samuel,  8,  b.  1734.  Dec.  8 ;  m.  1758,  March  30. 
Elizabeth  Jaquith,  dau.  of  Abraham,  1.  His  name  disappears  from  tax-list, 
1763.  She  d.  1815.  Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1759.  Mav  11.  James,  b.  1760.  Dec.  28. 
Elisabeth,  bap.  1763,  April  10. 
21.  William,  son  of  Jonathan.  9,  b.  1737,  Nov.  7;  m.  1760.  Jan.  3, 
Elizabeth,  his  cousin,  dau.  of  Sanuiel.  8.  He  d.  in  Hartland.  Vt.,  about  1814, 
and  his  widow  in  Pomfret,  Vt.,  1817.  March  28.  Ch.  William,  b.  1761, 
Julj^  31 ;  
lived  iti  Hartland,  Vt.,  where  11  of  his  12  ch.  were  born;  then 
 - 409 - 
38  DANFORTH  —  DANIEL. 
removed  to  Berkshire,  Vt.,  and  there  died.  Of  his  children,  William  and 
Jonathan  were  eleroymen.  Isnac^  b.  176;i,  Sept.  29.  He  was  a  physician 
in  Barnard.  Vt..  wliere  he  d.  1851.  May  28.  His  ch.  were  (a)  Perses  Baker, 
who  m.  Kev.  Joel  Davis,  minister  in  Barnard.  (/>)  Betsey  Maria,  (c)  Isaac 
Emery,  M.  D.  (d)  Joseph  Baker,  member  of  Legislature  and  Judge  of 
Pi'obate.  (c)  Solon,  a  leading  citi/en  of  Barnard,  menilier  of  Senate,  Vt. 
(/)  William  Cullen.  M.  D.  {(/}  All)ert  Harlow,  an  active  citizen,  and  often 
in  public  office  in  Barnard  and  Claremont.  N.  H.  ;  
now  resident  in  Chicago. 
(h)  Sanuiel  Parkman.  an  eminent  physician  of  his  native  town,  and 
Koyalton;  d.  IH.").");  the  father  of  Kev.  'William  B.  Danforth,  who  d.  1876. 
Elizabeth,  b.  17(J.">,  June  19.  Jonathan,  bap.  1708,  March  4.  Jo)iathan, 
b.  1769,  Nov.  23;  lived  in  Pomfret,  Vt.  ;  
d.  about  1859.  Sumud,,  b.  1772, 
Aug.  30;  a  physician  in  Calais.  Vt.,  where  he  d.  1812,  April  12.  Of  his  7  ch., 
four  are  living  in  Ohio:  Bernct.  b.  1774.  Oct.  2.  Jamcs^  b.  1776,  Nov.  8. 
Sally,  b.  1777.  Dec.  9.   Hoslnj,  b.  1779,  Dec.  i.   The  last  four  did  not  marry. 
22.  Joseph,  son  of  Thomas.  10,  b.  1763.  May  6;  m.  1789.  Aug.  27, 
Dorcas  Wvman.  Woburn.  He  d.  1805,  Oct.  21.  and  his  widow  m.  Alexander 
Winning.'  Ch.  Bornts,  b.  1790.  Feb.  26;  m.  Joseph  Hill,  28.  Sally, 
b.  1791,  Nov.  8 ;  m.  William  Kichardson.  (sf^c  1{)).  Xanry,  b.  1795,  June  15 ; 
m.  Zaccheus  Shed.  25.  Hannah,  b.  1797.  Oct.  9.  Juspph,  b.  1799.  June  14, 
and  d.  1823.  Aug.  10.  Jasiah,  b.  1801.  June  17.  and  d.  1822.  Oct.  3.  Oliver, 
b.  1803,  March  14;  d.  1849.  Oct.  25.     Julia,  b.  1805.  July  16. 
23.  Benjamin,  son  of  Benjamin,  12,  b.  1751.  May  23;  ni.  1771, 
July  10.  Esther  Sanders,  dau.  of  James.  3.  Ch.  Esither,  b.  1771.  Sept.  17. 
He  lived  after,  in  Tewksbury,  where  he  had  Abel.  Aaron,  28.  Benajah 
and  Mirajah. 
24.  Samuel,  son  of  Benjamin,  12,  b.  1756,  Aug.  24 ;  m.  1780,  March  30, 
Anna  Trull,  of  Tewksbury.  Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1780,  Oct.  1.  Bobcrt.  b.  1782, 
May  7. 
25.  Samuel,  son  of  Samuel,  13,  b.  1752,  Sept.  28;  m.  1774,  April  28, 
Sarah  Toothaker,  dau.  of  Dr.  Roger.  3.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1775,  June  18. 
Polly,  b.  1780.  March  1. 
26.  John,  son  of  Thomas.  14,  m.  1779,  May  6,  Mercy  Wait.  Ch.  3Iercy 
b.  1779,  Nov.  11. 
27.  Asa,  son  of  David,  17,  b.  1759.  Dec.  15;  m.  1781,  March  14, 
Abigail  Pollard,  dau.  of  Edward,  5.  He  removed  to  Derry,  X.  H. 
Ch.  Asa,  b.  1781.  Aug.  24.  Francis,  b.  1783.  June  15;  d.  1806,  Oct.  31. 
Simeon,   William,  Nubby  and  Sally.     These  sisters  m.  brothers  named  Keed. 
28.  Aaron,  son  of  Benjamin,  23,  m.  1805,  Feb.  5,  Sarah  Crosby, 
dau.  of  Timothy,  29,  who  d.  1858,  Jan.  2.  He  lived  in  the  ancient,  perhaps 
garrison,  house,  now  o^v^led  by  James  Fletcher.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1805, 
June  27;  m.  Varnum  Waugh.  of  Roxburv.  Aaron,  b.  1807,  Oct.  17; 
lived  in  Portland;  d.  1878,  Marcli  16.  Sylrestn:  b.  1809.  Sept.  29;  d.  1833, 
June  21.  Charles,  b.  1811.  Dec.  27;  in.  Matilda  Shed,  of  Bedford;  lives  in 
Clair  Lake.  Wisconsin.  Mary  Ann,  b.  1814,  Aug.  10;  m.  1837.  Nov.  30, 
David  Webber,  Halifax,  N.  S.  Susan  Crosby,  b.  1816,  Nov.  6;  m.  Nathaniel 
Hastings,  of  Koxbury.  AbirjailJaquith,  b.  1819,  Feb.  2;  m.  Amos  Marston. 
Hannah  Maria,  b.  1822,  Dec.  25;  d.  1839.  March  18.  Caroline  Lovice. 
b.  1825,  June  22 ;  
d.  1844,  March  18.  Joseph  Bernard,  b.  1829,  April  15; 
d.  Dec.  8.  Joseph  ForH?n»,  b.  1831,  May  2;  m.  Jane  Putney.  He  d.  1868, 
Dec.  6.   Ch.  Joseph,  Francis.  James  Madison,  Maria  Josephine.  Julia  Abby. 
DANIEL,  Richard,  "of  Edmonton.  England.  Gent.,  now  in  England," 
purchased,  1669,  Nov.  12,  for  £220,  the  farm  of  1000  acres  belonging  to  the 
church  in  Cambridge,  then  leased,  and  afterwards  sold  to  Thomas  Bicliardson 
and  Joseph  Walker.  Jan.  19,  for  £100,  he  also  bought  the  500  acre  farm, 
of  Samuel  Champney.  The  Woburn  road  ran  between  these  two  farms,  on 
both  sides  of  Shawshin  river,  and  as  Champney  then  left  town,  Mr.  Daniel, 
doubtless,  lived  on  his  place,  on  the  south-west  side  of  the  road,  not  far 
from  the  river.  He  is  mentioned  by  Gookin,  in  his  Wamesit  Narrative,  as 
elsewhere  quoted,  and  was  allowed  to  fortify  his  own  house,  in  1675.    In 
 - 410 - 
•   DANIEL  —  DAVIS.  39 
1670,  Dec.  5,  at  his  request,  a  Committee  was  appointed  to  "settle  the 
Country  road,  througli  Shawshin  f amies."  Also  the  town  "  grant  Mr.  Daniel 
liberty  to  make  a  pue  in  the  east  end  of  y-'  meeting  house."  and  two  weeks 
later  "it  is  agreed  that  Mr.  Daniel,  gent.,  shal  be  set  downe  for  the 
minister's  rate,  for  this  year,  at  five  pound,  fourteen  shillings,  for  both 
farmes."  His  wife  was  of  the  nDbility,  Mary,  eldest  daughter  of  Sir  John 
Pye.  of  Derbyshire.  He  returned  to  England,  prob.  inlGSl.),  and  was  living 
in  London,  1700,  Feb.  28,  at  which  date  he  sold  to  Richartlsan  and  AV'alker, 
the  church  farm,  and  the  ("hauipney  farm  to  Thomas  Ross  and  Hugh  Ditson. 
Mr.  Alexander  Daniel,  by  -order'  of  the  town,  1680,  Sept.  20,  was  "to  set 
in  the  front  seat  in  y"^ front  gallery."  He  was  prob.  a  relative,  possibly  a 
son,  of  Richard. 
DAVIDSDX.  1.  Nathaniel,  united  with  the  church,  on  a  letter  from 
••  London  Derry."  His  name  is  on  the  tax-list,  1733.  His  relation  to  William 
and  Robert,  who  are  on  tax-list.  173J-1.  is  not  known.  A  Jane  Davidson 
m.  1733.  May  3,  Thomas  Campble;  Elizabeth  m.  John  Gorrell,  1733-4, 
Jan.  21.  Nathaniel  was  a  merchant,  and  lived  on  Woburn  street,  not  far 
from  the  connnon.  Itis  name  disappears  in  1772.  His  wife  was  Mary. 
Ch.  NmluuiicU  b.  1742,  Sept.  28;  d.  1744,  Dec.  IG.  WilWim,  2,  b.  1745-6, 
Jan.  5.  3Iun/,  b.  1748,  Oct.  26;  d.  1749-.50,  March  1.  Mithanid,  b.  1754, 
Sept.  15. 
2.  William,  son  of  Nathaniel,  disappears  from  tax-list.  1772.  Ch.  a 
dauyhtrr.  bap.  1760.  Di>c.  17.     William,  bap.  1771,  Dec.  15. 
DA  VIES,  Timothy,  had  ch.  Jushua,  >Sile,  "for  Silence,"  and  Hannah 
bap.  1809.  Oct.  8. 
DAVIS.  1.  Jo>oph,  from  Reading,  m.  1691.  June  18,  Rebecca  Patten, 
dau.  of  Thomas.  1.  He  l)ought,  1693.  May  10.  the  township  lot,  which  had 
been  John  Poulters,  the  I.  G.  Kimball  place,  on  the  north  side  of  Andover 
street.  In  1699,  he  bought  the  Fox  farm  of  Mr.  Daniel's  agent.  Thomas 
C^ooper,  and  there,  north  of  Fox  hill,  made  his  home,  long  known  as  the 
Davis  place.  He  was  deacon  of  the  church.  Died  1747,  Sept.  30,  aged  80 ; 
his  widow.  1750-1.  Feb.  13.  Ch.  Bebecca.  b.  1692,  Sept.  11;  m.  1713, 
May  13,  Hezekiah  Ballard,  of  Andover.  Hannah,  b.  1694,  Dec.  1.  Jos/ph, 
b.  1697,  Nov,  3.  Elizabeth,  b.  1699.  Nov.  6;  m.  Jacob  French,  12. 
Benjamin,  b.  1703.  May  1.  3Iar)/,  b.  1706,  May  31 ;  m.  Jonathan  French,  8. 
iSarah,  b.  1709.  May  1;  m.  Josiah  Bacon,  7.  Susanna,  b.  1710,  Dec.  5; 
m.  Josiah  Baldwin,  8.  Jo>ihita,  2,  b.  1714,  Oct.  20.  EtUher,  b.  1716, 
March  24;  m.  1734.  Sept.  18,  Samuel  Parker,  of  Andover.  Thomas, 
b.  1717,  July  8;  dis.  17.55.  to  the  church  in  Mansfield.  Conn. 
2.  Josliua,  son  of  Joseph,  1,  b.  1714,  Oct.  20;  m.  1739,  Oct.  24, 
Hannah  Jaquith,  of  Wilmington.  He  d.  also  a  deacon.  1777,  Jan.  18;  his 
widow.  1800,  Aug.  8.  Ch.  Joshua,  b.  1740,  July  15;  cl.  Aug.  1.  Hannah, 
b.  1741,  Sejit.  7;  m.  John  Farmer,  11.  J,,shua,  3,  b.  1743.  Oct.  25.  Joseph, 
b.  1745-6,  Feb.  1 ;  
d.  1750,  March  30.  Bebecca,  b.  1748.  Aug.  21 ;  
d.  1749-50, 
March  21.  Joseph,  b.  1751,  March  25;  d.  1777.  Jan.  14.  Bi-njamin,  4, 
b.  1753,  June  26.     Tiniothi/,  5,  b.  1756,  April  28.    Jonathan,  b.  1758,  Feb.  13. 
Williani,  G,  b.  1761,  March  28. 
3.  Jusliua,  son  of  Joshua,  2,  b.  1743,  Oct.  25;  m.  1769,  May  25,  Betty 
Blood.  He  d.  prob.  in  1780.  as  his  name  disappears  from  tax-list  ;  
his 
widow  m.  Benjamin  Baldwin.  12.  Ch.  Bette,  b.  1779,  Nov.  12;  prob.  m. 
1801.  Feb.  2,  William  Stearns,  of  Bedford. 
4.  Beujamiu,  son  of  Joshua.  2,  b.  1753.  June  26;  m.  1778,  April  2, 
Mary  Mann,  of  Chelmsford  ;  
d.  1836,  Feb.  8.  Ch.  Polhi,  b.  1778,  Aug.  8 ;  m. 
1799,  Sept.  29,  Jonathan  Bond,  of  Augusta.  Me.  ;  
d.  1841,  Sept.  1.  Hannah, 
b.  1780,  Mav  9;  m.  Jeremiah  Patt'en,  16.  Bebecca.  h.  17S\,  Oat.  -IS;  m. 
1804,  Sept.  23,  Elias  Bond,  of  Hallowell,  Me.  ;  d.  1827.  April  28.  Sill;/,  b. 
1783,  June  27;  m.  Hon.  William  Crosby,  (see  21).  Joseph,  b.  1785,  Feb.  23; 
was  a  sea  captain;  d.  183 J,  Dec.  24.  A  son,  \Villiaui  J.,  lives  in  Ciiicago. 
Abiyail,  h.  1787,  Oct.  4;  m.  1807,  Oct.  2J,  Bohan  P.  Field,  a  lawyer  of 
Belfast,  Me.  ;  
d.   1863,   Nov.   3.     Rev.  George  W.  Field,  D.  D.,  pastor  of 
 - 411 - 
40  DAVIS  —  DITSON. 
Siileni  street  church,  Boston,  and  in  Bangor,  since  1864.  is  a  son.  Benjamin, 
b.  1789,  Nov  1 ;  niercliant  and  lianker  in  Augusta.  Me.  ;  
d.  1875.  jNJarcli  18. 
Two  sons.  George  W.  and  Benjamin  (i..  are  dead.  C'athei'ine,  h.  1791, 
Oct.  13;  111.  Thomas  J.  Lee,  a  bank  casliier,  Calais,  Me.;  d.  1870,  July  2. 
Anna,  b.  1794,  Mareli  10;  m.  1813.  June  14.  John  S.  Kimball,  merchant  of 
Belfast.  Me.  ;  
d.  1827,  May.  Elizabeth,  b.  179G.  Dec.  5;  m.  1827.  May  7, 
Hon.  Jacob  Sleeper,  of  Boston.  She  d.  1833,  July  20;  he  m.  1834, 
April  7,  her  sister.  Maria.  Mr.  Sleeper  is  well  and  widelj"  known  as  a 
business  man  of  Boston.  He  lias  been  an  alderman  of  the  city,  member 
of  the  legislature,  and  was  three  years  in  the  (TOvernor's  council,  and  has 
been  often  employed  in  the  management  of  educational  and  philanthropic 
institutions.  He  lias  had  five  ch.  :  
Mary  Elizabetli,  who  m.  (4eo.  W.  Davis, 
her  cousin,  and  lives  a  widow  witli  her  father.  Her  son,  George  H.  Davis, 
having  just  graduated  at  Harvard  College.  Abigail  Patten,  wlio  m. 
Joseph  W.  Harper,  of  Harper  &  Brothers,  New  York.  Julia  Maria,  who 
m.  Edward  F.  Dutton,  of  E.  P.  Dutton  &  Co.,  publishers.  New  York. 
Caroline  M..  who  also  ui.  Mr.  Harper,  and  Jacob  H.,  who  lives  in  Boston. 
Franklin,  b.  1799.  Jan.  2;  d.  1801.  Feb.  27.  Maria,  b.  1800,  Dec.  24,  in. 
{as  above,)  Mr.  Sleeper;  d.  1878.  S<>pt.  24.  Franklin,  b.  1804,  Jan.  30;  in. 
Maria  Seaman,  of  New  York;  d.  aliout  1850. 
5.  Timotliy,  son  of  Joshua,  2,  b.  175G,  April  28;  m.  1779,  May  11, 
Martha  Shed.  dau.  of  John.  16.  Lived  near  Tewksbury  line,  east  of  North 
Billerica;  d.  1832,  Dec.  13;  she  d.  1837,  April  21.  Ch.  Pff«e,  b.  1779, 
Sept.  6;  m.  1799.  April  3,  Abraham  Taylor.  i/?R?/,  b.  1781,  May  6;  m. 
1808,  May  8,  JosejJi  Bond,  of  AVilmington.  Lucretia,  b.  1783,  Feb.  11. 
Timothy,  7,  b.  1785.  Feb.  4.  Thomas,  \i.  178G,  Dec.  2.  Joshua,  b.  1788. 
Cile,  b.  1792,  July  20;  m.  Levi  Foster.  15.  Hannah,  h.  1795,  Aug.  13; 
in.  1816,  May  16,  Ebenezer  Symms,  of  Wilmington. 
6.  William,  son  of  Joshua.  2,  b.  1761,  March  28;  m.  Eebecca    . 
Ch.  William,  b.  1790,  Sept.  9.     Lydia  Merriam,  b.  1793.  April  23. 
7.  Timotliy,  son  of  Timothy,  5,  b.  1785,  Feb.  4;  lived  at  the  corner; 
m.  1819,  Jan.  26,  Susan  C.  Lawrence,  of  Tyngsboro'  ;  
Oilman,  b.  1821,  June  25;  lives  in  Saccarappa,  Me.d.   1840.  Ch.  George 
Edwin  Lawrence, 
b.  1831,  Feb.  17;  lives  in  Palmer. 
8.  Levi  111.  1796,  June  13,  Kebecca  Mace. 
9.  John  m.  Sarah.  Ch.  Albert  Franklin,  b.  1840,  May  11.  Lester 
Thomas,  b.  1842.  Nov.  11. 
DEAN.     1.    William,  m.  1670,  Sept.  1.  Martha  Bateman. 
2.  Ebenezer,  brother  or  son  of  John,  of  Woburn,  who  m.  Mary 
Fanner,  (see  1).  He  was  in  town  in  1730,  and  m.  1732,  Dec.  7,  Mary 
Eogers,  widow  of  Nathaniel,  9.  His  name  disappears.  1735,  perhaps 
with  the  Tewksbury  list.  Ch.  Ebenezer,  b.  1733,  Oct.  7.  Perhaps 
Sarah,   who  m.   John  Pollard,  G. 
3.  John,  perhaps  son  of  Ebenezer,  is  on  tax-list,  1742-80.  His  wife, 
Sarah,  d.  1744-5,  March  1.  Ch.  Mollie,  b.  1744,  May  14.  Boreas  d.  1750, 
June  5. 
4.  Michael,  of  Wilmington,  m.  1802,  Dec.  30,  Esther  Patio. 
DEXTER.     1.  •  
Nathan  and  wife  Phebe.     Ch.  Esther,  b.  1775,  Nov.  4. 
2.     Jonathan  M.  in.  1808,  June  19,  Betsey  Balch.     Ch.  George,  b.  1809, 
June  16.     3Iarv  Elizabeth,  b.  1811,  Aug.  19. 
DICKINSON,  Frederic,  was  b.  in  Amherst,  1819,  Aug.  18;  grad.  A.  C, 
1837;  in.  1846.  Feb.  17,  Mary  L.  Richardson,  dau.  of  Francis,  28.  He  lives 
south  of  the  common,  on  Woburn  street.  Ch.  Frederick,  b.  1846,  Aug.  26; 
d.  1850.  Sept.  18.  Frederick  Howe,  b.  1850,  Dec.  31 ;  m.  1873,  Jan.  1, 
Nancy  A.  Chapman.  Edvmrd  Fowler,  b.  1855,  Feb.  20.  William  Howard, 
b.  1857.  Dec.  4.     Bertram,  b.  1868,  March  4. 
DICKSON,  Thomas.     Ch.  Samuel,  bap.  1750.  July  8. 
DITSON.  1.  Hugh,  took  the  oath  of  fidelity.  1685,  May  28.  He  was, 
doubtless,  son  of  ''Sarah  Didson,  of  Eedding,  widow,"  who  in.  1686, 
May    20,    Thomas    Patten,    1,    and    1690,    Thomas    Richardson,  1.     He 
 - 412 - 
DITSON  —  DOWSE.  41 
purchased  of  Eichard  Daniel.  1700.  Feb.  28.  the  eastern  half  of  the  500 
acre  Chauipney  farm,  which  was  bounded  east  by  Woburn,  and  north-east 
by  the  Woburn  road.  His  wife's  brother.  Tlionias  Eoss.  bought  at  the 
same  time,  tlie  western  half  of  the  farm,  each  payino;  6G  pounds.  10  shillings. 
The  river  meadow  was  divided  between  tliem.  He  ni.  1094,  Aug.  31,  Sarah 
Eoss.  dau.  of  Tliomas.  1.  Ch.  Huglu  b.  1694,  Aug.  31.  Sarah,  b.  1696, 
Dec.  3;  m.  Thonuis  Eichardson.  8.  7'homas.  2,  b.  1699,  Julj^  3.  Joannah, 
b.  1701.  Aug.  20;  m.  Benjamin  Walkei'.  3.  John,  b.  1704.  March  24. 
Hugh.  b.  170().  Oct.  14.  Jcniies.  b.  1710,  Aug.  27.  Name  on  tax-Ust,  till  1740. 
Seth.  S,  b.  1713-4.  March  12. 
2.  Tliomas,  son  of  Thomas,  1,  b.  1699.  July  3;  m.  1732,  June  11. 
Elizalieth  Lawrence,  of  Woburn.  He  d.  in  Woburn,  1778.  June  14;  she  d. 
1790,  Oct.  13,  aged  69.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  h.  1733,  Xov.  4;  m.  1749,  April  11, 
Thomas  Bacon,  of  Bedford.  Man/,  b.  1735.  Dec.  6 ;  
m.  Thomas  Goodwin,  1. 
T/iomffs,  b.  1738.  June  27 ;  
d.  Thomas,  4,  and  Sarah,  b.  1741.  April  30. 
^S'ara/i  d.  1743.  June  26.  Sarah,  b.  1743,  Oct.  18;  m.  Jacob  French,  24. 
Samuel,  5,  b.  1750.  July  4. 
Ch.  3.  Seth,  sou  of 'Thomas.  1,  b.  1713-4,  March  12;  m.  Elizabeth    . 
John,  b.  1736,  April  22.  Ilartha,  b.  1742,  Aug.  5.  Seth,  b.  1746, 
Dec.  20. 
4.  Thomas,  son  of  Thomas.  2,  b.  1741.  April  30;  m.  1761.  June  18, 
Elizabeth  Blanchard.  dau.  of  John.  2.  The  name  disappears  from  tax-list, 
1784.  Of  his  notable  experience  at  the  hands  of  the  British,  in  Boston, 
account  is  elsewhere  given.  Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1762,  Jan.  31 ;  
lost  at  sea,  1782, 
Feb.  20.  Elizabeth,  b.  1766.  Oct.  3.  Sarah,  b.  1767.  May  30;  m.  Isaac 
Wilson,  8.  John,  b.  1770.  Sept.  20.  Jesse,  b.  1772.  .July  4.  \mice,  b.  1779, 
Jan.  21.  William,  b.  1780,  Nov.  30.  Josiah,  b.  1782,  March  26.  Thomas, 
b.  1783.  May  22. 
5.  Samuel,  son  of  Thomas.  2,  b.  1750.  July  4;  m.  1770,  Sept.  18, 
Sarah  Grimes,  of  Lexington.  Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1771,  Feb.  3.  William, 
b.  1776.  June  6. 
DIX,  Joel,  1,  and  John,  2,  brothers,  came  fi-om  Chelmsford,  1820. 
They  had  sisters:  Lucy,  who  m.  1823,  Oct.  26;  Jonathan  Wilson,  and 
Nancy,  who  m.  John  Mixer. 
l',  Joel  m.  Triscilla  Parker.  He  d.  1861.  Dec.  29,  and  she  d.  12  days 
before,  aged  71.  Ch.  Clarissa,  b.  1811,  Nov.  17;  m.  1836.  March  10, 
AYarren  Eichardson,  of  Westford.  Sibbel.  b.  1813.  Nov.  3 ;  m.  1835, 
Oct.  22.  George  W.  Eand.  3Iary,  b.  1815,  June  11.  Joel,  b.  1817, 
March  26.  Almira,  b.  1819.  Jan.  25.  Miza  Jane,  b.  1821,  Dec.  11 ;  
m.  1839, 
Nov.  29,  Warren  M.  Batcheller.  Fannij,  b.  1823.  Oct.  2;  d.  1848,  Julv  31. 
Sarah,  b.  1825,  Aug.  19.  Albert  H.,  b.  1829,  June  12.  Lucy  Ann,  b.  1831, 
April  15. 
2.  John  had  ch.  John  Adams,  who  lives  in  Chelmsford,  near  Lowell. 
Joel  H..  3.  Andrei!}  Newton,  who  lives  in  Waverly.  Iowa.  Jonathan.  3Iary 
Ann,  \\\\o  m.      Babbitt,  and  Delia,  who  m.     Martin. 
3»  Joel  H.  m.  Emma  Jane  McLaren,  of  Gardiner.  Me.,  who  d.  1879, 
Aug.  18,  aged  47.  He  is  in  business  with  his  son,  in  Cliicago  ;  bought  in 
1875,  the  house  built  by  Judge  liOcke.  on  the  north  corner  of  West  and 
Long  streets,  where  his  family  reside.  Ch.  William  Shakesjieare,  b.  1849, 
Jan.  17.  Georgianna  T.,  b.  in  Burlington,  Vt.,  1850,  March  11;  m.  James 
A.  Yantis,  and  1879,  Samuel  Pillsbury.  Jennie  B.,  b.  1853,  July  13 ;  m.  L. 
M.  Edwards,  of  Chicago. 
4.     Lucy  m.  1818, ^Sept..  Tlieodore  Strong,  of  Clinton,  New  York. 
DORR,  Theodore  Haskell,  Eev..  pastor  Unitarian  church;  was  b.  in 
Boston,  1815.  Aug.  13;  grad.  H.  C,  1835;  d.  in  Worcester.  1876,  Aug.  13. 
He  m.  Nancy  Eichards.  Ch.  Esther  Goldthwait,  b.  1840,  July  2.  Theodore 
Haskell,  b.  1842.  April  26. 
DOWSE.  1.  Ebenezer,  (Dows,  the  more  common,  early  form  in  our 
records,)   was  prob.   son  of  Samuel,  of  Charlestown.    whose  father  was 
 - 413 - 
42  DOWSE  —  DUNCKLE. 
Lawrence,  from  England.  He  was  b.  1G93,  Sept.  10;  m.  Mary. 
Oh.  Bnijamtn.  2,  b.  171.")-G.  Feb.  6.  Johiu  b.  (at  Chelmsford.)  1717.  Oct.  10. 
Ehmeser.  3,  b.  1719,  Dec.  29.  Martha,  b.  1722.  July  25;  m.  Thomas 
llogers,  son  of  John,  8.  Marij,  b.  1725,  Nov.  10;  m.  1745,  Oct.  22,  JosL'])h 
Foster,  of  Andover.  Anna,  b.  1727,  March  .JO;  m.  1755,  April  21,  Nathaniel 
Belcher,  of  Chelsea.  Susanna,  b.  1729,  Sept.  15.  Samvel,  b.  17;il-2, 
Jan.  12;  m.  1775.  Dec.  14,  Sarah  Rogers.     Elmzpr,  4,  b.  1734,  Dec.  26. 
2.  Benjamin,  son  of  Ebenezer,  1,  b.  1715-0,  Feb.  6;  in.  Ilaimah    . 
Ch.  Mary,  b.  1750.  April  4;  m.  Benjamin  Needham,  5.  Benjamin.  5,  b.  1752, 
Jan.  W.  Hann((h.  1).  1753,  Nov.  0;  d.  Nov.  24.  Martha',  b.  1754.  Nov.  4. 
Hannah,  b.  1750,  Oct.  24;  ni.  1780.  Oct.  19,  James  Mastermun.  of 
Charlestovvn.  Joseph,  b.  1758,  July  20;  d.  1759.  Oct.  3.  Joseph.  6,  b.  1700, 
Oct.  5.  Sfu-ah,  b.  1702.  March  10;  m.  1782.  Jan.  17.  Ebenezer  Newman,  ot 
AVoburn.  Abigail,  b.  1765,  Sept.  17 ;  m.  1782,  Nov.  19,  Josiah  Newman,  of 
Deering,  N.  II. 
3.  Ebenezer,  son  of  Ebenezer.  1,  b.  1719.  Dec.  29;  m.  Bette. 
Ch.  Susanna  and  Elizabeth,  b.  1757,  Jan.  28.  Susanna  m.  1780.  April  16, 
Joseph  Easterbrooks.  of  IloUis.  N.  H.  Buth,  b.  1759,  Aug.  9.  Mar)i, 
b.  1702.  Jun°  14.  3IolJ>i.  bap.  1765,  Sept.  8.  Olive,  b.  1705,  Oct.  15. 
Joanna,  b.  1708.  3Iarch  7.     Ludia,  b.  1772.  March  18. 
4.  Eleazer,  son  of  Ebenezer.  1,  b.  1734.  Dec.  20 ;  m.  Lucy.  Ch.  Eleazer 
b.  1764.  July  0.  Jesse,  b.  1767,  May  22.  Lucy,  b.  1769,  June'  25.  Thomas, 
b.  1771.  Oct.  5.  ■ 
5.  Beiijamin,  son  of  Benjamin.  2,  b.  1752.  Jan.  30;  in.  1773,  Sept.  9, 
Abigail  Frost,  dau.  of  James,  11.  She  d.  1788,  Nov.  19;  he  in.  1789, 
May  28.  Rebecca  Marshall.  i)rob.  dau.  of  Isaac,  6.  Ch.  Esther,  b.  1774, 
April  10;  d.  1775,  Oct.  15.  Abif/ail.  bap.  1775,  March  20.  Benjamin, 
b.  1777.  Feb.  15 ;  m.  1805,  Dec.  30.  Sally  French.  Abie/ail,  b.  1779,  Oct.  22 ; 
m.  1801.  Dec.  3,  Abijah  Hodgman,  of  Carlisle.  James,  b.  1781,  Oct.  3; 
d.  1782,  Dae.  11.  Patty,  b.  1783,  Sept.  15.  Polly,  b.  1785,  Sept.  9. 
Jonathan  and  Nanni.  b.  1788.  Oct.  6. 
6.  Joseph,  son  of  Benjamin,  2,  b.  1700,  Oct.  5;  m.  1784.  May  23. 
Sarah  Sprak  >,  dai.  of  Samuel.  4.     He  m.  b3fore  1812,  Mary   .     He  lived 
on  th;^  Rangeway  road,  n  )rth  of  Gilson's  hill  ;  was  an  mfluential  member 
and  deacon  of  "the  Baptist  church.  He  d.  1847.  Nov.  4.  Ch.  Sarah, 
b.  1792.  Dec.  28;  m.  Nathaniel  Stearns.  19.  Juda.  b.  1790.  Feb.  9.  Olive, 
b.  1798.  Jan.  Orpha.  b.  1802,  March  29;  m.  1831,  Dec.  14.  Josiah  Blodgett. 
Mirinda.  b.  1804,  June  10;  m.  1825,  Nov.  14,  George  Bolton.  Mary. 
b.  1800.  Sept.  11 ;  m.  Charles  V.  Brown,  21.  Eliza  Ann.  b.  1812,  Jan.  20; 
m.  Henry  Bowers.  10.  Joseph.  7,  b.  1813,  Oct.  22.  Emeline,  b.  1816,  Feb.  2. 
Elhridge.  b.  1818.  May  15;  d.  1846.  April  27.  Calvin.  8,  b.  1820,  Sept.  7. 
Amos  Wrif/ht.  b.  1823.  June  22.  Harriet  Xeroell,  b.  1825,  Dec.  24.  Gustavas 
Davis,  b.  1828.  Oct.  20. 
7.  Joseph,  son  of  Dea.  Joseph,  6,  b.  1813.  Oct.  22 ;  
m.  1841,  March  15, 
Maria  Ann  Ilutchins.     Ch.  Maria  Ann.  b.  1842,  Feb.  11. 
8.  Calvin  A.,  son  of  Dea.  Joseph.  6,  b.  1820,  Sept.  7;  m.  Mary  Ann 
T.    .     Ch.  Marti  Isabel,  b.  1844.  Sept.  11. 
DUMMER,  Samuel,  Esq.,  of  Wilmington,  m.  1737,  May  31,  Ehzabeth 
Euggles.  dau.  of  Rev.  Sauniel.  Ht'  d.  and  she  m.  Rev.  Daniel  Rogers,  of 
Littleton.     (;h.  Elizabeth,  b.  1738.  March  25;  d.  young. 
DUNX'KLE.  1.  Hezekiah,  was  son  of  Nathaniel,  of  Lexington. 
Mary,  his  mother,  was  dau.  of  William  French.  1.  He  was  bap.  1708, 
Nov.  21:  m.  1734.  Nov.  17.  Damaris  Wilson.  His  name  appears  on  our 
tax-list,  1740,  and  disappears  1701,  his  son  John  remaining  until  1763. 
Ch.  Hezehiah.  b.  1735,  Sept.  17.  Nathaniel,  2,  1).  1737.  Feb.  23.  Damaris, 
b.  1739,  March  16,  and  in  Billerica  :  
John,  b.  1749-1.  March  4.  Mary,  b.  1742, 
Nov.  20;  m.  John  Ross.  7.  Hannah,  b.  1744.  Oct.  1.  David,  h.  \74G, 
Aug.  16.  Sarah,  b.  1748.  Oct.  11.  Joseph,  b.  1750,  Oct.  21.  Thaddetts, 
b.  1753,  Jan.  5.     Hannah,  b.  1755,  May  28. 
 - 414 - 
DUNCKLE  —  DURRANT.  43 
2.  Nathaniel,  son  of  Hezekiah,  b.  1737,  Feb.  23;  m.  1758,  Nov.  3, 
Euth  Johnson,  of  Wobuin.  C'h.  Nathaniel,  b.  in  AVoburn,  1759.  Nov.  27. 
Buth.h.  1761,  Oct.  21;  m.  Isaac  Blanchard.  10.  Jsaac,  b.  1764,  Jan  15. 
Andrno  WiJsnn,  b.  1770.  March  30. 
DUNKIN.  1.  John,  may  have  been  son  of  Samuel,  of  Newbury 
He  was  granted.  1670,  May  10,  "'twenty  and  five  acres  of  land.  *  *  It 
lyeth  on  the  right  hand  of  y"  way,  before  you  enter  the  great  plaine,  as 
you  go  to  Koger  Toothalier's.  It  is  bounded  oia  y*^  north  partly  by  y«  highway 
that  leadeth  over  y*^  swamps  towards  Jeiff"'s  Cove,  and  southward,  p'ly  by 
John  Roger's  meadow,  by  foxes,"  [ i.  e.  by  Fox  brook  and  farm.]  "'and  p'ly 
by  Samuell  Maning  gratuity  land,  laid  out  at  same  time  ;  elsewhei-e.  by  ye 
comans,  taking  part  of  y*^  pine  Hand  beyond  John  liogei's'  meadow 
aforesaid,  boimded  elsewhere  bj^  comon  land.  This  land  was  granted  to 
y'=  said  Dunkin  for  a  fatt  oxe  they  bought  of  him  to  prsent  to  their  Deputy 
of  y"^  Genl.  ('o.."'  Mr.  Humphrey  Atherton.  of  Boston.  1673-4,  Jan.  20, 
he  was  granted  "all  town  rights  and  priviledges  for  y^  future,  to  the 
proportion  of  a  five  acre  lot."  This  was  the  Eussell  place,  one-half  mile 
south  of  North  Billerica.  He  m.  1674-5,  Feb.  23.  Johanna  Jefts,  dau.  of 
Henry,  1,  and  d.  of  small  pox,  1690,  Dec.  19.  His  widow  m.  Benjamin 
Dutton,  5,  and  was  killed  with  two  of  her  children  by  the  Indians,  1692, 
Aug.  1 .  C'h.  M«rv,  b.  1676,  March  25 ;  
killed  by  the  Indians.  Jo/ut,  2, 
b.  1678,  Oct.  28.  'johaana,  b.  1681,  April  9.  Uannah,  b.  1683,  Nov.  21. 
Samuel^  b.  1686,  "Ol,  04".  Ddiverance,  b.  1688,  Aug.  21.  Beiioni, 
b.  1690-91,  Feb.  1  ;  
killed  by  the  Indians. 
2.  John,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1678,  Oct.  28;  m.  1701.  June  16,  Sarah 
Dutton.  dau.  of  John,  3.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1703,  June  14.  John.  b.  1706. 
April  10,  i)rob.  m.  1727,  Sept.  5,  Sarah  Eogers.  dau.  of  Nathaniel,  6. 
Samuel,  b.  1708,  July  5.  EzekieUh.  1710-1,  Jan.  9;  d.  Feb.  8.  Daniel, 
b.  1711-2.  Feb.  13.  Peiliaps  Simeon,  who  m.  1743,  Aug.  22,  Bridget 
Richai'dson. 
DURRANT.  1.  John,  [now  commonly  Durant  or  Duren,]  received 
a  grant.  1659,  Nov.  His  house-lot  was  '"twenty  acres  of  land,  more  or 
less,  lying  on  the  north  of  the  township,  and  on  the  west  of  y''  country 
road  that  leads  to  Chelmsford,  beginning  at  a  white  oak,  just  beyond  the 
next  dirty  place,  beyond  Abbot's  bridge,  and  so  reacheth  to  y"^  bounds  of 
William  Haile,  who  bounds  him  on  the  north  ;  
bounded  by  y'=  road  on  the 
east;  by  Concord  river,  on  y«  west;  and  by  John  Bracket,  on  the  south." 
This  "next  dirty  place,"  was  the  little  brook  b}^  the  old  cemetery  at  the 
corner.  Mr.  Anthony  Jones'  farm  includes  most  of  this  grant  to  Durrant. 
He  m.  1670,  Nov.  16,  Susan  Dutton,  dau.  of  Thomas,  1,  who  became  his 
neighbor,  on  the  east,  in  1669.  "John  Durrant.  Sen.,  dyed  in  prison,  at 
Cambridge,"'  1692,  Oct.  27.  The  date  suggests  Fanner's  probable 
conjecture,  that  the  charge  against  him  was  witchcraft.  Ch.  John^  2, 
b.  1672.  July  31.  Thomas,  3,  b.  1674-5,  Jan.  7.  Ahiijail,  b.  1681,  Sept.  24. 
Ilehitahle,  b".  1687.  April  20. 
2.  John,  son  of  John.  1,  b.  1672,  July  31 ;  m.  1695,  Aug.  10.  Elizabeth 
Jaquish,  dau.  prob.  of  Abraham  Jaquith.  of  Woburn.  He  d.  1757,  Feb.  25. 
Ch.  John,  4,  b.  1696,  Aug,  14.  Elizabeth,  b.  1698.  Sept.  Thomas,  b.  1701, 
Oct.  Abigail,  h.l703-i,  March  10.  Esther,  b.  1707.  June  10;  m.  1738-9, 
Feb.  22,  Joseph  Brooks,  Concord.  Abraham,  5,  b.  1709,  April  1.  Mehittabel 
b.  1711,  April  1.  Sary,  b.  1712,  June  15;  perhaps  m.  1744,  July  3,  John 
Teel.  Charlestown. 
3.  Thomas,  son  of  John.  1,  b.  1674-5,  Jan.  7;  ra.  1702,  June  12, 
Sarah  Jaquith.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1703-4.  Jan.  1 ;  ni.  James  Farley.  10. 
Thomas,  b.  1705,  June  2.  Susanna,  b.  1707,  Aug.  18;  m.  Joseph  Hamblet, 
of  Nottingham.  Benjamin,  6,  b.  1709,  Aug.  19.  John,  7,  b.  1712,  May  2. 
Probably  Henry,  9. 
4.  John,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  1696,  Aug.  14;  m.  Hannah.  Ch.  John,  8, 
b.  1722,  Aug.  24.  Thomas,  b.  1725,  May  2.  William,  b.  1727,  Nov.  7;  m. 
1749,  Feb.  16,  Mary  Dutch,  Wilmington.  Perhaps  Sihbel,  who  m.  Jonas 
Robbhis. 
 - 415 - 
44  DURRANT. 
5.  Abraham,  son  of  John,  2,  h.  1709.  April  1 ;  ni.  1736,  May  20,  Rachel 
]Man^in«,^  dan.  of  William.  4.  Ch.  Ahnihnm.  10,  b.  1737,  Oct.  4. 
Jonathan.  11,  1).  1739.  Aug-.  20.  Martha,  b.  1741.  June  11  ;  ni.  1709.  July  17. 
Jonas  Priest,  of  Groton.  Jhichcl,  b.  1743.  May  (i ;  ni.  Leonard  Wilson.  7. 
Joseph,  b.  1744-5.  Fob.  6.  Roabon.  12,  b.  1747-8.  Feb.  29.  Jimns.  b.  1751. 
June  4 ;  ni.  1776.  Dec.  7,  Esther  Janes,  of  Bedford.  Asa,  b.  1753.  July  15. 
Sarah.  1).  1757.  Nov.  4;  ni.  Daniel  Whitney,  of  »Sto\ve. 
6.  Benjamin,  son  of  Tlionias.  3,  I).  1709.  Aug-.  19;  ni.  1738.  May  9. 
Mary  Butler,  of  Nottingham,  gi-.daa.  of  our  James  Butlei-.  Ch.  Thomas, 
b.  1738-9.  March  3.  3/'<n/.  b.  1740,  June  23.  Benjamin,  b.  1741,  June. 
iSamncI.  l)a]).  1749.  Sept.  15. 
7.  John,  son  of  Thomas,  3,  b.  1712.  May  2;  m.  Phebe.  Ch.  Olive, 
b.  1739.  Aug.  29.  Phebe,  b.  1741.  Oct.  14;  m.  Daniel  Stevens,  of 
Chelmsford,  whose  son  Daniel  was  father  of  George  Stevens,  Esq..  of 
Lowell.  Sarah,  b.  1743.  Nov.  1.  Joshua,  b.  1745.  Nov.  30.  L>^vi,  b.  1748, 
July  9.  Fhebe  and  ElizaJ>eth,  bap.  1750,  Oct.  14.  ReMcf,  bap.  1752,  March  29. 
Joshua,  bap.  1754.  April  14.     Levi,  \)i\\).  1756.  Aug.  22. 
8.  John,  son  of  John.  4,  1).  1722,  Aug.  24;  m.  1746,  Oct..  Ellener 
Neal.  Ch.  Ihankfnl.  ]>.  1751.  Aug.  20.  Hannah,  b.  1755,  April  4. 
Elizabeth,  bap.  1755.  Sept.  28.  (prob.  error  for  Hannah). 
9.  Henry,  prob.  son  of  Thomas,  3,  in.  Hannah.  Name  on  tax-list, 
1733-4.     Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1744-5,  Feb.  20.     Asa.  b.  1746.  July  25. 
10.  Abraham,  son  of  Abraham.  5,  b.  1737,  Oct.  4;  m.  1764,  Nov.  1, 
Lydia  Gould,  of  (hehnsford.  He  d.  1776.  Nov.  6;  she  m.  1790.  Aug.  11, 
John  Fletcher,  of  Merriniac,  N.  II.  She  d.  1822,  March  1.  aged  84. 
Ch.  Lijdia,  b.  1767,  Jan.  28;  m.  Benoni  Spalding.  4.  Benjamin,  b.  1769, 
June  14.  Abij,  b.  1771,  May  31;  m.  James  Searles.  Abraham,  b.  1776, 
Sept.  16;  m.  1801.  Oct.  25.  Mary.  dau.  of  James  Kussell;  lived  at 
Durenville,  in  Woburn;  had  ch.  Sanuiel  E.,  Lydia.  AYarren.  William  and 
Abraham,  who  m.  1842,  April  5.  Pruilence  Simonds. 
11.  Jonathan,  son  of  Abraham.  5,  1).  1739.  Aug.  20;  m.  1763, 
April  17.  Anna  Wilkins.  of  Concord,  (see  Wilkins).  Ch.  Anna,  b.  1764, 
Dec.  30;  Bette.  bap.  1766.  Aug.  10.     Joseph,  bap.  1768,  May  1. 
12.  Reuben,  son  of  Abraham.  5,  b.  1747-8,  Fel).  29;  m.  1770.  Jan.  11, 
Mary  Gould,  of  Chelmsford.  He  lived  in  Bedford  until  1792.  when  he 
purchased  the  tavern  at  the  corner,  and  kept  it  several  years.  He  was 
architect  of  churches  and  bridges;  d.  1821.  Jan.  4.  His  widow  d.  1823, 
Oct.  16.  aged  77.  Ch.  EU,  b.  1770.  Sept.  21;  d.  1771,  July  22. 
Mary,  b.  1771,  Dec.  7;  m.  Ste]ihen  Parker.  18.  Reuben,  13,  b. 
1775.  Aug.  4.  Asa,  14,  b.  1778,  May  11.  Joel,  15,  b.  1780, 
June  22.  Nathaniel  Gonld.  b.  1781,  Nov.  26;  m.  Sally  Prichard.  Changed 
his  name  to  Nathaniel  Duren  fJould.  1806  ;  lived  witli  his  uncle,  Nathaniel 
Gould,  of  New  Ipswich  ;  widely  known  as  a  teacher  of  singing  and  writing. 
He  was  father  of  ^Vugustus  Addison  Gould,  the  eminent  naturalist,  and 
author  of  various  important  scientific  works.  Grad.  H.  C,  1825;  d.  1S(JG. 
Charles  D.  Gould,  another  son,  and  Joshua  Lincoln,  who  m.  liis  daughter 
Elizabeth,  were  long  and  widely  known  as  Gould  &  Lincoln.  ))ublishers 
and  book-sellers  in  Boston.  Joseph,  b.  1784.  July  30;  m.  Lucinda  Clark; 
lived  in  Swanton  and  other  towns  in  northeiii  Vt.  ;  drew  jiension  for 
wound  received  in  the  War  of  1812;  d.  in  ^liddleburv.  1853.  June  8. 
Elnathan.  h.  1786.  Oct.  8;  m.  1811.  Dec.  10.  Elizabeth"  Freeman.  She 
d.  1815.  Aug.  28;  he  m.  1834.  Sept.  16,  Mary  Willard.  lie  lived  in  Boston. 
C^harlestown.  N.  II..  and  other  towns;  spent  his  last  years  in  Bangor.  He 
had  two  sons.  (1)  Elnathan  Freeman,  b.  in  Boston.  1814.  Jan.  14;  has 
resided  since  1834  in  Bangor,  a  \\ell-known  book-seller  and  publisher. 
(2)  Charles,  b.  1815.  June  28;  grad.  B.  ('.,  1833;  Bangor  Theo.  Sem..  1839; 
ordained.  1841,  Feb.  3;  has  been  a  Congregational  minister  in  IVIaine. 
Minnesota  and  Vermont.  Abel,  b.  1788.  .July  8;  m.  Nancy  and  Abigail 
Allen;  d.  1829.     Charles,  b.  1791,  Jan.  20;  d.  1796.  July  13. 
 - 416 - 
DURRANT  —  DUTTON.  45 
13.  Reuben,  son  of  Keulx'ii.  12,  b.  in  Bedford,  1775.  Aug.  4;  m.  1799, 
Oct.  20.  Sarah  Conant,  dau.  of  Eli.  of  ('oneord.  He  d.  in  Augusta.  Me., 
1S;^2,  Feb.  13.  C'h.  Charles  Citslniu/.  h.  1800.  Sept.  2;  d.  1801,  Feb.  5. 
Infant,  b.  and  d.  1802.  Nov.  Alfred,  b.  1804.  May  4:  sailed  from  Boston. 
1829,  and  never  heard  from.  Bvfiis  Gardiner,  h.  1806,  March  9;  d.  1807. 
Jan.  9.  and  b.  in  Augusta  :  Andrew.,  Alexander  Bowers.  Sarah  Ann  and 
Gearr/e. 
i4-  Asa,  son  of  Reuben.  12,  b.  1778,  May  11 ;  ra.  Hannah  Euss.  He 
d.  in  New  York.     C'h.  Cynthia,  b.  1800.  May  19.     Asa,  b.  1802,  Jan.  14. 
15.  Joel,  son  of  Reuben,  12,  b.  1780,  June  22;  m.  Lydia  Conant,  of 
Concord.  He  d.  in  the  Army,  at  Governor's  Island,  1812.  Ch.  Robert 
Osborn.  h.  1803.  Nov.  8.  Georqe.  b.  1806,  July  6.  Adeline,  b.  1808,  Feb.  17; 
m.  1834.  Oct.  12.  George  W.  Stevens. 
DliTlON.  1.  Thomas,  came  from  Woburn,  but  had  previously  lived 
in  Reading,  where  four  children  were  born.  He  was  prob.  son  of  John, 
and  b.  about  1()21.  He  was  accepted  as  an  inhabitant  of  Billenca.  1669, 
Nov.  22;  lived  on  Jlie  south  side  of  fox  brook,  by  the  old  and  long 
abandoned  road  to  the  '  
great  plain,'  north-west  of  the  Davis  place.  His 
wife.  Susannah,  d.  1684,  Aug.  27.  aged  about  08.  He  m.  1684.  Nov.  10, 
Mrs.  Ruth  Hooper,  prob.  widDW  of  William,  of  Reading,  whose  will  bears 
date.  1678.  Aug.  5.  and  names  <>  children,  one  a  dau.  Ruth.  Ch.  Thomas.  2, 
b.  1648.  Sept.  14.  Nary.  b.  Kir^l.  Sept.  14;  m.  Jacob  Hamlet.  2.  Siisanna, 
b.  1653-4.  Fel).  27;  m.  John  Durrant,  1.  John.  3,  b.  1656,  March  2,  The 
following  prob.  b.  in  Woburn:  Elizabeth,  b.  1658-9.  Jan.  28.  Joseph,  4, 
b.  1660-i,  Jan.  25.  Sarah,  b.  1661-2,  March  5;  m.  1683.  April  3,  Samuel 
Lewis.     James,  b.  1665,  Aug.  22.     Benjamin,  5,  b.  1667,  Feb.  19. 
2.  Thomas,  son  of  Thomas.  1,  b.  1648;  m.  1678-9,  Jan.  11,  Mrs. 
Rebecca  l)rai)ei-.  widow,  of  Concord.  She  d.  1720-21,  March  16;  he  m. 
1721.  Nov..  Sarah  Convers.  He  was  in  '"the  expedition,  to  the  eastward," 
in  1677,  and  as  elsewhere  related,  had  a  marvellous  escape,  when  many  of 
Capt.  Sweat's  company  were  killed.  Ch.  Rebecca,  b.  1679,  Nov.  13;  m. 
Daniel  Shed,  7.  r/jowias,  6,  b.  1681,  Aivg.  2.  John,  b.  1683-4.  Feb.  24; 
d.  1687,  Dec.  14.  Stisanna.  b.  1687,  April  30;  d.  1688.  Sept.  3.  Susanna., 
b.  1687,  Nov.  4. 
3.  John,  son  of  Thomas.  1,  b.  1656,  March  2;  m.  1681.  Sept.  20,  Sarah 
Shed,  dau.  of  Daniel,  1.  Shed.  1720-1.  Feb.  27;  he  m.  1721,  May.  Ruth 
Frost,  prob.  widow  of  Dr.  Samuel,  X,  He  lived  on  the  north  side  of  the 
Andover  road,  near  the  corner,  where  Mr.  Eben  Baker  now  lives.  He  d. 
1735,  Apiil  7.  and  his  widow.  1738.  July  18.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1683-4.  Jan.  10; 
m.  John  Dunkin.  2.  John.  b.  1685-6,  March  9;  d.  March  16.  Hannah,  b. 
1687,  April  25  ;  m.  John  Sanders.  2.  Abigail.}).  1689-90.  Feb.  10 ;  d.  1693, 
Dec.  29.  Samnel,  7,  b.  1693-4,  March  22.  John.  b.  1696,  Sept.  13. 
Jonathan,  8,  b.  1699-1700.  Feb.  4.  James,  b.  1703-4.  Feb.  1;  m.  Phebe 
  .  and  lived  in  Chelmsford. 
4.  Joseph,    son   of  Thomas.   1,   b.   1661,   Jan.  25;  m.  Rebecca    . 
Ch.  Rebecca,  b.  1686.  Aug.  13. 
5.  Benjamin,  son  of  Thomas.  1,  b.  1669,  Feb.  19;  m.  1690,  July  1 
Joanna  Dunkin,  widow  of  John.  1.     She  was  killed,  with  2  children,  bj- 
the  Indians,  1692,  Aug.  1.    He  in.  2d,  Susanna    ,  and  had  ch.  Benjamin, 
b.  1693-4.  Feb.  11. 
6.  Thomas,  son  of  Thomas,  2,  b.  1681,  Aug.  2;  m.  1710-1.  Jan.  3, 
Hannah  Burge,  of  Chelmsford.  He  I'emoved  to  Westford,  after  1738,  and 
d.  there.  1759.  Ch.  Joseph,  b.  1711.  Dec.  12;  settled  in  Westford.  1739;  m. 
Rebecca  Adams,  of  Chelmsford.  Thomas,  9,  b.  1713,  Aug.  28.  John,  10,  b. 
1714-5.  Feb.  13.  Josiah,  b.  1716-7,  Feb.  21.  Hannah  and  Rebecca,  b. 
1718,  Aug.  10.  Hannah  d.  in  Oct.,  and  Rebecca,  early.  Benjamin,  b. 
1720,  May  2.  James,  b.  1721,  May  5.  Hannah,  b.  1723.  June  13;  m. 
Joshua  Frost.  14.  Rebecca,  h.  1726,  May  18.  Ephraim.  b.  1727-8.  Jan.  1. 
David,  b.  1731,  May  22.     Snsanna  b.  1732-3,  March  10. 
 - 417 - 
46  BUTTON  —  ELLIOTT. 
7.  Samuel,  son  of  John,  3,  b.  1693-4,  March  22;  m.  Hannah  Hill, 
pi'ob.  widow  of  Nathaniel,  7.  Ch.  John^  b.  1715,  Oct.  18.  Samuel,  b.  1718, 
Oct.  15. 
8.  Jonathan,  son  of  John,  3,  b.  1699-1700,  Feb.  10;  m.  1722,  June  22, 
Sarah  Leviston;'.  dau.  of  John,  1.  Ch.  John.  b.  1723.  April  14; 
dismissed,  with  his  wife,  to  New  Ipswich,  1755.  Sarah,  b.  1724-5,  Feb.  12; 
m.  James  Crosby,  17.  JoiiatJuni,  b.  1727.  March  29.  David^  b.  1729, 
April  17.     Mm-n\  b.  1731,  March  30.     Joshua,  b.  1732-3,  Feb.  14. 
9.  Thomas,  son  of  Thomas,  6,  b.  1713.  Aug.  28;  m.  1737.  May  10, 
Marv  Hill.  ])r()b.  dau.  of  Saumel,  10.     Ch.  il/rer//,  b.  1737,  Dec.  14. 
"10.  John,  son  of  Thomas.  6,  b.  1714-5,  Feb.  13;  m.  1740,  Feb.  18. 
Eebecca  Shed.  dau.  of  Benjauiin.  8.  He  d.  1760,  Dec.  1,  and  his  wife, 
Dec.  19.  and  his  dau.  llebecca.  the  17th,  all  of  small-pox.  C^h.  RcJiecra,  b. 
1741,  Jan.  19.  and  d.  1760,  Dec.  17.  John,  b.  1746,  June  20;  d.  1749, 
Auo-.  19.  Hannah,  b.  1747.  Oct.  11  ;  
d.  1749,  Sept.  2.  John.  b.  1750-1, 
Jan.  16.  Hannah,  b.  1752,  Oct.  12;  m.  1773,  March  30,  William  Parlver. 
Benjamin,  b.  1754,  May  13;  m.  1777,  Feb.  27,  Patty,  dau.  of  Nathaniel 
Cumings,  1.      William.,  b.  17.59,  Jan.  30. 
11.  Hiram  Edwin,  son  of  Hiram,  of  Bedford,  rn.  1873,  April  23,  Mrs. 
Adelaide  E.  Shed,  widow  of  Thomas,  27.  Cli.  Lottie  May,  b.  1875.  Jan.  13. 
Frederic,  b.  1876.  Aug.  19. 
DYAR,  Lydia,  widow,  b.  in  Boston;  came  to  B.,  1775,  "to  escape  ye 
abuse  of  y^'  Ministerial  troops  sent  by  George,  y  3d,  to  subject  North 
America  to  slavery;"'  d.  1776,  July  28.  aged  80. 
EAMES.  1.  Joshua,  m.  1793,  Jan.  22,  Lydia  Snow,  widow  of 
Eichard.  2. 
2.  John,  son  of  Sanmel,  of  Marshfield  or  Boston,  m.  1828.  June  24, 
Hannah  Bowers,  dau.  of  Jonathan  S.,  8.  He  now  lives  in  Maiden. 
Ch.  Mam  (ireen,  b.  1829,  June  22.  i'V«»,c-es,  b.  1831,  Jan.  3 ;  
d.  Emily, 
b.  1832.  Nov.  1  ;  
d.     Ellen,  b.  1834,  Oct.  1 ;  
d. 
3.  Thomas,  brother  of  John,  m.  1834,  May  29.  Lucy  Ann  Norton, 
dau.  of  Bcv.  .Jacob;  no  ch. 
EASTE,  1.  Benjamin,  of  Stoughton,  m.  1732.  Dec.  6,  Abigail 
Fai-ley,  dau.  of  Timothy.  7,  and  was  prob.  father  of  Benjamin,  who  m. 
Mary  and  had  ch.  Benjamin,  b.  1765.  June  3.  Mary.  b.  1767,  May  1 ;  m.  Asa 
Needham,  6.  Abi'iail'.  b.  1770,  Jan.  5.  Ebenezer,  b.  1772,  Oct.  3;  d.  1830, 
April  14.     Caleb,  b.  1774.  Oct.  3. 
3.  Lot  and  wife  Mary  had  ch.  Joseph  Elliot,  b.  1833.  Nov.  18.  Asa 
Franklin,  b.  1836,  Jan.  19. 
4.  John  N.  and  wife  Sarah  had  ch.  3fary  Ann.  b.  1844.  May  25. 
EDES,  John,  on  tax-list,  1776;  m.  1776.  April  2,  Khoda  Richardson, 
dau.  of  Ebenezer.  11.     Cli.  John  and  Mar»i.  bap.  1779,  June  6. 
ELLICE,  Thomas,  took  the  oath  of  flilelity.  1685. 
Elizabeth  m.  Benjamin  BuUard,  of  Medfield.  1677.  May  1. 
ELLIOTT,  George  Perkins,  son  of  John,  who  went  from  Boscawen, 
N.  H.,  to  Cliclsi'a.  Vt..  where  this  son  was  b.  1804.  Oct.  28;  m.  1829,  May. 
Elizabeth  Tidd,  dau.  of  John,  of  Lexington.  Slie  d.  1834,  Jan.  9.  and  he 
m.  1841.  Feb.  10.  Mary  Ann  Whiting,  dau.  of  Samuel.  12.  She  d.  in 
Lowell.  1846.  Sept.  25.  and  he  m.  1848,  Jan.  20.  Ann  Dalton  Rogers,  dau. 
of  Col.  Henry  Newman  Rogers,  of  Boston.  He  came  to  Billerica  in  1833, 
but  lived  in  Lowell.  1842-53,  where  he  was  a  member  of  the  city 
government,  a  corporator  of  the  Central  Savings  Bank,  and  one  of  the 
founders  of  the  Appleton  Bank.  He  has  been  nearly  20  years  a  Trustee 
of  the  State  Almshouse  in  Tewksbury;  was  a  member  of  the  Legislature 
in  1801.  when  the  repeal  of  the  law  i-equiring  the  removal  of  the  dam  at 
North  Billerica  was  secured.  Ch.  Georr/e  Henry,  b.  1830,  March  28;  grad. 
U.  S.  Military  Academy,  at  West  Point,  ranking  4th  in  his  class,  1855  ; 
2d  Lieut..  1st  Artillery,  1855-7,  when  he  was  transferred  to  the  Corps  of 
Engineers  ;  became  Captain  in  1863,  and  Major  in  1867.  In  service  on  the 
frontier,  1855-7  ;  on  the  Pacific  coast,  and  especially  the  San  Francisco 
 - 418 - 
ELLIOTT  —  FARLEY.  47 
defences,  until  1870;  Engineer  Sc-eretaiy  of  the  Light-House  Board, 
1870-4.  and  since.  Assistant  to  the  Chief  of  Engineers  at  Washington.  He 
was  in  charge  of  the  Washington  Aciucduct,  1870-1.  He  published  in  1S74, 
•*   The  Presidio  of  San  Francisco.  Cal."  and  '•  
Ijglit-House  Establishments 
in  Europe."  embodying  the  results  of  an  inspection  in  1873.  John. 
b.  1882.  March  1 :  
d.  in  Boston,  1869.  Jan.  31.  EUzahdh.  b.  1834.  Jan.  2; 
d.  May  2.  Siiunn  Ann  Dultun  Buyers,  b.  1849.  Oct.  15.  3Iartj  Elizabt'lh, 
b.  1851.  April  19. 
EMERSON,  Asa,  had  Ludia  bap.  1784.  Aug.  15. 
FARLEY.  1.  George,  was  early  in  "\\  oburn.  and  one  of  the  first 
settlers  of  Shawshin.  He  bought  the  north-west  lot  of  the  Dudley  farm, 
where  he  lived,  near  the  Jaipiith  place.  He  was  a  clothiei-;  was  one  of  the 
early  Baptists,  and  a  member  of  the  church  in  Boston.  He  m.  1641, 
April  9.  at  Wobuin.  Christian  Births,  and  d.  1693.  Dec.  27.  Mrs.  Farley 
d.  1702.  March  27.  Ch.  Jam/s.  h.  1643,  Nov.  23;  d.  Dec.  10.'  Caleb,  2, 
b.  1645.  April  1.  Manj.  b.  1646-7.  Feb.  27;  m.  John  Sanders,  1.  Samuel.  3, 
b.  1654,  ^Nlarch.  "  las£  week."  MehiitaheU.  b.  1656.  April.  ''  y^'  last  week," 
and  d.  1672-3.  Feb.  1.  Probably  Timothy  was  also  his  son.  and  b.  in  Woburn, 
who  was  killed  by  the  Indians,  at  Brooktield,  in  1675.  Elizabeih  was  iu 
Billerica  in  1677.  probably  another  daughter. 
2.  Caleb,  son  of  George.  1,  b.  1645,  April  1 ;  m.  1666,  July  5,  Rebecca 
Hill.  dau.  of  IJnlph.  1.  After  1671.  he  lived  in  Woburn.  until  1679.  May  2, 
when  he  exchanged  homesteads  with  AVilliam  Hamlet,  and  returned  to  B. 
Later,  he  went  to  Poxburv.  but  came  back  and  lived  with  Golden  More. 
His  wife  d.  1669,  March  29,  and  he  m.  1669.  Nov.  3.  Lydia  More,  dau. 
of  Golden.  1.  Ch.  Caleb,  4,  b.  1667.  June  28.  Bebecca,  b.  1668-9.  March  10; 
m.  Thomas  Frost,  6.  Lydia,  b.  1670,  Sept.  27;  m.  Zechary  Shed,  4. 
i/«HHfl/(,  b.  1671,  Oct.  18.  Ebenezer,  5,  b.  1674,  April  3.  Geeji-ge,  6, 
b.  1677.  July  30.  Timothy,  7,  b.  1680,  July  29.  Joseph,  8,  b.  1683, 
April  6.     Benjamin,  9,  1).  1685-6,  Feb.  8.     Enueh,  b.  1688.  Dec.  21. 
3.  Samuel,  b.  1654.  March.  ••  the  last  week,"  the  first  birth  in  town. 
This  honor  has  been  accorded  to  John  Stearns,  erroneously.  Parker's 
original  i-ecord,  made  at  the  time  of  his  appointment  as  clerk,  1657. 
(Vol.  I,  Reverse,  p.  2.)  reads  ••  Samuel  ffarley.  the  son  of  George  ffiirley, 
and  Christian,  his  wife,  was  borne  in  the  last  week  of  the  1th  mo., 
1654."  Then  after  record  of  the  birth  of  Mehittable  Farley,  and  the 
marriage  of  John  Trull,  we  find  --John  Sterne,  the  sonn  of  John  Sterne 
and  Sara,  his  wife,  was  borne  the  seconde  week  of  May,  1654."  In  1658, 
'•aliste  of  all,"  to  that  date,  was  delivered  to  the  Recorder,  who  was 
Thouias  Danforth,  of  Cambridge,  and  his  copy  of  this  return,  made  by 
Parker,  is  preserved  among  the  Probate  Records.  The  list  includes  eleven 
births,  arranged  in  chronological  order,  and  the  first  name  is  Samuel  Farley, 
giving  also  the  name  of  the'month.  March,  when  he  was  born.  The  two 
prime  authorities  are  thus  concurrent  and  decisive. 
It  happens  to  be  easy  to  trace  to  source  of  the  error  in  this  matter. 
When  Jonathan  Danforth  'became  clerk,  in  1664.  he  provided  a  new  book 
for  separate  record  of  "Births,  Marriages  and  Deaths,"  and  to  this  voluuie 
transferred  the  records  made  by  Parker.  In  this  transcript.  Parker's 
"1th  mo.."  of  Farlev's  birth,  becomes  "07"'."  and  makes  it  appear  to 
come  after  Steam's  birth,  in  May.  Danforth  either  made  a  mistake  or  a 
correction.  If  the  latter  were* the  fact,  he  would  have  made  the  case 
explicit,  as  he  does  in  the  previous  entry  of  his  own  marriage  which 
Parker  had  given  as  1655.  and  Danforth  changes  plainly  to  1654.  The 
fact  that  he  makes  no  similar  correction  of  Farley's  birth-date  is  proof 
that  he  saw  no  need  of  it.  which  indicates  that  the  ' 7 ' was  a  slip  of  his 
pen  and  not  a  correction.  This  supposition  is  more  credible  than  the  other, 
M-hich  assumes  that  Parker's  record  made  seven  years  earlier,  and  carefully 
returned  to  the  recorder,  was  wrong  in  the  number  and  name  of  month  and 
the  order  of  nauies;  and  it  is  the  more  credible,  because  in  the  transcript 
of  the  fii-st  female  bli-th,  Hannah  Jefts,  the  '14'  becomes  "04." 
 - 419 - 
48  FARLEY  —  FARMER . 
But  Danforth's  record  has  been  the  authority  for  later  explorers. 
Very  few  would  diseover  the  earlier  record  of  Parker,  or  if  they  did  so. 
would  uotiee  the  dittereuce  ;  aud  thus  Fanner  and  others  have  given 
Farley's  place  to  Stearns,  repeating  Danforth's  error. 
Sanniel  Farlev  ni.  1(577.  April  11.  Elizabeth  Shed.  dau.  of  Daniel.  1, 
lie  left  town  ])rol).  before  1700.  Ch.  Dphorah.  b.  l()78-!l,  March  1.  Sarah. 
b.  1680.  Jan.  2(5.  Elitalwlh,  b.  1(582.  Oct.  27;  (prob.  slie  ni.  17;{G,  Sept.  9, 
Uriah  Leonard,  of  Stoughton).  liuth  and  Joseph,  b.  1(58.").  Oct.  1.  /Samuel, 
h.  1(587,  Aug.  22.     JIary,  b.  I(i89,  Aug.  20.     Jamas,  b.  1601,  Oct.  6. 
4.  Caleb,  .Tun.,  son  of  Caleb.  2,'  
b.  1667.  June  28;  in.  1(586.  April  8, 
Sarah  (Jodfrv.  of  Haverhill.  Shed.  1704,  Xov.  13;  he  ni.  1707.  Sept.  2."), 
J.vdia  Haws.  Ch.  (reon/c,  h.  168(5-7,  Jan.  26.  Caleb,  h.  1688.  Jan.  (5. 
John.  10,  b.  1600.  :Mav  22.  Sarah,  h.  1692.  Julv  27.  Mart/,  b.  1694.  Sept.  26. 
James.  11,  1).  1697.  St'pt.  8.  Deborah,  b.  1698-9,  Feb.  2(5.  Jonathan,  b.  1701, 
Oct.  2.     Sainiie].  h.  1703.  April. 
5.  Ebeiiezer,  son  of  Calel),  2,  b.  1674.  April  3;  ni.  1703.  June  6, 
Elizalx'th  Shed.  dau.  of  John.  3.  He  d.  1728.  Aug.  16.  Ch.  Elizabeth. 
b.  1704.  March  28 ;  m.  John  Shed.  10.  Ebenezer.  b.  170.5-6.  Feb.  4 ;  
d.  1722, 
Dec.  29.  Hannah  m.  Abraham  Jaquith,  1,  Rebecca,  b.  1709-10,  March  14; 
d.  1727-8.  Feb.  3. 
6.  George,  son  of  Caleb.  2,  b.  1677,  July  30;  ni.  1699,  July  14, 
IJebecca  Stearns,  widow  of  Thomas,  4.  Ch.  Lydia.  Anna.  b.  1702, 
April  29.  Enoch.  h.M^n.  July  23;  d.  1723.  Aug.  17.  Esther,  b.  1707. 
May  31;  m.  Jonathan  Baldwin,  7.'  Probably  Rebecca,  who  ni.  Daniel 
Shed.  12. 
7.  Timothy,  son  of  Caleb.  2,  b.  1(580,  July  29;  m.  1704,  Nov.  1, 
Abigail  Foster,  of  AVoburn.  Ch.  Abiqail.  b.  1705.  Sept.  8:  m.  Benjamin 
Easte.  Caleb,  b.  1707.  April  18.  Elizabeth,  b.  1711,  Xov.  9;  m.  173r)-6, 
March  17.  Jerahmell  Bowers,  of  Chelmsford.  Timothy.  12.  b.  1713, 
June  13.     L'idia.  b.  1715,  April  8. 
8.  Joseph,  son  of  Caleb,  2,  b.  1683.  April  6;  m.  1712,  May  8,  Al)igail 
Cook,  of  Candjridge.  He  d.  1752,  Dec.  19,  and  his  widow.  1753,  Jan.  18, 
aged  64.  Ch.  Sar^i.  b.  1712-3.  Feb.  26;  d.  1716,  Oct.  Joseph.  h.llW. 
Aug.  25.  Abigail,  b.  1716.  Dec.  18.  Lydia.  b.  1719,  April  30;  m.  prob. 
James  Twist,  of  Woburn,  1754,  June  27.  Sarah,  b.  1721,  Aug.  1 ;  m.  1741, 
Julv  23.  Josiah  Blood,  of  Dunstable.  Mary.  b.  1723,  Oc^t.  16.  Elizabeth. 
b.  i725-6.  Feb.  18 ;  m.  (^aleb  Farley,  13.  CaMK  b.  1727-8.  Feb.  20;  d.  1753. 
June  2.  Ehenezer.  b.  1731,  May  15;  m.  1755.  Oct.  15.  llepzibah  Wyman, 
of  \V(jl)urn. 
9.  Benjamin,  son  of  Caleb.  2,  b.  1685-6,  Feb.  8;  m.  1707,  Oct.  29, 
Anna  Dunt(')n,  of  Cambridge.  Ch.  Benjamin,  b.  1708,  Aug.  28.  Sarah. 
b.  1709-10,  Feb.  8.     Anna.  b.  1711,  Nov.  15. 
10.  John,  son  of  Caleb.  4,  b.  1(590,  Mav  22;  m.  Mary.  Ch.  John. 
b.  in  Lexington.  1714,  Oct.  31.  Mary.  b.  1716,  Nov.  10.  Prudence,  b.  1719-20, 
Jan.  5.     Amos.  b.  1724.  April  11. 
11.  James,  son  of  Caleb,  4,  b.  1697.  Sept.  8;  m.  1728,  May  17,  Sarah 
Durrent,  dau.  of  Thomas,  3.  He  was  dismissed  to  Hollis,  in  1769. 
Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1729,  31arch  27.  Caleb.  13,  b.  1730,  Oct.  19.  Sarah. 
b.  1733.  April  16.  L»ida.  b.  1737-8,  Jan.  13 ;  m.  John  Conray.  Mary. 
b.    1741,    Dec.    18.         ' 
12.  Timothy,  son  of  Timothy,  7,  b.  1713.  June  13;  m.  1743,  Oct.  17, 
Mary  Eicliardson.  of  Bedford.  Ch.  Timotht/.  b.  1744.  Aug.  13.  Man/. 
b.  ]"745.  Oct.  31.  John.  b.  1747-8,  Jan.  3.  .4W^rtj7,  bap.  1750,  Feb.  11. 
Benjamin,  bap.  17.59.  Dec.  30. 
13.  Caleb,  son  of  James,  11,  b.  1730.  Oct.  19;  m.  17.54,  Oct.  17, 
Elizaljcth  Farley,  dau.  of  Joseph,  8.  Capt.  Farley  removed  to  Hollis  in  1765, 
and  d.  there.  1833,  April  5,  aged  102  years,  {'h.' Elizabeth,  b.  1755,  Aug.  24. 
Joseph,  b.  1757.  May  1.  Caleb,  b.  17o9.  April  3.  James,  b.  1761.  April  12. 
Benjamin,  b.  1763.  June  27.  John.  b.  1765,  May  24.  Thomas,  b.  1769, 
Dec.  28.     Abel,  b.  1773,  July  17. 
 - 420 - 
FARMER.  49 
FARMER.  1.  Edward.  Our  Record  mentions  the  death  of  "Mrs. 
Isabell  Wizsell,  21.  08.  1686,"  and  John  Farmer  has  added  this  '*Xote: 
Mrs.  Isabella  Wiswall.  above  mentioned,  was  wife  of  John  Farmer,  of 
Ausley.  in  the  county  of  Warwickshii'e.  and  came  to  this  country  with 
some  of  her  children,  after  his  death,  whicli  occurred  prior  to  1669. 
It  appears  from  original  papers,  that  she  was  sister  to  Rev.  Thomas 
Mustou.  of  Wykin.  and  afterwards,  of  Brinklow.  in  England.  She 
m.  Mr.  Thomas  Wis  wall,  whence  she  acquired  the  name.'"  Mr.  AViswall 
was  ordained  ruling  elder,  with  John  Eliot,  jun.,  teacher  of  the  church  in 
Newton,  at  its  organization.  1604,  July  20 ;  
d.  1683.  Dec.  6. 
Mr.  Farmer  came  to  Billerica  prob.  in  1671.  as  the  birth  of  his  son, 
John,  is  recorded  Aug.  19.  of  that  year.  The  eminent  antiquar}^  doubts 
this  inference,  but  if  lie  is  correct  in  affirming  an  older  sister  Sarah,  it 
Avould  seem  that  Danforth  would  have  been  as  likely  to  record  her  birth, 
as  that  of  John,  if  the  latter  did  not  occur  in  the  town.  Mr.  Farmer  was 
accepted  as  a  citizen  and  granted  a  five  acre  privilege,  1672-3.  March  24. 
(See  Records.  Vol.  I,  p.  107).  His  house-lot  was  cm  the  east  side  of  Long 
street,  extending  north  to  tlie  ■'corner,'"  and  remained  in  possession  of  the 
family  until  a  recent  date.  The  house  was  a  garrison,  and  an  interesting 
incident  is  recorded  in  the  chapter  on  Indian  experiences.  Mr.  Farmer  cl. 
1727.  Mav  27,  aged  about  87;  his  wife,  Mary,  d.  1719,  March  26,  aged  77. 
Ch.  Saralu  b.  about  1669;  m.  Thomas  Pollard.  1.  John,  2,  b.  1671. 
Aug.  19.  Edward,  3,  b.  1673-4.  March  22.  Mary,  b.  1675.  Xov.  3 ;  m.  John 
Dean,  of  Woburn.  Barbery,  b.  in  AVoburn,  1677-8,  Jan.  26;  d.  1680-1, 
Feb.  1.  Elizabeth,  b.  1680,  May  17;  m.  1707,  May  29.  William  Green,  of 
Maiden,  the  son  of  William,  who  had  m.  2d,  Isabel,  the  sister  of  Edward 
Farmer,  who  m.  1st,  David  Wyman,  of  Woburn;  and  2d.  James  Blood,  of 
Concord;  d.  1736-7,  March  3.  aged  85.  Thomas,  4,  b.  1683,  June  8. 
Oliver,  5,  b.  1685-6,  Feb.  2. 
2.  John,  son  of  Edward.  1,  b.  1671,  Aug.  19;  m.  Abigail    ,  prob. 
dau.  of  Daniel  Shed,  2.  He  d.  1736.  Sept.  9,  and  his  widow  d.  in  Tewksbury. 
1754,  March  20.  aged  75.  Ch.  Dority,  b.  1700.  Dec.  7;  m.  Nathaniel 
Richardson,  {see  5).  Barhani,  b.  1701.  Dec.  20.  John,  6,  b.  1703,  Sept.  18. 
Daniel,  b.  1705,  Oct.  30;  lived  in  Groton.  1733-40.  Richard,  7,  b.  1706-7, 
Feb.  2.  Edward,  b.  1710,  Nov.  10.  Jacob,  b.  1713-4,  Jan.  16.  William, 
b.  1719,  Nov.  15. 
3.  Edward,  son  of  Edward,  i;  b.  1673-4.  March  22;  m.  Mary 
Richardson,  dau.  of  Thomas,  1.  She  d.  1746,  Mav  15;  he  d.  1752.  Dec.  12. 
Ch.  Marii,  b.  1706,  Dec.  27;  m.  William  Shed,  ll.  Andrew,  8,  b.  1709, 
March  27.     Elizabeth,  b.  1712.  March  27. 
4.  Thomas,  son  of  Edward.  1,  b.  1683.  June  8;  m.  Elizabeth  Hunt, 
dau.  of  Samuel.  1.  They  d.  in  HoUis  about  1767,  and  were  buried  in  the 
same  grave.  Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1712.  July  15.  Joseph,  b.  1713,  Nov.  6. 
Joseph,  (date  not  given,  and  prob.  the  i-epeated  name  is  an  error).  Susanna. 
Jonas,  h.  1719,  May  10.  Elizabeth,  h.  1722.  Aug.  29.  Joshua,  b.  1723, 
Dec.  18.     Samuel,  b.  1725,  April  10;  was  in  Louisburg  expedition. 
5.  Oliver,  son  of  Edward.  1,  b.  1685-6,  Feb.  2;  m.  1716-7,  Jan.  24. 
Abigail  Johnson,  dau.  of  Hon.  William,  of  W^oburn;  son  of  Capt. 
Edward  Jolmson.  Mr.  Farmer  lived  on  his  father's  farm,  where  he 
d.  1761,  Feb.  23.  His  widow  m.  1766,  May  27,  Capt.  James  Lane,  of 
Bedford;  d.  1773,  Feb.  25.  aged  75.  Ch.  Abigail,  b.  1717,  Dec.  22;  d.  Jan.  11. 
Abigail,  b.  1718-9,  Jan.  14;  in.  Jonathan  Richardson,  12.  3fary,h.  1721. 
Aug.  26;  m.  William  Baldwin.  6.  Sarah,  b.  1723,  Dec.  14;  m.  Edward 
Jewett,  of  Rowley;  d.  at  Berlin,  Mass..  1790.  Dec.  20.  She  had  10  ch. 
Betty  and  Rpberca,  b.  1726,  May  31.  Betty  in.  Zebadiah  Rogers,  10. 
Rebecca  m.  his  brother.  Samuel,  11.  O/i're?-,  9,  b.  1728,  July  31.  Isabell, 
b.  1731.  March  2;  m.  Benjamin  Warren;  d.  in  Hollis.  1793.  Dec.  26.  They 
had  0  ch.     Edward.  10,  b.  1733-4.  Feb.  24.     John.  11,  b.  1736.  Dec.  7. 
6.  John,  son  of  Jolm.  2,  b.  1703.  Sept.  18 ;  in.  1725,  April  27,  Hannah 
Woods,  of  Groton.     Cli.  Nathaniel,  b.  1725-6,  Jan.  29;  was  in  Lexington. 
 - 421 - 
50  FARMER. 
1748  ;  111.  ITo").  Maj'  28,  Hannah  Fessenden.  dau  of  Thomas  ;  
had  9  eh.  ;  
was 
■wounded.  1!)  April.  1775.     John.  h.  1727-8.  Jan.  22. 
7.  Richard,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  170G-7.'Feb.  2;  ni.  Martha    .     He 
lived  in  Tewksliurv  after  1740.  llis*  wife  d.  17.o9.  April  20.  Ch.  Dorothy. 
b.  17:^7.  Ainil  27.  'John.  b.  1740.  May  2.  David,  b.  1746,  Dee.  4.  Martha. 
b.  1748.  June  10.  lUchard.  1).  1750,  July  30.  Ahnjuil.  b.  1752.  Aug.  4;  d. 
Dornthij.  b.  175().  Avig.  29.     Dolly,  b.  175*8.  Aug.  31. 
8.  Andrew,  sou  of  EdA\ard.  3,  b.  1709.  March  27;  in.  I>iuey     . 
She  d.  1747.  Aug.  17;  he  in.  Kebeeea    .     He  d.  1758.  Aug.  4.     Shed. 
1802.  Sept.  28.  Ch.  Liiry.  h.  17.36.  Sei)t.  8;  in.  Jolni  Whiting.  9.  Maru. 
h.  1738.  Get.  8;  m.  1768,  April  21.  Nathaniel  Jaquith.  of  "Wiliningtoii. 
Dorothy.  1).  1740.  July  27;  m.  Simon  Crosby.  19.  Andrew,  b.  1742,  Aug.  15. 
Abii/ail.  b.  1744.  May  1.  John.  h.  1746.  April  30.  Elisabeth,  b.  1747. 
Aug.  10;  d.  1773.  :\[ay  30.  Joseph.  12,  b.  1752.  Julv  20.  Edward.  13, 
1).  1855.  Dee.  14. 
9.  Oliver,  son  of  Oliver.  5,  b.  1728.  July  31  ;  m.  1757.  April  5.  Kachel 
Shed,  dau.  of  .John,  of  Tepjierell.  She  d.  1764.  Sept.  23.  aged  38.  He  m. 
1766,  July  3,  Hannah  Abbot,  dau.  of  Jeremiah.  5.  He  d.  1814.  Feb.  24; 
she  d.  1819,  Sept.  13.  Ch.  Bachtl.  b.  1758,  April  29;  m.  1779.  Sept.  28. 
Nicholas  French,  who  d.  at  Merriniac.  1823.  July  21.  Oliver.  14,  b.  1760, 
June  12.  John^  b.  1762,  Dec.  1 ;  m.  1788.  Jan.  24,  Lydia  Richardson, 
dau.  of  Josiah.  of  Chelmsford,  whei-e  he  lived  till  1803;  all  his  ch.  were 
b.  there.  He  then  lived,  1803-6.  in  Lyndeboro.  and  after,  in  Merrimack, 
till  his  death.  1814.  Nov.  7.  Of  his  five  ch..  the  oldest  was  John.  b.  1769, 
June  12;  d.  at  Concord.  N.  H..  1838.  Aug.  13.  He  was  the  eminent  New 
England  Genealogist  and  author  of  the  ••Historical  Memoir  of  Bill  erica." 
published  in  1816.  Hannah,  b.  1767.  Sept.  17;  m.  William  Rogers,  1(>,  her 
cousin.  Rebecca,  b.  1768,  Nov.  19;  d.  1792,  Jan.  8.  A  poem,  on  her  death, 
was  written  by  Dr.  Timothy  Danforth.     Jeremiah.  15,  b.  1771,  Aj^ril  10. 
10.  Edward,  son  of  Oliver.  5,  b.  173.3-4.  Feb.  24;  in.  1759,  Nov.  29, 
Sarah  Brown,  dau.  of  Sanmel,  7.  He  d.  1804,  Aug.  4;  his  widow.  1811, 
Aug.  19.  He  was  a  Representative  and  a  soldier  in  the  Revolution, 
connnanding  a  partv  of  militia  at  the  capture  of  Burgoyne.  Ch.  Edward.  16, 
b.  1760,  Dec.  1.  Sarah  b.  1763.  March  6;  d.  1766.  Jan.  28.  Jonathan.  17, 
b.  1765,  May  28.  Sarah,  b.  1767,  Oct.  31 ;  m.  Reuben  Baldwin.  18.  Jesse, 
b.  1770,  Oct.  18;  m.  1803.  July  26,  Margaret  Franksford;  d.  in  Boston, 
1815,  Feb.  6.  He  had  ch.  Margaret,  Harriet,  Henry,  Jesse,  b.  1809.  Nov.  9, 
now  in  business  on  Merrimack  street,  Boston;  William  S..  George  W.  and 
Catlierine  S. 
11.  Jolin,  son  of  Oliver.  5,  b.  1736,  Dec.  7;  m.  1764,  Jan.  5,  Hannah 
Davis,  dau.  of  Dea.  Joshua,  2.  She  d.  1787,  Feb.  12,  and  he  m.  1789, 
March  18,  Mrs.  Sarah  (Russell)  Adams,  of  Dracut.  Lieut.  John  Farmer, 
d.  1806,  Jan.  9.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1764.  Sept.  26;  m.  Samuel  Hopkins, 
of  Wilmington,  (seeS).  Rebecca,  b.  1766,  Dec.  2;  d.  1788.  May  29. 
Abigail,  b.  1768,  Dec.  22;  m.  Reuben  French.  27.  Pally,  b.  1775,  Jan.  14; 
m.  1798,  March  8,  David  Rogers,  of  Tewksbury.  John,  b.  1776,  Dec.  4; 
d.  1778,  Sept.  1.  lAicy.  b.  1780,  Oct.  4;  m.  Jeremiah  Allen,  7.  John^ 
b.  1791,  Dee.  11;  m.  Susan  Gerrish.  dau.  of  Dea.  Moses,  of  Boscawen, 
N.  H.,  and  lived  in  that  town;  was  Lieut  .-Colonel,  of  New  Hampshire 
Militia.     Hannah,  bap.  1794.  Dec.  7. 
12.  Josepli,  son  of  Andrew,  8,  b,  1752.  July  20;  in.  1778,  Jan.  8, 
Elizabeth  Baklwin,  dau.  of  Samuel.  11.  She  d.  1781.  March  12 ;  
he  m.  1782, 
April  30,  Dorcas  Frencli.  Ch.  Samuel  Baldicin.  b.  1778,  Nov.  10.  Joseph. 
b.  1781,  March  2.     John,  b.  1782,  Nov.  27. 
13.  Edward,  son  of  Andrew,  8,  b.  17.55,  Dec.  14;  m.  1783.  March  25, 
Hannah  Shed,  dau.  of  Samuel,  14.  Ch.  Cyrns.  b.  1791.  Jan.  31;  m.  1813, 
Dec.  5,  Margaret  Tufts  Richardson,  dau.  of  Asa,  19,  and  d.  1814,  April  14. 
His  widow  in.  Michael  Crosby,  38. 
14.  Oliver,  son  of  Oliver,  9,  b.  1760.  June  12;  in.  1786.  Nov.  30, 
Hannah  Sprake,  dau.  of  Nicholas,  5.     He  d.  1839.  May  9.      Ch.   Oliver, 
 - 422 - 
FARMER— FASSETT.  51 
b.  1788,  May  12 ;  in.  Mary  Emerson,  and  lived  in  Milford,  N.  H.  Had 
ch.  Oliver,  Mary  and  Joseph,  and  d.  1868,  May  16.  in  Billerica.  Asa,  18, 
lb.  1793,  Dec.  IS.  Hannah,  b.  1795.  May  17;  m.'  Nathan  Abbot,  10.  Zadock, 
b.  1796.  Oct.  28 ;  
lived  in  Pelhani,  Hudson,  Merriniac,  and  Amherst,  N.  H. ; 
m.  widow  Allen  Wilson,  bv  whom  he  had  10  ch.  He  d.  1877,  July  18. 
Rebecca,  b.  1798.  March  30';  d,  1850,  Jan.  25.  Rachel,  b.  1804,  Sept.  13; 
m.  Israel  A.  Colson. 
15.  Jeremiah,  son  of  Oliver,  9,.b.  1771.  April  10;  ni.  1816,  Oct.  13, 
Clarissa  Foster,  dan.  of  Timothy,  11.  He  d.  1836,  March  2.  and  she 
d.  1873,  Feb.  20.  Ch.  Sarah  Clarissa,  b.  1818,  Feb.  27;  m.  Dr.  Henry 
Blanehard.  {see  H).     Timothy  Foster.  19,  b.  1821,  Aug.  10. 
16.  Edward,  son  of  Edward,  10,  b.  1760,  Dec.  1 ;  m.  1781,  March  25, 
Rizpah  Baldwin,  dan.  of  Benjamin,  12.  She  d.  1791,  July  29,  and  he  m. 
1793,  Sept.  8.  Elizabeth  Brown,  of  Concord.  He  d.  1802,  Aug.  23. 
Ch.  John,  b.  1786,  July  27;  d.  1808,  March  6.  Bettif,  b..  1795,  June  20. 
Edward  and  Rizpah,  h.  1795,  Sept.  26.  [So  the  Record,  perhaps  the 
previous  year,  is  wrong].  Edward  m.,  but  no  record  of  family;  he  d.  1851, 
March  ll".     Jacob  Brown,  b.  1801,  Oct.  30. 
17.  Jonathan,  son  ot  Edward.  10,  b.  1765.  May  28;  m.  Betty    . 
He  d.  at  Bow,  N.  H.,  1798.  Oct.  11.  Ch.  Jonathan,  b.  1788,  May  5 ;  
m.  1821, 
Aug.  12,  Caroline  Leach,  of  Charlestown.  Betty,  b.  1790,  May  21 ;  
m.  1811, 
Aug.  11,  Caleb  Pearson,  of  Tyngsboro".  Susanna,  b.  1792.  Aug.  26. 
Thomas  Mears.  b.  1794.  Dec.  4. 
18.  Asa,  son  of  Oliver.  14,  b.  1793,  Dec.  13 ;  m.  Lydia  Wilson.  He 
d.  1865,  Oct.  14.     Ch.  Asa,  Lyclia. 
19.  Timothy  Foster,  son  of  Jeremiah,  15,  b.  1824,  Aug.  10;  m.  1862, 
Julj^  24.  Jane  Leavitt,  who  was  b.  in  Clinton.  Me..  1838,  Feb.  2.  He 
d.  1871.  May  27.  Ch.  Nelly  Jane,  b.  1863,  July  28.  Mary  Eliza,  b.  1864, 
Nov.  21.     John  Edward,  b.  1867,  Nov.  7. 
20.  Jotham,  son  of  Simeon,  (or  ?  
Elijah.)  of  Chelmsford,  m.  1794, 
June  24,  Polly  Gloyd,  H(^  d.  1846,  Feb.  24.  aged  76.  Ch.  Benjamin, 
b.  1795,  Oct.  16;  m.  1827.  Nov.  8,  Lydia  Richardson  Mears;  no  ch.  They 
live  at  the  Davis  place,  north  of  Fox  hill.  Mary  m.  Aaron  Maynard. 
John  went  to  Vermont.  Joseph,  21.  William  m.  1841.  Dec.  19,  Abigail 
W.  Lyman.  He  was  Idlled  by  a  horse.  Sarah  m.  Thomas  Fasho.  Phebe. 
unmarried.  Eliza  m.  1826,  May  28,  Paul  Holt.  Roxana  m.  Reed,  of 
Burlington. 
21.  Joseph,  son  of  Jotham,  20,  m.  1830,  Dec.  25,  Mary  Ann 
Champney.  Ch.  George,  b.  1833.  Dec.  5.  Adelaide,  b.  1839,  Sept.  15. 
Albert  Edwin,  h.  1841,  Sept.  30.      Frederic  Eugene,  b.  1843,  July  16. 
22.  Hannah  m.  1786,  July  17,  Samuel  Hopkins,  of  Wilmington;  to 
Avhat  familv  she  belonged  does  not  appear. 
FARNSWORTH,  Silas,  of  Harvard,  m.  1754,  Sept.  17,  Elizabeth 
Bowers. 
FARNHAM,  Deborah,  dau.  of  Abigail,  was  bap.  1771,  Feb.  10. 
FASSETT.  1.  Patrick,  was  from  Maiden,  '"accepted  inhabitant 
•in  our  towne,"  1679,  June  2.     He  bought  of  Timothy  Brooks,  part  of  the 
Oakes'  farm,  near  old  Concord  line  and  Shawshin  river.     He  m.  Sai-ali    ; 
d.  1713,  Nov.  7,  and  his  widow  m.  1716.  April  23,  Thomas  Bateman, 
of  Concord.  Ch.  Joseph,  b.  (in  Maiden.)  1672,  Oct.  Probably  John,  who 
m.  1697.  March  31.  Mary  Hill,  dau.  of  Jonathan.  4,  and  was  the  lirst 
treasurer  of  Bedford.  He  lived  in  the  Concord  part  of  Bedford.  Will 
proved.  1736,  May  23.  Samuel,  b.  1679,  May  7.  The  lirst  town  treasurer 
of  Westford.  He  m.  1705-6.  Jan.  1,  Lydia  Parker,  Deborah,  b.  1680-1, 
Feb.  15.  3Iary,  b.  1683,  March  31;  m.  Job  Lane.  6.  Peter.  '2,  h.  1685, 
Aug.  25.     Josia,  3,  b.  1687.  Dec.  1.     Benjamin,  b.  1690.  Julv  7. 
"2.  Peter,  son  of  Patrick,  1,  b.  1685,  Aug.  25;  m.  1710-1,  Feb.  1, 
Elizabeth  Manning,  dau.  of  Sanuiel.  1.  He  d.  the  next  May,  16,  and  she 
m.  Jonathan  Danforth,  5.     Ch.  Peter,  b.  1711,  Nov.  11. 
 - 423 - 
62  FAULKNER— FISHER. 
3.     Josiah,  son  of  Patrick.  1,  b.  1687,  Dec.  1;  ni,  Sarah    .    His 
widow's  name  was  Esther.  He  lived  east  of  Kev.  N.  Bowes,  on 
Lexington  street.  His  son.  Josiah.  gave  bonds,  as  administrator  of  estate, 
1740,  March  IG.  Ch.  Josinh,  b.  1714.  July  11.  Sarah,  b.  1716,  April  26. 
Mary,  b.  1718,  Sept.  5;  d.  1720,  May  8.  John,  b.  1720.  April  1.  He  settled 
in  Hardwick,  and  became  a  member  of  the  Separatist  Church.  This 
church  was  practically  the  nucleus  of  the  settlement  of  Bennington,  Vt., 
in  1761,  and  John  Fassett,  clerk  and  deacon,  was  a  leading  man  in  that 
company  of  wise  and  brave  pioneers  who  resisted  the  encroachments  of 
New  York,  and  laid  the  foundations  of  Vermont,  making  the  name  of 
''Green  Mountain  Boys,"  famous.  The  early  town  nieetino's  were  held  at 
his  tavern.  He  was  Captain  of  the  first  militia  company  ni  1764;  one  of 
the  flrst  town  Kepresentatives.  He  d.  1794,  Aug.  12.  His  dau.  Sarah  m. 
Dr.  Jonas  Fay,  one  of  the  Vermont  leaders  ;  his  son,  John,  was  Captain. 
Representative,  from  Arlington,  member  of  the  Council,  and  Judge  of  the 
Supreme  Court,  1778-86.  Benjamin,  b.  1721-2,  Jan.  11.  Mary,  b.  1723, 
Oct.  17.  Susanna,  b.  1725.  March  29.  Bette,  b.  1727,  May  3.  Amos,  b. 
1728.  Aug.  8.  Benjamin.  John,  Josiah  and  Peter  Fassett  were  on  Bedford 
tax-list  in  1748.  • 
FAULKNER.  1.  Francis,  was  the  son  of  Col.  Francis,  of  Acton,  a 
leading  citizen  there  and  a  good  soldier  in  the  Revolution.  He  was  a 
descendant  of  Francis,  son  of  Edmund,  one  of  the  tirst  settlers  of  Andover. 
Our  Francis,  1,  came  to  Billerica.  1811.  April  10,  and  began  the  manufacture 
of  woolen  goods,  and  carding,  coloring,  and  dressing  cloths.  He  m. 
Elizabeth  Jones,  of  Concord,  and  Ann  Robbins,  of  Watertown;  d.  1843, 
Feb.  12,  aged  82.  Ch.  Charlps,  b.  1785,  Sept.  8;  d.  1809,  Aug.  15.  Francis, 
b.  1788,  Feb.  28;  d.  1842.  Nov.  29.  Ann.  b.  1799.  Sept.  23;  m.  Calvin 
Rogers.  21.  James  Bobbins,  2,  b.  1801.  April  14.  Dici(iht  F.,  b.  1803, 
Jan.  21;  a  merchant  in  Boston.  William  E.,  b.  1805,  April  7;  d.  1861, 
Sept.  1.  Lois.  b.  1807.  Julv  22.  Li/dia  H..  b.  1809.  May  10;  d.  1867, 
June  20.  Charhs,  b.  1811,  Oct.  10;  of  the  firm  of  Faulkner,'  Page  &  Co., 
merchants  in  Boston.  Luther  Winthrop,  3,  b.  1815,  April  2.  IViiithrop, 
b.  1817.  June  5 ;  
is  a  merchant  in  Grafton.  Georqe,  b.  1819.  Julv  14 ;  grad. 
H.  C,  1844,  and  Medical  College.  1847;  m.  1847.  Aug.  25, 'Mary  Ann 
Spalding,  dau.  of  Dea.  Amos,  7,  and  resides  at  Jamaica  Plain.  Boston. 
2.  James  Robbins,  son  of  Francis,  1,  b.  1801,  April  14;  m.  1825, 
Nov.  22,  Catherine  Rogers,  dau.  of  Josiah,  14.  He  continued  the 
manufacturing  business  at  North  Billerica  ;  was  long  a  Trustee  and 
Treasurer  of  the  Howe  school;  d.  1877,  Jan.  7.  Ch.  Catherine  Rogers, 
b.  1827,  July  28;  m.  George  H.  Preston.  Ann  Bobbins,  b.  1829.  Julv  21. 
James,  4,  b.  1831.  April  18.  Francis,  b.  1833,  Oct.  8;  d.  1834,  Sept.  19. 
Emily  Francis,  b.  1835.  Mav  30.  Abba  Louisa,  b.  1837,  March  5.  Henrii, 
b.  1839.  Sept.  19;  m.  1863,  Oct.  29.  Victoria  G.  Wheat:  d.  in  Boston 
1868.  June  12.     She  d.  1876,  Feb.  15.     Mam  Elizabeth,  b.  1844.  Julv  3. 
3.  Luther  Winthrop,  son  of  Francis.  1,  b.  1815,  April  2;  m.  1842. 
Oct.  13,  Martha  P.  Merriam,  of  Concord.  He  lives  on  the  north  corner  of 
Andover  and  Long  streets,  and  is  proprietor  of  the  Faulkner  mills  in 
Lowell.  Ch.  Francis  S.,  b.  1843,  July  8 ;  
d.  Sept.  11.  Frederic,  b.  1844, 
July  29;  m.  1871.  Oct.  26,  Enuna  S.  Wheeler,  of  Lowell,  where  he  lives. 
Horace  William,  b.  1847,  Dec.  28.  L^abella,  b.  1850.  April  21  ;  m.  Capt. 
Charles  A.  Ranlett.  Bichard  IL,  b.  1851,  June  21;  Supt.  Faulkner  mills. 
North  Billerica.  John,  b.  in  Concord.  N.  H.,  1855,  March  14;  m.  1880, 
Feb.  3,  Evelyn  Atwood,  of  Lowell.  Amy  Frescott,  b.  1858.  July  5.  Harry 
Winthrop,  b."l860.  Oct.  3;  a  medical  student  in  Boston. 
4.  James,  son  of  James  R..  2,  b.  1831.  April  18;  m.  1852.  Aug.  10, 
Frances  A.  Wilson,  dau.  of  Daniel.  9.  He  d.  1865.  Nov.  13;  she  m.  1879, 
Edwin  Howard,  of  Boston.     Ch.  James  N.,  b.  1853,  Aug.  15. 
FISHER,  -'Old  Stephen,  dyed  26.  10">,  82."  The  town  was  charged, 
1668,  Nov.  19,  £5  for  his  "dyet."  and  he  was,  perhaps,  the  earliest  recipient 
of  the  town's  care.  Of  his  history  and  claim,  nothing  is  known.  There 
was  a  Stephen  Fisher  early  at  Reading. 
 - 424 - 
 - 425 - 
 - 426 - 
 - 427 - 
 - 428 - 
FITCH— FLETCHER.  53 
FITCH.  1.  ^inuel,  wa?  ihe  only  son  of  Samuel,  of  Eeading.  His 
father  was  son  of  Zethary.  and  b.  1645.  Marvh  6.  Zetharr's  A\-ilT.  1662. 
names  other  eh..  Joseph.  Benjamin.  John.  Jeremiah.  Thomas  and  Sarah. 
wife  ot  John  Wesson,  of  Salem.  Samuel  m.  Sarah  Lane.  dau.  of  Job.  1. 
She  d.  1679.  Oet.  2.  His  will  bears  date.  16S4.  May  10.  and  names  wife 
Rebecca  and  son  Samuel.  The  latter  received  from  his  grandfather.  Job 
Lane,  ont^fourth  part  of  the  Winthrop  farm.  His  portion  was  in  two 
parts  :  one  in  the  nonh-east.  comer  of  the  farm,  where  his  house  stood,  on 
tlie  west  side  of  the  road,  a  half  mile  south  of  the  present  Bedford  line. 
and  the  other,  a  strip  extending  from  Concord  river,  eastward,  nearly  to 
Bedford  villaire.  along  Concord  old  line.  He  ni.  1695-6.  March  20. 
Elizabeth  Walker,   dau.    of  Joseph.   1.       She  d.   1716.   Xov.   26:  he  m. 
Eunice    .  who  survivetl  him.     He  was  the  first  town-clerk,  and  one  of 
the   first   selectmen   of  Bedford.    1729.      He  d.  1742.  April  4.      Ch.  Sarah. 
b.  1696.   Dec.   2o:   d.    Feb.  4.       Sarah,  b.  169S.  May  4:   m.     Hmson. 
Stmuel.  b.  1699-1700.  Feb.  14;  in.  1732.  April  24.  Joanna  Keyes.  the  widow 
of  iliomas  Kidder,  of  Westford.  where  he  lived  :ind  d.  1775.  Jan.  9.  They 
had  ch.  Samuel.^  b.  1733.  Aug.  2S.  Joanna.-  b.  1735.  Jan.  29.  Lvdia," 
b.  1737.  Manh  13.  Joseph,  i,  b.  1702.  Oct.  22.  Bent':inun.  3,  b.  1703. 
July  30.  John.  b.  1707-S.  Feb.  12.  JeremiaA.  4,  ^birth  not  recorded,  but 
named  in  his  father's  will,  and  had  the  homestead^.  Zechariah.  5.  b.  1712. 
Feb.  13.     Elizabeth,  h.  171S.  Sept.  22:  ra.      Mead. 
2.  Joseph,  son  of  Samuel.  1,  b.  1702.  Ocfc  22:  m.  1731.  Jan.  31.  Sarah 
Grimes.      She  d.  1749-50.  Jan.  22:  he  m.  Eachel    .     He  d.  1769.  Feb.  7. 
and  his  widow  m.  John  Paige.  The  Fitch  family  were  all  in  the 
Bedford  part  of  the  towii.  Ch.  SaraA.  b.  1732.  March  25:  m.  Josiah 
Crosby,  {^see  li).  Joseph,  b.  1734.  July  14:  d.  1736.  Sept.  21.  JHuUv.  b.  1737. 
Oct.  i6.  Susanna,  b.  1743.  Julv  26.  Ji^sep^h.  b.  1746.  Oct.  2.  Buth. 
b.  1749.  Oct.  2.     Thaddeus.  h.  175o.  March  23. 
3.  Benjamin,  son  of  Samuel.  1,  b.  1703.  July  30:  m.  Meriam    . 
He  owned  the  mill  on  Shawshin  river,  near  the  falls.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1733. 
Jan.  10.  Mfham.  b.  1734-5.  Jan.  23:  m.  Timothv  Jaquith.  o.  Bcntamin. 
b.  1736-7.  Jan.  6.  Loir^.i.  b.  1740.  Oi^t.  31.  Darid^  b.  1743.  Mav  20.  Ladia. 
b.  1745.  Manh  21.  Eunice,  b.  1747.  July  26.  Xathon,  b.  174^.  Jan.  27. 
Jsaac.4. b.  1752.  May  IS.     Xalhan.  b.  1755."  May  13. 
Jeremiah,  son  of  Samuel.  1,  m.  173o-6.  Feb.  3.  Elizabeth,  dau.  of 
Job  Line.  6.  Ch.  5a»n/f7.  b.  1736.  Xov.  9.  :E}izabeth.h.  17SS.  J>ec.  '24. 
Jeremiah,  b.  1742.  Sept.  25.  John.  b.  1745.  Auff.  14.  Elisabeth,  b.  1747-S. 
Feb.  29 :  d.  1750.  Oct.  S.  Patie.  b.  175<i.  Julv  14".  Elisabeth,  b.  1752.  Aug.  7 : 
d.  1S25.  March  1.     J/c«st^«.  b.  1755.  March  3. 
o.    Zechariah.  son  of  S;imuel.  1.  b.  1712.  Feb.  13:  in.  Elizabeth    . 
Ch.  Z'chariuh.  b.  1734.  April  1.  WiUiar,}.  b.  1735-6.  Feb.  19.  Elisabeth. 
b.  173S-9.  Jan.  6.  Jmas.  b.  1740-1.  Feb.  5.  Et^neser,  b.  1743.  Sept.  4. 
Esther,  b.  1745.  Sept.  12.     Lucp  ra.  Joseph  Hill.  21. 
6.     David,  sou  of  David,  of  Bedford,  m.  Betsey    .    Betsev.  b.  1S26. 
June  26.  Emilp.  b.  1S27.  Dec.  26.  Darid.  b.'lS32.  March  3.  [See 
Lexinaton  Gen.  Keff..  p.  27S".  Ann.  b.  1S34.  Sept.  15.  John.  b.  1S36. 
June  17.       Sarah,  b.  1S;^S.  Julv  6.     Abel.  b.  1S40.  Mav  10. 
FITZPATRICK,  William.  "and  wife  Catherine."  Ch.  Ellen,  b.  in 
Ireland.  1S26.  March  5.  Juhn.  b.  1S27.  Xov.  IS:  d.  1S2S.  Oct.  12.  Edxrard, 
b.  1S30.  Oct.  7:  d.  1S39.  Aug.  7.  Mary  Ann.  b.  1S31.  Xov.  22.  Catherine. 
b.  1S33.  March  3:  d.  1S35.  Mav  13.  James,  b.  1S35.  March  1.  Margaret. 
b.  1S36.  June  12.  Catherine,  b.  1S3S.  April  19.  Elizabeth,  b.  1S39.  June  3. 
Sarah,  b.  1S40.  Xov.  S.  Charles  Edtcard.  b.  1S42.  July  4.  Joanna,  b.  1S15. 
April  16. 
FLETCHER.  1.  Jacob,  m.  m  Westford.  1746.  Ruth  Trull.  Xame 
disappears  from  tax-list.  17.^3.  Ch.  Buth.  Olive,  b.  1749.  Jan.  10.  Bebecca. 
b.  in  Westford.  1754. 
2.     Samuel.     Ch.  Sybil,  bap.  176S,  Mav  S.     Phebe.  bap.  1775.  Julv  9. 
 - 429 - 
54  FLETCHER  —  FOSTER. 
3.  James,  son  of  Jonas,  of  Westford.  m.  18.33,  Dec.  22,  Louisa 
Chanipney.  He  lives  on  the  east  road,  in  tlie  oldest  house  still  inhabited 
in  town,  whieli  was,  perhaps,  the  ••French"  garrison  of  1G75.  Ch.  James 
Hcnrii.  b.  1834.  Nov.  2.  Charles  Newton.  1).  1836,  June  23.  in  Tyngsboro'. 
John  Edwards,  b.  1838,  Aug.  22;  d.  1839,  Jan.  5.  Edrmrd  Harrison,  b.  1840, 
May  21.  John  Jrvin(f.  h.  1842,  May  19;  ni.  Harriet  Maria  Carter,  dau.  of 
George;  lives  near  Shawshin  river.  'Emma  Louisa,  b.  1843.  Sept.  1. 
Marietta,  b.  1845.  Nov.  4.     Caroline  Elizabeth,  h.  1848.  June  3. 
FOSTER.  1.  Thomas,  Sergt.,  was  from  Braintree.  He  was, 
perliaps,  the  same  Thomas  who  was  at  Weymouth,  and  father  of  Dr. 
Tlionias.  of  Eoxburj^,  whose  widow  m.  Peter  Bracket,  2.  He  received, 
l(w9,  June,  a  grant  of  an  eight  acre  lot.  His  home  lot  was  "fifty  acres," 
his  liouse  lot  being  part  of  it.  lying  on  y"  east  end  of  Bare  liill,  bounded 
by  Shawshin  roail.  on  the  west,  ninety  and  foure  pole ;  
by  William  Handet. 
on  tlie  nortli.  one  hundred  and  two  poles ;  by  y^'  comaus,  east,  ninety  pole ; 
by  a  highway  on  the  south-east,  eightj'-six  pole."  Tliis  place  was  near 
Mr.  McKay's!  He  d.  1()S4,  April  20,  and  his  widow,  Elizabeth.  l(J94-5, 
Jan.  29.  Ch..  perhai)S  Thomas,  b.  1640,  Aug.  18,  a  plij^sician  of  Eoxbury 
and  Cambridge,  who  m.  Sarah  Parlier.  dau.  of  Robert.  He  d.  1679, 
Sept.  16 ;  
his  w  idow  m.  Peter  Bracket.     Perliaps  Sarah,  who  m.  Samuel 
Kemp.     Perhaps  John,  b.    1642,    Oct.    7,    of  Manstield.     Elizabeth.     m. 
James  Frost.  2.    E.rperience    ,  nv.  Joseph  French.  4,     Perliaps  Increase. 
Hopestill.  b.  1648,  March  26;  lived  in  Woburn.  Joseph.  2,  b.  1650,  March  28. 
Perliaps  Jonathan,  3.  The  will  of  Sergt.  Foster  names  only  son  Joseph 
and  James  Frost,  son-in-law.  He  certainly  had  two  other  ch..  Experience 
and  Hopestill,  and  the  absence  of  other  names  is  not,  therefore,  proof  that 
the  above  were  not  his  children. 
2.  Joseph,  son  of  Thomas,  1,  b.  1650.  March  28;  m.  1672,  Dec.  11. 
Alee  Gorton,  dau.  of  John,  of  Eoxbury.  She  d.  1712.  INIay  17.  aged  60.  and 
he  111.  Margaret  Brown,  of  Sudbury,  who  d.  1717-8.  March  22,  and 
he  111.  3d.  Eebecca,  widow  of  Jonathan  Danforth,  2,  who  d.  1754, 
March  25,  aged  93.  Dea.  Joseph  d.  1721,  Dec.  4.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1673, 
Oct.  7.  J^ospi>/i.  b.  1678,  July  15 ;  
d.  r/umr/s,  4,  b.  1680-1.  Feb.  11.  Sarah, 
b.  1683,  Aug.  23 ;  
d.  Sept.  5.     John,  b.  1685.  May  12 ;  
d.  Nov.  12. 
3.  Jonathan,     perhaps     son     of     Thomas.     1,     m.     Abigail    . 
Ch.  Jonathan,  b.  1693,  June  26. 
4.  Thomas,  son  of  Joseph.  2,  b.  1680-1,  Feb.  11 ;  m.  Hepsibah    . 
Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1706,  Oct.  17.  John,  5,  b.  1707-8,  Jan.  11.  Sarah,  b.  1709, 
June  30;  m.  David  Crosby,  11.  Joseph,  b.  1711.  April  8.  Hannah,  b.  1716, 
Sept.  25.     Obadiah.  b.  1721-2,  March  17. 
5.  John,   son  of  Thomas,   4,   b.   1707-8,  Jan.  11;  m.  Hannah    -. 
His  name  disappears  from  tax-list.  1734.  perhaps  in  Tewksbuiy. 
Ch.  Nathaniel,  b.  1730,  Nov.  11.  Parker,  b.  1731-2,  March  6.  John,  b.  1733, 
Aug.  28. 
6.  Henry.  It  does  not  appear  whether  he  is  connected  with  the 
preceeding  or  following.  He  in.  1751.  June  12,  Agnes  Henry,  prob.  sister 
of  John.  Ch.  John,  b.  1752,  July  31 ;  m.  1777.  Oct.  9,  'Sally  Tweed, 
of  Woburn.  Jane.  b.  1755,  June  14.  Smith,  b.  1757.  May  21.  Josiah., 
b.  1759,  Oct.  29.     Benjamin,  b.  1761,  Nov.  13.      Elizabeth,  b.  1769,  Aug.  28. 
7.  Isaac,  was  from  Ipswich,  son  of  Joseph-',  (Jacob^,  Reginalds)  m. 
1744,  Nov.  8,  Sarah  Brown,  prob.  dau.  of  John.  8.  His  will  is  dated  1783, 
Feb.  1,  and  proved  April  10.  Ch.  Isaac,  b.  1745-6,  March  8;  in.  1769, 
Nov.  9,  Lydia  Bacon,  dau.  of  Josiah,  7.  Jacob,  9,  b.  1747.  Dec.  20.  Sarah, 
b.  1749,  March  4;  d.  1750,  x\pril  4.  Joseph,  10,  b.  1750,  March  21.  Sarah, 
b.  1753,  May  29;  d.  before  1783.  John.  b.  1755.  Jmie  28.  Samuel,  b.  1758, 
March  31.     Abiijail,  b.  1761,  Feb.  21 ;  d.  before  1783. 
8.  Jacob,  brother  of  Isaac.  7,  b.  1726,  March  27;  m.  Sarah  Kimball, 
(l)ublished  1750.  Aug.  25).  His  will  proved,  1761,  Oct.  19.  Ch.  Sarah, 
b.  1752,  April  27;  d.  June  7.  Sarah,  b.  1753,  June  5;  m.  1774,  Dec.  12, 
John  Bell,  Charlestown.  Timothi/,  b.  1755,  July  19;  d.  1756.  Nov.  23. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1757,  Oct.  27;  d.  1758,  Jan.  12.     Timothy,  11,  b.  1759,  Nov.  4. 
 - 430 - 
FOSTER.  55 
9.  Jacob,  son  of  Isaac.  7,  b.  1745-G,  March  8;  in.  1771,  June  3, 
Hannah  Frost,  dau.  of  James,  11.  Ch.  Jacobs  b.  1772,  Feb.  20.  James, 
b.  1774.  July  6. 
10.  Joseph,  son  of  Isaac.  7,  b  1750,  March  21;  m.  1775.  Aug.  21, 
Sarah  Baldwin,  dau.  of  Benjamin.  12,  and  1810,  Feb.  6,  Lucy  Hill, 
widow  of  Joseph,  21.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1776,  Nov.  18.  Susanna,  b.  1778, 
Dec.  3.  James,  b.  1780,  April  II.  Anna,  b.  1781,  Aug.  15.  Isaac,  b.  1785, 
Mav  27. 
"11.  Timothy,  son  of  Jacob.  8,  b.  1759.  Nov.  4;  m.  1784,  May  16, 
Sally  Crosby,  dau.  of  Seth,  22.  He  d.  1815,  Jan.  21.  She  d.  1849,  Dec.  I. 
Ch.  Clarissa,  b.  1785,  April  11;  m.  Jeremiah  Farmer,  15* 
12.  Abial  m.  1788,  Nov.  23,  Sarah  Whiting,  dau.  of  Samuel,  10. 
Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1793,  May  14.     Merriam,  b.  1797,  March  2. 
13.  Joseph,  son  of  Joseph,  of  Ipswich,  who  was  brother  of  Isaac,  7, 
b.  1739.  Dec.  25;  m.  1765,  April  26,  Elizal)eth  Hilton,  of  Manchester.  His 
ch.  were  b.  in  Beverly,  but  he  d.  in  Billerica.  1802.  Dec.  15,  and  his  widow, 
1834.  July  19,  aged  86.-  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1766.  Feb.  5;  m.  James  Sumner. 
Joseph.  13i.  b.  1770,  April.  Hannah,  b.  1772,  March;  m.  Benjamin 
Daland.  Samuel.  14,  b.  1777.  April  26.  Dorcas,  b.  1779,  Aug.  5;  d.  1850, 
July  7.  Benjamin,  b.  1783,  Sept.;  m.  Martha  Shed,  (.se*^  22),  and  lived  in 
Lancester.     j(>7ui,  b.  1785.  Dec.  ;  
d.  1841,  Aug.  9.      Levi.  15,  b.  1788,  July. 
13d.  Joseph,  son  of  Joseph,  13,  b.  1770,  April;  m.  Lucy  liarkum; 
he  d.  1815.  Nov.  21,  and  his  widow  m.  1816,  Sept.  23,  Jesse  Webster. 
Ch.  Joseph,  d.  ISlo,  Dec.  18.  aged  21.  Litctj.  bap.  1799.  Oct.  13.  Lncy, 
bap.  1803.  June  19.     Elviiia  Catherine. 
11.  Samuel,  son  of  Joseph.  13,  b.  1777.  April  26;  m.  1802,  Jan.  14, 
Anne  \Miituey.  dau.  of  Daniel  and  Sarah  Duren,  of  Stowe,  {see,  Durrent.  5). 
She  d.  1857.  April  13,  and  he  d.  Aug.  1.  Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1803,  Dec.  4; 
d.  1804,  Dec.  29.  Salhi,  b.  1805,  Nov.  9;  m.  1827,  Jan.  23,  James  Damon, 
Keading.  Elmira.  b.  1807,  Sept.  7;  d.  1809.  Feb.  18.  Dudley.  16,  b.  1809, 
Nov.  15.  Edwin,  b.  1812.  Feb.  1;  m.  Ann  L.  Callender.  Daniel  Whitney, 
b.  1814.  March  23;  d.  1815.  June  6.  Elizabeth  Ann.  b.  1816,  March  22;  d. 
June  27.  Elisabeth  A)Ui.  I).  1817,  July  2:  unmarried.  Mary,  b.  1819, 
July  13;  m.  1843.  PVb.  23,  Edward  Mansfield;  d.  1846.  Oct.  14.  Joseph, 
b.  1821,  July  20;  m.  Lydia  A.  Dutton.  Jonathan,  b.  1823,  Jan.  1.  Sum)ier. 
b.  1829.  Jan'.  28;  m.  El'izalieth  Putnam. 
15.  Levi,  son  of  Joseph.  13,  b.  1788,  July;  m.  1815.  Aug.  27.  Cile 
Davis,  dau.  of  Timothy,  5.  He  lived  in  the  pait  of  Chelmsford  now 
Lowell,  for  st^'cral  years  ;  
later,  near  Fox  hill,  at  the  Holden  place.  He 
d.  1863,  June  15.  Ch.  Laura  m.  Henry  Blanchard,  of  Wilmhigton.  Celia 
m.  Amasa  Holden.  4.     Levi^  Thomas.  17.     John  d.  1851,  Dec.  14.  aged  23. 
10.  Dudley,  son  of  Samuel.  14,  b.  1809,  Nov.  15;  in.  1835,  May  21. 
liOuisa  Pollard,  dau.  of  AVilliam.  11.  He  lives  .near  the  Howe  school,  of 
which  he  has  been  trustee  from  the  first,  and  is  treasurer;  has  been  town 
clerk  and  ti-easurer  for  25  years;  is  a  member  of  the  Historical  Connnittee, 
and  renders  important  aid  "in  the  preparation  of  this  History.  Ch.  Francis 
Dudley,  h.  IS'M).  Aug.  30;  lives  at  North  Andover.  John  Howard,  b.  1844, 
March  9;  m.  and  is  a  merchant  in  Springfield. 
17.  Levi  Thomas,  sou  of  Levi.  15,  m.  1849,  May  24,  Mariah 
Elizabeth  Pdchardson,  dau.  of  John.  29.  He  d.  18.53.  Sept.  30.  aged  29, 
and  his  wido\\-  m.  1855.  Sept.  19,  Elbridge  Teel,  of  Medford.  Ch  Laura 
Maria,  b.  hi  Lawrence.  1850,  Aug.  27.  John  H..  b.  1853,  April  8;  d.  1877, 
July  5. 
18.  Moses,  of  Tewksbury.  m.  1782.  Feb.  13.  Sarah  Baldwin,  prob. 
widow  of  Benjamin.  12. 
19.  Joseph,  M.  D..  from  Canterbury,  N.  H.,  in.  1810.  Feb.  6,  Lucy 
Hill,   dau.   of  Joseph,  21 ;  d.   1810,  July  21,  aged  23 ;  she  d.  1869,  Oct,  30. 
FOX.     1.     Isaac  m.  1678,  July  18.  Abigail  Osban. 
2.  Abel    m.    Abigail    .      He    d.    before    1759;    she    m.    Thomas 
Danforth*  10.     Ch.  Abigail,  b.  1755,  July  5.     Edith  b.  1757,  May  22. 
3.  Joseph  is  on  tax-list.  1769-76. 
 - 431 - 
56  FRANKLIN  —  FRENCH. 
FRANKLIN,  John,  and  wife,  Euth.  Ch.  Butli,  b.  1708,  April  2. 
Joanna,  b.  1710,  June  21. 
'  FRENCH.  1.  William,  <>f  Cambntlge.  one  of  the  first  settlers  of  B. 
He  came  from  Englaiul  in  iu;55.  with  Harhikenden  and  ►Shepard.  In 
Hhawshin  he  bought  a  part  of  the  Dudley  farm  ;  
his  house  stood  near  the 
turnpike,  east  of  the  Bedford  road,  near  Kalph  HiU's,  who  calls  him 
•  
brother,'  in  his  will.  He  was  the  first  Kepreseutative  from  B.  in  1063-4  ; 
was   Lieutenant   and   a   leading   citizen   of  the   town.     He  m.  in  England, 
Elizabeth    ,  who  d.  1008.  March  31,  aged  02  or  04  years;  he  m.  1669, 
May  6.  Mary  Lathrop,  the  widow  of  Lieut.  John  Stearns,  1.  He  d.  1681, 
Nov.  20,  aged  77 ;  his  widow  m.  1687,  June  29,  Isaac  Mixer,  Watertown. 
Ch.  Elizabeth,   b.  about  1631;  m.      Ellis,  of  Dedham.     Mary.  b.  about 
1033.  John.  2,  b.  about  1035.  Sarah,  b.  1038,  March.  Jacob.  3,  b.  1639-40, 
Jan.  16.  Hannah,  b.  1641-2,  Feb.  2;  d.  June  20.  Hannah,  b.  about  1643; 
ni.  John  Bracket,  3.  Samuel,  b.  1645,  Dec.  3 ;  
d.  1040.  July  15.  Samuel,  birth 
not    recorded;   a  pioneer    in    Dunstable.      Mary,    b.    1670,    April  3;    ni. 
Nathaniel  Dunklee.     Sarah,  b.  1671.  Oct.  29;  ni.      Sharp,  who  d.  in  the 
military  service  and  she  m.  Joseph  Crosby.  3.  Abigail,  b.  1073,  April  14; 
d.  1074,  April  13.  Hannah,  b.  1676,  Jan.  25;  m.  1093,  Oct.  5,  John  Child, 
of  Watertown. 
2.  Johu,  son  of  William,  1,  b,  1635;  m.  1659,  June  21,  Abigail 
Coggan,  dau.  of  Henry,  of  Barnstable.  She  d.  1662,  April  5,  aged  about  24. 
He  m.  1662,  July  3,  Hannah  Burridge,  dau.  of  John,  of  Charlestown.  She 
d.  1607,  July  7'.  aged  23.  He  m.  1067-8,  Jan.  14,  Mary  Kogers,  dau.  of 
John,  1.  She  d.  1677,  June  16;  he  m.  1077-8,  Jan.  10,  Mary  Kittredge,  the 
widow  of  John.  1,  who  d.  1719,  Oct.  7.  He  d.  1712.  Oct.  He  lived  south 
of  Fox  hill,  on  the  east  road.  He  was  a  corperal  in  the  militia;  wounded 
by  the  Indians,  in  the  assault  at  Quaboag,  in  1675;  petitioning  for  relief, 
'*apoor,  wounded  man,"'  harrassed  by  the  constable,  soon  after.  He  was 
often  in  the  town's  service.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1663-4,  Jan.  20;  m.  John 
Kittredge,  2.  Abigail,  b.  1665.  Dec.  6;  m.  Benjamin  Parker,  6.  Mary, 
b.  1669-70,  March  4;  m.  Nathan  Shed,  6.  John,  5,  b.  1679,  May  15. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1681,  July  24;  ni.  1700,  Dec.  25,  Thomas  Abbot,  of  Andover. 
William,   b.    1083.   Nov.   20;  d.  1085,  April  21.     Sarah,  b.  1685,  Sept.  15; 
m.     Flint,   of  Charlestown,   and  Joseph  Frost,   8.         William,   6,   b. 
1687.  Aug.  8.  Hannah,  b.  1692-3,  Feb.  18;  m.  Jonathan  Richardson,  6,  and 
Benjamin  Frost.  9. 
3.  Jacob,  son  of  William,  1,  b.  1639^0,  Jan.  16.  He  lived  near  his 
brother  John,  on  the  east  road.  His  house  was  one  of  the  'garrisons'  of 
1675,  and  nuiy  be  the  same  venerable  building,  with  brick-lined  Avails,  in 
which  Mr.  James  Fletcher  now  lives.  He  m.  1665,  Sept.  7,  Mary  Champney. 
dau.  of  Elder  Richard,  of  Cambridge.     She  d.  1081.  April  1;  he  m.  1685, 
June  30,  Mary  Convers,  of  Woburn.    She  d.  1686.  April  18 ;  
he  m.  Mary   , 
who  was  drowned  1709,  June  9,  and  he  m.  Ruth    ,  who  d.  1730,  Nov.  6. 
He  d.  1713,  May  20.  Ch.  Jacob,  b.  1666-7,  Feb.  20;  d.  about  1700. 
William,  7,  b.  1668,  July  18.  Mary,  b.  1069,  Oct.  6;  d.  Nov.  12.  Jolm, 
b.  1670,  Oct.  6;  d.  Dec.  3.  Joseph,  b.  1673,  May  5;  d.  at  Cambridge,  1676, 
Sept.  25.  Jabez,  b.  and  d.  1674,  Sept.  16.  Mary,  b.  1676-7,  March  5;  m. 
Jonathan  Baldwin,  3.  Hannah,  b.  and  d.  1677,  Oct.  23.  Elizabeth,  b.  1679, 
June  8;  m.  William  Mannuig,  4.  Sarah,  b.  1681-2,  March  7;  m.  Thomas 
Baldwin,  4.     Abigail,  b.  1686.  April  20 ;  
d.  1687,  March  29. 
4.  Joseph,  son  of  John,  of  Cambridge,  who  was  a  brother  of 
William.  1,  b.  1040,  April  4;  m.  1663,  Nov.  4,  Experience,  dau.  of  Sergt. 
Thomas  Foster,  1.  Ch.  Joseph,  b.  1007,  March  25;  d.  April  25.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1008,  July  16.  Jos^ih,  b.  1669-70;  March  7.  John.  b.  1671-2,  Jan.  30. 
Nathaniel,  b.  1074,  May  0.  Thomas,  b.  167.5-6,  Feb.  29.  Sarah,  b.  1677, 
April  6 ;  
d.  April  14.     Jacob,  b.  1678,  April  26. 
5.  John,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1079,  May  15;  m.  1707-8,  Feb.  13, 
Ruth  Richardson,  dau.  of  Thomas,  1.  Ch.  Buth,  b.  1708,  Oct.  22.  John.  9, 
b.   1710,   Oct.   24.     Thomas,  b.   1712-3,  March  14;  hved  in  Tewksbury; 
 - 432 - 
FRENCH.  57 
m.  Euth;  had  Thomas,  Ruth.  Molly,  Hannah  and  Nehemiah;  d.  1792, 
Dec.  2.  Mary^  b.  1715,  Sept.  23.  Hannah,  b.  1719,  Aug.  1.  Joseph,  b 
1721,  March  28.     Benjamin,  b.  172J:-.5,  Feb.  10.   Jonathan,  b.  1728,  Aug.  17. 
0.  William,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1687,  Aug.  8;  ni.  Mehitable,  dau.  of 
Thomas  Patten.  2.  She  d.  1742-3,  Jan.  1,5.  Sergt.  AVillinni  French 
d.  1745-6,  P>b.  25.  Ch.  H7//i«?ji,  10,  b.  1712-3,  Jan.  25.  Elizabeth,  b.  1716, 
April  3;  m.  Ephraim  Kidder.  9.  Mehitable,  b.  1718,  Aug.  29;  m.  1741, 
Sept.  23,  John  White.  Nathaniel,  b.  1720-1,  Feb.  2;  m.  1744,  Sept.  28, 
"Elizabeth  Frost,  dau.  of  William,  10.  Jonathan  and  David,  b.  1724, 
May  28.  Jonathan  d.  June  20.  Sarah,  b.  1728,  April  28 ;  m.  1746,  March  17, 
Daniel  Kittredge,  (see  12).     John,  11,  b.  1730,  May  27. 
1.  William,  Dea.,  son  of  Jacob,  3,  b.  1668.  July  18 ;  
ni.  1695,  May  22, 
Sarah  Danfortli,  dau.  of  Capt.  Jonathan,  1.  He  d.  1723,  Sept.  30,  and  his 
widow  ni.  1729,  June  10,  Ebenezer  Davis,  of  Concord.  She  d.  1751,  Oct.  15. 
Ch.  Jacob,  12,  b.  1696,  May  16.  Joseph,  b.  1697-8.  Jan.  26;  d.  Feb.  13. 
Sarah,  b.  1698,  Dec.  29;  m.  Nathaniel  Whittemore,  of  Lexington;  d.  1734, 
Aug.  15.  William,  13,  h.  1700-1,  Jan.  25.  Jonathan,  b.  1702-3,  Jan.  25; 
d.  1727-8,  March  9.  Elizabeth,  b.  1-705,  April  3;  m.  Josiah  Crosby.  14. 
Ebenezer,  14,  b.  1707.  Aug.  5.  Mary,  b.  1709.  Oct.  7;  m.  Benjamin 
Manning,  7.  JVichrjlas,  b.  1711,  Sept.  5.  Lydia,  b.  1714,  April  26;  d.  1731, 
Aug.  2.  Esther,  b.  1716,  May  16;  d.  1736.  July  7.  Samuel,  Ibyh.  1718, 
May  21. 
8.  JonatliaD,  perhaps  son  of  Samuel,  of  Dunstable,  son  of  William.  1, 
m.  1726.  June  23.  Mary  Davis,  dau.  of  Joseph.  1.  He  d.  1727-8,  March  9. 
aged  26;  his  widow  m.  Samuel  Brown.  7.  Ch.  Jonathan,  1).  1727,  April  25; 
d.  1748,  June  16.     Killed  bv  Indians,  near  Fort  Dummer. 
9.  John,  son  of  John,  5,  b.  1710.  Oct.  24;  m.  1732,  Oct.  30,  Mary 
Kittredge.  dau.  of  John.  5,  who  d.  1759.  March  27.  He  lived  in  Tewksbury. 
His  will  dated  1778.  Jan.  2.  Ch.  John,  b.  1733,  March  30;  m.  1767.  April  22, 
Beulah  Hosley.  widow^  of  Thomas.  4.  David,  b.  1735,  March  2 ;  d.  before 
1778;  left  a  son,  David.  Sidomon,  b.  1737,  Marcli  11.  Mary,  b.  1738, 
Jan.  26;  m.  Samuel  Brown.  Eenben,  b.  1741,  May  15.  Aaron,  b.  1747, 
March  9.     Jacob,   b.    1751,   April   21;   d.   1756,   March   24.      Joe?,  b.  1754, 
July  22;  d.  Oct.  17.      Joel,  b.  1753,  (?)  Sept.  22.      Sarah    ,  m.  Samuel 
Marshall.     Bnth    ,  m.  Joseph  Phelps. 
10.  William,  son  of  AVilliam,  6,  b.  1712-3,  Jan.  25;  m.  Tabitha    . 
Ch.  Jonathan.  IG,  b.  1737,  Oct.  10.  William,  b.  1738-9,  Feb.  16.  Joseph, 
b.  1740.  Dec.  10.  Tabitha,  b.  1742,  Dec.  31.  Benjamin,  b.  1744-5,  Feb.  18. 
Nehemiah,  b.  1746,  March  29.  Mehittabel,  b.  1747-8,  Feb.  5.  Stephen,  bap. 
1749,  Dec.  31.  Ephraim.  b.  1751,  Nov.  10.  David,  b.  1754,  Sept.  15. 
Mehittabel.  b.  1756,  Aug.  18. 
11.  John,  son  of  William,  6,  b.  1730.  May  27;  m.  1754,  May  9,  Mary 
French,  dau.  of  Jacob.  12,  and  1763.  Jan.  6.  Priscilla  Mace.  Ch.  3Iolly, 
b.  17.55.  Feb.  9;  m.  1771,  Dec.  3,  William  Kidder.  13.  Sarah,  h.  I7r)7, 
April  14.  »S'«ra/i,  b.  1763.  April  30;  in.  Jeremiah  Pollard,  {see  5).  John, 
b.  1765,  April  5.  Priscilla,  b.  1767.  March.  Elizabeth,  b.  1769,  June  20. 
Daniel,  b.  1771,  Sept.  11.  Benjamin,  b.  1774,  May  V2f.  Joseph,  b.  1776, 
Dec.  7 ;  
d.  1780.  Nov.  20.  Jesse,  b.  1779,  June  10;  d.  1780,  Nov.  16.  Patty, 
b.  1781,  May  20. 
12.  Jacob,  son  of  William,  7,  b.  1696.  May  16;  m.  1722,  May  29, 
Elizabeth  Davis,  dau.  of  Joseph,  1.  She  d.  173*7-8.  Feb.  3;  he  m.  1741, 
May  19,  Sarah  Brown,  dau.  of  George,  1.  She  d.  1765.  Aug.  16.  and  he  m. 
1766,  Nov.  19,  Mrs.  Mary  Curtis,  of  Dracixt,  who  d.  1769,  Sept.  19.  He  d. 
1775.  March  7.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1722-3,  Feb.  19;  m.  1744.  June  19,  Jacob 
Reed,  of  Wobuni.  Bebecca,  b.  1723-4.  March  2;  m.  Timothy  Rogers, 
{see  7).  Sarah,  b.  1725.  Dec.  14;  d.  Feb.  16.  Jacob,  b.  1726-7.  Feb.  7; 
d.  1734.  Aug.  28.  Anna,  b.  1728.  Aug.  16;  m.  1749.  Jan.  1.  Edmond  Frost, 
of  Tewksbury.  Sarah,  b.  1730,  May  9;  d.  1750,  March  15.  Mary.  b.  1731, 
Dec.  13;  m.  John  French.  11.  Silence,  b.  and  d.  1734,  May  28.  Jacob,  18, 
b.  1741-2,  Jan.  20.      Judah,  b.  1743,  Aug.  24;  d.  1749,  June  21.      Joel,  19, 
 - 433 - 
58  FRENCH. 
b.  174r).  May  21.       Ezra.  b.  1746,  Dec.  9;  tl.  Dec.  28.       Submit,  b.  and  d. 
1747.  Nov.  27. 
13.  William,  son  of  William,  7,  b.  1700-1,  Jan.  25 ;  m.  172G-7.  Jan.  22, 
Joanna  Hill.  dau.  of  Sauuiel.  10.  Sbe  d.  1769,  Jan.  17.  and  he  ni.  1770, 
Nov.  27,  Mrs.  Mi'hitablc  Mooar.  of  Andover.  Lieut.  French  d.  1776, 
April  9.  Ch.  Williaiii,  134,  b.  1727-8,  March  19.  Joanna,  b.  1729,  Nov.  17; 
ni.  Oliver  Abbot.  3.  Joseph,  b.  1730.  Nov.  11;  d.  Nov.  21.  Jonas.  20, 
b.  1731-2.  March  18.  Lncij.  b.  1734,  Oct.  20;  d.  1735,  May  18.  Lucy, 
b.  1736.  April  3;  d.  Sept.  17.  Asa.  21,  b.  1738.  May  6.  Jod,  b.  1740, 
Aus^-.  19;  d.  Nov.  23.       Rachel,  b.  1741.  Oct.  10;  d.  1774.  .Tan.  18.       Lydla. 
b.  1744.  March  30;  ni.      Page.       Hannah,  b.  1746-7,  Jan.  11;  ni.  1774, 
Jan.  6.  Sanuiel  Lane,  of  Bedford. 
rU.  William,  son  of  William,  13,  b.  1727-8,  March  19;  m.  1764, 
Feb.  23,  Sarah  IJicliardson.  dau.  of  Saumel.  10.  The  Kecord  says  he  d. 
1764,  Jan.  20,  prob.  an  error  for  1767.  as  "William  P>ench  3d,"  does  not 
disappear  from  the  tax-list  till'  1768,  and  his  father  makes  a  bequest  to 
William,  his  grand-son.  His  widow  prob.  m.  1777,  Oct.  21,  Amos  Foster, 
of  Tewksbury.  Ch.  William,  bap.  1765,  July  28.  Sarah,  bap.  1766,  Aug.  31 ; 
perhaps  ni.  Eijhraim  Crosby.  27. 
14.  Ebenezer,  son  of  William,  7,  b.  1707,  Aug.  5;  m.  1729,  Aug.  27, 
Elizabeth  Hill,  dau.  of  Samuel.  10.  She  d.  1786.  March  26;  he  d.  1791, 
Dec.  31.  Ch.  Elizaberh.  b.  1730,  July  7;  d.  1748,  Sept.  4.  Sarah,  b.  1732, 
June  1.  Lucii,  b.  and  d.  1734,  May  20.  Ebenezer.  22,  b.  1735,  May  2. 
Esther,  b.  1736-7,  Fel).  11  ;  m.  Ebenezer  Jaquith,  3.  Jesse.  23,  b.  1739, 
April  6.  Jacob.  21-,  1).  1740,  Nov.  4.  Abigail,  b.  1742-3,  March  9;  m.  1767, 
Jan.  21.  Abel  Baldwin,  19,      Samuel,  b.  1750,  Oct.  27;  d.  1755.  June  21. 
15.  Samuel,  son  of  William,  7,  b.  1718.  May  21;  m.  1743.  July  7, 
Elizabeth  Ban-on,  of  Chelmsford.  Ch.  3Iary.  b.  1743-4,  March  23.  Isaac 
Barron.  25,  b.  1745,  Dec.  30.  Elizabeth,  b.  1747-8,  March  5;  m.  William 
Tarbell.  3.  Esther,  h.  1749-50.  March  19;  m.  1771,  May  30,  John  Bowman, 
of  Bedford.  Sarah,  b.  1752,  March  23;  m.  Joseph  Jones.  1.  Samuel,  b, 
1754,  April  22;  d.  1756.  Oct.  5.  Lucy.  b.  1756,  April  6;  m.  Thomas 
Goodwin,  2.  Oliver,  b.  1758,  Feb.  13.  [The  baptismal  record  says  Olive]. 
Samuel,  b.  1760.  Sept.  7.     Silas,  b.  1762.  Oct.  12. 
16.  Joiiathaii,  son  of  William,  10,  b.  1737,  Oct.  10;  m.  1763,  Jan.  20, 
Abigail  Hosley,  dau.  of  Thomas,  2.  Ch.  Jonathan,  b.  1763.  Dec.  8. 
Abigail,  h.  1765.  Dec.  8.     Sarah,  b.  1768.  Oct.  15. 
17.  David.  His  birth  is  not  recorded,  and  prob.  was  not  in  town. 
He  m.  1758,  Nov.  15.  Margaret  Koss.  a  widow.  Died  of  small-pox,  in 
Dunstable,  1779,  Dec.  29.  Ch.  David,  b.  1759,  Nov.  5.  Martha,  b.  1762, 
Nov.  5.     Thomas,  b.  1765,  Dec.  8. 
18.  Jacob,  son  of  Jacob,  12,  b.  1741-2.  Jan.  20;  m.  1767,  Feb.  24, 
Elizabeth  Kittredge,  prob.  dau.  of  William.  8,  of  Tewksbury.  Ch.  Silent. 
b.  and  d.  1767,  Dec.  7.  Elizabeth,  b.  1769,  Aug.  6.  Jacob,  h.  1771,  April  9. 
Hannah,  b.  1774,  Jan.  16.  Judah.  b.  1776,  Jan.  28.  Anna.  b.  1777.  Nov.  27. 
Joel,  b.  1780.   Jan.   30.     Sarah,   b.    1782.   Dec.   22;  m,   Benjanun   Dowse, 
( S€B  5^ .  ' 
19.  Joel,  son  of  Jacob.  12,  b.  1745.  May  21;  m.  1771,  Nov.  21, 
Eleanor  Johnson.  She  d.  1774,  Feb.  6;  he  d.  17^5,  March  7.  Ch.  Sarah, 
b.  1772,  Oct.  9;  d.  1773,  April  18. 
20.  Jonas,  son  of  William,  13,  b.  1731-2.  March  18;  m.  17.58.  Jan.  5, 
Hannah  Page.  d;iu.  of  Nathaniel,  4.  She  d.  1793.  April  2;  he  d.  1801, 
Feb.  9.  Ch.  Jonas,  b.  1758,  Sept.  18 ;  
d.  1775,  Oct.  4.  Nathaniel.  2G, 
b.  1760,  April  11.  lieuben.  27,  b.  1761,  Oct.  18.  William,  b.  1765.  April  29; 
m.  1791,  Jan.  20.  Kel)ecca  Marshall,  dau.  of  Isaac.  7.  Hannah,  b.  1768, 
Jan.  23 ;  m.  1789,  April  2,  Jonathan  Heald,  of  Carlisle.  Thomas,  b.  1770, 
Sept.  24.  Ziba,  b.  1773,  June  9.  Susanna,  b.  1775,  Oct.  25;  m.  Joseph 
Jaiputh,  8. 
21.  Asa,  son  of  William,  13,  b.  1738,  May  6;  m.  1760,  March  13, 
Ilamiah  Eicliardson,   dau.  of  Sanmel.  10.       Ch.     Asa.   b.    1760.   July  7. 
 - 434 - 
FRENCH.  59 
Joshua,  b.  1762.  Mareh  27.  Joseph  and  Benjamin.  (The  two  latter,  named 
in  their  grand-father's  will). 
22.  Ebenezer,  son  of  Ebenezer,  14,  b.  1735,  May  2;  m.  1760.  June  3, 
Rebecca  Kidder,  dau.  of  William,  8.  C'h.  Ebenezer,  b.  1760.  Dec.  16;  d.  at 
Halifax,  1778,  Sept.  28.  Rebecca,  b.  1762,  June  26;  m.  Samuel  Marshall, 
(see  6).  *'fflra/i.  b.  1764,  Jan.  11.  ^?;e?,  b.  1766,  Aug.  15.  Lydia,'b.\lQl, 
Dec.  1 ;  m.  1800.  Dec.  5,  Rev.  Joshua  Heywood,  who  was  b.  in  Burlington, 
1761,  Aug.  2;  grad.  D.  C,  1795;  studied  theology  with  Dr.  Cunimings; 
was  ordained  pastor  in  Dunstable.  1799,  June  5;  d.  1814.  Nov.  11.  Zadock, 
b.  1769,  May  22.  Elisabeth,  b.  1771,  Feb.  7.  '  Hezekvah,  b.  1773.  Jan.  18. 
Francis,  b.  1774,  Aug.  15.     Josiah,  b.  1777.  Dec.  25. 
23.  Jesse,  son  of  Ebenezer,  14,  b.  1739,  April  6;  m.  1761,  April  14. 
Abigail  Jaquith,  dau.  of  Abraham.  1.  He  lived  after  1763,  for  some  years, 
in  Fitchburg.  C'h.  Jesse,  h.  1761,  Oct.  11;  lived  in  Ohio.  A'am?/e?,  b.' 1763, 
March  14  ;  
lived  in  Fitchburg.  Thumns  lived  in  Fitchburg.  Luther,  28, 
b.  1767,  Sept.  25.  Abrarn,  a  merchant  in  Boston.  Abel  m.  1817,  Elizabeth 
Foster,  and  had  two  son«,  one  of  whom  was  Franklin,  of  Acton. 
24.  Jacob,  son  of  Ebenezer,  14,  b.  1740,  Nov.  4;  m.  1763,  Jan.  28. 
Sarah  Ditsou.  dau.  of  Thomas.  2.  He  d.  1776.  Aug.  4.  Ch.  Jacob,  b.  1763, 
Oct.  17.  James,  b.  1765.  Oct.  1.  Sarah,  b.  1768.  Oct.  15;  m,  1795,  Dec.  15, 
Sylvanus  Blanchard,  of  Maiden.  Peter.  24i,  b.  1770.  Nov.  6.  Benjamin^ 
b'.  1773,  Mav  22.     Bhoda,  b.  1775,  April  9. 
24i.  Peter,  son  of  Jacob,  24,  b.  1770,  Nov.  6;  m.  1792,  Oct.  9, 
Elizabeth  Jaquith,  dau.  of  Joseph,  6.  She  d.  1838,  Dec.  9.  Ch.  Peter, 
bap.  1793.  April  14. 
25.  Isaac,  son  of  Samuel.  15,  unless  Isaac  Barron  was  another 
person,  as  is  suggested  by  the  difference  of  5  years  in  the  age  given  by 
grave-stone.     If  so.  the  birth  of  this  Isaac  is  not  recorded.     He  m.  Hannah 
  ,  and  d.  1821,  April  8.  aged  70,  [grave-stone].      Ch.  Isaac,  29,  b.  1777, 
April  1.  Cyrns,29h,  b.  1779.  Feb.  22.  Hannah,  b.  1781,  June  1 ;  
d.  1805, 
Nov.  26.  Jonathan,  30,  b.  1783,  Feb.  20.  Sampson,  b.  1785,  Feb.  6;  d.  1808, 
Feb.  26.  Mary.  b.  1787,  March  9 ;  d.  1806,  Sept.  5.  Eri,  b.  1789,  Feb.  25, 
d.  1808,  Jan.  7.  Moodij,  b.  1791,  March  5;  d.  1796,  Jan.  6.  William, 
b.  1793,  June  18 ;  
d.  1795,  Dec.  28.  Joseph,  bap.  1795,  July  26.  Anna, 
b.  1797,  Mav  24;  m.  Joseph  Parker.  27. 
26.  Nathaniel,  son  of  Jonas,  20,  b.  1760.  April  11  ;  m.  1783.  Sept.  11, 
Susanna  Brown,  of  Concord.  Ch.  Jonas,  b.  1787,  June  7.  Cinda,  b.  1789. 
Nov.  8. 
27.  Reuben,  son  of  Jonas.  20,  b.  1761,  Oct.  18;  m.  1789,  March  12, 
Abigail  Farmer,  dau.  of  John.  11.  Ch.  Nabby,  b.  1790,  Aug.  21 ;  m.  Josiah 
Hill,  26.  Benben,  31,  b.  1792.  Feb.  26.  Charles,  b.  1793,  Oct.  13.  Ziba, 
b.  1796.  Jan.  3.  Oeorr/e,  b.  1797,  Sept.  8.  Zoa,  b.  1801,  April  15.  Paye, 
b.  1805,  April  30;  d.  1819.  Oct.  14. 
28.  Luther,  son  of  Jesse,  23,  b.  in  Fitchburg,  1767,  Sept.  25;  m. 
1796,  Aug.  28,  Sally  Bowers,  dau.  of  Josiah,  3.  He  lived  on  Andover 
street,  at  the  fork  of  the  Long  pond  road.  Ch.  Maria,  b.  1796,  Sept.  12; 
d.  1799,  Mareh  27.  Caroline,  b.  1798.  May  6;  m.  Zaccheus  Shed,  25. 
Josiah  Bonders,  b.  1799.  Dec.  13;  m.  1823,  April  6,  Mary  Ann  Stevens, 
dau.  of  Josiah.  She  d.  1863,  June  6,  and  he  d.  1876.  Aug.  21.  By  his  will, 
the  Howe  schbol  is  to  receive,  eventually,  $5000  fOr  its  libraiy.  His 
ch.  Mary  Ann,  b.  1823.  Sept.  19;  m.  Hon.  Benjamin  Dean,  of  Boston, 
recently  a  member  of  Congress.  Josiah  Stevens,  b.  1825,  Sept.  30;  d. 
Harriet  Stevens,  b.  1827,  Aug.  27.  Josiah  Bowers,  b.  1830.  Jan.  8.  Sanuiel 
Lawrence,  b.  1832.  Sept.  25.  Luther  Bartlett.  b.  1834.  Oct.  25;  d.  Sarah 
Josephine,  b.  1838,  jVIarch  3.  Catherine  Isaliella.  b.  1840,  Dec.  20;  m. 
Arthur  E.  Bowers.     Frances  Maria,  b.  1843,  April  20;  d. 
Note. — Of  this  loyal  son  of  Billerica,  and  ex-Mayor  of  Lowell,  we  are 
liappy  to  give,  herewith,  an  excellent  portrait,  and  to  condense  from  the 
••Contributions"  of  the  Old  Residents  Historical  Association  of  Lowell, 
pps.  151-4,  farther  notice  of  his  active  life. 
 - 435 - 
60  FRENCH  —  FROST. 
At  the  age  of  eleven,  he  went  to  live  with  his  uncle,  attending  school 
and  working  for  his  board,  and  the  district  school  was  his  only  educational 
advantage,  "lie  spent  two  ye:irs,  1S15-7,  with  another  uncle  in  Salisbury, 
N.  II..  and  was  two  or  three  years  in  a  country  store,  and  a  short  time  in 
Charlestown.  In  1824.  he  i)ccame  Deputy  Sheriff  of  Middlesex  county, 
and  settled  in  Lowell,  holding  this  office  till  1830.  From  this  time  he 
became  active  in  the  great  l)usiness  of  staging,  owning  laigely  in  the  lines 
from  Lowell  to  Concord,  and  others  ;  and  was  a  niail  contractor  between 
Boston  and  Montreal.  In  building  the  Ogdensburg  railroad,  he  was  a  large 
contractor,  and  he  became  President  of  the  Northern  (N.  H.)  Railroad  in 
1851.  but  resigned  on  the  death,  in  1853.  of  his  brother,  with  whom  he  was 
associated  in  extensive  railroad  c(nitracts  in  Ohio,  the  management  of 
which  he  then  had  to  assume.  About  1860.  he  became  Agent  of  the 
AVinnipesaukee  Lake  Cotton  and  Woolen  Manufacturing  Company,  at  Lake 
Village,  N.  IL,  and  so  remained  for  12  years. 
In  Lowell  he  was  active  in  1826.  in  building  the  Central  Bridge,  and 
remained  in  the  Company  until  it  was  made  free  by  the  city.  He  was  one 
of  the  corpT)i'ators  in  1828.  and  a  Director  of  the  Old  Lowell  Bank,  and 
later,  of  the  A])pleton  Bank,  of  which  he  became  President  ;  also  of  the 
City  Institution  for  Savings.  In  1835,  he  was  Representative  in  the 
Legislature;  member  of  the  Counnon  Oiuncil,  1836-42;  Chief  Engineer 
of  the  Fire  Department,  1841  ;  County  Connnissioner.  1844-7  ;  and  Mayor, 
1849-50.  ''From  the  early  history  of  Ivowell.  his  experience  has  been  as 
successful,  as  honorable  to  himself  and  to  his  fellow-citizens,  and  his  name 
in  the  years  to  come  will  occupy  a  prominent  positiiju  in  the  history  of  our, 
city." 
Andrew,  b.  1801,  Dec.  21  ;  
d.  1873,  Jan.  12.  Abram,  b.  1803.  Dec.  13 ; 
lived  in  Lowell;  had  5  ch.  ;  d.  1879.  April  11.  Luther,  b.  1806,  Jan.  9; 
d.  1834,  Sept.  4.  Maria  Trowhrklge,  b.  1808.  April  4;  lives  in  Lowell. 
WnUcr.  h.  1810,  Aug.  29;  d.  1853.  May  6;  killed  at  Xorwalk,  Conn., 
an  open  '-draw''  precipitating  a  railroad  train  into  the  river.  Amus  Binneii, 
b.  1812,  July  3;  of  the  firm  of  French  &  Puffer,  of  Lowell;  m.  Leocade 
Dearborn,  aiid  had  Frances  Maria,  who  m.  Dr.  Leighton,  of  Lowell,  and 
Leocade,  who  d.  Thomas  Trowbridqe.  b.  1814,  Dec.  21;  lives  in  East 
Chelmsford.      Lucy  Ann.  b.  1819.  July  30;  d.  1826,  Feb. 
29.  Isaac,  son  of  Isaac.  25,  b.  1777,  April  1.  Ch.  Moodii,  Mary  and 
Hannah,  all  bap.  1806,  Sept.  21.     Hannah  m.  1835.  June  28.  Ethel  Stevens. 
'    2dh.     Cyrus,   son   of  Isaac,   25,   b.    1779,   Feb.   22;  d.    1817,  Sept.  2. 
Ch.  Em(dia,'\r.\]y.  1813,  Jan.  3.     Isaac,  bap.  1815,  March  12. 
30.  Jonathan,  son  of  Isaac,  25,  b.  1783,  Feb.  20;  m.  1809,  June  14, 
Abigail  Bacon;  d.  1809,  Nov.  24.     His  widow  ra.  Josiah  Hill,  36. 
"31.  Reuben,  son  of  Reuben,  27,  b.  1792,  Feb.  26;  m.  1819,  Feb.  7, 
Abigail  Holden,  dau.  of  Thomas,  2.  Ch.  Henry  Page,  b.  1824,  May  23; 
d.  Aug.  22.    He.nrii  Holden,  b.  1827,  Jan.  15.     George  Page,  b.  1829.  Sept.  15. 
3^.  Charles  W.,  sou  of  Ami.  of  Tewksbury,  who  d.  here,  1836, 
May  15,  aged  52;  in.  Koxanna  Warren;  lived  at  North  Billerica;  d.  1876, 
July  5.  aged  66;  his  widow  d.  1880,  Jan.  10.  Ch.  Augusta  Maria,  b.  1839, 
April  11;  m.  Thomas  Spaulding,  11.  Charles  Barrett,  b.  1840,  Oct.  10. 
Marietta,  b.  1844,  April  24.     Frederic,  b.  1847,  July  20. 
33.  Joseph,  from  Maine  m.  1843,  Nov.  7,  Elizabeth  Ann  Puffer. 
He  d.  1853,  Nov.  2.  aged  35.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1844,  Oct.  6.  Joseph,  b. 
1846.  April  15.     Sarah  L..  b.  1851,  Sept.  7. 
34.  Sullivan  Frederick,  from  Newport,  Me.,  m.  1875,  July  29,  Edith 
Winter,  dau.  of  Sanuiel  E.,  2.  Ch.  Katie  May,  b.  1876,  June  17.  Phillip 
Edward,  b.  1878.  Dec.  28. 
35.  William,  of  Boston,  ni.  1819,  Aug.  10,  Sarah  Baldwin,  perhaps 
dau.  of  Keuben.  18. 
FROST.  Sauuiel.  1,  and  James,  2,  were  sons  of  Dea.  Edmund, 
of  Cambridge,  and  were  accepted  as  inhabitants,  1663-4,  Jan.  About  ten 
years  passed,  before  Samuel  settled  in  the  town. 
 - 436 - 
^,     
V^^-^Z^^^^^"^ 
 - 437 - 
 - 438 - 
FROST.  Gl 
1.  Samuel,  b.  1637-8,  Feb.;  m.  1663,  Oct.  12,  Mary  Cole,  and  2d, 
Elizabeth  Miller,  dau.  of  Rev.  Jolm  Miller.     He  prob.  m.  a  3d  wife.  Ruth 
  .  
who  111.  John  Dutton,  3.   Three  ch.  by  first  wife  were  b.  in  Cainbndge, 
He  bou2;ht  land  of  John  Marshall,  and  lived  south-east  of  the  Andover 
road,  having  a  right  to  pass  on  John  Sheldon's  land,  to  the  road. 
'•Dr.    Samuel   Frost   departed   this   life,"   1717-8,   Jan.    7.       Ch.    iSamnel, 
b.  1664,  Aug.  21 ;  in.  Experience    ;  lived  in  Springfield.     Isaac,  b.  1666, 
Oct.  21.  Edmonds  b.  1668,  Aug.  21;  d.  1690-1.  Feb.  5.  Thomas,  3. 
Elizahfth,  b.  1674,  April  30;  m.  John  Francis,  of  Medford.  John.  b.  1678, 
April  2;  went  to  Newtown,  Bucks  Co.,  Penn.  ;  
d.  about  1717,  leaving  his 
estate  to  his  sister  Elizabeth  and  brothers  Thomas  and  Joseph.  Joseph. 
b.  1680,  Dec.  23;  m.  1707,  Jan.  12,  Sarah  Whittemore,  widow  of  John,  and 
in  1717.  Hannah  Estabrook.  He  lived  in  Charlestown  and  Sherburne. 
Benjamin,  b.  1683,  Aug.  10.  Jonathan,  b.  1685,  Nov.  3 ;  d.  1706,  June  23. 
David,  b.  1689,  April  11  ;  
d.  April  14.     Edmond.  4,  b.  1691-2,  March  5. 
2.  James,  b.  1640,  April  9;  m.  1664.  Dec.  7,  Rebecca  Hamlet,  dau.  of 
William,  1.  She  d.  1666.  July  20;  he  m.  1666-7,  Jan.  22.  Ehzabeth  Foster, 
dau.  of  Thomas,  1.  He  lived  north-east  of  Bare  hill,  between  Hamlet  and 
Ross;  was  deacon.  He  d.  1711,  Aug.  12;  his  widow  d.  1726.  Ch.  James.  5, 
b.  1666,  July  7.  Thomas.  6,  b.  I(j67.  Oct.  18.  John.  b.  1668,  Nov.  14; 
d.  March  3.'  Samuel.  7,  b.  1669-70.  Feb.  28.  Elizabeth,  b.  1672,  Nov.  6; 
in.  Peter  Corneal,  1.  Edmond.  b.  1675,  May  14 ;  
d.  May  18.  Marii.  b.  1676, 
May  6;  m.  John  Walker,  2.  Sarah,  b.  1678,  July  15;  m.  Nathaniel 
Howard.  Hannah,  b.  1680-1,  Jan  31.  Joseph.  8,  b.  1682-3.  March  21. 
Ahiqail.  b.  1685,  Aug.  23;  m.  Ephraim  Kidder,  5.  Benjamin.  9,  b.  1687-8, 
March  8. 
3.  Thomas,  son  of  Dr.  Samuel,  1.  Birth  not  recorded.  He  m.  Sarah 
Dunton.  dau.  of  Samuel.  After  1719,  he  removed  to  Natick  and  d.  there, 
not  long  before  1746,  May  10.  Ch.  Bebecca,  b.  1695,  May  6.  Josiah, 
b.  1696-7,  March  27;  d.  insane,  1746.  Sarah,  b.  1698-9,  Jan.  29;  m. 
Abraham  Graves,  of  Andover.  Samuel,  b.  1700,  June  7;  lived  in  Natick; 
d.  1747.  Ebenezer.  b.  1711,  Nov.  Bitth.  b.  1715,  Oct.  4;  m.  Elijah 
Kendrick.     Esther,  b.  1718,  Sept.  1. 
4.  Edmond,  son  of  Dr.  Samuel.  1,  b.  1691-2.  March  5 ;  m.  1712,  Dec.  1, 
Hannah  Kittredge.  dau.  of  John.  2 :  lived  in  Tewksbury.  She  d.  1759, 
Oct.  13;  he  d.  1766.  May  29.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1715.  Mav  25.  Elizabeth 
b.  1717-8.  Feb.  23;  m.  John  Patten.  8.  Abiijail.  h.  1718-9.  March  16. 
Susanna,  b.  1721.  April  18.  Edmund,  b.  1723.  April  3;  m.  1749,  Jan.  11, 
Anna  French,  dau.  of  Jacob,  12;  lived  in  Tewksbury.  Bnth.  b.  1725. 
June  17.  Samuel,  b.  1733.  Sept.  16;  m.  1764.  May  22.  Martha  Mace;  lived 
in  Tewksbury  and  in  Dunbartoii.  N.  H.  ;  
had  ch.  Samuel.  Abraham  and 
Martha,  who'  m.  Closes  Trussell,  of  Boseawen.  N.  H,  Ruth  m.  Isaac 
Bailev;  Isaac,  Jacob  and  Abigail.  Jacob  b.  1773.  June  28.  was  a  black- 
smith in  
Fryeburg  and  Denmark.  Me.,  and  had  13  ch.,  of  whom  Sarah  P. 
m.  Rev.  Larkin  L.  Jordan,  and  Marv  Kidder  m.  Snow  AVhitman,  of  Boston, 
and  had  Charles  B.  b.  1848.  Aug.  22'.  Abigail,  b.  1776.  Oct.  8 ;  m.  William 
Burnham.  of  Dunbarton,  and  had  Charles  Guilford  Burnham,  b.  1803, 
Oct.  6. ;  
D.  C,  1829  ;  
d.  1866,  June  29 ; a   distinguished  teacher  in  Pembroke, 
N.  H.  and  Danville,  Vt. 
6,     James,  son  of  James,  2,  b.  1666,  July  7 ;  ni.  Hannah    .     
She  d. 
after  1712;  he  m.  1729-30,  Jan.  16,  Mary  Beard,  widow  of  Andrew,  1. 
Ch.  William.  10,  b.  1694,  Sept.  4.  Hannah,  b.  1696,  Oct.  22;  ni.  Seth 
Levistone.  3.  Bebecca.  h.  1699,  April  26;  m.  Joseph  Frost,  8.  James, 
b.  1701.  June  27;  d.  1703,  May  27.  Ebenezer,  b.  1702,  Aug.  James.  11, 
b.  1704.  Oct.  3.  Elizabeth,  b.  1710,  Aug.  27 ;  
m.  James  Sanders,  3.  John,  12, 
b.  1712,  Oct.  28. 
6.  Thomas,  son  of  James.  2,  b.  1667.  Oct.  18;  m.  1695,  Dec.  12, 
Rebecca  Farley,  dau.  of  Caleb,  2.  She  d.  1704-5,  March  4 ;  he  m.  1706, 
March  28,  Hannah  Richardson,  of  Woburn.  She  d.  1708,  May  19;  he  m. 
Deborah    .     He  d.  1742,  March  6.    Ch.  James,  b.  1696,  Sept.  18 ;  
d.  1697. 
 - 439 - 
62  FROST. 
April  21.  Experience^  1).  lODS,  March  26;  ui.  Joseph  Bigsby,  of  Andover. 
lirbecm,  h.  1701,  Aug.  0;  in.  David  Blanehard,  of  Andover.  Sarah,  b.  1704, 
Dec.  25;  ni.  Abraliani  Foster,  of  Andover.  T'homas.  b.  1708,  April  16;  m. 
1737.  June  6.  Dorcas  Boynton,  of  Lunenburg;  lived  in  Dunstable.  Joseph, 
1).  1709,  Nov.  26.  limothi/,  b.  1710.  Nov.  16;  d.  1714,  June  8.  Deborah, 
b.  1714,  June  0.     Elizabeth,  b.  1716-7,  Feb.  28. 
7.  Samuel,  son  of  James,  2,  b.  1669-70.  Feb.  28;  ni.  Hannah.  She 
d.  1753,  Dec.  25,  aged  77.  He  d.  1755,  Dec.  7,  in  Tewksbury.  Ch.  Hannah, 
b.  1702,  Mav  13;  ni.  Rol)ert  Meers,  1.  SamneJ.  b.  1703,  Nov.  26.  Daniel, 
b.  1705.  June  9.  Abigail,  b.  1710,  June  18.  John,  b.  1712,  April  30; 
)h.  Deborah  (Teivi])le)  Harris.  Elizabeth,  b.  1714,  Aug.  16;  ni.  Thomas 
Levistone.  4. 
8.  Joseph,  son  of  James,  2,  b.  1682-3,  March  21 ;  m.  1710,  April  5, 
Sarah  Flint,  of  (.'harlestown,  dau.  of  John  French.  2,  and  1718,  Dec.  8, 
Eebecca  Frost,  dau.  of  James,  5.  He  d.  in  Tewksbury.  1737.  Dec.  28. 
Ch.  Joseph.  13,  1).  1711-2,  Jan.  22.  Sarah,  b.  1716,  May  31.  Benjamin, 
b.  1717-8,  March  6.     Ephraim,  b.  1721,  June  9. 
9.  Beujamin,  son  of  James,  2,  b.  1687-8,  March  8;  m.  1710,  Dec.  21, 
Mary  Stearns,  dau.  of  I'tiomas,  4.  She  d.  1725.  Oct.  ;  
he  m.  1725-6,  Feb.  15, 
Hannah  Kichardson,  widow  of  Jonathan,  6.  Sergt.  Frost  d.  1753, 
March  24.  She  d.  1769.  Sept.  12.  Ch.  Mary,  b.  1727,  April  20;  m. 
Benjamin  Danforth,  12. 
'10.  William,  son  of  James,  5,  b.  1694.  Sept.  4;  m.  1721.  Elizabeth 
Wilson,  dau.  of  John,  2.  He  d.  before  the  birth  of  Abial.  Ch.  William, 
b.  1722,  Sept.  17;  d.  Oct.  17.  Elizabeth,  b.  1723,  Aug.  31;  m.  Nathaniel 
French,  (s^^eG).  William,  b.  1724-5.  Feb.  21;  d.  1748,  Sept.  9.  James, 
b.  1726,  May  8;  d.  June  11.  Jacob,  b.  1727-8,  March  16.  Esther,  b.  1729-30, 
Feb.  17;  m.  Samuel  Marshall,  {see^).  Bebecra,  b.  1733,  Oct.  1;  d.  1734, 
June  20.  Jesse,  b.  1735-6,  March  9.  Lucy,  b.  1737,  April  9.  Abial,  b.  1738-9, 
March  18. 
11.  James,  son  of  James,  5,  b.  1704,  Oct.  3;  m.  1731-2,  Feb.  8, 
Esther  Hosley,  dau.  of  James.  He  lived  west  of  Concord  river,  not  far 
from  the  ''corner"  bridge;  d.  17.54.  Jan.  5.  She  d.  1773,  Nov.  20. 
Ch.  Esther,  h.  1732,  April  15.  James,  b.  1734-5,  Jan.  3.  Joshua,  14, 
b.  1737.  Dec.  8.  Hannah,  b.  1740,  July  20;  m.  Jacob  Foster,  9.  Sarah, 
b.  1744,  Sept.  16 ;  m.  1774,  March  22,  Adam  Caldwell.  Abigail,  b.  1747, 
July  24;  m.  Benjamin  Dows.  5.  William,  15,  b.  1749,  Dec.  17.  Martha, 
b.  1751,  Nov.  19;  m.  1772,  Feb.  27,  William  Bean. 
12.  John,  son  of  James,  5,  b.  1712,  April  30;  m.  1736,  Dec.  22, 
Hannah  Cornell,  dau.  of  Peter,  1,  He  was  one  of  the  three  Billerica  victims 
of  the  Indian  ambuscade  and  massacre,  near  Fort  Dumnier,  1748,  June  16. 
Ch.  John,  b.  1737,  Nov.  19.  Hannah,  b.  1741,  Aug.  6;  m.  Abijah  Beard,  13. 
Peter,  b.  1744,  Nov.  21. 
13.  Joseph,  son  of  Joseph,  8,  b.  1711-2,  Jan.  22;  m.  1731,  Oct.  25, 
Abigail  Kittredge,  dau.  of  Daniel,  4.  He  lived  in  Tewksbury;  d.  1751, 
Jan.  29;  his  widow  m.  1755.  March  21,  Ebenezer  Fisk.  Ch.  Ephraim, 
b.  1732.  May  13.  Abigail,  b.  1733-4,  March  6.  MeMtable,  b.  1735,  Sept.  4; 
d.  1736,  Jan.  24.  Joshua,  b.  1737,  April  3.  Joseph,  b.  1738,  Feb.  20. 
Jonathan,  b.  1740.  Feb.  20.  Benjamin,  and  Sarah,  b.  1742,  Feb.  10. 
Mehiitable,  b.  1745,  June  4.  Elizabeth  and  Daniel,  b.  1747,  Aug.  16.  Abigail 
b.  1749,  A])ril  30. 
14.  Joshua,  son  of  James,  11,  b.  1737,  Dec.  8;  m.  1765.  Feb.  7, 
Hannah  Dutton,  dau.  of  Thonuis,  6.  He  d.  before  the  birth  of  William  ; 
his  widow  m.  Jonas  Sanders,  6.  Ch.  Rebecca,  b.  1766,  Aug.  26;  m.  George 
Tufts.  Hannah,  b.  1769,  Aug.  11;  m.  William  Levistone,  {see  4).  Mary, 
b.  1773,  March  8;  m.  Job  Niddes,  (see  4).  Elizabeth,  b.  1775,  Dec.  16. 
Joshua,  b.  1778,  Aug.  24;  d.  1780,  May  29.     William,  b.  1780,  Sept.  22. 
Molly15.  William,  son  of  James,  11,"^  b.  1749,  Dec.  17;  m.  1775,  June  14, 
Spaulding,  of  Chelmsford,  and  1784,  Dec.  12.  Sarah  Wilson,  dau.  of 
Seth,    5.      Ch.    William,    b.    1785,    Dec.    8.      Joshua,    b.    1787,    Feb.    5. 
 - 440 - 
FROST  —  (JLEASON.  63 
Benjamin.  16,  b.  1791,  Nov.  27.  Sarah,  b.  1794,  Aug.  2.5.  Clarissa, 
b.  1796.  Juuc  18;  m.  Charles  Goodwin.  4.  Martha,  b.  1800.  Jan.  23; 
ni.  1824.  June  17,  Joel  Wheat.     Maria,  b.  1804.  Sept.  30. 
16.  Benjamin,  son  of  William.  15,  b.  1791.  Nov.  27;  ni.  Beulah    . 
He  d.  1847.  Julv  30.  C^h.  Sarah  Elizabeth,  b.  1816,  Aug.  24.  William 
FranAtin,  b.  1818.  July  26.  Lncij  Ann,  b.  1819,  Oct.  19.  John,  b.  1820, 
Dec.  10.  George,  17,  b.  1825.  April  18.  Harriet  and  Henry,  b.  1827.  June  12. 
Harriet  ni.  Albert  E.  Ricliardson.  34,  and  Henrj'  ni.  18.51,  Maj'  27,  Lucy  I. 
Hutchins;  d.  1859,  June  2. 
17.  George,  son  of  Benjamin.  16,  b.  1825,  April  18;  ni.  at  Concord, 
N.  H..  18G1.  Nov.  28.  Susan  A.  Kust.  He  lived  on  the  Andover  road,  near 
the  Salem  road;  d.  1879.  Aug.  7.     Ch.  Charles  H,  b.  1866,  Feb.  18. 
FULLER.     1.     John  hatl  ch.  Thaddeus  3Iuzzt/.  bap.  1786.  Aug,  27. 
2.     Silas  had  Josiah.  bap.  1787.  Sept.  14. 
CtALUSHA,  Sanniel,  and  wife  Esther.  Name  not  on  tax-list. 
Ch.  Joseph,  b.  1747.  May  9. 
GIBSON,  William,  of  Nottingham  West.  m.  1778.  Nov.  26,  Mary 
Blodgett. 
GLEASON.   Thomas  Gleason,  of  Watertown.  Cambridge,  and  1662,  of 
Charlestown.     He  m.    Susannah    .  and  had  ch.  Thomas.  Joseph,  and 
John,  who  lived  in  Sudliury;  INIary.  b.  in  Cambridge.  1657.  Oct.  31;  prob. 
Isaac,  who  was  in  the  Falls  tight.  1676.  and  lived  in  Enfield,  and  William, 
AVilliam  m.  Abiah    -.  and  had  ch.  bap.  1687,  April  10,     Jose])h,  John  and 
Elizabeth,  and  1690.  Dec.  7.  Isaac.  Isaac  m.  Martha  Livermore,  of 
Watertown.  and  lived  in  Sudbury,  and  had  a  son.  Isaac,  who  was  father  of 
our  AVilliam.  1.  Isaac,  who  kept  a  tavern  in  Waltham.  Josiah,  who  lived  in 
Chelsea,    Joseph,   who  d.   in  the   French   War.    and  John,   of    AA'oburn. 
1.  William.  The  name  is  first  on  the  tax-list  of  1754.  He  leased 
the  College  farm,  east  of  the  Shawshin.  and  not  many  years  later,  he 
])urchasecl.  it.  It  remained  the  family  home  until  1850,  when  Mr.  AVilliam 
S.  Gleason  removed  to  the  village,  Avhere  he  now  lives,  on  the  south  side 
of  Andover  street.  AVilliam  Gleason  m.  Mary  Seger.  who  d.  1776.  Oct.  5, 
aged  45;  he  m.  1780,  June  28.  Mary,  widow  of  James  Goss.  She  d.  1817, 
Jime  11;  he  d.  1818.  Feb.  3,  aged  88.  Ch.  WiUiam.  b.  1756,  Aug.  21; 
d.  Mary.  b.  1758.  Aug.  17;  m.  Mark  Pitman;  lived  in  Maine.  Hannah, 
b.  1760.  Dec.  10;  m.  Timothy  AValker.  son  of  Joseph.  6.  WiUiam,  2,  b. 
1763.  Feb.  13.  Bebecca,  b!  1765.  Dec.  10;  m.  1786.  Feb.  28,  Joseph 
Hey  wood  [or  Howard,]  of  Brownfield,  Me.  One  of  his  sons  was  Joseph, 
b.  1800.  March  14;  grad.  B.  C.  1821;  m.  Maria,  dau.  of  Hon.  Judah 
Dana,  of  Fryeburgh.  Me.,  and  Avas  for  many  years  an  honored  Judge  of 
the  Supreme  Court  of  Maine.  He  d.  in  Portland.  1877.  Dec.  12. 
Jospph.  3,  b.  1768.  Feb.  5.  Eiith,  b.  1770,  May  2;  d.  Sarah,  b.  1772, 
Aug.  13;  m.  1801,  July  2,  YAllliam  Homer.  Boston;  had  AVilliam,  Lucy, 
Augustus,  Aaron  and  Francis.  Lucy,  b.  1776,  March  21;  d.  Lucy,  bap. 
1782.  Julv  7. 
2.  William,  son  of  AAllliam,  1,  b.  1763.  Feb.  13;  m,  1795,  Feb.  11, 
Sally  Bacon,  of  Bedford.  He  d.  1844,  Sept.  26.  She  d.  1852,  Dec.  16, 
aged  81.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1797.  Aug.  1;  m.  1826.  June  1.  Robert  Ames,  of 
AVoburn.  Daughter,  b.  and  d.  1799,  Feb.  20.  WiUiam,  b.  1801,  Jan.  11 ; 
d.  March  1.  3Iary  Ann.  b.  1803.  April  13.  Elizabeth,  b.  1805,  Oct.  8; 
m.  1831,  Dec.  1.  Jeremiah  Goldsmith.  Andover.  Abigail  Harriet,  b.  1808, 
Jan.  22 ;  m.  George  Crosby,  of  Boston,  son  of  Michael.  WiUiam  Segar,  4, 
b.  1809.  Nov.  1.  Louim,  b.  1812.  Feb.  3;  m.  1844,  May  15,  Daniel 
Richardson,  of  AA'oburn,  (see  27).  Daughter,  b.  and  d.  1814,  Nov.  9.  Josiah 
Bacon,  b.  1816,  July  13;  m.  Mary  Hartwell;  lives  in  Lexington;  has 
ch.  Henry,  .Josiah  and  Fred  Eugene. 
3.  Joseph,  son  of  AVillianu  1,  b.  1768,  Feb.  5;  m.  1798,  May  31, 
Sarah  Cook.  dau.  of  Sears,  2.  He  d.  1849.  March  21  ;  she  d.  1851.  May  21. 
Ch.  Joseph,  b.  1800.  Aug.  4.  Amira.  h.  1804.  Feb.  26;  m.  Sewell  Buck,  of 
AVilmington.  Susan  Walker,  b.  1807,  Nov.  2;  m.  1832,  April  24,  Silas 
Cutler,  of  Burlington.     George,  b.  1809,  March  8 ;  m.  Susan  Bennett. 
 - 441 - 
64  GLEASON  —  GRAY. 
4.  William  Segar,  son  of  William,  2,  b.  1809,  Xov.  1;  m.  1842, 
June  1.  Mary  Baker,  dau.  of  John.     Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1843,  July  13. 
GOFFE,  Anthony,  was  in  arrears  of  minister's  tax,  16S5-.  He  was  in 
Woburn.  I(i87.  ♦ 
GOODALE,  Amos,  on  tax-list,  17G9. 
GOODWIN.  1.  Thomas,  ni.  1754,  June  27,  Mary  Ditson,  dau.  of 
Thomas,  2.  Ch.  Bew'U  2.  Mary,  b.  1754,  Nov.  30;  d.  1781,  May  3, 
in  Woburn.      Thomas.  3,  b.  175G.  Dec.  9. 
2.  Reuel,  son  of  Thomas,  1,  had  ch.  Hhoda.  who  m.  1820,  JSTov.  30, 
Joshua  Keed,  of  Burlington.  Barbara  ni.  Daniel  Richardson,  (see  27). 
CaruUnc  and  ReneJ.  who'd,  about  1809. 
3.  Thomas,  sou  of  Thomas.  1,  b.  175C,  Dec.  9;  m.  1784,  June  3.  Lucy 
French,  dau.  of  Sanuiel,  15.  Ch.  LncAj,  b.  1787,  Oct.  6;  m.  1810,  Oct.  31, 
Lewis  Jewel,  of  Boston.  Xancy^  b.  1789,  June  8.  Nathaniel,  b.  1791. 
July  3.  Charles,  4,  b.  1793  (?)  27th.  J5e<se;/,  b.  1795,  Jan.  26 ;  m.  1833, 
April  4,  Benjamin  F.  Beard,  of  Wilmington. 
4.  Charles,  son  of  Thomas,  2,  m.  1814,  Sept.  20,  Isal)ella  Bowlend, 
dau.  of  Benjamin,  1,  [not  his  widow].  Shed.  1828.  July  22  aged  32;  he 
m.  1830,  Aug.  29,  Clarissa  Frost,  dau  of  William,  15.  Ch.  Charles  Henry, 
b.  1815,  July  16.  Isabella  Henrietta^  h.  1817,  Feb.  13;  m.  John  Crosby,  34. 
John  Theodore,  5,  b.  1819,  June  4.  Benjamin  Boiolend,  b.  1822,  June  1. 
Georqe  Wales,  b.  1824,  June  30.  Clara  Ann,  b.  1832,  Feb.  20.  Susan  Ellen, 
b.  1834,  Feb.  15. 
5.  John  Theodore,  son  of  Charles,  3,  b.  1815,  July  16;  m.  Mary  Ann 
Winter,  dau.  of  Stephen,  1.  He  went  to  California.  Ch.  Marii  Elizabeth, 
h.  1845,  Jan.  3. 
GORTON,  Abraham,  from  Roxbury,  son  of  John,  was  in  B.,  1683, 
or  before,  and  until  1696.  He  m.  1683,  May  21,  Mary  Sumner.  [^Savaqe^. 
Ch.  Mary,  b.  1684.  March  24.  John,  b.  1686,  March  9.  In  Billerica,  Sarah, 
b.  1687-8,  Nov.  22.  Rebecca,  b.  1689,  July  24.  Abraham  and  Mary  b. 
1692-3,  Feb.  28.  Abi-aham  d.  March  6,  and  Mary  d.  Dec.  18.  Abraham, 
b.  1696.  April  7. 
GOSS,  James,  of  Lancaster,  ni.  1761,  May  14,  Mary  Stickney,  dau.  of 
Daniel,  3.  She  m.  2d.  William  Gleason.  1.  Only  the  birth  of  Jeremiah  is 
recorded  in  Billerica.  Ch.  Mary  m.  Jonathan  Buck  ;  
lived  in  Windsor,  N.  H. 
James,  a  physii'ian  in  Gloucester  ;  
Representative  in  1832,  and  a  useful 
citizen.  lie  d.  1842.  Nov.  29,  aged  79.  Jeremiah,  b.  1769,  Sept.  3. 
Mehittable,  who  was  admitted  to  full  communion,  1796,  Aug.  7,  and  soon 
dis.  to  West  Cambridge  ;  
but  lived,  after,  in  Windsor. 
GOULD.  1.  Samuel,  was  in  town,  1685,  with  rates  due  to  the 
minister. 
2.  Henry,  of  Concord,  m.  1748,  May  12,  Lydia  Blaisdell. 
3.  Si-e  Durrent,  Reuben,  12,  for  change  of  name  of  his  son,  to 
Nathaniel  D.  Gould. 
4.  Joseph  Dudley,  son  of  Joseph  Dudley,  was  b.  in  West  Roxbury. 
1835.  Feb.  11.  His  grand-father  Jacob  m.  Lucy  Ruggles,  dau.  of  Joseph,  3. 
His  father  was  b.  1806,  May  17,  and  d.  1879,  April  19.  Mr.  Gould  grad. 
from  the  Lawrence  Scientific  School,  Cambridge,  1859,  and  has  been  in 
charge  of  the  extensive  Chemical  Works  at  North  Billerica.  He  m.  1866, 
March  28.  Elvira  Rogers,  dau.  of  Calvin.  2. 
GRAGG,  George  Watson,  m.  1856,  May  1,  Mary  Elizabeth  Cole,  dau. 
of  Samuel.  Ch.  ih'orge  William,  b.  1857,  Oct.  5.  Sarah  Elizabeth,,  b.  1860, 
Feb.  23.     Herbert  Marshall,  b.  1864,  Aug.  27. 
GRAY.  1.  Henry,  and  Mary  Blunt,  "both  of  Andover,"  m.  1699, 
May  13. 
2.  Braviter,  is  on  the  tax-list  of  1738,  the  son  of  Braviter  and 
Dorothy  Abbot,  of  Andover;  b.  there  1717,  July  19.  His  father  was  b. 
1685,  Sept.  29,  the  sou  of  Robert  and  Hannah  Holt.  He  m.  1743.  Sept.  6, 
Bethyah  Hill.  She  d.  1754,  Jan.  30;  he  m.  1757,  July  14,  Anna  Danforth, 
dau.  of  Jonathan,  5.     She  d.  1757,  Aug.  10;  he  m.  1759,  May  23,  Elizabeth 
 - 442 - 
GREENWOOD— HAMLET.  65 
Blanchard,  widow  of  John,  2.  Ch.  Joseph,  b.  1744,  July  1.  3fani,  h.  1745, 
Oct.  29.  Timothy,  b.  1747-8,  Feb.  25;  d.  1749,  Dec.  17.  Timoth]/,  b.  1752, 
March  28.     Jonathan,  b.  1754,  Jan.  3.     Braviter,  b.  1760,  March  23. 
3.  William,  son  of  Jonathan  (above)  was  b.  in  Tewksbury,  1792, 
Aug.  4;  m.  1846,  Jan.  1,  Abigail  Allen  Richardson,  dau.  of  John,  29, 
He  was  a  merchant;  d.  1868,  Oct.  3.  Ch.  Maria,  b.  1847,  June  25; 
m.  Dr.  Bickford.  Lucy  Ann,  b.  1849.  Sept.  24;  m.  1871,  June  29,  William 
J.  Clewly.  from  St.  Stephen,  N.  B.     They  live  at  North  Billerica. 
GREENWOOD,  Moses  P.,  b.  in  Needham,  1814,  April  13 ;  m.  1840, 
May  7,  Lucj"^  Jennison,  of  Natick.  He  lives  near  the  Concord  river  and 
Bedford  line.  Ch.  Harriet  Z.,  b.  in  Weston,  1841,  Feb.  7.  Ann  Augusta, 
b.  1843,  July  22 ;  m.  1869.  Dec.  28,  George  Bradford,  of  Canterbury,  Conn.  ; 
lives  in  Waitham.  Caroline  E.,  b.  1845,  May  13.  George  P.,  b.  1851, 
Sept.  5 ;  m.  1880,  April  14,  Alice  R.  Harding. 
GrRIMES,  George,  was  in  town,  1677,  but  it  does  not  appear  whence 
he  came.  He  bought  land  of  Tiuiothy  Brooks,  and  lived  on  the  Shawshin, 
near  Concord  line.  He  I'emoved  to  Lexington,  after  1708,  and  d.  there, 
1716,  July  28,  aged  76.      He  m.  1675,  April  15,  Elizabeth  Blanchard,  dau. 
qt  George,  {Wynian).'  Ch.  William,  b.  1677,  Nov.  11;  m.  Mary    ;  
in  Lexington.  Elizabeth,  b.  1679,  June  28.  Buth.  b.  1681,  July  4.           lived 
Jonathan, 
b.  1683,  June  22;  d.  1702-3,  March  2. 
GURNEY,  John,  of  Braintree,  had  an  early  "right'  in  Billerica,  but 
never  occupied  it. 
HAGGITT.  1.  Thomas,  and  wife  Susanna.  His  name  is  on  tax-list, 
1757  and  1758  ;  his  mother,  Mary  Granger,  d.  1757,  March  12.  Ch.  Susannah 
b.  1757,  July  13. 
2.     John,  on  tax-list,  1739  and  1740. 
HALE,  WUliam.  [Hail,  Haile,  often  the  form].  Was  granted  "one- 
quarter  of  a  ten  acre  lot"  in  1659.  His  home-lot  contained  24  acres,  "by 
the  east  side  of  Concord  river,  on  y"  west  side  of  the  highway  to 
Chelmsford,  between  the  township  and  y«  great  bridge."  This  was  the 
last  lot  this  side  the  ford  way,  and  was  beyond  John  Durrant.  He  was  the 
first  person  employed  to  "digg  y«  graves  "  in  town.  He  m.  1662,  Oct.  30, 
at  Charlestown,  Anna  Case  ;  
d.  1668,  May  20,  without  issue.  His  widow 
m.  Samuel  Trull.  His  to\%'n  right,  and  prob.  his  land,  was  in  possession  of 
Thomas  Pollard,  in  1708. 
HALL.  1.  Richard,  Jr.,  was  prob.  from  Bradford,  and  settled  in  the 
Tewksbury  part  of  the  town.  He  m.  1726-7,  Feb.  9,  Sarah  Pollard,  dau. 
of  Thomas,  1;  d.  1745,  Nov.  17.  Ch.  John,  b.  1727,  Nov.  5;  d.  same  day 
with  his  father.  Bichard,  b.  1729,  Sept.  20.  Olive,  b.  1732-3,  Jan.  4.  Asa, 
b.  1741,  Sept.  14. 
2.  Samuel  m.  1727-8,  Jan.  5,  Hannah  Kittredge,  perhaps  a  daughter 
of  James,  3.  She  d.  1750.  July  21;  he  m.  1751,  April  24,  Hannah  Sanders, 
of  Tewksbury.  Ch.  John.  b.  1747,  March  28 ;  
d.  1749,  Oct.  31.  Thomas,  3, 
and  Hannah,  bap.  1750,  May  27,  aged  20  and  18  years. 
3.  Thomas,  son  of  Samuel,  2,  b.  1730;  m.  1761,  April  15,  Lydia 
Keyes,  prob.  dau.  of  Joseph,  of  Chelmsford.  He  d.  1772,  May  10. 
Ch.  Lydia,  b.  1762,  Jan.  5.  Hannah,  b.  1763,  Feb.  14.  Isaac,  b.  1764, 
July  25.  Sarah,  b.  1765,  Dec.  25.  Aa^/jan,  b.  1767,  Aug.  6.  Elisabeth, 
b.  1769,  Jan.  27. 
4.  William,  aged  19,  received  baptism,  1755.  April  6 ;  also  Isaac. 
Jacob  and  Elizabeth,  1758,  May  7.  aged  19,  17  and  16.  William  m.  1764, 
Oct.  30.  Mary  Fletcher.  Ch.  William,  bap.  1765,  Nov.  10.  Stephen, 
bap.  1767.  May  31.     Abigail,  dau.  of  Nathaniel,  was  bap.  1778,  March  15. 
5.  George  H.  m.  Ann  Baker,  dau.  of  John.  He  is  a  mason;  lives  on 
Andover  street,  in  the  village.  Ch.  Alice  Baker,  b.  1861,  Dec.  27. 
Mildred  Ann.  b.  1863.  Oct.  14. 
HAMLET.  1.  William,  was  from  Cambridge,  and  received  a  grant 
of  a  single  share  in  1656.  His  house-lot  was  56  acres.  ••  
lying  at  y'=  north- 
east corner  of  Bare  hill,  and  on  y^  south  of  hogrooten  meadow  ;  
bounded 
 - 443 - 
G6  HAMLET— HARTSHORNE. 
by  Simon  Crosbee  on  the  west,  forty-nine  poles:  by  Thomas  Foster  on  j'* 
south,  and  liis  owne  out-let.  one  hundred  and  two  pole ;  and  on  ye  north  by 
Josei)h  Tomson.  sevent_v-tive  i)ole ;  and  by  Peter  Bracket,  sixty-five  pole 
and  a  halfe;  and  by  y^  eomons.  east.  This  ])lace.  now  Crosbj''s.  he 
exchanged  in  10711.  with  Caleb  F'arlev.  of  Woburn.  and  removed  to  that 
town.  He  was  one  of  the  early  Baptists,  and  letters  from  him  are  quoted 
by  Backus  He  Avas  b.  aliout  1()14;  m.  widow  Sarah  Hubl)ard.  (Paige) 
who  d.  1688.  Jan.  18.  aged  J)0.  His  ch.  bap.  in  Cambridge,  AvereJacofc,  2, 
and  Rebecca  m.  James  Frost.  2. 
2.  Jacob,  son  of  William,  m.  1668.  July  22,  Hannah  Parker.  She  d. 
1669.  April  26:  he  m.  Dec.  21.  Mary  Dutton.  dau.  of  Thomas.  1,  who  d. 
of  small-pox.  1678.  July  9.  He  removed  to  Woburn.  and  m.  ^lary  Jacjuith, 
widow  of  Abraham.  Ch.  Mary,  1).  1670.  Nov.  31.  Sarah,  b.  1671-2, 
March  18.  Hannah,  b.  1673.  Dec.  14.  liebecca.  h.  WlCj.  "Ol."  William, 
b.  1677.  Dec.  16:  d.  Dec.  23:  also  in  AVoburn  :  [Savage.']  Jacob,  h.  1680, 
Aug.  1 ;  d.  Josei)h.  b.  1681.  Aug.  31.  William,  b.  1683.  Sept.  8.  Jacob, 
b.  1685-6.  Jan.  4.      Henrt/.  b.  1687-8.  Feb.  6;  d.    Abicjail.  b.  1689.  March  25. 
HANAFORD.  1.  William,  prob.  son  of  Jolm,  who  d.  1843.  July  4, 
aged  79 :  m.  Mehittable.  The  first  three  ch.  were  b.  in  Xewburv.  Vt.  He 
d.  1836.  Dec.  22.  aged  37.  Ch.  Ira  K..  2,  b.  1820,  Sept.  23\  John  N. 
b.  1822,  Jan^l.  William  F.,  b.  1823.  Oct.  21.  Charles  JI..  b.  1825,  July  25. 
Frederic  P.,  b.  1831,  Dec.  8.  Elizabeth  Ann,  b.  1833,  Nov.  5.  Beuben, 
b.  1835.  July  26. 
2.  Ira  K.,  b.  1820.  Sept,  23;  m.  1842,  March  6,  Emily  Duren. 
Ch.  117// W7H  A'Wson.  b.  1843,  March  6.  Echcard  Warren,  b.  1845,  Oct.  27; 
d.  1847.  Nov.  28.     Lydia  A.,  b.  1851.  Dec.  20. 
HASKES,  Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Hannah,  a  negro,  b.  1759.  Jan.  14. 
HAJN8,  Charles,  or  Hanes.  m.  1761,  Jan.  8.  Mary  Chamberlain.  His 
name  disap})ears  from  tax-list  of  1770,  and  the  birth  of  Mollv  should 
prob.  be  1766.     Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1764.  Feb.  23.     Molly,  b.  1776.  July  24. 
HARD3IAN,  Judith,  m.  1815.  Jan..  Jonathan  Alexander. 
HARDY.  1.  Zachariah,  and  wife  Hephsibah.  Ch.  Mary,  b.  1729, 
Sept.  12. 
2.  Ebenezer  and  wife  Susannah.  He  was  among  -the  Carlisle 
petitioners  of  1757.  Ch..  perhaps  Phebe.  who  m.  Joseph  Nixon.  Susannah, 
b.  1756.  June  21;  m.  1778.  Feb.  12,  David  Witherbee.  Han7iah,h.  17oS, 
Oct.  29.     Ebenezer.  b.  1761.  Oct,  17,     John,  b,  1764,  July  1, 
HARRADOX,  John,  had  ch,  Jane,  b.  1703,  Dec.  5.  William,  b.  1706-7, 
Jan.  19. 
HARRINGTON.  1.  Hiram,  son  of  Isaac,  of  Lexington,  b.  1802, 
May  23 ;  m.  Fanny  Cook,  widow  of  Sears.  4,  who  d.  1873.  Nov.  18.  He 
did  not  m.  Sarah  Fiske,  as  stated,  [Lexington'].  Ch,  George  Hiram, 
b,  1845,  Jan.  14.     3Iary  Alvina.  b.  1846,  Oct.  13. 
2.  Zadock,  brother  of  Hiram,  1,  b.  1804,  Oct,  4;  m,  1828,  March  5, 
Almira  Fiske  of  Lexington.  She  d.  1834.  Jan.  22;  he  m.  Almira  Morton, 
and  before  1843,  Martha  Chapman.  Ch.  George  Frederic,  d.  John  Fiske,  d. 
John  Morton,  d.  Caroline  Harriet:  b.  1843,  March  6;  in.  Hiram  P.  Barker. 
Ellen  Jane.  b.  1845,  March  7;  is  in  Boston.  Henry  lives  in  Lowell.  Emily, 
b.  1850,  Dec.  17;  m.  Samuel  Richardson,  of  Lynn. 
3.  Daniel,  brother  of  Hiram,  m,  Mary  Morse;  now  lives  in 
Tewksbury,     Ch,  George.  Benjamin  Gleason.  and  others. 
and  4.  Abel  Wyman,  brother  of  Hii-am,  m.  Eunice  Flagg.  Ch.  George, 
others. 
HARROD,  Noah,  m.  1818,  Dec.  3.  Zoa  Shed,  dau.  of  Zaccheus,  22. 
Ch.  Xano)  Shed.  b.  1820.  Nov.  2.     Ellen  Maria,  b.  1823.  April  1. 
HARTFORD,  Daniel,  from  Dover.  N.  H..  m.  1837.  March.  Harriet 
Brown,  dau.  of  Jonas.  16;  d.  1870,  Aug.  17.  aged  59.  Ch.  Charlotte, 
b.  1837.  Mav  7.  Daniel,  b.  1838.  Oct.  22.  Dudley  b.  1840.  May  18.  Glim 
Sarah,  b.  1842.  Jan.  12.      Harriet,  b.  1844,  Sept,  24. 
HARTSHORNE,  Thomas,  was  a  miller,  in  town,  1694.   {Becords.  2 :  
55). 
 - 444 - 
HASKELL  —  HAZEN.  67 
HASKELL,  John,  Eev.,  son  of  Caleb,  was  b.  in  Xew  Gloucester.  Me., 
1818.  Feb.  11.  Grad.  B.  C.  1846,  and  Bangor  Theo.  Sem..  1849.  Ordained, 
Dover,  Mass..  1850,  Dec.  25;  dis.  1858.  Installed,  Raynham.  1859,  Jan.  5; 
dis.  1864.  April  12.  Acting  pastor.  Revere,  Mass..  Jewett  City  Conn.,  and 
;Jie\vcastle.  Me.  In  1876,"he  bought  the  place  on  Andover  street,  at  the 
fork  of  the  Long  pond  road.  "Since  1879,  May.  he  has  supplied  the 
Congregational  church.  He  m.  Lucy  J.  Dickey,  of  Bangor.  Me.,  and  1873, 
Nov.  18,  Annie  Parsons  Chase,  dau.  of  Capt.  Moses  Chase,  of  Newcastle, 
who  d.  1879.  March  20.     Ch.  John,  b.  1876,  Feb.  13. 
HASSELL,  Richard,  of  Cambridge,  freeman.  1647;  b.  1622;  came  to 
Billerica  in  1676,  and  made  proposals  to  the  tOAXTi,  Nov.  20,  to  take  up  the 
300  acres  of  land  granted  to  John  Stedman  by  Cambritlge.  The  town 
offered  him  £15  or  200  acres  of  land  next  to  Andover  line  and  Mrs. 
Winthrop's  farm  for  his  claim,  but  it  does  not  appear  which  he  accepted. 
In  1678,  April  12,  he  was  -^appointed  to  inspect  the  young  lads  on  y^ 
Sabbath  days,  those  of  them  that  sit  below  in  y^  meeting  house."  This 
was.  perhaps,  about  the  definition,  as  then  understood,  of  the  tithingman, 
and  in  1677.  he  was  one  of  the  five  tithingmen.  having  the  families  in  the 
center,  under  his  charge,  but  in  1679  his  name  disappears,  as  he  had 
removed  to  the  new  to^\^l  of  Dunstable,  where  he  was  a  leading  citizen. 
His  son  Joseph  m.  Anna  Perry,  and  his  dau.  Esther  m.  Obadiah  Perry, 
son  of  William,  of  Watertown.  and  in  1691,  Joseph  and  his  Avife.  their  son 
Benjamin  and  her  brother  Obadiah  all  perished  at  the  hands  of  the  Indians. 
HAYNES.  1.  Lyman,  from  Sudbury,  purchased  the  hotel  at  the 
corner  of  Andover  street,  in  1830.  Not  long  after,  he  exchanged  this  place 
with  T.  W.  Carter,  for  a  hotel  at  the  "'corner,''  where  he  remained  until 
1845.  when  he  went  to  North  Woljurn. 
2.  Tilly,  son  of  Lyman,  1,  b.  1828.  Feb.  13 ;  m.  1852,  July  16,  Martha 
C.  Eaton.  Has  been  in  "business  in  Lawrence,  Boston  and  Springfield;  and 
in  1879,  became  proprietor  of  the  United  Stotes  Hotel  in  Boston.  He  was  a 
member  of  the  House  of  Representatives,  1868-70;  of  the  Senate,  1876-7; 
and  of  the  Executive  Council,  1878-9. 
HAZELTINE,  Samuel,  was  the  son  of  Samuel,  and  b.  1680,  May  15,  in 
Bradford,  where  his  9  ch.  were  b.  He  removed  to  B.  about  1723,  living  in 
the  Tewksbury  part  of  the  town.  Among  his  ch.  were  Stephen,  on  tax-list, 
1733.  Samuel.  Judith  m.  Edward  Pollard,  2.  Sarah,  m.  Thomas  Man, 
and  Amy  m.  1732-3.  Feb.  20.  Henry  Richardson,  of  Chelmsford,  and  prob. 
Mam  who  m.  Samuel  Trull,  5. 
HAZEN,  Henry  Allen,  Rev.,  son  of  Allen,  and  b.  in  Hartford.  Vt.. 
1832,  Dec.  27.  [For  line  of  descent,  from  Edward  Hazen,  of  Rowley,  1648, 
see  iV.  E.  Hist.  Gen.  Reg..  1879,  April].  Grad.  D.  C.  1854;  Andover  Theo. 
Sem.,  1857.  Ordained  at  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt.,  1858,  Feb.  17.  and  preached 
in  Bridgewater  ;  
Barnard  ;  
Hardwick,  1859  ;  
Barton,  1860  ;  
West  Randolph, 
1861.  Installed,  Plymouth,  N.  H.,  1863,  Jan.  21;  dis.  1868,  July  15. 
Installed,  Lvme.  1868.  Sept.  2 ;  dis.  1870,  Sept.  30.  Installed,  Pittsfield, 
1870,  Dec.  22;  dis.  1872.  Nov.  30.  Installed,  Billerica,  1874,  May  21;  dis. 
1879,  May  4.  Trustee  of  Kimball  Union  Academy  since  1869,  and  of  the 
Howe  school  since  1875;  of  the  N.  H.  Missionary  society.  1872-4. 
Statistical  Secretary  of  the  N.  H.  General  Association,  1872-4.  Member  of 
the  New  Hampshire  and  of  the  Vermont  Historical  Societies  and  of  the 
New  England  Historic  Genealogical  Society.  Associate  Editor  Congrega- 
tional Quarterly,  1876-8.  He  has  published  (1)  Manual  of  the  Congrega- 
tional Church.  Plymouth,  N.  H.  (2)  Historical  Discourse,  Commemorative 
of  the  Centennial"  Anniversary  of  the  same  church,  1875.  (3)  Ministry  and 
Churches  of  New  Hampshire,  a  re-print  from  the  Cong.  Quarterly.  1876. 
(4)  Pastors  of  New  Hampshire.  1878.  Married,  1863.  July  9,  Charlotte 
Eloisa  Green,  dau.  of  Dr.  George  B.  Green,  of  Windsor.  Vt.  Ch.  Mary, 
b.  1864,  Nov.  23;  d.  1865,  Sept.  30.  Emily,  b.  1866,  Aug.  5.  Charlotte, 
b.  1868,  Nov.  6. 
 - 445 - 
68  IIEALD  —  HILL. 
HEALD,  Benjamin  H.,  from  Cailislp;  m.  1842,  Aug:.  ^-  Frances  Ann 
Bowers,  dau.  of  .lonafhan.  8.  They  live  on  AVoburn  street,  in  the  south 
part  of  the  villaije. 
HENCHMAN,  NatlianieL     Ch.  Anue.  bap.  1783,  Xov.  30. 
HENNESE,  John,  ni.  Sarah  Proetor,  1784.  Ai)ril  2. 
HENRY,  John,  is  first  on  the  tax-list,  174!).  Perhaps  descended  from 
John,  of  Topstield,  1690.  He  was  among  the  Carlisle  petitioners  of  1757. 
and  with  liis  son,  was  set  off  to  that  town  in  1779.  Ch.  John,  bap.  17.55, 
Sept..  who  m.  A))rgail  Monroe,  1775,  Nov.  30.  Snrah,  bap.  1757,  Nov.  6. 
Bdiii.  bap.  17(15.  .July  7. 
HEY  WOOD.  1.  "'I'lie  widow  huavwood  desired  to  have  her  children 
recorded. ■■     Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  170G,  Oct.  "  
Ebenezer.  b.  1707-8,  Feb.  5. 
2.  Benjamin  was  one  of  the  town  ofHcers,  1711-18. 
3.  Samuel   Smith.      [Name  spelled  also   Haywood  and  Hay  ward]. 
,  
m.  1758,  May  17,   Sarah  Johnson,  dau.  of  Josiah.      C-h.   Samuel^  b.  1758, 
Sept.  19.  Sarah,  b.  1760,  Oct.  28.  Josiah,  b.  1765.  April  16.  Waldo, 
b.  1767,  Oct.  6.     Ezra,  bap.  1771,  Oct.  27. 
HICKEL,  "WiHiani,  m.  1788,  Feb.  4,  Mary  Bonner.  Name  on  tax-list, 
1785-95.     No  ch.  recorded. 
HIDE,  Jonathan,  son  of  Jonathan,  of  Cambridge,  and  b.  there,  l655, 
April  1 ;  m.  1()73.  May  6,  Dorothy  Kidder,  dau.  of  James,  1.  He  left  town 
in  167.5.     Ch.  Jonnthnn,  b.  1673-4,  Jan.  24.     Dorothi/,  b.  1675.  May  26. 
HILDRETH,  Richard,  m.  1699-1700.  Feb.  6,  Dorcas  Wilson. 
HILL.  1.  Ralph,  was  early  at  Plymouth.  The  tradition,  in  his 
family,  that  he  came  from  Billericay  is  prob.  and  strengthened  by  the  fact 
that  there  was  a  clergyman  bearing  the  same  name  in  Essex,  1645-69, 
(See  David's  Annals  of  Nonconformity  in  Essex,  p.  440),    whose  wife  was 
Persis    ,  and  who  had  dau.  Sarah  bap.  at  Shalford,  1645,  Aug.  10.     In 
1650.  he  was  at  Ilidgwell,  "'a  godly  preaching  minister;."  afterwards,  at 
Pattiswick.  where  he  was  'ejected,'  and  in  16()9,  he  is  reported  at  Sheldon, 
"  having  a  conventicle  there."  Our  Ealpli  Hill  "of  Wellingsly,"  prob.  a 
locality  in  Plymouth,  sold  1643,  Sept.  16,  for  £12.  to  Stephen  Wood, 
house  and  garden,  ''upland  at  Wobery,"  12  acres  or  thereabout;  and  we 
soon  after  find  him  in  Woburn,  where  he  was  freeman,  1647  ;  
Selectman  in 
1649.  He  joined  in  the  settlement  of  Shawshin  as  early  as  any;  and 
lived  on  '  
the  farm.'  a  mile  south-west  of  the  village,  his  house  standing  a 
little  west  of  the  place  Avhere  Mrs.  Judkins,  his  descendant,  now  lives.  In 
April.  1663,  he  gave  the  town  one-half  acre  of  land  for  a  "  buring  place." 
and  on  the  29th,  he  died. —  his  own  liody.  doubtless,  the  first  to  be  laid  in 
the  old  'south'  burying  ground.  His  wife  d.  and  he  m.  1638.  {Savage.) 
Margaret  Toothaker,  mother  of  Koger.  1,  who  d.  1683,  Nov.  22,  aged  76. 
Ch.  Jane,  b.  in  England.  In  the  will  of  Ralph  Hill,  a  gr.-dau.,  Mary 
IJttlefield,  is  mentioned.  Francis  Littlefield.  of  Woburn,  and  his  wife  Jane 
had  a  dau.  Mary  b.  1646,  Dec.  14,  the  mother  dying  Dec.  20;  and  Mary 
Littlefield  m.  John  Kittredge.  1,  1664.  Nov.  That  JNlr.  Hill  had  this  daii. 
Jane  is  quite  certain.  Ralph,  2.  3Iartha.  Nathaniel,  3.  Jonathan,  4, 
b.  1646.  April  20.     liebecca  m.  Caleb  Farley,  2. 
2.  Ralph,  son  of  Ralph.  1,  b.  in  England  or  at  Plymouth.  He  had  a 
lot  on  the  township,  on  the  Andover  road,  where  I.  G.  Kimball  lived,  which 
he  sold  to  John  Poulter.  and  bought,  1656,  May  16,  of  William  Baker,  the 
"farme"  lot  south  of  his  fathei"*s.  His  house  stood  just  north  of  Mrs. 
Boyden's  place  and  was  one  of  the  "garrisons'  of  1675.  It  stood  with  its 
ancient  windows,  until  after  1850.  He  m.  1660.  Nov.  15,  Martha  Toothaker, 
the  dau.  of  his  step-mother,  and  d.  1695.  April  9;  his  widow  d.  1703-4, 
Jan.  4,  aged  about  69.  Ch.  Elizabeth  h.  1661,  July  28;  m.  1687,  June  2. 
Timothy  Baldwin,  of  Charlestown.  She  d.  1703-4.  Jan.  26.  Deborah, 
b.  1663,' Dec.  14 ;  m.  John  Sheldon,  2.  Bebecca,  b.  1666.  Aug.  14.  Samuel,  6, 
b.  1671-2,  Feb.  18.  Daniel,  b.  1674-5,  Feb.  22.  Hannah,  b.  1681,  Dec.  18; 
d.  1689.  Sept.  20. 
 - 446 - 
 - 447 - 
 - 448 - 
HILL.  G9 
3.  Nathaniel,  son  of  Ealph.  1,  
b.  prob.  at  Plymouth  ;  m.  1G67,  June  21, 
Elizabeth  Homes,  prob.  dau.  of  Robert,  of  Cambridge,  who  d.  1685,  Oct.  9.' 
He  d.  in  Chelmsford.  1706,  May  U.  Ch.  Nathanid.  7,  b.  16G8.  March  31. 
Halph,  b.  1669,  Oct.  14 ;  
d.  1742,  April  23.  His  will  provides  for  "30  gallons 
of  sweet  wine  at  my  funeral,  if  occasion  requires."  John,  b.  1671,  3Ia5^  27; 
prob.  ra.  1711,  June  22,  Elizabeth  Blodgett,  of  Chelmsford;  d.  1742,' 
April  15.  Joseph.  8,  b.  1672-3.  March  18.  Jonathan,  b.  1674,  June  27- 
d.  in  Chehnsford,  l7ll,  March  24.  James,  b.  1675,  Dec.  10;  d.  Dec.  2l! 
Elizabeth,  b.  1676-7,  March  13.  Robert,  b.  1678-9,  Jan.  23.  Jane.  b.  1680, 
Dec.  15;  d.  1711,  Nov.  15.  Anna,  b.  1682,  June  9;  d.  June  10.  Abifiail, 
b.  1683.  Dec.  26. 
4.  Jonathan,  sou  of  Ralph,  1,  b.  1646,  April  20;  m.  1666,  Dec.  11, 
Mary  Hartwell,  dau.  of  William,  of  Concord,  who  d.  1694-5,  Feb.  13. 
i'h/ Mary,  b.  1667.  Sept.  9;  m.  John  Fasset.  2.  Jonathan,  9,  b.  1669, 
Aug.  21.  Samuel,  10,  b.  1671-2,  Feb.  22.  Sarah,  b.  1674,  Oct.  10.  Joseph, 
b.  1683,  May  29. 
5.  Abraham,  son  of  Abraham,  of  Charlestown;  m.  1666.  Oct., 
Hannah  Stowers,  and  t4ie  birth  of  his  first  child  is  recorded  in  Billerica. 
He  lived,  after,  in  Maiden  and  Cambridge.  [See  other  children  and 
descendants  in  ''   Paige's  Cambridge"'].  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1667,  Dec.  12,  who 
ni.  Henrv  Jefts.  3. 
0.     Samuel,   son  of  Ealph,  2,  b.  1671-2,  Feb.  18;  m.  Deborah    . 
He  was  deacon,  of  the  chui'ch  and  Captain  of  the  militia,  thougli  often 
designated  corporal.  His  wife  d.  1748,  June  27.  He  d.  1755,  Aug.  4. 
Ch.  Deborah,  b.  1705,  Nov.  4;  m.  Samuel  Wliiting,  6.  Balph,  11,  b.  1707, 
Sept.  16.  Martha,  b.  1709,  Sept.  15;  d.  1747.  Aprils.  Rebecca,  b.  1711, 
Oct.  12;  m.  Isaac  Mai'sliall,  6.  Sarah,  b.  1713.  Dec.  11;  m.  David 
Baldwin,  10.  Samuel,  b.  1715-6.  Feb.  20,  perhaps  the  Samuel  who  was 
in  the  militarv  service  at  Fort  Dummer,  and  vicinity,  1748.  Hannah,  b. 
1717-8,  Feb.;'d.  1736,  May  15.  Ursle,  b.  1721,  April  23.  Elizabeth,  h. 
1723.  Sept.  16;  m.  Abraham  Jaquith,  2. 
7.  Nathaniel,  son  of  Nathaniel,  3,  b.  1668,  March  31;  m.  1706, 
Nov.  26,  Hannah  AValker,  dau.  of  Joseph,  1.  He  d.  1713,  Aug.  30,  and  she 
m.  Samuel  Dutton.  7.  Ch.  Nathaniel,  12,  b.  1707,  Oct.  3.  Hannah,  b.  1709. 
Oct.  3;  m.  Oliver  Pollard,  (seel).  Abigail,  b.  1714,  April  9;  m.  Joseph 
Pollard,  (see  1). 
8.  Joseph,  son  of  Nathaniel.  3,  b.  1672-3,  March  18;  m.  Susanna 
Baldwin,  dau.  of  John.  1.  Lieut.  Hill  d.  1752,  April  19;  his  widow,  1758, 
Jan.  15.  Cli.  Susanna,  b.  1704-5,  Feb.  18;  m.  Daniel  Proctor.'  Elizabeth, 
b.  1706,  Dec.  10;  m.  Benjamin  Shed,  8.  Joseph.  13,  b.  1708-9.  March  13. 
Mary,  b.  1710,  Dec.  6.  Jane,  b.  1712,  Nov.  7.  Ebenezer.  b.  1714.  July  11. 
John,  14-,  b.  1716,  April  18.  Jonathan,  15,  b.  1718,  April  28.  Esther, 
b.  1720-1.  Feb.  21  ;  
d.  1736,  April  27. 
9.  Jonathan,  son  of  Jonatlian.  4,  b.  1669,  Aug.  21  ;  m.  1704,  May  16. 
Mary  Bracket,  dau.  of  Peter,  2.  He  d.  1743,  Dec.  15,  and  she  m.  1744, 
Dec.  3.  John  Hartwell,  of  Bedford.  Ch.  Mary,  b.  1705-6,  Jan.  15; 
ni.  Daniel  Stickney.  3.  Jonathan,  16,  b.  1708,  July  23.  Peter,  17,  b.  1709, 
Oct.  10.  Elizabeth,  b.  1711,  May  14;  m,  Francis  Kidder,  (see  4).  Esther, 
b.  1712-3,  March  6.  Joseph,  b.  1717,  May  6.  Bethyah,  b.  1718,  July  16;  m. 
Braviter  Gray,  1, 
10.  Samuel,  son  of  Jonathan,  4,  b.  1671-2,  Feb.  22;  m.  1698-9,  Jan.  7, 
Sarah  Page,  dau.  of  Nathaniel,  1.  She  d.  1758,  April  30;  he  d.  1762, 
Feb.  17.  Ch.  Samuel.  18,  b.  1698-9,  March  1.  Sarah,  b.  1702-3,  March  28; 
m.  John  Baldwin.  9.  Joanna,  b.  1707,  April  6;  m.  William  French,  13. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1710,  Aug.  7;  m.  Ebenezer  French,  14.  Susanna,  b.  1715, 
May  26.     Mani.  b.  1717,  Dec.  10;  m.  prob.  Thomas  Dutton.  9. 
'  11.  Ralph,  son  of  Samuel,  6,  b.  1707,  Sept.  16:  m.  1732-3,  Feb.  1, 
Mehittable  Patten,  dau.  of  William,  5.  She  d.  1780,  Feb.  24,  and  he  m. 
1784,  Nov.  11,  Abigail  Sanders,  widow  of  David.  5.  Dea.  Hill  d.  1789, 
Feb.  13.     Ch.    Ralph,   h.   1733-4,   Feb.    22;  d.   1758,   Sept.  17.     Mehittabel. 
 - 449 - 
70  HILL. 
b.  1735-6,  Jan.  17;  d.  1753,  Jan.  19.  Hannah,  b.  1737,  Sept.  2;  m.  John 
Miller,  1.  Fatto,  b.  1740,  Wept.  1;  m.  17G3,  Nov.  8,  William  Page,  of 
Bedford.  Bathsheba,  b.  1742,  Aug-.  19;  ni.  17G6,  Nov,  6,  Benjamin  French. 
of  Dracut.  Naomi,  b.  1744,  May  23.  Timothy,  b.  174G,  June  9.  William,  19, 
b.  1748,  July  13.     Sarah,  b.  1752.  Nov.  4.     Solomon,  20,  b.  1755,  April  8. 
12.  Nathaiiiel,  son  of  Nathaniel,  7,  b.  1707,  Oct.  3 ;  m.  1735,  June  18, 
Abigail  Shed,  dau.  of  Nathan,  6.  He  d.  1737,  Nov.  1,  and  she  m.  John 
Hill.  14.  N.  B.  Abigail  Hill  ni.  1743-4,  Feb.  22.  Joseph  Hildreth.  of 
Westford.  Her  identity  is  not  clear,  and  she  may  be  this  Abigail. 
Ch.  Abie/ail,  b.  1735-G.  March  18.     Nathaniel,  b.  1737,  May  15. 
13.  Joseph,  son  of  Joseph,  8,  b.  1708-9,  March  13;  m.  Elizabeth    . 
He  d.  1781.  March  2,  and  she  d.  1805,  Nov.  18,  aged  80.  Ch.  Joseph,  21, 
b.  1749,  Aug.  28. 
14.  John,  son  of  Joseph.  8,  b.  1716,  April  18;  m.  Abigail,  the  widow 
of  his  cousin  Nathaniel.  12.  He  d.  17G2.  Dec.  28;  she  d.  1782.  Dec.  29. 
Ch.  John,  1).  1738-9.  Jan.  6;  d.  1740,  July  11.  John,  b.  1740,  Oct.  23; 
m.  17G5,  Jan.  25,  Abigail  Fessenden,  dau.  of  Samuel,  of  Lexington. 
Paul,  22,  b.  1742.  July  9.  Esther,  b.  1743,  Dec.  1 ;  m.  1770,  Nov.  15,  John 
Nickles,  6.  Nathaniel,  b.  1745-6,  Jan.  14.  Abigail,  b.  1750,  Nov.  19. 
Sarah,  b.  1754.  March  21.     Alpheus,  23,  b.  1756,  Oct.  14. 
15.  Jonathan,  son  of  Joseph,  8,  b.  1718,  April  28;  m.  1746,  Jan.  13, 
Mary  Lane,  of  Bedford.  She  d.  1772.  Oct.  24,  aged  47;  he  m.  1774, 
May  24,  Sarah  Whiting,  widow  of  Samuel,  10.  She  d.  1778,  Aug.  16, 
aged  42.  He  d.  1796.  April  7.  Ch.  Balph,  b.  1747,  Sept.  20;  m.  1777, 
April  9.  Mary  Jones,  of  Concord.  He  lived  in  Ashby;  d.  1831.  April  10. 
He  had  ch.  (a)  Job,  b.  1780,  July  7;  lived  in  Peterboro.  (ft)  Polly  b.  1782, 
Sej)t.  5 ;  m.  Fiske  ;  
lived  in  Montpelier,  Vt.  ;  now  living  in  Barton,  Vt. 
(c)  Brewer.  33,  b.  1784.  Sept.  16.  {d)  Elijah,  b.  1787,  July  15;  m.  Cynthia 
Lake,  Eindge;  d.  in  Ohio,  (e)  Betsey,  b.  1790,  Jan.  12;  d.  1800.  (/)  Phebe, 
b.  1792,  Aug.  13;  m.  Stephen  Wright.' of  Hanover,  N.  H.  ;  
lived  in  Berlin, 
Vt.  {g)  Nancy,  b.  1795.  May  18 ;  m.  Peter  Sloan,  Townsend.  {h)  Emma, 
b.  1798,  April  24;  m.  Stephen  Taylor,  of  Montpelier;  now  lives  in  Barton, 
Vt.  (i)  Abigail,  b.  1800,  Feb.  14;  m.  David  Poor.  Montpelier.  Mary, 
b.  1748.  Oct.  21;  m.  1777,  June  19,  Oliver  Pollard,  of  Bedford.  Ilartha, 
b.  1749,  March  4 ;  
d.  1750,  April  13.  Susanna,  b,  1750-1,  Jan.  22 ;  
d.  1817, 
Nov.  18.  Benjamin,  b.  1752,  June  30;  d.  1796,  April  10.  Job,  24,  b.  1754, 
May  29.  Lucy,  b.  1756,  Jan.  14;  m.  1814,  Oct.,  Isaac  Taylor,  of  Dunstable. 
Josiah,  32,  b.  1757,  Dec.  10.  Elizabeth,  b.  1759.  Oct.  13;  d.  1830,  May  20. 
Isabel,  b.  1761,  Dec.  3;  ni.  1785,  May  26,  Benjamin  Lane,  of  Ashburnham. 
Jonathan,  25,  b.  1763,  Sept.  28.  Jane,  b.  17G4,  Dee.  17;  d.  1775,  Sept.  14. 
Asubah,  b.  1768,  March  1 ;  
m.  Josiah  Snow,  (see  2).  Anna,  b.  1776,  June  11 ; 
in.  Abner  Stearns,  14. 
16.  Jonathan,  son  of  Jonathan,  9,  b.  1708,  July  23;  m.  Abigail    , 
who  d.  1738-9,  Jan.  6;  he  ni.  1740,  Nov.  6,  Lydia  Osgood,  of  Andover. 
Ch.  Abigail,  b.  1736,  Aug.  8.     Jonathan,  b.  1741-2.  Jan.  12. 
17.  Peter,  son  of  Jonathan,  9,  b.  1709,  Oct.  10;  m.  1735-6,  Jan.  20, 
Eachel  Crosby,  dau.  of  Nathan,  4.  She  d.  1736-7,  Feb.  11,  and  he 
m.  1745-6,  Jan.  30.  Abigail  Danforth,  widow  of  William.  15.  He  d.  1774, 
Aug.  12.  Ch.  Bachd,  b.  1736-7,  Feb.  4;  m.  Seth  Crosby,  22.  Peter,  26, 
b.  1747-8,  March  9.  Samuel,  27,  b.  1749-50,  Feb.  20.  Jonathan,  b.  1751, 
July  2;  d.  about  1772.  Betty,  bap.  1754,  July  14.  Jeremiah,  h.  1756, 
April  8 ;  
soldier  in  Revolution,  and  lived  in  Boston.  Bhoda,  b.  1757,  Dec.  15. 
David  iind  Mary,  b.  1761,  March  15.  David  was  in  the  Army,  and  lived, 
after,  in  Boston.     Mary  m.  Samuel  Blanchard.  6. 
18.  Samuel,  son  of  Samuel,  10.  b.  1698-9,  March  1 ;  
m.  1727,  Nov.  20, 
Abigail  Dunton,  widow  of  Nathaniel,  of  Charlestown,  and  dau,  of  Thomas 
Richardson,  3.  He  d.  1748-9,  Jan.  26.  She  d,  1768,  March  24.  Ch,  Abigail, 
b,  1727,  Nov.  20;  m.  Samuel  Kidder,  11. 
19.  William,  son  of  Ralph,  11,  b,  1748,  July  13;  m,  1775,  May  23, 
Betty  Abbot,  of  Tewksbury,  and  1784,  May  25,  Sarah  Lewis,  of  Concord 
 - 450 - 
HILL.  7 1 
Ch.  Sally,  b.  '1785,  March  10;  m.,  perhaps,  John  Brown.  19.  William. 
b.  1787,  March  5;  m.  1817.  Oct.  26,  Ann  W.Johnson.  Stephen,  h.  1789, 
Feb.  7.  Ephraim.  b.  1791,  June  5.  Sophia,  b.  1796,  July  16.  Nancy, 
bap.  1798.  March  11. 
20.  Solomon,  son  of  Ealph.  11,  b.  1755,  April  8;  m.  1779,  Dec.  9, 
Hannah  Blanchard.  dau.  of  John,  2.  Ch.  Solomon,  b.  1780,  Sept.  22. 
Hannah,  b.  1782,  June  30.  William  Parje,  b.  1784,  May  24.  Ralph,  b.  1786, 
April  24.  Jeremiah,  b.  1788,  Oct.  24.  Oliver  Crosby,  b.  1791.  July  15. 
Bemi,  b.  1794,  July  15.  AlJiaail,  b.  1797,  July  26.  Martha  Page,  b.  1800 
March  24. 
21.  Joseph,  son  of  Joseph,  13,  b.  1749,  Aug.  28 ;  ni.  Luev  Fitch,  dau, 
of  Zechariah.  5.  He  d.  1789,  Aug.  6,  and  she  m.  Peter  Hill,  2G.  Ch.  Lucy 
b.  1783,  March  2;  m.  1810,  Feb.  6,  Dr.  Joseph  Foster,  19.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1785,  Feb.  9;  d.  1791,  June  16.     Joseph,  28,  b.  1787.  Jan.  2. 
22.  Paul,  son  of  John.  14,  b.  1742.  July  9;  m.  1768.  Dec.  15,  Dorcas 
Wilson,  dau.,  perha])S,  of  Jacob,  4.  He  d.  1784,  Aug.  11;  she  ni.  Ejihraim 
Kidder.  15.  ('h.  Thaddens,  29,  b.  1769,  July  5.  Nathaniel,  b.  1770,  Oct.  1; 
m.  1809,  April,  Susanna  Hovey,  and  lived  in  Mt.  Vernon,  Me.,  where  he  d. 
1858,  Dec.  17.  He  had'ch.  Hiram  Hovey,  b.  1810,  April  30;  grad.  Bowdoin 
Medical  College,  1836,  and  is  a  distinguished  physician  in  Aiigusta.  Me.  ; 
Addison,  Xancy,  Louhania,  Henry  Baldwin,  Daniel  Chesman,  and  John 
Hovey.  Sarah,  b.  1774,  June  3 ;  ni.  John  Brown,  19.  John,  30,  b.  1776, 
May  30.  Abigail,  b.  1779.  Oct.  16;  m.  Samuel  Allen;  lived  in  Norwich, 
Conn.     Samuel,  b.  1782,  Sept.  16;  d. 
23.  Alplieus,  son  of  Jolm,  14,  b.  1756,  Oct.  14;  m.  1785,  Dec.  15, 
Martha  Manning,  dau.  of  Jacob,  13.  Ch.  Abel  and  Asa,  b.  1787,  Aug.  22. 
3Iartha,  b.  1790,  Jan.  16;  m.  1811,  Nov.  21,  Benjamin  Blanchard,  (see  10). 
Sarah,  b.  1794,  Jan.  11.     Asa,  31,  b.  1798,  Feb.  15. 
23i.     Samuel,  birth  not  on  record;  had  Samuel  bap.  1762,  Aug.  22. 
24.  Job,  son  of  Jonathan,  15,  b.  1754,  May  29;  m.  1790,  Jan.  19, 
Susanna  Blanchard,  dau.  of  Simon,  4.  He  d.  1842,  Feb.  5.  Ch.  Asenath, 
b.  1790,  June  3.  Job,  h.  1791,  Dec.  5;  d.  1814.  July  18.  Susanna,  hap. 
1800,  Aug.  24;  d.  1801,  Sept.  23.  Jonathan,  34,  b.  1795,  Dec.  22.  Daniel, 
b.  1797,  May  17.  David,  bap.  1800,  Aug.  24;  d.  Susanna  Lane,  b.  1803, 
March  7.     Lucretia.  h.  1807,  March  3;  m.  Sewall  Stearns,  (see  12). 
gfito.  Jonathan,  son  of  Jonathan,  15,  b.  1763,  Sept.  28;  m.  1798, 
Dec:  13,  Mary  Proctor.  He  d.  1815,  Jan.  29,  and  she  d.  1848,  Feb.  1. 
Ch.  3Iary,  b.'lSOl,  June  11 ;  
m.  1824,  Nov.  23.  Samuel  Butler,  of  Leominster. 
Anna,  b.  1802,  Oct.  15',  m.  1825,  June  2,  Jolm  Simonds.  Jonathan,  b.  1804, 
Nov.  24.     Eufus  d. 
26.  Peter,  son  of  Peter.  17,  b.  1747-8.  March  9;  m.  1793,  Nov.  7, 
Lucy  Hill,  widow  of  Josei)h,  21.  She  d.  1822,  July  10,  aged  69.  He 
d.  1823,  Feb.  21.     Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1795,  July  15;  m.  Benjamin  L.  Judkius. 
27.  Samuel,  son  of  Peter,  17,  b.  1749-50.  Feb.  20;*  m.  177-,  Feb.  21, 
Sarah  Parker,  dau.  of  John,  14.  He  was  killed  at  Bunker  Hill.  She 
m.  Samuel  Bowers,  6.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1774,  March  22;  d.  1775,  March  5. 
Abigail,  b.  1775,  May  30:  m.  1803,  Aug.  23,  Rev.  Mighill  Blood.  He  was 
b.  in  Hollis.  1777,  Dec.  13;  grad.  D.  C,  1800;  ordained,  Bucksport.  Me., 
1803,  May  12 ;  
dis.  1840,  Sept.  30;  but  resided  there  till  death,  1852,  April  2, 
a  faitliful  and  honored  minister. 
28.  Joseph,  son  of  Joseph.  21,  b.  1787,  Jan.  2;  m.  1808,  Feb.  18, 
Dorcas  Danforth,  dau.  of  Joseph,  22.  He  d.  1810,  July  5 ;  she  m.  Henry 
Bridge,  {seeS).  Ch.  Joseph  Foster,  b.  1808,  Dec.  22;  grad.  Harvard 
Medical  College,  1830;  practised  medicine  in  his  native  town;  d.  1849, 
Nov.  10. 
29.  Thaddeus,  son  of  Paul,  22,  b.  1769,  July  5 ;  m.  Sarah  ^\laite.  of 
Carlisle,  (li.  Ives,  b.  1798,  Sept.  13.  Achsah,  b.  1800.  July  5.  Sally, 
b.  1804.  March  21. 
30.  John,  son  of  Paul,  22,  b.  1776.  May  30;  m.  1804,  Aug.  26, 
Loruhamah  Davis,  of  Harvard.     He  d.  1821,  Jan.  30;  she  d.  1858,  Sept.  13, 
 - 451 - 
72  HILL. 
aged  73.  Ch.  XathanUl,  b.  1805,  Nov.  li;  d.  1871,  June.  Lnaj,  b.  1807. 
Oct.  23 ;  
lives,  unmarried,  in  yuffolli,  Va.  Darkly  b.  1809,  Aug.  19 ;  
d.  in 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y.,  1862,  March.  John,  b.  1811,  Aug.  22;  d.  in  Lov^^ell, 
1858.  Jan.  Dorcas,  h.  1813,  Sept.  10;  d.  in  Virginia,  1877,  June  21. 
Faid.  35,  b.  1815,  Nov.  23.     Loruhamnh,  b.  1817,  Feb.  26. 
31.  Asa,  son  of  Alplieus.  23,  b.  1798,  Feb.  15;  m.  Susan.  Ch.  Asa, 
b.  1824,  Feb.  15.  Susan  Elizabeth,  b.  1827,  March  22;  d.  Sept.  27.  Sarah 
Jane,  b.  1828,  Oct.  4.  John  Lawrence,  b.  1830,  Oct.  13.  Susan  Elizabeth, 
b.  1832,  Oct.  1.     Albert  George,  b.  1834,  Aug.  l£l;  d.  Oct.  8. 
32.  Josiali,  son  of  Jonatlian,  15,  b.  1757,  Dec.  10;  m.  1789,  June  8, 
Susanna  Davis,  of  Bedford,  and  lived  just  soutli  of  the  line,  in  that  town. 
She  d.  1818,  Feb.  15,  and  he  d.  1840,  March  15.  Ch.  Josiah,  36,  b.  1791, 
July  11-  Joseph,  b.  1793,  Feb.  23;  m.  Susan  Bacon,  of  Bedford.  ;  
d.  1831, 
March  7.  and  his  widow  ni.  1834,  Sep,t.  9,  Thaddeus  Cole,  of  Watertown. 
Elijah.  37,  b.  1795,  April  24.  Susaytnah,  b.  1798,  April  30;  m.  Joel  Fitcli, 
of  Bedford;  now  a  widow  in  Chicago.  Lucy,  b.  1800,  Dec.  12;  d.  1801, 
July  30.  Liicy,  b.  1802,  July  27;  d.  1807,  Sept.  25.  Artemas,  38,  b.  1809, 
Oct.  5.      Constantine,  39,  b.  1812,  May  18. 
33.  Brewer,  son  of  Ealph,  of  Ashby,  and  gr.-son  of  Jonathan,  15, 
b.  1784,  Sept.  10;  m.  1816,  Oct.  6,  Celinda  Carpenter,  of  Woodstock,  Conn. 
He  lived  in  Townsend,  Cambridge  and  B.  ;  d.  here,  1879,  May  14. 
Ch.  Laura  WiUiaias,  b.  1819,  Feb.  1 ;  m.  Jonathan  Hill,  34.  Susan 
Blanchard,  b.  1821,  March  12;  m.  Jei-ome  Bock,  of  Brighton;  now  of 
Burlington,  Iowa.  John  Brewer,  h.  1822,  Oct.  29;  m.  Mary  I.  Dutton,  of 
Bedford,  and  lives  in  South  Boston.     Charles  Henry,  40,  b.  1824.  Sept.  20. 
34.  Jonathan,  son  of  Job.  24,  b.  1804,  Nov.  24;  ni.  1839,  April, 
Laura  W.  Hill,  dau.  of  Brewer,  33.  He  d.  1870,  May  17.  She  lives  in 
Boston.     Ch.  James  Williams,  b.  1841,  Dec.  20.     Laura,  b.  1843,  Sept.  26. 
35.  Paul,  son  of  John,  30,  b.  1815,  Nov.  23 ;  
has  lived  in  Lowell,  but 
now  resides  on  the  east  side  of  the  common,  in  B. ;  an  extensive  contractor 
in  building  railroads  and  other  works.  He  m.  1845,  Oct.  9,  Behnda  Page 
Hadley,  dau.  of  Samuel  P..  of  Chelmsford.  Ch.  Elizabeth  Francis,  b.  1846, 
Sept.  22 ;  
d.  1854,  March  26.  Amia  Belinda,  b.  1847,  Oct.  13.  Frederick 
Paul,  b.  1851,  March  17.  George  Hadley,  b.  1853,  Oct.  3.  Ilary  Butler, 
b.  1856,  May  19;  d.  1863,  Aug.  21.     Mabel,  b.  1864,  July  23. 
36.  Josiah,  son  of  Josiah.  32,  b.  1791,  July  11;  m.  1812,  Nov.  26, 
Abigail  French,  dau.  of  Eeuben,  27 ;  was  ordained  pastor,  2d  chtirch, 
Methuen,  1832,  April  9.  and  installed,  Lynnfield,  1833,  Oct.  23.  He  is 
supposed  to  have  died  in  1862.     Ch.  Joseph,  b.  1813,  Oct.  17. 
37.  Elijah  Bacon,  son  of  Josiah,  32,  b.  1795.  April  24;  m.  Lucy 
Johnson.  He  d.  1865,  March  29.  Ch.  Emery  Elijah,  b.  1821,  Oct.  20;  lives 
in  Scranton,  Penn.  Sylvester  Silas,  b.  1827,  Jan.  8;  m.  Abby  Sargent; 
lives  in  Boston.  Horace  Josiah,  b.  1828,  Dec.  16 ;  
d.  about  1852.  Lucy 
Bebecca,  b.  1831,  Sept.  18;  d.  1877,  Nov.  14. 
38.  Artemas,  son  of  Josiah,  32,  b.  1809,  Oct.  5 ;  m.  Betsey  Eoby,  of 
Dunstable  ;  
lived  in  Carlisle  ;  
d.  1880,  May  15.  Ch.  Betsey  Lucretia,  b.  1833, 
July  9.     Dexter  Baby,  b.  1835,  Aug.  29.     Ann  Maria,  b.  1839,  Oct.  27. 
39.  Constantine,  son  of  Josiah,  32,  b.  1812,  May  18;  m.  Martha 
Pratt,  of  Dunstable,  and  Mrs.  Sarah  (Whitford)  Weber.  Ch.  Martha  Maria 
b.  1835,  Oct.  28;  m.  Samuel  Sage.  Mary  Ellen,  b.  1837,  Nov.  13;  m.  John 
DeCamp,  of  Cincinnati.  John  Henry  lives  in  Chester,  Penn.  William 
Warren,  b.  1845,  July  3.  George  Worth,  b.  1846,  Feb.  10;  m.  Anne  Brown, 
and  has  ch.  George  C.  and  William  H.  Sarah  Adelaide,  b.  1851,  Sept.  6. 
Josiah  Constantine.  b.  1853,  May  25. 
40.  Cliarles  Henry,  son  of  Brewer,  33,  b.  1824,  Sept.  20;  m.  1849, 
Dec.  16,  Martha  Whitford.  and  1861,  Oct.  26,  Apphia  Cordelia  Foster, 
of  Lowell,  b.  in  Ludlow,  Vt.  He  is  proprietor  of  the  leather-splitting 
machine  shop  in  the  south  part  of  the  town.  Ch.  3Iartha,  b.  1851, 
Nov.  19;  d.  Nathaniel,  b.  1862,  Aug.  8;  d.  1865,  Aug.  18.  Margaret 
Elizabeth,  b.  1867,  Feb.  8.     Foster  Byam,  b.  1869,  Aug.  7. 
41.  Betsey  Hill  m.  1798,  Feb.  13,  Andrew  Kimball. 
\ 
 - 452 - 
 - 453 - 
 - 454 - 
IIODGMAN  —  HOLDEN.  73 
HODGMAN.  1.  Abijah,  of  Carlisle,  m.  1801.  June  2ri,  Rhoda  Sprake, 
widow  of  Isaac,  8. 
2.  Abijah,  prob.  son  of  1,  ni.  1801,  Dec.  3,  Abigail  Dow.s.  dau. 
of  Benjamin.  5. 
3,  ■  
Polly  in.  1800,  June  20,  Asa  Karkin. 
HOLDEN.  Richard  and  Justinian,  brothers,  came  to  Watertown  in 
1634.  aged  25  and  23  years.  A  Sis.  family  record,  written  about  1800.  says 
they  had  brothers  Adam  and  William,  and  an  uncle.  James,  '^  one  of  the  lords 
of  England."  who  secured  their  release  by  the  Sherift'  who  had  arrested 
them  for  attending  '-a  dissenting  meeting,"  on  condition  tliat  they  would 
do  so  no  more  '-in  that  country."  Justinian  was  a  carpenter;  d.  in 
Watertown.  1691,  leaving  seven  children.  Richard  lived  in  several  towns, 
but  d.  in  Groton.  1690,  March  1.  Faige  names  nine  di.  of  Richard: 
Stephen,  b.  1042.  July  19 ;  
Justinian.  1,  b.  1644;  Martha,  b.  164o-6,  Jan.  15 ; 
Samuel,  b.  (Family  Record.)  1650.  June  8;  Mary;  Sarah;  Elizabeth; 
Thomas  and  John,  b.  1057.  The  family  record,  instead  of  Tliomas,  gives 
William  and  "'  Bathlamew,"  and  says  thei-e  were  six  dauglitei-s.  Sauuiel  m. 
Anna,  and  had  in  Grotoa:  Anna.  b.  1682,  March  1;  and'the  family  record 
names  other  children  :  Joseph,  Samuel,  Abigail  and  Mary.  Saiiuiel  had 
son  Samuel,  b.  1729.  Oct.  2;  m.  Martha  Call,  1751,  June  6;  lived  in 
Stoneham.  and  d.  1800.  March  12,  having  nine  children,  of  whom  were 
Thomas,  2,  and  Asa,  3. 
1.  Justiiiiait,  son  of  Richard,  b.  1644;  m.  Mary    .  who  d.  1691, 
May  15;  he  m.  Susanna    .     He  lived  a  few  years  in  Billerica,  and  his 
dau.  Susannah  was  b.  here;  but  in  1695,  he  had  a  difficulty  with  the 
tax-collector,  (Rec.  II,  p.  57,)  Avhich,  perhaps,  inclined  him  to  leave. 
Ch.  Mary,  b.  in  Groton,  1680,  May  20.  Ehenezer.  b.  1690,  May  11, 
in  Woburn.     Susannah,  b.  1694.  Oct.  16.  and  pi'ob.  others. 
2.  Thomas,  son  of  Sanmel,  of  Stoneham,  b.  1770,  April  11  ;  m.  1794, 
Oct.  12,  Mary  Munroe,  of  Wol)urn.  In  1802,  he  came  to  Billerica;  d.  1842, 
Dec.  14;  his  widow  d.  1847.  March  14.  Ch.  AUgaih  b.  1795,  Sept.  11 ; 
m.  Reuben  French.  31.  Thomas,  b.  1798.  May  14;  lived  in  Stoneham. 
Henry,  b.  1800,  April  8.  George,  b.  1802,  June  10;  m.  1841.  April  27.  Ellen 
Bennett,  dau.  of  Joshua,  3,  and  d.  in  Boston,  1876,  Feb.  They  had 
ch.  Rebecca;  Ellen;  Frances  Ann.  who  m.  George  H.  Tinkham  ;  and 
Joshua,  who  succeeds  his  father  in  his  extensive  business  in  Boston,  living 
in  Arlington;  Amasa,  b.  1804.  June  8;  accidentally  shot.  1813,  June  29. 
Mani  Ann,  b.  1806,  Dec.  26.  Artemas.  b.  1809,  Oct.  15;  lived  in  Boston. 
Amasa.  4,  b.  1813.  Oct.  12. 
3.  Asa,  brother  of  Thomas.  2,  b.  1773,  Dec.  11;  ni.  1795.  Julv  23. 
Sally  Miller,  and  1796.  April  5,  Polly  Richardson.  She  d.  1799,  Dec.  10; 
he  in.  1801.  Jan.  1.  Nancy  Wyman.  She  d.  1833,  Dec.  1;  he  m.  1834, 
July  10.  Elizabeth  Gould,  of  Stoneham,  who  d.  1841,  April  2.  And  he  m. 
Mrs.  Lawrence,  of  Medford.  who  d.  about  1855.  He  came  to  Billerica 
about  1804;  d.  1856.  Ch.  Asa,  5,  b.  1799.  June  28.  Nancy,  b.  1802, 
Sept.  21 ;  
d.  1808,  Feb.  10.  Isaac,  6,  b.  1803,  Nov.  9.  Perkins,  7,  b.  1805, 
March  3.  Benjamin  Franklin,  h.  1806,  Dec.  14 ;  a  manufacturer  in  West 
Concord,  N.  H.  :  d.  Daniel,  b.  1809,  April  20;  who  also  lives  at  West 
Concord.  Martha  Wyman,  b.  1811.  Aug.  10;  m.  1838,  April  22,  Joseph 
White,  of  Bedford,  who  d.  1872.  Sept.  13.  Nancy  Fichardsnn,  b.  1816, 
Dec.  22;  d.  1834.  March  5.     John  Wyman,  b.  1818.  Sept.  25;  d.  1819,  Oct.  6. 
4.  Amasa,  son  of  Thomas.  2,  b.  1813,  Oct.  12 ;  m.  Celia  Foster,  dau. 
of  Levi,  15.  She  d.  1858.  May  18.  and  he  m.  again.  He  d.  1876,  Feb.  29. 
Ch.  Martha  Foster,  b.  1842,  May  12.  3Iary  Munroe,  b.  1843.  Nov.  23. 
Thomas,  b.  1845,  Aug.  3.  Amasa  Albert,  b.  1847,  April  29.  George  Henry. 
b.  1849,  Jan.  22.  Warren,  b.  1850,  March  23.  John,  b.  1851.  Oct.  20. 
Walter,  b.  1853,  Aug.  6, 
5.  Asa,  son  of  Asa.  3,  b.  1799,  June  28;  m.  1824.  June  20.  Amanda 
R.  J.  Beard,  dau.  of  Benjamin,  18.  He  lived  on  the  east  road;  d.  1876, 
Aug.  25.  Ch.  Esther  Amanda,  b.  1833,  Sept.  7.  Asa,  b.  1847,  April  28 ; 
d.  1852,  Oct.  16. 
 - 455 - 
74  HOLDEN  —  HOSLEY. 
6.  Isaac,  son  of  Asa,  3,  b.  1803.  Nov.  9 ;  in.  Louisa    .     He  lives  in 
Lowell.  Ch.  Nanct/,  b.  1835,  Dec.  15.  Ellen,  b.  1842,  May  24.  Emiltj, 
h.  1847.  Julv  27. 
7.  Perkins,  son  of  Asa,  3,  b.  1805,  March  3 ;  m.  1833.  Jan.  16.  Harriet 
Munroe.  of  Woburn.    She  d.  1876.  June  17,  aged  70.    He  d.  1878,  March  30. 
He  lived  near  Shawshin  river.     Ch.  3Iary  Ann,  b.  1834.  April  5 ;  m.    
Lynde,  of  Stonehani;  now  a  widow  in  Billerica.  Boi/al  Atir/ustus,  b.  1836, 
Feb.  8;  il.  1843.  Feb.  13.  Richard  Perkins,  b.  1839,  May  15;  d.  1840,  Aug-.  2. 
Bichard  Perkins,  b.  1841,  SSept.  6;  d.  1848,  March  15.  Harriet  Irene,  h.  1848, 
Feb.  8. 
HOOD,  Jeremiah,  and  wife  Hannah.  C'h.  \Va7-ren  FifieJd,  b.  1831, 
Sept.  13.  Sarah  Sophia,  b.  1832.  May  14.  Harriet  Elkins,  b.  1834,  Feb.  14. 
Belinda  Ann  B.,  b.  1837,  Aug.  9.  George  \V.  Elkins,  b.  1839,  Oct.  6.  Charles 
Henni,  b.  1841.  Oct.  26.  William  Francis,  b.  1844,  Nov.  14.  Cynthia  Maria, 
b.  1847.  Sept.  9.     Abbey  Lizette,  b.  1849,  May  9. 
HOPKINS.  1.  William,  perhaps  son  of  William,  of  Roxbury.  and,  if 
so.  bap.  IGGO,  May  G.  In  1669,  Edward  Farmer,  then  in  England,  at  Ansely, 
took  a  deposition  before  Eichard  Hopkins.  Perliaps  William  Hopkins,  hke 
Thonuis  Pollard,  followed  Farmer  from  the  same  town  to  Billerica.  Settled 
east  of  the  Shawshin,  in  the  part  annexed  to  Wihnington  in  1737.  He  may 
have  had  older  ch.  These  are  recorded  here.  He  d.  1736,  May  16. 
C'h.  Hannah,  b.  1697,  Aug.  20;  m.  Seth  Levistone,  3.  Benjamin,  2, 
1).  1701,  May  23.  Sarah,  b.  1703,  May  26;  m.  Shnon  Beard,  (see  1). 
Bichard.  3,  b.  1707.  Sept.  25. 
2.  Benjamin,  son  of  William,  1,  b.  1701,  May  23;  m.  Hannah. 
Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1724,  April  29;  m.  1747,  Dec.  31,  in  Wilmington,  Jonathan 
Jones.  Benjamin,  b.  1726-7,  Feb.  10.  Deborah,  b.  1729.  April  24.  William, 
b.  1731,  May  11.  Ehenezer,  b.  1732-3.  Feb.  12.  Lucy,  b.  1735,  April  16. 
Lydia.  b.  1737,  April  16.     Abigail,  b.  1739.  Dec.  5. 
3.  Richard,  son  of  William.  1,  b.  1707.  Sept.  25;  m.  Sarah    .     She 
d.  1734.  Oct.  7,  and  he  m.  Hannah    .     Ch.  William,  b.  1729-30,  March  15. 
Bichard,  b.  1731,  April  10;  m.  Mary  Walker.  5'ar«/i.  b.  1732-3.  Jan.  6. 
James,  b.  1734,  Sept.  19.  Samuel,  b.  1737.  Nov.  29;  m.  1766,  July  3,  Sarah 
Crosby,  dau.  of  Francis,  15.  They  liad  Samuel,  who  m.  1786.  July  17, 
Hanniiih  Farmer,  dau.  of  John.  11.  Hannah,  b.  1740,  April  21.  Buth, 
b.  1743,  Oct.  15;  m.  Joseph  Coggin.     Jesse,  b.  1747,  June  17. 
4.  Samnel,  perhaps  son  of  William.  1  and  wife  Mary.  Ch.  Mary, 
b.  1733-4,  Feb.  13;  perhaps  m.  1757,  Sept.  2,  Samuel  Britton.  3Iartha, 
b.  1739.  May  22. 
HOSLEY.  1.  James.  Savage  says  ''Horsley,  James,  of  Newton, 
m.  Martha,  dau.  of  John  Parker;  had  Jame,s."  This  Martha  was  b.  1649. 
May  1.  in  Cambridge,  and  her  son  is  prob.  the  James  who  appears  in  B., 
1699.     He  m.  Mariah    ,  and  d.  1727-8,  Feb.  18.     He  lived  south-east  of 
Shawshin  river;  was  tenant  of  part  of  the  College  farm.  Ch.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1699-1700.  Jan.  18 ;  m.  Samuel  Danforth,  8.  James,  b.  1702,  May  19. 
3Iary,  b.  1704.  Sept.  19;  d.  1719,  Dec.  22.  Thomas,  2.  b.  1706-7.  Jan.  13. 
Joseph,  h.  1709.  April  26.  Esther,  b.  1711.  Aug.  2;  m.  James  Frost,  11. 
Eunice,  b.  1713.  Aug.  30;  m.  James  Laws,  1,      John.  3,  b.  1716,  July  28. 
Samtiel,   b.   1718-9,   Feb.   14;  m.   Elizabeth    ,   and  lived  in  Pepperell; 
d.  1795,  March  19 ;  
had  Aaron,  b.  1742.  April  22;  Betty;  Lydia;  Bridgett; 
Timothy;  Samuel;  Joshua;  John;  Lydia;  Stephen;  Martha,  who  m.  1782, 
Nov.  14,  Ebenezer  Sanders,  12,  and  Thomas,  b.  1764,  Nov.  21.  Benjamin, 
b.  1721,  jMay  6.     William,  b.  1723,  July  19. 
2.  Thomas,  son  of  James,  b.  1706-7,  Jan.  13;  m.  Martha  Richardson, 
dau.  of  Thomas,  3.  His  wife's  name  takes  the  place  of  his  upon  the 
tax-Ust  of  1773.  She  d.  1789,  Aug.  15.  Ch.  3Iary,  b.  1730,  Aug.  6; 
m.  Jaazaniah  Crosby.  20.  Thomas.  4,  b.  1731,  Dec.  15.  Martha,  b.  1733, 
July  7  ;  m.  John  Shed,  16.  Uriah,  h.  1734-5,  March  21  ;  d.  June  24.  Bette. 
b.  1736,  June  11.  Siyneon,  b.  1737-8,  March  3.  Abigail,  h.  1739,  Nov.  6; 
m.  Jonathan  French,  16.     Sarah,  b.  1741,  Oct.  25 ;  m.  1771.  Nov.  20,  Aaron 
 - 456 - 
HOSLEY—  HUNT.  75 
Hosley,  her  cousin,  of  Pepperell,  who  d.  1775,  June  5,  leaving  dau,  Sarah, 
b.  1773.  Jan.  18,  who  in.  John  Patten.  16.  Her  mother  ni.  John  Patten,  12. 
Bebeckah,  b.  1743,  June  11 ;  m.  1766,  Jan.  31,  Joseph  Johnson,  in  Woburn. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1745,  July  4.  Luoj,  b.  1747,  Nov.  18.  Hannah,  b.  1749, 
Sept.  21 ;  
d.  Oct.  6. 
3.  John,  son  of  James,  1,  b.  1716,  July  28;  m.  1749-50,  Feb.  1, 
Elizabeth  Tarbell.  dau.  of  John.  1.  He  d.  1754,  Jan.  2,  and  she  m.  Samuel 
Baldwin,  11.  Ch.  John,  b.  1750,  Aug.  22;  d.  Sept.  6.  Elizabeth,  b.  1751, 
Nov.  15 ;  
d.  1752,  Jan.  20.  Martha,  b.  1753,  July  3 ;  m.  1776,  Aug.  15, 
Jonas  Parker,  of  Lexington,  who  had  eh.  Patty;  Betty;-  John  and  Jonas; 
d.  1783,  July  14. 
4.  Thomas,  son  of  Thomas,  2,  b.  1731,  Dec.  15 ;  in.  Beulah    .     He 
d.  before  1763,  Oct.;  she  m.  John  French,  of  Tewksbury,  son  of  John.  9. 
Ch.  Beulah,  b.  1757,  Nov.  24. 
HOSMER.  1.  Leander,  (descended  from  James,  of  Concord,  the 
line  being  Stephens  John^  John*,  John^)  b.  1796,  April  5;  m.  Sophronia 
Wilson,  dau.  of  Isaac,  9.  His  ch.  were  b.  in  Bedford;  he  now  lives  with 
his  son. 
2.  Charles  Edward,  m.  d.,  b.  1837,  May  25;  grad.  B.  IT.,  1861,  and 
Harvard  Medical  College,  1867  ;  
practised  his  profession  in  AValthain,  4  years 
and  settled  in  Billerica,  1872;  m.  1867,  April  16.  Sarah  E.  Breck,  of 
Newton.  Ch.  3Iary  Agnes,  b.  1868,  April  7.  Victor  Jerome,  b.  1872, 
July  14.     Alice  Amy,  b.  1874.  July  9.     Maurice  William,  b.  1875,  Sept.  30. 
HOUSTOIV,  Mr.  Joseph  and  wife  Isabel,  had  ch.  John,  b.  1721-2, 
March  9. 
HOWE,  Zadok,  h.  d.,  son  of  Zadok,  was  b.  in  Bolton.  Conn..  1777, 
Feb.  15.  He  grad.  from  the  Medical  Department  of  Dartmouth  College  in 
1809,  and  began  the  practise  of  his  profession  in  Concord,  N.  H.,  where  he 
soon  became  distinguished.  In  1814,  he  removed  to  Franklin.  Mass., 
becoming  partner  with  Dr.  Nathaniel  Miller,  in  an  Infirmary,  which  was 
not  successful.  After  a  few  months  in  Boston,  he  came  to  Billerica  in  the 
autumn  of  1816,  and  spent  his  life  in  the  town,  useful,  eminent  and  beloved. 
A  good  account  of  this  benefactor  of  Billerica  may  be  found  in  the  Address 
by  Mr.  Whitman,  delivered  at  the  dedication  of  the  Academy  in  1852,  and 
published  with  the  third  catalogue  of  the  Howe  school  in  1872.  He  was 
President  of  the  Berkshire  Medical  Institute  at  Pittsfield,  and  of  the 
Massachusetts  Medical  Society.  Before  the  latter,  he  gave  an  address  on 
"•Fear,"  in  1831,  and  on  "Quackery,"  in  1847.  He  d.  1851.  March  8,  and 
by  his  will,  endowed  the  Howe  school,  of  which  account  is  given  elsewhere. 
HUBBARD.  1.  Thomas,  was  a  son  of  the  widow  Sarah,  who  m. 
William  Hamlet,  1.  Cambridge  Ch.  Rec.  (Paige)  speaks  of  him  as  '"now 
joined  to  the  ch.  of  Weatherstield."  But  he  received  a  grant  of  a  six-acre 
lot  in  Billerica,  1660,  Sept.  His  home  lot  of  32  acres  "lying  on  y« 
north  side  of  y''  township  and  on  y*^  west  side  of  long  street  ;  
bounded  by 
James  Paterson,  on  ye  south  ;  
by  Concord  river,  west  ;  
by  long  street, 
east;  and  by  John  Rogers,  sen.,  north."  After  his  early  deat^h,  this  place 
became  the  home  of  Samuel  Manning.  He  in.  1662,  Oct.  15,  Elizabeth 
Huit,  and  d.  Nov.  9,  25  days  after. 
2.  William  H.,  m.  d..  son  of  Rev.  Ochus  G.  Hubbard,  late  of 
Leominster;  settled  in  medical  practice  in  Billerica,  1877,  and  opened 
a  Dispensary.  1879. 
HUDDLESTON,  William,  and  Avife  Zebiah.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1807, 
Sept.  26.  3Iaria,  b.  1809,  Feb.  17,  at  Newton.  Eunice,  b.  1818,  Jan.  24,  at 
Westminster.  Caroline,  b.  1822,  April  19,  at  Salem.  William,  b.  1823, 
Aug.  14.  Zebiah,  b.  1825,  Feb.  2,  at  Salem.  Harriet,  b.  1829,  July  20, 
at  Hampstead.  Manj  Ann,  b.  at  Lowell,  1831,  Sept.  25.  Martha,  b.  1835, 
Aug.  4. 
HUNT.  1.  Samuel,  was  from  Concord;  son  of  Samuel,  and  b.  1657, 
Nov.  17.  He  appears  in  Billerica  in  1689,  living  near  the  Merrimack.  He 
bought  for  £50,   1691-2,   Feb.   18.   one-fifth  part  of  the  Winthrop  farm 
 - 457 - 
7G  HINT  —  III  RT). 
of  .WOO  ncrcs.  His  liouso  noar  WaiiH^sit.  was  a  garrison,  and  'Hunt's  Falls/ 
in  Lowt'll.  ixMpctuafc  his  name.  A  ferry,  near,  was  called  Hunt's  ferry. 
He  was  active  in  securiiii;-  the  incorporation  of  Tewksbury.     He  ni.  1678, 
JSIay  1.  Kuth  Tod.    She  d.'and  he  in.  Mary    .  
before  1089.    He  d.  1742-3, 
Jan'.  11.  Ch.  .S'«»»(r/.  2,  1).  1078-!).  Feb.  4.  ,/o/i«,  3,  b.  1080.  ElimhHh, 
h.  I(i82-:};  d.  108;").  ,Iuly  l.'J.  Jeremiah,  4,  b.  1685,  March  29.  Elizabeth, 
1).  1087.  .June  .'5;  ni.  Thomas  Farmer,  4.  Thomas,  6,  b.  1089.  Sept.  2. 
I'eter,  (>,  b.  I(i9().  May  0.  Joseph,  7,  b.  1694,  Sept.  21.  3Iary,  b.  1696, 
,Iuly  1;  m.  Ebenezer  Dows,  1.     b'usaivia,  b.  1699,  Oct.  2. 
2.  Samuel,  son  of  Sanuiel.  1,  b.  1078-9.  Feb.  4;  ni.  1702,  June  16, 
Sarah  Stearns,  dau.  of  Jolni.  2.  She  d.  1708,  Sept..  and  he  ni.  1709, 
March  :i\,  Anna,  the  mother  of  William  Stickney.  1.  He  d.  17;}8,  Oct.  V.i. 
Ch.  Sar<(h,  b.  1702.  Oct.  22;  m.  Enoch  Kidder,  7."  3Iari/,  h.  1704-5,  Jan.  12; 
m.  John  Trull,  7.  Thomas,  b.  1710,  Aug.  2,  and  d.  Nov.  iSavineJ,  b.  1711, 
Se})t.  20;  d.  in  Heath,  :Mass.,  aged  90.  Ann,  b.  1714,  April  8;  m.  1733-4, 
March  21,  Oliver  Fierce,  of  Clielmsford.  MehittaheJ,  h.  1710,  July  9; 
m.  1740.  Feb.  12,  Kev.  Sampson  Spalding,  the  first  pastor  of  the  church  in 
Tewksbury.  He  was  b.  in  Chelmsford",  1711,  June  2;  grad.  H.  C,  1732; 
ordained,  1737,  Nov.  23,  and  d.  1796,  Dee.  15.  His  widow  d.  1807.  March  3. 
They  liad  11  ch.  of  whom  Anna  was  the  wife  of  Rev.  Abel  Fiske, 
l)astor  of  the  church  in  Wilton,  N.  H.,  from  1778.  till  his  death,  in  1802. 
David,  b.  1719.  Nov.  19.     Jonathan,  b.  1722-3,  Feb.  25;  d.  young. 
3.  John,  son  of  Samuel,  1,  b.  1680;  m.  1716,  July  10,  Haimah  Flint, 
of  Reading.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1719,  March  5.  John,  b.  1721,  June  19. 
Nathaniel,  b.  1723,  Aug.  15.  ilary,  b.  172C?,)  July  6.  Eunice,  b.  1729, 
Jan.  29. 
4.  Jeremiah,  son  of  Sanmel,  1,  b.  1685,  March  27 ;  m.  Abigail 
Hazeltine.  dau.  of  David,  of  Bradford.  She  d.  1721-2,  March  19,  and  he 
m.  1722.  June  19,  Rebecca  Ballard.  She  d.  1729,  Sept.  21  and  he  m.  1731, 
Aug.  12,  Mary  Stewart,  of  Rowlev.  He  d.  1737.  Ch.  Abiqail,  b.  1710, 
Dec.  1.  Dorcas,  b.  1711-2,  Feb.  VS.'  Jeremiah,  b.  1713,  Aprir29;  d.  1717. 
Nov.  28.  liebecca,  b.  1714-5.  Jan.  10;  d.  1719,  May.  Thomas,  b.  1716, 
April  23,  David,  b.  1717;  d.  1717-8,  Feb.  20.  Elizabeth,  b.  1718,  Nov.  17. 
Jeremiah,  b.  172t),  Sept.  2;  m.  1747,  Nov.  16.  Hannah  Flint,  of  Concord. 
William,  b.  1723.  May  26.  Rebecca,  b.  1724,  Oct.  Sherebiah,  b.  1720, 
April  1.     Sarah,  b.  1732,  Aug.  15. 
5.  Thomas,  son  of  Sanmel,  1,  b.  1089,  Sept.  2;  m.  Sarah  Crosby, 
perliaps  dau.  of  Joseph,  3.  He  d.  1709,  Sept.  10,  and  his  widow  m. 
1715-6.  Jan.  11.  Ephraim  Abbot,  of  Andover,  brother  of  Joshua,  1, 
Ch.  ,Sar(fh.  b.  1709,  Nov.  20;  m.  John  Whiting,  5. 
6.  Peter,  son  of  Samuel,  1,  b.  1690,  May  6;  m.  1715,  Oct.  25,  Mary 
Sheldon,  dau.  of  John.  2.  Ch.  3Iary,  b.'  1716,  Nov.  24.  Deborah, 
b.  1718,  July  2.  Feter,  b.  1720,  May  2;  Capt.  Co.  8,  of  9th  Mass.  Regt.,  at 
Louisburg,  1745.  Martha,  b.  1722,  Oct.  15.  Tamar,  b.  1724,  Oct.  10. 
Hannah,  b.  1727.  Nov.  13.  Timothy,  b.  1730-1,  Feb.  6;  d.  1755,  /\pril  10. 
Lydia,  b.  1735,  May  8. 
7.  Joseph,  son  of  Samuel,  1,  b.  1694,  Sept.  21;  m.  1724,  July  16, 
Jemima  Russell,  of  Andover.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1725,  Dec.  23.  Joseph, 
b.  1728,  May  11.     Amos,  b.  1729,  Nov.  25.     liobert,  b.  1731-2.  Jan.  20. 
HURD.  1.  Isaac,  was  a  physician;  m.  1778,  Sept.  24.  Sarali 
Tompson,  dau.  of  William,  3.  She  d.  1789.  June  1.  Ch.  William  Tompson., 
b.  1779,  June  14.  Sally,  b.  1780,  Dec.  21.  Isaac,  3,  b.  1782,  July  12. 
Betsey,  b.  1785.  Sept.  2.  Benjamin,  b.  1787,  Aug.  24.  Lricy,  h.  1789, 
May  9;  d.  July  16. 
2.  Benjamin,  and  wife  Mary.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1781.  July  12.  John, 
b.  1783,  May  15.     Isaac,  b.  1785,  May  15.     Nabby,  b.  1787,  April  12. 
3.  Isaac,  son  of  Isaac,  1,  or  Benjamin,  2,  m.  Mary    .      Ch.  Isaac 
Wilder,  b.  1811,  Nov.  3.  John  White,  "b.  1813,  Aug.  10."  Ebenezer  Heald, 
b.  1815,  May  28. 
 - 458 - 
 - 459 - 
 - 460 - 
HUSSEY— JAQUITH.  77 
HUSSEY,  Christoplier  Coffin,  Eev.,  son  of  Allw-rt.  was  b.  in 
Nantucket.  1820.  June  TJ ;  clescendent  of  Stephen  Bachiler  Hussey,  whose 
father.  Christoplier,  eanie  from  Dorking,  in  Surrey.  1032.  and  *  
Lynn.  Newbury  and  Hani])ton.  He  had  ni.  in  England,  Theodate.  lived  in 
dau.  of 
Rev.  Stephen  Bachiler,  of  Lynn  and  Hampton,  and  was  sliipwrecked.  if 
the  story  is  credible,  on  the  coast  of  Florida,  1686,  March  6.  nearly  90  years 
old.  Mr.  Hussey's  ancestry  on  both  sides  were  Quakers,  antl  he  began  his 
ministry  ani(mg  them.  But.  with  a  change  of  views,  he  became  the  first 
pastor  "of  the  Unitarian  Church,  in  North  Easton,  1860.  He  became  pastor 
of  the  First  church,  in  Billerica,  in  1866,  and  still  holds  that  position. 
He  has  been  a  Member  of  the  Mass.  Board  of  Education,  since  1874.  He 
m.  1843.  Lydia  C.  Coffin,  a  descendent  of  Tristram  Coffin,  of  Newbury, 
who  was  associated  with  Christopher  Hussey  and  seven  others,  in  the 
original  purchase  of  Nantucket,  where  he  d.  1681,  Oct.  3.  She  was  b.  there, 
182o,  Jan.  1.  Ch.  Elizabeth  Starbuck,  b.  1844.  Jan.  1;  d.  1860,  Oct.  10. 
Dora  Coffin,  b.  1848.  Dec.  28;  m.  1869,  Sept.  8,  George  Adams,  of  Lowell. 
Martha  Swain,  b.  1850.  March  5.   Ass.  Principal  of  th"eHowe  school.  1875-7. 
HUTCHINS,  John,  and  wife  Lucy.  Ch.  Lzicy  Jane,  b.  1830,  Aug.  30. 
JohJi  Everett,  b.  1838,  A])ril  27. 
HUTCHINSON,  Nathan,  ''of  Bedford,:'  m.  1741,  April  16,  Rachel 
Stearns,  dau.  of  Samuel.  6.  His  name  disappears  from  tax-list,  1750,  but 
his  farm  was  included  in  projjosed  bounds  of  Carlisle.  1772.  Ch.  Nathan, 
b.  1741.  Aug.  4.  RacJiel.  b.  1743-4,  Jan.  2.  Benjamin,  b.  1746,  Oct.  5. 
Samnel.  b.  1749.  April  12. 
Nathiiniel,  son  of  Samuel,  of  Charlestown,  d.  1734,  May  30. 
HUTSON,  Nnthauiel,  (usually  Hudson.)  was  a  town  officer,  1719, 
and  had  pro)),  lived  in  the  south  part  of  the  town,  for  some  years  previous. 
No  ch.  on  record  here. 
Ch.  INGLES,  James,  "of  Bedford."  m.  1788,  March  13,  Margaret  Bonner. 
James,  b.  1790,  Nov.  10. 
JAQUITH.  1.  Abraham  was  b.  1701,  Dec.  30.  His  father,  Abraham, 
was  son  of  Abraham,  of  Charlestown,  1643,  and  lived  in  the  part  of 
Woburn  which  became  Wilmington.  Two  daughters  of  the  second 
Abraham  had  m.  the  brothers  Durrant,  John,  2,  and  Thomas,  3,  before 
their  nephew  m.   1726-7,   Jan.    13.   Hannah  Farley,  dau.  of  Ebenezer,  5. 
She  d.  1753,  April  16,  and  he  m.  Sarah    ,  who  d.  1776,  Nov.  17,   aged 
70.  He  d.  1790.  Jan.  7.  Ch.  Abraham.  2,  b.  1726.  in  Woburn.  Sebecca, 
b.  in  Billerica,  1728-9,  March  20;  m.  Benjamin  Needham.  3.  Hannah, 
b.  1730.  Dec.  22;  m.  Samuel  Shed,  14.  Ebenezer,  3,  b.  1732,  Dec.  24. 
Timotht/.  b.  1734,  Sept.  9;  d.  Nov.  25.  Sarah,  b.  1735,  Dec.  18. 
Benjamin.  4,  b.  1737-8,  Feb.  28.  Elizabeth,  b.  1739-40,  Feb.  26;  m. 
Nicholas  Danforth,  20.  Abi(/ail.  b.  1742,  May  28;  m.  Jesse  French,  23. 
Timothi/,  5,  b.  1743-4.  March  6.  Joseph.  6,  b.  1745.  July  7.  3Jary,  b.  1747, 
June  2(3;  m.  1767.  July  9,  Paul  Fitch,  "of  Fitch  Buge"  ;  
lived,  also,  in 
Rindge;  d.  1800,  Feb.  18. 
2.  Abraham,  son  of  Abraham.  1,  b.  1726;  m.  1755,  March  13, 
Elizal)eth  Hill,  dau.  of  Samuel,  6.  He  removed  to  Fitchburg,  1779;  d.  1802, 
Oct.  15.^  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1756,  April  15.  Sarah,  b.  1757,  Oct.  29. 
Iiebecca,'h.  1759,  Jan.  17.  Abraham,  b.  1760,  June  15.  Hannah,  b.  1762, 
April  8;  d.  Sept.  4.  Isaac,  b.  1763,  Oct.  19;  d.  Oct.  21.  Jacob,  b.  1765, 
Sept.  22. 
3.  Ebenezer,  son  of  Abraham.  1,  b.  1732.  Dec.  24;  m.  1758,  Jan.  19, 
Ester  French,  dau.  of  Ebenezer,  14.  He  removed  about  1781,  to  JaflVey, 
N.  H.;  d.  1802,  Dec.  29.  Ch,  Ebenezer,  b.  1758.  Nov.  20.  Sanmel,  b.  1760, 
Oct.  6.-  Ester,  b.  1762,  Oct.  2.  Jesse,  b.  1764,  Nov.  27.  Hannah,  b.  1766, 
Nov.  12;  m.  Isaac  Marshall,  10.  Olive,  b.  1768.  Oct.  19.  Abigail,  b.  1773, 
July  31  ;  m.  Eldad  Whiting,  15.  Betsey,  b.  1777,  July  15.  Jiispa,  b.  1779, 
Nov.  16.     Levi,  b.  1781,  Dec.  11. 
4.  Benjamin,  son  of  Abraham,  1,  b.  1737-8,  Feb.  28;  m.  1765, 
June  27.  Phebe  Marshall,  dau.  of  Isaac,  6.  He  removed  to  JaUrey,  N.  H., 
about  1768;  d.  1810,  Feb.  11.     Ch.  Benjamin,  b.  1766,  April  13. 
 - 461 - 
78  J  
AQUITH — JEFTS . 
5.  Timothy,  son  of  Abraham,  1,  b.  1743-4,  March  6 ;  
m.  1763,  Oct.  18, 
Eunice  Corey,  and  1788,  Sept.  11.  Mirriani  Fitch,  dau.  of  Benjamin,  3. 
He  d.  1824.  x\u<i:.  (;h.  Julia,  b.  17G4,  May  27.  Timothi/,  b.  1765," Sept.  27; 
m.  1788.  May  29,  Abigail  Lewis,  of  Bedford.  Moses,  7,  b.  1767,  Oct.  29. 
Aaron,  b.  1769,  Nov.  15.  Willard,  b.  1773,  April  16.  Asa,  b.  1775,  May  20. 
AlUce,  b.  1779,  Nov.  30. 
6.  Joseph,  son  of  Abraham,  1,  b.  1745,  July  7;  m.  1770,  Jan.  16, 
Elizabeth  Needhain,  dau.  of  John,  (see  1).  He  was  at  Lexington..  19  April, 
1775.  His  wife  d.  1820,  Nov.  7,  aged  72.  He  d,  1827,  March  7. 
Ch.  Joseph,  8,  b.  1771,  March  26.  Elizabeth,  b.  1772,  Sept.  9;  m.  Peter 
French,  24i.  Prude,  b.  1774,  Dec.  3;  d.  1788.  June  22.  Jtida,  b.  1777, 
Feb.  2;  m.  1798,  May  29,  Asa  Abbot,  of  Andover;  d.  1843,  July  15.  Of 
her4ch.,  Sereno  Timothy  Abbot,  grad.  A.  C,  1833,  and  Andover,  1836; 
ordained,  1837,  July  12,  over  the  church  at  Seabrook  and  Hampton  Falls, 
N.  H.,  and  d.  in  office,  1855,  March  28,  aged  47.  Hannah,  b.  1779, 
March  31;  d.  1815,  March  23.  JVabbe,  b.  1782,  July  17;  d.  1784,  Jan.  19. 
Salle,  b.  1784,  Sept.  22;  d.  1788,  Feb.  18.  Abigail,  b.'l788,  May  15;  d.  1844, 
Oct.  8. 
7.  Moses,   son  of   Timothy,   6,  b.   1767,   Oct.   29;  m.  Joanna    . 
Ch.   Anna,   b.   1788.   June  2.     Moses,   b.   1790,  Aug.  19;  lived  in  Boston  ; 
d.  1869.     PoWf.  b.  1792,  Sept.  20.     Sally,  b.  1794.  Sept.  18. 
8.  Joseph,  son  of  Joseph,  6.  b.  1771,  March  26;  m.  1797,  March  5, 
Susanna  French,  dau.  of  Jonas,  20.  He  d.  1829,  April  7.  and  she  d.  1854, 
July  12.  Ch.  Susanna,  b.  1797.  Dec.  27;  m.  1820.  June  22,  Moses  Abbot, 
of  Bedford.  Franklin,  9,  b.  1800,  Jan.  20.  Merrick,  b.  1802,  Feb.  4; 
m.  1830,  April  8,  Permelia  dau.  of  Swethern  Keed.  of  Lexington.  She 
d.  1875,  Jan.  20,  age  71.  Caroline,  b.  1804,  March  2;  m.  Stephen  Parker, 
{see  18).  Louisa,  b.  1806,  Jan.  30;  d.  1870,  May  31.  Lydia  Page,  b.  1808, 
Feb.  23 ;  m.  1828,  Nov.  27,  George  Dutton,  of  Bedford.  Artemas,  b.  1809, 
Oct.  22;  d.  1851,  Aug.  2.  Ann,  b.  1814,  July  5;  ni.  1835.  April  16,  George 
Simonds,  of  Bedford;  d.  1870.  Oct.  9.  Christopher  Page,  b.  1817,  Oct.  3; 
m.  Lydia  Prescott,  of  Brighton,  and  had  Thaddeus,  b.  1842,  ]\Iay  19,  who 
m.  1866,  Nov.,  Annie  P.  Biigham,  of  Woodstock,  Conn.,  and  d.  in  Chelsea, 
1877.  March  13. 
9.  Franklin,  son  of  Joseph,  8,  b.  1800,  Jan.  20;  m.  1831,  June  26, 
Lucy  Walker,  dau.  of  Samuel,  of  Burlington.  He  lived  in  the  house  east 
of  the  Bedford  road,  where  the  Middlesex  turnpike  crosses  it.  The  ancient 
house,  opposite,  in  which  his  brother  Merrick  lives,  has  been  long  the 
family  home.  He  d.  1876,  Dec.  1.  Ch.  Ellen,  b.  1832.  Sept.  10.  Albinia, 
b.  1834,  June  4;  m.  1857,  Sept.  10,  Jerome  Peirce,  of  Charlestown,  who 
was  killed  at  Spottsylvania,  Va.,  1864,  May  12,  aged  33.  A  dau.  Lucy 
Sherwin,  b.  1859,  Dec.  26,  is  a  graduate  of  the  Howe  school,  and  of  the 
Salem  Normal  school.  Abigail,  b.  1836,  Feb.  3.  Lucy  Walker,  b.  1838, 
Feb.  18;  d.  1841,  July  26.  Franklin,  b.  1839,  Dec.  27;  a  faithful  soldier  in 
the  War  of  the  Southern  Eebellion,  and  compiler  of  the  careful  list  of 
soldiers  and  sailers  from  Billerica,  found  elsewhere.  Mary  Frances, 
b.  1841,  Nov.  20;  m.  1870,  June  9,  Nathaniel  D.  P.  Foster.  Joseph,  b.  1842, 
Dec.  3;  m.  1872,  Jan.  10,  Annah  Baldwin,  dau.  of  Joel.  26.  Harriet 
Walker,  b.  1845.  Feb.  20;  m.  1864,  Feb.  3,  William  C.  Clark,  of  Chelsea, 
and  1875,  Aug.  3,  Charles  A.  Drew,  of  Chelsea. 
JEFTS.  1.  Henry,  was  from  Woburn;  one  of  the  Dudley  farm 
purchasers  and  first  settlers  of  Billerica.  His  home  was  first  near  Indian 
hill,  north  of  Nutting's  pond,  but  after  his  marriage  with  Mrs.  Bird,  he 
lived  west  of  Long  street,  near  the  corner.  He  m.  1647.  Sept.  13,  Ann 
Stowers.  and  2d,  Hannah  Births.  She  d.  1662,  Sept.  15,  .and  he  m.  1666, 
Oct.  3.  Mary  Bird,  widow  of  Simon.  She  d.  1679,  April  1,  and  he  m.  1681, 
May  5,  Mary  Baker,  widow,  of  Concord.  He  d.  1700,  May  24,  aged 
about  94.  Ch.  John,  2,  b.  in  Woburn,  1651,  May  11.  Hannah,  who  d. 
''first  M-eek"  of  May,  1653;  the  first  death  in  town.  Hannah,  b.  1654-5, 
Feb.  4,  the  first  female  b.  into\\Ti;  m.  Andrew  Spalding,  of  Chelmsford. 
Joanna,  b.  1656,  Mav  24;  m.  John  Dunkin,  1;  killed  by  Indians.  1692. 
Henry,  %,  b.  1658-9,  March  21, 
 - 462 - 
JEFTS— JONES.  79 
2.  John,   son  of  Henry,    1,   b.   1651,   May  11;  m.  Lydia    .     She 
d.  1712,  Sept.  8,  and  he  d.  Sept.  28.  Ch.  Henry.  4,  b.  1688-9,  Jan.  16. 
Alice,  b.  1691,  Sept.  7;  m.  1716,  Dec.  11,  Joseph  Baker,  of  Concord. 
Hannah,  b.  1694,  Aua;  18;  d.  1712.  July  2.  John,  b.  1696,  Dec.  19;  d.  1725, 
May  8.  NathanieUh.im),  March  29.  William,  b.  1700-1.  March  17; 
d.  1738.  Sept.  30.  Ebenezer,  b.  1702-3.  Jan.  28 ;  m.  Ehzabeth  Farnsworth, 
and  hved  in  Groton. 
3.  Henry,  son  of  Henry,  1,  b.  1658-9,  March  21 ;  
m.  1681,  Aprill3, 
3rary  Baldwin,  dau.  of  John.  1.  She  d.  1703,  Sept.  22,  and  he 
m.  1704.  Nov.  9.  Hannah  Hill,  dau.  of  Abraham,  5.  He  d.  1738,  May  20. 
Ch.  Mary,  b.  1683,  Sept.  23;  m.  1702-3.  Feb.  26,  John  Needham.  1. 
Hannah,  b.  1685,  Sept.  10;  m.  Andrew  Eichardson,  4.  Henry.  5,  b.  1705, 
Nov.  4.  Hannah,  b.  1708,  May  2;  d.  1730,  May  21.  Sarah,  b.  1710, 
June  24. 
4.  Henry,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1688-9,  Jan.  16;  m.  1716,  July  10, 
Elizabeth  Hayward.  She  d.  1735,  May  20,  and  he  m.  1735,  Nov.  13,  Dinah 
Brown,  of  Concord.  She  d.  1764,  Jan.  27,  aged  57;  he  d.  1772,  Aug.  19. 
Ch.  Henry,  6,  b.  1717.  April  24.  Elizabeth  and  Lxjdia,  b.  1719,  June  8;  d. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1721,  April  17;  m.  Ross  Wynian,  (se^^  Ross,  2).  Simeon,  7, 
b.  1724,  June  7.  Lydia.  b.  1726,  June  8;  ni.  1750,  Sept.  4,  Eliseus  Barron, 
of  Dracut.      Mary,\.  1728,  Sept.  12.     Hannah,  b.  1738-9.  Feb.  25. 
5.  Henry,  son  of  Henry,  3,  b.  1705,  Nov.  4;  m.  1731,  Oct.  21.  Mary 
Geary,  of  Stouehani.  He  removed  to  Groton  after  1737.  Ch.  Jonathan, 
b.  1732-3.  M<dhi,  b.  1734,  Dec.  26.  Henry,  8,  b.  1737,  July  1.  John. 
b.  1739,  Oct.  2.     Thomas,  b.  1741.  Oct.  20. 
6.  Henry,  son  of  Henry.  4,  b.  1717.  April  24;  m.  1743.  Nov.  29.  Mary 
Abbott,  dau.  of  Dea.  Joshua,  1.  She  d.  1800.  Ch.  John.  b.  1744.  Nov.  9; 
d.  1750.  April  20.  Elizabeth,  b.  1746.  Oct.  3.  Henry,  b.  1748,  Oct.  7.  Mary, 
b.  1750,  Aug.  24;  ni.  1771,  May  15,  Samuel  Hazeltine,  of  Tewksbury. 
Alice,  b.  1756,  Sept.  8. 
7.  Simeon,  son  of  Henry.  4,  b.  1724,  June  7;  m.  1754,  Dec.  10,  Mary 
Parker,  dau.  of  Benjamin,  8.  C'h.  Mary,  b.  1761,  Nov.  24;  m.  1781,  Oct.  4, 
Joseph  Spalding.  Prob.  Simeon,  whose  son  or  gr.-son  Simeon  m.  about 
1820.  Lucretia  Snow,  and  had  11  ch.  in  Lowell. 
8.  Henry,  son  of  Henry,  5,  b.  1737,  July  1;  m.  1774,  Feb.  24, 
Elizabeth  Stearns,  dau.  of  Sanuiel,  10.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1775,  June  11; 
d.  1777.  Nov.  28.  John.  b.  1778.  Feb.  1 ;  m.  1799,  April  25,  Mary  Safford, 
of  Ipswich.  Henry,  b.  1781,  Dec.  11.  Aaron,  b.  1782,  Aug.  31.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1784.  June  23. 
9.  Hannah  m.  1827.  Jan.  -25.  Samuel  Carrell. 
JOHNSON.     1.     Josiah,   prob.   son  of    Josiah.   of  Woburn,   and  the 
same  whose  will  is  dated  Woburn.  1783  ;  m.  Elizabeth    .     Ch.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1733,  Feb.  19.  Sarah,  b.  1734,  Nov.  10;  m.  Samuel  S.  Haywood.  2. 
Josiah,  b.  1736,  Sept.  13.  Ezra.  b.  1738,  April  26.  Susanna,  b.  1741, 
July  16;  m.  William  Shed,  17.  David,  b.  1743.  Aug.  7.  William,  b.  1745, 
Oct.  12 ;  
d.  1748,  Sept.  25.  William,  b.  1749,  Jan.  4 ;  m.  1767.  March  10, 
Abigail  Eichardson,  dau.  of  Jonathan,  12.  Hannah,  b.  1751,  Sept.  13. 
Bhoda,  b.  1754,  Sept.  18. 
2.  Seth  m.  Mary    .     Ch.  Jess,  b.  1756.  March  16. 
3.  Seth  m.  Lydia.  Ch.  Joseph,  b.  1814.  Aug.  21.  Samuel,  b.  1816, 
April  15 ;  
d.  June  4.  Abigail  Brooks,  b.  1817,  Aug.  22 ;  ra.  1838,  July  8, 
George  A.  Fletcher,  of  Michigan;  d.  1840.  Francis  Henry,  b.  1819,  Aug. 31. 
Lydia  Maria,  b.  1821,  Nov.  1;  m.  1843,  June  22,  William  H.  Eand,  of 
Medford.     Stephen,  b.  1826.  Feb.  17 ;  d.  May  15. 
4.  Solon  L.  m.  1834,  Jan.  5,  Louisa  Eowell. 
JONES.  1.  Joseph  m.  1774.  March  3,  Sarah  French,  dau.  of 
Samuel,  15.  Ch.  Joseph,  b.  1774,  Dec.  16.  Samuel,  b.  1776,  Sept.  6.  Sarah, 
b.  1778,  July  15.     Lucy,  b.  1781,  Jan.  6.     Isaac,  b.  1783,  Jan.  7 ;  
d.  Aug.  27. 
 - 463 - 
80  JONES  —  KEMP.     . 
PoJh/,  b.  1784,  June  8.  Cyrus,  (or  Silas,  "Record  of  Baiitisms,"  prob. 
correct,)  b.  1788,  July  22.     Nancy,  b.  1790,  Nov.  30. 
dau. 2.of   Anthony,  b.'  in  Sudbury,  1811,  March  3;  m.  Nancj^  Richardson, 
Jolui,  29.  She  d.  1838,  Aug.  5,  and  he  m.  Judith  Stearns,  dau.  of 
Natlianiel.  19.  He  lives  at  the  corner.  Ch.  John  Anthony,  h.  1837.  May  12; 
m.  Clarissa  Stearns,  dau.  of  Charles.  22,  and  lives  in  Bolton.  Albert 
Haini-s,  3,  b.  1841,  Oct.  27.  Nellie  3Iaria.  b.  1851,  Nov.  15;  m.  1872, 
Sept.-  26,  Frederic  Cyrus  Beniis,  of  Cleveland,  Ohio. 
3.  Albert  Haines,  son  of  Anthony,  1,  b.  1841,  Oct.  27;  m.  Elizabeth 
Rice  Kimball,  of  Hillsboro,  N.  H. ;  
d.  1873,  Oct.  13.  Ch.  Alberto  Howard, 
b.  1868,  Oct.  13. 
JUDKINS.  1.  Benjamin  L.,  b.  in  Dembury.  N.  H.,  1797,  Sept.  17; 
m.  1827,  Jan.  1,  Elizabeth  Hill,  dau.  of  Peter.  26.  He  lived  on  the  original 
"Ralph  Hill"  place;  d.  1875.  Aug.  28.  Ch.  Henry  Benjanin,  2,  b.  1827, 
Nov.  6.  Edward  Hill,  b.  1833,  Dec.  20.  He  is  in  business  in  Boston,  and 
has  changed  his  name,  by  authority  in  1872.  to  Edward  Judkins  Hill. 
2.  Henry  Benjamin,  son  of  preceeding,  b.  1827,  Nov.  6;  student, 
D.  C.  in  Class  of  1845;  lives  on  the  Carlisle  road,  beyond  Winning's  pond; 
ni.  1853.  Nov.  19,  Harriet  Fowler,  of  Southwick.  Ch.  Edward  Foster, 
b.  1854,  July  30;  m.  1879,  Dec.  8.  Fanny  Mary  Talbot,  of  Texas,  niece 
of  Hon.  Thomas  Talbot.  She  was  Assistant  Principal  of  the  Howe  school, 
1877-9.   He  is  in  business  in  Missouri.    Putnam  Rensselaer,  b.  1856,  Feb.  28. 
KEMP.  1.  Samuel,  was  a  kinsman  of  Edward,  of  Chelmsford.  He 
received  in  1658,  a  grant  of  a  "live  acre  lot,  or  halfe  a  single  share.'' 
'"seventy  acres  of  land,  be  it  more  or  lesse,  lying  on  loes  plaine,  loese 
meadow  being  contained  within  it,  and  is  part  of  the  number,  but  it  is 
reckoned  to  him  as  three  acres  of  meadow  land  ;  this  land  is  bounded  by 
y«  comons,  west;  by  y*  churches  farm,  on  y^  south;  and  y^  highway 
which  parts  Jacob  JBrowne,  and  him,  noi'th."  The  road  to  the  Dea. 
Edmand's  place,  known,  anciently,  as  Marshall's  lane,  was  near,  if  not  the 
same,  with  this  north  bound  of  Kemp's  lot.  He  remained  here  only  until 
1668,  and  then  sold  to  Thomas  Ross,  removing  to  Groton.  He  m.  1662, 
May  23,  Sarah  Foster.  Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1662-3,  Feb.  23,  who  lived  in 
Groton,  and  his  children  after  him.  Abigail,  b.  1664-5,  March  27,  and  b.  in 
Groton.  Jonathan,  2,  b.  1668,  April  6.  Mehittabel,  b.  1673,  Jan.  4. 
Bethiah,  b.  1683,  July  9. 
2.  Jonathan,  prob.   son  of  Samuel,   1,  m.   Mary    .     The  name 
disappears  in  1753,  from  the  tax-list,  as  does  his  son  Jonathan.  Ch.  b.  in 
Groton  :  Joseph,  3,  b.  1699.  Sept.  10.  Mary,  b.  1702,  May  27.  Prob.  in 
some  other  town:  John,  4,  and  Josiah,  5,  and  in  Billerica:  Mary,  b.  1719, 
Dec.  11.     Sarah,  b.  1721,  July  8;  ni.  Nathaniel  Ranger.    Jonathan. 
3.  Joseph,  son  of  Jonathan.  2,  b.  1699.  Sept.  10;  m.  Elizabeth    . 
His  name  disappears  from  tax-list,  1755.  Ch.  Jason,  6,  b.  1725,  Nov.  11. 
Josej)h,  b.  1727.  June  20.  Benjamin,  b.  1731.  June  20.  Sampson,  b.  1733, 
Aug.  29.  Jacob,  b.  1735,  Aug.  12.  David,  b.  1739,  June  26.  Oliver, 
b.  1744,  Sept.  9. 
4.  John,  prob.  son  of  Jonathan,  2,  m.  1735,  Dec.  5,  Susanna  Gillson. 
Ch.  Bachd,  b.  1736-7.  March  2;  d.  1739,  Nov.  19.  John,  b.  1743,  May  23. 
Ebenezer,  b.  1744-5.  Feb.     Thankful,  b.  1748,  Jan.  6. 
5.  Josiah,  prob.  son  of  Jonathan,  2,  m.  1731,  June  29,  Rachel  Davis. 
His  name  disappears.  1754.  tJh.  Ezekiel,  b.  1741,  March  28.  Olive, 
b.  1742-3.  Feb.  18. 
6.  Jason,  son  of  Joseph,  3,  b.  1725,  Nov.  11 ;  
m.  Hannah    .     She 
was,  perhaps,  dau.  of  Robert  Meers.  His  name  is  not  on  the  tax-list  after 
1780.  Ch  Hannah,  b.  1748,  April  12;  m.  Joseph  Parry.  William,  7, 
b.  1750,  Jan.  10.  L^icy,  b.  1752,  Feb.  22;  m.  Thomas  Brown,  12. 
3  haddeus,  b.  1757.  Jan.  22.  Levi.h.  1760.  June  20.  Elijah,  b.  1762,  Feb.  4. 
Keziah,  b.  1764,  March  17.     Bhoda,  b.  1767,  Oct.  3. 
7.  William,  son  of  Jason,  G,  b.  1750,  Jan.  10;  m.  1769,  Oct.  10, 
Abigail  Clarke.  His  name  disappears  before  1780.  Ch.  James,  b.  1771, 
Feb.  11.  William,  b.  1773,  April  27;  m.  1800,  Dec.  4,  Sally  Wilson. 
Abigail,  b.  1775,  June  5. 
 - 464 - 
RKSIDKNCK    CK    MUS.     IJKN.iA.MIN     L.    .)L1)KINS. 
 - 465 - 
 - 466 - 
KENDALL  —  KIDDER.  81 
KENDALL.  1.  Jacob,  was  son  of  Francis,  of  Woburn,  M^here  the 
births  of  nineteen  children  are  recorded,  and  may  be  found  in  the  historj- 
of  Woburn.  But  he  seems  to  have  lived  in  Billerica  long  enough  to  secure 
the  record  here  of  a  twentieth  child.  '^  
Jacob,  the  son  of  Jacob  and  Alice 
Kendall,  was  b.  July  21.  1717." 
2.  Reuben  was  from  Woburn;  b.  1724.  May  20;  son  of  Ephraim  and 
Judith.  His  father  Avas  prob.  a  son  of  Thomas,  though  his  birth  is  not 
recorded.  He  may  have  been  b.  about  1690,  and  d.  1728,  May  15.  Reuben 
m.  1749,  April  20,  Judith  Brown,  dau.  of  Joseph.  4,  and  made  his  home 
just  west  of  Shawshin  river,  on  the  Wilmington  road,  now  the  Costello 
place.  His  sister  Judith  m.  Josiah  Eichardson,  9;  and  Elizabeth,  not  a 
sister,  m.  1759,  June  19,  Amaziah  Swallow.  Ch.  Judith,  b.  1750,  Aug.  29; 
m.  Thomas  Eichardson,  21.  Reubens  b.  17.54,  April  12.  Joseph,  3,  b.  1757, 
Dec.  16.     Mary,  b.  1761,  Sept.  15.     Sarah,  b.  1766,  Sept.  22. 
3.  Joseph,  son  of  Reuben,  2,  b.  1757,  Dec.  16 ;  m.  1788,  Nov.  2, 
Mary  Crosby,  dau.  of  Ephraim.  10.  He  d.  1823,  March  9,  and  she  d.  1859, 
Nov.  18.  Ch.  Josei^h  and  Reuhpii.  b.  1789.  Feb.  23.  Reuben  d.  March  5, 
and  Joseph  d.  1835,  July  12.  Mary.  b.  1791,  Oct.  25;  m.  George  Carter. 
Beuben,  b.  1793,  Nov.  19;  d.  1796,  May  14.  Cyrus,  b.  1795.  Nov.  14; 
m.  1819.  Sept.  29,  Lucy  Gray,  dau.  of  John,  and  had  Cyrus  b.  1821.  Oct.  25, 
and  Jerome,  b.  1824,  April;  both  now  in  California.  His  wife  d.  1826, 
Sept.  10,  aged  26.  and  he  d.  1827,  Aug.  18.  Sarah,  b.  1797,  Sept.  14; 
m.  1814.  May  10,  Elbridge  Kidder,  of  Tewksbury.  She  d.  1830,  June  6. 
Judith,  b.  1799,  April  29;  d.  1878,  June  11.  Reuben,  b.  1801,  Sept.  12; 
d.  1846,  March  29,  Hannah,  b.  1803,  Nov.  5;  d.  1878,  Oct.  18.  Harriet. 
b.  1808,  Nov.  17. 
4.  William  ra.  1786,  Feb.  26,  Hannah  Needliain,  dau.  of  Benjamin,  3. 
5.  Hezekiall  m.  1792,  Nov.  1.  Abigail  Marshall,  dau.  of  Isaac,  7. 
6.  Jason  m.  1803,  March  3,  Sally  Richardson,  dau.  of  Thomas,  21 ; 
lived  in  Burlington. 
KEYES.  The  name  has  been  occasionally  on  the  tax-lists,  but  no 
family  is  recorded.  Solomon  appears  1749-50.  Ephraim,  1760-4,  and  he 
m.  1751,  July  11,  Rebecca  Townsend.  Jonas  m.  1756,  Ajiril  21.  Elizabeth 
Townsend.  These  lattei"  were  prob.  the  sons  of  Ezekiel,  of  Chelmsford, 
and  lived  in  Plymouth  and  Eunniey.  N.  H.  Abel  is  on  tax-list,  1766. 
Lydia  m.  Thomas  Hall.  3,  and  Eunice  m.  Daniel  Fletcher,  of  Nottingham, 
KIDDER.  1.  James,  son  of  James,  was  b.  1626,  in  East  Grinstead, 
Sussex,  England.  His  ancestry  has  been  traced  in  England,  through  six 
generations  :  James,  liis  father  ;  
John  ;  
John  ;  
Richard  ;  Kichard  ;  Richard. 
He  m.  Anna  Moore,  dau.  of  Elder  Francis,  of  Cambridge,  and  his  children 
befoi-e  1660,  were  b.  there.  He  received  in  1656,  a  grant  of  a  ten  acre  lot 
in  Billerica,  but  it  was  not  located  until  1658,  and  he  did  not  occupy  it  till 
1659.  His  house-lot  is  described:  ■•  thirty  acres  of  land,  more  or  less, 
lying  upon  the  township,  aboute  y"  centre  "of  it,  his  house-lot  being  part  of 
it.  It  is  bounded  by  John  Rogers,  sen.,  on  ye  south;  by  land  yet  lying  in 
comon,  on  the  east  ;  and  by  the  West  street  or  highway  which  leads  from 
long  street  to  y«  great  river  on  y«  north;  and  by  the  great  river  on  the 
M^est."  Besides  various  meadow  lots,  he  also  had  26  acres  on  the  plain 
beyond  loes'  meadow,  and  sixty  acres  south-east  of  Fox  hill  ;  
31  acres  at 
the  head  of  heath  brook,  (now  in  TewksburJ^)  and  other  smaller  lots.  His 
house  stood  on  the  well-known  lot  where  Gardner  Parker  lives.  The 
place  has  remained  in  the  family,  John  Parker  having  married,  1751, 
Abigail  Kidder,  dau.  of  Enoch. 
James  Kidder  was  Ensign  in  Capt.  Danforth's  military  company,  and 
his  house  was  a  garrison  in  1675.  He,  himself,  was  placed  in  charge  of  the 
Indians  at  Wamesit,  a  position  which  indicates,  in  that  critical  period,  the 
confidence  reposed  in  his  skill  and  courage.  The  conjecture  is  probable, 
that  the  hardships  and  exposure  incident  to  this  war,  occasioned  his  death 
which  took  place.  1676,  April  16.  His  widow  m.  1684-5,  March  17,  William 
Underwood,  of  Chelmsford.     Ch.   Hannah,  b.  1650-1.  March  1 ;  m.  1672, 
 - 467 - 
32  '      KIDDER. 
Oct.  30,  Nathaniel  Kettle,  of  Charlestown.  Dorothy,  b.  1652;  in.  Jonathan 
Hyde.  James,  2,  b.  1658—1.  .Tan.  .S.  John  lived  in  Chelmsford;  m.  Lydia 
Paiiier,  1G84.  Dec.  3.  and  had  12  eh.  llis  son  Thomas  was  the  father  of 
Aaron.  Joseph  and  Reuben,  who  w(n-e  among  the  tirst  and  most  active 
settlers  of  New  Ipswich,  N.  H.  Mr.  Frederick  Kidder,  historian,  of  New 
Ipswich,  is  a  descendent,  and  Benjamin  Kidder,  of  Lovewell's  Expedition, 
was  his  son.      Thomas,  b.  1657.  March  1 ;  m.  Elizabeth    .  freeman  in 
Watertown.  1690.  Nathaniel,  bap.  1658-9,  Feb.  27,  at  Caml)ridg(';  d., 
unmarried,  at  Newton,  1690-1.  Jan.  7.  Ephraim,  3,  b.  1660.  Aug.  31. 
Stephen,  b.  1662.  Nov.  26;  m.  Mary  Johnson,  who  d.  of  small-pox,  1722, 
Sept.  17.  He  lived  in  Charlestown;  a  blacksmith;  had  13  ch.  ;  
d.  1748, 
July  5.  J5J«oc/t.  4,  b.  1664,  Sept.  16.  Samuel,  b.  166.5-6,  Jan.  7;  m.  1689, 
Oct.  23,  Sarah  Griggs,  of  Cambridge,  and  lived  there;  had  10  ch.,  and 
d.  1724,  July  4.  Sarah,  b.  1667,  June  1 ;  m.  George  Brown,  3.  Joseph, 
b.  1670,  Nov.  20;  d.  1683. 
2.  James,  son  of  James,  1,  b.  1653-4,  Jan.  3;  m.  1678,  Sept.  23, 
Elizabeth  Brown,  dau.  of  the  Avife  of  John  Rogers,  1.  She  d.  1691, 
Aug.  10;  he  d.  1732,  Dec.  15.  He  lived  on  the  Andover  road,  south-east  of 
Fox  hill.  Ch.  James,  b.  1679,  June  27;  m.  1703,  Nov.  8,  Mary  Abbot, 
prob.  dau.  of  Thomas,  of  Andover.  They  settled  in  Mansfield,  Conn.  ; 
pioneers  in  that  town.  He  d.  1729,  May  18;  had  13  ch.,  of  whom  James 
was  eldest  and  executor.  John,  b.  1680-1,  Jan.  27;  m.  1706.  June  18,  Mary 
Phillips.  Charlestown  ;  a  mariner,  and  d.  at  sea,  1707,  March  27.  Joseph, 
b.  1683,  April  21;  d.  July  30.  Elizabeth,  b.  1686,  March  30;  d.  1703, 
April  14.  Hannah,  b.  1689,  April  27;  m.  Benjamin  Hey  wood,  of 
Chelmsford.     Samuel,  b.  1691,  May  22;  d.  1692. 
3.  Epliraiin,  son  of  James,  1,  b.  1660,  Aug.  31;  m.  1685,  Aug.  4, 
Rachel  Crosby,  dau.  of  Simon,  1.  His  wife  d.  1721,  Sept.  14.  He  d.  1724, 
Sept.  25.  Ch."  Ephraim,  5,  b.  1687.  xVpril  26.  Joseph,  '"b.  1683,  April  21," 
(Wyman;)  prob.  an  error  for  1689  ;  m.  1712,  Sept.  10,  Dorothy  Dowse,  of 
Charlestown,  and  was  "^gone  to  sea,"  when  his  father  d.  He  had  a  dau. 
Rachel,  b.  in  B.,  1721-2,  March  10;  other  ch.  in  Charlestown.  Rachel, 
b.  1691,  April  1;  m.  1714,  June  24.  Thomas  Taylor,  Charlestown,  and 
d.  1715,  June  24.  Alice,  b.  1692-3,  Feb.  8;  m.  Benjamin  Tom])son,  2. 
Hannah  and  Dorothy,  b.  in  Medford.  1696,  Sept.  2.  Hannah  m.  Jonathan 
Ballard.  Dorothy  m.  Thomas  Baldwin.  5.  Thomas,  6,  b.  1700,  Aug.  3. 
Benjamin,  h.  1702.  Aug.  3;  m.  1731,  Nov.  9,  Hannah  Richardson,  dau.  of 
Andrew,  4,  and  lived"  in  Bedford.  ''Benjamin  Kidder,  of  Bedford,"  had 
Mary  bap.  1757.  Aug.  29.  Richard,  b.  1705,  May  10;  d.  1773.  in  Dudley, 
Mass.  ;  the  ancestor  of  a  lai-ge  famil}^  His  gr.-son,  Nathaniel,  settled 
in  Wardsboro,  Vt..  about  1790,  and  had  16  ch.  Among  his  descendants 
are  Rev.  Corbin  Kidder  and  Rev.  Sanuiel  T.  Kidder. 
4.  Enoch,  son  of  James,  1,  b.  1664,  Sept.  16;  m.  Mary  Haywood. 
She  d.  1742-3.  March  21;  he  m.  1743,  June  4,  Hannah  Danforth,  widoAV  of 
Samuel,  3.  She  d.  1752,  Oct.  3,  and  he  d.  Dec.  1.  He  lived  on  the 
-homestead.  Ch.  Mary,  b.  1693,  Sept.  14;  d.  Sept.  28.  Abigail,  b.  1694, 
Dec.  16;  m.  Simon  Crosby,  6.  Enoch,  7,  b.  1697,  Dec.  30.  William, 
b.  1700,  Dec.  5;  d.  1702,  Oct.  10.  Frsncis,  b.  1703,  Oct.  1;  m.  1730-1. 
Feb.  24,  Elizabeth  Hill,  dau.  of  Jonathan,  4;  lived  in  Oxford.  Mary, 
b.  1707.  IVlarch  26;  prob.  m.  Nathaniel  Patten,  (see  4).  William,  8, 
b.  1709-10.  March  13. 
5.  Ephraim,  son  of  Ephraim,  3,  b.  1687,  April  26 ;  m.  1707,  Oct.  15, 
Abigail  Frost,  dau.  of  James,  2.  He  lived  in  Tewksbury.  His  Avife 
d.  1772,  Jan.  11.  and  he  d.  1776,  Sept.  4.  Ch.  Ephraim,  9,  b.  1710.  Feb.  15. 
Joseph,   b.   1714.    July  4;    lived,    as    did    his    brothers,    in    Tewksbury; 
m.  Abigail    ;  
had    5    eh.    who    d.    young,    and    Nehemiah;   Lemuel; 
Abigail  knd  Hephsibah.  Josiah,  b.  1717,  Jan.  18 ;  m.  Hannah  Patten,  dau. 
of  Kendall,  6,  and  2d,  Sarah  Kittredge,  widow  of  Daniel,  (.see  12;)  had 
ch.  Josiah;  Hannah;  Abigail;  Dorcas;  Jonathan;  Daniel  and  Sarah. 
Sarah,  b.  1718-9,  Jan.  16.     Jeremiah,  b.  1721,  July  5;  m.  Sarah    ,  and 
 - 468 - 
KIDDER.  83 
had  eh.  Sarah;  Jeremiah;  Alice;  Eachel;  Lucia;  Dolly;  Ephraim; 
Experience;  Jacob;  John  and  Hannah.     Abigail,  b.  1724,  May  28. 
6.  Thomas,  son  of  Ephraim,  3,  b.  1700.  Aug.  3;  m.  1726,  May  10, 
Eachel  Dantorth,  dau.  ot  Samuel,  3.  She  d.  17C4,  Sept.  15;  he  m.  1767, 
July  7,  widow  Susanna  Phelps,  of  Andover,  {see  Kittredge,  9).  He  d.  1791, 
Jan.  8,  in  Tewksbury.  Ch.  Jonathan,  10,  b.  1728.  Marcli  26.  Francis, 
b.  1730.  July  15;  d.  1748,  Sept.  15.  PMchel,  b.  1732,  May  22 ;  m.  1751, 
July  8.  JohnHovey,  of  Maiden.  AlHce,  b.  1734,  May  18.  Abigail,  b.  1735-6, 
Jan.  10.  Hannah  and  Dorothy,  b.  1738,  Oct.  19.  Hannah  m,  1761,  .Jan.  1, 
William  Bowers,  of  t'hehnsford. 
7.  Enoch,  son  of  Enoch.  4,  b.  1607.  Dec.  30:  m.  1722.  July  19,  Sarah 
Hunt,  dau.  of  Samuel.  2.  She  d.  1749-50,  Jan.  26;  he  m.  1751,  Aug.  8, 
Sarah  Bacon,  widow  of  Josiah.  lie  d.  1781,  Jan.  5.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1722-3, 
March  3;  d.  1729,  Oct.  19.  ,Sanmel,  11,  b.  1724,  Oct.  19.  John,  b.  1726, 
Sept.  18;  d.  1748,  Sept.  17.  Enoch,  b.  1728,  Sept.  8;d.  1730,  Sept.  13. 
Abigail,  b.  1730,  July  3;  m.  John  Parker.  14.  Solomon,  12,  b.  1732, 
Aug.  3.  Benjamin,  b.  1734,  Oct.  13;  m.  1761,  Feb.  12,  Euth  Heywood, 
Lunenburg.  Joseph,  h.  1737.  March  25;  d.  1738.  Aug.  14.  Sarah,  b.  1739, 
July  9;  m.  1761,  May  14,  Elias  Haskell,  of  Harvard.  Joseph,  b.  1741, 
Nov.  18;  grad.  Y.  C,  1764;  ordained,  1767.  March  18,  pastor  of  Dunstable, 
N.  H..  now  Nashua,  and  held  the  office  until  his  death,  1818,  Sept.  6, 
although  his  civil  relation  with  the  town  was  dissolved  in  1796.  Devout, 
prudent,  faithful,  hospitable,  as  the  old  time  pastor  needed  to  be,  his 
long  ministry  was  most  useful,  and  his  name  is  remembered  with  honor. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1745,  July  20;  m.  1769,  Sept.  14.  Eev.  Jonathan  Livermore, 
of  Wiltou,  N.  H.  He  grad.  H.  C.  1760;  was  ordained,  1763,  Dec.  14.  the 
same  day  that  the  church  Avas  organized.     He  was  dismissed,  1778,  Feb., 
,  
I)ut  lived  in  the  town  ;  
d.  1809,  July  20.     Bebecca,  b.  1753,  Aug.  9 ;  m.  1781, 
Sept.  4.  Wlnslow  Phelps,  of  Lancaster. 
8.  William,  son  of  Enoch,  4,  b.  1709-10.  March  13 ;  m.  1736.  Dec.  16, 
Sarah  Ballard,  of  Andover.  He  sold.  1759,  March  9.  two-thirds  of  the 
water  power  and  mill  privilege  at  North  Billerica,  to  John  Carleton. 
He  d.  1789,  Dec.  15.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1737,  Nov.  6;  d.  1759,  May  3. 
Bebecca,  b.  1739,  July  8;  m.  1760.  Jan.3,Ebenezer  French,  22.  William,  13, 
b.  1741-2,  Jan.  14.  Isaac,  b.  1744,  June  30;  d.  Oct.  9.  Isaac,  b.  1746, 
May  17;  d.  1749.  Oct.  15.  Enoch,  b.  1749,  Jan.  8;  d.  1751,  June  2.  Isaac,  14, 
b.  1752.  March  28.     Hezekiah,  b.  1757,  Aug.  17;  d.  Aug.  27. 
9.  Ephraim,  son  of  Ephrnim,  5,  b.  1710,  Feb.  15;  m.  1735,  Dec.  30, 
Elizabeth  French,  dau.  of  VViUiam,  6.  She  d.  1755,  Nov.  30.  He  d.  at 
Lake  George.  1756,  Aug.  30.  He  lived  in  Tewksbury  before  1742. 
Ch.  Ephraim.  15,  b.  1736,  July  9.  Elizabeth,  b.  1737-8,  Jan.  13.  Hannah, 
b.  1740-1.  Feb.  3;  m.  1764,  Jime  7.  Sauuiel  Barnard,  of  Boston.  Mehitabel, 
b.  1745.  Oct.  18;  d.  Abigail,  b.  1747-8,  .Jan.  13;  m.  Jude  Eichardson,  of 
Wilmington.  Mehitabel,  b.  1749,  Feb.  22;  m.  1769,  June  6.  Thomas 
Manning,  of  Andovei".  Submit,  b.  and  d.  1752.  June  29.  Sarah,  b.  1753, 
Oct.  25;  m.  1773,  April  29,  John  White,  of  Concord.  Tabitha,  b.  1755, 
Sept.  5. 
10.  Jonathan,  son  of  Thomas,  6,  b.  1728,  March  26;  grad.  H.  C, 
1751.  He  taught  the  school  in  Billerica,  from  Sept.,  1753,  to  1784,  with  the 
exception  of  1763-4.  He  m.  Mary  Lambert,  of  Eeading;  d.  1805, 
March  18.  Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1754,  March  27.  Mary,  b.  1756,  Aug.  23; 
m.  1778,  March  12.  Joseph  Butler,  of  Concord,  and  had  Mary,  b.  1779, 
March  26,  who  m.  James  Eussell,  of  Carlisle,  father  of  James  S.  Eussell. 
of  Lowell.  Mr.  Butler  d.  in  the  army.  Elizabeth,  b.  1758,  May  13; 
m.  1778,  Nov.  19,  Benjamin  Herrick,  of  Eeading  and  Fitchburg. 
Jonathan,    16,   b.    1760,   April   30.      Bachel,   b.    1762,   July   22.      Francis, 
b.  1765,  April  19;    sometime  a  seaman.      Ann,  b.  1767,  April  24;  m.    
Sawyer,  of  Eeading.  Sarah,  b.  1769,  Feb.  20;  m.  1796,  Feb.  25,  Eli  Flint, 
of  Eeading.  Caroline,  b.  1770.  Sept.  12;  d.  3Iargaret,  b.  1772.  May  25. 
William  Lambert,  b.  1775,  April  13;  m.  1798,  Nov.  19,  Nabby  Jenkins,  of 
Andover.     Caroline,  b.  1779,  Oct.  12;  d.  1814,  July  2. 
 - 469 - 
84  KIDDER— KIMBALL. 
11.  Samuel,  son  of  Enoch,  7,  b.  1724,  Oct.  19;  m.  1749.  April  13, 
Abigail  Hill,  dau.  of  Samuel.  8.  He  d.  1794,  Feb.  18.  She  d.  1803,  Oct.  8. 
Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1749-50,  March  12;  d.  1780,  Dec.  17.  Sarah,  b.  1752, 
Feb.  7.  Marij.  b.  1754,  May  11  ;  
d.  1772.  June  1.  Enoch,  b.  1756,  Julj'^  10. 
Abigail,  b.  1759,  June  5;  m.  1781,  Aug.  21.  Timothy  Whiting,  (see  11). 
John.  17,  b.  1762,  June  22.  Eachel.  h.  1764,  Oct.  10;  d.  1766.  Oct.  9. 
AUice,  b.  1767.  April  14;  m.  1790.  Aug.  3,  Dr.  Robert  Smith,  Durham,  N.  H. 
Francis,  b.  1769.  Au"-.  19;  d.  1796,  Feb.  28. 
12.  Solomon,  "son  of  Enoch,  7,  b.  1732,  Aug.  3;  m.  1758,  Nov.  23, 
Dorothy  Thompson,  dau.  of  Benjamin,  2.  She  d.  1759,  Oct.  4,  and  he  m. 
Lydia  White,  of  Haverhill.  He  d.  1776,  Nov.  20,  at  White  Plains,  N.  Y. 
She  d.  1778,  Mav  26.  Ch.  Lydia,  h.  1765,  March  16.  Samuel  Phillips, 
b.  1768,  Nov.  1.  "   DorotMj,  b.  1770,  Aug.  11.  Elizabeth,  b.  1772,  Aug.  23; 
d.  1775,  Dec.  21. 
13.  William,  son  of  William,  8,  b.  1741-2,  Jan.  14;  m.  1771,  Dec.  3, 
Molly  French,  dau.  of  John,  11.  He  d.  1778,  Nov.  1.  Ch.  Molly,  b.  1773, 
March  1 ;  prob.  m.  1809,  April  23,  Philip  Bowers,  of  Chelmsford.  William 
b.  1774,  Dec.  19.     Sarah,  b.  1778,  Feb.  23. 
14.  Isaac,  son  of  William.  8,  b.  1752,  March  28;  m.  1775.  June  1, 
Sarah  Stickney,  dau.  of  Abraham,  1.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1776,  June  27.  Isaac, 
b.  1778,  March  27;  d.  March  29.  Elizabeth,  b.  1779,  March  9.  Isaac, 
b.  1781,  May  19.  Enoch,  b.  1783,  June  18.  Nancy,  bap.  1785,  Sept.  25. 
Moses,  b.  1789.  Jan.  15 ;  a  physician  in  Lowell.  Moses  W.  Kidder,  of 
Boston,  is  his  only  surviving  child.     He  d.  1855,  May  5. 
15.  Epliraiiii,  son  of  Ephraim,  9,  b.  1736,  July  9;  m.  Lucv  Pollard, 
dau.  of  John,  3.  She  d.  1792,  Oct.  3;  he  m.  1793.  April  30,  Dorcas  Hill, 
widow  of  Paul.  22.  Ch.  Lucy,  h.  1760,  Sept.  6;  m.  1781,  April  8,  Stephen 
Barrett,  of  Carlisle.  Ehoda  and  Silence,  (still-born.)  b.  1764.  Jan.  12. 
Ehoda  d.  1765,  April  15.  Ephraim.  19,  b.  1766,  April  10.  Joshua,  b.  1768, 
Nov.  19;  m.  1808,  March  10,  Mary  Wilson,  dau.  of  Leonard,  7,  and 
d.  1808,  Oct.  22. 
16.  Jonathan,  son  of  Jonathan.  10,  b.  1760,  April  30 ;  m.  Katharine 
Paine.     Ch.  Charles,  b.  1784,  Sept.  6. 
17.  John,  son  of  Samuel,  11,  b.  1762,  June  22;  m.  1796,  July  17, 
Mary  Osgood.  Ch.  John.  b.  1797,  May  3.  Samuel,  b.  1799.  Jan.  13.  ^Mary 
Elizabeth  Dana,  b.  1800,  Dec.  20.  James  Drtimmond,  b.  1802,  Dec.  8. 
Lucretia.  b.  1804,  Nov.  23. 
18.  Francis,  son  of  Francis,  of  Littleton,  b.  1785,  Feb.  11 ;  m.  1810, 
Jan.  18,  Nancy  Hartwell.  of  Littleton  ;  removed  to  Andover,  and  later,  to 
Bristol.  N.  H.';  d.  1852,  Nov.  7;  his  widow  d.  in  Cambridge.  1871,  Sept.  15. 
Ch.  Frances  Ann,  b.  181-1,  June  18;  d.  1830,  April.ll.  Martha  Jane,  b.  1813, 
Feb.  1;  m.  1832,  Oct.  10.  Nathaniel  Swift,  of  Andover,  merchant;  d.  1843. 
Nov.  28.  Mary  Elizabeth,  b.  1815,  Feb.  4 ;  m.  1835,  Sept.  2,  Samuel  P.  Cobb  ; 
d.  1836,  Sept.  30.  William,  b.  1817,  March  29;  m.  1842,  June  17,  Anna  G. 
Livingston  and  lives  in  Newburyport.  Francis  Henry,  b.  1819,  July  20; 
d.  1853,  May  6.  Ellen  CaroZtne,  b.  in  Andover,  1823,  March  20;  m.  1844, 
July  30,  Solomon  S.  Sleeper,  of  Boston.  Sarah  Dix,  b.  1825,  July  6; 
m.  1847,  Nov.  14,  S.  S.  Merrill,  and  d.  in  Milwaukee,  1855,  March  26. 
Susan  Haytvard.  b.  1829,  Nov.  3;  m.  1848,  Nov.  7,  Israel  Lombard,  jr., 
of  Boston;  d.  1851,  Oct.  29. 
19.  Ephraim,  son  of  Ephraim,  15,  b.  1766.  April  10;  m.  1796, 
Dec.  25,  Abigail  Abbot,  dau.  of  Oliver,  3.  He  d.  1807,  Dec.  22. 
Ch.  Abigail  Elizabeth,  b.  1798,  Oct.  30. 
KILLAM,  Daniel,  of  Wilmington,  m.  1777,  May  13,  Rebecca  Belknap. 
KIMBALL,  Ichabod  Gibson,  was  son  of  William  ;  
b.  in  Carlisle,  1799, 
April  14;  m.  1821,  Dec.  5,  Joanna  Pitts  Gould,  of  Chelmsford.  He  came 
to  Billerica  about  1830,  and  lived  on  the  north-west  side  of  Andover  street. 
His  wife  d.  1876,  Aug.  17,  aged  78,  and  he  d.  1880,  March  4.  Ch,  Anna 
Maria,  b.  1823,  July  6;  d.  1846,  Oct.  26. 
 - 470 - 
KING  —  KITTREDGE.  85 
KING,  Samuel  Henry,  son  of  Ozias,  was  b.  in  Landaff,  N.  H.,  1831, 
Oct.  27;  m.  1854,  Nov.  1,  Mary  J.  Patten,  dau.  of  Aaron  H.,  17. 
Ch.  Henry  Patten,  b.  1856,  April  20.  Ht-rhert  Alfred,  b.  1858,  July  3.  Anna 
Eliza,  b.  1860,  Jan.  30;  d.  1862,  May  30.  Mary  Ella,  b.  1862,  Nov.  7. 
George  Bliss,  b.  1866.  Nov.  5. 
KINSLEY,  Samuel,  prob.  son  of  Stephen,  of  Braintree.  received  a 
grant  in  August,  1659,  of  a  ten-acre  lot.  His  house-lot  contained  100  acres, 
south  of  Fox  hill.  186  "pole  in  length  and  82  pole  wide  at  y'^  west  end 
and  116  pole  wide  at  y«  east  end ;  
bound  by  William  French,  partly  on  the 
south;  the  coinons  elsewhere  surrounding  y*^  same."  He  m.  Hannah 
Bracket,  dau.  of  Eichard.  of  Braintree.  and  d.  1662,  May  21.  If  he  was 
the  son  of  Stephen,  he  left  a  son  and  two  daughters,  who  are  provided  for 
in  their  grand-father's  will.  1673. 
KITTREDGE.  1.  John,  received  a  five-acre  grant,  1660,  Sept.  25. 
John  Parker  is  called  '"his  master."  His  house-lot  was  "ten  acres  of 
land  *  on  y  south-east  of  bare  hill,  on  y<'  west  side  of  the  country  road, 
and  joyniug  to  the  south  side  of  Robert  Parker's  lot,  w'»  his  son  Benjamin 
lives  upon  ;  also  four  acres  of  meadow  *  all  which  is  *  bounded  with 
Shawshin  road,  east;  y<^  comons,  south  and  west,"  etc.  In  1663,  Julj% 
"granted  more  to  him.  that  instead  of  tenne  poles  of  land,  which  he  should 
have  had  upon  y«  towneship,  (by  willm  pattin's  house-lot.)  to  set  a  shop 
upon,  that  now  he  shall  have  it  added  to  his  house-lot,  "upon  the  south  of 
it."  His  first  grant  within  the  bounds,  later,  of  Tewksbury,  where  his 
descendants  were  located,  was  in  1661,  Dec.  "sixty  and  four  acres,  lying 
on  y«  east  side  of  ail  wife  brooke,  and  on  y^  south  of  y«  highway  as  you  go 
to  globe  hill."  being  bounded  by  y«  highway,  on  y^  north;  by  John 
Durrent.  Avest  ;  
by  globe  hill  and  his  bounds  neer  Shawshin  river,  (which 
are  marked  above  y"  meadow,)  on  y*  east  and  south.  This  liome-lot  of 
Kittredge  was  a  mile  south-east  of  the  village,  near  the  school  house,  and  the 
other  grant,  beyond  Pattenville.  near  the  Shawshin.  He  m.  1664,  Nov.  2, 
Mary  Littlefield,  prob.  the  dau.  of  Francis,  of  Woburn,  b.  1646,  Dec.  14. 
Kalph  Hill  names  her  "gr.-dau."  in  his  will.  He  d.  1676,  Oct.  18.  and  his 
widow  m.  John  French,  2.  Ch.  John,  2,  b.  1665-6,  Jan.  24.  James,  3, 
b.  1667-8.  March  21.  Daniel,  4,  b.  1670,  July  22.  Jonathan,  b.  1674. 
July  16 ;  
d.  1696.  March  23.     Benoni,  b.  1677,  May  2. 
'2.  John,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1665-6,  Jan.  24;  m.  1685,  Aug.  3,  Hannah 
Fiench,  dau.  of  John,  2.  "Doct.  John  Kittredge  dyed,"  1714,  April  27. 
His  widow  d.  1745,  Oct.  9.  Ch.  John,  5,  b.  1685,  Sept.  14.'  James.  6, 
b.  1687,  Aug.  22.  Hannah,  b.  1689,  May  4;  d.  1689-90,  March  21.  Jacob, 
b.  1690-1,  Feb.  15;  d.  1692,  Aug.  18.  Hannah,  b.  1693,  May;  m.  Edmond 
Frost,  4.  Joseph.  7,  b.  1695,  March  31.  Jonathan,  b.  1696-7,  Jan.  10; 
killed  by  the  Indians  in  Lovewell's  ExiDedition,  1725.  William,  8,  b.  1698-9, 
Feb.  11.  Abigail,  b.  1700.  Nov.  15;  m.  Kendall  Patten.  6.  Jane,  b.  1703, 
March  27;  m.  her  cousin  Thomas,  11.  3Iarah,  b.  1704-5,  Feb.  1 ;  
d.  Feb.  3. 
Francis,  9,  b.  1706.  Oct.  27. 
3.  James,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1667-8,  March  21  ;  m.  Sarah  Fowle, 
of  Charlestown,  and  1708.  April  19,  Mary  Abbst,  of  Andover.,  Ch.  Rachel, 
b.  1702,  Oct.  16.     Prob.  James.  10.      Thomas,  11,  b.  1707-8,  Feb.  23. 
4.  Daniel,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1670,  July  22;  m.  Elizabeth    .   Dea. 
Daniel  Kittredge  d.  1741-2,  March  8.  "Cousin  Joseph,  'sole  exec'  "  of  his 
will.       Ch.   Mary,   b.   1695,   Dec    1 ;  m.   Samuel  Peacock.       Daniel,   12, 
b.  1697,  Oct.  12.     Elizabeth,  b.  1699-1700,  Jan.  12 ;  
m.     Manning.    Sarah, 
b.  1703,  March  25;  m.  Kendal  Patten,  6.      Hannah,  b.  1707-8,  March  19; 
m.  Thomas  Patten,  7.     Mehittabel,  b.  1710-1,  March  6;  m.     Hey  wood. 
Abigail,  b.  1714,  May  17;  m.  Joseph  Frost,  13. 
5.  John,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  1685,  Sept.  14;  m.  Mary    .    
Doct.  John 
Kittredge  d.  1756,  Sept.  29.    Ch.  John,  b.  1709.  Aug.  14;  m.  Mary    ,  and 
had  John,  b.  1737,  April  7.  Simeon,  b.  1739,  March  14.  Benjamin 
b.  1740-1,  March  7.  He  was  a  physician  in  Tewksbury  and  Andover, 
where  he  d.   1776,  July  10;    the  father  of    eight  sons,   all    physicians. 
 - 471 - 
86  KITTREDGE. 
(a)  Benjamin,  of  Exoter.  (b)  Henry,  of  Tewksbury.  (^0  Joyin.  of 
Franiing'hani.  (d)  Jacob,  !(},  of  liilleriea  and  Ohio.  (e)  Rufus.  of 
Portsmouth.     {/)    (Jeorg-e.  of  Ki)])ini>'.    N.  II.     (f/)    Theodore,  of  Kittery. 
(/t)  Cliarles.  of  Watejtown.     Sarali,    b.    1744.   Aug.    2G ;    in.      Daniels; 
d.  1770,  March  20.     Isaac,  b.  1710-1,  Fel).  8;  m.  Kebecca    ;  had  5  ch. 
who  d.  1749,  Aug.,  and  Isaac,  Jlebecca  and  Mary.  Dea.  Isaac  d.  1770, 
Aug.  18.  3Iart/.  b.  1712-3.  Feb.  23;  m.  John  French,  9.  Jacob,  b.  1714, 
Oct.  24;  d.  171G-7,  Jan.  17.  Jacob,  b.  171G-7.  Jan.  14;  m.  Hannah  ;  
had 
Jacol),  1).  1740.  June  27;  a  physician;  d.  in  North  Brookfield.  1813.  July  28. 
Hannah.  1).  1742.     Dorcas,  b."  1744.  June  12,  and  Abiah.  b.  1748.  July  21. 
Dr.  Jacob  d.  1748.  March  31.        Joseph,  h.  171!».   April  «J ;  m.  :Mary    ; 
had  Simeon,  1).  1748.  Sept.  1.  Jacob,  b.  17r)0.  March  28.  Jose])h.  1).  1752, 
July  10;  d.  177.5,  Jan.  4.  Mary,  )>.  1754,  April  22.  Sarah,  b.  175(j,  Feb.  17. 
Dorcas,  b.  17(52,  Oct.  26.  Benjamin,  b.  1760,  March  22;  drowned,  1776, 
June  19.  Elijah,  b.  1769,  March  28.  Mr.  Joseph  d.  1784,  Aug.  3;  his 
wife.  1783,  Aug.  28. 
6.  James,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1687,  Aug.  22;  m.  Sarah    .     He  d. 
1754.  Jan.  23.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1720-1,  March  3.  Susanna,  b.  1723,  Sept.  30; 
d.  Oct.  9.     Siisanna,  b.  1725,  Sept.  28.     James,  b.  1727-8,  Feb.  26;  m.  Molly 
  ;  
had  Samuel,  b.  1751.  Oct.  22;  Molly;  Hannah;  James  and  Susanna. 
SatmteLh.nSO,  April  9;  m.  Rebecca,  and  2d.  Abigail  Ober  ;  
had  Sanuiel, 
b.  1756,  March  28,  and  8  other  ch.  Dacid,  1).  1732,  Aug.,  about  16.  Hannah 
b.  1734,  Oct.  20.     Esther,  b.  1730,  Feb.  26.  , 
7.  Joseph,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  1695.  March  31;  m.  1724,  Feb.  19, 
Elizabeth  ^V right,  of  Woburn.  Dea.  Joseph  Kittredge  d.  1774.  April  12. 
Ch.  Jonathan,  h.  1724.  Dec.  14.  Joseph,  b.  1726-7,  Jan.  10;  d.  1735, 
April  10.  Elizabeth,  b.  1728-9.  March  17;  d.  1731.  June  5.  Nathaniel, 
b.  1732.  Aug.  2;  d.  1736,  3Iarch  12.  Asa,  b.  1734,  Oct.  13;  d.  1749,  May  9. 
Jnsej)h.  b.  f737,  Nov.  18.  Nathaniel,  b.  1740,  April  1;  d.  1749.  May  5. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1742.  May  13.     Hannah,  b.  1745,  Oct.  30. 
8.  William,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1698-9,  Feb.  11;  m.  1731,  Oct.  21, 
Molly  Wright,  of  Woburn.  She  d.  1753.  May  5.  aged  41.  Lieut.  William 
Kittredge  "d.  1789,  April  28.  Ch.  Mary,  b.  1732.  Sept.  13.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1734-5,  Feb.  7;  m.  Jacob  French,  18.  William,  b.  1737,  April  25. 
Nehemiah,  13,  b.  1739.  March  1.  31artha,  b.  1741,  Aug.  23.  Lucia,  b.  1743, 
Aug.  12.  Buth,  b.  1745,  Nov.  7 ;  
d.  1749,  Oct.  12.  John,  b.  1747,  March  10. 
Job,  b.  1749,  Dec.  29. 
J)s     Francis,   son  of  John.   2,   b.   1706,  Oct.  27;  m.  Lydia    .who 
d.  1736,  Aug.  1,  and  he  m.  before  1740.  Susanna  Snow.     She  m.  2d,    
Phelps,  of  Andover,  and  3d.  Thomas  Kidder,  (J.  Ch.  Francis,  b.  1728,  July  1, 
m.  Abigail,  and  had  13  ch.  Josiah,  b.  1730,  July  25;  d.  1744,  May  4. 
^Zephaniah.  b.  1732,  May  27.  Lydia,  b.  1734,  July  28;  d.  1736.  Aug.  1. 
Solomon,  b.  1736.  June  9;  m.  Tabitha  Ingalls.  of  Andover.  and  had 
Solomon,  b.  1755.  Zephaniah.  b.  1757,  Aug.  24.  Tabitha.  b.  1758,  July  28. 
Josiah,  b.  1761,  July  26,  father  of  Rev.  Charles  B.  Kittredge,  D.  C,  1827. 
Phebe.  b.  1763,  June  5.  Stephen,  b.  1765,  June  27.  He  removed  to 
Amherst,  N..H.,  the  part  now  Mont  Vernon,  about  1766.  He  had  12  ch., 
and  his  gr.-ch.  were  very  numerous.  Reuben,  b.  1740,  Sept.  17;  d.  1743, 
March's.  Jessoniah,  b.  1742.  Oct.  20;  d.  1754,  April  18.  Susanna,  b.  1744, 
Nov.  9;  d.  1745,  June  17.  Susanna,  h.  1746.  May  26.  Bebecca,  b.  1747, 
May  26.  Reuben,  b.  1749,  June  30;  d.  1754.  May  13.  Josiah,  b.  1752, 
May  17;  d.  June  6.     ^6i«i,  b.  1753.  June  23. 
10.  James,  prob.   son  of  James.   3,   m.  Elizabeth    .     Ch.  James, 
b.  1729-30.  Feb.  15;  m.  Abigail  Stickney.  dau.  of  Abraham.  1,  and  had 
James,  b.  17.53,  March  3.  Ebenezer,  b.  'l732,  April  10.  Betti/,  b.  1736, 
April  9.     Sarah,  b.  1738.  April  18;  m.  Abraham  Stickney.  {see  1). 
11.  Thomas,  son  of  James.  3,  b.  1707-8,  Feb.  23;  m.  1727.  May  25, 
(so  the  record;  "7'  prob.  error  for  '6.')  Jane,  his  cousin,  who  d.  1779, 
June  25.  Ch.  Tliomas,  b.  1727,  April  10.  Jonathan,  b.  1728.  July  28. 
These  two  children  perished  in  the  burning  of  his  house  of  which  "  The 
 - 472 - 
KITTREDGE.  87 
New  England  Weekhj  Journah  Oct.  13,  1729.  gives  this  account:  "We  have 
received  the  following  melancholy  relation  from  Billerica.  That  on  the 
Lord's  day.  the  5th  instant,  a  house  was  burnt  there,  wherein  were  two 
small  children,  who  were  both  consumed  in  the  flames.  It  seems  the  heads 
of  the  family  were  gone  to  the  publick  worship,  and  left  at  liome,  three 
children,  the  eldest,  a  girl  of  about  twelve  years  old,  who  had  the  care  of 
the  others  ;  
but  she,  going  a  little  ways  from  the  house,  to  drive  some 
swine  that  had  got  into  the  corn  ;  
in  the  mean  time,  the  house  took  tire  and 
burnt  so  vehemently,  that  when  she  came  to  it,  she  could  not  get  into 
it,   or  do  anything  to  save  the  other  poor  children."'     Abu/ail,   b.   1730, 
May  26.      Thomas,   b.  1731.   Nov.   9.     He  in.  Anne    ;  
d.  180C,  Jan  16, 
having  ch.  Anne;  Joshua;  Jeremiah,  b.  1763,  Oct.  5;  Lucy;  Esther  and 
Mary.  Jeremiah  m.  Anne,  and  had  ch.  Anna,  b.  1794,  April  22;  Jeremiah 
b.  1796,  Sept.  5;  Pamilla;  Thomas  and  Rebecca.  Jeremiah  in.  Lydia 
Wood,  and  1842.  Oct.  19,  Clarissa  Chapman;  had  ch.  George  Albert, 
b.  1844.  Dec.  14;  d.  1879,  Sept.  15,  by  drowning  in  Kound  pond; 
and  Jeremiah  Chapman,  b.  1847,  Dec.  13,  who  m.  1874,  June  1,  Martha  Abby 
Stevens,  and  lives  on  the  family  homestead,  east  of  Round  pond.  Joshua^ 
b.  1733-4,  Feb.  16.  ,Sarah.  b.  1736,  June  4.  Johanna,  b.  1742,  May  1. 
Ilarij,  b.  1744.  July  20;  d.  1747,  Dec.  25. 
12.  Daniel,  son  of  Daniel.  4,  b.  1697,  Oct.  12-;  in.  1724.  July  8.  Ruth 
Shed,  dau.  of  Nathan,  6.  She  d.  1753^  Nov.  3,  and  a  wife  Sarah  d.  1758, 
Sept.  16.  Ch.  Daniel,  b.  1725.  April  10;  m.  1746,  March  17.  Sarah  French, 
dau.  of  William,  6;  had  William,  b.  1747,  Jan.  29.  and  John,  b.  1750, 
April  30;  d.  1753,  Mav  17.  and  his  widow  m.  Josiah  Kidder,  {see  5).  JRuth, 
b.  1726,  Sept.  23;  d.  Jan.  18.  SamveL  b.  1727,  Nov.  8;  d.  1775,  Sept.  4. 
Buth.  b.  1729,  July  21.  Nathan,  b.  1731,  June  8.  3Iarif.  b.  1733.  April  9; 
d.  1739.  Dec.  11.  Elizabeth,  b.  1735,  March  3 ;  d.  1739,  Dec.  7.  Mchittable, 
b.  1737,  March  1 ;  
d.  April  21.      Timothi/,  b.  1738,  May  15 ;  
d.  1758,  Sept.  15. 
Ebenezer,   b.   1739,    Oct.   8 ;  m.   Abigail    ,   who  "d.  1777.  July  20 ;  
Nathaniel,  b.  1753,  May  10,  and  4  other  ch.  Benjamin,  b.  1745,  June  16;hadd.  
Benoni,  d.  1753,  Nov.  29. 
13.  Nehemlah,  son  of  William,  8,  b.  1739,  March  1 ;  m.  2d,  1770, 
Feb.  28,  Mehittable  Dutton.  Ch.  Sarah,  bap.  1764.  July  8.  Mehittable, 
b.  1770.  June  20;  m.  Seth  Crosby.  31.  Nehemiah.  b.  17n,  Nov.  26;  lived 
in  Betlford.  N.  H.  ;  
Mount  Desert.  Me. had  4  ch.  'Kendal,  b.  1773,  Oct.  19;  a  physician  at 
Lwy.  b.  1775,  May  27;  d.  1776,  June  28.  Si.  14, 
b.  1777,  May  8.  Lucy.  b.  1779,  June  4;  d.  Sally,  b.  1781,  April  21  ;  
m.  1805, 
Nov.  14,  Isaac  Somes  _;  
lived  in  Fairfield,  Me.  William,  b.  1783,  Jan.  23; 
m.  1805,  Dec.  26,  Julia  Levistone,  dau.  of  Timothy,  7 ;  lived  in  Boston, 
Harvard  and  Goftstown,  N.  H.  Amia,  b.  1784.  Sept.  28;  m.  1815,  May, 
Jonas  Nutting,  of  JattVey,  N.  H.  John.  b.  1788,  June  3;  lived  in 
Washington,  X.  H.,  and  Medfield.     Betsey,  bap.  1790,  Jan.  10. 
14.  Si,  son  of  Nehemiah,  13,  b.  1777,  May  8;  m.  Mary  Lund 
of  Dunstable.  He  d.  1828,  July  1 ;  she  d.  1853.  May  7.  Ch.  Charles.  18, 
b.  1806.  March  30.  Edwin,  b.  1808.  Jan.  25:  d.  in"  St.  Louis,  about  1837. 
John  Sumner,  b.  1816;  lives  in  Bradford.  N.  H.  Marietta,  h.  (?,)  1818; 
m.  Abram  M.  Alpaugh,  of  Lowell;  d.  in  Quincy.  Preston  Pollard, 
b.  1822  ;  
lives  in  Quincy,  Jusiah  Nelson,  b.  1826  ;  
d.  during  the  War  in 
Quincy. 
15.  Francis.     Ch.  Joel  Crosby  and  Charlotte,  bap.  1798,  July  29. 
16.  Jacob,  M.  D.,  son  of  Dr.  Benjamin,  of  Tewksbury,  (see  5,)  was 
b.  1781,  Dec.  19;  practised  medicine  in  Billerica,  after  1800.  and  in  1815, 
removed  to  Gallipolis.  O.,  and  d.  there,  1824.  Oct.  22.  He  m.  1813.  Nov.  17, 
Harriet  Pierce,  of  Salem.  A  dau.  m.  Mr.  Jacob  Coggin,  of  Tewksbury, 
and  another  is  Mrs.  H.  M.  Lawton.  of  Santa  Barbara,  Cal.  Tlie  Catalogue 
of  the  Mass.  Medical  Society  names  a  Dr.  Jacob  K.,  of  Billerica,  andhis 
death  in  1831,  which  seems  doubtful. 
17.  Hezekiali,  son  of  Solomon  Porter  Kittredge,  was  b.  in  Mont 
Vernon,   N.   H.  ;  in.   Rebecca    .     He  d.   1861,   July   23,   aged  68;  she 
 - 473 - 
88  KITTREDGE— LANE. 
d.  1863,  Oct.  1.  aged  69.  Ch.  Hezekiah  Porter,  b.  in  Tewksbury,  1816, 
Nov.  2.  Solomon,  b.  1818.  Sept.  8.  in  Mont  Vernon.  N.  H. ;  lives  in 
Townsend.  Henri/,  b.  1820.  Nov.  11  ;  ni.  and  d.  1878,  in  Leoniinster. 
Sitsan,  b.  1823,  March  16;  d.  1825.  April  17.  EUznhetlu  b.  182.5,  Feb.  28; 
in.  and  d.  in  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt.,  1866.  John,  19,  b.  1827,  (the  record  says 
1826,  contrary  to  the  belief  of  Mr.  K.,)  Jan.  17.  Eathor,  b.  1828,  Oct.  8 ; 
n).  Bailey  Ferrin,  and  lives  in  Leominster.  Edwin  and  Edward,  b.  18.S1, 
Aug.  ").  Edwin  ni.  and  lives  in  Bethel.  Vt.  Thomas,  b.  1833,  July  20; 
ni.  and  lives  in  Boston.  Svsan,  b.  1837,  Dec.  11;  d.  aged  two  years. 
3Iary  Ann  b.  1840,  May  17;  d.  Sept. 
IS.  Charles,  son  of  Si.  14,  b.  1806.  March  30;  ni.  1832.  Jan.,  Nancy 
Dunlap  Kennedv.  of  Gott'stown,  N.  II.  ('h.  Charlea  and  Mary  Ann,.  Ellen 
Maria,  b.  1843.  March  30. 
19.  John,  son  of  Hezekiah,  17,  b.  1827,  Jan.  17;  m.  1861.  Nov.  16, 
Buth  IVIurray.  from  Nova  Scotia.  Ch.  Thomas  Hezekiah,  b.  1863,  March  6. 
Lizzie  li..  b.'l864.  April  24. 
KNAPP,  Daniel  L.,  m.  180.3,  Nov.  10,  Julia  Manning,  dau.  of 
Jesse,  14.  Ch.  Elizabeth  Mannimj,  bap.  1806.  April  13.  Euth.,  bap.  1808, 
Feb.  28.     Daniel  and  David  Manning,  bap.  1811,  Feb.  10. 
KNEELAND.     1.     John.     Ch.  Samuel  Abbot,  bap.  1777,  Jan.  18. 
2.     Abner,  of  Boston,  ni.  1834,  Dec.  25,  Mrs.  Dolly  L.  Rice,  of  Billerica. 
LAMPSON.  1.  Samuel,  came  from  Amlierst,  N.  H.,  in  1762.  His 
will  entered  for  probate,  1779,  April  20;  names  wife  Phebe  and 
ch.  Samuel,  2;  Jonathan,  who  d.  in  Amherst,  1815,  Dec,  aged  90;  Rebecca 
(Taylor;)  Sarah  (Gage)  and  Abigail  (EUenwood,)  who  d.,  leaving  son 
Benjamin  Tuck. 
2.  Samuel  m.  1770,  Nov.  6,  Eebecca  Crosby.  He  is  named  in  his 
father's  will,  1777,  March  5,  but  not  at  the  bap.  of  his  ch.  In  1810,  or  later, 
Eebecca  Lampson  was  living  on  the  Woburn  road,  south-east  of  Bare  hill. 
Ch.  Rebecca,  bap.  1778.  July  25. 
LANE,  Job,  was  prob.  from  Eickmansworth,  in  Hertfordshire,  where 
lands  which  he  inherited  were  located,  {N.  E.  H.  and  G.  Reg.,  Vol.  XVII, 
p.  266,)  and  in  1654,  was  30  years  old.  That  he  was  the  Job  Lane 
at  Rehoboth,  1644,  is  not  prob.  He  was  a  carpenter,  and  made  payment 
for  the  •  
Winthrop  farm,'  of  1500  acres,  which  he  purchased  in  1664,  Aug.  2, 
for  £230.  bj'  building  a  house  in  New  London,  Conn.,  for  Fitz  John 
Winthrop.  He  also  ^uilt  the  great  bridge  in  1668.  He  owned  a 
considerable  estate  in  England,  the  rents  of  which  he  received  during  life, 
bequeathing  the  property  to  his  son,  John.  He  lived,  first,  in  Maiden, 
removing  to  Billerica  probably  in  1664,  and  after  about  20  years  residence, 
he  returned  to  Maiden,  where  he  d.  1697.  Aug.  23.  His  house  was  the  only 
one  bej^ond  Ealph  Hill's,  towards  Concord,  until  after  1675,  when  on 
account  of  his  remote  situation,  he  was  permitted  to  garrison  his  own 
house.  The  place  is  probably  that  now  occupied  by  Hiram  Dutton,  on  the 
east  side  of  the  road,  a  few  rods  north  from  Huckin's  street,  and  it  is  not 
impossible  that  the  ancient  house  of  Mr.  Dutton  is  the  same  which  he 
built.  He  bought,  in  Maiden,  the  Coytmore  Mill  of  Mrs.  John  Coggan. 
and  bequeathed  it  to  his  son-in-law.  Edward  Sprague.  Mrs.  Coggan's 
first  husband  was  Thomas  Coytmore.  and  her  second  husband.  Gov.  John 
Winthrop,  on  whose  account  this  lady  had  received  the  grant  of  3000  acres 
at  Wamesit.   His  first  wife  was  Sarah    .  who  d.  1659,  about  May  19.     He 
ni.  1660,  Sept.,  Anna,  dau.  of  Eev.  John  Eeyner,  pastor  of  the  church  in 
Plymouth,  from  1636  to  1654,  and  in  Dover,  N.  H.,  from  1655  to  his  death, 
1669.  ^Vpril  20,  his  son  John  succeeding  him  in  the  pastorate.  Job  Lane 
d.  in  Maiden.  1097,  Aug.  23,  aged  77.  His  widow  d.  1704,  April  30,  aged 
72.  Ch.  Sarah  m.  Sanuiel  Fitch  of  Eeading;  d.  1679.  Oct.  2,  leaving  one 
son,  Sanmel,  1.  Mary  m.  William  Aver}%  of  Dedham  ;  had  Marv, 
b.  1674,  Aug.,  and  3  other  ch.  ;  
d.  1681,  Oct.  11,  aged  29.  Rebecca,  b.  1658, 
April  ;  
d.  1074,  April  6.  Elizabeth  m.  1677,  April  3,  Eobert  Avery,  of 
Dedham,  the  mother  of  6  ch.,  of  whom  John  grad.  H.  C.  1706.     John,  2, 
 - 474 - 
LANE.  89 
b.  1661,  Oct.  Anna,  b.  1662.  Sept.;  d.  Xov.  28.  Anna  m.  James  Foster, 
of  Dorchester;  d.  five  daj^s  before  h^r  husband,  1732,  Sept.  29.  aged  67. 
Jemima,  b.  1606,  Aug.  19;  ui.  Matthew  Whipple,  of  Ipswich,  and  had  one 
child.  Matthew,  who  inherited  one-fourth  part  of  the  Winthrop  farm,  "his 
upland  to  ly  at  a  place  commonly  called  the  two  brothers."  Dorothy, 
b.  1669,  July  24;  m.  1693,  Nov.  24,  Edward  Sprague,  of  Maiden,  and  had 
three  children. 
2.  John,  son  of  Job,  1,  b.  1661,  Oct.  ;  inherited  one-half  of  the 
Winthrop  farm.  He  was  colonel  of  the  militia,  and  very  active  during  the 
Indian  alarms,  before  and  after  1700,  as  elsewhere  related;  a  leading  citizen. 
He  m.  1681-2,  March  20,  Susanna  Whipple,  dau.  of  John,  of  Ipswich. 
She  d.  1713,  Aug.  4,  aged  about  51 :  he  d.  1714-.5,  Jan.  17.  Ch.  Susanna,, 
b.  1682-3,  Jan.  24;  m.  Nathaniel  Page,  2.  Job.  b.  1684,  Nov.  19;  d.  Jan.  7. 
Mary.  b.  1686,- May  15;  m.  John  Whitmore,  of  Medford.  and  was  mother 
of  6  ch.  and  a  numei'ous  posterity,  of  whom  is  Hon.  William  H.  Whitmore, 
of  Boston.  She  d.  in  Bedford,  1783.  March  27.  Jemima,  h.  1688,  June  27; 
d.  July  10.  Job,  3,  b.  1689,  June  22.  John,  4,  b.  1691,  Oct.  20.  Martha, 
b.  1694.  Oct.  1;  m.  1716,  Nov.  14,  James  Minot,  of  Concord;  d.  1735, 
Jan.  18.  Col.  Minot  was  a  leading  citizen;  active  for  30  years  in  military 
aftairs.  He  d.  1759,  Feb.  6,  aged  64.  James,  5,  b.  1696,  Aug.  12.  Joseph, 
b.  1698-9,  Jan.  18 ;  
d.  before  his  father. 
3.  Job,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1689,  June  22;  m.  1713,  Dec.  16,  (or  17,) 
Martha  Euggles,  of  Eoxbury,  a  sister  of  Rev.  Samuel  Ruggles.    At  the 
date   of  his   will,   1762,   Sept.   1.   he  had  a  second  wife  Mary    ,  who 
d.   1783,   Dec.   11.     He  inherited  the  homestead.     Ch.    Martha,   b.   1716. 
June  :^2;  m.     Adams.      Job,  b.  1718,  Sept.  27.     John.  b.  1720,  Oct.  2; 
d.  in  Bedford,  1789,  Dec.  7.  Timothy,  b.  1722,  July  10;  d.  1793,  Dec.  3. 
3Iary,  b.  1724-5,  Feb.  24;  m.  Jonathan  Hill,  15,  Whipple,  b.  1727,  Sept.  5; 
d.  1728.  Oct.  4.     Banjamin,  b.  1729,  Aug.  29;  not  mentioned  in  his  father's 
will.     Lucy.  b.  1732,  May  3;  m.     Stearns.     Hannah  and  Sarah,  b.  1733, 
Sept.  22;  d.  Oct.  and  Dec.  11. 
4.  John,  son  of  Col.  John.  2,  b.  1691,  Oct.  20;  m.  1714,  Dec.  31, 
Katharine  Whiting,  dau.  of  Samuel,  2.     She  d.  1731,  April  1,  aged  39;  he 
m.  Hannah    ,  who  d.  1769,  April  22.      Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1716,  Oct.  14. 
Katharine,  b.  1717,  June  27.  Susanna,  b.  1720,  April  8.  John.  b.  1722, 
July  1.  Matthew,  b.  1724,  July  10.  Samuel,  b.  1727.  April  15;  d.  1734, 
April  1.  Hannah,  b,  1734.  May  16;  d.  1741,  June  2.  Samuel,  b.  1737, 
Oct.  21.     Matthew,  b.  1741,  Aug.  5. 
5.  James,  son  of  Col.  John.  2,  b.  1696.  Aug.  12;  m.  1719,  April  30, 
Martha  Minot,  of  Concord.  She  d.  1762,  July  3,  aged  63.  and  Charity,  his 
wife.  d.  1764,  Dec.  16.  He  d.  1783,  April  11.  Ch.  Martha,  b.  1721-2, 
March  17.  Bebecca,  b.  1723,  Oct.  29.  James,  b.  1725-6.  March  8 ;  
d.  in 
Bedford.  1799.  Jan.  24.  Marcy.  b.  1730,  Dec.  24;  d.  1736-7,  March  4.  David 
b,  1733-4,  March  17;  d.  1756,  Dec.  29.  Love.  d.  1735,  Aug.  13.  Susanna, 
b.  1735-6,  Jan.  18;  d.  1749-50,  Feb.  24.     Samuel,  b.  1737,  July  11. 
6.  Job.  Whether  this  man  had  any  connection  with  the  previous 
families,  is  unknown.  He  may  have  been  an  English  relative,  who  came 
to  America,  near  1700;  or  a  descendant  of  Job  Lane,  of  Rehoboth,  or  of 
other  Lanes  who  had  been  in  America.  He  m.  Mary  Fasset.  dau  of 
Patrick.  1.  Ch.  Mary,  b.  1706-7,  Jan.  18.  Joseph,  b.  1708,  Dec.  11. 
Susanna,  b.  1710-1,  March  2.  Job  and  Elizabeth,  b.  1713-4,  Jan.  29. 
Samuel,  b.  1716,  April  7.  Silence,  b.  1719,  April  2.  Elizabeth,  b.  1722-3, 
March  17. 
7.  John  m.  1798,  Jan.  7,  Mary  Levistone.  dau.  of  Timothy,  7. 
Ch.  Georr/e.  bap.  1799,  April  14.     Timothy,  bap.  1801,  Sept.  20. 
8  Albert  Clarence,  m.  d.,  son  of  Anthony  K.,  b.  in  Chichester,  N.  H., 
1851,  Nov.  29;  took  his  degree  in  medicine.  Long  Island  College  Hospital, 
1879,  and  settled  at  once  in  Billerica;  m.  1880,  Jan.  1,  Estella  J.  Davis,  of 
Pittsfield,  N.  H. 
 - 475 - 
90  LAWS  —  LEVISTONE. 
LAWS.  1.  James,  ni.  173G,  Nov.  13,  Eunice  Hosley,  dau  of  James,  1, 
His  naiiic  gives  place  to  hers  on  the  tax-list  in  177G.  Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1737, 
Nov.  20.  Eunia',  b.  1739-40.  Jan.  20;  ni.  William  Carleton.  of  Rowley 
Canada,  [Kindge,]  N.  H.  James,  2,  b.  1741-2,  March  12,  3Iary,  b.  1744, 
May  25.  WilUum,  b.  174G.  April  10;  ui.  1774,  March  17,  Judith  Sprake, 
dg^u.  of  Sanuiel,  5,  and  1779.  Aug.  4.  widow  Sarah  Tay,  dau.  of  Paul 
Cook.  1.  ,l<ihn.  3,  b.  1748,  Julv  13.  Stephen,  b.  1751,  May  15.  Lucy,  h. 
1753,  Julv  14.     Elizabeth,  h.  175G,  Oct.  3. 
2.  James,  son  of  James,  1,  b.  1741-2,  March  12;  m.  1765,  Feb.  7, 
Anne  Danforth.     Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  17GG,  July  28.     Anne,  b,  1768,  Feb.  18. 
3.  John,  son  of  James,  1,  b.  1748,  July  13;  m.  1774,  Dec.  29,  Sarah 
Spaulding,  of  Chelmsford.  They  removed  to  Sharon,  N.  H.  Ch.  Sally, 
b.  1780,  April  15;  d.  1781,  June  7.  Elam,  bap.  1782,  Sept.  29.  Salhj,  bap. 
1784,  Sept.  5.  Francis,  bap.  178G.  Sept.  10.  Betty,  b.  1790,  Dec.  26.  James; 
b.  1792,  Aug.  17. 
LEONARD,  Uriah,  of  Stoughton,  m.  1736,  Sept.  9,  Elizabeth  Farley. 
Ch.    Uriah,  b.  1739,  March  14. 
LEVISTONE.  1.  John,  '^Scotchman."  Thomas  Carrier,  1677,  Nov. 
and  "his  man,  Jxihn  Levistone,"  are  warned  out  to  brush  cutting  in  the 
south-east  part  of  the  town.  He  m.  1681,  Sept.  12,  Margaret  Koss,  dau.  of 
Thomas,  1,  and  settled  near  North  Billerica,  where  his  family  was 
desolated  by  the  Indians  in  1695.  His  wife  d.  1705,  June  16,  and  he  m.  1705, 
Nov.  29,  Eunice  Shed,  dau.  of  Daniel.  1.  He  was  then  "of  Chelmsford." 
Ch.  John,  2,  b.  1681-2,  March  1.  Margaret,  b.  1683.  Aug.  29;  d.  Dec.  22. 
Sarah,  b.  1684,  Nov.  12;  taken  captive,  1695,  Aug.  5,  when  the  five 
following  were  massacred:  Seth,  b.  1687,  April  G.  Thomas,  b.  1688-9, 
Feb.  6.  Mary,  b.  1690,  Dec.  16.  Margaret,  b.  1G93,  May  26,  and  Alexander, 
b.  1695,  about  July  1.  Seth,  3,  b.  1696-7,  Feb.  9.  Hannah,  b.  1698-9, 
Feb.  5.  Sa7-ah,  b.  1700,  Dec.  4;  m.  Jonathan  Dutton,  8.  3Iary,  b.  1703, 
April  17;  d.  1704-5,  Feb.  14. 
2.-  John,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1681-2,  March  1;  m.  Ruth  Shed,  dau.  of 
Daniel,  2.  Sergt.  John  Levistone  d.  1755,  June  27 ;  his  widow,  1756, 
April  5.  Ch.  Ihtth,  b.  1710,  July  14.  John,  b.  1712,  June  12;  m.  1736-7, 
Feb.  15,  Sarah  Toothaker.  dau.  of  Roger,  2;  lived  in  Tewksbury;  had  8  ch. 
Thomas,  4,  b.  1714,  Aug.  3.  Daniel,  b.  1716-7,  March  4.  Eunice,  b.  1719, 
May  18.     Sarah,  b.  If21.  June  26. 
3.  Seth,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1696-7,  Feb.  9;  m.  1720-1,  March  2, 
Hannah  Frost,  dau.  of  James.  5.  She  d.  1726,  Dec.  19,  and  he  m.  1727, 
July  6,  Hannah  Hopkins,  dau.  of  William,  1.       She  d.  1740,  Aug.  18,  and 
he  in.  1744,  June  20,  Prudence    .      He  d.  17.54,  Dec.  16.       He  lived  in 
Tewksbury.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1721-2,  March  1.  Seth.  5,  b.  1723.  Nov.  9. 
Marqaret,  b.  1724-5,  March  17.  Bette  and  Bebccca,  b.  1726,  Nov.  6.  Bette 
d.  .Jan.  30.  William,  b.  1728,  April  27.  Deborah,  b.  1730,  March  9. 
Deborah,  b.  1736-7,  Jan.  1.  Abigail,  b.  1737-8,  Feb.  27.  Benjamin,  b.  1743. 
April  8. 
4.  Thomas,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1714.  Aug.  3;  ni.  1737,  July  19, 
Elizabeth  Frost,  dau.  of  Samuel,  7.  She  d.  without  issue,  and  he  m.  Phebe 
Stone,  of  Tewksbury.  Ch.  Lydia.  b.  1751,  Sept.  2;  m.  Solomon  Sanders,  10. 
John,  b.  1753,  June  25;  m.  1778.  Nov.  19,  Elizabeth  Levistone,  dau.  of 
Seth,  5.  Thomas,  b.  1756,  Sept.  7;  m,  1793,  Aug.  20,  Anna  Danforth,  dau. 
of  Benjamin,  12.  He  d.  1795,  April  21.  Hannah,  b.  1760,  Feb.  22; 
m.  Ebenezer  Tufts.  Elizabeth,  b.  1762,  Oct.  14;  m.  1802,  Feb.  21,  Jonathan 
Tarble,  5.  William,  b.  1765,  June  31;  m.  1794,  April  8,  Hannah  Frost, 
dau.  of  Joshua,  14.     Nathamel,  6,  b.  1771.  Sept.  2. 
5.  Seth,  son  of  Seth,  3,  b.  1723,  Nov.  9;  m.  Mary  Sprake,  dau. 
of  Nicholas.  2.  Ch.  rt?/io</i.v,  7,  b.  1750,  Feb.  15.  iVo?/e,  b.  1751,  May  18; 
m.  David  Sanders,  11.  Set'h,,H,  b.  1753,  May  3.  Isaac,  b.  1755,  Jan.  13; 
m.  1777,  Dec.  18,  Judith  Sanders,  dau.  of  David,  5.  Elizabeth,  b.  1756, 
Nov.  2;  m.  John  Levistone,  (see  4).  Deborah,  b.  1758,  Nov.  28.  The 
Baptismal  Record  names  this  child  Rebecca.       William.  9,  b.  1761.  Feb.  19. 
 - 476 - 
LEVISTONE  —  LEWIS.  91 
Benjamin,  b.  1763.  Dec.  7.  Sarah,  b.  170G.  Feb.  18;  m.  178G,  Dee.  19, 
Samuel  Lut'kin,  of  Chelmsford.  Lurij.  b.  1767,  July  21;  in.  1785,  Nov.  7, 
Moses  Fifield. 
6.  Nathaniel,  son  of  Thomas.  4,  b.  1771,  Sept.  2;  removed  about 
1800.  to  Hojikino-ton,  >J".  H.  :  
Ch.  Nathaniel,  b.  17i)l,  June  16.  Lyclia, 
b.  1793,  April  ■24r,  m.Tti-^iflowe.  of  Henniker.      Polh/,    h.    1796.   Feb.    22. 
Fh('be,   b.   1798,   Feb.   3;  m.      Marshall,   of  Weare.      Thomas.     Enoch. 
James.    Michael.     Lucy,  m.  Nathan  ]Mears,  4. 
7.  Timothy,  son  of  Seth,  5,  b.  1750.  Feb.  15;  m.  1775.  March  28. 
Marv  Danfortli,  dau.  of  Benjamin,  12.  Cli.  3Iolli/,  b.  1777,  Dec.  23; 
in.  John  Lane,  7.  Timothy,  b.  1779.  Oct.  19.  Alice,  bap.  1783,  Jan.  19. 
Julia,  b.  1785,  May  9;  m.  William  Kittredge,  (see  13).  Je2ihthath,  hup. 
1787.  Nov.  4. 
8.  Seth,  son  of  Seth,  5,  b.  1753,  May  3.  Ch..  perhaps  Anna,  who  m, 
Samuel  Sprake,  (see  6).     Jephthah,  bap.  1781,  Sept.  9. 
9.  William,  son  of  Seth,  5,  b.  1761,  Feb.  19 ;  
m.  Elizabeth.  Ch.  Betsey, 
b.  1788,  April  5.      William,  b.  1790,  May  22.     Nancy,  b.  1793,  Jan.  14. 
10.  David.  Birth  not  recorded;  m.  1770,  Oct.  11,  Sarah  Clark. 
Ch.  David,  b.  1775.  Aug.  2.     Sarah,  b.  1777.  Dec.  10. 
11.  Dorcas,  a  widow,  had  Abigail  bap.  1756,  Aug.  22. 
12.  Mary  had  John  Dandley.  b.  1758«June  28. 
LEWIS.  1.  Samuel,  of  Woburn,  •*19,4,  *83,"  was  '•cautioned"  by 
the  Selectmen  "to  dei)art  our  town."  and  the  Court  was  notified  that  he. 
In  his  obduracy,  ••refused."  He  was  here  in  1686,  to  have  trouble  about 
his  tax  ;  
but  a  Billerica  gii-1  thought  better  than  the  town  did  of  him,  for 
he  m.  1683,  April  3,  Sarah  Dutton,  dau.  of  Thomas.  1.  He  lived,  after,  in 
Maiden,  where  a  dau.  Hannah  was  b.  1689,  Dec.  12.  He  d.  1699,  Feb.  1 ; 
his  widow  m.  Sainuel  Dix,  of  Reading. 
2.  Benjamin  m.  Elizabeth  Jaquith.  sister  of  Abraham,  1.  He  d.  1777. 
Sept.  23,  aged  73,  and  his  wife,  8  days  later,  Oct.  1,  aged  70. 
Ch.  Benjamin,  3,  b.  1729,  Sept.  28.  Jonathan,  4,  b.  1731,  April  10. 
Elisabeth,  b.  1733,  Jan.  8 ;  m.  1760,  Jan.  29,  Jacob  Baldwin,  of  Townsend. 
James,  5,  b.  1735,  Sept.  25.  John,  6,  b.  1737.  Aug.  5.  Beuben,  b.  1739, 
Sept.  25 ;  m.  1770,  May  17,  Abial  Shed.  dau.  of  Daniel.  12.  He  d.  1804, 
May  4.  in  Groton.  Mary,  b.  1741,  Nov.  13;  d.  1749,  June  6.  Esther^ 
b.  1744,  May  28;  m.  1764,  March  22,  Abijah  Wood.  Samuel,  b.  1746, 
June  10;  in.  1773.  June  3,  Bette  Parker.  He  was  then  of  Chelmsford. 
Sarah,  b.  1748,  June  30 ;  
d.  1749,  June  3.  Ebenezer,  b.  1750,  Dec.  4;  m.  1772, 
Sept.  29,  Ruth  Parker,  dau.  of  Benjamin,  11,  and  at  Groton.  1773,  Aug.  21, 
Sarah  Bennett.  They  had  William,  b.  1774,  March  25,  and  Sarah,  b.  1776, 
Feb.  26.     He  d.  in  the  hospital  at  Cambridge,  1776.  Jan.  10. 
3.  Benjamin,  son  of  Benjamin,  2,  b.  1729,  Sept.  28;  m.  1752,  April  9, 
Mary  Brown,  dau.  of  Samuel,  7.  Ch.  Benjamin,  b.  1753,  May  6;  m.  1775, 
July  IS,  Sarah  Blanchard.  dau.  of  Samuel,  3.  Mary.,  h.  1755,  Jan.  19; 
m.  1779,  Nov.  30,  Ainos  Boardman.  of  Reading.  Asa,  h.  1756,  Oct.  22. 
Sarah,  b.  1758,  June  14;  m.  1784.  Dec.  23.  Zebadiah  Holt,  of  Andover. 
Hannah,  b.  1761,  Jan.  12.  P««e,  b.  1763,  March  3.  Kezia,  b.  1766,  June  22. 
Moses,  b.  1770,  April  17. 
4.  Jonathan,  son  of  Benjamin,  2,  b.  1731,  April  10;  m.  1755,  April  3, 
Persis  Crosby,  dau.  of  Simon,  6.  After  1756.  he  lived  in  Peijperell. 
Ch.  Persis,  b.  1755,  Dec.  15.  ,/onathan,  b.  1758.  March  20.  3Iary,  b.  1761, 
April  3.  Bhoda,  b.  1763,  Oct.  17.  Isaac,  b.  1766,  Feb.  4;  m.  1806,  June  29, 
Mary  Holt.  David,  b.  1768,  May  7.  Anna,  b.  1770,  July  17.  Abigail., 
b.  1773,  Oct.  2. 
5.  James,  son  of  Benjamin,  2,  b.  1735,  Sept.  25;  ra.  1760,  Jan.  3, 
Rebecca  Brown,  dau.  of  Samuel,  7.  Removed  to  Groton,  1796.  He  d. 
there,  1810,  June  12;  she  d.  1814,  Jan.  1.  Ch.  James,  7,  b.  1761',  Jan.  26. 
Rebecca,  b.  1762,  July  15 ;  
d.  1809,  June  21.  Setli,  b.  1764,  Jan".  1 ;  
d.  Jan.  3. 
Bizpah,  b.  1765,  March  3 ;  
d.  March  17.  Seth,  b.  1766,  Sept.  22.  Bizpah, 
b.  1768,  May  6;  d.  1776,  Jan.  9.      Aaron,  b.  1770,  June  27;  d.  1776,  Jan.  12. 
 - 477 - 
92  LEWIS— LYMAN. 
6.  John,  son  of  Benjamin,  2,  b.  1737.  Aug.  5.  Ch.  Hpury,  bap.  1769, 
July  16.  Mullij,  bap.  1772,  July  12.  Sarah,  bap.  1775,  April  9.  Benjamin, 
bap.  1778,  June  21.  Juhii,  bap.  1782,  Aug.  11  ;  m.  1806.  July  27,  Ehoda 
Baldwin. 
7.  James,  son  of  James,  6,  b.  1761,  Jan.  26;  ni.  1782,  Dec.  19,  Lucy 
Crosby,  dau.  of  Hezekiah.  21.  Removed  to  Groton,  1796,  where  he  d.  1828, 
Dec.  24;  his  wife  d.  Dec.  30.  Ch.  James,  b.  1785,  Feb.  1;  grad.  D.  C,  1807; 
read  law  with  Judge  Dana,  of  Groton.  and  practised  his  profession  in 
Marlboro  and  Pepperell;  m.  1819,  Jan.  17.  Harriet  Paiker,  of  Pepperell; 
d.  in  Bostcm,  1845,  Feb.  6.  Aaron,  b.  1786,  Dec.  11 ;  m.  1814.  Dec.  28, 
Sarah  Spalding;  d.  in  Groton,  1849,  Oct.  9.  Levi,  b.  1788,  Nov.  28. 
Andrew,  b.  1790,  Oct.  19.  Lucy.  b.  1792,  June  15;  d.  1794,  Dec.  31.  Merric, 
b.  1795.  July  25 ;  d.  in  Groton.  1857,  April  23. 
LOCKE,.  Joseph,  was  a  distinguished  member  of  the  legal  profession, 
who  resided  for  32  years  in  towni.  He  was  b.  in  Fitzwilliam,  N.  H.,  1772, 
April  8;  grad.  D.  C,  1797;  studied  law  with  Timothy  Bigelow,  and 
commenced  practice  here  in  1801,  (See  Sketch  in  Lowell  Contributions,  etc., 
Vol.  I,  p.  65.  Dartmouth  Alumni  says  he  was  in  Acton.  1800-3). 
He  often  represented  the  town  in  the  Legislature;  was  a  Justice  of 
the  Court  of  Couunon  Pleas.  1816;  Presidential  Elector  the  same  year; 
Chief  Justice  of  Middlesex  CouiUy  Court  of  Sessions,  1819-27;  member  of 
the  Constitutional  Convention,  1820,  and  of  the  Executive  Council,  1821-2. 
Removing  to  I^owell,  1833,  he  was  there,  Judge  of  the  Police  Court  for 
13  years;  a  good  lawj^er;  an  ui)right  Judge,  and  an  honest  and  true  man. 
He  m.  1803,  Nov.  16.  Lydia,  dau.  of  Gen.  Nathaniel  Goodwin,  of 
Plymouth;  d.  in  Lowell.  1853,  Nov.  10.  Ch.  Charles  Henry,  b.  1804, 
Nov.  23;  m.  1829,  June  18,  Ann,  dau.  of  William  Go  wen.  of  Medford,  and 
widow  of  AVilliam  Hale,  of  Boston.  Merchant  and  Editor  of  Boston 
Galaxy;  The  Tiyceum  ;  
Lowell  Courier,  and  Boston  Times.  He  d.  1841, 
Jan.  9.  George,  b.  1806,  Feb.  3;  d.  1812,  Jan.  17.  Harriet,  b.  1807,  Nov.  12; 
m.  1838,  May  2,  John  D.  Locke,  a  planter  of  Louisville,  Ky. ;  now  a  widow 
in  Plymouth.  JMai-y  Ann,  b.  1809,  March  11 ;  m.  1837,  March  1,  her  cousin, 
Albert  Locke.  He  grad.  H.  C,  1829;  Preceptor,  Billerica  Academy,  1830; 
Clerk  of  Police  Court,  and  of  the  Common  Council,  Lowell,  until  death, 
1840,  Sept.  26.  Frances  Caldwell,  b.  1811,  Jan.  28;  d.  in  Plymouth. 
William,  b.  1814,  Feb.  27 ;  
d.  in  Canton,  China,  1833,  Dec.  22 ;  
fell  from  the 
maintop  of  the  ship.  Hannah  Goodwin,  b.  1815,  Dec.  24;  m.  1846,  May  26, 
William  Foster,  a  merchant  in  Boston  and  Windsor,  Vt.  George,  b.  1819, 
Aug.  29;  d.  1826,  Aug.  31,  (grave-stone). 
LOVE  JOT.  1.  Isaac,  is  on  tax-list,  1769-74;  prob.  father  of  Samuel 
and  of  Deborah,  who  m.  Daniel  Ordway. 
2.  Saiimel  Abbot  was  b.  in  Hebron,  N.  H.  He  removed  to  Billerica, 
and  m.  here,  2d,  1817,  Dec.  4,  Sally  Hobait,  and  1838,  March  1,  Mehitable 
Hanaford;  d.  1851.  Dec.  12,  aged  70.  Ch.  James  Abbot,  3,  b.  1805,  July  16, 
in  Hebron.     Maria  Melissa,  b.  1839,  March  22. 
3.  James  Abbot,  son  of  Samuel,  2,  b.  1805,  July  16 ;  
m.  1831,  April  17, 
Mahala  Stearns,  dau.  of  Joseph,  17.  Ch.  Anne  Francis,  b.  1832,  April  9; 
d.  1861,  Oct.  20.  Sarah  Melissa,  b.  1835,  Sept.  18;  m.  1862,  Feb.  27,  Joshua 
B.  Brigham,  of  Providence;  d.  1867,  Nov.  25.  James  Alonzo,  b.  1842, 
Feb.  5 ;  d.  1869,  Jan.  6. 
LOW,  Joseph  L.  and  wife  Sally.  Ch.  Liicy,  b.  1808,  Feb.  24.  Susannah 
Mariah,  b.  1810,  Jan.  3.  Nathan  Wood,  b.  1812,  Jan.  24.  Mary  Ann, 
b.  1814,  Jan.  9.     Sarah  Jane,  b.  1815,  Sept.  15. 
LUKE,  Daniel  and  wife  Emily.  Ch.  Addis  Emmet,  b.  1837,  Aug.  27. 
George  Washington  Lafayette,  b.  1839,  April  22.  Charlotte  Cornelia,  b.  1840, 
Oct.  27.     Caroline  Marintha.  b.  1842,  Nov.  25. 
LUND,  William,  m.  1803,  Dec.  1,  Polly  Clark. 
LYMAN,  George,  from  Weston,  m.  1823,  Feb.,  Mary  Kussell,  dau.  of 
John,  3,  and  2d,  Susan  Cutting,  who  d.  1843,  Sept.  20,  aged  58 ;  and 
he  m.   1844,   May,   Mrs.  Abigail  Peabody,  dau.  of  Asa  Needham,  6.    He 
 - 478 - 
LYMAN— MANNING.  93 
d.  1864,  April  26,  aged  89.  Ch.  George  Otis;  William;  Lewis,  2;  Abigail; 
Susan;  3Iary ;  Ann;  Harriet;  Levi;  Susan  Jane,  b.  1846.  April  30;  in.  1868. 
Sept.  30,  Joseph  W.  Green,  landlord,  prior  to  1879,  of  the  hotel,  corner  of 
Andover  street. 
2.  Lewis  J.,  son  of  George,  m.  1845.  Feb.  6,  Martha  Ann  Winter, 
dau.  of  Stephen,  1.  He  went  to  Woburn.  Ch.  George  W.  d.  1848.  Auo-.  20, 
aged  17  days. 
MACCARTY,  William  Greenough,  son  of  Thaddeus,  of  Boston,  m. 
1785,  Dec.  28,  Hannah  Soley,  dau.  of  John;  d.  1791.  Aug.  13;  his  widow 
m,  1796,  May  16,  Nathan  Adams,  of  Charlestown;  d.  1842,  Jan.  26,  aged  80. 
MACE.  1.  Eliphalet,  prob.  b.  in  Kittery,  1737,  Aug.  2;  m.  Sarah 
  .     Ch.  Eliphalet,  b.  1762,  Nov.  9. 
2.  Daniel,  of  Tewksbury,  and  Priscilla.  Ch.  Priscilla,  b.  1738, 
Aug.  24;  m.  John  French,  11.     Prob.  Behecca,  who  m.  Levi  Davis,  8. 
MACKGrlNNIS,  Daniel,  in.  in  Woburn,  1676-7,  Feb.  10,  Rose  Neal. 
He  was  in  this  town,  1678-80,  and  prob.  returned  to  Woburn  after  being  not 
admitted  in  Watertown.  Ch.  Bose.  b.  1677,  Nov.  19.  Daniel,  b.  1678-9, 
Feb.  14.     Mary,  b.  1680,  Aug.  22.     Edmund,  b.  1685,  March  23. 
MAJf,  Thomas,  m.  1731-2,  Jan.  23,  Ann  Hazeltine. 
MANMNG.  1.  Samuel,  son  of  William,  of  C^ambridge,  b.  1644. 
July  21.  He  bought  Thomas  Hubbard's  grant,  after  his  death,  1662,  Nov.  9. 
The  house-lot  Avas  west  of  Long  street,  and  north  of  Patterson's,  or  near 
the  Pillsbury  place.  He  was  town-clerk;  Selectman;  Representative, 
1695-6,  and  a  useful  citizen.  He  m.  1664,  April  13,  Elizabeth  Stearns,  sister 
of  John,  1.  She  d.  1671,  June  24,  and  he  m.  1673,  May  6,  Abiall  Wight,  of 
Medfleld.  Ensign  Manning  d.  1710-1,  Feb  22.  Ch.  Samuel.  2.  John,  3- 
b.  1666,  Aug.  30.  Timothy,  b.  1673-4,  Feb.  4;  d.  March  12.  Hannah, 
b.  1675,  March  28;  m.  1699,  Dec.  7,  Ebenezer  King,  of  Watertown. 
William,  4,  b.  1677,  June  27.  Mary,  b.  1679.  Sept.  12 ;  
m.  Josiah  Crosby,  5, 
Sarah,  b.  1681,  Aug.  26;  in.  Samuel  Robinson,  of  Cambridge.  Her  son, 
Samuel,  b.  1707,  April  4,  lived  in  H^rdwick,  Mass.  ;  was  Captain  in  the 
French  war.  and  became  one  of  the  pioneers  in  settlement  of  Bennington, 
the  first  town  chartered  on  the  New  Hampshire  gi-ants,  which  became 
Vermont.  He  d.  of  small-pox  in  1767,  in  London,  whei-e  he  was  agent  of  the 
settlers  in  defense  of  their  rights  against  New  York  claims.  Of  his  sons, 
Moses  Robinson  became  Chief  Justice,  Senator  and  Governor  of  Vermont. 
Jonathan,  also  Chief  Justice  and  Senator.  Samuel  was  Captain  in  the 
battle  of  Bennington,  and  afterwards.  Colonel  of  militia.  Dorothy,  b.  1683, 
June  27.  Isaac,  b.  1685,  April  15.  Ephraim,  5,  b.  1686,  Sept.  11.  Elizabeth 
b.  1689-90,  March  14;  m.  Peter  Fassett,  2.  Timothy,  b.  1691-2,  March  4. 
Eliphalet.  6,  b.  1693,  July  28.     Abial,  b.  1698,  Dec.  16. 
2.  Samuel,  son  of  Samuel,  1,  m.  Deborah    .  He  removed  to  Cam- 
bridge about  1694,  and  before  1724,  to  Windham,  Conn,  where  he  was 
living,  1744,  Oct.  29,  {Paige).  Ch.  Dorothy,  b.  1688-9,  Jan.  17.  Samuel, 
b.  1690-1, -fJan.  14.       Sarah,  b.  1693,  Oct.  1.       Edward.      John.      Abigail, 
m.  Jabez  Carter.      Elizabeth  m.     Bingham.      3Iary  m.     Case,  and 
Joseph,  who  d.  in  Woburn,  1745.  He  was  a  physician,  and  grad.  H.  C, 
prob.  1730. 
3.  John,  son  of  Samuel,  1,  b.  1666.  Aug.  30;  m.  Sarah    .    After 
1695,  he  removed  to  Cambridge  and  d.  there,  1718-9.  Feb.  23.  Ch.  John, 
b.  1695-6,  Feb.  29.  Edward.  William.  Samuel.  Benjamin.  7,  b.  1704-5, 
March  10.     Sarah. 
4.  William,  son  of  Samuel,  1,  b.  1677,  June  27;  m.  Elizabeth  French, 
dau.  of  Jacob,  3.  She  d.  1736,  Sept.  19,  and  he  m.  1737,  April  19,  Mary 
Shed,  dau.  or  widow  of  Nathan.  6.  Ensign  Manning  d.  1764,  March  2o, 
Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1701-2,  March  4;  m.  1728,  Oct.  21,  Samuel  Manning. 
Esther,  h.  1703,  Aug.  5;  m.  Joseph  Baldwin,  (see  4).  3Iary.  b.  1705, 
Dec.  21.  William.  8,  b.  1707-8,  Feb.  28.  Jacob.  9,  b.  1710,  March  27. 
Sarah,  b.  1711-2.  Feb.  8;  m.  Jonathan  Danforth,  9.  Bachel,  b.  1714-5, 
Feb.  17;  m.  Abraham  Durrent,  5.  Martha,  b.  1718,  July  26.  Hannah, 
b.  1719-20,  March  1 ;  d.  1723.  Aug.  15. 
 - 479 - 
94  MANNING. 
5.  Ephraiin,  son  of  Sanuiel,  1,  b.  1()86,  Sept,  11;  m,  1710.  Maiy 
Tompson,  dan.  of  Joseph,  1.  Ch.  Joseph.,  b.  1710-1,  Feb.  9;  d.  1712, 
Sept.  28.  Manj,  b.  1712-3,  March  4.  Joseph,  b.  1715.  July  24;  d.  1716, 
Dec.  21.  Ahi(jaiU  b.  1717-8,  Jan.  5.  Bette.  b.  1720,  Aug.  2;  m.  Thomas 
Stearns,  11.  ' Sarah,  b.  1723,  March  27.  Samuel,  b.  1725-0,  March  19; 
d.  1727,  May  10. 
6.  Eliphalet,  son  of  Samuel,  1,  b.  1693.  July  28;  m.  IJebccca    . 
Ch.  Eliphalet.  b.  1713,  Sept.  26;  m.  Hannah    ,  and  lived  in  Tewksbury, 
where  he  d.  1806,  Jan.  20;  had  ch.  Elizabeth;  liebecca;  Sanmel;  Isaac  and 
Eliphalet.     RehecA-a.  \).  1715,  Oct.     Thomas.  10,  b.  1718,  June  11. 
7.  Bonjiliiiiii,  son  of  John.  3,  b.  1704-5.  March  10;  m.  1729-30, 
Jan.  16,  ]Mary  French,  dau.  of  William.  7.  Ch.  Benjamin,  h.  1730,  Oct.  23; 
d.  1756,  Oct."  John.  b.  1732,  July  5;  d.  1757,  June  11.  Ebenezer.  b.  1733-4, 
Jan.  13;  d.  Jan.  25.  Abner.  b.  1735,  May  2;  d.  1756,  Aug.  17.  Joseph, 
b.  1736-7,  Jan.  8.  Noah.  b.  1738,  Sept.  1 ;  
d.  1754,  July  21.  Sarah,  b.  1740, 
Sept.  4.  Isaac,  b.  1742,  DeC.  26;  m.  1772.  June  18,  Esther  Crosby,  dau.  of 
Josiah,  14.  Samuel,  b.  1744-5.  Jan.  11;  d.  1772,  March  1.  Mary,  b.  1748. 
March  6;  m.  1776,  Feb.  15,  Oliver  Proctor,  of  Townsend.  Hannah,  b.  1750, 
Sept.  2. 
8.  William,  son  of  William,  4,  b.  1707-8,  Feb.  28;  m.  1742.  Nov.  10, 
Elizabeth  Danforth.  dau.  of  Jonathan,  5.  He  was  connnissioned  by  Gov. 
Shirlej^  ■•Lieut,  of  the  W'est  foot  Company,  of  Billerica,  Capt.  Kalph 
Hill,  in  the  2d  Eeghnent  of  Militia,  Eliazer  Tyng,  colonel,"  1754,  Sept.  4. 
Lieut.  Manning  d.  1776,  Aug.  11;  his  Midow  d.  1790,  March  23. 
Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1745,  July  12;  m.  Solomon  Carlton,  3.  William.  11, 
b.  1747,  May  21.  Jonathan,  b.  1749,  July  16;  d.  Jonathan,  bap.  1751, 
Sept.  15;  m.  1774.  March  17,  Martha  Howard,  of  Chelmsford.  Timothy, 
b.  1751,  Sept.  17;  m.  1776,  June  13,  Mary  Howard.  Solomon,  12,  b.  1753, 
May  15. 
9.  Jacob,  son  of  William,  4,  b.  1710,  March  27;  m.  1736-7.  Jan.  20, 
Martha  Beard,  dau.  of  Andrew,  1.  He  d.  1762,  Sept.  5.  She  d.  1798, 
Feb.  10.  Ch.  Jacob,  13,  b.  1739,  Nov.  8.  JMary.  b.  1741,  Nov.  15.  Isaac, 
b.  1743,  Nov.  8 ;  m.  1789,  Nov.  3,  Sarah  Totman,  prob.  widow  of  John. 
Jesse,  14,  b.  1745,  Aug.  18.  Thomas,  b.  1747,  July  27.  David,  b.  1749, 
Dec.  2;  d.  Feb.  4.  3Iartha,  b.  1750-1.  Jan.  21 ;  
d.  1762,  Sept.  14.  David, 
b.  1753,  May  20 ;  
d.  1762,  Sept.  13.  Esther,  b.  1756,  April  3 ;  
d.  1762, 
Sept.  16. 
10.  Thomas,  son  of  Eliphalet,  6,  b.  1718.  June  11;  m.  1737,  Aug.  30, 
Hannah  Twist.  He  lived  in  Tewksbury.  Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1738,  Sept.  2; 
d.  1749,  Aug.  24.  Hannah,  b.  1740,  Dec.  21;  d.  1749,  Aug.  10.  Mary, 
b.  1744,  Feb.  20.     Thomas,  b.  1750,  Nov. 
11.  William,  son  of  AVilliam,  8,  b.  1747,  May  21 ;  m.  1769,  March  21, 
Sarah  Heywood,  of  Burlington.  He  was  commissioned  2d  Lieut,  in  Capt. 
Kidder's  company,  7th  Regt.,  1776,  May  31.  He  d.  1814,  Oct.  21.  She 
d.  1838.  July  12,  aged  91.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1769,  Sept.  2;  d.  184(4  May  25. 
William,  b.  1770,  Nov.  22;  d.  1852,  March  15.  Jephthah.  b.  1772,  May  17; 
d.  1834,  July  26.  Lucretia.  b.  1774.  May  17;  d.  1777,  Aug.  29.  Areihusa, 
b.  1775,  Nov.  28 ;  
m.  William  Pollard,  11.  Theophilus.  15,  b.  1777,  June  28. 
Loammi,  b.  1779,  Aug.  26;  d.  1792.  March  22.  Lucretia,  b.  1781,  Aug.  24; 
d.  1838,  Jan.  23.  Serviah,  b.  1783,  Oct.  30;  m.  John  Parkhurst,  of 
Chelmsford;  had  12  ch.  ;  
d.  1873,  Julv  3.  Luna,  b.  1785,  Oct.  21;  d.  1825, 
Dec.  9.  lioxa.  h.  1787,  Aug.  6;  d.  ^1821,  March  9.  Lucinda.  b.  1790, 
Jan.    22;  living  in  Chelmsford.     Jerusha,  b.  1791,  Sept.  9;  d.  1857,  Oct.  11. 
12.  Solomon,  son  of  William.  8,  b.  1753,  May  15;  m.  1777,  May  20, 
Alice  Wilson,  dau.  of  John,  6.      Shed.  1787,  April  26;  he  m.  Olive    . 
Ch.  Solomon,  b.  1789,  Dec.  26.     Olive,  b.  1792.  March  16. 
13.  Jacob,  son  of  Jacob,  9,  b.  1739,  Nov.  8;  m.  1763,  June  2,  Sarah 
Butterlield,  of  Chelmsford.  He  d.  in  Lyndeboro,  N.  H.,  1810,  Nov.  8;  she 
d.  1831,  Jan.  21,  aged  89.  Ch.  Martha,  b.  1766,  Jan.  14;  m.  Alpheus 
Hill.  23.     Esther,  b.  1767,  Dec.  20;  m.  Amos  Carleton,  7.     Jacob,  b.  1771, 
 - 480 - 
MANNING— MARSHALL.  95 
Dec.   16;  m.   1790,   April  26.   Lucy  Andrews,  of  Carlisle.     He  d.  in  ]^ew 
Hampshire,  1812,  and  his  widow  m.      Fisher,  of  Francestown.     Of  his 
ch..  Jacob  lived  in  Greenwood.  IST.  Y.,  and  was  father  of  Rev.  Jacob  M. 
Manning.  D.  D.,  pastor  of  the  Old  South  Church  in  Boston,  and  Solomon, 
h.  1799  ;"d.  in  Bedford,  N.  H.,  1862;  was  father  of  Jacob  M.,  of  Reading. 
Asa,  16,  b.  1780.  Sept.  23. 
14.  Jesse,  son  of  Jacob,  9,  b.  1745,  Aug.  18;  m.  1766,  Dec.  2.  Anne 
Carleton.  dau.  of  John.  1.  She  d.  1779,  Jan.  28,  and  he  ni.  1779,  Dec.  30, 
Elizabeth  Abbot,  of  Andover.  Ch.  3Iarij.  b.  1768,  Nov.  22;  d.  1822,  Oct.  6. 
DavkL  b.  1771,  June  8.  Elizabeth,  b.  1773,  May  20.  Jesse,  17,  b.  1776, 
July  12.     JuUa.  b.  1778,  Dec.  12;  m.  Daniel  L.  Knapp. 
15.  Theophilus,  son  of  William,  11,  b.  1777,  June  28;  m.  1807, 
March  29.  Hannah  Patten,  dau.  of  Asa.  13.  She  d.  1813,  Oct.  9.  and  he  ni. 
1817,  Sept.  28,  Polly,  her  sister.  He  d.  1868.  June  30,  and  his  widow,  1871, 
Aug.  21.  Ch.  Hannah  Patten,  b.  1808,  Jan.  12;  m.  1827,  Oct.  9.  John 
Chandler,  jr.,  of  Tewksbury.  Sarah  Hayioood,  b.  in  Harvard.  1809,  Feb.  6; 
m.  Ambrose  F.  Page,,  8.  Polly,  b.  1811,  March  8;  d.  1871,  Feb.  22. 
Theophihis.  18,  b.  1821,  April  11.  William,  b.  1823,  Oct.  29;  m.  1846, 
April  16,  Mary  Ann  Baldwin,  dau.  of  Joel,  23,  and  lives  in  Chelmsford. 
His  business  has  been  in  Lowell,  whei-e  he  was  a  pioneer  in  the  extensive 
and  profitable  pop  corn  trade.  His  dau.  Charlotte  Ann.  b.  1847,  Feb.  19 ; 
m.  1874,  Oct.  9,  Erastus  A.  Bartlett.     Asa  Patten,  b.  1825,  Oct.  26. 
16.  Asa,  son  of  Jacob,  13,  b.  1780,  Sept.  23;  m.  1803,  July  7,  Ohve 
Spalding,  dau.  of  Zebulon,  of  Westford.  She  d.  in  Lyndeboro,  N".  H., 
1844,  Nov.  24,  aged  64;  he  d.  1853.  Jan.  2.  Ch.  Olive,  b.  1805,  June  3; 
d.  1812.  Feb.  10.  In  Lyndeboro,  Sarah,  b.  1807,  July  11 ;  d.  1812,  Feb.  13. 
Asa  and  Sherebiah.  b.  1809,  July  12;  the  latter  d.  and  Asa  went  west. 
Olive,  b.  1812,  March  2.  Sherebiah.  b.  1817,  Jan.  3;  lives  in  New  Boston, 
X.  H.  Joseph,  h.  ISld.  Jul j' 19;  lives  in  Owasso.  Michigan.  Lydia  W., 
b.  1821,  June  10;  ra.  Ephraim  W.  AVoodward.  of  White  Oak,  Michigan. 
Sarah  Jane,  b.  1822.  Nov.  4;  m.  John  H.  Whitney,  of  Ludlow,  Vt. 
17.  Jesse,   son  of  Jesse,    14,   b.   1776,   July  12;  m.  Mary    ,  and 
1802,  Dec.  30,  Abigail  Baldwin,  dau.  of  Thomas.  l3,  who  d.  182o,  Sept.  29. 
Ch.  Jesse,  19,  b.  1797,  Aug.  21. 
18.  Theophilus,  son  of  Theophilus.  15,  b.  1821,  April  21 ;  
m.  Hannah 
  .     Ch.  Walter  Theophilus.  b.  1847,  Nov.  22. 
19.  Jesse,  son  of  Jesse,  17,  b.  1797,  Aug.  21;  m.  Mary    .     She  d. 
1837,  July  22,  and  he  m.  Eleanor.  Ch.  Albert,  h.  1820,  Dec.  20.  Augustine, 
b.  1822.  '  
April  24 ;  
d.  1825.  Sept.  12.  Martha,  b.  1824,  May  26 ;  
Sept.  18.  Henry,  b.  1826,  Sept.  2.  Thomas,  b.  1828,  April  10.    d.  1825, 
Augusta, 
b.  18,30.  Aug.  18.  Mary,  b.  1832.  Feb.  26.  Asa,  b.  1836.  Dec.  1.  Olando, 
b.  1840,  Oct.  2.  Elenor,  b.  1841,  Dec.  13.  Martha,  b.  1846,  July  5. 
Caroline  Fail.  b.  1847,  Oct.  16. 
MANSFIELD,  John,  and  Av^fe  Eachel.  Ch.  Mary,  b.  1725,  Nov.  1.  His 
name  is  on  tax-list  until  1758. 
MA.RSHALL.  1.  John,  was  granted  a  six  acre  lot,  1656-7.  Feb.  4. 
We  know  not  Avhence  he  came,  or  whose  son  he  was.  His  age,  at  death, 
given  by  grave-stone,  fixes  his  birth  in  1632  ;  much  more  probal)le  than  the 
statement  of  a  deposition  in  the  Mass.  Ai'chives.  which  makes  him  15  years 
older.  His  first  allotment  was  20  acres,  "  lying  partly  on  the  township  and 
partly  on  the  comons  ;  
bounded  by  John  Sheldon,  noi-th  ;  
by  the  comons, 
east  ;  
by  Peter  Bracket,  south;  by  Mr.  Whiting  and  William  Pattin,  west; 
and  a  parcel  of  land  reserved  for  ye  ministry,  on  y<^  -vA'cst.  and  partly  on  y« 
south,  and  partly  bj^  East  street  on  the  south-west.""  The  last  bound  is  a 
reminiscence  of  tlie  ancient  Andover  road,  befoi*e  it  was  changed  in  1660,  to 
its  present  place,  and  the  location  is  east  of  the  narrow  gauge  railroad  line, 
as  it  runs  soutli  from  the  street.  When  the  ryad  was  altered,  he  was 
allowed  a  private  way  across  Sheldon's  land,  to  reach  it.  He  had  later 
grants  farther  east,  by  
Iocs"  plain,  and  sold  his  first  grant,  above-described, 
to  Dr.  Samuel  Frost,    1.     The  road  running  east,  across  loes'  plain,  was 
 - 481 - 
96  MARSHALL. 
early  known  as  'Marshall's  lane,'  and  the  old  house,  in  which  the  family- 
long  lived,  is  still  standing  on  the  east  road,  near  the  turning  of  this  ••  
lane/ 
He  ni.  1662,  Nov.  19,  Hannah  Atkinson,  prob.  dau.  of  Thomas,  of  Concoi-d, 
and  b.  1644,  March  5.  She  d.  1665.  Hept.  7.  and  he  m.  1665,  Nov.  27,  Mary 
Burrage,  dau.  of  John,  of  Charlestown,  whose  sister,  Hannah,  had  ni. 
John  French.  1.  She  d.  1680.  Oct.  30,  aged  39,  and  he  m.  1681,  Nov.  30, 
Daniaris  Waite.  widow,  of  Maiden.  Sergt.  John  Marshall  d.  1702.  Nov.  5, 
aged  70,  and  his  widow  ni.  1703.  July  14,  Lieut.  Thomas  .Johnson,  of 
Andover.  Ch.  Johiu  b.  1667.  June  7;  "d.  July  7.  Man/,  b.  1668.  Oct.  2; 
d.  1669,  July  17.  Johana,  b.  1670.  April  1 ;  m.  Peter  Conieal,  1.  John,  2, 
b.  1671.  Aug.  1.  Mary.  b.  1672,  Oct.  14;  d.  1673.  Oct.  IS.  Hannah,  b.  1673-4, 
Feb.  18 ;  
d.  June  21.  Thomas,  b.  (and  bap.  at  Charlestown.)  1675.  Nov.  10; 
d.  Nov.  20.  Isaac,  b.  1677-8,  Jan.  31 ;  
d.  April  28.  Mehittabel,  b.  1680, 
Aug.  13  ;  d.  in  Aug. 
2.  John,  son  of  John.  1,  b.  1671,  Aug.  2;  m.  1695-6.  Dec.  8,  Unis 
Rogers,  dau.  of  John.  2.  He  d.  1713-4,  Jan.  25.  Ch.  Mary,  b.  1696, 
Oct.  28;  m.  1734,  June  27,  Nathan  Cross,  of  Nottingham.  John,  3, 
b.  1698-9,  Jan.  19.  Daniel,  b.  1701,  May  13.  IJnise,  b.  1703.  Oct.  16. 
Thomas,  4,  b.  1706.  March  28.  Samuel,  b.  1708,  June  23.  William,  5, 
b.  1710.  July  28.     Isaac,  6,  b.  1712.  Dec.  18. 
3.  Jolin,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  1698-9.  Jan.  19;  m.  1722.  Aug.  15, 
Abigail  Parker,  dau.  of  Benjamin,  6.  He  Avas  also  sergeant.  He  d.  in 
Tewksbury,  1762.  Oct.  6.  Cli.  John,-b.  1723.  July  28;  d.  Aug.  14.  John, 
b.  1724,  Aug.  14.  Daniel,  b.  1726,  Aug.  29.  Abigail,  h.  1730,  May  2i; 
d.  Oct.  22.     David,  b.  1732-3,  March  11 ;  d.  April  11. 
4.  Thomas,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1706,  March  28;  m.  Ruth    .     She 
d.  1741,  July  5,  and  he  m.  Mary    .  who  d.  1770,  July  7.  and  he  m.  Phebe 
Phelps,  widow  of  Francis,  of  Pepperell.  She  d.  1779,  Jan.  15.  He  lived 
in  Tewksbury.  and  d.  1778,  Sept.  8.  Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1729,  Nov.  23. 
Samuel,  b.  1732,  May  10;  prob.  m.  1755.  Jan.  2,  Esther  Frost,  dau.  of 
William.  10.  Joseph,  b.  1734.  April  3.  John,  b.  1735,  July  15.  Abel, 
b.  1736,  Dec.  3;  d.  1753.  Oct.  28.  Jonas,  b.  1738,  Feb.  14.  Buth,  b.  1739, 
May  8;  d.  1772,  Aug.  6.  Joel,  b.  1744,  May  24.  Silas,  b.  1745,  Feb.  20. 
Bufus,  b.  1747,  Nov.  2;  d.  1749,  Dec.  15.  Mary,  b.  1750,  May  23,  Daniel, 
b.  1752,  Nov.  9.  William,  b.  1757,  May  20.  Hannah,  b.  1759.  Nov.  29 ; 
d.  1760,  Aug.  14.     Hannah,  b.  1761,  July  31.     Abel,  who  d,  1764,  June  3. 
5.  William,    son  of   John,  2,  b.  1710.  July  28;    m.  Ehzabeth    . 
His  name  disappears  from  tax-list,  1736.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1733,  Aug.  24. 
William,   b.   1735,   Oct.   9. 
6.  Isaac,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1712.  Dec.  18;  m.  1735-6,  Feb.  10.  Phebe 
Richardson,  dau.  of  Andrew,  4.  She  d.  1745.  June  9,  and  he  m.  1746, 
Feb.  17.  Rebecca  Hill,  dau.  of  Samuel,  6.  She  d.  1789.  Dec.  13.  and  he  d. 
1797,  March  3.  Ch.  Isaac,  7,  b.  1736-7,  Jan.  31.  Phebe,  b.  1738-9,  Jan.  12 ; 
m.  Benjamin  Jaquith,  4.  Samuel,  b.  1742,  Oct.  2;  m.  1794,  Nov.  13, 
Rebecca  French,  dau.  of  Ebenezer.  22.  John,  b.  1745,  May  3 ;  
d.  May  5. 
Jacob,  8,  b.  1748,  April  1.     Prob.  Bebecca,  who  m.  Benjamin  Dows,  6. 
7.  Isaac,  son  of  Isaac,  6,  b.  1736-7,  Jan.  31;  m.  1762,  Jan.  6,  Abigail 
Bi'own,  dau.  of  Samuel.  7.  Lieut.  Marshall  d.  1813.  May  14.  Ch.  Isaac, 
b.  1762,  Dec.  8;  d.  April  8.  Abigail,  b.  1764.  Jan.  31 ;  m.  Hezekiah  Kendall. 
Bebecca,  b.  1767,  March  2;  m.  William  French,  (see  20).  Isaac,  10, 
b.  1768,  June  17.  Josiah.  b.  1773,  Jan.  17.  Hannah,  b.  1774,  Oct.  24; 
m.  Oliver  Whiting,  (see  8  and  9).  Allice,  b.  1780,  May  26 ;  
m.  1810,  April  22, 
William  Hvde. 
8.  Jacob,  son  of  Isaac,  6.  b.  1748,  April  1 ;  m.  1771,  Nov.  21,  Molly 
Richardson,  dau.  of  Samuel,  10.  Ch.  3Iolly,  b.  1772,  Sept.  30;  d.  1777, 
Sept.  20.  Jacob,  b.  1773,  Sept.  14;  d.  1777,  Oct.  19.  Ira,  b.  1775,  Sept.  25; 
d.  1777,  Oct.  8.     Timothy,  b.  1777,  Feb.  16. 
9.  Jolin.  Birth  not  on  record.  He  m.  Frances,  (perhaps  Tyng). 
Ch.  Francis  Tyng,  b.  1787,  June  21. 
 - 482 - 
MAESH  ALL— MILLER.  97 
10,  Isaac,  son  of  Isaac.  7,  b.  1768,  June  17;  m.  1793,  July  1,  Hannah 
Jaquith,  dau.  of  Ebenezer,  3.  Ch.  Gyrus,  b.  1794,  Feb.  11;  d.  1796, 
April  11.  Hannah,  b.  1795,  Oct.  13;  d.  1845,  July  23.  Sophronia,  b.  1797, 
July  7.  Cyrus,  b.  1799,  June  15.  Isaac,  b.  1801,  Dec.  19.  Albert,  b.  1804 
Aprir23.  Eliza,  b.  1806,  April  14;  d.  1808,  April  19.  Erie,  (?)  b.  1808, 
July  15 ;  
d.  July  17.  Eliza  Ann,  b.  1809.  May  25.  Martha,  b.  1812. 
Dec.   25.     Nathaniel,   b.   1814,   Jan.  15;  d.  1831,  March  11. 
MARSTON,  Amos,  ni.  1844,  Nov.  25,  Abigail  J.  Danforth,  dau.  of 
Aaron,  28.  Ch.  Hannah  3Iaria,  b.  1845,  Jan.  4.  Larkin  Jeferson,  b.  1847, 
Dec.  3.     William  Henry,  b.  1849,  Oct.  24.     John  B.,  b.  1851.  Aug.  6. 
MARTIN,  Asa,  on  tax-list,  1760. 
MASON,  Augustus,  m.  d.,  son  of  William,  of  Waltham.  b.  1822;  grad. 
B.  U.,  1841,  and  Harvard  ISIedical  College,  1844;  practised  his  profession  in 
town,  until  1854  ;  
now  lives  in  Brighton  District.  Boston.  He  m.  1850,  Dec.  6, 
Sarah  B.  Kogers.  dau.  of  Josiah,  20,  Ch.  William  E.,  b.  1851,  Sept.  16; 
d.  1856.  Oct.  14.  Edward  Aucnistus,  b.  1853.  Nov.  26 ;  
d.  1857.  June  29. 
Kittie  Bogers,  b.  1859,'   Oct.  9;  d.  1861.  Nov.  24.  Marii  Rebecca,  h.lSQl, 
Aug.  12.  Lizzie  Bogers.  h,  1863,  Dec.  28;  d.  1864,  May  21.  Kittie  Bogers, 
b.  1867.  Feb.  27;  d.  Sept.  30. 
MAXWELL,  Thomas,  m.  1837.  Nov.  5,  Lucy  Hardy,  from  Andover. 
Ch.  Thomas  Henry,  b.  1838.  June  25.  James  Edward,  h.  1839,  Aug.  5. 
Sophia,  b.  1844,  April  14.     Isabella,  b.  1851,  Sept.  8. 
McCOY.     1.     William,  of  Pelham,  m.  1751,  Nov.  19,  Mary  Forgison. 
2.     James,  of  Tewksbury.  m.  1768,  Jan.  5,  Jane  McDowell. 
McDOWEL,  William,  aiid  wife  Jane.  He  is  on  tax-list.  1737-61  ;  the 
Jane  above,  who  m.  James  McCoy,  was  prob.  his  widow.  Ch.  Margaret, 
b.  1748,  Sept.  11.     Elizabeth,  b.  1750-1.  Feb.  6. 
McFARLAND,  Andrew,  m.  1725.  Dec.  8,  Margaret  Christe. 
MEADES,  David,  [Mead.]  bought  in  1680,  the  lot  of  Christopher 
Web,  but  did  not  long  remain.  He  m.  1675,  Sept.  26,  Hannah  Warren. 
Ch.  Hannah,  b.  in  Cambridge,  1676.  Sept.  17;  m.  in  Watertown,  Ebenezer 
Locke.  David,  b.  1677  or  78;  d.  in  Walthaui,  1768.  Hopestill.b.  1680-1, 
Feb.  4;  m.  Elizabeth  Hastings,  and  lived  in  Lexington.  John,  b.  1685. 
Sarah,  b.  1688.     Susannah,  b.  1690. 
MEERS,  [Mears].  1.  Robert,  prob.  son  of  Robert,  of  Boston;  m.  1726, 
April  21,  Hannah  Frost,  dau.  of  Samuel.  7,  Ch.  Abigail,  b.  1726-7,  Jan.  17. 
Hannah,  b.  1728.  April  21.  Mehittabel,  b.  1729.  Dec.  11.  Mary,  b.  1731, 
July  24.  Boger,  b.  1732-3,  March  10.  Bette,  b.  1734-5,  March  13.  Samuel, 
b.  1*736,  Aug.  18.    Thomas,  2, 
2,  Tliomas,   prob.    son   of  Robert,    1,   m.  Lydia    .      He  d.  1807, 
Feb.  17,  aged  68,  and  she  d.  1829.  April  3,  aged  93.  Ch.  Lydia,  who 
m.  1786,  Sept.  10,  Joshua  Thistle,  of  Dracut.  Nancy  m.  1804,  Nov.  29, 
Daniel  Wood.     Nathan.  4,  b.  1775,  April  12.     Isaac. 
3.  Micajah  m.  Hannah    .     Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1802,  Nov.  3. 
4r.  Nathan,  son  of  Thomas,  2,  b.  1775,  April  12 ;  m.  Lucy  Levistone, 
dau.  of  Nathaniel,  6.  He  lived  at  the  corner  ;  
d.  1828,  June  10,  and  his 
wife,  1827,  Jan.  28,  aged  39.  Ch.  Edwin,  b.  1812.  July  18.  Charles,  b.  1814, 
March  16;  a  merchant  in  Chicago.  Nathan,  b.  1815,  Dec.  30;  lives  in 
Chicago.  Lucy  Ann,  b.  1818,  May  2;  m.  John  Baldwin,  24.  Albert,  b.  1821, 
Sept.  13. 
5,  Dexter  and  Avife  Sarah.  Ch.  Susan  Maria,  b.  1847,  Dec.  28. 
Charles  Henry,  b.  1849.  Nov.  5. 
6.  William  D.,  son  of  Daniel,  m.  1844,  Nov.  17,  Sarah  J.  Brown,  dau. 
of  Elisha.  15, 
MERIAM,  Jonas,  jr.,  and  wife  Sophronia.  Ch.  Harriet  Bennett., 
"b.  in  Boston,  1834,  Aug.  27.  George,  b.  1835,  Oct.  24.  Mnry  Elizabeth, 
b.  1839,  Aug.  23.     Caroline  Augusta,  b.  1844,  March  13;  d.  1845.  Oct.  12. 
MILLER.  1.  John,  of  Charlestown,  m.  1761,  April  16.  Hannah  Hill, 
dau.  of  Ralph,  11,  Ch.,  prob.  Hannah,  who  m.  1790.  April  15,  John 
Brown,    (see   12).      John,   b.   1765,   Aug.  18;  m.  1790,  Dec.  29,  Hannah 
 - 483 - 
98  MILLER— MUN  ROE. 
Thistle.  Stephen,  bap.  1770,  Sept.  30;  prob.  father  of  Stephen,  8.  Joshua, 
bap.  1772.  Sept.  0.     Naovii,  bap.  1775,  Sept.  15. 
2.  Job,  of  Charlestown,  m.  1776,  Feb.  27,  Sarah  Gold,  of  Woburn. 
3.  Stephen  in.  1818,  Aug  16,  Abigail  Russell,  dau.  of  John,  3. 
Ch.  Abigail  Harriet,  b.  1818,  Dec.  6.  iSarah  Elizabeth,  b.  1821,  Feb.  24. 
Stephen  Clark,  b.  182;5,  Feb.  7.  Lucy  Ann,  h.  1825,  March  8.  Mary  Maria, 
b.  1827,  May  6.  John  liussell.  b.  1831,  Feb.  11.  Beuben  Bradley,  b.  1835, 
June  25.     George  H(oiry.  b.  1837,  Nov.  8.      Bhodn  Caroline,  b.  1814,  Jan.  22. 
4.  John  and  wife  Margaret.     Ch.  John.  b.  1846,  Sept.  27. 
5.  Mary,  wife  of  William,  d.  1754,  June  28,  aged  35. 
MILLS.  1.  Philip  m.  1803,  Aug.  7,  Lucy  Eichardson.  dau.  of 
Oliver,  22.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1806,  April  19;  m.  1826,  July  4,  Oliver  Carter, 
of  Tewksbury.  Lucy  Ann,  b.  1808,  March  21.  John  Bichardson,  2,  b.  1811, 
Aug.  16.  3iari/.  b.  "lS13,  April  15 ;  
Jan.  24;  ni.  1840,  Feb.  19,  James  L.    d.  1814,  March  12.  Hannah,  b.  1815, 
Mason,  of  Concord,  N.  H. 
2.     John    R.,    son    of    Philip,!,   b.  1811.  Aug.  16;  m.  Emeline    . 
Ch.  John  Bichardson.  b.  1840,  Jan.  26.  Emeline  Parsons,  b.  1843,  Jan.  31. 
George  N.,  b.  1853,  April  30. 
MIXER,  John,  m.  Nancy  Dix.  Ch.  John  d.  1857,  Sept.  20,  aged  47. 
L'ene.  h.  in  Tyngsboro,  1812,  Feb.  16.  3Iary  Ann.  b.  1815,  Sept.  18; 
m.  1834,  Aug.  28,  Sullivan  Colson;  d.  1842.  Oct.  25.  Charles,  b.  1818, 
Feb.  5.  Lavina  H,  b.  1819.  June  22;  m.  1837,  Nov.  5,  David  AV.  Brown; 
d.  1842,  Mav  6.  Nancy  Maria,  b.  1821,  April  5;  d.  1840,  Feb.  9.  Eadith 
Adams,  b.  1823,  March  29. 
MORE.  [Moore].  1.  Golden,  from  Cambridge,  purchased  the  orig- 
inal right  of  James  Parker,  and  was  in  Billerica  in  1658.  His  house-lot 
contained  fourteen  acres,  "  lying  upon  the  Township,  bounded  by  east  street, 
south;  Ralph  Hill,  jr.,  east,  and  long  street,  west;  Jonathan  Danforth's 
paster,  and  his  owne,  north.  Upon  this  land  was  his  dwelling-house  set." 
He  soon  had  nine  acres  more  '"joyneing  to  the  former  grant,  and  bounded 
by  it  on  the  south,  and  partly  \>y  Ralph  Hill,  jr. ;  
bounded  by  Jonathan 
Danforth  and  John  Baldwm,  on  y«  west;  by  Ralph  Hill,  jr.,  east;  bj^  the 
towne  comons  on  the  north."  In  1661,  this  record  is  made:  ''Whereas 
the  east  street  was  changed  bj^  laying  out  y<=  country  road  to  anflever,  and 
laid  crosse  y*  middle  of  the  house-lot  of  golden  more,  for  i-ecompense  of 
damage  done  to  him  thereby,  the  committee  impowered  in  that  worke 
did  grant  to  him  all  that  part  of  y^  former  highway  from  long  street,  until 
you  come  to  y«  siller  forge  of  John  Shildon;  and  y<=  said  golden  declared 
himselfe  fully  satistied.'"  His  place  occupied  both  sides  of  Andover  street, 
on  Long  street,  and  his  house,  doubtless,  stood  near  Mr.  Samuel  Baldwin's. 
He  m.  Joanna  Champney,  widow  of  John,  who  d.  1675-6,  Feb.  18. 
He  d.  1698,  Sept.  3,  aged  about  89.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1643,  Sept.  15;  m.  John 
Hastings.     Lydia  m.  Caleb  Farley,  2.     Buth  m.  Daniel  Shed,  2. 
2.     John  and  Mary  Lane,  '"both  of  Bedford,"  m.  1799,  Nov.  21. 
MOREY,  Frederic  Albert,  son  of  Thomas,  was  b.  in  Tewksbury,  1846, 
Feb.  2;  m.  1870,  June  23,  Mary  C.  Parker,  dau.  of  Charles  H.,  25.  He  is 
a  merchant;  his  store,  south  of  the  1st  church.  His  twin  brother,  Francis 
G.,  has  recently  gone  into'  business  with  him.       Ch.  Bertha,  b.  1877,  Jan.  6. 
MORGAN.     [ 
See  Carrier] . 
MULLEN,  Arthur,  and  wife  Mary.  Ch.  James,  b.  1735,  Sept.  29. 
Mary.  b.  1737-8.  Feb.  14.  Nathaniel,  b.  1740,  June  22.  Sarah,  b.  1742, 
Aug.  19.  Susan)ia,b.  1746,  July  26.  Jane,  b.  1748,  Feb.  18.  Bridget, 
bap.  1751,  June  23. 
MUNROE.  1.  Joseph  appears  on  the  tax-list,  1734.  He  was  son  of 
William,  of  Lexington,  and  b.  1687,  Aug.  16.  The  record  of  his  11  ch.,  all 
b.  in  Lexington,  may  be  found  in  the  Histoiy  of  that  town,  p.  150.  He  lived 
in  the  west  part  of  the  town,  where  his  sons  Joseph,  Nathan.  2,  and  Joshua 
were  set  ott^to  Carlisle  in  1779.  He  disappears  from  tax-list  in  1760,  having 
prob.  returned  to  Lexington  ;  
d.  in  West  Cambridge,  aged  100.  [Lexington']  . 
 - 484 - 
NASON— NEEDHAM.  99 
2.  Nathan,  son  of  Joseph,  1,  b.  1716.  Sept.  7 ;  m.  1738,  Nov.  23,  Mercy 
Benjamin.  Ch.  Mercy,  b.  1740,  Oct.  16.  Nathaniel,  b.  1742.  Dee.  24.  Grace, 
b.  1745,  March  24.  Amos,  b.  1747,  May  31.  Jonathan,  b.  1749,  Aug.  16. 
Stephen,  b.  1751,  Aug.  3.  Solomon,  "b.  1753,  Sept.  13.  Aaron,  b.  1755, 
Sept.  14.     Nathan,  b.  1760,  May  31.     Isaiah,  b.  1763,  July  19. 
No  families  are  recorded  of  Joseph  and  Joshua  ;  
but  the  following  were 
prob.  daughters:  Margaret  m.  1765,  July  23,  Isaac  VVilkins.  Hepsibah 
m.  1773,  March  3,  Oliver  Wheeler,  of  Acton.  Abigail  m.  John  Henry.  Lydia 
m.  1777,  Feb.  13,  Samuel  Wheeler,  of  Acton.  Bette  m.  1779,  Dec.  9,  Joseph 
P.  Wheeler.  Hudson,  p.  154,  says  that  Joseph  had  six  ch.,  of  whom  Joseph 
was  a  physician  in  Hillsboro,  N.  H.  His  statement  that  Nathan  lived  in 
Conn,  seems  open  to  question. 
3.  Jonas  m.  1818,  Dec.  10,  Abigail  Kichardson. 
NASON,  Elias,  Rev.,  son  of  Levi  and  Sarah  (Newton,)  b.  in  Wrentham, 
1811,  April  21.  He  is  descended  from  Willoughby  Nason,  of  Boston,  1691, 
through  Thomas,  of  Walpole,  whose  son.  Thomas,  was  father  of  Levi. 
Some  of  Mr.  Nason's  early  years  were  spent  at  the  celebrated  Frankland 
place,  of  which  he  has  -written  a  history.  After  five  years  in  a  paper  mill 
at  Framingham.  he  fitted  for  college,  and  grad.  B.  U.,  1835.  Edited 
Augusta  Courier,  and  taught  Academy  at  Waynesboro,  Georgia,  until  1840. 
Principal  of  a  Ladies'  Institute,  Newburyport.  Mass.,  four  years  ;  then 
Master  of  the  English  High  School  and  of  the  Brown  High  school  thei'e. 
Principal.  Milford  High  School,  1849-52.  Ordained.  Natick,  1852,  May  5, 
pastor  of  the  Congregational  church;  dismissed.  18.58,  Nov.  1.  Installed 
over  Mystic  church,  Medford,  Nov.  10,  and  dismissed,  1860.  Nov.  19. 
Installed.  First  church,  Exeter,  N.  H.,  Nov.  22,  and  dismissed,  1865, 
Maj^  29.  He  then  came  to  North  Billerica,  and  has  resided  there  since, 
engaged  in  literary  work  and  lyceum  lecturing,  and  also  has  supplied 
chui'ches  in  Dracut,  Lowell  and  Danielsonville,  Conn.  The  publications 
of  Mr.  Nason  are  :  (1)  Songs  for  the  School-Room.  1842.  (2)  Lessons 
in  French  Literature,  1849.  (3)  Memoir  of  the  Rev.  Nathaniel  Howe,  1851. 
(4)  Congregational  Hymn  Book,  1857.  (5)  Vestry  Hymn  Book,  1857. 
(6)  Congregational  Tune  Book,  1858.  (7)  New  Congregational  Hymn  and 
Tune  Book,  1860.  (8)  Carmina  Coeli.  (9)  Songs  for  Social  and  Public 
Worship.  1862.  (10)  Eulogy  on  Abraham  Lincoln,  1865.  (11)  Eulogy  on 
Edward  Everett,  1865.  (12)  Eulogy  on  John  A.  Andrew.  1868.  (13)  Life 
of  Sir  Charles  Henry  Frankland,  1865.  (14)  Our  National  Song,  1869. 
(15)  Life  of  Mrs.  Susannah  Rowson,  1870.  (16)  Life  of  Henry  Wilson,  1872. 
(17)  Howe  family  Gathering,  1872.  (18)  Gazetteer  of  Massachusetts,  1873. 
(19)  Life  of  Charles  Sumner,  1874.  (20)  Lives  of  Moody  and  Sankey,  1877. 
(21)  History  of  Dunstable.  Mass.,  1877.  (22)  Memoir  of  W.  B.  Fowle.  1878. 
(23)  Histories  of  various  towns  in  the  Ilistories  of  Essex  and  Middlesex 
Counties.  1879.  (24)  Sketches  of  the  towns  and  cities  of  Worcester  County, 
1879. 
Mr.  Nason  has  also  published  several  Sermons  and  '•'  
Current  events"  in 
Exeter,  N.  H.,  1861-2-3.  and  is  now  preparing  a  Dictionary  of  the  noted 
men  and  women  of  Massachusetts.  He  has  edited  the  N.  E.  Historical  and 
Genealogical  Register,  and  is  a  member  of  many  literary  and  historical 
societies. 
He  m.  1836,  Nov.  28,  Mira  Ann.  dau.  of  John  and  Eliza  (FoUansbee) 
Bigelow,  of  Framingham.  Ch.  Paul  Ford,  b.  1838,  Feb.  19;  captain  in 
the  late  war.  James  Dwight,  b.  1840,  Nov.  2;  d.  1861,  April  4.  Charles 
Pinckney  Holbrook,  b.  1842,  Sept.  7;  grad.  W.  C,  1862;  ordained  pastor  of 
Central  church.  Chelsea,  1874,  June  24.  Emilif  Georgianna,  b.  1844, 
Nov.  30 ;  m.  Dr.  Charles  H.  Gerrish,  of  Exeter.  William  Walton,  b.  1848, 
Jan.  28;  grad.  Andover  Theo.  Sem..  special  course,  1877,  and  is  a  minister 
in  Chicago.     Florence  Nightinqale,  b.  1857.  March  12. 
NEEDHAM.  1.  John,  prob.  son  of  John,  of  Boston,  m.  1702-3, 
Feb.  26,  Mary  Jefts,  dau.  of  Henry,  3.  He  lived  south-west  of  the  village; 
d.   1742-3,   Feb.   24,   aged  68;  she  d.   1769,   Feb.    17.     Ch.  John,  b.  1705, 
 - 485 - 
100  NEEDHAM  —  NICKLES. 
Oct.  28;  d.  Dec.  22.  Blarn.  h.  1711-2,  Feb.  5;  m.  1729,  Oct.  30,  John 
Jaqiiith,  of  Wobuin.  William,  2,  b.  1713,  July  14.  John.  h.  1717-8, 
Jan.  2();  lived  in  Tewksbiiry  ;  ni.  1742,  Jan.  21,  Prudence  Steams,  dau.  of 
Samuel,  6.  She  d.  1781,  Dec.  29;  he  d.  1800,  Feb.  1.5.  They  had  ch.  John; 
Mary ;  Prudence  ;  Elizalx'th  ni.  Joseph  Jaquith,  6 ;  Stearns  ;  Abigail  ; 
Eachel;  Azubah.     Benjamin.  3,  b.  1720,  Oct.  2. 
2.  William,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1713.  July  14;  m.  1738-9,  Feb.  19, 
Mehittabel  Blanchard.  Ch.  MehiUabel,  b.  1739,  Dec.  3.  William,  b.  1741, 
Sept.  4;  d.  1758,  Sept.  27.  John,  4,  b.  1742-3,  March  22.  Mary,  b.  1744, 
Dec.  28.  Isaac,  b.  1746,  Oct.  16.  Hannah,  b.  1748,  Feb.  25.  NathanieA, 
b.  1751.  Jan.  31.  Amasa.  b.  1753,  Oct.  4;  d.  1756,  Nov.  3.  Asahel,  b.  1750, 
March  11.     Bhoda.  b.  1758.  April  11 ;  
d.  May  17. 
3.  Benjamin,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1720.  Oct.  2;  m.  1752,  Jan.  9, 
Rebecca  Jaquith.  duu.  of  Abraham,  1.  He  d.  1770,  Nov.  8;  she  d.  1787, 
March  1.  Ch.  Behecca,  b.  and  d.  1752,  Dec.  14.  Rebecca,  b.  1754,  Jan.  7; 
m.  Joseph  Shed,  20.  Benjamin.  5,  b.  1756,  April  5.  Sarah,  b.  1758. 
Feb.  7;  d.  March  26.  Hannah,  b.  1759,  Aug.  19;  m.  1786,  Fel).  26,  William 
Kendall,  of  Leominster.  Sarah,  b.  1762,  May  12;  m.  Amos  Sheldon,  of 
Fitchburg.  Joshua,  b.  1765,  March  9.  Samuel,  b.  1767,  Feb.  7.  Asa,  0, 
b.  1769.  Mav  19. 
4.  John,  son  of  William,  2,  b.  1742-3,  March  22;  m.  1768,  March  3, 
Phebe  Shattuck,  of  Dracut.  Ch.  Phehe.  b.  1768.  Dec.  19.  John,  b,  1770, 
Sept.  30.  PF////«m,  b.  1772,  Dec.  4.  Dolly,  b.  1775,  May  1;  d.  May  25. 
David,  b.  1777.  May  12;  d.  1778,  Sept.  6.  Lydia,  b.  1779,  Oct.  3.  Vernom, 
b.  1782,  Nov.  18. 
5.  Benjamin,  son  of  Benjamin.  3,  b.  1756.  April  5;  m.  1775.  June  15. 
Mary  Dows,  dau.  of  Benjamin,  2.  Ch.  Molly,  b.  1776,  Jan.  27 ;  d.  June  15. 
Prt«e,  b.  1777,  April  4.  Benjamin,  b.  1779.  March  11;  m.  1798,  Sept.  12, 
Alice  Trull,  dau.  of  Samuel,  8.  Molly,  b.  1781,  June  11;  d.  1782.  Jan.  19. 
Isaac,  b.  1782,  Dec.  17.  Anna,  b.  1784.  Oct.  28.  Nahby,  b.  1786,  Sept.  8. 
Hannah,  b.  1788,  Sept.  13.     Lucy,  baj).  1792.  Aug.  26. 
6.  Asa,  son  of  Benjamin,  3,  1).  1769,  May  19;  m.  1790,  June  29.  Mary 
Easte,  dau.  of  Benjamin,"  2^  He  d.  1822,  April  29,  and  she  m.  1826,  July  27, 
Isaac  Whiting,  13.  Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1790.  Aug.  29;  m.  Fanny  Peabody,  and 
lived  in  Andover.  Benjamin,  b.  1792,  Oct.  il ;  was  a  blacksmith  in  Frve 
village,  Andover.  Caleb,  b.  1794,  Nov.  14;  d.  1800,  May.  Amos,  b.  1796, 
Nov.  7;  d.  1876,  Nov.  1.  3fa.ry,  b.  1799,  Feb.  2;  m.  1828,' June  12,  Jedidiah 
Burtt,  of  West  Andover.  Ebenezer,  b.  1801,  June  28;  m.  Sally  AV right,  of 
Westford,  and  lived  in  NoVth  Andover.  Abigail,  b.  1803,  Dec.  10;  m.  1828, 
Nov.  6,  Amos  Peabody,  of  Middleton,  and  1844,  May,  George  Lyman. 
Caleb,  b.  1808,  Dec.  13  ;  
NEHEW,  Mrs.          'd.  March. 
Hannah,  wife  of  Nicholas,  d.  1734,  Feb.  17,  aged  86. 
NICKLES.     1.     James,  m.   Margaret    .        She  d.   1763,   Jan.   16, 
aged  54,  and  he  m.  Lienor    .     His  name  disappears  from  tax-list,  1776. 
He  was  among  the  Carlisle  petitioners  of  1757,  and  his  sons  James  and 
Joseph  were  set  oft"  to  that  town.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1735,  Oct.  20.  Anna, 
b.  1737,  July  25.  James,  4,  b.  1739,  June  19.  Bobert,  b.  1740,  Dec.  17. 
Joseph,  b.  1742,  Oct.  23.  John.  5,  b.  1745,  April  6.  Margret,  b.  1747, 
April  17.  Hannah,  b.  1752,  March  4.  Dorcas,  b.  1764,  Jan.  27.  Bebecca^ 
b.  1766,  Jan.  17. 
2.  George  m.  Martha.  Ch.  Mary,  b.  1742,  Feb.  19.  Sarah,  b.  1744, 
March  28.  George,  b.  1746,  Dec.  12.  Samuel,  b.  1748.  IMarch  12.  John, 
h.  1751,  April  11.  Paul,  h.  1753,  July  10.  [The  Record  of  Baptism  calls 
this  child  Margaret].     Martha,  b.  1756,  Oct.  10. 
3.  Robert  m.  Esther    .     He  was  among  the  Carlisle  petitioners  of 
1757,  and  his  name  disappears  from  tax-list.  1771.  Ch.  John,  b.  1744, 
June  14.  Sarah,  bap.  1749,  Oct.  15.  Elizabeth,  b.  1750,  Oct.  16.  Mary, 
b.  1753,  June  12;  m.  1791,  Sept.  30,  John  Durrent,  of  Carlisle.  Martha, 
b.  1758,  Feb.  6. 
 - 486 - 
NORTON  —  OSGOOD.  101 
4.     James,  son  of  James,  1,  b.  17;J9.  June  19.     Ch.  ))ap.,  Sarah  and 
Bette.,  1770.  May  20.     James,  1770,  July  15.     John  and  Job,  1772.  Au"-.  23 
Job  m.  1794,  June  3,  Polly  Frost,  dau.  of  Joshua,  14.  o        • 
6.  John.  He  may  have  been  son  of  1,  2  or  3;  m.  1770,  Xov.  15, 
Esther  Hill.  dau.  of  John,  14.  Ch.  John,  b.  1771,  Aug.  30.  Stephen, 
b.  1773,  Aug.  1. 
6.  William  m.  1791,  Oct.  17,  Susanna  Brown.  Ch.  3Ioses,  b.  1792, 
Jan.  15.     Susanna,  b.  1794.  July  16. 
NIXON,  Josepll,  m.  1774,  Feb.  15.  Phebe  Hardy.  Ch.  Daniel,  b.  1775, 
May  in. 
NORTON,  Jacob,  Rev.,  son  of  Samuel,  b.  in  Abington,  17G4.  Feb.  12; 
grad.  H.  C.  1786;  ord.,  Weymouth.  1787.  Oct.  10;  dis.  1824,  July  4.  Soon 
removed  to  Billerica,  and  d.  1858,  Jan.  7.  the  oldest  living  graduate 
of  Harvard.  He  m.  1789.  Feb.  11,  Elizabetli  Cranoli,  of  Braintree,  and 
1813.  May  2.  Hannah  Bowers,  dau.  of  Josiah,  3,  who  d.  1842,  March  26. 
The  record  of  his  eight  diildren,  all  by  liis  first  wife,  may  ])e  found  in 
Bond's  Watertoicn,  p.,  718.  His  dau.  Elizabeth  d.  here,  1869,  Oct.  11,  and 
his  youngest  daughter  Liicy  Ann  m.  Tliomas  Fames,  and  is  still  living  here. 
Palmer's  Harvard  Necrology,  p.  161,  gives  a  list  of  his  publications,  "seven- 
teen in  
number,  mostly  connected  witli  tlie  Unitarian  controversy. 
NO  YES.     1.     Nicholas  is  on  tax-list,  1755,  and  Isaac,  1756. 
2.  Francis  Vergnies,  m.  p..  son  of  Dr.  Nathan,  b.  in  ISTewburyport, 
1809,  Sept.  22;  grad.  Harvard  Medical  College,  1831,  and  practised  his 
profession  in  Iiis  native  town,  1831-1844.  Eesided  in  New  York  and  Illinois. 
Came  to  Billerica,  1871,  Dec,  and  lives  west  of  Bare  liill,  on  the  Lexington 
road.  Married  1836,  July,  Elizabeth  J.  Porter.  She  d.  1852,  July,  and  he 
m.  1857,  Dec.  1,  Sarah  Elizabetli  Plumer,  dau.  of  George,  of  Epping,  N.  H. 
Ch.  Ellen  Maria,  b.  1837,  July;  m.  Francis  V.  Balch,  of  Boston.  Catherine 
Porter,  b.  1839.  Feb. 
OKELL,  Hannah,  m.  1816,  June  12,  Joseph  Alexander. 
ORDWAY,  Daniel,  m.  1771,  Nov.  28.  Deborah  Lovejoy. 
ORNE,  Josiah,  of  Salem,  m.  1778,  xVug.  2,  Nancy  White.  Rebecca 
m.  1809,  Nov.  28.  Kichai'd  T.  Harris,  of  Charlestown. 
OSBAN,  Thomas.  Living  with  Timothy  Brooks,  is  'warned,'  1676, 
Nov.  17.  and  in  1683,  his  taxes  were  not  paid.  Abigail  m.  1678,  July  18, 
Isaac  Fox. 
OSGOOD.  1.  Christopher,  was  b.  in  Andover,  1675.  June  28.  His 
father,  Christoplier,  was  1).  in  Ipswich,  1643  ;  
the  son  of  Christopher,  who 
came  to  America  in  1633  ;  
his  brothers,  Jolm  and  William,  soon  after, 
settling  in  Andover  and  Salisbury.  Tliey  were  from  .  
Andover.  in 
Hampshire,  England.  Mi'.  Osgood  received  from  Billerica.  as  elsewhere 
stated,  a  grant  of  the  mill  privilege  at  North  Billerica,  1708,  Oct.  4,  and 
built  the  grist  mill  tliere.  All  subsequent  proprietors  derive  title  from  this 
grant.  He  m.  1711.  June  1,  (The  Charlestown  Record  says  August.)  Mary 
Keves,  of  Chelmsford.  She  d.  1715,  Dec.  13,  and  he  m.  Elizabeth  Danforth, 
dau.  of  Jonathan,  2.  He  d.  1739.  Sept.  11.  She  d.  1766.  Jan.  11. 
Ch.  Christopher,  2,  b.  1712,  July  21.  Fhinehas,  3,  b.  1714,  June  20.  Joseph, 
b.  1715,  Dec.  4;  d.  Dec.  9.  Elizabeth,  b.  1718,  June  13;  d.  July  5. 
Joseph,  4,  b.  1719,  Juljr  10.  Benjamin,  b.  1721,  Maj^  25;  taken  prisoner  by 
the  Indians,  near  Fort  Dummer,  as  elsewhere  related,  1747,  June  16; 
redeemed  via.  Louisburg,  Oct.  6.  but  died  soon  after  from  the  effect  of  the 
hardship  and  cruelties  he  had  suffered.  His  bro.  David  was  exeCutor  of  his 
will,  1748,  March  13.  David,  5,  b.  1724,  June  3.  Elizabeth,  b.  1725-6, 
Jan.  22;  d.  1748.     Jonathan,  b.  1727,  Aug.  24;  d.  1729,  May  15. 
2.  Christopher,  son  of  Christopher.  1,  b.  1712.  July  21  ;  ra.  1735-6, 
Jan.  1,  Sarah  Abbot,  dau.  of  Dea.  Joshua.  1.  He  d.  1748,  Aug.  26. 
Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1738.  May  28 ;  
in.  William  WHiitwell.  Mary,  b.  1740.  Aug.  31. 
Christopher,  b.  1743,  April  12.  Bebeckah,  b.  1746,  June  11 ;  
d.  1749,  Oct.  22. 
John,  b.  1748,  April  24;  d.  1749,  Oct.  17. 
 - 487 - 
102  OSGOOD  —  PAGE. 
3.  Phinehas,  son  of  Christopher,  1,  b.  1714,  June  20;  m.  1738-9, 
Feb.  G.  Ilannali  Abl)ot.  dan.  of  Dea.  Joshua.  1.     She  d.  1753,  Jan.  11,  and 
he  d.   17r)0.   June  3.     Cli.    JIaiinah,   b.    1743,   Sept.   24;  \n.      Williams. 
Fltinehas.  7,  b.  1752.  Nov.  25. 
4.  Joseph,   son  of  Christoplier.  1,  b.  1710.  July  10;  m.  Sarah    . 
His  name  disappears  from  tax-list.  1782.  Ch.  iSarah.  b.  1749-50,  Jan.  31; 
m.  17(51),  Feb.  23,  Joseph  Warren,  of  Chelmsford.  Joseph^  b.  1751,  Aug.  26; 
m.  1778,  May  2(i.  Rel);'cca  Slied.  dau.  of  Daniel,  12,  Benjamin^  b.  1756, 
Ma}'  6.     Clinatopher,  b.  176G.  Oct.  31. 
5.  David,  son  of  (^;hristopher.  1,  b.  1724,  June  3;  ni.  Hannah  Davis. 
She  d.  1747-8,  Feb.  15.  and  he  m.  1748.  Nov.  15,  Sarah  Danforth,  dau.  of 
Samuel,  6.  He  d.  1768.  Feb.  2;  was  an  innkeeper.  She  d.  1773.  Jan.  16. 
Ch.  David,  b.  1747-8.  Feb.  6;  d.  Feb.  7.  Elizabeth,  b.  1749,  Feb.  14; 
m.  Elijah  r>anfortii,  11.  Hannah,  b.  1752,  June  19;  d.  1773,  Jan.  16. 
Sarah,  b.  1754.  Jan.  25.  David,  b.  1756.  July  20;  m.  Ruth  Badger,  and 
lived  in  Amherst,  N.  H. ;  
had  6  ehildren;  d.  1827.  DoUey,  b.  17.58,  Aug.  6. 
Phinehas,  b.  1760,  July  16;  m.  Hannah  Davis,  of  Concord;  d.  1813.  Mully, 
b.  1764.  Jan.  26;  tl.  Dec.  21. 
6.  Steplien,  son  of  Stephen,  of  Andover,  b.  1709,  Aug.  18 ;  m.  1730, 
March  4,  Dorcas  Ballard.  He  lived  in  Tewksbury  ;  
d.  1772,  March  24. 
Ch.  Dorcas,  b.  1731-2.  Jan.  29;  m.  Joseph  Davis;  d.  1754,  Jan.  31.  Hannah, 
b.  1734-5,  Feb.  10.  3Iary,  b.  1736,  Dee.  29.  Bebecca,  b.  1739,  Oct.  5. 
Stephen,  b.  1741.  Sept,  30.  Lydia,  b.  1744.  March  27.  Anne,  b.  1746, 
April  22;  d.  1748.  Oct.  5.  Joseph,  b.  1748,  Sept.  23;  d.  Oct.  17.  Anne, 
b.  1749.  Nov.  5.     Joseph,  b.  1752.  Oct.  18.     Feter,  b.  1756,  .Jan.  13. 
7.  Phinehas,  son  of  Phinehas,  3,  b.  1752,  Nov.  25;  m.  1784,  April  20, 
Hannah  Davis,   of  Concord,        Ch.   Hannah,   b.   1784,   Nov.    14;    m.    
Williams,  of  Boston.  David,  b.  1785,  Nov.  28;  m.  Hannah  Dulgar.  Ann, 
b.  1788,  Oct,  13.  Sarah,  b.  1791,  Nov.  7;  m.  William  Whitwell,  of  Boston. 
Samuel,  b.  1793;  ra.  Charlotte  Brown.  Maria,  b.  1795,  May  4;  m.  Aaron 
Smith.     Ambrose,  b.  1798,  June  25. 
8.  Samuel,  son  of  Joseph  and  Polly  (Jewett.)  was  b.  in  Nelson, 
N.  H.,  1825,  March  4.  He  lives  bj^  the  old  cemetery,  at  the  corner  ;  
m.  1851, 
Jan.  1,  Mrs.  Lydia  (Giles)  Cutler,  of  Lincoln.  Ch.  Charles  F.,  b.  1858, 
April  6;  d.  1864.  Aug.  24.  Edwin  Augustus,  b.  1841,  Aug.  29;  a  soldier  in 
the  War.  George  Alfred,  b.  1843,  Aug.  5.  The  two  latter,  sons  of  Mrs. 
Osgood  by  her  prior  marriage,  are  adopted  members  of  Mr.  Osgood's 
family. 
PAGE.  1.  Nathaniel.  [Paige  was  a  frequent  early  spelling,  still 
connuonly  used  by  some  branches  of  the  family].  He  was  in  Roxbury, 
1686.  Tlie  only  clue  to  his  English  origin  is  the  supposition  that  he  was 
brother  of  Nicholas,  of  Boston,  1665.  who  came  from  Plymouth,  England. 
Gov.  Joseph  Dudley  ai^pointed  him  Marshall  of  Suffolk  county.  He  bought 
land  of  George  Grimes,  and  settled  in  Billerica  about  1688.  His  place  was 
near  the   Shawshin,   in  Bedford.     His   wife   was  Joanna.     He   '"dyed  at 
Boston,   12-02-92."      Ch.   Nathaniel,   2,   b.   about  1679.       Elisabeth,    , 
ni.  John  Simpkins.  of  Boston.       Sarah     m.  Samuel  Hill,  10.      James, 
bap.   1686,   Nov.   28 ;  
d.   1687,   July  31.     Christopher,  3,  b.  1690-1,  Feb.  6. 
2.  Nathaniel,  son  of  Nathaniel.  1,  b.  about  1679;  m.  1701,  Nov.  6, 
Susanna  Lane,  dau.  of  Col.  John,  2.  She  d.  1746.  Sept.  2,  and  he 
m.  1748,  June  23,  Mary  Grimes.  He  d.  1755,  March  2,  aged  75. 
Ch.  Nathaniel.  4,  b.  1702,  Sept.  4.  John,  6,  b.  1704,  Oct.  11.  Christo})her,  6, 
b.  1707,  July  16.  Srtsanna,  b.  1711,  April  29;  m.  Samuel  Bridge,  of 
Lexington;  d.  1735.     Joanna,  b.  1714.  Oct.  29;  ni.  Josiah  Fassett.  {see  3). 
3.  Christopher,  son  of  Nathaniel,  1,  b.  1690-1,  Feb.  6;   ni.  Joanna 
  .   She  d.  1719,  Oct.  27,  and  he  m.  1720,  May  23,  Elizabeth  Reed,  dau.  of 
Dea.  George,  of  Woburn.  He  d.  in  Hardwick,  Mass.,  1774,  INIarch  10.  and 
his  widow,  1786,  aged  86.  Ch.  Joanna,  b.  1717,  Aug.  10;  ui.  Benjamin 
Farley,  (see  8).  Christopher,  h.  1721,  June  11;  m.  1738,  Rebecca  Haskell; 
d.  1772,  Dec.  3.    William,  b.  1723,  May  2 ;  m.  1743-4,  Mercy  Aiken  ;  
d.  1790, 
 - 488 - 
PAGE.  103 
Feb.  14;  she  d.  1823,  Feb.  19,  aged  102.  Rev.  Christopher  Paige,  of  New 
Hampshire.  D.  C  1784,  was  his  son.  George,  b.  1725,  June  17;  m.  1752. 
June  4.  Rosilla  AVhiteonib;  d.  1781,  May  8.  Timntlvu  b.  1727,  May  24- 
ni.  1754,  Oct.  24,  Mary  Foster,  of  Rochester.  He.  d.  1791,  Aug.  26,  and  she 
d.  1825,  July  21,  aged  93.  His  son  Timothy,  b.  1757,  Feb.  16;  d.  1821, 
Oct.  29 ;  
was  the  father  of  Rev.  Lucius  R.  Paige,  the  historian,  of  Cambridge. 
Rev.  Reed  Paige,  D.  C.  1786;  pastor  of  Hancock.  N.  H..  from  1791,  to 
death,  in  1816,  was  another  son.  Jonas,  b.  1729,  Sept.  19.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1731.  Oct.  3.  Lwij,  b.  1733-4.  Feb.  22 ;  m.  Seth  Lincoln,  of  Western.  And 
b.  in  Hardwiek:  NathanieU  b.  1736,  May  12;  d.  1816.  Jan.  6.  John.  b.  1738, 
July  6;  d.  1811.  April  14;  father  of  Rev.  Winslow  Paige,  a  Presbytenan 
minister,  who  d.  at  Broome,  N.  Y.,  1838,  March  15,  aged  73.  Elizabeth. 
b.  1743,  June  7;  m.  Solomon  Green,  of  Leicester.  Rev.  Archelaus  Green, 
a  Universalist  minister  who  d.  at  Virgil,  N.  Y.,  1843,  Dec.  25,  aged  73,  was 
a  son. 
4.  Nathaniel,  son  of  iSTathaniel.  2,  b.  1702.  Sept. 4;  m.  Hannah    . 
She  d.  1763,  Sept.  7;  he  d.  1779,  April  6.  Ch.  7yio?n«s,  b.  1733,  May  5. 
Hannah,  b.  1736,  May  15;  m.  Jonas  French,  20.  WilUam.  b.  1737-8 
Feb.  19;  d.  1812.  Feb.  10.  David,  b.  1740.  April  4.  Stisanna^h.llAI, 
Jan.  22;  d.  1772,  Jan.  26.     Abigail,  b.  1745,  Sept.  5. 
5.  John,  son  of  Nathaniel,  2,  b.  1704,  Oct.  11 ;  m.  Rebecca  Wheeler, 
of  Concord.  She  d.  1755,  July  12,  aged  43,  and  he  m.  1756,  Jan.  15, 
Amittai  Fasset.  widow  of  Joseph,  of  Lexington.  She  d.  1771,  Dec  25.  and 
he  m.  1773,  June  3,  Rachel  Fitch,  widow  of  Joseph.  2.  He  d.  1782, 
Feb.  18.  She  d.  1801.  Jan.  16,  aged  88.  Ch.  John.  b.  1733,  Sept.  2;  settled 
in  Hardwiek;  d.  1789,  Oct.  31.  leaving  a  numerous  posterity.  James, 
b.  1735,  May  12;  d.  in  Hardwiek,  1817,  Jan.  18.  Ebenezer,  b.  1737,  June  3; 
had  11  children  ;  
d.  in  Bedford,  1784,  June  9.  Susanna,  b.  1739.  Oct.  21 ; 
d.  1750,  Feb.  26.  Timothy,  b.  1741,  June  11;  killed  in  battle  at  White 
Plains,  1776.  Oct.  25.  Nathaniel,  b.  1742,  June  20 ;  d.  in  Bedford,  1815, 
July  31.  Most  of  the  present  family  in  Bedford  come  from  him,  one  dau. 
Mrs.  Ruhamah  Lane,  still  living,  aged  91.  Eebecca,  b.  1743.  Aug.  23; 
m.  Solomon  Cutler,  and  lived  in  Rindge,  N.  H.  Jfar?/,  b.  1745,  July  5 ; 
d.  Oct.  13.  Joanna,  b.  1746,  June  15;  m.  Samuel  Reed,  of  Woburn. 
Sarah,  b.  1747.  June  8;  m.  Josiah  Beard,  14.  Elizabeth,  b.  1748,  Aug.  3; 
m.  Micah  Reed,  of  Woburn.  Susanna,  b.  1750,  June  12;  m.  Amos  Haggitt, 
of  Concord.  Samtiel,  b.  1751,  Aug.  1 ;  
lived  in  Rindge.  Mary,  b.  1753, 
Oct.  9;  d.  Oct.  21. 
6.  Christopher,  son  of  Nathaniel,  2,  b.  1707.  July  16;  ni.  1742, 
Feb.  2,  Susanna  Webber,  of  Medford.  He  d.  1786,  Nov.  11,  and  she 
d.  1792,  July  20,  aged  82.  Ch.  Christopher,  b.  1743,  Oct.  29.  Susanna, 
b.  1745,  May  17;  d.  1746.  Sept.  8.  3Iary.  b.  1746-7,  Feb.  20.  Job,  h.  1748, 
May  31.  Susanna,  b.  1750,  April  7;  d.  1754,  March  28.  Lucy,  b.  1752, 
March  26;  d.  1754,  March  26. 
7.  Arza,  son  of  John,  of  Bedford,  m.  1832,  June  11,  Elizabeth  T. 
Currier,  of  Warner,  N.  H.  He  d.  1868,  Feb.  18,  and  she  m.  Franklin 
Robinson.  Ch.  Joseph  Merriam,  b.  1832,  Nov.  23;  m.  and  lives  in  Texas. 
Hannette  C,  b.  1835,  Sept.  18;  m.  John  Holden,  of  Dracut.  3Iary  Erancis, 
b.  1838,  July  29;  m.  Dr.  Albert  Thorndike,  of  Stockton.  Cal.  Angelia 
Streeter,  b.  1841,  Feb.  2;  d.  1842,  April  28.  Georgiana  Bryant,  b.  1843, 
Feb.  22;  ra.  Jackson  Wi-ight,  .5.  Elizabeth  Augusta,  b.  1845.  March  8 ; 
m.  Dr.  William  E.  Spencer,  of  Placerville,  Cal.  Ella  Maria  Kimball, 
b.  1849,  Aug.  28;  m.  Winslow  Hall,  of  San  Francisco. 
8.  Ambrose  French,  son  of  Ebenezer,  b.  in  Salem,  N.  H.,  1807, 
Sept.  18;  m.  1843,  Jan.  26,  Sarah  H.  Manning,  dau.  of  Theophilus,  15. 
Ch.  Ann  Mary.  b.  1848,  March  20 ;  
Assistant  Principal  of  the  Howe  school, 
1871-5;  m.  1877,  Jan.  31,  Lemuel  Webster  Hall,  of  Lowell. 
9.  James,  bro.  of  preceding;  b.  in  Tewksbury,  1815.  Aug. 3;  m.  1858, 
Feb.  21,  Rebecca  J.  Driver.  CR.  Anna  Jane,  b.  1859,  April  29.  Hattie  Ella 
b.  1866,  April  9.     Martha  Ella,  b.  1871,  Aug.  6. 
 - 489 - 
104  PARKER. 
PARKER.  A  group  of  five  Paikovs  appear  in  the  early  settlement 
of  tliis  vifinity.  Abraliani  ;  
Jacob;  .lames.  2;  John.  1,  and  Joseph.  3. 
That  they  were  all  brothers  is  not  certain,  but  i)rol)able.  Abraham, 
Jacob  anil  John  were  V)rothers.  and  James,  then  of  Groton.  was  adminis- 
trator of  
Abraham's  estate,  as  a  brother  might  naturally  be.  and  these  two 
first  appear  in  Woburn  together.  Abraham  and  Jacob  lived  and  died  in 
Chelmsford. 
1.  John.  John  deserves  to  be  recognized  among  the  foremost  in  the 
settlement  of  this  town.  He  leased  and  lived  upon  the  large  farm  belong- 
ing to  the  church  in  Cambridge,  north  of  the  Woburn  road,  on  both  sides 
Shawshin  river.  He  was  the  first  town  clerk  and  the  first  collector  of 
taxes;  was  the  agent  of  the  town  in  locating  and  disposing  of  the  two 
large  grants,  one  of  8000  acres  sold  to  Brenton.  and  the  proceeds  used  to 
extinguish  Cambridge  titles,  and  the  other  of  4000  acres,  ixsed  variously  for 
the  town's  benefit.  He  built  the  first  meeting-house,  and  whatever  the 
town  had  to  do.  Mr.  Parker  was  very  likely  to  do  it.  It  is  not  known 
whence  he  came,  or  when  he  arrived  in  America.  His  wife  was  the  widow 
of  John  Poulter,  who  was  of  Ealeigh,  in  Essex,  not  far  from  Billericay. 
The  wife  of  Jonathan  Danforth  was  her  daughter,  but  Mr.  Parker  had  no 
children.  He  and  Danforth  call  each  other  father-in-law  and  son-in-law, 
{Gi-ants,  p.  11,  No.  3).  He  d.  1667,  June  14,  and  if  born  in  1600.  he  was  four 
years  older  than  his  wife.  She  ni.  1674,  April  16.  Thonuis  Chaniberlain, 
sen.,  of  Clielmsford,  and  d.  there.  1692-3,  Feb.  8,  aged  88.  Mr.  Parker's 
extensive  enterprises  left  his  estate  insolvent,  his  creditors  receiving  15 
shillings  and  6  pence  per  pound. 
2.  James  was  one  of  the  three  original  purchasers  of  the  '"  
Dudley 
farm,"  and  the  only  one  who  settled  in  town;  he  soon  removed  to 
Chelmsford,  in  1658,  selling  his  right  here  to  Golden  More  ;  
but  in  1660.  lie 
joined  the  Groton  settlement  and  was  there,  first  selectman  and  leading 
citizen,  dying  1701,  aged  83.  While  in  Billerica,  he  was  agent  for  the  heirs 
of  the  "Winthrop'  farm,  and  a  letter  written  by  him  in  1654,  in  relation  to 
it,  is  found  in  the  ''  
Wintlirop  papers"  and  quoted  elsewhere. 
3.  Joseph  had  a  township  grant  where  the  Baptist  church  stands. 
It  was  sold  to  George  Willice  and  soon  again  to  Daniel  Shed.  Mr.  Parker 
settled  in  Chelmsford  ;  
afterwards  in  Groton,  and  was  apparently  one  of  the 
Dunstable  petitioners  in  1673. 
4.  Robert,  of  Cambridge,  was  one  of  the  sub-purchasers  of  the 
Dudley  farm,  and  had  also  a  grant,  afterwards  exchanged,  on  the  township. 
He  never  lived  in  town,  but  his  oldest  son,  Benjamin^  5,  lived  here. 
5.  Benjamin,  son  of  Robert,  4,  b.  1636,  June,  was  here  in  1660. 
Besides  his  "township'  and  'farm'  lots,  he  had  a  grant,  south  of  Bare  hill, 
where  his  house  stood,  west  of  the  old  Woburn  road,  as  it  ran  over  the  top 
of  the  hill.  He  m.  1661,  April  18,  Sarah  Hartwell,  dau.  of  William,  of 
Concord.  He  d.  1671-2,  Jan.  17;  she  d.  1674,  July  8.  Ch.  Benjamin,  6, 
b.  1662,  June  29.  John,  b.  1663,  Dec.  3,  and  d.  Dec.  8.  Samuel,  b.  1664, 
Nov.  9;d.  John,  7,  b.  1667-8,  March  17.  Samuel,  b.  1670,  Sept.  26; 
d.Dec.  1. 
6.  Benjamin,  son  of  Benjamin,  5,  b.  1062,  June  29 ;  m.  1684,  Oct.  11, 
Mary  Trull,  dau.  of  John,  1.  She  d.  1694,  Sept.  15,  and  he  m.  1697,  Nov.  10, 
Abigail  French,  dau.  of  John,  2.  Shed.  1722-3,  March  13,  and  he  m.  1726, 
Nov.  23,  Mary  Poodney,  of  W^oburn.  He  d.  1733,  Dec.  23.  Ch.  Mai-y, 
b.  1685-6,  Jan.  20;  m.  1705,  Dec.  3,  Phillip  Priest,  of  Concord.  Sarah, 
b.  1687,  Dec.  2.  Benjamin,  8,  b.  1689,  Oct.  26.  Abigail,  b.  1698,  Sept.  11 ; 
m.  John  Marshall,  3.  John,  9,  b.'  1700.  Dec.  17.  Hannah,  b.  1702-3, 
Jan.  26;  m.     Frost.     Bethiah,h.  1705,  Sept.  17;  m.  Eichard  Snow,  1, 
7.  John,  son  of  Benjamin,  5,  b.  1667-8,  March  17;  m.  1696,  Dec.  13, 
Abigail  Whittaker,  dau.  of  John.  He  d.  1698-9,  Jan.  1,  and  she  m.  Simon 
Crosby,  2.     Ch.  John,  10,  b.  1698,  May  14, 
8.  Benjamin,  son  of  Benjamin,  6,  \t.  1689,  Oct.  26;  m.  1711,  Oct.  22, 
Lydia  Chamberlain,  dau.  of  John,  2.    His  name  disappears  from  tax-list, 
 - 490 - 
PARKER.  105 
1735.  Ch.  Lydia,  b.  1712,  March  12.  Benjamin,  11,  b.  1720,  Sept.  17. 
Sarah,  b.  1724,  May  12.  Mary,  b.  172G,  Oct.  12;  m.  Simeon  Jefts,  7. 
Hobert,  b.  1730.  July  13. 
9.  John,  son  of  Benjamin.  6,  b.  1700,  Dec.  17;  m.  Mary  Crosby,  dau. 
of  Nathan,  4.  She  d.  1764,  Dec.  1.  His  will  is  dated  1747,  May  29,  and 
entered  1748,  March  20 ;  mentions  wife  Mary  and  sisters  Abigail  Marshall. 
Hannah  Frost  and  Bethiah  Snow.  The  children  must  have  died.  Ch.  John 
and  Mary,  twins,  b.  1745,  March  30. 
10.  John,    son    of    John,    7,    b.    1698.    May    14;    m.    Sarah      . 
Ch.  Samuel  12,  b.  1722,  Dec.  10..  Probably  Stephen,  who  d.  1748,  Nov.  4, 
aged  24,  and  David,  13. 
11.  Benjamin,  son  of  Benjamin.  8,  b.  1720,  Sept.  17;  m.  1742,  June, 
Mary  Corey,  prob.  dau.  of  Jacob.  Ch.  Levi,  16,  b.  1743,  Sept.  14.  David, 
b.  1745.  June  3;  m.  1764,  Oct.  4,  Phebe  Swallow,  of  Chelmsford. 
Nathaniel,  16,  b.  1746,  March  23.  Mary,  b.  1748.  Jan.  25.  Lydia,  b.  1750, 
Jan.  28;  m.  1770.  May  29,  Timothy  Wetherbee,  of  Pepperell.  Ruth.  b.  1752. 
July  3;  m.  Ebenezer  Lewis,  (see  2).  John,  b.  1754,  Jan.  15.  William, 
b.  1757,  May  31. 
12.  Samuel,  son  of  John.  10,  b.  1722,  Dec.  10;  m.  Anne  Tarbell,  dau. 
of  John,  1.  He  d.  1752,  Nov.  21,  and  she  m.  Nathan  Crosby.  12. 
Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1743-4,  Feb.  9.  Anne,  b.  1745.  Feb.  7.  muh.  b.  1747-8, 
Feb.  27.  John  und  Jonetth an,  b.  1750,  Aug.  15.  Rebecca,  b.  1752,  May  16; 
m.  Nathaniel  Cowdry,  of  Westford,  father  of  Joseph,  2. 
13.  David,  prob.  son  of  John,  10,  perhaps  bro.  of  John,  14,  m.  Alice 
Thompson,  dau.  of  Benjamhi,  2.  She  d.  1768,  Aug.  1.  Ch.  Alice,  b.  1758, 
Aug.  3.  David.h.  1761,  Feb.  13.  Peleg,  bap.  1763,  April  10;  d.  1768,  Oct.  11. 
Rachel,  bap.  1766.  Nov.  30 ;  
d.  1768.  July  3. 
14.  John,  was  from  Bradford;  son  of  Daniel;  b.  1720.  He  was  a 
tanner  and  lived  south  of  the  common.  During  the  Revolution,  his 
business  was  very  prosperous.  He  m.  1751,  Abigail  Kidder,  dau.  of 
Enoch,  9.  She  d.  1777,  Aug.  17.  He  d.  1803.  May  5,  aged  83.  Ch.  Abigail 
b.  1751,  Dec.  1.  Sarah,  b.  1753,  Dec.  9;  m.  Samuel  Hill.  27.  John,  17, 
b.  1756,  May  9.  An7ie,  b.  1758,  Sept.  10;  d.  1760,  Feb.  27.  Stephen,  18, 
b.  1760,  Dec.  1.    An7ie,  b.  1762,  Aug.  12;  m.  1791,  Nov.  17,  Thomas  Stone, 
of  ''Packston."     She  m.  2d,     Pritchard;  d.   1854,   Nov.  29.     Martha, 
b.  1765,  March  16;  d.  Nov.  17.  Daniel,  b.  1766,  Oct.  3;  m.  1797.  Feb. 
17  or  19,  Ruth  Hunt.  dau.  of  Reuben,  of  Concoid;  was  a  tanner  in 
Charlestown.  where  he  d.  1803,  Feb.,  leaving  ch.  Ruth,  John  and  Thomas 
Stone,  Avho  lived  in  Hartford.  Conn.,  a  silk-dyer.  Elizabeth,  b.  1769,  Oct.  5; 
m.  James  Breed.   Samuel.  19,  b.  1772,  May  25. 
15.  Levi,  son  of  Benjamin.  11,  b.  1743,  Sept.  14;  m.  1766.  Jan.  14, 
Sarah  Blodgett,  of  Lexington;  lived  in  Carlisle.  Ch.  Molly,  b.  1772,  June  2. 
William,  b.  1774,  Aug.  22.  Sibbel,  b.  1776.  June  16.  Lydia.  b.  1779, 
Feb.  24. 
16.  Nathaniel,  son  of  Benjamin,  11,  b.  1746,  March  23;  m.  1771. 
May  9,  Eleanor  Robbins,  of  Chelmsford.  He  d.  in  Cai-lisle,  about  1803, 
when  a  guardian  was  appointed  for  his  minor  ch.,  John  and  Sarah. 
Ch.  Lucy,'h.  1772.  March  7.  Nathaniel,  b.  1773,  Oct.  18.  Ephraim.  b.  1776, 
June  21.     Eleanor,  bap.  1778,  May  10.     Probably  Jonas. 
17.  John,  son  of  John,  14,  b.  1756,  May  9;  ra.  1778.  Dec.  30,  Mary 
Shattuck.  She  d.  1794,  Dec.  1.  and  he  m.  1795.  Dec.  27,  Susanna  Minot, 
dau.  of  Timothy,  of  Concord.  He  d.  1832.  March  14.  She  d.  1841.  Oct.  15, 
aged  76.  Ch.  John.  b.  1780,  May  12;  d.  1792.  Aug.  17.  3Iary  and  A7ina, 
b.  1782,  Aug.  26.  Mary  d.  1783.  May  15.  Henry,  20,  b.  1784,  Aug.  28. 
David,  21,  b.  1786,  May  16.  Frederic  Augustus,  22,  b.  1789,  Dec.  21. 
Maria,  b.  1797,  Oct.  10;  m.  Marshall  Preston.  John  3Ii7iot  and  Susanna 
Mirick,  bap.  1802,  Sept.  5.    Georqe.  b.  1805,  March  21 ;  
lives  in  Rockford,  111. 
18.  Stephen,  son  of  John.*  14,  b.  1760,  Dec.  1 ;  
Duren,  dau.  of  Reuben,  12.  She  d.  1801,  Oct.  11,  andm.  he 1790.m.    Jan.  30.  Mary 
Sibbel  Parker, 
dau.  of  Epln-aim,  of  Dracut.     He  d.  1829.  Oct.  8,  and  she  d.  1847,  June  26, 
 - 491 - 
100  PARKER. 
aged  80.  Ch.  3Iary,  b.  1793,  May  11 ;  ni.  1820,  Nov.  19,  Rev.  Rodney  Gove 
Dennis,  who  was  b.  in  New  Boston,  N.  H.,  1791,  April  17;  grad.  B.  C, 
181G,  and  Andover  Theo.  Sem.,  1819;  ordained.  Topsfield,  Mass..  1820, 
Oet.  4;  dis.  1829,  ]May  G;  installed,  Soniers,  Conn..  1830,  June  30,;  dis. 
1839,  June;  acting  pastor,  Fairfield,  Conn.,  1841—45;  Ilillsboro,  N.  H., 
1857-59;  without  charge.  Southboro.  Mass.,  until  death,  1865,  Sept.  29. 
Stephen,  b.  1795,  Feb.  20;  ni.  Caroline  Jaquith;  no  ch.  Sarah,  b.  1796, 
Sept.  14;  ni.  John  Whitney,  of  Stow  and  West  Cambridge  ;  
no  ch.  Elizabeth 
b.  1800,  April  5;  ni.  1819.  Dec.  2.  Sanuiel  L.  Amiable.  His  dau.  Sarah 
lives  with  Jlrs.  Osborn.  Jahu.  bap.  1805,  F'eb.  24;  d.  voung.  Daniel.  23, 
b.  1806,  Oct.  28.  Gardner.  24,  b.  1808,  Sept.  19.  Clarissa,  b.  1810,  Dec.  11 ; 
m.  William  Rixey,  of  Virginia.  He  d.  1861,  and  she  m.  William  Osbom, 
of  Lynn,  who  d.  in  Billerica,  1872,  Dee.  20,  aged  79. 
i9.  Samuel,  son  of  John.  14,  b.  1772.  May  25;  m.  Sarah  Warren,  of 
Littleton.  She  d.  1816.  June  6,  aged  42,  and  he"d.  1841,  Oct.  14.  He  lived 
near  the  corner  bridge ;  was  a  skillful  machinist,  and  patented  a  machine 
for  splitting  leather,  which  has  still  wide  use  and  is  exclusively  manufac- 
tured at  the  Hill  machine  shop  in  South  Billerica.  Ch.  Sarah  Botcers, 
bap.  1806.  June  8;  m.  1830.  Aug.  30,  Ariel  Work,  who  was  b.  in  .Vshford, 
Conn.,  1792.  June  5.  and  grad.  at  Hamilton  College.  1825.  He  d.  1874, 
Nov.  23,  and  shed.  1876,  Oct.  19.  Samuel,  b.  1807,  Nov.  19;  d.  Dec.  10. 
Charlotte  Avgnsta,  bap.  1809,  June  11 ;  m.  at  New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  1838, 
Oct.  8,  Rev.  Benjamin  Peach  Keasberry,  who  was  for  38  years  a  devoted  and 
successful  missionary  to  the  Malays.  He  was  the  son  of  an  English 
colonel  in  the  Indian  army;  b.  at  Hyderabad,  1811.  Oet.  30,  and  d.  at 
Singapore,  1875,  Sept.  15.  He  was  at  first  in  the  employ  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society,  but  when  the  other  missionaries  went  to  China,  on  the 
opening  of  the  "treaty  ports."  he  chose  to  remain  among  the  Malays. 
The  Maharajah,  of  Johore.  was  among  his  pupils,  and  when  he  d.  craved 
the  privilege  of  erecting  a  monument  to  his  memory.  He  was  twice 
married.  His  second  wife  was  the  mother  of  seven  sons  and  five  daughters. 
By  his  first  wife  he  had  ch.  Eliza,  the  wife  of  James  Meldrum,  esq.,  of 
Edinburg.  and  Sarah,  who  m.  Rev,  James  Ince.  now  settled  in  Midnapore, 
India.  Samuel,  bap.  1810,  Sept.  16.  He  was  a  business  man  in  Providence 
and  Newport,  R.  I.,  where  he  d.  about  1874,  leaving  no  children.  He  was 
for  several  vears  the  state  treasurer.  Sampson  Warren,  b.  1813,  May  25 ; 
d.  about  1840.     Ann;  b.  1815.  Jan.  30;  d.  Feb.  2. 
20.  Henry,  son  of  John.  17,  b.  1784,  Aug.  28;  m.  1809.  Jan.  26. 
Lydia  Matthews.  He  d.  1820,  July  28.  and  she  d.  1825.  Aug.  22,  aged  35. 
Ch.  Li/iUa  Ann.  b.  1810.  May  21;  d.  July  5.  Gustavus.  b.  1814.  , Ian.  25; 
d.  March  9.  Francis  James,  bap.  1815,  Jan.  8 ;  was  in  the  Mexican  War 
under  Gen.  Taylor,  and  in  the  Union  Army  under  Gen.  Banks;  lives  in 
Brownsville,  Texas;  has  been  Mayor  and  is  Judge  of  Circuit  Court.  At 
Santa  Rosa,  he  owns  a  ranch  of  '54,000  aci-es,  and  has  herds  of  6000  to 
10.000  cattle;  unmarried.  Henrietta,  bap.  1819,  Aug.  20;  m.  1842,  Nov.  24, 
Rufus  Lapham  of  Lowell. 
21.  David,  son  of  John,  17,  b.  1786,  May  16;  m.  1809.  Oct.  25, 
Achsah  Crosby,  dau.  of  Hezekiah,  21.  She  d.  1857.  Oct.  22,  aged  71;  he 
d.  1874.  Feb.  5.  Ch.  John  Henry,  b.  1810,  Aug.  28;  d.  with  Asiatic  cholera, 
1849.  Aug.  5.  Caroline,  b.  1812,  Jan.  15;  m.  Frederic  Folsom,  of  Boston, 
and  d.  without  issue.  1877,  Feb.  8.  Augusta,  b.  1814.  Jan.  14;  m.  1839, 
Nov.  19.  Fredi-rick  Spoftbrd,  of  Bucksport,  Me.,  and  is  now  living  there. 
William  Crosby,  b.  1815.  July  2;  lives  in  Unionville,  S.  C.  Charles  Edwin, 
b.  1817,  May  29;  m.  1841.  Aug.  15;  has  lived  in  the  South;  17  j^ears  in 
Cayuga  county.  New  York,  and  14  years  in  Pittsfield,  Mass.  ;  
has  5  ch. 
all'm.  Achsah  Crosby,  b.  1819,  Oct.  6:  lives  in  Bucksport,  Me.  Norman, 
b.  1821.  Jan.  11;  m.  1852;  lives  in  Lincoln.  Neb.  Mary  Ann.  b.  1822, 
June  27 ;  m.  John  Knowles.  and  lives  in  North  Chelmsford.  Edward  David, 
b.  1827,  Dec.  6;  m.  1854,  Aug.  14,  Mary  E.  Field;  Lieutenant  and  Captain  , 
in  th;'Union  Army  from  New  York;  wounded  at  Gettysburg  and  taken 
prisoner;  Major  Parker  now  lives  in  Auburn.  N.  Y.  James  Lewis,  b.  1829, 
Dec.  19;  ni.  and  in  1859,  d.  in  Lawrence. 
 - 492 - 
PARKER— PATERSON.  107 
22.  Frederick  Augustus,  son  of  John,  17,  b.  1789,  Dec.  21;  H.  C, 
1813;  M.  D.,  B.  U.,  1816;  m.  Mary  Coggin.  of  Tewksbury  ;  
lived  in  Salem; 
d.  1827,  April  23.  Ch.  Frederick  Augustus,  b.  1819;  d.  1842,  Jiine  18. 
Charles  Henn/.  25,  b.  1820.  July  20. 
23.  Daniel,  son  of  Stephen.  18,  b.  1806.  Oct.  28;  M.  D.,  B.  C,  1833; 
tn.  1844.  Sept.  23.  Mary  E.  Bryant,  dau.  of  Nathan,  of  Bedford;  practises 
his  profession  in  his  native  town  ;  author  of  the  Bi-Centennial  poem,  1855. 
Ch.  Clarissa  Maria,  b.  1848,  June  21;  d.  1876,  Oct.  2.  Frederick  £".,  b.  1851, 
Feb.  28 ;  d.  1853,  July  22.  Mary  Alice,  b.  1852,  June  24.  Susan  C,  b.  1855, 
Jan.  ;  d.  1858,  July  21. 
24.  Gardner,  son  of  Stephen,  18,  b.  1808,  Sept.  19;  m.  1841,  May  16, 
Adeline  M.  Wilson,  dau.  of  Daniel,  9.  He  lives  on  the  ancestral  Kidder- 
Parker  place,  on  West  street;  has  been  active  and  useful  in  town'  affairs. 
Revenue  Assessor  during  the  War;  is  President  of  the  Trustees  of  the  Howe 
school,  and  Chairman  of  the  Historical  Committee,  under  whose  auspices 
this  volume  has  been  prepared,  in  which  he  has  taken  active  interest. 
Ch.  George  Gardner,  b.  1842,  March  7;  d.  1860.  Dec.  18.  Stephen  Henry, 
b.  1844.  Jan.  17 ;  
in  the  Union  Army  and  killed  at  Petersburg,  1864,  July  30. 
Fredenck  Hunt,  b.  1847,  Feb.  18;  m.  1873,  July  1,  Kate  G.  Baldwin,  dau.  of 
Francis,  25,  and  is  a  merchant  in  Lowell.  Frank  Wilson,  b.  1849,  April  5; 
m.  Margaretta  Bange.  of  New  York.  John  Nelson,  b.  1851,  July  10; 
m.  1875,  Jan.  13,  Charlotte  Scainmon,  of  Saco,  Me.,  and  has  Fanny,  b.  1875, 
Dec.  30,  and  George  Nelson,  b.  1880,  Jime  21.  He  is  clerk  for  Wason, 
Peirce  &  Co..  Boston.     Charles  Harris,  b.  1853,  July  19;  d.  1854,  Aug.  26. 
25.  Cliarles  Henry,  son  of  Frederic  A.,  22,  b.  1820,  July  20;  m.  1843, 
May  4,  Mary  Bakh\in,  dau.  of  John,  21,  who  d.  1876,  Jan.  2.  Ch.  Mary 
Coggin,  b.  1844,  Nov.  24;  m.  Frederic  Morey.  Clarissa  Baldioin,  b.  1846, 
Jan.  14;  m.  1873,  Nathan  H.  Reed,  of  Bedford.  Frederick  Augustus 
b.  1849,  Aug.  14.  John,  b.  1855.  Nov.  17;  d.  1856,  Sept.  4.  Charles  Winn, 
b.  1860,  Oct.  10.     Lucy  Bahhvin,  b.  1862,  July  11. 
26.  Joseph,  b.  in  Andover,  1782,  Jan.  18;  m.  1806,  Dec.  3, 
Lydia  Parker,  also  of  Andover.  and  sister  of  Mrs.  John  Baldwin,  21.  He 
was  many  years  a  sheriff",  and  removed  to  Lowell  in  1862.  He  d.  1862, 
April  21,  and  his  widow  d.  Aug.  4,  aged  80.  Ch.  Joseph,  b.  1807,  Oct.  11; 
d.  1809,  Jan.  13.  Arabella,  b.  1809,  July  21 ;  m.  1833,  Sept.  15,  Bethuel  T. 
Cross,  from  Orford,  N.  H. ;  
lived  in  Lowell  and  Roxbury,  where  bed.  1877; 
she  now  lives  with  her  brother  Charles.  Joseph  Augustus,  b.  1811,  Oct.  15 ; 
d.  1818,  April  15.  Charles  Addison,  b.  1813,  July  18;  long  a  sea  captain; 
now  lives  in  Hingham.  Isaac  Stillman,  b.  1815,  Oct.  23;  m.  Mary  Ann 
Stearns,  of  Lowell,  where  he  lived;  d.  in  Sacramento,  Cal.,  1850,  March  23. 
3Iary  Jane,  b.  1817,  Sept.  4;  m.  1848,  Dec.  23,  Bethuel  A.  Clark,  from 
Orford,  N.  H. ;  
lived  in  Lowell  and  Hingham  ;  
d.  1877,  Nov.  25.  Harriet, 
b.  1820.  April  29;  m.  1847,  May  12,  Francis  H.  Nourse,  of  Bolton;  Hved  in 
Lowell,  now  in  Winchester.     Charlotte,  b.  1822,  May  2;  d.  1831.  Jan.  7. 
27.  Abigail  m.  1795,  Sept.  23.  William  Barnes,  of  Woburn. 
PARRY,  Josepli,  m.  1771,  Dec.  12.  Hannah  Kemp,  dau.  of  Jason,  6. 
PARSONS,     Dauiel,     ''of     Cape     Ann,"     is     on     tax-list,     1777-8. 
Ch.  Chrtstopher,  bap.  1775,  Oct.  15. 
PASHO,  [often  Patio].  1.  Thomas,  son  of  John,  from  Germany, 
m.  Sarah  Farmer,  dau  of  Jotham,  20.  He  d.  1879.  Oct.  26,  aged  82. 
Ch.  Thomas  m.  1846.  April  2,  Mary  L.  Dodge.  Aaron,  b.  1826,  m.  Miriam 
M.  Dandly,  dau.  of  James,  2.     ./o/i?i.    Joseph. 
2.  Esther  m.  1802,  Dec.  30,  Michael  Dean. 
3.  John  F.,  son  of  Andrew,  and  b.  in  Tewksbury.  m.  1845,  April  22, 
Mary  E.  Bliss,  and  d.  1858,  Aug.  31.  aged  36.  Ch.  Gardner  S.,  b.  1847, 
Sept.  22.     Viola  Bliss,  b.  1852,  Dec.  27;  d.  1858,  Aug.  4. 
PATERSON,  James,  was  b.  in  Scotland.  He  was  captured  by 
Cromwell,  at  Worcester,  1651.  Sept.  3,  and  two  months  later,  embarked  for 
America,  and  arrived  at  (;harlestown.  May,  1652.  Came  to  Billerica,  and 
was  granted  a  6-acre  lot  in  1658.    His  house-lot  was  ''  thirty  and  two  acres 
 - 493 - 
108  PATERSON  —  PATTEN. 
of  land,  be  it  more  or  less,  lying  on  y«  North  side  of  y°  Township,  on  y« 
West  side  of  y^  highway  called  long  street;  bound  by  Jolin  Baldwin, 
south  ;  
Thomas  hubberd.  north  ;  
long  street,  east,  being  twenty-six  pole 
wide  at  y»  end ;  
liy  Concord  river,  west,  tliirty  and  two  pole  wide  at  yt  end, 
upon  a  beavell  line,  an  allowance  of  a  highway  next  y«  river,  according 
to  y«  agreement  about,  as  is  expressed  in  y^  i-eeords  of  y  ■  same,  in  page  1G8. 
of  this  booke."  This  place  included  parts  of  Mr.  Sanborn's  and  of 
Dr.  Pillsbury's.  He  m.  K!G2.  May  2!),  Rebecca  Stevenson,  of  Cambridge. 
He  d.  1701.  .Inly  14.  "■aged  about  08.'"  The  family  disappears  before  17;^0. 
Ch.  Mm/,  1).  I'OGG.  Aug.  22.  Janips,  b.  1G68-9,  Feb.  28;  d.  1G77,  Oct.  3. 
Andrew,  b.  1G72,  April  4;  m.  1G97,  Elizal)eth  Kibber,  of  Charlestown.  and 
had  James,  b.  1707.  He  went  to  sea  and  never  returned.  John.  '2,  b.  1G7.T. 
April  8.  Joseph,  b.  1G77-8.  Jan.  1;  m.  1701.  Sept.  22,  Mary  Goodnow, 
of  Sudbury;  was  a  tailor  in  Watertown;  d.  173G.  Eebecca.  b.  1G80,  July  18. 
Jamea,  b.  iG83.  April  13 ;  m.  1697,  Nov.  8.  his  cousin,  Elizal)eth  Bibbe,  of 
Medford;  d.  in  Groton.  1737,  (Savage).      Jonathan,  b.  1685-G,  Jan.  31. 
2.  John,  son  of  James,  1,  b.  1G7."),  April  8;  m.  1702.  Dec.  29,  Joanna 
Hall,  of  Concord.  Ch.  Kezia.  b.  1703-4,  Feb.  1.  Bebecca.  b.  1705-6, 
Jan.  15.  Hannah,  h,  1710.  July  d.  J/rtr;/,  b.  1713-4.  March  19.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1722-3,  Feb.  24. 
PATTEN.  1.  William,  was  in  Camliridge  as  early  as  lG3o.  He  was 
one  of  ""the  present  inhatiitaiits  of  Shawshin,"  who  signed  the  Cambridge 
agreement,  1654-5,  Feb.  17,  and  also  signs  the  "Whiting  agreement'  in  1,658. 
But  his  name  is  not  on  the  'Rate.'  1G63,  showing  that  he  had  returned  to 
Cambridge,  where  he  d.  1668,  Dec.  10 ;  
his  wife  Mary  d.  1673,  Sept.  20. 
His  grants   are  described  : — 
••1.  One  acre  of  land  *  on  which  his  house  now  standeth;  bounded  by 
ye  countrj^  road,  on  y«  east  ;  
by  land  on-disposed  of  on  y'=  south,  and  six 
pole  frome  the  towne  brook,  on  y«  west  and  on  y«  north. 
2.  *  Seaven  acres  of  land  *  lying  on  y"  east  side  of  y<= former  country 
road,  and  anent  or  right  over  against  the  former  parcel  of  land  ;  
bounded 
by  land  granted  to  John  Marshall,  on  y«  east;  by  East  street,  on  y"  north, 
which  street  was  after  granted  to  goldin  moore  ;  by  land  afterwards 
granted  to  Thomas  Willice,  on  y«  south,  lying  twenty  rods  wide  at  y«  west 
end,  and  about  tifty-six  pole  in  length." 
Ch.  Mary,  b.  in  England.  William,  who  d.  164.5-6,  March  22.  TJiomas.  2, 
1).  1636,  Oct.  Nathanitl.  b.  1639.  Jan.  Sarah  d.  young.  Nathaniel, 
b.  1643.  July  29,  whose  three  sons  had  families  in  Cambridge,  of  which 
.Paige  gives  the  record. 
2.  Thomas,  son  of  William.  1,  b.  1636,  Oct.  His  house  was  west  of 
Long  street,  south  of  the  conunon,  near  the  house  of  Mr.  Francis 
Richardson  ;  
it  was  a  garrison  in  1675.  He  had  also  a  saw-mill.  (Records  1, 
p.  86,  and  John  Rogers"  will,)  near  Pattenville.  He  m.  1662,  April  1, 
Rebecca  Paine,  dau.  of  Thomas,  of  Dedham.  She  d.  1680.  May  19,  and  he 
m.  1686,  May  20.  Sarah  Didson.  widow,  of  Reading.  He  d.  1G89-90, 
Jan.  16.  and  she  m.  Thomas  Richardson.  1.  Ch.  iVanj,  b.  1G64.  Aug.  21. 
Thomas,  3,  b.  1()65-G.  March  22.  Xathaniel,  4,  b.  16GS,  Sept.  14.  William,  5, 
b.  1671,  May  12.  Rebecca,  b.  1674-5,  Jan.  29;  m.  Joseph  Davis.  1.  Sarah, 
b.  1G77,  June  18.  Elizabeth,  b.  1680,  May  8.  Mehittahell,  b.  1686-7,  Feb.  28; 
m.  William  French.  6.     Kendall,  6,  b.  1689,  April  20. 
3.  Thomas,  son  of  Thomas,  2,  b.  1G65-G,  March  22;  m.  1699,  Dec.  21. 
Hannah  Foster,  step-daughter  of  Peter  Bracket.  She  d.  1742,  Aug  18, 
aged  73,  and  Sergt.  Patten  d.  1752.  Sept.  14,  Ch.  Ihomas,  7,  b.  1701, 
Oct.  22.  Nathaniel,  b.  1702-3,  Feb.  1.  John,  8,  b.  1705,  March  29. 
Joseph,  9,  1).  1710,  Sept.  26. 
4.  Nathaniel,  son  of  Thomas,  2,  b.  1G68,  Sept.  14;  m.  1695.  Dec.  6, 
Hannah  Ross.  dau.  of  Thomas,  1.  He.  d.  1718,  April  2.  Ch.  Hannah, 
b.  1705.  April  3;  mother  or  daughter  ;  m.  1726,  May  19.  Joseph  Emerson. 
Nathaniel,  b.  1707,  Sept.  10  m.  ]Mary,  prob.  dau.  of  Enoch  Kidder,  4, 
lived  in  Tewksbury.      They  had  Mary  b.  1728,  April  10;  d.  1734,  June  21. 
 - 494 - 
PATTEN.  109 
Hannah  b.  1729,  Nov.  11.  Jonathan,  b.  1731,  Nov.  26.  Nathaniel,  b.  1733, 
Mart'h  19.  perhaps  m.  17()3,  Nov.  3,  Esther  Shed.  dau.  of  Benjanun,  8,  and 
if  so,  was  tlien  of  "Staft'ord."  WiUiani.  b.  1738,  Marcli  11.  Jonatlian, 
b.    1740.    Nov.   28.     John.  10,  b.  1711.  Oet.  31. 
5.  William,  son  of  Thomas,  3,  b.  1671,  May  12;  ni.  Mary    ,  prob. 
dau.  of  John  Rogers,  2.  She  d.  1716,  May  16,  aged  48,  and  he  m.  1717, 
Elizabeth  Whiting,  widow  of  Samuel,  2,  of  Dunstable.  lie  lived  near  the 
corner;  was  deacon  and  Representative;  d.  at  Cambridge,  of  small-pox, 
while  attending  the  General  Court,  1730,  Oct.  5.  Ch.  William,  b.  1693-4, 
Jan.  24;  d.  May  12.  Thomas.  11,  b.  1694--5.  March  12.  il/rnv/,  b.  1696. 
July  19;  m.  1732,  Sept.  4,  Benjamin  Wood,  of  Dracut.  Txoin  son.i.  h.  and 
d.  1698,  May  20.  Bebecca,  b.  1699,  April  18;  m.  Jacob  Danforth,  7.  Sarah, 
b.  1701,  Dec.  6;  m.  Jacob  Taylor,  of  Concord.  -Elizabeth,  b.  1704-5, 
Jan.  25;  d.  1706,  June  11.  William,  b.  1706,  April  16;  d.  1732,  July  31. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1708-9.  Feb.  18;  m.  Joseph  Tavlor.  3Iehittabel,  b.  1710, 
Aug.  18;  m.  Ralph  Hill,  11. 
6.  Kendall,   son   of  Thomas,   2,  b.  1689,  Api-il20;  m.  Abigail    . 
She  d.  1718,  July  20.  ancthe  m.  Abigail  Kittredge.  dau.  of  John,  2,  and  before 
1729,  Sarah  Kittredge.  dau.  of  Daniel.  4,  who  d.  1737,  Dec.  4.  He  lived  in 
Tewksbury;  d.  1770,  Dec.  14.  Ch.  Kendall,  b.  1713,  Aug.  13;  d.  1714, 
Aug.  3.  Abigail,  b.  1716,  May  7;  m.  Daniel  Shed,  12.  Elizabeth,  b.  and 
d.  1718,  July  20.  Samuel,  b.  1720-1,  Feb.  18;  d.  1753,  Jan.  21.  Sarah, 
b.  1722.  Aug.  20.  Hannah,  b.  1723-4.  March  9;  m.  Josiah  Kidder,  (see  6). 
Mehittabel.  b.  1725,  Sept.  13.  Kendall,  b.  1729,  Feb.  5.  Elizabeth,  b.  1730, 
May  20.  3Iar>j,  b.  1732,  Feb.  11.  Bebecca,  b.  1734-5,  Jan.  11.  Kendall, 
b.  1737,  July  21. 
7.  Thomas,  son  of  Thomas,  3,  b.  1701,  Oct.  22 ;  
m.  Hannah  Kittredge, 
dau.  of  Daniel,  i;  he  d.  1733,  Sept.  16.     Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1732.  April  17. 
8.  Jolrn,  son  of  Thomas,  3,  b.  1705,  March  29;  m.  Elizabeth  Frost, 
dau.  of  Edmond,  4.  He  was  dis.  1753,  to  the  church  in  Shrewsbury. 
Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1743,  July  26.  John,  b.  1744-5,  March  21.  Eiith,  b.  1746, 
Dec.  1 ;  
d.  1749,  July  4.     Jiuth,  b.  1849,  Oct.  5.     Elijah,  b.  1751,  Nov.  21. 
9.  Joseph,  son  of  Thomas.  3,  b.  1710,  Sept.  26;  m.  1734-5,  Jan.  8, 
Susanna  Hill,  dau.  of  Sanniel.  10.  His  name  disappears  from  tax-list  in 
1743.  Ch.  Lucy,  b.  1735,  Dec.  1.  Alice,  b.  1738,  July  3.  Joseph,  b.  1742. 
July  29. 
10.  John,  son  of  Nathaniel,  4,  b.  1711.  Oct.  31 ;  m.  1736.  Feb.  4,  Jane 
Hill,  dau.  of  Joseph,  8.  He  d.  1785,  June  14;  she  d.  1786.  June  11. 
Ch.  John.  12,  b.  1737.  Jan.  22.  Jane,  b.  1739,  Jan.  4;  d.  1764.  Julv  17. 
Hannah,  b.  1741.  Dec.  13;  m.     Kittredge.      Asa,  13,  b.  1746-7.  Feb.  24. 
11.  Thomas,  son  of  William,  5,  b.  1694-5,  March  12;  m.  Miriam 
Stearns,  dau.  of  Isaac,  3.  She  d.  1747,  Sept.  16,  and  he  d.  Oct.  10. 
Ch.  Mary  and  Miriam,  b.  1730.  Dec.  21.  William,  14,  b.  1732,  Sept.  24. 
Thomas,  b.  1734,  April  2.  Sarah,  h.  1735,  Aug.  24;  m.  Timothy 
Danforth.  18.  Mary,  b.  1737,  Sept.  10.  Isaac,  b.  1739,  June  3.  Jonathan, 
b.  1742-3.  Feb.  14.     David,  b.  1745,  Aug.  2. 
12.  John,  sou  of  John.  10,  b.  1737,  Jan.  22;  m.  1707,  May  26,  Sarah 
Baldwin,  dau.  of  Jonathan,  7.  She  d.  1778.  Sept.  15,  and  he  m.  Sarah 
Hosley,  widow  of  Aaron,  of  Pepperell,  and  dau.  of  Thomas,  2.  He  d. 
1815,  Feb.  27.  and  she  d.  1822,  July  14.  Ch.  John,  b.  1768,  April  23; 
d.  May  10.  John,  15,  b.  1770,  Feb.  3.  Sarah,  b.  1773,  Nov.  20;  m.  Zadoc 
Allen,  5.  Hannah,  b.  1778,  July  26.  Jane,  b.  1781,  July  8;  m.  Joseph 
Allen.  6.     Hosley,  b.  1784,  April  4;  d. 
13.  Asa,  son  of  John,  10,  b.  1746-7,  Feb.  24;  m.  1781.  April  3, 
Hannah  Baldwin,  dau.  of  David,  10.  She  d.  1784.  Feb.  28.  He  d.  1817, 
Oct.  23.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1782,  March  3 ;  m.  Theophilus  Manning,  15. 
Polly,  b.  1784.  Feb.  8,  also  m.  Mr.  Manning. 
14.  William,  son  of  Thomas,  11,  b.  1732,  Sept.  24;  m.  1761,  June  16, 
Rebecca  Brown,  dau.  of  Josiah,  5.  He  d.  1801,  Sept.  21.  She  d.  1815, 
Jan.  4.      Ch.   Bebecca,   b.   1762,   Jan.   1.      Elizabeth,  bap.  1763,  April  24. 
 - 495 - 
110  PATTEN  —  PEABODY. 
William,  b.  1763,  Dec.  5.  Josiah^  b.  1765,  Nov.  7.  Jonathan^  b.  1767, 
Nov.  23.  Sarah,  b.  1769,  Nov.  5.  Jeremiah,  16,  b.  1771,  Oct.  21.  Julia, 
h.  1773,  Dec.  4;  d.  1784,  Jan.  26.  3faKy,  b.  1776,  Jan.  23,  and  prob.  m.  1798, 
April  18,  James  Hutchinson;  d.  1803,  Nov.  4.  Elizabeth,  b.  1778,  March  2; 
d.  1813,  March  8.     Thomas,  b.  1781,  Jan.  31.     David,  b.  1783,  June  27. 
16.  John,  son  of  John,  12,  b.  1770,  Feb.  3 ;  m.'  1794.  May  8,  Sally 
Hosley,  dau.  of  Aaron,  (see  2).  She  d.  1801,  July  22,  aged  28,  and  he  m. 
1802,  Nov.  4.  Lucy  Bowman,  dau.  of  Abel,  2.  He  d.  1805,  Jan.  6.  She 
d.  1822,  Nov.  3.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1795,  June  4;  m.  James  Dandley,  2.  John, 
b.  1797,  May  26.  Aaron  Hosley,  17,  b.  1799,  Feb.  4.  Asa,  b.  1801,  July  22. 
Lucy.  b.  1803,  June  25;  m.  Andrew  Barr,  of  Lowell.  Abel,  b.  1805,  May  1; 
grad.  D.  C,  1827,  and  Andover  Theo.  Seni..  1830;  ordained.  1832,  Feb.  7; 
installed.  Carlisle,  1833,  May  22 ;  dis.  1835.  Sept.  29 ;  
installed  Monument 
church.  Sandwich.  1835.  Dec.  16;  dis.  1838.  Aug.;  preached  in  Hanson, 
Mass.,  Jamaica.  Wilmington.  Marlboro  and  Pittsfield,  Vt.,  Burlington. 
Mass..  and  Alstead,  N.  H. ;  without  charge,  in  Billerica,  until  death,  1864, 
Feb.  23. 
16.  Jeremiah,  son  of  William,  14,  b.  1771,  Oct.  21;  m.  Hannah 
Davis,  dau.  of  Benjamin,  4.  He  was  deacon;  d.  1815,  Jan.  21.  Ch.  Abiqail 
Field,  b.  1809.  March  11.  Julia  Ann,  b.  1811.  Feb.  7.  Elizabeth,  b.  1813, 
Feb.  12;  d.  1818.  March  27.     Hannah,  b.  1815,  March  16. 
17.  Aaron  Hosley,  son  of  John.  15,  b.  1799.  Feb.  4;  m.  1823.  Nov.  25, 
Eliza  Andrews,  of  Boston.  He  was  deacon  of  the  Congregational  church; 
d.  1866.  Sept.  11.  His  widow  d.  1873.  Feb.  23.  aged  72.  Ch.  William 
Henry,  18,  b.  1825.  July  15.  Azel  Wilder,  b.  1827.  Oct.  20;  lives  in  Neenah, 
Wis.  Mary  Jane,  b.  1829,  Sept.  29;  m.  Dea.  Samuel  H.  King.  Aaron 
Hosley,  b.  1832.  Aug.  28;  m.  Sarah  D.  Kimball;  lives  at  Ayer.  Lyman 
Beecher,  b.  1835,  Feb.  18;  lives  in  Neenah,  VV'is.  Thomas,  b.  1838, 
Aug.  6;  ni.  1865,  Jan.  26.  Fannie  J.  Proctor,  of  Chelmsford.  Asa  John, 
b.    1844,   Mav  25;  d.   at  Chattanooga,    1863.  Oct.   31. 
18.  Wiiliam  Henry,  son  of  Aaron  IL,  17,  b.  1825.  July  15;  m.  1847, 
Oct.  12.  Al)by  E.  Jaques,  of  Tewksbury,  Ch.  Abby  Frances  d.  young. 
William  Thorndike,  b.  1857.  Jan.  19. 
PEABODY,  Nathaniel,  m.  d..  an  eminent  physician  in  Salem  and 
Boston;  was  b.  in  Topsfield,  Mass.,  1774,  March  30.  and  d.  in  Perth  Amboy, 
N.  J.,  18.55,  Jan.  1.  His  early  life  was  in  New  Boston,  N.  H.,  and  he  grad. 
D.  C,  1800.  He  m.  1802.  Nov.  2,  Elizabeth  Palmer,  preceptress  of  Andover 
Academy,  and  the  first  preceptress  of  any  academy  ever  elected  in 
Massachusetts.  In  1803,  he  came  to  Billerica  to  study  his  profession,  and 
here  his  daughter  Elizabeth  Palmer,  was  b.  1804,  May  16.  Other 
ch.  were:  3Iary  Tyler,  b.  in  Cambridge,  1806,  Nov.  16;  ni.  Horace  Mann. 
Sophia  Amelia,  b.  in  Salem,  1809.  Sept.  21 ;  m.  Nathaniel  Hawthorne. 
Nathaniel  Cranch.  b.  1811,  Dec.  11;  lives  in  Concord.  George  Francis, 
b.  1813.  Oct.  10;  d.  1839.  Nov.  Wellington,  b.  1816.  Dec.  16;  d."  1836,  Oct. 
Catherine  Pntnam,  b.  1819,  April  26 ;  
d.     Mrs.  Peabody  d.  1855,  Jan. 
IMiss  Elizabeth  P.  Peabody  taught  a  private  school  in  Lancaster. 
1820-2;  Boston.  1823;  Hallowell.  Me..  1823-4;  Brookline.  Mass.,  with  her 
sister  Mary,  1825  ;  and  in  Boston,  1826-32.  In  later  years,  she  has  often 
taught  classes  in  history  and  literarature  in  various  schools,  but  has  been 
especially  active  in  literary  labors.  She  published  in  1828,  Self  Education, 
a  transhition  from  the  French  of  DeGerando.  The  same  year  she  edited 
The  Casket,  which  contained  a  free  rendering  for  children  of  Fouquet's 
Undine,  and  also  published  a  small  English  Grammar,  anonymously. 
First  Steps  to  History  ;  Key  to  Hebrew  History;  Key  to  Grecian  and  Roman 
History;  Legend  of  St.  George,  and  The  Record  of  a  School  soon  followed. 
Of  the  last,  a  revised  edition  was  issued  in  1872.  She  also  wrote  for  the 
Christian  Examiner,  Democratic  Review,  the  Dial,  and  other  magazines. 
From  1840  to  1850,  she  kept  a  circulating  library  on  West  street,  Boston,  in 
connection  with  a  school,  for  a  part  of  the  time,  and  in  1848.  edited 
Esthetic  Papers,  writing  two  articles  and  one  poem  for  them.     In  1851-3, 
 - 496 - 
PEABOD  Y  —  PEMBERTON.  1 1 1 
she  published  Bems'  Chronological  Charts,  and  during  Kossuth's  visit  to 
this  country,  slie  wrote  The  Crimes  of  the  House  of  Austria.  After  her 
fatlier's  death,  she  remained  at  Pertli  Amboy  two  years  in  the  celebrated 
school  of  Theodore  Weld,  then  returned  to  Boston  ;  
has  resided  in  Concord, 
1859-66,  and  since  1878,  with  her  brother  Nathaniel;  from  1866-78,  her 
home  was  in  Cambridge.  In  1856,  she  published  a  School  History  of  the 
United  States,  and  in  1866,  she  wrote  and  delivei-ed  in  several  places  a 
course  of  20  lectures  on  Pre-Christian  History ;  and  the  years  1867-8.  were 
spent  in  Europe.  In  1859,  she  became  interested  in  Froebel's  system  of 
primary  education,  and  in  1860,  she  undertook  in  Boston  a  Kindergarten 
school.  The  farther  study  of  this  system  was  the  special  object  of  her 
visit  to  Europe.  On  her  return  in  1869.  she  published  a  Kindergarten 
Guide,  revision  of  a  work  written  in  1861.  This  was  followed  by  Lectures 
on  the  same  important  subject  and  l)y  a  primer  of  Eeading  and  Drawing, 
called  After  Kindergarten.  What  f  which  the  author  thinks  one  of  her 
most  important  books.  And  she  is  publishing  in  1880,  Kindergarten  papers 
in  Dr.  Barnard's  Journal  of  Education.  Some  years  of  Miss  Peabody's 
early  life  were  spent  in  the  family  of  Dr.  Channing  and  she  has  published 
this  year,  lieminiscences  of  Dr.  Channing,  one  of  the  most  interesting  and 
valuable  contributions  to  the  centennial  memorial  of  that  great  man.  The 
name  of  this  daughter  of  Billerica  is  sure  of  a  very  honorable  place  in  the 
educational  history  of  our  country. 
PEACOCK,  i.  Mary  m.  Nathaniel  Kichardson,  5,  Hannah,  dau. 
of  Elizabeth,  deceased,  was  indentured  to  Thomas  Boss,  by  the  Selectmen, 
1713-4.  March  1.  - 
2.  Saninel,  perhaps  brother  of  Hannah,  m.  1718-9,  Feb.  5.  Mary 
Kittredge,  dau.  of  Daniel,  4.  His  name  disappears  Avith  the  Tewksbury 
list  in  1735.  Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1719,  Nov.  13.  William,  b.  1721.  April  13. 
3Iary,  b.  1722-3,  March  19.  Daniel,  b.  1724-5.  March  7.  Thomas,  b.  1726, 
Nov.  28. 
PEARSON.  1.  James  is  on  tax-list.  1762-4.  Wife  Bathshua. 
Ch.  Rebeckah.  b.  1762,  Oct.  29.     James,  bap.  1765,  March  31. 
2.  Caleb  and  wife  Elizabeth.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  bap.  1812,  Aug.  16. 
Caleb,  bap.  1815.  Aug.  20. 
PEMBERTON,  James,  perhaps  son  of  James,  of  Maiden,  or  John, 
of  Tewksbury.  received  adult  baptism.  1755,  March  16;  m.  Sarah  Dutton, 
prob.  dau.  of  Thomas,  9,  who  d.  in  Westford.  1741.  March  18.  She  d.  1760, 
Dec.  29.  and  he  m.  Rachel  Spalding,  dau.  of  Leonard,  of  Concord,  (583, 
Spalding  Memorial).  Ch.  James,  b.  1760,  Dec.  28.  Sarah,  b.  1764,  June  11. 
Molley.  h.  1766.  Aug.  1. 
2.  Ebenezer  was  the  nephew  of  Rev.  Ebenezer  Pemberton.  d.  d.. 
whose  father,  Ebenezer.  grad.  H.  C.  1691,  and  was  the  eminent  pastor  of 
the  Old  South  Church,  Boston,  from  1700,  Aug.  28,  until  his  death,  1717, 
Feb.  13.  The  son  grad.  H.  C.  1721  ;  
became  pastor  of  the  Wall  street 
church,  in  New  York,  1727,  Aug.  9;  of  the  new  brick  church  in  Boston, 
1754,  March  6.  and  remained  in  office  until  his  death,  1777.  Sept.  15.  He 
was  a  leading  divine  in  *^he  Presbyterian  church,  while  in  New  York,  and 
one  of  the  few  warm  friends  of  Whitefleld  there  ;  a  trustee  of  the  College 
of  NeAv  Jersey.  Several  of  his  sermons  were  published.  Our  Ebenezer 
was  educated  by  his  uncle,  and  grad.  at  N.  J.  C,  1765.  He  had  the 
valedectory  at  graduation,  and  was  tutor  at  Princeton.  1769.  His  uncle 
desired  that  he  should  enter  the  ministry  and  in  his  will  bequeathed  his 
libi'ary  to  him  on  condition  of  his  doing  so.  If  he  failed  to  comply,  it  was 
given  to  New  Jersey  College,  because  Harvard  ''hath  a  splendid  library" 
and  did  not  need  it.  Mr.  Pemberton  was  a  fine  speaker,  and  "in  taking  the 
path  he  did,  he  robbed  the  pulpit  of  what  seemed  to  be  destined  for  one  of 
its  brightest  ornaments  ; "  but  he  adhered  to  his  chosen  vocation,  and  his 
life  was  devoted  to  classical  instruction.  Robeit  Troup  and  Col.  Burr 
were  among  his  pupils.  He  spent  some  years  in  Plainfield,  Conn.,  and 
in   1786,   succeeded  Dr.  Pearson  as  Principal    of    Phillips    Academy   at 
 - 497 - 
112  PEMBERTON— POLLARD. 
Andover.  and  during  the  eight  years  following  did  much  to  impart  to  that 
celel)rated  scliool  the  high  character  it  has  long  borne.  From  Andover,  he 
came  to  Billerica,  and  for  about  20  years  sustained  a  private  Academy  in 
which  many  young  men  were  prepared  for  college.  His  last  years  wei'e 
spent  in  Boston,  where  he  d.  1835,  June  25,  aged  89.  Yale,  Dartmouth  and 
Plarvard  C^olleges  gave' him  tlie  honorary  degree  of  A.  3i.,  and  Alleghany 
College,  that  of  ll  d..  in  1817.  He  was  for  some  years  primate  of  the 
Boston  Association  of  Teachers,  by  whom  he  was  highly  esteemed. 
A  good  notice  of  Dr.  P.  may  be  found  in  Spragiie's  Annals.  Vol.  II,  p.  415, 
written  by  Kev.  Ephraim  Abbot,  who  says  he  "was  a  little  above  the 
medium  size,  of  dignified  appearance;  in  manners,  a  gentleman  of  the 
old  school  ;  in  conversation,  he  was  pleasant,  and  had  a  fund  of  anecdote 
and  useful  remark;  his  ])assions  were  quick  and  strong,  but  were  well 
controlled;  his  moral  and  religious  feelings  warm,  and  his  emotions 
sometimes  almost  overpowering."  He  is  mentioned  in  the  Life  of  Charles 
Sumiior  as  the  instructor  of  his  father,  and  in  the  Life  of  Josiah  Quincy, 
Mr.  Edmond  Quincy  says  of  Dr.  P..  "I  well  remember  the  handsome 
old  man.  and  the  beautiful  picture  of  serene  and  honorable  age  wliich  he 
presented,  seeming  in  old  world  courtesy  and  costume  to  have  stepped 
out  of  the  last  centurjr  into  this  ;  and  the  pride  ^^ith  which  he  spoke  of 
the  eminent  men  who  had  been  his  pupils,  and  especially  of  his  having 
ottered  two  Presidents.  Kirkland  and  Quincy,  to  Harvard."  While  in 
AndovL'r,  he  lived  w'th  a  sister,  his  only  surviving  relative.  After  her 
death,  he  m.  Miss  WL'twell,  who  d.  before  him,  and  had  three  ch.  who 
survived  him.  Cli.  bap.  hei'e:  3Iary  Elizabeth  BebeccaEoi/nh  17^J7,  Oct.  8. 
William    Whittoell.  1798,  Dec.  16.       Eudosia  Caroline.  1799.  Xov.  3. 
PERRUM,  Anna,  dau.  of  John,  of  Chelmsford,  d.  1694.  April  11. 
PERRY,  Jeremiah,  b.  1759,  Aug.  23.    James  is  on  tax-list.  1760. 
PHELPS,  John,  of  Lancaster,  m.  1766,  July  30,  Achsah  Whiting,  dau. 
of  Samuel.  6. 
PINKERTON,  James,  and  Avife  Susan.  Ch.  James  Albert,  b.  1845, 
Aug.  19. 
PLUM,  Thomas,  an  inhabitant  in  1686,  from  whom  the  constable 
could  not  collect  dues. 
POLL.IRD.  1.  Thomas  was  son  of  William,  of  Coventry.  England. 
His  mother  was  Mary  Farmer,  sister  of  our  Edward,  1.  He  came  to 
Billerica  about  1092;  purchased  the  place  and  'right'  whicli  had  been 
William  Hale's,  near  the  fordway,  and  received  in  1708,  a  grant  of  30  acres 
batween  tlie  roa  1  to  the  fordway  and  the  road  which  turns  east  from  it. 
He  ni.  1092,  Nov..  his  cousin.  Sarah  Farqier,  dau.  of  Edward,  1.  He 
d.  1724.  April  4.  She  d.  1725.  May  3.  Ch.  Mary.  b.  1693.  Aug.  20. 
Edward.  2,  b.  1694,  Nov.  4.  Barbara,  b.  1095.  Dae.  6;  m.  1733-4,  Feb.  13, 
Joseph  Peirce.  (of  Chelmsford).  Thomas,  b.  1696-7,  Feb.  16;  settled  in 
Dunstable.  ir<7/iVf??i,  b.  1698,  Aug.  3.  Jo/ui.  3,  b.l099,  Sept.  1.  Sarah, 
b.  1700-1.  Feb.  16;  d.  March  3.  Joseph,  b.  1702.  May  3;  m.  Abigail  Hill, 
dau.  of  Nathaniel,  7.  He  lived  in  Nottingham  West,  Westford  and  New 
Ipswich,  where  he  d.  about  1780.  Two  sons.  Joseph,  b.  1737.  March  4,  and 
Solomon.  Joseph  m.  Ruth  Burge,  of  New  Ipswich,  and  lived  there  until 
1786,  when  he  went  to  Keene.  He  d.  1826.  Aug..  in  Plymouth,  Vt..  where 
his  son  Moses  settled  soon  after  marriage,  1796,  Jan.  4,  and  d.  1843, 
Sept.  7,  aged  71.  Hon.  James  A.  Pollard,  of  Windsor,  Vt.,  for  many  years 
Superintendent  of  tlie  Vermont  State  Prison,  is  his  son.  Oliver,  b.  1703, 
July  23;  m.  1735-6,  Feb.  17,  Hannah  Hill,  sister  of  his  brother's  wife; 
lived  in  Bedford.  Sarah,  b.  1704,  Dec.  21;  m.  Richard  Hall,  1. 
Nathaniel,  4,  b.  1706,  Oct.  18.  James,  b.  1708.  Oct.  5;  m.  1734,  Dec.  17, 
Abigail  Chamberlain,  of  Chelmsford,  and  lived  in  Westford;  ''a  man  of 
wealth  and  intelligence;"  Avas  living,  1779.  Walter,  b.  1709,  Dec.  28; 
m.  1735,  Sept.  9,  Dorothy  Danforth,  dau.  of  Samuel,  6.  Elizabeth, 
b,  1712-3,  March  5.     Benjamin,  b.  1715,  Aug.  18;  -'y^  tenth  son." 
 - 498 - 
POLLARD.  113 
2.  Edward,  son  of  Thomas,  1,  b.  1694.  Nov.  4;  m.  1723,  Oct.  21, 
Jutleth  Hazeltiu^.  dan.  of  8aani?l.  He  d.  1743.  and  she  m.  Nicholas 
8pi-aki'..  2.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  172'5.  Aug.  5;  m.  Benjamhi  Baldwin.  12.  Jndeth. 
b.  1728,  Jan3  27;  ni.  Sainual  Sprake,  5.  Elizabeth,  b.  1730.  April  7; 
d.  1739,  Sept.  25.  Edward,  5,  b.  1733,  May  12.  Abigail,  b.  1736,  May  2; 
ni.  Thomas  Baldwin,  13. 
3.  John,  son  of  Thomas,  1,  b.  1699.  Sept.  1;  m.  172S,  Sept.  27,  Mary 
Stearns,'  dau.  of  Isaac.  3.  She  d.  1738.  Aug-.  18,  and  he  m.  1741,  Sept.  14, 
Alice  Stearns,  widow  of  Isaac.  7.  She  d.  1756.  Nov.  4,  and  he  m.  1762, 
March  2fj.  Susannah  Baldwin,  (see  8).  He  d.  1772,  Nov.  11.  Ch.  John.  6, 
b.  1729.  June  24.  Jonathan,  7,  b.  1731.  3Iay  13.  Solomon.  8,  b.  1732, 
Oct.  15.  3Iar!/.  b.  1734.  April  1 ;  d.  1736,  May  25.  Asa,  b.  1735.  Nov.  15 ; 
he  was  the  first  soldier  killed  at  Bunker  Hill.  Mary.  b.  1737,  May  7; 
ni.  1763,  Feb.  15,  Eliphaz  Wyman,  of  W'oburn.  She  d.  before  1772,  leaving 
son  Isaac.  Lnoj,  b.  1742.  Aug.  27:  ni.  Ephraim  Kidder,  15.  Blioda, 
b.  1744.  Sept.  5 ;  d.  1745,  Sept.  27.     Thaddeus,  b.  1746,  Aug.  7. 
4.  Nathaniel,   son  of  Thomas,    1,  b.   1706,    Oct.    f8;  m.   Mary   . 
Ch.  3Iar>j,  b.  1736.  D?c.  16.  Nathaniel,  b.  1739.  June  20.  Benjamin,  9, 
b.  1741.  Feb.  16.  Sarah,  b.  1744.  July  1.  Jonathan,  b.  1747,  Sept.  20. 
Hannah  and  Joanna,  bap.  1748-9,  Jan.  29;  Hjmnah  m.  1771.  July  26, 
William  Tay,  of  Woburn.  Joanna  m.  1770,  Dec.  20,  Daniel  Johnson,  of 
Woburn. 
5.  Edward,  son  of  Edward,  2,  b.  1733.  Mjv  3i2  ;  m.  1755.  June  4, 
Abigail  Prince,  dau.  of  Jonathan.  He  d.  1814,  Sn]i*.  11.  Ch.  Edward, 
b.  1756,  April  11 ;  lived  in  K3^egate  and  Barnat.  Vt.  Abir/ail.  b.  1757, 
Sept.  1 ;  m.  Asa  Danfoith,  27.  Jonathan  JF^rince,  10,  b.  1759,  Aug.  16. 
Lurif.  b.  1761,  June  18;  m.  AVillinm  Danforth.  {see  17).  *S'ffra/i,  b."l763. 
Sept.  15;  m.  John  Rogers,  13.  Jeremiah,  b.  1765.  Aug.  8;  m.  1792,  Jan.  3, 
Sarah  French,  dau.  of  John,  11,  and  settled  in  Grafton,  Vt.,  where  he  had 
ch.  Jeremiah.  Abigail,  Lucy,  Paulina  and  Freeman.  William,  11,  b.  1768, 
July  14. 
G.  John,  son  of  John,  3,  b.  1729,  June  24;  m.  1748.  Feb.  20,  Sarah 
Dean,  dau.  of  Ebenezer,  2.  He  prob.  lived  in  Notting-ham  West,  [Hudson]. 
Ch.  Joel,  b.  1749,  Mav  15. 
7.  Jonathan,  son  of  John,  3,  b.  1731,  May  13;  m.  1758,  March  30, 
Olive  Whiting,  dau.  of  Oliver,  4.  His  estate  was  settled  in  1806.  Ch..  three 
sons  b.  and  d.  nameless.  Olive,  b.  1764.  Nov.  7.  Jonathan,  b.  1766,  Feb.  2; 
d.  Feb.  13.  Olive,  h.  1767,  July  11 ;  
d.  July  16.  Susanna,  b.  1768,  Oct.  30; 
m.  WiUiam  Rogers.  16.  Olive,  b.  1770.  Sept.  11;  m.  Thomas  Rogers,  17, 
Jonathan,  h.  1775.  June  28;  d.  Sejjt,  5. 
8.  Solomon,  son  of  John,  3,  b.  1732,  Oct.  15;  m.  1755,  Dec.  11, 
Hannah  Danforth.  dau.  of  Capt.  Jacob.  7.  Will  proved  1803,  Oct.  5.  His 
house,  next  to  the  Howe  school,  was  a  tavern  in  the  Revolution. 
Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1756,  Oct.  30;  m.  1774,  Feb.  21,  Samuel  Russ.  2.  Solomon, 
h.  1758.  July  15.  Aliee,  b.  1760,  May  3;  m.  1780,  March  12,  Samuel 
Bridge,  3.  Isaac,  b.  1763,  May  31;  d.  1769,  July  27.  Mary,  b.  1766, 
May  13;  m.  Andrew  Bowers,  (see  3).  Isaac,  l2,  b.  1770,  June  27. 
Francis,  13,  b.  1772,  Dec.  12. 
9.  Benjamin,  son  of  Nathaniel.  4,  b.  1741,  Feb.  16 ;  m.  1768,  Sept.  15, 
Susannah  Tay,  of  Woburn.  Ch.  Benjamin,  b.  1769.  July  16.  Nathaniel, 
b.  1771.  March  5.  Susanna,  b.  1773,  Oct.  8.  Betty,  b.  1775,  Nov.  26. 
Jonathan,  b.  1777,  Dec.  3.  Rebecca  and  Betsey,  b.  1780,  Aug.  8.  Patty. 
b.  1784,  April  12. 
10.  Jonathan  Prince,  son  of  Edward,  5,  b.  1759.  Aug.  16;  m.  1786, 
Feb.  15,  Hannah  Lufkin.  She  d.  1820,  Dec.  23;he  d.  1823,  Nov.  27. 
Ch.  John,  b.  1787,  Jan.  9;  ni.  1812,  Jan.  28,  Betsey  Maynard,  and  d.  1835, 
Aug.  23.  He  removed  to  Lisbon  and  to  Brunswick,  Me.  Porter,  b.  1788, 
July  7;  d.  1795,  July  1.  Georr/e,  b.  1790.  March  14;  lived  in  Maine; 
m.  1820.  June  25,  Rebecca  Punchard,  and  1826,  Oct.  26,  Hannah  Adams. 
He  d.  1849,  Jan.  1.    He  had  ch.,  Eliza  P.  m.  Michael  Grush,  of  Salem. 
 - 499 - 
114  POLLARD— PRESTON. 
EUpq  TJ.  ni.  Simeon  Flint,  of  S.-ilcin.  ITannah  lives  in  Boston,  SaraJi  A. 
nil.  K.  A.  McKeiizie.  of  Salem.  IJev.  (ieorge  Adams,  b.  in  Hallowell.  Me., 
1830.  Aug".  18;  urad.  B.  ('..  1851.  and  Baiii^or  Theo.  Sem.,  1854;  ordained, 
1855,  Sept.  2i!,  and  m.  Oct.  31.  Mary  H(deu  Worcester,  dau.  of  Jonathan  F., 
and  <;T.-dait.  of  Kev.  Dr.  Samuel  Wwcestev,  of  Salem;  was  a  missionary 
of  the  A.  B.  C.  F.  M..  in  Asiatic  Turkey.  185(ll-18(i7;  stationed  at  Arabkir 
andErzroom;  lias  supplied  churches  in  ilicliisian.  at  Cooper.  Glen  Arbor, 
and  Alpine  atwi  WaUvci-.  and  now  lives  in  (iraml  Rai)ids,  preaching  neai" 
by;  has  six  children.  j\Iary  C  m.  Willard  Leonard,  of  Oakland,  Cal.,  and 
Oiarles  P.  d.  in  Marysville.  (al.  Jonathdn,  b.  17!i)2,  ^larch  '20;  m.  Bebecca 
Simpsou;  d.  1830.  Feb.  2.  He  lived  in  Tevvksbury  and  Brnnswick,  Me. 
Charles,  b.  17V)4.  Dec.  18;  ni.  and  lives  in  Bradford.  3[e.  Porter,  b.  1796, 
Oct.  1&;  rn.  and  lives  in  Lisbon,  Me.  Hannah,  b,  1800,  July  25;  m.  1818, 
Aug.   2.   Joseph    Park;  lived   in   Lisbon,   Me. 
"11.  IVilliam,  son  of  Edward.  5,  1).  1768,  Jnly  14;  m.  1800,  March  9, 
Arethusa  Manning,  dau.  of  William.  11.  She  d.  1826,  Se])t.  21,  and  he  d. 
1848,  Arig-.  23.  ("h.  William.  14,  b.  1800.  Nov.  18.  Arethnm,  b.  1803, 
April  G;  m.  1821).  March  31.  Nathaniel  Cutler,  of  Burlington;  d.  1838. 
Elmira,  b.  1805,  June  13;  d.  1871.  Oct.  17.  Louisa,  b.  1810.  May  23; 
in.  Dudley  Foster,  1&.     Fi-ancis  Banfurth,  b.  1811,  Nov.  24;  d.  1822.  Oct. 
12.  Isaae,  son  of  Solomon.  8,  b.  1770,  June  27;  in.  1801,  Feb.  12, 
Abigail  Eichardson.  dau.  of  Josiah.  15.  Ch.  .Tosiah,  b.  1802.  Jan.  23. 
Ahiqail  GU/sson,  b.  1803.,  Oct.  15;  d.  Nov.  8.  WiUiam  Pitt  Puinam,  b.  1805, 
Feb.  4.     Alexander,  b.  1807,  April  21.     Slarij,  b.  1815,  Jan.  21. 
13.  FranciSy  son  of  Capt.  Solomon,  8,  b.  1772,  Dec.  12;  m.  1805, 
Nov.  28,  Fiances  Eidiardson,  dau.  of  Josiah,  15.  Ch.  Andrew  II.,  who 
d.  1848,  Aug.  21,  aged  41. 
14-.  William,  son  of  William,  11.  b.  1800,  Nov.  18 ;  
m.  Sarah  Pollard, 
dau.  of  Edward,  of  Rvegate.  Vt.,  (see  5).  She  d.  1849,  Aug.  27,  aged  37. 
Ch.  Sarah  Arethnsa.  b."l844.  Oct.  24. 
POOK,  Thomas.    Ch.  Charles  Lee  bap.  1776,  Jan.  28. 
POULTER,  Jdin,.  was  from  Raleigh.  Essex;  brother  of  Elizabeth, 
who  m.  Jonathan  Danforth.  He  bought  in  1658,  of  Ralph  Hill,  jr.,  an 
8-acre  right,  with  house-lot,  '"twenty  and  nine  acres,  be  it  more  or  less, 
lying  partly  on  the  township,  and  partly  on  the  comans  ;  it  is  bounded  by 
golden  more  on  the  west  ;  by  John  Trull  on  y^  nortli  ;  by  ye  comans 
and  East  street,  east;  and  by  East  street  on  y«  south."  East  street  was 
changed  in  1660,  to  run  across  the  center  of  this  lot,  and  the  I.  G.  Kimball 
place  now  inchides,  on  both  sides  of  the  roa»d,  the  larger  part  of  this 
Poulter  purchase.  On  the  alarm  of  King  Philip's  War,  1675,  this  family 
retreated  to  Medford,  and  he  d.  there  1676,  Sept.  18.  There  is  no  evidence 
that  the  family  returned,  and  in  1693.  hi»  sons  John  and  Jonathan,  sold  the 
place  to  Joseph  Davies.  He  m.  1662,  Dec.  29,  Rachel  Eliot,  dau.  of  Francis, 
of  Braintree.  who  was  b.  1643.  Oct.  26,  and  m.  2d,  Dea.  John  Wliitniore, 
of  Medford.  Ch.  3Ianj.  b.  1665,  May  9.  John,  b.  1666,  Dec.  23.  Jonathan, 
b.  1668-9,  Jan.  25,  Bachel,  h.  1670-1.  March  14.  Banah.  b.  1672-3, 
March  4.  Joseph,  b.  1674-5,  Feb.  15;  d.  March  27.  Benoni  and  Abialy 
b.  1676,  Sei)t.  18. 
PRESO^,  Samuel,  and  Bnget  Gray,  both  of  ^\llmiugton,  m.  1758, 
June  22. 
PRESTON,  Marshall,  Esq.,  son  of  Dr.  Amariah  Pre-ston,  of  Bedford, 
wash.  1792,  June  5.  [Hist,  of  Lexington'].  He  read  law  Avith  his  uncle, 
Warren  Preston,  and  was  admitted  to  the  bar  in  Augusta,  Me.;  soon  came 
to  Billerica.  and  practised  his  profession  until  1849,  when  he  removed  to 
Lexington,  and  d.  there,  1874,  Nov.  2.  He  was  long  town-clerk  and 
post-master;  an  influential  and  useful  citizen;  assistant  clerk  of  the  Courts 
in  ^Middlesex  county  until  1863.  He  m.  1824,  Feb.  12.  Maria  Parker,  dau. 
of  John,  17.  Ch.  Georr/e  Henry,  b.  1825,  June  6;  m.  1850,  Jan.  1,  Catherine 
R.  Faulkner,  dau.  of  .James  R.,  2.  He  grad.  H.  C,  1846,  and  was  a  lawver 
in  Boston;  d.  1868,  May  29.  S^isan  Crosby,  b.  1831,  Sept.  21;  d.  18*51, 
Nov.  25. 
 - 500 - 
PUTNAM  —  R  ANLETT.  1 1 5 
FRIJfCE,  JanathaH,  "of  S:tleni,"  m.  x\bigail  Rogrprf?.  dan.  of 
Saninol,  7.     Cli.  Ahiqail.  h.  1731.  Sept.  17;  m.  Edward  Pollard,  5, 
PRITCHARD,  Peiiey  P.  and  wife  Ann.  Ch.  Abraham,  b.  1800, 
li^pt.  17. 
PUTNAM.  1.  Seth  was  the  son  of  Thomas,  of  Danvers.  John 
Putnam  was  the  immigTant  ancestor,  who,  with  wife  Pliscilla,  came  fi'om 
Aston  Ahl)ofs.  Biieks  county,  Engiand.  hi  KUO.  to  Salem.  Three  sons 
came  with  him,  lliomas.  b.  about  1618.  the  gTanlfather  of  our  Seth,  and 
of  Gen.  Israel;  Nathaniel,  b.  about  1621,  grandfather  of  Israel,  2,  and 
John,  b.  about  1630.  Setli  was  b.  1605,  May.  and  was  "of  Topsfiekl," 
1710,  Maivli  21,  when  he  biiught  of  Samuel  Walker,  for  £200,  house-lot 
and  60  acres  land  here.  Ills  place  beg-;in  at  Shawshin  biidge,  and  was 
bounded  bj'-  the  nver,  west,  and  Hugh  I>it^on,  south,  whose  line  could  not 
have  been  far  from  the  hig-hway  to  Wobm-n.  He  lived  here  2.5  years,  and 
then  became  a  gi-antee  of  No.  4,  or  Clmrlestown,  N.  H.,  and  with  his 
family,  was  among  the  pioneere  of  that  new  settlement,  wiiere  he  d.  1775, 
Nov.  30.  His  wife.  Ruth,  d.  1785,  Feb.  1,  aged  92.  Ch.  Ebenezer,  b.  1719, 
Aug'.  8 ;  was  in  the  militaiy  ser\ice  at  Fort  D'ummer.  1740.  and  a  leading 
citizen  of  Charlestowaj,  N.  H.  His  wife  was  Mai-y,  and  he  had  14  ch.^ 
d.  1782,  Feb.  2.  Ratlu  b.  1720.  Aug.  11;  m.  1746,  Oct.  3,  Peter  Labaree, 
of  Sitlem.  wiio  also  went  to  Cllarlesto\\^l;  was  taken  captive  by  the  Indians 
in  1754;  made  a  brave  escape,  and  became  an  active  man  in  towTb.  Among 
their  descendants  are  Rev.  Benjamin  Labaree,  d.  d.,  long  President 
of  Midttlebury  College,  and  Ws  sons  Rev.  Benjamin  Labaree,  niissionary  in 
Persia,  and  Rev.  John  C.  Labaree,  of  Randolph,  IVLiss.  Sarah,  b.  1721-2, 
March  16.  Seth,  b.  1723-4,  Mjirch  14 ;  
the  first  victim  of  Indian  massacre  at 
Charlestowai,  1746,  May  2.  Mizabcth,  b.  1725,  Sept.  6.  llwmas,  b.  1728, 
Oct.  22;  m.  Rachel  Wetherbee,  of  Charlestowai  ;  was  a  soldier  in  the 
French  and  Revolutionary  AVare;  deacon  of  the  church,  and  its  standino' 
moderator  after  the  death  o»f  Rev.  Mr.  Olcott  in  1793.  He  had  12  ch.'; 
d.  1814.  Aug.  20.  Susanna,  b.  1730-1.  Jan.  8.  Timothy,  b.  1732,  Dec.  25; 
m.  Susanna  Badger.  He  had  two  cMlch-en,  whose  descendants  have  been 
numei"ous. 
2.  Israel  w^as  1>.  in  Salemr,  1699.  Aug.  2^,  son  of  Benjamin,  son  of 
Nathaniel,  above  mentioned.  He  bought,  1721,  June  1,  of  John  Lainon, 
50  acres  of  land  in  the  soirth  part  of  the  tow^n,  wiiich  Lamon  bought  of 
John  Fassett  in  1713.  He  gave  a  i)art  of  it  to  Bedfo-rd  for  the  old  buryino- 
ground.  He  l)ougbt  other  adjoining  lots,  ami  was  one  of  the  first  coi'ist^ 
hies  of  the  new  town  ;  the  first  deaicon  of  the  diurch,  and  a  leading  citizen. 
A  descendant  having  Ms  nsime,  now^  lives  in  Chelmsford.  He  m.  1722, 
July  12,  Sarah  Bacon,  dau.  of  Jonathan.  2;  d.  1760,  Nov.  12.  Ch.  Israel, 
b.  1722-;^.  March  20.  Benjamin,  b.  1725.  Aug.  2.  Jonathan,,  b.  1727,  July  16. 
Sarah,  h.  1729.  Jmie  29.  Elizabeth,  h.  1731,  Julv  18..  Tarant,  b.  1733 
Sept.  2.     3Iarv,  b.  1735,  Nov.  8.     BrerTf/it.  b.  1737.  Feb.  11. 
RMNOER,  Nathaniel,  m.  1741,  I>ec.  30,  Sarah  Kemp,  dau.  of 
Jon;ithan,  2.  Ch.  M'lrij.  b.  1744,  I>?c.  16.  Nehemiah,  b.  1747.  June  10. 
Anna,  b.  1749,  Oct.  8.     Samuel,  bap.  1752.  July  19. 
RANI>ALL,  Geoi-g-e  W.,  and  wife  Harriet  M.  Ch.  John  Edunn, 
b.  1833,  Feb.  25,  at  Charlestown.  George  Elwell,  b,  1835.  Nov.  19,  at 
T^owell.     Levi  Francis,  b.  1840.  Aug.  2S.    Sylvester  Howard,  b.  1&45.  Jan.  23. 
RANLEFT,  Cluirles  Augustus,  was  b.  in  Augusta.  Me.,  1804, 
Aug.  9.  and  d.  in  Billerica,  1878,  A]>ril  17.  lutving-  resided  in  the 
south  ])art  of  the  town,  on  the  Bedford  road,  since  1862.  His  father  was 
Charles,  from  Epping,  N.  H. ;  his  mother,  Abigail  Low,  of  Gloucester. 
For  more  than  40  years  he  followed  the  sea  ;  a  skillful  sailor,  soon  rising 
to  the  rank  of  captain;  widely  and  favoi-ably  Ivnown  in  conimeivial  cii-cles, 
in  connection  with  the  China  trade.  His  favorite  ship,  the  "Surpiise," 
made  the  shortest  ])assage  on  recoixl  fi-ora  Shanghai  to  New  York  in 
82  da,ys.  At  the  battle  of  Navarino,  Ms  ship  w^as  siezed  by  tlie  Turks,  but 
recaptured  by  the  English.       In  the  Mexican  War,   he  was  employed 
 - 501 - 
IIG  RANLI:TT— RICE. 
transporting  troops  and  supplies  from  Xew  Orleans  to  Vera  Cruz. 
In  ISaO.  his  name  was  brought  into  the  debates  of  the  U.  S.  Senate, 
in  conncetion  with  his  s])irlte(l  and  manly  protests  against  the  injustice 
of  seizing  free  colored  seamen  in  Charleston  and  other  Southern  ports. 
The  Hon.  IJobert  C.  Winthrop.  in  th '  Senate,  read,  1850,  Sept.  11,  a  letter 
and  statement  of  facts  from  ('apt.  l>anlett,  and  the  discussion  ensuing',  was 
one  of  the  most  characteristic  of  that  exciting  period.  [See  Cong.  iUohe], 
Naturall}',  when  the  Wiw  of  the  Kebellion  came,  he  was  zealous  and 
active  in  raising  volunteers  and  supporting  the  government.  The  last 
year  of  his  life  was  ])articularly  devoted  to  the  enterprise  of  ))uilding  the 
Xarrow  (iauge  IJailroad.  of  which  he  was  president.  lie  m.  1830,  Dec.  2. 
Minerva  Estlier  Dodge,  dau.  of  David,  of  ('harlestown,  where  she  was 
b.  1809.  Oct.  10.  Her  father  was  town  clerk  of  Charlestown,  28  years,  and 
the  first  city  clerk,  \_\Viiman'\.  Ch.  (b.  in  Charlestown:)  Helen  Aw/usta. 
b.  1831,  Sept.  22;  d.  Dec.  19.  Charles  Avgnstus,  b.  183G.  Sept.  21;  hke  his 
father,  a  seaman,  and  early  I'ose  to  successful  connnand  of  clipper  ships  in 
the  China  trade.  He  m.  1870,  Aug.  4,  Isabella  Faulkner,  dau.  of 
Luther  W..  3.  Eesigning  his  connnand  in  1873.  he  was  seized  with  a 
sudden  illness  in  Brooklyn.  N.  Y.  ;  
d.  187-1:,  Feb.  6.  His  widow  m.  1878, 
June  11.  Ca])t.  Josejih  Steele,  also  a  commandei-  in  the  China  coasting 
ti-ade,  and  she  d.  suddenly  in  China,  Nov.  1.  following.  David  Dodcje, 
b.  1838,  Feb.  2(5;  grad.  H.  C.,  1857,  and  Harvard  law  school,  18G0.  During 
the  Rebellion,  he  was  in  New  Hampshire  service  ;  was  state  auditor,  1865-6, 
and  he  has  been  for  some  years  Treasurer  of  the  Central  Vermont  Eailroad 
at  St.  Albans.  He  m.  Ellen  Augusta  Brown,  of  Charlestown.  Seth  Alonzo, 
b.  1840,  March  18;  a  faithful  soldier  in  the  Army  of  the  Potomac,  at 
Vicksburg  and  in  East  Tennessee,  until  discharged  for  disability  resulting 
from  excessive  exposure  in  February,  1864.  He  m.  Ellen  B.  Pierce,  of 
Charlestown  ;  he  is  in  the  insurance  business  in  Boston.  Horace  Dodge, 
b.  1842,  April  4;  was  a  merchant  in  Japan;  now  in  San  Francisco.  He 
m.  Lizzie  G.  Warner,  of  Concord,  N.  H.  Wildes  Thompson,  b.  1846, 
April  13;  d.  1849,  Jan.  12.     Esther  Minerva,  b.  1850.  June  26. 
REDDING,  Miles,  of  Boston,  had  an  early  grant  at  the  corner,  which 
he  soon  surrendered,  and  it  was  given  to  John  Bracket. 
REED.  1.  €apt.  William,  of  Cambridge  and  Lexington,  bought  in 
1710,  March  27,  a  large  tract  of  common  land  of  the  town,  thus  described. 
"A  certain  parcel  of  land  ^hich  did  remain,  after  the  lotts  were  laid  out, 
on  the  west  side  of  Concord  Biver,  being  the  most  Westerly  part  of  Billerica 
comons.  and  it  is  bounded  on  the  South-West  bjj^  Concord,  about  one  mile, 
and  on  the  Nor'-West  by  the  Major's  farme,  upon  a  streight  line,  about 
three  hundred,  eighty  and  four  poles,  and  partly  by  Verginia  medows  ;  on 
the  North-East  by  tlie  land  of  Kendall  Patten,  in  all" about  323  poles ;  
on  the 
South-East  by  the  blood's  land,  in  a  crooked  line,  about  two  hundred 
and  ninety-two  poles,  *  *  being  by  estimation,  about  five  hundred  and 
sixty  acres."  Some  meadows  previously  granted  within  these  bounds,  are 
excepted.  The  "Major's  farme"  was  the  early  grant  to  Major  Simon 
Willard.  which  becan'ie  the  pi'operty  of  Kobert  Blood,  who  m.  his  daughter 
Elizabeth,  and  was  included  in  Acton  when  that  town  was  incorporated, 
and  is  now  in  the  west  part  of  Carlisle. 
2.  Jonathan  and  wife  Mary.  Ch.  3Iarij.  b.  1743.  June  20.  Sarah, 
b.  1744.  Oct.  8. 
3.  Joshua  and  wife  Hannah.  Ch.  Esther,  b.  1746-7,  Feb.  14. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1749.  April  23. 
4.  Samuel.     Ch.  E/iznheth  Jane.  bap.  1816.  Oct.  6. 
5.  Alexander  and  wife  .Jennette.     Ch.  Jane  Caroline,  b.  1842,  Dec.  4. 
RICE,    Henry,   and  wife  Mary.     Ch.    Mary  Jane.   b.    1830,   July  11. 
Henry  Lee,  b.  1832,  April  16.  Isaac  Augustine,  b.  1836,  June  4.  Beuhen 
Rockwood,  b.  1838.  Nov.  29.  James  Edwin,  b.  1844,  Nov.  29.  Frederic 
William,  b.  1847,  Jan.  22. 
 - 502 - 
RICHARDSON.  117 
KICHAEDSON.  1.  Thomas,  son  of  Thomas,  of  Woburn,  was  b.  in 
IGio,  Oct.  4,  his  father  boing-  one  of  tlie  pioneers  of  that  town.  He  was 
accepted  an  inhabitant  of  Billerica,  1067.  Aug.,  and  succeeded  John  Parlier 
in  the  tenancy  of  tlie  cliurcli  farm,  tliough  1ie  did  not  acquire  a  title  till 
1699.  He  was  a  soldier  in  the  companj'^  of  Capt.  Samuel  Gallup,  in  the 
unfortunate  Canada  expedition  of  1690,  and  deputy  to  the  General  Court, 
1703  and  1704.  He  m.  1669-70,  Jan.  5,  Mary  Stevenson,  dau.  of  Andrew, 
of  Cambridge.  She  d.  1690,  June  7.  and  he  m.  1690,  Dec.  29,  Sarah,  the 
Avidow.  first,  of  Hugh  Ditson,  of  Keading.  and  after,  of  Thomas  Patten.  2. 
Sergt.  Richardson  d.  1720-1,  Feb.  5 ;  
his  widow  d.  1734.  Xov.  20.  Ch.  3Inrij 
b.  and  d.  1670.  Feb.  8.  3/an/,  b.  and  d.  1671-2,  Jan.  31.  Mary,  b.  1672-3, 
Feb.  17;  m.  Edward  Farmer,  3.  Thomas.  3,  b.  167.5.  Dec.  30.  Andrew,  4, 
b.  1678,  June  16.  Nathanid,  5,  b.  1679-80.  Jan.  25.  Jonathan,  6,  b.  1682-3, 
Feb.  14.  Buth,  b.  1685,  Dec.  4;  m.  John  French,  5.  Elnathan,  h.  and  d. 
1686-7,  Feb.  7. 
2.  Stephen,  son  of  Stephen,  of  Woburn,  who  was  cousin  of 
Thomas,  1,  b.  1675-6,  Feb.  20.  His  mother  was  Abigail  Wyman,  dau.  of 
Francis,  who.  with  liis  brother  John,  bought  the  farm  of  500  acres  granted 
to  Pi-esident  Henry  Dunster,  of  Harvard  College.  This  farm  was  next 
south-west  of  Champney's  farm,  which  was  bounded  by  the  Woburn  road  ; 
and  Gookin's  farm  was  above  it.  Mr.  Richardson  no  doubt  inhei-ited  a  part 
of  this  farm,  and  lived  upon  it,  the  house  being  very  near  the  Bedford  line 
and  the  McKee  place.  He  m.  near  1700.  Susanna  Wilson,  dau. 
of  Lieut.  John,  1,  who  li^ved  near.  He  d.  1711-2,  Jan.  14,  and  she  m. 
Daniel  Simonds,  of  Woburn.  Ch.  Susanna,  b.  1700.  June  28;  d.  1712, 
June.  Stephen,  7,  b.  1702,  Aug.  17.  Henry,  b.  1705,  .June  13;  m.  173^2-3, 
Feb.  2,  Amy  Hazeltine,  and  lived  in  the  part  of  Dracut  which  became 
Pelham.  X.  H.     Ebenezer,   b.   1707-8.   Feb.  ;  m.   Ruth    ,   and   lived   in 
Nottingham  West,  now  Hudson,  and  in  Pelham;  d.  there,  1768,  Oct.  22. 
Amos,  b.  1709-10.  March  25;  a  physician  in  Pelham;  will  proved  1765. 
Jonas,  b.  1712.  June  27 ;  m.  Mary  Cutting,  of  Sudburj%  and  lived  in 
Attleborough. 
3.  Thomas,   son  of  Thomas.    1,   b.  1675.   Dei'.  30;  m.  Abigail    . 
The  birth  of  the  first  children  are  not  recorded  in  Billerica.  He  d.  1717-8, 
March  18;  she  d.  1758,  June  4.  Ch.  Abigail,  b.  1700,  Xov.  8;  m.  1715, 
May  25,  Xathaniel  Dunton,  of  Charlestown.  and  2d,  Samuel  Hill,  18. 
Thomas,  8,  b.  about  1702.  John,  b.  about  1704;  perhaps  m.  Catherine 
Taylor,  of  Charlestown.  Andrew  d.  1707.  Oct.  22.  Martha,  b.  1708, 
April  18;  m.  Thomas  Hosley,  2*  Anna.  b.  about  1710;  m.  Samuel  B.ailey, 
of  Lancaster.  Mary,  b.  1711  ;  prob.  m.  1739.  June  6,  James  Stephens, 
of  Townsend.  Ruth,  b.  1712-3.  Feb.  9;  ni.  William  Tarbell.  2.  Susanna, 
b.  1715;  not  ra.  ;  living  in  1756.  Sarah,  b.  1717,  Aug.  31;  m.  Francis 
Crosby,  15. 
4.  Andrew,  son  of  Thomas,  1,  b.  1678,  June  16;  m.  1707,  Dec.  9, 
Hannah  Jefts.  dau.  of  Henry,  3.     She  d.  1749,  Oct.  31,  and  he  m.  Judith 
  .     He   d.   1752,   Dec.   23.     Ch.  Andreiv,  b.  1709-10,  Jan.  18;  m.  1733, 
Dec.  25,  Elizabeth  Winn.  Thev  lived  in  Tewksbury.  She  d.  1757.  Aug.  11, 
and  he  d.  1796,  July  28.  They  had  Andrew,  b.  1734,  Xov.  11 ;  living 
in  1786.  non  compos,  in  Tewksbury.  Elizabeth,  b.  1736,  April  12. 
Zaccheus,  b.  1742,  March  9.  Phebe.  b.  1745.  June  18.  Hannah,  h.  1712, 
July  7;  m.  1731,  Xov.  9,  Benjamin  Kidder,  (see  3).  Josiah,  9,  b.  1714, 
Sept.  9.  Phehe,  b.  1716-7.  March  4;  m.  Isaac  Marshall,  6.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1719,  Dec.  9;  m.  John  Blanchard.  2.  Mary,  b.  1722,  May  26;  m.  Josei)h 
Danforth,  {see  6).  Abigail,  b.  1725-6,  March  6;  m.  1752,  Feb.  20,  Francis 
Kittredge,  {see  9). 
5.  Nathaniel,  son  of  Thomas.  1,  b.  1679-80,  .Jan.  25;  m.  1703,  May  7, 
Mary  Peacock.  He  d.  1753,  April  4;  she  d.  1756,  Oct.  18.  Ch.  Mary, 
b.  1704,  March  31 ;  m.  1747,  Aug.  17,  Jonathan  Goss,  of  Townsend. 
Xathaniel,  b.  1706-7,  Jan.  8;  m.  1733,  Xov.  14.  Dorothy  Farmer,  dau. 
of  John,  2,  and  1738.  Sept.  15,  Elizabeth  Stevens;  lived  in  Townsend;  had 
 - 503 - 
118  RICHARDSON. 
seven  children,  and  d.  about  1757,  Jan.  Samuel,  10,  b.  1708,  Dec.  23. 
Sarah,  h.  1710-11,  'SUmh  S;  d.  1712,  April  18.  WRUam.  b.  1713,  May. t; 
ni.  1742,  Dec.  !),  Mary  llohart.  of  Uroton;  lived  in  Townsend;  had 
9  children,  and  d.  1773,  Ainil  30.  His  son  Israel  d.  in  the  arm  v.  Hezdiiah, 
b.  1715,  May  8;  ni.  174^0,  .Se])t.  3(),  Eli/abeth  Walker,  dau.  of  .Jacob,  4; 
lived  also  in  Townsend,  and  had  10  cJiildren.  She  d.  1792,  .July  12; 
he  d.  ]7!>5.  -June  17.  Ehcnczcr.  b.  1717,  Sept.  12;  d.  young.  liebrcca, 
b.  1720,  May  17;  ni.  Benjaniiu  Jii<-hardsoii.  of  Wobuni.  Joseph,  h.  17'22, 
JNIav  20;  d.  1747,  .June  10;  killed  bv  Indians  in  an  auibu.scade  liear  Fort 
Duiinner,  (Hrattleboro").     Ehenezcr,' 11,  1).  1724.  (k't.  2, 
0.  .TonatJian,  son  of  Thomas,  1,  b.  1(182-3,  Feb.  14;  nu  1713.  Hannah 
French,  dau.  of  John,  2.  He  d.  1720,  Aug.  13,  and  she  in.  Benjamin 
Frost,  *,h  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1714,  April  2;  ni.  1735.  Dec.  30,  John  Abbot,  of 
Westford.  Jonathan.,  12,  b.  1715-0.  Feb.  7.  Thonvas.  h.  1718,  June  5; 
m.  Abigail  Merrow.  and  lived  in  \Voburn.  Abiel.  b,  1720,  Nov.  12 ; 
m.  S'.irah  Hovnton,  and  lived  in  AVe.stford  and  Popperell.  Had  G  children; 
killed  by  a  fall,  1753,  July  19. 
7,  Stephen,  son  of  .Stephen,  2,  b,  1702,  Aug.  17;  in.  1728,  Amy 
Parker,  dau.  of  Nathaniel,  of  Peatling.  ( h.  Amy,  b,  1728-9,  Feb.  14; 
m.  1704,  .July  12,  Nathaniel  Ilayward,  of  Woburn.  Abigail,  h.  1730, 
Dec.  5,  Stephen,  13,  b.  1732,  Dec.  2.  Luaj.  b.  1734.  Sept.  13;  m.  1757, 
May  5,  Sampson  Crosby,  18,  Bevloh,  b.  II'M.  ]\Iay  8.  Susanna^  b.  1738, 
Api'il  24;  m.  1702,  .Julv  22,  Oliver  Pollard,  gr.-son  of  Thomas.  1.  Bachel, 
b.  1739-40,  Feb.  11.  Belhyah,  b.  1741-2,  Feb.  3,  Hanimh,  b.  1743,  Nov.  14. 
Buth,  b.  1745-6,  Feb.  21. 
8.  Thomas,  son  of  Thomas,  3,  b.  about  1702;  m.  Sarah  Ditson,  dau. 
of  Hugh,  1.  He  d.  1738;  his  wife's  will  is  dated  1752,  Nov.  29. 
Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1724.  Sept.  30;  lived  in  Westford;  had  6  ch.  ;  will  proved 
1803,  March  8.  James,  b.  1728.  Oct.  19.  ^Ivmi?/,  b.  1729,  Oct.  8;  m.  1747, 
Feb.  4,  Ebenezer  Wilson,  of  Bedford.  ^ 
0.  Josiah,  sou  of  Andrew,  4,  b.  1714,  Sept.  9;  m.  1748,  Jan.  3,  Judith 
Kendall,  sister  of  Reuben,  2.  He  d.  1753,  Jan.  20.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1749, 
Nov.  12;  m.  Josi-ah  Bowers,  {see  3).  Josiah,  15,  and  Judith,  b.  1751, 
June  19.  Judith  d.  1783,  Jan.  13.  Abigail,  b.  1753,  Sept.  5,  and  d.  1772, 
July  27. 
10.  Samuel,  son  of  Nathaniel.  5,  b.  1708,  Dec.  23;  in,  1736-7,  Feb.  1, 
Hannah  Walker,  dau.  of  Jacob.  4.  He  d.  1790,  Aug.  22.  Ch.  Samuel,  16, 
b.  1737,  Sept.  24.  Hannah,  b.  1739.  Sept.  9;  m.  Asa  French,  21.  Sarah, 
b.  1741.  Jan.  30;  in.  1764.  Feb.  23,  William  French,  13^.  Fattij,  b.  1743, 
Nov.  10;  m.  1767,  Dec.  3,  Samuel  .Jaquith,  of  Wilmington  and  of 
Greenfield,  N.  H.  3IoUii.  b.  1740,  April  11  ;  m.  Jacob  Marshtill,  8.  Bolly, 
b.  1749,  Aug.  11;  in.  1769,  Feb.  2,  James  .Jaquith,  of  Wilmington. 
Joseph.  17,  b.  1752.  Oct.  21.  Fhebe,  b.  1757,  Feb.  25;  m.  1775,  May  30. 
Moses  Noyes.  of  Wilmington. 
11,  JEbeuezer,  son  of  Nathaniel.  5,  b.  1724.  Oct.  2-,  m.  1746,  Dec.  30, 
Elizal)etli  Shed.  dau.  of  Benjamin,  8.  She  d.  1763,  May  10,  and  he  m.  1764, 
Oct.  4,  Mary  Crosb3%  dau.  of  Simon.  6.  He  m,  1770,  Dec.  0,  Lydia 
Danforth,  widow  of  James,  19,  and  1776.  Dec.  12,  Catheilne  Wynian, 
AvidoAV  of  Increase.  She  d.  1783,  Jan.  19,  and  he  m.  1783,  May  31,  Elizjibeth 
Bacon,  of  Bedford,  who  d.  1790,  May  1,  and  1790,  Nov.  23,  he  m.  Susanna 
Davis,  widow  of  Daniel,  of  Bedford.     She  d.  and  he  in.  Kezia    ,  as 
ai)pears  from  probate  nx^ords.  He  d.  1808;  his  inventory  dated  Oct.  4, 
Ch.  Elizabeth,  1).  1747,  Dec.  27;  d.  1749,  July  23.  Eebeccn,  b.  1749, 
Sept.  29.  Bette,  b.  1750,  Feb.  12;  m,  William  Currier,  1.  Ebeufzer,  b. 
1752,  Dec.  20,  and  d.  Ebenezer,  18,  b.  1754,  Feb.  25.  lihoda.  b.  1755, 
Dec.  31 ;  m.  John  Edes.  Nathaniel,  b,  1757,  May  19.  Lucy,  b.  1758, 
Jan.  12,  and  d.  young.  Asa,  19,  b.  1760,  Feb.  14.  Isaac,  b.  1761,  Oct.  30. 
Jb/m.  b.  1763,  March  lO.  i^c?/.  b.  1771,  Aug.  3;  d.  1775,  Sept.  4.  Abigail, 
b.  1772,  De<\  8.  and  d.  1775,  Sept.  13. 
 - 504 - 
RICHARDSON.  119 
P.  S.  Kezia.  the  last  wife  of  Mr.  Richardson,  was  tlie  widow  of  Amos 
Wyiiian,  4,  and  d..  1814.  Nov.  KJ.  aged  75. 
12.  Jonathan,  sou  of  Jonathan,  6,  b.  1715-6,  Feb.  7;  m.  1739-40. 
Feb.  14.  Abigail  Fanner,  dan.  of  Oliver,  5.  She  d.  1790.  Jan.  30,  and  he  d. 
1791,  Mareh"4.  Ch.  Ahiijail.  b.  1741.  April  14;  m.  William  Johnson,  of 
Woburn.  {see  1).  Jonathcni.  b.  1743.  June  3;  d.  July  2.  Jonathan.  20,  b 
1744.  Nov.  25.  Thomas,  21,  b.  1747.  Sept.  3.  OUver,  22,  b.  1749-5o! 
Feb.  15;   (bap.  Feb.  11).     Benjamin,  b.  1753.  March  3,  and  d.  1773.  Feb.  23! 
13.  Stephen,  son  of  Stephen.  7,  b.  1732.  Dee.  2;  m.  1709.  Jan.  o! 
Mary  AVilson.  dau.  of  Seth.  .5.  He  fl.  1798.  Feb.  2.  She  d.  1814,  Feb.  Ls! 
Ch.  'Stephen.  23,  b.  1770.  April  23.  SUas.  24,  b.  1773,  April  7.  Mary.  h. 
1774.  Sept.  10:  m.  1814.  Oct.  13.  Amos  Kingsbury,  of  Medfield.  Martha 
1).  1780.  Oct.  20;  m.  1812.  Feb.  20,  Ichabod  Everett,  of  Boston.  They 
lived  in  Billerica  ;   no  cliildren.     .She  d.  1848,  Nov.  G. 
14.  Jacob,  son  of  Ilezekiah,  of  Townsend.  and  gr.-son  of  Nathaniel.  4, 
b.  1742,  Dec.  13;  ni.  1707.  May  19.  Sarah  Brown,  dau.  of  Josiah,  6.  He 
was  lieutenant  in  Captain  Farmer's  company,  in  the  Eevolution,  and  served 
in  campaign  of  1777.  '  
His  wife  d.  1805,  March  1,  and  he  lived  after,  in 
Lyndeboro",  N.H.,  and  d.  1817,  Sept.  5.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1708,  Jan.  15;'  d. 
Jacob,  b.  1709.  Aug.  10;  m.  Sarah  Lewis,  of  Milford,  N.H..  where  he 
lived,  and  in  Greentield.  after  1798  ;  had  ten  children,  and  d.  1839.  Nov.  9. 
Elizaheih.  b.  1771,  Oct.  11.  and  d.  1770.  Feb.  29.  Josiah  Brown.  25,  and 
Timothy,  b.  1773,  Oct.  1.  Timothy  lived  in  Lyndeboro';  had  6  children, 
and  d.  1855.  John.  26,  b.  1770.  June  15.  BiUy.'h.  1778,  Aug.  20;  m.  Phebe 
Batchelder.  EUzaheth.  b.  1780.  Nov.  22  ;  d.  1807.  April  13.  Elijah,  b.  1783. 
July  5;  d.  1784,  April  20.  Julia,  b.  1785.  Aug.  25;  d.  1802,  June  22. 
Anna.  b.  1788.  Aug.  19;    m.  Joseph  Jones. 
15.  Josiah,  son  of  Jo.siah.  9,  b.  1751,  June  19;  m.  1770.  Oct.  25. 
Lydia  Walker,  dau.  of  Kobert.  11;  d.  about  1815.  Ch.  Josiah.  b.  177l! 
Feb.  11.  and  d.  March  1.  Josiah,  b.  1773.  Sept.  16.  and  d.  1775,  Auo-.  22. 
Ahif/ail.h.  1770.  May  17;  m.  Isaac  Pollard,  12.  Judith,  b.  1783,  Feb.  3 ; 
m.  Francis  Pollard,  13. 
16.  Samuel,  son  of  Samuel.  10,  b.  1737,  Sept.  24 ;  m.  Martha  Stevens  ; 
was  living  in  1815.  Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1707.  May  2;  m.  1795,  June  10,  Tamison 
Jaquith.  In  1815,  was  in  Clinton.  Me.  John.  27,  b.  1708.  April  6.  Fatte, 
b.  1772.  Dec.  6.  Jane.  b.  1774.  July  0;  m.  1796.  Feb.  9.  Andrew  Jaquith! 
William,}).  1770,  March  7;  lived  in  Burlington;  d.  in  1815.  Timothy,  h. 
1778.  Aug.  24. 
17.  Joseph,  son  of  Samuel,  10,  b.  1752.  Oct.  21 ;  m.  Martha  Chapman. 
lie  lived  on  a  road  long  disused,  which  ran  south  from  the  Andover  road, 
near  the  Salem  road  crossing.  He  d.  1779,  Oct.  0.  Ch.  Patty,  bap.  177o! 
Nov.  17.  Joseph,  h.  1778.  Feb.  1 ;  grad.  D.  C,  1802;  studied  theology  with 
Dr.  Cumings;  was  approbated  to  preach  by  Andover  Association,  1803. 
Teacher.  Charlestown.  1804-6.  Ordained.  First  Church.  Hingham,  1800. 
July  2.  and  remained  in  charge  till  his  death,  1871,  Sept.  25.  The  Eev. 
Calvin  Lincoln  was  installed  his  colleague  in  1855.  He  m.  1807.  May  23. 
Ann  Bowers,  dau.  of  Dr.  Benjamin.  7,  who  survived  him.  The  church  in 
which  he  preached  was  built  in  1081.  the  oldest  still  in  its  original  place 
and  use  in  the  thirteen  states.  Mr.  Eichardson  was  Eepresentative  from 
Hingham.  1821  and  1822.  and  Senator  from  Plymouth  county  in  1823.  '24. 
and  '20.  and  Chairman  of  Conuuittee  on  Parishes  in  both  cases;  member  of 
the  Constitutional  Convention  in  1820.  and  of  the  House  of  Eepreseutatives, 
1827-31.  He  then  declined  reelection,  and  was  succeeded  by  ex-president 
John  Quincy  Adams.  He  publi.«hed  (1)  'The  American  Eeader.'  (2)  -The 
Young  Ladies"  Selection  of  Elegant  Extracts.'  ^3)  -A  Narrative  of  the 
Proceedings  in  the  North  Parish."  139  pp..  with  Ajipendix,  Salem,  1807. 
(4)  'Vindication  of  the  Proceedings  of  the  First  ("hurcli  and  Parish  of 
Hingham.'  in  settling  Eev.  Joseph  Eichardson.  80  pp..  1807.  In  1855.  he 
was  the  orator  at  Bi-Centennial  Celebration  in  Billerica,  and  (0)  his  oration 
was  i)ubli.shed.  as  were  (7)  'A  Sermon  at  the  Close  of  Fifty  Years'  of  his 
 - 505 - 
120  RICHARDSON. 
ministry,  and  (8-19)   twelve   other  occasional   sermons.     John   Chapman. 
horn  after  his  father's  death,  1780.  Feh.  18. 
IS.  Ebenezer,  son  of  Khenezer.  11,  b.  1754,  Feh.  25;  m.  1776. 
April  2.-).  Keheoca  Wilker.  dau.  of  l{ol)ert,  11.  She  d.  1782,  May  17,  and 
he  m.  1783.  Aijril  24,  Susanna  Tufts,  of  Medford.  She  d.  ISOC.  April  fi,  
'and 
he  m.  1807,  Feh.  U).  Susanna  Dean,  of  Bedford.  lie  d.  1818.  .Ian.  2(i.  and. 
Ins  widow,  between  1835  and  1838.  ("h.  Joel,  b.  1777.  Jan.  17;  m.  Eliza 
Dean,  and  1823,  Dec.  28.  Susun  li.  Baker,  of  Boston.  He  lived  in  Boston, 
and  after  1838,  in  Billerica;  d.  184!),  May  3;  his  widow  d.  1871.  Dee.  7. 
They  had  (1)  Joel  Lyman,  b.  1813.  Aug.,  "and  d.  1834.  Oct..  in  New  Orleans. 
(2)  Theodore  Mansfield,  b.  1817.  Feb.  14;  m.  Eliza  A.  Perkins;  lives  in  Stock- 
ton. Me.  (3)  SiisanElizal)eth.  b.  1828.  Jan.25;  m.  184!).  Jan.  11,  John  ("orhin 
Hutchins,  and  lives  in  Philadelphia.  Of  their  four  children.  Susan  Mariam 
was  b.  in  Billerica,  1850,  Sept.  10.  Eebecca..  b.  1778.  Sept.  13 ;  m.  Edward 
Bennett  (see  2).  Nathaniel,  b.  1781,  April  27;  m.  Mary  Ballester,  and  lived 
in  Boston.  Isaac,  b.  1786.  July  18;  m.  Jane  P.  Sedman.  and  lived  in  Boston. 
Susanna,  b.  1787.  May  21  ;  ni.  1805.  Oct.  28.  George  Minot  Barrett,  of 
Maiden  and  Staten  Ishind.  Asa.  bap.  1788.  July  0.  Lnnj.  b.  178!).  Mareli  23  ; 
m.  1806,  Oct.  22.  Peter  W.  Miller,  of  Boston,  and  Nathaniel  ( 'heever. 
Martha,  b.  1791,  Feb.  2  ;  m.  lier  cousin  Francis,  28.  Mary.  h.  1792.  :Nrarch  2  ; 
ni.  William  Rand,  of  Boston.  Eleanor.,  b.  1794,  Sept.  11;  m.  .Joshua 
Bennett,  3.     Lucretia.  bap.  17t)8,  April  1. 
19.  Asa,  son  of  Ebenezer.  11,  b.  1760,  Feb.  14;  m.  1781,  May  23. 
Sarah  Tufts,  of  Medford.  Ch.  Asa.  b.  1782,  ]March  5;  m.  Elizabeth  Bird, 
of  Dorchester,  and  was  a  mei-chant  in  Boston.  He  had  Asa,  Charles. 
William,  Elizabeth,  Sarah  Tufts,  and  Horace.  He  died  by  his  own  hand, 
1833.  Dec.  11;  his  widow  d.  1844,  Marcli  20.  Snlhi.  b'.  1785.  Dec.  22. 
Francis,  28,  and  Josiah.  h.  1787,  Dec.  6.  William,  b.  1790,  Feb.  24;  m.  1822. 
Maj^  14,  Sarah  Danforth,  dau.  of  Joseph,  22;  trader,  hotel  and  stage 
l)roprietor;  also  a  suicide,  1826.  David,  b.  1792.  Feb.  10;  m.  t^liza  Kings- 
l)ury ;  had  14  children,  and  lived  iu  Andover;  d.  1847,  Sept.  24.  Joseph,  b. 
1794,  Xov.  8;  m.  Lucy  Cummings;  lived  in  Andover;  d.  1874.  Nov.  Pcq(jy 
Tufts,  b.  1795,  June  23;  m.  Cyrus  Farmer,  {see  13).  George,  b.  1797. 
June  18;  m.  Asenath  Cummings,  of  Andover;  h^ed  in  Lowell  and  Chelms- 
ford, and  d.  1852.  Dec.  13.  He  had  five  children,  of  whom  Asenath  Louisa 
ni.  Rev.  George  W.  Webster.  Lucretia.  h.  1799,  May  !<.  and  d.  1833. 
June  26.     Samuel,  b.  1802.  Dec.  5,  and  d.  1810.  Sept.  13.' 
20.  Jonathan,  son  of  Jonathan.  12,  b.  1744.  Nov.  25;  m.  Lydia  — -. 
and  d.  .it  Chelmsford.  1813.  His  widow  d.  1815.  Nov.  Ch.  Lydia.  b.  1773, 
July  31;  d.  1776,  Sept.  27.  Benjamin,  b.  1774,  Dec.  1;  d.  1776,  Jan.  20. 
Hannah,  h.  1776,  Sept.  13.  and  d.  1778,  Marcli  21.     Lydia,  h.  1779.  :March  30. 
21.  Thomas,  son  of  Jonathan,  12,  b.  1747.  Sept.  3;  m.  1772,  Dec.  3, 
Judith  Kendall,  dau.  of  Reuben.  2.  He  kei)t  a  tavej-n  at  the  corner. 
Ch.  Judith:  'h.  1774,  April  12;  m.  Micajah  Rogers.  15.  Ahigail,  1).  177(i, 
April  28;  m.  Josiah  Stevens.  Hannah,  b.  1778.  Sept.  29;  m.  1801,  Nov.  1, 
John  French,  of  Boston  Polln.  b.  1781,  June  4.  Sarah,  b.  1783,  Oct.  26; 
ni.  Jacob  Kendall,  5.  Reuben  Kendall,  b.  1787,  July  20.  Lydia,  b.  1788, 
Dec.  6;  m.  Artemas  Rogers,  {see  14).  Anna.  b.  1791.  Feb.  3;  m.  1814. 
Oct.  20,  John  Thompson,  of  Boston.  Be.txey.  b.  1793,  Jan.  21.  Tliomas. 
b.  1796.  Aug.  31  ;  m.  Olivia,  dau.  of  Cyrus  Alger,  of  the  famous  iron 
foundry,  Boston.  He  lived  in  Mobile.  1817-28,  and  was  an  alderman  of 
that  city.  After  that,  he  lived  in  Boston,  a  partner  in  tlie  foundry.  He 
was  a  Representative  in  1835  and  1836.  and  Alderman  of  Boston,  1837  and 
1838.  Died  in  1872,  Dec.  16.  He  has  a  son.  Thomas  F.  Richardson,  in 
Boston. 
22.  Oliver,  son  of  Jonathan.  12,  b.  1749-.50.  Feb.  15;  m.  1778. 
April  8,  Elizabeth  Shed,  dau.  of  John,  16.  She  d.  1813.  Nov.  19.  and  lie 
d.  1836.  Sept.  23.  Ch.  Betsey,  b.  1780,  Feb.  3;  m.  1802.  Oct.  17,  John 
Chandler,  of  Medford;  d.  1805.  Nov.  7.  Oliwr.  b.  1781,  Dec.  27;  d.  1804. 
Oct.  27.  Lnaj.  b.  1784.  July  9;  m.  Philip  Mills.  Patty,  b.  1787,  Feb.  9; 
m.  Benjamin  Tenney.     John.  29,  b.  1789.  Nov.  21. 
 - 506 - 
RICHARDSON.  121 
23.  Stephen,  son  of  .Stephen,  13,  b.  1770,  April  23;  in.  Khodn 
("rosby.  dau.  of  Weth.  22.     He  d.  1839.  Aug.  17;    slie  d.   1862,   May  21. 
('h.  ihrtiet  Foster.  hi\\).   1814.  Oct.  2;   m.     Pratt,  in  Boston.     Ihulletj 
Foster,  bap.  same  day ;   d.  young. 
24.  Silas,  son  "ot  Stephen.  13,  b.  1773,  April  7;  m.  1799,  Feb.  21. 
Hannah  Bacon,  dau.  of  John,  of  Bedford.  He  was  a  colonel  in.  the  state 
militia;  lived  by  the  Bedford  line,  west  of  the  Shawsliin;  d.  1850,  Jan.  .5: 
liis  widow  d.  1851,  Feb.  14,  aged  71.  Ch.  Hannah  Hai/irood,  b.  1799.  July  5; 
m.  1819,  xVpril  25,  Daniel  Mclntire,  of  Burlingtoii  ;  d.  1867,  July'  14. 
Sarah  Baeon.  b.  1801,  May  5;  lives  in  Lowell.  Abigail  Kittredge.  b."l803. 
Sept.  20;  ni.  Joseph  Rogers,  of  Boston.  JIaria.  b.  1805.  Oct.  20;  d.  in 
Saco.  Me..  1872.  Sept.  2.  Sii.'ian.  b.  1807,  Dec.  7;  m.  Horace  Howard,  of 
Lowell;  d.  1879.  Jan.  4.  Franklin,  b.  1810,  June  14;  m.  Susan  Crosett. 
and  lives  in  Hudson.  Xancy  Wyman.  b.  1812,  Sept.  23;  m.  Cornelius 
Sweetser,  of  Saco,  Me.  George  Everett,  b.  1815.  Feb.  27;-  d.  1830.  Nov.  25. 
John  Brooks,  b.  1817,  July  30;  m.  Martha  Richardson,  dau.  of  Francis.  28. 
He  is  a  merchant  in  I^owell. 
25.  JosLali  Brown,  son  of  Jacob.  14,  b.  1773,  Oct.  1;  m.  1799. 
Nov.  27.  at  Hillsboro".  N.  IT..  Mary  Wyman,  dau.  of  Eliphaz,  born  in 
Burlington.  He  was  a  blacksmith  at  the  corner;  selectman,  and  colonel  of 
militia';  d.  in  Medford.  His  wife  d.  1855,  Sept.  22.  Ch.  il/ary.  b.  1801, 
Mav  10,  and  d.  1809,  Feb.  19.  Elisabeth,  b.  1807,  Aug.  6;  m.  - —  Derby, 
of  Medford.  3Iury.  b.  1815,  Feb.  13.  and  d.  ISIG,  March  11.  Lavini'a. 
b.  1819.  Aug,  26;   m.      Teel,  of  Medford,  and  d.  1854.  Oct.  2. 
26.  John,  son  of  Jacob,  14,  b.  1776,  June  15;  m.  181-7.  Nov.  23, 
Lydia  Johnson.     Ch.  Julia  Sarah,  b.  1818,  Dec.  13.     Lydia  Ann.  b.  1821, 
'April  9  ;   m.     Woodward,  of  Lyndeboro'.    Josiah  Brown.    John.     Mary. 
27.  John,  son  of  Sanuiel.  16,  b.  1768,  April  6;  m.  1794.  June  2. 
Abigail  Bacon,  of  Bedford.  He  lived  east  of  the  Shawshin;  \\as  killed  bv 
a  fall  from  a  tree.  1807.  Sept.  2;  his  widow  d.  1847.  April  24.  Ch.  Oliver 
Bacon.  1).  1794.  Aug.  21;  m.  Abigail  Monroe;  lived  in  Stoneham,  and 
d.  1863.  Abigail,  b.  1797,  Julv  10.  and  d.  1801.  Oct.  15.  John,  b.  1799, 
Oct.  2,  and  d.  1800,  Oct.  5.  John.  31,  b.  1801.  Aug.  31.  DanieJ.  b.  1803, 
Dec.  7;  was  a  blacksmith;  now  lives  in  Woburn;  m.  1826.  Nov.  25. 
Barbara  Goodwin,  and  1844,  May  15,  Louisa  (ileason,  dau.  of  William,  2; 
had  ch.  Barbara  Anna,  who  ni.  Nathan  W.  Frve.  and  Mahdna,  \\\\o  m. 
C.  W.  Holden.  Abialbon.  b.  1806,  Feb.  25;  m.  Dolly  B.  Hoyt;  had  3 
children;   d.  1849,  Nov.  3. 
28.  Francis,  son  of  Asa.  19,  b.  1787.  Dec.  6;  ni.  Martha,  his  cousin. 
She  d.  1844,  June  14;  he  d.  1860,  June.  Ch.  Louisa,  b.  1815,  June  6; 
d.  Oct.  28.  Martha  and  Francis,  b.  1816,  Nov.  13.  Francis  d.  Nov.  26. 
Martha  m.  Jolm  B.  Richardson,  (see  24).  Louisa,  b.  1818.  Nov.  11; 
(1.  1820,  March  25.  Francis  Eben.  h.  1822.  July  20;  m.  18-52,  Dec.  21.  Eliza 
Gorham.  and  is  a  merchant  in  Billerica.  Caroline,  b.  1824.  Sept.  10; 
m.  Theophilus  B.  Fellows.  3Iary  Louisa,  b.  1825,  Dec.  2;  m.  Frederic 
Dickinson.  Josi(fh.  b.  1828,  Sept.  5;  m.,  and  lives  in  Billerica.  Wdliam 
and  Warren,  b.  1830,  Sept.  17.  Warren  died  young.  Eveline,  b.  1833, 
Sept.  19;    m.  1861,  Nov.  28,  John  F.  Baldwin. 
29.  John,  son  of  Oliver.  22,  1).  1789.  Nov.  21;  ni.  1812.  March  4. 
Nancy  Allen,  dau.  of  Jeremiah.  4.  Ch.  Je/hn.  b.  1812.  Nov.  17.  and  d.  1815, 
April"  23.  Oliver,  b.  1814,  Sept.  25,  and  d.  1815,  Oct.  5.  Nancy,  b.  1815. 
Sept.  23;  m.  Anthcmy  Jones.  2.  John  Oliver.  32,  b.  1819.  Feb.  8.  Abigail 
Allen,  b.  1821,  Oct.  17;  m.  William  Grav.  3.  Alden  Bradford.  33,  b.  1824. 
Mav  8.  Albert  Rogers.  34,  b.  1825.  Dec.  26.  Maria  Elizabeth,  b.  1828, 
Apiil  12. 
30.  John,  and  wife  Abigail,  had  ch.  3Iary  Peters,  b.  1815,  Nov.  30. 
He  A\as  a  stage  driver,  and  did  not  i-emain  long. 
31.  John,  son  of  John,  27,  b.  1801.  Aug.  31;  m.  1823.  April  13, 
Abigail  Tarbell.  dau.  of  William.  4;  d.  1852,  June  5.  Ch.  Charles  Levns. 
h.  at  Dracut.  1823.  Oct.  3.     Joseph   Warren,  b.  1825,  April  18,  and  d.  1826. 
 - 507 - 
1 22  RICHARDSON—  rogp:rs. 
Sept.  2.  Joscpli  Wurroi.  h.  1827.  April  20;  in.  Bet.*('v  J.  Tav-  Daniel 
Daris.  b.  182!).  .Jan.  10.  and  d.  1830.  Oc-t.  15.  Daniel  Daris,  h.  1831. 
•Inly  9.  ami  d.  .July  1.").  Jnhn  Hmry,  b.  1832,  Aug.  2.5;  d.  1859,  Oct.  8. 
Abi't/itil  Maria,  b.  1834.  Oct.  4.  Gennje  WilliaiiK  h.  1837.  July  C.  Ellen 
Driixilla,  b.  1839,  Sept.  15.  Mary  Ann,  b.  1841.  July  20.  Nathan  Alrin,  b. 
1844.  Oct.  1. 
32.  John  Oliver,  son  of  Jobn.  29,  1j.  1819.  Feb.  8;  ni.  1843.  Feb.  9. 
Paniclia  .Iar([U('s,  ot  'l\'wkstHii-y.  He  lives  beside  the  vailroail.  ojjposit*' 
Billerica  station,  east  of  the  highway;  his  brother  Albert  living  west  of 
the  highwav.  Ch.  Fanni/  Pamelia.  b.  18.")8.  March  9:  ni.  1878.''Se])t.  12. 
Iloniei-  II.  ("olby.     John  Alden,  b.  18()7.  Feb.  0. 
Nov. 33.7,   A Iden"  Bradford,  son  of  .John.  25),  b.  1824,  May  8;  m.  1844. 
Martha  Brown,  of  Tewksbury.  lie  d.  in  Lowell.  1875,  March  31. 
Ch.  Nellie  Alzina.  b.  1845,  March  21;  ni.  1805,  Dec.  27,  Warren  Fox.  A 
dau..  I.illah  J.,  b.  1870.  INIay  15. 
Nov. 34.30.   Albert  Kogers,  son  of  John,  21>,  b.  1825,  Dec.  26;^ni.  1854, 
Harriet  Frost,  dau.  of  Benjamin,  IG.  She  d.  18()2.  Feb.  2.  and  he 
m.  1872.  Nov.  18.  Caroline  Elizaltetli  Wood,  dau.  of  Ora.  of  Hiirtford,  Vt. 
Ch.  Ella  Maria,  b.  1857,  Jan.  11;  m.  1877.  Aug.  l(t.  Charles  K.  Wild. 
Harriet  AiK/nsta,  b.  18(!2,  Jan.  24.  Alice  Marthn.  b.  1875.  Oct.  23.  Mart/ 
W(,nd   b.  1877.  Aug.  20. 
35.  Warren,  son  of  Thomas,  b.  in  Westford,  1814,  Jan.  3;  m.  1830, 
March  10.  Clarissa  Dix;  ''is  a  trader  in  Londonderry."'  {liichardson 
Memorial,  No.  1278).     Ch.  Warren,  b.  1837,  Feb.  13. 
3(>.  Tliomas  Knig^ht,  son  of  Joseph,  of  Woburn.  {Bichardson  Memo- 
rial, No.  2033.)  m.  Fivinia  Snow,  dau.  of  John.  3.  He  lives  on  the  east 
road,  south  of  Fox  hill.  Ch.  Joseph  FrtDilditi,  1).  in  Boston.  1834,  May  9; 
d.  1803.  Jan.  25,  in  the  army.  Edward,  Kni(/hts.  b.  1830,  Sept.  10.  Laura, 
1).  1839.  Aug.  18;  m.  Fdnunid  E.  Woodward,  of  Danville.  \'t.  Adaline.  b. 
1841.  Dec.  15,  and  d.  Dec.  22.  Adelhart  Omar,  b.  1843,  Aug.  !) ;  w<'nt  to 
('alifornia.  Lneretia.  b.  1840,  Jan.  13 ;  m.  1808.  March  17,  Sanuiel  Warren 
Palmer,  of  Charlestown. 
ROBINS,  Jonas,  m.  1704,  Feb.  27.  Sibbel  Durant.  dau.,  i)rol)..  of 
John.  4.  Ch.  Sihhel,  b.  1705,  May  3.  Jonas,  b.  1707,  Aug.  12.  Midhj.  b. 
1709.  March  14.     Benjamin,  h.  1772.  July  1. 
ROHERDS,  Peter,  and  wife  Susannah.  Ch.  Snsannah.  b.  1730, 
April  28. 
ROtlERS.  1.  John,  A\as  freeman  in  Watertown,  1039.  and  Bond 
sup[)oses  that  hi'  was  son  of  John,  who  d.  there,  1074,  Dec.  22.  aged  80. 
The  conjecture  that  he  was  a  baker  is  strengthened  by  the  fact  that  Billerica 
gave  him  a  grant  of  several  poles  of  haul,  "against  his  own  dwelling- 
house,  to  set  a  kitc^hen-house  on.'"  This  flrst  grant  in  town  was  in  1050, 
and  i)rob.  he  came  here  that  year.  It  was  eight-tenths  of  a  single  share. 
His  lirst  grant  was  23  acres,  '•lying  upon  the  township,  his  house-lot  being 
included.  It  is  bounded  ])artly  by  connnon  land,  and  partly  by  James 
Kidder,  on  the  north,  and  by  our  great  river  on  the  west,  l)y  -lacol)  Brown, 
on  the  south,  by  Concord  road,  on  the  east."  This  was  near  VNlicre  the 
town-house  stands.  He  had  another  lot  on  tlie  west  side  of  long  street, 
near  the  Deacon  Spalding  i)lace;  a  lot  in  the  Seconil  Division,  near 
Shawshin  river,  and  one  "in  tin;  connnon  tield,  beyond  cont<'nt."'  or 
Tewksbury.  with  meadow-lots  in  the  various  divisions.  He  m.  1040, 
Priscilla  Dawes,  of  Boston.  She  d.  1003,  April  21,  and  he  m.  1009,  July  (i, 
widow  Fli/abeth  Brown,  of  Boston.  She  was  mother  ot  our  tJeorge 
Brown,  3.  "Sir.  Kogers  d.  108.5-0,  Jan.  25,  aged  74.  His  grave-ston<'  is  the 
oldest  still  standing  in  town,  in  the  S(-utli  hurying-gronnd.  Ch.  ,/olrn,  2, 
b.  1041,  Sept.  11.  Mary,  b.  1043,  Oct.  20;  m.  JolnrFrench,  2.  Thomas,  3. 
Abigail,  m.  Arthur  Warren,  of  Chelmsford,  and  d.  a  widow,  1071.  June  15. 
Daniel,  4,  Nathaniel,  5.  Priscill((,  m.  1082,  Jan.  19,  Simcm  Coolidge,  of 
Watertown.  Hannah,  b.  1070.  May  0.  and  d.  May  24.  Bethia,  d.  1072, 
Dec.  29.     Sarah,  d.  107G-7,  Jan.  9. 
 - 508 - 
ROGERS.  123 
2,  John,  son  of  John.  1,  b.  1641,  vSept.  11;  ni.  1C67,  Oct.  10,  Mary 
Shed,  dau.  of  Daniel.  1.  He  lived  just  beyond  North  Billerica.  and  his 
house  was  for  .some  yeiirs  the  extreme  outpost  hi  that  direction.  It  stood 
25  rods  east  of  the  railroad,  and  80  rods  nortli  of  Gov.  Talbot's  house. 
His  Avife  d.  1088,  Aug.  17.  and  he  m.  1(588-9.  Feb.  7.  Al.)igail  llogers,  widow 
of  William,  of  Charlestown.  He  Avas  killed  by  Indians,  IGDO.  Aug.  5. 
Ch.  Manj.  b.  1GG8,  Sept.  21;  prob.  m.  William  Patten,  5.  John,  b.  1C70-1, 
March,  and  d,  April  15.  Sumuel,  6,  b.  1672,  April  5.  Prob.  Sarah,  b.  1674, 
Aug.,  who  m.  Eoger  Toothaker,  a.  Euiike,  b.  1676,  Aug.  27;  m.  John 
Marshall,  2.  John,  7,  b.  1680,  Dec.  13.  Daniel,  b.  1G83,  May  12;  taken 
captive.  Mercy,  also  taken  captive;  birtli  not  recorded;  perhaps  belongs 
here.  Hannah,,  b.  1687,  Xov.  21  ;  m.  Joseph  Atherton,  of  Harvard.  Her 
son  Josepli  lived,  1757-60,  in  Billerica.  whei-e  his  son  Jonathan  was  born, 
1759,  Nov.  11,  who  Avas  one  of  the  pioneers  in  the  settlement  of  Cavendish, 
Yt.  ;  
farmer,  surveyor  and  kiAvyer.  His  grandson,  Henry  Bridge  Atherton. 
grad.  D.  C,  1859;  AAas  severelv  Avounded  in  the  Peninsula  C"ami«iign,  audi 
is  a  biAvyer  and  editor  in  Nashua.  Humphrey  Atlierton,  an  eminent  laAvyer 
of  Philadeli)hia,  Avho  grad.  D.  C,  1806,  and  d.  1849,  AA'as  also  a  descendant 
of  our  Hannah  Eogers. 
3.  Thomas,  son  of  John,  1,  m.  1072,  Sept.  30,  Hannah  Shed,  dau.  of 
Daniel,  9.  She  d,  Dec.  19,  after,  and  he  ni.  1680-1,  March  16.  Mary 
BroAvn.  his  step-sister.  The  grant  of  land  Avhich  probably  included  his 
house-lot  AA'as  made.  1678,  May  14.  •■three  acres  of  land,  more  or  less, 
lying  W^est  of  y«  higliAvay,  betAveen  Roger  Tootliaker's  house  and  3^  liouse 
of  Jno.  Eogers,  sen.,  beginning  about  four  pole  SoutliAvard  of  y«  bridge 
over  that  Ijrook.  and  then  runs  WestAvard  to  y*  river,  to  a  Avliite  oake  ; 
bounded  b,y  tOAvn  land  SoutliAAard;  by  y«  higliAvay  on  y^  East,  and  North- 
AA'est  b}^  Concord  river;  West  by  y"  comon  land  Nortli,"  etc.  This  road 
Avould  pass  near  the  depot,  and  his  house  Avas  perhaps  in  the  heart  of  the 
village,  near  the  school-house  at  North  Billerica.  The  site  lias  special 
interest,  as  he.  with  his  son  Thomas.  Avas  involved  in  tlie  s^ime  cruel  fate 
Avitli  his  brother  John,  1695,  Aug.  6.  His  Avidow  d.  1696,  April  4,  (but 
grave-stone  says  1697,  April  14,  aged  35).  Ch.  Sarah,,  b.  1682-3,  Feb.  18; 
d.  1692-.3.  March  23.  Thomas,  b.  1084-5,  Feb.  1;  killed  by  Indians.  John, 
b.  1687,  Dec.  19,  and  d.  WlUiam,  h.  1689-90,  Jan.  11.  and  d.  1709,  Dec.  29. 
John,  b.  and  d.  1691.  Nov.  27.     Abu/ail,  b.  1693.  June  21. 
4.  Dauiel,   son  of  John.   1,  m.  Mary    .     He  lived  AAcst    of  Long 
street,  near  the  house  of  Mrs.  Wild;  d.  1727-8,  Feb.  4.  Ch.  Daniel,  b.  1687, 
(X*t.  9;  d.  1711,  Nov.  5,  in  WatertOAvn.  Benjamin,  b.  1690-1,  Feb.  13; 
d.  1092,  May  11.  Dorothy,  b.  1692-3.  Feb.  10;  ni.  1732,  Sept.  11,  Job 
Williams,  and  had  Job,  b.  1733-4.  Feb.  8.  Joseph,  b.  1695-6,  March  15. 
Jeremiah,,  b.  1700,  June;  non  compos;  guardian  a])pointed  1735.  Probably 
John,  8:  birtli  not  recorded,  limothy^  b.  1705.  June  11.  Jonathan,  b.  1707, 
June  20;  non  compos;  aided  by  the  tOAvn,  1736.     Bichard,  b.  1713,  May  29. 
of    5.  Nathauiel,  son  of  John.  1,  m.  1685.  Nov.  25,  Martha  Cloves,  "dau. 
John,  of  AVatertOAvn.  She  d.  1710-1,  Jan.  15.  aged  51.  He  liv(>d  in  the 
A'illage.  prob.  occupying  his  father's  place;  d.  1730,  Oct.  3.  Ch.  Nathaniel, 
b.  1687,  May  15;  d.  1688-9,  Jan.  18.  3Iary,  b.  1688-9,  Feb.  14.  Ezekiel, 
b.  1691,  July  23.  Nathaniel,  9,  b.  1694,  Nov.  12.  Hannah,  b.  1697, 
April  11.  *S'arrt/i,  b.  1699-1700,  Feb.  15;  nr.  John  Dunkin,  of  Worcester, 
(see  2). 
6.  Samuel,  son  of  Jolin,  2,  b.  1672,  April  5;  m.  1695-0.  Jan.  2.  Grace 
  .     Slie  d.  1706.  June  12,  aged  27,  and  her  grave-stone  beai's  the  earliest 
date  in  the  grave-yard  at  the  ■  
Corner.'  He  m.  1707.  May  22,  Elizabeth 
Stearns,  dau.  of  John.  2,  Avho  d.  1710.  April  18.  Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1690. 
8ept,  24.  Hannah,  b.  1098-9.  Jan.  17.  Eunice,  b.  1701,  Aug.  22.  AbifjaH, 
b.  1703,  April  9;  m.  Jonathan  Prince. 
7.  John,   son  of  John.   2,   b.   1080.   Dec.   13;  m.  Abi«i-ail    .     He 
d.  1736,  July  7.  She  d.  1754,  Jan.  9,  aged  73.  Ch.  John,  b.  1710,  Dec.  IS; 
d.  1738-9.  Feb-  18.    Abigail,  b.  1712,  May  17.     Thomas,  b.  1713-4,  Jjin.  8. 
 - 509 - 
124  ROGERS. 
Josiah,  b.  1710,  May  17;  d.  1736,  June  22.  Timothy,  b.  1717,  Nov.  30; 
in.   1744,   ^lan-h   12.   Rebecca  French,   dau.   of  Jacob,    12.     She  d.  1750, 
Sept.  15.  and  lie  m.  lUith    .     He  d.  ]7!)G.  Feb.  IG.  and  liis  widow  1800, 
Dec.  15.  He  lived  in  Tewksbiirv,  and  had  12  children,  of  whom  Philip, 
b.  1762,  July  2.  was  father  of 'Oliver  C,  23.  Zebnlialt,  10,  b.  1720-1, 
Feb.  23.     Sarimol  11,  b.  1722-3.  Feb.  2. 
8.  John,  prob.  son  of  Daniel,  4,  m.  Marj  Toothaker,  dau.  of 
Eoger.  2.  He  d.  and  she  ni.  1733,  Dec.  25,  Dr.  Benjamin  Atherton. 
€h.  Willinm.  b,  1721,  Xov.  26.  Thomas,  b.  1724,  May  26;*ni,  1745,  Dec.  5, 
Martha  Dows,  dau.  of  Ebenezer,  1,  and  d.  1784,  March  31;  his  widow 
d.  April  2!).     David,  b.  1729.  Dec.  13. 
9.  Nathaniel,  son  of -Nathaniel.  5,  b.  1694,  Nov.  12 ;  in.  1724.  Oct.  26. 
]Mary  Ilag'.n'itt,  of  .Vndover.  He  d.  and  she  m.  Ebenezei'  Dean.  2.  Ch.  Marij. 
b.  lt24-5".  Feb.  2.  Martha,  b.  1727,  June  7.  Nathaniel,  b.  1728-9,  Feb.  16; 
d.  1730.  Nov.  7.     Muses,  b-  1730-1.  Feb.  4. 
10.  Zebadiah,  sou  of  John,  7.  b.  1720-i:  Feb.  3;  n».  1751,  April  11. 
Bette  Farmer,  dau.  of  Oliver.  S.  He  d.  1803.  June  25;  his  widow  d.  1805, 
.Sept.  27.  He  lived  on  the  road  to  Winnings  pond.  Ch.  i?f«e,  b.  1752, 
3Iay  1;  m.  1776,  April  25.  Isaac  Kittredge,  of  Tewksbury.  Zebadiah,  12, 
b.  1754^  March  18.  John,  13,  b.  1756,  Oct.  15.  Josiah,  14,' b.  1759,  April  28. 
Lnc>i,  b.  1761.  April  21;  m.  John  Winning.  2.  S&Z^'^,  b.  1763,  Nov.  4; 
d.  1770,  Nov.  15.     Micajah,  15,  b.  1766,  Junel7. 
11.  Samuel,  son  of  John.  7,  b.  1722-3,  Feb.  2;  m.  1751.  April  18, 
Eebecca,  twin  sister  of  his  brother's  wife.  He  d,  1788,  Apiil  21  ;  she 
d.  1809.  Aug.  30.  Ch.  Becca,  b.  1752,  Feb.  11;  m.  1771.  Feb.  7,  Josiah 
Rogers,  "of  Ipswach,  N.  H."'  Samuel,  b.  17.54.  March  5.  He  d.  a  lieutenant 
••in  defence  of  bis  country,  at  Virginia,"  1781,  Oct.  18.  Ahit/nil,  b.  1756, 
July    31;    m.    Jeremiah    Allen,    4.        William,     16,     b.    1759,     May    25. 
Thomas,  17,  b.  1762,  Aug.  12.  Rachel,  b.  1765,  May  23;  m.  Samuel 
AVhiting.  12.     Ezra,  b.  1768,  May  9. 
12.  Zebadiah,  son  of  Zebadiah,  10,  b.  1754,  March  18;  ra.  1790, 
July  I,  Sarah  Hutchinson,  of  Bedford.  She  d.  1823,  Oct.  26;  he  d.  1839, 
July  4.  Ch.  HMcMnmn,  18,  b.  1792.  May  31.  Eizpah,  b.  1794,  De^-.  20. 
Noah,  b.  1796.  April  8.     Lot,  d.  1823,  June'l9. 
13.  John,  son  of  Zebadiah.  10,  b.  1756.  Ot,  15;  m.  1786.  May  20, 
Rhoda  Shed.  dau.  of  John,  16.  She  d.  1797,  Dec.  17,  and  he  m.  1798. 
Nov.  29,  Sarah  Pollard,  dau.  of  Edward.  5,  He  d.  1850.  Jan.  25.  Ch.  John, 
b.  1790.  Jan.  31.  Hermon,  1»,  b.  1792,  June  26.  Cyrus,  h.  1799.  Oct.  29; 
d.  1857,  Feb.  22. 
14.  Josiah,  son  of  Zebadiah.  10,  b.  1759,  April  28;  m.  1785.  Dec.  15. 
Rlioda^  Wooster,  of  Tewksbuiy.  She  d.  1811,  Julv  4,  and  he  m.  Diadema 
Read.  He  d.  1822.  Feb.  4.  Ch.  Josiah,  20,  b.  1786,  Sept.  26.  Eldad, 
h:  1788,  June  15-,  d.  West-  Artemas,  b.  1790.  May  12:  m.  1813.  Nov.  25, 
T>ydia  Richardson,  dau.  of  Thomas,  21.  Gmd.  H.'C.  1809.  Practised  law 
In"  Heniiik(^r,  N.  H..  1813-33:  after,  iu  Mass.  and  N.  Y. ;  
d.  1865.  Micajah, 
1).  1792.  March  4;  grad.  H.  C..  1817;  established  a  select  classical  school  in 
Baltimore,  and  taught  for  some  years,  also  studying  law.  His  health 
failing,  he  bought  a  farm  in  Carroll  county,  where  he  spent  most  of  his 
life.  "lie  m.  Mary  Lyon,  dau.  of  Major  Robert  Lyon,  and  left  ch.  Robert 
Lyon,  now  U.  S.  Commissioner,  Baltimore;  Charles  L..  who  lives  near 
PlkesvlUe,  Md.  ;  Dr.  Henry  C,  iind  Mary.  He  d.  1875,  April  9.  Rhoda, 
b.  1794,  April  20;  m.  1819,  April  20,  Samuel  Worcester,  of  Tewksbuiy; 
d.  in  Dracut.  Zebadiah,  b.  1796,  April  2;  m.  Mary  Tre^it,  of  Bangor,  Me., 
where  he  lived  many  years.  He  was  killed  by  the  Indians  in  California. 
Jacob  Osfjood,  b.  1798,  March  8;  lived  in  Me.;  m.  Emaline,  b.  1800, 
Nov.  22;  (bap.  1799.  Dec.  1?)  m.  Levi  Bliss,  Boston;  d.  1864.  Jan.  10. 
Pranldin,  b.  1802,  Jan.  31 ;  m.  and  lived  in  Junius,  N.  Y.  Catharine, 
b.  1804.  Julv  29;  m.  James  R.  Faulkner,  2.  Caleb  Strong,  b.  1807, 
March  27;  bap.  March  15.  Lury  Jane,  b.  1814.  Dec.  22.  Diadema  Starrs, 
bap.  1816,  Ai)ril  28.  Martha,  b.  1819,  May  20;  m.  1851,  June  9,  Royal  H. 
Tupper,  of  Stockbridge.  Vt. 
 - 510 - 
R0C4ERS.  125 
15.  Micajali,  son  of  Zebadiah,  10,  b.  1766,  June  17;  in.  179», 
April  25.  Judith  Kichardson,  dau.  of  Tliomas,  21.  Ch.  Germje  Wnshington, 
b.  1800.  May  17.  Hannah  Richardson  French,  b.  1802,  Dec.  14;  (bap.  1802 
Aug.  1,-)?).     Judith  ElizahPth,  b.  1805.  Dee.  14. 
16.  William,  son  of  Samuel,  11,  b.  1759,  May  25;  ra.  1787,  Nov.  29, 
Susanna  Pollard,  dau.  of  Jonathan,  7,  She  d.  1789.  Feb.  25,  and  he 
m.  1789.  Dee.  10,  Hannah  Fanner,  dau.  of  Oliver.  9.  He  lived  in  the 
brick  house  where  the  canal  crosses  the  Concord  river;  d.  18;^8,  Aug.  3 ;  
liis 
widow.  1856,  April  21.  Ch.  William,  b.  1790,  Deo.  23;  m.  1822,  July  2;j, 
Marv  Howe,  of  Meclford.  He  d.  there,  1862,  Feb.  24.  Jeremiah,  b.  1792, 
Oct.'  26;  in.  1822.  April  16.  Abigjiil  Crosby,  dau.  of  John,  28;  lived  in 
I.ondonderrv  ;  d.  1877.  Calvin,  21,  b.  1794.  Aug,  30.  Hannah,  b.  1796, 
May  11;  m.  1821,  May  16,  [Family  Record.  '10']  Charles  Roundy,  of 
Salem.  She  d.  1876,  Feb.  8.  Charles,  b.  1798,  Mav  25;  d.  1799.  May  28. 
Bebecca  Farmer,  b.  1800.  May  18;  m.  1822,  Jul}"  14,  Jabez  W.Barton, 
of  Salem,  now  of  Waverley,  Mass.  Sukey,  b.  1802,  April  1 ;  m.  1825, 
Nov.  24,  Job  Kittredge,  of  Tewksbury,  and  2d,  Oliver  C.  Rogers,  23. 
Harriet,  h.  1805,  April  17;'m.  1828,  Dec.  4,  Samuel  Burbank,  of  Chelmsford; 
d.  1872,  July  13.  Louisa,  b.  1808,  Aug-.  23;  d.  1850,  Feb.  12.  Elvira, 
b.  1810,  Aug.  5,  and  d.  1830,  Feb.  22.  Angiistns,  b.  1813,  Nov.  25;  m.  Sarah 
llalev,  of  Salem  ;  lives  in  Guilford.  N.  H. 
17.  Tliftiuas,  son  of  Samuel.  11,  b.  1762,  Aug.  12;  m.  1786,  Aug.  3, 
Olive  Pollard,  dau.  of  Jonathan.  7.  He  d.  1804.  Mav  1.  and  she  m.  1807, 
May  10.  Stephen  Barrett,  3.  Ch.  Olive,  b.  1787,  Feb. '28;  d.  1788,  Feb.  11. 
Jonathan  Pollard,  b.  1790,  Feb.  9.  Sctmnel,  22,  b.  1792,  Julv  6.  Olive 
Whitinrj,  b.  1794.  July  14. 
18.  Hutcliinson,   son  of  Zebadiah,   12,  b.  1792,  May  31;  m.  Keziah 
  .     Ch.    Sarah,   b.    1833,  Deo.   30.     Noah   Augustus,    b.    1834,  Dec.  23. 
Mariah,  b.  1836.  Jan.  4;  Howe  school,  1853. 
19.  Henuoii,  son  of  John,  13,  b.  1792,  June  26;  m.  Hannah  Danforth 
of  Merrimac,  N.  H.  He  lived  in  the  east  part  of  North  Billerica,  at  the 
comer  of  the  Lowell  road.  Removed  to  Amesbmy  about  1868,  and  d. 
there,  1878,  Oct.  17.  Ch.  Hannah  Prince,  b.  1822,  Dec.  18;  m.  1847,  June  1, 
Samuel  S.  Blodgett.  of  Amesbuiy.  Francis  Danforth,  b.  1826.  Jan.  7 ;  lives 
in  Nashua.  John  Frederic,  b.  1829,  Nov.  29 ;  
is  a  Boston  mei-chaut,  firm  of 
Rogers  &  Sheldon,  81  Water  street.  He  m.  Amanda  L.  Sheldon,  and  2d, 
Frances  L.  Emery.    Adam  Ella  Sheldon,  b.  1854,  June. 
20.  Josiali,  son  of  Josiah,  14,  b.  1786,  Sept.  26 ;  m.  1815,  April  4. 
Mehitable  Blanchard,  dau.  of  Joseph,  11.  He  d.  1866,  Dee.  21.  Ch.  Emily 
b.  1816,  April  4;  d.  Juliet,  b.  1817,  Oct.  28;  d.  Bebecca,  h.  1823,  Jan.  7; 
m.  1849,  Oct.  11.  Reynolds  Rogers,  of  Concord,  N.  H. ;  
d.  1851,  Oct.  25. 
3Iarij.  b.  1825.  May  2;  d.  1843,  Aug.  2.  Sarah  Blanchard,  b.  1827,  Aug.  25;. 
m.  Dr.  Augustus  Mason.  Elizabeth,  b.  1831,  Feb.  15;  m.  Nathan  Weston,, 
Dorchester.  Mehitable,  b.  1833,  Nov.  12;  d.  1846,  May  25.  Josiah,  b.  1838, 
Oct.  14;  d.  1841,  Mav  18. 
21.  Calviu,  sou  of  AVilliain,  16,  b.  1794,  Aug.  30;,  m.  1820,  April  30,. 
Ann  Faulkner,  dau.  of  Francis.  1.  He  lived  in  the  brick  '  
Toothaker  '' 
house  at  the  intersection  of  the  canal  and  Concord  I'iver,  and  later,  in  the 
house  east  of  Hon.  Thomas  Talbofs.  He  d.  1879.  March  9.  Ch.  Eliza  Ann 
b.  1821,  Oct.  18 ;  
d.  1876.  June  25.  Manj  Hotv,  b.  1827,  June  11  ;  m.  Thomas. 
Talbot,  2.  Elvira,  b.  1830,  April  21 ;  m.  Joseph  Gould,  4.  Harriet  Burbank,. 
b.  1834,  April  12.  She  has  been  from  its  organization  in  1867.  the  accom- 
plished, enthusiastic  and  successful  Principal  of  the  Clarke  Institution  for 
Deaf  Mutes  at  Northampton.  Ella  Faulkner,  b.  1843.  Nov.  25;  d.  1849,. 
Jan.  28. 
22.  Samuel,  son  of  Thomas.  17,  b.  1792.  July  6;  m.  182:3,  Dec.  28^ 
Sarah  Sawin.  He  lived  near  the  Fordway.  Ch.  Susan  Pollard,  b.  1824, 
Oct.  26;   m.  1838,  Nov.  4,  Henry  P.  Shumway.     Olive   Whitinrj,  b.  1826, 
June  2 ;   m.     Swan  ;   
lives  in  Vermont.     Frances  Sarah  Kendall,  b.  1829> 
Feb.  13;   m.     Helen  Eliza,  b.  1834,  July  13;   d.  1848,  Jan.  17;   fell  through 
the  ice  on  Concord  river. 
 - 511 - 
12G  ROGERS  —  ROSS. 
23.  Oliver  Clark,  son  of  Philip,  (see  7),  b.  180G.  Sept.  IG.  in  Tewks- 
buiy;  in.  is;i7,  April  27,  Mrs.  8iis;in  Kittrcdfj^o.  widow  of  Job  and  dau.  of 
Williaiii  K<>i>tM-s.  KJ,  Slic  d.  1S78.  May  22.  lie  lias  lived  in  Woburn,  and 
siiif  1S72  in  Hillcrica.     Ch.   Oliver  Wi'bsCer.  h.  1841.  Aiia:.  30. 
24.  Elizaboth,  in.  1716-7.  Jan.  17,  Philemon  Chandler,  of  Andover. 
ROLF,  Daniel,  and  wife  Abio;ail.     Ch.  Daniel,  b.  1748.  May  13.     Jona- 
than, 1).  
17r)0.  June  18. 
ROLLINS,  Voluntine  P.,  and  wife  Lydia.  (1i.  Voluntine.  b.  1843, 
Jmie  4.  Elizabeth  Li/dia,  b.  1845.  June  17.  Alden.,  b.  184H,  April  1.  Mind- 
well  H..  b.  18r)0,  Dee!  KJ. 
ROSS.  1.  Thomas  was  a  Scotehnian,  and  in  16.i6  was  a  servant  of 
Edward  Winsbip.  of  Cambridge^  He  removed  about  1070  to  Jiilleriea.  l)uy- 
ing  the  live-acre  'right"  of  Samuel  Keiui).  Avhose  place  was  on  the  East 
road,  near  Miss  Sophia  Allen's,  lie  m.  1061-2,  Jan.  16.  Seeth  Hohiian, 
dau.  of  AVilliam.  of  Cambridge,  and  d.  1694-5,  March  20,  aged  64.  Ills 
widow  ])erished  in  the  Indian  massacre,  1695.  Aug.  5,  A^'ith  the  ch.  of  her 
dau.  Margaret,  who  had  in.  John  Levistone.  She  was  born  in  1640. 
Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1662.  Dec.  19.  and  d.  Maniaret.  b.  1663-4,  Jan.  22;  in. 
John  Levistone,  1.  21wm((s.  2,  l).  1668.  June  20.  Sarah,  h.  1671,  June  21  ; 
ill.  Hugh  Ditson.  1,  Hannah.,  b.  1679,  March  31;  m.  Nathaniel  Patten,  4. 
John.  3,  b.  168(!-7.  Jan.  18. 
2.  Thomas,  sou  of  Thomas,  1,  b.  1668.  June  20;  ni.  Sarah    :.     II. 
boug'ht  in  1700  the  west  half  of  the  Champney  farm,  south  of  the  Woburn 
road  and  west  of  Shawshin  river.  His  name  disappears  from  tax-list,  1738. 
Ch.  Thomas.  4ry  b.  1692-3,  Feb.  4.  Sarah,  b.  1694,  Oct.  7;  m.  lVl4-5, 
Jan.  26,  Ensign  Seth  Wyman.  of  Woburn.  He  was  b.  1686,  Sept.  13,  in 
Woburn.  near  Billerica  line,  the  son  of  Seth.  In  the  ill-fated  Lovewell 
expedition  of  1725.  he  killed  the  Indian  who  shot  Ca])tain  Lovewell,  ami  the 
lieutenant  lieing  disabled,  the  command  devolved  on  him.  B}'  his  bravery 
and  skill  he  was  mainly  instrumental  in  saving  as  many  as  escaped.  On 
return,  he  i-eceived  a  Captain's  commission,  and  a  silver-liilted  sword  as  a 
testimonial  for  his  g  )od  service.  He  did  not  long  sur\ive.  Enlisting  in  an 
expedition  ag'ainst  the  Indimis,  the  extreme  heat  and  dysentery  proved  fatal 
to  inanv.  and  he  d.  1725,  Sept.  5.  His  widow  d.  1727.  Nov.  5.  They 
left  ch."Seth.  Ilezekiah.  Esther  and  Ross  who  m.  174:3.  May  12,  Elizabeth 
Jefts.  dau.  of  Henrv.  4;  she  d.  1746.  Seth,  5,  b.  1699,  July  14.  Hannah, 
h.  1702.  .Mav  13;   iii.  William  Crosby,  9, 
3.  Johi,  son  of  Thomas.  1,  b.  1686-7,  Jan.  18;  m.  1715,  Oct.  11, 
Sarah  Russell,  prob.  dau,  of  John,  of  AVoburn.     Ch.  John,  b.  1716.  Dec.  23. 
4^.     Thomas,  son  of  Thomas,  2^  b.  1692-3,  Feb.  4;   m.  Hannah    . 
He  d.  1752,  Nov.  26.  Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1720-1,  Feb.  16;  m.  1751,  Dee.  1, 
Peggy  Farmer,  of  Woburn.  Samvel.  b.  1722,  July  3.  Hannah,  b.  1723-4, 
March  14;    m.  Jolui  Shed,  son  of  Nathan.  9, 
5.  Setli,  son  of  Thomas.  2,  b.  1699.  July  14;  m.  Mary    ,     His 
name  disappears  from  tax-list.  1771.  Ch.  Martj,  b.  1725,  June  25,  and  d. 
Sept.  28.  Mfni.  b.  172t).  Oct.  1;  in.  Samuel  Danforth,  13.  Perhaps 
Joseph,  a.     John.  7,  b.  1733,  Ajn-il  2. 
6.  Joseph,  jirob.  son  of  Seth,  5,  m.  1752.  June  25,  Lucy  Danforth, 
dau.  of  Samuel,  (t.  His  iwime  tljsapj)ears  from  the  tax-list.  1764.  Ch.  Sarah, 
hap.  1752,  Nov.  19.  Luci/.  bap.  1754,  May  19.  Joseph,  bap.  175G,  May  30. 
Benjamin .  bap.  1758,  Aug'.  20.  Thomas,  bap.  1760',  Aug.  31.  Josiah,  bap. 
1762.  Aug.  22. 
7.  Johu,  son  of  Seth,  5,  b.  1733.  April  2;  m.  1762,  Nov.  4,  Mary 
Dunckle,  dau.  of  Ilezeldah,  1.  His  name  disappear?  from  tax-list,  1784. 
Ch.  3Iarii.  1).  17(b5,  Aug.  4.  Sarah,  b.  1765.  (bap.  17(!6,  i)rob.  the  tnie  birth 
date.]  ,Ijin.  31;  m.  '1788,  Mav  6.  Fllialdin  Tufts.  ,/o/iM  Emerson,  b.  1777. 
Jan.  23;  iii.  179().  Dec.  29,  Jane  Piiest. 
8.  Margaret,  a  widow,  and  her  daughter  Hannah  were  bap.  1756, 
Jimc  20.     She  m.  1758,  Nov.  15.  David  French,  17, 
 - 512 - 
RUGGLES.  127 
RU6GLES,  1.  John,  of  Eoxbui-}-,  and  Martha,  his  wife,  had  a  dau. 
Martha,  b.  in  Billerica.  1G75,  June  5. 
2.  Samuel,  Rev.,  was  fiom  Koxbiiry;  son  of  Samuel,  whose  father. 
Thomas,  caine  in  16;io  from  Nasing,  in  Essex.  The  mother  of  our  Samuel 
was  3Iartlia.  dan.  of  Eev.  .John  Woodbridge.  pastor  of  Andover.  and 
gr.-dau.  of  Gov.  Thomas  Dudley.  Slie  d.  in  Billeriea.  173S.  Samuel  was 
b.  1681,  Dec.  3;  grad.  H.  C,  170-J;  was  teacher  in  Haidlej^  a  short  time; 
chosen  to  assist  Mr.  Whiting  for  one  year,  1707,  July  7,  and  ordained  his 
colleague,  1708,  ]May  19.  He  i-eceived.  1707,  Sept.,  a* grant  of  eight  acres 
of  land,  at  £4  per  acre,  "•  on  the  common.  Westwaid  of  the  meeting-house, 
bounded  by  Enoch  Kidder  West,  by  Rogers  Soittli.  by  a  highway  North, 
and  East  by  a  streight  line  from  the  South-East  corner  of  C'apt.  Ihuiforth, 
liis  paster,  to  tlie  Nortli-East  corner  of  Rogers,  his  orchard,  by  y^  pound." 
This  lot  had  been  early  granted  to  the  famous  Capt.  Gookin,  and  after, 
exchanged  for  a  larger  g'ant,  South-Eaist  of  Nutting's  pond.  Here  Mr. 
Ruggles'  house  stood,  perhaps  where  Mrs.  Osborn  now  lives,  or  farther 
South.  At  his  death,  his  homestead,  '"about  16  acres,"'  -'with  a  large 
mansion-house,'*  was  ajipraised  at  £2300;  library  at  £16,  15»;  bonds  and 
bills,  £2:^8;  Silver  'Tanker'  and  other  plate.  £110;  wearing  apparel,  £86; 
beds  and  furniture.  £88;  clock,  £3.5;  cows  and  swine.  £1)1  ;  Negro  woman, 
£200.  Total,  £4103.  He  m.  1710,  Dee.  19,  Elizxibeth  Whiting,  dau.  of 
Sanuiel,  2.  She  d.  1727.  July  29.  and  he  m.  1728.  April  18.  Elizabeth 
Williams,  dau.  of  Samuel,  of  Roxliury,  and  niece  of  Rev.  Jolm  Williams, 
of  Deerfield.  the  "'Redeemed  Captive."  She  d.  1748.  June  2;").  and  he  died 
the  following  March  1st.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1711.  Sept.  21,  and  d.  1713, 
Aug.  21.  Smmiel.  b.  1713.  May  29;  prob.  d.  before  his  father,  as  he  is  not 
mentioned  in  tlie  will.  Xathanu'l,  b.  1715.  July  16,  and  d.  1717,  Dec.  29. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1717,  June  21;  m.  17^37,  May  31,  '  
Samuel  Dununer,  Esq., 
of  Wilmington.  After  the  birth  of  a  dau'  Elizabeth,  1738,  Maix'h  25,  Mr. 
Dummer  died,  and  she  m.  1739,  May  29.  Rev.  Daniel  Rogers,  pastor 
of  Littleton.  He  was  b.  in  Ipswich,  1706,  Oct.  17;  grad.  H.  C,  1725; 
ordained  1732,  March  15,  and  d.  in  office,  1782,  Nov.  22.  having  held  a  high 
rank  among  the  ministers  of  his  day.  Martha,  b.  1719,  Sept.  9;  m.  1741, 
July  7,  John  Whiting,  of  Littleton.  Dorothy,  b.  1721-2.  Jan.  7;  m.  1743, 
Aug.  4,  Rev.  Isaac  Morrill,  of  AVilmington.  He  was  b.  in  Salisburv.  1718, 
May  20;  gi-ad.  H.  C,  1737;  ord.  1741.  May  20.  and  d.  in  otHce.  1793, 
Aug.  17.  Lucy,  b.  1723-4,  Feb.  9.  Josejih,  3,  b.  1725-6,  Jan.  9.  Nathaniel, 
b.  1729.  June  14,  and  d.  1730,  April  14.  John.  b.  1730,  July  4;  not  named  in 
his  fathers  will.  Sarah,  h.  1731,  Nov.  6:  m.  Rev.  Josiah  Steai-ns,  of 
Epping,    N.   IL,  {see  &).     William.  4,  b.  1733.  April  30. 
3.  Joseph,  son  of  Rev.  Samuel.  2,,b.  1725-6.  Jan.  9;  m.  Mrs.  Sarah 
Robey.  of  Sudbury.  He  died  not  long  before  1785.  Nov.  2.  when  his  son 
Joseph  was  appointed  guardian  of  Samuel,  his  brother.  Ch.  Sarah, 
b.  1750,  Sept.  29;  d.  1754,  Jan.  25.  Smnitel,  b.  1752,  June  7;  tl.  1753, 
Aug.  23.  Samuel,  b.  1754,  May  12;  d.  1755.  May  9.  Sarah,  b.  1756, 
Jan.  20;  d.  1758,  May  13.  diolly,  b.  1757,  Jan.  22;  m.  1778,  Nov.  10, 
Joseph  Shed.  20.  Joseph,  5,  b.  1759.  April  4.  Samuel,  b.  1761,  April  8, 
and  d.  May  7.  Smxth,  b.  1762.  April  27;  m.  John  Carter,  of  Wilmington. 
Elizabeth,'  h.  1764,  Feb.  4;  d.  1813,  April  19.  Anna.  b.  1766.  Feb.  10; 
m.  Closes  Cai'ter,  of  Wibnington.  Martha,  b.  1768-,  April  30.  Samuel.  6, 
b.  1770,  AvTg.  3.  Mattheiv.  baj).  1772,  Nov.  8.  Luty,  b.  1774.  Oct.  26; 
ui.  Jacob  Gould,  of  AVest  Roxbiuy. 
4.  William,   son  of  Rev.    Samuel,   2,  b.   1733.  April  30;  m.  Abigail 
  ,  and  lived    in    Waltham.     Bond.      He  d.   1778,   March   18.   and  his 
widow  m.     Bailey;  d.  1801.  Oct.  17,  aged  60.    N.  B.     A  family  record 
of  his  dau.  Elizabeth,  is  authority  for  these  names  and  dates  beyond  those 
given  by  Bond.      Ch.   Samuel,  b.  1765.  April  26.       William,  b.  1767.  Feb.  8. 
Abigail,  b.  1769.  March  5;  m.     Hartwell,  and  d.  1803.  Nov.  15.    Timothy, 
bap.  1771,  April  14.  James,  bap.  1772.  Aug;  30.  Elizabeth  m.  Francis 
Cook,  3.  One  of  these  sons  settled  in  L5'ndon.  Vt..  and  has  a  numerous 
posterity  there  ;  another  went  to  Canada,  but  probably  had  no  family. 
 - 513 - 
128  RUGGLES—  SANDERS. 
5.  Joseph,  son  of  Joseph.  3,  b.  1759.  April  4;  m.  Patty  Hastings. 
His  chililifn  were  born  in  Boston,  but  ho  returnod  to  Billerioa.  1808.  and 
d.  liiTc  1833.  Feb.  2S ;  his  \vit>.  d.  is:n  March  30.  aged  01.  Thfj-  lived  on 
tlie  cast  road  t)  Lowell.  ju>t  n  )rth  of  the  railroad.  Ch.  Marlha  m.  Calvin 
Pago.  Boston.  Sarah  Bohcij.  d.  Sarah  Pa(/e,m.  Wyatt  Iliohards.  Bo.ston. 
Joseph  m.  Wealth}-  Fleming:  lived  in  Marietta.  Ohio.  Lucy.  h.  1799. 
Xov.  27;  m.  1827.   Xov.  27.  John  K.  H)lton.  Boston.  He  d.  1874,  June  12. 
Thomas  Urford.  d. 
6.  Samuel,  son  of  Jos'ph.  3,  b.  1770.  3:  lived  in  B:)ston.  His  second 
wife  was  Elizabeth  Haskell.     Ch.  Elizo  ni.  Dr.  Nathaniel  Prentice,  and  2d. 
Samuel  L.  Lawrence,     (iforrjc  lived  and  died  in  Boston.    Sarah  Ami.  m.    
Randall.        Chrirles    m.    ]NLiry    J.  Cutler:    di<'d    in    Medford   about   1870. 
WiUiaia  Hf'urii  d.  in  Lincoln.  1878.    John  Uaskcll  died  young.    Mary  m.    
Howard,  and  lives  in  Northfield. 
RUMRIL,  Daiid,  of  Westford,  and  Priscilla  Corey,  of  Chelmsford; 
m.  170.5.  Aug.  20. 
RUSS.  1.  Hesechia  has  a  highwav  laid  out.  1714.  (Rec.  Vol.  II, 
p.  309). 
2.  Samuel  m.  1774.  Feb.  21.  Hannah  Pollard,  dau.  of  Solomon.  8, 
who  d.  1812.  Feb.     Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1774.  Fob.  2.5.    Hannah,  b.  1778.  April  9. 
3.  Nathan  m.  1778.  Sept.  13.  Sarah  Danforth,  dau.  of  Timothy,  18,  or 
of  Samuel.  13. 
RUSSELL.  1.  Benja:nin  m.  1786.  Oct.  31.  Hannah  Shed.  dau.  of 
Thomas.  18.  Ch.  Thomas.  2,  b.  1787.  March  .5.  John.  b.  1798,  Feb.  19. 
Benjamin,  b.  1801.  Nov.  .5. 
2.  Thomas,  son  of  Benjamin.  1,  b.  1787.  March  5:  ra.  1805.  March  27, 
Mary  Siialding.  Ch.  Ephrriim.  b.  1806.  Nov.  13.  Thomas  S..  b.  1809, 
March  27.     Hannah,  b.  1813.  Jan.  4.     Amos.  b.  1816.  Nov.  5. 
3.  John  and  wife  Abigail.  Ch.  Royal,  b.  1795.  Mav  22.  Abigail. 
b.  1800.  Julv  14:  m.  St-phen  Miller.  3.  James,  h.imi.  .Julv  12.  Mary. 
b.  1800.  March  3;  m.  Georire  Lvuian.  Lucy,  b.  1809.  Oct.  13.  Bradley. 
b.  1811.  D-c.  19.  Mehali  French,  b.  1814,  March  6.  Harriet,  b.  1817, 
June  4. 
4.  EHier.^011  and  wife  Prudence.  Ch.  Mary  Ann  Eliza,  b.  1830, 
Oct.  19. 
5  Abbot  and  wife  Martha.  Ch.  Martha  Adelaide,  b.  1837.  July  4. 
Elizabeth  Frances,  b.  1840.  Aug.  9.     Nelson  Abbot,  h.  1842.  Dec.  12. 
6.    Jonas  W.  and  wife  Sarah.     Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1841.  Mav  2G. 
SILTER.  Joseph  J.,  from  Epsom.  N.  H..  m.  1838.  Sept.  16,  Hannah 
Dana.  dau.  of  Samud.  He  d.  1S72.  July  22.  Ch.  3Iaria.  b.  1839.  Dec.  14; 
m.  Rev.  Horace  F.  Morse,  a  Methodist  minister,  who  died  in  the  South, 
1867.  Susan,  b.  1812.  April  19;  d.  1868,  Oct.  22.  Hsnry  Atwood.  h.  1848, 
Jun-2'):  d.  1871.  July  9. 
S.4NDERS.  1.  John  was  here  in  1671,  and  perhaps  earlier;  his 
origin  is  unkuuwn.  H,^  received  a  grant  of  a  .5-acre  right.  1682.  D3C.  25. 
His  house  was  South-East  of  Nortii  Billerica.  near  the  crossing  of  the 
highwav  by  th"  railroad.  He  m.  1671.  Oct.  16.  Marv  Farlev.  dau.  of 
George.'  1.'  Sh-  d.  1712.  -the  last  of  Aug.  He  d.  1726.  Julv  10."  Ch.  Mari>. 
b.  1672.  Jun  >  24.  and  d.  Aug.  9.  Hanah.  b.  1673-4.  3Iarch  27.  John.  2, 
b.  1677-8.  Feb.  16.  Mary.  b.  1680.  Oct.  29.  James,  b.  1684,  S?pt.  14, 
and  d.  Sept.  17. 
2.  John,  son  of  John.  1,  b.  1677-8.  Feb.  16;  m.  1706.  Sept.  3.  Hannah 
Dutton.  dau.  of  John.  3.  She  d.  1741.  March  31.  He  lived  in  Tewksburv. 
Ch.  John.  b.  1707.  April  2.  Mary.  b.  1708.  June  10;  m.  1738.  Sept.  25, 
Joseph  Jewett.  of  Grofon.  James.  3,  b.  1710.  Julv  26.  Ohadiah.  1,  b.  1712. 
Dec.  4.  Dirid.  5,  b.  1716.  April  14.  Hannah,  b.  1718.  April  16;  m» 
Sa-nuel  Hall.  2.  Sarah,  b.  1720-1.  Feb.  5.  Rachel  and  Esthr.  b.  1722-3. 
Jan.  17.  Esther  d.  1723.  Mav  9.  Jonas,  6,  b.  1725-6.  Feb.  23.  Benjamin,  7, 
b.  1730.  Julv  10.     Amos.  8,  b.  1731.  Aug.  20.     Abigail,  b.  1733.  June  1. 
 - 514 - 
SANDERS.  '  129 
3.  James,  sou  of  John.  2,  b.  1710.  July  :iG;  m.  1735.  April  14. 
Elizabeth  Frost,  dau.  of  James.  5,  He.  or  liis  son  James,  m.  1768.  Jan.  14. 
Sarah  Snow.  He  cl.  1780.  May  17.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1735-6.  Feb.  5. 
Joanna,  b.  1737.  Sept.  30.  James,  b.  1739.  Sept.  2.  Hannah,  b.  1741. 
June  7.  Sarah,  b.  1744.  May  10:  m.  1767.  July  9.  Benjamin  Temple,  of 
Tewksbury.  Jacob,  b.  1740.  July  20.  Esther.  b.'l748.  May  6;  m.  Benjamin 
Danforth.  23.     John.  9,  b.  1751.  Aug.  9.     Rebecca,  b.  1755.  Jan.  27. 
4.  Obadiah,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  1712.  Dec.  4:  m.  1742.  Sept.  14.  Mary 
Snow.  Ch.  Ebenezer,  b.  1743.  July  20:  d.  1769.  Xov.  17.  Solomon.  IQ^  b. 
1745.  Aug.  31.  Mary.  b.  1748.  July  27 :  m.  1788.  April  10.  James  Douglass. 
Susanna,  b.  1751.  April  5:    m.  Timothy  Crosby.  29. 
5.  Darid,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  1716.  April  14;  m.  1743.  Xov.  23. 
Abigail  Snow,  born  in  Wobum.  1722.  Oct.  14.  He  d.  1777.  May  10.  and  his 
widow  m.  Ralph  Hill.  11.  Ch.  Abigail,  b.  1744.  Oct.  11;  m.  1767.  Dec.  1. 
Xathan  Merrill,  of  Tewksbury.  David.  11,  b.  174.5-6.  Feb.  22.  Jonathan. 
b.  1747.  Dec.  3.  and  d.  1749.  Oct.  1.  Sarah,  b.  1749.  Xov.  6.  Jonathan. 
bap.  1751.  Dec.  1.  Ebenezer.  12,  b.  17.54.  Jan.  11.  Benjamin.  13,  b.  1755. 
Sept.  IS.  Judith,  b.  1757.  Aug.  10:  m.  1777.  Dec.  18.  Isaac  Levistone,  of 
Tewksbury  {see  5).  Patte.  b.  17.59.  Oct.  28;  m.  1783.  Dec.  4,  James 
Harwood.'of  Bedford,  X.  H.  Joshua,  14,  b.  1762.  April  1;  m.  1785. 
Feb.  20.  Lvdia  Chamberlain,  of  Chelmsford.  Anne.  b.  1765.  Jan.  27;  d. 
1766.  March  5. 
6.  Jonas.  William  Kidder,  as  guardian  of  Jonas  Sanders,  is  on 
tax-list  17.53-70.  He  Avas  prob.  son  of  Jonas,  son  of  John.  2.  He  m.  1770, 
Dec.  20.  Mary  Levistone.  dau.  of  Seth.  b.  She  d.  and  he  m.  1780.  April  18, 
Hannah  Frost,  widow  of  Joshua,  li.     Ch.  Mary.  b.  1787.  Jan.  31. 
7.  Benjamin,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  1730.  Julv  10;   m.  Elizabeth    . 
Ch.  Jonas,  b.  1765.  Xov.  25.  Elizabeth,  b.  1769.  Jan.  19;  m.  Jacob  Winn. 
Sibbel.  b.  1771.  June  27.     Hannah,  b.  1778.  June  17. 
8.  Amos,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  1731.  Aug.  20;  m.  Esther    .  Ch.  Esther. 
b.  1759.  Jan.  11.  Lucy.  b.  1760.  Sept.  6.  Jemima,  b.  1762.  Aug.  7.  Amos, 
b.  1764.  April  7.  Timothy,  b.  1766.  March  27.  Sarah,  b.  1767.  Xov.  11; 
prob.  m.  William  Chandler.  3.  Samuel,  b.  1769.  Sept.  23.  Anna.  b.  1774. 
July  22. 
9.  John,  son  of  James,  3,  b.  1751,  Aug.  9;  m.  1774.  Dec.  8.  Sail 
Merriam.  of  Wobum.  Ch.  John.  b.  1775,  July  31.  Sarah,  b.  1778. 
March  5.  Xabbe.  b.  1780.  Sept.  7 :  m.  1802.  Sept.  28,  Asa  Wright.  2.  Polly, 
bap.  1794.  Aug.  18. 
10.  Solomon,  son  of  Obadiah.  4,  b.  1745.  Aug.  31  ;  m.  1776.  April  2. 
Lvdia  Levistone.  dau.  of  Tliomas.  4.  Ch.  Lydia.  b.  1777.  Maj'  16.  Solomon, 
h'.  1780.  April  5.     Phebe.  b.  1782.  April  9.     Molly,  bap.  1785.  Aug.  21. 
11.  David,  son  of  Da^id.  5,  b.  174.5-6.  Feb.  22;  m.  1771.  Dec.  31, 
MoUv  Leviston.  dau.  of  Seth.  5.  Ch.  Ezra.  b.  1772.  Mav  1.  David, 
b.  17"73.  Xov.  28. 
12.  Ebenezer,  son  of  David.  5,  b.  17.54.  Jan.  11;  m.  1782.  Xov.  14. 
Patte  Hosley.  (see  1,)  who  d.  1784.  Oct.  13.  and  lie  m.  1786.  Feb.  9.  Patty 
Sticknev.  dau.  of  Eleazer.  4.  Eemoved  to  Fitzwilliam.  X.  H..  where  6  ch. 
were  b.'  Mrs.  S.  d.  18.54.  Oct.  29.  Ch.  Ebenezer.  b.  1783.  April  5;  d.  1786. 
Feb.  4.  Patte,  b.  1784.  Oct.  2;  d.  Oct.  13.  Ebenezer,  15,  b.  1786.  Dec.  10. 
Asa.  b.  1788.  Julv  4. 
13.  Benjamin,  son  of  David.  5,  b.  1755.  Sept.  18 ;  m.  3Iary  Stickney, 
dau.  of  Eleazer.  4.  Ch.  Benjamin,  b.  1785.  Feb.  12.  Polly,  b.  1786, 
Aug.  24:  m.  1807.  Feb.  10.  Call  Tufts.  Henry,  b.  1787.  Dec.  23.  Rizpah, 
b.  1789.  Dec.  10.  Fanny,  b.  1791.  Mav  7.  Martha,  b.  1794.  June  1.  Anna, 
b.  1796.  Feb.  9.     Allice.  b.  1798.  Aug.''l4.     Georrje.  b.  1800.  Feb.  14. 
14.  Joshua,  son  of  David.  5,  b.  1762.  April  1:  m.  1785.  Feb.  20, 
Lvdia  Chamberlain,  of  Chelmsford.     Ch.  Joshua,  bap.  1786.  Xov.  26. 
15.  Ebenezer  M.,  son  of  Ebenezer.  12,  b.  1786.  Dec.  10:    m.  Lydia 
  -.     Ch.  L'idia  Ann.  b.  1816.  Jan.  26:  d.  1817,  Feb.  19.    George,  b.  1817. 
June  16.     John.  16,  b.  1819,  March  23.     Sarah,  b.  1821,  Feb.  24.     Lydia 
 - 515 - 
130  SANDERS  —  SHED. 
Amu  b.  1823.  April  13.  Charles  Henry,  b.  1825,  May  20.  Andrew,  b.  1827, 
Jtlarc'h  3.  Edvnn,  b.  1829,  Feb.  22.  3Iartha.  Sumner.  Hannah  Maria,. 
b.  1839,  Oc<^  8. 
16.  John,  son  of  Ebenezer  M..  16,  b.  1819,  March  23;  m.  Almira 
  .     He  (I.  1849.  Jan.  5.     Ch.  John  Henry,  h.  1844.  Nov.  9. 
17.  Loammi  m.  1833,  Dec.  1,  Sarah  Morse,  of  Xorthfield,  N.  H. 
SCHOOLER,  William,  b.  in  Glasgow,  Scotland,  1810;  m.  Mary  Clark, 
of  Wells,  Me.  She  cl.  1843,  June  23.  aged  33,  and  he  m.  1845,  Feb.  25, 
Susan  E.  Wormwood,  of  Kennebunk,  Me.  Ch.  Margaret  Clark,  b.  1841, 
May  23.     Jennette  Elizabeth,  b.  1847,  March  25. 
SCOT.  1.  Benjamin,  prob.  of  Braintree,  ''had  leave  to  live  in  y« 
Town,"  1660.  Dec.  19.  but  does  not  seem  to  have  used  it. 
2.  Peter,  prob.  l)rother  of  Benjamin.  1,  was  in  town  1677,  and  in 
arrears  of  minister's  rate. 
SHARP,  Robert,  pi'ob.  son  of  John,  of  Boston,  and  gr.-son  of  Robert, 
of  Braintree.  and  b.  1665;  m.  Mary   ,  and  d.  1693,  Aug.  26,  "at  Welds." 
Ch.  Robert.  \>.  1688.  April  13.  William,  b.  1689-90,  Jan.  31.  Mary, 
b.  1691-2,  Feb.  21. 
SUED.  1.  Daniel  was  from  Braintree.  He  was  in  Billerica  in  1659, 
and  bought  of  Geoige  Willice  the  original  '"right''  of  Joseph  Parker,  or  an 
"eight  acre  lot."  His  house-lot  was  ■■  twenty  and  three  acres  of  land,  be  it 
more  or  lesse,  lying  upon  the  townshii),  and  is  bounded  bj^  Jacob  Browne 
on  the  Nortli  ;  
by  the  [Rev.]  Mr.  Whiting  on  the  South  ;  
by  Concord  river 
W^est,  and  by  tlie  highway  by  y**  brooke  on  y"^  East  ;  also,  he  is  bounded 
on  the  South  partly  by  Jo"-  Sterues,  his  land  upon  y«  townshij^  ;  also,  it  is 
divided  neere  y"^  East  end  by  Concord  road  lying  crosse  it  four  poles 
wide."  This  grant  nmst  liave  included  Mr.  Whitman's  place,  or  Mr. 
AVbiting's.  and  perhaps  both;  and  a  comparison  with  the  grant  to  Patten 
shows  that  a  highway  along  the  brook  was  reserved  by  the  early  settlers. 
He  m.  Mary    ,  anil  2d.  Elizabeth    .     Probably  one  of  his  Avives  was 
dau.  of  John  Gurney,  Avhom  he  calls  "father."  Elizabeth,  his  wife, 
d.  1099-1700,  Jan.  17.  He  d.  1708,  July  27.  Ch.  3Iary.  b.  1648,  March  8; 
m.  John  Rogers,  2.  Daniel,  2,  b.  1649,  Aug.  30.  Hannah,  b.  1651.  Sept.  7; 
m.  Thomas  Rogers,  3.  John,  3,  b.  1655,  March  2.  Elizabeth  and 
Zechariah.  4,  b.  1656,  June  17.  Elizabeth  m.  Samuel  Farley.  8.  Sarah, 
b.  1658,  Oct.  30;  m.  John  Dutton,  3.  Samuel,  5,  b.  1660.  Aug.  13.  Susan, 
b.  1662,  Dec.  28.  Unice,  b.  1664-5,  March  19;  m.  John  Levistone,  1. 
Nathan,  6,  b.  1668-9,  Feb.  5. 
•  2.  Daniel,  son  of  Daniel,  1,  b.  1649,  Aug.  30;  ra.  1670,  July  5.  Ruth 
More,  dau.  of  Golden.  He  lived  on  the  great  plain  near  North  Billerica; 
d.  of  small-pox.  1690.  Oct.  24.  Ch.  Bichard.  b.  1671,  July  21;  d.  Aug.  6. 
Daniel,  7,  b.  1672-3,  Feb.  27.  Abigail,  b.  1677-8,  Jan.  3;  prob.  m.  John 
Farmer.  2.  Experience,'  h.  1679-80,  Jan.  29,  and  d.  Jan.  31.  Hannah, 
b.  1681-2.  Feb.  13,  and  d.  March  3.  Buth,  b.  1684,  Aug.  20;  m.  John 
Levistone,  2.  Dorotliy,  b.  1687-8,  Feb.  22,  and  d.  of  smuU-pox,  1690, 
Oct.  23. 
3.  John,  son  of  Daniel,  1,  b.  1655,  March  2 ;  m.  1676-7,  Jan.  9,  Sarah 
Chamberlain,  diiu.  of  Thomas,  1.  She  d.  1735-6.  Jan.  17;  he  d.  1736-7, 
Jan.  31.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1678,  Nov.  3;  m.  Nathan  Crosby,  4.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1681-2,  Jan.  7;  m.  Ebenezer  Farley,  5.  Benoni,  b.  1684.  June  11,  and 
d.  June  26.  Bebecca,  b.  1685,  May  21 ;  m.  Joshua  Abbot.  1.  John,  b.  1687, 
July  6.  3Iary,  b.  1689,  Dec.  7;  m.  Abraham  Chamberlain,  7.  Dorothy, 
b.  1691-2,  Jan.  14;  m.  Samuel  Danforth,  6.  Hannah,  b.  1693-4.  March  23; 
m.  her  cousin  Nathan.  9.  Benjamin,  8,  b.  1696,  Aug.  5.  Jemimah,  b- 
1698-9,  Jan.  18 ;  m.  Jolm  Wilson,  3. 
4.  Zcchary,  son  of  Daniel,  1,  b.  1656,  June  17 ;  
lived  near  his  brother 
Daniel  on  the  great  plain  where  his  wife  and  two  children  were  killed  by 
Indians.  1692,  Aug.  1.  He  m.  Ann  Bray,  widow.  1077-8,  Jan.  16,  and  2d, 
Lydia  Farley,  dau.  of  Caleb,  2,  A\ho  d.*1702.  April  9,  aged  32,  and  he  m. 
1702,  July  13,  Hannah  Harris.     He  d.  in  Chelmsford.    His  will  was  dated 
 - 516 - 
SHED.  131 
1735.  May  2,  and  entered  July  24.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1(378-9,  March  11; 
killed  with  her  mother.  James,  b.  1680-1,  March  13.  Ekenezer,  b.  1683, 
Dec.  29.  ZecJiariah,  b.  1685.  April  21.  Nathan,  h.  1687.  Oct.  26.  Angus, 
b.  1690,  Sept.  9 ;  killed  by  Indians.  Liddia,  b.  1693,  Dec.  18.  Ehenezer,  b. 
1695-6,  March  14;  m.  Abigail  Ireland  and  lived  in  Medford,  where  he  d. 
1770,  April  17.  One  of  his  sons  was  Zechariah,  who  had  15  children,  one 
of  whom  was  Rev.  Marshall  Shedd.  D.  G.,  1817,  and  pastor  in  Acton 
1820-31,  where  was  b.  his  son  AV^illiam  G.  T.  Shed,  u.d.,  distinguished  as 
an  author  and  theological  professor  at  Andover  and  Union  Theological 
Seminary,  N.  Y.  Joseph,  b.  1698,  Oct.  26.  Josiah,  b.  1703,  Aug.  18. 
Hannah,  b.  1705,  Dec.  23.  Prudence,  b.  1707-8,  Feb.  13.  Silence,  b.  1710. 
May  9,  and  d.  June  10.  BacheL  b.  1713-4.  Feb.  17.  Benjamin,  mentioned  . 
in  '  
will '  
of  his  father. 
5.  Samuel,  son  of  Daniel.  1,  b.  1660,  Aug.  13;   m.  Elizabeth    . 
Ch.  Samuel,  b.  in  Chelmsford,  1690,  June  30.  Daniel,  b.  in  Billerica,  1692-3, 
Jan.  11;  lived  in  Groton;  had  4  ch.  ;  d.  1723,  Oct.  2.  Jonathan,  b.  in 
Chelmsford,  1696,  Sept.  16;  m.  Sarah  Barron  and  lived  in  Gi-oton;  had  7 
ch.  Sarah,  b.  1700,  Oct.  28,  and  lived  in  Groton.  Esther,  b.  1703. 
March  24;  m.  Ephraim  Pierce.  John,  b.  1700,  Dec.  21.  Abigail,  b.  1708, 
Nov.  7.     Martha,  b.  1717-8,  March  9. 
6.  Nathan,  son  of  Daniel,  1,  b.  1668-9,  Feb.  5;  m.  Mary  French, 
dau.  of  John,  2.  He  d.  1736,  June  18.  She  d.  1740,  Aug.  21.  having  prob. 
m.  William  Manning,  4.  Ch.  Xathan,  9,  b.  1695.  May  23.  3Iary,  b.  1697. 
June  22.  John,  10,  b.  1699,  Sept.  6.  litith,  b.  1701,  June  7;  m.  Daniel 
Kittredge.  12.  Elizabeth,  b.  1703.  June  18.  Priscilla,  b.  1705,  Aug.  2. 
William,  11,  b.  1707,  Aug.  28.     Abigail,  b.  1700,  April  12;   m.  Xathaniel 
Hill,  12.     Daniel,  b.  1710.  Oct.  20 ;  m.  Rebecca    ,  
and  lived  in  Tewksbury  ; 
had  Rebecca  b.  1737.  Dec.  3.  and  Willard  b.  1739.  Aug.  18.  He  d.  1743, 
Oct.  24,  and  his  wife  d.  1747,  Dec.  4.  X.  B.  This  Daniel  and  12,  perhaps, 
should  exchange  places. 
7.  Daniel,  son  of  Daniel,  2,  b.  1672-3,  Feb.  27;  m.  1706.  Dec.  17, 
Rebecca  Dutton,  dau.  of  Thomas.  2.  He  d.  1715.  Dec.  29,  and  she  m. 
Nicholas  Sprake,  1.     Ch.  Daniel,  12,  b.  1713-4,  Jan.  7. 
8.  Benjamin,  son  of  John,  3,  b.  1696,  Aug.  5 ;   m.  Abial    .     She 
d.  1736-7,  March  21,  and  he  m.  1738,  April  11.  Elizabeth  Hill,  dau.  of 
Joseph,  8.  Captain  Shed  d.  1770.  Oct..  9.  Ch.  Rebecca,  b.  1720.  June  5; 
m.  John  Dutton,  10.  John,  b.  1722,  June  1.  Sarah,  b.  1723-4,  March  4, 
and  d.  1725,  Oct.  28.  Elizabeth,  b.  1725-6,  Jan.  11 ;  m.  Ebenezer  Richard- 
son, 11.  Benjamin,  13,  b.  1727.  Dec.  17.  Joanna,  b.  1729-30.  Jan.  27; 
m.  David  Danforth,  11.  Samuel,  14,  b.  1731-2,  March  5.  Sarah,  b.  1735, 
June  5.  Esther,  b.  1738-9,  Feb.  4;  m.  1763.  Nov.  3.  Nathaniel  Patten,  of 
Stafford  (see  4).  Joseph,  15,  b.  1740-1.  Feb.  9.  Jonathan,  b.  1743.  Aug.  26. 
Asa,  b.  1745,  Sept.  1.     Abial,  b.  1747-8,  Feb.  13. 
9.  Nathan,  son  of  Nathan,  6,  b.  1695,  May  23;  m.  1717,  Nov., 
Hannah,  Ms  cousin,  dau.  of  Jolm,  3,  who  d.  1756,  July  26.  He  lived  in 
Tewksbury;  d.  1757,  March  24.  Ch.  Xathan,  b.  1718,  Nov.  5.  and  d.  1731. 
Oct.  1.  John,  b.  1720.  Oct.  17;  m.  1744,  Dec.  26.  Hannah  Ross,  dau.  of 
Thomas.  4.  Hannah,  b.  1722.  Aug.  4.  Mary,  b.  1724,  Sept.  23.  Jacob,  b. 
1726,  Aug.  2.  Jonathan,  b.  1728,  Oct.  29.  Sarah,  b.  1731.  April  13. 
Abigail,  b.  1732-3.  Feb.  1.  Nathan,  b.  1734-5,  March  4.  Rebecca,  h.  1736, 
Dec.  27.     Elizabeth,  b.  1741,  Sept.  17;   d.  1749.  Aug.  22. 
10.  John,  son  of  Nathan,  6,  b.  1699,  Sept.  6;  m.  1724,  Sept.  6, 
Elizabeth  Farley,  dau.  of  Ebenezer,  5.  Lieutenant  Shed  d.  1754.  Jan.  3. 
Ch.  John,  b.  1725,  May  3,  and  d.  Dec.  7.  Elizabeth,  b  1726.  Nov.  17. 
Rebecca,  b.  1728-9,  Feb.  17;  m.  1757.  March  13.  David  Burge,  of  Chelms- 
ford. John,  16,,b.  1731-2,  Jan.  27.  Sarah,  b.  1734,  July  6.  and  d.  July  23. 
Ebenezer,  b.  1735-6,  Jan.  3 ;  m.  1758,  May  30,  Thankful  Fletcher,  of 
Chelmsford.  Zaccheus,  b.  1738,  Oct.  28.  and  d.  1758,  Oct.  23.  Mar^,  b.  1741, 
June  19;   m.  1761,  May  21.  Jonathan  Gates,  of  Harvard. 
 - 517 - 
132  SHED. 
11.  William,  son  of  Nathan.  6,  b.  1707.  Aus^.  28;  m.  1733.  Dec.  26, 
Mary  Farintn-.  daii.  of  Edward,  3.  He  d.  1782,  Feb.  27.  Ch.  William,  17, 
b.  1734.  Sept.  39.  Aathan,  b.  1736.  Jiine  1.  and  d.  1756,  Maj^  24. 
Tho7nas,  18,  b.  1738.  June  10.  3Iary,  b.  1743,  July  4;  m.  1763,  Dec.  20, 
Abner  Kej'es.  of  Dunstable. 
12.  Daniel,  son  of  Daniel.  7,  b.  1713-4.  Jan.  7;  m.  1733-4,  Jan.  8, 
Rebecca  Farley,  prob.  dau.  of  George.  6,  She  d.  childless,  and  he  m. 
Abigail  Patten,  dau.  of  Kendall,  6.  Ch.  Abigail,  b.  1739,  Sept.  7;  m. 
Reuben  Lewis  (see  2).  Daniel,  b.  1741,  Dec.  5.  Rebecca,  b.  ]744, 
March  27.  and  d.  1746,  May  22.  Joseph,  b.  1746.  July  15,  and  d. 
Beuben,  19,  b.  1748,  July  27;  bap.  May  29  (?).  Joseph,  20,  b.  1751, 
Oct.  13.  Bebecca,\>.  1754,  May  13;  m.  Joseph  Osgood  {see'^).  Alice.   h. 
1757,  Sept.  2;  m.  1782,  Sept.  5,  Daniel  TWiss,  of  "'Ipswich  in  New 
Hampshire." 
13.  Benjamin,  son  of  Benjamin.  8,  b.  1727.  Dec.  17;   m.  Kezia    . 
He  d.  1760.  Dec.  19,  and  she  m.  David  Stickney.  6.  Ch.  Benjamin,  b.  1756. 
Dec.  13;  d.  1762,  Jan.  22.  David,  b.  1759,  March  19.  Kezia,  b.  1760, 
May  25. 
14.  Samuel,  son  of  Benjamin,  8,  b.  1731-2,  March  5;  m.  1758,  June  8, 
Hannah  Jaquith.  dau.  of  Abraham.  1.  He  d.  1768,  Sept.  11,  and  she  d. 
1804,  Dec.  28.  Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1759.  April  10.  and  d.  Hannah,  b.  1761, 
April  18;  m.  Edward  Farmer.  13.  Bebccca.  h.  1763,  June  19.  Bachel,  b. 
1765.  June  26;   d.  1845,  Feb.  16.     Samuel,  b.  1768.  Nov.  1. 
15.  Joseph,  son  of  Benjamin.  8,  b.  1740-1.  Feb.  9;  m.  1773.  Jan.  7, 
Rebecca  Needhara,  dau.  of  Benjamin.  3.  Ch.  Bebecca,  b.  1773,  Oct.  19; 
m.  John  Dandlev,  Alice,  b.  1775.  April  14.  Benjamin,  b.  1780,  June  24. 
Dennis,  b.  1783,  July  6.     John,  b.  1789;   d.  1845.  Feb.  17. 
16.  John,  son  of  John,  10,  b.  1731-2,  Jan.  27;  ni.  1755.  Oct.  22, 
Martha  Hosley.  dau.  of  Thomas.  2.  She  d.  1797.  Nov.  28,  and  he  d. 
Dec.  2.  Ch.  Martha,  h.  1756,  July  19;  m.  Timothy  Davis.  5.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1758,  Feb.  25;  m.  Oliver  Richardson,  22.  John,  21,  b.  1760.  March  7. 
Lzicy.  b.  1762,  March  6;  d.  1781,  April  10.  Bhoda,  b.  1764,  Feb.  8;  m. 
John  Rogers.  13.     Zacchens.  22,  b.  1766.  Feb.  4. 
17.  William,  son  of  William.  11,  b.  1734.  Sept.  19;  m.  1763.  Jan.  13, 
Susanna  Johnson,  dau.  of  Josiah.   1.      She  d.  1772,  June  6,  and  he  m. 
Elizabeth     .     Ch.   Nathan,  b.  1763,  April  30.     Nathaniel   Hill.  b.  1764, 
July  6.  Molly,  b.  1766,  Nov.  3.  William,  b.  1768,  Sept.  13.  Benjamin, 
b.  1770,  Oct.  12.  Jacob  Johnson  and  Samuel  Eastman,  b.  1777,  Feb.  28. 
Bett'i.  b.  1779.  March  27. 
18.  Thomas,  son  of  William,  11,  b.  1738,  June  10;  m.  1764,  Dec.  13, 
Hannah  Wilson,  dau.  of  Jacob,  4.  Ch.  //aH««/i.  b.  1766.  March  20;  m. 
Benjamin  Russell,  1.  Sarah,  b.  1767,  Oct.  8;  m.  1795,  Dec.  24,  Solomon 
Andrews,  Carlisle.  Brudence,  b.  1769,  Oct.  4;  m.  Thomas  Spalding,  5. 
Thomas,  b.  1775.  Aug.  17;  d.  1776,  April  21. 
19.  Reuben,  son  of  Daniel,  12,  b.  1748.  July  27;  m.  17'71,  Feb.  12, 
Sibbel  Bullard.  of  Weston.  He  d.  1781.  April  30.  and  she  m.  Moses 
Carleton,  4.  Ch.  Daniel,  h.  1771,  June  26,  and  d.  1775,  Oct.  13.  Alice, 
b.  1773,  Dec.  2,  and  d.  1775,  Oct.  2.  Daniel,  b.  1776,  April  4.  George, 
b.  1778,  Feb.  28.     Beitbeu,  b.  1780,  Nov.  24. 
20.  Joseph,  son  of  Daniel,  12,  b.  1751,  Oct.  13;  ra.  1778.  Nov.  10, 
Mary  Ruggles,  dau.  of  Joseph,  3.  Ch.  Nabby,  Molly,  Sally,  all  bap.  1785, 
July  17. 
21.  John,  son  of  John,  16,  b.  1760,  March  7;  m.  1778,  Dec.  24.  Sarah 
Sprake,  dau.  of  Nicholas,  3,  and  1784.  Nov.  24,  Rachel  Danforth,  dau.  of 
David,  17.  Ch.  Bachel,  b.  1786,  Jan.  24.  Esther,  bap.  1786,  Nov.  26  (?). 
3Birtha.  bap.  1788,  June  3.     L^icy,  b.  1789.  Nov.  23. 
22.  Zaccheus,  son  of  John.  16,  b.  1766,  Feb.  4;  m.  iliriam  Wright, 
of  Bucksport.  Me.  He  d.  1822,  Sept.  27.  Ch.  Daniel.  23,  b.  1786.  July  15. 
Bhoda.  b.  1788,  April  28.  Martha,  b.  1790,  March  23 ;  m.  Benjamin  Foster, 
(see  13).     Miriam,  b.  1792,  July  17.     Zaccheus,  25,  b.  1794,  July  7.     Zoa, 
 - 518 - 
SHED  —  SHELDON.  133 
b.  1796,  Aug.  3;  m.  Noah  Harrod.  John.  b.  1798,  Aug.  9;  m.  1821,  June  5, 
Asenath  Stearns.  Laviua,  b.  1800,  Out.  24: ;  
d.  1814,  Sept.  l(i.  Jliifus, 
b.  1802,  Oct.  26;  m.  and  lived  in  Illinois.  Louisa,  b.  1804.  Dec.  10;  d.  1805, 
April  13.  Gardner,  b.  1807.  March  9;  d.  June  22.  William  Gardner 
b.  1808.  July  10;  lived  in  N.  H.  Louisa,  b.  1810,  April  8,  and  d.  1814, 
Nov.  29. 
23.  Daniel,  son  of  Zaccheus,  22,  b.  1786,  July  1.5;  m.  1823,  May  8, 
Martha  Holden.  dau.  of  William,  of  Woburn.  She  d.  1830,  Jan.  31,  aged 
33,  and  he  ni.  1836,  Dec,  Sarah  Hayden,  of  Hollis.  He  d.  1808,  April  23, 
in  Hollis,  and  she  d.  1876,  March  28.  C'h.  Daniel,  26,  b.  1824,  Jan.  2. 
Albert,  b.  1838,  Jan.  29;  lives  in  Nashua.  Martha,  b.  1841,  May  24;  d.  in 
Hollis,  18.54,  Sept.  18. 
24.  Thomas,  son  of  Jacob,  of  Tewksbury,  b.  1786,  Jan.  21 ;  m.  1816, 
Dec.  29.  Martha  Baldwin,  dau.  of  Nahain.  16.  She  d.  1838,  Oct.  16,  and 
he  d.  1873,  Oct.  3.  Ch.  Martha,  b.  1817,  Dec.  1.  Thomas  B.,  27,  b.  1819, 
Oct.  14.     Maria,  b.  1822,  Nov.  16. 
25.  Zaccheus,  son  of  Zaccheus.  22,  b.  1794,  July  7;  m.  1820,  Feb.  6, 
Nancy  Danforth.  dau.  of  Joseph,  22.  She  d.  1820,  Dec.  28.  and  he 
m.  1823,  Nov.  3,  Caroline  French,  dau.  of  Luther,  28.  He  d.  1854.  Sept.  7. 
She  is  living  in  Lowell.  Ch.  Edwin  Luther,  b.  1824,  April  2;  d.  1866, 
Oct.  30.  Helen  Caroline,  b.  1825,  Dec.  7;  ni.  John  P.  Roberts,  of  Lowell. 
Abhy  Bowers,  b.  1827,  Dec.  16;  m.  Henry  O.  Wynian,  of  Lowell.  Harriet 
Augusta,  b.  1828,  Nov.  17;  d.  1847.  Oct.  17.  Josiah  Bowers  French,  b.  1830, 
July  24;  lives  in  Boston.  Elizabeth  Gordon,  b.  1832.  March  27,  in  Lowell; 
m.  Henrv  T.  Hart. 
26.  'Daniel,  son  of  Daniel.  23,  b.  1824,  Jan.  2;  m.  18.50,  Jan.  14, 
Lucretia  Miller,  of  Monterey,  Mass.  She  d.  1862,  July  13,  and  he  m.  1879, 
Feb.  6.  Mary  J.  Sanborn,  dau.  of  Hugh  M..  of  Billerica.  He  is  a 
machinist,  employed  in  the  Boston  and  Maine  Railroad  shops.  Ch.  Mary 
Jane,  b.  1852,  June  6;  d.  1853,  July  9.  Martha  Ellen,  b.  1854,  Oct.  17,  and 
d.  in  Mendota,  111.,  1873,  May  1. 
27.  Thomas  R.,  son  of  Thomas,  24,  b.  1819,  Oct.  14;  m.  1858, 
Jan.  1,  Adelaide  E.  Robbins,  of  Natick.  He  d.  1871,  Nov.  13,  and  she  m. 
Hiram  E.  Dutton,  11.  Ch.  Thomas  F.,h.  1859.  July  11;  d.  Charles  H, 
b.  1861.  May  14.     Annie  Tolman,  b.  1862.  Sept.  22. 
SHELDON.  1.  John  was  here  in  1658,  signing  the  Parker  and 
Whiting  agreements.  Godfrey  Sheldon  of  Scarborough,  who  d.  in  1671, 
had  sons  John  and  William,  who  may  be  the  Billerica  brothers.  William 
Sheldon,  ''1659.9,  on  condition  that  he  build  a  mill  to  grind  corn,  within 
two  years,  is  granted  an  8  acre  lott,  to  be  free  from  former  charges  of  the 
minister's  house,  until  the  year  begins  for  y"^  minister's  maintenance,  and 
lie  to  begin  in  chai-ges  with  us."  Forty-four  acres  were  laid  out  to  him 
"on  the  side  of  fox  hill  joining  to  the  highway  by  fox  meadow  corner, 
leading  to  the  common  beyond,  his  brother  John  Sheldon's  land  North,  fox 
hill  So'uth,  comans  East  and  West."  This  grant  was  declared  invalid,  1663, 
Nov.,  "the  condition  not  being  performed,"  and  William  did  not  settle 
here.  The  brothers  complained  of  injustice,  and  John  left  the  town  for  a 
thne.  living  in  Woburn.  In  1674,  March  30,  the  town  "considering  the 
unquietness  of  his  spirit,  and  being  willing  he  should  again  returne  to  the 
towne  and  settle  upon  his  owne,"  granted  to  John  Sheldon,  40  acres  joining 
"to  his  owne  lot  at  foxes  farm."  with  some  desired  exchange  of  road, 
"provided,  always,  that  the  said  John  Sheldon  gives  under  his  hand,  that 
this  shall  be  a  final  end  of  all  difference  between  William  Sheldon  and  this 
town  about  mill  or  mills,  and.  a  final  end  of  all  complaints  made  by  AVilliam 
and  John  Sheldon  aforesaid,  against  this  town,  of  wrong  done  to  them  by 
the  town,  in  reference  to  lands  and  divisions."  Mr.  Sheldon's  house  stood 
South-East  of  the  Andover  road,  probably  on  Mr.  Kimball's  land,  his 
27  acres  being  bounded  "with  East  street  West;  John  Marshall,  now 
[i.  e.  in  1696,  when  the  grant  was  transcribed,]  Samuel  Frost,  South,  and 
with  the  comans  East  and  North."    Marshall,   who  lived  farther  South- 
 - 519 - 
134  SHELDON  —  SNOW. 
Easit.  had  a  'way"  across  his  land  to  the  road.  In  1691,  Nov.  30,  "there  is 
lai<l  out  unto  .Tolni  Sheldon,  six  acres  of  uphvnd  *  lying  the  next  to  the 
east  side  of  his  own  home  lott.  It  lycth  seventy-four  pole  in  length  at  that 
side  next  his  lot,  and  tivety  and  eight  pole  in  length  on  the  east  side  next 
the  eonnnons,  and  eighteen  i)ole.  perpendicular  in  Avidth;  boinided  by  the 
town  couunons  on  the  south-east  anfl  north-east;  by  the  highway  unto 
Sergt.  Jacob  French's  house  Northward,  and  in  it  there  is  also  allowance 
of  one  rod  wide  next  unto  John  Sheldon's  home-lot  afores^,  for  to  pass  to 
the  brick  kills  with  carts,  etc..  though  no  open  highway."  He  m.  1658-9, 
Feb.  1.  ]Mary  Tompson  widow  of  Simon,  of  Woburn;  d.  1690.  May  24, 
aged  63.     Cli.  John.  2.  b.  1660.  April  24. 
2.  John,  just  ujcntioned,  m.  1690,  Nov.  20.  Deborah  Hill,  dau. 
of  IJalph,  2.  He  was  for  many  vears  deacon  ;  
d.  1724.  Aug.  27 ;  
his  widow' 
d.  1729-30.  Jan.  11.  Ch.  John/h.  1691.  July  29,  and  d.  Aug.  24.  Mary, 
b.  1692,  Oct.  18;  ni.  Peter  Hunt.  6.  iSamn<-l.''i,  b.  1694.  April  9.  Deborah. 
b.  1698.  Mav  16.  and  d.  Dec.  24.     Hannah,  b.  1700,  Aug.  18. 
3.  Samuel,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1694,  April  9;  ni.  1718-9,  Jan.  22, 
Sarah  Hutchinson,  of  Charlestown.  She  d.  1773,  Feb.  23;  he  d.  1777, 
May  14.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1719.  Oct.  6;  m.  John  Center,  1.  3Iary.  b.  1721, 
Aug.  1.  Deborah,  b.  1723,  Oct.  23;  m.  1750,  Feb.  28,  Isaac  Lovejoy. 
of  Andover.  Sanmel.  b.  1725-6,  Jan.  1,  and  d.  Jan.  26.  Bebecca.  b.  1727. 
July  28 ;  m.  Simon  Blanchard,  4.  John.  b.  1729,  Nov.  27,  and  d.  Dec.  7. 
Priidpncp.  b.  1732.  Aug.  31;  m.  David  Abbot,  6. 
SIMONS,  William,  son  of  Benjamin,  of  Woburn,  b.  1678-9,  Feb.  14; 
m.  Elizabeth    ,  who  d.  1712.  Sept.  5,  and  he  m.  Sarah  Baldwin,  dau.  of, 
John,  2.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1705,  Nov.  26.  William,  b.  1707,  Nov.  .4. 
Bebecca.  b.  1710,  April  30;  m.  Thomas  Danforth,  4.  Joseph^  b.  1712, 
July  17;  d.  1728.  April  10.  Benjamin,  b.  1720-1.  Feb.  11.  8ara,h,  b.  1724, 
March  25.     Judith,  b.  1726-7,  March  12. 
SKILTON.     [So  spelled  in  our  Records  ;  often  Skelton]. 
1,  John  appears  on  our  tax-lists.  1770.  He  was  the  son.  of  Thomas, 
of  Woburn,  whose  descent  is  traced  (in  a  MS.  letter  of  Eev.  Samuel 
Sewall,  1848,)  from  Rev.  Samuel,  the  early  pastor  at  Salem,  in  the  line: 
Samuels  Joseph\  Thomas*,  and  Thomas^  Our  John  was  b.  1744,  Dec.  31, 
and  m.  1768,  Feb.  2,  Joanna  Johnson;  lived  in  the  South-East  part  of  the 
town,  and  d.  1821,  June  10.  No  record  is  found  of  the  birth  or  baptism  of 
his  children,  but  his  will  names  these:  Ch.  John.  b.  1771,  Feb.  4;  m.  1809, 
May  14,  Sally  Jaques.  of,  Wilmington,  and  d.  in  Charlestown,  1824,  Oct.  1. 
leaving  ch.  John  and  George,  now  of  Somerville;  Edward;  James,  now  of 
Wilmington,  and  Sarah.  Matthew,  who  had  the  homestead,  b.  1773,  Oct.  26, 
and  d.  1842,  Oct.  7,  in  Charlestown.  Benjamin.  Thomas,  b.  1779,  Dec.  16; 
grad.  H.  C.,  1806;  ordained.  Foxboro'.  Mass.,  1808.  Nov.  2;  dis.  1815, 
Feb.  25;  installed.  Enosburg,  Vt.,  1822,  July  3;  dis.  1825,  March  25,  and  d. 
in  Ashbumham.  1838,  May  8.  He  m.  Emma  Willard,  dau.  of  Jacob, 
of  Ashbumham,  who  was  b.  1777,  Dec.  18.  and  is  still  living  in  Boston,  a 
vigorous  and  happy  centenarian,  having  been  an  inmate  of  the  Home  for 
Aged  Women  since  1857.  Alfred,  who  d.  before  1821,  leaving  heirs.  Ann 
ra.  Amos  Haggitt,  and  Joanna  m.  David  Fosdick. 
SMITH.  1.  Alexander  and  wife  Mary.  Ch.  Amies,  b.  1722,  Oct.  11. 
Mary.  b.  1724,  Aug.  23.  S^isanna.  b.  1726,  June  25.  Alexander.,  b.  1728, 
Nov.  25.     Batrage,  d.  1729,  June  9.     Joseph,  b.  1730.  June  27. 
2.  Thomas.  Ch.  bap.,  Louisa  Philip.  1804,  Aug.  19.  Elizabeth  Bogers. 
1806,  Julv  13.  Sarah  Bogers,  1809,  June  25.  Betsey  Kittredge.  1815, 
Oct.  19.    'Thomas.  1820,  Oct.  15. 
SNOW.  1.  Richard  was  in  town.  1733.  Richard,  of  Wobum,  was 
among  its  earliest  inhabitants,  buying  George  Farley's  place,  after  he  came 
to  Billerica.  His  son  Samuel  was  father  of  Richard,  b.  1683,  Dec.  10,  who 
was  prob.  our  Richard,  1.  It  is  not  clear  whether  he  had  a  son  Richard 
who  m.,  or  himself  m.  1738.  May  10,  Bethiah  Parker,  dau.  of  Benjamin.  6. 
Mary  Snow  m.  Obadiah  Sanders,  4,  and  Abigail  Snow  m.  David  Sanders,  5, 
perhaps  sisters  of  Richard.  He  d.  1762.  Ch.  Bichard,  2,  b.  1746,  June  11. 
Perhaps  Sarah  who  m.  James  Sanders.  3. 
 - 520 - 
SNOW  —  SPAULDING.  ]35 
2.  Richard,  son  of  Eichaid.  1,  b.  1746,  June  11  ;  m.  Lydia    .    His 
widow  m.  1793,  Jan.  22,  Joshua  Eames.  Ch.  Lijdia,  b.  1770,  Feb.  15;  m. 
John  Wriglit.  and  lived  in  Denuiarlv.  Me.  Joshua,  h.  1773,  May  1,  m.  and 
lived  in  Denmarlv.  Jahiu  3,  b.  1774,  July  5.  Silas,  b.  1778,  Feb.  21 ;  
had  a 
family,  and  d.  in  Bridge  water.  Josiah.  4,  b.  1781,  April  25.  Sallij.  b.  1783, 
Dec.  14;  m.  Reuben  Hunt,  of  Charlestown.  Francis,  b.  1787,  April  24; 
lived  in  Wilmington  ;  had  8  children.  James,  b.  1790,  July  2 ;  
lived 
in  Denmark,  Me. 
3.  John,  son  of  Richard,  2,  b.  1774.  July  5;  m.  1798,  Feb.  4,  Dorcas 
Abbot,  dau.  of  David,  6.  Ch.  John,  b,  1798,  Jiily  20;  d.  1824.  David  Abbot 
b.  1799,  Nov.  13 ;  
d.  1820.  Sud,  b.  1801,  Feb.  24;  had  3  children  in  Grafton, 
Vt.  ;  went  to  California.  Liicretia,  b.  1802.  Dec.  4;  m.  Simeon  Jefts  (see  7) 
and  lived  in  Lowell.  Lavinia,  b.  1804,  May  1 ;  m.  I'homas  K.  Richardson,  36. 
Julia,  b.  1805,  Dye.  20;  d.  1807,  July  28.  Julia,  b.  1808,  Jan.  15;  m.  John 
Turner,  of  LowelL  Clarissa,  b.  1811,  Dec.  5;  m.  James  Gardner  Hunt, 
of  Boston. 
4.  Josiah,  son  of  Richard,  2,  b.  1781.  April  25;  m.  1797,  May  14, 
Azubah  Hill.  dau.  of  Jonathan,  15,  and  1804.  Nov.  11.  Betsey  Parker.  He 
died  in  Grafton.  Vt.  In  1811.  Sept.  30,  these  four  children  of  Azubah  Snow 
were  bap.  :     Charles;  Lucy  Hill  ;   Harvey,  and  Alexander  Hill. 
SOLEY.  John,  came  to  Billerica  from  Charlestown  about  1785,  and 
d.  1801,  Nov.  18,  aged  79.  His  ancestry  and  family  are  given  by  Wyman. 
His  dau.  Hannah  m.  William  G.MacCarty. 
SOLLENDINE,  John,  was  in  Billerica,  1679,  with  his  minister's  rates 
not  paid.  In  1683  he  was  in  Dunstable  and  employed  to  finish  the  first 
meeting  house  there;  became  selectman  in  Dunstable.  He  m.  Elizabeth 
Usher.     Fox  names  ch.  Sarah,  John  and  Alice. 
SPAULDING.  [The  spelling  of  our  Records.  The  Spalding  Memorial 
omits  the  U].  Edward  Spalding  was  one  of  the  original  settlers  of 
Chelmsford  in  16.54.  and  until  his  death.  1670,  Feb.  26,  a  leading  citizen. 
Of  his  descendants  a  very  full  and  admirable  record  is  given  in  the 
Spalding  3Iemorial,  published  in  1872,  by  Rev.  Samuel  J.  Spalding,  d.  d., 
of  Newburyport.  His  son  Andrew,  b.  1652,  Nov.  19.  and  d.  1713,"May  5, 
m.  Hannah  Jefts,  dau.  of  Henry,  1,  who  was  the  third  child  and  first  girl 
born  in  Billerica.  She  d.  1730,  Jan.  21.  Of  their  nine  children  the  eighth 
was    • 
1.  Benoni,  b.  1691,  Feb.  6.     He  m.  Rebecca    ,  who  d.  1741-2, 
Jan.  8;  and  he  m.  1743,  Dec.  21,  Esther  Chamberlain,  widow  of 
William,  10.  He  d.  1752,  Dec.  17.  Ch.  Mary,  b.  1718,  April  16;  d. 
May  25.  Behecca,  b.  1722,  Aug.  20;  m.  1740,  Aug.  4,  Jonas  Adams,  of 
Chelmsford.  Benjamin,  b.  1725.  April  29;  d.  June  11.  Edward,  2,  b. 
1727,  May  8.  Asa.  3,  b.  1729,  May  26.  Bachel,  b.  1731-2,  Jan.  3;  d. 
April  23.     Hannah,  h.  1735,  Aug.  3;   d.  Oct.  4.     Joanna,  h.  1736,  Oct.  11. 
2.  Edward,  son  of  Benoni,  1,  b.  1727,  May  8;  m.  1750,  Jan.  1, 
Susanna  Crosby,  dau.  of  Thomas.  10.  His  name  disappears  from  the 
tax-list  in  1775.  Ch.  Susanna,  b.  1753,  March  18.  Jacob,  b.  1756,  May  19. 
Bhoda,  b.  1758,  Nov.  27.     Enoch,  b.  1761,  Nov.  29,     Sarah,  b.  1767,  Feb.  13. 
3.  Asa,  son  of  Benoni,  1,  b.  1729.  May  26;  m.  1750,  Jan.  10,  Anna 
Crosby,  a  lialf-sister  of  his  brother  Edward's  wife.  Ch.  Anna,  b.  1751, 
Nov.  i2;  m.  Isaac  Barron,  3;  d.  1819,  Nov.  23.  Bebecca,  b.  1753,  Dec.  31; 
d.  1754.  Nov.  29.  Asa.  b.  1755,  Sept.  14;  m.  Julia  Danforth,  dau.  of 
Timothy,  18,  and  d.  1839  without  issue.  Bebecca,  b.  1758,  Aug.  12;  d. 
1763,  Jan.  31.  Benoni,  4,  b.  1760,  Dec.  18.  Sibbel,  b.  1763,  Jan.  13;  m. 
1782,  April  30.  Ephraim  Robbins,  of  Carlisle;  d.  1821.  Bachel,  b.  1764, 
Nov.  8;  m.  1789,  Oct.  1,  Jeremiah  Warren,  of  Chelmsford;  d.  1837. 
Esther,  b.  1767,  Oct.  1.     Thomas,  5,  b.  1770,  Dec.  25. 
4.  Benoni,  sou  of  Asa,  3,  b.  1760,  Dec.  IS;  m.  1790,  April  1,  Lvdia 
Duren  dau.  of  Abraham,  10.  He  d.  1839,  Sept.  25,  and  she  d.  1862, 
March  3.  Ch.  Asa,  b.  1790,  June  25 ;  
d.  1847,  Feb.  20 ;  a  farmer  in  Bedford 
and  Lincoln,  Mass.  ;   
killed  by  a  locomotive  at  East  Cambridge  ;  had  7  ch. 
 - 521 - 
136  SPAILDING. 
Lydia.  b.  17!)1.  Sept.  20;  in.  Jonas  Brown.  16.  Anna,  b.  1793,  Feb.  11;  m. 
Jobn  Duren.  BcnuuK  H,  b.  1794.  Oct.  10.  Ahhy,  b.  1796,  Aug.  15;  ra. 
Ananiah  IJobonan.  1.  hiidlii.  b.  1798.  April  30;  in.  1828.  Dec.  9.  Benjamin 
Searles.  of  Xasbiia.  lie  <1.  185;}.  Jan..  and  slie  ni.  1853,  Xov.  22.  Samuel 
Jenkins,  of  Bradford.  lie  d.  185().  Dec.  10,  and  she  ni.  18G0,  April  17, 
Rodney  Bi'own.  23.  She  d.  1870,  May  25.  Abraham,  b.  1800.  May  16;  m. 
1827,  Nov.  8.  Elizabeth  (iibson,  of  Pelliam,  N.  H.;  lived  in  Lowell  and 
Pelham;  had  9  ch.  Benjanun,  b.  1802.  Oct.  24;'  d.  1828.  Oct.  30;  unm, 
Olive,  b.  1805.  Julv  3;  m.  her  cousin  Edward.  10,  Warren,  b.  1807, 
Feb.  9;  d.  1818.  Sept.  25.  Ixaar  and  Jacob.  9,  b.  1809.  June  20.  Isaac,  d. 
1810,  Jan.  22. 
5.  Tliomas,  son  of  Asa,  3,  b.  1770,  Dec.  25 ;  d.  1849,  June  30.  He  m. 
1792.  Jan.  29.  Prudence  Slied,  dau.  of  Thonuis,  18.  Ch.  Bebecca.  b.  1795, 
March  11  ;  m.  David  Simonds,  of  Alexandria,  X.  II..  and  d.  1862.  Thomas, 
b.  1797,  July  11  ;  m.  Harriet  Houseley,  of  Boston,  and  d.  1850,  April  6, 
without  issue.  Esther,  b.  1799.  Sept.  3  ;  m.  1824,  March  21.  William  Duren  ; 
d.  1828.  Hannah,  b.  1801.  Julv  25;  m.  Silas  Dudley,  of  Bedfoixl;  d.  1828. 
Edward,  10,  b.  1803.  March  26.  Axa.  b.  1805,  Aug.  28;  m.  1827,  Oct.  22, 
Adaline  Nichols,  of  Carlisle.  Siibil.  b.  ]808,  Feb.  14:  m.  1826,  Dec.  12, 
Samuel  A.  Duren.  of  AVoburn  ;    
d.  1856. 
6.  Sampson,  son  of  John,  of  Chelmsford  [son  of  John,  son  of  Andrew. 
See  above:]  b.  1775,  March  1;  m.  1804,  March  27.  Susanna  Skinner.  He  d. 
1835,  Feb.  19.  Ch.  Hannah  Adams,  b.  1805.  Nov.  5;  d.  Nov.  21.  Mary 
Herrick.  b.  1807.  Sept.  1  :  d.  1827,  Dec.  23.  Susanna  Eliza,  b.  1810, 
Sept.  26;  d.  1825.  Nov.  15.  //«»?*«/;,  b.  1812,  July  20;  d.  1836,  Nov.  29. 
Benjamin  Adams,  b.  1815,  Jan.  20;  -grad.  H.  C.  1840,  and  Andover  Theo- 
class,    logical Seminary  1843;  was  one  of  the  -'Iowa  Band""  of  eleven  from  his 
who  went  to  that  territorv  as  Home  Missionaries;  ordained  1843, 
Nov.  5;  pastor.  Ottumwa,  1851-63,  and  d.  there  1867,  March  31.  He  m. 
1847,  April  5,  Ann  Nichols  Norris,  of  Ottumwa,  and  had  6  ch.,  of  whom  5 
d.  young.  Josiah  Skinner,  b.  1817.  May  20,  and  d.  May  28.  Martha 
Rebecca,  b.  1819,  June  21 ;  m.  1851,  July  27,  James  W^.  Norris,  of  Ottumwa, 
and  there  resides.  Sarah  Joan,  b.  1821,  July  21 ;  
d.  1841,  July  27.  Andrew 
Josiah,  b.  1823,  Sept.  21  ;  m.  1851,  Oct.  6.  Elizabeth  A.  Brown,  of  Concord, 
N.  H..  and  d.  in  Ottumwa,  1860,  Jan.  17.  Edimn  Sampson,  b.  1826.  Feb.  18; 
d.  1828,  Jan.  21. 
7.  Amos,  son  of  John,  of  Chelmsford,  and  nephew  of  Sampson,  6,  b. 
1789,  Dec.  28  ;  many  years  a  teacher  in  Boston,  Chelmsford,  and  Billerica; 
a  deacon  of  the  Baptist  church  ;  one  of  the  first  Trustees  of  the  Howe 
school,  and  President  of  the  Board  at  his  death.  He  m.  1819,  Sept.  9, 
Mary  Warren,  of  Chelmsford.  She  d.  1852,  March  2,  and  he  m.  1857, 
Jan.  1.  Mrs.  Nancy  (Warren)  Blanchard,  of  Littleton.  He  d.  1866, 
Sept.  23.  She  d.  1880,  Jan.  5,  aged  87.  Ch.  b.  in  Boston,  Amos  Fletcher, 
b.  1821.  Jan.  12;  grad.  Brown  University,  1847,  and  Newton  Theological 
Seminary,  1850;  ordained  in  Montreal,  1851,  March  21 ;  pastor  2d  Baptist 
church,  in  Cambridge,  1852-6;  Calais,  Me.,  1856-60;  Warren,  K.  I., 
1860-70;  Norwich,  Conn..  1870.  He  d.  suddenly  1877,  Nov.  29.  Mary 
Ann,  b.  1822,  Sept.  1 ;  m.  Dr.  George  Faulkner  (see  1).  Sarah  Lucena,  b.  1824, 
May  12;  d.  1826.  May  23.  James  Btissell,  b.  1826.  Sept.  25;  an  apothecary 
in  Boston,  where  he  d.  1861,  Sept.  11,  By  his  will,  he  made  the  Trustees 
of  the  Howe  school  legatees  of  the  place  on  which  his  parents  lived;  after 
their  death,  the  income  to  be  devoted  to  the  support  of  the  school.  The 
house  is  on  the  west  side  of  the  Lowell  road,  a  half-mile  north  of  the 
school.  Joseph  Warren,  b.  1828,  Aug.  27;  d.  1847.  March  14.  Lucena 
Sarah,  b.  in  Billerica,  1830.  July  16;  m.  Thonuis  P.  Procter,  of  Boston; 
d.  1868.  jVLny  1.  John  Boardman,  b.  1832.  July  1;  d.  1851,  Dee.  19. 
Benjamin  Judson,  b.  1834,  May  11;  m.  1856,  Dec'  25.  Sarah  J.  Mason,  of 
New  York  citj^  where  he  is  in  business,  residing  in  Elizabeth.  N.  J. 
Francis  Mason,  b.  1836,  Sept.  10;   d.  1860.  April  12. 
 - 522 - 
SPAULDING  —  SPRAKE.  137 
8.  Benoni,  son  of  Benoni.  4,  b.  1794,  Oct.  10;  in.  1818.  Rebecca 
Brown,  dau.  of  Thomas.  12.  She  d.  1840,  May  18.  Ch.  Sarah  Ann,  b. 
1818,  Dec.  2;  m.  Jacob  Sldnner,  of  "Wobiirn.  Almira  StmWm,  b.  1821, 
Oct.  9;  m.  Ananiah  Bohonan,  1.  Elizabeth  Bebecca,  b.  1822,  Dec.  10;  m. 
William  McKee.  of  Keene,  and  Charles  L.  Skinner,  of  Woburn.  3Iaynard 
Gardner,  b.  1824,  Sept.  29;  m.  and  Uves  in  AVihnington.  3Ierr>j  Maria,  b. 
1826,  July  14;  ni.  John  H.  Staples  and  Isaac  Hale;  lives  in  Atkinson,  N.  H. 
Lucy  Lncinda.  b.  1828.  June  6;  went  West.  Benjamin  Udioard,  11,  b.  1831, 
June  8. 
9.  Jacob,  son  of  Benoni.  4,  b.  1809.  June  26;  m.  1831.  Dec.  15.  Mary 
Ann  Easty.  and  now  lives  in  Chelmsford.  Ch.  il/ar*/,  b.  1832.  Sept.  27;  m. 
Henrj^  Lovering.  and  lives  in  Somerville.  3Iinot  Gardiner,  b.  1834, 
March  16;  m.  Ella  C.  Farnum;  lives  in  Somerville.  Sarah,  b.  1835, 
Aug.  7;  d.  Nov.  8.  Isaac  Warren,  b.  1837,  Aug.  15;  d.  1839,  Feb.  1. 
Eliza,  b.  1839.  Aug.  27;  d.  1866,  Jan.  28.  Albert  Fletcher,  b.  1841,  Jan.  14. 
Asa,  b.  1843,  Aug.  23.  Abbie  Ann,  b.  1846,  Feb.  5.  Leonard,  b.  1849, 
Jan.  2. 
10.  Edward,  son  of  Thomas,  5,  b.  1803,  March  26.  He  lives  near 
Chelmsford  line  ;  a  leading  citizen,  selectman,  and  deacon  of  the  Baptist 
church.  He  m.  1824,  Oct.  31.  Olive  Spalding,  his  cousin,  who  d.  1878. 
Jan.  16.  Ch.  Olive,  b.  1825.  Oct.  20;  m.  1845,  Jan.  14,  Asa  Xickles,  of 
Carlisle.  Sybil,  b.  1828,  July  11;  m.  1845,  Sept.  21,  Horace  N.  Wilson; 
lives  in  Carlisle.  Manj,  b.  1831,  Nov.  28.  Martha,  b.  1833.  Sept.  27; 
m.  1849,  Oct.  28.  Thomas  Simonds.     Thomas,  11,  b.  1835.  June  22. 
11.  Thomas,  preceding,  m.  1856.  Mav  10.  Eliza  Jane  Brown,  dau.  of 
Rodney,  23.  She  d.  1859.  Julv  22,  and  he  m.  1863.  Nov.  26,  Augusta  Maria 
French,  dau.  of  Charles,  32.  'Ch.  Edimrd,  b.  1857,  Sept.  8. 
12.  Benjamin  Edward,  son  of  Benoni.  8,  b.  1831,  June  8 ;  m.  1856, 
July  17.  Susan  J.  McLean.  They  have  lived  in  New  Chester,  Wis., 
Nashua.  N.  H.,  and  since  1870.  in  Billei'ica.  His  farm  is  on  the  Woburn 
i-oad  near  Shawshin  river.  Ch.  Gardner  Edwin,  b.  1857,  Julj-  6.  George 
Henry,  b.  1859.  Feb.  1.  Benjamin  Gilson,  b.  1861,  March  19.  Alice  Maria, 
b.  1863,  Aug.  27.     Jacob,  b.  1871.  Aug.  24. 
13.  Abel,  son  of  Abel,  of  Chelmsford,  b.  1823,  Oct.  4;  m.  1849. 
Jan.  30,  Julia  Ann  Currier,  dau.  of  Isaac,  2,  and  adopted  dau.  of  Ichabod 
Everett.  She  d.  1864,  Oct.  12.  and  he  m.  1868.  Oct.  11,  Mrs.  Leonora  C. 
Elder,  dau.  of  Benjamin  F.  Washburn,  of  Paris,  Me.  Ch.  Ella  Agnes, 
b.  1850,  July  3;  d.  1853.  March  7.  Hoivard  Everett,  b.  1852,  Jan.  3.  Carrie 
Julia,  b.  1853,  April  11;  d.  1857.  Oct.  17.  Mary  Ida,  b.  1855,  March  23. 
Joel  Warren,  b.  1856.  Oct.  11.  Abel  Walter,  b.  1859,  Aug.  5.  George 
Edu-ard,  b.  1862,  Nov.  12.  Waldo  Atherton,  b.  1869,  May  30.  Ralph 
Sidney,  b.  1870,  Aug.  28.     Amanda  Dora,  b.  1871,  Dec.  21. 
SPRAKE.  1.  Nicholas.  [So  our  Records  spell  uniformly  until  1780: 
generally  Sprague].  The  marriage  of  Nicholas,  2,  is  the  first  mention  of 
the  name  in  Billerica.  The  relationship  of  1  and  2  is  not  known  ;  
thej^ 
may  have  been  uncle  and  nephew.  3  must  have  been  son  of  1,  if  of 
either,  and  as  his  name  is  on  the  tax-list  1743,  he  was  the  issue  of  a  prior 
marriage  of  his  father,  who  m.  1724,  June  1.  Rebecca  Shed,  widow  of 
Daniel,  7.  He  lived  near  the  falls  at  North  Billerica,  and  his  name 
disappears  from  the  east  tax-list  1740. 
2.  Nicholas  (see  above)  lived  at  the  Colson  place  by  the  Baptist 
church  at  North  Billerica,  which  he  gave  his  son  Nicholas  ;  and  to  Samuel, 
a  place  near  the  Fordway.  He  ni.  1721,  Aug.,  Elizabeth  Burge,  dau. 
of  Josiah.  of  Chelmsford,  and  1744,  Nov.  15.  Judith  Pollard,  widow 
of  Edward,  2.  He  d.  1768,  March  31.  Ch.  Nicholas,  4,  b.  1722.  Dec.  29. 
John,  b.  1724.  June  1;  d.  1771,  April  27.  Samuel,  5,  b.  1725-6,  Feb.  2. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1727,  June  20;  m.  John  Willoughby.  Mary,  b.  1728.  May  27; 
m.  Seth  Levistone.  5.     Sarah,  b.  1729,  June  15;    m.  1746,  Dec.  16,  Josiah 
Gary,  of  Pomfret.   Dorcas,  b.  1730,  Dec.  7;    m.      Mears,  perhaps  Roger 
(see  1).     Ann,  b.  1732.  April  27;  m.     Ballard. 
 - 523 - 
138    ~  SPRAKE. 
3.  Nicholas,  prob.  sou  of  Nicholas.  1,  ni.  1752.  May  27,  Sarah  Walkei", 
dau.  of  Benjaium.  3.  t'h.  Benjamin,  b.  1752,  Dec.  28.  Sarnh,  b.  1755, 
Jan.  15;  in."  .John  Shed,  21.  John,  h.  1759,  April  2G.  David,  b.  17G3, 
May  5,  and  perhaps  Timotluj,  6. 
4.  Nicholas,  son  of  Nicholas.  2,  b.  1722,  Dec.  29 ;  
m.  Margaret   .  He 
d.  1784.  Jtdy  11.  and  his  widow  before  1790,  July  5.  Ch.  Marciarct,  b.  1754. 
May  22;  ni.  Moses  Carleton.  4,  Anne,  b.  1756,  Feb.  13;  ni.  Samuel 
Sprake,  7.  Elizabeth,  b.  1758,  June  l(i.  Nicholas,  b.  1761.  Sept.  1.  and  d. 
1765.  Feb.  3.  Hannah,  b.  1764,  March  14;  m.  Oliver  Fanner,  4.  liehecca, 
b.  1768,  April  14;  in.  Joseph  Wilson,  (see  7).     Susanna,  b.  1770.  June  11. 
5.  Samuel,  son  of  Nicholas.  2,  b.  1725-6.  Feb.  2;  m.  1749.  Dec.  12, 
Judith  Pollard,  dau.  of  Edward.  2,  Shed.  1780.  July  8.  and  he  m.  1782, 
Aug.  1.  Piuth  Dunckle.  widow  of  Nathaniel. 2.  She  in.  1789.  March  12, 
Joseph  French,  of  Tewksbury.  C'h-  Samuel.  7,  b.  17.50.  Sept.  9.  Jonathan, 
b.  1752,  June  10,  and  d.  1754,  May  23.  Judith,  b.  17.54,  May  20;  m.  1774, 
March  17,  William  I>aws  (see  1).  Jonathan,  b.  1756,  Aug.  20.  Oliver, 
b.  17.58,  Aug.  15;  d.  1767,  May  12.  Solommi,  b.  1760,  Sept.  22.  and  d.  Oct.  8. 
Sarah,  b.  1761.  Oct.  29,  and  d.  Nov.  11.  Isaac,  8,  b.  1762,  Nov.  10. 
Solomon,  b.  1764,  Sept.  19,  and  d.  Nov.  1.  Levi,  9,  b.  1766,  Aug.  10. 
Sarah,  b.  1768,  Oct.  27;  m.  1784,  May  23,  Joseph  Dows,  6.  OJiver,  b.  1771, 
May  29.  and  d.  1776,  Jan.  6. 
6.  Timothy,   prob.  son  of  Nicholas.  3,  m.  Azubah    .     Ch.  Sally, 
b.  1786,  Feb.  6.  rirnothy.  b.  1788.  Feb.  12.  John.  b.  1790.  Jan.  3.  William 
b.  1792,  Jan.  22.  Aaron,  b.  ^793,  Dec.  4.  AlJiee,  b.  1797.  March  14.  Betsey 
b.  1798,  Dec.  16. 
7.  Samuel,  son  of  Samuel,  5,  b.  1750,  Sept.  9;  m.  1777,  Jan.  3,  Anna 
Sprake.  dau.  of  Nicholas,  4.  He  removed  to  Nottingham  West,  now 
Hudson,  N.  H..  about  1780,  and  d.  there  1836,  Dec.  10.  Ch.  Anna,  b.  1777, 
Oct.  30;  d.  1778,  April  14.  Samuel,  b.  1779.  March  4;  m.  1796,  April  5, 
Anna  Levistone.  (see  8)  and  d.  in  Hudson,  18,53,  Jan.  19.  Jonathan,  b.  1785, 
June  6.  and  d.  1880,  June.-  Betsey.    Salh/.     Oliver  d.  1879,  June  27.  aged  84. 
8.  Isaac,  son  of  Samuel,  5,  b.  1762,  Nov.  10;  m.  1788,  Aug.  28,  Rhoda 
Wilson,  dau.  of  Seth.  He  d.  1799.  March  31,  and  she  m.  Abijah  Hodgman, 
of  Carlisle.  Ch.  Polli/.  b.  1789,  Sept.  3;  m.  1811.  Jan.  29.  Joseph  Dows,  6. 
Isaac,  b.  1791.  March  9;  d.  March  15.  Bhocla,  b.  1792.  Oct.  22.  Isaac, 
b.  1794.  April  23.  Silence,  b.  1796.  Jan.  25;  d.  1797,  Oct.  8.  Solomon, 
b.  1797.  Sept.  11 ;  
d.  1798,  April  14. 
9.  Levi,  son  of  Samuel,  5,  b.  1766,  Aug.  10;  m.  1788,  March  13,  Sally 
Siinins.  He  d.  1833.  Jan.  20.  and  she  d.  1851,  Oct.  11,  aged  83.  Ch.  Betsey 
Stoneman.  b.  1788.  Oct.  9.  and  d.  1789.  Feb.  3.  Thomas,  b.  1790,  June  11; 
m.  Nabby  Reed;  had  ch.  Daniel,  Thomas,  James  H..  and  Langdon  W.,  and 
d.  1827,  June  30.  L<'Vi.  b.  1792.  Feb.  5;  d.  1793.  Feb.  2.  Sally,  b.  1793, 
Sept.  13;  m.  Richard  Taft.  and  2d.  Samuel  Law;  d.  1850.  Jan.  18.  Judith, 
b.  1795,  July  7;  m.  1817,  July  6,  William  Nichols,  of  Wilmington,  and  has 
13  ch.  Betty,  b.  1797.  Aug.  4;  d.  1799.  Jan.  2.  Harriot,  b.  1800.  Jan.  3; 
m.  1822.  April  16.  Horatio  Boyden.  of  Chelmsford;  had  5  ch..  and  d.  1853. 
Pascal,  b.  1801,  Sept.  "27 ;  d.  1845,  in  Charlestown.  Henry  Dorr.h.  1803, 
Aug.  28;  ni.  Louisa  Milliken,  of  Portland;  had  ch.  Sarah  L.,  Charles  H., 
Helen  M.,  and  Lauriette  ;  and  he  d.  1864.  May  21.  Elizabeth,  b.  1805, 
Aug.  3;  in.  1827,  May  27.  Jonathan  Jaquith,  of  Wilmington;  had  ch. 
Elizabetli,  S3dvester,  Henry,  Theresa,  and  Simeon.  Mary.  b.  1807.  Aug.  15; 
in.  Ransom  Reed,  of  Lowell,  and  had  10  ch.  Her  dau.  Marietta  m.  Parau 
Stevens,  celebrated  as  landlord  of  the  Tremont  and  Revere  houses.  Boston, 
the  Continental  hotel.  Pliiiadelphia.  and  the  Fifth  Avenue  hotel.  New  York. 
I^'vi.  b.  1810.  Sei)t.  16.  He  lives  in  Lowell.  President  of  the  Traders"  and 
Mechanics'  Insurance  Company,  and  of  the  Pemberton  Bank,  Lawrence. 
He  m.  1835,  Sept.  3.  Lydia  P.  Wood,  of  Blue  Hill,  Me.,  and  has  ch. 
Augusta,  b.  1836.  April"  27;  m.  Ammi  R.  Sewall,  of  Brooklyn.  Mary 
Jane,  b.  1839,  Oct.  15;  m.  William  (J.  Mansur,  of  Lowell.  William  Henry, 
b.  1841.  Sept.  15;   m.  Mary  Osgood-  and  hves  in  Lawrence.     Pascal,  b. 
 - 524 - 
STEARNS.  139 
1847,  May  15;  d.  1848,  July  29.  Levi  Kirk  b.  1850,  April  6;  ni.  Susan 
Thompson,  and  lives  in  Tewksbury.  Pascal,  b.  1854,  May  15;  d.  18G2. 
Dec.  2.  ^Sttsanna,  b.  1813,  Jan.  6;"  m.  Georoe  H.  Foote,  of  Boston;  d. 
1867,  Dec.  25. 
STEARNS.  1.  John  was  one  of  the  purchasers  of  the  Dudley  Farm 
and  one  of  the  earliest  inhabitants  of  the  town.  His  father,  Isaac  Stearns 
(or  Sterne,  as  the  name  at  first  was  often  spelled)  was  of  Neyland.  Suffolk, 
England,  and  came  to  America  in  1630.  He  settled  in  Wateitown.  and  his 
wife's  name  was  Mary.  Our  John  was  b.  there  prob.  in  1631^  His  elder 
sister  Mary  m.  Isaac  Learned,  of  Woburn,  and  after,  of  Chelmsford,  who 
was  one  of  the  three  original  purchasers  of  Gov.  Dudley's  Farm,  and  John 
Stearns  was  in  this  way  interested  in  the  settlement.  The  land  which  he 
bought  included  fifty  acres  on  the  north-east  corner  of  the  farm,  next  the 
township  ;  fifty  acres  in  the  south-west  corner,  bounded  by  the  river  and 
Winthrop  Farm,  and  another  fifty  acres  on  the  river.  His  house  stood  on 
the  south  side  of  Charnstafte  Lane,  opposite  Mr.  Whiting's,  and  was  the 
Dea.  Whiting  place  of  -later  years.  He  had  an  adjoining  grant  of  land  on 
the  township,  west  of  Mr.  Whiting's  and  the  Concord  road.  After  his 
death  this  property  passed  to  other  liands,  and  the  family  history  in  the 
town  has  been  identified  with  the  other  part  of  his  purchase  on  the  south- 
w^est  corner  of  the  Farm.  The  following  grant  to  John  Stearns,  in  1660. 
shows  where  his  house  stood:  ''Granted  more  to  him  one  small  skirt  of 
land,  added  to  the  land  on  which  his  house  now  stands  ;  it  begins  at  the 
east  side  of  the  pound,  and  so  takes  the  just  width  of  y^  pound,  and 
joyneth  to  his  owne  land,  and  so  it  contlnueth  that  width  imto  the  full 
extent  of  the  most  easterly  corner  of  Mr.  Dudley's  farme,  which  land  was 
granted  to  him  in  consideration  of  the  country  road  being  laid  through 
that  part  of  his  land  on  which  his  house  stands."  The  pound  stood  south 
of  Charnstaffe  Lane  at  the  point  where  the  Concord  road,  leaving  the 
village,  turns  west  upon  it,  and  the  bend  in  the  lane  caused  by  the  grant  of 
this  strip  to  Mr.  Stearns  is  conspicuous  to  this  day.  His  township  grant  is 
thus  described:  "tenne  acres,  be  it  more  or  less,  lying  upon  the  township 
toward  y^  south-west  corner  of  y^  same,  being  bounded  on  y<=  north  by 
daniell  sheed,  acording  as  y^  fence  now  stands,  and  on  y  west  by  Mr. 
Whiting,  as  y®  fence  do  now  stand,  and  partly  by  george  farley,  the  line 
runing  from  y^  corner  of  his  fence  to  y®  other  side  of  y«  Brooke  to  a  great 
oake,  and  so  runing  in  y«  ToAvnship  line  crosse  y*  brooke  againe  unto  a 
stake  standing  even  w*'*  his  east  side  fence,  bounded  by  Mr.  Whiting 
and  y«  highway  on  the  east  ;  and  there  is  this  condition  in  this  grant  : 
y'  hee,  the  said  John  Sternes,  shall  mainteine  his  fence  about  y^  said  field 
at  his  owne  charge  for  his  owne  security  against  cattle  and  swine,  without 
requiring  Mr.  Whiting  to  bare  any  part  of  the  same,  and,  so  doing,  he  is 
to  injoy  y^  said  land  for  himself  and  his  heirs  forever.''  Mr.  Stearns  m. 
Sarah,  only  dau.  of  Isaac  Mixer,  of  Watertown.  She  d.  1656.  June  18.  the 
first  death  in  Billerica.  except  that  of  Henry  Jefts'  infant  dau.  Hannah,  in 
May,  1653.  He  m.  1656,  Nov.  20.  Mary.  dau.  of  Thomas  Lathrop.  of 
Barnstable.  Her  mother  was  a  sister  of  Isaac  Learned,  above  mentioned. 
Mr.  Stearns  d.  1668-9.  March  5,  and  his  widow  m.  Lieut.  William  French.  1, 
and  1687.  Isaac  Mixer,  of  AV'atertown,  brother  of  her  husband's  first  wife. 
Ch.  John,  2,  b.  1654,  May,  "■2d  week."  For  notice  of  the  question  whether 
he  was  the  first  child  born  in  town,  see  Farley,  Samuel,  3.  Isaac,  b. 
1658,  April  17,  and  d.  1659,  Oct.  9.  Samueh  b.  1659,  Sept.  3;  d.  1735. 
Isaac,  3,  b.  1661,  Dec.  23.  Nathaniel  b.  1663.  Nov.  30;  took  the  oath  of 
fidelitv,  1685  ;   
d.     T/iowios,  4,  b.  1665,  Dec.  6. 
2,  John,  son  of  John.  1,  b.  1654,  May,  "•2d  week";  m.  Elizabeth, 
dau.  of  John  Bigelow.  of  AVatertown.  She  d.  1694,  April  18,  and  he  m. 
Johannah,  widow  of  Jacob  Parker,  and  dau.  of  Thomas  Call,  of  Maiden. 
Capt.  John  Stearns  d.  1728,  Oct.  26.  His  widow  d.  1737.  Dec.  4,  aged  78. 
Ch.  Elizabeth,  b.  1677,  Sept.  23.  in  Watertown;  m.  Samuel  Eogers,  6. 
John,  b.  1679-80,  Jan.  22,  and  d.  April  4,     Sarah,  b.  1681-2,  March  21 ;   m. 
 - 525 - 
140  •  STEARNS. 
Samuel  Hunt.  2.  Mary,  b.  1684.  July  23 ;  in.  1705,  May  28,  Samuel  Barron, 
of  Chelmsford.  John,  5,  b.  1G86.  Nov.  25.  Isaac,  h.  1689,  May  1;  ship- 
wrecked and  lost  in  expedition  to  Port  Royal,  1711.  Abujail,  b.  1691, 
Aug.  22;  ni.  1712,  Oct.  22.  William  Wyman,  of  Woburn,  Samuel,,  6,  b. 
1693-4,  ,Ian.  8.     Johannah,  b.  1697,  June'24. 
3.  Isaac,  son  of  John,  1,  b.  1661,  Dec,  23:  m.  Mary  Miriam.  Tie  d. 
1739.  Ch.  Isaac,  7,  b.  1701.  Aug.  21.  Mary,  b.  1702-3,  Jan.  26;  m.  John 
Pollard,  3-  Sarah,  b.  1704.  March  26;  m.  1725,  May  19,  Ebenezer  Johnson, 
of  Woburn.  Miriam,  b.  1705.  Aug.  5;  m.  Thomas  Patten,  11,  Lydia.b. 
1707,  April  21  ;   m.  Samuel  Belknap. 
4.  Thomas,  son  of  John.  1,  b.  1665,  Dec.  6;  m.  1688.  June  ,20, 
Eebecca  Chamberlain,  dau.  of  William,  1.  He  d.  1696-7.  Feb.  9,  and  his 
widow  m.  George  Farley,  6.  Ch.  Itebecca,  b.  1689,  April  23.  Mary.  b. 
1692.  June  18;  m.  Benjamin  Frost,  9.  AVrrrt/j,  b.  1694.  April  27  ;  m.  1720-1, 
Jan..  Joshua  Child,  of  Weston.     Hannah,  b.  1696,  Aug. 
5.  John,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1686,  Nov.  25;  m.  Esther  Johnson,  dau. 
of  Edward,  of  Woburn.  Lieut.  Stearns  d.  1776,  Aug.  2.  and  his  widow 
d.  1786,  April  18,  aged  93.  Ch.  Esther,  b.  1716,  Nov.  9,  and  d.  Feb.  20. 
John,  b.  1718,  May  27.  Bond  (p.  940)  names  five  children,  four  of  whom, 
Esther,  Timothy^  Levi  and  David  settled  in  Lovell,  Me.,  where  the 
father  d.  aged  ^ii.  Esther,  b.  1720,  June  6,  and  d.  1741.  Aug.  12.  Isaac,  8, 
b.  1722,  June  16.  Joanna,  b.  1724,  July  29;  m.  1754,  Aug.  8,  Ebenezer 
Fletcher,  of  AVestford.  Edward,  9,  b.  1726.  May  9.  Benjamin,  b.  1729, 
Nov.  21.  and  d.  1734,  Aug.  25.  Josiah,  b.  1731-2,  Jan.  20.  He  grad.  H.  C, 
1751  ;  was  ordained  1758,  March  8,  the  first  pastor  of  the  church  in 
Epping,  N.  II.,  and  d.  in  that  oftice  1786,  Feb.  24.  He  was  a  close  and 
careful  student  of  the  original  Scriptures,  and  very  familiar  with  the  Bible. 
In  the  Revolution  he  was  an  ardent  friend  of  liberty,  and  gave  his  sons  and 
his  treasure  to  the  cause.  Was  a  member  of  the  State  Conventon  at 
Exeter,  and  on  returning  told  his  children  "If  the  cause  prevail  it  will  be 
a  great  benefit  to  the  country  ;  
but  if  it  shall  fail,  your  poor,  old  father's 
head  will  soon  be  a  button  for  a  halter."  He  m.  1755,  Dec.  4,  Sarah 
Abbot,  dau.  of  Uriah,  of  Bedford  (and  their  first  child  Sarah  was  b.  in 
Billerica,  1756,  Sept.  12).  She  d.  1766,  Nov.  5,  and  he  m.  2d,  Sarah 
Ruggles,  dau.  of  Rev.  Samuel,  of  Billerica,  who  d.  1808,  April  2.  He 
had  6  children  by  each  wife.  Of  these.  Sanmel  became  the  eminent  pastor 
in  Bedford.  Five  of  his  sons  grad.  at  H.  C,  of  whom  William  Augustus 
became  the  President  of  Amherst  College,  and  Jonathan  F.  has  long  been 
an  honored  pastor  at  Newark,  N.  J.,  and  gave  the  historical  oration  at  the 
recent  celebration  in  Bedford.  For  full  account  of  this  family  see  Bond., 
pps.  473-9  and  942-3  and  Conqreqational  Quarterly,  Vol.  X.  William.,  b. 
1733,  Dec.  11,  and  d.  1734,  July"l8.  Timothy,  b.  1737,  Aug.  15;  in  the 
military  service  at  Lake  George,  1757,  and  d.  1762,  Aug.  5. 
dau.  6.'  Samuel,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1693-4,  Jan.  8;  m.  Rachel  Crosby, 
of  Joseph,  3,  He  d.  before  1730.  and  his  widow  m.  Thomas  Wyman.  2. 
Ch.  Rachel,  b.  1720,  June  6;  m.'  Nathan  Hutchinson.  Elizabeth,  b.  1722, 
April  3;  m.  Capt.  Jonathan  Wilson,  of  Bedford,  who  was  killed  in  the 
Lexington  fight,  1775.  Apiil  19.  Prudence,  b.  1724,  March  30;  m.  1742, 
Jan.  21.  John  Needham,  of  Tewksbury  {see  1).  Samuel.,  10,  b.  1726. 
June  1.  3Iara,  b.  1728.  July  1.  Bond  adds  Benjamin  who  chose  Thomas 
Miriam  his  guardian  in  1737. 
7.  Isaac,  son  of  Isaac,  3,  b.  1701,  Aug.  21  ;  m.  Allice  AVilson,  dau.  of 
John.  2.  He  d.  1739.  Sept.  20.  and  she  m.  John  Pollard,  3.  Ch.  Thomas,  11, 
b.  1724-5.  Feb.  12.  Sarah,  h.  1726,  Dec.  10;  m.  Joshua  Abbot,  2.  Jonathan 
b.  1729,  June  16;  lived  in  Lancaster.  John,  h.  1731,  May  25,  and  d.  1754, 
Jan  1.  Oliver,  b.  1733,  July  5;  in  service  at  Lake  George,  1757.  Elijah, 
b.  1735,  June  15;  lived  in  Rutland.  Allice,  b.  1737,  July  21;  m.  1758, 
Aug.  3.  Elisha  White,  of  Lancaster.  William,  b.  1738-9,  Jan.  15,  and  d. 
1756,  April  22. 
 - 526 - 
STEARNS.  141 
8.  Isaac,  son  of  John,  5,  b.  1722,  June  16;  m.  1747-8.  Feb.  11,  Sarah 
Abbot,  dau.  of  Obed,  of  Bedford.  He  was  a  soldier  in  the  French  war. 
Eepresentative,  Senator  and  leading  business  man.  His  ''papers"  are 
deposited  witli  the  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  He  d.  1808.  March  23,  and  his  widow, 
1815,  Jan.  9.  aged  86.  Ch.  Esther,  b.  1749,  April  13;  ra.  1773,  Oct.  19, 
Abraham  Andrews,  of  Concord,  and  lived  in  Lovell,  Me.  Isaac,  b.  1750, 
June  13 ;  m.  1777,  Dec.  18.  Mary  Crosby,  dau.  of  Jaazaniah.  20,  and  settled 
in  Ashburnham,  where  he  d.  in  1807,  April  29.  and  his  widow  d.  1839, 
Oct.  24.  He  was  a  Sergeant  in  the  Army  of  the  Revolittion.  His  son  John 
grad.  Union  College  1821  ;  entered  the  ministry  and  d.  at  Washington, 
D.  C,  1829.  His  son  Jesse  b.  1784.  Aug.  29.  m.  1811,  June  6.  Lucinda 
Davis,  of  New  Ipswich,  N.  H.,  and  lived  after  1819  in  that  town.  He  was 
for  22  years  a  school-teacher.  He  d.  1866.  Nov.  18.  and  his  widow,  1868. 
Oct.  9.  Of  his  children  (i)  Jesse  George  Davis,  b.  1812,  Feb.  24.  grad. 
A.  C,  1836.  and  Andover  Theological  Seminary  1842.  He  was  principal  of 
Hopkins'  Academy,  Hadley,  1836-8,  and  tutor  in  Amherst  College,  1839-41. 
Ordained  pastor  of  the  Congregational  Church,  Billerica,  1843,  May  10; 
dismissed  1867,  May  8..  Acting  pastor,  Clearwater,  Minn..  1868-76,  and  is 
now  Avithout  charge  at  Zumbrota,  Minn.  He  m.  1843,  June  27,  Lucy 
Murdock,  of  Eutland,  Mass.  (2)  Eveline  Lucinda,  b.  1814;  m.  Rev. 
Samuel  S.  Tappan,  and  d.  in  ConAvay.  N.  H.,  1850.  (<?)  Josiah  Milton, 
b.  1818,  June  17;  grad.  Marshall  College,  1844;  ordained  1849,  June,  in 
Lunenburg,  Vt.  ;  
dismissed  1852,  Feb.  3.  and  after  a  few  months'  service  at 
Brentwood,  N.  H.,  d.  there  1853.  June  12.  His  son,  Charles  Cummings. 
b.  1850,  Dec.  10;  grad.  Y.  C.  1872,  and  Union  Theological  Seminary.  1875; 
ordained  1875,  Sept.  20,  a  missionary  of  the  A.  B.  C.  F.  M.  to  Turkey. 
(4)  Isaac  Crosby,  b.  1820.  (.5)  Abigail  Mary,  b.  1822;  grad.  Mount 
Holyoke  Seminary,  and  m.  Rev.  Senaca  Cummings,  missionary  to  China. 
(6)  Lucy  Estabrook,  b.  1824;  grad.  Mount  Holyoke;  m.  1852,  Sept.  6. 
Rev.  Charles  Hartwell.  also  a  missionary  in  China.  (7)  John  Newton, 
b.  1829  ;  
has  been  for  some  years  the  Secretary  of  the  National  Temperance 
Society  in  New  York.  William,  b.  1752,  Aug.  4;  m,  1777.  Sept.  25.  Lydia 
Davis,  and  lived  in  Asburnham  ;  d.  1826.  Aug.  13.  Benjamin,  b.  1754. 
May  10,  and  d.  1756,  Oct.  20.  Sarah,  b.  1756,  April  Land  d.  Nov.  1. 
Benjamin,  b.  1757,  Sept.  12;  m.  Susanna  Frye,  of  Fryeburg.  Me.,  and  lived 
in  Lovell,  Me.,  where  he  had  8  ch.  and  d.  1836,  May  24.  Sarah,  b.  1758, 
Aug.  3;  m.  1779.  Sept.  28,  Thaddeus  Davis,  of  Bedford.  Mary  b.  1761, 
Oct.  25;  m.  Nathan  Fiske,  and  was  mother  of  Professor  Nathan  W.  Fiske, 
illustrious  in  the  history  of  Amherst  College.  Timothy,  12,  b.  1763, 
Sept.  25.  John.  13,  b.  1765,  Sept.  18.  Elizabeth,  b.  1767,  Sept.  15,  and  d. 
1778,  July  29.  Obed,  b.  1770,  Oct.  2,  and  d.  1800,  Sept.  6,  at  Hampton,  N. 
H.  ; a  physician. 
9.  Edward,  son  of  John,  5,  b.  1726,  May  9;  m.  1755.  Lucy  Wj^man, 
dau.  of  Thomas  (see  Stearns.  6).  When  Captain  Wilson,  who  m.  his 
cousin,  was  killed  at  Lexington,  1775,  April  19,  the  command  of  the 
company  devolved  on  him.  He  d.  1793.  June  11,  and  she  d.  1802,  Nov.  28. 
Ch.  Luc\j.  b.  1756,  Mai'ch21;  d.  1768,  May  20.  Solomon,  b.  1757,  May  12; 
enlisted  in  the  military  service,  but  soon  d.  1775,  May  8.  Eachel,  b.  1758, 
Nov.  3;  m.  Moses  Fitch,  of  Bedford.  Edward,  b.  1761,  Jan.  10.  and 
d.  1768,  May  24.  Susanna,  b.  1762,  Dec.  19;  m.  Nehemiah  Wyman, 
of  Medford,  and  had  10  ch.  Allice,  b.  1764,  Aug.  13;  m.  Moses  Abbot, 
and  2d,  Stephen  Lane;  had  10  ch.  Abner.  14,  b.  1766,  July  9.  Edward, 
b.  1768,  June  25;  m.  Polly  Jones,  of  Bradford,  and  2d.  Nabby,  her  sister. 
He  d.  1798,  May,  and  she  m.  Rev.  Ebenezer  Hill,  of  Mason,  N.  H.  Elijah, 
b.  1770,  May  2;  m.  his  cousin,  Ehzabeth.  dau.  of  Rev.  Josiah  Stearns,  of 
Epping.  He  was  a  merchant  in  Bedford;  the  first  postmaster  and  a  justice 
of  the  peace  from  1805  until  his  death,  1831,  xVpril  10.  He  had  3  ch.  who 
d.  young,  and  {a)  Edward  Josiah,  b.  1810,  Feb.  24;  grad.  H.  C,  1833;  an 
Episcopal  clergyman  and  professor  in  St.  John's  College,  Md.  {b)  Elijah 
Wyman,   b.   1813,   Jan.   8;   grad.  H.   C,   1838;    a  merchant  in   Bedford. 
 - 527 - 
142  STEARNS. 
(c)  George,  1).  1815,  Aug.  30;  :v  dentist,  Pittsburg,  Penn,  (d)  Samuel 
French,  b.  1818,  April  25;  a  dentist  in  Boston.  Simeon,  b.  1772,  April  17; 
113.  Sally  Oihb,  and  lived  in  Bedford. 
10.  Samuel,  sou  of  Samuel.  6,  b.  1726,  June  1;  m.  1749,  Oct.  3, 
Elizabeth  Hutchinson.  She  d.  1749-50.  March  12,  and  he  n\.  2d,  Hannah 
Trask.  lie  d.  1801.  July  23,  and  she  d.  Dec.  7,  aged  68.  Ch,  Samiieh  bap. 
1750.  April  1 ;  
d.  Elizabeth,  h.  1751,  June  20;  m.  Henry  Jefts,  8.  Hannah, 
b.  1752,  Oct.  3;  ui.  1779,  May  4.  Joseph  Spalding,  of  Chelmsford. 
Nathaniel,  15,  b.  1754,  Mai-ch  20.  Saimteh  bap.  1755,  Sept.  28;  m.  1785, 
June  2,  Alice  Stearns,  dau.  of  Thouias.  11.  His  name  disappears  from 
tax-list,  1788,  and  Alice  Stearns,  prob.  his  widow,  ra.  David  Trull  (see  7). 
Jonathan,  16,  b.  1758,  May  9.  Josiah,  b.  1760,  May  16.  Joseph,  17,  b. 
1763,  June  27.  Molly,  b,  1765.  April  12;  m.  1803,  April  13,  Jonathan  How. 
Issarher,  b.  1767,  April  3 ;  nt.  1790,  Sept.  16,  Dolly  Page,  Bedford.  Allite 
b.  1770,  March  4;  m.  1789,  Sept.  29,  David  Trull,  (see  7).  Eliiah,  b.  1774, 
March  29. 
11.  Thomas,  son  of  Isaac,  7,  b.  1724-5,  Feb,  12;  m.  1750-1,  March  14, 
Bette  Manning,  dau.  of  Ephraim,  5.  Ch.  Bette^  b.  1751,  Dec.  28;  ni. 
Abijah  Wyman.  of  Ashby.  Isaac,  b.  1753.  Dec.  31 ;  nt.  1778.  March  12, 
Mary  Crosby.  \_Bond'\.  ^"Aoda,  b.  1756,  March  17.  -/o/i/t,  b.  1759,  Nov.  21; 
d.  1762.  June  9.  AlUce,  b.  1762.  April  30;  m.  Samuel  Stearns,  (see  10). 
Abel,  b.  1765,  April  9;  d.  in  Ashby,  1848.  Sarah,  b.  1767,  Nov.  11;  m., 
perhaps,  1789,  Feb.  12,  Willard  Spalding,  of  Chelmsford,  and  lived  in 
Stoddard,  N.  H. ;  
d.  1832.     John.  b.  1782.  June  9. 
12.  Timothy,  son  of  Isaac,  8,  b.  1763,  Sept.  25;  m.  1787,  Nov.  1, 
Sarah  Lane,  dau.  of  Jonathan,  of  Bedford.  He  d.  1816,  Aug.  8,  and  she 
d.  1849.  June  13,  aged  83.  Ch.  Timotht/.  b.  1788,  Sept.  8,  and  d.  1791, 
Nov.  22.  Salhj,  b.  1790,  Sei>t.  21.  and  d.  1793,  Feb.  23.  Timothy,  b.  1792, 
Nov.  12,  and  d.  1795,  Apiil  6.  John,  b.  1794.  Sept.  15.  and  d.  1809.  March  3. 
Sewall.  b.  1796,  Sept.  21;  m.  1836.  June  23,  Lucretia  Hill.  dau.  of  Job,  24, 
and  d.  1849,  Oct.  31.  Sarah,  b.  1798,  July  8,  and  d.  1800,  June  16  or  18. 
Obed,  b.  1801.  March  21;  m.  1827,  May  27,  Mehitable  Carleton.  dau.  of 
Amos,  7*  Sarah  Abbot,  b,  1803,  Feb.  27;  m.  1842,  Dec.  19,  Dea.  Aaron 
Lawrence,  of  Amherst,  N.  H.  Eckley,  b.  1805.  June  12.  Timothy,  b.  1810, 
Jan.  23;  grad.  A.  C.  1833,  and  Andover  Theological  Seminary,  1837. 
Ordained  !839.  July  2;  pastor,  Worthington,  Ohio,  1838-42;  Kingston, 
Ohio,  1843-55;  acting  pastor.  Mount  Pleasant,  Iowa,  1855-8,  and  without 
charge,  at  Fort  Madison,  Iowa,  until  death,  1801,  July  19.  He  m.  1837, 
Dec.  13,  Catherine  Taylor,  of  Athens,  Ohio. 
13.  John,  son  of  Isaac,  8,  b.  1765,  Sept.  18;  m.  1801  (but  the  family 
recoixl  says  1800)  Feb.  10,  Mary  Lane,  dau.  of  Samuel,  of  Bedford.  He 
lived  beside  Concord  i-iver,  in  the  south  part  of  the  town.  His  wife  d. 
1815,  Nov.  30,  aged  39,  and  he  ni,  1817,  May  13,  Susanna  Winn,  dau. 
of  Joseph,  of  Burlington.  She  d.  1842.  Jan.  28.'  He  d.  1836,  Nov.  5,  at 
Woburn,  where  he  had  lived  a  few  months.  He  was  killed  by  a  loco- 
motive. Ch.  Franklin.  18,  b.  1802,  Jan.  25.  Mm-y.  b.  1803.  Dec.  28; 
m.  1832,  May  13.  William  Whitford.  John  Owen,  b.  1805,  Aug.  3;  m.  1842, 
April  5,  Margaret  C.  \Valker,  of  Kehoboth,  Penn.  He  was  a  Director  and 
Superintendent  of  the  Central  Railroad,  New  Jersey;  had  8  ch.  ;  d.  1862. 
Nov.  1.  Onslmv.  b.  1807,  Feb.  2,  and  d.  1808.  Feb.  23.  Eliza  Ann.  b.  1808, 
Oct,  4;  m.  John  Dennis  Billings,  of  Bedford;  had  2  ch.,  and  d.  1875, 
March  3.  Onslow,  b.  1810,  Aug.  30,  Mr.  Stearns  was  one  of  the  most 
distinguished  sons  of  the  town.  The  district  school  and  probably  the 
Billerica  Academy  afforded  the  only  advantages  for  education  which  he 
enjoyed.  At  seventeen  he  was  a  clerk  in  Boston,  and  in  1830  he  joined  his 
brother  John  in  Virginia,  and  was  employed  in  the  engineering  department 
of  the  construction  of  the  Chesapeake  &  Ohio  Canal.  He  then  became 
interested  with  his  brother  in  contracts  for  building  various  railroads 
around  Philadelphia  and  Baltimore,  and  in  1837  he  returned  to  New 
England  to  continue,  as  long  as  he  lived,  a  remarkably  successful  railroad 
career-     He  completed  the  Nashua  &  Lowell  Railroad  in  1838.  and  remained 
 - 528 - 
STEARNS.  143 
its  superintendent  until  1845,  when  he  became  agent  for  building  the 
Northern  Railroad  from  Concord  to  West  Lebanon,  N.  H.  As  manager  and 
president  he  remained  in  connection  with  that  road  until  his  death.  He 
was  also  Superintendent  of  the  Vermont  Central  Railroad.  1852-5. 
Director  of  the  Ogdensburg  Railroad,  and  of  the  Nashua  &  Lowell 
Railroad,  1857-75.  In  1866  he  became  President  of  the  Old  Colony  and 
Newport  Railway,  and  his  administration  of  its  afl'airs  for  11  years  was 
remarkabljr  successful.  And  in  1874  he  became  also  President  of  the 
Concord  Railroad.  In  all  these  positions  his  sag-acity,  ability  and  integrity 
were  conspicuous,  and  comuianded  the  confidence  of  the  public.  His 
comprehensive  grasp  of  broad  questions,  and  his  capacity  for  details  were 
alike  marked.  In  1862  he  was  elected  a  member  of  the  New  Hampshire 
Senate,  and  in  1863  became  its  president.  Six  years  later  he  was  chosen 
Goveinor  of  New  Hampshire,  and  reelected  in  1870,  though  his  consent  to 
be  again  a  condidate  was  reluctantly  given.  His  administration  of  the 
affairs  of  the  state  was  practical,  non-partisan,  and  highly  successful, 
particularly  so  of  its  finances.  He  m.  1845,  June  26,  Mary  A.  Holbrook, 
dau.  of  Hon.  Adin  Holbrook.  of  Athol,  and  later,  of  Lowell.  Their  home 
was  in  Concord,  N.  H.  His  children.  Chailes  Onslow  and  four  daughters, 
with  their  mother,  survive.  He  d.  1878,  Dec.  29.  Lorenzo,  b.  1813,  May  13 ; 
d.  1836.  May  13.  in  Elizabeth,  N.  J.  Barnard,  b.  1815,  Nov.  23 ;  
m.  Lavinia 
Beatrice  Haynes,  and  lives  in  Poughkeepsia.  N.  Y. 
14.  Abner,  son  of  Edward,  9,  b.  1766.  July  9;  m.  1796.  May  1,  Anna 
Hill,  dau.  of  Jonathan,  15.  She  d.  1807,  Oct.  22.  and  he  m.  1808,  June  30, 
Mrs.  Anna  Estabrooks,  widow  of  John  and  dau.  of  Thomas  Russell,  of 
West  Cambridge,  where  he  lived  1805-16.  (See  note  History  of  ArlingUm, 
p.  302).  He  d.  1838.  Dec.  11.  and  she  d.  1839,  Nov.  29,  Ch.  Aimer,  b.  1797, 
April  1;  a  machinist  in  Winchester.  N.  H.  3fary  Ann  HiJL  b.  1809, 
May  23;  m.  Jonas  Munroe,  of  Bedfoi'd.  Edward  Harrison,  b.  1814,  Dec  16; 
a  machinist  in  Covington,  Ky.  George  Sullivan,  b.  1816,  May  17;  lived  in 
Cincinnati.  Albert  Thomas,  b.  1821,  April  23;  a  lumber  merchant  in 
Walthani.     Henry  Avgtisttis,  b.  1825,  Oct.  23;  a  manufacturer  in  Cincinnati. 
15.  Nathaniel,  son  of  Samuel,  10,  b.  1754,  March  29;  m.  1784, 
Feb.  10,  Sarah  Carleton.  dau.  of  John.  2,  and  1791,  Aug.  6,  Lydia  Wilson. 
He  died  soon.     Ch.  Nathaniel,  19,  b.  1789,  Feb.  5. 
16.  Jonathan,  son  of  Sanmel,  10,  b.  1758,  May  9;  ni,  1784,  July  1, 
Molly   Wright,   and  2d,  Betty    .     Ch.   Jonathan,  20,  b.  1798,  Sept.  6. 
David,  b.  1800,  Jan.  15.  Otis,  21,  b.  1804,  Aug.  20.  Charles,  22,  b.  1806, 
Oct.  31.     Dorinda,  b.  1808.  May  4.     Clarissa,  b.  1810,  April  12. 
17.  Joseph,  son  of  Samuel.  10,  b.  1763,  June  27;  m.  1787,  Dec.  5, 
Zilpah  Crosby,  dau.  of  Jacob,  23.  She  died  about  1825,  Ch.  Samuel  went 
AVest  and  not  heard  of.  3Iary,  b.  about  1791;  m.  Marshall  Pierce,  of 
Chelmsford.  Boyal  m.  Susanna  Lawrence,  of  Lexington,  and  d.  about 
1824.  Joseph  m.  Harriet  Stearns,  dau.  of  Elijah ;  now  lives  on  the  Lowell 
road;  no  children.  Zilpah  m.  John  Stearns,  son  of  Josiah.  Hiram  died 
young.  Mahala,  b.  1809,  Aug.  7 ;  m.  James  A.  Lovejoy,  3.  Jerome 
Bonaparte,  b.  1811. 
18.  Franklin,  son  of  John,  13,  b.  1802,  Jan.  25;  m.  1828,  Dec.  28, 
Sally  Ivane,  dau.  of  Benjamin,  of  Bedford.  He  lives  near  the  Concord 
river  and  Bedford  line.  Ch.  Susan  Isabel,  b.  1830,  May  21.  3fary  Jane, 
b.  1832,  March  22;  m.  1860,  April  19,  John  Reed,  and  lived  in  Elizabeth, 
N.  J.  Sarah  Olive,  b.  1834,  March  23,  and  d.  1838,  April  29.  Sarah  Maria 
b.  1838,  April  17;  m.  1859,  Sept.  28,  Asa  Duren,  of  Carlisle,  Lucretia  Ann 
b.  1842,  Jan.  25;  m.  1860,  Sept.  25,  Jolin  Proctor  Davis,  of  Carlisle,  John 
Billings,  b.  1845.  Feb.  13. 
19.  Nathaniel,  son  of  Nathaniel,  15,  b.  1789,  Feb.  5;  m.  1815,  May, 
Sarah  Dowse,  dau.  of  Joseph.  6.  He  d.  1845,  Oct.  31,  and  she  d.  1873, 
April  24.  Ch.  Catherine,  b.  1817,  March  14;  m.  John  Wilson,  Salem,  N.  H, 
Judith,  b.  1820,  Nov.  6;  m.  Anthony  Jones,  1.  Adeline,  b.  1825,  Feb.  24; 
d.  1828,  May  24.     Emily,  b.  1826,  Sept.  2;   m.  Rufus  Farwell,  of  Westford. 
 - 529 - 
144  STEARNS  —  STICKNEY. 
20.  Jonathan,  son  of  Jonathan,  16,  b.  1798,  Sept.  6;  m.  1823, 
Dec.  21,  Eliza  Steams.  Ch.  Catherine,  b.  1824,  April  6.  EUza  Ann,  b.  1826, 
June  22.  Esther,  b.  1827.  Oct.  30.  Sarah,  b.  1829,  Oct.  17.  Henry,  b.  1833, 
Ang.  7.     Gardner,  b.  1837.  Aug.  9. 
21.  Otis,  son  of  Jonatlian,  16,  b.  1804,  Aug.  20;  ni.  Esther  Spalding, 
dau.  of  Jonas,  of  Carlisle.  He  d.  1864,  Aug.  7.  and  she  d.  1880,  May  16. 
aged  77.  Ch.  George  Otis,  b.  1831.  Jan.;  m.  Susan  Woods,  of  Manchester. 
N.  H..  and  lives  there.  Elbridge  m;  lives  in  Chelmsford.  3Iary  Lavinia. 
m.  William  Austin,  and  lives  in  Concord.  Harriet  m.  George  H.  Miller, 
and  lived  in  Concord.     Setoail  Hill,  23,  b.  1843,  Aug.  20. 
22.  Charles,  son  of  Jonathan,  16,  b.  1806,  Oct.  31 ;  m.  Lorinap 
Wilson;  d.  1864.  Aug.  21.  Ch.  Charles  Henry,  b.  1828,  May  1 ;  m.  Hattie 
G.  Cobb,  and  d.  1862.  Dec.  1.  Lucy  Ann.  b.  1829,  May  IS;  m.  Joseph  D. 
Targett;  d.  1875,  Nov.  29.  George  Edwin,  b.  1831,  April  13;  m.  Emeline 
Carey.  William  Bowman,  24,  b.  1832,  Aug.  14.  Marii.  b.  1833.  Oct.  28; 
d.  1834.  Oct.  1.  Leander,  b.  1834,  Nov.  20;  d.  1835.  Oct.  2.  Albert,  25, 
b.  1835.  Jan.  19.  Calvin,  b.  1836.  March  17;  d.  Oct.  3.  Alfred,  b.  1837, 
June  10;  d.  Oct.  3.  Charincey  Converse,  b.  1838,  Aug.  11.  Alden,  b.  1840, 
June  17;  d.  Aug.  14.  Clarissa  Converse,  b.  1841,  March  23;  m.  1862, 
Aug.  15,  Levi  W.  Hutchinson,  and  1871,  July  2,  John  A.  Jones  (see  2). 
C'rtZwt,  b.  1842,  June  10;  d.  Aug.  23.  3Iartha,  b.  1843,  Dec.  12;  d.  1844. 
Oct.  26.  Laura  d.  1845,  Aug.  2.  Orren  d.  1846,  Sept.  1.  Warren  d.  1847, 
Aug.  27.     Lizzie  d.  1849.  Sept.  23. 
23.  Sewall  Hill,  son  of  Otis,  21,  b.  1843,  Aug.  20;  m.  Mary  S. 
Cutler,  who  d.  1874,  May  29.     Ch.  Herbert  Franklin,  b.  1869,  July  16. 
24.  William  Bowman,  son  of  Charles,  22,  b.  1832,  Aug.  14 ;  
m.  1858, 
Nov.  20,  Olivia  Antoinette  Convers.  Ch.  Bessie  Albertine.  b.  1869,  Nov.  15. 
William  Arthur,  b.  1877.  July  14. 
25.  Albert,  son  of  Charles,  22,  b.  1835,  Jan.  19;  m.  1854,  Nov.  29. 
Calista  Amanda  Brown.     Ch.  George  Edwin,  b.  1860.  Aug.  6. 
STEPHENS,  Joseph.  His  wife  Elizabeth  d.  1713-4,  Feb.  6,  and  he  m. 
Elizabeth  Sherman.  Ch.  Jonathan,  b.  1714-5.  Jan.  28.  Joseph  d.  1716-7, 
Feb.  25.  Esther,  b.  1718.  Nov.  27.  Joseph,  b.  1720,  Oct.  17.  Ephraim, 
b.  1720.  Nov.  20. 
STEVENS,  Josiah,  came  from  Dunstable  about  1801.  and  kept  a  tavern 
at  the  "Corner."  He  was  b.  1769.  July  20;  m.  1795,  July  19,  Betsey  Frost, 
who  d.  1800,  July  28.  He  m.  1801,  Nov.  15.  Abigail  Kichai-dson,  dau.  of 
Thomas,  21.  He  d.  1840,  Jan.  20,  and  she  d.  1847.  June  10.  Ch.  Betsey. 
b.  1796,  Jan.  3 ;  m.  1814,  May  5.  Joseph  Butterfield.  Catherine,  b.  1797, 
Aug.  6;  m.  1831,  June  7,  Alpheus  Richardson,  of  Groton.  Sally,  b  1799, 
July  2;  m.  1823.  Aug.  28,  William  Adams,  of  Tyngsboro'.  Abigail,  b.  1804, 
Aug.  7;  m.  1827.  Sept.  23,  John  A.  Savels,  of  Boston.  Mary  Ann,  b.  1806. 
May  16;  m.  Josiah  B.  French  (see  28).  John,  b.  1808,  Jan.  7;  m.  1832, 
Oct.  30,  EHza  Barnes  ;  d.  18.54,  June  13.  Harriet,  b.  1809,  Feb.  9 ;  d.  1826, 
Feb.  15.  Hannah,  b.  1810,  Oct.  4;  m.  1836,  March  22,  Charles  Saunderson, 
of  Lowell.  Josiah,  b.  1812,  Nov.  16;  d.  1814,  April  4.  Thomas  Lawrence, 
b.  1815,  March  23;  m.  1845,  Nov.  27,  Hesta  B.  Kemrael.  Fitz  Henry, 
b.  1817,  May  18;  m.  Charlotte  Kendall.  Judith  Frances,  b.  1819,  Oct.  10; 
lu.  1844.  Oct.  1.  Grenville  Remick. 
STICKNEY.  1.  Abraham,  b.  in  Bradford,  1703,  Oct.  16.  was  son  of 
Samuel,  whose  father  Samuel  was  son  of  William,  of  RoAvley,  the  emigrant 
ancestor.  He  m.  1727-8,  Feb.  20.  Abigail  Hall,  of  Dracut,  and  settled  in 
the  north  part  of  Billerica;  was  deacon  of  the  church  in  Tewksbury.  The 
birth  of  only  two  of  his  children  is  recorded  in  Billerica.  He  d.  1783. 
Aug.  23.  Ch.  Abigail,  b.  1731,  July  12;  m.  James  Kittredge  (see  10). 
Abraham,  b.  1733.  Nov.  28;  m.  Sarah  Kittredge,  dau.  of  James,  10;  had 
10  children,  and  d.  in  Tewksbury,  1803.  Benjamin,  b.  1737,  Dec.  1 ;  settled 
in  Townsend.  Me.,  and  d.  1835.  James,  b.  1742,  Aug.  6;  settled  in 
Newburgh.  N.  Y.;  had  8  children,  and  d.  1823.  Samuel,  b.  about  1743; 
lived  in  New  Boston,  N.  H. ;  had  7  children,  and  d.  1826.  Elizabeth  died 
young.  William,  b.  about  1747;  was  a  loyalist,  and  d.  1781  ;  had  one  son, 
William. 
 - 530 - 
STICKNEY.  145 
2.  William,  cousin  of  Abraham,  Avas  son  of  William,  of  Bradford, 
b.  1704-5,  Oct.  14.  His  mother,  Anna  Hazeltine,  m.  2d.  .Samuel  Hunt,  1. 
He  m.  1729,  June,  Anna  Whiting,  dau.  of  Oliver,  3,  who  d.  1749,  March  26, 
and  he  m.  1749,  Nov.  23,  Mrs.  Hannah  Abbot,  widow  of  Jeremiah,  5.  He 
bore  a  leading  part  in  town  aftairs  during  tlie  Revolution,  as  member  of  tlie 
Committee  of  Safety  and  of  the  Provincial-  Congress.  Was  town  clerk  and 
selectman  many  years.  He  d.  1781,  Aug.  27;  his  widow  d.  1789,  Feb.  17, 
aged  75.  Ch.  William,  b.  1729-30,  Marefi  2,  and  d.  1732,  April  17.  Samuel, 
b.  1731,  Dec.  21,  and  d.  1748,  Aug.  28.  William,  b.  1733,  Aug.  27,  and 
d.  1734,  May  2.  Anna,  b.  1734-5,  March  3,  and  d.  1738.  April  1.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1737,  July  23;  m.  Job  Lane,  of  Bedford,  and  died  there  a  widow,  1815, 
June.  Benjamin,  b.  1738-9,  March  3;  d.  1749,  Nov.  27.  Eleaser,  4:. 
b.  1740,  Aug.  30.  William,  5,  b.  1743,  April  3.  Anna,  b.  1745-G.  March  9, 
and  d.  1749,  Nov.  20.  John,  b.  1748,  March  29,  and  d.  1749,  Nov.  17.  Anna 
b.  1751,  May  17;  d.  1844,  Aug.  31.  Benjamin,  b.  1752,  Oct.  28,  and 
d.  Nov.  11.  Sarah,  b.  1754,  March  31 ;  m.  1784,  Oct.  3,  Ezra  Trask  Foster, 
of  Ipswich.     Joseph,  b.l75G.  Feb.  29,  and  d.  Marcli. 
3.  Daniel,  brother  of  William  2,  b.  in  Bradford,  170G-7,  Feb.  6; 
m.  1730,  Dec.  15,  Mary  Hill,  daughter  of  Jonathan,  9.  He  Avas  captain  of  a 
troop  of  liorse  which  marched  to  the  relief  of  Fort  William  Henry  in  1757. 
Aug.,  but  Avent  only  as  far  as  Marlboro",  N.  H.  He  d.  1788,  April  25;  his 
AvidoAV  d.  1798,  June  28.  Ch.  Jonathan,  b.  1730-1,  Jan.  2,  and  d.  Jan.  21. 
David.  6,  b.  1732-3,  Jan.  5.  Jonathan,  7,  b.  1736,  Aug.  17.  Mary.  b.  1738-9, 
Jan.  11 ;  m.  James  Goss.  Jeremiah,  b.  1741,  May  12,  and  d.  1749,  July  15. 
Sarah,  b.  1743,  Aug.  15,  and  d.  1749,  July  25.  Bachel,  b.  1746,  April  1; 
m.  Oliver  Crosbj"  (24). 
4.  Eleazer^  son  of  William,  2,  b.  1740,  Aug.  30;  m.  1763,  Jan.  25. 
Martha  Brown,  dau.  of  Samuel,  7.  She  d.  1818,  May  21.  He  Avas  in 
Colonel  Bridges'  regiment  at  Bunker  Hill;  lived  in  TeAvksbury;  d.  1824, 
Jan.  5.  Ch.  Martha,  h.  1763,  April  19;  m.  Ebenezer  Sanders,  12.  Mary, 
b.  1764,  Oct.  28;  m.  Benjamin  Sanders,  13.  Samuel,  b.  1706,  Feb.  7;  lived 
in  Fitzwilliam,  N.  H.,  Leicester,  Vt.,  and  in  Sandy  Hill,  N.  Y. ;  had  9  ch. 
Anna,  b.  1767,  Oct.  14,  and  d.  Oct.  17.  Anna.  h.  1768,  Oct.  29;  m.  Thomas 
Patch,  and  had  9  ch.  Joshua,  b.  1770,  July  26,  and  d.  1813,  Feb.  7. 
Benjamin,  b.  1772,  April  4,  and  d.  April  22.  Bhoda,  b.  1773,  May  17,  and 
d.  1775,  Sept.  9.  Benjamin,  b.  1775.  July  3;  m.  and  liA'ed  in-NcAV  York 
City;  liad  15  ch.  and  d.  about  1855.  Bhoda,  b.  1777,  June  15,  and  d.  1778, 
Feb.  4.  Bhoda,  b.  1779.  Jan.  10;  m.  Robert  Fuller,  of  Dedham.  Jeremiah, 
b.  1781,  April  9,  and  d.  1810,  Aug.  6.  William,  b.  1783,  June  22;  lived  in 
Boston  and  CharlestoAvn  ;  had  9  cli.  and  d.  1868.  Jan.  12.  His  son  William 
A.  is  a  Universalist  clergjanan  in  Conn.,  and  Charles  L.  is  a  publisher  in 
New  York.     Bizpah.  b.  and  d.  1785,  Sept.  28. 
5.  William,  son  of  William,  2,  b.  1743,  April  3;  m.  1768,  March  10, 
Abigail  Walker,  dau.  of  Robert,  11.  He  declined  the  appointment  of 
deacon  after  his  father's  death.  Was  at  Bunker  Hill  and  in  the  Rhode 
Island  service.  Removed  to  Townshend,  Vt.,  1784,  and  d.  there  1831, 
Oct.  26.  His  Avife  d.  1818,  April  17.  Ch.  William,  b.  1768,  June  16;  lived 
in  Grafton,  Vt.  ;  
liad  10  ch.  and  d.  1860,  Feb.  21.  Abigail,  b.  1770,  March  6; 
m.  Abijah  Beard  (see  13).  Elizabeth,  b.  1772,  May  31 ;  m.  John  Eastman, 
and  d.  1856,  May  15.  Anna,  b.  1774.  May  3 ;  
m.  David  Walker,  and  d.  1826. 
Sarah,  b.  1776,  July  30;  m.  Francis  Blanehard,  13.  John,  b.  1778, 
Aug.  30 ;  lived  in  Plymouth,  Vt.  ;  3  ch.  ;  d.  1846.  Benjamin,  b.  1780, 
Dec.  27;  lived  in  Grafton,  Vt.  ;  
10  ch.  ;  d.  in  Burton,  Ohio,  1824.  Isaac,  b. 
1782,  Oct.  12 ;  d.  in  Boston,  1809,  Nov.  ;  and,  b.  in  Grafton  :  Bolly,  b.  1784, 
Sept.  23 ;  m.  George  W.  Walker.  Silence,  b.  1786,  Dec.  1 ;  ni.  Jared 
Farmer.  Josiah.  b.  1789,  Jan.  6;  a  well-lcnown  and  honored  business  man 
of  Boston;  banker;  Director  of  the  Western,  Boston  &  Albany,  and 
Passumpsic  Railroads  ;  Director  and  President  of  the  Massachusetts 
Horticultural  Society.  He  has  7  ch.  of  Avliom  Josiah  Henry  is  a  veterinary 
surgeon  in  Boston. 
 - 531 - 
146  STICKNEY  —  TALBOT. 
6.  David,  son  of  Daniel.  3,  b.  1732-3,  Jan.  5;  ni.  1765,  Jan.  3,  Kezia^ 
Shed,  willow  of  Benjamin.  13.  He  went  trumpeter  in  the  troop  of  which 
his  fatlier  A\as  eajitain.  About  1781  lie  removed  to  (Jrafton,  Vt..  and  d. 
there  18(17.  Sei)t.  17.  C'h.  Daidcl.  b.  17()r).  Oct.  7;  a  pioneer  in  Putnam. 
Oliio;  liad  10  cli.  and  d.  there  1822,  Sept.  17.  Mary,  b.  1767,  Jan.  3;  m. 
Ziba  Howard.  Ilatinah.  b.  1768.  Dec.  28;  m.  Peter  Pettengill.  and  d.  1842. 
Mav  21.  David,  b.  1770.  Xov.  !!>;  lived  in  Grafton,  Vt.  and.  Holland 
Purchase.    N.  Y. ;   
had  8  ch;   d.  in  Illhiois.  1S54.  Oct.  1.      Ann.  b.  1772. 
June  18;    ni.      Dilno.  of  Xortliampton.  and  d.  1801,  Nov.  25.     Jonathan. 
b.  1775,  Jul.v  20;   d.  1704.  Se])t.  3. 
7.  Jonathau,  son  of  Daniel.  3,  b.   1736,  Aug.  17;    m.  Silence    . 
He  enlisted  for  the  invasion  of  Canada,  1750;  was  at  Bunker  Hill  and  in 
other  Revolutionary  service;  and.  in  1785,  as  Major,  he  led  the  Billerica 
Artillery  in  a  snow-storm  to  Cambrido;e  to  guard  the  Supreme  Judicial 
Court  during-  Shaj's'  rebellion;  d.  1802,  April  30,  and  his  \\'idow  1807. 
March  23,  aged  69.     Ch.  SHencc  b.  1758,  Aug.  13;   m.  Benjamin  Bowers,  7. 
SUMSETT,  Siuil,  and  r>vdia  York  m.  1777,  .April  24.  "
TALBOT.     1.     Charles  and  I'hebe   White  were  m.  in  Ireland.  1802. 
Dec.  28.  and  soon  came  to  America.     He  lived  in  New  Yoi'k  City  and  in 
Cambridge.  N.  V..  where  he  engaged  in  woolen  manufactin-ing.     In  1810. 
he  removed  to  Danby,  Vt.  and  d.  there  1823.  March  13.  and  his  widow  d. 
in  Michigan,  1841.  Feb.  13.     Ch.  John    ]Valpol(\  b.  1805,  April  25;    lived  in 
Centerville.  Michigan.     Charles  Potts.  2,  b.  1807.  May  19.     Edward  Haskftt. 
b.  1810,  Aug.  7;   d.  1837.  Sept.  11.     Elizabeth  Lucinda.  b.  1812,   Aug.  5;   d. 
1843.    Joseph    Whit'u  b.   1814.  Aug.  24.     Richard  Ela.  b.   1816.  June  17; 
these   two    brothers   live   in    GeorgetOAvn,   Texas.       Thomas.   3,   b.    1818. 
Sept.  7.     EUas   IViV/mjH.  b.  1820,  July  27;  died  in  Texas,  1876.     Eleanor,  h. 
1822,  Julv  23  ;   d.  1823,  Oct.  8. 
2.  Charles  Potts,  son  of  Charles.  1,  b.  1807.  May  19;  m.  1835.  May  3. 
Harriet  E.  Rogers,  of  Lempster.  N.  H.  He  came  to  Billerica  in  1839. 
having  previously  been  engaged  in  the  manufacture  of  broadcloths  in 
Williamsburii'.  He  now  lives  in  Lowell.  Of  his  three  ch..  Jnlian.  was  b(U'n 
in  Billerica,  1842.  May  27. 
3.  Thomas,  son  of  (,'harles.  1,  b.  1818,  Sept.  7.  A  good  portrait  of 
this  gentlemen  is  given  as  the  appropriate  frontispiece  of  this  volume. 
He  is  the  first  citizen  of  tlie  town  who  has  l)een  honored  by  an  election^  to 
athe  Chief  Magistracy  of  the  ConunonANcalth.  and  while  notice  of  him'  as 
Billerica  maimfaclurer  belongs  to  the  chajiter  on  that  subject,  some 
account  of  his  more  pul)lic  relations  may  properly  be  given  here. 
Mr.  Talbot's  widowed  mother  was  a  woman  of  cliaracter  and  energy. 
In  1825  she  removed  to  Northampton,  Mass.,  seeking  employment  for  her 
large  family  hi  the  woolen  mills  of  that  beautiful  town.  But  opportunity 
to  attend  the  public  schools  was  carefully  secured  to  her  children,  and  the 
future  governor  was  fortunate  enougli  to  spend  two  winter  terms  in  Cum- 
mington  Academy,  1838  and  1839.  He  liad  previously  l)een  in  the  mill  of 
his  t)rothers  at  Williamsburg,  and  in  the  spring  of  lM39]ie  was  employed 
as  finisher  of  broadcloth  in  the  Pontoosuc  Mills  at  Pittsfield.  But  his 
brother  Charles  who  came  to  Billerica  in  l!S39.  December,  invited  Thomas 
to  join  him.  and  the  ))rothers  soon  united  as  C.  P.  Talbot  c<:  Co..  a  firm  still 
pursuing  a  most  honorable  and  successful  career.  Mr.  Talbot  was  chosen 
Representative  in  1851,  and  the  next  year  lie  was  a  member  of  the  Conven- 
tion chosen  to  revise  tlie  Constitution,  and  in  both  ]iositions  showed  tlie 
sagacity  and  firnniess  which  have  always  distinguisheil  him.  From  1864 
to  1869  he  was  a  member  of  the  Executive  Council  aiul  made  his  mark  as  a 
practical  and  wise  cimnsellor  on  public  matters.  In  1872  he  was  elected 
Lieutenant-Governor,  and  was  reelected  in  1873.  On  the  death  of  Senator 
Sunmer  in  March,  1874.  Governor  Washburn  was  elected  to  the  vacancy  in 
the  United  States  Senate,  and  iMr.  Talbot  ))ecame  acting-governor.  To  the 
duties  of  this  position  he  came  with  broad  views  and  firm  convictions,  but 
no  partisan  or  personal  narrowness.     This  ^^as  illustrated  in  his  acticm  on 
 - 532 - 
 - 533 - 
 - 534 - 
TALBOT— TARBELL.  147 
two  important  public  measures.  Tlie  Legislature  passed  a  bill  repealino- 
the  law  prohibiting  the  traffic  in  intoxicating  liquors,  and  great  pressure 
was  brought  to  bear  on  the  governor  to  give  the  bill  his  approval.  The 
leaders  of  the  republican  party  urged  that  it  would  be  impolitic  to  commit 
the  executive  to  the  prohibitory  platform,  against  the  action  of  the  legisla- 
Talbotture, and  would  endanger  their  chances  of  "success  at  the  polls.  BufMr. 
had  always  been  the  foe  of  the  rum  traffic,  and  a  prohibitionist  on 
principle  before  he  was  governor,  and  such  motives  of  policy  did  not  move 
him.  His  ringing  veto  message  was  the  utterance  of  a  straight-forward 
man,  and  became  at  once  a  most  important  contribution  to  the  literature  of 
the  temperance  cause.  On  the  other  hand,  when  a  bill  enacting  the  ten- 
hour  law  was  presented  to  him  for  signature,  the  manufacturing  interests 
of  the  state.  Avith  which  he  was  so  intimately  allied,  ui-ged  aiid  counted 
confidently  upon  his  veto,  and  his  approval  exposed  him  to  an  active  oppo- 
sition. These  influences  united  with  a  reaction  in  national  politics  by 
AVhich  the  republican  party  lost  its  majority  in  the  House  of  Representatives  ; 
and,  although  receiving  the  almost  unanimous  renominatiou  of  his  party, 
Mr.  Talbot  failed  by  a  few  votes  of  reelection.  In  1875  he  declined,  though 
strongly  urged,  to  be  again  a  candidate,  and  Hon.  Alexander  H.  IJice  was 
chosen.  He  held  the  office  three  years,  and  in  1878  ]\[r.  Talbot  received 
tlie  unanimous  nomination  of  the  Eepublican  C^onvention  again  for  the 
place.  The  campaign  of  that  year  took  an  unusual  and  exciting  cast  from 
the  independent  candidacj'  of  Gen.  Benjamin  F.  Butler,  of  Lowell,  long  a 
democrat  and  later  a  republican,  but  oil  a  very  full  vote  Mr.  Talbot  was 
elected.  His  message  on  assuming  the  office  again  was  a  very  practical 
state  paper,  and  significant  in  giving  voice  to  the  popular  demand  for 
retrenchment  in  tlie  public  expenditures.  His  administration  commended 
itself  to  tlie  iiopular  judgment  bj-  its  manly  and  business  qualities,  and  he 
would  have  been  renominated  and  reelected  if  he  had  not  early  announced 
that  he  would  not  be  a  candidate.  Mr.  Talbot  has  never  been  an  office- 
seeker,  but  office  and  honor  liaA'e  sought  him  as  a  man  who  could  be  trusted. 
He  has  been  Director  and  President  of  the  Boston  &  Lowell  llailroad; 
State  Director  of  the  Boston  &  Albany  Railroad,  and  the  care  of  trust 
funds  has  often  been  committed  to  his  hands.  He  is  a  Trustee  of  the  Clarke 
Institution  for  Deaf  Mutes  at  Northampton,  and  of  the  Howe  School.  He 
is  a  member  of  the  Historical  Committee,  under  whose  charge  this  volume 
has  been  prepared,  and  has  taken  active  and  helpful  interest  in  it. 
Mr.  Talbot  m.  1848.  Jan.  20,  Mary  Howe  Rogers,  dan.  of  Calvin,  21.  She 
d.  1851,  Sept.  1).  and  he  m.  1855,  Oct.  18.  Isabella  W.  Hayden,  dan.  of  Hon. 
Joel  Hayden.  of  Havdenville.  in  Williamsburg.  Ch.  Hayden.  b.  1856, 
Dec.  29;  d.  1857,  April  30.  Isabella  White,  b.  18-58,  Nov.  22.  Charles. 
Hai/den.  b.  1802.  Jan.  4;  d.  1863.  Dec.  22.  Thomas,  h.  1865,  May  13; 
d.  Julv  9.  Thomas,  b.  1866.  Sept.  18,  Grace,  b.  1869,  Oct.  31.  Le  Boy 
HerrU'k.  b.  1875.  Feb.  25. 
TARBELL.  1.  John,  settled  in  Billerica  proliably  near  1730.  His 
father  John  lived  in  Salem  Village  and  was  probably  son  of  Thomas  of 
Wateitown  and  Groton.  He  m.  1678,  Mary  iSTurse,  dau.  of  Francis  and 
that  unfortunate  Rebecca  who  was  hung  in  Salem  for  witchcraft.  They 
had  other  ch.  :  Mary;   Cornelius;  Jonathan;  Elizabeth  and  Sarah.    John 
was  b.  1680.  Aug.  9;   in.  Hannah    .     He  d.  1757,  Feb.  5,  and  his  widow 
d.  1779,  Dec.  14,  aged  94.  Ch.  William.  2.  John.  Thomas.  Anna.  b.  1717, 
July  17;  m.  Samuel  Parker,  12.  Elizabeth,  b.  1719.  Oct.  14;  m.  John 
Hosley,  3.  Mary.  b.  1722.  May.  in  Lynnfield.  Jonathan  and  David., 
b.  1726,  Sept.  25,  in  Lynnfield.  David  was  in  the  Louisburg'  Expedition  of 
1745.  and  m.  1751,  Aug.  1.  Hannah   Fitch,   dau.   of  Benjauiin,   3. 
2.  William,  sou  of  John.  1,  m.  1735-6.  Feb.  19.  Ruth  Richardson, 
dau.  of  Thomas;  3.  She  d.  1764,  Oct.  14.  and  he  m.  1765.  Oct.  31.  Elizabeth 
Walker,  widow  of  Joseph.  6.  His  will  was  jiroved  1800.  Feb.  Ch.  William 
b.  1736,  Mav  26;  d.  1748,  March  22.  John,  b.  1738.  Nov.  19.  Ruth. 
b.  1739.  June^25;  d.  1748.  March  16.     Abigail,  b.  1741.  April  23;  m.  Samuel 
 - 535 - 
148  TARBELL  —  TOMFSON.     ' 
Walker.  10.  IlannnK  b.  1743,  May  23.  Surah,  b.  1744-5,  Feb.  15;  d.  1748, 
iNIarch  21.  ThoniKs,  b.  1746,  Oct.  1 ;  
d.  1748,  March  8.  William,  3,  b.  1752, 
Oct.  3. 
3.  William,  son  of  AVilliam.  2,  b.  1752,  Oct.  3;  m.  1776.  March  2, 
Elizabeth  Freiu-li,  dau.  of  t5aiiiuel,  15.  Ch.  WiUiam,  4,  b.  1777,  Feb.  3. 
Benjamin,  b.  1778.  Oct.  2.  Elizabeth,  b.  1780.  Nov.  9.  Samuel,  b.  1782, 
Oct.  31.  Bath,  b.  1786,  April  12;  d.  1787,  May  16.  Sarah,  b.  1790,  Jan.  27. 
Ira,h.  1799.  Aui?.  9. 
4.  William,  son  of  William,  3,  b.  1777,  Feb.  3;  m.  1802,  Dec.  12, 
Abigail  Allen,  dau.  of  Thomas,  3<  She  d.  1845,  May  17.  Ch.  Abigail,  m. 
John  Richardson,  31. 
5.  Jonathan,  and  Betty  Levistone  m.  1802,  Feb.  21. 
1656,TAY.  1.  "William  was  granted  '-a  ten-acre  lot  or  one  single  sliare," 
November.  The  tirst  location  of  a  part  of  this  grant  was  made  1658, 
December,  as  follows  :  '"lifty  and  six  acres"  (or  one-half  of  his  upland) 
•*be  it  more  or  less,  his  house  standing  upon  part  of  the  same,  bounded  by 
ye  country  road  on  y'^  
East  ;  by  the  cumons  (partly  East)  and  South;  and 
North,  partly  by  ye  eomons,  partly  by  will'"  (  liamberline  and  will'"  French, 
partly  by  lienery  Jeiils.  and  on  y*  West  and  North-AVest  partly  by  eomons 
and  partly  by  lienery  Jeitts  ;  also  what  meadow  lyeth  in  y*^  said  land  is 
granted  to  him  for  one  acre  and  a  quarter,  in  part  of  his  tirst  division  of 
meadow."  This  plac^  was  west  of  Bare  Hill,  and  was  near  if  not  exactly 
where  Dr.  Noyes  lives.  Mr.  Tay  was  in  Boston  as  early  as  1643,  a  dis- 
tiller there.  lie  was  town  clerk,  1604.  As  his  name  does  not  a])pear  on 
the  garrison-list  of  1675,  it  seems  ])robable  that  he  tied  to  Boston  before 
the  iiidian" alarms  of  that  year,  and  never  returned,  as  he  died  there.  1  aui 
indebted  to  Savage  for  his  family  record.  He  m.  1644,  Sept.  14.  Grace 
Newell,  of  Koxbury.  His  will  was  proved  1683,  April  12.  and  gives  his 
age  72.  His  widow  d.  in  Roxbury  1712,  April  11.  aged  91.  Ch.  Grace,  b. 
1645,  Aug.  23;  m.  Thomas  Willice,  2.  John.  h.  1647,  Nov.  16,  and  d. 
before  his  father,  leaving  dau.  Elizabeth.  Isaiah,  b.  1650-1,  March  4;  was 
in  King  Philip's  War,  and  lived  in  Boston;  a  Representative  in  1700,  and 
often  after.  Abiel,  b.  16.53-4.  Jan.  21.  Nathaniel,  2,  b.  1655-6.  Feb.  23. 
Jeremiah,  b.  1657,  July  18 ;   
lived  in  Boston.     Elizabeth,  b.  1660.  June  25. 
2.  Nathaniel,  son  of  William.  1,  b.  1655-6,  Feb.  23;  m.  1677,  May  30, 
Barshaba,  dau.  of  John  Wynian,  of  Woburn.  He  sold  his  homestead  1691, 
April  8.  to  Simon  Crosby,  and  removed  prob.  to  AVoburn.  Ch.  Nathaniel, 
b.  1678,  June  17.  Sarah,  b.  1680.  April  15.  Barshaba,  b.  1682,  March  30. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1683-4.  ]Mareh  15.  Grace,  b.  1086,  April  20.  3Iari/,  b.  1088-9. 
March  16;   d.  1694-5.  Jan.  9. 
3.  Archelaus,  of  AVoburn,  married  Sarah  Cook,  daughter  of  Paul,  1. 
Ch.  Susanna,  m.  Benjamin  Pollard,  9.     Phebe,  m.  John  S.  Center,  21. 
TAYLOR.     1.     Abigail,  of  Concord;   m.  Benjamin  Bacon,  5. 
2.  Rebecca,  m.  Joseph  Bacon,  G. 
3.  Michael,  m.  1790,  Nov.  29,  Abial  Thistle.     She  m.  2d  Walter  Carr. 
TEMPLE,  Benjamin,  of  Tewksbury,  m.  Sarah  Sanders,  daughter  of 
James.  3. 
TENNEY,  Benjamin,  of  Dorchester,  m.  1806,  March  23.  Patty  Ricli- 
ardson,  dau.  of  Oliver,  22.  He  d.  young.  Ch.  Martha,  b.  1808.  March  29; 
m.  1825.  Dec.  13.  Enoch  Foster,  of  Tewksbury.  and  2d     Shed. 
THOMPSON,  John,  of  Boston,  m.  1814,  Oct.  20.  Ann  Richardson, 
dau.  of  Thouias,  21.  His  son,  John  Henry,  spent  his  last  years  in  town, 
and  d.  1878,  June  15,  aged  60.  The  useful  well  in  the  Fox  Hill  cemetery 
was  bored  at  his  expense,  and  he  left  to  the  town  a  legacy  of  $1000  for  the 
care  of  that  cemetery. 
TOMPSON.  1.'  Joseph  was  from  Braintree,  son  of  Rev.  William 
Tompson.  pastor  of  the  chureh  there;  )).  1640,  May  1.  His  elder  brother, 
Williaui.  a  student  at  Harvard  College  with  Mr.  Whiting,  was  a  few  jears 
missionary  among  tlie  Pequot  Indians  at  New  London,  and  died  early. 
Mr.  Tompson  lived  in  the  soutJieast  part  of  tlie  village.     His  house-lot  is 
 - 536 - 
TOMPSON— TOOTH  AKER.  149 
described,  IGGO,  "twenty  and  seaven  aereis,  be  it  more  or  lesse.  lyino-  near 
the  most  easterly  part  (eastward  of  it)  of  Mr.  Dudley's  farme.  being  the 
west  side  of  hogrooten  lot.  Ijounded  by  Si  crosbee  upon  tlie  west,  seaventj^- 
six  pole  and  a  half,  and  X.  by  the  farme  line  forty  and  nine  pole ;  and  by 
William  Hamlet  South,  seaventy-five  pole,  and  by  Peter  Bracket  on  tlie 
East.  *  *  his  East  line  runes  about  y^  middle  of  ash  Swamp."  This  is 
now  Mr.  Tufts'  place,  and  Tufts'  lane  is  a  fragment  of  tlie  ancient  line  of 
the  Dudley  farm  which  bounded  Mr.  Tompson  on  the  north.  The  son  and 
brother  of  ministers,  his  education  was  better  than  that  of  his  neighbors  ; 
and  he  was  chosen  1079-80,  Jan.  19,  the  flrst  schoolmaster  in  town.  It  was 
many  years  before  he  had  a  successoi-.  He  was  deacon  of  the  church,  and 
succeeded  Danforth  as  town  clerk;  and  his  fine  but  not  very  distinct 
writing  is  often  found  in  the  archives  of  the  county  and  state  as  well  as  the 
town.  He  was  Captain  of  the  militarj-  company,  and  Eepresentative  sev- 
eral years.  He  m.  1662.  Julv  22,  Mary  Bracket,  dau.  of  Dea.  Richard,  1. 
She  d.  1678-9,  March  23,  and  he  m.  1680->1.  March  17,  IVIary,  dau.  of  EdAvard 
Denison,  of  Eoxbury.  He  d.  1732,  Oct.  13.  and  she  d.  1743,  Oct.  9,  aged  90. 
Ch.  Bkirii,  b.  1663,  Xov.  18.  Joseph,  b.  1666,  April  8.  Abigail,  b.  1668, 
April  16;  m.  1701,  Dec.  1(5,  John  Watkins.  of  Charlestown.  William,  h. 
1670,  Oct.  3;  d.  1691,  Dec.  22.  Deborah,  b.  1676,  Sept.  29.  Edward,  b. 
1683-4,  Jan.  18.  Benjamin.  2,  b.  1685-6,  Feb.  7.  Elizabeth,  b.  1688.  June  29, 
and  d.  1712,  Aug.  24.  Blarij.  b.  1691.  Nov.  17;  m.  1710,  Ephraim  Man- 
ning. 5. 
2.  Benjamin,  son  of  Joseph,  1,  b.  1685-6,  Feb.  7;  m.  1715,  Nov.  9, 
Alice  Kidder,  dau.  of  Ephraim,  3.  He  d.  1753,  Oct.  28.  She  d.  1785, 
Oct.  19,  aged  92.  Ch.  EUmbeth.  b.  1716,  June  1;  m.  William  Bowers,  2. 
3Inry.  b.  1718.  June  28.  Joseph,  b.  1719-20,  Marcli  24.  Abigail,  b.  1722, 
Aug.  29;  m.  Josiah  Bowers,  3.  William.  3,  b.  1724.  Sept.  16.  Bachel,  b. 
1726-7.  March  7.  Benjamin,  b.  1729.  May  24,  and  d.  June  16.  Alice,  b. 
1730,  Oct.  27;  m.  David  Parker,  13.  'Dorothn,  b.  1736,  May  18;  m. 
Solomon  Kidder,  12.    And  prob.  Bichard.  who  m.  1772,  Sept.  1,  Rebecca 
--i]]aton,  of  Reading. 
3.  William,  son  of  Benjamin.  2,  b.  1724,  Sept.  16;  m.  1757,  Oct.  27, 
Sarali,  dau.  of  William  White,  of  Haverhill,  and  sister  of  Rev.  John 
Chandler's  ^Aife,  and  1768,  Jan.  12,  Mary  Baldwin,  prol)ably  widow  of 
AVilliam,  6.  Mr.  Tompson  was  one  of  tlie  foremost  citizens  in  all  the 
debates  and  measures  of  the  i)eriod  of  the  Revolution,  and  his  memory 
should  be  honored.  His  Avill  was  entered  for  probate  1806,  Oct.  Ch.  Sarah. 
b.  1758,  Jan.  11;  m.  Isaac  Hurd,  1.  Elizabeth,  b.  17.59,  Jan.  18,  and  died 
May  12. 
1768. "TitusNov.    and  Phillis,  servant  of  Ebenezer  Jones,  of  Wilmington,"  m. 
24. 
TOTMAN.  1.  John  appears  on  the  tax-list,  1752.  He  was.  perhaps, 
brother  of  Alice,  who  m.  John  AVilson.  6 ;  prob.  father  of  Rebecca,  who 
m.  Jeremiah  Baldwin  {see  12),  and  of 
2.  John,  who  m.  1773,  Oct.  15,  Sarah  Dickason.  He  d.  1782,  May  1, 
and  she  in.  Isaac  Manning  {see  8).  Ch.  James,  b.  1773,  Dec.  8.  Bhoda,  b. 
1775,  Dec.  8.  Asa.  b.  1778,  May  13.  Salhi,  b.  1780.  June  5;  m.  1804, 
Feb.  12.  Lutlier  Penniman.     William,  b.  1782.  Oct.  14. 
TOOTHAKER.  1.  Roger  came  in  the  ship  Hopewell.  Thomas  Babb, 
master,  1635,  Sept.  16 ;  age  1  year.  His  father.  Roger,  aged  23.  died  after 
the  birth  of  a  daughter,  Martha,  who  m.  Ralph  Hill,  2,  and  his  mother 
Margaret,  aged  28,  in.  1638,  Ralph  Hill,  sen.  He  had  "leave  to  abj'de  in" 
Charlestown,  1654.  and  "•6.  O^o.  1660.  The  town  of  Billerica  liave  granted 
unto  Roger  Toothaker  lyljerty  to  live  in  y<^  
Towne,  and  to  settle  upon  and 
Improve  yt  lot  which  his  father  Ralph  Hill,  sen.,  gave  him,  wliicli  Ij^eth  in 
the  great  comon  feild  on  y«  East  side  of  Concord  River,  below  y^  great 
bridge;  also  the  Towne  do  grant  him  comonage  and  lierbage,  wood  and 
timber,  for  his  use,"  Here  he  had  his  home,  wliich  was  prob..  Avhen  built, 
the  extreme  northern  house  hi  town.    It  is  said  to  be  still  standing  as  the 
 - 537 - 
150  TOOTMAKER  —  TIU'LL. 
'eir  of  the  It()>'(Ms  house  ;it  th(^  plai-c  wlicre  the  canal  leaves  the  river.  In 
1664.  he  excliauiit'd  about  live  acres  which  lay  west  of  the  road  for  twelve 
acres  "lying  on  both  sides,  and  takiii<>'  in  that  long  spang  of  meadow 
up°  the  pine  plaine.  on  this  side  the  conion  fciid,  on  the  East  side  of  it." 
This  exchange  was  doubtless  made  to  secure  to  the  town  the  mill  privilege 
for  future  use.  H(^  seems  to  have  i)ractised  medicine,  and  was  called 
'doctor'  at  Salem.  1)ut  our  IJecctrds  do  not  give  the  title.  Jn  1682-3, 
March  12.  at  a  Selectmen's  meeting.  •'Ifoger  Toothaker,  being  sent  tor  and 
spoken  vmto  concerning  many  things  amiss  in  liis  family,  lie  desired  they 
Avould  exercise  a  little  nu)re  patience  towards  him,  and  he  promised 
amendm"'  ■'  Jiut  the  amendment  was  not  thorough;  and  1684,  Dec.  1"), 
the  Selectmen  wroti^  a  letter  to  him.  jirolj.  at  Salem,  where  he  seems  to 
have  gone,  '"to  come  for  his  wife  y«  nudle  of  next  A\'eek,  and  that  they 
would  helj)  away  with  liis  family  —  in  case  of  need  and  help  fit  them  out." 
There  was  ••need"  enough,  but  he  did  not  heed  it.  His  wife  received 
charitable  aid.  ;nid  two  of  liis  children  were  ])ut  out  by  the  Selectmen  to 
.losepli  Walker  and  Edward  Fai-mer.  AVhen  the  witchcraft  tvials  came,  in 
which  his  wife's  sister,  INlartha  Carrier,  suffered,  he  appears  as  a  ready 
witness.  Abatement  of  his  tax  as  '"deceased"  was  made  1694,  July.  He 
m.  1665,  June  9,  Mary,  dau.  of  Andrew  Allen,  of  Andover,  and  she  was 
killed  by  the  Indians  1695,  Aug.  5.  Ch.  Nathaniel,  b.  1666,  April  27 ;  d. 
1683.  May  18.  Martha,  b.  1668.  July  23.  AUin.  b.  1670,  July  17.  Bnrjer,  2, 
b.  1672.  Nov.  27.  Mari],  b.  1675.  June  7,  and  d.  Oct.  14.  3Iary,  b.  1676, 
Sept.  28,  and  d.  1683,  Dec.  5.  Andrev\  b.  1679.  Oct.  4.  3Iargaret,  h. 
1682-3,  Jan.  31  ;   
taken  captive  when  her  mother  was  killed, 
2.  Roger,  doctor,  son  of  Roger,  1,  b.  1672,  Xov.  27;  ni.  1703, 
July  20.  Sarah  IJogers.  prob.  dau.  of  John,  2.  She  d.  1717-8,  March  8. 
and  he  m.  1718.  Aug.  7.  Phebe  Baldwin,  dau.  of  John.  1.  She  d.  1736, 
Sept.  19.  and  he  d.  1745-6.  March  9,  leaving  a  widow  Mary.  Ch.  3Iar(faret, 
b.  1703-4,  Jan.  9;  ni.  1733-4,  Jan.  28,  El)eiiezer  Fetch,  of  Eeading.  Marij, 
b.  1705,  Oct.  26;  ni.  John  Rogei-s,  8,  and  2d  Dr.  Benjamin  Atlierton. 
Grace,  b.  1708.  July  3.  Sarah,  b.  1710,  Ai)ril  4 ;  m.  John  Levestone  (see  2). 
Boger,  3,  h.  1712,  July  28.     Martha,  b.  1717,  Sept.  27. 
"  
dau. 3.of   Roger,  doctor,  son  of  Roger,  2,  b.  1712.  July  28 ;  m.  Mary  Crosby, 
Josiah.  5,  who  survived  him.  lie  d.  1759.  Dec.  20.  Ch.  Eoger,  4, 
b.  1744.  Sept.  5.  Timothy,  5,  b.  1745,  Dec.  4.  AUin,  b.  1747,  Aug.  1.  He 
m.  Abigail  French,  of  Dunstable,  and  settled  in  medical  practice  at  Merri- 
mac,  N.II.  He, , 
went  to  Boston  to  care  for  his  brother  Timothj%  and 
contracted  a  fever  of  which  he  d.  at  Meriimac  1775,  July  12.  MoUe,  b. 
1749,  June  24.  and  d.  March  7.  Mary,  b.  1751,  April  13;  m.  1779,  Dec.  9, 
Zechariah  (ioodhue,  of  Dracut.  Sarah,  b.  1758,  Jime  5;  m.  Samuel  Dan- 
forth.  25. 
4.  Roger,  son  of  Roger.  3,  b.  1744,  Sept.  5;  m.  Mary  Wright,  of 
Wilmington.  Ch.  Eager,  b.  1771,  Jan.  4.  Lucretia,  b.  1773,  Dec.  28. 
Caroline,  b.  1775.  April  4.     Mary,  b.  1777.  Feb.  8.     Charles,  b.  1779,  Aug.  7. 
5.  Timotliy,  son  of  Roger.  3,  b.  1745.  Dec.  4;    m.  Lydia    r.     He 
was  wounded  at  Bunker  Hill,  and  d.  soon  after  the  battle.  Ch.  Lydia,  b. 
1767,  Dec.  5.  ;S'«ra/(,  b.  1771,  Feb.  8.  YMoi/;?/,  b.  1773,  June  18.  Allen,h. 
1775,  June  24. 
TRULL.  1.  John  Avas  granted  a  six-acre  lot  in  1658.  It  is  reported 
that  he  had  been  previously  a  
river  and  Vine  brook,  and     "tenant  of  Captain  Gookin's  farm  on  Shawshin 
that  he  had  lived  in  the  Shawshin  house.  His 
home  grant  was  ••  sixteen  acres."  more  or  less,  "lying  on  y<=  North-East 
angle  of  y^  Township,  part  of  which  is  his  house-lot.  Bounded  by 
Golden  More  and  Jolni  Foulter  on  y^  South,  and  y*  comons  elsewhere 
surrounding."  This  was  in  1775  the  Colonel  Bridge  jdace,  at  tlie  end  of  a 
lane  Ic'-ading  east  from  Long  street,  now  owned  l)y  Mrs.  Farmer.  He  m. 
1657,  Dec.  11,  Sarah,  dau.  of" John  French,  of  Caml)ridge,  who  was  brother 
of  Lieut.  William,  1.  She  was  b.  1()37.  Oct,,  and  d.  1710,  Sept.  26.  He  d. 
1704,  June  15,  aged  about  70.     Ch.  John.  b.  1658-9,  Jan.  13;   d.   Feb.  1. 
 - 538 - 
TRULL.  151 
Sarah,  l>.  1660,  May  27.  Manj,  b.  1662.  July  22;  lu.  Benjamin  Parker  6. 
John,  b.  1665,  May  19;  d.  June  22.  Elizabeth,  b.  1G6S.  May  .31  ;  d.  July  11. 
John,  3,  b.  1669.  July  13.  Hannah,  b.  1671,  Oct.  L5.  Samuel,  4,  bapt. 
1673.  Dee.  7.  Joseph,  b.  1675,  May  14,  and  d.  June  25.  Enoch,  b.  1676 
Oct.  12;  d.  Dec.  12.  Joseph,  b.  1679.  May  18;  d.  Sept.  5.  Elizabeth,  b. 
1681,  May  13;   d.  Dee.  16. 
2.  Samuel,  perhaps  a  brother  of  John,  was  granted  1(561.  Xov.  19 
"liljerty  to  fall  timber  on  ye  eomons,  to  build  himself  a  house  and  to  fence 
in  his  land,  and  to  keep  a  cow  or  two  and  one  or  two  swine  upon  tlie 
eomons;  and  they  do  grant  No  further  Town  Priviledges  at  the  present." 
In  1664.  Maich  28.  "They  have  granted  more  to  him:  one  slip  of  land, 
lying  on  y^  South  of  his  own  land  w^''  he  purchased  at  the  great  comon 
feild.to  rune  from  y«  highway  (upon  y^  great  plaine,  leading  "to  y^  comon 
feild)  Westward  unto  the  brook,  which  is  at  y"  South- West  corner  of  that 
great  comon  feild.  whicli  land  is  granted  liim  to  set  his  house  upon." 
This  brook  is  west  of  the  Roman  ('atholic  church,  and  Trull's  house  was 
near.  In  1667  he  received  "priviledge  upon  our  town  eomons  for  y«  futur, 
and  in  all  lands  whicii  are  not  yet  "divided  nor  agreed  upon  for  division 
before  this  day,  to  y«  ])roportion  of  one-quarter  of  a  tenn-aere  lot."'  He 
m.  16()8,  June  15.  Ann,  the  widow  of  William  Hale,  who  lived  just  south 
of  the  Great  Bridge  near  by,  and  had  d.  May  20.  She  d.  witl'iout  issue, 
,1692,  April  21,  and  a  second  wife  d.  1712,  May  16.  Mr.  Tiull  did  not 
prosper,  and  became  a  ward  of  the  town.  At  a  meeting.  1701.  Aug.  19 
the  town  instructed  the  Selectmen  "to  build  a  logg-house  foi-  Samuel  Trull' 
sen.,  upon  the  land  that  the  town  hath  granted  unto  him  to  improve  for  his 
life-time  ;  the  building  to  be  eighteen  foot  long  and  fourteen  foot  wide 
from  outside  to  outside,  and  the  Joyce  to  ly  upon  tlie  plate  and  to  be 
boarded  up  and  down,  and  a  snuill  cellar;  the  chimbly  to  be  Avithin  the 
eighteen  foot,  and  to  se  unto  the  tinishing  thereof;  and  notice  to  be  "Iven 
unto  persons  to  labour  therein,  and  such  who  shall  labour  upon  it  to'liave 
credit,  and  the  cost  of  it  to  be  given  in  to  be  put  into  the  town-rate,  to  be 
equally  borne  liy  the  mhal)itance."  When  he  d.  1714,  May  17,  the  town 
distributed  his  eiffects  and  buried  him,  and,  generously,  as  api)ears  by  this 
charge,  "paid  to  John  Blauchard,  15s  for  a  barrel  of  cider  for  Sam*  Trull's 
funeral"!  They  also  paid  4s  for  two  pairs  of  gloves,  and  Gs,  M  for  his 
cotlin. 
3.  John,  son  of  John.  1,  b.  1669.  July  13;  m.  1692,  Apiil  22.  Eliza- 
beth Hooper,  j^rob.  dau.  of  William,  of  Keadiug.  lier  mother  having  m. 
Thomas  Dutton,  1.  She  d.  1698-9,  Jan.  3.  Ch.  John,  b.  1693.  May  5. 
Sarah,  b.  1698,  Oct.  22. 
4.  Samuel,  son  of  John.  1,  bap.  1673.  Dec.  7;   m.  Hannah    ,  
and 
d.  1706.  April  15.  Ch.  Samuel.  5,  b.  1701-2.  Feb.  26.  3Ioses,  6,  b.  1703, 
Jan.  18.     John,  7,  b.  1705,  Oct.  23. 
5.  Samuel,  son  of  Samuel.  4,  b.  1701-2,  Feb.  26;  m.  1726-7,  March  22, 
Marjr  Hazeltine,  probably  daughter  of  Samuel.  They  lived  in  Tewksbury. 
Ch.  Susan)ia,  b.  1728-9,  Feb.  3.  David,  b.  1731-2,  Feb.  23.  3IoUy,  b.  1736, 
July  25 ;   
d.  1759,  April  26. 
6.  Moses,   son  of  Samuel.   4,  b.  1703.  Jan.  18;    m.  Dorothy    . 
Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1728.  Oct.  6.  Moses,  b.  1730,  April  27.  David,  b.  1732, 
April  25.     Israel,  b.  1734.  Sept.  1. 
7.  Jolm,  son  of  Samuel,  4,  (or  possibly  of  John,  3,)  m.  1731,  June  1, 
Mary  Hunt,  dau.  of  Sanuiel.  2.  His  estate  was  settled  1753.  He  lived  on 
the  road  to  Tewksbury,  not  far  from  North  Billerica.  Ch.  Samuel,  8,  b. 
1731-2,  Jan.  7.  Mar)/,  b.  1733.  Dec.  27.  .John,  b.  1737,  Feb.  5.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1740.  Nov.  9.  David,  b.  1744.  June  22;  m.  1789,  Sept.  29,  Alice  Stearns, 
prob.  widow  of  Samuel,  jr.  {see  10). 
8.  Samuel,  son  of  John,   7,  b.  1731-2,  Jan.  7;    m.  Elizabeth    . 
Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1754,  Oct.  27.  Elizabeth,  b.  1756,  March  14;  ni.  1783, 
Dec.  11,  Isaac  Marshall,  of  Tewksbury.  John,  b.  1758,  Feb.  24.  Ehoda, 
b.  1759,  May  31 ;  m.  1790,  June  25,  Asa  Frost,  of  Chelmsfoi-d,  and  d.  in 
 - 539 - 
152  TRULL  —  WALKER 
Billerica,  1845),  Sept.  28.  Josiah,  b.  1761,  May  28.  Willard,  b.  1763, 
March  6.  Elijah^  1).  1765,  Feb.  1;  in.  Lydia  Butler;  lived  in  Townsend. 
Hannah,  1i-  1766,  Dec.  27;  d.  Feb.  10.  Olive,  b.  1769,  Dec.  6;  m.  1794, 
April  1"),  Ebenezer  Frost,  of  Clielinsford.  Hannah,  b.  1773.  July  12 ;  m. 
Joseph  Batchelder.  Ezra,  b.  1775.  May  19.  John,  b.  1777,  Dec.  7.  Alice,, 
b.  1780,  May  5;   in.  Benjamin  Needham  {see  6). 
TUCKER,  Prof.  Samuel,  son  of  Gerry  Tucker,  was  b.  in  Canton,  1841, 
April  29.  Grad.  Tufts  College,  1868,  and  has  been  principal  of  the  Howe 
School  since,  lie  m.  1875.  Nov.  24,  Annie  G.  Baldwin,  dau.  of  Francis,  25. 
Ch.  Samuel  Dunbar,  b.  1876,  Nov.  25. 
TUFTS-  1.  Ebenezer,  m.  1787,  April  21,  Hannah  Levistone,  dau.  of 
Thomas,  4.  Ch.  Hannah,  b.  1781,  July  1.  Katharine,  b.  1783,  May  25;  d. 
June  15. 
2.  Eliakim,  ni.  1788,  May  6,  Sarah  Boss,  dau.  of  John,  5.  Ch.  Sarah 
and  Catherine,  bap.  1791,  March  27. 
3.  GUiorge,  m.  1792,  Sept.  18,  Eebecca  Frost,  dau.  of  Joshua,  14, 
Ch.  Joshua,  b.  1799,  Aug.  11.  Joseph,  b.  1801.  May  24.  John,  b.  1803, 
March  31.     William,  b.  1805,  Oct.  31.     Samuel,  b.  1807,  April  27. 
4.  John.     Ch.  Augustus,  bap.  1800,  June  15. 
5.  Call,  and  wife  Mary.  Ch.  Call,  b.  1807,  Nov.  8.  John,  b.  1810, 
Dec.  30.     Mary,  b.  1816,  Dec.  31. 
6.  Bernard,  son  of  Joseph,  of  Medford,  purchased  the  ancient  Tomp- 
son  place  at  the  end  of  the  lane  in  the  southeast  part  of  the  village,  and  d. 
there  1866,  Dec.  3,  aged  78.  His  son  Edmond  d.  1865,  Nov.  25,  aged  38. 
His  son  Josejjh  B.  now  lives  there. 
TWIST,  James,  of  Woburn,  ni.  1754,  June  27,  Lydia  Farley,  dau.  of 
Joseph,  8. 
TYLER,  John  Steel,  and  wife  Sally.  Ch.  Boyal,  b.  1783,  Oct.  20. 
Sally  Whitwell,  bap.  1785,  Feb.  5;  m.  1813,  Dec.  5,  John  Brailford,  of 
Boston. 
UNDERBILL,  Rnfus  Kittredge,  son  of  Jesse  Jay  Underbill,  of 
Chester,  N.  H..  born  1819,  March  8.  His  ancestry  is  recorded  in  the 
History  of  Chester.  He  has  been  in  the  edge-tool  business  in  Nashua  and 
Boston.  ■  
He  ni.  1848,, Oct.  12,  Eleuthera  D.  Webster,  of  Newport,  N.  H. 
Ch.  Jay  Temple,  b.  18*49,  Nov.  16;  ni.  1873,  Sept.  11,  Carrie  D.  Floyd; 
lives  in  Winchester;  in  business  with  his  father  in  Boston.  Samuel,  b. 
1852,  Ai)ril  1 ;   
is  in  California.     Jessie  Fremont,  b.  1868.  Aug.  22. 
UPTON.     1 .     James,  ni.  1764,  Aug.  9.  Kachel  Holt,  ^'  
both  of  Reading." 
2.  Paul,  of  Wilmington,  m.  1776,  March  14,  Martha  Wilson,  dau.  of 
Seth,  5. 
"WALKER.  1.  Joseph,  was  from  Woburn,  son  of  deacon  Samuel, 
whose  father  Richard  was  in  1630  one  of  the  first  settlers  of  liynn.  He 
had  three  brothers,  Samuel,  Israel,  and  John,  whose  posterity  in  Woburn 
and  elsewhere  has  been  numerous  and  eminent.  "26.  6'"-  67.  The  town  of 
Billerica  granted  to  Joseph  Walker  liberty  to  be  an  inhabitant  in  their 
town,  in  case  bee  can  provide  for  his  owne  comfortable  subsistance  ;  also, 
the  towne  do  declare  willingness  to  gratify  him  with  some  convenience  of 
land,  as  they  shall  see  meet  afterward."'  He  lived  south  of  John  Kittredge, 
beyond  Bare  hill.  ''22.  March.  1668.  The  towne  did  grant  to  Joseph 
Walker  i^riviledge  upon  our  to^\  ne  comons  for  the  future,  in  all  lands  that 
are  not  divided  nor  agreed  upon  for  division  before  this  day,  to  the 
proportion  of  a  five-acre  lot,  or  half  a  single  share."  His  first  allotment 
was  five  or  six  acres  south  of  John  Kittredge  ;  then  one  of  four  acres  ; 
and  another  of  ten  acres  "South-East  of  his  dwelling-house,"  the  line  of 
which  ran  '-upon  the  brow  of  y^  hill,  towards  Mr.  Daniel's  farm,  65  pole." 
His  Jater  grants  were  east  of  the  Shawshin,  and  in  1699  he  purchased  of 
Mr.  Daniel  the  easterly  part  of  the  Church  farm  beyond  the  river,  and 
probably  he  then  lived  in  that  part  of  the  town.  Samuel  Walker,  who 
sold  part  of  this  Church  farm  in  1719  to  Seth  Putnam,  was  his  nephew, 
and  lived  after  in  Burlington.     He  m.  1669,  Dec.  15,  Sarah,  daii.  of  John 
 - 540 - 
 - 541 - 
 - 542 - 
WALKER.  153 
Wyman,  of  Woburn,  b.  there  1650,  April  15.  She  d.  1728-9,  Jan.  20.  He 
d.  1729,  July.  Ch.  Sarah,  b.  1G70,  Oct.  14;  (J.  Oct.  22.  Joseph,  b.  1673, 
Nov.  3 ;  d.  Sarah,  b.  1675-6,  Jan.  8 ;  ni.  1699.  Xov.  22,  Benjamin  Johnson, 
of  Woburn.  Elizabeth,  b.  1677-8,  Feb.  13;  m.  Samuel  Fitch,  1.  Hannah, 
b.  1679-80.  Jan.  1 ;  m.  Nathaniel  Hill.  7.  Snsanna,  b.  1682.  Nov.  4,  and  d. 
Jan.  27.  John,  2,  b.  1684,  April  12.  Benjamin,  3,  b.  1686,  Oct.  29, 
Jacob,  4,  b.  1689,  July  6.     Seth,  5,  b.  1691,  Oct.  12. 
2.  John,  son  of  Joseph,  1,  b.  1684,  April  12;  m.  1707,  July  29,  Mary 
Frost,  dau.  of  Dea.  James,  2.  He  d.  1753,  March  8.  Ch.  3Ianj,  b.  1707-8, 
March  20.  Sarah,  h.  1712,  May  7,  and  d.  1729.  May  22.  Joseph,  6,  b.  1717, 
April  19. 
3.  Benjamin,  son  of  Joseph,  1,  b.  1686,  Oct.  29;  m.  1712.  Dec.  15, 
Susanna  Baldwin,  of  Woburn.  She  d.  after  1731,  and  he  lii.  1746,  Nov.  25. 
Joanna  Ditson,  dau.  of  Hugh,  1.  He  d.  1750,  Aug.  2.  Ch.  Susaiina.  b. 
1714,  Sept.  17,  and  d.  1715.  Dec.  17.  Benjamin,  7,  b.  1715-6.  Jan.  23. 
Ezekiel,  12,  b.  1717,  June  26.  Susanna,  b.  1719.  Oct.  5;  m.  1754,  Aug.  22, 
John  Cheever,  and  had  a  son  John  b.  1756,  Feb.  2.  Daniel,  b.  1721,  Oct.  13. 
Abigail,  b.  1724,  Apill  23;  m.  WiUiam  Dauforth,  15.  Sarah,  b.  1726-7, 
]Marchl4;  m.  Nicholas  Sprake,  3.  Zaet7ie?fs,  b.  1728.  April  7.  Katharine, 
b.  1729,  Se])t.  23.  David,  b.  1731,  Sept.  25,  whose  widow  Sarah  appears  on 
tax-list,  1755. 
4.  Jacob,  son  of  Joseph,  1,  b.  1689,  July  6;   m.  Hannah    .     His 
will  was  proved  1766,  Oct.  14.  Ch.  Joseph,  8,  b.  1714,  Aug.  21.  Hannah. 
b.  1715,  Oct.  16;  in.  Samuel  Eichardson,  10.  Elizabeth,  b.  1716-7,  Feb.  28; 
m.  Hezekiah  Richardson  (see  5).  Jacob.  9,  b.  1719-20,  Jan.  17.  Phebe.  b. 
1723,  May  5;   m.  1744-5,  March  14,  John  Lewis,  of  Wilmington. 
5.  Seth,  son  of  Joseph,  1,  b.  1691.  Oct.  12;  m.  1716.  April  4.  Ellener 
Chandler,  of  Concord.  He  was  living  in  Groton  in  1734,  and  tibout  1750 
was  one  of  the  pioneers  in  the  settlement  of  Charlestowu,  N.  IL,  first 
known  as  Number  Four.  His  wife  d.  1769,  Nov.  6,  aged  74.  He  d.  1772, 
July  7.  He  prob.  had  other  ch.  than  tlie  four  here  named.  Ch.  Seth.  b. 
1717,  April  16 ;  m.  Abigail  Holden.  of  Groton.  where  he  had  ch.  Nathaniel, 
Sybil,  Seth,  and  x^bigail  ;  and  in  Shirley  :  Asa,  Nathaniel,  Isaac,  Jabez, 
Marj",  Jemima,  and  Emma.  He  removed  to  Charlestowu  about  1770,  and 
d.  there.  Ellener.  b.  1718-9.  March  11;  and,  b.  in  Groton.  Abel.  b.  1734, 
April  20 ;  captain  and  inn-holder  in  Charlestowu,  and  a  leading  man  in  the 
town  during  and  after  the  Revolution.  He  d.  1815.  March  11.  Sybil,  b. 
1735-6.  Maivh  23. 
6.  Joseph,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1717,  April  19;  m.  1739,  Dec.  4, 
Elizabeth  Walker,  of  Woburn.  He  d.  1764,  and  she  m.  William  Tarbell.  2. 
Ch.  John.  b.  1740.  July  25.  Joseph,  b.  1742,  Aug.  22.  Elizabeth,  b.  1744, 
Aug.  19;  d.  Samuel.  10,  b.  1746,  May  12.  A'rtra/;,  b.  1747-8,  Feb.  4;  m. 
John  Beard,  16.  Jesse,  b.  1749,  Sept.  13.  Supply,  b.  1751,  Marcli  20. 
Mary  and  3Iargery.  b.  1753,  Nov.  15.  Ann,  b.  1755.  Sept.  7.  Timothy,  b. 
1758.  July  27;  m.  1783,  Dec.  9,  Hannah  Gleason,  dau.  of  AVilliam,  1;  lived 
in  Brownfield,  ]Me.     Elizabeth,  b.  1760,  Se])t.  6;   bap.  1762,  April  11. 
7.  Benjamin,  son  of  Benjamin.  3,  b.  1715-6,  Jan.  23;    m.  Hannah 
  .     He  died  about  1755.     Ch.  Benjamin,  b.  1741,  Oct.  6.      William,  b. 
1742-3,  March  22.  Hannah,  b.  1745,  March  26;  in.  1769,  March  20,  Silas 
Early  (V)  of  Marlboro'.     Susanna,  b.  1746-7.  Jan.  21.     Zaccheus.  h.  1748-9, 
-March  12.     Samj)son,  b.  1751,  April  4.     Eliakim.  l)ap.  1753,  April  1. 
8.  Joseph,   son    of   Jacob,   4,   b.   1714,  Aug.   21 ;    ni.   Abigail    . 
Ch.  Abigail,  b.  1738,  July  25.  Lucy.  b.  1740,  June  19.  Esther,  b.  1742, 
June  23.  Hannah,  b.  1744,  May  18;  m.  John  Wright,  1.  Jlille.  b.  1746, 
June  14;  m.  1765,  May  1,  Moses  Goddard,  of  Marlboro".  Elijah,  b.  1748, 
Aug.  2.  Keziah,  h.  1750,  Oct.  2.  Silas,  b.  1^52,  Nov.  4.  Phebe,  b.  1755, 
March  22.     Jemima,  b.  1757,  June  3. 
9.  Jacob,  son  of  Jacob,  4,  b.  1719-20,  Jan.  17;   m.  Ursle    .     The 
inventory  of  his  estate  is  dated  1752,  Dec.  14.  Ch.  Jacob,  b.  1749-50. 
Feb.  19.      Ursle.  b.  1751,   Dec.  18;    m.  1773,  Jan.  14,  Isaac  Jaquith,  of 
 - 543 - 
154  WALKER  —  WETHERBEE. 
AV'ilniington.  Pj-obably  Catherine  and  Elizabeth,  "daughteii*  of  widow 
Walker,  of  Wobiini.'"  who  wciv  hap.  1752.  Sept.  24. 
10.  Samuol,  son  of  Joscpl!.  (J,  h.  174(5,  ^ila.y  12;  in.  1774.  Feb.  4, 
Abigail  Tarbell.  dau.  of  \Villiani,  2.  Ch.  ElijuK  b.  1774.  April  28;  d. 
1775,  Aug.  13.  Abigail,  b.  1775.  Sept.  23.  Sarah,  h.  1777,  April  7;  d.  1778, 
March  1.  Sarah,  b.  177i),  March  14.  Joel,  b.  1780,  Dec.  21.  Elijah,  bap. 
1782,  March  17.     Samuel,  bap.  1784.  May  2. 
dau. 11.of   Robert,  not  born  in  Billcrica";  ni.  1743.  Dec.  7,  Elizabeth  Abbot, 
Joshua,  1.  He  d.  1757.  .Jan.  2(i.  She  d.  1803.  Ch.  Elizabeth,  b. 
1745.  April  !).  AbiqaiLh.  IIAV).  OvX.  {')•.  ni.  ^Villianl  Stickney.  5.  Samuel. 
b.  1748.  Ai)ril  12.  Joel.  b.  174!)-50,  Feb.  17.  Liidia,  b.  1752.  March  22;  m. 
Josiali  Ivichardson.  15.  iiVftfcca.  b.  1754.  June  12;  ni.  Ebenezer  Eichard- 
son,  18.     Sarah  and  Hannah,  h.  175(),  June  G. 
12.  Ezekiel,  son  of  Benjamin.  3,  b.  1717.  June  26;   ni.  Amity    , 
who  appears  a  widow  on  tax-list  1757,  and  m.  1759,  Aug.  16,  Daniel 
Baldwin,  of  Pelhani.  Cli.  David,  baj).  1756,  Aug.  8.  Ezekiel.  bap.  1758, 
Feb.   12. 
13.  Dudley.  Ch.  Varmtm  Rand.  Itap.  1802,  Jan.  10.  Richard  Clark 
and  Snmnna  Boiilstan.  bap.  180(i.  June  15.     L'/dia  B..  bap.  1808,  May  6. 
14.  Reuben,  son  of  Mary,  bap.  1768,  Oct.  30. 
WARREN.  1.  Joseph,  of  Chelmsford,  m.  Sarah  Osgood,  dau.  of 
Joseph,  4. 
2.  William  Wilkin's,  m.  Eebecca  Bennett,  dau.  of  Josluia,  3.  See 
Bennett  and  Wilkius. 
WARRICK,  John,  ■•Indian  servant  to  Jonath.  Danforth,  sen.,  dyed — 
15.  11™  1686." 
WATERS,  Samuel,  doubtless  of  Woburn.  1702.  Nov.  30.  exchanged 
30  acres  of  land  south  of  Nutting's  pond  for  20  acres,  near  Cambridge  and 
Concord  line. 
WEB,  Christopher,  was  from  Braintree.  son  of  Christopher,  and 
jirobabiy  l)orn  in  Iilngland  about  1630.  He  was  granted  a  six-acre  privi- 
lege 1659.  Sept.  29.  His  house-lot  was  "thirty  and  two  acres  of  land  * 
lying  on  the  East  side  of  the  country  road  that  goeth  from  Woburn  to 
Chelmsford,  and  is  bounded  by  Cambridge  Church  farme  Southward,  and 
l)y  y''  commons  West  and  East,  and  by  a  highway  on  the  South,  according 
to  bound  markt  trees."  This  place  was  near  the  South  school-house,  and 
*•  Web's  brook"  which  runs  just  below  is  a  memorial  of  his  early  and 
brief  residence.  He  returned  to  Braintree  probably  as  early  as  1665,  for 
the  birth  in  that  year  of  his  daughter  Hannah  is  not  recorded  here;  but  he 
received  a  grant  here  as  late  as  l()66-7,  .Ian.  A  full  account  of  his  family 
and  descendants  is  given  in  the  (.Tiles  Memorial,  by  the  Rev.  .Tohn  Adams 
Vinton,  (j)]).  499-531).  Four  of  his  (.'hildren  married  children  of  .loseph 
Adams,  ancestoi-  of  the  Presidents  Adams.  He  d.  1694,  May  30.  Of  his  9 
ch.  two  were  b.  in  Billerica:  Samuel,  b.  1660,  July  28.  Christopher,  b. 
1663.  ••01.  25." 
WEBBER.  1.  Thomas,  m.  1803,  Dec.  1.  Eliza  Bacon.  Ch.  bap.: 
Eliza.  Ahniru.  Ann.  Sitsan  Bacon,  1811,  Oct. .24.  Eibridge,  1814,  June  12. 
Ann  m.  1830.  Nov.  4.  Heniy  C  .Johnson,  of  Mason. 
2.     Hiram,  and  wife  Fidelia.     Ch.   George  Edward,  h.  1827,  .Jan.  24. 
WELD,  Jabez  Hatch,  of  Plymouth,  N.H.,  m.  1793,  Jan.  21,  Patty 
Fletcher,  of  Chelmsford. 
WESSON,  Samuel,  and  wife  Sarah.  Ch.  baj).  :  Sarah.  1752.  Apiil  12. 
Jlari/.  1760.  Aug.  31.  John.  1762.  Aug.  22.  Joanna,  1764,  Sept.  16.  Phebe, 
1767.  Nov.  29. 
WETHERBEE.  1.  Timothy,  of  Pc^pperell.  m.  Lydia  Parker,  dau. 
of  Benjamin.   11. 
2.  David,  n).  Susanna  Hardv.  of  Concord,  dau.  of  Ebenezer.  2. 
3.  John.  Ch.  bap.:  John  Uradford.  1801,  ]March  8.  Rebecca,  1804. 
Jan.  1 ;  m.  1824.  Jan.  18,  William  McDonald,  George  Henri/,  1806,  March  2. 
(Gardner  Eaton.  1808,  March  20.  I*erhaps  Ann.  who  m.  1816,  Feb.,  William 
Whittemore. 
 - 544 - 
WHEELER— WHITING.  155 
WHEELER,  Beiijainin,  ni.  1794.  March  4,  Polly  Fitch. 
WHIPPLE.  .Alatthew  Whipple,  of  Ipswich,  in!  Jemima  Lane,  daii.  of 
Joh,  1,  and  liad  a  sou  Mitthevu  b.  1085.  Oct.  20.  wlio  inherited  one-fourth 
of  the  AVinthrop  farm  from  his  gi-andfather.  His  sliare  extended  from  the 
Two  Brothers  on  Concord  river  to  the  road  and  alon.i^  tlie  river,  including 
375  acres.  The  records  furnish  no  evidence  that  he  ever  occupied  this 
farm.     He  was  prob.  father  of 
John,  who  with  wife  Susanna,  had  children:  John.  b.  1722-3,  Jan.  5. 
Susanna,  b.  1726,  Aug'.  19. 
WHITE.  1.  John,  is  on  tax-list  1736;  m.  1741,  Sept.  23,  Mehitable 
French,  dau.  of  William.  6;  d.  1796,  April  11.  He  lived  east  of  Fox  hill. 
No"  children  recorded.  He  perhaps  had  DanieL  3,  and  Nancy.,  who  m.  1778, 
Aug.  2.  Josiah  Orne. 
2.  John,  "Eyq.,  formerly  of  Charlestown,"  d.  ISll,  Nov.  23,  aged  93. 
He  was  son  of  Isaac,  of  Boston,  as  appears  fj-om  the  following  inscription 
in  the  South  burying-ground  :  '"Mrs.  Rebecca  White,  widow  of  Mr.  Isaac 
White,  late  of  Boston.  AVhen  the  Britisli  Troops  took  possession  of  the 
town  of  Boston,  she  Aveut  to  her  son,  John  White.  Esq..  of  Charlestown, 
and  continued  in  his  family  till  she  died  in  Billerica  Sept.  17,  1782.  Age  94." 
He  lived  on  Woburn  street,  neai'  Dr.  Wilson's. 
3.  Daniel,  prob,  a  son  of  John,  1 ;  m.  1784,  Jan.  1.  Marv  Hunt,  of 
Acton.  Ch.  John,  b.  1785.  Feb.  24.  Salh/.h.  1786,  Dec.  24.  'PoUy,  bap. 
1789.  Oct.  25.     Daniel,  b.  1791,  Aug.  6. 
4.  Jfaucy,  m.  1742.  Dec.  19,  John  Brown. 
WHITFORD,  WiHiam,  son  of  AVilliam,  was  b.  in  Hillsboro',  N.  H., 
1799.  Oct.  5.     He  ni.  Sarah    .  and  1832,  May  13,  Mary  Stearns,  dau.  of 
John.   13.     Ch.  dlartha  Lucii.  b.  1826,  May  14;   m.  Charles  H.  Hill,  40. 
'  
William  Benjamin,  h.  1828,  Jan.  9.     Geon/e  Henry,  b.  1829,  July  24.     Edward 
Bacon,  b.  1831,  May  13.     John  Stearns,  h.  1833,  May  22.     Edward  Lorenzo 
b.  1836,  July  23.   ^  31ary  Eliza,  b.  1838.  April  18.     Francis  Owen,  b.  1843, 
April  21.     Addison  Bernard,  b.  1847,  April  29. 
WHITING.  1.  Rev.  Samuel,  the  first  pastor  of  Billerica,  was  the 
oldest  son  of  Rev.  Samuel  and  Elizabeth  TSt.  John)  Whiting,  and  born 
1633,  March  25,  in  Skirbeck,  very  near  Boston,  in  IJucolnshire.  England. 
His  father  came  to  America  in  1636.  and  became  the  pastor  of  Lynn.  >»oy.  8. 
He  d.  1679.  Dec.  11,  aged  82.  Our  Samuel  graduated  at  Harvard  ('ollege 
in  1653.  His  class  was  the  largest  graduated  befoi-e  1690,  and  included 
some  of  the  names  most  eminent  in  the  colony;  and  among  them  was 
Thonuis  Ci'osby,  elder  brother  of  Simon  so  long  his  parishioner  in  Billerica. 
The  subject  of  Mr.  AVliiting's  thesis  at  graduation  was  the  question,  ''An 
detur  Maximum  et  Mininuim  in  Naturay"  which  he  attirmed.  He  remained 
at  college  a  year  after  graduating,  and  the  fact  is  noted  as  ijeculiar  that  his 
quarter  bills  were  almost  always  paid  "by  silver."  He  was  admitted  a 
freenuui.  1656,  3Iay  11  ;  and  in  1658,  as  elsewhere  related,  he  came  to 
Billerica.  to  fill  a  large  and  honorable  place  in  the  history  of  the  town. 
On  his  settlement,  thetown  granted  Mr.  Whiting  "one  teune-acre  lott,  or 
single  share,"  with  all  town,  privileges.  His  house-lot  was  "twenty  acres 
*  lying  upon  the  Towneship,  on  the  South  side  of  it.  upon  part  of 
wiiich  his  house  now  staudeth.  It  is  bounded  by  George  Willice  on  the 
North,  the  brook  highway  on  the  East,  by  Chai'nstatte  lane  on  the^outh, 
by  John  Sternes'  feild  on  the  West  ;  also,  a  highway  passing  c'rosse  it 
against  the  pound,  being  four  pole  Mide."  This  highway  \Aas  and  is 
the  Concord  road,  and  Mr.  Whiting's  house  stood  north  of  Charnstatt'e 
lane  just  where  it  descends  to  the  brook,  in  the  field  now  owned  by  Miss 
Susan  Hill.  He  had  another  small  grant  near,  "one  acre,  more  or  less, 
lying  on  the  West  side  of  John  Sternes'  feild,  bounded  by  the  feild  on  the 
East  of  it,  by  the  River  West,  b}'  George  Willice  North,  by  George  ttarley 
South,  a  highway  on  it,"  etc.  This  highway  was  Charnstafie  ;  and  in 
1685  we  find  this  record  :  "Granted  uiore  to  him,  that  part  of  y«  highway 
called  Charnstafie   lane,    which   h'eth  Westward   of   y*  country  road  to 
 - 545 - 
15G  WHITING. 
Concord,  to  take  it  from  s''  country  road  untill  you  come  down  to  George 
fFarley's  land  that  lie  i)nr('liase(l  of  -Tohn  Stornes  (docoased)  ;  they  only 
reserving  the  [)iivil('dge  of  a  private  highway  toward  Concord  river." 
This  westward  extension  of  Charnstaffe,  beyond  the  point  where  the  road 
to  Bedford  turns  south  from  it,  is  still  a  private  lane.  Another  grant  on 
the  township  tout'hes  in  its  descri])tion  several  points  of  the  local  geog- 
raphy. "Granted  more  to  him.  one  parcell  of  bind  conteining  twelve 
acres,  more  or  lesse.  bounded  by  Jn"-  Sternes  on  tlie  South,  by  a  small 
skirt  of  land  W'^  he  had  of  the  towue  (for  highway  tlamage)  on  ve  towne- 
ship,  joyneing  to  his  farme  line;  bounded  on  the  East  by  .Tohn  Marshall, 
in  y**  old  Township  line;  and  ther  his  !S.  W.  corner  is  a  white  oake  standing 
on  the  East  side  of  y<=  ash  swamp.  w"=''  white  oake  is  the  N.  E.  corner  of 
Mr.  Dudlejf's  farme;  bounded  by  tlie  country  road  <m  the  West;  and  by 
land  (yet  Ij'ing  in  comon  to  y^  use  of  the  Towne)  reserved  for  the  ministry 
on  the  Xorth.""  This  description  compared  A\ith  the  corresponding  grant 
to  Stearns  (sec  under  Stearns,  John,  1)  proves  that  the  north-east  corner 
of  the  Dudley  farm  and  the  south-east  corner  of  the  township  were  at  the 
same  point,  on  the  east  side  of  Ash  SManip,  where  Charnstaflte  lane  and 
Tufts  lane  extended,  would  meet.  Mr.  Whiting  received  twenty-three 
grants  in  all  the  various  parts  of  the  town,  and  different  divisions,  amount- 
ing to  more  than  200  acres.  He  was  one  of  the  seventeen  ministers  who 
boi-e  testimonjr  against  the  settlement  of  Rev.  John  Davenport  over  the 
First  Church,  in  Boston  ;  and  he  preached  the  Artillery  Election  sermon 
in  1682.  But  he  i)ublished  nothing.  Ills  descendant,  Kev.  Moses  G. 
Thomas,  formerly  of  Concord.  N.ll..  had  a  volume  of  his  MS.  sermons, 
but  it  shared  in  the  dispersion  of  his  library,  in  Missouri,  some  years  since, 
and  no  clue  to  its  i)lace  of  concealment  lias  l)een  found.  A  similar  fate 
seems  to  have  befallen  afolio  IMS.  mentioned  by  Fanner  as  in  his  posses- 
sion, containing  notes  of  his  sermons  bj^  Jonathan  Danforth.  He  m.  1656, 
Nov.  12.  Dorcas,  dau.  of  Leonard  Chester,  and  b.  in  Wethersfield,  Conn., 
1637.  Nov.  1.  Her  father  was  a  nephew  of  Rev.  Thomas  Hooker,  d.d.  He 
lived  a  year  or  two  in  Watertown,  and  assisted  in  exploring  the  Connecticut 
vallejr  and  selecting  the  locations  there,  when  Dr.  Hooker  and  his  company 
removed  from  Newtown  to  Hartford.  He  d.  1648.  Dec.  11,  and  his  widow 
Mary  m.  Hon.  Richard  Russell,  one  of  the  foremost  citizens  of  Charles- 
town.  She  d.  a  wido\\'.  1(!88.  Xov.  30,  aged  80.  The  happy  union  of  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  \Vhiting  continued  56  vears,  and  thev  were  separated  l)v  death 
only  13  days.  She  d.  1712-13,  Feb.  15.  and  he'd.  Feb.  28.  Ch.  Elizabeth, 
b.  1660.  Nov.  6;  m.  1702,  Oct.  14.  ''Mr.  Thomas  Clerk"  (Rev.  Thomas 
Clark)  pastor  of  the  church  in  C-helmsford  from  1678  to  his  death,  1704, 
Dec.  7.  She  had  one  dau.,  Abigail,  b.  after  her  husband's  death,  who  m. 
Samuel  Green.  Among  her  descendants  are  President-  Porter  of  Yale 
College,  and  (Jeorge  B.  ahd  Charles  E.  Butler,  eminent  lawyers  of  New 
York.  Saiiiueh  2,  1).  1662-3,  Jan.  19.  John.  b.  1604.  Aug.  1;  graduated 
H.  C.  1685;  ordained  pastor  of  the  church  in  Lancaster,  1691,  Dec.  3;  and 
wastliere  killed  ]>y  the  Indians  1697,  Sept.  11.  leaving  two  young  daughters, 
who  died  the  same  year.     Oliver,  3,  b.  1665,  Nov.  8.     3Iar>j,  b.  1()67.  May  28: 
m.      Burchstead.  of  Lvnn,  and  d.  at  Lexington  1740,  Nov.  13.     DorUInj, 
b.  1668.  Sept.  23.  and  d.  1740.  Jan.  31.  Joseph,  b.  1669-70,  Feb.  7;  grad. 
H.  C.fl690;  d.  1701,  Sept.  0.  James,  b.  1671.  Aug.  20,  and  d.  Sept.  1. 
Uiiis.  b.  1672,  Sept.  6,  and  d.  Sept.  20.  Benjamin,  b.  1675.  Sept.  26,  in 
Charlestown,  and  d.  Oct.  18.     Benjamin,  h.  1682,  Xov.  5,  and  d.  Nov.  20. 
2.  Samuel,  son  of  Rev..  Samuel,  1,  1).  1662-3,  Jan.  19.  John  Whiting, 
esq.,  uiayor  of  Boston,  in  England,  antl  l)rother  of  Rev.  Sanniel  AVhiting, 
of  Lynn,  advanced  £50  in  aid  of  the  Massachusetts  colony.  In  retui'n.  the 
General  Court  granted  him  500  acres  of  land,  which  he  transferred  to  his 
Ameiican  ))rother.  A\ho  gave  it  to  his  son,  the  Billerica  pastor.  The  grant 
was  located  on  Salmon  l)rook.  in  Dunstable,  and  passed  into  the  possession 
of  Sanmel  Whiting,  jr..  who  became  one  of  the  first  settlers  of  Dunstable, 
and  a  leading  man  in  that  town.     He  was  taken  a  ])risoner  bv  the  Indians, 
 - 546 - 
WHITING.  157 
in  1704,  and  carried  to  Canada,  but  escaped;  and  in  171.'}  received  £10 
from  the  colony  for  liis  wounds  and  suft'erings.  His  house  was  a  garrison 
in  1710.  He  d.  1714-5,  Marcli  8,  and  is  buried  in  Billerica.  His  wife's 
name  was  Elizabeth.  She  ni.  2d,  William  Patten,  5.  Ch.  Samuel,  b.  1687, 
Oct.  22;  was  in  Loveweirs  fated  expedition  in  172.5.  He  received  his 
fatlier's  farm  in  Dunstable;  was  living  there  in  1747.  and  prob.  d.  thei-e. 
He  had  a  son  Joseph,  town  clerk  in  Dunstable.  1774,  who  had  10  children  ; 
perhaps  James,  of  HoUis,  and  others.  Elizabeth,  l)orn  1689;  m.  Rev. 
Samuel  Euggles.  2.  Catherine,  b.  1691;  m.  John  Lane.  2.  Leonard,  b. 
1693.  Aug.  12.  Joseph,  b.  1695,  Dec.  14.  [These  two  sons  were  ''out  of 
the  province"  in  1718  when  their  father's  estate  was  settled.]  Mary,  b. 
1702.  Dorcas,  b.  1703;  m.  Rev.  Benjamin  Ruggles,  Y.  C,  1721.  i>astor  of 
Middleboro'  and  of  New  Marlboro'  from  1754  to  his  deatli,  1782.  He  was 
brother  of  Rev.  Samuel  Ruggles.  John,  b.  1706,  March  11,  and  d.  before 
1718. 
3.  Oliver,  son  of  Rev.  Saumel,  1,  b.  1665,  Nov.  8;  m.  1689-90, 
Jan.  22,  Anna  Danfojth,  dau.  of  Jonathan,  1.  He  was  a  representative, 
town  clerk,  selectman,  and  justice  of  the  peace  :  an  active  and  useful 
citizen.  He  d.  173(5.  Dec.  22;  his  widow  d.  1737.  Aug.  13.  Ch.  Oliver,  4, 
b.  1691.  March  29.  Dorcas,  b.  1692-3,  March  21  ;  m.  Dea.  Joshua  Abbot,  1. 
3Iart;.  b.  1695,  Mav  4.  John.  b.  1697.  Nov.  11,  and  d.  Dec.  17.  John.  5,  b. 
1699.  Oct.  14.  Samuel,  6,  b.  1702.  Sept.  6.  ^»u«.  b.  1705,  April  15;  m. 
William  Stickney,  2.  Eleazer,  b.  1707,  July  25.  Benjamin.  7,  b.  1711-2, 
Feb.  12. 
4.  Oliver,  son  of  Oliver.  3,  b.  1691.  March  29;  m.  1721.  March  28, 
Elizabeth  Brown,  dau.  of  George.  3.     She  d.  1732,  Aug.  6,  and  he  m.  1735, 
June  4,  Mary    .     Ch.   Sarnh.  b.   1721,   Oct.   6.     Jonathan.   8,    b.   1723, 
Aug.  1.  Elizabeth,  b.  1725.  May  4;  m.  1760,  Jan.  8.  Ebenezer  Jaquith,  of 
Wilmington.  Joseph,  b.  1727,  .June  16.  William,  b.  1729,  July  4.  Olive,  b. 
1732.  Julv  28;   m.  Jonathan  Pollard.  7.     Marij,  b.  1736.  Julv  7. 
5.  John,  son  of  Oliver,  3,  b.  1699,  Oct.  14;  m.  1726-7,  March  9, 
Sarah  Hunt,  dau.  of  Thomas,  5.     She  d.  1745,  Nov.  17,  and  he  m.  Anne 
  .     He  lived  in  Tewksbury.     Ch.  John,  9,  b.  1727-8,  Jan.  7.     Sarah,  b. 
1730,  Aug.  5.  and  d.  Aug.  6.  Sarah,  b.  1731.  Dec.  21.  Leonard,  b.  1734. 
March  27.  He  was  in  the  French  and  Indian  war;  was  taken  prisoner  and 
compelled  to  run  the  gauntlet,  escaping  with  only  his  life  and  a  shirt- 
sleeve. At  the  surrender  of  Quebec,  in  1759.  lie  was  in  connnand  of  a 
company.  When  the  Revolution  came,  he  was  charged  with  lovalty  to  the 
crown,  and  became  very  obnoxious  to  the  patriots  of  HoUis.  where  he  then 
resided;  but  lie  held  his  ground  and  remained  there  until  1798.  He  m. 
1761,  April  23,  Annie,  dau.  of  Rev.  Willard  Hall,  of  Westford.  and  lived 
there  and  in  Littleton,  a  merchant  and  inn-keeper,  until  1772.  His  wife  d. 
1801,  Sept.  15.  and  he  m.  2d.  ]\[rs.  Lydia  Parker  (numl)er  615  of  the 
Spalding  Memorial)  of  Cavendish.  Vt..  and  d.  in  that  town  1811,  July  19. 
The  Histortj  of  HoUis  records  his  ch.,  of  whom  Ann  m.  Dr.  Oliver  Prescott, 
H.  C,  1783;  Leonard  lived  in  HoUis;  Abigail  m.  Dr.  Amos  Bancroft,  of 
Westford,  H.C.,  1791,  whose  dau.  Abigail  Whiting  m.  Rev.  Ephraim  Abbot, 
H.  C,  1806,  author  of  the  Abbot  Family,  and  his  dau.  Lucy  M.  B.  m.  Col. 
George  Thacher,  H.  C,  1812;  and  Stephen  Hall,  who  lived  in  Groton,  in 
Coos  county,  N.  H..  and  in  Whitehall.  N.  Y.  Oliver,  b.  1736.  July  11. 
Dorcas,  b.  1739,  July  14.  Benjamin,  b.  1741,  Feb.  15;  m.  Grace  Hall,  sister 
of  his  brother's  wife,  and  lived  in  Hollis.  He  was  a  friend  and  partisan  of 
Governor  Wentwortli  of  New  Hampshire,  and  was  appointed  l)y  him  the 
first  sherift"  of  Hillsborough  county,  in  1774.  He  had  previously  been 
active  on  the  Connecticut  river  as  dejiut}^  marshal,  justice  of  the  peace, 
and  surveyor  of  the  king's  woods.  (See  Hall's  Eastern  Vermont,  pp. 
146-154.)  His  property  was  confiscated  and  he  fled  the  country  during  the 
Revolution.  His  wifein.  in  1782,  implying  that  his  deatli  hail  taken  place. 
(For  farther  notice  of  these  loyalist  "bro'thers.  see  History  of  Hollis.  pp. 
167-S.)    ^Ir.  Whiting's  eldest  dau.,  Frances  Wentworth,  m.     Shepard, 
 - 547 - 
158  "  WHITING. 
and  2d,  Asahel  Stearns,  H.  C,  17!)7,  and  professor  of  law.  H.  C,  1817-29. 
His  son,  William  G.  Stearns,  II.  C,  1824,  was  for  many  years  steward"  of 
the  colle<»e. 
G.  Srtimicl,  son  of  Oliver.  3,  b.  1702,  Sept.  0;  m.  1729,  May  8, 
Deborah  Hill,  dau.  of  Samuel,  6.  She  d.  1745.  Sept.  .5,  and  he  m.  1749, 
Nov.  2.  ^[rs.  Elizabeth  Winchester.  Deacon  Whiting  d.  1772,  Nov.  4. 
Ch.  Samuel.  10,  b.  1730,  May  18.  Timothy,  11,  b.  1731-2.  Feb.  13. 
Deborah,  b.  1733,  Dec.  8,  and  d.  1749.  Sept.  1.5.  Anna,  b.  1736,  March  29; 
m.  Hezekiah  Crosby.  21.  ^Martha,  b.  1738,  June  14.  and  d.  1742.  April  29. 
Benjamin,  b.  1740.  July  3,  and  d.  July  30.  Achsah.  b.  1741.  Aug.  4;  m. 
John  Phi«lps.  of  Lancaster.  Zilpah,  h.  1743,  Sept.  8.  David,  h.  1745, 
Aug.  7,  and  d.  Aug.  24. 
"7.  Bonjaiiiiu',  sou  of  Oliver.  3,  b.  1711-2.  Feb.  12;  m.  Dorothy 
Crosby,  dan.  of  Nathan.  4,  and  d.  1737-8.  Feb.  14.  Ch.  Dorothy,  b.  1737, 
Nov.  i7. 
8.  Jonathan,  son  of  Oliver.  4,  b.  1723,  Aug.  1 ;  m.  1749,  Dec.  14, 
Rebecca  Danfoith.  dau.  of  Jacob.  7.  His  nane  disappears  from  tax-list  in 
1761.  and  he  was  in  Bedford,  1768.  Ch.  Jonathan,  b.  1750,  Sept.  13.  David, 
b.  1751,  Dec.  30.  William,  b.  1753,  Nov.  28.  Rebecca,  b.  1755,  Oct.  22. 
Oliver,  l)ai).  17.58.  Sept.  17.  Patte,  bap.  1700.  June  0.  Jacob,  b.  1762. 
June  1.     Ziha.  b.  1764.  May  25. 
9.  John,  son  of  John,  5,  b.  1727-8.  Jan.  7;  m.  1758.  July  25.  Lucy 
Farmer,  dau.  of  Andrew.  8,  who  d.  1768.  Feb.  4;  and  his  name  disappears 
from  tax-list  the  same  year.  Ch.  John.  b.  1759.  Jan.  25.  Lnr>/.  b.  1759, 
Dec.  23.  J(>!<hna,  b.  1760,  Dec.  29.  Oliver,  b.  1762.  Jan.  2S ;  m.  1793, 
May  2.  Hannah  Marshall,  dau.  of  Isaac,  7.  Sarah,  b.  1763.  March  26. 
Isaac.  13,  b.  1764.  May  26.  Abirjail,  b.  1766.  Feb.  20.  and  d.  1768,  March  4. 
Elizalteth.  b.  1767.  Aug.  5.  and  d.  1768.  Jan.  4. 
10.  Samuel,  soii  of  Dea.  Samuel.  6,  b.  1730.  May  18;  in.  Sarah 
Stevens.  He  died  1769.  Nov.  18.  and  she  married  .Jonathan  Hill.  15. 
Ch.  Samuel.  12,  b.  17.58.  Dec.  12.  Sarah,  b.  1760.  Aug.  20;  m.  Abial 
Foster.  12.  Martha,  b.  1762,  July  3;  m.  1782,  Nov.  28,  John  Al)bot,  of 
Ashburnham.     Caleb,  b.  1765,  March  9. 
11.  Timothy,  son  of  Dea.  Samuel.  (J,  b.  1731-2,  Feb.  13;  m.  Sarah 
Osgood.  His  namt^  is  on  the  tax-list.  1765-75.  Before  and  after,  he  lived 
in  Lancaster  ;  d.  there  1799,  July  12.  He  served  in  the  French  war  in  17.55. 
and  with  two  sons  was  engaged  at  Concord  and  Lexington.  Ch.  Timothy, 
b.  17.58.  June  17 ;  captain  In  the  Revolution;  lived  in  Lancaster;  in.  1781. 
Aug.  21.  Abigail  Kidder,  dau.  of  Samuel,  11 ;  had  10  ch.  ;  d.  1826.  .Jan.  13. 
John,  b.  1760,  Feb.  24.  His  son.  Gen.  Henry  ^Vhiting,  published  a  volume, 
BevoliUionary  Orders  of  General  Washington,  consisting  of  selections  from 
papers  preserved  by  Gen.  John  Whiting,  while  acting  as  adjutant  of  the 
second  regiment  of  the  Massachusetts  line.  He  had  preserved  most  or  all 
of  the  orders  which  it  was  his  duty  to  record,  and  from  these  the  volume  is 
made  up.  He  belonged  to  the  company  of  minute-men  in  Billerica.  1775, 
and  with  his  father  and  brother  shared  in  the  running  fight,  as  the  British 
retreated  from  Concord.  He  joined  the  army  at  Cambridge:  was  under 
Arnold  on  Lake  Chaiuplainin  1776  :  and  with  Gates  through  1777.  receiving 
a  commission  that  year.  The  remainder  of  the  war  he  was  with  the  main 
armv,  until  Washington  went  to  the  command  in  Vii-ginia.  His  record 
after  is  thus  stated:  "  Lieutenant-Colonel  4  Infantry.  8  July.  1808;  Adju- 
tant and  Inspector  of  the  Army.  17  July.  1809;  Colonel  5  Infantry.  31  Dec. 
1809;  died  3  Sept..  1810.  at  Washington.''  Of  his  8  children.  Henry  was  a 
good  s(ddier  and  officer,  breveted  Brigadier-General  -"for  gaUant  and 
meritorious  comluct  in  the  l)attle  of  Buena  Vista."  and  was  (Quartermaster- 
General  when  he  d.  at  St.  Louis,  1851.  Sept.  16.  Fabius  was  Major.  U.S.A.  ; 
and  Caroline  Lee.  h.  1800,  m.  Prof.  N.  M.  Hentz.  at  Northampton,  and  was 
an  authoress   of  much  note  and  esteem.     She  d.   in   Florida,    1856.     A 
 - 548 - 
WHITINC;.                                     15  9 
complete  list  of  her  works,  beginning  witli  the  "Planter's  Northern  Bride." 
and  22  in  number,  niav  be  found  in  the  Whiting  Memoir.  Christopher,  b. 
17G1.  Nov.  25;  d.  1770.  Nov.  10,  '-at  Ticondiroga,  in  the  service  of  his 
conntrv."  3/an/,  b.  17(i>«.  Feb.  11;  d.  177."),  April  10.  Rebecca,  b.  1770, 
Feb.  17. 
''Z^^ 
w 
^^^^^-rT^^€^^^ 
12.  Samuel,  son  of  Samuel.  10,  b.  1758.  Dec.  12.  Of  this  good  man 
we  give  a  portrait  believed  by  his  grandson.  Dr.  John  8.  AVhiting.  who  has 
kindly  furnished  it,  to  be  a  very  good  one.  Di-.  Whiting  alsi)  contributes 
this  sketch,  wliich  affords  so  pleasant  a  picture  of  Deacon  ^V  biting  and  his 
times,  that  it  must  be  given  nearly  in  full.  He  says:  "In  IS-IO  T  went  to 
school  in  Blllerica  and  lived  with  my  grandfather.  *  He  Mas  then  82 
years  old,  somewhat  intirin.  but  able  to  attend  to  his  usual  roinid  of  duties. 
He  went  to  church  regularly  tAvice  a  Sunday,  loeking  up  tlie  liouse.  and 
taking  his  whole  family  with  him  ;  he  riding  with  one  of  his  daughters  in 
his  'one-hoss  sliay';   tiie  others  walking  after  with  me  and  the  foot-stoves. 
 - 549 - 
1(50  WHITING. 
It  was  in  that  Avinter,  I  think,  that  he  resigned  his  deaconship.  After 
coiniiiuniou,  Avhon  this  fact  was  announced,  Mr.  Preston  moved  that  the 
church  give  liiin  a  vote  of  tlianks  for  his  40  jears  of  dutj\  during  whicli 
time  lieliad  not  been  absent  a  single  service;  Avliicli  motion,  in  a  few 
apijrcciative  remarlcs.  my  graiidfatlier  deprecated  as  unusual  and  improper, 
Avhercupon  it  Avas  Avithdrawn.  In  1776  he  A\as  drafted  into  the  army  and 
served  about  eight  months  as  a  priA'ate  and  sergeant,  acting  as  clerk  of 
his  company,  lie  Avas  at  the  battle  of  8tilh\'ater  and  at  the  taking  Of 
Burooyne.  I  delight  in  recalling  his  narrative  of  incidents  of  the  cam]>aign 
as  th'aAvn  from  him  by  the  questions  of  neighbors  and  friends,  some  of 
Avhoui  sat  around  his  Avalnut  fire  nearly  every  Avinter  evening.  I  Avell 
remember  a  boyish  question  of  mine:  'Grandfather,  did  you  ever  shoot 
a  red-coat  V"  and  the  A'ery  solemn  answer,  Avhich  1  did  not  then  understand  : 
• I  hope  not.'  Also,  I  recall  hoAv  Avith  moistened  eye  he  told  of  taking 
deliberate  aim  and  tiring  at  that  famous  scout,  Harvey  Birch;  the  hero 
of  Cooper's  'Spy/  hut  happily  Avithout  effect.  Hoav  he  numaged  to  get 
an  education.  I  neA'ei"  kncAV,  but  he  Avas  Avell  versed  in  mathematical 
science.  —  I  knew  of  his  calculating  eclipses.  —  and  became  Mr.  Pemberton's 
assistant  at  his  academy  as  instructor  in  the  English  branches.  One  of  his 
jjupils,  Hon.  Thomas  (i.  Carj%  spoke  of  him  at  the  Bi-('entennial,  in  1855, 
as  'that  brave  old  soldier  of  the  Revolution  and  servant  of  God,  Deacon 
■\Vhiting,  Avho  hnd  practised  the  hand-Avriting  Avhich  he  taught  us.  in 
makiuii"  out  rolls  and  i-eturns  Avith  benumbed  fingers  on  the  drum-head.' 
Like  ifis  ancestor,  Jonathan  Danforth.  he  became  a  surveyor,  and  niauj^ 
of  his  plans  of  Billerica  farms  are  noAV  preserved  among  the  records 
at  East  Cambridge.  1  have  in  my  possession  a  barometer,  marked  as 
"  made  by  W.  &  W.  Jones,  ]^o.  35,  Ho'lbron,  London,'  Avhich  hung  beside  the 
tall  clock  in  the  family  room  for  1  don't  know  hoAV  many  years  ))efore  my 
time.  1  doul)t  if  there  are  many  older  in  the  country  still  in  "going  order.' 
There  was  also  an  improvised  sun-dial  upon  the  AvindoAV-sill  arranged 
scientifically  so  as  to  indicate  12  o'clock  u.  at  any  season  of  the  j-ear. 
Fo;-  him  I  had  and  have  the  greatest  veneration  as  a  thoroughly  good 
man,  living  a  simple  and  blameless  life,  and  doing  kindness  Avliere\^er 
it  was  in  his  poAver.  Xot  less  do  I  revere  the  sainted  name  of  his  eldest 
daughter,  my  aunt  Harriet,  then  a  maiden  lady  of  fifty-one,  and  the  good 
aiigel,  it  seemed  to  me.  of  the  Avhole  town.  Were  any  seriously  ill.  she  Avas 
always  readv  and  first  called  to  'Avatch'  Avith  them  and  furnish  those 
.ittle  comforts  and  delicacies  which  sick  people  are  supposed  to  require  ; 
and  if  any  died,  it  Avas  she  Avho  Avas  expected  to  prepare  tenderly  the 
remains  for  the  last  solemn  rites. 
The  actual  money  paid  for  living  by  a  family  of  such  few  Avants  and 
simple  tastes  as  my  grandfather's  could  have  been  little  compared  Avith 
Avhat  are  noAV  con'sidered  necessary  expenses.  Flour,  coffee,  tea,  taxes, 
church-rates,  and  clothing,  I  believe,  Avere  the  chief  items  which  Avere  paid 
for  in  money.  1  do  not  recall  any  visits  to  dress-makers  or  tailors, 
and  nmch  of"  the  bedding  was  of  home  manufacture,  made,  perhaps, 
in  the  house  a  half  century  before.  The  table  was  largely  supplied  from 
the  farm.  A  hog  Avas  killed  in  the  fall  and  prepared  for  present  and  future 
use;  a  calf  m  the  spring,  and  foAvl  and  turkeys,  as  occasion  required, 
AAhich,  with  nnik  and  eggs,  furnished  the  animal  food,  Avhile  the  common 
veoetables,  AA'ith  Indian  and  rye  meal,  cranberries,  barberries,  shagbarks, 
apples,  and  a  fCAV  other  fruits,  supplied  a  sulficient  variety  to  make  the 
changes  of  one's  daily  food  conducive  to  good  health.  In  my  time  at 
Billerica  there  Avas  no  settled  clergyman,  the  pulpit  being  supplied  every 
►Sunday  by  candidates,  Avho  ahA'ays,  as  I  recollect,  dined  at  my  grand- 
fatlier's,  invariably  on  baked  beans,  baked  potatoes,  brown  bread,  suet 
pudding,  and  apples,  Avhich  I  Avas  led  to  believe,  by  the  praises  jiut  upon  it 
by  the  polite  clergymen,  Avas  a  repast  worthy  of  a  king.  But  I  have 
rambled  enough.      Of  my    grandfather's  personal   appearance   I  cannot 
 - 550 - 
WHITING --WHITMAN.  161 
speak  very  definitly.  He  was  of  medium  stature,  of  a  venerable  aspect, 
with  white  hair  worn  in  a  cue  tied  up  in  a  l^laek  sillc  rlbl)on,  not  an  eel- 
skin."  Deacon  AVhiting  lived  south  of  Charnstaffe  lane,  west  of  the  brook, 
and  opposite  the  place  of  his  ancestor,  the  iirst  Billerica  pastor.  He  m. 
1789,  Jan.  22,  Rachel  Rogers,  dau.  of  Samuel,  10.  She  d.  1836,  June 
28,  and  he  d.  1813,  Feb.  28.  Ch.  Harriet,  b.  178!).  Oct.  20.  Anna  and 
Catherine,  b.  1792.  Oct.  13.  Anna  m.  Henry  Baldwin.  22.  Catherine  d. 
1816,  Jan.  IS.  Augustus.  14,  b.  1795,  March  2.  Mary  Ann,  b,  1801, 
May  25;   m.  George  P.  Elliott. 
13.  Isaac,  son  of  John.  9,  b.  1764:,  May  26;  m.  Mary,  dau.  of  Benja- 
min Easte.  She  d.  1850,  March  3,  and  he  d.  1850,  Dec.  21.  No  record  of 
children. 
14:.  Augustus,  son  of  Dea.  Samuel,  12,  b.  1795.  March  2;  grad.  H.  C, 
1816;  took  the  degree  of  M.D..  1820.  and  practised  liis  profession  in 
Charlestown;  m.  1822,  May  30,  Catherine  Walker.  She  d.  1861.  June  6, 
aged  65.  and  he  d.  1867,  May  4.  Ch.  George  Augustus,  b.  1823.  March  20 ; 
m.  Lucy  J.  Austin.  James  Henry,  b.  1824,  Nov.  25;  d.  1856.  April. 
William,  16,  b.  1826,  Sept.  13.  John  Samuel,  b.  1828,  Oct.  6;  H.C..  1850. 
and  is  a  physician  in  Charlestown;  m.  Lucy  L.  Barker,  and  has  children: 
Eleanor  Fellon,  b.  1865,  Feb.  1.  Caroline  Barker,  b.  1866,  Oct.  15.  Jasper, 
b.  1868,  June  15.  Catherine  Augusta,  b.  1831.  .Tune  26;  m.  David  G.  Lang, 
of  Concord.  Henry,  b.  1834,  Oct.  10 ;  d.  1839.  Ellen  Louisa,  b.  1836, 
Dec.  25;  m.  Francis  B.  Austin.  Elizabeth  Wheeler,  b.  1839,  Jan.  24;  d. 
1840.     Francis  Henry,  b.  1842,  April  2  ;   d.  1842. 
15.  Eldad,  m.  1795,  May  24.  Abigail  Jaquith.  dau.  of  Ebenezer.  3. 
16.  William,  son  of  Augustus,  14,  b.  1826,  Sept.  13;  m.  1852, 
Dec.  30,  Ann  S.  Brown,  of  Bradford.  His  children  were  born  in  Merrimac, 
Mass.,  but  he  now  lives  on  Beilford  street  in  Billerica.  Ch.  Augustus  H, 
b.  1854,  March  26.  Millard  W.,  b.  1857.  Jan.  28;  d.  1878,  May  4.  Wilfred 
E.,  b.  1863.  Aug.  20;   d.  1865,  Sept.  26.     Anna  L.,  b.  1867,  Aug.  22. 
WHITMAN.  1.  Rev.  Natlianiel,  was  one  of  fourteen  ch.  of  Dea. 
John  Whitman,  of  East  Bridgewater,  where  he  was  b.  1785,  Dec.  25.  His 
gr.-father  was  also  John  and  gr.-gr.-son  of  John,  of  Weymouth,  1638.  He 
grad.  H.  C  1809;  studied  theology  at  Cambridge;  was  tutor  in  Bowdoin 
College,  1811-12.  from  which  he  received  the  honorary  degree  of  A.M., 
1815  ;  received  a  unanimous  call  to  settle  in  Billerica,  as  the  colleague  of 
the  venerable  Dr.  Cumings,  and  was  ordained,  1814,  Jan.  26,  on  the 
50th  anniversary  of  Dr.  Cumings*  ordination.  He  was  dismissed,  1835, 
April  26,  having  been  sole  pastor  12  years.  He  published  a  Thanksgiving 
Discourse,  1829.  He  was  installed  at  Wilton.  N.  H.,  1836,  Oct.  5,  and  after 
a  successful  pastorate,  was  dismissed,  1841.  Oct.  He  was  then  in  cliarge  of 
a  society  in  Calais,  Me.,  until  1844.  May,  and  1844.  July,  he  was  installed 
in  his  native  town,  where  he  remained  until  1852.  Oct.  1.  He  then  removed 
to  Deerfleld,  which  was  his  home  until  his  death,  1869,  Oct.  29.  Mr.  Whit- 
man m.  1814.  Maj^  18.  Sarah  Holman.  dau.  of  Gen.  Silas  Hohnan,  of  Bolton. 
She  d.  in  Wilton,  1841,  Mav.  and  he  m.  1842.  Abbv,  dau.  of  Dea.  Amory 
Pollard,  of  Bolton.  Ch.  Sarah  Elizabeth,  b.  1815,  June  6;  d.  1816,  Feb.  16. 
Henry  Cumings,  b.  1817.  Jan.  6 ;  a  student  at  Philips  Academy,  Exeter.  N.H., 
and  entered  Bowdoin  College,  but  did  not  grad.  ;  studied  law  in  Fitchburg, 
and  settled  in  Lancaster,  Ohio,  and  in  1860  removed  to  Cincinnati,  where 
he  now  lives;  has  been  in  the  Legislature  and  Judge  of  the  Supreme 
('ourt.  He  m.  Elizabeth  King,  from  Wilton,  and  had  two  sons,  Henry 
Medill  and  Channing  AYood,  who  both  grad.  H.C..  1868.  Henrj-  M.  d.  in 
1869,  and  his  brother  is  now  consul  at  Huddersfield,  Eng.  Elizabeth 
Holman,  b.  1819,  Feb.  23;  m.  Rev.  Henry  Emmons,  of  Meadville,  Penn., 
and  Vernon,  N.  Y.  They  had  8  ch.  George  Nathaniel,  b.  1821,  June  8;  m. 
Elenor  Holbrook,  and  had  one  son.  He  is  now  a  lawj^er  in  California. 
Frances  Louisa,  b.  1823.  April  18;  m.  Stillman  Boies,  who  d.  in  1853.  One 
dau.  living.  John,  b.  1825,  Feb.  11 ;  is  a  clerk  for  Hogg,  Brown  &  Tajlor, 
Boston;   has  no  ch.     James  Thompson,  b.  1830.  July  24;    was  a  seaman  and 
 - 551 - 
162  WHITMAN  —  WILLICE. 
ship  commander;    m.  Mary  Greenlaw,  of  Maine;    had  2  ch..  and  d,  in 
Mobile,  1865,  Nov.  24.     Martha  IMman.  b.  18;W.  July  30;   d.  1855. 
2.  George,  son  of  Ecnjiimin.  was  b.  in  Boston.  1808,  Feb.  10.  His 
father  giad.  B.U..  1788.  and  practised  law.  The  son  grad.  II. C.  1827; 
studied  law  with  his  father  and  practised  his  profession  in  Boston  until 
1849,  when  he  removed  to  Billerica.  He  m.  1889,  April  27,  Mrs.  Hannah, 
widow  of  Dr.  Walter  P.  B.  Judson.  and  dau.  of    Thompson,  of  Wil- 
mington.    Slie  
d.  1878,  Sei)t.  13.     Ch.  Susan. 
"VVHITMORE,  Thomas,  was  appointed  to  ''run  the  line"  with  Cam- 
bridge, in  
1705.  March  27.  How  long  he  lived  in  Billerica  does  not  appear. 
He  was  son  of  Francis,  of  Cambridge,  b.  1G73  ;  m.  Mary  Waters,  of 
Woburn,  and  d.  in  Killingly,  Conn.  Eight  ch.  are  named  in  the  History  of 
Lexiiit/ton. 
WHITTAKEK,  John,  [Whitaksir,]  and  wife  Elizabeth,  came  from 
Watertown.  In  Oct.,  1G77,  a  trial  in  which  they  were  witnesses  gives  their 
ages  30  and  35;  and  they  have  ch.  :  Elizabeth,  aged  16,  and  John.,  aged  14, 
'•a  very  lying  boy."  Frobablj^  thev  had  other  ch.,  and  Daniel,  b.  1679, 
MavlO.     '     '  '       .
'WILKINS.  Timothy,  of  Middletown.  bought,  in  1739,  a  farm  of  112 
acres,  a  i)ai-t  of  the  Blood's  farms,  and  boimded  north  by  Billerica  line. 
He  was  father  of  Timothy,  who  had  sons  William,  1,  and  Isaac,  2,  who 
ra.  Margaret  Munroe;   and  prob.  of  Anna,  who  m.  Jonathan  Durrent.  11. 
1.  William,  m.d..  son  of  Timothy,  b.  1765.  April  1 ;  m.  1789.  May  10. 
Frances,  dau.  of  llev.  Henry  Cumings.  He  removed  to  Marblehead  in 
1807.  and  d.  1811.  May  7.  Ch.  Franre't,,  b.  1790.  Feb.  18.  Frances,  b.  1791, 
March  4;  m.  Isaac,  son  of  Amos  Warren,  of  West  Cambridge,  and  d.  in 
St.  Thomas.  1827.  Jan.  28.  They  had  ch.  :  1.  Harriet  Ann,  m.  Kussell 
Smith  and  George  M.  Chahvell.  2.  William  Wilkins.  b.  1814.  April  11.  who 
m.  Rebecca  Bennett  (see  Joshua,  4).  3.  Frances  Eliza,  m.  1835,  Oct.  6, 
William  Sehouler,  the  distinguished  Adjutant-General  of  Massachusetts 
during  the  war.  4.  Sarah  J.,  m.  1842,  Aug.  17,  Oliver  W.  Blake,  who  d. 
1848,  Oct.  12.  and  she  m.  Henry  Hart.  Henrietta,  b.  1793,  Feb.  18;  m.  1827, 
Feb.  3,  James  Cheever.  of  Andover.  Ann,  b.  1795,  July  8;  d.  1880, 
Oct.  17.  lF(7//aj)i.  b.  1797,  July  4;  d.  in  Louisville,  Ky.  Henr;/  Cnminr/s. 
b.  1799,  Nov.  1 ;  ui.,  and  d.  in  the  West.  Sklnei/  Lambert,  b.  1803,  June  22, 
and   d.    West.     Anf/ustns  Farwell.  h.  1S07,  ^Lavch  21;   d.  1850,  April  5. 
2.  Isaac,  brother  of  William,  was  also  a  physician,  in  Brownsville. 
Me.  He  m.  1793.  April  23,  Sally  Edwards.  Ch.  George,  bap.  1796.  Jan.  17. 
Isaac,  bap.  1798.  April  1. 
WILKINSON,  Thomas,  received  notice,  1676,  Aug.  3.  that  he  was  not 
accepted  as  inliabitaut;  and  Savage  says  he  was  complained  of  for  practis- 
ing medicine  contrary  to  law.  He  was  a  swine-herd,  and  is  named  on  the 
tything-inen's  lists  in  1679,  but  soon  disappeared.  Farmer  says  that  Ann 
Wilkinson  d.  in  Billerica,  1692,  Feb.  8,  aged  94.  1  do  not  find  his  authority 
for  this  statement. 
WILLIAMS,  Job,  m.  1732,  Sept.  11,  Dorothy  Rogers,  dau.  of  Daniel.  4. 
Ch.  Job.  b.  1733-4.  Feb.  8. 
WILLICE.  [Willows.  Willis.]  1.  George,  of  Cambridge,  bought 
Joseph  Parker's  right  and  lot  near  the  Baptist  Cliurch.  but  soon  sold  again 
to  Daniel  Shed.  1.  Perha])s  he  did  not  remove  to  Billerica;  and  he  d.  in 
Cambridge.  1690.  Ch.  Ihomas.  2,  b.  1638,  Dec.  28.  Stephen,  b.  1644, 
Oct.  14.     Children  and  descendents  of  both  may  be  found  in  ]Vi;man. 
2.  Thomas,  son  of  George,  1,  b.  1638,  Dec.  28.  He  was  granted. 
1661,  one-quarter  of  a  ten-acre  lot.  His  meadow  was  to  lie  wholl}-  west  of 
Concord  river;  '"always  declareing  that  his  acomodations  cauot  be  had  so 
nigh  and  convenient  as  some  who  formerh'  took  up  their  lots."  He  soon 
after  received  "  lyberty  to  exchange  a  percell  of  land  with  the  towne  :  that 
is  to  say,  Thomas  AViilice  is  granted  two  acres  and  a  halfe  of  land,  out 'of 
that  land  which  lyeth  on  y'=  South  side  of  will™  pattin's  seaven  acres  on  the 
Township,  (which  land  aeordinge  to  y"  towne  order  was  to  ly  for  y"  use  of 
 - 552 - 
WILLICE  —  WILSON.  1G3 
y«  ministry).  Thomas  Willice  is  to  have  six  pole  (wide  out  of  yt  land) 
at  y<=  west  end  of  it.  joynino-  to  will'"  pattin's  fenee  ;  and  einiit  pole  &  a 
halfe  wide  at  the  east  end  of  it.  with  a  stniight  lin,>  lietweu!-;'  and  Thomas 
Willice  did  grant  to  the  towne,  hi  considtn-ation  hereof,  three  acres  and 
therteen  pole,  to  be  taken  out  of  that  land  which  h?  bought  of  John 
Marshall  in  that  place,  the  neerest  land  to  Mr.  Whiting's  land,  which 
joyneth  to  it.  which  is  eleven  pole  &  a  halfe  wide  at  the  east  end.  which 
maketh  a  streight  line  in  both  parcells.  or  one  line  from  tlie  countr_y-road 
(which  leadeth  to  Shawshin)  to  the  old  Towne-ship  line  on  the  East."  He 
removed  to  Medford,  prob.  in  1672.  and  d.  there  1725.  Aug.  14.  He  m. 
1662-3.  January.  Grace  Tay,  dau.  of  William.  1,  who  died"l716,  Jan.  23, 
Ch.  Grace,  b.  1661.  May  18;  in.  Stephen  Hall.  Ihomas,  b.  1666.  Aug.  1"). 
iStcven,  b.  1669.  Xov.  2.3;  d.  Dec.  30.  Jnhii.  b.  1671.  April  3;  m.  Esther 
Gardner  (Wnnian  names  4  ch.)  EUzaJteth.  b.  1673,  Oct.  19;  m.  Stephen 
Hall  (see  Wnman).  Jane.  b.  1677.  April  9;  m.  Percival  Hall.  Stephen,  b. 
1679,  Nov.  16 ;  m.  Martha  Boardman  (see  Wi/man).  Martj.  b.  1682.  March  1  •
m.  Thomas  Gardner.      ir///(VnH,  b.  178o,  Julj'  7 ;   
d.  1754.  Aug.  27. 
WILLOUGHBY.  [Willibie,  in  our  Records.]  Hon.  Francis  Wil- 
loughby,  Deputy-Governor,  had  a  son  Nehemiah  b.  1644,  June  18,  who 
lived  in  Charlestown  and  Salem.  His  youngest  son  was  John.  b.  1688, 
Dec.  11 ;   prob.  the  father  of 
1.  John,  b.  1707.  Dec.  25.  who  m.  1735.  March  27.  Anna  Chamberlain, 
dau.  of  John.  6,  and  lived  in  Billerica  until  1743.  southwest  of  Nutting's 
pond.  He  removed  to  Hollis,  and  d.  there  1793.  Feb.  2.  Ch.  John.  b. 
1735,  Dec.  24;  was  one  of  the  pioneer  company  who  settled  Plymouth, 
N.H.,  1762.  He  spent  a  long  life  there;  "elder"  of  the  church  and  deacon 
for  67  years;  d.  1834,  June  22.  At  his  funeral  his  pastor.  Rev.  George 
Punchard,  said  that  ""'every  remembrance  of  him  was  pleasant  and  honor- 
able." He  m.  2d,  1774.  June  28.  in  Hollis,  Elizabeth  Sprake.  dau.  of 
Nicholas.  2.  ./'>«as.  b.  1737,  March  31  ;  lived  in  Hollis.  -/ose/ift.  b.  1739-40, 
Feb.  17;  d.  1810,  July.  Anna.  b.  1741,  May  30;  m.  Timothy  French,  of 
Hollis.  Mary.  b.  1742-3.  Feb.  26;  d.  1752.  'Susanna,  b.  1744.  IMay  26;  m. 
Jonathan  Powers,  of  Dunstable;  d.  1828,  Sept.  Samuel,  h.  1745,  Feb.  13; 
lived  in  Hollis.  and  had  13  ch.  ;  d.  1832,  Oct.  26.  Mehitable.  b.  1747,  Aug.  3. 
Rebecca,  b.  1749,  Feb.  13.  WilUam.  b.  1751,  Sept.  2;  d.  1773,  Nov.  Eliza- 
beth, b.  
1753,  April  3;   d.     Josiah.  b.  1755,  July  30;   d.  1757.  Sept. 
WILSON.  1.  John,  was  from  Woburn,  the  son  of  John,  and  b. 
about  1650.  Our  record  says:  '•21.  3"^-  1683.  At  a  town  meeting  on  a 
training-day.  the  town  granted  to  John  Wilson.  Jun""-  priviledge  upon  our 
commons  for  y'=  future,  to  the  proportion  of  a  five-acre  lot,  he  paying  to 
y*^  towne's  use  twenty  shillings  in  silver,  within  six  months."  ■•Also,  the 
town  did  declare  themselves  willing  to  give  one  day  work  of  each  man  in 
y"  town.  &  of  teams  of  those  that  "have  them,  for  the  makino-  a  sutticient 
way  to  John  Wilson's  corne  mill."  This  mill  of  Lieutenant  Wilson  was  on 
Vine  brook.  In  1685  he  was  granted  30  acres  of  land  on  the  southeast  of 
Shawshin  river,  bounded  42  poles  on  Woburn  line,  132  ])oles  on  Mrs. 
Mitchel's  farm,  and  on  the  west  end  next  to  Goodman  Bacon's  72  poles,  and 
upon  John  Johnson  116  poles.  This  grant  was  ••for  encouragement  towards 
his  corne  mill."  He  did  good  miUtary  service  as  lieutenant  in  Captain 
Converse'  company,  -'at  the  Eastward,"  1692-3,  and  especially  distinguished 
himself,  as  Cotton  Mather  relates,  by  the  relief  of  Dover  from  an  Indian 
alarm.     He  m.  Johanna    ,  and  1698,  Nov.  10,  Susanna,  widow  of  John 
Miles,  of  Concord.  The  first  four  ch.  were  b.  in  Woburn.  Ch.  John.  2,  b. 
1672-3,  Jan.  3.  Hannah,  b.  1674,  Dec.  28;  d.  1676.  Mav  5.  Hannah,  b. 
1677,  March  11.  Susanna,  b.  1679,  March  11;  m.  Stei^hen  Richardson,  2. 
Elizabeth,  b.  1683,  April  ^20;  m.  1704,  Dec.  26,  William  Simonds,  of 
Woburn.  Enth.  b.  1685,  March  '25.  Sarah,  b.  1687,  June  15.  Ebenezer,  b. 
1693,  Nov.  5.  and  d.  Dec.  S. 
2.  John,  son  of  John.  1,  b.  167-2-3.  Jan.  3;  m.  Elizabeth  Foster,  dau. 
of  Dea.  Joseph,  2.     Ch.  Jolin.   3,  b.  1695,  Dec,  26.    Elizabeth,  b.  1697 
 - 553 - 
1G4  WILSON. 
Nov.  8;  111.  William  Frost.  10.  Jnspph,  h.  1699,  May  21;  lived  prol).  in 
Crotoii.  ,lnaini(i.  b.  1701-2.  .Jan.  (i.  Allice.  h.  170H,  Nov.  12;  ni.  Isaac 
Stearns,  7.  Jac"h.  4,  h.  1704-.").  .Ian.  22.  iSarah,  h.  1700.  A])nl  17;  ni. 
John  Dean.  3.  Man/,  b.  1707-8.  Jan.  21.  Esther,  h.  1709-10.  .Ian.  29;  d. 
1728-9.  Feb.  2S.  Doirn.i.h.  17l\.D('c.'2;  ni.  Ebenezer  Wynian.  7.  Soth.h^ 
b.  17i;5,  Nov.  14.  Borjamhi.  b.  171").  Sept.  IS,  lived  also  in  Groton. 
llehecca.  h.  1717,  June  19';   d.  1728-9.  Mareh  11. 
Shed.3.   John,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  1(59.").  Dec.  20;  ni.  1722.  Nov.  2G.  .leininia 
dan.  of  John.  3.  She  d.  1740.  Sept.  14.  and  he  ni.  1742.  .June,  ^laiy, 
her  sister,  widow  of  Abraham  ('hamberiain.  7.  She  d.  1747.  March  IM.  and 
he  d.  17G4.  Mav  0.  (h.  Bni/dmin.  b.  1722-;i  March  4.  John.  6,  b.  1724. 
Sept.  20.  Jos^'ih.  b.  172r)-(;.  Feb.  20;  d.  1748,  Auj?.  26.  David,  b.  1726-7, 
3Iarch  20.  ExUvr.  b.  1728.  Dec.  14.  Bebecca.  b.  MM).  April  6.  Samwl.  6i, 
1).  1731.  Ausi'.  18.  Elizabeth,  b.  1732.  Oct.  10;  m.  17.55.  March  6,  John  Dan- 
forth,  of  Andover.  Joshua,  b.  1733.  Nov.  1;  d.  1737.  May  5.  Jacob,  h. 
1735,  May  29.  Leonard.  7,  b.  1736,  Oct.  24.  Jemima,  b.  "l737,  Nov.  30. 
Lucij.  h.  i738-9.  March  17. 
4.  Jacob,    son    of   John.    2,   b.   1704-5,  Jan.   22;    nu   Hannah    . 
Ch.  Renbcn.  b.  1737,  Dec.  14;  m.  1760.  Fel).  21.  Sarah  Mann.  Jonas,  b. 
1739,  .luly  19.  Elijah.  1).  1740,  Dec.  8.  Hannah,  b.  1742,  Dec.  26;  m. 
Thomas  Shed.  18.  Prndence.  h.  1744,  Aug.  7.  Perhaps  Dorcas,  who  m. 
Paul  Hill.  22.  Elizabeth.  l)ap.  1749.  April  2;  m.  1768,  Dec.  1.  Caleb 
Stevens,  of  Chelmsford.  Abigail,  bap.  1751,  Sept.  8.  Susanna,  b.  1752, 
Dec.  19;   ni.  William  Baldwin,  15. 
5.  Setll,  son  of  John.  2,  b.  1713,  Nov.  14 ;   m.  Mary    .     He  d.  17S3, 
Feb.  27.  Ch.  i¥(?rv,  b.  1744,  Dec.  4;  m.  Stephen  Richardson.  13.  Martha., 
I).  1746-7.  Feb.  20;  d.  1749.  Sept.  2.  Sarah,  b.  1749,  Nov.  23.  and  d.  1750, 
April.  3Inrtha.  b.  1751,  July  31;  m.  1776,  March  14,  Paul  Upton,  of 
AVilmington.  Benjamin,  b.  1753.  May  4;  d.  1776.  June  10,  in  captivity  at 
Halifax.  Solomon,  b.  1756.  June  5;  d.  1779,  March  23,  "in  the  Jerseys,  in 
the  war."'  Joseph,  h.  1759,  Feb.  8;  d.  1778,  Oct.  21.  Sarah,  b.  "l761, 
Dee.  13;  m.  AViUiam  Frost,  15.  Rhoda.  b.  1764,  June  20;  m.  Isaac 
Sprake,  8.     Seth.  10,  b.  1768.  Aug.  13. 
6.  John,  son  of  John.  3,  b.  1724,  Sept.  20;  m.  1748.  Nov.  8.  Alice 
Totuian.  prol).  sister  or  dau.  of  John,  1.  Ch.  Allice.  b.  1749.  Oct.  17;  m. 
Solomon  Manning,  12.  Rebecca,  b.  1752,  Feb.  6;  ni.  1774,  June  30, 
Nathaniel  Cumings  {see  1).  Elizabeth,  b.  1754,  Dec.  2.  John.  b.  1757, 
March  19;  d.  1778.  "in  the  war,  at  the  Jerseys."  Joseph,  b.  1759,  Sept.  9. 
Jemima,  b.  1763.  Jan.  17.     Henrii.  b.  176(i.  Oct.  20. 
6-i.     Samuel,  son  of  John.  3,  b.  1731.  Aug.  IS;   m.  Sarah     and  had 
ch.  :    Ahif/ail.  bap.  1749.  Dec.  3.     Samuel,  bap.  17.54.  Oct.  27. 
7.  Leonard,  son  of  John.  3,  b.  1736,  Oct.  24;  m.  1761.  Dec.  17, 
Rachel  Durrant.  dau.  of  Abraham.  5.  Ch.  Abraham,  b.  1762,  April  15. 
Joseph,  b.  1763.  July  2;  m.  1785.  Feb.  15.  Elizal>eth  Bonner,  and  1791. 
Maj-  10,  Rebecca  Sprake.  dau.  of  Nicholas.  4,  miless  the  latter  m.  Joseph, 
son  of  John.  (J.  Isaac.  8,  b.  1764.  Aug.  16.  Molh/.  b.  1766.  Oct.  1;  m. 
Joshua  Kidder  (see  15).     Renbcn.  b.  1768.  June  3. 
8.  Isaac,  son  of  Leonard.  7,  b.  1764.  Aug.  16;  m.  1789.  Jan.  6,  Sally 
Ditson,  dau.  of  Thomas,  4.     He  removed  to  Westford.     Ch.  Isaac,  b.  1789, 
July  23;    lived  in  Maine.     Nancy,   b.  1791.  June   2;    m.     Townsend. 
Sophronia.  b.  1793.  June  25 ;  ni.  1818,  March.  Leander  Hosmer.  1.  Andrew, 
b.  1795.  Oct.  27;  lived  in  Canaan,  N.H.;  drowned  in  Connecticut  river 
about  1840.     And  b.  in  Westford.  (ieorcie.  who  lived  in  Cavendisl).  Vt. 
9.  Daniel,  was  in  Bow.  N.H..  1813,  and  Tvngsboro",  1816.  He  m. 
Mary  Aldrich.  Ch.  3Iarij  Jane.  b.  1813.  Sept.  28;'  ni.  1832.  Nov.  29.  Capt. 
R.  Wilkins,  and  lives  in  Lawrence.  Adaline  Maria,  h.  1816.  July  20;  in. 
Gardner  Parker,  24.  Horace  Xeivell,  b.  1820,  March  12;  m.  Sybil  Spaulil- 
ing.  dau.  of  Edward.  10,  and  lives  in  Carlisle.  Daniel  Aldrich.  b.  1823, 
April  9.  and  d.  in  California;  one  son.  Israel  Nelson,  b.  1828.  Julv  20;  ni. 
   Colwell,  and   d.  1867.     Geon/e   Sherioin.  b.  1831.  Dec.  29;    d.    1842. 
 - 554 - 
WILSON  —  WOE  K.  165 
May  27.  Prances  Alhina.  h.  ISIU,  Jan.  10;  m.  James  Faulkner.  4.  Henry 
Dustin.  b.  18/55,  Dee.  12;  d.  WSS,  Nov.  1.  Charles  Henry,  h.  1840,  May  1; 
m.  Jennie  Colwell.  from  Vermont. 
10.  Seth,  son  of  8eth.  5,  b.  1708.  Aug.  1,3;   ni.  1794.  May  8.  Pollv 
Page,  of  Bedford.     C'li.  Snhmmu  and  Liiri/.  bap.  175)7,  Oct.  29.     Joseph    bai) 
1798.   Mareh   25.     Srth.   bap.    1799.   Oct.   18.     3Iary.   bap.    1801.   June   U. 
Clarissa,  bap.  1808.  ]Mareli  G.     Xana/.  bap.  1806.  April  27.     Abnira    bap' 
1807.  April  19.     Martha  Rirhardson,  bap.  ISIO.  July  8. 
11.  Leonard,  ra.  1831.  Ai)ril  3,  Sarab  A.  Brown. 
WINN,  Jacob,  and  wife  Molly.  Cli.  Ja'Mh,  b.  1780,  June  14.  Silas  b 
1782.  June  10.     DavicL  b.  1780.  3Iay. 
WINNING.  1.  Alexander,  is  on  tax-list  1738  ;  admitted  to  the  ehureh 
1748.  .Tune  17,  on  a  certificate  that  he  formerly  belonged  to  a  Presbyterian 
church  in  Ireland:  settled  near  the  fine  pond  which  bears  his  nanie.  and 
had  u  mill  on  the  brook  running  from  it.  No  record  of  birth  or  bap.  of  his 
eh.  is  found;  but  he  m.  1748.  Vfan.  12,  Deborah  Parker,  and  doubtless  had 
John,  2,  whose  name  is  on  the  list  after  1775;   prob.  AJexamler.  who  m. 
1808.  Nov.  20,  Dorcas  Danforth.  widow  of  Joseph,  22. 
2.  John,  m.  1780,  Dec.  7.  Lucy  Rogers,  dau.  of  Zebadiah.  10,  who  d. 
1790,  Jan.  1.  and  he  m.  1792.  Nov.  19.  Betsy  Parker,  of  Chelmsford.  He  d 
1822,  Nov.  4.  Ch.  EUznb,th,  b.  1781,  July  15.  WiUiam.  b.  1783.  Feb.  23! 
Elizabeth,  b.  1785.  March  3;  m.  Charles  Cutler.  Lucii,  b.  1787  Feb  lo' 
Sihhel.h.  1789,  April  20;  d.  1790.  Jan.  31.  John,  b,  1793,  Sept.  9.  Alex- 
ander, b.  
1795.  July  9;  d.  1798.  Aug.  13.  David  Park<r.  3,  b.  1797.  \pril  1 
Sibhel,  b.  1799,  Feb.  15;  ni.  1824.\A.pril  8,  Isaac  M.  Hardy,  of  .Vndover 
Polly,  b.  1801,  Dee.  10.  Alexander,  b.  1807.  Feb.  2(j.  Pobcrt.  b.  1810. 
Jan.  25. 
3.  David  Parker,  son  of  John,  2,  b.  1797,  April  1;   m.  Susan    . 
and  1840,  Feb.  13,  Rebecca  Coburn.  Ch.  Susan  Priscilla,  b.  in  Charlestown' 
1828.  July  21.  Martha  Frances,  b.  1832,  Dec.  29.  David  Parker,  b  1837" 
Feb.  18;'d.  1838.  April  22.  Clara,  b.  1841,  July  13.  Wniiam,  b.  1844^ 
Nov.  25.     James  and  Julia,  b.  1847,  Oct.  10. 
WINTER.  1.  S  eplien,  son  of  Samuel,  was  b.  in  Boston.  1798, 
Oct.  18;  m.  Hannali  Ilumplirey,  dau.  of  Dea.  Moses,  of  Gray,  Me.;  lived 
there  and  at  Charlestown  before  coming  to  Billerica  in  1839.  His  wife  d. 
1870,  Sept.  22.  aged  72;  he  d.  1870,  Sept.  2.  Ch.  Elizabeth  Adams,  b.  182o', 
Nov.  4;  m.  Robert  Dodge:  d.  1845.  Nov.  25.  ^¥a>v/  A'ff.s/j.  b.  1822.  Nov.  1  •
m.  John  T.  Goodwin.  5.  Martha  Ann,  b.  1825,  Aug.  13;  m.  184G.  Feb  \ 
Lewis  J.  Lyman,  of  Woburn;  d.  1876,  May  18.  Samuel  Earl,  2,  b.  1827^ 
June  26.     Sarah  French,  h.  IS3().  Bet'.  4;   d.  1845.  June  8. 
2.  Samuel  Earl,  son  of  Stephen.  1,  m.  1854,  July  16.  Catherine  E. 
Cobb,  dau.  of  Natlianiel.  Ch.  Edith,  b.  1855,  March  22;  n'l.  S.  F.  P>ench.  34. 
Lilian,  b.  1857.  May  25.     Ceorgp  Earl.  b.  1864,  Oct.  7. 
WOOD.     1.     Benjamin,  of  Dracut. m.  Mary  Patten,  dau.  of  William.  5. 
dau. 2.of   Joseph,  of  Dracut.  m.  1735-6.  Jan.  19,  Tabatha  Haseltiue,  prob. 
Samuel. 
3j    ^bijah,  m.  Esther  I^ewes.  dau.  of  Benjamin.  2. 
4.  Daniel,  m.  1804.  Nov.  29.  Anna  Mears,  dau.  of  Thomas.  2.  "A 
jury  of  inquest  was  held  upon  the  body  of  Daniel  Wood.  June  22,  1823. 
and  he  must  have  been  dead  some  days  previous  to  this  time."'  Ch.  Xancn, 
b.  and  d.  1805,  June  27.  Anna  Chase,  b.  1806.  May  9;  m.  1830.  April  26. 
Isaiah  Bussev.  Eliza  Farmer,  b.  1808,  Feb.  26;  m.  1827,  March  25,  Henry 
Khigsbury.    ^Daniel,  b.  1810.  March  22. 
Dec. WOODARD,10.Thomas  ThomasHenni.    D.,  and  wife  Susan.  'Ch.  Caroline  Clark,  b.  1841. 
b.  1844.  Jan.  10. 
WOOLFENDEN,  Joseph,  and  wife  Betsey.  Ch.  James  Pobert,  h.  1838, 
May  11.     Sarah  Dana.  b.  1840.  March  25.     Alice  Ann.  b.  1842.  Nov.  28. 
Nov."WORCESTER,11.  Eldad,  and  Esther  Brown,  of  Tewksbury;    ni.  1793, 
WORK,  Ariel.     [See  PARKER,  19.] 
 - 555 - 
166  WRIGHT  —  WYM  AN. 
WRIGrHT.  1.  John,  in.  1775,  Sept.  4,  Hannah  Walker,  dau.  of 
Joseph.  8,  or  Benjanun,  7.  llaiiuah.  the  dau.  of  Joseph  Walker,  may  have 
been  the  wife  of  Silas  Earl.v.  Ch.  Snrnli.  h.  177r).  Nov.  21  ;  m.  1800. 
Feb.  -27.  Phineas  Colburn.  'jolni,  b.  1777,  Dec.  12.  Hannah,  b.  1780. 
April  11.  Lnnj,  h.  1782,  April  12.  Jusiah.  b.  1784.  May  20.  Robec.ca.  b. 
1780.  Oct.  2li;  m.  180U,  March  2.  Stephen  (Greenland,  of  Boston.  Isaac, 
h.  1789.  Feb.  9.  Elizabeth,  b.  1791.  May  1.  Jonathan.  3,  b.  1793.  Aug.  IS. 
Lydia.  b.  1796.  Jan.  16. 
2.  Asa,  m.  1802.  Sept.  28.  Abigail  Sanders,  dau.  of  John.  9,  and  2d, 
Mary    .     Ch.  Abigail,  who  had  1821.  Dec.  14.  dau.  Elinira  Page.     Ilhoda, 
h.  180.5.  Jan.  29.     3Iar>i.  b.  1807.  A])ril  30.     Joseph,  b.  1810,  March  26. 
3.  Jonathan,  son  of  .John.  1,  b.  1793.  Aug.  18;  ni.  1825.  May  8. 
Hannah  P.  Allen,  dau.  of  Zadock.  5.  Ch.  Rcbprca.  b.  1826.  Oct.  13;'  m. 
William  Campbell,  of  Boston.  Alvin.  b.  1828.  April  10;  d.  in  California. 
Sr-rcna.  b.  1830.  March  26;  d.  1852.  March  8.  Jackson.  5.  b.  1831.  Sept.  20. 
JnJiHtP.  b.  1833,  May  28;  d.  1841,  Nov.  19.  Ellen,  b.  1835.  Nov.  20;  d. 
1841.  Nov.  Catherine,  b.  1837,  Aug.  15;  d.  1841.  Nov.  John.  b.  1838, 
Sept.  19 ;  went  to  California.  Isaac,  b.  1841.  Feb.  10 ;  d.  Nov.  15.  Josiah.  6, 
b.  1842.  Oct.  12.  Ehlora,  b.  1844.  Aug.  2;  m.  Edward  G.  Tutein.  of 
Chelsea. 
4.  Edward,  was  fi-oni  South  Hadley.  He  m.  1836.  June  2.  Mary 
Elizabeth  Wilson,  of  Boston,  where  he  was  an  engraver;  d.  1863.  Sept.  11. 
Ch.  Edward  Irving,  b.  1837.  June  23 ;  m.  1863,  Oct.  7,  Esther  U.  Burnap, 
and  lives  in  Newton.  Emihi  Eliza  and  Ellen  Mar>i,  b.  1839,  June  30;  d. 
1841.  Dec.  31  and  25.  Alfcd  Ela.  b.  1841,  July  27 ;  d.  1842.  Jan.  22.  Clara 
Jane.  b.  1845.  May  1 ;  d.  1867,  March  8.  Ella  Frances,  b.  1849.  Jan.  9;  ni. 
1873,  Sept.  9.  George  E.  Searl  Kinney,  of  Boston.  They  have  ch.  :  Mary 
Ella,  b.  1874.  Oct.  27;  Grace  Nason".  b.  1876.  Nov.  28;  George  Searl,  b. 
1878.  Oct.  30.  Anna  Elrira.  b.  1851,  Ai)ril  25;  m.  1870,  April  25.  Pev. 
Sanuiel  Sherberne  Mathews.  He  was  son  of  Eev.  S.  S.  Mathews,  of 
Salisbury;  b.  •1847.  Juns  3;  grad.  Andover  Theo.  Sem..  1874;  ordained 
pastor  in  Wilmington.  1874,  Oct.  23;  dismissed,  1875,  Oct.  29;  acting 
l)astor.  ]Maynard.  1876-7;  installed.  1879.  Feb.  4.  Boylston  church.  Boston, 
which  was  organized  in  conn-^ctian  \\ith  his  labors  in  1878.  Th^y  have  ch.  : 
Anna  Elizabe'th  Doten.  b.  1872.  June  30 ;  Edith  Latiirop,  b.  1875.  March  1 ; 
Mabel  Babcock.  b.  1877.  Jan.  31. 
5.  Jackson,  son  of  Jonathan.  3,  b.  1831.  Sept.  20;  m.  1860.  Sept.  30, 
Georgiana  B.  Page.  dau.  of  Arza.  7.  Cli.  Mabel  Frances,  b.  1861.  March  15; 
d.  1868.  April  4.  \4?^'/i.  b.  1865,  Aug.  23;  d.  1877,  Feb.  9.  Jennie  Gertrud", 
h.  1869.  Oct.  20. 
(J.  Josiah.  son  of  Jonathan.  3,  b.  1842.  Oct.  12;  m.  Emma  L.  Johnson, 
of  Stonehain.  Ch.  Charles  Alvin.  b.  1872,  June  20.  Annie  Maij.  b.  1876, 
Dec.  24.     Ilarrii  Allen,  b.  1879.  Feb.  1. 
WY.HAN.  This  important  Woburn  family,  living  near  the  Billerica 
line,  often  appears  incidentally  in  our  records,  but  lias  rarely  furnished 
inhal)itants.  The  brothers  .Fohn  and  Francis  were  among  the  first  settlers 
of  Woburn.  They  purchased  of  President  Dunster.  of  Harvard  College. 
his  Shawshin  grant  of  500  acres.  The  deed  bears  date,  1655,  ^lay  10,  or  a 
few  days  before  Shawshin  became  Billerica.  and  describes  the  land:  •"500 
acres,  lying  scituate  at  Shawshinn.  betwixt  the  lands  of  Capt.  Gookin  up 
the  streame  and  the  lands  lately  given  to  Edward  Collins  down  the  streame 
of  Shawshinn  river,  bounded  with  Woburne  line  on  that  end  which  towards 
Woburne  is  sided,  and  reaching  onwards  towards  the  township  so  far  as  to 
make  up  due  measure."  The  price  paid  was  £100.  Collins"  grant,  below, 
extended  to  the  Woburn  road,  and  was  sold  to  Champney  ;  and  Gookin's 
farm,  above,  was  about  ^'ine  brook  and  mostly  in  Bedford.  Stephen 
Kichardson.  2,  ^^■ho  first  appears  as  occupant  of  these  lands,  was  a  gr.-son 
of  Fi'ani'is  \V\yman.  and  probably  inherited  a  part  or  all  ,of  it.  Questions 
about  the  taxation  of  the  Wymans  arose  between  Woburn  and  Billerica, 
and  in  October,  1669,  the  matter  came  before  the  General  Court,  and  a 
 - 556 - 
WYMAN— YOUNG.  167 
coiTimittee  advised:  "Whereas,  Frances  &  John  AVeymans,  Sen"-  have 
their  present  habitaeions  neere  the  Lyne  *  and  enioying  much  of 
y  lively  hood  and  benefit  at  both  Towns,  and  may  partake  of  the 
publick  ordinances  in  both  places,  they,  the  said  Weymans.  shall  contribute 
equally  to  both  Towns,  in  all  public  charges,  botli  civell  and  eclisiasticall." 
This  report  was  accepted  and  contlrined  by  the  Court,  but  did  not  terininaLe 
the  difficulty.  In  1672,  the  Wymans  petition  for  release  from  Billerica,  and 
Billerica  instructs  the  selectmen  to  prosecute  them  for  not  paying  their 
dues  ;  but  the  result  was  against  the  claims  of  this  town.  Two  daughters 
of  John  Wyman  m.  Joseph  Walker,  1,  and  Nathaniel  Tay,  2;  and  a  dau. 
of  Francis  m.  Nathaniel  Bacon.  3.  Seth  AVyman,  a  son  of  John,  was  the 
father  of  Seth.  famous  for  the  honorable  part  he  bore  in  the  Lovewell 
expedition.     (See  Ross,  Thomas,  3.) 
1.  Joseph,  son  of  Timotliy.  son  of  Francis,  b.  1695.  Nov.  1;  m.  Ruth 
 b.  ,  and  removed  to  Pelham.  *N.H.     Ch.  Buth,  b.  1723.  Sept.  15.    JosejyJi. 
1725,  Sept.  10. 
2.  Thomas,  son  of  William,  son  of  Francis,  b.  1685,  Jan.  15;  m. 
Eachel  Stearns,  widow  of  Samuel,  6.  [Bond,  p.  453,  gives  this  Thomas 
a  less  probable  record.]  He  disappears  from  tax-list  in  1739,  and  is  said  to 
have  lived  in  Pelham.  Ch.  Thomas,  b.  1730-1.  March  4.  Lncij,  b.  1733, 
Aug.  23;   m.  Edward  Stearns.  9.     Sibel,  b.  1735,  Aug.  29.     Simon,  b.  1739. 
3.  Increase,  son  of  Increase',  of  Nathaniel-,  of  Francis\  born  in 
Woburn,    1732,   June  4;     disappears   from    tax-list  in  1773,   and   was  in 
Charlestown  after  1784.     His  wife  was  Catharine    .     Ch.  Kathrine,  b. 
1755,  Nov.  14;  m.  Simon  Blanchard,  8.  Jemimah,  b.  1757.  Feb.  10. 
Ammaziah,  b.  1758.  March  23.  3I(ir>i.  b.  1760.  June  11.  Hezekiah.  UUsha, 
b.  1762.  Jan.  28.  Abiijail,  b.  1763,  Oct.  17.  Simeon.  Increase.  Elizaheth. 
b.  1770,  May  28.  These  seven  younger  ch.  were  all  bap.  together,  1773. 
Dec.  5. 
4.  Amos,  son  of  Timothy",  of  Timothy-,  of  Francis^  His  mother 
was  Hannah  Wyman.  cousin  of  his  father.  He  was  b.  in  Woburn,  1723, 
June  20,  and  d.  in  Billerica,  1797.  Sept.  19,  having  been  on  the  tax-list  from 
1760.  No  family  appears  on  the  records,  but  his  name  has  become  notable 
in  our  history,  because  his  house,  in  the  southeasterly  corner  of  the  town, 
became  the  refuge  of  Adams  and  Hancock,  on  the  memorable  day  of 
I>exington  and  Concord,  1775,  April  19.  His  wife  was  Kezia  Kendall,  and 
she  m.  1799.  Oct.  22,  Ebenezer  Richardson.  11. 
5.  Jesse,  is  on  tax-list.  1759-67,  and  m.  1764,  Sept.  18,  Catherine 
Johnson,  of  AN'obum. 
6.  John,  on  tax-list.  1754,  and  Timothy,  1759-65. 
7.  Ebenezer,  of  Townsend,  m.  1745.  April  2,  Dorcas  Wilson,  dau.  of 
John,  2. 
8.  Eliphaz,  of  Woburn.  m.  Mary  Pollard,  dau.  of  John,  3. 
YORK,  Pompey,  and  wife  Ditto.  '  
b.  1732,  Aug.  10.     Eunice.,  b.  1734-5.      Ch.  Lydia,  b.  1730,  Aug.  6.     Samson, 
Jan.  3. 
YOUNG,  Arteinas,  and  wife  Adeline  W.  Ch.  Frank  William,  b.  1832, 
Nov.  27.     I^oraee  William,  b.  1833,  Nov.  16;  d.  in  Lowell,  1836,  Sept.  17. 
 - 557 - 
168                                FAMILY   NAMES. 
FAMILY  NAJIES  OCCURRING  IN  BILLERICA  BEFORE  1700. 
The  following  list  gives  the  Jiaine  of  tlie  first  settler,  bearing  the  name, 
and  the  date  of  iiis  first  known  rt>si(lence  in  town.  In  a  few  cases,  notably 
those  of  Brown.  Foster,  and  Parker,  the  line  has  not  been  continuous.  Of 
the  eighty-three  families  of  the  17tli  century,  the  following  are  now  repre- 
sented ill  
town  by  descendants  who  bear  the  name;  Baldwin,  Crosby, 
Farmer.  Frost.  Hill.  Kittredge.  Manning.  Patten.  Kichardson.  Rogers, 
Shed.  Stearns,  and  AVhiting.  rhe  families  of  Danforth  ami  Pollard  have 
also  female  representatives.  And  if  the  inquiry  be  extended,  as  is  proper, 
to  the  bounds  of  ancient  Billerica,  we  may  add  the  names  of  Bacon, 
Brown.  Fitch.  French,  Kidder.  Lane,  Levistone,  Marshall,  Page,  and  Trull. 
With  these  additions,  it  appears  that  twent\-five  families,  or  almost  one  in 
three  remain,  after  two  hundred  years,  in  the  ancient  bounds  of  the  town. 
Bacon.  Michael.  1672 
Baldwin.  John.  1657 
Bird,  Simon.  1659 
Blood.  John. 
Blv.  Daniel.  1676 
Bracket.  John.  1660 
Brooks.  Timothy.  1670 
Brown.  Jacob.  1658 
Butler.  Jan)es.  1679 
Carrier,  Thomas.  1674 
Chainberline,  William.  1653 
Champnev.  Samuel.  16.58 
Corneal.  Peter.  1695 
Crosby.  Simon.  16.59 
Danforth.  .Jonathan.  1653 
Daniel.  Richard.  1669 
Davis.  Joseph.  1691 
Ditson,  Hugh.  1691 
Dunkin,  John.  1670 
Durrent,  John.  1659 
Dutton,  Thomas.  1669 
Farley,  George.  16.53 
Farmer,  Edward.  1671 
Fassett,  Patrick.  1680 
Fisher.  Ste]>hen. 
Fitch.  Samuel.  1695 
Foster.  Thomas.  1659 
French  William.  1653 
Frost.  James.  1664 
Gorton.  Abraham.  1682 
Grimes,  (ieorge.  1677 
Hale.  Williani.  16.58 
Hamlet,  William.  1656 
Ilassell,  PiU-hard.  1676 
Hide,  Jonathan.  1673 
Hill,  Ralph.  1653 
Holden,  -Justinian.  1694 
Hoi)kins.  William.  1697 
Hosley.  James.  1699 
Hubbard.  Thomas.  1662 
Hunt    Samuel.  1689 
Jefts,  Heurv.  1653 
Kemp,  Samuel.  1658 
Kidder,  James.  1656 
Kinsley,  Samuel.  1658 
Ixittredge,  John.  1660 
I>ane.  Job.  1664 
Levistone.  John.  1677 
Lewis.  Samuel.  1683 
Mackginnis.  Daniel.  1678 
Manning,  Samuel.  1664 
Marshall.  John.  1656 
Meades.  Daniel.  1679 
More.  Golden.  1658 
Osban.  Thomas.  1679 
Page.  Xathaniel.  1688 
Pahie.  Thomas.  1664 
Parkei-.  John.  1653 
Paterson.  James.  1658 
Patten.  Thomas.  1654 
Pcrrv.  Obadiah.  1677 
Pollard.  Thomas.  1692 
Poulter.  John.  1658 
Richardson.  Thomas.  1667 
Rogers.  -John.  1656 
Ross,  Thomas.  1667 
Sanders,  John.  1671 
Sharp.  Robert.  1688 
Shed.  Daniel.  16.59 
Sheldon.  John.  16.58 
SoUendine.  John.  1677 
Stearns.  John.  1653 
Tay.  William.  1656 
Tompson.  Joseph.  1660 
'I'ootliaker,  Roger.  1660 
Trull,  John.  16,58 
Walker.  Joseph.  1667 
Web,  Christopher.  1658 
Whiting,  Rev.  Samuel.  1658 
Whittakcr.  John.  1679 
Wilkinson,  Thomas.  1676 
Williee,  Thomas.  16.59 
Wilson,  John.  1683 
 - 558 - 
HISTOHY    OF    BILLEK'ICA.                                 1G9 
FAMfLV   ^AUEH.^Contimied.     ITOO-.-in. 
Abbot.  Josbua. 
Atbcrton.  Dr.  Benjamin. 
Ballard.  jMnatban! 
Beard.  Ancbvw. 
BlaiR'hard.  Jobn. 
B6\vers.  Jonatban. 
fHiandler.  Rev.  Jolni. 
Cowdry,  John. 
Cuuihigs.  Natbaniel. 
Davidson.  Nathaniel. 
]>ean,  P^l)enezer. 
Dowse.  Ebenezer. 
Dunckle.  Hezekiah. 
Easte.  Benjamin. 
Gra,y,  Bravitei-. 
Hali.  Eicbard. 
Hardy.  Zaehariah. 
Ilazeltine.  Samuel. 
Henr\^  John. 
Heywood.  Benjamin. 
Hutchinson.  Nathan. 
Hutson,  Nathaniel. 
Jaquith.  Abraham. 
Johnson,  Josiah. 
]71()            Kendall.  Keuben.                          174S 
1 7;{;}                 Laws.  James. 
173(1 
172-_> 
Eewis.  Benjamin. 
17i:j            Mansfield.  Jobn.                             1729 
■    17(11              Mears.  Robert.                                 172(5 
'hiutt  1720          Munroe.  Joseph.                            172(1 
1747           Xeedham.  John.                              1734 
1702 
174n          Xiekles.  John. 
1 73.") 
1741J            Osg'ood.  Christopher.                    170S 
i7;is            Peaeoek.  Sanuiel.                before  1713 
1 7;5() 
Putnam.  Seth. 
] 71o           Ruggles.  Rev.  Samuel.                 1719 
1 70S 
1740          Smith.  Alexandei-.                           1722 
1782          Snow,  Richard.                               1733 
1738           Siiaulding.  Benoni.                        1717 
172(5            Sprake,  Nicholas.                            1721 
172i)            Stickney,  Abraham.                    1727 
1723          Tarbell.  John.                      ahoitt  1730 
1749          Whipple.  John.                               1722 
1711           White,  John.                                    173G 
1741           AVbitmore.  Thomas. 
1719           WilJoug-bby.  John.                        173.5 
1735 
1728          Winning,  Alexander.                   1738 
1733          W^ymanJ  Joseph.                            1723 
FAMILY  NAMES.  —  1750-1800. 
Allen,  Samuel. 
Barrett,  Oliver. 
Bennett,  Stephen. 
Bowman,  Francis. 
Bridge,  Samuel. 
Carleton.  John. 
Center,  John. 
Cook,  Paul. 
Craige,  Thomas. 
Currier,  William. 
Daudlv.  John. 
1763 
1768 
1780 
17(58 
1780 
1759 
1741 
1771 
1783 
1775 
1793 
Gleason,  William.  1754 
Goodwin.  Thomas.  1754 
Hurd,  Dr.  Isaac.  1778 
T-ampson.  Samuel.  1762 
Pemberton,  James.  1755 
Russell.  Benjamin.  1786 
Skilton.  John.  1770 
Totman.  John.  1752 
Tufts.  Ebenezer.  1787 
Wilkins,  Dr.  William.  1791 
Wright.  John.  1775 
 - 559 - 
Additions  and  Corrections, 
ADAMS.     4.     Rt'ad.  AVillium  Greenou^h  MacCartv. 
ALLEN.     9.     Heiirv,  d.  187G,  Dec.  31. 
BALDWIN.     1.     Jolm.     Dau.  i¥«/-?/   in.  Henry  Jefts.  3. 
2.  John.     Itnth  m.     Wynian. 
4.  Thomas,  ni.  Sarah  French,  dau.  of  Jacob.  3.  Joseph  and  Jacob 
lived  in  Townsend. 
5.  Thomas,  b.  1696-7.  Marcli  15.  He  went  to  Mansfield,  Conn.,  about 
1735;  had  other  ch..  William,  Sarah,  and  Benjamin,  and  d.  1749-50.  (See 
Baldwin  Genealof/i/.)  Eleazer,  A>ta.  and  Benjamin  wei-e  among  the  first  set- 
thn-s  of  Dorset.  Vt.;  Asa  being  its  first  town  clerk,  and  afterwards  noted 
for  Tory  piintiiples. 
().     William.     His  widow  prob.  ni.  William  Tompson,  3. 
7.  Jonathan.     Had  also  dau.  Sarah,  who  m.  John  Patten,  12, 
8.  Josiali.  After  Josiah  inseit  Joshxia,  who  lived  in  Tewksburj'.  — 
Jesse  settled  in  Lyme.  X.  H. 
9.  .John,  did  not  marry  Elizabeth  Parkhurst. 
10.  David.  The  David  who  m.  P.  Davis  was  from  Townsend,  gr.-son 
of  Joseph  (see  Thomas,  4). 
13.  This  Thomas  was  son  of  Joseph  who  m.  Esther  Manning  and  set- 
tled in  
Townsend  (see  4). 
14.  John,     liad  also  Oliver  and  William. 
16.  Nahum.     Rizpah  d.  1841.  July  29. 
17.  John,  d.  1800,  Dec.  4;  his  Avife  d.  1805,  Sept.  25.  aged  73.  Joel 
d.  1829.  Dec.  26. 
23.     Joel,  d.  1836,  Feb.  4. 
BARRETT.  2.  Stephen,  d.  1811,  Aug.  16,  aged  55 ;  his  wife  d.  1805, 
April  27.  aged  45. 
BARRON.     2.     Moses.     Moses  d.  1778,  Sept.  9. 
3.  Isaac.  His  wife  d.  1819,  Nov.  23 :  he  d.  1820.  May  8 :  Isaac  d. 
1819,  Oct.  8. 
BATCHELLER.     1.    Joseph,  m.  1810,  April  3,  Pebecca  Wilson. 
BEAN.     William,  m.  Martha  Frost,  dau.  of  James.  11. 
BEARD.     12.     Isaac,  d.  1805,  Oct.  11,  aged  70.     i?e6ecca,  1834,  Feb.  19. 
BENNETT.     3.     Joshua.     BeheccM  d.  June  18. 
BLANCHARD.  10.  Isaac,  d.  1816,  Dec.  25.  Insert  :  Susannah,  d. 
1796.  Feb.  19,  aged  2. 
11.  Joseph.     JldoZ^/ufs  d.  1833,  Nov.  11. 
BOWERS.  6.  Samuel.  Elizabeth  m.  1803,  March  20,  Abraham  R. 
Thompson,  of  Charlestown  ;  d.  1867,  August  7.  Sarah  m.  Pev-  Bernard 
Whitman,  {see  Crosby,  33,)  liis  second  wife. 
9.  Joseph  T.     His  wife  d.  1824.  April  25.     3Iaria  F.  d.  1850,  Aug.  19. 
10.  Henry,  m.  Eliza  A.  Dows,  dau.  of  Joseph,  6. 
BOWLEND.  1.  Benjamin,  d.  1812,  June  23,  aged  43;  his  wife  d. 
1812.  Nov.  2.  aged  39.  It  Avas  a  daughter  Isabella,  b.  1796,  who  m.  Charles 
Goodwin. 
BOWMAN.  6.  Ebenezer.  John  Bowman  and  Hannali  Wilson  wei"e 
ni.  1758,  May  16.  Their  son  John  was  bapt.  1759.  July  15.  Hannah,  wife 
of  John  Bowman,  of  Medford,  was  nj.  1768,  Nov.  16. 
BRIDGE.    2.    Samuel,  d.  1818,  May  2,  aged  60.    //ewyd.  1826,  April  15. 
BROWN.     7.     Samuel.    His  wife  d.  Nov.  17. 
10.     Samuel,  d.  1790.  March  26. 
 - 560 - 
ADDITIONS    AND    CORRECTIONS.  171 
16.     Elislia.     Sarah  J.  in.  AVilliam  D.  .Meers,  6. 
16.  Jonas.     Harriet  in.  Duuiel  Hartford. 
17.  Isaac.     AljWd  m.  18B4.  Jan.  23,  Mary  J.  Do\v8,  dau.  of  Calvin.  8. 
19.  John,  ni.  Sarah  Hill,  dau.  of  Paul,  22. 
23.  Rodney.     E/i.^a  m.  Thomas  Spaulding.  11. 
Add  :  26.  Thaddeus,  m.  d.  See  CROSBY,  33,  and  add  :  Thaddem 
Hotce,  b.  1838.  -Juno  17;  "rad.  Y.  C.  1860.  and  Audover  Theo.  Seni..  18()4  ; 
ordained.  North  Woodstock.  Conn.,  18G6.  April  11.  and  d..  pastor  of  that 
church.  18(58.  Oct.  10. 
BURROWS.    Voluntine,  d.  1873. 
CABLETON.     2.    John,  d.  1807.  Dec.  5. 
7.  Amos,  d.  1833,  Aug.  7.     Daniel,  d.  1836.  Jan.  20. 
CORNEAL.  This  reconl  occurs.  1698-9,  Jan.  3  :  ^-The  town  do  grant 
to  Peter  Cornelious.  a  frenchman  inhabiting  among  us,  about  fourteen  acres 
of  upland  toward  Jonathan  ballding,  and  joining  to  piece  of  upland  of 
Serg'  John  Marshall,  and  a  division  of  meadow  of  his";  for  which  land 
he  was  to  i)ay  the  town  five  shillings  pei-  acre. 
CROSBY.  .5.  Josiah,  was.  I  think,  the  lieutenant  and  captain  of  that 
name  in  the  Louisburg  expedition.  1745.  It  is  clear  from  the  records  that 
this  military  officer  could  not  have  been  the  son  (Josiah,  14)  who  died  in 
town  about  1743.  but  was  not.  as  the  text  suggests.  ••  killed  by  the  Indians." 
and  his  son  Josiah  was  only  fourteen  years  old  in  174r>.  "  
But  the  first 
•Josiah.  5,  had  been  long  known  in  the  IJecords  as  ••Sergeant,"  and  thus, 
if  he  did  go  to  the  war.  would  be  likely  to  have  a  commission;  and. 
although  he  describes  himself  as  feeble,  iii  his  will,  in  1743,  he  may  have 
recovered  from  an  illness,  and  yielded,  at  sixty-seven,  to  the  impulses  of 
his  military  career  and  the  call  of  Pepperell.  and  gone  to  hardships  anil 
perils  which  i)roved  fatal  to  the  veteran. 
8.  Solomon,  prob.  d.  in  the  Louisburg  exjjcdition.  (Sec  New  England 
Historical  mid  (ii'uctihtglcjd  Register.     Vol.  XXV.  ])p.  2r)3  and  262.) 
14.     .Josiah.     {,Sec  ahuve".)     Change  1747  to  1748.  in  the  4th  line 
24.  Oliver.     Line  11  :     For  Atkinson,  read  Dexter.  Me. 
33.  Josiah.  For  Hey  wood,  read  HartweJl.  Mrs.  Whitman  d.  prob. 
in  1832.  and  her  husband  m.  Sarah  Bowers,  dau.  of  Samuel,  6.  He  was 
ord.  Feb.  l.j.  not  June  8.  Susannah  :  add  to  lier  record  the  note  above,  under 
BROWN,  20,  Dr.  Thaddeus.     Martha  d.  1829.  Julv  24. 
d.     38.  Micliael,  d.  1863.  Dec.  29.  and  his  wife  d".  1837.  Feb.  7.  Josiah  M. 
1859.  Dec.  14.  Warren  B.  d.  1838.  Oct.  12.  Lucretia  m.  Kev.  Mr.  Cooper, 
and  d.  1841,  Sept.  25.  Cyrus  F.  m.  Lois  E.  Lane.  Franliin  d.  18.')6,  Dec.  12. 
Elleii  m.Otis  Simonds.  of  Lexington,  and  d.  1870.  Jan.  26.  Add:  Margaret 
Farmer,  wlio  m.  A.  D.  Farnum.  of  Concord.  X.  II. 
CUMINWS.     1.     Nathaniel,  m.  Rebecca  Wilson,  dau.  of  John.  6. 
DANDLEY.     John,  was  b.  in  BlUerica  about  1760. 
DANFORTH.     3.     Samuel.     Ahiqail  m.      Rugglcs. 
4.    Thomas.    See  SIMONS,  William. 
20.  Nicholas,  prob.  went  to  Fitchl)urg:  d.  in  Stillwater.  X.  V.  ;  had 
otlier  ch.  :  Isaac.  Jacal).  Francis.  Abraham.  Joslma.  Siisanno.  and  Joseph. 
Elizabeth  m.  Gardnei-  Marcv;    lived  in  Hartlaiid.  Vt. 
21.  William.     Jonathan  b.  1769.  Feb.  -23. 
DEAN.     3.     John,  m.  Sarah  Wilson,  dau.  of  John.  2. 
DITSON.  4.  Thomas,  d.  1828.  Alice  m.  Oliver  (iragg.  of  Groton 
and  Boston;  had  ten  ch..  of  whom  Cordelia  m..  1842,  Samuel  A.  Danforth. 
who  d.  in  Auburndale,  1866.  June  24.  He  was  a  son  of  Joshua  Danforth. 
of  Pittsfield.  but  b.  in  Western,  now  AVarren.  Mass..  1759.  Xov.  2(i:  whose 
father  Jonathan  d.  1837.  Jan.  30. 
DOWSE.  1.  Ebenezer.  b.  Sept.  4;  m.  Mary  Hunt.  dau.  of  .Sanuu'l. 
1  :   d.  1777.  Sept.     Mary  h.  Xov.  26;   d.  1746.  Xov.  22. 
2.  Benjamin,  m.  Hannah  Meers.  daughter  of  Robert,  1.  Martha  m. 
Nathaniel  Kittredge  (see  12).     Abigail  b.  Sept.  7. 
3.  Ebenezer.     3/«r^  perhaps  b.  June  19.     J/o%  may  be  the  same. 
 - 561 - 
172  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
4.  Elcazer,  m.  Tau-y  I'l'octor.  Elcuzer  went,  in  17SS.  to  (liarlton, 
N.Y.  ;  HI.  17i)(),  Nov.  2").  Luida.  d:ui.  of  Capt.  Jolin  Wrigiit.  and  had  among 
other  th..  David,  a  well-known  and  wealthy  bnsiness  man  of  New  ^oik, 
and  James,  of  Ca/enovia.  Lucy  m.  Isaae  Holmes.  Thomas  lived  in  Cliai'l- 
ton,  N.  Y..  and  in  Ohio. 
5.  Benjjliniii.  Ilis  second  wife  jjiob.  not  the  dau.  of  Isaac  Marshall. 
PkUii  m.  John  I'arker.  as  did  PdUii.  Jnnathnn  m.  Betsey  Crosby,  dau.  of 
John,  of  Chelmsford:    d.  lt<44.  Sei)t.  21;    she  d.  1881.  Dec.  21. 
6.  Joseph,  b.  Feb.  5.  His  wife  d.  1809.  May  8,  and  he  ni.  1811  .  
Jan.  2!). 
Mary  Sprake.  dan.  of  Isaac.  S,  who  d.  1841.  Jan.  28.  Jmla  m.  Ebenezer 
Xevvman,  of  VVo!)urn.  Olive  b.  Jan.  1;  m.  Ephraim  Hinckley,  and  lived 
in  Maine.  The  family  record  gives  births  of  3J<n-y.  Sept.  lo;  Elbridgc, 
May  21.  and  Amos  IF.,  June  29.  Orpha  d.  1878.  Se])t.  3.  Emi'line  Parsons 
ni.  John  R.  Mills,  2.  Elhridge  m.  1845.  Aug.  21,  Sarah  Ramsey,  of  Ran- 
dolph. Vt.   ;  a  dau.  Hattie  b.  184(3.  Aug.  Amos  Wriijht  is  a  merchant  in 
Lowell;  m.  18,-)4,  April  12.  Elizabeth  D.  Smith,  of  Westford.  and  has  cli., 
Albin  A.  b.  ISoO,  Sept.  18  ;  d.  1857.  Aug.  27  ;  Azro  Milton  b.  18.58.  Nov.  18; 
.Justin  Newell  b.  1861.  April  23;  Lettie  Maria  b.  1864.  Nov.  80.  Gustavus 
Davis  m.  1854,  Dec.  31.  Marv  Jsme  Ballard,  of  Litchlield.  Me.;  has  ch., 
Walter  G.  b.  1857,  Oct.  10;  Joseph  Henry  b.  1861.  Nov.  21  ;  George  II.  b. 
1871,  Feb.  16;    Jennie  Florence  b.  1872.  July  19. 
7.  Joseph,  d.  1868,  Aug.  23.  His  ch.  was  Joseph,  not  Maria,  who  d. 
1861.  Dec.  18. 
8.  Calviu,  m.      Ward,  of  Ashl)urnham.  He  lived  hi  Lowell.  Bos- 
ton, and  Medford,  and  d.  in  Florida,  1874,  Feb.  9;  but  most  of  his  ch.  were 
b.  in  Billerica  and  should  read  thus:  E/bridr/e  A.  b.,  in  Ashburnham,  1843, 
April  3;  d.  1847,  Sept.  7.  Mar)j  m.  Alfred  Brown  (see  17).  Clara  Eliza 
b.  1847,  March  5;  m.  1867,  April  7.  Edward  Bailey,  and  d.  1879.  Feb.  14. 
Harriet  Newell  b.  1849.  Jan.  20;  m.  1869.  Jan.  17,  Samuel  Farwell.  FraiiK- 
Stone  1).  1855.  April  6;    m.  1880.  Feb.  2.  Olive  M.  Siinuions. 
DUMMER,  Samuel.  For  his  ancestry  see  Nev  England  Historical  and 
UeneahKiiral  Rei/ister,  July.  1881,  pp.  267-8. 
DURRANT.  1.  Johu.  His  widow  m.  Justinian  Holden,  1.  {Records. 
II,  p.  99.) 
b.     BUTTON.  9.  Tlioinas,  removed  to  Westford.  and  there  had  ch.,  *S'i7os 
1789.  Nov.  28  ;    Sarah  b.  1741.  :\Iareh  18. 
ELLIOTT,  (ieorge  P.,  m.  1849.  Jan.  22,  not  1848. 
FARLEY.  }).  Benjamin.  Benjamin  m.  Joanna  Page.  dau.  of  Christo- 
])lier.  :i,  and  had  12  ch.     ilis  later  vears  were  spent  in  Ilollis,  N.  H. 
FARfiER.     9.     Oliver.     His  gr.-son  John  b.  1789. 
22.     HiUmah.     Ouiit  :     She  was  dau.  of  Jolni,  11. 
FASSETT.    3.    Josiali.    Josiah  ni.  Joanna  Page,  dau.  of  Nathaniel,  2. 
FAULKNER.    3.    Luther  W.,  b.  April  12. 
4.     James,     Had  6  ch. 
FITFH.     3.     Benjamin,     //'nn^rr/i  ni.  David  Tai-bell  (see  1). 
FLETCHER.  Add:  4.  (liilman,  l)rother  of  James,  3,  son  of  Jcmas 
and  Hannah  (Hills)  Fletcher,  was  b.  in  Boxford.  1801.  Sept.  10;  m.  1825. 
May  9.  Hannah  Hills,  dau.  of  Philip,  of  Hudson.  N.  IL,  who  d.  1858,  Sept.  23. 
a'4-ed  54.  He  d.  1S74.  Mav  10.  Ch.  :  Hannah  Pebecra  I).  1827.  Sept.  12;  m. 
Addison  H.  Johnson.  1850.  Sept.  10.  He  was  killed  in  the  l)attle  of  Look- 
out ilountain.  1868.  Oct.  81,  and  she  lives  in  Sharon.  Mass.  Marii  Edna  b. 
1880.  July  28;  m.  18(52.  Dec.  31.  Charles  H.  Hinds.  Calvin  Thomas  b.  1832. 
.'\Iarch  10 ;  m.  1861,  Feb.,  Lucy  A.  ChalHn  ;  served  3  yrs.  in  1st  Reg;t.  ^Mass. 
Vols.  Harriet  Maria  b.  1884.  Nov.  16;  m.  1856,  May  21,  Joseph  11.  (irant. 
John  Woodnrd  b.  1837.  Se))t.  26;  m.  1865,  January,  Fanny  Farley;  d.  186(i. 
Ai)ril  30.  of  (Usease  contracted  in  the  army,  where  he  served  in  the  4th 
.Mass.  Batterv.  Laura  Ann  b.  1889.  ,\pril  24  :"(1. 1855.  April  19.  Abb>i  (iihnan 
b.  1841.  ()ct."^7;  tl.  Oct.  29.  Abbn  Clenumtine  b.  1844.  Nov.  17;  ni.  1865, 
Di'c.  6.  Robert  B.  Sattord.  Warren  (iilman  b.  18  Ui,  July  2:  served  in  the 
4tth  :\lass.  Regt.;    m.  1873.  Feb.  12,  Etta  Chii)man. 
 - 562 - 
ADDITIONS    AND    CORRECTIONS.  173 
FOSTER.    14.    Samuel.    JoiK'tltmi  was  not  his  son,  but  son  of  another 
Samuel,  and  Anne.  Foster. 
Add:  20.  Xatliauiel  D.  P.,  <nn  of  Samuel,  of  Chelmsford,  was  h.  in 
Ludlow.  Vt..  1S41.  Fel).  l>;J  :  m.  Mary  F.  .)a<iiiirh,  dau.  of  Fraiddin.  0.  He 
was  the  tirst  enlisted  soldier  from  the  town  in  the  late  war.  CIi..  CorduJin 
A.  b.  1S71.  June  2. 
FRENCH.  1.  William,  had  a  son  Frauds,  ag-ed  10.  in  Kl^r^.  EUsn- 
lirtlib.H'yl'J.  Miinj  Mid  'luliit.   :  omii  ••about."  It  was  il/«;-j/.  not  .SV/ra/t.  wlio 
first  ni.      Sharp. 
FROST.  7.  Samuel.  In  1744.  the  town  paid  l)urial  ehar<i-es  of  .lohn 
Frost,  prob.  son  of  Samuel,  and  aided  his  wido\\  and  child. 
15.  Willhim.  Clarissa  m.  ,h>hn  Clark,  of  Sherborn.  and.  seeond.  H. 
Underwood  :    but  not  Goodwin. 
16.  Benjamin,  m.  Beulah  Hodgman. 
(jrLEASON.  The  periods  should  be  eonnnas  before  •".Joseph."  line  .i, 
and  ••  Isaae."  line  S. 
(tOODWIN.    4.     Cliarles.     Mis  wife  was  not  dau.  of  William  Frost. 
ItRAY.     2.     Braviter.     His  w  ife  was  dau.  of  .Jonathan  Hill.  9. 
H.4.LL.     2.     Samuel.     Hannah  Saunders  was  dau.  of  -lohn.  H. 
HASSELL  was  paid  for  his  Cambridge  claim.  KiTS.  Xov.  2."). 
HAZEN.  Mrs.  llazen  d..  in  Auburndale,  ISSl,  Feb.  8,  aged  47  years 
and  10  days. 
HILL.     8.     Joseph.     Jane  m.  .John  Patten.  10. 
10.     Samuel.     Susanna  m.  .loseph  Patten.  9. 
13.  Joseph,  m.  Anne  Trask.  dau.  of  Nathaniel,  of  Lexington,  and. 
second.  Elizabeth,  her  sister.  The  Kev.  Xathaniel  Trask.  of  Brentwood, 
was  their  brother. 
12  and  14,  Three  marriages  are  reported  of  Abigail  Hill,  to  .Tohn 
Hill.  Joseph  Hildreth.  and  .Joseph  Pollard;  and  this  widow  of  Xathaniel 
is  the  onlj'  Abigail  wlio  appears  in  the  records  of  tlie  period.  To  whom 
she  was  marrieiL  and  who  rhe  other  Abigails  were,  I  can  not  say. 
20.  Solomon,  Jeremiah  lived  in  Boston.  His  dau.  Nancy  French  m. 
Hon.  William  B.  'J'owne,  of  Boston,  and  3Iilford.  N.  H. 
25.  Jonathan.  His  wife  was  dau.  of  Peter  P..  of  Chelmsford,  and  d. 
1847.  ./o«a?/ia»  ni.  Sarah  Brown,  and  lived  in  Boxbury.  Add:  David  B. 
b.  1811,  Sept.  15;   m.  1882.  Dec.  2(i.  Lydia  P.  Hatch:   lives  in  Charle,stown. 
31.     Asa,  m.  Susan  Lawrence,  of  Concord. 
.33.  Brewer.  Add:  Auws  Wright  h.  1826.  Oct.  18;  m.  Helen  Gragg. 
and  had  eh..  Eugene.  Helen.  William,  and  IJa^ih.  Elizabeth  Juliet  h.  18;{8, 
Julv  3;   m.  Joseph  Hurd;   eh.,  Emily  and  Josepliine. 
40.  Charles  H.  Insert:  Charles  Henry  b.  1853.  Feb.  20.  Xathaniel 
was  b.  Aug.  8. 
HOLDEN.  1.  Justinian,  d.  before  1700.  His  second  wife  was  the 
widow  of  .lohn  Durrant.  1. 
2.     Thomas.     Line  0  :     For  Arlington,  read  Boston. 
HOPKINS.  2.  Benjamin,  m.  17-23,  March  27.  Hannah  Wils.m.  dau. 
of  Andrew,  of  Cambridge. 
HUNT.  4.  Jeremiah.  Tliunais  was  prob.  rhe  early  settler  in  Bei-- 
nardstown.  of  which  to^\n  Samuel,  I,  was  a  grantee,  in  leward  of  service 
in  the  ••Falls  Fight"  of  167G.     (See  Drake's   Old  Indian   Chronicle,  p.  21V,).) 
HUSSEY.    "Last  line,  read  1851. 
JAQUITH.     2.     Abraham.     Uannah  b.  April  2S. 
8.     Joseph.      CItristopher  b.  Oct.  .j. 
JUDKIXS.     Foi'  Dembur}^  read  Danburv. 
KIDDKR.     1.     James.     John  m.  1084.  Sept. 
14.  Isaac,  /sartc  m.  ISll.  Lucv  Pratt.  JYuncs,  m.  d..  lived  in  Towns- 
end.  1822-35;    m.  Rachel  Kendall,  of  Milford. 
17.  John,  removed  to  Ilalloweil.  ]\Fe..  and  d.  1814.  Jan.  5.  Kev.  .lames 
II.  Kidder,  of  Owego.  N.  Y..  is  also  his  son. 
KITTREDtxE.     2.    John.     Sarah  Kitlredgc  was  grandmother  of   Han- 
 - 563 - 
174  HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
nah  P«»;icuck.  in  171.).  She  m.iy  luivc  been  a  second  wife  of  Dr.  John 
Kittivdiic 
5.  Joliu.  JoIdi  removed  to  Andover  about  1741,  wliere  he  was  an 
eminent  physician.  His  wife,  perliaps  a  second  wife,  was  named  Elizabeth. 
It  was  his  (icath.  and  nol  tliat  of  liis  son  Benjamin,  wliicli  occurred,  1776, 
July  10. 
{>.     Francis.     Fmncis  m.      Kichardson.  daughter  of  Andrew.  4. 
12.  Daniel.  Xatlianiel  (last  line)  m.  Martha  Dowse,  dau.  of  Benja- 
min. 2. 
17.  Hozekiah.  Ih^zckhih  P.m.  1840.  :Maich  10.  Louisa  VVoodworth, 
of  JiOweJi. 
LEVISTOXE.  4.  Thomas.  U7?/i(?m  hved  in  Henniker.  N.  H.  ;  had 
9ch. 
(J.  Nathaniel.  i»r//  b.  1788.  Xov.  2.  Thomas  b.  1800.  Aug.  16.  Enoch 
b.  1802.  May  ;il.  James  h.  1804.  March  28.  Michad  b.  ISIO.  April  30.  LyeMa 
m.  Micah  Howe,  and  Phebe  m.  Joseph  Marshall. 
MAN.     For  Ann.  read  Sarah. 
MANMN(t.  1.  Samuel,  lived  later  on  the  Chelmsford  Road,  over 
Concord  Kiver.  and  prob.  l)uilt  the  old  garrison-house,  long  known  as  the 
Mantung  Tavern,  and  still  standing  there. 
12.  Solomon,  m.  1789,  Jan.  0.  (^live  French,  of  Hollis. 
18.  Theophilus,  ni.  Hannah  Shed. 
MEERS.     1.     Robert,     //rry/na/^  m.  Benjamin  Dowse.  2. 
2.     Thomas,  m.  Lydia  Carleton.  dau.  of  John.  1. 
3IILLS.     2.     John  R.,  ni.  Emeline  Dowse,  dau.  of  Joseph.  2. 
Insert  :    NURS.     Benjamin,  m.  l)efoie  171."). 
OSGOOD.     1.     Christopher.     Bcnjumui  :   for  1747.  read  1748. 
7.    Phinehas.     D'icid  m.  1828.  Feb.  2. 
is      Insert:  PAINE.  Thomas,  nt  Dedham.  was  giaiited  a  lot  in  lOO.").  and 
occasidnaliy  mentioned  for  a  few  years. 
P.4RKER.  7.  John,  ■•served  under  Sir  Edmund  xVndros.  at  y«  east- 
ward."    (Ldiic  Pdpt'rs.) 
13.  David,  probably  went  to  Churlestown.  (See  Wijman's  No.  36.) 
Aliw  m.  Matthew  Bridge,  of  (harlestown. 
H.  John.  Daniel  is  W>/m<ni's.  No.  37,  and  uidess  there  were  two 
tanners  of  the  same  name  and  time  in  Charlestown.  his  No.  14  is  the  same 
])ei-son  and  not  the  son  of  his  JollU,  11. 
PATTEN.  2.  Thomas.  Mxn/  prob.  m.  1702-;!.  .March  .').  Benjamin 
Cromwell,  of  Charlestown.  son  of  John  ('rom\\<'l!,  the  Dunstable  pioneer. 
(See  pp.  4.")  and  40  above.) 
13.     Asa.     His  wiled.  Fel).  2.5. 
PEACOCK.  2.  Samnel,  was  ••the  nearest  relation'"  of  Hannah,  whose 
gr.-mother  was  Sarah  Kittredge.  perhaps  a  second  wife  of  Dr.  John.  2. 
POLLARD.  1.  Thomas.  Joseph:  the  identity  of  Abigail  Hill,  re- 
l)orted  as  his  wife,  is  not  clear,  and  the  statement  of  the  text  is  doubtful. 
(See  note  above.  HILL,  12  and  14.) 
POULTER.     T>ine  2.  read  Davis. 
RICHARDSON.     5.     Nathaniel.     Joseph  d.  1748. 
ROGERS.  H>.  Hermon.  JnhnF.:  For  Adam,  read  ch.,  and  add  : 
Emery  Hermon  b.  180").  July;  liichard  Lane  b.  1809,  April;  Grace  Dan- 
forth  b.  1871.  July. 
20.     Josiah,  ni.  also  Lucj'  Bancroft,  of  Gioton. 
was  Rl'GtTLES.  2.  Samuel.  Between  1st  and  2d  lines  insert  :  Sanuiel. 
son  of. 
SHED.     4.     Zechary.     For  Angus,  read  Ag)ies. 
SHELDON.  1.  John.  His  wife  was  dau.  of  Edward  Converse,  of 
AN'oburn. 
SPAULDIXtw.     7.     Amos.     Beujumin  J.  d.  some  years  since. 
STEARNS.  S.  Isaac.  :Mrs.  Jesse  G.  D.  Stearns  d.  1881,  Oct.  :n, 
ajred  ('>',i. 
 - 564 - 
ABDITTOXS;    ATSD    COI.'ltKCTIONS.  175 
STICKNEY.     3.     Daiiiel.     Fourth  Ihu'.  for  X.  11..  rcjid  :M:iss. 
TOOTHAKER.  4.  Roger.  Add:  S'mmiPl  jind  Allen  h.  17S4.  Scjit.  2. 
Jtnni's  1)..  in  ^roirimiick.  N.  II..  178(;.  Sept.  5.  Clarissa  b.  ITilO;  ni.  Dciini- 
son  Coats,  and  lived  in  Xcwark,  N.  Y.  Of  tlwso  oil.,  named  here  and  in  the 
text.  I?oyrr  lived  near  Bloomington.  O..  where  he  had  10  eh.,  and  d.  184."). 
Al)ri]  10.  Dr.  67/ rn7'>.s  lived  in  Dorehestei-.  ]\[ass..  and  Weatherstield.  Vt.; 
d.  1850.  Aug.  19.  having-  eh.,  (a)  Charles  Everett  b.  ISO."),  Xoa-.  HO.  a  ))hy.si- 
cian;  (5)  Sanniel  Allen  b.  1807.  Xov.  0.  a  phvsieian.  residing-  in  I.vnn:  (c) 
Sarah  Eunice  b.  1810.  .Vug.  ;^.  in  Weatherstield;  (d)  Samuel  Closely  b.  181.-5, 
Aug.  11 ;  d.  1816.  Aug.  14;  (f)  llari-ict  Newell  b.  181  (!.  Sept.  4  ;  (/)  Fanny 
Bowman  b.  1818,  Sept.  13 ;  (ry)  James  Sndley  b.  182;j.  Ai)ril  2G.  SamveL 
AlUn,  and  James  went  to  ITyde  Park.  Vt..  with  their  father,  in  ISIO.  and 
had  large  families  there. 
TUFTS.     5.     Call,  m.  Marv  Sanders,  dau.  of  IJenjandn.  13. 
WHITFORI).     William,  m".  Sarah  Baeon.  of  IJedt'ord. 
WHlTIN(i.     2.     Saiimel.     For  Marll)oroug-h.  read  IJraintree. 
WINNIN(x.     2;    .John.     Z?(C2/  m.  Asa  Cram.     (See  .) 
WYMAN.     3.     Increase.     Hiswidowni.EbenezerRichardson.il. 
 - 565 - 
 - 566 - 
Index  to  Genealogical  Register, 
This  Index  includes  Names  not  found  or  referred  to  in  their  Alphabetical 
PLACE   IN   the   KEGISTKR.       SLIGHT    VARIATIONS  OF  NAMES    PROBABLY  OF  THE 
SAME   ORIGIN,  ARE  REFERRED   TO    l!NI>ER  THE   ONE   MORE   COMMON  FORM. 
Abbot,  Betty,  70. 
Uorothy,  04.     Elizabeth,  1)5. 
JKphraiin,  70,  157.    John,  2:}, 
118,  158. 
Mary,  S'2,  85.     Mercy,  23. 
Moses,  7M,  141.    Obed,  Ul. 
Oliver,  .58.    .Samuel,  12. 
Sarah,  liO,  141.     Rev.  Sere- 
no  T.,  7H. 
Thomas,  5(),  82.    Uriah,  140. 
Adams,    ,  
28,  8!),  167. 
George,  77.    Hannah,  11.3. 
Jonas,  13o.    Joseph,  154. 
Mary,  23.    Nathan,  03. 
Rebecca.  45.    M  rs.  Sarah  R., 
50      William,  144. 
Ale.xanukk,  Jonathan,  UO. 
Joseph,  101. 
Alger,  Cvrus,  120. 
Olivia,  120. 
Allen,  Abigail,  44. 
Andrew,  22,  150.     Faith,  22. 
Hannah,  22.     John,  22. 
Malachi,  20.     Martha,  22. 
Mary,  150.    Nancy,  44. 
Samuel,  71. 
Alpaugh,  Abram  M.,  87. 
Ajies,  Robert,  03. 
Andrews,  Abraham.  141. 
Kliza,  110.     Lucy,  05. 
Solomon,  132. 
Ann  ABLE,  Samuel  L.,  100. 
Sarah,  100. 
Atherton,  Henry  B.,  123. 
Humphrey,  123. 
Jonathan,  123.    Joseph,  123. 
Atkinson,  Hannah,  00. 
Thomas,  90. 
Atwood,  Evelyn,  52. 
Austin,  Francis  B.,  101. 
Lucy  J.,  101.     William,  144. 
AvERV,  Ebenezer,  34. 
John,  88.     Mary,  88. 
Robert,  88.     William,  88. 
IJabbitt,    i  
41. 
Hachiler,  Theudate,  77. 
Rev.  Stephen,  77. 
Bacon,  Abigail,  60,  121. 
Eliza,  154.     Elizabeth,  118. 
Hannah,  121.    John,  121. 
Sally,  li:;.     Sarah,  175. 
Susan.  72.     'l'h(.)iiias,  41. 
I5ad(;i:k,  Ruth,  102. 
Susannah,  115. 
Bailev,    .     127. 
Abigail,  31.     Isaac,  01. 
Jonathan,  7.    Sanmel,  117. 
B.XKER,  Joseph,  70. 
Mary,  78.     Susan,  120. 
Balch,  Betsey,  40. 
Francis  V.,  101. 
B.iLDWiN,  Abel,  58. 
Benjamin,  57.     Daniel,  154. 
Ezra,  10.    Jacob,  91. 
John  F.,  121.     Jonathan, 
10,  50.     Lydia,  27. 
Reuben,  CO.     Rhoda,  27,  02. 
Rizpah,  51.    Sarah,  55,  00. 
Susannah, 2.  Timothy,  10,08 
Balkam,  Mary,  8. 
Ballard.    ,  
137. 
Dorcas,  102.     Hannah,  2. 
Hezekiah,  39.   Jonathan,  82. 
Mary,  172.    Rebecca.  70. 
Sarah,  S3. 
Ballister,  Mary,  120. 
Ballon,  Olive,  10. 
Bancroft,  Dr.  Amos,  157. 
Banc;e,  Margaret,  107. 
Barker,  Hiram  P.,  06. 
Lucy  L.,  101. 
Barnard,  Samuel,  83. 
Barnes,  Eliza,  144. 
William,  107. 
Bark,  Andrew,  110. 
Barrett,  Dr.  Amasa,  .30. 
Oeorgp,  120. 
Hannah,  14.    Stephen,  84. 
B.VRRON,  Eliseus,  79. 
Elizabeth,  58. 
Samuel,  140.    Sarah,  131. 
Bartlett,  Erastus  A.,  05. 
Barton,  Jabez  ^Y.,  125. 
Batchelder,  I'hebe,  119. 
Batcheller,  Joseph,  152. 
Warren  M.,  41. 
Bateman,  Martha,  40. 
Thomas,  51. 
Bates,  Mwry,  5. 
Bean,  William,  02. 
Beard,  Benj.  F.,  04. 
Belcher,  Nathaniel,  42. 
Belknap,  Rebecca,  84. 
Samuel,  140. 
Bell,  John,  54. 
Bemis,  Frederic,  80. 
Ben.iamin,  Mercy,  09. 
Bennett,  Edward,  120. 
Kezia,  7.    Sarah,  91. 
Susan,  63. 
BiBBE,  Elizabeth,  108. 
Bkjelow,  Elizabeth,  139. 
John,  99,  139. 
Mira  A.,  99.    Timothy,  02. 
BiGSBY,  Joseph,  62. 
Billings,  John,  142. 
Bingham,    ,  
93. 
Bird,  Elizabeth,  120. 
Births,  Christian,  47. 
Hannah,  78. 
Blaisdell,  Lydia,  04. 
Blake,  Oliver  W.,  102. 
Blanchard,  Anna,  30. 
David,  02.    Elizabeth,  05. 
George,  (io.     Henry,  31,  55. 
Mehittabel,  100. 
Mrs.  Nancy  (M''arren)  136. 
Sylvanus,  59. 
Bliss,  Levi,  124. 
Mary  E.,  107. 
Blodgktt,  Elizabeth,  09. 
Josiah,  42.     Mary,  03. 
Samuel  S.,  125.    Sarah,  105. 
Blood,  Betty,  30. 
James,  40.    Josiah,  48. 
Rev.  Mighill,  41. 
Blunt,  Marv,  04. 
Boardm  an, "Martha,  103. 
Bock,  .leniiue,  72. 
BoHoNAX,  William  B.,  4. 
Boies,  Stillmau,  101. 
Bolton,  George,  42. 
Bond,  Elias,  39. 
Jonathan,  39.    Joseph,  40. 
Bonner,  Elizabeth,  KH. 
Boswokth,  Elizabeth,  17. 
Bovvers,  Arthur  E.,  59. 
Elizabeth,  61.  Jerahmell,  48. 
Johu,  28.     Philip,  84. 
Sally,  59.     William,  83. 
Bowman,  John,  58. 
BOYDEN,  Horatio,  138. 
BovNTON,  Dorcas,  02. 
Elizabeth  Ann,  0. 
Richard,  2.     Sarah,  118. 
Bradford,  George,  65. 
Bradley,  Joseph,  15. 
Louisa,  10. 
Bray,  Mrs.  Ann,  .30. 
Breck,  Sarah  E.,  75. 
Breed,  James,  106. 
Bridge,  Col.  Ebenezer,  l.'iO. 
Rev.  Ebenezer,  33. 
Matthew,  174.     Sarah,  33. 
Brigc^s,  Mrs.  Margaret  L.  33. 
Brigham,  Annie  P.,  78. 
Joshna  B.,  02. 
Brixton,  Samuel,  74. 
Brooks,  Joseph,  43. 
Brown,  Ann  S.,  Kil. 
Anne,  72.     Calista,  144. 
Charlotte,  102.  David  W.  98. 
Dinah,  70.     Dorothv,  27. 
Elizabeth,  51, 130.  Ellen,  110. 
Esther,  165.     John,  155. 
],ydia,  8.     Margaret,  54. 
Martha,  122. 
Sarah,  13,  28,  1()5,  173. 
Susannah,  59,  101. 
Thaddeus,  32.  Thankful,  23. 
Bryant,  INlary  E.,  107. 
Nathan,  107. 
Bi(  K,  Abbie.  20. 
Asa,  20.    Deborah,  10. 
Jonathan,  04.    Sewell,  63. 
BULLARD,  Benjamin,  46. 
Sibbel,  1.32. 
BULLEN,  Samuel,  19. 
BURBANK,  Samuel,  125. 
 - 567 - 
178                           HISTORY   OF    BILLERICA. 
JUkchstkad,    ,  
150. 
IJruoK,  David,  l.!l. 
Kliziibc'th,  lar.   Hannah,  45. 
.iDsiah,  i:f7.  Hiitli,  112. 
15[  KNAP,  Estlier  V.,  KiG. 
r.riixiiA.M,  I'rof.  Clias.  G.,  01. 
William,  01. 
liri;iiAi:K,  Hannah,  '.)0. 
.lohii,  110.     Mai-y,  '.10. 
UuuitiDGK,  Hannah,  50. 
John,  aC). 
BiRT,  .Ann  J.,  1:5. 
Jedidiali,  100. 
Sally,  10.     Thomas,  19. 
ISrsiiisv,  .Vsa,  :i. 
Hi  luy,  :i. 
Jii'ssicv,  I.saiah,  105. 
lU  TLlci;,  Gen.  15.  F.,  147. 
C'has.  K.,  150.     (ieo.  B.,  150. 
.laint'S,  44.    Joseph,  83. 
Lydia,  15J.     Jlary,  44. 
Samnel,  71. 
l5uTTi<:i;r-n;Li),  Joseph,  144. 
."^arah,  :{7,  94. 
lii  TTKU.s,  Fanny,  20. 
Kebeeca,  10.    keuben,  10. 
CALinvELL,  Adam,  62. 
Call,  Martha,  73. 
Thomas,  1.39. 
Calle.ndek,  Ann  L.,  55. 
Cajipbell,  William,  160. 
Campble,  Thomas,  39. 
Capen,  r.ouisa,  14. 
Cakey,  Emeline,  144. 
CarivIN,  Hannah,  44. 
Carleton,  William,  90. 
Carpe.xter,  Celinda,  72. 
Caer,  Walter,  148. 
Caerell,  Samuel,  79. 
Cartek,  George,  54,  si. 
Jabez,  93.    Jolin,  127. 
Moses,  127.    Oliver,  98. 
Gary,  Thomas  G.,  100. 
Case,    ,  
93.    Anna,  66. 
Chaffix,  Lucy  H.,  172. 
Chalwkll,  George  M.,  102. 
Cii.\3iiiERLiN,  Abigail,  112. 
Lydia,  129.    Mary,  06. 
Susannah,  7. 
Thomas,  35,  101. 
(^H.VMP.NEY,  Mrs.  Joanna,  98. 
John,  98.    Louisa,  5i. 
]Marv,  ,"il,  r>(>. 
Elder  Uichard,  35,  56. 
Chandler,  Kllener,  15.3. 
John,  95, 120.  Philemon,  120. 
Silas,  19. 
CiiAr.MAN,  Clarissa.  87. 
John,  23.    Martha,  60,  119. 
Nancy  A.,  40. 
Chase.'  Annie  P.,  07. 
Eiio<'li,  22.     Harriet,  .30. 
Moses.  07.     Sally,  22. 
Stephen,  30. 
CiiEKVKR,  James,  1()2. 
John,  l.'i3.    Nathaniel,  120. 
Chester,  Dorcas,  156. 
Leonard, 156.  Mrs.  Mary,  150. 
Child,  John,  56.  Joshua,  140. 
Chipman,  Etta,  172. 
Chisholm,    ,  
5. 
CHP.1STE,  Margaret,  97. 
Clark,  Abigail,  10,  80. 
Betlniel,  107.     Frances,  24. 
John,  173.    Lucinda,  44. 
Mary,  1.30.    Polly,  92. 
Rebecfa,  11.    Sarah,  91. 
Uev.  Thomas,  150.    William 
C,  78. 
Clement,  Rachel,  12. 
llufus,  4. 
Clevi-.lanI),  Anne,  is 
Clewly,  William  J.,  05. 
Cloyes,  .)ohn,  123. 
Martha,  123. 
Coats,  Dennison,  175. 
Cobb.  Catherine  E.,  105. 
Hattie  G.,  144.    Nath'l,  105. 
Sally,  142.     Samuel  P.,  S4. 
CoBTRN,  Paulina  A.,  11. 
Rebecca,  105.     Rhoda,  19. 
Coffin,  Lucy  (;.,  4. 
Lydia  C,  77.    Tristram,  77. 
CoocilN,  Abigail,  ,50. 
Henry,  .50.     .Jacob,  87. 
Joseph,  74,  107. 
Mrs.  John,  ss. 
CoLBURN,  Pliineas,  100. 
Colby,  Homer  H.,  122. 
Cole,  Marv,  61. 
Thaddeus,  72. 
CoLsox,  Israel  A.,  51. 
Sullivan,  98. 
CoLWELL,— ,  
104.  Jennie,  105. 
Conant,  Eli,  -Jo. 
Lydia,  45.    Sarah,  45. 
CONELLA,  Anna,  .37. 
CoxRAY,  John,  48. 
Converse,  Capt.  Edmund, 
103,174.  Mrs.  Esther  C,  35, 
Josiah,  35.     Mary,  ,50. 
Olivia  A.,  141.    Sarah,  45. 
Cook,  Abigail,  48. 
CooLiDOE,  Simon,  122. 
Cooper,  Rev.  Mr.,  171. 
Corey,  Eunice,  78. 
Jacob,  105. 
Mary,  105.     Priscilla,  128. 
COSTELLO,    ,  
81. 
Cow  DRY,  Nathaniel,  105. 
Coyt.more,  Thomas,  88. 
Craig,  Thomas,  7. 
Cra:\i,  James,  20. 
Jonathan,  23.     Joseph,  20. 
Cranch,  Elizabeth,  101. 
Cromwell,  Mary,  174. 
Crosby,  Betsey,  172. 
George,  63.     John,  172. 
Joseph,  17.    Mary,  142. 
Michael,  63.    Rebecca,  88. 
Crosett,  Susan,  121. 
Cross,  Nathan,  90. 
CUMIXGS,  Asenath,  120. 
Rev.  Dr.  Henry,  11,  59. 
Lucy,  120.     Nathaniel,  7,  .30. 
Sarah,  .30.  Rev.  Seneca,  141. 
Currier,    ,  
31. 
Curtis,  Mrs.  Mary,  57. 
CusHiNfJ,  Leonard,  3. 
Cutler,  Abijah,  .30. 
Charles,  105.    Josiah,  10. 
Mrs.Lvdia,  102.  Mary  L.,  144. 
Nath'l,  9.     Rev.  Robert,  28. 
Silas,  03.    Solomon,  103. 
CUTTlNti,  Mary,  117. 
Susan,  92. 
Da  LAND,  Benjamin,  55. 
Damon,  James,  ,55. 
Daxa,  Dr.  F.,  24. 
Capt.  George  Hazen.  24. 
Hon.  Judah,  63.     JIaria,  03. 
Dane,  Rebecca,  20. 
Daxforth,  Anne,  90. 
Hannah,  125.     John,  101. 
Jonathan,  51.  Sam'l  A.,  171. 
Daniel,  Richard,  41. 
Daniels,    ,  so. 
Davidson,  Jane,  21. 
Davis,  Betsey,  3. 
Daniel,  lis.     Ebenezer,  57. 
Elizabeth,  57.     Epliraim.  3(>. 
Estella  J.,  89.     Hannali,  2i;, 
102. 
Rev.  Joel.  38.     John,  14:>. 
•loseph,  102.     Loruhania,  71. 
Lucinda,  141.     Lydia,  141. 
Rachel,  so.     Ruliamali,  7. 
Susanna,  72.  Mrs.  Susanna. 
Thaddeus,  lis.     141. 
Dawes,  Priscilla,  112. 
Dfan.  Hon.  Benjamin.  5  i. 
Eliza,  120.     John,  149. 
Michael,  107.     Susaima,  120. 
DrcARBORX,  Leocade,  00. 
DeC.v.mp,  .lohn,  72. 
Demfrcy,  John,  72. 
Denisox,  Edward,  149. 
Mary,  149. 
Dennis,  Uev.  Rodney  G..  106. 
Derby,    ,  121. 
DiCK.vsoN,  Sarah,  149. 
Dickey,  Lucv  J-,  07. 
DiLNo,    ,146. 
DiTSON,  Sarah,  59,  lOS. 
Thomas,  .59. 
Dix,  Clarissa,  122. 
Nancy,  98.    Sanmel,  91. 
Dod(;e,  Daniel,  11(>. 
.    Mary  L.,  107. 
Minerva  E.,  116. 
Robert,  l(i5.    Susan,  3. 
Douglass,  James,  129. 
Dow.sE,  Dorothy,  82. 
Draper,  Mrs.  Rebecca,  45. 
Drew,  Charles  A.,  98. 
Driver,  Rebecca  J.,  103. 
Dudley,  Silas,  I3(i. 
Gov.  Thomas,  127. 
DULGAR,  Hannah,  102. 
DUMMER,  Samuel,  127. 
DuNcKLEE,  Nathaniel,  13,'50. 
Ruth,  13. 
DuNKIN,  John,  78,  45. 
Judith,  37. 
DuNSTER,  Elizabeth,  14. 
Pres.  Henry,  14,  117,  160. 
DUNTON,  Anne,  4S. 
Nathaniel,  117. 
Samuel,  01.    Sarah,  01. 
DUREN,  Asa,  143. 
Emilv.  00.    Samuel  A.,  l.!6. 
William,  130. 
DuRiCK,  Mary,  34. 
DuRRENT,  John,  100. 
Dutch,  Mary,  43. 
DUTTON,  - —  ,  
28. 
Edward  P.,  40.    George,  78. 
John,  01.     Lvdia  A.,  55. 
Marv  L.,  72.  "  
Mehitable,  29, 
87."  / 
Eames,  James  H.,  9. 
John,  10,  20.    Joshua,  135. 
Sarah,  10.    Thomas,  101., 
Early,  Silas,  153,  100. 
Easte,  Benjamin,  48. 
Eastman,  John,  145. 
IMary,  21. 
E.isrv,  Mary  Ann,  137. 
Eaton,  Martha  C,  67. 
Rebecca,  149. 
Edks,  John,  118. 
Edwards,  L.  M.,  41. 
Sally,  102. 
Elder,  Mrs.  L.  C,  137. 
Eliot,  Francis,  114. 
Rachel,  114. 
ELLENWOOU,    ,  
88. 
 - 568 - 
INDEX    TO    GENEALOGICAL    REGLSTER.                  179 
Ellick.  Joseph,  17. 
Ruth,  IT. 
Ellis,  Eleuzer,  27. 
Hannah.  2.     Mrs.  Mary,  19. 
Emkky,  Frances  L.,  Ii5. 
EjlKKsoN,  Asa,  lil. 
Eliza,  20.    Joseph.  lOS. 
Mary.  51. 
EMJiq">".s,  Itev.  Henry,  KJl. 
EsT.MJROOKS,  Mrs.  Anna  1!., 
14:i.     Hannah,  (il. 
.John,  Uri.    Joseph.  42. 
EvKRETT,  Ichabod,  ll:i,  137. 
Farley,  Elizabeth,  iiO. 
F.VRJIER,  Jared,  14.5. 
I'esgy,  12(1. 
Earxswoktu,  Elizabeth,  7!i. 
Lucy,  '.'4. 
Faknum,  a.  I)..  171. 
Ella  C,  137.     JMilliseut.  17. 
F.VKWELL,  Hannali,  .'.:!. 
Henry,  33.    Jonathan,  12. 
Samuel,  172. 
Fasseit,  Mrs.  Amittia,  103. 
Joseph,  103. 
Fav,  Dr.  Jonas,  52. 
Felch,  Ebenezer   l.JO. 
Fellows,  Tlieophilus  B.,  121 
Feltox,  Levi,  3. 
Ferrin,  Bailey,  88. 
Fesskndk.n,  Abigail,  70. 
Hannah,  .50.     Samuel,  70. 
Field,  Bohan  P.,  31'. 
Rev.  Georg-  W.,  3!i. 
Mary  E.,  100. 
FlFlKI.D,  Moses,  91. 
Fisher,    ,  
95. 
FiSKE,    ,  
20. 
Rev.  Abel,  7(i.    Almira,  60. 
Ebenezer,  02.     Natluin,  141 
I'rof.  Nathan  W.,  141. 
Sarah,  0(). 
Fitch,  Joel,  72. 
Moses,  141.    Paul,  77. 
Polly,  131.    Samuel,  .*•?<. 
Flacig,  Eunice,  0(5. 
Mary,  10. 
FLE.AiixG,  Jlary,  128. 
Flethher,  Daniel,  81. 
Ebenezer,  140.     George  A., 
79.     John,  44.     Marv,  00. 
Patty,  131.    Thankful,  131. 
Flint,    ,  
50. 
Eli,  83.     George,  20. 
Hannah,  70.    Simeon,  114. 
Floyd,  Carrie  D.,  1.52. 
FOLL.VNSBEE,  Eliza,  99. 
FoLSoif,  Frederic,  UHi. 
FoOTE,  George  H.,  139. 
FORBL'SH,  Sarah,  23. 
ForCtISox,  Marv,  97. 
FOSDICK,  David,  134. 
Foster,  Abial,  158. 
Abigail,  48.    .Abraham,  62. 
Amos,  .5S.     Apphia  C,  72 
Benjamin,  10.  Elizabeth,  51 
Enoch.  148.     Ezra  T.,  145. 
Hannah,  108.    James,  89. 
Joseph.  42.     Mary,  103. 
Moses,  S.  25.  Nath'l  D.  P., 
Sarah,  80.  ISIrs.  Sarah  P.,  1 
Thomas,  17,  01.  William.  9: 
FowLE,  Samuel,  9. 
Sarah,  85. 
Fowler,  Harriet,  80. 
Fox,  Abel,  30. 
Abigail,  3C. 
Isaac,  101.     Warren,  122 
Fr.\xces,  John,  01. 
Fraxksfokd,  Margaret,  50. 
Freemax,  Elizabeth,  41. 
Rebecca,  10. 
French,  Abigail,  150. 
Anna,  01.     Benjamin,  70. 
Dorcas,  50.     Elizabeth,  19. 
-Tolm,  57,  120.     Joseph,  13S. 
Nathaniel,  19.    Nicholas,  50. 
Olive,  173.     Sally,  42. 
Tiniothv,  10  >. 
Frost,  ^—,  7,  104. 
Asa,  151.     Betsey,  114. 
Ebenezer,  152.  Edmond,  57. 
Hannah,  Itti.     .foseph,  01. 
Rachel,  25.     William,  57. 
Fhi)TH1XGIia!\i,  Henry  K.,  13. 
Richard,  13. 
FnYK,  .lolin,  7. 
ISIary,  8,  31.  Nathan  W.,  121. 
Susanna,  141. 
Fuller,  Rebecca,  25. 
Robert,  1,5. 
Gaoe,    ,  
88. 
GALHir,  Capt.  Samuel,  117. 
(iARDXER,  Esther,  103. 
Thomas,  103. 
Gary,  Josiah,  137. 
•  Gaskkll,  Libbeus,  6. 
Phebe  J.,  0. 
G.^TES,  Jonathan,  131. 
Geary,  Marv,  79. 
Gerrish,  Dr.  Charles  H.,  99. 
Moses,  50.     Susan,  50. 
GiBSOX,  Elizabeth,  20,  130. 
(ilLES,  Elizabeth,  5. 
GlLSox,  Elizabeth,  29. 
Susanna,  80. 
Gl'easox,  Jonas,  37. 
Gloy'D,  Polly,  31. 
Godfrey,  Hannah,  3. 
Sarah,  48. 
GOIXG,  Mary,  12. 
Gold,  Sarah,  98. 
(ioLDSMiTii,  Jeremiah,  63. 
Goodhue,  Joseph,  31. 
Zechariah,  150. 
GooDNOw,  Mary,  108. 
Goodrich,  Priscilla,  15. 
Sally,  3. 
GooiAVTX,  Barbara,  121. 
Betsey,  11.     Lucy,  32. 
Lydia,  92.    Nathaniel,  92. 
Reuel,  11.  Thomas,  .58. 
GOOKIX,  Daniel,  127',  150. 
GoRllAJi,  Charles  E.,  21. 
Eliza.  121. 
GttRRELL,  John,  39. 
Gorton,  Alee,  54. 
Goss,  Jonathan,  117. 
Gould,  Augustus  A.,  44. 
Chas.  D.,  44.    Elizabeth,  44 
Jacob,  127.    Joanna,  .'=4. 
Lewis,  .33.     Lydia,  44. 
Margaret,  23.    JNIary,  44. 
Nathaniel,  44. 
).  Gove,  Sophronia,  5. 
GoAVEN,  Ann,  92. 
William,  92. 
Graog,  George  W.,  25. 
?.     Helen,  173.     Oliver,  171. 
.  Granger,  Mary,  05. 
'2.  Grant,  Joseph' H.,  172. 
Graves,  Abraham,  01. 
Gray,  Bridget,  114. 
John,  81.    Lucy,  81. 
GliEKX',  Rev.  Archelaus,  103. 
Charlotte  E.,  07.  George  B.,  07 
Joseph  AV.,  93.     Sam'l,  150. 
Solomon.  103.     William,  49. 
Greexlaxd,  Stephen,  ICO. 
Greenlaw,  Marv,  102. 
Grkigs,  Sarah,  si'. 
Grime.s,  Marv,  14,  102. 
Sarah,  41,  ,53. 
Grover,  Benjamin,  5. 
Thomas,  5. 
Gku.sh,  -Alichael,  113. 
(iURXEV,  John,  130. 
Hadley,  Belinda  P.,  72. 
.Samuel  P.,  72. 
Haggitt,  Amos,  103,  134. 
Mary,  124. 
Hale,  Isaac,  137.  William,  92. 
Haley,  Sarah,  12n. 
Hall,  Abigail,  2,  144. 
Annie,  157.     Grace,  157. 
Joanna,  108.     Pereival,  103. 
Sam'l,  103.  Stephen,  157,  10.3. 
Rev.  Willard,  2,  157. 
Winslow,  103. 
Haiiiltox,    ,  
3. 
Hamlet,  .)oseph,43. 
William,  24. 
Haxaford,  Mehi'able,  92. 
H.VNCOCK,  [John],  107. 
HARl>lN(i,  Alice  R.,  05. 
H.vrdy,  Isaac  M.,  105. 
Lucy,  97.     Phebe,  101. 
H  ARXDEX,  Joshua,  20. 
Harper,  Joseph  W.,  40. 
Harrington,  Caroline  F.,  9. 
Hiram,  20.     Zadoc,9. 
Harris,  Deborah  T.,  92. 
Hannah,  1.30.  Richard  T.  101. 
Harroi).  Noah,  1.33. 
Hart,  Henry,  13,3,  102. 
Hartwell,"   ,  
Betsey,  31.  Rev.  127. 
Charles,  141. 
John,  09.     Mary,  03,  09. 
Nancy,  84.     Sarah,  104. 
Susan,  17.     William,  09,  104. 
Harvey,  Abigail,  3. 
Harwood,  .James,  129. 
Haskell,  Ellas,  >-'i. 
Elizabeth,  128.  Rebecca,  102. 
Hastings,  Elizabeth,  97. 
John,  98.    Nathaniel,  .38. 
Patty,  128. 
Hatch,  Lydia  P.,  173. 
Hawes,  Lydia,  43. 
Hawthorne,  Nathaniel,  110. 
Haydkn,  Isabella  W.,  147. 
Joel,  147.     Sarah,  1.33. 
H.VYNES,  Lavinia  B.,  143. 
Hayward,  Elizabeth,  79. 
Nathaniel,  lis. 
Hazeltine,  Abigail,  70. 
Amv,  117.    Anna,  145. 
David,  70.     Oliver,  10. 
.      Samuel,  79,  105.  Tahatha,  l(i5. 
He.vld,  Benjamin  H.,  10. 
Jonathan,  58. 
Henchman,  Nathaniel,  29. 
Henky,  Agnes,  51. 
Hextz,  Prof.  N.  M.,  158. 
Hehrick,  Benjamin,  83. 
Heywood.    ,  
.Sj. 
Benjamin,  S2.    John,  6. 
Joseph,  03.  Rev.  Joshua,  59. 
Mary,  82.     Ruth,  S3. 
Sarah,  6,  94.     Simeon,  35. 
HicKEL,  William,  14. 
HiLDRETH,  Elijah,  24. 
Joseph,  70. 
Hill,  David,  31. 
Hev.  Ebenezer,  141. 
Elizabeth,  31.    Jo.siah,  2.3. 
Lydia,  31.     Capt.  Ralph,  94. 
 - 569 - 
180                           HISTORY    OF    BILLEKICA, 
II ILLS,  Hannah,  17:.'. 
Hilton',  Klizubetli,  55. 
HlN(  KLV,  ICphrsiini,  1~1. 
Hinds.  Clmrles  H.,  17'2. 
.John,  21. 
HixsuN,    ,  
5:!. 
Ho  HART,  James,  :!.'{. 
Kev.  James,  .Xi. 
Mary,  IhS.  Sally,  92. 
HonsoN,  .Jeremiah,  31. 
HoU(}.MAN,  Abijah,  i2,  138. 
Beulah,  173. 
HoLBKooK,  lion.  Adin,  143. 
Elenor,  IC.l.     Mary  A.,  143. 
HoLDicx,  Abigail,  153. 
C.  \V.,  I'^l.    Jolin,  103. 
Martha,  133.     William,  133. 
Holm  AN,  Sarah,  101. 
Seeth,  1-J().     Gen.  Silas,  101. 
William,  VZG. 
HOL.MKS,  Isaac,  174. 
Holt,  Hannah,  (W. 
James,  22.     Marv,  01. 
Mehitable,  2.    Molly,  13. 
Paul,  51.     Rachel,  152. 
Samuel,  22. 
Holton,  John  K.,  128. 
HoMKK,  William,  (')3. 
Homi:s,  Elizabeth,  03. 
Robert,  0<.». 
HooKEU,  Kev.  Thomas,  15;i. 
HoopEK,  Elizabeth,  151. 
Mrs.  lluth,45.  Wm.,45,  151. 
HOSLEY,     ,  
18. 
HosjiiiR,  Amos,  31. 
HocrsLEV,  Harriet,  130. 
HovEV,  John,  3,  83. 
Rachel,  3.    Susanna,  71. 
Howard,    ,  
128. 
Edwin,  52.     Horace,  121. 
Joseph,  03.     Martha,  '.>4. 
Mary,  '.)4.    Nathaniel,  01. 
Thomas,  27,    Ziba,  140. 
Howe,    ,  
91. 
Elizabeth  R.,  IG.  George,  10. 
Jonathan,  142.     Marv,  125. 
Jlicah,  174.    Rev.  Nath'l,  '.)0. 
Howlett,  Sarah,  .'*>2. 
Tlionias,  32. 
HoYT,  Dolly  B.,  121. 
HUBBAKD,  Sarah,  24,  GO. 
HUDDLESTON,  Harriet,  10. 
HriT,  Elizabeth,  75. 
Hi'Mi'HiticY,  Hannah,  105. 
Moses,  105. 
HuNXEWELL,  Hannah  F.,  16. 
Hunt,  James  G.,  135. 
Marv,  155.    Reuben,  105,  135. 
Ruth,  105. 
HusE,  David,  31. 
HuTCHiNs,  John  C,  120. 
Lucy  i.,  03.     Maria  A.,  42. 
Susan  M.,  120. 
HuTcillN.sON,  Elizabeth,  142. 
James,  110.     Levi  W.,  141. 
Nathan,  140.  Sarah,  124,  134. 
Hyde,  Jonathan,  82. 
William,  90. 
Ince,  Rev.  .James,  100. 
Ingalls,  Tabitha,  80. 
iNGEltSOLL,  George  W.,  1.30. 
In(jles,  James,  14. 
Ireland,  Abigail,  1.31. 
.Ta(;<»,  Deborah,  23. 
.Jacques,  Abby  E.,  110. 
James,  13.    ramelia,  122. 
Sally,  134. 
Janes,  Esther,  14. 
J.VQUiSH,  Elizabeth,  43. 
.lAiH'iTir,  Abigail,  31. 
Abraham,  43,  00.     Andrew, 
119.    Caroline,  100. 
Ebenezer,  .30,  157. 
Ilunuali,  39.     Isaac,  15:'.. 
.lames,  ll.s.     .lolm,  KiO. 
flonathaii.  13,s.  Lncretia,  20. 
Mrs.  Mary,  (Ui.     Nathan,  .30. 
Nathaniel,  i>0.     Rebecca,  10. 
Samuel,  lis.     Sarah,  43. 
Tamison,  119. 
Jefts,  Hannah,  47. 
Je.vkins,  Lydia,  10. 
Nabby,  83.'    Samuel,  13G. 
Jennlson,  Lucy,  05. 
Jewell,  Lewis,  04. 
Jewett,  Edward,  49. 
Joseph,  128.    Tolly,  102. 
Stephen,  33. 
Jocko w,  Julius,  25. 
Johnson,    ,  
20. 
Abigail,  49.  Addison  K.,  172. 
,Ann  W.,  71.    Benjamin,  1.53. 
Catherinf',27,  107.  (_'yrus,  27. 
Daniel,  113.     Ebenezer,  140. 
Edward,  49, 140.  Eleanor,  58. 
Elissa,  27.     Emma  L.,  100. 
Esther,  140. 
Ezra,  12.     Henry  C,  1.54. 
Joanna,  134.     Joseph  0,,  75. 
Lewis,  .5.     Lucv,  72. 
Lvdia,  121.     Marv.  24,  82. 
Ruth,  83.     Thonuis,  ilO. 
Susanna,  23.  William,  49, 119 
Jones,  Ebenezer,  149. 
Elizabeth,  52.   John  A.,  144. 
.Jonathan,  74.    .Joseph,  119. 
Marv,  70.     Nabbv,  141. 
I'hebe,  10.     Polly,  141. 
Jordan,  Rev.  Larkin  L.,  01. 
JUDSON,  Mrs.  Hannah  T.,  102. 
Dr.  W^alter  P.  B.,  102. 
Karkin,  Asa,  73. 
Keasberry,  Rev.  Beiij.,  100. 
IvEM.MEL,  Hesta  B.,  144. 
Kemp,  Abigail,  10. 
Kendall.  Charlotte,  144. 
Rachel,  173.    William,  100. 
Kendkick,  Elijah,  01. 
Kennedy,  Nancy,  88. 
Kent,  Isaac,  21. 
Kettle,  Nathaniel,  82. 
Rachel.  28. 
Keyes,  Abner,  132. 
Joseph,  05. 
Lydia,  05.  Mary,  101. 
Kibbek,  Elizabeth,  108. 
Kidder,  Mrs.  Joanna  K.,  .53. 
Phineas,  29.     Ruth,  8. 
Tliomas,  53. 
Kimball,  Andrew,  72. 
Elizabeth,  89.    John  S.,  40. 
Sarah,  .54,  110. 
King,  Ebenezer,  03. 
Elizabeth,  101. 
KlN(lSBURY,  Amos,  119. 
Eliza,  120.     Henry,  105. 
Kinney,  George  E.  S.,  166. 
Kittredge,  Isaac,  124. 
Job,  125.     Lucy,  30. 
Knapp,  Daniel  L.,  t)6. 
.Jonathan,  2ti. 
Knowles,  John,  100. 
Labaree,  Rev.  Benjamiii,  115. 
Lake,  Cynthia,  70. 
Lambert,  Ann,  33. 
Elizabeth,  3.3.  » 
Mary,  83.    Thomas,  33. 
Lamon,  .John,  115. 
Lane,  Henjami'n,  7'>.  11.3. 
.lames.  49.     .lob.  145. 
.Iiihn,  91.     .luiiathaji,  142. 
Lois  E.,  171.     I^uke,  30. 
Marv,  7(1,  1)2.     Roger,  5. 
Ruhainah,  1(»  ;.     Sally.  14.3. 
Samuel,  5s,  142.     Sarah,  142. 
Stephen,  141.     Ziba,  37. 
Lano,  David  (L,  101. 
Lai'HAM,  Rut'us,  100. 
Lakkim,  Lucy,  55. 
I^ATHROP,  ]Mary,  130. 
Thomas,  39. 
Law,  Samuel,  138. 
Lawrence,  Mrs.  73. 
Aaron,  142.     Elizabeth,  141. 
Samuel,  12S.     .Susan  C,  40. 
Susanna,  14.3. 
Lawton,  Mrs.  H.  M.,  87. 
Leach,  Caroline,  51. 
Learned,  Isaac,  139. 
.Joshua,  31. 
Leavitt,  Jane,  51. 
Lee,  Thomas  J.,  40. 
Leighton,  D.  K.,  00. 
Leonard,  Uriah,  48. 
William,  114. 
Levistone,  Betty,  148. 
Lewis,  Abigail,  78. 
Benjamin,  1(  5.    Esther,  105. 
John,  153.     Samuel,  45. 
Sarah,  70,  119.    Thomas.  21. 
Lincoln,  .Joshua,  44. 
.    Seth,  103. 
Little,  Samuel,  15. 
Littlefield,  Francis,  68, 85. 
Mrs.  .Jane,  08.    Mary,  68,  85. 
LiVEKMOKE,  Rev.  Jonathan, 
83.     Martha,  03. 
Livingston,  Anna  G.,  83. 
Locke,  Ebenezer,  07. 
Joseph,  7. 
Lombard,  Israel,  84. 
Long,  Samuel,  25. 
Lovejoy,  Deborah,  101. 
Isaac,  134. 
Lovering,  Henry.  1.37. 
LOVEWELL,  Capt.',  125. 
Low,  Abigail,  115. 
Lowell,  John  Russell,  .32. 
LUFKIN,  Hannah,  113. 
Samuel,  01. 
Lund,  Mary,  87. 
LUNT,    ,  
3. 
Luscombe,  Dr.  Robert,  24. 
I.,YMAN,  Abigail  W.,  51. 
George,  100,  128. 
Hannah  M.,  10. 
Lewis  J.,  105. 
Lynde,    ,  
74. 
LvoN,  Mary.  124. 
Major  Robert,  124. 
Mace,  Martha,  01. 
Priscilla,  57. 
3IANN,  Horace,  110.  Mary,  30. 
Sarah!.,  10    Thomas,  07. 
Manning,    ,  
85. 
Thomas,  83. 
Mansfield,  Edward,  55. 
Mansitr,  William  G.,  138. 
March,  Abigail,  3. 
Kev.  Edmund,  3. 
Marshall,    ,  
4,  91. 
Asa,  S.    Isaac,  151.    Joel,  10. 
.John,  20.     .Josejih,  174. 
3Iary,  10,  25.    Samuel,  57. 
Marston,  Amos,  38. 
Martin,    ,  
Hannah,  28.   41. 
 - 570 - 
INDEX    TO    GENEALOGICAL    RE(;I8TER.                    181 
Mason,  Dr.  Augustus,  lil. 
James  L.,  '.>S.    Saiiili  J.,  1-"C>. 
Mastkrman,  James.  4;^. 
Matthews,  Lydia,  lOd. 
Kev.  Hherberne  S.,  IiiH. 
Maynard,  Aaron.  24.  .")1. 
Betsey,  ll:i.     Mrs.  >Iary,  'M. 
McCautv,  JMary,  '_'7. 
M(jI)t)N.\l.D,  Willlani,  154. 
MclNTlUK,  Daniel,  121. 
McKke,  Ann,  1(>. 
William,  i:!7. 
McICees,  James,  4. 
McK  i:\ziK.  K.  A..  114. 
McLean,  Susan  J.,  1:^7. 
Mcl'HKR.soN,  .lames  ('.,  11. 
Mead,  —  ,  
Mathew,    :>■'•. 
.IT. 
Mears,  Lucy  A.,  .s. 
Lydia  K.,  ol.    Thomas,  21. 
Meldrum,  James,  ItXl. 
Melvin,  E.sther,  .'32. 
Mekri.vm,  ^fartha  K.,  52.  . 
Mary,  211,  HO.     Sail,  12'.i. 
Thomas,  140. 
Meisrili,.  Uev.  Isaac,  127. 
Henry  K..  S.     Nathan,  li'.t. 
S.  S.,  S4. 
Merrow,  Abigail,  lis. 
Mii.ES,  John,  10.'!. 
MiT>i,Ei{,  Klizabeth.  (>!. 
(ieorge  II.,  144.  Hannah,  2(i. 
Kev.  John,  (il.  Lucretia.  i:!:'>. 
Dr.  Nathaniel,  75. 
Peter  W.,  120.     Sally,  ;:i. 
MiLiviKEN.  Louisa,  Kis. 
Mii>LS,  I'hilip,  120. 
MisoT,  James.  s;l. 
.Martha,  fi'.). 
Susanna,  105.   Timothy,  105. 
Mixer,  Isaac,  5(i.  i:!l). 
John,  41.    Sarah,  l:t'.i. 
MoKFATT.  Margaret,  125. 
Monroe,  .Vhigail,  121.        * 
.lohn,  .5.    William,  127. 
Mooar,  Mrs.  :Mehitable,  .".X. 
MooiiY,  Abigail.  :>2 
,MnoRE,  Anna,  si 
Francis,  Kl. 
-MoiiEs.  Abigail.  4 
MOR(iAN,    .  22. 
Morrill,  K.  T..  7. 
Morse,  Rev.  Horace  K. 
Mary,  G(>.    Sarah,  i:!0. 
Morton.  Almira,(it). 
MiNisoE.  Amanda  P.,  :i2. 
Harriet,  74     .lonas.  14: 
Mary.  7S. 
Mt'Rl/ofK,  Lncy,  141. 
Mi'RRAV,  Ruth,  SiS. 
Mr.STON.  Rev.  Thoma 
Mrz/.v.  Anuis.  15 
Rev    Artemns  B..  15. 
Rev   William,  15. 
Mvri<:k,  Martha.  I'.i. 
Neal,  Kllenor.  44. 
Rose,  93. 
Nkei)HA.M,  Lncy.  Id. 
Nkweli-,  Charles  W.,  .■;4, 
(trace,  14S. 
Newman,  Kbenezer,  42,  172 
josiah,  42. 
Nkwtox,  Sarah,  9i>. 
Nichols,  Adaline,  \:M\. 
William,  1,38. 
NiCKLEs,  Asa,  137. 
Nixon,  Joseph,  00 
NoEKis,  Ann  N.,  l:if». 
James  W.,  IMO. 
12«. 
,  
411. 
Norton,  l{ev   Jacob,  15,40. 
Lucy  Ann,  40. 
Noi'RSE,  Francis  H.,  107. 
NOYES,  Elixabeth,  20. 
Moses,  118.     Sarah,  lit. 
Nurse,  Francis,  147. 
Mary,  147.     Rebecca,  147. 
NuTTlNi;,  Jonas,  87. 
Obeh,  Abigail,  m, 
Rebecca,  80. 
()1,<()TT,  Rev.    ,  
115. 
Ordway,  Daniel,  1.12. 
George  H.,  10. 
Orne,  .losiah,  155. 
OsHAN,  Abigail,  i:5. 
OsBORN,  Mrs..  127. 
John,  31.     William,  loo. 
Os(iooi),  Kev.  David,  17. 
Dorcas.  l!l.     Lvdia,  20. 
Mary.  «4,  138.  '  
Sarah,  15s. 
Pace."    ,  
58. 
Calvin,  128.    Dolly,  142. 
IClmira,  KiO.    .loaiina,  20. 
.lohn,  53.     I'oUv.  105. 
William,  70. 
Pmne,  Huldah,  2. 
Katherine,  84. 
Rebecca,  108.     Thomas,  los. 
Palmer,  Klizabeth,  110. 
Samuel  W..  122. 
I'ARK,  .losepli,  114. 
P.VRKER.  Aaron,  2. 
Amy.  118.     Anna,  28. 
Benj.,  1 17.     Betsev,  l.!5.  10.5. 
liette,  !»1.     Clarissa,  8. 
Deborah,  105.     Enoch,  25. 
Ephraim,  105.     Hannah.  (iO. 
Harriet.  'J2.     Isaac,  8. 
.lacob,  35,  131).     Mrs.  Joliau- 
na,  130.     .lohn,  35,  171. 
.loiuis,  75.   Lydia,  51,  82,  1.57. 
Martha,  27.    Mary  Poulter, 
35.     Nathan,  12. 
Nathaniel,  lis.  Priscilla,  41. 
Rachel  Ann,  0.  Rebecca,  35. 
Robert.  .54.     Samuel.  4.  30. 
Sarah,  54.     Sibbel,  105. 
Thomas,  35.     William,  40. 
I'ARKHURST,  Elizabeth,  7,  8, 
170.     John,  14,  !I4. 
Parsons,  Michael,  3. 
Parry.  Joseph,  80. 
Patch.  Edith,  34.     Lucy.  •34. 
Paterson,  Francis  W.",  0. 
Patio,  Esther,  40. 
Peabobv,  Amos,  100. 
Fanny,  100. 
Pearson,  Caleb,  51. 
.lames,  25. 
I'EiRcE,  .leronie,  78. 
.losepli,  112.     Lucy  S.,  78. 
Penmman.  Luther,  14!». 
Perkins,  Eliza  A.,  120. 
Pkrry.  Anna.  07. 
Obadiah.  07.     William.  07. 
Pettenoill.  I'eter.  140. 
PnELi's.    ,  
SO. 
Francis,  0(i.     .lohn.  1.58. 
.loseph.  .57.     Mrs.  Phebe.  !iO. 
Mrs.  .Susanna.  83.     Wiiis- 
low,  83. 
I'HiLLirs,  Mary,  82. 
PHii.LrOT,  F:iiza  II. ,  
12. 
I'iER<E,  Ellen  B..  110. 
Ephraim,  131.     Harriet,  87. 
Lucretia  A.,  10.     Marshall, 
143.     Oliver,  70. 
I'lLLSHURV,   ,it3.  8aiiiiiel,41 
Pitman,  .Mark,  03, 
I'Li'MEii,  (ieorge,  101. 
Sarali,  42.     Daniel  F.,  'Zi,       , 
'I'homas,  24.  ,,—  • 
Pollard,  Abby,  161.      -^  ^'    i' 
Amory,  101.     Oliver,  7o. 
PoLLEY,  Elizabeth,  18. 
(ieorge,  IS. 
PooDNicv,  Marv,  104. 
Poor,  David,  70. 
Harriet  L..  10.    Lvdia  \..  1.3. 
Porter,  Elizabeth  .1.,  101. 
President,  1.50. 
Powers,  Jonathan,  l(i3. 
Pratt,  Lucy,  173.    Martha,  12. 
Prentice,  Dr.  Nathaniel,  128. 
I'RESCOTT,  Lvdia.  78. 
Dr.  Oliver,  157. 
J*Ri<'ii.\RD,     ,  
105.  Sally, 44. 
Priest,  Jane,  120. 
Jonas,  44.     Philip,  104, 
Prin(  E,  .loiiathan,  123. 
Proctor.  Daniel.  00. 
Fannie  .1..  110.     Lucv,  172. 
3Iary.  71.     (Oliver.  !:4. 
Rachel,  20.     Sarah,  (is. 
Tlionias  P.,  130. 
I'ri'EER,  Elizabeth  A.,  00. 
PiNCHARD,  Rev.  George,  103. 
Rebecca,  113. 
Pi  TNAM,  (ien.  David,  3. 
Elizabeth,  55.     Phillip,  4. 
Pi  TNEY,  Jane,  38. 
Pye,  Sir  John,  .39.    Mary,  .30. 
Ramsey,  Sarah,  172. 
Rand,  George  W..  41. 
William,  70,  120. 
Randall,    ,  
128. 
Rawson,  William,  27. 
Reed,    ,  
38,  51. 
Diadema.  124.  Elizabeth,  102. 
(jeorge,  102.     .lacob,  57. 
.lolin,  143.     Joshua,  04. 
Levi  H..  20.     Micah,  lO.!. 
Nabby,  138.     Nathan  H.,  107. 
Parmelia,  78      Ransom,  l.'!8. 
Samuel,  5, 133.  Swethern.  78. 
Remkk,  (ilenvillc,  144. 
Renox,  Catherine,  10. 
Revnor,  Anna,  88. 
Rev.  .John,  88. 
liici;,  Hon.  Alexander  II. .  
147, 
Mrs.  Dolly  L..  88. 
Richards,  John.  !i. 
Nancy,  41.     Wyatt.  128. 
Richardson.  Abigail,  ii'.l. 
Alpheus.  144.     Bridget,  43. 
Hannah,  01.     Henry,  07. 
.lackson,  32.     .losiah.  r^O. 
.hide,  83.     Lydia.  50. 
Mary,  (),  
48.    Polly,  10,  73. 
Reuben,  11.     Samuel,  00. 
Thomas,  0.     Warren,  41. 
Kirley,  Cordelia,  21. 
RiXEY,  Williani.  100. 
RoBHiN.'s,  .Adelaide  Y,  .  
133 
.Vnn,  .52.     Eleanor,  105. 
Ephraim,  135.     John,  27. 
Jonas,  43.     Lewis  E..  10. 
Roberts,  John  P..  133. 
Betsey,  72. 
RoBEY,'  Mrs.  Sarah,  127. 
Robinson,  F'ranklin,  103. 
Henry,  :14.    Jonathan,  03. 
.Moses,  03.     Samuel,  03. 
Rogers,  Ann  D.,  40. 
Rev.  Daniel,  42.    David,  .50. 
Harriet  E..  140.     Col.  Henrv 
,     
N.,  40.    .I'oseph,  lai, 
Josiah,  124.     Sarah,  4'i. 
II 
 - 571 - 
182                           HISTORY    OF    HILLEIMOA. 
KOLMNS,  Philii),  2:>- 
Hoss,  Margarot,  58. 
RoiJNDY,  Charles,  125. 
Ni'lieiniali,  17. 
KowK,  Tliomas,  1.5. 
Ko\VKLl>,  Louisa,  "'.). 
Kii«(iLi:s,     .  
171. 
Anna,  :i(i.     Kev.  Henj-,  !•">>. 
Kli/.a,  4.     Elizabeth,  18. 
(ieorge,  18.     .losepli,  31). 
.Martha,  81).     Nancy,  4. 
Tiiiiotl)y,  ;JG. 
Russ,  Hannah,  4.'). 
Nathan,  :{7. 
Ku.ssKi.i,,  Edwarfl,  :i. 
Hannah,  30.    .lames,  44,  8.{. 
.leminia,  7(i.    .lolin,  l:;i(). 
Mary,  18,  44.    I'eter,  'i7. 
Richard,  1.56.    .Sarali,  lL'<i. 
Thomas,  14.'{. 
Rust,  Susan  A.,  10:$. 
Saffori),  Mary,  7i>. 
Robert  15.,  172. 
Sagk,  Samuel,  72. 
vSaltf.r,  Joseph  .1.,  34. 
SANBOKN,  Hugh  M.,  13."i. 
Mary  .1.,  133. 
Sandek.s,  Mrs.,  7. 
Obadiah,  31.    Susauna,  31. 
Sakgent,  Abby,  72. 
Saundekson,  Cliarles,  144. 
■Savils,  John  A.,  144. 
Sawin,  Sarah,  125. 
Sawyer,    ,  
83. 
SCAJHJlON,  Charlotte,  107. 
ScHOULER,  William,  102. 
Seaman,  Maria,  40. 
SEARLES,  Benjamin,  LSCi. 
•James,  144. 
Sedmas,  Jane  P.,  120. 
SE(iER,  Mary,  63. 
Sessions,  Elizabeth,  22. 
Sewall,  Ammi  R.,  1.38. 
Rev.  Samuel,  124. 
Andrew,  78.     Henoiii,  11. 
Edward,  17.     Ksther,  144. 
Jonas,  144.     Joseph,  74*,  142. 
Leonard,  111.    Marv,  128. 
Molly,  02.     Olive,  05. 
Itacliel,  111.     Rebecca,  2, 
Kev.  Sami)son.  7(>,  Sarah,  flO, 
02.     Willard,  142. 
Zebiilon,  115. 
Si'ENCER,  Dr.  William  E..  1()3. 
Si'oFFuRi),  Frederick,  loi;. 
SrRA(;iiE,  Edward.  88. 
Stam.v,  Lucy,  14. 
Staples,  John  H.,  137. 
Stearns,     8'.),    Mrs.  Asa- 
hel,  1.58.     Asenath,  133. 
Elijah,  1.3,    John,  47. 
Marv  A.,  107.     Obed.  22. 
William,  30,  158. 
Stedsian,  John,  07. 
STEELE,  Joseph,  116. 
Stei'HENS,  James,  117. 
Steven.s,  Caleb.  104. 
Daniel,  44.     Elizabeth,  117. 
Kstlier,  00,     (ieorge,  44,  40. 
Josiah,  55,     Martha,  87,  110. 
I'aran,  138.    Sarah,  158. 
Stevenson,  Andrew,  117. 
Mary,  1 17.    Nathaniel,  3. 
Rebecca,  108      Thomas,  25. 
Stewart,  Mary,  76. 
ST.  John,  Elizabeth.  155. 
Stone,  I'hebe,  !)0. 
Thomas,  105. 
Stowell,  Aleck,  3. 
Stowers,  Ann,  78. 
Hannah,  00. 
Straw,  Mary,  Hi. 
STRONCi,  Theodore,  41. 
Sfmner,  James,  55. 
Mary,  64.     Thomas,  13. 
Swan,    ,  
2S,  125. 
Swallow,  Amaziah,  81. 
Pliebe,  105, 
Sharp,  — — ,  
56.     Robert,  108.  Swektzer,  Cornelius,  121. 
Shattitck,  Marv,  105.  Swift,  Nathaniel,  84. 
Phebe,  100.  Svmms,  Ebenezer,  40. 
Shed,    ,  
148.     Hannah,  174.TAFT,  Richard,  1.38. 
John,  50.    Matilda,  38. 
Rachel,  50. 
SHELDON,  Amanda,  125. 
Amos,  100. 
Shepard,     ,  
157. 
Sherman,  Elizabeth,  144. 
Shumwav,  Henry  P.,  125. 
Simmons,  Olive  M.,  172. 
SIMMS,  Sally,  138, 
SiMONDS,  Daniel,  117, 
David,  136,    Eliza,  21, 
(ieorge,  78.    Jesse,  21, 
.John,  71.    .Joshua,  14. 
Otis,  171.     Prudence,  144 
Rebecca,  .36.    Sarah,  16, 
Thomas,  137, 
William,  6, 103. 
SiJU'KiNS,  .lohn,  102. 
BiMPSON,  Rebecca,  114. 
Skinnep.,  Charles  L.,  137. 
Jacob,  1.37.    Susanna,  136. 
Sleeper,  .Jacob,  40. 
Solomon  S  ,  
84. 
Sloan,  Peter,  70. 
Smith,  Aaron,  102. 
Elizabeth  1).,  172. 
Dr.  Robert,  84,    Russell,  162 
Snow,  Susanna,  86, 
Somes,  Isaac,  87. 
Spalding,  Abby,  14. 
Abigail,  22.     Aluiira  S.,  14, 
Taintor,  William,  0. 
T.\LI50T,  I<^anny  M.,  80. 
Tapleafe,  Mary,  IS. 
Tappan,  Rev.  Samuel  S.,  141. 
Targett,  Joseph  I)..  144. 
Tay,  Archelaus,  26. 
Betsey.).,  122.     I'hcbe,  23. 
Sarah,  26.    Susanna,  113. 
William,  113. 
Taylor,    ,  
88. 
Abial,  22.   Abigail,  5.   .Vbra- 
ham,40.  Catherine,  117,142 
Cyrus,  26.     Elizabeth,  1!». 
Isaac,  70.    Jacob,  lOn. 
.Joseph,  100.     ]Michael,  22. 
Rebecca,  5.    Stephen,  20. 
Tliomas,  S2. 
Teel,    ,  
121. 
Elbridge,  55.     .John,  43. 
Temi'LE,  Benjamin,  120. 
Hepsibali,  26. 
Tennev,  Benjamin,  120. 
Thacher,  Col.  (ieorge,  157. 
Thistle,  Abial,  148. 
Hannah,  08.    .Joshua,  07. 
Thompson,    ,  
162. 
,     Abraham  R.,  170.    John,  12. 
Sarah,  15.    Susan,  139. 
Thorn  DIKE,  Dr.  Albert,  103. 
Thurston,  Richard,  15. 
TiBiJETTS,  Susan  K.,  14, 
TiDD,  Elizabeth,  46. 
.lohn,  46. 
Tinkham,  (ieorge  H,,  73. 
Todd,  Ruth,  76. 
Thomas,  21. 
ToMPSON,  James,  t*. 
Mrs.  Marv,  134,   .Simon,  134. 
TowNE,  Olive,  31. 
William  B.,  173. 
TOWNSEND,    ,  
164. 
Elizabeth,  81.     Rebecca,  «L 
TltASK,  Anne,  173. 
Elizabeth,  17:'.. 
JIaiinah,  142. 
Treat,  Mary,  124. 
Trowrridge,  Rev.  Caleb,  15. 
Maria,  15. 
Tri'LL,  Anna,  38. 
Elizabeth,  0.     Ruth,  .53. 
Tri'ssell,  Moses,  61. 
Tufts,  (Jail,  120. 
Eliakim,  126.    (ieorge,  62. 
Sarah,  120.    Susanna,  120. 
Tt'PPER,  Royal  H,,  124. 
Turner,  .John,  135. 
TuTEiN,  Edward  (i.,  166. 
Tweed,  Sally,  54. 
Twi.ss,  Daniel,  132. 
Hannah,  04,    .James,  48. 
Tyler,  .lolin,  13. 
Undekavood,  William,  81, 
I'PTON,  I'aul,  164. 
Usher,  Elizabeth,  V.V>. 
Wait,  Mercy,  38. 
Mrs.  Damaris,  06. 
Waldo,  Cornelius,  17. 
Elizabeth,  17. 
Walker,  Benjamin,  2t!. 
Catherine,  161.     David,  145. 
Elizabeth.  1.53.  Geo.  W.,  145. 
Lucy,  78. 
Mary,  74.    Robert,  2. 
Samuel.  78, 
Ward,    ,  
172.     Lyman,  31. 
Warner,  Ephraim,  22. 
Lizzie  G.,  116. 
Warren,  Amos,  162, 
Benj.,  40.     Frances  W.,  11. 
Hannah,  97.    Isaac,  11,  162 
.Jeremiah,  135.    Joseph,  102. 
-Mary,  130.    Roxana,  60. 
Sarah,  106. 
Washburn,  Benjamin  F.,  137. 
Wason,  .James  P.,  6. 
Waters,  Marv,  162. 
Mehitable,  13. 
Watkins,  John,  140. 
WAUtiH,  Varnum,  38. 
Webber,  David,  38. 
.    Susanna,  103. 
Webster,  Eleuthera,  152. 
Jesse,  55. 
Weld,  Theodore,  HI. 
Welch,  Christina  (i.,  0. 
Wentwortii,  David,  10. 
Wesson,  .John,  53. 
Weston,  Nathan,  125. 
\\'ET[iKRREE,  David,  (i<). 
Hannah,  16.     Joseph,  17. 
Rachel,  115.     Timothy,  105. 
Wheat,  Joel,  63. 
A'ictoria  G.,  .52. 
Wheeler,  Emma  S.,  52. 
.lohn,  30.     Joseph  1'.,  '.H». 
Oliver,  00.     Rebecca,  103. 
S.amuel,  00. 
Whipple,  John,  8o. 
Susanna,  89. 
Whitcomb,  Rosella,  103. 
 - 572 - 
INDEX    TO    GENEALOGICAL    REGISTER.                  183 
Whitk,  Rev.  David,  Sti. 
p:iisha,  140.    Elizabetli,  2-1. 
Isabella  H.,  24.     .John,  83. 
.losepli,  7;i.     Lydia,  84. 
Moses  H 
riiebe,  14(;. 
Sarah,  71,  140. 
Mary,  20,  24 
Nancy,  101. 
Samuel,  24. 
Susanna,  30 
William,  24,  149. 
WlllTKORD,  Elliot,  10. 
WlliTiNU,  Abigail,  27. 
.John,  37,127. 
Whitman,  Rev.  Rernard,  31, 
170.     Snow,  61. 
Whitmoke,  .John,  114. 
William  H.,  89. 
Whitnky,  Daniel,  41. 
John,  95,  10(i. 
Whittakek,  Abiffail,  lol. 
.John,  101. 
WllITTKMOltE,  John,  61. 
Nath'l,  .57.     Mrs.  Saoah,  61. 
William,  ir,4. 
WlllTWKLl,,    ,  
112. 
William,  101. 
Wight,  Abial,  93. 
Wii,i),  Charles  R.,  122. 
WiLKiNS,  George,  14. 
Capt.  R.,  164.    Thomas,  31. 
Timothy,  24. 
WiLi^AKO,  Elizabeth,  14. 
Kmma,  134.     Mary,  44. 
Simon,  14. 
Williams,  — ^,  102. 
Elizabeth,  127.    Job,  123. 
Rev.  John,  12.     Samuel,  127. 
Wilson,  Mrs.  Allen,  .51. 
Damaris,  42.    Dorcas,  (;^;. 
Ebenezer,  118.     (ieo.  W.,  16. 
Hannah,  170,  173.    Horace 
N.,  137.    John,  143. 
Rev.  John,  .34.  Jonathan,  41, 
140.  Lorinap,  1-14.  Lvdia, 
51,  143.     Blary,  3,  34,  166. 
Rebecca,  170. 
Sally,  80.     Susanna,  8. 
WiNf'HESTKK,  Mrs.  Elizabeth 
1.58. 
Winn,  Elizabeth,  117. 
Jacob,  129.     Joseph,  26,  142. 
Susanna,  142. 
WlNsllir,  Edward,  31,  126. 
Lucy,  .31.     Martha,  14. 
Samuel,  14,  28.     Simeon,  2. 
WiNTiiRor,  Fitz  John,  88. 
Roberto.,  116. 
WiswALL,  Mrs.  Isabella,  49. 
Thomas,  49. 
Wood,  Abijah,  91. 
Benjamin,  109.    Caroline,  K. 
122.    Daniel,  97.     Lydia, 
87,  138.    Ora,  122. 
WooDiuilDOE,  Rev.  John,  127. 
Martlia,  127. 
\V()()Ds,  Hannah,  49. 
Susan,  144. 
WooDWAun,    ,  
121. 
Edmond  E.,  122.     Ephraini 
W.,  95. 
WoonwouTii,  Louisa,  174. 
WoosTER,  Rhoda,  124. 
Worcester,  Eldad,  19. 
Henry,  13. 
Jonathan  F.,  114. 
Lydia,  17.     Mary  H.,  114. 
Rhoda,  13.     Samuel,  124. 
Wor:mwooi>,  Susan  K.,  130. 
,WkI(;iit,  Asa,  25. 
Edward,  35.     Elizabeth,  86. 
John,  135,  172.    Jonathan,  4. 
Luida,  172.     Mary,  15. 
Miriam,  132.     Molly,  86,  143. 
Sally,  100.    Stephen,  70. 
WVEKS,    ,  
26. 
Wyman,    ,  
170.      David,  49. 
Dorcas,  38.     Eliphaz,  113. 
Elizabeth  H.,  5.     F'rancis,  5. 
Henry  A.,  1.33.  Hepzibali,  4H. 
Judith,  5.     Mary,  121. 
Nancy,  73.     Sarah,  1.53. 
William,  HO. 
Yantis,  James  A.,  41. 
York,  Lydia,  146. 
Addendum. — The  following  interesting  record  is  taken  from  the 
Jonrnal  of  John  Hull,  Treasurer  of  Massachusetts  during  Philip's  war. 
It  is  kindly  furnished  by  Rev.  George  M.  Bodge  of  Dorchester,  and, 
too  late  for  its  proper  place,  is  here  inserted  : — 
1G76,  Aug-u.^t  24.      BillericM  Towue  was  allowpd  a  Eate  of 
"  ''  ••    credited  a  payment, 
T.eavnig  a  balance  due 
167(1,  Augu.st  24.     IJillerica  Towne  Cr.  By  Sundry  Acci)ts,  viz. 
Nathaniel  Hill  pd  as  per  Assignment,  .         00     12     10 
.lolin  Saunder.s  ••  "  .         02     14     00 
Thomas  Farmt-r       •*  ''  .        01     19     06 
  05 
£ 
A. 
d. 
145     3 
!) 
108   17 
9 
2-4 
37     1    0  2^ 
r..   o; )       OG     04 
0(3     04 
NAMES  OF  THOSE  CREDITED  WITH  MIL.  SERVICE  AT  BILLERICA- 
GARRISON  AND  TOWN. 
1075,  Nov.  30. 
Dec.  20, 
.John  Boyd, 
.lames  I'oply, 
Thomas  Welch, 
Joseph  Dowse, 
William  Chapman, 
David  Jones, 
John  Gale, 
John  Essery, 
Joseph  Dowse, 
.loseph  Low, 
.lames  I'oply, 
•John  Boyde, 
•lames  Barnard, 
.James  Smith, 
Daniel  Baldwin, 
John  Fisk, 
Richard  Satell, 
8.  p. 
00  00 
00  00 
14  do 
14  00 
01)  00 
00  00 
01  OS 
0.  00 
07  03 
01  OS 
06  00 
05  00 
01  08 
17  O.S 
00  00 
CO  00 
12  00 
1075,  Dec.  20, 
1075-0,  Jan.25. 
1676,  Apr.  24, 
"  June  24, 
"    July  29, 
Aug.  24, 
Bept.  23, 
Stephen  Coolidg, 
Nathan'l  Livermore, 
Humphrey  Millard, 
Daniel  Baldwin, 
Stephen  Coolidg, 
Franc  is  
Wain  Wright, 
Howell  Davis, 
Ricliard  Sawtell, 
Francis  Nichols, 
William  Chapman, 
.John  Fisk, 
Edward  Bishop, 
Ephraim  Jones, 
Francis  Bond, 
George  Wyatt, 
Francis  Wain  Wright, 
£  8.  p. 
03  06  00 
02  14  06 
03  18  00 
01  19  01 
02  01  00 
01  04  00 
02  11  04 
00  19  01 
04  10  00 
01  10  (M> 
01  06  Olt 
00  16  00 
05  14  Oo 
OP)  11  00 
05  14  00 
06  12  0<>- 
 - 573 - 
N     MEMORIAM. 
As  these  i)ag"es  are  passing  the  press,  the  deatli  is  reportecl,  at  his 
home  ill  Zumbrota,  Minnesota,  1882,  Nov.  1,  of  the  Rev.  Jessk  G. 
1).  Stkakns,  recently,  for  twent3-four  years,  the  pastor,  honored  and 
beloved,  of  the  Congregational  Chiireh  in  liillerica.  It  will  he  proper 
and  gratefnl  to  the  feelings  of  the  people  of  the  town,  if  1  add  here 
a  word,  now  that  his  own  eye  will  not  rest  npon  it,  in  emphatic  tes- 
timony to  
his  scholarship  and  piety,  to  his  fidelity  as  a  pastor,  and 
value  as  a  citizen.  His  record  may  be  found  al)ove.  ( Gen.  Register., 
p.  141.)  Billericti  wall  hold  his  memory  in  honor.  Not  the  mem- 
bers of  his  own  spiritual  tlock  only,  but  those  of  other  folds,  and  all 
the  citizens  of  the  town,  esteemed  him.  lie  commended  himself  to 
every  man's  conscience  in  the  sight  of  God  ;  and  while  he  held  firmly 
the  doctrines  he  preached,  he  held  them  in  so  generous  a  charity, 
and  so  large  a  sympathy  with  all  men,  that  no  one  could  withhold 
respect.  He  was  a  scholar  of  exceptional  (luality  and  diligence,  and 
liis  preaching  was  thougiitful  and  instructive  ;  liut  a  rare  modest}- 
and  sensitiveness  in  the  presence  of  others,  impaired  somewhat  his 
effectiveness  as  a  preacher.  In  18G4  he  was  a  member  of  the  Mas- 
sachusetts House  of  Representatives,  and  for  a  number  of  years  had 
charge  of  the  schools  of  the  town.  After  leaving  Billerica,  he  served 
nine  years  in  Clearwater,  jVIinnesota.  He  then  retired  from  active 
pastoral  labor,  and  made  for  himself  a  pleasant  home  in  Zumbrota. 
In  1877  he  published  a  volume  of  287  pps.  on  The  Meaning  and 
Power  of  Baptism.,  the  outgrowth  of  a  sermon  and  a  review  which 
had  been  previously  issued. 
On  the  last  day  of  October.  1881,  his  excellent  wife  w:i,s  taken 
from  him  liy  death.  A  year  and  a  da}-  the  good  man  lingered  in  his 
loneliness,  and  then  suddenly,  and  joyfully,  we  may  be  sure,  rejoined 
her  in  the  home  not  mtide  with  hands. 
 - 574 - 
General  Index. 
N.  B.— Tins    IXDEX   DOES  NOT  INCLUDE  THE  LISTS  OF  NAMES,  SOME  OF  WHICH   AUE   I.OXG 
AND   ALPHABETICALLY   Al:KAN<iED,  OX  THE  FOLLOWING    PAGES:      KHo,    .■!^,   It,   40, 
H7-9,  153,  Of),  rtt,  KO,  90,  1,  .1,  
4,  :i0.'i-9,  13-5,  43-5,  7-51,  73,  4,  89-91,312-14.    The 
COMMON  FOKM  OF  NAMES  ONLY  IS  GIVEN,  AND  TITLJ;S  ARE  OMITTED. 
A  few  rel'eveiict.-;  witli  this  mark  (t)  refer  to  pages  of  the  (ienealogical  liegister. 
Abbot,  Blanej',  .304,  7.  Bickford,  Hezekiah,  .303.  siah,  .300.    .Sanuicl,  30(;.   Dr. 
David,  30i!.    George,  tfO,  119.      William,  143.  Thaddeus,  2.57,  .■i03.    Thom- 
Isaac,  254.    James,  274,  304,  Billericv,  the  name,  19.  as,  76,  205.  William,  (io,  221. 
T.    Jeremiah,  300.    .Joseph,     j\Ieaning  of,  296.  Bruce,  George,  257. 
119.  Joshua,  Dea.  175,  7,  83,  Billerkay,  292-301.  Buckley,  Dennis.  2S4. 
201,  230,  3,  7,  H,  303,  4,  0,  7.  BIRD,  Simon,  26,  S,  34,  (U,  71,   Buckminster,  Rev.  Joseph, 
Obed,  220.    Rev.  William  E.      li-5.  207. 
269.  Births,  27.  Bulkley,  V<ev.  I'eter,  160. 
Abbot's  Bridge,  60.  Bishop,  Edward,  183.t  Bundy,  Dr.  Frank  E.  2X4,  .303. 
Adams,  Edward  A.,  284.  Black,  Simon,  190.  Bur<;e,  Jonatlian,  15is,  9. 
Thomas,  47,  49.  Blake,  Huldah,  271.  Burghstead,  Great,  297,  301. 
Alcocke,  Palsgrave,  50.  Blani hard  massacre,  138.      Burgoyne,  Gen.  246. 
Alden,  Henry,  194.  Blan(1iard.  Henry,  302.  Burroughs,    Rev.    (ieorge, 
Allen,  Martha  and  Mary,  131.    James,   100.    John,  201,  55,      197. 
Thomas,  5,  .50,  82.  24-2.  '  304.    Joseph,  307.     Samuel.  BURROWS,  John  A.,  28.3. 
Amherst,  Gen.  146.  150.  134.  Timothy,  236.  William,  Burt,  Joseph  A.,  308. 
Andoyek,  73-5,  90,  93,  4,  205.       143,  307,  8.     William  H.  308.  BuEYING  Ground,  67. 
Andrews,  Assacher,  225.         Bland,  William,  257.  Butler,  Gen.  34. 
Angier,  Robert,  236.    Sam-  Blood,  .lohn  and  Robert,  and  Butterfield,   Sergt.    Jona- 
uel,  260.  Blood's  Farjies.  16,  19,  .50,     than,  140.    Samuel,  13s. 
Annable,  Sarah,  315.  62-3,  76-82,  113.  22,  4,  205,  7.    BUTTRlCK,  .John  A.,  25s. 
Atherton,  Benjamin,  .303.       Bodge,  Rev.  George  M.  183.t  BYRA;\t,  Rev.  R.  M.,  272. 
Humphrey,  17.  Bohonan,  Peter  B.  258,  308.    Cambridge,  6-9,  grants,  12- 
Backus,  269.  Bond,  Francis,  183.t  1^,  separation,  20-22,  (ireat 
Bacon's  Mill,  94,  278.  Bonner,  William,  224.  Deed,  46. 
Bacon,  Benjamin,  139.    Jon-  Borland,  125.  Cann,  Bayard  M.,  303. 
athan,  139,  200,  10,  20,  55,  79,  Boundaries,  73-86.  Carleton,  Amos,  307.  John, 
304,  6.  Joseph,  139.   Josiah,  Bowditch  Papers,  197.  255,  79. 
139,279.  Michael,  27,  111,  13,  Bowers,  Andrew,  302.    Ben-  Carlisle,  207,  22-5. 
22.    Nathaniel,  137,  9.  jamin.  254,  302.  Vnpt.  135,  7.  Carrier,  Martha,  197. 
Baker,  Eben,  305,  7.  James,  303.    Jonathan,  177,     Thomas,  131,  90,  5. 
William,  25.  217,  304,  6,7.  Josiah,  216,  29,  Carter,  Rev.  Thos.  1.59,  60. 
Baldwin,  Cyrus,  257.    Dan-     :!3,  7, 8,  303, 6.     Martha,  271.  Caryl,  Rev.  Benjamin,  260. 
iel,  183.t  Henry,  305.    John,     William,  303,  4,  6.  Census,  310. 
25,  7,  31,  2,  4,  6,  7,  44,  59,  65,  BoWES,  Rev.    Nicholas,    181,  Chaffin,  Rev.  Nathaniel  ( >., 
7,  88,  94,  110,  54,  257-8,  304,  5,  '  254.  269. 
7,  8.  Thomas,  306.  Win.  2.36.  BoYD,  John,  183. t  Chamberlain,  Aaron,  lol. 
Ballard,  William,  90.  Boyden,  Mrs.  113.  Daniel,  201.    Edmund,  195. 
Ballou,  Eliza,  132.  Brackett,  John,  Peter,  and     Edward,  25.  Isaac,  110.  John, 
Barnard,  James,  I83.t  Capt.  Richard,  26,  7,  110-14,     200.  Mrs.  Rebecca,  196.  Reu- 
Barrett,  Stephen,  307.  185.  ben,  305,  307.    i^amuel,  1.39. 
Barron,  Isaac,  101,  307.  Braddock,  Gen.  146.  Thomas,  10,  11.  W  illiam,  11, 
Samuel,  139.  Braddon,  Miss,  295.  17,  22,  4,  7,  44,  65,  110. 
Barry,  Rev.  William,  257.        Bradsha,  Mrs.  Martha,  46.      Champney,  Daniel,  14,  189. 
Batchelder,  Josiah,  :i03.        Bradstreet,  Dudley,  75.  John,  27.  Elder  Ricliard,  13, 
Batcheller,   Seaborn,  (not  Branch,  Isaac,  254.  17-26,  31,  41,  S3,  94.    Sam  1, 
Salome),  46.  Brattle,  Thomas,  48.  25-8,  41,  4,  .59,  65,  88,  is,). 
Batters,  Mr.  48.  Brattleboro',  143.  Chandler,  Rev.  James,  181. 
BA.YLY,  Sir  John,  .300.  Bp.AY,  Mrs.  Ann,  127.  Rev.  John,  181-3,  254. 
Bean,  Joseph,  255.  Brenton,  William,  44.  Thomas,  7;^. 
Beard,  Abijah,  241.    Ebene-  Brice,  Thomas,  300.  Chapman,  UiHiam,  I8.i.t 
zer,  Jacob  and  John,  222.  Bridge,   Col.  Ebenezer,  229-  Charnestaffe  I.ane,89,  1  3. 
Josiah,  241.  38,44,74.    Rev.  Ebenezer,  Chelmsford,    75-82,91,114, 
Bedford?  "18-20  261.    Thomas,  189.  56-8,  217-24. 
Beecher,  Lyman,  270.  Brittan,  Mary,  236.  Chester,  Col.  Thoinas.  .301. 
Beers,  Lt.  Richard,  83.  William,  236,  41.  Church  [of  CambndgeJ  tarm, 
Bellingham,  Gov.  16.  Brooks,  Rev.  Edward,  260.         40,1,92. 
Bells,  177,  8.  Timothy,  27,  95,  111-14,  22.     Clark,  John,  134.    Ihonias, 
Belvidere,  103.  Brown,  Caleb  S.  307.  George,     17.  „        t  i      « 
Bennett,  Mrs.  Joshua,  315.       201,  .304,  0.    Hiram  C,  .308.  Cleavel.and,  Rev.  John  P., 
"      ' Library,  173,  315.        Jacob,  25,  31-3,  65,  75.    Jo-     271. 
 - 575 - 
50G                         HISTORY    OF    BILLERICA. 
C'OCHECO.  12(>.  DUDI.KY,  Joseph,  l:i(>.    Thoni-  Kostkh,  Uucllev,  '-'oS,  3CH,  5,  7. 
COGOlN.  Hex.  Jacob,  257.  as,  1,  3,  4.  7,  10-12,  15,  Hi.  Isaac,  L'lRi,  7.   Joseph,  110,  3, 
C'olhukn,  114.    John,  i:t9.        Dudi.ky   Farm.  23,  4,  7,  .W-:!,     22,  ;'.l»,  TO,  212,  30.3,  5.    Sergt. 
COLBV,  Kev.  Natl\aiiiel  L.  272.    oG.  Thomas,  20-8,  37,  .■)9,  04,  6,  7, 
Cole,  Samuel,  48.  Dummek  Fort,  143.  92,  3,  C,  S,  110,  1,  3,  33,  80,  0, 
t\)Li,iNS,  Edwanl,  9.  25,  30,  41,Dunkin,  John.  Ill,  27,  8(1.  'MO,    itO,  .",.  
305. 
83.    William  .S.,  284.  12.    Mary,  l:i8.  Fox,  Rev.  John,  172. 
COLSOX,  George  F.,  .'i07.     Is-  Dunstahle,  (irant  of  Land  Fox  Farm,  41. 
rael  A.  307.  there,  47,  8.     Attacked,  127,  Fox  Hill,  211. 
('oxci>KD,  70-82,  2iy,  23,  5.  140.  Fkencii,  Charles  AV.  307.   Ja- 
C'ONCOKU  Road,  Sl>.  DUNSTER,  Pres.  Henrv,  9,  13,      cob,  20,  70,  111,  3,  70,  212,  36, 
»\>NVEKSE,  Edward,  0,  8.  15,  20,  1,  30,  41,  65.     "  55,  304,  5,  6.  John,  13,  17,  23, 
Capt.  James,  81.  2,  127.  Durkent,     (Durrant,    &c..),     65,74,93,5,111,12,21,200, 
C'OXWKLL,  Russell  H.,  285.  Abraham.  223.  John,  .W,  tio,      12,  21,  305.    Jonas,  242,  255. 
C'ooK.  Francis,  307.  Paul,  2.33.     5,185,96,211.  s     Jonathan,  143.     Joseph,  27, 
Sears,  306.  DuSTlN,  Hannah,  1.35.  \  60,  110,  06,  210,  GO,  85.    Rich- 
COOLIDGE,  Stephen,  18.3.t  Duttox,  Benj.,  127.     James,   '  
ard,  13.    Sarah,  27.    Thom- 
C'ooper,  Rev.  Warren,  270.  139,40.    Mrs.  Joanna,  128.      as,  221.     William,  13,  17,22- 
CORXELL,  Peter,  222.  John,  110,  77.  201,  11.  Thorn-     8,  31,  2,  5,  44,  58-62,  5,  7,  89, 
COTTOX,  Rev.  John,  1,  119,61.      as,  110,  22,  7,  87,  200,  11,  74.        94,  96,  110,  55,  58,  77,  252,  92, 
COWELL,  Edward,  48.  Eame.s,  John,  305.     Robert,  /301,  4-6. 
Ckadock,  Jlathew,  3.  180.  'Trost,   Benjamin,  175,  7-9. 
Croe,  John,  22.  Easte.  Benjamin,  2.38.  Daniel,  221.     Ebenezer,  140. 
("KOMWELL,  John,  4.3-6.    Ol-  Edes,  John,  241.  Edmund,  221.  James,  27,  68, 
iver,  57,  162.  Education,  252-9.  79,  96,  110,  212,  305.    John, 
CKO.SKY,  F.phraim,300.    Hen-  Ela,  Rev.  Benjamin,  271.  143.    Joseph,  221.    Samuel, 
ry,  .305.     Hezekiah,  256,  30G.  Eeiot,  Rev.  John,   104-9,  18,      68,  110,  20,  33,  68,  303. 
Jeremiah,  307.     John,  307.     317.  Thomas,  210. 
Joseph,   176,  212.      Josiah,  Elliott,  George  M.  185,  92.  Frothixghaw,  Hon.  Richard, 
142-4,  257,  305,  7.     Leander,      George  P.,  305,  7.  235,  8. 
307.    Michael,  305,   7.     Na-  Emer.sox,  Rev.  Daniel,  261-4.  Fkye,  John,  90.     Jonathan, 
than,   144,   200,   12.    Oliver,  Essery,  John,  183.t  111,  254.    Rev.  Mr.  260. 
239,  .55,  .303,  4,  6.    Simon,  25,  Everett,  Ichabod,  307.  Fuller,  Andrew,  197. 
7,  60,  9,  92-4,  110,  13,  29,  39,  ExETER  College,  29.5.  Gale,  John,  ISS.f 
68,  70,  1,  6,  85,  88-96,  304,  5.  Farley,  Ebenezer,  202,  211.  Gallaway,  Rev.  James,  2G9. 
Solomon,  142.  Timotliy,  2i5.      George,  11,  5,  7,  22,  4,  7,  31,  Galusha,  Samuel,  142.  . 
William,  .303.  2,  8,  41,  4,  58,  9,  63-71,  82,  9,  Gardner,  Henrv,  233. 
CUMINGS,  Rev.  Henry,  227,-3.3,     94,  5,  111,  3,  .5.3-6,  85,  201,  69,  Garfield,   Capt.    Benjamin, 
7-40,  60-8,  303.     Nathaniel,     79,  306.      Joseph,   177,  212.      81,    Note  on  family,  132. 
142.  Samuel,   15.    Timothy,   112,  Gilmax,  George  C.  270. 
CURREXCY,  Continental,  240.       202.  Gleasox,  William,    41,    271, 
Currier,  William,  241.  Farmer.  Albert  E.  283.    An-     305,  7. 
Cutler,  Mrs.  A.  B.  99.    Rev.     drew,  223.  Daniel,  143.    Ed-  (tLOHe  Hill,  .37,  94. 
Robert.  254.  ward,  28,  110,  31,  70,  90,  5,  9,  Godfrey,  Lt.  Simon,  1.00. 
Damox,  Rev.  Norwood,  269.        200,   11,  39,  40,  64,  302,  4.  5.  GOFFE,  Edward,  20,  1. 
Dane,  Rev.  Francis,  160.  Jeremiah,  304,  7.    John,  45,  GooKix,  Capt.  Daniel,  9, 17,  8, 
Daxforth,  Lieut.  Elijah,  239.      129,  30,  7,  9,  40,  4,  201,  12,  56,      23,  6,  30,  1,  41,  59,  CA,  6,  104, 
Jesse,  241.    Jonathan,  5.  14,     306.     Richard,  221.     Sam'l,     9,  17,  8,  65,  96. 
17,  22-7,  31-5,  40-9,  51-3,  8-     142.    Thos.,  110,39,  183,t  221.  GORMAX,  Francis,  258. 
60,  4,  5,  8,  70-9,  82,  7-94,  6-9,  Fahxham,  Timothy,  303.  GRADUATES,  302. 
100, 3, 7,  8,  10-17,  20,  1,  
3,  6,  7,  Farrex,  Rev.  Wm.  A.,  272.     Graham,  John,  254. 
33,  53,  8,  70,  2,  4,  84,  5,  SO-  Farwell,  Joseph,  76.  Grant,  William  C.  25s. 
203,  11,  16,  92,  303-5.  Josiah,  Fassett,  Josiah,  139,  50,  201,  GREEN,   David,   150.      Capts. 
255.    Rev.  Samuel,   160,  77.     20,  79,  306.    Patrick,  198,  9.     John  and  William,  132. 
Samuel,  201,  11, 16, 20.  Thos.     Samuel,  200,  2.  Greenwood,  Moses  P.  271. 
11,  42.    Dr.  Timothy,  230,  3,  Faulkxek,  Francis,  257,  80,  Grey,  William,  303. 
7,8,303,6.  81.,    George,  303.      James,  Grimes,  George,  28,  195.  Wil- 
Daxiel,  Richard,  25,  8,  41,  88,     308.     James  R.,  2.58,  81,  .307.     Ham.  137,  9. 
93,5,106,10,11,14,69,75.  Luther  W.,  258.     Richard,  Grotox,  98-100,  15. 
Davidsox,  Nathaniel,  151.  281.  Gukxey.  .John,  33,  6. 
Davis.   Benjamin,   255.      Hi-  Fish,  Rev.  William  H.,  270.      Haile,  (Hale),  AVilliam,  26,  8, 
ram  E.  285.  Howel,183.t  Jo-  Fisher,  Joshua,  84,  5.    Ste-     34,  58,65,97,185. 
seph,  41,  177,  211,  .306.  Josh-     phen,  189.  Hall,  John,  .59.  Richard,  221. 
ua,  233,  7,  42,  306.    Philip,  FiSKE.  John,  183.t  Rev.  John,      Samuel,  221. 
299.    Simon,  76.    Tobias,  11.     107,56,9,60.  Hamlet,  Jacob,  110.  Wm.  13, 
Davy,  Humi)hrey,  83.  4,  127,  FiTCii,  Benjamin,  278.    Sam-     25-27,  .32-5,  64,  91,  8, 110,  55, 
304.  uel,  28,  139,  201,  20, 300.  85,  269,  305. 
Dexter,  George  M.  275.  Rev. Fitch's  Mill,  94.  Haxs,  Charles,  225. 
Henry  M.  156.    Sanuiel,  .303. Fletcher,  Charles  N.  283.       Hardy,  Ebenezer,  223,  5. 
Dinsmore,  Thomas,  220.  Rev.  Clifton,  270.     Francis,  Harris,  James,  300. 
Dismemberment,  218-25.  76.  James,  113.  Robert,  89.    Hartwell,  Mrs.  John,  254,  6. 
DiTSON,  Hugh,  139.    Thomas,  Flint,  Rev.  .lames,  267.  Capt. Harvard    College,  9,  41,  8, 
234,  5.  Thomas,  150.  192.     Farm,  41. 
Dorr,  Rev.  Theodore  H.  269.  Floyd,  Daniel,  305.  Haseltine,  Samuel  and  Ste- 
DowsE,  Joseph,  183,t  270,  307.  Forbush,  Jonathan  E.  270.         phen,  221. 
Note.— The  primary  paging  of  the  historical  part  is  here  resumed,  the  number  being 
added  of  the  pages  wlilch  have  intervened,  in  the  Genealogical  Register. 
 - 576 - 
GENERAL   INDEX.  507 
Haskell,  Kev.  John,  ~';i,        J  
efts,  Henry,  ll-~,  22,  4,  7,  Lowdon,  Ricliartl,  li; 
Hasskll,  Joseph,  138.     Rich-      31,  2,  4,  44,  59,  m,  68,  70,  4,  5,  Lykokd,  Rev.  Edward  T  '>70 
ard  and  Benjamin,  12t>.  96,   107,   110,  27,  .39,  85,  212,  Lynde,  Col.  Joseph,  1,32,'.3. 
Haven,  Rev.  Joseph,  271.  .33,  7.    Joanna,  127.    John,  Mace,  Joseph,  250. 
Hazex,   Hon.   Abraham    D.,     110,211.  Manly,  Francis  E.,  270. 
307.    Rev.  Henry  A.  258,  71.  Jefts'  Cove,  92.  Manning,  Benjamin,  2.50.  Eli- 
Healu,  Benjamin  H.,  .307.        Jenkins,  Thomas  J.,  307.  phalet,  221.    Ephraim,  201. 
Josiah,  225.  John,  (Indian),  05.  Isaac.  250.  Jacob,  242.  Jo~na- 
Henchman,  Col.  Thomas,  48,  Johnson,  Edward,  S,  Ifi,  42-9,  than,  101.  Joseph,  254.  Lu- 
99.  100,  6.  14,  18,  25,9,87,  90,  9.  82.  Elizabeth,  197.  John,  cinda.  101.  Saranel,  26,  7  37 
Henky,  John,  225.  90.     Mather,  196.     Obe,  194.      75,110,1,70,80,9-95,211,304] 
Herrick,  Zenas,  305.  Stephen,  75.    Thomas,  90.         7.  Theophilus,  281.  Thomas! 
HER.SEY,  Rev.  P.,  272.  Jones,  Anthony,  26,  ,58.  221.     William,  101,  .50,  .306. 
Hide,  Jonathan,  13,  26,  7,  110.      David,  183.t    Ephraim,  183. f  
Manning  Tavern,  134,  275. 
HiLDRETii,  James,  76.    Rich-     Isaac,  271.    Joseph,  256.         Mansfield,  George  E.,  276. 
ard,  9.  Judkins,  Benjamin  L.,  .307,  8.  Marks,  Mary,   126.      Roger, 
Hill,  Charles  H.,  281,  305.  Henry  B.,  303.  119. 
Daniel,  139,  212.    Ebenezer,  Kejip,  Samuel,  25,  8,  64,  5,  92,  Marland,  Abraham,  280. 
16.     Frederick  I*.  268.     Geo.      154,  85,  8.  MARSHALL,  Isaac,  300.  .lolin, 
AV.  308.    Job,  256.  .fohn,  97,  Kendall,  Jacob,  220.    Reu-     25,  6,  8,  31,  2,  6,  8,  44,  65,  92 
139,  42,  77,  t306.    Jonathan,      ben.  233,  300.  3,  111,  13,  26,  54,  85.     Thom- 
79,  110,  39,  70,  85,  90-4,  212,  KENT,  Rev.  Evarts,  271.  as,  221. 
42,  81,  305,  7.    Joseph,  101,  Keyes,  Solomon,  100,  41.  Marshall's  Lane,  92. 
212,  20,  5,  49,  303,  4,  0.    Na-  Kidder.  Amos,  223,  5.    Ben-  Martin,  Christopher,  .301. 
fhan'l,  91,  100,  10,  39,  65,  83,t     jamin,  220.    Dorothy,  27.       Mason,   Augustus,   304.    Da- 
><.5,  93,  4,  212,  305.     Paul,  155.      Enoch,  101,  72,  6,  211,  18,  29,      vid  L.,  .307.    Hugh,  117. 
Peter,  2.55,  306.    Ralph,   11,     304-(i.    Ephraim,  201,  12,  21,  Mass.  Hist.  Soc,  41. 
7,  9,  22-7,  31,  41,  4,  59,  62-9,      306.     Francis,  142.     James,  Massacres,  127,  9. 
71,  4,  5,  82,  8-91,  7,  8,  107,  10,      25-7,  31-40,  64,  7,  88-98,  110-  Mather,  Cotton,  126,  9,  .33,  74. 
11,  13,  21,  8,  .37,  9,  51,  5,  6,  68,     3,  85,  305.  John,  110,  223.  44.      Increase,  119. 
80,  5,  94.  8,  201,  8,  29,  30,  3,  6,      Jonathan,  255,  303.     Joseph,  Mears,  Nathan,  307. 
.52.92,301,  4,  5,  6.    Samuel,      138,  221,  303.    Samuel,  236,  Middlesex  Canal,  273.  Turn- 
212,  38,  .306.    Sylvester,  .305.     .306.    Thomas,  304,  6.    Wil-     pike.  274. 
William,  143.  liaui,  279,  .306.                           Mill  Swamp,  195. 
Hill's  Bridge,  101,  2.  Kin(;,  Samuel  H.,  271.               Millard,  Humphrey,  183.t 
Hinsdale,  Col.,  143.  Kinsley',  Samuel,  i5,  7,  33,  7,  Miller,  Rev.  John,  16,  70,  152. 
Hoar,  Hon.  E.  R.,  285.  58,  65,  90.                                   MILLS  and  Manufactures,  278- 
HOHBS,  John  C,  270,  307.  Kittredge,   Daniel,  201,  20,      82. 
HoLbEN,  Amasa,  307.    Dana,     21,  44,  300.    Ebenezer.  223.  Mineral  Company,  211. 
.305.  Francis,  221.    Jacob,  304.       Ministry"  lot,  215. 
HoLMAX,  Seeth,  1.30.  James,  218,  21.    John,  26,  8,  Mitchell,  Rev.  Jonathan,  12, 
HOLYOKE,  Pres.,  262.  38,  60,  2,  5,  6,  110,  39,  95,  221,      30,  41,  94,  160,  98.     Prof.  Mo- 
HOOD,  J.  W.,  304.  304.  Jonathan,  141.  Joseph,      ses  C,  2.58. 
Hooker,  Rev.  Thomas,  1,  2,     221,  .300.    Rufus.304.    Thos.  Monroe,  Aaron,  225.   George 
6,  161.  and  William,  221.                         A.,  .304.  Joseph,  223, 5.  Josh- 
FIOl'KlNS,  Richard,  222.  Kluht,  Rev.  Alfred,  299.              ua,  224,  5.     Nathan,  224,  5. 
Horns,  Jane,  300.  Knight,  Rev.  Benjamin,  270.  Montcalji,  145,  6,  50. 
HosLEY',  James,  178,  201.  Knowles,  .lohn,  305.                Morant,  296. 
HosMER,  Dr.  Charles  E.,  .304.  Land  Divisions,  31-41,  208-15.  More,  Golden,   14,  25-8,  31-5, 
Leander,  138.  Landers,  Rev.  L.  P.,  272.  66,  8,  94,  110,  55. 
Hough,  77,  9.  Lane,  Albert  C,  304.  Job,  28,  jMorkill,  Rev.  Mr.,  261. 
Houston,  Joseph,  2.54,  5.  41,  99,  111,  2,  4,  7,  39.  66,  7(i,  Nason,  Rev.  Elias,  92, 127,316. 
Howe,  Dr.  Zadok,  257,  8,  305.      95,  220,  304-6.    John,  38,  79,  Naticott  grant,  42-4,  317. 
HoM-E  School,  258.  100,  29,  35-42,  70,  2,  6,  7,  209,  Needha.m,  John,  117,  37,  9,  77. 
HUBBARD,  Thomas,  26,  7,  ;U,      11,  20,  64,  304,  5.     Mary,  1.38.      202,  12,  21,  .304,  6.     Wm.  306. 
7,  119.    William  H.,  304.         Laws,  AVilliam,  255.  Neil,  Robert  M.,  270. 
HUDSON,  Hon.  t'harles,  142.     Lawyers,  202.  Nelson,  Jeremiah,  138. 
HUNT.  Jeremiah,  221.    John,  Learned,  Isaac,  10,  11,  27.       Nichols,  Francis,  ISS.f 
137,9,221.   Joseph,  221.   Pe-  Levistone,   Alexander,  130.  NicKLES,  George,  224.  James, 
ler,   142,   221.     Samuel,  117,      John,  28,  128,  30,  212,  21.  225.  John,  236.    Joseph,  225. 
33,  4,  7,  9,  42,  76,  '206,  17,  20,      Margaret,  Mary  and  Sarah,  Nomphow.  John,  105,  23. 
1,  .55,  .306.  130.    Seth,  221.    Thos.,  130.  Nowell,  Increase,  5,  79. 
hunt's  Garrison,  132,  4.  Lewis,  Benjamin,  233,  7,  306.  Nutting's  pond,  64,  9,  317. 
HURT),  Isaac,  304.  James,  2i!4,  30.3-().  Oakes,  Edward  and  Thomas, 
HUSSEY,  Rev.  Christopher  C,  Lexington  road,  94.  9,  12,  41,  4,  94. 
269,  85.  LiBBY,  Mary  E.  A.,  .308.  Oakes  farm,  212. 
Hutchins,  Col.  Elisha,  81.       Libraries,  315,  16.  Odiorne,  William  H.  258,  .307. 
HUTCHINSON,  Nathaniel,  225.  Lincoln,  Rev.  Varnum,  272.    Osborn,  iMrs.,  173. 
Gov.  Thomas,  227.  Livermore,  Edward  L.,  257.  Osgood,  Benjamin,  143,  4.  9. 
Indian  Hill.  107,  317.  Nathaniel,  183.t  Christopher,  134.  27s,  9.  I>a- 
Tndian  names,  316.  Locke,  Joseph,  257,  303,  4.  vid,  300.    Elizabeth,  177. 
Indians,  103-47.  Loes  Plain,  33,  92,  4.  John,  75,  90.    Joseph,  225. 
Iron,  Edward,  58.  LoNtiLEY,  William,  129.  Stephen,  221. 
Jackson.  Edward,  17,  42.         Lord,  Rev.  John  M.,  271.  Packard,  Rev.  Hezekiah.  257. 
Thomas,  299.  Louisburg,  142.  PA(iE,  Christopher,  220.     Jas. 
Jaouith,  Abraham.  222.  Lovewell,  Capl.  John,  111.     37,  94.  Nathaniel,  139,  76,94, 
Franklin,    282,  5.  308.      Jo-      2.54.  5,  212,  19,  20. 
neph,  .307.     Ilmotliv,  256.        Low,  Joseph,  183.t  Paine,  Tlionias,  40. 
 - 577 - 
508                           HISTORY    OF    BILLEKICA. 
rAHKEi;,  Abraham,  7'.».     Ben-     .).  B.,  2r)7.  Jacob,  2:W,  :W4,  t>..STAKK\VKAT}iKU,  Kev.  John, 
jamin,  ()~,  185,  0,  L'12,  ::i4.  James,  llh;.  John,  307.  John     271. 
(Iku-:.  U.,  -iOS.     l>aniel,  303,     0.,2>i2.    Jonathan,!:!'.).   Jo-  Stkauns,  Edward,  21'.t,  36. 
4.  Frederic  A.,  303.     Gard-      seph,    143,   303.    Josiah,  7(>,      Isaac,13'.).79,:il2,  1'J,.306.  Rev. 
.     nor.  1 13,  258,  305,  7.     James,      25G.     Josiah  B.,  307.  Nath'l,      Jesse   (i.   D.,   2.58,    71,    305, 
10,  1,  7,  22-5,  '.)0,  i),  115,  53,  8,      177.    Oliver,  307.     Stephen,      lS4.t    John, 11,  7,  22-8,  31,  2, 
S7.     .lolin,  17,  22-8,  32,  7,  41-      137,9.     Tliomas.  27,  8,  41,  i)3,      44,  .W,  GO,  70,  1,  81),  117,  .39, 42, 
8,  50-2,  7-9,  62-71,  4,  8,  82,  8-      110,  39,  42,  93,  4,  9,  210,  2,  79,      C5,  70,  7,  201,  12,  55,  304-0. 
93,  8,  103,  53-5,  85,  6,  94,  212,      304,  7.     William,  307.  Josiali,  303.     \atlianiel,281. 
33,  6,  7,  78,   92,  301-G.     Jos.,  Ri(iHT.s;  acre-lots,  54,  208,  15.      Hon.OnsIow,285.  Kev.  Sam- 
89,  114.    Levi,  225,  50,    Mo-  KoADS  and  Bridges,  87-101.  uel,  257,  66,  7.    Sewall,  307. 
ses  (i.,  258.    Nathaniel,  225.  Roubins,  Jonas,  225.  Thomas,  200,  12.    Timothv, 
Robert,  17,  22,  4,  7,  31.  Sam-  Rogers,  Artemas,  303.    Dan-     303. 
nel,  263,  81.    Stephen,   250,      iel,  110,  17,  31.    David,  211.  Stkdman,  Jonathan,  264. 
63.     Stephen  H.,  284,  9.  Rev.  Ezekiel,  152.   John,  25,  Stki-hkns,  Joseph,  306.  Capt. 
Parius,  Robert,  138.  8,31-5,44,65,71,89,91,4,110,      Pliinehas.  143, 
PAssAfONAWAY,  104,  5.  28,  -30,  54,  66,  85,  97,  25().    Jo-  Stevens,  Henry,  143. 
I'ATi'.lisoN,  James,  25,  8,  .33,  ('),      siali,   .305,   7.     Micajah,   .303.  STEVENSON,  Andrew,  28. 
7,  56,  ()2,  5,  110-3,  7,  54,85,  97.      Nathaniel,   110,    17,   211,   21.  STEWART,  .lolin  C,  284. 
Patten,  Aaron  H.,  271,  81.  Sam'l,  202,  42,  78, 307.  Thom-  Stickney,  Abraham,  1.50, 221. 
Abel,  303.     Asa  J.,  284.  Jer-     as,  110,  28,  30, 1,  
93, 212.  Wil-     Dan'I,  225,  .33,.6,  7,  306.  Jon- 
emiah,  304,  7,   John,  221,  55.     liam,  256.    Zebadiah,  233.  athan,  234,  S,  9,  .306.    Wil- 
Keudall,   139,  78,  221.    Na-  Ross,  Margaret,  130.    Sarah,     liam,  140,  77,  227,  31,  3,  fi, 7, 
thaniel,  212,  21.      Thomas,      141.  Seth,  177.  Tliomas,  111,     303,4,6. 
25,  6,  62,  5,  110,  11,  13,  65,  85,     .30,  7,  9,  77,  212,  306.    Kev.  Stone,  Rev.  Livingston,  269. 
278.    William.  14,  22,  5,  31,  2,      William  M.,  272.  Stoughton,  Hon.  William, 
5,  7,  44,  94,  211,  45,  .50,  301,  6.  KutaiLES,  Benjamin,  254.   Jo-      132,  96. 
I'ATTENVILLE  road,  94.  seph,  279,  SO.    Kev.  Samuel,  Sumnek,  Tliomas,  305. 
I'AUGUs,  141.  163,  72-82,  201.  SWALLOW,  Jonatlian,  225. 
Peacock,  Samuel,  221,             Russell,  Rev.  Thos.  C,  270.    Sweet,  Rev.  Jolin  1).,  270. 
Pemberton,  Ebenezer,  257.    Sanders,  John,  183, t  212.         Sweetser,  Cornelius,  307. 
Periham,  Benoni,  1.39.              SARCiENT,  Kev.  Jedediah  W.,  Swine,  yoking,  06. 
Perky,  Obadiali,  126.                   270.  Taiiatawan,  John,  123. 
Persons,  Edward  H.,  285.        Satell,  Richard,  lS3.t  Talbot,  Charles  P.,  279,  81.. 
Peeters,  William,  134.              Scot,  Benjamin,  60.  Thomas,  258,  72,  9,  81,  5,  305. 
Pettes,  Rev.  Samuel,  269.        Seeks,  John,  8S.                         Talbot  Library,  316. 
Pettingell.  Walter  J.,  282.   Selectsien;  Instructions  to,  Tarbell,  David,  142.    Thorn- 
PiULiR's  War,  107-12.                   61;  list,  305,  7.  as,  139. 
I'livsiciANS,  302.  Sewall,  Judge,    136.     Rev.  Taverns,  188,  90,  275. 
I'lCKAKi),  John,  138.  Samuel,  257.    Stephen,  197.    Tax    Lists,  165,  93,  4,  203-7, 
Pollard,  Asa,  226,  38.    .Ion-  Shade  Trees,  (>7.  47-51. 
athan,  242.  Joseph,  140.  Sol-  Shattuck,  Mr.,  218,  20,  54.      Tay,  Grace,  27.    Nathaniel, 
onion,  230,  3,  4,  9.    Thomas,  Siiawshin  House,  6,  15,  18(>.        196.   WilHam,  25,  7,  .32-5,  55, 
92,  139,  40,  212.  SHED,  Agnes,  12S.    Mrs.  Ann,      65,  6,  9,  71,  93,  4,  6,   155,  66, 
Poe'LV,  James,  183.t  127,  8.    Benj,  175,  7,  201,  306.      85,  304,  5. 
Porter,  Rev.  E.  G.  292.  Daniel,  26,  8,  32,  7-58,  ()5,  70,  Temple,  Christopher,  126. 
PorULATloN,  3011,  10.  89,  110,  27,  8,  200,  51.     Han-      Rev.  J.  H.,  143,  4. 
Post  Offices  and  Masters,  307.     nah,   128,  31.    John.  110,  7,  Tewksbitry,  207,  20. 
J'ot  LTER,  .John,  25,  6,  32,  3,  5,      35,  70,  7,  212,  305.  Mary,  131.  TllOJil'SoN,  Dr.  A.  R.,  257. 
(i5,  90,  113,  22,  S5.  Nathan,  211,  21.     Ruth,  199.      Robert,  196. 
Pkescott,  Col.,  238.  Zachery,   127,  8,  212.     Wil-  Thurston,  Rev,  James,  269. 
Preston,  Geo.  H.,  303.    Mar-     Ham,  224,  Tompson,   Benjamin,   175,  7, 
shall,  257,  8,  69,  303-«.  .Sheldon,  John,  26.  .32,  5,  8,     304,  6.    .loseph,  26,  7,  .36,  9, 
I'ROCTOR,  Kev.  George,  272.         44,  90,  117,  76,  85,  95,  212,  305.      60,  74,  5,  9,  80,  100,  10,  11,  17, 
PULSIFER,  David,  156.  Samuel,  177,  .306.      William,      21,  6,  3(i,  70-2,  6,  99-9,  20fl,  12. 
Pi  TNAM,  Kev.  Benjamin,  270.      32,  58.  62,  9,  278.  .53,   4,   303-5.     William,    142, 
Israel,  212,  20,  .38.  Sherman,  John,  73,  84,  5,  Jo-     230-7,  41,  304,  6. 
I'VE,  Sir  John,  28.  seph,  76.  Tooth.\ker,  Margaret,  27. 
Railroads,  27.5-8.  Simon,  (Negro)  170,  l,  215.  130,1,97.    Roger,  26,  7,60, 
Kan  ALLS,  166.  Skilton,  John,  2.56.  Thomas,      71,  91,  110,  28,  .30,  1,  66,  85, 
Randall,  Rev.  Geo.  W.,  270.      303.  96,  7,  212,  41,  55,  304.    Timo- 
Rangeway  road,  214.  Slaves,  170, 309.  thy,  2.i8. 
Kanlett,  Capt.  Chas.  A.,  113,  Smith,  Coburn  S.,  307.    Jas.,  Torrev,  Rev.  Charles  C.  271. 
.276.  lN3.t     William,  254.  TOWN  Officers,  304-7. 
Rates,  basis  of,  55,  187.  Soldiers,  lists  of,  1.39,  47,  183,  Trull,  John,  27,  31,  65,  7, 110, 
Rawson,  Edward,  17.  243,  86.     Monument,  2.s4.  85.     Samuel,  91,  111,  66,  201, 
Records  of  the  Town,  51-3,  Sparhawk,  Edward,  260.  21. 
184,  216.  Sparvel-Baylv,   J.  A.,  297,  TltULL'S  Cove,  02. 
Reding,  Miles,  58.  9.  Trumbull,  Hon.  . I.  H.,  316. 
Reed,  Capt.  William,  177.         Spaulding,    Amos,    2.58,  70.  Tucker,  Samuel,  25S. 
Religious  History,    153,  83,      Asa,  225,  33,  306.    Benjamin  Tuft's  Lane,  92. 
260-72.  A.,  .303.     Edward,   139,  224,  Tuttle,  Calvin  G.,  2S5. 
Remkens,  .John,  11.  70,  307     Henry,   139.    Job,  The  Two  Brothers,  4. 
Revolution,  The,  226,  47.  224.    Jonathan,  225.    Leon-  TYN(i,  .lonsithau,  81,  100,  24,  5, 
Keyner,  liev.  John,  28.  ard,  224.  Thomas,  224,  305,  7.      35-s,  99. 
Kick,  Henry,  305,  7.  Si-een,  James,  (Indian)  195.     Tvthing^ien,  189. 
Rh'HARdson,  Andrew,  137,  9,  Spencer,  William,  3.  Usher,  Hezekiah,  304. 
77,  221,  306.    Ebene/er,  242,  Sprake,  Isaac,  101.  Nicholas,  Wab.vn,  Thomas,  123. 
66.    Francis,  257,  307.    Col.     279.  .  Wainwright,  Francis,  183.t 
 - 578 - 
GENERAL    INDEX.                                    509 
Waldron,  Richard,  125. 
Walker,  Benjamin,  130. 
Dudley,  305.     Jacob,  13'.>,  77, 
30K.     'Joseph,  15,  27.  05,  110, 
31,  68.  70,  05,  8,  0,  304,  5. 
Reuben,  143.  Hon.  Timoth)-, 
257. 
Wamesit  Precinct,  218.  Pur- 
chase, 217.  Reservation,  103. 
Road,  01 
Waxalanckt,  104-7,  17,  18, 
24. 
Warren, William  W.  315,  6. 
Warrick,  John,  (Indian), 
108. 
Wek,  Christopher,  28,  33,  60, 
5,  6,  04,  ,305.     .John,  00. 
Welch.  Thomas,  183. t 
Weld,  Rev.  Thomas,  5,  30,47, 
.50.  Farm,  48,  50,  79.  Gar- 
rison, 138. 
Westbrook,  Thomas,  141. 
Wheat,  Joseph,  275: 
Wheeler,  John,  76.  80. 
Thomas,  115.    Timothy,  83. 
Whipple,  Mathew,  28,  139. 
White,  Elizabeth,  182. 
WllITlNfi,  Augustus,  303. 
Mrs.  Elizabeth,  153,  60,  62. 
Rev.  .John,  136,  John,  l-.O, 
61,  72,  221,  303.  Rev.  Jose]  h, 
172,  303.  Oliver,  53,  7,  HI, 
26,  76,  201,  303-6.  Rev.  Sa  i- 
uel,  26,  31,  47,  56,  7,  65,  0-  I, 
110-4,  7,  20,  36,  ><,  53-74,  86,  2, 
263.     Samuel,  257,  304-7. 
AVhitjian,  Rev.  Bernard,  2.57. 
George  H.,  253,  303,  5.  Uev. 
Nathaniel,  257,  66-0. 
Whitmoke,  William  H.,  90. 
Whitney,  Job,  260. 
Whittemorr,  .lames,  308. 
Whitwell,  William,  260 
Wilde,  Rev.  Zeuas  P.,  270. 
WiLKlNS,  John,  218.  Nancy, 
261.  Timothy,  22.3.  Williaiii. 
263,  304. 
Willari),  .losiah,  143.  Rev. 
Samuel,  115.  Major  Simon, 
6.  16,  42,  3,  62,  3,  72,  6-0,  81, 
103,  11-5,  8,  20,  45. 
Williams,  Thomas,  loo. 
WiLLiCE,  George,  14.  26,  31, 
36.     Thomas,  27,   185.    Ste- 
ven, 185. 
Willow  Spang,  03, 
WiL.MINCiTON,  222. 
Wilson,  Daniel.  305,  7.  John, 
127,  68,  70,  08-9,  210,  18,  20, 
78,  304,  5. 
Wing,  Rev.  Otis,  270. 
Winning's  I'ond,  282,  317. 
Winthkop,  Gov.  .lohn,  1-5, 
12.  5,  30-41,  04.  190.  Mrs.,  5, 
7,  riO,  7,  67,  103,  4.  Fitz  .John, 
41,  00.  Stephen,  7.  Wait, 
124.  5. 
Winthkop  Farm,  28,  64,  212, 
10.  Mrs.  Winthrop's  farm, 
5,  216,  S,  20. 
Witchcraft,  196. 
WDliPRN,  82-6,  205.  7. 
Wkkjut,  Hon.  Carroll  D.  .309. 
Edward,  271. 
Wyatt,  George,  l8:',.t 
Wyman,  Amos,  2,56.     Francis 
and  John,  27,  41,  65,  6,  X2,  3, 
5.  8,  120.     Nathaniel,  236. 
Seth,  141. 
ADDENDA.     FINAL. 
Page  41.  The  last  juiragraph  but  one  ts  an  error.  Capt.  Gookin  re- 
ceived 50  
acres  we.<t  of  the  Wyni;in  and  Cliainpnej'  f;)rins  ;  Oakes  had  1.50 
acres,  (see  Land  Grants,  vol.  1.  p.  204).  which  probably  included  Bedford 
Springs. 
Page  40.  line  2,  read  Seaborn  not  Saloiiie. 
Page  93,  last  line  but  one.  for  •■  willow  .spangs,"  read  ••  willow's 
pangs." 
Page  121).  after  reference  "S."*  insert  "  Lai  a  Papers." 
Page  148.  Insert  a  *  after  Joseph  Harris.  He  died  al  Fort  Edwards, 
1758. 
Page  149.     Insert  a  *  after  Ephraiui  Kidder. 
Page  149.     Insert  Shed.  Xathaii.*     He  died  1750.  :May  24. 
G-'e».  J^e^.  page  12*.  Blancharh.  1.  John.  Susanna,  who  m.  J. 
Farwell.  Avas  not  his  sister. 
Gen.  Reg.  page  170.     Bennktt.     Foi-  •■  d  "'  read  "■  b." 
•'     •*      page  180.     Mann.  Sarah;  read  104. 
 - 579 - 
XoTK. —  1  
iuld  lu'i-e  the  suhstanco  of  a  note,  oniitted  l)v  oversight 
ill  a  more  .suitable  i)lace,  referring  to  certain  interesting  earlv  sur- 
veys of i)ortions  of  Billeriea. 
The  Massac-husetts  Historical  Society  has  a  survey  of  the  town, 
whicli  was  placed  in  its  archives  by  John  Farmer.  It  was  made  l)y 
.Fonathan  Danforth.  about  IGOO.  contains  no  highwavs  or  houses, 
luit  gives  streams,  and  a  few  of  the  larger  farm  lines.  This  is  the 
ancient  i)lan  referred  to  in  the  record  of  Jonathan  Danforth,  (page 
35.)  1 am  happy  to  here  to  recall  the  remark  there  made  as  to  its 
disappearance. 
Peter  K.  Vose,  Ks(i.,  of  Dennysville,  Me.,  has  kindly  furnished 
me  with  a  survey  of  Mr.  Daniel's  farms,  (the  Church  and  C'hamp- 
ney  farms),  \vhich  came  into  his  hands  from  the  Cooper  estate, 
Thomas  Cooper  having  been  attorney  of  Mr.  Daniel,  in  the  man- 
agement and  
sale  of  his  farms,  after  his  return  to  England  in  16S0. 
This  survey  is  of  nmch  interest,  and  shows  that  land  speculation  is 
not  modern.  I  propose  to  deposit  it  in  the  care  of  the  Historical 
Society.     A  good  copy  will  l)e  placed  in  the  Bennett  Library. 
Mr.  Merton  Simonds,  of  Bedford,  has  favored  me  with  the  use 
of  papers  from  the  estate  of  an  uncle,  who  was  a  surveyor.  Thev 
include  a  chait  of  Billerica,  drawn,  as  internal  evidence  shows, 
about  17G0,  which  gives  the  important  minor  farm  lines  in  the  Billei-- 
ica  portion  of  that  town.  This,  with  Mr.  Simonds'  approval,  will 
also  be  placed  iu  the  care  of  the  Historical  Society.  And  in  the  of- 
fice of  
the  Secretary  of  State  are  preserved  Danforth's  survey  of  the 
Natic^tt  grant  of  8000  acres  to  Billerica,  and  the  survey,  accomi)an- 
ying  flic  report  of  the  General  Court's  Committee  in  1701,  by  which 
the  controversy  with  Concord  and  Chelmsford  was  adjusted.  [See 
page  82.] 
 - 580 - 
 - 581 - 
 - 582 - 
 - 583 - 
 - 584 - 
 - 585 - 
 - 586 - 
 - 587 - 
LIBRARY  OF 
CONGRESS 
0  
014  077  139  9 
 - 588 - 
